Excision of limbal dermoids. We reviewed the clinical files of 10 patients who had undergone excision of unilateral epibulbar limbal dermoids. Preoperatively, all of the affected eyes had worse visual acuity (P less than .02) and more astigmatism (P less than .01) than the contralateral eyes. Postoperatively, every patient was cosmetically improved. Of the eight patients for whom both preoperative and postoperative visual acuity measurements had been obtained, in six it had changed minimally (less than or equal to 1 line), and in two it had improved (less than or equal to 2 lines). Surgical complications included persistent epithelial defects (40%) and peripheral corneal vascularization and opacity (70%). These complications do not outweigh the cosmetic and visual benefits of dermoid excision in selected patients. 
Bell's palsy. A diagnosis of exclusion. In cases of acute unilateral facial weakness, a careful and systematic evaluation is necessary to identify the cause. Idiopathic facial paralysis (Bell's palsy) is a diagnosis of exclusion. It is also the most common cause of unilateral facial weakness seen by primary care physicians. The most important aspect of initial treatment is eye protection. Administration of systemic oral corticosteroids may lessen severity and duration of symptoms. 
Retained endobronchial foreign body removal facilitated by steroid therapy of an obstructing, inflammatory polyp. Oral and topical steroids were used to induce regression in an inflammatory, obstructing endobronchial polyp caused by a retained foreign body. The FB (a peanut half), which had been present for over six months, was then able to be easily and bloodlessly retrieved with fiberoptic bronchoscopy. 
Recurrent buccal space abscesses: a complication of Crohn's disease. A patient is described with generalized gastrointestinal involvement by Crohn's disease. Symptoms of recurrent ulceration and mucosal tags are well-described oral manifestations of Crohn's disease; however, in our patient recurrent facial abscesses, which required extraoral drainage, also developed. This complication has not previously been reported. 
Intracranial fibromatosis. Fibromatoses are uncommon infiltrative lesions affecting musculoaponeurotic structures, most often of the limbs and trunk. Lesions involving the cranial cavity are rare and require the same aggressive surgical management as elsewhere in the body. This case illustrates their clinical and neuroradiological features and underscores the necessity for aggressive resection to avoid recurrence. The literature is reviewed. 
The effect of intrathecal morphine on somatosensory evoked potentials in awake humans. Although the effect of systemic opioids on somatosensory evoked potentials has been well described, little is known about the interaction between intrathecally administered opioid analgesics and somatosensory evoked potentials. Accordingly, the influence of intrathecally administered morphine on posterior tibial nerve somatosensory cortical evoked potentials (PTSCEPs) was investigated in 22 unpremedicated, awake, neurologically normal patients scheduled to undergo elective abdominal or pelvic procedures. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either preservation-free intrathecal morphine sulfate (ITMS) or placebo. After baseline PTSCEP, heart rate and, mean blood pressure were recorded, ITMS (15 micrograms.kg-1) was injected via standard dural puncture with the patient in the lateral position. PTSCEPs, heart rate, and mean blood pressure were recorded again at 5, 10, 20, 30, 60, 90, and 120 min. Control patients were treated identically (including position, sterile preparation, and subcutaneous tissue infiltration with local anesthetic), except for lumbar puncture, and were unaware of their randomization. Before administration of ITMS, PTSCEP P1, N1, P2, N2, and P3 latencies were 39.4 +/- 3.2, 47.6 +/- 3.9, 59.2 +/- 3.2, 70.4 +/- 3.7, and 84.6 +/- 5.5 ms, (mean +/- standard deviation), respectively. The corresponding P1-N1, N1-P2, and P2-N2 amplitudes were 2.4 +/- 1.1, 2.4 +/- 1.1, and 2.3 +/- 0.9 microV, respectively. There were no significant changes over time between the control and ITMS groups. PTSCEPs resulting from left-sided stimulation were not different from those elicited by right-sided stimulation. All ITMS patients had intense postoperative analgesia for at least 24 h. It is concluded that ITMS does not affect PTSCEP waveforms in the 35-90 ms latency range during the awake state. 
The 29th Rovenstine lecture: clinical challenges for the anesthesiologist. In conclusion, I hope that my comments have reaffirmed your biases or, even more importantly, stimulated you to think in a different way about the information explosion in our specialty and medicine in general. I believe our specialty is in a golden era that will benefit from the past and be nourished by new discoveries and understanding. We as clinicians must accept the challenge of recognizing what new information deserves incorporation into our practice, what old information deserves to be sustained, and what merits new scrutiny and perhaps should be discarded. If I had one wish, it would be that anesthesiologists would never lose their zeal to be students--their thirst for new information--as the continuum of anesthesia education is indeed a life-long process. That wish, ladies and gentlemen, is my challenge to all anesthesiologists. 
Mortality in patients treated with flecainide and encainide for supraventricular arrhythmias. In a recent clinical trial, the class Ic antiarrhythmic drugs encainide and flecainide were found to be associated with an increased mortality risk in patients with new myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias. The purpose of this study was to assess whether an increased mortality risk also accompanied the use of these drugs to treat patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. Data were obtained from the respective pharmaceutical sponsors on the mortality observed with each drug in United States and foreign protocols enrolling patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. Mortality in the encainide population (343 patients) and the flecainide population (236 patients) was compared with that in a research arrhythmia clinic, the Duke population (154 patients). Nine deaths occurred in the combined encainide-flecainide population and 10 deaths occurred in the Duke population; the follow-up periods averaged 488 days and 1,285 days, respectively. The 6-year survival functions of these 2 populations, estimated by the Kaplan-Meier technique, did not differ significantly (p = 0.62). The hazard ratio for the combined encainide-flecainide population relative to the Duke population was estimated to be 0.6 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.2, 1.7. These descriptive comparisons did not demonstrate any excess mortality when flecainide and encainide were used in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. 
Approaches to immunotherapy of cancer: characterization of lymphokines as second signals for cytotoxic T-cell generation. Lymphokines, the soluble molecules produced by cells of the immune system, regulate cell-cell interactions and, consequently, the functional status of the immune system. Altering immunoregulatory pathways with lymphokines in vivo may provide a mechanism for controlling a variety of immunologic disorders. Although normally produced in vivo in very small quantities, the widespread availability of recombinant lymphokines has made it possible to study the molecular signals involved in production of lymphocyte effectors with activity against tumor. For example, interleukin-2-based cancer immunotherapy programs have, in certain clinical situations, suggested that immunologic intervention can influence the regression of metastatic cancer. Ultimately the successful application of these biologic agents requires an understanding of the interaction between the immune system and tumor on a molecular level. To induce a given biologic effect, it is necessary both to classify the required lymphokines and to identify the relevant effector cell populations. This review will examine the progress made in identifying the requirements for lymphokine-induced cytotoxic T-lymphocyte function. 
Retinal artery obstruction and atheromas associated with non-Hodgkin's large cell lymphoma (reticulum cell sarcoma). A 71-year-old woman developed branch retinal artery obstruction as the presenting manifestation of a large cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Multifocal chorioretinal scars were present in the same eye. She experienced progressive visual loss accompanied by development of multiple yellow retinal arterial wall plaques, extension of retinal opacification into other quadrants, and increasing vitreous cellular infiltration. Clinical diagnoses included branch retinal arterial obstruction caused by toxoplasmosis retinitis, multifocal choroiditis and panuveitis simulating the presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome, vitiliginous chorioretinitis, and the acute retinal necrosis syndrome. Four months after onset, the right eye was blind and was enucleated. Histopathologic examination revealed extensive lymphomatous infiltration and necrosis of the retina and optic nerve. The retinal arteries were partly obstructed by lymphomatous infiltration and atheromas. Subsequently, the left eye and central nervous system were involved by lymphoma. 
The 'tonic' pain-related behaviour seen in mononeuropathic rats is modulated by morphine and naloxone. This study investigated the sensitivity to pharmacological manipulations of a rating method, adapted from the formalin test, to measure the tonic component of the pain-related behaviour induced by creating a peripheral mononeuropathy with 4 loose ligatures around the common sciatic nerve. Although the adequacy of opioid substances in alleviating neuropathic pain is highly controversial, the effects of morphine (1 mg/kg i.v.) and naloxone (1 mg/and 3 micrograms/kg i.v.) were tested 1-2 weeks after the nerve ligatures were established, when pain-related behaviours were well developed. Morphine (1 mg/kg i.v.) induced a potent and prolonged decrease in the pain-rating score at week 2 after surgery. Either at week 1 or week 2, naloxone elicited a bidirectional dose-dependent action: a further increase in the pain-rating score with the high dose (1 mg/kg i.v.), and a paradoxical decrease in the score with the low dose of 3 micrograms/kg i.v. These effects are comparable to those already described in several rat models of inflammatory pain and, in the same model of neuropathy, using a phasic nociceptive test, the measure of the vocalization to paw pressure. A few differences in the effects of naloxone on tonic and phasic pain are noted and discussed. 
Examination of cardiorespiratory changes during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Comparison of monitoring of arterial oxygen saturation, arterial pressure and the electrocardiogram. Critical events including hypoxaemia, arrhythmias and myocardial ischaemia may occur more frequently during endoscopic procedures than during anaesthesia. A study was undertaken to assess the cardiovascular changes and to evaluate suitable monitoring techniques to detect critical events during sedation and endoscopy. Twenty patients scheduled to undergo a prolonged endoscopic procedure which required deep sedation were studied. Continuous recordings of electrocardiogram, heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation were made and arterial pressure was recorded at one-minute intervals. The study commenced immediately before administration of sedatives, continued for the duration of the examination and for one hour following the examination. Oxygen saturation decreased in all patients during the examination to a mean of 82.9% (SD 11.9), and remained below baseline for the duration of the examination and into the recovery period. Statistically significant increases and reductions of systolic arterial pressure and rate-pressure product were found during the procedures compared with baseline values recorded before administration of sedatives. Sixteen of the 20 patients developed tachycardia during the examination. Ten patients developed ectopic foci which were supraventricular, ventricular or both in origin. Electrocardiogram changes resolved during the recovery period. Myocardial ischaemia was assessed by S-T segment depression and a significant correlation was found between S-T segment depression and hypoxaemia, although the magnitude of the S-T depression was small and may not have been detected clinically. No correlation was found between S-T segment depression and arterial pressure, heart rate or rate-pressure product. 
Hepatic transmethylation and blood alcohol levels. Golden Syrian hamsters that have elevated hepatic alcohol dehydrogenase activity were divided into four groups and group-fed on four different liquid diets for five weeks. Group I was fed a control diet formulated for hamsters. Group II was fed the control diet containing 20 micrograms of 4 methylpyrazole per litre. Group III was fed the hamster ethanol liquid diet (ethanol amounting to 36% of total calories). Group IV was fed the ethanol diet to which 4-methylpyrazole (20 micrograms/litre) was added. Groups I, II and III were group-fed the amount consumed by Group IV on a daily basis. Upon killing the animals, blood alcohol levels were found to be elevated in Group IV but not in Group III. Hepatic methionine synthetase (MS) was inhibited in Group IV. Betaine-homocysteine methyltransferase was induced in this group to compensate for the MS inhibition and liver betaine was lowered reflecting this induction. None of these changes were seen in Group III. Since none of the animals showed an aversion to their respective diets and gained weight normally, these data indicate that it was the elevated blood levels of ethanol rather than nutritional factors that were related to the changes in methionine metabolism. 
Memory T cells represent the predominant lymphocyte subset in acute and chronic liver inflammation. T cells can be divided into two main phenotypic subpopulations-i.e., the CD45RA-positive (2H4-positive) "naive" subset and the CD45RO-positive (UCHL1-positive) "memory" subset. In light of this recent functional reinterpretation of T-lymphocyte subpopulations, we reinvestigated the composition of the inflammatory infiltrate in liver biopsy specimens from patients with acute and chronic hepatitis. In normal liver, the few scattered mononuclear cells present in portal tracts and in the intralobular parenchyma consisted of both CD45RA-positive (2H4-positive) naive and CD45RO-positive (UCHL1-positive) memory T cells. In inflammatory liver diseases, portal tract and periportal and intralobular areas of inflammation consisted virtually only of CD45RO-positive (UCHL1-positive) memory T cells, which strongly expressed the CDw29 (4B4) antigen, and the adhesion molecules LFA-1, CD2, LFA-3, CD44 and VLA-4 and the activation marker human leukocyte antigen-DR. These results indicate that activated memory T cells represent the predominant subpopulation of lymphocytes in areas of liver inflammation. Memory T cells strongly express various homing receptors and adhesion molecules, which probably allow them to accumulate at inflammatory sites and to strengthen interaction with target cells. Furthermore, the increased number of memory T cells with enhanced interferon-gamma production in areas of liver inflammation may contribute to the maintenance and up-regulation of immune responses occurring in inflammatory liver diseases. 
Inflammatory properties of neutrophil-activating protein-1/interleukin 8 (NAP-1/IL-8) in human skin: a light- and electronmicroscopic study. Neutrophil-activating protein-1/interleukin 8 (NAP-1/IL-8), purified to homogeneity from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human peripheral blood monocytes, was injected intracutaneously into human skin. Sequential biopsy specimens were taken in order to investigate the sequence of ultrastructural changes induced by the cytokine. Whereas intracutaneous injection of 100 ng of NAP-1/IL-8 per site caused no macroscopic changes, by histology infiltration with polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and monocytes was present within 1 h and increased at 3 and 5 h. No lymphocyte infiltration was noted. The first ultrastructural changes (30 min) consisted of the presence of cytoplasmic 7-nm microfilament bundles, as well as numerous protrusions of the luminal plasma membrane of endothelial cells (EC). As a striking feature, multiple 100- to 160-nm electron lucent vesicles could be observed in the EC cytoplasm. These structures differed from plasmalemmal vesicles and suggest secretory activity. When PMN and monocytes appeared in the vascular lumen (1 h and later), the number of 100-160-nm electron-lucent vesicles had decreased significantly. In contrast to C5a-injected skin sites, mast cell degranulation was absent. 
Bronchogenic carcinoma with chest wall invasion. Bronchogenic carcinoma with chest wall involvement continues to present a major clinical challenge. We have treated 52 patients since 1973, excluding those with superior sulcus tumors. There were 37 male and 15 female patients with an average age of 62.9 years. Chest pain was an initial symptom in 37%. All patients had negative mediastinoscopy results. Squamous cell carcinoma was present in 53% and adenocarcinoma in 35%. The median number of ribs resected was two (range, one to six), and only 2 patients required chest wall reconstruction. Pathologic staging was T3 N0 M0 in 83% and T3 N1 M0 in 17%. Operative mortality was 3.8%. Absolute 5-year survival was 26.3%. Patients who had N1 disease had a 5-year survival of only 11%. Radiation therapy was employed in 46% for positive nodes or close margins. Bronchogenic carcinoma with chest wall invasion remains potentially curable if N2 nodes are not involved. The role of radiation therapy has not been clearly defined. Morbidity and mortality should be minimal. 
Electronic weaponry--a question of safety [published erratum appears in Ann Emerg Med 1991 Sep;20(9):1031] Electronic weapons represent a new class of weapon available to law enforcement and the lay public. Although these weapons have been available for several years, there is inadequate research to document their safety or efficacy. Two of the most common, the TASER and the stun gun, are reviewed. The electronic weapon was initially and still is approved by the US Consumer Product Safety Commission; its approval was based on theoretical calculations of the physical effects of damped sinusoidal pulses, not on the basis of animal or human studies. These devices are widely available and heavily promoted, despite limited research into their safety or efficiency and despite recent animal studies documenting their potential for lethality. 
Operative management of acoustic neuromas: the priority of neurologic function over complete resection. The objective of surgical management of acoustic tumors is to remove them entirely and preserve facial nerve function and hearing when possible. A dilemma arises when it is not possible to remove the entire tumor without incurring additional neurologic deficits. Twenty patients who underwent intentional incomplete surgical removal of an acoustic neuroma to avoid further neurologic deficit were retrospectively reviewed. They were divided into a subtotal group (resection of less than 95% of tumor) and a near-total group (resection of 95% or more of tumor) and were followed yearly with either computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The subtotal group was planned and consisted of elderly patients (mean age, 68.5 years) with large tumors (mean, 3.1 cm). The near-total group consisted of younger patients (mean age, 45.8 years) and smaller tumors (mean, 2.3 cm). The mean length of followup for all patients was 5.0 years. Ninety percent of patients had House grade I or II facial function post-operatively. Radiologically detectable tumor regrowth occurred in only one patient, who was in the subtotal resection group. Near-total resection of acoustic tumor was not associated with radiologic evidence of regrowth of tumor for the period of observation. Within the limits of the follow-up period of this study, subtotal resection of acoustic neuroma in elderly patients was not associated with clinically significant recurrence in most patients and produced highly satisfactory rates of facial preservation with low surgical morbidity. 
Torsades de pointes occurring in association with terfenadine use. Torsades de pointes is a form of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although found in many clinical settings, torsades de pointes is most often drug induced. This report describes the first association (exclusive of drug overdose) of symptomatic torsades de pointes occurring with the use of terfenadine in a patient who was taking the recommended prescribed dose of this drug in addition to cefaclor, ketoconazole, and medroxyprogesterone. Measured serum concentrations of terfenadine and its main metabolite showed excessive levels of parent terfenadine and proportionately reduced concentrations of metabolite, suggesting inhibition of terfenadine metabolism. We believe that a drug interaction between terfenadine and ketoconazole resulted in the elevated terfenadine levels in plasma and in the cardiotoxicity previously seen only in cases of terfenadine overdose. 
Asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses are more prevalent among patients with unsuspected renal artery stenoses. The prevalence of unsuspected renal artery stenosis among patients with peripheral vascular disease has been reported to be as high as 40%, but the prevalence of asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses in these patients is not known. The biplane aortograms of 205 male patients who were military veterans and had aneurysms or occlusive disease were independently reviewed, and medical records were studied to determine associated coronary disease, risk factors, and patient outcome. Fifty-six patients (27%) had a 50% or greater stenosis in the celiac or superior mesenteric artery, and seven patients (3.4%) had significant stenoses in both mesenteric arteries. Patients with celiac or superior mesenteric artery stenoses were older (p = 0.002) and had a higher prevalence of hypertension (p = 0.029) than those without significant mesenteric stenoses. Fifty of the 205 patients had significant renal artery stenoses, and 20 had advanced (greater than 75% diameter loss) renal stenoses. Ten of the 20 patients (50%) with advanced renal stenoses had a concomitant celiac artery stenosis, compared to 40 of the 185 patients (22%) who did not have advanced renal stenoses (p = 0.011). In the present study asymptomatic celiac or superior mesenteric artery stenoses were common among male veterans evaluated for peripheral vascular disease, but the prevalence of significant stenoses in both the celiac and superior mesenteric arteries was low. The prevalence of significant celiac stenosis was higher in patients with advanced (greater than 75%) renal artery stenoses who might be considered for prophylactic renal revascularization. Lateral aortography with evaluation of the celiac artery is always appropriate in these patients. 
Brain-stem auditory evoked responses in 56 patients with acoustic neurinoma. The brain-stem auditory evoked responses (BAER's) recorded from 56 patients with acoustic neurinomas were analyzed. Ten of the patients had intracanalicular tumors and 46 had extracanalicular tumors. It was possible to obtain BAER's following stimulation of the affected side in 28 patients and after stimulation of the unaffected side in all 56. Five patients (11%) had normal BAER's following stimulation of both sides; three of these patients had intracanalicular tumors. Among BAER's obtained following stimulation of the affected ear, the mean interpeak latency (IPL) for peaks I to III associated with extracanalicular tumors was significantly prolonged relative to controls (p less than 0.001), and linear regression analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between tumor size and IPL of peaks I to III (p less than 0.05). Analysis of the 56 BAER's recorded after stimulation of the unaffected side revealed a significant positive correlation between the IPL's of peaks III to V and tumor size (p less than 0.001). This correlation was not strengthened when accounting for the degree of brain-stem compression. Finally, evidence of preserved function within the auditory pathway, even in the presence of partial hearing loss, is presented. This finding suggests that more patients might benefit from surgical procedures that spare the eighth cranial nerve. 
First heterotransplantation of a human carcinoid tumor into nude mice. The first successful heterotransplantation of a human carcinoid tumor into nude mice is reported. CSH, a voluminous hepatic metastasis of a primary bronchial carcinoid tumor (CSB) was resected and transplanted into three irradiated nude (Swiss-nu/nu) mice both by subcutaneous (SC) and intramuscular (IM) routes; the success rate was five of six. Heterotransplanted tumors took 4 to 5 months to appear in the mice and 1 month to attain a width of 0.5 cm. Both human and mouse tumors (named CSH-SC and CSH-IM) were studied by light and electron microscopy. They were Grimelius-positive, neuron-specific enolase-positive, and bombesin-negative by immunocytochemistry. Furthermore, CSH-SC cells presented characteristic (pear-shaped, rod-shaped, or tadpole-shaped) neurosecretory granules. Although CSB and CSH were slightly serotonin positive by immunocytochemistry, only a few serotonin-positive cells were found in CSH-SC and none in CSH-IM, suggesting partial loss of differentiation or an increase in serotonin catabolism during transplantation. 
A prospective evaluation of the immediate reproducibility of the signal-averaged ECG. The purpose of this investigation was to prospectively evaluate the immediate reproducibility of the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG). A total of 114 patients undergoing evaluation for ventricular arrhythmias were enrolled in this protocol. Two consecutive SAECG's (40 Hz bidirectional high-pass filtering with a computer-automated system) were performed 10 minutes apart. Abnormal SAECG parameters were defined as (1) vector QRS duration more than 120 msec, (2) terminal root mean square (RMS) voltage less than 20 microV, and (3) low-amplitude signal (LAS) duration more than 40 msec. An SAECG was defined as abnormal if at least one vector parameter was abnormal. There was close correlation between vector parameters during the two SAECG observations: QRS duration had the highest reproducibility (r2 = 0.97, p less than 0.001) followed by terminal RMS voltage (r2 = 0.92, p less than 0.001), and LAS duration (r2 = 0.90, p less than 0.001). The mean (+/- SD) percentage of change between the two recordings was 2% +/- 2% of the QRS duration, 13% +/- 22% for terminal RMS voltage, and 7% +/- 11% for LAS duration. The reproducibility of an initially normal SAECG was 92% and of an initially abnormal SAECG, 96%. Seventeen patients (15%) had a change in one of the three vector parameters between the two recordings. There were no clinically significant differences between the 17 patients in whom the SAECG was nonreproducible and the 97 patients in whom the SAECG was reproducible. However, reproducibility was significantly higher in patients with an initially normal versus an initially abnormal SAECG (92% vs 76%, p = 0.03). 
Hypertension, lipoprotein(a), and apolipoprotein A-I as risk factors for stroke in the Chinese. We analyzed the serum concentrations of lipids and lipoproteins and the prevalence of other risk factors in a case-control study of 304 consecutive Chinese patients with acute stroke (classified as cerebral infarction, lacunar infarction, or intracerebral hemorrhage) and 304 age- and sex-matched controls. For all strokes we identified the following risk factors: a history of ischemic heart disease, diabetes mellitus, or hypertension; the presence of atrial fibrillation or left ventricular hypertrophy; a glycosylated hemoglobin A1 concentration of greater than 9.1%; a fasting plasma glucose concentration 3 months after stroke of greater than 6.0 mmol/l; a serum triglyceride concentration 3 months after stroke of greater than 2.1 mmol/l; and a serum lipoprotein(a) concentration of greater than 29.2 mg/dl. We found the following protective factors: a serum high density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentration of greater than 1.59 mmol/l and a serum apolipoprotein A-I concentration of greater than or equal to 106 mg/dl. The patterns of risk factors differed among the three stroke subtypes. When significant risk factors were entered into a multiple logistic regression model, we found a history of hypertension, a high serum lipoprotein(a) concentration, and a low apolipoprotein A-I concentration to be independent risk factors for all strokes. The attributable risk for hypertension was estimated to be 24% in patients aged greater than or equal to 60 years. In this population, in which cerebrovascular diseases are the third commonest cause of mortality, identification of risk factors will allow further studies in risk factor modification for the prevention of stroke. 
Prevalence of air bronchograms in small peripheral carcinomas of the lung on thin-section CT: comparison with benign tumors. Despite improved techniques--such as bronchoscopy and percutaneous needle biopsy--to evaluate pulmonary nodules, there are still many cases in which surgical resection is necessary before carcinoma can be differentiated from benign lesions. The present study was undertaken to determine if the presence of an air bronchogram or air bronchiologram (patent visible bronchus or bronchiole) is useful in distinguishing small lung cancers from benign nodules. Thin-section chest CT scans were obtained in patients with 20 peripheral lung cancers less than 2 cm in diameter (18 adenocarcinomas, one squamous cell carcinoma, and one large cell carcinoma) and 20 small benign nodules (eight hamartomas, seven tuberculomas, two foci of aspergillosis, one focus of cryptococcosis, one chronic focal interstitial pneumonitis, and one plasma cell granuloma). The images were compared with regard to the patency of any bronchus or bronchiole within the lesions. After surgical resection, the specimens were inflated with agar and sectioned transversely to correlate gross morphology and low-power histologic sections with the CT appearance. An air bronchogram or air bronchiologram was seen in the tumors on 65% of CT scans and 70% of histologic sections. Benign nodules had a patent bronchus or bronchiole on CT scans and histologic sections in only one case (5%). These findings suggest that the presence of an air bronchogram in a lung nodule is a useful finding to help differentiate adenocarcinomas from benign lesions. 
Long-term spinal administration of morphine in cancer and non-cancer pain: a retrospective study. Records of 313 patients who had been treated with spinal morphine via an implanted Port-A-Cath were reviewed. In 284 cases the Port-A-Cath was implanted for epidural delivery of morphine in patients with cancer-related pain. These patients were treated for a mean of 96 (range 1-1215) days. There was a wide variation in dose requirements, minimum daily dose ranging from 0.5 to 200 mg and maximum daily dose from 1 to 3072 mg. However, there was no clear trend to increasing dose as period of epidural morphine administration increased. The most frequent complications were pain on injection (12.0% incidence), occlusion of the portal system (10.9%), infection (8.1%) and leakage of administered morphine such that it did not all reach the epidural space (2.1%). In all but 1 case infections were limited to the area around the portal or along the catheter track. All infections resolved without sequelae following removal of the portal and/or administration of antibiotics. In 17 patients Port-A-Caths were implanted for the intrathecal delivery of morphine to control cancer-related pain. These patients also exhibited wide variations in morphine dose requirements. Port-A-Caths were also implanted for delivery of spinal morphine in 12 patients with chronic pain which was not related to cancer and which failed to respond to other therapies. These patients were treated for a mean of 155 (range 2-575) days. Port-A-Caths were removed from 7 of these patients, primarily due to infection (2 cases) and inadequate pain relief and pain on injection (2 cases). 
Real-time ultrasound for the detection of deep venous thrombosis. PURPOSE: Accurate diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a clinical problem in emergency practice. A prospective trial was conducted comparing real-time ultrasound with contrast venography in the diagnosis of proximal DVT. METHODS: Seventy patients whose clinical presentations mandated diagnostic evaluation for DVT had real-time ultrasound of the involved leg followed by contrast venography. Initial readings of ultrasound and venography were compared with each other and with final readings to assess reliability of interpretation. RESULTS: Final ultrasound readings agreed with final venogram readings in all patients. Negative initial ultrasound readings agreed with final venogram readings in 56 of 56 patients (negative predictive value, 100%; 95% confidence interval, 94 to 100). Eighteen patients had positive initial ultrasound readings compared with 14 who had positive final venogram readings (positive predictive value, 78%; 95% confidence interval, 55 to 91). CONCLUSION: Negative real-time ultrasonography reliably excludes proximal DVT. Positive ultrasound reliably diagnoses proximal DVT only in experienced hands. 
Single- versus dual-chamber sensor-driven pacing: comparison of cardiac outputs. Previous studies have shown that single-chamber sensor-driven pacing improves exercise tolerance for patients with chronotropic incompetence. However, long-term single-chamber pacing has a number of inherent problems that limit its usefulness. Although sensor-driven dual-chamber pacing largely obviates the problems inherent with single-chamber sensor-driven pacing, the physiologic benefit of dual-chamber sensor-driven pacing has not yet been demonstrated. Accordingly, the purpose of this study was to compare exercise-induced cardiac output for patients with chronotropic incompetence, after programming their pacemakers to either a simulated sensor-driven single or simulated dual-chamber mode. Cardiac output was measured noninvasively at rest and peak exercise using standard Doppler-derived measurements, obtained in a blinded fashion. At rest the Doppler-derived resting VVI and DDD cardiac outputs were 4.49 +/- 0.3 L/min and 4.68 +/- 0.3 L/min, respectively. At peak exercise, the DDD cardiac output was 5.07 +/- 0.5 L/min, whereas the simulated activity VVI and DDD cardiac outputs were 6.33 +/- 0.6 L/min and 7.41 +/- 0.70 L/min, respectively. Analysis of variance showed that there was an overall significant difference in cardiac output from rest to peak exercise (p less than 0.001). However, only the simulated activity DDD cardiac output was significantly different from its respective control value (p less than 0.05). Thus this study shows for the first time that the addition of rate responsiveness to dual-chamber pacing results in a significant improvement in cardiac output for patients with chronotropic incompetence. 
FDP D-dimer induces the secretion of interleukin-1, urokinase-type plasminogen activator, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 in a human promonocytic leukemia cell line. We studied the effect of fibrinogen degradation products D, E, and D-dimer on a human promonocytic leukemia cell line, NOMO-1. After exposure to a 10(-5)-mol/L fragment D or D-dimer, the cells displayed macrophage-like characteristics, such as adherence to plastic surfaces, and showed approximately a twofold increase in response to the nitroblue tetrazolium reduction test. The secretion of interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) into the medium was markedly stimulated by a 10(-5)-mol/L fragment D, E, and D-dimer, whereas a significant increase in IL-1 beta secretion was observed only in D-dimer-stimulated cells. In addition, D-dimer induced a rapid increase in urokinase-type plasminogen activator on day 1 (0.52 +/- 0.02 ng/mL v 0.07 +/- 0.01 ng/mL in the control culture) and a slow increase in plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 on day 5 (3.9 +/- 1.6 ng/mL v 1.2 +/- 0.2 ng/mL in the control culture). An increase in tissue factor (TF) was also demonstrated on the cell surface of NOMO-1 cells exposed to fragment D or D-dimer by indirect immunofluorescence using an anti-TF monoclonal antibody. Scatchard plot analysis showed that fragment D and D-dimer bound to the NOMO-1 cells with a kd of 3.3 nmol/L and 2.7 nmol/L, respectively. These results suggest that fragment D-dimer specifically stimulates cells of monocyte-macrophage lineage to secrete key substances that regulate blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and inflammation. 
Stereotactic management of colloid cysts: factors predicting success. Stereotactic aspiration is a valuable surgical alternative for colloid cysts when used alone or in conjunction with microsurgical resection. Since 1981, the authors have performed computerized tomography (CT)-guided stereotactic aspiration as the initial procedure in 22 patients with colloid cysts; stereotactic aspiration alone was successful in 11 patients (50%). Of the 11 patients in whom aspiration failed, stereotactic endoscopic resection was attempted in three and was successful in one. Seven patients required a craniotomy and microsurgical removal of the cyst performed via a transcortical approach. The preoperative CT appearance in eight cases of a hypodense or isodense cyst correlated favorably with successful aspiration of the cyst in six patients. A hyperdense appearance on the preoperative CT scan in 14 cases was associated with subtotal aspiration in 13 patients; five required craniotomy for removal. Preoperative magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in eight patients provided excellent anatomical definition of the cyst and its relationship to other structures of the third ventricle, but it was not possible to correlate successful aspiration with cyst appearance on MR images with short or long relaxation time sequences. The authors' 9-year experience suggests that preoperative CT studies accurately determine size, predict viscosity, and help to define a group of colloid cyst patients for whom stereotactic cyst aspiration will likely be successful. Unsuccessful stereotactic aspiration was related to two features: the high viscosity of the intracystic colloid material (nine patients), or deviation of the cyst away from the aspiration needle due to small cyst volume (two patients). Because of its simplicity and low risk, stereotactic surgery can be offered to selected patients as the initial procedure of choice. Craniotomy can be reserved for those whose imaging studies predict failure or for those whose cyst cannot be aspirated. 
Cranial magnetic resonance imaging in chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy. Twenty one patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and five patients with chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with benign monoclonal paraproteinaemia none of whom had signs or symptoms of central nervous system disease, had cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on a 1.5 Tesla unit. Areas of increased white matter signal intensity were seen in one of 10 patients aged less than 50 years and in five of 16 patients aged more than 50 years. In only two of the patients (8%), neither of whom had paraproteinaemia, did the appearance strongly suggest demyelination. The only clinical variable that predicted MRI changes was age (p less than 0.01). 
Bleeding patterns during continuous combined estrogen-progestogen therapy. Bleeding and climacteric symptoms were recorded in two groups of postmenopausal women receiving either continuous combined estradiol and norethisterone acetate or estradiol and cyproterone acetate. Out of a sample of 99 postmenopausal women aged 45 to 54 years, 86 completed a 2-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Comparison of the bleeding patterns in the two groups revealed a statistically significant difference: More women in the estradiol-cyproterone acetate group experienced bleeding and for a longer duration. Thirteen women in the estradiol-norethisterone acetate group were amenorrheic, compared with two in the other group. The Kupperman index score in both groups declined to about 30% to 40% of initial values (p less than 0.001). The hot flushes in both treatment groups decreased to a highly significant degree (p less than 0.001), to a value below 20% of baseline values. We conclude that a continuous combination of estrogen and progestogen can produce amenorrhea and symptomatic relief. However, the progestogen components seem to differ in their ability to control bleeding. 
Impaired hepatic handling and processing of lysophosphatidylcholine in rats with liver cirrhosis. Lysophosphatidylcholine is a major metabolic product in the plasma and cellular turnover of phospholipids, with well-known membrane-toxic and proinflammatory properties. Because the liver plays a key role in plasma lysophosphatidylcholine removal and biotransformation and because virtually nothing is known of these processes in a diseased organ, the hepatobiliary metabolism of lysophosphatidylcholine was investigated in rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced liver cirrhosis. Twelve adult male Wistar rats with histologically confirmed cirrhosis and 8 control animals were fitted with jugular and biliary catheters and allowed to recover. The animals were kept under constant IV infusion of taurocholate (1 mumol/min). Two microcuries of sn-1[14C]palmitoyl-lysophosphatidylcholine was administered as a single bolus. The fate of the injected radioactivity, including removal from plasma, uptake, and subcellular location in the liver and molecular and aggregative forms, was studied by combined chromatographic and radiochemical methods. Major findings were (a) that lysophosphatidylcholine has a prolonged permanence in plasma of cirrhotic rats, due both to decreased hepatic clearance and to depressed conversion into phosphatidylcholine; (b) that the rate of lysophosphatidylcholine acylation is much slower in the cirrhotic than in the normal liver, both at the microsomal and at the cytosolic level; (c) that cytosolic lysophosphatidylcholine in the cirrhotic liver, but not in the normal liver, is predominantly non-protein bound; (d) that the strict molecular selectivity of lysophosphatidylcholine acylation observed in controls is partially lost in cirrhosis; and (e) that a consistent fraction of lysophosphatidylcholine is converted into triacylglycerols in cirrhotics but not in controls. These findings show a profound derangment of lysophosphatidylcholine handling and processing in the cirrhotic liver, which is of potential pathogenetic significance. 
The value of single versus multiple sections for detection of lymph node metastasis. This study was undertaken to determine the value of serial sectioning of lymph nodes as an aid in optimally examining cervical specimens for metastasis. The presence or absence of lymph node metastasis in 802 lymph nodes obtained from 51 consecutive neck dissection specimens were initially determined by the routine method, examination of one section from each node. This examination revealed 40 lymph nodes with metastatic involvement. Further study of the 716 lymph nodes that were initially interpreted as free of tumor by serial sectioning added only two positive nodes. Thus, serial sectioning did not contribute significantly to the detection of lymph node metastasis. 
Cytotoxic activity in plasma from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The present study evaluates an assay of cytotoxic effect of plasma from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Plasma from 20 recently diagnosed ALS patients induced hemolysis of normal red blood cells with a significantly greater intensity than that of normal controls. After at least 1 month of treatment with prednisone and azathioprine, the hemolytic activity of ALS plasma was reduced but was still higher than that of control plasma. 
Multiple giant cell tumors and Paget disease of bone: radiographic and clinical correlations. The clinical and radiographic findings of four patients with multicentric giant cell tumor (GCT) of bone and Paget disease were retrospectively reviewed. Three patients underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging evaluation; all patients underwent computed tomography (CT). The MR characteristics of the bone component in pagetic GCT appeared to reflect the pagetic phase; a sclerotic pattern was largely represented by hypointense marrow signal intensity on images obtained with both long and short repetition times (TRs) and echo times (TEs). Conversely, a tumor appearing in a mixed pagetic phase demonstrated more heterogeneous signal intensity with all pulse sequences. Extensive soft-tissue components, noted in all cases, showed largely intermediate signal intensity on short TR/TE images and foci of increased signal intensity on longer TR/TE images. In most cases, dramatic reduction in tumor bulk was noted with the use of steroids alone. An awareness of this entity is important because the appearance of lytic lesions with soft-tissue extension in patients with Paget disease does not necessarily imply a grave prognosis. Serial CT or MR imaging is helpful in monitoring the remissions and exacerbations that reflect response to therapy in Paget disease and GCT. 
Magnetic resonance assessment of the postoperative spine. Degenerative disc disease. The magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings in patients after surgery for degenerative disc disease in the lumbar and cervical spine are discussed. In the lumbar spine, changes seen in the immediate postoperative period, use of Gd-DTPA in distinguishing scar and disc and postoperative complications are reviewed. In the cervical spine, operative approaches and types, the appearance of bony stenosis, and disc herniations are demonstrated. 
Urethroplasty using the pedicled island flap technique in complicated urethral strictures. Many techniques have been described for the repair of recurrent urethral strictures. Experience with 1-stage correction of hypospadias and epispadias, using a vascularized island flap technique, has led to its increased application for complicated adult urethral strictures. The advantage of the vascularized island flap technique is that reconstruction can be completed with only 1 operation, and it provides good subjective and objective results. Analysis of 50 consecutive cases treated by this approach has proved its validity. Of the 50 cases fistulas occurred in 20%, of which 12% required surgical correction, and stricture recurred in 32%. The largest proportion of recurrence was noted in patients who were primarily treated with 3 or more urethrotomies within a short time. Therefore, we recommend open surgical repair when 1 or 2 internal urethrotomies fail to produce a good result. 
Bullous pemphigoid autoantibodies, HIV-1 infection and pruritic papular eruption. Bullous pemphigoid (BP)-type autoantibodies were found by Western blot (WB) analysis of epidermal extracts in the serum of 38% of HIV-seropositive patients compared with 21% of HIV-seronegative patients with chronic pruritus and 76% of patients with BP. They were further identified as BP autoantibodies (BPab) by immunoprecipitation and immunoelectron microscopy. Their incidence increased from 21% in HIV infection stage II to 37% and 43% in stages III and IV, respectively. Of the patients suffering from HIV-related chronic pruritic papulovesicular eruption. 75% showed circulating BPab as compared with 29% in those without skin problems (P = 0.0066) and, among them, 30% met the diagnostic criteria for BP when histology, WB, immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy techniques were used. In conclusion, this study identifies an autoimmune skin reaction that may account for, or be related to, the distressing pruritic eruptions occurring in HIV-infected patients. 
Molecular characterization of a region of DNA associated with mutations at the agouti locus in the mouse. Molecular characterization of a radiation-induced agouti (a)-locus mutation has resulted in the isolation of a segment of DNA that maps at or near the a locus on chromosome 2 in the mouse. This region of DNA is deleted in several radiation- or chemical-induced homozygous-lethal a-locus mutations and is associated with specific DNA structural alterations in two viable a-locus mutations. We propose that DNA probes from this region of chromosome 2 will be useful for ultimately characterizing the individual gene or genes associated with a-locus function. 
Fatty acids in human platelets and plasma. Fish oils decrease sensitivity toward N2 microbubbles. Platelet aggregation induced by N2 microbubbles (simulating microbubbles developed during deep diving) was measured in seven volunteers before and after intake of ethyl-eicosapentaenoate (-EPA, 3.5 g/day) and ethyl-docosahexaenoate (-DHA, 2.5 g/day) for 2 wk. The relative content of arachidonic acid (AA) decreased in platelets from all individuals, whereas the content of EPA and DHA increased. The decrease of AA was almost identical with the increase of EPA plus DHA. In plasma the AA content was unchanged, while EPA and DHA increased. The N2 microbubble-induced aggregation showed a significant negative correlation with the DHA content both in platelets and in plasma. Less aggregation was also observed with high EPA content in platelets or plasma. A significant correlation between AA content in platelets and aggregation was seen. Intake of marine oils may be beneficial to divers under deep diving and to patients during extracorporeal circulation, because this may reduce the microbubble-induced aggregation. 
Midventricular obstruction associated with chronic systemic hypertension and severe left ventricular hypertrophy. Midventricular obstruction is an uncommon finding previously defined by catheterization and angiographic techniques in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This study describes the clinical and echocardiographic findings of 10 consecutive patients (mean age 73 years) with severe concentric left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and the unusual finding of a dynamic systolic obstruction located in the midportion of the left ventricle. All patients were known to have chronic hypertension, and none had a history or family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In each case, a well-defined, high velocity, turbulent jet was identified by Doppler color flow imaging and subsequently confirmed with conventional Doppler techniques. Septal and posterior wall thickness averaged 1.67 and 1.57 cm, respectively. Mean LV mass index was 199 g/m2 and ejection fraction averaged 78%. Peak systolic velocity obtained by continuous-wave Doppler averaged 2.7 m/s and appeared as either a "late-peaking" or a "spike and dome" configuration. Seven of 10 patients gave a history of syncope or severe presyncope at the time of echocardiographic examination. At a mean follow-up of 1 year, syncope or presyncope had resolved in 5 patients in whom medication was adjusted based on the ultrasound study, but persisted in 2 patients in whom diuretic therapy was continued. It is concluded that obstruction to systolic flow can occur at the mid-LV level in some patients with severe concentric LV hypertrophy and avoidance of medication known to lower LV volume may relieve symptoms of transient inadequate cardiac output. 
The impact of nonidentical ABO cadaveric renal transplantation on waiting times and graft survival. Blood type O recipients of cadaveric renal transplants have longer pretransplant waiting periods than blood type A, B, and AB recipients. To evaluate reasons for and consequences of this discrepancy, we studied both the frequency of various donor and recipient blood type combinations and their outcomes. Among 37,659 cadaveric renal transplants performed during 1983 through 1989, there were 2,625 transplants (7%) received by patients of compatible but nonidentical blood types. Of 18,575 type O donor organs, 16,784 were received by type O patients for a recipient to donor ratio of 0.9. The corresponding ratios were greater than 1.0 for all other blood types (1.02 for blood type A, 1.14 for type B, and 2.18 for type AB). This causes blood type O patients to have a lower access to transplantation and to have significantly longer waiting times than patients of all other blood types. This inequality of access diminished significantly (P less than 0.001) over the years, but did not resolve by 1989. Analysis of relative risk for first graft loss by multiple regression (Cox) showed that transplantation across compatible blood types had a 9.1% higher risk (P less than 0.1) than that of transplantation among identical blood types. Cadaveric renal transplantation within identical blood types optimizes access to transplantation and avoids further aggravating past disadvantages for blood type O recipients. 
Results of a recently instituted programme of thrombolytic therapy in acute lower limb ischaemia. Twenty-eight patients with acute lower limb ischaemia received low dose intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy over a 2-year period. Eighteen patients received streptokinase and ten patients received recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA). Indications included arterial thromboemboli and graft failures. Mean ischaemic times were similar in both groups. Treatment time to achieve lysis was significantly less with rTPA (P less than 0.01). Subsequent vascular procedures, including angioplasty or reconstruction, were undertaken in 36 per cent of patients. Arterial puncture site bleeding occurred in eight (29 per cent) patients. Three (11 per cent) patients suffered rethrombosis after initial successful lysis. All rethromboses were successfully lysed with rTPA. There were two major amputations. Five (18 per cent) patients died, all lytic failures in the streptokinase treatment group. There were no cerebral haemorrhagic events and no patient died as a result of thrombolytic therapy. Good clinical outcome was obtained in nine of 18 patients treated with streptokinase and in nine of ten patients treated with rTPA. Intra-arterial thrombolysis provides effective therapy with high rates of limb salvage and a low mortality rate. This study suggests that rTPA may be a more effective agent, causing less morbidity, than streptokinase. 
Metastatic melanoma to the heart presenting with ventricular tachycardia. Intraventricular tumors in adults are uncommon, and the association of these with ventricular tachycardia is even more rare. We report a case of an intracardiac metastatic melanoma in a woman who presented with syncope due to ventricular tachycardia. 
Risk stratification after myocardial infarction. Clinical overview. Many patients with an acute myocardial infarction can be stratified into subgroups that are at high risk for morbidity and mortality on the basis of clinical characteristics that indicate recurrent myocardial ischemia, persistent left ventricular dysfunction, and/or recurrent cardiac arrhythmias. In patients with uncomplicated myocardial infarction the assessment of symptoms, physical findings, and ECG changes during predischarge exercise testing often identifies patients at increased risk for further cardiac events. Because of the suboptimum sensitivity and specificity of the exercise ECG for detecting myocardial ischemia, myocardial perfusion imaging with 201Tl and/or assessment of global and segmental ventricular function by two-dimensional echocardiography or radionuclide cineangiography during or immediately after exercise are often added to the predischarge risk stratification. 
Recurrent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade in a patient with hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis syndrome. We describe a patient with hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis syndrome complicated by recurrent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade. The episodes of pericarditis were associated with urticarial vasculitis, hypocomplementemia, and circulating IgG antibodies to the collagen-like region of Clq. Histopathologic examination of the skin and pericardium demonstrated vasculitis associated with immunoglobulin and complement deposition suggesting an immune complex mediated etiology. Recurrent pericarditis should be included in the clinical spectrum of hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis syndrome. 
Symptomatic benefit of supplemental oxygen in hypoxemic patients with chronic lung disease. We have compared the symptomatic benefit of air and oxygen at rest in hypoxemic patients with chronic obstructive airway disease (COAD) or interstitial lung disease (ILD). A total of 12 severely disabled patients with COAD (mean +/- SEM, PaO2, 50.3 +/- 3.7 mm Hg) and 10 with ILD (PaO2, 48.0 +/- 3.1 mm Hg) received 28% oxygen and air by Venturi face mask, each gas on two occasions, in a double-blind randomized fashion. SaO2 increased (p less than 0.01) in both groups during oxygen breathing: COAD, 85.1 +/- 2.3% versus 93.1 +/- 1.4%; ILD, 85.5 +/- 1.7% versus 94.7 +/- 0.9%. The patients with COAD stated that air helped their breathing on 15 of 24 occasions and that oxygen helped on 22 of 24 occasions (p less than 0.05). In the patients with ILD the values were 6 of 20 and 13 of 20 occasions, respectively (p less than 0.05). In both groups of patients the severity of breathlessness recorded on a 100-mm visual analog scale was significantly (p less than 0.05) lower during oxygen breathing: COAD, 29.6 +/- 4.5 versus 45.6 +/- 6.0; ILD, 30.2 +/- 5.1 versus 48.1 +/- 4.4. Ventilation measured by magnetometers was significantly lower during oxygen breathing in the patients with COAD (8.2 +/- 1.0 versus 9.3 +/- 1.1 L/min; p less than 0.05), but the difference between oxygen and air in patients with ILD was not statistically significant (9.3 +/- 1.3 versus 11.2 +/- 1.6 L/min; p greater than 0.05). 
Mitomycin C as an adjuvant treatment to resected gastric cancer. A 10-year follow-up. Seventy consecutive patients were entered in a two-arm randomized trial after surgical resection for locally advanced gastric cancer. In the first arm, 37 patients were included as a control group, receiving no further treatment after surgery. In the second arm, 33 patients were treated with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of mitomycin C (MMC), 20 mg/m2 administered intravenously once every 6 weeks for four consecutive cycles. All patients in both arms were followed in the same way for 5 years. At 5 years 23 of 37 patients in the control arm and 7 of 33 patients in the treatment arm were dead because of relapse. Actuarial survival curve was statistically significant in favor of patients given adjuvant MMC (p less than 0.001). After 10 years follow-up, 31 of 37 patients in the control arm and 16 out of 33 patients in the treatment arm were dead because of relapse, the statistical differences continuing in the actuarial survival curve in favor of treated patients (p less than 0.01). The best advantages of adjuvant treatment were observed in the T3N0M0 stage. The most frequent relapse site was the peritoneal cavity and the relapse pattern shows special decrease in liver metastases in treated patients. Toxicity was acute and mild. No delayed toxicity or second malignancies were observed. These data suggest that adjuvant MMC after resected surgery of gastric cancer is a successful treatment and its effects are still evident after 10 years of follow-up. 
Mucin-producing tumor of the pancreas. A new pancreatic tumor, called mucin-producing tumor, has received great attention in Japan. These tumors are found inside the pancreatic duct and produce large quantities of copious mucus. The authors examined 22 cases of these tumors histologically and histochemically. In 12 malignant cases, the tumors inside the ducts consisted of cancerous lesions over small areas along with papillary or atypical hyperplasia. Tumors in ten benign cases mainly consisted of papillary hyperplasia. Except for three patients with carcinoma in situ, cancerous tumors infiltrated the pancreatic parenchyma and, in some cases, were observed invading the bile duct or duodenum. A mucous histochemical study showed evidence of sialomucin in malignant cases; neutral mucin was dominant in benign cases. Characteristics of this disease were also compared with 13 cases of mucinous cystic neoplasm. From the results, it was concluded that these two diseases can be classified into the same conceptual category. 
A rat model of acute liver necrosis induced by a monoclonal antibody to liver-specific antigen and complement. Acute massive hepatic injury was induced in rats by a monoclonal antibody against a rat liver-specific membrane antigen, and its histological characteristics were investigated. A single intravenous injection of murine ascites containing a monoclonal antibody produced numerous hemorrhagic foci of degenerated and necrotic liver cells predominantly in zones 1 (the periportal area) and 2 (the area of transition between the periportal zone and the perivenular zone) of the liver lobule within 10 min. Massive hepatocellular necroses were observed 1 hr later, but no inflammatory cell infiltration occurred in and around the necrotic foci. Immunohistological study demonstrated marked deposition of the third component of the complement system in the necrotic area. Serum complement activity was sharply decreased immediately after the injection of the antibody, suggesting that the hepatic necrosis is ascribable to a complement-mediated immune attack on the liver cell membrane induced by the antigen-antibody reaction. The hepatic necrosis in response to monoclonal-antibody injection did not progress to a chronic disease and healed almost completely, changing to scar tissues within 2 wk. Although it is not clear whether this hepatic injury has any clinical relevance, this antibody/complement model may be useful for investigating the cause and therapy of hepatic diseases such as fulminant hepatitis. 
Preserved action of a rectus muscle after transection by an encircling solid silicone band. We present a case of anterior migration of a solid silicone band through a lateral rectus muscle. In this patient the action of the lateral rectus was preserved, and this is demonstrated photographically. The possible reasons for this rare complication and the possible mechanism by which lateral rectus activity remained intact are explained. 
Clinical features of Behcet's disease. Report of four cases. Behcet's disease is a multisystem inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology. The unifying histologic reaction pattern is a leukocytoclastic vasculitis that affects predominantly the skin, oral mucosa, and eyes. Many other sites of involvement have been reported but are inconsistently found in individual patients. Early recognition and treatment of Behcet's disease may help prevent devastating permanent sequelae such as blindness. Because oral involvement is often the first manifestation of this disorder, dental practitioners are in a unique position to help these patients. We report four cases of Behcet's disease in North American patients. Diagnostic criteria and treatment options are reviewed. 
Recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor after autologous bone marrow transplantation for lymphoid cancer. BACKGROUND. The period of neutropenia after autologous bone marrow transplantation results in substantial morbidity and mortality. The results of previous phase I-II clinical trials suggest that recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) may accelerate neutrophil recovery and thereby reduce complications in patients after autologous bone marrow transplantation. METHODS. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial at three institutions. The study design and treatment schedules were identical, and the results were pooled for analysis. One hundred twenty-eight patients were enrolled. Sixty-five patients received rhGM-CSF in a two-hour intravenous infusion daily for 21 days, starting within four hours of the marrow infusion, and 63 patients received placebo. RESULTS. No toxic effects specifically ascribed to rhGM-CSF were observed. The patients given rhGM-CSF had a recovery of the neutrophil count to 500 x 10(6) per liter 7 days earlier than the patients who received placebo (19 vs. 26 days, P less than 0.001), had fewer infections, required 3 fewer days of antibiotic administration (24 vs. 27 days, P = 0.009), and required 6 fewer days of initial hospitalization (median, 27 vs. 33 days; P = 0.01). There was no difference in the survival rate at day 100. CONCLUSIONS. In patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation for lymphoid neoplasia, rhGM-CSF significantly lessens morbidity. Further studies will be required to establish its optimal dosage and schedule of administration. 
Candida tropicalis and Candida albicans fungemia in children with leukemia. The records were reviewed for all patients hospitalized at a pediatric oncology center for complications of leukemia (n = 822) or lymphoma (n = 290) during an 8-year period. The results of surveillance cultures (throat, rectal, and urine) and blood cultures were analyzed to identify cases of Candida tropicalis and C. albicans colonization and/or fungemia. None of the patients with lymphoma who had positive surveillance cultures for C. albicans (n = 89) or C. tropicalis (n = 23) had fungemia. Among patients with leukemia, significant fungal infection was documented in 12 of 107 colonized with C. tropicalis (11.2%) versus 14 of 700 (2%) colonized with C. albicans (P less than 0.001). The two groups of children with fungemia were similar in primary diagnoses (predominantly acute lymphoblastic leukemia) and in the frequency of several known risk factors for infection, including the duration of neutropenia (absolute neutrophil counts, less than 500/microliters). Patients with C. tropicalis fungemia all had disseminated disease compared with nine of 14 patients with C. albicans fungemia. Also, subcutaneous abscesses were unique to patients with C. tropicalis in this series. Two patients in each group died of their infection; central nervous system involvement was present in both fatal cases of C. tropicalis fungemia. A high index of suspicion and the early institution of appropriate antifungal therapy are critical to the successful management of these infections in patients with leukemia. 
Prognostic importance of collateral flow and residual coronary stenosis of the myocardial infarct artery after anterior wall Q-wave acute myocardial infarction. Residual high-grade coronary stenosis and collateral flow are frequent findings in the chronic phase after a Q-wave acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The prognostic importance of a residual stenosis of the infarct artery and of collateral flow to the infarct area was analyzed in a group of 102 young patients (mean age 35 years, range 22 to 39) who had survived an anterior wall Q-wave AMI. Patients whose only significant lesion (greater than 50% luminal diameter reduction) was in the proximal portion of the left anterior descending artery were enrolled in the study. A 50 to 74% diameter stenosis was present in 33 of 102 patients (32%), 43 (42%) had a 75 to 99% stenosis and 26% had a total occlusion of the infarct vessel. Collateral vessels, which were evaluated by a scoring system, were present in 52 of 102 patients (51%). Four percent had only faint (score 1), 17 of 102 patients (17%) had moderate and 32 patients (31%) had good collateral flow (score greater than 4). The 8-year cumulative mortality was 15.2%--an eightfold increase compared with the age-matched general population. No patient with less than 75% stenosis died during follow-up, whereas the cumulative 8-year mortality was 23 and 17% in patients with a 75 to 99% stenosis or total occlusion, respectively (p less than 0.01). Patients with at least moderate collateral flow had a mortality rate of 21%, versus 8% for patients without or with faint collateral flow (p less than 0.05). 
Late bleeding after rhytidectomy from injury to the superficial temporal vessels. Five healthy, normotensive women, whose mean age was 49.8 years, developed expanding hematomas between 8 and 10 days (average 9 days) after rhytidectomy. In each patient, the bleeding vessel could be identified: In two, it was the parietal branch of the superficial temporal artery; in two, it was the parietal branch of the superficial temporal vein; and in one, it was the superficial temporal artery immediately before its branching. Contributing factors may have been sudden physical exertion in four of the five patients and in another salicylate ingestion. Several measures can help avoid late bleeding from the superficial temporal vessels or their branches; not using a too potent vasoconstrictive agent (epinephrine) in the local anesthetic so that the vessels will be easier to visualize; not injecting the local anesthetic too deeply or incising to deeply; dividing and ligating the superficial temporal vessel and its major branches if injured; using bipolar coagulation on small branches; and instructing patients repeatedly not to engage in strenuous activity or to ingest salicylates for at least 2 weeks after operation. 
Dietary fiber and bowel function in tube-fed patients. In tube-fed patients, dietary fiber is often used to manage constipation/diarrhea. Dietary fiber consists of water-soluble and insoluble plant compounds that are resistant to digestion by small-bowel enzymes but are fermented to varying degrees by colonic bacteria. Many physiologic effects of fiber may be related to the degree of fermentation. Few controlled studies of fiber-containing tube feedings have been performed. These studies have limitations and are nondefinitive as to whether fiber prevents or controls constipation/diarrhea. Constipation in tube-fed patients has not been shown to respond to mixed soluble/insoluble fiber in the few studies performed to date. Likewise, fiber may be of only limited benefit in controlling diarrhea in acute illness because of such factors as stress or medication. Fiber does play a role in maintaining gut integrity in all patients, whether they have diarrhea or not. Fiber may be recommended as part of a standard tube-feeding regimen to help assure gut mucosal integrity but not specifically to treat constipation/diarrhea. Further studies are necessary before the role of fiber in the management of constipation/diarrhea in tube-fed patients is determined. 
Hepatosplenic candidiasis: successful treatment with fluconazole. PURPOSE: To determine if fluconazole is effective treatment for hepatosplenic candidiasis that has not resolved with amphotericin B and flucytosine treatment. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six patients (ages 3 to 44) with acute leukemia and hepatosplenic candidiasis who did not respond to prior antifungal therapy were treated with fluconazole. RESULTS: All six patients had fever and three had nausea and vomiting; computed tomographic (CT) scan showed lucencies in the liver in six, lucencies in the spleen in five, and lucencies in the kidneys in three. Prior therapy with 1.6 to 4 g of amphotericin B in the five adults and 526 mg of amphotericin B in the child (with the addition of flucytosine in four) failed to improve clinical symptoms or lucencies in the liver, spleen, and kidneys seen on CT scan. Fluconazole was given at a dose of 200 to 400 mg daily (70 to 100 mg in the child) for 2 to 14 months. All patients had resolution of fever and other symptoms in 2 to 8 weeks. Improvement of the lesions noted on CT scan was seen in 4 to 8 weeks in all patients. Total resolution of lesions noted on CT scan occurred by 4 weeks in two patients, but took 4 to 5 months for three patients and 13 months for one patient. Three patients had relapse of their acute leukemia and two died, presumably cured of their candidiasis. Two patients underwent successful bone marrow transplantation without relapse of their candidiasis. CONCLUSION: Fluconazole appears to be useful in the treatment of hepatosplenic candidiasis that has not resolved with amphotericin B and flucytosine therapy. 
Abnormal vascular responses to supine exercise in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. BACKGROUND. Exercise hypotension has been documented in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. It is not the result of an inability to augment cardiac output but instead relates to an inappropriate and exaggerated decrease in systemic vascular resistance at high work loads. METHODS AND RESULTS. To enable us to examine the behavior of the peripheral vasculature during exercise, 103 consecutive patients underwent maximal symptom-limited supine bicycle exercise with measurement of forearm blood flow. A minimum reduction of 12% from the basal value was defined as a normal response based on the study of 25 normal controls. In the patients, two patterns of forearm blood flow were observed. Sixty-four patients had an appropriate reduction in forearm blood flow of 40 +/- 16% from resting flow. In 39 patients, the forearm blood flow either failed to decrease or increased with exercise by 45 +/- 105% of the resting value. Patients with an abnormal forearm vasodilator response were younger (31 +/- 13 versus 46 +/- 14 years), and more of them had a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and sudden death than did those with a normal vasoconstrictor response (16 of 39 versus eight of 64). Left ventricular end-diastolic cavity dimensions were smaller in those with an abnormal forearm blood flow response, but other clinical, echocardiographic, and arrhythmic variables were similar. To assess the relation of abnormal peripheral vascular responses to erect exercise blood pressure response, patients underwent treadmill exercise testing with careful monitoring of systolic blood pressure response. Thirty-eight patients had significant exercise hypotension with failure of the systolic blood pressure to increase during progressive exercise (n = 6) or an abrupt decrease in systolic blood pressure (20-60 mm Hg) from the peak value (n = 32); 65 patients had a normal exercise blood pressure response, but 18 of these patients had an oscillation in systolic blood pressure of 10 mm Hg or more early in the recovery phase. Thirty-one of 39 patients with an abnormal forearm blood flow response demonstrated exercise hypotension during the erect exercise testing, and the remaining eight patients had a normal exercise blood pressure response; however, five of these eight had abnormal oscillations in blood pressure during recovery (r = 0.61, p less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. The relation of abnormal peripheral vascular responses to exercise hypotension confirms the observation of hemodynamic instability in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The finding of abnormal vascular responses in patients known to be at increased risk (young age and a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and sudden death) suggests that hemodynamic mechanisms may be important in the occurrence of sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Surgical intensive care unit resource use in a specialty referral hospital: I. Predictors of early death and cost implications. The rationing of medical care prioritizes the need for early predictors of death in the surgical intensive care unit (SICU). We prospectively studied 100 consecutive SICU admissions, looking for predictors of early death in the SICU and the cost implications of these findings. Serial APACHE II scores on days 1, 3, and 5 were subjected to multinomial logistic regression analysis to determine significant predictors of death in the SICU on day 1. Survivors had significantly lower (p less than 0.05) mean day-1 APACHE II scores than had nonsurvivors (13.6 vs 22.1). Half of the patients with scores greater than 18 died, and all patients with scores on day 1 of 25 or greater died. Significant predictors of death on SICU day 1 were APACHE II scores, Acute Physiology Score, Glasgow Coma Score, creatinine level, and Chronic Health Evaluation Score. Forty-one patients had been transferred from community hospitals as a results of acute illness; this population accounted for two thirds of the deaths in the SICU. Ten of 18 nonsurvivors were predicted on day 1, with these patients incurring a total cost of approximately $1 million. If therapy had been modified on days 5, 10, or 15, the potential cost savings would have been $340,000, $240,000, or $140,000, respectively. Integration of the results of this study into the management decision-making process and treatment guidelines may reduce the cost of care in the SICU. 
Aortoiliac dissection after percutaneous insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump. Aortic or aortoiliac dissection may complicate percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump insertion in various ways. Thrombosis can escape clinical recognition if no major obstruction develops. Death due to perforation after dissection is not uncommon. In this case study, aortoiliac dissection led to bilateral iliac artery stenosis, an unusual complication of percutaneous femoral cannulation for insertion of a balloon pump. 
Effects of heart rate and pulmonary artery pressure on Doppler pulmonary artery acceleration time in experimental acute pulmonary hypertension. Chronic pulmonary hypertension in humans is characterized by shortening of the pulmonary artery acceleration time as measured by Doppler echocardiography, such that the higher the pulmonary artery pressure, the shorter the pulmonary acceleration time. Increases in heart rate are also known to produce decreases in the pulmonary artery acceleration time. To explore the relationship between mean pulmonary artery pressure, heart rate, and Doppler pulmonary artery acceleration time, experimental acute pulmonary hypertension was created in nine Duroc swine, either by infusion of Sephadex beads with embolization of the pulmonary arterial circulation or by partially occluding the main pulmonary artery 8 to 10 cm distal to the pulmonic valve. Pulmonary artery Doppler flow velocity recordings and invasive pressure measurements were made at baseline and at paced atrial rates ranging from 60 to 160 beats per minute, in 20-beat increments. The results in this acute animal model reveal that increases in heart rate produced significant decreases in Doppler pulmonary artery acceleration time at mean pressures below 25 mm Hg. However, with mean pulmonary artery pressures greater than 25 mm Hg, both heart rate and increases in pulmonary artery pressure had no significant effect on acceleration time. 
Hypo-fibrinolysis in patients with hypertension and elevated cholesterol. To test the hypothesis that increased blood pressure and hyperlipidaemia result in changes in the fibrinolytic system, 84 subjects with both hypertension and elevated serum cholesterol levels (the high risk group) were compared with 55 controls matched with respect to age, sex and body mass index (BMI). Plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1), and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) antigen and activity were measured before and after venous occlusion. In the high risk group, tPA activity was significantly lower both before and after venous occlusion and PAI-1 levels were significantly higher. In a multivariate analysis the triglyceride levels, diastolic blood pressure and cholesterol levels were independently associated with the PAI-1 levels. Diastolic blood pressure was independently and inversely associated with resting tPA activity. We conclude that patients with hypertension and hyperlipidaemia have a reduced activity of the fibrinolytic system, an effect which is unrelated to differences in age, sex, smoking or BMI. 
Doppler ultrasound and the silent ductus arteriosus. A clinically undetectable, small ductus arteriosus was identified by Doppler ultrasonography in 21 individuals. Infants were excluded from the study and no patient had pulmonary hypertension. Persistence of the ductus arteriosus is likely to be more common than shown by less sensitive diagnostic methods. Some patients considered to have infective endocarditis with a normal heart may have a silent ductus arteriosus. Evidence of such an association would justify ligation or antibiotic cover as prophylactic measures. 
Tears of the retinal pigment epithelium: occurrence in association with choroidal effusion. Two patients developed large tears of the retinal pigment epithelium associated with choroidal effusion. One tear occurred after combined cataract/filtration surgery complicated by postoperative choroidal detachment; the second developed in a patient with idiopathic uveal effusion syndrome. Weakness of the junctions of the pigment epithelial cells secondary to the accumulation of fluid in the subretinal or suprachoroidal space may result in tearing of the retinal pigment epithelium as it is stretched. 
Cell kinetics of gastrointestinal tumors after different nutritional regimens. A preliminary report. Forty-four cases of different untreated gastrointestinal tumors were studied with regard to cell kinetic activity. As a pilot experiment, we also determined the 3H-TdR Labeling Index (LI) in 28 patients in basal conditions and after 15 days of nutritional manipulation with prevalently lipid-based or glucose-based feeding to ascertain whether selective nutritional regimens could affect tumor proliferation. Preliminary results from this study indicate that a kinetic perturbation is induced in tumor cells by nutritional manipulation. Lipid-based feeding seems to produce effects similar to those of chemical or physical anticancer agents, thus suggesting a possible supporting role of nutritional manipulation in cancer treatment strategy. 
HBV-DNA-related hepatocellular carcinoma occurring in childhood. Report of three cases. In a series of 325 HBV chronically infected children observed over an 18-year period, three developed HCC. These three children were born in southern Italy, a region characterized by a high endemic HBV infection rate; each had been infected perinatally, developed an acute hepatitis, and became a chronic carrier. Two of the three with cirrhosis were HBsAg positive at the time their HCC was detected. The remaining case had seroconverted to HBsAb but HBV-DNA integration could be demonstrated in the absence of cirrhosis; moreover HBV antigens were not expressed in the tissue of this case. The interval between HBV infection and HCC appearance in these three cases ranged from six to 11 years. A similarity between these three Italian cases and the majority of HCC arising in chronically infected children in the Far East is noted. 
Localized recurrent postoperative pernio associated with leukocytoclastic vasculitis. A patient with recurrent pernio of the right ankle for 21 years after surgery had a leukocytoclastic vasculitis localized in the area. We suggest that the various histologic descriptions of pernio in the literature and in this case represent different levels of severity of the disease. 
Intraoral reconstruction with a microvascular peritoneal flap. The microvascular peritoneal flap offers a new reconstructive option for closure of intraoral defects. The flap is easy to raise, and donor-site morbidity is low. Unlike fascial flaps, in which the raw surface may take weeks to "mucosalize," the peritoneal surface heals primarily. Finally, the rectus muscle effectively covers all forms of mandibular reconstruction, and the reliable skin paddle makes possible the closure of substantial cutaneous defects. 
Interrelation of analgesia and uterine activity in women with primary dysmenorrhea. A preliminary report. The interrelation between uterine activity and pain from primary dysmenorrhea has been of interest for many years. Objective studies of uterine activity during non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug therapy have supported the assertion that uterine activity causes pain and that reducing that activity leads to pain reduction. Unfortunately, those studies could not refute the counter-assertion that reductions in uterine activity come about because of reduced pain through central analgesia and not by direct pharmacologic action. In an effort to clarify this question, a small number of women were studied using intrauterine pressure recording and analysis to evaluate objective changes in uterine physiology during transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) therapy for dysmenorrhea. The preliminary studies indicated that despite successful subjective therapy with TENS, intrauterine pressure parameters remained steady or showed signs of worsening. These findings indicate that TENS provides pure analgesia by an alteration of the body's ability to receive or perceive the pain signal rather than by a direct uterine effect. It appears that the reduction in uterine activity seen in objective drug studies represents direct drug action rather than a change from reduced pain through central analgesic effects. 
Flow characteristics of enteral feeding with psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid added. One therapy for managing diarrhea in patients in intensive care units who are receiving enteral nutrition is administration of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid (PHM). This laboratory study was conducted to determine whether the addition of PHM (Metamucil) to enteral feeding formula (Entrition) adversely affected the flow characteristics of the feeding formula through a small-bore feeding tube. Descriptive data were obtained from 72 trials of feeding formula with varied infusion rates, formula osmolality and temperature, and PHM concentrations. Two thirds (n = 48) of the trials were successful (PHM did not clog the tubing and obstruct flow). The remaining one third of the trials (n = 24) were unsuccessful. Successful formula infusion was influenced by formula temperature and osmolality but not by infusion rate, PHM concentration, or flow interruption. If formula with PHM was followed by formula without PHM, the infusion was successful regardless of infusion rate or formula osmolality. Thus, the data from this laboratory study indicate that when therapeutic doses of PHM are prescribed, it is feasible for PHM to be mixed in room-temperature feeding formula and infused without clogging the feeding tube. 
The role of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-I in experimental renal growth and scarring. Recent evidence suggests a causal link between early renal/glomerular hypertrophy and late kidney scarring and glomerular sclerosis. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a growth-promoting peptide likely to play a role in the development of kidney growth. We observed an increased renal IGF-I content in two experimental models of accelerated kidney growth in the rat. By contrast, diabetic renal hypertrophy is abolished in the absence of growth hormone (GH). Dietary protein manipulations affect the expression of compensatory renal growth (CRG), as well as renal IGF-I content. The renotrophic effect of a high-protein diet on CRG seems GH-dependent and IGF-I-mediated. GH also appears to have a permissive role on the development of progressive renal scarring following extensive renal ablation in rats, as dwarf rats seem somewhat resistant to the development of accelerated scarring and renal failure. 
Prognosis in T2N0M0 stage I breast carcinoma: a 20-year follow-up study. In a study of prognosis in node-negative breast carcinoma, we investigated 293 T2N0M0 patients treated by mastectomy and axillary dissection with a median follow-up of 19.8 years. The probability of surviving 20 years considering all causes of death was 41.3% +/- 3.0%. Recurrence-free survival (Kaplan-Meier estimate) was 68.6% +/- 3% at 10 years and 63.2% +/- 3.1% at 20 years. The estimated probability of cure determined by the method of Brinkley and Haybittle was 63% (95% confidence interval [Cl], 55% to 72%). Prognosis was related to primary tumor size with the best separation (P = .06) when tumors from 2.1 to 3.0 cm (33% chance of recurrence at 20 years) and from 3.1 to 5.0 cm (44% chance of recurrence at 20 years) were compared. The histologic tumor type was prognostically important. Recurrence at 20 years was not significantly different for patients with invasive duct (34%) and lobular (42%) carcinoma. Women with special types (medullary, mucinous, papillary, etc) of carcinoma had a 25% chance of recurrence. Subsequent contralateral breast carcinoma was diagnosed in 29 patients, and four of these were fatal, accounting for only 4.6% of breast carcinoma deaths. Thirty-two patients (10.9%) developed a nonmammary malignant neoplasm (NMMN) after the ipsilateral breast carcinoma, and 69% of these lesions were fatal. Although the chances of recurrence at 20 years related to tumor size and type did not differ statistically in the series, there were trends that suggest that T2N0M0 patients can be stratified into recurrence risk groups based on tumor size and histologic type. These factors should be taken into consideration in the design and analysis of clinical adjuvant therapy trials. Measures for the early detection of common NMMNs should be included in the routine follow-up of T2N0M0 breast carcinoma patients. 
Serum endothelin-1 concentrations and cold provocation in primary Raynaud's phenomenon To determine whether the vasoconstriction in Raynaud's phenomenon is associated with raised concentrations of the endothelium-derived vasoconstrictor endothelin (ET-1), responses to cold pressor testing were examined in 7 subjects with primary Raynaud's phenomenon and in 7 control subjects. Baseline serum ET-1 levels (pg/ml), as measured by radioimmunoassay, were three times higher in Raynaud's subjects (5.3 [SEM 1.7] pg/ml) than in controls (1.7 [0.3]). With progressive local cooling digital arterial pulsatility, as measured by plethysmography, fell earlier and to a greater extent in Raynaud's subjects than in controls, with a half-maximum decrement in pulsatility occurring at 27 [2.6] degrees C and 18 [0.5] degrees C, respectively. Temperature reduction sufficient to cause loss of pulsatility in the Raynaud's subjects produced increases in ET-1 concentrations in both groups that were greater in Raynaud's (10.3 [4.4] pg/ml) than in control subjects (2.7 [0.9] pg/ml). Serum ET-1 in the contralateral arm rose in parallel to but to a lesser extent than that in the cold-challenged arm. Increases in ET-1 concentrations were temporally related to loss of pulsatility but followed the onset of symptoms. Thus the increased basal and stimulated serum endothelin concentrations in Raynaud's disease are associated with the enhanced, prolonged vasospasm of this disorder. 
Embolization of arteriovenous malformations with peripheral aneurysms using ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer. Report of three cases. The authors report three cases of arteriovenous malformations (AVM's) with aneurysms arising from the feeding artery; all were successfully treated with a new nonadhesive liquid embolic material, ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer (EVAL). In two patients the AVM's were totally removed without difficulty, and in one the AVM was managed conservatively after embolization. No new neurological deficits appeared during or after embolization. After road-mapping techniques, EVAL was injected slowly until the feeding artery and aneurysm were completely obliterated. This embolic agent is easy to handle and is considered safe compared with other adhesive liquid embolic agents, such as isobutyl-2-cyanoacrylate or n-butyl cyanoacrylate. It is concluded that EVAL is an excellent agent for embolizing an AVM with a peripheral aneurysm on the feeding artery. 
Duodenal obstruction by a nondeflating Foley catheter gastrostomy tube. We report the case of a 36-year-old mentally retarded man who presented to our emergency department after one day of vomiting and one episode of coffee-ground emesis. The Foley catheter used as his gastrostomy tube was found to be obstructing the duodenum, and the balloon could not be deflated. Removal was accomplished by rupturing the balloon by endoscopy. Our case illustrates one of many possible complications of feeding gastrostomy tubes. 
Soft tissue sarcomas of the chest wall. Results of surgical resection. Primary soft tissue sarcomas of the chest wall are uncommon, and data concerning treatment and results are sparse. Most studies have categorized these tumors as truncal sarcomas and inferred a poor prognosis. To assess the results of surgical treatment, we reviewed our 40-year experience. Methods: Records of 189 patients admitted to our institution from 1948 to 1988 were reviewed. Pathologic material was available for review in the 149 cases (79%) that comprise this report. Survival was calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method, with comparisons by log-rank analysis and significance defined as p less than 0.05. Results: Ages ranged from 3 weeks to 86 years (median, 38 years); the ratio of male to female patients was 2:1. The initial complaint was mass or pain in 97% of the cases. Ninety sarcomas (60%) were high grade and 59 (40%) were low grade. Histologic types were as follows: desmoid tumor (n = 32, 21%); liposarcoma (n = 23, 15%); rhabdomyosarcoma (n = 18, 12%); fibrosarcoma (n = 17, 11%); embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (n = 14, 9%); malignant peripheral nerve tumor (n = 13, 9%); malignant fibrous histiocytoma (n = 11, 7%); spindle cell sarcoma (n = 4, 3%); tenosynovial sarcoma (n = 3, 3%); hemangiopericytoma (n = 3, 3%); alveolar soft part sarcoma (n = 3, 3%); and other types (n = 12, 9%). Resection was the primary treatment in 140 cases (94%). Local recurrence developed in 27%. Metastases occurred in 52 (35%) of the cases (metachronous in 42, synchronous in 10) and were more common in patients with high-grade disease (46/90, 51%) than in those with low-grade disease (6/59, 10%). Overall 5-year survival was 66%. Five-year survival rate for those with high-grade sarcomas (49%) was significantly lower than that for low-grade sarcomas (90%, p less than 0.0001). Tumor size and age of patient were not prognostic. Conclusions: Survival of patients with primary soft tissue sarcomas of the chest wall after resection is similar to that of patients with sarcomas of the extremities. Resection alone provides acceptable survival (90% at 5 years) for those with low-grade sarcomas, but adjuvant treatment should be considered for those with high-grade sarcomas. 
Cephalometric measurements in snorers, non-snorers, and patients with sleep apnoea. Cephalometry is often used to assess patients with sleep apnoea but whether these measurements differ from those in non-apnoeic snorers and how they are influenced by age is not clear. Cephalometric radiographs of patients with sleep apnoea were compared with those of snorers without sleep apnoea and those of non-snorers. Fifty two snorers with suspected sleep apnoea had a conventional sleep study and were divided into two groups: those with an apnoea-hypopnoea index greater than 10/h (n = 40, sleep apnoea group) and those whose apnoea-hypopnoea index was 10/h or less (n = 12, snorer group). The cephalometric measurements in these patients were compared with those of 34 non-snoring control subjects. Controls were subdivided into two groups: control group 1 included 17 subjects similar in age to the sleep apnoea and snorer groups (mean (SD) age 50.0 (10.9), 50.7 (9.4), and 50.6 (9.7) years); control group 2 included 15 young men (25.4 (2.6) years). The distance from the mandibular plane to the hyoid bone (MP-H) and the length of the soft palate were greater in the patients with sleep apnoea (28.7 (7.8) and 43.6 (5.0) mm) than in the snorers (23.7 (4.2) and 40.3 (4.9 mm). The MP-H was similar in snorers and age matched control subjects, but was significantly greater in the older than in the younger control subjects (22.1 (6.1) vs 17.0 (6.8]. The soft palate was longer in subjects who snored (both sleep apnoea patients and snorers) than in control subjects. The MP-H distance significantly correlated with age for all subjects (snorers and controls) and for the control subjects alone. This study shows that non-apnoeic snorers have cephalometric abnormalities that differ from those of patients with sleep apnoea and that cephalometric values are influenced by the subject's age. 
Intravascular stents in the management of superior vena cava syndrome. Superior vena cava syndrome can be effectively palliated with the use of intravascular stents. Adjunctive modalities which may be utilized prior to stent placement are thrombolytic therapy and balloon angioplasty. Six patients with an underlying malignancy were treated with these modalities. Complete resolution of symptoms occurred in five patients, and partial resolution occurred in the sixth. Two of the patients who had initial, complete resolution of symptoms had recurrences. One involved rethrombosis of the superior vena cava which occurred twice and required percutaneous thrombectomy, and the second involved restenosis requiring a percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the SVC just distal to the stent. Both of these patients with second procedures, again, had complete resolution of symptoms. Intravascular stents are a valuable additional treatment of superior vena cava syndrome. 
Chemicals and environmentally caused diseases in developing countries. This chapter discusses international aspects of diseases resulting from exposure to chemical pollutants in the environment, with an emphasis on developing countries. These countries share many of the same problems of air, water, and pesticide pollution that face the more industrialized countries. In developing countries, however, the problems are compounded by a number of unique situations, viz., economic priorities, high burden of infectious diseases, impoverishment, and absence of a regulatory framework for the disposal of toxic chemicals. This discussion emphasizes the importance of interactions among toxicants, malnutrition, and infectious diseases for both urban and rural populations insofar as these interactions contribute to disease. Toxicants not only produce disease directly but also exacerbate diseases with other causes. Specific examples from developing countries demonstrate how human health effects from exposures to environmental chemicals can be assessed. While they do not strictly fall under the rubric of "developing countries," the public health consequences of inadequate control of environmental pollution in the East European countries should demonstrate the magnitude of the problem, except that in developing countries the public health consequence of environmental chemicals will be aggravated by the widespread malnutrition and high prevalence of infectious diseases. Much needs to be done before we can adequately quantify the contribution of environmental chemicals to morbidity and mortality in developing countries with the level of sophistication now evident in the charting of infectious diseases in these countries. 
Acute spinal cord injury: magnetic resonance imaging correlated with myelopathy. Thirty-one patients (29 males and two females, 13-87 years of age (mean, 46.7 years] with acute spinal cord injury were studied by MR (magnetic resonance) imaging and the results were correlated with neurological findings. Magnetic resonance images were obtained with a 0.5 T superconductive MR scanner (Phillips Gyroscan S5). Initial imaging was performed within 24 hours after trauma in 13 patients, 1-7 days in 13 patients and 7-14 days in five patients. Twenty-six patients underwent follow-up examinations with MR imaging. Cord abnormalities including cord compression (23 patients), cord swelling (seven patients), and abnormal signal intensities on either T1 or T2-weighted images (26 patients) were observed on initial examination. Multivariate analysis showed that cord compression and abnormal intensities on T1-weighted images were important prognostic indicators. Hyperintensity on T2-weighted images was non-specific but correlated well with clinical recovery. Magnetic resonance imaging is useful in predicting the prognosis and for planning treatment following spinal cord injuries. 
Can vitamin D deficiency produce an unusual pain syndrome? An unusual pain occurred in five patients in the presence of compromised vitamin D status and resolved 5 to 7 days after supplementation with vitamin D in the form of ergocalciferol. The pain had a hyperesthetic quality and did not respond to the use of analgesics, including opiate derivatives. Treatment with therapeutic levels of a tricyclic antidepressant did not bring relief of symptoms. In one case, months after treatment and subsequent improvement of vitamin D status and pain, the vitamin D status again declined and the pain recurred. The pain again resolved with vitamin D replacement and improvement of levels. There may be a pain syndrome associated with vitamin D depletion that appears as hyperesthesia worsened by light, superficial pressure or even small increments of movement. This pain restricts mobility and function and may lead to further complications, such as pressure sores. 
Operations for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Forty-six patients with symptomatic tachycardia underwent operations to divide 55 atrioventricular accessory pathways. Mean age was 29 years (range 11 to 63). Ten patients (22%) had associated cardiac disease, including two with a congenital diverticulum of the coronary sinus and six (13%) who had concomitant surgical procedures. A bipolar hand-held electrode was used in 22 operations, and simultaneous multisite mapping in the last 24 operations. Ten patients (22%) had multiple accessory pathways. A modified endocardial approach was used. The overall patient success rate was 93% with 91% to 93% of accessory pathways successfully divided. The perioperative morbidity was 17%. There were two reoperations. There were no early or late deaths. Patients have been followed up for a mean of 16 months. There were five recurrences of preexcitation (two early, three late). Two of these patients (both with a congenital diverticulum of the coronary sinus) had reoperation. One patient had late recurrence of atrial fibrillation. Operation for the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome has a high probability of success with a low operative risk. 
Oral contraceptives and coronary heart disease. In industrialized countries, coronary heart disease (CHD) is a major public health problem for both men and women. Preventive strategies for reducing the excessive mortality and morbidity associated with CHD involve the identification and modification of metabolic factors believed to be involved in the disease process. Three major areas of concern are lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism and the hemostatic system. The steroid hormones contained in oral contraceptives (OCs) have been shown to interfere in all three areas. In many instances OCs have been shown to alter metabolic markers for CHD in directions associated with increased risk. Although evidence is lacking that such changes induce CHD in users of modern, low-dose OCs, it would be prudent to develop formulations with a minimal impact on metabolic risk markers. There is increasing evidence that many of the metabolic disturbances seen in CHD patients share a common origin, and the development of risk-free OCs is likely to require investigation into complex interrelationships. 
Demonstration of myocardial reperfusion injury in humans: results of a pilot study utilizing acute coronary angioplasty with perfluorochemical in anterior myocardial infarction. Reperfusion may limit the amount of potentially salvageable myocardium through the introduction of cellular elements into previously ischemic but viable myocardium (reperfusion injury). It has been demonstrated that intracoronary infusion of a 20% intravascular perfluorochemical emulsion (Fluosol) significantly reduces infarct size and results in improved left ventricular function in the canine model. This pilot study was performed to explore the existence of myocardial reperfusion injury in humans. Utilizing Fluosol as a probe in conjunction with emergency coronary angioplasty, 26 patients presenting within 4 h with a first anterior myocardial infarction were randomized to emergency angioplasty or angioplasty followed by a 30-min intracoronary infusion of Fluosol at 40 ml/min. Global and regional ventricular function were assessed immediately and a mean of 12 days after successful angioplasty with contrast ventriculography. Infarct size was semiquantitated with thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images before discharge. Twelve patients (six undergoing angioplasty alone, six treated with angioplasty and Fluosol) had an occluded infarct-related vessel (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction [TIMI] grade 0 to 1) at the time of emergency catheterization and were included in the final analysis. At 12 days after successful angioplasty, the improvement in regional ventricular function was greater in patients receiving adjunctive therapy with intracoronary Fluosol versus those undergoing angioplasty alone utilizing both the radial shortening and centerline method, respectively (23 +/- 3.1% vs. 8 +/- 2.3%, p less than 0.02; and -1.6 +/- 0.4 vs. -2.9 +/- 0.2 SD/chord, p less than 0.05). 
The rectus abdominis free flap in head and neck reconstruction. The rectus abdominis musculocutaneous free flap, based on the deep inferior epigastric artery and vein, has been used widely in reconstruction of the breast and extremities. The number of reports on its applications in the head and neck is limited. The rectus abdominis free flap is one of the most versatile soft-tissue flaps. The deep inferior epigastric artery and vein are long, large-diameter vessels that are ideal for microvascular anastomoses. The area of skin that can be transferred is probably the largest of all flaps presently in use. The versatility of this donor site is due to the ability to transfer large areas of skin with varying thicknesses and varying amounts of underlying muscle. We have successfully used this flap in 15 consecutive patients to reconstruct defects of the neck, face, mouth, pharynx, skull base, and scalp. No major complications involving either the recipient or donor sites occurred. The literature on the use of the rectus abdominis flap in head and neck reconstruction is reviewed in detail. The advantages and disadvantages of this soft-tissue free flap are thoroughly discussed in an effort to better define its proper place among the reconstructive options available to the head and neck surgeon. 
Effect of dietary proteins and lipids in patients with membranous nephropathy and nephrotic syndrome. Twenty-four patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy, long-lasting nephrotic syndrome and serum creatinine less than 2 mg/dl ate sequentially, in a randomized cross-over design, a normal protein diet containing 1.1 +/- 0.3 g/kg/day of proteins and a low protein diet containing 0.7 +/- 0.1 g/kg/day of protein, each diet for a period of 3 months. Both diets were low in fat (less than 30% of total calories) and cholesterol (less than 200 mg/day) content and rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids and in linoleic acid (10% of energy). Random assignment to one of the two 3 month diet periods was done after a RUN-IN period of at least one month on the hypolipidic normal protein diet. Glomerular filtration rate (inulin clearance), 24 hour urinary protein loss and serum albumin concentration did not significantly differ at the end of the two diet periods, indicating that long-term restriction of protein intake does not modify GFR or urinary protein loss in nephrotic patients. Serum total and LDL-cholesterol and daily proteinuria were significantly lower at the end of both diet periods than at the beginning and at the end of the RUN-IN period. We suggest that these changes were a consequence of the manipulation of dietary fat intake. 
Ofloxacin versus parenteral therapy for chronic osteomyelitis. We conducted a randomized comparison of oral ofloxacin (400 mg twice a day) and parenteral agents (cefazolin, 1.0 g intravenously every 8 h, or ceftazidime, 2.0 g intravenously every 12 h) in biopsy-confirmed, nonprosthesis osteomyelitis. A total of 19 subjects received ofloxacin for an average of 8 weeks, and 14 received parenteral antibiotics for an average of 4 weeks; both therapies were well tolerated. Infections were due to Staphylococcus aureus (40%), Enterococcus spp. (3%), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (15%), and other gram-negative organisms (42%). At the completion of therapy, one P. aeruginosa infection in the ofloxacin group persisted and the organism acquired resistance, accompanied by a resistant Acinetobacter superinfection. In the parenteral group, one S. aureus infection persisted, and there was a resolved superinfection due to S. aureus as well. Eighteen-month follow-up data have been obtained. Among those treated with ofloxacin, four subjects whose initial response to therapy was successful suffered relapses of infection, three due to S. aureus and one due to P. aeruginosa, while in the parenteral group, one subject with a P. aeruginosa infection relapsed. Long-term response to therapy was successful for 14 of 19 (74%) subjects who received ofloxacin and 12 of 14 (86%) who received parenteral antibiotics; the difference was not significant. Oral ofloxacin appears comparable to parenteral antibiotics in chronic osteomyelitis due to susceptible organisms, and oral ofloxacin offers advantages in economics and convenience. 
Auditory screening of infants. Within the last 20 years, infant hearing screening has progressed from a laudable goal to a state-mandated reality in many areas of the United States. The high risk register provides a means by which history and neonatal physical examination can be used to identify the infant at risk for hearing loss. Two procedures (crib-O-gram and auditory brainstem-evoked response) have been the most common methods of screening for hearing loss in the newborn or in intensive care nurseries. Evoked cochlear emissions reportedly are identifiable in 90 to 100% of normal-hearing infants. This observation has lead to the use of evoked otoacoustic emissions as a hearing screening procedure with infants. 
SWIFT trial of delayed elective intervention v conservative treatment after thrombolysis with anistreplase in acute myocardial infarction. SWIFT (Should We Intervene Following Thrombolysis?) Trial Study Group. OBJECTIVE--To see whether early elective angiography with a view to coronary angioplasty or bypass grafting of a stenosed infarct related vessel would improve outcome in acute myocardial infarction treated by thrombolysis with anistreplase. DESIGN--Randomised study of two treatment strategies with analysis of results over 12 months. SETTING--21 district hospitals and regional cardiac centres in Britain and Ireland. SUBJECTS--800 of 993 patients presenting with clinical and electrocardiographic features of acute myocardial infarction up to three hours after the onset of major symptoms. TREATMENT STRATEGIES--Intravenous anistreplase 30 units followed by a standard regimen of heparin, warfarin, and timolol and (in patients so randomised) early angiography plus appropriate intervention. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Death or reinfarction within 12 months. RESULTS--397 patients were randomised to receive early angiography plus appropriate intervention (coronary angioplasty in 169 cases, coronary grafting in 59) and 403 patients to receive conservative care (of these, 12 had angioplasty and seven bypass grafting during the initial admission). By 12 months mortality (5.8% (23 patients) in the intervention group v 5.0% (20) in the conservative care group; p = 0.6) and rates of reinfarction (15.1% (60 patients) v 12.9% (52); p = 0.4) were similar in the two groups. No significant differences in rates of angina or rest pain were found at 12 months. Left ventricular ejection fraction at three and 12 months was the same in both groups. Median hospital stay was longer in the intervention group (11 days v 10 days; p less than 0.0001). CONCLUSION--For most patients given thrombolytic treatment for acute myocardial infarction a strategy of angiography and intervention is appropriate only when required for clinical indications. 
Chondromyxoid fibroma: radiographic appearance in 38 cases and in a review of the literature [published erratum appears in Radiology 1991 Aug;180(2):586] Thirty-eight cases of histologically confirmed chondromyxoid fibroma were reviewed and their radiographic features recorded. These findings, coupled with a review of the English-language medical literature, suggest that this rare, benign bone tumor has a characteristic but not specific radiographic appearance and may often mimic more common tumors. Chondromyxoid fibroma may occur anywhere in the skeleton, but almost half of the cases occur around the knee. The possibility of chondromyxoid fibroma should always be considered when a focal bone lesion is evaluated that has geographic bone destruction, a sclerotic rim, lobulated margins, and septation. The diagnosis of chondromyxoid fibroma is most likely when the patient is in the 2nd decade of life. 
Role of bile acids in splanchnic hemodynamic response to chronic portal hypertension. Previous studies from our laboratory suggest that humoral factors, namely glucagon, can account for approximately 30% of the splanchnic vasodilation in rats with prehepatic portal hypertension. A reduced vascular sensitivity to norepinephrine, vasopressin, and angiotensin II may contribute to the splanchnic vasodilation. However, neither glucagon nor an altered vasoconstrictor sensitivity can fully account for the splanchnic vasodilation observed in portal hypertensive subjects. Therefore, the present study was designed to examine the role of bile acids in the splanchnic hyperemia of portal hypertension since (1) serum bile acids are elevated in portal hypertensive subjects and (2) bile acids are potent intestinal vasodilators. Prehepatic portal hypertension was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by surgical constriction of the portal vein. Ten to 14 days after the induction of portal hypertension, the enterohepatic circulation of control and portal hypertensive rats was surgically interrupted. The animals were placed in Bollman restraint cages and allowed to recover. Eighteen to 24 hr later, the rats were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and regional blood flow measured with radiolabeled microspheres. Normal and portal hypertensive animals without bile fistula served as controls. Plasma bile acid levels measured by radioimmunoassay were approximately 3.8 times higher in portal hypertensive animals than in control. Bile duct cannulation effectively depleted both normal and portal hypertensive animals of their circulating bile acid pool and significantly reduced portal venous inflow in portal hypertensive but not in control rats. A role for bile acids as partial mediators of the splanchnic hyperemia of portal hypertension is suggested since bile acid depletion did not completely abolish the gastrointestinal hyperemia. 
Risk factors for injurious falls: a prospective study. We conducted a prospective study of the consequences of falls in 325 elderly community-dwelling persons, all of whom had fallen in the previous year. We contacted subjects every week for one year to ascertain falls and to determine the circumstances and consequences of falls. Only 6% of 539 falls resulted in a major injury (fracture, dislocation, or laceration requiring suture), but over half (55%) resulted in minor soft tissue injury. One in ten falls left the faller unable to get up for at least 5 minutes, and one in four falls caused subjects to limit their activities. The risk of injury per fall was about the same regardless of the number of falls a person had during follow-up. The risk of major injury was increased (age- and sex-adjusted odds ratio: 5.9, 95% confidence interval: 2.3-14.9) in falls associated with loss of consciousness compared to nonsyncopal falls. In multivariate analyses of nonsyncopal falls, the risk of major injury per fall was higher in persons having a previous fall with fracture (6.7; 2.1-21.5), a slower Trail Making B time (1.9; 1.1-3.2), and in Whites (18.4; 7.5-44.6). The risk that a nonsyncopal fall would result in minor injury (versus no injury) was increased in persons with a slower hand reaction time (1.8; 1.0-3.2) decreased grip strength (1.5; 1.0-2.3), in Whites (2.0; 1.0-3.7), in falls while using stairs and steps (2.2; 1.0-5.0), and turning around or reaching (3.5; 1.7-7.3). Our findings suggest that neuromuscular and cognitive impairment, as well as the circumstances of falls, affect the risk of injury when a fall occurs. 
The day-long antianginal effectiveness of nitroglycerin patches. A double-blind study using dose-titration. This study was designed to determine the day-long antianginal effectiveness of nitroglycerin patches in the nitrate-exposed patient, as well as the doses required. Eight men with chronic stable angina, a positive treadmill test, and demonstrated responsiveness to long-term oral isosorbide dinitrate were studied after they had been taking effective doses of isosorbide dinitrate three times a day for at least two weeks. Treadmill exercise bouts were performed every 1 to 2 hours over 1 day, after the 8 am application of active nitroglycerin patches in a previously titrated dose, and on another day after application of placebo patches. Mean necessary effective patch dose was 125 sq cm (60 to 220 sq cm). Mean exercise duration to angina rose from 271 to 480 s (p less than 0.001) 1 hour after active patches, while resting systolic blood pressure fell from 122 mm Hg to 100 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). (After placebo patches: +19 s and -2 mm Hg, respectively.) Active patches were superior to placebo throughout the day, but in declining degree (by 94 s at 7 pm, p less than 0.05). Thus, nitroglycerin patches can provide a significant day-long antianginal effect in the patient with long-term exposure to nitrate. However, the need for large doses and individual titration may make this therapy impractical. 
Laser cordectomy for T1 glottic carcinoma: a 10-year experience and videostroboscopic findings. Fifty-three patients underwent laser cordectomy for T1 glottic squamous cell carcinoma between January 1980 and December 1989--sixteen after having undergone unsuccessful radiation and thirty-seven who had no previous treatment. There was a 51% five-year cure rate in the irradiated group vs. 62% in the nonirradiated group. Extension of tumor to the anterior commissure resulted in a higher failure rate. Patients experienced an overall 5-year cure rate of 98% after surgical or radiation salvage of unsuccessful laser cordectomies. Six patients had preoperative and postoperative videostrobolaryngoscopy. The most common postoperative problem with voice was a breathiness that did not resolve in any of the patients. All patients had absent or moderately reduced amplitude and mucosal wave patterns and imcomplete glottic closure proportional to the amount of cordal tissue removed. Despite it seemingly poor results in carefully selected patients, laser cordectomy is still indicated without compromising the ultimate oncologic results. Advantages over radiation therapy or conservation laryngeal surgery include a short treatment time, requiring only an outpatient surgical procedure at the time of the initial diagnostic and/or staging laryngoscopy, and the avoidance of potential radiation side effects or surgical complications. However, patients should be advised the possibility of persistent postoperative breathy dysphonia, in addition to the possibility of further treatment to effect a long-term cure. 
Crossover ilioprofunda reconstruction: an expanded role for obturator foramen bypass. The standard obturator foramen bypass extends from the aorta or iliac artery to the ipsilateral superficial femoral or popliteal artery. This operation has been both effective and versatile as an indirect bypass procedure for circumventing difficult vascular problems in the femoral triangle. A case is presented of a patient whose limb was salvaged by an obturator foramen bypass from the contralateral iliac artery to the profunda femoris artery. This unique case is compared to other published cases to emphasize the potential advantages of the profunda femoris as the preferred graft outflow in selected cases of arterial reconstruction through the obturator foramen. 
Antibiotic treatment of bacterial gastroenteritis. Antibiotic treatment is important in certain etiologies of bacterial gastroenteritis, both for clinical improvement and for eradication of the causative organism from stools, which is important epidemiologically. The etiology, however, is seldom known at presentation in sporadic cases of diarrhea. Thus the decision to initiate antibiotic therapy and the choice of the specific antimicrobial agents should be made on a clinical basis, before culture results are available. 
Regulation of B cell antigen receptor signal transduction and phosphorylation by CD45. CD45 is a member of a family of membrane proteins that possess phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity, and is the source of much of the tyrosine phosphatase activity in lymphocytes. In view of its enzymatic activity and high copy number, it seems likely that CD45 functions in transmembrane signal transduction by lymphocyte receptors that are coupled to activation of tyrosine kinases. The B cell antigen receptor was found to transduce a Ca(2+)-mobilizing signal only if cells expressed CD45. Also, both membrane immunoglobulin M (mIgM) and CD45 were lost from the surface of cells treated with antibody to CD45, suggesting a physical interaction between these proteins. Finally, CD45 dephosphorylated a complex of mIg-associated proteins that appears to function in signal transduction by the antigen receptor. These data indicate that CD45 occurs as a component of a complex of proteins associated with the antigen receptor, and that CD45 may regulate signal transduction by modulating the phosphorylation state of the antigen receptor subunits. 
Multicenter evaluation of efficacy, tolerability and safety of a new first-line antihypertensive drug, isradipine, in a Latin-American population. Isradipine, a new antihypertensive dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, was evaluated for its efficacy, tolerability, and safety in 91 ambulatory patients who had mild-to-moderate hypertension. The design of the present study included a two-week wash-out period after confirmation of disease, followed by 12 weeks of active treatment with 2.5 mg isradipine twice daily. Patients were switched from other antihypertensive drugs, mainly diuretics and beta-blockers. The dose of isradipine remained virtually unchanged throughout the study and resulted in a mean decrease of 22 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure (SBP) (P less than .00001) and 19 mm Hg in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (P less than .00001). Heart rate was unchanged (difference of -1 beats/min), as was the mean body weight of the study patients. Isradipine was generally well tolerated. Side effects were few and, when present, tended to diminish and eventually disappear during the treatment period. All of the clinical laboratory parameters tested and electrocardiograph intervals remained unchanged. In conclusion, these results indicate that isradipine is a novel drug which is highly effective and well tolerated in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension in this group of patients. 
Diagnosis and management of chronic hypertension in pregnancy. Pregnancies complicated by chronic hypertension are at increased risk for the development of superimposed preeclampsia, abruptio placentae, and poor perinatal outcome. The frequency of these complications is particularly increased in patients with severe hypertension and those with preexisting cardiovascular and renal disease. Such women should receive appropriate antihypertensive therapy and frequent evaluations of maternal and fetal well-being. In contrast, in patients with mild essential chronic hypertension, the maternal and perinatal benefits from antihypertensive medications are highly controversial. A review of the literature revealed two placebo-controlled studies, four trials comparing treatment versus no medication, and three comparisons of methyldopa and oxprenolol. In only one of these studies were subjects randomized in the first trimester. No differences in pregnancy outcome were found with the use of antihypertensive drugs. Evaluation of the woman with chronic hypertension who is considering pregnancy should begin before conception to establish the cause and severity of the hypertension. Appropriate management should include frequent evaluation of maternal and fetal well-being; antihypertensive medications may be useful in patients with severe disease as well as in those with target organ involvement. 
Gastroesophageal reflux and upper airway diseases. GER can have important impacts on the upper airway passages, and in turn, upper airway obstruction can certainly aggravate reflux. This relationship should be considered in the newborn or young infant, faced with a sudden life-threatening event, and in the older child or adult presenting with chronic head and neck complaints, either unexplained or unresponsive to adequate medical therapy. A causal relationship may be difficult to establish, based first on clinical expertise as a guideline, on laboratory tests, among which pharyngeal pH monitoring could be promising, and on response to medical antireflux therapy. A better understanding of the significance of high levels of reflux and defective acid clearance, as well as a more precise knowledge of the maturation and functioning of upper airway protective mechanisms, would open the way to more accurate diagnostic procedures, to a more reliable definition of the abnormal, and to greater efficiency in the management of these patients. 
Emergency management of the nondeflating Foley catheter balloon. Inability to remove a self-retaining (Foley) catheter may result from failed attempts to deflate its balloon. In this article, the authors review the causes of inability to deflate Foley catheters as well as the various techniques for their removal. 
Post-prandial worsening of angina: all due to changes in cardiac output? BACKGROUND--The precise mechanism leading to the post-prandial worsening of angina has yet to be adequately defined. It has been attributed to an increase in double product but is perhaps more likely to be related to an increase in cardiac output after food. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of food on patients' exercise tolerance and compare these with changes in haemodynamic variables. METHODS--23 patients with chronic stable angina who had post-prandial worsening of their angina were studied. The patients were evaluated on two occasions and at each visit they underwent two symptom limited treadmill exercise tests. They remained fasting on the first visit and were given a 1400 kcal meal 60 minutes before the second exercise test on the second visit. Time to onset of 1 mm ST segment depression, heart rate, systemic arterial blood pressure, and cardiac output were measured at rest and during exercise. RESULTS--There were no differences in any of the variables during the two exercise tests on the day the patients remained fasting. After the meal exercise tolerance fell significantly by 136 seconds and the stage at which 1 mm ST segment depression was first seen was also significantly reduced. Resting cardiac output increased significantly by 0.86 1/min with the patients sitting and by 0.89 1/min standing. The exercise times after food were significantly related to cardiac output even when fasting times were taken into account. Resting heart rate increased significantly by 8.3 beats per minute sitting and 10.4 beats per minute standing. There was little change in blood pressure and no evidence that the double product predicted the post-prandial exercise time. CONCLUSIONS--Worsening of angina was related to the increase in cardiac output after a meal and successful treatment will depend upon the prevention of this increase. 
Headache spectrum in Arnold-Chiari malformation. Exertional headaches in patients with Arnold-Chiari malformation (ACM) are well described. We report four patients with Type I ACM and recurrent headaches. These patients presented, respectively, with low spinal fluid pressure headache, migraine without aura, migraine with aura, and migraine with prolonged aura. This report suggests the need for observing patients with recurrent headaches for any physical stigmata of craniovertebral junction anomalies, and the need to exclude ACM in such patients. Possible implications of the association between ACM and different types of headaches are discussed. 
Influence of type of prosthesis on late results after combined mitral-aortic valve replacement. The influence of type of prosthesis on the late outcome of patients with combined mitral-aortic valve replacement was analyzed by comparing, at a 14-year follow-up, patients receiving two biological prostheses (group 1; n = 135), two mechanical prostheses (group 2; n = 221), or a mechanical prosthesis in the aortic position and a bioprosthesis in the mitral position (group 3; n = 97). No difference was found among the three groups in terms of actuarial survival and incidence of and freedom from valve-related deaths, thromboemboli, and hemorrhages. Patients with biological prostheses had a significantly greater incidence of structural valve deterioration, reoperations, and overall complications when compared with patients with only mechanical prostheses. The results of an extended follow-up of patients with combined mitral-aortic valve replacement indicate that mechanical prostheses perform better in the long-term owing to their superior durability when compared with biological valves. The use of bioprostheses should be confined to old patients with limited life expectancy because of their cardiac disease, provided that anticoagulants are not used. Combination of mechanical and biological prostheses in the same patient should be avoided because the advantages of each type of prosthesis are lost. 
CT appearance of splenic injuries managed nonoperatively. This essay illustrates the appearance of the traumatized spleen on CT scans obtained during the course of conservative treatment. Although the CT appearance of acute rupture of the spleen has been adequately described, little has been reported about the appearance of the spleen as it heals after trauma. Examples of CT studies of splenic injuries illustrate the various changes in appearance over time in the traumatized spleen that is treated nonoperatively. 
Progress in cancer. Definite progress has been made against cancer since the National Cancer Act was passed in 1971. Physicians are giving increased attention to cancer prevention. The exciting changes in molecular biology provide increased knowledge about basic mechanisms in tumor growth and metastases. Detailed discussions of two common solid cancers--breast and colorectal--attest to continuing advances in cancer diagnosis and treatment. All of these augur well for further progress in oncology. Continued research, basic and clinical, is mandatory. 
Percutaneous posterolateral lumbar discectomy and decompression with a 6.9-millimeter cannula. Analysis of operative failures and complications. The operative failures and complications of percutaneous posterolateral lumbar discectomy were analyzed in 100 patients who had a herniated nucleus pulposus and were prospectively studied and treated with use of a 6.9-millimeter outer-diameter (4.9-millimeter inner-diameter) sheath and manual insertion of the instruments. Twelve operations were considered to have failed, regardless of the length of postoperative follow-up or the incidence of reinjury; eleven patients had a repeat operation at the index level, and one patient was a chronic drug-abuser. In eight of the eleven patients, subsequent laminectomy was successful. Two patients had a psoas hematoma and one had a transitory sensory and distal motor deficit; all of these complications resolved without sequelae. There were no major complications, including superficial or deep infection, and no patient had neurovascular compromise. 
Palliation of proximal malignant biliary obstruction by endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion. For four years up to December 1987, 190 patients (median age 73 years) with proximal malignant biliary obstruction were treated by endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion. Altogether 101 had cholangiocarcinoma, 21 gall bladder carcinoma, 20 local spread of pancreatic carcinoma, and 48 metastatic malignancy. Fifty eight patients had type I, 54 type II, and 78 type III proximal biliary strictures (Bismuth classification). All patients were either unfit or unsuitable for an attempt at curative surgical resection. A single endoprosthesis was placed initially, with a further stent being placed only if relief of cholestasis was insufficient or sepsis developed in undrained segments. The combined percutaneous-endoscopic technique was used to place the endoprosthesis when appropriate, after failed endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion or for second endoprosthesis placement. Full follow up was available in 97%.Thirteen patients were still alive at the time of review and all but one had been treated within the past six months. Initial endoprosthesis insertion succeeded technically at the first attempt in 127 patients, at the second in 30, and at a combined procedure in a further 13 (cumulative total success rate 89% - type I: 93%; type II: 94%; and type III: 84%). There was adequate biliary drainage after single endoprosthesis insertion in 152 of the 170 successful placements, giving an overall successful drainage rate of 80%. Three patients had a second stent placed by combined procedure because of insufficient drainage, giving an overall successful drainage rate of 82% (155 of 190). The final overall drainage success rates were type I: 91%; type II: 83%; and type III: 73%. The early complication rates were type I: 7%; type II: 14%; and type III: 31%. 
Complications after intravesical instillation of bacillus Calmette-Guerin: rhabdomyolysis and metastatic infection. Two cases of adverse reaction to bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) bladder instillations are reported. In both cases transient fevers and systemic symptoms developed following the instillations. After an additional instillation 1 patient had high fevers, severe myalgias and profound weakness followed by rhabdomyolysis and anuric renal failure, which required 3 weeks of hemodialysis before recovery. Extensive evaluation revealed no cause other than the BCG instillations. In the other patient a firm subcutaneous nodule gradually developed on the chest wall, which contained nonviable acid fast bacilli. 
Recurrence of ectopic pregnancy: the role of salpingitis. We evaluated the role of salpingitis on the recurrence of ectopic pregnancy from a historical cohort of 2501 women who had undergone laparoscopic examination for acute salpingitis. We used pregnancy (N = 2899) as the unit of analysis and a modified conditional logistic regression to estimate a pairwise odds ratio as a measure of the recurrence of ectopic pregnancy. Among the second or higher order of pregnancy, the recurrence was 21.7%. For pregnancies with a prior uterine pregnancy, the ectopic pregnancy rate increased with prior salpingitis scores constructed from a combination of prior salpingitis episodes and severity (0 score, 2.7%; 1 to 2 scores, 4.8%; and greater than or equal to 3 scores, 12.1%). For those with a prior ectopic pregnancy, the rate did not increase with prior salpingitis scores (score 0, 20.0%; score 1 or 2, 19.2%; and score greater than or equal to 3, 26.9%). The adjusted pairwise odds ratio was 2.2 and was practically unchanged (2.1) after additional adjustment with prior salpingitis scores. These findings confirm salpingitis as a risk factor for first ectopic pregnancy, but once a woman had an ectopic pregnancy, previous salpingitis might not add any incremental risk. 
Effectiveness of nitrous oxide in a rural EMS system. Prehospital systems need a safe, effective analgesic agent for the treatment of patients suffering from pain. Recent studies have documented the efficacy of nitrous oxide in urban and rural settings. This study reviews the findings on 200 patients (157 trauma, 23 medical, 18 musculoskeletal problems) who received nitrous oxide during a 28-month period in a rural EMS system. Eighty-five percent of the patients reported pain relief. Only minor side effects were noted. Patient satisfaction was high, and there was no abuse noted among personnel. 
Iatrogenic epidermoid cyst of the parotid region following ear surgery. Iatrogenic implantation of squamous epithelium may result in formation of an epidermoid cyst. These cysts have been described in various sites around the head and neck following otological procedures. A case of iatrogenic epidermal cyst in the parotid region following repeated myringoplasty is reported. The clinical features and differential diagnosis are discussed. 
Epidural blood patch for treatment of subarachnoid fistula in children. A subarachnoid-cutaneous fistula developed in two children after the placement of a catheter in the subarachnoid space for drainage of cerebrospinal fluid. The management of this iatrogenic complication with epidural blood patch is described. 
The value of estrogen and progesterone receptor determinations in advanced breast cancer. Estrogen receptor level but not progesterone receptor level correlates with response to tamoxifen. Four hundred fifteen patients with metastatic breast cancer with known hormone receptor status received primary treatment with tamoxifen. Measured values for the estrogen receptor (ER, i.e., with estrogen binding) followed a continuous distribution (range, 3 to 1000 fmol/mg of protein). These values correlated positively with age. The response to treatment with tamoxifen correlated with the ER level, with response rates of approximately 80% when the ER level was greater than 30.1 fmol/mg of protein. Two hundred eighteen (218 of 415, 52%) patients had progesterone receptor (PR) values greater than 10 fmol/mg. The PR positivity correlated with the ER level. Patients with PR levels greater than 10 fmol/mg of protein (124 of 226, 55%) had a significantly higher response rate than those with values less than 10 fmol/mg of protein (45 of 189, 24%). However, in a multivariate analysis including both receptor levels, age, site, and number of metastases, only the ER level was significant in predicting the response to treatment with tamoxifen. A quantitative estimation of the ER level thus is the best predictor of response to hormonal treatment with tamoxifen for advanced breast cancer. 
Regional intravenous ketanserin and guanethidine therapy in Raynaud's phenomenon. The authors report the results of a study of 25 patients with Raynaud's phenomenon (primary, posttraumatic, and secondary to diffuse connective tissue diseases) treated with regional intravenous injections of guanethidine or ketanserin. These two drugs were chosen because of the different etiopathologic profiles of the conditions. All the patients showed a substantial clinical improvement with a remission of trophic lesions. Conditions secondary to connective tissue disorders did not demonstrate much improvement based on instrumental data alone, possibly because of the intrinsic limitations of the techniques used for evaluating peripheral blood flow. This specific type of pharmaceutical treatment appeared to be especially suitable for this disease owing to a combination of therapeutic efficacy and a substantial reduction in the total dosage for each patient. 
The axial load teardrop fracture. A biomechanical, clinical and roentgenographic analysis. The anteroinferior cervical vertebral body corner fracture was originally described by Schneider and Cann as the "teardrop" fracture. This report analyzes the biomechanical, clinical, and roentgenographic features of 55 such fractures obtained from the National Football Head and Neck Injury Registry. Teardrop fractures resulting from tackle football characteristically occurred in players attempting to make a tackle in which initial contact was made with the top or crown of the helmet. There were two fracture patterns associated with the anteroinferior corner (teardrop) fracture fragment: 1) the isolated fracture, which is usually not associated with permanent neurologic sequelae; and 2) the three-part, two-plane fracture in which there is an associated sagittal vertebral body fracture as well as fracture of the posterior neural arch. This latter pattern was almost always associated with permanent neurologic sequelae, specifically quadriplegia. Axial loading of the cervical spine was clearly identified as a mechanism of injury for both fracture patterns. Roentgenographic examination must include both anteroposterior and lateral views with computed tomography or tomography as necessary to determine the presence of the sagittal vertebral body fracture and the integrity of the posterior neural arch. 
Facial weakness. A comparison of clinical and photographic methods of observation. The search for an internationally acceptable facial grading system has resulted in an assessment of existing methods by several investigators. These studies were based on observations of video film taken of patients with varying degrees of facial malfunction. Although the grading systems were evaluated, the use of videotape has never been compared with clinical examination and its suitability for this type of work is, therefore, unknown. We used nine facial grading systems to compare the results of clinical observation with those of photographic methods of presentation. The latter included videotape, photographic slides, and a combination of the two. The correlation between clinical examination findings and findings of any of the photographic methods was poor, suggesting the need for a standard form of presentation when grading patients. The most consistent results were found with either clinical examination or photographic slides; videotape was the least reliable. 
Pattern of simulated snoring is different through mouth and nose. Cineradiography of the pharynx during simulated snoring was done in 6 healthy volunteers, and supraglottic pressure and flow rate were recorded in 12 others. We observed, immediately before snoring, a decrease in the sagittal diameter of the oropharynx followed, during snoring, by high-frequency oscillations of soft palate and pharyngeal walls. The pattern of soft palate oscillations was different while snoring through the nose or mouth. During inspiratory snoring through the nose, the soft palate remained in close contact with the back of the tongue and only the uvula presented high-frequency oscillations. Snoring through the mouth resulted in ample high-frequency oscillations of the whole soft palate. Frequency of airflow and supraglottic pressure oscillations was less (P less than 0.05) during mouth (28.2 +/- 7.5 Hz) than during nasal snoring (77.8 +/- 36.7 Hz). This difference may be related to the smaller oscillating mass (i.e., uvula) during nasal snoring. At variance with our previous data, which showed that snoring during sleep, in both heavy (nonapneic) snorers and obstructive sleep apnea patients, was systematically preceded by flow limitation, this was not true during simulated snoring. 
Defining the proper role for self-administered sublingual nitroglycerin. A survey of physicians and patients. Within a half-year period, we encountered six cases of patients harmed by the adverse effects of self-administered nitroglycerin--syncope, delayed definitive medical care, and the worsening of nonischemic symptoms. We therefore surveyed 112 patients after a remote myocardial infarction, and 121 cardiologists and internists, regarding the use of sublingual nitroglycerin. Of the physicians, 84 percent routinely prescribed nitroglycerin to patients after a myocardial infarction, and 79 percent of the patients had the tablets available (83 percent of these, at all times). Most patients used the tablets less than once per month, and 37 percent of the patients who always carried nitroglycerin had not used it at all during the preceding year. Although 89 percent of the patients claimed to know when to use the drug, 57 percent had used it or would use it for symptoms such as dizziness, rapid heartbeat, or presyncope. All patients having nitroglycerin claimed it relieved their symptoms, even if the relief was only partial, the time elapsed until relief could not be specified, and the symptoms were of a type unlikely to be relieved by the drug. We suggest that the practice of routinely prescribing nitroglycerin to patients after a myocardial infarction should be reassessed. 
Clinical course and roentgenographic changes of osteonecrosis in the femoral condyle under conservative treatment. The history of osteonecrosis in the femoral condyle of the knee was observed in 15 knees in 14 patients, averaging 62.8 years in age (range, 23-79 years). There were nine women and five men. The average follow-up period was 4.9 years (range, one to 12 years). Spontaneous osteonecrosis was found in 11 patients and steroid-induced osteonecrosis in three. The medial femoral condyles were involved in 13 knees and the lateral femoral condyles in two. The maximum width of the lesion was measured on anteroposterior roentgenograms and an osteonecrotic lesion less than 10 mm wide was rated as small. Cases of small osteonecrotic lesions displayed no remarkable changes with respect to stages and limb alignment. The average size of the steroid-induced osteonecrotic lesions was significantly larger than that of the spontaneous type. The size of the osteonecrotic lesions at the follow-up examination was compared to that observed at the initial diagnosis in 12 knees. Eight of these lesions displayed increases in dimension of more than 18% over the initial size at diagnosis. 
Safety and cost effectiveness of combined coronary angiography and angioplasty. If coronary angioplasty can be safely performed at the time of the initial diagnostic catheterization, it may result in shorter hospitalization stays and lower overall costs. Combined coronary angiography and angioplasty was performed electively on 733 patients between January 1, 1984, and September 1, 1988. These patients were divided into three major subgroups based upon their indications for angioplasty: 444 (61%) procedures were performed for restenosis; 190 (26%) procedures were performed in patients for unstable angina; and 99 (13%) procedures were performed in patients without unstable angina or previous angioplasty. A subset of 219 patients from this study who underwent elective combined coronary angiography and angioplasty during 1986 were compared with a matched population of 191 patients from the angiography and angioplasty as separate procedures). The success and complication rates were similar for both of these groups. Patients who underwent the combined procedure were hospitalized for a mean of 4.6 days with average total charges of $11,128, compared with 8.0 days and $13,160 for patients undergoing separate procedures (p less than 0.001). Significant savings were also realized with respect to total contrast dose, fluoroscopic time, and total procedural time. Thus in informed patients with suitable coronary anatomy, the strategy of combined angiography and angioplasty may present an opportunity for decreasing hospitalization stay, reducing total charges for revascularization, and reducing radiation exposure without compromising the safety or effectiveness of the procedure. 
Prospective study of porous-coated anatomic total hip arthroplasty. Seventy-five uncemented porous-coated total hip prostheses were implanted in 64 patients. The results were reviewed after a mean follow-up period of 47 months (range, 40-64 months). The mean preoperative rating was fair, and the mean postoperative rating was excellent. There were six dislocations. Ten patients had mild thigh pain at one year; by two years, the pain had resolved in six patients. Neither moderate nor severe limp nor significant loosening of beads was observed. Only one patient had progressive radiolucent lines. The high rate of dislocation may be related to a compromise of acetabular position to obtain bony fixation in acetabula early in the series. The clinical results were encouraging. 
Comparison of the effects of torasemide and furosemide in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients with ascites: a randomized, double-blind study. In a randomized double-blind trial we compared the effects of torasemide, a new loop diuretic, and furosemide in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients with ascites during a 3-day period in association with potassium canrenoate (200 mg/day) administration. Doses of loop diuretics administered in this trial (10 and 25 mg/day of torasemide and furosemide, respectively) had been shown to be equipotent in healthy subjects. Torasemide induced significantly greater natriuresis than furosemide (p less than 0.02), with a twofold greater percentage increase in basal values (day 1: 130% vs. 50%; day 2: 104% vs. 42%; and day 3: 65% vs. 26%, respectively). Body weight loss was significantly higher during torasemide (p less than 0.02) administration, and the overall decrease at the end of the treatment was twice as high for furosemide (2.5 +/- 0.6 kg vs. 1.3 +/- 0.4 kg, respectively). Diuresis was also higher during torasemide administration, but the difference was not significant (p = 0.08). The extent of kaliuresis observed during the two treatments was almost identical despite the striking differences in the natriuretic response. The effects of the two treatments on plasma electrolytes, creatinine clearance, blood urea nitrogen, mean arterial pressure, heart rate and plasma arginine vasopressin concentration were similar. Both drugs caused increases in plasma renin activity at the end of the treatment, whereas plasma aldosterone concentration slightly increased only after torasemide administration. Despite the presence of a trend toward a more pronounced effect on these parameters after torasemide administration, no significant difference between the two treatments was observed. 
Reduction in the frequency of ventricular late potentials after acute myocardial infarction by early thrombolytic therapy. Ventricular late potentials are strong predictors of arrhythmic events after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). To assess the effect of intravenous thrombolysis on the incidence of ventricular late potentials, 223 consecutive patients surviving a first AMI were included in the present study: 59 patients (53 men, 6 women, mean age +/- standard deviation 55 +/- 10 years) received intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (100 mg over 3 hours, group A) and 164 patients (123 men, 41 women, mean age 61 +/- 11 years) received conventional medical treatment (group B). A time-domain signal-averaged electrocardiogram and a high-resolution beat-to-beat recording (gain 10(6), filters 100 to 300 Hz) were performed at 10 +/- 3 days after AMI. There was no difference between group A and B patients in terms of AMI location (anterior in 28 of 59 vs 80 of 164, difference not significant [NS]), mean left ventricular ejection fraction (55 +/- 10 vs 55 +/- 13%, NS), or presence of heart failure (New York Heart Association class III or IV in 12 of 59 vs 40 of 164, NS). The incidence of ventricular late potentials was 10% (6 of 59) in group A and 24% (39 of 164) in group B (p less than 0.05). Among the 146 patients who underwent coronary arteriography, the incidence of ventricular late potentials was 13% (10 of 80) in patients with a patent infarct-related artery and 26% (17 of 66) in patients with an occluded infarct-related artery (p less than 0.05). 
Aztreonam monotherapy as prophylaxis in transurethral resection of the prostate: a multicenter study. The efficacy and safety of aztreonam in the prophylaxis of urinary tract infection following transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) in patients with preoperatively sterile urine were studied in a multicenter trial including 300 patients at six Italian urology centers. The present report describes the first 192 patients enrolled in the protocol. Aztreonam or placebo was administered to each patient in three doses, which were given at the induction of anesthesia and 8 and 16 hours later. The development of bacteriuria was monitored by cultures of urine obtained before surgery, 3 days later, at removal of the bladder catheter, at discharge from the hospital, and at a follow-up visit 39-46 days after surgery. A febrile peak was observed for 6% of aztreonam-treated patients and for 20.9% of the placebo group (P less than .005), while bacteriuria was reported in 17.9% and 59.3% of these groups, respectively (P less than .001). From our data, TURP appears to be a clean-contaminated procedure requiring antibiotic prophylaxis, and aztreonam appears to reduce significantly the incidence of postoperative bacteriuria after this surgical procedure. 
Ocular findings in Turcot syndrome (glioma-polyposis). Turcot syndrome is a hereditary condition characterized by multiple, adenomatous gastrointestinal polyps associated with neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system. The authors examined a patient with Turcot syndrome who had multiple regions of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (CHRPE) with areas of surrounding hypopigmentation in the fundi of both eyes. Multiple, bilateral patches of CHRPE have been reported in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis and Gardner syndrome. This finding is thought to be a sensitive and specific clinical marker for these conditions and useful for predicting the presence and development of colorectal polyposis. Our findings provide further evidence that familial adenomatous polyposis, Gardner syndrome, and Turcot syndrome may be related conditions representing the variable phenotypic expression of a single, autosomal dominant genetic disorder. Children and young adults with multiple patches of CHRPE and a family history of adenomatous polyposis may be at increased risk for the development of central nervous system tumors as well as gastrointestinal polyps. 
Hemobilia due to vasculitis of the gall bladder in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease. A 30-year-old woman with mixed connective tissue disease presented with acute abdominal pain and signs of blood loss. At cholecystectomy she appeared to have lost a considerable amount of blood into the biliary tract due to bleeding of the gall bladder. Microscopic examination showed vasculitis of the gall bladder wall. Hemobilia has not been described before as a complication in mixed connective tissue disease. 
Use of a marshmallow bolus for evaluating lower esophageal mucosal rings. Sixty-three patients (35 women, 28 men; mean age 55 yr) with lower esophageal mucosal ring shown radiographically were examined with a semi-solid bolus consisting of a portion of a standard marshmallow. The most common symptom was dysphagia, present in 46 (73%) patients. Impaction of the marshmallow bolus by the ring occurred in 40 (63%) of the 63 patients, and produced symptoms in 27 (68%) of these 40 patients. Nine (14%) rings were detected radiographically only with a solid bolus; eight of these patients had dysphagia and seven rings were 20 mm or less in caliber. Impaction related to ring caliber, and was found in all 17 (100%) rings that were 13 mm or less in diameter, in 17/24 (71%) 14- to 19-mm rings, and in 6/22 (27%) rings 20 mm or more in caliber. Endoscopy in 23 patients detected 16 (70%) rings, and also depended on ring caliber: less than or equal to 13 mm, 6/6 (100%); 14-19 mm, 5/9 (56%); greater than or equal to 20 mm, 5/8 (63%). Marshmallow impaction occurred in 17 (74%) of 23 patients who had endoscopy; three of the 23 patients had normal endoscopy. In conclusion, radiographic examination supplemented by the use of a marshmallow bolus best detects lower esophageal mucosal ring. 
Role of duplex scanning for the detection of atherosclerotic renal artery disease. To assess the accuracy of renal artery duplex scanning for the purpose of diagnosing atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis, we compared the findings of renal arteriograms to the results of duplex scanning in 41 patients. Using an increase of renal artery peak systolic flow velocity of greater than 180 cm/sec, duplex scanning was able to discriminate normal from diseased renal arteries with a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 90%. Using the principle that blood flow velocity across a stenosis is roughly proportional to the degree of stenosis, it appeared that a ratio of the peak velocity in the renal artery to the aorta (RAR) of greater 3.5 predicted a greater than 60% diameter reduction of that renal artery, which is felt to be a significant stenosis. Forty-eight vessels were classified as having a greater than 60% diameter reduction by arteriography. Using the RAR of greater than 3.5, duplex scanning agreed in 44 renal arteries (sensitivity 92%). In the 26 renal arteries where arteriography showed a less than 60% diameter reduction, duplex scanning agreed in 16 vessels and correctly detected a focal narrowing in nine of the remaining ten vessels. Ten of 11 occluded renal arteries were correctly identified by duplex scanning. Duplex scanning determined the location of the renal artery lesion with an accuracy of 95% (kappa 0.74). Since duplex scanning can accurately demonstrate and locate focal renal artery stenosis, we believe it may become an accurate screening test for renovascular hypertension. 
Histopathological validation of high frequency epicardial echocardiography of the coronary arteries in vitro. The accuracy and reliability of measurement of coronary artery dimensions and detection of atherosclerotic lesions by high frequency epicardial echocardiography were compared with histopathological results. Ten pressure perfused human hearts were examined in vitro with a 10 MHz (Diasonics) transducer and a 7.5 MHz (Vingmed/Sonotron) transducer. There was close agreement between ultrasound and pathological measurements of coronary artery luminal diameter. Qualitative changes in wall structure such as diffuse wall thickening and calcification were readily identified; however, the resolution of the transducers was not high enough accurately to measure wall dimensions in normal coronary arteries. Coefficient of variation measurements for intra and inter observer variability (5.2% and 6.9% respectively) showed excellent reproducibility. The technique was accurate in identifying atherosclerotic lesions, imaging arteries distal to an occlusion, locating deeply sited arteries, and identifying complete obliteration of an artery. Intraoperative video playback and transducer miniaturisation may minimise problems caused by cardiac movement and restricted access. With these developments intraoperative assessment of coronary artery disease may become a real possibility. 
The natural history of diabetic femoral neuropathy Diabetic femoral neuropathy is an uncommon, unpleasant and sometimes disabling condition, on account of both pain and muscular atrophy, whose long-term prognosis has not previously been documented. We have reviewed a group of 27 patients up to 14 years (median 62 months) after diagnosis; 18 of these were re-examined after an average of nearly 4 years (median 45 months). The condition was more common in non-insulin-dependent diabetics (88 per cent), in men (59 per cent) and in older patients (median age at diagnosis 64 years). The neuropathy was bilateral (10 cases) or unilateral (17 cases); five patients with unilateral neuropathy developed femoral neuropathy on the opposite side, usually within a few weeks of the first episode. Recovery was apparent after 3 months and usually complete by 18 months; only two of the 27 patients had severe relapses. No patients remained disabled, although there were minor residual symptoms and signs in half of the patients (2 cm reduction in thigh circumference and diminished reflexes). The outlook for femoral neuropathy, even in its most severe form, is therefore very good: residual features are demonstrable but do not cause symptoms, and relapses after the first few weeks are very rare. 
Effects of a multidimensional cardiopulmonary rehabilitation program on psychosocial function. The effects of participation in a structured, outpatient cardiac rehabilitation program on psychosocial function after acute myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass surgery, or both, were evaluated prospectively in 141 patients who were married or living with "a significant other" (89% men, mean [+/- standard deviation] age 63 +/- 9 years old). Forty-one patients who were participants in a 3-month cardiac rehabilitation program were compared with 100 patients who did not participate in a formal program. On average, patients in both groups were well educated, older Caucasians who had minimal cardiac dysfunction (New York Heart Association class I or II). Patients in the 2 groups were not different at baseline in sociodemographic or clinical characteristics or in any of the dependent measures of anxiety, depression, psychosocial adjustment to illness or marital adjustment. Six months after initial testing, patients who attended cardiac rehabilitation were significantly less anxious (F[1,139] = 5.09, p = 0.03), less depressed (F[1,139] = 8.39, p = 0.004), had better psychosocial adjustment (F[1,139] = 5.87, p = 0.02), and were more satisfied with their marriages (F[1,139] = 8.6, p = 0.004) than nonparticipants. The findings support the effectiveness of group cardiac rehabilitation for this subgroup of patients in facilitating their psychosocial recovery after an acute cardiac event. 
Plasma norepinephrine concentrations during resuscitation in the dog. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the adrenal glands contribute to the increase in plasma norepinephrine concentrations during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, by releasing norepinephrine and/or by secreting epinephrine that facilitates the release of norepinephrine from sympathetic nerve endings via stimulation of presynaptic beta receptors. The experiments were performed in adrenalectomized and in sham-operated dogs. In adrenalectomized dogs the increase in plasma norepinephrine concentrations during cardiopulmonary arrest and basic life support (BLS) was markedly smaller than in sham-operated dogs. Intravenous infusion of physiologic doses of epinephrine during BLS in adrenalectomized animals did not influence the plasma norepinephrine concentrations. These data indicate that, as suggested by others, the marked increase in plasma norepinephrine concentrations during BLS in dogs is mainly of adrenomedullary origin. They also suggest that presynaptic facilitation of norepinephrine release by epinephrine is not important, but further experiments using higher doses of epinephrine are necessary. 
Defective lymphokine-activated killer cell generation and activity in acute leukemia patients with active disease. In 26 myeloid and lymphoid acute leukemia patients at presentation the capacity to generate interleukin-2 (IL-2)-induced lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells effective against the natural killer (NK)-resistant Raji cell line, as well as the susceptibility of the blasts to normal peripheral blood (PB) LAK cells and to autologous LAK effectors was analyzed. The overall PB LAK activity against Raji cells was significantly lower in acute leukemia patients compared with normal controls (mean, 1,473 +/- 971 SD LU/10(8) LAK effectors v 3,340 +/- 1,862; P less than .001). The sensitivity of the blasts to autologous LAK cells was also significantly lower than to normal LAK effectors (517 +/- 593 LU/10(8) LAK effectors v 1,304 +/- 1,066; P less than .01). When the data were analyzed independently, four patterns of behavior could be recognized. The relatively largest group (9 of 26) included patients in whom effective LAK cells could be generated against the Raji line, but in whom the blasts were resistant to autologous PB-LAK effectors while being susceptible to normal LAK cells (defective specific LAK activity). In 5 of 26 cases, an incapacity to generate LAK activity against both allogeneic and autologous target cells was observed (defective LAK generation). In six further cases, the blasts were resistant to both allogeneic and autologous LAK populations, though the latter were effective against the Raji line (resistant blasts). The same defects could also be shown with bone marrow-derived LAK cells. Only in six cases did the leukemic blasts appear susceptible to autologous and allogeneic LAK cells. In four patients the analysis could be repeated at remission, and in three a restoration of the LAK function against the primary blasts was recorded. In the 10 cases studied at relapse, the blasts were resistant to autologous LAK effectors in nine and to normal LAK in seven. These data demonstrate that in most acute leukemia patients with active disease, a defect of the LAK machinery, either a deficient generation of LAK cells or the resistance of the blasts to LAK effectors, may be documented, pointing therefore to a possible contributory role of the LAK system in the control of leukemic cell growth. In view of the frequent normalization of the autologous LAK activity at the time of remission, immunotherapy with IL-2/LAK cells should be primarily aimed to patients with minimal residual disease. 
Pharyngeal pouch carcinoma: two unusual cases. Two patients with carcinomata arising in pharyngeal pouches are reported. In one, the tumour was detected preoperatively by a contrast radiographic study. In the second the lesion was a carcinoma in situ. The English literature is reviewed with reference to these two unusual features. 
Middle ear inflammatory mediators and cochlear function. Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) has been documented in patients with otitis media. Despite a number of clinical and pathologic works dealing with this common problem, animal studies searching for possible relationships between the middle ear inflammation and cochlear function remain insufficient. Bacterial inoculation and ototoxins and inflammatory products in the middle ear cavity cause SNHL in rodents. Human serum albumin placed in the middle ear cavity in chinchillas also produces SNHL, owing to the effects of nonspecific inflammation in the middle ear cavity. Most of the middle ear inflammatory mediators enter the inner ear through the round window route, and alteration of the permeability of the round window membrane plays an important role in causing cochlear dysfunction. Although an immunologic response in the middle ear plays an important role in otitis media, the immunologic response in the inner ear as it relates to middle ear inflammatory mediators requires further study. 
Cerebrospinal fluid leaks and meningitis in acoustic neuroma surgery. Cerebrospinal fluid leaks and associated meningitis are the most common life-threatening complications of surgery for acoustic neuromas. This retrospective study reviews 319 patients who had surgery for 321 acoustic tumors at the Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center, University of Toronto, from April 1975 to March 1990. Cerebrospinal fluid leaks occurred after 13.4% of primary tumor operations. Surgical repair was required in 6.2% of all patients; 4.4% needed more than one operation. Meningitis occurred in 5.3% of all patients. These complications were more common in larger tumors and after the combined translabyrinthine middle fossa approach. Transnasopharyngeal eustachian tube obliteration was used to stop recurrent cerebrospinal fluid leaks in two patients. 
Progesterone receptor gene restriction fragment length polymorphisms in human breast tumors. We examined the progesterone receptor (PgR) gene in tissue from both primary human breast tumors and normal placentas, detecting restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) with the restriction endonucleases Pst I/Sst I and HindIII. There was a general agreement of the Pst I and Sst I polymorphisms in any individual tumor, suggesting that they define two alleles in the human PgR locus, one being characterized by a deletion of about 300 base pairs with respect to the other. Both primary human breast tumor specimens (n = 36) and human term placentas (n = 48) displayed similar allele frequencies and typical mendelian distribution of these Pst I/Sst I alleles. The previously reported HindIII PgR RFLP was also investigated in 132 breast tumors. The HindIII PgR gene RFLP did not display typical mendelian distribution in the breast tumors; the factors affecting the HindIII allele frequencies are presently unknown. Neither the HindIII RFLP nor the deletion defined by Pst I and Sst I correlated with PgR expression as determined by a ligand-binding assay, suggesting that neither is related to the heterogeneity of PgR expression seen in breast tumors. 
Destructive lesions in demyelinating disease. Three cases are presented in which clinical and radiological features suggested the diagnosis of glioma but surgical biopsy revealed a demyelinating process, with tissue destruction and cyst formation in two. One patient had clinically definite multiple sclerosis. Two had probable acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. Treatment with high dose steroids is appropriate when there is clinical or investigative evidence to suggest the presence of demyelinating disease, before deciding on biopsy. 
Transmural distribution of myocardial edema by NMR relaxometry following myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. To determine the distribution and extent of myocardial edema resulting from ischemia and reperfusion, seven open-chest dogs underwent occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery for 2 hours (group I), and 10 underwent occlusion for 2 hours and reperfusion for 2 hours (group II). Proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (T1 and T2 relaxation times) and percent water content were determined to quantitate the amount of edema. There was a transmural increase of the T1 relaxation time of the central ischemic zone in groups I and II, although this increase was significantly greater in group II in both the subendocardium (group I = 707.8 +/- 12.5 msec, group II = 813.2 +/- 36.2 msec; p less than 0.01) and subepicardium (group I = 641.7 +/- 20.5 msec, group II = 760.5 +/- 34.7 msec; p less than 0.01). These increases were also observed in the T2 weighted relaxation time in the subendocardium (group I = 54.7 +/- 0.8 msec, group II = 78.7 +/- 6.3 msec; p less than 0.005) and subepicardium (group I = 54.0 +/- 1.4 msec, group II = 73.1 +/- 4.0 msec; p less than 0.001). Transmural differences were evident between the myocardial layers with increased T1 relaxation times (p less than 0.01) in the subendocardium in both groups. Similar increases were noted in the percent water content of the myocardium. Thus T1 and T2 relaxation times lengthened with an increase in myocardial water content following occlusion, and these relaxation times were augmented by reperfusion. We conclude that ischemia-induced edema occurs in a transmural distribution from subendocardium to subepicardium following occlusion, and this edema is further enhanced by reperfusion. 
Tubal occlusion after inguinal hernia repair. A case report. Midtubal occlusion and infertility occurred subsequent to an inguinal hernia repair. Recognition of the traumatic etiology is important because other causes of midtubal obstruction, such as endometriosis, tuberculosis and adenomatoid tumor of the oviduct, may be considered contraindications to reconstructive surgery. Once recognized, the condition is highly amendable to microsurgical reconstruction. 
Role of fine catheter peritoneal cytology and laparoscopy in the management of acute abdominal pain. Laparoscopy and fine catheter peritoneal cytology (FCPC) have been advocated as aids in the assessment of acute abdominal pain. In all, 411 patients admitted to a district general hospital during a 10-month period were managed using a standard protocol incorporating these techniques. After initial assessment by a surgical registrar, 151 patients were excluded from further progress through the protocol (age less than 16 years, definite diagnosis made or contraindication to FCPC. The remaining 260 patients were placed in one of four management groups: (A) urgent operation (23 patients); (B) 'look and see' (40 patients); (C) 'wait and see' (59 patients); (D) urgent operation not indicated (138 patients). Eighty-eight of 99 patients (88 per cent) in groups B and C, where the need for operation was uncertain, underwent successful FCPC and 39 patients (39 per cent) underwent laparoscopy. In these patients the initial registrar management decision proved to be incorrect in 33 cases (33 per cent), but by following the protocol the number of management errors actually made was reduced to 13 (13 per cent, P less than 0.001). This would have been reduced to 8 per cent if the protocol had not been violated in five patients. This study demonstrates the effectiveness of a protocol using FCPC and laparoscopy to improve the management of patients with acute abdominal pain. 
Association between the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and infection with Salmonella typhi or Salmonella paratyphi in an endemic typhoid area. Eight cases of typhoid and paratyphoid fever were identified during a 4-year period in a cohort of 117 patients who were positive for human immunodeficiency virus in Lima, Peru. Asymptomatic patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and patients with the lymphadenopathy syndrome had a typical clinical presentation and response to therapy. Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who were culture positive for Salmonella typhi or Salmonella paratyphi presented with fulminant diarrhea and/or colitis; the two patients for whom at least 2 months of follow-up were available relapsed. In our cohort there were 0.06 cases of typhoid or paratyphoid per patient year of observation; this rate is approximately 60 times that in the general population in Lima, and 25 times that in the 15- to 35-year-old age group. Our data indicate that patients who are positive for human immunodeficiency virus are at significantly increased risk for infection with S typhi and S paratyphi, and suggest that the clinical presentation of these diseases in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome differs from that seen immunocompetent hosts. 
The roles of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and percutaneous nephrostolithotomy in the management of pyelocaliceal diverticula. Various combinations of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) and percutaneous nephrostolithotomy were used in the treatment of 40 stone-containing caliceal diverticula in 39 patients (16 men and 23 women). Only 1 of 26 patients (4%) treated with ESWL as a single modality became stone-free, although 9 (36%) became asymptomatic. Ten patients undergoing ESWL primarily eventually required percutaneous nephrostolithotomy due to persistence of symptoms and all became stone-free. A total of 14 patients underwent a percutaneous approach as a single modality, and the diverticula in 13 of these patients became stone-free, although 2 patients did have residual parenchymal fragments. Therefore, 21 of 24 patients (87.5%) became completely free of stones using the percutaneous approach. All patients managed with percutaneous nephrostolithotomy became free of symptoms. The complex nature of access during percutaneous nephrostolithotomy favors a 1-stage approach with direct puncture into the stone-containing diverticulum. Simultaneous fulguration of the diverticulum at percutaneous nephrostolithotomy is favored, since all 17 patients in whom this technique was used had complete obliteration of the diverticulum on followup contrast studies. These data suggest that caliceal diverticula should be managed with percutaneous nephrostolithotomy, since ESWL monotherapy is unlikely to produce a stone-free or symptom-free status. 
Five-year survival for cisplatin-based chemotherapy versus single-agent melphalan in patients with advanced ovarian cancer and optimal debulking surgery. The purpose of this study was to evaluate 5-year survival and 5-year progression-free survival in previously untreated patients with advanced ovarian cancer treated with single-agent melphalan in which very few patients underwent optimal debulking surgery (less than 2 cm residual) as compared with the patients treated with Cisplatin-based chemotherapy in which most patients underwent optimal debulking surgery. Significant increases in 5-year survival and 5-year progression-free survival were noted as we changed from the melphalan trial, in which only 14% underwent optimal debulking surgery, to PAC-H, in which 57% and the PAC trial in which 90%, respectively, underwent optimal debulking surgery. However, for those patients whose tumors were optimally debulked in the three trials, there were no statistically significant differences in median survival, median progression-free survival, 5-year survival, or 5-year progression-free survival in those patients treated with melphalan, PAC-H, or PAC. Without optimal debulking surgery, Cisplatin-based multiagent chemotherapy offered a small survival advantage. These results are similar to that reported by Gruppo Interregionale Cooperativo Oncologico Ginecologia, in which survival curves were identical for all the subgroups of chemotherapy regimens for those patients with residual disease less than 2 cm at the onset of chemotherapy whether they received (1) cyclophosphamide; (2) cyclophosphamide and Adriamycin; (3) cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, and Cisplatin; (4) cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, and hexamethylmelamine; (5) Cisplatin and cyclophosphamide; (6) low-dose Cisplatin; (7) high-dose Cisplatin; or (8) carboplatin. 
Menstrual symptoms in women with pelvic endometriosis. OBJECTIVE--To investigate menstrual symptoms in relation to pelvic pathology. DESIGN--A prospective questionnaire-based study. SETTING--Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Scotland. SUBJECTS--1250 questionnaires were sent out prior to planned admission and 1200 women (96%) brought the completed questionnaires. They comprised 598 women undergoing laparoscopic sterilization, 312 having laparoscopy because of infertility, 156 having laparoscopy because of chronic pelvic pain and 134 women undergoing abdominal hysterectomy for dysfunctional uterine bleeding. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--The occurrence of dysmenorrhoea, menorrhagia, menstrual regularity, premenstrual spotting, deep dyspareunia and pelvic pain in women with either endometriosis and post infective pelvic adhesions or a normal pelvis. RESULTS--Menorrhagia, menstrual irregularity and premenstrual spotting occurred with equal frequency in all groups. Deep dyspareunia, pain after intercourse and recurrent pain unrelated to menstruation or coitus was more common in women with endometriosis and those with post infective pelvic adhesions than in those with a normal pelvis. Dysmenorrhoea appears to be more prevalent among women having endometriosis. CONCLUSIONS--Menstrual symptoms, while raising a high index of suspicion for endometriosis, are not entirely reliable as indicators of disease. Dysmenorrhoea is the most common reported symptom in endometriosis sufferers. Diagnostic laparoscopy should be considered before institution of treatment in women complaining of pelvic pain and menstrual symptoms. 
In vitro maturation of mononuclear phagocytes and susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. In the present report, we have studied the in vitro transition of normal blood monocytes to macrophages by changes in cell morphology, and the expression of surface antigens with a panel of monoclonal antibodies. The maturation process was accompanied by notable changes in cell-surface markers in a time-dependent manner. The percentage of cells expressing CD11c, ICAM-1, HLA-DR, and Fc receptor class III increased while the CD4 and CD35 expression was markedly decreased. After demonstrating that in vitro monocytes mature to macrophages in a recognizable manner, we studied the susceptibility to HIV-1 infection at time points representing different stages of cell maturation. The results show that monocyte/macrophages are susceptible to HIV-1 infection at all stages of differentiation. However, the kinetics of virus replication depends on the degree of maturation at the time of infection. Two major patterns of replication were observed: Infection of monocytes resulted in efficient virus production measurable by reverse transcriptase activity in culture supernatant, whereas infection of fully differentiated macrophages yielded low but sustained virus release only demonstrable by p24 antigen assay. We were not able to detect differences in the capacity of the virus to infect and replicate in monocyte/macrophages with respect to cellular origin of the virus isolate and whether the viruses were laboratory-adapted strains or low-passaged patient isolates. 
Strategy for management of distal ileal Crohn's disease. We have determined the outcome of a defined policy for the management of distal ileal Crohn's disease using a prospective computer-based analysis of 139 patients diagnosed between 1970 and 1988 with a mean follow-up of 10 years. The policy in outline consists of conservative treatment for acute obstructive episodes, resection or strictureplasty for recurrent obstructive episodes, surgical treatment for abscess and fistula formation and specific medical treatment (corticosteroids, immunosuppressive therapy or metronidazole) for symptomatic non-obstructive disease. Twenty-nine patients had a benign course without resection. The remainder were treated surgically at some time but only 28 of these patients had specific treatment before operation. Thirty-three needed more than one resection and five needed more than three surgical procedures. Immediate, early or delayed surgical treatment did not affect the reoperation rates or the long-term outcome. Eleven patients died, ten of causes unrelated to Crohn's disease. Of the 128 living patients, 114 are fit and well, and only two are currently taking specific medication. Fourteen are unwell of whom six either need or have refused further surgery which could restore them to good health. This management policy has achieved excellent long-term results in nearly all patients, and our findings suggest that the timing of surgery and its nature are more important in determining outcome than specific medical therapy. 
Diphenhydramine toxicity in three children with varicella-zoster infection. Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine with anticholinergic properties that is frequently used both orally and topically for the temporary relief of pruritus. Significant systemic absorption may occur following topical administration of diphenhydramine in patients with varicella-zoster lesions. We describe three children with varicella-zoster infection (VZI) who developed bizarre behavior as well as visual and auditory hallucinations following topical applications of large amounts of diphenhydramine to the majority of skin surfaces. In two cases, oral diphenhydramine was also administered. Serum diphenhydramine concentrations approximated or exceeded those previously reported. In each case, a complete resolution of mental status abnormalities occurred within 24 hours after discontinuation of all diphenhydramine-containing products. Pharmacists and other health professionals should be aware of the potential toxicity of topical diphenhydramine in patients with VZI. 
Symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following tumor resection: report of two cases. The authors report two cases of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following resection of an acoustic neuroma and a left sphenoid wing meningioma. Vascular spasm was documented by transcranial Doppler and angiography studies. Both patients responded to hypervolemic therapy. Possible mechanisms contributing to this rare complication are discussed. 
Posterior cricoarytenoid activity in normal adults during involuntary and voluntary hyperventilation. The effect of isocapnic hypoxia and hyperoxic hypercapnia on the electrical activity of the posterior cricoarytenoid (PCA) muscle was determined in eight normal adult humans by use of standard rebreathing techniques and was compared with PCA activity during voluntary hyperventilation performed under isocapnic and hypocapnic conditions. PCA activity was recorded with intramuscular hooked-wire electrodes implanted through a fiberoptic nasopharyngoscope. During quiet breathing in all subjects, the PCA was phasically active on inspiration and tonically active throughout the respiratory cycle. At comparable increments in respiratory output, hypercapnia, hypoxia, and voluntary hyperventilation appeared to be associated with similar increases in phasic or tonic PCA activity. During quiet breathing, the onset of phasic PCA activity usually occurred before inspiratory airflow and extended beyond the start of expiratory airflow. The duration of phasic PCA preactivation and postinspiratory phasic PCA activity remained unchanged during progressive hypercapnia and progressive hypoxia. The results, in combination with recent findings for vocal cord adductors, suggest that vocal cord position throughout the respiratory cycle during hyperpnea is actively controlled by simultaneously acting and antagonistic intrinsic laryngeal muscles. 
Isolated cryptococcosis of the adrenal gland. A case of isolated adrenal cryptococcosis is reported. A patient with a history of diabetes mellitus had symptoms of left flank pain. Roentgenological and sonographic findings of the adrenal gland were indicative of a malignant tumour. Tissue obtained from surgery showed fungal granuloma and a poorly encapsulated cryptococcal organism was identified by special stains. A post-operative serum cryptococcal antigen test was positive, and the patient was successfully treated with surgery and a course of amphotericin B. After a 7-month follow-up period, there is no evidence of recurrence or dissemination. 
Dexamethasone therapy in neonatal chronic lung disease: an international placebo-controlled trial. Collaborative Dexamethasone Trial Group. In a multicenter trial of steroid therapy for chronic neonatal oxygen dependence, 287 neonates were randomly allocated from around 3 weeks of age, to dexamethasone or placebo. Active treatment significantly reduced the duration of further assisted ventilation among infants who were ventilator dependent at entry (median days for survivors, 11 vs 17.5). There were no statistically significant differences between the total groups of survivors in time receiving supplemental oxygen and length of stay in hospital, although the trend favored the dexamethasone group. Twenty-five infants in each group died prior to hospital discharge; most were ventilator dependent at trial entry. Open treatment with steroids was later given to 18% in the active group and to 43% in the placebo group. There was no evidence of serious side effects; in particular, infection rates were similar in the two groups. 
Hemodynamic consequences of desmopressin administration after cardiopulmonary bypass. Desmopressin acetate is used to reduce blood loss after cardiac surgery. However, there have been reports that hypotension can occur with infusion of desmopressin and that postoperative blood loss is not reduced. In this randomized, double-blinded study, we investigated the effects of desmopressin on hemodynamics, coagulation, and postoperative blood loss in patients undergoing primary elective coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). After reversal of heparin effect, 20 patients received desmopressin 0.3 micrograms.kg-1, infused over 15 min, and 20 patients received a placebo. Desmopressin produced a small but significant decrease in diastolic blood pressure when compared with the placebo (50.8 mmHg vs. 57.6 mmHg for the desmopressin- and placebo-treated groups, respectively; P = 0.0372). A 20% or greater decrease in mean arterial pressure was observed in 7 of 20 patients receiving desmopressin, whereas only one patient in the placebo-treated group experienced a decrease of this magnitude (P = 0.0177). Reductions in arterial pressure were secondary to decreases in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) (mean SVR before and after the drug infusion, 1,006 and 766 dyn.s.cm-5, respectively, for the desmopressin-treated group; and 994 and 1,104 dyn.s.cm-5, respectively, for the placebo-treated group; P = 0.0078). 
Cutaneous metastasis from papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland. Cutaneous metastases from carcinoma of the thyroid gland are rare. We present the clinical, histologic, and immunohistochemical features of a solitary metastasis from papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. Our results indicate that this tumor can produce epithelial mucin and, therefore, must be differentiated from other metastatic carcinomas and from primary apocrine tumors of the skin. Positive staining for thyroglobulin confirmed the diagnosis in this case. 
Fibrous lesions of the gingiva: a histopathologic analysis of 204 cases. Two hundred four cases of fibrous lesions of the gingiva were studied histologically for the presence of calcified tissue, the nature of the connective tissue, the type of keratinization, and the degree of epithelial thickness. Initially these lesions were subcategorized into four specific entities, namely fibrous epulis, fibroepithelial polyp, calcifying fibroblastic granuloma, and ossifying fibrous epulis. It was found that 46.5% of the lesions contained calcifications. The connective tissue was represented predominantly by either the collagenous type (50.5%) or the mixed (cellular and collagenous) type (44.6%). It was also found that 36% of the lesions were ulcerated, and, of these, 79.5% were associated with the cellular type of connective tissue and calcifications. In an attempt to subcategorize the fibrous lesions into specific entities, it was found that 32 cases (15.7%) had mixed features. This fact supports the suggestion that these lesions are stages in the spectrum of a single disease process and should collectively be termed fibroblastic gingival lesions. However, it is also suggested that the two terms, namely peripheral fibroma and fibrous epulis with and without ossification, should be retained whereas the usage of other terminologies should be avoided. 
Significance of ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence after lumpectomy. Breast cancer treatment trials from the US National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project have established breast-conserving operations as a replacement for radical mastectomy (NSABP B-04), and have shown that in terms of survival free from distant disease there was no significant difference between lumpectomy, lumpectomy plus breast irradiation, and total mastectomy (NSABP B-06). 9-year follow-up data from B-06 are used here to address the issue of ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence (IBTR) and the development of distant disease, a question with important clinical and biological implications. A Cox regression model on fixed co-variates (ie, features such as tumour type or size present at surgery and not subsequently alterable) and on IBTR, which is time dependent and not fixed, revealed that the risk of distant disease was 3.41 times greater after adjustment for co-variates in patients in whom an IBTR developed. IBTR proved to be a powerful independent predictor of distant disease. However, it is a marker of risk for, not a cause of, distant metastasis. While mastectomy or breast irradiation following lumpectomy prevent expression of the marker they do not lower the risk of distant disease. These findings further justify the use of lumpectomy. 
Prevalence of peripheral neuropathy in the Parsi community of Bombay. We carried out a door-to-door survey to screen for neurologic diseases, including peripheral neuropathy, in a community of 14,010 Parsis living in housing colonies in Bombay, India. The most common neurologic disorder was peripheral neuropathy with 334 cases (2,384 cases/100,000 population). The most common neuropathy was compressive, with diabetes the most common noncompressive etiology. There was no leprosy, and nutritional neuropathies were rare. 
A pilot study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin with surgical resection and postoperative radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy in adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. Fifteen patients with potentially resectable adenocarcinoma of the esophagus were treated with two cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin (DDP). Response to chemotherapy was evaluated by comparative barium swallow, computerized chest tomography, esophagoscopy, and change in clinical symptomatology. Eleven patients (73%) were resected, two (13%) were explored and found inoperable, and two (13%) were not subjected to surgery (one because of death related to toxicity and one due to progressive disease). Ten of eleven patients (91%) had gross residual tumor. One patient (9%) had residual microscopic disease only. One patient (7%) had complete clinical responses (CCR), five (33%) had partial clinical response (PCR), and nine (60%) had no response (NR). Five of 15 patients (or 45% of resected patients) remain free of disease. Median survival time was 18.47 months for all patients and 23.83 months for resected patients. 
Duodenobronchial fistula. Duodenobronchial fistulas are an extremely rare subgroup of abdominobronchial fistulas, which include bronchobiliary, gastrobronchial, enterobronchial, colobronchial, and splenobronchial fistulas. Only one case of a duodenobronchial fistula has been previously reported. Duodenobronchial fistulas occur as a complication of a duodenal injury. The characteristic symptoms are a cough that produces copious bilious secretions, shortness of breath, and fever. The diagnosis is made by contrast gastrointestinal studies. Treatment requires an abdominal approach with interruption of the fistula at its duodenal origin and control of the inciting inflammatory process. With prompt diagnosis and treatment, thoracic drainage or pulmonary resection should not be needed. 
Peritoneopericardial diaphragmatic hernia discovered at coronary bypass operation. A 68-year-old man was discovered to have a large peritoneopericardial hernia when operated on for coronary artery bypass. Such hernias are very unusual. The pathogenesis, clinical presentation, and management of this problem are discussed. 
Acute necrotizing pancreatitis: management by planned, staged pancreatic necrosectomy/debridement and delayed primary wound closure over drains. We reviewed our recent experience with management of 23 consecutive patients with acute necrotizing pancreatitis. All patients had documented necrotizing pancreatitis with parenchymal or peripancreatic necrosis. Our method of treatment has evolved from our previous approach of controlled open lesser sac drainage (marsupialization) to staged necrosectomy/debridement with delayed primary closure over drains. With this latter approach, hospital mortality was 4 of 23 patients (17 per cent), but significant morbidity still occurred in 12 of 23 patients (52 per cent). However, recurrent intra-abdominal abscess before discharge occurred in only one patient. We believe that this operative approach toward the severely ill patient with acute necrotizing pancreatitis who requires operative intervention will minimize the occurrence of intra-abdominal sepsis. 
CT of the pancreas in children. CT has become a frequently used imaging method for evaluating suspected pancreatic disease in children. Although the spectrum of CT findings in pancreatic disease is well documented in adults, there is a paucity of such information in children. Familiarity with CT patterns of pancreatic disease in childhood is important for diagnosis. In this essay, we illustrate the CT findings of pancreatic lesions in children. 
Pectus excavatum: a 15-year perspective. Pectus excavatum is relatively uncommon. Our experience with 177 children during a 15-year period produced changes in our surgical technique, which now includes a small transverse incision, minimal subcutaneous flap elevation, a muscle-relaxing incision over the fifth costal cartilage, complete resection of involved cartilage, use of Adkins' strut, suspension of sternum to strut, taut reefing of intercostal muscle, no tubes or drains, epidural analgesia, a patient-controlled analgesia device postoperatively, and eventual strut removal. Use of the evolved technique gives excellent cosmetic results, good functional results with minimal discomfort, and a shorter convalescent period. 
False aneurysm of the right internal mammary artery. False aneurysm of the internal mammary artery is an uncommon complication of median sternotomy. Clinical and radiological findings of 2 such cases are presented. At operative exploration neither was directly related to the presence of a sternal wire. 
Hypercarbic acidosis reduces cardiac resuscitability. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Marked increases in myocardial hypercarbia and acidosis accompany cardiac arrest and resuscitation. To investigate whether hypercarbic acidosis independent of oxygenation is of itself detrimental to cardiac resuscitation, three groups of six Sprague-Dawley rats were ventilated with gas mixtures containing concentrations of inspired CO2 (FICO2) of 0.0, 0.3, or 0.5, with oxygen fractions held constant at 0.5. After 4 mins of ventricular fibrillation, mechanical chest compressions were initiated with a pneumatic thumper; 2 mins later, transthoracic defibrillation was attempted. RESULTS: Each animal ventilated with FICO2 of 0.0 or 0.3 was successfully resuscitated. However, none of the animals ventilated with FICO2 of 0.5, in which aortic pH was less than 6.67 and aortic PCO2 was greater than 200 torr (greater than 26.7 kPa), was resuscitated (p less than .001). This finding contrasted with a second control group of seven identically treated animals which, in the absence of cardiac arrest, demonstrated no adverse effects after ventilation with an FICO2 of 0.5. CONCLUSIONS: Increases in FICO2 to levels of 0.5 under conditions of constant arterial oxygenation and controlled coronary perfusion pressure preclude successful resuscitation in this rodent model of CPR. 
Endoscopic balloon dilatation as a therapeutic option in the management of intestinal strictures resulting from Crohn's disease. Endoscopic balloon dilatation was undertaken in seven patients who presented with obstructive symptoms resulting from Crohn's disease. Five patients had strictures from recurrent disease at the site of an ileotransverse anastomosis, one had duodenal stenosis and one a colonic stricture. The procedures were performed under intravenous sedation on one to four occasions (median 2) and were uncomplicated. Sustained improvement over an 18-24-month follow-up period was achieved in five patients, but dilatation was unsuccessful in two cases. Endoscopic balloon dilatation is a safe and effective option in selected patients with intestinal strictures resulting from Crohn's disease and may overcome the need for surgery. 
Definitive diagnosis of breast implant rupture by ultrasonography. Silicone breast implantation is entering its fourth decade. Our ability to monitor the integrity of "old" prostheses is questioned. Clinical and mammographic examinations are reliable indicators of implant rupture only if there has been gel migration away from the implant pocket. Ultrasonography is presented as a reliable, sensitive method of evaluation of implant integrity. It should be considered the definitive study of prosthesis integrity. When sonography is added to mammographic and clinical examination, the preoperative evaluation of symptomatic augmented breasts is complete. Ultrasonography may be considered with mammography in the routine breast examination of all previously augmented patients. 
External fistulas arising from the digestive tract. External abdominal fistulas that arise from the digestive tract are associated with high mortality and prolonged morbidity in terms of infection, malnutrition, and skin excoriation. Such external fistulas most commonly follow anastomotic leak after gastrointestinal surgery. We identified 58 patients seen over a 5-year period at the University of Louisville Hospitals because of external abdominal fistulas that arose from the stomach (8), duodenum (4), small intestine (26), colon (14), biliary tract (9), and pancreas (7). Fifteen patients had multiple fistulas and 32 had high-output fistulas (greater than 200 mL/day). Closure was achieved in 48 patients, and eight of the 10 patients whose fistulas remained open died. Overall mortality was 19%. Principles of management include control of infection, correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance, nutritional support, proper wound care, and often operative intervention. Multiple staged operations over many months were particularly important in managing complex wounds with large abdominal wall defects and multiple fistulas. Fistula closure is the ultimate goal, and patience is important to achieve it. 
Neurogenic pulmonary edema: treatment with dobutamine. In the case of a patient with complicating subarachnoid hemorrhage, an infusion of dobutamine was followed by a massive diuresis and regression of severe neurogenic pulmonary edema. It is suggested that the reduction in total peripheral vascular resistance and the increase in cardiac contractility accounts for the observed beneficial effect and indicate that dobutamine is a suitable drug for the treatment of neurogenic pulmonary edema. 
Rhabdomyolysis and cutaneous necrosis following intravenous vasopressin infusion. A continuous IV infusion of vasopressin was administrated to a patient with cirrhosis of the liver and acute gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices. In the first 24 hours, the patient developed rhabdomyolysis and cutaneous necrosis. Stopping vasopressin infusion resulted in relief of these lesions. The rarity of these complications suggests an idiosyncratic reaction of susceptible individuals that may be related to previous vascular disease or a failure in baroreceptor regulation. 
Health benefits of aerobic exercise. Regular aerobic exercise has significant cardiovascular benefits, including a reduction in incidence of and mortality from coronary artery disease--probably because of positive effects on blood lipid levels and blood pressure. Aerobic exercise can also be an important adjunct to a weight-loss program. Many persons who continue an exercise program do so because of its positive mental benefits, including reduction in anxiety and depression and modulation of stress levels. Aerobic exercise has a place in the management of diabetes, pregnancy, and aging. The problems associated with aerobic exercise are minimal compared with its benefits. 
Low back pain: review of diagnosis and therapy. Low back pain is a patient complaint frequently encountered in the emergency department setting. The disease entity is often a diagnostic challenge with a subtle presentation, but can be accompanied by significant neurovascular complications. Current topics of controversy include the utility of radiologic evaluation, pharmacologic and holistic treatment strategies, as well as guidelines for urgent referral of patients with lumbar pain. 
Color Doppler imaging provides accurate assessment of orbital blood flow in occlusive carotid artery disease. Color Doppler imaging was used to evaluate the hemodynamics of the ophthalmic vasculature in a case of complete internal carotid artery occlusion. This procedure, which allows rapid, noninvasive imaging, showed a partial ophthalmic artery obstruction with absent flow in the central retinal artery, central retinal vein, and nasal posterior ciliary arteries. Although altered perfusion of the retinal vessels may be evaluated clinically, assessment of blood flow in the ophthalmic and ciliary arteries previously could be evaluated only indirectly by intravenous fluorescein angiography. The color Doppler imaging findings were confirmed by intravenous fluorescein angiography and carotid arteriography. Color Doppler imaging represents a noninvasive method to diagnose abnormal blood flow of the ophthalmic artery and its branches and to evaluate serial changes of the circulation in a noninvasive manner. 
Association of hypovolemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage with computed tomographic scan evidence of raised intracranial pressure. Hypovolemic patients are more likely to suffer delayed cerebral ischemia and infarction after a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Prompt recognition and correction of hypovolemia may improve the outcome. We have identified computed tomographic (CT) scan findings that increase the probability of a patient presenting with hypovolemia soon after an SAH. The plasma volume (PV) of 25 patients admitted within 96 hours of an SAH was measured using radioiodinated serum albumin. The normal PVs were measured in an outpatient setting 6 months later or predicted from their total body water. Nine patients (36%) were found to be hypovolemic, defined as a fall in PV exceeding 10% of the normal PV (mean fall, 18 +/- 2%). Sixteen patients were normovolemic or hypervolemic (mean PV, +9 +/- 2%). The basal cisterns were compressed or obliterated on the CT scans of all hypovolemic patients compared with 12.5% of normovolemic patients (chi-square, 14.52; P less than 0.01). The probabilities of a patient being hypovolemic if the CT scan indicated raised intracranial pressure were high: hydrocephalus, P = 0.80; compression of the basal cisterns, P = 0.82; and compression of the basal cisterns associated with intracerebral hematoma or midline shift, P = 1.00. Patients with an SAH and radiological evidence of raised intracranial pressure should be considered at particular risk for systemic hypovolemia. 
Benign spinal nerve sheath tumors: their occurrence sporadically and in neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2. Benign spinal nerve sheath tumors (neurofibromas and schwannomas) often occur on dorsal nerve roots sporadically or in neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2. These are histologically benign tumors, and distinction between them is frequently not made by clinicians. To determine if there is a correlation between the histological pattern of benign spinal nerve sheath tumors and the type of neurofibromatosis, the clinical and pathological features of these tumors (86 surgical specimens and five autopsies) in 68 patients were reviewed. The patients were classified into one of four categories: neurofibromatosis type 1, neurofibromatosis type 2, uncertain, or sporadic. The diagnostic criteria used for neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2 were established by the National Institutes of Health. Patients who did not fulfill criteria for either neurofibromatosis type 1 or 2 but who had multiple nervous system tumors or other stigmata of neurofibromatosis were designated "uncertain." Spinal nerve sheath tumors were considered sporadic in 42 cases (40 schwannomas and two neurofibromas). In the 14 patients with neurofibromatosis type 1, all spinal nerve sheath tumors were neurofibromas. In six of the seven patients with neurofibromatosis type 2, all spinal nerve sheath tumors were schwannomas. One patient with neurofibromatosis type 2 had a spinal nerve sheath schwannoma and a tumor with features of both tumor types. The authors conclude that spinal nerve sheath tumors in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 are neurofibromas. In contrast, spinal nerve sheath tumors occurring in neurofibromatosis type 2 or sporadically are most frequently schwannomas. The distinct histological features of these tumors may reflect different pathogenetic mechanisms even though they arise at identical sites in neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2. 
The effect of decompression on the natural course of spinal stenosis. A comparison of surgically treated and untreated patients. The clinical course of 19 untreated patients with spinal stenosis (mean age, 60 years) was compared with that of 44 patients treated surgically (mean age, 65 years). The time of follow-up was 31 and 53 months, respectively. About 80% of the patients had neurogenic intermittent claudication. In the follow-up, one third of the treated and one half of the untreated patients still had neurogenic claudication. By visual analogue-scale estimation, 60% of those treated surgically and 33% of the untreated patients felt better. Fifty-eight percent of the untreated patients were unchanged. Neurophysiologic changes showed progression in almost all cases; it was more pronounced in the treated patients. No proof of severe deterioration was found in the untreated patients, and observation for 2-3 years seems to be a good alternative to surgery. 
Continuous monitoring of cerebral oxygenation in acute brain injury: injection of mannitol during hyperventilation. Global cerebral oxygenation, perfusion pressure, and expired pCO2 were continuously monitored in 10 adults with acute severe closed head trauma. Cerebral oxygenation was monitored by fiberoptic catheter oximetry, which allowed simultaneous measurements of arterial and jugular bulb oxyhemoglobin saturation. Intracranial pressure levels over 20 mm Hg were recorded several times in all patients, in spite of sedation, muscle paralysis, and profound hyperventilation. Intracranial hypertension was frequently associated with oligemic cerebral hypoxia, identified as abnormally low jugular oxygen saturation in the presence of normal arterial oxygenation. Intracranial hypertension was then managed with intravenous administration of mannitol boluses, which yielded simultaneous decreases in intracranial pressure and increases in cerebral oxygenation to highly statistically significant levels. Monitoring cerebral oxygenation was clinically useful because it allowed identification of impaired cerebral oxygenation even when cerebral perfusion pressure was normal. It is therefore proposed as a new monitoring technique, to supplement conventional monitoring of cerebral perfusion pressure. 
Chronic central nervous system effects of acute organophosphate pesticide intoxication. The Pesticide Health Effects Study Group. Acute organophosphate pesticide poisonings cause substantial morbidity and mortality world wide; however, whether organophosphates cause chronic neurological sequelae has not been established. To see whether single episodes of acute unintentional organophosphate intoxication lead to chronic neuropsychological dysfunction, we carried out a retrospective study of agricultural workers in Nicaragua who had been admitted to hospital between July 1, 1986, and July 31, 1988, for occupationally related organophosphate intoxication. This "poisoned" group (36 men) was tested on average about two years after the episode of pesticide poisoning and compared with a matched control group. The poisoned group did much worse than the control group on all neuropsychological subtests, with significantly worse performance on five of six subtests of a World Health Organisation neuropsychological test battery and on 3 of 6 additional tests that assessed verbal and visual attention, visual memory, visuomotor speed, sequencing and problem solving, and motor steadiness and dexterity. Differences in neuropsychological performance could not be explained by other factors. The findings of a persistent decrease in neuropsychological performance among individuals with previous intoxication emphasise the importance of prevention of even single episodes of organophosphate poisoning. 
Preoperative and intraoperative fine needle aspiration cytology of pancreatic lesions. The aim of the present study was to describe our experience from 1976 through 1988 with fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology of pancreatic lesions in 90 patients. Fine needle aspirations were performed preoperatively under ultrasound guidance (USG) in 46 patients, under computed tomographic guidance (CTG) in seven patients, and intraoperatively in 37 patients. Based on histologic, cytologic, and clinical findings, final diagnoses were reached in 80 patients, of whom 62 had malignant pancreatic disease (MPD) and 18 had benign pancreatic disease (BPD). The accuracy of cytologic diagnoses was verified by histologic, cytologic, and clinical findings. In 62 patients with MPD, the cytologic findings suggested malignancy in 54 patients, suspected malignancy in five, and did not reveal malignancy in three patients. Among 18 patients with BPD, all of the cytologic findings were reported as benign. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and diagnostic accuracy for intraoperative FNA cytologic results were 96%, 100%, 100%, 91%, and 97%, respectively, and for USG FNA cytologic results were 94%, 100%, 100%, 78%, and 95%, respectively. No complications followed the procedure. Conclusions: Both transabdominal percutaneous imaging-guided and intraoperative FNA cytology of pancreatic lesions are simple, safe, and highly accurate methods in differentiation of benign from malignant pancreatic lesions. 
Stress erosive gastritis. Bleeding from stress erosive gastritis continues to be a potential problem in critically ill and injured patients, but fortunately its incidence has decreased dramatically over the last decade. The explanation for this circumstance is probably multifactorial, but clearly relates to our increased knowledge of its pathophysiology. This understanding has led to the routine use of measures to reduce intragastric acidity (luminal acid being a prerequisite for stress ulcer to occur), coupled with improved techniques for the treatment of shock and the accompanying gastric mucosal hypoperfusion (another prerequisite for the formation of stress ulcers). A number of measures have been used to lower intragastric acidity with H2 receptor blockers emerging as the agents of choice to accomplish this goal. In the unlikely event that bleeding occurs despite these prophylactic measures, aggressive medical management will result in cessation of hemorrhage in over 80% of patients. In those few individuals requiring surgery to control bleeding, no operation has emerged as the recognized procedure of choice. Thus, we believe that a conservative operative approach is indicated in this setting and recommend vagotomy and pyloroplasty with oversewing of the bleeding erosions as appropriate therapy for most patients requiring surgical intervention. 
Autonomic function in Friedreich's ataxia. Autonomic function studies were performed on 15 patients with Friedreich's ataxia, and the results compared with those of 76 healthy subjects. There was an increase in resting supine heart rate, attributed to cardiac abnormalities. Other tests of sympathetic and parasympathetic function were normal. The normal autonomic function studies are consistent with the pathological findings of degeneration predominantly of large diameter myelinated fibres with sparing of small myelinated and unmyelinated fibres. 
Tracheostomal stenosis after immediate tracheoesophageal puncture. The incidence of tracheostomal stenosis in a group of patients after total laryngectomy with or without pharyngectomy plus immediate tracheoesophageal or tracheogastric puncture was compared with that of a control group without puncture. The stenosis rate of the puncture group was significantly higher than that of the control group (19% vs 6%). The other probable etiologic factors for stomal stricture were similar in both groups. Analysis of the risk factors in the puncture group suggested a higher tendency of stenosis in females (43% vs 16%) and in patients receiving postoperative radiotherapy (29% vs 14%), although the difference failed to reach statistical significance. 
Prevention of stroke by antihypertensive drug treatment in older persons with isolated systolic hypertension. Final results of the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP). SHEP Cooperative Research Group OBJECTIVE.--To assess the ability of antihypertensive drug treatment to reduce the risk of nonfatal and fatal (total) stroke in isolated systolic hypertension. DESIGN.--Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled. SETTING.--Community-based ambulatory population in tertiary care centers. PARTICIPANTS.--4736 persons (1.06%) from 447,921 screenees aged 60 years and above were randomized (2365 to active treatment, 2371 to placebo). Systolic blood pressure ranged from 160 to 219 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure was less than 90 mm Hg. Of the participants, 3161 were not receiving antihypertensive medication at initial contact, and 1575 were. The average systolic blood pressure was 170 mm Hg; average diastolic blood pressure, 77 mm Hg. The mean age was 72 years, 57% were women, and 14% were black. INTERVENTIONS.--Participants were stratified by clinical center and by antihypertensive medication status at initial contact. For step 1 of the trial, dose 1 was chlorthalidone, 12.5 mg/d, or matching placebo; dose 2 was 25 mg/d. For step 2, dose 1 was atenolol, 25 mg/d, or matching placebo; dose 2 was 50 mg/d. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Primary.--Nonfatal and fatal (total) stroke. Secondary.--Cardiovascular and coronary morbidity and mortality, all-cause mortality, and quality of life measures. RESULTS.--Average follow-up was 4.5 years. The 5-year average systolic blood pressure was 155 mm Hg for the placebo group and 143 mm Hg for the active treatment group, and the 5-year average diastolic blood pressure was 72 and 68 mm Hg, respectively. The 5-year incidence of total stroke was 5.2 per 100 participants for active treatment and 8.2 per 100 for placebo. The relative risk by proportional hazards regression analysis was 0.64 (P = .0003). For the secondary end point of clinical nonfatal myocardial infarction plus coronary death, the relative risk was 0.73. Major cardiovascular events were reduced (relative risk, 0.68). For deaths from all causes, the relative risk was 0.87. CONCLUSION.--In persons aged 60 years and over with isolated systolic hypertension, antihypertensive stepped-care drug treatment with low-dose chlorthalidone as step 1 medication reduced the incidence of total stroke by 36%, with 5-year absolute benefit of 30 events per 1000 participants. Major cardiovascular events were reduced, with 5-year absolute benefit of 55 events per 1000. 
A randomized clinical trial of ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin versus cefotaxime and clindamycin in children with ruptured appendicitis. This prospective, randomized, double-blind study compares the efficacy, safety and cost-effectiveness of ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin (AGC) or cefotaxime and clindamycin (CC) for the treatment of children with complicated appendicitis. Ninety-seven children were randomized. Forty-seven were assigned to the AGC regimen and 50 received CC. Forty-two patients in the AGC group had an appropriate therapeutic outcome, whereas 48 of 50 children who received CC completed the trial successfully (p = NS). There were no differences between the groups with reference to the duration of antibiotic administration, fever, leukocytosis or length of hospitalization. Complications of therapy were uncommon and neither regimen demonstrated a significant advantage from an economic standpoint. We concluded that, in childhood, complicated appendicitis can be treated with either CC or AGC with equal efficacy. 
The clinical diagnosis of splenomegaly. Assessing for the presence of splenomegaly is an important component of the physical examination. Although several methods of palpation and percussion of the spleen have been described, until recently they have not been validated by noninvasive imaging techniques such as ultrasonography, radionuclide scanning, and computed tomography that offer objective means to assess splenomegaly. We review the literature comparing various physical examination techniques with noninvasive imaging modalities and conclude that palpation and percussion of the spleen are complementary but frequently insensitive and that further studies are needed to evaluate the efficacy of specific diagnostic methods. 
The failed ulnar nerve transposition. Etiology and treatment. Various procedures have been recommended for the treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome. Simple decompression in situ, medial epicondylectomy, subcutaneous transposition, intramuscular transposition, and submuscular transposition all have their advocates. The results of the surgical treatment for cubital tunnel syndrome are related to the severity of the compressive neuropathy at the time of diagnosis and to the adequate decompression of the nerve at all sites of potential compression at the time of surgical treatment. Fourteen patients who had previously undergone surgical treatment for cubital tunnel syndrome were evaluated because of persistent pain, paresthesia, numbness, and motor weakness. All patients had documented persistent compression of the ulnar nerve on clinical and electromyographic evaluation. The indication for repeat surgical exploration in all patients was unremitting pain despite nonoperative treatment. All patients had been treated by neurolysis and submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve as described by Learmonth. The causes of continued pain after initial surgery included retention of the medial intermuscular septum, dense perineural fibrosis of the nerve after intramuscular and subcutaneous transposition, adhesions of the nerve to the medial epicondylectomy site, and recurrent subluxation of the nerve over the medial epicondyle after subcutaneous transposition. Revision surgery was found to be highly successful for relief of pain and paresthesias; however, the recovery of motor function and return of sensibility were variable and unpredictable. 
Role of calcium channel blockers in protection against experimental renal injury. The available evidence indicates that the first generation calcium channel blocker verapamil has a protective effect against both acute and chronic renal failure. At the cell membrane, verapamil helps minimize the effects of excess calcium influx after ischemic injury, evidenced by reduced uptake of 45Ca, thus lessening tubular injury from both calcium-activated phospholipases and mitochondrial calcium overload. In experimental chronic renal failure, the long-term administration of verapamil protects against renal dysfunction and damage, independent of any effect on systemic mean arterial pressure. Protective effects of verapamil are delineated in several models, supporting the presented hypothesis of the pathogenesis of renal failure. 
Clinical significance of small-intestinal microsporidiosis in HIV-1-infected individuals To assess the importance of microsporidiosis of the small intestine in the pathogenesis of chronic diarrhoea in HIV-1-infected individuals, duodenal biopsy samples from the following three patient groups were prospectively evaluated for bacterial, viral, and parasitic pathogens by standard methods, and for microsporidia by light microscopy: 55 consecutive HIV-1-antibody-positive subjects with unexplained diarrhoea of at least 3 weeks duration (group A); 38 HIV-1-seropositive subjects without diarrhoea (group B) who consecutively underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for various reasons; and 7 patients without known risk factors for HIV infection with chronic unexplained diarrhoea (group C). In groups A and B most subjects had had previous AIDS-defining opportunistic infections and the median peripheral blood CD4 lymphocyte count was less than 0.1 x 10(9)/l. Microsporidia were detected as the single pathogen in 15 of the group A compared with 1 (in whom diarrhoea subsequently developed) of the group B patients (p = 0.001) and none of the group C patients. With the exception of 4 of the group A patients, no other intestinal pathogens were identified in any of the patients. The median peripheral blood CD4 count was significantly lower in patients with detectable microsporidia than in those without microsporidiosis (0.03 x 10(9)/l vs 0.06 x 10(9)/l; p = 0.03); in all patients with microsporidiosis, the CD4 count was equal to or less than 0.1 x 10(9)/l. 13 patients with microsporidiosis were treated with metronidazole, in 10 of whom treatment led to a substantial improvement or disappearance of diarrhoea within days of starting therapy, but did not result in eradication of the parasite in the 5 patients who underwent repeat biopsy. The findings suggest that small-intestinal microsporidiosis is an important cause of chronic unexplained diarrhoea in HIV-1-infected individuals with pronounced cellular immune deficiency. This infection should therefore be added to the list of AIDS-defining opportunistic infections. 
Differences in vascular reactivity in models of ischemic acute renal failure. To determine the mechanism of observed differences in vasoreactivity in norepinephrine-induced (NE) and renal artery clamp (RAC) models of ischemic acute renal failure (ARF), induction renal blood flow (RBF) was measured and vascular reactivity examined one week thereafter in NE- and RAC-ARF rat kidneys that had identical levels of renal dysfunction. Morphology also was compared at 48 hours and one week. In NE-ARF, RBF was 14% during 90 minutes of induction and by 60 minutes post-NE infusion was only 18% of baseline. In contrast, in RAC-ARF RBF was effectively 0 for 75 minutes but returned to 95% of baseline by 60 minutes after clamp release. At one week there was a paradoxical increase in renovascular resistance (RVR) to renal perfusion pressure (RPP) reduction in the autoregulatory range and an augmented vasoconstriction to renal nerve stimulation (RNS) in NE-ARF, but no change in RVR and minimal reduction in RBF to these same respective stimuli in RAC-ARF (both different at P less than 0.001). NE-ARF were more sensitive to intrarenal norepinephrine than RAC-ARF kidneys (P less than 0.001). Neither NE- nor RAC-ARF kidneys responded to endothelium-dependent acetylcholine (ACh). Vasodilation to endothelium-independent prostacyclin (PGI2) in NE- was similar to sham-ARF, but there was an attenuated response in RAC-ARF kidneys (P less than 0.001). Morphology at 48 hours showed smooth muscle necrosis in half of the resistance vessels in RAC- but in less than 10% of those in NE-ARF. Except for a slightly greater frequency of tubular casts at 48 hours in RAC-ARF, tubular injury was indistinguishable. It is concluded that NE-ARF has evidence of a predominant functional endothelial vascular injury while RAC-ARF has both morphologic and functional evidence of a predominant smooth muscle injury. Differences in vascular injury between the two models, at least in part, may be the consequence of differences in severity of initial ischemia and/or the rates of recovery of RBF; however, an additional or separate toxic effect of infused NE cannot be excluded. 
S100 protein-positive sustentacular cells in malignant and locally aggressive adrenal pheochromocytomas. The absence or presence of S100-positive sustentacular cells has been previously shown to be correlated with benign and malignant pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas. We evaluated a total of 17 malignant and recurrent or locally aggressive adrenal pheochromocytomas for their quantity of sustentacular cells. An absence of sustentacular cells was demonstrated in the majority of malignant cases, while the locally aggressive or recurrent group usually contained an abundance of these cells. However, in one malignant case a constant moderate number of sustentacular cells in the primary site and in two sequential metastases was found. We conclude that the absence of sustentacular cells in pheochromocytomas may indicate a lesion with a greater potential for metastasis and that sustentacular cells, when they are present in a malignant pheochromocytoma, are an integral part of the tumor. 
Nd-YAG laser hyaloidotomy for malignant glaucoma following one-piece 7 mm intraocular lens implantation. Three cases of malignant glaucoma following extracapsular cataract extraction with 7 mm one-piece posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation are presented. Nd-YAG laser hyaloidotomy was successfully performed in all eyes, but was difficult and required several sessions in two eyes. In the third eye, which had a sector iridectomy, laser hyaloidotomy applied over the edge of the lens optic through the iridectomy resulted in brisk deepening of the anterior chamber and reduction of intraocular pressure. We propose that the one-piece 7 mm optic posterior chamber intraocular lens may constitute an obstacle to successful hyaloidotomy, mainly owing to its large size, as it may block aqueous percolation from the vitreous into the anterior chamber. Eyes prone to develop malignant glaucoma after surgery should have a sector or large peripheral iridectomy to facilitate postoperative Nd-YAG laser hyaloidotomy if required. 
Emergency pulmonary resection for pneumonia. High morbidity and mortality. Emergency pulmonary resection was performed because of complicated pneumonia in eight patients (5 pneumonectomies, 2 lobectomies, 1 bilobectomy) over a 2-year period. The patients' age range was 5 months to 43 years. The indications were rapid aggravation of respiratory insufficiency in children with staphylococcal pneumonia and enlarging pneumatoceles, and massive hemoptysis in patients with chronic destructive pneumonia. Two patients died after pneumonectomy, one from contralateral aspiration and one from cardiogenic shock. Postoperative complications occurred in four cases--bronchopleural fistula and pyopneumothorax in three and thoracic empyema with massive chest-wall infection in one. Only two patients had an uneventful postoperative course. Complications of pulmonary necrosis in pneumonia may dictate urgent pulmonary resection, often pneumonectomy. Surgery will be life-saving in most cases, but high morbidity is to be expected. 
Myocardial rupture. Your patient's survival may depend on you. Myocardial rupture is the second leading cause of in-hospital death from acute myocardial infarction. It is most likely to occur in the elderly, women, and patients with transmural infarction and no previous history of angina. A high index of suspicion is critical to the diagnosis. Myocardial rupture should be suspected when recurrent chest pain or hemodynamic instability develops after myocardial infarction. Rapid intervention and appropriate infarct-limiting therapy may reduce the mortality rate of this catastrophic complication. 
Abdominal wall Actinomyces abscess associated with an intrauterine device. A case report. An abdominal wall Actinomyces abscess occurred in a woman with an intrauterine device. Contributing factors were local trauma, spread from surrounding colonized body sites and symbiotic growth of other anaerobes. The diagnosis was based on the histologic finding of the sulfur granule. Special studies may be needed to distinguish this condition from other, similar ones (Nocardia, botryomycosis). 
Radionuclide assessment of ventricular function and risk stratification after myocardial infarction. Prognosis after acute myocardial infarction is determined primarily by left ventricular function and by the extent to which additional coronary obstructions jeopardize viable myocardium. Radionuclide ventriculography is well suited for noninvasive assessments of resting and exercise ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction. The prognostic importance of resting left ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction is well established. Several studies have reported the prognostic utility of submaximal exercise radionuclide ventriculography at the time of hospital discharge. Patients with globally depressed left ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction are at increased risk for cardiac death, while patients with normal resting ventricular function but abnormal function during exercise appear to be at risk for nonfatal ischemic events. The development of gated tomographic techniques and new radiopharmaceuticals will make available more accurate and detailed assessments of ventricular function and combined assessments of function and perfusion. These new developments require further investigation but appear to be promising new techniques with the potential for providing improved assessments of prognosis after acute myocardial infarction. 
Intracerebral hemorrhage after lumbar myelography with iohexol: report of a case and review of the literature. Intracranial hemorrhage is an uncommon complication of dural puncture. In most instances, hematomas are subdural; they may be unilateral or bilateral. Rarely are intraparenchymal cerebral hemorrhages related to dural puncture. This report describes a delayed occurrence of bilateral intraparenchymal hemorrhages in a 38-year-old woman 7 days after lumbar myelography with iohexol. A review of the literature is presented. 
Is the serum cholesterol-coronary heart disease relationship modified by activity level in older persons? Although coronary heart disease remains a leading cause of death and disability in old age, the relationship of serum cholesterol level to risk of coronary heart disease in old age is controversial. Data for 2,388 white persons aged 65-74 who participated in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) I Epidemiologic Follow-up Study (NHEFS) were examined to determine the relationship of serum cholesterol level to coronary heart disease incidence and whether activity level would modify this relationship. While there was no overall relationship between serum cholesterol level and coronary heart disease risk in either men or women, the relationship between serum cholesterol level and coronary heart disease differed within activity groups. For persons who were more active, serum cholesterol level was associated with a graded increase in risk of coronary heart disease, from 1.3 (95% CI 0.7, 2.3) in those with serum cholesterol level of 4.7-5.1 to 1.7 in those with serum cholesterol level of 6.2 mmol/L or more (95% CI 1.0, 2.7), when compared with those with serum cholesterol level below 4.7. For the least active persons, all levels of cholesterol were associated with a significant inverse relative risk, including cholesterol of 6.2 mmol/L or more (Relative risk = 0.4 (95% CI 0.2, 0.7]. These data suggest that factors such as activity level may modify the serum cholesterol-coronary heart disease association in old age. The serum cholesterol-coronary heart disease association in more active older persons resembles that seen in younger populations, whereas the association in less active persons is that of serum cholesterol level and risk of cancer or death. The modification of the serum cholesterol-coronary heart disease association by activity level may have implications for appropriate clinical management as well as appropriate design of research studies of this association. 
Elevated brain concentrations of 1,4-benzodiazepines in fulminant hepatic failure BACKGROUND. Increased gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmission has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. The mechanism by which GABA-ergic activity is increased in hepatic failure is unclear, but recent studies in animals with encephalopathy due to fulminant hepatic failure suggest that GABA-ergic neurotransmission may be increased by the presence of elevated concentrations of benzodiazepine agonists such as diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam. METHODS AND RESULTS. Samples of frontal cortex were obtained at autopsy from 11 patients with hepatic encephalopathy who died of acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure and 8 patients who died of cardiovascular disease or trauma. None of the 19 patients had received benzodiazepines while hospitalized. Chromatographic analyses of extracts of these samples revealed 4 to 19 peaks representing substances that inhibited the binding of a radiolabeled imidazobenzodiazepine ([3H]flumazenil) to its receptors. Several of these peaks had retention times corresponding to those of known 1,4-benzodiazepines. Ultraviolet- and mass-spectroscopic analysis confirmed that two of these peaks represented diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam. The patients who died of fulminant hepatic failure could be divided into two groups: six who had had significantly elevated brain concentrations (2-fold to 10-fold higher than normal) of substances inhibiting the binding of [3H]flumazenil and five who had normal concentrations. CONCLUSIONS. Brain concentrations of substances inhibiting the binding of [3H]flumazenil to its receptors are increased in some patients with hepatic encephalopathy due to fulminant hepatic failure. The origin of these substances is unknown, but these findings provide a rational basis for trials of benzodiazepine-receptor antagonists in the management of this disorder. 
Detection of hepatitis B virus DNA in paraffin-embedded liver tissues in chronic hepatitis B or non-A, non-B, hepatitis using the polymerase chain reaction. We developed a polymerase chain reaction assay for the direct detection of hepatitis B virus in paraffin-embedded liver tissue and applied this assay to determine whether hepatitis B virus DNA exists in livers with chronic hepatitis non-A, non-B. Fifty five liver biopsy samples were studied: 11 from patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis (paraffin-embedded) and 44 from patients with chronic hepatitis non-A, non-B (21 paraffin-embedded; 25 fresh frozen). Thirty three (75%) of the non-A, non-B cases were positive for hepatitis C virus antibodies. Approximately 1 to 10 ng of DNA was extracted from the paraffin-embedded tissue and amplified using oligonucleotide (23-mer) primers specific for the S gene (positions 261 to 692). The beta-globin gene was used as an internal control for sensitivity because this is a single copy gene and allows for relative quantification. In each of the chronic hepatitis B livers, the expected 432-base-pair amplification product for hepatitis B virus DNA and beta-globin gene product were both detected. On the other hand, in the 21 paraffin-embedded chronic hepatitis non-A, non-B livers, no hepatitis B virus DNA was detected, although beta-globin gene was observed in all. Furthermore, in all 25 frozen non-A, non-B livers, beta-globin gene was observed, but no hepatitis B virus band was seen. The limit of detection of hepatitis B virus DNA by this method was estimated to be one genomic copy of hepatitis B virus DNA per cell. 
Ovulation induction by step-down administration of purified urinary follicle-stimulating hormone in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome. The step-down method can be an alternative method of ovulation induction in women with PCOS. This protocol can induce ovulation with a smaller dose of FSH and with lower incidence of excessive ovarian enlargement in comparison with the traditional fixed-dose administration method. 
Fluoxetine in the treatment of borderline and schizotypal personality disorders. Twenty-two patients meeting the criteria for borderline or schizotypal personality disorder or both participated in a prospective, nonblind 12-week trial of fluoxetine. There were significant reductions in self-injury and in scores on the Hopkins Symptom Checklist regardless of diagnosis. The results suggest that controlled trials of fluoxetine and investigations of the serotonergic system in these disorders would be useful. 
Atypical polypoid dermatofibroma: report of two cases. Two cases of a hitherto undescribed special variant of dermatofibroma are reported. A man and a woman, aged 57 and 52 years, respectively, had slowly growing cutaneous tumors on the lower extremities. The tumors were exophytic and polypoid, 10 and 6 cm in maximal diameters, respectively; they were covered by rough nonulcerated skin and were joined by a short pedicle to an indurated base. Histologic examination showed some features of an otherwise conventional dermatofibroma, whereas the polypoid component was hypercellular and showed striking atypia and scattered mitotic figures. After 32 and 28 months' follow-up, the lesions did not recur after surgical excision. We suggest the term atypical polypoid dermatofibroma to summarize the special clinicopathologic features of these tumors. 
Pelvic fracture from major blunt trauma. Outcome is determined by associated injuries. Pelvic hemorrhage has been implicated as the cause of death in 50% of patients who die following pelvic fractures. To establish correlates of morbidity and mortality from pelvic fractures due to blunt trauma, we reviewed 236 patients treated during 4 years. The average age of the 144 men and 92 women was 31.5 years, the average Injury Severity Score was 21.3, the average blood requirement was 5 units, and the average hospital stay was 16.8 days. One hundred fifty-two patients (64.4%) were injured in motor vehicle accidents, 33 (14%) had motor vehicle-pedestrian accidents, 16 (6.8%) had crush injuries, 12 (5.1%) each had either motorcycle accidents or falls, and 11 (4.6%) had miscellaneous accidents. Eighteen patients (7.6%) died, with seven (38.9%) deaths due to hemorrhage. Only one death was caused by pelvic hemorrhage. Other deaths were due to hemorrhage from other sites (6), head injury (5), sepsis or multiple-organ failure (4), pulmonary injury (1), and pulmonary embolus (1). None of the septic deaths was related to a pelvic hematoma. Multivariate multiple regression analysis showed that the severity of injury was correlated with indices of severity of pelvic fractures such as fracture site (p less than 0.0001), fracture displacement (p less than 0.005), pelvic stability (p less than 0.0001), and vector of injury (p less than 0.01). However death could not be predicted on the basis of these indices of severity (p greater than 0.28). Of the nine patients who underwent pelvic arteriography, three required embolization of actively bleeding pelvic vessels, but seven had intra-abdominal hemorrhage that required laparotomy, and eight developed a coagulopathy. Massive bleeding from pelvic fractures was uncommon, and the major threat of hemorrhage was from nonpelvic sites. Furthermore, although injury severity was correlated with the severity of the pelvic fracture, hospital outcome was determined by associated injuries and not by the pelvic fracture. 
Risk assessment and control of waterborne giardiasis. BACKGROUND: Waterborne giardiasis has been increasing in the United States with 95 outbreaks reported over the last 25 years. The Safe Drinking Water Act has mandated control of this pathogen. METHODS: A risk assessment model was developed to estimate risk of infection after exposure to treated waters containing varying levels of Giardia cysts. The model was defined by a dose-response curve developed from human feeding studies for Giardia and assumed 2L of water consumption per day. Data on concentrations and distribution of the organism in source waters were used to assess exposure after varying reductions achieved through treatment. RESULTS: In surveys reporting prevalence and levels of Giardia cyst contamination, average levels of cysts in surface waters ranged from 0.33 to 104/100L; from pristine watersheds (protected from all human activity) 0.6 to 5/100L. Yearly risks were 4.8 x 10(-3) for systems using polluted waters and 1.3 x 10(-4) for pristine waters with a 10(-3) treatment reduction. CONCLUSION: Public Health officials will need to work with the water industry to ensure a risk of less than 1/10,000 for source waters with 0.7 to 70 cysts per 100 liters through treatment achieving reduction of 10(-3) to 10(-5), respectively, of Giardia cysts. 
Subarachnoid hemorrhage from multiple neurofibromas of the cauda equina: case report. The authors report a case of spinal subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by neurofibromas of the cauda equina. An examination of the literature revealing 13 similar cases and an analysis of this case showing three neurofibromas of the cauda equina prompted an hypothesis emphasizing the origin of bleeding and the difficulties associated with a correct diagnosis. 
Deletion of mitochondrial DNA in patients with combined features of Kearns-Sayre and MELAS syndromes. A 9-year-old girl and an 11-year-old boy had ptosis, progressive external ophthalmoplegia, pigmentary retinopathy, and sensorineural hearing loss. The girl had diabetes mellitus and the boy had hypoparathyroidism. Both children also developed recurrent vomiting and cerebral infarcts with lactic acidosis. Muscle biopsy specimens showed ragged-red fibers and Southern analysis demonstrated a distinct heteroplasmic deletion of muscle mitochondrial DNA in each patient but no evidence of the point mutation in the transfer RNALeu(UUR) gene recently identified in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). These 2 children had combined features of Kearns-Sayre syndrome and MELAS, suggesting that mitochondrial DNA deletions occasionally can have pleomorphic clinical expression. 
Prevalence, onset, and risk of psychiatric disorders in men with chronic low back pain: a controlled study. This study used structured diagnostic interviews and DSM-III criteria to assess lifetime prevalence and pre-morbid risk of psychiatric disorder in a sample of men with long-standing chronic back pain (CLPB) attending a primary care clinic. A control group of age and demographically matched men without history of back pain was also studied. Compared to controls, men with CLBP had significantly higher lifetime rates of major depression (32% vs. 16%), alcohol use disorder (64.9% vs. 38.8%), and a major anxiety disorder (30.9% vs. 14.3%). Almost all CLBP men ever experiencing a mood disorder reported recurrent, not single, episodes. The 6 month point prevalence of major depression, but not other disorders, was also significantly elevated for men with CLBP. In CLBP, the first episode of major depression generally (58.1%) followed pain onset. While the initial major depressive episode usually commenced within the first 2 years of established pain, late onset mood disorder was also common. By comparison in most cases (81%) onset of alcohol use disorders considerably preceded pain. When an age-matching procedure was used to gauge relative vulnerability to psychiatric illness in patients and controls, CLBP patients had significantly higher pre-pain rates of alcohol use disorder but not depression. After age of pain onset, CLBP subjects had over 9 times the risk of developing major depression, but had similar rates of developing alcoholism. We conclude that (1) alcohol use disorders rather than depression may increase risk of developing CLBP, and (2) risk of new onset and recurrent major depression remains high for men throughout their pain career. This suggests that psychological adaptation to long-standing pain may be less successful than previously thought, especially with regard to recurrent mood disorder. 
A 'unified theory' of prion propagation. There is now very persuasive evidence that the transmissible agent for spongiform encephalopathies such as scrapie, consists of a modified form of the normal host protein PrPc, devoid of any nucleic acid. On the other hand, because there are many different strains of scrapie agent with distinct phenotypes which can be propagated in animals homozygous for the PrPc gene, it has been suggested that a nucleic acid must be a component of the agent. Can the two views be reconciled?. 
Analysis of the enhancer element that controls expression of sevenless in the developing Drosophila eye. The sevenless gene encodes a protein-tyrosine kinase receptor expressed in a complex pattern during the development of the Drosophila melanogaster eye. We have previously shown that this pattern is regulated transcriptionally by an enhancer located in the body of the sevenless gene. Here we extend our analysis of the sevenless enhancer, defining a 475-base-pair fragment that contains elements necessary for the correct qualitative and quantitative expression of the sevenless gene. Within this fragment are sequence elements conserved in the sevenless gene of a distantly related Drosophila species and protected from DNase I digestion by nuclear extracts isolated from adult heads and imaginal discs. Partial deletions of the 475-base-pair fragment result in preferential loss of expression in different subsets of cells. These results suggest that the normal pattern of expression is generated by the combined action of separate cell-specific regulatory elements. 
Helicobacter pylori gastritis mimicking gastric carcinoma at CT evaluation. The abdominal computed tomographic (CT) scans from 61 patients with biopsy-proved Helicobacter (formerly Campylobacter) pylori gastritis were retrospectively reviewed. The CT scans were interpreted on the basis of the original report of the findings at CT examination and without knowledge of the results of biopsy. Of 19 patients (31%) with gastric abnormalities at CT, 14 (74%) had inflammatory changes initially reported as suspicious for gastric malignancy; malignancy was entertained as the primary diagnosis in four of those patients. In five of the 19 abnormal cases (26%), the diagnosis with CT was gastritis. The two major patterns of severe H pylori infection identified were (a) circumferential antral wall thickening and (b) thickening of the posterior gastric wall along the greater curvature, with or without evidence of ulceration. Thickening averaged 1.5-2.0 cm in cases suspicious for malignancy. The majority of abnormalities involved the gastric antrum (68%). No cases demonstrated significant adenopathy, obliteration of fat planes, or invasion of adjacent organs. 
Non-ominous micrometastases of gastric cancer. So-called R2 or wider meticulous node dissection was performed in 1368 patients with resected gastric cancer invading beyond the submucosa but without distant metastases. Survival rates were similar in subsets of patients with or without microscopic node metastases and macroscopically normal lymph nodes. The extent of node metastases has previously been shown to be one of the two most important prognostic factors in gastric cancer without distant metastases, and its lack of impact in these patient groups was not explained by the imbalance of other prognostic factors. The findings indicate that micrometastases of gastric cancer are curable by a wide node dissection made in the absence of palpable abnormality. They also offer the possibility that an extensive node dissection may yield good stage-specific survival rates, in part because of upstaging of patients. The findings should influence the recording of node metastases for evaluation of stage-specific treatment results and for research purposes. 
Excess mortality associated with diuretic therapy in diabetes mellitus OBJECTIVE. To determine whether the high mortality among diabetic patients receiving treatment for hypertension can be explained by associated risk factors or must be attributed to a deleterious effect of antihypertensive treatment. DESIGN. Cohort analytic study with a median follow-up of 4.5 years. SETTING. Outpatients with diabetes and severe retinopathy who were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial of laser treatment to prevent blindness had ophthalmologic examinations every 4 months and annual medical examinations that included measurement of blood pressure and recording of anti-hypertensive treatment. Only 5.5% of the patients were unavailable for follow-up. When a patient died, the circumstances surrounding the death were reviewed and classified by a mortality review committee. PARTICIPANTS.--There were 759 participants in the study; they were white, were aged 35 to 69 years, and had normal serum creatinine levels at the baseline examination. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS.--Patients were classified into five groups according to information recorded at the baseline and first annual follow-up examinations: normotensive (diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg), untreated hypertensive, hypertensive treated by diuretics alone, hypertensive treated by other agents alone, and hypertensive treated by both agents. Cardiovascular mortality was higher in patients treated for hypertension than in patients with untreated hypertension. The excess was primarily found in patients treated with diuretics alone, although that group had the lowest blood pressure with treatment. After adjusting for differences in risk factors, cardiovascular mortality was 3.8 times higher in patients treated with diuretics alone than in patients with untreated hypertension (P less than .001). CONCLUSIONS.--In individuals with diabetes, intervention with diuretics to reduce hypertension is associated with excess mortality. Until there is a clinical trial showing a beneficial effect of diuretic treatment in diabetic patients, there is urgent need to reconsider its continued usage in this population. 
Radiation and pagetic osteogenic sarcomas. Radiation and pagetic osteogenic sarcomas should be distinguished from classical osteogenic sarcoma. Both occur in older patients with significantly greater comorbidity. Roentgenographically, radiation osteogenic sarcoma is typically sclerotic, whereas pagetic osteogenic sarcoma is lytic and associated with pathologic fracture. Radical resections give the best result, local control, and survival. Chemotherapy has not proven effective to date. Improvements in tumor imaging and more intensive chemotherapy regimens may permit limb-sparing surgery. Overall results remain poor, with approximately 15% five-year survival in each condition. 
Phase II trial of pentostatin in refractory lymphomas and cutaneous T-cell disease. Thirty-seven patients with refractory lymphoma or cutaneous T-cell lymphoma were treated with 2'-deoxycoformycin (pentostatin; dCF), 5 mg/m2 intravenous (IV) bolus for 3 consecutive days of every 3-week cycle in this Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) trial. Included were 25 with the diagnosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, three with Hodgkin's disease, eight with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), and one with unknown subtype, of whom 31 were considered eligible. The majority had failed at least two, but no more, conventional chemotherapy regimens. Ten (32%) of the eligible patients had a partial response (PR), including patients with nodular poorly differentiated lymphocytic (NPDL), nodular mixed (NM), diffuse poorly differentiated lymphocytic (DPDL), or diffuse histiocytic (DH), lymphoma mixed-cellularity (MC), Hodgkin's disease, and unknown subtype, and in four patients with CTCL. The overall median time to treatment failure (TTF) was only 1.3 months, but the range extended to 57.3 months. The overall response duration was 16.0 months, and the range extended to 53.4 months. Overall median survival was 2.7 months, with the range extending to 63.2 months. The majority of patients had no toxicity, but there were some instances of severe or life-threatening events. Four fatal toxicities occurred, in two patients with underlying pulmonary conditions and two with prior cardiac histories. From this study, we conclude that dCF is active in refractory lymphomas and CTCLs, should be avoided in patients with a history of serious pulmonary or cardiac diseases, and warrants consideration for incorporation of a low-dosage schedule into conventional combination chemotherapy regimens, including its use with biologic response modifiers. 
Causes of blindness and visual handicap in the Central African Republic. The causes of bilateral blindness (best visual acuity less than 3/60) in 1371 people in the Central African Republic seen between 1985 and 1989 who attended eye clinics in 10 out of the 16 prefectures across the country are given. The main causes of bilateral blindness were cataract (51%), glaucoma (12.7%), and onchocerciasis (8.1%). In 710 patients with unilateral blindness the main causes were cataract (38%), glaucoma (10%), iritis (7.5%), and trauma (6.3%). Bilateral blindness in children was rarely seen. The causes of visual impairment (vision between 6/18 and 3/60) in 424 patients were cataract, including aphakia (38%), maculopathy (14%), and onchocerciasis (7%). 
Mechanisms of gastroduodenal protection by sucralfate. Over the past 5-10 years, a number of studies have shown that topical sucralfate enhances a number of gastric and duodenal mechanisms, e.g., the "mucus-bicarbonate barrier," mucosal hydrophobicity, mucosal blood flow, cell viability, and local production of prostaglandins, as well as endogenous mediators of tissue injury and repair. It seems likely that the complex actions of sucralfate are in part related to direct interaction between the drug or its components (aluminum, sucrose, and sulfate) and gastric mucosal tissues, and in part related to effects of the drug on the various mucosal mediators of tissue injury and repair. Local actions may play a role in accelerating healing of ulcer-damaged mucosa, but this does not explain the protective actions of sucralfate on normal mucosa. Thus sucralfate appears to enhance the protective function of the "mucus-bicarbonate" barrier by actions on both components. This may depend in part on an interaction with the unstirred layer overlying gastric epithelium. Sucralfate has also been shown to increase the hydrophobicity of mucus gel. There is little doubt that sucralfate increases local production and release of protective prostaglandins (PGs), but the precise role played by these agents in mediating mucosal protection and in chronic ulcer healing remains uncertain. Currently, the mechanism of action of sucralfate on vascular integrity remains unknown and the role of PGs in this protective function is unclear. There is little evidence that epidermal growth factor plays any role in mediating mucosal protection by sucralfate, but it may be important in its ulcer-healing action. Sucralfate has been shown to be truly "cytoprotective" in that it protects isolated epithelial cells from damage by noxious agents. In animals treated with sucralfate, the surface epithelial cells were disrupted, but necrotic lesions in the deep proliferative zone were virtually absent. It seems likely that investigations of the actions of sucralfate and its components will move ever closer to defining the target cells, the intracellular events, and the mediators that bring about its protective and ulcer-healing activity. 
Histological grading and bromodeoxyuridine labeling index of astrocytomas. Comparative study in a series of 60 cases. The histological grade and the bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR) labeling index of 60 astrocytomas of "ordinary" cell types (fibrillary, protoplasmic, gemistocytic, and anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastomas) were compared to determine whether the grading system reflects the proliferative potential of the tumors. The tumor grade was based on the presence or absence of four criteria (nuclear abnormalities, mitosis, necrosis, and vascular endothelial proliferation): Grade 1, no criterion, Grade 2, one criterion, Grade 3, two criteria; and Grade 4, three or four criteria. The BUdR labeling index, or percentage of S-phase cells, was calculated in paraffin-embedded tumor sections after in situ labeling by intraoperative intravenous infusion of BUdR, 200 mg/sq m. Exponential regression analyses showed a positive correlation between the histological grade and labeling index (r = 0.88, p less than 0.001) that was stronger than the correlations between log labeling index and age (r = 0.55, p less than 0.001) and between grade and age (r = 0.55, p less than 0.001). These results indicate that the histological grading system reflects the proliferative potential of "ordinary" astrocytomas. 
Acid perfusion test and 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring with symptom index. Comparison of tests for esophageal acid sensitivity. The acid perfusion (Bernstein) test and esophageal pH monitoring are the two most popular tests for identifying esophageal acid sensitivity in difficult cases of reflux disease. Therefore, we prospectively compared these test results in 75 consecutive noncardiac chest pain patients who had both an acid perfusion test and chest pain during 24-hr pH testing. A positive acid perfusion test was defined by the replication of the patient's typical chest pain twice by the acid infusion. Esophageal pH testing identified abnormal amounts of acid reflux and correlated symptoms with acid reflux--the "symptom index." Fifteen patients (20%) had a positive acid perfusion test while 45 patients (59%) had a positive symptom index (range 6-100%). Only 9/34 (26%) patients with abnormal reflux had a positive acid perfusion test. Although it had excellent specificity (83-94%), the acid perfusion test had poor sensitivity (32-46%) when compared to the symptom index regardless of the percent positive cutoff level. The best positive predictive value for the acid perfusion test was 87%, but this occurred when the test sensitivity was 32%. Modifying the end point of a positive acid perfusion test to include heartburn improves the sensitivity (52-67%) while markedly compromising specificity and positive predictive value. Thus, esophageal pH monitoring correlating symptoms with acid reflux is superior to the acid perfusion test for identifying an acid sensitive esophagus in patients with noncardiac chest pain. 
Acute infectious erythemas in children: a clinico-microbiological study. One-hundred children with an acute illness comprising fever and widespread erythematous rash were prospectively studied to determine whether clinical presentations are helpful in defining the causative agent and to identify the most appropriate microbiological specimens. An infectious agent was identified in 65 children; 72% were viruses, 20% were bacteria, 5% were Mycoplasma pneumoniae and in 3% both viruses and bacteria were detected. The most common infectious agents were picornaviruses, an atypical presentation of measles and Group A beta-haemolytic Streptococcus. Different patterns of rash occurred with each of these infections. The clinical presentation of a child with an acute febrile illness and rash was unhelpful in defining the causative agent. Routine management should include a throat swab for bacterial investigation and in selected cases a blood sample for IgM viral titres. 
Serum cholesterol concentration and coronary heart disease in population with low cholesterol concentrations. OBJECTIVE--To examine the relation between serum cholesterol concentration and mortality (from coronary heart disease and from other causes) below the range of cholesterol values generally seen in Western populations. DESIGN--Prospective observational study based on 8-13 years of follow up of subjects in a population with low cholesterol concentrations. SETTING--Urban Shanghai, China. SUBJECTS--9021 Chinese men and women aged 35-64 at baseline. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Death from coronary heart disease and other causes. RESULTS--The average serum cholesterol concentration was 4.2 mmol/l at baseline examination, and only 43 (7%) of the deaths that occurred during 8-13 years of follow up were attributed to coronary heart disease. There was a strongly positive, and apparently independent, relation between serum cholesterol concentration and death from coronary heart disease (z = 3.47, p less than 0.001), and within the range of usual serum cholesterol concentration studied (3.8-4.7 mmol/l) there was no evidence of any threshold. After appropriate adjustment for the regression dilution bias, a 4 (SD 1)% difference in usual cholesterol concentration was associated with a 21 (SD 6)% (95% confidence interval 9% to 35%) difference in mortality from coronary heart disease. There was no significant relation between serum cholesterol concentration and death from stroke or all types of cancer. The 79 deaths due to liver cancer or other chronic liver disease were inversely related to cholesterol concentration at baseline. CONCLUSION--Blood cholesterol concentration was directly related to mortality from coronary heart disease even in those with what was, by Western standards, a "low" cholesterol concentration. There was no good evidence of an adverse effect of cholesterol on other causes of death. 
The value of tests predicting renovascular hypertension in patients with renal artery stenosis treated by angioplasty. The aim of this study was to evaluate tests predicting renovascular hypertension. This was done by relating the results of renal vein renin tests, the captopril test, and renal scintigraphic tests to the blood pressure outcome 12 months after relief of renal artery stenosis by percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty in 31 patients. Cure was seen in eight (26%). Improved blood pressure was obtained in 12 patients (39%), and in 11 patients (35%), the result for blood pressure was a failure. The accuracies of the two mathematical models used to analyze the renal vein renin assays were 44% and 60%. The captopril test showed a sensitivity of 36% and an accuracy of 43%. Renal captopril technetium Tc 99m-labeled pentetic acid scintigraphy gave a sensitivity of 60%. Stepwise logistic regression analysis of clinical variables in relation to blood pressure response revealed age as the only factor significantly related to blood pressure outcome. We conclude that the tests used are unfit for helping select patients for percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty and that age may have an important influence on outcome. 
Surgical approaches to congenital atresia of the external auditory canal. During the past 4 years, 22 patients with congenital atresia of the external auditory canal underwent 24 initial operations by either an anterior or transmastoid approach. No attempt at randomization was made, but the two groups were similar in number and pathology (in 14 cases approach was anterior and in 10 cases approach was transmastoid). Followup ranged from 6 months to 4 years. Hearing results were similar in the two groups (71% with air-bone gap less than 30 dB). There were no instances of facial nerve injury or sensorineural hearing loss. Facial nerve monitoring was used. Complications of stenosis and drainage were more common with the transmastoid approach. In both groups, hearing results were accomplished with the patients' intact ossicles or prosthetic reconstructions. Meticulous soft-tissue technique, with split-thickness grafts covering all exposed bone, is the key to preventing stenosis. For the three cases of patients with thick, acellular atresia plates, a different approach was developed. Maintaining proper orientation during the medial dissection is more difficult in these cases. By opening the antrum primarily and identifying the lateral canal, ossicles, and facial nerve, an ear canal can then be created anteriorly with these landmarks in view. An intact canal wall-like procedure is carried out. Although hearing results are similar, the anterior approach, because of fewer postoperative complications, is now our procedure of choice. Proper orientation and soft-tissue technique are the keys to successful correction of the congenitally atretic ear canal. 
Hypoxic exposure and activation of the afterdischarge mechanism in conscious humans. After voluntary hyperventilation, normal humans do not develop a significant ventilatory depression despite low arterial CO2 tension, a phenomenon attributed to activation of a brain stem mechanism referred to as the "afterdischarge." Afterdischarge is one of the factors that promote ventilatory stability. It is not known whether physiological stimuli, such as hypoxia, are able to activate the afterdischarge in humans. To test this, breath-by-breath ventilation (VI) was measured in nine young adults during and immediately after a brief period (35-51 s) of acute hypoxia (end-tidal O2 tension 55 Torr). Hypoxia was terminated by switching to 100% O2 (end-tidal O2 tension of first posthypoxic breath greater than 100 Torr). Brief hypoxia increased VI and decreased end-tidal CO2 tension. In all subjects, termination of hypoxia was followed by a gradual ventilatory decay; hyperoxic VI remained higher than the normoxic baseline for several breaths and, despite the negative chemical stimulus of hyperoxia and hypocapnia, reached a new steady state without an apparent undershoot. We conclude that brief hypoxia is able to activate the afterdischarge mechanism in conscious humans. This contrasts sharply with the ventilatory undershoot that follows relief of sustained hypoxia, thereby suggesting that sustained hypoxia inactivates the afterdischarge mechanism. The present findings are of relevance to the pathogenesis of periodic breathing in a hypoxic environment. Furthermore, brief exposure to hypoxia might be useful for evaluation of the role of afterdischarge in other disorders associated with unstable breathing. 
Celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery injury associated with left radical nephrectomy for locally advanced renal cell carcinoma. The superior mesenteric artery and celiac axis were inadvertently ligated during left radical nephrectomy for a large upper pole renal carcinoma with massive perihilar and periaortic adenopathy. Computer-generated 3-dimensional illustrations created from the computerized tomography scan demonstrated the close proximity between these visceral branches and the adenopathy mass complex, and showed how this bulky disease may interfere with surgical anatomy. When left radical nephrectomy is performed for locally advanced and/or bulky node-positive renal neoplasms, surgeons must be cognizant of the location of the major visceral arterial branches and possible anatomical distortions. 
Effects of a minimally supervised exercise program for mentally retarded adults. Previous exercise studies that attempted to improve the cardiovascular fitness (CVF) of mentally retarded (MR) adults were flawed with methodological shortcomings that prevented conclusive results. At issue in these training studies were fitness test validity and reliability, exactness of duration and intensity of training, and an inordinate amount of supervision. Therefore, we sought to determine whether moderately MR adults (seven males, five females; IQ = 61 +/- 3, age = 25 +/- 3 yr) could improve their CVF through a minimally supervised 16-wk training program. Each subject repeated exercise tests twice on two different modes of exercise, the treadmill (TM) and Schwinn Air-Dyne ergometer (SAE), before training to ensure validity and reliability of initial CVF levels. Intensity and frequency of exercise were closely monitored. An observer was present during the training bouts, but, following initial instructions, no additional encouragement or instructions were given. Although the training program significantly increased peak VO2 (29.2 +/- 8 to 33.5 +/- 9 ml.kg-1.min-1) and peak ventilation (73 +/- 26 to 81 +/- 231.min-1) when assessed on the TM, significant changes in these same parameters were not seen when assessed on the SAE. The importance of these results was discussed. 
Cardiac surgery in the octogenarian: perioperative outcome and clinical follow-up The perioperative and follow-up results of cardiac operations employing extracorporeal circulation and cold cardioplegic arrest were examined in 191 consecutive patients greater than or equal to 80 years of age having surgery over a 5 year period (1982 to 1986). Most patients had severe preoperative symptoms with functional class III (39.8%) or IV (57.1%) limitation. The overall 30 day postoperative cardiac mortality rate was 15.7%. The total in-hospital mortality rate was 18.8%; the mean postoperative hospital stay was 16.4 +/- 13.3 days. The perioperative mortality rate for elective operations was as follows: coronary artery bypass (5.6%), aortic valve replacement (9.6%), aortic valve replacement with coronary bypass (17.9%) and mitral valve surgery with or without coronary bypass (21.4%). Urgent operations were performed in 39 patients (20.4%) with a total perioperative mortality rate of 35.9%; urgent coronary artery bypass was performed in 26 patients (67%) with an in-hospital mortality rate of 23.1%. Clinical evidence of left ventricular failure, functional class IV symptoms, left ventricular ejection fraction less than 50%, mitral valve repair or replacement for severe mitral regurgitation and urgent operation were associated with an increased perioperative mortality rate. Follow-up study in all 155 patients surviving postoperative hospitalization at 22.6 +/- 14.8 months showed significant improvement in symptom status in all surgical subgroups. There were 18 follow-up deaths (11.6%); 10 were noncardiac. The actuarial survival rate of the entire study group was significantly better than that in age- and gender-matched control subjects (p = 0.037). 
Interethnic differences in pain perception. While several investigators have reported relationships between ethnic background and expression of pain, such relationships are in fact highly problematical. Few studies of pain and ethnicity have used quantitative measures of pain combined with multivariate methods of data analysis. Most have focussed on populations which, unlike many in the United States today, are characterized by highly distinct ethnic groups. The study reported here interviewed 536 persons recently treated for forms of cancer known to cause significant pain. Pain was assessed using standard, well validated instruments, including Graphic Rating Scales anchored in several alternative time-frames and the McGill Pain Questionnaire. The study took place in an area with a low proportion of recent immigrants and only small concentrations of distinct ethnic minorities. No statistically significant relationships were observed between ethnic identity and measures of pain sensation. However, pain described in affective terms according to the McGill Pain Questionnaire did vary among ethnicities. This observation suggests that cultures associated with specific ethnic identities still condition individual expression of pain despite the high degree of assimilation that has occurred among ethnic groups in the United States. 
The role of platelet activating factor and its antagonists in shock, sepsis and multiple organ failure. PAF has been implicated as a mediator of shock, sepsis and MOF. The results of experimental data demonstrate that PAF induces changes characteristic of endotoxemia and sepsis, including systemic hypotension and diffuse microvascular leakage. These effects are prevented by PAF antagonists. PAF induces many of the characteristic changes of MOF, including functional impairment in the lung, kidney, gastrointestinal tract and heart. PAF antagonists will inhibit these adverse effects. PAF antagonists are now being manufactured by a number of pharmaceutical companies studying the beneficial effects of PAF antagonists in human disease. Data from these studies promise valuable information with significant clinical relevance to the practicing surgeon. 
A comparison of tocopherol and tocotrienol for the chemoprevention of chemically induced rat mammary tumors. Two forms of vitamin E, tocopherol and tocotrienol, were tested for chemopreventive activity in two chemically induced rat mammary-tumor models. When mammary tumors were induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA, 50 mg/kg), only the tocotrienol group had a statistically significant increase in tumor latency. There was no effect of either compound on tumor multiplicity. When tumors were induced by N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU, 30 mg/kg), neither analogue of vitamin E modified latency, whereas tocotrienol increased tumor multiplicity. In summary, neither vitamin analog had a major impact on mammary-tumor development after tumor induction with either DMBA or NMU. 
Increased negative inotropic effect of calcium-channel blockers in hypertrophied and failing rabbit heart. The effects on ventricular function of calcium channel blockers and isoproterenol were studied in isovolumically beating perfused control rabbit hearts and in hearts subjected to a double pressure plus volume overload studied at the early phase of heart failure. In control hearts, isoproterenol produced an increase of systolic ventricular function and relaxation that was maximal at 10(-7) M. In failing hearts, inotropic state increase in response to isoproterenol was significantly smaller (P less than .01) with no observed lusitropic effect. In control hearts, verapamil and diltiazem produced dose-dependent decreases of ventricular function which were larger with verapamil than with diltiazem (median drug concentration50 of developed pressure was, respectively, 1163 +/- 131 nM and 4524 +/- 451 nM, P less than .001). In failing hearts, contractility decrease was larger than in control hearts (median drug concentration50 of developed pressure was 604 +/- 69 nM and 2691 +/- 580 nM with verapamil and diltiazem, respectively). In contrast, Ro 40-5967, a new calcium-channel blocker, did not produce reductions of inotropic state with concentrations up to 10(-5) M. All three calcium-channel blockers produced a 2-fold increase of coronary flow at 10(-6) M. We conclude that the deleterious effect of verapamil and diltiazem in heart failure is due, at least in part, to a direct depressant effect of these drugs on contractility, which is larger than in control hearts. Additionally, the in vivo sympathetic compensation is probably reduced, as indicated by the decreased ventricular responsiveness to isoproterenol. 
Heart transplantation in children: an international survey. A survey of cardiac transplantation in children provided data from 381 transplantations in 362 patients from 32 centers in the United States and ten international centers. The number of transplantations continues to increase, in part because of transplantations in infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome and patients with congenital defects. The immunosuppression regimens were more uniform than in the 1985 survey, and triple therapy was most common. Actuarial survival rates were 85% at 1 month, 72% at 1 year, 64% at 3 years, and 60% at 5 years. However, these improved rates are still not equal to the survival of the overall cardiac transplant population, in part because of lower survival rates in neonates. Ventricular dysfunction and rejection, rather than infection, were the leading causes of death. Rejection and infection were the most frequent complications. Also common were hypertension (39%) and seizures (25%), whereas coronary artery disease (8%) was unusual. Functional results were excellent in 85%, and only 7% were disabled. Questions concerning growth rates and many other aspects cannot yet be answered. However, it is apparent that cardiac transplantation in the pediatric population is a very worthwhile endeavor. 
Practical phlebology. Sclerotherapy of large veins. A practical, step-by-step guide for the sclerotherapy of large varicose veins is offered. First, an orientation regarding the place of sclerotherapy and surgery in the total treatment of varicose veins is given, with a practical clinical classification of varicose veins. This is followed by a detailed discussion of patient education before sclerotherapy, material to be used with recommended concentrations, injection technique, compression after sclerotherapy, instructions to the patient after injection, and procedures at subsequent visits. 
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy study of human brain after cardiac resuscitation. We used 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to study the cerebral metabolic function of eight patients with severe postischemic anoxic encephalopathy secondary to cardiac arrest. Spectroscopy was performed at 18 +/- 13 and 64 +/- 20 hours after resuscitation. Glasgow Coma Scale scores at the time of initial and repeat spectroscopy were 3.6 +/- 1.2 and 3.5 +/- 1.2, respectively. In those patients whose spectra were of adequate quality to monitor pH, all demonstrated tissue alkalosis in at least one brain region. The mean brain pH at initial spectroscopy was 7.14 +/- 0.09 and was significantly alkalotic when compared with age- and sex-matched normal controls (pH = 6.98 +/- 0.04, p less than 0.0001). Five of the eight patients showed at least one region of persistent alkalosis at repeat spectroscopy, whereas one patient demonstrated severe acidosis with a pH of 6.42. Spectra demonstrated marked metabolic heterogeneity, ranging from normal in appearance to complete obliteration of all high-energy phosphates with only inorganic phosphate remaining. 
Supraciliary hemangiopericytoma. A 10-year-old black girl complaining of pain and decreased vision in the left eye was found to have a smoothly elevated ciliochoroidal mass involving the superonasal quadrant of the left eye. The mass appeared circumscribed and uniformly dense by computed tomography. The tumor was hyperintense to vitreous and cerebral white matter on T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging but was hypointense to vitreous and hyperintense to white matter on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Results of gross examination of the enucleated eye showed a sharply circumscribed, tan, intraocular mass arising equatorially. Results of histopathologic examination showed a well-vascularized spindle cell proliferation with a sinusoidal pattern characteristic of hemangiopericytoma. This is the third reported case of intraocular hemangiopericytoma and the first in a pediatric patient. 
Problems in the definition and treatment of early gastric cancer. Radical operation with extensive dissection of lymph nodes (R1, 48 patients; R2, 196 patients; R3, one patient) was performed in 245 out of 247 patients with early gastric cancer. The 5-year survival rate was only 73.2 per cent in the 34 patients with lymph node metastases (31.8 per cent). Analysis of factors influencing recurrence revealed that not only lymph node metastases but also the depth of cancer invasion could affect prognosis in early gastric cancer. This study suggests that radical operation with complete dissection of the first and second group of lymph nodes (R2 resection) is a safe and appropriate treatment even for early gastric cancer. We propose that the definition of early gastric cancer be modified to 'carcinoma with invasion confined to the mucosa or submucosa and without evidence of lymph node metastases'. 
Resection of residual mediastinal germ cell masses with the Cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator. Residual mediastinal masses after chemotherapy for germ cell tumors should be resected. Complete excision of bulky residual masses may sometimes be difficult because of problems with exposure in the region of the great vessels and important nerves. Two cases are presented in which the Cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator (Valleylab Inc., Surgical Systems Division, Stamford, Conn.) facilitated excision of large masses after intensive chemotherapy. We found that the collapsed pseudocapsule remaining after aspiration of tumor mass allowed early improved exposure and safer dissection from neighboring vessels and neural structures. Complete excisions were accomplished and no viable tumor was found, so that the patients were spared the immediate need for further therapy. Both had uneventful recoveries. 
Risk factors for stroke as predictors of platelet membrane fluidity in Alzheimer's disease. We have previously reported that increased platelet membrane fluidity identifies a subgroup of patients with Alzheimer's disease who have distinct clinical features including an earlier age of symptomatic onset, a more rapidly progressive cognitive decline, and a decreased prevalence of focal electroencephalographic findings. In the current study, these patients also exhibited a decreased prevalence of risk factors for stroke compared with patients who had normal platelet membrane fluidity. Our findings suggest that the platelet membrane abnormality describes a clinical subgroup of patients with Alzheimer's disease who are less likely to have coexisting cerebrovascular disease than the remaining patients who meet clinical consensus criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease. 
Results of total knee arthroplasty using the posterior stabilized condylar prosthesis. A report of 137 consecutive cases. One hundred thirty-seven consecutive posterior stabilized total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) were reviewed. Average age of the patient was 61.1 years and length of postoperative follow-up period was 29.2 months. Patients were evaluated using the Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) knee rating scores. Average preoperative scores improved from 52 to 92, postoperatively. Ninety-eight percent of patients had no pain or mild occasional pain postoperatively compared with 99% of patients experiencing severe to disabling pain preoperatively. Complications included one myocardial infarction, two deep venous thrombosis, one urinary tract infection, one patellar dislocation, and four wound problems. There were two incidences of seroma, one hematoma, and one deep infection requiring revision after joint debridement and systemic antibiotics. Also noted was one incidence of ligamentous laxity and one patella fracture. 
Precordial ST segment depression predicts a worse prognosis in inferior infarction despite reperfusion therapy. The Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) Study Group. The impact of associated precordial ST segment depression in inferior myocardial infarction on angiographic and clinical outcomes after thrombolytic therapy and selective coronary angioplasty was studied in 583 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Anterior infarction (Group I), inferior infarction with precordial ST segment depression (Group II) and inferior infarction without precordial ST segment depression (Group III) were present in 289, 135 and 159 patients, respectively. Precordial ST segment depression was more frequent in circumflex than right coronary infarct-related arteries (44 [71%] of 62 versus 91 [40%] of 230; p = 0.000). Although acute patency rates were not statistically different, there was a trend toward different patency rates at day 7 (Group I 88%, Group II 84%, Group III 80%; p = 0.089) partly because of insignificantly higher reocclusion rates in inferior infarction without precordial ST segment depression (Group I 11%, Group II 10%, Group III 18%, p = 0.104). Infarct zone regional wall motion (standard deviations/chord) in inferior infarction was lower with precordial ST segment depression, both acutely (Group I -2.8 +/- 0.9, Group II -2.5 +/- 1.2, Group III 2.0 +/- 1.1; p = 0.000) and at day 7 (Group I -2.2 +/- 1.1, Group II -2.3 +/- 1.1, Group III -1.9 +/- 1.3; p = 0.011). Precordial ST segment depression was associated with a lower ejection fraction in inferior infarction both acutely (Group I 47 +/- 11%, Group II 53 +/- 11%, Group III 58 +/- 9%; p = 0.000) and at day 7 (Group I 49 +/- 12%, Group II 53 +/- 10%, Group III 58 +/- 8%; p = 0.000). Complication rates tended to be higher in inferior infarction when precordial ST segment depression was present. Mortality rates for Groups I, II and III were 8%, 6% and 5%, respectively. These results suggest that precordial ST segment depression in inferior infarction predicts a worse ventriculographic and clinical outcome despite reperfusion therapy. 
Synergistic effect of intraperitoneally administered calcium channel blockade and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator to prevent adhesion formation in an animal model. Previous reports have shown the benefits of calcium channel blockers and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator to prevent postoperative adhesion formation in animal models. To assess the potential benefit of synergistic therapy for the prevention of postoperative adhesion formation, these agents were studied in a rabbit uterine horn model. Four groups of New Zealand White rabbits (n = 8 per group) had a bilateral devascularization injury to the uterine horns. Before closure saline solution, verapamil hydrochloride (2.5 mu/kg/hour), recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (4 mg total dose), or a combination of verapamil and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator at the stated doses were instilled by means of an Alzet osmotic pump x 200 hours. Adhesion scores were evaluated after this time period by estimating the total uterine horn surface involved in adhesions at a terminal laparotomy and by clinically grading the response to determine whether minimal adhesions formed. Results of the total uterine horn surface scores were (mean score +/- SE): saline solution, 44% +/- 3.7%; verapamil, 19% +/- 4.8%; recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, 11% +/- 3.6%; combined, 3% +/- 1% (p less than 0.01 to control and p less than 0.05 to single-drug therapy). Results of the number of animals per group with minimal adhesions were as follows: saline solution, 0; verapamil, 1; recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, 3; combined, 8 (P less than 0.01). These results show a synergistic benefit of verapamil and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator to prevent postsurgical adhesion formation when delivered via the intraperitoneal route. 
Myonecrosis and myofibrosis as complications of sickle cell anemia. Painful crises in sickle cell anemia are associated with infarction and subsequent fibrosis of many different organs. Myonecrosis secondary to muscle infarction during a crisis and subsequent fibrosis are often not recognized as complications of sickle cell anemia. We describe four patients, all of whom had recurrent episodes of symmetric proximal muscle pain and swelling as prominent features of their crises. Muscle biopsies showed acute myonecrosis with a minimal inflammatory reaction as well as myofibrosis with abundant collagen deposition. Chronic sequelae consisted of muscle induration, atrophy, and contractures. 
Effect of chronic ethanol feeding on high density lipoprotein subfractions in rats. We have reported previously that chronic alcohol consumption in the rat produced elevated total serum high density lipoprotein (HDL) fraction, but HDL particles of the alcohol-fed rat were deficient in apolipoprotein (apo) E. In that report, serum HDL particles were prepared by successive ultracentrifugation method and there were concerns that the apo E deficiency in HDL particles was artificially produced by centrifugal forces. In the present report, apo Al affinity column chromatography was used instead of successive ultracentrifugation and it likewise yielded HDL particles from alcohol-fed rats that exhibited lower apo E: apo Al ratio than HDL from control rats (0.185 +/- 0.016 vs. 0.303 +/- 0.017, respectively). When the total serum lipoprotein fraction (d less than 1.21) was analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), both HDL and VLDL peaks were higher in alcohol-fed rats than controls. The size of apo E deficient HDL particles from alcohol-fed rats determined by HPLC did not differ from that of normal HDL particles. When HDL (1.063 less than d less than 1.21) was subfractionated into HDL2 (1.063 less than d less than 1.125) and HDL3 (1.125 less than d less than 1.21), only HDL2 of alcohol-fed rats showed lowered apo E: apo Al ratio when compared with same HDL subfraction of control animals. Therefore, the molecular structure of only HDL2 (but not HDL3) was affected by alcohol-feeding. Another HDL subpopulation which is enriched with apo E, i.e. HDL1 (1.054 less than d less than 1.063), was also prepared. 
Use of echocardiography for patient management in chronic ischemic heart disease. Myocardial ischemia causes regional myocardial contractile and relaxation abnormalities. The extent of ischemia is determined by the distribution and severity of coronary artery stenoses. In coronary heart disease, two powerful predictors of prognosis are the coronary anatomy and ventricular function. Management in coronary heart disease is directed by accurate diagnosis and individualized objectives. Echocardiography at rest and exercise, combined with Doppler and color flow imaging, are properly applied to the differential diagnosis of common clinical syndromes in ischemic heart disease, the identification of the proximal coronary arteries, and the effects of ischemia and prior infarction. Subsequent use of coronary arteriography partially depends on the philosophy regarding the applicability of coronary surgery or angioplasty in an individual patient. Prediction of multivessel, left main, or proximal left anterior descending coronary artery disease by extensive wall motion abnormalities or an abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction may direct the clinician to coronary arteriography to select among coronary surgery, angioplasty, or medical management. 
Treatment of advanced-stage Hodgkin's disease: alternating noncrossresistant MOPP/CABS is not superior to MOPP. One hundred twenty-five assessable patients with advanced-stage Hodgkin's disease were randomized to receive mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP) or MOPP alternating with lomustine (CCNU), doxorubicin, bleomycin, and streptozocin (CABS). The median follow-up is 7.7 years. The complete response rate was 60 of 66 MOPP-treated patients (91%) and 54 of 59 MOPP/CABS-treated patients (92%) (difference not significant). The level of the disease-free survival curve at longest follow-up is 65% for MOPP-treated patients and 72% for MOPP/CABS-treated patients (difference not significant). The overall survival at 12 years is projected at 68% for MOPP-treated patients and 54% for MOPP/CABS-treated patients (difference not significant). Thus, there were no significant differences in efficacy between MOPP and MOPP/CABS. However, MOPP/CABS was more emetogenic than MOPP, and four MOPP/CABS-treated patients went on to develop secondary acute leukemia. No MOPP-treated patients developed leukemia. High initial erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and high platelet counts adversely affected treatment outcome. MOPP-treated patients who received greater than 81% of the projected dose intensity of vincristine over the first three cycles had significantly improved disease-free survival rates over those receiving less than 81%. MOPP/CABS-treated patients who received greater than 82% of the projected dose intensity of vincristine had significantly better overall survival than those who received less than 82%. Disease-free survival on both arms was significantly better in patients who received greater than 84% of the projected dose intensity of all agents. The effect of dose intensity was particularly apparent in patients with poor prognostic factors where those who received greater than 84% of the projected dose intensity of all agents had significantly improved disease-free and overall survival. 
HLA-DR expression on the microvasculature of portal tracts in idiopathic portal hypertension. Immunohistochemical characteristics and relation to portal phlebosclerosis. We recently reported that HLA-DR antigen was expressed on the microvasculature of portal tracts more frequently in idiopathic portal hypertension (IPH) than in normal livers or in other hepatic diseases, and that this HLA-DR expression may be involved in the development of the portal venopathy characteristic of IPH. The present study was performed to evaluate the relationship between the HLA-DR expression and portal tract lesions, as well as to investigate the immunohistochemical characteristics of the HLA-DR-positive microvasculature using liver wedge biopsy specimens obtained from 32 patients with IPH. According to the degree of phlebosclerosis of the portal veins, the portal tracts were divided into three groups: mild, moderate, and severe. The microvasculature in portal tracts was positive for HLA-DR in 21 (66%) of the 32 specimens and in 133 (44%) of 302 portal tracts. In the 21 specimens, there was no significant difference in the prevalence of HLA-DR-positive microvasculature among the three groups: it occurred in 57 (66%) of 86 portal tracts in the mild group, 53 (61%) of 87 portal tracts in the moderate group, and 23 (49%) of 47 portal tracts in the severe group. The HLA-DR-positive microvasculature was positive for type IV collagen and receptors of Ulex europaeus lectin I, suggesting that HLA-DR-positive microvessels are blood vessels. These findings suggest that HLA-DR antigen is already expressed on portal microvessels in the incipient stage of IPH, and that HLA-DR expression persists during the progression of portal phlebosclerosis. The HLA-DR expression may be an initiating factor leading to immunologic assault on portal microvessels in IPH. 
A prospective comparison of thromboembolic stockings, external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and heparin sodium/dihydroergotamine mesylate for the prevention of thromboembolic complications in urological surgery. Deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli are reported to occur in up to 66% of the patients undergoing a major urological operation. Thromboembolic stockings, external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and anticoagulant agents, such as heparin sodium plus dihydroergotamine mesylate, have been suggested to decrease the risk of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. A total of 74 evaluable patients undergoing a major urological operation was randomized to receive either thromboembolic stockings, external sequential pneumatic compression stockings, or heparin plus dihydroergotamine as prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. 111Indium-labeled platelet scans, performed preoperatively and on days 1, 3 and 6 postoperatively, were used to diagnose deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. Mean patient age was 63 years and all but 1 operation was performed for neoplastic disease. Deep venous thrombosis was detected in 5 of 25 patients (20%) with thromboembolic stockings, 3 of 24 (12.5%) with external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and 2 of 25 (8%) with heparin plus dihydroergotamine. There was no difference in blood loss or complications among the groups. Although statistical significance among the treatment groups was not reached in this study, the trend to a decrease in deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli with external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and heparin plus dihydroergotamine, and an absence of an increase in morbidity in these groups supports the use of these modalities to decrease the morbidity and mortality of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. 
Why don't all heavy snorers have obstructive sleep apnea? Patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and heavy snorers without apnea both show intrathoracic suction pressures during sleep that exceed their static upper airway closing pressures. Complete airway occlusion, however, occurs only in the former patient group. We hypothesized that the kinetic properties of the airflow would be different in these two types of patients because of differences in upper airway morphology. The pharyngeal computed tomography (CT) was used to measure the cross-sectional areas of the upper airways in 15 patients with OSA, 25 nonapneic heavy snorers, and 14 control subjects while they were awake. Nocturnal breathing was monitored with the static charge-sensitive bed (SCSB). The patients with OSA had a narrower airspace at the velopharyngeal (VP) level than the controls (p less than 0.01); the nonapneic snorers did not differ from the other groups. At the tongue base (TB) and the hyoid bone (HB) levels there was no difference between the OSA and the control groups, but the nonapneic snorers had narrower airways at both of these levels compared with control subjects (p less than 0.01) and at the hyoid bone level compared with the OSA group (p less than 0.05). The VP/HB ratio was the parameter that best distinguished the patients with OSA from the nonapneic snorers (lower in the OSA group, p less than 0.001). We suggest that airway collapse during sleep is favored by a narrow velopharynx associated with large hypopharynx. Some heavy snorers may not have an oropharyngeal collapse because the peak inspiratory suction pressure could already be damped down at the level of the relatively narrow hypopharyngeal airways. 
Internal mammary artery subclavian vein fistula following internal jugular vein catheterization. A case report and review of the literature. We have recently treated a patient with an arteriovenous fistula that developed after a right internal jugular vein catheterization. The patient was found to have a pulsatile hematoma and a bruit five days after removal of a temporary pacemaker catheter. Digital subtraction arteriography documented a fistula between the right internal mammary artery and subclavian vein. The fistula was surgically repaired via the cervical route. To our knowledge, an arteriovenous fistula between the internal mammary artery and subclavian vein has not been previously described as a complication of a percutaneous internal jugular vein catheterization. 
Animal model of gluten induced enteropathy in mice. The aim of our experiments was to produce a local T cell mediated immune response to gliadin in the mouse small intestine as a possible animal model of gluten sensitive enteropathy, coeliac disease. BALB/c and BDF1 mice were immunised systemically with gliadin in complete Freund's adjuvant. The jejunal mucosa was challenged by feeding a gluten containing diet, and villus and crypt lengths, crypt cell production rate, and intraepithelial lymphocyte counts were determined to assess mucosal cell mediated immunity. In some animals permeability and local immunity were modulated by concurrent intestinal anaphylaxis or a graft versus host reaction. There were no changes in the jejunal mucosa of BALB/c mice fed a gluten containing diet after having been parenterally immunized. When, however, mice were parenterally immunised with gliadin, fed a gluten containing diet, rendered hypersensitive to helminth antigen by infection with the nematode parasite Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, and challenged intravenously to produce intestinal anaphylaxis crypt cell production rate was significantly higher than in ovalbumin immunized controls at 12 days after parasite challenge. Finally, graft versus host reaction was induced in BDF1 mice that had been parenterally immunised with gliadin and were on a gluten containing diet. Two weeks later these mice had significantly longer crypts and a higher crypt cell production rate and intraepithelial lymphocyte count than control, unimmunized mice with graft versus host reaction. We conclude that active immunization with gliadin does not in itself produce intestinal cell mediated immunity to gliadin contained in the diet, or enteropathy. 
Adrenal suppression and growth retardation after injection of periocular capillary hemangioma with corticosteroids. Adrenal suppression and/or growth retardation were noted in two patients after injection of periocular capillary hemangiomas with corticosteroids. Parents should be warned of these two potential complications of intralesional corticosteroid therapy. Baseline and posttreatment adrenal function should be monitored. If iatrogenic adrenal suppression occurs, supplemental systemic corticosteroids may be necessary in situations involving systemic stress such as infection or surgery. 
Idiopathic myointimal hyperplasia of mesenteric veins. Nonthrombotic occlusion or stenosis of the mesenteric veins is a rare cause of intestinal ischemia that usually occurs in association with systemic vasculitis. The current report includes four male patients with segmental ischemic colitis caused by idiopathic myointimal hyperplasia in the small mesenteric veins and their intramural branches; neither vasculitis nor arterial involvement were present. Three of the four patients were less than or equal to 38 years of age; the fourth was 67. All four patients were previously healthy and had no history of drug use of any kind. Clinical findings included abdominal pain, diarrhea, bloody stools, and colonic strictures discovered by barium enema. The intima of the mesenteric and intestinal mural veins was focally thickened by a marked increase in cells and matrix between the endothelium and internal elastic lamina, whereas the vessel walls external to the thickened intima appeared normal. Histochemistry and immunoreactivity with antibodies to muscle-specific actins (HHF-35) disclosed that the intimal thickening was caused by proliferation of smooth muscle cells in a proteoglycan matrix. All patients recovered completely after segmental resection of the ischemic portion of the colon and had no recurrence of intestinal symptoms on follow-up of up to 7 years. These unusual venous lesions do not appear to have been previously described; their etiology and pathogenesis remain unknown. 
Ten-year follow-up of patients with secondary amenorrhea and normal prolactin. A group of 46 patients with secondary amenorrhea without galactorrhea or hyperprolactinemia were studied retrospectively after being clinically categorized into four groups with the use of progesterone-induced uterine bleeding and measurement of serum gonadotropins and prolactin levels. The ability to have regular spontaneous menstrual cycles and to conceive was assessed after a follow-up period of 10 years. Patients who had been classified as having hypothalamic pituitary "failure" (hypoestrogenic amenorrhea) with low levels of circulating estradiol had a greater rate of recovery of spontaneous ovulation and menses when compared with patients who had been classified as having only hypothalamic pituitary dysfunction (euestrogenic amenorrhea). The patients with diagnosis of hyperandrogenic chronic anovulation or polycystic ovary syndrome generally required clomiphene citrate for induction of ovulation and almost all the patients with premature ovarian failure (hypergonadotropic amenorrhea) remained estrogen-deficient and unable to ovulate. Hyperprolactinemia or an identifiable pituitary adenoma has not developed in any of the patients to date. 
Could recurrent cholangitis after Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy be explained by motor intestinal anomalies? A manometric study. The aim of this study was to describe the motor patterns found in two patients with recurrent cholangitis episodes after Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy. In one patient, cholangitis was due to a stenosis of the anastomosis between the limb and the left intrahepatic bile duct, while motility of the limb, duodenum, and distal jejunum was normal. In the second patient, no anatomical explanation was found for cholangitis attacks. However, although the duodenal motor activity was normal, the motility of the limb and of the jejunum below the jejunojejunal anastomosis was grossly abnormal: permanent minute rhythm, phase IIIs absent or rare and slowly propagated, all motor abnormalities that could promote bacterial overgrowth in the limb. This stresses the interest in performing motor studies of the Roux-limb when cholangitis remains unexplained after Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy. 
Tissue eosinophilia and eosinophil degranulation in orbital pseudotumor. To investigate the participation of the eosinophil in orbital pseudotumor, the authors studied surgical biopsy specimens from nine patients with pseudotumor. Surgical biopsy specimens of orbital tissue from four patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy and autopsy specimens of orbital tissue from six patients without orbital diseases served as controls. Eosinophil infiltration and degranulation were assessed by immunofluorescence staining of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues for the cytotoxic eosinophil granule major basic protein. Eosinophil infiltration and extracellular major basic protein deposition were evident in all orbital pseudotumor specimens. In contrast, no eosinophil infiltration or extracellular major basic protein deposition was present in any of the ten control specimens. These findings indicate that eosinophil degranulation is found in orbital pseudotumor, and they also identify yet another clinical entity where eosinophil infiltration and degranulation are associated with fibrosis. 
Arteriovenous fistulas complicating biopsy of renal allografts: treatment of bleeding with superselective embolization. The use of superselective embolization was assessed as a treatment for bleeding from postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) in renal transplants. AVFs commonly occur after biopsy procedures in renal transplants, but severe bleeding is rare. Transcatheter embolization can be used to control bleeding, but unless it is sufficiently selective, the procedure results in loss of significant amounts of renal parenchyma. During a 4-year period, embolization procedures were attempted in seven patients 30-65 years old. All had AVFs shown on arteriography. Five patients underwent embolization; occlusion occurred only in the branch supplying the AVF. In one patient with three large AVFs, two were found to have occluded the day after embolization was attempted. In another, an AVF occluded when superselective catheter position was achieved but before embolization. Catheter manipulation in these cases may have precipitated occlusion. In five cases, coaxial embolization techniques were used. Embolization materials consisted of coils in three cases: 0.038 in. (0.97 mm) in one case, 0.025 in. (0.64 mm) in one case, 0.018 in. (0.46 mm) in one case; 0.038 in. (0.97 mm) coils and gelatin foam particles in one case; and localized contrast extravasation in one case. Serum creatinine level was measured before and after embolization in all patients, and radionuclide studies were undertaken in three cases. In all patients, bleeding was effectively controlled. None of the patients showed an increase in serum creatinine level after embolization, and in four, significant improvement was seen. Nuclear medicine studies showed no loss of renal function and a dramatic improvement in one patient. No complications due to the procedure were seen. Our experience suggests that superselective embolization with coaxial catheter techniques is an effective method of treating bleeding from postbiopsy AVFs in renal transplants with minimal loss of renal parenchyma. 
Effect of preexisting brain ischemia on sympathetic nerve response to intracranial hypertension. The performance of the sympathetic nervous system during sustained moderate cerebral ischemia (CI) was examined in the present study. For this purpose, a Cushing response was elicited repeatedly during incomplete global CI in anesthetized artificially ventilated cats after vagotomy and baroreceptor denervation. In control animals without CI, sympathetic activity in response to brief elevation of intracranial pressure (ICP) showed a well-repeatable two-phase reaction. During CI there was a progressive deterioration of background sympathetic nerve discharge (SND) over a period of 30 min. SND response to repeated elevation of ICP was initially similar to control response but later with progression of CI was seriously changed. 1) Instead of the usual hyperactivation, sympathetic nerve activity was depressed during intracranial hypertension. 2) The characteristic desynchronized activity either appeared later during the reperfusion period or remained absent. The progressive loss of SND response to raised ICP in developed CI was compared with the changes seen in experiments in which repeated ICP elevations were superimposed on asphyxia. These findings suggest that the sympathetic component of the Cushing reaction strongly depends on the actual state of brain stem autonomic circuits and may be seriously altered in pathological situations involving ischemic brain injury. 
Free magnesium levels in normal human brain and brain tumors: 31P chemical-shift imaging measurements at 1.5 T. We have studied a series of normal subjects and patients with brain tumors, by using 31P three-dimensional chemical shift imaging to obtain localized 31P spectra of the brain. A significant proportion of brain cytosolic ATP in normal brain is not complexed to Mg2+, as indicated by the chemical shift delta of the beta-P resonance of ATP. The ATP beta-P resonance position in brain thus is sensitive to changes in intracellular free Mg2+ concentration and in the proportion of ATP complexed with Mg because this shift lies on the rising portion of the delta vs. Mg2+ titration curve for ATP. We have measured the ATP beta-P shift and compared intracellular free Mg2+ concentration and fractions of free ATP for normal individuals (n = 6) and a limited series of patients with brain tumors (n = 5). In four of the five spectra obtained from brain tissue containing a substantial proportion of tumor, intracellular free Mg2+ was increased, and the fraction of free ATP was decreased, compared with normal brain. 
Otolaryngologic manifestations of gastroesophageal reflux. The exact incidence of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is unknown, although it is estimated that at least 25% of patients with GER have head and neck symptoms alone. These symptoms may consist of one or more of the following: excess salivation, hoarseness, "post-nasal drip," voice change, persistent coughing, food sticking in the throat, globus hystericus, otalgia, throat clearing, neck pain, sore throats, the sensation of a lump in the throat, choking spells, and bronchospasm. Carcinoma of the larynx and upper aerodigestive tract may be a consequence of chronic reflux. GER, especially when the classic symptoms of reflux are absent, is frequently overlooked as a cause of these problems. This article reviews the symptoms and pathophysiology of these conditions. The diagnostic and therapeutic modalities available to us in managing these patients are also discussed. 
The current status of maternal and fetal blood flow velocimetry. Significant progress has been achieved in regard to normative data for uteroplacental and fetal blood flow velocity and the factors which may affect these observations. Associations have been demonstrated between abnormal indices of maternal and fetal blood flow velocity and pregnancy-induced hypertension, fetal growth retardation, fetal blood gas measures, and intrapartum clinical fetal distress. However, in general, the predictive power is modest and no evidence has yet been provided to indicate that these measures can be used as a screening test in the general obstetric population. Continuing research is highly desirable. At the present time, the use of Doppler assessment of blood flow in pregnancy should be limited to the investigational setting. 
Central retinal vein occlusion associated with drusen of the optic disc. A 43-year-old man had gradual visual changes OD. Funduscopic examination revealed central retinal vein occlusion OD. Complete ocular examination revealed bilateral drusen of the optic disc, confirmed by b-scan ultrasonography. Complete systemic evaluation showed no other etiology for the central retinal vein occlusion. Over a ten-year follow-up, in the absence of systemic disease or other local ocular anomalies, we concluded that central retinal vein occlusion can arise from external compression secondary to drusen of the optic disc. 
Congenital sideroblastic anaemia in two girls. Transfusion dependent congenital sideroblastic anaemia occurred in infancy in two unrelated girls. One girl developed early organ failure which was not prevented by standard chelation treatment. The combination of modest iron burden and putative intrinsic mitochondrial dysfunction could have accounted for the clinical picture. The other girl remained well, receiving regular transfusion and standard chelation treatment. She had normal liver function and no other evidence of organ damage. The syndrome is unlikely to be due to extreme lyonisation in carriers of the usual X-linked condition. The contrasting clinical patterns seen in these two patients suggest that transfusion dependent congenital sideroblastic anaemia may comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders. It is suggested that such children be carefully monitored for evidence of increasing iron overload so that organ damage can be prevented. 
Novel therapy for the treatment of human carcinoid. Development of effective treatment for patients with carcinoid tumors has been hampered by lack of an experimental model. The authors have established the only long-term cell line of a functioning human pancreatic carcinoid tumor (BON) that produces tumors in nude mice. In this study the authors examined the effect of three agents, alpha-interferon (IFN), a somatostatin analog, SMS 201-995 (SMS), and an inhibitor of polyamine biosynthesis, alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), on the growth of BON tumors. BON was implanted bilaterally as 3-mm2 pieces (subcutaneously [sc]) into male BALB/c nude mice. In the first study, 23 mice were randomized to four groups: control, IFN (1 x 10(6) units, sc, four times a day), IFN + SMS (300 micrograms/kg, intraperitoneally, three times a day), and IFN + 3% DFMO in drinking water. Treatments were initiated on day of tumor implantation. In the second study, mice were randomized to six groups: control, IFN, SMS, DFMO, IFN + SMS, IFN + DFMO, and IFN + SMS + DFMO. Treatments were started on day 15 after tumor implantation. Tumor area and body weights were measured weekly. In both studies mice were killed on day 28 after BON implantation and tumors removed, weighed, and analyzed for DNA and RNA content. In the first study, IFN either alone or in combination with SMS or DFMO suppressed BON tumor growth. When treatment was initiated after established tumor growth (study 2), however, the only effective treatments for suppression of growth of BON were IFN + DFMO and IFN + DFMO + SMS. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of human spinal cord infarction. Magnetic resonance images obtained in two cases of spinal cord infarction are described: one with hemorrhagic thoracic cord infarct, the other with ischemic cervical cord infarct with sequential magnetic resonance imagings. An enlarged cord with strand-shape or longitudinal hypointensity on both T1- and T2-weighted images was noticed in the hemorrhagic infarct; hypointensity on the T2-weighted image was thought to be due to hemosiderin, which shortens T2 relaxation. In the ischemic infarct, a small, round area of hypointensity on T1-weighted images, and of hyperintensity on T2-weighted images, noted 9 hours postictus ("early infarct") changed on the 22nd day to a cephalocaudal strandlike hypointensity on T1-weighted image, which was enhanced by Gd-DTPA. The hypointensity suggested "pencil-like softening" in "medium" age infarct. On postictal day 49, it showed an extensive homogeneous hypointensity involving several segments of the cord on T1-weighted images and hyperintensity on T2-weighted images with negative Gd-DTPA enhancement suggesting "late transverse infarct." We considered that these changes are of value in diagnosing spinal cord infarcts on magnetic resonance imagings. 
High rate of portal thrombosis after splenectomy in patients with esophageal varices and idiopathic portal hypertension. Data on 126 consecutive patients who were admitted to our clinics from January 1979 to May 1989 were scrutinized to assess changes in portal hemodynamics following splenectomy. Two groups were classified: (1) a group of 106 patients with cirrhosis of the liver and (2) a group of 20 patients with idiopathic portal hypertension (IPH). Portal thrombosis was present in five (25.0%) of the 20 patients with IPH and in two (1.8%) of the 106 patients with cirrhosis of the liver. As seen on celiac arteriography, the mean (+/- SD) diameter of the trunk of the splenic artery and vein was 8.99 +/- 1.55 and 16.2 +/- 3.6 mm, respectively, in patients with IPH, while it was 7.94 +/- 1.28 and 14.2 +/- 3.1 mm, respectively, in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. Changes in portal venous pressure were 78.4 +/- 59.4 mm H2O in patients with IPH and 43.5 +/- 38.7 mm H2O in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. There were no significant differences in the maximum level of thrombocytes in patients with IPH or in those patients with cirrhosis of the liver. These events suggest that portal thrombosis can occur with a significantly higher incidence in patients with IPH than in those patients with cirrhosis of the liver after splenectomy, and a decrease in blood flow in the portal vein may be closely linked to the formation of portal thrombosis after splenectomy in patients with IPH. Preoperative examination of portal hemodynamics must be thorough. 
Stress-induced gastroduodenal lesions and total parenteral nutrition in critically ill patients: frequency, complications, and the value of prophylactic treatment. A prospective, randomized study. OBJECTIVE: To assess the frequency, complications, and value of prophylactic treatment of stress-induced gastroduodenal lesions. DESIGNS: Patients were prospectively randomized to treatment with total parenteral nutrition, either alone, with sucralfate, or with ranitidine. SETTING: A multidisciplinary ICU from a tertiary care referral center. PATIENTS: Ninety-seven patients submitted to prolonged mechanical ventilation, with normal hepatic and renal function, in metabolic stress, and receiving total parenteral nutrition. INTERVENTIONS: On admission, we determined the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score and the catabolic index score. We also performed an endoscopic examination on day 3, every 7 days subsequently, and whenever needed. Thirty patients received total parenteral nutrition alone. Twenty-four patients received total parenteral nutrition and sucralfate (1 g by nasogastric tube every 4 hrs). Nineteen patients received total parenteral nutrition and ranitidine (50 mg iv every 6 hrs). MAIN RESULTS: The overall occurrence rate of gastroduodenal mucosal damage was 29.6%. The overall frequency rate for stress ulcerations was 15.6% and was 6.2% for stress hemorrhage. There were no deaths secondary to stress hemorrhage. The difference in the frequency of stress-induced mucosal lesions and stress hemorrhage between the studied groups was not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Additional prophylaxis to total parenteral nutrition in the form of sucralfate and ranitidine to prevent acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding is not required in this group of ICU patients. 
Intraperitoneal thrombolytic agents in relapsing or persistent peritonitis of patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Urokinase or streptokinase was instilled intraperitoneally as an adjunct to the antibiotic therapy in 16 episodes of relapsing or persistent peritonitis in CAPD patients. In eight patients the combination of antibiotics and intraperitoneal thrombolytic agents resulted in clearing of the infection with no recurrences. The treatment failed in eight other patients, who had their peritoneal catheters removed. Six of the last eight patients had either abdominal wall abscesses or persistence of the bacteria on the wall of the peritoneal catheter. Elevated post-intraperitoneal instillation peritoneal fluid neutrophil counts and positive post-instillation peritoneal fluid cultures predicted failure of the intraperitoneal instillation of thrombolytic agents in most instances. Intraperitoneal instillation of urokinase or streptokinase may help cure approximately 50% of the episodes of relapsing for persistent peritonitis. Post-instillation peritoneal fluid cell counts and cultures should be monitored. Radiologic investigation for abdominal wall or intraabdominal abscesses is indicated if intraperitoneal instillation of urokinase or streptokinase fails to eradicate peritonitis. 
Expression of c-jun, jun-B, and c-fos proto-oncogenes in human primary melanocytes and metastatic melanomas. Analysis of the regulation of c-jun, jun-B, and c-fos RNA transcript expression was performed in human primary melanocytes and metastatic melanoma cell strains. The medium requirements for human melanocyte in vitro growth are phorbol esters, agents that elevate intracellular cAMP levels, hormones, and growth factors. Cellular jun, jun-B, and c-fos gene expression are known to be affected by growth promoting agents. In primary melanocytes, the expression of c-jun, jun-B, and c-fos RNA transcripts was dependent on the growth-promoting agents present in the medium. Uniformly high c-jun, jun-B, and c-fos RNA transcript levels were observed in melanocytes cultivated in complete medium. Higher levels of c-jun RNA transcripts and low levels of c-fos RNA transcripts were observed in melanocytes cultivated in plain medium. In contrast, a range of c-jun, jun-B, and c-fos RNA transcript levels was detected in metastatic melanoma cell strains cultivated in medium with or without serum. In general, an increase in jun-B and c-fos RNA transcript expression and a decrease in c-jun RNA transcript expression was observed in metastatic melanomas compared to neonatal melanocytes. These data suggest a potential role for c-jun, jun-B, and c-fos genes in the transformation of melanocytes to malignant melanoma. 
Pain characterization in cancer patients and the analgetic response to epidural morphine. In 48 patients with pain related to malignancy, a pain characterization was performed during oral opioid therapy. After an optimal epidural morphine regimen had been established, the alteration in pain relief was evaluated by means of a visual analogue scale. The CSF and plasma morphine concentrations at minimum steady state were then analysed in 28 patients and related to the degree of pain relief. The efficacy of the spinal treatment ranked in the following order: somatic greater than visceral greater than radiating = 0, but the difference was only significant between the somatic and radiating pain groups. There was a tendency for continuous pain to be better relieved than intermittent pain. No correlations were found between the CSF or plasma morphine concentrations and the degree of pain relief, suggesting that not all pain impulses are modulated in a dose-dependent manner by morphine at the spinal level. Pain characterization may be instrumental in providing an optimal spinal opioid analgesia in malignancy. Moreover, there is a need for better defined diagnostic criteria for clinical pain characterization. 
Diagnosis of genetic disease by primer-specified restriction map modification, with application to cystic fibrosis and retinitis pigmentosa Detection of small alterations or abnormalities in genomic DNA (eg, point mutations or small deletions) has become increasingly important in the diagnosis of genetic disease and polymorphism. When a mutation or polymorphism creates a new restriction endonuclease site, it can easily be identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the DNA region of interest, followed by digestion with the restriction endonuclease. However, useful restriction sites are the exception, and a variety of specialised techniques have been developed to identify subtle DNA abnormalities. We have shown that where a DNA mutation does not create a useful novel restriction site, such a site can be introduced by PCR and specially chosen primers. The approach is simple and inexpensive and should be broadly applicable in the diagnosis of genetic polymorphism and mutation. The technique is illustrated here by the three base-pair deletion responsible for most cases of cystic fibrosis and by detection of the point mutation in the rhodopsin gene that has been associated with some cases of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. 
Percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty following surgical repair of sinus venosus atrial septal defect. Mitral valvuloplasty performed 5 y after repair of a sinus venosus ASD was difficult because of a thickened septum, but resulted in improved mitral valve opening and did not lead to ASD. Thus, prior repair of a sinus venosus ASD may not be an absolute contraindication to mitral valvuloplasty. 
Value of quantitative nucleolar features in the preoperative cytological diagnosis of follicular neoplasias of the thyroid. Nucleolar prevalence, size, and outline were investigated on cytological material from cold thyroid nodules obtained by fine needle aspiration. The percentage of nucleolated nuclei in follicular adenoma (32 cases) was less than in follicular carcinoma (26 cases). In adenoma most nuclei contained one nucleolus, and nuclei with two or more nucleoli were less common than in carcinoma where most cases showed the highest nucleolar diameter values. There was some overlap between adenomas and carcinomas, however, when the mean of the 10 largest values of the major nucleolar diameter was considered. In follicular carcinoma the percentage of marginated nucleoli--that is, those touching the nuclear membrane--was, in general, greater than 20%; in adenoma the values were equal to or lower than 16%. The overlap index showed that the percentages of marginated nucleoli and nucleolated nuclei are the two best discriminatory features between adenoma and carcinoma. 
Experimental arterial thrombosis in nonhuman primates. The baboon offers many advantages as an experimental animal to study vascular disease, thrombus formation and dissolution, effects of mediating variables, and the relative efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Each specific application for testing therapeutic agents may require testing in somewhat different model systems. For example, although the arteriovenous vascular graft model is efficient, cost effective, and well adapted to study of interventions for acute arterial thrombosis, surgical endarterectomy extends the evaluation to include interactions with the injured vascular wall. As the antithrombotic products of genetic engineering and molecular biology emerge, it will be increasingly important to have relevant, reproducible, and quantitative approaches to evaluate their effects in vivo. 
Respiratory-related recruitment of the masseter: response to hypercapnia and loading. To test the hypothesis that a muscle that closes the jaw, the masseter, can be recruited by ventilatory stimuli, we studied the electromyographic activation of the masseter and genioglossus in seven normal awake males who were exposed in random order to progressive hyperoxic hypercapnia, inspiratory threshold loading (-40 cmH2O), and combined hypercapnia and loading. With hypercapnia, the masseter was generally recruited after the genioglossus had been activated. Once recruited, activation of both muscles increased linearly with increasing CO2. Combined hypercapnia and loading produced more activation than either stimulus alone. These data indicate that the masseter is activated by ventilatory stimuli that activate the genioglossus. Earlier recruitment of the genioglossus suggests that activation of the masseter serves to stabilize the mandible and allow the genioglossus to function as a more efficient dilator of the upper airway. 
Acute pandysautonomic neuropathy. Acute pandysautonomic neuropathy is characterized by severe postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic dysfunction, with relative or complete sparing of motor and sensory function. Of four reported cases with sural nerve biopsies, two were normal and two abnormal, revealing loss of small myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. We present a patient with pandysautonomic neuropathy and elevated CSF protein whose sural nerve biopsy showed active axonal degeneration. 
Aseptic meningitis following cardiac transplantation: clinical characteristics and relationship to immunosuppressive regimen. Neurologic disorders are uncommon but alarming complications of cardiac transplantation. Of 29 patients from the Utah Cardiac Transplant Program (UCTP) who had lumbar puncture because of change in neurologic function, or to assess fever of uncertain etiology, CSF pleocytosis was present in 14 patients, 4 of whom had an active infectious process involving the nervous system. In 10 other patients, CSF pleocytosis with negative cultures appeared following treatment with OKT3 monoclonal antibody. The most prominent clinical signs of this aseptic meningitis syndrome are fever and transient cognitive dysfunction. 
Extubation after transsternal thymectomy for myasthenia gravis: a prospective analysis. Recommendations concerning postoperative extubation after thymectomy for myasthenia gravis are presently based upon retrospective chart reviews. We present the results of a prospective investigation of time to extubation after thymectomy for 14 patients over a 12-month period based upon a protocol that included preoperative immunologic therapy, combined epidural and general anesthesia, postoperative epidural narcotic analgesia, and a standardized approach to discontinuation of ventilatory support. After a neurologist took measures to optimize preoperative neuromuscular function, all 14 patients received agents to produce lumbar epidural anesthesia and light general anesthesia. Muscle relaxants were avoided in all but one patient. Postoperative analgesia was initially maintained with epidural hydromorphone, then therapy was switched to patient-controlled intravenous morphine sulfate. Criteria for weaning from mechanical ventilation, first measured at the end of anesthesia, were partial pressure of oxygen (arterial) greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg (fraction of inspired oxygen = 0.40), partial pressure of carbon dioxide (arterial) less than or equal to 50 mm Hg, pH greater than or equal to 7.30, and respiratory rate less than or equal to 30 breaths/min. If these criteria were not met, ventilatory support was continued postoperatively with intermittent mandatory ventilation, and the patient was weaned gradually from this support. Criteria for extubation included meeting the criteria for weaning, vital capacity greater than or equal to 10 mL/kg, and inspiratory pressure better than -30 cm H2O. Criteria for reintubation included tachypnea (respiratory rate greater than 40 breaths/min), respiratory acidosis not due to narcotics, or vital capacity less than or equal to 8 mL/kg. The mean time to extubation was 9 hours (range, 0.75 to 25 hours). Mean preoperative vital capacity was 2.59 +/- 0.64 L (range, 1.90 to 4.20), which decreased approximately 50% to 1.19 +/- 0.39 L (range, 0.70 to 2.0) at the time of extubation. No patient required reintubation. Half of the patients required postoperative anticholinesterase therapy based upon serial neurologic examinations; there were no instances of cholinergic crisis. Thirteen patients returned to the ward on the first postoperative day, and one on the second day. Thirteen patients preferred epidural analgesia to patient-controlled analgesia. The time to extubation and average length of stay in an intensive care setting were markedly reduced compared to those reported in previous retrospective studies. We conclude that a multidisciplinary approach that optimizes neuromuscular function and decreases poststernotomy pulmonary insult will shorten the time to extubation and decrease the length of stay in the intensive care or recovery room after thymectomy. 
The use of potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser for laparoscopic removal of ovarian endometrioma. From January 1989 through January 1990, 31 patients thought to have ovarian endometrioma at ultrasonography were treated by operative laparoscopy and potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser. The endometriomas ranged from 2 to 9.2 cm in diameter by preoperative transvaginal ultrasonography. The operative procedure used was a three-puncture technique with a 600 micron fiber attached to a potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser. The power setting was 10 W with a continuous pulse. In all cases endometriomas were opened, drained, and irrigated, and the potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser was used to vaporize or remove the entire cyst lining. The ovarian edges were inverted with the laser at the end of the procedure. With one exception, there was no recurrence of endometrioma at 1, 3, and 6 months after the procedure, on the basis of transvaginal ultrasonography or laparoscopy. In one case, 4 months after the initial laparoscopic procedure, exploratory laparotomy was performed for resection of a large, recurrent endometrioma. The use of the potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser allows the laparoscopic surgeon an aggressive approach to ovarian endometriomas that in the past necessitated exploratory laparotomy. 
Localization and needle aspiration of breast lesions: complications in 370 cases. A prospective study of the immediate complications of 370 consecutive breast-imaging procedures (203 wire localizations and 167 radiographically or sonographically guided fine-needle aspirations) is reported. Vasovagal reactions occurred in 27 (7%) of 370 cases, ranging in severity from syncope (four of 370, 1%) to mild light-headedness. These vasovagal reactions were independent of procedure type or use of local anesthesia, but were more common in younger patients. Other complications included prolonged (5 min or longer) bleeding (three of 370, 1%) and extreme pain (two of 370, 1%). One patient was found to have malignant hypertension. We conclude that wire localizations and imaging-guided aspirations are generally well tolerated procedures. However, vasovagal reactions are frequent enough to warrant close observation of patients. Radiologists and breast-imaging personnel should be able to recognize and treat vasovagal reactions. 
Occult pontine glioma in a patient with hemifacial spasm. Hemifacial spasm due to an intracranial mass lesion is rare. We describe a 29-year-old man with hemifacial spasm successfully treated with botulinum A toxin injections for 2 years. The development of acquired diplopia secondary to acquired sixth cranial nerve palsy prompted investigation. Computed tomography done at the time of original diagnosis and on three other occasions (concentrating on the brain stem and cerebellopontine angle) failed to demonstrate an intracranial mass lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large mass lesion in the pons presumed to be a glioma. Patients with hemifacial spasm who have atypical features, especially those with associated neurologic findings, should be screened for tumours. Our case illustrates the superiority of MRI in demonstrating pontine gliomas causing hemifacial spasm. 
Imaging of myocardial infarction in dogs and humans using monoclonal antibodies specific for human myosin heavy chains. The use of three different monoclonal antibodies specific for human ventricular myosin heavy chains in the visualization of the location and extent of necrosis in dogs with experimental acute myocardial infarction and in humans is described. Using a classic immunohistochemical method or ex vivo analysis of heart slices in dogs with acute myocardial infarction subjected to intravenous injection of unlabeled antimyosin antibodies or antimyosin antibodies labeled with indium-111, it was observed that all antibody fragments specifically reached the targeted necrotic zone less than 2 h after antibody injection and remained bound for up to 24 h. In a limited but significant number of cases (5 of the 12 humans and 11 of 43 dogs), it was possible to image the necrotic zone in vivo as early as 2 to 4 h after antibody injection. In other cases, individual blood clearance variations retarded or even prevented in vivo necrosis detection. Higher antimyosin fixation values were obtained in the necrotic zones in dogs with a rapid blood clearance relative to that of the other dogs. It is concluded that antimyosin antibodies always reached necrotic areas within 2 h. If blood clearance was rapid, in vivo imaging of the necrotic area was possible 2 to 6 h after necrosis, even in humans. In some cases, however, uncontrolled individual variations in the timing required for sufficient blood clearance hampered this rapid in vivo detection of myocardial necrosis. 
Primary vesicoureteric reflux: treatment with subureteric injection of Polytef paste. A series of 34 children with 40 primary refluxing ureters were treated endoscopically with a subureteric injection of polytetrafluoroethylene paste (Polytef). The amount injected ranged between 0.1 and 0.8 ml (mean 0.3). A single injection cured the reflux in 26 ureters (65%) and the grade of reflux improved in a further 9 ureters. Seven ureters required a second injection and reflux was cured in 6 of these. The overall cure rate was therefore 80% after the second injection. There was one complication due to self-limiting ureteric obstruction following injection. The procedure is quick, easy to perform and effective. We have some reservations about the long-term efficiency and safety of subureteric Polytef injection in children. 
Serum biomarkers in metastatic renal cell carcinoma. To identify possible clinically valuable markers of metastatic renal cell carcinoma, we measured the serum concentrations of several commercially available biomarkers in 117 patients with this disease. The alpha-fetoprotein level was measured in 75 patients and was elevated in 8 (11%); elevation did not correlate with the presence of liver metastasis. Beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin levels increased in 8 of 83 patients tested (10%). C-terminal parathyroid hormone levels were measured in 79 patients and were elevated in 15 (19%); their serum creatinine level was normal. Thirteen of this group had normal serum calcium levels, whereas 7 patients with hypercalcemia and no clinically evident bone metastasis had normal parathyroid hormone levels. In only 2 of 72 patients, serum lactate dehydrogenase and its isoenzyme 1 were elevated. Only 1 of 85 patients had mildly elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen, in contrast to 3 of 7 patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis who had moderately elevated carcinoembryonic antigen. Elevations in alpha-fetoprotein, human chorionic gonadotropin, and parathyroid hormone correlated with the course of the disease in 13 patients for whom follow-up measurements were available; measurement of these markers, however, is only useful in a small proportion of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. 
Bladder instillations of trisdine compared with catheter introducer for reduction of bacteriuria during intermittent catheterisation of patients with acute spinal cord trauma. An open, prospective, randomised trial was conducted to compare the incidence of significant bacteriuria following 2 methods of intermittent urethral catheterisation in patients with acute spinal cord trauma. Twenty-two patients were catheterised with a Nelaton catheter and 50 ml of Trisdine were instilled into the bladder and left there immediately prior to withdrawal of the catheter. Fifteen patients were catheterised with a Nelaton catheter with a special introducer to improve asepsis (O'Neil catheter). The mean incidence of significant bacteriuria in males and females who received Trisdine bladder instillations was 0.58 and 0.48% per catheterisation respectively; in males and females catheterised with the O'Neil catheter it was 1.16 and 2.93% per catheterisation respectively. The instillation of Trisdine into the bladder after each passage of a catheter resulted in a significantly lower incidence of bacteriuria compared with that which resulted from the use of the O'Neil catheter. The former method is therefore to be preferred for aseptic intermittent urethral catheterisation in patients with acute spinal cord trauma. 
Bio-medicus ventricular assist device for salvage of cardiac surgical patients Over a 5-year period, 41 (1%) of 4,193 patients undergoing cardiac operations underwent intraoperative or early postoperative insertion of a Bio-Medicus ventricular assist device when it became apparent that the patient could not otherwise survive. Fourteen patients were in cardiogenic shock and 7 were in cardiac arrest at the time of initiation of their primary cardiac surgical procedure, and in no instance was the device planned as a bridge to cardiac transplantation. Bleeding, sepsis, and thromboembolism were frequent postoperative complications. Central nervous system deficits were observed in 16 patients during their postoperative course. Eight patients (19.5%) were long-term survivors. Of the preoperative risk factors evaluated only age was significantly associated with survival, with 7 (33%) of the 21 younger (39 to 63 years) patients surviving. Blood product usage and hospital cost were analyzed in an attempt to assess cost/effectiveness of use of this device for attempted salvage of such desperately ill patients. 
Estimation of Doppler gradients at rest and during exercise in patients with recoarctation of the aorta. In patients with suspected recoarctation of the aorta the estimation of the pressure difference between the arms and legs is an important part of the examination. Because this difference is often augmented when the circulation is stressed by exercise, exercise tests are a useful part of the evaluation. Doppler echocardiography was used to estimate this pressure difference in 16 adult patients in whom simultaneous pressure and Doppler recordings were made both at rest and during exercise. There was a close correlation between the invasive peak instantaneous gradient and the Doppler gradient both at rest and during exercise. There was only a moderate correlation between the invasive peak to peak gradient and the Doppler gradient at rest and during exercise. Doppler echocardiography is recommended as an easy and accurate method of estimating the peak instantaneous gradient both at rest and during exercise in patients with suspected recoarctation. 
Stimulation of protein, RNA, and nucleotide synthesis in lymphocytes after abdominal surgery is not affected by postoperative amino acid supply. The effects of abdominal surgery on protein, RNA, and de novo purine nucleotide synthesis in lymphocytes, and modification of these changes by postoperative amino acid supply, were investigated in 24 patients undergoing cholecystectomy (n = 12) or removal of gastric cancer (n = 12). Mono-nuclear cells were isolated from the peripheral venous blood and incubated with radioactive tracers in vitro. Protein and RNA synthesis, as measured using [14C] glycine and [3H]uridine, respectively, increased postoperatively. Nucleotide synthesis determined by the incorporation of radioactivity from [14C] glycine into nucleotides increased simultaneously. The concentration of 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) estimated by the incorporation of [14C]adenine into nucleotides also increased. These changes were greater and of longer duration in patients with cancer operation than in those with cholecystectomy. In neither case were they affected by the amount of amino acid intake, or increases in energy intake. These results suggest that abdominal surgery stimulates protein and ribonucleic acid (RNA) synthesis in lymphocytes. Increased RNA synthesis may be ensured by increased synthesis of nucleotides, and increased PRPP concentrations appear to regulate the rate of nucleotide synthesis. The responses are apparently dependent upon the severity of surgery, but unrelated to the amount of amino acid supplied postoperatively. 
Aminophylline in the outpatient management of decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The objective of this study was to determine if IV aminophylline reduces the risk of relapse after treatment of decompensated COPD in an ED. Forty-six visits in which IV aminophylline was given (T visits) were compared with an equal number of visits in which it was withheld (N visits) with respect to pretreatment serum theophylline level, number of treatments with nebulized bronchodilators and use of parenteral beta-adrenergic drugs, IV corticosteroids and prednisone. The difference in 48-h relapse rates for T and N visits was examined by McNemar's test. No differences were found between T and N visits with respect to vital signs, pretreatment FEV1, arterial blood gas values, hematocrit level or blood leukocyte count. The 48-h relapse rate for T visits (22.2 percent) was significantly higher than for N visits (6.7 percent; p = 0.035). Aminophylline does not appear to be beneficial for outpatients with decompensated COPD and may be harmful. 
Reduction of gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulse frequency is associated with subsequent selective follicle-stimulating hormone secretion in women with polycystic ovarian disease. Polycystic ovarian disease (PCO) is characterized by hyperandrogenism, ovulatory dysfunction, and altered gonadotropin secretion. Mean plasma FSH concentrations are low, while LH is elevated in a majority of patients. LH pulsatile secretion has been shown to occur at rapid follicular phase frequencies (approximately one pulse per h) in PCO, suggesting persistent rapid frequency GnRH secretion in this disorder. Anovulatory women with PCO were given estradiol (E2; Estraderm skin patches) and progesterone (P; vaginal suppositories) to produce midluteal concentrations for 21 days. The aim was to determine if E2 and P would slow LH (GnRH) pulse frequency and if this would result in augmented FSH secretion and follicular development after withdrawal of E2 and P. Plasma LH was measured every 10 min for 8 h before, during (days 10 and 20), and 7 days after withdrawal of E2 and P (day 28). On each of these study days FSH was measured hourly, and E2 and P were measured every 2 h. After sampling, GnRH (25 and 250 ng/kg, iv) was given to assess pituitary responsiveness. Follicular development was monitored by vaginal ultrasound through day 34 of the study. Basal LH frequency was 8.5 +/- 0.5 pulses/8 h (mean +/- SEM). During E2 and P, LH pulse frequency fell to 3.3 +/- 1.0 (10 days) and 2.3 +/- 0.8 (20 days), 39% and 27% of the basal value, respectively, and subsequently increased to 5.6 +/- 0.7 (66% of basal) 7 days after withdrawal of E2 and P. LH pulse amplitude (basal, 7.2 +/- 1.5 IU/L) was not reduced until day 20, but remained suppressed (3.9 +/- 1.1 IU/L) on day 28. As a result, mean LH (basal, 21.0 +/- 3.5 IU/L) fell progressively during E2 and P, to 3.8 +/- 1.2 IU/L on day 20, and remained low (39% of basal) 7 days after steroid withdrawal. Mean plasma FSH (basal, 7.1 +/- 0.9 IU/L) also fell during steroid administration, but in contrast to LH, had risen to 93% of the basal value by 7 days after E2 and P. LH release in response to exogenous GnRH revealed marked initial responses which did not decrease until day 20, but remained suppressed (8% of basal) after withdrawal of E2 and P. FSH responses were also suppressed on day 20, but had increased to 75% of the basal value by day 28. Initiation of follicular development occurred in all patients, and the lead follicle measured 12.3 +/- 0.8 mm 13 days post-E2 and P. Ovulation occurred in one patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Circumspinal decompression for thoracic myelopathy due to combined ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and ligamentum flavum. Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) combined with ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF) in the thoracic spine can result in serious myelopathy, leading to circumferential compression of the spinal cord in advanced stages of the disease. The authors performed circumspinal decompression (circumferential decompression of the spinal cord) on these patients. This operation consists of two steps: posterior and lateral decompression of the spinal cord by removal of the OLF (first step) and anterior removal of the OPLL for anterior decompression (second step), followed by interbody fusion. In the first step, two deep parallel gutters, covering the extent of the OPLL to be removed anteriorly, are drilled down from the rear into the vertebral body along both sides of the dura to easily and safely remove the OPLL anteriorly at the second step. In the second step, the surgical approach varies according to the affected level; costotransversectomy in the upper thoracic spine and standard thoracotomy in the middle or lower thoracic spine. According to the authors, circumspinal decompression is not an easy procedure, but from their results in 10 patients, they identify it as a radical and promising surgical procedure. 
Clinical, laboratory, roentgenographic, and electrocardiographic findings in patients with acute pulmonary embolism and no pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. The history, physical examination, chest radiograph, electrocardiogram and blood gases were evaluated in patients with suspected acute pulmonary embolism (PE) and no history or evidence of pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. The investigation focused upon patients with no previous cardiac or pulmonary disease in order to evaluate the clinical characteristics that were due only to PE. Acute PE was present in 117 patients and PE was excluded in 248 patients. Among the patients with PE, dyspnea or tachypnea (greater than or equal to 20/min) was present in 105 of 117 (90 percent). Dyspnea, hemoptysis, or pleuritic pain was present in 107 of 117 (91 percent). The partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood on room air was less than 80 mm Hg in 65 of 88 (74 percent). The alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient was greater than 20 mm Hg in 76 of 88 (86 percent). The chest radiograph was abnormal in 98 of 117 (84 percent). Atelectasis and/or pulmonary parenchymal abnormalities were most common, 79 of 117 (68 percent). Nonspecific ST segment or T wave change was the most common electrocardiographic abnormality, in 44 of 89 (49 percent). Dyspnea, tachypnea, or signs of deep venous thrombosis was present in 107 of 117 (91 percent). Dyspnea or tachypnea or pleuritic pain was present in 113 of 117 (97 percent). Dyspnea or tachypnea or pleuritic pain was present in 113 of 117 (97 percent). Dyspnea or tachypnea or pleuritic pain or atelectasis or a parenchymal abnormality on the chest radiograph was present in 115 of 117 (98 percent). In conclusion, among the patients with pulmonary embolism that were identified, only a small percentage did not have these important manifestations or combinations of manifestations. Clinical evaluation, though nonspecific, is of considerable value in the selection of patients in whom there is a need for further diagnostic studies. 
Management of osteogenic sarcoma in children and adolescents. The management of osteogenic sarcoma in children has made a fantastic step on the survival rate, but there still remains unexpected late metastatic recurrence even in initially good responders to chemotherapy and lower survival rate in the bad responder group. Therefore, the research on etiology and on the understanding and rating of oncologic power of the tumoral cells as well as other kinds of treatment (vaccine, immunotherapy, and other types of chemotherapy) must be increased. The initial function after replacement is good and is often excellent but increasing deterioration is noticed during each follow-up evaluation. A considerable effort is still to be done for bone and joint replacement. Biocompatible material with mechanical strength and resistance to wear will be used for a long time because of the young age of the patients. There must be better use and understanding of the allograft revascularization, as well as a better biologic connection between the bone host and replacement device. This will probably be used in the future with less cement and more of a modular system. The final prognosis will remain for a long time in the perfect cooperation between the various members of the teams (oncologist, surgeon, imager, pathologist, and research team) who treat the patients. 
The morbidity of long-term seizure monitoring using subdural strip electrodes. The authors report a prospective study of morbidity associated with long-term seizure monitoring using subdural strip electrodes. Three hundred fifty patients were divided into two groups: 175 patients received antibiotics intravenously during the entire period that the electrodes were implanted, and 175 patients received one dose of antibiotics on the morning of surgery. In the group given continuous antibiotic coverage there were two cases of meningitis, both treated without sequelae. In the group receiving one dose of antibiotics, one patient had a brain abscess and three had superficial wound infections. There were no other instances of major morbidity or mortality in either group of patients. The total morbidity rate for both serious and minor complications was 0.85%. 
Predictors of event-free survival after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. BACKGROUND. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty was developed as an alternative to aortic-valve replacement in selected elderly patients with aortic stenosis. The use of this procedure is limited, however, by a high incidence of restenosis. METHODS. Between December 1985 and April 1989, valvuloplasty was performed in 205 patients. We evaluated 40 demographic and hemodynamic variables as univariate predictors of event-free survival by Cox regression analysis and identified independent predictors of event-free survival by stepwise multivariate analysis. RESULTS. Early hemodynamic results indicated a decrease in the peak transaortic-valve pressure gradient from 67 +/- 28 to 33 +/- 15 mm Hg after valvuloplasty and an increase in aortic-valve area from 0.6 +/- 0.2 to 0.9 +/- 0.3 cm2 (P less than 0.001 for both comparisons). The rate of event-free survival (defined as survival without recurrent symptoms, repeated valvuloplasty, or aortic-valve replacement) was 18 percent over the mean (+/- SD) follow-up period of 24 +/- 12 months (range, 1 to 47). Significant predictors of event-free survival included the left ventricular ejection fraction and the left ventricular and aortic systolic pressure before valvuloplasty, and the percent reduction in the aortic-valve pressure gradient; the pulmonary-capillary wedge pressure was inversely associated with event-free survival. Although the predicted event-free survival rate for the entire patient group was 50 percent at one year (95 percent confidence interval, 43 to 57 percent) and 25 percent at two years (95 percent confidence interval, 19 to 31 percent), the probability of event-free survival at one year varied between 23 and 65 percent when patients were stratified according to three independent predictors: the aortic systolic pressure, the pulmonary-capillary wedge pressure, and the percent reduction in the peak aortic-valve gradient. CONCLUSIONS. The most important predictors of event-free survival after balloon aortic valvuloplasty were related to base-line left ventricular performance. The best long-term results after valvuloplasty were observed among patients who would also have been expected to have excellent long-term results after aortic-valve replacement. 
Microangiopathy of the brain, retina, and ear: improvement without immunosuppressive therapy. We describe a pregnant young woman with branch retinal arteriolar occlusions, encephalopathy, and hearing loss in whom we demonstrated a patent foramen ovale. She improved while receiving anticoagulants and no immunosuppressive therapy. The microangiopathic syndrome of retinopathy, encephalopathy, and deafness may be due to a disturbance of coagulation and/or microembolism. 
Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis. Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis is characterized by the spontaneous development of recurrent, sterile papules, pustules, and plaques on the face, trunk, arms, and occasionally the palms and soles. Although the large majority of the reported cases have occurred in Eastern Asians, most patients in the United States have been infants or men seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus. We describe a North American woman with eosinophilic pustular folliculitis who was neither seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus nor of Asiatic descent. 
Delirium and lactic acidosis caused by ethanol and niacin coingestion. A 44-year-old male presented to the emergency department with altered mental status. He was receiving niacin therapy for hypercholesterolemia, and 16 hours earlier had ingested a large quantity of wine. Past medical history was otherwise unremarkable; physical examination revealed paranoid ideation and asterixis. Laboratory evaluation was significant for metabolic acidosis with a calculated anion gap of 39. Liver enzymes were elevated, and lactic acid level was 9.5 mmol/L (normal: 0.5 to 2.2 mmol/L). White blood cell count was 23,100, but all cultures were negative, and all other diagnostic studies, including bilirubin, prothrombin time, and ammonia were normal. The patient recovered rapidly with hydration and administration of thiamine and magnesium. After psychiatric evaluation, a diagnosis of toxic delirium due to niacin and ethanol coingestion was made. This is the first case reporting toxic delirium and lactic acidosis due to niacin and ethanol coingestion. This occurred in the absence of significant hepatic impairment. Possible mechanisms for the observed derangements are discussed. 
Treatment of bacterial skin and soft tissue infections. Bacterial skin infections occur commonly and range in severity from mild to life threatening. The severity of skin infections, and their management and prognosis, can depend on the mechanism of infection, the skin structures involved and the infecting organism or organisms. Primary skin infections result from invasion of microorganisms through tiny breaks in the epidermis or from the spread of microorganisms through the bloodstream. Secondary infections arise from pre-existing trauma, burns or surgical wounds; infections involving the soft tissues underlying the skin are also discussed. These also frequently occur in areas of trauma, operation or ischemia. The cause, bacteriologic factors and management of skin infections were studied, with special attention to pyodermas, infections of the foot in diabetic patients and necrotizing soft tissue infections. Choice of appropriate antibiotic agents depends in large part on the infecting organism and patterns of antibiotic susceptibility. In necrotizing soft tissue infections, survival or limb salvage may depend on prompt surgical intervention. In these instances and in some of advanced primary skin infections in which bacteremia is involved, parenteral antibiotics are required. The available options are discussed and a report on the data with the combination agent ticarcillin disodium and clavulanate potassium is presented. 
Iliac artery stenosis or obstruction after unsuccessful balloon angioplasty: treatment with a self-expandable stent. Obstruction or stenosis of the iliac artery was treated by placement of a self-expandable stent in 91 patients. A total of 100 lesions was treated. All patients had had poor results of balloon angioplasty including residual stenosis, iliac occlusion, and dissection. The stent used in all cases was a self-expandable stainless steel endoprosthesis mounted on a 7- or 9-French catheter and covered by an invaginated tubular rolling membrane. The diameter of the expanded stent varied from 7 to 12 mm. A total of 129 stents was placed. Technical success was 97%. Thromboses occurred immediately after placement in two patients and within the first month in six; these were mainly due to residual obstruction. Eighty-two (93%) of 88 patients with a follow-up longer than 3 months had no recurrent symptoms. Restenosis caused by intimal hyperplasia inside the stent occurred in 10 patients; these required repeated intervention in only four cases. In the remaining six patients, no further complications occurred. Our results show that self-expanding endoprostheses are of value for improving the results of inadequate percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. 
Pulmonary hypertension and polymorphonuclear leukocyte elastase after esophageal cancer operations. To evaluate the role of polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) elastase in pulmonary impairment occurring after operation for esophageal cancer, 10 patients were randomized preoperatively into two equal groups. One group received a placebo infusion and the other, an infusion of the PMN elastase inhibitor ulinastatin. In the placebo group, the mean plasma PMN elastase level increased from 154 +/- 23 micrograms/L preoperatively to 449 +/- 56 micrograms/L at 6 hours postoperatively (p less than 0.01), whereas the mean plasma fibronectin concentration decreased from 490 +/- 70 micrograms/mL preoperatively to 265 +/- 81 micrograms/L on postoperative day 2 (p less than 0.01). The mean pulmonary vascular resistance increased markedly from 151 +/- 24 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 preoperatively to 284 +/- 76 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 at 6 hours postoperatively (p less than 0.01). In the group given ulinastatin, 150,000 units every 12 hours from the start of the operation, the mean PMN elastase value at 6 hours postoperatively was lower (275 +/- 66 micrograms/L; p less than 0.01) and the fibronectin level on postoperative days 1 and 2, higher (p less than 0.05). A lower pulmonary vascular resistance was noted into day 2 (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that PMN elastase may participate in the development of postoperative pulmonary impairment. 
Platelet angiotensin II binding sites in normotensive and hypertensive women. Specific binding of angiotensin II (AII) to platelets was measured in 89 women, 25 nulliparous non-pregnant women and 64 primigravida in the third trimester of pregnancy. There was significantly lower binding in the 25 pregnant women who were normotensive (2.3 fmol/10(9) cells) when compared with the non-pregnant women (9.0 fmol/10(9) cells P less than 0.001). Significantly higher platelet AII binding levels were found in the 39 women who had pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) (5.5 fmol/10(9) cells) when compared with the 25 normotensive pregnant women (P less than 0.001). Of the 39 women with PIH, platelet AII binding was higher in the 23 women who had pre-eclampsia (7.0 fmol/10(9) cells), when compared with the 16 who had non-proteinuric PIH, (4.6 fmol/10(9) cells) although the difference was not statistically significant (P less than 0.04). The pressor response to AII is also diminished in pregnancy, yet less so if pregnancy induced hypertension develops. Platelets may provide a readily accessible tissue with which to study AII responsiveness in pregnancy. 
Gastrointestinal cytology. Since the development of the fiberoptic endoscope, laboratories have received cytologic specimens obtained from all segments of the gastrointestinal tract in increasing numbers to identify infectious agents and neoplasms. Adenocarcinomas generally are easily diagnosed and distinguished from reparative atypia, but their precursor lesions, dysplasia and adenomas, provide greater interpretive challenges. The same is true for such entities as malignant lymphomas. Most mesenchymal tumors remain outside the diagnostic capabilities of most cytologists. 
Modulation of alpha smooth muscle actin and desmin expression in perisinusoidal cells of normal and diseased human livers. It has been suggested that perisinusoidal liver cells (PSC) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of fibrocontractive changes. Using light and electron microscopic immunolocalization techniques, a series of 207 normal and pathologic human liver specimens were evaluated for the expression of alpha smooth muscle (SM) actin and desmin in this and other nonparenchymal cell types. In normal adult liver tissue, PSCs were practically devoid of desmin and exceptionally stained for alpha-SM actin, whereas this actin isoform frequently was encountered in PSCs from the embryonic to the adolescent period. A broad spectrum of pathologic conditions was accompanied by the presence of alpha-SM actin containing PSCs; these were detected preferentially in periportal or perivenular zones according to the predominant location of the underlying hepatocellular damage. The occurrence of this PSC phenotype generally was associated with fibrogenesis and was in some cases detected earlier than overt collagen accumulation. Fibrous bands subdividing liver tissue in cirrhosis and focal nodular hyperplasia, as well as desmoplastic reaction to malignant tumors, contained alpha-SM actin-rich cells admixed with variable proportions of cells coexpressing desmin. In end stages, this population was less numerous than in active fibrotic or cirrhotic processes. Using immunogold electron microscopy, alpha-SM actin was localized in microfilament bundles of typical PSCs. Our results are compatible with the assumption that the appearance of alpha-SM actin and desmin-expressing myofibroblasts results at least in part from a phenotypic modulation of PSCs. 
Breast cancer screening in a biracial community: the Charleston tricounty experience. Breast cancer remains a major cause of death among women in South Carolina. Mammography, breast self-examination, and clinical breast examination are effective methods for early detection and subsequent mortality reduction. The Tricounty Breast Cancer Screening Survey assessed knowledge of these methods and recommendations among 503 women in the Charleston area. While 57% of all respondents reported performing breast self-examination at least once per month, 13% of blacks and 6% of whites reported that they do not know how to perform the procedure. Clinical breast examinations within the past year were reported by 69%, yet 11% of blacks and 4% of whites reported that they had never had the examination. More than one third (40%) of all 503 women reported ever having had a mammogram, and 22% reported having had one within the past year. However, 18% of the blacks and 5% of whites reported never having heard of the procedure. The major barriers to mammography appear to be the belief that women do not need regular mammograms and the lack of recommendations by their physicians. Survey results support the need for educating women about what the procedures are, the importance of using them regularly, and the means to comply with them. 
Skin test reactivity in patients suffering from lung and breast cancer. Mast cells and histamine-mediated reactions may be altered in patients with cancer. In an attempt to characterize the possible skin defects in patients with cancer, we tested 22 patients suffering from lung cancers, 30 from breast cancers, and 30 age-matched normal individuals, using several compounds, in investigating the pathophysiology of the skin response. Histamine hydrochloride (10 and 100 mg/ml) and codeine phosphate (9%) were tested by prick test. Substance P (50 and 500 ng per injection site), phentolamine (20 micrograms per injection site), and carbachol (1 microgram per injection site) were tested by intradermal skin tests. Skin mast cells were also microscopically examined in 10 patients with lung cancer, five with breast cancer, and 10 normal subjects. The mean wheal sizes induced by all the tested substances were similar in patients with cancer and chronic bronchitis and in normal individuals. The flare to histamine, codeine phosphate, and substance P was completely abolished in 7/22 patients with lung cancer, but the lack of flare was not related to the age of the patients, nor to the staging of cancer, nor to metastasis. The mean numbers of alcian blue-stained or toluidine blue-stained positive mast cells were similar in normal subjects and in subjects with cancer. This study does not confirm the skin hyporeactivity of patients with cancer. 
Decreased fibrinolytic activity and increased platelet function in hypertension. Possible influence of calcium antagonism. Twelve patients with mild hypertension were compared, after 14 days of placebo, with an age- and gender-matched group of 12 healthy volunteers for platelet aggregability and fibrinolytic activity. Following this, 10 of the 12 hypertensives were treated with the calcium antagonist isradipine for 12 months. Blood was drawn for determinations of platelet aggregation and fibrinolytic activity after two weeks and 12 months of treatment. Platelet aggregation tended to increase in the hypertensives compared with controls, indicated by a lowering of the adenosine diphosphate (ADP) threshold value for irreversible aggregation. Tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity was significantly decreased in hypertensives compared to controls (P less than .05). During therapy, platelet aggregation decreased and t-PA activity increased (P less than .05). The present data suggest that fibrinolytic activity is decreased and platelet aggregation increased in mild hypertension. Besides the blood pressure-lowering effect, isradipine may protect against thromboembolic diseases by modifying platelet function and fibrinolytic activity. 
How mothers keep their babies warm. Details of room temperature, clothing, and bedding used by night and by day and in winter and in summer were recorded for 649 babies aged 8 to 26 weeks. Room temperature at night was significantly related to outside temperature and duration of heating. Total insulation was significantly related to outside temperature and to minimum room temperature, but there was wide variation in insulation at the same room temperature. High levels of insulation for a given room temperature were found particularly at night and in winter, and were associated with the use of thick or doubled duvets and with swaddling. At least half the babies threw off some or all of their bedding at night, and at least a quarter sweated. Younger mothers and mothers in the lower social groups put more bedclothes over their babies, and the latter also kept their rooms warmer. Many mothers kept their babies warmer during infections. 
Use of hearing aids by patients with closed mastoid cavity. Twenty-five patients who had undergone a closed-cavity tympanomastoidectomy in our Unit and wore a hearing aid in the operated ear were reviewed, and information was recorded on the use of the aid, and the patients' impression about it. The information obtained was analysed and compared with similar data from 39 hearing aid users of similar age with no history of ear surgery. Eighty per cent of the patients with a closed mastoid cavity were satisfied with the aid, and no significant difference was found between the two groups regarding the impression about the aid (chi square 3.06, p = 0.08), or the problems with it, which, in most of the cases, were related to several changes of mould (chi square 2.19, p = 0.13). The various recorded parameters are discussed, and it is concluded that the patients with a closed mastoid cavity can tolerate a hearing aid in the operated ear at least as well as the control subjects with no ear surgery. 
T-cell receptor delta gene recombination in common acute lymphoblastic leukemia: preferential usage of V delta 2 and frequent involvement of the J alpha cluster. A high frequency (greater than 80%) of acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL) exhibit a recombination of the T-cell receptor (TCR) delta chain locus. Interestingly, distinct TCR delta elements are preferentially used in immunologic subtypes. In a recent series of 201 children with common ALL (cALL) we observed a TCR delta rearrangement in 162 patients, 57% of the latter showing a hybridization pattern in Southern blots suggestive of a V delta 2 to D delta 3 recombination. To verify this interpretation and to elucidate in more detail the diversity of this common type of TCR delta recombination we amplified and sequenced the junctional region of nine cALL patients and cell line REH-6 by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A V delta 2 D delta 3 recombination was confirmed in all cases; convincing evidence for the participation of D delta 1 or D delta 2 elements was not obtained. Eight of nine patients and REH-6 showed complete 5' D delta 3 boundaries within V delta 2 D delta 3 segments, a limitation of junctional diversity also detected in 50% of peripheral blood cell clones derived from two healthy probands. Notably, sequence identity at the V delta 2 D delta 3 junction was demonstrated for a cALL and one of the control clones. Another group of 35 of 162 cALL patients was characterized by V delta 2 rearrangements and biallelic deletion of J delta and C delta sequences. Using a J alpha consensus primer, PCR-directed sequence analysis demonstrated V delta 2 D delta 3 J alpha recombinations in all four cases analyzed by this approach. The J alpha segments of these patients differed, but were identical or homologous to published J alpha elements. Our data suggest a recombination pathway of the TCR delta/alpha locus leading to chimeric TCR alpha molecules, containing V delta and, remarkably, also D delta sequences. 
Antiproliferative effects of cytokines on squamous cell carcinoma. A panel of 12 squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) cell lines has been used to determine sensitivity of tumor cells to cytokines, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), and interferon alfa (IFN-alpha) in vitro. Antiproliferative activity of these cytokines on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck monolayers was measured in a colorimetric MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide]-based assay. All 12 cell lines tested were sensitive to IFN-gamma, with the 50% inhibitory dose (ID50) ranging from 0.07 +/- 0.001 to 104 +/- 4.6 U/mL. The TNF-alpha showed antiproliferative activity on three cell lines at relatively high doses (ID50 from 55 +/- 4.1 to 847.10 +/- 10 U/mL), and IFN-alpha was growth inhibitory in only one line (ID50 = 1211 +/- 46.2 U/mL). The combination of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha had a synergistic antiproliferative effect on eight cell lines and an additive effect on two cell lines. In two cell lines, the effect of the combination was equal to that of IFN-gamma alone. A combination of IFN-alpha and TNF-alpha resulted in cell growth inhibition in six of the seven lines tested, and this effect was synergistic. These in vitro studies indicate that combinations of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha or IFN-alpha and TNF-alpha may be more growth inhibitory against squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and at lower doses than each of these cytokines used singly. 
Acid perfusion test and 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring with symptom index. Comparison of tests for esophageal acid sensitivity. The acid perfusion (Bernstein) test and esophageal pH monitoring are the two most popular tests for identifying esophageal acid sensitivity in difficult cases of reflux disease. Therefore, we prospectively compared these test results in 75 consecutive noncardiac chest pain patients who had both an acid perfusion test and chest pain during 24-hr pH testing. A positive acid perfusion test was defined by the replication of the patient's typical chest pain twice by the acid infusion. Esophageal pH testing identified abnormal amounts of acid reflux and correlated symptoms with acid reflux--the "symptom index." Fifteen patients (20%) had a positive acid perfusion test while 45 patients (59%) had a positive symptom index (range 6-100%). Only 9/34 (26%) patients with abnormal reflux had a positive acid perfusion test. Although it had excellent specificity (83-94%), the acid perfusion test had poor sensitivity (32-46%) when compared to the symptom index regardless of the percent positive cutoff level. The best positive predictive value for the acid perfusion test was 87%, but this occurred when the test sensitivity was 32%. Modifying the end point of a positive acid perfusion test to include heartburn improves the sensitivity (52-67%) while markedly compromising specificity and positive predictive value. Thus, esophageal pH monitoring correlating symptoms with acid reflux is superior to the acid perfusion test for identifying an acid sensitive esophagus in patients with noncardiac chest pain. 
A randomized trial of alternating chemotherapy versus best supportive care in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. From April 1985 to September 1988, 128 patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were enrolled in a prospective randomized trial evaluating chemotherapy (arm A) versus best supportive care (arm B). Chemotherapy consisted of cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) day 1, epirubicin 50 mg/m2 IV day 1, and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 IV day 1 (CE'P regimen) alternating every 4 weeks with methotrexate 30 mg/m2 IV day 1, etoposide 200 mg/m2 IV day 1, and lomustine (CCNU) 70 mg/m2 orally day 1 (MEC' regimen) until progression. Of the 123 patients (62 treated and 61 controls) eligible for survival, 115 were fully evaluable for response (58 treated and 57 controls). Response rates were 21% partial response, 53% stable disease, and 26% progressive disease in arm A, and 47% stable disease and 53% progressive disease in arm B. Median survival was 34.3 weeks (range, 4.3 to 218.6+ weeks) in arm A versus 21.1 weeks (range, 4.3 to 188.6 weeks) in arm B; the difference was not significant at P = .153 (Mantel-Cox). Subgroups of patients retrospectively analyzed by age, performance status, stage M0/M1, and weight loss or not showed no significant difference in survival. Poor-risk patients (at least two of the following: poor performance status, stage M1, weight loss) of arm A survived significantly longer than poor-risk patients of arm B (23.6 weeks v 12.4 weeks, Mantel-Cox P = .008); a significant difference in survival was also observed between nonsquamous cell patients of arm A and those of arm B (median survival, 38.6 weeks v 16.7 weeks; Mantel-Cox P = .041). Toxicity on the chemotherapy arm was hematologic (World Health Organization [WHO] grade greater than 3) in 12% of CE'P and in 13% of MEC' courses and gastroenteric (WHO grade greater than 3) in 24% of CE'P courses and in 8% of MEC' courses. Our alternating treatment was not significantly superior to supportive care. It is likely that certain subgroups of the NSCLC category may have an advantage with chemotherapy. 
Effect of tocotrienols on hepatocarcinogenesis induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene in rats. The effects of tocotrienols on hepatocarcinogenesis in rats fed with 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) were followed morphologically and histologically for a period of 20 wk. No differences between treated and control rats in the morphology and histology of their livers was observed. Cell damage was extensive in the livers of AAF-treated rats but less extensive in the AAF-tocotrienols-treated rats when compared with normal and tocotrienols-treated rats. 2-Acetylaminofluorene significantly increases the activities of both plasma and liver microsomal gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) and liver microsomal UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UDP-GT). Tocotrienols administered together with AAF significantly decrease the activities of plasma GGT after 12 and 20 wk (P less than 0.01, P less than 0.002, respectively) and liver microsomal UDP-GT after 20 wk (P less than 0.02) when compared with the controls and with rats treated only with tocotrienols. Liver microsomal GGT also showed a similar pattern to liver microsomal UDP-GT but the decrease was not significant. These results suggest that tocotrienols administered to AAF-treated rats reduce the severity of hepatocarcinogenesis. 
Effect of thrombolysis on the evolution of late potentials within 10 days of infarction. Patients with late potentials in the signal averaged electrocardiogram are more at risk of lethal arrhythmias in the period after acute myocardial infarction. To test the effects of thrombolysis on the incidence and evolution of late potentials, 158 consecutive patients were prospectively studied during the first 10 days after acute myocardial infarction. The study population consisted of two groups: 93 control patients treated conservatively and 65 patients treated with intravenous thrombolysis. Recordings of signal averaged electrocardiogram were obtained within two days and 7-10 days after infarction. The incidence of late potentials in the first two days after infarction was not significantly different in the thrombolytic and control groups (14% v 11.8%). By 7-10 days the incidence of late potentials among patients who underwent thrombolysis remained unchanged (14%); however, it increased significantly in the control group (11.8% to 22.5%). Thus thrombolysis seems to reduce the evolution of late potentials within 10 days of infarction. Because the risk of fatal arrhythmias is higher in patients with late potentials this study may partly explain the reduced mortality after thrombolysis. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the choroid plexus in Sjogren's disease. We report an unusual case of inflammatory pseudotumor of the choroid plexus of the right lateral ventricle, manifesting as an intraventricular mass and causing unilateral hydrocephalus in a 48-year-old man who suffered from Sjogren's disease and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The lesion obliterated the normal choroidal architecture by a mixed chronic inflammatory process that was associated with reactive connective tissue changes. Immunohistochemical studies showed no light-chain restriction in the cells, and residual islands of transthyretin-positive epithelial cells were identified, implicating the choroid plexus origin of the mass. 
Colic medication and apparent life-threatening events. Eight infants with histories of apnea and cyanosis were referred to the Southwest SIDS Research Institute for evaluation of apparent life threatening events (ALTE). All of the infants had been treated for colic with a 1:1 concentration of dimenhydrinate (Dramamine) and phenobarbital, hyoscyamine sulfate, atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide (Donnatal). The medication was pre-mixed by local pharmacists. A comprehensive work-up failed to reveal a cause for the ALTE in any infant. The Dramamine/Donnatal mixture was withdrawn and polygraphic evaluation was conducted. Cardiorespiratory abnormalities were identified in all eight infants and significant gastroesophageal reflux (GER) was documented in four. The possibility that colic medication contributes to cardiorespiratory instability and GER in vulnerable infants requires serious consideration and further evaluation. 
A direct correlation of the resolution of pseudophakic cystoid macular edema with acetazolamide therapy. We report the case of a patient with pseudophakic cystoid macular edema whose visual acuity improved promptly with oral administration of 500 mg of acetazolamide extended-release capsules BID for two weeks. However, vision worsened again within two weeks of discontinuation of the treatment. On resumption of acetazolamide therapy for three weeks, and its slow withdrawal during the following three weeks, the macular edema eventually resolved, and vision returned to normal. Our observation provides a direct correlation of the resolution of pseudophakic cystoid macular edema with acetazolamide therapy and shows the importance of tapering the doses of this regimen. 
Prevalence of migraine in low-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma in Japanese. We studied the prevalence of migraine in low-tension glaucoma (LTG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Seventy seven Japanese patients with LTG, 73 with POAG, and 75 normal subjects were randomly selected and tested with a headache questionnaire. The prevalence of headache with or without typical migrainous features (unilateral headache or ocular pain, nausea, vomiting, and visual disturbance before headache) was 51% in LTG, 42% in POAG, and 44% in normal patients. The prevalence of headache with two migrainous features or more (probable migraine) was 17% in LTG, 11% in POAG, and 12% in normal subjects. The prevalence of headache with three migrainous features (classical migraine) was 5% in LTG, 3% in POAG, and 3% in normal subjects. There was no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of any types of migraine between the three groups of patients (p greater than 0.05). These results suggest there is no significant relationship between migraine and LTG or POAG in Japanese patients. 
Cervical esophageal motility: evaluation with US in progressive systemic sclerosis. High-resolution ultrasound (US) showed that initial peristalsis propelled ingested soda smoothly and rapidly in 20 volunteers without symptoms who met both manometric and radionuclide esophageal scintigraphic (RES) criteria for normal motility. Twenty-eight patients with progressive systemic sclerosis were classified according to results of RES as follows: group 1, normal esophageal motility (three patients [11%]); group 2, hypomotility of the esophagus, excluding the cervical esophagus (18 patients [64%]); and group 3, hypomotility of the cervical esophagus (seven patients [25%]). In the seven patients of group 3, US demonstrated that an incomplete peristalsis sequence or a feeble peristalsis propelled the soda in a slow and/or to-and-fro motion with low velocities. In the other 21 patients (75%), the soda passed through the esophagus smoothly and rapidly. Retention of soda in the cervical esophagus was not limited to patients with hypomotility of the cervical esophagus. It is concluded that US is useful in evaluation of cervical esophageal motility. 
Pretranslational regulation of albumin synthesis in tumor-bearing mice. The role of anorexia and undernutrition. Hepatic albumin synthesis, serum albumin turnover, and hepatic albumin messenger RNA (mRNA) content were evaluated in mice bearing a transplantable low differentiated tumor (MCG 101). Results obtained on tumor-bearing mice were compared with results obtained from non-tumor-bearing animals that were either freely fed, food restricted so that their body composition was similar to tumor-bearing animals (pair-weighed), fed a protein-free diet for 5 days, or fasted for 48 hours. Tumor-bearing animals became hypoalbuminemic (33 +/- 5 vs. 44 +/- 3 g/L in freely fed mice), which could be explained by both depressed albumin synthesis (1.95% +/- 0.20% vs. 2.67% +/- 0.27%/h in freely fed mice) and increased albumin degradation. Pair-weighed and protein-calorie malnourished controls had reductions in albumin synthesis (1.81% +/- 0.18% and 1.67% +/- 0.17%/h, respectively) similar to tumor-bearing animals, and the starved controls had the lowest synthetic rates (1.07% +/- 0.10%/h). Albumin degradation was increased only in tumor-bearing animals. Hepatic albumin mRNA in undernourished animals was less (tumor bearing, 32% +/- 5%; pair weighed, 47% +/- 4%; 48 hours fasted, 18% +/- 2%; and protein-calorie malnourished, 26% +/- 3%) than 50% of the mRNA content in the livers of freely fed control mice. Messenger RNA-directed synthesis of albumin in vitro was also depressed to a variable degree in tumor-bearing and malnourished non-tumor-bearing controls. The hypoalbuminemia in tumor-bearing animals could not be prevented by daily injections of a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor (indomethacin, 1 microgram/g body wt), but the hepatic acute phase protein serum amyloid P decreased from 157 +/- 12 to 103 +/- 9 micrograms/mL in indomethacin-treated tumor-bearing mice (P less than 0.01). It is concluded that increased albumin degradation seen in tumor-bearing animals cannot be explained by associated malnutrition, whereas tumor-associated malnutrition can explain to a large extent the depressed albumin synthesis. Decreased albumin synthesis in tumor-bearing animals correlated in part with a decreased quantity of liver albumin mRNA. The results of the current study are consistent with either a reduced transcription of the albumin gene or a change in albumin mRNA processing and stability communicated by anorexia and malnutrition. 
Cogan's syndrome complicated by lacunar brain infarcts. Cogan's syndrome, nonsyphilitic interstitial keratitis with vestibuloauditory dysfunction, is an uncommon disease of young adults, probably a manifestation of vasculitis. A 32 year old woman with this syndrome developed a thalamic syndrome with amnesia and dysphasia due to lacunar infarcts. 
Impact of autologous bone marrow infusion on hematopoietic recovery after high-dose cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin. Because of potential tumor contamination and inadequacy of current purging technique of bone marrow in patients with solid tumors, we investigated an alternative approach to high-dose therapy without autologous bone marrow (ABM) infusion. Three levels of nonmyeloablative doses of cyclophosphamide 4.5 to 5.25 g/m2, etoposide 750 to 1,200 mg/m2, and cisplatin 120 to 165 mg/m2 (CVP) were administered to patients with metastatic solid tumors. Patients were randomized to ABM (n = 46) or no-ABM (NABM) (n = 46) infusion after CVP to study the impact of ABM on hematopoietic recovery, morbidity, and mortality. All patients had ABM harvested, underwent conventional chemotherapy, and then received CVP. Seventy-three patients received two courses of similar doses. The following were the median days to absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of 0.1 x 10(9)/L: for the ABM arm, 19, 21, and 19 and for the NABM arm, 23, 20, and 21 at levels 1, 2, and 3, respectively, during course 1 (P = .01, .80, and .01, respectively). During course 2, ANCs to 0.1 x 10(9)/L and 0.5 x 10(9)/L were attained significantly faster at levels 1 and 3 in the ABM arm. ANC to 1.0 x 10(9)/L was comparable in both arms. Incidence of infection and duration of fever were similar in both arms. Although mortality and the incidence of delayed hematopoietic recovery were more frequent in the NABM arm, this was not statistically significant. Platelet recovery was consistently prolonged in course 2 in both arms, with demonstrable benefit of ABM in course 2 when dose levels were collectively considered. We conclude that (1) ABM enhanced recovery of ANC to 0.1 x 10(9)/L; (2) ABM did not decrease the incidence of infections and the duration of fever; and (3) CVP can be safely given without ABM to carefully selected patients. 
Prevalences of endoscopic and histological findings in subjects with and without dyspepsia OBJECTIVE--To examine the association between dyspeptic symptoms and endoscopic and histological diagnoses. DESIGN--Cross sectional study of people with dyspepsia and controls matched for age and sex identified by questionnaire survey of all inhabitants aged 20 to 69. Endoscopy and histological examination was performed with the examiner blind to whether or not the patient had dyspepsia. SETTING--Population based survey in Sorreisa, Norway. SUBJECTS--All people with dyspepsia and age and sex matched people without dyspepsia were offered endoscopy. A total of 309 people with dyspepsia and 310 without dyspepsia underwent endoscopy, giving 273 matched pairs. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Prevalences of endoscopic and histological diagnoses made according to internationally accepted standards. RESULTS--In all, 1802 of 2027 (88.9%) people returned the questionnaire. Of the 163 subjects who refused endoscopy, 114 were controls. Of five endoscopic and four histological diagnoses only peptic ulcer disease, endoscopic duodenitis, and active chronic gastritis were diagnosed significantly more often in people with dyspepsia. In all, 30% to 50% of the diagnoses of mucosal inflammation and peptic ulcer disease were made among subjects without dyspepsia, and only 10% of both those with and those without dyspepsia had normal endoscopic findings. CONCLUSIONS--The diagnostic findings, with possible exceptions of peptic ulcer disease and endoscopic duodenitis, showed no association of clinical value with dyspeptic symptoms. The small number of "normal" endoscopic findings in both those with and those without dyspepsia challenge well accepted endoscopic and histological diagnostic criteria with relation to the upper gastrointestinal tract. 
Transcription, storage and release of atrial natriuretic factor in the failing human heart. 1. In this study the relationship between the synthesis of atrial natriuretic factor at the level of atrial natriuretic factor mRNA and the atrial storage and circulating plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor were investigated in 15 patients with heart failure. The patients underwent right and left heart catheterization before cardiac surgery for valve replacement or coronary artery bypass grafting. 2. Plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor were correlated to atrial levels of atrial natriuretic factor mRNA. Atrial levels of atrial natriuretic factor mRNA and plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor exhibited a close correlation to both pulmonary artery pressure and left atrial pressure. No relationship, however, could be found between the right atrial content of atrial natriuretic factor and both the expression of atrial natriuretic factor mRNA in the atria and the plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor. 3. From these data it may be concluded that increased plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor in the pressure- and/or volume-overloaded heart are associated with an elevated level of atrial natriuretic factor mRNA. We suggest that not only plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor but also the expression of atrial natriuretic factor in the atrial are related to left ventricular filling pressures in the failing human heart. 
Intracerebral Hodgkin's disease in a human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive patient. Intracerebral involvement of Hodgkin's disease (HD) is rarely described, with only 42 cases in the literature. Since the outbreak of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemic, there has been an increasing number of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected (HIV+) persons who have diffuse non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and, more recently, atypical aggressive HD. The authors report the case of a patient with a history of intravenous drug abuse (IVDA) and Stage IVB HD who, after a drug-induced clinical remission, had intracerebral mixed-cellularity HD. This appears to be the first report of intracerebral HD in a person who is HIV+. 
Lack of induction of suppressor T cells by intestinal epithelial cells from patients with inflammatory bowel disease. The mechanisms underlying the chronic unrelenting inflammatory response seen in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are poorly understood. We have recently proposed a novel role for the normal intestinal enterocyte, that of antigen presenting cell. However, in contrast to conventional antigen presenting cells, normal enterocytes appear to selectively activate CD8+ antigen nonspecific suppressor T cells. To determine whether failure of this process may be occurring in inflammatory bowel disease, freshly isolated enterocytes from small and large bowel from normal patients, patients with Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and inflammatory (diverticulitis, ischemic colitis, and gold induced colitis) controls were co-cultured with allogeneic T cells in a modified mixed lymphocyte reaction. In contrast to normal enterocytes, 42/42 Crohn's and 35/38 ulcerative colitis-derived epithelial cells stimulated CD4+ T cells, whereas 65/66 and 9/9 normal and inflammatory control enterocytes, respectively, stimulated CD8+ T cells (as previously described), suggesting that the results seen were not just a reflection of underlying inflammation. Furthermore, IBD enterocytes from both histologically involved and uninvolved tissue were similar in their ability to selectively activate CD4+ T cells, speaking for a more global defect in epithelial cells in IBD. Finally, activated T cells from IBD epithelial cell-stimulated mixed lymphocyte cultures displayed potent T helper activity in an antigen nonspecific fashion. Taken together, these data suggest that there may be an intrinsic defect in epithelial cells from patients with IBD, resulting in the inability to normally stimulate suppressor T cells in an antigen overloaded environment. 
Leukoaraiosis and ventricular enlargement in patients with ischemic stroke. We studied the relationship between ventricular size and nonspecific periventricular lucency on computed tomograms (leukoaraiosis) in 192 patients with ischemic stroke. Leukoaraiosis did not occur in 21 patients less than 50 years of age; ventricular size could not be measured in an additional 29. Leukoaraiosis was graded from 0 to 4 on a semiquantitative scale; bicaudate, frontal horn, and posterior horn indices were used as measures of ventricular size. Patients with leukoaraiosis were older (difference between means 7 years, t = 5.3, df = 140, p less than 0.0001) and had larger bicaudate indices (difference between means 0.023, t = 3.54, df = 140, p = 0.0007) than patients without leukoaraiosis. Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that the effects of age and leukoaraiosis were independent. No effect of lesion type (cortical or lacunar infarct, or both) on bicaudate index could be demonstrated. Larger values for the bicaudate index were associated with a predominantly anterior location of leukoaraiosis. The frontal horn and occipital horn indices increased with age, but we could not find an effect of leukoaraiosis on these indices. 
Canadian Atrial Fibrillation Anticoagulation (CAFA) Study. The Canadian Atrial Fibrillation Anticoagulation Study was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to assess the potential of warfarin to reduce systemic thromboembolism and its inherent risk of hemorrhage. As a result of the publication of two other "positive" studies of similar design and objective, this study was stopped early before completion of its planned recruitment of 630 patients. There were 187 patients randomized to warfarin and 191 to placebo. Permanent discontinuation of study medication occurred in 26% of warfarin-treated and 23% of placebo-treated patients. The target range of the international normalized ratio was 2 to 3. For the warfarin-treated patients, the international normalized ratio was in the target range 43.7% of the study days, above it 16.6% of the study days and below it 39.6% of the study days. Fatal or major bleeding occurred at annual rates of 2.5% in warfarin-treated and 0.5% in placebo-treated patients. Minor bleeding occurred in 16% of patients receiving warfarin and 9% receiving placebo. The primary outcome event cluster was nonlacunar stroke, noncentral nervous systemic embolism and fatal or intracranial hemorrhage. Events were included in the primary analysis of efficacy if they occurred within 28 days of permanent discontinuation of the study medication. The annual rates of the primary outcome event cluster were 3.5% in warfarin-treated and 5.2% in placebo-treated patients, with a relative risk reduction of 37% (95% confidence limits, -63.5%, 75.5%, p = 0.17). 
The importance of adequate anticoagulation to prevent early thrombosis after stenting of stenosed venous bypass grafts. Stent implantation in native coronary arteries may be complicated by acute thrombosis, despite the use of stringent anticoagulation. Thrombotic occlusion of stented venous grafts may occur less frequently, possibly because of the larger caliber of these grafts. We report our experience with 46 stents (Wallstent, Medinvent, Lausanne, Switzerland) implanted in 35 lesions of 24 consecutive patients (mean age 64 years, range 43 to 75). Two overlapping stents were implanted in seven patients, and three overlapping stents were positioned in two. After implantation, activated partial thromboplastin time was maintained at two to three times the control level by intravenous administration of heparin (160 to 550 mg daily) until thrombotest values were reduced 5% to 10% by acenocoumarol. Impending thrombotic occlusion was recognized in two suboptimally anticoagulated patients: patient A after implantation of four stents and patient B after anticoagulation therapy was discontinued because of acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Coronary artery bypass grafting was performed successfully in both patients. A third patient had a myocardial infarction on day 7 after stent implantation, in spite of adequate anticoagulation and optimal medical drug therapy. It is concluded that stringent anticoagulation therapy appears mandatory to maintain graft patency after stent implantation. 
Blood pressure during pregnancy in Canadian Inuit: community differences related to diet. OBJECTIVE: To assess a possible relation between the incidence of hypertension during pregnancy and the consumption of fatty acids found in fish and sea mammals. DESIGN: Retrospective survey of pregnancy-induced hypertension; prospective diet survey. SETTING: Inuit women from seven communities in the Keewatin region of the Northwest Territories. PATIENTS: All women from Arviat (formerly Eskimo Point), Baker Lake, Chesterfield Inlet, Coral Harbour, Repulse Bay, Sanikiluaq and Whale Cove who gave birth between Sept. 1, 1984, and Aug. 31, 1987. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: All blood pressure measurements recorded during the pregnancy, incidence of pregnancy-induced hypertension in the seven communities, harvest of country food (food obtained from the land or sea rather than bought in a store) for six of the communities, self-reported consumption of fish, sea mammals and terrestrial mammals by a subgroup of the subjects and levels of phospholipid fatty acids in cord serum samples from a subgroup of the infants. MAIN RESULTS: Significantly lower mean diastolic blood pressure values during the last 6 hours of pregnancy were noted for the women from the three communities with a higher consumption of fish and sea mammals (78.2 [95% confidence limits (CL) 76.6 and 79.9] mm Hg) than for those from the four communities with a lower consumption of such food (81.5 [95% CL 80.1 and 82.9] mm Hg) (p less than 0.005). The relation between community diet type and blood pressure was independent of other factors. Correspondingly, the women from communities with a lower consumption of marine food were 2.6 times more likely to be hypertensive during the pregnancy than those from communities with a higher consumption of marine food (p less than 0.007). Parity (p less than 0.05) and prepregnancy weight (p less than 0.005) were also significantly associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension; however, the relation between hypertension and community diet type remained significant in logistic regression analysis (odds ratio 2.56, p = 0.03). The differences between the community groups were substantiated by the results of the diet survey, the levels of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) in the cord serum phospholipids and the harvest data. CONCLUSIONS: Increased consumption of fish may be beneficial for women at risk for hypertension during pregnancy. A prospective randomized trial of fish or EPA supplementation during pregnancy is warranted. 
Prevention of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa colonisation in cystic fibrosis by early treatment. To assess whether chronic pulmonary colonisation with Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis is preventable, 26 patients who had never received anti-pseudomonas chemotherapy were randomly allocated to groups receiving either no anti-pseudomonas chemotherapy or oral ciprofloxacin and aerosol inhalations of colistin twice daily for 3 weeks, whenever Ps aeruginosa was isolated from routine sputum cultures. During the 27 months of the trial, infection with Ps aeruginosa became chronic in significantly fewer treated than untreated subjects (2 [14%] vs 7 [58%]; p less than 0.05) and there were significantly fewer Ps aeruginosa isolates in routine sputum cultures in the treated group (49/214 [23%] vs 64/158 [41%]; p = 0.0006). Thus, chronic colonisation with Ps aeruginosa can be prevented in cystic fibrosis by early institution of anti-pseudomonas chemotherapy. 
Primary biliary cirrhosis: relation between hepatic function and pulmonary function in patients who never smoked. We studied the relationship between selected variables of hepatic and pulmonary function in 47 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, who were participating in a prospective study to assess sequential pulmonary function at yearly intervals. An additional 20 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, who were liver transplant candidates awaiting transplantation, were studied. None of the 67 patients ever smoked cigarettes. Severity of primary biliary cirrhosis was characterized by histological stage and the Mayo risk score derived from a Cox regression model that used the following variables: serum bilirubin and serum albumin levels, age, prothrombin time and clinical severity of edema. Pulmonary function assessment included key variables describing expiratory airflow (forced expiratory volume in 1 sec divided by forced vital capacity) and efficiency of gas exchange (steady-state diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide). We found a significant relationship between histological stage of primary biliary cirrhosis and steady-state diffusing capacity (p = 0.02) and between the Mayo risk score for disease severity and steady-state diffusing capacity (p = 0.03). Progressive deterioration of steady-state diffusing capacity was associated with increasing severity of primary biliary cirrhosis. No relationship existed between pulmonary function and the presence of sicca complex or Sjogren's syndrome or the clinical manifestations of portal hypertension (e.g., esophageal varices, ascites and splenomegaly). No significant relationship existed between expiratory airflow and severity of primary biliary cirrhosis. We conclude that in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who have never smoked, a statistically significant relationship exists between the severity of the liver disease and the efficiency of gas exchange measured by steady-state diffusing capacity. 
Access to health care. One neurologist's perspective. Millions of residents of the United States have difficulty obtaining health care. Barriers impeding access to care include poverty, physical unavailability of health care services, absence of health insurance, and physicians unwilling to care for uninsured patients. Many patients do not successfully use health services because of educational, cultural, and language barriers. A major access barrier is lack of health insurance. Over 30 million people in the United States have none, the so-called medically indigent. Among them are over 3 million people with neurologic disorders. They have additional barriers to overcome because often they cannot work, cannot drive, have difficulty using public transportation, and have major cognitive and communication impairments. Medical and governmental bodies are debating solutions to the health care access crisis. Physicians should actively participate in this national debate. Neurologists should address the special needs of patients with neurological disorders. 
Effects of enflurane on inducibility of ventricular tachycardia. The effects of enflurane on cardiac electrophysiologic parameters and on inducibility of ventricular tachycardia (VT) by programmed stimulation were studied in 12 patients (11 men, 1 woman, mean age +/- standard deviation 55 +/- 8 years) with drug refractory sustained monomorphic VT who underwent transcatheter ablation with high-energy direct-current shocks. One catheter ablation procedure was performed in 10 patients, whereas 2 ablation sessions were necessary in 2 patients. Programmed ventricular stimulation was performed on 2 separate days (mean interval 19). There were 2 baseline studies, 1 several days before ("baseline study I") and the second at the beginning of the ablation procedure ("baseline study II") while the patient was awake and nonsedated. The third programmed stimulation study was done 15 to 30 minutes after administration of anesthesia with enflurane, oxygen and nitrous oxide ("enflurane study"). Rate of sinus rhythm, QRS duration, PQ interval and ventricular effective refractory period were unaltered, whereas QTc interval increased significantly after initiation of anesthesia. Before and after induction of general anesthesia, clinical VT was inducible in all patients. However, in 1 patient, induction of VT was only possible by pacing in the left ventricle after enflurane administration. Based on these data, it is concluded that general anesthesia with enflurane, oxygen and nitrous oxide has no marked influence on inducibility of clinical VTs. Therefore, this type of anesthesia may be useful for nonpharmacologic, ablative procedures requiring general anesthesia. 
Endometrial adenocarcinoma in Norway. A study of a total population. Fifteen hundred sixty-six patients with adenocarcinoma of the endometrioid type (AC) were studied. These accounted for 78.9% of all 1985 patients with confirmed endometrial carcinoma diagnosed in Norway in the period 1970 through 1978. Four hundred and sixty-nine patients (29.9%) had well-differentiated tumors, 677 (43.2%) were moderately and 420 (26.8%) poorly differentiated. Eighty-one percent of the patients had surgicopathologic Stage I disease, 11% Stage II, 6% Stage III, and 2% Stage IV. Mean age at diagnosis was 62.1 years (range, 36 to 91). The crude 5-year and 10-year survival rates for all patients were 74.1% and 62.2%, respectively. Five-year crude survival was 86.8% for Grade 1 and 58.3% for Grade 3 tumors. The 5-year crude survival for patients with intramucosal tumors was 88.7% as opposed to 46.9% for patients with tumors infiltrating to the serosa. Sixty-six percent of the patients with vessel invasion survived for 5 years in contrast to 88.6% for patients without vessel invasion. Histologic grade, myometrial infiltration, vessel invasion, and lymphocyte reaction surrounding the tumor were strongly interrelated. Multivariate analysis showed that the age of the patient at the time of diagnosis was the most important single prognostic factor. Disregarding age, survival in operated patients was more dependent on the depth of myometrial invasion than on grade and stage of disease. 
Pain threshold levels and coping strategies among patients who have chest pain and normal coronary arteries. Patients with noncardiac chest pain (NCCP) tend to show lower pain threshold levels for esophageal balloon distention than do patients with other painful gastrointestinal disorders and healthy controls. The NCCP patients also report greater usage of negative pain-coping strategies, less ability to perform specific behaviors to decrease pain, and higher levels of clinical pain than do other patient and healthy control groups. Behavioral treatments produce significant decreases in pain and disruption of daily activities. Further effort is needed, however, to develop treatments for NCCP that are based on knowledge of the behavioral manifestations of this disorder and the afferent mechanisms involved in perception of visceral pain. 
Periosteal suspension of the lower eyelid and cheek following subciliary exposure of facial fractures. Following craniofacial procedures that involve stripping of the periosteum and soft tissue over the zygomatic maxillary complex, descent of soft tissue with a decrease in anterior projection over the malar area and increase in fullness in the nasolabial fold have been seen to be a problem by these authors. Simple repositioning of the soft tissues to their normal anatomic position may be used to alleviate this problem. 
Noncemented porous-coated anatomic total hip arthroplasty. In 1984, as an alternate to the acrylic fixation of the components of total hip arthroplasty, the use of an uncemented porous-coated anatomic (PCA) hip system with a beaded porous coating to achieve biologic fixation was initiated. Since then, 44 patients with cementless acetabular components and 35 patients with cementless femoral components have been followed for a minimum of 24 months and an average of 37 months. Harris hip scores averaged 90.5 at most recent follow-up intervals. No reoperations were necessary for failures of fixation or change in position of the acetabular component. Ominous roentgenographic signs such as progressive bead shedding, progressive radiolucencies, or progressive component migration have not occurred. Two femoral component revisions have been necessary: one for intractable pain and one for pain and roentgenographic loosening. Although thigh pain has been prevalent (20%), all patients have been accommodated and have retained stable hip scores. Progressive radiolucencies and progressive implant subsidence have been rare occurrences. The authors continue to use the cementless acetabular component in all cases of total hip arthroplasty in which initial stability can be obtained. It is their preference to cement the femoral component in patients over 65 or when initial stability cannot be achieved. 
Immunologic effects of interferon. Interferons can be defined as a family of induced proteins sharing the capacity to exert pleiotropic effects on cell functions and to render cells resistant to virus infection. They are activating genes coding for a number of enzymes, most of which have not yet been characterized, and also by enhancing the synthesis of cell surface components. This enables interferons to modulate the immune response at different levels. This article will focus on the effects of interferon on antigen presentation, regulation of the immune response, activation of macrophage functions, and on its role in the pathogenesis of some diseases. 
Clinical implications of seizures in neurosarcoidosis. Seizures are a recognized manifestation of neurosarcoidosis, but their clinical relevance is not well established. We reviewed the characteristics, clinical correlations, and prognosis of seizures in 79 patients with neurosarcoidosis. Thirteen (15%) of the 79 patients had seizures, and in eight patients (10%) a seizure was the first manifestation of neurosarcoidosis. These seizures were generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 12 patients (92%) and partial seizures in four patients (31%). The patients with neurosarcoidosis with seizures were more likely to have a progressive or relapsing clinical course and intracranial mass lesions (four patients [31%]), encephalopathy or vasculopathy (eight patients [62%]), or hydrocephalus (five patients [38%]). These central nervous system disorders, rather than the seizures per se, were responsible for most of the serious morbidity and the two deaths (15%) among our patients with seizures. Indeed seizure control was good in 11 (85%) of 13 patients treated with combinations of steroids and antiepileptic medications. Seizures are an important sign in neurosarcoidosis because they are associated with more severe and progressive or relapsing forms of central nervous system sarcoidosis and may be an early manifestation of such disorders. 
Small hepatocellular carcinoma treated with percutaneous ethanol injection: MR imaging findings. Fifty-seven magnetic resonance (MR) imaging examinations were obtained at 0.5 T in 19 patients before and after percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) for 23 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) lesions less than 3.5 cm in diameter. Seventeen patients also underwent MR imaging 6 months after completion of therapy. In 11 patients, computed tomography was performed before and after treatment. After PEI, fine-needle biopsy specimens were obtained in all cases. Before treatment, HCC lesions had low signal intensity on T1-weighted images in 13 cases, had the same signal intensity as normal liver parenchyma in six, and had high signal intensity in four; all 23 tumors had high signal intensity on T2-weighted images. After treatment and at 6-month follow-up, all 21 lesions that contained no malignant cells at fine-needle biopsy had high signal intensity on T1-weighted images and had low signal intensity on T2-weighted images. The remaining two HCC lesions in which tumor necrosis was not achieved with PEI displayed a different MR pattern, since the residual neoplastic tissue showed no change in signal intensity on either T1- or T2-weighted images. The authors conclude that MR imaging may be useful for evaluating the effectiveness of PEI in achieving tumor regression. 
Nicotine induced gastric injury. A quantitative macroscopic and microscopic analysis of the protective effects of sucralfate and feeding. Nicotine, while an important component of cigarettes, does not cause gross gastric mucosal damage, although its microscopic effect remains unknown. We have evaluated the histology and the microvascular permeability of (a) the effect of nicotine alone or in combination with ethanol on the gastric mucosa of rats and (b) the effect of feeding and sucralfate on the mucosa of rats treated with nicotine and ethanol. Mucosal injury was assessed histologically by the depth of injury and microvascular permeability by the leakage of fluorescein isothiocyanate-labelled albumin. Our results show that nicotine induced microscopic mucosal damage and accentuated the damage induced by alcohol. The damaging effects on mucosa of nicotine and ethanol, alone or in combination, were reduced by pretreatment with sucralfate. Similarly, feeding reduced the degree of mucosal injury. Nicotine and ethanol increased leakage of albumin into the interstitium and the leakage was reduced after sucralfate pretreatment. This study substantiates the adverse effect of smoking on mucosal damage. Vascular factors are probably involved in the pathogenesis. 
Characterization of human renal fibroblasts in health and disease: II. In vitro growth, differentiation, and collagen synthesis of fibroblasts from kidneys with interstitial fibrosis. Fibroblast cultures from normal human kidneys (NKF cells) and kidneys affected with interstitial fibrosis (FKIF cells) were analyzed for in vitro growth, differentiation dynamics, and collagen synthesis. FKIF cells are characterized by hyperproliferative growth, resulting in a prolonged mitotic lifespan, by an altered differentiation pattern, and by the expression of the FKIF cell-specific protein "fibrosin" (molecular weight 53 kd, isoelectric point [pi] 6.1). Furthermore, FKIF cells synthesize four to five times more total collagen per cell as compared with NKF cells, and the relative amounts of the collagen types produced (type I, III, and V) are significantly different from controls. Thus, the in vitro cell system of FKIF cells may help to elucidate the underlying mechanisms triggering the induction and progression of renal interstitial fibrosis in vivo. 
Deformity correction and long-term survival in an infant with iniencephaly. Case report. The authors describe the case of a male infant who was diagnosed prenatally as having iniencephaly. Since birth, the child has grown, thrived, and undergone two successful operations to correct his cervical deformity. This case demonstrates that the iniencephaly defect is not uniformly fatal and that neurosurgical intervention may offer significant improvement in the cervical deformity. 
Circadian variation in the frequency of onset of chest pain in acute myocardial infarction. The time of onset of chest pain was studied prospectively in 1154 consecutive patients admitted to a coronary care unit with myocardial infarction during a five year period. Statistical analysis confirmed a previous finding in a retrospective study of a bimodal frequency distribution with peaks in the time of onset of chest pain between 2330 and 0030 hours and between 0630 and 0830 hours. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, regional vascular hemodynamics, and the development and prevention of experimental genetic hypertension. During the development of hypertension in young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) vascular resistance is increased, particularly in the renal circulation, and, to a lesser extent, in the splanchnic bed. Treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in young SHR reverses the renovascular abnormalities more effectively than simple vasodilators, suggesting that the resistance changes may depend on angiotensin II. Perindopril treatment during the development of hypertension causes a reduction in blood pressure as a result of a fall in total peripheral resistance, which persists long after treatment is stopped. These long-term effects can be prevented by replacing angiotensin during perindopril treatment. Not all organs share the long-term resistance changes following perindopril treatment, which are most marked in the renal, splanchnic, and cerebral circulations. The heterogeneous patterns of regional vascular resistance during the development and after prevention of hypertension with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in SHR suggest that local factors, for example, angiotensin II related to the tissue renin-angiotensin system or local adrenergic activity, may be important in the genesis of high blood pressure in this genetic model. 
Is premedication with oral glycopyrrolate as effective as oral atropine in attenuating cardiovascular depression in infants receiving halothane for induction of anesthesia? The authors conducted a double-blind study to compare premedication with oral glycopyrrolate and oral atropine in prevention of bradycardia and hypotension during induction of anesthesia with halothane-N2O in 90 outpatient infants and children aged 1-18 mo who were randomized into three groups to receive either an oral placebo, oral atropine (0.02 mg/kg), or oral glycopyrrolate (0.05 mg/kg) approximately 1 h before induction of anesthesia. Heart rate and mean arterial pressure were measured before drug administration, just before induction of anesthesia, and every minute until surgical stimulation occurred. Glycopyrrolate, at the dose used, was significantly less effective than atropine in attenuating bradycardia during induction; neither glycopyrrolate nor atropine altered the incidence or degree of hypotension. Antisialagogic activity and side effects were comparable, except for significantly more flushing with atropine. 
Case report: epidural and bilateral retroorbital hematomas complicating sickle cell anemia. Early in the course of a painful crisis, a 19-year-old man with known sickle cell anemia (SCA) developed a clinical picture that resembled either early cavernous sinus thrombosis or retroorbital and bifrontal microinfarcts. A brain computer tomography scan demonstrated bilateral retroorbital hemorrhages along with a left frontal epidural hematoma. In the absence of trauma, thrombocytopenia, or any other detectable hemostatic defect, this type of hemorrhagic manifestation in the setting of SCA has not, to our knowledge, been previously reported in the literature. 
Classic and vigorous achalasia: a comparison of manometric, radiographic, and clinical findings. Compared with classic achalasia, vigorous achalasia has been defined as achalasia with relatively high esophageal contraction amplitudes, often with minimal esophageal dilation and prominent tertiary contractions on radiographs, and with the presence of chest pain. However, no study using current manometric techniques has compared manometric, radiographic, and clinical findings in vigorous and classic achalasia or questioned the usefulness of making this distinction. Fifty-four cases involving patients with achalasia whose radiographic and manometric studies were performed within 6 months of each other were available for review. Patients with vigorous achalasia (n = 17), defined by amplitude greater than or equal to 37 mm Hg, and patients with classic achalasia (n = 37), defined as amplitude less than 37 mm Hg, had substantial overlap in radiographic parameters of esophageal dilation, tortuosity, and tertiary contractions. Manometric properties of repetitive waves and lower esophageal sphincter pressure and clinical aspects of chest pain, dysphagia, heartburn, and satisfactory responses to pneumatic dilation were similar in both forms of achalasia. A separate analysis of patients with mean contraction amplitude greater than 60 mm Hg revealed similar findings. It is concluded that use of amplitude as a criterion for classifying achalasia is arbitrary and of dubious value. 
Prevalence of obesity in American Indians and Alaska Natives. Obesity is an important risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and non-insulin-dependent diabetes, which are chronic diseases that afflict American Indians and Alaska Natives today. Because American Indians are not represented in most national health and nutrition surveys, there is a paucity of data on actual prevalence of obesity in American Indians. We estimated prevalence of overweight and obesity for American Indian adults, school-age children, and preschool children from existing data. The prevalence of obesity in adults was estimated from self-reported weights and heights obtained from a special survey of American Indians performed as part of the 1987 National Medical Expenditure Survey. Prevalence of obesity in American Indians was 13.7% for men and 16.5% for women, which was higher than the US rates of 9.1% and 8.2%, respectively. Obesity rates in American Indian adolescents and preschool children were higher than the respective rates for US all-races combined. 
Dipyridamole echocardiography test. A new tool for detecting jeopardized myocardium after thrombolytic therapy. BACKGROUND. We wished to assess whether dipyridamole echocardiography test (DET) can detect jeopardized myocardium after thrombolytic therapy. METHODS AND RESULTS. Seventy-six consecutive patients with a first acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were treated with 2 million IU urokinase i.v. within 4 hours of the onset of AMI and underwent high-dose (as much as 0.84 mg/kg over 10 minutes) DET 8-10 days after AMI. The results were correlated to the anatomy of the infarct-related vessel (IRV). In patients with positive DET, we evaluated the wall motion score index (WMSI; a semiquantitative integrated estimation of extent and severity of the stress-induced dyssynergy). WMSI was derived by summation of individual segment scores divided by the number of interpreted segments. In a 13-segment model, each segment was assigned a score ranging from 1 (normal) to 4 (dyskinetic). Fifty-three patients had positive results on DET. Of these, 42 had dipyridamole-induced new wall motion abnormalities (WMAs) confined to the infarct zone or adjacent segments. In these patients, mean WMSI increased from 1.46 +/- 0.26 (at resting conditions) to 1.73 +/- 0.35 (at peak dipyridamole) (p less than 0.01), whereas no significant change was detected in negative patients (1.6 +/- 0.34 versus 1.57 +/- 0.34, p = NS). Coronary angiography showed a patent IRV (TIMI grade 2 or 3) in 53 patients and no or minimal reperfusion (TIMI grade 0 or 1) in 23 patients. A patent IRV with critical residual stenosis was found in 35 of 42 patients with dipyridamole-induced WMAs in the infarct zone and in 18 of 34 patients without WMAs (p less than 0.05). Among the 23 patients with occluded IRVs, nine had collateral flow to the distal vessel; six of these had a positive DET. Thus, the sensitivity and specificity for identifying a critically stenotic but patent IRV or the presence of a collateral-dependent zone were 66% and 93%, respectively. In a subset of nine patients with a positive DET in the infarct zone or adjacent segments, DET and a control coronary angiography were repeated 1-3 months after an angiographically successful (residual stenosis, 50% or less) coronary angioplasty in the IRV. The repeat DET was negative in eight patients (all with patent IRV at control angiography) and again positive in one patient, who showed restenosis at angiography. The WMSI, at resting conditions was similar before and after angioplasty, whereas it differed significantly at peak dipyridamole (1.7 +/- 0.2 versus 1.4 +/- 0.2, p less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. DET can identify the anatomy of the IRV, and dipyridamole-induced WMAs within the infarct zone detect regions with jeopardized myocardium that may benefit from intervention. 
Symptoms associated with tamoxifen treatment in postmenopausal women. Adjuvant breast cancer therapy with tamoxifen is associated with greater disease-free survival and possibly overall survival. Long-term treatment, possibly of indefinite duration, is being evaluated. Compliance with long-term therapy will depend largely on the nature and severity of tamoxifen's side effects. We evaluated the symptoms associated with tamoxifen therapy in 140 postmenopausal women with axillary node negative breast cancer in remission (mean years since menopause, 9.3) enrolled in a placebo-controlled, randomized toxicity study. Tamoxifen recipients reported moderated or severe vasomotor symptoms up to 17%, and gynecologic symptoms up to 4% more frequently than placebo subjects. Persistent vasomotor, gynecologic, or other major side effects were reported by 48% of tamoxifen recipients, and by 21% of placebo subjects. These carefully collected data suggest significant perceived symptom 'cost' of tamoxifen therapy in postmenopausal women, of a magnitude likely to compromise long-term compliance. 
Prognostic factors in Japanese patients with colorectal cancer: the significance of large bowel obstruction--univariate and multivariate analyses. In order to define prognostic factors in colorectal carcinoma, univariate and multivariate analyses were carried out on data from 113 Japanese patients treated in a typical general hospital in Japan. In the univariate analysis, a poor prognosis was seen in those with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, in tumors that perforated the visceral peritoneum or that invaded directly other organs or structures (T4), in metastasis to the nodes along the main vascular pedicle (N3), in lymphatic permeation, in blood vessel invasion, in peritoneal dissemination, in Dukes C stage, and in those with lesions presenting with large bowel obstruction. Of these, only lymph node metastasis and peritoneal dissemination had an independent prognostic significance when a multivariate Cox analysis was performed. The significant risk factors related to an obstructing tumor were determined by multivariate logistic regression analysis. The significant variables were patient's age, nodal involvement and peritoneal dissemination. Since lymph node metastasis and peritoneal dissemination proved significant in both multivariate analyses, we propose that the presence of large bowel obstruction is not an independent prognostic factor in patients with colorectal carcinoma. In poor-risk patients who have an obstructing tumor, a staged operation should be attempted for definitive curative surgery. 
Loiasis in endemic and nonendemic populations: immunologically mediated differences in clinical presentation. To define the clinical spectrum of loiasis more precisely and to begin to assess the immunologic basis for the difference in clinical manifestations between visitors to endemic areas and natives of these areas, 51 West African patients with loiasis were evaluated and compared with 42 infected expatriates. Microfilaremia was present in 90% and Calabar swellings in only 16% of the endemic patients. Conversely, only 10% of the expatriates were microfilaremic while 95% complained of Calabar swellings. The endemic population showed significantly decreased levels of peripheral blood eosinophils, parasite-specific IgG, and lymphocyte proliferation to parasite antigens compared with the nonendemic population. These findings support the hypothesis that differences in the modulation of the immune response to parasite antigen are responsible for the observed differences in clinical presentation between expatriate and endemic populations with loiasis. 
Prevalence of gastroesophageal reflux in elderly patients in a primary care setting. Despite the aging of our population, there remains a paucity of information about gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in the elderly. To assess the prevalence and characteristics of GER within this patient population, questionnaires evaluating symptoms associated with GER were administered to 313 consecutive patients 62 yr old or older from a primary care setting. Fourteen percent of these patients reported having at least weekly heartburn. Ambulatory 24-h esophageal pH monitoring was accomplished in 54 of the 313 patients surveyed. Twenty percent (11/54) of this subgroup exhibited increased acid contact time (pH less than 4 for more than 6% of the monitoring period). Twenty-two percent (12/54) complained of heartburn, yet only six individuals (11%) exhibited both symptomatic and objective indications of acid reflux. Surprisingly, 31% (17/54) of the patients studied exhibited significant alkalinity within the distal esophagus (pH greater than 8 for greater than 1.5% of the monitoring period). Whereas 29% of these patients (5/17) reported heartburn, 40% of those reporting heartburn (2/5) had acid GER as well as excessive alkalinity. In contrast to patients with acid GER--none of whom reported pulmonary symptoms--24% (4/17) of these patients with esophageal alkalinity reported wheezing, nocturnal cough, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Of the four patients with significant distal esophageal exposure to both acid and alkali, two reported heartburn and a third reported dysphagia. In addition to the somewhat higher prevalence of acid reflux than anticipated, a surprisingly high prevalence of esophageal alkalinity was observed. 
Availability and use of hepatitis B vaccine in laboratory and nursing schools in the United States. Hepatitis B is a well-documented occupational hazard for health care workers, including both laboratory and nursing personnel. Since the development of effective hepatitis B vaccines, the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP) has recommended that health care workers receive the vaccine. In this study, 78 laboratory training programs and 83 nursing training programs were surveyed regarding availability and usage of hepatitis B vaccine. The hepatitis B vaccine was made available to students in 81 percent of the laboratory programs and 23 percent of the nursing programs. In those programs making the vaccine available, only 59 percent of the laboratory programs and 5 percent of the nursing programs reported a high (greater than 75 percent) use by students. Concern about cost and payment for the vaccine was the most common reason (80 percent) noted by laboratory schools that did not have hepatitis B vaccination programs for students. Of the nursing schools that did not have vaccine programs, 58 percent had not yet considered a program. At laboratory schools with vaccination programs, who paid for the vaccine (hospital or school versus student) was among the most important determinants for vaccine usage by students. These findings point out that some laboratory schools and many nursing schools have not applied the ACIP recommendations to their own programs. Educational efforts and creative payment plans for the vaccine are needed to increase the availability and use of hepatitis B vaccine among laboratory and nursing students. 
Analysis of retroviral sequences in the spinal form of multiple sclerosis. The polymerase chain reaction was used, in a blind study, to look for retroviral sequences in DNA extracted from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 11 patients with the spinal form of multiple sclerosis (MS). Control subjects consisted of 7 patients with other neurological diseases and 5 healthy blood donors. Three sets of oligonucleotides were used. They could detect all known human oncoretroviruses, lentiviruses, or spumaretroviruses. The primers recognized conserved sequences in the long terminal repeats of the proviral DNA. Control experiments showed that the primers crossreacted within the human immunodeficiency virus or human T-cell lymphotropic virus group and that they provided the expected level of sensitivity. Therefore the assay could have detected not only known human retroviruses but also new related members. In spite of this, no retroviral sequences were detected in either the MS or the control specimen. 
A controlled clinical trial of E5 murine monoclonal IgM antibody to endotoxin in the treatment of gram-negative sepsis. The XOMA Sepsis Study Group OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of adjunctive monoclonal antibody antiendotoxin immunotherapy in patients with gram-negative sepsis. DESIGN: Double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. SETTING: Thirty-three university-affiliated centers, including Veterans Affairs, community, and municipal hospitals. PATIENTS: Hospitalized adults with signs of gram-negative infection and a systemic septic response. INTERVENTION: Patients were assigned to receive either 2 mg/kg of a murine monoclonal antibody directed against gram-negative endotoxin (E5) or placebo. A second infusion was administered 24 hours later. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality over the 30-day study period, resolution of organ failures, and safety. RESULTS: Four hundred eighty-six patients were enrolled. Three hundred sixteen had confirmed gram-negative sepsis (54% bacteremic, 46% nonbacteremic). The survival difference was not statistically significant for all patients. Among patients with gram-negative sepsis who were not in shock at study entry (n = 137), E5 treatment resulted in significantly greater survival (relative risk, 2.3; P = .01). Resolution of individual organ failures was more frequent among these patients, occurring in 19 (54%) of 35 patients in the E5 group vs eight (30%) of 27 in the placebo group (P = .05). Four reversible allergic reactions occurred among 247 patients (1.6%) receiving E5. No other toxicity was identified. CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with E5 antiendotoxin antibody appears safe. It reduces mortality and enhances the resolution of organ failure among patients with gram-negative sepsis who are not in shock when treated. 
Prevention of insulitis and diabetes onset by treatment with complete Freund's adjuvant in NOD mice. In studies of immune cell defects in autoimmune diabetes mellitus, we observed that complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) prevented the onset of diabetes when injected into 8- to 10-wk-old prediabetic nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice. The prevalence of the onset of diabetes in the CFA-injected versus uninjected NOD mice was 2 of 81 (2.5%) vs. 231 of 379 (61%) among females and 2 of 44 (4.5%) vs. 83 of 336 (25%) among males, respectively. The incidence of histologically identifiable insulitis was significantly reduced in CFA-treated prediabetic female NOD mice (18%) compared with the incidence in female age-matched controls (70%). Splenocytes or Mac-(1+)-enriched splenocytes from CFA-treated NOD mice, when cotransferred with splenocytes from diabetic mice, reduced the incidence of diabetes provoked by diabetic splenocytes in vivo. In the spleen, CFA injection induced sustained increases in cell proliferation and an associated major increase in the numbers of an immature cell type that expressed the Mac-1 surface antigen. In CFA-treated NOD mice, lymphocytes derived from the spleen failed to respond in vitro to stimulation by the mitogen concanavalin A or by anti-CD3. When cocultured, Mac-1+ cells, enriched from the splenocytes of CFA-treated mice, suppressed concanavalin A- or anti-CD3-induced proliferation of T lymphocytes derived from either the spleen or thymus of untreated NOD mice. Therefore, treatment with CFA prevents the development of diabetes, and concomitantly, insulitis while stimulating the generation of splenic suppressor cells that are capable of suppressing diabetogenic T-lymphocyte function in vivo and in vitro. 
Intermittent injection vs patient-controlled analgesia for sickle cell crisis pain. Comparison in patients in the emergency department. BACKGROUND.--The purpose of this study is a prospective assessment of morphine sulfate administration by intermittent intravenous (IV) injections (Int-IV) vs patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) in patients in the emergency department (ED) with sickle cell crisis pain. METHODS.--Patients were at bed rest and received intravenous hydration. Linear analog scale for pain intensity and verbal pain scale, level of alertness, and vital signs were assessed prior to therapy, every 60 minutes thereafter, and at the time of discharge from the ED. Patients were randomized to Int-IV or PCA. During phase 1, patients in the Int-IV group received morphine sulfate 4 mg IV every 30 to 60 minutes as necessary for a linear analog scale for pain intensity greater than 50 mm. The patients in the PCA group received morphine sulfate 2 mg bolus then 1.0 mg with a 6-minute lockout. During phase 2, patients in the Int-IV group received morphine sulfate 8 mg IV every 30 to 60 minutes as necessary for a linear analog scale for pain intensity greater than 50 mm. The patients in the PCA group received morphine sulfate 5 mg bolus then 2.7 mg with a 10-minute lockout. Data were analyzed by unpaired t test, general linear modeling, Mann-Whitney U test, and chi 2 test. RESULTS.--During phase 1, 10 patients (28.3 +/- 7.3 years) received Int-IV and 10 patients (33.9 +/- 12.5 years) received PCA. Treatment groups did not differ significantly regarding duration of pain, amount of morphine administered, linear analog scale for pain intensity, verbal pain scale, level of alertness, or vital signs except for a significantly lower final respiratory rate with Int-IV. In phase 2, 12 patients (28.4 +/- 5.6 years) received Int-IV and 13 patients (26.8 +/- 8.1 years) received PCA. The PCA groups had a significantly shorter elapsed time between onset of pain and treatment (7.3 +/- 6.5 hours) when compared with the Int-IV group (18 +/- 16.9 hours). Treatment groups did not differ significantly with respect to total amount of morphine administered, linear analog scale for pain intensity, verbal pain scale, vital signs, or level of alertness. The PCA group had a significant reduction in length of stay in the ED during phase 2 when compared with phase 1. The ED discharge rate and the incidence of side effects did not differ significantly between groups. CONCLUSION.--At both the low- and high-dose regimens, PCA is equally safe and effective and may be used in place of Int-IV administration of morphine in the ED treatment of sickle cell crisis pain. 
Alcohol consumption of patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias other than atrial fibrillation. We studied the recent alcohol consumption and other possible precipitating factors in 99 consecutive patients (53 men and 46 women) all under 65 years of age with sustained re-entry and automatic supraventricular tachyarrhythmias and compared them with those of two groups of controls. One control group was derived from the Emergency Room patients and matched for age and sex; the other group (44 men, 22 women, mean age 48.7 years) was randomly selected from the general out-of-hospital population. There were 50 patients with supraventricular tachycardia, 30 with atrial flutter, and 19 with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia. Coronary heart disease (14% of patients), hypertension (10%), and dilated cardiomyopathy (6%) were the most prevalent cardiovascular diseases associated with the arrhythmias. The self-reported alcohol consumption of patients with arrhythmias during the week preceding the arrhythmia did not differ significantly from that of hospital or population controls, although significantly more patients than controls had liver enzyme levels above normal; neither were there any significant differences between the groups regarding prevalence for alcoholism as judged by the CAGE questionnaire. The results were essentially similar when patients with supraventricular tachycardia and those with intra-atrial tachyarrhythmias (flutter and paroxysmal tachycardia) were separately compared with the controls. We conclude that alcohol consumption, although a risk factor for atrial fibrillation, is not associated with the induction of other supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients of working age. 
Mineral spirits inhalation associated with hemolysis, pulmonary edema, and ventricular fibrillation. A previously healthy 42-year-old woman developed severe dyspnea, chest discomfort, and malaise several hours after prolonged exposure to concentrated vapors from mineral spirits. On the way to the hospital, she sustained a cardiopulmonary arrest; on arrival several minutes later, she was found to be in ventricular fibrillation and was resuscitated. Her hospital course included slowly resolving cardiac abnormalities, amnesia, noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, abrupt hemolytic anemia, sustained rhabdomyolysis, and other metabolic abnormalities. It is highly probable that this syndrome represented acute and near-lethal toxicity caused by the inhalational exposure to the petroleum distillate known as mineral spirits. It is important that physicians be aware of this syndrome in order to recognize it on presentation and to warn patients of the risk of such toxic exposure. 
Refractory chronic bacterial prostatitis: a re-evaluation of ciprofloxacin treatment after a median followup of 30 months. A total of 16 men suffering from refractory chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli was treated with ciprofloxacin for 4 weeks. After a median followup of 30 months (range 21 to 36 months) 10 of the 16 patients were considered cured as judged by bacteriological results and clinical symptoms. In 2 men a second ciprofloxacin regimen obviously showed success also. In 2 patients ciprofloxacin therapy failed and in 2 therapy had to be discontinued due to side effects of the central nervous system. 
Prevention and treatment of pregnancy-associated hypertension: what have we learned in the last 10 years? High blood pressure (BP) complicates approximately 10% of all pregnancies. Hypertension in pregnancy falls into four categories: (1) preeclampsia-eclampsia, (2) chronic hypertension of whatever cause, (3) preeclampsia-eclampsia superimposed to chronic hypertension or renal disease, and (4) transient or late hypertension (gestational hypertension). Preeclampsia, the association of hypertension, proteinuria, and edema, accounts for more than 50% of all the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and is a major cause of fetal and maternal morbidity and mortality. Unfortunately, distinguishing between preeclampsia and other causes of hypertension on clinical grounds can be difficult because of the lack of specific tests for differential diagnosis. Increased vascular resistance has been claimed as the primary cause of preeclampsia; however, a variable hemodynamic profile with relatively high cardiac outputs, normal filling pressures, and inappropriately high systemic vascular resistances is now reported by most investigators. Imbalance between vasodilator and vasoconstrictor eicosanoids may account for platelet activation and increased responsiveness to pressor peptides. Altered prostacyclin (PGI2) to thromboxane A2 (TxA2) ratio in maternal uteroplacental vascular bed may favor local platelet activation and vasoconstriction contributing to placental insufficiency and fetal distress. Alternatively, recent evidence seems to suggest that fetal umbilical placental circulation may be the site of the primary vascular injury. Whether low-dose aspirin prevents preeclampsia because it inhibits the excessive maternal TxA2 or whether the partial inhibition of fetal TxA2 is also of therapeutic value remains to be established. Treatment of severe hypertension in pregnancy is probably important to prevent cardiac failure or cerebrovascular accidents in the mother. The need for pharmacological therapy of mild to moderate hypertension is still debated, since no formal studies are available to clarify whether pharmacological treatment in such instances effectively reduces maternal or fetal risk. For the treatment of preeclampsia, hydralazine and nifedipine may be used when delivery is not applicable. Labetalol and diazoxide are effective for hypertensive emergencies. Life-threatening hypertension that does not respond to more conventional therapy is an indication for the use of sodium nitroprusside. For chronic hypertension, alpha-methyldopa remains the treatment of choice; if ineffective, hydralazine or beta-blockers are suitable. Effectiveness and safety of other molecules remain elusive. 
Desmoplastic small cell tumors of the peritoneum coexpressing mesenchymal and epithelial markers. Desmoplastic small cell tumors arising diffusely within the abdomen and lacking an apparent organ of origin are rare. Most previously reported cases occurred in children, but young adult patients also have been described. Light microscopic examination shows the tumors to be composed of nests of small cells surrounded by an abundant desmoplastic stroma. Immunohistochemical findings reveal multidirectional differentiation with coexpression of cytokeratin, milk fat globule, neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, desmin, and vimentin. Electron microscopic examination demonstrates paranuclear condensations of intermediate filaments. The authors describe two patients who died of their disease, despite aggressive chemotherapy and surgical intervention. 
Ethnic differences in mortality from ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease in England and Wales. OBJECTIVE--To examine mortality from ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease in England and Wales by country of birth of the deceased. DESIGN--Standardised mortality ratios were computed by country of birth groups for ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease for 1979-83 and 1970-2 by using the five year age-sex specific rates for England and Wales for 1979-83 as standard. SETTING--England and Wales 1970-2 and 1979-83. RESULTS--In 1979-83 mortality from ischaemic heart disease was highest in men and women born in the Indian subcontinent (standardised mortality ratio 136 and 146 respectively). Young Indian men suffered the greatest excess (313 at ages 20-29). Other groups with raised mortality included Irish, Scottish, and Polish born immigrants. Those born in the Caribbean, the old Commonwealth, west Europe, and the United States had low death rates. In England and Wales mortality from ischaemic heart disease declined by 5% in men and 1% in women between 1970-2 and 1979-83, with greatest percentage declines in immigrants born in the United States, South Africa, the old Commonwealth, the Caribbean, and France. immigrant groups with raised mortality in the earlier period showed little improvement, and mortality from ischaemic heart disease increased among Indians (6% in men and 13% in women). In 1979-83 mortality from cerebrovascular disease was highest in Caribbeans (standardised mortality ratios 176 in men and 210 in women), followed by Africans, Indians, and Irish. Rates were low in west Europeans. Mortality from stroke declined by 28% overall in this period, a rate of decline shared by most groups. Men from the Indian subcontinent showed a decline of only 3%. CONCLUSION--In the 1980s mortality from ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease differed significantly between ethnic groups in England and Wales. In general, ethnic groups that experienced lower mortality from ischaemic heart disease in the 1970s showed the greatest improvement over the following decade. 
Botulinum toxin treatment of tremors. We report the results of an open trial of botulinum toxin (Botox) in the treatment of 51 patients with disabling tremors, classified as dystonic (14), essential (12), combination of dystonic and essential (22), parkinsonian (1), peripherally induced (1), and midbrain (1). The average age of the patients was 55.8 years, and duration of symptoms was 13.9 years. During a total of 160 treatment visits, an average of 242 +/- 75 units of Botox was injected per visit in cervical muscles of 42 patients with head tremor and 95 +/- 38 in forearm muscles of 10 patients with hand tremor; one patient was injected in both. The average peak effect for all patients was rated as 3.0 (0 to 4 scale). Thirty-five (67%) patients improved (peak effect greater than or equal to 1). The average latency from injection to response was 6.8 days, and the average duration of maximum improvement was 10.5 weeks. Local complications, lasting an average of 20.6 days, were noted in 17 (40%) patients injected for head tremor, consisting chiefly of dysphagia in 12 (29%), transient neck weakness in four (10%), and local pain in two (5%). Six (60%) patients with hand tremor had transient focal weakness. EMG recordings showed decreased amplitude of EMG bursts after Botox treatment. The results of this pilot study indicate that Botox injections can be used to control tremor in patients in whom other forms of therapy have failed. 
Chickenpox pneumonia, its complications and management. A report of three cases, including the use of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We report three cases of chickenpox pneumonia in adults, all of whom required intermittent positive pressure ventilation. One patient developed a variety of complications, and another, a pregnant woman, required extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 
A prospective evaluation of the effect of tumor cell DNA content on recurrence in colorectal cancer. Tumor cell DNA (ploidy) content was measured prospectively in samples from 320 patients resected for colorectal cancer with a minimum follow-up time of 2 years. All patients were followed and those with recurrence were investigated carefully. There was no correlation between tumors with an abnormal cellular DNA content (aneuploid or tetraploid) and patient age, sex, tumor site, pathologic stage, or histologic grade. In 236 patients who underwent potentially curative operations, 75 (32%) had local and/or distant recurrence. The recurrence rate was significantly higher (test statistic, 4.3; P = 0.04) for those patients with aneuploid tumors (52 of 142, 37%) compared with those with diploid tumors (23 of 94, 24%). The subgroups of patients where ploidy exerted an effect were in patients with Stage B tumors or mobile tumors and in patients over 65 years of age. Further analysis showed that there was a twofold increase in local recurrence and a threefold increase in distant recurrence in patients with aneuploid tumors, but no excess of patients who had both local and distant recurrence. Measurement of DNA ploidy can identify a group of patients undergoing curative surgery for colorectal cancer at high risk for recurrence. In combination with clinicopathologic factors, DNA ploidy may be useful in analyzing the results of trials and in planning adjuvant therapy. 
Emergency treatment of headache. Headache is a frequent presenting complaint in the emergency department. Once a diagnosis is established, and significant organic disease can be ruled out, relief of pain must be addressed. Referral for follow-up care and narcotic habituation is a recurrent problem for the emergency physician. This article discusses the differential diagnosis of headache, evaluation of the emergency room patient, and treatment of the patient with headache. 
Gene deletions force nonsecretory alpha-chain disease plasma cells to produce membrane-form alpha-chain only. We studied a case of nonsecretory alpha-chain disease. The proliferating plasma cells contained a short transcript coding for a truncated membrane-form alpha 1-chain. The productive alpha-gene bore several noncontiguous deletions affecting the VHDJH and CH1 regions. Two deletions were accompanied with peculiar insertions containing duplications. The first insertion contained an acceptor splice site and was present in part in the mature transcript, thus coding for an abnormal aminoterminal peptide. Another deletion located 3' to CH3 eliminated the polyadenylation site of secreted-form alpha-mRNA. As a result, only membrane-form alpha mRNA was present in the tumoral plasma cells, thus explaining the nonsecretory phenotype of the disease. Comparison of cDNA and genomic sequences showed that the previously undescribed human alpha membrane region is encoded by a single exon, beginning with two alternate acceptor splice sites, and comprises either 65 or 71 amino acids. 
Anterior sternal retraction for reoperative median sternotomy. The incidence of reoperative median sternotomy for repeat cardiac surgery is increasing. Reoperative median sternotomy is associated with a higher morbidity and mortality than first-time cardiac surgery. A portion of this morbidity and mortality may be due to direct injury to the heart and great vessels in the process of reopening the sternum. We report a new technique utilizing anterior sternal retraction that allows division of adhesions between the undersurface of the sternum and the heart and great vessels under direct vision. This technique enables the surgeon to minimize the risk of serious injury to these underlying structures during reoperative cardiac surgery. 
Physical overdistension converts ventricular cardiomyocytes to acquire endocrine property and regulate ventricular atrial natriuretic peptide production. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is present in adult atria but at very low concentrations in normal adult mammalian ventricles. In the atria, the production of ANP is regulated by physical distension of the atrial wall. The same phenomenon was investigated in the ventricles of rats and men. Cardiac tissues from human ventricular aneurysm (n = 5), spontaneously hypertensive rats (n = 30), and rats that had overloaded left ventricles induced by surgery (n = 84) were studied with the methods of light microscopic immunocytochemistry, electron microscopic immunogold staining, and RNA-RNA tissue in situ hybridization. It was found that the levels of ANP gene expression, ANP immunoreactivity, and ANP-containing specific granules in the overburdened ventricles were elevated and their degrees of fluctuation were directly proportional to the force of physical distension applied to the ventricular cardiomyocytes. In rats, ANP mRNA and ANP immunoreactivity returned to the control level seven days after the ventricular overload was surgically released. The changes of ANP and its mRNA in the ventricles were related more closely to the changes of intraventricular pressure than to cardiocytic hypertrophy. In addition, ANP immunoreactivity was demonstrated in Purkinje cells and periarteriolar cardiomyocytes in the ventricles of normotensive rats. In conclusion, physical overstretch of the ventricle wall is likely to be the triggering factor affecting ventricular cardiomyocytes to acquire endocrine property, and also to regulate the production of ventricular ANP, thereby contributing to the control of the blood volume and the blood pressure. 
Functional outcomes of children with sickle-cell disease affected by stroke. The nature and degree of functional recovery after stroke in children with sickle-cell disease (SCD) has not been extensively investigated. The purpose of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the functional status of 14 SCD children who had had strokes and to compare them with age-matched and gender-matched SCD children who had not had strokes. By doing so, we would be able to quantify the eventual physical and cognitive functional outcomes of survivors of stroke secondary to SCD and assess the impact of stroke on these patients. These children (five boys and nine girls) with SCD and stroke(s) were 11.6 +/- 4.3 years of age (range five to 18 years). They experienced one to three strokes at a mean age of 6.1 +/- 5.2 years (range one to 17 years). A series of tests were administered to these subjects to evaluate physical and psychosocial functions. These tests were performed at least one year after the latest stroke. This study showed that all of the SCD-stroke children were physically independent. Only a few had impairments of hand functions and mild difficulties in self-care activities. However, most of these children demonstrated intellectual deficits ranging from borderline to moderate mental retardation, reduced language functions ranging from low normal to retarded range, and problems in adjustment. Intelligence quotient of the children with SCD-stroke(s) was significantly lower than those of age-matched and gender-matched nonstroke SCD children, suggesting that stroke caused an adverse effect on the cognitive functioning of these children. The results indicate that in the SCD-stroke children psychosocial deficits outweighed physical disabilities. 
Acute appendicitis. A 5-year review. A startling 31 per cent rate of perforated appendicitis in 1984 prompted a 5-year review at the Guthrie Medical Center. An increase over previous rates of 13 per cent and 0 per cent in 1964 and 1944 was confirmed in this study. Perforation accompanied 44 of 240 cases of appendicitis (18.3%); diagnostic accuracy in 295 cases undergoing operation was 81.4 per cent. Groups at risk for perforation were patients in the first decade of life (34.3% with perforations) and those over 50 years of age (48% perforated). Perforation rates were generally inversely related to accuracy. Accuracy was poorest in women in the second to fourth decade or those in the mid-portion of the menstrual cycle. When the appendix was not perforated, complications occurred in 8.7 per cent of patients while 29.5 per cent with a perforation had a complication. The mean hospital stay was prolonged by 2.5 days if the appendix was perforated. An increased awareness of the risk by both the public and physicians is essential to reduce the number of perforations. 
Intrarenal pressure following pyeloplasty or percutaneous surgery. In a study of 37 patients it was shown that recording the intrapelvic pressure is a safe and reliable means of judging the best time to remove a nephrostomy tube. No post-operative complications were encountered and the procedure has the added advantage of avoiding the use of X-rays. 
Oncocytic metaplasia of the pharynx. Oncocytic metaplasia of the pharynx has been infrequently described, with only two previous cases in the literature. With the advent of panendoscopy during the last decade, however, a better understanding of this histopathologic diagnosis is desirable. Thirty-three cases are reviewed, with thirty occurring in the nasopharynx. This was most commonly discovered as an unrelated finding during endoscopic evaluation of a head and neck mass or malignancy in twenty-two patients, either histologically after random biopsy or after biopsy of small but visible lesions. An additional eight cases manifested otitis media or eustachian tube dysfunction. The histology, terminology, and benign clinical nature of these lesions are discussed. 
Pituitary hyperplasia and gigantism in mice caused by a cholera toxin transgene. Cyclic AMP is thought to act as an intracellular second messenger, mediating the physiological response of many cell types to extracellular signals. In the pituitary, growth hormone (GH)-producing cells (somatotrophs) proliferate and produce GH in response to hypothalamic GH-releasing factor, which binds a receptor that stimulates Gs protein activation of adenylyl cyclase. We have now determined whether somatotroph proliferation and GH production are stimulated by cAMP alone, or require concurrent, non-Gs-mediated induction of other regulatory molecules by designing a transgene to induce chronic supraphysiological concentrations of cAMP in somatotrophs. The rat GH promoter was used to express an intracellular form of cholera toxin, a non-cytotoxic and irreversible activator of Gs. Introduction of this transgene into mice caused gigantism, elevated serum GH levels, somatotroph proliferation and pituitary hyperplasia. These results support the direct triggering of these events by cAMP, and illustrate the utility of cholera toxin transgenes as a tool for physiological engineering. 
Balloon dilatation of the aortic valve in the fetus: a report of two cases. Because they had irreversible damage to the left ventricular myocardium none of 12 patients with critical aortic stenosis diagnosed prenatally survived after postnatal treatment. This experience prompted three attempts at intrauterine balloon dilatation of the aortic valve in two fetuses with this condition. On each attempt the balloon catheter was successfully delivered to the left ventricle. In the first fetus the aortic valve was not crossed and the fetus died the next day. In the second fetus the balloon was correctly positioned across the aortic valve and inflated in the valve ring. After delivery, a further balloon angioplasty was performed; this relieved the stenosis but the patient died five weeks later from persisting left ventricular dysfunction related to endocardial fibroelastosis. Balloon angioplasty is feasible in fetal life but the prognosis depends on the ability of the relief of stenosis to limit, prevent, or allow regression of left ventricular damage before delivery. 
New method for dealing with late-presenting spontaneous esophageal ruptures. A new technique is described for dealing with late-presenting spontaneous esophageal ruptures. This method requires only a short period of general anesthesia to drain the periesophageal abscess by a drainage tube inserted into the abscess cavity from the esophagus with the aid of a gastroscope and fluoroscopy. Gastric fluids are diverted from the esophageal rupture with a gastrostomy, and a jejunostomy is used for enteral feeding. The esophagus is retained, and closure of the fistula with resumption of normal swallowing is documented with serial sinograms. 
Alfentanil for urgent caesarean section in a patient with severe mitral stenosis and pulmonary hypertension. We present the case of a parturient with severe mitral stenosis and pulmonary hypertension who received general anaesthesia using alfentanil for urgent Caesarean section. Alfentanil promoted haemodynamic stability and allowed immediate postoperative extubation. Epidural morphine provided postoperative analgesia. This combination permitted early ambulation and prevention of thromboembolism. A disadvantage of this technique, neonatal respiratory depression, was promptly reversed with a single dose of naloxone. The anaesthetic management of mitral stenosis in pregnancy is discussed and the neonatal pharmacokinetics of maternally administered alfentanil are presented. 
Homozygosity for a newly identified missense mutation in a patient with very severe combined immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID). We have identified a previously unrecognized missense mutation in a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID). The mutation is a G646-to-A transition at a CG dinucleotide and predicts a glycine-to-arginine substitution at codon 216. Computer analysis of secondary structure predicts a major alteration with loss of a beta-pleated sheet in a highly conserved region of the protein. The basepair substitution also generates a new site for the restriction enzyme BstXI in exon 7 of the genomic DNA. Digestion of genomic DNA from the patient and from his parents revealed that he was homozygous for the mutation and that his mother and father were carriers. This mutation in homozygous form appears to be associated with very severe disease, since the patient had perinatal onset of clinical manifestations of SCID, the highest concentration of the toxic metabolite deoxyATP in nine patients studied, and a relatively poor immunologic response during the initial 2 years of therapy with polyethylene glycol-adenosine deaminase. Analysis of DNA from 21 additional patients with ADA-SCID and from 19 unrelated normals revealed that, while none of the normal individuals showed the abnormal restriction fragment, two of the 21 patients studied were heterozygous for the G646-to-A mutation. 
Spontaneous abdominal arteriovenous fistulae: report of eight cases and review of the literature. The spontaneous rupture of an abdominal aneurysm into an adjacent major vein results in a profound and rapidly worsening haemodynamic disturbance. Survival depends on prompt diagnosis and closure of the fistula at operation. Eight cases are reported and modes of presentation, diagnostic criteria and management principles are reviewed in a detailed analysis of 148 cases in the English literature. 
Hypoxaemia after nebulised salbutamol in wheezy infants: the importance of aerosol acidity. The effect of nebulised iso-osmolar, preservative free, but acidic salbutamol solution was studied in 34 acutely wheezing infants aged 1-17 months. Transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2) and oxygen saturation (SO2) fell significantly during the first five minutes after nebulisation with further deterioration at 15-20 minutes. Ten of these infants were followed up for another two hours and showed slight improvement. Even after the second hour TcPO2 had not reached baseline values. Three months later the response to salbutamol and a placebo of equal acidity (pH 3.9) was studied in 11 infants from the same group, now free of symptoms. Lung function tests were included and showed no significant changes in specific conductance and volume corrected maximum expiratory flows (Vmax at functional residual capacity/thoracic gas volume). However, hypoxaemia occurred after the acidic placebo with a significant drop of TcPO2 (mean 0.9 kPa); SO2 decreased similarly but this did not reach significance. After salbutamol there was a further significant deterioration of mean TcPO2 (1.4 kPa) and of SO2. These results show that beside a possible pharmacological effect of salbutamol the acidity of the aerosol also induces hypoxaemia in infants. 
Noninvasive quantification of regional myocardial blood flow in coronary artery disease with oxygen-15-labeled carbon dioxide inhalation and positron emission tomography. BACKGROUND. Oxygen-15-labeled water is a diffusible, metabolically inert myocardial blood flow tracer with a short half-life (2 minutes) that can be used quantitatively with positron emission tomography (PET). The purpose of this study was to validate a new technique to quantify myocardial blood flow (MBF) in animals and to assess its application in patients. METHODS AND RESULTS. The technique involves the administration of 15O-labeled carbon dioxide (C15O2) and rapid dynamic scanning. Arterial and myocardial time activity curves were fitted to a single tissue compartment tracer kinetic model to estimate MBF in each myocardial region. Validation studies consisted of 52 simultaneous measurements of MBF with PET and gamma-labeled microspheres in nine closed-chest dogs over a flow range of 0.5-6.1 ml/g/min. A good correlation between the two methods was obtained (y = 0.36 + 1.0x, r = 0.91). Human studies consisted of 11 normal volunteers and eight patients with chronic stable angina and single-vessel disease, before and after intravenous dipyridamole infusion. In the normal group, MBF was homogeneous throughout the left ventricle both at rest and after administration of dipyridamole (0.88 +/- 0.08 ml/g/min and 3.52 +/- 1.12 ml/g/min, respectively; p less than or equal to 0.001). In patients, resting MBF was similar in the distribution of the normal and stenotic arteries (1.03 +/- 0.23 and 0.93 +/- 0.21 ml/g/min, respectively). After dipyridamole infusion, MBF in normally perfused areas increased to 2.86 +/- 0.83 ml/g/min, whereas in the regions supplied by stenotic arteries it increased to only 1.32 +/- 0.27 ml/g/min (p less than or equal to 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. PET with C15O2 inhalation provides an accurate noninvasive quantitative method for measuring regional myocardial blood flow in patients. 
Steps towards cost-benefit analysis of regional neurosurgical care OBJECTIVE--To determine the cost of averting death or severe disability by neurosurgical intervention. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis of one year's admissions for neurosurgery; comparison of outcome with expected outcome in the absence of neurosurgical intervention and with the cost of neurosurgery. SETTING--Wessex Neurological Centre. PATIENTS--1026 Patients were admitted to the neurosurgical service in 1984. Of 1185 admissions, 978 case records were available and outcome was known in 919. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Outcome was assessed with the Glasgow outcome scale, modified as necessary, from the case notes, or by letter follow up to the general practitioner. Expected outcomes for each of the 54 diagnoses were derived from both published reports where available and an expert panel of 18 consultant neurosurgeons. The cost of the neurosurgical service for 1983-4 was known from a separate study and the cost per patient was calculated using the length of stay. RESULTS--The cost of neurosurgery in 1983-4 was 1.8 million pounds. In all, 243 deaths or severe disabilities were estimated to have been averted at an average cost of 7325 pounds (range 5000 pounds to 70,000 pounds). The overall cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) was 350 pounds (range 34 pounds to greater than 400,000 pounds). The cost of long term care for severely disabled survivors is at least 18-fold greater than the cost of neurosurgical intervention to avert such disability. CONCLUSIONS--In Britain neurosurgery is not expensive in comparison with the costs and benefits of other areas of medicine, and the cost per QALY is unexpectedly low except for severe diffuse head injury, malignant brain tumors, and cerebral metastases. The neurosurgical budget should be assessed in the context of managing a patient in hospital and subsequently in the community. 
Uncompacted inner myelin lamellae in inherited tendency to pressure palsy. Nerves in patients with inherited tendency to pressure palsy (ITPP) are susceptible to degrees of traction or compression which in nonaffected persons do not induce neuropathic symptoms or deficits, conduction block of fibers, or electromyographic changes characteristic of the disorder. Two observations suggest a widespread asymptomatic abnormality of nerves: 1) low conduction velocity of clinically unaffected nerves, and 2) focal thickenings (tomacula) on teased myelinated fibers of clinically unaffected sural nerves. Sural nerves from five patients and five healthy subjects were assessed for morphologic abnormality in ITPP that might account for the susceptibility of nerves to compression. Teased nerve fibers showed a higher frequency of segmental demyelination or remyelination, or both (p less than 0.003). The mean frequency of fibers showing focal myelin thickenings was 57 +/- 10% in ITPP and 0% in controls. In electron micrographs, regions of uncompacted myelin lamellae, usually affecting the innermost lamellae and extending for a variable distance averaging 9 +/- 4 microns were seen in 11 +/- 4% of fibers in ITPP. None were found in the control nerves. The finding of uncompacted myelin lamellae may suggest an abnormality of myelin composition or of interaction of Schwann cells and axons accounting for the increased susceptibility to pressure palsy, tomaculous formation, or demyelination. From electron microscopic evaluation of serial skip sections we infer that myelin of tomaculae is in continuity with internodal myelin and is reduplicated (full-thickness or cleaved layers are longitudinally or circumferentially folded-back on themselves). 
Molecular characterization of the mouse mannose-binding proteins. The mannose-binding protein A but not C is an acute phase reactant. Mannose-binding proteins play a role in first line host defense against a variety of pathogens. We report the molecular cloning of two mouse mannose-binding proteins designated A and C based on their close identity with their rat homologues. The deduced amino acid sequence of the mouse mannose-binding proteins, as with rat and the human forms, have an NH2 terminus that is rich in cysteine that stabilizes a collagen alpha helix followed by a carboxyl- terminal carbohydrate binding domain. We further show that the mouse mannose-binding protein A mRNA, as with the human, is induced like the acute phase reactant serum amyloid P protein, yet the expression of mouse mannose-binding protein C mRNA is not regulated above its low baseline level. The expression of both mannose-binding proteins A and C mRNA is restricted to the liver under basal and stress conditions. 
Chagas' cardioneuropathy: effect of ganglioside treatment in chronic dysautonomic patients--a randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled study. To date, there is no effective pharmacologic treatment for Chagas' cardioneuropathy, one of the most common causes of congestive heart failure and sudden death in the world. Fifty-eight adults with positive serology for Chagas' disease and abnormal autonomic nervous system tests participated in this placebo-controlled clinical trial with Cronassial (mixed gangliosides), 40 mg daily intramuscular injection for 4 or 8 weeks. We measured postural response (heart rate, systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure changes in response to standing); heart rate changes induced by cough and hyperventilation reflex tests; dizziness on standing; number of stress-induced arrhythmias; and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive T-lymphocyte percentage in blood samples. Cronassial is safe and significantly improves systolic blood pressure (p = 0.050) and double product responses to postural stress (p = 0.028), hyperventilation heart rate response (p = 0.007), frequency of dizziness episodes (p less than 0.001), number of arrhythmias (p = 0.033), and percentage of PAS-positive T-lymphocyte counts (p less than 0.001) compared with placebo. 
Biliary patency imaging after endoscopic retrograde sphincterotomy with gallbladder in situ. Clinical impact of nonvisualization. We prospectively performed nuclear biliary patency imaging (HIDA scanning) in 62 patients who had undergone endoscopic retrograde sphincterotomy for management of pancreaticobiliary disease with their gallbladders in situ. Elective cholecystectomy was not recommended because of advanced age, comorbidity, or absence of gallstones. All patients had patent cystic ducts at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography balloon cholangiography. Eighteen (29.1%) of 62 patients had nonvisualizing HIDA scans, and in 44 (70.9%) of 62 visualization was normal or delayed. Six cholecystectomies were required for colic (n = 1), acute cholecystitis (n = 4), and acute cholecystocholedochal fistula with cholangitis (n = 1). Among the patients with cholelithiasis and nonvisualization (n = 13), five (38.5%) required surgery, whereas only one (4.8%) of 21 patients with cholelithiasis and visualization required surgery. Nonvisualizing HIDA scans are frequent (30%) after endoscopic retrograde sphincterotomy and have no clinical relevance in patients without cholelithiasis but predict the need for cholecystectomy within 16 months in 38.5% of patients with cholelithiasis. 
Anterograde amnesia with fornix damage following removal of IIIrd ventricle colloid cyst. Two patients developed anterograde amnesia following the apparently uncomplicated transcallosal-transventricular removal of a colloid cyst. Damage to the fornical columns was demonstrated on CT and MRI scans, whilst other memory related structures were entirely normal. Longitudinal neuropsychological evaluation, over 12-24 months, has revealed a very similar pattern of deficit in the two cases: verbal memory has remained persistently impaired whilst nonverbal anterograde memory has improved to some degree. Formal tests of remote public (famous faces and events) and personal autobiographical memory have supported the clinical impression that neither patient has a temporally extensive retrograde amnesia. These findings address the role of the fornix, and the dissociation of memory processes in humans. 
High-dose melphalan with 6-hydroxydopamine-purged autologous bone marrow transplantation for poor-risk neuroblastoma. Long-term results are presented of 28 patients who were diagnosed with neuroblastoma at more than 12 months of age and who received melphalan 180 mg/m2 (n = 6) or 240 mg/m2 (n = 22) to consolidate remissions of Stage IV disease or to control refractory disease. Twenty-four patients also received dianhydrogalactitol 180 to 240 mg/m2, and 11 received total body irradiation 450 to 600 cGy. Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) was performed with marrow that was unpurged (n = 2) or purged ex vivo (n = 26) with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) 20 micrograms/ml plus ascorbate 200 micrograms/ml. The median time to an absolute neutrophil count of 500/microliters was 21 days and to self-sustaining platelet counts more than 20,000/microliters, 28 days. One patient required infusion of unpurged reserve marrow. Two groups of patients underwent ABMT: (1) 17 patients (Group I) who were in first remission a median of 7 months after diagnosis; and (2) 11 patients (Group II) who had refractory disease or were in second remission. For Group I, event-free survival was 29% at 12 months and 6% at 24 months post-ABMT. All Group II patients died of disease or ABMT-related toxicity. Overall, of the 28 patients, one is a long-term relapse-free survivor; five died of ABMT-related toxicity; ten patients with tumors present at ABMT had progressive disease within 6 months of ABMT; and 12 patients with no measurable disease at ABMT relapsed 4 to 32 months (median, 12) post-ABMT. Among the latter, six relapses involved the primary site, and six were restricted to distant sites. These results--in accord with the long-term outcome in other series--suggest that for neuroblastoma high-dose melphalan cannot be relied on to ablate residual disease or to salvage patients with refractory tumors. In addition, the pattern of relapse in several patients could be explained by infusion of incompletely purged autografts; this would support recent laboratory evidence that 6-OHDA/ascorbate is a suboptimal purging method. 
Malignant biliary obstruction complicated by ascites: transjugular insertion of an expandable metallic endoprosthesis. Although the transjugular approach has long been used to provide safe access to the liver, it has not been used for placement of stents in biliary obstruction. The recent development of an expandable metallic endoprosthesis now makes this method more feasible. The case of a patient with malignant biliary obstruction complicated by ascites is presented herein. Palliation was achieved with an expandable biliary endoprosthesis placed by the transjugular-hepatic vein approach. 
Time spent caregiving and help received by spouses and adult children of brain-impaired adults. Caregivers for brain-impaired adults differ in living arrangements, amount of time spent giving care, and assistance received from family and friends and from paid help depending on their kin relationship and employment status. Spousal caregivers devote large amounts of time to caregiving, and husbands spend no less time than wives. Most caregivers receive little assistance from other family members and friends, but husbands receive more than others. Employed spouses receive more paid help than those without jobs, but employment does not affect the amount of paid help received by adult daughters. 
Epilepsy and brain tumors: implications for treatment. Primary intraparenchymal tumors of the brain are important etiologic factors in partial or focal epilepsy. Indolent low-grade gliomas may be associated with a long-standing seizure disorder refractory to medical treatment. Surgical resection of the neoplasm and the epileptogenic area may render patients seizure-free. Removal of the tumor alone may also be associated with an excellent survival rate and surgical outcome. Conventional neurosurgical procedures are restricted in patients with tumors that are deep-seated lesions or involve functional cerebral cortex. Computer-assisted stereotactic surgical procedures have been developed for biopsy and resection of intra-axial brain-mass lesions. Stereotactic tumor resection may allow pathological determination of intracranial lesions and produce a worthwhile reduction in seizure activity in some patients with intractable partial epilepsy. 
Labyrinthitis ossificans: histopathologic consideration for cochlear implantation. Labyrinthitis ossificans may be a hindrance to cochlear implantation by making electrode insertion difficult. We performed a histopathologic study of 24 temporal bones with labyrinthitis ossificans from multiple causes. The organ of Corti was graphically reconstructed and the degree of obstruction was estimated for each millimeter of the cochlea. Correlations were calculated between the degree of new bone formation and the cause, patient's age and sex, and time from the original temporal bone insult. Our results demonstrate that complete cochlear ossification is rare. The scala tympani in the basal turn of the cochlea is the most frequent area of ossification, regardless of the cause of the labyrinthitis ossificans. Meningogenic labyrinthitis, usually a childhood disease, was associated with the greatest amount of ossification. When ossification resulted from tympanogenic labyrinthitis, the scala tympani was completely ossified near the round window niche in all temporal bones. Neo-ossification of the basal turn associated with otosclerosis was limited to the proximal 6 mm of the scala tympani in all cases. Three temporal bones had a patent round window niche and basal turn, but significant apical and middle-turn ossification. Peripheral sensorineural elements were severely degenerated in the region of the ossification in all specimens, and spiral ganglion cell counts were decreased. 
Fume fever and reactive airways dysfunction syndrome in a welder. I have reported a case of fume fever and concurrent reactive airways dysfunction syndrome (RADS) after welding. The RADS should be added to the list of potential hazards associated with welding. 
Carcinoma (malignant mixed mullerian [mesodermal] tumor) of the uterus and ovary. Correlation of clinical, pathologic, and immunohistochemical features in 29 cases. We examined the histologic, immunohistochemical, and clinical features of a series of 23 endometrial, five cervical, and one ovarian carcinosarcomas (malignant mixed mullerian [mesodermal] tumors) and nine associated distant peritoneal metastases. The primary tumors all showed epithelial differentiation (cytokeratin and/or epithelial membrane antigen expression) of the carcinomatous component, while sarcomatous areas showed epithelial differentiation in all but one case. The metastases showed uniform staining for cytokeratin (eight of eight cases) and epithelial membrane antigen (eight of eight cases), including the spindle cell component that was present in four of nine cases. Desmin significantly changed the interpretation of rhabdomyosarcoma differentiation by refuting putative rhabdomyoblasts in two cases and identifying rhabdomyoblasts in two other cases where they were unrecognized on hematoxylineosin staining. S100 protein was positive in all five cases with chondrosarcoma differentiation. Muscle-specific actin and vimentin were positive in the sarcomatous component of all cases and in the carcinomatous component of seven and 10 cases, respectively. After immunostaining, heterologous elements were present in 18 of 29 cases (11 cases of rhabdomyosarcoma, three cases of chondrosarcoma, three cases of mixed rhabdomyosarcoma and chondrosarcoma, and one case of liposarcoma). Only six of 27 patients with follow-up were disease free for 12 months or longer (associated with stage I or II disease, smaller size, no lymphatic invasion in the resection specimen, and no invasion of the outer two thirds of myometrium). Presence and type of heterologous elements, grade of sarcomatous or carcinomatous components, histologic type of carcinomatous component, gross appearance, presence of necrosis, or use of chemotherapy or radiotherapy did not affect outcome. Carcinosarcomas are clinically aggressive distinctive mixed epithelial-stromal neoplasms with histologic and immunohistochemical features that overlap with metaplastic carcinoma in many cases. 
Cytokines and the pathogenesis of neuroborreliosis: Borrelia burgdorferi induces glioma cells to secrete interleukin-6. Lyme disease is a multisystemic disease caused by a tickborne spirochete, Borrelia burgdorferi. Neuroborreliosis is characterized by intrathecal production of antibodies specific for the spirochete. This suggests that spirochetal infection of the central nervous system produces conditions that support the maturation of B lymphocytes to immunoglobulin-secreting cells. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) stimulates B cell differentiation into antibody-secreting cells. The present study was undertaken to determine whether B. burgdorferi can stimulate cells of central nervous system origin to secrete IL-6. C6 rat glioma cells cultured with spirochetes induced secretion of IL-6 activity. Peak stimulation was achieved at 24 h with 25 spirochetes per glioma cell. Glioma cells were also stimulated to produce IL-6 by interleukin 1 and tumor necrosis factor. That very few spirochetes are found in Lyme disease patients suggests that biologic amplification factors derived from the organism or the host, or both, are responsible for the pathogenesis of this disease. IL-6 can now be added to the growing list of such factors. 
Cataract extraction after brachytherapy for malignant melanoma of the choroid. Thirteen eyes of 55 consecutive patients treated with brachytherapy for malignant melanoma of the choroid developed postirradiation cataracts. Cataract development was more common in older patients and in patients with larger and more anterior tumors. Eleven eyes had extracapsular cataract extraction and intraocular lens implantation. Initial visual improvement occurred in 91% of eyes, with an average improvement of 5.5 lines. Visual acuity was maintained at 20/60 or better in 55% of the eyes over an average period of follow-up of 24 months (range, 6 to 40 months). These data suggest that, visually, cataract extraction can be helpful in selected patients who develop a cataract after brachytherapy for malignant melanoma of the choroid. 
Familial aneurysms of the interventricular septum. Congenital aneurysms of the interventricular septum were found in a 29 year old man and his four year old son. Both were symptom free. In both, M mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed an aneurysm in the mid-muscular trabecular portion of the ventricular septum with considerable paradoxical motion of the aneurysmal segment. Otherwise the chamber dimensions, intracardiac structures, and cardiac function were normal for age. Congenital aneurysm of the interventricular septum is rare and these familial cases may be unique. 
Clinical significance of aortic graft dilation. To determine if there is a relationship between aortic graft dilation and graft complications, 443 serial ultrasound studies performed on 106 patients were analyzed. Of 443 studies, 243 were done retrospectively on 59 patients from 3 to 144 months (mean, 38 months) after graft implantation. Forty-seven additional patients were studied prospectively, with direct measurement of external graft diameter after aortic clamp release. Subsequent ultrasound examinations at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and then annually (n = 200) were routinely performed. Mean follow-up was 12 months (range, 3 to 48). Knitted double velour Dacron prostheses were used in all cases reported in this study. This cohort was culled from our ongoing graft surveillance program, which includes grafts of other materials and manufacturers. Comparison of the manufacturer's recorded box size with follow-up ultrasound measurements in all cases demonstrated a mean increase in graft diameter of 3.7 mm (23%). Little dilation occurred after 1 year. In 47 patients with direct graft diameter measurements taken after declamping, an immediate mean increase of 1.7 mm (11%) was noted. Dilation was not related to surgical indication (aneurysm vs occlusive disease) or hypertension. Analysis of the 10% segment of the series with the greatest dilation (mean, 39%) did not demonstrate a predilection for graft complications. No significant dilation was noted in the single cases encountered of femoral and iliac anastomotic aneurysms and perigraft seroma. Although dilation of knitted Dacron grafts is to be anticipated, no association between graft dilation and graft complications was found in this series. 
Electrophysiologic analysis of early Parkinson's disease. We have been interested in the application of quantitative measures of motor performance as a possible means of early detection of Parkinson's disease. To assess motor function, we have measured movement time (the physiologic correlate of bradykinesia) and reaction time (simple and directional choice) with an upper limb motor task, and tremor with accelerometry and electromyographic recordings. In this report we describe preliminary data from a Parkinson's disease patient group with symptoms of fewer than 2 years' average duration (compared with an age- and gender-matched normal control group) which indicate that precise, quantitative tests of motor function can detect the slight deviations from normal that are present in early Parkinson's disease. It appears that tests of bradykinesia are most sensitive, and detection of rest tremor is most specific. These tests may be applicable in screening individuals who are suspected of having or are "at risk for" Parkinson's disease and other related disorders. 
Natural history and prognostic variables in primary sclerosing cholangitis. The clinical features at the time of presentation and the outcome in 126 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were studied to clarify the natural history and prognosis in symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals. The median age of the patients at the time of presentation was 36 years, 62% were male, and 16% were asymptomatic. The median follow-up from time of presentation was 5.8 years. There were more patients who had liver transplants (21%) than patients who died of liver-related disease (16%); the estimated median survival to these end points was 12 years. Cholangiocarcinoma was found in 8 patients and in 23% of those undergoing liver transplantation. Asymptomatic patients had milder disease than symptomatic patients, but in a univariate analysis the presence of symptoms was not prognostically significant. On multivariate analysis, the following independent prognostic factors were found: hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, serum alkaline phosphatase, histological stage, and age. These features were combined to produce a prognostic model that should be valuable in the stratification of patients in clinical trials and in the timing of liver transplantation, particularly in those patients seen soon after presentation. 
Psychological aspects of orthognathic surgery: how people respond to facial change. This study was undertaken to explore the motivations and problems shared by adult orthognathic surgical patients over the age of 25. Objective findings included demographic information and reasons for seeking surgery. The majority of 65 respondents cited functional problems as their primary reason for seeking treatment. Eighty-nine percent were pleased with esthetic changes, and 83% responded that the functional problem had been corrected. For most, the greatest discomfort related to the surgery was the postoperative intensive care unit. Two of the most common side effects of the surgery were the loss of sensation in the lips and chin area and a short period of depression. Women had depression more often than men but were more enthusiastic about the final results of the procedure. Two major areas of interest to surgeons emerged from the research. First, although women have functional problems, the majority seem to have a desire for cosmetic improvement. Having a functional problem seemed to provide the psychological permission necessary to spend the time and money for a cosmetic change. The second point focused on the need for good communication between surgeon and patient. The patients who were more positive toward the procedure and more satisfied with the results were those who were better informed and who thought they had a good system of communication with the orthodontist, surgeon, and their respective staffs. 
Secondary ischaemia in rabbit skin flaps: the roles played by thromboxane and free radicals. 1. Biochemical mechanisms of ischaemia were investigated in rabbit skin flaps subjected to 2 h of primary ischaemia then, 24 h later, to 4 h of secondary ischaemia. During secondary ischaemia, flaps underwent either total ischaemia (arterial and venous blood supply occluded) or partial ischaemia (vein only occluded). Some of these flaps were treated at the time of reperfusion with the free-radical scavenger superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1) and/or the thromboxane synthetase inhibitor UK-38,485. 2. After 30 min of reperfusion, superoxide dismutase treatment significantly reduced blood thromboxane levels, elevated during ischaemia. Superoxide dismutase also reduced tissue levels of malonyldialdehyde and xanthine oxidase, indicators of free-radical damage, and restored the depleted tissue levels of superoxide dismutase. 3. UK-38,485 treatment failed to significantly alter any of these tissue free-radical parameters, although this agent significantly reduced blood thromboxane levels. 4. Combined superoxide dismutase plus UK-38,485 treatment was not significantly better than either treatment alone with respect to any parameter. 5. Partial ischaemia led to consistently higher levels of tissue free radicals and blood thromboxane than did total ischaemia. Thus partial ischaemia appears to result in greater free-radical damage than total ischaemia. 6. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that thromboxane acts as a mediator for free-radical damage in the ischaemic changes within the flap. 
Experimental arterial thrombosis in nonhuman primates. The baboon offers many advantages as an experimental animal to study vascular disease, thrombus formation and dissolution, effects of mediating variables, and the relative efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Each specific application for testing therapeutic agents may require testing in somewhat different model systems. For example, although the arteriovenous vascular graft model is efficient, cost effective, and well adapted to study of interventions for acute arterial thrombosis, surgical endarterectomy extends the evaluation to include interactions with the injured vascular wall. As the antithrombotic products of genetic engineering and molecular biology emerge, it will be increasingly important to have relevant, reproducible, and quantitative approaches to evaluate their effects in vivo. 
Low-grade, latent prostate cancer volume: predictor of clinical cancer incidence? We hypothesize that each cell in low-grade (Gleason grade 1-3) prostate cancer tissue is at risk of transformation into a cell which produces a high-grade (Gleason grade 4-5) clinical cancer after a short period of growth. As a consequence, the volume of low-grade, latent cancer tissue in the prostate glands of men at any age determines their incidence rate for high-grade, clinical cancer a few years later. Autopsy and incidence data for both white men and black men support this conclusion, with a tumor growth period of about 7 years. The transformation rate is similar for black men and for white men, about 0.024 high-grade cancers per year per cm3 of low-grade, latent cancer volume. Our hypothesis explains the infrequent occurrence of clinical cancer despite the high prevalence of latent cancer, the steep rise of clinical cancer incidence with age despite the slow rise of latent cancer prevalence with age, and the disparities in clinical cancer incidence among some populations despite their similar latent cancer prevalence. This hypothesis suggests that low-grade cancer volume is a critical determinant of clinical cancer risk. 
The antifibrillatory actions of UK-68,798, a class III antiarrhythmic agent. The electrophysiologic and antifibrillatory properties of UK-68,798 were studied in vivo in a conscious canine model of sudden coronary death. Electrophysiologic testing was performed on conscious male mongrel dogs (14.5-21.5 kg) 3 to 5 days after surgical induction of an anterior myocardial infarction by occlusion (2 h)-reperfusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Compared to saline-treated control animals, UK-68,798 at a dose of 0.9 mg/kg i.v. did not (P = .083) suppress the induction of ventricular tachycardia by programmed electrical stimulation. Six of 12 UK-68,798-treated dogs remained inducible, whereas 10 of 12 vehicle-treated dogs responded to electrical induction of arrhythmia. When compared to predrug inducibility, UK-68,798 significantly (P = .007) reduced the incidence of programmed electrical stimulation-induced ventricular tachycardia. In five of the six dogs inducible after UK-68,798 administration, the cycle length of the induced ventricular tachycardia was prolonged (P = .007) compared to the predrug cycle length. Heart rate, PR interval and QRS duration were not affected by UK-68,798 administration. The rate-corrected QT interval was prolonged (P less than .05) by UK-68,798. The ventricular effective refractory period was increased by UK-68,798 (158 +/- 7 msec, predrug vs. 185 +/- 7 msec, postdrug). Subsequent to programmed electrical stimulation, a 150 microA anodal current was applied to the luminal surface of the left circumflex coronary artery to induce transient episodes of posterolateral ischemia in response to electrolytic injury of the vessel wall. 
Use of leucocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) score in differentiating malignant from benign paraproteinaemias. The leucocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) score of peripheral blood neutrophils was examined in 20 patients with multiple myeloma and compared with the score in 18 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS). The mean (95% confidence limit) LAP score in those with multiple myeloma was 186 (169-218) compared with 92 (64-120) in the MGUS group. In the multiple myeloma group all but one patient had a high LAP score, irrespective of disease. No cause for raised LAP, such as infection, was present in any of the patients with multiple myeloma. In the MGUS group six patients had a raised LAP score; in two of them another cause for such a rise was present (autoimmune haemolytic anaemia and primary thrombocythaemia). In neither group did the LAP score correlate with duration of the disease, bone marrow plasma cell count, paraprotein concentration, haemoglobin, total white cell or neutrophil count. It is concluded that a normal LAP count in patients with paraproteinaemia suggests a benign condition, but a raised count does not indicate a malignant condition. 
ATP-dependent K+ channels modulate vasoconstrictor responses to severe hypoxia in isolated ferret lungs. In normo- and hypoglycemic ferret lungs, the pulmonary vascular response to severe hypoxia (PiO2 less than or equal to 10 mmHg) is characterized by an initial intense vasoconstriction followed by marked vasodilation, whereas in hyperglycemic lungs, vasodilation is minimal, causing vasoconstriction to be sustained. In contrast, the response to moderate hypoxia is characterized by a slowly developing sustained vasoconstriction which is unaffected by glucose concentration. To determine the role of ATP-dependent K+ (KATP) channels in these responses, we examined the effects of cromakalim, which opens KATP channels, and glibenclamide, which closes them. During steady-state vasoconstriction induced in isolated ferret lungs by moderate hypoxia, cromakalim caused dose-dependent vasodilation (EC50 = 7 x 10(-7) M) which was reversed by glibenclamide (IC50 = 8 x 10(-7) M), indicating that KATP channels were present and capable of modulating vascular tone. During severe hypoxia in hypoglycemic lungs [( glucose] less than 1 mM), glibenclamide markedly inhibited the secondary vasodilation. Raising perfusate glucose concentration to 14 +/- 0.4 mM had the same effect. As a result, initial vasoconstrictor responses were well sustained. However, neither glibenclamide nor hyperglycemia affected vasoconstrictor responses to moderate hypoxia or KCl, indicating that effects during severe hypoxia were not due to nonspecific potentiation of vasoconstriction. These findings suggest that in the ferret lung (a) severe hypoxia decreased ATP concentration and thereby opened KATP channels, resulting in increased K+ efflux, hyperpolarization, vasodilation, and reversal of the initial vasoconstrictor response; and (b) hyperglycemia prevented this sequence of events. 
Colonoscopic surveillance after polypectomy: considerations of cost effectiveness. OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of the current recommendation that persons who have had an adenomatous colon polyp removed have periodic colonoscopic surveillance at fixed and regular intervals. DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using data from the medical literature in a simulation model to estimate the costs of and the risk for perforation associated with periodic colonoscopic surveillance for a 50-year-old man followed for 30 years. MAIN RESULTS: A program of colonoscopy every 3 years would incur cumulatively a 1.4% risk for colon perforation, a 0.11% risk for perforation-related death, and direct physician costs of $2071 for colonoscopy (discounted at 5%). If a 50-year-old man's cumulative remaining risk for death from cancer is 2.5% after the removal of a single small adenoma and if effectiveness of colonoscopic surveillance every 3 years is 100%, then one death from cancer could be prevented by doing 283 colonoscopies, incurring 0.6 perforations, 0.04 perforation-related deaths, and direct physician costs of $82,000. If surveillance were 50% effective and the cumulative remaining risk for death from cancer were 1.25%--a plausible scenario--1131 colonoscopies would be required to prevent one death from cancer, incurring 2.3 perforations, 0.17 perforation-related deaths, and physician costs of $331,000. CONCLUSIONS: The cost effectiveness of colonoscopic surveillance is very sensitive to estimates of the cumulative remaining risk for death from cancer after polypectomy as well as to surveillance efficacy. For persons whose remaining risk for death from cancer may be low, such as persons with a single small adenoma, recommendations for colonoscopic surveillance at fixed and regular intervals may be excessively costly. 
Screening blood donors for gastrointestinal illness: a strategy to eliminate carriers of Yersinia enterocolitica. Recent reports of fatal transfusion-associated Yersinia enterocolitica sepsis prompted a study of the feasibility of adding a question to the routine donor health history as a method of reducing this risk. In three American Red Cross blood centers, 11,323 donors were asked one of two questions about gastrointestinal symptoms during their health history screenings. Affirmative responses were obtained from 0.6 or 4.0 percent of the donors, depending on how the question was asked. In one center, more than 6 percent of donors gave affirmative answers. The efficacy of asking a relatively simple question about gastrointestinal symptoms as a way of preventing Y. enterocolitica should be evaluated further, because relatively large numbers of donors may respond affirmatively. Other methods of reducing the risk of transfusion-associated Y. enterocolitica infection should be pursued. 
Single-center comparison of results of 1000 prenatal diagnoses with chorionic villus sampling and 1000 diagnoses with amniocentesis. Large multicenter studies have confirmed the safety and accuracy of chorionic villus sampling as a prenatal genetic diagnostic procedure, but there have been few single-center evaluations. We report our experience with 1000 consecutive chorionic villus sampling procedures compared with 1000 consecutive amniocentesis procedures during the same period. The procedures were performed by the same genetic counselors, sonographers, obstetricians, and laboratory personnel. Indications for referral, demographic characteristics of patients, numbers of attempts per patient, fetal loss rates, laboratory results, and evaluation of accuracy are included. Analysis of all data suggests that chorionic villus sampling is a safe and accurate alternative to amniocentesis in our community-based teaching hospital. 
Immunocytochemical panel for the identification of malignant cells in serous effusions. The cytologic diagnosis of malignancy in serous effusions can be challenging. An immunocytochemical (ICC) panel using commercially available antibodies (to carcinoembryonic antigen [CEA], epithelial membrane antigen [EMA], B72.3, Leu-M1, cytokeratin [CK], leukocyte common antigen [LCA], S-100 protein, and vimentin) was applied to cell blocks fixed in methyl Carnoy's solution that were from 55 consecutive pleural, peritoneal, and pericardial fluid specimens. The results were correlated with data from clinical records and routine cytologic studies. Final cytologic diagnoses included 26 of adenocarcinoma and 1 of mesothelioma. The remaining 28 cases were considered to be benign (reactive) proliferations. EMA, CEA, B72.3, and Leu-M1 were present in 96%, 77%, 58%, and 42% of adenocarcinomas, respectively. These determinants were absent in the mesothelioma and the reactive effusions, although anti-CEA yielded strong background staining of inflammatory cells. The CK markers identified malignant cells in 93% of cases, but consistently stained mesothelial cells as well. Antivimentin strongly labeled mesothelial cells in all cases, with weak to absent staining of malignant cells. In 3 of 26 carcinoma cases (12%), the ICC panel identified malignant cells that were not recognized initially on routine cytologic examination. In 1 of 26 cases (4%), the panel was falsely negative. Use of this approach can improve the diagnostic accuracy of cytologic examination of serous fluids. The ICC panel is especially helpful when atypical mesothelial proliferation is present, or in cases that are clinically suspect for malignancy, but cytologically negative because there are only a few malignant cells, or those that are cytologically bland. 
Failure to awaken after general anaesthesia secondary to paradoxical venous embolus. A patient is presented who failed to regain consciousness after an apparently uneventful nine-hour revision of a total hip replacement. There were no clinically important haemodynamic changes during the operation, and oxygen saturation, capnography and acid base balance were normal throughout. Postop CT of the head showed a large left MCA infarct with midline shift. At autopsy, the patient was found to have a previously unsuspected patent foramen ovale, and a venous embolus in the left internal carotid artery, which probably had originated from the periprostatic venous plexus with a large infarct in the distribution of the left anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The authors conclude that massive paradoxical venous emboli can occur during surgery with minimal haemodynamic changes. 
Gastric ulcer healing: a comparison of enprostil versus ranitidine. Enprostil is a synthetic prostaglandin E2 analogue with gastric antisecretory and mucosal protective properties. We compared the effects of enprostil and ranitidine on the healing of gastric ulcers and the subsequent relapse rates over 6 months. Patients (N = 156) were recruited for a double-blind study from 12 centers in Europe; 71 were randomly assigned to oral treatment with 35 micrograms enprostil twice daily and 85 to 150 mg ranitidine twice daily for up to 8 weeks. Both groups were of similar demography; their healing rates were also similar. Cumulative intent-to-treat healing rates were at 4 weeks enprostil 48%, ranitidine 41%: at 6 weeks enprostil 65%, ranitidine 68%; and at 8 weeks enprostil 72%, ranitidine 80%. Of those patients who met all protocol criteria and completed treatment, and were endoscoped at the prescribed times, healing rates were at 4 weeks enprostil 55%, ranitidine 54%, at 6 weeks enprostil 75%, ranitidine 84%; and at 8 weeks enprostil 80%, ranitidine 90%. Relief of pain was rapid and similar in both groups. The incidence of adverse events was low and similar in the two groups. The treatment-free relapse rate at 6 months was enprostil 64%, ranitidine 49%; the median times to relapse were 169 and 203 days, respectively. Enprostil and ranitidine appear to be equally effective in healing gastric ulcers. 
Coordinate occupancy of AP-1 sites in the vitamin D-responsive and CCAAT box elements by Fos-Jun in the osteocalcin gene: model for phenotype suppression of transcription. Osteocalcin, a bone-specific protein and marker of the mature osteoblast, is expressed only in nonproliferating osteoblasts in a mineralizing extracellular matrix, while type I collagen is expressed in proliferating cells. The nuclear proteins encoded by the c-fos and c-jun protooncogenes are expressed during the proliferation period of osteoblast phenotype development. We present evidence that AP-1 (HeLa cell-activating protein 1) sites residing within two promoter elements of the osteocalcin gene bind the Fos-Jun protein complex: the osteocalcin box (OC box; nucleotides -99 to -76), which contains a CCAAT motif as a central element and influences tissue-specific basal levels of osteocalcin gene transcription, and the vitamin D-responsive element (VDRE; nucleotides -462 to -440), which mediates enhancement of osteocalcin gene transcription. Gel electrophoretic mobility-shift analysis demonstrated high AP-1 binding activity in proliferating osteoblasts and dramatic changes in this activity after the down-regulation of proliferation and the initiation of extracellular-matrix mineralization in primary cultures of normal diploid osteoblasts. Methylation interference analysis established at single nucleotide resolution that purified recombinant Fos and Jun proteins bind in a sequence-specific manner to the AP-1 sites within the VDRE and OC box. Similarly, an AP-1 motif within a putative VDRE of the alkaline phosphatase gene, which is also expressed after the completion of proliferation, binds the Fos-Jun complex. These results support a model in which coordinate occupancy of the AP-1 sites in the VDRE and OC box in proliferating osteoblasts may suppress both basal level and vitamin D-enhanced osteocalcin gene transcription as well as transcription of other genes associated with osteoblast differentiation--a phenomenon we describe as phenotype suppression. This model is further supported by binding of the Fos-Jun complex at an AP-1 site in the type alpha I collagen promoter that is contiguous with, but not overlapping, the VDRE. Such a sequence organization in the collagen VDRE motif is compatible with vitamin D modulation of collagen but not with osteocalcin and alkaline phosphatase expression in proliferating osteoblasts. 
Pentoxifylline in the treatment of vascular impotence--case reports. Vascular impotence is a common medical problem for which available therapies are limited. Three impotent patients observed in the authors' practice who were receiving pentoxifylline for treatment of claudication of the lower extremities spontaneously reported improved sexual function. A controlled trial of pentoxifylline for vascular impotence may be warranted. 
Polycystic ovary syndrome: abnormalities and management with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs. Ovulation induction with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone achieves high ovulatory and pregnancy rates in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism while limiting the occurrence of ovarian hyperstimulation and multiple pregnancy. However, this form of therapy is apparently less effective in polycystic ovary syndrome. The administration of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog for 4 to 8 weeks before the initiation of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone ovulation induction can temporarily correct endocrine abnormalities of polycystic ovary syndrome, such as excessive luteinizing hormone and androgen secretion, and improve ovulatory and pregnancy rates in these patients. For optimal results, this pretreatment should probably be repeated before each pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone ovulation induction cycle. Obesity is associated with a lower success rate, and spontaneous abortion remains a prominent complication in polycystic ovary syndrome even after gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog suppression. With this regimen the risks of ovarian hyperstimulation and multiple pregnancy are virtually abolished. Thus, pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone appears to be highly effective and safe for ovulation induction in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome also, provided that this treatment is preceded by pituitary-ovarian suppression with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog. 
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated diseases: a pathologist's perspective. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) are a useful diagnostic serologic marker for the most common forms of necrotizing vasculitis, provide a means of categorizing vasculitides so that diagnostically useful shared pathologic and clinical characteristics can be recognized, and offer insight into the pathogenesis of previously idiopathic diseases. ANCA-associated vasculitides can be categorized into a number of distinctive clinicopathologic categories, eg, Wegener's granulomatosis, Churg-Strauss syndrome, pulmonary renal syndrome, microscopic polyarteritis nodosa, leukocytoclastic angiitis, and necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis. At least the latter four syndromes can also be caused by other ANCA-negative immunopathogenic mechanisms, eg, immune complex deposition. Therefore, thorough diagnostic classification requires both an assessment of clinicopathologic category, as well as an assessment of immunopathologic category. Although different ANCA-associated vasculitic syndromes have distinctive clinical and pathologic features, all ANCA-associated vasculitides share a number of common pathologic features, ie, focal distribution, necrosis, and neutrophil infiltration. ANCA assays have very good sensitivity and specificity for ANCA-associated diseases, but the prevalence of these diseases in the patient population being analyzed must be taken into consideration when determining the predictive value of a test result. As with all serologic tests, ANCA results must be integrated with other clinical and pathologic data in order to reach the most accurate diagnostic conclusion. 
Chronic xerostomia increases esophageal acid exposure and is associated with esophageal injury. OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of chronic xerostomia on parameters of gastroesophageal reflux and esophagitis. DESIGN: Observational study of a cohort of male patients with xerostomia and age-matched control subjects. SETTING: Tertiary-care Veterans Affairs Medical Center. SUBJECTS: Sixteen male patients with chronic xerostomia secondary to radiation for head and neck cancers or medications. Nineteen age-matched male control subjects with comparable alcohol and smoking histories. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Esophageal motility was similar in patients with xerostomia and controls. Clearance of acid from the esophagus and 24-hour intraesophageal pH were markedly abnormal in patients with xerostomia. Symptoms and signs of esophagitis were significantly more frequent in subjects with xerostomia. CONCLUSIONS: Chronic xerostomia may predispose to esophageal injury, at least in part, by decreasing the clearance of acid from the esophagus and altering 24-hour intraesophageal pH. Esophageal injury is a previously unreported complication of long-term salivary deficiency. 
An immunohistochemical study of sarcomatoid liver carcinomas. Six cases of primary hepatic carcinomas with a significant amount of sarcomatoid elements were examined by using immunohistochemical stainings. Four of the six cases were associated with ordinary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one with cholangiocellular carcinoma (CCC), and one with mixed HCC and CCC. Alpha-fetoprotein and alpha-1-antitrypsin were negative in sarcomatoid cells of all cases; vimentin stained positively in sarcomatoid tumor cells in two of the six cases; and cytokeratin (CK8) was detected in five cases. The CK8 was not detected in tumor cells of two cases of hepatic angiosarcoma, two of metastatic leiomyosarcomas, and one of metastatic fibrosarcoma, although vimentin stained positively in all these true sarcomas. It was concluded that sarcomatoid dedifferentiation of liver carcinomas might derive from both HCC and CCC. In addition CK8 might be an excellent marker to make a differential diagnosis of sarcomatoid cancers from true metastatic or primary sarcomas of the liver. 
Outcome after emergency surgery for cancer of the large intestine. The data for 77 patients with colorectal cancer who underwent emergency surgery for acute intestinal obstruction (57 patients) or perforation (20 patients) within 24 h of admission were evaluated. The patients were older and had more advanced disease than patients undergoing elective surgery for colorectal cancer. Emergency surgery for carcinoma of the right colon consisted of primary resection in 95 per cent of cases and was followed by a 28 per cent mortality rate. Perforated tumours of the left colon and rectum were managed by primary resection in 82 per cent of cases with a 22 per cent mortality rate. In contrast, obstructing tumours of the left colon and rectum were treated by primary resection in 38 per cent of cases with a 6 per cent mortality rate, and by primary decompression in 62 per cent of cases with a 25 per cent mortality rate. The overall postoperative mortality rate was 23 per cent and increased with advanced tumour disease, perforation and peritonitis. Cardiac decompensation and intraabdominal sepsis were the major causes of death. Although the long-term survival rate following emergency surgery was worse than after elective surgery, improvements in outcome should be achieved by better management of the initial emergency situation. 
Pain threshold levels and coping strategies among patients who have chest pain and normal coronary arteries. Patients with noncardiac chest pain (NCCP) tend to show lower pain threshold levels for esophageal balloon distention than do patients with other painful gastrointestinal disorders and healthy controls. The NCCP patients also report greater usage of negative pain-coping strategies, less ability to perform specific behaviors to decrease pain, and higher levels of clinical pain than do other patient and healthy control groups. Behavioral treatments produce significant decreases in pain and disruption of daily activities. Further effort is needed, however, to develop treatments for NCCP that are based on knowledge of the behavioral manifestations of this disorder and the afferent mechanisms involved in perception of visceral pain. 
Acute venous thrombosis. Therapeutic choices for superficial and deep veins. Superficial thrombophlebitis is common in varicose veins or veins that have undergone trauma from catheters or intravenous medications. Pain and tenderness, warmth, and erythema are diagnostic features. A compression bandage and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent are often all that is required for treatment. Deep vein thrombosis occurs in veins beneath the deep fascia of the leg or in the pelvis or abdomen. It is often asymptomatic but must be treated to prevent pulmonary embolization and postthrombotic syndrome. Standard therapy is administration of heparin sodium for 5 days, followed by tapering and discontinuation. Warfarin sodium (Coumadin, Panwarfin, Sofarin) is sometimes given simultaneously. Longer courses of anti-coagulation therapy are necessary in patients with an ongoing risk of recurrence. 
Cost effectiveness of prophylactic intravenous immune globulin in chronic lymphocytic leukemia [see comment] BACKGROUND. A recent randomized controlled trial of intravenous immune globulin in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hypogammaglobulinemia demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the rate of bacterial infections among patients who received intravenous immune globulin. We used decision-analysis techniques to determine whether prophylactic intravenous immune globulin is likely to result in an overall clinical benefit to patients who receive this treatment and to examine its cost effectiveness. METHODS. We constructed a model to compare two strategies: treatment with intravenous immune globulin at a dose of 400 mg per kilogram of body weight every three weeks and no immune globulin therapy. Baseline estimates of the efficacy of intravenous immune globulin were derived from the published results of the randomized trial. The costs of treatment, complications, and infections were estimated on the basis of component costs. Health outcomes were measured in terms of gains in quality-adjusted life expectancy. RESULTS. Intravenous immune globulin therapy can result in a loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy when the inconvenience of treatment is taken into account. If the inconvenience of treatment is not considered, therapy results in a gain of 0.8 quality-adjusted days per patient per year of therapy at a cost of $6 million per quality-adjusted life-year gained. CONCLUSIONS. Decision-analysis modeling may be applied to the results of randomized controlled trials to assess the potential clinical and financial effects of adopting the intervention in medical practice. In the case of intravenous immune globulin therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hypogammaglobulinemia, this type of analysis suggests that treatment might not result in improved quality or length of life and that it is extraordinarily expensive in comparison with other treatments generally accepted as cost effective. 
Abnormal perception of visceral pain in response to gastric distension in chronic idiopathic dyspepsia. The irritable stomach syndrome. Sensory and pressure responses to gastric distension were evaluated in 24 consecutive patients suffering from chronic idiopathic dyspepsia and 20 healthy subjects. A latex balloon was placed in the proximal stomach and inflated by increments of 100 ml of air up to a maximal volume of 800 ml. Symptom response and intragastric pressure-volume curve were recorded during the gradual balloon distension. Thirteen of the 24 patients experienced pain at a distension volume less than or equal to 400 ml of air, but only one of the 20 controls (P less than 0.001). Intragastric pressure-volume curves were similar in patients and controls, and in patients with and without abnormal pain threshold, suggesting that a compliance defect was not the cause of the sensory anomaly. Gastric emptying of solids and liquids was measured in 20 of the 24 patients using a dual isotopic technique; psychological status was also evaluated in 18 patients using the Mini-Mult test. The frequency of the sensory anomaly was not different in patients with (7/14) or without (4/6) gastric stasis, but was lower in patients with (5/13) than in those without psychological disturbances (5/5, P less than 0.01). Thus, a primary visceral sensory anomaly, either alone or in conjunction with motility disturbances, can play an important role in chronic idiopathic dyspepsia and must be taken in account for further therapeutic research. 
A study of nonbacterial agents of acute lower respiratory tract infection in Thai children. From January 1986 to December 1987, 596 children less than 5 years of age with lower respiratory tract infection (LRI)--manifested as laryngitis, croup, bronchitis, bronchiolitis, and pneumonia--were studied for evidence of infection with respiratory tract viruses Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydia trachomatis. Of the 596 children in the study, 315 were ambulatory and 281 were hospitalized. Virologic studies included isolation and rapid diagnosis of virus from specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate (NPA) and serologic studies of blood samples. Cultures of NPA for C. trachomatis were performed for children less than 6 months of age who had pneumonia. Of the LRI cases, 45% were associated with viral infections of the respiratory tract and 12.1% were associated with C. trachomatis. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) accounted for 45.2% of infections with viral agents and was associated with acute bronchitis, acute bronchiolitis, and pneumonia. Parainfluenza type 3 virus was the most common virus found in conjunction with laryngitis and croup. The incidence of infections due to RSV peaked in July and August, while that of infections due to parainfluenza viruses peaked in February and March; influenza viruses and adenoviruses were isolated throughout the year. 
Febrile seizure. Caring for patients--and their parents. Management of febrile seizure involves diagnosis and treatment of the underlying cause and assessment of risk factors for recurrence. What should physicians tell anxious parents about this frightening occurrence? Is prophylaxis with anticonvulsant agents appropriate? The authors address these questions and discuss the changing approach to management of febrile seizure. 
Prospective blinded trial of the colonoscopic miss-rate of large colorectal polyps. We prospectively studied the colonoscopic miss-rate of large colorectal polyps in a blinded trial featuring tandem colonoscopy. Sixty-three lesions greater than or equal to 1 cm in size were discovered and none were missed. Confidence intervals of 95% are a miss-rate of 0 to 4.6%. We conclude that less than 5% of large colorectal polyps are missed during the index colonoscopic examination in a well-prepared colon. 
Symptomatic cerebral swelling complicating diabetic ketoacidosis documented by intraventricular pressure monitoring: survival without neurologic sequela. A six-year-old boy developed symptomatic cerebral swelling four hours after the initiation of treatment for newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus complicated by ketoacidosis. Ventriculostomy documented intracranial pressure over a two-day period. Increased intracranial pressure unresponsive to controlled hyperventilation and sedation was treated by administering a diuretic and by drainage via a ventriculostomy. Intracranial pressure monitoring was a useful adjunct in management of this rare, but often lethal, complication of diabetes mellitus. One year later, both school performance and the results of a neurologic examination were normal. 
Predicting left heart failure after a myocardial infarction: a preliminary study of the value of echocardiographic measures of left ventricular filling and wall motion. Heart failure occurs from both systolic and diastolic dysfunction. To determine whether simple Doppler echocardiographic measures of left ventricular filling could improve upon the ability of systolic function to predict heart failure after infarction, patients with acute myocardial infarction were studied within the first 36 hours by Doppler and two-dimensional echocardiography. Forty-eight patients who did not have heart failure before the Doppler echocardiographic study and who did not have myocardial revascularization, moderate or severe mitral regurgitation, or other complications during recovery were monitored for 6 months or to the onset of heart failure (n = 10). The univariate predictors of heart failure were age (p less than 0.05), anterior infarction (p less than 0.05), early diastolic peak filling velocity (p = 0.05), filling velocity with atrial systole (p less than 0.05), the ratio of these velocities (p less than 0.001), the percentage of filling with atrial systole (p less than 0.001), and the wall motion score index (p less than 0.001). However, the only independent predictors of heart failure by use of multivariant stepwise logistic regression analysis were the wall motion score index (p less than 0.05) and either the ratio of early and late peak filling velocities (p less than 0.001) or the percentage of filling with atrial systole (p less than 0.001). The combined use of a measure of systolic function and measures of the relative contribution of atrial systole to ventricular filling were useful predictors in identifying patients likely to develop subsequent heart failure after myocardial infarction. 
Clinical patterns of paediatric urolithiasis. A series of 270 paediatric stone patients was studied retrospectively according to the clinical pattern of urolithiasis (age and sex, stone location, stone analysis, recurrence rate) and aetiology of stone disease (infection, anatomical, metabolic or idiopathic). Infection stones occurred earliest and more commonly in males and were usually upper tract struvite calculi related to Proteus infection. Anatomical stones were most commonly associated with pelviureteric junction (PUJ) obstruction and had a high recurrence rate, despite surgical correction of obstruction. Idiopathic stones most resembled those found in adult urolithiasis by virtue of occurring latest, being sited in the ureter more often and being more frequently composed of calcium oxalate. Metabolic stones were most frequently calcium phosphate or cystine and virtually all were renal. They comprised the smallest group but had the highest recurrence rate. 
Desflurane is a trigger of malignant hyperthermia in susceptible swine. Desflurane (difluoromethyl 1-fluoro 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl ether: CF2-H-O-CFH-CF3) is a potent inhalation anesthetic agent being investigated for possible clinical use. The authors examined the effects of this agent on normal swine and those from a special breeding program that were considered purebred for susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia (MH). Animals were exposed to 1 or 2 MAC or both doses of desflurane and observed for changes in end-tidal CO2, arterial blood gases, lactate, catecholamines, core temperature, blood pressure, and heart rate. All normal swine tolerated exposure to desflurane without clinical signs of MH, but significant changes in heart rate and blood pressure were noted. In contrast, of six MH susceptible swine tested, two had unequivocal MH reactions to deflurane, defined by significant increases of end-tidal CO2 (greater than 50 mmHg), an increase in PaCO2 (greater than 70 mmHg), a decrease in blood pH (less than 7.30), an increase in blood lactate concentration, and an increase in core temperature. Two other susceptible swine showed equivocal signs of MH but not until desflurane had been administered for 40-60 min. Finally, two other susceptible swine showed no signs of MH after 60 min of exposure to 2 MAC desflurane. These latter four animals all developed episodes of MH immediately after intravenous succinylcholine (2 mg/kg). The increased PaCO2, blood lactate concentrations, and temperature, and the decrease in pH induced by desflurane, were successfully treated with dantrolene and supportive measures. All surviving animals were biopsied 1 to 2 weeks after the exposure to desflurane for in vitro contracture testing to confirm MH susceptibility. 
Improved specificity of myocardial thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography in patients with left bundle branch block by dipyridamole. Reduced septal uptake of thallium-201 during exercise is frequently observed in patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB) and normal coronary arteries. This may reflect normal coronary autoregulation in response to lower septal oxygen demand; thus, dipyridamole, which uniformly exploits flow reserve, would be more accurate for diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD). Sixteen patients with LBBB underwent exercise and dipyridamole thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography and coronary angiography within 3 months. Sensitivity for detection of left anterior descending CAD (greater than 50% stenosis) was 0.83 for exercise and 1.00 for dipyridamole. Specificity was 0.30 (visual) or 0.20 (quantitative analysis) for exercise and 0.80 (visual) or 0.90 (quantitative) for dipyridamole (p less than 0.05). Dipyridamole combined with quantitative analysis also improved specificity of CAD detection overall (p less than 0.01). These data demonstrate that pharmacologic vasodilation is more accurate than exercise when diagnosing CAD by myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in patients with LBBB. 
Depression and chronic fatigue in the patient with chronic pain. Chronic benign pain is commonly associated with chronic fatigue and depression. Depression and chronic fatigue syndrome are also associated with each other and often include pain. Psychologic factors are prominent in these conditions, and they may share neurobiologic factors as well. Management requires separately addressing each component of patients' distress and usually includes physical rehabilitation, education, administration of nonhabituating medications and often counseling. Depression may be a favorable prognostic sign, as it suggests a treatable condition and provides incentive for recovery. 
Prognostic factors in papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. In a retrospective study of 119 patients, followed for 1 to 30 years after treatment of a papillary carcinoma of the thyroid, the authors searched for possible prognostic factors of the risk of recurrence. Microcarcinomas, anaplastic tumors and Hurthle cell carcinomas were excluded from the study. In a univariate analysis, age (greater than 45 years), sex (male), loss of histologic differentiation, size (greater than 3 cm), presence of carcinomatous lymphangitis, extrathyroid extension, and presence of metastasis at diagnosis were associated with a higher recurrence rate; type of growth and multifocality were not significant. In a multivariate analysis (logistic regression), age, size, and carcinomatous lymphangitis were significant predictors for women, whereas metastasis at diagnosis and cystic growth were significant for men. 
Local thrombin synthesis and fibrin formation in an in vitro thrombosis model result in platelet recruitment and thrombus stabilization on collagen in heparinized blood The role of the local synthesis of thrombin in platelet recruitment and thrombus stabilization in heparinized blood was examined in vitro. Mural thrombosis was visualized and measured in a thin, rectangular, collagen-coated capillary under controlled rheological conditions by using fluorescence digital videomicroscopy and fluorescence microphotometry. Thrombin activity was inhibited in heparinized blood by the synthetic competitive inhibitor, D-phenylalanyl-L-prolyl-L-arginyl chloromethylketone (FPRCH2Cl), resulting in a marked reduction in the rate of platelet accumulation on collagen surfaces, indicating a role for thrombin in platelet recruitment. Similar although lesser effects were observed by reducing thrombin synthesis with antibodies to factors II and X. To decouple the role of thrombin in platelet recruitment by direct stimulation of platelet activity from its role in thrombus stabilization via fibrin formation, thrombosis was measured in heparinized blood treated with the tetrapeptide glycyl-prolyl-arginyl-proline, which inhibits fibrin monomer assembly into fibrin. The ultimate level but not the initial rate of platelet accumulation was reduced markedly, indicating a role for fibrin in thrombus stabilization against hemodynamic forces. Scanning electron micrographs demonstrated fibrin stands in the heparinized control samples but not in the heparinized samples with glycyl-prolyl-arginyl-proline. These results demonstrate a role for the local action of thrombin synthesized on the surfaces of thrombi even under conditions when the thrombin exerts no bulk effect, such as under heparin anticoagulation. Furthermore, this role appears to be a result of both platelet recruitment and thrombus stabilization. 
Correlation between molecular and clinical events in the evolution of chronic myelocytic leukemia to blast crisis. A patient with typical Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1)-positive chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) was studied during sequential phases of disease: (1) initial chronic phase; (2) myeloid blast crisis; (3) second chronic phase; and (4) accelerated disease. A point mutation in the coding sequence of the p53 gene first appeared concomitantly with the blast crisis and then disappeared with the re-establishment of a second chronic phase. The chromosomal concomitant of the molecular alteration was a deletion of 17p. These observations suggest that abnormalities of the p53 anti-oncogene are temporally related to the clinical progression of some cases of CML and are probably responsible for the development of blast crisis in these cases. 
Detection of silent myocardial ischemia in diabetes mellitus. The prevalence of silent myocardial ischemia and its relation to autonomic dysfunction and pain threshold was studied in 58 men with diabetes mellitus and without cardiac symptoms. All patients underwent 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring and exercise testing after assessment of their autonomic function and pain threshold. Silent myocardial ischemia, defined as greater than or equal to 1 mm of ST-segment depression on either exercise testing or ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, was corroborated by exercise-induced reversible defect(s) on tomographic thallium scintigraphy. Autonomic function was assessed by heart rate response to: (1) Valsalva maneuver, (2) deep breathing, and (3) upright posture, as well as by diastolic blood pressure response to sustained handgrip and systolic blood pressure response to upright posture. Autonomic dysfunction was defined as greater than or equal to 2 abnormal responses. Pain threshold measurements were performed using electrical cutaneous stimulation of both forearms. Of the 58 diabetic patients, 21 were found to have autonomic dysfunction (36%). Silent myocardial ischemia was detected in 10 patients (17%), and was significantly more frequent in patients with than without autonomic dysfunction (38 vs 5%, p = 0.003). There was no difference in the electrical pain threshold or tolerance in subjects with and without silent myocardial ischemia. It is concluded that silent myocardial ischemia in asymptomatic diabetic men occurs frequently and in association with autonomic dysfunction, suggesting that diabetic neuropathy may be implicated in the mechanism of silent myocardial ischemia. 
Use of prophylactic otic drops after tympanostomy tube insertion. In a 1-year prospective study, 60 patients with chronic serous otitis media underwent bilateral tympanocentesis with tube insertion. The right ear was treated with dexapolyspectran (a solution consisting of polymyxin B sulfate, neomycin sulfate, sulfonamide, and hydrocortisone) intraoperatively and for 72 hours afterward, and the left ear served as the control. All patients were followed up at weekly intervals for the first month. Five (8.3%) out of 60 experimental ears had purulent otorrhea within the first 14 days after surgery, compared with eight (13.3%) out of 60 control ears. Statistical analysis showed no difference between the two groups. 
Pancreatic islet cell carcinoma with hypercalcemia: complete remission 5 years after surgical excision and chemotherapy. A 45-yr-old man who presented with hypercalcemia was found to have an abdominal mass that was a pancreatic islet cell carcinoma. Although clinical features were suggestive of primary hyperparathyroidism, his parathyroid hormone level was not elevated. The patient underwent a radical resection of the pancreatic neoplasm which was situated in the tail of the gland. After surgery, the serum calcium fell within the normal range, suggesting that the tumor was responsible for production of a parathyroid hormone-like substance. Because of malignant histologic features of the lesion, a chemotherapeutic regimen including 5-fluorouracil and streptozotocin was indicated. Five years later, the tumor has remained in total remission. 
Rapid detection of the A----G(8344) mutation of mtDNA in Italian families with myoclonus epilepsy and ragged-red fibers (MERRF). We devised a rapid PCR-based method to screen for an A----G transition at nucleotide 8344 of the human mitochondrial tRNA(Lys) gene, which was recently reported, by Shoffner and co-workers, to be associated with myoclonus epilepsy and ragged-red fibers (MERRF), a maternally transmitted mitochondrial encephalomyopathy (Shoffner et al. 1990). We confirmed this association in five of seven Italian MERRF pedigrees. The mutation was specific for the MERRF trait, because it was never found in mtDNA of non-MERRF individuals, including 14 normal and 110 diseased controls. Our study corroborates the idea that the A----G(8344) mutation is the most frequent and widespread genetic cause of MERRF. 
"Ex vivo" release of eicosanoid from human brain tissue: its relevance in the development of brain edema. The specific mechanism underlying the genesis of vasogenic brain edema is still debated: the role of arachidonic acid is considered extremely important, as it is a possible activator of self-maintaining reactions enhancing the release of vasoactive and cytotoxic compounds. The relationship between arachidonic acid metabolism and brain edema has been studied primarily in brain tissue samples or in the extracellular fluid, whereas the residual capacity of perilesional tissue to synthesize and release eicosanoids has not been investigated. In the present study, perilesional samples of brain tissue were available from 4 patients operated on for brain metastasis, from 8 patients who had malignant neuroepithelial tumors, from 4 with meningiomas, and from 5 with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A brain edema index was calculated from the preoperative computed tomographic scan. The "ex vivo" method allowed determination of the residual capacity of endogenous arachidonic acid metabolism. The edema index is significantly higher in patients with brain metastasis (6.5 +/- 0.8) and neuroepithelial tumors (3.6 +/- 0.2) than in those with meningiomas (1.5 +/- 0.06), subarachnoid hemorrhage (1.7 +/- 0.18), and in controls. In patients with metastatic and neuroepithelial tumors there is a significant correlation between peritumoral brain edema and the capacity to synthesize leukotriene C4 (P less than 0.05); the capacity to synthesize leukotriene C4 is also significantly elevated after subarachnoid hemorrhage (13.91 +/- 2.6 ng/ml of incubation medium) when compared with control cases (5.56 +/- 0.91). The capacity to synthesize prostacyclin is significantly higher in patients with brain metastasis than in those with neuroepithelial tumors and meningiomas (P less than 0.05). 
Pentoxifylline restores intestinal microvascular blood flow during resuscitated hemorrhagic shock. We studied the intestinal microvascular blood flow responses to hemorrhage and resuscitation with pentoxifylline by in vivo video microscopy. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were hemorrhaged to 50% of baseline mean arterial pressure for 45 minutes and then blindly randomized to receive pentoxifylline (25 mg/kg bolus + 0.2 mg/kg/minute) or an equivalent volume of saline plus return of shed blood and an additional bled volume of Ringer's lactate solution. Hemorrhage caused intestinal microvascular blood flow to decrease to 10% to 15% of baseline values. In the control group, resuscitation restored cardiac output and mean arterial pressure to baseline values, but intestinal microvascular blood flow remained at 30% of baseline values. In contrast, addition of pentoxifylline to the resuscitation regimen resulted in an immediate hyperemic response with an increase in intestinal microvascular blood flow to significantly greater than baseline values followed by return to baseline. Arteriolar dilation was not responsible for the improvement in flow implicating improved flow dynamics between erythrocytes, granulocytes, and vascular endothelia within the microcirculation. We conclude that addition of pentoxifylline to resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock restores intestinal microvascular blood flow. 
The acute and chronic antihypertensive effects of ketanserin cannot be explained by blockade of vascular serotonin, type 2, receptors or alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. The mechanism underlying the antihypertensive effect of acute and chronic administration of ketanserin was investigated in eight hypertensive patients. Intrabrachial artery infusions of serotonin and the selective alpha 1-adrenergic receptor agonist methoxamine were given before and 1 hour after a single oral dose of 20 mg ketanserin and after 4 weeks of treatment with 20 to 40 mg twice daily. Blood pressure was reduced by ketanserin both after the initial dose (p less than 0.01) and after 4 weeks of treatment (p less than 0.01). During placebo, serotonin, 1 ng/kg/min, increased forearm blood flow by 51% +/- 9% (p less than 0.01), whereas the highest dose induced a decrease in flow (-33% +/- 6%; p less than 0.01). Methoxamine elicited a vasoconstriction (p less than 0.001). These effects of serotonin and methoxamine were not influenced by either the initial dose of ketanserin or after 4 weeks of treatment. It is concluded that serotonin cannot be considered a general endogenous pressor agent in these patients. The antihypertensive effects of ketanserin cannot be attributed to either vascular alpha 1-receptor or serotonin, type 2, receptor blockade. 
Liver transplantation after paracetamol overdose. OBJECTIVE--To evaluate the role of liver transplantation after paracetamol overdose. DESIGN--Prospective study of consecutive candidates for transplantation and performance of transplantation over 18 months. SETTING--Liver unit, King's College Hospital, London. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Fulfilment of indicators of poor prognosis, selection for transplantation, transplantation, survival. RESULTS--30 of 37 patients considered to have a reasonable prognosis with intensive medical care survived. Of 14 of 29 patients considered to have a very poor prognosis and registered for urgent liver transplantation, six received liver transplants, four of whom survived, while seven died and one survived without a transplant. Three of 15 patients with poor prognostic indicators but not selected for transplantation survived. CONCLUSION--Liver transplantation will have a definite but limited role in the management of fulminant hepatic failure induced by paracetamol. 
The perils of Pauline: visual loss in a tippler [clinical conference] A 31-year-old alcoholic woman who smoked had subacute visual loss. She was treated for tobacco-alcohol amblyopia with subsequent improvement in vision. 
Lack of impact of early antibiotic therapy for streptococcal pharyngitis on recurrence rates. To determine whether recurrence rates for group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal (GABHS) pharyngitis are related to the time of initiation of antibiotic therapy, we randomly assigned 113 patients with GABHS pharyngitis either to a group that began a 10-day course of penicillin V at the time of diagnosis or to a group that began the same antibiotic regimen after a dealy of 48 hours. Follow-up throat culture specimens were obtained 4 days, 2 months, and 4 months after the completion of antibiotic therapy, as well as during any interim episodes of acute pharyngitis. Serotyping of all GABHS isolates was performed to distinguish between recurrences with homologous serotypes and new acquisitions with heterologous serotypes. There was no significant difference between the two treatment groups in age, gender, duration of illness before enrollment in the study, initial clinical presentation, or compliance. Of the 50 patients in the immediate-treatment group, 6 (12%) had homologous serotypes of GABHS isolated on one of the follow-up throat cultures. Of the 63 patients in the delayed-treatment group, 9 (14%) had homologous serotypes of GABHS isolated on one of the follow-up throat cultures. These data indicate that a 48-hour delay in the initiation of penicillin therapy for GABHS pharyngitis does not reduce the recurrence rate. 
Endocrine and reproductive dysfunction following fractionated total body irradiation in adults. The endocrine and reproductive sequelae of total body irradiation for haematological malignancy have been studied in 21 patients (11 male) who were treated with 10 Gy in five fractions or 12 or 13.2 Gy in six fractions over 3 days. Eighteen patients (eight male) aged 16-49 years underwent dynamic tests of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis with insulin hypoglycaemia, thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH) and gonadotrophin releasing hormone stimulation and basal measurement of prolactin, sex steroids and thyroid hormones. Growth hormone responses (mean peak 64 +/- 36 mU/l, range 21-146 mU/l) and cortisol responses (mean peak 831 +/- 122 nmol/l, range 626-1105 nmol/l) were all within the normal range. Two patients had minimally elevated serum prolactin levels (445 and 588 mU/l, normal less than 350 mU/l). Serum thyroxine levels (57-133 nmol/l) were normal but six patients had elevated basal thyrotrophin (TSH) levels (6-9 mU/l) and seven had an exaggerated TSH response to thyrotrophin releasing hormone, indicating radiation-induced damage to the thyroid. Amenorrhea developed within 3 months of irradiation in all females and oestradiol levels were low, at 37-108 pmol/l (mean 58 +/- 22 pmol/l). Severe oligospermia or azoospermia was noted in men tested 5-70 months after irradiation and testicular volume was below the normal adult range in five of seven men assessed. Serum testosterone levels (12.4-35 nmol/l) were normal. Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone-stimulated gonadotrophin levels were elevated in all patients. However, two men have fathered two children each; one has refused semen analysis, but the other has a sperm count of 7 x 10(6)/ml (60 per cent motile, 20 per cent abnormal forms) 70 months after irradiation. When given by the above fractionated regimens, the endocrine sequelae of total body irradiation are limited to gonadal failure requiring oestrogen replacement in women and severe impairment of fertility in men. Subclinical thyroid dysfunction has been seen in 39 per cent of patients there is no evidence of direct damage to the hypothalamic pituitary axis. 
Steroid-responsive tubular aggregate myopathy. We report a man with an acute myalgia/cramp syndrome and tubular aggregates on his muscle biopsy. He was placed on prednisone and was found to be exquisitely sensitive to the drug, with changes of only 5 mg precipitating recurrence of symptoms. He was eventually tapered off all steroids, without symptoms, and repeat biopsy showed no tubular aggregates. We recommend similar patients be given a trial of high-dose steroids. 
Does racial variation in risk factors explain black-white differences in the incidence of hypertensive end-stage renal disease? Prospectively collected data on the incidence of treated hypertensive end-stage renal disease (HT-ESRD) were analyzed to investigate whether the higher rate of HT-ESRD in blacks compared with whites is due to differences in putative ESRD risk factors. The overall age-adjusted relative risks of HT-ESRD for black compared with white residents in the Maryland Regional ESRD Registry (Network 31) Catchment Area were 7.4 (95% confidence interval, 5.9 to 9.4) and 9.9 (95% confidence interval, 7.4 to 13.1) for men and women, respectively. In a population level analysis, race-specific HT-ESRD incidence rates in the black and white populations of 13 regions in Network 31 were related to the prevalence of putative ESRD risk factors in those populations. The latter were estimated from the 1981-1982 Maryland Statewide Household Hypertension Survey. Black populations had a 5.6-fold (95% confidence interval, 3.9 to 8.1) higher unadjusted incidence of HT-ESRD than white populations. The HT-ESRD incidence in a population was also directly related to that population's prevalence of hypertension, severe hypertension, and diabetes mellitus and inversely related to measures of socioeconomic status and mean age at diagnosis of hypertension. When adjusted simultaneously for age, prevalence of hypertension, severe hypertension, diabetes, and level of education, the risk of HT-ESRD was still 4.5 (95% confidence interval, 3.2 to 6.2) times higher for black compared with white populations. Our findings failed to support the hypothesis that race-related differences in the prevalence, severity, or age at onset of hypertension, in the prevalence of diabetes or in socioeconomic status, explain the well-recognized black-white differences in the HT-ESRD incidence. 
The prevalence of oral lesions in HIV-infected homosexual and bisexual men: three San Francisco epidemiological cohorts. To establish the prevalence of HIV-related oral lesions, we performed oral examinations of members of three San Francisco epidemiological cohorts of homosexual and bisexual men over a 3-year period. Hairy leukoplakia, pseudomembranous and erythematous candidiasis, angular cheilitis, Kaposi's sarcoma, and oral ulcers were more common in HIV-infected subjects than in HIV-negative subjects. Among HIV-infected individuals, hairy leukoplakia was the most common lesion [20.4%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 17.5-23.3%] and pseudomembranous candidiasis was the next most common (5.8%, 95% CI 4.1-7.5%). Hairy leukoplakia, pseudomembranous candidiasis, angular cheilitis and Kaposi's sarcoma were significantly more common in patients with lower CD4 lymphocyte counts (P less than 0.05). The prevalence of erythematous candidiasis and Kaposi's sarcoma increased during the 3-year period. Careful oral examinations may identify infected patients and provide suggestive information concerning their immune status. 
The effect of streptokinase on chest pain in acute myocardial infarction. Treatment with intravenous streptokinase is known to restore blood flow to the ischaemic myocardium in patients with acute myocardial infarction. However, little is known about its effect on chest pain. In a retrospective cohort study, 76 patients treated with streptokinase were compared to 76 patients not treated with streptokinase. All patients had acute myocardial infarction and less than 6 h of cardiac symptoms. Patients treated with streptokinase had a significantly lower need for nicomorphine (median 20 mg) than patients not treated with streptokinase (median 41 mg). Correspondingly, the median duration (3.5 h) of pain was reduced significantly in patients treated with streptokinase compared to patients not treated (24 h). We conclude that intravenous streptokinase given in the acute phase of myocardial infarction is effective in reducing the duration of cardiac chest pain. 
Cure of early-stage Hodgkin's disease with subtotal nodal irradiation. Ninety-four consecutive patients with Stage I or II Hodgkin's disease who presented supradiaphragmatically were treated with radiation therapy alone at the Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology from January 1978 through December 1986. Fifty-two patients (55%) were staged pathologically, and 42 (45%) were staged clinically. The latter included lymphangiography and/or abdominal computed tomographic scan. Most patients with B symptoms and/or bulky disease were excluded from this series. Seventy-four patients were treated with subtotal nodal irradiation (mantle and periaortic fields). The spleen was treated if the patient had not undergone splenectomy. Twenty patients received mantle irradiation only. No patient received total nodal irradiation. All patients had an initial complete response. With a minimum follow-up of 7 months (median, 7.7 years; seven patients died before 3 years of follow-up, but all other patients had at least 3 years of follow-up), 81 patients (86%) remained disease-free. Six of 52 (12%) of the pathologically staged group had a relapse, as did seven of 42 (17%) of the clinically staged group (P = 0.68). Eight of 57 Stage I patients versus five of 37 Stage II patients had a relapse (P greater than 0.99). Analysis of disease-free survival by age, histologic findings, sex, and sites of involvement did not predict relapse. The pelvis was the most common site of failure (nine patients, 10%). However, only three patients (3%) failed in the pelvis alone. These results indicate that patients who, after adequate clinical staging with selective use of staging laparotomy, are found to have Stage I and II Hodgkin's disease may be treated with subtotal nodal irradiation with a high rate of cure. 
Prolonged hemorrhagic shock does not impair regeneration of plasma coagulant masses in the rabbit. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Twelve adult male albino rabbits were assigned alternately to normotensive and hypotensive groups to assess the effect of hypovolemic shock on spontaneous correction of dilutional coagulopathy. All animals underwent dilutional exchange transfusion with 200 mL of rabbit RBCs and 5% human albumin. Half the animals were then acutely hemorrhaged and subsequent aliquots of blood removed as needed to maintain the mean arterial pressure at 40 mm Hg. RESULTS: By 6 hr after production of dilutional coagulopathy, masses and plasma concentrations of fibrinogen and Factor II had increased modestly but significantly, and Factor VII mass and concentration and in vitro coagulation had returned almost to normal; plasma volume was unchanged in the normotensive animals. In the hypovolemic shock animals, where coagulant mass regeneration was as rapid as in the normotensive animals, a doubling of total plasma volume (p less than .01) prevented the concentrations of fibrinogen and Factor II, and hence the coagulation times, from improving. CONCLUSIONS: Dilutional coagulopathy corrects spontaneously within hours. Normovolemic shock prolongs dilutional coagulopathy not by impairment of factor regeneration but because of further (internal) dilution due to plasma expansion. Rapid correction of dilutional coagulopathy is likely to necessitate cryoprecipitate administration. 
Genetics of colon cancer. Strikingly rapid advances in the identification of genetic events that are important in colonic carcinogenesis have been made in the past several years. Specific inherited (adenomatous polyposis coli gene) and acquired (ras gene point mutations; c-myc gene amplification; allelic deletion at specific sites on chromosomes 5, 17, and 18) genetic abnormalities appear to be capable of mediating steps in the progression from normal to malignant colonic mucosa. Understanding these genetic factors and how they influence cellular function will have a profound effect on medical practice. High-risk populations will be (and are being) identified by genetic markers, thus allowing prevention and screening to be more precisely targeted to the population at risk; intervention strategies will be designed on the basis of the known cellular defects of neoplastic colonic mucosa; and new molecular preventive and therapeutic approaches can be developed. 
Rare intrathoracic complications in acute pancreatitis. Ascites and pleural effusions may complicate pancreatitis but pericarditis with pericardial effusion and tamponade is rare and necrosis of mediastinal fat has not been described before. All these complications occurred in the case reported here. 
Receptors for tumor necrosis factor on neoplastic B cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia are expressed in vitro but not in vivo. Recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is a cytokine that induces proliferation of neoplastic B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). To gain insight into the mechanisms involved in regulating TNF responsiveness, we have examined TNF receptor expression on neoplastic B-CLL cells. We have demonstrated that freshly isolated neoplastic B cells from patients with CLL did not express TNF receptors. After 1 day of incubation in culture medium, TNF receptors were detectable in the range of 540 to 1,500/cell. Kinetic experiments revealed that receptor expression was half-maximal after 3 hours of culturing and required de novo protein synthesis. The Scatchard plots of TNF-alpha binding indicated a single set of high-affinity TNF receptors with a dissociation constant of 70 pmol/L. TNF receptor expression in vitro was found in all examined cases. All cytokines tested, with the exception of IL-2, did not influence the expression of TNF receptors. The TNF receptor expression is enhanced in B-CLL cells cultured in the presence of interleukin-2 when compared with the receptor expression of cells cultured in medium alone. Our data suggest that neoplastic B-CLL cells in patients with stable disease do not express TNF receptors in vivo and that an unknown mechanism suppressing TNF receptor expression in vivo may play a role in growth regulation of neoplastic B cells. 
Balloon angioplasty for recurrent coarctation of aorta. Immediate and long-term results BACKGROUND. As angioplasty techniques have been refined and larger low-profile balloons developed, a nonsurgical approach to recoarctation has become available. Several reports have documented both the efficacy and safety of this procedure. However, there are little data available on the long-term follow-up of these patients. This report details the initial results and long-term evaluation of both the relief of obstruction and the presence of hypertension after balloon angioplasty for recurrent coarctation. METHODS AND RESULTS. Balloon angioplasty for recurrent coarctation of the aorta was performed 29 times in 26 patients at a median age of 4 years and 9 months (range, 4 months to 29 years), with eight patients less than 1 year old. Initial surgical techniques were end-to-end anastomosis in 11 patients, subclavian flap aortoplasty in 11 patients, and patch aortoplasty in four patients. Angioplasty was performed at a median interval of 2 years and 7 months (range, 4 months to 23 years) after surgery. Mean peak systolic pressure difference across the coarctation decreased from 40.0 +/- 16.8 to 10.3 +/- 9.5 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) after the initial angioplasty, and mean diameter of the aortic lumen at the coarctation site increased from 5.8 +/- 3.5 to 9.0 +/- 4.3 mm (p less than 0.05). There was no mortality, and only one patient developed an aneurysm (4%). Three patients underwent repeat angioplasty for a pressure difference of more than 20 mm Hg. Long-term follow-up is available on 24 of 26 patients with a mean follow-up of 42 +/- 24 months (range, 12-88 months). Mean peak systolic pressure difference across the area of coarctation decreased from 40.3 +/- 17.4 before angioplasty to 8.5 +/- 8.3 mm Hg after final angioplasty (p less than 0.05) and 7.5 +/- 7.5 mm Hg at follow-up. Mean peak systolic blood pressure in the upper extremities decreased from 133.1 +/- 14.9 before angioplasty to 111.1 +/- 14.1 mm Hg at long-term follow-up (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. Balloon angioplasty should be considered the treatment of choice for relief of recurrent aortic coarctation. 
Syringomyelia secondary to congenital intraspinal lipoma. Preoperative evaluation using serial magnetic resonance imaging was performed on an infant with lumbosacral lipoma. Syrinx formation arising just above the lipoma was observed in conjunction with rapid growth of the lipoma. Definite shrinkage of syringomyelia was obtained after radical excision of the lipoma. The syrinx formation was possibly caused by compression from the extramedullary lipoma. 
Loss of the endothelin signal pathway in C6 rat glioma cells persistently infected with measles virus. Endothelin 1 causes a strong Ca2+ signal in C6 rat glioma cells as measured by fura-2 fluorescence. This endothelin 1-induced Ca2+ signal was not observed when the cells were persistently infected with a measles virus strain of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE, strain Lec). Binding of 125I-labeled endothelin 1 to the C6/SSPE cells was less than 5% of the binding to the C6 control cells, suggesting that the impairment in signal transduction was due to a loss of binding sites for endothelin 1. Treatment of the C6/SSPE cells with measles antiserum resulted in the loss of expression of viral proteins located in the membrane as well as inside the cells (antigenic modulation), but it restored neither the endothelin 1-induced Ca2+ rise nor the 125I-endothelin 1 binding. Cocultivation of uninfected C6 cells with C6/SSPE cells (9:1 ratio) resulting in contact-mediated transmission of measles virus showed that the 125I-endothelin 1 binding activity was gradually lost as a consequence of persistent virus infection. 
Cerebrovascular accidents complicating pregnancy and the puerperium. The decreasing incidence of direct causes of maternal death over the past half century has led to a heightened awareness of nonobstetric factors responsible for maternal mortality. For example, cerebrovascular accidents are an important nonobstetric cause of maternal morbidity and mortality. During the 6.5-year period from 1984 to mid-1990, we encountered 15 women in whom pregnancy or the puerperium was complicated by an acute cerebrovascular accident. Six of these women had hemorrhagic strokes and nine had ischemic strokes. During this same time, approximately 90,000 women were delivered at Parkland Memorial Hospital, and thus the incidence of stroke was about one in 6000 pregnancies. Chronic hypertension or preeclampsia was causative in three cases of hemorrhagic stroke. It is important that 20% of the women died as a result of stroke, and of the 12 survivors, 40% have residual neurologic deficits. An aggressive work-up to define the etiology of stroke is necessary in order to implement cause-specific management, with subsequent reduction in morbidity and mortality. 
Clinical results of mitral valve replacement with and without preservation of the posterior mitral valve leaflet and subvalvular apparatus. In this study we attempted to investigate the importance of posterior leaflet preservation during mitral valve replacement (MVR). One hundred and forty randomly selected patients with isolated mitral insufficiency were studied, half of whom had MVR with preservation of the posterior leaflet (Group I), whereas in the other half conventional MVR was performed, without preservation of the posterior leaflet (Group II). Within these two groups there were no in hospital deaths, but 5 patients in Group II were admitted to the hospital with congestive heart failure and 3 of them died after approximately 6 months. Long term mortality rate was 4.2% in Group II. Ejection fraction (EF) decreased postoperatively from 56% to 50% in Group I (p less than 0.05), and from 59% to 49% in Group II (p less than 0.05). Fifteen patients in each group and aged below 30 with sinus rhythm and in the first functional capacity according to the New York Heart Association classification (NYHA) were subjected to exercise study, 18 months after the operation. After exercise EF increased from 47% to 64% in Group I and decreased from 51% to 47% in Group II. These findings suggested that MVR with the preservation of the chordae tendineae can be done with a low morbidity and mortality rate in the early and late postoperative period. 
Platelet-activating factor produces shock, in vivo complement activation, and tissue injury in mice. We previously showed that TNF and endotoxin (LPS) synergize to activate the complement system and produce shock and bowel injury in normal mice. However, C5-deficient mice were protected from these adverse effects. In this study, we show that in mice, platelet-activating factor (PAF) antagonist prevents TNF- and LPS-induced complement activation, bowel injury, and death, indicating that PAF mediates the actions of TNF and LPS. We then examined the role of the complement system in PAF-induced shock and tissue injury. We found that 1) PAF (3 micrograms/kg) induces shock, hemoconcentration, bowel necrosis, and death in normal mice, whereas C5-deficient mice are protected from these effects. (Protection was abrogated when the dose of PAF was raised to 5 micrograms/kg.) Furthermore, when C5-deficient mice were reconstituted with normal serum, they also developed shock, bowel injury, and death in response to PAF. Thus, C5 is required for PAF to induce injury. 2) PAF activates the complement system in vivo, but not in vitro. The mechanism of complement activation by PAF is unclear. Inasmuch as PAF stimulates neutrophils to release protease that may activate the complement system, we examined the effect of neutrophil depletion on PAF-induced injury and complement activation. We found that neutrophil depletion fails to prevent PAF-induced complement activation, although PAF-induced lethality is much reduced. We conclude that PAF causes complement activation, and acts in synergy with active complement fragments to produce shock and tissue injury. Neutrophils probably do not play the pivotal role in PAF-induced complement activation. 
Evaluation of the Graseby PCAS. A clinical and laboratory study. The Graseby patient-controlled analgesia system was evaluated in the laboratory and in clinical use. The problems encountered with eight examples used to treat 510 patients are reported. Laboratory performance revealed the unit to be accurate at infusion volumes of 1 and 2 ml. 
Occupational and industrial toxin exposures and the gastrointestinal tract. Gastrointestinal Toxicology Subcommittee of the American College of Gastroenterology Patient Care Committee. The subcommittee on Gastrointestinal Toxicology of the Patient Care Committee of the American College of Gastroenterology has reviewed potential effects of exposures to occupational and industrial hazards on the gastrointestinal tract, liver and pancreas. This review is presented to 1) share clinical data concerning gastrointestinal toxicology, 2) emphasize the paucity of available information to the practicing clinician, and 3) stimulate basic research interest in this field. 
Necrotizing fasciitis. Ten cases of necrotizing fasciitis are reviewed. Three patients died but only two of these deaths were due to uncontrolled septicaemia. All isolated organisms were sensitive to a combination of piperacillin and ampicillin which we now regard as the initial antibiotic combination of choice. Prompt and aggressive surgical debridement remains the cornerstone of management. 
Breast specimen microcalcifications: radiographic validation and pathologic-radiologic correlation. A prospective analysis of specimens from location and biopsy of mammographically suspect microcalcifications in 108 patients was carried out to determine if microcalcifications were lost during histopathologic processing and the clinical relevance of such loss. Nine hundred sixty-eight paraffin blocks were prepared from 425 gross tissue slices containing calcifications identified at radiography of the specimens. Calcium was apparently lost both during preparation of the blocks (13.6%) and after slide preparation (12.6%), for a total possible loss of 26.2%. All specimens demonstrated calcification histologically. One pathology report was amended because of information obtained after recuts, but all cancers were detected on original slides whether or not calcifications were identified initially. The results indicate that, by following the suggestions offered to ensure adequate histopathologic sampling of calcification seen at mammography, most if not all of the calcification present can be detected on the original slide. 
A cluster of related zinc finger protein genes is deleted in the mouse embryonic lethal mutation tw18. We report that a number of related zinc finger protein genes are closely linked on mouse chromosome 17. At least four of these genes are transcribed in the 8.5-day postcoitum embryo and are deleted in the t complex early acting embryonic lethal mutation tw18. We have evidence that additional finger protein genes are located in this region. These findings demonstrate that related finger protein genes can be clustered in the murine genome and identify genes that may be considered as candidates for the tw18 mutation. 
Remote cortical dysfunction in aphasic stroke patients. We studied the effect of deep-seated left hemispheric lesions on cortical blood flow in 18 right-handed aphasic stroke patients. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured at rest and during the performance of a functional naming test using the two-dimensional xenon-133 inhalation method. Compared with 10 controls, at rest the patients showed regional cortical hypoperfusion in the left frontoparietal region. In the controls, activation patterns from the rest to the test condition involved mainly the left hemisphere areas. In the patients, a lack of blood flow change was observed in several areas that were usually hypoperfused at rest. However, in patients with slight verbal expression disorders there were obvious blood flow increases in other brain regions in both hemispheres. Such cortical functional reorganization and the presence of a remote cortical dysfunction could play a role in the pathophysiology of language disorders. 
In vitro perfused-superfused cat carotid body for physiological and pharmacological studies. An in vitro perfused carotid body preparation was developed to study its chemosensory responses to physiological and pharmacological stimuli. The carotid bifurcation with the carotid body was vascularly isolated and excised from pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized cats. The CB was perfused in a chamber by gravity (80 Torr) with modified Tyrode's solution (N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid-NaOH at pH 7.40) equilibrated at a given Po2 and superfused with the same medium at (Po2 of 20 Torr). The temperature was maintained at 35.5 +/- 0.5 degrees C. The frequency of chemosensory discharges (CD) was recorded from the whole carotid sinus nerve (n = 24), and the responses were tested by repeated interruptions of perfusate flow (SF), perfusion with hypoxic medium, and injections of nicotine and cyanide (0.1 nmol to 1 mumol) and hypercapnic medium. During hyperoxic perfusion, SF resulted in a sigmoidal increase in CD, reaching a maximum that was 23.6 +/- 4.4-fold greater than the basal activity. Restoration of flow returned CD promptly to basal values. After normoxic perfusion, SF led to a similar maximal activity more rapidly, but the duration was shorter. Reduction of the perfusate PO2 (Po2 from 450 Torr to 150, 30, and less than 10 Torr) caused a nonlinear increase in CD. CO2 stimuli (PCo2 38-110 Torr) resulted in a linear increase in CD. Nicotine or cyanide increased CD in a dose-dependent manner. The preparation retained its initial responsiveness for 2-3 h, making extensive experimental studies feasible. 
Evaluation of three oral dosages of ondansetron in the prevention of nausea and emesis associated with cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin chemotherapy. We assessed the antiemetic efficacy and safety of three different oral doses of ondansetron (GR 38032F), a novel serotonin type-3 receptor antagonist, in three consecutive series of 20 breast cancer patients receiving cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-based chemotherapy for the first time. Patients received oral doses of 8 mg, 4 mg, or 1 mg of ondansetron three times daily for 2 days, with the first dose given 30 minutes before the cyclophosphamide infusion. We then evaluated the efficacy of a conventional antiemetic regimen of intravenous lorazepam, metoclopramide, and diphenhydramine given before chemotherapy and 10 mg prochlorperazine given orally twice on study day 1 and three times on study day 2 in a fourth series of 20 patients with comparable characteristics. The number of emetic episodes, assessment of nausea and appetite, and adverse events were recorded throughout the 2-day study period. Pretreatment and posttreatment clinical laboratory data were also collected. No emesis was observed during the 2-day study period in 17 (85%), 13 (65%), and 11 (55%) patients treated with 8-mg, 4-mg, and 1-mg ondansetron doses, respectively, and in seven (35%) patients who received conventional therapy. The incidence and intensity of nausea were lower with increasing doses of ondansetron and were lower than in the conventional group. Ondansetron-related side effects were generally mild and reversible and did not appear to increase in a dose-dependent manner. These effects included headache, stomach cramps, diarrhea, fatigue, and elevated serum transaminase concentrations. One patient who received three 1 mg doses of ondansetron experienced tremors and muscle twitching. Oral ondansetron is an effective and safe antiemetic for patients receiving noncisplatin cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-based chemotherapy, and its antiemetic activity appears to be dose-related. 
Germ cell tumors masquerading as central nervous system sarcoidosis. The diagnosis of central nervous system sarcoidosis is uncertain without typical multisystem involvement. We describe two patients with isolated central nervous system mass lesions whose biopsy results were consistent with sarcoidosis. After a progressive clinical course, they were found to have diencephalic germinomas. Germ cell tumors, in particular, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of central nervous system sarcoidosis as they are potentially treatable, occur in intracranial locations favored by sarcoidosis mass lesions, and may be surrounded by granulomatous inflammation that can be mistaken for the noncaseating granulomas of sarcoidosis. 
Circulating ICAM-1 isoforms: diagnostic prospects for inflammatory and immune disorders. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1, CD54) is an important early marker of immune activation and response. Evidence on its role has come from immunohistological staining of tissues, since no free circulating ICAM-1 has been detected. By means of monoclonal antibodies against ICAM-1 and a sensitive chemiluminescence technique, free circulating ICAM-1 was detected in serum from sixteen healthy young volunteers. The concentrations varied among the subjects. Non-denaturing gel separation methods showed that ICAM-1 circulates in at least three isoforms, the proportions of which also varied. These findings have important implications for the investigation, diagnosis, and therapeutic monitoring of various inflammatory, neoplastic, and immune disorders. 
Biology of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer is the fifth leading cause of death from malignant disease in Western society. Apart from the fortunate few patients who present with a resectable small pancreatic adenocarcinoma, conventional treatment offers no hope of cure and has little palliative value. Over the past two decades major steps have been made in our understanding of the biology of pancreatic growth and neoplasia. This review sets out to explore these advances, firstly in the regulation of normal pancreatic growth, and secondly the mechanism which may be involved in malignant change of the exocrine pancreas. From an understanding of this new biology, new treatment strategies may be possible for patients with pancreatic cancer. 
Microanalysis of bile acid composition in intrahepatic calculi and its etiological significance. Brown pigment stones in the intrahepatic bile ducts were compared with those found in the extrahepatic bile ducts with special reference to the bile acids modified by bacterial intervention, that is, unconjugated, glucuronidated, secondary, and ketonic bile acid fractions. The former showed significantly lower amounts of total bile acids (P less than 0.01) and lower proportions of unconjugated bile acid fraction (P less than 0.01), secondary bile acid fraction (P less than 0.05), and ketonic bile acid fraction (P less than 0.05) to total bile acids than the latter. The discriminant analysis using these bile acid parameters led to complete separation between intrahepatic and extrahepatic stones in the case of brown pigment stones. In contrast, cholesterol stones in the intrahepatic bile ducts showed the bile acid composition close to those found in the extrahepatic ducts and gallbladder. The above data show that the bacterial infection plays a less important role in the formation and ensuing growth of most intrahepatic brown pigment stones than in extrahepatic stones, and that factors other than or in addition to bacterial infection are involved. 
A prospective study of respiratory failure after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta. From June 1960 to September 1990, 1414 patients underwent repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms, of whom 112 (8%) had pulmonary complications requiring respiratory support with tracheostomy; subsequently 45 (40%) died in the hospital. We determined by stepwise logistic regression analysis, in a prospective study of high-risk type I and II thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms repairs, the independent predictors of respiratory failure, defined as respiratory ventilation exceeding 48 hours after operation. In 98 patients studied, 38 (39%) were women, 60 (61%) were men, 54 (55%) had type II thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms, 34 (35%) had aortic dissection, 19 (19%) were nonsmokers, 40 (41%) exsmokers, and 39 (40%) active smokers. Before operation, 55 (56%) had chronic pulmonary disease with respiratory failure developing in 58% (p = 0.0005 versus no chronic pulmonary disease, 10/43, 23%), and of the 26 patients in the lower quarter of forced expiratory volume (1 sec) (FEV1 less than or equal to 1.45 L) respiratory failure developed in 61% (p = 0.035). In-hospital survival was 98% and 83% (p = 0.008), respectively, and cumulative survival at 6 months by Kaplan-Meier analysis was 96% and 80% (p = 0.004, log-rank test), respectively, for patients without respiratory failure (N = 56/98, 57%) and with respiratory failure (N = 42/98, 43%). On univariate analysis, the following were associated with respiratory failure (p less than 0.05): FEV1, FEV1% predicted, FVC, FEF25, FEF25% predicted, FEF25-75, FEF25-75% predicted, PaCO2 Pao2, symptoms, smoking history, chronic pulmonary disease, cryoprecipitate volume, postoperative neuromuscular deficit, cardiac complications, reoperation for bleeding, renal complication, stress ulceration, postoperative creatinine level, postoperative dialysis, and postoperative encephalopathy. The independent predictors of respiratory failure were (p less than 0.05): chronic pulmonary disease, smoking history, cardiac and renal complications. In patients with chronic pulmonary disease, the only independent predictor was FEF25 (p = 0.030). These observations may be of value in selecting patients for elective operation. 
Nonpharmacologic treatment of periodic leg movements in sleep. The effects of a 30-minute stimulation of the dorsiflexors of the feet and toes before bedtime were investigated in eight patients with periodic leg movements in sleep (PLMS). None were taking medications at the time of the investigation. All subjects were treated with the EMS-250 Neuromuscular Stimulator, which has a maximum output per channel of 1.5mA and a frequency of 47Hz. Stimuli were delivered via a pulse train (on for 1.5sec and off for 1.8sec). A single all-night polysomnogram after this stimulation showed that all patients responded to stimulation, with reduction of leg movements from an average pretreatment PLMS index of 44.6 per hour to a posttreatment PLMS index of 14 per hour (p less than .01). Nocturnal leg movements were primarily reduced during the non-REM sleep. Multiple indices of sleep continuity did not change significantly, although there was a trend toward better sleep consolidation. 
Absent or reversed end diastolic flow velocity in the umbilical artery and necrotising enterocolitis. Absent or reversed end diastolic flow (AREDF) velocities in the umbilical artery were identified in 25 high risk pregnancies. In six pregnancies the fetus was abnormal and all but one of these ended in perinatal death. Of the 19 morphologically normal fetuses, three died in utero and there were four neonatal or infant deaths. The mortality rate was 48% for all pregnancies and 37% for those with morphologically normal fetuses. There was a highly significant increased risk for the development of necrotising enterocolitis in these morphologically normal fetuses with AREDF (53%) compared with controls (6%) who did have umbilical artery end diastolic flow velocities in fetal life. There were no significant differences between the matched pairs for parameters of neonatal outcome chosen to reflect neonatal morbidity. These findings demonstrate the close association between AREDF and necrotising enterocolitis that appears to be independent of other variables such as degree of growth retardation, prematurity, and perinatal asphyxia. 
The contributions of interpersonal conflict to chronic pain in the presence or absence of organic pathology. This study investigated the influences of social support and interpersonal conflict on chronic pain in patients with arthritis or with myofascial disorders. Measures of social support, conflict, and pain were drawn from subscales of the McGill Pain Questionnaire, the Multidimensional Pain Inventory, the Family Environment Scale, and the Interpersonal Relationship Inventory. Patients with myofascial disorders reported significantly worse pain (sensory and affective), higher depression scores, more interpersonal conflict, and less support from others than patients with arthritis, but did not differ from them on personality traits. Also, the contributions of conflict to pain were found to depend on the nature of the chronic disorder and on the source of the conflict, i.e., significant other, family, or social network members. For patients with arthritis, less intense pain (sensory and affective) was associated with higher family conflict. Less intense sensory pain in arthritis was also associated with more punishing responses from the significant other to pain. For patients with myofascial disorders, more intense affective pain was associated with higher social network conflict. Social support did not significantly contribute to pain for either group. Thus, chronic painful disorders may differ on the influences that social relationships have on pain. The implications of these differences for treatment are discussed. 
Total avulsion of an osseointegrated screw. The close union achieved between pure grade titanium and healthy bone makes dislocation a rare event. We report the case of the total avulsion of an apparently well-integrated implant from a healthy mastoid bone. 
Uniparental heterodisomy for chromosome 14 in a phenotypically abnormal familial balanced 13/14 Robertsonian translocation carrier. A 9-year-old mentally retarded girl with multiple congenital anomalies was found to carry a balanced 13/14 Robertsonian translocation [45,XX,t(13q14q)] which was also present in her father. Her mother carried a balanced reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 1 and 14 [46,XX,t(1;14) (q32;q32)]. Both of her parents were phenotypically normal. Molecular studies were carried out to determine the parental origin of chromosomes 1, 13, and 14 in the patient. Using probes for D14S13 and D14S22, we could show that the patient inherited both chromosomes 14 from her father and none from her mother. Similar studies using probes for chromosomes 1 (D1S76) and 13 (D13S37) loci showed the presence of both maternal and paternal alleles in the patient. Our findings indicate that paternal uniparental heterodisomy for chromosome 14 most likely accounts for the phenotypic abnormalities observed in our patient. It is suggested that uniparental disomy may be the basis for abnormal development in at least some phenotypically abnormal familial balanced-translocation carriers. 
Sleep difficulties, pain and other correlates. A multiple regression analysis was used with variables relevant to sleeping problems from a large community health survey in South Australia. The variables that were found to be most strongly correlated with sleep problems were, in order of importance, pain, anxiety, age, somatic health and annual household income, all of which accounted for 22% of the variance. Weight problems, depression and sex of the respondent were not so important in this analysis. Arthritis, which often increases with age, appeared to be most strongly associated with pain, explaining in part why sleeping problems increase with age. Anxiety, pain and poor somatic health were most strongly associated with lying awake at night or sleeping badly, and anxiety and pain were most strongly correlated with taking longer to get to sleep. Poor somatic health and anxiety were most strongly associated with waking early, and age and pain were the most important variables in taking tablets to aid sleep. 
Long-term patient-controlled analgesia in children. Three children who received patient-controlled analgesia for periods of up to 41 days are described. In each case patient-controlled analgesia allowed pain control to be achieved in difficult situations. No patient developed tolerance or clinical signs of dependence. This use of long-term patient-controlled analgesia warrants further evaluation. 
Transmission of infectious diseases in outpatient health care settings. Increased provision of health care in outpatient settings and concerns about occupational transmission of infections have focused attention on the risk of transmission of infectious diseases in ambulatory health care settings. In contrast to inpatient nosocomial infections, infections transmitted in outpatient settings are neither systematically monitored nor likely to be detected by routine qi surveillance. To better define the spectrum of such events, we reviewed the literature to identify cases and clusters of infections associated with outpatient health care. In this review, we identified and epidemiologically characterized 53 such reports that occurred from 1961 through 1990. Transmission occurred in general medical offices, clinics, and emergency departments (23); ophthalmologists' offices and clinics (11); dental offices (13); and alternative-care settings (six). Our findings suggest that inpatient infection-control practices should be extended to outpatient health care settings by assigning specific responsibility for infection control and by adapting surveillance methods and prevention measures. 
Staphylococcus epidermidis induces complement activation, tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1, a shock-like state and tissue injury in rabbits without endotoxemia. Comparison to Escherichia coli. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and IL-1 are thought to mediate many of the pathophysiologic changes of endotoxemia and Gram-negative bacteremia. In these studies, heat-killed Staphylococcus epidermidis were infused into rabbits to determine whether an endotoxin (LPS)-free microorganism also elicits cytokinemia and the physiologic abnormalities seen in Gram-negative bacteremia. S. epidermidis induced complement activation, circulating TNF and IL-1, and hypotension to the same degree as did one-twentieth the number of heat-killed Escherichia coli. Circulating IL-1 beta levels had a greater correlation coefficient (r = 0.81, P less than 0.001) with the degree of hypotension than TNF levels (r = 0.48, P less than 0.02). Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, diffuse pulmonary capillary aggregation of neutrophils, and hepatic necrosis with neutrophil infiltration were observed to the same extent after either S. epidermidis or E. coli infusion. However, S. epidermidis infusion did not induce significant (less than 60 pg/ml) endotoxemia, whereas E. coli infusion resulted in high (11,000 pg/ml) serum endotoxin levels. S. epidermidis, E. coli, LPS, or S. epidermidis-derived lipoteichoic acid (LTA) induced TNF and IL-1 from blood mononuclear cells in vitro. E. coli organisms and LPS were at least 100-fold more potent than S. epidermidis or LTA. Thus, a shock-like state with similar levels of complement activation as well as circulating levels of IL-1 and TNF were observed following either S. epidermidis or E. coli. These data provide further evidence that host factors such as IL-1 and TNF are common mediators of the septic shock syndrome regardless of the organism. 
Portal vein thrombosis complicating endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. Convincing further evidence. Portal vein thrombosis occurred in a patient who bled from gastric varices that developed after obliteration of esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy. This complication was recognized only at surgery when thrombectomy and endovenectomy preceded the successful placement of an end-to-side portocaval shunt. At histopathology, the presence of an amorphous, eosinophilic material staining negatively for fibrin and similar to sclerosant injected at sclerotherapy was observed within the clot. This latter finding, previously unreported, provides convincing evidence for the causal relationship of portal vein thrombosis to endoscopic sclerotherapy. 
Prevention of perioperative deep vein thrombosis in general surgery: a multicentre double blind study comparing two doses of Logiparin and standard heparin. H.B.P.M. Research Group. A total of 1290 patients were enrolled in a randomized multicentre double blind study in order to investigate the use of two doses of a new low molecular weight heparin, Logiparin, in the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in general surgery. Patients who were included had no contraindication to heparin therapy and had at least one of the recognized risk factors for DVT. Patients were randomized to receive unfractionated heparin (UH) 5000 units b.d., Logiparin 2500 units daily or Logiparin 3500 units daily. Each treatment was given subcutaneously 2 h before surgery and continued for 7-10 days. Daily 125I-labelled fibrinogen uptake tests (FUTs) were performed from day 2 to day 7 to detect DVT, and phleboangiography was used to confirm the diagnosis. The wound was examined on a daily basis to check for haematoma formation, and all patients were followed up for 1 month after operation. All three treatment arms were well matched for age, sex, weight, diagnosis and type of operation performed. The three major inclusion criteria in the trial were malignancy, age over 60 years and a history of varicose veins. Positive FUTs (UH = 4.2 per cent, Logiparin 2500 units daily = 7.9 per cent, Logiparin 3500 units daily = 3.7 per cent) and positive angiograms (UH = 3.0 per cent, Logiparin 2500 units daily = 5.6 per cent, Logiparin 3500 units daily = 2.3 per cent) were significantly more common in the Logiparin 2500 units daily group than in the UH and Logiparin 3500 units daily groups. The rates of major complications (severe haemorrhage, death, pulmonary embolism, reintervention) were similar in the three groups. 
Treatment of pulmonary endometriosis with a long-acting GnRH agonist. We report the case of a patient who was successfully treated with a long-acting GnRH agonist for pulmonary endometriosis. This 28-year-old woman had symptomatic pleural endometriosis, documented by biopsies, as well as symptomatic pelvic endometriosis. Two surgical procedures, consisting of excision of pleural endometriotic tissue and partial pleurectomies, failed to relieve her chest symptoms. Little relief was achieved with pseudopregnancy treatment. Satisfactory symptomatic improvement was obtained with danazol, but this medication had to be discontinued because of severe side effects. Trial of a GnRH agonist, leuprolide acetate, achieved complete remission of her chest symptoms; in addition, the patient became pregnant immediately after cessation of therapy. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist therapy may be an important therapeutic alternative for women with pulmonary endometriosis who cannot tolerate danazol treatment and in whom surgical therapy fails to relieve the chest symptoms. 
One hundred ten consecutive primary orthotopic liver transplants under FK 506 in adults. An account is given of the 6- to 12-month survival, and causes of failure in 110 consecutive patients who underwent primary liver transplantation under treatment from the outset with FK 506 and steroids. The patient survival is 92.7%, and the first graft survival is 87.3%. At a very high frequency, the patients achieved good graft function, and they had a relatively low morbidity that was partially ascribable to minimal use and early discontinuance (in 60% of cases) of steroids. Renal dysfunction and other adverse findings were largely confined to patients with poor initial graft function and consequent apparent alteration of the kinetics of FK 506 elimination, causing functional overdosage. Results compare very favorably with our past record using conventional immunosuppression, and support the belief that FK 506 is a superior immunosuppressive agent which is suitable for chronic administration. 
Hepatic perfusion index (HPI) in mesenteric angina and following successful revascularization. This is a case report of a 45 year old man who had previously undergone a small bowel resection for acute mesenteric ischaemia. He subsequently suffered from mesenteric angina due to stenosis of the origin of the superior mesenteric artery and intermittent claudication due to aorto-iliac atheroma. The patient underwent a successful aorto-bifemoral Y graft and small bowel revascularization with a saphenous vein graft between the Y graft and the accessible proximal portion of the superior mesenteric artery. Before vascular reconstruction, the hepatic perfusion indices (HPI) in both the fasted and fed states were elevated; after mesenteric revascularization the HPI values were substantially lowered. The hepatic perfusion index may, by demonstrating functional abnormality, be useful in the diagnosis of mesenteric ischaemia and also in the assessment of treatment. Further evaluation of HPI in patients with suspected mesenteric ischaemia is therefore required. 
Diagnosis and management of Kawasaki disease. Kawasaki disease is an acute vasculitis characterized by mucosal inflammation, rash, cervical adenopathy, indurative edema of the hands and feet, and late membranous desquamation of the fingertips. Early cardiac effects include myocarditis (occasionally with congestive heart failure), pericardial inflammation, and, rarely, valve involvement. Coronary artery aneurysms are a long-term concern because coronary thrombosis with myocardial infarction can be a late manifestation. The origin of Kawasaki disease is unknown, but an infectious agent is most likely. Management consists of aspirin for control of fever and inflammatory manifestations and intravenous gamma globulin for the prevention of coronary aneurysm formation. Careful late follow-up is required, especially for patients with persistent coronary abnormalities. Giant aneurysms (greater than 8 mm) are more likely to progress to coronary obstructive disease, and coronary bypass grafts have been required for some patients. Late coronary artery manifestations in patients with mild early coronary dilatation have not been described. However, since long-term epidemiologic studies have not yet been performed, it is prudent to consider childhood Kawasaki disease to be a potential risk factor for coronary disease, especially in atherosclerosis-prone Western societies. 
Characterization of in vivo expression of the human papillomavirus type 16 E4 protein in cervical biopsy tissues. The role of human papillomavirus (HPV) proteins in the pathogenesis of cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) and invasive cervical cancer is poorly understood. To characterize E4 protein expression in 49 paraffin-embedded cervical biopsies representing different histopathologic grades of disease, antibodies were elicited to a synthetic peptide corresponding to amino acids 20-34 of a protein predicted to be encoded by the HPV 16 E4 open reading frame. The E4 protein was detected throughout the spectrum of CIN, from CIN1 to CIN3. Expression was localized to the cell nucleus, primarily in the superficial layers of the squamous cervical epithelium. Ultrastructural studies showed that the E4 protein was organized into compact, intranuclear arrays 25-35 nm in diameter. E4 protein expression was also demonstrated in some histologically normal tissues containing HPV 16 DNA, but not in any of five cervical cancers containing HPV 16 DNA. These results suggest that E4 protein expression may precede development of light microscopic tissue abnormalities, that it may continue through the spectrum of CIN, and that expression of this protein may be reduced or terminated in invasive cancer. The function of this protein remains unknown, but its nuclear localization may be consistent with a role in viral maturation. 
Discontinuation of lithium treatment in remitted bipolar patients: relationship between clinical outcome and changes in sleep-wake cycles. In this preliminary report, we describe four patients in whom long-term lithium therapy was discontinued, combined with actigraphic monitoring to assess changes in motor activity and the sleep-wake cycle. Two patients experienced rapid relapse of manic symptomatology, while two remained stable throughout a 1-year follow-up. Actigraphic monitoring revealed disintegration of the sleep-wake cycle and increased motor activity in the relapsed patients only. It is suggested that actigraphic recordings can be used to monitor lithium discontinuation. 
Conventional blood conservation techniques in 500 consecutive coronary artery bypass operations. With use of a nonpharmacological, simple, and inexpensive program for blood conservation, 500 consecutive patients underwent elective coronary artery bypass grafting without need of homologous red cell transfusions in 493 (98.6%). At least one internal mammary artery was grafted in all but 1 patient, with supplemental saphenous vein grafts. Intraoperatively, autologous heparinized blood was removed before bypass and retransfused at the conclusion of extracorporeal circulation. The volume remaining in the oxygenator and tubing set was returned without cell processing or hemofiltration. Using the hard-shell cardiotomy reservoir from the heart-lung machine, autotransfusion of the shed mediastinal blood was continued hourly up to 18 hours after operation. The mean postoperative mediastinal blood loss was 643 +/- 354 mL, whereas 624 +/- 296 mL was autotransfused. Thirteen patients (2.6%) needed reexploration for bleeding, of whom 7 (7/500, 1.4%) received homologous blood. No other patients required red cell transfusions. In addition, 9 patients were given a mean of 2.6 units of fresh frozen plasma because of suspected coagulopathy. No platelets were transfused, and no cryoprecipitate therapy was undertaken. Thus, in total, 484 patients (96.8%) were not exposed to any homologous blood products during the hospital stay. At discharge, the mean hemoglobin concentration was 121 +/- 14 g/L (12.1 +/- 1.4 g/dL) and the hematocrit, 0.36 +/- 0.04. Postoperative complications were few. There was one in-hospital death (0.2%). 
Natural history of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease without oesophagitis. This retrospective study was undertaken to characterise the clinical course and reflux pattern of patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux without evidence of oesophagitis. We investigated 33 patients (12 women, 21 men; mean age 36 years) with typical symptoms, a negative oesophagoscopy, and a 24 hour oesophageal pH-metry indicative of pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux. All patients received antacids or prokinetic drugs or both for three to six months. Nineteen of 33 patients still had symptoms at the end of treatment, of whom five had developed erosive changes of the oesophageal mucosa. The other 14 discontinued treatment and remained asymptomatic during a six month follow up period. Comparison of the pretreatment pH-metry data of the 19 symptomatic patients and the 14 asymptomatic patients showed no differences in the pattern of gastro-oesophageal reflux in the two groups. We conclude that in a substantial proportion of patients with pathological reflux without oesophagitis symptoms may persist and mucosal lesions may develop during conventional treatment without any apparent change in the reflux. Patients who developed endoscopic oesophagitis did not have a more severe pretreatment pattern of gastro-oesophageal reflux when compared with those who did not develop oesophageal mucosal damage. 
Copper loading of hearts increases postischemic reperfusion injury. We studied the role of copper as a potential mediator of postischemic reperfusion injury in the isolated, perfused rat heart. Hearts were equilibrated with Krebs-Henseleit buffer for 10 minutes and then loaded with copper by way of perfusion with buffer containing 20 microM copper(II)-bis-histidial for 30 minutes. Control hearts were perfused with Krebs-Henseleit buffer alone during the loading period. Hearts than were washed with buffer for 10 minutes and subjected to 20 minutes of normothermic global ischemia followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion. Atomic absorption spectroscopy revealed a 67% increase in total copper content in loaded hearts by the end of the wash. By the end of the 30-minute period of reperfusion, control hearts demonstrated a 50-60% recovery of myocardial function as determined by peak systolic pressure, contractility, and heart rate. In contrast, copper-loaded hearts exhibited virtually no functional recovery within the 30-minute time period. Using salicylate as a probe, we determined that peak and duration of .OH formation appears to be increased in copper-loaded hearts during reperfusion. Furthermore, efflux of lactic dehydrogenase was significantly increased in copper-loaded hearts. Our results clearly demonstrate that increasing cardiac content of copper results in enhanced postischemic reperfusion injury associated with increased formation of .OH, thus suggesting an important catalytic role for this transition metal. 
Gastric cancer in Scotland: changing epidemiology, unchanging workload. OBJECTIVE--To determine the changes in incidence of and mortality from gastric cancer in Scotland between 1978 and 1987 and in the operative workload in Lothian between 1979 and 1988. DESIGN--Analysis of national incidence statistics for gastric cancer derived from the Scottish national cancer registry, deaths from gastric cancer recorded by the registrar general for Scotland, and Lothian surgical audit data. SETTING--Scotland and Lothian Health Board area. PATIENTS--Patients in Scotland with gastric cancer during 1978 to 1987 inclusive; patients in Scotland with gastric cancer recorded on their death certificate as cause of death during 1978 to 1987; patients who had an operation in Lothian for gastric cancer during 1979 to 1988. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Changes in incidence of and mortality from gastric cancer in Scotland from 1978 to 1987 and in the number of operations performed for gastric cancer in Lothian from 1979 to 1988. RESULTS--Mortality from gastric cancer in Scotland fell by about 25% over the 10 years. The incidence and standardised incidence of gastric cancer showed a marginal decline of about 9%. The differences in trends between incidence and mortality were significant (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS--This study shows that the surgical workload associated with gastric cancer is not declining. This is because the incidence has remained almost static, which may be due to the relative increase in the numbers of older people in the population, who are at greater risk of developing gastric cancer. Gastric cancer should not be regarded as a disease in decline. Incidence and workload should determine resources allocated to this disease rather than mortality statistics. 
Mucin-hypersecreting tumor of the pancreas with mucin extrusion through an enlarged papilla. Patient records, imaging films, macroscopic and microscopic features, and clinical follow-up data of seven Japanese patients with a mucin-hypersecreting tumor of the pancreas were reviewed. The mucin-hypersecreting tumor was defined as an enlarged major or minor papilla with a dilated orifice and visible mucin oozing on endoscopy. The series consisted of six men and one woman ranging from 47 to 79 yr old. The excretion of mucin through a patulous orifice of the enlarged ampulla of Vater was seen in six patients and of the enlarged minor papilla in the other patient with pancreas divisum. The main pancreatic duct was dilated in all patients. Amorphous mucin was seen in the dilated duct of five patients, and papillary nodules were present in two patients. Computed tomography and/or ultrasonography showed dilatation of the main pancreatic duct with multilocular cysts in six patients and with a solid tumor in the other patient. The tumor was located diffusely in the main pancreatic duct in one patient, whereas it was confined to branches in the head (four patients), body (one patient), or tail (one patient) of the pancreas in the six other patients. Histopathologic diagnosis was a cyst lined by hyperplastic mucus-secreting epithelium in one patient, mucinous cystadenoma in two, and mucinous cystadenocarcinoma in two. Five patients underwent resection and have survived for 1-46 months after the operation. The authors would like to emphasize this endoscopic syndrome because about half of mucin-hypersecreting tumors are malignant with a favorable prognosis. 
The correlation between immunological reaction in the arterial wall and the time course of the development of cerebral vasospasm in a primate model. To investigate the role of immunological reactions in the development of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), the authors studied the correlation between immune/inflammatory reactions in the arterial wall and the time course of vasospasm in primates. Twenty monkeys were divided into four groups of 5 animals each: 1) a control group of sham-operated animals, 2) animals subjected to angiography 3 days after the induction of SAH (3-day SAH), 3) animals subjected to angiography 7 days after SAH (1-week SAH), and 4) animals subjected to angiography 7 and 14 days after SAH (2-week SAH). To induce SAH, the main cerebral arteries on the right were dissected free of the arachnoid, and an autologous blood clot was placed around the arteries. To evaluate vasospasm, all animals underwent a baseline angiogram before SAH; angiography was repeated at different intervals in each group, as outlined above. Histopathological changes and the deposition of the immunoglobulin IgG in the arterial wall were evaluated immunohistochemically in each group. The cerebral arteries on the side of the clot showed evidence of mild vasospasm (-24.6% reduction) on the angiogram performed on Day 3, severe vasospasm (-51.7%) on Day 7, and mild vasospasm (-12.8%) on Day 14. The infiltration of inflammatory cells was most marked in the spastic arterial wall in the 1-week SAH group. In the 2-week SAH group, severe myonecrosis and intimal disruption were observed, even in the vessels that showed only mild vasospasm, and the inflammatory reactions had almost abated. 
Decreasing survival benefit from cardiac transplantation for outpatients as the waiting list lengthens. Many patients are accepted for cardiac transplantation during a period of clinical instability associated with a high risk of death, even though most can be discharged home to await transplantation. As the waiting lists lengthen, priority is awarded solely on the basis of the waiting time of outpatients, who now usually undergo transplantation after they have already survived a major period of jeopardy. To determine the impact of the current waiting times and priority system on the previously expected benefit offered by transplantation, 1-year actuarial survival without transplantation was recalculated after each month without transplantation for 214 potential candidates with an ejection fraction of 0.17 +/- 0.05 discharged on tailored medical therapy after evaluation. These data were compared with the 1-year survival data of 88 outpatients who underwent transplantation. Actuarial survival after 1 year was 67% on tailored therapy compared with 88% after transplantation (p = 0.009). Death without transplantation was sudden in 43 of 51 patients, resulting from hemodynamic decompensation in 8. For outpatients already surviving 6 months without transplantation, actuarial survival over the next 12 months was 83% without transplantation. Thus, the expected improvement in survival after transplantation would be only 5% over the subsequent year for patients waiting 6 months, which is the waiting time for many outpatients. Such patients should be reevaluated to determine whether transplantation remains indicated during the next year. 
Occipital meningoceles in patients with the Dandy-Walker syndrome. Occipital cephaloceles in the Dandy-Walker syndrome are not rare. To date, 28 cases have been reported. We report on 8 cases of associated occipital meningocele, totalling 16% of all patients with the Dandy-Walker syndrome in our series. In all patients, communication existed between the posterior fossa cyst and the occipital meningocele. In 2 patients, the occipital meningocele disappeared after cerebrospinal fluid shunting and never required surgical repair. It appears that the cranial defect had ossified and resulted in self-closure. Poor intellectual development in persons with the Dandy-Walker syndrome is associated with the presence of other central nervous system and systemic abnormalities and not with occipital meningoceles alone. 
Application of intermediate biomarkers to studies of cancer prevention in the gastrointestinal tract: introduction and perspective. In this article, abnormalities in the proliferation and differentiation of gastrointestinal cells are described in diseases that increase predisposition to gastrointestinal cancer. Recent findings related to the effects of calcium on gastrointestinal cell proliferation, differentiation, and tumor occurrence in rodent models and in human subjects are summarized. 
Nutritional support of patients with cancer of the gastrointestinal tract. Malnutrition is extremely common in patients with malignant disease. Whereas the causes are multifactorial, the predominant factor is the imbalance between nutrient intake and host nutrient requirements. Furthermore, the evidence suggests that cachexia is related to abnormal changes in host intermediary metabolism induced by host-tumor interactions, and endogenous peptides such as TNF may be important mediators. The role of nutritional therapy in cancer patients remains to be defined. Clearly, patients with severe malnutrition benefit from nutritional intervention. However, the benefit of nutritional therapy in less severe cases of malnutrition as an adjuvant to oncologic therapy has yet to be established. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome: objective measures and splint use. One hundred five adults with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) were studied to assess the efficacy of a neutral-angle wrist splint, and to identify criteria for splint referral. Ten observations before and after treatment were analyzed with descriptive and inferential statistics. After splint use, 67% of the subjects reported symptom relief. T-test comparison of sensory latency of values before and after treatment indicated improvement for the total group. Chi-square and t-tests failed to reveal significant differences between relief and no-relief groups for gender, affected hand, presence of concomitant conditions, duration of symptoms before treatment, age, length of time between pretreatment and posttreatment nerve conduction testing, initial nerve latency of motor and sensory fibers, or the difference between pretreatment and posttreatment sensory latencies. A significant difference was found for motor latency; the relief group improved and the no-relief group deteriorated. Data suggest that splinting is most effective if applied within three months of symptom onset. Those with damage to the wrist structures or median nerve were least responsive to splinting. 
Short-term antibiotic treatment in Whipple's disease. We report the results of short-term antibiotic treatment in 19 patients with Whipple's disease (WD). The diagnosis was based on clinical features and on a characteristic small bowel biopsy. Patients received treatment for a mean of 7.9 weeks (range 4-20). Fourteen were treated with de-methyl-chlortetracycline (600 mg/day), and 1 also received chloramphenicol (1 g/day); 1 was treated with ampicillin (2 g/day), and 4 were treated with amoxicillin (1.5 g/day). In all patients, the clinical response was rapid and excellent, body weight increased significantly, diarrhea subsided, and fecal fat values returned to normal. Intestinal biopsies obtained after treatment was completed showed significant improvement based on a decrease in the number of macrophages staining positive with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS), normalization of villous structure, and decreased dilatation of lymphatic channels; free bacilli were absent, as shown both by light and electron microscopy. Seventeen patients have been followed for a mean of 99.4 months (range 6-300). Two died 30 and 72 months after diagnosis of Whipple's disease, 1 of laryngeal carcinoma and the other of colonic carcinoma. Fifteen patients are in excellent health. Three patients treated with tetracycline have had clinical and/or histologic relapses. In our experience, short-course antibiotic treatment with tetracycline or ampicillin and derivatives can be effective in WD, with few relapses and excellent outcome. No neurologic symptoms, either initially or during follow-up were observed. 
Prevalence of dementia in the 'oldest old' of a Dutch community. OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence rate of dementia in subjects 85 years of age and over. DESIGN: A two-phase design with the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) in the screening phase and the Geriatric Mental State Schedule (GMS) in the diagnostic phase. SETTING: Community survey including subjects in residential care. SUBJECTS: All (n = 1,259) inhabitants of Leiden, The Netherlands, aged 85 years and over on December 1, 1986. First phase participation rate was 71% (17% dropout due to death); second phase participation rate was 82%. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: DSM-III diagnosis of dementia without further specification of the etiology of the dementia. RESULTS: An overall prevalence rate of 23% (95% C.I.: 19%-26%) was found. This included 12% mild dementia, 7% moderate and 4% severe dementia. The prevalence rate was higher among women (24%) than among men (18%). It increased with age from 19% (95% C.I.: 16%-22%) in the group of 85-89 years to 32% (95% C.I.: 26%-39%) in the group of 90-94 years to 41% (95% C.I.: 25%-58%) in the 95+ group. CONCLUSION: A fifth of the 85+ and a third of the 90+ population suffer from dementia with an indication that half of the 95+ population is affected. With the expected steep rise in the number of the oldest old, dementia will stay a major health problem in the near future. 
Mastoid misery: quantifying the distress in a radical cavity. Seventy-eight mastoid cavities were studied in 39 patients who required revision surgery for troublesome symptoms. A retrospective questionnaire was used to assign a symptom score to each patient in his pre and post-operative condition. The 5 leading symptoms of pain, wax, discharge, smell and giddiness were reviewed. A score of 15 points represented the worst case and zero the best. The average improvement after surgery was 4.7 points. Hearing was not considered in this study. 
Efficacy and cost effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy in women with node-negative breast cancer. A decision-analysis model. BACKGROUND. In 1988 the National Cancer Institute issued a Clinical Alert that has been widely interpreted as recommending that all women with node-negative breast cancer receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Acceptance of this recommendation is controversial, since many women who would not have a recurrence would be treated. METHODS. Using a decision-analysis model, we studied the cost effectiveness of chemotherapy in cohorts of 45-year-old and 60-year-old women with node-negative breast cancer by calculating life expectancy as adjusted for quality of life. The analysis evaluated different scenarios of the benefit of therapy: improved disease-free survival for five years, with a lesser effect on overall survival (base line); a lifelong benefit from chemotherapy; and a benefit in disease-free survival with no change in overall survival by year 10. The base-line analysis assumed a 30 percent reduction in the relative risk of recurrence for five years after treatment. RESULTS. For the 45-year-old woman, the base-line analysis found an average lifetime benefit from chemotherapy of 5.1 quality-months at a cost of $15,400 per quality-year. The 60-year-old women gained 4.0 quality-months at a cost of $18,800 per quality-year. Under the more and less optimistic scenarios, the benefit of chemotherapy varied from 1.4 to 14.0 quality-months for both groups. CONCLUSIONS. Chemotherapy substantially increases the quality-adjusted life expectancy of an average woman at a cost comparable to that of other widely accepted therapies. This benefit decreases markedly if the changes in long-term survival are less than in disease-free survival. Given its uncertain duration, the benefit may be too small for many women to choose chemotherapy. Selective use of chemotherapy to maximize the benefit to individual patients may be possible with refinements in risk stratification and explicit assessment of the patients' risk preferences. 
Civilian craniocerebral gunshot wounds. Experience with 120 patients who incurred a gunshot wound to the head with dural penetration is presented. All of the patients were managed by a standard resuscitation protocol and assigned a clinical grade based on their level of consciousness both at the time of presentation and at 2 to 4 months after injury. Fifty patients (42%) underwent surgery. Twenty-eight patients (23%) had a good recovery, 19 (16%) were moderately disabled, 6 (5%) were severely disabled, and 67 (56%) died. All patients who were alert and awake with a normal or near normal neurological examination at the time of admission survived with a good outcome. All but 4 patients who were comatose at the time of admission died. Nine patients, however, who were not comatose at the time of admission died from potentially preventable causes. In 3 of these patients, a more aggressive diagnostic approach (including cerebral angiography) may have altered their ultimate outcome. An expeditious approach to the trauma victim with a comprehensive management scheme after injury may have altered the course in the remainder of these patients. 
Total androgen ablation: European experience. The EORTC GU Group. Zoladex plus flutamide significantly delays the time to progression (subjective, objective, first progression) compared with orchiectomy, but no difference in survival (death from all causes or from malignant disease) could be detected. Thus, a delay in the appearance of progression has not improved survival. In fact, the duration of survival after progression tends to be shorter on Zoladex plus flutamide. There is thus no evidence to suggest any survival benefit with Zoladex plus flutamide. The quality control of our data revealed acknowledged problems in defining responses in patients with advanced prostate cancer. The review of the Bone Scan Committee provided the data for Tables 5 to 7. These data must provoke some reflections and emphasize once again the heterogeneity of the studied patient population. Table 4 on pain response after 4 weeks is just one of the many items to be analyzed by the committees for response criteria and quality of life. We expect that the other trials face similar problems. More work and patience are needed to obtain a firm answer to this clinical problem. These efforts will never be wasted, however, because the combined results of these trials will increase our knowledge of the treated history of prostate cancer and will, we hope, indicate a net treatment benefit in some subsets of patients. An individually tailored treatment for each patient selected from the anonymous mass of cases of advanced prostate cancer would be the highest reward of our continued collaboration with all the study groups. 
Use of modified diets in nursing homes. Randomly chosen medical charts of 212 elderly subjects in 11 nursing homes were reviewed to determine which characteristics of the subjects were most closely associated with their diet prescriptions. The chart reviews indicated that 104 (49.0%) of the 212 subjects had some type of nutrient-modified diet prescription. Eight patients who were tube fed were not included in subsequent analyses. Sodium restriction was the most common modification (60 [29.4%] of the remaining 204 patients) and calorie-controlled diets were also common (52 [25.5%] of the patients). Of the 55 patients with hypertension, 31 (56.4%) had no sodium restriction. Only 10% of all low-sodium diets limited sodium to 2 g per day. Of the 38 patients with diabetes, 7 (18.4%) had no prescription for calorie control, and there was no indication that increased dietary fiber was encouraged for diabetic patients. Only one of the 121 subjects with a diagnosis of coronary heart disease or atherosclerosis had a prescription for a cholesterol-lowering diet. Characteristics of the subjects not specifically related to diet or diagnosis, such as age, sex, duration of stay, and level of care, had no significant relationship to diet prescription. These findings suggest that the practitioners in our sample were not convinced of the efficacy of modified diets to control disease for most nursing home residents. 
Thoracoscopic carbon dioxide laser treatment of bullous emphysema. A new technique of thoracoscopic laser ablation of pulmonary bullae suitable for patients with multiple bullae and diffuse emphysema was developed and assessed in 22 patients. 20 of 22 patients survived. Pre-operative and postoperative functional evaluation is available for the 11 patients followed up for more than a month; at 1 to 3 months postoperatively there were increases in FVC (mean 2.0 litres pre-operatively to 2.7 litres postoperatively, p less than 0.001), in FEV1 (0.74 to 1.06 litres, p = 0.01), and in maximum exercise treadmill times (5.4 min to 8.0 min, p less than 0.01). Postoperative air leaks lasted a mean of 13 days and usually resolved spontaneously. Other complications were bleeding (1 patient) and unilateral acute lung injury (1 patient). These results suggest that selected patients with diffuse emphysema and pulmonary bullae may benefit from thoracoscopic carbon dioxide laser ablation. 
Methotrexate and histologic hepatic abnormalities: a meta-analysis. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the risk of liver toxicity from the long-term administration of methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis. DESIGN: A meta-analysis of 15 studies examining the relationship between long-term, low-dose methotrexate administration and biopsy evidence of liver fibrosis. PATIENTS: A total of 636 patients from 15 studies. RESULTS: The incidence of progression of liver disease (defined as worsening of at least one grade on the histologic classification of Roenigk) among 636 patients was 27.9% (95% confidence intervals 24.3 to 31.6). The rate of progression of liver disease in the 15 studies was associated with the cumulative dose of methotrexate (p = 0.01). Patients on average had a 6.7% (95% confidence intervals 2.1 to 11.4) chance of progressing at least one histologic grade on liver biopsy for each gram of methotrexate taken. The overall incidence of advanced pathologic changes on liver biopsy (grades IIIB or IV) among 636 patients was 5.0% (95% confidence intervals 3.5 to 7.0). The development of advanced histologic changes was not associated with the cumulative dose of methotrexate (p = 0.08). Patients who according to their history were heavy drinkers (at least 100 g of alcohol per week) were more likely to have advanced changes on liver biopsy (17.8% versus 4.5%, p = 0.0003) and to show histologic progression (73.3% versus 25.9%, p = 0.0002). Patients with psoriasis were more likely than patients with rheumatoid arthritis to have advanced changes (7.7% versus 2.7%, p = 0.003) and histologic progression (33.1% versus 24.3%, p = 0.02). CONCLUSIONS: The risk of liver toxicity in patients undergoing long-term, low-dose methotrexate therapy is substantial, and that risk increases with the total cumulative dose and with heavy consumption of alcohol. Heavy users of alcohol should not receive long-term methotrexate therapy. For most patients who are not heavy users of alcohol, liver biopsies should be done periodically to monitor for the occurrence of liver toxicity. 
A practical guide to nitrate use. Nitrate preparations are useful in the treatment of acute and chronic angina, acute and chronic congestive heart failure, and acute myocardial infarction. Development of tolerance is best managed by providing a nitrate-free interval, thus avoiding continuous drug levels. This interval probably should be 10 to 12 hours with use of a transdermal patch. Nitrate treatment of the elderly may require lower doses to avoid hypotension. 
Radial nerve paralysis and tumor. This paper presents ten cases of radial nerve paralysis because of tumor and reviews 38 previously reported cases. The tumor distribution was 35 lipomas, four neurofibromas, four ganglions, three neuromas, one fibroma, and one neurilemoma. Malignant tumors are not discussed in this review. Electromyography is of value if diagnostic problems occur. Postoperative results are normally good. 
Massive ST-segment elevation without myocardial injury in a patient with fulminant hepatic failure and cerebral edema. A 49-year-old woman presented in fulminant hepatic failure. The ECG showed dramatic ST-segment elevation, suggesting diffuse myocardial injury. However, echocardiography, creatine phosphokinase enzyme determinations, and examination of the heart at autopsy (six days later) failed to demonstrate any physiologic, anatomic, or histologic evidence of abnormality. The appearance of ST-segment elevation in this setting should not prompt treatment for cardiac disease or limit the candidacy for liver transplantation of such critically ill patients. 
Mononeuropathy in sickle cell anemia: anatomical and pathophysiological basis for its rarity. Peripheral neuropathy is a rare complication of sickle cell disease. We report a young black woman with sickle cell anemia who developed a proximal median mononeuropathy in the setting of sickle cell crisis. The clinical and electrodiagnostic features are consistent with an ischemic mechanism from the sickling process. The pathophysiological basis for the rarity of this complication may be related to the rich anastomotic microvasculature of peripheral nerve and the unique large size of the capillaries of this vascular network. 
Scleral buckling for rhegmatogenous retinal detachment associated with severe myopia. From Jan. 1, 1980, to Dec. 31, 1989, we performed scleral buckling surgery on 48 eyes of 46 patients for rhegmatogenous retinal detachments associated with severe myopia (greater than 5.00 diopters). Forty eyes of 38 patients were observed for at least six months, and the mean follow-up period was 46 months. Intraoperative complications occurred in four of 48 eyes (8%) and included retinal incarceration (two eyes), choroidal hemorrhage (one eye), and choroidal detachment (one eye). Three of the 40 eyes (7.5%) followed up for more than six months developed a recurrent retinal detachment and underwent a revision of the scleral buckle. At the last follow-up examination, the retinas of all 40 eyes were totally reattached. Final visual acuity of 20/40 or better was attained in 26 of 40 eyes (65%). Because of the low rate of intraoperative complications and the high rate of success, scleral buckling is recommended for most patients with rhegmatogenous retinal detachments associated with severe myopia. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis of mass screening for breast cancer in Japan. The official Japanese recommendation for breast cancer screening is physical examination by a physician, in contrast to US recommendations of mammography. In this analysis of breast cancer screening, the authors used Japanese data in a cost-effectiveness model to compare the following five strategies: (1) no screening (N); (2) physical examination alone (PE); (3) mammography (MG); (4) PE followed by MG if PE findings were abnormal (PE----MG); and (5) PE combined with MG for all screened women (PE + MG). None of these programs would save medical expenditures. The total discounted net costs per patient (in US dollars) were as follows: N, +54; PE, +412; MG, +517; PE----MG, +340; and PE + MG, +731. The number of years of life saved per cohort of 100,000 asymptomatic Japanese women would range from 708 (PE----MG) to 3724 (PG + MG). The additional cost of each strategy (compared with N) per additional year of life would be +49,700 for PE, +40,400 for PE----MG, +14,300 for MG, and +18,000 for PE + MG. The least costly screening option (PE----MG) does not have the lowest cost per additional year of life saved (MG does). MG would be preferable to the current Japanese recommendation of PE alone. 
C-erbB-2 oncogene protein in in situ and invasive lobular breast neoplasia. Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) has uncertain malignant potential; biologic markers that will identify patients at risk for a poor clinical outcome have been sought actively. Amplification of the c-erbB-2 protooncogene has been correlated with poor prognosis in invasive mammary carcinoma, and immunohistochemical evaluation for expression of the oncogene protein has been correlated with gene amplification. The authors retrospectively evaluated 62 cases of lobular neoplasia for expression of the c-erbB-2 gene product on formalin-fixed, deparaffinized sections, using two monoclonal anti-erbB-2 (p185) antibodies (c-neu Ab3 and m-erb) and one polyclonal anti-erbB-2 antibody (pAb 1) by the avidin-biotin-peroxidase method. All 62 cases were negative with the pAb 1 antibody; one of 62 cases was weakly positive with the c-neu Ab3 in a membranous pattern. Expression of c-erbB-2 gene product was identified on adjacent invasive ductal carcinoma in one case and in adjacent ductal carcinoma in situ in another. None of 15 cases if infiltrating lobular carcinoma was positive with either of the two anti-c-erbB-2 antibodies. Strong positivity was found on benign epithelium in one case, demonstrating epitheliosis. In summary, evidence of expression of the c-erbB-2 gene product was found in one of 57 cases of LCIS and none of 15 cases of invasive lobular carcinoma. This suggests that, in contrast to reported data concerning intraductal and invasive ductal carcinoma, c-erbB-2 oncogene amplification and/or overexpression does not play a significant role in the progression of lobular breast neoplasia. 
Carcinoembryonic antigen and head and neck cancer. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) concentrations were determined in the sera of 45 patients with a head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and of 13 controls. In 13 patients serial CEA measurements were made during the follow-up period. In 38% of the patients the serum CEA level was slightly elevated (greater than or equal to 2.5 ng/ml). Only 13% of the patients had clearly elevated CEA levels (greater than 5 ng/ml). CEA levels were significantly higher in patients with advanced, e.g. stage IV, disease but a correlation between serum CEA concentration and prognosis was not found. Patients who smoked had significantly higher serum CEA levels than non-smoking patients. In the serial determinations slight CEA elevations could be found in only 50% of patients with tumour recurrence. Combined with the data from the literature we conclude that serum CEA determination is not useful in predicting the outcome in patients with a head and neck squamous carcinoma. 
Spinal cord herniation associated with an intradural spinal arachnoid cyst diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. Two rare cases of spinal cord herniation associated with intradural spinal arachnoid cyst are reported. A preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scan demonstrated the presence of spinal cord herniation, identified as a protrusion continuous with the spinal cord. Surgery upon the intradural spinal arachnoid cyst improved progressive neurological dysfunction. The authors postulate that spinal cord herniation occurred for the following reason: The pressure of the intradural arachnoid cyst on the dorsal aspect of the spinal cord caused thinning of the dura, leading to a tear and, thus, the development of an extradural arachnoid cyst. Along with the enlargement of intradural arachnoid cyst, the spinal cord herniated through the tear in the dura into the extradural arachnoid cyst. 
Intraluminal pulsed Doppler evaluation of the pulmonary artery velocity time curve in a canine model of acute pulmonary hypertension. The velocity pattern of the blood flow in the pulmonary artery was investigated in an animal model of acute pulmonary hypertension. Nine anesthetized, open-chest dogs were embolized with polystyrene microspheres, and the velocity pattern of the blood flow in the pulmonary artery was studied with use of an invasive pulsed Doppler technique. Phasic intraluminal velocity was recorded with use of a miniature piezoelectric crystal activated by 20-MHz Doppler pulses and mounted on the tip of a needle probe introduced into the pulmonary artery. The recorded Doppler quadrature signals were processed by spectral analysis. Significant increases occurred in mean, systolic, and diastolic pulmonary arterial pressures (p less than 0.0002), in pulmonary vascular resistance (p less than 0.005), and in negative velocity time (duration in milliseconds that the mean velocity was directed toward the pulmonic valve) (p less than 0.002). Significant decreases occurred in right ventricular ejection time (p less than 0.006) and in positive velocity time (duration in milliseconds that the mean velocity was directed away from the pulmonic valve) (p less than 0.005). A significant shortening in the time to peak velocity (acceleration time) was found (p less than 0.005). Second-order regression analyses demonstrated an inverse correlation between the ratio of positive velocity time to negative velocity time and the mean pulmonary artery pressure in all animals (r = 0.71). These findings should be compared with the velocity patterns of the blood flow in the pulmonary artery obtained under pulmonary hypertensive conditions due to various causes to facilitate interpretation and understanding of clinical investigations. 
Energy state and vasomotor tone in hypoxic pig lungs. To evaluate the role of energy state in pulmonary vascular responses to hypoxia, we exposed isolated pig lungs to decreases in inspired PO2 or increases in perfusate NaCN concentration. Lung energy state was assessed by 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy or measurement of adenine nucleotides by high-pressure liquid chromatography in freeze-clamped biopsies. In ventilated lungs, inspired PO2 of 200 (normoxia), 50 (hypoxia), and 0 Torr (anoxia) did not change adenine nucleotides but resulted in steady-state pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) values of 15.5 +/- 1.4, 30.3 +/- 1.8, and 17.2 +/- 1.9 mmHg, respectively, indicating vasoconstriction during hypoxia and reversal of vasoconstriction during anoxia. In degassed lungs, similar changes in Ppa were observed; however, energy state deteriorated during anoxia. An increase in perfusate NaCN concentration from 0 to 0.1 mM progressively increased Ppa and did not alter adenine nucleotides, whereas 1 mM reversed this vasoconstriction and caused deterioration of energy state. These results suggest that 1) pulmonary vasoconstrictor responses to hypoxia or cyanide occurred independently of whole lung energy state, 2) the inability of the pulmonary vasculature to sustain hypoxic vasoconstriction during anoxia might be associated with decreased energy state in some lung compartment, and 3) atelectasis was detrimental to whole lung energy state. 
Effect of early programmes of high and low intensity exercise on physical performance after transmural acute myocardial infarction. Does a programme of light exercise training after acute myocardial infarction produce the same improvement in treadmill performance as aerobic exercise training? Three hundred and eight men from a consecutive series of 479 men with transmural (Q wave) acute myocardial infarction, admitted to a single coronary care unit, were randomly allocated to eight weeks of group aerobic exercise training or group light exercise. Groups were well matched for all characteristics other than site of infarction, which did not significantly affect results. Mean (SD) physical working capacity (metabolic equivalents) determined by treadmill testing at the start of the study (in the third week after infarction) was 6.8 (2.2) v 6.7 (2.5) METs, at the end (in the eleventh week after infarction) 10.8 (2.3) v 9.9 (2.4) METs, and at 12 month review 10.8 (2.4) v 10.7 (1.9) METs for the exercise training group and the light exercise group respectively. The difference of 0.9 METs at the end of the study was the only significant difference between groups. There were no significant intergroup differences at any stage in resting and maximal heart rate, resting and maximal systolic blood pressure, or rate-pressure product. Apart from a small temporarily greater physical working capacity, the physical benefits of aerobic exercise training were equally well achieved by group light exercise. 
High nocturnal body temperature in premenstrual syndrome and late luteal phase dysphoric disorder. OBJECTIVE: Because women with late luteal phase dysphoric disorder (LLPDD) experience symptomatic affective states predictably, they can be studied to determine whether there are biological findings related solely to the clinically symptomatic state. The authors sought to answer the question, Does body temperature change with affective state? METHOD: The core body temperature and motor activity patterns of 10 women with premenstrual syndrome (PMS), six of whom also met criteria for LLPDD, and no other psychological or medical illness were compared to those of six women with chronic, noncyclic dysphoria and six asymptomatic comparison women at four phases of the menstrual cycle. RESULTS: The nocturnal temperatures of the women with PMS/LLPDD were significantly higher than those of the comparison subjects across the entire menstrual cycle, but there were no differences in nocturnal activity levels. The women with noncyclic dysphoria had a mean nocturnal temperature in the follicular phase as high as that of the women with PMS/LLPDD. The temperatures of all women were higher in the luteal phase than in the follicular phase. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that in the future investigators should document menstrual cycle phase in all female subjects and, when studying body temperature, should carefully monitor symptomatic state in comparison subjects. 
Particular HLA-DQ alpha beta heterodimer associated with IDDM susceptibility in both DR4-DQw4 Japanese and DR4-DQw8/DRw8-DQw4 whites. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) susceptibility is associated with the DR4-DQw4 haplotype in Japanese and the DR4-DQw8/-Drw8-DQw4 genotype (among others) in whites. We investigated whether these Japanese and white individuals encode the same or a similar DQ alpha beta heterodimer, which may be an IDDM-susceptibility molecule in both populations. First, we carried out genomic DQA1 and DQB1 typing with sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes. The results revealed that Japanese DR4-DQw4 and white DR4-DQw8/DRw8-DQw4 IDDM patients carried the DQA1*0301 allele and the DQB1*0401 or DQB1*0402 allele, either in the cis (Japanese DR4-DQw4 individuals) or trans (white DR4-DQw8/DRw8-DQw4 individuals) position. Because the DQB1*0401 and DQB1*0402 alleles differ only at residue 23, these DQB1 genes are very similar. We next tested cells from these individuals with a particular DQ-specific T-lymphocyte clone, HH58. The clone was only restimulated with cells from Japanese individuals who carried the DQA1*0301 and DQB1*0401 alleles in the cis position or white individuals who carried the DQA1*0301 and DQB1*0402 alleles in the trans position. Thus, particular cis- or trans-encoded DQ alpha beta heterodimers, which in both cases are recognized by T lymphocytes, may confer susceptibility to IDDM in both ethnic groups. 
Endoscopic treatment by snare electrocoagulation prior to Nd:YAG laser photocoagulation in 85 voluminous colorectal villous adenomas. The association of endoscopic resection with Nd:YAG laser photocoagulation was used to treat benign colorectal villous adenomas. Eight-five patients were included: 49 with surgical contraindications, 35 for whom surgical resection appeared to be too hazardous, and 1 who refused surgery. Forty-five tumors had an axial extension between 1 and 3 cm, and 40 tumors had an axial extension of at least 4 cm. Diathermic snare resection was performed to remove large tumoral fragments prior to laser photocoagulation of the residual flat lesions. Treatments were repeated every 15 days until total tumor destruction was achieved. A carcinoma was detected in biopsy specimens obtained during endoscopic treatment of five patients. Two patients were lost to follow-up. Treatment results could be analyzed in 78 patients. Successful treatment was achieved in 67 patients. Tumor destruction was complete in 77 percent of patients who had lesions of at least 4 cm diameter and in 93 percent of patients with smaller lesions. The axial extension of the tumor was the main factor affecting the results of treatment. No major complications occurred. During the average 103-week follow-up period, 21 percent of the patients with total tumor destruction had a recurrence. The risk of recurrence was correlated with the number of initial treatment sessions and previous surgery treatment. It would appear that the treatment with endoscopic resection prior to Nd:YAG laser photocoagulation is a safe and effective method in the destruction of colorectal villous adenomas. 
Reference systems in echocardiographic quantitative wall motion analysis with registration of respiration. Registration of respiration allows analysis at the end-expiratory phase and may thus favor the use of the fixed-reference system versus the floating-reference system in echocardiographic quantitative wall motion analysis. Analysis is performed on two-dimensional echocardiograms of 44 normal subjects, 38 patients with anterior myocardial infarction, and 17 patients with posterior myocardial infarction. Two different models for wall motion analysis are applied, each using the fixed-reference system and the floating-reference system, respectively. In patients with anterior myocardial infarction, the fixed-reference system indicates severe wall motion abnormalities at the anterior, septal, and apical walls, whereas the floating-reference system indicates less severe wall motion abnormalities almost equally at every wall. In patients with posterior myocardial infarction, the fixed-reference system indicates severe wall motion abnormalities at the posterior wall, whereas the floating-reference system indicates less severe wall motion abnormalities almost equally at every wall. These findings indicate that the fixed-reference system is superior to the floating-reference system in quantification of wall motion of end-expiratory two-dimensional echocardiograms. 
Comparison of speed of onset of analgesic effect of diamorphine and morphine. In a random, double-blind crossover trial using an ischaemic limb pain model we have assessed the speed of onset of analgesia after an i.v. bolus of equipotent doses of diamorphine and morphine in 12 healthy male volunteers. Pain and its subsequent relief were assessed by means of a visual analogue scale. Two of the subjects found diamorphine acted quicker than morphine, one found no difference and nine found that morphine was quicker than diamorphine. The mean time to diamorphine effect was 53% greater than for morphine (P less than 0.005, Wilcoxon rank sum test). These findings suggest that, for rapid relief of pain, morphine is more suitable than diamorphine. 
New autonomic and sensory neuropathy with loss of adrenergic sympathetic function and sensory neuropeptides. A 30-year-old woman with longstanding dizziness was found to have a severe postural fall in blood pressure and a reduced skin axon-reflex flare response. Autonomic tests indicated selective impairment of adrenergic sympathetic function. Plasma noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, and dopamine beta hydroxylase were undetectable. Skin biopsy specimens showed loss of tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y (markers of adrenergic sympathetic fibres) and of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (sensory neuropeptides). A sural nerve biopsy specimen showed severe depletion of unmyelinated fibres. The constellation of losses were compatible with nerve growth factor (NGF) deprivation, which was confirmed on assay. This new syndrome may be explained by loss of trophic action of NGF. 
Left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertension. Major advances in left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and hypertension have occurred in recent years. The ability to diagnose LVH has been improved by echocardiography, and with this technique it has been shown that evidence of LVH is an important independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The major cause of death in patients with hypertension and LVH is coronary artery disease. Therefore an understanding of the interrelationships between these two disorders is fundamental, and it is now clear that the hypertrophied ventricle is vulnerable to myocardial ischemia. Appreciation of the mechanisms of sudden death has also increased, although the exact situation in patients with LVH remains to be clarified. Regression of LVH is known to occur with the use of several different antihypertensive drugs. Recent studies indicate that the calcium blocking agent nicardipine, in addition to beta-blocking drugs and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, brings about LVH regression without any deterioration of left ventricular function. However, further studies are needed to assess the long-term benefits of this regression. 
Compartment syndrome of the thigh with osteogenesis imperfecta. A case report. Compartment syndrome of the thigh has been sporadically reported in the orthopedic literature. A 27-year-old man with osteogenesis imperfecta sustained a femoral fracture with relatively minor trauma and subsequently developed compartment syndrome of the thigh. Fat embolism syndrome and hyperplastic callus developed postoperatively. 
Regression of hepatic metastases from gastrointestinal leiomyosarcoma after hepatic arterial chemoembolization. Two patients with gastrointestinal leiomyosarcoma metastatic to the liver were treated by hepatic chemoembolization with cisplatin and polyvinyl sponge followed by hepatic arterial infusion of vinblastine. Effective palliation in terms of durable tumor regression was achieved in both patients after two chemoembolization-infusion procedures. These results suggest that regional therapy may offer new hope for the subset of sarcoma patients who have liver metastases resistant to combination systemic chemotherapy. 
The Damus-Fontan procedure. The Damus-Kaye-Stansel operation is a useful technique for the treatment of complex cyanotic congenital heart disease when there is obstruction between the systemic ventricle and the aorta. Modifications of the technique include transection of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, anastomosis of the contiguous aortic and pulmonary walls, and connection of the distal aorta to the perimeter of the new bivalved proximal great artery. In addition, the bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt technique can be used with or without the Fontan procedure. Six patients underwent a Damus-Fontan operation, and all survived. Two patients underwent the Damus-cavopulmonary shunt (hemi-Fontan) procedure, and 1 survived. The postoperative status of the 7 survivors is good to excellent. Follow-up ranges from 2 months to 7 1/2 years. 
Anastomotic obstruction after stapled enteroanastomosis. We have recently treated two cases of anastomotic obstruction after side-to-side stapled enteroanastomosis. Complete obstruction of a stapled small-bowel anastomosis has not been reported to our knowledge. The mechanism of the obstruction appears to be the healing together of the cut edges of viable bowel beyond the inverted stapled lines. An alternative method of constructing the functional end-to-end enteroanastomosis that is offered is intended to prevent the occurrence of postoperative anastomotic obstruction. 
Epidemiologic aspects of shigellosis and other causes of dysentery in Thailand. Nearly 20% of children seen in the outpatient department of Children's Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, for diarrheal disease had bloody diarrhea. Shigella species and enteroinvasive Escherichia coli--isolated from 13% and 2% of children with diarrhea, respectively--were the most frequent causes of bloody diarrhea. Campylobacter species and nontyphoidal Salmonella species were also isolated frequently but were much less often associated with bloody diarrhea. Shigella species were rarely isolated from patients who did not have diarrhea, while Campylobacter and Salmonella species were isolated frequently from well children. None of the species isolated always caused bloody diarrhea. Studies on infection with Campylobacter suggest that natural immunity may prevent bloody diarrhea and in fact may eventually prevent all disease due to this organism. Studies of endemic Shigella flexneri and epidemic Shigella dysenteriae 1 in Thailand have shown that immunity may also explain an age-related decrease in rates of S. flexneri infection but not in rates of S. dysenteriae 1 isolation. 
Cerebrovascular disease in hypertensive blacks. There is convincing evidence that all grades of persistent diastolic hypertension, especially in blacks, should be treated in order to prevent stroke and other cardiovascular complications. Studies are now in progress to gather additional information concerning isolated systolic hypertension, especially in the aged. Inasmuch as at least one half or more of stroke deaths in blacks develop as the result of hypertension, lowering blood pressure offers the perfect opportunity to reduce considerably the frequency of this devastating illness. The recent dramatic fall in U.S. stroke mortality, greatest in the black female, is a commendable achievement, but the flattening of the declining mortality curve over the past several years should be a cause for alarm and intensive investigation. 
Gastrointestinal lipomas: a radiologic and pathologic review. Lipomas of the gastrointestinal tract are an infrequent finding on radiologic examination; however, they occur often enough to warrant consideration in the differential diagnosis of mass lesions of the gut. In many instances, their morphologic characteristics allow the specific diagnosis of a lipoma. In this report, we review gastrointestinal lipomas with an emphasis on their radiologic and pathologic correlation. 
Spectrum of orthostatic disorders: classification based on an analysis of the short-term circulatory response upon standing. 1. In 31 consecutively referred patients (20 females, 11 males) with overt or suspected orthostatic disorders, the changes in blood pressure and heart rate that occur in the first 2 min of standing were analysed. 2. Blood pressure was measured continuously by Finapres. The blood pressure and heart rate responses after 1-2 min of standing (early steady-state response) were used to classify the patients as follows: group I (n = 17, age 42 +/- 17 years), normal early steady-state blood pressure and heart rate responses; group II (n = 5, age 40 +/- 14 years), combination of normal early steady-state blood pressure and postural tachycardia; group III (n = 9, age 51 +/- 14 years), hypotensive orthostatic response with (4/9) or without (5/9) postural tachycardia. We examined whether additional information could be obtained by beat-to-beat analysis of the initial circulatory response (first 30 s). It was quantified by identifying the blood pressure trough and overshoot and the maximum heart rate and relative bradycardia. 3. The initial drop in systolic and diastolic blood pressures did not differ between the three groups. A recovery of blood pressure with a systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure overshoot was present in all group I and II patients, but was absent in all except two patients in group III. The initial maximum heart rate increase did not differ between the three groups. The relative bradycardia was less in groups II and III than in group I. 4. We conclude that analysis of the beat-to-beat blood pressure changes in the first 30 s after the onset of standing provides almost all the information that is necessary to determine abnormalities in orthostatic circulatory control. 
Does atrial appendectomy aggravate secretory function of atrial natriuretic polypeptide? The present study was designed to clarify how atrial appendectomy affects hemodynamics and secretory function of atrial natriuretic polypeptide in the failing heart. Eleven mongrel dogs were prepared for the experimental model of high-output heart failure by creation of arteriovenous fistulas between femoral arteries and veins. Two months after the first operation, effects of bilateral atrial appendectomies on basal and pacing-induced secretions of atrial natriuretic polypeptide were investigated in five dogs with simultaneous measurement of various hemodynamic indices. In the remaining six dogs, used as a control group, pacing-induced secretion of atrial natriuretic polypeptide was examined in the same way as in the appendectomy group. After excision of the atrial appendages, neither systolic blood pressure nor either atrial pressure changed, but plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide level was decreased (292 +/- 54 to 188 +/- 47 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and cardiac output fell (3.7 +/- 0.9 to 3.0 +/- 0.8 L/min, p less than 0.01). During pacing-induced tachycardia, the peak level of plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide was lower in the appendectomy group than in the control groups (593 +/- 213 versus 1170 +/- 324 pg/ml, p less than 0.05), despite similar left atrial pressures in the two groups. The excised appendages contained approximately 30% of the total amount of atrial natriuretic polypeptide. These results demonstrate that atrial appendectomy decreases secretory function of atrial natriuretic polypeptide and reduces cardiac output in dogs with experimental high-output heart failure. 
Systemic contact dermatitis from pseudoephedrine. A patient with rhinitis developed systemic contact dermatitis when starting oral treatment with Rhinalair, containing pseudoephedrine hydrochloride. A few months later, another oral treatment Rinutan, containing norephedrine hydrochloride, provoked a more severe generalized eczema. Patch test reactions were strongly positive to ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, slightly positive to phenylephrine and negative to epinephrine. Norephedrine was not tested. 
Colorectal surgery: short-term prophylaxis with clindamycin plus aztreonam or gentamicin. A randomized study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of aztreonam plus clindamycin with that of gentamicin plus clindamycin for prophylaxis of infection following colorectal surgery. A total of 138 patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery were randomized to treatment with clindamycin (600 mg) plus either aztreonam (1 g) or gentamicin (80 mg) 30 minutes before and 8 and 16 hours after surgery. The study included 122 patients (88.4%) with colorectal carcinoma. Samples from the abdominal cavity and from the subcutaneous tissues were taken for bacteriologic study. All samples from the abdominal cavity yielded microorganisms; both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were isolated. Wound infections occurred in eight patients (12.1%) in the aztreonam group and in 12 patients (16.7%) in the gentamicin group. Escherichia coli, Bacteroides species, enterococci, and staphylococci were isolated most frequently from wounds and were often isolated from bacteriologic samples from the abdominal cavity of the same patients. The incidence of septic complications reflected the extent of nutritional and immunologic impairment. No significant differences were found between groups in the rate of urinary tract or lower respiratory tract infections. Aztreonam/clindamycin appears to be a valid alternative to gentamicin/clindamycin for the prophylaxis of infections following colorectal surgery. 
Incidence and management of airway problems in the CHARGE Association. The airway problems associated with anaesthesia in patients with the CHARGE Association have been underreported. We undertook a retrospective review of 50 cases, of which anaesthetic records were available for 37 patients. Apart from choanal atresia and cleft lip and palate, 56% of patients has some other upper airway abnormality. There appeared to be greater difficulty in tracheal intubation with increase in age in four patients. The incidence and management of airway abnormalities are discussed. 
Report of a hidden case of overfeeding. Nutritional support is essential to the care of the critically ill patient, but complications of overfeeding can occur. Precise metabolic measurement by indirect calorimetry can detect problems of nutrition and allow adjustment in caloric intake. This case study illustrates the complications of carbon dioxide retention and inability to wean from mechanical ventilation with subsequent prevention of further complications. 
Failure of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy in experimental enterococcal endocarditis. To assess the potential efficacy of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) against serious enterococcal infections, we used a rat enterococcal endocarditis model comparing TMP-SMX therapy (500 mg of TMP plus 2,500 mg of SMX per kg of body weight per day given every 8 h by intragastric gavage) with intravenous ampicillin therapy (1,000 mg/kg per day). Despite concentrations of active drug in serum well in excess of the MIC and MBC, the mean residual vegetation bacterial titer in TMP-SMX-treated rats was similar to that in untreated controls (8.4 +/- 1.1 versus 8.6 +/- 1.3 log10 CFU/g) and significantly higher than that in the ampicillin-treated group (3.6 +/- 1.5 log10 CFU/g; P less than or equal to 0.001). This demonstrates discordance between in vitro activity and in vivo efficacy of TMP-SMX in serious enterococcal infection. 
Identification of a germ-line mutation in the p53 gene in a patient with an intracranial ependymoma. We detected a germ-line mutation of the p53 gene in a patient with a malignant ependymoma of the posterior fossa. This mutation, which was found at codon 242, resulted in an amino acid substitution in a highly conserved site of exon 7 of the p53 gene; the same mutation was found in both the germ-line and the tumor tissue. This is the most common region of previously described somatic p53 mutations in tumor specimens and of the germ-line p53 mutations in patients with the Li-Fraumeni cancer syndrome. Evaluation of the patient's family revealed several direct maternal and paternal relatives who had died at a young age from different types of cancer. The association of a germ-line p53 mutation with an intracranial malignancy and a strong family history of cancer suggests that p53 gene mutations predispose a person to malignancy and, like retinoblastoma mutations, may be inherited. 
Late potentials on signal-averaged electrocardiograms and patency of the infarct-related artery in survivors of acute myocardial infarction. This study evaluated the relation between patency of the infarct-related artery and the presence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (ECG) in 124 consecutive patients (98 men, 26 women; mean age 59 years) with acute myocardial infarction receiving thrombolytic therapy, acute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or standard care. All patients were studied by coronary angiography, measurement of ejection fraction and signal-averaged ECG. The infarct-related artery was closed in 51 patients and open in 73. Among patients with no prior myocardial infarction undergoing early attempted reperfusion therapy, a patent artery was associated with a decreased incidence of late potentials (20% versus 71%; no significant difference in ejection fraction). In the 48 patients receiving thrombolytic agents within 4 h of symptom onset, the incidence of late potentials was 24% and 83% among patients with an open or closed artery, respectively (p less than 0.04). The most powerful predictors of late potentials were the presence of a closed infarct-related artery, followed by prior infarction and patient age. Among patients receiving thrombolytic agents within 4 h of symptom onset, the only variable that was predictive of the presence of late potentials was a closed infarct-related artery. These data imply that reperfusion of an infarct-related artery has a beneficial effect on the electrophysiologic substrate for serious ventricular arrhythmias that is independent of change in left ventricular ejection fraction as an index of infarct size. These findings might explain, in part, the low late mortality rate in survivors of myocardial infarction with documented reperfusion of the infarct-related artery. 
Serum inhibin levels in polycystic ovary syndrome: effect of insulin resistance and insulin secretion. Insulin resistance is common in women with the polycystic ovary syndrome. We investigated the relationship between insulin resistance and the serum inhibin concentration in a group of 19 women with polycystic ovary syndrome and eight control subjects at different phases of the menstrual cycle. Insulin resistance was measured by the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test, and inhibin was measured by a specific radioimmunoassay. Insulin sensitivity (mean +/- SE) was significantly reduced in the polycystic ovary syndrome group compared with controls: reduced insulin sensitivity 46.7 +/- 5.0 min-1/(nmol/mL), normally insulin-sensitive 106.6 +/- 11.7 min-1/(nmol/mL) (P less than .01). The women with polycystic ovary syndrome had inhibin levels (126 +/- 15.2 microLEq/mL) comparable to those found during the early follicular phase of the control group (117 +/- 22.1 microLEq/mL), but significantly lower than late follicular phase (259 +/- 25.6 microLEq/mL) or luteal phase (448 +/- 91.8 microLEq/mL) levels in the control group. No association was found between the degree of insulin resistance and the inhibin concentration, which remained unaltered over a 3-hour period despite maximal stimulation of endogenous insulin secretion. The inhibin concentrations in polycystic ovary syndrome may reflect impaired follicular maturation. Inhibin secretion is not acutely affected by insulin secretion in normal or in hyperandrogenic women. 
Absence of human papilloma virus in cervical adenocarcinoma determined by in situ hybridisation. A few studies using DNA technology have suggested that human papillomavirus (HPV) may be an aetiological factor for adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix. Twenty one cases of cervical adenocarcinoma were studied by in situ hybridisation using biotinylated DNA probes for HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18 and a streptavidin, biotinylated alkaline phosphatase detection system. Intranuclear HPV DNA was detected in none of the adenocarcinomas, while positive controls gave a clear intranuclear signal. Adjacent areas of normal, koilocytic, and dysplastic squamous epithelium also gave positive results. It may be that squamous epithelium contaminates adenocarcinomas reported as positive by Southern blotting. Our results showing absence of detectable HPV DNA within adenocarcinomas suggest that HPV infection may not have a major role in the aetiology of adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix. 
Treatment with pulsatile luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone modulates folliculogenesis in response to ovarian stimulation with exogenous gonadotropins in patients with polycystic ovaries. Combined treatment with pulsatile LH-RH and hMG, given to eight patients who had anovulation associated with PCO and resistant to CC, significantly reduced the number of large follicles induced by hMG alone. A direct effect of pulsatile LH-RH on the ovary is postulated. This combined treatment eased the problems of multifollicular development, thereby increasing efficiency and reducing complications in patients with PCO stimulated by gonadotropins. 
First clinical study of the selective 5-HT3 antagonist, granisetron (BRL 43694), in the acute treatment of migraine headache. Granisetron (BRL 43694), a selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, was assessed as acute therapy for the first time in migraine patients. In an open pilot study 7 migraine attacks were treated in 6 patients. All but 1 patient experienced marked and rapid relief from the headache, and nausea and vomiting were rapidly resolved in the 6 cases where these symptoms accompanied the attack. No side effects were recorded. Development of granisetron for migraine was suspended during the study for extraneous reasons. 
Expression of Tn, sialosyl Tn, and T antigens in human pancreas. Carbohydrate antigens representing some of the initial steps in mucin O-linked glycosylation were examined in specimens of normal pancreas, chronic pancreatitis, and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Tn antigen, recognized by Vicia villosa lectin, was expressed by all specimens of normal pancreas (acinar cells) and pancreatic cancers and all but one case of chronic pancreatitis. Sialosyl Tn antigen, recognized by monoclonal antibody TKH2, was expressed in a cancer-associated fashion, being completely absent in normal pancreas but expressed by 56% of chronic pancreatitis and 97% of pancreatic cancers. T antigen, recognized by monoclonal antibody AH9-16, was expressed in 68% of normal pancreas (acinar cells), 67% of chronic pancreatitis, and 48% of pancreatic cancer tissues. These results indicate that normal acinar cells of the pancreas are capable of expressing selected carbohydrate structures associated with the initial steps of mucin glycosylation. The marked expression of sialosyl Tn compared with T antigen in pancreatic cancers suggests that with malignant transformation there is selective usage of glycosyltransferase enzymes involved in mucin oligosaccharide synthesis. 
QTc prolongation measured by standard 12-lead electrocardiography is an independent risk factor for sudden death due to cardiac arrest. BACKGROUND. QTc prolongation has been implicated as a risk factor for sudden death; however, a controversy exists over its significance. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the Rotterdam QT Project, 6,693 consecutive patients who underwent 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiography were followed up for 2 years; of these, 245 patients died suddenly. A standard 12-lead electrocardiogram and clinical data at the time of 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiography were collected for all patients who died suddenly and for a random sample of 467 patients from the study cohort. In all patients without an intraventricular conduction defect (176 patients who died suddenly and 390 patients from the sample), QT interval duration was measured in leads I, II, and III and corrected for heart rate with Bazett's formula (QTc). In patients without evidence of cardiac dysfunction (history of symptoms of pump failure or an ejection fraction less than 40%), QTc of more than 440 msec was associated with a 2.3 times higher risk for sudden death compared with a QTc of 440 msec or less (95% confidence interval: 1.4, 3.9). In contrast, in patients with evidence of cardiac dysfunction, the relative risk of QTc prolongation was 1.0 (0.5, 1.9). Adjustment for age, gender, history of myocardial infarction, heart rate, and the use of drugs did not alter these relative risks. CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that in patients without intraventricular conduction defects and cardiac dysfunction, QTc prolongation measured from the standard electrocardiogram is a risk factor for sudden death independent of age, history of myocardial infarction, heart rate, and drug use. In patients with cardiac dysfunction, QTc duration is not related to the risk for sudden death. 
Risk of adverse events in children completing treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia: St. Jude Total Therapy studies VIII, IX, and X. We studied the frequency, causes, and predictors of adverse events in 624 patients who had completed treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in three consecutive total therapy studies (VII, IX, and X, 1972 to 1983). Event-free survival in study X was significantly better overall than that in studies VIII and IX (P less than .0001 by the log-rank test). In study X, 75% of the patients were electively taken off therapy, compared with 54% in studies VIII and IX. However, the risks of having an adverse event during the first 5 years after completion of therapy were remarkably similar: 22% (95% confidence interval, 17% to 29%) in study X versus 24% (20% to 29%) in studies VIII and IX. Bone marrow, testicular, and CNS relapses accounted for the majority of failures in both groups (85% in study X and 92% in studies VIII and IX). Late adverse events consisted largely of hematologic relapses and the development of solid tumors. Black race (P = .001) and leukemia without an anterior mediastinal mass (P = .05) were associated with an increased risk of failure after completion of treatment in the two earlier clinical trials, whereas a lower leukemic cell DNA content (DNA index less than 1.16) was the only predictor of late treatment failure in the more recent trial (P = .019). None of the other presenting features that were examined (eg, age, leukocyte count, and sex) had value as predictors of late failure. Thus, improved treatment altered the impact of specific prognostic factors and the distribution of sites of relapse, but it did not significantly affect the risk of delayed failure. 
An educational device for Mohs micrographic surgery. A three-dimensional model of basal cell carcinoma. Mohs micrographic surgery for skin cancer (fresh-tissue technique) involves the processing of tissue in a complex fashion. The advantages of this method relate to the asymmetric three-dimensional growth of basal cell carcinoma (BCC). A device is described here based on published knowledge about the growth of BCC. The model demonstrates the precise way in which Mohs surgery varies from other surgical approaches to yield higher cure rates in specific circumstances. This device may be helpful in educating residents and medical students about Mohs surgery and in preparing patients for this procedure. 
Ischemic injury to the spinal cord or lumbosacral plexus after aorto-iliac reconstruction. Between January 1, 1980, and June 30, 1989, 9 patients (6 males and 3 females) developed ischemic injury to the spinal cord or lumbosacral plexus following 3,320 operations on the abdominal aorta (0.3%). The incidence of this complication was 0.1% (2 of 1,901) after elective and 1.4% (3 of 210) after emergency abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, and 0.3% (4 of 1,209) after repair for occlusive disease. Three of the latter had prior clinical evidence of distal embolization. Eight grafts were bifurcated (aorto-iliac:four, aorto-femoral: three, aorto-ilio-femoral:one). One patient underwent extra-anatomic revascularization. Only two patients had supraceliac aortic cross-clamping and one patient underwent exclusion of both internal iliac arteries. Four patients had hypotension. Early mortality was 22% (two of nine). Severe perioperative complications, mostly due to associated visceral and somatic ischemia and sepsis, were present in seven of the nine patients. The extent and type of the neurologic injury correlated with long-term outcome. Patients with ischemic injury of the lumbosacral roots or plexus had better recovery. Attention to the pelvic circulation and the collateral blood supply is important. Use of gentle technique to prevent embolization, avoidance of hypotension and prolonged supraceliac cross-clamping, revascularization of at least one internal iliac artery, and the use of heparin may decrease but not eliminate paraplegia. Once this unexpected complication occurs, careful neurologic evaluation should be done to localize the lesion and aid prognosis. 
Agrobacterium radiobacter peritonitis in two patients maintained on chronic peritoneal dialysis. We report two patients with end-stage renal disease maintained on chronic peritoneal dialysis who developed peritonitis in which the infecting organism was Agrobacterium radiobacter, normally a rare pathogen in humans. Both patients initially responded to antibiotics, but later relapsed and required catheter removal. Neither had been exposed to soil or plant material. A radiobacter is yet another of a growing list of unusual organisms that infect the peritoneal cavity of peritoneal dialysis patients. 
Modulating effects of calcium in animal models of colon carcinogenesis and short-term studies in subjects at increased risk for colon cancer. A substantive amount of evidence from animal models supports the hypothesis that dietary fat is an etiological factor in colon cancer. Although various theories account for possible mechanisms, it is clear that under the influence of a basic colonic pH, fatty acids and bile acids may become highly surfactant in the colon, causing cell loss and compensatory hyperproliferation. Calcium likely reduces lipid damage in the colon by complexing with fat to form mineral-fat complexes or soaps. It has been shown in an increasing number of animal experiments that calcium has the ability to inhibit colon cancer. In limited studies in man, the colonic hyperproliferation associated with increased risk for colon cancer has been reversed for short periods by administration of supplemental dietary calcium. Taken together the available evidence suggests that increases in the daily intake of calcium in the diet may provide a means of colorectal-cancer control. 
Cavernous malformations of the brain stem. Once they become symptomatic, cavernous malformations of the brain stem appear to cause progressive morbidity from repetitive hemorrhage, and can even be fatal. Twenty-four patients with long-tract and/or cranial nerve findings from their cavernous malformations of the brain stem were seen for initial evaluation or surgical consultation and thereafter received either surgical or continued conservative treatment. The decision to operate was based on the proximity of the cavernous malformation to the pial surface of the brain stem, the patient's neurological status, and the number of symptomatic episodes. Sixteen patients were treated by definitive surgery directed at excision of their malformation. In four patients, associated venous malformations influenced the surgical approach and their recognition avoided the risk of inappropriate excision of the venous malformation. Although some of the 16 patients had transient, immediate, postoperative worsening of their neurological deficits, the outcome of all except one was the same or improved. Only one patient developed recurrent symptoms: a new deficit 2 1/2 years after surgery required reoperation after regrowth of the cavernous malformation. She has been neurologically stable since the second surgery. One patient died 6 months postoperatively from a shunt infection and sepsis. The eight conservatively treated patients are followed with annual magnetic resonance imaging studies. One has a dramatic associated venous malformation. Seven patients have either minor intermittent or no symptoms, and the eighth died from a hemorrhage 1 year after his initial presentation. Based on these results, surgical extirpation of symptomatic cavernous malformations of the brain stem appears to be the treatment of choice when a patient is symptomatic, the lesion is located superficially, and an operative approach can spare eloquent tissue. When cavernous malformations of the brain stem are completely excised, cure appears permanent. 
A t(4;22) in a meningioma points to the localization of a putative tumor-suppressor gene. Cytogenetic analysis of meningioma cells from one particular patient (MN32) displayed the stem-line karyo-type 45, XY, -1, 4p+, 22q-, 22q+, which thus had rearrangements of both chromosomes 22. The 22q+ marker appeared as a dicentric: 22 pter----q11::1p11----qter. The reciprocal product of this translocation has presumably been lost because it lacked a centromere. The 22q- chromosome also appeared to have lost sequences distal to band q11. We assumed that this marker could have been the result of a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 4 and 22. To investigate the 4p+ and 22q- chromosomes in more detail, human-hamster somatic cell hybrids were constructed that segregated the 22q- and 4p+ chromosomes. Southern blot analysis with DNA from these hybrids showed that sequences from 22q were indeed translocated to 4p+ and that reciprocally sequences from 4p were translocated to 22q-, demonstrating a balanced t(4;22)(p16;q11). On the basis of these results we presume that in this tumor a tumor-suppressor gene is deleted in the case of the 22q+ marker and that the t(4;22) disrupts the second allele of this gene. The latter translocation was mapped between D22S1 and D22S15, a distance of 1 cM on the linkage map of this chromosome. The area in which we have located the translocation is within the region where the gene predisposing to neurofibromatosis 2 has been mapped. 
The rapid and reversible activation of a calcium-independent plasmalogen-selective phospholipase A2 during myocardial ischemia. Recent studies have demonstrated the existence of two members of a novel family of calcium-independent plasmalogen-selective phospholipases A2 in mammalian myocardium (Wolf, R. A., and R. W. Gross. 1985. J. Biol. Chem. 260:7295-7303; and Hazen, S. L., D. A. Ford, and R. W. Gross. 1991. J. Biol. Chem. 266:5629-5633). To examine the potential role of these calcium-independent phospholipases A2 in mediating membrane dysfunction during early myocardial ischemia, the temporal course of alterations in phospholipase A2 activity during global ischemia in Langendorf perfused rabbit hearts was quantified and compared with traditionally accepted markers of myocytic ischemic injury and anaerobic metabolism. We now report that membrane-associated calcium-independent plasmalogen-selective phospholipase A2 activity increased over 400% during 2 min of global ischemia (P less than 0.01), was near maximally activated (greater than 10-fold) after only 5 min of ischemia, and remained activated throughout the entire ischemic interval examined (2-60 min). Activation of membrane-associated plasmalogen-selective phospholipase A2 after 5 min of myocardial ischemia was rapidly reversible during reperfusion of ischemic tissue. Both the activation of phospholipase A2 and its reversibility during reperfusion were temporally correlated to alterations in myocytic anaerobic metabolism. Furthermore, activation of membrane-associated phospholipase A2 was essentially complete before electron microscopic evidence of cellular damage. Collectively, these results identify dynamic alterations in calcium-independent plasmalogen-selective phospholipase A2 activity during myocardial ischemia which precede irreversible cellular injury and demonstrate that activation of plasmalogen-selective phospholipase A2 is amongst the earliest biochemical alterations in ischemic myocardium. 
Reproducibility of quantitative planar thallium-201 scintigraphy: quantitative criteria for reversibility of myocardial perfusion defects. Fifty-two paired stress/delayed planar 201TI studies (27 exercise studies, 25 dipyridamole studies) were processed twice by seven technologists to assess inter- and intraobserver variability. The reproducibility was inversely related to the size of 201TI perfusion abnormalities. Intraobserver variability was not different between exercise and dipyridamole studies for lesions of similar size. Based upon intraobserver variability, objective quantitative criteria for reversibility of perfusion abnormalities were defined. These objective criteria were tested prospectively in a separate group of 35 201TI studies and compared with the subjective interpretation of quantitative circumferential profiles. Overall, exact agreement existed in 78% of images (kappa statistic k = 0.66). We conclude that quantification of planar 201TI scans is highly reproducible, with acceptable inter- and intraobserver variability. Objective criteria for lesion reversibility correlated well with analysis by experienced observers. 
Delays in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction: an overview. Delays in treatment of acute myocardial infarction prevent a substantial portion of patients from receiving maximal benefit from reperfusion therapy. Median delay between onset of symptoms and arrival at the hospital is 2 to 4 hours. Average time between arrival at the hospital and initiation of thrombolytic therapy is 84 minutes. Approximately 50% of patients hospitalized for suspected acute myocardial infarction do not use the emergency medical service system. Delay before treatment can be divided into several components: patient delay, emergency medical service delay, and hospital delay. Factors contributing to delay in each component and possible approaches to decreasing these delays are discussed. The effects of treatment delay on prognosis and future care-seeking behavior of patients hospitalized with suspected acute myocardial infarction are also discussed. 
Na,K-ATPase in isolated nephron segments in rats with experimental heart failure. To characterize renal transport of Na+ in heart failure, urinary Na+ excretion (UNaV), aldosterone levels, and Na,K-ATPase activity in isolated nephron segments were determined in three groups: control rats, rats with heart failure and moderate sodium retention, and rats with heart failure and severe sodium retention. Heart failure was induced by a fistula between the aorta and vena cava. For the control group, UNaV was 0.66 +/- 0.04 (mean +/- SEM) mueq/min, and aldosterone was 18.4 +/- 3.5 ng%. Na,K-ATPase activity (in 10(-11) mol/mm/min) was 28.4 +/- 1.1 in the proximal convoluted tubule, 23.3 +/- 1.0 in the proximal straight tubule, 37.4 +/- 1.9 in the medullary thick ascending limb, 40.2 +/- 1.9 in the cortical thick ascending limb, 43.2 +/- 2.2 in the distal convoluted tubule, and 20.5 +/- 0.9 in the cortical collecting duct. For the group with moderate heart failure, UNaV was 0.35 +/- 0.02 (p less than 0.001 versus control), and aldosterone was 15.9 +/- 4.4 (p = NS versus control). Na,K-ATPase activity was unchanged in the proximal convoluted tubule, proximal straight tubule, medullary thick ascending limb, and cortical collecting duct, but it increased in the cortical thick ascending limb to 57.7 +/- 3.1 (p less than 0.001 versus control) and decreased in the distal convoluted tubule to 35.3 +/- 1.2 (p less than 0.005 versus control). For the group with severe heart failure, UNaV was 0.029 +/- 0.016 (p less than 0.001 versus control), and aldosterone was 186.0 +/- 14.8 (p less than 0.001 versus control). 
The prognosis of Hodgkin's disease in older adults. This investigation was undertaken to assess the apparent poor survival of older patients with Hodgkin's disease. The clinical course of Hodgkin's disease in 136 patients, 60 to 79 years of age, was compared with that of 223 patients, 40 to 59 years of age. The patients registered from November 1977 through December 1983 had not been previously treated, and were treated at eight cancer centers. When the prognosis of all patients was examined by age, a definite change in the pattern of survival first appeared in the 60- to 69-year-old cohort. The entire older group (60 to 79 years) experienced twice the risk of dying from Hodgkin's disease and four times the risk of dying from other causes than did the younger group. In both groups, stage of disease was the strongest factor in predicting adjusted survival. Delay in treatment and advanced stage at presentation were not characteristic of Hodgkin's disease in older patients as has been postulated. Older patients responded to therapy with a similar complete remission rate (84% v 88% in the younger group, P = .24). From this study, we conclude that (1) Hodgkin's disease in the older adult does not have a different natural history, its major risk factors are similar to those known in other age groups, and thus should be amenable to existing therapeutic approaches; and (2) the prognosis of older patients with Hodgkin's disease has been obscured in previous studies by the inclusion of deaths due to other causes in survival estimates. 
Somatostatin, gastrin-releasing peptide and gastrin in the stomach of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes and insulinoma. Somatostatin, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) and gastrin were measured in the stomach of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes, insulinoma-bearing rats and their respective controls. Rats injected with streptozotocin exhibited hyperphagia, insulinopenia and severe hyperglycemia. Stomach weights, and the concentrations and total amounts of GRP and gastrin in the stomach, were similar to nondiabetic control rats. The concentration of somatostatin in the stomach of diabetic rats was 25% greater, but the total stomach content of somatostatin was similar to that of control rats. Insulinoma-bearing rats exhibited hyperphagia, hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia. Concentrations of GRP and gastrin in the stomach were 72% and 19% lower, respectively, than in control rats. Despite 45% greater stomach weight, the total stomach content of GRP was 61% lower. Stomach concentrations of somatostatin, and total stomach contents of somatostatin and gastrin, were similar in insulinoma-bearing and control rats. The results demonstrate abnormalities in the stomach concentrations of regulatory peptides in rats with diabetes and insulinoma. These abnormalities are not attributable to changes in food intake alone, suggesting specific effects of these metabolic diseases on gastric regulatory peptides and gastric function. 
Periorbital hematoma secondary to sinusitis in a child. Periorbital abscess secondary to sinusitis is a well-recognized entity in children. However, subperiosteal hematoma is extremely rare and has been reported in only four adult patients. This article presents the case of a 4-year-old girl with sinusitis, proptosis, and decreased visual acuity. Surgical exploration of the orbit revealed the presence of a large organizing subperiosteal hematoma that was drained. The presence of a periorbital hematoma should be suspected in patients with acute onset of proptosis and findings of a periorbital mass and sinusitis on computed tomographic scan. 
Hypoxia-mediated in vivo release of dopamine in nucleus tractus solitarii of rabbits. A wide variety of neuroactive substances have been suggested to be involved in the respiratory depression observed in response to severe hypoxia. By use of the technique of microdialysis, the release of dopamine (DA) was measured in the nucleus tractus solitarii during severe hypoxic provocations (6% O2 in N2) in the adult pentobarbital-anesthetized rabbit. DA release was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Such hypoxic provocations caused pronounced phase of depression in the phrenic nerve activity and enhanced release of DA. After bilateral carotid sinus nerve denervation, acute severe hypoxia did not give rise to enhanced release of DA or to phrenic nerve depression. Mild hypoxic (9% or 12% O2 in N2) or hypercapnic (6% CO2) stimuli resulted in an increased phrenic nerve activity without any concomitant changes in DA release. Decerebration at the midcollicular level in rabbits prevented an enhanced release of DA in the nucleus tractus solitarii during severe hypoxia. The results suggest that 1) DA is involved in the central ventilatory response to severe hypoxia, 2) not only the initial excitatory but also the second depressive phase in response to severe hypoxia is mediated partially by the peripheral chemoreceptors, and 3) the depressive phase is dependent on intact connections from suprapontine structures. 
Gliomatosis peritonei with malignant transformation: a case report and review of the literature. Gliomatosis peritonei is the implantation of glial tissue within the peritoneal cavity associated with ovarian teratomas. Previous reports have emphasized improved outcomes when these implants are found to be mature, even if the ovarian component is immature. A 16-year-old female with grade 3 immature teratoma was found on two subsequent laparotomies to have extensive peritoneal implantation of mature glial tissue. More than 5 years after the original surgery she was found to have a malignant abdominal glial neoplasm. This case illustrates a rare finding of malignant transformation of previously mature gliomatosis peritonei. 
Glucagon-induced alteration of serum bile acid level in patients with liver cirrhosis. Percent changes in serum total bile acid level after IV administration of 1 mg glucagon were measured in 61 cirrhotics. Thirty-three of 38 cases with Child's grade A disease showed a reduction of total bile acid level at 15 minutes; this level was maintained in the majority of them until 120 minutes. A similar mode of serial changes in total bile acid level was also shown in the cases with Child's grade B disease. On the other hand, only 2 of 10 cases with Child's grade C showed a reduction of total bile acid level at 15 minutes. Reduction of total bile acid level at 15 minutes after glucagon administration was mimicked by infusion of dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate. However, in 3 of 6 cases with elevated total bile acid level at 15 minutes after glucagon administration, dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate induced a reduction of total bile acid level. Also, it was confirmed that glucagon enhances the uptake of taurocholate into freshly isolated rat hepatocytes by activating Na(+)-dependent, carrier-mediated membrane transport system and observed that its effect is associated with elevation of Vmax (0.6114 nmol.min-1 x 10(6) cells-1 without glucagon; 0.975 nmol.min-1 x 10(6) cells-1 in glucagon added) but not with affecting Km (13.58 mumol/L without glucagon; 13.71 mumol/L with glucagon) or protein synthesis which is inhibited by cycloheximide. These observations suggest that glucagon enhances Na(+)-coupled membrane transport of bile acids in the liver and causes the reduction of serum total bile acid level and that a lack of this response may be indicative of membrane dysfunction in the liver. 
Chimeric BCR-abl messenger RNA as a marker for minimal residual disease in patients transplanted for Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We correlated polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-detectable BCR-abl fusion transcripts with cytogenetic status in 24 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Of 10 Philadelphia chromosome negative (Ph-) patients, only one was found to exhibit a BCR-abl fusion transcript. Fourteen patients with Ph+ ALL, including eight in clinical remission, exhibited PCR-detectable BCR-abl rearrangements. A detectable Ph chromosome was present in only five of the eight patients in clinical remission. Of the three cytogenetically negative, BCR-abl-positive patients, two eventually succumbed to post-bone marrow transplantation (BMT) relapse. The third died of early transplant complications. Serial PCR analyses were performed on four Ph+ ALL patients in clinical remission who underwent allogeneic BMT. One patient who was PCR negative on post-BMT days 21 and 75 became PCR-positive on day 116 and died in relapse on day 154. One patient was weakly positive for BCR-abl on day 23, negative on day 56, but died of transplant complications on day 124. Two patients exhibited no post-BMT BCR-abl rearrangements and remain well on days 279 and 371. Our findings suggest that PCR analysis may be useful in the early identification of relapse in patients transplanted for Ph+ ALL. 
Bilateral internal mammary artery grafts in reoperative and primary coronary bypass surgery Bilateral internal mammary artery grafting is recognized as a preferred method of myocardial revascularization. However, its efficacy in coronary bypass reoperation has not been clearly established. From January 1982 through June 1989, 88 patients underwent coronary bypass reoperation with bilateral internal mammary artery grafts. Results were compared with those for a subset of 88 patients receiving primary revascularization with bilateral internal mammary artery grafts who were computer matched for sex, age, left ventricular function, anginal classification, and left main coronary artery disease. In each group, 62.5% (55 patients) had unstable angina, 43.2% (38 patients) had reduced ejection fraction, and 21.6% (19 patients) in the reoperation group and 20.5% (18 patients) in the reference group had left main coronary artery disease. Hospital mortality for the reoperation group was 6.8% (6 patients) and for the reference group, 3.4% (3 patients). No significant difference was found in the incidence of reoperation for bleeding, sternal infection, or stroke in the two groups. The incidence of respiratory insufficiency in the reoperation group was 13.6% (12 patients) and in the reference group, 3.4% (3 patients) (p less than 0.015). Recurrent angina occurred in 13.7% (10 patients) of patients in the reoperation group and 13.3% (10 patients) in the reference group. The long-term survival at 5 years for the reoperation group was 85.3% +/- 5.6% (+/- standard error of the mean) and for the reference group, 91.6% +/- 3.1%. No significant difference was found in the equality of survival distribution for the two groups. 
Occurrence of neoplasia in patients with rheumatoid arthritis enrolled in a DMARD Registry. Rheumatoid Arthritis Azathioprine Registry Steering Committee. The Rheumatoid Arthritis Azathioprine Registry (RAAR) was established in 1982 to examine the safety of azathioprine (AZA) and other disease modifying agents (DMARD) in the treatment of RA. In yearly followup over the past 7 years, 20 malignant conditions have been reported in 530 DMARD treated adult patients with RA. Incidence density ratios (IDR) and standardized morbidity ratios (SMR) were calculated to assess cancer risk. For all cancers the SMR was 1.52 (95% CI 0.90-2.60). For men the SMR was 1.71 (95% CI 0.84-3.52); for women the SMR was 1.52 (95% CI 0.89-2.60). Adjusted for age, the IDR was highest in the 70-79-year-old study population (3.41). The age and sex adjusted SMR for lymphoproliferative disorders and myeloma was 8.05 (95% CI 3.30-20.81). The SMR for lung cancer (n = 6) was also increased (3.37; 95% CI 1.58-7.34). Compared with the general population, patients with RA requiring DMARD therapy may be at increased risk of malignancy, particularly lymphoproliferative disorders. The RAAR is an important prospective technique which will ultimately permit assessment of neoplasia risk by type and duration of DMARD therapy. 
Adenosine in myocardial perfusion imaging using positron emission tomography. Because of its unique ability to demonstrate the metabolic consequences of myocardial ischemia, positron emission tomography (PET) is extremely valuable in assessing myocardial viability. PET imaging can identify the myocardial segments that are likely to improve after revascularization and may be more sensitive and specific for the detection of coronary artery disease compared with thallium perfusion imaging. Adenosine has several advantages over dipyridamole as a pharmacologic stress agent for use with PET. It produces maximal vasodilation in a significantly greater percentage of patients, is a more potent coronary vasodilator, and its very short half-life may be ideal for use with the very short half-life radioactive tracers used in PET. When combined with metabolic studies, adenosine may be useful for the assessment of patients who received thrombolytic therapy for an acute myocardial infarction. 
Colovesical fistula secondary to vesical gangrene in a diabetic patient. We present a case of colovesical fistula secondary to vesical gangrene. Precipitating factors were diabetes and vesical distension caused by the obstruction of an indwelling catheter. This complication is an exceptional outcome in gangrenous cystitis and it requires emergency surgical treatment. 
Beneficial effect of the atrial natriuretic factor analog A68828 in postischemic acute renal failure. Short-term administration of atrial peptides has been reported to improve renal function in several animal models of acute renal failure. We designed experiments that determined the effect of a 13-amino acid analog of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), A68828, on renal function in the postischemic model of acute renal failure. Experiments were conducted using euvolemic, male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250 g) under Inactin anesthesia. Acute renal failure was induced by complete occlusion of both renal arteries for 30 min. After release of the clamp, vehicle (0.1% bovine serum albumin in saline), A68828 (3, 10 or 30 micrograms/kg/min), dopamine (10 micrograms/kg/min), A68828 (10 micrograms/kg/min) plus dopamine (10 micrograms/kg/min) or ANF (1-28) (0.5 micrograms/kg/min) were infused i.v. for a 2-h period. A68828 at 10 micrograms/kg/min produced a significant increase in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) compared with vehicle controls (0.39 +/- 0.08 vs. 0.19 +/- 0.04 ml/min/100 g; P less than .05) despite a lower arterial pressure (87 +/- 5 vs. 101 +/- 5 mm Hg; P less than .05). A subpressor dose of dopamine had no effect on GFR during the postischemic period (0.25 +/- 0.11 ml/min/100 g). Dopamine in combination with A68828 prevented the decrease in arterial pressure seen with A68828 alone but did not potentiate the beneficial effects on GFR (0.28 +/- 0.05 ml/min/100 g). ANF (1-28) at 0.5 micrograms/kg/min increased GFR to levels nearly identical to those induced by A68828 (0.40 +/- 0.04 ml/min/100 g). These results indicate that infusion of a reduced-size analog of ANF improves renal function in the immediate postischemic period. Furthermore, prevention of the hypotensive effects of the analog with dopamine provides no additional beneficial effect. 
Clear cell cribriform hyperplasia of the prostate. Immunohistochemical and DNA flow cytometric study. Clear cell cribriform hyperplasia (CCCH) of the prostate is an unusual form of benign prostatic hyperplasia characterized by a nodular proliferation of clear cells with small, uniform nuclei. The authors studied 15 cases of CCCH by immunohistochemistry and 13 of them by DNA flow cytometry to establish the immunohistochemical and DNA profile of this lesion. Patients ranged in age from 58 to 88 years (mean, 68 years). Follow-up of a mean of 22 months showed all patients alive with no evidence of malignant prostatic disease. All 13 CCCHs showed diploid DNA content; in contrast, among 4 papillary/cribriform carcinomas of the prostate used for comparison, 3 were aneuploid and 1 was diploid. A basal cell layer was demonstrated in all 15 CCCHs by the use of the 34 beta E12 anti-high-molecular-weight keratin antibody (EAB-903) that reacts with the basal cells but not with the acinar cells of the prostate. A continuous basal cell layer was not evident in the carcinomas. The blandness of the epithelium, the well-defined nodular configuration, the presence of a basal cell layer demonstrable by immunocytochemistry, and the lack of aneuploidy as determined by DNA flow cytometry together lend support to the concept that CCCH is a benign lesion. 
Cramp-fasciculation syndrome: a treatable hyperexcitable peripheral nerve disorder. We report nine patients with muscle aching, cramps, stiffness, exercise intolerance, and peripheral nerve hyperexcitability. Neurologic examination showed calf fasciculations in seven, quadriceps myokymia in two, and deltoid myokymia in one patient. Two patients had mild increase in serum creatine kinase. Muscle biopsy showed either no abnormality (three patients) or mild neurogenic changes (four patients). Fasciculations were the only abnormality on routine electrodiagnostic studies. Supramaximal stimulation of the median, ulnar, peroneal, and posterior tibial nerves at frequencies of 0.5, 1, 2, and 5 Hz produced showers of electrical potentials following the M response in at least one nerve. In three patients, the fasciculations and evoked electrical potentials were abolished by regional application of curare but not nerve block. Carbamazepine therapy caused moderate-to-marked reduction of symptoms and nerve hyperexcitability. We designate this hyperexcitable peripheral nerve disorder as the "cramp-fasciculation syndrome.". 
Acid peptic disease in adolescents. How to avoid misdiagnosis and undertreatment. Acid peptic disease in adolescents may be more common than previously recognized. However, appropriate medical attention is often delayed because of misdiagnosis and undertreatment. Thorough questioning of adolescent patients is important to elicit a complete description of symptoms. Endoscopy or intraluminal pH monitoring may be necessary to establish a diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease or peptic ulcer. Therapy with histamine receptor antagonists, especially ranitidine (Zantac), is recommended. Antireflux surgery may be needed to prevent potential long-term gastrointestinal damage. Patients with duodenal ulcer should also be advised to make life-style changes to avoid recurrence of disease later in life. 
Regimen compliance two years after myocardial infarction. Two-years postinfarction, the effect of a nursing intervention at 30 days postinfarction, and intentions, attitudes, and perceived beliefs of others on regimen compliance of myocardial infarction patients was investigated. The sample was comprised of 51 patients (E = 29, C = 22) who participated in a five-phase study over 2 years. No differences were found between experimental and control groups for regimen compliance to activity, stress, and medication prescriptions. The experimental group was significantly more compliant to the diet prescription than the control group. The control group was significantly more compliant than the experimental group with cessation from smoking. Perceived beliefs of others were predictive of compliance for all regimen prescriptions at 2 years. Attitude was also predictive of compliance with the diet, smoking, and stress regimens. 
Allergic reactions to long-term benzathine penicillin prophylaxis for rheumatic fever. International Rheumatic Fever Study Group. 1790 patients from 11 countries were enrolled in a prospective international study to determine the incidence of allergic reactions to monthly intramuscular benzathine penicillin (penicillin G benzathine) injections to prevent recurrences of rheumatic fever. After 32,430 injections during 2736 patient years of observation, 57 of the 1790 patients (3.2%) had an allergic reaction. 4 had anaphylaxis, an incidence of 0.2% (1.2/10,000 injections), all in patients over 12 years of age, and 1 patient died, a fatality incidence of 0.05% (0.31/10,000 injections). These rates are similar to those described for patients without rheumatic fever who receive short-term treatment with parenteral penicillin. Rheumatic fever recurred in 8 of 1790 patients (0.45%) who received benzathine penicillin prophylaxis compared with 11 of 96 (11.5%) who did not comply with treatment. Life-threatening allergic reactions are rare in patients on long-term parenteral benzathine penicillin to prevent recurrences of rheumatic fever; the long-term benefits of such prophylaxis by far outweigh the risk of a serious allergic reaction. 
Blood flow reactivity to hypercapnia in strictly unilateral carotid disease: preliminary results. To show relationship between degree of carotid arterial stenosis and cerebral blood flow reactivity (RES%) to induced hypercapnia, fluorine-18-fluoromethane and positron emission tomography (PET) was used to study 18 patients with carotid distribution transient ischaemic attacks (TIA), all free of stroke, who had angiographic-proven unilateral arterial disease. Non-involved carotid arteries were either normal or had non-stenotic plaque. Either normal arteries or nonstenotic ulcerations in the symptomatic carotid arteries were present in five of 18 (28%), ipsilateral carotid stenosis from 50-99% was present in eight of 18 (44%), and ipsilateral internal carotid occlusion was present in five of 18 (28%) patients. In comparison with 14 normal controls, all patients with symptomatic middle cerebral artery (MCA) flow territories had significantly lower mean (SEM) RES% [5.0' (0.2) vs 4.0 (0.9), p less than 0.04]. Symptomatic anterior borderzone (ABZ) RES% was also significantly lower [4.6 (0.4) vs 3.3 (0.9), p less than 0.04], than controls. In patient subgroup comparisons, the 50-99% stenosis subgroup clearly had the lowest MCA RES% [3.4 (0.2)] as well as the lowest ABZ RES% [2.8 (0.4)] on their symptomatic sides. Age, expired pCO2, mean arterial blood pressure, serum glucose, serum haematocrit and number, type and estimated duration of TIAs were not significantly different between subgroups. Linear regression showed a significant relationship between RES% and both measured percentage-stenosis (p = 0.04) and residual luminal diameter (p = 0.05) in symptomatic MCA territories. This approached significance in symptomatic ABZ regions. This preliminary data set suggests that unilateral carotid stenosis can and does result in impaired CO2 reactivity following hypercapnia. 
Protein kinase C is involved in PTH-induced homologous desensitization by directly affecting PTH receptor in the osteoblastic osteosarcoma cells. We have investigated mechanisms of PTH-induced homologous desensitization reflected in the refractoriness of cAMP response to the second exposure to PTH in the clonal rat osteosarcoma cell line, UMR-106. Preincubation with 10(-7) M rat (r) PTH-(1-34) for 6 h caused the desensitization, resulting in a 65% decrease in cAMP accumulation in response to further exposure to rPTH. This desensitization was apparent at 10(-10) M rPTH and maximal at 10(-7) M rPTH. UMR-106 cells treated with protein kinase C (PK-C) activating phorbol ester, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 10(-6) M) for 6 h also induced desensitization manifested by a loss of rPTH-stimulated cAMP accumulation to 50% of that in the control cells. On the other hand, 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate, incapable of activating PK-C, failed to induce desensitization. Fifty micromolar H-7 (PK-C inhibitor) significantly blocked both rPTH- and PMA-induced desensitization. Thus, PK-C seemed to play a major role in rPTH-induced desensitization. Pretreatment with neither rPTH nor PMA changed the cAMP responsiveness to 10 micrograms/ml cholera toxin or 100 microM forskolin. Islet activating protein failed to influence the desensitization in this cell line. PTH receptor binding, assessed by using 125I-labeled [Nle8,Nle18,Tyr34]PTH-(1-34) as a radioligand, was decreased along with PTH receptor numbers by pretreatment with rPTH or PMA. These data indicate that rPTH-induced homologous desensitization occurs at least in part through the activation of PK-C and that PK-C directly affects PTH receptor in UMR-106 cells. 
The benefit of the Hemonetics cell saver apparatus during cardiac surgery. This retrospective chart review of 155 patients having coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) over a two-month period determined whether the use of a cell saver apparatus (CSA) (1) reduced or increased the requirements for homologous blood; (2) increased the incidence of post-surgical bleeding; (3) was cost-effective. Two groups of patients were identified. Group 1 (n = 99) received both CSA processed red blood cells and homologous blood components. Requirement for homologous blood products was reduced in the first 24 hr after surgery (0.5 +/- 1.0 vs 1.3 +/- 1.8 units; P less than 0.05) when compared with Group 2 (n = 56) in whom only homologous blood products were utilized. More patients in Group 1 had no transfusion requirements (45 vs 8; P less than 0.05) and there was no increased risk of major haemorrhage. When the capital costs are included, utilization of the CSA was not cost-effective. We conclude that utilisation of a CSA was safe, with no increased risk of bleeding, reduced requirements for homologous blood transfusions, but added to the cost of the procedure. 
Abnormal responses to orthostatic testing in children and adolescents with recurrent unexplained syncope. Syncope in the pediatric age group is a frequent event. Most often the cause is readily apparent--i.e., orthostatic hypotension or a vasovagal event. However, there are a large number of children with frequent recurrent unexplained syncope. Neither history, physical examination, nor standard testing reveals a cause. One hundred four consecutive patients were evaluated by orthostatic testing after standard methods found no cause for the recurrent syncope. Forty-seven (44%) of these 104 patients had syncope produced by orthostatic testing. Twenty-six of the 47 (55%) became syncopal within 5 minutes of testing initiation and 21 of the 47 (45%) after 5 to 11 minutes of testing. These patients had an average decrease of 81.5 mm Hg in blood pressure and a 25 beat/min decrease in heart rate. Of 12 control subjects, none lost consciousness with standing times as long as 14 minutes. Pacing was ineffective in preventing syncope, as two patients with a previously implanted normally functioning pacemaker had recurrent syncope clinically. Syncope was also induced by orthostatic testing, with the pacemaker showing a normal response with pacing as the patient became bradycardic. The syncopal event produced by orthostatic testing occurred with a downward blood pressure trend and a narrowing of the pulse pressure without a significant increase in heart rate. This was followed by a sudden drop in blood pressure and then by bradycardia. There is a group of children and adolescents with recurrent unexplained syncope due to abnormal orthostatic control mechanisms. Orthostatic testing appears helpful in identifying these patients. 
Lumbar epidural diamorphine following thoracic surgery. A comparison of infusion and bolus administration. Twenty-two patients received a single dose of diamorphine 5 mg through a lumbar epidural catheter before thoracic surgery. The patients were transferred after surgery to a high dependency unit where they were allocated randomly to receive either an infusion of epidural diamorphine at a rate of 1 mg/hour (group 1) or bolus doses of epidural diamorphine 5 mg on demand (group 2). There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in visual analogue pain scores in the first 18 postoperative hours. Arterial carbon dioxide tension was elevated in both groups and was consistently higher in group 1 than in group 2, with a statistically significant intergroup difference 12 hours after operation. Respiratory rate was not a useful index of respiratory depression. The commonest nonrespiratory side effect was urinary retention, but the incidences of this and other minor side effects were similar in the two groups. 
Carcinoma of the prostate: MR images obtained with body coils do not accurately reflect tumor volume. MR imaging with a body coil is unreliable in directly demonstrating tumor spread through the prostatic capsule. However, the likelihood of extracapsular spread of prostatic cancer rises with increasing tumor volume. The aim of our study was to assess the accuracy of MR with a body coil in diagnosing capsular penetration indirectly via an estimation of prostatic tumor volumes. Twenty-six patients with proved prostatic cancer that was clinically confined to the gland underwent MR imaging before radical prostatectomy and whole-mount pathologic sectioning of the specimen. Twenty of 31 lesions prospectively outlined on the MR images corresponded to cancers outlined on the pathology slides, and tumor volumes were calculated by using a voxel summation technique. On MR, tumor volume was underestimated in 11 of 20 cases and overestimated in nine of 20 cases. Only two of 20 size estimates based on MR findings were within 10% of actual tumor volume. Overlap in MR tumor volumes was significant between lesions with and without capsular penetration at microscopy. Factors contributing to inaccuracies in measurements of tumor volume on MR images included the variable histologic make-up of the tumors. Our results show that, although knowledge of the size of a prostatic lesion is important in predicting the behavior of the tumor, MR imaging with a body coil is not reliable for accurate estimation of tumor volume. 
Purification of parathyroid hypertensive factor from plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Parathyroid hypertensive factor (PHF) is a newly described hypertensive factor that may be related to elevation of blood pressure in 30-40% of North American essential hypertensive patients. PHF is also found in several animal models of hypertension, including spontaneously hypertensive rats, and deoxycorticosterone acetate salt hypertensive rats. Plasma collected from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was used in the present study for purification of PHF. Plasma was dialyzed at a molecular mass cutoff of 1 kDa, and then ultrafiltered at a molecular mass cutoff of 5 kDa. PHF activity, as determined by bioassay (characteristic delayed hypertensive response in normotensive rat) was retained in the fraction that was greater than 1 kDa and less than 5 kDa. Dialyzed and ultrafiltered SHR plasma was fractionated by molecular-exclusion chromatography, either with Bio-Gel P-6 liquid chromatography, or TSK 2000 SW HPLC. The biological activity was detected in a discrete region corresponding to a molecular mass of 2.5-3 kDa. When the molecular-exclusion fraction was subsequently fractionated by reverse-phase HPLC, biological activity was located in a single discrete peak, which did not occur in plasma from normotensive rats prepared in a similar manner. The biologically active fraction of PHF was inactivated by trypsin; this and its UV spectrum indicate the presence of a peptide structure. 
Nasal schwannoma. A 36-year-old man with a nasal septal mass is presented. The diagnosis of a benign neoplasm arising from peripheral nerve Schwann cells was made by excisional biopsy. A benign nerve sheath tumor may be either a schwannoma or neurofibroma. Schwannomas may be distinguished from neurofibroma by clinical and histologic criteria. Malignant degeneration and intracranial extension may complicate the course of a nasal schwannoma. Complete excision is the preferred therapy. 
Essential fatty acid deficiency associated with the use of a medium-chain-triglyceride infant formula in pediatric hepatobiliary disease. Serum phospholipid fatty acid patterns were determined by gas chromatography in four infants with hepatobiliary disease receiving a formula with a high content of medium-chain-triglyceride (MCT) oil. All four infants demonstrated signs of essential fatty acid deficiency, characterized by decreased arachidonic acid and increased palmitoleic and oleic acids. All had substantial concentrations of the pathologic triene 5,8,11-eicosatrienoic acid. Three of four had decreased linoleic acid concentrations and abnormal ratios of triene to tetraene (5,8,11-eicosatrienoic acid: arachidonic acid), greater than 0.38. One patient may have experienced growth failure due to abnormal essential fatty acid status. Infants with the potential for fat malabsorption should only receive MCT-oil feedings with well above the generally recommended requirements for linoleic acid (3% of total caloric intake). 
Postoperative infusional continuous regional analgesia. A technique for relief of postoperative pain following major extremity surgery. A new technique using postoperative infusional continuous regional analgesia (PICRA) for postoperative pain relief was investigated in 23 surgical patients treated by amputation (12 patients) or by limb-salvage resection operations (11 patients). Bupivacaine was delivered into peripheral nerve sheaths via catheters placed therein at the time of surgery. Only patients in whom the nerves were easily accessible were treated. Catheters were placed in the axillary sheath, the lumbosacral trunk, and the femoral nerve sheaths of patients treated with shoulder girdle and pelvic procedures (resections and amputations), and within the sciatic nerve sheath of those treated with lower extremity procedures. The anesthetic agent was delivered at controllable rates. Regional analgesia was obtained in the operative site with minimal motor or sensory decrease. To assess the efficacy of this technique, the results of this study group were compared with those of a matched group of 11 patients treated with similar surgical procedures but who received epidural morphine. Eleven of the 23 patients on PICRA required no supplemental narcotic agents. The mean level of the narcotic agents required by the remaining 13 PICRA patients was approximately one third of that required by the matched group of 11 patients receiving epidural morphine. Overall, the patients on PICRA had an 80% reduction of narcotic requirements when compared to the historical controls. The technique is reliable and can be performed by the surgeon, requiring about a ten-minute increase in operating time. It has potentially wide application in orthopedics in procedures in which the major nerves are easily accessible (e.g., pelvic fractures and revision hip surgery) and for patients with intractable pain of the extremities. 
Extracellular binding sites of IgA anti-jejunal antibodies on normal small bowel detected by indirect immunoelectronmicroscopy. Patients with dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) have IgA deposition in the papillary dermis and in the lamina propria of the small bowel. In addition, most of DH patients' sera contain IgA class anti-reticulin antibodies, anti-endomysium antibodies (EMA), and anti-jejunal antibodies (JAB) during times of gluten intake. In previous studies, JAB and EMA seemed to be identical and related to the group of anti-reticulin antibodies. In the present study, pre-embedding en bloc immunoelectronmicroscopic methods were applied for analysis of the ultrastructural binding sites of JAB on monkey and rabbit small bowels. These substrates were incubated with sera from DH patients strongly positive for JAB. Simultaneous investigations with the PAP technique and with 5 nm gold-labeled protein A or second antibodies visualized the bound IgA identically: it was associated with collagen fibrils underlying the epithelial and cryptal basement membranes and with collagen fibrils around capillaries. Staining was also detected along the endomysial collagen fibrils of smooth muscle layers, around elastica and smooth muscle cells of blood vessel walls, and along collagen fibrils near smooth muscle cells in the lamina propria. Neither the peroxidase product nor gold deposition was detected directly on the fibers, but was associated with amorphous material surrounding collagen fibers of different diameters. The distribution of JAB-stained structures corresponded to the localization of reticulin network of the small bowel. Our data indicate that JAB recognize an antigen or antigens associated with an amorphous component of the reticulin-collagen structure of jejunum and may have identical binding sites, as anti-reticulin antibodies and EMA. 
Amenorrhoea in women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease. Amenorrhoea is common in women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease, but little is known about its causes or consequences. We investigated 12 young women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease and amenorrhoea and compared them with 11 healthy age matched controls studied in the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. None of the patients had raised serum concentrations of follicle stimulating hormone suggesting primary gonadal failure, but the variance in serum concentrations of testosterone, oestradiol, prolactin, and luteinising hormone were significantly greater in chronic liver disease patients than control subjects (p less than 0.01). Seven of the 12 chronic liver disease patients had low serum luteinising hormone concentrations, and compared with controls these patients also had significantly reduced median values of oestradiol (64 pmol/l), testosterone (1.1 nmol/l), and follicle stimulating hormone, and were significantly underweight as assessed by skinfold thickness measurements (all comparisons p less than 0.025). In the group with chronic liver disease skinfold thickness was significantly correlated with serum luteinising hormone (p less than 0.02). The five patients with normal serum luteinising hormone had higher median values of both oestradiol (237 pmol/l) and testosterone (3.0 nmol/l) than the control subjects (oestradiol: 113 pmol/l, testosterone: 1.9 nmol/l) but were not more obese or hirsute. Amenorrhoea was unrelated to the duration or severity of liver disease. The metacarpal cortical bone area (an index of bone density) was inversely related to the duration of amenorrhoea (p less than 0.02). We conclude that amenorrhoea in women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease arises from hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction and can occur at any stage. 
Computer-assisted superimposition of magnetic resonance and high-resolution technetium-99m-HMPAO and thallium-201 SPECT images of the brain. A method for registering three-dimensional CT, MR, and PET data sets that require no special patient immobilization or other precise positioning measures was adapted to high-resolution SPECT and MRI and was applied in 14 subjects (five normal volunteers, four patients with dementia (Alzheimer's disease), two patients with recurrent glioblastoma, and three patients with focal lesions (stroke, arachnoid cyst and head trauma]. T2-weighted axial magnetic resonance images and transaxial 99mTc-HMPAO and 201Tl images acquired with an annular gamma camera were merged using an objective registration (translation, rotation and rescaling) program. In the normal subjects and patients with dementia and focal lesions, focal areas of high uptake corresponded to gray matter structures. Focal lesions observed on MRI corresponded to perfusion defects on SPECT. In the patients who had undergone surgical resection of glioblastoma followed by interstitial brachytherapy, increased 201Tl corresponding to recurrent tumor could be localized from the superimposed images. The method was evaluated by measuring the residuals in all subjects and translational errors due to superimposition of deep structures in the 12 subjects with normal thalamic anatomy and 99mTc-HMPAO uptake. This method for superimposing magnetic resonance and high-resolution SPECT images of the brain is a useful technique for correlating regional function with brain anatomy. 
Survival of patients with dementia. The evidence on survival in dementia is summarized. There are no reliable data on survival after onset of dementia or after first contact with medical services. People with dementia in outpatient clinics and nursing homes have 2-year survival rates of 75% (range 60%-95%) and 50% (range 30%-65%), respectively. Differences in survival between patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT) and multi infarct dementia (MID) are small. Women in nursing homes have a better prognosis than men (2-year survival rates, 60% vs 40%). Dementia patients have a considerable excess mortality when compared to the vital statistics. There is no evidence for improvement of survival rates during recent decades. Recommendations for future studies are made. 
Percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty of lesions not ideal for balloon angioplasty BACKGROUND. Excimer laser coronary angioplasty is a new, investigational technique for treating coronary artery stenoses. Initial reports have demonstrated acute efficacy and relative safety of this procedure, but have not addressed the effect of lesion type on acute success and complication rates. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the first 100 patients undergoing percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty at our institution, acute laser success was obtained in 84% and procedural success was obtained in 94%. There were six acute closures during laser angioplasty and one myocardial infarction. Two patients required emergency coronary bypass surgery. Sixty-five percent of patients had lesions not ideal for balloon angioplasty because of lesion morphology (tubular, diffuse, or chronic total occlusion) or ostial location. There were 10 tubular stenoses, 29 diffuse lesions, 18 chronic total occlusions, and eight ostial lesions, including five aorto-ostial lesions. In this nonideal subgroup, the acute success rate with laser was 86% (72% of chronic total occlusions and 91% of non-totally occluded lesions), and the procedural success rate was 94%. There were three acute occlusions during laser angioplasty but no myocardial infarctions, emergency bypass surgeries, or deaths. One coronary artery perforation occurred without clinical sequelae. Laser angioplasty was successful in four of six lesions (67%) in which balloon angioplasty had failed. Laser success was obtained in 10 of 11 (91%) moderately or heavily calcified stenoses. Eight eccentric lesions and two lesions on bends were successfully treated without dissection or perforation. No side branch occlusions occurred in the 15 patients in whom one or more major branches originated within the lesion treated. Adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed in 47% of cases, usually to obtain a larger final luminal diameter. Need for adjunctive balloon angioplasty decreased to 36% after a larger (2.0 mm) laser catheter became available. Twenty-eight percent of the 105 lesions treated were American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association classification type A, 47% were type B, and 25% were type C. Laser and procedural successes were obtained in 83% and 97% of type A, 88% and 96% of type B, and 85% and 88% of type C lesions, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. In our initial experience, excimer laser angioplasty was found to be acutely effective and safe therapy for lesions identified as not ideal for balloon angioplasty. This technique may provide a useful adjunct or alternative to balloon angioplasty in selected patients. 
The postmenopausal adnexal mass: correlation between ultrasonic and pathologic findings. One hundred two postmenopausal women underwent ultrasonographic evaluation of adnexal masses before surgery. Twenty-nine (28%) had malignant tumors and 73 (72%) had benign tumors. Two of 33 patients with a "simple cyst" smaller than 5 cm in diameter by ultrasound had malignant ovarian tumors. Twenty-two of the 52 women (42%) with "complex masses" by ultrasound and five of the 17 (29%) with solid tumors had ovarian cancer. For predicting malignancy in ovarian tumors, abdominal ultrasonography had a positive predictive value of 39% and a negative predictive value of 94%. If a negative sonogram had been relied upon, 6% of malignant ovarian tumors in postmenopausal women might have been missed. 
A comparison of enalapril with hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure BACKGROUND. To define better the efficacy of vasodilator therapy in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure, we compared the effects of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate with those of enalapril in 804 men receiving digoxin and diuretic therapy for heart failure. The patients were randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to receive 20 mg of enalapril daily or 300 mg of hydralazine plus 160 mg of isosorbide dinitrate daily. The latter regimen was identical to that used with a similar patient population in the effective-treatment arm of our previous Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial. RESULTS. Mortality after two years was significantly lower in the enalapril arm (18 percent) than in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate arm (25 percent) (P = 0.016; reduction in mortality, 28.0 percent), and overall mortality tended to be lower (P = 0.08). The lower mortality in the enalapril arm was attributable to a reduction in the incidence of sudden death, and this beneficial effect was more prominent in patients with less severe symptoms (New York Heart Association class I or II). In contrast, body oxygen consumption at peak exercise was increased only by hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate treatment (P less than 0.05), and left ventricular ejection fraction, which increased with both regimens during the 2 years after randomization, increased more (P less than 0.05) during the first 13 weeks in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate group. CONCLUSIONS. The similar two-year mortality in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate arms in our previous Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial (26 percent) and in the present trial (25 percent), as compared with that in the placebo arm in the previous trial, (34 percent) and the further survival benefit with enalapril in the present trial (18 percent) strengthen the conclusion that vasodilator therapy should be included in the standard treatment for heart failure. The different effects of the two regimens (enalapril and hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate) on mortality and physiologic end points suggest that the profile of effects might be enhanced if the regimens were used in combination. 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia after heart transplantation. Five patients with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia after heart transplantation are reported. Four had severe clinical symptoms, whereas 1 was asymptomatic. Mechanical ventilatory support was necessary in 1 because of respiratory distress. Pneumocystis carinii infection developed in 4 patients within the first 4 postoperative months, and 1 patient had clinical disease 1 year after transplantation with a recurrence 9 months later. All were treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole either orally or intravenously (10 to 20 mg.kg-1.day-1 of trimethoprim). All patients recovered from infection and received the same drug prophylactically for 2 to 20 months after the infection. All patients are doing well after Pneumocystis carinii infection except 1 who died after an acute myocardial infarction 4 years after infection. We conclude that trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is an effective agent for the treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia after heart transplantation. 
Detection of single copies of Epstein-Barr virus in paraffin wax sections by non-radioactive in situ hybridisation. A highly sensitive non-isotopic in situ hybridisation technique was developed for the localisation of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in paraffin wax embedded tissue sections. The method uses a repeated sequence of the EBV genome as a probe, labelled with the novel reporter molecule, digoxigenin. The method can identify individual copies of EBV by detection of both EBV DNA and highly localised RNA transcripts. A combination of careful proteolytic digestion of tissue sections, high temperature denaturation of probe and target DNA, and sensitive immunocytochemical detection are used to attain single copy sensitivity. The technique is quicker and simpler to perform than some other methods used for the identification of EBV, and provides simultaneous morphological information which cannot be obtained by methods using tissue extracts. This method permits the investigation of the role of EBV in neoplastic conditions of lymphoid and epithelial cells, and may prove valuable in determining the sites of latent virus in healthy subjects. 
Intrathoracic meningocele associated with neurofibromatosis: case report. The authors present a case of intrathoracic meningocele associated with neurofibromatosis. Computed tomography with metrizamide myelography proved valuable in locating the lesion, thus facilitating surgical intervention. With the preoperative diagnosis established and the severity of the meningocele known, the surgeons safely employed a subpleural approach at thoracotomy. 
Mechanism of cyclosporine-induced hypertension. Cyclosporine is a common immunosuppressive agent used in solid organ and bone marrow transplants and the treatment of some immunological diseases. It has been established that treatment with cyclosporine can cause a patient to develop hypertension within a few weeks of treatment. This review will examine this effect and effective ways to treat it. 
Mucosal and systemic IgA anti-gliadin antibody in celiac disease. Contrasting patterns of response in serum, saliva, and intestinal secretions. Serum IgA anti-gliadin antibody estimation is a recognized screening method for celiac disease. However, celiac disease is primarily a small intestinal mucosal disorder, and so we have examined the possibility that secreted, mucosal IgA anti-gliadin antibody might provide a more relevant measure of gluten sensitivity than that obtained from serum tests. Serum IgA anti-gliadin antibody and serum, salivary, and small intestinal aspirate IgA anti-gliadin antibody were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Serum IgA and IgG anti-gliadin antibody were markedly increased in untreated celiacs (N = 31) as compared to normals (N = 20) or disease controls (N = 39) (P less than 0.0001). Levels were lower in treated (N = 30) than untreated celiacs (P less than 0.001). In intestinal aspirates both untreated and treated patients had similar levels of IgA anti-gliadin antibody (P = 0.48), but both were significantly higher than in controls (P less than 0.01). Salivary IgA anti-gliadin antibody, by contrast, was not increased in celiac patients as compared to controls. Serum IgA anti-gliadin antibody was the most sensitive (84%) and specific (95%) test for detecting untreated celiac disease. It was also the most useful in patient follow-up where it provides an early objective indicator of adherence to a gluten-free diet. Mucosal IgA responses to gliadin in celiac disease appear to be compartmentalized, with different portions of the gastrointestinal tract functioning as separate immunological organs. Our results also demonstrate that serum and secretory IgA production are under independent control. 
Intraaortic balloon pumping as the postangioplasty strategy in acute myocardial infarction. To assess the usefulness of intraaortic balloon pumping (IABP) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 114 patients with anterior AMI undergoing emergency percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) for total occlusion of the left anterior descending artery were studied. After successful PTCA 66 patients were treated with conventional therapy (group I), and 48 patients were treated with IABP for 25 +/- 8 hours (group II). The reocclusion rate was significantly lower in group II (2.4% vs 17.7% p less than 0.05). An increase in ejection fraction in group II compared with group I was marginally significant (4.5 +/- 12.2% vs 9.2 +/- 13.0%, p = 0.08). Vascular complications occurred in two patients, but there were no deaths from IABP. These results suggest that after successful PTCA for acute myocardial infarction, IABP prevents reocclusion and may add strength to reperfusion in the improvement of left ventricular function. 
IIB osteosarcoma. Current management and survival statistics in the USSR. Three hundred and ninety-three patients with IIB osteosarcoma were treated at the author's institution between 1955 and 1986. In the first stage of the study, 88 patients were treated with surgery only. The five-year disease-free survival rate was 7%. In the second stage of the study, the efficacy of preventive chemotherapy after radical surgery was studied in 55 patients. The five-year disease-free survival rate was 34.4%. In the third stage of the study, the efficacy of combination therapy consisting of preoperative treatment, limb-saving surgery, and preventive chemotherapy was studied in 66 patients. The five-year disease-free survival rate was 35.5%. The authors examined results in 21 patients with Grade IV responses to evaluate the relationship between prognosis and morphogenic changes after preoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The five-year disease-free survival rate was 57.9%. In the fourth stage of the study (conducted in 1986), two regimens of preoperative chemotherapy were initiated. The first regimen consists of intraarterial platinum infusions to patients with lower extremity bone damage. The second regimen consists of high-dose methotrexate infusions. The preliminary conclusion is that primary tumor damage is significantly more marked after intraarterial cisplatin infusion. 
Single motor end-plates in myasthenia gravis and LEMS at different firing rates. The jitter and frequency of blocking was studied at single motor end-plates in 10 patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and in a patient with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), using single fiber EMG (SFEMG) with axonal microstimulation at rates varying from 0.5 Hz to 20 Hz. While some myasthenic motor end-plates showed lowest degrees of transmission disturbance at the lowest rates and most pronounced abnormality at the highest rates of stimulation, over one-half were most abnormal at intermediate rates and improved at higher rates. In 1 patient, all end-plates behaved in this way. On the other hand, all end-plates in the LEMS patient showed the expected improvement of the abnormal jitter and blocking on increasing the stimulation rate. It is argued that improvement of jitter and blocking at higher rates, unless dramatic, does not necessarily suggest a presynaptic abnormality. 
Treatment of esophageal varices: low versus high dose of 5% ethanolamine oleate. Twenty-four patients, undergoing sclerotherapy for esophageal varices, were injected with 10-20 ml of ethanolamine oleate 5% in the first treatment session (group A). Fourteen patients were injected with 40 ml of the same sclerosant in the first session (group B). Retrospective analysis was carried out to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the two doses. Variceal eradication was achieved in group B in significantly fewer sclerotherapy sessions. Rebleeding occurred in 16% of patients in group A, compared with no rebleeding in group B. There was no significant difference in the incidence of various complications. We conclude that the use of 40 ml of 5% ethanolamine oleate in the first session is more effective and as safe as the use of 20 ml of the same sclerosant. 
Proarrhythmia, cardiac arrest and death in young patients receiving encainide and flecainide. The Pediatric Electrophysiology Group The potential for proarrhythmic responses to the class IC sodium channel-blocking drugs encainide and flecainide has not been well described in young patients. Therefore, data were retrospectively collected from 36 institutions regarding 579 young patients who were administered encainide or flecainide for treatment of supraventricular tachycardias (encainide 86 patients, flecainide 369 patients) or ventricular arrhythmias (encainide 21 patients, flecainide 103 patients) to assess the frequency of proarrhythmia, cardiac arrest and death during therapy (adverse events). The two drugs were similar in regard to efficacy (flecainide 71.4%, encainide 59.8%) and rate of proarrhythmic responses (flecainide 7.4%; encainide 7.5%). However, patients receiving encainide more frequently experienced cardiac arrest (encainide 7.5% vs. flecainide 2.3%, p less than 0.05) or died during treatment (encainide 7.5% vs. flecainide 2.1%, p less than 0.05). Detailed data were provided for 44 patients experiencing one or more adverse events. Patient age, previous drug trials, concomitant therapy and days of inpatient monitoring were similar for patients receiving encainide or flecainide. However, echocardiographic left ventricular shortening before treatment was lower among patients receiving encainide (0.23 +/- 0.09) than among those receiving flecainide (0.34 +/- 0.06, p less than 0.05). Plasma drug concentrations were rarely elevated. Cardiac arrest (12 patients) and deaths (13 patients) occurred predominantly among patients with underlying heart disease, particularly among patients receiving flecainide for supraventricular tachycardia (8.3% vs. 0.3%, p less than 0.001). Fifteen patients with an ostensibly normal heart and normal ventricular function experienced proarrhythmia during treatment for supraventricular tachycardia, but only 3 of the 15 had a cardiac arrest or died. The relatively high incidence of adverse events should be considered when contemplating treatment with encainide or flecainide, particularly among patients with underlying heart disease. 
Effect of plasma glucose on infarct size in focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. Although hyperglycemia has been shown to consistently exacerbate ischemia brain injury following global or diffuse cerebral ischemia, the effect of hyperglycemia in unilateral focal cerebral ischemia remains controversial. Recent advances in thrombolytic therapy have enhanced the clinical significance of postischemic reperfusion. We studied the effect of plasma glucose on ischemic brain injury in a newly developed focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion model. Rats allowed free access to food until ischemic insult developed intra- and postischemic hyperglycemia and cortical infarction. Rats fasted for 24 hours had blunted hyperglycemic responses. Infarct volumes were correspondingly smaller. The protective effect of fasting was partially abolished by glucose loading during ischemia to induce intra-ischemic hyperglycemia. Glucose loading immediately or 3 hours after focal cerebral ischemia did not significantly alter the protective effect of fasting. Insulin treatment in fed rats before ischemia also reduced hyperglycemic responses and infarct volume. Timing of insulin treatment was also critical in the reduction of ischemic injury. These findings indicate that plasma glucose during the period of ischemia is an important determinant of brain injury in focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion and there is a therapeutic window for normalization of plasma glucose to be efficacious. 
The role of albumin in human physiology and pathophysiology, Part III: Albumin and disease states. The serum albumin level is one of several clinical parameters of the status of general health. There is a marked correlation between low albumin levels and the incidence of morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients. Therefore, it is not surprising to find that hypoalbuminemia is a common finding among hospitalized patients. This results from alterations in the catabolic or anabolic rates, losses of albumin, or redistribution between the various fluid compartments of the body. Somewhat less well defined than the role of albumin as a prognostic indicator is its role in compounding pathophysiology. Hypoalbuminemia is known to be associated with delayed wound healing. The hypoalbuminemic state interferes with the normal functioning of the gastrointestinal tract. Qualitative changes in the albumin molecule which occur in renal disease may damage the nephron. Low serum albumin levels may adversely affect the coagulation system. Further investigation into the role of albumin in pathophysiology is warranted. 
Blood pressure as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The Framingham Study--30 years of follow-up Data from 30 years of follow-up of the original Framingham Study cohort of 5,070 men and women aged 30-62 years who were first examined during the period 1948-1952 and who were free of cardiovascular disease reveal that blood pressure is a strong and consistent predictor of the development of coronary heart disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, and congestive heart failure. Other factors related to blood pressure like obesity, left ventricular hypertrophy as demonstrated on electrocardiograms, and heart enlargement as shown by x-ray radiography made several selective additional independent contributions to risk; heart enlargement by x-ray radiography was the best predictor of congestive heart failure. 
Crohn's colitis complicated by superimposed invasive amebic colitis. The clinical characteristics and endoscopic appearance of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) may be very similar to those of amebic colitis. Physicians, especially in areas in which amebiasis is endemic, are familiar with this difficulty. Moreover, in individual cases, it may even be impossible to distinguish between the two conditions, since stool specimens, bowel biopsies, and serological studies may be negative for Entamoeba histolytica, even in the presence of invasive amebic colitis. Invasive amebiasis may rarely be superimposed on IBD, which further complicates the issue. We report here a young patient with a 7-yr history of Crohn's colitis proven histologically who developed invasive amebic colitis during steroid and 6-mercaptopurine treatment for active disease. Stool specimens, mucosal biopsies, and serological studies were negative for E. histolytica, and the diagnosis was established on pathological examination of a surgically resected bowel. Anti-amebic therapy should be considered in endemic areas in cases of persistent IBD. 
Malignant melanoma occurring in those aged under 30 in the west of Scotland 1979-1986: a study of incidence, clinical features, pathological features and survival. The study population consisted of the 95 patients who presented with cutaneous malignant melanoma in the west of Scotland between 1979 and 1986 and who were aged under 30 at the time of diagnosis. Over this 7-year period, 1299 melanomas were diagnosed in all age groups in this geographical area, increasing in incidence by 82% from 135 in 1979 to 246 in 1986. The proportion of melanomas diagnosed before the patients' thirtieth birthday remained constant at 6%. None were diagnosed in the under-15 age-group, and none developed on giant congenital naevi. Forty-two of the 95 melanomas (44%) in the under-30 group developed on a small naevus present either from birth or early childhood. These melanomas were thicker than those apparently developing on normal skin, but once controlled for tumour thickness and sex the presence of a pre-existing naevus did not affect 5-year survival. The overall 5-year survival was 76% with poorer survival associated with thicker tumours and male sex. This study suggests that small early onset naevi may have a higher potential for post-pubertal malignant change than has been previously recognized. 
Haemodynamic changes during the apnoea test for diagnosis of brain death. Haemodynamic responses to the apnoea test for the diagnosis of brain death were investigated in nine patients with severe head injury or cerebrovascular disease. To prove apnoea, the ventilator was disconnected for ten minutes and oxygen was insufflated to avoid hypoxaemia. No respiratory movement was seen in any patient. Ten minutes after disconnecting the ventilator, PaCO2 was increased to 78 +/- 3 mmHg and pH was reduced to 7.17 +/- 0.02. Adequate oxygenation was maintained in all patients. Cardiac output increased from 4.8 +/- 0.7 to 5.7 +/- 0.8 L.min-1 (P less than 0.05), and mean pulmonary artery pressure increased from 11 +/- 1 to 17 +/- 2 mmHg (P less than 0.01). However, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, pulmonary artery wedge pressure and right atrial pressure did not change. Plasma catecholamines were measured in three patients. Plasma norepinephrine concentrations increased in all three patients but the changes in plasma epinephrine were minimal. These circulatory responses to acute hypercapnia were less than those reported in awake volunteers and in patients during general anaesthesia. However, since plasma norepinephrine concentration increased during the test, some sympathoadrenal response, probably of spinal origin, was present, and may have prevented the direct depressant circulatory effects of acute hypercapnia. In conclusion, the apnoea test did not produce haemodynamic disturbances when respiratory acidosis was limited to a pH 7.17 +/- 0.02 and PaCO2 60-80 mmHg. 
Traumatic facial injuries with steering wheel loading. This study was conducted to evaluate the biomechanics of facial fractures caused by steering wheel loading. Twelve intact fresh human cadaver heads were impacted onto standard or energy-absorbing steering wheels with a custom-designed and validated vertical-drop apparatus. Either zygoma was impacted once at a velocity of 2.0-6.9 m/s. The specimens were oriented to permit a direct comparison between pretest and posttest radiography, and two-dimensional and three-dimensional CT images. Bone mineral content was determined, and biomechanical forces, accelerations, and deformations were recorded. More severe fractures were associated with higher forces on the zygoma. With increasing velocities, fractures initiated at the zygomatic region propagated to other unilateral regions such as the mandible and orbit or to the contralateral side. Less facial trauma was observed with energy-absorbing steering wheels compared with standard wheels at similar impact velocities. Bone mineral content did not correlate well with specimen age or with fracture severity. Clinically significant fractures were identifiable on 3-D CT images. The flexibility of 3-D CT in evaluating the spatial extent of facial abnormalities in different orientations may have significant impact in planning surgical procedures. 
Erythropoietin concentrations in obstructive sleep apnoea. Eight patients with obstructive sleep apnoea and a normal haemoglobin concentration underwent nocturnal studies during which oxyhaemoglobin saturation was recorded continuously with an ear oximeter and serum erythropoietin concentration was measured hourly by means of a radioimmunoassay. Serum erythropoietin concentrations remained within the normal range throughout the study despite falls in oxyhaemaglobin saturation in individuals to 33-78%. There was no relation between the degree of nocturnal hypoxaemia and serum erythropoietin concentrations. The brief cyclical episodes of hypoxaemia typical of obstructive sleep apnoea may not be a sufficient stimulus for erythropoietin secretion. 
A frameless, armless navigational system for computer-assisted neurosurgery. Technical note. A computer-assisted neurosurgical navigational system has been developed which displays intraoperative manipulation on the preoperative computerized tomography (CT) scans or magnetic resonance (MR) images. The system consists of a three-dimensional digitizer, a personal computer, and an image-processing unit. Utilizing recently developed magnetic field modulation technology, the three-dimensional digitizer determines the spatial position and orientation angles of the resin probe, triangle-shaped pointer, or suction tube with a small attached magnetic field sensor. Four fiducial markers on the scalp were used to translate the spatial data of the probe onto the preoperative CT scans or MR images of the patient. With this frameless, armless navigational system, CT or MR-imaging stereotaxy can be applied to conventional open neurosurgery without limiting the operative field or interfering with the surgical procedures. 
Diclofenac delays healing of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions. Double-blind, placebo-controlled endoscopic study in healthy volunteers. The effects of the water-soluble and delayed-release formulations of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, diclofenac, on the healing of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions were compared in a double-blind, double cross-over, placebo-controlled endoscopic study conducted in 14 healthy volunteers. Severe endoscopic lesions (petechiae, erosions, ulcers, and esophageal candidiasis) were found only in the group taking the soluble formulation of diclofenac (P less than 0.05 vs placebo). The endoscopic healing of biopsies at one week was delayed by both preparations in comparison to placebo (P less than 0.05 vs placebo). Neither formulation produced significantly more histological inflammation or minor endoscopic lesions (erythema, red striae) than placebo. Both formulations were equally well tolerated and produced no more symptoms than placebo. This study suggests that soluble diclofenac acts topically to delay gastroduodenal healing and produce gastroduodenal injury; it thus provides a model for future studies of the production, perpetuation, and healing of peptic lesions. 
Progressive congestive heart failure. Ways to approach office management. Treatment of congestive heart failure depends on the cause, precipitating factors, and symptoms of the disease in each patient. Dr Kahn outlines the use of the three main types of pharmacologic agents given for heart failure--diuretics, vasodilators, and digoxin. He describes a stepwise regimen, whereby agents are added as needed to improve symptoms and prolong life. 
Combined evaluation of total and functional liver plasma flows and intrahepatic shunting A diagnostic protocol was studied, designed to evaluate the main parameters of liver circulation in man. A water solution of D-sorbitol (S) and indocyanine green (ICG) was infused intravenously in six controls and nine cirrhotics. Steady-state renal and hepatic S clearances as well as hepatic ICG clearance were calculated. In controls the values (mean +/- SD) of the independent measurements of S and ICG hepatic clearance were 978 +/- 107 and 519 +/- 142 ml/min, respectively, while in cirrhotic patients they were 554 +/- 238 and 231 +/- 90 ml/min. Owing to the kinetic properties of S, its hepatic clearance may be regarded as a measure of functional liver plasma flow (FLPF). The total liver plasma flow (TLPF) values (mean +/- SD), calculated according to Fick's principle, were 1091 +/- 157 ml/min (S method) and 1033 +/- 153 ml/min (ICG method) in controls, and 1251 +/- 554 and 1284 +/- 677 ml/min in cirrhotics. In controls, FLPF was found to be very close to TLPF. In cirrhotic patients the difference between TLPF and FLPF (ranging from 169 to 2093 ml/min when measured by S method) was considered as an approximate estimate of intrahepatic shunting. The procedure is safe and simple and may add a new dimension to the investigation of hepatic circulation. 
Treatment of superior vena cava thrombosis with recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator. Thrombotic occlusion of the superior vena cava is an uncommon but serious complication of chronic indwelling venous catheters. Several reports have shown thrombolytic therapy with intravenous streptokinase or urokinase to be effective in the treatment of this condition. We report a case of superior vena cava thrombosis in a 53-year-old woman receiving chemotherapy for breast carcinoma through a subcutaneously implanted venous access catheter who was successfully treated with peripheral infusion of recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator (rtPA). 
The aphasic isolate. A clinical-CT scan study of a particularly severe subgroup of global aphasics. This paper outlines the clinical and CT scan features of a subtype of global aphasia, characterized by an extreme loss of communicative abilities, verbal as well as nonverbal. Three to four weeks after a left hemisphere stroke, 17 patients were completely unable to communicate with people addressing them. Though there were differences in their willingness to interact with the environment, they were characterized by complete loss of speech output and by inaccessibility to any kind of message, whether given verbally or through gestures. Patients who survived were reassessed 6 and 12 mos later and half of them were still found in a state of complete communicative isolation. The remainder had somewhat improved, but remained globally aphasic. The attempt to find a CT scan basis for this picture was disappointing. Only 35% of patients had a lesional pattern in agreement with the traditional view that ascribes global aphasia to the involvement of Broca's and Wernicke's areas. The location of lesion in the other cases spanned from anterior cortical damage, to posterior cortical damage, to deep nuclei damage and none of the lesions that have been proposed to account for subcortical global aphasia was consistently observed. 
Clinical factors affecting the immediate outcome of PTCA in patients with unstable angina and poor candidates for surgery. Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) has been successfully applied in unstable angina to carefully selected patients. In this study, PTCA was performed in 277 consecutive patients suffering from unstable angina and for whom bypass surgery was not a valid alternative because either of inoperable conditions or of emergency, or because surgery was not the best option. All patients were admitted first to the intensive care unit where an attempt was made to control unstable angina under conventional medical therapy using at least iv nitroderivative, heparin, and calcium blockers. After a standardized preparation PTCA was performed either as an emergency procedure in medically refractory unstable angina (107 cases) or as an elective procedure in controlled situations after a 7 to 10 days symptom-free period. Three hundred fifty-three coronary vessels were attempted. Results of this group are compared with those of a control group made of 670 consecutive stable patients recruited during the same period, and clinical characteristics are envisaged as potential predictive factors. Unstable angina is undoubtedly associated with a higher overall complication rate, but the immediate outcome is strongly affected by the clinical context. As an example, respective success and mortality rates are: 93% and 0% when a full revascularization is attempted; 91% and 0% in elective procedures in patients under 60; 87% and 1.2% in elective PTCA for multiple vessel disease; 80% and 6.5% in emergency PTCA; 80% and 11% in the overall triple vessel disease; 84% and 16% in patients with deeply altered ejection fraction; and 58% and 26% in triple vessel disease with 2 previously occluded coronary arteries. 
Hemodynamic effects of octreotide in patients with autonomic neuropathy. BACKGROUND. The somatostatin analogue, ectrootide, is being used to treat postprandial hypotension in patients with autonomic neuropathy. Although the therapeutic effect of the drug is presumably secondary to a splanchnic vasoconstrictor action, its effect on splanchnic hemodynamics has never been characterized in patients with autonomic neuropathy. Moreover, it is unknown whether octreotide acts on other vascular beds in this group of patients or whether it affects cardiac output. We, therefore, measured splanchnic, forearm, and systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output before and after administering octreotide (0.4 microgram/kg s.c.) to patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy and diabetic autonomic neuropathy. METHODS AND RESULTS. Splanchnic blood flow was determined from the clearance of indocyanine green in seven patients. We observed that octreotide decreased splanchnic blood flow (from 850 +/- 77 to 664 +/- 48 ml/min, p less than 0.005), increased mean blood pressure (from 97 +/- 6 to 115 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.005), and increased splanchnic vascular resistance (from 0.118 +/- 0.012 to 0.18 +/- 0.018 mm Hg/ml/min, p less than 0.005). Forearm blood flow was measured by plethysmography in 13 patients. Octreotide increased forearm vascular resistance in patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy (n = 8) from 19.1 +/- 1.0 to 27.2 +/- 3.8 mm Hg/ml/min/100 ml forearm volume (p less than 0.01) and from 25.2 +/- 3.9 to 41.0 +/- 6.8 mm Hg/ml/min/100 ml (p less than 0.01) in patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy (n = 5). Cardiac output was measured by two-dimensional echocardiography. Octreotide administration increased cardiac output in five of six patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy (from 4.4 +/- 0.4 to 5.0 +/- 0.5 l/min, p less than 0.02) and five of five patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy (from 3.8 +/- 0.4 to 5.1 +/- 0.4 l/min, p less than 0.02). Systemic vascular resistance increased in patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy from 21.2 +/- 2 to 24.9 +/- 2.6 (p less than 0.05) but did not change in patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy. CONCLUSION. The pressor effect of octreotide in patients with autonomic neuropathy is associated with increased splanchnic and forearm vascular resistance and with increased cardiac output. 
Medical aspects of delayed convalescence. Disease and illness are not synonymous. In most instances, disease is demonstrable by anatomic, physiologic, biochemical, microbiologic, or immunologic abnormalities. Disease is a pathologic process. Not all persons with a disease are sick or ill. Symptoms of illness associated with a disease may be manifest or persist after the disease has disappeared. The absence of demonstrable disease, however, does not necessarily mean that symptoms of illness are unreal. Recovery from disease and recovery from illness are not always equated. Many factors, including personal characteristics and social circumstances, can be responsible for recovery from disease and illness. Chronic fatigue syndrome or symptoms of illness can persist in some patients but not in others after many different diseases. 
How to identify psychogenic disorders of stance and gait. A video study in 37 patients. Thirty-seven patients with psychogenic disorders of stance and gait were clinically evaluated, recorded on video, and analysed with regard to clinical phenomenology. Characteristic, suggestive and unspecific features were identified. Six characteristic features proved most valuable for diagnosis of psychogenesis, as they occurred alone or in combination in 97% of patients: (1) momentary fluctuations of stance and gait, often in response to suggestion; (2) excessive slowness or hesitation of locomotion incompatible with neurological disease; (3) "psychogenic" Romberg test with a build-up of sway amplitudes after a silent latency or with improvement by distraction; (4) uneconomic postures with wastage of muscular energy; (5) the "walking on ice" gait pattern, which is characterized by small cautious steps with fixed ankle joints; (6) sudden buckling of the knees, usually without falls. Seventy-three percent of patients had additional suggestive features. Classification into characteristic subtypes was not found useful because predominant features varied from patient to patient and occurred in various combinations. Factitious impairment of stance and gait was studied in 13 healthy drama students. Simulated gait dysfunction appeared less conspicuous and more difficult to diagnose than the clinical psychogenic disorders. 
An analysis of thirty cases of orbital lymphangioma. Pathophysiologic considerations and management recommendations. Thirty cases of orbital lymphangioma were reviewed. Clinical, imaging, and microscopic findings were integrated to develop a pathophysiologic construct and management guidelines. The basic lesion might be considered an abortive vascular system which arborizes among normal structures. Intrinsic hemorrhage expands portions of the small-caliber network into large blood cysts, prompting clinical recognition. While major hemorrhage led to early surgery in 12 cases, long pretreatment intervals could be analyzed in 17 others. Twelve patients had second hemorrhages of varied magnitude, from 2 weeks to 15 years after initial recognition; five patients did not in an average of 6.8 years. Some blood cysts contracted spontaneously. Among 23 operated cases, 12 patients had major new bleeds from 4 days to 12 years after initial surgery; 11 patients did not in an average of 4.2 years. Poor final visual acuity was associated with multiple surgeries. The authors advocate conservatism in surgical case selection and in operative dissection. 
Percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted angioplasty: initial multicenter experience in 141 patients. Initial multicenter clinical experience with percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted angioplasty is described for 158 lesions in 141 patients. Using a xenon chloride (308 nm) excimer laser generator and 1.5 to 1.75 mm catheters, excimer laser angioplasty was attempted at 135 ns pulse width, 25 to 40 Hz repetition rate, 2 to 5 s laser delivery time and 30 to 60 mJ/mm2 energy fluence. Laser success (greater than 20% improvement in luminal diameter) was achieved in 138 (87%) of 158 lesions, with a reduction to less than 50% stenosis noted in 77 lesions (49%). Overall, laser-assisted balloon angioplasty success (less than 50% residual stenosis without major complication) was observed in 129 (91%) of 141 patients. Procedural complications (abrupt closure 1.3%, side branch occlusion 1.9%, intimal dissection 6.3%, embolization 1.3%, filling defect 1.3%, perforation 1.9% and spasm 1.3% and major complications (non-Q wave myocardial infarction 4.8%, emergency coronary bypass surgery 3.5% and death 0%) were infrequent and predominantly related to subsequent balloon angioplasty. In the early follow-up period (range 1 to 10 months, mean 7), 111 (79%) of the 141 patients remain asymptomatic, whereas symptoms have recurred in 27 (19%) and 3 patients (2.1%) have died. Thus, percutaneous coronary excimer laser angioplasty appears to be a feasible and safe procedure. Assessment of the impact of this technology on the acute complications of and restenosis rates after angioplasty awaits further follow-up analysis. 
Long-term nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug use and Helicobacter pylori infection. This study investigates whether patients who take nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs are more likely to have Helicobacter pylori gastritis than age-matched individuals who do not take nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, and whether patients who take nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs who are also infected with H. pylori are more likely to have dyspepsia, mucosal damage, or ulcers than those who are not infected. Two studies were performed, one serological and the other endoscopic, both in arthritis patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs chronically. The presence of H. pylori was identified with a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test. One hundred eighty-three patients participated in the serological study and 75 patients in the endoscopic study. The frequency of H. pylori infection increased with age, independent of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug use; the age-adjusted frequency of H. pylori infection in arthritis patients paralleled that of 351 asymptomatic individuals without arthritis. The frequency of H. pylori infection increased from 30.7% in age group 21-30 years to 73.4% in age group 61-75 years. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced mucosal injury, either hemorrhages or erosions, was more frequent in those without H. pylori infection than with infection (61% vs. 32% for hemorrhages and 57% vs. 34% for erosions for those without and with H. pylori infection; only the difference in the frequency of hemorrhages was significant, P less than 0.05). No difference was observed in the presence of dyspeptic symptoms between those with and without H. pylori infection. These data suggest that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced damage to the gastroduodenal mucosa does not increase the susceptibility to H. pylori infection. 
Effects of hypercapnia and hypocapnia on respiratory resistance in normal and asthmatic subjects. The effects of hypercapnia and hypocapnia on respiratory resistance were studied in 15 healthy subjects and 30 asthmatic subjects. Respiratory resistance (impedance) was measured with the pseudo-random noise forced oscillation technique while the subjects rebreathed from a wet spirometer in a closed respiratory circuit in which end tidal carbon dioxide tension (PCO2) could be controlled. Hypercapnia was induced by partially short circuiting the carbon dioxide absorber, and hypocapnia by voluntary hyperventilation. The circulating air was saturated with water vapour and kept at body temperature and ambient pressure. A rise of end tidal PCO2 of 1 kPa caused a significant fall in respiratory resistance in both normal and asthmatic subjects (15% and 9% respectively). A fall of PCO2 of 1 kPa did not cause any significant change in impedance in the control group. In the asthmatic patients resistance increased by 13%, reactance fell by 45%, and the frequency dependence of resistance rose 240%. These findings confirm that hypocapnia may contribute to airway obstruction in asthmatic patients, even when water and heat loss are prevented. 
Gliofibroma. Case report. The case history of an infant with a large gliofibroma is presented. Gliofibromas are rare mixed glialmesenchymal tumors that have been poorly characterized. The computerized tomography appearance and a detailed light and electron microscopic description are presented, along with immunoperoxidase studies of this tumor. This case is compared with gliofibromas described elsewhere in the literature. 
Midgut volvulus in infants: diagnosis with US. Work in progress. The authors present findings from ultrasound (US) studies that can alert sonologists to the possibility of midgut malrotation complicated by volvulus in neonates and infants. A fluid-filled, distended duodenum seen at US examination in infants is a nonspecific sign of duodenal obstruction, as well as one of the signs of midgut malrotation. In addition, dilated, thick-walled bowel loops, mainly to the right of the spine, and peritoneal fluid were found at abdominal US examinations of three infants with midgut malrotation complicated by volvulus. In one infant with uncomplicated midgut malrotation, only signs of duodenal obstruction were present. The findings at US of duodenal obstruction associated with thickened bowel loops to the right of the spine and peritoneal fluid should lead the sonologist to suspect midgut malrotation complicated by volvulus, a potentially fatal condition, and an upper gastrointestinal series should then be performed to confirm the diagnosis. 
Optimal dose of neuroleptic in acute schizophrenia. A controlled study of the neuroleptic threshold and higher haloperidol dose. After individual determination of neuroleptic threshold (NT) doses of haloperidol, 106 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (Research Diagnostic Criteria) were treated openly at such doses (mean, 3.7 +/- 2.3 mg/d) for 2 weeks. Ten responding patients were discharged and unavailable for follow-up or refused subsequent randomization, and one non-responding patient refused randomization. The remaining 95 responding or nonresponding patients were then randomly assigned, double-blind, to a dosage of haloperidol two to 10 times higher (mean, 11.6 +/- 4.7 mg/d) or to a continuing NT dosage (mean, 3.4 +/- 2.3 mg/d) for another 2 weeks. Of the 58 patients exposed only to NT dosages of haloperidol, 72% clinically recovered within the 5-week trial. Higher dosages given to 47 patients did not lead to greater improvement in measures of psychosis, but did produce slightly greater declines in measures of hostility. Higher dosages did regularly lead to significant increases in distressing extrapyramidal side effects. 
Physiology and pathophysiology of colonic motor activity (2). The basic motor function of the colon is to mix and knead its contents, propel them slowly in the caudad direction, hold them in the distal colon until defecation, and provide a strong propulsive force during defecation. Infrequently, it also produces mass movements in the proximal colon. These motor functions are achieved in most species by three different types of contractions: the individual phasic contractions that include the short- and long-duration contractions, organized groups of contractions that include the migrating and nonmigrating motor complexes, and special propulsive contractions (giant migrating contractions). The spatial and temporal patterns of all of these contractions are controlled by myogenic, neural, and chemical control mechanisms. The individual phasic contractions are highly disorganized in time and space in the colon. For this reason, they are effective in mixing and kneading and slow distal propulsion. The underlying cause of the disorganization of short duration contractions is the irregularity in the frequency and waveshape of colonic electrical control activity and its phase unlocking throughout the colon. The individual contractions in many species occur in cyclic bursts called contractile states. At least in some species, these contractile states exhibit mostly caudad and sometimes orad migration. However, there are also nonmigrating or randomly migrating contractile states in the colon. These two patterns of contractile states are called colonic migrating motor complexes and colonic nonmigrating motor complexes, respectively. The giant migrating contractions provide the strong propulsive force for defecation and mass movements. The neural control of colonic contractions is organized at three levels--enteric, autonomic, and central. The enteric nervous system contains cholinergic and peptidergic neurons and plays a major role in the control of colonic contractions. The autonomic nerves, the vagi, pelvic, lumbar colonic, hypogastric, and splanchnic nerves, seem to continuously monitor the state of the colon and provide a modulatory input when necessary. These nerves play a major role in the reflexive control of colonic motor function. The voluntary input from the central nervous system coordinates the motor activity of the colon, rectum, anal canal and sphincters for orderly evacuation of feces during defecation. The role of acetylcholine, nonadrenaline, and the yet to be completely identified nonadrenergic, noncholinergic neurotransmitter, possibly VIP, in the control of contractions is fairly well established. Besides these, there are several other peptides and chemicals that are localized in the colonic wall; their physiological roles remain unknown. Colonic motor activity has been studied in several disease states. The findings have not always been consistent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Assessment of the role of the glucocorticoid system in aging processes and in the action of food restriction. The Glucocorticoid Cascade Hypothesis of Aging and the hypothesis that food restriction retards the aging processes by preventing the development with age of hyperadrenocorticism were investigated. A longitudinal life span study of the daily concentration pattern of plasma corticosterone was conducted in male Fischer 344 rats fed ad libitum or restricted to 60% of the mean food intake of ad libitum fed rats. In another group of ad libitum fed and food-restricted rats, the influence of age on the response of plasma corticosterone levels to restraint stress was measured as was the time course of the return of plasma corticosterone to basal levels following the stress. The findings do not support the hypothesis that food restriction retards the aging processes by preventing the development of hyperadrenocorticism with advancing age. They also indicate that the Glucocorticoid Cascade Hypothesis does not describe a major aspect of the aging processes. Rather, the results suggest the possibility that a lifetime of daily periods of mild hyperadrenocorticism may, if anything, retard the aging processes. 
Effects of calcium-free solution, calcium antagonists, and the calcium agonist BAY K 8644 on mechanical responses of skeletal muscle from patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if alteration in the function of the dihydropyridine receptor may in turn modify halothane-induced contractures in muscle bundles from patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia (MH). The effects of Ca(2+)-free Krebs Ringer (KR) solution, 5 microM verapamil, 5 microM nifedipine, and 10 microM of the Ca2+ agonist BAY K 8644 on halothane-induced contracture were therefore investigated. The halothane-induced contracture was prevented in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and significantly reduced in the presence of verapamil or nifedipine. BAY K 8644 significantly enhanced the 0.5-, 1.0-, and 1.5-vol % halothane-induced contracture in MH-susceptible muscle bundles. When BAY K 8644 was dissolved in Ca(2+)-free KR solution, no contracture was observed in MH-susceptible muscle bundles. These results on cut MH-susceptible human muscle bundles support the hypothesis that halothane-induced contracture in MH can be modified by the binding of Ca2+ agonists or antagonists to the dihydropyridine receptor. The role of Ca2+ entry phenomena remains unclear, but the results suggest that extracellular Ca2+ is required to reprime or to bind to some sites of the dihydropyridine receptors. 
Regulation of MHC class II antigen expression. Opposing effects of tumor necrosis factor-alpha on IFN-gamma-induced HLA-DR and Ia expression depends on the maturation and differentiation stage of the cell. MHC class II induction by cytokines has been suggested to play a major role in the initiation and propagation of immune and autoimmune processes. TNF-alpha has been found both to enhance and also to inhibit IFN-gamma-induced MHC class II expression. In the present studies, the effect of TNF-alpha on IFN-gamma induced MHC class II expression was tested in various cell lines. On the basis of the data, we propose that, depending on the stage of differentiation and maturation of the cells, TNF-alpha might synergize or antagonize the affects of IFN-gamma on the regulation of MHC class II expression. Thus, in immature cells such as HL-60 or THP-1, TNF-alpha enhances IFN-gamma-induced class II expression. However, when differentiation was induced in these cells by TPA or IFN-gamma, the additive effect of TNF-alpha on the IFN-gamma induced DR expression was eliminated. Furthermore, TNF-alpha down-regulates the IFN-gamma-induced class II expression in differentiated cells such as human skin fibroblasts or activated macrophages. In bone marrow cells induced to differentiate in vitro, TNF-alpha decreased the IFN-gamma-induced MHC class II expression in a maturation-dependent fashion. These results provide a rational explanation for the conflicting reports regarding the effect of TNF-alpha on IFN-gamma-induced class II expression. But more importantly they may be relevant to the biologic function of TNF-alpha. Thus, we show that TNF-alpha-treated mice have reduced level of Ia expression on peritoneal macrophages and in vivo treatment with TNF-alpha antagonizes the ability of IFN-gamma to induce class II expression on these macrophages. 
A comparison of enalapril with hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure BACKGROUND. To define better the efficacy of vasodilator therapy in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure, we compared the effects of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate with those of enalapril in 804 men receiving digoxin and diuretic therapy for heart failure. The patients were randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to receive 20 mg of enalapril daily or 300 mg of hydralazine plus 160 mg of isosorbide dinitrate daily. The latter regimen was identical to that used with a similar patient population in the effective-treatment arm of our previous Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial. RESULTS. Mortality after two years was significantly lower in the enalapril arm (18 percent) than in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate arm (25 percent) (P = 0.016; reduction in mortality, 28.0 percent), and overall mortality tended to be lower (P = 0.08). The lower mortality in the enalapril arm was attributable to a reduction in the incidence of sudden death, and this beneficial effect was more prominent in patients with less severe symptoms (New York Heart Association class I or II). In contrast, body oxygen consumption at peak exercise was increased only by hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate treatment (P less than 0.05), and left ventricular ejection fraction, which increased with both regimens during the 2 years after randomization, increased more (P less than 0.05) during the first 13 weeks in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate group. CONCLUSIONS. The similar two-year mortality in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate arms in our previous Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial (26 percent) and in the present trial (25 percent), as compared with that in the placebo arm in the previous trial, (34 percent) and the further survival benefit with enalapril in the present trial (18 percent) strengthen the conclusion that vasodilator therapy should be included in the standard treatment for heart failure. The different effects of the two regimens (enalapril and hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate) on mortality and physiologic end points suggest that the profile of effects might be enhanced if the regimens were used in combination. 
Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy versus conservative treatment for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and bleeding esophageal varices. We performed endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) in the treatment of 37 patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The results were compared with those in another 33 HCC patients treated only conservatively, without EIS, during the same period. A majority of both groups died within 3 weeks after treatment. Comparing the two groups, there was no significant difference in fatal bleeding (66% vs 75%), but significantly fewer of the EIS patients died of the index hemorrhage (43% vs. 83%; p less than 0.01). Also, in the absence of portal vein thrombosis, EIS significantly reduced the risk of fatal bleeding (31% vs. 73%; p less than 0.25). The mean days of survival were 32 +/- 15 (range, 2 to 320) in the EIS group and 10 +/- 14 (range, 2 to 270) in the compared group (p less than 0.001). We conclude that EIS provides temporary control of acute esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with unresectable HCC. The major factors contributing to EIS failure are the lethal propensity of the underlying disease and portal vein thrombosis. 
A relationship between proteinuria and acute tubulointerstitial disease in rats with experimental nephrotic syndrome. The relationship between tubulointerstitial nephritis and proteinuria was characterized in experimental nephrosis in rats. In one group, proteinuria induced by aminonucleoside of puromycin (PAN) was reduced by using an 8% protein diet and adding the angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril to the drinking water. Two control groups were injected with saline and PAN, respectively, and fed a 27% protein diet. The first group had significantly reduced albuminuria and a definite attenuation of tubular cell injury. There was a strong positive correlation between the number of interstitial macrophages and albuminuria. The beneficial effect was reproduced by dietary-protein restriction alone, whereas ACE inhibition alone had an insignificant effect on the degree of proteinuria. Depletion of circulating T lymphocytes in one group of nephrotic rats eliminated interstitial lymphocytes but did not affect interstitial macrophage influx. Inhibition of the in situ proliferation of resident interstitial macrophages by unilateral kidney irradiation failed to change the intensity of the macrophage infiltration. Treatment of rats with sodium maleate produced proximal tubular cell toxicity but interstitial inflammation did not develop, suggesting that the latter is not a nonspecific response to tubular injury. These studies demonstrate a strong relationship between tubulointerstitial nephritis and the severity of proteinuria in experimental nephrosis. 
The dizzy patient: etiologic treatment. The basis for the vestibular complaint in dizzy patients should be viewed as having an etiology rather than a description of its clinical presentation. Effective treatment of vestibular disorders is based on the stabilization of the vestibular abnormality, to allow for central vestibular compensation. While not all of the etiologies for dizziness have been described, there are effective etiologic treatments available. These fit into categories of neurotransmitters, blood sugar and blood fat control, hormones, minerals, and treatments for autoimmune dizziness. 
Contractile response of aorta to alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation in Ca(2+)-free medium is reduced in spontaneous hypertension. Vascular responses of aortic rings to alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation by phenylephrine (Phe) from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were studied in Ca(2+)-containing medium and Ca(2+)-free medium plus 50 mumol/L EGTA. Although there was no difference in the sustained force development between SHR and WKY vessels in response to 100 mmol/L KCl or 10 mumol/L Phe in Ca(2+)-containing medium, the transient contractile response to 10 mumol/L Phe in Ca(2+)-free medium was substantially smaller in SHR compared to that in WKY. Subsequent addition of 2.5 mmol/L Ca2+ restored the sustained contractile response to a similar level in both SHR and WKY vessels. The transient contractile response to Phe in Ca(2+)-free medium containing EGTA, presumably due to the release of intracellular Ca2+, decreased progressively with preincubation time in Ca(2+)-free medium, indicating intracellular Ca2+ depletion. Such a temporal change of aortic response was more pronounced in SHR than in WKY. The subsequent response to Ca2+ repletion in the presence of Phe, on the other hand, increased progressively with Ca(2+)-depletion period and was higher in SHR than in WKY. The rate of relaxation after washout of Phe was slower in SHR aorta compared to WKY aorta. These results, together with our earlier findings, collectively suggest that the previous known deficiency in Ca2+ pumping mechanisms of vascular muscle microsomes leading to a reduced functional size of intracellular Ca2+ pool may account for the smaller contractile response of SHR aorta to alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation in Ca(2+)-free medium and the slower rate of relaxation. 
The occurrence of epilepsy and febrile seizures in Virginian and Norwegian twins. Twin studies provide an efficient method for examining the importance of genetic and environmental factors in the etiology of disorders such as epilepsy. Population-based twin registries are especially valuable for studies of this type since effects of reporting and self-selection biases on the resulting data are minimized. Among 14,352 twin pairs contained in the Virginia and Norwegian twin panels for whom questionnaire information was available, there was a history of epilepsy in one or both members of 286 pairs; febrile seizures were reported in 257 pairs. Analyses of questionnaire data revealed no significant differences in concordance rates between Virginian and Norwegian twins for either epilepsy or febrile seizures. Probandwise concordance rates for epilepsy were 0.19 in monozygotic twins and 0.07 in dizygotic twins. Analogous rates for febrile seizures were 0.33 (monozygotic) and 0.11 (dizygotic). These results provide further evidence that genetic factors do have a role in the expression of epilepsy and febrile seizures. 
Retinal migraine, chorea, and retinal artery thrombosis in a patient with primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. We report the case of a patient with the unusual combination of migraine, chorea, and retinal arterial thrombosis along with laboratory evidence of autoimmunity. In the absence of systemic lupus erythematosus, the clinical manifestations suggest the presence of the primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. 
Inability of coronary blood flow reserve measurements to assess the efficacy of coronary angioplasty in the first 24 hours in unselected patients. To determine functional and anatomic changes in the first 24 hours after coronary angioplasty, we studied at random 15 patients (9 men, mean age 60 years) who underwent coronary angioplasty of 16 coronary arteries. Quantitative coronary angiography and coronary flow reserve measurements from digitized coronary angiograms were performed before, immediately after, and 24 hours after coronary angioplasty. Calculated were the minimal luminal diameter, obstruction area, and percentage diameter stenosis from two preferably orthogonal projections. Prior myocardial infarction in the myocardial region of interest was present in four patients. Seven patients had multivessel disease. Collateral vessels supplying the compromised flow region were observed in three patients. Six patients had refractory unstable angina pectoris. After coronary angioplasty, angiographically visible dissection was noted in six patients, whereas side branch occlusion was observed in one. Minimal luminal diameter before, immediately after, and 24 hours after was 0.93 +/- 0.18 mm, 1.53 +/- 28 mm, and 1.53 +/- 0.21 mm, respectively; obstruction area was 0.70 +/- 0.26 mm2, 1.92 +/- 0.69 mm2, and 1.87 +/- 0.51 mm2, respectively; diameter stenosis was 60.4 +/- 8.0%, 36.8 +/- 11.4%, and 37.6 +/- 5.3%, respectively. The coronary flow reserve (lower limit of normal with this technique 3.4) was essentially the same before and immediately after coronary angioplasty (1.26 +/- 0.59 vs 1.30 +/- 0.42, p = NS) with a slight improvement to 1.78 +/- 0.90 (p less than 0.05) 1 day later. Coronary artery dimensions correlated poorly with coronary blood flow reserve before and after angioplasty. 
Posterior cortical dementia with alexia: neurobehavioural, MRI, and PET findings. A progressive disorder of relatively focal but asymmetric biposterior dysfunction is described in a 54 year old right handed male. Initial clinical features included letter-by-letter alexia, visual anomia, acalculia, mild agraphia, constructional apraxia, and visuospatial compromise. Serial testing demonstrated relentless deterioration with additional development of transcortical sensory aphasia, Gerstmann's tetrad, and severe visuoperceptual impairment. Amnesia was not an early clinical feature. Judgment, personality, insight, and awareness remained preserved throughout most of the clinical course. Extinction in the right visual field to bilateral stimulation was the sole neurological abnormality. Early CT was normal and late MRI showed asymmetrical bioccipitoparietal atrophy with greater involvement of the left hemisphere. Results from positron emission tomography (PET) showed bilaterally asymmetric (left greater than right) occipitotemporoparietal hypometabolism. The metabolic decrement was strikingly asymmetric with a 50% reduction in glucose consumption confined to the left occipital cortex. The picture of occipitotemporoparietal compromise verified by MRI, PET, and neurobehavioural testing would be unusual for such degenerative dementias as Alzheimer's (AD) and Pick's disease, although atypical AD with predominant occipital lobe involvement cannot be excluded. This case supports the concepts of posterior cortical dementia (PCD) as a clinically distinct entity and for the first time documents its corresponding metabolic deficit using PET. 
Evaluation of salvage surgery in heavily irradiated cancer of the buccal mucosa. This report describes the authors' experience with salvage surgery in 78 patients with carcinoma of the buccal mucosa who failed after high-dose radical radiation therapy at Regional Cancer Centre, Trivandrum, India. Forty-four patients (56%) required a hemimandibulectomy for adequate tumor clearance. Fifty-four patients (69%) required a primary reconstructive procedure for wound closure. Follow-up periods ranged from 28 months to 63 months (median follow-up, 41 months). Thirteen patients (17%) developed nonfatal postoperative complications. Thirty-one patients recurred after surgery, five of whom were again salvaged by further surgery. Overall, the recurrence rate was 36%. Most of the recurrences (26/31) were at the primary site. The overall 5-year actuarial disease-free survival after salvage surgery was 59.7%. T stage of the recurrent tumor and its skin infiltration emerged as factors which significantly influenced disease-free survival (P less than 0.05). 
Reactive astrogliosis is widespread in the subcortical white matter of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis brain. Widespread astrogliosis exists in the subcortical white matter in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). As revealed by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunostaining, the gliosis has the morphological properties of an active process. It is present in the midfrontal, inferior parietal, temporal, cingulate, and occipital cortices, as well as in the motor cortex. Compared to matched regions from other neurological diseases, the gliosis in ALS does not appear to be the nonspecific result of a progressive, degenerative disease. In cell number and apparent cell size, the gliosis is comparable to that present in neurological diseases known to have white matter gliosis. Cytologically, the gliosis most closely resembles that present in cases of cerebral infarction. The basis for this similarity is unknown. 
Reversibility of cardiac abnormalities in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals: a serial echocardiographic study. Seventy adults who tested positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were prospectively studied with serial echocardiography to better define the prevalence and progression of cardiac disease in such patients. Fifty outpatients (Group A), including 44 with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and 6 with AIDS-related complex, and 20 additional patients (Group B) with asymptomatic HIV infection had baseline echocardiographic studies at a time when no patient had symptomatic heart disease. Follow-up studies were performed at 9 +/- 3 months in 52 patients (74%) and again at 15 +/- 3 months after baseline studies in 29 patients (41%). During the study, 22 patients (44%) in Group A and 1 patient (5%) in Group B died. Cardiac abnormalities were noted in 26 patients (52%) in Group A and 8 patients (40%) in Group B (p = NS) on initial or follow-up study. An abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction (less than 45%) or fractional shortening (less than 28%) was seen in seven patients in Group A; of these, three had normal left ventricular function on a later echocardiogram. One patient in Group B had persistent left ventricular dysfunction. All patients in Group A with left ventricular dysfunction on two serial studies died within 1 year after the initial echocardiogram. Ejection fraction did not change between baseline and two follow-up studies in either group (A: 52 +/- 9 vs. 56 +/- 9 vs. 55 +/- 5%, p = NS; B: 58 +/- 6 vs. 58 +/- 5 vs. 59 +/- 6%, p = NS). Right-sided cardiac enlargement resolved in 18 patients (44%), including 5 of 10 in Group A and 3 of 8 in Group B. 
Intestinal permeability after single dose gluten challenge in coeliac disease. The changes of intestinal permeability before and after a gluten load were studied. The study group comprised 27 patients with coeliac disease (mean age 12.3 years) and 19 healthy controls matched by sex and age. Intestinal permeability was studied by measuring the urinary excretion of two sugars, lactulose and L-rhamnose, before and six hours after the ingestion of five palatable biscuits made with 50 g of gluten powder. The patients with coeliac disease had been on a gluten free diet during the previous two years. After the gluten load lactulose and L-rhamnose urinary excretion changed significantly in patients, and a significant increase in the lactulose: L-rhamnose ratio was also observed. No significant changes were observed in the controls. In view of the modification of the three biopsies diagnostic protocol made by the European Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, permeability tests associated with single gluten challenges may be an added contribution to the accuracy of the diagnosis in childhood. 
Clinical course and outcome in class IC antiarrhythmic overdose. 120 cases of class IC antiarrhythmic overdose, including propafenone, flecainide, ajmaline and prajmaline overdose, were evaluated with respect to clinical course, therapy and outcome. Whereas drug overdose in general has an overall mortality of less than 1%, intoxication with antiarrhythmic drugs of class IC was associated with a mean mortality of 22.5%. Nausea, which occurred within the first 30 minutes after ingestion, was the earliest symptom. Spontaneous vomiting probably led to self-detoxication in about half the patients. Cardiac symptoms including bradycardia and, less frequently, tachyrhythmia occurred after about 30 minutes to 2 hours. Therapeutic measures included administration of activated charcoal, gastric lavage and a saline laxative, catecholamines, and in some patients, hypertonic sodium bicarbonate, insertion of a transvenous pacemaker and hemoperfusion. Fatal outcome was mainly due to cardiac conduction disturbances progressing to electromechanical dissociation or asystolia. Resuscitation, which had to be performed in 29 patients, was successful in only two of them. No correlation was found between fatal outcome, the type of antiarrhythmic, and ingested dose. Since a specific treatment is not available and resuscitive procedures including sodium bicarbonate and insertion of a pacemaker are of limited therapeutic value, early diagnosis and primary detoxification are most important for prevention of fatal outcome. 
A pilot study of sphincter-sparing management of adenocarcinoma of the rectum. After analysis of 26 prospectively accrued patients with distal rectal adenocarcinomas who underwent sphincter preservation treatment, we have concluded that tumors that invade only the submucosa can safely be treated with surgery alone and that tumors that invade the muscularis or further can be safely treated with surgery combined with chemoradiotherapy. None of the patients had either local or distant recurrence, with a median follow-up of 21 months. All patients have been fully continent. The results, although preliminary, imply that resection of distal rectal adenocarcinoma with sphincter preservation, and adjuvant therapy when appropriate, have achieved local and distant control equal to the conventional Miles' abdominoperineal resection, but without the need for a permanent colostomy. 
Value of transesophageal echocardiography as an adjunct to transthoracic echocardiography in evaluation of native and prosthetic valve endocarditis. To determine if transesophageal echocardiography provides better visualization of valvular vegetations than transthoracic echocardiography, we used both methods to evaluate 24 consecutive patients (mean age, 54 years; 15 female patients and nine male patients) referred for symptoms suggestive of infectious endocarditis. Ten of the 24 patients had one or more valvular prostheses. Echocardiograms were classified as positive or negative based on visualization of valvular vegetations or abscesses. Of ten patients with a final diagnosis of infectious endocarditis on extended follow-up, transthoracic echocardiography was positive in five patients. Transesophageal echocardiography not only yielded abnormal findings in all ten of these patients, but also revealed additional information in four of the five patients with abnormal transthoracic echocardiographic examinations. Among the 14 patients who, on subsequent follow-up, were found not to have infectious endocarditis, transthoracic echocardiography was normal in 13 and falsely abnormal in one. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed no evidence of infectious endocarditis in any of these patients. The ten patients who were determined to have infectious endocarditis all had positive blood cultures and no alternative cause for their clinical presentation; in seven patients in this group who underwent operative or postmortem evaluation, infectious endocarditis was confirmed. All patients without infectious endocarditis were demonstrated to have other causes for their clinical presentation. We conclude that transesophageal echocardiography is a highly valuable test in the work-up of patients with suspected infectious endocarditis, especially those patients with inconclusive or normal transthoracic echocardiograms. In addition, transesophageal echocardiography may be of benefit to patients with previously documented infectious endocarditis and a complicated clinical course in whom additional cardiac lesions are suspected but not demonstrated by transthoracic echocardiography. 
C5a, cutaneous mast cells, and inflammation: in vitro and in vivo studies in a murine model. To evaluate further the interactions of C5a and mast cells in cutaneous inflammation, the ability of human native C5a (nC5a) (10 to 500 ng/ml) and human recombinant C5a (rC5a) (10 ng/ml to 100 ng/ml) to induce histamine release from purified BALB/c cutaneous mast cells (CMC) and peritoneal mast cells (PMC) was analyzed. It was found that nC5a induced histamine release from CMC but not from PMC, with a maximal net release at 250 ng/ml nC5a (22.8 +/- 2.6%). Kinetic experiments demonstrated that nC5a-induced maximal net histamine release occurred 5 min after the presentation of this stimulus (25.8 +/- 6.0%). Using rC5a and CMC, dose-response studies indicated a maximal net release of 7.0 +/- 1.7% at rC5a of 10 ng/ml, and kinetic studies showed a maximal net release at 5 min of incubation (12.9 +/- 1.6%). Release induced by rC5a was calcium-dependent, and peaked at 30 degrees C. These results indicate that functional heterogeneity exists between the CMC and the PMC of BALB/c mice, that C5a is a relevant stimulus for characterization of this heterogeneity, and that CMC from these animals can serve as a convenient in vitro model for the study of human C5a-mast cell interactions. In vivo, injections of nC5a (25-100 ng) and rC5a (25-100 ng) into the skin of BALB/c mice induced an increase in cutaneous vasopermeability, as assessed by the extravasation of intravenously injected 125I-bovine serum albumin. nC5a induced a dose-dependent increase in vasopermeability, whereas alterations induced by rC5a plateaued at 50 ng. The C5a-induced vasopermeability was markedly enhanced in animals that had been previously treated with an inhibitor of serum carboxypeptidase, which converts C5a to the less potent derivative, C5a des Arg. These findings suggest that carboxypeptidase plays an important role in vivo in the modulation of C5a-induced cutaneous inflammation in murine skin. 
Elevated intravesical pressure causes arterial hypoperfusion in canine colocystoplasty: a fluorometric assessment. Since 1988 there have been 15 reported cases of late, spontaneously ruptured intestinal cystoplasties at bowel sites remote from the anastomosis. Ischemic necrosis has been suggested as a possible etiology. We examined this hypothesis by quantifying the uptake of intravascular fluorescein in the augmented bowel of adult mongrel canines. There was a statistically significant decrease in fluorescein uptake at high intravesical pressures, which appeared to be most pronounced at the antimesenteric border. This laboratory study supports a recent clinical report of histological changes pathognomonic for chronic ischemia in the augmented bowel of patients with spontaneous rupture. 
Predictive value of ventricular arrhythmias for patency of the infarct-related coronary artery after thrombolytic therapy. In animal studies reperfusion of coronary arteries is commonly accompanied by ventricular arrhythmias. It is not certain, however, whether ventricular arrhythmias can be used as a reliable non-invasive marker of reperfusion in humans. Two-channel Holter recordings were obtained from the start of an intravenous infusion of streptokinase until coronary angiography (2.8 (2.7) hours (mean SD)) afterwards) in 57 patients with acute myocardial infarction of less than four hours who were generally not treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. Ventricular arrhythmias occurred in 21 (37%) of the 57 patients: accelerated idioventricular rhythm in 13 patients and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia in 15 patients. Seven patients had both accelerated idioventricular rhythm and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. Coronary angiography showed a patent infarct-related vessel in 12 (92%) of the 13 patients with accelerated idioventricular rhythm (95% confidence interval 66 to 99%), in 22 (50%) of the 44 patients without accelerated idioventricular rhythm (95% CI 34 to 66%), in 11 (73%) of the 15 patients with non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (95% CI 45 to 92%), and in 23 (55%) (95% CI 39 to 71%) of the 42 patients who did not have non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. Seventeen (81%) of the 21 patients with accelerated idioventricular rhythm, or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia, or both, had a patent infarct-related vessel (95% CI 58 to 94%) as did 17 (47%) of the 36 patients with no ventricular arrhythmia (95% CI 29 to 65%). In patients with accelerated idioventricular rhythm after thrombolysis the infarct-related vessel is almost certain to be patent; but the infarct-related coronary artery can still be patent when no arrhythmia is seen. 
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast: mammographic appearance and histologic correlation. The mammograms and histologic slides of 58 cases of atypical hyperplasia (AH) of the breast were retrospectively reviewed to determine the geographic correlation (direct, near, or remote) between mammographic abnormalities (if present) and the histologic findings. A direct mammographic-histologic correlation was found in 24 of the 58 cases (41%), near correlation in 15 (26%), and remote correlation in 19 (33%). Clustered microcalcifications were the most common mammographic abnormality that was directly correlated with AH at histologic examination. Atypical ductal hyperplasia was much more frequently associated with a direct mammographic-histologic correlation than was atypical lobular hyperplasia (48% vs 9%). The authors conclude that, although no pathognomonic appearance of AH was discovered, mammographic abnormalities similar to those of small cancers could be directly correlated with histologic findings in 41% of cases. Since AH has been shown to be associated with a five- to tenfold increased risk of subsequent invasive carcinoma, frequent clinical and at least yearly mammographic follow-up is suggested once AH is discovered. 
A randomized study of closure of the peritoneum at cesarean delivery. This study was conducted to test the hypothesis that nonclosure of the visceral and parietal peritoneum during low transverse cervical cesarean delivery is not associated with increased intraoperative or immediate postoperative complications. One hundred thirteen patients scheduled for low transverse cervical cesarean were randomized to either closure of both the visceral and parietal peritoneum with absorbable suture (N = 59) or no peritoneal closure (N = 54). Patients were cared for in the usual postoperative manner without reference to treatment group. There were no demographic differences between the groups and no differences in method(s) of anesthesia, operative indication(s), or use of peripartum epidural narcotics. The incidence of fever, endometritis, or wound infection was similar between groups. There were no differences in the number of patients requiring parenteral narcotic analgesia or in the number of doses per patient. The number of oral analgesic doses was significantly greater with closure than without (P = .014). The frequency with which postoperative ileus was diagnosed in each group was similar, and there was no difference regarding the day on which patients were advanced to liquid or select diets. Bowel stimulants were administered more frequently to the closure than to non-closure patients (P = .03). The average operating time was shorter for the open group than for the closure group (P less than .005). We conclude that non-closure of the visceral and parietal peritoneum at low transverse cervical cesarean delivery appears to have no adverse effect on immediate postoperative recovery, may decrease postoperative narcotic requirements, allows less complicated return of bowel function, and provides a simplified and shorter surgical procedure. 
Experience with the first 250 endometrial resections for menorrhagia [published erratum appears in Lancet 1991 Jan 1;337(8753):1362] 234 patients with menorrhagia were treated hysteroscopically by transcervical resection of the endometrium (TCRE) instead of hysterectomy. 250 procedures were performed under general anaesthesia (63%) or under sedation plus local anaesthesia (38%). The endometrium was excised either totally (91%) or partially (9%) in all but one case, and 56 (22%) of the patients underwent simultaneous resection of submucous fibroids. Surgical time (range 10-100 min) varied with the gynaecologist's experience. 479 ml was the average volume of uterine irrigant absorbed by the patient. Blood loss was usually slight. Operative complications were uncommon, but 4 (2%) women sustained a uterine perforation (without serious sequelae), 7 (3%) absorbed more than 2 litres of fluid, and 1 required tamponade to control postoperative bleeding. Hospital stay was short and full recovery usual by 1-2 weeks. Menstrual symptoms improved in over 90% of the patients throughout the follow-up of up to 2 1/2 years; 27-42% of the women became amenorrhoeic at some time after total TCRE. Results were best in women greater than 35 years of age, but was not influenced by the presence of fibroids or pretreatment dysmenorrhoea. 10 (4%) women later underwent hysterectomy. Hysteroscopy 3 and 12 months after surgery revealed a small, fibrotic uterine cavity in the majority. 
Pathologic fibrosis and matrix connective tissue in the subaortic myocardium of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. To evaluate scar-type and matrix connective tissue and to assess their role in the diastolic dysfunction of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, surgically resected subaortic myectomy specimens and several autopsy hearts from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were studied. Eighteen specimens were differentially stained by a newly developed method that precisely determines relative collagen content; these tissues were compared with postmortem hypertrophied and normal control subaortic specimens. Quantitation revealed a 72% higher level (36.5 vs. 22.1 micrograms collagen/mg protein) of stainable collagen in the hearts with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy than in hypertrophied control hearts. The endocardial plaque was quantitated morphometrically, and it constituted only 4.6 +/- 1.7% of the total increased collagen content in the cardiomyopathy specimens. For the matrix studies, the cardiomyopathy specimens were stained by a silver impregnation technique that identifies connective tissue elements not normally visible with routine histologic methods. There was a marked increase in content of all matrix components, both in areas of pathologic scarring and in "normal" zones. Whorls of matrix connective tissue were noted in regions of myocyte whorls, as well as independent of them. Thus, these studies revealed a striking increase of both scar-type and matrix connective tissue in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The extensive scarring and the pronounced interstitial and intercellular matrix connective tissue may contribute to the increased ventricular chamber stiffness and impaired relaxation in this disease. 
Erythropoietin concentrations in obstructive sleep apnoea. Eight patients with obstructive sleep apnoea and a normal haemoglobin concentration underwent nocturnal studies during which oxyhaemoglobin saturation was recorded continuously with an ear oximeter and serum erythropoietin concentration was measured hourly by means of a radioimmunoassay. Serum erythropoietin concentrations remained within the normal range throughout the study despite falls in oxyhaemaglobin saturation in individuals to 33-78%. There was no relation between the degree of nocturnal hypoxaemia and serum erythropoietin concentrations. The brief cyclical episodes of hypoxaemia typical of obstructive sleep apnoea may not be a sufficient stimulus for erythropoietin secretion. 
Growth of tracheal anastomoses: advantage of absorbable interrupted sutures [published erratum appears in Ann Thorac Surg 1991 Jul;52(1):176] Growth of the trachea after complete transection and anastomosis was studied in four groups of 1-month-old New Zealand white rabbits. The trachea was transected at the fifth cartilaginous ring and then anastomosed with continuous 6-0 polypropylene (Prolene) (group 1), interrupted 6-0 polypropylene (group 2), continuous 6-0 polydioxanone (PDS) (group 3), or interrupted 6-0 PDS (group 4). The animals were followed up for 90 to 103 days (mean follow-up, 95 days). At the time the animals were killed, body weight had increased 125% (1.2 to 2.7 +/- 0.18 kg). Growth of the trachea was assessed at the time of death. Results from this study suggest that growth of a tracheal anastomosis is retarded in a growing animal model. The degree of resultant stenosis was significantly less when an absorbable suture material (PDS) and an interrupted suturing technique were used. 
Impedance plethysmography: a new method for continuous muscle perfusion monitoring. Vigilant postoperative monitoring of the buried muscle flap is critical after free transfer because early diagnosis of vascular insufficiency is essential to allow prompt correction. We have identified a monitoring method utilizing needle electrodes and impedance plethysmography that gives a beat-to-beat representation of muscular perfusion. In 25 New Zealand White rabbits the gastrocnemius muscle was isolated on its vascular pedicle, and two intramuscular needle electrodes were placed. The instantaneous impedance changes of the muscle (corresponding to the pulsatile volume changes of perfusion) were measured and recorded. Using this representation of perfusion, an independent judge was able to correctly diagnose muscular ischemia 100 percent of the time (n = 25). Further, the judge was able to correctly distinguish the ischemia as arterial (n = 10) or venous (n = 10) in origin 100 percent of the time. Additionally, we monitored muscle perfusion transcutaneously in five free muscle flaps and demonstrated a reliable impedance signal that correlated with perfusion. 
Sclerosing vasculopathy of the central nervous system in nonelderly demented patients. Three nonelderly patients without hypertension whose clinical and radiologic features otherwise resembled Binswanger's subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy underwent biopsy of the hyperintense periventricular lesions seen on magnetic resonance imaging. The pathologic findings of the periventricular lesions consisted of gliosis with mild rarefaction and edema of the white matter. All patients had a sclerosing vasculopathy of unknown cause, which involved numerous small vessels within the periventricular lesions. The vessels stained negatively for amyloid, amyloid precursors, desmin, vimentin, keratin, immunoglobulin, and complement. On electron microscopy, small arteries, arterioles, venules, and capillaries were characterized by swollen astrocytic foot processes surrounding the vessels; dense, perivascular collagen packing; crystalline arrays of filaments within basement membrane; giant lipid-laden lysosomes within perivascular cells; and narrowing of the vascular lumina. Similar changes were not seen in a control group of 19 patients. The pathologic features of the vessels in these cases are distinct from the vasculopathy associated with Binswanger's subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy. We suggest that a spectrum of vasculopathies may be associated with dementia and periventricular hyperintense lesions on magnetic resonance imaging. 
Invasive treatment of pancreatic fluid collections with surgical and nonsurgical methods. Pancreatic fluid collections (PFC) can be drained surgically or nonsurgically with endoscopic or radiologic techniques. To define subgroups of patients with PFC who would benefit from the new modalities, we reviewed a period (1977 to 1990) during which both surgical and nonsurgical invasive techniques were available. Patients with phlegmon or necrosis at initial diagnosis were excluded. Sixty-five patients (35 male, 30 female) underwent 1 or more drainage procedures. A mean postprocedure follow-up of 10.2 months was available for 59 patients. Initial management was nonsurgical in 80% of patients. Procedures in patients with follow-up comprised invasive nonsurgical drainage (n = 25), invasive nonsurgical drainage plus surgery (n = 22), and surgery only (n = 12). Results for each group, respectively, were: morbidity, 20%, 20%, and 24%; mortality, 8%, 5%, and 0%; and successful drainage, 92%, 82%, and 83%. The choice of management appeared to be based on etiology and radiologic characteristics. Patients with nonalcohol- and nonbiliary-associated pancreatitis without a radiographically defined wall were more common in the invasive nonsurgical group and were successfully treated without surgery. Nonsurgical invasive techniques are efficacious in the treatment of PFC in this subgroup of patients. 
Seromuscular enterocystoplasty in rats. Enterocystoplasty is commonly used in clinical practice. Many of its undesirable effects, that is infections, stones, mucus production, absorption of urinary components into the blood stream and risk of cancer, result from the intestinal mucosa lining the urinary tract. We report on the feasibility of creating an enterocytoplasty with a seromuscular colonic segment that acquires a transitional epithelial lining. Augmentation enterocystoplasty was performed in 51 male, 500 gm., Sprague-Dawley rats with a 1.82 cm.2 patch of left colon from which the mucosa had been stripped. The serosal surface was used as lining for the enterocystoplasty. The intestinal patch and the bladder capacity at known pressure were measured at operation and at sacrifice. The histology of the enterocystoplasty was studied in detail following sacrifice. Of the animals 40 survived without significant complications and were sacrificed at a mean postoperative time of 30 days (range 5 to 80 days). In the remaining 11 rats a bladder stone developed but it did not seem to affect the outcome of the experiment. The size of the patch could be measured in 22 rats: it was 1.82 cm.2 (standard deviation +/- 0.86) at operation and 2.30 cm.2 (standard deviation +/- 1.1) at sacrifice. In none of the rats did the patch decrease in size. The bladder capacity at a known pressure (mean 17 cm. water) could be measured in 26 animals: it was 2.35 ml. (standard deviation +/- 0.65) at operation and 5.18 ml. (standard deviation +/- 1.19) at sacrifice. Histological analysis was done in 40 rats. In all cases the serosal surface was lined with transitional epithelium, there was no fibrosis or inflammation and the structure of the muscular layer of the bowel remained intact. The earliest growth of uroepithelium in the serosal surface of the bowel was noted at 5 days. This model suggests that the seromuscular enterocystoplasty can be constructed successfully in the rat model. The seromuscular intestinal patch does not shrink. The bladder capacity increases and histology shows a uroepithelial lining of the augmentation. 
Obesity: types and treatments. Causes of obesity include a low resting metabolic rate, environmental factors, family behavior patterns, a poorly developed satiety response and reactive eating due to stress or anxiety. Morbid obesity is characterized by an increased number of adipocytes and a degree of irreversibility. Overeating increases the size of adipocytes; however, once adipocytes achieve their maximal size, proliferation is induced and massive, irreversible obesity may result. A syndrome of restrained eating produced by chronic dieting leads to hunger, frustration and rebound overeating. Treatment may be unsuccessful because of the failure to address specific causes of obesity in individual patients and the use of reducing regimens that are not designed to maintain weight loss. Recognition of the diverse clinical forms of obesity and their different etiologies permits treatment regimens to be more specific, increasing the likelihood of success. Even with this approach, treatment failure is common. 
Transmembrane domain length variation in the evolution of major histocompatibility complex class I genes. The fifth exons of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I genes encode a transmembrane domain (TM) that is largely responsible for class I antigen cell-surface expression usually through conventional hydrophobic amino acid-membrane interactions or, less often, through phosphatidylinositol linkage. In this report we show that Peromyscus leucopus, a Cricetidae rodent, has MHC class I genes (Pele-A genes) encoding three distinct sizes of TMs. Increases in TM lengths were due to tandem duplications of sequences similar to human hypervariable minisatellite repeats and the lambda chi site. We discerned remnants of a similar duplication event in comparable rodent and primate MHC class I genes. Furthermore, several duplications and deletions appear to have occurred independently in H-2, RT1, Pele-A, and ChLA genes in near-identical positions. Accumulated data suggests that sequences in the fifth exon of MHC class I genes may, therefore, constitute a mutational or recombinational hot spot that is mediated by minisatellite- and chi-like sequences imbedded within the coding region. The MHC class I genes may thus have recruited "selfish" DNA in their evolution to encode cell surface proteins. Expression of Pele-A genes was examined by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using oligonucleotide primers specific for exon 4 and 5 sequences. The PCR product sizes indicated that genes encoding each TM domain length are ubiquitously transcribed. 
The use of FDG-PET in the detection and management of malignant lymphoma: correlation of uptake with prognosis. Twenty-one patients with untreated malignant lymphoma in the head and neck region were evaluated with positron emission tomography (PET) using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and gallium-67 SPECT imaging. Tumor-to-normal soft-tissue contrast ratios (TCRs) obtained 60 min after injection of FDG were higher than 2.6, and all malignant lymphomas were clearly visualized. In patients with poor prognosis, higher TCRs and glucose utilization rates (GURs) were observed, whereas low TCR and GUR were shown in a patient with low-grade malignancy. In comparison with 67Ga scintigraphy, patients with high TCRs and GURs were likely to show increased accumulation of gallium-67, but accumulation of gallium-67 was not increased as much as FDG in poor prognostic patients. FDG-PET may be useful in the detection and management of malignant lymphoma. 
Campylobacter enteritis--New Zealand, 1990. In August-September 1990, an outbreak of Campylobacter enteritis occurred at a camp near Christchurch, New Zealand. This report provides a preliminary summary of the investigation of this outbreak by the New Zealand Communicable Disease Centre and the Canterbury Area Health Board. 
Usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of conditions mimicking aortic dissection. Between September 1987 and April 1989, forty patients suspected to have aortic dissection were evaluated by transesophageal echocardiography. Aortic dissection was identified in 18 patients. This study evaluated the ability of transesophageal echocardiography in the assessment of the 22 patients in whom aortic dissection was not found. A range of pathologic conditions was diagnosed in these patients. Five patients had ischemic heart disease when they were initially seen. Among the remaining 17 only one patient had a normal aorta. Aortic disease was present in the other 16 patients with aortic dilatation in 10. Atheromas were detected in seven patients with concomitant aortic dilatation in five of them. An extrinsic aortic mass was present in two patients. Transesophageal echocardiography correctly identified an anastomotic leak at the site of left coronary artery implantation in a patient with a recent Bentall procedure, and a large mobile clot within the proximal descending aorta in a patient with blunt chest trauma. These findings obviated the need for other tests in 15 patients and led to surgery in four with no ancillary tests performed in three of them. Thus transesophageal echocardiography has an important role in assessing patients with suspected dissection. Aortic disease is common even in patients in whom aortic dissection is excluded, and some of the conditions can be just as life-threatening as dissection. Transesophageal echocardiography not only reliably identifies dissection but can also detect luminal and extraluminal diseases not adequately visualized by other modalities. 
Dispersion of refractoriness in canine ventricular myocardium. Effects of sympathetic stimulation. In 18 dogs on total cardiopulmonary bypass, the average interval between local activations during artificially induced ventricular fibrillation (VF interval) was measured from extracellular electrograms, simultaneously recorded from up to 32 ventricular sites. VF intervals were used as an index of local refractoriness, based on the assumption that during ventricular fibrillation, cells are reexcited as soon as they have recovered their excitability. In support of this, microelectrode recordings in two hearts during ventricular fibrillation did not show a diastolic interval between successive action potentials. Refractory periods determined at a basic cycle length of 300 msec with the extrastimulus method correlated well with VF intervals measured at the same sites. Thus, this technique allows assessment of spatial dispersion of refractoriness during brief interventions such as sympathetic stimulation. The responses to left, right, and combined stellate ganglion stimulation varied substantially among individual hearts. This was observed both in dogs with an intact (n = 12) and decentralized (n = 6) autonomic nervous system. Individual ventricular sites could show effects of both left and right stellate ganglion stimulation (42% of tested sites) or show effects of left-sided stimulation only (31%) or right-sided stimulation only (14%). In 13% of sites, no effects of stellate stimulation were observed. Apart from these regional effects, the responses could be qualitatively different; that is, within the same heart, the VF interval prolonged at one site but shortened at another in response to the same intervention, although shortening was the general effect and prolongation the exception. Whenever sites responded to stellate ganglion stimulation with a shortening of VF interval, this shortening was approximately 10% for left, right, or combined stimulation, whether the autonomic nervous system was intact or decentralized. In six of 12 hearts in the intact group, there was a distinct regional effect of left stellate ganglion stimulation; in the other six hearts, the effects were distributed homogeneously over the ventricles. In three hearts, the effect of left stellate ganglion stimulation was strongest in the posterior wall, and in the other three hearts, in the anterior wall. The effects of right stellate ganglion stimulation were restricted to the anterior or lateral part of the left ventricle. Dispersion of VF intervals increased after left and combined stellate ganglion stimulation in the intact group and after right stellate ganglion stimulation in the decentralized group, but not significantly in every heart. This points to a marked individual variation with regard to the effects of sympathetic stimulation on electrophysiological properties of the heart. 
Depressed contractile function due to canine mitral regurgitation improves after correction of the volume overload [published erratum appears in J Clin Invest 1991 Aug;88(2):723] It is known that long-standing volume overload on the left ventricle due to mitral regurgitation eventually leads to contractile dysfunction. However, it is unknown whether or not correction of the volume overload can lead to recovery of contractility. In this study we tested the hypothesis that depressed contractile function due to volume overload in mitral regurgitation could return toward normal after mitral valve replacement. Using a canine model of mitral regurgitation which is known to produce contractile dysfunction, we examined contractile function longitudinally in seven dogs at baseline, after 3 mo of mitral regurgitation, 1 mo after mitral valve replacement, and 3 mo after mitral valve replacement. After 3 mo of mitral regurgitation (regurgitant fraction 0.62 +/- 0.04), end-diastolic volume had nearly doubled from 68 +/- 6.8 to 123 +/- 12.1 ml (P less than 0.05). All five indices of contractile function which we examined were depressed. For instance, maximum fiber elastance (EmaxF) obtained by assessment of time-varying elastance decreased from 5.95 +/- 0.71 to 2.25 +/- 0.18 (P less than 0.05). The end-systolic stiffness constant (k) was also depressed from 4.2 +/- 0.4 to 2.1 +/- 0.3. 3 mo after mitral valve replacement all indexes of contractile function had returned to or toward normal (e.g., EmaxF 3.65 +/- 0.21 and k 4.2 +/- 0.3). We conclude that previously depressed contractile function due to volume overload can improve after correction of the overload. 
Septic shock. Septic shock (SS) is the most common type of shock encountered by internists, and its prevalence appears to be increasing. SS complicates all types of infections. The hemodynamic characteristics of SS include a low systemic vascular resistance and an elevated, but relatively inadequate, cardiac output. A cardiomyopathy frequently occurs. The major endogenous mediator of SS is tumor necrosis factor, and interleukins-1 and -2 may also contribute. Important secondary phenomena include release of platelet activating factor, vasodilator prostaglandins, and upregulation of adhesion molecules on polymorphonuclear leukocytes and endothelial cells. Current therapy is often ineffectual, and potentially promising new therapeutic approaches are reviewed. 
Clinical indications for cervical spine radiographs in alert trauma patients. Cervical spine fracture/dislocation is a potentially devastating injury that may be clinically difficult to diagnose. Therefore, a vast majority of trauma patients undergo cervical spine X rays when only a relatively small number of them will actually have a cervical spine injury. Because of the costly overuse of radiography, studies have been undertaken to define high yield criteria for evaluation of patients. This study examined the characteristics of acute cervical spine fracture/dislocation in alert trauma patients. Of 79 patients with this discharge diagnosis at St. Elizabeth Hospital Medical Center between 1982 and 1987, 47 met the criteria of Class I level of consciousness. All 47 patients complained of neck pain or demonstrated cervical tenderness to palpation. Other parameters (such as loss of consciousness, paresthesias, decreased sensation, weakness, cervical muscle spasm, decreased anal tone, and associated injuries) did not, individually or in combination with each other, consistently predict cervical spine injury. Although occult or painless cervical spine injuries have been reported in the literature, a careful review of these cases revealed that these injuries were not truly asymptomatic. Our study suggests that selected patients can be excluded from radiologic evaluation of the cervical spine. However, large prospective studies are needed to validate this finding. 
Pacemaker failure on induction of anaesthesia. A patient with a permanent pacemaker presented for repair of a strangulated hernia. During induction of anaesthesia, the pacemaker generator stopped discharging, thus causing cardiac arrest. The likely cause of the generator failure was inhibition by suxamethonium-induced muscle fasciculations. Following defibrillation, and increase in stimulation threshold necessitated urgent insertion of a transvenous pacing system. It is suggested that, when suxamethonium is to be used in a patient with a permanent pacemaker, consideration should be given to reprogramming the pacemaker to asynchronous mode before induction of anaesthesia. If a patient with a pacemaker requires defibrillation, an acute increase in stimulation threshold may result and cause loss of capture. Rapid insertion of a transvenous pacing system may be necessary. 
Shock wave-induced pancreatic trauma. A case is described of the appearance of a pancreatic or peripancreatic lesion after left renal calculus fragmentation by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL). Its anatomical location and subsequent disappearance suggest it was related to trauma caused by the shock waves. The brief literature on pancreatic injury after ESWL is reviewed, and the role of the patient's underlying liver disease in the genesis of this complication is discussed. 
Different types of skew deviation. Although all manifest skew deviations appear the same for the clinician, skew deviation can result from different combinations of dysconjugate vertical ocular deviations. Evidence is presented for three different types of skew deviation when it occurs as a feature of an ocular tilt reaction. In type 1 (utricle) there is upward deviation of both eyes with different amplitudes, as described for otolith Tullio phenomenon in humans. In Type 2 (dorsolateral medulla oblongata) hypertropia of one eye occurs while the other eye remains in the primary position, the hypothetical mechanism of skew deviation in Wallenberg's syndrome. In Type 3 (midbrain tegmentum) there is simultaneous hypertropia of one eye and hypotropia of the other eye, as described for electrical stimulation of midbrain tegmentum in monkeys and observed in clinical cases with a paroxysmal ocular tilt reaction. 
Effect of P6 acupressure on postoperative vomiting in children undergoing outpatient strabismus correction. A prospective, double-blind study was conducted to compare the effect of pressure at the P6 (Neikuan) point with placebo as an antiemetic in children. Sixty-six patients, ages 3-12 yr, undergoing outpatient surgery for correction of strabismus, were allocated randomly to receive either bilateral P6 acupressure or placebo during the perioperative period. The study was designed to detect a 50% difference in the incidence of postoperative vomiting between the two groups, with a 90% power of achieving a statistically significant result at the 5% level (two-tailed). The incidence of postoperative vomiting for the placebo group was 58% before discharge from hospital, 73% at home and 82% in the first 24 h after surgery. The corresponding results for the acupressure group were 58% before discharge, 71% at home and 94% in the first 24 h. These differences were not significant; P6 acupressure did not reduce the incidence of postoperative vomiting in children undergoing strabismus surgery. 
Prognosis for recovery from prolonged posttraumatic unawareness: logistic analysis. This study reviews the course and outcome of 130 patients who remained in a state of prolonged unawareness 30 days after severe cranio-cerebral trauma. Prognostic indicators and outcome were fitted by a logistic model. The significant prognostic factors observable in the first week after trauma were found to be ventilatory status, motor reactivity and significant extraneural trauma. The significant prognostic factors after the first month of unawareness were early ventilatory status, early motor reactivity, late epilepsy and hydrocephalus. The estimated probability of recovery of awareness (that is, consciousness) ranged from 0.94 in patients with early decorticate posturing in the absence of both extraneural trauma and ventilatory disturbance to 0.06 in patients with flaccidity, extraneural trauma and ventilatory disturbance in the first week after injury. 
Coronary artery thrombolysis: comparison of approved agents. Three agents approved for the lysis of thrombi in coronary arteries--alteplase, anistreplase and streptokinase--have undergone critical clinical experimental trials in Europe and the United States. Global comparison of their efficacy shows that alteplase is slightly more effective (71 percent) in restoring patency than anistreplase (60 percent) and streptokinase (58 percent). Streptokinase and anistreplase are allergenic, and repeat administration is not feasible in the short-term, a distinct advantage for alteplase. More accurate dosing of thrombolytic agents and skillful use of aspirin and heparin improve the efficacy of thrombolytic therapy but can also increase the risk of bleeding. A recanalization rate of 90 percent or more could be achieved if the thrombolytic agent is administered within the first hour after thrombosis. Administration this soon after the development of thrombosis may be possible if the agent is given outside the hospital by practicing physicians or, perhaps, paramedics. 
Preoperative prediction of pathological tumor volume and stage in clinically localized prostate cancer: comparison of digital rectal examination, transrectal ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. Accurate preoperative staging is important for proper selection of patients for radical retropubic prostatectomy. Preoperative staging by digital rectal examination, transrectal ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Gleason grade and prostate specific antigen was compared to pathological stage for 25 patients who underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy. The predictive value for tumor confinement was 36% by rectal examination, 37% by ultrasound and 30% by MRI. The predictive value for extracapsular disease was 100% by rectal examination, 83% by ultrasound and 66% by MRI. Preoperative determinations of tumor volume by any modality did not correlate with pathological tumor volume. Digital rectal examination, ultrasound and MRI clinically understage the disease in most patients but they may be reliable to predict extracapsular disease. 
Sublaminar fixation in lumbosacral fusions. Sublaminar fixation to stainless steel rectangles was employed in an effort to improve the fusion rate in lumbar and lumbosacral arthrodesis. Thirty-seven patients had spondylolisthesis, and 26 had other causes of pain secondary to lumbar mechanical instability. Of the 63 patients, 53 achieved fusion and 52 had relief of pain. No infections or neurologic complications were encountered. This fusion rate of 84% does not significantly differ from rates obtained with noninstrumented methods, and this construct is no longer used for lumbar fusions. 
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy and Kearns-Sayre syndrome: mitochondrial DNA mutations. Mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) supplies extranuclear (cytoplasmic) genes which program the manufacture of 13 of the 67 peptides of the mitochondrial respiratory enzymes. The remaining 54 are coded by nuclear DNA. All human children and adults, male and female, are entirely dependent on the cytoplasm of the ovum for their complement of mt DNA; the sperm contributes none. Accordingly, mutations in the mt DNA in a mother's ova will be passed on to all her children, although not all are clinically affected. Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy is in most cases due to a mutation that leads to the replacement of guanine by adenine at position 11778 in mt DNA. This causes histidine to be inserted instead of the normal arginine at the site of the 340th amino acid in the respiratory enzyme NADH subunit 4, hence its defective function. Other point mutations in the mt DNA coding for polypeptides of the respiratory chain complex or controlling sequences coded by mt DNA have been found in other families with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. Mitochondrial DNA is the site of other mutations as well. For ophthalmologists, the most important of these is the rare Kearns-Sayre syndrome (pigmentary retinopathy plus muscular dystrophies, especially of the extraocular muscles). Kearns-Sayre syndrome is due to deletions in the mt DNA, which vary in size and so affect a number of different respiratory enzymes, hence the variable manifestations. Cases are usually sporadic because the disease is often so severe that affected individuals do not reproduce if they survive, but in some cases inheritance from the mother has been reported. 
Treatment of uterine leiomyomata with a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist: the possibility of nonsurgical management in selected perimenopausal women. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist (LH-RH-a) in the treatment of leiomyomata. DESIGN: A retrospective randomized trial. SETTING: Hospital department of obstetrics and gynecology. PATIENTS: Twenty-five women, ages 36 to 54 years with symptomatic uterine leiomyomata, were divided into two groups according to the responsiveness to LH-RH-a: group A patients reached menopause after LH-RH-a, whereas resumption of menstruation occurred within 12 weeks after cessation of therapy in group B. INTERVENTIONS: Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist was administered intranasally three times a day with 150 micrograms insufflation of one spray in each nostril (total dose: 900 micrograms/d). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Efficacies of treatment were assessed in terms of uterine volume, hemoglobin concentrations, serum levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol (E2), and bone density during and after treatment. RESULTS: In both groups, hemoglobin concentrations increased significantly after 16 weeks of treatment. A significant reduction in uterine volume was observed in both groups. After completing therapy, there was no further significant change in uterine volume in group A, whereas uterine volume in group B returned to pretreatment values. Serum LH and FSH concentrations were suppressed during treatment, but those gonadotropins in group A increased significantly up to the menopausal levels after treatment. Serum E2 concentrations in both groups showed consistent suppression by the end of the first treatment cycle. After cessation of therapy, serum E2 levels on group A remained in the castrate range, whereas E2 in group B returned to pretreatment levels, concomitant with the return of normal ovulation. CONCLUSIONS: Intranasal administration of LH-RH-a was successful in significantly decreasing uterine volume and increasing hemoglobin concentration in premenopausal women with leiomyomata. 
Expression of Tn, sialosyl Tn, and T antigens in human pancreas. Carbohydrate antigens representing some of the initial steps in mucin O-linked glycosylation were examined in specimens of normal pancreas, chronic pancreatitis, and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Tn antigen, recognized by Vicia villosa lectin, was expressed by all specimens of normal pancreas (acinar cells) and pancreatic cancers and all but one case of chronic pancreatitis. Sialosyl Tn antigen, recognized by monoclonal antibody TKH2, was expressed in a cancer-associated fashion, being completely absent in normal pancreas but expressed by 56% of chronic pancreatitis and 97% of pancreatic cancers. T antigen, recognized by monoclonal antibody AH9-16, was expressed in 68% of normal pancreas (acinar cells), 67% of chronic pancreatitis, and 48% of pancreatic cancer tissues. These results indicate that normal acinar cells of the pancreas are capable of expressing selected carbohydrate structures associated with the initial steps of mucin glycosylation. The marked expression of sialosyl Tn compared with T antigen in pancreatic cancers suggests that with malignant transformation there is selective usage of glycosyltransferase enzymes involved in mucin oligosaccharide synthesis. 
Patterns of epithelial migration in the unaffected ear in patients with a history of unilateral cholesteatoma. Epithelial migration in a centrifugal manner is an established phenomenon in the normal human tympanic membrane. This pattern of migration is symmetrical in both ears of any one individual. We present a prospective study on the pattern of tympanic ink dot migration on the normal drum, in patients with a history of cholesteatoma in one ear. It was demonstrated that patients who develop cholesteatoma have a normal migratory pattern and rate in the unaffected ear. The conclusion from this study is that defective migration is not the initiating factor in the development of acquired cholesteatoma. 
The use of CT scanning to triage patients requiring admission following minimal head injury. Recent data have suggested that patients with both a normal cranial CT scan and normal neurologic examination following minimal head injury (MHI) have no risk of neurologic deterioration. This study prospectively examined the safety of discharging patients from the emergency department (ED) after MHI whether or not there was a responsible observer at home. MHI was defined as a history of loss of consciousness (LOC), a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 14 or 15, and no focal neurologic findings. In a 4-month period 111 patients with MHI were evaluated. Fifteen (14%) patients had a CT scan which revealed an intracerebral injury; 96 patients had a normal CT scan; five patients with normal CT scans were admitted because of persistent lethargy; and one patient was admitted after his CT that demonstrated an old infarct; the remaining 90 patients were discharged. There were 71 men and 19 women with a mean age of 29 years. The mechanism of injury was assault in 55, MVA in 30, and falls in five. The initial GCS in was 15 in 79 and 14 in 11. Fifty-eight per cent of patients were intoxicated. Fifty-seven (63%) patients were successfully contacted by telephone; none had developed any neurologic symptoms. Thirty-one patients who could not be followed up gave fictitious phone numbers. These data suggest that CT can reliably triage patients who can be discharged from the ED following MHI, even in the absence of a responsible observer. Hospital admission can be avoided in more than 80% of patients sustaining MHI, better utilizing scarce hospital resources. 
Collateral circulation as a marker of the presence of viable myocardium in patients with recent myocardial infarction. The relationship between the presence of viable myocardium and the extent of coronary collateral circulation to the infarct area was evaluated in 20 patients with a recent anterior myocardial infarction who had complete obstruction of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The viability of myocardial tissue was assessed by exercise thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy, and the collateral circulation was angiographically evaluated by means of a collateral index ranging from 0 to 3. Patients were divided into two groups according to the presence (group 1, n = 10) or absence (group 2, n = 10) of viable myocardium in the perfusion territory of the infarct-related artery. The collateral index in group 1 was 2.5 +/- 0.5 (SD), which was significantly higher than the 0.7 +/- 0.8 in group 2. These findings indicate that the presence of ischemic but viable myocardium is intimately related to the development of collateral circulation in patients with myocardial infarction, and the existence of well-developed collateral channels predicts the presence of viable myocardium in the infarct area. 
Patient dose and associated risk due to radiological investigation of the internal auditory meatus. The radiation doses and associated somatic risks due to four radiological examinations for acoustic neuromata (AN) have been investigated. These examinations were (1) plain film radiography of the internal auditory meatus (IAM), (2) computed tomography (CT) of the IAM, (3) CT of the posterior fossa and (4) CT of the IAM with air contrast. Organ dose measurements were performed using lithium fluoride thermoluminescent dosemeters loaded in a patient equivalent phantom. Dose equivalents to various organs are presented, together with the effective dose equivalent and collective effective dose equivalent for each examination. Hypothetical fatal somatic risks for each examination studied here have been estimated from the effective dose equivalents. The estimated number of hypothetical fatal cancers induced by radiological examinations for AN is between approximately 110 and 820 times lower than the number of detected AN, depending on the method of assessing the radiation dose to the remainder organs. It is concluded that in this particular study the radiological examinations are of net benefit to this group of patients. 
Hydatidiform mole and fetus with normal karyotype: support of a separate entity. Repetitive hydatidiform mole was observed in four pregnancies. The pregnancies presented with heavy bleeding and vomiting, but the post-evacuation courses were uncomplicated, with rapid regression of serum hCG levels. Cytogenetic investigations, analyses of restriction fragment length polymorphisms, and flow cytometry in three pregnancies were consistent with diploid, biparental conception as the origin of fetal tissue and molar and nonmolar villi. In one pregnancy, the analyses of cytogenetic markers suggested the coexistence of two different cell lines of dizygotic, biparental origin, whereas DNA analysis was consistent with a single conception. With incomplete genetic information, a hydatidiform mole with coexistent normal fetus is generally considered to result from dizygous twinning comprising an androgenetic complete mole and a normal conception. In the present gestations, the results based on several techniques applied on numerous samples from different tissues render this possibility unlikely. Some of the contradictions between histologic and cytogenetic classifications of hydatidiform mole may be explained by diploid, biparental partial mole, which seems to constitute a separate subgroup within hydatidiform mole. Following chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis, continued pregnancy may be considered, depending on prenatal diagnosis including genetic marker analysis. 
Phenothiazine-associated apnea in two siblings. A two-month-old white girl presented to our facility with increasing lethargy and new onset apnea and bradycardia following a week of upper respiratory tract infection symptoms. The patient had been receiving a cough syrup containing promethazine hydrochloride during the previous five days, which was temporally correlated with the onset of lethargy and apneic episodes. Upon further investigation, it was discovered that the patient's older sibling also may have experienced phenothiazine-associated apnea after receiving a combination of meperidine hydrochloride, promethazine hydrochloride, and chlorpromazine as a premedication prior to an endoscopic examination. In addition to the presentation of these cases, the literature pertaining to phenothiazine-associated apnea is reviewed. 
Confirmation of endotracheal tube placement: a miniaturized infrared qualitative CO2 detector. STUDY OBJECTIVES: A miniaturized, infrared, solid-state, end-tidal CO2 detector was used to confirm emergency endotracheal tube (ETT) placement. DESIGN: This prospective, clinical study used a miniature, infrared, solid-state end-tidal CO2 detector to confirm ETT placement in an acute setting. SETTING: The ICU, emergency department, and hospital floor. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: There were 88 consecutive adult patients requiring 100 emergency intubations. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The indication for airway intervention was considered urgent in 79% and under arrest conditions in 21%. The mean number of intubation attempts was 1.83 (range, one to five) with difficulty of intubation of 6.48 and confirmation of 7.75, on a linear scale from 0 (lowest) to 10 (highest). Determination of ETT position revealed intratracheal intubation in 96% and esophageal intubation in 4%. Placement was confirmed by direct visualization or radiography in all cases. Sensitivity and specificity for ETT localization was 100% (P less than .0001). CONCLUSION: This hand-held infrared capnometer reliably confirms ETT placement under emergency conditions. 
Lateral rhachotomy for thoracic spinal lesions. Capener's "Lateral Rhachotomy" was modified by additional excision of the pedicle, articular facets, part of the lamina, and a posterior half of the vertebral bodies on one side through a transpleural approach to the thoracic spine, and a retroperitoneal approach to the lumbar spine. The aim was to excise a space-occupying lesion, which exists in front of the thoracic or lumbar spinal cord, safely. This modification enable the authors to expose more than 50% of the spinal canal, and decompress it from its anterior, lateral, and posterior compressing mass. The utmost important point of this procedure is the excision of the lesion under the direct visualization of the dura. In ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL), the dura is usually indented by the thick bony mass, and the lesion extends over a few segment with adhesion. Using "Modified Lateral Rhachotomy," it was possible to explore three or four vertebral levels in continuity through the same skin incision. In the present report, the authors described their "Modified Lateral Rhachotomy" procedure, and reviewed the case material. 
Factor XIII subunits in relation to some other hemostatic parameters in ulcerative colitis. The hemostatic parameters, particularly with respect to F.XIII subunits, were examined in 48 untreated UC patients (22 at active and 26 at quiescent stage). UC active patients showed a significant decrease of F.XIII subunit "a," compared with healthy subjects, as well as in UC patients in remission. In contrast, the level of F.XIII subunit "b" in each group was similar. Compared with normal subjects, UC active patients revealed a significant decrease in AT III concentration, prolonged ELT, and elevated fibrinogen level. In addition, the elevated titer of SDPS test for SFMC appeared in approximately 40% of those patients. However, no strict relationship was found between the presence of positive SDPS and diminution of AT III, as well as of F.XIIII subunit "a" in active UC state. In patients in remission, AT III level and ELT were similar to those as in the control group, but fibrinogen concentration was elevated. Such constellation of hemostatic parameters may indicate a tendency to blood hypercoagulability in UC active patients, whereas, in general, these changes are not associated with the stage of remission. The present data may also suggest that F.XIII behavior pattern should be taken into account in the clinical management of UC. 
The prevalence of carcinoma in palpable vs impalpable, mammographically detected lesions. Concern over excessive numbers of false-positive mammograms, leading to unnecessary investigations and surgical interventions, has been cited as a barrier to mammographic screening for breast cancer. We compared the biopsy results from palpable vs impalpable, mammographically detected lesions from one experienced breast surgeon's practice from July 1980 through July 1989. Overall, there were 372 biopsies in 346 women. Of 143 biopsies for palpable abnormalities, 48 (34%) yielded a primary malignant lesion. The length of the palpable cancers averaged 3.7 cm (median, 2.8 cm). Sixteen (33%) of the 48 biopsies were in patients who had positive axillary lymph nodes, and five (10%) were in patients who had distant metastases at the time of biopsy. Of 229 biopsies for impalpable, mammographically detected lesions, 72 (31%) yielded a primary breast carcinoma. Excluding 34 carcinomas that had only calcifications, the length of the mammographically detected tumors averaged 2.0 cm (median, 1.5 cm). Eleven (15%) of the 72 biopsies were in patients who had positive axillary nodes, and none were in patients who had distant metastases at the time of biopsy. The positive predictive values (number of cancers detected divided by the number of biopsies recommended) were not significantly different when comparing biopsies indicated for palpable, clinically detected (34%) vs impalpable, mammographically detected (31%) abnormalities (p = .669). However, the mammographically detected cancers were smaller, more often noninvasive (32% vs 4%), less often associated with axillary metastases (15% vs 33%), and without distant metastases (0% vs 10%). 
The role of fiberoptic endoscopy in the management of corrosive ingestion and modified endoscopic classification of burns. We prospectively evaluated the role of fiberoptic esophagogastroduodenoscopy in the management of 81 patients with corrosive ingestion. A total of 381 endoscopic examinations were performed: 88 within 96 hours following corrosive ingestion, 108 between the third and ninth week, and 185 during the period of follow-up after bougie dilation of esophageal strictures. The customary endoscopic classification of burns (grades 0 to 3) was modified by subdividing grade 2 burns into 2a and 2b, and grade 3 burns into 3a and 3b for prognostic and therapeutic implications. There was no significant correlation between oropharyngeal and upper gastrointestinal tract injury. Early major complications and deaths were confined to patients with grade 3 burns. All patients with grade 0, 1, and 2a burns recovered without sequelae. The majority of patients (71.4%) with grade 2b injury and all survivors with grade 3 injury developed esophageal or gastric cicatrization, or both, which needed endoscopic or surgical treatment. There were no complications related to endoscopy. We conclude that early endoscopy is not only a safe, reliable, and accurate diagnostic tool in such patients, but also is of crucial importance in management and prognosis. 
The effect of corneal hypesthesia on the duration of proparacaine anesthetic eyedrops. The duration of action of proparacaine is known in the normal cornea but not in the hypesthetic cornea. To determine this, we examined both eyes in seven patients with documented unilateral corneal hypesthesia associated with inactive herpetic disease. Cochet-Bonnet measurements were made in both eyes before and at two- to five-minute intervals after the instillation of one drop of 0.5% proparacaine until baseline corneal sensitivity levels were again achieved. Mean recovery time was 34.86 minutes in eyes with normal corneal sensitivity, compared to 45.43 minutes in hypesthetic corneas. In all patients, the recovery time was remarkably longer in the hypesthetic eye than it was in the normal fellow eye. These data demonstrate the need to wait up to one hour after the instillation of proparacaine in eyes suspected of having corneal hypesthesia if corneal sensitivity is to be determined accurately. Additionally, the duration of action of topically instilled anesthetic may be a useful method of discovering subtle differences in corneal sensitivity. 
Absence of synergistic effects of CNS treatments on neuropsychologic test performance among children. Three hypotheses are proposed to account for neurobehavioral impairments following treatment with cranial radiation therapy (CRT) and intrathecal (IT) chemotherapy: CNS treatments exert a synergistic effect (A x B), an additive effect (A + B), or a single-agent effect (A or B). Eighty-five long-term survivors of non-CNS cancers aged 6 to 16 years were classified into groups on the basis of CNS treatments: CRT-IT (n = 25), CRT-No IT (n = 11), No CRT-IT (n = 24), and No CRT-No IT (n = 25). Study I findings did not provide support for synergistic mechanisms; nonorthogonal analysis of variance showed interaction effects (CRT x IT) restricted to tactile-perceptual speed. However, main effects were significant for a single agent (CRT) across a wide range of measures. General intelligence, academic achievement, verbal knowledge and reasoning, and perceptual-motor abilities were found to be significantly lower among CRT-treated groups. Study II findings provided additional support for the role of CRT; Pearson correlations within the CRT-No IT group indicated significant negative associations between CRT dose estimates for cortical regions and perceptual-motor abilities. 
Renal vascular lesions as a marker of poor prognosis in patients with lupus nephritis. Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Nefrite Lupica (GISNEL). The frequency of renal vascular lesions (RVL) and their relevance in the progression of renal damage were evaluated by the Pathology Group of the "Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Nefrite Lupica" (GISNEL). Of 285 patients with lupus nephritis collected from 20 nephrology centers in Italy and classified according to World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, 79 cases (27.7%) with RVL were identified and classified as follows: (1) lupus vasculopathy (n = 27); (2) hemolytic-uremic syndrome/thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (HUS/TTP) malignant hypertension-like lesions (n = 24); (3) vasculitis (n = 8); (4) arterio-arteriosclerosis (n = 20). At the time of renal biopsy, patients with RVL had mean serum creatinine levels significantly higher than patients without RVL (201.8 +/- 195.9 mumol/L [2.2 +/- 2.2 mg/dL] v 108.1 +/- 108.0 mumol/L [1.2 +/- 1.2 mg/dL]; P less than 0.01). Hypertension was more frequent in patients with RVL than in those without (68.4% v 30.5%; P less than 0.01). The probability of kidney survival assessed according to the Kaplan-Meier method at 5 and 10 years was, respectively, 74.3% +/- 5.9% and 58.0% +/- 8.9% in patients with RVL, compared with 89.6% +/- 2.7% and 85.9% +/- 3.7% in patients without RVL. However, the two groups did not differ significantly as regards overall survival, the probability of survival at 5 and 10 years being 86.5% +/- 4.5% and 78.8% +/- 6.6% in patients with RVL and 92.2% +/- 2.2% and 83.3% +/- 4.4% in patients without RVL. 
Perfusion imaging with 99mTc-sestamibi for the assessment of myocardial area at risk and the efficacy of acute treatment in myocardial infarction. There is a clear need to develop better measurement tools for assessment of the effect of acute therapy in myocardial infarction. Such tools must permit accurate measurement of the amount of myocardium that is initially at risk. 99mTc-sestamibi is a new radiopharmaceutical with unique properties that are well suited to the measurement of myocardium at risk without any delay in acute therapy. Tomographic imaging with this agent has been shown to provide accurate quantitative estimates of the myocardium at risk, which varies widely, even for patients with a similar coronary occlusion. For example, there is more than a threefold range in myocardium at risk for patients with a nonproximal occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The determination of the myocardium at risk before intervention and the change in this region after intervention constitute a promising measurement tool for the assessment of the effect of acute therapy. Initial studies with tomographic imaging have shown a significant improvement in a group of patients treated with thrombolysis, although the magnitude of improvement is highly variable in individual patients. Qualitatively similar results have been reported with planar imaging. Although it has a number of technical limitations, sequential imaging with 99mTc-sestamibi seems to have a clear advantage over those end points that have previously been used to assess acute therapy. This new measurement tool should facilitate future clinical trials of different treatments in acute myocardial infarction. 
Soft tissue sarcoma of the pleural cavity. Seventeen cases of soft tissue sarcoma (STS) developing in the pleural cavity were collected from Japanese hospitals, and their clinical and pathologic findings summarized. Eight of the 17 patients had a 15-year to 50-year (mean, 28.8) history of chronic pleural inflammatory disease (pleuritis, pyothorax, and pulmonary tuberculosis) before the onset of the pleural sarcoma. Histologically, malignant fibrous histiocytoma was the most common tumor type (11 cases), followed by angiosarcoma (four). The age at diagnosis of the sarcoma ranged from 15 to 74 years (mean, 58); the male-to-female ratio was 3.3:1. In the eight cases of sarcoma associated with chronic pleural inflammatory disease, male preponderance was more marked (7:1). The commonest presenting symptom was chest pain. A mass could be detected by chest roentgenograms in 13 patients and computed tomographic scans in 15 patients. No patient had distant metastases at first admission. Thirteen patients were treated by surgery, chemotherapy, and/or radiation therapy. Thirteen of the 17 patients died 1 to 87 months (mean, 14.2) after therapy for STS. The actuarial 1-year survival rate was 38.5%. These findings suggest that long-standing pleural inflammation might be an etiologic factor for development of pleural STS. 
Endoscopic assessment of mucosal hemodynamic changes in a canine model of gastric ulcer. In studying the side effects of sclerosants injected into the gastric submucosa in dogs (N = 7), we noted that 3 ml of absolute ethanol induced a large gastric ulceration. We describe the time course of change in the ulcer size, and suggest that such ulceration can be used for the endoscopic assessment of factors important in ulcer genesis and healing. Endoscopic reflectance spectrophotometric measurement of indices of mucosal hemoglobin concentration (IHB) and oxygen saturation (ISO2) were performed in a separate group of dogs (N = 4) with ethanol-induced gastric ulceration. We found a significant difference (p less than 0.05) in IHB and ISO2 immediately before (97 +/- 8 and 37 +/- 3, respectively) and after (138 +/- 7 and 21 +/- 5, respectively) the ethanol injection. At 24 hours after the ethanol injection, the IHB at the lesion margin (141 +/- 14) was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than that at the adjacent mucosa (101 +/- 4), whereas the ISO2 measurements were not significantly different in these two locations, 34 +/- 2 and 31 +/- 2, respectively. We conclude that (1) injection of 3 mol of absolute ethanol into the submucosa of the canine stomach provides an animal model of gastric ulceration in which the ulcer can be examined repeatedly with the aid of the endoscope; (2) in this ulcer model, ischemia with congestion (increases IHB, decreases ISO2) precedes the development of gross mucosal ulcerations; and (3) the margin of the established ulceration in this model exhibits hyperemia (increases IHB, normal ISO2) which mimics that of a healing gastric ulcer. 
Orbital lesions with granulomatous inflammation. Orbital lesions characterized by granulomatous inflammation are a heterogeneous group of diseases of various causes with a common histopathological substrate involving aggregates of epithelioid cells. Forty-one patients (27 females and 14 males) with biopsy-proven granulomatous inflammation were seen at an orbital clinic between 1978 and 1989. The mean age at presentation was 40.2 (extremes 6 and 77) years. Two main clinical presentations were noted: painless, subacute or chronic mass effect, and tender, subacute inflammatory process. Six patients had secondary features that were infiltrative in character. The lesions were primarily located in the anterior superior orbit. In nearly half the patients the granulomatous reaction was confined to the orbit (predominantly ruptured dermoid and localized orbital sarcoid), and the remainder had either regional involvement (Wegener's granulomatosis or fibro-osseous process) or systemic involvement (sarcoidosis). 
Felbamate: a clinical trial for complex partial seizures. We performed a randomized, double-blind, three-period cross-over study of felbamate (FBM, 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate: Carter-Wallace 554) in patients with complex partial seizures. Patients continued carbamazepine (CBZ) throughout the study and were observed in the hospital for the entire trial period. The entry criteria required at least six seizures in a 3-week baseline period (and no more than 1 week with a single seizure) with CBZ alone. Thirty subjects were randomized. Two left the study after randomization, 1 owing to seizure exacerbation, and 1 owing to hyponatremia, which may have been related to CBZ therapy. The daily dosage of 50 mg/kg (maximum 3,000 mg) FBM per day was well tolerated by all 28 patients who completed the study. Only mild adverse experience were observed during the trial. FBM reduced CBZ level (p less than 0.0001; 95% confidence interval -28%, -20%). There was no significant difference in seizure frequency between placebo and FBM periods (one-sided p = 0.172), but when a correction was made for the lower CBZ level noted during FBM periods, the data suggested a strong antiseizure effect of FBM. 
Cytokine-endothelial interactions in inflammation, immunity, and vascular injury. This paper reviews the evidence that cytokines induce a variety of functional and structural alterations in endothelium and that cytokine-endothelial interactions play important roles in the evolution of inflammatory and immune responses. The effect of cytokines, particularly interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor, on leukocyte-endothelial adhesion has led to the discovery of several endothelial adhesion molecules, and the molecular and biological characteristics of these are described. Finally, the review discusses the possible contribution of cytokine-induced activation to vascular injury in such pathological processes as septic shock, the Shwartzman reaction, delayed hypersensitivity, and immune-mediated vasculitis. 
Pontine myelinolysis after correction of hyponatremia during burn resuscitation. Central pontine myelinolysis is a neurologic disease produced by the rapid correction of hyponatremia. This report describes the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis in a patient with burns. The natural history of this paralyzing condition and suggestions for its prevention are discussed. Severely burned and hyponatremic patients are at risk for this disorder because a large amount of sodium ion is typically required for the treatment of burn shock. Awareness of this phenomenon and avoidance of rapid correction of hyponatremia are essential to its prevention. 
Endoscopic palliation of tracheobronchial malignancies. The prognosis for tracheobronchial tumours remains poor. Most patients can be offered only palliation. When the main symptom is breathlessness or refractory haemoptysis from a large airway tumour endoscopic treatment may be very effective. Over the last decade most attention has focused on the neodymium YAG laser. This often produces dramatic effects but has some important limitations. In the last few years better techniques for stenting and intrabronchial radiotherapy (brachytherapy) have also been developed. This article discusses the range of techniques now available and aims to help clinicians decide which patients may benefit from referral to centres providing these techniques. 
Detection of Epstein-Barr virus sequences in primary brain lymphoma without immunodeficiency. We searched for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) sequences by enzymatic DNA amplification in nine primary brain lymphomas from patients without immunodeficiency. We used seven nonlymphoma brain tumors as negative controls, and the Raji cell line as a positive control. We detected EBV DNA, using ethidium bromide-stained-agarose minigel electrophoresis and dot blot hybridization, in the positive control and in only one brain lymphoma tumor; we did not detect EBV DNA in the other tumors. The EBV-positive patient had a second B-cell monoclonal population in the peripheral blood without detectable EBV DNA, suggesting a direct role for EBV in the development of the brain lymphoma. 
Treatment-seeking behavior among those with signs and symptoms of acute myocardial infarction. Significant delays in seeking definitive treatment for the signs and symptoms of acute myocardial infarction increase morbidity and mortality. In most studies, delay times average more than 4 hours. The following variables are associated with increased delay: a medical history of angina, diabetes mellitus, or hypertension; older age; black race; seeking advice from a family member or a physician; symptom onset on a weekday; and attempts at self-treatment. Variables associated with reduced delay times are the following: pain recognized as cardiac in origin, hemodynamic instability, severe chest pain, younger age, and consultation with a coworker. Surprisingly, patients who have already experienced a myocardial infarction are just as likely to delay as patients who have not had this experience. These findings provide direction for developing and testing patient and family interventions, establishing community education programs, and reducing patient delay in response to the signs and symptoms of acute myocardial infarction. 
Cardiac tumors and the nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is a multisystem disease with a wide range of initial symptoms that can be seen at any age. The most characteristic features are vertebral or rib anomalies, intracranial falx calcification, multiple basal cell carcinomas, odontogenic keratocysts of the jaw, and palmar and/or plantar pits. Pediatricians need to be aware that if any one of these major anomalies is seen, this diagnosis should be considered. There now appears to be an established association between cardiac tumors and nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. Primary cardiac tumors have been associated with cerebral tuberous sclerosis and neurofibromatosis, and evaluation of cardiac status is recommended when these genetically determined syndromes are diagnosed. This communication should serve to alert pediatricians to the need for complete cardiac evaluation and genetic counseling when a diagnosis of nevoid basal cell carcinoma is made. 
The surgical pathology of gastrointestinal Hodgkin's disease. The files of the National Cancer Institute were searched for all surgical specimens from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract with the diagnosis of Hodgkin's disease (HD) that were accessioned during the years 1953-1990; six patients with a histologically reconfirmed diagnosis were identified. Of these patients, four presented with GI HD and two had recurrent HD. Primary HD appeared in the stomach (three patients) and the duodenum (one patient); recurrent HD after diagnosis in a conventional nodal site appeared in the stomach (one patient) and the colon (one patient). One of the cases of primary gastric disease was a composite lymphoma consisting of HD and diffuse large cell lymphoma. In view of the rarity of GI tract involvement by HD, a diagnosis of primary GI HD should be viewed with skepticism; support for such a diagnosis may be provided by both classic histopathologic features of HD and immunostaining, but no single feature can be regarded as pathognomonic. 
Dislodgement of a vein graft thrombus by angiographic injection of native coronary artery. A case of retrograde dislodgement of thrombus in a saphenous vein graft during injection of the native right coronary artery is presented. Attention to this previously undescribed complication may allow for timely treatment with emergency surgery or thrombolysis. 
Compartment syndrome of the foot after intraarticular calcaneal fracture. Seventeen patients with a total of 21 intraarticular calcaneal fractures were examined at up to 30 days after trauma for the development of tissue pressure in the central plantar muscle compartment. Twelve patients had a significant increase in tissue pressure with values greater than 30 mmHg because of primary fracture hematoma or interstitial fluid accumulation. This increase in pressure persisted for three to five days after trauma, so that ischemic damage to the short plantar foot muscles had to be suspected. Plantar muscle scarring and claw-toe formation were observed in seven patients with a total of 11 fractures during a mean observation period of 18 months. The plantar aponeurosis, which forms the constricting fascial envelope of the plantar muscles, is the anatomic structure responsible for the compartment syndrome that may develop after calcaneal fracture. Therefore, to avoid functional deficit, plantar compartmental pressures should be regularly measured after calcaneal fracture. Significantly increased plantar tissue pressure greater than 30 mmHg should be relieved by longitudinal incision of the plantar aponeurosis, preferably by a plantar incision as soon as the diagnosis is made. 
IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus in acute and chronic hepatitis C. To assess possible role of testing for IgM-specific antibody in the diagnosis and monitoring of patients with hepatitis C, we tested sera from 14 patients with acute and 97 patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis for IgG and IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus. IgG antibody to hepatitis C virus was detected in 93% of acute cases and 91% of chronic cases. Of the 101 patients with IgG antibody to hepatitis C virus, 57% had IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus. None of the 20 healthy subjects or 40 patients with acute or chronic hepatitis A or hepatitis B had IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus. At the onset of clinical symptoms in acute hepatitis C, IgG antibody to hepatitis C virus was detected in 8 (57%) and IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus in 9 of 14 patients (64%). Eventually, both IgG and IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus became detectable in 13 of 14 patients with acute hepatitis C. Seven patients with antibody to hepatitis C virus resolved the acute infection within 6 mo and all seven cleared IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus, whereas two cleared IgG antibody to hepatitis C virus. Six patients had a chronic outcome of the acute infection and IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus persisted in detectable amounts for more than 6 mo in all (mean = 15.5 mo). Among 88 patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis with IgG antibody to hepatitis C virus, IgM antibody to hepatitis C virus was detected in 45 (51%). 
Emergency treatment of headache. Headache is a frequent presenting complaint in the emergency department. Once a diagnosis is established, and significant organic disease can be ruled out, relief of pain must be addressed. Referral for follow-up care and narcotic habituation is a recurrent problem for the emergency physician. This article discusses the differential diagnosis of headache, evaluation of the emergency room patient, and treatment of the patient with headache. 
Efficacy of desipramine in painful diabetic neuropathy: a placebo-controlled trial. Although amitriptyline relieves pain in many patients with painful diabetic neuropathy, side effects often preclude effective treatment. Desipramine has the least anticholinergic and sedative effects of the first generation tricyclic antidepressants. We compared a 6 week course of desipramine (mean dose, 201 mg/day) to active placebo in 20 patients with painful diabetic neuropathy in a double-blind crossover trial. Pain relief with desipramine was statistically significant in weeks 5 and 6. Eleven patients reported at least moderate relief with desipramine, compared to 2 with placebo. Pain relief tended to be greater in depressed patients, but relief was also observed in patients who did not show an antidepressant effect. We conclude that desipramine relieves pain in many patients with painful diabetic neuropathy, offering an alternative for patients unable to tolerate amitriptyline. Blockade of norepinephrine reuptake, an action shared by desipramine, amitriptyline, and other antidepressants proven effective in neuropathic pain, may mediate this analgesic effect. 
Cystoid macular edema secondary to juxtafoveolar telangiectasis in Coats' disease. A 28-year-old man with unilateral Coats' disease and cystoid macular edema secondary to juxtafoveolar telangiectasis underwent successful juxtafoveolar argon green laser photocoagulation therapy with resolution of the edema and improvement in metamorphopsia and visual acuity. Despite this success, the effect of laser therapy in these patients remains uncertain. It should be considered only after detailed discussion with the patient about the possibility of posttreatment paracentral scotomata and the alternative of a reasonable period of observation for possible spontaneous resolution of the edema. 
Hypertonic saline resuscitation: efficacy in a community-based burn unit. Many have discussed hypertonic saline for resuscitation in burned patients only to discourage its use or to emphasize it only as a research tool and not as standard resuscitation. We reviewed the records of 47 adults with burns over 20% or more of the total body surface area (TBSA) in whom hypertonic saline was used as standard resuscitation fluid in a large community burn unit. The solution consisted of sodium, 300 mEq/L, acetate, 200 mEq/L, and chloride, 100 mEq/L, with an osmolality of 600 mOsm/L. The mean TBSA burned was 37% and the mean patient age was 44.8 years. Eighteen patients (mean age 39.7 years, mean TBSA burned 27%) received hypertonic saline alone. They required an average of 75% of the Parkland calculated volume to achieve a urinary output of 1 mL/kg/hr. The mean hematocrit value over the first 48 hours was 44.2% and the mean serum sodium level was 141.6 mEq/L. Twenty-nine patients (mean age 51.8 years, mean TBSA burned 47.8%) received hypertonic saline plus colloid (albumin or fresh frozen plasma). Colloid was used in older patients with more serious burns. This group required 57% of the Parkland calculated volume to achieve a urinary output of 1 mL/kg/hr. The mean hematocrit value was 45.1% and mean sodium level was 143.8 mEq/L. The mean weight gain for both groups was 7.3% of the admission weight. None of the patients had changes in pH or renal function. All patients survived the resuscitation phase of their injury; the overall death rate was 49%. We conclude that hypertonic saline is a safe, effective means of resuscitation even in a community-based unit. It allows less fluid to be delivered for adequate resuscitation. The usual hyponatremia, hemoconcentration, and significant weight gain associated with administration of isotonic solutions was avoided. Colloid may further improve the resuscitation capabilities of hypertonic saline. 
Immediate versus deferred beta-blockade following thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Results of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) II-B Study In the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) Phase II trial, patients received intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and were randomized to either a conservative or an invasive strategy. Within this study, the effects of immediate versus deferred beta-blocker therapy were also assessed in patients eligible for beta-blocker therapy, a group of 1,434 patients of which 720 were randomized to the immediate intravenous group and 714 to the deferred group. In the immediate intravenous group, within 2 hours of initiating rt-PA metoprolol was given (5 mg intravenously at 2-minute intervals over 6 minutes, for a total intravenous dose of 15 mg, followed by 50 mg orally every 12 hours in the first 24 hours and 100 mg orally every 12 hours thereafter). The patients assigned to the deferred group received metoprolol, 50 mg orally twice on day 6, followed by 100 mg orally twice a day thereafter. The therapy was tolerated well in both groups and the primary end point, resting global ejection fraction at hospital discharge, averaged 50.5% and was virtually identical in the two groups. The regional ventricular function was also similar in the two groups. Overall, there was no difference in mortality between the immediate intravenous and deferred groups, but in the subgroup defined as low risk there were no deaths at 6 weeks among those receiving immediate beta-blocker therapy in contrast to seven deaths among those in whom beta-blocker therapy was deferred. These findings for a secondary end point in a subgroup were not considered sufficient to warrant a recommendation regarding clinical use. There was a lower incidence of reinfarction (2.7% versus 5.1%, p = 0.02) and recurrent chest pain (18.8% versus 24.1%, p less than 0.02) at 6 days in the immediate intravenous group. Thus, in appropriate postinfarction patients, beta-blockers are safe when given early after thrombolytic therapy and are associated with decreased myocardial ischemia and reinfarction in the first week but offer no benefit over late administration in improving ventricular function or reducing mortality. 
Thoracic epidural analgesia in a patient with bilateral phaeochromocytoma undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. A patient suffering from phaeochromocytoma and coronary artery stenoses needed coronary artery bypass grafting before adrenalectomy. High thoracic epidural analgesia (T1-T2) with bupivacaine and sufentanil in combination with general anaesthesia was used. Plasma adrenaline and noradrenaline concentrations decreased during the period before bypass grafting compared to the baseline value and no important haemodynamic changes were seen during this period. Thoracic epidural analgesia failed to suppress the release of catecholamine during the bypass period. After the operation, the plasma catecholamine concentrations returned to the baseline value. Excellent analgesia (visual analogue scale = 1-2) was achieved with a postoperative epidural, but the plasma catecholamine concentration increased considerably. 
The significance of antibody to hepatitis C virus in patients with chronic hepatitis B. We assessed the prevalence and clinical significance of antibodies to hepatitis C virus among a cohort of 148 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Sixteen patients (11%) had anti-hepatitis C virus detectable by enzyme-linked immunoassay. The results from eight of these patients were positive by recombinant immunoblot assay. The results of recombinant immunoblot assay testing were not consistent; therefore the analysis of the patients' data was based on anti-hepatitis C virus enzyme-linked immunoassay results. Patients with chronic hepatitis B with anti-hepatitis C virus were more likely to be cirrhotic (44% vs. 21%) and to have decompensated liver disease (24% vs. 6%). Hepatitis B virus replication appeared to be suppressed in patients with both infections as measured by hepatitis B virus-associated DNA polymerase activity (mean = 2,055 vs. 2,555 cpm). Human immunodeficiency virus infection was more common in the anti-hepatitis C virus positive group (36% vs. 11%). Thus hepatitis C virus appears to suppress hepatitis B virus replication and to cause more severe liver disease in patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. 
Amiodarone inhibits the mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids and produces microvesicular steatosis of the liver in mice. Amiodarone has been shown to produce microvesicular steatosis of the liver in some recipients. We have determined the effects of amiodarone on the mitochondrial oxidation of fatty acids in mice. In vitro, the formation of 14C-acid-soluble beta-oxidation products from [U-14C]palmitic acid by mouse liver mitochondria was decreased by 92% in the presence of 125 microM amiodarone and by 94% in the presence of 125 microM N-desethylamiodarone. Inhibition due to 100 or 150 microM amiodarone persisted in the presence of 5 mM acetoacetate, whereas acetoacetate totally relieved inhibition due to 15 microM rotenone. In vivo, exhalation of [14C]CO2 from [U-14C]palmitic acid was decreased by 31, 40, 58 and 78%, respectively, in mice receiving 19, 25, 50 and 100 mg.kg-1 of amiodarone hydrochloride 1 hr before the administration of [U-14C]palmitic acid. One hour after 100 mg.kg-1, the exhalation of [14C]CO2 from [1-14C]palmitic acid, [1-14C]octanoic acid or [1-14C]butyric acid was decreased by 78, 72 and 53%, respectively. Exhalation of [14C]CO2 from [1-14C]palmitic acid was normal between 6 and 9 hr after administration of 100 mg.kg-1 of amiodarone hydrochloride, but was still inhibited by 71 and 37%, 24 and 48 hr after 600 mg.kg-1. Twenty four hours after the latter dose of amiodarone, hepatic triglycerides were increased by 150%, and there was microvesicular steatosis of the liver. We conclude that amiodarone inhibits the mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids and produces microvesicular steatosis of the liver in mice. 
DNA analysis of atrial myxomas. The atrial myxoma is a primary tumor of the heart which may have an uncertain clinical course. In this study, we performed flow cytometric DNA analysis of 15 paraffin-embedded atrial myxomas and correlated DNA ploidy status and proliferative fraction with clinical findings. Twelve of 15 cases (80 percent) were diploid and the remaining three cases (20 percent) were aneuploid. Two patients with aneuploid histograms were free of tumor at the time follow-up; the third patient experienced local tumor recurrence and metastases. Five patients with diploid myxomas demonstrated an elevated (greater than or equal to 17 percent) proliferative cell cycle fraction; four of these patients experienced embolic phenomenon or tumor recurrence. This pilot study suggests that an atrial myxoma with either aneuploid DNA content or elevated proliferative fraction may be associated with aggressive biologic behavior. 
Assessment of the psychological impact of a breast screening programme. In order to assess the psychological effect of mammographic screening, questionnaires (which included psychometric tests) were sent to 750 women at invitation and, 6 weeks after screening, to 420 women normal after the first mammograph, to 240 women normal after special assessment, and to 68 women normal after open biopsy. Increasing degree of the investigation was associated both with increasing frequency of breast self examination (10% were practising breast self-examination at least once a week before screening compared with 24% for women after special assessment and 35% of women who had had an open biopsy (p less than 0.001)), and with greater confidence that any malignancy in the breast would have been found. Psychometric scores showed no increase of general levels of anxiety or depression in the screened groups. For anxiety, percentages abnormal were 5, 4, 2 and 6 for the four groups, respectively, and for depression the percentages abnormal were 5, 4, 4 and 6, respectively; 10% of screened women were more anxious about having breast cancer as a result of the screening. At least 10% of women proceeding to open biopsy of benign lesions require professional counselling and support. Psychological ill effects were not detected by the psychometric test among women who did not proceed to this final investigation. Behavioural changes did suggest a raised awareness or fear of potential cancer among the screened population. 
Neurologic outcome after electroencephalographically proven neonatal seizures. Infants in whom neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal electroencephalographic (EEG) tracings were retrospectively examined to determine their global neurologic outcome and the specific frequency of epilepsy, development delay, and cerebral palsy. Perinatal and postnatal clinical and EEG variables were also examined for their relevance to the neurologic outcome. Forty infants with EEG documented seizures of diverse etiologies were studied. The 27 survivors were followed up at a mean of 31 months. The outcome was unfavorable in 70%. The rate of epilepsy was 56%, of developmental delay 67%, and of cerebral palsy 63%. The etiology of seizures was an important factor influencing the outcome. Other clinical factors that showed a significant relationship with global or specific aspects of the neurologic outcome included the age at the onset of seizures, birth weight, and neurologic examination results. The EEG parameters that significantly predicted the neurologic outcome were interictal EEG background, increased seizure frequency, and decreased seizure duration. 
Sudden cardiac death: management of high-risk patients Sudden cardiac death remains a leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for more than 350,000 deaths each year, and the survival rate of victims remains low. Most survivors face a significant risk for recurrence. The typical substrate is chronic--abnormal myocardium with fibrosis (often from previous myocardial infarction) and left ventricular dysfunction. Acute triggers for sudden cardiac death are primarily electrical, ischemic, metabolic, neurohormonal, and pharmacologic. In most electrocardiographically documented cases of sudden cardiac death, the trigger-substrate interaction appears to result in ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation. After initial resuscitation, survivors need a thorough cardiovascular evaluation, including definition of coronary anatomy, left ventricular function, and wall-motion abnormalities, as well as an electrophysiologic evaluation. An attempt must be made to determine what each survivor's correctable triggers are. Management should address all reversible triggers, such as acute ischemia and electrolyte abnormalities, and should include modifying or correcting the arrhythmogenic substrate. Empiric antiarrhythmic therapy offers no advantage in such modification. Pharmacologic therapy with antiarrhythmic drugs should be guided by an objective therapeutic endpoint, which is best accomplished through the use of programmed ventricular stimulation and serial electrophysiologic studies. Other therapeutic options include surgical suppression of ventricular tachycardia and implantation of a cardioverter defibrillator. 
Serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: relation to liver fibrosis and arthritis. Levels of serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen were measured in 170 patients with psoriasis (49% with coexistent psoriatic arthritis) who had liver biopsies performed during or before treatment with methotrexate or, in some cases, with retinoids. Psoriasis patients with fibrosis or cirrhosis in their liver biopsy specimens had a significantly higher mean serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen than did patients without fibrosis and without arthritis. Only 4% of patients without cirrhosis or fibrosis and no arthritis had an elevated serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen. In contrast, 38% of patients with psoriatic arthritis had an increased aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in the absence of detectable liver fibrosis. It is concluded that the number of liver biopsies performed on methotrexate-treated psoriasis patients with or without arthritis may be reduced to a minimum as long as serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen is normal. Increased serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in the absence of arthritis is a strong indicator of liver fibrogenesis and suggests the need for liver biopsy to monitor possible methotrexate-induced toxicity. In patients with psoriatic arthritis an increased aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen may be related to the joint disease. Patients with psoriatic arthritis and increased levels of aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen should therefore follow the established guidelines for the use of methotrexate in psoriasis. 
Delayed sleep phase syndrome response to melatonin. The actions of melatonin on the sleep-wake cycle were investigated by means of a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in 8 subjects with a delayed sleep phase syndrome attending a sleep disorders clinic. In randomised order the subjects received placebo or melatonin 5 mg daily for 4 weeks with a 1 week washout period between the treatments. Drug or placebo was given at 2200 h, 5 h before the mean time of sleep onset determined by pretrial sleep logs. In all 8 subjects sleep onset time (mean advance 82 [range 19-124] min; p less than 0.01) and wake time (117 [10-187] min; p less than 0.01) were significantly earlier during melatonin treatment than during placebo. Mean total sleep time was slightly less on melatonin (8 h 12 min) than on placebo (8 h 46 min). Alertness acrophase calculated from the subjects' ratings of alertness made every 2 h while awake was unaltered. Melatonin may act as a phase-setter for sleep-wake cycles in subjects with a delayed sleep phase syndrome. 
Overseas fatalities of United States citizen travelers: an analysis of deaths related to international travel. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Studies of travel-related mortality and morbidity have been limited to nonfatal events. Causes of travel-related mortality may differ significantly from morbidity and thus have different prevention strategies. DESIGN: We examined the overseas fatalities of US citizen travelers for the years 1975 and 1984. The death certificates were abstracted; all deaths under age 60 and a 20% sample of deaths 60 and older were examined. SETTING AND TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: All overseas travel fatalities of US citizens were examined excluding those occurring in Canada. INTERVENTIONS: None. RESULTS: Cardiovascular events (including myocardial infarctions and cerebrovascular accidents) and injuries accounted for 49% and 25% of the overseas deaths of US citizen travelers, respectively. Infectious diseases other than pneumonia accounted for only 1% of the deaths. Eighty percent of injury deaths occurred outside of hospitals. Injury death rates for male travelers were greater than US age-specific death rates. CONCLUSIONS: Greater emphasis on the prevention of fatal events, especially those resulting from injury, must be given by physicians and other individuals and organizations who advise travelers. Further studies are needed to explore the issues of preventable injury deaths, emergency medical services, and overseas travel. 
Twenty-four-hour blood pressure control with isradipine in mild essential hypertension. The hypotensive effect of isradipine was assessed in 26 male patients, aged 40 to 64 years, with hypertension. After withdrawal of previous antihypertensive treatment and a four-week placebo period, patients were randomized into a double-blind active-treatment period of eight weeks to receive either placebo or 1.25 to 2.5 mg isradipine twice daily. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure was measured by Accutracker (Suntech, Oxford, England) after the placebo period and at the end of the active-treatment period. In the isradipine group n = 13), both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and number of blood pressure spikes decreased significantly (P less than .0001), whereas there was a significant increase of these variables in the placebo control group (n = 13). The results of this study indicate that, in these subjects, blood pressure control was achieved throughout the 24-h period by monotherapy with isradipine. 
Damage to tissue defenses by EMLA cream. EMLA is a new topical agent that safely anesthetizes intact skin. The purpose of this study was to determine if this cream could be safely used for anesthetizing wounds. This investigation evaluated the potential toxicity of EMLA cream in wounds by measuring its effect on host defenses and on the biology of wound repair. In contaminated wounds, EMLA cream elicited an exaggerated inflammatory response that damaged host defenses, inviting the development of infection. As a result of these investigations, we do not recommend the use of EMLA cream in wounds. 
Carotid cavernous fistula after minimal facial trauma. Report of a case. The carotid cavernous fistula has historically been associated with extensive facial trauma as a result of direct or indirect forces. Most fistulas of traumatic origin develop as a result of a fracture through the base of the skull, which produces a force causing laceration of the internal carotid artery in the region where it approximates the cavernous sinus. We report a case in which apparently minimal head trauma resulted in the development of a carotid cavernous fistula. The rather innocuous presentation of this complication requires particular attention by the caregiver in assessing the patient sustaining maxillofacial trauma. 
Ethnic differences in mortality from ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease in England and Wales. OBJECTIVE--To examine mortality from ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease in England and Wales by country of birth of the deceased. DESIGN--Standardised mortality ratios were computed by country of birth groups for ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease for 1979-83 and 1970-2 by using the five year age-sex specific rates for England and Wales for 1979-83 as standard. SETTING--England and Wales 1970-2 and 1979-83. RESULTS--In 1979-83 mortality from ischaemic heart disease was highest in men and women born in the Indian subcontinent (standardised mortality ratio 136 and 146 respectively). Young Indian men suffered the greatest excess (313 at ages 20-29). Other groups with raised mortality included Irish, Scottish, and Polish born immigrants. Those born in the Caribbean, the old Commonwealth, west Europe, and the United States had low death rates. In England and Wales mortality from ischaemic heart disease declined by 5% in men and 1% in women between 1970-2 and 1979-83, with greatest percentage declines in immigrants born in the United States, South Africa, the old Commonwealth, the Caribbean, and France. immigrant groups with raised mortality in the earlier period showed little improvement, and mortality from ischaemic heart disease increased among Indians (6% in men and 13% in women). In 1979-83 mortality from cerebrovascular disease was highest in Caribbeans (standardised mortality ratios 176 in men and 210 in women), followed by Africans, Indians, and Irish. Rates were low in west Europeans. Mortality from stroke declined by 28% overall in this period, a rate of decline shared by most groups. Men from the Indian subcontinent showed a decline of only 3%. CONCLUSION--In the 1980s mortality from ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease differed significantly between ethnic groups in England and Wales. In general, ethnic groups that experienced lower mortality from ischaemic heart disease in the 1970s showed the greatest improvement over the following decade. 
Effect of exercise supplementation on dipyridamole thallium-201 image quality To determine the effect of different types of exercise supplementation on dipyridamole thallium image quality, 78 patients were prospectively randomized to one of three protocols: dipyridamole infusion alone, dipyridamole supplemented with isometric handgrip, and dipyridamole with low-level treadmill exercise. Heart-to-lung, heart-to-liver, and heart-to-adjacent infradiaphragmatic activity ratios were generated from anterior images acquired immediately following the test. Additionally, heart-to-total infradiaphragmatic activity was graded semiquantitatively. Results showed a significantly higher ratio of heart to subdiaphragmatic activity in the treadmill group as compared with dipyridamole alone (p less than 0.001) and dipyridamole supplemented with isometric handgrip exercise (p less than 0.001). No significant difference was observed between patients receiving the dipyridamole infusion, and dipyridamole supplemented with isometric handgrip exercise. We conclude that low-level treadmill exercise supplementation of dipyridamole infusion is an effective means of improving image quality. Supplementation with isometric handgrip does not improve image quality over dipyridamole alone. 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in a patient with a cadaveric dural graft. We report a 26-year-old woman with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) who had received cadaveric dural material 33 months before the onset of neurologic symptoms. This is the fourth case in which a dural graft was the putative source of the CJD agent. All four cases had the grafting before changes in the sterilization procedure adopted in 1987 to inactivate the CJD agent. 
Mammographic follow-up of nonpalpable low-suspicion breast abnormalities: one versus two views. A retrospective study involving 498 women with a total of 666 breast lesions was undertaken to determine the relative efficacy of one- and two-view mammography in the follow-up evaluation of "low-suspicion" abnormal mammographic findings. These abnormalities consisted of well-defined masses (47.1%), well-defined punctate microcalcifications (20.9%), and parenchymal asymmetry (32.0%). Confidence in the adequacy of the single-view follow-up was high in 91% of cases. The addition of the second mammographic view changed the one-view interpretation in approximately 1% of all cases. Two cancers were detected during the initial follow-up period. Both cancers were detected with single-view and standard two-view follow-up examinations, with high confidence. In this controlled retrospective study, the single-view follow-up examination was adequate for follow-up of most low-suspicion mammographic abnormalities. Monitoring by physicians, however, would be necessary to prevent an unacceptable number of patient recalls, which could make the one-view follow-up study impractical to use in some practices. 
The "two week syndrome" associated with injection treatment for chronic pain--fact or fiction? Many patients attending the pain clinic for regular injections of local anaesthetic state that the pain returned "two weeks" ago. This study demonstrates that 85% of these patients have a "return of pain" interval which coincides with the proximity of their next clinic appointment. 
Choledochal cyst and biliary atresia in the neonate: imaging findings in five cases. The radiologic findings in five neonates with choledochal cyst associated with extra-hepatic biliary atresia are described. All five patients (age range, 13-72 days) presented with jaundice and acholic stools. In all four patients who underwent sonographic examination, a cystic structure separate from the gallbladder representing the choledochal cyst was shown. The diagnosis of atresia of the distal common bile duct was made preoperatively in all cases by hepatobiliary scintigraphy. Diagnosis was confirmed by surgical findings and was demonstrated by intraoperative cholangiography in four cases. All patients were successfully treated with surgical intervention within 1 month from the time of diagnosis. Early detection of this rare disorder, which may be distinct from choledochal cyst found in children and adults, is important to prevent fatal complications of biliary obstruction. The combined use of sonography and hepatobiliary scintigraphy can correctly identify this subset of patients with persistent neonatal jaundice and provide valuable information for prompt surgical management. 
Regional changes in hemodynamics and cardiac myocyte size in rats with aortocaval fistulas. 1. Developing and established hypertrophy. The effects of a large arteriovenous fistula on left and right ventricular hemodynamics and cardiac myocyte size were examined in adult rats at 1 week and 1 month after surgery. Cardiac output, left ventricular function, and right ventricular function were evaluated before obtaining isolated myocytes for cell size measurements. Average heart weight increased 35% at 1 week and 86% at 1 month in rats with fistulas. In general, myocyte hypertrophy was due to a proportional increase in length and width (length/width ratio remained constant). This change was more evident in the large hearts from rats with 1-month fistulas. At both the 1-week and 1-month intervals, the hypertrophic response of right ventricular myocytes was slightly greater than that observed in the left ventricle or interventricular septum. Left ventricular systolic pressure and dP/dtmax were significantly reduced at 1 week but returned to normal after 1 month of overloading. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was increased approximately fivefold and twofold at 1 week and 1 month, respectively. Right ventricular systolic pressure and dP/dtmax were increased at both intervals examined. We conclude that severe volume overloading from a large aortocaval fistula in the rat is characterized by 1) depressed left ventricular function at 1 week followed by a large compensatory hypertrophy and near normal function at 1 month, 2) right ventricular pressure overload, and 3) changes in myocyte shape that resemble normal physiological growth. 
Initial clinical trial of EXOSURF, a protein-free synthetic surfactant, for the prophylaxis and early treatment of hyaline membrane disease. EXOSURF is a protein-free surfactant composed of 85% dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, 9% hexadecanol, and 6% tyloxapol by weight. A single dose of 5 mL of EXOSURF per kilogram body weight, which gave 67 mg of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine per kilogram body weight, or 5 mL/kg air was given intratracheally in each of two controlled trials: at birth to neonates 700 through 1350 g (the prophylactic trial, n = 74) or at 4 to 24 hours after birth to neonates greater than 650 g who had hyaline membrane disease severe enough to require mechanical ventilation (the rescue trial, n = 104). In both studies, time-averaged inspired oxygen concentrations and mean airway pressures during the 72 hours after entry decreased significantly (P less than .05) in the treated neonates when compared with control neonates. Thirty-six percent of the treated neonates in the rescue study had an incomplete response to treatment or relapsed within 24 hours, suggesting the need for retreatment in some neonates. In the rescue trial, risk-adjusted survival increased significantly in the treated group. There were no significant differences in intracranial hemorrhages, chronic lung disease, or symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus between control and treated infants in either trial. 
"Heartstart Scotland"--initial experience of a national scheme for out of hospital defibrillation. OBJECTIVE--To determine the outcome of out of hospital defibrillation in Scotland during the year after the introduction of automated external defibrillators in October 1988. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis of ambulance service reports and hospital records. SETTING--Scottish Ambulance Service and acute receiving hospitals throughout Scotland. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Delay from cardiac arrest to first defibrillator shock; vital state on arrival at hospital accident and emergency department; survival to hospital discharge. RESULTS--During the study period 268 defibrillators were purchased by public subscription and 96% of the 2000 ambulance crew underwent an eight hour training programme in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and defibrillation. A total of 1111 cardiac arrests were recorded, and defibrillation was indicated and undertaken in 602 (54%) patients, mean age 63 (range 14-92) years. A spontaneous pulse was present on arrival at hospital in 180 (30%) of the defibrillated patients, and 75 (12.5%) were subsequently discharged alive. As expected, the likelihood of survival was inversely related to the delay from the onset of cardiac arrest to the time of the first shock and was greater in the case of witnessed arrest. If ventricular fibrillation occurred after the arrival of the ambulance, survival to discharge was 33%. CONCLUSIONS--An effective scheme for out of hospital defibrillation can be introduced rapidly, and with limited training implications and costs, by the use of automated external defibrillators in ambulances. 
Colonic ischemia complicating immunotherapy with interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha. Colonic ischemia (CI) is a rare complication of high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) immunotherapy. This complication occurred in three of 141 patients (2.1%) with metastatic cancer treated with high-dose IL-2 therapy; CI only developed in patients receiving interferon-alpha (IFN) with IL-2 (three of 21, 14%) compared with none of 120 in those patients receiving IL-2 alone (P equals 0.0009). Severe diarrhea (greater than or equal to 7 bowel movements/day) also was significantly more common in patients receiving IFN with IL-2 (six of 21, 29%) than in those receiving IL-2 alone (three of 120, 2.5%, P equals 0.001) and preceded the clinical diagnosis of CI in all three patients. Three of nine patients with severe diarrhea had CI. Hematochezia occurred in four patients, all of whom received IFN with IL-2; three had CI, and the other patient had nonspecific colitis. Differences in vasopressor use did not explain the increased risk of CI in patients receiving IFN; those receiving IFN with IL-2 required phenylephrine less often than patients receiving IL-2 alone (P equals 0.01). The administration of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells had no significant effect on the incidence of CI, severe diarrhea, peritonitis, or vasopressor use; two of three patients with CI, however, had their ischemic episode within 24 hours after the last of three LAK cell infusions. In conclusion, CI is an unusual complication of high-dose IL-2 and IFN immunotherapy. In patients receiving such combination therapy, severe diarrhea is a risk factor for the subsequent occurrence of CI. 
Carcinoma of the pancreas: a personal experience with 100 cases. One hundred patients with pancreatic cancer were evaluated between March 1981 and December 1989. This study showed that 61 were not candidates for definitive surgery because of nonoperability (28 patients) or nonresectability (33 patients). An additional 25 patients had cancers that were unresectable because of metastases (13 patients) or local spread of disease (12 patients) discovered at laparotomy. Fourteen patients had resectable cancers. Ten were treated by total pancreatectomy, three by distal pancreatectomy and one by pancreatoduodenectomy (Whipple). There were two operative mortalities. The median patient survival time was 20.5 months. Two patients survived 5 years. Five patients are alive at 3, 14, 18, and 47 months. Palliative surgical procedures performed in 18 patients included 10 biliary bypasses, 9 gastrojejunostomies, and 6 T-tube placements. This was associated with an operative mortality rate of 11%. The median survival time was 5 months. Other palliative measures included endoscopic placement of biliary and pancreatic stents (47 patients, 2.7% mortality rate), endoluminal radiation therapy, interstitial radiation therapy and external beam radiation therapy. The median survival time of patients so treated was 4.5 months. 
Successful medical treatment of presumed Candida endocarditis in critically ill infants. Few infants have been reported who survived fungal endocarditis; all have required both surgical and intensive antifungal therapy. We describe three infants, two weighing less than 1000 gm, who survived Candida endocarditis without surgery. Two had Candida parapsilosis, an agent not previously reported as a cause of neonatal endocarditis. All three infants were treated with amphotericin B and 5-flucytosine. Despite administration of 44, 38, and 48 mg/kg amphotericin B, respectively, no nephrotoxicity was noted; 5-flucytosine therapy was stopped in one infant because of thrombocytopenia. One infant died of an unrelated cause 6 months later; there was no evidence of Candida or endocarditis at autopsy. The other two infants are thriving 2 and 3 years after the completion of antifungal therapy; no remaining evidence of endocarditis is present on echocardiography. We conclude that antifungal therapy without surgery is an option for Candida endocarditis in critically ill infants. 
Clinical correlates of abnormal sensitivity to intraesophageal balloon distension. Sixty-five patients with esophageal complaints were studied to determine clinical associations with abnormal sensitivity to intraesophageal balloon distension (esophageal sensory dysfunction). Associations were examined in four categories: motility, esophageal symptoms, recent psychological symptoms, and general clinical features. A positive response to balloon distension (pain with less than or equal to 8 ml volume) was found in 29 (45%) of the subjects. This response was associated with specific findings in each category except recent psychological symptoms. A multiple logistic regression analysis indicated that an increased frequency of multipeaked waves on motility testing, presence of dysphagia, and shorter height of the subject each had an independent association with positive response to balloon distension (P less than or equal to 0.05 for each). Further comparison of subjects with sensory dysfunction, motor dysfunction, or both (sensorimotor dysfunction) indicated that subjects with the combined disorder appeared more symptomatic than those with either finding alone. These observations indicate that: (1) esophageal motor and sensory dysfunction are partially associated, but both contribute to the symptomatic state; (2) dysphagia may be representative of sensory dysfunction in some cases; and (3) subject height should be taken into consideration when interpreting balloon distension results. 
Smoking, the oral contraceptive pill, and Crohn's disease. Both cigarette smoking and the oral contraceptive pill have been implicated as aggravating factors in Crohn's disease. Based upon the recent demonstration of multifocal gastrointestinal infarction in Crohn's disease, a possible pathogenic mechanism for this condition, we propose how smoking and the oral contraceptive pill may potentiate a tendency for focal thrombosis and hence exacerbate the activity of Crohn's disease. 
Long-term therapy of HIV-associated Kaposi's sarcoma with recombinant interferon alpha-2a. Five young male patients with HIV-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) were treated with recombinant interferon alpha 2a (rIFN-alpha-2a) over a period of 2-2.5 years. An IFN dose of 18 x 10(6) IU was given subcutaneously every day during the first 3 months of treatment and then on alternate days. Additional treatment with radiotherapy and laser therapy was given and, in some cases, isolated skin nodules were excised. Within 7 months of initiation of therapy one patient had a complete remission of his tumours, however, tumour progression recurred after the patient discontinued treatment. In another patient the tumour cleared within 9 months of rIFN therapy, and after 52 months he is still free of KS. The condition of a third patient tended to become stabilized during the first 6 months of therapy, but after 60 months there has been a slow progression. The fourth and fifth patients died 25 and 28 months, respectively, after the histological diagnosis of KS and the initiation of treatment. While on therapy with rIFN-alpha-2a, no life-threatening opportunistic infections occurred. The side-effects were mostly well tolerated, and no severe changes in haematological parameters were caused by the therapy. 
Value of dual-energy CT in differentiating focal fatty infiltration of the liver from low-density masses. Focal (irregular, partial) fatty infiltration of the liver may simulate neoplastic or other hypodense masses on CT. On the basis of previous observations of the phenomenon that differences in X-ray attenuation diminish with increasing energy of X-rays used, we performed a preliminary study to determine if dual-energy CT could be used to discriminate between fatty infiltration and hypodense liver masses. Dual-energy CT at 140 and 80 kVp was performed in 14 patients undergoing liver biopsy and in seven control subjects with presumedly normal liver. Attenuation measurements were taken, and the changes in attenuation between 140 and 80 kVp were calculated. The mean changes in attenuation were 3.5 H for normal liver (n = 7), 2.5 H for hypodense liver masses (n = 6), 13 H for fatty liver (n = 5), 0.3 H for fatty liver combined with hemochromatosis or hemosiderosis (n = 3), and 2 H for the spleen (n = 18). The change in attenuation increased as the fat content in the liver increased. Analysis of variance showed a statistically significant difference (p less than .001) between fatty liver and the other groups. A difference greater than 10 H was unique to fatty infiltration. These results suggest that dual-energy CT may help to differentiate focal fatty infiltration of the liver from low-density neoplastic or other lesions, but only if the iron content of the liver is not increased. 
Abnormal expression of histocompatibility and mitochondrial antigens by cardiac tissue from patients with myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy. Autoantibodies against the adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT), the branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex proteins, and myosin have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Cardiac tissue from patients with DCM and, for control purposes, cardiac tissue from patients with other forms of cardiomyopathy and from patients with no history of cardiac disease were stained with heterologous and ANT-, BCKD-, and myosin-specific affinity-purified sera from DCM patients. Data demonstrate that although anti-myosin stains tissues from both patients and normal controls, the ANT- and BCKD-specific heterologous and affinity-purified sera from DCM patients stain only cardiac tissues from DCM patients. Intense staining in patchy areas of cardiac tissue suggests that abnormal increased expression of these putative autoantigens occurs in discrete areas of cardiac myocytes. The reactivity of the antisera was organ specific and only seen in tissues from DCM patients. The organ and disease specificity of these findings suggests that such expression may play an important role in the pathogenesis of human DCM. 
Nifedipine reduces the incidence of myocardial infarction and transient ischemia in patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting. A randomized study was performed on 104 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting to examine whether the infusion of nifedipine (n = 53) reduces the incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia and necrosis in the early postoperative period. Continuous hemodynamic and three-channel Holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours and serial assessment of serum enzymes and 12-lead electrocardiography were performed for 36 hours postoperatively. Nifedipine (minimum dose, 10 micrograms/kg/hr for 24 hours) was applied from the onset of extracorporal circulation. The control group (n = 51) received nitroglycerin (minimum dose, 1 micrograms/kg/min for 24 hours). Using the combined analyses of electrocardiography and Holter recordings, myocardial ischemia was defined as being either a transient ischemic event (TIE), transient coronary spasm (TCS), or myocardial infarction (MI). The two groups did not differ with respect to preoperative New York Heart Association classification, age, history of myocardial infarction, extracorporal circulation and aortic cross-clamp time, number of distal anastomoses, or systemic and pulmonary hemodynamics. The incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia was substantially lower in the nifedipine than in the nitroglycerin group [TIE: three of 53 patients (6%) versus nine of 50 patients (18%), p less than 0.001; MI: two of 53 patients (4%) versus six of 50 patients (12%), p less than 0.001; and TCS: none of 53 patients (0%) versus two of 50 patients (4%), p = NS]. 
Prevention of stroke and brain damage with calcium antagonists in animals. In a rat model of embolic stroke (permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery [MCAO]), various 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists have been shown to attenuate brain damage and the resultant functional impairment when administered after MCAO. Dose-response curves reveal that isradipine is one of the most potent and efficacious representatives of this class of compounds, reducing the infarct size by more than 60%. These results suggest that isradipine, when administered shortly after stroke onset, may have beneficial effects in patients suffering from brain ischemia. When isradipine is used to normalize the high blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats, it will, in addition, also protect the brain from damage engendered by a subsequent stroke. This is not the case if blood pressure is controlled with a calcium antagonist which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, suggesting that the brain protection seen with isradipine is not due to blood pressure normalization. Isradipine, when used as an antihypertensive, appears to have an additional beneficial effect within the brain itself. As high blood pressure is a major risk factor for stroke, such an additional benefit with isradipine would be particularly valuable in antihypertensive therapy. 
The relationship between large airway inflammation and airway metaplasia. To assess the role of acute inflammatory cells in large airways in the pathogenesis of metaplasia, we performed BAL (divided into aliquots) and mucosal biopsies on asbestos workers. They had evidence of asbestos-related lung injury. We found that acute inflammatory cells were significantly increased in the first aliquot. Ex-smokers had a greater percentage of PMN compared with nonsmokers and current smokers. The subjects were subgrouped with respect to biopsy-detected metaplasia. There was no difference between these groups for percentage or total number of PMN in the first aliquot. However, subjects with metaplasia had significant reduction in FEV1/FVC compared with those without. We conclude that there are significant differences in cells between the first and subsequent aliquots. Although inflammatory stimuli may be important in the pathogenesis of metaplasia, PMN present in the first aliquot could not be related to the severity of the metaplastic changes in these workers. 
Risks of leaving the gallbladder in situ after endoscopic sphincterotomy for bile duct stones. There is controversy concerning the subsequent clinical course of patients whose gallbladder is left in situ following successful endoscopic removal of stones from their common bile ducts. A total of 191 patients (median age 76 years) were reviewed between 12 and 100 months (mean 38 months) after endoscopic sphincterotomy. Ten patients (5.2 per cent) had symptoms requiring cholecystectomy which was uneventful, nine in the first year. Cholangitis at presentation or failure to fill the gallbladder by endoscopic retrograde cholangiography were not helpful in identifying these patients. Forty-nine (25.6 per cent) patients died during the review period from non-biliary pathology (usually cardiovascular). Elective cholecystectomy is not required in elderly patients with symptomatic bile duct stones if the common bile duct can be cleared of stones after endoscopic sphincterotomy. 
Carcinoma of the cervix treated with radiation therapy. I. A multi-variate analysis of prognostic variables in the Gynecologic Oncology Group. Between 1977 and 1985, the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) conducted three clinical trials in locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix, clinical Stages I to IVA as classified by the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO). All 626 patients had primary carcinoma of the cervix and underwent operative assessment of the para-aortic (PA) lymph nodes. Patients received standardized external radiation therapy to the pelvis or to the pelvis and PA lymph nodes followed by one or two brachytherapy applications. To date, no statistically significant differences in progression-free interval (PFI) or survival time have been identified between the randomization treatment arms on any of these studies. Basic similarities among these studies led us to pool these data to identify patient characteristics and tumor characteristics associated with an increased risk of treatment failure. Multi-variate analysis showed patient age, performance status (PS), PA lymph node status, tumor size, and pelvic node status to be significantly associated with PFI. When modeling for survival, all these factors and clinical stage and bilateral extension were significant. 
Intrahepatic spontaneous arterioportal fistula: duplex ultrasound diagnosis and angiographic treatment. A 54-yr-old male with portal hypertension received ineffective medical therapy for the diagnosis of portal hepatic cirrhosis. Duplex ultrasound (US) revealed pulsatile arterial flow in the right main portal vein. The correct diagnosis of intrahepatic arterioportal fistula was established and confirmed by angiography. Right hepatic artery embolization with three coils was performed. The patient is alive for 16 months after the embolization, and his complaints have disappeared. There has been full resorption of ascites and absence of varices. Nine previously reported similar cases are reviewed. 
Transvaginal sonographic follow-up on the formation of fetal cephalocele at 13-19 weeks' gestation. An occipital meningocele was detected by transvaginal sonography in a fetus of 13 weeks' gestation. This changed at 14 weeks to a cephalocele, which disappeared at 15-16 weeks and was detected again at 19 weeks. It is possible that sliding backward and forward of the herniated brain tissue caused this sequence of events. 
Respiratory problems in emergence from anesthesia. In conclusion, anesthesia and mechanical ventilation have major effects on respiratory function, both intraoperatively and postoperatively. Recognition that mechanical ventilation represents a major departure from spontaneous ventilation should enable anesthesiologists to compensate for the increases in dead space ventilation and the propensity for alveolar collapse that accompany low volume mechanical ventilation. The use of postoperative regional analgesic techniques to alleviate respiratory compromise constitutes both current clinical practice and an area of active, ongoing investigation. Gone are the days when the anesthesiologist's responsibility stopped at the recovery room door. Today, anesthesiologists with expertise in postoperative pain management, cardiovascular physiology, and intensive ventilatory care are able to provide patients an improved likelihood of avoiding postoperative respiratory complications. 
Red cell deformability is an early indicator of infection. Red blood cells (RBC) have been shown to become less deformable during infection. The RBC deformability index (DI) was measured within 24 hours of admission in 37 patients who had suffered trauma and every 48 to 72 hours thereafter while they were in the surgical intensive care unit to assess whether DI could be used as an early indicator of infection after injury. Infection was defined as a temperature of 101 degrees F or more and a white blood cell count of more than 12,000/cm3 associated with a positive culture. Eighteen patients developed an infection, and 19 patients did not. On day 1, both groups showed a significant decrease in DI, compared to controls (0.33 +/- 0.18 and 0.34 +/- 0.25 for patients with infection and patients with no infection vs 1.52 +/- 0.12 for control volunteers; p less than 0.05). In the group with no infection, the DI improved in 16 of 19 patients after injury; the DI in patients with infection continued to decrease in 17 of 18 patients. The decrease in DI occurred 4 +/- 2 days (range, 2 to 8 days) before the diagnosis of infection. No significant differences were apparent in the absolute white blood cell count between the group with infection and the group with no infection at any time after injury. Differences in maximal temperature were noted on day 3 and beyond; however, 30% of patients with no infection had a temperature of more than 101 degrees F for 7 days. These data show that trauma results in a significant decrease in RBC deformability and that serial changes in DI appeared to predict which patients would develop an infection and which patients would recover uneventfully. RBC deformability may be helpful in early detection of infection in patients who have suffered trauma. 
Sensitivity of the gastric mucosa to acid and duodenal contents in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia. Nonulcer dyspepsia is a common clinical syndrome whose etiology is unknown. The sensitivity of the gastric mucosa to acid and duodenal contents in 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia was studied. The patients had a normal upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and biopsy specimens were obtained for determination of Helicobacter pylori status. Fifteen of the 18 patients were infected with H. pylori. All patients underwent intubation with double-lumen tube and collection of cholecystokinin-stimulated pancretico-biliary secretions. Subsequently, normal saline, 0.1N hydrochloric acid, and autologous duodenal secretions were infused into the stomach in a randomized blinded fashion. A positive response was defined as the production of epigastric pain by acid and/or bile but not by saline. By this definition, only 6 patients (33%) had a positive response and none had reproduction of their usual symptoms. In patients with a negative response, only 4 remained asymptomatic during all infusions. The remaining 8 had symptoms during infusion of saline, 7 of whom also had symptoms during infusion of acid and/or duodenal secretions. Two of these patients had reproduction of their usual symptoms. In conclusion, the gastric mucosa in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia is not abnormally sensitive to acid or duodenal contents. 
Fever response in elderly nursing home residents: are the older truly colder? OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that many nursing home residents with an apparently blunted fever response (maximum temperature less than 101 degrees F) may actually have a significant change in temperature (delta T greater than or equal to 2.4 degrees F) which is not recognized because of a low baseline temperature. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review for cases of infection that met specific criteria and for chart-recorded baseline and infection temperatures. Chart-recorded baseline temperatures were prospectively compared with re-measurement of morning temperatures. SETTING: Nursing Home Care Unit of the VAMC West Los Angeles. PATIENTS: Random review of 40 residents' charts resulted in the detection of 69 infections among 26 residents over a 20-month period. Fifty randomly selected residents prospectively underwent comparison of chart-determined and actual re-measurement of baseline temperatures. RESULTS: In 50 randomly selected residents, the mean oral baseline temperature of 97.4 +/- 0.2 (degrees F +/- SEM) closely approximated the mean nurse-recorded measures in the charts (97.6 +/- 0.1). Chart review detected 69 infections among 26 residents, with 53 episodes having a temperature recorded during the infection. The mean maximum temperature (Tmax) during an infection was 101.3 +/- 0.3 (degrees F +/- SEM) but 47% (25/53) of the episodes had a "blunted" fever response (Tmax less than 101 degrees F). Of the 25 "blunted" fevers (Tmax less than 101 degrees F), about one-fourth demonstrated an adequate change in temperature from baseline (delta T greater than or equal to 2.4 degrees F) but failed to reach 101 degrees F because of a low baseline. Most infections (89%) had a Tmax greater than 99 degrees F. CONCLUSION: Establishing a nursing home patient's basal temperature and monitoring for changes in temperature (delta T greater than 2.4 degrees F) and/or lowering the threshold for recognition of fevers (to 99 degrees or 100 degrees F) in nursing home residents with a change in function should assist in early recognition of infections. 
Primary tumors of the facial (extracranial) nerve. Nearly 25% of all primary neurogenous tumors arise from peripheral nerves in the head and neck. The extracranial parts of the facial nerve, however, rank low as potential sites. Their tumors nonetheless pose diagnostic and management problems. In the intraparotid location the neurogenous tumors most often present as mass lesions, accompanied, in one third of patients, by various degrees of facial weakness. With the exception of a peculiar predilection of childhood plexiform neurofibromas to afflict the facial nerve, the majority of the tumors are neurilemomas. Recurrences are unusual after surgical removal of either neurilemomas or neurofibromas. The rare facial nerve sarcoma is a high-grade malignancy. 
Mucinous pancreatic tumors: ERCP findings Mucin-producing tumors of the pancreas are rare and difficult to diagnose neoplasms. To further characterize the nature of these lesions, four such cases are described here in which the diagnosis was suspected at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography by the presence of ampullary or intraductal mucus. In one patient, pancreatoscopy directly visualized the tumor. Ultrasound and computed tomography failed to suggest the presence of a neoplasm in the majority of these cases, but endoscopic ultrasound was performed in one and correctly identified the multi-cystic tumor. A high incidence of acute pancreatitis was seen in these cases and was felt to be secondary to intermittent ductal obstruction by mucus. The characteristic appearance of intra-ductal mucus provides an important clue to the presence of this type of pancreatic neoplasia. 
Antibody to hepatitis C virus and liver disease in volunteer blood donors. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the specificity of antibodies to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) and their relation to liver disease in blood donors. DESIGN: Case series of consecutive blood donors found positive for anti-HCV by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Patients were evaluated for antibody specificity using a recombinant immunoblotting assay (RIBA) and were evaluated for biochemical evidence of liver disease. Patients showing increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels had a liver biopsy. SETTING: University hospital. PARTICIPANTS: Fifty consecutive blood donors found to be anti-HCV positive on both an initial and repeat ELISA. Inclusion criteria were as follows: an absence of hepatitis B surface antigens and non-organ-specific autoantibodies; a daily alcohol intake of less than 50 g; no history of recent hepatotoxic drug use; and normal serum levels of alpha 1 antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin, and copper. MAIN RESULTS: Anti-HCV positivity was confirmed by RIBA in only 13 of 50 donors (26%) who had positive ELISA results. These 13 donors had an elevated ALT level and histologic evidence of chronic hepatitis, which was active in 8 patients (62%) and had already produced cirrhosis in 2 patients (15%). In contrast, the 17 donors with an intermediate RIBA pattern had only mild and often nonspecific histologic liver abnormalities. The 20 patients with a negative RIBA result had normal ALT levels. CONCLUSION: In blood donors, the anti-HCV RIBA is not only more specific than the anti-HCV ELISA, but is also useful in identifying patients who have an underlying chronic liver disease. 
Carcinoma of the uterus: use of gadopentetate dimeglumine in MR imaging. This prospective study assessed the role of gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in the detection and staging of carcinomas of the endometrium and cervix. Surgical-pathologic findings were used as the standard of reference. In the evaluation of endometrial carcinoma, contrast-enhanced imaging improved tumor detection and differentiation between viable tumor and retained debris. Use of contrast material significantly improved the staging accuracy. The ability to assess the depth of myometrial invasion was also improved. In the evaluation of cervical carcinoma, assessment of tumor location and size did not improve following contrast enhancement. Use of gadopentetate dimeglumine resulted in overestimation of stromal, parametrial, vaginal, and/or bladder wall invasion in eight patients. However, evaluation of intratumoral architecture and large lesions was easier with contrast-enhanced imaging. When only stage II and higher disease was analyzed, use of contrast material improved the evaluation of disease extent. The authors conclude that gadolinium enhancement adds to the accuracy of evaluation of endometrial carcinoma but is useful in only advanced cases of cervical carcinoma. 
Osteogenic sarcoma arising adjacent to a long-standing ameloblastoma. A case report. Ameloblastoma is an uncommon odontogenic tumor usually occurring in the mandible. Rarely do other primary tumors occur with or arise from ameloblastoma. We describe a patient with simultaneous osteogenic sarcoma of the maxilla and recurrent ameloblastoma. 
Postradiation lower motor neuron syndrome presenting as monomelic amyotrophy. Monomelic amyotrophy developed 16 months, nine and 12 years after irradiation of the lumbosacral spinal cord for seminoma in one patient and for Hodgkin's disease in two others. In two patients, involvement was clinically limited to one leg, with a subacute course followed by plateau in the first case and with progressive worsening in the second one. In the third patient, the course was progressive with involvement of the other lower limb occurring five years later. From clinical and electrophysiological data, it seems probable that the disease process was a result of a selective injury to the lower motor neuron in the lower spinal cord. 
Right-to-left shunt across a patent foramen ovale caused by cardiac tamponade: diagnosis by transesophageal echocardiography. Cardiac tamponade can manifest as profound hypoxemia from intracardiac shunting across a patent foramen ovale. As a consequence, pulmonary embolus can be erroneously diagnosed. As demonstrated in the case described herein, transesophageal echocardiography can be useful in determining the correct diagnosis, especially if transthoracic echocardiography is technically limited. In our patient, the findings on transesophageal echocardiography also helped determine the appropriate treatment. The relative inaccessibility of the pericardial effusion to needle drainage prompted open surgical drainage. 
EMG activity in pericranial muscles during postural variation and mental activity in healthy volunteers and patients with chronic tension type headache. EMG activity was recorded over frontalis, temporalis and trapezius muscles in a supine position, a standing position and during a mental task in 32 female patients suffering from chronic tension-type headache and in 20 healthy volunteers. Measurements in patients were made before and after biofeedback therapy. All EMG levels were on average significantly higher in patients than in controls. 62.5% of patients had at least one abnormal EMG level, but only 34% were beyond the normal range, if 1 muscle and 1 recording condition was considered. EMG levels were not correlated with headache severity, anxiety or response to biofeedback treatment. It is therefore suggested that pericranial EMG activity is not pathogenetic in chronic tension type headache, but merely one of several pathophysiologic changes, that are produced by a central dysfunction. 
Anterior uveitis and hypopyon. We undertook a study to determine the incidence of hypopyon, as well as the most common anterior uveitis entities with which hypopyon is associated. A total of 216 patients with anterior uveitis were studied. The uveitis was acute in 155. Of the 155 patients, 11 (7.1%) had hypopyon. Nine of the 11 patients with hypopyon were positive for HLA B27. Of these nine, two had Reiter's syndrome and one had ankylosing spondylitis; the other six had no confirmed systemic disease. Of the two patients with hypopyon who were HLA B27-negative, one had mixed connective-tissue vascular disease, and one had idiopathic anterior uveitis. Of the 155 patients with acute anterior uveitis, 62 were HLA B27-positive. Thus, the incidence of hypopyon uveitis among HLA B27-positive patients was 14.5% (nine of 62 patients), whereas the incidence among HLA B27-negative patients was only 2.2% (two of 93 patients). These results suggest that HLA B27-related anterior uveitis is the most common cause of hypopyon uveitis, and that most patients with anterior uveitis associated with hypopyon will test positive for HLA B27. Although these results reflect a referral population, they should be of benefit in the treatment of patients with anterior uveitis. 
Concurrent eosinophilic fasciitis and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Eosinophilic fasciitis as a paraneoplastic syndrome of T-cell malignant neoplasms? Eosinophilic fasciitis has been reported to precede hematologic malignant neoplasms such as myelomonocytic leukemia, lymphocytic leukemia, and Hodgkin's lymphoma. In this case study, eosinophilic fasciitis occurred concurrently with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides). The clinical diagnosis of eosinophilic fasciitis was based on painful sclerodermatous lesions on the extremities and trunk without acrosclerosis. There was histologic confirmation with edema and lymphocytic inflammation in the superficial muscular fascia and dermis. Deposition of immune reactants was found in the fascia and dermis. In addition, peripheral eosinophilia and circulating immune complexes were detected. The diagnosis of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides) was based on extensive erythematous cutaneous plaques, dermal and epidermal lymphocytic atypia, loss of pan-T-cell immunologic markers, and a cutaneous lesional T-cell receptor beta-chain rearrangement by Southern blot analysis. Eosinophilic fasciitis may occur as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with hematologic malignant neoplasms, including mycosis fungoides. Cytokines or lymphokines released by activated immunocytes, either malignant leukocytes or normal leukocytes reacting to malignant cells, may be responsible for the eosinophilia and sclerosis seen in these associated hematologic malignant neoplasms. 
Adhesion formation after ovarian electrocauterization on patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome. The rate of adhesion formation after ovarian electrocauterization has been described in two selective and unselective groups of patients with PCOS. The rate of this complication in the selective group was 0 from 16 ovaries and in the unselective group (5/25). However, the rate of major adnexal adhesion in the unselective group was 1 from 25 ovaries. 
Asperger's syndrome: who is being abused? Six case histories of children referred and admitted to a psychiatric inpatient unit at a tertiary referral centre because of concerns about poor functioning and possible emotional abuse are presented. On initial assessment the children appeared to be well functioning and the impression was confirmed that their emotional needs were not being met by their parents. After detailed inpatient appraisal the diagnosis of Asperger's syndrome was made in all six cases, exemplified mainly by a formal concrete way of thinking and an inability to identify and understand human emotions and relationships. The impact of the diagnosis on the parents and their consequent relationships with their child and their willingness to work with professionals is discussed. 
Large molecular form of serum HBeAg in chronic hepatitis B virus infection: relation to liver cell damage. We have separated circulating HBeAg into small and large molecular forms by agarose gel electrophoresis and analyzed the relationship between the two forms and other clinical features of chronic hepatitis B, especially in regard to liver cell damage. The large HBeAg accounted for 7.3% +/- 3.4% of serum HBeAg in 9 subjects with normal liver histological findings or nonspecific reactive hepatitis, 38.0% +/- 27.8% in 32 patients with chronic persistent hepatitis and 65.6% +/- 23.3% in 21 patients with chronic active hepatitis (p less than 0.01). A positive correlation was seen between the height of aminotransferase elevations and the percentage of large HBeAg. Three patients who progressed from histologically normal liver or nonspecific reactive hepatitis to chronic active hepatitis had dramatic increases in the percentage of large HBeAg. The finding that the presence of large HBeAg in serum correlated with the severity of hepatitis suggests that HBeAg may play an important role in determining the degree of liver injury in chronic hepatitis B. 
Ischaemic myelopathy secondary to disseminated intravascular coagulation in AIDS. A 39-year-old patient with AIDS presented with a rapidly progressive myelopathy with a partial Brown-Sequard syndrome. He died, 9 weeks after onset of the first neurological signs, from diffuse encephalopathy. Neuropathological examination revealed multiple, usually small, frequently haemorrhagic, infarcts or various ages and numerous fibrin thrombi in medium and small penetrating vessels and capillaries of the brain and spinal cord, characteristic of disseminated intravascular coagulation. There were no inflammatory changes. Immunohistochemical studies for human immunodeficiency virus, cytomegalovirus, varicella zoster virus, herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 were negative. Ischaemic spinal cord lesions due to disseminated intravascular coagulation may represent an unusual cause of focal, non-inflammatory, non-tumoral, myelopathic syndrome in AIDS. 
Infection by mink cell focus-forming viruses confers interleukin 2 (IL-2) independence to an IL-2-dependent rat T-cell lymphoma line. The development of T-cell lymphomas in rodents infected with type C retroviruses has been linked to the generation of a class of envelope (env) recombinant viruses called mink cell focus-forming viruses (MCF viruses) in the preleukemic thymus. To determine whether infection by MCF viruses altered the growth phenotype of retrovirus-induced T-cell lymphomas, a Moloney murine leukemia virus-induced interleukin-2 (IL-2)-dependent rat T-cell lymphoma line (4437A) was infected with MCF-247, modified MCF-V33 (mMCF-V33), or NZB-xenotropic (NZB-X) virus. The effects of virus infection on the IL-2 dependence of these cells was examined by cultivating them in the absence of IL-2. After IL-2 withdrawal, the uninfected and NZB-X-infected cells went through a crisis period characterized by massive death. All the independently maintained cultures of MCF- and mMCF-V33-infected cells, on the other hand, became IL-2 independent without a crisis. All the polytropic virus-infected IL-2-independent cultures contained a population of cells that was polyclonal with regard to polytropic provirus integration. Over this polyclonal background each culture produced multiple clones of cells that were selected rapidly after IL-2 withdrawal. Furthermore, the resulting MCF- or mMCF-V33-infected IL-2-independent cells retained the expression of IL-2 receptor. These data show that MCF and mMCF-V33 viruses may alter the growth phenotype of a T-cell lymphoma line and suggest that their effect on cell growth may be due to the direct interaction of the MCF envelope glycoprotein with cellular components, perhaps the IL-2 receptor. 
Pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis. The presentation of a patient with multiple pulmonary nodules with or without cavitation and often with signs of a multisystemic vasculitis should suggest one of the pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis syndromes. The five conditions traditionally considered together in the category of pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis differ widely in their cause and pathogenesis and are more appropriately considered as variants or relatives of other processes. The radiologic features of this group of diseases, however, are similar, and it is useful to still consider them together. Table 1 summarizes the radiologic features of these conditions. 
Acanthoma fissuratum. Acanthoma fissuratum secondary to the use of spectacles is a rare clinical finding associated with an ill-fitting frame. An interesting case is presented to highlight such a problem. Surgical excision of such lesions is recommended with advice to the patient regarding the suitable fitting of spectacles. 
Electrophysiologic and anatomic characteristics of ventricular tachycardia induced at the right ventricular outflow tract but not at the apex. The site of ventricular stimulation is an important variable in the initiation of ventricular tachycardia (VT) by programmed ventricular stimulation. Among 169 patients studied consecutively, 17 (10%) had ventricular tachycardia induced by programmed electrical stimulation from the right ventricular outflow tract but not from the apex. Fourteen of these 17 patients had had prior myocardial infarction (12 had inferior, and two had both inferior and anterior myocardial infarction), two had a dilated cardiomyopathy, and one had a localized cardiomyopathy. Fourteen patients had echocardiograms suitable for analysis. Of these, 12 had posterior/inferior ventricular wall motion abnormalities located at the base of the heart. The ventricular effective refractory periods from the right ventricular outflow tract and right ventricular apex were 237 +/- 4 and 244 +/- 5 msec, respectively (p less than 0.05, mean +/- SEM). Induced VT had a cycle length of 229 +/- 4 msec and had the morphology of right bundle branch block in 12 patients, of left bundle branch block in three patients, and had both morphologies in two patients. In 14 patients the axis was superior. VT was initiated with two extrastimuli in 15 patients and with burst right ventricular pacing in two patients. Similar pacing techniques with identical pacing intervals did not induce VT at the right ventricular apex in 14 of these 17 patients. Further, among the 15 patients whose VT was induced at the right ventricular outflow tract with two extrastimuli, neither burst pacing (n = 13) nor two extrastimuli introduced at faster paced rates (n = 12) induced VT at the right ventricular apex. 
Effect of bile diversion and sphincterotomy on gallbladder muscle contractility and gallstone formation. Feeding prairie dogs a diet rich in cholesterol induces gallstone formation that is preceded by a sustained decrease in gallbladder smooth muscle contractility. Sphincterotomy is known to prevent gallstone formation in cholesterol-fed prairie dogs. Experiments were designed to determine whether the effect of sphincterotomy is a consequence of hepatic bile diversion, and whether bile diversion prevents the altered contractility. Following sham operation, surgical biliary enteric bypass, or sphincterotomy, prairie dogs were fed a high-cholesterol or a regular diet. Gallbladder muscle contractility and the presence of crystals and stones were determined. In sham-operated animals, the cholesterol diet induced a decrease in gallbladder muscle contractility and caused the formation of cholesterol gallstones. In animals with bile diversion and sphincterotomy, the effects of cholesterol feeding were reduced or prevented. Thus, these procedures may prevent stone formation by preventing a reduction in gallbladder contractility. Contractility was depressed in animals with bile diversion fed a regular diet, compared with animals with a sham operation fed a regular diet. The mechanism for this depression may differ from that induced by the cholesterol diet. Diversion, and perhaps sphincterotomy, impairs gallbladder filling. Thus, gallbladder muscle is not stretched and does not contract against a load. This could result in a "disuse atrophy." If the results from our study apply to humans, sphincterotomy may reduce stone formation by preventing the effects of lithogenic bile on gallbladder muscle contractility and by enhancing the ability of the muscle to empty the lithogenic bile. 
Antibody to hepatitis C is common among patients with alcoholic liver disease with and without risk factors. Thirty-seven patients with clinically suspected alcoholic liver disease were retrospectively studied for the prevalence of antibody to hepatitis C virus (HCV) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunoblot assay. Twenty-four had biopsy-proven cirrhosis. Nineteen had identifiable risk factors for non-A, non-B viral hepatitis, and 18 did not. Five of 19 high-risk (26%) and 6 of 18 low-risk (33%) patients had positive antibody, compared with two of 179 healthy blood donors (p less than 0.01 for either group of alcoholics compared with blood donors). Nine of 11 ELISA-positive patients were also either positive or indeterminable by immunoblot testing. Histologic scores for parameters commonly associated with chronic viral hepatitis were numerically worse among anti-HCV-positive patients, but none reached statistical significance. Clinically, seven of 11 (64%) of anti-HCV-positive patients versus 14 of 26 (54%) anti-HCV-negative patients were Child's class C. Among the 21 Child's class C patients, seven (33%) were anti-HCV-positive versus four of 16 (25%) of Child's class A/B patients. A weak correlation between IgG and ELISA optical density was observed (r = 0.52). We conclude that antibody to hepatitis C by ELISA and immunoblot is common among alcoholics with liver disease even in the absence of known or suspected risk factors for viral hepatitis. Although hepatitis C-positive patients tended to have more severe histologic disease, neither histologic parameters nor clinical findings were adequate to predict antibody seropositivity. 
Site-directed mutagenesis of the region around Cys-241 of complement component C2. Evidence for a C4b binding site. We probed the functional significance of the region around Cys-241 in human C2 by testing the hemolytic activity of a series of mutant rC2. Mutant C2 cDNA were constructed by oligonucleotide-directed site-specific mutagenesis and expressed transiently in COS cells. Wild-type rC2 had threefold higher specific hemolytic activity than native serum C2. Substitution of Gly, Ala, or Ser for Cys-241 resulted in a slightly, but significantly, increased activity. In addition, I2 had no effect on the activity of these mutant C2. Substitution of Lys for Gln-243 increased the hemolytic activity by more than two-fold. Increased activity in all cases was due to slower decay rates of the C3 convertase. Finally, substitution of Leu or Ala for Asp-240 or Ser-244, respectively, resulted in more than 100-fold decrease of hemolytic activity. The results suggest that residues 240 to 244 of human C2 represent an important structural determinant of the C4b binding site of C2a. They also confirm that Cys-241 is the residue responsible for the increased activity of C2 reacted with I2. 
Psychiatric disorders in 36 families with Wolfram syndrome. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that heterozygous carriers of the gene for the Wolfram syndrome, who constitute about 1% of the population, are predisposed to significant psychiatric illness. The Wolfram syndrome is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative syndrome in which 25% of the individuals who are homozygous for the condition have severe psychiatric symptoms that lead to suicide attempts or psychiatric hospitalizations. METHOD: The authors collected questionnaires, death certificates, and hospital records for blood relatives and their spouses in 36 families of individuals with the Wolfram syndrome and compared the proportion of blood relatives who had had psychiatric hospitalizations, had committed suicide, or had self-reported mental illness to the proportion of spouses with the same manifestations. RESULTS: The proportion of blood relatives who had had psychiatric hospitalizations, had committed suicide, or had self-reported mental illness significantly exceeded the proportion of spouses with the same manifestations. CONCLUSIONS: Since heterozygous carriers of the gene for the Wolfram syndrome are 50-fold more common among the blood relatives than among the spouses, the larger proportion among blood relatives is evidence that heterozygous carriers of the gene for the Wolfram syndrome are predisposed to significant psychiatric illness. 
Value of sonography in monitoring the therapeutic response of mediastinal lymphoma: comparison with chest radiography and CT. The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the diagnostic value of mediastinal sonography, compared with that of chest radiographs and CT, in the follow-up of patients with mediastinal lymphomas and in the prediction of clinical outcome. The sonograms, chest radiographs, and CT scans of 40 consecutive patients with Hodgkin (n = 29) and non-Hodgkin (n = 11) lymphoma obtained before and after completion of therapy were analyzed blindly and independently by three radiologists and compared with clinical outcome. Nine patients were treated with radiotherapy, 12 with chemotherapy, and 19 with combined therapy. Therapeutic response was assessed from all available clinical and biochemical findings as well as from the combined results of all imaging studies performed on further follow-up. The sonograms showed obvious changes in the size and echogenicity of the mediastinal lymphomas that corresponded closely with the response to therapy. Sonography showed complete regression of the lymphomas in 30 patients who had complete remission. In five patients with incomplete remission, sonographic diagnoses were correct. All lymph nodes, irrespective of size, detected with sonography after a phase of complete remission indicated recurrence (five patients). Sonographic findings corresponded with those of CT in 25 (81%) of 31 cases. Clinical outcome suggested that the sonographic findings were more reliable in the five cases in which CT and sonographic findings conflicted. Chest radiographs were inadequate for monitoring the response of mediastinal lymphomas to therapy; in 17 (43%) of 40 cases, a false impression was obtained of the extent and therapeutic response of mediastinal lymphomas. The results of this study indicate that sonography is clearly superior to chest radiographs and comparable to CT for monitoring patients with mediastinal lymphomas. 
Pyruvate kinase activity and isozyme composition in normal fibrous tissue and fibroblastic proliferations. Pyruvate kinase (PK) was studied in 57 fibroblastic and fibrohistiocytic proliferations and normal fibrous tissue (n = 10). The specific activity was significantly increased in malignant tumors (1.67 +/- 0.25) compared with normal tissue (0.26 +/- 0.04; P less than 0.001) and benign proliferations (0.52 +/- 0.05; P less than 0.005). Although an overlap exists between aggressive fibromatosis and the benign group, high values of PK activity are indicative of Grade 2 and 3 malignancy. Significant shifts in isozyme pattern, favoring the expression of K-type subunits were found in tumors with a metastasizing potential and aggressive fibromatosis. These changes in the isozyme pattern of PK in aggressive fibromatosis may act as another argument to place them in the category of malignant fibroblastic tumors. 
Evaluation of mixed chimerism by in vitro amplification of dinucleotide repeat sequences using the polymerase chain reaction. The influence of mixed hematopoietic chimerism (MC) after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation remains unknown. Increasingly sensitive detection methods have shown that MC occurs frequently. We report a highly sensitive novel method to assess MC based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Simple dinucleotide repeat sequences called microsatellites have been found to vary in their repeat number between individuals. We use this variation to type donor-recipient pairs following allogeneic BMT. A panel of seven microsatellites was used to distinguish between donor and recipient cells of 32 transplants. Informative microsatellites were subsequently used to assess MC after BMT in this group of patients. Seventeen of the 32 transplants involved a donor of opposite sex; hence, cytogenetics and Y chromosome-specific PCR were also used as an index of chimerism in these patients. MC was detected in bone marrow aspirates and peripheral blood in 18 of 32 patients (56%) by PCR. In several cases, only stored slide material was available for analysis but PCR of microsatellites or Y chromosomal material could be used successfully to assess the origin of cells in this archival material. Cytogenetic analysis was possible in 17 patients and MC was detected in three patients. Twelve patients received T-cell-depleted marrow and showed a high incidence of MC as revealed by PCR (greater than 80%). Twenty patients received unmanipulated marrow, and while the incidence of MC was lower (44%), this was a high percentage when compared with other studies. Once MC was detected, the percentages of recipient cells tended to increase. However, in patients exhibiting MC who subsequently relapsed, this increase was relatively sudden. The overall level of recipient cells in the group of MC patients who subsequently relapsed was higher than in those who exhibited stable MC. Thus, while the occurrence of MC was not indicative of a poor prognosis per se, sudden increases in the proportions of recipient cells may be a prelude to graft rejection or relapse. 
Let sleeping dogs lie: role of the omentum in the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis procedure. A surgical aphorism has long held that the omentum is the "watchdog of the abdomen." However, detractors believe that leaving the omentum behind after colectomy precipitates later small bowel obstruction. A retrospective comparison was made between a group of 406 patients (Group I) having omentectomy with proctocolectomy and ileoanal anastomosis and a group of 239 patients (Group II) having a similar procedure without omentectomy. Follow-up in this series of 645 patients was 4.3 +/- 2.1 years (mean +/- SEM). No difference was present in the rate of partial small bowel obstruction or complete small bowel obstruction between Group I patients (32 percent partial, 12 percent complete) and Group II patients (29 percent partial, 12 percent complete; P greater than 0.1). However, a better outcome with regard to postoperative sepsis and sepsis requiring operation was apparent in Group II patients retaining the omentum (4 percent and 3 percent, respectively) than in Group I patients (10 percent and 8 percent, respectively), in whom the omentum was removed (P less than 0.01). As this experience would support, we urge surgeons to "let sleeping dogs lie" and, when possible, retain the omentum when performing colectomy or proctocolectomy. 
Hepatosplenic candidiasis: successful treatment with fluconazole. PURPOSE: To determine if fluconazole is effective treatment for hepatosplenic candidiasis that has not resolved with amphotericin B and flucytosine treatment. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six patients (ages 3 to 44) with acute leukemia and hepatosplenic candidiasis who did not respond to prior antifungal therapy were treated with fluconazole. RESULTS: All six patients had fever and three had nausea and vomiting; computed tomographic (CT) scan showed lucencies in the liver in six, lucencies in the spleen in five, and lucencies in the kidneys in three. Prior therapy with 1.6 to 4 g of amphotericin B in the five adults and 526 mg of amphotericin B in the child (with the addition of flucytosine in four) failed to improve clinical symptoms or lucencies in the liver, spleen, and kidneys seen on CT scan. Fluconazole was given at a dose of 200 to 400 mg daily (70 to 100 mg in the child) for 2 to 14 months. All patients had resolution of fever and other symptoms in 2 to 8 weeks. Improvement of the lesions noted on CT scan was seen in 4 to 8 weeks in all patients. Total resolution of lesions noted on CT scan occurred by 4 weeks in two patients, but took 4 to 5 months for three patients and 13 months for one patient. Three patients had relapse of their acute leukemia and two died, presumably cured of their candidiasis. Two patients underwent successful bone marrow transplantation without relapse of their candidiasis. CONCLUSION: Fluconazole appears to be useful in the treatment of hepatosplenic candidiasis that has not resolved with amphotericin B and flucytosine therapy. 
Moderate protection of renal function and reduction of fibrosis by colchicine in a model of anti-GBM disease in the rabbit. A rabbit model of renal glomerulosclerosis induced by anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody was used to determine whether colchicine would protect renal function and reduce fibrosis. Initial studies established the time course of renal function changes and fibrosis. Colchicine at a dose of 0.02 to 0.04 mg/kg per day injected ip was begun at day 4 when injury had been initiated, and the experiment was ended at day 21 when fibrotic changes were established. Colchicine significantly reduced the rise in serum creatinine (serum creatinine = 2.7 +/- 0.3 mg% in vehicle-treated animals versus 1.8 +/- 0.1 mg% in colchicine-treated animals) and interstitial fibrosis (fibrosis score = 2.6 +/- 0.2 in vehicle-treated versus 1.5 +/- 0.2 in colchicine-treated animals). Colchicine treatment did not significantly affect weight, anti-guinea pig immunoglobulin level, % fibrocellular crescents formed, hydroxyproline per gram (dry weight) in tissue, or urine protein: creatine ratio. Regression analysis was performed to examine the interrelationships between variables for all animals and the effect of colchicine on pairs of variables. No clear-cut site of colchicine action could be identified. These data show that colchicine, in doses that could be used in humans, protected renal function by about 25% and reduced interstitial fibrosis in a model of severe crescentic nephritis. 
Diarrheal deaths in the United States, 1979 through 1987. A special problem for the elderly. OBJECTIVE.--Diarrhea is an important cause of death among young children in both developing and developed countries, but little is known about diarrheal death among adults. In this study, we examined trends in diarrheal deaths among all age groups in the United States. DESIGN/SETTING/PARTICIPANTS.--We reviewed national mortality data complied by the National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, Md, which consists of information from all death certificates filed in the United States for the period 1979 through 1987. A death for which diarrhea was listed as an immediate or underlying cause was considered a "diarrheal death" and included in the analysis. RESULTS.--We found that 28,538 persons died of diarrhea cited as either an immediate or the underlying cause of death during the 9-year period. A majority of diarrheal deaths occurred among the elderly (older than 74 years of age, 51%), followed by adults 55 to 74 years of age (27%), and young children (younger than 5 years of age, 11%). For the elderly, adjusted risk factors for dying of diarrhea included being white, female, and residing in a long-term care facility. Only the elderly and young children had clear, distinct winter peaks of diarrheal deaths, suggesting that the diarrhea may, in part, be infectious in origin. CONCLUSION.--For the elderly, more directed studies of those at risk, such as nursing home residents, are needed to determine if oral rehydration therapy, vaccines, or other preventive measures might benefit this population. 
Acute and chronic hemodynamic effects of xamoterol in mild to moderate congestive heart failure. Xamoterol, a new beta 1 partial agonist, has the potential to modulate cardiac response to variations in sympathetic tone in patients with heart failure. Its properties should result in beta-receptor stimulatory effects at low levels of sympathetic tone and beta-receptor protective effects at higher levels of sympathetic tone. The acute effects of intravenous (i.v.) xamoterol on hemodynamics at rest and during exercise were studied in 30 patients with mild to moderate heart failure (13 patients in New York Heart Association class II; 17 in class III) due to ischemic (n = 24) or cardiomyopathic (n = 6) heart disease. Cardiac index, stroke volume and stroke work index at rest were significantly improved after i.v. administration of xamoterol and consistent with net agonist effects. During exercise, heart rate and double product were significantly reduced (net antagonist effects), but with preservation of the expected increases in cardiac index and systolic blood pressure. These hemodynamic findings confirm the ability of xamoterol to modulate cardiac response to variations in sympathetic tone. Tachyphylaxis and arrhythmogenicity limit the chronic use of drugs with full beta-agonist properties as positive inotropes in heart failure. The patients were therefore entered into a 6-month double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of chronic oral xamoterol therapy, 200 mg twice daily, and the hemodynamic responses to i.v. xamoterol were repeated at the end of the trial. No impairment in either resting or exercise effects was observed, indicative of a maintained response and absence of tachyphylaxis after chronic therapy. Furthermore, 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring showed no change in ventricular arrhythmias during oral treatment. 
Trisomy 12 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: an interphase cytogenetic study. Interphase cytogenetics by means of in situ hybridization with the chromosome 12-specific biotinylated alpha satellite DNA probe pSP 12-1 was used for the study of trisomy 12, the most common chromosomal abnormality in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In situ hybridization was performed on methanol/acetic acid fixed cells of conventional cytogenetic preparations from eight patients and on morphologically and immunologically classified cells of cytospin preparations from seven patients. The results show that trisomy 12 is more common than assumed on the basis of karyotype analysis of metaphase chromosomes: 2 of 13 patients with a normal karyotype in G-banding analysis were shown to have trisomy 12 by interphase cytogenetics. Immunophenotyping of the cells of one patient showed that the trisomy was restricted to cells with Ig light chain clonality. For the evaluation of the prognostic, therapeutic, and biologic significance of trisomy 12, in situ hybridization should be used in parallel with karyotype analysis because it allows the study of all cell populations of both interphase and mitotic cells, whether neoplastic or normal. 
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1: a 10-year prospective screening study in four kindreds. A total of 80 individuals in 4 kindreds with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1) have been subjected to repeated biochemical screening during a 10-yr period with the principal aim being to analyze characteristics of the developing pancreatic lesion. Age at presentation of the MEN 1 trait averaged 18 yr in 7 previously unaffected individuals, and this effect of the screening procedure represented a lowering by almost 2 decades. Pancreatic endocrine involvement was recognized at a mean age of 25 yr and constituted the presenting lesion in a majority of the patients. A standardized meal test and basal values of serum pancreatic polypeptide, insulin, proinsulin, and gastrin were the most efficient markers for the pancreatic lesion and preceded signs of pancreatic tumors upon radiological examinations by a mean of 3.5 yr. A 75% penetrance of the islet cell disease and 90% for primary hyperparathyroidism within the affected individuals equalled the prevalences reported in autopsy studies. Two of the kindreds showed signs of intrafamilial homogeneity with respect to the profile of peptide excess (P less than 0.05) and considerable discrepancy in the malignant potential of the pancreatic lesions. The results of early detection and surgical intervention of the pancreatic tumors in MEN 1 suggested an impact on morbidity, while any effect on the mortality of these individuals remains to be clarified. 
Surgical risk of hemorrhage in cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is increasingly recognized as a cause of lobar cerebral hemorrhage in normotensive elderly individuals. Isolated reports have suggested that neurosurgical intervention entails a high risk of precipitated hemorrhage. We identified 16 pathologically confirmed cases of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Fourteen of these patients presented with lobar cerebral hemorrhage. Fifteen neurosurgical procedures in eight patients included eight clot evacuations, three abscess drainage procedures, two ventriculoperitoneal shunts, one biopsy, and one lobectomy. Recurrent postoperative cerebral hemorrhage was seen in four patients at 2 days, 9 days, 6 weeks, and 10 months, but surgery was thought to have precipitated the cerebral hemorrhage in only one patient. Recurrent cerebral hemorrhage also was seen in two of the eight nonoperated cases. Recurrent cerebral hemorrhage is characteristic of cerebral amyloid angiopathy, but we conclude that neurosurgical intervention, particularly evacuation of hematomas, is not associated with major risk of precipitated hemorrhage. 
Ventricular fibrillation complicating endomyocardial biopsy of a cardiac allograft. Transvenous endomyocardial biopsy remains the most useful diagnostic aid in assessing rejection in the transplanted heart. Although invasive, the complications associated with endomyocardial biopsy are few, and the procedure is generally regarded as safe. We report a case of apparent ventricular fibrillation complicating transvenous endomyocardial biopsy. Histologic section revealed evidence of moderate acute rejection. This case represents the first report of a life threatening ventricular dysrhythmia following routine endomyocardial biopsy in a cardiac transplant recipient. 
Catheter-less suprapubic cystolithotomy in children. Bladder stones in children are common in developing countries and the procedure of choice for their removal is suprapubic cystolithotomy. It is standard practice to drain the bladder for a few days post-operatively to prevent urinary leakage. We have observed that, if the bladder is closed meticulously in 2 layers, bladder drainage by means of a catheter is not required. We have analysed 86 children treated by suprapubic cystolithotomy without a catheter. Size of the stones and intra-operative findings were noted and it was found that 85% of the patients had an excellent result; 10% had a satisfactory result and 4.7% were unsatisfactory. The advantages of the procedure and selection of the patients are discussed. 
Deleted HTLV-I provirus in blood and cutaneous lesions of patients with mycosis fungoides. Mycosis fungoides, a rare form of cutaneous T cell leukemia/lymphoma, is suspected of having a viral etiology on the basis of certain similarities to adult T cell leukemia, which is associated with human T cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I (HTLV-I) infection. Cell lines were established from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of an HTLV-I-seronegative patient with mycosis fungoides. DNA hybridization analysis revealed the presence of HTLV-I-related sequences with unusual restriction endonuclease sites. Sequence analysis of subcloned fragments demonstrated the presence of a monoclonally integrated provirus with a 5.5-kilobase deletion involving large regions of gag and env and all of pol. Additional evidence for the presence of deleted proviruses was found by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of DNA from cutaneous lesions of five other HTLV-I-seronegative patients. The findings suggest that HTLV-I infection may be involved in the etiology of at least certain cases of mycosis fungoides. 
Prostate specific antigen in the management of patients with localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with primary radiation therapy. The records of 143 patients treated at 5 institutions with external beam megavoltage irradiation for localized prostatic cancer were reviewed to evaluate post-treatment changes in prostate specific antigen (PSA) in the context of subsequent events. Complete responders were defined as patients clinically well with normal PSA, clinical failures were patients with documented local tumor recurrence or distant metastases and chemical failures were patients clinically well but with a PSA level above the upper limits of normal. Correlations with pre-treatment PSA values were also made for the 50 of 143 patients for whom pre-treatment PSA data were available. Median patient followup was 27 months (range 18 to 91 months). The data were analyzed with parametric and nonparametric univariate and multivariate statistical procedures. Pre-treatment PSA levels increased with increasing tumor stage (p = 0.004) but not with increasing summed Gleason pattern scores (p = 0.15). The probability of remaining a complete responder decreased with increasing stage (p = 0.008) but not with increasing Gleason score (p = 0.14). Increasing pre-treatment PSA correlated with clinical failure (p = 0.01) and chemical failure (p = 0.006). Of the patients with a pre-treatment PSA level of less than 4 times the upper limits of normal 83% remained as complete responders compared to 30% of those with a higher pre-treatment PSA (p = 0.0002). The return of PSA levels to the normal range within 6 months after treatment was strongly correlated with a favorable outcome when analyzed by multivariate logistic regression. The status at last followup of patients who had a normal PSA level at 6 months versus those with an elevated PSA level 6 months after treatment is 94% versus 8% for complete responders (p = 0.0001), 0% versus 60% for clinical failures (p = 0.002) and 6% versus 32% for chemical failures (p = 0.14). Similar results occurred when analyzing outcomes in relationship to PSA normalization within 12 months after treatment (p = 0.001 for clinical failures, p = 0.02 for chemical failures and p = 0.001 for complete responders). We conclude that the pre-treatment level of PSA is an independent prognostic factor for prostate cancer patients treated with primary radiation therapy, and that the failure of PSA to return to the normal range within 1 year after completion of treatment identifies a group of patients at high risk for tumor recurrence. 
Hemodynamic effects of direct angiotensin II blockade compared to converting enzyme inhibition in rat model of heart failure. The purpose of this investigation was to compare the chronic effects of converting enzyme inhibition with captopril to direct blockade of angiotensin II (AII) with DuP 753 in the rat model of heart failure. Rats with chronic heart failure postinfarction were treated for 2 weeks with either captopril (2 g/L, N = 9) in their drinking water or with DuP 753 (40 mg/kg/day for two weeks by gastric gavage, N = 10), or placebo (N = 9). At this dose, DuP 753 shifted the log dose-pressor response curve to AII parallel to the right by two orders of magnitude in both chronically treated normal and heart failure rats. In rats with heart failure, DuP 753 and captopril reduced left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 26.7 +/- 1.5 to 14.2 +/- 3.0 (P less than .01) and 15.8 +/- 2.2 mm Hg (P less than .05), respectively, left ventricular end-diastolic volume index from 2.71 +/- 0.10 to 2.03 +/- 0.17 (P less than .05) and 2.18 +/- 0.15 (P less than .05), respectively; venous compliance increased from 2.27 +/- 0.06 to 2.80 +/- 0.18 (P less than .05) and 3.02 +/- 0.21 mL/mm Hg/kg (P less than .01), respectively. There were no significant changes in left ventricular weight/body weight ratio, mean aortic pressure, heart rate, or right atrial pressure. There was a trend, but not significant, for a reduction in total blood volume from 65.8 +/- 1.1 to 59.4 +/- 3.0 and 64.9 +/- 3.9 mL/kg, respectively. Thus, direct blockade of AII with DuP 753 or with converting enzyme inhibition with captopril produces similar hemodynamic changes in rats with heart failure after myocardial infarction. 
Preventive maintenance of the aging heart. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the major cause of mortality in the elderly. Important risk factors include hypercholesterolemia, systolic and diastolic hypertension, cigarette smoking, hyperglycemia, and obesity. Elderly patients with existing CHD should be treated aggressively to control these risk factors, along with other medical therapies to treat myocardial ischemia. For elderly patients without recognized CHD, however, a more conservative approach is recommended and includes behavioral interventions when appropriate and pharmacologic therapy for higher risk patients with persistent, uncontrolled risk factors. 
Screening in ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer will affect 20,000 American women this year and some 13,500 will die of the disease. Most patients will have stage III or IV disease at the time of diagnosis. Because ovarian cancer may be initially without symptoms, attempts have been made to develop screening tests that would lead to an early diagnosis. Two tests, serum CA 125 and pelvic ultrasonography, have been suggested by some to be accurate enough to be included in yearly screening for ovarian cancer. Although further testing of these techniques is encouraged, data to date do not justify yearly screening with CA 125 or pelvic ultrasonography in all women. 
Indicators of prognosis after hepatic resection for colorectal secondaries. From 1960 to 1988, 266 patients underwent resection of colorectal secondaries to the liver with curative intent. All patients were followed until April 1, 1990, or death, with a median follow-up time of 52 months. Nine patients with minimal macroscopic residual disease and 38 patients with all gross tumor removed but positive margins showed a poor prognosis with a median survival time of 13.3 months, the longest being 42 months. Of the 219 patients having potentially curative resection, 12 patients died postoperatively (5.5%). Actuarial 5, 10 and 20-year survival for the remaining 207 patients was 39%, 28%, and 18%, respectively. At April 1, 1990, 77 patients were alive with no evidence of disease for up to 24 years, and 12 patients had died without recurrence. The following factors were associated with less favorable crude survival: presence and extent of mesenteric lymph node involvement (p = 0.0003), grade III/IV primary tumor (p = 0.035), synchronous diagnosis of metastases (p = 0.017), satellite metastases (p = 0.0003), limited resection margins (p = 0.019), and nonanatomic procedures (p = 0.013). With respect to disease-free survival, grading of the primary (p = 0.055) and the extent of clear margins (p = 0.019) failed to achieve statistical significance. Two other criteria are commonly recommended as absolute contraindications to hepatic resection: extrahepatic disease and the presence of four or more independent metastases. A radical excision of all detectable disease may rarely be possible in these circumstances. Nevertheless, within the curative settings, no significant predictive value regarding either overall or disease-free survival was found in this series. Three corresponding "high risk" patients are alive without disease at 5 to 11 years from hepatic resection. These patients with more advanced intrahepatic or concomitant limited extrahepatic disease require a particularly thorough diagnostic work up. As no superior therapeutic alternative is currently available, an aggressive surgical approach may occasionally be justified, and may, in a small portion, result in definite tumor control. 
The effect of palliative radiation therapy on epidural compression due to metastatic malignant melanoma. The efficacy of palliative radiation therapy in the treatment of spinal cord and cauda equina compression due to metastatic malignant melanoma was evaluated in 38 sites in 35 patients treated between 1970 and 1990. All patients had radiographic documentation of epidural compression. The median dose of radiation therapy was 2850 cGy (range, 500 to 4000 cGy), with daily fractions ranging from 200 to 800 cGy. Twenty-eight sites in 26 patients were evaluable 1 month after completion of radiation therapy, and symptoms responded completely in 11 of 28 (39%) sites. Fourteen sites (46%) showed a partial response of symptoms. Response lasting until death was documented in 21 of 26 patients (81%). Patients receiving a total dose of 3000 cGy or greater were more likely to achieve a complete response than those receiving less than 3000 cGy (62% versus 20%) by univariate (P = 0.025) and multivariate (P = 0.048) analyses. A treatment program of radiation therapy and corticosteroids is effective in palliating the symptoms of epidural compression due to metastatic malignant melanoma. It is recommended to deliver an accelerated course of radiation therapy to a dose of 3000 cGy or greater without exceeding spinal cord tolerance (e.g., 3000 cGy in ten fractions at 300 cGy per fraction). 
Management of adipsia by a behavioural modification technique. Adipsia combined with diabetes insipidus after hypothalamic damage may produce major difficulties in clinical management. If there is an associated memory impairment it may be impossible to teach self-regulation of fluid balance, necessitating long-term hospital supervision. The successful use of a behaviour modification technique to achieve independent drinking and allow discharge from hospital into the community is described in a patient with adipsia, diabetes insipidus and memory impairment resulting from the removal of a craniopharyngioma. 
Thermal ablation of the gallbladder. Gallbladder ablation by means of injection of hot contrast medium was attempted in 13 dogs. Room temperature contrast medium was injected into the gallbladders of two additional dogs (controls). After midline laparotomy was performed to expose the gallbladder, temperature probes were placed in the liver adjacent to the gallbladder, and on the surface and in the lumen of the gallbladder. A 7-F catheter with multiple side holes was placed into the gallbladder. The cystic duct was clamped during the procedure. After injection of boiling contrast medium, the mean temperature in the gallbladder lumen was 80 degrees C; in the adjacent liver, 43.5 degrees C; and on the gallbladder surface, 45.8 degrees C. After the procedure, the cystic duct was unclamped, temperature probes and catheter were removed, and the laparotomy was closed in standard fashion. In the hot contrast medium group, one dog each was sacrificed at 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks, and at 6 months. Six animals were sacrificed at 1 year. The gallbladder was completely ablated in 11 of 13 animals in the hot contrast medium group. One dog was sacrificed at 8 days because of bile leakage, and another was sacrificed at 17 days because of gallbladder rupture. The two control animals were sacrificed at 12 and 13 weeks, and their gallbladders were normal at that time. 
A study guided by the Health Belief Model of the predictors of breast cancer screening of women ages 40 and older. In late 1987, a total of 852 Rhode Island women ages 40 and older were interviewed by telephone (78 percent response rate) to measure their use of breast cancer screening and to investigate potential predictors of use. Predictors included the women's socioeconomic status, use of medical care, a provider's reported recommendations for screening, and the women's health beliefs about breast cancer and mammography. The Health Belief Model guided the construction of the interview questions and data analysis. Logistic regression was used to identify leading independent predictors of breast cancer screening according to contemporary recommendations: reporting that a medical provider had ever recommended a screening mammogram (odds ratio [OR] = 18.77), having received gynecological care in the previous year (OR = 4.92), having a regular source of gynecological care (OR = 2.63), having ever had a diagnostic mammogram (OR = 2.32), and perceiving mammography as safe enough to have annually (OR = 1.93). The findings suggest that programs intended to increase the use of breast cancer screening should include "inreach" and "outreach" elements; inreach to patients with established patient-provider relationships, by assuring that physicians recommend screening to all eligible patients, and outreach to all eligible women, by helping them overcome barriers to effective primary care, and by promoting mammography, emphasizing its effectiveness and safety. The findings also suggest that socioeconomically disadvantaged women, who are less likely to be screened than other women, should become special targets of inreach and outreach interventions. 
Percutaneous drainage of traumatic pancreatic pseudocysts in children. To determine the effectiveness of percutaneous drainage of traumatic pancreatic pseudocysts, we reviewed the courses of 13 children. Six pseudocysts resolved on complete bowel rest and total parenteral nutrition. Seven required further therapy. Two pseudocysts were treated operatively; five were drained percutaneously with fluoroscopic guidance. These five ranged from 5 to 15 cm in diameter and were present for 10 to 42 days (mean, 26 days). In all cases, the cyst fluid was clear, had an amylase level of greater than 40,000 IU/L, and grew no organisms. The pigtail catheters left in place in four of the five children were removed when drainage stopped. Patients were followed by ultrasound while still in the hospital and 1 month after discharge. There were no complications nor any pseudocyst recurrence. Percutaneous drainage of traumatic pancreatic pseudocysts in children is an effective alternative to the standard operative therapy of pseudocystenteric anastomosis. 
A placebo-controlled trial of continuous intravenous diltiazem infusion for 24-hour heart rate control during atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter: a multicenter study. The safety and efficacy of a 10- to 15-mg/h continuous infusion of intravenous diltiazem were evaluated in 47 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter who first responded to 20 mg or 20 mg followed by one or more 25-mg bolus doses of open label intravenous diltiazem. Of the 47 patients, 44 responded to the bolus injection and were randomized under double-blind conditions to receive either a continuous infusion of intravenous diltiazem (10 to 15 mg/h) (23 patients) or placebo (21 patients) for up to 24 h. Seventeen (74%) of the 23 patients receiving diltiazem infusion and none of the 21 with placebo infusion maintained a therapeutic response for 24 h (p less than 0.001). Over 24 h, patients receiving diltiazem infusion lost response significantly more slowly than did those receiving placebo infusion (p less than 0.001). Nonresponders to the double-blind infusion were given an additional bolus injection of open label intravenous diltiazem and administered an open label 24-h intravenous diltiazem infusion. The overall proportion of patients maintaining a response to a 24-h infusion of intravenous diltiazem under double-blind or open label conditions combined was 83% (34 of 41). Efficacy of the 24-h infusion of intravenous diltiazem was similar in elderly versus young patients, those who did versus those who did not receive digoxin and those weighing less than 84 versus greater than or equal to 84 kg. However, intravenous diltiazem appeared to be more effective in atrial fibrillation than in atrial flutter. No significant untoward effects were noted. 
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists. In summary, histamine initiates acid secretion by stimulating the H2 subtype histamine receptor on parietal cells. Cimetidine, rantidine, famotidine, and nizantidine are histamine H2-receptor antagonists that block this action of histamine, reducing gastric acid output and concentration under both basal and stimulated conditions. These agents are used for treatment and prevention of peptic and stress ulcers as well as for hypersecretory states. Because of their effectiveness and low incidence of side effects, H2-antagonists have largely replaced more traditional antiulcer regimens. 
Seizures caused by nontraumatic parenchymal brain hemorrhages. Seizures occurred in 15% of patients with parenchymal brain hemorrhage (early in 12% and delayed in 3%). Seizures were most frequent with lobar hemorrhages and uncommon with deep subcortical hemorrhages. Lobar hemorrhages in the frontal, parietal, or temporal region were more commonly associated with seizures, whereas occipital hemorrhages were not. Seizures were most common if the hemorrhage was due to an aneurysm, angioma, or neoplasm and less common if hypertensive or spontaneous. If the patient had recurrent seizures or developed delayed seizures, CT showed that the hemorrhage evolved to a hypodense appearance; if the seizure did not recur, CT showed that the hemorrhage evolved to an isodense appearance. 
Patent ductus arteriosus in an infant with atrioventricular septal defect and pulmonary hypertension: diagnosis by transesophageal color flow echocardiography. An infant with complete atrioventricular septal defect (atrioventricular canal) was examined by standard transthoracic two-dimensional pulsed Doppler and color Doppler echocardiography. No evidence of ductus arteriosus was present. Preoperative transesophageal echocardiography identified a patent ductus: the left-to-right shunt seen by color Doppler echocardiography was enhanced by pharmacologic maneuvers aimed at decreasing pulmonary vascular resistance and increasing systemic vascular resistance. Transesophageal echocardiography was found to be more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography even in a small infant. 
Using ADLs to establish eligibility for long-term care among the cognitively impaired. Using a database from the Oregon Medicaid program, we examined the differences in the potential insurance coverage of demented persons by using different formulations of ADL (activities of daily living) dependencies in which the definition of dependency did or did not include the need for supervision. For those with clear dementia, 81-88% of the persons with significant behavioral problems were correctly identified when a cut score of three or more ADLs was used; this percentage was even higher for two or more ADLs. This approach was not as effective in correctly discriminating those who had no behavioral problems. 
Neuropathy, myopathy and destructive arthropathy in primary hypothyroidism. A 75-year-old woman with untreated primary hypothyroidism was found with peripheral neuropathy (including carpal tunnel syndrome), severe myopathy (high levels of creatine phosphokinase) and destructive arthropathy, affecting fingers, toes and the left knee. Radiographs of her knee showed destructive lesions of the tibial plateau similar to a pathologic compression fracture, while the joints of the fingers and toes showed all signs of severe erosive osteoarthritis (OA), radiographically documented over a period of 7 years. It is suggested that hypothyroidism is causally related to the development of erosive OA. 
Autoimmune aetiology for acquired neuromyotonia (Isaacs' syndrome). Neuromyotonia is a rare disorder of unknown cause in which hyperexcitability of peripheral motor nerves leads to incapacitating muscle twitching, cramps, and weakness. We investigated an antibody-mediated mechanism for neuromyotonia in a 24-year-old man with a 7-year history of severe disease unresponsive to pharmacological treatment. Two periods of plasma exchange each produced almost complete disappearance of symptoms for 2-3 weeks, and a highly significant decrease in recorded neuromyotonic discharges. Injection of the patient's plasma or purified IgG into mice significantly enhanced in-vitro resistance to d-tubocurarine at the neuromuscular junction of phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparations. This finding suggests that an increase in neurotransmitter release might result from an antibody-mediated reduction in the number of functional potassium channels that normally regulate nerve excitability. The demonstration of pathogenic IgG autoantibodies in acquired neuromyotonia suggests that immunosuppressive treatment may be helpful in severe cases. 
Use of a marshmallow bolus for evaluating lower esophageal mucosal rings. Sixty-three patients (35 women, 28 men; mean age 55 yr) with lower esophageal mucosal ring shown radiographically were examined with a semi-solid bolus consisting of a portion of a standard marshmallow. The most common symptom was dysphagia, present in 46 (73%) patients. Impaction of the marshmallow bolus by the ring occurred in 40 (63%) of the 63 patients, and produced symptoms in 27 (68%) of these 40 patients. Nine (14%) rings were detected radiographically only with a solid bolus; eight of these patients had dysphagia and seven rings were 20 mm or less in caliber. Impaction related to ring caliber, and was found in all 17 (100%) rings that were 13 mm or less in diameter, in 17/24 (71%) 14- to 19-mm rings, and in 6/22 (27%) rings 20 mm or more in caliber. Endoscopy in 23 patients detected 16 (70%) rings, and also depended on ring caliber: less than or equal to 13 mm, 6/6 (100%); 14-19 mm, 5/9 (56%); greater than or equal to 20 mm, 5/8 (63%). Marshmallow impaction occurred in 17 (74%) of 23 patients who had endoscopy; three of the 23 patients had normal endoscopy. In conclusion, radiographic examination supplemented by the use of a marshmallow bolus best detects lower esophageal mucosal ring. 
Blindness as an ictal phenomenon: investigations with EEG and SPECT in two patients suffering from epilepsy. Blindness is a rare ictal phenomenon in epileptic seizures. It can occur as an aura, as the seizure itself, or postictally. We investigated two such patients, in one of whom blindness manifested as an aura prior to tonic clonic seizures; the interictal EEG exhibited a spike-wave focus bioccipitally. In the second patient blindness occurred postictally. An ictal SPECT, carried out at the onset of the seizure demonstrated marked hyperperfusion in both occipital regions. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma: CT manifestations in 50 cases. Malignant pleural mesothelioma, a rare and usually fatal neoplasm that is associated with asbestos exposure, is being encountered with increasing frequency. Pretreatment CT findings from 50 patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma are illustrated. Pleural thickening was found in 46 (92%) of the 50 patients, thickening of the pleural surfaces of the interlobar fissures in 43 (86%), pleural calcifications in 10 (20%), and pleural effusions in 37 (74%). The volume of the involved hemithorax varied appreciably. Contractions of the involved hemithorax was noted in 21 (42%) of 50 patients and contralateral mediastinal shift in seven (14%). Disease beyond the parietal pleura was found in the chest wall (nine patients), mediastinum, lymph nodes, and diaphragm. 
Pseudosarcomatous fibromyxoid tumor of the prostate. A case report with immunohistochemical, electron microscopic, and DNA flow cytometric analysis. A 22-year-old man presented with symptoms of urinary obstruction and was found to have a 5-cm mass protruding from the left side of the prostate into the prostatic urethra. The lesion was partially removed by transurethral resection (TURP). The patient's symptoms recurred, so he required another TURP four months later; at latest follow-up (four years later), there waas no evidence of disease. Light microscopy revealed a myxoid lesion characterized by an atypical fibroblastic proliferation associated with a prominent inflammatory component and granulation tissue-type vasculature. The lesion nearly replaced the prostatic parenchyma and invaded the bladder wall. Immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy showed a predominance of fibroblasts with occasional myofibroblasts. DNA flow cytometric analysis showed that the tumor cells had a diploid DNA content. Given these findings and the indolent clinical course, the authors think that this lesion represents a benign, reactive process consistent with a pseudosarcomatous fibromyxoid tumor, a recently described rare lesion of the genitourinary tract. 
Characterization of macrophage colony-stimulating factor in body fluids by immunoblot analysis. We characterized the molecular species of human macrophage colony-stimulating factor (hM-CSF) found in serum and urine, using immunoblot analysis after partial purification on an antibody-bound affinity column. Although antibodies were prepared using the recombinant product of the large form of hM-CSF with a molecular weight (MW) of 85 Kd as the antigen, this immunoblot system was also capable of detecting the small form of hM-CSF with a MW of 40 to 60 Kd. A single band with a MW of 43 Kd, which reacted with anti-recombinant hM-CSF IgG but not with control IgG, was found when serum and urine from normal adults underwent electrophoresis on reduced sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel and subsequent immunoblotting. This band represented a subunit of the large form of hM-CSF, because the large form of hM-CSF is a homodimer of a subunit with a MW of 43 Kd and the small form of hM-CSF is a homodimer of a subunit with a MW of 20 to 30 Kd. Analysis of serum and urine from leukemic patients and pregnant women, who had higher serum levels of hM-CSF than normal adults, showed only a single band with a MW of 43 Kd as a hM-CSF-specific molecule. These results suggest that the large form of hM-CSF is the major species in human body fluids. 
Positive direct antiglobulin tests in myeloma patients. Occurrence, characterization, and significance. Review of direct antiglobulin testing (DAT) in 88 patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and five with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia revealed 26 cases with a positive DAT. Twenty-two of these had immunoglobulin G-M protein, three had light chain MM, and one had immunoglobulin A-MM protein. None of the immunoglobulin GD-MM (n = 2), nonsecretory MM (n = 5), or Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia patients (n = 5) were positive. None of the patients had hemolysis attributable to the adsorption of the M protein. The serum concentration of M protein was higher in DAT-positive patients (57.6 +/- 3.8 g/L, mean +/- SEM) than in the negative ones (35.7 +/- 6.4 g/L; probability value of the difference was less than 0.01). The erythrocyte eluates from DAT-positive patients contained a single immunoglobulin, of the same class as the M protein, and did not react with a panel of ABO-compatible erythrocytes. Addition of melphalan during incubation did not affect the results. The M protein of DAT-positive patients was of immunoglobulin G-3 subclass in 7 of 10 patients. A positive direct antiglobulin test frequently is seen in patients with multiple myeloma, the reaction is due to passive adsorption of the M protein onto the erythrocytes, is most frequently observed with immunoglobulin G3-MM, and usually does not produce hemolysis. 
The importance of surface immunoglobulin, mouse rosettes, and CD5 in the immunophenotyping of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and reactive lymphocytosis. Peripheral blood from 167 B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and 119 reactive lymphocytosis (RLC) patients were analyzed to evaluate the immunophenotypic diagnostic value of mouse rosettes (M-rosette), and weak expression of monoclonal surface immunoglobulin (SIg). In B-CLL, 145 cases were M-rosette+ (86.83%), 135 surface immunoglobulin (SIg)+ (80.84%), and 117 M-rosette+ SIg+ (70.06%). Of 32 SIg- cases, 28 were M-rosette+; and of 22 M-rosette-cases, 18 were SIg+. By combining results of the two assays and accepting positivity of either one or both as sufficient for diagnosis, B-CLL was diagnosed in 163 cases (97.60%). CD5 was performed in 49 cases of the 167 with paired data for SIg and M-rosettes. By combining the results of the three assays and accepting positivity of any two or all three as sufficient for diagnosis, all 49 cases (100%) were diagnosed. Correlation analysis showed no significant association between M-rosette, SIg, and CD5 expression. The results demonstrate the independent expression of the three markers, and their complementary role in immunophenotyping B-CLL. In RLC, all 119 cases were T-lineage and SIg-, and 115 were M-rosette-, indicating the role of the two markers in differentiating B-CLL from RLC. Three of the four M-rosette+ T-RLC were subsequently diagnosed as B-CLL, suggesting the necessity of follow-up of such cases. 
Class II-restricted presentation of an endogenously derived immunodominant T-cell determinant of hen egg lysozyme. An in vitro model was used to investigate the potential for different structural forms of endogenous antigen to be processed and presented by major histocompatibility complex class II molecules. For this purpose the class II-restricted presentation of an immunodominant epitope of hen egg lysozyme [HEL-(46-61)] was studied in class II-positive B-lymphoma cells (M12.C3) transfected with genes encoding HEL molecules either (i) secreted in high (hi) or low (lo) amounts as soluble antigen [sHEL(hi/lo)], (ii) localized within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)/salvage compartment (ER-HEL), or (iii) anchored on the cell surface as an integral membrane protein (mHEL). The corresponding sHEL, ER-HEL, and mHEL gene products were expressed as predicted except that HEL determinants accumulated in the culture supernatant as well as on the cell membrane of mHEL-transfected cells. Class II-positive cells endogenously expressing all three forms of HEL antigen constitutively presented the immunodominant HEL-(46-61) determinant with differential efficiency (mHEL, sHEL greater than ERHEL) to a class II-restricted T hybridoma. A second T hybridoma recognized endogenous HEL-(46-61) determinants constitutively presented on sHEL(hi) and mHEL transfectants but not on sHEL(lo) or ERHEL transfectants. The formation of HEL-(46-61)/I-Ak complexes in the ERHEL and sHEL(lo) transfectants was therefore limiting. Mixing experiments with different antigen-presenting cells indicated that the HEL-(46-61) determinant was derived from endogenous antigen rather than by reuptake of shed or secreted HEL determinants. We conclude that MHC class II molecules can present some antigenic determinants derived from endogenous proteins that are sequestered in the ER/salvage compartment as well as distally transported in the form of secretory or membrane antigens. 
Thoracoscopic diagnosis and treatment of chylothorax after pneumonectomy. Chylothorax after pneumonectomy was treated successfully by selective application of fibrin glue through a thoracoscope. Conservative therapy for 18 days failed to close the fistula. The site of leakage was identified during thoracoscopy, and fibrin glue was applied under direct vision. Leakage decreased immediately and eventually stopped completely. This technique is less invasive than standard surgical treatment and should be considered in all patients with postoperative chylothorax. 
Strategy for management of distal ileal Crohn's disease. We have determined the outcome of a defined policy for the management of distal ileal Crohn's disease using a prospective computer-based analysis of 139 patients diagnosed between 1970 and 1988 with a mean follow-up of 10 years. The policy in outline consists of conservative treatment for acute obstructive episodes, resection or strictureplasty for recurrent obstructive episodes, surgical treatment for abscess and fistula formation and specific medical treatment (corticosteroids, immunosuppressive therapy or metronidazole) for symptomatic non-obstructive disease. Twenty-nine patients had a benign course without resection. The remainder were treated surgically at some time but only 28 of these patients had specific treatment before operation. Thirty-three needed more than one resection and five needed more than three surgical procedures. Immediate, early or delayed surgical treatment did not affect the reoperation rates or the long-term outcome. Eleven patients died, ten of causes unrelated to Crohn's disease. Of the 128 living patients, 114 are fit and well, and only two are currently taking specific medication. Fourteen are unwell of whom six either need or have refused further surgery which could restore them to good health. This management policy has achieved excellent long-term results in nearly all patients, and our findings suggest that the timing of surgery and its nature are more important in determining outcome than specific medical therapy. 
The modified buccal musculomucosal flap method for cleft palate surgery. We have reported previously on a palatoplasty method, called the T-shaped musculomucosal buccal flap method, for the primary repair of a cleft palate. This method has been used on more than 90 patients, and satisfactory outcomes have resulted in terms of maxillar development, the prevention of fistulation, and verbal functions. However, 14.3 percent of these patients exhibited a velopharyngeal incompetence that showed no potential improvement through training. In the majority of these patients, the entire raw surface of the oral cavity side could not be covered with a buccal musculomucosal flap, and as a result, postoperative contraction of the soft palate occurred. Thus a new surgical method has proven effective in which both buccal musculomucosal flaps are used as an oral lining, the nasal mucosa having been extended by Z-plasty. We have performed 25 operations using this new method and have observed no postoperative contractions of the soft palate, notwithstanding two cases (8.0 percent) of postoperative fistulation. 
Comparative studies of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy by Dornier HM3, EDAP LT 01 and Sonolith 2000 devices. During a 2-year period extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) was done at our institution in 70 patients with the Dornier HM3, 113 with the EDAP LT 01 and 104 with the Sonolith 2000 lithotriptors. The size and location of stones were comparable in all 3 series, and all treatments were done by the same team of urologists. Complete fragmentation occurred in 79% of the patients treated by the Dornier, 82% treated by the EDAP and 79% treated by the Sonolith devices, with 3-month stone-free rates of 66, 67 and 58%, respectively. Auxiliary procedures were needed in 12% of the patients in the Dornier, 13% in the EDAP and 9% in the Sonolith groups. Repeat treatment was necessary in 4% of the Dornier group, 42% of the EDAP group and 26% of the Sonolith group. Therefore, all 3 lithotriptors are effective in stone disintegration and produce satisfactory results when selection criteria for ESWL are observed. The most significant difference among the 3 lithotriptors is the number of repeat treatments, which reflects the power and energy output of the lithotriptors. In conclusion, the Dornier HM3 device has the advantage of low repeat treatment rate and easier stone localization. The EDAP LT 01 unit has the advantage of lower treatment costs and anesthesia-free treatment with no irradiation. The Sonolith 2000 device has features of the other 2 lithotriptors with a superior ultrasound image. 
A systematic consideration of the neoplastic spectrum of AIDS: registry linkage in Illinois. To examine unexplored aspects of the association between AIDS and neoplasia, the Illinois AIDS and Cancer Registries were linked. The method integrated use of a personal computer to find exact matches on names and dates of birth with manual review to assure satisfaction of a match definition. Of the factors examined, white race and homosexuality predicted Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) among people with AIDS (PWAs), and white race predicted non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Earlier reports of a declining proportion of PWAs with KS were confirmed. Lymphoma (mixed lymphocytic/histiocytic type), while not currently diagnostic of AIDS, occurred more frequently among PWAs than in the Illinois population. For the first time, rates of cancers other than KS and NHL were demonstrated to be significantly increased among PWAs compared with general populations. In the light of these findings, reconsideration of current neoplastic definitions may be useful. 
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy of childhood: treatment with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin. We treated four children with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). All patients received 400 mg/kg of IVIG a day for 5 days during relapses, and one patient received additional periodic infusions of 400 mg/kg. All patients showed excellent recovery of motor strength following each relapse that was treated with IVIG. Compared with plasmapheresis (which was used to treat relapses earlier), recovery of function with IVIG treatments was similar, and in two patients it was superior, to plasmapheresis. There were no side effects with IVIG treatments as compared with plasmapheresis with which two children had infection of central lines with Staphylococcus epidermidis, one had profuse bleeding from accidental extrusion of a central line, and one had multiple episodes of major venous thromboses. High-dose IVIG was a safe and effective adjunctive therapy for childhood CIDP in these four patients. 
Experience with laser-assisted balloon angioplasty and a rotary angioplasty instrument: lessons learned. Favorable early results with mechanical angioplasty devices and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty have resulted in aggressive marketing and a rapid increase in the use of these devices for the treatment of femoropopliteal occlusive disease. Recent reports, however, have questioned the durability of these less invasive procedures. Since 1986 we have been involved in the clinical investigation of the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. One hundred two balloon angioplasty procedures assisted by the Nd:YAG laser (n = 56) and the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument (n = 46) were performed for the treatment of femoropopliteal occlusive lesions. Both Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty groups were similar with regard to age, operative indication, preoperative ankle-brachial index, lesion length, and distal runoff. Mean follow-up was 19 months in the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument group and 15 months in the laser-assisted balloon angioplasty group. Technically successful recanalization was achieved in 67% of Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures and 82% of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures. Early hemodynamic and clinical improvement was obtained in 59% of Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures and 57% of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures. Two-year clinical success by life-table analysis was 37% in the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument group and 19% in the laser-assisted balloon angioplasty group. The level of subsequent surgical revascularization was not altered in any patient by Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty or laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. 
Passive immunoprophylaxis after liver transplantation in HBsAg-positive patients. 110 HBsAg-positive patients underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and received long-term anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) passive immunoprophylaxis with anti-HBs immunoglobulin. During a mean follow-up period of 20 months, all patients became HBsAg negative after transplantation but circulating HBsAg reappeared in 25 (22.7%). Overall 1-year survival was 83.6% and overall 2 year actuarial recurrence of HBsAg was 29% (59% after posthepatitis B cirrhosis, 13% after posthepatitis B-delta cirrhosis, and 0% after fulminant hepatitis B). Patients with HBV cirrhosis who were HBV-DNA positive had a much greater risk of HBsAg recurrence than patients who were HBV-DNA negative (96% vs 29% at 2 years). Reappearance of HBsAg was associated with evidence of HBV replication and abnormal histological findings in the graft. Long-term passive anti-HBV immunoprophylaxis significantly reduced HBV reinfection and improved survival in patients without evidence of active HBV replication before orthotopic liver transplantation. 
Differential activation within costal diaphragm during rapid-eye-movement sleep in cats. Simultaneous recordings of the diaphragmatic electromyogram (EMG) were made from two separate regions of the costal diaphragm in six normal cats. The diaphragmatic activities were always synchronous and the amplitudes and rates of rise were similar during slow-wave sleep. In contrast, during natural rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep, different activity was often present in the two leads. These differences were in the time of onset and offset, as well as in the amplitude and spike patterns, and occurred in approximately 5-20% of the diaphragmatic bursts averaged over the entire REM sleep period. With respect to eye movement density, the rate of differential activation was higher during periods of high density (26%) than in the absence of eye movements (1%) in the four animals for which these data were available. Differential activation of portions of the costal diaphragm is apparently a normal event of REM sleep. This could result from descending state-specific phasic neuronal activity that bypasses the medullary respiratory generator. Differential activation of portions of the diaphragm could contribute to disordered ventilation during REM sleep. 
Posttraumatic headache and the postconcussion syndrome. Although headache is the most common sequelae of head injury, the posttraumatic headache is associated frequently with dizziness, irritability, lack of concentration, and intolerance to alcohol ingestion as a part of a symptom complex known as the postconcussion syndrome. This article clarifies the definitions of acute traumatic headache, posttraumatic headache, and the postconcussion syndrome and improves diagnostic ability, making the assessment and treatment of patients with these three conditions more accurate and effective. 
Characterization of interactions of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli O127:H6 with mammalian cells in vitro. Previous studies have identified two bacterial factors involved in enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) infection. A plasmid-mediated EPEC adherence factor (EAF) is responsible for initial and localized adherence. A chromosomally encoded E. coli attachment and effacement factor (eae) is involved in effacement of the eukaryotic cell surface and characteristic "pedestal" formation. By using isogenic strains deficient in either EAF, eae, or both, the process of EPEC adherence and entry in vitro was examined. While EAF proved necessary and sufficient for efficient bacterial association with HEp-2 cells, both EAF and eae were required for efficient effacement of and entry into these cells and other cultured cell lines. Invasion mediated by eae was markedly inhibited by cytochalasin D and colchicine. Afimbrial adhesion or type I pili from uropathogenic strains of E. coli substituted for EAF in EAF-Eae+ strains to provide initial adherence to HEp-2 cells and to facilitate actin condensation. 
Who will operate on Africa's 3 million curably blind people? About half the 6 million blind people in sub-Saharan Africa have surgically curable cataract. The available manpower and resources can only provide services for less than 10% of the new blind cataract patients each year, and little is being done for the estimated 3 million "cataract backlog". A serious limiting factor to the development of prevention of blindness programmes is lack of trained manpower. Despite an increase in the number of ophthalmologists trained in cataract surgery (which varies greatly from country to country), this number is not keeping pace with increased demand for eye-care services, especially in large rural populations. Initiatives that will help to overcome this dilemma are specific post-graduate courses in community ophthalmology in Africa, plans to develop a one-year diploma in ophthalmology course for English-speaking West African countries, and a proposal to upgrade a similar course in Zimbabwe. Additionally there is a need for the training of more ophthalmic assistants, cataract surgeons, and nurses in the diagnosis and management of common ophthalmic disorders. Experienced expatriate ophthalmologists also have an important role in the teaching of doctors and ophthalmic assistants how to select patients and carry out successful inexpensive cataract surgery with appropriate technology and limited facilities. 
Ectopic pituitary adenoma in the suprasellar cistern: case report. The case of a 56-year-old man with an ectopic pituitary adenoma is reported. Neurological examinations, neurodiagnostic imaging, surgical observation, endocrinological evaluation, histological examination, and immunohistological study demonstrated evidence of ectopic prolactinoma in the suprasellar cistern and the presence of a normal pituitary in the sella turcica. The patient underwent total removal of the suprasellar mass by a pterional approach, leading to a surgical and endocrinological cure. 
Two cases of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with myelopathy. We describe two patients with autopsy-proven neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis (NAE) presenting only as a transverse myelopathy for 10 to 12 months, followed by disseminated intracranial manifestations. Postmortem examination disclosed a vasculocentric distribution of neoplastic cells in various organs that stained positively with B-lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibody. These cases were unusual because they manifested as an isolated myelopathy for many months. 
Treatment of esophageal varices: low versus high dose of 5% ethanolamine oleate. Twenty-four patients, undergoing sclerotherapy for esophageal varices, were injected with 10-20 ml of ethanolamine oleate 5% in the first treatment session (group A). Fourteen patients were injected with 40 ml of the same sclerosant in the first session (group B). Retrospective analysis was carried out to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the two doses. Variceal eradication was achieved in group B in significantly fewer sclerotherapy sessions. Rebleeding occurred in 16% of patients in group A, compared with no rebleeding in group B. There was no significant difference in the incidence of various complications. We conclude that the use of 40 ml of 5% ethanolamine oleate in the first session is more effective and as safe as the use of 20 ml of the same sclerosant. 
Endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral blood vessels during chronic hypertension. Acetylcholine produces less dilatation of pial arterioles in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) than in normotensive (WKY) rats. Responses of cerebral vessels to acetylcholine and bradykinin appear to involve different mechanisms. Our first goal was to determine whether responses of pial arterioles to bradykinin are impaired in SHRSP. Diameter of pial arterioles (20-60 microns) was measured using intravital microscopy in WKY rats and SHRSP (9-12 months old). Superfusion of bradykinin (3 x 10(-7) M) dilated pial arterioles by 35 +/- 6% (mean +/- SEM) in WKY rats, but only 21 +/- 3% in SHRSP (p less than 0.05 versus WKY rats). Both nitric oxide (5 x 10(-7) M) and nitroglycerin (10(-5) M) produced similar vasodilatation in WKY rats and SHRSP. Our second goal was to determine whether alteration of postreceptor mechanisms contributes to impairment of endothelium-dependent cerebral vasodilatation in SHRSP. Calcium ionophore A23187 (10(-5) M) produced more vasodilatation in WKY rats than in SHRSP (32 +/- 8% versus 9 +/- 4%, p less than 0.05). Responses to A23187 (10(-5) M) were inhibited by indomethacin (46 +/- 13% versus 15 +/- 5%, p less than 0.05) in WKY rats, whereas responses to A23187 (10(-6) M) were potentiated modestly by indomethacin (-3 +/- 2% versus 4 +/- 2%, p less than 0.05) in SHRSP. 
Primary malignant melanoma of the gasserian ganglion associated with neurofibromatosis. A case of primary intracranial malignant melanoma of the left gasserian ganglion associated with temporal lobe gliosis in a patient suffering from von Recklinghausen's disease is reported. The association of primary malignant melanoma of the trigeminal nerve and neurofibromatosis is discussed. 
Lymph node counts in the upper abdomen: anatomical basis for lymphadenectomy in gastric cancer. The number of regional lymph nodes was determined in sites relevant to lymphadenectomy in gastric cancer in 30 cadavers. Tissue was cleared by dissolving fatty tissue, thus making lymph nodes with a diameter of at least 1 mm visible. All lymph node stations indicated by the Japanese Research Society for Gastric Cancer were studied. In stations 1-11 (corresponding with R2 resection) an average of 27 nodes (range 17-44 nodes) was found, whereas stations 1-16 (corresponding with R3 resection) showed an average of 43 nodes (range 25-64 nodes). These values are higher than those usually obtained from lymphadenectomy for gastric cancer. Striking individual differences in the total number of lymph nodes and the number of single stations was observed. The number of lymph nodes in these investigations are the normal anatomical values and serve as quality control of lymph node dissection in gastric carcinoma. 
Gamma-interferon promotes proliferation of adult human astrocytes in vitro and reactive gliosis in the adult mouse brain in vivo. Reactive gliosis is a characteristic response of astrocytes to inflammation and trauma of the central nervous system. To investigate whether soluble factors (cytokines) from inflammatory mononuclear cells that accumulate at lesion sites can provide the cellular signals to initiate gliosis and to identify such cytokines, we have tested and found that supernatants derived from subsets of activated human T lymphocytes (CD8+ or CD4+) are potent mitogens for cultured human adult astrocytes. This effect is blocked by a neutralizing antibody to gamma-interferon (IFN). Recombinant IFN alone can induce proliferation of human adult astrocytes in vitro and increase the extent of trauma-initiated gliosis in the adult mouse brain. The astrocyte proliferation-inducing activity of supernatants of glial cultures treated with IFN can be completely blocked with IFN-neutralizing antibody, suggesting that the proliferative effect does not require intermediary cytokines or cells. These results implicate IFN as an important mediator of the gliosis observed in pathologic conditions of the adult central nervous system associated with infiltrating lymphocytes. 
Clinically significant pneumatosis intestinalis with postoperative enteral feedings by needle catheter jejunostomy: an unusual complication. We evaluated the incidence of clinically significant pneumatosis intestinalis and intestinal necrosis with the use of needle catheter jejunostomy in 217 consecutive patients who had undergone complicated abdominal operations or selected bariatric procedures. The needle catheter jejunostomy was used to deliver immediate postoperative nutrition, maintenance, and replacement fluids, and selected medications. In this group, no serious complications requiring surgical intervention were related to the use of needle catheter jejunostomies. Clinically significant pneumatosis intestinalis was encountered in two of 217 patients (1%). With the needle catheter jejunostomy in place, both patients improved rapidly when enteral feedings were discontinued and parenteral antibiotics were administered. None of the 217 patients developed ischemic intestinal necrosis. We conclude that 1) clinically significant pneumatosis is a rare complication of enteric feeding via needle catheter jejunostomy when the intrajejunal feeding is begun with a diluted, hypoosmolar solution with stepwise increases in osmolality, and 2) patients who do develop clinically significant pneumatosis (n = 2) seem to respond rapidly to a temporary stoppage of enteral feedings and administration of parenteral antibiotics. 
Facial nerve and medially invasive petrous bone cholesteatomas. Eight patients with extensive petrous bone cholesteatomas that invaded the labyrinth and fallopian canal are presented. The eight cases are added to a tabulation of prior literature reports to elucidate concepts of routes of extension of medially invasive temporal bone cholesteatoma. Medially invasive petrous bone cholesteatoma develops insidiously, often without symptoms other than facial palsy and/or unilateral deafness. Typically, a history of chronic ear disease can be obtained. While hearing is unlikely to be preserved in this group of patients, facial nerve function can usually be preserved, and a facial nerve graft was not necessary in our series. Acute facial nerve palsy or facial nerve paresis progressing to palsy in patients with a history of chronic ear disease should be studied radiographically for petrous bone cholesteatoma, even if there is no physical evidence of cholesteatoma. 
Controlled trial of 2, 4, and 6 months of pyrazinamide in 6-month, three-times-weekly regimens for smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis, including an assessment of a combined preparation of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide. Results at 30 months. Hong Kong Chest Service/British Medical Research Council In a study in Hong Kong 1,386 Chinese patients with sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were allocated at random to four 6-month regimens of chemotherapy, all given three times weekly from the start and all containing isoniazid (H) and rifampin (R) throughout. Three contained streptomycin (S) for the first 4 months and pyrazinamide (Z) for 2 months (Z2), 4 months (Z4), or 6 months (Z6); the fourth contained pyrazinamide for 6 months but no streptomycin (Z6noS). Every dose of all four regimens was given under the direct supervision of clinic staff on a predominantly outpatient basis. During the later part of the intake patients were allocated at random to be given their HRZ either as a combined formulation (Rifater), each tablet containing 125 mg isoniazid, 100 mg rifampin, and 375 mg pyrazinamide, or as the three drugs separately. Among 892 assessable patients with drug-susceptible strains of tubercle bacilli pretreatment, bacteriologic failure during chemotherapy occurred in 4, all Z6noS (2% of 224; p less than 0.005 for the comparison with the S-containing regimens). During 30 months of follow-up after the end of chemotherapy, bacteriologic relapse occurred in 2 (3%) of 71 Z2, 2 (3%) of 72 Z4, 4 (6%) of 66 Z6, and 6 (9%) of 64 Z6noS patients allocated to Rifater, and in 4 (3%) of 149 Z2, 8 (6%) of 133 Z4, 2 (1%) of 142 Z6, and 6 (4%) of 135 Z6noS patients allocated to separate drugs. In the relapse rates there were no significant differences between the Rifater and separate drug regimens, the different durations of pyrazinamide, or the regimens with and without streptomycin. 
Failure of initial 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring to predict refractoriness and intractability in reflux esophagitis. Prolonged esophageal pH monitoring is considered to be the most sensitive and specific test for the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). However, the role of pH monitoring in predicting the clinical and endoscopic response of reflux esophagitis is not well defined. In this study, 106 patients with moderate to severe symptoms of GERD and esophagitis (grades 0-IV) by endoscopy were initially studied by ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring, and their clinical response to standard H2 antagonist therapy was monitored at 8 wk. Refractory patients were defined as those who failed to heal and/or had intractable reflux symptoms after 8 wk of H2 antagonist therapy, and who required continuous therapy with higher doses of H2 antagonists, addition of prokinetic agents, or omeprazole. There was a positive correlation (r = 0.89) between endoscopic severity of esophagitis upon entry into the study and refractoriness to standard medical therapy. However, there were no differences in the various pH parameters analyzed between the 58 patients who responded and the 48 patients who were refractory to medical therapy, regardless of the endoscopic grading of their esophagitis. We conclude that 24-h ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring does not predict refractoriness of reflux esophagitis to standard therapy. The decision for more aggressive methods of treatment probably requires assessment of symptomatic and endoscopic response after 8 week standard H2 antagonist therapy. 
Ultrastructural morphometry of gastric endocrine cells before and after omeprazole. A study in the oxyntic mucosa of duodenal ulcer patients. Long-term toxicological experiments with inhibitors of acid secretion were found to induce hyperplasia and eventually carcinoid tumors of the enterochromaffin-like cells of the oxyntic mucosa. To evaluate the effects of 6 months' treatment with omeprazole in humans, the oxyntic endocrine cells were morphometrically investigated at the ultrastructural level in five patients with active duodenal ulcer. No omeprazole-induced changes were found in the volume density of the total endocrine cell population and specific cell types (including the enterochromaffin-like cell) as well as in the other cytological parameters investigated (number of cell profiles per unit area, mean cross-sectional area of cell profiles, nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio, and density of cytoplasmic secretory granules). Both pretreatment and post-treatment values in our patients with duodenal ulcer significantly differed from those of a previous investigation of healthy volunteers with regard to the volume density of enterochromaffin-like cells and non-granulated cells, which increased, and of D cells, which markedly decreased. The latter result may provide a cellular basis for impairment in the paracrine release of fundic somatostatin in peptic ulcer disease. Finally, morphometric data on endocrine cell volume density provided by electron microscopy were found to correlate with those obtained in the same patients using light microscopy techniques (Grimelius silver impregnation and chromogranin A immunostaining). It is concluded that 6 months' treatment with pharmacological doses of omeprazole is devoid of appreciable trophic effect on endocrine cells of human oxyntic mucosa. 
Fate of patients with acute myocardial infarction with patency of the infarct-related vessel achieved with successful thrombolysis versus rescue angioplasty. Patients with failure of infarct-related artery recanalization after thrombolytic therapy have a poor clinical outcome. These patients have been considered for rescue angioplasty 90 min after thrombolytic therapy at the time of emergency catheterization in the course of five Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) trials. The outcome of 776 patients with patent infarct-related vessels after emergency catheterization was analyzed--607 with thrombolysis-mediated patency of the infarct-related vessel and 169 with patency achieved by angioplasty. Baseline characteristics of the thrombolysis and angioplasty patency groups were similar except for a higher acute left ventricular ejection fraction (51.3% versus 48.2%) in the thrombolysis group (p = 0.003). Seven to 10 day left ventricular ejection fraction was higher (52.3% versus 48.1%), infarct zone functional recovery was greater (0.44 versus 0.21 standard deviation/chord, or 18% versus 7%, p = 0.001) and reocclusion was less (11% versus 21%) in the thrombolysis compared with the angioplasty group. Despite these differences, angioplasty patency was associated with the same low in-hospital mortality rate (5.9% versus 4.6%) and long-term mortality rate (3% versus 2%) as thrombolysis patency. Reocclusion adversely affected the mortality rate and ventricular functional recovery. Technical failure of rescue angioplasty was associated with a much higher mortality rate than was technical success (39.1% versus 5.9%). Thrombolysis patency was preferable to angioplasty patency after thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction, but both were associated with the same low in-hospital and long-term mortality rates, suggesting that rescue angioplasty is beneficial in some patients with failure of infarct-related artery recanalization after thrombolytic therapy. 
Exploring the molecular basis for variability among patients with Becker muscular dystrophy: dystrophin gene and protein studies. Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) often results from in-frame mutations of the dystrophin gene that allow production of an altered but partially functional protein. To address potential structure-function relationships for the various domains of dystrophin, we examined both the dystrophin gene and protein in 68 patients with abnormal dystrophin. Eighty-six percent of BMD patients with dystrophin of altered size have deletions or duplications, and the observed sizes of dystrophin fit well with predictions based on DNA data. Deletions within the amino-terminal domain I tended to result in low levels of dystrophin and a more severe phenotype. The phenotypes of patients with deletions or duplications in the central rod domain were more variable. This region can be divided into three portions based on differences in clinical presentations of patients. Deletions around exons 4553 were most common and generally caused typical BMD; however, phenotypic variability among patients with similar mutations suggests that epigenetic and/or environmental factors play an important role in determining the clinical progression. In contrast, deletions or duplications in the proximal portion of this domain tended to cause severe cramps and myalgia. Finally, loss of the middle of this region probably causes a very mild phenotype, as only one such patient was found and his only symptom was elevated serum creatine phosphokinase levels. 
Anterior urethral polyp associated with hematuria in six-year-old child. Anterior urethral polyps are rare, occur only in male patients, and have been associated with obstruction, terminal hematuria, and enuresis. We believe this is the fifth reported case of anterior urethral polyp associated with terminal hematuria. The radiographic findings, treatment, and pathology are reviewed. 
Percutaneous stimulation of the cauda equina. A new diagnostic method in spinal stenosis. A study to determine the feasibility of measurement of conduction velocities through the lumbosacral nerve roots by direct percutaneous stimulation of the cauda equina is reported. The technique was applied to a series of normal volunteers and its reliability and reproducibility confirmed. An electrophysiologic defect was demonstrated in most patients with surgically proven lateral recess stenosis. Electrophysiologic recovery was shown in patients examined after surgery. Although the technique can be refined, these early results are encouraging. 
Reducing the risk of stroke: identifying patients to refer for carotid endarterectomy. The most common causes of stroke are two diseases of aging: hypertension and atherosclerosis. Therefore, although stroke may occur at any age, the incidence is highest among the elderly population. Noninvasive efforts to reduce the risk of stroke in the elderly include control of hypertension and diabetes, smoking cessation, low-cholesterol dietary habits, and moderate exercise. Routine low-dose aspirin also provides some protective effect. High-risk patients (with asymptomatic high-grade stenosis, TIAs, or prior stroke) should be considered candidates for carotid endarterectomy in the absence of contraindications to surgery. 
Comparison of 1 or 3 MU of interferon alfa-2b and placebo in patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis. Ninety patients with histologically documented chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis were randomly allocated to receive SC injections of placebo or of 1 or 3 MU of recombinant interferon alfa-2b three times weekly for 24 weeks. Complete normalization of alanine aminotransferase levels occurred posttreatment in 43.3% of patients receiving 3 MU, in 20% of those receiving 1 MU, and in 6.7% of untreated patients (P less than 0.0005 vs. those treated with 3 MU). Alanine aminotransferase normalization was sustained for 6 months after therapy in 13.3% of the patients treated with 3 MU and in 3.3% of those given 1 MU or placebo. The decline of alanine aminotransferase levels following interferon therapy showed independent, positive correlations with female sex (P less than 0.03) and younger age (P less than 0.05). The Knodell's fibrosis score was strongly positively correlated with age (P less than 0.0001). It is concluded that 3 MU of interferon is a more effective dose than 1 MU for controlling disease activity in non-A, non-B chronic hepatitis patients. Women and younger and noncirrhotic patients are more likely to respond. 
Angiographic management of retroperitoneal hemorrhage from renal angiomyolipoma in polycystic kidney disease. Angiographic management of bilateral angiomyolipomas complicated by hemorrhage in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is presented. The patient had mild stigmata of tuberous sclerosis, and a family history of tuberous sclerosis and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. The radiographic features at diagnosis, and those present during and after embolization are described. Radiological criteria for diagnosis and successful control of bleeding with intra-arterial selective embolization are discussed. Radiographic features before, during and after embolization are exhibited. 
Paraplegia in a pregnant thalassemic woman due to extramedullary hematopoiesis: successful management with transfusions. The investigation and treatment of a pregnant thalassemic woman who developed severe paraplegia is presented. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a paravertebral mass infiltrating the epidural space, resulting from extramedullary hematopoiesis (marrow heterotopia). The patient was treated successfully with repeated blood transfusions and made a complete recovery. The literature (36 cases) is reviewed and the magnetic resonance imaging features of spinal extramedullary hematopoiesis are presented. The efficacy of transfusions in the management of spinal cord compression due to marrow heterotopia in thalassemic patients is discussed. 
Hypertension following erythropoietin therapy in anemic hemodialysis patients. Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) corrects the anemia of end-stage renal disease. However, hypertension has been observed as an adverse effect of increasing red cell mass. In our study, 44 of 63 patients (70%) treated with rHuEpo had an increase in mean arterial pressure greater than 10 mm Hg or required new or additional hypertensive medications. Retrospective analysis disclosed that increasing blood pressure was associated with pretreatment hematocrit level less than or equal to 0.20 (P = .05) and dependency on red cell transfusions (P less than .01). Factors not associated with hypertension included the rate of rise of the hematocrit, the net rise in hematocrit, age, sex, the number of years on dialysis, the presence or absence of kidneys, smoking, or the presence of pretreatment hypertension. Noninvasive hemodynamic studies in eight normotensive patients before and after improvement of the anemia demonstrated a normalization of the decreased peripheral vascular resistance and a reduction toward normal in the elevated cardiac output. In three of these patients, clinical hypertension subsequently evolved. Follow-up hemodynamic studies in nine other patients receiving new or additional antihypertensive medications were difficult to interpret. Although the hypertension can be controlled with routine medication, hypertensive encephalopathy may occur if the blood pressure increases rapidly when the hematocrit increases with rHuEpo therapy. 
Is craniospinal irradiation required to cure children with malignant (anaplastic) intracranial ependymomas? Between 1970 and 1989, 17 children with histologically malignant intracranial ependymomas received treatment at the University of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia, PA). Eleven were treated with prophylactic cranial or craniospinal irradiation plus a local boost (CS-XRT), five with local (L-XRT) irradiation only, and one was treated without (NRT) irradiation. With a median survival of 2 years and a median follow-up time for long-term survivors of 6.0 years, five of 11 patients who received CS-XRT are alive compared with none treated with L-XRT and none treated with NRT. Two-year actuarial survival rates are 40% (L-XRT) and 52% (CS-XRT). When examined for other factors, age and local radiation dose remain the most significant prognostic indicators of survival. The 2-year actuarial survival for children younger than 4 years at diagnosis is 20% compared with 83% for their older counterparts. Likewise, the 2-year survival for patients treated with local radiation doses over 4500 cGy was 55% compared with 0% for patients treated with lesser doses. To date there are a total of 28 recurrences. All have occurred with local components except for six (unknown) who died before the exact site(s) could be determined. There is no significant difference in the failure rates outside the original tumor bed in the three groups. These data suggest that local relapse remains the most significant component of failure. Because intrinsic and extrinsic factors such as age and radiation dose seem to be interrelated and at least as important as the use of craniospinal irradiation, the need for prophylactic treatment for children with anaplastic ependymoma could neither be substantiated nor refuted. The use of local radiation alone, however, should be restricted to carefully designed clinical trials in which meticulous pretreatment evaluation is performed, and vigilant posttreatment evaluation of the spine and brain is mandatory. 
Increased free light chains in the urine from patients with multiple sclerosis. We quantitated free kappa (kappa) and lambda light (L) chains in coded urine specimens from subjects with clinically definite multiple sclerosis (MS) (N = 56), other neurologic diseases (OND) (N = 30), and age-matched normal controls (N = 28). Urine from MS patients showed statistically significant increases in free L chains compared with the other groups, although there was overlap between MS patients and OND patients. The ratio of kappa/creatinine was significantly greater in the relapsing-remitting MS group than in patients with clinically stable MS, OND, and normal controls. Elevated free L chains were usually independent of urinary albumin and beta 2-microglobulin levels. Serial studies showed that urinary free kappa/creatinine ratios were elevated during periods of clinical worsening in seven of eight MS patients and subsequently decreased during clinical recovery. The measurement of free L chains in urine obtained at intervals from MS patients may be useful as a marker to monitor disease activity. 
The interaction of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 with plasminogen activators (tissue-type and urokinase-type) and fibrin: localization of interaction sites and physiologic relevance. Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), an essential regulatory protein of the fibrinolytic system, harbors interaction sites for plasminogen activators (tissue-type [t-PA] and urokinase-type [u-PA]) and for fibrin. In this study, anti-PAI-1 monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) were used to identify interaction sites of PAI-1 with these components. The binding sites of 18 different MoAbs were established and are located on five distinct "linear" areas of PAI-1. MoAbs, binding to two distinct areas of PAI-1, are able to prevent the inhibition of t-PA by PAI-1. In addition, two interaction sites for fibrin were identified on PAI-1. The area located between amino acids 110 and 145 of PAI-1 contains a binding site for both components and its significance is discussed in the context of the t-PA inhibition by fibrin-bound PAI-1. Subsequently, the MoAbs were used to assess the role of platelet-PAI-1 in clot-lysis. An in vitro clot-lysis system was used to demonstrate that clot-lysis resistance is dependent on the presence of activated platelets and that PAI-1 is a major determinant for lysis-resistance. We propose that, upon activation of platelets, PAI-1 is fixed within the clot by binding to fibrin and retains its full capacity to inhibit t-PA and u-PA. 
Granulomatous pulmonary zygomycosis in a patient without underlying illness. Computed tomographic appearances and treatment by pneumonectomy. Pulmonary zygomycosis rarely occurs in the absence of underlying disease. We report a patient with granulomatous pulmonary zygomycosis without underlying disease who presented with a pulmonary mass. We present the computed tomographic findings that we believe have not been described previously. We also report the successful treatment by pneumonectomy. 
Mucosal dysplasia and DNA content in ulcerative colitis patients with ileorectal anastomosis. Follow-up study in a defined patient group. In a follow-up study of an epidemiologically defined patient group comprising 1,274 patients with ulcerative colitis diagnosed in Stockholm County during 1955-1979, 55 patients had undergone colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA). Nine of these were found to have Crohn's disease after histopathologic review of the colectomy specimens. Of the 46 patients with ulcerative colitis remaining for evaluation, two died postoperatively. Twenty-five patients were subsequently reoperated with rectal excision owing to intractable inflammatory activity (n = 22, one postoperative death) or owing to dysplasia (n = 3). Of 19 patients with their IRA still intact at time of follow-up, 15 patients (median disease duration 23 years) had a flexible sigmoidoscopy with multiple biopsies performed. The average length of the remaining rectum and sigmoid colon was 26 cm. No patient had findings of dysplasia, carcinoma, or DNA aneuploidy. None of the four remaining patients had developed dysplasia or carcinoma at the time of the latest regular rigid sigmoidoscopy. The risk of malignant transformation in this selected group of patients with ulcerative colitis operated upon with colectomy and IRA derived from an epidemiologically defined population seems to be low. 
Is erythrokeratoderma one disorder? A clinical and ultrastructural study of two siblings. Two sisters with erythrokeratoderma are described. In the younger sister the clinical appearance corresponded to erythrokeratoderma variabilis (EKV), whereas in the older sister it corresponded to progressive symmetrical erythrokeratoderma (PSEK). Ultrastructural findings in both cases were identical. We suggest that EKV and PSEK are different manifestations of a single condition. 
Oral contraceptives increase insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 concentration in women with polycystic ovarian disease. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) stimulates ovarian androgen production. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) inhibits IGF actions in vitro. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of oral contraceptive (OC) pills, given for 3 months, on serum gonadotropin, androgen, IGF-I, and IGFBP-1 concentrations, and glucose tolerance in seven women with polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD) and in five healthy control subjects. PATIENTS: Seven women with PCOD and five healthy control subjects. INTERVENTIONS: An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was performed before and after treatment with OC. RESULTS: After treatment with OC, serum luteinizing hormone, androstenedione, and free testosterone levels decreased, and sex hormone-binding globulin concentration increased in the women with PCOD as well as in the control subjects. The cumulative response of serum insulin to OGTT was larger in the women with PCOD than in the control subjects both before and after treatment. Serum IGF-I concentration, which was unchanged during OGTT, decreased from basal level of 326 +/- 70 micrograms/L to 199 +/- 28 micrograms/L after treatment with OC in the women with PCOD, whereas no change was found in the control subjects (from 235 +/- 11 micrograms/L to 226 +/- 11 micrograms/L). Treatment with OC caused an increase of the mean basal IGFBP-1 concentration from 24 +/- 7 micrograms/L to 73 +/- 14 micrograms/L in the women with PCOD. This increase was constant during the OGTT. In the control subjects, treatment with OC did not result in any significant change in IGFBP-1 concentrations (from 44 +/- 11 micrograms/L to 61 +/- 9 micrograms/L). CONCLUSION: The combination of decreased total IGF-I concentration and increased IGFBP-1 concentration induced by OC may decrease ovarian androgen production in PCOD. 
Immunohistochemical demonstration of CD23 expression on lymphocytes in rheumatoid synovitis. The leucocyte antigen CD23 is expressed by B lymphocytes following activation by a number of stimuli and functions as an IgE receptor, and in its soluble form, as a putative B cell growth factor. The expression of CD23 on the surface of lymphocytes in paraffin wax sections of synovial biopsy specimens was studied using a novel mouse monoclonal antibody, BU38. Specimens were investigated from nine cases of rheumatoid arthritis, six cases of osteoarthritis, and eight cases of chronic inflammation in articular and non-articular tissues. CD23 was expressed on a high proportion of lymphocytes in all forms of chronic inflammation and was not specific for rheumatoid arthritis. It may be a characteristic feature of any chronic inflammatory response. As CD23 was found on the surface of lymphocytes in many cases of these arthritides, sCD23 in serum or synovial fluid may yet prove a useful marker for the severity of the inflammatory infiltrate. 
Ulcerative colitis in the autotransplanted neovagina. A 33-year-old woman had undergone a radical surgical excision for carcinoma of the vagina at age 11. Vaginal reconstruction using a pedicled transplant of the sigmoid colon was successfully accomplished at age 19. Fourteen years later she developed vaginal bleeding, and a biopsy of the neovagina revealed changes consistent with ulcerative colitis. Within 2 weeks the patient developed bleeding per ano, and a rectal biopsy also revealed changes consistent with ulcerative colitis. Symptoms responded to sulfasalazine. This is believed to be the first case report of ulcerative colitis developing in colonic tissue used for a neovagina. The etiology, natural history, and surveillance of ulcerative colitis in relation to this unique case are reviewed. This case argues against the hypothesis that chronic ulcerative colitis is causally related to direct exposure to alimentary antigens. 
An atrial natriuretic factor analogue at low doses attenuates forearm reflex vasoconstriction to cardiopulmonary receptor deactivation in patients with hypertension. Contrasting data exist about a possible modulation of the autonomic function by atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in human beings, particularly at low, biologically, significant concentrations. We have evaluated that possibility by increasing plasma ANF levels through the infusion of a synthetic analogue (WY-47,663, anaritide) in five male patients with mild to moderate uncomplicated hypertension. Nonhypotensive lower body negative pressure (-10 mm Hg x 5 min) was used to selectively deactivate cardiopulmonary receptors and to stimulate sympathetic efferent tone reflexogenically. ANF was given at either a low rate (0.005 micrograms/kg/min x 60 min, which was previously shown to increase plasma ANF in a range compatible with physiologic stimuli) or at a high rate (0.05 micrograms/kg/min x 60 min, each). Administration of ANF was preceded and followed by vehicle infusion (Haemacell x 30 min). Forearm blood flow (venous plethysmography), intraarterial blood pressure, and heart rate were monitored continuously, and venous immunoreactive ANF, plasma renin activity, aldosterone level, and venous hematocrit were measured at the end of both control and infusion periods. Arterial norepinephrine values, an indirect index of sympathetic discharge, were measured at rest and during lower body negative pressure conditions. Graded systemic ANF infusion increased immunoreactive ANF and venous hematocrit, decreased aldosterone level and plasma renin activity, whereas resting norepinephrine levels, blood pressure, and heart rate did not change. Lower body negative pressure decreased forearm blood flow during vehicle infusion, but it lost its vasoconstrictor effect during infusion of ANF. To identify the site of that inhibitory action, ANF was also infused into the brachial artery at rates that raised local but not systemic levels of immunoreactive ANF. 
Immunological evidence for the co-existence of the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome and myasthenia gravis in two patients. Two patients are described in whom a clinical and electromyographic diagnosis of the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) was made. Serum antibodies to voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs), the antigenic target in LEMS and to acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), the antigen in myasthenia gravis, were detected at raised titres in both cases, using radioimmunoassays based on 125I-omega-Conotoxin labelled VGCCs and 125I-alpha-Bungarotoxin labelled AChRs. These data provide immunological evidence for the coexistence of the two disorders in these patients. 
Fine-needle aspiration biopsy: application to pediatric head and neck masses. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy cytology is widely used to screen masses in adults. The authors present a series of 89 fine-needle aspiration biopsies performed between January 1973 and December 1988 on 86 pediatric patients with clinically significant head and neck masses. All fine-needle aspiration diagnoses were confirmed by subsequent surgical biopsy, autopsy, or clinical follow-up for a minimum of 18 months. Of 21 tumors identified, 19 were malignant. Of the 89 aspirations performed, 67 required no subsequent surgical biopsy. In 11 of these cases, metastatic or recurrent tumor was diagnosed and appropriate therapy instituted. Fifteen of the 89 aspirates revealed previously undiagnosed tumors requiring surgical intervention. One false-negative and two false-positive results were obtained. No radical treatment resulted from the false-positive diagnoses, and no patient delay in treatment occurred because of the false-negative result. The sensitivity was 94.4%, and the specificity was 97.1%. The usefulness and cost-effectiveness of fine-needle aspiration is stressed. 
Orthotopic cardiac transplantation in two patients with previous malignancy. This report presents 2 patients with previous malignancy in whom congestive cardiomyopathy developed secondary to doxorubicin toxicity. Both patients underwent orthotopic cardiac transplantation 3 and 5 years ago and are now in functional class I with no evidence of malignant recurrence. 
Priapism as a manifestation of isolated genital vasculitis. Vasculitis may affect virtually any organ system in the body. We describe a patient who presented with priapism due to isolated genital vasculitis. This responded promptly to oral corticosteroids. In patients presenting with priapism, a possible underlying vasculitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis; the treatment for this may be nonsurgical. 
Acute and chronic symptoms of mononucleosis. BACKGROUND. The clinical symptoms and durations of illness of patients with infectious mononucleosis (IM) are variable and are poorly documented in the scientific literature. METHODS. Patients who presented for care at the Student Health Service of a Canadian university between September 1985 and May 1988 and had been diagnosed as having IM were surveyed. Health experience during the acute and convalescent phases of IM was compared with that of a group of patients matched for age, sex, date of diagnosis, and year of study, who had suffered acute upper respiratory tract infections (URI), other than Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced, during the same period. RESULTS. Students were sicker for longer after IM than after non-EBV-induced URI. During the acute phase of illness, the symptoms of fatigue (P = less than .000001), night sweats (P = .000001), and painful neck swelling (P = .00003) were seen significantly more often in the IM group. The severity and duration of these symptoms were also significantly worse in IM patients. Getting tired easily (P = .002), diurnal somnolence (P = .002), and depression (P = .002) were significantly more common postacute symptoms. Eleven percent of IM patients reported persistence of symptoms longer than 100 days, and in 6% of patients the symptoms had persisted after 1 year. Convalescent cases showed a trend toward reduced alcohol intake and, perhaps, reduced alcohol tolerance. CONCLUSIONS. IM involves excessive morbidity in a student community compared with URI that was other than EBV-induced, during both the acute and the postacute phases of infection. 
Dynamic exercise-induced elevation in plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide in patients with effort angina pectoris. We investigated the relationship between plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) levels and hemodynamic indices during dynamic exercise testing in 15 patients with effort angina pectoris. Patients exercised on an angina-limited, supine, multistage bicycle ergometer, and plasma ANP levels and hemodynamic indices were measured at rest, at peak exercise, and 6 minutes after exercise. Plasma ANP levels increased significantly at peak exercise. Pulmonary artery wedge pressure (PAWP) and coronary sinus blood flow (CSBF) were significantly correlated with plasma ANP levels before and at peak exercise (PAWP: r = 0.69, p less than 0.001; CSBF; r = 0.45, p less than 0.05). In six of eight patients whose PAWP exceeded 20 mm Hg at peak exercise, plasma ANP levels were increased at 6 minutes after exercise, whereas PAWP had decreased relative to the values obtained at peak exercise. Plasma ANP concentrations at 6 minutes after exercise were not correlated with PAWP at the same time. However, PAWP at peak exercise was correlated with the plasma ANP levels at 6 minutes after exercise (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001). These results suggest that in patients with effort angina pectoris left ventricular dysfunction resulting from exercise-induced myocardial ischemia may increase preload excessively and may contribute to the excess secretion of ANP after dynamic exercise. 
Acute appendicitis in patients with AIDS/HIV infection. Nine patients known to have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and/or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and operated on for acute appendicitis are presented. Six of the nine patients did not have an elevation in the white blood cell count preoperatively. Two patients underwent diagnostic laparoscopy prior to exploration. In four cases, a perforated appendix was removed. Seven patients had persistent postoperative fever, while all nine had a significant lack of leukocytosis after surgery. Other than the absence of a preoperative increase in white blood cell count, the presenting characteristics of this group were similar to those expected in immunocompetent patients. However, concern for a possible opportunistic infection etiology and a desire to avoid operating on these patients resulted in an undue delay prior to exploration. The use of diagnostic laparoscopy aided in earlier and more accurate diagnosis. Despite persistent postoperative fever, appendectomy was performed in patients with AIDS/HIV infection without significant increase in morbidity and mortality. 
Changes in hypertension treatment and in congestive heart failure mortality in the United States. The use of antihypertensive agents has increased in recent years and has been more marked among individuals in older age groups (65-74 years) than in middle-aged groups (45-54 years). Because hypertension is a strong risk factor for the development of congestive heart failure, more common use of antihypertensive agents would be expected to reduce the incidence of congestive heart failure. Examination of the national death statistics reveals decreases in congestive heart failure mortality at younger ages with mortality increases at older ages. The reasons for these divergent trends in congestive heart failure mortality in different ages and the apparent inconsistency with respect to the changes in the use of antihypertensive drugs are explored. We speculate that antihypertensive treatment does not completely prevent congestive heart failure but merely postpones its development by several decades. 
Causes of death in patients with tuberous sclerosis. Of the 355 patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) examined at the Mayo Clinic, 49 had died (9 of causes other than TSC). We attempted to determine what pattern of organ involvement occurred most often in the 40 patients who died of TSC. One baby died of cardiac failure due to cardiac rhabdomyomas, and one child died of rupture of an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. Eleven patients died of renal disease, which was the commonest cause of death. Ten patients died as a result of brain tumors, and four patients (who were 40 years of age or older) died of lymphangiomyomatosis of the lung. Thirteen patients with severe mental handicaps died of either status epilepticus or bronchopneumonia; in all but one of these patients, the only source of information was the death certificate. Survival curves show a decreased survival for patients with TSC in comparison with that for the general population. Patients with TSC need lifelong follow-up for early detection of potentially life-threatening complications. 
Sigmoid sinus thrombosis diagnosis by contrasted MRI scanning. Septic thrombosis of the transverse-sigmoid sinuses and the jugular bulb is a highly lethal condition. The presenting signs and symptoms of this disease entity are subtle and not in proportion to the magnitude of the problem. Later in the disease course, sudden fulminant findings appear. A high index of suspicion, combined with scanning techniques of either enhanced MRI or CT, allows prompt diagnosis and treatment. MRI enhanced with gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) is a valuable adjunct that confirms the diagnosis and delineates the extent of suspected pathology. 
Coarctation and hypoplasia of the aortic arch: will the arch grow? Hypoplasia of the transverse aortic arch of various degrees of severity is commonly seen in infants who have coarctation of the aorta. It is more often present when the coarctation is associated with intracardiac lesions that diminish or limit forward flow in the ascending aorta and promote right to left flow through an arterial duct. The increased frequency of surgical treatment of infants with complex coarctation, which is in part related to the ability to stabilize their condition with prostaglandin E1, has posed the question of the potential for growth and development of the originally hypoplastic aortic arch after conventional repair of aortic coarctation. Review of our experience with transverse aortic arch hypoplasia, found in 33 (32%) of 102 infants undergoing coarctation repair by subclavian flap aortoplasty or classic resection and end-to-end anastomosis, revealed excellent growth of the transverse arch after repair in all patients available for linear follow-up. The currently proposed extended arch repair should be reserved for the small group of infants with transverse aortic arch to ascending aorta diameter ratios (arch indices) of less than 0.25. 
Mechanism of augmented left atrial pump function in myocardial infarction and essential hypertension evaluated by left atrial pressure-dimension relation. To analyze left atrial (LA) pump function in normal subjects, in patients with essential hypertension and in patients with a healed myocardial infarction, LA dimension (aortic-root echogram) and pressure (catheter-tip manometer) were simultaneously recorded in 25 patients (8 normal subjects, 7 with hypertension and 10 with myocardial infarction). The pressure-dimension relation of the left atrium was composed of 2 loops: the A loop (expressing the pump function of the left atrium) and the V loop. LA dimension at the beginning of active LA shortening was significantly greater in hypertensive subjects (33 +/- 3 mm) and in those with myocardial infarction (32 +/- 4 mm) than in normal subjects (28 +/- 3 mm) (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.05, respectively). The area of the A loop significantly increased in subjects with hypertension (48 +/- 3 mm Hg.mm, p less than 0.01) and in subjects with myocardial infarction (29 +/- 10 mm Hg.mm, p less than 0.05), compared with normal subjects (20 +/- 8 mm Hg.mm). The mean fractional shortening velocity of the left atrium significantly increased in subjects with hypertension, compared with normal subjects and those with myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05 for both). LA peak wall tension during the LA active contraction period significantly increased with hypertension and with myocardial infarction, compared with normal subjects (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.05, respectively). The area of the A loop was directly proportional to the LA dimension at the beginning of active LA shortening (r = 0.53), p less than 0.01). 
Observation of spinal canal and cisternae with the newly developed small-diameter, flexible fiberscopes. Small-diameter (0.5-, 0.9-, and 1.4-mm) flexible fiberscopes were developed for visual diagnosis of spinal canal diseases. The fiberscopes were introduced via a Tuohy needle into the subarachnoid and epidural spaces of ten patients with various pain syndromes. Clear visualization of the subarachnoid space was achieved using the fiberscopes. The epidural space could be visualized only during withdrawal of the fiberscope. In five cases, the fiberscope could be advanced up to the level of the cisternae without causing the patient any discomfort. A slight headache and transient fever were noted after the examination in five and two cases, respectively, but no other complications occurred. Interestingly, preexisting pain diminished (two cases) or disappeared (one case) after the myeloscopy in three of five cases in which the myeloscopy revealed aseptic adhesive arachnoiditis. Further studies should be carried out to evaluate the usefulness of this technique. 
Thickening at the root of the superior mesenteric artery on sonography: evidence of vascular involvement in patients with cancer of the pancreas. Thickening of the root of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) was studied by using preoperative sonography in 23 patients with pancreatic cancer and in 10 healthy control subjects. Of the 23 with cancer, 11 had neoplastic involvement of the SMA and 12 did not. Prominent thickening of the area around the SMA with (six patients) or without (five patients) decreased echogenicity compared with the adjacent retropancreatic connective tissue was observed in patients with involvement of the SMA, a finding called the "cuff sign." Mean thickness of the periarterial area in the cancer patients with and without involvement of the SMA and in control subjects were 8.5 mm, 4.0 mm, and 2.9 mm, respectively. With an upper limit of normal of 7.0 mm for the thickness of the SMA, the sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy of this sign in the evaluation of involvement of the SMA were 91%, 100%, and 96%, respectively. Decreased echogenicity of the periarterial area was not observed in patients without involvement of the SMA or in control subjects. Our results show that sonographic evidence of periarterial thickening of the root of the SMA (cuff sign), especially with decreased echogenicity, is a reliable finding of tumor infiltration of the SMA in patients with pancreatic carcinoma. 
Masseter muscle spasm in children: implications of continuing the triggering anesthetic. This retrospective study was undertaken to examine the management and outcome of children who developed isolated masseter muscle spasm (MMS) after the administration of intravenous succinylcholine during anesthetic induction. The inhalation anesthetics used for induction were continued in all of these cases. The medical records of 68 patients (male/female ratio, 1.7:1), identified from approximately 42,000 anesthetics given during the period 1980-1989, were reviewed. Fifty-seven children (2.3-12 yr old) were diagnosed as having isolated MMS, i.e., MMS without spasm of other muscles; 11 experienced generalized rigidity in combination with MMS. Anesthetic and postoperative management of these two groups differed. The overall incidence of MMS was 0.3% of inhalation anesthetics during which succinylcholine was given. Intraoperative arrhythmias occurred in 33% of the patients who developed isolated MMS and more frequently in older children. Most children experienced some degree of hypercarbia and/or metabolic acidosis, but the significance of these abnormalities in the spontaneously ventilating, fasting child is unknown. Serum creatine kinase levels when measured 18-24 h postoperatively were elevated in all but one child (n = 45). There was no long-term morbidity and no mortality. We conclude that failure of the masseter muscles to relax after succinylcholine is not uncommon in children. Based on our experience, and accepting that MMS may be part of the clinical spectrum of malignant hyperthermia, we believe that anesthesia can be continued safely in cases of isolated MMS when careful monitoring accompanies diagnostic evaluation. This differs from the current practice of discontinuing the anesthetic or switching to a nontriggering anesthetic technique. 
Hemisphere asymmetry in decision making abilities. An experimental study in unilateral brain damage. Thirty control subjects and 60 unilateral brain-damaged patients, 30 with left hemisphere (LH) damage and 30 with right hemisphere (RH) disease, underwent a disjunctive 4-choice reaction time study. Speed of reaction (as defined by the reciprocal of reaction time (RT), movement time (MT) and total response time (TRT] and accuracy of response (as represented by the sum of errors in selecting the correct response key) were investigated comparatively as a function of side of lesion and of performance on Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices (PM47). In contrast to movement speed (1/MT), reaction speed (1/RT) as well as total response speed (1/TRT) showed a lesion effect independent of side of damage. Conversely, accuracy was differentially impaired, LH damage being associated with a significantly higher number of errors. Speed and accuracy had different relationships with the performance on the PM47 in the two hemisphere groups. Speed was affected in parallel with changes in PM47 performance both in the LH and in RH groups, whereas accuracy was altered only in LH patients. It was concluded that speed of motor reaction is affected by unilateral brain lesions irrespective of their side, whereas decision making processes, as expressed by accuracy of response, seem to be specifically impaired by LH damage. 
Cisplatin and etoposide as first-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast carcinoma: a prospective randomized trial of the Italian Oncology Group for Clinical Research. In this prospective randomized study, first-line treatment with the combination of cisplatin (P) and etoposide (E) was compared with the standard cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) combination in 140 patients. Complete remissions were obtained in 11% of 65 assessable patients on CMF and in 12% of 65 assessable patients on PE. Complete plus partial remission rates were 48% on CMF and 63% on PE (P = .08). Time to progression (median, 32 v 31 weeks), duration of response (48 v 39 weeks), and survival (75 v 76 weeks) were not different. Hematologic toxicity was significantly higher with PE, and gastrointestinal side effects were frequent with this treatment. This study demonstrated that the PE combination is effective as front-line chemotherapy. As far as response rate is concerned, a trend of superiority over CMF was observed, which was of borderline significance. Due to the lack of survival advantage and to toxicity, this combination is not recommended for routine clinical use. However, its high level of activity should be taken into account for further research. 
Idiopathic colonic perforation in the neonate. We describe a premature infant in whom spontaneous perforation of the colon was initially detected on routine abdominal films. There was no clinical evidence of necrotizing enterocolitis, peritonitis, or bowel obstruction. Surgical and pathologic findings confirmed the diagnosis of idiopathic bowel perforation. Since spontaneous gastrointestinal perforation in the neonate is often difficult to diagnose clinically, radiographic evaluation may allow earlier diagnosis and prompt surgical treatment of this life-threatening condition. 
Prognostic factors and complication rates for cervical cerclage: a review of 482 cases. Charts from 482 singleton pregnancies undergoing cerclage placement in patients over a 6-year period were reviewed. Cervical dilatation at time of surgery, number of previous spontaneous losses, and gestational age at placement were key determinants of outcome. The most frequent complication, premature rupture of the membranes, ultimately occurred in 38% of patients. The 6.6% infection rate was increased in patients undergoing emergent versus elective surgery (12.7% vs 4.7%, p less than 0.005) and in patients at increased dilatation at time of surgery (5.7% for less than or equal to 2 cm vs 41.7% for greater than 2 cm, p less than 0.005). McDonald and Shirodkar procedures had similar obstetric outcomes in patients undergoing their first cerclage. The subgroup of patients with prior cerclage surgery showed improved birth weight when the Shirodkar procedure was performed instead of the McDonald cerclage (mean birth weight 3020 vs 2470 gm, p less than 0.005). An increased rate of primary cesarean section was found in the Shirodkar group (31% vs 17%, p less than 0.005). Complication rates and pregnancy outcome appear to reflect cervical dilatation more than gestational age at time of surgery. 
Extraspinal causes of lumbosacral radiculopathy. Twelve of 12,125 patients who had been referred during a seven-year period to a specialist in spinal disorders were found to have an extraspinal cause of radiculopathy or neuropathy of the lower extremity. The records of these twelve patients were reviewed retrospectively. The average age of the twelve patients was sixty-five years (range, forty-two to seventy-seven years). The cause of the symptoms was an occult malignant tumor in nine patients and a hematoma, an aneurysm of the obturator artery, or a neurilemoma of the sciatic nerve in the others. The average time from the onset of symptoms to the final diagnosis was eight months (range, one month to two years). The most useful test for determination of the correct diagnosis was computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen and pelvis. Computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the spine and bone-scanning of the whole body were of little help in localizing the disease. In four of the twelve patients, an operation was performed on the basis of an incorrect diagnosis. In dealing with elderly patients who have radiculopathy, one should be suspicious that the cause is outside the spine. 
Hepatotoxicity of rifampin and isoniazid. Is it all drug-induced hepatitis? Serologic markers for hepatitis viruses were studied in 40 children who developed acute hepatitis during antituberculosis therapy with rifampin and isoniazid, with the aim of assessing the contributory role of these viruses toward producing hepatic injury. Hepatitis A and B were confirmed in 7.5 and 35% patients, respectively, by IgM antibodies. Epidemiologic evidence suggested the possibility of non-A, non-B hepatitis in at least a few of the remaining 23 children. Hepatitis B was seen more often in children with severe tubercular disease (72%) and was largely (92.8%) parenterally transmitted. The study highlights that the endemicity of viral hepatitis in developing countries, among other factors, could also be responsible for the reported higher incidence of hepatotoxicity from developing countries and also for the increased risk of hepatotoxicity seen in severe tubercular disease. 
Hyperemesis gravidarum. A comparison of single and multiple admissions. Recurrent hyperemesis gravidarum is a frustrating and poorly studied complication of early pregnancy. Between 1979 and 1987, 140 women with emesis severe enough to require parenteral fluid and electrolyte replacement were admitted to the Medical University of South Carolina Hospital, Charleston, on 220 occasions. Thirty-nine of the 140 women were admitted on multiple occasions. A comparison of clinical characteristics of women with single and multiple admissions revealed no significant differences except that women admitted repeatedly for hyperemesis gravidarum were more likely to be nulliparous (P less than .05). Ptyalism (59% vs. 9%) and persistent vomiting for greater than 24 hours after admission (69% vs. 23%) were significantly more common among women who were admitted repeatedly (P less than .05). Despite published reports that hyperemesis gravidarum has no impact on ultimate perinatal outcome, this study indicated that women admitted repeatedly have a more severe nutritional disturbance, associated with significantly reduced maternal weight gain and neonatal birth weight. These risks argue for more aggressive antenatal treatment and increased fetal surveillance in pregnancies complicated by recurrent hyperemesis gravidarum. 
Vancomycin added to empirical combination antibiotic therapy for fever in granulocytopenic cancer patients. European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) International Antimicrobial Therapy Cooperative Group and the National Cancer Institute of Canada-Clinical Trials Group [published erratum appears in J Infect Dis 1991 Oct;164(4):832] A total of 747 febrile granulocytopenic patients with cancer were randomized to receive ceftazidime plus amikacin (CA) with or without vancomycin (V) as initial empirical therapy. Single gram-positive bacteremias responded in 29 (43%) of 68 patients treated with CA and in 48 (72%) of 67 treated with CAV (P = .001). For single gram-negative bacteremias and clinically documented and possible infections the response rates of CA and CAV were 80% and 63% (P = .17), 55% and 75% (P = .009), and 74% and 81% (P = .16), respectively. However, for patients with gram-positive bacteremia and for all other patients, there were no differences by treatment regimens in the proportion of febrile patients on each trial day (P = .85, P = .82, respectively) or in the duration of fever (P = .22, P = .93, respectively). Moreover, no patient with gram-positive bacteremia died during the first 3 days of true empirical therapy. Antibiotic-associated nephrotoxicity was more frequent in patients treated with vancomycin (6% vs. 2%, P = .02). These results do not support the empirical addition of vancomycin to initial antibiotic therapy in cancer patients with fever and granulocytopenia. 
The conversion of primaquine into primaquine-aldehyde, primaquine-alcohol, and carboxyprimaquine, a major plasma metabolite. Although efficacy and toxicity of primaquine (PQ) depend on bioconversion, the process is poorly understood, even for carboxyprimaquine (CPQ), the major plasma metabolite. Earlier work to clarify drug metabolism showed that PQ could be converted quantitatively into CPQ, in vitro, with human erythroleukemic K562 cells or nonleukemic bone marrow supplemented with calf serum. We have now found--using systems with serum only, as well as with K562, bone marrow, and adult or embryonic liver cells--that the bioconversion of the side chain of PQ involves a branched pathway with at least three separate enzymes and two derivatives other than CPQ. An oxidase activity in serum converted PQ first into a novel side chain aldehyde (Y). Aldehyde dehydrogenase transformed PQ-aldehyde into CPQ in cell-free systems and in K562, bone marrow, and adult liver cells. Embryonic hepatocytes or bone marrow treated with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea did not produce CPQ; instead, they made a metabolite (Xc) that we could synthetize via PQ-aldehyde and identify as PQ-alcohol. PQ-alcohol replaced CPQ as the final product whenever alcohol-dehydrogenase prevailed over aldehyde dehydrogenase. These enzymes operated in intact cells and controlled the biotransformation of PQ absolutely. Unless both dehydrogenase were absent, inhibited, or deprived of coenzyme, potentially cytotoxic PQ-aldehyde intermediate did not accumulate. Some of the unique tissues schizonticidal and gametocidal effects of PQ may depend on the distribution pattern and relative activities of PQ oxidase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, and alcohol dehydrogenase in human subjects and in parasites. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver causing biliary obstruction. Treatment by biliary stenting with 5-year follow-up. Inflammatory pseudotumors of the liver are rare lesions that are becoming increasingly recognized, possibly because of frequent use of abdominal computed tomography (CT) and ultrasonography. Most previously reported cases have been treated by hepatic resection. For this reason, we describe a patient with obstructive jaundice secondary to an inflammatory hepatic pseudotumor in the porta hepatis. Bilateral internal biliary stents were inserted, and the patient remains well 5 years later. The clinicopathologic features of inflammatory pseudotumors of the liver are described, as are the implications of accurate diagnosis. There have been no previous reports of biliary stenting in management of inflammatory hepatic pseudotumors. 
Syncope and orthostatic hypotension. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the postural blood pressure response over time, the prevalence of orthostatic hypotension in patients with syncope, and the relationship of orthostatic hypotension to recurrence of symptoms. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We prospectively evaluated 223 patients with syncope in a standardized manner. Orthostatic responses were measured in a standardized fashion at 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 10 minutes or until symptoms occurred. Follow-up was obtained at 3-month intervals. Causes of syncope were assigned by predetermined criteria. RESULTS: Orthostatic hypotension (20 mm Hg or greater systolic blood pressure decline) was found in 69 patients (31%). The median time to reach minimal standing systolic blood pressure was 1 minute for all subjects. In patients with orthostatic hypotension (20 mm Hg or greater), mean time to reach minimum blood pressure was 2.4 minutes. The vast majority of patients with significant orthostatic hypotension had this finding within 2 minutes of standing. Orthostatic hypotension was common in patients for whom other probable causes of syncope were assigned. The recurrence of syncope was not related to the degree of orthostatic hypotension; however, the recurrence of dizziness and syncope as end-points was lower in patients with 20 mm Hg or greater systolic blood pressure reductions as compared with patients with lesser degrees of orthostatic blood pressure declines. CONCLUSION: Orthostatic hypotension is common in patients with syncope and is detected in the vast majority of patients by 2 minutes. Although symptom recurrence on follow-up was lower in patients with more severe orthostatic hypotension, the clinical significance of this finding needs to be further defined by future studies. 
A meta-analysis of prophylactic antibiotics in head and neck surgery. Although it is generally agreed that prophylactic antibiotics are necessary for the prevention of postoperative wound infection, the choice of antibiotic regimen is controversial. In an attempt to determine the most effective antibiotic regimen, a meta-analysis of published clinical trials of prophylactic antibiotics for head and neck surgery was undertaken. The meta-analysis revealed a relative difference in infection rates of 43.7 percent in favor of the use of antibiotics versus placebo, of 8.3 percent in favor of multiple antibiotics versus a single antibiotic, of 13.7 percent in favor of multiple antibiotics versus cefazolin, and of 4.1 percent in favor of multiple-day prophylaxis versus single-day prophylaxis. This meta-analysis suggests that a 1-day course of clindamycin may be the most effective prophylactic antibiotic regimen for head and neck surgery. 
Ossifying fibromyxoid tumor of soft parts. Additional observations of a distinctive soft tissue tumor. The author studied four subcutaneous soft tissue tumors, similar to those recently described by Enzinger and associates (Am J Surg Pathol 1989;13:817) by the name "ossifying fibromyxoid tumor," by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to further understand the cellular nature of this lesion. The four tumors were composed of uniform round cells often surrounded by a lacunar space. The tumors often contained a peripheral zone of metaplastic bone. The cellularity was high, but the mitotic rate was low, suggesting a benign or borderline nature of the lesion. Longer follow-up was available for three cases, showing recurrence-free survival times of 11, 8, and 3 years. Immunohistochemistry studies revealed that all tumors were strongly positive for S-100 protein and focally positive for Leu-7, whereas melanoma-specific marker HMB45 was negative. Vimentin was the main type of intermediate filament protein, and one case also contained scattered glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. Epithelial markers (keratins, epithelial membrane antigen), desmin, and muscle actins were negative. Electron microscopic examination showed partial, sometimes reduplicated, basal lamina surrounding many cells. Complex cell processes were also present. No myofilaments were found. The immunohistochemical and electron microscopic results may suggest that this tumor has Schwann's cell differentiation. 
Mucosal vascular stasis precedes loss of viability of endothelial cells in rat acetic acid colitis. The hypothesis that a significant reduction in colonic mucosal perfusion, and hence ischemic injury, precedes the development of mucosal ulceration and inflammation is tested in this report. The microcirculatory changes in the rat colonic mucosa within 1 hr of topical exposure to 10% acetic acid were assessed. Colonic mucosal blood flow signals measured by laser Doppler flowmetry were significantly reduced to 61 +/- 8, 52 +/- 10, and 37 +/- 13% (mean +/- SEM) of baseline values at 1 min, 4 min, and 10 min after the colonic mucosa was exposed to 10% acetic acid, respectively, but not in controls exposed to saline. After the start of application of 10% acetic acid (for 4 min), in vivo microscopy studies demonstrated that colonic mucosal ischemia (stasis of the red blood cells in the mucosal capillaries) occurred at 9 +/- 5 min (mean +/- SEM). Evidence of endothelial cell death (failure to exclude a fluorescent dye, propidium iodide, by endothelial cells) developed at 25 +/- 10 min (mean +/- SEM). These findings indicate that within minutes after contact of the colonic mucosa with 10% acetic acid, colonic mucosal ischemia develops, followed shortly by death of endothelial cells. The data do not establish a cause-and-effect relationship between the reductions in mucosal blood flow and loss of endothelial cell viability in response to acetic acid. Nevertheless, because these events occur at such an early time point, they may play a pathogenetic role in the development of the subsequent inflammatory and ulcerative changes in this animal model of colitis. Further studies to define the potential causal relationships between these parameters are warranted. 
Sufentanil citrate and morphine/bupivacaine as alternative agents in chronic epidural infusions for intractable non-cancer pain. Intraspinal narcotic (usually intrathecal morphine) infusions with implanted pumps are increasingly used in patients with intractable chronic pain not caused by cancer. In some patients, pain control is difficult with infusions of morphine. Seven patients with diagnoses of arachnoiditis, epidural scarring, and/or vertebral body compression fracture were treated with alternative solutions in an epidural route. For maximal flexibility, Medtronic implanted programmable infusion pumps with catheters to T6-T10 were used, and pain was monitored by verbal pain scales. In three patients, epidural infusions of morphine in 0.5% bupivacaine (MS-MARC) resulted in little or no pain relief without significant side effects (e.g., headache, nausea, or vomiting). In these same patients, epidural infusions of sufentanil citrate resulted in pain scale reductions of 92%, 82%, and 40%, respectively, with no side effects. Four other patients found more effective pain relief when switched from initial sufentanil citrate infusions to MS-MARC. Pain scale reductions (with no side effects) were 92%, 76%, 59%, and 47% in these patients. Pain relief and minimal side effects with sufentanil citrate is theorized to result from its higher lipophilicity promoting local transdural diffusion to spinal cord and limiting upward diffusion to the brain stem. Sufentanil citrate is also advantageous for programmable pumps because it is 100 times more potent than morphine and therefore allows longer pump refill times and higher infusion doses. Although this study was done on a limited number of patients, sufentanil citrate and MS-MARC in epidural infusions using programmable infusion pumps for non-cancer patients provide significant alternative drug combinations and routes. 
Processing of the precursor of NF-kappa B by the HIV-1 protease during acute infection. Transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) genome is regulated in part by cellular factors and is stimulated by activation of latently infected T cells. T-cell activation also correlates with the induction of the factor NF-kappa B which binds to two adjacent sites in the HIV-1 long terminal repeat. This factor consists of two DNA-binding subunits of relative molecular mass 50,000 (50K) associated with two 65K subunits. It is located in the nucleus in mature B cells, but is present in other cell types as an inactive cytoplasmic complex. External stimuli, including those that activate T cells, result in nuclear translocation of active NF-kappa B. The cloning of the complementary DNA for the 50K subunit helped to identify an exclusively cytoplasmic 105K precursor (p105) (V.B., P.K. and A.I., manuscript submitted). The expression of active NF-kappa B might therefore also be regulated by the extent of processing of p105. Because HIV-1 requires active NF-kappa B for efficient transcription, we tested the effect of HIV-1 infection on the processing of the human 105K precursor. We show here that the HIV-1 protease can process p105 and increases levels of active nuclear NF-kappa B complex. 
Trichinella spiralis infection alters small bowel motor activity in the fed state. The effect of Trichinella spiralis infection on small intestinal transit and motor activity in the fed state during the intestinal phase of infection was studied. Contractions were recorded by strain gauge transducers, and mean transit time was measured by marker dilution technique. The mean amplitude and area of individual phasic contractions decreased, but no change occurred in their mean duration during trichinosis. The total amplitude and area of phasic contractions also decreased; this was caused by a decrease in the frequency of contractions as well as a decrease in the mean parameters. The reduction in the total duration was entirely caused by the decrease in frequency. The reduction in the total parameters of all contractions was the result of a reduction in the same parameters for both propagating and nonpropagating contractions. However, the decrease in the parameters of propagating contractions was much greater. Also, there was a decrease in the distance of propagation of phasic contractions. The transit time as a result of phasic contractions increased during T. spiralis infection. Additionally, T. spiralis infection induced giant migrating contractions in the fed state that were never observed during control. Chyme was propelled very rapidly and effectively by giant migrating contractions. The findings of the present study suggest that during diarrhea induced by T. spiralis infection, the phasic contractions may act to decrease transit and, hence, allow more contact time for absorption of water and nutrients. However, this response may be counter-balanced by giant migrating contractions that rapidly propel chyme into the colon and compound the diarrhea associated with T. spiralis infection. 
Identification of stromal cell precursors in human bone marrow by a novel monoclonal antibody, STRO-1. Murine IgM monoclonal antibody STRO-1 identifies a cell surface antigen expressed by stromal elements in human bone marrow (BM). STRO-1 binds to approximately 10% of BM mononuclear cells, greater than 95% of which are nucleated erythroid precursors, but does not react with committed progenitor cells (colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage [CFU-GM], erythroid bursts [BFU-E], and mixed colonies [CFU-Mix]). Fibroblast colony-forming cells (CFU-F) are present exclusively in the STRO-1+ population. Dual-color cell sorting using STRO-1 in combination with antibody to glycophorin A yields a population approximately 100-fold enriched in CFU-F in the STRO-1+/glycophorin A+ population. When plated under long-term BM culture (LTBMC) conditions, STRO-1+ cells generate adherent cell layers containing multiple stromal cell types, including adipocytes, smooth muscle cells, and fibroblastic elements. STRO-1+ cells isolated from LTBMC at later times retain the capacity to generate adherent layers with a cellular composition identical to that of the parent cultures. The STRO-1-selected adherent layers are able to support the generation of clonogenic cells and mature hematopoietic cells from a population of CD34+ cells highly enriched in so-called long-term culture-initiating cells. We conclude that antibody STRO-1 binds to BM stromal elements with the capacity to transfer the hematopoietic microenvironment in vitro. 
Percutaneous posterolateral lumbar discectomy and decompression with a 6.9-millimeter cannula. Analysis of operative failures and complications. The operative failures and complications of percutaneous posterolateral lumbar discectomy were analyzed in 100 patients who had a herniated nucleus pulposus and were prospectively studied and treated with use of a 6.9-millimeter outer-diameter (4.9-millimeter inner-diameter) sheath and manual insertion of the instruments. Twelve operations were considered to have failed, regardless of the length of postoperative follow-up or the incidence of reinjury; eleven patients had a repeat operation at the index level, and one patient was a chronic drug-abuser. In eight of the eleven patients, subsequent laminectomy was successful. Two patients had a psoas hematoma and one had a transitory sensory and distal motor deficit; all of these complications resolved without sequelae. There were no major complications, including superficial or deep infection, and no patient had neurovascular compromise. 
Obesity in minority populations: policy implications of research. Obesity is a major health problem for many Americans, with an overall prevalence for adults of approximately 25% and a range for specific subgroups of 24-75%. This range is striking and reflects many factors shown to influence the development and maintenance of obesity, including physical activity, diet, ethnicity, income, education, and genetic susceptibility. Many minority populations have higher prevalences of obesity and, thus, experience its adverse health consequences disproportionately. Research in diverse populations indicates that the relative importance of risk factors for cardiovascular disease varies in many populations. Data characterizing the profile of risk factors, including obesity and physical activity, for various special populations are limited and some, such as obesity, are based on standards developed in the general population. For public health policy and interventions to succeed, they must address the needs of special populations and of the overall population. This paper discusses some of the relevant broader social and research issues. 
Bioelectrical impedance assay (BIA) of total body composition in alcohol-induced migraine patients. Preliminary report. "Whole body composition" was investigated in 30 people subject to alcohol-induced migraine. The control group was 30 people matched for age, sex, height and weight, who were not subject to migraine and who consumed moderate amounts of alcohol. The following were evaluated: anthropometric data, alcohol intake in grams per day, total body water, fat-free mass, fat mass, and body mass index (kg/m2). Two methods of measurement were used: skin fold thickness evaluation, and bioelectric impedance assay (BIA). BIA is a non-invasive method based on the principle that lean tissues conduct a low frequency alternating current of electricity better than do fatty tissues. Body mass index was increased in the alcohol-induced migraine patients (p less than 0.04), as was fat mass, (p less than 0.03) as evaluated by skin fold measurements. Bioelectric impedance assay demonstrated a slight total body water increase in alcohol-induced migraine patients (p less than 0.07). Possibly, if this total body water increase was reflected at the neuronal level, the bioelectric properties of the migrainous brain may be altered, thus creating a hypothetical link with the phenomenon of spreading depression. 
Detection of alcoholism in hospitalized children and their families The study sought to measure provider recognition of family alcohol-related problems among hospitalized children and to identify characteristics distinguishing "positive" families. The study sample (N = 147) was drawn from admissions to the general pediatric medical service of a metropolitan teaching hospital. Positivity was assessed through parent and patient interviews that included standard alcohol abuse screening instruments. Provider recognition was assessed through record review and physician interview. Of the 22 families screened positive, only one was so identified by the child's attending or resident physician. Positive and "negative" families were similar in most respects, although parents in positive families were more likely to report stress and sleeping problems and adolescents were more likely to report being troubled by a parent's drinking. The similarity of positive and negative families and the low pediatrician recognition rate suggest that alcohol problems are likely to go unnoticed without a conscious screening effort. 
Neonatal detection of generalized resistance to thyroid hormone [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Feb 20;265(7):869] Generalized resistance to thyroid hormone (GRTH) is an inherited disease that is usually suspected when elevated serum thyroid hormone levels are associated with nonsuppressed thyrotropin. Often these test results are obtained because of short stature, decreased intelligence, and/or hyperactivity with learning disability noted in childhood and adolescence, or because of goiter in adulthood. We detected GRTH at birth by analysis of blood obtained during routine neonatal screening. The proposita, born to a mother with GRTH, had a thyrotropin level of 26 mU/L and a corresponding thyroxine concentration of 656 nmol/L (normal, 84 to 232 nmol/L). Administration of thyroid hormone in doses eightfold to 10-fold above replacement levels (liothyronine sodium, 21 micrograms/kg per day, and levothyroxine sodium, 44 micrograms/kg per day) were required to reduce serum thyrotropin to normal levels without induction of hypermetabolism. This case, and the retrospective finding of high thyroxine levels in five newborns subsequently diagnosed as having GRTH, suggest that measurement of thyroxine at birth, in conjunction with thyrotropin, could allow the early detection of GRTH. 
Total hip replacement with cemented, uncemented, and hybrid prostheses. A comparison of clinical and radiographic results at two to four years. One hundred and thirty-one patients who had 144 cemented or uncemented hip prostheses were followed prospectively for two to four years. A cemented or a hybrid prosthesis (consisting of a cemented femoral component and an uncemented acetabular component) was used in men older than seventy years, in women older than sixty years, and in younger patients in whom adequate initial fixation could not be obtained without cement. Uncemented, porous-surfaced implants were used in all other patients. The over-all clinical results were similar for the three groups. For the fifty-two hips that had a cemented prosthesis, the mean total Harris hip rating was 91 points and the score for pain, 42 points; for the twenty-seven hips that had a hybrid prosthesis, 90 and 43 points; and for the sixty-five hips that had an implant allowing ingrowth of bone in both the acetabulum and the femur, 95 and 43 points. Two prosthetic stems that were designed to allow ingrowth of bone had aseptic loosening; one was revised. Pain in the thigh, usually slight and not disabling, occurred at one year in 24 per cent of the patients in whom a femoral component allowing ingrowth had been used; the prevalence of pain then declined. The incidences of migration of the components and of radiolucent lines were greater in the acetabula that had a cemented component than in those that had a cup allowing ingrowth of bone. 
The effect of oral nitroglycerin on portal blood velocity as measured by ultrasonic Doppler. A double blind, placebo controlled study. We studied the effect of oral nitroglycerin on portal blood velocity (PBV) in 20 cirrhotic patients by a double blind, placebo controlled method using noninvasive Doppler sonography. After we obtained baseline Doppler in the fasting state, 0.6 mg nitroglycerin or placebo was given orally and the mean of 3 s averaged mean PBVs was repeated at 5 min intervals for 60 min. Ten patients each received nitroglycerin or placebo. Portal vein flows were antegrade in all. Of the 10 patients receiving nitroglycerin, seven (P = 0.002) showed a greater than 10% fall in the mean PBVs for at least 15 min. Of these seven "responders," five patients had a 10% decrease in mean systemic blood pressure for at least 15 min. None of the "nonresponders" had systemic hypotension. Our study suggests that the PBV-reducing effect of nitroglycerin in cirrhotics may be explained in part by systemic hypotension. 
Twin delivery: influence of the presentation and method of delivery on the second twin. To ascertain the perinatal mortality and morbidity in the second twin as related to its presentation and method of delivery, we reviewed the data on 578 sets of twins delivered from 1980 to 1987 and included 397 sets in whom both twins were greater than or equal to 1000 gm, without lethal anomalies, and in whom the first twin presented as a vertex. The perinatal outcome comparing twin A (all vertex) with twin B (vertex or nonvertex) with cesarean section or vaginal delivery was analyzed. No statistically significant difference in perinatal mortality or morbidity was found in comparing the nonvertex second twin delivered vaginally or by cesarean section. The one perinatal death and significant perinatal morbidity occurred in infants weighing less than 1500 gm or at less than 32 weeks' gestational age. It is concluded that vaginal delivery, irrespective of the position of the second twin, is valid in selected cases as long as fetal weight is greater than 1500 gm and the gestational age is greater than or equal to 32 weeks. 
A phase II evaluation of menogaril in cisplatin-refractory advanced ovarian carcinoma. A collaborative trial of the North Central Cancer Treatment Group and the Mayo Clinic. Forty-one women with advanced, recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinoma (in whom prior chemotherapy with a platinum-based regimen failed) were treated with menogaril 200 mg/m2 intravenously every 4 weeks in a Phase II trial. Partial responses were seen in two of 19 (10.5%) measurable disease patients and three of 12 (25%) nonmeasurable but evaluable patients, an overall objective response rate of 16.1% (95% confidence interval, 5% to 34%). Median time to progression for all patients was 2 months and median survival, 5 months. Toxicities were acceptable and consisted primarily of leukopenia and gastrointestinal toxicity. Twenty-nine percent of the patients had venous irritation or painful phlebitis at the intravenous injection site. Menogaril, as administered in this protocol, had modest antineoplastic activity in previously treated ovarian carcinoma patients. The responses were of short duration, and there appeared to be no survival advantage with menogaril treatment. 
The binding and functional properties of voltage dependent calcium channel receptors in pediatric normal and myelodysplastic bladders. The present study was designed to compare the binding and functional properties of calcium channel receptors in normal and myelodysplastic bladders. Normal bladders were obtained from children with vesicoureteral reflux undergoing ureteral reimplantation. Myelodysplastic bladder specimens were obtained from patients undergoing bladder augmentation. The functional studies included agonist (calcium chloride) dose response experiments and the determination of apparent antagonist dissociation constants for various calcium channel antagonists. The receptor binding studies were performed using the ligand (+)-3H-PN200-110 (specific activity 86.6 Ci./mmol.). The mean maximal response of myelodysplastic bladders to calcium ions was 31% less than normal bladders (p greater than 0.05). The mean EC50 for calcium mediated isometric tension and the mean -log antagonist dissociation constant values of nifedipine, diltiazem and verapamil were similar in normal and myelodysplastic bladders. The radioligand receptor binding studies demonstrated that the equilibrium dissociation constant of (+)-3H-PN200-110 in myelodysplastic bladders was 4-fold greater than in normal bladders. The density of dihydropyridine binding sites in myelodysplastic and normal bladders was similar. Our study demonstrated that the pathophysiology of the poorly compliant hyperreflexic bladder is not related to up regulation of dihydropyridine calcium channel receptors or alterations in the response of detrusor muscle to calcium ions. The relative abundance of calcium channel receptors in the normal and myelodysplastic bladders, and the regulation of detrusor contraction by calcium ions suggest that calcium channel receptors have a meaningful role in detrusor function. 
IgA nephropathy in blacks: studies of IgA2 allotypes and clinical course. The prevalence of IgA nephropathy (IgAN) varies among racial groups, being most common among Caucasians and Orientals and rare in Blacks. Other investigators have hypothesized that the risk for IgAN may be influenced by the IgA2 allotype. It has been suggested that the rare Black patients with IgAN may be homozygous for the A2m(1) allele which predominates in Whites, but is less common in Blacks. In a multicenter study, 27 Black IgAN patients were enrolled to investigate this hypothesis and analyze the clinical course of disease in Blacks. The IgA2 allotypes of 18 Black patients and 14 controls were determined using restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Three patients were homozygous for the A2m(1) allele, four were homozygous for A2m(2) and 11 were heterozygous. The respective allelic frequencies of A2m(1) and A2m(2) were 0.47 and 0.53 and did not differ significantly from Black controls. Most clinical manifestations of disease did not significantly differ with respect to distribution of the two alleles, although the gender ratio differed between the homozygous A2m(1) and heterozygous patients. The presence of the A2m(1) allele did not increase the risk for IgAN, and the presence of the A2m(2) allele or homozygosity for this allele did not protect Blacks from the development of IgAN. 
Coronary artery vasoregulation and left ventricular function in patients with angina pectoris-like pain and normal coronary angiograms. Twenty patients with angina pectoris-like pain, normal coronary angiography and abnormal exercise 201Tl scans were investigated by means of haemodynamic, coronary sinus blood flow and lactate determinations before and after cold provocation, pacing and dipyridamole infusion. Radionuclide angiography, a new exercise 201Tl scan and noninvasive hyperventilation and ergonovine tests were performed. Intracoronary infusions of acetylcholine were given in increasing doses and a second coronary angiogram in combination with a 201Tl scintigram was performed. Despite a previously pathological 201Tl scintigram, with reversible perfusion defects, only ten of the patients had reversible perfusion defects at the second investigation. Hyperventilation and ergonovine tests did not result in ECG signs indicative of coronary spasm. Intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine resulted in a diffuse coronary constriction in 3 of 14 patients, and in one patient a perfusion defect was observed on thallium scintigram. In conclusion, although most of the common methods for inducing coronary vasospasm were used, no consistent pattern of reaction was found to explain the chest pains experienced in this group of patients. 
Erdheim-Chester disease. Case report with autopsy findings. Erdheim-Chester disease is a rare pathologic entity characterized by symmetrical radiodensities in the metaphyseal and the diaphyseal portions of the long bones. Fibrosis, osteoblastic cortical bone deposition, and fibroxanthomatous granulomas with lipid-laden macrophages and multinucleated giant cells, which have a particular tropism for connective and adipose tissues, are the pathologic hallmarks. To our knowledge, 27 cases have been reported in the literature since the entity was first described in 1930. Protean clinical features range from a focal and asymptomatic process to a multisystemic infiltrative disease. We describe the clinical course of a new case and review the extensive pathologic findings at autopsy, including those demonstrated by light and electron microscopy and cytochemical and immunocytochemical studies. 
Comparison of direct insertion of disposable and standard reusable laparoscopic trocars and previous pneumoperitoneum with Veress needle. A randomized prospective study was conducted to evaluate the ease of use and safety of direct insertion of laparoscopic trocars. Comparison of previous pneumoperitoneum by Veress needle insertion with direct insertion of the reusable conventional laparoscopic trocar and direct insertion of the disposable shielded trocar revealed minor complication rates of 22, 6 and 0%, respectively. No major complications occurred in this series of 200 patients. 
Conservative treatment of patients with acoustic tumors. Seventy of 178 patients with acoustic tumors initially were treated conservatively and have been followed up for an average of 26 +/- 2 months. The tumor size was determined by the mean maximum anteroposterior and mediolateral diameters, using computed tomographic or magnetic resonance imaging scans obtained sequentially throughout the follow-up period. The average tumor growth was 1.6 +/- 0.4 mm the 1st year, and 1.9 +/- 1.0 mm the 2nd year (range, -2 to 17 mm/y): 4 tumors showed apparent regression, 28 (40%) had no detectable growth, and 37 (53%) exhibited growth (average, 3.8 +/- 1.2 mm/y). Within individual patients, the tumor growth rate determined during the 1st year of follow-up was predictive of tumor growth rate determined during the following year. Rapid tumor growth or clinical deterioration in 9 of the 70 patients (13%) who initially were treated conservatively necessitated subsequent surgery an average of 14 +/- 5 months after the patient was initially seen. This group had a larger initial tumor size (27.0 +/- 3.4 mm vs. 21.3 +/- 0.9 mm, P less than 0.05), and a faster 1-year growth rate (7.9 +/- 2.3 mm/y vs. 1.3 +/- 0.3 mm/y, P less than 0.05) than the 61 patients who did not require surgery. Two patients, however, experienced neurological deterioration that required surgery, even though there was no tumor growth. The high incidence of acoustic tumors with no detectable growth or apparent spontaneous regression must be taken into account when evaluating the indications for surgery and the efficacy of radiotherapy. 
Superior vena cava syndrome caused by an intrathoracic plasmacytoma. A case of an extramedullary intrathoracic plasmacytoma causing superior vena cava syndrome is described. Review of the literature on intrathoracic plasmacytomas and superior vena cava syndrome revealed that no similar cases have been described to date. The initial presentation, management, and response to treatment are described. 
Effects of left atrial pressure on the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxic ventilation. We investigated the effects of hypoxic ventilation on the pulmonary arterial pressure- (P) flow (Q) relationship in an intact canine preparation. Mean pulmonary P-Q coordinates were obtained during hypoxic ventilation and during ventilation with 100% O2 at normal and at increased left atrial pressure. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that, over a wide range, changes in left atrial pressure would alter the effects of hypoxic ventilation on pulmonary P-Q characteristics. Seven dogs were studied. When left atrial pressure was normal (5 mmHg), the mean value of the extrapolated intercept (PI) of the linear P-Q relationship was 10.9 mmHg and the slope (incremental vascular resistance, IR) of the P-Q relationship was 2.2 mmHg.l-1.min. Hypoxic ventilation increased PI to 18 mmHg (P less than 0.01) but did not affect IR. Subsequently, during ventilation with 100% O2, when left atrial pressure was increased to 14 mmHg by inflation of left atrial balloon, PI increased to 18 mmHg. IR was 1.6 mmHg.l-1.min. Again, hypoxic ventilation caused an isolated change in PI. Hypoxia increased PI from 18 to 28 mmHg (P less than 0.01). As in the condition of normal left atrial pressure, hypoxic ventilation did not affect IR. We conclude that, in an anesthetized intact canine preparation, hypoxic ventilation causes an isolated increase in the extrapolated pressure intercept of the pulmonary P-Q relationship. Furthermore the effects of hypoxic ventilation on pulmonary P-Q characteristics are not affected by the resting left atrial pressure. 
Detection of autoantibodies against myeloid lysosomal enzymes: a useful adjunct to classification of patients with biopsy-proven necrotizing arteritis. PURPOSE: Assessment of the value of determination of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) and its specificities for classification of patients with biopsy-proven necrotizing arteritis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The serum samples of 28 consecutive patients with biopsy-proven vasculitis involving medium- and/or small-sized arteries were tested for ANCA by an indirect immunofluorescence technique, by neutrophil extract enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and by catching ELISA. RESULTS: Eight patients had Churg-Strauss syndrome; six had myeloperoxidase (MPO) antibodies, and in the other two patients, ANCA were not detected. Six patients had polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) limited to the skin and the musculoskeletal system; ANCA were not detected in these patients. Two patients had systemic PAN and both had MPO antibodies. The remaining 12 patients had overlapping clinical features of the different forms of vasculitis. Five patients had polyarteritis in combination with chronic nasal inflammation and glomerulonephritis compatible with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) but without granulomas in the respiratory tract. All five patients had 29-kd serine protease antibodies. Two patients had polyarteritis in combination with nasal polyposis and asthma compatible with Churg-Strauss syndrome, but eosinophilia was not detected. Both patients had MPO antibodies. Three patients with unclassified granulomatous arteritis had either elastase antibodies or ANCA of unknown specificity. One patient with unclassified systemic vasculitis had 29-kd serine protease antibodies, and one patient with necrotizing arteritis of the bowel in combination with Schonlein-Henoch purpura was negative for ANCA. CONCLUSION: Determination of ANCA and its specificities is a useful adjunct to the classification of patients with biopsy-proven necrotizing arteritis. Within the spectrum of idiopathic vasculitides, 29-kd serine protease antibodies are associated with WG, MPO antibodies are associated with Churg-Strauss syndrome and systemic PAN, and PAN limited to the skin and the musculoskeletal system is not associated with ANCA. 
Current status of lung transplantation. Techniques and indications for single and bilateral lung transplantation have evolved significantly in the past several years. Lung transplantation has entered a new era in which transplantation can be achieved with the same degree of success as that achieved with other major organ transplants. Many problems, common to organ transplantation remain to be solved including availability of suitable donor organs, improved immunosuppressive regimens, and the ability to properly diagnose and effectively treat organ rejection. 
Five-year vascular audit from a district hospital. Vascular patients under the care of one surgeon over a 5-year period have been reviewed, from computer-based discharge records, with regard to in-hospital measures of outcome to determine whether or not surgery was being performed to an acceptable standard. Out of 466 procedures, 30 per cent of patients had at least one complication, 14 per cent had further surgery and 9 per cent died. Outcome was examined within the following treatment groups: aorto/iliac aneurysm, aortofemoral bypass, femoroproximal popliteal bypass, femorodistal popliteal bypass, femorocrural bypass, embolectomy and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Patients having below-knee bypass surgery were found to have an unacceptably high rate of complications, reoperations and amputations. An overall rate of reoperation for postoperative bleeding of 5 per cent was also considered to be high. With these exceptions, it was concluded that the surgery was being performed to an acceptable standard, but that comparative audit of this type remained difficult while there was a deficiency of national statistics against which the work of individual surgeons could be judged. 
Clinical characteristics of patients in the persistent vegetative state Little is known concerning the specific clinical characteristics of patients in persistent vegetative states (PVS). Fifty-one patients from four nursing homes, approximately 3% of the total patients, were identified as being in a PVS. The mean age of the patients was 64.8 +/- 3.2 years (range, 19 to 96 years) and the mean duration of the PVS was 3.3 +/- 5.0 years (range, 1 to 16.8 years), with 13 patients' PVS being longer than 5 years. Cerebrovascular accidents and dementia were the most common causes of the PVS, accounting for 32 of the cases (63%). In the younger patients cerebral trauma secondary to motor vehicle accidents was the most common cause. All 51 patients were fed via tube feeding and 35 patients had urinary catheters (75%). All patients were receiving daily medications, with greater than 50% taking daily vitamins. Over 30% were taking digitalis and/or diuretics and over 32% were taking H2 blockers. Transfer of patients to an acute care hospital was not uncommon, with 31 patients (61%) requiring 63 acute care hospitalizations during their stay in the nursing home. As expected, infections were the most common reason for acute care hospitalization, although 15 of the patients were hospitalized for surgical procedures. Another common problem encountered by the patients was pressure sores, with 78% of patients requiring specific therapy for at least one pressure sore. Surprisingly, only 27 (53%) of 51 patients had a specific resuscitation status designation in the medical chart, and neither presence of a chart designation nor specific resuscitation order was related to the patient's age or the cause or duration of PVS. From these data it would appear that clinical characteristics of patients in PVS are variable. Some patients are young, others are old. The cause varies from cerebrovascular accidents to cerebral trauma. Survival may be prolonged; complications are not uncommon, with some patients requiring acute care hospitalization. 
Attenuation of circadian variation by combined antianginal therapy with suppression of morning and evening increases in transient myocardial ischemia. The circadian variation of total ischemic activity was examined during 3289 hours of ambulatory ECG monitoring in 101 patients with stable angina pectoris and proved coronary artery disease, who were not receiving any prophylactic antianginal therapy. The 101 patients displayed 411 episodes of ischemia, 312 (76%) of which were silent; a circadian rhythm was noted for the occurrence of total and silent ischemia. Thirty-eight percent of the ischemic episodes occurred between 6 AM and 12 noon, and total and silent ischemia were significantly more frequent during this period compared with the other three 6-hour periods (p less than 0.01); a lesser peak was noted in the evening. The effects of metoprolol and combined therapy with metoprolol and nifedipine on the circadian variation of ischemic activity were studied in two subgroups of patients in a random, double-blind study design (31 patients receiving metoprolol and 42 receiving combined therapy). During therapy with metoprolol the morning increase in ischemic activity was attenuated, and the highest frequency of ischemia was then noted in the evening (6 AM to 12 noon compared with 6 PM to 12 midnight; p less than 0.05). Combined therapy abolished the morning peak as did metoprolol monotherapy, but even the evening increase in ischemic activity was attenuated (p less than 0.05). The diurnal distribution of the mean heart rate at the onset of ischemia, when patients were off therapy, showed a morning increase similar to the increase in ischemic activity but no second peak in the evening. 
Hereditary lymphedema and distichiasis. Two patients with lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome illustrate that both Milroy's disease and late-onset hereditary lymphedema are sometimes associated with distichiasis. It is important for ophthalmologists to be aware of the lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome because of its ophthalmic manifestations and the associated systemic abnormalities that can be potentially life threatening. 
Management of hypertensive emergencies: changing therapeutic options. Rapid lowering of severe hypertension is essential to prevent irreversible damage to vital organs. The patient's clinical status should be evaluated, noting particularly cardiac, neurologic, and renal functions. Choice of treatment should be based on speed and efficacy of action and on hemodynamic, vascular, and renal consequences. It is also important to preserve circulatory homeostasis and vital organ function. Sodium nitroprusside, labetalol, diazoxide, and hydralazine have been used parenterally for rapid control of severe hypertension, but they do not always produce optimal, balanced hemodynamic effects. Calcium antagonists have been advocated because of their beneficial circulatory effects. Nicardipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, produces significant antihypertensive effects, and when given intravenously, results in a rapid fall in blood pressure. Studies have confirmed that nicardipine is effective and safe in the management of severe hypertension and hypertensive crises. Because the aim of rapidly controlling severe hypertension is to prevent target organ dysfunction, nicardipine therapy offers a useful additional option in the clinical management of severe hypertension and hypertensive crises. 
Preparing children for venous blood sampling. A convenience sample of 100 children, aged 6-12 years, attending Kuwait government hospital laboratories for venous blood sampling was studied. A picture book was used to prepare half of the children for the procedure. Preparation was carried out just prior to sampling and took less than 5 min. The story provided a simple description of venous blood sampling, and why it is carried out; it stressed that the pain is noticeable but not unbearable, and that children will experience less pain if they relax their arm and cooperate with the technician. Prepared children reported significantly less pain, and radial pulse rates confirmed that they were less distressed by the procedure. Observers' and parents' evaluations also indicated that prepared children coped better. Various explanations for the benefits observed are discussed, together with requirements for managing the pain, fear and stress experienced by children during medical treatment. 
Relationship between outlet obstruction constipation and obstructed urinary flow. Ten women with symptoms and radiological features of outlet obstruction constipation underwent urodynamic bladder studies. The results were compared with ten age- and sex-matched controls. The mean (s.e.m.) peak flow rate for patients was 19.4 (6.4) ml/s compared with 32.1 (7.2) ml/s for controls (P less than 0.05). The mean (s.e.m.) voiding time for patients was 62.9 (23.7) s against a corresponding value of 15.6 (6) for controls (P less than 0.05). The mean (s.e.m.) bladder volume in patients was 482 (80) ml compared with a control value of 254 (112) ml (P less than 0.03). The mean (s.e.m.) detrusor pressure during the voiding phase was 53.3 (12) cmH2O. These results demonstrate that patients with outlet obstruction constipation have a generalized pelvic floor disorder resulting in obstructed urinary flow. 
Cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum. A report of three cases. Three cases of peritoneal cystic mesothelioma are reported. All patients were women who had undergone previous abdominal surgery for unrelated conditions. Tumors consisted of solitary and multiple cystic masses involving the abdominal and pelvic peritoneum. The cysts focally infiltrated the muscularis externa of the small intestine in case 1, the outer muscular layer of the uterus in case 2, and the omental tissue in case 3. These findings give morphologic support to the borderline clinical behavior of this tumor that often recurs and support the hypothesis that previous surgery may play a role in its pathogenesis. 
Surgery for chronic ear disease in a non-university hospital: open cavity, obliteration and intact canal wall techniques. The long-term results of surgery for chronic suppurative middle ear disease at a non-university ENT-clinic (Vasa Central Hospital, Finland) are reported. The material consisted of 273 ears, 65 of which had been operated on by open cavity techniques, 178 by the original Palva obliteration method, and 30 by the intact canal wall method. Post-operative cholesteatoma occurred equally frequently with the two canal wall down methods (7.7 and 7.3%, respectively) but was more frequent after intact canal wall surgery (23.3%). Hearing was better and the infection rate lower with obliteration than with open cavity techniques. Post-operative infection was the least frequent and the hearing result best in the intact canal wall ears, but compared to the other two groups the extent of disease found at surgery was considerably less in this group. The obliteration operation proved to be a safe method in the hands of a practising otologist outside university clinics. 
Establishment and characterization of a new human prostatic carcinoma cell line (DuPro-1). A new human prostate adenocarcinoma cell line (DuPro-1) has been established from the athymic nude mouse supported xenograft DU5683. This was accomplished by embedding dispersed xenograft cells in 0.1 by 5.0 cm. spaghetti-like strands of Basement Membrane MATRIGEL [BMM (Collaborative Research, Inc.)], a unique technique facilitating the transition to tissue culture. Now passed over 30 times, the cells display anchorage and serum concentration independent growth with a doubling time of 22 to 24 hours. Cells exhibit pronounced morphological differences when grown on BMM coated culture dishes, assuming a pseudoglandular configuration, in contrast to typical homogeneous monolayer growth on plastic culture dishes. Light and electron microscopy show cohesive sheets of anaplastic epithelial cells, consistent with prostate carcinoma. Karyotypic analysis revealed all human chromosomes, near tetraploidy, 10 to 12 markers, and 3 to 4 X chromosomes, without a Y chromosome. Cells injected s.c. or embedded in BMM and implanted in the subrenal capsule space are equally tumorigenic in male and female athymic mice, suggesting that DuPro-1 cells are hormonally insensitive. Embedding cells in BMM may be useful in developing other tissue culture cell lines from neoplasms difficult to initiate in vitro. DuPro-1 should provide a valuable means to study the biology, immunology, and chemosensitivity of human prostate cancer. 
Induced hypertension during restoration of flow after temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat: effect on neuronal injury and edema. The effect of hypertension instituted during restoration of flow after focal ischemia was studied. After the middle cerebral artery (MCA) of 12 rats was occluded for 2 hours, the ligatures were released and flow was restored for a period of 2 hours. In the control group, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was not manipulated. In the hypertensive group, the MAP was elevated by 25-30 mm Hg immediately after reestablishment of MCA patency. The area of neuronal injury, determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium staining, was significantly smaller in the hypertensive group. Specific gravity, determined by microgravimetry, did not differ between groups. The data demonstrate that modest hypertension, when induced during reperfusion after 2 hours of MCA occlusion, reduces neuronal injury and does not exacerbate edema formation. 
The early management of flap necrosis in breast reconstruction. Flap necrosis is a potential complication of any type of breast reconstruction. Of 302 breast reconstructions performed by the author at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, some degree of flap necrosis occurred in 59 (19.5 percent). Small areas of flap necrosis can be managed with simple observation, but secondary healing may not be complete for months. Early and aggressive excision of the ischemic tissue with immediate primary closure often can achieve rapid primary healing. In addition, early revision and reshaping of the breast may, in selected patients, permit achievement of a significantly better final result. This is true not only for TRAM and latissimus dorsi flaps, but also for the mastectomy flap necrosis sometimes encountered in immediate reconstruction with simple implants or tissue expanders. 
Monthly pulses of vincristine and prednisone prevent bone marrow and testicular relapse in low-risk childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a report of the CCG-161 study by the Childrens Cancer Study Group. On study CCG-161 of the Childrens Cancer Study Group (CCSG), 631 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) at low risk for relapse were randomized to receive monthly pulses of vincristine-prednisone (VCR-PDN ) during maintenance therapy in addition to standard therapy with mercaptopurine (6MP) and methotrexate (MTX), and either cranial irradiation during consolidation or intrathecal (IT) MTX every 3 months during maintenance. All patients received six doses of IT MTX during induction and consolidation. With a minimum follow-up time of 4.25 years, 76.7% receiving VCR-PDN were in continuous complete remission at 5 years, in contrast to 63.9% receiving GMP-MTX alone (P = .002). The difference in relapse-free survival was due primarily to bone marrow relapse (P = .0008), and in boys also to testicular relapse (P = .003). Among the nonirradiated patients, the 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) was 79.4% for patients randomized to the VCR-PDN pulses, in contrast to 61.2% for the patients randomized to receive 6MP-MTX alone (P = .0002). Among the irradiated patients, the DFS was not significantly different. Of the four combinations of maintenance and CNS therapy studied, the highest DFS was achieved with VCR-PDN pulses and maintenance IT MTX. 
Expression of the insulin like growth factor-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) gene is increased in human renal carcinomas. After we had established that the IGFBP-3 gene is expressed in normal human kidney we examined renal adenocarcinoma tissue for alterations of the expression of this gene. For this purpose we prepared poly(A)+ RNA from normal kidney tissue and adjacent renal adenocarcinoma of 18 adult patients and compared the levels of IGFBP-3 mRNA by Northern analysis in both samples. The mean content by densitometry was markedly increased in the carcinoma tissues; in 17 of 18 patients the carcinoma contained significantly more IGFBP-3 mRNA than the normal kidney sample. The highest mRNA levels were found in patients with N2 and N3 lymph node extensions. Comparative Southern analysis of paired samples of four of these patients did not reveal amplification of the gene as the cause of these increased mRNA levels. In one patient, however, we identified a restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) present in normal and malignant cellular DNA. This suggests a participation of the IGFBP-3 gene in the development of human renal cell cancer. 
A difference in mortality between two strains of jaundiced rats. Homozygous Gunn rats lack bilirubin glucuronyltransferase, become jaundiced, and often develop kernicterus, thus providing a model for neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. Two new, inbred rat strains that carry the Gunn mutation are described. These were developed by breeding the mutant Gunn gene (j) into the RHA/N and ACI/N strains, producing the new lines, which were designated RHA/N-j and ACI/N-j. Liver assay confirmed the absence of transferase activity in jaundiced rats from both of the new strains, but marked differences in mortality between the strains were observed. The mortality of jaundiced RHA/N-j rats through 8 weeks was the same as that of their nonjaundiced littermates (20%). In contrast, mortality of jaundiced ACI/N-j rats was distinctly greater than that of their nonjaundiced littermates (81% vs 34%, P less than .001). Signs of kernicterus such as ataxia were much more frequent in jaundiced ACI/N-j rats than in jaundiced RHA/N-j rats (73% vs 11%, P less than .001). Both strains had comparable albumin concentrations through 8 weeks of age. Serum bilirubin concentrations were also comparable, except for a small but significant difference at 20 days of age (ACI/N-j = 294 mumols/L, RHA/N-j = 248 mumols/L, P less than .01). Similarly, the bilirubin-to-albumin ratios were comparable except for a significantly higher ratio at 20 days of age in the ACI/N-j rats (ACI/N-j = 0.70, RHA/N-j = 0.51, P less than .01). Thus, the RHA/N-j strain is unusual in that the jaundiced animals remain healthy. Conversely, the ACI/N-j animals demonstrate a high incidence of kernicterus with mortality. 
Asymptomatic bacterascites: is it spontaneous bacterial peritonitis? Asymptomatic bacterascites is defined as the presence of bacteria in ascitic fluid without clinical features of peritonitis or increased ascitic fluid polymorphonuclear cells. Asymptomatic bacterascites is a controversial entity, and little information is available regarding its spontaneous evolution. Clinical features, bacteriological data and outcome in 22 cirrhotic patients with asymptomatic bacterascites are reported and are compared with those of a group of 36 cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Eleven patients had gram-negative bacteria and 11 had one gram-positive bacteria. Only in three patients (13.6%) did peritonitis develop. Twelve patients received no antibiotic therapy, and in none did peritonitis develop. At 1 month, 27% of patients with asymptomatic bacterascites had died. Patients with asymptomatic bacterascites had less-severe liver disease; they more frequently had gram-positive bacteria in ascitic fluid and had a lower 1-mo mortality rate than did patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. We conclude that asymptomatic bacterascites is usually the transient residence of bacteria in ascitic fluid. Peritonitis rarely develops in patients with asymptomatic bacterascites and, in most of them, antibiotic therapy is not required. 
Fetal hypertension induced by norepinephrine infusion and umbilical artery flow velocity waveforms in fetal sheep. This study was designed to examine the effects of fetal hypertension on the umbilical artery pulsatility index. Fetal arterial blood pressure and umbilical venous pressure were measured in eight sheep, 3 to 5 days after surgery. Umbilical blood flow was measured with an electromagnetic flowmeter around the common umbilical vein. Umbilical artery flow velocity waveforms were obtained either by an indwelling 5 MHz pulsed Doppler device (n = 4) or transcutaneously by a 4 MHz continuous-wave Doppler device (n = 4). Fetal blood pressure was raised by intravenous infusion of norepinephrine 10 micrograms/min during 5 minutes. Norepinephrine infusion resulted in elevated arterial and umbilical venous pressures, accompanied by a bradycardia during the first 3 minutes. Umbilical blood flow, calculated placental vascular resistance, and umbilical artery pulsatility index did not change. After atropine administration, the norepinephrine-induced elevated arterial and umbilical venous pressures were accompanied by tachycardia, increased umbilical blood flow, and no change in placental vascular resistance and umbilical artery pulsatility index. It is concluded that fetal arterial hypertension provoked by norepinephrine infusion has no effect on placental vascular resistance, umbilical blood flow, and umbilical artery pulsatility index. 
Prolactin-producing pituitary carcinoma with pulmonary metastases. Pituitary adenomas rarely are metastatic. Extracranial visceral metastases of prolactinomas were not previously reported. The authors report a case of a 34-year-old man with a prolactin-producing pituitary carcinoma and histologically proven lung metastases. Pathologic examination of the pulmonary spread included electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry; these confirmed prolactin production by the tumor. The patient's presentation at initial diagnosis, disease recurrence, clinical course, management, and response to therapy (with its theoretic basis) are detailed. Despite the use of dopamine analogues (to tolerance and in combination), there was documented intracranial and extracranial disease progression. Possible future therapeutic maneuvers are discussed. 
Renal pelvic explosion during conservative management of upper tract urothelial cancer. Ureteroscopic fulguration of a renal pelvic papillary transitional cell carcinoma is a relatively new and limited procedure. We present a case of intrarenal explosion during ureteroscopic fulguration. 
Cutaneous vasomotor sensitivity to ethanol and acetaldehyde: subtypes of alcohol-flushing response among Chinese. A cutaneous test has been applied in examination of the flushing response to ethanol and acetaldehyde in 402 Chinese of Han ethnicity. Using this noninvasive method, five response subtypes have been observed: (A) fast flushing to both ethanol and acetaldehyde; (B) fast flushing only to ethanol but not to acetaldehyde; (C) slow flushing to ethanol only; (D) no response either to ethanol or to acetaldehyde; (E) vasoconstriction to ethanol, or to both ethanol and acetaldehyde. A total of 94% in subtype (A) are reported to be flushers, while only 25% was reported in subtype (D). Other physiological responses, such as tachycardia, dizziness, headache, drowsiness, and nausea are less frequent after alcohol ingestion. The recent history of consumption of alcohol of the subjects in different subtypes was also obtained. Although alcohol-induced flushing is thought to be a deterrent factor to heavy consumption of alcohol, the frequency of drinking of alcoholic beverages was not found to be different between flushers and nonflushers. 
Parental occupations of children with leukaemia in west Cumbria, north Humberside, and Gateshead OBJECTIVE--To determine whether parental occupations and chemical and other specific exposures are risk factors for childhood leukaemia. DESIGN--Case-control study. Information on parents was obtained by home interview. SETTING--Three areas in north England: Copeland and South Lakeland (west Cumbria); Kingston upon Hull, Beverley, East Yorkshire, and Holderness (north Humberside), and Gateshead. SUBJECTS--109 children aged 0-14 born and diagnosed as having leukaemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in study areas during 1974-88. Two controls matched for sex and date and district of birth were obtained for each child. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Occupations of parents and specific exposure of parents before the children's conception, during gestation, and after birth. Other adults living with the children were included in the postnatal analysis. RESULTS--Few risk factors were identified for mothers, although preconceptional association with the food industry was significantly increased in case mothers (odds ratio 2.56; 95% confidence interval 1.32 to 5.00). Significant associations were found between childhood leukaemia and reported preconceptional exposure of fathers to wood dust (2.73, 1.44 to 5.16), radiation (3.23, 1.36 to 7.72), and benzene (5.81, 1.67 to 26.44); ionising radiation alone gave an odds ratio of 2.35 (0.92 to 6.22). Raised odds ratios were found for paternal exposure during gestation, but no independent postnatal effect was evident. CONCLUSION--These results should be interpreted cautiously because of the small numbers, overlap with another study, and multiple exposure of some parents. It is important to distinguish periods of parental exposures; identified risk factors were almost exclusively restricted to the time before the child's birth. 
L-tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. This report describes three Belgian cases of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of L-tryptophan-containing products. Three women, aged 51, 53 and 73 years, were taking L-tryptophan for 2 months to 2 years, at 500, 1500, and 2250 mg d-1, respectively. All developed disabling myalgias, fatigue, and a variable skin rash, in association with marked eosinophilia. In one patient, symptoms and eosinophilia reappeared after rechallenge with L-tryptophan. Discontinuation of the drug resulted in gradual disappearance of the symptoms, signs and laboratory abnormalities in two patients. One patient was treated with corticosteroids because of persisting myalgias. Because of the non-specific clinical manifestations, clinicians from all subspecialties of internal medicine might be confronted with such patients and should be aware of this new entity. 
Mitral valve prolapse, panic disorder, and chest pain. Mitral valve prolapse is a common cardiac disorder that can readily be diagnosed by characteristic auscultatory and echocardiographic criteria. Although many diseases have been associated with mitral valve prolapse, most affected individuals have the primary form of the disorder. Mitral valve prolapse is an inherited condition commonly associated with myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve and its support structures. Complications of mitral valve prolapse, including cardiac arrhythmias, sudden death, infective endocarditis, severe mitral regurgitation (with or without chordae tendineae rupture), and cerebral ischemic events, occur infrequently considering the wide prevalence of the disorder. Panic disorder is a specific type of anxiety disorder characterized by at least three panic attacks within a 3-week period or one panic attack followed by fear of subsequent panic attacks for at least 1 month. It too is a common condition with a prevalence and age and gender distribution similar to that of mitral valve prolapse. Panic disorder and mitral valve prolapse share many nonspecific symptoms, including chest pain or discomfort, palpitations, dyspnea, effort intolerance, and pre-syncope. Chest pain is the symptom in both conditions that most commonly brings the patient to medical attention. The clinical description of chest pain in patients with mitral valve prolapse is highly variable, possibly reflecting multiple etiologies. Chest pain in panic disorder is usually characterized as atypical angina pectoris and as such bears resemblance to the chest pain commonly described by patients with mitral valve prolapse. Multiple investigative attempts to elucidate the mechanism of chest pain in both conditions have failed to identify a unifying cause. Review of the literature leaves little doubt that mitral valve prolapse and panic disorder frequently co-occur. Given the similarities in their symptomatology, a high rate of co-occurrence is, in fact, entirely predictable. There is, however, no convincing evidence of a cause-effect relationship between the two disorders, nor has a single pathophysiologic or biochemical mechanism been identified that unites these two common conditions. Until specific biologic markers for these disorders are identified, it may be impossible to do so. The lack of a proven cause-and-effect relationship between mitral valve prolapse and panic disorder and the absence of a unifying mechanism do not diminish the clinical significance of the high rate of co-occurrence between the two conditions. Primary care physicians and cardiologists frequently encounter patients with mitral valve prolapse and nonspecific symptoms with no discernible objective cause who fail to respond to beta-blockade. Panic disorder should be considered as a possible explanation for symptoms in such patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Induction of the protooncogene c-fos and recovery of cytosolic adenosine triphosphate in reperfused liver after transient warm ischemia: effect of nitrone free-radical spin-trap agents. Ischemia and reperfusion stimulate several adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent processes involving release of substances including free radicals. This cellular response is mediated through receptors responsive to transcriptional products of gene expression; c-fos acts as a transcriptional factor involved in the regulation of genes associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. We hypothesized that nitrone free-radical spin traps promote restoration of cytosolic ATP during reperfusion and prevent c-fos induction. Four control rats had no ischemia. Global hepatic ischemia was induced in 19 rats in four groups: saline solution, phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN), alpha 1-pyridyl-N-oxide N-tert-butyl nitrone (POBN), and 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO). ATP and intracellular pH were measured at intervals before, during, and after ischemia. At 90 minutes of reperfusion, liver c-fos mRNA was measured. A fourfold elevation of c-fos occurred in the saline-treated group (p less than 0.001). PBN and POBN groups did not differ from the saline group. DMPO resulted in significantly less induction of c-fos than did NS. ATP depletion and recovery in all treatment groups was similar to that of the saline group. We conclude that (1) nitrone spin traps do not prevent c-fos induction or alter the pattern of ATP recovery after hepatic ischemia and reperfusion and (2) c-fos induction is not necessary for restoration of ATP, but the rate of ATP restoration is inversely related to c-fos induction. 
Localization of the translocation breakpoint in a female with Menkes syndrome to Xq13.2-q13.3 proximal to PGK-1. Menkes syndrome is a rare X-linked recessive disorder characterized by an inability to metabolize copper. A female patient with both this disease and an X; autosome translocation with karyotype 46,X,t(X;2)(q13;q32.2) has previously been described. The translocation breakpoint in Xq13 coincides with a previous assignment of the Menkes gene at Xq13 by linkage data in humans and by analogy to the mottled mutations which are models for Menkes disease in the mouse. Therefore, this translocation probably interrupts the gene for Menkes syndrome in band Xq13. We describe here experiments to precisely map the translocation breakpoint within this chromosomal band. We have established a lymphoblastoid cell line from this patient and have used it to isolate the der(2) translocation chromosome (2pter----2q32::Xq13----Xqter) in human/hamster somatic cell hybrids. Southern blot analyses using a number of probes specific for chromosomes X and 2 have been studied to define precisely the location of the translocation breakpoint. Our results show that the breakpoint in this patient--and, therefore, likely the Menkes gene--maps to a small subregion of band Xq13.2-q13.3 proximal to the PGK1 locus and distal to all other Xq13 loci tested. 
Solitary extradural cavernous hemangiomas in the spinal canal. Report of five cases. Five cases of solitary extrathecal cavernous hemangioma in the spinal canal are reported. In one case, two coexistent massive cerebral venous medullary malformations were found. The symptomatology and prognosis of extrathecal spinal cavernous hemangiomas are discussed, as is the significance of various diagnostic measures. The patient material further permitted a rough calculation of the incidence of symptomatic extrathecal cavernous hemangiomas in the spinal canal. 
Transesophageal echocardiography: a simple method for monitoring the patency of ventriculoatrial shunts. Technical note. A new method for evaluating the patency of a ventriculoatrial shunt is described, and early experience with it is reported. Transesophageal echocardiography can demonstrate a cerebrospinal fluid leak in the right atrium through the atrial tip of a shunting device. This capability was an incidental discovery, and since then the accuracy of the technique in evaluating the patency of a ventriculoatrial shunt has been prospectively studied in 20 observations of 16 patients. The method proved to be accurate in 90% to 100% of cases. It is concluded that transesophageal echocardiography offers a rapid and accurate assessment of ventriculoatrial shunt function, is well tolerated, and is easy to perform. 
Heterotopic ossification and peripheral nerve entrapment: early diagnosis and excision. Heterotopic ossification can occur in neurologic disorders, burns, musculoskeletal trauma, and metabolic disorders. In addition to producing the complications of contracture, skin breakdown, and pain, it can cause peripheral nerve entrapment. Nerve entrapment due to heterotopic ossification may be misdiagnosed, and it is difficult to evaluate and treat without recurrence. Computed tomography is especially useful in localization before surgical release of the entrapped nerve. Resection of heterotopic ossification can be successful using disodium etidronate to decrease the risk of recurrence, and resection can improve range of motion and nerve function. Two case studies of nerve entrapment due to heterotopic ossification are presented with the results of computed tomography localization, successful resection, and long-term follow-up. Clinicians should be aware of this complication and the potential for rapid nerve injury. If heterotopic ossification is causing clinically significant peripheral nerve entrapment, early surgical treatment may be indicated, and may be successful. 
The effect of chronic orthopedic infection on quality of life. The patient with chronic orthopedic infection presents a unique challenge to the orthopedic surgeon. The orthopedic surgeon must not only possess an expertise in constantly evolving diagnostic and treatment techniques but also be able to identify numerous related problems and direct the patient in receiving the most appropriate treatment. This demands a commitment of time by the treating surgeon to the individual patient to properly assess the need for support, the extent of psychologic distress, the intensity of pain, and the requirement for medication management. The effective utilization of a multidisciplinary team of health care providers (e.g., specialists in infectious disease, physical medicine and rehabilitation, psychiatry, nursing, pharmacology) can provide an optimal treatment program for this multifaceted problem and maximize the potential for a favorable outcome. 
Cellular energy metabolism during hypoxia. Tissue hypoxia is frequently seen in critically ill patients and it perhaps predisposes these patients to development of multiple system organ failure. In cellular terms, hypoxia is characterized by decreases in the intracellular concentration of oxygen, leading to a decline in aerobically produced adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The deficit arising from unequal levels of cellular ATP requirements and aerobic ATP production is partially satisfied by anaerobic sources of ATP, including glycolysis, the creatine kinase reaction, and the adenylate kinase reaction. These reactions can set in motion cellular mechanisms that ultimately may lead to cellular dysfunction and death. A clear understanding of the relative importance of these reactions is impossible to acquire from global measures of oxygen delivery and oxygen consumption; therefore, the clinical monitoring of tissue oxygenation also should include the measurement of metabolically relevant, organ-specific variables. 
Acoustic neuroma (schwannoma) surgery 1978-1990. A series of 151 patients with 154 acoustic schwannomas have been operated upon in Manchester Royal Infirmary by a joint Otological and Neurosurgical team, employing either the translabyrinthine or the suboccipital approach. The perioperative mortality rate was 3 per cent. Anatomical preservation of the facial nerve was achieved in 89 per cent of tumour removals and a good to normal functional result in 79 per cent of cases. Attempts at hearing preservation have been unsuccessful, largely because of the small number of patients in the series in whom useful hearing was present preoperatively. Complications included major brain stem ischaemia (1.2 per cent), CSF fistula (5 per cent) and facial dysaesthesia (7 per cent). The incidence of mortality and morbidity is directly related to tumour size and to the experience of the surgeons. A number of patients experienced an unusual type of post-operative dreamlike state which appeared to be a form of hypnagogic hallucination, and the possible neurophysiological mechanism responsible for this phenomenon is discussed. The continuing failure to attain the ideal of early diagnosis is lamented, and the importance of a flexible bidisciplinary surgical approach emphasized. 
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies in childhood. II. Clinical manifestations and syndromes. During a 4-year period 1984 to 1988, 20 children referred with manifestations of central nervous system or neuromuscular disease combined with hyperlactatemia were found to have a mitochondrial disease. Each diagnosis was based on the results of thorough biochemical and morphologic investigations. The patients were separated into one series with mainly encephalopathy (n = 14) and another with mainly myopathy (n = 6). The patients with encephalopathy had the following syndromes: Kearns-Sayre (n = 2), MERRF (myoclonus epilepsy and ragged red fibers; n = 2), MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes; n = 3), Alpers (n = 3), Leigh (n = 1), and other variants (n = 3). In patients with myopathy, three had hypertrophic nonobstructive cardiomyopathy. Ultrastructural abnormalities of mitochondria were the most common morphologic changes in the muscle biopsies. Complex I deficiency was most common in the patients with encephalopathy. All of the patients with myopathy had complex IV deficiency. Mutations of mitochondrial DNA were found in six patients with encephalopathy. We conclude that identification of defects at the DNA level and determination of the phenotypic expression with clinical, morphologic, and biochemical methods are fundamental for future rational classification of mitochondrial disorders. 
Cervicomedullary junction decompression in a case of Marshall-Smith syndrome. Case report. The case is reported of a 2-year-old boy born with Marshall-Smith syndrome who had difficulty in swallowing and who exhibited spasticity and quadriparesis due to compression of the medulla and cervical spine. This is the first child with this rare condition reported to have brain-stem compression from bone abnormalities at the craniovertebral junction and who has required surgery. 
Histological and morphometrical indicators for a biopsy diagnosis of well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. Among 597 patients with nodular hepatic lesions who underwent ultrasonically guided needle biopsy, 305 were histologically confirmed as having hepatocellular carcinoma, and 37 patients had borderline lesions. Histological reexamination was correlated with morphometrical analysis on selected cases of well-differentiated, microtrabecular hepatocellular carcinomas (n = 29), borderline lesion (n = 10), typical (mid-sized and macrotrabecular) hepatocellular carcinomas (n = 15) and cirrhotic liver tissue obtained from extranodular hepatic parenchyma of hepatocellular carcinoma patients (n = 47). Morphometrical analyses revealed that the mean cell size and nucleocytoplasmic ratio were most useful for distinguishing well-differentiated, microtrabecular hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis. These two parameters were well correlated with nuclear density. The grade of nuclear density, therefore, seemed to be a convenient semiquantitative indicator for diagnosing well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. A comparison between intranodular and extranodular hepatic tissues was particularly important for its assessment. It is concluded from the results that hepatic nodules presenting a nuclear density larger than two times that of controls could be classified into the overt hepatocellular carcinoma group. From the statistical aspect, the possibility of microtrabecular hepatocellular carcinoma should be considered when a nodule has a nuclear density exceeding 1.3 times that of the extranodular tissue. 
Pure akinesia: an atypical manifestation of progressive supranuclear palsy. Two patients with "pure akinesia" who showed the characteristic changes of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) at necropsy are described. They had akinesia but no rigidity or tremor, and ophthalmoplegia was not observed during the course of illness. The symptoms of "pure akinesia" was not improved by levodopa therapy but was considerably improved by L-threo-3,4-dihydroxy-phenylserine. At necropsy, pathological findings were not different from those reported for PSP. It is suggested that "pure akinesia" is an atypical manifestation of PSP, and that norepinephrinergic neurons may be involved in some types of PSP. 
Catalase-negative listeria monocytogenes causing meningitis in an adult. Clinical and laboratory features. A 63-year-old previously healthy woman presented with acute meningitis. Cultures of the cerebrospinal fluid yielded a serotype 1/2a isolate of Listeria monocytogenes that was biochemically typical in all respects, other than the reproducible lack of catalase production. During therapy, the patient developed oculomotor dysfunction that was attributed to an abscess in the internal capsule. This case report documents the existence of catalase-negative L. monocytogenes indicating that catalase production should not be a strict criterion for identification of Listeria. Furthermore, this clinical experience extends in vitro and experimental animal studies indicating that catalase production is not a necessary virulence factor for invasion by Listeria. 
Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy in the management of acute and chronic limb ischaemia. A group of 54 patients with acute or chronic limb ischaemia were initially treated with low dose intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy using streptokinase (10,000 units h-1) or plasminogen activator (0.5 mg h-1). Complete thrombolysis was obtained in 90 per cent of patients with symptoms of less than 1 week duration, and in 50 per cent with symptoms of greater than 1 week (P less than 0.05). Successful lysis in 36 patients was followed by successful bypass surgery in seven, percutaneous angioplasty in 13, no further treatment in 13, repeat thrombolysis in two and amputation in one. Failed therapy was associated with major amputation in 40 per cent. One patient died of haemorrhage and another of stroke as a direct result of thrombolytic treatment. The most common complication was haematoma at the site of cannulation of the vessel. Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy can be very useful for the management of acute and chronic limb ischaemia, but complications do occur and patients should be carefully selected. 
Limited hepatic resection for selected cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular or cholangiocellular carcinoma: a prospective study. From 1 January 1983 to 1 January 1989 123 cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular cancer (n = 122) or cholangiocarcinoma (n = 1) were screened using liver function tests, alpha-fetoprotein determination, ultrasonography with biopsy (and in selected cases computed tomography or nuclear magnetic resonance), laparoscopy and angiography, Child-Pugh classification and urea-nitrogen synthesis rate. Twenty-three patients were selected for surgical resection because the tumour was smaller than 5 cm, not centrally located and at least 1 cm away from main structures; there was no evidence of multicentricity or metastatic disease; and the Child-Pugh classification was A or B and the urea-nitrogen synthesis rate at least 6 g/day. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was used routinely to identify oesophageal varices which were present in 17 cases; ten patients with a history of variceal haemorrhage (43 per cent) had preoperative endoscopic sclerotherapy. In cases with recurrent haemorrhage, surgery was used to prevent intraoperative and postoperative bleeding. Tumour resection was carried out using controlled hypotension and hepatoduodenal ligament clamping. Twelve bisegmentectomies, ten segmentectomies and one atypical resection were performed. The operative mortality rate was 13 per cent with liver failure and sepsis as the causes of death. The 'recurrence rate' was 26 per cent and the late mortality rate for the whole group up to 1 January 1990 was 30 per cent; 13 patients were still alive. The 12-month survival rate was 77 per cent and after 5 years it was 49 per cent. Thus, surgical resection of small liver tumours is the treatment of choice in this selected group of patients. 
Clinical and biologic features of childhood T-cell leukemia with the t(11;14). Cytogenetic analysis of cells from 622 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and successful G-banding chromosome studies disclosed seven cases with the t(11;14)(p13;q11) and one with the t(11;14)(p15;q11). Leukemia cells in all eight cases had a T-cell immunophenotype. The t(11;14)(p13;q11) occurred in 6.8% and the t(11;14)(p15;q11) in 1% of T-cell ALL cases (n = 103). The t(11;14) was associated with presenting clinical features typical of T-cell ALL: male predominance (n = 6), age greater than 10 years (n = 3), hyperleukocytosis (white blood cells greater than 100 x 10(9)/L, n = 5), relatively high hemoglobin level (median, 10.8 g/dL), high serum lactic dehydrogenase level (median, 3248 U/L), presence of mediastinal mass (n = 6), and central nervous system leukemia (n = 2). While there were no significant differences in presenting features between T-cell ALL cases with or without the t(11;14), leukemic cells from patients with the translocations were more likely to coexpress CD4 and CD8 antigens (6 of 6 v 35 of 86 cases tested, P less than .05). Adverse events have occurred in six patients: three central nervous system relapses [including the one with t(11;14)(p15;q11)], two secondary acute myeloid leukemia, and one hematologic relapse. Our results indicate that the t(11;14)(p13;q11) occurs exclusively in T-cell malignancies of intermediate- or late-stage thymocyte differentiation. Additional studies are needed to determine the prognostic implications of these translocations. 
Spinal leptomeningeal metastasis from cerebral glioblastoma. Appearance on magnetic resonance imaging. A case of circumferential leptomeningeal metastasis to the spinal cord from an intracranial glioblastoma multiforme (spinal meningeal gliomatosis) is presented. The clinical, radiographic, and pathological features are described. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid accurately demonstrated the spread of disease when compared with autopsy findings. The value of spinal magnetic resonance imaging in patients with symptoms attributable to cerebrospinal fluid metastases is discussed. 
Supravalvar aortic stenosis: a 29-year review of surgical experience Between February 1960 and August 1989, 73 consecutive patients underwent surgical correction for supravalvar aortic stenosis (SVAS) at the Texas Heart Institute. There were 43 male (59%) and 30 female patients (41%) ranging in age from 5 days to 27 years (mean age, 12 years). Preoperatively, 8 patients were in New York Heart Association functional class I, 43 in class II, 18 in class III, and 4 in class IV. Of the 73 patients, 62 had localized SVAS and 11 (15%), diffuse SVAS. For all procedures, patients were placed on cardiopulmonary bypass. Those with localized SVAS were successfully treated with patch aortoplasty, whereas those with diffuse SVAS required either an apicoaortic conduit or extensive end-arterectomy with extended patch aortoplasty. There were eight early deaths (less than or equal to 30 days postoperatively) (11%) and four late deaths (greater than 30 days postoperatively) (6%) in a follow-up period ranging from 2 months to 28 years. Sixteen patients (25%) underwent one or more additional operations in the follow-up period. Postoperatively, there were 44 patients in New York Heart Association functional class I and 17 in class II. Preoperative functional class III and class IV (p less than 0.0005), diffuse SVAS (p = 0.05), and the presence of associated congenital defects (p less than 0.01) were important determinants of death. 
Visual evoked potentials and visual acuity after transurethral resection of the prostate. Changes in visual evoked potentials, visual acuity, blood ammonia levels and serum electrolytes (Na+ and K+) after transurethral resection of the prostate using glycine as an irrigating fluid performed under subarachnoid block were studied in 12 patients, in the pre-operative and immediate postoperative periods. Visual evoked potentials (p100 latency), recorded by shift of a checkerboard pattern, increased significantly from a pre-operative value of mean (SEM) 101.18 (1.63) msec in the right eye, and 102.5 (1.47) msec in the left eye to 108.91 (1.8) msec (p less than 0.01) and 108.08 (2.53) msec (p less than 0.01) respectively in the postoperative phase. There were no changes in visual acuity as assessed by a Snellen's chart, blood ammonia levels and serum electrolyte concentrations. The amount of glycine used intra-operatively for irrigation ranged from 3 to 31 litres. 
Alzheimer's disease with delusions and hallucinations: neuropsychological and electroencephalographic correlates. We longitudinally evaluated the neuropsychological functions, rate of progression, and waking EEG findings in 17 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) with delusions and hallucinations, and compared them with those of matched AD patients without delusions and hallucinations. AD patients with delusions and hallucinations had a more rapid rate of decline, as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination, a specific defect in receptive language, and a greater frequency of aggression and hostility. Visual EEG analysis showed that these patients had a significantly greater proportion of moderately abnormal EEGs, and spectral analysis confirmed the increased amount of delta and theta activity. These data demonstrate that AD patients with delusions and hallucinations have a greater degree of cerebral dysfunction and a relatively focal neuropsychological defect, which may indicate a localized pathologic abnormality. 
Williams syndrome: masseter spasm during anaesthesia. A 4-year-old boy with Williams syndrome developed masseter spasm after halothane and suxamethonium. He did not develop malignant hyperthermia; the surgery was accomplished with a nontriggering anaesthetic and no further problems. 
Inappropriate use of transillumination for breast cancer screening--Wisconsin, 1990. The overall effectiveness of early breast cancer detection efforts requires the appropriate use and maintenance of dedicated radiographic mammography systems. However, the effectiveness of early detection efforts can be compromised if proven technology is improperly used and/or maintained or if ineffective technology is successfully marketed as an equivalent or superior alternative to mammography. This report summarizes state and federal responses to the inappropriate use of a nonradiographic imaging technique in a breast cancer screening service advertised and used in Wisconsin in 1990. 
Thallium stress testing does not predict cardiovascular risk in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing cadaveric renal transplantation. PURPOSE: This study assessed the usefulness of thallium stress testing as a predictor of perioperative cardiovascular risk in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing cadaveric renal transplantation. Demographic factors influencing the exercise performance in these patients were also examined. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The medical records of 189 consecutive patients with diabetic nephropathy who were evaluated for cadaveric renal transplantation were reviewed. Thallium stress testing was the initial examination of cardiovascular status in 141 patients. An adequate examination was one in which at least 70% of maximum heart rate was achieved. A thallium stress test was normal if there were no ST segment depressions on the electrocardiogram and no perfusion abnormalities on the thallium scan. Forty-four patients underwent cardiac catheterization as the initial evaluation (Group C) and four patients underwent transplantation without a formal cardiovascular evaluation (Group D). RESULTS: Sixty-four of the 141 patients undergoing thallium stress testing had an adequate and normal examination (Group A). The incidence of perioperative cardiac events in this group was 2%. Seventy-seven patients (Group B) had an abnormal (n = 41) or an inadequate (n = 36) thallium stress test and most (n = 61) then underwent coronary angiography. The use of beta-blockers was the only predictor of an abnormal or inadequate thallium stress test (10 of 64 versus 27 of 77, chi 2 = 6.66, p less than or equal to 0.025). Forty-three percent (26 of 61 in Group B) of patients with inadequate or abnormal thallium stress tests had significant coronary artery disease on cardiac catheterization. The perioperative risk of cardiac events was not different in Group A versus Groups B, C, and D combined. Survival of Group A and B patients was not different but was significantly longer than that of Group C patients (p less than 0.001). Thallium stress testing was less expensive than cardiac catheterization ($1,000 versus $4,000 to $5,000). CONCLUSIONS: Thallium stress testing allowed 45% of patients to avoid cardiac catheterization before renal transplantation. Discontinuing beta-blockers before thallium stress tests may improve exercise performance. The risk of perioperative cardiac events after transplantation was low and not different among patient groups. The relatively low predictive value of thallium stress testing for significant coronary artery disease and perioperative cardiac events in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease suggests the need for the development of a more cost-effective, noninvasive screening test for this patient population. 
Diagnosis of portal vein thrombosis: value of color Doppler imaging. This study was undertaken to determine the accuracy of color Doppler imaging in the diagnosis of portal vein thrombosis. Two hundred fifteen patients were studied with color Doppler imaging to determine patency of the main portal vein. Sonographic findings were confirmed in 75 patients, aged 19 to 66 years. Correlation with angiography was obtained in 13 patients, and surgical correlation was obtained in the remaining 62. Nine patients had portal vein thrombosis on the basis of these gold standards. Sonograms were classified as showing either patency or thrombosis, depending on the ability to show color flow within the main portal vein. Agreement between sonography and angiography or surgery was found in 69 patients (61 patent, eight thrombosed). One patient with a patent portal vein at sonography was found to have a thrombosed vessel at surgery, whereas five patients without portal venous flow at sonography had patent vessels at angiography (one patient) or surgery (four patients). Overall sensitivity and specificity for detection of portal vein thrombosis were 89% and 92%, with an accuracy of 92%, a false-negative rate of 0.11, a negative predictive value of 0.98, and a positive predictive value of 0.62. We postulate that the majority of errors in our study occurred in vessels that, although patent, had only sluggish flow, which could not be resolved because of technical limitations. We conclude that color Doppler imaging is a valuable screening procedure for the assessment of portal vein patency. If the sonogram shows a patent portal vein, no further studies are required. However, a lack of demonstrable flow does not always indicate thrombosis, and other imaging studies should be performed for confirmation. 
Local control and survival from the Cooperative Osteosarcoma Study Group studies of the German Society of Pediatric Oncology and the Vienna Bone Tumor Registry. The use of aggressive chemotherapy undoubtedly has brought about a dramatic increase in the cure rate of osteosarcoma. The authors' investigations have increased the authors' knowledge of chemotherapy for osteosarcoma, the differential efficacy of currently used agents, and the pronounced schedule dependency and relative route independency of their efficiency. The authors were able to confirm the prognostic significance of tumor response after preoperative chemotherapy. Preoperative chemotherapy in itself has facilitated and promoted limb-salvage surgery. Also, more patients can be cured today by use of aggressive thoracic surgery in case of primary or secondary pulmonary metastases. The authors' efforts to steadily increase metastasis-free survival rates by intensifying chemotherapy in this series of studies, however, have been only moderately successful. Still, chemotherapy-related acute toxicity is considerable and increases with aggressiveness of treatment, and the manifestations of late toxicity may continue to increase with follow-up time. Future trials should be targeted toward exploration of the minimum indispensable amount of toxic treatment yielding comparable or even better results than those currently attainable. 
Rupture of the posterior wall of the left ventricle after mitral valve replacement. During a 20 year period from 1970 to 1989, 1100 patients underwent mitral valve replacement. Rupture of the posterior wall of the left ventricle occurred in seven patients (0.6%); four in the operating room and three in the postoperative room. It was possible to institute CP bypass in six patients and in all of them bleeding was controlled successfully, with repair by an external approach. Only one patient survived. We believe that institution of CP bypass and reinfusion of cardioplegic solution is a major determinant of the outcome. 
Heterogeneity of immunotypes of heat-labile enterotoxins of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli of human origin. A new technique, checkerboard immunoblotting (CBIB), has been applied to detect and to differentiate heat-labile enterotoxins, (LTs), from enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia coli of human origin using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. Optimal conditions of production and release of LTs were defined using CBIB. LT release was enhanced when E. coli cells were treated with 8 M urea. LT production was highest when E. coli strains were incubated with shaking (200 rpm) at 37 degrees C for 12 h in CAYE-2 medium. Two hundred and five strains of E. coli, isolated from patients with diarrhea in Japan, Thailand, the United States, Mexico, and Brazil, were examined for LT. Of 133 LT-positive strains, 4 (3%) produced an LT that reacted like H-LT-1 (originally isolated from E. coli strain H-74-114) while 126 strains (94.7%) produced LT that reacted like H-LT-2 (originally isolated from strain H-10407) or H-LT-3 (from strain H-240-3). Three strains of human origin (2.3%) produced an LT that reacted like P-LT (produced by E. coli strains of porcine origin). This study shows that CBIB, a simple, efficient, and practical assay, might be useful for epidemiologic surveys and for evaluation of serologic responses to LTs and antitoxic vaccines. 
Role of von Willebrand factor in arterial thrombosis. Studies in normal and von Willebrand disease pigs. With normal and von Willebrand disease (vWD) pigs, we studied the role of von Willebrand factor (vWF) in platelet-vessel wall interactions and occlusive arterial thrombosis. Two methods of arterial injury have been used to determine the thrombotic response of flowing blood in vivo. The first involves balloon catheter injury. After superficial denudation of endothelium from coronary intima, platelets adhere to the subendothelium in a monolayer. Similar numbers of adherent platelets are found in both phenotypes, but platelets in vWD pigs have impaired pseudopod formation and are less well spread morphological indexes of limited platelet activation. Deeper injury, which involves the media, produces nonocclusive platelet-fibrin microthrombi. The second injury method involves pinching the artery at a site of superimposed stenosis, a procedure that almost always exposes media. This procedure induces platelet-fibrin microthrombi in normal and vWD pigs, but only normal pigs develop occlusive thrombosis. Both methods of arterial injury have also been performed in normal and vWD pigs with diet-induced hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis promotes platelet spread in vWD pigs but does not abolish the protection from stenosis and injury-induced occlusive thrombosis. In addition, neutralization of vWF activity in normal pigs by a monoclonal antibody prevents the induction of occlusive thrombosis by the stenosis and pinch-injury procedure. This monoclonal antibody also causes performed platelet aggregates to break up. These experimental models of inducing arterial thrombosis have been used in normal and vWD pigs to demonstrate interactions between normal and atherosclerotic vessel wall constituents, circulating platelets and vWF that are fundamental in the process of arterial thrombosis. 
Serum zinc, copper, and selenium levels in inflammatory bowel disease: effect of total enteral nutrition on trace element status. Serum levels of zinc, copper, and selenium, and alkaline phosphatase activity were prospectively studied in 29 patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Fifteen patients had extensive active colitis (active colitis group). Seven patients had active, and seven cases inactive small bowel or ileocecal Crohn's disease (small bowel disease group). Ninety-three healthy subjects acted as controls. Serum trace element levels were considered in relation to vitamin A and E levels, nutritional parameters, the activity of the disease, and the recent intake of steroids. The effect of total enteral nutrition on serum trace elements was studied in seven cases. Serum zinc levels were lower and serum copper levels higher in the active colitis group than in controls (p = 0.0007, and p = 0.02, respectively). More than 50% of patients with active colonic or small bowel disease showed zinc levels below the 15th percentile of the control group. Serum zinc levels correlated with plasma vitamin A in acute colitis (r = 0.67; p = 0.006), and with both serum albumin concentration (r = 0.76; p = 0.002) and disease activity score (r = -0.67, p = 0.009) in patients with small bowel disease. The copper:zinc ratio was higher in the active colitis group than in controls (p = 0.002). In spite of the increase in serum albumin levels and the decrease in disease activity, serum zinc levels remained low after total enteral nutrition. The implications of the abnormal trace element status in patients with inflammatory bowel disease are discussed. 
Tranexamic acid treatment of hemothorax in two patients with malignant mesothelioma. Patients with malignant mesothelioma may present with hemothorax. We used a combination of oral and intrapleural tranexamic acid to treat two patients with this severe complication. Initiation of treatment with this potent anti-fibrinolytic drug resulted in rapid reduction of bleeding and of transfusion requirements. 
Peripheral nerve lesions in hemophilia. Between 1962 and 1986, eighty-one of the 1351 admissions of patients who had hemophilia to the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre were for peripheral nerve lesions. Eighty-eight such lesions were identified in fifty-four patients, and thirty-nine of these patients (sixty-one lesions) had adequate follow-up (mean, 8.4 years; range, four months to eighteen years). The femoral nerve was most commonly involved, but involvement of other peripheral nerves also occurred. In thirty (49 per cent) of the sixty-one lesions, the nerve had full motor and sensory recovery; in twenty-one (34 per cent), a residual sensory deficit; and in ten (16 per cent), both a persistent motor and sensory deficit. Patients who had antibodies to factor VIII were significantly less likely to recover full motor or sensory function than were those who did not have such antibodies, and the time to full motor recovery in these patients was significantly longer. 
Mammography in the management of patients with small breast cancers. Findings on mammography resulted in a change of treatment policy in 17 of 200 patients with small breast cancers (T1/T2 less than 4 cm, N0/N1, M0). Twelve patients were considered unsuitable for conservation therapy because of mammographic evidence of either extensive in situ carcinoma or more than one focus of invasive carcinoma. These patients were treated by mastectomy and histology confirmed widespread in situ carcinoma or multifocal/multicentric invasive carcinoma. Seven patients were found to have unsuspected contralateral lesions on mammography, of which five were subsequently shown to be malignant. Routine preoperative mammography is essential in the management of patients with small breast cancers. 
Treating insulin resistance in hypertension with metformin reduces both blood pressure and metabolic risk factors. Insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia may play an important role in both the development of hypertension and its accompanying metabolic aberrations. In order to investigate this possibility, nine non-obese, non-diabetic, non-smoking, middle-aged men with untreated hypertension were treated with metformin 850 mg b.i.d. for 6 weeks as a pilot study and within-patient comparison. Metformin decreased total and LDL-cholesterol (P less than 0.01), triglyceride (P less than 0.01), fasting plasma insulin (P less than 0.01) and C-peptide levels (P less than 0.02). Glucose disposal, an indicator of insulin action measured by means of the euglycaemic clamp technique, increased (P less than 0.001). Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity increased (P less than 0.02), and t-PA antigen decreased (P less than 0.01), whereas plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and fibrinogen were unaffected by metformin treatment. Body weight remained unchanged. Withdrawal of metformin was associated with the return of both blood pressure and metabolism towards the initial levels. In conclusion, metformin treatment increased insulin action, lowered blood pressure, improved the metabolic risk factor profile and tended to increase the fibrinolytic activity in these mildly hypertensive subjects. These results support the view that insulin resistance plays a role in hypertension, and may open up a new field for the alleviation of abnormalities associated with cardiovascular disease. 
Generalized cortical dysplasia. Clinical and pathologic aspects. Three children with profound mental retardation and intractable seizures died at ages 10 months, 3 years, and 7 years, respectively. Complete examination of their brains showed generalized cortical dysplasia, without any major malformation of the external gyral pattern. The neuropathologic features of cortical dysplasia include abnormally thickened cortex with indistinct demarcation of the gray-white matter junction. In many areas, the cortex contained increased numbers of large neurons with disordered cortical lamination. Heterotopic neurons were scattered throughout the white matter with decreased myelination of the underlying white matter. To our knowledge, these cases represent the first fully detailed neuropathologic study of diffuse cortical dysplasia--a newly recognized entity of abnormal neuronal migration. 
Alcohol induction of ferritin expression in a human hepatoblastoma cell line (HEP G2). Hyperferritinemia, an unclear mechanism, is frequently observed in chronic alcoholics. The aim of this work was to study the effect of alcohol on ferritin expression in a human hepatoblastoma cell line, HepG2. This cell line proved to be sensitive to alcohol, since alcohol increased gamma-GT activity both in cells and media. The most striking result was the increase of ferritin in cells and media by alcohol. Moreover, this effect was specific, since it contrasted with a decrease in total protein synthesis and secretion, a decrease in transferrin excretion and a lack of effect on orosomucoid. In our model, alcohol was able to induce, in a specific manner, ferritin expression. 
Comparison of the findings on preoperative dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy and intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography: implications regarding the identification of myocardium at ischemic risk. The evidence of myocardium at potential ischemic risk on preoperative dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy was compared with that of manifest ischemia on intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography in 26 patients at high risk of a coronary event undergoing noncardiac surgery. The clinical outcome was also assessed. Induced intraoperative wall motion abnormalities were more common in patients and myocardial segments with, than in those without, a preoperative reversible perfusion defect (both p less than 0.05). Conversely, a preoperative reversible perfusion defect was more common in patients and segments with, than in those without, a new intraoperative wall motion abnormality (both p less than 0.05). Six patients, five with a reversible scintigraphic defect but only three with a new wall motion abnormality, had a hard perioperative ischemic event. Events occurred more often among patients with, than in those without, a reversible perioperative scintigraphic defect (5 [33%] of 15 vs. 1 [9%] of 11) but this difference did not reach significance (p = 0.14), probably owing to the sample size. Intraoperative wall motion abnormalities were all reversible and did not differentiate between risk groups; these findings were possibly influenced by treatment. These preliminary data support the known relation between reversible scintigraphic defects and perioperative events and identify another manifestation of ischemic risk in the relation between reversible scintigraphic defects and induced intraoperative wall motion abnormalities. The value of intraoperative echocardiography in identifying ischemia and guiding therapy in patients with a reversible scintigraphic abnormality should be further assessed. 
Recognition, management, and prevention of Clostridium septicum abscess in immunosuppressed patients. Spontaneous gas gangrene due to Clostridium septicum is a rapidly progressing disease that usually ends in fatal toxemia. We report three cases of asymptomatic C septicum abscesses to document the clinical course of this entity and to establish guidelines for its prevention and treatment. In contrast to previously reported data, C septicum infections can produce abscesses in solid organs, the retroperitoneum, and the extremities. These lesions often occur in patients with cancer, producing liver abscesses without gas formation that may be misinterpreted as metastatic carcinoma. Symptoms may be minimal or nonspecific before fulminant toxemia. Asymptomatic bacteremia should prompt a search for unsuspected cancer and an abscess. Computed tomography is the diagnostic modality of choice. The treatment consists of surgical debridement of necrotic tissue in concert with an appropriate course of antibiotics. We have found recurrences after adequate debridement and short-term antibiotic therapy, suggesting that prolonged and even lifelong prophylactic oral penicillin G potassium may be necessary to prevent further recurrences. 
Time course of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction after endotoxin infusion in unanesthetized sheep. Endotoxin [lipopolysaccharide (LPS)] has been reported to reduce hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and thus increases venous admixture. The time course of this failure of pulmonary blood flow regulation was investigated in six chronically instrumented unanesthetized sheep after infusion of Escherichia coli LPS (1 microgram/kg). The change in left pulmonary arterial blood flow (LPBF, ultrasonic transit time) in response to unilateral lung hypoxia (10 min of N2 alternately to the left and right lungs) was compared before and at various time intervals after the administration of LPS. During baseline conditions, LPBF was 33% of total cardiac output and decreased to 15% when the left lung was ventilated with a hypoxic gas mixture. One hour after endotoxin infusion, LPBF remained at 33% of total cardiac output yet only decreased to 28% during the hypoxic challenge. The response to one-lung hypoxia was still significantly depressed 10 h post-LPS administration. It is concluded that hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction is almost completely abolished for a prolonged time period after a small dose of LPS. 
Anterograde amnesia with fornix damage following removal of IIIrd ventricle colloid cyst. Two patients developed anterograde amnesia following the apparently uncomplicated transcallosal-transventricular removal of a colloid cyst. Damage to the fornical columns was demonstrated on CT and MRI scans, whilst other memory related structures were entirely normal. Longitudinal neuropsychological evaluation, over 12-24 months, has revealed a very similar pattern of deficit in the two cases: verbal memory has remained persistently impaired whilst nonverbal anterograde memory has improved to some degree. Formal tests of remote public (famous faces and events) and personal autobiographical memory have supported the clinical impression that neither patient has a temporally extensive retrograde amnesia. These findings address the role of the fornix, and the dissociation of memory processes in humans. 
Changes in upper airway resistance during progressive normocapnic hypoxia in normal men. The effects of normocapnic progressive hypoxia on nasal and pharyngeal resistances were evaluated in nine normal men. To calculate resistances, upper airway pressures were measured with two low-bias flow catheters; one was placed at the tip of the epiglottis and the other in the posterior nasopharynx, and we measured flow with a Fleish no. 3 pneumotachograph connected to a tightly fitting mask. Both resistances were obtained during a baseline period and during progressive normocapnic hypoxia achieved by a rebreathing method. We collected the breath-by-breath values of upper airway resistances, minute ventilation, O2 and CO2 fractions, arterial O2 saturation (SaO2), and changes in functional residual capacity (inductance vest). The central respiratory drive was evaluated by the mouth occlusion pressure 0.1 s after the onset of inspiration (P0.1), and breath-by-breath P0.1 values were estimated by intrapolation from the linear relationship between P0.1 and SaO2. In each subject both resistances decreased during the hypoxic test. The slope of the decrease in resistance with decreasing SaO2 (%baseline/%SaO2) was steeper for pharyngeal resistance than for nasal resistance [2.67 +/- 0.29 and 1.61 +/- 0.25 (SE), respectively; P less than 0.05]. The slope of the decrease in resistance with increasing P0.1 (%baseline/cmH2O) was -0.24 +/- 0.05 for nasal resistance and -0.39 +/- 0.07 for pharyngeal resistance (P less than 0.05). Functional residual capacity progressively increased during the test, but the decrease in resistance was greater than expected from an isolated increase in lung volume. We conclude that nasal and pharyngeal resistances decrease during progressive normocapnic hypoxia. 
Long-term angiographic follow-up after angioplasty of venous coronary bypass grafts. From April 1981 to June 1987, 57 patients underwent venous coronary bypass graft percutaneous angioplasty and had a minimal follow-up of 18 months. The procedure was elective for 28 patients, urgent for 19, and was considered as an emergency for 10. A total of 64 grafts were dilated that had been bypassed 58 +/- 48 months previously (range 2 to 184 months); lesions were located on the aortic anastomosis in 12 grafts, on the body in 38, and on the coronary anastomosis in 14. Technical success was 95.3% (61 of 64) per lesion; clinical success was 84.4% (54 of 64) per lesion and 82.5% (47 of 57) per patient. Thrombotic complications with images of a lacunar defect occurred in 11 grafts (17.2%). Predictive factors for these complications were: age of grafts 38.5% for greater than 60 month grafts versus 2.6% for less than 60 month grafts (p less than 0.01); site of lesion, body lesion 28.9% versus anastomosis none (p less than 0.01); type of lesion, concentric and short 6% versus other 29% (p less than 0.05); and recent fibrinolysis in 66% versus 10.6% (p less than 0.05). Long-term follow-up is available in the 47 successful patients and the three limited non-Q wave myocardial infarction patients. Two patients died at 13 and 17 months. Long-term angiographic follow-up is available in 45 of 48 patients or 94%. At the end of the study, 35 of 57 (61.4%) venous bypass grafts in 32 patients (64%) were patent after one or more percutaneous transluminal angioplasties. 
Differences in "primary response" gene expression in renal compensatory hypertrophy and hyperplasia. The induction of a family of primary response genes (ie, genes whose transcription is not dependent on new protein synthesis) occurs within minutes after stimulation of quiescent 3T3 cells by phorbol esters and growth factors. A similar pattern of gene expression is seen in PC-12 pheochromocytoma cells induced to differentiate by nerve growth factor (NGF), suggesting that a common set of activating signals occur in different forms of cell growth. To determine whether the same "activation" process occurs in renal hypertrophy, we measured mRNA levels in mice subjected to uninephrectomy (UNX) or sham operation. Regenerative renal hyperplasia was induced by intraperitoneal folic acid (FA) injection with vehicle as control. Northern blots showed induction of these genes by FA with elevated mRNA levels persisting for up to 24 to 48 hours. UNX and sham operation demonstrated a slight and transient elevation of mRNA levels, with a prompt return to basal levels by 60 minutes. 
Long-term psychologic implications of congenital heart disease: a 25-year follow-up. Patients with various types of congenital heart disease were contacted 25 years after their original examination at the Mayo Clinic. In addition to providing their current health status, level of education achieved, and current occupation, they were asked to complete a detailed standardized questionnaire to assess their degree of psychologic stress. Of the original 463 patients, 168 completed and returned the psychologic questionnaires. These patients had evidence of psychologic stress in excess of that expected on the basis of normative data. Furthermore, the degree of stress was unrelated to the clinical severity of the original cardiac defect. In addition, the psychologic stress occurred despite "success" as defined by educational achievement and occupational level. One can speculate that as children these patients were exposed to environmental stresses that may well have been colored by parental attitudes and perceptions. 
Spinal epidural hematoma causing cord compression after tissue plasminogen activator and heparin therapy. Bleeding is the most serious complication of thrombolytic therapy and limits its usefulness. We have reported a case of epidural hematoma, a rare occurrence after combined therapy with tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) and heparin. We emphasize that in patients treated with thrombolytic agents, any trauma may increase the risk of bleeding. The sudden onset of back pain and neurologic deficits should alert the clinician to the possibility of spinal hematoma with cord compression. 
Cerebral edema causing death in children with maple syrup urine disease. Four children with the classic form of maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) died of cerebral edema during an intercurrent infection that caused severe dehydration and acidosis. The diagnosis of MSUD had been established during the neonatal period in all four patients, on day 1 of life in three of them. All were in satisfactory control before the intercurrent illness. Two patients underwent peritoneal dialysis. Signs of brain-stem compression occurred after treatment, when biochemical abnormalities were improving. Computed tomography of the head, which was done in two patients, revealed cerebral edema; one of these patients also had subarachnoid hemorrhage. Autopsy in one case revealed cerebral edema with herniation. Our experience documents that cerebral edema may occur in the older child with MSUD as well as in the neonate. The pathogenesis of cerebral edema in MSUD remains unclear. Early treatment of dehydration and acidosis may prevent the catastrophic consequences that we have observed. 
The association of frequent headaches with personality and life events. The associations between personality traits, life events and frequent headaches were studied in a sample of 5766 adult subjects between 20 and 65 years of age from the general population. Subjects with at least weekly headaches had more life events and higher inadequacy, social inadequacy, rigidity and injuredness than subjects with less frequent headaches. These relationships were not observed in subjects of 50 years of age and older, with the exception of the association with inadequacy. From the traits measured, inadequacy had the highest odds ratios for frequent headaches and showed a modest interaction with the presence of a life event. These findings are in agreement with Sarason's interactional model. 
Inflammation at the neuromuscular junction in myasthenia gravis. To better define the pathogenic mechanisms in the antibody-mediated autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis (MG), we analyzed the morphology and electrophysiology of the neuromuscular junction in anconeus muscle biopsy specimens from eight patients with MG and seven control subjects. There were inflammatory cells at the neuromuscular junction in seven of the eight biopsies from MG patients. The endplate index (length of the postsynaptic membrane divided by the length of the apposed presynaptic membrane) was abnormally reduced in all the MG patients, and fiber type grouping, suggestive of reinnervation, was present in six of the eight MG patients. Intracellular recording revealed diminished amplitude of miniature endplate potentials and miniature endplate currents in the MG patients compared with the controls. The time constant of decay of miniature endplate currents did not differ from that of controls, suggesting no change in mean channel open time of the acetylcholine receptor. The endplate receptor sensitivity to iontophoretically applied acetylcholine was also decreased in MG patients compared with controls. The quantal content of neurally evoked endplate potentials was reduced in six of the eight MG patients, demonstrating abnormal presynaptic function as well. The presence of inflammatory cells at the neuromuscular junctions of limb muscles in MG reconciles an apparent disparity between the animal model of MG, experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis, and the human disease. This study also demonstrates a frequent presynaptic component to the abnormal neuromuscular transmission in MG. 
On lowering lipids in the post-infarction patient. In patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) elevated serum cholesterol levels, like other classical risk factors, remain predictive of further coronary events. The excess risk attributable to raised cholesterol levels is considerable, and greater than that in subjects without CHD. A recent meta-analysis of all eight qualifying trials of secondary prevention of CHD by cholesterol lowering is reviewed. There were significant reductions in recurrent non-fatal and fatal CHD, with a downward trend in total mortality. Mechanisms underlying the relationship between cholesterol lowering and secondary prevention are reviewed. The implication of this analysis of trials for clinical practice is that hypercholesterolaemia should be sought and effectively treated in patients with CHD, unless contraindications are present. 
Glutathione peroxidase deficiency and childhood seizures. 4 children with intractable seizures, repeated infections, and intolerance to anticonvulsants had evidence of glutathione peroxidase deficiency. 2 had low intracellular enzyme activity but normal blood selenium and high plasma glutathione peroxidase concentrations. The other 2 had low intracellular glutathione peroxidase activity with low circulating glutathione peroxidase and selenium concentrations. The clinical state of the children improved after discontinuation of anticonvulsant medication and selenium substitution. 
Polysialic acid of the neural cell adhesion molecule distinguishes small cell lung carcinoma from carcinoids. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) exists in various types of neuroendocrine cells and their tumors. A typical feature of NCAM is polysialic acid, of which the chain length is developmentally regulated. The authors have performed a comparative immunohistochemical study on small cell lung carcinomas and bronchial as well as gastrointestinal carcinoids with the monoclonal antibody (MAb) 735 reactive with the long-chain form of polysialic acid. The small cell lung carcinomas, irrespective of their histological type, were positive for polysialic acid. Metastatic tumor cell complexes also exhibited immunostaining. The tumor cell-surface-associated immunostaining for polysialic acid was sensitive to endoneuraminidase. The mature and atypical bronchial and gastrointestinal carcinoids were not immunoreactive for polysialic acid. Cytoplasmic staining in groups of cells of carcinoids (2 of 28 cases) was due to nonspecific antibody binding, which could be prevented by increased ion strength. These data indicate that neuroendocrine tumors of the lung can be distinguished by their content of highly sialylated NCAM. 
Malignant tumors of the eye in geriatric patients. The ocular tissues can be the site of a number of malignant tumors in adults and geriatric patients. In addition to posing a threat to the patient's life, these tumors can cause severe visual loss or blindness. Therefore, the primary care clinician should be capable of prompt diagnosis of the various malignant ocular tumors and be prepared to refer the patient for appropriate management. This article provides a photographic guide to the most common primary and secondary malignancies that can affect the eyelid, conjunctiva, intraocular structures, and orbit in the geriatric patient. 
Restenosis after coronary angioplasty: a multivariate statistical model to relate lesion and procedure variables to restenosis. The M-HEART Investigators. The Multi-Hospital Eastern Atlantic Restenosis Trial group obtained follow-up angiography in 510 patients with 598 successfully dilated coronary lesions who were enrolled in a controlled trial of the effects of a single dose of 1 g of methylprednisolone on restenosis after coronary angioplasty. The overall restenosis rate was 39.6%. The strongest univariate relations to the restenosis rate were found for lesion location (saphenous vein graft, 68%; left anterior descending artery, 45%; left circumflex artery and right coronary artery, 32%; p = 0.002); lesion length (less than or equal to 4.6 mm, 33%; greater than 4.6 mm, 45%; p = 0.001); percent stenosis before angioplasty (less than or equal to 73%, 25%; greater than 73%, 43%; p = 0.005), percent stenosis after angioplasty (less than or equal to 21%, 33%; greater than 21%, 46%; p = 0.017) and arterial diameter (less than 2.9 mm, 44%; greater than or equal to 2.9 mm, 34%; p = 0.036). Two multivariate models to predict restenosis probability were developed with use of stepwise logistic regression. The preprocedural model, which included only variables whose values were known before angioplasty, entered lesion length, vein graft location, left anterior descending artery location, percent stenosis before angioplasty, eccentric lesion and arterial diameter. The postprocedural model, which also included variables whose values were known after angioplasty was performed, was similar to the preangioplasty model except that it also entered postangioplasty percent stenosis and "optimal" balloon sizing but did not enter eccentric lesion. These data indicate that the probability of restenosis after angioplasty is determined predominantly by the characteristics of the lesion being dilated. They are consistent with the known intimal proliferative mechanism of restenosis, offer a means of identifying lesions at unusually high or low risk of restenosis, and of predicting the likelihood that a particular lesion will restenose after angioplasty and provide a rationale for stratification by restenosis probability in the design of future studies of restenosis. 
Prenatal diagnosis of fetal left ventricular aneurysm: a case report and review. Fetal echocardiography in a 30-year-old black woman, gravida 4, para 3, demonstrated left ventricular aneurysm. This was confirmed by color flow pulsed Doppler techniques. After delivery, neonatal echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging further confirmed the diagnosis. The infant was followed closely and underwent surgical correction at 8.5 months of age. Before surgery, cardiac catheterization demonstrated normal hemodynamic function. A review of the literature revealed a paucity of information. Issues of prenatal diagnosis, antenatal surveillance, method of delivery, and neonatal follow-up are not well defined in either the obstetric or pediatric cardiology literature. A rationale for our approach to this complex problem is presented. 
Community obstetric care in West Berkshire OBJECTIVE--To assess the effects of a revised obstetric booking policy whereby all low risk pregnant women received their antenatal care entirely in the community. DESIGN--Comparison of the distribution of antenatal clinic attendances, transfers, and perinatal mortality rates for 1987 and 1989, before and after introduction of the revised policy. SETTING--West Berkshire Health District. SUBJECTS--All women who delivered with a registrable birth in the district in 1987 (5817 women) and 1989 (5372). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Attendances at community and consultant antenatal clinics; bookings transferred from community care to consultant care; perinatal mortality rates. RESULTS--Of 5372 women delivering in West Berkshire in 1989, 3185 (58.3%) were originally booked for general practitioner-midwife care, of whom 1567 (49.2% of general practitioner-midwife bookings) were transferred to consultant care. 1618 women (30.1% of all women delivered) received their entire obstetric care from general practitioners and midwives. Attendance at hospital antenatal clinics was reduced by 16%. In 1989 the perinatal mortality rates (1987 values) for the district were 6.3 (7.6) per 1000 births overall; 8.2 (8.3) per 1000 consultant bookings; 5.0 (4.7) per 1000 for community bookings; and 10.2 (14.4) per 1000 for women transferred to consultant care. CONCLUSION--Antenatal care of low risk pregnant women may safely be provided by their general practitioner and midwife. 
Outcome of psychogenic seizures in children and adolescents compared with adults. We compared outcome of psychogenic seizures documented by video-EEG in 18 nonepileptic children and adolescents (ages 8 to 18; median, 14.5 years old) and 20 adults (ages 25 to 56; median, 34.0 years old). Outcome was significantly better for the younger patients at 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years after diagnosis. At these follow-up times, the percentages of children and adolescents free of psychogenic attacks were 73%, 75%, and 81%; at the same follow-up times, the percentages of adults free of psychogenic attacks were only 25%, 25%, and 40%. Factors leading to better outcome for younger patients may have been different psychological mechanisms at different ages of onset and greater effectiveness with earlier intervention. 
Criteria for the diagnosis of migraine in clinical practice. Criteria for the diagnosis of migraine have evolved from generalized descriptions to specific rules designed to ensure the selection of homogenous groups of patients for research studies. For clinical practice, the former are insufficiently specific and the latter are too complex. For care of headache patients by primary care physicians, we propose that the diagnosis of migraine without aura (common migraine) is warranted if any two of the following symptoms are present: unilateral site, throbbing quality, nausea, photophobia or phonophobia. These criteria are derived from a study comparing the features of 100 patients with migraine without aura and 100 patients with chronic daily headache. The proposed criteria for the diagnosis of migraine without aura were highly sensitive and adequately specific in discriminating groups. These simple criteria should facilitate the diagnosis of migraine by primary care physicians. 
Use of secondary prophylaxis against myocardial infarction in the north of England OBJECTIVE--To record the use of secondary prophylactic drugs in patients discharged from hospital having had a myocardial infarction. DESIGN--Prospective postal questionnaire survey of a random one in two sample of general practitioners in the region. SETTING--The nine family practitioner committee areas within the Northern Regional Health Authority. PATIENTS--Patients who had had a myocardial infarction and were discharged to their general practitioner. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Whether beta blockers or aspirin, or both, were given on discharge. RESULTS--Of 267 patients, 158 (59%) were treated suboptimally in that they did not receive a secondary prophylactic drug to which they had no contraindication. For most patients this entailed underuse of one drug, but 17 (6%) of patients received no treatment. beta Blockers were 2.5 times less likely to be used than aspirin. Treatment was not associated with the age or sex of the patient, risk of further infarction, or hospital of discharge. CONCLUSIONS--Secondary prophylaxis after myocardial infarction is practised haphazardly. It should be offered to all patients who can tolerate it, after a trial period to assess any side effects of the drugs if necessary. 
Impairment of mitochondrial transcription termination by a point mutation associated with the MELAS subgroup of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. Defects in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are associated with several different human diseases, including the mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. The mutations include deletions but also duplications and point mutations. Individuals with MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes) carry a common A-to-G substitution in a highly conserved portion of the gene for transfer RNA(Leu(UUR)). Although the MELAS mutation may be comparable to the defect in the tRNA(Lys) gene associated with MERRF (myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged-red fibres), it is also embedded in the middle of a tridecamer sequence necessary for the formation of the 3' ends of 16S ribosomal RNA in vitro. We found that the MELAS mutation results in severe impairment of 16S rRNA transcription termination, which correlates with a reduced affinity of the partially purified termination protein for the MELAS template. This suggests that the molecular defect in MELAS is the inability to produce the correct type and quantity of rRNA relative to other mitochondrial gene products. 
Differential effects of thromboxane A2 synthase inhibition, singly or combined with thromboxane A2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor antagonism, on occlusive thrombosis elicited by endothelial cell injury or by deep vascular damage in canine coronary arteries. In open-chest dogs, cyclic flow reductions (CFRs, 5.1-6.6/hr in controls; n = 24) caused by platelet deposition/dislodgment at sites of endothelial cell injury in critically stenosed left anterior descending coronary arteries (59% flow reduction) were attenuated to the same extent either by single thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthase inhibition (0.31 mg/kg i.v. ridogrel; CFR, 0.16 +/- 0.16/hr; n = 6; p less than 0.05) or by a comparatively modest degree of TXA2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor antagonism on top of TXA2 synthase inhibition (5 mg/kg i.v. ridogrel; CFR, 0.22 +/- 0.1/hr; n = 10; p less than 0.05). By contrast, occlusive thrombosis on deep vascular damage elicited by intraluminal stimulation (150-microA anodal constant current) in nonpreconstricted canine coronary arteries (time to occlusion, 237.1 +/- 13.9 minutes; n = 7; incidence of occlusion within 300 minutes, six of seven experiments) was not affected by platelet cyclooxygenase inhibition (5 mg/kg i.v. acetylsalicylic acid; n = 7), single TXA2 synthase inhibition (1.25 mg/kg i.v. ridogrel; n = 7), or single TXA2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor antagonism (10 mg/kg + 10 mg/kg/hr i.v. sulotroban for 300 minutes; n = 5). However, such an occlusive thrombus formation was significantly reduced by combined TXA2 synthase/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor inhibition (5 mg/kg i.v. ridogrel; time to occlusion greater than 300 minutes, n = 7; incidence of occlusion within 300 minutes, one of seven experiments; p less than 0.05). This study reveals 1) a differential efficacy of TXA2 synthase inhibition, singly or combined with TXA2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor antagonism, depending on the extent of the vessel wall lesion triggering thrombosis and the size of the thrombus required to obstruct the vascular lumen and 2) a significant synergism in preventing occlusive thrombosis of extensively damaged coronary arteries between strong TXA2 synthase inhibition and comparatively modest TXA2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor antagonism with ridogrel. 
Double blind crossover comparison of the effects of dual chamber pacing (DDD) and ventricular rate adaptive (VVIR) pacing on neuroendocrine variables, exercise performance, and symptoms in complete heart block. OBJECTIVE--To compare the effects of dual chamber pacing (DDD) and ventricular rate adaptive pacing (activity sensing) (VVIR) in patients with complete heart block. DESIGN--Double blind crossover comparison with one month in each pacing mode. PATIENTS--10 consecutive patients aged 23-74 presenting with complete anterograde atrioventricular block at rest and on exercise and with an intact atrial rate response received Synergyst I (Medtronic) pacemakers. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Symptom scores, maximal exercise performance on a treadmill, and the plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide, adrenaline, and noradrenaline. RESULTS--No significant differences were identified between pacing modes in symptom scores for dyspnoea, fatigue, and mood disturbance; exercise time; and maximal oxygen consumption. One patient with intact ventriculoatrial conduction developed pacemaker syndrome during VVIR pacing. Resting plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide were raised in complete heart block and were restored to normal by DDD pacing but not by VVIR pacing. Resting plasma catecholamine concentrations were normal in complete heart block and in both pacing modes. During exercise the increase in the concentrations of all three hormones was similar in both pacing modes. CONCLUSIONS--In patients with complete anterograde and retrograde atrioventricular block, symptoms and maximal exercise performance were no better during DDD than during VVIR pacing. 
Epstein-Barr virus and persistent graft dysfunction after liver transplantation. Epstein-Barr virus infection has been associated with a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations, depending on the immune status of the host. In this report, we describe two liver transplant patients who received hepatic allografts from donors serologically positive for Epstein-Barr virus and who experienced primary infection with Epstein-Barr virus associated with prolonged liver graft dysfunction. In both patients, Epstein-Barr serologies converted within 3 mo of liver transplantation, and hepatic histological study revealed mononuclear infiltration of the sinusoids evolving to pronounced immunoblastic features suggestive of evolving lymphoma. In both cases, in situ hybridization studies confirmed the presence of Epstein-Barr virus genome in the liver. Furthermore, polymerase chain reaction analysis suggested that high levels of Epstein-Barr virus DNA were present in biopsy specimens obtained during the episode of acute hepatitis that followed Epstein-Barr virus seroconversion. The degree of Epstein-Barr virus DNA estimated by polymerase chain reaction appeared to increase in parallel with the progression of parenchymal lymphocytic infiltrates. In one patient, a biopsy sample from a cervical node also revealed high levels of Epstein-Barr virus DNA estimated using the polymerase chain reaction technique. Furthermore, in these patients, Epstein-Barr virus DNA levels appeared to decrease dramatically after discontinuing azathioprine administration and beginning treatment with acyclovir. These two cases illustrate the dynamics of Epstein-Barr virus immune regulation and confirm chronic hepatic allograft dysfunction related to Epstein-Barr viral infection. 
Pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid treated by the Matti-Russe operation. A long-term review of 77 cases. We report the long-term results of the Matti-Russe operation for pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid in 100 cases, reported previously by Mulder in 1968. Clinical results for 77 patients and radiographic data for 74 were reviewed at 22 to 34.8 years after surgery. In general, there was satisfactory relief of pain and stiffness but some patients had limitation of motion and reduced grip-strength, with usually slight osteoarthritic changes. There was poor correlation between subjective, objective, and radiographic results but 88% of the patients were satisfied with their results. 
Hydroureteronephrosis secondary to perforated Meckel's diverticulum. Complications related to Meckel's diverticulum are not unusual. However, involvement of the urinary tract is extremely rare. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of ureteral obstruction due to perforation of Meckel's diverticulum. 
Pathogenesis of respiratory infections due to influenza virus: implications for developing countries. The influenza viruses have an important and distinctive place among respiratory viruses: they change antigenic character at irregular intervals, infect individuals of all ages, cause illnesses characterized by constitutional symptoms and tracheobronchitis, produce yearly epidemics associated frequently with excess morbidity and mortality, and predispose the host to bacterial superinfections. Much is known about influenza viruses, but their role in respiratory infections among children in developing countries is poorly understood, and the risk factors that lead to the excess morbidity and mortality have not been identified clearly. Among the many risk factors that may be important are alterations in host immunity, malnutrition, prior or coincident infections with other microorganisms, inhaled pollutants, and lack of access to medical care. There is a great need for research that can establish more precisely the role these and other unidentified factors play in the pathogenesis of influenza infections in children in the developing world. 
Expression of atrial natriuretic factor in the human ventricle is independent of chamber dilation This study investigated the presence of atrial natriuretic factor in ventricular tissue obtained from humans with dilated or restrictive heart disease. In 17 patients with ventricular dilation and impaired systolic function and in 8 patients with restrictive heart disease and preserved systolic function, the presence of ventricular atrial natriuretic factor was investigated in tissue obtained by ventricular endomyocardial biopsy. The objective of the study was to determine if the ventricular presence of atrial natriuretic factor is dependent on ventricular dilation. Left ventricular end-diastolic volume index was greater in the group with dilated cardiomyopathy than in the group with restrictive cardiomyopathy (134 +/- 13 versus 78 +/- 5 ml/m2, p less than 0.05); end-diastolic pressure was elevated in the two groups (20 +/- 2 versus 25 +/- 4 mm Hg, p = NS). With the use of immunohistochemical techniques, ventricular atrial natriuretic factor was clearly detected in 15 of the 17 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and in 6 of the 8 patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy. This study demonstrates the high prevalence of ventricular atrial natriuretic factor in living patients with either systolic or diastolic dysfunction. Whereas in the atria, stretch or dilation may be an important stimulus, atrial natriuretic factor in the ventricular chamber occurs independent of dilation. 
Knowledge-based computer system to aid in the histopathological diagnosis of breast disease. A knowledge-based computer system, designed to assist pathologists in the histological diagnosis of breast disease, is described. This system represents knowledge in the form of "disease profiles" and uses a novel inference model based on the mathematical technique of hypergraphs. Its design overcomes many of the limitations of existing expert system technologies when applied to breast disease. In particular, the system can quickly focus on a differential problem and thus reduce the amount of data necessary to reach a conclusion. The system was tested on two sets of samples, consisting of 14 retrospective cases and five hypothetical cases of breast disease. Its recommendations were judged "correct" by the evaluating pathologist in 15 cases. This study shows the feasibility of providing "decision support" in histopathology. 
Diurnal variations of neurocardiac rhythms in acute myocardial infarction. To determine the diurnal pattern of cardiac autonomic tone in acute myocardial infarction (AMI), this study examined the power spectrum of heart rate (HR) variability in 24 patients during a single 24-hour segment within 4 days of AMI. Patients were nonrandomly allocated to a group (n = 14) without autonomic drugs and to a group (n = 10) already receiving beta blockers at the time of AMI. With use of autoregressive modeling, the power spectrum of HR variability was computed from continuous 1-hour electrocardiographic segments recorded at equally spaced intervals; 7 to 8 A.M., 3 to 4 P.M., and 11 to 12 P.M. All patients were supine, awake and pain free during recordings. There were no differences in HR, HR variance or the low-frequency peak power (0.06 to 0.1 Hz) from one temporal sequence to another. For the patients not taking beta blockers, the high-frequency peak power (0.2 to 0.36 Hz) or vagal component increased significantly from 3 P.M. to 11 P.M. (28 +/- 11 to 45 +/- 20 beats/min2.Hz-1, p less than 0.01). There was a significant decrease in the low- to high-frequency peak power and area ratios from 3 P.M. to 11 P.M. All power spectral parameters in the patients taking beta blockers remained unchanged over 24 hours. There was significantly heightened vagal modulation of sinus node activity in those receiving beta blockers, especially at 7 A.M. and 3 P.M. The data suggest that under steady-state wakeful conditions in the early recovery phase after an AMI, vagal tone is more pronounced during the late evening hours with a possible shift to relative sympathetic dominance during early morning and midafternoon hours. 
Argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions and alpha-fetoprotein in adenomatous hyperplasia in human cirrhotic livers. Recently, adenomatous hyperplasia (AH) of the liver has been suspected as a precancerous lesion in human hepatocarcinogenesis. The authors examined 75 cases of AH from 42 cirrhotic livers, using staining of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs). These reflect proliferative cell activity. Findings in AH were compared with those seen in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and other chronic liver diseases. Expression of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was also examined immunohistochemically. The authors classified AH into three types: ordinary (OAH), atypical (AAH), and AH with focal malignancy (FM). OAH implies a lack of atypia; AAH represents AH with structural and cellular atypia but without the features of overt carcinoma; and FM denotes AH with foci of overt HCC. Forty of the 75 cases of AH were categorized as OAH, 19 as AAH, and 16 as FM. The noncancerous areas of FM had features of AAH. The mean number of AgNORs in AH was intermediate between that seen in cirrhosis (2.93) and HCC (6.18) and showed a step-wise increase in the following order: OAH (2.95), AAH (3.89), noncancerous areas in FM (4.58), and malignant foci in FM (5.71). There was no significant difference in AgNOR counts between OAH and cirrhosis. AgNOR counts in AAH and FM were significantly higher than those of OAH, and lower than those of HCC. AFP was positive in 12 of 25 HCCs and in malignant foci of 3 FM lesions, but it was absent in OAH and AAH. These data suggest that OAH has a limited capacity for proliferation but that AAH and FM are much more replicative. The latter two conditions are probably preneoplastic lesions or early forms of HCC. 
Explicit memory and repetition priming in depression. Preliminary findings. Explicit memory and repetition priming, a form of implicit memory, were examined in depressed patients and controls. Explicit memory of depressed patients was severely impaired, whereas repetition priming was intact. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the impairment of memory in depression is linked to a failure of effort-demanding cognitive processes. Repetition priming might be useful in differentiating between depression and dementia. 
Lupron retards proliferation of ovarian epithelial tumor cells cultured in serum-free medium. Some patients with recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer respond favorably to treatment with GnRH agonists. This effect was proposed to be mediated by suppression of pituitary gonadotropin release. The present in vitro study investigated effects of human gonadotropin (Pergonal LH/FSH, 1:1) and Lupron, a GnRH agonist, on proliferation of an ovarian cancer cell line, 2774, which is estrogen receptor negative and grows well in serum-free, defined medium. Pergonal, 10 IU/mL or 30 IU/mL, did not enhance cell proliferation, which argues against stabilization of ovarian tumors in vivo due to decreased serum gonadotropin. Lupron, 1.4 micrograms/mL and 140 micrograms/mL, retarded cell division by day 6-8 of culture, in a dose-dependent manner. Flow cytometric cell cycle phase DNA analysis demonstrated Lupron caused a reversible 5-6% increase in the portion of cells in rest phase, G0/G1, compared to controls during log growth, and a corresponding decrease in the portion of cells in DNA synthesis, S phase. However, long-term culture, 3 weeks, with Lupron failed to arrest cells in G0/G1, and experimental cultures plateaued at cell number similar to control cultures. We conclude Lupron's effect on ovarian cancer cell proliferation is independent of gonadotropin and steroid, involves a cell cycle regulatory event, and duration of benefit observed in vivo for some patients may be related to total tumor volume at the time of treatment. 
Early-initiated zidovudine therapy prevents disease but not low levels of persistent retrovirus in mice. An F1 hybrid mouse strain containing the Rfv-3r/s genotype was inoculated with Friend virus complex (FV) and treated with zidovudine (ZDV) intraperitoneally three times daily for 20 days beginning as early as 10 min after initial viral exposure. This strain of mice develops FV-specific neutralizing antibodies that aid in reducing viremia and splenic virus titers but do not prevent splenomegaly and eventual FV-associated death. The virally exposed mice treated with ZDV did not develop splenomegaly or have detectable viremia after the last drug treatment. On day 21, a single animal had demonstrable virus in the spleen as determined by a focal immunoenzyme assay; 57% had detectable virus at 5 weeks, but non displayed splenic virus after 35 weeks. None of the animals died after the 35-week holding period, compared to 38% dying in placebo-treated mice. To detect low levels of the virus, or potentially latent virus, splenocytes were cocultivated with a cell line known to readily propagate FV, and the cells were subsequently passaged four times to amplify replication of the virus. After amplification, a significant increase was seen in the number of mice testing positive for virus. Thus, ZDV treatment initiated early after virus exposure was effective in preventing FV-induced splenomegaly and death, but did not prevent low levels of persistent retrovirus in the mice. 
Minute lesions of the rectum and sigmoid colon in patients with Crohn's disease. Sigmoidoscopy with a spray of 0.1% indigocarmine was performed on 20 patients with Crohn's disease whose main lesions were located proximal to the transverse colon and on 10 age-matched healthy volunteers. Minute lesions such as apthoid lesions, areas of erythema, and small ulcers were found in 90% of patients with Crohn's disease and in 0% of healthy volunteers (p less than 0.001). Among the minute lesions, aphthoid lesions were found in the highest incidence (85%). It was difficult to determine the presence of aphthoid lesions without the spray of indigocarmine, which facilitated detection. Histologically, granulomas were found in 15% of patients with Crohn's disease. Aphthoid lesions were not associated with superficial erosions and lymphoid follicles. The presence of aphthoid lesions in the rectum and sigmoid colon would be a strong indication of the presence of Crohn's disease. 
Regional changes in hemodynamics and cardiac myocyte size in rats with aortocaval fistulas. 2. Long-term effects. Regional changes in hemodynamics and cardiac myocyte size were examined in adult rats 5 months after creating a large aortocaval fistula. At that time, cardiac output, left and right ventricular pressures, and left and right ventricular dP/dtmax were measured. Subsequently, isolated cardiac myocytes were collected from the left ventricle, right ventricle, and septum for cell size measurements. Compared with sham-operated controls, percent dry weight was reduced in the liver and kidney but was unchanged in the lung. Heart rate, left ventricular systolic pressure, left ventricular dP/dtmax, and systolic aortic pressure were not changed in rats with fistulas. However, cardiac output, stroke volume, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and all measured parameters in the right ventricle were significantly increased. Mean cell volume and the ratio of heart weight to body weight were both elevated 92%. Cell volume, cell length, and cross-sectional area increased significantly in each heart region examined. Hypertrophy was more pronounced in cells from the right ventricle and the endomyocardium of the left ventricle. The percentage of cells with mononucleation or binucleation was not changed in any heart region of rats with fistulas. In summary, despite evidence of renal and hepatic congestion, most indexes of cardiac function were normal or elevated 5 months after creation of a large volume-overload-induced hypertrophy. Data from isolated cardiac myocytes suggested that cellular hypertrophy, rather than hyperplasia, was responsible for the increased cardiac mass. 
Somatosensory function following dorsal root entry zone lesions in patients with neurogenic pain or spasticity. The goal of this study was to assess the effects of the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) lesioning procedure, microsurgical DREZ-otomy (MDT), on spinal cord somatosensory function based on peri- and intraoperative clinical and electrophysiological data. The study was performed prospectively on a series of 20 patients suffering from either chronic neurogenic pain or spasticity. Physiological observations were made of the intraoperative evoked electrospinographic recordings as collected from the surface of the spinal cord. The MDT procedure produced analgesia or severe hypalgesia, moderate hypesthesia, and only slight deficits in proprioception and cutaneous spatial discrimination on the body segments operated on. These clinical data correlated well with evoked electrospinographic recordings, which showed a moderate effect of MDT on presynaptic compound action potentials recorded from the spinal cord (N11 and N21), a partial or even reversible effect on the cortical postcentral N20 wave, a more marked effect on the postsynaptic dorsal horn waves N13 and N24 related to large primary afferent fibers, and a disappearance of dorsal horn waves related to finer afferents (N2 and possibly N3). These data provide evidence for an acceptably selective action of MDT on spinal cord nociceptive mechanisms, and for a partial, often slight, involvement of the other somatosensory domains. The presence of abnormal evoked electrospinographic waves is discussed in relation to the mechanisms of neurogenic pain and spasticity. The hypothesis of a "retuning" of the dorsal horn as the mode of action of MDT is presented. 
Control of local blood flow in pulmonary inflammation: role for neutrophils, PAF, and thromboxane. The intrapulmonary instillation of C5a results in a local inflammatory response that, in this site, is accompanied by a decrease in local blood flow. Reversal of this decrease by vasodilators or the thromboxane synthesis inhibitor dazmegral has been shown to result in enhanced lung inflammation. In the present study the mechanisms underlying the decrease in flow in pulmonary inflammation were investigated in the rabbit in vivo and in the isolated blood-perfused rabbit lung. In vivo, the decrease in local blood flow was shown to be dependent on circulating neutrophils. In the isolated blood-perfused lung, inflammation induced by airway instillation of C5a was similar histologically to that seen in vivo and was also accompanied by a decrease in local blood flow. The decrease in blood flow appeared to require circulating neutrophils and was prevented by dazmegral and the platelet-activating factor (PAF) antagonists WEB 2086 and L-659,989. Furthermore, no decrease occurred in aspirin-treated lungs perfused with normal blood, suggesting that the source of thromboxane was lung rather than circulating cells. The decrease in blood flow in inflammation did not appear to be a consequence of hypoxic vasoconstriction. Inflammation in the guinea pig lung was also accompanied by a decrease in local blood flow and was also prevented by dazmegral and PAF antagonists. We conclude that local inflammation in the lung is accompanied by a decrease in blood flow that involves neutrophils and the lipid mediators PAF and thromboxane. We suggest that this form of negative feedback by the neutrophil serves to control the inflammatory response. 
Role of echocardiography in the diagnosis and evaluation of severity of mitral and tricuspid stenosis. The presence, severity, and hemodynamic consequences of mitral and tricuspid stenosis can be determined by echocardiographic techniques. In mitral stenosis two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging allows definition of leaflet anatomy and dynamics, subvalvular disease, ventricular function, and involvement of other valves. Spectral and color Doppler echocardiographic techniques permit accurate measurement of transvalvular gradient, determination of functional orifice area, evaluation of associated valvular regurgitation, and assessment of pulmonary artery pressures. These approaches are of recognized clinical value, and they provide additional diagnostic information that is unavailable from clinical assessment alone in a significant number of patients. Compared with available invasive diagnostic standards of reference, echocardiographic data have been found to be comparable in accuracy. In tricuspid stenosis echocardiographic imaging and Doppler techniques provide an assessment of valve morphology and function that should be similarly useful in clinical management decisions, although rigorous comparative studies have not been performed. Currently, carefully done echocardiographic studies are a definitive means of establishing the presence and significance of mitral stenosis and tricuspid stenosis, thereby obviating the need for invasive evaluation in many patients, reducing risk, and potentially decreasing the cost of diagnostic assessment. 
Lack of diameter effect on short-term patency of size-matched Dacron aortobifemoral grafts. This study examined the relationship between graft diameter and subsequent patency in 79 patients who received Dacron aortobifemoral bypass grafts for aortoiliac occlusive disease between 1985 and 1989. Sixty-five percent of these patients were men, 25% were diabetic, and 94% were smokers, with an average age of 62 years. Patients were followed for a mean interval of 24 months. Life-table survival was 92% at 3 years. All surviving patients showed "significant" postoperative improvement by use of Society for Vascular Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery combined clinical and vascular laboratory criteria. There were three early and five late graft thromboses. Primary and secondary life-table patencies were 85% and 92%, respectively, at 3 years. Dacron bifurcation grafts were selected to match the size of native arteries. Patients receiving small diameter grafts, defined as 12 mm (n = 9) and 14 mm (n = 39), were compared with patients receiving large diameter grafts of 16 mm (n = 26) and 18 mm (n = 5). Small diameter grafts were more likely to be used in women (p less than 0.01), but patient groups were otherwise comparable with respect to age, smoking history, diabetes, outflow status, operative indications, type of proximal anastomosis (end-to-end or end-to-side), location of distal anastomosis (common femoral vs deep femoral), type of graft construction (knitted vs woven), and functional result. Graft diameter did not influence life-table patency, which was 84% for small and 87% for large diameter grafts at 3 years (p = 0.74). Furthermore, none of the other variables listed above influenced graft patency. 
Amnesia following damage to the left fornix and to other sites. A comparative study. Two memory-impaired patients, who had suffered damage to the left or both fornix columns during removal of a ventricular cyst, were compared with 3 others having left-sided hippocampal or thalamic lesions, and with normal controls. The tests used were nonverbal--scene recognition, delayed matching-to-sample and concurrent pattern and object discrimination learning. The last two are differentially sensitive to fornix transection and to hippocampal or thalamic ablations in monkeys; however, the patients with fornix damage did not show a distinctive pattern of impairment. The reasons for this discrepancy are discussed. The study adds to the evidence that fornix transection can cause wide-ranging memory disturbances in man. 
DNA ploidy analysis of effectiveness of radiation therapy for cervical carcinoma. Cellular DNA content from 30 patients with cervical carcinoma was determined using flow cytometry before and after radiation therapy (RT). The authors attempted to correlate changes in DNA content, tumor response to RT, and post-RT pathologic findings. Before RT, tumors from eight of 30 patients (26.7%) were diploid or near-diploid; tumors from 22 patients (73.3%) were aneuploid. After RT, diploid or near-diploid tumors were found in 23 patients (76.7%), and aneuploid tumors were observed in seven patients (23.3%). Aneuploidy disappeared in 15 of the patient tumors, and complete tumor response (CR) was observed in 13 of these 15 patients (86.7%). Pathologic examinations were negative in 12 of 15 cases and suspicious in one of 15 cases. Of the seven patients whose tumor aneuploidy did not change after RT, CR was observed in only two (28.7%). Pathologic examinations were positive in five of seven cases and suspicious in one of seven cases. The CR for the 22 patients with pre-RT aneuploid tumors was 15 of 22 (68.2%); the CR for the eight patients with pre-RT diploid tumors was two of eight (25%, P less than 0.01). From these data the authors conclude there is a direct correlation between DNA content and radiosensitivity in cervical carcinoma. Aneuploid tumors from these patients were more radiosensitive than diploid tumors, and they patients had a better clinical tumor response and improved pathologic findings. 
Enhanced GABAergic inhibition preserves hippocampal structure and function in a model of epilepsy. Extensive electrical stimulation of the perforant pathway input to the hippocampus results in a characteristic pattern of neuronal death, which is accompanied by an impairment of cognitive functions similar to that seen in human temporal lobe epilepsy. The excitotoxic hypothesis of epileptic cell death [Olney, J. W. (1978) in Kainic Acid as a Tool in Neurobiology, eds. McGeer, E., Olney, J. W. & McGeer, P. (Raven, New York), pp. 95-121; Olney, J. W. (1983) in Excitotoxins, eds. Fuxe, K., Roberts, P. J. & Schwartch, R. (Wenner-Gren International Symposium Series, Macmillan, London), Vol. 39, pp. 82-96; and Rothman, S. M. & Olney, J. W. (1986) Ann. Neurol. 19, 105-111] predicts an imbalance between excitation and inhibition, which occurs probably as a result of hyperactivity in afferent pathways or impaired inhibition. In the present study, we investigated whether the enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated (GABAergic) inhibition of neurotransmission by blocking the GABA-metabolizing enzyme, GABA transaminase, could influence the histopathological and/or the behavioral outcome in this epilepsy model. We demonstrate that the loss of pyramidal cells and hilar somatostatin-containing neurons can be abolished by enhancing the level of synaptically released GABA, and that the preservation of hippocampal structure is accompanied by a significant sparing of spatial memory as compared with placebo-treated controls. These results suggest that enhanced GABAergic inhibition can effectively block the pathophysiological processes that lead to excitotoxic cell death and, as a result, protect the brain from seizure-induced cognitive impairment. 
Cortical blindness in children: a study of etiology and prognosis. Thirty-four children (20 boys, 14 girls) with congenital and acquired cortical blindness were analyzed for visual outcome in relation to etiology, visual evoked potentials, electroencephalography, and cranial computed tomography. All 7 children with congenital cortical blindness remained blind on subsequent examination. Of the 27 children with acquired blindness, 16 (59%) had poor visual outcome. Poor visual outcome occurred in those with cardiac arrest, hypoxia, status epilepticus, intracranial hemorrhage, cerebral thrombosis, and head trauma. Good visual outcome occurred in children with hypotensive episodes after cardiac surgery. Of the 12 children with recovery of vision, the interval from acute loss of vision to partial or total recovery was 2 weeks to 5 months. Seven children had complete recovery of vision with no residual visual field defect. The majority of children (87%) had focal or multifocal spike-and-waves and slow sharp-wave discharges on electroencephalography. None had photic recruitment response or occipital spike-and-wave discharges. Flash visual evoked potential studies performed during acute episodes of cortical blindness documented 11 with absent response, 10 with bilateral increases in latency, and 6 with normal responses. There was no correlation between normal visual evoked potentials and a good visual outcome. Only 2 of 6 children with normal responses had normal vision. Abnormal or absent responses are more predictive of a poor recovery of vision because only 3 of 21 (14%) had normal vision on subsequent examination. Abnormal electroencephalographic findings with focal or multifocal spike-and-wave discharges or cerebral atrophy on cranial computed tomography are also poor prognostic signs. 
Factors affecting ability to resume oral nutrition in the oropharyngeal dysphagic individual. Successful oral intake of nutrition depends not only on the patient's ability to swallow efficiently and safely but also a number of cognitive, neurolinguistic, and behavioral variables. This paper reviews these competencies as they are integrated into the act of oral feeding and describes the types of disorders that affect these abilities. Methods of evaluating and treating the abilities needed for successful oral intake are described. 
Recurrent abortion and the diagnosis of Wilson disease. We describe the first patient with Wilson disease and recurrent abortion who was effectively treated with oral zinc for both conditions. Between the ages of 21-26, this patient experienced seven successive unexplained abortions. At age 27, neurologic signs and liver function disturbances appeared. Wilson disease was diagnosed when Kayser-Fleischer rings were detected in the cornea. Decoppering therapy was instituted with zinc sulfate per os. By the age of 31, hepatic and neurologic signs had vanished. The patient conceived, and after an uncomplicated eighth pregnancy she delivered her first healthy child. Two years later, a ninth pregnancy was equally successful. The chance that Wilson disease may be the cause of recurrent abortion is small. However, because the disease is fatal if left untreated and because it is an underdiagnosed disease, we recommend screening for Wilson disease in cases of unexplained recurrent abortion when family history demonstrates consanguinity or neurologic, psychiatric, and/or liver disorders. A strategy to this end is proposed. 
Ki-67 immunostaining in node-negative stage I/II breast carcinoma. Significant correlation with prognosis. Prognostic predictors for node-negative breast carcinoma have not been clearly established. Immunostaining with Ki-67 antibody was performed on frozen sections of histologically proved node-negative breast carcinomas from 42 patients to examine its prognostic value and its association with other clinicopathologic and biochemical parameters, i.e., patient age and tumor size, histologic type, nuclear grade, mitotic rate, presence of vascular or lymphatic invasion, DNA ploidy, percentage of cells in S-phase, estrogen content, and c-erbB-2 amplification. Thirty-seven of the 42 tumors showed immunoreactivity with Ki-67 antibody in 1% to 55% of the tumor cells. A strongly significant correlation was observed between Ki-67 staining percentage and, respectively, nuclear grade, age, and mitotic rate. Nuclear grade 1 (the most anaplastic) tumors showed a significantly higher median percentage of cells stained (median, 14; range, 3 to 40) compared with nuclear grade 3 tumors (median, 0.5; range, 0 to 8). Thirteen patients developed recurrence; six of them died of disease. On univariate analysis, both 5-year disease-free and overall survivals were strongly associated with percentage of cells stained with Ki-67 antibody. Our results suggest that Ki-67 immunostaining correlates well with nuclear grade and clinical outcome in node-negative breast carcinoma. Because of small sample size analyzed in this study we were unable to do multivariate analysis. Therefore, further studies with larger number of cases are needed to determine whether tumor proliferative activity determined by Ki-67 immunostaining is an independent prognostic parameter or it merely reflects histopathologic features such as nuclear grade or mitotic activity. 
A forensic application of DNA typing. Paternity determination in a putrefied fetus. Using minisatellite DNA probes that hybridize to a variable number of tandemly repeated loci, an individual-specific DNA fingerprint can be determined. In the case reported here, we succeeded in extracting high-molecular-weight DNA from a 3-month-old fetus discovered during the autopsy of a murdered 28-year-old pregnant woman reported missing 10 days earlier. The results of analysis of restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms showed that all bands present in the fetus's pattern, but absent in the mother's, matched only those of the putative father. Thus, the paternity of the victim's husband was ruled out. 
Chemotherapy dose intensity correlates strongly with response, median survival, and median progression-free survival in metastatic neuroblastoma We examined the efficacy of five commonly used drugs, teniposide (VM26), cisplatin (CDDP), cyclophosphamide (CPM), doxorubicin (DOXO), and vincristine (VCR) in a retrospective analysis of 44 clinical trials of induction chemotherapy for stage IV neuroblastoma patients newly diagnosed at older than 1 year of age. Dose intensity (DI) of each drug was calculated as milligrams per square meter per week. Linear regression analyses showed that the Dls of VM26 and CDDP had the greatest influence on clinical outcomes (ie, proportion of major response, median survival, and median progression-free survival [PFS]), while those of CPM and DOXO were less significant. VCR had no influence on the three clinical end points. Although many protocols extended treatment to more than 1 year, none of these end points correlated positively with the duration of therapy. Twenty-one weeks appeared adequate for achieving superior response, median survival, and median PFS. These results suggest that maximal dose intensification of selective drugs over a short duration may improve the outcome of patients with poor-risk neuroblastoma. 
Major amputations done with palliative intent in the treatment of local bony complications associated with advanced cancer. Palliative amputations were performed on 11 patients (7 men, 4 women) with disseminated disease to control local bony complications. The average patient age was 54 years (range 14-78 years). The primary diseases were melanoma/sarcoma (seven patients) and carcinoma (four patients). All had pain; eight had intractable pain that could not be controlled by analgesics. All 11 patients had additional severe local complications, which included recurrent pathological fracture (4), sepsis (2), hemorrhage (2), radiation necrosis (2), and iliofemoral thrombosis secondary to tumor (1). Previous attempts of palliation had been made in all 11 patients, and 8 had undergone previous operative procedures (5 had undergone two or more) prior to amputation. Three anterior hemipelvectomies, five posterior hemipelvectomies, two hip disarticulations, and one forequarter amputation were performed. All patients survived the surgery, and there were no intraoperative complications. All patients received dramatic relief of pain. Postoperative complications included two cases of flap necrosis and two infections; all resolved satisfactorily. The six patients who were nonambulatory before surgery ambulated postoperatively, and two eventually ambulated with a prosthesis. Six of 11 patients survived 1 year or longer, with a median postoperative survival period of 13 months (average 16 months). Although major amputations are viewed at times as offering little to already-compromised patients, they can improve dramatically the quality of life in selected patients. 
Confirming the theoretical structure of the McGill Pain Questionnaire in acute clinical pain. Based upon a tripartite theoretical model of pain, the Pain Rating Index (PRI) of the McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) continues to be one of the most frequently used instruments to measure clinical pain. Although a number of exploratory factor analytic studies have failed to consistently support the theoretical structure of the instrument, one previous confirmatory factor analytic study of chronic pain did statistically support the a priori model. Because it has been suggested that acute pain may not involve the same dimensions as chronic pain, this study provided a direct test of the theoretical structure of the MPQ through multi-sample confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) using data provided by women experiencing pain during labor (n = 185) and women experiencing acute postoperative pain (n = 192). Results of the LISREL CFA analysis indicated that the a priori, 3-factor, oblique model originally proposed by Melzack provided the most parsimonious representation of the data across the 2 samples of acute pain. 
The physician's responsibilities: residua and sequelae. Cardiologists assuming responsibility for adults with congenital heart disease must have knowledge of electrophysiologic, valvular (native valves), prosthetic (valves, patches and conduits), ventricular (especially chamber function), vascular (especially elevated pulmonary vascular resistance) and noncardiovascular residua and sequelae. Acquired cardiac and noncardiac diseases coexist in older adults with postoperative congenital heart disease and add to the physician's responsibilities. 
The mini-grommet and tympanosclerosis. One hundred and sixteen children with otitis media with effusion underwent myringotomy and insertion of a conventional pattern of Shah grommet in one ear and the much smaller Mini Shah grommet in the other. Close observation post-operatively determined the comparative rate of extrusion, recurrence of effusion, and of onset and degree of tympanosclerosis. At one year review, the Mini Shah shows a significantly earlier extrusion and a greater tendency to recurrence of otitis media with effusion. However, this is compensated by a decreased incidence of tympanosclerosis and reduced severity in those affected. This tends to support the view that shear forces produced by heavier patterns of ventilation tube promote tympanosclerosis. 
Hemobilia due to vasculitis of the gall bladder in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease. A 30-year-old woman with mixed connective tissue disease presented with acute abdominal pain and signs of blood loss. At cholecystectomy she appeared to have lost a considerable amount of blood into the biliary tract due to bleeding of the gall bladder. Microscopic examination showed vasculitis of the gall bladder wall. Hemobilia has not been described before as a complication in mixed connective tissue disease. 
A world record marathon runner with silent ischemia without coronary atherosclerosis. A 62-year-old world record marathon runner was found to have silent ischemia manifested by a very abnormal stress test, whereas at autopsy nine months later, there was virtually no coronary atherosclerosis nor other disease of the coronary microvasculature. However, there was focal fibrosis of the papillary muscles consistent with remote ischemia secondary to possible CV. It is postulated that endurance-related high catecholamine levels might have been responsible. 
Lack of ciprofloxacin ototoxicity after repeated ototopical application. The possible side effects of ototopically applied ciprofloxacin on inner ear function were investigated. The hearing function of pigmented guinea pigs was evaluated by daily frequency-specific evoked response audiometry after repeated application of the drug to both ears. Ciprofloxacin appeared to have no statistically significant effect on the hearing thresholds of the experimental animals. 
Risk factors for tunnel infections in continuous peritoneal dialysis. Little data are available about risk factors for peritoneal catheter subcutaneous tunnel infection. Therefore, we analyzed tunnel infections occurring in our program over a 10.5-year period. One hundred twenty-nine tunnel infections occurred in 92 of 411 patients (22%) on peritoneal dialysis for a mean of 19 +/- 19 months. Tunnel infection rate was 0.19 per year. By 1 year, 15% of patients had a tunnel infection, and by 2 years, 23%. Tunnel infection rates decreased with increasing time on peritoneal dialysis: 2.4 per year for patients on peritoneal dialysis less than 1 year, 0.8 per year for patients on dialysis 1 to 2 years, and 0.4 per year for patients on dialysis greater than 2 years (all different at P less than 0.01). Organisms were cultured in 109 tunnel infections: gram-positive cocci in 77 episodes (71%) [Staphylococcus aureus 57, 52%], and gram-negative bacilli in 24 episodes (22%). Tunnel infection rates were higher in diabetics than in nondiabetics (0.27 per year v 0.16 per year, respectively; P less than 0.001 by life-table analysis of time to first infection) and also higher in women than in men (0.23 per year v 0.17 per year, P less than 0.001). Tunnel infection rates were 0.35 per year for diabetic women, 0.20 per year for diabetic men, 0.18 per year for nondiabetic women, and 0.15 per year for nondiabetic men (groups different, P less than 0.001). Race and age were similar in patients with and without tunnel infections. Catheter loss was 80% when tunnel infection was associated with peritonitis and 40% when tunnel infection alone was present (P less than 0.001). We conclude that the risk of tunnel infection is highest early in the course of peritoneal dialysis and that diabetic women, for unclear reasons, are at the highest risk. 
Assessment of normal and abnormal erectile function: color Doppler flow sonography versus conventional techniques. The penile arteries were studied with color Doppler flow sonography in 10 subjects with normal and 39 patients with abnormal erectile function. The relationships of systolic and diastolic velocities to spectral waveform changes in the penile arteries in response to tumescence were studied before and after intracorporal injection of vasoactive medications that induce erection. In normal subjects, a characteristic spectral waveform pattern corresponded to increasing intracorporal pressure. Patients with abnormal arterial inflow and/or abnormal venous sinusoidal leakage demonstrated deviation from the patterns noted in normal subjects. Patients with abnormal arterial inflow had lower mean peak systolic velocities than normal subjects. Patients with severe venous sinusoidal incompetence had an arrest of waveform progression with evolution to but not beyond phases 1 or 2 (diastolic flow remained positive). Patients with abnormal arterial inflow and abnormal venous sinusoidal outflow had waveform changes that reflected both processes. Systolic/diastolic velocity and waveform relationships can be used to define the integrity of both the cavernosal artery inflow and venous sinusoidal outflow occlusion mechanisms. 
Breast cancer metastatic to the eye is a common entity. Breast cancer metastatic to the eye is a common entity occurring in up to 30% of women with metastatic disease. The prevalence of this lesion is not appreciated because of the dominant clinical picture of metastases occurring in other organs. The diagnosis should be suspected in any women with a history of breast cancer and any visual symptoms, particularly metamorphopsia and scotomata. A thorough ophthalmologic evaluation, aided by ultrasonography, computed tomography, or magnetic resonance scanning, usually confirms the diagnosis. Early treatment with radiation therapy can alleviate symptoms and control local disease. The recognition and treatment of this disorder is important in maximizing the quality of life in patients with metastatic breast cancer, especially because newer treatment regimens prolong survival and thereby increase the chances for ocular metastasis. 
Incidental detection of a microcystic adenoma of the pancreas. Cystic neoplasms of the pancreas are uncommon. The two major types of cystic pancreatic neoplasms are microcystic (serous) cystadenoma and mucinous cystic lesions (mucinous cystadenoma and mucinous cystadenocarcinoma). The two types differ substantially in the long-term mortality. Symptoms and signs do not distinguish between the two types, and small lesions are often asymptomatic. The neoplasms may be discovered during imaging procedures for unrelated complaints. Computerized tomography may suggest the diagnosis of microcystic adenoma or mucinous cystic neoplasm when the features are typical, but the final diagnosis must be established by surgical biopsy. Characteristic gross findings, light microscopic findings, and immunohistochemical staining patterns distinguish between the two types. When preliminary open biopsy confirms microcystic adenoma, extensive unnecessary surgery can be avoided. 
Effects of beta-adrenergic stimulation with dobutamine on isovolumic relaxation in the normal and failing human left ventricle. BACKGROUND. We tested the hypothesis that beta-adrenergic receptor-stimulated acceleration of left ventricular (LV) isovolumic relaxation (i.e., positive lusitropic response) is attenuated in patients with severe congestive heart failure (CHF) compared with patients without LV dysfunction or CHF. METHODS AND RESULTS. The beta-adrenergic agonist dobutamine was infused by the intracoronary route in 14 subjects (normal group, six; CHF patients, eight) and by the intravenous route in a second group of 14 subjects (normal group, four; CHF patients, 10). The positive inotropic response to intracoronary or intravenous dobutamine was substantially and significantly reduced in the patients with CHF. LV isovolumic relaxation rate was determined by the methods of Weiss (TL), Mirsky (T1/2), and by a nonlinear regression technique (TNL). LV isovolumic relaxation assessed by all three methods was significantly prolonged in CHF patients compared with normal subjects. Intracoronary and intravenous infusions of dobutamine caused significant acceleration of LV isovolumic relaxation in both normal subjects and patients with CHF. The magnitude of the dobutamine-stimulated acceleration of isovolumic relaxation in patients with CHF was comparable with that in normal subjects. CONCLUSIONS. These data demonstrate that beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation causes significant acceleration of LV isovolumic relaxation in both normal subjects and patients with severe CHF. Coronary to our hypothesis, the lusitropic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation is well preserved in patients with severe CHF despite substantial attenuation of the beta-adrenergic positive inotropic response. These findings have potentially important implications regarding the physiology and pharmacology of adrenergically mediated LV relaxation in humans. 
Dystrophin expression and somatic reversion in prednisone-treated and untreated Duchenne dystrophy. CIDD Study Group. The mechanism by which prednisone improves muscle strength and function in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is unknown. We addressed the possibility that clinical improvement was related to prednisone-induced alterations in skeletal muscle dystrophin. We performed muscle biopsies on patients at the conclusion of a randomized, double-blind, 6-month trial of prednisone and analyzed dystrophin content using Western blots and antibody staining of tissue sections. These studies demonstrated no significant differences in dystrophin content between treatment (prednisone 1.5 mg/kg/d, n = 12; prednisone 0.75 mg/kg/d, n = 9) and placebo (n = 12) groups. Of interest, however, was the presence of varying numbers of dystrophin-positive fibers (revertants) occurring individually or in clusters in antibody-stained tissue sections of more than one-half of the Duchenne patients. Mutation analysis revealed that revertants occurred in DMD patients with identifiable deletions half of the Duchenne patients. Mutation analysis revealed that revertants occurred in DMD patients with identifiable deletions or duplications, and in nondeletion patients. Prednisone treatment did not influence the prevalence of revertants. Revertants are most likely due to a second-site mutation occurring in a somatic cell allowing for restoration of the translational reading frame of the dystrophin transcript. 
Dimethylformamide-induced liver damage among synthetic leather workers. Prevalence of liver injury associated with dimethylformamide (DMF) exposure was determined. Medical examinations, liver function tests, and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) determinations were performed on 183 of 204 (76%) employees of a synthetic leather factory. Air concentrations of solvents were measured with personal samplers and gas chromatography. The concentration of DMF in air to which each worker was exposed was categorized. High exposure concentrations of DMF (i.e., 25-60 ppm) were significantly associated with elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels (ALT greater than or equal to 35 IU/l), a result that did not change even after stratification by hepatitis B carrier status. Modeling by logistic regression demonstrated that exposure to high concentrations of DMF was associated with an elevated ALT (p = .01), whereas hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) was slightly but independently associated with an elevated ALT (p = .07). In those workers who had normal ALT values, there occurred still significantly higher mean ALT and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities, especially among those who were not HBsAg carriers. A significant association existed between elevated CPK levels and exposure to DMF. However, an analysis of the CPK isoenzyme among 143 workers did not reveal any specific damage to muscles. This outbreak of liver injury among synthetic leather workers is ascribed to DMF. It is recommended that the occupational standard for DMF and its toxicity among HBsAg carriers be evaluated further. 
Parathyroid hypertensive factor, a circulating factor in animal and human hypertension. A new circulating hypertensive factor (parathyroid hypertensive factor; PHF) was shown to exist in the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) but not in that of normotensive rats. PHF produced a delayed increase in blood pressure with a peak response at 45 min (bolus injection) or 60 to 90 min (continuous infusion). This increase in blood pressure was coupled with an in vitro increase in calcium uptake in rat tail artery with a similar time course. The involvement of calcium in the mechanism of action was supported by the inhibitory effect of calcium antagonists on the vascular action of PHF. Furthermore, PHF increased the intracellular free calcium concentration in cultured smooth muscle cells from rat tail artery. Parathyroidectomy and parathyroid transplant experiments indicated the parathyroid origin of PHF. A culture of parathyroid glands from SHR, but not from normotensive rats, produced in the medium a factor which has the same biological property and HPLC retention time as plasma PHF. A novel cell type was described in the parathyroid gland of SHR, but not normotensive rats, and the percent of these cells correlated significantly with plasma PHF level and blood pressure. In some hyperparathyroid patients, plasma PHF and hypertension were found, both of which disappeared after surgical removal of the parathyroid gland. In both animal models and human studies, PHF seems to be associated with low or normal plasma renin and salt-sensitive type of hypertension. 
How well can radiographers triage x ray films in accident and emergency departments? [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Mar 23;302(6778):696] OBJECTIVE--To assess the ability of radiographers to identify abnormal radiographs of patients attending accident and emergency departments. DESIGN--Prospective study over six weeks. SETTING--Teaching hospital casualty x ray department. PATIENTS--3394 consecutive patients referred for radiography. INTERVENTIONS--Radiographs were assessed by radiographers who were offered a four point triage scheme: normal, abnormal, insignificantly abnormal, or further advice required. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Comparison of radiographers' assessments with an assessment made independently by the reporting radiologists. RESULTS--Overall disagreement between the radiographers and radiologists was 9.4%. There were 7% false positives and 14% false negatives. Most errors occurred in assessing radiographs of the skull, facial bones, chest, abdomen, and soft tissues. CONCLUSION--Unselected radiographers can offer useful advice on radiographs to casualty officers, but their high rate of false positive diagnoses indicates that they cannot triage casualty radiographs sufficiently accurately to allow them to extend their current reporting role. 
Early treatment of ischemic stroke with a calcium antagonist. We performed a feasibility and safety study (phase II) of nicardipine, a calcium antagonist, in 57 patients. The objectives of the study were to begin therapy as early as possible (less than or equal to 12 hours) after the onset of ischemic stroke and to administer as high a dose as possible. All patients received an intravenous infusion of nicardipine for 72 hours, starting with a dose of 3 mg/hr and increasing to a maximum dose of 7 mg/hr. Upward titration of the dose was limited by a 10% decrease in blood pressure or a 20 beats/min increase in pulse. Intravenous therapy was followed by 30 days of oral therapy. The mean +/- SD interval from onset of stroke to commencement of therapy was 9.1 +/- 5.4 hours. Adverse reactions consisted primarily of hypotension requiring discontinuation of therapy in four patients. Score on a graded neurologic examination increased from 41/100 at baseline to 64/100 at 3 months for the 41 patients completing follow-up. There was no correlation between the dose of nicardipine administered and outcome, but the 11 patients starting therapy less than or equal to 6 hours after onset did better than those starting therapy 6-12 hours after onset. Further study of very early therapy with nicardipine is justified. 
Should intravenous immunoglobulin G be first-line treatment for acute thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura? Case report and review of the literature. Acute thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare and serious disease. Treatment with prednisone, anticoagulation, antiplatelet drugs, splenectomy, exchange transfusions, vincristine, and plasmapheresis may be effective in some patients, but the response to these therapies is inconsistent and all carry the potential for serious side effects. We, and others, have recently seen dramatic responses to intravenous (IV) immunoglobulin G (IgG) when other treatments have failed. Although IV IgG is expensive, its costs are low compared with those extended plasmapheresis regimens. Since the response to treatment can usually be evaluated within a few days and the side effects appear less than with other treatments, we believe a strong case can be made for the use of IV IgG as first-line therapy for acute TTP. Continued multicenter studies are necessary to finally solve the problem of competing and confusing treatment attempts and synergism of treatment in acute TTP. 
The prognostic value of deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometric analysis in stage D2 prostatic carcinoma. This study was designed to compare the prognostic potential of tumor grade and ploidy status in patients with stage D2 prostate cancer. Two outcome groups were selected on the basis of survival after orchiectomy: a bad outcome group consisting of 66 patients who died of the disease within 12 months and a good outcome group comprising 37 patients who survived beyond 5 years. Tumors were classified histologically as well (17%), moderately (17%) or poorly (66%) differentiated. Tumor grade was a significant predictor of outcome, with 76% of poorly differentiated tumors in the bad outcome group and 65% of well differentiated tumors in the good outcome group (p less than 0.005). Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) ploidy analysis was performed on formalin fixed, paraffin embedded samples of the primary tumor to yield 97 final tracings that were classified using set criteria for DNA ploidy status. Over-all, 54% of the tumors were nondiploid (33% aneuploid and 21% tetraploid) and the remaining 46% were diploid. DNA ploidy status was a significant indicator of outcome (p less than 0.001), with 64% of diploid tumors in the good outcome group and 88% of the nondiploid tumors in the poor outcome group. Tetraploid tumors behaved no differently from other nondiploid tumors. We conclude that DNA ploidy status and tumor grading are significant independent predictors of outcome after orchiectomy and when combined yield important additional prognostic information. 
Effects of milrinone on left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction. BACKGROUND. Left ventricular remodeling after an acute myocardial infarction may result in progressive left ventricular dilation that may be associated with increased mortality. We studied the effects of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor milrinone on left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. Rats (n = 90) were randomized to undergo either left coronary artery ligation or sham operation. Three weeks after surgery, rats received either no treatment or milrinone, which was continued until 2 days before the rats were killed. Ninety days after the initial surgery, hemodynamic measurements were made before and after volume loading. The rats were killed, the hearts were removed, and passive pressure-volume curves were obtained. The hearts were fixed at a constant pressure and analyzed morphometrically. Compared with untreated infarcted rats, milrinone-treated infarcted rats had a lower left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (1.7 +/- 0.4 versus 4.3 +/- 1.4 mm Hg, p less than 0.05), a lower left ventricular volume (1.25 +/- 0.20 versus 2.37 +/- 0.30 ml/kg, p less than 0.001) and a lower left ventricular wall stress index (1.3 +/- 0.2 versus 1.7 +/- 0.1, p less than 0.05). Left ventricular chamber stiffness was higher in milrinone-treated infarcted rats than in untreated infarcted rats. Milrinone had no cardiac effect on uninfarcted animals. CONCLUSION. Chronic milrinone therapy after acute myocardial infarction improves cardiac hemodynamic indexes and attenuates progressive left ventricular dilation. 
Nongynecologic somatic pathology in women with chronic pelvic pain and negative laparoscopy. One hundred eighty-three women with chronic pelvic pain were referred to a multidisciplinary chronic pelvic pain clinic after negative laparoscopy. One hundred twenty-two of them completed a thorough medical and psychologic evaluation and were followed for a minimum of six months after completion of therapy. Occult somatic pathology was diagnosed in 57 women (47%), including 19 in whom coexistent psychopathology was diagnosed. Myofascial pain was the most common somatic diagnosis, followed by atypical cyclic pain (dysmenorrhea or mittelschmerz); gastroenterologic, urologic and infectious diseases; and pelvic vascular congestion. No plausible somatic etiology was apparent in the remaining 65 (53%) of the 122 referrals. Nongynecologic somatic pathology accounted for 34 (29%) and gynecologic pathology for 23 (19%) of the referrals, only 6 (5%) of whom ultimately required hysterectomy. Women with a somatic diagnosis were found to be significantly older than the remainder of the referral population. Long-term symptomatic improvement or resolution of pain was obtained in 43 (75%) of the 57 patients with somatic diagnoses. Coexistent psychopathology was found to correlate with a poorer long-term prognosis. Our findings underscore the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to evaluating and treating chronic pelvic pain in women and confirm that hysterectomy is indicated in this setting only rarely. 
Treatment of bone, joint, and vascular-access-associated gram-positive bacterial infections with teicoplanin. Teicoplanin, a glycopeptide antibiotic, was evaluated for safety and efficacy in the treatment of vascular-access-associated bacteremias and of bone and joint infections due to susceptible gram-positive organisms. Of 35 patients enrolled, 26 had osteomyelitis, 8 had vascular-access-associated bacteremias, and 1 had a joint infection. A total of 38 gram-positive isolates were identified: 23 Staphylococcus aureus and 6 coagulase-negative staphylococcus and 9 streptococcus isolates. After at least 6 months of follow-up, 17 patients were evaluable for efficacy: 10 of 14 (71%) with osteomyelitis and 3 of 3 with vascular-access-associated bacteremias had full resolution of their infections. Inadequate debridement, the presence of metal, and inadequate dosing were likely causes of two failures and two relapses in patients with osteomyelitis. For all but two organisms, teicoplanin MICs were less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml. Patients who responded had median peak and trough serum bactericidal levels at serum dilutions of 1:64 and 1:16; trough levels of teicoplanin in serum were greater than 30 micrograms/ml. Patients did not respond as expected to daily doses of 4 mg/kg of body weight, which consequently were increased to greater than or equal to 15 mg/kg. Audiology testing of 20 patients found 2 with a mild loss of high-frequency hearing; 1 patient complained of tinnitus. Patients tolerated peak levels in serum as high as 127 micrograms/ml and trough levels of 49 micrograms/ml. However, 5 of 18 patients (28%) whose daily dose was greater than or equal to 12 mg/kg developed drug fever and rash and had teicoplanin discontinued. Further study of the antibiotic at such higher doses is needed. 
Effect of the calcium antagonist nicardipine hydrochloride on glucose tolerance and insulin secretion. The calcium antagonist nicardipine was administered to 42 patients at a dose of 60 or 120 mg/day for an average of 7.8 weeks to determine its effects on glucose tolerance and insulin secretion. Glucose tolerance and immunoreactive insulin levels were essentially unchanged by nicardipine regardless of the preexisting level of glucose tolerance. Mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures decreased in all patients. Concentrations of triglycerides decreased and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels increased significantly (p less than 0.05) in association with nicardipine administration. Therefore it is concluded that, regardless of the preexisting level of glucose tolerance, nicardipine exerted hypotensive effects without significant adverse effects on glucose tolerance or insulin secretion. 
Monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials during surgery for middle cerebral artery aneurysms. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were monitored during 53 procedures for aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). "Significant" changes were reported to the surgeon, who took corrective action when possible. Changes in the SEPs were categorized as follows: Type I, no change; Type II, significant change with complete return to baseline; Type III, significant change with incomplete return to baseline; Type IV, complete loss with no return; and Type V, no response at baseline. Only 1 of 37 patients with a Type I SEP had a new neurological deficit, and this was a patient who could not be examined for several days after surgery because he was in a pentobarbital coma. All 4 patients with Type III and IV changes had new postoperative neurological deficits. Perhaps of greater importance, 4 of 5 patients with Type II changes had no new deficit. These patients all had changes in SEPs that were completely reversible by clip adjustment (2), prompt removal of temporary clips (1), and inducing hypertension after aneurysm trapping (1). These cases may, therefore, represent instances in which SEP monitoring allowed the clinicians to prevent a neurological deficit. The MCA supplies the area of the somatosensory cortex that controls the hand. Median nerve SEPs are, therefore, a theoretically ideal monitor during surgery for MCA aneurysms. This study suggests that the results of MCA aneurysm surgery may be accurately predicted and improved with SEP monitoring. 
Clinical diagnosis for metastatic adenocarcinoma of spine of unknown origin. A comparative study. The diagnostic values of the presence of Virchow's node (VN) or rectal shelf (RS) in spinal metastasis from adenocarcinoma of unknown origin were studied prospectively in 60 patients during 1986-1988. These were compared with 14 cases with other malignancies of the spine and 37 controls with nonneoplastic spinal lesions. The diagnosis was confirmed by histologic study in all malignant cases. The results were analyzed by diagnostic test analysis and McNemar chi 2 testing. This yields 18.3-21.6%, 97.2-100%, and 92.8-100% sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value, respectively, for a positive test for VN and RS to differentiate significantly adenocarcinoma from other malignancies and control patients (P less than 0.005). These findings may thus be considered as a simple and economic guide for physicians to determine the proper approach to patients with a spinal lesion suspected to be malignant. 
Indirect laryngoscopic approach for injection of botulinum toxin in spasmodic dysphonia. Spasmodic dysphonia is a focal dystonia that causes a loss of the fine control of intrinsic laryngeal muscles and produces a strained staccato voice. Temporary relief from symptoms has been reported in patients treated with botulinum toxin percutaneously injected into the thyroarytenoid muscle. A newly developed method of treatment differs from reported methods by increasing the accuracy of botulinum toxin placement, reducing soft tissue trauma, and applying basic scientific information about the functional histology of intrinsic laryngeal musculature. Sixteen patients with primarily adductor spasmodic dysphonia were treated. Initial assessment included laryngeal examination by indirect laryngoscopy, videoendoscopy, and stroboscopy, neurology examination (including laryngeal EMG), and vocal function studies with acoustic analysis and aerodynamic studies. A device originally designed for collagen injection allowed the precise microdelivery of toxin to the thyroarytenoid muscle. Indirect laryngoscopy was used to direct the needle, in an attempt to cover a broad area of motor end plates. The minimally effective dose was titrated for each patient, to avoid paralysis and preserve laryngeal function. All patients showed improved voices after treatment. There were no major complications. The basic technique can be performed in the otolaryngologist's office and does not require electromyography equipment or expertise. 
A new approach to the differential diagnosis of a regular tachycardia with a wide QRS complex. BACKGROUND. In the differential diagnosis of a tachycardia with a wide QRS complex (greater than or equal to 0.12 second) diagnostic mistakes are frequent. Therefore, we investigated the reasons for failure of presently available criteria, and we identified new, simpler criteria and incorporated them in a stepwise approach that provides better sensitivity and specificity for making a correct diagnosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. A prospective analysis revealed that current criteria had a poor specificity for the differential diagnosis. The value of four new criteria incorporated in a stepwise approach was prospectively analyzed in a total of 554 tachycardias with a widened QRS complex (384 ventricular and 170 supraventricular). The sensitivity of the four consecutive steps was 0.987, and the specificity was 0.965. CONCLUSIONS. Current criteria for the differential diagnosis between supraventricular tachycardia with aberrant conduction and ventricular tachycardia are frequently absent or suggest the wrong diagnosis. The absence of an RS complex in all precordial leads is easily recognizable and highly specific for the diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia. When an RS complex is present in one or more precordial leads, an RS interval of more than 100 msec is highly specific for ventricular tachycardia. This new stepwise approach may prevent diagnostic mistakes. 
The infectious and hematologic otolaryngic complications of myelosuppressive cancer chemotherapy. The otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon is frequently consulted to evaluate patients before the administration of myelosuppressive cancer chemotherapy. Fifty consecutive patients treated at the University of Pennsylvania Oncology Center were studied before and during chemotherapy for adult leukemia or bone marrow transplantation. Otolaryngic history, physical examination, radiographic studies, and hematologic surveys were analyzed for the duration of therapy in an attempt to identify risk factors for infectious and hematologic otolaryngic complications. Two-thirds of the patient studied experienced untoward effects that required the further attention of an otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon. The various complications and associated correlations with the study parameters before and during chemotherapy are discussed. 
Results of long-term rice bran treatment on stone recurrence in hypercalciuric patients. A series of 182 calcium stone formers with idiopathic hypercalciuria underwent treatment with rice bran for 1 to 94 months. Urinary calcium excretion was considerably reduced, but there was some increase in urinary phosphate and oxalate. Urinary excretion of magnesium and uric acid, serum calcium, magnesium, phosphate, uric acid, parathyroid hormone (PTH) and ALP was unaffected. There were no obvious changes in serum iron, zinc and copper even when patients were treated for long periods. Rice bran was well tolerated in almost all cases and there were no serious side effects; 49 patients have undergone treatment for more than 3 years (average duration of administration 5.09 years). The frequency of new stone formation was drastically reduced (individual stone formation rate (no./year) from 0.720 +/- 0.533 to 0.125 +/- 0.204; group stone formation rate (no./patient-year) from 0.721 to 0.120) compared with the 3-year period before treatment. During treatment, 61.2% of patients remained in remission. Although rice bran therapy should be effective in correcting absorptive hypercalciuria, there may be limits to the overall ability of rice bran monotherapy to prevent recurrence. 
Phase II trial of weekly or biweekly intraperitoneal mitoxantrone in epithelial ovarian cancer. Previous experimental and clinical evaluation has suggested that ovarian cancer is sensitive to the cytotoxic effects of mitoxantrone at concentrations achievable within the peritoneal cavity after intraperitoneal (IP) administration. Unfortunately, the use of the drug delivered IP at high doses (20 mg/m2 in 2 L normal saline [NS]) on a monthly schedule is compromised by severe local effects secondary to the irritant properties of the drug. To reduce toxicity and take advantage of minimal systemic drug exposure following IP administration, we treated 28 patients with a lower drug concentration of mitoxantrone (10 mg/m2 in 2 L NS), but on a weekly or every other week schedule (total, 12 courses). Compared with the monthly program, this regimen caused less pain, allowed for a higher cumulative dose of mitoxantrone to be delivered, and resulted in less serious treatment-related morbidity. Four of 13 assessable patients (31%) whose largest tumor was less than or equal to 1 cm in diameter demonstrated a surgically defined response. All responding patients had failed previously or exhibited a minimal response to cisplatin. Despite the improved toxicity profile of this regimen, the overall response rate was similar to the monthly program, probably secondary to inadequate IP drug distribution in many patients. Future investigative efforts using IP mitoxantrone as therapy for ovarian cancer might focus on developing methods to improve drug delivery to all sites of tumor within the peritoneal cavity (eg, intraoperative therapy, increased treatment volumes, and antiinflammatory agents to reduce adhesion formation). 
The influence of the renin gene on alcohol consumption in Dahl rats. A rat renin allele (the S-allele) has been identified in Dahl rats which cosegregates with increases in blood pressure. Rats with a double dose of the allele--the salt-sensitive hypertensive rats--have low renin activity compared with the salt-resistant hypertensive rat that does not have this S-allele. Alcohol consumption in rats has also been shown to vary with renin activity, and the possible involvement of renin activity in the genetics of alcohol consumption was suggested by previous work showing that the alcohol-preferring P line of selected rats had low renin levels. In the present study we examined alcohol consumption in a group of inbred Dahl rats, which have a double dose of the S renin allele, and in a group of selected Dahl rats, which have only a single dose of this S-allele. After an initial acclimation period, these two groups were first given daily 1-hr access to ascending concentrations of alcohol (3%, 6%, 8% w/v) over a 34-day period followed by continuous access to alcohol for a further 10 days. Water and food were always available. Regardless of whether alcohol was rationed or continuously available, the rats with the double dose of the S-allele drank significantly more alcohol than the rats that had only a single dose of this allele. These findings suggest that genetically mediated alterations in the renin gene may exert a significant influence on alcohol consumption and may be a component in the etiology of alcoholism. 
Electrothrombosis of saccular aneurysms via endovascular approach. Part 2: Preliminary clinical experience. Fifteen patients with high-risk intracranial saccular aneurysms were treated using electrolytically detachable coils introduced via an endovascular approach. The patients ranged in age from 21 to 69 years. The most frequent clinical presentation was subarachnoid hemorrhage (eight cases). Considerable thrombosis of the aneurysm (70% to 100%) was achieved in all 15 patients, and preservation of the parent artery was obtained in 14. Although temporary neurological deterioration due to the technique was recorded in one patient, no permanent neurological deficit was observed in this series and there were no deaths. It is believed that this new technology is a viable alternative in the management of patients with high-risk intracranial saccular aneurysms. It may also play an important role in the occlusion of aneurysms in the acute phase of subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
The impact of National Health Service Corps physicians in the lowering perinatal mortality rate in Dade County, Florida. In some parts of Dade County, Florida, perinatal mortality rates have revealed serious problems in the delivery of health care to poor pregnant women. From 1982-1985, the reported perinatal mortality rates varied from 32-36 per 1000 live births, more than double the national average. Under the leadership of the Primary Health Care Consortium of Dade County (a federation of community health centers and other primary care providers), National Health Service Corps obstetricians and pediatricians served inner-city, medically needy patients as part of a coordinated perinatal plan from 1987-1989. Data on fetal and neonatal deaths, collected from census tracts adjacent to the community health centers, were used to study the impact of Corps obstetrician and pediatrician placement. The respective perinatal mortality rates were compared with those of 1986 as historic controls. Within a year, the overall perinatal mortality rate was reduced by 45%. As a result, an estimated 320 lives were saved between 1987-1989. This public health achievement represents a measurable impact due to assignment of National Health Service Corps physicians and can be used as a working model to reduce perinatal mortality in medically underserved communities in the United States. 
Elevation of ambulatory systolic blood pressure in hypertensive smokers. A case-control study. Although smoking raises blood pressure, the office blood pressure measurements of smokers are the same as, or lower than, those of nonsmokers. To resolve this paradox, we compared the office and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressures of 59 untreated hypertensive smokers with 118 nonsmoking hypertensives matched for age, sex, and race. The office blood pressures of the smoking and nonsmoking groups were 141/93 and 142/93 mm Hg, respectively. The awake ambulatory systolic blood pressure was significantly higher in the smokers (145 vs 140 mm Hg). This difference was greater among patients over the age of 50 years (153 vs 142 mmHg), and absent among patients under 50 years (140 vs 139 mm Hg). Blood pressures during sleep did not differ between the two groups (121/76 vs 123/77 mm Hg). We conclude that, among white hypertensives above the age of 50 years, smokers maintain a higher daytime ambulatory systolic blood pressure than nonsmokers even though blood pressure measured in the office is similar. 
Bilateral central retinal vein occlusion as an initial manifestation of pseudotumor cerebri. Pseudotumor cerebri, or benign intracranial hypertension, is known to produce visual symptoms. Central retinal vein occlusion has been linked with pseudotumor cerebri but rarely as an initial manifestation. We describe a 46-year-old patient--who was obese and mildly hypertensive with bilateral central retinal vein occlusions--who was subsequently diagnosed as having pseudotumor cerebri. In patients with simultaneous bilateral central retinal vein occlusions, unusual underlying systemic conditions such as pseudotumor cerebri should be considered in the diagnostic evaluation. 
Laser laparoscopic management of large endometriomas. Forty-seven patients underwent laser laparoscopic management of endometriomas from 3 to 12 cm in diameter. Eighteen patients had infertility, 15 had pelvic pain, and 14 had both. The types of laser used were the carbon dioxide, argon, and potassium-titanyl-phosphate. There were no surgical complications. Twelve of 32 patients with infertility achieved pregnancy after the initial procedure. Subsequently, 2 patients conceived after a second-look procedure. Twenty-three of 30 patients with pelvic pain reported improvement or resolution. We confirm the efficacy of operative laparoscopy using lasers in the management of large ovarian endometriomas. 
Serum cholesterol: attitudes and behavior of family practice residents BACKGROUND. Given the current health promotion efforts regarding coronary artery disease, more information is needed about residents' attitudes and behaviors that relate to identification and management of patients with elevated serum cholesterol levels. METHODS. Family practice residents from eight US programs (N = 128) were surveyed in 1989 to assess their attitudes and reported practice patterns. Resident survey data were compared, when feasible, to published data from 1986 and 1990 surveys of practicing physicians performed by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. RESULTS. The use of faculty "key contacts" resulted in a 90% response rate (N = 115). Both residents and practicing physicians attributed a high degree of importance to cholesterol as a risk factor. Residents reported more frequent routine screening of middle-aged men than the routine screening rate of practicing physicians in 1986 (P less than .01). Residents reported less frequent screening of younger and older adults than of middle-aged men (P less than .001). Residents' threshold for the use of cholesterol-lowering medication was lower than that of practicing physicians surveyed in 1986, but higher than that of physicians surveyed in 1990. Compared with practicing physicians, residents did not believe they were as well prepared to counsel patients about dietary change or as successful when they tried to help patients make changes; residents reported a significantly higher rate of referral to dietitians (P less than .01). CONCLUSIONS. Residents may need more education regarding screening guidelines for children and young adults. A health promotion skills gap may exist that explains reported discrepancies between self-report and actual behavior and indicates that residency educators may need to pay more attention to fostering dietary assessment and counseling skills in their residents. 
Normal serum levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in mild to moderate essential hypertension. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a highly potent vasodilator, is expressed from the calcitonin-gene and has been localized to nerve fibers of the cardiovascular system, suggesting involvement in the physiologic regulation of vascular tone. In this investigation serum concentrations of CGRP were measured in patients with untreated mild to moderate essential hypertension (WHO I-II) and compared with concentrations in sex- and age-matched normal controls to assess a possible relationship between changes in concentrations of CGRP and this condition. The study showed no significant difference in concentrations of CGRP between patients and the normotensive controls. However, a weak but significant positive correlation was found between systolic (SBP), diastolic (DBP), mean blood pressures (MBP), and circulating concentrations of CGRP when calculated for all individuals included in the study. No correlation was found between heart rates (HR) and concentrations of CGRP. In the normotensive control group, but not in patients with hypertension, a significant positive correlation was present between body weights and concentrations of CGRP. These findings do not support the hypothesis that low expression of CGRP plays a causal role in essential hypertension, but the results do not exclude a potential receptor defect for CGRP to be involved in the disease. 
Constitutive expression and role in growth regulation of interleukin-1 and multiple cytokine receptors in a biphenotypic leukemic cell line. A cell line (B1) was established from the bone marrow of a patient with a relapse of acute leukemia characterized by a 4;11 chromosomal translocation and biphenotypic features of early B and myeloid lineages. Analysis of the growth requirements of this cell line showed density-dependent growth and secretion of an autostimulatory growth factor, suggesting an autocrine mechanism. Several lines of evidence implicate the participation of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the autocrine growth regulation of B1 cells. These cells constitutively express the messenger RNA (mRNA) for IL-1 and IL-1 receptor and secrete IL-1; recombinant IL-1 stimulated the growth of colonies when cells were seeded at low density, and anti-IL-1 antibodies inhibited the growth of colonies with cells seeded at higher density. B1 cells do not express detectable levels of mRNA for any of the other cytokines tested, and other cytokines failed to support the growth of B1 cells at low density. In addition, B1 cells express multiple cytokine receptor genes, including the receptors for IL-6, IL-7, tumor necrosis factor and gamma-interferon. Addition of the respective cytokines to the B1 cells resulted in inhibition of the growth of leukemic cells in vitro. The multiplicity of growth-inhibitory cytokine receptors on this leukemic cell line might be due to its biphenotypic lineage and may suggest new therapeutic possibilities in controlling leukemic cell proliferation. 
Cephalometric measurements in snorers, non-snorers, and patients with sleep apnoea. Cephalometry is often used to assess patients with sleep apnoea but whether these measurements differ from those in non-apnoeic snorers and how they are influenced by age is not clear. Cephalometric radiographs of patients with sleep apnoea were compared with those of snorers without sleep apnoea and those of non-snorers. Fifty two snorers with suspected sleep apnoea had a conventional sleep study and were divided into two groups: those with an apnoea-hypopnoea index greater than 10/h (n = 40, sleep apnoea group) and those whose apnoea-hypopnoea index was 10/h or less (n = 12, snorer group). The cephalometric measurements in these patients were compared with those of 34 non-snoring control subjects. Controls were subdivided into two groups: control group 1 included 17 subjects similar in age to the sleep apnoea and snorer groups (mean (SD) age 50.0 (10.9), 50.7 (9.4), and 50.6 (9.7) years); control group 2 included 15 young men (25.4 (2.6) years). The distance from the mandibular plane to the hyoid bone (MP-H) and the length of the soft palate were greater in the patients with sleep apnoea (28.7 (7.8) and 43.6 (5.0) mm) than in the snorers (23.7 (4.2) and 40.3 (4.9 mm). The MP-H was similar in snorers and age matched control subjects, but was significantly greater in the older than in the younger control subjects (22.1 (6.1) vs 17.0 (6.8]. The soft palate was longer in subjects who snored (both sleep apnoea patients and snorers) than in control subjects. The MP-H distance significantly correlated with age for all subjects (snorers and controls) and for the control subjects alone. This study shows that non-apnoeic snorers have cephalometric abnormalities that differ from those of patients with sleep apnoea and that cephalometric values are influenced by the subject's age. 
Unexpected immunoreactivities of intermediate filament antibodies in human brain and brain tumors. Immunoreactivities of 35 different monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) that detect intermediate filaments were studied systematically on serial cryostat sections of 14 well-defined human gliomas (five astrocytomas, three oligodendrogliomas, six glioblastomas) and on normal brain. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin, desmin, neurofilaments, and broad-specificity keratin MAbs, as well as MAbs that recognize several or only single keratin polypeptides, were used. Unexpected reactivities were surprisingly frequent. As these may lead to diagnostic confusion and misinterpretation on this material, the authors investigated these phenomena more thoroughly. Four major sources of artifactual staining were found: 1) positive staining attributable to the rabbit gamma G immunoglobulins used in the alkaline phosphatase anti-alkaline phosphatase technique; 2) certain desmin and keratin MAbs cross-reacted with astrocytic glia and with other brain-specific epitopes; 3) technical difficulties; 4) some MAbs directed against neurofilaments and keratins showed unexpected reactivities only on individual anaplastic gliomas. The implications of these findings for intermediate filament typing of neuropathologic material are discussed. 
A novel behavioral model of neuropathic pain disorders produced in rats by partial sciatic nerve injury. Partial nerve injury is the main cause of causalgiform pain disorders in humans. We present here a novel animal model of this condition. In rats we unilaterally ligated about half of the sciatic nerve high in the thigh. Within a few hours after the operation, and for several months thereafter, the rats developed guarding behavior of the ipsilateral hind paw and licked it often, suggesting the possibility of spontaneous pain. The plantar surface of the foot was evenly hyperesthetic to non-noxious and noxious stimuli. None of the rats autotomized. There was a sharp decrease in the withdrawal thresholds bilaterally in response to repetitive Von Frey hair stimulation at the plantar side. After a series of such stimuli in the operated side, light touch elicited aversive responses, suggesting allodynia to touch. The withdrawal thresholds to CO2 laser heat pulses were markedly lowered bilaterally. Suprathreshold noxious heat pulses elicited exaggerated responses unilaterally, suggesting thermal hyperalgesia. Pin-prick evoked such exaggerated responses bilaterally (mechanical hyperalgesia). In a companion report, we show that these abnormalities critically depend on the sympathetic outflow. Based on the immediate onset and long-lasting perpetuation of similar symptoms, such as touch-evoked allodynia and hyperalgesia, and the resemblance of the contralateral phenomena to 'mirror image' pains in some humans with causalgia, we suggest that this preparation may serve as a model for syndromes of the causalgiform variety that are triggered by partial nerve injury and maintained by sympathetic activity. 
Susceptibility of normal human joint tissue to viruses. A model system has been developed to investigate the comparative ability of different viruses to replicate and persist intraarticularly. The viruses chosen for study were rubella, mumps, Coxsackie B4, adenovirus and varicella zoster, a selection of viruses with different degrees of association with joint symptoms in clinical studies. Our results showed that these viruses demonstrated a range of abilities to infect and persist in human joint tissue cultured in vitro. The most arthritogenic viruses, rubella, and to a lesser extent mumps, replicated and penetrated deeply into the synovial membrane. In contrast, the other 3 viruses were much less arthrotropic, and may only induce arthritis by immunopathological mechanisms. 
Intermittent claudication as a manifestation of silent myocardial ischemia: a pilot study. One hundred consecutive patients with intermittent claudication were screened noninvasively with electrocardiography chest wall mapping stress test and transcutaneous aortovelography during bicycle ergometry. Electrocardiographic chest wall stress testing indicated three-vessel coronary disease in 25 patients and left anterior descending plus circumflex (left main stem equivalent) disease in seven. In these 32 patients transcutaneous aortovelography demonstrated a decrease in stroke distance (an index of cardiac stroke volume) (median, -28%; 90% range, +5% to -48%), and coronary angiography confirmed the presence and severity of the disease. The claudication distance ranged between 50 and 250 meters. After myocardial revascularization or medical therapy a significant increase occurred in the stroke distance after exercise (median, +20; 90% range, +40% to -25%); also a significant increase in the postexercise pressure index and a reduction in the recovery time (p less than 0.01). No change occurred in the ankle/pressure index at rest. Twelve patients were able to walk without being limited by claudication; 15 reported improvement with a two to tenfold increase in claudication distance. No change occurred in three. The results indicate that silent myocardial ischemia is a common finding in patients with intermittent claudication. It produces left ventricular dysfunction and a decrease in stroke volume leading to a large fall in ankle pressure and early onset of claudication during exercise. Niltrates and myocardial revascularization tend to reverse this. 
Intractable ulcerating enterocolitis of infancy. Five children (three boys, two girls) presenting in the first year of life with intractable diarrhoea had a number of features in common. All had ulcerating stomatitis, four had partial villous atrophy on small intestinal biopsy, all had colitis characterised by large ulcers with overhanging edges, and four had severe perianal disease; no stool pathogens were detected. Treatment with steroids, sulphasalazine, and azathioprine was unsuccessful. All five required subtotal colectomy. Four were children of consanguinous marriages, two were siblings of Pakistani origin, two were cousins of Arab origin, and the fifth was Portuguese. Although the diagnoses of Behcet's disease and Crohn's disease were considered, it appears that these children represent a distinct inherited condition affecting the whole gastrointestinal tract, particularly the colon. 
Improving survival in gastric cancer: review of operative mortality in English language publications from 1970. In this review of English language publications from 1970, operative mortality following surgery for gastric cancer has been analysed. Operative mortality has declined in series reporting operations in successive decades to 1970, 1980 and 1990. Series reporting patients having surgery for gastric cancer in the decade to 1990 show a mean operative mortality rate of 7.8 per cent (median 4.6 per cent). This improvement may have contributed to the declining mortality rates for gastric cancer in the face of unchanging surgical workload. Results of operations for gastric cancer should be reported in a standard manner. 
Aetiological parallel between anal cancer and cervical cancer. It has been postulated that an infectious agent and/or specific sexual behaviour is involved in the aetiology of anal cancer, in analogy with the aetiology established for cancer of the cervix. A case-control study of 29,648 women with cancers registered in the Danish Cancer Registry during 1968-87 tested the hypothesis that anal cancer patients were more likely than patients with colon, stomach, or vulva cancer to have had a previous diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) or invasive cervical cancer. The odds ratio of CIN, adjusted for age and year of diagnosis, for anal vs colon cancer was 5.2 (95% confidence interval [CI] 3.3-8.3), that for anal vs stomach cancer 3.6 (2.1-6.0), and that for anal vs vulva cancer 1.6 (0.9-2.9). The median time from diagnosis of CIN to diagnosis of the registered cancer was 151 months for anal, 112 months for vulva, 114 months for colon, and 126 months for stomach cancer. The association with previous invasive cervical cancer was also investigated; no patient with cervical cancer in this second analysis had been included in the CIN analysis. The odds ratios were similar. In addition, anal cancer patients were significantly more likely to have had cervical cancer than were patients with vulva cancer (odds ratio 1.8 [1.0-3.9]). The strong association between anal cancer and CIN/invasive cervical cancer suggests that these cancers share common risk factors. The association is at least as strong as that between cervical and vulva cancer. 
Reversible tricuspid stenosis. Demonstration with two-dimensional echocardiography and continuous-wave Doppler. We report a case of pseudo-tricuspid stenosis as a result of extrinsic compression of the tricuspid valve by a large right-sided pericardial effusion. Two-dimensional echocardiography and continuous-wave Doppler enabled accurate noninvasive diagnosis and hemodynamic assessment. 
Positive serum antibody and negative tissue staining for Helicobacter pylori in subjects with atrophic body gastritis. Helicobacter pylori is rarely found in gastric biopsy specimens from individuals with atrophic gastritis of the body mucosa. To determine if subjects with atrophic body gastritis have evidence of previous infection with H. pylori, immunoglobulin G antibody to H. pylori was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in sera of 399 Finnish subjects. In 124 subjects, multiple biopsy specimens from body and antrum had been evaluated for the presence of H. pylori by Giemsa staining. Antibody correlated well with H. pylori staining except in the subgroup with atrophic body gastritis, in whom the prevalence of seropositivity (86%) was significantly greater than the prevalence of positive staining (33%) (P less than 0.001). Twenty-five subjects had positive antibody and negative staining. This group had a significantly higher prevalence of atrophic body gastritis (80%), lower maximal acid output, lower serum pepsinogen I levels, and higher serum gastrin concentrations than did seropositive subjects with H. pylori. These data suggest that most patients with atrophic body gastritis, despite having a low incidence of current overt infection, have been infected with H. pylori at some point in their lives. 
Superoxide production by Crohn's disease neutrophils. Neutrophil superoxide anion production was measured in healthy subjects and in patients with quiescent and active Crohn's disease using superoxide dismutase inhibitable cytochrome C reduction. Three stimuli were used: phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA1), phorbol 20-oxo-20-deoxy 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA2), and Candida albicans in serum. Normal neutrophils produced significantly more superoxide anion than Crohn's disease neutrophils with both PMA1 (mean (SD) 9.6 (2.2) v 8.6 (1.8) nmol/10(6) cells/5 minutes, p = 0.04) and PMA2 (1.8 (0.8) v 0.8 (0.77) nmol/10(6) cells/5 minutes, p = 0.00004). With C albicans in serum, normal and Crohn's disease neutrophils produced similar amounts of superoxide anion (4.4 (1.5) v 4.3 (1.7) nmol/10(6) cells/30 minutes, not significant). Results were independent of disease activity. Superoxide anion production by PMA-stimulated Crohn's disease neutrophils is significantly lower than by normal neutrophils. 
Increased circulating concentration of the N-terminus of the atrial natriuretic factor prohormone in persons with pheochromocytomas. To investigate the possible relationship of hypertension and the N-terminus of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) prohormone which contains two peptides [i.e. pro ANF-(1-30) and pro-ANF-(31-67)] with blood pressure-lowering effects, we examined the circulating levels of the N-terminus of the ANF prohormone in three patients with pheochromocytomas before surgery, during an increase in their blood pressure with surgical manipulation of their tumors, and after surgery when their blood pressures returned to normal. The circulating levels of the whole N-terminus [amino acids 1-98; pro-ANF-(1-98)] and pro-ANF-(31-67) from the midportion of the N-terminus of the ANF prohormone were increased 2-fold in patients with both extraadrenal and intraadrenal pheochromocytomas. In both the intraadrenal and extraadrenal patients N-terminus [pro-ANF-(1-98)] and pro-ANF-(31-67) circulating levels increased further during surgical manipulation and returned to normal after surgical removal of their respective tumors. Each of these pheochromocytomas was found to have pro-ANF-(1-30) and -(31-67)-binding sites that were functional, since they could enhance the guanylate cyclase-cGMP system 2-fold in these pheochromocytomas. The entire 126 amino acids of the prohormone were present within each of the pheochromocytomas, since both the whole N-terminus and C-terminus (i.e. ANF) of the prohormone were present. Examination of the pheochromocytomas by electron microscopy revealed electron-dense granules similar to those in the heart, which have been associated with the synthesis and storage of the ANF prohormone. We conclude that 1) the whole N-terminus [pro-ANF-(1-98)] and pro-ANF-(31-67) of the ANF prohormone circulate at higher concentrations in persons with pheochromocytomas and return to normal with removal of the tumors; 2) pheochromocytomas contain specific binding sites for pro-ANF-(1-30) and -(31-67); 3) these binding sites are functional, since pro-ANF-(1-30) and -(31-67) could enhance the enzyme guanylate cyclase within these tumors; and 4) the entire 126 amino acids of the ANF prohormone are present within these tumors, which have electron-dense granules associated with polypeptide hormone synthesis, suggesting that the ANF prohormone is being synthesized within the pheochromocytomas. 
Use of human recombinant erythropoietin to correct severe preoperative anemia. The risks of homologous blood transfusion are well known. Herein, we describe the successful preoperative use of human recombinant erythropoietin to correct severe anemia in a patient refusing transfusion. This case report emphasizes the important perioperative role human recombinant erythropoietin may play in the future. 
Cancer staging may have different meanings in academic and community hospitals. We investigated differences in lung cancer care and outcome between academic and community settings for all lung cancer patients diagnosed during 1973-1976 in New Hampshire and Vermont. Trained abstracters reviewed hospital charts to record personal, diagnostic, and clinical information, and survival was determined for all patients through the end of 1979. Patients diagnosed in university hospital cancer centers underwent more staging procedures and tended to be assigned to a higher stage than similar patients diagnosed in community hospitals. When tumor stage was considered as a covariable in a survival analysis, these patients appeared to have a lower mortality rate both for non-small cell tumors (mortality rate ratio, 95% confidence interval = 0.81, 0.71-0.91) and for small cell tumors (0.71, 0.55-0.91). When functional status rather than tumor stage was used to adjust for disease severity, there was no apparent survival advantage for university patients with non-small cell cancer (0.96, 0.85-1.09) and the lower mortality for small cell cancers (0.76, 0.59-0.97) was attenuated, although still statistically significant. We conclude that inconsistently-collected data on clinical stage can complicate comparisons of prognosis between cancer patients from different types of hospitals and that measures of performance status may be more useful indicators of disease severity in population based studies. 
Changes in intracranial CSF volume after lumbar puncture and their relationship to post-LP headache. Post-lumbar puncture (LP) headache may be due to "low CSF pressure", leading to stretching of pain sensitive intracranial structures. The low intracranial pressure is secondary to net loss of intracranial CSF. It has, however, not been possible to measure intracranial CSF volume accurately during life until recently. Intracranial CSF volume can now be measured non-invasively by a MRI technique. The changes in intracranial CSF volume were studied in 20 patients who had LP. Total intracranial CSF volume was reduced in 19 of the 20 patients 24 hours after LP (range -1.8 mls to -158.6 mls). Most of the CSF was lost from the cortical sulci. Very large reductions in intracranial CSF volume were frequently related to post-LP headache but some patients developed headache with relatively little alteration in the intracranial CSF volume. There was not a measurable change in position of the intracranial structures following LP. 
Prognostic value of proliferating cell nuclear antigen in gastric carcinoma. A new monoclonal antibody to proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), PC10, which can be used on routinely processed tissue, was applied to 93 cases of gastric carcinoma. Significant intra-tumoural variation in staining occurred. In addition to a PCNA index (percentage of positive cells per 1000 tumour cells), a semiquantitative PCNA grading system was devised, based on estimates of less than or more than 50% of positive tumour cells in whole sections. Neither PCNA index nor PCNA grade showed any correlation with established histological variables, tumour stage, or the presence of lymph node metastases. No significant correlation was observed between PCNA index and S + G2M phase fraction measured by flow cytometric analysis. To analyse survival tumours with PCNA indices above and below the median level (41%) were compared. Those with a higher index tended to have a worse prognosis, but when PCNA grade was considered, it was found to have definite independent prognostic value, tumours of low grade surviving better than those of high grade. The ability of semiquantitative PCNA grading to allow for intra-tumoural variation suggests it may have advantages over absolute counting, which is prone to sampling error when tumour heterogeneity is a major factor. The prognostic value of PC10 staining in gastric carcinoma is therefore promising. 
Renal oncocytomas--an Australian experience. A review was made of 24 cases of renal oncocytoma seen between 1978 and 1989. There was considerable overlap between the clinical presentation of renal oncocytomas and renal carcinomas. Although pre-operative radiological, cytological and pathological investigations may suggest the presence of an oncocytoma, these studies cannot make a definitive diagnosis. We recommend that these tumours be treated as potential renal carcinomas until post-operative microscopic evaluation proves otherwise. 
Transient myocardial ischemia during daily life in rest and exertional angina pectoris and comparison of effectiveness of metoprolol versus nifedipine. The clinical characteristics of 65 patients with mixed angina were classified by means of (1) a questionnaire investigating the proportion of symptoms occurring at rest and on effort, (2) an exercise stress test, (3) 24-hour ambulatory Holter monitoring, and (4) coronary arteriography. According to the questionnaire, the proportion of effort-induced anginal episodes ranged from 1 to 99%. The ischemic threshold during exercise testing ranged from 110 x 10(2) to 350 x 10(2) mm Hg x beats/min. At least 1 episode of ST-segment depression was observed in 29 of the 65 patients during Holter monitoring. Ischemic episodes during Holter monitoring were more frequent (p less than 0.05) in patients reporting greater than or equal to 50% of anginal attacks on effort, with moderate to severe limitation of exercise capacity and with multivessel coronary artery disease. The effect on ambulatory ischemia of a 6-week treatment with a beta blocker (metoprolol CR, 200 mg once daily) or a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist (nifedipine retard 20 mg twice daily) were then compared according to a double-blind, parallel group design. Metoprolol significantly reduced the number and duration of the ischemic episodes during daily life (p less than 0.05) irrespective of the patients' clinical characteristics. Nifedipine was ineffective, particularly in patients with angina predominantly on effort and with a moderate to severe reduction in exercise tolerance. It is concluded that in patients with mixed angina, ischemic episodes during daily life are more likely to occur in patients with a clinical presentation suggesting poor coronary reserve. 
Liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease, viral hepatitis, and hepatic neoplasms. In closing, it is important to note that the indications for liver transplantation are not static but rather are remarkably dynamic and capable of change over time. Thus yesterday's major indications can become relative contraindications, while yesterday's absolute contraindications have become today's nuisances. The goal for physicians who care for individuals with problems such as alcoholic liver disease, viral hepatitis, and hepatic cancer should be to develop new strategies of care that will ultimately eliminate these diseases as problems, rather than eliminating individuals with such health problems from currently available health options. In other words, physicians who accept the responsibility for a patient's life should be searching for the best form of therapy available for their patient rather than examining the reasons that exist for limiting one's choice in health care. 
The value of class IC antiarrhythmic drugs for acute conversion of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter to sinus rhythm. In a single-blind randomized study, the efficacy and safety of intravenous propafenone (2 mg/kg body weight per 10 min) versus flecainide (2 mg/kg per 10 min) were assessed in 50 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. Treatment was considered successful if sinus rhythm occurred within 1 h. Conversion to sinus was achieved in 11 (55%) of 20 patients with atrial fibrillation treated with propafenone and in 18 (90%) of 20 with atrial fibrillation treated with flecainide (p less than 0.02). If atrial fibrillation was present less than or equal to 24 h, conversion to sinus rhythm was achieved in 8 (57%) of 14 patients in the propafenone group and 13 (93%) of 14 in the flecainide group (p less than 0.05). Atrial flutter was converted in two (40%) of five patients treated with propafenone and in one (20%) of five with flecainide (p = NS). Mean time to conversion was 16 +/- 10 min in the propafenone group versus 18 +/- 13 min in the flecainide group (p = NS). QRS lengthening (83 +/- 15 to 99 +/- 20 ms) was observed only in the patients treated with flecainide (p less than 0.001). Patients successfully treated with propafenone showed significantly higher plasma levels than those whose arrhythmia did not convert to sinus rhythm. Transient adverse effects were more frequent in the flecainide group (40%) than in the propafenone group (8%) (p less than 0.01). In conclusion, at a dose of 2 mg/kg in 10 min, flecainide is more effective than propafenone for conversion of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. However, considering the propafenone plasma levels and very few adverse effects, the dose or infusion rate, or both, used in the propafenone group may not have been sufficient to achieve an optimal effect. Neither drug seems very effective in patients with atrial flutter. 
Intracerebral hemorrhage related to cerebral amyloid angiopathy and t-PA treatment. Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) has been approved as thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, but this agent can cause serious bleeding complications including intracerebral hemorrhages. Mechanisms underlying the development of these hemorrhages have not been clarified. We report a patient who developed two intracerebral hemorrhages shortly after receiving t-PA for the treatment of an acute myocardial infarction, and who was found to have cerebral amyloid angiopathy at autopsy. Staining of cortical sections with Congo red and an antibody directed against beta amyloid protein (A4 peptide) disclosed specific involvement of most of the subarachnoid and superficial cortical vessels in the region of the two hemorrhages. Based on the findings in this patient and in 6 additional patients reported recently, it is likely that cerebral amyloid angiopathy plays a pathogenic role in some intracerebral hemorrhages associated with the administration of t-PA. The cautious use of t-PA with heparin in patients who are elderly or demented may be advisable. 
The initiation of failure in cemented femoral components of hip arthroplasties. We studied 16 femora retrieved at post-mortem from symptomless patients who had a satisfactory cemented total hip arthroplasty from two weeks to 17 years earlier, with the aim of delineating the initial mechanisms involved in loosening. Only one specimen showed radiographic evidence of loosening; the other 15 were stable to mechanical testing at 17.0 Nm of torque. In all 16 specimens, the cement-bone interface was intact with little fibrous tissue formation. By contrast, separation at the cement-prosthesis interface and fractures in the cement mantle were frequent. The most common early feature was debonding of the cement from the metal, seen at the proximal and distal ends of the prosthesis. Specimens which had been in place for longer also showed circumferential fractures in the cement, near the cement-metal interface, and radial fractures extending from this interface into the cement and sometimes to the bony interface. The most extensive cement fractures appeared to have started at or near sharp corners in the metal, or where the cement mantle was thin or incomplete. Fractures were also related to voids in the cement. The time relationship in this series suggested that long-term failure of the fixation of cemented femoral components was primarily mechanical, starting with debonding at the interface between the cement and the prosthesis, and continuing as slowly developing fractures in the cement mantle. 
Epicardial coronary artery tone and reactivity in patients with normal coronary arteriograms and reduced coronary flow reserve (syndrome X) The vasomotor response of proximal and distal angiographically normal coronary artery segments was studied in 12 patients with syndrome X, 17 age- and gender-matched patients with chronic stable angina and 10 control subjects with atypical chest pain and a normal coronary arteriogram. Ergonovine (300 micrograms by intravenous injection) and isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg by intracoronary injection) were administered to all patients. Computerized coronary artery diameter measurement (angiographically normal segments only) was carried out before and after the administration of ergonovine and nitrate. Baseline intraluminal diameters (mean +/- SEM) of proximal and distal coronary segments were not significantly different in control subjects and patients with syndrome X or coronary artery disease (proximal 2.88 +/- 0.19, 3.01 +/- 0.13 and 2.86 +/- 0.13 mm; distal 1.57 +/- 0.09, 1.70 +/- 0.10 and 1.61 +/- 0.06 mm, respectively). With ergonovine, proximal segments constricted by 10 +/- 2%, 7 +/- 2% and 11 +/- 3% and distal segments by 12 +/- 3%, 14 +/- 3% and 14 +/- 2% in control subjects and patients with syndrome X or coronary artery disease, respectively (p = NS). With isosorbide dinitrate, proximal coronary segments dilated by 11 +/- 2%, 10 +/- 2% and 8 +/- 2% (p = NS) and distal segments by 15 +/- 2%, 11 +/- 3% and 13 +/- 2% (p = NS) in control subjects and patients with syndrome X or coronary artery disease, respectively. Within groups, constriction in response to ergonovine and dilation in response to nitrate were not significantly different in proximal and distal segments. 
Surgical evaluation of Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Experience with 110 children. Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a disorder of unknown origin that is probably related to an autoimmune phenomenon. This report concerns 110 children (mean age, 6.2 years; range, 6 months to 14 years) with Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Seventy-two (65%) had abdominal pain associated with nausea and vomiting, bloody stool, and upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Sixty patients with abdominal pain were evaluated and treated conservatively. However, 12 patients underwent laparotomy. Six underwent unnecessary appendectomy for wrongly diagnosed appendicitis. Bowel resection was performed in one patient for an obstructive ileal lesion. Six additional patients had intussusception; surgery was required in three, while barium enema reduction was successfully accomplished in three others. Massive gastric hemorrhage required ligation, vagotomy, and pyloroplasty in two instances. One child with severe scrotal pain, hemorrhage, and swelling underwent unnecessary scrotal exploration. Four additional patients with similar symptoms avoided operation after a testicular scintiscan demonstrated good blood flow. A high index of suspicion and early diagnosis of Henoch-Schonlein purpura based on clinical, roentgenographic, and laboratory findings may avoid unnecessary operations in most cases. However, life-threatening complications (hemorrhage, obstruction, and intussusception) may occur and require operative intervention. All of the patients survived. 
Surgically induced endometriosis does not alter peritoneal factors in the rabbit model. OBJECTIVE: It was the purpose of this study to examine the cause and effect relationship between alterations in peritoneal factors and the presence of ectopic endometrium in the rabbit model. DESIGN: Forty rabbits had autologous endometrial or omental (control) tissue surgically implanted. Peritoneal fluid (PF) volume, macrophage number, and macrophage activation, as well as the number of implants with adhesions, were compared with values obtained during the initial surgery. The effect of hormonal treatment on these factors was evaluated at a third laparotomy. RESULTS: There was a significant increase (P less than 0.05) of adhesions in animals with endometrial implants. Peritoneal fluid volume, macrophage number, or macrophage activation were not increased in rabbits with endometrial implants as compared with controls, nor was there a response to hormonal manipulation. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that PF volume, macrophage number, and macrophage activation are not altered by endometrial implants in the rabbit model. This suggests that the increase in these peritoneal factors in women with endometriosis may not be caused exclusively by the presence of ectopic endometrial tissue. 
Jugular venous 'a' wave in dilated cardiomyopathy: sign of abbreviated right ventricular filling time. OBJECTIVE--To study the mechanisms underlying the high venous pressure often seen in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. DESIGN--Retrospective and prospective examination of the pattern of flow in the superior vena cava, cardiac echo-Doppler studies, and recordings of the jugular venous pulse. SETTING--A tertiary referral cardiac centre. PATIENTS PARTICIPANTS--23 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, all with functional mitral and tricuspid regurgitation. RESULTS--Two patterns of venous pulse were seen: a dominant 'a' wave and 'x' descent, with systolic flow in the superior vena cava (group 1, n = 11), and a dominant 'v' wave with 'y' descent and diastolic flow in the superior vena cava (group 2, n = 12). A comparison of group 1 and group 2 showed: age (mean (SD] 58 (12) v 61 (6) years, left ventricular end diastolic dimension 7.0 (0.7) cm in both groups, right ventricular short axis 3.3 (0.6) v 3.6 (0.5) cm and long axis 7.3 (0.5) v 7.1 (0.7) cm, and duration of tricuspid regurgitation 350 (65) v 370 (50) ms. The RR interval (550 (100) v 680 (80) ms) and right ventricular filling time (150 (30) v 290 (50) ms) were significantly shorter in group 1. In all patients in group 2 right ventricular filling time was more than 200 ms with separate E and A waves on the tricuspid Doppler echocardiogram, while in all group 1 patients it was less than 200 ms with a single summation peak. In nine patients in group 1, the right ventricular filling time was limited by prolonged tricuspid regurgitation and in the remaining two by prolonged isovolumic relaxation time (215 (80) ms), so that it was consistently significantly less than that of the left ventricle. CONCLUSION--In patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, right ventricular filling time may be so short that it limits stroke volume. Such patients can be recognised by a dominant 'a' wave on the jugular venous pulse. Patients in whom the right ventricular filling time was longer showed a dominant 'v' wave. Both groups can present as "congestive heart failure". 
Impaired response of atrial natriuretic factor to blood volume expansion in acute right ventricular infarction. To assess the role of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in right ventricular (RV) infarction, 30 patients with inferior wall acute myocardial infarction (15 with RV involvement) and normal left heart filling pressures were studied 39 +/- 12 hours after the onset of symptoms. Serial measurements of cardiac output, right atrial, pulmonary artery and pulmonary wedge pressures, as well as plasma ANF, plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone and vasopressin were obtained before and 30 minutes after acute volume expansion to raise wedge pressure greater than or equal to 20 mm Hg. Baseline mean right atrial pressure and plasma ANF levels were greater in patients with than without RV infarction (8 +/- 3 vs 5 +/- 2 mm Hg; p less than 0.0001, and 4.6 +/- 2.9 vs 2.7 +/- 1.5 fmol/ml; p less than 0.05, respectively). There were no differences in other baseline hemodynamic or humoral parameters between both groups. After volume expansion, pulmonary wedge pressure was similar in both groups, but right atrial pressure increased to higher levels in patients with RV infarction (19 +/- 2 vs 14 +/- 2 mm Hg; p less than 0.0001). Despite this greater stimulus for ANF secretion, the increase in plasma ANF was less pronounced in patients with RV infarction (63 +/- 81 vs 455 +/- 417%; p less than 0.002), especially among those with paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. Thus, despite higher baseline plasma levels of ANF, response to volume loading is markedly attenuated in patients with RV infarction complicating an inferior wall acute myocardial infarction. 
Relative importance of eight virulence characteristics of pyelonephritogenic Escherichia coli strains assessed by multivariate statistical analysis. We have previously reported univariate statistical analysis of the prevalences of putative virulence determinants in Escherichia coli isolated from children and adults with acute pyelonephritis. The expression of P-fimbriae, cell surface hydrophobicity, mannose resistant haemagglutination, haemolysin synthesis, cytotoxic necrotizing factor production and aerobactin mediated iron uptake occurred more often in a collection of 115 Escherichia coli strains isolated from children and women with acute non-obstructive pyelonephritis compared to 96 strains isolated from the commensal fecal flora. With the aim to study which of these virulence markers were independently associated with strains causing infection we performed a multivariate statistical analysis with the data from these strains. The previously proposed virulence factors, expression of type 1 fimbriae and adhesion to HeLa cells were also included in the analysis. P-fimbriae, mannose resistant haemagglutination and the production of haemolysin were, in the multivariate analysis, associated with strains isolated from patients with acute pyelonephritis. 
Sensitivity, specificity and predictive value of the sensation of warmth as a method of detecting inadvertent subarachnoid injection of local anaesthetic when performing extradural blocks. In order to test if the rate of onset of sensation of warmth in the legs after the injection of 0.5% bupivacaine might discriminate between subarachnoid and extradural injection, 150 urological patients were allocated randomly to receive either spinal anaesthesia with isobaric (IS) or hyperbaric (HS) 0.5% bupivacaine, or extradural anaesthesia with isobaric 0.5% bupivacaine. The volume of the local anaesthetic for spinal anaesthesia and for the extradural test dose was 3-4 ml. The patients were asked to report at once if they had a sensation of warmth in the legs during or after injection of local anaesthetic. The mean time to the sensation of warmth was significantly shorter in the spinal groups (80 (SEM 10) s in IS and 76 (8.0) s in HS) than in the extradural group (558 (38) s). However, six patients in the IS and two in the HS group had no sensation of warmth. 
Recommendations for preventing transmission of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus to patients during exposure-prone invasive procedures. This document has been developed by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to update recommendations for prevention of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) in the health-care setting. Current data suggest that the risk for such transmission from a health-care worker (HCW) to a patient during an invasive procedure is small; a precise assessment of the risk is not yet available. This document contains recommendations to provide guidance for prevention of HIV and HBV transmission during those invasive procedures that are considered exposure-prone. 
The value of pancreatic pseudocyst amylase concentration in the detection of pseudocyst communication with the pancreatic duct. The aims of the study were to compare the results of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and percutaneous cystopancreatography (PCP) in the detection of the communication between the pancreatic pseudocyst and the pancreatic duct, and to assess the reliability of the increased amylase concentration in the pseudocyst content as an indicator of the existence of communication between the pancreatic pseudocyst and the pancreatic duct system. Forty-three patients were included in the study. Pseudocystic fluid content was obtained by percutaneous aspiration. Twenty-four patients had pseudocyst amylase concentrations above 64 Wolgemuth units (WU), and 19 patients had less than 64 WU. The communication between pseudocyst and the pancreatic duct was determined in 22 patients by ERCP and in 13 patients by PCP, all in the group with increased pseudocyst amylase concentration. Due to high sensitivity and specificity of pseudocyst amylase concentration for the existence of pseudocyst communication with the pancreatic duct, we conclude that guided percutaneous aspiration of the pancreatic pseudocyst with the determination of amylase concentration in the fluid can replace ERCP as a method of choice for the detection of pseudocyst communication with the pancreatic duct. 
Intestinal injury after lumbar discectomy. In a review of 5,200 lumbar discectomies performed from 1974 to 1989, two patients sustained a ventral perforation of the disc space followed by isolated small intestinal injury. Both patients underwent lumbar discectomy at the lumbosacral junction and presented with signs and symptoms of acute abdominal distress within three days after the operation. At surgical laparotomy, small tears were noted in the ileum, which were closed primarily. The patients had an uneventful recovery. The results of a review of 11 instances reported in the literature suggest that isolated intestinal injuries usually occur postoperatively at the lumbosacral junction and involve the small intestine. Factors, such as body habitus, surgical experience, patient positioning and types of instruments, as well as the use of a surgical microscope, do not appear to modify the risk of intestinal injury. After discectomy, patients may present with acute abdominal signs and symptoms or chronic wound infections. Work-up studies include evaluation of vascular structures and ureters either roentgenographically or at abdominal exploration. A high index of suspicion and adequate disc space visualization during discectomy may reduce the incidence of this complication. 
Salvage of nonunion following ankle arthrodesis for failed total ankle arthroplasty. Revision operations for nonunion following total ankle arthrodesis for total ankle arthroplasty (TAA) were reviewed in ten patients. Operations averaged 2.0 years after prior arthrodesis attempts and featured external fixation in seven, internal fixation in one, percutaneous pin fixation in one, and cast immobilization only in one. Bone graft was used in seven. Union was achieved in 78%. The one complication was an infection in a patient with prior sepsis. The results were considered excellent in three, good in one, fair in three, and poor in two of the nine patients with adequate follow-up evaluation (average, 7 years). Despite successful arthrodesis, residual symptoms were common because of factors such as hindfoot degenerative arthritis and malalignment. 
Serum vitamin D metabolites and bone mineralization in young children with chronic low to moderate lead exposure. One hundred five children (49 male, 99 black) with known lead exposure indices from birth and adequate nutrient intake of calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D were studied at 1 of 3 ages (21, 27, or 33 months) to determine the effects of chronic low to moderate lead exposure on circulating concentrations of vitamin D metabolites and bone mineral content as determined by photon absorptiometry. Univariate multiple regression analyses showed no direct relationship of blood lead levels to vitamin D metabolites or bone mineral content. Structural equation analyses which took into account potential covariates of age, season, race, and sex showed estimated declines in serum concentrations of total calcium (from 9.72 to 9.61 mg/dL), phosphorus (from 5.4 to 4.67 mg/dL), and 25-hydroxyvitamin D (from 27.24 to 25.8 ng/mL) and estimated increases in concentrations of parathyroid hormones (from 73.03 to 83.14 microL Eq/mL), 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (from 62.39 to 62.69 pg/mL), and bone mineral content (from 222.66 to 234.91 mg/cm) over the observed range of average lifetime blood lead concentrations (4.76 to 23.61 micrograms/dL, geometric mean 9.74 micrograms/dL). However, the only statistically significant effect of average lifetime blood lead concentration was that for phosphorus, and the multivariate test of the combined effects of lead on these six outcomes was not statistically significant (P = .2). It is concluded that significant alterations in vitamin D metabolism, calcium and phosphorus homeostasis, and bone mineral content are not present in children whose nutritional status is adequate and who experience low to moderate lead exposure. 
A weekly cisplatin-based induction regimen for extensive non-small cell lung cancer. A Southwest Oncology Group study. The purpose of this Phase II pilot study was to determine whether a dose-intensive regimen of weekly cisplatin combined with other active non-cross-resistant agents would improve the response rate and survival time of patients with extensive non-small cell lung cancer. Patients received cisplatin (50 mg/m2/wk) on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 36, 43, 50, and 57 combined with mitomycin C (8 mg/m2) on days 1 and 36, vinblastine (3 mg/m2) on days 8 and 43, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (1 g/m2) by continuous infusion over 24 hours on days 15 and 50. Responding patients received consolidation therapy with cisplatin and etoposide (VP-16). Of 82 registered patients, 80 were eligible and 77 were evaluable for response. The overall response rate was 23% with 1 patient achieving a complete response (CR) and 17 patients achieving a partial response (PR). The median survival time was 4.6 months. The toxicity profile was not different from that described for standard-dose regimens. Although this regimen does not offer any benefit over standard-dose cisplatin regimens for patients with extensive non-small lung cancer, the weekly schedule permits a dose-intensive regimen with acceptable toxicity for tumors that may benefit from this approach. 
Increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on bile ducts in primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis. It has been suggested that immunological mechanisms involving lymphocyte-mediated damage are important in the characteristic bile-duct damage that occurs in primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis. Because adhesion is necessary for the interaction of lymphocytes with their target structures, we have studied the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1, a ligand for the leukocyte adhesion receptor lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 in the liver of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis. Strong expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was seen on interlobular bile ducts and proliferating bile ductules in both conditions. In primary biliary cirrhosis, medium-sized ducts, which are spared by the disease, were negative. Minimal bile-duct staining was seen in conditions in which bile-duct damage is not a major feature, such as nonbiliary cirrhosis and acute liver diseases. In patients with cirrhosis from any cause, strong expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was detected on the periseptal hepatocytes adjacent to new connective tissue. The intensity of immunohistochemical staining was recorded using a semiquantitative visual scoring system that was subsequently validated quantitatively by confocal laser scanning microscopy. The expression/induction of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on bile ducts may be important in the pathogenesis of bile-duct damage in primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis and is further evidence to support an immune pathogenesis in these two conditions. Furthermore, the induction of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on hepatocytes may be an important factor in the liver-cell damage and fibrosis that occur during the development of cirrhosis. 
Salvage of thrombosed forearm polytetrafluoroethylene vascular access grafts by reversal of flow direction and venous bypass grafting. A technique is described for salvage of looped forearm polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) vascular access grafts that fail because of thrombosis due to cephalic vein outflow obstruction. It entails reversal of blood flow direction through the graft and construction of a new venous outflow in the medial upper arm. This procedure was performed in nine patients and, at the present time, has increased the graft life by an average of 6.2 months (range: 2 to 14 months) in eight. We conclude that this is a useful alternative to abandoning failed looped forearm PTFE grafts that have cephalic vein outflow obstruction. 
A comparison of dopexamine and dopamine to prevent renal impairment in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation. The efficacy of low-dose dopamine as a renal protective agent was compared with that of dopexamine in patients who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. Twelve patients who received a continuous infusion of dopexamine (1-3 micrograms/kg/minute) were matched for age, diagnosis, pre-operative creatinine clearance and blood loss with 12 patients who received a low-dose infusion of dopamine (2 micrograms/kg/minute). The catecholamine infusion was started after induction of anaesthesia and continued for 48 hours after surgery. Patients in the dopexamine group had less evidence of renal impairment and failure than those in the dopamine group during 7 days after the operation, although the differences between groups did not achieve statistical significance. Similarly there were no significant differences between the two groups in peri-operative urine output, urine/plasma osmolality ratio or creatine clearance. Dopexamine is at least as effective as dopamine for renal protection in patients who undergo liver transplantation. 
Alteration of urinary carnitine profile induced by benzoate administration. To study the effect of sodium benzoate on carnitine metabolism, the acylcarnitine profile in the urine of five normal volunteers and two patients with urea cycle disorders was examined with fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry. The volunteer subjects were given 5 g of sodium benzoate orally and the two patients with urea cycle disorders (carbamyl phosphate synthetase deficiency type I and ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency) were already undergoing treatment with sodium benzoate and L-carnitine. The amount of benzoylcarnitine excretion depended on the dose of both sodium benzoate and L-carnitine in a reciprocal relation. Increased excretions of acetylcarnitine and propionylcarnitine were also noted after sodium benzoate administration. The alteration of the urinary aclycarnitine profile was consistent with the change of mitochondrial CoA profile predicted by in vitro studies of an animal model. It is suggested that urinary acylcarnitine analysis is important to assess the effect of benzoate administration on mitochondrial function in vivo. Supplementation with carnitine may be necessary to minimise the adverse effects of sodium benzoate treatment in hyperammonaemia. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of spinal trauma. A retrospective series of 118 magnetic resonance examinations of 110 patients who had sustained previous spinal trauma is reported. Examinations performed within 3 weeks of trauma showed extraspinal soft tissue (including ligamentous) injury in 48% and intraspinal lesions in 61% (mostly consisting of extradural haematoma and spinal cord contusion). In examinations performed more than 3 weeks after injury intraspinal abnormalities were shown in 51% and these represented spinal cord compression, atrophy, myelomalacia and syringohydromyelia. Magnetic resonance imaging has the unique capability of displaying non-invasively the late sequelae of spinal trauma permitting simultaneous evaluation of the extra-spinal soft tissues, vertebral column and spinal cord. It is therefore recommended as the technique of choice in the investigation of patients who have sustained previous spinal injury, particularly those with neurological deficit. In the acute phase potentially remediable causes of neurological impairment such as disc herniation or extradural haematoma can be identified. Signal changes in the cord may allow the prognosis for neurological recovery to be established. In the later stages sequelae such as cord atrophy, myelomalacia and syringohydromyelia are accurately identified and surgical therapy may be guided, where appropriate. 
Altered density of glomerular binding sites for atrial natriuretic factor in bile duct-ligated rats with ascites. The renal response to atrial natriuretic factor is blunted in cirrhosis with ascites. This might be due to alterations of renal receptors for atrial natriuretic factor. Therefore density and affinity of glomerular atrial natriuretic factor binding sites of bile duct-ligated rats with ascites (n = 10) and of sham-operated controls (n = 10) were determined. Glomerular atrial natriuretic factor binding sites were identified to be of the B-("biologically active") and C-("clearance") receptor type. Discrimination and quantitative determination of B and C receptors for atrial natriuretic factor were achieved by displacement experiments with atrial natriuretic factor(99-126) or des(18-22)atrial natriuretic factor(4-23), an analogue binding to C receptors only. Density of total glomerular atrial natriuretic factor binding sites was significantly increased in bile duct-ligated rats (3,518 +/- 864 vs. 1,648 +/- 358 fmol/mg protein; p less than 0.05). This was due to a significant increase of C-receptor density (3,460 +/- 866 vs. 1,486 +/- 363 fmol/mg protein; p less than 0.05), whereas density of B receptors was not significantly different in bile duct-ligated rats (58 +/- 11 vs. 162 +/- 63 fmol/mg protein). Affinity of atrial natriuretic factor to its glomerular binding sites did not differ significantly between both groups. These data suggest that an altered glomerular atrial natriuretic factor receptor density could be involved in the renal resistance to atrial natriuretic factor in cirrhosis with ascites. 
The change in patterns of relapse in medulloblastoma. The authors reviewed 89 patients treated for cerebellar medulloblastoma between 1970 and 1989 to determine the impact of changing treatment (high-dose posterior fossa radiation therapy and chemotherapy) on the pattern of failure in medulloblastoma. Between 1970 and 1983, 50 patients (median follow-up, 110 months) were treated with surgery and postoperative craniospinal irradiation (CSI). Nineteen of the 50 (38%) recurred in the central nervous system (CNS). Isolated systemic (bone) metastases occurred in six. The median time to the development of bone metastases was 12 months. Since 1984, 39 patients (median follow-up, 27 months) were treated with preradiation chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin and vincristine for 9 weeks before initiation of CSI. Nine of the 39 (23%) patients recurred in the CNS. There were no systemic failures in this cohort. The actuarial 5-year disease-free survival was 55 +/- 7% for the earlier cohort and 72 +/- 8% for the later cohort (P equals 0.3). Posterior fossa recurrence was associated with radiation therapy to this area. The cumulative incidence of posterior fossa relapse was 50 +/- 13% in patients who received less than 5300 cGy and 18 +/- 7% in those who received 5300 cGy or more (P equals 0.005). All six bone relapses were in patients treated with CSI alone and 5300 cGy or more to the posterior fossa for a 5-year cumulative incidence of bone metastases of 18 +/- 7% compared with 0% for patients treated with 5300 cGy or more and chemotherapy (P equals 0.03). The authors concluded that high-dose radiation therapy has altered the pattern of relapse with an increase in systemic recurrence after radiation therapy alone that is now equivalent to the risk of recurrence in the posterior fossa. Chemotherapy may be indicated in an attempt to decrease this high risk of systemic metastases. 
Long-term follow-up after prosthetic replacement of the superior vena cava combined with resection of mediastinal-pulmonary malignant tumors. The contraindication to curative excision of mediastinal and pulmonary cancers because of invasion of the superior vena cava is now challenged by the existence of vascular prostheses that are suitable for venous replacement. Between 1979 and 1990 22 patients underwent resection of lung cancer (n = 6) or malignant mediastinal tumors (n = 16) involving the superior vena cava. Resection was done with concomitant venous reconstruction, and polytetrafluorethylene grafts were used. All bronchogenic carcinomas necessitated right pneumonectomy, whereas the excision of mediastinal tumors had to include pulmonary resections in nine patients (five lobectomies and four sublobar resections) and the right phrenic nerve in 12 patients. Venous reconstruction was performed by interposition of a large polytetrafluoroethylene graft between the proximal and cardiac ends of the superior vena cava (n = 8), or between one (n = 10) or both brachiocephalic veins (n = 4) and the right atrium. One patient died postoperatively (4.5%), and another had mediastinitis that was successfully treated by omentopexy. Chemotherapy was administered preoperatively to five patients and postoperatively to seven patients; radiotherapy was administered to two and 10 patients, respectively. The overall actuarial survival rate is 48% at 5 years, with 11 patients presently alive. The survival rate of patients with mediastinal tumors is 60% at 5 years. Among the patients with lung cancer, two with N1 disease are alive at 16 and 51 months, and one died at 38 months; the two patients with N2 disease died at 6 and 8 months. Only one graft occlusion occurred in the postoperative period; another occurred 14 months after operation and was precipitated by insertion of a central venous catheter. The patency of all remaining grafts was demonstrated after an average time of 23 (1 to 98) months. On the basis of these results, polytetrafluoroethylene graft replacement of the superior vena cava should be part of the planning and execution of radical excision with curative intent of mediastinal and right pulmonary malignant tumors that are not present with other contraindications, such as pleural or distant metastasis and severe systemic disease. 
Tolerance of gastric mucosal flap to postoperative irradiation. When malignant lesions of the oral cavity, base of tongue, and oropharynx are treated with radical resection, adequate reconstruction is required. The free gastric mucosal flap with microvascular transfer is being used with increasing frequency at Washington University Medical Center. Because of the advanced nature of the primary lesions, most patients also require postoperative radiation therapy. In this paper the tolerance of the gastric mucosal flap to postoperative radiation therapy is reviewed. The changes resulting from radiation therapy in the mucosal flap were found to be acceptable, and no major complications were encountered. 
Intravenous heme-albumin in acute intermittent porphyria: evidence for repletion of hepatic hemoproteins and regulatory heme pools. The purpose of this study was to assess effects of heme administered intravenously, complexed to human serum albumin, on activities of the hepatic hemoproteins, cytochrome(s) P-450, and tryptophan pyrrolase, and on the size of the heme pool that regulates activity of 5-aminolevulinate synthase. Effects were compared in six normal women and four women with acute intermittent porphyria. All porphyric subjects over-excreted heme precursors and had histories of acute neurovisceral porphyric attacks. All subjects were placed on a constant daily diet that included at least 3 g carbohydrate/kg body weight and sufficient total intake to provide 1.4 times the estimated resting energy expenditure. Urinary excretions of 5-aminolevulinate, porphobilinogen, porphyrins, and metabolites of tryptophan were measured daily before, during, and after infusions of heme-albumin. In the porphyric subjects, intravenous heme [4 mg (6.1 mumol)/kg body weight (BWt) with equimolar albumin], given daily for 4 days, markedly reduced overexcretion of 5-aminolevulinate, porphobilinogen, and porphyrins, indicating repletion of the regulatory heme pool. The heme infusions also decreased mean urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid from 4.9 to 2.9 mg/g creatinine per day, suggesting increased activity of hepatic tryptophan pyrrolase, the rate-controlling enzyme for metabolism of tryptophan to products not in the serotonin-5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid pathway. Heme-albumin infusions were without detectable effects on excretions of heme precursors or tryptophan metabolites in normal subjects. In contrast, in both normals and porphyrics, heme-albumin infusions significantly increased rates of antipyrine metabolism (by 159% and 330%, respectively), suggesting increased activities of cytochrome(s) P-450 were produced by the infusions. The infusions were well tolerated; no subject developed thrombophlebitis or bleeding. We conclude that such infusions are safe and effective in repleting deficient heme pools and hemoproteins in patients with acute porphyria, and that activities of cytochrome(s) P-450 in normal subjects may also be increased by heme administration. The therapeutic effect of heme in acute porphyria probably relates to its ability to decrease overproduction of precursors of heme or serotonin, as the result of its increasing critical cellular heme pools. 
Anti-V region antibodies as "almost clonotypic" reagents for the study of cutaneous T cell lymphomas and leukemias. Despite recent advances in the understanding of normal T lymphocyte immunobiology, there has been little progress in characterizing the non-HTLV cutaneous T-cell lymphomas and leukemias (CTCL) Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary syndrome. The two major impediments to in vitro studies of these malignancies have been the contamination of CTCL cells with normal T cells and the inability to induce a vigorous proliferative response or establish long-term cultures with standard T-cell mitogens. The ideal reagent for identifying CTCL cells in a given patient would be tumor specific. Although a monoclonal antibody to the clonotypic antigen receptor on CTCL cells would approach this ideal, it is not currently feasible to generate such antibodies for each CTCL patient. As a compromise, we chose to test an "almost clonotypic" reagent by examining whether monoclonal antibodies directed at the variable (V) region of the T-cell antigen receptor could be applied to CTCL. We identified three Sezary patients, who by standard T-cell phenotype and Southern blot analysis for clonality had a virtually pure peripheral blood population of leukemic cells (PBL). We then screened the PBL of these patients with a panel of seven commercially available monoclonal anti-V region antibodies and found one patients' cells reacted greater than 99% with alpha V beta 5. The other patients' cells were non-reactive. In addition, we utilized a solid-phase system to cross-link V beta 5 on the one CTCL patients' PBL cells, and found that they proliferated vigorously in the presence of 10 units of IL-2 and IL-4. Parallel cultures have been maintained for one month by restimulation twice a week. These findings suggest that anti-V region antibodies should prove useful for investigating the immunobiology of CTCL. 
Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the therapeutic use of recombinant human erythropoietin for anemia associated with chronic renal failure in predialysis patients. The US Recombinant Human Erythropoietin Predialysis Study Group [published erratum appears in Am J Kidney Dis 1991 Sep;18(3):420] One hundred seventeen patients with anemia related to chronic renal failure not severe enough to require maintenance dialysis were randomly assigned to receive recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO; 50, 100, or 150 U/kg body weight) or placebo intravenously (IV) three times a week for 8 weeks or until their anemia was corrected. Correction of anemia (hematocrit of 40% for males, 35% for females) occurred in 87% of those given 150 U/kg, 64% of those given 100 U/kg, 46% of those given 50 U/kg rHuEPO and in 3% of the placebo group. Energy levels and work capacity improved significantly in the group with corrected anemia compared with the group with uncorrected anemia. rHuEPO appeared to be well tolerated. There was no evidence that rHuEPO therapy accelerated the deterioration of renal function as measured by serum creatinine and reciprocal of serum creatinine compared with placebo treatment. However, it is essential that blood pressure and hematocrit be carefully monitored, particularly in hypertensive patients, to prevent the development of complications associated with hypertension. 
Preeclampsia as the great impostor. In contrast with a generation ago when preeclampsia was misdiagnosed as medical or surgical disease unrelated to pregnancy, today's diagnostic errors are those that consider surgical and medical problems as either pregnancy-induced hypertension or as the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome. Eleven case histories are presented of significant medical or surgical problems that were initially diagnosed as hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome or pregnancy-induced hypertension. The incorrect diagnosis of medical-surgical cases during pregnancy often meant that appropriate therapy was delayed and that the rate of iatrogenic prematurity was increased. 
IgA nephropathy in non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. Renal glomerular changes are a well recognised complication of cirrhosis and are frequently characterised by mesangial IgA deposition. We report a patient with non-cirrhotic portal hypertension who developed IgA nephropathy and a nephrotic syndrome with renal histological changes classically associated with cirrhosis. Splenectomy with resection of a splenic artery aneurysm resulted in remission of the nephrotic syndrome. This case illustrates the factors which contribute to the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy in liver disease. 
Folk terminology for diarrhea in rural Bangladesh. Diarrhea, a descriptive term used in medical science for a variety of clinical diseases, denotes an illness that is categorized differently and known by numerous terms in various cultures. These diversified classifications and terminologies are based on the symptoms of diarrheal disorders, their perceived etiology, and their treatment. In Bangladesh, four types of illnesses with names derived from folk terminology have been identified for which the clinical symptoms resemble those of diarrhea. These include dud haga, which is due to ingestion of breast milk by infants; ajirno, which is due to overeating; amasha, a mucoid diarrhea; and daeria, which is severe watery diarrhea or cholera. Use of the word diarrhea in epidemiologic evaluations was discovered to be problematic; people confused this term with daeria, which accounted for only 5% of all episodes of diarrhea. The implications of such epidemiologic information for a large-scale program of oral rehydration therapy are also discussed. 
31P localized magnetic resonance spectroscopy of head and neck tumors--preliminary findings. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a powerful tool for accurate assessment of the anatomic extent of head and neck neoplasms. The development of methods for spatial localization by use of multiply tuned radio frequency coils that permit the measurement of multiple nuclear MR spectra (1H and 31P) from precisely defined volumes of interest has provided a basis for integrating spectroscopy into the clinical MRI examination. This offers a means for noninvasive monitoring of relative concentrations of mobile metabolites within a tumor. With the use of imaging to determine proper coil placement, a test-retest variance of about 17% is seen on MR spectroscopy. Data are presented from MRI/MRS studies for four head and neck lesions: (1) a squamous cell carcinoma of the lip; (2) a juvenile angiofibroma extending into the nasal cavity; (3) a massive chondrosarcoma of the nasal septum; and (4) a cervical nodal metastasis of a squamous cell carcinoma of the pharynx. Spectra are evaluated by comparison of relative concentrations of phosphorus compounds. The concentrations of phosphomonoesters and phosphodiesters are significantly higher in the neoplasms studied than in normal skeletal muscle. The developing role of integrated MRI/MRS to monitor the response of malignant neoplasm to radiation therapy is discussed. 
Metabolic responses to swimming exercise in Streptococcus pneumoniae infected rats. The present study was performed to determine whether alterations in fuel reserves or energy substrate utilization might explain the performance decrements that occur in bacterial infections. Male Fisher-Dunning rats were studied at 24, 48, and 72 h after inoculation with Streptococcus pneumoniae. Rats were either sedentary or subjected to a 2-h swimming session at these three time points (N = 10 in each group). A more than 60% reduction (P less than 0.01) in performance capacity was observed on day 3 of infection compared with that in noninfected controls. This infection in the rat is characterized by fever (P less than 0.01), depression of plasma zinc (P less than 0.01) and free fatty acid (FFA) levels (P less than 0.01), inhibition of the two- to threefold increase in fasting ketonemia, and a decreased (NS) insulin:glucagon ratio, indicating a catabolic state. Glycogen stores were reduced in the heart (47%), liver (43%), and skeletal muscles (39%) but not in the carcass. Superimposed exercise resulted in a further reduction but not depletion of liver, muscle, and carcass glycogen stores, a less pronounced lactic acid accumulation, and a lower oxygen debt. However, plasma FFA and ketone body levels were still maintained or even elevated, suggesting that fat is supplied as fuel during swimming exercise in this infection. Thus, results indicate that unavailability of energy substrates or lactacidosis is not limiting for performance capacity during this severe infection. 
Congestive heart failure. New frontiers. Congestive heart failure is a common syndrome with high mortality in its advanced stages. Current therapy includes the use of vasodilator drugs, which have been shown to prolong life. Despite current therapy, mortality remains high in patients with severe heart failure. Potent new inotropic vasodilators have improved ventricular performance but have not prolonged life in patients with end-stage heart failure. Serious arrhythmias are implicated in the sudden deaths of 30% to 40% of patients with severe heart failure, but the benefits of antiarrhythmic therapy have not been established. Upcoming trials will address this question. Ventricular remodeling and progressive dilatation after myocardial infarction commonly lead to congestive heart failure; early unloading of the ventricle with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor may attenuate these events. These findings support the concept that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may be useful in managing heart failure of all degrees of severity, including left ventricular dysfunction and end-stage heart failure. Part of the damage that may occur with acute myocardial infarction, particularly in this era of thrombolysis therapy, is reperfusion injury, which may be mediated by oxygen-derived free radicals. Better knowledge of the mechanisms and treatment of myocardial infarction, the leading cause of congestive heart failure, may help prevent or attenuate the development of this syndrome. 
Management of severe fibrocystic disease of the breast with leuprolide acetate. Symptoms of severe fibrocystic disease of the breast were successfully ameliorated in two patients as a result of treatment with daily subcutaneous LA without adverse effects. A state of drug-induced hypogonadotropic hypogonadism appears to be responsible for the clinical effect and is further suggestive of the hormonal dependence of this common disorder. 
Safety of surgical procedures performed by residents. The outcome of surgical procedures on the gallbladder performed by surgical residents in a university hospital was compared with the outcome of those performed by the attending staff. More than 60% of the operations (643/1084) were done by residents under the direct supervision of the attending surgeon. We found no differences in the rate of technical complications, postoperative morbidity and mortality, or length of hospitalization between the two groups. Thus, resident surgery under appropriate guidance is safe and does not compromise the quality of patient care or operative outcome. 
Chickenpox pneumonia, its complications and management. A report of three cases, including the use of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We report three cases of chickenpox pneumonia in adults, all of whom required intermittent positive pressure ventilation. One patient developed a variety of complications, and another, a pregnant woman, required extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 
Acetylcholine regulates pancreastatin secretion from the human pancreastatin-producing cell line (QGP-1N). Studies were made of pancreastatin (PST) secretion from a human PST-producing cell line (QGP-1N) in response to various secretagogues. Cells with immunoreactivity for PST were observed in monolayer cultures of QGP-1N cells. Carbachol stimulated PST secretion and the intracellular Ca2+ mobilization concentration dependently in the range of 10(-6)-10(-4) M. The PST secretion and Ca2+ mobilization induced by carbachol were inhibited by atropine. The calcium ionophore (A23187) stimulated PST secretion. However, cholecystokinin and gastrin-releasing peptide did not stimulate either PST secretion or Ca2+ mobilization. Secretin also did not stimulate PST secretion. The glucose concentration in the culture medium had no effect on PST secretion. These results suggest that PST secretion is mainly regulated by acetylcholine through a muscarinic receptor, and that an increase in intracellular Ca2+ plays an important role in stimulus-secretion coupling in QGP-1N cells. 
Delayed visual loss due to trauma of the internal carotid artery. The group of six patients in this study experienced delayed visual loss following head trauma. Visual loss occurred from 1 day to 13 years after the initial injury. All patients suffered indirect trauma to the internal carotid artery resulting in formation of either an aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm or a carotid-cavernous fistula. Review of the radiologic and clinical findings was performed in six patients. The diagnosis was established by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography. All patients had follow-up clinical evaluation and imaging studies. Treatment by neurosurgical or interventional neuroradiologic procedures resulted in significant visual improvement in five patients. Different pathophysiologic mechanisms could be correlated with the delayed visual loss produced by the two types of lesions. The pathologic changes associated with the aneurysms/pseudoaneurysms included direct compression of optic nerves and/or chiasm and intracranial hematoma. A carotid-cavernous fistula caused delayed visual loss by either hematoma at the orbital apex or compression of the chiasm and/or optic nerves by saccular dilatation of the cavernous sinus. The delayed onset of decreased vision following head trauma should alert the physician to the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm/pseudoaneurysm or a carotid-cavernous fistula. Different neuro-ophthalmologic symptoms can usually be correlated with the pathologic changes demonstrated by neuroimaging procedures. 
Clinical and angiographic observations on resuscitated victims of exercise-related sudden ischemic death. The clinical and angiographic findings of 17 resuscitated victims of exercise-related sudden ischemic death are reported in an attempt to elucidate the mechanism(s) of these deaths. Ten survivors developed cardiac arrest during or after sporting activities (group A) and 7 others during or after an exercise stress test (group B). There were 15 men and 2 women. The mean age of group A was 46 years and of group B 55 years. Coronary risk factors, as well as previous angina and myocardial infarction, were more frequent in group B. Only 3 of the 17 survivors had anginal symptoms before sudden death. Sudden death in group A was associated with acute myocardial infarction in 8 and unstable angina in 2 and was associated in group B with acute myocardial infarction in 2, unstable angina in 3 and silent ischemia in 2. Coronary angiography was acutely performed in 15 patients. In most patients the ischemia-related coronary artery was totally or subtotally occluded. Clinical and angiographic findings indicate that exercise-related sudden ischemic death was due to an acute coronary event--in most cases unexpected and unpredictable. It is suggested that exercise-induced intracoronary changes were probably responsible for the development of acute coronary (sub)occlusion and sudden death. 
Establishment from Shope carcinoma induced in an inbred rabbit of culture cell lines with various potentials for differentiation and tumorigenicity. Shope papillomas induced by cottontail rabbit papilloma-virus (CRPV) in domestic rabbits frequently regress spontaneously or, failing to do so, convert into squamous cell carcinomas at a high rate. This papilloma-carcinoma complex in rabbits provides an experimental model for human papillo-mavirus-associated malignancies. The aim of this study was to prepare an experimental system in inbred rabbits by establishing culture cell lines of the tumor. Squamous cell carcinoma developed from a Shope papilloma that had been induced 6 months previously by inoculating CRPV into an inbred B/J rabbit. By in vitro culturing of the tumor cells, cell lines with potentials for terminal differentiation and tumorigenicity were established. Cloning yielded sublines that varied in these potentials and possessed episomal and integrated CRPV genomes as revealed by Southern hybridization in both one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis. Major CRPV-specific transcripts were similarly observed both in well-differentiated and in poorly differentiated sublines. Immunofluorescence with syngeneic rabbit antibody against tumor-specific antigens localized such antigens mainly in the nuclei of the cells of these sublines. This experimental system allows experiments that were not feasible in randomly bred rabbits. 
Access to neurological care for minorities. Minority groups comprise a major segment of the estimated more than 34 million Americans without insurance coverage and also the underinsured. Neurologic disease and neurologic complications of the major causes of morbidity and mortality affect minorities protracted by limited access to health care. Hypertension, a major cause of stroke in the black population, is just one example of the impact of accessibility to intervention in central nervous system disease. Health statistics note the persisting gap between minority groups and the nation's norms for life expectancy. Aging America and particularly black elderly women, combined with the lagging infant mortality among minority groups, demonstrate limited access issues beyond economics, reflecting inner city mores, cultural barriers, and communication delay limiting contact with the practicing neurologist. Awareness of such access limitations to neurological care for minorities demands the attention of the practicing neurologist and the neurological societies. 
Neurological disease in xeroderma pigmentosum. Documentation of a late onset type of the juvenile onset form. Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is an autosomal recessive, neurocutaneous disorder characterized by sunlight-induced skin cancers and defective DNA repair. Many XP children develop a primary neuronal degeneration. We describe 2 unusual XP patients who had a delayed onset of XP neurological disease. Somatic cell genetic studies indicated that they have the same defective DNA repair gene and are both in XP complementation group A. These 2 patients, together with a group A patient previously reported from London, establish as a distinct clinical entity the late onset type of the juvenile onset form of XP neurological disease. The functional capacity of these patients' cultured fibroblast strains to survive after treatment with ultraviolet radiation indicates that their DNA repair defect is less severe than that of typical group A patients who have a more severe neurodegeneration with an earlier symptomatic onset. The premature death of nerve cells in XP patients (which is presumably due to their inherited defects in DNA repair mechanisms) suggests that normal repair of damaged DNA in neurons is required to maintain integrity of the human nervous system. 
Brain stem atrophy in Joseph disease: a morphometric study using two-dimensional (area) measurement by computed tomography. Eight Japanese patients with Joseph disease were studied using computed tomography (CT). Morphometric analysis using the two-dimensional (area) measurement by CT was performed in the infratentorial region. The brain-stem index, an index of brain-stem atrophy or pontine atrophy, revealed a significant decrease (P less than 0.01), with a mean of 66.7% when compared with 16 control subjects. The patients showed a significant increase (P less than 0.01), with a mean of three times that of the controls in the fourth ventricular index, an index of fourth ventricular dilatation. There were no differences in the cerebellar index, an index of cerebellar atrophy, between these patients and the controls, although the patients had an increased number of visible cerebellar vermian (2.0, SD 0.7) and hemispheric sulci (2.6 SD 0.6) as compared with the controls (vermian sulci: 0.4, SD 0.7: hemispheric sulci: 0). These data indicate severe pontine atrophy, fourth ventricular dilatation with mild involvement of the cerebellum and correlate well with the common pathological features of Joseph disease. The present morphometric evaluation by CT may be useful in the clinical diagnosis of Joseph disease. 
The incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting in women undergoing laparoscopy is influenced by the day of menstrual cycle. Postoperative nausea and vomiting is a major cause of postoperative morbidity. It can lead to increased recovery time, delaying patient discharge and an increase in hospital costs. Past studies have shown that postoperative nausea and vomiting is more frequent in women than men, appears to elevate around the time of menarche and is reduced around the time of menopause. This retrospective review of a one-year experience of laparoscopic tubal ligation at our institute examined the effect of menstrual cycle on postoperative nausea and vomiting. The anaesthetic and surgical techniques were consistent for all patients. Patient data included age, weight, last day of menstrual cycle, the length of anaesthetic, the dose of inhalational agent, the dose of narcotic, emesis on emergence and whether or not droperidol was used. Of the the 235 patients in the study, the incidence of nausea and vomiting was 28%. One hundred fifty-eight had had no preoperative antiemetic and 77 had received droperidol. These two groups were analyzed separately. The incidence in the group not receiving droperidol was 33.5% and in the droperidol group, 16.9% (P less than 0.01). The incidence of nausea and vomiting was higher on the first eight menstrual days (51.6 vs 21.6, P less than 0.001), was highest on day five of the menstrual cycle and lowest on days 18, 19, and 20 where there was no nausea and vomiting. Droperidol reduced the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting but the variation in postoperative nausea and vomiting during the cycle persisted. 
Bio-medicus ventricular assist device for salvage of cardiac surgical patients Over a 5-year period, 41 (1%) of 4,193 patients undergoing cardiac operations underwent intraoperative or early postoperative insertion of a Bio-Medicus ventricular assist device when it became apparent that the patient could not otherwise survive. Fourteen patients were in cardiogenic shock and 7 were in cardiac arrest at the time of initiation of their primary cardiac surgical procedure, and in no instance was the device planned as a bridge to cardiac transplantation. Bleeding, sepsis, and thromboembolism were frequent postoperative complications. Central nervous system deficits were observed in 16 patients during their postoperative course. Eight patients (19.5%) were long-term survivors. Of the preoperative risk factors evaluated only age was significantly associated with survival, with 7 (33%) of the 21 younger (39 to 63 years) patients surviving. Blood product usage and hospital cost were analyzed in an attempt to assess cost/effectiveness of use of this device for attempted salvage of such desperately ill patients. 
The applications of PET in clinical oncology. With the advent of a new generation of PET scanners that have introduced whole-body PET to the clinical setting, there is now more interest in developing protocols for the evaluation of both intracranial and somatic cancers. The value of PET in clinical oncology has been demonstrated with studies in a variety of cancers including colorectal carcinomas, lung tumors, head and neck tumors, primary and metastatic brain tumors, breast carcinoma, lymphoma, melanoma, bone cancers, and other soft-tissue cancers. A summary of current clinical applications of PET in oncology is presented with special attention to colorectal, lung, and intracranial neoplasms since the majority of clinical trials have focused on these cancers. A variety of radiopharmaceuticals are described that are currently included in clinical tumor-imaging protocols, including metabolic substrates such as fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose and carbon-11-methionine, and analogs of chemotherapeutic agents such as fluorine-18-fluorouracil and fluoroestradiol. An attempt is also made to include examples of clinical trials that demonstrate response to therapeutic intervention. The increasing number of oncologic PET studies reflects the growing interest in functional imaging in oncology. 
Cardiopulmonary hemodynamics in systemic sclerosis and response to nifedipine and captopril. PURPOSE: This prospective study was performed to evaluate the response of the cardiopulmonary vasculature to two vasodilators in patients with systemic sclerosis and either minimal or no central hemodynamic abnormalities. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty patients with systemic sclerosis, Raynaud's phenomenon (19 of 20 patients), and clinically normal cardiac function underwent right heart catheterization. Rest and exercise hemodynamic measurements, including cardiac output by thermodilution, were performed before and after oral administration of nifedipine 20 mg and captopril 25 mg. RESULTS: Half of the patients had normal hemodynamics (Group A); the other half (Group B) had abnormal baseline elevations in pulmonary vascular resistance and four of them showed "borderline" pulmonary arterial hypertension. Group A, with significantly shorter disease duration compared with Group B, responded poorly to nifedipine and captopril. However, Group B had significant decreases in pulmonary vascular resistance (from 148 +/- 20 to normal levels of 94 +/- 21 dynes.second.cm-5) and pulmonary mean pressure in response to nifedipine treatment but not to captopril. CONCLUSION: These observations show a short-term beneficial effect of nifedipine in the cardiopulmonary vasculature of patients with systemic sclerosis and suggest that a potentially reversible vasoconstrictive element is included in the vascular lesion of this disorder. 
Suppression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis by oral administration of myelin antigens: IV. Suppression of chronic relapsing disease in the Lewis rat and strain 13 guinea pig. Oral administration of proteins is a long-recognized method of inducing antigen-specific peripheral immune tolerance. We previously showed that oral administration of myelin basic protein suppresses monophasic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the Lewis rat when it is given in association with immunization and prior to disease onset. As a potential therapy for human autoimmune disease, it is crucial to determine whether oral tolerance can ameliorate an ongoing immune response. We therefore asked whether oral administration of myelin antigens, after sensitization and disease expression has occurred, could affect immunological, clinical, or pathological features of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis was induced in the Lewis rat and strain 13 guinea pig by immunization with whole guinea pig cord homogenate, complete Freund's adjuvant, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Following recovery from the first attack, animals were orally given bovine myelin, guinea pig myelin, or guinea pig myelin basic protein three times per week for up to 3 months. Animals receiving myelin products orally had decreased severity and frequency of clinical relapses, decreased delayed-type hypersensitivity responses to myelin antigens, diminished inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS), and decreased areas of CNS demyelination. In the rat, guinea pig myelin basic protein was as effective as guinea pig myelin in ameliorating the disease and also resulted in decreased serum anti-myelin basic protein antibody levels. No exacerbation of disease or worsening of pathological findings occurred in the animals given myelin products. These results demonstrate that oral administration of myelin antigens can suppress chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and have direct relevance to therapy of human demyelinating disorders such as multiple sclerosis. 
Intrahepatic spontaneous arterioportal fistula: duplex ultrasound diagnosis and angiographic treatment. A 54-yr-old male with portal hypertension received ineffective medical therapy for the diagnosis of portal hepatic cirrhosis. Duplex ultrasound (US) revealed pulsatile arterial flow in the right main portal vein. The correct diagnosis of intrahepatic arterioportal fistula was established and confirmed by angiography. Right hepatic artery embolization with three coils was performed. The patient is alive for 16 months after the embolization, and his complaints have disappeared. There has been full resorption of ascites and absence of varices. Nine previously reported similar cases are reviewed. 
Focal hepatic lesions: differentiation with MR imaging at 0.5 T. Magnetic resonance (MR) examinations of 43 patients with 95 focal hepatic lesions (diameter, greater than 1 cm) were analyzed for lesion shape, homogeneity, and relative signal intensity compared with normal liver parenchyma, spleen, and skeletal muscle. On T1-weighted, balanced, and T2-weighted images, most metastases (74%), cavernous hemangiomas (76%), and cysts (82%) were smooth and round or oval, while the hepatocellular carcinomas all had irregular borders (40%) or were lobulated (60%). All lesions with irregular borders were malignant. Seventy percent of metastatic lesions, 85% of cavernous hemangiomas, and 100% of simple hepatic cysts were of homogeneous signal intensity, while 60% of hepatocellular carcinomas were inhomogeneous. Logistic regression analysis of multiple lesion characteristics showed that inhomogeneous lesions had a high likelihood of malignancy, while markedly hyperintense lesions had a very low probability of being malignant, regardless of other traits. Homogeneous lesions that were isointense or hyperintense compared with spleen on balanced images but were not markedly hyperintense on T2-weighted images also had a high likelihood of malignancy. 
Staging relationships and outcome in early stage testicular cancer: a report from the Testicular Cancer Intergroup Study. The Testicular Cancer Center Intergroup Study entered surgically staged patients with nonseminomatous tumor and metastases limited to the regional lymph nodes into a previously reported cooperative trial of immediate versus delayed therapy for positive retroperitoneal node disease. Patients with negative nodes (stage I) were placed in an observation registry with specified treatment strategy upon relapse. Of 264 stage I cancer patients 27 (10.2%) had recurrence: 5 of these 27 patients died after recurrence of the testicular malignancies, while 4 other nontumor-related deaths have occurred. Pre-lymphadenectomy staging characteristics observed to predict significantly node positivity are the results of radiological examinations, presence of tumor invasion, vascular invasion and tumor histology. In a multiple logistic regression analysis with these variables, misclassification still occurs in more than a fourth of the patients. Future refinements in diagnosis may allow for better prediction of these patients at risk to have positive lymph nodes and ultimately recurrence. Presently, if assessment of nodal involvement is the objective, noninvasive procedures are not an adequate substitute for surgical staging with modified lymphadenectomy. 
Crackles in patients with fibrosing alveolitis, bronchiectasis, COPD, and heart failure. We have studied the crackling lung sounds of ten patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis, ten with bronchiectasis, ten with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and ten with heart failure by analyzing frequency, waveform, and timing of crackles. The upper frequency limit of inspiratory sounds was higher in CFA than in COPD or in HF. The period of crackling was shorter in COPD than in CFA or BE. Inspiratory crackling terminated significantly earlier in COPD than in CFA, BE, or HF. The initial deflection width and the two-cycle duration of the expanded waveforms of crackles were smaller in CFA than in BE, COPD, or HF. The largest deflection width was smaller in CFA than in BE, HF, or COPD and smaller in BE than in HF. The results indicate that crackling lung sounds in different diseases have distinctive features and that their analysis can be of diagnostic value. 
Parkinson's disease: new treatment strategies. Recent interest has focused on two novel approaches to the treatment of Parkinson's disease-medications to slow or arrest disease progression, and cerebral transplantation. Two recent studies have demonstrated that selegiline can slow, although not halt, the progression of recent-onset Parkinson's disease. The data are sufficiently compelling to justify the use of this drug in most new patients. It also seems reasonable to extrapolate from the data and offer this medication to all patients but those with the most advanced Parkinson's disease. The current focus on excessive oxidative stress as a causative factor has led some investigators to recommended treating patients with the antioxidant tocopherol (vitamin E). There is no clinical evidence demonstrating its effectiveness, but a current multicenter study is being conducted, with the results expected within the next 2 years. High-dose vitamin E (such as 800 to 2000 U/d), taken for a number of months, is probably harmless. It is probably reasonable, therefore, to allow patients to take this over-the-counter compound until more definitive evidence is available. Another antioxidant, vitamin C, has also been advocated as a means of slowing the progression of Parkinson's disease. There are no studies that demonstrate any clinical effectiveness, and there are also no ongoing studies investigating this issue in patients with Parkinson's disease. The excitement surrounding the initially favorable results of adrenal-brain transplantation has waned with the failure of numerous institutions to replicate the original dramatic success. While mild or occasionally moderate improvement has been noted in subsequent patients undergoing adrenal-brain transplantation, the improvement has not been sufficient to justify the risk and expense of this surgery. 
Obstructive sleep apnea complicating negative-pressure ventilatory support in patients with chronic paralytic/restrictive ventilatory dysfunction. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence and severity of obstructive events and oxyhemoglobin desaturation (dSaO2) in 37 patients with paralytic/restrictive ventilatory insufficiency during use of nocturnal ventilatory assistance provided by means of negative-pressure body ventilators (BVs). Thirteen of the 37 patients had mean oxyhemoglobin saturation (SaO2) less than 95 percent and a mean of ten or more episodes per hour when the dSaO2 was greater than or equal to 4 percent (4%dSaO2/h). In all, 26 of the 37 patients had evidence of significant multiple episodes of dSaO2 while asleep on BVs. Polysomnography performed on three of these patients substantiated the obstructive nature of the dSaO2. Twenty-two of the 37 patients who had a mean SaO2 of 90.6 +/- 7.2 percent and a mean of 17.7 +/- 16.1 4%dSaO2/h on BVs were switched to noninvasive ventilatory assistance by intermittent positive airway pressure (NV-PAP). Their mean SaO2 improved to 96.0 +/- 2.2 percent, and the 4%dSaO2/h decreased to 1.2 +/- 1.8 per hour. All symptoms similar to those of obstructive sleep apnea were relieved. We conclude that BV use is associated with significant dSaO2 in over 50 percent of patients. The dSaO2 is predominantly obstructive in nature but may be due to chronic underventilation in patients using less effective BVs. Patients with a mean SaO2 less than 95 percent or 10 or more 4%dSaO2/h may benefit from conversion to NV-PAP via the nose, the mouth, or an oral-nasal interface. 
Rehabilitation in rheumatic diseases. What's new. In the past decade, considerable change has occurred in concepts of rehabilitation in patients with rheumatic diseases. This includes approaches to functional assessment and outcome, new concepts in exercise, and new orthotics. 
Family history of myocardial infarction and hemodynamic responses to exercise in young black boys. The influence of family history of coronary artery disease on children's hemodynamic responses to exercise was examined with 25 black boys aged 7 to 10 years. Blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, stroke volume, and total peripheral resistance were evaluated during preexercise, peak exercise, and recovery stages. Children with a family history of CAD exhibited greater systolic blood pressure and total peripheral resistance during preexercise and peak exercise stages than did those without a family history of coronary artery disease. After controlling for preexercise differences, the group with a family history of coronary artery disease exhibited greater increases in systolic blood pressure and less attenuation of total peripheral resistance to peak exercise than the group without a family history of coronary artery disease. Cardiac output indexed by body surface area and stroke volumes were higher at all times in the group without a family history compared with the group with a family history of coronary artery disease. Findings are compared with those of adult studies in terms of influence of family history of coronary artery disease on cardiovascular reactivity to stress. 
Emergence of a B-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: evidence for the single-cell origin of the two tumors. A patient is described who presented with a chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and later developed a lymphoblastic lymphoma. The cells from the CLL were typical mature B lymphocytes as could be assessed by morphologic, cytochemical, and surface marker analyses. The cells from the lymphoblastic lymphoma were immature B cells that expressed CD10, CD20, and HLA-DR markers, but not surface Ig or cytoplasmic mu chains, and were negative for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT). The cells of two continuous cell lines, obtained from the bone marrow and the peripheral blood of the patient, had the same phenotype as the lymphoblastic lymphoma cells, did not contain the Epstein-Barr virus genome, and displayed malignant features in vitro, including the capacity to form colonies in agar. The two cell lines also shared identical chromosomal abnormalities, a finding which suggests that they derived from the same malignant cell already present in vivo. Such chromosomal abnormalities were not seen in the karyotype of the peripheral blood cells at the onset of the disease. Analysis of the Ig heavy chain genes using a DJ-specific probe showed the very same monoclonal rearrangement in the cells from the B-CLL, the lymphoblastic lymphoma and the two cell lines, thus demonstrating their common clonal origin. By contrast, a monoclonal rearrangement of the lambda chain gene locus was found in the B-CLL cells only, a finding consistent with their exclusive capacity to express surface IgM lambda. This patient represents a rare case in whom a chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with mature malignant cells transforms into a lymphoblastic lymphoma characterized by cells frozen at a very early maturational stage. The possible mechanisms leading to such transformation within the same cell clone are discussed. 
Psychological changes accompanying non-pharmacological treatment of chronic headache: the effects of outcome. Several prior studies suggest that non-drug treatment for chronic headache is accompanied by concomitant reductions in patients' anxiety, depression and somatization. It is currently unclear, however, whether such beneficial side effects are a function of degree of headache relief or are due simply to receiving treatment. Most work to date in this area has treated outcome as a dichotomous variable. The present report employed a regression approach which treats outcome (degree of headache relief) as a continuous variable in the study of 149 chronic headache patients and their accompanying psychological changes. Anxiety and depression were significantly reduced for headache patients regardless of degree of headache relief. With somatization, however, degree of headache relief had a significant effect; the greater the reduction in headache, the fewer somatic concerns were expressed, especially for mixed headache. 
Exocrine pancreatic function in children with coeliac disease before and after a gluten free diet. This study was designed to determine the extent of pancreatic insufficiency in untreated coeliac disease and whether pancreatic secretion is impaired after a prolonged gluten free period. Three groups of patients were studied: group A comprised 44 patients, mean (SD) age 4.0 (3.1) years, with coeliac disease and total or subtotal atrophy of the intestinal mucosa; group B comprised 67 patients, mean age 4.4 (3.0) years, with coeliac disease but with normal morphology of the intestinal villi (after 12.9 months of a gluten free diet); group C comprised 49 control subjects, mean age 3.2 (3.0) years, with normal jejunal histology. In all subjects exocrine pancreatic function was determined by the secretin-caerulein test; bicarbonate concentration and lipase, phospholipase, and chymotrypsin activity were measured after an intravenous injection of secretin 1 clinical unit (CU) + caerulein 75 ng/kg body weight. Faecal chymotrypsin concentration was also assayed. No significant difference was found between values of the duodenal output of pancreatic enzymes and bicarbonate obtained in the three groups; however, 10 of 44 untreated coeliac patients showed tryptic or lipolytic activity, or both, below the normal limit for our laboratory. The mean value of the faecal chymotrypsin concentration was significantly lower in untreated than in treated coeliac patients (p less than 0.0001) or in control subjects (p less than 0.0001). It is concluded that untreated coeliac patients may have pancreatic deficiency independent of a decrease in enterohormone release. No primary or secondary pancreatic insufficiency was found in coeliac patients where the intestinal mucosa had returned to normal. 
Left atrial spontaneous echo contrast: a clinical and echocardiographic analysis. The clinical and echocardiographic variables related to left atrial spontaneous echo contrast were prospectively evaluated in a consecutive series of 400 patients undergoing transesophageal echocardiography with a 5-MHz single plane transducer. Left atrial spontaneous echo contrast was found in 75 patients (19%) and was significantly associated with atrial fibrillation, mitral stenosis, absence of mitral regurgitation, increased left atrial dimension and a history of suspected embolism. Seventy-one (95%) of the patients with spontaneous echo contrast had atrial fibrillation or mitral stenosis. Anticoagulant therapy had no significant association with spontaneous echo contrast. Multivariate analysis in 89 patients with mitral stenosis or mitral valve replacement showed that spontaneous echo contrast was the only independent predictor (p = 0.03) of left atrial thrombus or suspected embolism, or both. In 60 patients with atrial fibrillation of nonvalvular origin, spontaneous echo contrast (p = 0.01) and age (p = 0.03) were the only independent predictors of left atrial thrombus or suspected embolism, or both. It is concluded that left atrial spontaneous echo contrast is 1) a common finding in patients undergoing transesophageal echocardiography, 2) associated with conditions favoring stasis of left atrial blood, and 3) a marker of previous thromboembolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and those with mitral stenosis or mitral valve replacement. 
Resting energy expenditure in patients with newly detected gastric and colorectal cancers. Resting energy expenditure (REE) was measured in 104 patients with newly detected gastric or colorectal (GCR) cancer and was compared with two groups of control subjects without cancer: healthy subjects (H control subjects) and patients with nonmalignant diseases of the gastrointestinal tract (GI patients). REE in GCR-cancer patients was not significantly different from REE in GI patients or H control subjects. Comparison of measured REE with predicted REE obtained from prediction equations may erroneously suggest that increased REE is a contributing factor in the development of cancer cachexia. No significant differences in REE were found when patients with liver metastases were compared with patients without metastases. There were no differences in REE between gastric and colorectal cancer patients. The decrease in energy expenditure, which normally occurs during starvation and weight loss in healthy men and women, could not be demonstrated in weight-losing, GCR-cancer patients. In conclusion, elevation of REE contributes little to the pathogenesis of cancer cachexia in GCR-cancer patients. 
Comparative efficacy of short-term versus long-term cefoxitin prophylaxis against postoperative infection after radical hysterectomy: a prospective study. We report the results of a randomized, double-blind comparison of short-term versus long-term cefoxitin prophylaxis against infections after radical abdominal hysterectomy with pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy. Of 113 evaluable patients, 54 (47.8%) received short-term (three doses) and 59 (52.2%) long-term (12 doses) prophylaxis with intravenous cefoxitin (2 g per dose). No significant differences in demographics, preoperative risk factors, or clinical course were detected between the two groups; nor did we detect significant differences in the incidence of surgical-site-related infections (7.4 versus 5.1%, respectively, P = .61), postoperative urinary tract infection, or other febrile morbidity. We conclude that short-term and long-term cefoxitin prophylaxis are equally effective for the prevention of post-operative surgical-site-related infections after radical hysterectomy. 
Intravenous carboplatin for recurrent malignant glioma: a phase II study. Thirty patients with recurrent malignant glioma were treated with intravenous (IV) carboplatin (CBDCA) every 4 weeks at a starting dose of 400 mg/m2 escalating to 450 mg/m2. All patients had documented recurrent tumor after prior radiotherapy but had not received prior chemotherapy. Of 29 assessable patients, four (14%) responded to the treatment for 44, 51+, 72, and 91 weeks; 10 (34%) achieved stable disease (S); while 15 (52%) had progressive disease (P). The total response (responses plus S) rate was 48%, with a median time to progression (MTP) of 26 weeks in these patients; the MTP for all 29 patients was 11 weeks. The toxic effects were mainly hematologic, with thrombocytopenia and granulocytopenia being mild at 400 mg/m2 and 450 mg/m2 doses. NO neurotoxicity or renal toxicity was encountered. These results suggest that CBCDA given at 400 mg/m2 or 450 mg/m2 every 4 weeks is marginally active in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas. Since hematologic toxicity is mild, a higher dose could possibly be given, and may increase the response rate. 
Autologous fibrin gel: bactericidal properties in contaminated hepatic injury. Fibrin glue is an effective hemostatic agent in a variety of clinical situations; its utility is limited by potential transmission of viral infection. We studied the bactericidal properties of fibrin gel (FG) in a murine contaminated hepatic injury model and in vitro by agar plate culture method. Intra-abdominal abscess formation and adhesion rate were assessed following controlled liver injury in association with abdominal contamination with 10(7) Bacteroides fragilis and hepatorrhaphy (H, n = 15) or FG (n = 12). Animals treated by hepatorrhaphy had a significantly greater intra-abdominal abscess rate (15/15 vs. 4/12, p less than 0.05) and adhesion rate (14/15 vs. 6/12, p less than 0.05) than animals treated with FG. Fibrin gel is bactericidal to Bacteroides fragilis, Enterobacter faecium, Escherichia coli, and Staphylococcus aureus but has no effect against Klebsiella pneumoniae or Pseudomonas aeruginosa; the plasma component appears active. Fibrin gel demonstrates significant improvement in adhesion formation and intra-abdominal abscess rate when compared with suture hepatorrhaphy. Fibrin gel appears protective in contaminated hepatic injury. 
Blindness as an ictal phenomenon: investigations with EEG and SPECT in two patients suffering from epilepsy. Blindness is a rare ictal phenomenon in epileptic seizures. It can occur as an aura, as the seizure itself, or postictally. We investigated two such patients, in one of whom blindness manifested as an aura prior to tonic clonic seizures; the interictal EEG exhibited a spike-wave focus bioccipitally. In the second patient blindness occurred postictally. An ictal SPECT, carried out at the onset of the seizure demonstrated marked hyperperfusion in both occipital regions. 
Acute hemiplegia associated with HIV infection. An acute hemiplegia secondary to a large cerebral infarct is described in a 16-month-old infant with congenitally-acquired human immunodeficiency virus infection. Serial imaging studies during the next year documented improvement in his hemiplegia and a static underlying human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome should be included in the differential diagnosis of children with acute hemiplegia. 
Moricizine: a new agent for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias. Over the last several years, a number of new antiarrhythmic agents have come into use. One of these promising new drugs, moricizine hydrochloride (Ethmozine), is now available for use in this country. Although similar in some aspects to both quinidine and lidocaine, Moricizine hydrochloride is in many ways unique. The purpose of this review is to summarize the pharmacologic and physiologic effects of moricizine and to outline its clinical use. 
Success and failure with neonatal tracheo-oesophageal anomalies. In seven and a half years, one surgical team treated 67 consecutive neonates with oesophageal atresia and/or tracheo-oesophageal fistula. According to Waterston's classification, 28 were in group A, 12 in group B and 27 in group C. The mortality rate during the initial admission was 10 per cent, all seven deaths being unavoidable in infants in group C with multiple anomalies. Birthweight alone had no bearing upon the chances of survival. Primary oesophageal repair, including one suture-fistula procedure and one delayed primary repair, was attempted in 54 (84 per cent) of the 64 patients with atresia and was successful in 46 (85 per cent). All three H-type tracheo-oesophageal fistulae were successfully divided in infants in group A. Recurrent tracheo-oesophageal fistula developed in four (7 per cent) infants, one of whom (group A) underwent successful repair. One disrupted anastomosis was successfully resutured (group A), so an intact oesophagus was finally achieved in 51 patients, of whom six (12 per cent) developed anastomotic strictures and 21 (41 per cent) underwent surgery for gastro-oesophageal reflux. Of the 60 early survivors, 10 (17 per cent) underwent aortopexy for tracheomalacia. Whenever possible, primary repair is advocated in all infants. Even for those in group C with multiple, severe associated anomalies, the combined early and late mortality was no greater following primary repair (7 died of 12 operated) than after staged repair (4 died of 7 operated), but major anastomotic complications were more common in infants in group C (5 out of 19) than in those in groups A and B (3 out of 38). 
Assessment of quality of life by patient and spouse during antihypertensive therapy with atenolol and nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system. To evaluate differences in efficacy, safety, and quality of life, 394 male patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension were randomized to receive 20 weeks of either atenolol or nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) in a multicenter double-blind trial. A four-week placebo washout was followed by 8 weeks of titration and 12 weeks of maintenance therapy. Quality-of-life evaluation included clinical assessments by the patient and parallel take-home assessments by patient and spouse. Blood pressure was controlled equally in both groups. The total incidence of adverse reactions was similar in both groups, but a greater percentage of nifedipine GITS patients withdrew due to peripheral edema. Patients completing 20 weeks of therapy demonstrated a more favorable quality-of-life profile (P less than .05) for nifedipine GITS over atenolol in psychosocial (P less than .01), well-being (P less than .05), general affect (P less than .05), emotional ties (P less than .01), emotional control (P less than .05), vitality (P less than .05), and leisure (P less than .05) scores. Treatment differences were particularly pronounced for patients over 50 years of age and were not fully detectable until after 14 weeks of therapy. Deterioration in quality of life was associated with withdrawal. Spouses of younger patients receiving atenolol reported deterioration in sexual satisfaction as compared to spouses of patients taking nifedipine GITS (P less than .02). Thus age, length of trial, and third-party observation are important factors in quality-of-life assessment. Comparison of adverse reactions provides an incomplete measure of how well a drug is tolerated. In contrast, findings indicate that even subtle CNS-mediated effects on mood and well-being can be detected by quality-of-life evaluation. 
Esophagobronchial fistula and mediastinal tuberculosis. A 59-year-old man was seen with what preoperatively was thought to be an acquired esophagobronchial fistula secondary to an old burned-out infection with tuberculosis. At operation the gross and microscopic findings were most compatible with a congenital H-shaped esophagobronchial fistula. However, cultures of calcified lymph nodes grew Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The need for culturing calcified tissue to assure proper treatment is emphasized. 
Acute appendicitis in patients with AIDS/HIV infection. Nine patients known to have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and/or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and operated on for acute appendicitis are presented. Six of the nine patients did not have an elevation in the white blood cell count preoperatively. Two patients underwent diagnostic laparoscopy prior to exploration. In four cases, a perforated appendix was removed. Seven patients had persistent postoperative fever, while all nine had a significant lack of leukocytosis after surgery. Other than the absence of a preoperative increase in white blood cell count, the presenting characteristics of this group were similar to those expected in immunocompetent patients. However, concern for a possible opportunistic infection etiology and a desire to avoid operating on these patients resulted in an undue delay prior to exploration. The use of diagnostic laparoscopy aided in earlier and more accurate diagnosis. Despite persistent postoperative fever, appendectomy was performed in patients with AIDS/HIV infection without significant increase in morbidity and mortality. 
Reduction in defibrillator shocks with an implantable device combining antitachycardia pacing and shock therapy. Implantable defibrillators reduce the risk of sudden death in patients with malignant ventricular arrhythmias, but significant restriction in quality of life can occur as a result of frequent device activation. To determine if a device that provides both antitachycardia pacing and shock therapy can safely reduce the frequency of shocks after implantation, 46 consecutive patients undergoing initial implantation of a defibrillator were studied. In all patients, the implanted device provided antitachycardia pacing and shock therapy. Detected tachycardia characteristics and the results of therapy were stored in the device's memory. There were 42 men and 4 women, aged 26 to 71 years (mean 58.7 +/- 13.5). Left ventricular ejection fraction ranged from 13% to 67% (mean 32.2 +/- 13.4%) and 31 patients had experienced one or more episodes of cardiac arrest. Induced arrhythmias included sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia in 38 patients, nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in 2 and ventricular fibrillation in 4. Over a total follow-up period of 255 patient-months (range 1 to 13, mean 6.1), 25 patients experienced spontaneous arrhythmic events. In 22 patients, 909 episodes of tachycardia were treated by antitachycardia pacing, which was successful on 840 occasions (92.4%). Acceleration of ventricular tachycardia by pacing therapy was estimated to have occurred 39 times. Syncope occurred once during pacing-induced acceleration of ventricular tachycardia. Forty-four episodes of tachycardia in seven patients were treated directly by shocks because of short tachycardia cycle length; 88% of all detected tachycardias were treated without the need for shocks. Four patients died from cardiorespiratory failure and one patient died suddenly without any detected tachyarrhythmia. 
Bleeding esophagogastric varices. Ways to treat active episodes and prevent recurrence. Bleeding from esophagogastric varices carries a high mortality rate. Active variceal bleeding can usually be temporarily controlled medically with a combination of intravenous vasopressin and nitroglycerin, with balloon tamponade, or with endoscopic sclerotherapy. Because of the high likelihood of recurrence, long-term treatment, such as repeated sclerotherapy, propranolol therapy, or shunt surgery, is necessary. The proper selection of such measures requires consideration of the site of variceal bleeding, local availability of specialized techniques, and patient factors. Only liver transplantation reverses the liver damage and offers hope of improved long-term survival. As success at identifying high-risk patients by endoscopic features improves, propranolol or other pharmacologic prophylaxis may become an acceptable treatment. 
Reorientation of the left ventricular long-axis on myocardial transaxial tomograms by a linear fitting method. A method is described for reorientating the left ventricular (LV) long-axis from myocardial transaxial tomographic data. On a midventricular transverse slice and on a midventricular sagittal slice, the apical and basal limits are selected successively by the operator. The linear activity profiles between these two limits are plotted line by line. In each profile, the two points with the maximum counts in the septal and lateral walls on the transverse slice, or in the anterior and inferior walls on the sagittal slice, are detected. The intermediate point with the minimum counts is then determined. The set of points with minimum counts are fitted by a straight line using the least squares method. This line is taken as the LV long-axis. In a series of 15 cases with stress-delayed 201Tl SPECT, the reproducibility of the reorientation with this semi-automatic method was compared with manual selection of the LV long-axis. In all patients, a successful reorientation was obtained with the present method. The reproducibility was significantly better with the semi-automatic method than with the manual selection of the LV long-axis. 
Nocturnal airflow obstruction, histamine, and the autonomic central nervous system in children with allergic asthma. A study was carried out to investigate whether an imbalance in the autonomic nervous system or release of histamine, or both, is responsible for the nocturnal increase in airflow obstruction in asthmatic children. The study comprised 18 children with allergic asthma, nine with (group 1) and nine without (group 2) nocturnal airflow obstruction, and an age matched control group. All drugs were withheld for three days before and during the study. On day 4 each child was admitted to hospital and a series of measurements was made every four hours for 24 hours. These included measurements of the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), heart rate and sinus arrhythmia gap from an electrocardiogram (an indirect measure of parasympathetic activity) and urine sampling for determination of catecholamine and N'-methylhistamine concentrations (measures of sympathetic activity and histamine release respectively). Urinary N'-methylhistamine excretion was significantly higher over the 24 hours in children in group 1 than in children in group 2, and overnight values were also significantly higher in children in group 1 than those in group 2. Mean (SEM) values (mumol/mol creatinine) were 154.6 (11.2) in group 1 and 110 (11.2) in group 2 for 2400-0400 hours samples and 139.2 (13.1) and 101.2 (10.6) 0400-0800 hours samples. There was no evidence of decreased sympathetic or increased parasympathetic activity in association with the nocturnal airflow obstruction; noradrenaline concentrations were increased in group 1. These observations indicate that nocturnal airflow obstruction is associated with increased release of histamine overnight. 
Regional cerebral blood flow after human cardiac arrest. A hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single photon emission computed tomographic study. We studied 30 patients 24 hours after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and 13 age-matched normal controls with the use of technetium Tc 99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single photon emission computed tomography. All patients were followed up for 12 months or until death. Frontal hypoperfusion (anteroposterior perfusion ratio, less than 0.90) was observed in 23 patients (77%). In eight patients who remained comatose and died, the total size of perfusion defects was larger (38% +/- 20%) than in the 21 patients who recovered consciousness (24% +/- 14%), but the anteroposterior ratio was similar in both of these patient groups (0.83 +/- 0.09) and significantly lower than in the controls (0.96 +/- 0.03). During follow-up, both the anteroposterior perfusion ratio and the relative defect size improved, but frontal hypoperfusion was still observed in seven of 13 patients. After cardiac arrest, regional cerebral blood flow is characterized by frontal hypoperfusion that tends to improve over time but that persists in most patients. 
Decrease in the size of tetanic responses produced by nitrendipine or by extracellular calcium ion removal without blocking twitches or action potentials in skeletal muscle. The effects of removing extracellular Ca++ ions or of adding the organic calcium channel antagonist, nitrendipine, were tested on twitches and tetani (100 Hz for 2 sec) in frog toe muscles. Under conditions that did not reduce or that potentiated twitches, both procedures reduced the size of the tetanic responses. This depression was seen as an inability to maintain the maximum tetanic tension for more than 0.5 sec. Intracellular microelectrode recordings showed that the muscle fibers were depolarized (mean about 23 mV) during the stimulus train and the fiber only slowly repolarized after the train. The latter effect is the "late negative afterpotential" and it is produced by the accumulation of K+ ions in the t-tubules during the action potential train. Neither the depolarization nor the late negative afterpotentials were decreased in amplitude by nitrendipine. These results indicate that the voltage-sensitive, slow Ca++ channels are opened by the accumulation of K+ ions in the t-tubules during the tetanus and that the Ca++ ions entering via these channels are required to maintain the full strength of the tetanic contraction. It is suggested that this is a function of these Ca++ channels concentrated in the t-tubules of skeletal muscle fibers. 
Sonography of focal lesions of the spleen. The sonographic appearances of benign and malignant splenic lesions in 154 patients are illustrated. Sixty-six of the 154 patients had malignant splenic lesions; 55 of these had malignant lymphoma and 11 had splenic metastatic lesions. The lesions were hypoechoic in 64 cases (97%), including all cases of malignant lymphoma, and were hyperechoic in two. Eighty-eight patients had benign splenic lesions; findings included cysts, infarcts, abscesses, hemangiomas, and calcifications. 
Rebound tenderness test. The usefulness of the rebound tenderness test in indicating peritonitis was prospectively assessed in 142 unselected patients admitted as emergencies with abdominal pain and tenderness. It was found to be of no predictive value. 
Localized depigmentation after steroid injection of a ganglion cyst on the hand. Presented is the case of a man who had localized depigmentation after local injection of triamcinolone diacetate. Search of the literature indicates that this is a rare complication of such therapy. Localized depigmentation may have important cultural implications for dark-skinned patients. There is some experimental evidence that less-potent and shorter-acting steroid preparations have a lower likelihood for depigmenting side effects, and such agents may be more appropriate when injecting subcutaneous structures to prevent this complication. 
Enterobius egg granuloma of the vulva and peritoneum: review of the literature. Two cases of Enterobius granuloma containing eggs only are reported. The first case involved the vulva, where no such granuloma has been reported previously. The coexistence of peritoneal granuloma and rectal adenocarcinoma in the second case suggests the possibility of direct penetration of the damaged colonic wall by the parasite, as emphasized by several previous reports of neoplastic involvement and perforation of the intestinal wall in cases of ectopic infections. The diagnostic criteria of Enterobius eggs granuloma, which might be a diagnostic dilemma for pathologists who are not familiar with such criteria, are described herein. 
Acute encephalopathy due to thiamine deficiency (Wernicke's encephalopathy) in a chronic hemodialyzed patient: a case report. We report the case of a patient with terminal renal disease on chronic hemodialysis who developed acute thiamine deficiency as confirmed by erythrocyte transketolase determinations. The patient presented with a confusional state and severe memory disturbances, but other classical features of Wernicke's encephalopathy were absent. Almost all central nervous system symptoms rapidly disappeared after thiamine therapy. Therefore the possibility of thiamine deficiency must be considered in patients on chronic dialysis who present with central nervous system disturbances, even if all of the classical features of Wernicke's encephalopathy are not present. 
Percutaneous transjugular portosystemic shunt. OBJECTIVE.--To determine the effectiveness of the Palmaz balloon expandable stent for the creation of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt. The device is designed to achieve portal decompression in patients with variceal hemorrhage secondary to portal hypertension. DESIGN.--Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunting was performed in eight patients during a 9-month period. Mean follow-up was 5 months. PATIENTS.--All patients had cirrhosis with portal hypertension and varices. Bleeding occurred in seven patients from esophageal varices and in one patient from hemorrhoids. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Shunt patency and recurrent variceal hemorrhage. RESULTS.--Shunts created from a transjugular approach between a hepatic and a portal vein (diameters of 8 to 12 mm) lowered the average portosystemic pressure gradient from 36 to 11 mm Hg. Mean postoperative hospital stay was 7.7 days. Complete variceal decompression after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement was identified endoscopically in all eight patients. The patient treated for hemorrhoids rebled and was treated successfully by transfemoral balloon expansion of the shunt diameter from 8 to 12 mm. All shunts were patent at 1 to 9 months (mean, 5 months) of follow-up. CONCLUSION.--Initial results suggest that transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt is a safe and effective method of portal decompression for the treatment of variceal hemorrhage. 
Histiocytic neoplasias: immunohistochemical evaluation of their frequencies among malignant lymphoma and related conditions in Japan. Through histologic review of 1,766 cases with malignant lymphoma and related conditions, 35 cases (2%) were selected as probable histiocytic neoplasias. Proliferating cells in these cases had voluminous, granulated cytoplasm, and round to irregularly shaped nuclei often with bi- or multinucleated forms showing monomorphous or polymorphous proliferation accompanying small lymphocytes, plasma cells, and, less frequently, eosinophils. Cases showing proliferation of convoluted cells with numerous benign-appearing histiocytes or large cells with clear cytoplasm were excluded under a diagnosis of T-cell lymphoma. To evaluate the immunologic character of proliferating cells, immunohistochemistry using antibodies Mx-Pan B, MB-1, MT-1, UCHL-1, lysozyme, alpha 1-antitrypsin, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, S-100 alpha, S-100 beta, Leu M1, epithelial membrane antigen, and Ki-1 were carried out in 23 cases. Naphthol-ASD-chloracetate reaction and toluidine blue stain were also performed. These procedures revealed that 12 cases (52%) were B-cell type, three cases (13%) T-cell type, six cases (26%) true histiocytic type, and two cases null type. Therefore, the frequency of cases with true histiocytic neoplasias among cases with malignant lymphoma and related conditions in Japan may be 0.5%. 
Childhood predictors of future blood pressure. Blood pressure in infants and children is much lower than that in adults. It is suspected that children whose blood pressures are greatest for their age or body size may be destined for future hypertension. However, it is apparent that some children with lower blood pressures are also destined for hypertension as adults. Children with a family history of hypertension demonstrate greater blood pressure and heart rate responses to mental challenge. These responses are enhanced when a high salt diet is consumed. Increased maximal exercise systolic blood pressure and increased left ventricular wall mass in childhood add significantly to the prediction of future high blood pressure. In addition, the acquisition of excess weight for height from childhood to young adult life adds to the prediction of future blood pressure elevations. Both children and adults who are obese have significantly higher blood pressures than those who are lean. Approximately 34% of the variability in body mass index is explained by genotype differences at a single recessive locus, 41% by genotype differences at polygenic loci, and 25% by nongenetic factors. Thus, the genetic influence of obesity may be an important factor responsible for elevated blood pressure in both children and adults. 
Anemia and postoperative apnea in former preterm infants. To examine the association between anemia and postoperative apnea in former preterm infants, 24 former preterm infants of less than 60 weeks postconceptual age undergoing inguinal hernia repair were studied. A hematocrit of at least 25% was required for study participation. General endotracheal inhalational anesthesia, supplemented with neuromuscular blockade and controlled ventilation, was used. No barbiturates or opioids were administered. Respiratory pattern and heart rate were recorded for at least 12 h postoperatively using an impedance pneumograph. Tracings were analyzed for evidence of apnea, periodic breathing, and/or bradycardia by a pulmonologist unaware of the hematologic profile of the infant. Nineteen patients had a hematocrit of 30% or greater (group 1). Their mean (+/- standard deviation [SD]) gestational age was 33.5 +/- 2.7 weeks and postconceptual age 45.5 +/- 4.6 weeks. Five infants had a hematocrit less than 30% (group 2). Their mean gestational age (+/- SD) was 32.4 +/- 3.2 weeks and postconceptual age 43.6 +/- 5.5 weeks. Anemic infants had an 80% incidence of postoperative apnea versus 21% in infants with a normal hematocrit (P less than .03). In the infants who developed postoperative prolonged apnea and/or bradycardia, a prior history of apnea was equally present in both groups (21% in group 1 and 20% in group 2). This study shows that anemia in former preterm infants can be associated with an increased incidence of postoperative apnea. 
Haemangioma of the urinary tract: review of the literature. General features. Haemangiomas are benign vascular tumours. They can regress spontaneously as a result of fibrosclerosis, suggesting a conservative approach wherever possible. Asymptomatic haemangiomas do not require treatment. Renal haemangioma. In all, 198 cases have been reported. The lesion is usually solitary and unilateral and occurs most often in the pyramid, and in the mucosa or subepithelial tissue of the pelvis. In some cases a tentative diagnosis of haemangioma has been made by means of selective renal angiography and pre- or per-operative renoscopy. Partial nephrectomy is recommended in cases of minor haemangioma. Ureteric haemangioma. Six cases have been described. When haemangioma is suspected a conservative operation is recommended. Bladder haemangioma. A total of 106 cases have been reported. Many of the tumours had the characteristics of an iceberg, with considerable extravesical extension making endoscopic management less suitable because of the possibility of massive haemorrhage or recurrence. Consequently, many authors prefer local excision. In the case of endoscopic treatment the patient should be prepared for open surgery. Urethral haemangioma. Twenty cases have been described. The lesions often extend further than is immediately apparent. Endoscopic management is recommended for small lesions and, in the case of more extensive lesions, open exploration is advised followed by appropriate urethral reconstruction. 
Gastrointestinal complications in 4473 patients who underwent cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Thirty-nine gastrointestinal complications occurred in 35 of 4473 patients (0.78 per cent) who underwent surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass during an 8-year period. The mortality rate when one of these complications occurred was 22 (63 per cent) representing 11.5 per cent of the 191 deaths from all causes in the series. The relative risk of developing a gastrointestinal complication was 1:249 when the heart was not opened, 1:66 when it was and 1:5 after cardiac transplantation. Gastrointestinal bleeding (n = 20) was the most common complication of whom nine (45 per cent) died, followed by intestinal infarction (n = 12) with eight (67 per cent) deaths and acute pancreatitis (n = 6) all of whom died. There was one death after surgery for gastrointestinal bleeding (n = 7). No patient survived bowel infarction without operation but resection was possible in five of the eight who underwent surgery, four of whom survived. The results demonstrate that surgical intervention is not associated with undue mortality but inappropriate conservative therapy is poorly tolerated in this high-risk group. 
Familial enteric neuropathy with pseudoobstruction. We report a case of autosomal dominant chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to a familial enteric neuropathy. Esophagogastrointestinal manometry studies in the index case showed decreased postprandial contractile frequency with normal amplitude of pressure activity in the stomach and small bowel. Pupillary function and autonomic reflexes were all normal, excluding an extrinsic autonomic neuropathy of the viscera. Histologic examination of the small intestine by hematoxylin and eosin stains revealed normal smooth muscles but a reduced number of neurons in the myenteric plexus without inflammatory cells or neuroNal intranuclear inclusions. Histologic examination of the myenteric plexus using the sections taken along the longitudinal axis of the intestine, stained with silver by the Smith technique, disclosed decreased numbers of argyrophilic neurons and degeneration of neurons and axons; however, there was no reactive increase in the number of glial cell nuclei. The patient's mother had suffered from chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, which did not abate following extensive small bowel resection. This is the third family reported with an autosomal dominant enteric neuropathy unassociated with evidence of extrinsic autonomic or peripheral neuropathy. Subtotal resection of the small bowel was followed by recurrence of the pseudoobstruction syndrome in both affected members of the family. 
Does the retrocecal position of the vermiform appendix alter the clinical course of acute appendicitis? A prospective analysis. Ninety-four adult patients undergoing appendectomy for acute appendicitis were prospectively studied during a 2-year period. Patients were divided into retrocecal (group 1; n = 27 [29%]) and anterior (group 2; n = 67 [71%]) groups according to the position of the appendix. There was no statistical difference between the two groups in duration of symptoms, presenting signs and symptoms, and initial white blood cell count. Furthermore, retrocecal appendicitis was not associated with a higher rate of perforation or increased morbidity. We conclude that the retrocecal position of the appendix does not alter the presentation of appendicitis. 
Transmetatarsal amputation: the role of adjunctive revascularization. Over a 12-year period, 160 transmetatarsal amputations were performed in patients with peripheral vascular occlusive disease. The following groups were defined: group 1 - nonreconstructable disease (n = 40); group 2 - transmetatarsal amputation in conjunction with distal revascularization (n = 99); group 3 - reconstructable disease but transmetatarsal amputation performed without simultaneous revascularization (n = 21). There were nine early deaths in the entire series, for an operative mortality rate of 5.6%. The lowest rate of transmetatarsal amputation healing (24%) occurred in group 1. An 86% healing rate was achieved in group 3, but in seven cases (33%) some type of revascularization was required within 3 months of the amputation. In group 2 the healing rate was 62% but reached 83% where the bypass remained patent for at least 3 months after the amputation. Long-term patency rates also affected healing. Healing was not influenced by the number of local procedures (single vs multiple). The presence of severe infection or extensive necrosis necessitated open transmetatarsal amputation in 89 cases; the remaining 71 amputations involved primary closure. Since many patients were treated at a time when diagnostic modalities as well as the operative indications and techniques differed somewhat from the current practice, much of the information regarding group I patients in particular should be considered as a negative historical control and any conclusion from our data should be adjusted accordingly. Healing after amputation at the transmetatarsal level can be expected in the majority of instances in which revascularization can be performed with predictable patency, even when the standard criteria for performing such amputations are liberalized. 
Idiopathic gastroparesis in patients with unexplained nausea and vomiting. Nausea and vomiting are symptoms sometimes associated with motor dysfunction. We compared a group of young patients suffering from chronic nausea and/or vomiting and normal upper gastrointestinal x-ray series with a control group. The members of both groups underwent isotopic examinations of their stomachs. The aim of the study was to find a simple method of checking the stomach and proving a motor dysfunction in a group of patients with chronic, inexplicable nausea and vomiting. Patients and controls fasted for at least 6 hr were given 0.5 mCI of [99mTc] diethylene triaminopentaacetic acid orally in 150 cc milk with 50 g cornflakes. A time-activity curve was obtained and radioactivity over the stomach was recorded exponentially. The parameter of the T1/2 emptying time was used. In normal controls T1/2 emptying time ranged from 18 to 26 min. Twenty-five symptomatic patients were examined, three of whom achieved normal values, but 22 patients showed pathologic results ranging from 36 to 184 min. In patients with chronic nausea and/or vomiting an isotopic examination of the stomach may provide a simple and rapid diagnostic method of evaluation. 
Correction of a human beta S-globin gene by gene targeting. As a step toward using gene targeting for gene therapy, we have corrected a human beta S-globin gene to the normal beta A allele by homologous recombination in the mouse-human hybrid cell line BSM. BSM is derived from a mouse erythroleukemia cell line and carries a single human chromosome 11 with the beta S-globin allele. A beta A-globin targeting construct containing a unique oligomer and a neomycin-resistance gene was electroporated into the BSM cells, which were then placed under G418 selection. Then 126 resulting pools containing a total of approximately 29,000 G418-resistant clones were screened by PCR for the presence of a targeted recombinant: 3 positive pools were identified. A targeted clone was isolated by replating one of the positive pools into smaller pools and rescreening by PCR, followed by dilution cloning. Southern blot analysis demonstrated that the isolated clone had been targeted as planned. The correction of the beta S allele to beta A was confirmed both by allele-specific PCR and by allele-specific antibodies. Expression studies comparing the uninduced and induced RNA levels in unmodified BSM cells and in the targeted clone showed no significant alteration in the ability of the targeted clone to undergo induction, despite the potentially disrupting presence of a transcriptionally active neomycin gene 5' to the human beta A-globin gene. Thus gene targeting can correct a beta S allele to beta A, and the use of a selectable helper gene need not significantly interfere with the induction of the corrected gene. 
N-myc genomic content and DNA ploidy in stage IVS neuroblastoma. DNA ploidy and N-myc genomic content were analyzed in a series of stage IVS neuroblastomas by flow cytometry and Southern blot hybridization, respectively. Of the 12 stage IVS neuroblastomas studied, nine were aneuploid (DNA index [DI] greater than 1), two were diploid (DI = 1), and one was not assessable for DNA content due to insufficient tumor material. N-myc gene amplification was present in two of 12 tumors. None of the aneuploid tumors exhibited N-myc amplification. Among the aneuploid neuroblastomas, the DIs were between 1.27 and 1.60, ie, in the near-triploid range. The follow-up from diagnosis ranged from 1 to 41 months (mean, 20 months). The nine neuroblastomas with near-triploid DNA content were free of disease at the end of the follow-up period. In contrast, a rapid and fatal tumor progression was observed for the three neuroblastomas with N-myc amplification and/or diploidy. Although involving only a limited series, these results strongly suggest that the combined analysis of DNA ploidy and N-myc genomic content could predict clinical outcome in stage IVS neuroblastoma and should help to identify patients for whom a more aggressive therapy is required. 
Long-term results after lateral cranial base surgery. The surgical management of patients with slow-growing benign temporal bone neoplasms has been criticized because of its significant morbidity and mortality compared with results after radiation therapy, but long-term control by irradiation remains unproved. Long-term surgical results have not been studied previously. One hundred twenty-nine skull base operations were performed in 126 patients at the Otology Group, Nashville, Tenn., from January 1970 through May 1987. Fifty-eight patients responded to questionnaires focusing on recovery from loss of cranial nerves. All patients regained some degree of facial function (class V or better), no alimentary tubes or tracheotomies were in use, and no patients had debilitating aspiration. Long-term compensation from the cranial nerve deficits of lateral skull base surgery can be expected in most patients and should not be used as an argument for irradiation in patients with a long life expectancy at time of diagnosis. 
Intracerebral temperature in neurosurgical patients. Recent laboratory results have indicated that the ischemic brain is very sensitive to minor variations in temperature. This has created new interest in hypothermia and brain temperature. There is, however, very little information available regarding human intracerebral temperature and its relation to body core temperature during normal and pathological circumstances. We therefore made continuous measurements of the temperature of the lateral ventricle in 15 neurosurgical patients utilizing a newly developed technique with copper-constantan thermocouples introduced through a plastic catheter also used for monitoring intracranial pressure. The intraventricular temperature was higher than the rectal temperature during approximately 90% of all measurements. The largest temperature gradient measured was 2.3 degrees C. Usually the difference between the temperature of the rectum and the brain was much smaller, the mean value being 0.33 degrees C. For the patients in the most severe condition, the rectal temperature was sufficiently close to the brain temperature to afford a reliable basis for adequate clinical judgment. 
The potential roles of leukotrienes in bronchial asthma. Leukotrienes (LTs), in particular LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4, have been shown to be capable of participating in the induction of three related processes observed during the immediate reaction in bronchial asthma: edema formation, mucus secretion, and muscle contraction. Despite impressive evidence potentially implicating the LTs, the role of LTs in asthma is still unproved, and a positive answer to their critical actions in causing airflow obstruction will require studies with specific antagonists. 
Functional recovery of hibernating myocardium after coronary bypass surgery: does it coincide with improvement in perfusion? To determine the relationship between functional recovery and improvement in perfusion after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), 49 patients were studied. Radionuclide angiography was performed before, 1 month after, and 6 to 12 months after CABG to evaluate regional wall motion. Exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging was done before and 1 month after CABG to assess regional perfusion. Preoperative asynergy was observed in 108 segments, and 74 of them showed an improvement in wall motion 1 month after CABG (segment A). Sixty-six of these segments (89%) were associated with an improvement in perfusion. Eight segments that had not improved 1 month after CABG demonstrated a delayed recovery of wall motion 6 to 12 months after CABG (segment B). However, seven of eight segments (88%) already showed an improvement in perfusion 1 month after CABG. A total of 82 segments exhibited functional recovery after CABG and were considered hibernating segments. In the preoperative study segment B more frequently had areas of akinesis or dyskinesis than segment A (75% vs 34%, p less than 0.05). The mean percent thallium-201 uptake in segment B was lower than that in segment A (74% +/- 9% vs 83% +/- 8%, p less than 0.05). Functional recovery of hibernating myocardium usually coincided with an improvement in perfusion. However, delayed functional recovery after reperfusion was observed in some instances. Severe asynergy and severe thallium-201 defects were more frequently observed in these segments with delayed recovery. Hibernating myocardium might remain stunned during those recovery periods. 
Human immunodeficiency virus infection and diffuse polyneuropathy. Implications for rehabilitation medicine. Patients at various stages of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection require rehabilitation services. These patients present problems for each of the disciplines in a rehabilitation team, and all team members must confront the psychosocial and ethical issues involved with the disease. Patients with HIV infection may have polyneuropathy with multisystem involvement, including dysphagia, autonomic dysfunction, respiratory failure, bowel and bladder dysfunction, generalized weakness, a painful sensory neuropathy, and depression. Guidelines are presented for determining if inpatient rehabilitation or other settings are appropriate. Case management is a valuable strategy for the rehabilitation of patients with this complicated disorder. 
Intestinal absorption of cholecalciferol and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol in patients with both Crohn's disease and intestinal resection. We compared the intestinal absorption of cholecalciferol and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol in patients with Crohn's disease and resections of the small bowel. Patients were subgrouped into those with small (less than 100 cm), intermediate (100-300 cm), and large (greater than 300 cm) resections. [3H]cholecalciferol or [3H]25-hydroxycholecalciferol were given orally and serial blood samples were taken for measurement of plasma radiolabeled vitamin. Absorption of both forms of the vitamin decreased with extent of resection but 25-hydroxycholecalciferol absorption was always greater than that of cholecalciferol. When compared with normal control subjects, 25-hydroxycholecalciferol absorption in these patients was better maintained than that of cholecalciferol. These data indicate that vitamin D malabsorption reflects the extent of distal small-bowel resection in Crohn's disease. Treatment with oral cholecalciferol is sufficient in those with small or moderate resections but oral 25-hydroxycholecalciferol supplementation may be preferred in those with a severe short-bowel syndrome. 
Zinc sulphate therapy for Wilson's disease after acute deterioration during treatment with low-dose D-penicillamine. A 30-year-old woman with Wilson's disease was treated with low-dose D-penicillamine. After 12 days, treatment was changed to zinc sulphate because of severe neurological deterioration. The patient subsequently improved within a few days. During a follow-up period of 20 months, the effectiveness of therapy was evaluated by measuring copper and zinc levels in plasma and urine, and by 64Cu-loading tests. We conclude that sulphate therapy may be a satisfactory alternative, even when rapid deterioration occurs in the early stages of D-penicillamine treatment. 
Cardiovascular risk factors in primary hyperparathyroidism: a 15-year follow-up of operated and unoperated cases. The need for treatment of mild and apparently asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) is questioned, but a raised incidence of cardiovascular disease has been regarded as evidence in favour of surgery. While it is well known that several risk factors for cardiovascular disease (hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and diabetes mellitus/impaired glucose tolerance) are overrepresented in HPT, it is not known whether surgery provides long-term normalization in these respects and reduces the risk of premature death. In a 15-year follow-up of a cohort of 172 subjects in whom mild hypercalcaemia was initially detected during a health screening, it was found that 56 subjects had died. 17 individuals had been operated on for HPT, 47 individuals were persistently hypercalcaemic, while 45 subjects had serum calcium within the normal range (seven individuals were lost to follow-up). There had been no significant differences in blood pressure between these groups of mildly hypercalcaemic patients and age- and sex-matched controls at the initial screening, but at follow-up blood pressure was significantly higher not only in subjects with persistent hypercalcaemia, but also in those who had been successfully operated on for HPT. Neither of the hypercalcaemic groups showed any significant deviations from the controls with regard to indices of lipid or glucose metabolism. These findings suggest that there is no simple cause-and-effect relationship to account for the propensity toward high blood pressure in primary HPT. Consequently it cannot be assumed that surgery for HPT will eliminate the increased risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with mild HPT. 
Maturation of respiratory reflex responses in the piglet. Stimulation of chemo-, irritant, and pulmonary C-fiber receptors reflexly constricts airway smooth muscle and alters ventilation in mature animals. These reflex responses of airway smooth muscle have, however, not been clearly characterized during early development. In this study we compared the maturation of reflex pathways regulating airway smooth muscle tone and ventilation in anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated 2- to 3- and 10-wk-old piglets. Tracheal smooth muscle tension was measured from an open tracheal segment by use of a force transducer, and phrenic nerve activity was measured from a proximal cut end of the phrenic nerve. Inhalation of 7% CO2 caused a transient increase in tracheal tension in both age groups, whereas hypoxia caused no airway smooth muscle response in either group. The phrenic responses to 7% CO2 and 12% O2 were comparable in both age groups. Lung deflation and capsaicin (20 micrograms/kg iv) administration did not alter tracheal tension in the younger piglets but caused tracheal tension to increase by 87 +/- 28 and 31 +/- 10%, respectively, in the older animals (both P less than 0.05). In contrast, phrenic response to both stimuli was comparable between ages: deflation increased phrenic activity while capsaicin induced neural apnea. Laryngeal stimulation did not increase tracheal tension but induced neural apnea in both age groups. These data demonstrate that between 2 and 10 wk of life, piglets exhibit developmental changes in the reflex responses of airway smooth muscle situated in the larger airways in response to irritant and C-fiber but not chemoreceptor stimulation. 
Abrupt vessel closure following platelet transfusion post-PTCA. A successful PTCA was complicated by abrupt closure following a platelet transfusion which was given for control of local bleeding. Possible mechanisms of abrupt closure are discussed. Recommendation is made to avoid giving platelet transfusion following PTCA. 
Porencephalic cyst: a complication of fetal intravascular transfusion. A case of unilateral porencephalic cyst as a result of intravascular intrauterine transfusion is reported. Although other factors may have contributed, fetal bradycardia and relative hyperviscosity as a result of increased fetal hematocrit value were considered to be related to this event. Because some authors recommend direct intravascular transfusion to supraphysiologic hematocrits to prolong the interval between procedures, we would caution the use of this approach on the basis of theoretic considerations and the occurrence of this complication. 
Infrapopliteal bypass for severe ischemia: comparison of autogenous vein, composite, and prosthetic grafts. Results of 253 consecutive bypass grafts to infrapopliteal arteries were reviewed. Most (92%) were placed for rest pain (103) or tissue loss (130). Autogenous veins were used in 175 (69%) cases, composite vein-prosthetic grafts were used in 45 (18%), and prosthetic grafts alone were used in 33 (13%). Follow-up ranged from 0 to 101 months (mean, 19 months); 37 grafts (15%) were lost to follow-up. The operative mortality rate was 4%, and 5-year patient survival rate was 44%. Limb salvage was 82% at 5 years. The 5-year patency of vein grafts (63%) exceeded that of both composite (28%) and prosthetic (7%) grafts (p = 0.005 and p = 0.00007, respectively); but the patency of composite and prosthetic grafts did not differ significantly (p = 0.29). The patency of reversed vein (59%) and in situ vein grafts (74%) was not significantly different at 5 years (p = 0.34). Patency was also not affected by the site of the proximal or distal anastomoses or diabetes. The major determinant of long-term patency in infrapopliteal reconstructions continues to be graft material. Composite grafts offered no clear advantage over prosthetic grafts, and both should be used only when there is no other alternative to amputation. 
Experience with rehabilitation in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) represent a novel referral population for rehabilitation services. Limited information about the rehabilitation needs of individuals with human immunodeficiency virus infection is available. We reviewed 51 consecutive patients with AIDS referred to a rehabilitation consult service. Common problems encountered included generalized deconditioning (27%) and neurologic dysfunction (45%). Neurologic presentations were diverse and included hemiparesis, diffuse cognitive dysfunction and dementia, myelopathy, myopathy and peripheral neuropathy. Other patients were referred for wound care as well as the management of the local effects of Kaposi's sarcoma, various musculoskeletal syndromes and new onset blindness. Problems identified included impaired mobility (76%), difficulty with self-care (57%), impaired cognition (29%) and uncontrolled pain (37%). Among the rehabilitation interventions utilized were therapeutic exercise (73%), gait aids (45%), bathroom and safety equipment (45%), orthotics (29%), vocational counseling (4%), pain management (29%) and whirlpool treatments (10%). Five patients were too ill or refused treatment. We conclude that AIDS patients referred for rehabilitation have a wide variety of physical deficits, demonstrate a considerable degree of functional impairment and may require multiple rehabilitation interventions. 
Adnexal torsion. An unusual cause of abdominal pain in postmenopausal women. Adnexal torsion is a rare cause of abdominal pain in older women. Because the presenting symptoms and signs are vague, the diagnosis is not often considered. Lower abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting are usual in patients with torsion. Ultrasonography or computed tomography are useful diagnostic tests. Two case reports of older patients with adnexal torsion are presented to emphasize the diagnostic features of this entity, including lower abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and abdominal mass. Although the condition is uncommon, adnexal torsion should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal pain. 
Genetic analysis of autoimmune type 1 diabetes mellitus in mice Two genes, Idd-3 and Idd-4, that influence the onset of autoimmune type 1 diabetes in the nonobese diabetic mouse have been located on chromosomes 3 and 11, outside the chromosome 17 major histocompatibility complex. A genetic map of the mouse genome, analysed using the polymerase chain reaction, has been assembled specifically for the study. On the basis of comparative maps of the mouse and human genomes, the homologue of Idd-3 may reside on human chromosomes 1 or 4 and Idd-4 on chromosome 17. 
Effect of Helicobacter pylori infection on the severity of gastroduodenal mucosal injury after the acute administration of naproxen or aspirin to normal volunteers. This study asked whether Helicobactor pylori infection accentuated the severity of NSAID-induced mucosal injury of the stomach or duodenum. We evaluated the severity of acute mucosal injury and H. pylori status in 61 normal volunteers (ages 22-43 yr) receiving naproxen (1000 mg, n = 30) or aspirin (3900 mg, n = 31) daily for 7 days. NSAID-induced gastric and duodenal mucosa each were endoscopically graded separately for hemorrhages and erosions-ulcers on a scale of 0 to 4. H. pylori infection was identified by a sensitive and specific ELISA. Nine of the 30 subjects in the naproxen group and 12 of the 31 subjects in the aspirin group were H. pylori positive (p = NS). There was no statistically significant difference between the frequency of mucosal hemorrhage in those with and those without H. pylori infection (44% compared with 33% for those receiving naproxen and 90% of those receiving ASA, p = NS for each). There were also no differences in the frequency or severity of erosive mucosal injury seen, e.g., acute ulcers were found in 16.5% and 17.5% of infected and uninfected subjects, respectively. We conclude that the presence of H. pylori infection does not influence the degree or type of mucosal damage associated with the acute administration of naproxen or aspirin. 
Down syndrome due to de novo Robertsonian translocation t(14q;21q): DNA polymorphism analysis suggests that the origin of the extra 21q is maternal. Down syndrome is rarely due to a de novo Robertsonian translocation t(14q;21q). DNA polymorphisms in eight families with Down syndrome due to de novo t(14q;21q) demonstrated maternal origin of the extra chromosome 21q in all cases. In seven nonmosaic cases the DNA markers showed crossing-over between two maternal chromosomes 21, and in one mosaic case no crossing-over was observed (this case was probably due to an early postzygotic nondisjunction). In the majority of cases (five of six informative families) the proximal marker D21S120 was reduced to homozygosity in the offspring with trisomy 21. The data can be best explained by chromatid translocation in meiosis I and by normal crossover and segregation in meiosis I and meiosis II. 
Oxygen transport in cardiogenic and septic shock. OBJECTIVE: To review clinical studies of oxygen transport in cardiogenic and septic shock. DESIGN: Descriptive and prospective studies. SETTING: University hospital multi disciplinary ICU. PATIENTS: Critically ill cardiogenic and septic shock patients greater than 18 and less than 80 yrs of age. INTERVENTIONS: The responses to volume loading with colloid or crystalloid and infusion of catecholamines are documented with baseline hemodynamic and oxygen transport measurements before and after administration of catecholamines. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Nineteen patients in cardiogenic shock were studied. In three patients, invasive systemic mean arterial pressure was greater than 80 mm Hg and cardiac index was greater than 2.0 L/min.m2. In all patients, there were increases in oxygen extraction ratio that averaged 48 +/- 18 (SD) %. However, in 30 septic shock patients, extraction ratio was 24 +/- 2%. In both groups, the response to therapy was an increase in mixed venous oxygen saturation from 54 +/- 16% to 69 +/- 8% in cardiogenic patients (p less than .001) and from 75 +/- 2% to 80 +/- 1% in septic shock (p less than .01). CONCLUSIONS: There are widely differing oxygen transport patterns in cardiogenic and septic shock that may have implications for therapy. 
Repair of a cerebrospinal fluid perilymph fistula primarily through the middle ear and secondarily by occluding the cochlear aqueduct. A 35-year-old man had a 5-year history of fluctuating hearing loss in his only hearing ear. History and diagnostic tests indicated a perilymph fistula, a diagnosis subsequently confirmed by exploration. Primary and secondary repairs temporarily ameliorated symptoms. A spinal fluid to middle ear fluid pathway was identified by radioactive tracer. A patent cochlear aqueduct indicated on computed tomography scan was found and repaired through a posterior cranial fossa approach. Hearing was preserved, remaining relatively stable during the 2-year follow-up period. 
New trends in gallstone management. Many new therapies for the management of gallstone disease have been pioneered in the past decade. The object of this review is to equip the surgeon with the answers to all of the questions a patient will ask about gallstone therapy; the review is therefore didactic as well as comprehensive. 
Cardiac performance indices during hypervolemic therapy for cerebral vasospasm. The effect of hypervolemic preload enhancement on cardiac performance was systematically analyzed in nine patients following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patients ranged in age from 34 to 63 years, and none had a history of cardiac disease. Each patient underwent placement of a flow-directed balloon-tipped catheter and the following measurements were taken during hypervolemic therapy: pulmonary artery wedge pressure (PAWP), central venous pressure (CVP), cardiac index (CI), stroke volume index (SVI), and left ventricular stroke work index (LVSWI). After baseline measurements were recorded, hetastarch or plasmanate was infused intravenously at 300 cc/hr. Thermal output determination and pressures were measured every 15 minutes. The PAWP did not correlate in a statistically significant fashion with the CVP in the ranges recorded; however, a statistically significant correlation did exist between PAWP increases and increases in CI, SVI, and LVSWI (p less than 0.01). There was no statistical correlation between PAWP increases above 14 mm Hg and improvement in cardiac performance as evidenced by CI, SVI, and LVSWI measurements. It is concluded that CVP is an unreliable index of cardiac performance during hypervolemic therapy and that, in previously healthy individuals, a PAWP of 14 mm Hg is associated with maximum cardiac performance. 
Histologic and ultrastructural findings of tissue ingrowth. The Leeds-Keio prosthetic anterior cruciate ligament. A light and electron microscopy investigation was performed on a Leeds-Keio ligament removed because of rupture 18 months after implantation to repair an anterior cruciate ligament. The investigation showed fibrous connective tissue on the plane of the main stress force. There was elastin and adequate vascularization interspersed with Type I collagen fibrils in the area most distant from the ligament. The tissue near the Dacron fibers was highly cellular with a matrix of infrequent, thin collagen fibrils and abundant fine granular material. The growth of the host tissue occurred in and around a Leeds-Keio ligament in response to tensile stresses. 
Surgical method for treatment of syndactyly with osseous fusion of the distal phalanges. For the interdigital space plasty to correct a syndactyly with fusion of the distal phalanges, we adopted a new operative procedure, covering the exposed distal bone with local rectangular flaps designed transversely on both dorsal and volar surfaces. A full-thickness skin graft from the groin region covers the remaining raw surface. The procedure was performed in six patients, and the flaps measured 6 mm (width) x 12 to 16 mm (length) in four patients, 5 x 15 mm in one patient, and 5 x 18 mm in one patient. Partial necrosis was observed in only one patient, in whom a narrow flap of 5 x 18 mm was used. In the other five patients, however, the results were satisfactory on both external appearance and function during the follow-up period of 3 to 6 years. 
Flexible cystoscopy compared with ultrasound in the detection of recurrent bladder tumours. A combination of transrectal and transabdominal ultrasound was compared with flexible cystoscopy as a means of detecting recurrent bladder tumours. The study group comprised 50 patients who had previously had rigid cystoscopy. They underwent combination ultrasound in the out-patient department 1 week before flexible cystoscopy. Combination ultrasound identified 25 patients with recurrent tumours and flexible cystoscopy identified 26. Thirty-four patients (68%) preferred ultrasound, 10 (20%) preferred flexible cystoscopy, 3 (6%) preferred general anaesthesia and rigid cystoscopy and 3 (6%) had no preference. The main objection to ultrasound was the use of the transrectal probe. 
Ambulatory stab evulsion phlebectomy for truncal varicose veins. The management of primary varicose veins is evolving. Recovery time, cost, recurrence rate, and cosmesis are critical determinants. Classic "high ligation" and ankle-to-groin stripping is expensive, results in a long convalescence, and may produce unacceptable scarring and possible permanent nerve injury. This report describes the technique of stab evulsion phlebectomy performed in an outpatient setting. Under loco-regional anesthesia, and after high ligation, existing tributary and trunk varicosities are evulsed with specially designed hooks. The multiple stab incisions, 1.5- to 3-mm long, are closed with adhesive strips. Fifty-six patients, with 69 involved limbs, have been operated on during the past 9 months. Postoperative pain and complications were minimal. Convalescence was eliminated and all patients immediately resumed normal daily activities. Cosmesis was excellent. This technique is based on hemodynamically accurate principles. It effectively removes all varicosities, eliminates the proximal source of reflux, and disconnects potentially outflowing perforators, yet leaves in situ undamaged trunk veins, which may be used as potential vein grafts. 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma versus toxoplasmosis in AIDS. The imaging studies of 16 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and proved primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma were reviewed. All studies included computed tomography (CT); six also included magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. A periventricular lesion was seen in 50% of patients. At least one such lesion exhibited subependymal spread or ventricular encasement in 38%. One-third of lesions in three of five patients who underwent nonenhanced CT were hyperattenuating. Five lesions were at least in part hypointense on T2-weighted MR images. The specificity of these findings was evaluated with a similar review of the imaging studies in 28 patients with AIDS and proved toxoplasmosis. Only 3% of lesions were periventricular. None exhibited subependymal spread or encasement. None were hyperattenuating on nonenhanced CT scans. Similar findings in other CNS lesions in AIDS patients could not be found in the literature. A focal enhancing mass with subependymal spread on CT or MR images and hyperattenuation at nonenhanced CT were the most reliable features in distinguishing between primary CNS lymphoma and toxoplasmosis in AIDS patients. 
Predictive accuracy of electrophysiologic localization of accessory pathways. Operative ablation of accessory pathways depends critically on preoperative localization when technical limitations preclude complete intraoperative mapping. To assess the accuracy of localization, 345 patients undergoing operative ablation were studied; 316 (91.6%) had a single accessory pathway and 29 (8.4%) had multiple accessory pathways. The electrophysiologic study was diagnostically complete and accurate in 294 patients (93%) with a single accessory pathway and 19 (61%) with multiple accessory pathways. A left lateral accessory pathway was most accurately localized with excellent sensitivity (99%) and positive predictive value (98.5%). Diagnostic errors occurred in 33 patients because of 1) incorrect localization (n = 16), 2) failure to detect a second pathway (n = 9), and 3) diagnosis of a second pathway not verified intraoperatively (n = 8). Multiple pathways were more prevalent in the group with errors (33.3% vs. 5.8%, p = 0.0001), as were unidirectional pathways (48.5% vs. 24.3%, p = 0.003). It is concluded that preoperative localization of accessory pathways is sufficiently accurate to allow intraoperative mapping to be brief and focused. 
Index for optimum ventricular catheter length. Technical note. The optimum length of a ventricular catheter to be placed in a particular patient may be difficult to determine when either intraoperative ultrasound is not available or considerable time has elapsed between the diagnostic computerized tomography scan and the operation. An index for estimating ventricular length based on the head circumference of the individual is described. This method was tested clinically and proved to be successful. 
The influence of gender on the susceptibility to multiple sclerosis in sibships. A population-based study of pairs of relatives (siblings, second- and third-degree) concordant for multiple sclerosis did not show an excess of like-sexed pairs. In addition, data on human lymphocyte antigen typing for sibling pairs concordant for multiple sclerosis did not find an increase in haplotype sharing for like-sexed pairs. These data do not support the notion that sex-related factors influence multiple-sclerosis susceptibility in families. 
Intermittent short-term negative pressure ventilation and increased oxygenation in COPD patients with severe hypercapnic respiratory failure. With the aim of testing a method that allows increasing concentrations of oxygen to be administered to patients with severe hypoxemia and hypercapnia while avoiding the risk of increasing respiratory acidosis, we studied 17 male patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and severe hypercapnic respiratory failure. During 6 h and on one day only, all patients were given intermittent negative pressure ventilation (INPV) together with oxygenation starting at a concentration of 24 percent and increasing to 30 percent. Using this procedure, it was possible to raise arterial PaO2 to safe levels (from 47.2 +/- 3 mm Hg to 61.5 +/- 6 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) without increasing hypercapnia, and a significant drop in PaCO2 levels (from 74.4 +/- 9 mm Hg to 65.6 +/- 12 mm Hg, p less than 0.005) was even observed. One hour after INPV ended, the mean values of PaO2, PaCO2, oxygen saturation, and pH were also significantly better than prestudy values. We conclude that INPV and oxygen therapy with increasing oxygen flow could constitute an alternative option to intubation and mechanical ventilation in cases of severe hypercapnic respiratory failure due to advanced COPD. 
Sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with sarcoidosis: assessment of the underlying cardiac anatomy and the prospective utility of programmed ventricular stimulation, drug therapy and an implantable antitachycardia device. The presentation, cardiac anatomy and utility of programmed ventricular stimulation in seven patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with sarcoidosis are described. The mean patient age was 38 +/- 8 years. Pulmonary involvement was apparent in three patients and no systemic manifestations of sarcoidosis were present in one patient. All patients had electrocardiographic abnormalities at rest and six had a left ventricular ejection fraction less than 45%. All seven patients had left ventricular wall motion abnormalities and five had mitral valve dysfunction. Sustained ventricular tachycardia was easily induced in all patients. Spontaneous sustained ventricular tachycardia was not prevented with corticosteroid administration. Despite antiarrhythmic drug therapy, two patients had sudden cardiac death and an additional four had recurrence of ventricular tachycardia. Four patients had an automatic cardioverter-defibrillator implanted and received drug therapy; all four received appropriate shocks. This report represents the largest descriptive series of consecutive patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with sarcoidosis. Antiarrhythmic drug therapy of ventricular tachycardia in patients with sarcoidosis, even when guided with programmed ventricular stimulation, is associated with a high rate of arrhythmia recurrence or sudden death, or both. Thus, implantation of an automatic antitachycardia device (cardioverter-defibrillator) should be considered as primary therapy in such patients. Furthermore, sarcoidosis should be excluded, with Kveim skin testing if necessary, in any patient with sustained ventricular tachycardia of unknown origin. 
Detection of DNA sequence polymorphisms by enzymatic amplification and direct genomic sequencing. The discovery of RFLPs and their utilization as genetic markers has revolutionized research in human molecular genetics. However, only a fraction of the DNA sequence polymorphisms in the human genome affect the length of a restriction fragment and hence result in an RFLP. Polymorphisms that are not detected as RFLPs are typically passed over in the screening process though they represent a potentially important source of informative genetic markers. We have used a rapid method for the detection of naturally occurring DNA sequence variations that is based on enzymatic amplification and direct sequencing of genomic DNA. This approach can detect essentially all useful sequence variations within the region screened. We demonstrate the feasibility of the technique by applying it to the human retinoblastoma susceptibility locus. We screened 3,712 bp of genomic DNA from each of nine individuals and found four DNA sequence polymorphisms. At least one of these DNA sequence polymorphisms was informative in each of three families with hereditary retinoblastoma that were not informative with any of the known RFLPs at this locus. We believe that direct sequencing is a reasonable alternative to other methods of screening for DNA sequence polymorphisms and that it represents a step forward for obtaining informative markers at well-characterized loci that have been minimally informative in the past. 
Incidence and prevalence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in Harris County, Texas, 1985-1988. The incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis was determined in Harris County, Texas, for the period 1985 through 1988. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases were ascertained from four sources: area neurologists, hospitals, death certificates, and the Muscular Dystrophy Association. The age-adjusted incidences of 1.27 per 100,000 person-years in males and 1.03 per 100,000 person-years in females were lower than recent rates in the northern US, Canadian, and northern European studies but higher than rates in southern European studies. Comparisons with other recent incidence studies show less uniformity in occurrence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in both the overall rates and in the age- and sex-specific patterns, than was suggested by mortality studies. The incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis among blacks and whites was similar. Hispanic males had incidences similar to white males, although a deficit of female Hispanic cases was found in Harris County. The prevalence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis peaked in the 65- to 74-year age group at 33 per 100,000 population among males and 19 per 100,000 population for females. 
Extensive hepatic granulomas associated with peripheral T-cell lymphoma. A case of T-cell lymphoma presenting with marked hepatosplenomegaly and extensive hepatic granulomas is described. A 55-yr-old female experienced long-term liver damage showing histological triaditis with atypical lymphoid cell infiltration and erythrophagocytosis. The patient developed marked hepatosplenomegaly and eventually died of respiratory failure. Neither systemic lymphadenopathy nor hematological disorder was noted until her death. Autopsy revealed small atypical lymphoid cells positive for T-cell marker, as well as extensive infiltration of generalized organs, including the liver, spleen, and lungs. As a result of diffuse proliferation of atypical lymphoid cell admixed with variable reactive cells, mainly at the T-zone, the lymph nodes underwent effacement of normal architecture; however, the peripheral sinuses and the fibrous capsule remained relatively well preserved. These histological features were consistent with a diagnosis of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTL). It is interesting to note that there were numerous epithelioid granulomas admixed with a small number of atypical lymphoid cells within the hepatic parenchyma. The atypical lymphoid cells may be responsible for the granulomatous reaction in the liver. To our knowledge, there have been no other reported cases of PTL that presented with numerous epithelioid granulomas confined to the liver. 
Perivalvular extension of infection in patients with infectious endocarditis. Perivalvular extension of infection is a not-infrequent and potentially fatal complication of bacterial endocarditis. Because the efficacy of various modalities in the diagnosis of such complications is not well established, a selective review of the published literature on this issue is worthwhile. The electrocardiogram is the easiest study to obtain. It is quite specific in identifying perivalvular extension of infection when conduction system disease is demonstrated but has a low degree of sensitivity overall. Transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography, and color-flow Doppler echocardiography are the most practical and useful techniques for diagnosis of perivalvular extension of infection. Magnetic resonance imaging also appears to be an effective tool in this setting; however, because of a paucity of clinical data, its precise utility has not yet been determined. Nuclear medicine studies and computed tomography play a minimal role. Cardiac catheterization is as useful as the echocardiographic techniques but is invasive, not as readily available, and significantly riskier in terms of complications. An approach to the diagnosis of perivalvular extension of infection is proposed on the basis of the literature review. 
Microvascular angina. Cardiovascular investigations regarding pathophysiology and management. A significant minority of patients with chest pain who undergo cardiac catheterization are found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries. Over the past 25 years, several studies have shown that a subset have demonstrable abnormalities in coronary flow and cardiac function; however, only a minority of these patients have convincing evidence for myocardial ischemia during stress, and alternative mechanisms have been explored to explain the frequent and debilitating symptoms of pain experienced by the majority of these patients undergoing study. Abnormal visceral nociception appears to be a fundamental abnormality in this population, whether or not demonstrable abnormalities in coronary flow or cardiac function can be demonstrated. 
Bazex syndrome (acrokeratosis paraneoplastica). An analytic review. Bazex syndrome (acrokeratosis paraneoplastica) is characterized by a psoriasiform eruption that favors acral sites and has been associated with an underlying malignancy in all reported cases. Of the 93 patients in this series, 89 were male with a mean age of 60 +/- 8.5 years. Squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck and squamous cell tumors of unknown primary with cervical lymph node metastases were the most commonly associated neoplasms, suggesting that the factor(s) responsible for the development of the syndrome are relatively specific for tumors of the upper aerodigestive tract. The cutaneous lesions were erythematous to violaceous in color and had associated scale; the most frequently observed sites of involvement were the ears, nose, hands, and feet, including the nails. In 63% of the cases, the cutaneous lesions preceded the initial symptoms or diagnosis of the tumor by an average of 11 months (range, 1-72) and, in general, the eruption was resistant to a variety of topical treatments. Occasionally, a reappearance of the papulosquamous lesions signaled the recurrence of the tumor (6 cases) or the appearance of skin lesions coincided with the development of metastatic disease (3 cases). In 91% (64/70) of the patients, the skin eruption either improved significantly following treatment of the underlying malignancy or did not improve in the setting of persistent tumor. However, even when all of the skin lesions cleared, the nail dystrophy often persisted. Fifteen of the patients developed vesicles, bullae, and crusts in addition to papulosquamous lesions. Possible explanations include the formation of an epidermal-dermal split via a bullous lichen planus-like mechanism, or the coexistence of two diseases; i.e., acrokeratosis paraneoplastica plus either porphyria cutanea tarda, bullous pemphigoid, or epidermolysis bullosa acquisita. One possible explanation for the development of the characteristic cutaneous eruption is an immune reaction, humoral or cellular, directed against a common antigen present on the tumor and the normal skin. Alternatively, tumor production of a keratinocyte growth factor such as TGF-alpha may be involved in the induction of the psoriasiform skin lesions. 
Attenuation of IL-2-induced multisystem organ edema by phalloidin and antamanide. Interleukin 2 (IL-2) is a potent cytokine with diverse effects, including the ability to stimulate lymphocyte differentiation into cells capable of lysing tumor. Its therapeutic efficacy is limited because of side effects such as breakdown of the microvascular barrier and edema. Control of the microvascular barrier is in part regulated by endothelial cell cytoskeletal contractile proteins. This study tests whether the cyclopeptides that maintain actin filament organization and distribution and reduce macromolecular flux across the endothelial cell junction in vitro would similarly maintain barrier tightness and prevent early edema produced by IL-2 in vivo. Anesthetized rats were treated at 30-min periods with intravenous saline (0.5 ml, n = 41), phalloidin (20 micrograms in 0.5 ml, n = 21), or antamanide, (20 micrograms in 0.5 ml, n = 21), starting 30 min before the 1-h infusion of 10(6) U of recombinant human IL-2 or saline. Six hours after the start of IL-2, there was edema in the saline/IL-2 group, as measured by increased wet-to-dry ratios (W/D) in the lungs, heart, and kidney. With saline/IL-2, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid contained an elevated protein concentration and higher plasma thromboxane levels compared with controls. The number of neutrophils sequestered in the lungs was more than twice that of saline controls. Phalloidin significantly attenuated edema in lung and reduced BAL protein leak. Antamanide treatment was as effective in limiting lung and heart edema, but, in contrast to phalloidin, antamanide prevented kidney edema and did not lead to an alteration in the liver W/D. Antamanide also prevented BAL fluid protein leak. 
Telangiectatic osteosarcoma. Telangiectatic osteosarcoma is a rare variant of osteosarcoma. In the original report from the authors' institution, a poor prognosis was noted. The authors have updated their experience with this entity. The prognosis for patients with telangiectatic osteosarcoma has improved remarkably. The prognosis in the present series seems to be the same as that for conventional osteosarcoma. Adjuvant chemotherapy seems to help in salvaging patients with metastatic disease. However, in this small series, survival of patients without metastasis is apparently not influenced by whether they received chemotherapy. 
Agonist-sensitive calcium stores in arteries from steroid hypertensive rats. The present study characterizes cellular calcium stores that are sensitive to norepinephrine and caffeine in arteries from deoxycorticosterone acetate hypertensive rats. Mesenteric arteries from normotensive and hypertensive rats were excised and cut into helical strips for isometric force recording. In calcium-free solution, phasic contractile responses to norepinephrine (5.9 x 10(-9) to 5.9 x 10(-6) M), but not caffeine (0.3-30 mM), were greater in hypertensive arteries. D-600, a calcium channel blocker, or removal of the endothelium did not alter phasic contractions to norepinephrine or caffeine. In contrast, contractions to both norepinephrine and caffeine were inhibited by ryanodine, a drug that depletes calcium from intracellular stores. An inhibitor of phospholipase C (2-nitro-4-carboxyphenyl N,N-diphenylcarbamate) attenuated contractions to norepinephrine but not those to caffeine. The augmented response to norepinephrine in hypertensive rats did not occur early after implantation of the mineralocorticoid, suggesting that this vascular change may not play a role in the development of high blood pressure in this experimental model. The augmented response to norepinephrine was reduced in mineralocorticoid-treated rats maintained on a low sodium diet, and these rats had blood pressures in the normotensive range. Because contractile responses to caffeine were not enhanced in arteries from hypertensive rats, we conclude that the cellular store for calcium is not enlarged compared with that in normotensive arteries. In contrast, the mobilization of calcium from cellular stores by norepinephrine is augmented in mineralocorticoid hypertension. This augmented response may be linked to altered phospholipase C activity and thus to an augmented action of inositol trisphosphate that releases calcium from intracellular sites. 
Stage I and II subdiaphragmatic Hodgkin's disease. From January 1971 to December 1986, 521 patients with Hodgkin's disease were evaluated and treated at the Yale University School of Medicine or one of its close affiliates. A total of 258 patients had pathologic stage (PS) I or II disease, with 239 patients having Hodgkin's disease above the diaphragm (ADHD) and 19 patients having Hodgkin's disease below the diaphragm (BDHD). A comparison of patients with BDHD versus patients with ADHD showed that patients with BDHD were older (mean age, 42 versus 28 years of age, P = 0.005), were initially seen less often with nodular sclerosis subtype (32% versus 77%, P = 0.00001), and had a higher male: female ratio (2.8 versus 1.2, P = 0.12). Ten patients with BDHD (53%) had positive findings at staging laparotomy (0 of 4 clinical stage [CS] IA patients and 10 of 15 (67%) CS II patients). Radiation therapy alone was the initial treatment of choice for 74% of patients with BDHD versus 94% of the patients with ADHD. There was no statistical difference in the overall survival or relapse-free survival rates for patients with BDHD versus ADHD (10-year survival rates, BDHD = 73% and ADHD = 81%). However, patients with BDHD who initially had intra-abdominal disease had a statistically significant increase in death rate (60%) due to Hodgkin's disease compared with patients with BDHD who initially had only peripheral nodal disease (0%). Treatment recommendations for patients with BDHD should be tailored to the specific clinical presentation of each patient. For most PS IA/IIA patients initially seen with peripheral nodal disease, radiation therapy alone is a successful treatment program. However, combined modality therapy should be the treatment of choice for patients with BDHD initially seen with intra-abdominal disease. 
Echographic diagnosis of anterior hyaloidal fibrovascular proliferation. High-resolution contact B-scan echographic imaging of the ciliary body and peripheral retina was performed on five eyes with anterior hyaloidal fibrovascular proliferation and media opacity by means of a wide (58 degrees) scanning arc. This technique determined the circumferential and anteroposterior extent of peripheral traction retinal detachment associated with anterior hyaloidal fibrovascular proliferation, which correlated highly with findings at subsequent vitrectomy. Final visual acuity of 20/400 or better was achieved in the two eyes (50%) with more limited peripheral traction detachment. In the presence of media opacity, anterior echographic imaging may allow early detection of traction retinal detachment associated with anterior hyaloidal fibrovascular proliferation and may be useful in characterizing the severity of this condition. 
Pulse oximetry compared with Doppler ultrasound for assessment of collateral blood flow to the hand. Ischaemic injury to the hand after arterial cannulation is a rare but well documented complication and routine testing of the adequacy of collateral circulation is widely advocated. The widespread availability of the pulse oximeter in the operating theatre. its applicability in circumstances where the patient is unable to cooperate, and its dependence on pulsatile blood flow suggest that this device could potentially be usefully applied to the assessment of collateral blood flow. The reliability of the pulse oximeter to detect the presence or absence of collateral circulation was prospectively compared to Doppler ultrasound in 109 hands from 64 adult patients. Nine hands demonstrated inadequate ulnar collateral flow, one hand demonstrated inadequate radial collateral flow and a persistent median artery was found in one hand. In all patients the results of pulse oximeter testing (probe placed on the thumb correlated precisely with the results obtained with the Doppler device (probe located over the lateral aspect of the superficial palmar arch). These results demonstrate pulse oximetry to be a reliable method of assessing collateral blood flow to the hand before arterial cannulation. 
Ionized calcium in blood: studies on patients with pulmonary disease. A new automatic ionized calcium analyser ICA 2 (Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark) was used for studies of ionized calcium (cCa2+) in the arterial blood of patients with a compensated respiratory acidosis due to chronic lung disease. The data for 16 patients showed an unexpectedly high level of variation in cCa2+ (range, 1.01-1.25 mmol l-1) despite the fact that there was only a small degree of variability in pH (range, 7.38-7.51). cCa2+ was not correlated with pH as has been observed in acute respiratory disturbances. A highly significant negative correlation was found between cCa2+ and base excess (BE) (r = -0.81, P less than 0.0001), and between cCa2+ and carbon dioxide tension (PCO2) (r = 0.71, P less than 0.002). These correlations differed from those reported previously in acute respiratory disturbances. CCa2+ showed a significant positive correlation with oxygen tension (PO2) (r = 0.71, P less than 0.002). It is concluded that cCa2+ in arterial blood from patients with chronic lung disease is correlated with acid-base and gas quantities in an entirely different manner to that observed in acute acid-base disturbances in normal adults. 
Macrophages, microglial cells, and HLA-DR antigens in fetal and infant brain. Immunohistochemical reactions for macrophages, microglia, and HLA-DR antigens were tested on frozen sections of necropsy brain tissue from 20 fetuses and infants ranging in age from 18 weeks' gestation to 8 months post term. No primary central nervous system disease was present but there were four cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Macrophages were detected in all the samples studied and were located in the germinal matrix zone, in perivascular spaces throughout the brain, and in the leptomeninges and subependymal layer. Well differentiated microglia were present in all cases examined after 35 weeks' gestation and less well ramified forms were seen at earlier stages of gestation. HLA-DR antigens were detected on a small number of macrophages, chiefly in a perivascular location, in all but three cases. The fewest reactive cells and the weakest reactions occurred in the youngest fetuses. One case of SIDS showed increased foci of microglia in perivascular white matter: this case and one other case of SIDS were the only cases with well ramified microglia that expressed HLA-DR antigens. These findings may be relevant to an understanding of local immune responses in fetal brain infections, including human immunodeficiency virus infection. 
Immediate mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates. Mandibular reconstruction at the time of tumor resection remains a surgical dilemma. Primary reconstruction allows for immediate reconstitution of mandibular form and function. Various methods have been attempted, but none enjoys uniform success. With advances in the field of microvascular surgery have come numerous options in replacing these defects. These procedures, however, require special surgical teams and are associated with an increase in operative time as well as morbidity at the donor site. An alternative method involves the use of mandibular reconstruction plates to bridge the defect between segments. This review focuses on 19 patients whose jaws were reconstructed in this fashion. Although not free of complications, mandibular plate reconstruction offers the advantages of (1) lack of donor site morbidity, (2) expediency, (3) excellent mandibular contour, and (4) the ability to reconstruct the condyle when necessary. The technique, results, and complications associated with this procedure are discussed. 
Modified approach for ethmoid and anterior skull base surgery. The use of combined craniofacial resection is well established for tumors of the ethmoid bone and the anterior aspect of the base of the skull. Mobilization of the medial fronto-orbital ridge improves the transbasal approach and can be performed with a monobloc bone flap. We describe an en bloc bifrontal craniotomy including the supraorbital ridges and the nasal bones. This provides a wider angle of approach to the anterior aspect of the base of the skull than any other method and avoids retraction of the frontal lobes. This type of bone flap procedure can be performed after a wide periosteal dissection in the coronal area of the scalp alone, without facial skin incision. 
Effects of a twenty-four-hour milrinone infusion in patients with severe heart failure and cardiogenic shock as a function of the hemodynamic initial condition. The systemic and pulmonary arterial hemodynamics of 40 patients with severe congestive heart failure were determined during a 24-hour infusion of milrinone (0.5 micrograms/kg/min) after a loading dose of 50 micrograms/kg. A subgroup (n = 18) with severe cardiac pump dysfunction and three patients in cardiogenic shock were analyzed separately; their hemodynamic response was compared with that of the total group (n = 40). After 15 minutes of intravenous therapy with milrinone, the total group (n = 40) showed an increase of 65% in cardiac index; in the subgroup (n = 18) cardiac index increased by 94% after 15 minutes and by 106% after 30 minutes. Likewise, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased after 30 minutes in both the total group (n = 40) and the subgroup (n = 18). The heart rate showed an overall tendency to decrease. The systolic blood pressure tended upward and remained statistically unchanged in the total group, whereas in the subgroup in which pressure was initially low, there was an increase in the systolic pressure after 1 hour and a further increase after 24 hours. Mean arterial pressure also rose in this subgroup. The early improvement in all measured hemodynamic parameters was sustained throughout the 24-hour infusion period. Development of tolerance was not observed, nor were any clinically symptomatic side effects or symptomatic arrhythmias. Thus intravenous milrinone is a safe medication for the rapid and prolonged improvement in hemodynamics, specifically in patients with severely restricted cardiac pumping function. 
Antihypertensive therapy: taking lipids into consideration. Several antihypertensive agents have been found to influence serum lipid profiles. Thiazide diuretics increase total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels and slightly reduce high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Most beta-blockers substantially increase triglycerides and lower HDL cholesterol. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium channel antagonists, alpha- and beta-blockers, and beta-blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity are lipid neutral. alpha 1-Antagonists (e.g., terazosin and prazosin) lower total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels and improve total cholesterol/HDL ratios. Observational epidemiologic studies indicate that the lipid effects of antihypertensive agents are large enough to account for substantial differences in the predicted incidence of coronary heart disease. Combination therapy with the alpha 1-antagonist terazosin plus either thiazides or beta-blockers also ameliorates the adverse lipid effects of these agents used alone. A reasonable approach to managing the lipid problems often associated with hypertension is to advise a cholesterol-lowering, low-sodium diet and weight reduction and to select drugs that alone or in combination do not adversely affect lipid profiles. 
Phasic sleep components in infants with cyanosis during feeding. Although brainstem immaturity has been postulated as one of the pathogenesis underlying cyanosis during feeding (CDF), there has been no widely accepted physiologic parameter that reflects brainstem function. We recently proposed that the dissociation index (DI), one of the phasic sleep parameters, is a reliable and quantitative sleep parameter for assessing brainstem maturation during early infancy. In the present study, we evaluated brainstem impairment in infants with CDF using phasic sleep components. Polysomnographies were obtained for 12 infants with CDF who were equally divided into 2 groups: one had or subsequently experienced apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome (ALTE-SIDS group) and the other did not (CDF group). Rapid eye movement density and the number of gross movements (body movements, including the trunk, lasting greater than or equal to 2 sec) in the patients were identical to those in the controls. In the CDF group, the decrease of the average DI value from the controls was significantly less than the decrease in the ALTE-SIDS group. CDF may be a mild expression of brainstem immaturity. DI appears to be useful when evaluating infants with cyanosis during feeding. 
The intranasal ethmoidectomy: an experience with 1,077 procedures. A series of 1,077 intranasal ethmoidectomies (825 with sphenoid sinusotomies) was performed in 600 patients over a 15-year period at The Mount Sinai Medical Center. The technique is a modification of the classical operation originally proposed by Yankauer. The rate of significant complications was 1.1%. A subset of 90 patients underwent 166 procedures and were followed an average of 3.5 years. The patients were analyzed according to whether the disease was focal or diffuse, infectious or polypoid, and whether asthma was present. The surgical success rate was 88% in nonasthmatics, but dropped to 50% in asthmatic patients despite total sphenoethmoidectomy. This underscores the importance of this condition as a biological modifier of surgical prognosis. Accordingly, a system of classification of sinus diseases is proposed based upon disease extent and type and whether asthma is present. 
Chronic diuretic therapy with moderate doses of triamterene is not associated with folate deficiency. The diuretic drug triamterene has previously been shown to be a competitive inhibitor of folate absorption in the rat intestine (J Lab Clin Med 1986;108:272-6). We therefore investigated whether human subjects who are taking the drug on a long-term basis are at increased risk of folate deficiency. In each of two free-living populations, a study was performed to compare the folate status of triamterene users with those not taking the drug. The first population consisted of 272 elderly individuals not living in institutions who were participants in a nutrition status survey and who were taking a variety of antihypertensive medications; 32 of these individuals were daily users of triamterene. The hemoglobin concentration, red blood cell (RBC) count, and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) values were not significantly different between the triamterene users and nonusers. The female triamterene users had a slightly higher serum folate level than the female nonusers (p less than 0.04); a similar pattern was observed among the men, although the difference was not statistically significant. The second population consisted of 27 individuals attending a hypertension clinic; 18 subjects were taking 50 to 150 mg of triamterene per day and nine were taking antihypertensive drugs other than triamterene. The hemoglobin concentration, RBC count, MCV, serum folate values, and RBC folate values were found to not differ significantly between the triamterene users and the hypertensive controls (p greater than 0.05). These data suggest that chronic triamterene administration in individuals not living in institutions, at the doses examined in this study, is not associated with indications of folate deficiency. 
Pulmonary haemosiderosis associated with left atrial myxoma. A patient with features suggesting pulmonary haemosiderosis was found to have a myxoma. The pulmonary lesion cleared after excision of the tumour. 
Fluorescence localization of early colonic cancer in the rat by hematoporphyrin derivative. Laser excitation of hematoporphyrin derivatives (HPD) localizing in tumors of the tracheobronchial tree and bladder is useful in the identification and treatment of those tumors. A comparable utility for HPD in the endoscopic localization of colonic tumors may be possible. In this study the ability of HPD to identify 1,2 dimethylhydrazine (DMH) induced colon cancer in rats is evaluated. A total of 111 rats were studied with HPD. Sixty-nine rats received weekly injections of DMH (20 mg/kg) and 42 received injections of the vehicle alone. Twenty-four hours after the intravenous injection of 5 mg/kg of HPD, 18 DMH-induced tumors were identified by visual fluorescence using excitation by either a blue light (390-436 nm) or an argon laser (488 and 514 nm). This represented 100% of the visually or microscopically detected tumors. Seventy-five fluorescent areas were noted that did not contain evidence of cancer. The majority (63) of false positive areas contained lymphoid follicles. All but 2 false positive areas (73/75, 97%, p less than .001) were seen in DMH-treated animals, suggesting that they were an artifact of DMH treatment. HPD fluorescence did not identify microscopic dysplasia. We conclude that HPD fluorescence is an effective method of identifying early colonic cancer and may have a potential clinical role in patients at high risk for colorectal cancer. 
Acute lower limb ischemia: failure of anticoagulant treatment to improve one-month results of arterial thromboembolectomy. A prospective randomized multi-center study. The value of short-term anticoagulant treatment in improving the early outcome in patients operated on for acute lower-limb ischemia has been debated and so far unproven. In this prospective randomized multi-center study, 188 such patients were randomized on admission, either to preoperative and postoperative anticoagulant medication (AC group, n = 94) or no anticoagulant treatment during the first month after surgery (O group, n = 94). Background factors were evenly distributed in the two groups, and 89% of the cases were considered as embolic. Analysis on an intention-to-treat basis showed no differences in outcome after 30 days. Good results, survivors who had amputation, and patients who died in the two groups are given respectively: AC group, 61%, 9%, 30%; O group, 65%, 11%, 24%. The results were similar in the two treatment groups also if only patients with a cardiac source of embolism were analyzed. Local bleeding complications were more common in the AC group (17% vs 2%, p less than 0.01). It is concluded that preoperative and early postoperative anticoagulant medication should not be routinely administered since such treatment is unlikely to improve the short-term results of lower-limb arterial thromboembolectomy while bleeding complications increase. The possible value of late (beyond 1 month) long-term anticoagulant treatment remains to be studied. 
Intraperitoneal contrast material improves the CT detection of peritoneal metastases. The preoperative detection of peritoneal metastases from gynecologic malignancies is difficult; in particular, CT often fails to detect peritoneal implants. This study was designed to determine if the administration of intraperitoneal iodinated contrast media would increase the CT detection of such peritoneal metastases. Prospectively, both standard and intraperitoneal contrast-enhanced CT studies of the abdomen and pelvis were performed in 16 patients with suspected gynecologic tumors. All patients then underwent operative staging, with the location and number of metastases documented. The intraperitoneal enhanced CT studies were more sensitive in the detection of peritoneal metastases than standard CT examinations. Whereas routine CT detected peritoneal metastases in seven (64%) of 11 patients with surgically proved implants, the intraperitoneal enhanced CT studies detected peritoneal metastases in all 11 patients. Depending on the specific intraperitoneal compartments involved, the sensitivity of intraperitoneal enhanced CT in the detection of peritoneal metastases was two- to fourfold greater than that of standard CT examinations. Our results suggest that intraperitoneal enhanced CT is superior to standard CT in the detection of peritoneal metastases. 
Higher recurrence rate after coronary angioplasty in unstable angina pectoris. PURPOSE: Recurrent stenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is a significant problem, requiring repeat dilation in about one-third of all treated patients. Various clinical and procedure-related predictors have been proposed. Between 1983 and 1987, 257 patients underwent 322 procedures, where 380 stenoses were attempted. Indications were: stable angina pectoris 73%, unstable angina pectoris 22%, other indication 5%. The primary success rate was defined as a less than 50% remaining postprocedure stenosis. FINDINGS: Repeat angiograms were done for 88% of the initially successful cases, either six months after PTCA or if there was a clinical recurrence. Restenosis was defined as a recurrence of a more than 50% diameter stenosis. The restenosis rate was 33% and was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) for unstable (46%) than for stable angina pectoris (29%). There was a nonsignificant tendency to a higher restenosis rate in the left anterior descending artery than in the other coronary vessels. IMPLICATIONS: The increased restenosis rate seen after PTCA for unstable angina pectoris could be caused by a higher activity in systems affecting the proliferative processes in the smooth muscle cells of the arterial wall, which is thought to form the pathophysiologic basis for restenosis after PTCA. 
Nutritional assessment of patients with extended left ventricular assist device support. The nutritional status of nine patients with end-stage heart disease who were supported by a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) for more than 30 days while awaiting cardiac transplantation was evaluated. Nutritional status was indicated by the following scale: 0-2, adequate nourishment; 3-5, moderate malnourishment; greater than 5, severe malnourishment. This scale was based on serial assessments of albumin, transferrin, total lymphocyte count, percentage of ideal body weight, midarm circumference, triceps skinfold, and arm muscle circumference. Each variable was compared with established standards before implantation and before transplantation times and assessed 1 point if less than the normal value and 0 points if within the normal range. At the time of LVAD implantation, 5 patients had a score of 0-2, 3 patients had a score of 3-5, and 1 patient had a score greater than 5. At the time of cardiac transplantation, 7 patients had a score of 0-2, 2 patients had a score of 3-5, and no patients had a score greater than 5. The patients who were able to meet at least 50% of their daily caloric and protein requirements by oral intake alone were noted. At LVAD implantation, only 2 patients (22%) met this requirement; however, 6 patients (67%) met this requirement at the time of cardiac transplantation. All 9 patients underwent cardiac transplantation, and 8 survived. Thus, it appears that extended LVAD support and maintenance of hemodynamic stability allow patients to regain the desire and ability to achieve adequate nutritional status, which may considerably reduce their perioperative transplant risks. 
Congenital arteriovenous communications and the development of two types of leaking retinal macroaneurysms. We treated a patient with a rare combination of congenital arteriovenous communications and the development of leaking macroaneurysms of different types. Initially, leaking macroaneurysms developed in the shunt area of the arteriovenous communication; later, a preexistent fusiform macroaneurysm in the afferent arteriole of the congenital communication started leaking. Because exudates and fluid from the leaking macroaneurysms reached the fovea, laser treatment was performed to obliterate the macroaneurysms. We assume that after obliteration of the macroaneurysms with laser in the shunt area, the increase of hydrostatic pressure on the thin wall of the fusiform aneurysm of the afferent artery led to its leaking. We saw no signs of vascular occlusion after laser treatment. 
Post-traumatic syringomyelia following uncomplicated spinal fracture. Two cases of post-traumatic syringomyelia presenting 10 and 41 years after spinal injuries that had caused lumbar vertebral fractures but no lasting neurological deficits are reported. In both patients the caudal end of the syrinx cavities, as shown by MRI, corresponded to the level of the previous vertebral fractures. Patients presenting with post-traumatic syringomyelia after uncomplicated spinal fracture are very rare, and the significance of the past history of spinal trauma may be overlooked. 
Stimulation of healing of chronic wounds by epidermal growth factor. We evaluated the effect of topical epidermal growth factor treatment on healing of chronic wounds in a prospective, open-label, crossover trial. Five males and four females who ranged in age from 40 to 72 years (average 57 +/- 9 years) were enrolled. Four patients had adult-onset diabetes mellitus, two had rheumatoid arthritis, two had old burn scars, and one had a failed abdominal incision. The average duration of the ulcers prior to treatment with epidermal growth factor was 12 +/- 5 months (range 1 to 48 months). Following failure of the wounds to heal with conventional therapies, including debridement, skin graphs, and vascular reconstruction, wounds were treated twice daily with Silvadene alone for periods ranging from 3 weeks to 6 months. No evidence of healing was observed in any of the patients' wounds during Silvadene treatment, and patients were crossed over to twice a day treatment with Silvadene containing 10 micrograms epidermal growth factor per gram. Wounds of eight patients healed completely with epidermal growth factor-Silvadene treatment in an average of 34 +/- 26 days (mean +/- SD, range 12 to 92 days) and did not reoccur for periods ranging from 1 to 4 years. One patient failed therapy. These results suggest that topical treatment of chronic wounds with epidermal growth factor may stimulate healing. 
Cognitive outcome following tricyclic and electroconvulsive treatment of major depression in the elderly. OBJECTIVE: This study sought to ascertain the affective and cognitive outcome after tricyclic and electroconvulsive treatment of elderly medical-psychiatric patients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression, some of whom had normal cognitive functioning and some of whom were cognitively impaired before treatment. METHOD: Patients who met criteria for major depression on the basis of a structured diagnostic interview and who scored 17 or more on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression were evaluated with the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale. The patients were then treated in a nonrandom manner with either tricyclic antidepressants or ECT (followed by tricyclic maintenance therapy). The majority of the patients treated with ECT had not responded previously to tricyclics. Follow-up psychometric testing was repeated in 6 months. RESULTS: Among the patients with normal pretreatment cognitive functioning, cognition was generally stable. Among the patients with pretreatment cognitive impairment, a substantial number--including those receiving ECT--demonstrated improvement in cognition. While the majority of patients improved with respect to both their affective and cognitive states, certain treatment-refractory subgroups were nevertheless identified. CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that cognitive dysfunction associated with depression may improve after treatment in a substantial number of elderly patients, including those receiving ECT. Relapse rates, however, may be relatively high, and residual symptoms may persist, which emphasizes the need for optimal initial and long-term antidepressant strategies for this population. 
Effect of propofol on the incidence of postoperative vomiting after strabismus surgery in pediatric outpatients. Vomiting is a common problem after strabismus surgery in pediatric outpatients. We compared the effects of propofol with and without N2O and droperidol to the effects of a conventional regimen consisting of halothane-N2O-droperidol on the recovery characteristics and the incidence of postoperative emesis after strabismus surgery in 120 ASA physical status 1 or 2 children. After induction of anesthesia with halothane-N2O, patients were randomly assigned to one of four groups. Group A (control) received halothane, 66% N2O, and droperidol 75 micrograms.kg-1; group B, propofol 2 mg.kg-1 bolus followed by infusion of 160 microgram.kg-1.min-1; group C, propofol (as in group B) and 66% N2O; and group D, propofol (as in group B), 66% N2O (as in group C), and droperidol 75 micrograms.kg-1. Patients in group B had more episodes of intraoperative oculocardiac reflex responses than patients in group A, but had shorter times to extubation, oral intake, ambulation, and discharge, as well as a lower incidence of postoperative emesis (P less than 0.05). The addition of N2O to the propofol anesthetic regimen (group C) was associated with an increased incidence of emesis (P less than 0.05), whereas the addition of droperidol to the propofol-N2O regimen (group D) did not affect the incidence of emesis compared to the other three groups. We conclude that maintenance of anesthesia with a total intravenous regimen using propofol results in a more rapid recovery and less postoperative emesis than with a halothane-N2O-droperidol regimen. 
Donor scleral graft patching for persistent filtration bleb leak. We report effective and efficient sealing of a persistent leak in a cystic filtration bleb by applying a full-thickness donor scleral patch. 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A new look at regression of gastrinomas. Of 44 patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated at our institution, nine appeared to have undergone "regression" of their gastrinomas. Six of the nine patients had sporadic gastrinomas and became permanently eugastrinemic following excision of nodal metastases and total gastrectomy (n = 4), antrectomy (n = 1), or pancreatoduodenectomy (n = 1) (mean survival, 13 years). The other three patients had Zollinger-Ellison syndrome as part of the multiple endocrine adenopathy type 1 syndrome and became temporarily eugastrinemic after total gastrectomy (mean survival, 11 years). Occult submucosal duodenal-wall microgastrinomas (mean size, 3.0 mm) were found to have been serendipitously excised in four patients. Long-term follow-up of these nine patients, as well as of six other patients described in the literature, demonstrates that excision of occult duodenal-wall gastrinomas provides a plausible explanation for the phenomenon of apparent regression of primary gastrinomas and the eugastrinemia that may follow total gastrectomy. 
Hormonal and metabolic response to operative stress in the neonate. It is evident from this review that newborns, even those born prematurely, are capable of mounting an endocrine and metabolic response to operative stress. Unfortunately, many of the areas for which a relatively well-characterized response exists in adults are poorly documented in neonates. As is the case in adults, the response seems to be primarily catabolic in nature because the combined hormonal changes include an increased release of catabolic hormones such as catecholamines, glucagon, and corticosteroids coupled with a suppression of and peripheral resistance to the effects of the primary anabolic hormone, insulin. 
Continuation of normal neurobehavioural development in fetuses with absent umbilical arterial end diastolic velocities. Detailed serial observations of behaviour were made in four singleton fetuses who were very small for dates and who had persistently absent umbilical artery end diastolic velocities for 2 to 9 weeks duration. All were born preterm for deteriorating maternal disease, and in two there were additional fetal indications for delivery. Behavioural comparison with 45 low risk singleton fetuses, at comparable gestations, revealed no significant differences in the development of behavioural cycles, the proportion of time spent in quiet cycles, or the amount of fetal breathing. None of the fetuses developed an abnormal heart rate pattern. We conclude that prenatal neurobehavioural development may continue apparently unimpaired in the presence of absent umbilical artery end-diastolic velocity of several weeks duration. Long term data of infant outcome are necessary before the clinical significance of this can be assessed. 
Nontraumatic abdominal aortic thrombosis presenting with anterior spinal artery syndrome and pulmonary edema. A 51-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer developed pulmonary edema and lower extremity paraplegia with preservation of proprioception as the initial manifestation of abdominal aortic thrombosis. Back pain was present in the lumbar region radiating to buttocks and legs in a bilateral radicular pattern. Femoral pulses were initially palpable. Aortic angiography revealed complete abdominal aortic occlusion at L3 as well as total occlusion of the bilateral superficial femoral arteries and bilateral common iliac arteries. Transient occlusion of the anterior spinal artery due to aortic thrombosis may cause paraplegia and may also progress to renal failure, bowel infarction, and limb loss if left untreated. Abdominal aortic thrombosis needs to be considered in a patient who presents with an anterior spinal artery syndrome, which, if present, must be treated as rapidly as possible to preserve motor and sensory function. 
Neuro-ophthalmologic signs of AIDS: 50 patients. In 50 hospitalized patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, signs of central eye movement limitation (28 cases) were most common. Peripheral eye movement limitations (18), abnormalities of vision (18), and abnormal spontaneous eye movements (15) occurred with about equal frequency. Meningitis (17), usually due to lymphoma (8) or Cryptococcus (8), was the usual cause of peripheral nervous system involvement, while toxoplasmosis (18) was more common than lymphoma (4) or presumed viral causes (8) in producing CNS dysfunction. The midbrain and pretectal (8) were affected about as often as the pontine tegmentum (9), but rostral brainstem lesions appeared to be the result of toxoplasmosis (4) or lymphoma (3), whereas a viral etiology was the presumed cause of most caudal stem involvement. 
Medullary catecholaminergic neurons in the normal human brain and in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is thought to cause degeneration of melanin-pigmented catecholaminergic neurons throughout the brainstem, but little quantitative information is available on the fate of catecholaminergic neurons associated with the dorsal vagal complex or medullary reticular formation. We therefore examined these neurons in the normal human medulla and in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease, using both a melanin stain and immunohistochemical methods with an antiserum against tyrosine hydroxylase. The greatest numbers of catecholaminergic neurons in the ventrolateral reticular formation (A1/C1 group) were located in the far rostral medulla, whereas the largest populations of catecholaminergic cells in the dorsal vagal complex (A2/C2 group) were found at the level of the area postrema. No loss of cells was observed in the A1/C1 group in the parkinsonian brains. In contrast, the A2/C2 group showed moderate loss of neurons, most marked at the level of the area postrema. This difference was entirely due to the loss of neurons in the medial component of the A2 group, a population that normally is only lightly pigmented, while the heavily pigmented neurons in the ventral and intermediate components of the A2 complex were unaffected. Parkinson's disease causes degeneration only of selected populations of medullary catecholaminergic neurons, without apparent relationship to the extent of melanin pigmentation. 
Efficacy of ivermectin for control of microfilaremia recurring after treatment with diethylcarbamazine. I. Clinical and parasitologic observations. We compared the efficacy of a single dose of ivermectin with that of a standard course of diethylcarbamazine (DEC) for the control of microfilaremia in 60 patients with bancroftian filariasis who had developed recurrent microfilaremia after each of three or more prior treatments with DEC. The study was done as a randomized, double-blind trial. Complete, but in some cases, transient clearance of microfilaremia was observed in both treatment groups. At one year, recurrent microfilaremia was present in seven patients treated with ivermectin and in five treated with DEC. Pretreatment levels of microfilaremia were significantly higher in patients who relapsed within one year after treatment than in those who remained amicrofilaremic. Side effects with both treatments were common, but mild. Febrile reactions were more frequent in the ivermectin group; localized reactions consistent with a flare-up of acute filarial disease occurred mostly in the DEC group. We conclude that ivermectin is an effective and practical alternative to DEC for treatment of recurrent microfilaremia due to bancroftian filariasis. 
Cholecystectomy is safer without drainage: the results of a prospective, randomized clinical trial. Drainage after cholecystectomy remains routine despite the lack of scientific supportive data. Numerous clinical studies in the past have attempted to address this controversy but have failed to resolve the issue for different reasons. These include retrospective design, inclusion of only selected cases, and randomization before surgery. In this study 479 patients undergoing cholecystectomy were randomly allocated to a drainage group (a high-pressure suction drain in Morison's pouch for 48 hours) or a nondrainage group. Randomization was performed at the time of peritoneal closure. All patients undergoing cholecystectomy, both elective and urgent, were included and the operations were performed by all grades of surgeons. There were two deaths from cardiopulmonary causes, both in the drainage group. No patient required reoperation in either group. The incidence of both wound infections (15 vs 5; p less than 0.05) and chest infections (56 vs 19, p less than 0.02) was significantly higher in the drainage group. Three hundred fifty-six patients underwent abdominal ultrasonography 72 hours after surgery. The number of subhepatic fluid collections thus detected was significantly higher in the patients who received a drain (17 vs 6, p less than 0.05). None of these collections was clinically significant. The postoperative hospital stay was longer in the patients with drains (10.3 vs 9.1 days), but this difference failed to reach statistical significance. We conclude from this study that the use of a drain after cholecystectomy serves no useful purpose and is potentially harmful. This practice should be abandoned. 
Individualization and enamel histology: a case report in forensic anthropology. The cranium of a native Indian child about six years old was found in 1979 near Taseko River, British Columbia, Canada. While the remains matched the report of a child missing for eight years in terms of race, age at death, locale, and elapsed time since death, the cranium and dentition were basically unidentifiable because of the claimed lack of medical or dental history. There was no dental work, and the parents were unknown or dead. We report the presence, in the dental enamel of the primary and secondary dentition, of stress markers, termed striae of Retzius, whose locations correspond well with anecdotal reports and recently discovered medical records which describe the timing of specific episodes of stress. The enhanced probability of personal identification from dental histological stress markers is evaluated. 
Idiopathic orthostatic hypotension, midodrine, and anaesthesia. A patient with idiopathic orthostatic hypotension receiving chronic oral midodrine therapy required anaesthesia for coronary artery bypass grafting. A perioperative infusion of phenylephrine was substituted for midodrine, an alpha-2 agonist, enabling hypotension resulting from low systemic vascular resistance to be controlled easily. Anticipated adrenergic receptor denervation hypersensitivity was noted. The only significant perioperative problem was one episode of syncope from orthostatic hypotension during the reambulation period. 
Hemidystonia due to a contralateral parieto-occipital metastasis: disappearance after removal of the mass lesion. A patient presented with left-sided hemidystonia. CT revealed a contralateral parieto-occipital mass lesion compressing the basal ganglia, which were spared by the mass. After microsurgical resection of the tumor, which was verified histologically as a metastasis of a large-cell anaplastic carcinoma, the movement disorder dissolved completely. 
Postsepsis bradycardia in children with leukemia. OBJECTIVE: We observed sinus bradycardia in a small number of children with hematologic malignancies who were recovering from sepsis. Our objective was to define this symptom complex and attempt to delineate its etiology. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review. SETTING: A pediatric ICU in a children's oncology hospital. PATIENTS: Children admitted to the ICU over a 24-month period who developed persistent bradycardia (heart rate less than 5% for age for greater than 1 hr) after an episode of sepsis. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Seven children developed postsepsis bradycardia. Six patients had a primary diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukemia and one patient had acute lymphocytic leukemia. All patients had positive blood cultures (Streptococcus mitis, n = 4; Escherichia coli, n = 2; and Klebsiella pneumoniae, n = 1). All seven children were clinically recovering from sepsis when the bradycardia developed. Neither hypotension nor other symptom was associated with the bradycardia. No therapy was given for the bradycardia. Echocardiograms and ECGs were normal in all patients, except for the presence of bradycardia. Bradycardia persisted for 24 to 72 hrs. After that time, heart rates slowly increased to the normal range for age. CONCLUSIONS: We speculate that this syndrome may result from alterations in beta-adrenergic receptor function or an unidentified humoral factor produced by the invading organism or as part of the host's response to sepsis. Prior drug therapy or the underlying illness may predispose to this condition, since all the patients had acute leukemia. As the bradycardia was clinically insignificant, invasive therapeutic or diagnostic strategies were not indicated. 
Shock wave-induced pancreatic trauma. A case is described of the appearance of a pancreatic or peripancreatic lesion after left renal calculus fragmentation by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL). Its anatomical location and subsequent disappearance suggest it was related to trauma caused by the shock waves. The brief literature on pancreatic injury after ESWL is reviewed, and the role of the patient's underlying liver disease in the genesis of this complication is discussed. 
The protective efficacy of recombinant hepatitis B vaccine in newborn infants of hepatitis B e antigen-positive-hepatitis B surface antigen carrier mothers. Recombinant hepatitis B vaccine has been shown to be as safe and effective as plasma-derived vaccines. However, its efficacy in the prevention of perinatal infection has not been fully evaluated in an endemic area. We recruited 110 high risk infants born to hepatitis B e antigen-positive-hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carrier mothers in a study of recombinant vaccine efficacy. They were randomized into 2 groups, A (54 infants) and B (56 infants), to receive 4 doses of vaccine, containing 20 or 10 micrograms of surface antigen, respectively, at 0, 1, 2 and 12 months of age. An additional 60 high risk infants were recruited later (Group C) and received three 20-micrograms doses of vaccine at 0, 1 and 6 months of age. All infants also received a dose (145 IU) of hepatitis B immunoglobulin soon after birth. Sera were collected at 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 12 and 14 months of age to assay HBsAg and anti-HBs. At 12 months of age the HBsAg carrier rates were 7.4 and 1.8%, in Groups A and B, respectively. In Group C the HBsAg-positive rate was 3.3%. HBsAg was invariably first observed between 0 and 2 months of age. Virtually all noncarrier infants developed substantial titers of anti-HBs at 12 months of age. No serious adverse effect was observed after vaccination. 
Multiple basal cell carcinomas and HLA frequencies in southern Australia. An association between HLA-DR1 and the development of multiple basal cell carcinomas was detected in southern Australia. A reduction in HLA-DR4 was found in patients with basal cell carcinoma compared with a local control group. The relative risk for HLA-DR1 was 2.1, which was lower than that for persons in farther countries from the equator. 
Successful operation on a coronary arteriovenous fistula in a 74 year old woman. Coronary arteriovenous fistulas are rare and are usually diagnosed in children or young adults. Most are believed to be congenital. A right coronary arteriovenous fistula was first diagnosed in a patient of 74. Despite her age the fistula was successfully operated on and her symptoms were relieved. 
Antitumor activities of interferon alpha, beta, and gamma and their combinations on human melanoma cells in vitro: changes of proliferation, melanin synthesis, and immunophenotype. The antitumor activities of human interferon (IFN) alpha, beta, and gamma alone or in combination were studied on four human melanoma cell lines (StML-11, StML-12, StML-14, and SKMel-28) in various concentrations (1-50,000 IU/ml IFN alpha, 0.1-1000 IU/ml IFN beta, 1-10,000 IU/ml IFN gamma) in vitro. In all experiments IFN beta exhibited the most potent antiproliferative effect of all IFN tested. After 3 d of incubation a 50% growth inhibition was achieved with 20-40 IU/ml for natural IFN beta and with 600-1200 U/ml for recombinant IFN gamma. Substantially higher doses (7,000 to more than 50,000 IU/ml) of recombinant IFN alpha 2a were required to achieve a 50% growth inhibition. A strong synergistic antiproliferative activity resulted from the combination of IFN alpha with IFN gamma and IFN beta with IFN gamma. None of the IFN tested induced terminal differentiation of melanoma cells in vitro. The formation of dendrites was inhibited, and the portion of differentiated cells in vitro was reduced after treatment with IFN in comparison to the untreated controls (untreated controls: 100%; portion of differentiated cells after treatment with IFN alpha: 58%-74%, IFN beta: 48%-96%, IFN gamma: 10%-33%). The melanin synthesis was slightly elevated after treatment with IFN alpha (untreated controls: 100%; after treatment with IFN alpha: 103%-157%, ns.) and decreased significantly after treatment with IFN beta (49%-71%, p less than 0.05) as well as with IFN gamma (80%-88%, ns.). Cell surface markers were modulated varyingly by the IFN: HLA-I antigens were enhanced by all IFN, with IFN beta emerging as the most potent inducer. Only IFN gamma, however, induced a de novo expression of HLA-DR and -DQ antigens and increased the expression of the ICAM-1 molecule and of the melanoma progression marker A.1.43. Possibly, these findings indicate a biologically more aggressive phenotype of melanoma cells. 
Cor triatriatum with isolated pulmonary venous stenosis in an adult: diagnosis with transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. The diagnosis of cor triatriatum in an adult was made from routine two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography. The findings of aliasing and turbulence in the roof of the left atrium suggested pulmonary venous stenosis. A transesophageal echocardiogram defined both the hemodynamic features of nonobstructing cor triatriatum and the presence of isolated pulmonary venous stenosis. The clinical use of transesophageal echocardiography with color flow Doppler in the elucidation of complex anatomic substrate is demonstrated. 
Mastoid surgery in childhood. The presenting features and operative findings in 105 patients aged 16 years or less undergoing mastoid surgery are reviewed. In 94% surgery was for chronic otomastoiditis, usually acquired, and associated with cholesteatoma in 64%. Post-operative otorrhoea persisted beyond 6 months in 44% and contralateral disease required some form of surgical procedure in 20%. Post-operative hearing thresholds were improved or unchanged in the majority of patients, most of whom underwent cortical or modified radical mastoidectomy. An improvement in the therapeutic results of mastoid surgery in childhood is clearly necessary, but requires a greater understanding of the aetiology of chronic middle ear disease. 
Doppler echocardiography for rejection surveillance in the cardiac allograft recipient. Echocardiography is noninvasive, allows real-time visualization of the heart, and can be performed serially without harmful biologic effects. It is also relatively inexpensive compared with other diagnostic modalities used for cardiac transplant rejection surveillance, such as cardiac biopsy, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. It is free of the potential complications associated with cardiac biopsy, such as accidental disruption of cardiac valves or chordae tendineae, ventricular septal perforation, introduction of bacteria, and the difficulty of obtaining adequate sampling for effective diagnosis as a result of formation of scar tissue. Unlike biopsy, echocardiography does not cause the patient anxiety and discomfort or use many physician and instrument or laboratory resources. Because the results of echocardiography are available within minutes compared with the hours usually needed for biopsy results, it allows prompt decisions regarding patient clinical care and treatment. In our work to date, echocardiography has not replaced the cardiac biopsy in surveillance of rejection in the cardiac transplant patient, but rather has become a useful adjunct to it. When echocardiographic findings indicate changes characteristic of rejection, biopsies are performed earlier, leading to earlier diagnosis and treatment. Furthermore, when echocardiographic findings are stable and negative for rejection, the number of routine cardiac biopsies performed can be reduced. This article discusses the use of echocardiography in surveillance of the cardiac transplant patient and the ability of echocardiography to augment the biopsy and clinical regimens in assessing cardiac allograft rejection. 
Abnormal automatic rhythms in ischemic Purkinje fibers are modulated by a specific alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtype. BACKGROUND. Recent advances in adrenergic pharmacology have made possible the identification of alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtypes using the specific blockers chloroethylclonidine and WB 4101. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the present study, we used these two blockers to determine the mechanisms responsible for automatic rhythms occurring during simulated ischemia and reperfusion of isolated canine Purkinje fibers. Experiments were done in the presence of propranolol to minimize beta-adrenergic contributions to the rhythms studied. In the control situation, all fibers showed membrane potentials greater than -90 mV and normal automatic rhythms. During simulated ischemia, membrane potential depolarized to the -60 mV range. Abnormal automaticity was seen in 20% of fibers not treated with phenylephrine and in 50% of those superfused with 1 x 10(-7) M phenylephrine. The incidence of abnormal automaticity was reduced to 0% by WB 4101 (which blocks phosphoinositide metabolic effects of alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation in the heart) and was increased to 90% by chloroethylclonidine (which blocks Na-K pump-stimulating effects of alpha-agonists). Moreover, the ischemic fibers were significantly more hyperpolarized during superfusion with WB 4101 than with chloroethylclonidine. Triggered activity induced by delayed or early after depolarizations was not seen in any experiment. CONCLUSIONS. Automatic arrhythmias induced by alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation during simulated ischemia may be attributed to a specific alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtype that is blocked by WB 4101. These results have important implications with respect to the induction of arrhythmias in the setting of ischemia and the means for their prevention or treatment. 
Secondary myelodysplastic syndrome complicating therapy for osteogenic sarcoma. A 12-year-old girl with nonmetastatic osteogenic sarcoma received treatment with doxorubicin, methotrexate, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, bleomycin, and dactinomycin. She developed unexplained persistent pancytopenia after completion of chemotherapy. Twenty-three months after the initial diagnosis of osteosarcoma an evaluation revealed a bone marrow pattern consistent with the diagnosis of refractory anemia with excess blasts, and karyotype analysis showed characteristic findings of therapy-related myelodysplasia (loss of chromosomes 5 and 7, as well as 12p and 17p deletions). Bone marrow transplantation from an human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-compatible sibling donor was performed 26 months after the diagnosis of the primary malignancy. Although it is unproven that the alkylating agents administered to this patient were responsible for the myelodysplastic syndrome, careful follow-up of osteosarcoma patients who receive alkylating agents is warranted. 
Gastrointestinal complications in 4473 patients who underwent cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Thirty-nine gastrointestinal complications occurred in 35 of 4473 patients (0.78 per cent) who underwent surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass during an 8-year period. The mortality rate when one of these complications occurred was 22 (63 per cent) representing 11.5 per cent of the 191 deaths from all causes in the series. The relative risk of developing a gastrointestinal complication was 1:249 when the heart was not opened, 1:66 when it was and 1:5 after cardiac transplantation. Gastrointestinal bleeding (n = 20) was the most common complication of whom nine (45 per cent) died, followed by intestinal infarction (n = 12) with eight (67 per cent) deaths and acute pancreatitis (n = 6) all of whom died. There was one death after surgery for gastrointestinal bleeding (n = 7). No patient survived bowel infarction without operation but resection was possible in five of the eight who underwent surgery, four of whom survived. The results demonstrate that surgical intervention is not associated with undue mortality but inappropriate conservative therapy is poorly tolerated in this high-risk group. 
Much ado about gastrin [editorial; comment] The regulation of gastrin secretion from antral G-cells is of major importance in the physiologic control of acid secretion. Gastrin secretion is highly dependent upon gastric intraluminal pH and is inhibited significantly by a pH of less than 3.0. Acute gastric alkalinization greater than pH 6.0 with antisecretory agents such as H2-receptor antagonists or H+/K+ ATPase inhibitors has little impact on fasting serum gastrin levels but promotes an enhanced sustained rise in meal-stimulated gastrin release. Courses of standard therapy with both H2-antagonists and H+/K+ inhibitors cause a significant rise in 24 h integrated plasma gastrin levels that is inversely correlated to the 24-h integrated gastric acidity. The rise in fasting or integrated plasma gastrin levels observed in patients treated with H2-antagonists is small and of unclear clinical significance. Therapy with antisecretory agents leads to earlier ulcer relapse than with other agents. A variety of factors have been proposed to explain the earlier ulcer relapse rate, including secondary hypergastrinemia with rebound acid hypersecretion after discontinuation of the drug. Secondary hypergastrinemia may also lead to tolerance to prolonged courses of H2-antagonists therapy with a decrease in acid inhibition. This may contribute to break-through ulcer recurrence during maintenance H2-antagonist therapy. However, the relative importance of hypergastrinemia and tolerance to H2-antagonists compared with other factors such as baseline gastric acid secretion, smoking status, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, and Helicobacter pylori status is difficult to assess. 
Indium-111-leukocyte imaging in acute cholecystitis. Eleven patients with suspected acute cholecystitis underwent sequential 99mTc-iminodiacetic derivative (IDA) and 111In-white blood cell (WBC) imaging to determine if 111In-WBCs accumulate within an acutely inflamed hemorrhagic gallbladder wall and, thus, could be employed as a reasonable alternative to 99mTc-IDA scintigraphy in detecting acute cholecystitis. Seven patients had surgically confirmed acute cholecystitis. Of these cases, five had a true-positive 99mTc-IDA and 111In-WBC, one an indeterminate 111In-WBC and true-positive 99mTc-IDA, and one a true-positive 111In-WBC and false-negative 99mTc-IDA scan. The remaining four patients did not have acute cholecystitis. All visualized their gallbladder within 1 hr after 99mTc-IDA administration and none had 111In-WBC gallbladder wall uptake. Both 111In-WBC and 99mTc-IDA scintigraphy accurately detected acute cholecystitis: hepatobiliary scintigraphy demonstrated a cystic duct obstruction and 111In-WBC imaging detected the inflammatory infiltrate within the gallbladder wall. The sensitivity and specificity of each was 86% and 100%, respectively. 
Recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma: a clinical, univariate and multivariate analysis of response and survival with cisplatin-based chemotherapy. One hundred two patients with recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck squamous cell cancer were entered into four consecutive phase II trials, all cisplatinum (C-DDP, 100 mg/m2/cycle)-based. The two combinations tried were C-DDP, bleomycin, and fluorouracil (CFB) on 54 patients, and cisplatinum and vindesin in 36 patients (CV). The CFB combination was given with C-DDP by continuous infusion over 96 hours (23 patients) or on day 1 (31 patients). The CV regimen was also given in two different schedules, with VDS at 3 mg/m2/g weekly (12 patients) or by a 96-hour continuous infusion (0.6 to 1.0 mg/m2/d) in 24 patients. The following variables: sex, age, performance status, previous therapy, local recurrence, length of disease-free interval (DFI), distant metastases, weight loss, primary site, histological differentiation, type of chemotherapy, previous chemotherapy, evaluable/measurable disease, erythrosedimentation rate, and their relation with response to chemotherapy (WHO) and survival were submitted to both univariate and multivariate analysis (Cox). Overall response rate (RR:CR + PR) was 25 (28%) of 90. In the CFB protocols, RR was 12 (22%) of 54 vs. 13 (38%) of 36 (P = 0.15, NS) in the CV combination group. For the four different combinations the RR was CFB C-DDPci 7 (30%) of 23, CFB C-DDP 1 hour 5 (16%) of 31, CV VDS weekly 2 (17%) of 12, CV VDSci 11 (45%) of 24. The patient populations were very different, with the latest combination consisting of metastatic patients exclusively. Univariate analysis of multiple variables showed age less than 60 years, PS:0 or 1, no previous therapy, absence of local relapse, metastatic disease, long DFI, and that measurable disease was significant for the probability of response. Median survival was 7 months for the 90 evaluated patients, 5 months for nonresponders, and 9 months for responders (P = 0.01). In the univariate analysis, significant factors for survival were PS:0 or 1, a weight loss below 10%, long DFI, response to chemotherapy, erythrosedimentation rate (ESR) of less than 30 mm/1st hr, presence of bone metastasis, and the number of metastases. Multivariate analysis shows PS, the absence of local relapse, and disease-free interval as significant prognostic factors for response. Multivariate analysis factors of significance for survival were PS, weight loss, and response to chemotherapy. The analysis of the clinical pattern showed an evolution in RR from 3 (8%) of 36 on previously irradiated local recurrent disease to 8 (73%) of 11 in previously untreated patients with metastatic disease at presentation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Visual evoked potentials and background EEG activity in migraine. To investigate whether quantification of the background EEG during a visual evoked potential (VEP) study is of value for the diagnosis of migraine we studied 8 unmedicated migraineurs between attacks, and 10 age-matched controls. Three paradigms were used: the first two concerned pattern-reversal VEPs with different analysis times (500 and 1500 ms), and in the third paradigm the pattern did not reverse. Power spectra were calculated for individual responses, and the delta, theta, alpha and beta areas of the averaged spectra were noted as indicators of background reactivity. Alpha and beta powers were consistently but not significantly higher in the migraine group. The difference was too small to be of value as a diagnostic test. Alpha power was (not significantly) lower in the presence of photic stimulation than in its absence. As this was the case in both groups photic stimulation does not explain the higher alpha powers in the migraine group. We conclude that EEG background activity during the VEP does not distinguish reliably between migraineurs and controls. 
Interferon-gamma reverses bone marrow inhibition following hemorrhagic shock. Hemorrhagic shock has been demonstrated to alter the myelopoietic response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Interferon-gamma has been shown to improve the immune response following experimental shock and injury; however, its effect on myelopoiesis is controversial. This study was performed to determine whether treatment with interferon-gamma will improve the bone marrow response to lipopolysaccharide after hemorrhagic shock. Rats subjected to either shock or a sham procedure were allocated into three groups: (1) control rats received no further treatment; (2) lipopolysaccharide-treated rats received saline for 3 days and then were challenged with lipopolysaccharide to stimulate myelopoiesis; and (3) interferon-treated rats received interferon-gamma (7500 U subcutaneously 1 hour after shock and then every day for 3 days) and lipopolysaccharide as in group 2. Serum colony-stimulating factor levels were measured 6 hours and bone marrow white blood cell count and granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-GM) were measured 24 hours following lipopolysaccharide administration. In sham-treated rats, lipopolysaccharide increased CFU-GM 77% compared with controls. In contrast, treatment with lipopolysaccharide decreased CFU-GM 43% following shock. Treatment with interferon-gamma increased CFU-GM in all animals and reversed the decline in CFU-GM seen in shocked lipopolysaccharide-treated animals. Serum colony-stimulating factor levels were unaffected by either shock or interferon-gamma administration. These data demonstrate that interferon-gamma exerts a stimulatory effect on bone marrow following shock and restores the myelopoietic response to lipopolysaccharide. 
Proliferative activity of neuroendocrine tumours of the gastroenteropancreatic endocrine system: DNA flow cytometric and immunohistological investigations. The proliferative activity of 16 tumour specimens from 13 patients with neuroendocrine tumours of the gastroenteropancreatic endocrine system was studied by DNA flow cytometry and immunohistology for the nuclear Ki67 proliferation antigen. Equivalent results were obtained with both methods, which showed the proliferative activity of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours to be heterogeneous. In four malignant small intestinal carcinoids and one extravisceral carcinoid localised in the retroperitoneum the percentage (index) of proliferating tumour cells as measured by DNA flow cytometry ranged from 2.9 to 36.2% corresponding to low, moderate, or high proliferative activity. In four malignant pancreatic endocrine tumours and their metastases indices ranged from 8.7 to 18.3%, corresponding to low, moderate, or high proliferative activity. In four benign pancreatic endocrine tumours indices ranged from 4.3 to 7.7%, all corresponding to low proliferative activity. This heterogeneity of proliferative activity may in part explain the heterogeneous results reported of chemotherapy treatment. As chemotherapy of tumours is largely affected by favourable cell cycling kinetics, individual diagnostic investigations of the proliferative activity of these neuroendocrine tumours may be of value for identifying patients suitable for this treatment. 
Experience with 225 hepatic resections for hepatocellular carcinoma over a 4-year period. During the past 4 1/2 years, we have performed hepatic resection on 225 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). These patients included 171 men and 54 women, whose ages ranged from 29 to 84 years with an average of 60 years. Underlying cirrhosis of the liver was found in 67% of the patients and chronic hepatitis in 27%. Patients undergoing hepatic resection were classified into five groups according to curability as follows: Group A, resection of the tumor-bearing segment and one additional segment; Group B, complete resection of the tumor with more than 1.0 cm free surgical margin; Group C, complete resection of the tumor with less than 1.0 cm free surgical margin; Group D, incomplete resection of the tumor; Group E, surgical approach for advanced HCC with tumor thrombi in the main trunk or the first branch of the portal vein and/or the inferior vena cava, with multiple daughter nodules in both lobes and with tumor recurrence. The number of patients in Groups A, B, C, D, and E was 12 (5%), 83 (37%), 58 (26%), 14 (6%) and 58, (26%), respectively. There were 4 deaths (2.4%) among the 167 patients in Groups A to D within 30 days after operation and 12 deaths (20.7%) in Group E. The 3-year survival rate of Groups A, B, C, D, and E was 100%, 74%, 21%, 0%, and 35%, respectively. 
Contralateral primary tumors in breast cancer patients in a randomized trial of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy Prophylactic treatment with the anti-estrogen tamoxifen may reduce the risk of breast cancer because estrogens are thought to act as promoters in the pathogenesis of the disease. This article presents results on the incidence of contralateral new primary tumors among 1846 postmenopausal breast cancer patients included in a randomized trial of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy for 2 or 5 years after surgery versus no adjuvant endocrine therapy. The median follow-up was 7 years (range, 3-13 years). There was a significant reduction of contralateral breast cancer in the 931 patients in the tamoxifen group versus that in the 915 control patients (29 versus 47 cases, respectively; P = .03). The cumulative incidence at 10 years in the tamoxifen group and the control group was 5% and 8%, respectively. Analysis of the relative hazard of contralateral tumor over time showed that the benefit with tamoxifen therapy was greatest during the first 1-2 years, but there was a continued risk reduction during the entire follow-up period, i.e., more than 10 years after cessation of treatment. There was no significant difference in the number of contralateral cancers in the patients randomly assigned to 2 or 5 years of treatment, but the 95% confidence interval of the relative hazard was wide. The proportion of estrogen receptor-negative contralateral breast cancers was higher in the tamoxifen group than in the control group. There was no difference, however, between the two groups in recurrence-free survival time from the diagnosis of the contralateral cancer. 
Immunoblastic lymphoma with abundant clear cytoplasm. A comparative study of B- and T-cell types. The morphologic, phenotypic, molecular genetic, and clinical features of 34 cases of clear-cell immunoblastic lymphoma (IBLC) are described. Sixteen cases were of B-cell type (IBLC-B) and 18 cases were of T-cell type (IBLC-T). There were no significant differences in the morphologic characteristics of the neoplastic cells in the two types, although IBLC-B was less likely to be polymorphic than IBLC-T. Interfollicular proliferation, a higher mitotic rate, infiltration by eosinophils, and an increase in capillary-sized blood vessels were also features of IBLC-T, whereas necrosis and fibrosis were more extensive in IBLC-B. Patients with IBLC-B were predominantly female, whereas those with IBLC-T were predominantly male. The mean age was 62 years for those with IBLC-B and 46 years for those with IBLC-T. Patients with IBLC-B usually had lower-stage disease, but there was no significant difference in survival rate between those with IBLC-B and those with IBLC-T. Although most cases of IBLC have been considered to be of peripheral T-cell origin, the authors conclude that IBLC-B is more common than previously considered and that clear-cell morphologic characteristics are not a reliable indicator of T-cell type. 
Improved survival in patients with poor-prognosis malignant melanoma treated with adjuvant levamisole: a phase III study by the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group Five hundred forty-three patients with completely resected malignant melanoma who were considered to have a significant risk of developing recurrent disease were randomized to one of four study groups. One group received levamisole 2.5 mg/kg on 2 consecutive days weekly for 3 years, a second group received bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) for 3 years. A third group alternated 8-week courses of BCG and levamisole for 3 years and a fourth group underwent clinical assessment at the same frequency as the three treatment groups. The median duration of follow-up is 8.5 years. The percentage of reduction in the death rate and the recurrence rate in the treatment groups compared with the control group was calculated using the Cox proportional hazards model and adjusted for age, sex, and stage as covariants. The patients treated with levamisole were estimated to have a 29% reduction in both the death rate (P = .08) and the recurrence rate (P = .09) compared with patients receiving no further treatment. Fifty-five patients discontinued levamisole early because of gastrointestinal intolerance or arthralgia, myalgia, fever, and immune leukopenia. The patients treated with BCG alternating with levamisole experienced a 10% reduction in the death rate and a 6% reduction in the recurrence rate, and the patients treated with BCG alone experienced a 4% reduction in the death rate and a 3% increase in the recurrence rate compared with the control group. The degree of improvement experienced by the patients that were treated by levamisole is of sufficient magnitude to warrant further investigation of this dose of levamisole as adjuvant treatment in patients with melanoma. 
Glomerular hypertension in renovascular hypertensive patients. Split intrarenal hemodynamics in stenotic and contralateral kidneys of unilateral renovascular hypertension (RVH) were estimated by Gomez's formulae. Forty patients with essential hypertension and 40 patients with RVH were studied. Split para-amino hippurate and inulin clearances were measured by ureteral catheterization as indexes for effective renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rates, allowing the estimation of intrarenal hemodynamics such as afferent arteriolar resistance (RA), efferent arteriolar resistance (RE) and glomerular hydrostatic pressure (PG) in each kidney. Normal values of intrarenal hemodynamic parameters were obtained in 24 normotensive subjects without ureteral catheterization, assuming each kidney had the half function of both kidneys. Systemic mean arterial pressure did not differ between essential and renovascular hypertension (141 +/- 3 vs. 148 +/- 3 mm Hg). Effective renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rates were decreased in the stenotic kidney of RVH (98 +/- 8, 24 +/- 2 ml/min/m2), while increased in the contralateral kidney (195 +/- 11, 48 +/- 2), compared with the right kidney of essential hypertension (162 +/- 8, 33 +/- 1). Although effective renal plasma flow rate was not different from normal (191 +/- 8), glomerular filtration rate was significantly higher in the contralateral kidney of RVH than in normal (38 +/- 1). RA was elevated due to the stenotic lesion in the stenotic kidney (28,500 +/- 1,900 dyns.sec.cm-5), while the elevation in the contralateral kidney (10,800 +/- 600) was less than in the right kidney of essential hypertension (14,900 +/- 1,200). RE (5,800 +/- 300) in both kidneys of RVH was higher than in the right kidney of essential hypertension (4,500 +/- 200). 
Small intestinal lesion resembling graft-vs-host disease. A case report in immunodeficiency and review of the literature. We report graft-vs-host disease-like histology in a small intestinal biopsy specimen that was obtained from a patient with common variable immunodeficiency and related T-cell defect. We include findings from immunohistochemical studies and follow-up information. Review of the literature yielded only a small number of histologically documented cases of this lesion without previous bone marrow transplantation. Awareness of this clinicopathologic entity is important in the interpretation of gastrointestinal biopsy specimens. 
Phase I study of weekly intravenous infusions of CPT-11, a new derivative of camptothecin, in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. 7-Ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxy-camptothecin (CPT-11) is a novel camptothecin derivative that has been selected for clinical evaluation because of its broad spectrum of antitumor activity in animal models and its unique inhibitory effects on mammalian DNA topoisomerase I. Seventeen patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer were treated with CPT-11 at weekly dose levels ranging from 50 to 150 mg/m2. At least three weekly doses were given to all patients except four, and a total of 74 weekly doses were given to the 17 patients. The dose-limiting toxic effects were myelosuppression (predominantly leukopenia) and unpredictable diarrhea. Gastrointestinal toxic effects were severe and not well controlled by standard therapy in some patients. Interpatient variability of toxic effects was substantial (including two deaths) and did not correlate with the pharmacokinetic parameters of CPT-11 and 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin, its major metabolite. Two previously untreated patients, who received doses of 100 and 125 mg/m2, had partial responses lasting 3.2 and 4.0 months, respectively. The maximum tolerated dose on this schedule was 100 mg/m2, which we also recommend as a starting dose for phase II studies. This schedule appears to allow a CPT-11 dose intensity which is double the dose intensity possible on a once-a-month schedule. However, careful supervision to assess gastrointestinal toxic effects and myelosuppression is indispensable because of wide individual differences in drug tolerance. 
Increased survival, limb preservation, and prognostic factors for osteosarcoma. Preoperative intraarterial (IA) cisplatin (CDP) was administered to 92 patients with nonmetastatic osteosarcoma. The ages of the patients ranged from 4 to 28 years. Sixty-four patients (70%) received 2 or 3 preoperative courses and 28 (30%) received 4 or more. Sixty-two specimens were available for pathologic examination to assess the degree of tumor necrosis. More than 90% tumor destruction was observed in 16 of 42 patients (38%) who received 1 to 3 preoperative courses as opposed to 17 of 20 (85%) who received 4 or more courses. Patients who received 4 or more courses had a 2-fold probability of achieving more than 90% tumor necrosis, and 68% underwent conservative surgery. Of those who received 3 or less courses, 23% underwent conservative surgery. Postoperatively, patients were treated with intravenous (IV) CDP alternating with doxorubicin (ADR) (Adriamycin, Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH). Pulmonary metastases developed in 36 patients, bone metastases in 2, and local recurrence in 6. Two patients died of cardiac failure without evidence of disease. Thus, 46 patients (50%) were continuously free of disease 18 to 78 months after diagnosis. Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that male sex, low grade preoperative chemotherapy-induced necrosis, and nonosteoblastic histologic condition were prognostic factors predictive of recurrence, while male sex and large tumor size were prognostic factors predictive of death. These results are comparable with those reported by other centers and are superior to our previous experiences that yielded survival rates of 5% to 10%. A substantial number of patients also had the opportunity to achieve tumor removal with conservative surgery. 
Mesenchymoma of the chest wall in children. Benign chest wall mesenchymoma in children is an extremely rare disease. Only 20 patients have been reported in the world literature. We report a chest wall mesenchymoma in a 2-year-old boy who was admitted to the hospital after a routine chest roentgenogram showed a mass in the right upper chest wall. The patient was asymptomatic. Clinical examination was negative, but chest roentgenograms and computed tomography showed a mass in the right upper chest wall involving the third rib. A 2 x 2 x 1.5-cm tumor was excised totally with partial resection of the third rib. The histology of the lesion corresponded to a mesenchymoma (hamartoma) of the chest wall. Our patient has been followed up for 8 years without recurrence. 
Management of chiasmal and hypothalamic gliomas of infancy and childhood with chemotherapy. Between March, 1983, and February, 1989, 19 infants or children with chiasmal/hypothalamic gliomas were treated with chemotherapy after either surgical or radiological diagnosis. The patients ranged in age from 15 weeks to 15.6 years (median 3.2 years) at the start of therapy. Twelve patients were treated immediately after diagnosis because of progressive symptoms, and seven received chemotherapy after either radiographic progression or clinical deterioration, including progressive visual loss or intracranial hypertension. Based on biopsy results, seven of these tumors were classified as juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas, two as astrocytomas, two as highly anaplastic astrocytomas, and one as a subependymal giant-cell astrocytoma. There was associated neurofibromatosis in four patients. The two initial patients were treated with either actinomycin D and vincristine or 5-fluorouracil, hydroxyurea, and 6-thioguanine. The remaining patients received nitrosourea-based therapy; 15 evaluable patients were treated with a five-drug regimen that included 6-thioguanine, procarbazine, dibromodulcitol, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU), and vincristine and one received 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and 5-fluorouracil. Fifteen of the 18 evaluable patients initially managed with chemotherapy either responded to therapy or their condition stabilized. Median time to tumor progression has not been reached at a median follow-up period of 79 weeks (range 6.6 to 303 weeks), and no tumor-related death has occurred with a median follow-up period of 79 weeks (range 18 to 322 weeks) from the initiation of therapy. The four patients who failed therapy or whose disease progressed after chemotherapy were treated satisfactorily with radiation therapy. Initial improvement or stabilization of visual function was obtained in 16 patients. Endocrine function remained stable in all patients during treatment, although three patients required pharmacological treatment for endocrinopathy that was present at diagnosis. These preliminary results suggest that nitrosourea-based cytotoxic regimens are useful for the initial treatment of children with chiasmal/hypothalamic gliomas, and allow potentially harmful radiation therapy to be deferred until progression of disease. 
Transient prolonged postischemic ventricular dilatation documented by 99mTc MIBI scan. We describe two cases of prolonged postischemic ventricular dilatation during myocardial scintigraphy with 99mTc MIBI, the new perfusion tracer that has only negligible redistribution. Ventricular dilatation, caused by true chamber dilatation and/or subendocardial ischemia, was still present over two hours after the induced ischemic episode, suggesting a prolonged duration of such a commonly believed fleeting scintigraphic finding. 
A randomized clinical study of a calcium-entry blocker (lidoflazine) in the treatment of comatose survivors of cardiac arrest. Brain Resuscitation Clinical Trial II Study Group BACKGROUND. Abnormalities of cellular calcium homeostasis have been implicated in the pathophysiology of postischemic encephalopathy. Calcium-entry-blocking drugs inhibit the influx of calcium into cells and have been shown to mitigate postischemic encephalopathy in animal models. METHODS. Five hundred twenty patients with cardiac arrest who remained comatose after the restoration of spontaneous circulation were randomly assigned to receive three doses of lidoflazine, an experimental calcium-entry blocker, or a placebo and were followed for six months. Four patients were lost to follow-up. Treated patients received an intravenous loading dose (1 mg per kilogram of body weight) of lidoflazine and two subsequent doses (0.25 mg per kilogram) 8 and 16 hours after resuscitation. The investigators were blinded to treatment assignment. RESULTS. There was no statistically significant difference between the lidoflazine group (n = 259) and the placebo group (n = 257) in the proportion of patients who died during the six-month follow-up (82 vs. 83 percent), who survived with good cerebral recovery (15 vs. 13 percent), or who survived with severe neurologic deficit (1.2 vs. 1.9 percent). Analysis of the best level of recovery achieved at any time during follow-up also did not show a difference between the treatment groups: 24 percent of those given lidoflazine and 23 percent of those given placebo recovered good cerebral function (normal or only moderately disabled cerebral performance) at some time. CONCLUSIONS. The administration of lidoflazine after cardiac arrest was not found to be beneficial. Our data do not support the routine use of this calcium-entry-blocking drug in comatose survivors of cardiac arrest. 
The ileal neobladder. The ileal neobladder in many respects approximates the theoretically ideal continent urinary diversion. The technique, while more technically demanding than the performance of the standard ileal loop diversion, is not difficult, particularly for surgeons used to performing radical retropubic prostatectomies. The ileal neobladder appears to approximate most closely the optimal bladder substitution. Although currently feasible only in males, future considerations could conceivably involve urologists working with their colleagues in gynecology and colorectal surgery to extend the benefits of bladder substitution using the ileal neobladder to selected patients having cystectomy for associated gynecologic or colorectal malignancies. 
The intranasal ethmoidectomy: an experience with 1,077 procedures. A series of 1,077 intranasal ethmoidectomies (825 with sphenoid sinusotomies) was performed in 600 patients over a 15-year period at The Mount Sinai Medical Center. The technique is a modification of the classical operation originally proposed by Yankauer. The rate of significant complications was 1.1%. A subset of 90 patients underwent 166 procedures and were followed an average of 3.5 years. The patients were analyzed according to whether the disease was focal or diffuse, infectious or polypoid, and whether asthma was present. The surgical success rate was 88% in nonasthmatics, but dropped to 50% in asthmatic patients despite total sphenoethmoidectomy. This underscores the importance of this condition as a biological modifier of surgical prognosis. Accordingly, a system of classification of sinus diseases is proposed based upon disease extent and type and whether asthma is present. 
Conservative treatment of vesicovaginal fistulas by bladder drainage alone. We describe 4 cases of conservative management of vesicovaginal fistulas occurring as a complication of abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy. In all cases treatment involved simple bladder drainage for periods ranging from 19 to 54 days. At follow-up all patients remained dry. Such spontaneous closure of vesicovaginal fistulas following adequate bladder drainage has not been previously reported. 
Effects of early captopril administration on infarct expansion, left ventricular remodeling and exercise capacity after acute myocardial infarction. In a double-blind study, 99 patients (82 men, age range 40 to 75 years) with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were randomly assigned to receive captopril or placebo. Treatment began within 24 hours of admission. Serial echocardiographic measurements of endocardial segment lengths and left ventricular (LV) volumes, and ejection fractions were obtained. The 2 groups were matched at baseline except for an excess of previous AMI in the placebo group (13 of 50 vs 2 of 49 patients, p = 0.002). The increase in anterior segment length, from baseline to 2 months, was significantly less in the captopril than in the placebo group (2.8 +/- 1.6 vs 10.4 +/- 2.4mm, 95% confidence interval [CI] -13.5 to -1.7, p = 0.01). The increase in posterior segment length was also less in the captopril group, but the difference was not significant (3.2 +/- 1.2 vs 7.0 +/- 1.8mm, 95% CI -8.0 to 0.5, p = 0.08). Fewer patients in the captopril group demonstrated increases in segment length greater than 2 standard deviations of the measurement error (14 of 70 [20%] vs 29 of 72 [40%] patients, p = 0.009). In patients with anterior AMI, the infarct-containing anterior segment length increased by 4.5 +/- 2.3 mm in the captopril versus 12.4 +/- 3.1 mm in the placebo group (95% CI -15.7 to -0.2, p = 0.046), and fewer patients in the captopril group demonstrated infarct expansion (6 of 20 [30%] vs 13 of 21 [62%] patients, p = 0.04). 
How AIDS forces reappraisal of hepatitis B virus control in sub-Saharan Africa For developing countries the cost-benefit of vaccination in the control of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is great since the acute infection is generally subclinical and the benefit is the prevention of small numbers of cases of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Since the pattern of HBV infection in Africa is such that, compared with south-east Asia, infection occurs later in childhood and spread is horizontal rather than vertical, investigation of the method of spread of HBV may result in a means of control other than by vaccination. In the meantime, because of the overlap in the means by which HBV and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are spread, it could be worthwhile taking advantage of existing AIDS prevention programmes to educate people about how to avoid both HBV and HIV infections. 
Pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis. The presentation of a patient with multiple pulmonary nodules with or without cavitation and often with signs of a multisystemic vasculitis should suggest one of the pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis syndromes. The five conditions traditionally considered together in the category of pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis differ widely in their cause and pathogenesis and are more appropriately considered as variants or relatives of other processes. The radiologic features of this group of diseases, however, are similar, and it is useful to still consider them together. Table 1 summarizes the radiologic features of these conditions. 
Splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity and circulating catecholamines in the hyperthermic rat. The mechanisms responsible for the initial rise in splanchnic vascular resistance with environmental heating are controversial, and those responsible for the subsequent fall in splanchnic resistance in the severely hyperthermic animal are unknown. Thus we examined the effect of environmental heating on plasma catecholamine concentration, splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (SNA), and select blood chemistries. In one study, 25 male Sprague-Dawley rats (270-300 g) were assigned to one of five groups on the basis of their core temperature (Tc, 37, 39, 41, 43, or 44 degrees C) at death. Heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and Tc were monitored during heat stress under alpha-chloralose anesthesia (12.5 mg.ml-1.h-1). At each predetermined Tc, an aortic blood sample was drawn and analyzed for mean plasma concentration of norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (E), Na+, K+, and lactate. From 41 to 43 degrees C, NE and E rose significantly, and the animals became hyperkalemic and lactacidemic. In a separate study, we quantitated SNA from the greater splanchnic nerve during heat exposure of artificially respired animals anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium (50 mg/kg). MAP, splanchnic SNA, and Tc were recorded. Tc was elevated from 37.0 +/- 0.12 to 41.3 +/- 0.18 degrees C in 70 min by increase of ambient temperature to 38 degrees C in an environmental chamber. Splanchnic SNA was 54 +/- 8 spikes/s at a Tc of 37 degrees C and increased significantly as Tc exceeded 39 degrees C (P less than 0.05). 
Hemodynamic and neurohormonal effects of clonidine in patients with preganglionic and postganglionic sympathetic lesions. Evidence for a central sympatholytic action. BACKGROUND. Clonidine, a partial presynaptic and postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptor agonist, has been shown to lower blood pressure in normal subjects but not in tetraplegics; however, the mechanisms of this action have not been elucidated. METHODS AND RESULTS. The hemodynamic and hormonal basis of the hypotensive action of clonidine was investigated in tetraplegics with complete cervical spinal cord transection and preganglionic sympathetic denervation, in patients with unilateral brachial plexus injury and postganglionic sympathetic denervation, and in normal subjects. In normal subjects, the fall in blood pressure after clonidine infusion was accompanied by a reduction in cardiac output that was predominantly due to a fall in stroke volume and in heart rate. The lack of fall in blood pressure, cardiac output, and stroke volume in tetraplegics indicates that these effects are exerted at a supraspinal level and require intact descending sympathetic pathways. After clonidine infusion, digital skin vasodilatation occurred in normal subjects, in the innervated but not the denervated limb of patients with unilateral brachial plexus injury, and in tetraplegics, indicating that this response is due to the central sympatholytic effect of clonidine. Plasma norepinephrine was much lower in tetraplegics compared with normal subjects, and after clonidine infusion, it fell substantially in normal subjects alone. Plasma renin activity did not change. Bladder stimulation in tetraplegics resulted in a rise in blood pressure and vasoconstriction in digital skin vessels. The inability of clonidine to significantly reduce or abolish the pressor and digital vasoconstrictor responses after bladder stimulation in tetraplegics indicates that clonidine does not exert a major effect on spinal preganglionic neurons or peripheral presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors. CONCLUSIONS. Therefore, clonidine is a suitable drug for use in analyzing the central supraspinal levels of control in varying circulatory disorders, such as hypertension and postural hypotension. 
Morbidity of modified pelvic lymphadenectomy and radiotherapy for prostatic cancer. The records of 63 patients treated by pelvic lymphadenectomy and radiotherapy at the University of Tennessee, Memphis, Baptist Memorial Hospital of Memphis, and the Memphis Veterans Affairs Hospital were reviewed. Of those patients, 45 received external beam radiation therapy to the prostate while 16 were treated by Iodine-125 implantation. Two patients had only staging lymphadenectomy. The incidence of postoperative and late complications were analyzed. 
Application of smooth Teflon clip to inferior vena cava during radical cystectomy to prevent postoperative pulmonary embolism. Between 1976-1986, a smooth Teflon clip was applied to the inferior vena cava of 56 patients who underwent radical cystectomy for bladder cancer. The purpose of the clip is to narrow the lumen of the inferior vena cava so that large emboli will be trapped and thus prevented from reaching the lungs. These 56 patients were compared with a group of 26 historical controls who underwent radical cystectomy without application of such a clip between 1967-1976. One patient (1.8%) whose vena cava was clipped had a pulmonary embolus which was fatal. Four (15.4%) of the 26 control patients had postoperative pulmonary emboli, the embolic event being fatal in 3 (11.5%). Application of the smooth Teflon clip to the inferior vena cava significantly lessens the incidence of pulmonary embolism following radical cystectomy. 
Paul Broca and the first craniotomy based on cerebral localization. Paul Broca (1824-1880) was a well-known French surgeon-anthropologist-neurologist. Best known for his work on cerebral cortical localization and speech mechanisms, Broca also carefully worked out skull and scalp localization for underlying cortical regions. In 1871, Broca treated a man who had sustained a scalp laceration from a blow to the head without loss of consciousness or skull fracture. The patient exhibited a nonfluent aphasia about 1 month after injury and became progressively obtunded and eventually comatose. Suspecting an intracranial abscess, Broca trephined at the region of the left third frontal convolution and drained an epidural abscess. The patient improved transiently but died a few days later. Autopsy showed a left-sided, predominantly frontal purulent meningoencephalitis. Broca's other neurosurgical contributions included various surgical cases, methods for scalp localization of the cerebral convolutions, extensive studies of skull and brain abnormalities, thermoencephalography, and the stimulation of younger surgical colleagues and neurologists to make practical use of cerebral localization. 
Coronary restenosis: what have we learned from angiography? Coronary restenosis remains a major problem for interventional cardiology not only by virtue of its frequency, but also because of the current inability to prevent it. Symptomatic status and non-invasive evaluation have been used to study restenosis, but both lack specificity and sensitivity, particularly in patients with multivessel disease. Angiography remains the reference standard. Several arbitrary definitions have been used, some related to visual estimates of coronary stenosis and others to quantitative angiographic techniques. In another approach, linear modeling is used to assess minimal luminal diameter of lesions on restudy. Although angiographic studies have been essential in the study of restenosis, questions concerning the underlying mechanism and pathophysiology remain. The development of animal models that closely resemble human restenosis should allow evaluation of pathophysiologic mechanisms and development of new strategies to prevent the problem. 
Mortality due to shigellosis: community and hospital data. Almost all fatal cases of shigellosis occur in developing countries, and data on mortality are generally compiled from three sources: investigations of epidemics caused by Shigella dysenteriae type 1, surveillance of endemic diarrheal disease, and reports from hospitals. Attack rates during epidemics of dysentery due to infection with S. dysenteriae type 1 have ranged from 1% to 33%, and case-fatality rates have ranged from 1% to 7%. In Matlab, a rural district in Bangladesh, most diarrhea-related deaths and approximately 25% of all deaths among children 1 through 4 years of age are attributable to dysentery. In 1984, an epidemic of dysentery was associated with a 42% increase in the death rate in that age group. At the Dhaka Treatment Centre of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, the fatality rate for 970 inpatients with shigellosis was 11% in 1988, with most deaths occurring among malnourished children who were infected with Shigella flexneri. Control of mortality from shigellosis will require prevention of epidemic S. dysenteriae type 1 disease and endemic S. flexneri infections in children who live in countries with a high prevalence of malnutrition. 
Diclofenac delays healing of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions. Double-blind, placebo-controlled endoscopic study in healthy volunteers. The effects of the water-soluble and delayed-release formulations of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, diclofenac, on the healing of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions were compared in a double-blind, double cross-over, placebo-controlled endoscopic study conducted in 14 healthy volunteers. Severe endoscopic lesions (petechiae, erosions, ulcers, and esophageal candidiasis) were found only in the group taking the soluble formulation of diclofenac (P less than 0.05 vs placebo). The endoscopic healing of biopsies at one week was delayed by both preparations in comparison to placebo (P less than 0.05 vs placebo). Neither formulation produced significantly more histological inflammation or minor endoscopic lesions (erythema, red striae) than placebo. Both formulations were equally well tolerated and produced no more symptoms than placebo. This study suggests that soluble diclofenac acts topically to delay gastroduodenal healing and produce gastroduodenal injury; it thus provides a model for future studies of the production, perpetuation, and healing of peptic lesions. 
Auriculotemporal syndrome following the preauricular approach to temporomandibular joint surgery. Forty-seven joints in 28 patients were examined 4 months to 10 years after temporomandibular joint (TMJ) surgery via a modified preauricular approach. Many patients had undergone multiple procedures. None of the patients had any subjective or objective evidence of auriculotemporal syndrome (ATS), although patients in previous studies with more extensive incisions have demonstrated ATS. It was concluded that ATS is an unlikely complication following TMJ surgery. A small incision without an oblique superior extension may further reduce the risk. 
Left ventricular hypertrophy: impact of calcium channel blocker therapy. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) of the concentric type is the classic cardiac adaptation to sustained arterial hypertension. Data from the Framingham cohort have shown that patients with LVH have a severalfold higher risk of sudden death, acute myocardial infarction, and other cardiovascular morbidity than those with normal hearts. Common sequelae of LVH are ventricular ectopy, impaired ventricular contractility, myocardial ischemia, and decreased left ventricular filling. The benefits of antihypertensive therapy should not be limited to lowering arterial pressure, but should extend to preventing or reducing target organ damage. A variety of antihypertensive agents, such as calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antiadrenergic drugs, and, to a lesser extent, beta blockers, have been shown to reduce LVH and to improve left ventricular filling. We have shown that calcium channel blockers diminish ventricular ectopy in parallel with the reduction of LVH, whereas antihypertensive therapy with diuretics neither reduced LVH nor suppressed ventricular ectopy, although it lowered arterial pressure to a similar extent. Whether or not these cardiac changes with antihypertensive therapies will improve cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with LVH remains to be documented. 
Intrarenal pancreatic cyst. A case report of intrarenal true cyst of the pancreas is presented. The patient presented with flank pain. Her diabetes and hypertension were well-controlled. The cause of the pain was presumed to be a cystic renal mass, which proved to be of pancreatic origin only after the pathologic confirmation from the nephrectomy specimen. 
Preeclampsia as the great impostor. In contrast with a generation ago when preeclampsia was misdiagnosed as medical or surgical disease unrelated to pregnancy, today's diagnostic errors are those that consider surgical and medical problems as either pregnancy-induced hypertension or as the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome. Eleven case histories are presented of significant medical or surgical problems that were initially diagnosed as hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome or pregnancy-induced hypertension. The incorrect diagnosis of medical-surgical cases during pregnancy often meant that appropriate therapy was delayed and that the rate of iatrogenic prematurity was increased. 
Artificially induced ventricular fibrillation in the management of through-and-through penetrating wounds of the aortic arch: a case report. Case report of a 28-year-old woman in whom a through-and-through knife injury of the aortic arch is presented. The hemorrhage could not be brought under control by conventional means and was handled by artificially induced temporary electric fibrillation of the heart, direct suture, and immediate defibrillation. The patient made an uneventful recovery. 
Profound hypothermia (less than 10 degrees C) compared with deep hypothermia (15 degrees C) improves neurologic outcome in dogs after two hours' circulatory arrest induced to enable resuscitative surgery. Deaths from uncontrollable hemorrhage might be prevented by arresting the circulation under protective hypothermia to allow resuscitative surgery to repair these injuries in a bloodless field. We have shown previously that in hemorrhagic shock, circulatory arrest of 60 minutes under deep hypothermia (tympanic membrane temperature, Ttm = 15 degrees C) was the maximum duration of arrest that allowed normal brain recovery. We hypothesize that profound cerebral hypothermia (Ttm less than 10 degrees C) could extend the duration of safe circulatory arrest. In pilot experiments, we found that the cardiopulmonary system did not tolerate arrest at a core (esophageal) temperature (Tes) of less than 10 degrees C. Twenty-two dogs underwent 30-minute hemorrhagic shock (mean arterial pressure 40 mm Hg), rapid cooling by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), blood washout to a hematocrit of less than 10%, and circulatory arrest of 2 hours. In deep hypothermia group 1 (n = 10), Ttm was maintained at 15 degrees C during arrest. In profound hypothermia group 2 (n = 12), during cooling with CPB, the head was immersed in ice water, which decreased Ttm to 4 degrees-7 degrees C. The Tes was 10 degrees C in all dogs during arrest. Reperfusion and rewarming were by CPB for 2 hours. Controlled ventilation was to 24 hours, intensive care to 72 hours. In the 20 dogs that followed protocol, best neurologic deficit scores (0% = normal, 100% = brain death) at 24-72 hours were 23% +/- 19% in group 1 and 12% +/- 8% in group 2 (p = 0.15). Overall performance categories and histologic damage scores were significantly better in group 2 (p = 0.04 and p less than 0.001, respectively). We conclude that profound cerebral hypothermia with CPB plus ice water immersion of the head can extend the brain's tolerance of therapeutic circulatory arrest beyond that achieved with deep hypothermia. 
Dependency of the pulsed Doppler-derived transmitral filling profile on the sampling site. In previous reports that evaluated pulsed Doppler transmitral filling, the sampling site has varied; we examined the effect of the sample volume location on Doppler measurements. Studied were 97 patients: 58 with normal echocardiograms, 20 with mitral regurgitation, and 19 with miscellaneous cardiac diseases. Transmitral filling was recorded at the mitral anulus and at the left atrial and left ventricular (LV) sides of the mitral tips. As the sample volume was moved from the mitral anulus to the LV side, the peak velocity and time-velocity integral of early diastole increased (40.6 +/- 13.8 versus 59.0 +/- 19.0 cm/sec, 5.26 +/- 1.65 versus 8.35 +/- 2.37 cm; p less than 0.001) as did those of late diastole (48.7 +/- 11.5 versus 57.5 +/- 17.0 cm/sec, 3.48 +/- 0.97 versus 4.59 +/- 1.39 cm; p less than 0.001). The late-to-early diastolic peak velocity and time-velocity integral ratios and the late-to-total diastolic time-velocity integral ratio decreased (1.33 +/- 0.51 versus 1.06 +/- 0.41, 0.71 +/- 0.24 versus 0.58 +/- 0.19, 0.40 +/- 0.09 versus 0.36 +/- 0.08; p less than 0.001). The dependency of these indices on the sampling site was in the same degree in all three groups. However, the peak filling rate normalized to mitral stroke volume (4.71 +/- 1.43 versus 4.63 +/- 1.32 l/sec; p = NS) was not influenced by the sample volume location; thus this parameter may be more reliable for assessing LV filling. 
Hemorrhagic cardioembolic stroke: is anticoagulation absolutely contraindicated? Hemorrhagic cerebral embolism should not be considered an absolute contraindication to immediate low-dose systemic anticoagulation. Low levels of anticoagulation may give some protection from recurrent embolism while minimizing the risks of intracranial bleeding. Until further studies are available, these decisions must be made on a case-by-case basis, supported by limited scientific information. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: 111 consecutive cases. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy removes the gallbladder through three or four puncture wounds in the abdominal wall. The technique reduces the recuperative time to full activity, from as long as 4 wk to as little as 3 days, compared with conventional cholecystectomy. We herein present our initial experience with this procedure. In this series of 111 laparoscopic cholecystectomies, there were no mortalities and only one morbidity. Thirty-nine patients (35%) had a history of prior abdominal surgery. Fourteen underwent laparoscopic lysis of adhesions. Intraoperative cholangiograms were performed in 24 patients (21%), demonstrating choledocholithiasis in three. Two of the three patients underwent postoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP); in the other, laparoscopic common bile duct exploration was performed. In each case, the common bile duct (CBD) was completely cleared of stones. Incidental laparoscopic appendectomy was also performed in three patients. The average time for completion of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in cases of chronic cholecystitis was 40 min. If the gallbladder was acutely inflamed, the procedure took a mean of 126 min. This series had a higher percentage of patients (19%) with acute cholecystitis then previously reported; therefore, the 2% conversion rate in this series emphasizes the broad applicability of the technique. The average length of stay in the hospital was 1.4 days, and patients returned to work in about 7 days. 
Liver glutathione and cytochrome P450 activity in experimental infection: study of the relative effects of infectious stress and malnutrition. OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of infection and malnutrition on liver glutathione and cytochrome P450 (P450) in rats. DESIGN: Controlled experimental groups (12 groups). ANIMALS: Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. INTERVENTIONS: Experimental endocarditis, pyelonephritis, or peritonitis were caused. Controls included free-fed rats and sham-operated rats, pair-fed to infected animals. Infection was verified by tissue culture. Rats were killed 3 days (acute infection) or 10 days (chronic infection, except endocarditis) after the induction of infection. RESULTS: Sham rats had lower liver weights, liver/body weight, and liver glutathione values than controls. Infected rats had larger liver weights and liver/body weight ratios and liver glutathione content than shams, and larger liver/body weight ratios than controls (acute infection). Infected rats had lower P450 values than both shams and controls. CONCLUSION: The malnutrition associated with infection caused decreased liver weight and glutathione content. Infection increased the liver weight, and liver glutathione content, but caused severe reduction in liver P450. If the same finding is true in infected patients, it could have consequences for the management of such patients. 
Metsovo lung outside Metsovo. Endemic pleural calcifications in the ophiolite belts of Greece. Endemic PCs and high incidence of malignant mesothelioma from household use of asbestos have been reported in Metsovo in northwestern Greece ("Metsovo lung"). In the present study, we present similar findings in six more areas of Greece. Like Metsovo, all these areas are located within ophiolite belts. Like Metsovo, material similar to "Metsovo whitewash" has been used for various domestic uses. Asbestos fibers (chrysotile, antigorite and tremolite) were found in three of the six areas. Also, in two, MPM has been diagnosed. These findings suggest that "Metsovo lung" occurs in several areas of Greece and has similar etiology and epidemiology. 
Validation of continuous radionuclide left ventricular functioning monitoring in detecting silent myocardial ischemia during balloon angioplasty of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Silent myocardial ischemia has been inferred from transient ST-segment depression during continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. Recently, continuous ambulatory monitoring of left ventricular (LV) function using a radionuclide technique (VEST) has demonstrated episodes of significant silent LV dysfunction in the absence of electrocardiographic changes. To validate the demonstration of silent LV dysfunction with this technique, 12 men were studied during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. A total of 18 left anterior descending coronary artery balloon inflations were performed. Balloon inflations at 8 +/- 2 atm (4 to 10 atm) lasted 70 +/- 16 seconds. Seventeen of 18 inflations were associated with a decrease in LV ejection fraction greater than 0.10. Mean LV ejection fraction decreased from 0.53 +/- 0.08 to 0.28 +/- 0.11 (p less than 0.0001). In contrast, there was pain in only 10 inflations and ST-segment changes in 7. LV dysfunction was associated with a minimal increase in end-diastolic volume (4 +/- 3%, p less than 0.003), and a major increase in relative end-systolic volume (69 +/- 43%, p less than 0.001). These data suggest that continuous monitoring of LV function with the VEST can sensitively detect silent ischemic decreases in LV function occurring during angioplasty, and provide further validation of the use of this technique for detecting silent myocardial ischemia. 
The metabolic bone disease of primary sclerosing cholangitis. The incidence and severity of osteopenic bone disease in primary sclerosing cholangitis is poorly defined. Clinical, biochemical and radiographic assessment and bone mineral density measurements of the lumbar spine were carried out in two groups of patients. Group 1 consisted of 30 patients with advanced primary sclerosing cholangitis; group 2 consisted of 18 patients with newly diagnosed primary sclerosing cholangitis. Only one patient had bone pain. All patients were normocalcemic; two had elevated serum parathormone levels. Fourteen patients (47%) from group 1 but no patients from group 2 had low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels. Mean bone mineral density was significantly reduced in group 1 patients (0.97 +/- 0.04 gm/cm2) compared with age-matched and sex-matched controls (1.25 +/- 0.01 gm/cm2, p less than 0.0001), and in 15 patients (50%) bone mineral density was below the fracture threshold (0.98 gm/cm2). The bone mineral density in group 2 was not significantly different from controls, and no patient was below the fracture threshold. In neither group did bone mineral density correlate with serum bilirubin, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, fecal fat excretion, previous drug therapy or the presence of chronic ulcerative colitis. Histomorphometrical examination of bone from four group 1 patients showed increased bone resorption, reduced bone formation, moderate-to-severe osteopenia and no osteomalacia. In conclusion, severe osteopenic bone disease is common in advanced primary sclerosing cholangitis and, like that seen in other cholestatis diseases, is consistent with osteoporosis. 
Left ventricular performance during propofol or methohexital anesthesia: isotopic and invasive cardiac monitoring. Using gated radionuclide ventriculography and invasive cardiac monitoring, the effects of propofol and methohexital on left ventricular volumes and function were investigated in 22 unpremedicated patients (ASA physical status III, 50-78 yr) with chronic coronary artery disease (NYHA class II-III). Anesthesia was induced with either propofol or methohexital (2 mg/kg), followed by a maintenance infusion of 100 micrograms.kg-1.min-1. Vecuronium (0.05 mg/kg) was administered and ventilation (FIO2, 1.0) was manually controlled (FECO2, 0.04-0.05). Data acquisitions were serially obtained over 15 min. Propofol and methohexital anesthesia caused an average 15% decrease in mean arterial pressure, associated with a 20% decrease in cardiac index without a decrease in systemic vascular resistance index. It is interesting that the determinants of these hemodynamic effects were different. Heart rate did not change during propofol infusion despite the decrease in mean arterial pressure, whereas heart rate increased during methohexital infusion. In the propofol group, the decrease in cardiac index was associated with decreases in indicators of preload (end-diastolic volume and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure), whereas end-systolic volume and global ejection fraction did not change statistically. In the methohexital group, the decrease in cardiac index was associated with a decrease in global ejection fraction and an increase in end-systolic volume, whereas indicators of preload remained unchanged. It is concluded that methohexital reduces left ventricular performance. In contrast, propofol preserves left ventricular performance despite a likely negative inotropic effect. 
Chemical shift artifact: dependence on shape and orientation of the lipid-water interface. On magnetic resonance images, chemical shift artifact (CSA) can be seen at a planar lipid-water interface oriented within the plane of the phase-encoding and section-select directions (ie, perpendicular to the frequency-encoding direction). Phantoms and a clinical case were used to demonstrate that when a lipid-water interface is curvilinear (eg, spherical) or planar but not oriented along the section-select direction, CSA may be absent or diminished. This effect can be seen at interfaces of normal structures (kidneys, bladder) as well as at interfaces with pathologic lesions such as lipid-containing dermoids. Not only is this effect dependent on section thickness, field of view, matrix size, and receiver bandwidth, but it is also strongly dependent on the orientation of the interface with respect to the section-select direction. Knowledge of the factors that can alter CSA is important since it is used to distinguish lipid-containing from nonlipid-containing structures of similar signal intensities. 
Exercise echocardiography as a screening test for coronary artery disease and correlation with coronary arteriography. We evaluated exercise echocardiography as a screening test for coronary artery disease in 228 patients, all of whom underwent subsequent coronary angiography. After an echocardiogram at rest was obtained, each patient performed maximal, symptom-limited, upright treadmill exercise, immediately after which repeat imaging was performed. The exercise echocardiogram was abnormal if any segment failed to become hypercontractile with exercise, and these regional wall motion abnormalities were used to predict the extent and distribution of coronary disease. At subsequent angiography, coronary stenosis was defined as significant if luminal diameter was reduced greater than or equal to 50%. Compared with electrocardiography, exercise echocardiography was more sensitive (97 vs 51%) and specific (64 vs 62%), and had higher positive (90 vs 82%) and negative (87 vs 28%) predictive accuracies. Exercise echocardiography was also highly predictive of the extent (no, 1-, 2- or 3-vessel disease) and distribution (which vessel) of coronary stenoses. It is concluded that exercise echocardiography is an excellent screening test for the presence, extent and distribution of coronary artery disease. 
Potential of parenteral and enteral nutrition in inflammation and immune dysfunction: a new challenge for dietitians [published erratum appears in J Am Diet Assoc 1991 Aug;91(8):913] Advances in the understanding of the interrelationship between immunology and nutrition indicate that immune dysfunction in critically ill patients is linked with nutrient deficiency and abnormal acute-phase response to illness. Immune dysfunction requires special nutrition therapy and metabolic support; immunoregulation by nutrition manipulation may lead to specific immunotherapies for defined groups of patients. The success of dietary strategies must be measured not only by metabolic indexes but also by effects on immune function. The health profession must combat immune dysfunction and inflammation for the sick and frail patients under its care. 
Cerebrovascular events after myocardial infarction: analysis of the GISSI trial. Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Streptochinasi nell'Infarto Miocardico (GISSI). OBJECTIVES--To describe the epidemiology of cerebrovascular events in patients given or not given fibrinolytic treatment and to assess the prognostic implications and risk factors. DESIGN--Case series derived from the GISSI randomised trial. SETTING--176 coronary care units in Italy giving various levels of care. PATIENTS--5860 patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with 1.5 million units of intravenous streptokinase and 5852 patients not given fibrinolytic treatment. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cerebrovascular event, sex, age, blood pressure, history of previous infarct, site of infarction, and Killip class. RESULTS--99 of 11,712 patients (0.84%) had a cerebrovascular event. Older age, worse Killip class, and anterior location of infarction seemed to be risk factors for cerebrovascular events (40/3201 aged 65-75 v 42/7295 aged less than 65, odds ratio 2.18; 9/437 class 3 v 55/8277 class 1, 1.81; and 57/4878 anterior v 24/4013 posterior, 1.96). No significant difference was found in the rate of cerebrovascular events between patients treated with streptokinase and controls (45/5852 (0.92%) streptokinase v 54/5860 (0.77) control). More patients in the streptokinase group than in the control group had cerebrovascular events (especially haemorrhagic strokes) on day 0-1 after randomisation (27 streptokinase v 7, control), although this was balanced by late events in control patients (54 streptokinase v 45 control at one year). The mortality of patients who had a cerebrovascular event was higher than that of those who did not (47% (47/99) v 11.6% (1350/11,613]. CONCLUSIONS--Although the incidence of cerebrovascular events complicating myocardial infarction was low, they increased morbidity and mortality. Treatment with streptokinase did not significantly alter the incidence, but age and poor haemodynamic state were associated with an increased risk. 
Treatment of 813 zygoma-lateral orbital complex fractures. New aspects. A 10-year experience with surgical treatment of 813 zygomalateral orbital complex fractures is reviewed. Regardless of the type or severity of the fracture pattern, concomitant fractures of the orbital floor and rim were approached exclusively through the transconjunctival approach without a lateral canthotomy. The advantages of this approach compared with the subciliary access are the avoidance of a visible scar and markedly reduced incidence of postoperative lower eyelid complications such as ectropion and edema. Implants of lyophilized dura or cartilage and autogenous bone were used to reconstruct orbital floor defects. Malar asymmetry is a frequent complication of zygoma fractures resulting from inadequate three-dimensional reduction. Methods for accurate reduction and stabilization, indications for closed and open reduction, and management of the fractured infraorbital rim are emphasized. The indications for miniplates vs wire ligatures for the infraorbital rim are discussed. Long-term follow up and evaluation of the results with regard to the fracture pattern, complications, maxillary sinus dysfunction, and facial and orbital symmetry are presented. 
Altered cell-mediated immunity to group A haemolytic streptococcal antigens in chronic plaque psoriasis. The proliferative lymphocyte response to sonicated group A, beta-haemolytic streptococci (Strep-A) was measured by thymidine incorporation in 78 patients with psoriasis (guttate, chronic plaque or both). Lymphocytes from 72 of these patients were also cultured with streptokinase/streptodornase (SK/SD), and 20 of the patients with chronic plaque psoriasis were further tested with PPD, Candida albicans and sonicated Streptococcus mutans, a bacterial type not associated clinically with psoriasis. The median stimulation index (SI) of the psoriasis group to the Strep-A preparation was significantly higher than that of a group of 27 non-psoriatic individuals (P less than 0.05). Within this group, only the patients with chronic plaque psoriasis (n = 42) showed a significantly increased proliferative response compared to the non-psoriatic controls (median SI = 123.8 and 31.9, respectively, P less than 0.01). Although the lymphocyte response of the chronic plaque group to SK/SD was also markedly higher than that of the control group, this difference did not reach statistical significance. In addition, these patients did not show significantly increased responses to any of the other antigens tested, including S. mutans. No correlation was observed between the degree of proliferation to Strep-A and disease extent or activity. Similarly, ASO titres, which were raised in 11 out of 23 guttate and three out of nine chronic plaque psoriasis patients tested, did not correlate with the proliferative responses observed. 
Asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses are more prevalent among patients with unsuspected renal artery stenoses. The prevalence of unsuspected renal artery stenosis among patients with peripheral vascular disease has been reported to be as high as 40%, but the prevalence of asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses in these patients is not known. The biplane aortograms of 205 male patients who were military veterans and had aneurysms or occlusive disease were independently reviewed, and medical records were studied to determine associated coronary disease, risk factors, and patient outcome. Fifty-six patients (27%) had a 50% or greater stenosis in the celiac or superior mesenteric artery, and seven patients (3.4%) had significant stenoses in both mesenteric arteries. Patients with celiac or superior mesenteric artery stenoses were older (p = 0.002) and had a higher prevalence of hypertension (p = 0.029) than those without significant mesenteric stenoses. Fifty of the 205 patients had significant renal artery stenoses, and 20 had advanced (greater than 75% diameter loss) renal stenoses. Ten of the 20 patients (50%) with advanced renal stenoses had a concomitant celiac artery stenosis, compared to 40 of the 185 patients (22%) who did not have advanced renal stenoses (p = 0.011). In the present study asymptomatic celiac or superior mesenteric artery stenoses were common among male veterans evaluated for peripheral vascular disease, but the prevalence of significant stenoses in both the celiac and superior mesenteric arteries was low. The prevalence of significant celiac stenosis was higher in patients with advanced (greater than 75%) renal artery stenoses who might be considered for prophylactic renal revascularization. Lateral aortography with evaluation of the celiac artery is always appropriate in these patients. 
Lichen sclerosus and squamous hyperplasia of the vulva. A clinical study of medical treatment. One hundred thirty-eight cases of nonneoplastic epithelial disorders of the vulva treated with medical therapy from 1984 to 1988 were evaluated at the University of Florence, Florence, Italy. The 67 cases of lichen sclerosus were treated with testosterone propionate or progesterone ointment for 32 weeks. The 31 cases of squamous hyperplasia were treated with corticosteroid ointment for 16 weeks. The 40 patients with lichen sclerosus associated with squamous hyperplasia were treated with corticosteroid ointment for 12 weeks and then with testosterone propionate ointment for another 20. To evaluate the efficacy of the treatments, the patients were examined before and after therapy. The evaluation took into account the symptoms and gross appearance of the lesions, which were given a score of 1-3. Considering all the cases evaluated, a total regression of symptoms occurred in 82 patients (59.4%), while a partial regression occurred in 37 (26.8%). Furthermore, there was a total regression of gross changes in 68 cases (49.3%) and a partial one in 43 (31.1%). The best results were obtained with squamous hyperplasia, which lichen sclerosus, alone or associated with squamous hyperplasia, yielded less successful results. 
Results of the Duhamel operation in the treatment of idiopathic megarectum and megacolon. The results of the Duhamel operation in patients with idiopathic megarectum and megacolon have been reviewed. Twenty patients (14 males, six females) underwent the Duhamel operation over a 17-year period for this condition. The mean age at operation was 25 years; the mean age of onset of constipation was 3 years; and the mean follow-up period was 4.5 years. All the resected colons were of enlarged diameter. There was agreement between the preoperative radiographs and the operative specimens with regard to which parts of the rectum and colon were dilated. Subjective feelings of well-being were generally improved by surgery, as was bowel frequency in ten patients. Soiling, straining, abdominal pain and distension were, however, common after operation. Early complications were also common and five patients required further surgery for constipation. The Duhamel operation for megarectum and megacolon is characterized by an improved sense of well-being and improved bowel frequency, but it is associated with the persistence of many symptoms and further surgery is often required. 
Acute transient thrombocytopenia associated with cocaine abuse in pregnancy. A case is described of cocaine-induced severe transient thrombocytopenia associated with a hypertensive crisis at 21 weeks' gestation. Liver function tests and coagulation studies were all within normal ranges. Blood pressure was controlled with hydralazine. This clinical presentation, similar to severe preeclampsia, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute hypertension and low platelet count, especially in early gestations when preeclampsia is relatively rare. Unlike severe preeclampsia, for which active intervention and delivery are usually selected, cocaine-related hypertension-thrombocytopenia, especially in very premature gestations, may warrant conservative management. 
Successful treatment of adult Henoch-Schonlein purpura with factor XIII concentrate. We report the cases of three adult patients with severe abdominal complications of Henoch-Schonlein purpura who had low activity of factor XIII during the acute phase of the disease. In all three cases, abdominal symptoms and purpura immediately responded to heat-treated, placenta-derived factor XIII concentrate. No adverse effects were experienced. Factor XIII concentrate replacement should be considered as the initial treatment for severe abdominal symptoms in adult Henoch-Schonlein purpura associated with a decreased level of factor XIII activity. 
An evaluation of multiple clinical variables for hypoxia during colonoscopy. One hundred consecutive patients undergoing routine colonoscopy were evaluated for changes in arterial oxygen saturation levels. All of the patients were monitored with the Nellcor N-200 pulse oximeter (Nellcor Incorporated) by finger probe and received supplemental oxygen when SaO2 levels decreased below 90 per cent. Forty patients demonstrated a decrease in SaO2 to less than 90 per cent after intravenous sedation but prior to colonoscopy, 14 patients demonstrated a decrease in SaO2 to less than 90 per cent during colonoscopy, and 46 patients maintained SaO2 levels greater than 90 per cent at all times. No statistical differences were found when these three groups were compared for age, body surface area, drug dosage, smoking history and a history of pre-existing hypertension, diabetes, arrhythmias, angina or myocardial infarction and pulmonary disease. These data indicate that all patients undergoing colonoscopy should be placed on supplemental oxygen. We further recommend continuous cardiac and pulse oximetry monitoring when available. 
Recurrent pneumoperitoneum following vaginal insufflation. The authors report a case of a 24-year-old nulligravida woman who presented to the hospital with complaints of severe abdominal pain and radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum. She had two prior nondiagnostic laparotomies for similar complaints and radiographic findings. After a careful sexual history was taken the patient revealed that she had sexual intercourse preceding every similar episode including this one, during which her partner forcefully blew air into her vagina. Pneumoperitoneum associated with vaginal insufflation has been previously reported in two multigravida patients with and without anatomic abnormalities. When pneumoperitoneum is present in the absence of gastrointestinal symptoms or trauma, a meticulous sexual history should be made to avoid unnecessary laparotomies. 
Coronary stenting with a new, radiopaque, balloon-expandable endoprosthesis in pigs. BACKGROUND. Intracoronary stents may be effective when used as "bail-out" devices for acute complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Furthermore, preliminary reports have demonstrated some promising results with stents with regard to the reduction of restenosis. Several stent devices are available for preclinical and clinical evaluation. The use of these stainless-steel stents has been limited by poor visibility during fluoroscopy and thrombogenicity during the first days to weeks after implantation. We therefore investigated the immediate and short-term effects on arterial patency of a new, radiopaque, balloon-expandable coil stent in normal coronary arteries of pigs. METHODS AND RESULTS. In 10 animals, a stent was placed in two of the three epicardial coronary arteries. During the implantation procedure, the animals received heparin; after the procedure, no antithrombotic drugs were administered. After 1 week (five animals and 10 stents) or 4 weeks (five animals and 10 stents), repeat angiography was performed, followed by pressure-fixation of the coronary arteries for light and electron microscopic examination. Angiographic analysis revealed that all stented coronary segments were patent and without signs of intraluminal defects. Scanning electron microscopy showed complete endothelial covering of all stents within 7 days. Light microscopy showed a reduced tunica media locally under the stent wires, which resulted from exerted pressure. The neointima on top of the stent wires measured 56 microns (range, 42-88 microns) after 1 week and 139 microns (range, 84-250 microns) after 4 weeks. CONCLUSIONS. Results from this study show that this radiopaque endoprosthesis can be safely placed in normal coronary arteries of pigs. After 4 weeks, all stents were patent and there was no need for additional antithrombotic treatment, whereas neointimal proliferation was limited. 
Promoter region of the human platelet-derived growth factor A-chain gene. The platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) A- and B-chain genes are widely expressed in mammalian tissues and their homodimeric gene products appear to regulate the autocrine growth of both normal and transformed cells. In this study, we analyzed the 5' flanking sequences of the human PDGF A-chain gene to seek elements important to regulating its transcription. The promoter region was exceptionally G + C-rich and contained a "TATA box" but no "CAAT box." The transcription start site was identified 845 base pairs 5' to the translation initiation site by S1 nuclease mapping and by primer extension. Both in vitro transcription and transient expression of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene linked to the PDGF A-chain 5' flanking sequences established that the putative promoter region was active, and RNase H mapping established that the three characteristic mRNAs (1.9, 2.3, and 2.8 kilobases) used the same transcription start site, which was used in normal endothelial cells and in two human tumor cell lines that express high levels of A-chain transcripts. The results established an exceptionally G + C-rich promoter region and a single transcription start site active for each of the three mRNAs of the PDGF A-chain gene. DNA sites of potential importance in mediating the activation of the PDGF A-chain gene in normal cells and in transformed cell lines expressing high levels of PDGF A chain were identified. 
Operative laparoscopy with the Nd:YAG laser in the treatment of endometriosis and pelvic adhesions. A multicenter, prospective trial was initiated to test the effectiveness and safety of the Nd:YAG laser equipped with artificial sapphire contact tips for the laparoscopic treatment of pelvic pain. Ninety-three women were enrolled in the study, 37 with endometriosis alone, 47 with endometriosis complicated by pelvic adhesions, and 9 women with adhesions alone. In over 90% of adhesions and 96% of endometriotic implants the Nd:YAG laser could be delivered to the site and be used to restore normal anatomy. The exception was deep bowel involvement with endometriosis, which was not treated. The majority of women had marked reduction or resolution of their symptoms for up to 12 months postoperatively. We conclude that the use of the Nd:YAG laser is an appropriate method to laparoscopically treat pelvic pain resulting from endometriosis or pelvic adhesions. 
'Designer drugs'. Treating the damage caused by basement chemists. Use of "designer drugs" has created a new dilemma for physicians. Generally, it is possible to recognize symptoms and signs of intoxication that fit a specific class of substances, such as amphetamine-like effects for the phenylethylamines and opioid effects for the fentanyl analogues. Designer compounds have crossed these boundaries, and toxicology laboratories cannot readily identify them. For now, physicians must rely on clinical presentation and treat accordingly. 
High-energy orbital dislocations: the possibility of traumatic hypertelorbitism. In a 4-year period from 1983 to 1987, 7160 patients with blunt injuries were admitted to the Maryland Institute of Emergency Medical Services Systems Shock Trauma Center. Facial injuries occurred in 10 percent of this population. High-energy fractures (characterized by computed tomography) were seen in approximately 10 percent of these patients. In this high-energy group, five cases of high-energy orbital dislocations, some representing examples of traumatic hypertelorbitism, were observed. They represent 1.5 percent of the 342 midface fractures observed and 4.8 percent of the naso-orbital ethmoid fractures observed (105 patients). One additional patient is described who was seen at the UCLA Medical Center for late repair of the condition. High-energy impacts of the upper midface created fractures of both orbits, zygomas, and nasoethmoidal regions permitting lateral transposition, enlargement, and divergence of the orbits. Interorbital, intercanthal, and interpupillary distances were increased, criteria that confirm the diagnosis of hypertelorbitism. Fifty percent of the patients were bilaterally blind, and one patient sustained unilateral blindness. 
Hemorrhage and intracranial hypertension in combination increase cerebral production of thromboxane A2. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: To determine the effects of reduced cerebral perfusion pressures produced by hemorrhage alone or in combination with intracranial hypertension on thromboxane A2 (TxA2) production, we undertook a randomized study in 38 anesthetized, mongrel dogs. Animals were subjected to 30 mins of hemorrhagic shock with normal (group 1) or increased (group 2) intracranial pressure (ICP). Group 1 animals (n = 22) were hemorrhaged to reduce cerebral perfusion pressure to 40 mm Hg for 30 mins. In group 2 (n = 16), cerebral perfusion pressure was reduced by the combination of less severe hypotension and intracranial hypertension (20 mm Hg). Cerebral and systemic hemodynamic measurements were recorded, including cerebral blood flow (sagittal sinus outflow method); ICP; cerebral perfusion pressure; and arterial and cerebral venous concentrations of TxB2 (double-antibody radioimmunoassay technique), the major metabolite of TxA2. Data were obtained at baseline and at the beginning and end of the 30-min shock period. RESULTS: Hemorrhagic shock significantly (p less than .05) decreased cerebral blood flow in both groups. At the beginning of the shock period, cerebral blood flow was higher in group 1 than in group 2 (p less than .05) and venous-arterial differences in TxB2 increased significantly (p less than .05) in group 2, but not in group 1. At the end of the 30-min shock period, venous-arterial levels of TxB2 remained significantly (p less than .05) higher in group 2. CONCLUSIONS: Increased cerebral production of TxA2 during hypotension accompanied by intracranial hypertension may contribute to the severity of neural damage produced by the combination of head trauma and shock. 
Role of oxygen-derived free radicals in myocardial edema and ischemia in coronary microvascular embolization BACKGROUND. Oxygen-derived free radicals are thought to injure the ischemic heart during coronary microvascular embolization. METHODS AND RESULTS. To test this idea, microspheres (15 microns in diameter) were repetitively administered into the left anterior descending coronary artery to cause microvascular embolization in dogs. Myocardial contractile and metabolic dysfunctions were significantly attenuated after treatments with recombinant human superoxide dismutase, an acyl derivative of ascorbic acid (CV3611, 2-O-octadecylascorbic acid), and xanthine oxidase inhibitor (allopurinol). The free radical scavengers and inhibitor enhanced the coronary hyperemic flow response during embolization, and the total number of microspheres causing maximal embolization was increased by these drugs. When 8-phenyltheophylline was additionally administered with superoxide dismutase, these beneficial effects were abolished, indicating that coronary effects of these drugs may be due to increased release of adenosine during coronary microvascular embolization. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that oxygen radicals worsen the ischemic injury in coronary microembolization. 
Genesis of arrhythmias in the failing heart and therapeutic implications. Between 50 and 70% of patients with heart failure die suddenly and unexpectedly before they have deteriorated to New York Heart Association class IV symptoms. It has long been known that ventricular ectopy predicts sudden cardiac death in coronary heart disease, and this has also been shown in dilated cardiomyopathy. It is less certain whether antiarrhythmic drugs reduce this risk and improve prognosis. Supraventricular arrhythmias frequently develop in heart failure of all causes. They nearly always cause symptoms, and the establishment of atrial fibrillation may mark a permanent deterioration. Except for sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular arrhythmias are often occult. Hypokalemia and digitalis toxicity may have been precipitated by diuretics or interaction with antiarrhythmic drugs. In coronary heart failure, arrhythmias may be related to scar tissue or ischemia, which may also be responsible in dilated cardiomyopathy. Use of inotropes and inodilators may precipitate arrhythmias, whereas drugs that conserve energy or potassium, such as beta blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may prevent them. Since suppression of ventricular arrhythmias has not been shown to prevent sudden death or prolong life in patients with heart failure, it may be that such arrhythmias do not directly presage ventricular fibrillation except in so far as they are markers of a poor prognosis with a risk of sudden death. If so, such arrhythmias are most likely to be suppressed by agents that result in improvement of left ventricular function and, through that, prolongation of life. 
Regimen compliance two years after myocardial infarction. Two-years postinfarction, the effect of a nursing intervention at 30 days postinfarction, and intentions, attitudes, and perceived beliefs of others on regimen compliance of myocardial infarction patients was investigated. The sample was comprised of 51 patients (E = 29, C = 22) who participated in a five-phase study over 2 years. No differences were found between experimental and control groups for regimen compliance to activity, stress, and medication prescriptions. The experimental group was significantly more compliant to the diet prescription than the control group. The control group was significantly more compliant than the experimental group with cessation from smoking. Perceived beliefs of others were predictive of compliance for all regimen prescriptions at 2 years. Attitude was also predictive of compliance with the diet, smoking, and stress regimens. 
High-dose cisplatin with dacarbazine and tamoxifen in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. In an attempt to increase the antitumor effect of cisplatin (50 mg/m2) and dacarbazine (350 mg/m2), each repeated on days 1 to 3 every 4 weeks in patients with metastatic melanoma, tamoxifen was added to the regimen. Before the first course of chemotherapy, the patients received a loading dose of tamoxifen (100 mg orally twice a day for 7 days), followed by a maintenance dose of 10 mg orally twice a day and continued throughout the treatment. Aspirin (325 mg orally every other day) was administered at the same time as the tamoxifen in an attempt to reduce the risk of thromboembolic events. The activity of high-dose cisplatin with dacarbazine and tamoxifen was disappointing. Of 23 evaluable patients, only three responded--an overall response rate of 13% (95% confidence limits, 0% to 27%). These responses consisted of one pathologic complete remission in a patient with nodal metastases, one clinical complete remission in a patient with a very large pelvic mass, and one partial response in another patient with nodal metastases. The duration of responses was 12+, 4, and 4 months, respectively. These data do not support a significant interaction between tamoxifen and cisplatin or dacarbazine. Assuming that tamoxifen is important in the cisplatin, dacarbazine, and carmustine combination, as suggested by others, the most relevant interaction may be between tamoxifen and carmustine. 
Cytologic diagnosis of leukemia and lymphoma. Values and limitations. The value and limitations of the cytologic diagnosis of lymphoma and leukemia using a multiparameter approach, including cytomorphology, immunocytochemistry, and flow cytometry, are discussed. Using these diagnostic modalities, most subtypes of lymphoma and leukemia can be classified accurately. The differential diagnoses of the different disease entities also are presented. 
Left ventricular mass in childhood dilated cardiomyopathy: a possible predictor for selection of patients for cardiac transplantation. To determine the relationship of left ventricular hypertrophy (as assessed by mass) to symptoms and cardiac function in chronic childhood dilated cardiomyopathy, 17 long-term survivors (12 asymptomatic, 5 symptomatic) were studied at a median follow-up of 6.25 years (1.25 to 16.8 years). Left ventricular mass, dimension, wall stress, and contractility (relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and end-systolic wall stress) were assessed by echocardiography. These data were compared to measurements at the onset of disease. At follow-up, mass decreased significantly from the onset in the asymptomatic patients but remained elevated in the symptomatic patients (101 +/- 35 gm/m2 to 54 +/- 12 gm/m2, p = 0.001; 122 +/- 55 gm/m2 to 198 +/- 115 gm/m2, p = 0.23, respectively). Shortening fraction and contractility were both significantly lower in the symptomatic group compared with the asymptomatic group at follow-up (shortening fraction = 21 +/- 7% vs 29 +/- 5%, p = 0.02; contractility = -0.24 +/- 0.14 circ/sec vs -0.05 +/- 0.11 circ/sec, p = 0.01). Follow-up wall stress was slightly higher in symptomatic patients compared with asymptomatic patients. Three symptomatic patients had progressive hypertrophy and either died or required transplantation. Higher left ventricular mass is associated with the presence of symptoms, depressed contractility, and slightly higher wall stress. Persistence or progression of hypertrophy may be a poor prognostic sign in survivors of childhood dilated cardiomyopathy. Measurement of mass may be useful to indicate the necessity for closer follow-up to select patients for cardiac transplantation before hemodynamic decompensation. 
Granulomatous hypersensitivity to Schistosoma mansoni egg antigens in human schistosomiasis. III. In vitro granuloma modulation induced by immune complexes. Granulomatous hypersensitivity to parasite eggs of Schistosoma mansoni is an important factor in the development of morbidity in chronic schistosomiasis. It has been demonstrated previously that the chronic, well-tolerated, intestinal form of schistosomiasis is associated with the establishment and maintenance of a variety of immunoregulatory mechanisms. We have used an in vitro model of granuloma formation for the purpose of studying the regulation of granulomatous hypersensitivity to S. mansoni egg antigens, mediated by immune complexes (IC). Our results show that the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with active schistosome infections, when treated with sera from chronic schistosomiasis patients, were able to induce an inhibitory activity on in vitro granuloma formation. Significant modulation of the in vitro granuloma reaction remained after treatment of PBMCs with isolated IC or manufactured IC with soluble egg antigen (SEA) and purified IgG from pooled chronic schistosomiasis sera. In contrast to granuloma modulation stimulated with whole molecule IgG-SEA IC, the incubation of PBMCs with F(ab')2 IgG-SEA IC did not induce any suppression of the granulomatous hypersensitivity to SEA. It appears in this model system that IC may inhibit the activity of granuloma formation by stimulating macrophages to release suppressive mediators. We have demonstrated this possibility by inhibition of prostaglandin activity using indomethacin. The addition of indomethacin to the granuloma culture significantly reduced in vitro granulomatous hypersensitivity to S. mansoni eggs in patients with chronic intestinal schistosomiasis and do so by inducing macrophages to secrete prostaglandins. 
Cushing's disease and cutaneous alternariosis. Alternaria species are common plant pathogens, but a rare cause of human infection. We present a patient with cutaneous alternariosis that revealed a relapse of an old case of Cushing's disease. Immunosuppression following the excessive glucocorticoid production seemed to contribute to the development of dermatosis. We also present a review of the literature on the association of Cushing's disease and cutaneous alternariosis. Our case is unique because the ketoconazole therapy that we used was successful in the treatment of both diseases. 
Esophagocutaneous fistula after anterior cervical spine surgery and successful treatment using a sternocleidomastoid muscle flap. A case report. An esophagocutaneous fistula following anterior cervical fusion is rare. A 61-year-old man had cervical myelopathy because of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the cervical spine. Anterior decompression of the cervical spine and anterior fusion with strut bone grafting were performed. A second anterior fusion was done because the graft was dislodged after the patient fell out of bed one month after surgery. An esophagocutaneous fistula occurred three months after the second anterior surgery. One of the causes of this esophagocutaneous fistula was considered to be a pressure necrosis of the esophagus because of to projection of the bone graft. Conservative treatment, which consisted of wound drainage and intravenous administration of antibiotics, was tried but was unsuccessful. A good result was achieved by cancellous bone grafting, closure of the esophageal fistula, and transposition of a sternocleidomastoid muscle flap to the interspace between the esophagus and the cervical spine. 
Diazepam binding inhibitor and its processing products stimulate mitochondrial steroid biosynthesis via an interaction with mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptors. A recognition site for benzodiazepines structurally different from that linked to various gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor subtypes is located on the outer mitochondrial membranes of steroidogenic cells. This protein has been signified to be important in the regulation of steroid biosynthesis. Because of its location it is designated herein as the mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (MBR). A putative endogenous ligand for MBR is the peptide diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI), previously shown to displace drugs from MBR and to be expressed and stored in steroidogenic cells rich in MBR. The two model systems used to study steroidogenic regulation by DBI were the Y-1 adrenocortical and MA-10 Leydig cell lines previously shown to be applicable in studies of mitochondrial steroidogenesis. Both cell lines contain DBI as well as DBI processing products, including the DBI fragments that on reverse phase HPLC coelute with the naturally occurring triakontatetraneuropeptide [TTN; DBI-(17-50)] and octadecaneuropeptide [DBI-(33-50)]. When DBI purified from rat brain was added to mitochondria prepared from Y-1 and MA-10 cell lines, it increased the rates of pregnenolone formation in a dose-related manner. In both cell lines, maximal stimulation (3-fold) of mitochondrial steroidogenesis was obtained with 0.33 microM DBI, with an EC50 of approximately 0.1 microM. However, DBI concentrations higher than 1 microM caused a smaller increase in pregnenolone formation. Flunitrazepam, a benzodiazepine that binds with high nanomolar affinity to MBR, was recently shown to act as an antagonist of ACTH and LH/hCG-induced steroidogenesis and was found in the present studies to inhibit DBI-stimulated mitochondrial steroidogenesis. During the incubation with mitochondria, DBI was partially processed to different peptide fragments, including octadecaneuropeptide and TTN. To determine whether DBI processing products influence mitochondrial steroid biosynthesis, several DBI fragments and other peptides structurally unrelated to DBI were tested. Among these, only TTN stimulated mitochondrial steroid synthesis in a dose-dependent manner similar to DBI. 
Use of centrally acting sympatholytic agents in the management of hypertension. Considerable evidence suggests that hyperactivity of the sympathetic nervous system is implicated not only in the pathogenesis of essential hypertension but also in several blood pressure-independent complications of essential hypertension. Even with the advent of newer antihypertensive agents, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium antagonists, the centrally acting sympatholytics (alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists) remain a valuable group of medications for the management of hypertension of all grades of severity. Their advantages include efficacy; rarity of contraindication; absence of most metabolic and serious side effects; favorable effects on systemic hemodynamics; lack of true tolerance and infrequency of volume expansion-related pseudotolerance; suitability in the elderly, in isolated systolic hypertension, and in patients with various concomitant conditions, such as diabetes mellitus; ability to reverse left ventricular hypertrophy; and relative low cost. The long duration of action of guanfacine hydrochloride, the most recently marketed agent, and of the transdermal formulation of clonidine is an especially commendable feature. The principal disadvantages of this class of medications are an overlap between the therapeutic dosage and that producing sedation and dry mouth and the potential to cause the discontinuation syndrome and sexual dysfunction. 
Prevention of neural tube defects: results of the Medical Research Council Vitamin Study. MRC Vitamin Study Research Group. A randomised double-blind prevention trial with a factorial design was conducted at 33 centres in seven countries to determine whether supplementation with folic acid (one of the vitamins in the B group) or a mixture of seven other vitamins (A,D,B1,B2,B6,C and nicotinamide) around the time of conception can prevent neural tube defects (anencephaly, spina bifida, encephalocele). A total of 1817 women at high risk of having a pregnancy with a neural tube defect, because of a previous affected pregnancy, were allocated at random to one of four groups--namely, folic acid, other vitamins, both, or neither. 1195 had a completed pregnancy in which the fetus or infant was known to have or not have a neural tube defect; 27 of these had a known neural tube defect, 6 in the folic acid groups and 21 in the two other groups, a 72% protective effect (relative risk 0.28, 95% confidence interval 0.12-0.71). The other vitamins showed no significant protective effect (relative risk 0.80, 95% Cl 0.32-1.72). There was no demonstrable harm from the folic acid supplementation, though the ability of the study to detect rare or slight adverse effects was limited. Folic acid supplementation starting before pregnancy can now be firmly recommended for all women who have had an affected pregnancy, and public health measures should be taken to ensure that the diet of all women who may bear children contains an adequate amount of folic acid. 
Epitope map of neurofilament protein domains in cortical and peripheral nervous system Lewy bodies. A subset of demented elderly patients exhibit large numbers of cortical intraneuronal inclusions similar to the neurofilament (NF)-rich Lewy bodies (LB) found in pigmented subcortical neurons of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Because these cortical inclusions may contribute to the emergence of cognitive impairments in afflicted individuals, the authors mapped the distribution of NF epitopes in these so-called cortical LBs. This was done using ethanol-fixed tissues and a large library of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) with well-characterized binding specificities to various regions of each NF triplet protein. Cortical LBs were examined by light, confocal, and electron microscopy, and they were compared with the subcortical LBs of PD and LBs in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Monoclonal antibodies specific for the rod regions of each of the three NF subunits, or for phosphate-dependent and independent antigenic sites in the tail region of the high- (NF-H) and middle- (NF-M) molecular weight (Mr) NF subunits as well as other MAbs to the extreme COOH terminus of NF-L and NF-M or the head region of NF-M labeled a variable number of cortical LBs. Remarkably one of these anti-NF MAbs, RMO32, which recognized a phosphorylated epitope in the tail region of NF-M, immunolabeled nearly all cortical LBs, whereas each of the other anti-NF MAbs never labeled more than 10% of ubiquitin- or RMO32-positive cortical LBs. Further LBs in the PNS resembled those in the central nervous system (CNS) in their immunologic properties, and LBs in both sites were dominated by filamentous aggregates at the ultrastructural level. These findings suggest that NF proteins are profoundly altered during their incorporation into cortical and PNS LBs. Further the authors here identified immunologic and ultrastructural properties common to cortical LBs, PNS LBs, and classic substantia nigra LBs in PD. The accumulation of filamentous, perikaryal inclusions rich in NF proteins at diverse sites in the CNS and PNS of patients with a variety of neurodegenerative disorders suggests a widespread disruption of NF metabolism or transport. 
Preventing fetal damage from sexually transmitted diseases. The STDs threaten the reproductive health of women in many ways, ranging from premature births through congenital infections and death. An understanding of the natural history of these diseases permits timely interventions which can mitigate the perinatal damage caused by these infections substantially. Ideally, primary prevention or safer sex will be adopted by sexually active women, thereby reducing the morbidity not only for their offspring but for themselves as well. Antiviral therapy is not yet available for minimizing any hazard of fetal exposure to HPV, HSV, HIV, and hepatitis B viral infections. Early antibiotic therapy should reduce the risk of congenital syphilis and any perinatal hazards associated with chlamydial and gonococcal infections. 
Pharmacology of antimigraine drugs. The drugs used in migraine therapy can be divided into two groups: agents that abort an established migraine attack and agents used prophylactically to reduce the number of migraine attacks. Both groups have drugs that are specific for migrainous headaches and that are non-specific, and are used to treat the accompanying headache (analgesics), vomiting (anti-emetics), anxiety (sedatives and anxiolytics), or depression (antidepressants). The main drugs with specific action on migraine include ergot alkaloids (ergotamine, dihydroergotamine), agonists (sumatriptan) or partial agonists (methysergide) at a specific subtype of 5-HT1-like receptors, beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (propranolol, metoprolol), calcium antagonists (flunarizine) and anti-inflammatory agents (indomethacin). The pharmacological basis of therapeutic action of several of these drugs is not well understood. In the case of the ergot alkaloids and 5-HT1-like receptor agonists, however, it is likely that the antimigraine effect is related to the potent and rather selective constriction of the large arteries and arteriovenous anastomoses in the scalp and dural regions. In addition, these drugs inhibit plasma extravasation into the dura in response to trigeminal ganglion stimulation, but it is possible that this effect is related to the selective vasoconstriction in the extracerebral vascular bed. The selectivity of the pharmacological effects of these antimigraine drugs (constriction of the extracerebral arteries and arteriovenous anastomoses, poor penetration into the central nervous system and the absence of an antinociceptive effect even after intrathecal administration) strongly suggests that excessive dilatation in the extracerebral cranial vasculature, probably initiated by a neuronal event, is an integral part of the pathophysiology of migraine. 
Perivalvular extension of infection in patients with infectious endocarditis. Perivalvular extension of infection is a not-infrequent and potentially fatal complication of bacterial endocarditis. Because the efficacy of various modalities in the diagnosis of such complications is not well established, a selective review of the published literature on this issue is worthwhile. The electrocardiogram is the easiest study to obtain. It is quite specific in identifying perivalvular extension of infection when conduction system disease is demonstrated but has a low degree of sensitivity overall. Transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography, and color-flow Doppler echocardiography are the most practical and useful techniques for diagnosis of perivalvular extension of infection. Magnetic resonance imaging also appears to be an effective tool in this setting; however, because of a paucity of clinical data, its precise utility has not yet been determined. Nuclear medicine studies and computed tomography play a minimal role. Cardiac catheterization is as useful as the echocardiographic techniques but is invasive, not as readily available, and significantly riskier in terms of complications. An approach to the diagnosis of perivalvular extension of infection is proposed on the basis of the literature review. 
Assessing drugs for the treatment of heart failure. The aims of treatment in patients with heart failure, as with any other condition, are to relieve symptoms and prolong life. A secondary objective is to do so at the lowest possible economic cost. When treatment of the cause of heart failure is possible--which usually means some form of surgery, but could include treatment of a primary disease, such as thyrotoxicosis--then this is obviously the treatment of choice. In patients for whom there is no such definitive treatment, a wide and increasing variety of drugs are available. When new antifailure drugs are to be developed there are therefore two problems: first, to ensure that they are more effective than placebo treatment, and second, to compare them with existing drugs. Both of these tests can present ethical difficulties, for it is unreasonable to withhold established effective treatment in order to conduct a placebo-controlled trial, and when drugs are being compared, it is unlikely that any new medication will be dramatically superior to an old one. The more effective the treatments already available, the harder it becomes to evaluate a new drug. 
The extent and time course of motoneuron involvement in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The numbers and relative sizes of motor units have been estimated in 373 muscles of 123 patients with ALS: 74 of the muscles were examined on more than one occasion. The median duration between the onset of symptoms and the initial examination was 12 months; by this time, approximately 90% of the tested muscles showed losses of motor units. The evoked motor unit potentials continued to enlarge in most, but not all, muscles as the disease progressed. Once a muscle became affected by the disease process, the average time-course was such that the motor unit population halved in each 6-month period of the first year and diminished more slowly thereafter. A small proportion of patients was encountered in whom the disease progressed much more slowly and there were occasional large fluctuations in the motor unit estimates suggestive of reversible motoneuron dysfunction. 
Prostacyclin production and mediation of adenylate cyclase activity in the pulmonary artery. Alterations after prolonged hypoxia in the rat. Prostacyclin is a critical mediator of structure and function in the pulmonary circulation, causing both the inhibition of vascular smooth muscle growth and vasodilation via the stimulation of adenylate cyclase. To examine the potential role of alterations in prostacyclin production or mechanism of action in chronic hypoxic pulmonary hypertension, we determined the effects of prolonged (7 d) in vivo hypoxia on in vitro prostacyclin synthesis and mediation of adenylate cyclase activity in rat main pulmonary arteries. In control arteries prostacyclin production exceeded that of prostaglandin (PG) E2 by 25-fold, with 42% originating from the endothelium. Studies utilizing indomethacin revealed that endogenous prostaglandins mediate at least 69% of basal adenylate cyclase activity. Prostacyclin-stimulated enzyme activity was enhanced by exogenous GTP, indicating that this is a receptor-mediated process involving G protein amplification. Comparable dose-related responses to prostacyclin and PGE2 suggest that these agents may activate a common receptor. After 7 d of in vivo hypoxia there was a 2.7-fold increase in in vitro prostacyclin production, with equivalent increases in synthesis in the endothelium and vascular smooth muscle. However, despite this increase there was no change in basal adenylate cyclase activity, and this was associated with attenuated sensitivity of the enzyme to prostacyclin stimulation. Concomitant diminution of the response to beta-adrenergic stimulation, with previously-demonstrated beta receptor downregulation and unaltered postreceptor-mediated activity, suggests that the blunted response to prostacyclin is due to receptor downregulation. Parallel studies of the thoracic aorta indicated that these changes are specific to the pulmonary artery. It is postulated that attenuation of the response of adenylate cyclase to prostacyclin may contribute to the structural changes and hypertension observed in the pulmonary vasculature of the rat with chronic hypoxia. 
Prognostic value of a treadmill exercise score in outpatients with suspected coronary artery disease BACKGROUND. The treadmill exercise test identifies patients with different degrees of risk of death from cardiovascular events. We devised a prognostic score, based on the results of treadmill exercise testing, that accurately predicts outcome among inpatients referred for cardiac catheterization. This study was designed to determine whether this score could also accurately predict prognosis in unselected outpatients. METHODS. We prospectively studied 613 consecutive outpatients with suspected coronary disease who were referred for exercise testing between 1983 and 1985. Follow-up was 98 percent complete at four years. The treadmill score was calculated as follows: duration of exercise in minutes--(5 x the maximal ST-segment deviation during or after exercise, in millimeters)--(4 x the treadmill angina index). The numerical treadmill angina index was 0 for no angina, 1 for nonlimiting angina, and 2 for exercise-limiting angina. Treadmill scores ranged from -25 (indicating the highest risk) to +15 (indicating the lowest risk). RESULTS. Predicted outcomes for the outpatients, based on their treadmill scores, agreed closely with the observed outcomes. The score accurately separated patients who subsequently died from those who lived for four years (area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve = 0.849). The treadmill score was a better discriminator than the clinical data and was even more useful for outpatients than it had been for inpatients. Approximately two thirds of the outpatients had treadmill scores indicating low risk (greater than or equal to +5), reflecting longer exercise times and little or no ST-segment deviation, and their four-year survival rate was 99 percent (average annual mortality rate, 0.25 percent). Four percent of the outpatients had scores indicating high risk (less than -10), reflecting shorter exercise times and more severe ST-segment deviation; their four-year survival rate was 79 percent (average annual mortality rate, 5 percent). CONCLUSIONS. The treadmill score is a useful and valid tool that can help clinicians determine prognosis and decide whether to refer outpatients with suspected coronary disease for cardiac catheterization. In this study, it was a better predictor of outcome than the clinical assessment. 
Radioimmunodetection of neuroblastoma with iodine-131-3F8: correlation with biopsy, iodine-131-metaiodobenzylguanidine and standard diagnostic modalities. Iodine-131-3F8, a murine IgG3 monoclonal antibody specific for ganglioside GD2 was evaluated by radioimmunoscintigraphy in 42 patients with neuroblastoma. Comparison was made with 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate (MDP) bone scans, as well as computed axial tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Iodine-131-3F8 detected more abnormal sites (283) than [131I] MIBG (138) or 99mTc-MDP (69), especially in patients with extensive disease. In 20 patients with soft-tissue tumors demonstrated by CT/MRI, 131I-3F8 detected the disease in 18. Upon surgical resection, two tumors interpreted as negative with 131I-3F8 imaging revealed ganglioneuroma, one showing microscopic foci of neuroblastoma. In contrast, 131I-3F8 imaging identified tumors that were confirmed histologically as neuroblastomas. In 26 patients with evidence of marrow disease by antibody scans, 14/26 had confirmation by iliac crest marrow aspirate/biopsy examinations. We conclude that 131I-3F8 scintigraphy has clinical utility in the management of patients with neuroblastoma by improving the sensitivity of tumor detection. 
Prognostic significance of the number of metastatic lymph nodes in patients with gastric cancer. To confirm the prognostic significance of the number of the metastatic lymph nodes (MLN) in cases of gastric cancer, the results of surgical treatment of 668 patients with primary gastric cancer were analyzed retrospectively. Five-year survival rates were calculated with reference to the number of MLN, namely, none (89.2%), one to three (77.4%), four to six (55.8%), and seven or more (36.2%). Furthermore, even when the cancer had invaded the serosa, 5-year survival was significantly more frequent in patients with one to three MLN (71.7%) than in those with four to six (35.5%) or more than six (31.5%) (P less than 0.01), and the 5-year survival was close to that of patients with no MLN (70.5%). Not only qualitative but also quantitative evaluation of lymph node metastasis is essential for estimating the prognosis of patients with gastric cancer. 
Culture, illness, and the biopsychosocial model. Family medicine has appropriated the biopsychosocial model as a conceptualization of the systemic interrelationships among the biological, the psychological, and the social in health and illness. For all its strengths, it is questionable whether this model adequately depicts the centrality of culture to the human experience of illness. Culture (as meaning system) is not an optional factor that only sometimes influences health and illness; it is prerequisite for all meaningful human experience, including that of being ill. A more adequate model of the relationship between culture and illness would demonstrate the preeminence of culture in the experience of illness among all people, not just members of "exotic" cultures; would view healers as well as patients as dwellers in culture; would incorporate the role of culture as meaning system in linking body, mind, and world; and would promote the significance of the cultural context as a resource for research and therapy. 
von Willebrand factor and factor VIII in renal transplant recipients under immunosuppression with cyclosporine and steroids. Sequential measurements over 4 months in 17 patients. In 17 consecutive cadaver kidney transplant recipients treated with cyclosporine (CsA) and steroids, the median of antigenic and functional levels of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and factor VIII (FVIII) before transplantation were elevated (vWF:Ag: 206%, vWF:RCof: 202%; FVIII:Ag: 248%, FVIII:C: 224%; normal values 50-150%). Sequential measurements after transplantation and during CsA treatment revealed a transient significant increase of median values with highest amounts of vWF:Ag of 362% (2 p less than 0.0001), FVIII:Ag of 398% (2 p less than 0.001) and FVIII:C of 360% (2 p less than 0.0001) (Friedman test). vWF:RCof did not show statistically significant changes. After 4 months, levels of vWF and FVIII comparable to those obtained before transplantation were observed. In univariate statistical analysis no correlation was found between vWF of FVIII on the one hand and plasma creatinine levels, CsA dose or CsA whole blood through levels on the other hand. However, multivariate statistics revealed to some extent a positive influence of CsA blood levels on vWF:Ag levels. Patients with vascular rejection or chronic CsA nephrotoxicity showed significantly lower levels of vWF:Ag as compared with patients without endothelial cell damage in the kidney (2 p less than 0.05). However, the difference in vWF:Ag levels already existed before transplantation. In contrast to recent reports, plasma vWF levels were not indicative of vascular injury in kidney graft recipients nor was the marked elevation of vWF and FVIII associated with thromboembolic complications ascribed to CsA treatment. 
Liver involvement in Alpers disease. Alpers disease consists of diffuse cerebral degeneration manifested as developmental delay, seizures, vomiting, and progressive neuromuscular deterioration, with liver disease and death. We report the clinical course of the liver disease, histologic progression of the hepatic lesions, and etiologic investigations in five patients (four girls, three kinships). All had grown and developed normally until seen at 6 to 36 months of age (mean 20 months), with vomiting (n = 5), progressive hypotonia (n = 3), or seizures (n = 2). All had been given anticonvulsants, including valproic acid in three. Liver disease was noted at a mean age of 35 months (range 9 to 67 months), with hepatomegaly (two patients), abnormal hepatic synthetic function (three) or transaminase values (three), and cirrhosis in one. Patients survived for a mean of 4.6 weeks (range 1 to 8 weeks) after the identification of liver disease; all died of hepatic failure. Results of evaluation for infectious and metabolic causes of liver disease and causes of degenerative neuromuscular disease were negative in all patients. Premortem liver biopsy specimens (n = 3) demonstrated an early lesion consisting of lobular disarray, microvesicular steatosis, periportal acute and chronic inflammation, and individual hepatocyte necrosis. Autopsy findings (n = 5) consisted of macrovesicular steatosis, massive hepatocyte dropout, and proliferation of bile ductular elements, with almost complete replacement of hepatocytes by proliferating bile ductular elements in two patients. Brain showed characteristic neuronal degeneration. We conclude that Alpers disease can be a cause of rapidly progressive liver failure in early childhood. Although the cause of this autosomal recessive disease is not known, it does not appear to be related to peroxisomal dysfunction. 
Vulnerability of nerve fibres to ischaemia. A quantitative light and electron microscope study. In order to learn more about the vulnerability of nerve fibres to ischemia, a quantitative study of nerve fibre abnormalities was performed on biopsy specimens of the superficial branch of the peroneal nerve from 26 patients with vasculitic neuropathy: 20 had necrotizing arteritis, 5 a lymphocytic, and 1 a leucocytoclastic vasculitis on nerve and/or muscle biopsy. The density of myelinated fibres ranged from 25 to 7880 per mm2 (n = 8470 +/- 706 (SD]. There was a marked inequality in the density of nerve fibres between the fascicles of individual nerves with a mean coefficient of variation of 41 +/- 37 (SD) % versus 7.4 +/- 3.0% in controls. Loss of myelinated fibres, which was greater for fibres larger than 7 microns in diameter, was more severe than that for unmyelinated axons. Regeneration, which was assessed by the number of clustered axons, decreased when the density of myelinated fibres decreased, suggesting that severe nerve ischaemia precludes axonal regeneration. Wallerian degeneration affected on average 58% (range 5-100%) and segmental demyelination, mainly of the secondary type, on average 1.94% (range 1-10%) of teased fibres. It was concluded that (1) myelinated fibres are more vulnerable to ischaemia than unmyelinated axons; (2) large myelinated fibres are affected before the smaller ones; (3) segmental demyelination is uncommon in this context; (4) severe nerve ischaemia precludes axonal regeneration. 
The role of endogenous free radical scavengers on tissue recovery in the experimental ulcer model. The role of lipid peroxidation and endogenous oxygen-derived free radical scavengers on ischemia-reperfusion injury and tissue recovery in rat ulcer model corresponding to the gastric histopathology was investigated. Male Wistar rats weighting 200-250 g were heparinized before occlusion of the celiac axis for 1.5 h. Endogenous CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD), Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase, fumarase, cytochrome c oxidase, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive compounds as lipid peroxidation products were measured in the gastric tissue at 3 h, and 1, 2, 4, and 7 days after release and in the controls (no occlusion). At 3 h after release, erosion of the gastric mucosa was observed, and gastric ulcers beyond the muscularis mucosae were present in the gastric body 2 days later. Seven days after release, gastric ulcers had disappeared. Activity levels for all five enzymes (CuZn-SOD, Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase, fumarase, and cytochrome c oxidase) were low for days 1-4 after release and did not return to control levels by the seventh day. It was observed that the ulcer formation, as evidenced by the histopathology, was significantly related to the levels of endogenous CuZn-SOD, Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase, fumarase, and cytochrome c oxidase activities. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive compounds were also low through the entire course of ulcer formation. The study concludes that decreases in the levels of these oxygen-derived free radical scavengers may result in the formation of gastric ulcers; however, endogenous free-radical scavengers may not correspond with tissue recovery. Lipid peroxidation may not be related to ulcer formation. 
Comparison of intravenous urokinase plus heparin versus heparin alone in acute myocardial infarction. Urochinasi per via Sistemica nell'Infarto Miocardico (USIM) Collaborative Group. In a randomized trial of the effects on in-hospital mortality of intravenous urokinase plus heparin versus heparin alone, 2,531 patients with acute myocardial infarction in 89 coronary care units were enrolled for greater than 30 months. Patients admitted within 4 hours of the onset of pain were randomized to receive either intravenous urokinase (a bolus dose of 1 million U repeated after 60 minutes) plus heparin (a bolus dose of 10,000 U followed by 1,000 IU/hour for 48 hours) or heparin alone (infused at the same rate). Complete data were obtained in 2,201 patients (1,128 taking urokinase and 1,073 taking heparin). At 16 days, overall hospital mortality was 8% in the urokinase and 8.3% in the heparin group (p = not significant). Among patients with anterior infarction, mortality was 10.3% in the urokinase and 13.9% in the heparin group (p = 0.09; relative risk = 0.73). The incidence of major bleeding (urokinase 0.44%, heparin 0.37%) as well as the overall incidence of stroke (urokinase 0.35%, heparin 0.20%) was similar in the 2 groups. The rates of major in-hospital cardiac complications (reinfarction, postinfarction angina) were also similar. 
Language functions in progressive supranuclear palsy. Language functions were studied in 6 patients with clinically diagnosed progressive supranuclear palsy who conformed to the characteristic pattern of 'subcortical dementia'. Dysarthria, reading difficulties and disturbances of handwriting were present in all patients. Some patients showed additional deficits including visual dyslexia, constructional dysgraphia and an increased rate of self-corrections and misnamings in object confrontation naming. In most instances, the naming errors referred to an object visually similar to the target object, suggesting that visual misperception is the major cause of the naming disorder. It is concluded that a variety of language impairments may develop secondary to other neurological and neuropsychological changes in progressive supranuclear palsy. 
Periodic and chaotic host-parasite interactions in human malaria. It has been recognized since ancient times that malaria fever is highly periodic but the mechanism has been poorly understood. Malaria fever is related to the parasite growth cycle in erythrocytes. After a fixed period of replication, a mature parasite (schizont) causes the infected erythrocyte to rupture, releasing progeny that quickly invade other erythrocytes. Simultaneous rupture of a large number of schizonts stimulates a host fever response. Febrile temperatures are damaging to Plasmodium falciparum, particularly in the second half of its 48-hr replicative cycle. Using a mathematical model, we show that these interactions naturally tend to generate periodic fever. The model predicts chaotic parasite population dynamics at high multiplication rates, consistent with the classical observation that P. falciparum causes less regular fever than other species of parasite. 
Effect of hypotensive epidural anaesthesia on acetabular cement-bone fixation in total hip arthroplasty. We selected 20 matched pairs of patients who had had total hip arthroplasty by the same surgeon using the same cemented technique. Matching was by age, sex, height, weight and diagnosis. One of each pair had received hypotensive epidural anaesthesia, with less than 300 ml blood loss: the other had normotensive general anaesthesia with more than 500 ml of blood loss. Early postoperative radiographs were evaluated independently by three blinded observers, using a scoring criteria which assessed the quality of the cement-bone interface. The results showed that patients who had received epidural anaesthesia had significantly better radiographic scores (p less than 0.02). Our findings suggest that hypotensive anaesthesia facilitates penetration of cement into bone. 
Echocardiographic estimation of critical left ventricular size in infants with isolated aortic valve stenosis. With the current trend to performing surgical valvotomy for infantile aortic stenosis without cardiac catheterization, there is a need to develop echocardiographic criteria for adequacy of left ventricular size. The echocardiograms and catheterization data of all 25 infants less than 3 months of age undergoing aortic valvotomy for isolated aortic valve stenosis from September 1980 through July 1990 were reviewed. Significant differences (p less than 0.05) between the survivors and nonsurvivors were noted for age at operation (30 +/- 28 vs. 3 +/- 1.5 days), mitral valve diameter (10.1 +/- 1.7 vs. 7.7 +/- 1.5 mm), left ventricular end-diastolic dimension (18.4 +/- 6.4 vs. 11.4 +/- 3 mm), left atrial dimensions (15.3 +/- 3.8 vs. 10 +/- 2.4 mm), left ventricular cross-sectional area on the parasternal long-axis echocardiogram (4 +/- 1.9 vs. 2 +/- 1.9 cm2) and angiographically determined left ventricular end-diastolic volume (43 +/- 23 vs. 11 +/- 5 ml/m2). There was no difference with respect to patient weight, body surface area, aortic root dimension or left ventricular ejection fraction. Left ventricular cross-sectional area less than 2 cm2 as measured on the parasternal long-axis echocardiogram was found in 5 of 7 nonsurvivors and 0 of 12 survivors, making this a risk factor for perioperative death (p less than 0.05). Left ventricular end-diastolic dimension less than 13 mm was found in 5 of 6 nonsurvivors and 2 of 17 survivors, making this another risk factor for early mortality (p less than 0.05). 
Compartment syndrome of the thigh with osteogenesis imperfecta. A case report. Compartment syndrome of the thigh has been sporadically reported in the orthopedic literature. A 27-year-old man with osteogenesis imperfecta sustained a femoral fracture with relatively minor trauma and subsequently developed compartment syndrome of the thigh. Fat embolism syndrome and hyperplastic callus developed postoperatively. 
Acute effects of intravenous nicardipine on hemodynamics and cardiac function in patients with a healed myocardial infarction and no evidence of congestive heart failure. Acute effects of intravenous nicardipine (10 micrograms/kg) on systemic hemodynamics and cardiac function were evaluated in 17 patients with a healed myocardial infarction and no evidence of congestive heart failure. Mean New York Heart Association functional class was 1.6 +/- 0.5 (mean +/- standard deviation). Aortic systolic pressure (p less than 0.001) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased (10 +/- 3 to 8 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), and systemic vascular resistance decreased significantly (p less than 0.001), whereas pulmonary and right atrial pressure and pulmonary arteriolar resistance did not change. Cardiac and stroke indexes showed biphasic changes. Although positive and negative maximal rate of left ventricular pressures decreased significantly (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively), they did not change significantly when aortic systolic pressure was corrected. There was a significant inverse correlation between the negative rate of left ventricular pressure/aortic systolic pressure before nicardipine infusion and its maximal percent increase after infusion (r = -0.56, p less than 0.05), indicating a beneficial effect on diastolic relaxation in patients with impaired diastolic function. Our data show that a low dose (10 micrograms/kg) of intravenous nicardipine exerts a favorable effect on impaired diastolic function, but depresses left ventricular pump function with much less effect on right heart circulation. 
Bioelectric impedance analysis: experience with male patients with cirrhosis. Bioelectric impedance analysis is a new, convenient and portable method used to estimate total body water and to assess body composition in healthy people. We used the tetrapolar bioelectrical impedance analysis method in 58 cirrhotic patients to assess its clinical applicability. Whole-body resistance, reactance and impedance were measured and compared with those of 30 healthy volunteers matched for age and sex. The resistance and impedance values of ascitic cirrhotic patients (resistance = 461 +/- 80 omega; impedance = 462 +/- 80 omega) and nonascitic cirrhotic patients (resistance = 487 +/- 96 omega; impedance = 489 +/- 97 omega) were comparable with the resistance (488 +/- 44 omega) and impedance (491 +/- 44 omega) of controls. However, a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in whole body reactance was found in patients with ascites and in those without ascites (34 +/- 9 omega vs. 47 +/- 12 omega) as compared with healthy subjects (56 +/- 7 omega). In 10 ascitic patients total body water was determined both before and after paracentesis; the volume of intraperitoneal fluid removed (7.9 +/- 3.8 L) could not be fully accounted for but only detected as an average volume of 1.9 +/- 1.0 L independently of the initial volume of the ascites. Our data clearly demonstrate that tetrapolar bioelectric impedance analysis is not adequate for measuring variations of "compartmentalized" fluid in the abdomen. 
Experimental hepatocellular carcinoma: MR receptor imaging. Relaxation time measurements and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging were performed in three different animal models of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). After intravenous administration of asialoglycoprotein-directed arabinogalactan-stabilized ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (10 mumol Fe/kg receptor agent), T2 of normal liver decreased from 41.6 msec +/- 1.0 to 19.4 msec +/- 1.7 (P less than .05) in rats. T2 of HCC implanted in normal liver or liver with chronic hepatitis was essentially unchanged. These results were similar to those obtained by administration of a reticuloendothelial cell-directed conventional iron oxide; however, the required dose of receptor agent was lower. MR imaging in a woodchuck model of virally induced HCC confirmed the distribution of the hepatocyte-directed agent to regions of functioning and differentiated hepatocytes but not to malignant tumor tissue. The results suggest that MR receptor imaging may play a role in the differentiation between primary liver tumor and functional liver tissue such as that in normal liver hepatitis or regenerating nodules. 
The beneficial effects of early dexamethasone administration in infants and children with bacterial meningitis. BACKGROUND. In experimental models of meningitis and in children with meningitis, dexamethasone has been shown to reduce meningeal inflammation and to improve the outcome of disease. METHODS. We conducted a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of dexamethasone therapy in 101 infants and children admitted to the National Children's Hospital, San Jose, Costa Rica, who had culture-proved bacterial meningitis or clinical signs of meningitis and findings characteristic of bacterial infection on examination of the cerebrospinal fluid. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either dexamethasone and cefotaxime (n = 52) or cefotaxime plus placebo (n = 49). Dexamethasone (0.15 mg per kilogram of body weight) was given 15 to 20 minutes before the first dose of cefotaxime and was continued every 6 hours thereafter for four days. RESULTS. The demographic, clinical, and laboratory profiles were similar for the patients in the two treatment groups. By 12 hours after the beginning of therapy, the mean opening cerebrospinal pressure and the estimated cerebral perfusion pressure had improved significantly in the dexamethasone-treated children but worsened in the children treated only with cefotaxime (controls). At 12 hours meningeal inflammation and the concentrations of two cytokines (tumor necrosis factor alpha and platelet-activating factor) in the cerebrospinal fluid had decreased in the dexamethasone-treated children, whereas in the controls the inflammatory response in the cerebrospinal fluid had increased. At 24 hours the clinical condition and mean prognostic score were significantly better among those treated with dexamethasone than among the controls. At follow-up examination after a mean of 15 months, 7 of the surviving 51 dexamethasone-treated children (14 percent) and 18 of 48 surviving controls (38 percent) had one or more neurologic or audiologic sequelae (P = 0.007); the relative risk of sequelae for a child receiving placebo as compared with a child receiving dexamethasone was 3.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.3 to 11.5). CONCLUSIONS. The results of this study, in which dexamethasone administration began before the initiation of cefotaxime therapy, provide additional evidence of a beneficial effect of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis. 
Evolution of myocardial ischemia and left ventricular function in patients with angina pectoris without myocardial infarction and total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and collaterals from other coronary arteries. Repeated episodes of myocardial ischemia might lead to progressive impairment of left ventricular (LV) function. This radionuclide study assessed myocardial ischemia and LV function several years after documented coronary occlusion without myocardial infarction. Over 5 years, 24 consecutive patients, who underwent cardiac catheterization for angina pectoris without myocardial infarction, had isolated total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery with well-developed collateral vessels. Five patients were successfully treated by coronary bypass grafting and 3 by coronary angioplasty. Among the 16 medically treated patients, 1 was lost to follow-up and 1 died (extracardiac death). The mean (+/- standard deviation) follow-up (14 patients) was 48 +/- 15 months. At follow-up, 8 patients still had clinical chest pain, 11 received antianginal therapy, 4 patients had no stress ischemia and the other 10 had greater than or equal to 1 sign of stress ischemia. All patients had a normal LV ejection fraction at rest (mean 60 +/- 3%; range 55 to 65%). Collateral circulation preserves LV function at the time of occlusion and, in some cases, prevents the development of myocardial ischemia; in patients with persisting myocardial ischemia after well-collateralized coronary occlusion, LV function is not impaired at long-term follow-up. 
The prognosis of melanoma patients with metastases to two or more lymph node areas. The prognosis of melanoma patients who present with metastatic involvement of two or more noncontiguous lymph node regions before the detection of extranodal metastases has not been previously reported. We identified 21 patients with metastatic melanoma in at least two nodal basins in a review of 175 patients with melanoma undergoing lymphadenectomy at the National Cancer Institute. The median survival time of these patients was 46 months, with 55%, 27%, and 17% of the patients alive 2, 5, and 10 years, respectively, after the second lymphadenectomy. Because the prognosis of melanoma patients with metastases to two or more regional nodal areas appears equivalent to that of patients with metastatic involvement of only one regional node site, lymphadenectomy of the involved groups should be performed with therapeutically curative intent. 
Hereditary sacral agenesis with presacral mass and anorectal stenosis: the Currarino triad. A family with autosomal dominant inheritance of sacral agenesis is described. Ten members were affected; four had associated presacral teratomas and anterior sacral meningoceles, giving rise to serious complications in three, including bacterial meningitis, local recurrence of teratoma and perianal sepsis. Three of those with presacral masses presented initially with anorectal anomalies. Other associated abnormalities included tethering of the cord, hydrocephalus, duplex ureter, hydronephrosis, vesicoureteric reflux, neurogenic bladder, bicornuate uterus, rectovaginal fistula and hereditary spherocytosis. Early diagnosis and surgical excision of a presacral mass is advised to prevent future morbidity and mortality. 
Treatment of leiomyomata uteri with leuprolide acetate depot: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. The Leuprolide Study Group. The purpose of this study was to evaluate efficacy and safety parameters in women with leiomyomata uteri treated with the GnRH agonist leuprolide acetate depot, 3.75 mg intramuscularly every 4 weeks for 24 weeks. One hundred twenty-eight patients were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter study involving 13 investigative centers. Mean uterine volume decreased by 36% at 12 weeks and 45% at 24 weeks of leuprolide therapy. Patients treated with placebo had increased in mean uterine volume of 16% at 12 weeks and 5% at 24 weeks. Seventy-seven percent of leuprolide-treated patients had a more than 25% reduction in uterine volume, compared with 9% of placebo-treated controls. Mean uterine volume returned to pre-treatment size 24 weeks after cessation of leuprolide treatment. The majority of patients had resolution or improvement of their fibroid-related symptoms after 24 weeks of leuprolide treatment. Of 38 leuprolide-treated patients presenting with menorrhagia, 37 (97%) had resolution of this symptom at the time of the final visit. Although 95% of women treated with leuprolide acetate experienced some side effects related to hypoestrogenism, only five patients (8%) terminated treatment prematurely. We conclude that leuprolide acetate depot treatment of leiomyomata uteri is safe and causes significant but temporary reductions in uterine size and fibroid-related symptoms. 
Effect of bile on growth, peritoneal absorption, and blood clearance of Escherichia coli in E coli peritonitis. The effect of intraperitoneal bile on growth, peritoneal absorption, and clearance of Escherichia coli was determined in E coli peritonitis in the rat. In E coli peritonitis, intraperitoneal bacterial counts gradually decreased, whereas they increased (after 2 hours) with subsequent development of bacteremia in E coli plus bile peritonitis. After an intraperitoneal injection of labeled bacteria, blood radioactivity was only initially lower in E coli plus bile peritonitis compared with E coli peritonitis. Clearance from blood was lower in E coli plus bile peritonitis than in E coli peritonitis. Organ localization was similar in E coli peritonitis and E coli plus bile peritonitis with decreased splenic, increased pulmonary, and unchanged hepatic uptakes compared with controls. Impaired peritoneal absorption of bacteria, together with impaired local host defense, is likely to enhance the noxious effect of bile in E coli peritonitis. 
Recombinant interferon-gamma (rIFN-gamma) in dermatology. This paper gives a short review on the function, pharmacokinetics, and therapeutic application of recombinant interferon-gamma (rIFN-gamma) in dermatology. Simultaneously, our own experiences are presented for 57 patients (phase II study) suffering from genital warts (21 patients), psoriatic arthritis (10 patients), psoriasis vulgaris (three patients), malignant melanoma (six patients), bowenoid papulosis (four patients), Behcet's disease (four patients), basal cell carcinoma (six patients), as well as herpes simplex recidivans, epidermodysplasia verruciformis, and mycosis fungoides (one patient each). We conclude that there might be an indication for treatment with rIFN-gamma in genital warts, bowenoid papulosis, Behcet's disease, and microbial infections, such as leprosy and cutaneous leishmaniasis. Even though there are reports of a limited beneficial effect of rIFN-gamma on arthritis and skin lesions in psoriasis, we failed to observe any in 10 patients. The main side effects in our low-dose study (50-100 micrograms/d) were mild fever (78%), fatigue (78%), and myalgia (65%). Laboratory tests revealed an increase in the serum triglyceride level, in particular, in psoriatic patients. 
Hereditary sacral agenesis with presacral mass and anorectal stenosis: the Currarino triad. A family with autosomal dominant inheritance of sacral agenesis is described. Ten members were affected; four had associated presacral teratomas and anterior sacral meningoceles, giving rise to serious complications in three, including bacterial meningitis, local recurrence of teratoma and perianal sepsis. Three of those with presacral masses presented initially with anorectal anomalies. Other associated abnormalities included tethering of the cord, hydrocephalus, duplex ureter, hydronephrosis, vesicoureteric reflux, neurogenic bladder, bicornuate uterus, rectovaginal fistula and hereditary spherocytosis. Early diagnosis and surgical excision of a presacral mass is advised to prevent future morbidity and mortality. 
Extrapleural pneumonectomy, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy in the treatment of diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma. Malignant pleural mesothelioma has been considered a uniformly fatal disease associated with a median survival of 4 to 18 months. Extrapleural pneumonectomy alone has proved disappointing in the treatment of this disease, as have chemotherapy and radiotherapy. From 1980 to 1990, 31 patients with pleural mesothelioma underwent multimodality therapy that included extrapleural pneumonectomy with resection of the pericardium and diaphragm. The age of the patients was 53.4 +/- 8.6 years; 26 were male. All patients had the pathologic diagnosis reviewed before treatment. At thoracotomy six patients had residual (unresectable) gross disease, and in 23 there was histologic evidence of disease at the resection margin. The perioperative morbidity and mortality rates were 19% and 6%, respectively. The mean length of hospital stay for the 29 patients who survived the operation was 10.9 +/- 3.5 days. Postoperatively 26 patients received cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cis-platinum chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. The survival rates were 70% at 1 year and 48% at 2 years. Trends toward improved survival in the patients with complete resections approached but did not reach statistical significance. These data suggest that this multimodality protocol can be administered with acceptable morbidity and mortality. Prospective trials are justified to further clarify the role of this approach. 
Adamantinoid basal cell carcinoma. An ultrastructural study. We describe an adamantinoid basal cell carcinoma that has developed in the mucocutaneous border of the upper lip. An ultrastructural study disclosed three types of cells that were morphologically distinct in the tumor nest. Cells of the first type were basically the same as those of ordinary basal cell carcinoma. Cells of the second type showed varying degrees of cytoplasmic content loss in a worm-eaten pattern and seemed to consist of degenerating cells. Cells of the third type possessed a well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum filled with medium electron-dense fine substance, which was also seen in the extracellular space. In relationship with the histochemical findings, and based on the histogenesis of adamantinoid basal cell carcinoma, we propose that subpopulations of tumor cells undergo spontaneous degeneration and that the spaces of such disappearing cells are refilled with products containing glycosaminoglycans secreted by another subpopulation of the tumor cells. 
Choledochal cyst and biliary atresia in the neonate: imaging findings in five cases. The radiologic findings in five neonates with choledochal cyst associated with extra-hepatic biliary atresia are described. All five patients (age range, 13-72 days) presented with jaundice and acholic stools. In all four patients who underwent sonographic examination, a cystic structure separate from the gallbladder representing the choledochal cyst was shown. The diagnosis of atresia of the distal common bile duct was made preoperatively in all cases by hepatobiliary scintigraphy. Diagnosis was confirmed by surgical findings and was demonstrated by intraoperative cholangiography in four cases. All patients were successfully treated with surgical intervention within 1 month from the time of diagnosis. Early detection of this rare disorder, which may be distinct from choledochal cyst found in children and adults, is important to prevent fatal complications of biliary obstruction. The combined use of sonography and hepatobiliary scintigraphy can correctly identify this subset of patients with persistent neonatal jaundice and provide valuable information for prompt surgical management. 
HBx gene of hepatitis B virus induces liver cancer in transgenic mice. The exact role of hepatitis B virus in the development of liver cancer is not known. The recent identification of a viral regulatory gene HBx suggests a possible direct involvement of the virus whereby the HBx protein, acting as a transcriptional transactivator of viral genes, may alter host gene expression and lead to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. We have tested this possibility of placing the entire HBx gene under its own regulatory elements directly into the germline of mice. Transgenic animals harbouring this viral gene succumbed to progressive histopathological changes specifically in the liver, beginning with multifocal areas of altered hepatocytes, followed by the appearance of benign adenomas, and proceeding to the development of malignant carcinomas. Male mice developed disease and died much earlier than females. This transgenic animal model appears ideal for defining the molecular events that follow the expression of the viral HBx gene and are responsible for the development of liver cancer. 
Bacterial translocation in trauma patients. Sepsis and multiple system organ failure (MSOF) are major causes of morbidity and mortality in trauma patients. Bacterial translocation induced by hypotension, endotoxemia, or burns is a reproducible phenomenon in the laboratory. The incidence of bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) in 29 critically ill patients was evaluated to determine its relationship to subsequent sepsis and MSOF. Bacterial translocation was documented in 3 of 4 patients who underwent laparotomy for gastrointestinal (GI) disease. No trauma patient (25 patients), even at second exploration 3-5 days after injury, had a positive MLN culture. Five patients died; 4 trauma patients, one with GI disease. Forty percent of the trauma patients had major complications, predominantly pulmonary infections with gram-negative bacteria. However, infectious complications and outcome were not related to MLN culture results. The classical progression of bacteria from the gut to the bloodstream via the MLNs may require time and gut mucosal injury. The data suggest that bacterial translocation to the MLNs is not a common occurrence in acutely injured trauma patients. 
Optical properties of normal, diseased, and laser photocoagulated myocardium at the Nd: YAG wavelength. Laser photocoagulation of the myocardium effectively destroys arrhythmogenic foci. The purpose of this study was 1) to compare the optical properties of canine myocardium before and after photocoagulation, 2) to compare the canine model with clinical cases by measuring the optical properties of human myocardium, and 3) to assess the optical properties of human myocardial scar and epicardial fat tissue. Measured optical properties were the absorption coefficient, mu a; scattering coefficient, mu s; and scattering anisotropy factor, g. Optical measurements were performed at 1064 nm wavelength on thin plane parallel tissue slices using the integrating sphere method with glass hemispheres on either side of the sample. The study showed 1) an increase of the scattering coefficient by 40% and a two- to threefold increase in reduced scattering coefficient as a result of photocoagulation; 2) that the mu a (0.035 +/- 0.024 mm-1) and mu s (17.9 +/- 3.8 mm-1) of human myocardium were not significantly different from mu a (0.043 +/- 0.021 mm-1) and mu s (17.3 +/- 2.2 mm-1) of canine myocardium, whereas the human g (0.964 +/- 0.005) was slightly different from the canine g (0.974 +/- 0.008); and 3) that the mu a (0.021 +/- 0.016 mm-1) of epicardial fat and mu s (13.8 +/- 1.1 mm-1) of myocardial scar were significantly lower than those of normal myocardium. A dynamic model of laser-tissue interaction incorporating these changes and inhomogeneities is necessary to better describe light distribution during laser photocoagulation. 
Androgen receptor and the testes influence hypertension in a hybrid rat model. The objective of this study was to determine if males with a deficient androgen receptor would develop hypertension when crossed with a hypertensive parent. Female King-Holtzman rats (n = 15), heterozygous for the testicular feminization (Tfm) gene, were crossed with male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and blood pressure was measured weekly from 5-14 weeks in the F1 hybrid males. Approximately 50% of the F1 hybrid males were Tfm males and androgen receptor-deficient, and 50% were normal. Blood pressure in the parent King-Holtzman males, Tfms, and female rats was also followed for the same time period. The F1 normal male hybrids had a significantly higher (p less than 0.05) systolic blood pressure than the Tfm hybrid males after 12 weeks (195 +/- 8 versus 170 +/- 8 mm Hg, respectively). Blood pressure in the male and Tfm Holtzman rats was 120 +/- 5 mm Hg and 110 +/- 6 mm Hg, respectively. Castration lowered blood pressure by 38 mm Hg in the hybrid males and 27 mm Hg in the Tfm hybrids. Female F1 hybrids also showed a pressure rise above that of female Holtzman controls (155 +/- 6 mm Hg versus 110 +/- 6 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) but lower than the F1 males and Tfm hybrids. Ovariectomized females with testosterone implants did not show an elevation in blood pressure. Plasma electrolytes, norepinephrine, and cholesterol were not significantly different between normal and Tfm hybrid males. The results suggest that the presence of an androgen receptor and a testis-derived factor mediate the blood pressure rise in the hybrid males. 
Tumor cytokinetic response to total parenteral nutrition in patients with head and neck cancers. Refeeding of patients with malignant tumors may induce tumor-cell DNA synthesis. The present study was aimed at evaluating whether induction of altered cell-cycle kinetics could be induced by intravenous total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in tumor biopsies from head and neck cancers. Nine malnourished patients with squamous cell carcinoma in the head-and-neck area were investigated before and after 5-7 d of continuous TPN. Tumor biopsies were taken in both fasted and fed states for determination of 1) ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, which is rate limiting for polyamine synthesis; 2) flow-cytometric-DNA-distribution measurements; and 3) the fraction of proliferating cells expressed as immunohistochemical reactivity with the monoclonal antibody Ki-67. The histopathological differentiation, the fraction of aneuploidic cells, ODC activity, and Ki-67 reactivity were not significantly related to each other, although the number of aneuploidic cells in replicative phases correlated with the number of cells expressing the Ki-67 antigen (r = 0.86, P less than 0.01). Tumor cytokinetics showed no evidence of being changed by TPN administration. 
Preoperative evaluation of the cardiac patient for noncardiac surgery. In summary, obtaining a comprehensive patient history is a critical part of the diagnostic and risk stratification process of the patient with cardiac disease undergoing non-cardiac surgery. Many of the factors associated with perioperative cardiac morbidity are treatable and early and aggressive management appears to have beneficial effects on morbidity and mortality rates. 
Superior vena cava syndrome caused by an intrathoracic plasmacytoma. A case of an extramedullary intrathoracic plasmacytoma causing superior vena cava syndrome is described. Review of the literature on intrathoracic plasmacytomas and superior vena cava syndrome revealed that no similar cases have been described to date. The initial presentation, management, and response to treatment are described. 
Acinar cell carcinoma of the pancreas: a rare cause of left-sided portal hypertension. Isolated splenic vein obstruction with left-sided portal hypertension is a rare clinical condition. Owing to the close relationship of the splenic vein and the pancreas, this rare phenomenon is usually secondary to pancreatic inflammation or neoplasm. Acinar cell carcinoma has long been recognized as a distinctive, rare type of pancreatic carcinoma. A case of isolated splenic vein obstruction with left-sided portal hypertension secondary to acinar cell carcinoma of the pancreas, which we are reporting here, is thought to the first documented in the literature. 
Proteinase-resistant prion protein accumulation in Syrian hamster brain correlates with regional pathology and scrapie infectivity. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that PrPSc, found only in scrapie, is a necessary component of the infectious scrapie agent. Equally compelling is the evidence that its accumulation in the brain causes the neuropathology characteristic of scrapie. We measured the regional concentration of PrPSc in nine brain regions throughout the course of scrapie in the Syrian hamster following intrathalamic inoculation of prions. PrPSc was compared to the regional concentration of glial fibrillary acidic protein, a measure of reactive astrocytic gliosis. PrPSc was detected first in the thalamus 14 to 21 days postinoculation and next in the septum at 28 days. Initiation of PrPSc synthesis and accumulation in the thalamus was attributable to the inoculum and in the septum to ventricular spread of de novo synthesized PrPSc. The timing and pattern of PrPSc accumulation in all other brain regions suggested transmission along neuroanatomic pathways. Reactive astrocytic gliosis followed PrPSc accumulation in each region by 1 to 2 weeks. Brain PrPSc, determined by summing the concentrations in each brain region, correlated well with scrapie infectivity titers throughout the course of infection (correlation coefficient = 0.975; slope of linear regression line = 1.136). Our results support the hypothesis that PrPSc participates in both the etiology and pathogenesis of prion diseases. 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract associated with well-differentiated carcinoma of the thyroid gland. The association of squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract with well-differentiated thyroid carcinomas has rarely been reported in the literature. We report 10 cases illustrating this occurrence. In eight cases, the thyroid carcinoma was discovered accidentally on histological examination of a single neck node, a neck node dissection specimen, an unexpectedly found thyroid nodule, or a systematically resected thyroid lobe, all during surgical treatment of an upper aerodigestive tract carcinoma. In the other two cases, metastatic thyroid neck nodes appeared during the follow-up of a patient with an upper aerodigestive tract carcinoma. No case of upper aerodigestive tract carcinomas was found during the follow-up of thyroid cancer patients. In most cases, adequate thyroid cancer surgery was performed simultaneously or later. Prognosis was essentially determined by the upper aerodigestive tract cancer. 
Mechanisms of gastric mucosal injury and protection. This article emphasizes and reviews the premise that because the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal injury is multifactorial, several protective mechanisms should also be considered in analyzing gastric mucosal defense. The first part of the article reviews the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal injury by major etiologic factors such as hypoxia and chemical and biological agents, and emphasizes the common endogenous mediators of damage (e.g, endothelins, leukotrienes, thromboxane, platelet-activating factor, monoamines, free radicals, proteases, ammonia, hydrochloric acid, and bile acids--in decreasing potency). The second part of the review is devoted to the gastroprotective mechanisms that are analyzed by anatomical (histologic) location and biochemical processes. The endogenous mediators of acute gastroprotection include prostaglandins, sulfhydryl (SH) compounds, non-SH antioxidants, polyamines, and epidermal growth factor, whereas the protective and mediatory role of glucocorticoids, somatostatin, pentagastrin, histamine, gangliosides, and calcitonin gene-related peptide need further studies. A list of endogenous and exogenous chemicals that exert biphasic, damaging, and protective effects on the gastric mucosa in also included. The final common pathway of acute gastroprotection at the structural and functional level seems to be the preservation of subepithelial microvascular integrity leading to maintenance of mucosal blood flow that allows the energy-dependent rapid restitution (cell migration) from surviving gastric neck cells to repair the superficial epithelial defect. Very new data on the contribution of a histodilutional barrier and release of proteases to gastroprotective processes are also discussed. 
Comorbidities and perioperative complications among patients with surgically treated benign prostatic hyperplasia. We address the question of whether or not age and comorbidity are related to intra- and postoperative complications after a transurethral resection. The data are derived from a retrospective, population-based study conducted in Hagen, Germany, which included all patients with an initial prostatectomy for benign prostatic hyperplasia (N = 621) during the five-year period 1984-1988. Seventy-seven percent of the patients had at least one of the following preoperative risk factors: heart disease, hypertension, smoking, chronic obstructive lung disease, and diabetes. There was no intraoperative death. The risk of intraoperative circulatory complications was found to be related to age only for patients without a history of heart diseases or hypertension. The incidence of major complications was 3.1 percent and was significantly higher in the oldest age group. Three patients (0.54%) died postoperatively in the hospital. Infections were the most frequent postoperative complications. The relationship of age and overall postoperative complications was not statistically significant either for patients with (p = 0.121) or without any comorbidity (p = 0.651). Based on this study it seems reasonable to conclude that age is not a clinically relevant risk factor for perioperative complications in patients who have a transurethral resection for benign prostatic hyperplasia. 
Tolerance of gastric mucosal flap to postoperative irradiation. When malignant lesions of the oral cavity, base of tongue, and oropharynx are treated with radical resection, adequate reconstruction is required. The free gastric mucosal flap with microvascular transfer is being used with increasing frequency at Washington University Medical Center. Because of the advanced nature of the primary lesions, most patients also require postoperative radiation therapy. In this paper the tolerance of the gastric mucosal flap to postoperative radiation therapy is reviewed. The changes resulting from radiation therapy in the mucosal flap were found to be acceptable, and no major complications were encountered. 
Dominantly inherited mitochondrial myopathy with multiple deletions of mitochondrial DNA: clinical, morphologic, and biochemical studies. We studied a large family with a dominantly inherited mitochondrial myopathy characterized by progressive external ophthalmoplegia, dysphagia, cataract, lactic acidosis, exercise intolerance, and early death. Morphologic studies of muscle biopsies suggested mitochondrial heteroplasmy and revealed ragged-red fibers and decreased histochemical reactions for cytochrome c oxidase and succinate dehydrogenase. Biochemistry showed a partial defect of cytochrome c oxidase and a mild generalized reduction of other mitochondrial enzymes requiring mitochondrial DNA-encoded subunits. Southern blot analysis and PCR amplification showed mitochondrial DNA deletions in muscle of all affected members, but not in lymphocytes or fibroblasts, suggesting a tissue-specific distribution. Deletions were multiple and seemed to increase with time and to correlate with the severity of the disease. 
Periventricular lesions in the white matter on magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly. A morphometric correlation with arteriolosclerosis and dilated perivascular spaces. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed postmortem on the brains of 40 patients aged over 60 yrs who had died from causes other than brain disease. Periventricular lesions of increased signal intensity on T2-weighted images, graded as moderate or severe, were found in 10% of the patients in the age group between 60 and 69 yrs, and in 50% between 80 and 89 yrs. Macroscopic and microscopic whole-brain sections were studied in 19 brain specimens (8 with normal white matter, 4 with moderate lesions and 7 with severe lesions of the white matter on MRI). The presence or absence of periventricular lesions on MRI correlated well with the severity of demyelination and astrocytic gliosis. Demyelination was always associated with an increased ratio between wall thickness and external diameter of arterioles (up to 150 microns). A variable degree of axonal loss in Bodian-stained sections was present in the white matter of all brains with demyelination. Dilated perivascular spaces were found and studied morphometrically in 9 brain specimens; their presence correlated strongly with corrected brain weight, but incompletely with demyelination and arteriolosclerosis. Our findings suggest that arteriolosclerosis is the primary factor in the pathogenesis of diffuse white matter lesions in the elderly. This is soon followed by demyelination and loss of axons, and only later by dilatation of perivascular spaces. 
Sphincter-sparing surgery. Since World War II, a variety of technical innovations have been introduced to preserve the anal sphincter in patients with chronic ulcerative colitis or tumors of the rectum. Studies of anorectal physiology have yielded guidelines for preserving continence and minimizing morbidity. For example, preservation of the anal rectal angle is essential; the rectal mucosa can be removed without impairing neural mechanisms; construction of a reservoir increases rectal compliance. Following these guidelines, surgeons have introduced new techniques and applications benefiting a larger and more varied patient population. Some technical problems remain, however, and patient selection criteria for restorative rectal surgery need to be refined. 
Efficient management of adrenal tumors. A retrospective analysis was carried out on 121 patients with primary adrenal tumors operated on at 2 Vancouver hospitals between the years 1970 and 1990. The purpose of the study was to identify discriminating factors between the various diagnoses in order to minimize both the time and the cost of the investigative process. There were 57 cortical adenomas, 35 pheochromocytomas, 15 carcinomas, 8 cases of cortical hyperplasia, and 6 miscellaneous tumors. The mean time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis of those patients presenting with an identifiable syndrome was 48.3 months. Those with a hypertensive syndrome presented significantly later than those with Cushing's syndrome (57.7 months versus 22.8 months, p less than 0.01). There was a significant delay in diagnosis in those patients with hypertension on the basis of an aldosteronoma as compared with those with hypertension secondary to a pheochromocytoma (75.4 months versus 36.1 months, p = 0.02). Cortical carcinomas were significantly larger than benign cortical tumors (12.7 cm versus 5.5 cm). No malignant neoplasm measured less than 5 cm in diameter. Diagnostic sensitivity for intravenous pyelogram (IVP) was 59%, for ultrasound 71%, for venography 50%, for meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIGB) (pheochromocytoma only) 80%, and for angiography 70%. However, for those patients with adrenal carcinomas, angiography was positive in 100% of cases. Computed tomography (CT) was the most sensitive localizing investigation with a sensitivity of 98%. While other localizing techniques were less sensitive than CT, they may still play a useful role in selected situations. Factors causing delay in diagnosis and the role of the various imaging modalities are discussed. 
Nutritional supplementation, psychosocial stimulation, and growth of stunted children: the Jamaican study. The benefits of nutritional supplementation, with or without psychosocial stimulation, on the growth of stunted children were evaluated. Children aged 9-24 mo with lengths less than -2 SD of the National Center for Health Statistics references (n = 129) were randomly assigned to four groups: control, nutritional supplementation, stimulation, and both interventions. A fifth group with lengths greater than -1 SD was also enrolled. Length, weight, head and arm circumferences, and triceps and subscapular skinfold thicknesses were measured on enrollment and 6 and 12 mo later. Multiple-regression analysis was used to determine the effects of the interventions in which age, sex, initial status, initial dietary intake, and several socioeconomic variables were controlled for. Stimulation had no effect on growth and there was no interaction between the interventions. After 12 mo supplemented children had significantly increased length, weight, and head circumference (all P less than 0.01). The effects of supplementation were not cumulative but occurred in the first 6 mo. 
Gastric carcinoma presenting as an exacerbation of ulcers during pregnancy. A case report. Gastric cancer is unusual during pregnancy. Also, because of the physiologic changes that occur with pregnancy, it is rare to see a worsening of peptic ulcers during pregnancy. A patient with an exacerbation of peptic ulcers presented with gastric carcinoma during pregnancy. 
Stress fractures in athletes. How to spot this underdiagnosed injury. Stress fractures are an increasingly common injury in competitive athletes, especially runners. Amenorrheic athletes are at particularly high risk. A radionuclide bone scan should be considered when the index of suspicion for stress fracture is high. Plain radiographs are of little use in establishing the diagnosis in the early stages of the injury. Early diagnosis and prompt institution of conservative therapy allow for a favorable outcome in most cases. Avoidance of or reduced participation in the inciting activity is important for pain control. Certain stress fractures, such as those involving the femoral neck, should be monitored closely and treated aggressively with internal fixation when conservative measures fail. Runners who have exercise-induced amenorrhea should be advised to decrease their training intensity to a level where menses resume. Cyclic therapy with conjugated estrogens and progesterone should also be considered, as should daily calcium supplementation. 
Mortality, neoplasia, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in patients treated with human pituitary growth hormone in the United Kingdom OBJECTIVE--To determine the cause of death and incidence of neoplasia in patients treated with human pituitary growth hormone. DESIGN--A long term cohort study established to receive details of death certification and tumour registrations through the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys and NHS central register. PATIENTS--All patients (1246 male, 662 female) treated for short stature with pituitary growth hormone under the Medical Research Council working party and health services human growth hormone committee. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Death or development of neoplasia. RESULTS--110 patients died (68 male, 42 female; aged 0.9-57 years) from 1972 to 1990. Fifty three death were from neoplasia responsible for growth hormone deficiency (27 craniopharyngioma, 24 other intracranial tumour, two leukaemia); two from histiocytosis X; and 13 from pituitary insufficiency. Six patients died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, six of other neurological disorders, and eight of acute infection. Other deaths were apparently unrelated to growth hormone deficiency or its treatment. Seventeen tumours (in 16 patients) were identified during or after growth hormone treatment. Four were in patients with previous intracranial neoplasia and two were after cranial irradiation. Thirteen were intracranial, the others being Hodgkin's lymphoma, osteosarcoma, carcinoma of colon, and basal cell carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS--Recurrence or progression of intracranial tumours and potentially avoidable metabolic consequences of hypopituitarism were the main causes of death. Growth hormone treatment probably did not contribute to new tumour development. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease after pituitary growth hormone treatment continues to occur in the United Kingdom. This cohort must remain under long term review. 
Neutralizing antibodies to interferon-alpha: relative frequency in patients treated with different interferon preparations. The frequencies of antibody development so far reported in patients treated with different interferons (IFNs) are not readily comparable because of differences in treatment regimens and assay methods. Thus the frequency of neutralizing antibody development was analyzed in a large sample of sera derived from a relatively homogeneous group of patients treated with different IFN-alpha preparations. The frequency of developing neutralizing antibody to IFN varied according to the IFN given. Particularly, the seroconversion frequency was significantly higher in patients treated with recombinant IFN-alpha 2a (20.2%) than in patients treated with either recombinant IFN-alpha 2b (6.9%) or IFN-alpha N1 (1.2%), a lymphoblastoid IFN-alpha. Furthermore, sera obtained from patients treated with either recombinant IFN neutralized both types of recombinant IFNs but failed to neutralize IFN-alpha N1. 
Glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in pleomorphic adenoma, chordoma, and astrocytoma. A comparison of three antibodies. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is a major constituent of glial cytoplasmic intermediate filaments. Glial fibrillary acidic protein expression has been accepted as a marker of astroglial differentiation or origin. However, GFAP expression has been demonstrated in a variety of normal and neoplastic tissues outside the central nervous system, including pleomorphic adenomas, chordomas, bone, and cartilage. It has been postulated that coexpression of GFAP and vimentin in neoplastic myoepithelial cells in pleomorphic adenomas reflects early chondroid differentiation. Glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in chondromyxoid and chordoid tumors was studied in formaldehyde solution-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections of 20 pleomorphic adenomas and 10 chordomas by the immunoperoxidase method with the use of commercially available monoclonal (n = 2) and polyclonal (n = 1) antibodies. All pleomorphic adenomas and chordomas demonstrated expression of GFAP with the use of the polyclonal antibody (Biomeda Corp [Foster City, Calif]). Variable expression of GFAP was present in 90% (18/20) and 70% (14/20) of pleomorphic adenomas, and in 20% (2/10) and 0% of chordomas, with the use of the two monoclonal preparations (Dakopatts [Glostrup, Denmark] and BioGenex Laboratories [San Ramon, Calif]), respectively. Normal brain tissue and eight astrocytomas were used as "controls" to compare staining intensity and quality between the polyclonal and monoclonal anti-GFAP antibodies. Glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity with the polyclonal antibody was more intense than that with either monoclonal antibody despite similar (congruent) distributions of tumor cell types that were stained in control brain and astrocytoma tissues. The GFAP polyclonal antibody was more frequently immunoreactive than the monoclonal antibodies, particularly in cells that exhibited chondroid differentiation. These findings may have practical application in surgical pathology. 
Use of endovascular stents in congenital heart disease. BACKGROUND. Balloon expandable intravascular stents have been used to support vessel walls in coronary and peripheral arteries in adults. The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy and safety of these stents in the treatment of congenital heart disease. METHODS AND RESULTS. Forty-five stents were placed in 30 patients, who were 0.2-30.2 years old (weight, 3.5-76 kg). Patients with areas of stenosis that were difficult to approach surgically were chosen. Stents were mounted over balloons and placed by standard catheterization techniques. Twenty-three patients had branch pulmonary artery stenosis. Thirty-six stents were placed successfully and had reduced pressure gradients from 50.6 +/- 24 to 15.9 +/- 13.4 mm Hg. Five patients had stents placed after atrial surgery: three in obstructed Fontan repairs, one at the superior vena cava-right atrial junction after sinus venous defect repair, and one at the site of a Glenn shunt. Atrial stents reduced pressure gradients from 9.8 +/- 8.2 to 2.0 +/- 2.6 mm Hg. One patient had a stent placed in the descending aorta after coarctation dilation, and the pressure gradient was reduced from 50 to 25 mm Hg. One patient had pulmonary vein dilation with stent placement. Two stents migrated at the time of placement; one required surgical removal, and one was anchored in place by balloon dilation. One patient died within 24 hours of catheterization because of thrombus obstruction of the Fontan repair. Nine patients have undergone recatheterization. All stented vessels have remained at the same caliber as at original stent placement. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that balloon expandable stents are useful in selected postoperative stenoses in congenital heart disease. 
Intracerebral hemorrhage related to cerebral amyloid angiopathy and t-PA treatment. Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) has been approved as thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, but this agent can cause serious bleeding complications including intracerebral hemorrhages. Mechanisms underlying the development of these hemorrhages have not been clarified. We report a patient who developed two intracerebral hemorrhages shortly after receiving t-PA for the treatment of an acute myocardial infarction, and who was found to have cerebral amyloid angiopathy at autopsy. Staining of cortical sections with Congo red and an antibody directed against beta amyloid protein (A4 peptide) disclosed specific involvement of most of the subarachnoid and superficial cortical vessels in the region of the two hemorrhages. Based on the findings in this patient and in 6 additional patients reported recently, it is likely that cerebral amyloid angiopathy plays a pathogenic role in some intracerebral hemorrhages associated with the administration of t-PA. The cautious use of t-PA with heparin in patients who are elderly or demented may be advisable. 
Radical prostatectomy for stage A adenocarcinoma of the prostate: staging errors and their implications for treatment recommendations and disease outcome. Of 148 patients with clinical stage A1 (32) or A2 (116) disease who had radical prostatectomy only 63% and 62%, respectively, had pathological stage A disease. Although 25% of those with clinical stage A1 and 9% of those with clinical stage A2 disease had no cancer at radical prostatectomy, 12% and 29%, respectively, had pathological stage C disease or higher. Clinical Mayo grade 1 was never associated with extracapsular disease but 60% of those with grade 3 or higher tumor did have extracapsular disease. Over-all survival was comparable to the expected survival. Clinical stage A2 cancer was associated with a significantly higher progression rate (when prostate specific antigen values were considered, p = 0.0011) and cancer death rate (p less than 0.045) than stage A1 disease, whereas pathological stage was not significantly related to disease outcome, possibly because of the use of adjuvant treatment (hormonal or radiation) for some patients with pathological stage C or higher disease. The vagaries of clinical staging associated with stage A disease, as well as the previously documented progression on long-term followup (8 to 10 years) in younger (60 years old or less) patients with stage A1 prostate cancer make radical prostatectomy with its limited morbidity an acceptable treatment choice. 
Group B streptococcal endocarditis of tricuspid valve. We report three cases of group B streptococcal endocarditis of the tricuspid valve. Two patients were intravenous drug abusers. In the literature review, and including our cases, ten patients had group B streptococcal endocarditis of the tricuspid valve. Half of the patients were intravenous drug abusers. Four of the other patients had underlying conditions. All patients were treated with a penicillin with or without an aminoglycoside. Three patients underwent tricuspid valve surgery. The overall mortality was 20 percent. Both patients who died received medical therapy only. 
Coronary artery narrowing due to extrinsic compression by myocardial abscess. A case of aortic valve endocarditis complicated by perivalvular abscess extending into myocardium is presented. Echocardiography and aortography failed to detect the abscess, but coronary angiography revealed its presence by extrinsic compression of left anterior descending and diagonal arteries. Morphological features of this rare cause for coronary narrowing are described. 
Surgical treatment of concomitant urethral diverticulum and stress incontinence. Urinary incontinence is frequently associated with a urethral diverticulum in female patients. Preoperative evaluation including a thorough history and physical examination, voiding cystourethrogram, urethroscopy, and urodynamic studies can diagnose both the urethral diverticulum and any concomitant bladder-urethral dysfunction. Preoperative recognition of stress urinary incontinence or patients at risk for this problem postoperatively permits effective treatment with concomitant transvaginal bladder neck suspension and urethral diverticulectomy. 
Treatment of chronic infected hip arthroplasty wounds by radical debridement and obliteration with pedicled and free muscle flaps. Nine patients with extensive wounds of the hip joint due to chronic infection following total hip arthroplasty or internal fixation of fractures of the femoral head and neck have been treated by serial radical debridements to remove infected bone, contaminated remnants of bone cement, and the surrounding fibrotic soft tissues. The resultant deep cavity extending down to the acetabulum has then been obliterated with either pedicled muscle flaps or free muscle flaps. Subcutaneous or transpelvic transposition of rectus abdominis muscle flaps is preferred for smaller defects, but only the free latissimus dorsi muscle flap provides sufficient volume of tissue to obliterate the more extensive hip defects. Systemic antibiotics have been continued only for a short-term course of 14 days postoperatively. There has been no recurrence of infection, with follow-up ranging between 6 months and 3 1/4 years. One patient has undergone reimplantation of a second custom hip prosthesis into the vascularized bed of a free latissimus dorsi muscle flap. 
A modified technique for obliteration of large bony defects after cystectomy. Thirteen cysts treated by enucleation followed by collapsing an osteoperiosteal flap to eliminate dead space are presented. Four of the cysts were dentigerous and nine were radicular. The bony defects ranged in size from 3 to 7 cm in greatest dimension. Healing by primary intention occurred in all cases. This method has been found to be successful in the obliteration of large bony defects after cystectomy. 
A comparative trial of the reactogenicity and immunogenicity of Takeda acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids. Outcome in 3- to 8-month-old infants, 9- to 23-month-old infants and children, and 24- to 30-month-old children. The reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the Takeda acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids were compared in 139 infants aged 3 to 8 months, 60 infants and children aged 9 to 23 months, and 99 children aged 24 to 30 months. Good antibody responses to pertussis toxin (PT), filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA), and agglutinogens occurred in all age groups after both the third and fourth doses. After the fourth (booster) dose, the mean antibody values in initially seronegative infants vaccinated at 3 to 8 months of age were as follows: anti-PT, 67.8 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units (EU) per milliliter; anti-FHA, 149.5 EU/mL; the agglutinin titer was 125.6. The values in initially seronegative children vaccinated at 24 to 30 months of age were as follows: anti-PT, 92.9 EU/mL; anti-FHA, 251.7 EU/mL; the agglutinin titer was 275.8. Reactions following immunization were minimal. Except for drowsiness after the first dose in infants, there were no clinically significant differences in reactions between infants and older children. The findings in this study coupled with the recent demonstration of efficacy of this vaccine in 2-year-old children supports the recent Japanese recommendation to lower the age of immunization with acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids to 3 months. 
Hemifacial spasm in an infant due to fourth ventricular ganglioglioma. Case report. The case of an infant is reported in which hemifacial spasm due to a ganglioglioma of the fourth ventricle was relieved by surgery. Previously described causes of hemifacial spasm are summarized, and the relevance of this case to theories on the pathogenesis of the condition is discussed. 
The influence of severity of spinal cord ischemia in the etiology of delayed-onset paraplegia. To clarify the cause of delayed-onset paraplegia, the authors evaluated the neurologic outcome after temporary (10 to 30 minutes) spinal cord ischemia in the awake rabbit. Loss of motor function occurred in less than 2 minutes in all animals. Restoration of flow within 16 minutes always resulted in full return of function, whereas with occlusion times of greater than 27 minutes all animals remained paralyzed. After temporary occlusion of 20 to 21 minutes, however, 71% of animals returned to normal neurologic function but developed delayed-onset paraplegia 14 to 48 hours later. This appears to be a reliable method for the creation of a model of delayed-onset paraplegia in the awake animal, and will facilitate more detailed studies of the pathophysiology of ischemia-induced paraplegia. 
Long-term results after lateral cranial base surgery. The surgical management of patients with slow-growing benign temporal bone neoplasms has been criticized because of its significant morbidity and mortality compared with results after radiation therapy, but long-term control by irradiation remains unproved. Long-term surgical results have not been studied previously. One hundred twenty-nine skull base operations were performed in 126 patients at the Otology Group, Nashville, Tenn., from January 1970 through May 1987. Fifty-eight patients responded to questionnaires focusing on recovery from loss of cranial nerves. All patients regained some degree of facial function (class V or better), no alimentary tubes or tracheotomies were in use, and no patients had debilitating aspiration. Long-term compensation from the cranial nerve deficits of lateral skull base surgery can be expected in most patients and should not be used as an argument for irradiation in patients with a long life expectancy at time of diagnosis. 
Gastric mucosal pH as a prognostic index of mortality in critically ill patients. OBJECTIVE: To determine if measurements of gastric intramucosal pH have prognostic implications regarding ICU mortality. DESIGN: Prospective comparison of outcome. SETTING: General adult ICUs in two teaching hospitals. PATIENTS: Eighty consecutive patients age 18 to 84 yrs (mean 63.4), 50 men and 30 women, 55% in the medical and 45% in the surgical services. METHODS: Gastric intramucosal pH was measured on ICU admission and again 12 hrs later. A value of greater than or equal to 7.35 was used to differentiate between normal and low gastric intramucosal pH. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Fifty-four patients had a normal gastric intramucosal pH and 26 patients had a low gastric intramucosal pH on ICU admission. The mortality rate was greater in the low gastric intramucosal pH group (65.4% vs. 43.6%; p less than .04). The frequency of sepsis and the presence of multisystem organ failure also were greater in the low gastric intramucosal pH group (p less than .01). Further stratification of patients according to gastric intramucosal pH measured 12 hrs after admission showed a greater mortality rate in patients with persistently low gastric intramucosal pH when compared with patients with normal gastric intramucosal pH during the first 12 hrs (86.7% vs. 26.8%; p less than .001). CONCLUSIONS: Measurements of gastric intramucosal pH on ICU admission, and again 12 hrs later, have a high specificity for predicting patient survival in this ICU patient population (77.8% to 80.6%). Furthermore, given its relative noninvasive nature, tonometrically measured gastric intramucosal pH may be a useful addition to patient monitoring in the ICU. 
Allele loss at the retinoblastoma locus in human ovarian cancer. To gain a broad spectrum on allelic loss of specific loci in ovarian tumors, we initially examined DNA from 23 pairs of ovarian tumors and matched peripheral blood lymphocyte samples from the same patients, using 27 polymorphic DNA markers distributed on 13 chromosomes. Significant high frequency of allelic deletion (22%-44%) at chromosome 13 loci (D13S31, D13S32, D13S33, and D13S34) at bands q12-q34 was observed in tumor tissues. These results led us to investigate the loss of heterozygosity at the retinoblastoma (RB) locus in ovarian tumors, because the RB gene is a tumor-suppressor gene located at 13q14. Analysis of the variable number of tandem repeat sequence polymorphism in intron 20 in the RB gene revealed that 6 (30%) of 20 patients with informative samples showed allelic loss at the RB locus in their tumor tissues. This loss, of relatively high frequency, suggests that the RB gene, or a closely linked gene, seems to be involved in the development of ovarian cancer. 
Exertional sudden death in soldiers. To address the problem of a significant rise in the incidence of exertional sudden death worldwide, the medical records and necropsy reports of all deaths that occurred in the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) during 1974-1986 were scrutinized. Twenty male soldiers, aged 18-29 yr, died suddenly and unexpectedly within 24 h of strenuous exercise. Necropsy results, available for 90% of the subjects, included underlying cardiac disease in 50% and noncardiac causes of death in 33.3%; the cause of death was unidentifiable in 16.7% of the subjects. Prodromal symptoms in 70% of the subjects are presented as a main focus of this investigation. The most frequently reported symptom was exertional or nonexertional syncope in 40% of the subjects. Chest pain, acute gastrointestinal symptoms, or febrile disease were reported in 30% of the cases. The findings of this research suggest that syncope is a major antecedent symptom of exertional sudden death. An attack of syncope in young conditioned individuals should be followed by thorough medical surveillance, and strenuous exercise should be avoided until this procedure is completed. Sports and military officials have the obligation to promote awareness that strenuous exercise should not be performed in the presence of acute gastrointestinal symptoms or febrile illness. 
Prevention of portal hypertension and portosystemic shunts by early chronic administration of clonidine in conscious portal vein-stenosed rats. The hemodynamic effects, including mesenteric-systemic shunts of early chronic administration of clonidine, were studied in conscious, unrestrained, portal vein-stenosed rats. In rats receiving early chronic clonidine (600 micrograms.kg-1.day-1 by gavage), begun 3 days before portal vein stenosis and then administered continuously for 10 consecutive days, portal pressure (10.0 +/- 1.5 mm Hg) and degree of mesenteric-systemic shunts (58% +/- 25%) were significantly lower than in the placebo group (15.2 +/- 1.5 mm Hg and 83% +/- 7%, respectively). The effects were observed either 2 to 3 hr or 18 to 24 hr after the last dose of clonidine. In rats receiving clonidine continuously for 5 days, starting 5 days after portal vein stenosis, portal pressure (11.0 +/- 1.3 mm Hg) was significantly lower than in the placebo group, but mesenteric-systemic shunts (82% +/- 8%) were not significantly different. In rats receiving a single oral dose of clonidine (600 micrograms/kg) 10 days after portal vein stenosis, portal pressure (11.8 +/- 2.1 mm Hg), measured 2 to 3 hr after clonidine administration, was significantly lower than in the placebo group. Mesenteric-systemic shunts (83% +/- 8%), however, were not significantly different from the placebo group. In addition, 18 to 24 hr after a single dose of clonidine, hemodynamic values returned to basal conditions. We also demonstrated that chronic clonidine administration begun before portal vein stenosis can reduce the initial increase in portal pressure after this procedure. We concluded that early chronic clonidine administration reduces the severity of portal hypertension and the development of portosystemic shunts in portal vein-stenosed rats. 
Cerebrospinal fluid atrial natriuretic factor in intracranial disease. We tested the hypothesis that the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid is an indicator of brain injury in patients with intracranial disease. Atrial natriuretic factor concentration was measured in 72 samples of cerebrospinal fluid from 28 patients with intraventricular drains and in nine samples from outpatient controls undergoing diagnostic lumbar puncture. Levels were correlated with diagnosis; systemic fluid administration; concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the plasma; intracranial pressure; sodium, glucose, and protein concentrations, osmolality, and cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid; sodium concentration in the serum; and hemodynamics. Atrial natriuretic factor concentration was highest in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with intracerebral hematoma, followed by those with obstructive hydrocephalus and subarachnoid hemorrhage (19 +/- 2, 13 +/- 3, and 8 +/- 2 pg/ml, respectively); atrial natriuretic factor concentration was less than 4 pg/ml in the controls. Patients treated with fluid restriction had significantly higher atrial natriuretic factor levels than those receiving maintenance or high-volume fluids (16 +/- 3, 8 +/- 2, 10 +/- 1 pg/ml, respectively). The concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the plasma was significantly elevated in patients with intracerebral hematoma and subarachnoid hemorrhage (155 +/- 38 and 92 +/- 20 pg/ml, respectively) and did not correlate with fluid administration or the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid. Neither cerebrospinal fluid nor plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor correlated with intracranial pressure; cerebrospinal fluid sodium, glucose, or protein concentrations, osmolality, or cell count; serum sodium concentration; or hemodynamics. We conclude that the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid is a nonspecific indicator of brain injury. 
Influence of exercise-induced myocardial ischemia on the pattern of left ventricular diastolic filling: a Doppler echocardiographic study Previous studies using Doppler echocardiography to evaluate left ventricular diastolic filling have shown that myocardial ischemia induced by coronary balloon angioplasty or atrial pacing results in a decrease in the left ventricular inflow peak early (E) to peak atrial (A) velocity ratio. To investigate the effects of exercise-induced ischemia on Doppler-derived filling variables, 20 patients with coronary artery disease and exercise-induced electrocardiographic changes and regional wall motion abnormalities determined by two-dimensional echocardiography were evaluated and compared with 20 patients without evidence of exercise-induced ischemia. Doppler echocardiography was performed at rest and immediately after exercise before the resolution of exercise-induced wall motion abnormalities. Peak E and A velocities increased from rest to postexercise in both the ischemic and nonischemic groups, although the ischemic group demonstrated a greater increase in peak E velocity (from 68 +/- 15 cm/s at rest to 88 +/- 22 cm/s after exercise) than the nonischemic group (70 +/- 13 to 77 +/- 18 cm/s) (p less than 0.05 for the difference in response between groups). Accompanying these changes was a slight increase in the peak E/A velocity ratio in the ischemic group (1.04 +/- 0.28 at rest to 1.13 +/- 0.42 after exercise) versus a decrease in the nonischemic group (1.07 +/- 0.30 to 0.90 +/- 0.28) (p less than 0.05 intergroup difference). 
Long-term consequences of CNS treatment for childhood cancer, Part I: Pathologic consequences and potential for oncogenesis. The pathologic changes associated with the treatment of cancer of the nervous system are reviewed. Computed tomographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomographic findings of these abnormalities are described, followed by discussion of the known histopathologic features. For the most part, pathologic effects are primary vascular and/or demyelinating. We review each of these effects at all levels of the neural axis. This review concludes with a discussion of the risk of developing second malignancies. Although this complication is infrequent, the likelihood that survivors of childhood cancer will develop a second malignancy is 10 times that of age-matched controls. This phenomenon in part relates to genetic predisposition, environmental factors, and host susceptibility. These qualifications not withstanding, most studies implicate central nervous system radiation with and without chemotherapy as the primary etiology for second malignancies. 
Lymphomatous presentation of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A subgroup at high risk of early treatment failure. Multivariate analyses of the clinical course of 1537 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) identified a subgroup which experienced short remission duration and a high incidence of extramedullary relapse. The patients differed from other ALL patients by the presence at diagnosis of two or more of a constellation of clinical and laboratory features: organomegaly or mass disease, E-rosette positivity, hemoglobin level greater than 10 g/dl, leukocyte count greater than 50,000/microliters, male predominance, and older age. This type of presentation of ALL is referred to as the "lymphoma syndrome" (LS) since such patients exhibit a pattern of several clinical and laboratory features which were observed repeatedly but in differing combinations, and some of which clinically resemble lymphoma. A subsequent database from 2231 patients was analyzed. Patients with a mediastinal mass, massive splenomegaly, or massive adenopathy, alone or in combination, had a worse outcome when the patient also had either leukocytosis, E-rosette-positive lymphoblasts, or a normal or near normal hemoglobin (Hb) level at diagnosis. Similarly, the above three laboratory features alone or in combination did not predict less than 40% disease-free survival (DFS) unless they were accompanied by at least one of the clinical features of mass disease. When at least one clinical feature and at least one laboratory feature were present, the overall DFS was 36% 6 years after diagnosis versus 64% for all other patients. The association of these features with poor prognosis remained significant after adjusting for the level of leukocyte count at diagnosis, age at diagnosis, and sex of the patients. Patients with this recurrent syndrome of features do not represent a homogeneous biologic entity but they constitute a subgroup of patients with ALL having a high risk of treatment failure using current therapies, including failure to achieve remission, early relapse, and increased frequency of relapse in extramedullary sites. They deserve early recognition at diagnosis and selection of treatment strategies appropriate for very high risk ALL. 
Intraoperative use of a 2-mm choledochoscope for the exploration of small bile ducts and the pancreatic duct. Intraoperative visualization of the biliary and pancreatic ducts can be difficult in a nondilated system. Very small extra- and intrahepatic bile ducts occasionally require visualization but do not admit the traditional 6.5-mm intraoperative flexible choledochoscope. We have prospectively examined the use of a 2-mm choledochoscope for the intraoperative evaluation of the biliary and pancreatic ducts in 36 patients. In 27 patients, the choledochoscope was advanced through the cystic duct stump for examination of the common bile duct following cholangiography. The scope was successfully passed into the cystic duct stump and into the common bile duct in 76 per cent of patients. Inability to pass the scope through the cystic duct was usually due to acute angulation of the cystic duct/common duct junction. In an additional five patients, intraoperative cholangiography revealed a filling defect in a very small duct. A choledochotomy was made and the 2-mm choledochoscope was used to exclude the presence of stones in a small bile duct. In four patients the choledochoscope was used during a Puestow procedure to visualize and help extract stones in the tail and head of the gland. No complications occurred in these patients due to the use of the choledochoscope. We conclude that the 2-mm choledochoscope aids in internal visualization of small intra- and extrahepatic bile ducts and the pancreatic duct. It may be useful as an adjunct to cholangiography in determining the nature of filling defects. 
AAEM case report #21: hemifacial spasm: preoperative diagnosis and intraoperative management. A 75-year-old man developed progressive involuntary hemifacial spasm. Electrophysiologic evidence of abnormal cross-transmission between neurons of the facial nerve was demonstrated. Electrodiagnostic studies were used to confirm the diagnosis preoperatively and determine the adequacy of vascular decompression of the facial nerve intraoperatively. 
Generation and cloning of stable human IgE-secreting cells that have rearranged the C epsilon gene. Although the secretion of Ig isotypes other than IgM is generally accompanied by a DNA rearrangement that deletes C mu (and the other IgCH genes located between VDJ and the expressed CH gene), a system has recently been described that generates a high frequency of IgE-secreting cells that have failed to delete IgCH genes or to rearrange their C epsilon genes. These cells, derived from EBV-transformed human PBMC, secrete IgM and IgD as well as IgE. To determine whether the absence of C epsilon rearrangement and CH gene deletion is a general phenomenon for human IgE-secreting cells, we have characterized IgE-secreting cells that are generated by culturing purified human B cells with EBV plus IL-4 in the presence of irradiated human PBMC. In contrast to the earlier observation, we have not been able to detect any cells that demonstrate cytoplasmic staining for IgE and concurrently stain for a second Ig isotype. Stable IgE-secreting cell lines and clones produced by this method have rearranged one of their C epsilon genes and have deleted both C mu genes. These observations demonstrate that the generation of human IgE-secreting cells can involve the same gene rearrangement and deletional mechanisms that lead to the generation of cells that secrete other isotypes. 
Lower-extremity vascular grafts placed for peripheral vascular disease: prospective evaluation with duplex Doppler sonography. Eighty-five men with 92 vascular grafts placed for peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremity underwent a total of 264 examinations with duplex Doppler over a 2.5-year period. In 64 patients who underwent more than one examination, the total follow-up encompassed 740 months. In 220 native femoral arteries (96.0%) the peak systolic velocity (PSV) was higher than that in the graft. Arteriovenous shunting was associated with a normal PSV and a markedly elevated diastolic component at spectral analysis. Focal fluid collections were common initially near the graft and usually disappeared uneventfully. An average PSV of 32 cm/sec or less was always associated with impending occlusion. The sensitivity of an average PSV of 40 cm/sec or less to indicate impending graft occlusion by the next visit was only 33%; the specificity, 94%. At initial examination, stenoses were associated with high PSV focally in the graft or low PSV with absent diastolic flow. 
The role of family structure, functioning, and pain modeling in headache. In an initial attempt to examine relationships between family functioning and chronic headache disorders, the present study examined: a) family structure characteristics, b) family functioning, and c) family pain modeling. Subjects completed an assessment battery consisting of several measures of family functioning. Analyses showed that migraine sufferers (N = 42) as compared to headache-free controls (N = 59) were more likely to describe their families as emphasizing clear organization, structure, rules, and overall control, but less likely to encourage emotional expression. No differences were found between tension headache subjects (N = 43) and headache-free controls. While only an initial exploration of the importance of family characteristics in chronic headache, these results suggest that there are important differences in headache subjects' (particularly migraine) reports of family environment and functioning. 
Community cancer programs as strategic alliances: challenges and guidelines for action. This paper assesses the utility of strategic alliances as a way of expanding and improving the quality of cancer care provided in communities with limited access to major treatment centres. Alliances provide an organizational model for future community-based cancer programs by accommodating a growing need for interdependence among organizations and providers while permitting substantial independence and autonomy. Five managerial challenges to ensuring effective and efficient delivery of cancer services are identified: to secure mutually reinforcing exchanges between and within all levels of cancer care, to develop protocols and programs relevant to the unique characteristics of patients and providers, to provide treatment and cancer control services, to involve interdisciplinary teams of providers at all levels of care and to achieve quality assurance, improvement and evaluation. In addition, the paper includes a set of guidelines to facilitate the implementation of community cancer programs as strategic alliances: reaffirm the role of community oncologists, primary care physicians and nurses as partners in the program; define the structure and culture necessary for commitment rather than simply compliance; redefine the role of management; establish data-monitoring systems; modify reward systems; and set realistic time frames and expectations. 
Abdominal CT findings after liver transplantation in 66 patients. CT scanning is used frequently to assess the condition of patients after liver transplantation. The CT records of 174 adult patients who underwent liver transplantation were studied retrospectively to determine the number and timing of CT studies as well as the frequency and significance of the findings. One-hundred seventy CT scans were obtained in 66 (38%) of the 174 patients, with a mean of 2.6 scans/patient. The interval between transplantation and scanning was 1 day to 24 months; in 59 (89%) of 66 patients, the first CT scan was obtained within 30 days. The acute indications for CT scanning were fever or leukocytosis in 54 (92%) of 59 patients and abnormal liver function tests in five (8%) of 59 patients. CT scans obtained more than 30 days after transplantation were repeat scans in all but seven patients. Indications in this latter group were the same as for the acute group, plus evaluation of hepatic neoplasia in three patients. CT findings included periportal low attenuation in 41 (62%) of 66 patients; ascites in 25 (38%); splenomegaly in 19 (29%); loculated intraperitoneal noninfected fluid collections in 13 (20%); intrahepatic, splenic, pancreatic, or perihepatic abscesses in seven (11%); hepatic infarction in six (9%); splenic infarction in three (4%); and hepatic calcification in two (3%). Other major abnormalities included inferior vena caval thrombosis (one patient), pseudoaneurysm of the hepatic artery with rupture (one patient), and recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma (one patient). CT scanning after liver transplantation is used predominantly in the acute setting to evaluate for liver infarction or intraabdominal abscess. In this setting, CT showed these abnormalities, in addition to tumor recurrence or vascular abnormalities, in 15 (23%) of 66 patients. 
Comparison of allografts and prosthetic valves when used for emergency aortic valve replacement for active infective endocarditis. Aortic valve replacement (AVR) using allografts is an established method of treating aortic valve disease. It is uncertain, however, whether the increased technical demands of allograft AVR can be justified in emergency operations. This study reports 15 patients treated between 1987 and 1990 for acute bacterial or fungal endocarditis involving the aortic valve. Patients underwent emergency AVR because of severe congestive failure, overwhelming sepsis or cerebral emboli. Eight patients received prosthetic valves (group I: 4 mechanical, 4 porcine) and 7 received human allografts (group II: 5 aortic and 2 pulmonary). The groups were comparable in age (group I, 55 years; group II, 51 years), intravenous drug abuse (group I, 1; group II, 3), and previous AVR (group I, 3; group II, 2). One group I and 4 group II patients had septal abscesses. Additional procedures in group I included mitral valve replacement (2), tricuspid valve replacement (1) and aortic root replacement (1). Additional procedures in group II were mitral valve repair (1), root replacement (1), atrial septal defect closure (1) and aortocoronary bypass (1). Mean bypass times (group I, 189 minutes; group II, 204 minutes) and cross-clamp times (group I; 108 minutes; group II, 121 minutes) were similar. Operative deaths occurred in 4 of 8 group I and 1 of 7 group II patients. All surviving patients have been successfully followed (group I, 28 months; group II, 18 months). No group I patient has required reoperation. One group II patients required reoperation for recurrent infection affecting the allograft, and another group II patient died 10 months postoperatively from noncardiac causes. 
Hearing aid prescribing: is the specialist opinion necessary? A restructuring of the service for provision of hearing aids has been proposed by the Royal National Institute for the Deaf. This is based on the assumption that very few patients referred for hearing aids have significant ear disease and it is not necessary for them to see an ENT specialist. The case notes of 200 consecutive patients referred to the Hearing Aid clinic were reviewed. In only half of these would a hearing aid have been prescribed without a specialist opinion. The remainder either did not need a hearing aid or required further investigation and surgical or medical treatment. In addition there was significant evidence of lack of expertise amongst General Practitioners in recognizing ear disorders. It is imperative that any patient requiring a hearing aid be seen by someone experienced in otology rather than be dealt with by the General Practitioner alone. 
Flow cytometric determination of the multidrug resistant phenotype in transitional cell cancer of the bladder: implications and applications. We detail our experience with a monoclonal antibody to detect the cell surface P-glycoprotein product of the multidrug resistance gene (MDR-1) in the human bladder. A total of 32 patients had 44 different specimens analyzed. The samples consisted of 8 normal bladders, 21 transitional cell carcinomas, 1 mucinous adenocarcinoma, 3 P-0 bladder wall specimens and 10 nonmalignant urothelial samples from cystectomies. P-glycoprotein was not detected in the normal adult or pediatric bladder. Bladder specimens from 3 children with a neurogenic bladder revealed enhanced expression (21%, 14% and 4% positivity). Transitional cell carcinoma usually demonstrates low expression at diagnosis (less than 6%), although 3 patients had enhanced initial expression (11%, 12% and 31%). Three patients treated with chemotherapy demonstrated 56%, 76% and 50% expression of MDR-1. Nonmalignant tissue from cystectomy specimens had low expression of MDR-1. The specificity of this system was confirmed with human bladder cell lines. The ability of flow cytometry to detect and quantify the expression of MDR-1 may allow for the early detection of chemotherapy resistance in patients with transitional cell carcinoma treated with systemic and intravesical therapy. 
Administration of sucralfate prolongs survival of animals with experimental peptic ulceration. Ligation of the pig bile duct (BDL) results in 100% incidence of pars esophageal ulceration within 48 hours of the procedure. Usually such ulceration is uniformly fatal unless a highly selective vagotomy is performed simultaneously with the BDL. The administration of sucralfate to pigs with BDL prolonged their survival for up to 7 days, with evidence of healing of the ulcer on macroscopic and histologic observations. An increase in cell proliferation in the squamous epithelium of the ulcerated area was also seen in this sucralfate group. These features were not seen in controls, pigs with BDL only, or pigs with BDL and with magaldrate (Riopone), colloidal bismuth subcitrate (DeNol), or carbenoxolone. Analysis by Sepharose 2B gel filtration showed that there was no significant difference in the amounts of polymeric mucin in any group, with a wide scatter of the data seen especially for pigs in the untreated BDL-only group. This study suggests that sucralfate may enhance healing in this experimental pig ulcer model via a mechanism independent of the stimulation of mucus secretion. We propose that coating the mucosa with sucralfate provides a temporary substitute barrier that creates a microenvironment conducive to wound repair by mucosal proliferation. 
Impact of variability among surgeons on postoperative morbidity and mortality and ultimate survival. OBJECTIVE--To assess the differences among surgeons in postoperative complications, postoperative mortality, and survival in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. DESIGN--Prospective study of patients with colorectal cancer managed by one of 13 consultant surgeons, none of whom had a special interest in colorectal surgery. SETTING--Royal Infirmary, Glasgow. PATIENTS--645 sequential patients with colorectal cancer presenting over the six years from 1974 to 1979. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Postoperative complications, postoperative mortality (within 30 days), and survival (up to 10 years); predictive factors for postoperative mortality and survival; and relative hazard rate ratios for individual surgeons. RESULTS--The proportion of patients undergoing apparently curative resection varied among surgeons from 40% to 76%; overall postoperative mortality varied from 8% to 30%. After curative resection postoperative mortality varied from 0% to 20%, local recurrence from 0% to 21%, and the rate of anastomotic leak from 0% to 25%. Survival at 10 years in patients who underwent curative resection varied from 20% to 63%, two year survival in those who underwent palliative resection varied from 7% to 32%, and median survival in those who underwent palliative diversion varied from one to eight months. The hazard rate ratios among individual surgeons, taking into account the identified risk factors, varied from 0.56 to 2.03, from 0.17 to 1.92, and from 0.57 to 1.50 for curative resection, palliative resection, and palliative diversion, respectively. CONCLUSION--There were significant variations in patient outcome among surgeons after surgery for colorectal cancer; such differences compromise survival. A considerable improvement in overall survival might be achieved if such surgery were undertaken by surgeons with a special interest in colorectal surgery or surgical oncology. 
Coronary occlusion following diagnostic angiography: salvage by intracoronary stenting. Catheter-induced coronary artery dissection and occlusion is a rare but serious complication of diagnostic cardiac angiography. This report describes the successful management of this complication with an intracoronary stent after prolonged balloon inflations and intracoronary thrombolytic therapy were unsuccessful. 
Trace elements and plasmapheresis. The relationship between serum aluminum (Al), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), and iron (Fe) and plasmapheresis (PP) treatment was examined. Three patients with rheumatoid arthritis, six with myasthenia gravis, and 6 with multiple sclerosis were studied. Serum Al, Zn, Cu, and Fe were measured before and after PP. Plasma was separated by first filtration; a second filtration separated the plasma components. Three liters of plasma were treated in each PP session. With each PP treatment, total protein (TP) removed was 20 +/- 5% and serum albumin removed was +/- 6%. Serum Al rose significantly (p less than 0.01 from 1.1 +/- 0.2 micrograms/dl pre-PP to 2.8 +/- 0.4 micrograms/dl post-PP. Serum Zn, Cu, and Fe decreased significantly (p less than 0.01) from 86.2 +/- 7.4 micrograms/dl, 126 +/- 18 micrograms/dl, and 108 +/- 14 micrograms/dl pre-PP to 58.4 +/- 10.2 micrograms/dl, 104 +/- 6 micrograms/dl, and 82 +/- 16 micrograms/dl post-PP, respectively. Two days after the end of the six-month PP treatment, serum Al levels rose significantly (p less than 0.01), from 1.1 +/- 0.2 micrograms/dl to 3.6 +/- 0.8 micrograms/dl. However, serum TP, serum albumin, and serum Zn, Cu, and Fe did not change significantly. It thus appears essential in PP treated patients, to remove Al from the blood to protect against aluminum intoxication. 
Analysis of the transition to percutaneous placement of Greenfield filters. To establish whether a transition from surgical to percutaneous placement of Greenfield filters was justified, a review of the safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of the two approaches was conducted. Between 1984 and 1989, 168 filters were placed in 169 patients, 48 surgically and 120 percutaneously. Placement was successful in 45 (94%) of the 48 surgical patients and 120 (99%) of the 121 percutaneous patients. Filter misplacement occurred in three (6%) surgical patients and no percutaneous patients. Clinically evident femoral vein thrombosis occurred in only four (5%) of the percutaneous patients, while inferior vena cava thrombosis occurred in three (3%) of the percutaneous patients. One pulmonary embolus occurred after percutaneous filter placement and resulted in death. The cost of percutaneous placement was 58% that of surgical placement. A retrospective review of the experience in our patient population indicates that safety, cost, and ease of insertion make the percutaneous approach the procedure of choice for Greenfield filter placement. 
Chronic myeloid leukemia in a woman with Still's disease treated with 198Au synoviorthesis. A 32-year-old woman presented with chronic myeloid leukemia 20 years after 2 198Au synoviortheses to her knees for severe juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. She progressed to blast phase of her disease and died from complications of therapy. The literature on rheumatoid arthritis, its therapy, radioisotopes and leukemia is reviewed. 
K-edge digital subtraction arthrography of the painful hip prosthesis: a feasibility study. K-edge energy subtraction radiography is a method for detecting the presence of iodinated contrast material by subtracting two digital radiographs produced by X-ray beams with energies above and below the iodine K edge. We performed a feasibility study on the application of K-edge energy digital subtraction arthrography (KEDSA) to painful hip prostheses. During arthrography, loosening of the prosthesis is implied if contrast material is seen dissecting around the prosthesis, an often difficult detection task because of adjacent prosthesis metal or cement. In conventional arthrography a preliminary mask image is thus used from which films obtained after injection of iodinated contrast material are subtracted. Movement by the patient during this process may preclude subsequent subtraction. With KEDSA, since multiple image pairs may be obtained after the injection of contrast material, the problem of patient motion is virtually eliminated. A conventional X-ray tube operating between 55 and 65 kVp was alternately filtered by iodine and cerium filters to produce the KEDSA images. The apparatus was capable of producing a subtracted image within 3 sec. The technique was applied to phantoms and to six patients immediately after hip arthrography that had been positive for prosthesis loosening. Although of lower spatial resolution, the KEDSA images were, in all cases, positive for loosening in a pattern consistent with the conventional arthrographic images. KEDSA was shown to be successful in detecting extraarticular contrast material. During a single study, subtraction in various imaging planes as well as postexercise subtraction imaging can be accomplished-techniques not heretofore possible in routine subtraction arthrography. 
Twelve-lead electrocardiographic evaluation of ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and its correlation with acute reocclusion. The sensitivity of the surface 12-lead electrocardiogram and that of standard (limb-lead) monitoring for the detection of ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were compared in 115 patients. The purpose was to identify the electrocardiographic leads that provide the most sensitive indicators of coronary ischemia during percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty and to evaluate the "ischemic fingerprint" that is obtained with 12-lead electrocardiogram during balloon inflation as a predictor of abrupt reocclusion after successful percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty procedures. During balloon inflations of 30 seconds, ischemia was detected in 61 of 145 vessels (42%) by limb-lead monitoring alone versus 130 of 145 vessels (90%) by 12-lead electrocardiography (p less than or equal to 0.001). In the nine patients (7.8%) who experienced abrupt reocclusion within 24 hours, the electrocardiogram during chest pain after percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty was identical to that obtained during percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty ("ischemic fingerprint"). None of the six patients who had chest pain after percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty without evidence of abrupt reocclusion reproduced their ischemic fingerprint. The suggested optimal leads for monitoring ischemia are as follows: left anterior descending coronary artery, V2, and V3; circumflex artery, V2, and V3; and right coronary artery, III and aVF. 
Adenoma of type 2 pneumocytes with oncocytic features. An adenoma of type 2 pneumocytes in the periphery of the left lung was an incidental finding at the autopsy of a 28-year-old woman. Light microscopy revealed a predominantly papillary growth with oncocytic features. Ultrastructurally, multilaminated bodies and many mitochondria were found in the tumor cells and tubular myelin in the extracellular spaces. Immunohistochemistry revealed surfactant apoprotein in tumor cells and extracellularly. 
Vasovagal asystole during spinal anaesthesia. A patient in whom vasovagal asystole was induced by the performance of a spinal anaesthetic in the upright position is described. This illustrates the importance of routine monitoring of the electrocardiograph during regional anaesthesia. The risk of vasovagal syncope may be increased by the use of the sitting position and by the omission of anxiolytic premedication. 
Motor initiation versus execution in normal and Parkinson's disease subjects. We studied motor initiation and execution using wrist extension movements to changing target locations in eight normal subjects and nine Parkinson's disease (PD) patients before and after medications. Late changes resulted in double trajectories, indicating commitment to the initial target acquisition program followed by a correcting movement. There was compensation for earlier changes, even after onset of agonist muscle activity, resulting in a single trajectory, implying that the original trajectory had not yet been specified. However, movements were slowed in PD patients implying an abnormality in the content of the target acquisition program but not in the timing of its specification. In PD patients, the timing of the second movement onset correlated best with the timing of target location change and did not depend on initial movement completion. Thus, PD patients were able to program the second movement while the first movement was under way. 
Sonoelasticity imaging: results in in vitro tissue specimens. The authors present a method for imaging tissue stiffness (sonoelasticity) that has been developed and tested in a laboratory setting by using in vitro canine and human prostate glands. A low-frequency acoustic source was used to induce vibration in tissue under examination, and a color Doppler ultrasound (US) instrument was modified to detect vibration amplitude. The resulting image is a color "map" of tissue vibration superimposed on conventional gray-scale US images. Stiffer tissues vibrated less in response to audible sound, regardless of echogenicity. Normal human and canine prostate glands demonstrated a uniform vibration pattern. Four of four human prostatic adenocarcinomas and two stiff inclusions injected into canine prostate glands demonstrated a lack of vibration in comparison with normal surrounding tissue. The authors conclude that while further study is necessary, sonoelasticity imaging may enhance the detection of neoplasms by enabling their identification solely on the basis of stiffness. 
Prognostic factors associated with recurrence in clinical stage I adenocarcinoma of the endometrium. Two hundred sixty-four consecutive patients with clinical stage I endometrial adenocarcinoma who underwent primary surgical therapy between July 1979 and August 1988 were followed prospectively and evaluated for disease recurrence for 8-112 months (mean 51.5). Thirty-three patients (12.5%) developed recurrence or died of disease. In univariate statistical analysis, prognostic factors significantly associated with disease recurrence were as follows: age (mean 68.6 years with versus 60.3 years without recurrence; P = .0001); histology (adenocarcinoma 8.8%, adenosquamous 35.7%, papillary 25%, clear-cell 57.1%; P less than .0001); tumor grade (grade 1, 7.7%, grade 2, 10.5%, grade 3, 36.1%; P less than .0001); depth of myometrial invasion (none 9.8%, less than one-half 7.4%, one-half or greater 29.6%; P = .0001); lymph node status (negative 8.3%, positive 47.6%; P less than .0001); non-nodal extrauterine disease spread (absent 11.0%, present 50%; P = .0003); peritoneal cytology (negative 9.4%, positive 26.3%; P = .004), and tumor size (2 cm or less 7%, greater than 2 cm 17.3%; P = .05). Cervical extension and uterine size had no significant effect on recurrence. Using multivariate analysis, grade 3 tumor (P = .002), advancing age (P = .004), lymph node metastasis (P = .006), and presence of extrauterine disease spread other than lymph node metastasis (P = .038) were the only variables significantly associated with disease recurrence or death. This study supports the new International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics surgical staging system for endometrial cancer. 
Preoperative and postoperative "aneurysm" associated with coarctation of the aorta. The reported incidence of aortic aneurysm after surgical repair or balloon angioplasty for aortic coarctation varies widely. To determine the incidence of aneurysm formation after surgery, preoperative and postoperative cineangiograms from 65 patients who underwent operation at age 1.5 +/- 3.4 years were examined. Repair included a prosthetic patch in 14 patients, end to end anastomosis in 28 and subclavian flap in 23. Aneurysm was documented by change in contour or irregularities in contour at the repair site or by abnormal dimensions at the repair site, defined by the ratio of the widest measurement at the repair site to the measurement of the aorta at the diaphragm. An aneurysmal bulge above the ductus diverticulum was identified in 14 (23%) of 60 patients preoperatively; the area showed no change 4.72 +/- 4.07 years after surgery. Significant changes at the repair site were seen in only three patients, all of whom had Dacron patch repair. One patient had a change in contour at the repair site, one had an abnormally high repair site to diaphragmatic aorta ratio and one had a progressive increase in this ratio. Thus, during childhood years, 3 (5%) of 65 patients were diagnosed as having aneurysm at the surgical repair site. In conclusion, 1) comparison with preoperative cineangiograms, especially for aneurysmal bulges above the ductus arteriosus, is essential before an aneurysm can be attributed to coarctation repair by any technique, and 2) aneurysm developed only in patients subjected to Dacron patch repair. 
Ki-1-positive lymphoma developing 10 years after the diagnosis of hairy cell leukemia. The case is described of a 62-year-old man with a 10-year history of hairy cell leukemia (HCL) who subsequently had a large-cell anaplastic or so-called Ki-1-positive lymphoma. Immunocytochemical staining of the lymphomatous node revealed positivity for Ki-1 (CD30) and epithelial membrane antigen in the tumor cells, and flow cytometric analysis showed simultaneous expression of Leu M5 (CD11c) and Leu 14 (CD22). Although HCL has been reported to coexist with both Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, the authors believe this is the first case in which a Ki-1-positive lymphoma developed in a patient with HCL. The clinicopathologic and immunologic features of both entities are discussed, as is the association of HCL with other neoplasms. 
Evaluation of a new weaning index based on ventilatory endurance and the efficiency of gas exchange. We hypothesized that the ventilatory capacity needed to wean from mechanical ventilation (mv) depends on two variables: ventilatory endurance and the efficiency of gas exchange. We also hypothesized that these variables could be assessed from data readily available at the bedside, including tidal volume (VT) on mv and during spontaneous breathing (sb), ventilator peak inspiratory pressure (Ppk), and patient negative inspiratory pressure (NIP). Ventilatory endurance was evaluated using a modified pressure-time index: PTI = TI/Ttot x Pbreath/NIP, where Pbreath = Ppk x VTsb/VTmv. Defining VE40 as the minute ventilation needed to bring PaCO2 to 40 mm Hg, the efficiency of gas exchange was evaluated by calculating VE40/VTsb = (VE x PaCO2)mv/VTsb x 40. Because high levels of inspiratory effort might cause patients to reduce VTsb and thereby compromise CO2 elimination, we devised a weaning index (WI) that combines ventilatory endurance and the efficiency of gas exchange: WI = PTI x (VE40/VTsb). The study population comprised 38 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, adult respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, neuromuscular disease, and miscellaneous other conditions. They had been mechanically ventilated more than 3 days and were considered by clinical criteria to be ready for weaning. Of 46 weaning trials, 19 were successful, 2 were partially successful, and 25 failed. PTI and VE40/VTsb were higher in patients who failed (p less than 0.05), but neither variable alone had sufficient sensitivity or specificity to predict the outcome of weaning trials accurately. 
Symptoms associated with tamoxifen treatment in postmenopausal women. Adjuvant breast cancer therapy with tamoxifen is associated with greater disease-free survival and possibly overall survival. Long-term treatment, possibly of indefinite duration, is being evaluated. Compliance with long-term therapy will depend largely on the nature and severity of tamoxifen's side effects. We evaluated the symptoms associated with tamoxifen therapy in 140 postmenopausal women with axillary node negative breast cancer in remission (mean years since menopause, 9.3) enrolled in a placebo-controlled, randomized toxicity study. Tamoxifen recipients reported moderated or severe vasomotor symptoms up to 17%, and gynecologic symptoms up to 4% more frequently than placebo subjects. Persistent vasomotor, gynecologic, or other major side effects were reported by 48% of tamoxifen recipients, and by 21% of placebo subjects. These carefully collected data suggest significant perceived symptom 'cost' of tamoxifen therapy in postmenopausal women, of a magnitude likely to compromise long-term compliance. 
Nephrotoxic potential of Bence Jones proteins BACKGROUND. The renal manifestations of diseases associated with the production of monoclonal light chains--myeloma (cast) nephropathy, light-chain deposition disease, and amyloidosis AL--result from the deposition of certain Bence Jones proteins as tubular casts, basement-membrane precipitates, or fibrils, respectively. For unknown reasons, the severity of the renal manifestations of these diseases varies greatly from patient to patient. We employed an experimental in vivo model to determine the pathologic importance of various Bence Jones proteins. METHODS. Mice were injected intraperitoneally with 300 mg of Bence Jones protein from 40 patients with multiple myeloma or amyloidosis AL and killed 48 hours later. The mouse kidneys were examined by light and electron microscopy, and light-chain deposits were identified immunohistochemically with highly specific antihuman light-chain antiserum. RESULTS. Of the 40 different human Bence Jones proteins studied, 26 were deposited in the mouse kidneys predominantly as tubular casts, basement-membrane precipitates, or crystals; no light-chain deposits were detected in the kidneys of the mice that received the other 14 Bence Jones proteins. Of the 18 patients for whom renal tissue was available for study, the findings in 14 were comparable to those in the mice. Furthermore, the proteins obtained from 22 of the 27 patients whose serum creatinine concentrations equaled or exceeded 168 mumol per liter (1.9 mg per deciliter) were deposited in the mouse kidneys, whereas protein deposition occurred after the injection of proteins from only 4 of the 13 patients with serum creatinine concentrations below 168 mumol per liter. The repeated injection of Bence Jones proteins from two patients who had amyloidosis AL resulted in deposition of the protein in the mouse kidneys as amyloid. CONCLUSIONS. Particular Bence Jones proteins are primarily responsible for producing the distinctive types of protein deposition in renal tissue and the clinical manifestations that occur in patients with light-chain-associated diseases. This experimental model has potential value for the identification of nephrotoxic or amyloidogenic light chains. 
Level of axillary involvement by lymph node metastases from breast cancer is not an independent predictor of survival. We examined the relationship of axillary level of lymph node metastases from clinical stage I and II breast cancer to overall survival and disease-free survival rates in 135 patients who underwent complete axillary lymph node dissection to determine if anatomic level of axillary involvement (I vs II vs III) is an independent prognostic factor. All patients underwent either modified radical mastectomy or lumpectomy with axillary dissection and whole breast radiotherapy for breast cancer. Median follow-up was 6.9 years. We found no difference in overall survival or disease-free survival between patients whose highest or only level of axillary involvement was level I compared with patients whose highest or only level was II. Although patients whose highest level of nodal involvement was III had significantly worse overall survival and disease-free survival rates than patients whose highest nodal involvement was I or II, when patients were stratified by the total number of positive nodes (one to three vs four or more), there was no difference in overall survival or disease-free survival rates between levels I, II, and III. These findings indicate that the level of axillary involvement for stage II breast cancer is not of independent prognostic significance. 
In situ venous valve construction. A technique of in situ deep venous valve construction based on vein wall intussusception is described. The technique has been used to construct a size-matched, autogenous valve in the femoral vein of the dog. Forty-one valves have been constructed. Immediately after construction, all 41 were patent at ascending phlebography and Harvey's test showed them to be competent. Descending phlebography demonstrated competence in 38 valves. Hydrostatic testing was performed on 27 valves in the vertical position at pressure gradients in the range 0.2-250 cmH2O. Of these, 24 valves were fully competent. Six valves were studied at intervals between 1 and 112 days after construction. All six were competent by Harvey's test and five were competent at descending phlebography. There was no evidence of thrombosis in any valve. This technique may be suitable for replacement of deep venous valves in patients with the calf pump failure syndrome caused by deep venous reflux. 
Prognostic importance of collateral flow and residual coronary stenosis of the myocardial infarct artery after anterior wall Q-wave acute myocardial infarction. Residual high-grade coronary stenosis and collateral flow are frequent findings in the chronic phase after a Q-wave acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The prognostic importance of a residual stenosis of the infarct artery and of collateral flow to the infarct area was analyzed in a group of 102 young patients (mean age 35 years, range 22 to 39) who had survived an anterior wall Q-wave AMI. Patients whose only significant lesion (greater than 50% luminal diameter reduction) was in the proximal portion of the left anterior descending artery were enrolled in the study. A 50 to 74% diameter stenosis was present in 33 of 102 patients (32%), 43 (42%) had a 75 to 99% stenosis and 26% had a total occlusion of the infarct vessel. Collateral vessels, which were evaluated by a scoring system, were present in 52 of 102 patients (51%). Four percent had only faint (score 1), 17 of 102 patients (17%) had moderate and 32 patients (31%) had good collateral flow (score greater than 4). The 8-year cumulative mortality was 15.2%--an eightfold increase compared with the age-matched general population. No patient with less than 75% stenosis died during follow-up, whereas the cumulative 8-year mortality was 23 and 17% in patients with a 75 to 99% stenosis or total occlusion, respectively (p less than 0.01). Patients with at least moderate collateral flow had a mortality rate of 21%, versus 8% for patients without or with faint collateral flow (p less than 0.05). 
The recognition and control of occupational disease. Occupational diseases account each year in the United States for an estimated 50,000 to 70,000 deaths and 350,000 new cases of illness. Often, however, occupational diseases are not correctly diagnosed, because they mimic diseases due to other causes and because most physicians are not well trained in their recognition. Opportunities for prevention and treatment are therefore lost. The occupational history is the most effective means for proper diagnosis of occupational illness. It should routinely be obtained for every patient. A brief but systematic guide for obtaining an occupational history is presented in this report. Also, approaches are summarized for the recognition and diagnosis of such important occupational diseases as occupational cancer, asbestosis and other respiratory disorders, and occupational neuropsychologic disorders. The management and prevention of occupational diseases depend on reduction of hazardous exposures in the workplace and better education of workers, industrial managers, and physicians. This report outlines a program for the control of occupational disease based on (1) preventing exposures in the workplace, (2) premarket toxicity testing of new chemicals and technologies, and (3) astute clinical diagnosis. 
Beneficial effect of carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with high-grade carotid stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators BACKGROUND. Without strong evidence of benefit, the use of carotid endarterectomy for prophylaxis against stroke rose dramatically until the mid-1980s, then declined. Our investigation sought to determine whether carotid endarterectomy reduces the risk of stroke among patients with a recent adverse cerebrovascular event and ipsilateral carotid stenosis. METHODS. We conducted a randomized trial at 50 clinical centers throughout the United States and Canada, in patients in two predetermined strata based on the severity of carotid stenosis--30 to 69 percent and 70 to 99 percent. We report here the results in the 659 patients in the latter stratum, who had had a hemispheric or retinal transient ischemic attack or a nondisabling stroke within the 120 days before entry and had stenosis of 70 to 99 percent in the symptomatic carotid artery. All patients received optimal medical care, including antiplatelet therapy. Those assigned to surgical treatment underwent carotid endarterectomy performed by neurosurgeons or vascular surgeons. All patients were examined by neurologists 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after entry and then every 4 months. End points were assessed by blinded, independent case review. No patient was lost to follow-up. RESULTS. Life-table estimates of the cumulative risk of any ipsilateral stroke at two years were 26 percent in the 331 medical patients and 9 percent in the 328 surgical patients--an absolute risk reduction (+/- SE) 17 +/- 3.5 percent (P less than 0.001). For a major or fatal ipsilateral stroke, the corresponding estimates were 13.1 percent and 2.5 percent--an absolute risk reduction of 10.6 +/- 2.6 percent (P less than 0.001). Carotid endarterectomy was still found to be beneficial when all strokes and deaths were included in the analysis (P less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. Carotid endarterectomy is highly beneficial to patients with recent hemispheric and retinal transient ischemic attacks or nondisabling strokes and ipsilateral high-grade stenosis (70 to 99 percent) of the internal carotid artery. 
Epidemiologic and clinical aspects of insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. Epidemiologic studies have shown that insulin is a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Clinical studies have also demonstrated positive correlations between insulin and blood pressure, triglycerides, total cholesterol, fibrinogen, and plasminogen activator inhibitor. Moreover, there is an inverse correlation between insulin and high-density lipoprotein (HDL). These studies have provided evidence in support of the biologic plausibility of epidemiologic observations, but they have not clearly established insulin's role in the pathogenesis of human cardiovascular diseases (CVD) such as hypertension. In fact, there is considerable evidence that insulin resistance (abnormal nonoxidative glucose disposal), not hyperinsulinemia, is the primary insulin-related abnormality in human hypertension, and that hyperinsulinemia occurs as a response to insulin resistance. Skeletal muscle appears to be the primary site of insulin resistance in essential hypertension, although other organs, such as the kidneys and liver--key sites for cell and water homeostasis and lipoprotein regulation, respectively--may respond normally to insulin. Adipocytes also appear to be a site of insulin resistance. Thus, the putative interrelationship between hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, on the one hand, and with blood pressure and lipoproteins, on the other, is a complex one and may involve organ-specific insulin resistance. Altered cation transport is one of several mechanisms by which insulin resistance might raise blood pressure. The Na+, K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase pumps are insulin sensitive. Thus, when insulin resistance is present, the activity of these pumps in the smooth muscle of the arterial wall might be reduced. This would lead to an intracellular accumulation of sodium and calcium, thereby sensitizing the vascular wall to pressor substances. Moreover, secondary hyperinsulinemia will occur, and insulin has been shown to stimulate sympathetic nervous system activity and to increase renal tubular absorption of sodium. Insulin is also a growth factor and therefore might have a trophic effect on the vessel wall, one that could initiate and/or sustain hypertension as well as atherosclerosis. Abnormal lipoprotein metabolism is yet another possible explanation for the accelerated atherosclerosis that has been observed in persons with abnormal carbohydrate tolerance and insulin resistance. Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance both play a role in the expression of elevated very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels as well as in the depression of HDL levels. Coronary risk reduction has been disappointing when blood pressure has been lowered with treatment regimens based on thiazide diuretics and/or beta blockers. Thiazides and some beta blockers may further impair tissue insulin sensitivity and often cause blood lipoprotein abnormalities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The natural history of superficial femoral artery stenoses. Since the natural history of specific superficial femoral artery stenoses is not known, we examined progression rates of superficial femoral artery stenoses in 45 lower extremities found when arteriograms were obtained of 38 patients for symptomatic atherosclerotic disease in the opposite leg or abdomen. These initial superficial femoral artery arteriograms were compared with later arteriograms in 25 limbs, duplex scans in 27 limbs, and both modalities in 7 limbs. After a mean interval of 37 months, most superficial femoral artery stenoses (72%) did not progress. However, 12 superficial femoral artery stenoses progressed (28%; mean follow-up, 37 months, including 7 that occluded (17%). Superficial femoral artery stenoses progressed among patients who complained of symptom progression at a rate faster than that among asymptomatic patients (15.6%/year vs 3%/year; p = 0.006). Superficial femoral artery lesions also progressed more rapidly among patients whose contralateral superficial femoral artery was occluded (10%/year vs 1.6%/year; p = 0.04). By multivariate regression analysis, symptom progression and smoking history were predictive of superficial femoral artery stenosis progression. In the seven patients whose superficial femoral artery stenoses progressed to occlusion, the average rate of stenosis progression was 12%/year (maximum predicted rate, 30% per year by 95% confidence limit). These results indicate that superficial femoral artery stenoses usually progress with synchronous symptomatic deterioration. Other than symptom progression, only cumulative smoking history and contralateral superficial femoral artery occlusion could be associated with superficial femoral artery stenosis progression in this small series. 
Knowledge and beliefs about cancer in a socioeconomically disadvantaged population. Americans living in poverty experience a higher incidence of and greater mortality from cancer than the nonpoor. At least 50% of the difference in mortality is believed to be due to delay in diagnosis, although risk-promoting lifestyles and behaviors also contribute to decreased survival. A potential exacerbating factor among the poor is inadequate information and knowledge about cancer and its treatment. Interviews were conducted with 128 cancer patients from a socioeconomically disadvantaged population to assess knowledge of cancer and its treatment and to evaluate care-seeking behaviors. Results indicated that although patients relied primarily on their physicians for information about their disease and treatment, a number of misconceptions regarding cancer existed in this population. Notably, nearly 50% of the patients surveyed either denied or did not know that smoking was related to the development of cancer. Additionally, patients frequently reported inappropriate care-seeking behaviors when asked to respond to a series of common disease-related signs or symptoms. These findings suggest that misinformation and misconceptions regarding cancer and its treatment among patients in this sample may contribute to inappropriate care-seeking behaviors. 
Comparative safety, tolerance, and pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B lipid complex and amphotericin B desoxycholate in healthy male volunteers. Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC), a lipid complex formulation of amphotericin B, and amphotericin B desoxycholate (AB) were compared for safety, tolerance, and pharmacokinetics in two groups of eight healthy male volunteers. After a 1-mg test dose, study drug was infused at 0.1, 0.25, and 0.5 mg/kg; the 0.5-mg/kg dose was not given to subjects receiving AB. ABLC caused few acute adverse effects except for mild somnolence (drowsiness) in six volunteers. In addition, three of eight ABLC recipient had asymptomatic, transient serum transaminase elevations that resolved spontaneously. The AB recipients experienced more acute side effects, but only one had a mild shaking chill: three of eight also experienced sleepiness. No significant changes in vital signs, electrocardiogram, oximetry, pulmonary function, or clinical status were observed in either group. Due to its increased estimate volume of distribution and estimated clearance. ABLC yielded decreased amphotericin B levels and area under the serum concentration versus time curve relative to AB. 
Effects of sleep-induced increases in upper airway resistance on ventilation. To determine the effects of the sleep-induced increases in upper airway resistance on ventilatory output, we studied five subjects who were habitual snorers but otherwise normal while awake (AW) and during non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep under the following conditions: 1) stage 2, low-resistance sleep (LRS); 2) stage 3-4, high-resistance sleep (HRS) (snoring); 3) with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP); 4) CPAP + end-tidal CO2 partial pressure (PETCO2) mode isocapnic to LRS; and 5) CPAP + PETCO2 isocapnic to HRS. We measured ventilatory output via pneumotachograph in the nasal mask, PETCO2, esophageal pressure, inspiratory and expiratory resistance (RL,I and RL,E). Changes in PETCO2 were confirmed with PCO2 measurements in arterialized venous blood in all conditions in one subject. During wakefulness, pulmonary resistance (RL) remained constant throughout inspiration, whereas in stage 2 and especially in stage 3-4 NREM sleep, RL rose markedly throughout inspiration. Expired minute ventilation (VE) decreased by 12% in HRS, and PETCO2 increased in LRS (3.3 Torr) and HRS (4.9 Torr). CPAP decreased RL,I to AW levels and increased end-expiratory lung volume 0.25-0.93 liter. Tidal volume (VT) and mean inspiratory flow rate (VT/TI) increased significantly with CPAP. Inspiratory time (TI) shortened, and PETCO2 decreased 3.6 Torr but remained 1.3 Torr above AW. During CPAP (RL,I equal to AW), with PETCO2 returned to the level of LRS, VT/TI and VE were 83 and 52% higher than during LRS alone. Also on CPAP, with PETCO2 made equal to HRS, VT, VT/TI, and VE were 67, 112, and 67% higher than during HRS alone. 
Total arthroplasty of the hip after childhood sepsis. Total hip arthroplasty was performed in 45 hips of 44 patients who had pyogenic arthritis of the hip during childhood. The average age of the patients was 36.4 years (range 19 to 50). The interval between active infection and arthroplasty ranged from 11 to 40 years, and average follow-up was 65.4 months (range 58 to 80). Specimens of tissue taken before and during operation gave negative cultures in all hips, and no patient had reactivation of infection. The mean functional rating of the hips was 58 points before operation and 90 at the final review. Complications were seen in 11 cases (24%), loosening of components occurred in six (13%) and one hip had to be revised for acetabular component migration. Acetabular allografts were required in 27 hips (60%). All allografts united but there was partial resorption of the graft in the non-weight-bearing area in all. 
Hemorrhagic venous infarction after excision of an arteriovenous malformation: case report. A case of arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in which postoperative hemorrhagic infarction developed, probably because of occlusion of the former draining veins, is reported. The hemorrhage developed in the temporal lobe 3 days after the initial operation and was located in the immediate vicinity of the site of the AVM. The following findings suggest that the postsurgical hemorrhage probably resulted from a venous thrombosis: 1) no evidence of residual AVM; 2) delayed onset of the hemorrhage, inconsistent with the time course of a hemorrhage developing according to the breakthrough theory or with insufficient hemostasis with a high-pressure afterload; 3) good correlation between the location of the hemorrhage and the occlusion of the draining veins; and 4) multifocal hemorrhage affecting both the gray matter and the subcortical white matter. Postoperative hemorrhagic infarction caused by thrombosis in the draining veins is rare, but it should be considered as a distinct postoperative complication after removal of an AVM. 
Cell recovery during segmental intestinal perfusion in healthy subjects and patients with Crohn's disease. The recovery of cells arising from small intestinal mucosa alone was studied during continuous perfusion of a closed segment of jejunum. The perfusion technique minimised the contamination of the perfused segment with, for example, proteolytic enzymes from pancreas, allowing recovery of viable cells. The use of hyaluronidase in the perfusion fluid increased the recovery of cells fivefold, the median recovery being 8 x 10(6) cells. The cells were analysed with monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry. Nearly all cells (98-99%) recovered during perfusion of healthy control subjects and patients with Crohn's disease were epithelial cells. The jejunal cells expressed HLA-DR in similar proportions--around 30%--in patients and control subjects. The ratio between CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes was similar (0.2) in control subjects and patients with inactive Crohn's disease but decreased (0.03) in patients with active Crohn's disease in the ileum. 
Candidal mediastinitis after surgical repair of esophageal perforation. Candidal mediastinitis, like Boerhaave's syndrome, is uncommon, and both, if treated late or incompletely, frequently result in death. Early recognition and aggressive medical and surgical intervention are the best means to convalescence and cure in both conditions. 
Postischemic myocardial "stunning". Identification of major differences between the open-chest and the conscious dog and evaluation of the oxygen radical hypothesis in the conscious dog. Recent studies suggest that oxygen-derived free radicals contribute to the pathogenesis of postischemic myocardial dysfunction (myocardial "stunning"). This concept, however, is predicated exclusively on results obtained in open-chest preparations, which are subject to the confounding influence of many unphysiological conditions. The lack of supporting evidence in more physiological animal models represents a major persisting limitation of the oxy-radical hypothesis of myocardial stunning. The goal of this study was to address two fundamental (and related) questions: 1) Does the open-chest animal model alter the phenomenon of myocardial stunning? 2) If so, how valid are the concepts, derived from such a model, regarding the pathogenetic role of oxy-radicals? In part 1 of the study, myocardial stunning after a 15-minute coronary occlusion was compared in 30 pentobarbital-anesthetized open-chest dogs and in 19 conscious dogs. For any given level of collateral flow during occlusion, the recovery of systolic wall thickening after reperfusion was markedly less in open-chest animals. In an additional group of five open-chest dogs, a close inverse relation was noted between body temperature and postischemic wall thickening, indicating that the recovery of the stunned myocardium in acute experiments may vary markedly depending on how temperature is controlled. Because of these major differences between open-chest and conscious dogs, the oxy-radical hypothesis needs to be tested in the latter model. Thus, in part 2 of the study, conscious unsedated dogs undergoing a 15-minute coronary occlusion were randomized to an intravenous infusion of either saline (19 coronary occlusions) or superoxide dismutase (SOD) plus catalase (CAT) (21 coronary occlusions). Despite the fact that the plasma levels of SOD and CAT declined rapidly after reperfusion, postischemic wall thickening was significantly greater in treated compared with control dogs throughout the first 6 hours of reflow. Thus, a brief (60-minute) infusion of SOD and CAT produced a sustained improvement of recovery of contractility. The magnitude of this beneficial effect was a function of the severity of ischemia: the lower the collateral perfusion, the greater the improvement effected by the enzymes. The accelerated recovery produced by SOD and CAT was not followed by any deterioration of contractility, suggesting that postischemic dysfunction is not a teleologically "protective" phenomenon. In conclusion, the severity of myocardial stunning is greatly exaggerated by the unphysiological conditions present in the barbiturate-anesthetized open-chest dog.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Suppressor T-cell deficiency in primary sclerosing cholangitis. Case and family study. Primary sclerosing cholangitis is considered to be an autoimmune disease of the liver in which there is an association with the HLA phenotypes B8 and DR3 and in which circulating autoantibodies occur. Abnormalities of immune regulation may be present but whether or not they are primary or acquired is not known. This report is of a patient with primary sclerosing cholangitis who was homozygous for HLA B8 DR3, had a circulating antinuclear antibody, and a defect in nonspecific suppressor T-cell activity despite glucocorticosteroid treatment. Nevertheless, family studies revealed no evidence of an immunoregulatory defect in first-degree relatives despite the presence of Raynaud's phenomenon and malignancy in two sisters. 
Chondroblastomalike extraskeletal chondroma. An unusual extraskeletal tumor occurring in the right thumb of a 44-year-old man exhibited histologically a chondroblastomalike appearance. The tumor was characterized by dense proliferation of chondroblastic cells admixed with a few multinucleated giant cells of osteoclast type. The patient had no evidence of local recurrence or metastasis three-and-a-half years after a simple excision. 
Novel approach to iatrogenic bile peritonitis. Bile peritonitis after injury to the biliary tree is a serious complication that requires exploratory laparotomy. Our patient had an obstructing ampullary carcinoma, and generalized bile peritonitis developed from attempted percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography. The patient's condition was managed by peritoneal lavage and endoscopic transampullary stenting, with immediate relief of pain and toxicity. Exploratory laparotomy was avoided, and an eventual pylorus-sparing Whipple resection was the definitive treatment. We believe this to be the first report of successful nonoperative treatment of a patient with bile peritonitis with obstructive jaundice. 
Prognostic value of galactose elimination capacity, aminopyrine breath test, and ICG clearance in patients with cirrhosis. Comparison with the Pugh score. Seventy-eight patients with cirrhosis were prospectively followed for up to 20 months, on the average. At entry into the study, galactose elimination capacity, aminopyrine breath test, and ICG clearance were measured. At the end of the study, 27 patients had died. Univariate analysis using the Kaplan-Meier method showed that both quantitative liver function tests (galactose elimination capacity: P less than 0.025; aminopyrine breath test: P less than 0.001; ICG clearance: P less than 0.005) and common clinical and biochemical data (encephalopathy: P less than 0.001; ascites: P less than 0.001; serum bilirubin: P less than 0.005; serum albumin: P less than 0.001; prothrombin index: P less than 0.05) were significant predictors of survival. To investigate whether quantitative liver function tests could contribute to a better definition of the prognosis, once Pugh score had already been taken into account, a multiple regression analysis according to the Cox model was performed. Pugh score and galactose elimination capacity resulted in the only independent prognostic covariates. From them a prognostic index was calculated, and the model was validated in an additional sample of 70 patients investigated according to the same protocol. The contribution GEC gave to the assessment of overall prognosis over that obtained using the Pugh score was slight, as estimated by the statistical parameters of the Cox's model, but was significant as assessed by a ROC curve analysis (P = 0.05). These data show that all quantitative liver function tests were predictors of survival in cirrhosis, and that the galactose elimination capacity added some new prognostic information to those already available using the Child-Turcotte-Pugh classification. 
Regional differences in elastic recoil after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty: a quantitative angiographic study. The immediate result of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is influenced by both plastic and elastic changes of the vessel wall. To evaluate the amount of elastic recoil after coronary balloon angioplasty, the minimal luminal cross-sectional area of the largest balloon used at highest inflation pressure was compared with the minimal luminal vessel cross-sectional area directly after final balloon deflation in 607 lesions (526 patients). Elastic recoil was defined as the difference between balloon cross-sectional area and minimal luminal cross-sectional area of the dilated coronary segment immediately after balloon withdrawal. A videodensitometric analysis technique was used to avoid geometric assumptions on stenosis morphology directly after angioplasty. Mean balloon cross-sectional area was 5.3 +/- 1.6 mm2 and minimal luminal cross-sectional area after angioplasty was 2.8 +/- 1.4 mm2. Reference areas before and after angioplasty did not differ (6.0 +/- 2.6 and 6.2 +/- 2.6 mm2, respectively). Univariate analysis revealed that asymmetric lesions, lesions located in less angulated parts of the artery and lesions with a low plaque content showed more elastic recoil. Lesions located in distal parts of the coronary tree were also associated with more elastic recoil probably related to relative balloon oversizing in these distal lesions. 
Differentiation in B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell populations with CD34-positive subpopulations. B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia bone marrow specimens that contained subpopulations of cells with immunophenotypes corresponding to early (CD34) and late (CD20) and (CD22) stages of normal B-cell differentiation were studied. Subpopulations of cells were isolated according to immunophenotype and then analyzed by both a clonogenic assay and molecular genetic methods. Clonal equivalence of the early and late immunophenotypic subpopulations was confirmed for each case by the demonstration of identical lg gene rearrangements. The in vitro colony-forming assay consistently showed a growth advantage for the CD34+ subpopulations over the CD34- subpopulations. CD34 mRNA was detected readily in these isolated precursor cells. When two specimens in which virtually all of the leukemia cells were CD34+ and CD34+CD20+ and CD34+CD22+ subpopulations were also present the CD34 mRNA was limited to the cells without the late-stage differentiation antigens on their surface. Furthermore, the c-myb mRNA was found only in the subpopulations that also contained CD34 mRNA. Our results show that a limited program of differentiation reminiscent of normal B-cell development may be present in this leukemia. 
Global T wave inversion. Because global T wave inversion has not been specifically characterized, 100 electrocardiograms (ECGs) with this pattern (frontal plane T vector -100 degrees to -170 degrees with precordial T inversion) were prospectively collected from approximately 30,000 consecutively interpreted ECGs and analyzed blindly. There was a striking female predominance (82 women vs. 18 men; p less than 0.0005) despite an essentially equal number of female and male hospital admissions. There was a single statistically significant ECG correlate: a more vertical QRS axis in women (+14.1 degrees +/- 45.3 degrees vs. -5.6 degrees +/- 31.3 degrees; p = 0.034). The T waves were basically symmetric (68%), the influence of this factor usually altering the characteristically asymmetric T wave inversions of right bundle branch block (4 of 5) and left ventricular hypertrophy (21 of 36). Asymmetry was mainly associated with digoxin therapy (21 of 32 patients taking digoxin; p less than or equal to 0.0005) and a corrected QT (QTc) interval (0.433 +/- 0.095) shorter than with symmetric T wave inversions (0.507 +/- 0.074; p less than or equal to 0.0005) though not reaching the degree of shortening expected for digitalization. Twenty-eight patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction and 23 for a central nervous system disorder accounted for the majority of patients with symmetric T wave inversion. Fifteen of 18 patients who had coronary angiography had some degree of coronary artery disease: 3 had angiographically normal coronary arteries. 
Somato-somatic referred pain caused by suprasegmental spinal cord tumor. Tactile stimulation of a coin-sized area in a T-2 dermatome consistently triggered a lancinating pain in the ipsilateral C-8 dermatome in a 38-year-old woman. The SEP and an MRI led to a diagnosis of a tumor at the left cervico-medullary junction, much higher than the clinically suspected level. Surgical exploration revealed an exophytic glioma, and the pain was abolished postoperatively. Ephaptic transmission at the tumor site was suspected as a pathophysiologic mechanism. 
Early constrictive pericarditis and anemia after Dressler's syndrome and inferior wall myocardial infarction. Early constrictive pericarditis and anaemia developed in a 52 year old man after he had an inferior wall myocardial infarction complicated by Dressler's syndrome. Total pericardiectomy at the time of coronary artery bypass surgery resulted in complete resolution of signs and symptoms. 
Effect of sinorphan, an enkephalinase inhibitor, on plasma atrial natriuretic factor and sodium urinary excretion in cirrhotic patients with ascites. We examined the acute effects of sinorphan, an inhibitor of enkephalinase, on plasma atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and urinary sodium excretion in cirrhotic patients with ascites. A single oral dose of sinorphan (100 or 30 mg in 11 and 5 patients, respectively) was administered against placebo according to a double blind cross-over protocol. Basal plasma ANF levels varied over a large range between 2.6-79 pmol/L. Sinorphan, at a dose of 100 mg, inhibited 70% of plasma enkephalinase activity 60 min after ingestion and elicited simultaneously an increase in plasma ANF and cGMP levels 1.8 and 1.5 times basal values, respectively. There was a transient increase in sodium urinary output without a change in creatinine clearance over the initial 2-h period following drug administration. An increase in urinary cGMP was also observed on a longer period of 6 h. Plasma aldosterone decreased significantly, but the lowest concentration was reached 1 h later than the peak of plasma ANF. Mean blood pressure and PRA were unmodified. The effects of 30 mg sinorphan on plasma ANF, cGMP, and aldosterone were also significant, but less marked than those of the higher dose. Therefore, enkephalinase inhibition transiently increases sodium urinary excretion in cirrhotic patients with ascites via a mechanism that is likely to imply reduction of ANF catabolism. These results suggest that ANF could play a role in the control of sodium homeostasis in liver cirrhosis with ascites. 
Aneurysm of the distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery unrelated to the cerebellopontine angle: case report. This is a case report of an unusual aneurysm of the distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery. A 44-year-old woman had a severe frontal headache and vomiting of sudden onset. On the day after admission, the patient began to demonstrate nuchal rigidity and difficulty with upward gaze bilaterally. There were no complaints at this time suggestive of a syndrome of the cerebellopontine angle. A computed tomographic scan revealed an intraventricular hemorrhage of the 3rd and 4th ventricles; however, multiple attempts at four-vessel angiography were required before an aneurysm could be demonstrated. On the 28th hospital day, a suboccipital craniectomy using the retromastoid approach in the lateral position was performed. A saccular aneurysm with a surrounding hematoma in the distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery was found and clipped. The operative findings revealed that the aneurysm was unrelated to the cerebellopontine angle. After surgery, the patient had an uneventful recovery and complete resolution of symptoms. 
Cancer incidence in Norwegian Seventh-Day Adventists 1961 to 1986. Is the cancer-life-style association overestimated? Standardized incidence ratio for cancer in Norwegian Seventh-Day Adventists compared with the general population was not significantly different from unity (men 91, women 97). Persons converting late in life had a higher incidence than those converting at an earlier age. Respiratory cancers (standardized incidence ratio [SIR] 59, 95% CI = 36 to 91) and cancers with an unspecified site (SIR 53, 95% CI = 25 to 97) were rarer and cancer of the uterine corpus (SIR 164, 95% CI = 109 to 237) was more common in Seventh-Day Adventists before the age of 75 years. Inclusion of all registered Seventh-Day Adventists regardless of religious activity and the relatively low cancer incidence rates in the Norwegian population could contribute to the nonsignificant result with regard to total cancer. Main etiologic factors in cancer development in Norway should be sought in areas where Seventh-Day Adventists do not differ from the general population. 
Epileptogenic effect of hypoxia in the immature rodent brain. The response to cerebral hypoxia/ischemia may be different in the neonate compared to other age groups. An in vivo model was developed in the rat to determine whether there are age-dependent differences in the effects of hypoxia on electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. EEG recordings were obtained from Long Evans hooded rats deprived of oxygen at five ages: postnatal days 5 to 7, 10 to 12, 15 to 17, 25 to 27, and 50 to 60. Oxygen concentration was varied from 0, 2, 3, and 4% between animals. EEGs were recorded in all animals before, during, and at 1 hour after exposure to the hypoxic condition and at 1 to 7 days afterward in a subset of animals. All animals were deprived of oxygen until the onset of apnea and bradycardia to 20 to 40% of baseline heart rate values. Hypoxia resulted in isoelectric EEG significantly more frequently in the animals deprived of oxygen at postnatal days 25 to 27 and 50 to 60 than in the younger age groups. A highly significant effect was that the animals deprived at postnatal days 5 to 17 revealed a high incidence of epileptiform EEG activity during hypoxia. In contrast, the older animals exhibited only rare isolated EEG spikes before reaching an isoelectric EEG. The severity of hypoxia-induced epileptiform EEG changes was highest in the animals subjected to moderately hypoxic conditions (3% and 4% oxygen) at postnatal days 10 to 12. Furthermore, epileptiform changes persisted for hours to days following prolonged episodes of hypoxia in the younger animals. This study demonstrates a unique response of the immature brain to exhibit epileptiform activity during hypoxia. 
Childhood cancer among the Polynesian population. From June 1981 through June 1989, 95 Polynesian children were seen for initial care of malignancy at the Princess Mary Hospital for Children (PMHC). The incidence of malignancy in the Polynesian populations served, the histology of the malignancies, and the outcome of therapy were reviewed and compared with 185 non-Polynesian (non-P) patients seen during the same period. Incidence figures for Polynesians and non-P were similar, but histologic patterns differed, showing an increased occurrence of leukemia, particularly nonlymphoblastic leukemia, an increased occurrence of bone tumors, and a decreased incidence of central nervous system tumors for Polynesians. Survival for Polynesian children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia was worse than for non-P. Survival in all other disease categories was similar. 
Hemorrhagic events during therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator, heparin, and aspirin for acute myocardial infarction. Results of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI), Phase II Trial. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of invasive procedures, hemostatic and clinical variables, the timing of beta-blocker therapy, and the doses of recombinant plasminogen activator (rt-PA) on hemorrhagic events. DESIGN: A multicenter, randomized, controlled trial. SETTING: Hospitals participating in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II trial (TIMI II). INTERVENTIONS: Patients received rt-PA, heparin, and aspirin. The total dose of rt-PA was 150 mg for the first 520 patients and 100 mg for the remaining 2819 patients. Patients were randomly assigned to an invasive strategy (coronary arteriography with percutaneous angioplasty [if feasible] done routinely 18 to 48 hours after the start of thrombolytic therapy) or to a conservative strategy (coronary arteriography done for recurrent spontaneous or exercise-induced ischemia). Eligible patients were also randomly assigned to either immediate intravenous or deferred beta-blocker therapy. MEASUREMENTS: Patients were monitored for hemorrhagic events during hospitalization. MAIN RESULTS: In patients on the 100-mg rt-PA regimen, major and minor hemorrhagic events were more common among those assigned to the invasive than among those assigned to the conservative strategy (18.5% versus 12.8%, P less than 0.001). Major or minor hemorrhagic events were associated with the extent of fibrinogen breakdown, peak rt-PA levels, thrombocytopenia, prolongation of the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) to more than 90 seconds, weight of 70 kg or less, female gender, and physical signs of cardiac decompensation. Immediate intravenous beta-blocker therapy had no important effect on hemorrhagic events when compared with delayed beta-blocker therapy. Intracranial hemorrhages were more frequent among patients treated with the 150-mg rt-PA dose than with the 100-mg rt-PA dose (2.1% versus 0.5%, P less than 0.001). The extent of the plasmin-mediated hemostatic defect was also greater in patients receiving the 150-mg dose. CONCLUSIONS: Increased morbidity due to hemorrhagic complications is associated with an invasive management strategy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Our findings show the complex interaction of several factors in the occurrence of hemorrhagic events during thrombolytic therapy. 
Treatment of unresectable meningiomas with the antiprogesterone agent mifepristone. The possibility that meningioma growth may be related to female sex hormone levels is suggested by several lines of evidence. Meningiomas are twice as common in women as in men, have been observed to wax and wane with pregnancy, and are positively associated with breast cancer. A physiological explanation for these phenomena is provided by the finding of steroid hormone receptors in meningiomas. However, unlike breast cancer, meningiomas are much more commonly positive for progesterone receptors than for estrogen receptors. The authors initiated a study on long-term oral therapy of unresectable meningiomas with the antiprogesterone mifepristone (RU486). Fourteen patients received mifepristone in daily doses of 200 mg for periods ranging from 2 to 31+ months (greater than or equal to 6 months in 12 patients). Five patients have shown signs of objective response (reduced tumor measurement on computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance image, or improved visual field examination). Three have also experienced subjective improvement (improved extraocular muscle function or relief from headache). The side effects of long-term mifepristone therapy have been mild. Fatigue was noted in 11 of the 14 patients. Other side effects included hot flashes in five patients, gynecomastia in three, partial alopecia in two, and cessation of menses in two. Long-term therapy with mifepristone is a new therapeutic option that may have efficacy in cases of unresectable benign meningioma. 
Transscleral leiomyoma. A bluish-pink epibulbar lesion, which slowly enlarged over a period of 5 years, developed in a 31-year-old woman. The lesion initially resembled a staphyloma, based on the very thinned overlying sclera, but subsequent evaluation suggested that it was a solid mass. At the time of surgical removal, the mass appeared to have originated in the supraciliary region and to have eroded outward through the sclera. Histopathologically, the mass proved to be a leiomyoma. The authors propose theoretic possibilities to explain the location of this rare type of ocular smooth muscle tumor. 
Detection of intraoperative laser injury to the facial nerve by electromyographic monitoring of facial muscles. Injury to the facial nerve is a significant risk during resection of cerebellopontine angle tumors. To minimize the risk of facial nerve injury, intraoperative electromyographic monitoring of facial musculature is frequently used. However, the reliability of such monitoring systems for detection of thermal nerve injury resulting from the use of carbon dioxide lasers has not been systematically evaluated. We determined the sensitivity of a computerized electromyographic monitor for detection of laser facial nerve injury in an anesthetized rat model. The mandibular and buccal branches of the facial nerve were isolated in 12 rats. A carbon dioxide laser was used to create controlled sites of thermal injury to both nerves over a 3-hour period. When a laser injury was created distal to previous injury sites, electromyographic discharge was noted in 72% to 82% of injuries. Laser injury proximal to previous injury sites was detected with 33% efficiency. These detection rates did not change significantly over a 3-hour period. This preliminary data suggests that electromyographic monitoring of facial musculature allows detection of facial nerve injury caused by carbon dioxide lasers. 
Morphologic comparison of frequency and types of acute lesions in the major epicardial coronary arteries in unstable angina pectoris, sudden coronary death and acute myocardial infarction. The frequency and type of acute lesions in the four major (right, left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex) epicardial coronary arteries were examined at necropsy in 14 patients with unstable angina pectoris, 21 patients with sudden coronary death and 32 patients with a fatal first acute myocardial infarction. None of the 67 patients had a grossly visible left ventricular scar (healed myocardial infarct) and only the group with acute myocardial infarction had left ventricular myocardial necrosis. Although the frequency of intraluminal thrombus was similar in patients with unstable angina (29%) and sudden death (29%) and significantly lower than in those with acute infarction (69%) (p = 0.02), the thrombus in the patients with unstable angina and sudden death consisted almost entirely of platelets and was nonocclusive, whereas the thrombus in the group with acute infarction consisted almost entirely of fibrin and was occlusive. The frequency of plaque rupture was insignificantly different in the groups with unstable angina (36%) and sudden death (19%), and was significantly lower than in the group with acute infarction (75%) (p = 0.02). The frequency of plaque hemorrhage was insignificantly different in the groups with unstable angina (64%) and sudden death (38%) and was significantly lower than in the group with acute infarction (90%) (p = 0.04). 
Adrenal hemangioma: an unusual adrenal mass delineated with magnetic resonance imaging. Adrenal hemangioma should be included in the differential diagnosis of any large calcified adrenal mass. We report to our knowledge the eighth surgically removed lesion and describe its appearance on magnetic resonance imaging. This imaging includes features seen in hemangiomas elsewhere, in particular a heterogeneous mass with enhancing peripheral high intensity foci on T1 images. 
A modified technique of pre-operative aortography to demonstrate the complete arterial tree of the lower limb. One hundred consecutive aortograms were studied to establish the efficacy of conventional arteriography in demonstrating distal vessels and the pedal arch. The standard technique was modified by using a long injection time, a large volume of contrast material (iopamidol 370), prolonged filming and multiple exposures of the feet. On the basis of these examinations each limb was classified as having aorto-iliac disease (18 limbs), superficial femoral disease (103 limbs), combined segment disease (28 limbs) or generalised disease (51 limbs). Calf and ankle arteries were seen in 196 of the 200 limbs (98%). Patency of the pedal arch was established in 184 (92%). Fourteen percent of the group of patients with combined segment disease did not have their pedal arch visualised and this group contained most of the examination failures. This modified method of aortography can demonstrate the entire arterial tree from the aorta to the foot in 92% of limbs with symptomatic chronic atherosclerotic disease. This allows the majority of peripheral vascular reconstructions to be planned and performed without the need for intra-operative arteriography. 
Hyperbaric treatment of cerebral air embolism sustained during an open-heart surgical procedure A case of cerebral air embolism sustained during replacement of the mitral valve resulted in postoperative coma and seizures. Hyperbaric treatment, begun 30 hours after the occurrence of the air embolism, resulted in good immediate and long-term recovery. Mild deficits of the left hemisphere were present at follow-up 53 days after the embolus was sustained, and lesser, minimal residua were present at 14-month follow-up. Hyperbaric treatment is the definitive therapy for cerebral air embolism. Although it is most effective when administered early, the outcome may be excellent even with late treatment. 
Growth of human basal cell carcinomas transplanted to C57/Balb/C bgJ/bgJ nu/nu (beige-nude) mice. The purpose of this study was to measure growth parameters of transplanted basal cell carcinoma (BCC) to beige-nude mice during a 4-month observation time. Forty male beige-nude mice were transplanted with human BCC with our reported subcutaneous implantation technique. Initial volume and wet weight were determined for each tumor. The tumors were measured every 2 weeks by calipers with a final volume determined at 120 days, at which time the tumors were harvested, weighed, and processed for routine histology. Thirty-two tumor sites were positive for persistent tumor at harvest. Tumor volumes declined by an average of 51% and average tumor weight by 33%. There were increased numbers of mast cells surrounding the BCC tumor lobules. These results indicate that BCC can survive for 120 days in the beige-nude mouse. 
Carbon dioxide laser energy disperses human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid onto treatment fields. The possibility of dispersing viral deoxyribonucleic acid during carbon dioxide laser treatment of human papillomavirus-containing genital infections has been investigated with a commercially available dot blot hybridization technique. The viral ribonucleic acid probes were specific for groups of human papillomavirus types 6/11, 16/18, and 31/33/35. Laser energy was delivered by continuous-wave mode and the plume of smoke was evacuated by a vacuum suction system. Samples were taken with Dacron swabs from lesional tissues of 43 patients as well as from the treated areas and from the 5 cm surrounding normal skin before and after laser vaporization. Human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid was identified in swabs from 34 of 43 (79%) lesional tissues and 7 of 43 (16%) treatment fields. Although a trend for higher human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid positivity in laser margins after therapy (7/43, 16%) than before (4/43, 9%) was observed, the rates were not statistically significant. It is concluded that carbon dioxide laser energy disperses human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid onto treatment fields and the adjacent normal epithelium. Viral contamination of treated areas may be reduced by positioning the fume evacuator within 1 cm of the field of laser vaporization and cleaning the treated areas and surrounding tissue after therapy. 
Bouveret's syndrome: an unusual twist on the classic cause. Bouveret's syndrome is a duodenal obstruction caused by a gallstone, manifested mostly as a gastric outlet obstruction. We have reported an instance of Bouveret's syndrome caused by two separate stones, either of which could independently have caused the obstruction. It is imperative to be sure that the obstruction is relieved before terminating the operative procedure. 
Angiographic management of retroperitoneal hemorrhage from renal angiomyolipoma in polycystic kidney disease. Angiographic management of bilateral angiomyolipomas complicated by hemorrhage in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is presented. The patient had mild stigmata of tuberous sclerosis, and a family history of tuberous sclerosis and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. The radiographic features at diagnosis, and those present during and after embolization are described. Radiological criteria for diagnosis and successful control of bleeding with intra-arterial selective embolization are discussed. Radiographic features before, during and after embolization are exhibited. 
Specificity of low dose fadrozole hydrochloride (CGS 16949A) as an aromatase inhibitor. CGS 16949A (fadrozole hydrochloride), a potent cytochrome P450-mediated steroidogenesis inhibitor, blocks aromatase at low doses, but other biosynthetic steps at higher concentrations. Recent studies demonstrated inhibition of C11-hydroxylase, corticosterone methyloxidase-II, and deoxycorticosterone to corticosterone conversion with this agent at some-what higher concentrations than those required for blockade of aromatase. Based upon phase I studies, we postulated that relatively selective inhibition of aromatase might be possible if sufficiently low doses of CGS 16949A were used. A phase II study in 54 postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer examined the effects of low dose CGS 16949A on estrogen, mineralocorticoid, and glucocorticoid secretion. Two dose schedules and two dose levels were chosen based upon our prior dose escalation protocol study. Plasma estrone, estradiol, and estrone sulfate as well as urinary estrone and estradiol fell equally with 1.8-4 mg CGS 16949A given either on a twice daily or three times daily dose schedule. Isotopic kinetic studies demonstrated an 84% decrease in the rate of conversion of androstenedione to estrone to 0.40 +/- 0.07% (patients receiving 1.8-4 mg CGS 16949A daily). With these three regimens, basal levels of aldosterone and cortisol did not change significantly over a 12-week period of observation. Clinical examination, plasma electrolytes, and urinary sodium/potassium ratios suggested no biological evidence of mineralo-corticoid deficiency. ACTH-stimulated cortisol concentrations, however, were blunted at each dose level compared to pretreatment values. Nonetheless, peak responses exceeded 550 nmol/L, or a basal to peak difference of 190 nmol/L or greater, in 97% of instances. This probably reflected inhibition of C11-hydroxylase, since basal and ACTH-stimulated levels of 11-deoxycortisol were increased in response to CGS 16949A. Androstenedione and 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone also exhibited an upward trend in response to drug treatment. ACTH-stimulated aldosterone levels were blunted to a greater extent than those of cortisol, probably as a reflection of corticosterone methyloxidase type II blockade. Overall, the results suggest that CGS 16949A, at doses of 1.8-2 mg daily, blocks aromatase effectively and does not produce clinically important inhibition of cortisol or aldosterone biosynthesis. Thus, this agent can probably be used safely without glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid supplementation. 
Isolated neurofibromas of the conjunctiva. We studied four histologically verified cases of isolated neurofibromas of the conjunctiva. The histologic pattern was diffuse in two patients, plexiform in one patient, and solitary in one patient. Simple excision was curative in all cases. We emphasize the importance of distinguishing neuromas (which may be associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia) from neurofibromas. 
Double anal canal: complication of rectal fecalith. Fecaliths and stercoraceous ulcerations are well-known complications of chronic constipation. The authors present the case of a double anal canal in an elderly man. This anorectal fistula (complex anal fistula) developed as a complication of an impacted rectal fecalith with resultant stercoraceous ulceration. Eventually, a persistent epithelialized canal developed and was demonstrated at double-contrast barium enema examination. The patient remained continent at all times. 
Vegetative state after closed-head injury. A Traumatic Coma Data Bank Report. To elucidate the clinical course of the vegetative state after severe closed-head injury, the Traumatic Coma Data Bank was analyzed for outcome at the time of discharge from the hospital and after follow-up intervals ranging up to 3 years after injury. Of 650 patients with closed-head injury available for analysis, 93 (14%) were discharged in a vegetative state. In comparison with conscious survivors, patients in a vegetative state sustained more severe closed-head injury as reflected by the Glasgow Coma Scale scores and pupillary findings and more frequently had diffuse injury complicated by swelling or shift in midline structures. Of 84 patients in a vegetative state who provided follow-up data, 41% became conscious by 6 months, 52% regained consciousness by 1 year, and 58% recovered consciousness within the 3-year follow-up interval. A logistic regression failed to identify predictors of recovery from the vegetative state. 
Similar outcome of treatment of B-cell and T-cell diffuse large-cell lymphomas: the Stanford experience. Although previous studies have suggested a relatively poor prognosis for some patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma, the clinical significance of immunologic phenotype in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL) remains controversial. One hundred one patients with a uniform morphologic diagnosis of DLCL treated at Stanford between 1975 and 1986 with cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH), vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP), methotrexate, bleomycin, Adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone ([M]BACOD), or methotrexate, Adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (MACOP-B) chemotherapy were studied with regard to immunologic phenotype. Immunologic analysis, performed on frozen or paraffin-embedded tissue, identified 77 cases of B-cell origin, 21 cases of T-cell origin, and three cases that lacked B-cell or T-cell markers. Analysis of complete remission (CR) rates (84% v 95%), 5-year actuarial freedom from disease progression (38% v 53%), and 5-year actuarial overall survival (52% v 79%) showed no statistically significant differences in prognosis between B- and T-cell patients, respectively. The 5-year actuarial survival of patients with stage IV T-cell DLCL (56%) also did not differ in a statistically significant way from stage IV B-cell patients (36%). We conclude that treatment selection for DLCL should not be based on immunologic phenotype alone. 
Long survival after excision of a primary malignant melanoma of the oesophagus. A woman who had a large primary malignant melanoma of the oesophagus, with evidence of submucosal invasion and several local metastases, underwent resection two years after the onset of retrosternal pain and has survived for 12 years with no recurrence. 
Beta-adrenergic-antagonist drugs in the prevention of gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices. An analysis of data and prognostic factors in 589 patients from four randomized clinical trials. Franco-Italian Multicenter Study Group. BACKGROUND. The value of beta-adrenergic-antagonist drug therapy for the prevention of initial episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices is uncertain, both positive and negative study results having been reported. METHODS. In this study, we analyzed data on individual patients from four randomized, controlled trials to assess the efficacy of this treatment. Of the 589 patients studied, 286 received a beta-adrenergic-antagonist drug (propranolol in 203 and nadolol in 83) and 303 received placebo. RESULTS. After two years, the mean (+/- SE) percentage of patients who had had no upper gastrointestinal bleeding was 78 +/- 3 percent in the beta-adrenergic-antagonist treatment group and 65 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.002). The percentage of patients without fatal bleeding was 90 +/- 2 percent in the treatment group and 82 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.01). The percentage of patients surviving after two years was 71 +/- 3 percent in the treatment group and 68 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.34). After age and severity of cirrhosis were taken into account, the survival rate was better in the treatment group (P = 0.09). The percentage of surviving patients who had had no bleeding after two years was 62 +/- 3 percent in the treatment group and 53 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.04). Both propranolol and nadolol prevented a first episode of bleeding. Severe cirrhosis and especially the presence of ascites were associated with bleeding (P less than 0.001) and death (P less than 0.001) in both groups. The efficacy of beta-adrenergic-antagonist therapy in the prevention of bleeding (P less than 0.001) and of fatal bleeding (P = 0.004) and in the prevention of bleeding or death (P = 0.005) was the same after adjustment for cause and severity of cirrhosis, ascites, and size of varices. CONCLUSIONS. Propranolol and nadolol are effective in preventing first bleeding and reducing the mortality rate associated with gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis, regardless of severity. 
Glomerulopathy in patient with Donohue syndrome (leprechaunism). OBJECTIVE: To evaluate renal structure in a child with Donohue syndrome (leprechaunism), who at 10 yr of age was noted to have hypertension, microalbuminuria, and enlarged kidneys, a renal biopsy was performed. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The renal biopsy tissue was evaluated by light and electron microscopy with standard stereological techniques to measure glomerular volume, glomerular basement membrane width, fractional mesangial volume, and peripheral capillary filtering surface density. RESULTS: On renal biopsy, there was a marked increase in glomerular volume, glomerular basement width, and mesangial volume, findings similar to those seen in patients with diabetic nephropathy. CONCLUSIONS: This patient with marked insulin resistance associated with Donohue syndrome demonstrates renal and glomerular enlargement and morphometric glomerular changes similar to those seen in patients with diabetic nephropathy. In unusual syndromes with hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, renal structural and functional changes typical of traditional diabetes mellitus may be seen. 
The measurement and manipulation of intralabyrinthine pressure in experimental endolymphatic hydrops. Three to four months after unilateral surgical ablation of the endolymphatic duct and sac, endolymphatic and perilymphatic pressures were measured in both the normal and hydropic ears of 11 guinea pigs. In normal ears, endolymphatic pressure always approximated perilymphatic pressure. Endolymphatic pressure exceeded perilymphatic pressure in all ears with hydrops, except one in which these pressures were equal. The effect of postural inversion on inner ear pressures were studied in both normal and hydropic inner ears. Normal ears showed endolymphatic and perilymphatic pressure to rise equally during this maneuver. In hydropic ears, the difference between endolymphatic and perilymphatic pressure was notably reduced from measurements obtained in the prone position. This study indicates that an alteration in pressure regulation within the inner ear may be important in the pathogenesis and manifestation of experimental endolymphatic hydrops in the guinea pig. Physiologic mechanisms and clinical implications of these results are described. 
Prosthetic replacement of the distal femur for primary bone tumours. Over a 16-year period, 135 custom-made distal femoral prostheses, based on a fully constrained Stanmore-type knee replacement, were used in the treatment of primary malignant or aggressive benign tumours. Survivorship analysis showed a cumulative success rate of 72% at five years and 64% at seven years. Intact prostheses in 91% of the surviving patients gave good or excellent functional results. Deep infection was the major complication, occurring in 6.8% of cases; clinical aseptic loosening occurred in 6.0%. Revision surgery was carried out for loosening and infection, and the early results are encouraging. We conclude that prosthetic replacement of the distal femur can meet the objectives of limb salvage surgery. 
The neurology of endemic cretinism. A study of two endemias. Endemic cretinism is the most severe manifestation of dietary iodine deficiency. Two forms of the syndrome are traditionally described: neurological and myxoedematous. Although this classification highlights the important neurological sequelae of the disorder it implies that myxoedematous cretins have an alternative mechanism. Further, the nature of the neurological deficit associated with both types of endemic cretinism has received scant attention in recent times considering that it remains a common disorder in many parts of the world. The nature and extent of the neurological deficit found in endemic cretinism was investigated in 104 cretins from a predominantly myxoedematous endemia in western China and in 35 cretins from central Java, Indonesia, a predominantly neurological endemia. We found a similar pattern of neurological involvement in nearly all cretins from both endemias, regardless of type (myxoedematous or neurological), and of current thyroid function. Hallmarks of the neurological features included mental retardation, pyramidal signs in a proximal distribution and extrapyramidal signs. Many patients exhibited a characteristic gait. This probably reflected pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction, although joint laxity and deformity were important contributing factors. Other frequently encountered clinical features were squint, deafness, and primitive reflexes. Cerebral computerized tomography (CT) revealed basal ganglia calcification in 15 of 50 subjects. The presence of basal ganglia calcification was confined to cretins with severe hypothyroidism. Otherwise, cerebral CT scanning demonstrated only minor abnormalities which did not contribute to the localization of the clinical deficits. We conclude that the same neurological disorder is present in both types of endemic cretinism reflecting a diffuse insult to the developing fetal nervous system. These clinical findings support the concept of maternal and fetal hypothyroxinaemia, arising from severe iodine deficiency, as the primary pathophysiological event in endemic cretinism. Differences between the two types of cretinism may be explained by continuing postnatal thyroid hormone deficiency in the myxoedematous type, which results in impaired growth, skeletal retardation and sexual immaturity. 
Pulmonary vein thrombosis following bilobectomy. Acute thrombosis of the pulmonary vein following lobectomy or bilobectomy is a rare complication with no standard guideline for diagnosis or management. In this report, we present a case of right upper lobe vein thrombosis following a middle and lower lobectomy. Diagnosis was confirmed by ventilation-perfusion lung scan, pulmonary angiogram, and bronchoscopy. The patient was treated conservatively with no further complications and had a partial recovery of the circulation to the right upper lobe. A review of the literature is also presented along with the experimental data demonstrating the mechanisms of recovery. 
Atypical squamous cells. A case-series study of the association between papanicolaou smear results and human papillomavirus DNA genotype. Thirty women with "atypical" squamous cells but not cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) on their Papanicolaou smears were tested for the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) with the Southern blot hybridization technique. The Papanicolaou smears were reviewed for the presence of atypical squamous cells according to Patten's criteria. Comparison groups consisted of 30 patients with normal, 29 patients with CIN I and 24 patients with CIN II Papanicolaou smears. Ten of the 30 women (33%) with atypical cells on Papanicolaou smears were positive for HPV DNA as compared to 17% with normal and 59% with CIN I or II Papanicolaou smears. HPV 16 was present in 70-80% of the HPV DNA-positive patients in each Papanicolaou smear group. Concurrent CIN was also identified on colposcopically directed biopsies in 27% of the patients with squamous atypia. Patients with atypical squamous cells on Papanicolaou smears had coexisting HPV infection and CIN in about one-third of the cases. Colposcopy and further follow-up are recommended for such patients. 
Injury current and gradients of diastolic stimulation threshold, TQ potential, and extracellular potassium concentration during acute regional ischemia in the isolated perfused pig heart. During acute regional myocardial ischemia, a "current of injury" flows between the ischemic and the normal tissue. Its direction and magnitude change during the cardiac cycle. During diastole, the injury current flows intracellularly from the ischemic cells toward the normal cells and tends to depolarize the latter. The gain insight into the possible role of the injury current in arrhythmogenesis, we simultaneously determined diastolic stimulation threshold, [K+]o and TQ potential at multiple sites closely spaced across the cyanotic border in Langendorff-perfused pig hearts during the first 10 minutes after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The position of the electrodes relative to the border was validated by their response to 1) regional ischemia and 2) selective perfusion with a high-K+ perfusate of the left anterior descending coronary artery. A temporary decrease of diastolic stimulation threshold preceded a rapid increase in the central ischemic zone; a lasting reduction (by +/- 20%) without a concomitant increase of [K+]o was observed at seven sites (of 39 sites tested), five of which were less than 2 mm outside the electrophysiological border. Moreover, up to 4 mm inside the electrophysiological border, a similar lasting decrease of diastolic stimulation threshold was accompanied by a moderate increase of [K+]o. We conclude that 1) the injury current causes increased excitability in normal tissue close to the "ischemic" border and 2) increased excitability related to a moderately increased [K+]o may persist up to 10 minutes of ischemia at the ischemic side of the border. Both factors may facilitate the induction of life-threatening arrhythmias in acute myocardial ischemia. 
Intraoperative facial nerve monitoring: prognostic aspects during acoustic tumor removal. Intraoperative facial nerve monitoring with electrical stimulation (IFNMES) has become an integral part of acoustic tumor surgery. We reviewed the records of fifty-six patients who underwent translabyrinthine acoustic tumor removal with IFNMES. There was excellent correlation between intraoperative facial nerve activity and immediate postoperative facial nerve function (24 hours after surgery and at hospital discharge). Our data would suggest that patients who exhibit less than 500 microvolts of ongoing EMG activity during surgery, and who yield at least a 500-microvolt contraction when stimulated with 0.05 milliamps at the brainstem after tumor removal, can expect an excellent immediate facial nerve result (grade I or II). 
Diskitis in children. Thirty-six patients diagnosed with diskitis from 1978 to 1988 and followed for an average of 29.2 months were reviewed. The study included 23 boys and 13 girls with an average age of 5.3 years. The initial symptoms varied, but distinct clinical patterns emerged and were identifiable in different age groups. Both the leukocyte count and sedimentation rate were elevated. Routine roentgenograms were positive for intervertebral disk space narrowing in 82% of cases, technetium bone scans positive in 72%, and magnetic resonance imaging positive in all recent cases. Treatment consisted of bed rest for all patients, plaster casts for 50%, antibiotics for 40%, and traction for 23%. Regardless of the treatment combination, the course of the disease in most children is benign. At the completion of the study, all patients were asymptomatic including three children who had recurrences. In spite of being asymptomatic, 74% had persistent roentgenographic changes. The administration of antibiotics appears to be appropriate when indicated, i.e., failure to respond to immobilization. Disk space aspiration or biopsy should be reserved for those cases that are refractory to immobilization and antibiotics. 
The autotransfusion effect of external leg counterpressure in simulated mild hypovolemia. We examined the cardiovascular response of external leg counterpressure in healthy volunteers at 100 mm Hg compression pressure. To stimulate mild hypovolemia, measurements were made with the subjects in a 60 degrees head-up tilt position. Left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) and cardiac output (CO) were calculated from two-dimensional echocardiography. Flow through the inferior vena cava (IVC) below the origin of the hepatic veins was determined by the Doppler ultrasound technique. The application of counterpressure significantly increased LVEDV, CO, and arterial blood pressure over that seen with tilting without the device. These responses were accompanied by a small but significant increase in IVC flow. We therefore concluded that external leg counterpressure transferred blood to the central circulation by compression of the venous capacitance vessels (an autotransfusion effect) in mild hypovolemia, but such an effect may not benefit patients in a hypovolemic shock state because of the small amount of translocated blood. 
Cardiovascular reflexes and autonomic dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. Cardiovascular reflexes were analysed in a group of 20 patients suffering from Parkinson's disease and in 12 age-matched healthy subjects, in order to ascertain the incidence and degree of autonomic dysfunction. The following were measured: heart rate variation during normal breathing, postural change (30/15 ratio) and during the Valsalva manoeuvre: blood pressure variation after standing. These measurements were taken at least 12 h after therapy had been withdrawn and were repeated after therapy had been resumed. Significant changes in the different heart rate variation indices were found in the parkinsonian patients which correlated with the duration and severity of the extrapyramidal symptomatology. After standing the patients showed a significant drop in blood pressure, when compared respectively with their base values and with the response in controls. Anticholinergic drugs had no significant effect on the heart rate variation indices, whereas antiparkinsonian therapy seems to have contributed to the drop in blood pressure after standing. 
Dysfibrinogenemia associated with thrombosis and third-trimester fetal loss. A case report. Dysfibrinogenemias are rare genetic disorders that are clinically silent, cause a mild bleeding tendency or have thromboembolic manifestations. During pregnancy they often cause hemorrhage and first-trimester abortions. A patient with a severe thrombotic tendency during pregnancy had a third-trimester fetal loss. 
Comparative effects of APSAC and rt-PA on infarct size and left ventricular function in acute myocardial infarction. A multicenter randomized study. BACKGROUND. Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA or alteplase) and anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (APSAC or anistreplase) have been demonstrated to limit infarct size significantly and to preserve left ventricular function when injected soon after acute myocardial infarction. However, as yet, the efficacy and safety of these two thrombolytic agents have not been directly compared in one trial; this was the aim of this study. METHODS AND RESULTS. One hundred eighty-three patients suffering from a first acute myocardial infarction were randomly allocated to either APSAC (30 units over 5 minutes) or single-chain rt-PA (100 mg over a 3-hour period) within 4 hours of the onset of symptoms. Global and regional left ventricular function were assessed from contrast angiography an average of 5.3 +/- 2.3 days after initial therapy. Radionuclide angiography and thallium-201 single-photon emission computerized tomography were performed before hospital discharge. Infarct size was assessed by single-photon emission computerized tomography and expressed in percentage of the total myocardial volume. Ninety patients received APSAC and 93 received rt-PA within a mean period of 172 +/- 52 minutes after the onset of symptoms. The two groups were similar in age, location of the acute myocardial infarction, Killip class, and time of randomization. The patency rate of the infarct-related artery was 72% in the APSAC group and 76% in the rt-PA group (NS). Initial and predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction as well as infarct size were similar in both therapeutic groups (0.50 +/- 0.14 versus 0.52 +/- 0.12 for initial and 0.48 +/- 0.10 versus 0.47 +/- 0.10 for predischarge ejection fraction, 11 +/- 7% versus 9 +/- 7% for infarct size, respectively, for APSAC- and rt-PA-treated patients). Bleeding complications requiring blood transfusion occurred in one APSAC patient and in two rt-PA patients. One patient in the rt-PA group died of a massive intracranial hemorrhage. At the end of the 3-week follow-up period, five APSAC patients (5.5%) and seven rt-PA patients (7.5%) had died. CONCLUSIONS. The early infusion of APSAC or rt-PA in acute myocardial infarction produced a similar patency rate, limitation of infarct size, and preservation of left ventricular systolic function with an equivalent rate of bleeding complications. 
Detection of field change in oral cancer using oral exfoliative cytologic study. Four smears were taken from the normal buccal mucosa of 55 oral cancer patients and 76 cancer-free patients. In each case, two were stained by the Papanicolaou method and two underwent Feulgen hydrolysis. Quantitative assessment of nuclear area (NA) and cytoplasmic area (CA) of the Papanicolaou smears was undertaken using a semiautomatic image analysis system. DNA profiles were assessed from the Feulgen smears using a Vickers M85 microdensitometer (Vickers Instruments, York, England) and were found to be diploid for all patients. Results were then analyzed with respect to those patients who took alcohol, tobacco, combination of alcohol and tobacco, and those who took neither. A significant reduction in CA for the oral cancer group (P equals 0.001) but no change in NA (P equals 0.74) was observed. A detailed analysis of alcohol and tobacco habits could identify no significant role for these two factors, in the reduction in cytoplasmic area. Such field change may prove to be of value in predicting the development of second malignant tumors. 
Fever: knowledge, perception and attitudes. Results from a Norwegian population study. To investigate the layman's knowledge, perception and attitudes regarding normal body temperature, fever, infections and the effect of penicillin on virus infections a representative sample of the Norwegian population (619 women and 592 men over the age of 15) was interviewed in 1988 as part of a monthly national opinion poll. One-third thought body temperatures up to 40.5 degrees C to be life-threatening, but the results do not justify the application of the term 'fever phobia' as described in other studies based on non-representative samples. More respondents were afraid of viral infections (48%) than bacterial infections (9%), which may be due to the media focus upon the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Thirty-five per cent believed penicillin to be effective against virus infections. Educational programmes on fever should also include information about virus infections and their treatment. 
Assessment of response to cancer therapy using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. In order to evaluate the usefulness of 18F-FDG PET in the assessment of therapeutic effects, FDG-PET studies were performed both before and after therapy in 26 patients with miscellaneous malignant tumors. The change in FDG uptake by therapy was compared with the change in tumor size and prognosis. All 26 lesions had a high FDG uptake before therapy. Five of seven lesions which had a relatively low FDG uptake before therapy showed no change or increase in tumor size by therapy. The decreased FDG uptake after therapy was more prominent in the partial response group than in the no change group. FDG uptake before therapy in the non-relapse group was higher than that in the relapse group. However, a decreased FDG uptake did not necessarily indicate a good prognosis. One patient with no change in tumor size and a decreased FDG uptake had no recurrence. This suggests that FDG-PET has a complementary role in the assessment of therapeutic effects. 
Subarachnoid hemorrhage from multiple neurofibromas of the cauda equina: case report. The authors report a case of spinal subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by neurofibromas of the cauda equina. An examination of the literature revealing 13 similar cases and an analysis of this case showing three neurofibromas of the cauda equina prompted an hypothesis emphasizing the origin of bleeding and the difficulties associated with a correct diagnosis. 
Differential effect of compression-ischaemia block on warm sensation and heat-induced pain. The effect of compression-ischaemia nerve block on psychophysical thresholds for warm sensation and heat-induced pain was studied on 19 normal human volunteers. Although those two sensory submodalities should be predicted to block simultaneously, based on the fact that both are served by unmyelinated primary afferents, it was actually found that warm sensation was much more vulnerable to compression-ischaemia than heat-induced pain. This is interpreted as resulting from different summation requirements for each of the two sensory modalities; sensation of warmth depends on spatial summation to a larger extent than heat-induced pain. Such differential vulnerability is in line with recent clinical studies reporting deterioration of warm sensation associated with preservation of heat pain in peripheral nerve disorders caused by diabetes, ageing and other neuropathic processes. 
Acoustic schwannomas in children. The clinical presentation and treatment of three cases of acoustic schwannoma occurring in children are described. All the tumors were detected late, when they had attained a large size and were extremely vascular. The use of preoperative tumor embolization as an adjunct to surgical excision is discussed. 
Hepatofugal arterial signal in the main portal vein: an indicator of intravascular tumor spread. Five patients with thrombosis of the main portal vein underwent Doppler ultrasound (US). Three of these patients had confirmed hepatocellular carcinoma. Doppler US allowed differentiation between bland thrombus and tumor thrombus in two of the three patients. Tumor thrombus of the main portal vein was characterized at US by an intraportal arterial waveform in a hepatofugal direction. 
Differentiation of hydrocephalic calf and human calvariae. Occasionally, partial calvariae of hydrocephalic calves are found in forensic contexts and mistakenly identified as human. Such specimens can be properly identified through immunological assessment of associated soft tissue, microscopic analysis of associated hair, and morphological comparison with documented museum specimens. Morphological comparison should focus on the form of the occiput, supraorbital grooves, and bulbous vault and presence of coronal processes. 
Risk factors for infusion-related phlebitis with small peripheral venous catheters. A randomized controlled trial. OBJECTIVE: To identify risk factors for infusion-related phlebitis with peripheral intravenous catheters. DESIGN: A randomized trial of two catheter materials, with consideration of 21 potential risk factors. SETTING: A university hospital. PATIENTS: Hospitalized adults without granulocytopenia who received a peripheral intravenous catheter. INTERVENTIONS: House officers or ward nurses inserted the catheters, and each insertion was randomized to a catheter made of tetrafluoroethylene-hexafluoropropylene (FEP-Teflon) or a novel polyetherurethane without leachable additives (PEU-Vialon). MEASUREMENTS: Research nurses scored insertion sites each day for inflammation and cultured catheters at removal. RESULTS: The Kaplan-Meier risk for phlebitis exceeded 50% by day 4 after catheterization. intravenous antibiotics (relative risk, 2.00), female sex (relative risk, 1.88), prolonged (greater than 48 hours) catheterization (relative risk, 1.79), and catheter material (PEU-Vialon: FEP-Teflon) (relative risk, 0.73) strongly predicted phlebitis in a Cox proportional hazards model (each, P less than 0.003). The best-fit model for severe phlebitis identified the same predictors plus catheter-related infection (relative risk, 6.19), phlebitis with a previous catheter (relative risk, 1.54), and anatomic site (hand: forearm, relative risk, 0.71; wrist:forearm, relative risk, 0.60). The low incidence of local catheter-related infection was comparable with the two catheter materials (5.4% [95% CI, 3.8% to 7.6%] and 6.9% [CI, 4.9% to 9.6%]); none of the 1054 catheters prospectively studied caused bacteremia. CONCLUSIONS: Multiple factors, including the infusate and the duration of cannulation, contribute to the development of infusion-related phlebitis. The use of peripheral intravenous catheters made of PEU-Vialon appears to pose the same risk for catheter-related infection as the use of catheters made of FEP-Teflon, and PEU-Vialon can permit longer cannulation with less risk for phlebitis. The risk for catheter-related bacteremia with FEP-Teflon and PEU-Vialon catheters is sufficiently low that it no longer seems justifiable to recommend the use of small steel needles for most peripheral intravenous therapy. 
Surgical depilation for the treatment of pseudofolliculitis or local hirsutism of the face: experience in the first 40 patients. Forty patients underwent surgical depilation for pseudofolliculitis barbae or local hirsutism of the face during a 15-year period. The operative method and its results and pitfalls are discussed. Although it is not the treatment of choice, this operation is very useful when other therapy has not been successful. This seems especially true in male-to-female transsexuals. 
Muscle structure and performance capacity of Himalayan Sherpas. The ultrastructure of the vastus lateralis muscle of Sherpas from Nepal [5 males; age 28 +/- 2.8 (SD) yr, indirect maximal O2 consumption 48.5 +/- 5.4 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)] was assessed and compared with those of sedentary lowlanders and of Caucasian climbers before and after high-altitude exposure. The mean cross-sectional area of the fibers was 3,186 +/- 521 microns2, i.e., similar to those of Caucasian elite high-altitude climbers (3,108 +/- 303 microns2) and a group of climbers after a 6- to 8-wk sojourn at 5,000-8,600 m (3,360 +/- 580 microns2) but significantly (P less than 0.05) smaller than that of unacclimatized climbers (4,170 +/- 710 microns2) and slightly, although not significantly, lower than that of sedentary lowlanders (3,640 +/- 260 microns2). The number of capillaries per square millimeter of muscle cross section was 467 +/- 22, not significantly smaller than those of climbers on return from a Himalayan expedition (538 +/- 89) and elite high-altitude climbers (542 +/- 127) but significantly (P less than 0.05) greater than that of sedentary lowlanders (387 +/- 25). The volume density of mitochondria was 3.96 +/- 0.54%, significantly (P less than 0.05) less than the values found for any other investigated group, including sedentary subjects at sea level (4.74 +/- 0.30%). It is concluded that Sherpas, like acclimatized Caucasian climbers, are characterized by 1) facilitated convective and diffusive muscle O2 flow conditions and 2) a higher maximal O2 consumption-to-mitochondrial volume ratio than lowlanders despite a reduced mitochondrial volume density. 
Test-retest reliability of isokinetic knee extension and flexion torque measurements in persons with spastic hemiparesis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the test-retest reliability of isokinetic torque measurements in the involved and uninvolved knee musculature of 20 subjects with spastic hemiparesis. An isokinetic dynamometer was used to measure maximal voluntary knee extension and flexion at 60 degrees and 120 degrees/s. Peak torque (PT) and average peak torque (APT) data were collected from five repetitions on two separate occasions. Average peak torque was defined as the mean of the PT values obtained during each of the five repetitions. Spasticity was measured in the involved knee musculature prior to isokinetic testing using the Ashworth Scale. Pearson Product-Moment Correlation Coefficients and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were high (greater than or equal to .90) for both knees for PT and APT at both angular velocities. No clinically meaningful differences were found between the Pearson correlation coefficients and the ICCs of the involved versus the uninvolved knee for any testing conditions. We concluded that isokinetic evaluation of torque, as measured by PT and APT in subjects with spastic hemiparesis, can yield reliable results in both extremities. 
Thrombogenic microballoon for cerebral aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and carotid cavernous fistula occlusion. Preliminary technical note. A thrombogenic microballoon was developed to overcome the problems of cerebral aneurysm rupture during microballoon inflation and incomplete aneurysm obliteration by microballoons with subsequent fatal rupture. These complications occur in about 35% of reported series with current microballoon embolization techniques. The wall of the new thrombogenic microballoon allows 80% aneurysm occlusion by inflation, thus avoiding mechanical rupture, and at the same time it produces a blood clot in the space remaining between the microballoon and the aneurysm wall. This clot undergoes fibrosis with firm adherence of the microballoon to the aneurysm wall. Experimental evidence is presented to support these conclusions. This thrombogenic microballoon system is also applicable to carotid-cavernous fistulas and arteriovenous malformations. 
Resternotomy in patients with valved conduits adherent to the sternum. Twenty-two patients with valved conduits adherent to the sternum underwent resternotomy. Mean age was 10 +/- 6 years, and mean conduit age was 4 +/- 4 years. Diagnoses were D-transposition (7), truncus arteriosus (7), univentricular heart (6), Taussig-Bing anomaly (1), and corrected transposition (1). The majority of patients (68%) had reoperation for outgrown or degenerated conduits. In 17 patients, the sternum was opened with a chisel. Two of these patients sustained conduit neointimal collapse from manipulation, and 3 had conduit tear requiring immediate cardiopulmonary bypass through the femoral vessels. In the last 5 patients, the sternum was opened above and below the conduit, and the inner table was chiseled and left attached to the conduit avoiding injury and undue conduit manipulation. Cardiopulmonary bypass and operation were carried out uneventfully. We believe that the recent technique described provides a safe alternative approach to valved conduits adherent to the sternum. 
Dynamic QRS-complex and ST-segment monitoring in acute myocardial infarction during recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator therapy. The TEAHAT Study Group. Changes of the QRS complex are the electrocardiographic expression of irreversible injury of the myocardium. In humans, the process of infarction occurs over several hours. A more rapid development of QRS changes has been reported in patients treated with thrombolytic agents. Patients with strongly suspected acute myocardial infarction (AMI) included in a placebo-controlled trial of 100 mg of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) were monitored for 24 hours with continuous, on-line vectorcardiography. The magnitude of the QRS vector changes correlated with infarct size estimated by the maximal value of lactate dehydrogenase-1 (r = 0.69, p less than 0.001) as well as with left ventricular ejection fraction 30 days after randomization (r = 0.49, p less than 0.001). Treatment with intravenous rt-PA limited total QRS vector change but the QRS vector changes observed occurred more rapidly and reached a plateau 131 minutes earlier in patients treated with rt-PA than in those receiving placebo (p less than 0.01). A certain pattern of highly variable ST vector magnitude was identified and was associated with higher maximal lactate dehydrogenase-1 values (23 +/- 13 vs 14 +/- 10 mu kat/liter, p less than 0.001) and a tendency to higher 1-year mortality (24 vs 9%, p = 0.08) than in patients without this pattern. In patients with this pattern, rt-PA did not affect maximal lactate dehydrogenase-1, time to maximal creatine kinase and final magnitude of QRS vector change. 
Peripheral pulse pressure patterns in pregnancy hypertension. Maternal heart rate and pulse pressure patterns were examined in 30 hypertensive pregnant women using noninvasive methodology described previously. "Narrow" and "wide" pulse patterns were identified. Narrow cutaneous pulse pressure patterns, which are thought to be caused by vasoconstriction, were associated with lower birth weight infants (1870 +/- 983 versus 3225 +/- 838 g; P less than .001) and earlier deliveries (34.2 +/- 5.2 versus 37.9 +/- 2.8 weeks; P less than .05). The data suggest that these adjunctive maternal cardiovascular-system evaluation techniques may be useful in identifying patients at risk of adverse perinatal outcome by detecting vasospasm of the peripheral microcirculation. 
Detection of paradoxical cerebral echo contrast embolization by transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Contrast echocardiography has been shown to be a sensitive method for detecting patent foramen ovale in embolic stroke, implying paradoxical embolization. However, not all two-dimensional echocardiographic studies are of diagnostic quality, and direct evidence for paradoxical cerebral embolization remains lacking. We addressed these problems by simultaneously using transcranial Doppler ultrasound and contrast echocardiography to compare relative sensitivity and concordance in the detection of right-to-left vascular shunting. Forty-six patients with stroke, transient neurologic defect, or question of atrial septal defect underwent study at rest and during Valsalva strain. Two-dimensional echocardiography detected shunting in 26% at rest and 15% during Valsalva strain, whereas transcranial Doppler study returned rates of 41% and 41%, respectively. Concordance was 82% and 75%, respectively. Discordant studies almost always had evidence of paradoxical contrast embolization by transcranial Doppler and intermediate findings by two-dimensional echocardiography. Transcranial Doppler is a sensitive, unambiguous technique for the detection of anatomic substrates and target organ involvement in patients suspected to have paradoxical cerebral embolization. 
Effect of intrathecal fibrinolytic therapy on clot lysis and vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. A prospective series of 30 patients with a single, angiographically verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was studied for the effect of intrathecal thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) on outcome, angiographic vasospasm, and computerized tomography (CT) findings after surgery. The patients included fulfilled the following criteria: operation was performed by Day 3 after the hemorrhage, CT showed only blood in the basal cisterns, and the patient had a single aneurysm or multiple aneurysms that could be treated surgically at the same operation. The patients were divided into groups of 10, with patients receiving 3, 10, or 13 mg of rt-PA in a single intracisternal injection at the end of the operation. There were no differences between the treatment groups in overall outcome. One patient from the 3-mg rt-PA group developed a postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage, and one patient from the 10-mg rt-PA group had a postoperative epidural hematoma. There was one death in the 13-mg rt-PA group that was caused by inclusion of a segment of pericallosal artery in the clip. In all treatment groups a reduction was observed in the amount of blood seen on the postoperative CT scans compared to the preoperative CT scans. The reduction in SAH grade between the 10-mg and 13-mg rt-PA groups was significant (p less than 0.05). The difference in the severity of angiographic vasospasm between the 3-mg and 13-mg rt-PA groups was also significant (p less than 0.05). 
Intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy for retroperitoneal soft tissue sarcoma. From December 1981 to December 1989, 20 patients with primary or recurrent retroperitoneal sarcoma received 4000 to 5000 cGy of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in conjunction with surgical resection and intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT). Seventeen of 20 patients underwent complete (14 patients) or partial (3 patients) resection. Three patients had shown evidence of metastases after EBRT by the time of surgery. The 4-year actuarial local control and disease-free survival rates of the 17 patients undergoing resection were 81% and 64%, respectively. Twelve patients received IORT at the time of resection for microscopic disease (10 patients) or gross residual sarcoma (2 patients). Of the ten patients receiving IORT for microscopic tumor, one patient has died of local failure and peritoneal sarcomatosis and two patients have died of distant metastases only. The remaining seven patients are disease-free. One patient treated for gross residual sarcoma has experienced a local failure 1 year after IORT and is without disease 7 years after salvage chemotherapy. The other patient treated for gross residual sarcoma has died of local failure. Five patients did not receive IORT at the time of resection because of the extensive size of the tumor bed. Three of these patients are disease-free with one patient alive with lung metastases and one patient dying of hepatic metastases. Aggressive radiation and surgical procedures appear to provide satisfactory resectability and local control with acceptable tolerance. 
Meningioma: the role of a foreign body and irradiation in tumor formation. A case of meningioma is reported. At the age of 18 years, the patient had undergone insertion of a Torkildsen shunt through a posteroparietal burr hole for obstructive hydrocephalus secondary to a tumor of the pineal region, of which no biopsy had been made. After the hydrocephalus was relieved, he underwent irradiation of the tumor. Thirty years later, he was treated for an intracranial meningioma wrapped around the shunt. The tumor followed the shunt in all of its intracranial course. Microscopy disclosed pieces of the shunt tube within the meningioma. The role of a foreign body and irradiation in the induction of meningiomas is discussed, and a comprehensive review of the literature is presented. 
Quantitation of the critically ischemic zone at risk during acute coronary occlusion using PET. Critical myocardial ischemia has been defined experimentally during acute coronary occlusion as flow reduction of 50% or more since cellular ATP depletion begins to occur beyond this flow reduction threshold, placing tissue at risk of cellular injury. To test the hypothesis that critically ischemic fractional left ventricular mass can be measured noninvasively with PET, nine dogs were imaged in a multi-slice positron camera using the perfusion tracer 13N-ammonia, while radiolabeled microspheres were injected into the left atrium during acute coronary occlusion. Images were processed using a 50% threshold and the size of the resulting perfusion defect was expressed as a fraction of total left ventricular image volume. The critically ischemic left ventricular fraction determined in vitro from the microsphere perfusion data, ranged from 5% to 30% of the total left ventricular weight and correlated closely with that determined noninvasively by PET with r = 0.94 (y = 1.05X - 2.0%). We conclude that the fraction of left ventricular myocardium rendered critically ischemic during acute coronary occlusion can be measured accurately and noninvasively in vivo using perfusion imaging with positron emission tomography. 
Progressive deterioration of auditory evoked potentials after excision of an acoustic neurinoma: case report. The authors report the case of a 17-year-old girl who underwent excision of bilateral neurinomas of the cerebellopontine angle. Although her auditory evoked potentials were well maintained during the operation, they deteriorated gradually and progressively for the following 2 months. This seemed to reflect degeneration of the cochlear nerve fibers initiated by operative manipulation in the cerebellopontine angle in a patient who had no hearing when she awoke from surgery. 
Diffuse pulmonary hemorrhage. Diffuse pulmonary hemorrhage is a syndrome consisting of hemoptysis, anemia, and air-space consolidation. The radiologic appearance is non-specific. Pulmonary hemorrhage may be due to a number of different causes. The differential diagnosis and the diagnostic approach are different in the immunologically intact host as compared with the immunocompromised host. This article reviews the main diagnostic considerations in diffuse pulmonary hemorrhage. 
Gonococcal endocarditis complicating pregnancy: a case report and literature review. The incidence of gonorrhea has decreased substantially in the past decade. Disseminated gonorrhea is more common in women than in men, although gonococcal endocarditis is more common in men. Disseminated gonorrhea is most commonly described in women during menses or pregnancy. Only two cases of gonococcal endocarditis during pregnancy have been reported in the literature since 1942. We report a patient who experienced sudden hemodynamic decompensation at 30 weeks' gestation, resulting in fetal death. Aortic valve replacement was performed, but extensive involvement of the aortic root made complete eradication of infection impossible and eventually resulted in maternal death. 
Biomechanical changes at the ankle joint after stroke. The resistance of the relaxed ankle to slow displacement over the joint movement range was measured on both sides of a group of hemiparetic stroke patients, in whom spasticity had been established for at least one year and who showed no clinical signs of contractures. The ankle joints of the age-matched normal subjects were flexible over most of the movement range, showing dramatically increasing stiffness only when the foot was dorsiflexed beyond 70 degrees, with a neutral range between 90-100 degrees, and a less dramatic increase in stiffness during plantarflexion. Hemiparetic patients showed identical curves to the normal subjects on the "healthy" side, ipsilateral to the causative cerebral lesion, but were significantly stiffer in dorsiflexion on the contralateral side, without change in the minimum stiffness range or during plantarflexion. Therefore significant changes in passive biomechanical properties occur at the affected ankle of hemiparetic subjects, predominantly as the result of a loss of compliance in the Achilles tendon, although an increase in the passive stiffness of the triceps surae may also occur. The contribution of these changes to the locomotor disability of hemiparetic patients is discussed. 
Multichannel cochlear implant and electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses in a child with labyrinthitis ossificans. Ossification of the cochlea following meningitis presents a surgical challenge. Electrode mapping, especially in the young child, is difficult given the uncertainty of electrode contact with viable neural elements. This paper reviews surgical technique and the use of auditory brainstem responses to map the electrodes. A 4-year-old child deafened by meningitis at age 20 months had bilateral cochlear ossification by computed tomography. At surgery, a canal wall-down mastoidectomy and closure of the ear canal were performed. A trough around the modiolus was drilled, and the electrode array was placed in it. Post-operatively, the patient gave aversive or no responses to electrode stimulation. To assess electrode function, auditory brainstem responses to individual electrode activation were obtained under general anesthesia. Functioning electrodes could thus be selected for mapping. The patient now responds well to sound. 
Left ventricular diastolic collapse. An echocardiographic sign of regional cardiac tamponade. BACKGROUND. Cardiac tamponade after cardiac surgical procedures is often associated with hemodynamically significant localized pericardial effusions. The localized collection of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period and the atypical presentation of cardiac tamponade limit the use of conventional clinical and echocardiographic signs usually seen with a circumferential pericardial effusion. Observation of left ventricular diastolic collapse in the echocardiogram of a patient with postoperative regional cardiac tamponade prompted us to explore the frequency of this sign in regional cardiac tamponade. METHODS AND RESULTS. We retrospectively analyzed the echocardiograms of 18 patients with postoperative cardiac tamponade for the following echocardiographic findings: right atrial collapse, right ventricular diastolic collapse, left atrial collapse, and left ventricular diastolic collapse. Three of the 18 patients had circumferential pericardial effusion, and 15 had loculated pericardial effusion; in 10, the effusion was predominantly posterior, and in the other five, it extended laterally or inferiorly. The conventional echocardiographic signs of cardiac tamponade such as right atrial collapse, right ventricular diastolic collapse, and left atrial collapse were present in only 3, 1, and 3 of these 15 patients, respectively, but all exhibited left ventricular diastolic collapse. Increasing pressure within the compartment of a loculated pericardial effusion reaching the limit of pericardial distensibility and consequent transient reversal of transmural left ventricular pressure during diastole are most likely the basis for diastolic collapse of the thick-walled ventricle in a setting of regional cardiac tamponade. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that left ventricular diastolic collapse is a frequent sign of regional cardiac tamponade and could be a useful marker of tamponade in postoperative patients. 
Percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty of stenotic standard Blalock-Taussig shunts: effect on choice of initial palliation in cyanotic congenital heart disease. To date, attempted balloon dilation of stenotic standard Blalock-Taussig shunts has been largely disappointing. It has been suggested that this may be due to the use of balloons of insufficient diameter. Balloon dilation of stenotic Blalock-Taussig shunts was attempted with use of relatively large balloons in five patients (11 to 67 months old) with cyanotic heart disease who were becoming progressively cyanotic and polycythemic (hemoglobin 17.9 +/- 1.1 g/dl) because of discrete shunt stenosis at the site of pulmonary anastomosis. Balloon diameters selected were equal to or within 1 mm of the unobstructed proximal shunt diameter. Before balloon dilation the diameter at the site of the stenosis was 2.8 +/- 0.8 mm (range 1.7 to 4); after balloon dilation it was 5.7 +/- 1.1 mm (range 4.5 to 7.5). The diameter increased in all patients (range 2.0 to 3.5 mm); the mean increase was 2.8 +/- 0.2 mm (p less than 0.005). Expressed as a percent, the increase in diameter at the stenosis ranged from 80% to 182.4% (mean 108.2 +/- 16.8%). Before balloon dilation the systemic oxygen saturation was 72.8 +/- 9.2% (range 55% to 80%) and after balloon dilation it was 83.6 +/- 2.9% (range 80% to 87%). A satisfactory increase (range 6% to 25%) in blood oxygen saturation was seen in all patients; the mean increase was 10.8 +/- 3.2% (p less than 0.01). At follow-up, the oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry was 85.8 +/- 2.9% (mean 5.8 +/- 1.7 months after balloon dilation) and the hemoglobin was 15.6 +/- 1.9 g/dl (mean 6.6 +/- 1.5 months after balloon dilation). 
Access to neurological care for minorities. Minority groups comprise a major segment of the estimated more than 34 million Americans without insurance coverage and also the underinsured. Neurologic disease and neurologic complications of the major causes of morbidity and mortality affect minorities protracted by limited access to health care. Hypertension, a major cause of stroke in the black population, is just one example of the impact of accessibility to intervention in central nervous system disease. Health statistics note the persisting gap between minority groups and the nation's norms for life expectancy. Aging America and particularly black elderly women, combined with the lagging infant mortality among minority groups, demonstrate limited access issues beyond economics, reflecting inner city mores, cultural barriers, and communication delay limiting contact with the practicing neurologist. Awareness of such access limitations to neurological care for minorities demands the attention of the practicing neurologist and the neurological societies. 
Cerebral infarction in young people. A study of 148 patients with early cerebral angiography. The aetiology of strokes was studied in a hospital based series of patients aged up to 40 years with precise clinical and radiological criteria. One hundred and forty five patients (75 males and 73 females) aged five to 40 years with cerebral ischaemia were evaluated. Aetiology was heterogeneous and could be classified into seven groups. Cerebral arteriograms were performed in all cases and indicated the aetiological diagnosis in most patients. Embolism was the most frequent recognised abnormality (38.4%). There were no complications of arteriography. Arterial dissections discovered by arteriography were the cause of the stroke in 10.1% of the patients. Atherosclerosis was diagnosed in 32 cases and was the commonest cause (21.6%). In one fifth of cases no cause was found. Contraceptive drugs were considered as potential cause of ischaemic stroke in 11.5%, cardiac diseases in 12.8% and haematological disorders in 8.1%. Other potential causes included migraine, inflammatory diseases, pregnancy and lacunas. Follow up in 126 cases showed that many patients had good functional recovery. 
Arthrodesis of the knee with an intramedullary nail. The cases of twenty patients who had an arthrodesis in which an intramedullary nail was used for stabilization were reviewed at an average follow-up of six years. The predominant indications were infection after total knee arthroplasty and post-traumatic pain and instability. Other indications included aseptic loosening of the components of a total knee arthroplasty, reconstruction after resection of a giant-cell tumor, non-union of a fracture of the distal part of the femur or the proximal part of the tibia, and failed external-compression arthrodesis. Success was achieved in seventeen patients (85 per cent), and functional stability immediately postoperatively was gained in all twenty. Of the three patients in whom the arthrodesis failed, all had sustained an intraoperative fracture, and infection eventually developed. Of the twelve nails that were secured to the greater trochanter with a loop of stainless-steel wire, none showed evidence of proximal migration. Of the eight nails that were not thus secured, two migrated proximally, necessitating removal of the nail. Two drawbacks to this operation are the long duration and the large amount of blood that is lost. The major advantage is that a high percentage of patients have progression to a stable fusion despite serious problems. Furthermore, all but seven patients (including the six who had a tumor or who had sustained an intraoperative fracture) were able to bear full weight by the second postoperative week. Only a few patients needed an external support for walking. 
Role of thromboxane and serotonin as mediators in the development of spontaneous alterations in coronary blood flow and neointimal proliferation in canine models with chronic coronary artery stenoses and endothelial injury. Platelet-mediated obstruction of stenotic and endothelium-injured coronary arteries may be important in the abrupt progression from chronic stable to unstable coronary heart disease syndromes in patients. Transcardiac accumulation of thromboxane A2 and serotonin has been demonstrated in patients as chronic stable angina is converted to unstable angina. In this study in anesthetized open chest dogs with coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury, thromboxane A2 and serotonin were shown to be important mediators of intermittent coronary obstruction caused by platelet aggregation and dynamic vasoconstriction. Furthermore, thromboxane A2 synthesis inhibitors and receptor antagonists and serotonin receptor antagonists, singly and together, provided substantial protection against repetitive platelet aggregation and dislodgment in canine models with coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury even when systemic catecholamine concentrations were markedly elevated. These same observations apply in chronically instrumented, awake, unsedated dogs with coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury in which recurrent platelet attachment and dislodgment cause cyclic flow alterations that may be prevented by thromboxane A2 synthesis inhibitors and receptor antagonists and serotonin receptor antagonists. Chronically instrumented dogs with coronary stenosis and endothelial injury in which recurrent platelet attachment and dislodgment occurred also developed neointimal proliferation of varying severity within 10 days to 3 weeks; the morphologic appearance of the neointimal proliferation was identical to that found in patients who develop restenosis after coronary angioplasty. 
Substitution of leucine for isoleucine in a sequence highly conserved among retroviral envelope surface glycoproteins attenuates the lytic effect of the Friend murine leukemia virus. Friend murine leukemia virus is a replication-competent retrovirus that contains no oncogene and that exerts lytic and leukemogenic properties. Thus, newborn mice inoculated with Friend murine leukemia virus develop severe early hemolytic anemia before appearance of erythroleukemia. To identify the retroviral determinants regulating these effects, we used chimeric infectious constructions and site-directed point mutations between a virulent Friend murine leukemia virus strain and a naturally occurring variant attenuated in lytic and leukemogenic effects. We found that severe hemolytic anemia was always associated with higher numbers of blood reticulocytes with budding retroviral particles. Furthermore, a remarkably conservative leucine to isoleucine change in the extracellular SU component of the retroviral envelope was sufficient to attenuate this lytic effect. Also, this leucine at position 348 of the envelope precursor protein was located within the only stretch of five amino acids that is conserved in the extracellular SU component of all murine, feline, and primate type C and type D retroviral envelopes. This observation suggested an important structural function for this yet undescribed conserved sequence of the envelope. Lastly, we observed that lytic and leukemogenic effects were attenuated by a deletion of a second repeat in the transcriptional enhancer region of the viral long terminal repeats of the variant strain. 
Mesonephric rest hyperplasia. A potential diagnostic pitfall. A case of mesonephric rest hyperplasia, an incidental finding in the hysterectomy specimen of a 48-year-old woman, was initially misdiagnosed as a well-differentiated cervical adenocarcinoma. We highlight the histologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical features of this potential diagnostic pitfall and review the relevant literature. 
Coarctation: do we need to resect ductal tissue? A review of the literature as well as a retrospective review of 100 neonates undergoing operation for coarctation at Children's Hospital in Boston between 1972 and 1984 has not established clear superiority for either resection and end-to-end anastomosis or subclavian flap aortoplasty with respect to risk of recurrent coarctation. However, there is histological evidence that the juxtaductal coarctation shelf is composed of smooth muscle of ductal origin, which subsequently fibroses. This abnormal tissue may be at risk for late aneurysm development, particularly if balloon dilatation angioplasty is required. The fact that this abnormal tissue is not removed by the subclavian flap procedure is one of the inherent disadvantages of that procedure. Other disadvantages include the need to sacrifice the left subclavian artery and the fact that, unlike resection and end-to-end anastomosis, the subclavian flap procedure does not lend itself to augmentation of the hypoplastic distal aortic arch. Furthermore, occasionally a secondary coarctation membrane is present within the distal aortic arch, and though it is readily detected during the resection procedure, it can be missed with the subclavian flap procedure. Based on these considerations rather than on a demonstrated superiority of either procedure, my colleagues and I currently prefer resection and end-to-end anastomosis over subclavian flap aortoplasty. 
Circus movement atrial flutter in canine sterile pericarditis model. Activation patterns during entrainment and termination of single-loop reentry in vivo. BACKGROUND. Recently, we used a custom designed "jacket" electrode with 127 bipolar electrodes in a flexible nylon matrix to map the total atrial epicardial surface in the in situ canine heart. Atrial flutter in dogs with sterile pericarditis was shown to be due to a single wave front circulating around a combined functional/anatomic obstacle, with the arc of functional conduction block contiguous with one or more of the atrial vessels. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the present study, this model was used to analyze the activation pattern during pacing-induced entrainment and termination of single reentrant loops in a syncytium without anatomically predetermined pathways. Sustained atrial flutter was induced in five dogs with 3-5-day-old sterile pericarditis. Atrial pacing at a cycle length 5-30 msec shorter than the spontaneous cycle length entrained the arrhythmia and could result in a "classical" activation pattern, characterized by an antidromic stimulated wave that collided with the reentrant orthodromic wave front of the previous beat at a constant site. However, two variations of this classical activation pattern were also observed: 1) Pacing at short cycle lengths could lead to localized conduction block in antidromic direction, forcing a change in the pathway of the antidromic wave front. This could prevent the expected shift of the site of collision in antidromic direction. 2) The stimulated orthodromic wave front could also use a pathway different from that of the original reentrant impulse, so that a different circuit was active during the pacing period. Termination of atrial flutter by rapid atrial stimulation was associated with progressive slowing and finally blocking of the paced orthodromic wave front and a progressive shift of the site of collision in antidromic direction. The occurrence of conduction block was determined by the cycle length of stimulation and the number of stimulated beats. A longer train at the critical cycle length or the critical number of beats at a shorter cycle length could reinduce the same reentrant circuit or a different reentrant circuit, respectively, during stimulated cycles following the beat that terminated reentry. CONCLUSIONS. The epicardial activation sequence during entrainment of reentrant arrhythmias does not necessarily follow a standard activation pattern. Instead, the stimulated orthodromic as well as the antidromic wave front might use a pathway different from that of the original reentrant wave front. The mechanisms of termination, failure of termination, and reinitiation of single-loop reentry are similar to those in the "figure-eight" reentrant circuit. 
The use of nasal calcitonin in the treatment of post-traumatic algodystrophy. Calcitonin is widely used in the treatment of algodystrophy but a major disadvantage is the need for its parenteral administration. For this reason, we evaluated the effect of 400 iu of nasal calcitonin in the treatment of post-traumatic algodystrophy in a prospective randomized double-blind study. We found no demonstrable effect on the clinical or skeletal progression of the disorder using sensitive methods of measuring the response to treatment. There was, however, a small but significant hypocalcaemic response in the treatment group despite no change in the other indices of bone turnover. Possible reasons for this lack of clinical and skeletal effect are discussed. 
Blunt traumatic bladder rupture: the role of retrograde cystogram. STUDY OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the importance of microscopic and gross hematuria and the role of retrograde cystography and computed tomography (CT) in the diagnosis of blunt traumatic bladder rupture. DESIGN: All cases at a Level I trauma center between January 1, 1986, and March 31, 1989, were reviewed retrospectively. SETTING: Level I trauma center, university hospital. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: All patients with acute blunt abdominal trauma admitted to this Level I trauma center. INTERVENTIONS: The patients' charts were reviewed with emphasis on mode of diagnosis, treatment, and outcome. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-one patients had bladder rupture. All 21 had hematuria with more than 50 RBCs/high-power field, 17 gross and four microscopic. Twenty patients underwent retrograde cystography, which accurately identified bladder rupture, and one was found at laparotomy for other injuries. Seven patients had CT of the abdomen and pelvis, which failed to demonstrate bladder rupture. There were no associated urethral injuries in any of the patients with bladder rupture. CONCLUSION: Significant (more than 50 RBCs/high-power field) hematuria is the principal indication for evaluation for blunt bladder injury, and retrograde cystography is the diagnostic procedure of choice. CT is neither sensitive nor specific enough as primary diagnostic modality. 
A novel mutation in the invariant AG of the acceptor splice site of intron 4 of the beta-hexosaminidase alpha-subunit gene in two unrelated American black GM2-gangliosidosis (Tay-Sachs disease) patients. Samples of genomic DNA from three unrelated American black infants having both biochemical and clinical features of classical infantile Tay-Sachs disease were sequenced following PCR amplification. A G----T transversion was observed in the AG acceptor splice site preceding exon 5 of the beta-hexosaminidase alpha-subunit gene in the first black family. This transversion changed the acceptor splice site from the consensus sequence, AG, to AT, thereby interfering with splicing at this intron 4/exon 5 junction. The proband was homozygous for this mutation; his mother and a brother are heterozygous. The same mutation was found in a second, apparently unrelated, black GM2-gangliosidosis patient. The second patient was a compound heterozygote, as only one allele carried this mutation. The mother and a brother in this second family are carriers for this mutation, while the father and a noncarrier sister are normal for this region of the gene. The third proband did not have this mutation; nor did the mother of a fourth black proband. Eight other independently ascertained non-black, non-Jewish, GM2-gangliosidosis families did not have this mutation. The observation of the same novel mutation in two unrelated black GM2-gangliosidosis patients indicates that the American black population has segregating within it at least one GM2-gangliosidosis mutation which may be specific to this population and not a result of migration. 
Bopindolol: Czechoslovak experience with a new beta blocker in the treatment of hypertension. Bopindolol is a nonselective beta blocker with mild intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. One of the drug's main benefits is its prolonged effect, lasting for 24 hours, which makes it possible to administer bopindolol in a single daily dose, a fact that may improve patient adherence to therapy. A double-blind study was performed in two centers, comparing bopindolol with metoprolol in 86 hypertensive patients. Baseline diastolic blood pressure (BP) was 100 to 120 mm Hg. The effects of bopindolol or metoprolol on BP and heart rate were similar: return to normal values was achieved in 70% of patients with either drug. A 6-month study at another center found that bopindolol did not affect the levels of total cholesterol, low-density and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol or triglycerides. Another 12-month study documented a decrease in total cholesterol, apolipoprotein (apo) A1 and apo B. The apo A/B ratio rose, thus improving the atherosclerotic index. No deterioration of glucose tolerance or immunoreactive insulin response to glucose was seen after 6 months of bopindolol administration. Bopindolol satisfactorily modifies not only resting but also exercise BP during isometric and isotonic load, thus reducing BP fluctuation during physical activities of the hypertensive patient. The drug exerts no effect on renal and liver function, electrolyte balance and hematologic parameters. Bopindolol is a very useful drug of first choice in mild and moderate hypertension. Bopindolol's main advantages include its prolonged action, good tolerance and a beneficial effect on risk factors of atherosclerosis (lipid and carbohydrate metabolism). 
Short and long term outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in unstable versus stable angina pectoris: a report of the 1985-1986 NHLBI PTCA Registry. In a cohort of 1,720 consecutive patients from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) Registry (August 1985-May 1986), we compared 768 patients (45%) with stable angina and 952 patients (55%) with unstable angina pectoris. Unstable angina patients exhibited at least one of the following characteristics: new onset angina, rapidly progressing angina, angina at rest, angina refractory to medication, variant angina, acute coronary insufficiency, or angina recurring shortly after an acute myocardial infarct. The distribution of single- and multi-vessel disease was similar among stable and unstable angina patients; multi-vessel disease predominated. Average severity of stenosis and incidence of tubular and diffuse stenosis morphology were higher among patients with unstable angina (both p less than 0.001). Patient success rates were similar in stable and unstable patients. However, on a per lesion basis, overall angiographic success rate and average reduction of severity of stenosis in successfully dilated lesions were significantly higher among patients with unstable angina (both p less than 0.001). Incidence of major patient complications (p less than 0.01) and of emergency coronary bypass surgery (p less than 0.05) were also higher in patients with unstable angina but consistent with their more precarious clinical condition and stenosis morphology. During a two year follow-up, the cumulative distributions of death, myocardial infarct, repeat PTCA, and coronary bypass surgery were not significantly different in patients with stable angina compared to patients with unstable angina. Comparison of the current PTCA Registry cohort with the cases reported in the 1979-1982 Registry revealed a 19% higher success rate for both stable and unstable angina patients. Major complication rates decreased between time periods for stable but not for unstable angina patients. Incidence of emergency bypass surgery decreased more for stable than for unstable angina patients. Coronary angioplasty is indicated in properly selected patients with unstable angina and both single- and multi-vessel coronary disease. 
Experimental treatment of thrombotic vascular occlusion. The role of laser energy in the treatment of thrombotic vascular occlusion was evaluated in two sets of experiments. First, 10 polytetrafluoroethylene grafts were used to replace segments of the superficial femoral arteries in dogs and were thrombosed by distal ligation. Occlusion was maintained for one hour, or for 7, 14, 21, and 28 days in each of two grafts. Patency was restored in all 10 grafts without perforation or anastomotic disruption using a 2 mm hot tip probe powered by an Argon laser. However, increased organization of thrombus related to the duration of occlusion lead to decreased laser channel diameters, and 75% of the 28 day thrombus remained in the graft after recanalization. The second experiments tested the added benefit of thrombolytic infusion following laser recanalization. Bilateral external iliac artery thrombosis was induced in dogs by operative vessel isolation, de-endothelialization, and thrombin injection. At 7 days the efficacy of laser-assisted thrombolysis (LAT) versus enzymatic thrombolysis (ET) alone was compared. Eight vessels underwent ET by urokinase (4000 I.U./min.); 14 vessels were laser recanalized prior to thrombolytic infusion. LAT was performed from a carotid artery approach in 8 vessels (antegrade) and from a femoral artery in 6 vessels (retrograde). In contrast to studies using the hot tip alone, both ET and LAT accomplished complete thrombus removal. However, LAT lead to significant iliac arterial flow in 9 +/- 8 min. (antegrade) and 25 +/- 8 min. (retrograde) while ET required 109 +/- 47 min (p less than 0.01). 
Fetal akinesia deformation sequence (Pena-Shokeir phenotype) associated with acquired intrauterine brain damage. An infant with Pena-Shokeir phenotype was born to a cocaine-using mother. The pathologic findings included polyhydramnios, facial anomalies, arthrogryposis, camptodactyly, pulmonary hypoplasia, and tetralogy of Fallot. The neuropathologic findings were diffuse brainstem and spinal cord neuronal degeneration and focal cerebral infarction, consistent with acquired intrauterine ischemic damage. 
The infectious and hematologic otolaryngic complications of myelosuppressive cancer chemotherapy. The otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon is frequently consulted to evaluate patients before the administration of myelosuppressive cancer chemotherapy. Fifty consecutive patients treated at the University of Pennsylvania Oncology Center were studied before and during chemotherapy for adult leukemia or bone marrow transplantation. Otolaryngic history, physical examination, radiographic studies, and hematologic surveys were analyzed for the duration of therapy in an attempt to identify risk factors for infectious and hematologic otolaryngic complications. Two-thirds of the patient studied experienced untoward effects that required the further attention of an otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon. The various complications and associated correlations with the study parameters before and during chemotherapy are discussed. 
Elevated plasma chromogranin-A concentrations in prostatic carcinoma. Chromogranin-A is considered a sensitive immunohistochemical tissue marker in neuroendocrine prostatic carcinoma. We report that the plasma chromogranin-A level was elevated in 48% of 25 patients with stage D2 prostate cancer, and suggest that this marker can be used to monitor the clinical course of these patients. 
Thoracic myelopathy caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum. Clinicopathologic study and surgical treatment. The authors reviewed 14 patients with thoracic myelopathy caused by ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF). The predominant locality of symptomatic OLF was at the thoracolumbar junction, particularly at T10-11 followed by T11-12. At the level of the thickest OLF in each patient, there were three types of OLF from computed tomography and operative findings: a lateral type in 3 patients, diffuse in 8, and thickened nodular in 3. The diagnosis of OLF-related thoracic spinal canal stenosis was best made by enhanced computed tomography. Histologic study revealed that the developmental mode of OLF was mainly endochondral ossification. Numerous fibrocartilaginous cells were found in the increased and swollen collagen fibers forming the hypertrophic ligamentum flavum (HLF). Ossification extended along the superficial layer of HLF. The size or extension of OLF was relevant to the corresponding diathesis of spinalhyperostosis. Results of laminectomy for OLF were poor because of the high occurrence of complications early on or later deterioration. Therefore, laminoplasty is recommended as a successful procedure for OLF-related thoracic myelopathy, avoiding further local mechanical stress due to tensile force. 
Significance of a negative exercise thallium test in the presence of a critical residual stenosis after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction. BACKGROUND. After thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, increasing emphasis is placed on early submaximal exercise testing, with further intervention advocated only for demonstrable ischemia. Although significant residual coronary artery lesions after successful thrombolysis are common, many patients paradoxically have no corresponding provokable ischemia. METHODS AND RESULTS. The relation between significant postthrombolytic residual coronary artery disease and a negative early, submaximal exercise thallium-201 tomogram was studied among 101 consecutive patients with uncomplicated myocardial infarction and at least 70% residual stenosis of the infarct artery. A negative test occurred in 49 (48.5%) patients with a mean 88% residual infarct artery stenosis. Further characteristics of the group were as follows: mean time to treatment was 3.1 hours; mean age was 54 +/- 10 years; 80% were male; 47% had anterior infarction; 39% had multivessel disease; mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 53 +/- 14%; and mean peak creatine kinase level was 3,820 +/- 3,123 IU/ml. A similar group of 52 (51.5%) patients, treated within 3.3 hours from symptom onset, with a mean postthrombolysis stenosis of 90%, had a positive exercise test. Characteristics of this group were as follows: age was 58 +/- 10 years; 92% were male; 56% had anterior infarction; 40% had multivessel disease; and mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 54 +/- 15%. The peak creatine kinase level associated with the infarction, however, was lower: 2,605 +/- 1,805 IU/ml (p = 0.04). There was no difference in performance at exercise testing with respect to peak systolic pressure, peak heart rate, or time tolerated on the treadmill between the two groups. By multivariate logistic regression, only peak creatine kinase level predicted a negative stress result in the presence of a significant residual stenosis (odds ratio, 4.2; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-16.3). CONCLUSIONS. The explanation for the relatively frequent finding of a negative early stress 201Tl tomogram after apparently successful reperfusion appears to be more extensive myocardial necrosis and not delay in therapy or inadequate exercise performance. 
Therapeutic effects of genetically engineered toxin (DAB486IL-2) in patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. In DAB486IL-2 the receptor-binding domain of native diphtheria toxin is replaced by human IL-2 sequences. This recombinant fusion protein is selectively cytotoxic for cells bearing high-affinity IL-2 receptors--eg, leukaemic cells. A patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia who did not respond to gamma interferon and conventional antileukaemic drugs has responded to DAB486IL-2. 
The prevalence of autoantibodies during third-trimester pregnancy complicated by hypertension or idiopathic fetal growth retardation. Lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin, antinuclear, anti-deoxyribonucleic acid, antithyroglobulin, and antithyroid microsomal antibodies were assayed during third-trimester pregnancy (100 normal, 100 with complications). In spite of a normal activated partial thromboplastin time in all instances, lupus anticoagulant was further investigated by three additional procedures: tissue thromboplastin inhibition time, platelet neutralization procedure, and cephalin neutralization test. The prevalence of autoantibodies in pregnancies with hypertension reaches 16% (four with lupus anticoagulant, two with anticardiolipin, and two with antithyroid microsomal antibodies), which is significantly greater than that for idiopathic fetal growth retardation (2%) (one with lupus anticoagulant antibodies) and normal pregnancies (3%) (two with antithyroglobulin and one with autithyroid microsomal antibodies) (p less than 0.01). Autoantibodies were equally distributed between patients with gestational hypertension and those with preeclampsia. When compared with the 42 patients with hypertension and no autoantibodies, the eight patients with autoantibody had a more frequent history of fetal growth retardation (p less than 0.05), but there was no difference in the severity of hypertension, the frequency of obstetric complications, or the outcome of pregnancy. They did not require any specific treatment. 
Atrial fibrillation associated with autonomic dysreflexia in patients with tetraplegia. Atrial fibrillation is an arrhythmia characterized by disorganized atrial depolarizations and an irregular ventricular response. Most patients with atrial fibrillation have underlying cardiac pathology. This paper presents the cases of three patients with high-level spinal cord injury and symptoms of autonomic dysreflexia who developed atrial fibrillation without any cardiac or metabolic disease that would predispose them to this. The paper proposes that autonomic dysreflexia might predispose a patient to atrial fibrillation by altering the pattern of repolarization of the atria, making the heart susceptible to a reentrant type of arrhythmia. High-level spinal cord injured patients may be at increased risk for the development of atrial fibrillation, an arrhythmia which, if left untreated, can increase the incidence of an embolic cerebrovascular accident that could further impair the patient's functional status. 
Selection of the approach to the distal internal carotid artery from the second cervical vertebra to the base of the skull. Although several approaches for exposure of distal internal carotid artery lesions have been reported, the precise anatomic levels for which each of these maneuvers are most appropriate have not been well described. Since these techniques may require preoperative preparation, it is useful to determine in advance how much exposure will be needed and to select the most suitable and effective technique. We used anatomic dissection in 12 human cadaver specimens (24 carotid bifurcations) to define the limits of distal internal carotid artery exposure by several commonly advocated methods. The standard anterior approach along the sternocleidomastoid muscle allowed exposure of the internal carotid artery to the level of the upper one third of the second cervical vertebra. The upper limit of this exposure was extended to the middle of the first cervical vertebra by division of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Anterior subluxation of the mandible increased the distal exposure of the internal carotid artery to the superior border of the first cervical vertebra. Styloidectomy in combination with the preceding maneuvers extended the exposure an additional 0.5 cm cephalad. Lateral mandibulotomy did not significantly extend exposure beyond that obtained with mandibular subluxation and styloidectomy. Exposure of the internal carotid artery in the 1 cm immediately below the base of the skull required a posterior approach with mastoidectomy. 
Time course of creatine kinase release after termination of sustained ventricular dysrhythmias. Differentiation between primary and secondary (caused by acute myocardial infarction) ventricular fibrillation has important therapeutic and prognostic implications. The diagnosis of myocardial infarction is based on clinical, ECG, and creatine kinase MB isoenzyme (MBCK) activity. Enzymatic criteria might not be able to confirm the diagnosis of myocardial infarction after recent cardioversion. The routine use of electrophysiologic studies involving the induction and termination of ventricular dysrhythmias provides a setting in which enzyme release as a result of cardioversion alone can be examined. Therefore a systematic investigation of the magnitude and time course of creatine kinase (CK) and MBCK release was performed after termination of ventricular dysrhythmias in 57 patients undergoing electrophysiologic studies. Of patients requiring external cardioversion, only 50% had an elevation in CK and MBCK activity. Elevation when present corrected with the number of shocks and cumulative energy delivered. The magnitude of MBCK release exceeded 10% of the total CK activity in 9% of observations. Pace-termination of ventricular tachycardia did not result in enzyme release. Arrhythmia characteristics, coronary artery disease, and left ventricular function did not affect the magnitude of the time course of enzyme release. These data suggest that cardioversion with multiple shocks may result in a component of MBCK release, and thus a false positive diagnosis of primary acute myocardial infarction may be made by relying exclusively on the enzyme release pattern. 
Percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty following surgical repair of sinus venosus atrial septal defect. Mitral valvuloplasty performed 5 y after repair of a sinus venosus ASD was difficult because of a thickened septum, but resulted in improved mitral valve opening and did not lead to ASD. Thus, prior repair of a sinus venosus ASD may not be an absolute contraindication to mitral valvuloplasty. 
Lumbar regional anaesthesia and prophylactic anticoagulant therapy. Is the combination safe? A survey has been carried out in all Danish anaesthetic departments (n = 80) regarding the attitude towards the use of epidural/spinal lumbar analgesia in patients who were receiving prophylactic anticoagulant therapy for the prevention of thromboembolism. About 60% of the departments used the techniques in patients receiving low-dose heparin and no side effects had been experienced. Spinal and epidural anaesthesia were in general regarded as being contraindicated in patients fully anticoagulated with vitamin K antagonists. In the world literature, the attitude towards the combination is conflicting. No randomised trial has been performed and complications are almost entirely confined to patients fully anticoagulated with vitamin K antagonists. Only one case of an epidural haematoma has been recorded when subcutaneous low-dose heparin was used as thromboprophylaxis. 
Local toxicity with subcutaneous methadone. Experience of two centers. We report on 8 patients treated with subcutaneous methadone for cancer-related pain at 2 institutions. The success of other subcutaneous agents for pain control has been well demonstrated. It was felt that methadone would be useful due to its low cost. Unfortunately, 7 of the 8 patients experienced adverse reactions at the subcutaneous sites requiring cessation of subcutaneous methadone. 
Effect of calcification on in vivo mechanical response of rabbit arteries to balloon dilation. BACKGROUND. Atherosclerosis has been associated with loss of artery wall distensibility in human cadavers and in experimental animal models, giving it the lay term "hardening of the arteries." METHODS AND RESULTS. To assess the effect of calcification on arterial distensibility, balloon pressure and volume were recorded during dilation of calcified aortas in Watanabe heritable hyperlipidemic (WHHL) rabbits in vivo. Calcification was induced by dietary supplements of cholesterol, vitamin D2, and calcium. Balloon pressure, volume, and time signals were acquired at high frequency with controls for temperature and balloon inflation rate. Resistance to balloon dilation was minimal in control rabbit aortas (delta Vmax = 5.0 +/- 3.5 microliters) and in excised nonatherosclerotic human coronary arteries, and it was small in aortas from cholesterol-fed rabbits (12.3 +/- 8 microliters), even when lipid levels were markedly elevated by a high cholesterol diet (611 +/- 347 mg/dl). With dietary cholesterol, vitamin D2, and calcium supplements, WHHL rabbits developed mild hypercalcemia (15 +/- 1.9 mg/dl), hypercholesterolemia (1,100 +/- 633 mg/dl), moderate-to-marked aortic calcification, and high resistance to balloon dilation (38 +/- 27) comparable to that seen in angioplasty patients. CONCLUSIONS. It is concluded that experimentally induced calcification decreases the distensibility of the rabbit aorta in vivo and that it yields to balloon dilation by plastic deformation closely resembling that seen in balloon angioplasty of human coronary arteries. These findings suggest that calcification contributes to arterial "hardening" associated with atherosclerosis. 
Relationship between the timing of aneurysm surgery and the development of delayed cerebral ischemia. A consecutive series of 145 patients with acute aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were operated on within 7 days of SAH and were prospectively evaluated over a 4-year period to determine if the timing of aneurysm surgery influenced the development of delayed cerebral ischemia. All patients were managed with a standardized policy of urgent surgical clipping and treatment with aggressive prophylactic postoperative volume expansion. Patients with delayed ischemic symptoms were additionally treated with induced hypertension. Forty-nine patients underwent surgery on Day 0 or 1 (Group 1) post-SAH, 60 patients on Day 2 or 3 (Group 2), and 36 patients on Days 4 through 7 (Group 3). Postoperative delayed cerebral ischemia developed in 16% of (Group 1) patients, in 22% of Group 2 patients, and in 28% of Group 3 patients. Cerebral infarction resulting from delayed cerebral ischemia developed in only 4% of Group 1 patients, 10% of Group 2 patients, and 11% of Group 3 patients. A bad clinical outcome as a result of delayed cerebral ischemia occurred in one Group 1 patient (2%), two Group 2 patients (3%), and one Group 3 patient (3%). Preoperative grade was not significantly correlated with the incidence or severity of delayed cerebral ischemia at any time interval except that patients in modified Hunt and Hess Grade I or II who underwent surgery on Day 0 or 1 after SAH had no strokes or bad outcomes from delayed cerebral ischemia. This study demonstrates that there is no rationale for delaying aneurysm surgery based on the time interval between SAH and patient evaluation. 
Carnitine deficiency associated with ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency. An infant with X-linked recessive ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency is described who also had severe deficiency of plasma and liver carnitine during normoammonemic periods. Treatment with L-carnitine (100 mg/kg/day) for 12 months decreased the frequency of hospitalizations for hyperammonemia, although it did not alter his neurologic status. This report demonstrates that persistent carnitine deficiency may be present in patients with ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency even when plasma ammonia is normal. Carnitine evaluation and supplementation may be important in the treatment of patients with this metabolic disorder. 
Do primary dysfunctions in neural control of arterial pressure contribute to hypertension? This article is a summary of the physiological and clinical evidence that links the cause of essential hypertension to the brain. We stress the potential importance of a biochemical disturbance in the central role of angiotensin II in the regulation of arterial pressure. While the evidence is compelling, we acknowledge the need for further complete studies on this timely subject. 
Oral contraceptive-associated liver cell adenoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. Cytomorphology and mechanism of malignant transformation. From January 1976 to May 1990, 1673 patients with a liver mass or masses detected by imaging techniques underwent percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the liver. Of these, 99 were diagnosed cytologically as "hepatocellular carcinoma" and 9 as "consistent with liver cell adenoma." The cytologic diagnoses were confirmed in the follow-up of all cases. Among the 99 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 3 had taken oral contraceptives for a period of 10, 11, and 12 years, respectively. The nine patients with liver cell adenoma were all users of oral contraceptives over a period ranging from 5 to 10 years. Of these, two who had taken oral contraceptives for a period of 8 and 10 years, respectively, had foci or areas of liver cell dysplasia within the adenomas. The cytologic criteria for the diagnosis of liver cell dysplasia included cytoplasmic and nuclear enlargement, nuclear pleomorphism together with prominent nucleoli, hyperchromasia and multinucleation. The cytologic features of liver cell dysplasia strikingly mimic hepatocellular carcinoma. From this study, the foci or areas of liver cell dysplasia arising within the liver cell adenomas appear to be the missing link responsible for the transformation of liver cell adenoma to carcinoma. It is believed that liver cell adenomas are not premalignant and may undergo reversible change after withdrawal of causative agents, whereas liver cell dysplasia is an irreversible, premalignant change and will eventually progress to hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Ovarian ablation failures by radiation: a comparison of two dose schedules. Sixty Chinese breast cancer patients underwent ovarian irradiation with one of two dose schedules: 12 Gy/4 fractions/4-6 days or 14 Gy/4 fractions/4-6 days. The ovarian ablation failure rates were 14% and 0% respectively in patients above 40 years of age. The overall ablation failure rate in younger patients was unacceptably high at 35%. The significance of the findings is discussed. 
Olfactory dysfunction in three neurodegenerative diseases. Olfactory dysfunction is among the first signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD), idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), and the parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) of Guam. We have recently demonstrated that the odor identification and detection deficits of patients with PD are equivalent to those of patients with mild AD when subtle differences in cognitive function are statistically controlled for by analysis of covariance. In contrast, patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and patients with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism evidence olfactory function much more similar to that of normal controls. In the present study, we administered the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test and the Picture Identification Test to 24 patients with early signs of the PDC of Guam and statistically compared their test scores to those of 24 early-stage AD and 24 early-stage PD patients of similar age and gender from the United States mainland. Although the PDC group evidenced slightly more difficulty in identifying pictures than did the other 2 groups, the odor identification deficit associated with this disorder was of the same magnitude as that observed in AD and PD, suggesting that olfactory testing cannot be used to distinguish among these 3 diseases and that the olfactory dysfunction of these disorders may reflect a common neurologic substrate. 
Mammographic guidewire localization of nonpalpable breast lesions. Guidewire-directed biopsy is the predominant method of evaluating nonpalpable breast lesions detected by mammography. It is an accurate and safe procedure for obtaining a histologic evaluation of abnormal tissue, leading to early diagnosis and improved survival rates. This report reviews 526 needle localizations and biopsies of nonpalpable breast lesions performed in two community hospitals over a 39-month period and compares early results with those achieved in the last 13 months of the study. This review indicates that as experience in using this modality increased, the cancer detection rate increased and the percentage of invasive cancers decreased. The percentage of cancers detected in the final 13 months of the study (19%, Group II) was higher than in the first 26 months of the study (13%, Group I). Although microcalcifications were found in 24 per cent of the mammograms leading to a diagnosis of cancer, they did not prove to be a reliable indicator of malignancy in this study. 
Parkinson's disease in Ferrara, Italy, 1967 through 1987. Epidemiological surveys on Parkinson's disease that have been carried out in different parts of the world have suggested that the disease is uniformly distributed in white populations. The position with regard to the Mediterranean peoples is still controversial, because of the large variation of the frequencies observed in the different areas that have been investigated. We therefore studied the frequency of Parkinson's disease in the Local Health Service of Ferrara, northeastern Italy (mean population, 187,000). Based on 394 patients, the mean incidence per year for the period from 1967 through 1987 was 10.01/100,000. The incidence rate of Parkinson's disease among cases with early onset was found to be statistically higher in rural areas as compared with urban ones (6.32/100,000 vs 3.11/100,000). Moreover, the study revealed a significantly higher incidence rate among agricultural workers (20.6/100,000). These results would seem to give further support to the hypothesis of a possible causal role of environmental factors that are mainly linked to agriculture, most likely due to the continual exposure to toxic agents in this area. However, further studies, which are not exclusively epidemiological, are necessary before any conclusions may be drawn, because many confounding variables may account for the results from surveys of this type. 
Common bile duct and intrahepatic stones: results of transhepatic electrohydraulic lithotripsy in 50 patients. Percutaneous, transhepatic, intracorporeal, electrohydraulic shock wave lithotripsy was performed in 50 patients after failure of endoscopic treatment (n = 43) or directly in patients with a strictured hepaticojejunostomy (n = 7). Twenty-seven patients had common bile duct stones; 23, intrahepatic stones. Three steps were used: A transhepatic bilicutaneous fistula was created, a wide communication between the bile duct and the gut was established, and contact shock wave lithotripsy was performed under endoscopic guidance. Afterward, 46 patients were free of stones. In four patients with diffuse intrahepatic lithiasis, only 75% of stones could be cleared. Severe complications, seen in 11 patients (hemobilia necessitating transfusion [n = 6], bile duct perforation resulting in cholangitis [n = 3], acute pulmonary edema [n = 1], and hemothorax [n = 1]), were fatal in four patients; all occurred early in the study. The authors modified their technique by dilating the biliary tract in two sessions 3 days apart, waiting 6 days for the tract to mature, and then introducing the cholangioscope directly through the skin, significantly reducing complications and mortality (P less than .005). 
Changes in mucociliary clearance during acute exacerbations of asthma. Previous studies have suggested that mucociliary clearance (MC) is impaired in asthmatic subjects. If so, impaired clearance may be an important factor in acute exacerbation. We proposed that if MC plays a significant role in acute illness, MC should be impaired during the exacerbation but improve after recovery. To test this hypothesis, five asthmatic patients with attacks requiring hospitalization underwent measurement of MC using radiolabeled aerosol and a gamma camera. They were studied on the second or third day after admission with repeat measurements after discharge. Spirometry was performed before all studies. After an equilibrium xenon scan (133Xe), which defined lung borders and measured regional volume, radiolabeled saline particles containing technetium-labeled (99mTC) sulfur colloid were deposited and used to label airway mucus. Deposition patterns were matched by regulating particle distribution and breathing pattern. MC was then measured as percentage retention of radioactivity at 10-min intervals for 2 h. When hospitalized, 96.0 +/- 2.06% (SEM) of the initial radioactivity was retained in the lung after 2 h, indicating little clearance of mucus from the lung. In fact, no significant changes were detected when activity at 120 min was compared with measurements at 10 min (99.2 +/- 0.22%, NS). After discharge clearance was markedly enhanced. That is, retention of lung activity was significantly lower at all time intervals from 10 min onward, with only 70.9 +/- 3.86% retained at 120 min (p = 0.008). During an asthmatic attack warranting hospital admission, MC is significantly impaired, with marked improvement following recovery. 
The effect of ERCP on circulating pancreatic enzymes and pancreatic protease inhibitors. The pathogenesis of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)-induced pancreatitis is poorly understood. To elucidate a role for pancreatic enzymes in ERCP-induced pancreatitis, we measured serum amylase, lipase, trypsin, and elastase in 25 patients undergoing ERCP. Serum alpha 1-antitrypsin and alpha 2-macroglobulin, two major pancreatic protease inhibitors, also were measured. All pancreatic enzymes measured rose significantly after ERCP. Pancreatic duct cannulation was associated with a greater elevation in serum amylase and lipase. Circulating alpha 2-macroglobulin was reduced by 7% (p = 0.04) 6 h after ERCP, whereas circulating alpha 1-antitrypsin increased over the same time period. Papillotomy, stent placement, or underlying disease did not influence changes any further. Three patients developed ERCP-induced pancreatitis. All three patients had circulating alpha 2-macroglobulin levels below 243 mg/dl (p = 0.03). The ERCP-induced alterations in circulating pancreatic enzymes and their inhibitors are similar to changes seen in clinical pancreatitis. Low circulating alpha 2-macroglobulin levels may predispose to ERCP-induced pancreatitis. 
Stimulation of glucose transport in skeletal muscle by hypoxia. Hypoxia caused a progressive cytochalasin B-inhibitable increase in the rate of 3-O-methylglucose transport in rat epitrochlearis muscles to a level approximately six-fold above basal. Muscle ATP concentration was well maintained during hypoxia, and increased glucose transport activity was still present after 15 min of reoxygenation despite repletion of phosphocreatine. However, the increase in glucose transport activity completely reversed during a 180-min-long recovery in oxygenated medium. In perfused rat hindlimb muscles, hypoxia caused an increase in glucose transporters in the plasma membrane, suggesting that glucose transporter translocation plays a role in the stimulation of glucose transport by hypoxia. The maximal effects of hypoxia and insulin on glucose transport activity were additive, whereas the effects of exercise and hypoxia were not, providing evidence suggesting that hypoxia and exercise stimulate glucose transport by the same mechanism. Caffeine, at a concentration too low to cause muscle contraction or an increase in glucose transport by itself, markedly potentiated the effect of a submaximal hypoxic stimulus on sugar transport. Dantrolene significantly inhibited the hypoxia-induced increase in 3-O-methylglucose transport. These effects of caffeine and dantrolene suggest that Ca2+ plays a role in the stimulation of glucose transport by hypoxia. 
Tegmental dehiscence and brain herniation into the middle ear cleft. The tegmen tympani may occasionally be breached by herniation of the temporal lobe with or without dural cover. The clinical presentation may be obvious with CSF otorrhoea but less so with apparent middle ear effusion, CSF rhinnorrhoea, conductive hearing loss, recurrent meningitis or intracranial sepsis. Diagnosis requires suspicion of the condition, which may be aided by radiological imaging. Surgical repair is to be recommended: various techniques are available but bone enveloped by fascia placed by subtemporal approach is preferred. The features of this problem are highlighted by four cases. 
A case of chronic GM1 gangliosidosis presenting as dystonia: clinical and biochemical studies. Clinical and biochemical studies are reported on a 32-year-old man with GM1 gangliosidosis who presented with a slowly progressive dystonia that began when he was aged 7 years and eventually became almost totally incapacitating at the age of 35. There was only mild intellectual deterioration, but myoclonus, seizures and macular cherry-red spots were never observed. Proton-density and T2-weighted MRI scans showed symmetrical hyperintense lesions of both putamina. No increase of GM1 ganglioside was found in plasma or cerebrospinal fluid, and the metabolism of GM1 ganglioside in cultured skin fibroblasts from the patient was also almost normal, although the residual activity of GM1 ganglioside beta-galactosidase activity was only 10% of normal. These findings suggest that impaired GM1 ganglioside metabolism is not present systemically as it is in the infantile and juvenile types of the disorder, but is mainly confined to the central nervous system in chronic GM1 gangliosidosis. 
Intrathecal baclofen for intractable axial dystonia. Following spinal instrumentation for scoliosis, a patient developed intractable axial dystonia refractory to conservative medical management. We describe the successful treatment of this dystonia with a continuous infusion of intrathecal baclofen and the subsequent long-term management. 
The treatment of metastatic breast cancer. While metastatic breast cancer is not curable, it is treatable. Its treatment is associated with a relatively high rate of success, and patients are able to maintain a good quality of life for periods ranging from a few months to several years. This knowledge should encourage both the patient and the oncologist to maintain treatment as long as potentially effective therapeutic methods are available. Progress is ongoing both in the development of new forms of treatment and in new ways of using and combining already existing therapeutic modalities. There is still no established "best" or "only" first treatment of metastatic breast cancer. When secondary and later treatment is to be undertaken, the task of selecting the most appropriate treatment becomes even more complex. It is only through controlled clinical trials that useful therapeutic guidelines will develop. Treatment is a joint endeavor involving both the physician and the patient. Communication must remain open. In the final stages of the illness, treatment should be directed toward the relief of distressing symptoms and anxiety. 
Cryptococcal pleural effusion preceding cryptococcal meningitis in AIDS. The authors report a case in which a small cryptococcal pleural effusion preceded the development of severe cryptococcal meningitis in an HIV-positive patient. The appearance of an isolated transient pleural effusion is a very unusual presentation for AIDS-related complications. The authors suggest that cryptococcal infection be considered in this setting. 
Smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost--United States, 1988. Smoking is a leading cause of diseases associated with premature mortality in the United States; in 1985, these diseases accounted for an estimated 390,000 premature deaths. In this report, mortality data and estimates of smoking prevalence for 1988 are used to calculate smoking-attributable mortality (SAM), years of potential life lost (YPLL), and age-adjusted SAM and YPLL rates for the United States. Calculations were performed using Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Cost (SAMMEC II) software, which includes relative risk estimates for 22 adult (i.e., greater than or equal to 35 years of age) smoking-related diseases and relative risk estimates for four perinatal (i.e., less than 1 year of age) conditions. Age-, sex-, and race-specific mortality data for 1988 were obtained from CDC's National Center for Health Statistics. Data on burn deaths caused by cigarettes were obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The estimated number of deaths among nonsmokers from lung cancer attributable to passive smoking was obtained from a report of the National Academy of Sciences. Age-, sex-, and race-specific current and former smoking prevalence rates in 1988 for adults aged greater than or equal to 35 years and for women aged 18-44 years were estimated by linear extrapolation using National Health Interview Survey data for 1974-1987. 
Questionable cancer practices in Tijuana and other Mexican border clinics. Tijuana, Mexico, has become a refuge for cancer patients who have been convinced that they may be cured of their terminal illness by unconventional, unproved, and disproved methods offered in the border clinics. About a dozen United States promoters have joined with Mexican colleagues to offer a variety of treatments. Some patients are diagnosed using standard methods prior to arrival at the clinics, but many healthy individuals are misdiagnosed as having cancer or "precancer" and are then treated there. Others are told they have been cured or are improving even though they still have active disease. The modalities and regimens used are often referred to as "metabolic therapy" and, for the most part, are either not based on sound scientific principles or have been shown in controlled clinical trials to be useless or even dangerous. A basic metabolic regimen consists of three phases: detoxification with fasting and bowel cleansing, strengthening the immune system with numerous "supplements," and attacking cancer with "natural and non-toxic" chemicals. Popular treatments include injections of hydrogen peroxide, large quantities of pressed liver and carrot juice, coffee enemas, infusions of Laetrile mixed with massive doses of vitamins and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), special diets, and a host of other pseudoscientific regimens. Unfortunately, no evidence exists that any of these modalities is more effective than no treatment at all. Patients traveling to the Mexican border clinics for metabolic therapy are subjecting themselves to costly and hazardous regimens, especially if they forgo responsible medical care in the process. The American Cancer Society, therefore, strongly urges individuals with cancer not to seek treatment with metabolic therapies in the Mexican border clinics. 
Ki-67 staining in histological subtypes of breast carcinoma and fine needle aspiration smears. Thirty four cases of invasive breast carcinoma were analysed for heterogeneity of Ki-67 reactivity in a tumour, and proliferative activity in various histological subtypes was compared. The growth factions determined in areas of central and peripheral tumour were the same. Mucinous and lobular carcinoma showed lower Ki-67 activity than ductal carcinomas. When ductal carcinomas were subdivided according to their dominant growth pattern, the carcinomas with a solid or comedo growth pattern showed the highest proliferative activity. These results largely confirm data from previous cell kinetic studies on the incorporation of radioactively labelled thymidine. A correlation between the growth fraction determined by Ki-67 in fine needle aspiration smears and cryostat sections of corresponding tumours was shown, implying that the immunostaining of cytological smears gives a reliable impression of the growth fraction of a tumour and may therefore be used in prospective studies. 
Transmetatarsal amputation: the role of adjunctive revascularization. Over a 12-year period, 160 transmetatarsal amputations were performed in patients with peripheral vascular occlusive disease. The following groups were defined: group 1 - nonreconstructable disease (n = 40); group 2 - transmetatarsal amputation in conjunction with distal revascularization (n = 99); group 3 - reconstructable disease but transmetatarsal amputation performed without simultaneous revascularization (n = 21). There were nine early deaths in the entire series, for an operative mortality rate of 5.6%. The lowest rate of transmetatarsal amputation healing (24%) occurred in group 1. An 86% healing rate was achieved in group 3, but in seven cases (33%) some type of revascularization was required within 3 months of the amputation. In group 2 the healing rate was 62% but reached 83% where the bypass remained patent for at least 3 months after the amputation. Long-term patency rates also affected healing. Healing was not influenced by the number of local procedures (single vs multiple). The presence of severe infection or extensive necrosis necessitated open transmetatarsal amputation in 89 cases; the remaining 71 amputations involved primary closure. Since many patients were treated at a time when diagnostic modalities as well as the operative indications and techniques differed somewhat from the current practice, much of the information regarding group I patients in particular should be considered as a negative historical control and any conclusion from our data should be adjusted accordingly. Healing after amputation at the transmetatarsal level can be expected in the majority of instances in which revascularization can be performed with predictable patency, even when the standard criteria for performing such amputations are liberalized. 
The relationship between esophageal motility disorders and microvascular angina. Patients with unexplained chest pain have caused investigators in cardiology, gastroenterology, and psychiatry to find abnormalities with overlap among the three specialties. This article reviews the data concerning the potential interrelation of chest pain of cardiac or esophageal origin. 
Deep brain stimulation: a review of basic research and clinical studies. Deep brain stimulation for pain control in humans was first used almost 30 years ago and has continued to receive considerable attention. Despite the large number of clinical reports describing pain relief, numerous studies have indicated that the results of these procedures vary considerably. In addition, many neurosurgeons find the procedures unpredictable, and considerable disagreement still exists regarding important issues related to the technique itself. This review gives an historical overview of the relevant basic and clinical literature and provides a critical examination of the clinical efficacy, choice of stimulation sites, parameters of stimulation, and effects on experimental pain. Finally, we give suggestions for future research that could more definitively determine the usefulness of deep brain stimulation for pain control. 
Establishment of cell-to-cell contact by adoptively transferred adherent lymphokine-activated killer cells with metastatic murine melanoma cells. A murine model of pulmonary B16 melanoma was used to study the infiltration into metastases of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells and adherent lymphokine-activated killer (A-LAK) cells and, specifically, to study whether A-LAK cells are able to leave the tumor microcirculation and establish cell-to-cell contact with malignant cells. Fluorescence microscopy demonstrated that A-LAK cells accumulated in metastases twice as efficiently as LAK cells during interleukin-2 stimulation. Electron microscopy of pulmonary metastases 16 hours after administration of 2.5 x 10(7) A-LAK cells revealed A-LAK cells, identified by the presence of typical two-compartment granules, in direct contact with melanoma cells. This finding was confirmed by using A-LAK cells prelabeled with polycationized ferritin. In conclusion, our observations demonstrate unambiguously the ability of adoptively transferred A-LAK cells to establish contact with extravascular metastatic melanoma cells. 
A comparison of hypertensive and nonhypertensive coronary care patients' cardiovascular responses to visitors. Patients with and without hypertension in a coronary care unit (n = 24) were compared with respect to cardiovascular responses to both a family visit and an interview by an investigator. Variables for each of the four cardiovascular indicators (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and premature ventricular contractions) included the value before, the highest value during, the lowest value during, and the value after each social interaction condition. The highest group means for systolic blood pressure and heart rate were significantly higher for patients with hypertension than for patients without hypertension under both the interview and visit conditions. Differences in cardiovascular responses were not significantly greater for family visits than for interviews for patients with hypertension compared with those without hypertension. Thus, although hypertensive patients had greater cardiovascular reactivity to both social interaction conditions than nonhypertensive patients in the coronary care unit, family visits were no more physiologically stressful than a comparative interaction condition. 
Surgical manipulation of primate cerebral arteries in established vasospasm. It is generally believed that surgery in the face of angiographic vasospasm is dangerous due to an increased incidence of postoperative cerebral ischemia. One theory is that arterial narrowing is exacerbated by surgical manipulation of vasospastic vessels during aneurysm dissection and clipping. This theory was tested in a primate model of cerebral vasospasm and the results reported. Six monkeys underwent baseline cerebral angiography, followed by induction of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on both sides of the circle of Willis. An equal amount of fresh autologous blood clot was placed around each internal carotid, anterior cerebral, and middle cerebral artery. Six days later, angiography was repeated and the right craniectomy was reopened for clot evacuation and surgical manipulation of the right cerebral arteries, including placement of a temporary aneurysm clip on the right middle cerebral artery. The left cerebral arteries were not exposed or manipulated, and served as controls. Twenty-four hours later angiography was repeated, then the animals were killed. Equal and significant vasospasm (greater than 40% reduction in vessel caliber compared to baseline, p less than 0.05) was seen in the middle cerebral arteries on both sides of the circle of Willis in all animals 6 and 7 days after SAH. There was no significant change in the severity of vasospasm on Day 7 compared with Day 6 in the right cerebral arteries. Increased risk of postoperative cerebral ischemia for surgery in the peak vasospasm period may be due to mechanisms other than increased arterial narrowing precipitated by surgical manipulation. 
Autopsy-verified pulmonary embolism in a surgical department: analysis of the period from 1951 to 1988. A retrospective analysis was undertaken of all surgical patients in Malmo, Sweden, during the period from 1951 to 1988 in whom pulmonary emboli were found at autopsy. The analysis included a comparison with the earlier analysed and reported time period from 1951 to 1980. A continued high frequency of pulmonary embolism at autopsy was seen during the 1980s (20.3 per cent of deaths, 31.7 per cent of autopsies). Of the 391 autopsy-verified pulmonary emboli found between 1981 and 1988, 113 (28.9 per cent) were considered fatal, 104 (26.6 per cent) contributed to death and 174 (44.5 per cent) were incidental. Few patients had symptomatic deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism before death. The overall frequency of major pulmonary embolism in surgical patients remained unchanged (0.3 per cent). The frequency of major postoperative pulmonary embolism showed an increase during the 1950s and 1960s (maximum 0.4 per cent) but a decrease in the last 5-year period of the 1970s (0.3 per cent), which has earlier been reported upon. This decrease continued during the 1980s (0.2 per cent) (P less than 0.05). An increase was found in the number of patients operated on who had autopsy-proven pulmonary embolism and who received thromboprophylaxis. Pulmonary embolism continues to be a major cause of death in surgical patients; however, postoperative major pulmonary embolism has shown a reduction in the last 15-year period. 
Improvement by acetylcysteine of hemodynamics and oxygen transport in fulminant hepatic failure. BACKGROUND. When administered early after an overdose of acetaminophen, intravenous acetylcysteine prevents hepatic necrosis by replenishing reduced stores of glutathione. How acetylcysteine improves the survival of patients with established liver damage induced by acetaminophen, however, is unknown. This study was undertaken to determine whether the beneficial effect of acetylcysteine under such circumstances could be due to enhancement of oxygen delivery and consumption. METHODS. We studied the effect of acetylcysteine on systemic hemodynamics and oxygen transport in 12 patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure and 8 patients with acute liver failure from other causes. The acetylcysteine was given in a dose of 150 mg per kilogram of body weight in 250 ml of 5 percent dextrose over a period of 15 minutes and then in a dose of 50 mg per kilogram in 500 ml of 5 percent dextrose over a period of 4 hours; measurements were made before treatment began and after 30 minutes of the regimen. RESULTS. In the patients with acetaminophen-induced liver failure, the infusion of acetylcysteine resulted in an increase in mean oxygen delivery from 856 to 975 ml per minute per square meter of body-surface area (P = 0.0036), due to an increase in the cardiac index from 5.6 to 6.7 liters per minute per square meter (P = 0.0021). Mean arterial pressure rose from 88 to 95 mm Hg (P = 0.0054) despite a decrease in systemic vascular resistance from 1296 to 1113 dyn.sec.cm-5 per square meter (P = 0.027). There was an increase in oxygen consumption from 127 to 184 ml per minute per square meter (P = 0.0007) associated with an increase in the oxygen-extraction ratio from 16 to 21 percent (P = 0.022). The effects in the patients with acute liver failure from other causes were similar. CONCLUSIONS. The increase in oxygen delivery and consumption in response to acetylcysteine may account for its beneficial effect on survival in patients with fulminant hepatic failure induced by acetaminophen. 
CNS pathology in the neurological mutant rats zitter, tremor and zitter-tremor double mutant (spontaneously epileptic rat, SER). Exaggeration of clinical and neuropathological phenotypes in SER. The pathological alterations in the central nervous system (CNS) were examined in three kinds of mutant rat; the zitter (zi/zi; Zi), the tremor rat (tm/tm; Tm) and the spontaneously epileptic rat (SER) which is a double mutant carrying both zitter and tremor genes. Two major alterations demonstrated in these mutants were hypomyelination and vacuolation or spongy degeneration. Hypomyelination was observed predominantly in SER and to a lesser extent in Zi, and was accompanied by a redundant or aberrant myelin sheath formation in addition to a decreased number of myelinated fibres. This appeared to be related to the occurrence of tremor. There was no abnormality in the structure of the myelin lamellae and oligodendrocytes or any destruction of myelin sheaths by phagocytic cells. The number of radial components in CNS myelin was increased almost equally in Zi, Tm and SER. Vacuolation was prominent in SER and Tm, especially in the brainstem and thalamus. Zi also developed mild vacuolation with advancing age. Vacuolation seemed to be related to the epileptic phenomena in SER and Tm. Vacuoles consisted mainly of swollen astrocytic processes and enlargement of the extracellular space, as well as occasional enlargement of periaxonal spaces. Thus both pathological findings--the hypomyelination derived from the zitter mutation with tremor, and the vacuolation from the tremor mutation with epileptic symptoms--were mutually exaggerated in SER. It is postulated that the two different genetic loci with zi and tm mutations interact and synergistically reinforce each other both clinically and pathologically in SER. 
Etiology of infection and morphologic changes in the lungs of Filipino children who die of pneumonia. Histopathologic studies and isolation of virus and bacteria in culture were carried out for 71 children less than 5 years of age with fatal pneumonia. A potential microbial etiology was identified for 61 children (86%): bacteria for 19 (27%), virus for 16 (23%), and virus plus bacteria for 26 (37%). Staphylococcus was the most prevalent pathogen, alone or in combination with other organisms, followed by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Viral infection may predispose to bacterial infection in some children. A correlation of clinical course, results of cultures, and morphologic changes revealed cofactors that may have contributed to a fatal outcome. Lung abscess, pericarditis, myocarditis, endocarditis, and meningitis were associated with bacterial infection. Many patients in this study had severe bronchopneumonia, with a high prevalence of complications such as abscess (62%), atelectasis (40%), pericarditis (28%), and empyema (7%). Such complications added to multiple infections, measles, and malnutrition contributed to the fatal outcome in these children. 
Cortical dysplasia in temporal lobe epilepsy: magnetic resonance imaging correlations. Cortical dysplasia has been documented in histological specimens surgically removed for treatment of refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. We studied 10 patients with cortical dysplasia and complex partial seizures who underwent temporal lobectomy. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed abnormalities in 5 of the patients who had microscopically detectable major abnormalities. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an abnormal cortical-white matter architectonic pattern in 2 patients with moderate cortical dysplasia. In the remaining 3 patients, magnetic resonance imaging findings were unremarkable. These observations suggest that magnetic resonance imaging is sensitive in the detection of certain dysplastic lesions in temporal lobe epilepsy. Preoperative identification of these abnormalities by magnetic resonance imaging may permit early and optimal surgical treatment in patients with refractory epilepsy. 
Femoro-femoral or ilio-femoral bypass for unilateral inflow reconstruction? Femoro-femoral and ilio-femoral bypass are two popular options for unilateral inflow reconstruction. In order to evaluate these alternative approaches, the records of 70 consecutive patients who underwent either femoro-femoral (n = 50) or ilio-femoral (n = 22) grafts were retrospectively reviewed. There were 46 men and 24 women, ranging in age from 27 to 84 years (mean: 66 years). Operative mortality was 10% for all femoro-femoral procedures, including 50% for emergent, 14% for synchronous, and 0% for solitary procedures; mortality was 9% for all ilio-femoral grafts including 20% for synchronous and 6% for solitary procedures. Among the elective solitary procedures, there was no significant difference with respect to operative time, blood loss, fluid requirement, time until resuming an oral diet, or duration of postoperative course for the two procedures. Five-year patency was 93% for all ilio-femoral and 57% for all femoro-femoral grafts. Although femoro-femoral bypass has been the more popular option for unilateral inflow reconstruction in this and other institutions, these findings justify the more widespread use of ilio-femoral bypass. 
Cloning and expression of the human vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a neuroendocrine mediator found in the central and peripheral nervous system. Distinct subsets of neural, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and immune cells bear specific high-affinity receptors for VIP, which are associated with a guanine nucleotide-binding (G) protein capable of activating adenylate cyclase. A cDNA clone (GPRN1) encoding the human VIP receptor was identified in libraries prepared from the Nalm 6 line of leukemic pre-B lymphoblasts and the HT-29 line of colon carcinoma cells. The deduced 362-amino acid polypeptide sequence encoded by GPRN1 shares a seven-transmembrane-segment hydropathicity profile with other G protein-coupled receptors. Northern blot analyses identified a 2.7-kilobase transcript of the VIP receptor in Nalm 6 and HT-29 cells as well as in tissues from rat brain, colon, heart, lung, kidney, spleen, and small intestine. COS-6 cells transfected with GPRN1 bound 125I-labeled VIP specifically with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 2.5 nM. VIP--and less effectively secretin, peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), and glucagon competitively displaced bound 125I-VIP from transfected COS-6 cells, with potencies in the order VIP greater than secretin = PHI much greater than glucagon. VIP stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in stably transfected Chinese hamster ovary K1 cells, inducing a 3-fold increase in the intracellular level of cAMP. When the antisense orientation of the VIP receptor clone was introduced into HT-29 cells, there was a 50% suppression of the specific binding of 125I-VIP and of the VIP-induced increase in cAMP level, relative to untransfected cells. The VIP receptor cloned exhibits less than or equal to 24% homology with other receptors in the same superfamily and thus represents a subset of G protein-coupled receptors for peptide ligands. 
Acinar cell carcinoma of the pancreas: a rare cause of left-sided portal hypertension. Isolated splenic vein obstruction with left-sided portal hypertension is a rare clinical condition. Owing to the close relationship of the splenic vein and the pancreas, this rare phenomenon is usually secondary to pancreatic inflammation or neoplasm. Acinar cell carcinoma has long been recognized as a distinctive, rare type of pancreatic carcinoma. A case of isolated splenic vein obstruction with left-sided portal hypertension secondary to acinar cell carcinoma of the pancreas, which we are reporting here, is thought to the first documented in the literature. 
Incidence of nonmelanoma skin cancer in New Hampshire and Vermont. A survey of skin cancer occurrence between June 1979 and May 1980 among residents of New Hampshire and Vermont identified 277 cases of squamous cell carcinoma and 1761 cases of basal cell carcinoma. The age-adjusted incidence rates for squamous cell carcinoma (32 per 100,000 in men, 8 per 100,000 in women) and for basal cell carcinoma (159 per 100,000 in men, 87 per 100,000 in women) were similar to those reported in other populations in the northern United States. Skin cancer incidence was particularly high among men more than 70 years of age and a large proportion (greater than 30%) of patients 55 years or older had a history of at least one previous skin cancer. 
Clinical and biologic features of childhood T-cell leukemia with the t(11;14). Cytogenetic analysis of cells from 622 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and successful G-banding chromosome studies disclosed seven cases with the t(11;14)(p13;q11) and one with the t(11;14)(p15;q11). Leukemia cells in all eight cases had a T-cell immunophenotype. The t(11;14)(p13;q11) occurred in 6.8% and the t(11;14)(p15;q11) in 1% of T-cell ALL cases (n = 103). The t(11;14) was associated with presenting clinical features typical of T-cell ALL: male predominance (n = 6), age greater than 10 years (n = 3), hyperleukocytosis (white blood cells greater than 100 x 10(9)/L, n = 5), relatively high hemoglobin level (median, 10.8 g/dL), high serum lactic dehydrogenase level (median, 3248 U/L), presence of mediastinal mass (n = 6), and central nervous system leukemia (n = 2). While there were no significant differences in presenting features between T-cell ALL cases with or without the t(11;14), leukemic cells from patients with the translocations were more likely to coexpress CD4 and CD8 antigens (6 of 6 v 35 of 86 cases tested, P less than .05). Adverse events have occurred in six patients: three central nervous system relapses [including the one with t(11;14)(p15;q11)], two secondary acute myeloid leukemia, and one hematologic relapse. Our results indicate that the t(11;14)(p13;q11) occurs exclusively in T-cell malignancies of intermediate- or late-stage thymocyte differentiation. Additional studies are needed to determine the prognostic implications of these translocations. 
Impaired binding properties of thyroxine-binding globulin in hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease. To determine the factors underlying the apparent reduction in binding ability of thyroxine-binding globulin in hepatocellular carcinoma, hormone-binding characteristics were further examined in patients with this disease and in control subjects. No differences in affinity constants with respect to triodothyronine or serum thyroxine-binding globulin from hepatocellular carcinoma, cirrhotic and normal subjects were found. The affinity for thyroxine was significantly reduced in hepatocellular carcinoma (0.41 +/- 0.13 x 10(10) mol-1) and cirrhotic (0.65 +/- 0.1 x 10(10) mol-1) patients compared with normal subjects (0.94 +/- 0.7 x 10(10) mol-1). Investigations carried out on liver tissue obtained from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease showed that thyroxine-binding globulin within tumor tissue was elevated and bound less exogenous tracer hormone compared with that obtained from nontumor tissue. Tumor-derived thyroxine-binding globulin with altered binding properties is, at least partly, responsible for the abnormal behavior of the serum protein in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Parenchymal versus reticuloendothelial iron overload in the liver: distinction with MR imaging Parenchymal iron deposition occurs in hemochromatosis, while iron is deposited in reticuloendothelial (RE) cells after blood transfusions or rhabdomyolysis. Magnetic resonance images of patients with decreased liver signal intensity on T2-weighted images at 1.5 T were blindly compared in an effort to distinguish these conditions. In each of five patients with hemochromatosis, the pancreas had low signal intensity, but splenic signal intensity was decreased in only one. In contrast, only three of the 16 patients with RE iron overload had low pancreatic signal intensity, while all of these patients either had low splenic signal intensity (n = 14) or previously underwent splenectomy (n = 2). Distinction among these causes of iron deposition is clinically important because parenchymal iron overload from hemochromatosis may produce significant tissue damage, while the RE iron of transfusions and rhabdomyolysis is of little clinical consequence. 
Long-term follow-up of elderly patients with locoregional breast cancer treated with tamoxifen only. One hundred and thirteen women aged 70 years or more with locoregional breast cancer were treated with tamoxifen alone as primary treatment. They were followed for a minimum of 5 years. Complete response occurred in 38 women, partial response in 17, no change in 34 and progressive disease in 24. Where progressive disease occurred, or where patients relapsed after an initial response, the most suitable conventional therapy was given. The actuarial 5-year survival rate was 49.4 per cent for all patients and was much higher (92 per cent) in those showing an initial complete response. Seventy patients (61.9 per cent) were not controlled by tamoxifen alone to death or most recent follow-up. Tamoxifen provides an alternative treatment for operable breast cancer in older women in the short term and may be particularly suitable for those with concurrent disease or who are unwilling to undergo surgery. The low morbidity rate from tamoxifen must be balanced against the need to maintain close follow-up. In the medium to long term, sole primary treatment by tamoxifen delays more definitive therapy. 
Stability of ethnic differences in children's pressor responses during three annual examinations. In this study, 395 healthy children had blood pressure and heart rate measured both at rest and during a stressful video game. Identical measurement procedures were used for three annual examinations. Consistently, black children demonstrated significantly greater pressor responses than white children. In view of the greater prevalence of hypertension among black adults than white adults, these data suggest that blacks exhibit hemodynamic irregularities well before the onset or diagnosis of hypertension. 
Adrenoceptors on blood cells from patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon. 1. alpha 2-Adrenoceptors on platelet membranes and beta 2-adrenoceptors on lymphocytes were studied in 24 patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon and in 24 age- and sex-matched control subjects. In two subgroups, a standardized mental arithmetic test and a finger-cooling test were performed. 2. Baseline blood pressure, heart rate and forearm blood flow did not differ between the two groups. 3. Baseline skin microcirculation (laser Doppler flux) was decreased in primary Raynaud's phenomenon (19 +/- 15 arbitrary units) compared with control subjects (33 +/- 14 arbitrary units) (P less than 0.01). 4. Baseline plasma noradrenaline concentration (2.00 +/- 1.44 versus 1.16 +/- 0.36 nmol/l) and alpha 2-adrenoceptor density (301 +/- 119 versus 210 +/- 82 fmol/mg) were increased in patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon in comparison with the control subjects. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor density/beta 2-adrenoceptor density ratio in patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon was, with a value of 0.37 +/- 0.04, higher than in the control subjects, where a value of 0.25 +/- 0.02 was measured (P less than 0.001). Plasma adrenaline concentration, beta 2-adrenoceptor density and the antagonist affinity to both receptor subtypes did not differ between both groups under baseline conditions. 5. Whereas during the finger-cooling test no differences were seen in the responses of the parameters measured, the mental arithmetic test induced an increase in laser Doppler flux in patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon and a decrease in the control group. 
Variation in management based on type of choledochal cyst. The management of 23 patients treated for choledochal cysts at the Oregon Health Sciences University between 1969 and 1990 is reviewed. The median age was 27 years, with a range from 1 month to 90 years. Seventy-eight percent of patients presented with abdominal pain, and 35% were jaundiced. Three patients presented with cholangitis, two with cyst rupture, and one with recurrent pancreatitis. Nine patients had had previous biliary surgery. The diagnosis was made in all patients with ultrasound and/or cholangiography. Fifteen patients (65%) had type I cysts, 2 had a type II cyst, 5 (22%) had type III cysts, and 1 had a type IV cyst. Stones were present in four (17%) cysts, and all excised cysts were benign. Seventeen patients with type I and II choledochal cysts had complete cyst excision and choledochoenterostomy. Four of five patients with type III cysts had endoscopic cyst incision and drainage, while the fifth patient had transduodenal cyst excision and sphincteroplasty. The patient with a type IV cyst had extrahepatic cyst excision and choledochojejunostomy. There were no operative deaths. Two postoperative complications occurred: cholangitis and a prolonged ileus. All patients had resolution of their pain and jaundice. Two patients had late cholangitis. Cyst excision and choledochojejunostomy are the treatment of choice for types I and II choledochal cysts. Extrahepatic cyst excision and choledochojejunostomy may be adequate treatment for type IV cysts. Endoscopic incision and drainage is appropriate for selected patients with type III cysts. 
Characterization of infectious crystalline keratitis caused by a human isolate of Streptococcus mitis. Streptococcus mitis isolated from a human with infectious crystalline keratitis was injected intrastromally into corneas of adult New Zealand white rabbits that were treated with tetracycline hydrochloride, methylprednisolone acetate, or a combination of tetracycline and methylprednisolone. Animals were followed up for up to 44 days; untreated corneas and those treated with tetracycline developed no disease or "fluffy" stromal infiltrates with overlying epithelial defects representing an abscess. Corneas treated with the combination of tetracycline and corticosteroid usually developed crystalline stromal opacities that on histopathologic examination were shown to be intrastromal aggregates of cocci. Transmission electron microscopy of crystalline lesions within 10 days of infection revealed typical cocci intermixed with a fibrillar material having periodicity characteristic of fibrinogen or fibrin, and immunoperoxidase staining for fibrinogen was positive. By 1 month, electron microscopy revealed aggregates of degenerated bacteria that were surrounded by cellular processes of activated keratocytes. Our studies demonstrate a model for crystalline keratitis in which organisms are seen to reside within the stroma for up to 44 days without an inflammatory response. Periocular corticosteroids appear to be necessary to create this model. It is possible that the organisms are isolated from the host response by fibrin or by keratocytes. 
Application of intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography in infants and small children. Intraoperative echocardiography is gaining increasing acceptance in the assessment of the surgical repair of congenital heart defects. Because of its ideal imaging location, intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) has been especially helpful in evaluating pulmonary venous return and the integrity of the left atrioventricular valve following mitral valvuloplasty, complete atrioventricular valve repair and correction of complex congenital heart disease. It has not been routinely used in infants and small children because of a prohibitively large probe size. We report the successful use of a recently developed "pediatric" TEE probe capable of Doppler and color flow imaging in two patients less than 7 years of age. No complications were encountered. Recommendations regarding optimal probe imaging positions in infants are provided. 
Current treatment of patients surviving out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Most out-of-hospital cardiac arrests result from the sudden onset of a sustained ventricular arrhythmia in the absence of a new myocardial infarction. Individuals who survive cardiac arrest are at high risk for recurrent arrhythmias and sudden unexpected death. To prevent recurrent cardiac arrest, effective treatment must be provided during hospitalization after the initial episode. Caring for the survivor of cardiac arrest requires a detailed clinical investigation to define the underlying cardiac anatomy and left ventricular function and to elucidate the mechanism and characteristics of the patient's arrhythmia. Appropriate antiarrhythmic therapy, such as drugs or a nonpharmacological intervention (eg, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator), is then selected based on these considerations. In addition, ischemia is treated aggressively with beta-adrenergic blocking agents and, when appropriate, with surgical coronary artery revascularization. 
Tissue polypeptide antigen activity in cerebrospinal fluid: a marker of central nervous system metastases of breast cancer. Tissue polypeptide antigen (TPpA) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was measured in 59 consecutive breast cancer patients with suspected central nervous system (CNS) metastases. Subsequently, we determined that 13 patients had parenchymal brain metastases, 10 had leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, and 36 had no CNS involvement. The concentration of TPpA, which is a nonspecific marker for cell proliferation, was significantly higher in patients with CNS metastases than in those without it (P less than .0001; Mann-Whitney test). A tentative cutoff value for CNS metastases was set at 95 U/L TPpA; the upper limit of values indicating absence of CNS metastases was 89 U/L. Given these cutoff points, the sensitivity of TPpA as a marker for CNS metastases was 74% and the specificity was 100%; the predictive values of positive and negative tests were 100% and 86%, respectively. In 16 patients with CNS metastases, no correlation was found between TPpA activity in corresponding CSF and blood samples (correlation coefficient, Spearman's rho = .4; P greater than .1). In three patients treated for leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, the measurements of CSF TPpA showed correlation between the presence of tumor cells in the CSF and neurological clinical function. TPpA concentrations decreased in parallel with the clinical response and increased prior to CNS disease progression. As a marker for CNS metastases, the level of TPpA in the CSF in breast cancer patients appears to be superior to the level of protein, lactate dehydrogenase, or glucose, which showed very low sensitivity (41%, 47%, and 8%, respectively). For quantitative evaluation of treatment for leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, the TPpA level appears to be valuable and superior to CSF cytology, because tumor cells are not always present in CSF samples from patients with this condition. 
Roles of thrombin and platelet membrane glycoprotein IIb/IIIa in platelet-subendothelial deposition after angioplasty in an ex vivo whole artery model. BACKGROUND. Platelet deposition at the site of injury caused by balloon angioplasty is associated with acute closure and restenosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. In a new ex vivo whole artery angioplasty model, we examined the roles of thrombin inhibition with D-Phe-Pro-ArgCH2Cl (PPACK) and inhibition of the platelet membrane fibrinogen receptor glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) with monoclonal antibody 7E3 on platelet deposition at the site of balloon injury. Fresh rabbit aortas were mounted in a perfusion chamber. One half of the mounted arterial segment was dilated with a standard angioplasty balloon catheter and the uninjured half served as the control segment. The vessels were perfused with human blood at physiological pressure and shear rates of 180-250 second-1 for 30 minutes. Platelet deposition was measured using 111In-labeled platelets and scanning electron microscopy. With heparin (2 units/ml) anticoagulation, 8.2 +/- 2.2 x 10(6) platelets/cm2 were deposited at the site of balloon injury compared with 0.7 +/- 0.2 x 10(6) platelets/cm2 on uninjured segments (p less than 0.02, n = 7). PPACK was tested at a concentration (10 microM) that totally inhibited platelet aggregation in response to thrombin. 7E3 was tested at a concentration (10 micrograms/ml) that totally inhibited platelet aggregation. Platelet deposition at the site of balloon injury was reduced 47% by PPACK and 70% by 7E3 compared with heparin. CONCLUSIONS. At shear rates seen in nonstenotic coronary arteries, PPACK and 7E3 are more effective than heparin in reducing platelet deposition at the site of balloon injury. The significant inhibition of platelet deposition by PPACK demonstrates the importance of heparin-resistant thrombin in platelet thrombus formation. The 7E3 results suggest that approximately 70% of platelet deposition at the site of balloon injury is GPIIb/IIIa dependent and that the remaining 30% results from non-GPIIb/IIIa-mediated platelet-subendothelial adhesion. Finally, the ex vivo whole artery system is a useful model for studying platelet-vessel wall interactions under physiologically defined parameters. 
Mycotic (Aspergillus) arteritis resulting in fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case report. A seventy-one year-old Japanese man suffering from carcinoma of the common bile duct died from subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary in intracranial mycotic arteritis (MA). Repeated cultures of the discharge from the draining tubes, the tip of intravenous hyperalimentation catheters, blood, sputum, and urine failed to grow any fungus. Autopsy disclosed MA due to Aspergillus at the terminal portion of the right internal carotid artery close to the posterior communicating artery. 
Inhibitory effect of interleukin-4 on the in vitro growth of Ph1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. We investigated the effect of recombinant human interleukin-4 (rhIL-4) on the in vitro growth of human leukemia cells in liquid culture and 3H-thymidine incorporation and found inhibitory effects on the growth of leukemic cells from patients with Ph1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph1 ALL) and three Ph1 ALL cell lines. However, no inhibitory effects were seen in Ph1-positive leukemic cell lines derived from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis and various types of Ph1-negative leukemia cells, including B-lineage leukemia cells. In a flow cytometry assay of IL-4 receptor (IL-4R), all three Ph1-positive ALL cell lines showed the presence of IL-4R on their cell surfaces, and the IL-4-dependent inhibition on the growth of Ph1-positive ALL cells was abrogated by the addition of either monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies against rhIL-4. Other cytokines, including IL-2, IL-3, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF), granulocyte-CSF, and IL-6, showed no inhibitory effects on the growth of Ph1-ALL cells, but tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon (IFN)-alpha, -beta, and -gamma displayed slight inhibitory effects in a high concentration. The growth inhibition induced by rhIL-4 in the Ph1-positive ALL cells was not abrogated by the addition of antibodies against either IFN-gamma or TNF-alpha. Furthermore, these cells showed no significant production of IFN-alpha, -beta, or -gamma or TNF-alpha after exposure to rhIL-4, thus indicating that the growth inhibition of Ph1-positive ALL cells by rhIL-4 is not associated with IL-4-stimulating production of these factors. rhIL-4 caused significant inhibition of the tyrosine kinase activity in these Ph1-positive ALL cells, similar to Herbimycin A, an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase that inhibited the tyrosine kinase activity in these cells. Our finding suggests that the clinical evaluation of rhIL-4 may offer promising therapeutic possibilities for patients with Ph1-positive ALL. 
Aztreonam vs. cefotaxime in the treatment of gram-negative spontaneous peritonitis in cirrhotic patients. Aztreonam and cefotaxime were compared in 44 cirrhotic patients who had 52 episodes of gram-negative spontaneous peritonitis. Patients were randomized into two therapeutic groups of similar characteristics. Group A (28 episodes) received 0.5 gm of aztreonam every 8 hr, and group B (24 episodes) received 1 gm of cefotaxime every 6 hr, for a planned 14-day period. Peak and trough serum and ascitic fluid levels of both antibiotics were several times higher than the minimum inhibitory concentrations of causative microorganisms. Eleven patients (21%) died within the first 48 hr after beginning therapy, which included seven in the aztreonam group and four in the cefotaxime group. In the remaining patients, signs and symptoms of infection were promptly controlled, and ascitic fluid cultures became negative after 48 hr in all cases, except in one patient from the aztreonam group, who was a clinical failure. Two patients from the aztreonam group and one from the cefotaxime group relapsed after treatment. The overall mortality rate was 50%, which was lower than classically reported: 12 patients (43%) died in the aztreonam group, and 14 (58%) died in the cefotaxime group (p = 0.265, NS). Hepatorenal syndrome and digestive tract hemorrhage were the most frequent causes of death occurring after the first 48 hr of treatment. Streptococcal superinfections developed in three patients (14.2%) in the aztreonam group. We conclude that both antibiotics at the low doses used in this study are similarly well tolerated and effective in controlling this infection. Because the use of aztreonam as the initial empirical treatment requires a concomitant antibiotic against gram-positive infections and the possibility of streptococcal superinfections, cefotaxime seems to be a more advantageous therapeutic alternative for this patient population. 
Effects of posture, Valsalva maneuver and respiration on atrial flutter rate: an effect mediated through cardiac volume. The effects of passive upright tilting from 0 degrees to +60 degrees (n = 27), Valsalva maneuver (n = 16) and respiration (n = 10) on the rate of atrial flutter were studied in 27 patients. After tilting to +60 degrees, the atrial flutter cycle length shortened in all patients from 247.5 +/- 7 to 236.7 +/- 6.9 ms (range of shortening 1 to 21 ms, p less than 0.001). The Valsalva maneuver (strain of 40 mm Hg) shortened the flutter cycle length during the strain (phase 2) from 242.2 +/- 4.6 to 230.5 +/- 5 ms (range of shortening 2 to 19 ms, p less than 0.001). In 10 patients whose respiration was monitored, the flutter cycle length consistently prolonged during inspiration and shortened during expiration. Combined beta-adrenergic and muscarinic receptor blockade in six patients did not significantly alter the flutter cycle length at rest or the effects of the various maneuvers on the changes in flutter cycle length. This study revealed that the atrial flutter cycle length can be shortened by passive upright tilting, the strain phase of the Valsalva maneuver and expiration. Changes in flutter cycle length were independent of autonomic tone, implying that by decreasing cardiac volume, these maneuvers affect characteristics of the atrial flutter circuit, thereby producing dynamic changes in the rate of atrial flutter. 
Two cases of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with myelopathy. We describe two patients with autopsy-proven neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis (NAE) presenting only as a transverse myelopathy for 10 to 12 months, followed by disseminated intracranial manifestations. Postmortem examination disclosed a vasculocentric distribution of neoplastic cells in various organs that stained positively with B-lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibody. These cases were unusual because they manifested as an isolated myelopathy for many months. 
DNA ploidy and cell kinetic measurements as predictors of recurrence and survival in stages B2 and C colorectal adenocarcinoma. DNA content and cell proliferation were measured by flow cytometry on paraffin-embedded Stage B2 or C colorectal adenocarcinomas from 694 patients enrolled in adjuvant trials conducted by the North Central Cancer Treatment Group. Patients with diploid tumors had a higher survival rate than those with nondiploid tumors (P less than 0.001). The proliferation index (the sum of the percent of cells in S-phase plus those in G2M phase) was also a strong prognostic factor (P less than 0.001). The ploidy and proliferation data were combined, and the patients in the favorable group (diploid and low proliferative index) had a 5-year survival of 74% compared with 54% for the unfavorable group (high proliferative index or nondiploid, P less than 0.001). This grouping was prognostic for survival in B2 (P less than 0.001), C (P = 0.013), colon (P less than 0.001), and rectal (P = 0.026) patient subsets. This study indicates that cell kinetic parameters are important and independent prognostic factors for Stages B2 and C colorectal cancer. 
Poststenotic dilatation. Partial narrowing of arteries produces poststenotic dilatation. This appears as a dilation of the vessel wall 1 to 3 centimeters distal to the area of a partial stenosis. When a stenotic band is placed in dogs, poststenotic dilatation develops rapidly, often within eight to ten days. Moderate stenoses that produce a bruit and thrill are effective in eliciting poststenotic dilatation, whereas very tight and very mild stenoses usually are ineffective. Thus, development of poststenotic dilatation requires the presence of flow disturbances sufficient to produce an audible bruit and a palpable thrill. Although the exact flow disturbance is uncertain, statis, increased lateral pressure, cavitation, abnormal shear stresses and turbulence all have been postulated to be the cause of poststenotic dilatation. Of these, experimental studies support abnormal shear stresses and turbulence as the most likely causes. Whatever the flow disturbance, it must make the wall vibrate to produce poststenotic dilatation. Vibrations are thought to produce alterations in wall elastin and possibly in vascular smooth muscle tone. This leads to dilatation of the vessel. If the dilatation is slight, removal of the stenosis may cause reversal of poststenotic dilatation with recovery beginning within hours of correction of the stenosis. If the dilated area is enlarged to twice normal diameter, it may exhibit permanent aneurysmal changes and, therefore, requires resections with reanastomosis. Arteries that are dilated to as little as one-third more than normal size may contain areas of ulceration with overlying thrombus. These vessels also may require resection with reanastomosis. 
The effects of shoes on the torsion and rearfoot motion in running. Excessive pronation is accepted as a good indicator for various running injuries. The least amount of pronation takes place when running barefoot. The latest investigations show that this is connected to a large torsional movement between forefoot and rearfoot which can be influenced by the shoe sole construction. The shoes which are in use among runners in track and field are basically of two types, running shoes (in general torsionally stiff) and spikes (torsionally flexible). The possibly varying effect of these shoes on the shoe/foot motion in running is not known. The purpose of this investigation was therefore to show whether the pronation angle and the torsion angle differ when running barefoot, with spikes, and with running shoes (forefoot touchdown, N = 9 left and right). A film analysis provided the angular movements of the lower leg, rearfoot, and forefoot as well as pronation and torsion in the frontal plane. The results show that at touchdown the torsional movements with both shoe types are quite different from those of running barefoot. With shoes, the torsion angle is reduced back to zero--with running shoes more than with spikes--and the pronation angle is increased beyond the barefoot values (P less than 0.01). In order to reduce the risk of injury, both shoe types should be improved--the running shoes with respect to torsion and the spikes with respect to pronation. 
Immunohistochemical studies of blood group-related antigens in human superficial esophageal carcinomas. A total of 63 surgically resected esophageal carcinomas (including 49 superficial esophageal carcinomas) and histologically normal tissue adjacent to the superficial carcinoma (nontumorous epithelium) were examined immunohistochemically for the blood group antigens (BGA) A, B, H, Lewisa, Lewisb, Lewisx, and Lewisy. Deletion of an expected A, B or H antigen occurred in 12 (24.5%) of the 49 superficial carcinomas and three (21.4%) of the 14 advanced carcinomas. Incompatible expression of an unexpected A or B antigens occurred in only one case (1.6%) in the carcinoma. In the clinicopathologic study, there was a significant correlation between immunoreactivity of Lewisa and depth of cancer invasion (chi-square test, P less than 0.05). In the superficial carcinoma, there were significant correlations between immunoreactivity of Lewisx and lymph node status (chi-square test, P less than 0.05), immunoreactivity of Lewisy and prognosis (Z test, P less than 0.05), and incompatible expression of Lewisb for tumor against nontumorous epithelium and histologic variation (chi-square test, P less than 0.01). The functional significance of alternations in BGA expression that may be associated with oncogenesis is not clear. However, immunohistochemical determination of BGA may be a more advantageous marker to predict the patient's clinical course in superficial esophageal carcinoma. 
Extraadrenal retroperitoneal paraganglioma: clinical, pathologic, and CT findings. Paragangliomas of the retroperitoneum arise from specialized neural crest cells distributed along the aorta in association with the sympathetic chain. In order to ascertain characteristic CT features of extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas to differentiate them from other retroperitoneal tumors, 31 discrete tumors and two cases of paragangliomatosis in 28 patients were reviewed retrospectively, and the CT features were correlated with clinical and pathologic findings. There were 16 men and 12 women. Average age was 37 years (range, 11-70 years). Twenty-four patients (86%) had hypertension. Of these, catecholamine levels were elevated in all 18 patients who had biochemical studies. Four patients (14%) had malignant paragangliomas. The discrete tumors were classified by location as suprarenal (26%), renal hilar (32%), or infrarenal (42%). Suprarenal paragangliomas could not be distinguished from the ipsilateral adrenal gland on CT. The average size of functional tumors was smaller (7.0 cm) than that of nonfunctional tumors (12.0 cm), but the sizes of the two groups overlapped. Smaller tumors were more likely to be homogeneous and have well-defined margins than were larger tumors. Our findings indicate that extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas are functionally active more often than previously reported and that they are readily detected by CT as soft-tissue masses closely associated with the entire length of the abdominal aorta. However, no CT feature was found that was unique for paraganglioma. 
Upbeat and downbeat nystagmus occurring successively in a patient with posterior medullary haemorrhage. In a patient with posterior medullary haemorrhage, first upbeat and later downbeat nystagmus occurred in the primary position. The lesion was limited to the posterior and medial part of the medulla. Clinical and electro-oculographic examination first showed upbeat nystagmus in the primary position and upgaze, with downbeat nystagmus in downgaze. Two and a half months later, there was downbeat nystagmus in the primary position and downgaze and upbeat nystagmus in upgaze. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of choroidal melanoma with and without gadolinium contrast enhancement. Choroidal melanoma is the most common intraocular tumor and is uniquely suited for evaluation by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) because of the paramagnetic effect of the melanin molecule. The authors performed T1-, T2-, and proton-density-weighted MRI on 34 patients with choroidal melanoma. Nineteen patients received gadolinium contrast, T1-weighted images were superior in both detecting and delineating tumors, showing increased contrast-to-noise ratios over other images. Gadolinium contrast further increased this ratio. These images are presented as evidence that gadolinium-enhanced MRI is valuable in the evaluation of choroidal melanoma. 
Comparison of standard external CPR, open-chest CPR, and cardiopulmonary bypass in a canine myocardial infarct model. STUDY OBJECTIVES: After cardiac arrest, open-chest CPR (OCCPR) and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) have demonstrated higher resuscitation rates when compared individually with standard external CPR (SECPR). We compared all three techniques in a canine myocardial infarct ventricular fibrillation model. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-six mongrel dogs were block-randomized to receive SECPR and advanced life support (nine), CPB (nine), or OCCPR (eight). DESIGN AND INTERVENTIONS: All dogs received left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion followed by four minutes of ventricular fibrillation without CPR and eight minutes of Thumper CPR. At 12 minutes, dogs received one of three resuscitation techniques. After resuscitation, all animals received four hours of intensive care. Animals that were resuscitated had histochemical determination of ischemic and necrotic myocardial areas. MEASUREMENTS: Intravascular pressures were measured and coronary perfusion pressure was calculated during baseline, cardiac arrest, resuscitation, and postresuscitation periods. Percent necrotic myocardium, percent ischemic myocardium, and necrotic-to-ischemic ratios were determined for resuscitated animals. Epinephrine dosage and number of countershocks were determined for each group. MAIN RESULTS: Nine of nine CPB and six of nine OCCPR, compared with two of eight SECPR animals, were resuscitated (P less than .01). Three of nine CPB and OCCPR and two of eight SECPR dogs survived to four hours (P = NS). Coronary perfusion pressure two minutes after institution of technique was significantly higher with CPB (75 +/- 37 mm Hg) and OCCPR (56 +/- 31 mm Hg) than in SECPR animals (16 +/- 16 mm Hg, P less than .04). Epinephrine required for resuscitation was significantly less with CPB (0.10 +/- 0.02 mg/kg) than for SECPR (0.28 +/- 0.11 mg/kg, P less than .002). The ratio of necrotic to ischemic myocardium at four hours was significantly lower with CPB (0.15 +/- 0.31) and OCCPR (0.39 +/- 0.25) than for SECPR (1.16 +/- 0.31, P less than .02). CONCLUSION: OCCPR and CPB produce higher coronary perfusion pressures and improved resuscitation rates from ventricular fibrillation when compared with SECPR in this canine myocardial infarct cardiac arrest model. CPB and OCCPR yielded similar resuscitation results, although less epinephrine was required with CPB. 
Indices of reperfusion in patients with acute myocardial infarction using characteristics of the CK-MB time-activity curve. The purpose of this study was to identify indices of coronary artery reperfusion in patients treated with thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by means of characteristics from the serum creatine kinase (CK) isoenzyme MB time-activity curve. Frequent blood sampling as performed in three groups with a first AMI: 29 patients treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy who had a patent infarct-related artery with normal flow (TIMI-3) at acute catheterization (reperfusion group); four patients with a persistently closed infarct-related artery (no reperfusion group); and 44 patients who did not receive any therapy aimed at coronary reperfusion (no thrombolytic therapy group). In the latter group we prospectively estimated that 25% would have spontaneous reperfusion. A physiologically based computer-calculated multi-compartment method was used to determine the characteristics of the serum CK-MB time-activity curve. In addition to demonstrating an earlier increase, a shorter time to peak of serum CK-MB and a lower estimated infarct size in the reperfusion group (p = 0.025 to 0.00001), the appearance rate constant (k1) and time from estimated initial increase to peak of CK-MB in the blood stream (tRP) were significantly different from those values in the no thrombolytic therapy group (p less than 00001). A cutoff level indicating reperfusion if k1 was greater than 0.185 or tRP was less than 16.5 hours demonstrated overlapping values between these two groups in only four patients (k1), two patients (tRP), and six patients with a combination. 
Ruptured interstitial pregnancy presenting as an intrauterine pregnancy by ultrasound. Interstitial pregnancy is an uncommon subset of ectopic pregnancy in which the conceptum implants in the intrauterine portion of the fallopian tube. These pregnancies tend to progress further before rupture than do other tubal pregnancies and subsequently have greater propensity for massive intra-abdominal bleeding and maternal demise. Abdominal ultrasound can be deceptive in evaluating interstitial ectopic pregnancies. Transvaginal ultrasonography is more sensitive in the diagnosis of early ectopic pregnancy. Knowledge of the application and limitations of both transabdominal and transvaginal ultrasound will assist the emergency physician in the timely evaluation of this potentially lethal condition. 
Carcinoma of the prostate: value of transrectal sonography in detecting extension into the neurovascular bundle. Detection of involvement of the neurovascular bundles (NVB) by tumor is important in deciding whether sexual function can be preserved in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy for prostatic cancer. The nerve branches innervating the corpora cavernosa have a rather constant association with the capsular arteries and veins of the prostate, forming the periprostatic neurovascular bundle, which can be identified intraoperatively and spared during radical surgery, thus preserving potency. We examined 160 patients with biopsy-proved clinical stage A or B adenocarcinoma with transrectal sonography before radical prostatectomy to determine how useful the procedure is for predicting tumor extension into the NVB. Correlation with pathologic serial sections was obtained in each patient. The sonograms depicted the NVB on both sides in 77 patients (50%), on the right side only in 13 (8%), and on the left side only in 36 patients (23%). In 29 patients (19%) neither neurovascular bundle could be identified on the sonograms. Ninety-one tumors in this series showed evidence of extraglandular spread pathologically, which was posterolateral or into the NVB in 70 tumors involving 82 hemispheres. Using transrectal sonography, we correctly identified invasion of the NVB in 54 cases and missed it in 28 cases. NVB invasion was predicted incorrectly with transrectal sonography in 51 cases; absence of involvement of the NVB was correctly predicted in 177 hemispheres. The sensitivity of sonography for predicting invasion of the NVB was 66%, with a specificity of 78% and an accuracy of 75%. Positive predictive values and negative predictive values were 51% and 86%, respectively. We conclude that transrectal sonography currently suffers from lack of sufficient spatial resolution to detect accurately invasion of the NVB. 
C4b-binding protein exacerbates the host response to Escherichia coli. Activated protein C is a plasma anticoagulant. For activated protein C to function as an anticoagulant, it must form a complex with protein S. Protein S anticoagulant activity is neutralized by formation of a reversible complex with C4b binding protein (C4bBP). C4bBP is an acute-phase plasma protein. When C4bBP levels increase, mass action forces the level of free protein S to decrease, giving rise to an acquired functional protein S deficiency. It has been proposed that these elevated C4bBP levels and the resultant acquired deficiency of protein S that occurs in inflammation could contribute to a hypercoagulable state. An experimental model to test this hypothesis was suggested by our previous studies that demonstrated that inhibition of protein C activation rendered baboons hypercoagulable in response to sublethal Escherichia coli infusion (J Clin Invest 79:918, 1987). We have extended these studies to examine the effect of inhibition of protein S activity with C4bBP in the host (baboon) response to infusion of sublethal concentrations of E coli organisms. Five sets of animals were studied: (1) those challenged with sublethal concentrations of E coli alone (0.4 x 10(10)/kg); (2) those supplemented only with C4bBP (20 mg/kg); (3) those challenged with the same level of E coli but supplemented with C4bBP (20 mg/kg); (4) those challenged with sublethal E coli and supplemented with C4bBP (20 mg/kg) and sufficient protein S (2.3 mg/kg) to fill the protein S binding sites on C4bBP; and (5) those challenged with lethal concentrations of E coli. Sublethal E coli infusion (group 1 animals) caused only an acute-phase response with no consumption of fibrinogen, detectable organ damage, or detectable tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in the plasma. C4bBP infusion (group 2 animals) resulted in no significant physiologic changes, no detectable plasma TNF, and little change in fibrinogen level. The group 3 animals, receiving both sublethal E coli and C4bBP, exhibited rapid consumption of fibrinogen, systemic organ damage, and detectable circulating TNF ultimately leading to death. The overall response of this group was very similar to the response of the group 5 animals receiving an LD100 dose of E coli. The group 4 animals, which were treated exactly as above except that C4bBP was supplemented with a slight excess of protein S, responded essentially like those that received sublethal E coli alone. These studies suggest that the elevation of C4bBP during an inflammatory response can contribute to fibrinogen consumption and vascular damage. This vascular damage may be associated with enhanced elaboration of cytokines like TNF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Functional recovery after traumatic transtentorial herniation. To elucidate the factors associated with functional recovery after traumatic transtentorial herniation, we reviewed the records of 153 consecutive patients admitted with clinical signs of transtentorial herniation (altered level of consciousness, anisocoria or pupillary unresponsiveness, and abnormal motor findings). Overall, 28 patients (18%) had a functional outcome: 14 patients (9%) made a good recovery and 14 were moderately disabled. Sixteen patients (10.5%) were severely disabled or vegetative, and 104 (60%) died. Compared with patients who died or were left severely disabled or vegetative, patients who had a good recovery were younger (21 versus 38 years), were significantly more likely to be children (less than or equal to 17 years old) and have anisocoria and a deteriorating Glasgow Coma Score (GCS), and were significantly less likely to be flaccid or have bilaterally fixed pupils; moderately disabled patients also had a lower median age and a higher frequency of anisocoria. There was no difference in the incidence of significant intracranial hematomas between patients with a functional outcome and those with a nonfunctional outcome. Twenty-seven percent of the 95 patients with anisocoria had a good outcome or moderate disability, whereas only 3.5% of the 58 patients with bilaterally fixed and dilated pupils at admission had a functional recovery (P less than 0.05). Age, level of consciousness, and the degree of residual upper brain stem function at admission appear to be the most important determinants of functional outcome after traumatic transtentorial herniation. 
Idiopathic and L-tryptophan-associated eosinophilic fasciitis before and after L-tryptophan contamination. Recently, a causative association has been made between the ingestion of levotryptophan (L-tryptophan) and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS), a new entity manifested by peripheral blood eosinophilia, myalgias, constitutional symptoms, and cutaneous edema with fibrosis. Contaminated levotryptophan preparations produced at a single manufacturing company between October 1988 and June 1989 have been implicated in all EMS cases. In this study, we analyzed retrospectively 49 patients with cutaneous fibrosis for a history of levotryptophan use. Levotryptophan ingestion prior to the onset of their disease was reported by 11 (65%) of 17 patients with eosinophilic fascilitis (EF), two (20%) of 10 patients with localized scleroderma, and none of 22 patients with systemic sclerosis. The onset of levotryptophan-associated cutaneous disease preceded the availability of contaminated levotryptophan preparations in seven (54%) of 13 patients. One patient with levotryptophan-associated generalized morphea also had lichen sclerosus et atrophicus and acanthosis nigricans, findings not previously reported in patients with EMS. In addition, we compared the clinical and laboratory features of levotryptophan-associated EF and idiopathic EF. Myalgias, muscle weakness, paresthesias, morpheaform plaques, cutaneous ulcers, and livedo reticularis were more common in patients with levotryptophan-associated EF. We conclude that levotryptophan-associated EF and localized scleroderma were present before the presumed date of contaminated levotryptophan availability. The clinical spectrum of cutaneous fibrosis associated with the ingestion of levotryptophan includes generalized morphea and EF, which are similar though not identical to their idiopathic counterparts. 
Prevalence and malignant potential of colorectal polyps in asymptomatic, average-risk men. Screening colonoscopy was performed on 119 asymptomatic elderly men with no other risk factors for colonic neoplasms. Ninety adenomas were detected in 49 (41%) subjects. Mean adenoma size was 6.5 mm, with 83 (92%) less than or equal to 10 mm. Forty-nine (54%) adenomas were located proximal to the splenic flexure, and 17 (19%) were classified as tubulovillous or villous. Moderate- to high-grade dysplasia was found in 29 (32%) adenomas and was associated with larger size (p less than 0.0001) and villous architecture (p = 0.0038). Two subjects harbored adenomas with invasive cancer. Seventy-one hyperplastic polyps were found in 40 (34%) subjects. The mean size of hyperplastic polyps was 3.4 mm, and 64 (90%) were located in the left colon. We conclude that, in this population, adenomas are common lesions that are frequently small. However, substantial proportions of these adenomas may be at risk for malignant degeneration due to the presence of villous architecture and higher grades of dysplasia. Because adenomas and hyperplastic polyps are endoscopically indistinguishable, all polyps found at endoscopy should be removed or ablated. 
Direct myocardial revascularization without extracorporeal circulation. Experience in 700 patients Between May 1978 and March 1990, 700 patients were operated on with direct coronary surgery without extracorporeal circulation (ECC): 529 (76 percent) were male and 171 (24 percent) were female. The average age was 64 years (range, 35 to 86 years), 454 (65 percent) had unstable angina, 163 (23 percent) had stable angina, 51 (7 percent) had postmyocardial infarction angina, and 32 (5 percent) had acute myocardial infarction at the moment of the operation. In this series of patients, all branches of the coronary arteries were bypassed; the mammary artery was used in 40 percent of the cases, the average bypass per patient was 2.2 (range, 1 to 5), and 26 percent had associated disease of high risk to undergo ECC. The morbidity was 4 percent and the mortality for this series of patients was 1 percent; the probability of survival at seven years was 90 percent. This experience shows us that this surgery is an alternative in the treatment of coronary disease, especially for aged patients with associated disease, in some cases of acute transmural infarction, and also for patients who need coronary angioplasty. Also, it can improve the relation cost/benefit in coronary surgery. 
Diazepam and intubation in emergency treatment of seizures in children. STUDY OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to determine the incidence of endotracheal intubation after the use of diazepam compared with phenobarbital or phenytoin in emergency treatment of seizures in children. DESIGN: The records of all children (98) were reviewed in a case-control fashion. A logistic regression model was used to determine whether there was an association between diazepam administration and intubation, adjusting for all other covariates (age, weight, convulsion time before first anticonvulsant was given, response latency, diagnosis, and therapy). SETTING: All children were treated in an emergency department and then transported to a tertiary pediatric center by a pediatric transport team. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: All patients were children, with a median age of 2.7 years (range 0.17 to 15.3 years). INTERVENTIONS: None. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Only the use of diazepam was found to be significantly associated with intubation after adjusting for all other covariates (adjusted odds ratio, 49.4; P less than .001). In the comparison of diazepam versus phenobarbital or phenytoin used as the first anticonvulsant, median response latency did not differ (27.0 vs 32.5 minutes, P greater than .83). CONCLUSION: A significant association was found between diazepam use and intubation. Response latency was not shorter when diazepam was used as the initial anticonvulsant compared with phenobarbital or phenytoin. 
Arterial hemorrhage after pancreatoduodenectomy. The 'sentinel bleed'. Experienced centers report reduced operative mortality after pancreatoduodenectomy for cancer, but significant complications continue to occur in as many as 25% of patients. Anastomotic disruption leads to sepsis in the pancreatic bed where major vascular structures have been exposed by regional lymphadenectomy, creating a setting for arterial erosion or ligature slough and massive hemorrhage. Dehiscence of the pancreatojejunostomy is a particular risk. We treated five patients with arterial hemorrhage after pancreatoduodenectomy, all of whom had had "sentinel" bleeding from the abdominal drains or gastrointestinal tract. Results of endoscopy were misleading in two patients. Three of five patients were saved by prompt recognition, early operation, and, in one instance, angiographic embolization. Sentinel bleeding after pancreatoduodenectomy indicates local sepsis and probable anastomotic dehiscence. Recognition of its significance and prompt response may prevent exsanguination. 
Observer variation in assessing neurophysical signs among patients with head injuries. As an early phase in the development of a valid and reliable measure of the neurophysical sequelae after head injury, we carried out assessments of interrater agreement on representative items. The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of agreement among expert raters who independently measured neurophysical signs on patients undergoing physical rehabilitation after brain injury. Agreement was described using the index of crude agreement, expected agreement and Kappa. Therapists showed a high degree of agreement on those items forming part of a routine neurological assessment: prehension, coordination, voluntary movements and tendon reflexes. Crude agreement ranged from 77.8-100%. There was considerable discordance in assessing muscle tonus, equilibrium and protective reactions, spinal reflexes, tremor and dysmetria (crude agreement ranged from 49.7-97.9%). Although, the number of subjects was small, the information generated from this study will be useful in refining our instrument for the assessment of neurophysical signs. 
Nontraumatic abdominal aortic thrombosis presenting with anterior spinal artery syndrome and pulmonary edema. A 51-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer developed pulmonary edema and lower extremity paraplegia with preservation of proprioception as the initial manifestation of abdominal aortic thrombosis. Back pain was present in the lumbar region radiating to buttocks and legs in a bilateral radicular pattern. Femoral pulses were initially palpable. Aortic angiography revealed complete abdominal aortic occlusion at L3 as well as total occlusion of the bilateral superficial femoral arteries and bilateral common iliac arteries. Transient occlusion of the anterior spinal artery due to aortic thrombosis may cause paraplegia and may also progress to renal failure, bowel infarction, and limb loss if left untreated. Abdominal aortic thrombosis needs to be considered in a patient who presents with an anterior spinal artery syndrome, which, if present, must be treated as rapidly as possible to preserve motor and sensory function. 
Use of the robust sib-pair method to screen for single-locus, multiple-locus, and pleiotropic effects: application to traits related to hypertension. Robust sib-pair linkage analysis can be used as a screening tool in the search for the potential involvement of single-loci, multiple-loci, and pleiotropic effects of single loci underlying phenotypic variation. Four large families were each ascertained through one adult white male with essential hypertension. The robust sib-pair method was used to screen these families for evidence of linkage between 39 quantitative traits related to hypertension and 25 genetic marker loci. All traits were analyzed on the untransformed, square-root and log-transformed scales. Among other findings, there is a suggestion of linkage between the 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase locus on chromosome 1p36 and mean fifth-phase diastolic blood pressure. There may also be linkage between the following markers and traits: the adenylate kinase-1 marker and/or the Lewis blood group marker and the traits height, weight, and biacromial breadth; the glyoxylase I marker and the traits upper-arm circumference and suprailiac skinfold thickness; the ABO blood group and adenylate kinase-1 markers on chromosome 9q34 and the third component of complement marker on chromosome 19p13 and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase; and the P1 blood group and the traits weight and 1-h postload serum glucose level. 
Subcutaneous lidocaine for treatment of neuropathic cancer pain. Three patients with terminal malignancy reporting ineffective analgesia using systemic and subsequently spinal opiates were treated with subcutaneous infusion of 10% lidocaine hydrochloride. During the infusion, reasonably stable blood concentrations were achieved and maintained using a subcutaneous infusion at varying dose rates over days to months with improvement of the pain complaints which continued to be refractory to conventional analgesics. Blood lidocaine levels obtained at regular intervals revealed effective concentrations between 2 and 5 micrograms/ml for each patient. 
Not all nonpalpable breast cancers are alike. Clinical and mammographic data of 1009 consecutive patients were correlated with histopathologic data of 1144 biopsy specimens of nonpalpable breast lesions to better define the presentation and biologic behavior of early breast cancer. Patients with malignant neoplasms (269 [24%] of 1144 specimens) were older (mean age, 62.1 years) than patients with benign lesions (mean age, 54.9 years). Furthermore, patients with invasive disease were older (mean age, 63.3 years) than patients with noninvasive disease (mean age, 58.5 years) with an overall increased risk of invasive cancer per year of 1.035. A 58% incidence of invasive cancer was detected for lesions characterized by calcifications, while the incidence of invasive cancer was 84% for isolated mass lesions (relative risk, 4.31 for masses). Isolated mammographic calcifications associated with cancer appeared in a younger population and were significantly associated with noninvasive ductal cancer. Breast cancer presenting as a mammographic mass appeared in an older group and was highly associated with the presence of invasive disease. 
Effect of various lipid emulsions on total parenteral nutrition-induced hepatosteatosis in rats. The effect of various lipid emulsions on the development of fatty liver during total parenteral nutrition (TPN) was investigated in rats given TPN for 7 days. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT), long-chain triglycerides (LCT), chemically defined triglycerides (CDT; structured lipid with a high purity of 94.3%), and a mixture of MCT and LCT (MIX) were prepared as the lipid emulsions. TPN provided 350 kcal/kg/day, with a nonprotein calorie/nitrogen ratio of 160. The TPN-1 group received 10% nonprotein calories and the TPN-2 group received 30% nonprotein calories. MCT TPN was found to have some disadvantages, especially with regard to nitrogen balance and plasma albumin levels. Total cholesterol and phospholipids tended to be high in the MCT TPN group. The hepatic lipid content was higher in the lipid-free TPN and the MCT TPN groups, and lower in the CDT and LCT TPN groups. Histologically, the livers of the MIX, CDT, and LCT TPN groups showed less fatty change than those of the FREE and MCT groups. 
Anticonvulsant activity of two orally active competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists, CGP 37849 and CGP 39551, against sound-induced seizures in DBA/2 mice and photically induced myoclonus in Papio papio. Two novel N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid CPG 37849 and the corresponding 1-ethyl ester CGP 39551, were tested as anticonvulsants in DBA/2 mice and photosensitive Senegalese baboons, Papio papio. In DBA/2 mice, CGP 37849 is more potent than CGP 39551 when administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or intraperitoneally (i.p.) (ED50 for suppression of clonic seizures at 60 min: i.c.v. 0.038 and 0.21 nmol; i.p. 3.40 and 19.1 mumol/kg, respectively). When administered orally in mice, the two compounds are approximately equipotent (ED50 CGP 37849, 35.2 mumol/kg; ED50 CGP 39551, 28.1 mumol/kg). The time course of action of CGP 39551 is exceptionally prolonged: 42 mumol/kg i.p. protects against clonic seizures for 48 h. Protection provided by other NMDA antagonists in mice is of much shorter duration: 2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoic acid (AP5) 1 h, 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid (AP7) 4 h, 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid 1-ethyl ester 3 h, 4-(3-phosphonopropyl)-2-piperazine carboxylic acid (CPP) 2 h, cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)-2-piperidine-carboxylic acid (CGS 19755) 4 h, and CGP 37849 4 h. After oral administration of the drugs, the therapeutic index (TI = ratio of the ED50 values for rotorod performance and anticonvulsant protection) remains relatively constant at 5.9-7.2 for 3 h (CGP 37849) and 4.0-6.1 for 24 h (CGP 39551). After i.p. administration, the TI values are CGP 37849 at 1 h 2.4, and at 3 h 20.0, CGP 39551 at 1 h 2.3, at 3 h 7.1, and at 24 h 3.6. In baboons, acute administration of CGP 37849 at doses of 48-191 mumol/kg intravenously (i.v.) suppresses photically induced myoclonus for at least 285 min, with severe side effects at the highest dose tested. CGP 39551 at doses of 169-675 mumol/kg i.v. shows weak anticonvulsant activity only at the highest dose tested (accompanied by severe side effects). CGP 37849 at 48-96 mumol/kg orally (p.o.) fails to protect against photically induced myoclonus up to 4 h after administration, but 191 mumol/kg (40 mg/kg) p.o. produces complete suppression of seizures after 24 h. On the other hand, CGP 39551 at 169 mumol/kg (40 mg/kg) p.o. produces total suppression of seizure activity at 4 h with a longer duration of anticonvulsant action (2-3 days).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
A geriatric-anesthesiologic program to reduce acute confusional states in elderly patients treated for femoral neck fractures. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of a geriatric-anesthesiologic intervention program for the prevention and treatment of acute confusional states (ACS) in elderly patients treated for femoral neck fractures. The intervention program was based on the results of previous prospective studies in similar patient populations. The outcome of the intervention, comprising 103 patients, was compared with that of an earlier study comprising 111 patients. The intervention program consisted of pre- and post-operative geriatric assessments, oxygen therapy, early surgery, prevention and treatment of peri-operative blood pressure falls and treatment of post-operative complications. The incidence of ACS was lower, 47.6%, in the intervention study compared with 61.3% (P less than 0.05) in the control study. Furthermore, the ACS that occurred in the intervention study was less severe and of shorter duration than that in the control study. The incidence of post-operative decubital ulcers, severe falls, and urinary retention was also lower. The mean duration of orthopedic ward stay was 17.4 days in the control study and 11.6 days in the intervention study (P less than 0.001). It can be concluded that the intervention program reduced the incidence, severity, and duration of ACS which resulted in a shortened orthopedic ward stay. 
Testicular scanning: evaluating the acute scrotum in the clinical setting. In a retrospective study of patients with acute scrotal pain presenting to the hospitals of Southern Illinois University School of Medicine from January 1982 until September 1987, determination was made of the appropriate use of testicular scan for definitive diagnosis. Though the testicular scan is a highly sensitive and specific examination in the identification of testicular torsion, we believe its routine use in clinical practice is limited. Appropriate utilization of the examination requires its use in high-risk groups with equivocal physical findings or in patients with unusual presentations of age, anatomy, or neurologic deficit. The scan if used for routine screening of the acute scrotum would result in needless delays and unjustifiable expense when it is mandatory that the treatment be immediate surgical exploration. 
Hereditary hyperparathyroidism and multiple ossifying jaw fibromas: a clinically and genetically distinct syndrome. A large previously reported family with hyperparathyroidism has been reinvestigated recently because of the occurrence of multiple ossifying jaw fibromas in two affected members of the third generation similar to the jaw tumors of four of five affected members of the first generation. These maxillary and mandibular tumors can be differentiated from the "brown tumors" of hyperparathyroidism because they can appear and enlarge even though the hypercalcemia is surgically corrected. These tumors are histologically distinct fibroosseous lesions without the giant cells seen in "brown tumors." The parathyroid enlargement was mostly uniglandular, with multiple tumors found occasionally. Studies in DNA linkage were performed within this large family and a similar family in Houston to determine if the gene for this syndrome, termed HRPT2, is linked to DNA markers on chromosome 11, to which the gene for multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 1 has been linked. (This linkage is supported by our findings in one family with MEN 1 reported here.) Linkage studies were also performed with markers on chromosome 10, to which the genes for MEN 2A and MEN 2B have been linked. Evidence against close linkage with chromosome 10 and chromosome 11 markers suggests that this clinically distinct syndrome is also genetically distinct. 
Carcinoma erysipeloides. We report an 83-year-old woman with carcinoma erysipeloides due to an occult carcinoma. Immunohistochemical study of skin biopsies showed reactivity to S-100 protein and human milk fat globule antigen indicating that the tumour originated in the breast. 
Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography of atrioventricular septal defect. To determine the accuracy and utility of single-plane transesophageal echocardiography in analyzing atrioventricular (AV) septal defect, intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography was performed before and after institution of cardiopulmonary bypass in 16 patients (age 24 days to 14 years, weight 3 to 47 kg). Prebypass transesophageal echocardiography (including two-dimensional echocardiography, Doppler color flow mapping and pulsed wave Doppler ultrasound) correctly diagnosed divided AV valve, common AV valve and unbalanced AV valve, as well as atrial or ventricular septal defect, or both, in all cases. It correctly analyzed AV valve regurgitation in all 10 patients with right and all 14 with left AV valve regurgitation and correctly analyzed 30 of 33 additional cardiac anomalies. Transesophageal echocardiography was able to detect the absence of normal pulmonary venous connections but failed to demonstrate all of the complex anomalous pulmonary venous connections in three patients with atrial isomerism. Postbypass transesophageal echocardiography documented the absence of a significant residual shunt in 11 of 11 patients undergoing corrective surgery and verified residual AV valve regurgitation in 7 of 9 patients with tricuspid regurgitation and 11 of 13 with mitral regurgitation. Transesophageal echocardiographic information that altered or refined the surgical treatment was obtained in 5 (31%) of 16 patients. Epicardial and transesophageal echocardiography results were concordant in all 13 patients in whom both were performed. Transesophageal echocardiography provides useful and accurate imaging of the important two-dimensional, pulsed wave Doppler ultrasound and Doppler color flow mapping features in AV septal defect. 
Primary angiosarcoma of the brain. We have described a 32-year-old black woman who had a primary angiosarcoma of the right occipital lobe. All three previously reported cases have been fatal within 1 year. Our patient is doing well more than 3 1/2 years after surgery. 
Abnormal liver enzyme-mediated metabolism in Parkinson's disease: a second look. If toxicant exposure contributes to the cause of Parkinson's disease, poor function of detoxifying enzymes could increase vulnerability for Parkinson's disease. Although no hepatic enzyme system has been shown universally to be dysfunctional in Parkinson's disease patients, several have been suggested to be dysfunctional in subgroups, such as those with young age at disease onset. Specific enzymes implicated include several P450 enzymes, most notably P450 IID6, and cysteine dioxygenase. If hepatic enzyme abnormalities contribute to the development of Parkinson's disease, molecular genetic techniques may allow the development of screening tests to identify at-risk subjects in order to intervene with protective therapies. 
Bilateral ureteral obstruction following aortobifemoral bypass graft. In this report we present a case of bilateral ureteral obstruction, a potentially serious late complication of aortic bifurcation surgery. The incidence, aetiology, clinical presentation and treatment are discussed. 
Does patient age or intestinal pathology influence the bacteria found in cases of necrotizing enterocolitis? To evaluate the relationship between bacterial colonization in neonatal peritonitis and patient age or intestinal pathology, we retrospectively reviewed peritoneal culture results from 96 infants having surgery for necrotizing enterocolitis. Microorganisms recovered mirrored those usually found as fecal flora within the neonatal intensive care unit. These reflect, in turn, the abnormal colonization intrinsic to care in the intensive care nursery. Analysis revealed no significant correlation between the disease and either age of the infant or intestinal site of disease. 
Obstruction of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta: results of treatment with balloon angioplasty. Our experience in the treatment of stenoses of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta with balloon angioplasty in 27 patients is reported. Clinical findings were lower limb claudication (all patients), impotence (eight patients), and blue-toe syndrome (two patients). The underlying disease was atherosclerosis in 24 patients and nonspecific aortoarteritis in three patients. Dilatation was successful in all patients. Embolic occlusions of the left common iliac artery (one patient) and left superficial femoral artery (one patient) were the only major complications. Claudication in the affected limb continued in the first patient; the second died when diagnostic angiography, performed 3 months after angioplasty, caused a severe atheroembolus. Of the other 25 patients, nine of the 10 followed up for 13-48 months and all seven followed up for 3-8 months were free of symptoms. Six of eight patients with sexual dysfunction had normal function after angioplasty. Seven patients still awaited follow-up and one was lost to follow-up. Our experience suggests that balloon angioplasty is an effective treatment of stenoses of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of pulmonary artery aneurysm. Pulmonary artery aneurysm is a rare condition. We have presented what we believe to be the first case in the English literature to be diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. 
Analysis of anti-tumor antibodies in mice and rabbits induced by monoclonal anti-idiotope antibodies. Eight different mouse monoclonal anti-idiotope antibodies (mAb2) generated against a mouse monoclonal anti-human melanoma proteoglycan Ag (MPG) antibody (mAb1), MEM136, were tested for their ability to induce anti-MPG responses in mice and rabbits. All Ab2 were idiotypically cross-reactive and combining site-specific as demonstrated by competitive cross-inhibition studies and their ability to inhibit the binding of MEM136 to the melanoma cells, Colo38. However, only two Ab2, IM32 and IM06, were able to induce specific anti-TAA-specific (Ab1') responses in rabbits. When IM32 and IM06 were tested in allogeneic stains of mice for the induction of anti-MPG responses, only IM32 produced an Ab1' response. In mice, the Ab3 response induced by IM32 is idiotypically cross-reactive with its Ab1. Furthermore, the IM32-induced murine Ab3 and MEM136 recognized a similar MPG epitope on the melanoma cells because the Ab3 inhibited the binding of MEM136 to melanoma cells. The Ab3 induced by IM32 and IM06 in rabbits also recognized a similar epitope as the Ab1. In rabbits, the Ab3 response induced by IM32 and IM06 were idiotypically cross-reactive with each other. However, additional studies indicated that the majority of Ab3 induced by IM32 were IM32 Id-specific and lacked IM06 idiotopes. Further experimentation indicated that IM32-induced rabbit Ab3 were biologically active as demonstrated by the ability of the Ab3 to inhibit melanoma cell invasion in a Matrigel assay. 
Large amplitude sensory action potentials in myelopathy: an observation. Subjects with at least one sensory action potential (SAP) amplitude greater than 2 SD above the age-matched mean during standard nerve conduction tests were evaluated for evidence of spinal cord disease. From a total of 153 subjects, 16 had at least one large amplitude SAP and 12 of 16 (75%) had a documented myelopathy. While a mechanism has yet to be determined, this observation suggests that SAP amplitudes greater than 2 SD above normal may be correlated with clinical evidence of injury to the central nervous system. 
Recurrent adnexal torsion and cystadenoma of aberrant ovarian tissue. Torsion of the adnexa is rare, and diagnosis is difficult because of the sparse clinical findings. I describe a patient with recurrent torsion of the right adnexa, involving a cystadenoma of aberrant ovarian tissue. Her only symptom was recurrent right-sided pelvic pain. 
Treatment of pseudotumor cerebri by primary and secondary optic nerve sheath decompression. We performed optic nerve sheath decompression in 53 patients (101 eyes) with pseudotumor cerebri and visual loss. Sixty-nine eyes (85 patients) with acute papilledema uniformly had improved visual function after optic nerve sheath decompression. Of 32 eyes with chronic papilledema (18 patients), only ten had improved visual function after optic nerve sheath decompression. This difference was significant (P = .0001). Thirteen eyes required secondary or tertiary optic nerve sheath decompression after an initial successful result. Eleven of 13 eyes had improved visual function after repeat optic nerve sheath decompression. We believe that patients with acute papilledema and visual loss should be offered optic nerve sheath decompression, and if symptoms recur, repeat optic nerve sheath decompression is a safe and effective treatment option. 
A randomized trial of ticarcillin and clavulanate versus gentamicin and clindamycin in patients with complicated appendicitis. Secondary bacterial peritonitis is usually a polymicrobial infection of facultative gram-negative aerobic and anaerobic organisms. Treatment consists of operation and broad-spectrum antibiotic administration. The antibiotic treatment of choice in these infections has been the combination of gentamicin and clindamycin. However, this combination can have toxic side effects and necessitates frequent monitoring of serum levels. Beta-lactam antibiotics provide broad-spectrum coverage and low toxicity, but can be inactivated by species of bacteria producing beta-lactamase enzymes. Clavulanic acid is a potent inhibitor of beta-lactamases and has been shown to extend the efficacy of ticarcillin to bacteria producing these enzymes. This combination was compared with gentamicin and clindamycin in 99 consecutive patients with complicated appendicitis. Eradication of identified pathogens was greater in the ticarcillin and clavulanate group (98 per cent) than in the gentamicin and clindamycin group (92 per cent), even for the subgroup of organisms producing beta-lactamases (97 versus 90 per cent eradication). Complications and clinical response were not significantly different between the two treatment groups. Ticarcillin and clavulanic acid is a safe and effective alternative to gentamicin and clindamycin in the treatment of secondary bacterial peritonitis and offers advantages in dosing simplicity and freedom from ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects. 
The accuracy of malignant diagnoses established by fine needle aspiration cytologic procedures of mammary masses. Fine needle aspiration cytologic studies are being used with increasing frequency to diagnose carcinoma of the breast. To determine whether or not a diagnosis of carcinoma established by cytologic examination is sufficiently accurate to proceed to treatment without tissue confirmation, we have examined our results in a series of 109 patients who had 111 aspiration cytologic procedures followed by open biopsy between January 1985 and June 1987. From this group, 39 specimens were read as malignant and 19 were read as suspicious. Thirty-eight of 39 specimens with positive readings were from lesions that proved to be malignant on subsequent open biopsy. Seventeen of 19 suspicious specimens were also from malignant lesions. Three of 17 specimens that were inadequate and nine of 36 negative specimens were from lesions that were later shown to be malignant. Our single false-positive result occurred on cells that had been air dried during preparation in the early months of experience with this technique at our institution. Re-evaluated later in our series, the same specimen was called suspicious rather than malignant. We conclude that a positive reading on fine needle aspiration is highly accurate. The positive predictive value should be 100 per cent, once experience is gained in preparing and interpreting the material. Open biopsy is necessary for inadequate, negative or suspicious specimens to exclude a malignant lesion if the clinical or mammographic findings are consistent with carcinoma. 
Neurocutaneous melanosis: definition and review of the literature. Neurocutaneous melanosis is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of large or multiple congenital melanocytic nevi and benign or malignant pigment cell tumors of the leptomeninges. The syndrome is thought to represent an error in the morphogenesis of the embryonal neuroectoderm. We review 39 reported cases of neurocutaneous melanosis and propose revised criteria for diagnosis. Most patients with neurocutaneous melanosis presented in the first 2 years of life with neurologic manifestations of increased intracranial pressure, mass lesions, or spinal cord compression. Leptomeningeal melanoma was present in 62% of the cases, but even in the absence of melanoma, symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis had an extremely poor prognosis. Useful diagnostic procedures include cerebrospinal fluid cytology and magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium contrast. Patients may be aided by palliative measures such as shunt placement to reduce intracranial pressure. Dermatologists in their follow-up of patients with large or multiple congenital melanocytic nevi should be aware of this condition, to aid in prompt diagnosis and because the treatment of cutaneous lesions may be altered in the presence of symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis. 
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of pancreatic duct stones. Chronic calcifying pancreatitis presents a major clinical problem, often requiring extensive surgery. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) offers a new therapeutic option. We applied ESWL after endoscopic sphincterotomy of the pancreatic orifice in eight patients with impacted pancreatic duct stones. An electromagnetic lithotriptor (Siemens Lithostar, Erlangen, FRG) was used. Patients were treated in prone position under fluoroscopic control. A mean of 6,813 shock waves (range 1,500-10,000) was delivered in one or two sessions. Disintegration of stones was achieved in 6/8 patients, initial relief of pain in 7/8 patients, and total clearance of the pancreatic duct in 3/8 patients. One patient had an exacerbation of her pancreatitis one day after ESWL, which resolved rapidly with medical treatment. No other complications were observed. Four of five patients with fragmented stones had no abdominal complaints at follow-up (mean 17 months, range 3-27). Three patients in whom ESWL was not completely successful (two without and one with partial fragmentation) underwent an operation according to Puestow. Two of them still have abdominal complaints after surgery. From these data, we conclude that ESWL of pancreatic duct stones is a promising new alternative for surgery, when endoscopic stone extraction fails. 
Iron oxide-enhanced MR imaging of the liver and spleen: review of the first 5 years. Superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) particles are a potent new class of MR contrast agents affording improved detection of hepatic and splenic neoplasms. In this report we review the development of this agent through preclinical studies and early clinical results at Massachusetts General Hospital during a 5-year investigation. SPIO particles are sequestered by normal phagocytic Kupffer cells of the reticuloendothelial system (RES) but are not retained in tumor tissue. Consequently, there is a fivefold increase in T2 relaxation between normal RES tissue and tumor, with a comparable advantage in quantitative signal-to-noise ratio, contrast-to-noise ratio, and lesion detectability in the liver and spleen on MR imaging. Increased lesion conspicuity can be exploited to decrease threshold size for lesion detection to less than 3 mm. Clinically beneficial effects occur with a variety of mildly T2-weighted spin-echo pulse sequences; gradient-echo techniques show even greater benefit after administration of SPIO. Metabolically, pharmaceutical-grade preparations are biodegradable and bioavailable, being rapidly turned over into body iron stores and incorporated into erythrocyte hemoglobin. Early dose-escalation clinical trials have identified a probable clinical dose range of 10-20 mumols Fe/kg body weight. In the United States, SPIO compounds evaluated to date are still approved for use in investigational studies only. Newer commercial formulations currently being evaluated may extend clinical safety margins. 
Extended duration of herpes simplex virus DNA in genital lesions detected by the polymerase chain reaction. To evaluate the utility of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for documenting herpes simplex virus (HSV) in persons with reactivated genital lesions viral isolation was compared with a recently developed PCR method. Three women experiencing four episodes of recurrent genital herpes were followed for 10 days per episode with daily examination and duplicate swabs of the lesions, one for HSV culture and one for PCR. HSV type 2 was cultured from three of four episodes and the mean duration of viral isolation from recurrent genital lesions was 2.6 days. PCR detected HSV DNA from lesion swabs during all four episodes, and HSV DNA was positive for an average of 6.8 days. HSV DNA was demonstrated in ulcerative lesions on 15 of 17 days versus 3 of 17 days by viral isolation (P less than .01). HSV PCR became negative when the lesions reepithelialized. These data suggest that PCR is a more sensitive measure of HSV infection than routine viral culture and that PCR detects the presence of HSV at times when culture is negative. 
Triple agent immunosuppression in serpiginous choroiditis. Serpiginous choroidopathy is a progressive choroidal inflammatory disorder that typically has a variable saltatory course. Response to steroids is uncertain. By using azathioprine, cyclosporine, and prednisone in combination, the authors have observed rapid remission of active disease in five patients. Remissions have been maintained for periods up to 18 months. Because of the synergistic effects of this combination, doses could rapidly be reduced to maintenance levels without reactivation. Disease in two patients recurred immediately after discontinuation of low-dose therapy but was arrested when therapy resumed. Triple agent immunosuppressive therapy is well tolerated and appears to be effective. 
Hypertension-induced changes of platelet-derived growth factor receptor expression in rat aorta and heart. Hypertension-associated growth of vascular smooth muscle cells might be mediated in vivo by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Our previous investigations in hypertensive rats failed to demonstrate changes in aortic steady-state mRNA levels of PDGF A or B chains. The current studies were performed to determine whether hypertension might affect the expression of PDGF receptors. We studied PDGF alpha- and beta-receptor gene expression by Northern analysis using human and rat cDNA probes. Studies of tissue distribution revealed that PDGF beta-receptor mRNA was most abundant in total aorta and aortic media, whereas the PDGF alpha-receptor mRNA was most abundant in the lung and was expressed at low levels in aortic tissue. Deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertension induced a threefold increase in aortic steady-state PDGF beta-receptor mRNA levels. Aortic PDGF beta-receptor expression also was higher in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) when compared with age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) controls. Aortic PDGF alpha-receptor steady-state mRNA levels were unchanged in DOCA-salt hypertension and were expressed at similar levels in WKY rats and SHRs. Unlike the findings with aorta, cardiac PDGF beta- and alpha-receptor and PDGF B-chain expressions were unchanged in the DOCA-salt model and were decreased in SHRs. These findings indicate that hypertension can increase aortic steady-state mRNA levels for PDGF beta-receptor. They also indicate that tissue-specific expression of the genes of the PDGF ligand/receptor system are differentially regulated in hypertension. 
Subglottic laryngeal closure for aspiration. Aspiration may be life threatening, particularly in those patients with severe central neurological disease. From such a group of patients, several were identified who had severe laryngeal dysfunction and aspiration. The majority of patients in this subgroup existed in a neurologically vegetative state. In an attempt to reduce the degree of aspiration they experienced, the procedure of subglottic laryngeal closure was performed. Essentially, the operation is designed to isolate the tracheal airway from the incompetent larynx. The aim is to protect the lower airway from pharyngeal contamination. In all 5 patients there was a marked improvement in general and pulmonary health. 
Pain in neonatal circumcision. Because newborn circumcision is a quick and safe surgical procedure, any method to relieve pain must be almost risk-free in order to be acceptable. General anesthesia and narcotic analgesia are not appropriate. Dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB) with lidocaine hydrochloride is probably the most effective and safest form of anesthesia for newborn circumcision currently available, but it can cause significant local and systemic reactions. Only a limited number of cases of DPNB have been reported and we feel that this procedure should be used cautiously until there is more published evidence of its safety. Alternative methods of pain relief including oral acetaminophen and topical anesthesia should also be studied. Of special interest is recent evidence that a sucrose-flavored pacifier is an effective analgesic during newborn circumcision. 
Heterogeneity of T cell lymphoblastic leukaemias. Twenty eight out of 170 consecutive cases of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) were examined. They were of T cell origin, with the following distribution: seven (28%) cases had pre-T or prothymic features; nine (36%) cases showed early thymocytic features, six (24%) had cortical features; and three (12%) had a "mature" phenotype. The remaining three cases could not be sub-classified. A striking finding was that pre-T ALL differed from intrathymic ALL not only in the absence of both E rosettes and intrathymic differentiation antigens, but also in the expression of two non-lineage specific antigens HLA-DR and CD10. Both antigens appear in the bone marrow from the very first stages of lymphoid differentiation, implying that the origin for pre-T ALL is bone marrow. A comparison of the clinical features of pre-T and thymic ALL showed that pre-T ALL disease showed a pattern more similar to non-T ALL disease: a lower incidence of mediastinal mass, absence of extrahaematopoietic disease, lower white cell counts and haemoglobin concentrations, and a higher incidence of bone pain. No obvious difference in response to treatment was apparent. The results show that T-ALL is not only a heterogeneous immunological group but also suggest that it may have different origins: bone marrow for pre-T ALL and the thymus for thymic ALL. 
A new provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia. A new provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia is described, based upon the demonstration of a fall in the intramural pH of the small bowel after introduction of a test meal into the stomach. Intramural pH (pHI) is determined indirectly by tonometry, utilizing a tonometer passed per os. Postoperative assessment of revascularization procedures is also possible by the same technique. Application of the test in an 84-yr-old woman showed good correlation between a preoperative fall in jejunal intramural pH and abdominal pain, and the absence of a fall postoperatively after successful revascularization. 
Expression of human HLA-B27 transgene alters susceptibility to murine Theiler's virus-induced demyelination. Infection of certain strains of mice with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus results in persistence of virus and an immune-mediated primary demyelination in the central nervous system that resembles multiple sclerosis. Because susceptibility/resistance to demyelination in B10 congeneic mice maps strongly to class I MHC genes (D region) we tested whether expression of a human class I MHC gene (HLA-B27) would alter susceptibility to Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus-induced demyelination. Transgenic HLA-B27 mice were found to co-express human and endogenous mouse class I MHC genes by flow microfluorimetry analysis of PBL. In the absence of the human transgene, H-2stf, or v mice but not H-2b mice had chronic demyelination and persistence of virus at 45 days after infection. No difference in degree of demyelination, meningeal inflammation, or virus persistence was seen between transgenic HLA-B27 and nontransgenic littermate mice of H-2f or H-2v haplotype. In contrast, H-2s (HLA-B27+) mice showed a dramatic decrease in extent of demyelination and number of virus-Ag+ cells in the spinal cord compared with H-2s (HLA-B27-) littermate mice. In addition, none of the eight H-2s mice homozygous for HLA-B27 gene had spinal cord lesions even though infectious virus was isolated chronically from their central nervous system. Expression of HLA-B27 transgene did not interfere with the resistance to demyelination normally observed in B10 (H-2b) mice. These experiments demonstrate that expression of a human class I MHC gene can modulate a virus-induced demyelinating disease process in the mouse. 
Ventricular arrhythmias in children with an apparently normal heart. Ventricular ectopy occurs frequently in normal children. In the presence of a normal heart, these arrhythmias, including asymptomatic, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, carry a benign prognosis and are not associated with sudden, unexpected death. However, complex ventricular arrhythmias frequently indicate the presence of underlying cardiac disease; patients with such arrhythmias must undergo an appropriately thorough evaluation before decisions regarding prognosis and the need for therapy can be made. 
Does fetal seizure activity mean a poor outcome? A case report. Fetal seizure activity is very rare: only three cases have been reported. A case of fetal seizure activity was detected with ultrasound. Such activity can be associated with a poor outcome. 
Quantification of Helicobacter pylori infection in gastritis and ulcer disease using a simple and rapid carbon-14-urea breath test. Gastric urease was studied isotopically in 230 patients with biopsy-proven normal mucosa or chronic gastritis, including 59 patients with ulcer disease. Carbon-14-urea was given in 25 ml of water without substrate carrier or nutrient-dense meal, and breath samples were collected over a 60-min period. The amount of 14CO2 excreted at 10 min was independent of the rate of gastric emptying and was not quantitatively influenced by the buccal urease activity. The 10-min 14CO2 values discriminated well between Helicobacter pylori positive and negative patients (94% sensitivity, 89% specificity) and correlated with the number of organisms assessed by histology. The test was a good predictor of chronic gastritis (95% sensitivity and 96% specificity), and a quantitative relationship was observed between 14CO2 values and the severity and activity of the gastritis. In H. pylori positive patients, breath 14CO2 was found to be similar in patients with and without ulcer disease, suggesting that the number of bacteria is not a determining factor for the onset of ulceration. 
A long-term study of hepatitis C virus replication in non-A, non-B hepatitis. BACKGROUND. Although antibodies to the hepatitis C virus (HCV) are known to be associated with non-A, non-B hepatitis, little is known about the pattern of HCV replication, its relation to antibody levels, and the clinical course of non-A, non-B hepatitis. METHODS. We measured HCV RNA in serial serum samples from five patients with post-transfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis who were followed for 10 to 14 years after transfusion. We also studied four chimpanzees that were experimentally infected with serum from four of these patients. Serum HCV RNA was detected by a "nested" polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assay that used two sets of primers derived from the third (NS3) and fourth (NS4) non-structural gene regions of the HCV genome. RESULTS. HCV sequences were detected by PCR in only two of the five patients and two of the four chimpanzees with the set of primers corresponding to the NS3 region, but in all five patients (and in all four chimpanzees) with the primers from the NS4 region. Serum HCV RNA was first detected within three weeks of transfusion in all five patients and within one week in three patients. The viremia lasted less than 4 months in the patient (and two chimpanzees) with acute, self-limited hepatitis, whereas it persisted for 10 to 14 years in the four patients (and for 1 and 3 years in two chimpanzees) with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis. Antibodies to HCV were first detected at week 12 to 14; they disappeared after nine years in the patient with self-limited disease and became borderline after five years in one of the patients with chronic disease. CONCLUSIONS. During the early phase of primary HCV infection, there is a period of several months of sero-negativity during which HCV RNA is the only diagnostic marker of infection. The disappearance of HCV RNA from serum appears to correlate with the resolution of non-A, non-B hepatitis, whereas viremia persists in patients whose disease progresses to chronic hepatitis. In contrast, antibody levels do not necessarily remain elevated in patients with chronic disease. 
Narrow-angle glaucoma presenting as acute, painless visual impairment. A 42-year-old woman presented with the acute onset of bilateral blurred vision that occurred immediately after bending over. She denied pain or any other associated symptoms. Markedly increased intraocular pressure readings were found. Treatment for acute narrow-angle glaucoma was initiated, and normal vision returned. This case represents an atypical presentation of acute narrow-angle glaucoma, a true ophthalmological emergency. The pathophysiology and treatment options of this disease process are summarized. 
Assessment of coronary artery disease using single-photon emission computed tomography with thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia. Thallium-201 myocardial imaging during dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia has been an accepted method for diagnosing coronary artery disease (CAD) and risk stratification. Adenosine is a powerful short-acting coronary vasodilator. Initial results of thallium imaging during adenosine infusion have been encouraging. In 132 patients with CAD and in 16 patients with normal coronary angiograms, adenosine was given intravenously at a dose of 0.14 mg/kg/min for 6 minutes and thallium-201 was injected at 3 minutes. The thallium images using single-photon emission computed tomography were abnormal in 47 of the 54 patients (87%) with 1-vessel, in 34 of 37 patients (92%) with 2-vessel and in 40 of 41 patients (98%) with 3-vessel CAD. The sensitivity was 92% in the 132 patients with CAD (95% confidence intervals, 86 to 96%). In patients with normal coronary angiograms, 14 of 16 patients had normal thallium images (specificity, 88%; 95% confidence intervals, 59 to 100%). The results were very similar when subgroups of patients were analyzed: those without prior myocardial infarction, elderly patients and women. The nature of the perfusion defects (fixed or reversible) was assessed in relation to whether the 4-hour delayed images were obtained with or without the reinjection technique. In patients who underwent conventional delayed imaging, there were more fixed perfusion defects than in patients with reinjection delayed imaging (16 vs 0%, p less than 0.0001). The adverse effects were mild, transient and well tolerated. Thus, adenosine thallium tomographic imaging provides a high degree of accuracy in the diagnosis of CAD. The use of the reinjection technique enhances the ability to detect reversible defects. 
Malignant schwannoma associated with xeroderma pigmentosum in a patient belonging to complementation group D. A 43-year-old man with xeroderma pigmentosum, XP97TO, was allocated to complementation group D. He had had moderate photosensitivity at age 1 year and freckles by age 6 but no neurologic abnormalities. Nevertheless, his fibroblasts in culture had the XP-D phenotype. They showed a sevenfold hypersensitivity to killing by 254 nm ultraviolet radiation and a diminished level (29%) of unscheduled DNA synthesis. Phototesting revealed delayed maximum erythema at 72 hours after UVB exposure and a lowered minimal erythema dose. Lentigo maligna developed on the patient's face, and a rapidly growing malignant schwannoma was found on the left trigeminal nerve. This may be the first case of a peripheral nervous tissue neoplasm in xeroderma pigmentosum. 
Adenosine as a vasodilator in primary pulmonary hypertension BACKGROUND. The acute administration of vasodilator drugs to patients with primary pulmonary hypertension has been advocated to identify those with reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction. Unfortunately, the usefulness of the drugs currently available is limited by accompanying systemic hypotension. A vasodilator with effects confined to the pulmonary circulation would therefore be advantageous in such patients. METHODS AND RESULTS. The purine nucleoside adenosine was infused into the pulmonary artery in seven patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (baseline pulmonary vascular resistance [PVR], 442-1,295 dyne/cm/sec-5) to determine its effect on PVR. In all patients, there was a dose-dependent and significant reduction (mean maximal percent decrease from baseline, 38.9%; p less than 0.001) in PVR mediated through a decrease in pulmonary artery pressure and an increase in cardiac output. Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) also decreased, but the ratio of PVR to SVR decreased (maximal mean percent decrease from baseline) by 10.5% (p less than 0.025), indicating that adenosine has a preferential vasodilator effect on the pulmonary circulation when administered in this manner. CONCLUSIONS. Because of its pharmacokinetic and vasodilator properties, adenosine may have a specific role in the investigation of primary pulmonary hypertension. 
Reproducibility of Doppler echocardiographic quantification of aortic and mitral valve stenoses: comparison between two echocardiography centers. Doppler echocardiography has been widely used as a noninvasive method to quantify valvular heart diseases. This study assessed the variability between 2 echocardiography centers concerning 2-dimensional and Doppler echocardiographic results in the quantification of mitral and aortic valve stenoses. Forty-two patients were studied by 2 different echocardiography centers in a blinded, independent fashion. In patients with aortic and mitral valve stenosis, mean and maximal flow velocities were measured. The aortic valve orifice area was calculated according to the continuity equation. Mitral valve orifice area was determined by direct planimetry and by pressure half-time. In patients with an aortic valve stenosis, a close relation between the 2 centers was found for the maximal and mean flow velocities (coefficient of correlation, r = 0.72 to 0.92; coefficient of variation, 3.7 to 7.7%). A close correlation and a small observer variability was found for the flow velocity ratio determined by flow velocities measured in the left ventricular outflow tract and over the stenotic valve (r = 0.88; coefficient of variation, 0.01 +/- 0.009). In contrast, there was a poor correlation between the diameter of the left ventricular outflow tract and the aortic orifice area (r = 0.36 and 0.59, respectively). In patients with a mitral valve stenosis, mean and maximal velocities were closely correlated (r = 0.85 and 0.77, respectively). Velocities were not found to be significantly different between the 2 centers. Variability between the 2 centers for the mitral valve orifice area was 9.8% (2-dimensional echocardiography) and 5.7% (pressure half-time). 
Hypercarbic ventilatory responses of human heart-lung transplant recipients. To evaluate the effects of chronic pulmonary denervation on ventilatory control, we compared the hypercarbic ventilatory responses (HCVR) of 12 human heart-lung transplant recipients (HL) and 24 normal control subjects (C). The six male HL were subsequently compared with eight male heart transplant recipients (H), as well as the 12 male C. All subjects had normal spirometry, but lung volumes of both transplant groups were somewhat less than those of C. The HCVR of HL and C were indistinguishable (2.68 +/- 0.28 versus 2.71 +/- 0.22 L/min/mm Hg, respectively). The increment of mouth occlusion pressure (delta Pm0.1/delta CO2), however, was markedly greater in HL (P much less than 0.01). The three male groups also had equivalent HCVR, and again, the HL had an increased delta Pm0.1/delta CO2. HL men exhibited larger increments of VT and decreased frequency responses during CO2 rebreathing than did male C and H, although these differences were statistically significant only in the comparison between the transplant groups. We conclude that HL with normal spirometry have appropriate HCVR, despite pulmonary denervation. Pm0.1 responses of these subjects are increased, however, reflecting either a compensatory response to greater respiratory impedances or an occult alteration of ventilatory mechanics. Moreover, compared with subjects with similar pulmonary function, e.g., heart transplant recipients, the breathing pattern of HL during progressive hypercarbia is consistent with the absence of vagal-mediated inflation inhibition. 
Antral choanal polyp presenting as obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) in children is commonly caused by adenotonsillar hypertrophy. The diagnostic criteria of OSAS in children are not so well delineated as in adults. We report the first case of antral choanal polyp presenting as OSAS in a 10-year-old boy that initially presented to the child psychiatry service for behavior disturbance, enuresis, and daytime somnolence. Overnight electroencephalogram sleep study revealed events consistent with OSAS. Multiple inhalant allergies, chronic maxillary sinusitis, and obstructive adenoid hypertrophy were diagnosed by the allergy and otolaryngology services. The child was scheduled for adenoidectomy when his sleep apnea symptoms persisted following antimicrobial therapy. Examination under anesthesia revealed a normal adenoid bed and a large left antral choanal polyp. Polypectomy was performed as dictated by parental consent. Postoperatively treatment with an intranasal steroid was begun. However, polypoid nasal mucosa recurred in 2 months and a Caldwell-Luc procedure was performed. Subjective reports following surgery indicated improvement in daytime irritability, attention, and mood. A follow-up overnight electroencephalogram sleep study confirmed resolution of OSAS. 
Hepatitis C virus infection and chronic liver disease in children with leukemia in long-term remission. Antibody to the recently identified hepatitis C virus (HCV) was investigated in sera of 50 leukemic children who had chronic liver disease (CLD), observed for 1 to 12.6 years after therapy withdrawal. All patients were tested for anti-HCV at regular intervals: Ortho-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test was performed in all cases. Reactive sera were also tested by recombinant immunoblotting assay to define the specificity of the results obtained by ELISA. Twelve cases (24%) were persistently positive (group A), 11 (22%) were transiently anti-HCV+ positive (group B), and 27 (54%) were negative. Mean SGPT peak during follow-up was significantly higher in group A (P = .014, A v B and P less than .00001, A v C). SGPT normalized off-therapy in 1 of 12 cases (group A), 10 of 11 (group B), and 19 of 27 (group C) (P = .0004, A v B and P = .012, A v C). Accordingly, liver histology, available in 37 patients, showed signs of chronic hepatitis in all patients in group A while most patients in group B and C had less severe liver lesions. These results indicate that HCV plays a significant role in the etiology of chronic hepatitis in leukemic patients and that persistent anti-HCV activity correlates with a more severe CLD, which could jeopardize the final prognosis of children cured of leukemia. 
Fatty infiltration in the liver in medium chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Fatty infiltration of the liver at postmortem examination has been recommended as a criterion for selection of infants who have died suddenly and unexpectedly for further biochemical investigation for disorders of fatty acid oxidation. We describe a boy with medium chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency who died four months after diagnosis and in whom only minimal hepatic fatty infiltration was found. 
Nuclear DNA content, tumor cell aggregation, and metastatic events in patients with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach. Data on 100 patients who had undergone resection for poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach with serosal invasion were examined to assess the prognostic significance of the DNA distribution pattern in relation to the histologic tumor cell aggregation pattern. DNA distribution patterns were classified into low and high ploidies and tumor cell aggregation patterns were classified into free-cell, small nest, and large nest types. The rates of high ploidy in the free-cell, small nest, and large nest types were 23.1%, 48.0%, and 66.7%, respectively, with a significant increase according to the degree of aggregation. The high ploidy group and large nest type had a higher incidence of lymphogenous and hematogenous metastasis than the low ploidy group and free-cell type, respectively. DNA ploidy had no prognostic value for the free-cell type of tumor, but differences in prognosis and the incidence of metastasis between the DNA ploidies were evident in the nest-forming type. Aneuploid tumors consisting of a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma were those with nest formation, from the standpoint of histologic structure and metastatic behavior. The DNA analysis of poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas was of prognostic value, especially in the nest-forming type. 
Radio-immunoassay detection of interferon-gamma in urine after intravesical Evans BCG therapy Our previous studies suggested that interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) was produced in the local immune response to intravesical BCG. To confirm this we modified a commercially available radio-immunoassay for detection of this lymphokine in urine. The urinary levels of IFN gamma were compared in serial urine samples taken from six patients undergoing treatment with Evans strain BCG and seven patients receiving intravesical mitomycin C/epirubicin. IFN gamma was detected consistently in response to BCG with levels reaching a peak (mean 67.1 U/ml., range 7.9 to 155.9 U/ml.) four to six hours post-instillation whereas after other intravesical agents no IFN gamma was detectable after seven of 13 instillations. After the remaining six instillations lower levels were detected (mean 7.4 U/ml., range 0.6 to 22.4 U/ml.). The difference in peak levels between the two groups was statistically significant (p less than 0.001 Mann Whitney U test). These results are further evidence of specific cellular immune activity in response to intravesical BCG therapy and suggest anti-tumour mechanisms similar to allograft rejection and autoimmunity. 
Asymptomatic bacterascites: is it spontaneous bacterial peritonitis? Asymptomatic bacterascites is defined as the presence of bacteria in ascitic fluid without clinical features of peritonitis or increased ascitic fluid polymorphonuclear cells. Asymptomatic bacterascites is a controversial entity, and little information is available regarding its spontaneous evolution. Clinical features, bacteriological data and outcome in 22 cirrhotic patients with asymptomatic bacterascites are reported and are compared with those of a group of 36 cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Eleven patients had gram-negative bacteria and 11 had one gram-positive bacteria. Only in three patients (13.6%) did peritonitis develop. Twelve patients received no antibiotic therapy, and in none did peritonitis develop. At 1 month, 27% of patients with asymptomatic bacterascites had died. Patients with asymptomatic bacterascites had less-severe liver disease; they more frequently had gram-positive bacteria in ascitic fluid and had a lower 1-mo mortality rate than did patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. We conclude that asymptomatic bacterascites is usually the transient residence of bacteria in ascitic fluid. Peritonitis rarely develops in patients with asymptomatic bacterascites and, in most of them, antibiotic therapy is not required. 
A randomized comparison of intravenous heparin with oral aspirin and dipyridamole 24 hours after recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute myocardial infarction. National Heart Foundation of Australia Coronary Thrombolysis Group. BACKGROUND. This study addressed the need for heparin administration to be continued for more than 24 hours after coronary thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA). METHODS AND RESULTS. A total of 241 patients with acute myocardial infarction were treated with 100 mg rt-PA and a bolus of 5,000 units i.v. heparin followed by 1,000 units/hr i.v. heparin for 24 hours. At 24 hours, 202 patients were randomized to continue intravenous heparin therapy (n = 99) in full dosage or to discontinue heparin therapy and begin an oral antiplatelet regimen of aspirin (300 mg/day) and dipyridamole (300 mg/day) (n = 103). On prospective recording, there were no differences in the pattern of chest pain, reinfarction, or bleeding complications. Coronary angiography on cardiac catheterization at 7-10 days showed no differences in patency of the infarct-related artery. The proportion of patients with total occlusion (TIMI grade 0-1) of the infarct-related artery was 18.9% in the heparin group and 19.8% in the aspirin and dipyridamole group. In the patients with an incompletely occluded infarct-related artery, the lumen was reduced by 69 +/- 2% of normal in the heparin group and 67 +/- 2% in the aspirin and dipyridamole group. Left ventricular function assessed on cardiac catheterization and radionuclide study at day 2 and at 1 month showed no differences between the two groups. Left ventricular ejection fraction on radionuclide ventriculography at 1 month was 52.4 +/- 1.2% in the heparin group and 51.9 +/- 1.2% in the aspirin and dipyridamole group. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that heparin therapy can be discontinued 24 hours after rt-PA therapy and replaced with an oral antiplatelet regimen without any adverse effects on chest pain, reinfarction, coronary patency, or left ventricular function. 
Permanent urethral stents for detrusor sphincter dyssynergia. A series of 22 patients, most of whom had spinal injuries with detrusor sphincter dyssynergia, have had Medinvent Wallstents placed across the distal mechanism. All but 8 patients had undergone outflow surgery and 11 had had repeated unsuccessful sphincterotomies. The proximal end of the stent was placed over the verumontanum unless fertility was contemplated, when it was placed immediately below the verumontanum. Fifteen patients achieved complete voiding after placement of the first stent; 3 developed bladder neck obstruction after stenting, but in 1 of these cases resolution occurred after bladder neck incision. The 3 patients with artificial urinary sphincters failed to improve after stenting. Use of the urethral stent for patients with detrusor sphincter dyssynergia and failed sphincterotomy is a major advance. It should probably be the primary treatment in selected cases. Its effect on fertility is currently under assessment. 
Type I human T cell leukemia virus tax protein transforms rat fibroblasts through the cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element binding protein/activating transcription factor pathway. The Tax oncoprotein of the type I human T cell leukemia virus (HTLV-I) activates transcription of cellular and viral genes through at least two different transcription factor pathways. Tax activates transcription of the c-fos proto-oncogene by a mechanism that appears to involve members of the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and activating transcription factor (ATF) family of DNA-binding proteins. Tax also induces the nuclear expression of the NF-kappa B family of rel oncogene-related enhancer-binding proteins. We have investigated the potential role of these CREB/ATF and NF-kappa B/Rel transcription factors in Tax-mediated transformation by analyzing the oncogenic potential of Tax mutants that functionally segregate these two pathways of transactivation. Rat fibroblasts (Rat2) stably expressing either the wild-type Tax protein or a Tax mutant selectively deficient in the ability to induce NF-kappa B/Rel demonstrated marked changes in morphology and growth characteristics including the ability to form tumors in athymic mice. In contrast, Rat2 cells stably expressing a Tax mutant selectively deficient in the ability to activate transcription through CREB/ATF demonstrated no detectable changes in morphology or growth characteristics. These results suggest that transcriptional activation through the CREB/ATF pathway may play an important role in Tax-mediated cellular transformation. 
Drainage of a pancreatic pseudocyst: an unusual complication. A 34-year-old white woman had external drainage of a pancreatic pseudocyst. During sinography, contrast medium filled perigastric varices, causing septic shock. From this experience, we believe that although sinograms are helpful, they should be preceded by prophylactic administration of antibiotics and that contrast material should be sterile. The drainage catheter should be removed as soon as possible. 
Pulmonary dysfunction in advanced liver disease: frequent occurrence of an abnormal diffusing capacity. PURPOSE: Abnormalities in pulmonary function have been reported in association with chronic liver disease of varied etiology. The aim of this study was to better define the frequency and nature of these abnormalities in patients who were being evaluated for liver transplantation. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a battery of pulmonary function tests and chest radiographs in 116 consecutive patients (50 men, 66 women; aged 19 to 70 years, mean 44.6 years) with severe advanced liver disease who were hospitalized specifically for evaluation for possible orthotopic liver transplantation and were able to perform technically satisfactory tests. In 17 patients, quantitative whole-body technetium-99m macroaggregated albumin perfusion scanning was also performed for assessment of possible right-to-left shunting through intrapulmonary vascular dilatations. RESULTS: The most commonly affected test of lung function was the single-breath diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO), which was abnormal in 48%, 45%, and 71% of patients who never smoked, former smokers, and current smokers, respectively. Ventilatory restriction was noted in 25% of all patients, airflow obstruction (reduced ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital capacity) in only 3%, and a widened alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient in 45%. Diffusion impairment was accompanied by a restrictive defect in only 35% of the patients and by an abnormally widened alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient in 60%. When diffusion impairment was accompanied by an oxygenation defect, it was also associated with a significantly increased right-to-left shunt fraction (mean 24.9%) assessed from quantitative whole-body perfusion imaging. On the other hand, isolated diffusion impairment unaccompanied by significant hypoxemia (noted in approximately a third of the patients with a reduced DLCO) was not associated with evidence of significant intrapulmonary shunting (mean right-to-left shunt fraction 6.7%). CONCLUSIONS: Most patients with advanced liver disease have one or more types of abnormality in lung function, a reduced DLCO being the single most common functional defect. Mechanisms accounting for the abnormality in gas transfer may include intrapulmonary vascular dilatations, diffuse interstitial lung disease, pulmonary vaso-occlusive disease, and/or ventilation-perfusion imbalance. 
Comparison of a single layer continuous hand-sewn method and circular stapling in 580 oesophageal anastomoses. A total of 611 patients with carcinoma of the oesophagus or gastric cardia were operated on between July 1982 and December 1989. Resection was performed in 491 patients (one-stage, 483; two-stage, eight), bypass operation in 97, and 23 had exploration alone. The anastomoses of 580 patients with one-stage resection and bypass operations were evaluated. Hand-sewn anastomosis using a single layer of continuous absorbable monofilament suture was performed in 304 patients (221 resections and 83 bypasses). A stapled anastomosis was performed on 276 patients (262 resections and 14 bypasses). Following resection, there were 11 (5 per cent) anastomotic leaks in the hand-sewn group and ten (3.8 per cent) in the stapled anastomosis group (P = 0.69). Excluding anastomotic leaks, hospital mortality and anastomotic recurrence, stricture occurred in 18 of 172 hand-sewn anastomoses (10.5 per cent) and in 57 of 195 stapled anastomoses (29.2 per cent) (P less than 0.001). In patients who had bypass operations there were 12 anastomotic leaks, ten in the hand-sewn group (12.0 per cent) and two in the stapled anastomosis group (14.3 per cent). Only two of the discharged patients with bypass developed anastomotic strictures, a low incidence probably because of short survival. In addition, there were 245 subsidiary anastomoses made in the abdomen by the hand-sewn method as part of the reconstructive procedure, and there was one leak. The results of this non-randomized study suggest that hand-sewn anastomosis using a single layer continuous technique for the oesophagus is as safe as the use of circular staplers; hand-sewn anastomosis is less likely to become stenotic. 
Depression and chronic fatigue in cancer patients. Fatigue is a very common symptom among cancer patients. It is crucial to diagnose those patients for whom the fatigue is a symptom of depression, and to treat them appropriately. The key to providing complete and satisfying care is to identify and address the psychologic, social, and medical vulnerabilities of each cancer patient. No one is in a better position to accomplish that than the primary physician. 
Azathioprine induced liver disease: nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver and perivenous fibrosis in a patient treated for multiple sclerosis. Azathioprine hepatotoxicity has been described mainly in renal transplant recipients. Most reported cases are related to lesions of the venous system of the liver: peliosis hepatis, veno-occlusive disease of the liver, perisinusoidal fibrosis, and nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver. The most common clinical manifestation of these hepatic vascular lesions is portal hypertension. We present a case of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and perivenous fibrosis in a patient receiving azathioprine for multiple sclerosis. Histological abnormalities were similar to those described in renal transplant patients, and azathioprine was the only potential hepatotoxic agent present. 
The immunogenicity and safety of intradermal hepatitis B vaccine. BACKGROUND. One of the chief barriers to a greater use of hepatitis B vaccine is the high cost of the vaccine itself. A number of small research trials have shown that an adequate immune response can be induced at a much lower cost by administering one tenth of the vaccine using an intradermal technique. The purpose of this study was to ascertain whether these results could be replicated in a larger clinical trial. METHODS. Vaccine recipients included health care providers, police officers, and firefighters. Recipients were given 0.1 mL of plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine intradermally on days 1, 30, and 180. Antibody response was measured on day 210, with seroconversion defined as a sample-to-negative (S/N) ratio of greater than or equal to 10. Any local and systemic side effects were documented. RESULTS. Six hundred sixteen individuals completed the vaccination series, and seroconversion occurred in 534 (86.7%). The rate of seroconversion in those younger than 40 years was 91.2% and in those 40 years and older was 75.1%. The mean S/N ratio was 154.9 (range 0 to 620) and decreased with increasing age (r = -.25, P = .0001). Side effects were largely limited to local reactions. CONCLUSIONS. The results support the use of the intradermal technique as a cost-effective alternative to the intramuscular route in individuals younger than 40 years. The intradermal technique may be used in older individuals if titers are obtained to assure seroconversion. Because of the restricted availability of the plasma-derived vaccine used in this study, similar trials with recombinant vaccine should be undertaken. 
Temporal changes in the occurrence of hemorrhoids in the United States and England. Although numerous etiologic risk factors have been proposed, the pathogenesis of hemorrhoids remains unknown. The present investigation assesses the temporal distribution of hemorrhoids as depicted by physician visits, hospital discharges, and surgical procedures to provide further insight into potential etiologic risk factors. The analysis was based on five data sources: from the United States, the National Disease and Therapeutic Index (NDTI), the National Hospital Discharge Survey (NHDS), and the Commission on Professional Hospital Activities (CPHA); from England and Wales, the Morbidity Statistics from General Practice (MSGP) and the Hospital In-patient Enquiry (HIPE). Results demonstrated a consistent decline in all data sources from the United States. The decrease occurred in males and females similarly and was most striking in those aged 45-64 years. Physician visits and hospital discharges for hemorrhoids in England and Wales likewise declined although the decrease was not as dramatic. The consistency of the temporal distributions among the two countries, as well as among the different sources, suggests that the observed decline may, in fact, reflect an overall decrease in the occurrence of hemorrhoidal disease. 
Aortoiliac surgery in renal transplant patients. Fifteen patients who had undergone renal transplantation 3 months to 25 years earlier were operated on for treatment of complicated aortoiliac atherosclerosis; eight had aneurysms and seven had stenotic or obstructive lesions. Except for the first patient, operated on in 1973, in whom the kidney was protected by general hypothermia, no special measure was used to protect the kidneys. A transient increase in creatinemia occurred in 11 patients during the postoperative period, whereas creatinine values remained unchanged in the other four. All patients had regained renal function identical to the + preoperative state in less than 10 days; three of them had significant improvement as a result of correction of a lesion that was impairing renal blood flow. Results obtained in this series show that protection of the transplant during aortic surgery is not necessary, provided an adequate surgical technique is used. This technique avoids the complex methods employed in the majority of previously reported cases and appears to be a safe procedure. 
Experimental arterial thrombosis in nonhuman primates. The baboon offers many advantages as an experimental animal to study vascular disease, thrombus formation and dissolution, effects of mediating variables, and the relative efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Each specific application for testing therapeutic agents may require testing in somewhat different model systems. For example, although the arteriovenous vascular graft model is efficient, cost effective, and well adapted to study of interventions for acute arterial thrombosis, surgical endarterectomy extends the evaluation to include interactions with the injured vascular wall. As the antithrombotic products of genetic engineering and molecular biology emerge, it will be increasingly important to have relevant, reproducible, and quantitative approaches to evaluate their effects in vivo. 
Cloning and in vitro expression of a melanoma-associated antigen immunogenic in patients with melanoma. The purpose of this study was to identify human melanoma-associated Ag (MAA) that are immunogenic in patients, because these molecules may be useful immunogens to implement active specific immunotherapy. To this end, an expression cDNA library constructed from the human melanoma cell line A375 was screened with sera from patients with melanoma. A 1029-bp cDNA (designated D-1) was isolated. Its nucleotide sequence showed no significant homology with viral and mammalian sequences stored in GE-NETYX. cDNA D-1 hybridized to a 2.0-kb mRNA species from human melanoma, neuroblastoma, erythroleukemia, B lymphoid, and T lymphoid cell lines but not from a renal carcinoma cell line, PBL, and cultured skin fibroblasts. The D-1 clone produced a fusion protein that displayed a significantly higher reactivity with sera from patients with melanoma than from healthy controls. Furthermore, D-1 fusion protein induced in mice antibodies that immunoprecipitated a 50-kDa component from cultured human melanoma cells. The structural properties of D-1 MAA are different from those of previously described MAA. These results suggest that the approach we have applied may be useful to identify novel MAA expressed by melanoma cells. Furthermore, the immunogenicity of recombinant D-1 protein suggests that it may be a valuable immunogen to implement active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma, if additional experiments show that it has the appropriate tissue distribution. 
A randomized clinical trial to compare two different approaches in women with chronic pelvic pain. One hundred six patients with chronic pelvic pain were randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups. In the standard-approach group, organic causes of pelvic pain were excluded first and diagnostic laparoscopy was routinely performed. If no somatic cause could be found, attention was given to other causes such as psychological disturbances. In the second group an integrated approach was chosen. From the beginning equal attention was devoted to somatic, psychological, dietary, environmental, and physiotherapeutic factors. In this group, laparoscopy was not routinely performed. Both groups were similar with respect to clinical characteristics of the patients and the severity of their pain as assessed by various pain parameters. Postcoital pain was reported by 27% of the patients. Twenty percent of the patients had had negative sexual experiences such as childhood sexual abuse or rape. Evaluation of the pain 1 year after the institution of treatment revealed that the integrated approach improved pelvic pain significantly more often than the standard approach for three out of four pain parameters (P less than .01). Laparoscopy played no important role in the treatment of pelvic pain. It is concluded that equal attention to both organic and other causative factors from the beginning of therapy is more likely to result in a reduction of pelvic pain than is a standard approach. 
Multivessel coronary artery disease: a key predictor of short-term prognosis after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) Study Group. Results of recent studies have suggested that routine cardiac catheterization may be unnecessary after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Therefore to better define the short-term prognostic value of early coronary angiography, and specifically the prognostic significance of multivessel coronary artery disease, the angiographic findings of 855 patients consecutively enrolled in five phases of the TAMI study were correlated with their in-hospital outcome. All patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy (tissue plasminogen activator, urokinase, or both agents) and underwent cardiac catheterization within 90 minutes of the initiation of therapy. Multivessel disease, defined as the presence of greater than or equal to 75% luminal diameter stenosis in two or more major epicardial arteries, was documented in 236 patients. When compared with the group of patients without multivessel disease, this group had a higher prevalence of coronary risk factors and more frequently had a history of antecedent ischemic chest pain. Although the severity of the infarct zone dysfunction was similar in the two groups (-2.77 +/- 1.00 vs -2.50 +/- 1.09 SD/chord, p = NS), global left ventricular ejection fraction was lower in the group with multivessel disease (48.6 +/- 12.4% vs 51.8 +/- 10.6%, p less than 0.01). This was associated with a significant difference in the function of the noninfarct zone. Whereas this region was hyperkinetic in the group with minimal or single-vessel disease, it was hypocontractile or dyskinetic in those with multivessel disease (+0.66 +/- 1.53 vs -0.52 +/- 1.73 SD/chord, p = 0.0001). 
Impact of magnetic resonance imaging on the management of diabetic foot infections. This combined retrospective/prospective study evaluated the value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 18 diabetic patients with apparent foot infections. The goal was to define the impact of MRI on directing the expedient and accurate surgical intervention so important in achieving optimal preservation of limb tissue and function. We found that MRI provides a rapid and reliable means of "viewing" the diabetic foot. Unsuspected or poorly localized abscess cavities can be pinpointed for thorough drainage with minimal exploration. An abscess can be differentiated from cellulitis or osteomyelitis. Moreover, persistent fever following drainage of a foot abscess can be reliably evaluated via MRI, obviating the need for empiric surgical reexploration. This exciting noninvasive imaging technique leads to the most accurate surgical drainage of foot abscesses and, at the same time, can prevent unnecessary surgical exploration of the tenuous diabetic foot. 
Regulation of gene expression in renal compensatory growth. Compensatory renal hypertrophy is characterized by an increase in cell protein content. There are a number of different cellular mechanisms by which such an increase could be mediated. The relative contributions of transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression to the increase in constitutively expressed cellular proteins were examined in mouse kidneys undergoing compensatory growth following unilateral nephrectomy (UNI-NX). Over the 14-day study period, total protein per kidney increased by up to 37%. Northern blot analysis of the expression of the mRNAs for a number of genes associated with cell growth indicated that there was no significant increase in steady-state levels of these selected genes in nephrectomized compared with sham-operated animals. In vitro assays to measure transcriptional regulation of the same set of genes in compensatory growth showed no increase in the rate of transcription. However, transcription of the 18S ribosomal RNA gene was increased 24 hours after nephrectomy. Immunoblots of two representative proteins showed that the concentration of these proteins in total kidney protein remained constant in the different experimental groups. Since total protein increased, the concentration of these proteins in the hypertrophied kidney must have increased. Taken together, these data suggest that posttranscriptional mechanisms may account for the increase in at least some constitutively expressed proteins in cells undergoing compensatory growth. 
Concurrent hydralazine administration prevents nitroglycerin-induced hemodynamic tolerance in experimental heart failure. BACKGROUND. Organic nitrates such as nitroglycerin and isosorbide dinitrate are useful in the treatment of congestive heart failure (CHF), but tolerance develops rapidly during continuous administration. Because combination therapy of nitrate and hydralazine has been shown to provide both short- and long-term benefit but nitrate alone produces hemodynamic tolerance, we questioned whether hydralazine can preserve the favorable preload effects of nitroglycerin. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using an in vivo model of nitroglycerin tolerance in the CHF rat, we examined the effects of hydralazine bolus dosing during continuous nitroglycerin infusion. Continuous infusion of nitroglycerin alone (10 micrograms/min) produced initial reductions in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 40-50%, which returned to baseline by 8 hours (tolerance development). Coadministration of hydralazine (2 x 0.1 mg) maintained the effects of nitroglycerin infusion on left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (45% reduction at 10 hours). This hydralazine dose alone reduced left ventricular peak systolic pressure by approximately 12 +/- 3% but had no effect on left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Hydralazine dosing did not affect steady-state plasma concentrations of nitroglycerin or metabolites, and hydralazine was unable to prevent nitroglycerin tolerance induced in vitro. CONCLUSIONS. The beneficial interaction of hydralazine on the preload effects of nitroglycerin may explain the long-term clinical efficacy of hydralazine/nitrate combination in CHF. Our results also suggest that the mechanism of in vivo nitrate tolerance in CHF may be systemic rather than vascular in origin. 
Clonidine inhibits vesico-sphincter reflexes in patients with chronic spinal lesions. When administered systemically to spinalized animals, clonidine, the prototypic alpha 2 adrenergic receptor agonist, purportedly acts at spinal sites to suppress motor responses related to painful peripheral and vesical stimulation and spasticity, and to improve vesicourethral coordination. Hence, the action of clonidine (400 micrograms in three divided doses in a 16-hour span) on spinal vesical and somatic reflexes was examined in five patients with suprasacral spinal cord lesions by assessing volume-induced micturition reflexes and limb motor discharges that occurred spontaneously or were elicited by noxious and nonnoxious cutaneous stimulation. Clonidine caused a significant reduction in (1) blood pressure, (2) amplitude of detrusor contraction, and (3) vesical external urethral sphincter dyssynergia. Limb motor electromyography discharges were not markedly attenuated, although spatiotemporal changes (eg, irradiation, after-discharges) were observed in some of the patients. The results are ascribed to binding to spinal cord alpha 2 adrenergic receptors located on segmental and intersegmental (propriospinal) interneurons, released from descending inhibition, with greater motor system specificity on striated sphincter innervation. Clonidine may be clinically effective in the treatment of hyperactive micturition reflexes in patients with chronic spinal lesions. 
The effect of caffeine on postprandial hypotension in the elderly In a double-blind, randomized trial the effects of caffeinated and decaffeinated drinks on postprandial hemodynamic and neurohumoral changes were studied in seven fit, elderly subjects after a standard 2.4MJ meal. There was a significant difference in supine postprandial systolic blood pressure between the placebo and caffeine phases (P less than 0.01); at 60 minutes, supine systolic blood pressure had fallen 14 mmHg [95% confidence interval (CI)-7 to-21 mmHg, p less than 0.01) after placebo, but was unchanged after caffeine (+9 mmHg, CI 0 to 18 mmHg, NS]. Similar differences between placebo and caffeine were seen in erect systolic and diastolic blood pressure (P less than 0.01), although orthostatic tolerance was maintained throughout each study period. Postprandial plasma noradrenaline levels were higher (P less than 0.02) and the increase greater (P less than 0.02) after caffeine than after placebo. Caffeine administered at the end of a standard test meal prevents the postprandial fall in blood pressure in fit, elderly subjects. The clinical relevance of this finding has yet to be determined, but it may offer a simple remedy for patients with symptomatic postprandial hypotension. 
Advances in the understanding and treatment of urinary tract infections in young women. Despite relative ease of management, the high rate of urinary tract infections (UTI) among young women presents substantial problems for the health care community. Although the majority of UTIs in young women are simple and uncomplicated, the rate of recurrence is substantial. Each treatment of UTI recurrence brings greater antibiotic resistance, requiring the use of broader spectrum and more expensive antibiotic therapy. Moreover, infection in patients with underlying urinary tract or systemic diseases can lead to serious medical and financial consequences. A better understanding of antibiotic resistance, particularly in regard to beta-lactamase-producing pathogens, has allowed us to develop more appropriate criteria for selecting antibiotics as well as the duration of therapy. The overall cost for treating UTIs in young women is a substantial health care expenditure, and requires an ongoing examination of new information concerning pathogenesis and available antibiotic therapies. 
Staged repair of interrupted aortic arch and ventricular septal defect in infancy. Staged repair of interrupted aortic arch and ventricular septal defect was carried out in 20 infants from 1979 through 1990. Among the important associated cardiac defects were transposition of the great arteries, truncus arteriosus, and anomalous origin of the right pulmonary artery. The first stage, usually consisting of the placement of an 8- or 10-mm polytetrafluoroethylene graft, pulmonary artery banding, and ligation of the patent ductus arteriosus, resulted in 20 survivors (100%) There were two interim deaths (10%) before the second stage of ventricular septal defect closure and pulmonary artery band removal, which had 15 survivors (83%, 15/18). Because the major morbidity and mortality early in this experience could be traced to leaving the pulmonary artery band on too long, early removal (within 2 to 3 months) was begun. Since 1985, 8 (100%) of 8 infants have survived both stages and are now doing well. Because of the relatively large polytetrafluoroethylene graft, only 1 child (aged 9 years) has experienced substantial late aortic arch obstruction and undergone placement of an 18-mm Dacron graft without difficulty. Of interest is the finding that in only 1 (5%) of the 20 patients has major (greater than or equal to 40-mm Hg gradient) left ventricular outflow tract obstruction developed. In summary, the staged repair of interrupted aortic arch with ventricular septal defect has become very reliable despite the condition of the infant or major associated cardiac anomalies and can be recommended for infants at high risk for primary repair. More long-term information will be needed to determine which approach will be the best choice for the majority of infants. 
Colorectal cancer patients with high risk of hematogenous metastasis: correlation with CEA levels in peripheral and draining venous blood during the period of operation. Correlations between carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels of peripheral (p) and draining (d) venous blood during the period of operation, and pre- and post-operatively detected hematogenous metastases were examined in 78 patients with colorectal cancer. The metastases were found in 28 patients (HM group), but not found in the other 50 patients (non-HM group). The mean values (43 and 198 ng/ml) and positive rates (61 and 96%) greater than 5 ng/ml of p- and d-CEA levels in the HM group were significantly higher than those (6 and 14 ng/ml, and 22 and 48%, respectively) in the non-HM group. The differences (mean 184 ng/ml and positive rate 49%) of d-CEA levels between both groups were more significant than those (39 ng/ml and 30%) of p-CEA levels. The mean value (155 ng/ml) and positive rate (82%) greater than 5 ng/ml of the gradient between d- and p-CEA levels (d-p CEA gradient) in the HM group were significantly higher than those (8 ng/ml and 34%) in the non-HM group. These results suggest that patients with a high risk of hematogenous metastases are more effectively checked by the determination of d-CEA levels and d-p CEA gradient than of p-CEA levels, and that they are patients with positive d-CEA and d-p CEA gradient levels. 
Contemporary management of neurofibromatosis. The neurofibromatoses are two distinct entities with different genetic origins. The phenotypic expressions and required treatments are different. The devastating nature of neurofibromatosis-2 may be more effectively controlled through the application of advanced imaging techniques and contemporary neurotologic procedures. The most common manifestation of neurofibromatosis-2 is that of bilateral acoustic neuromas. The eventual total bilateral sensorineural deafness associated with this condition can be obviated in selected cases if the diagnosis is established early. Follow-up data are reported for three patients in whom hearing was preserved in at least one ear. When removal with hearing preservation is not possible, subtotal tumor removal with decompression of the internal auditory canals may delay progression of hearing loss. A new approach to tumors of the pterygomaxillary fossa that have extended to the middle cranial fossa has been successfully applied and is described. 
The effects of chronic endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy on portal pressure in cirrhotics. The effect of obliterating esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy on portal pressure was prospectively studied in 11 cirrhotic patients with variceal hemorrhage. Portal venous pressure gradient, determined as the difference between transhepatic portal and hepatic vein pressure, increased by a mean of 31.1% +/- 14.5% in 8 (73%) and decreased by a mean of 30.1% +/- 11.7% in 3 (27%) patients, with no statistically significant change overall (P = 0.1). These changes in portal venous pressure gradient occurred despite an improvement in the laboratory and clinical parameters of hepatic function. Deep abdominal sonography with color flow imaging at variceal obliteration showed patent paraumbilical veins in 6 (55%) patients, 3 of whom had decreases in portal venous pressure gradient (29%, 19%, 42.5%) at variceal obliteration. In 5 (45%) patients without patent paraumbilical veins, a statistically significant increase in portal venous pressure gradient between initial endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy and variceal obliteration was noted (P = 0.008). Rebleeding (single episode in all 4 patients, before obliteration in 3 patients) occurred in those with an increase in portal venous pressure gradient; all patients with portal venous pressure gradient decreases were nonbleeders. No correlation between changes in portal venous pressure gradient and time to variceal obliteration, number of sclerotherapy treatments, or rebleeding episodes was observed. Thus, an increase in portal venous pressure gradient was noted in the majority of patients at variceal obliteration. Although the portal venous pressure gradient decrease may be explained by a patent paraumbilical vein, the mechanism of portal venous pressure gradient increase is not clear. It is speculated that this portal venous pressure gradient increase may be caused by an increase in collateral resistance or flow or a combination of both, resulting from obliteration of esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy. 
Role of emergency medical services. For thrombolytic therapy to be effective in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, the patient must enter the health care center delivery system in an efficient manner. Some entry delays are due to patient decisions and interactions with others. In the United States, prehospital care is delivered by a variety of different systems, varying from public service types such as fire-department based to private types of service. These personnel vary in level of training from paramedics with a high level of training to Emergency Medical Technicians-Ambulance with basic training (first aid), even less in some areas. The training should be upgraded so that training as an emergency medical technician with the ability to defibrillate would be the minimum level for emergency ambulance personnel; wherever economically and logistically feasible, ambulance personnel should be paramedics. Although the 911 emergency telephone system exists in some areas, there is no centralized, universal system for access, causing confusion and delays in obtaining care in critical situations such as cardiac arrest. There is a need for a national emergency number--911--with the ability to identify the calling number and address. Since dispatchers have little medical dispatch training, needed instructions are not given to the caller, which can reduce the patient's chance of survival. Trained dispatchers are needed to dispatch resources efficiently and to offer assistance until trained rescuers arrive. Ambulances are inefficiently located in some areas of the United States, slowing response to the patient. 
Effort thrombosis of the axillosubclavian vein: a disabling vascular disorder. In the natural history of this disorder, resumption of normal activity after a period of recuperation (following an episode of thrombosis) frequently leads to symptoms of upper extremity venous hypertension exacerbated by using the arms in the overhead position. This position can be demonstrated venographically to further occlude collateral vessels in thoracic outlet. A number of patients develop more extensive symptoms of neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome. Anticoagulation may protect the collateral vessels and interrupt the period of active clot propagation resulting in a better functional result than would be expected from the natural history of the thrombotic event. In our experience, local Urokinase was the most effective means for reestablishing venous patency. With clot dissolution the underlying compression of the vein at the thoracic outlet can be demonstrated. Balloon angioplasty should not be undertaken in the acute setting nor prior to relieving the tendinous compression. The acute phlebitic process should resolve under the protection of Coumadin for three months. At that time it can be determined more effectively which patients require additional therapy. Removal of the first rib will decompress the axillosubclavian vein and the thoracic outlet collaterals permitting the vein to regain its normal configuration particularly in younger patients with more acute onset of compression. In those patients with more chronic compression the vein becomes stenotic. Improvement of the luminal configuration has been accomplished with transvenous balloon angioplasty without the necessity for venous reconstructive procedures in this series. Patients with Paget-Schroetter syndrome have a symptom complex which often reflects more extensive neurovascular compression at the thoracic outlet than that which might result from venous hypertension alone. Although thrombolytic therapy can restore patency of the axillosubclavian vein, first rib resection is necessary to relieve the external compression. This procedure was very effective in patients who had restoration of subclavian vein patency, and to a lesser degree in those with residual occlusion. 
Paul Broca and the first craniotomy based on cerebral localization. Paul Broca (1824-1880) was a well-known French surgeon-anthropologist-neurologist. Best known for his work on cerebral cortical localization and speech mechanisms, Broca also carefully worked out skull and scalp localization for underlying cortical regions. In 1871, Broca treated a man who had sustained a scalp laceration from a blow to the head without loss of consciousness or skull fracture. The patient exhibited a nonfluent aphasia about 1 month after injury and became progressively obtunded and eventually comatose. Suspecting an intracranial abscess, Broca trephined at the region of the left third frontal convolution and drained an epidural abscess. The patient improved transiently but died a few days later. Autopsy showed a left-sided, predominantly frontal purulent meningoencephalitis. Broca's other neurosurgical contributions included various surgical cases, methods for scalp localization of the cerebral convolutions, extensive studies of skull and brain abnormalities, thermoencephalography, and the stimulation of younger surgical colleagues and neurologists to make practical use of cerebral localization. 
HLA class I antigen expression as a measure of response to antiviral therapy of chronic hepatitis B. HLA class I antigen expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells was evaluated by flow cytometry in 21 HBeAg-positive patients with chronic hepatitis B. Measurements were made before, during or after treatment with recombinant interferon-alpha-2b, either given alone or after a 6 wk course of prednisone. Immunohistochemical staining for human leukocyte class I antigen was also evaluated in 28 percutaneous liver biopsy specimens either obtained before or after therapy (N = 27) and during therapy in one instance. The amount of HLA class I antigen on peripheral blood mononuclear cells varied markedly among individual patients, but the overall results indicated that the level of inducible antigen did not correlate with increments of ALT during therapy or with a virological response to therapy. Hepatocyte staining for HLA class I antigen was observed in a minority of biopsy specimens (29%) and also did not appear to predict a response or correlate with the severity of histological disease. These data do not support current theories concerning pathogenetic mechanisms in chronic hepatitis B nor do they suggest that spontaneous display of HLA class I antigen on hepatocytes or interferon-induced expression of these antigens on peripheral blood mononuclear cells is a critical determinant for a response to therapy. 
Dispersion of ventricular repolarization in the long QT syndrome. To identify markers of dispersion of the ventricular repolarization in the idiopathic long QT syndrome, body surface potential maps were analyzed in 40 such patients (mean age +/- standard deviation 21 +/- 11 years) and in 30 healthy control subjects (mean age 24 +/- 7 years). In each subject, 117 chest leads were recorded and maps of the integral values of the QRST interval were calculated. A multipolar distribution of the values, a marker of gross electrical inequalities of repolarization, was found only in 4 patients. To detect minor regional disparities of ventricular recovery, all the ST-T waveforms were analyzed in each subject. The ST-T waves were represented by a discrete series of potential values. The "similarity index" was computed by applying a principal component analysis, which represents (in percent) to what extent 1 fundamental pattern of ST-T reproduces all the recorded waveforms. The mean value of the similarity index was significantly lower in patients with long QT syndrome than in control subjects (49 +/- 10 vs 77 +/- 8%, p less than 0.0001). A value less than 61% (corresponding to 2 standard deviations below the mean value for controls) was found in 35 of 40 patients and in only 1 control subject (sensitivity 87%, specificity 96%). Thus, the similarity index is a more sensitive marker than the multipolar distribution of QRST integral maps in revealing electrical disparities of the ventricular recovery times. 
Spatial misregistration of vascular flow during MR imaging of the CNS: cause and clinical significance. Spatial misregistration of signal recovered from flowing spins within vascular structures is a common phenomenon seen in MR imaging of the CNS. The condition is displayed as a bright line or dot offset from the true anatomic location of the lumen of the imaged vessel. Its origin is the time delay between application of the phase- and frequency-encoding gradients used to locate spins within the plane of section. The principal condition necessary for the production of spatial misregistration is flow oblique to the axis of the phase-encoding gradient. Flow-related enhancement (entry slice phenomenon), even-echo rephasing, and gradient-moment nulling contribute to the production of the bright signal of spatial misregistration. Familiarity with the typical appearance of flow-dependent spatial misregistration permits confirmation of a vessel's patency; identification of the direction of flow; estimation of the velocity of flow; and differentiation of this flow artifact from atheromas, dissection, intraluminal clot, and artifacts such as chemical shift. 
Trends in the operative management of invasive squamous carcinoma of the vulva at Indiana University, 1974 to 1988. From January 1974 to March 1988, 150 patients with primary invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva underwent surgery at Indiana University. There has been a trend toward more conservative surgical management of this disease. To determine the impact of this trend on clinical outcome, cases were divided into three groups according to date of operation: group I, 1974 to 1978; group II, 1979 to 1983; and group III, 1984 to 1988. Overall, 80 patients had en bloc radical vulvectomy and groin dissection, 20 had modified radical vulvectomy and bilateral groin dissection through three separate incisions, and 36 had modified radical vulvectomy and unilateral superficial groin dissection. Fourteen patients had other operations. Forty-two patients (27.3%) had radiotherapy in addition to surgery. Among the three groups, there were no differences when mean age, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage distribution (1988 system), mean lesion size, mean depth of invasion, or grade distribution were compared. A significant trend toward more conservative surgical therapy was observed. En bloc radical vulvectomy was performed in 77.4% of group I patients, 71.1% of group II patients, and 35.8% of group III patients (p less than 0.001). Mean days of hospitalization were also reduced significantly. Group I had a mean stay of 30 days, group II had a mean stay of 23 days, and group III had a mean stay of 11 days (p less than 0.001). Mean operative blood loss (group I, 754.8 ml; group II, 620.0 ml; group III, 393.6 ml; p = 0.03), mean units of blood transfused (group I, 1.4 units; group II, 1.3 units; group III, 0.4 units; p less than 0.01), and mean hours of operating time (group I, 3.7 hours; group II, 3.7 hours; group III, 3.2 hours; p = 0.02) were also reduced. 
Detubularisation in cystoplasty: clinical review. Cystoplasty using a detubularised bowel segment is preferable to using a tubularised length of intestine. This has been shown experimentally to result in a reduction in the contractility of the neobladder, although contractions are not completely abolished. Incontinence, especially nocturnal, may still be a problem. Assessment of renal function has shown a marked incidence of upper tract dysfunction despite detubularisation. All patients remain at risk of upper tract obstruction following cystoplasty. Because bowel contraction waves are brought on by distension, it may be possible either to postpone or to prevent the onset of contractions by avoiding an excessive build-up of bladder volume. Clean intermittent self-catheterisation is an efficient means of emptying the bladder, although sphincter rebalancing may also be required. 
Altered gallbladder contractility after extracorporeal shock-wave cholecystolithotripsy. Change in gallbladder contractility after biliary extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) may significantly influence the clearance of fragments after successful gallstone fragmentation. We assessed changes in gallbladder contractility in response to an oral fatty meal in 50 patients 1 month after biliary ESWL (all fragments were smaller than 3 mm) and also in a separate group of 10 patients 3 months after complete clearance of fragments. The prevalence of persistent lumen-obliterating contraction of the gallbladder after biliary ESWL also was analyzed in 325 patients. Gallbladder contractility remained unchanged in 30, increased in nine, and decreased in 11 of the 50 patients. The average reduction in the fasting gallbladder volume after lithotripsy was 28% (p less than .001). Gallbladder contractility remained unchanged 3 months after complete clearance of fragments in six of 10 patients studied separately. A decrease (n = 2) or increase (n = 2) in contractility was seen in the remaining patients. No significant difference occurred in the average ejection fraction of the gallbladder before lithotripsy and after complete clearance of the fragments. Thirty-four of the 325 patients who have so far undergone biliary ESWL had a completely contracted gallbladder with no lumen visible on sonography. The gallbladder returned to a relaxed state in half of these patients within 1-9 months. Thus, biliary ESWL did not significantly alter gallbladder contractility in 60% of patients. A significant reduction in the volume of the fasting gallbladder occurred after lithotripsy. Successful clearance of fragments did not improve the contractility of stonebearing gallbladders in the majority of patients. 
The modified transcochlear approach to the cerebellopontine angle. We have modified the transcochlear approach to improve exposure of the anterior petrous apex, clivus, anterior cerebellopontine angle, and the prepontine region. These changes include resection of the external auditory canal, middle ear, glenoid fossa, and posterior zygomatic arch. This approach provides improved exposure of the petrous carotid artery, jugular bulb, and clivus. It offers the largest and most lateral access to the anterior cerebellopontine and prepontine region. The results of this approach in 11 patients are discussed. 
Comparison of catheter ablation using radiofrequency versus direct current energy: biophysical, electrophysiologic and pathologic observations. The effects of catheter ablation with radiofrequency versus direct current energy were compared in 18 dogs assigned to two groups (of 9 dogs each). Each dog underwent a single ablation at two sites in the left ventricle at energy levels of 100, 200 or 300 J delivered in unipolar configuration to six dogs each. A transient decrease in left ventricular systolic pressure (from 121.3 +/- 24.5 to 94.2 +/- 18.7 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and wall motion abnormality were noted in dogs with direct current shock. The left ventricular ejection fraction decreased (from 50 +/- 2% to 34 +/- 3%, p less than 0.001) shortly after direct current ablation but improved 4 weeks later to 43 +/- 3%. There were no significant changes in left ventricular pressure, wall motion or ejection fraction in dogs in the radiofrequency ablation group. Sustained ventricular tachycardia (greater than or equal to 30 s) was seen immediately after direct current shock in all dogs, and one dog died of intractable ventricular fibrillation. A 24-h ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitor obtained immediately after the procedure showed multiple runs of ventricular tachycardia in all dogs exposed to direct current ablation but in only three dogs that underwent radiofrequency ablation. No differences were found in peak creatine kinase, complete blood count with smear and B-beta 15-42 fibrinopeptide levels. Pathologically, direct current-induced lesions were larger (mean length x width x depth 10.9 x 7.5 x 5.2 vs. 4.8 x 4.6 x 4.3 mm) and were poorly circumscribed with inhomogeneous margins of necrosis. 
The influence of intraoperative hypotension and perioperative blood transfusion on disease-free survival in patients with complete resection of colorectal liver metastases. An increased interest in surgical treatment of liver metastases from colorectal origin has evolved recently. However not all patients benefit from this approach, with early recurrence and death still being encountered. To evaluate clinical as well as perioperative factors that might significantly affect the outcome of patients with completely resected colorectal liver metastases, we examined 116 patients who underwent resection between September 1987 and August 1989. Median follow-up time was 13.2 months (0.6 to 31.4 months). The overall survival rate was 91% at 1 year and 75% at 2 years. Median survival was not reached. Median disease-free survival time was 11.5 months, with 49.4% and 21.2% of the patients being free of disease at 1 and 2 years, respectively. By univariate analysis, site of primary colorectal cancer, preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level, size of metastases, number of metastases, length of operation time, percentage mean arterial pressure, number of hypotensive episodes, duration of hypotensive episodes, and whole blood transfusion significantly affected recurrence rate following resection. However only site of primary tumor, CEA, number of metastases, and number of hypotensive episodes remained significant in the multivariate analysis. The most significant single factor that affected recurrence rate was the number of hypotensive episodes during the operative procedure. It is concluded that hypotensive episodes, even when well controlled, should be avoided during operation to maximize the chances of cure and prolong disease-free survival of patients with colorectal liver metastases. 
Failure of physicians to recognize acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in chronic alcoholics. We encountered six alcoholic patients with severe acetaminophen hepatotoxicity during a 2-year period. All patients had marked elevations of aminotransferases and sometimes remarkably high prothrombin times at, or shortly after, presentation. In five of six cases the diagnosis was missed by the physicians initially caring for the patient. The apparent reasons for the missed diagnosis were insufficient history regarding the use of acetaminophen, an inappropriate reliance on blood acetaminophen levels, and lack of knowledge regarding typical aminotransferase elevations in alcoholic hepatitis vs acetaminophen toxicity. The initial clinical presentation of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in chronic alcoholics is easily recognized clinically and is distinct from acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in suicide ingestions and from alcoholic hepatitis. Internists and other physicians should be aware of this entity and rely on the clinical picture and the history of acetaminophen use to confirm the diagnosis. 
An alternative explanation for the genesis of closed-lock symptoms in the internal derangement process. Clinical and surgical data on 194 operated joints (135 patients) were used to substantiate a new concept challenging the presumed natural history of temporomandibular internal derangement (ID). A number of findings were incompatible with the traditional depiction of a progressive process based on gradual changes in disc position and shape. These findings were a lack or correlation between increasing age and the stages of the process; the percentage of patients in the third stage (closed lock) with limited opening (less than 25 mm) too severe to be caused solely by a nonreducible, displaced disc; the unexpectedly high incidence (greater than 50%) of normally shaped discs in the third stage of the process. A specific condition of severe and stubborn limited maximal mouth opening caused by total cessation of gliding, liable to occur at any age and unrelated to disc shape or position, which responds successfully to simple treatment by lavage and lysis, pressured injection, or arthrocentesis, was discerned. Lack of gliding was attributed to adherence of the disc to the fossa by a reversible effect such as a vacuum and/or decreased volume of synovial fluid of high viscosity. This condition was deemed worthy of an independent identity, dissociated from disc displacement, as a causative factor in the second and third stages of ID, and particularly as an aid to accurate diagnosis and treatment. 
Intracanalicular acoustic neurinomas. The cases of 16 patients with acoustic neurinomas confined to the intracanalicular area are presented. These represent 2.7% of the 600 patients with acoustic neurinomas consecutively operated upon at the Neurosurgical Clinic at Nordstadt Hospital during the last 8 years. The comparatively earlier onset of vestibular symptoms and signs was characteristic of this group and precipitated diagnosis. The diagnostic reliability of magnetic resonance imaging was at least equivalent to that of air computed tomographic cisternography. Complete tumor removal was accomplished via the suboccipital approach in all patients, with 100% preservation of facial nerve and facial function; the cochlear nerve was preserved anatomically in 100% of the patients and functionally in 57%. No recurrence has occurred during follow-up periods of up to 8 years in all 16 patients. A broad spectrum of the current literature is considered, and purely intracanalicular acoustic neurinomas are discussed with regard to clinical characteristics, diagnostic steps-including neuroradiological and neurophysiological approaches-and surgical treatment and results. 
Acute gall bladder perforation--a dilemma in early diagnosis. Gall bladder perforation is a rare complication of cholecystitis. A definitive diagnosis is uncommon before surgery and the morbidity and mortality associated with this condition are high. We report six patients with gall bladder perforation to show the difficulty of making an early diagnosis. The history and the clinical findings of these patients are reviewed to highlight diagnostic pitfalls. 
Genital human papillomavirus infection in men. Diagnosis and treatment with a laser and 5-fluorouracil. One hundred twenty-eight consecutive men, sexual partners (for more than six months) of women treated for genital condylomata acuminata, were evaluated with colposcopy to assess the percentage of infected men among the couples. Ninety-three (73%) of the men were found to have a genital human papillomavirus infection on colposcopically directed biopsies. All but one patient were treated with outpatient colposcopically guided laser vaporization under local anesthesia (one patient with extensive condylomata required general anesthesia). Two weeks after laser surgery, 5% 5-fluorouracil cream, used in the genital area, was initiated on a weekly basis for two months and every other week for two more months. Patients were followed in the clinic with colposcopy performed every eight weeks for six months to evaluate the regimen's results. Thirty-seven (40%) of the 93 men had "clinically" apparent genital HPV infection, and 56 (60%) of the 93 had "subclinical" disease (as determined with colposcopy). The majority of the patients (87 of 93, or 94%) responded to one laser treatment followed by 5-fluorouracil cream and had no visible lesions at six months. Colposcopic evaluation of the male partners of infected women and laser surgery followed by topical 5-fluorouracil therapy appear to be safe and effective in controlling genital HPV infection. 
3DFT MR angiography of the carotid bifurcation: potential and limitations as a screening examination. The authors compared the three-dimensional Fourier transform (3DFT) time-of-flight magnetic resonance (MR) angiograms in 38 patients initially studied with selective intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for suspected arteriosclerotic disease of the carotid bifurcation. MR angiograms were successfully obtained in 65 of the 75 carotid arteries (87%) visualized with DSA. DSA and MR angiographic studies were assessed for percentage area stenosis by two independent observers on two occasions. Statistical tests indicated consistency in interpretation for each observer as well as between observers. No significant difference was found between the two modalities in ability to depict changes in percentage area stenosis. For the 32 right carotid arteries in the comparison, the median for the difference between MR angiography and intraarterial DSA was 1.83% (range, -22.38% to 55.60%); for the 33 visualized left carotid arteries, it was 0.00% (range, -20.55% to 49.95%). Receiver operating characteristic analysis indicated that technically adequate MR angiography may be a sensitive screening examination for stenoses. 
Pericardial haemorrhage causing right atrial compression after cardiac surgery: role of transoesophageal echocardiography. After cardiac surgery transoesophageal echocardiography showed a large thrombus compressing the right atrium in three hypotensive patients. No satisfactory images were obtained by transthoracic imaging, which is often difficult in ventilated patients after cardiac surgery. Transoesophageal echocardiography, however, provided rapid diagnostic information and permitted prompt surgical intervention. 
Plasmapheresis in a case of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome with ascending polyneuropathy. Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome complicated by ascending polyneuropathy in a 40-year-old woman is described. High-dose intravenous steroids had no beneficial effect on the clinical course. Dramatic and rapid clinical improvement occurred with the use of plasmapheresis. The use of this therapeutic modality should be considered in patients with a similar clinical presentation. 
The interpretation of dysprosody in patients with Parkinson's disease. Prosodic features in the speech production of 21 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease were tested. The appreciation of vocal and facial expression was also examined in the same patients. Significant intergroup differences were found in the prosody production tasks but, in contrast to previous results, not in the receptive tasks on the recognition and appreciation of prosody and of facial expression. The discrepancy between the production and recognition of prosodic features does not support the suggestion that dysprosody in Parkinson's disease is necessarily a disorder of processing emotional information that could be misinterpreted as a dysarthria. 
Phase I/II trial of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Forty-seven patients with hematologic neoplasia received recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) by daily 2-hour infusion following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from HLA-identical sibling donors in a phase I-II dose-escalation trial. Dose levels ranged from 30 to 500 micrograms/m2/d. At doses at or below 250 micrograms/m2/d, toxicity felt to be caused by rhGM-CSF was negligible. However, three of five patients treated with 500 micrograms/m2/d had unacceptable side effects caused by rhGM-CSF. Two different graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylactic regimens were administered. Twenty-seven evaluable patients were administered regimens that did not contain methotrexate (MTX) (Group I) and reached an absolute neutrophil count of 1,000/microL by a median of day 14. In contrast, 18 patients who received GVHD prophylactic regimens containing MTX (Group II) reached an absolute neutrophil count of 1,000/microL on a median of day 20. Patients in Group I had fewer febrile days and, of those discharged, had shorter initial hospitalizations than patients in Group II. The overall incidence of severe acute GVHD (grade 2 or greater) in the rhGM-CSF-treated patients was 28% and was similar to that in historical "good risk" patients who did not receive rhGM-CSF. These preliminary data suggest rhGM-CSF is unlikely to exacerbate GVHD in HLA-identical sibling donor transplants and indicate the need for randomized trials of rhGM-CSF in allogeneic marrow transplant patients. 
Rhabdomyolysis in children: a 3-year retrospective study. The case reports of 4 pediatric patients illustrate the complex clinical scenarios in which childhood rhabdomyolysis/myoglobinuria occurs. Children ranged in age from 8-18 years. Presumed etiologies of rhabdomyolysis/myoglobinuria included Neisseria sepsis, exertion-related episodes, dialysis disequilibrium, and diabetic ketoacidosis. No child developed respiratory or renal failure. all children were discharged with normal muscle power, indicating the benign nature of this disease and the importance of aggressive management. 
Renal artery stenosis: preliminary results of treatment with the Strecker stent. Use of the Strecker flexible balloon-expandable tantalum stent for treatment of renal artery stenosis after failed angioplasty or transaortic thromboendarterectomy was evaluated in 10 patients (nine hypertensive, one normotensive). Left (n = 3) and right (n = 5) renal arteries were involved; renal artery stenosis in two patients had developed after kidney transplantation. Indications for stent placement were inadequate immediate postangioplasty response (n = 7), development of considerable restenosis after angioplasty (n = 1), and obstructing intimal flaps following transaortic endarterectomy (n = 2). Stent placement was technically successful (less than 20% residual stenosis) and patency was preserved in eight patients. Of the seven hypertensive patients with successful implantation, two were cured, three had improvement, and two had no change at latest follow-up evaluation (mean, 10.6 months; range, 6-12 months). The Strecker stent may be helpful in treating restenosis after failed revascularization procedures, although the precise indication, true safety, and long-term efficacy of stent placement in renal arteries will not be known until trials with more subjects and longer follow-up periods are completed. 
Rest-injected thallium-201 imaging for assessing viability of severe asynergic regions. To evaluate the utility of rest-injected 201Tl initial and delayed images for assessing the viability of severe asynergic regions, we studied 17 patients with apparently prior infarcted myocardium in combination with 99mTc ventriculography before and after revascularization. In 51 regions with severe asynergy, the percent 201Tl uptake was calculated as the ratio of counts on the segment with asynergy to the maximum counts on the normal segment. Eleven of 14 regions with resting 201Tl redistribution (Group 1) had improved wall motion after revascularization. However, 14 of 37 regions without redistribution also improved (Group 2). Twenty-three regions without redistribution or improved wall motion after revascularization (Group 3) had lower regional 201Tl uptake on their delayed images than those in Groups 1 and 2. Moreover, the initial regional uptake of Group 2 was higher than that of Group 3. These results suggest that redistribution on rest-injected 201Tl scans indicates reversibility of severely asynergic myocardium and that high 201Tl uptake in regions without redistribution may predict improvement in wall motion after revascularization. We conclude that 201Tl uptake may be useful as a marker of viability of severe asynergic regions before revascularization. 
Failure of ursodeoxycholic acid to prevent a cholestatic episode in a patient with benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis: a study of bile acid metabolism. Ursodeoxycholic acid was administered to a patient with benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis to prevent cholestatic episodes. A detailed study of bile acid metabolism in this patient was carried out in the anicteric and icteric phases before and after ursodeoxycholic acid (750 mg/day) administration. Urinary, biliary and serum bile acids were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and by high-performance liquid chromatography techniques. During the anicteric phase the daily urinary excretion and serum concentrations of bile acids were within normal ranges, indicating normal hepatic uptake and secretion of bile acids during the cholestasis-free period. Only slight qualitative differences from normal individuals were observed; the relative proportions of deoxycholic acid in the bile and serum were higher, and 12-oxo-lithocholic acid was the predominant urinary bile acid. During the icteric phase a marked increase in the urinary excretion of primary bile acids and C-1, C-2, C-4 and C-6 hydroxylated metabolites was found. Serum bile acid concentrations increased before the rise in bilirubin, suggesting an acute disturbance in bile acid transport at the onset of the cholestatic attack. After ursodeoxycholic acid administration in the anicteric phase, bile became enriched with the exogenous bile acid, but little qualitative change was found in the other metabolites present in the urine, serum or bile during the anicteric or icteric phases. Prolonged administration of ursodeoxycholic acid failed to prevent recurrence of a cholestatic episode, suggesting that in benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis, oral ursodeoxycholic acid may be of little benefit in the treatment or prevention of cholestasis despite marked enrichment of the bile acid pool with this hydrophilic bile acid. 
Physical and emotional stress associated with components of the infertility investigation: perspectives of professionals and patients. OBJECTIVE: The present study examined patients', nurses', and physicians' perceptions of the physical and emotional difficulty of infertility treatment. DESIGN: A mail survey method was used. PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Participants included 26 patients, 76 nurses, and 71 physicians from infertility clinics in the United States and Canada. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: A rating scale measured the physical and emotional difficulty level of 36 components from the infertility investigation. RESULTS: Nurses rated the emotional and physical distress of patients higher than did patients and physicians, whereas patients rated their distress higher than did physicians. Older nurses and physicians inferred lower levels of physical and emotional distress than did their younger counterparts. A greater breadth of experience with infertility treatments was associated with higher ratings of emotional distress by nurses and lower ratings by physicians. CONCLUSIONS: Patients, nurses, and physicians perceive infertility treatment from unique vantage points creating differences in perceptions that have implications for patient care. Factors including era of professional training, stage of life, and changes resulting from advancing technology are viewed as influencing health care professionals' perceptions of infertility distress. 
Renal hemodynamics and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in normotensive subjects with hypertensive and normotensive parents. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. The kidney is important in blood-pressure regulation, but its role in the development of essential hypertension is still subject to debate. We compared renal hemodynamics, measured in terms of the clearance of para-aminohippuric acid and inulin, and the characteristics of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in three groups of normotensive subjects at different degrees of risk for hypertension: 41 subjects with two normotensive parents, 52 with one normotensive and one hypertensive parent, and 61 with two hypertensive parents. The subjects ranged in age from 7 to 32 years. RESULTS. The mean renal blood flow was lower in the subjects with two hypertensive parents than in those with two normotensive parents (mean difference [+/- SE], 198 +/- 61 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 of body-surface area; P = 0.002). Moreover, both the filtration fraction and renal vascular resistance were higher in the subjects with two hypertensive parents (filtration fraction: mean difference, 3.0 +/- 1.1 percentage points; P = 0.006; renal vascular resistance: mean difference, 2.7 +/- 0.8 mm Hg per deciliter per minute per 1.73 m2; P = 0.006). The subjects with two hypertensive parents had lower plasma concentrations of renin (mean difference, 3.3 +/- 1.6 mU per liter; P = 0.03) and aldosterone (mean difference, 111 +/- 36 pmol per liter; P = 0.003) than those with two normotensive parents. The differences could not be explained by the small differences in blood pressure between the groups. The values in the subjects with one hypertensive and one normotensive parent fell between those for the other two groups. CONCLUSIONS. Renal vasoconstriction is increased and renin and aldosterone secretion is decreased in young persons at risk for hypertension. These findings support the hypothesis that alterations in renal hemodynamics occur at an early stage in the development of familial hypertension. 
Acute pulmonary embolism in pediatric patients awaiting heart transplantation. Acute pulmonary embolism with infarction can delay urgently needed heart transplantation and increase the postoperative pulmonary complications. Few data are available concerning pulmonary embolization in the pediatric patient with end-stage congestive heart failure. Sixty-two consecutive pediatric patients awaiting heart transplantation were monitored for evidence of acute pulmonary embolism. Acute pulmonary infarction was documented by ventilation-perfusion scan, pulmonary angiography or pathologic examination in six patients. The prevalence differed by diagnosis; 5 of 36 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and 1 of 20 patients with congenital heart disease developed acute pulmonary embolism with infarction. No significant difference in age at the time of transplantation evaluation, duration of congestive heart failure, presence of cardiac arrhythmias or degree of cardiac dysfunction was seen between patients with and without pulmonary embolism. Two-dimensional echocardiography failed to detect the presence of an intracardiac thrombus in four of the six patients. Two patients who developed acute pulmonary infarction are alive after successful heart transplantation. The remaining four patients died within 6 weeks of initiation of anticoagulant therapy before transplantation could safely be performed. In summary, pediatric patients with end-stage congestive heart failure are at risk for acute pulmonary embolism. No specific clinical factor identified those patients who developed acute pulmonary infarction. Anticoagulant therapy is strongly recommended in the pediatric patient with poor ventricular function awaiting heart transplantation. 
The role of chronic viral hepatitis in hepatocellular carcinoma in the United States. Although hepatocellular carcinoma is a relatively uncommon tumor in the United States, it is quite common in sub-Saharan Africa and the Far East, where most cases are associated with infection with the hepatitis B virus. We have studied 99 American patients with hepatocellular carcinoma for evidence of hepatitis B or hepatitis C viral infection and compared these findings to those in a group of matched controls with other cancers. The two groups differed in proportion, with hepatitis B surface antigen in serum being significantly higher in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (7% vs. 0%, p = 0.009). Antibody to hepatitis C virus was also found more frequently in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (13% vs. 2%, p = 0.002). The relative risk for hepatocellular carcinoma in hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients was calculated to be 17.3 and for antibody to hepatitis C virus to be 7.3. The attributable fraction of cases related to the hepatitis B surface antigen carrier state was 6.7% and for patients infected with the hepatitis C virus was 11.4%. Approximately three quarters of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma did not have evidence of either hepatitis C or hepatitis B virus infection. These findings provide strong evidence that hepatitis C virus infection is associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma, and in the United States may even play a more important role than the hepatitis B virus. 
Compartment syndrome complicating prolonged use of the lithotomy position. Two patients with three postoperative calf compartment syndromes, which followed prolonged lithotomy positioning, will be presented. Potential physiologic mechanisms are described, and a review of current cases in literature are summated. 
Chest pain: an evaluation of the initial diagnosis made by 25 Flemish general practitioners. Twenty-five general practitioners collected information on 318 contacts of patients with a new episode of chest pain, discomfort or tightness. A list of complaints, signs and symptoms were checked, together with the initial diagnosis, made by the GP immediately after the physical examination. The initial diagnosis was compared to a follow-up diagnosis. The gain in certainty was also compared. The GP made a correct initial diagnosis in 82% of patients. In 8% there was a clinically important difference, and seven of 17 episodes of oesophageal disease were missed. For their initial diagnosis, the GP scored 74% certain, 20% uncertain and no diagnosis in 6%. For the final diagnosis, these figures were 88%, 8% and 4%. 
Effects of nonionic versus ionic contrast media on complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. To evaluate the effect of contrast agents on percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) complications, 913 patients undergoing 1,058 separate PTCA procedures were prospectively randomized to receive either nonionic iopamidol (Isovue-370) [n = 507 PTCA procedures] or ionic contrast media, meglumine sodium diatrizoate (Renografin-76) [n = 551 PTCA procedures]. Angioplasty operators, technicians, nurses and patients were blinded to the agent used. All patients were pretreated with 0.6 mg of atropine sulfate intravenously before any contrast injections. Hypotension (mean arterial pressure less than 65 mm Hg associated with contrast injections) occurred during 8.5% of PTCA procedures in which the patients were receiving iopamidol and during 9.5% of the procedures in which the patients were given diatrizoate (difference not significant). Bradycardia (heart rate of less than 40 beats/min associated with contrast injections) developed during 5.7% of procedures when patients were given iopamidol and during 5.1% of procedures when patients were given diatrizoate (difference not significant). The need for additional atropine or temporary pacing during the procedure was similar for patients given iopamidol and diatrizoate. The overall incidence of ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, or both, during the procedure occurred less frequently when iopamidol was used compared with diatrizoate (1 vs 2.5%, p = 0.045). These serious ventricular arrhythmias were attributable to contrast injections in 0.6% of the PTCA procedures when iopamidol was given and in 2.0% of the cases in which diatrizoate was the contrast agent (p = 0.09). Only 1 patient had an allergic reaction to the contrast agent, and this was in a patient who received iopamidol. 
Monocrotaline-induced angiogenesis. Differences in the bronchial and pulmonary vasculature. Vascular corrosion casting was used to search for angiogenesis in the blood vessels of the lungs of rats given monocrotaline. Animals treated with monocrotaline had new well-differentiated arteries and veins on their pleural surfaces. Animals not treated had no large vessel on their pleural surfaces. Animals receiving monocrotaline had capillaries around major arteries that were more dense, widened, and less tubular than normal. These capillaries occasionally occurred in sheets and had blind endings. The control animals had delicate, uniform, tubular capillaries. Alveolar capillaries in both groups showed no evidence of increase in size or number or change in shape. Light microscopy confirmed the finding of new vessels found with the casts. The finding of angiogenesis on the pleural surface and in the bronchovascular bundle, but not in the alveolar capillaries, suggests a basic difference in how these capillary beds respond to angiogenic stimuli. If alveolar capillaries are unable to undergo angiogenesis, concepts of lung development and tumor growth may be significantly altered. The lung may be a unique organ to study angiogenesis because of the different angiogenic potential of its two circulations. Study of these differences may lead to better understanding of inhibition of angiogenesis. 
Pancreaticobronchial fistula causing lung abscess: case report and brief discussion of the literature. A case report of a patient with an abscess of the lung caused by a pancreaticobronchial fistula is presented. The patient was treated by pulmonary resection and distal pancreatectomy-splenectomy. 
Valproate-induced coma with ketosis and carnitine insufficiency. We observed two patients who developed coma following administration of valproate in dosages of 32 to 40 mg/kg per day. Valproate levels were within the therapeutic range, and results of liver function studies were normal. Both patients had ketosis and adipic aciduria. Plasma free carnitine levels were decreased during coma and after recovery. One patient excreted ethylmalonic acid, butyrylcarnitine, and glutarylcarnitine during and after resolution of coma, suggesting a multiple acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenation defect. Low serum carnitine levels may predispose patients to development of altered consciousness when treated with valproate. 
The kissing balloon technique with two over-the-wire balloon catheters through a single 8-French guiding catheter. Some of the newer over-the-wire coronary angioplasty catheters have shaft sizes of 3.0 French (F) or less. The inner diameter of modern 8-F guiding catheters is large enough to accommodate two of such balloon catheters. We report a kissing balloon procedure with two over-the-wire catheters through a single 8-F guiding catheter. 
Autotransplantation of dispersed pancreatic islet tissue combined with total or near-total pancreatectomy for treatment of chronic pancreatitis. Chronic pancreatitis is difficult to treat in patients with a nondilated duct. Patients experiencing intractable pain unresponsive to or judged untreatable by lesser procedures must decide between total pancreatectomy and resultant diabetes or a continuation of their pancreatitis. From 1977 through 1990, 26 patients underwent extensive pancreatectomy and dispersed pancreatic islet tissue autotransplantation for treatment of chronic pancreatitis pain and prophylaxis of surgical diabetes. Of these 26 patients, total (Whipple) or near-total (greater than 95%) pancreatectomy was performed in 24 patients. Of these 24 patients, pain relief could be assessed in 21 patients at 5 to 155 months (mean, 5.7 years), and 19 patients (90%) reported partial or complete remission. Of the patients who underwent total or near-total pancreatectomy, islets were injected intraportally in 22 patients and into the renal subcapsule in two patients. The latter two patients have required insulin since surgery. Of the other 22, one patient died from a complication of the pancreatectomy. Nine of the 21 evaluable recipients of intraportal islet autografts were insulin independent for at least several months after surgery. Five patients are currently insulin independent at 6 years, 4 years, 1.5 years, 9 months, and 5 months after surgery. Of the other four patients, one patient died insulin independent at 6 years, and three patients required insulin beginning 8 to 18 months after surgery. Insulin independence correlated with the number of islets recovered, which in turn correlated inversely with the degree of pancreatic fibrosis. Of our four most recent patients, three patients had mildly to moderately fibrotic glands, and higher numbers of islets were obtained. After total (Whipple) pancreatectomy, these three patients are insulin independent. A liver biopsy was performed in one patient 8 months after total pancreatectomy and islet autotransplantation; numerous clusters of islet cells staining strongly for insulin and glucagon were detected within portal triads on both wedge and needle biopsy specimens. Morbidity related to the intraportal-dispersed pancreatic islet tissue transplantation was low (no disseminated intravascular coagulation, significant portal hypertension, or hepatic dysfunction). Islet autotransplantation can be an effective and safe adjunct to extensive pancreatic resection for those patients who risk surgical diabetes for relief of their chronic pancreatitis pain. 
Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator followed by heparin compared with heparin alone for refractory unstable angina pectoris. Patients with unstable angina pectoris who remain symptomatic despite medical treatment are at high risk of death and myocardial infarction. The incidence of refractory unstable angina was examined in a consecutive series of 103 patients who received conventional medical treatment with nitrates, beta blockers, calcium antagonists and aspirin. During 48 hours of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, 24 patients had greater than or equal to 1 anginal attack, 5 of whom had both painful and painless ischemic episodes. In these 24 patients with unstable angina refractory to conventional medical treatment, the short-term efficacy of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) followed by heparin was assessed and compared with heparin alone in a randomized double-blind trial. Recurrences of ischemic attacks during a 72-hour follow-up period were documented in 9 of the 12 patients given heparin alone. All patients experienced at least 1 symptomatic ischemic episode and 1 patient had both painful and painless ischemia. No patient given rt-PA plus heparin had either symptomatic or asymptomatic ischemic attacks during follow-up. Kaplan-Meier curves analysis demonstrated a significantly higher probability of being ischemia free in the group of patients treated with rt-PA followed by heparin than in the group treated with heparin alone (p less than 0.01). Quantitative coronary arteriography failed to reveal any significant changes of ischemia-related lesions before and after each treatment. This study demonstrates that the combination of rt-PA and heparin has a greater protective effect than heparin alone in treating recurrent ischemic episodes in patients with refractory unstable angina. 
Preoperative high-dose leucovorin/5-fluorouracil and radiation therapy for unresectable rectal cancer. Twenty patients with primary or recurrent unresectable rectal cancer limited to the pelvis were entered on a Phase I trial of preoperative pelvic radiation therapy (RT) (5040 cGy) and two cycles of combined high-dose leucovorin (LV) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), followed by surgery and ten cycles of postoperative LV/5-FU (sequential). Maximum tolerated doses (MTD) were determined for preoperative combined LV/5-FU and RT and for postoperative sequential LV/5-FU. 5-FU was escalated 50 mg/m2 while the LV remained constant at 200 mg/m2. The initial doses of 5-FU were combined LV/5-FU and RT (200 mg/m2) and sequential LV/5-FU (325 mg/m2). The median follow-up time was 14 months. The resectability rate was 89%, and the pathologic complete response rate was 21%. The MTD for combined LV/5-FU and RT was 300 mg/m2; therefore, the recommended dose of 5-FU is 250 mg/m2. The recommended dose of 5-FU for sequential LV/5-FU is 375 mg/m2. The dose-limiting toxicities in this trial were diarrhea, tenesmus, increased bowel movements, dysuria, and myelosuppression. For the six patients who received 5-FU at the recommended dose level, the median low counts were leukocyte count, 3.7/microliters (range, 2.4 to 4.9/microliters); hemoglobin, 9.0 g/dl (range, 8.2 to 11.9 g/dl); and platelet count (X1000), 146/microliters (range, 89 to 182/microliters). The incidence rate of any Grade 3 toxicity was 17% (diarrhea and frequent bowel movements). The recommended doses of 5-FU used in this protocol were well tolerated. Because there was a long delay before optimal doses of 5-FU could be delivered, the authors do not recommend that high-dose LV be used in conjunction with combined 5-FU and RT with the treatment regimen as currently designed. However, because the resectability and complete response rates were higher than those previously reported for preoperative RT alone, the authors are encouraged by the combined technique approach. New trials are currently being undertaken to determine if the use of a low-dose LV regimen is more tolerable. 
Siriraj stroke score and validation study to distinguish supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage from infarction. OBJECTIVES--To develop a simple, reliable, and safe diagnostic tool for acute stroke syndromes in a setting where computerised brain scanning was not readily available and to validate its accuracy with regard to pathological types of stroke. DESIGN--13 clinical variables that potentially might differentiate supratentorial cerebral haemorrhage from infarction were recorded and tested by multivariate analysis in a prospective study of 174 patients with acute stroke. In developing the Siriraj stroke score stepwise discriminant analysis of the variables was followed by a linear discriminant equation to differentiate between supratentorial haemorrhage and infarction. The score obtained was validated against scores in 206 other patients with stroke, computerised brain scans being used for definitive diagnosis. SETTING--Siriraj Hospital Medical School, Mahidol University, Bangkok. SUBJECTS--Prospective study: 174 consecutive patients with acute supratentorial stroke syndrome (not subarachnoid haemorrhage) admitted to Siriraj Hospital during 1984-5; validation study: 206 patients admitted to Siriraj Hospital or another hospital for supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage or infarction. RESULTS--The Siriraj stroke score was developed and calculated as (2.5 x level of consciousness) + (2 x vomiting) + (2 x headache) + (0.1 x diastolic blood pressure) - (3 x atheroma markers) - 12. A score above 1 indicates supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage, while a score below -1 indicates infarction. The score between 1 and -1 represents an equivocal result needing a computerised brain scan or probability curve to verify the diagnosis. In the validation study of the Siriraj stroke score the diagnostic sensitivities of the score for cerebral haemorrhage and cerebral infarction were 89.3% and 93.2% respectively, with an overall predictive accuracy of 90.3%. CONCLUSION--The Siriraj stroke score is widely accepted and applied in hospitals throughout Thailand as a simple and reliable bedside method for diagnosing acute stroke. 
Differential modulation by the stress axis of ethanol withdrawal seizure expression in WSP and WSR mice. Withdrawal from both acute and chronic ethanol (EtOH) exposure is associated with increased neural excitability and increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. There is some evidence that glucocorticoids are necessary for EtOH withdrawal seizure expression. Lines of mice that were selected for severe (WSP) and minimal (WSR) EtOH withdrawal (as estimated from handling-induced convulsion scores) have been shown to differ in their stress response following an acute dose of EtOH. In this study we provide evidence that these lines of mice also differ in their sensitivity to the excitatory effects of glucocorticoids. EtOH withdrawal seizures of WSP mice were significantly increased by chronic and acute corticosterone treatment, whereas those of the WSR mice were unaffected. Neural excitability was decreased in the WSP mice when aminoglutethimide, a glucocorticoid synthesis blocker, was administered. Thus, it appears that genetic differences in EtOH withdrawal seizure severity may be due, in part, to differences in sensitivity to the excitatory effects of glucocorticoids. 
Treatment of critically ill patients with sepsis of unknown cause: value of percutaneous cholecystostomy. Because of the difficulty in diagnosing acute cholecystitis in critically ill patients with severe intercurrent illness by clinical and imaging methods or percutaneous aspiration of the gallbladder, a trial of percutaneous cholecystostomy was performed in 24 patients in the intensive-care unit with persistent, unexplained sepsis after a complete clinical, laboratory, and radiologic search showed no alternative source of infection. Persistent high fevers, despite antibiotic therapy, were present in all patients, with elevated WBC count in 18 patients, vague abdominal tenderness in 11, and septic shock requiring vasopressors in 15. Sonographically, all patients had distended, spherical gallbladders, six had gallstones, eight had wall thickening, three had pericholecystic fluid, and four had Murphy's sign. All patients were seen by a senior abdominal surgeon, who agreed to a trial of percutaneous cholecystostomy. Fourteen patients (58%) responded to percutaneous cholecystostomy, as evidenced by a decrease in WBC count, defervescence, and the ability to be weaned off vasopressors. Bile cultures were positive in four patients. Ten patients (42%) did not respond to percutaneous cholecystostomy; five eventually died of unrelated causes. A respiratory source of infection was eventually found in three of these 10 patients, with no proved source of infection in the remainder. No complications related to catheter insertion occurred in this group of patients. Bile leaks occurred in two patients when the percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter was removed, but without serious consequence. Our experience suggests that a lower threshold for performing percutaneous cholecystostomy in this difficult clinical subset of patients is worthwhile. 
Impaired formation of the ternary insulin-like growth factor-binding protein complex in patients with hypoglycemia due to nonislet cell tumors. In some subjects with hypoglycemia associated with tumors of mesenchymal origin, high insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) levels have been described in serum and in the tumors. Tumor IGF-II of 10-15 kDa circulates in a 60-kDa complex, in contrast to the ternary 150-kDa complex in which serum IGFs normally circulate together with the IGF-binding subunit (IGFBP-3) and the acid-labile subunit (alpha-subunit). This study examines the molecular distribution and complex-forming activity of the components of the ternary complex in the serum of subjects with mesenchymal tumor hypoglycemia. Total serum IGFBP-3 levels were 60% of normal in tumor patients and appeared at 60 kDa on gel chromatography, shifting after tumor removal to 150 kDa. Total alpha-subunit levels were 40% of normal in patients with tumors, increasing after tumor removal to 70% of normal and changing in elution profile from a peak typical of uncomplexed alpha-subunit to the normal broad peak representing both complexed and uncomplexed alpha-subunit. Although low by RIA, alpha-subunit activity in a ternary complex formation assay was normal, indicating that the ability of free alpha-subunit in the patients' circulation to combine with exogenous IGFBP-3 plus IGF-I was not impaired. In contrast, in an assay that tested the ability of IGF-IGFBP complexes in the patients' circulation to combine with pure alpha-subunit, complex formation activity was 75-85% below normal in preoperative sera, despite low normal IGFBP-3 levels. Therefore, the cause of hypoglycemia in these patients may be the inability of complexes between the abnormal tumor IGF-II and IGFBP-3 to be sequestered in the biologically inactive ternary complex. 
The significance of portal vein thrombosis after distal splenorenal shunt. The aims of this study were to determine the incidence of portal vein thrombosis after the distal splenorenal shunt, to identify any predictive factors, and to assess the clinical significance of this complication. Preoperative and postoperative angiograms and clinical evaluation were reviewed in 124 patients who underwent distal splenorenal shunts. Total and partial portal vein thrombosis were seen on 13 (10.5%) and 22 (17.7%) postoperative angiograms, respectively. The only preoperative variable correlating with development of portal vein thrombosis was portal venous perfusion, which was significantly lower in patients with than in those without portal vein thrombosis. In six of 10 patients with postoperative pancreatitis, portal vein thrombosis developed. The frequency of early postoperative complications was significantly greater in patients with total portal vein thrombosis than in those with partial or no thrombosis. Long-term follow-up has shown no significant effects of portal vein thrombosis on late ascites, encephalopathy, or survival. 
Iatrogenic epidermoid cyst of the parotid region following ear surgery. Iatrogenic implantation of squamous epithelium may result in formation of an epidermoid cyst. These cysts have been described in various sites around the head and neck following otological procedures. A case of iatrogenic epidermal cyst in the parotid region following repeated myringoplasty is reported. The clinical features and differential diagnosis are discussed. 
Fatal and other major complications of endoscopic sinus surgery. Endoscopic sinus surgery has become an acceptable technique for the treatment of chronic sinus disease. This report analyzes five complications which came to my attention. Two cases were orbital:1 bilateral blindness due to damage of the optic nerves, and 1 damage of medial rectus muscle. The other 3 cases were intracranial:two cribriform plate damage with frontal lobe injury and hematoma, and 1 damage of the anterior cerebral artery, resulting in death. This rather novel technique, especially when used by less-experienced surgeons, has major complications similar to what has been reported with the traditional intranasal sphenoethmoidectomy. Knowledge of anatomy, good training, and meticulous surgical technique are very important. Endoscopic sinus surgery in patients with extensive pathology should be used with caution, especially if general anesthesia is selected or if excessive bleeding occurs. It would be beneficial to otolaryngologists to have previous experience in the traditional technique before adopting endoscopic sinus surgery to their armamentarium. Even then, major complications may occur in the hands of very experienced surgeons. Early recognition and proper management of these complications are of utmost importance in order to minimize disability or prevent death. 
Brachial plexus anesthesia for outpatient surgical procedures on an upper extremity We retrospectively reviewed 543 brachial plexus blocks performed on 526 outpatients. Most (98%) of the blocks were performed by means of the axillary approach. Various techniques were used, including paresthesia, transarterial fixation, nerve stimulation, or a combination of techniques; a high success rate was achieved with each of them. Only 7% of the blocks were incomplete and thus necessitated either general anesthesia or block supplementation with thiopental sodium and nitrous oxide. No persistent neurologic deficit was ascribed to the anesthetic technique. This review indicates that brachial plexus block, especially with use of the axillary approach, is a safe and effective option for outpatient surgical procedures on an upper extremity. 
Valproate-induced coma with ketosis and carnitine insufficiency. We observed two patients who developed coma following administration of valproate in dosages of 32 to 40 mg/kg per day. Valproate levels were within the therapeutic range, and results of liver function studies were normal. Both patients had ketosis and adipic aciduria. Plasma free carnitine levels were decreased during coma and after recovery. One patient excreted ethylmalonic acid, butyrylcarnitine, and glutarylcarnitine during and after resolution of coma, suggesting a multiple acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenation defect. Low serum carnitine levels may predispose patients to development of altered consciousness when treated with valproate. 
Flecainide acetate treatment of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: dose-response studies. The Flecainide Supraventricular Tachycardia Study Group. The dose-response relations for efficacy and tolerance of the antiarrhythmic drug flecainide acetate were studied in 28 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (Group 1) and 45 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter (Group 2). Recurrent symptomatic tachycardia was documented with use of transtelephonic electrocardiographic recording. Patients received flecainide in doses of 25, 50, 100 and 150 mg twice daily and placebo for 1 month treatment periods. Among 14 patients in Group 1 who qualified for efficacy analysis, 4 (29%) had no tachycardia while taking placebo. The number with no tachycardia increased with progressively larger flecainide doses; with the 150 mg twice daily dose, 12 (86%) of 14 patients had no tachycardia (p less than 0.01 for overall differences among all treatments). Among 28 patients in Group 2, 2 (7%) had no tachycardia while taking placebo. The number with no tachycardia also increased with progressively larger flecainide doses; with the 150 mg twice daily dose, 17 (61%) of 28 patients had no tachycardia (p less than 0.01 for overall differences among all treatments). Noncardiac adverse experiences were the leading cause of premature study discontinuation during flecainide treatment periods (five patients in Group 1 and six patients in Group 2). 
Effects of H1-antihistamine drug regimen on histamine release by nonlesional skin mast cells of patients with chronic urticaria. Profiles of compound 48/80-induced histamine release (HR) from mast cells of uninvolved skin from patients with chronic urticaria (CU) and from a normal control (NC) group were compared, and the effects of anti-H1 medications were assessed versus placebo. Then, patients with CU (15) and NC subjects (10) were randomly assigned to take either hydroxyzine (100 mg/day), terfenadine (120 mg/day), or placebo for 28 days. The effects of such treatment on the clinical response and on the profile of compound 48/80-induced HR during a 4-hour period were analyzed. Treatment with hydroxyzine in patients with CU improved the clinical symptoms and modified the profile of HR; more histamine was recovered at 1 hour (p less than 0.05) and 2 hours (p less than 0.05), as compared with baseline. Terfenadine and placebo had no effect on the clinical response or on the profiles of HR. In the NC group, the amounts of histamine recovered at 1 hour after challenge with compound 48/80 were lower than amounts of the pretherapy values (p less than 0.01). It could be concluded that (1) the profile of HR in patients with CU is reproducible during a period of 28 days, (2) only hydroxyzine modifies both the clinical response and the profile of HR, and (3) anti-H1 compounds decrease the HR in the NC group. 
Lysis of intraventricular hematoma with tissue plasminogen activator. Case report. A 42-year-old woman suffered a severe intracerebral and intraventricular hemorrhage from a ruptured anterior cerebral artery aneurysm. Evacuation of the frontal hematoma and clipping of the aneurysm was performed but the intraventricular blood clot persisted, causing ventricular dilatation and high intracranial pressure (ICP) 24 hours after surgery despite external ventricular drainage. Over this period of time the patient's clinical condition improved from Grade V to Grade IVb (World Federation of Neurological Surgeons classification). The intraventricular hematoma was lysed with a total of 8 mg recombinant tissue plasminogen activator injected directly into the ventricles on the 1st and 2nd postoperative days, resulting in rapid normalization of ventricular size and ICP. The patient has since made a substantial recovery and has been able to return home. 
Neurophysiological observations on the effects of botulinum toxin treatment in patients with dystonic blepharospasm. Botulinum toxin treatment improves dystonic blepharospasm by inducing transient paresis of the orbicularis oculi muscle. It is not known if it also reduces the enhanced brainstem neuronal excitability found in this disorder. We have performed conventional electromyography (EMG) and blink reflex excitability studies on fifteen patients with blepharospasm before and after botulinum toxin treatment. Denervation signs were found with needle EMG in all treated muscles. Amplitude of the facial compound muscle action potential (CMAP) and R1 response was reduced after botulinum toxin injections. In blink reflex excitability studies, the recovery of R2 response was enhanced after treatment even when patients were tested at the time of maximal benefit from botulinum toxin injections. The results suggest that there is little influence of botulinum toxin treatment upon the enhanced excitability of brainstem interneurons in patients with blepharospasm. 
Quadrilateral space syndrome: diagnosis and operative decompression technique. We present a series of five patients with quadrilateral space syndrome. All patients had the diagnosis made on the basis of (1) tenderness over the quadrilateral space, (2) paresthesia over the lateral shoulder and upper posterior arm, and (3) deltoid weakness associated with decreased shoulder abduction. A history of trauma was present in each patient. The operative technique described utilizes a cosmetically acceptable incision and is without the need to divide the deltoid from its origin on the scapular spine. The technique minimizes postoperative bleeding and facilities rehabilitation. Arteriography of the posterior circumflex humeral artery was not found necessary to make the diagnosis of axillary nerve entrapment in the quadrilateral space. 
Comparative efficacy and safety of intravenous and oral administration of a TRH analogue (RX77368) in motor neuron disease. Ten consecutive patients with motor neuron disease (MND) who had bulbar symptoms received one or two intravenous doses followed by increasing oral doses of a TRH analogue (RX77368). Similar improvements in speech, swallowing and in tongue and jaw movements were seen after iv and oral administration in nine, five and eight patients respectively. The initial time course of improvement correlated with increasing plasma levels of the drug, but most clinical effects persisted when the levels decreased and became undetectable after 24 hours. The oral solution was tasteless and had no, or minimal, side effects. 
Chagas' cardioneuropathy: effect of ganglioside treatment in chronic dysautonomic patients--a randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled study. To date, there is no effective pharmacologic treatment for Chagas' cardioneuropathy, one of the most common causes of congestive heart failure and sudden death in the world. Fifty-eight adults with positive serology for Chagas' disease and abnormal autonomic nervous system tests participated in this placebo-controlled clinical trial with Cronassial (mixed gangliosides), 40 mg daily intramuscular injection for 4 or 8 weeks. We measured postural response (heart rate, systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure changes in response to standing); heart rate changes induced by cough and hyperventilation reflex tests; dizziness on standing; number of stress-induced arrhythmias; and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive T-lymphocyte percentage in blood samples. Cronassial is safe and significantly improves systolic blood pressure (p = 0.050) and double product responses to postural stress (p = 0.028), hyperventilation heart rate response (p = 0.007), frequency of dizziness episodes (p less than 0.001), number of arrhythmias (p = 0.033), and percentage of PAS-positive T-lymphocyte counts (p less than 0.001) compared with placebo. 
Midline craniectomy for sagittal suture synostosis: comparative efficacy of two barriers to calvarial reclosure. This report quantitatively compares long-term head remolding achieved by two methods for retarding bone reunion after midline craniectomy for sagittal suture synostosis. In one group of six children the adjacent bone edges were overlayed with 1.0-cm-wide U-channel silicone strips, and in the other group, composed of seven patients, a considerably larger extent of the adjacent cranium was covered with silicone sheets. Mean percent change in the cephalic indices of the former group 18 months postoperatively was 9.1% +/- S.D. = 6.7, and of the latter group 23.7% +/- S.D. = 6.0 (p congruent to 0.01). These results indicate that the use of large silicone sheets lead to a significantly greater normalization of cranial proportions. 
Hiccups (singultus): review and approach to management. Hiccups are a common, and fortunately usually transient, benign malady. Occasionally, however, hiccups fail to resolve spontaneously, resulting in patient fatigue and incapacitation and the need for the affected individual to seek medical care for resolution of the problem. The approach to the management of these patients consists of the identification and treatment of serious underlying causes of the episode as well as therapeutic interventions to achieve hiccup resolution. 
The localization and distribution of corticotropin-releasing hormone in the human placenta and fetal membranes throughout gestation. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we have determined the localization and distribution of CRH immunoreactivity (CRH-IR) in the human placenta, fetal membranes, decidua, and umbilical cord. Tissues were obtained at 6-8 weeks of pregnancy, at term, in association with premature birth, and from patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension or diabetes mellitus. A polyclonal antibody to the epithelial cell marker cytokeratin was used to identify trophoblast cells. CRH-IR was not detected in placenta or decidua at 6-8 weeks gestation. In tissues obtained after idiopathic premature delivery after 21 weeks gestation, positive CRH staining was found in placenta in syncytiotrophoblast and intermediate trophoblast, but not cytotrophoblast. CRH-IR was present in intermediate trophoblast cells that had invaded maternal blood vessels in decidua basalis. In the fetal membranes, CRH-IR was localized in the epithelium and subepithelial cells of amnion, in the trophoblast layer, in some cells of the reticular and cellular layers of chorion, and in some stromal cells and invasive trophoblast cells of decidua. CRH-IR was found in the amniotic epithelium of the umbilical cord and in the musculature of the umbilical vessels. This pattern of distribution of CRH-IR was found in tissues from 21 weeks gestation to term and postterm, and was similar in tissues examined from patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension and diabetes mellitus. These results show clearly that in placenta and membranes, CRH is localized primarily to syncytiotrophoblast and intermediate trophoblast, but not to cytotrophoblast cells. We suggest that the localization of CRH-IR is consistent with CRH affecting paracrine/autocrine interactions within the placenta, fetal membranes, and decidua that may be involved in the maturation of the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and in the stimulus and maintainance of labor. 
The relationship among canine brain temperature, metabolism, and function during hypothermia. Cerebral protection by hypothermia is commonly attributed to cerebral metabolic suppression. However, at temperatures below 28 degrees C, the relationship of temperature to cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen consumption (CMRO2) has not been well characterized. Accordingly, the relationship between brain temperature and CMRO2 was determined in eight dogs during cooling from 37 to 14 degrees C while the EEG was continuously monitored. Cardiopulmonary bypass was initiated and control measurements were made at 37 degrees C during anesthesia with nitrous oxide 50-60% inspired and morphine sulfate 2 mg.kg-1 intravenously (iv). Upon cooling to 27 degrees C, the nitrous oxide was discontinued and the morphine was antagonized with naloxone 2 mg iv. Measurements were repeated at 27, 22, 18, and 14 degrees C and in four dogs again at 37 degrees C after nitrous oxide 50-60% had been reestablished at 27 degrees C along with administration of morphine sulfate 2 mg.kg-1. For each temperature interval, the temperature coefficient (Q10) for CMRO2 was calculated (Q10 = CMRO2 at x degrees C divided by CMRO2 at [x - 10] degrees C). Between 37 and 27 degrees C the Q10 was 2.23, but between 27 and 14 degrees C the mean Q10 was doubled to 4.53. With rewarming to 37 degrees C, CBF and CMRO2 returned to control levels, and brain biopsies revealed a normal brain energy state. During cooling, the EEG developed burst suppression at or below 22 degrees C. With further cooling, the periods of suppression increased; however, burst activity continued in seven of eight dogs even at 14 degrees C. 
Prognostic factors for local recurrence in the conservatively treated breast cancer patient: a cautious interpretation of the data. Between 1962 and 1984, a total of 433 patients were treated at Yale-New Haven Hospital with conservative surgery and radiation therapy (CS + RT) to the intact breast. As of January 1990, with a minimum assessable follow-up of 5 years and a median follow-up of 8.21 years, there have been a total of 50 breast recurrences resulting in a 5-year actuarial breast recurrence rate of 8%. Of all clinical factors tested, young age was the most significant prognostic factor for local recurrence (P less than .03). In addition, patients with pathologically involved lymph nodes were noted to have a lower local recurrence rate than patients with pathologically negative axillae (P less than .05). These findings were especially notable given the fact that the node-positive group had a higher percentage of T2 tumors and a higher percentage of patients in the young age group. These paradoxical findings, however, may be explained by the fact that 88% of the node-positive patients underwent adjuvant systemic therapy in the form of either systemic chemotherapy or hormonal therapy, while only 8% of node-negative patients underwent any adjuvant systemic therapy. When analyzed as a function of adjuvant therapy, those patients receiving adjuvant therapy had a lower local recurrence rate than those patients not receiving adjuvant therapy (P less than .08). We conclude that adjuvant systemic therapy impacts on the ipsilateral breast recurrence rate in patients treated with CS + RT. The implications of this study in light of the widespread use of adjuvant systemic therapy are discussed. 
Pathophysiology of sciatica. The exact pathophysiologic mechanisms behind sciatica are incompletely known; however, compression of spinal nerve roots is known to be correlated to both pain and neural dysfunction in a segmental distribution of that specific nerve root. Compression per se may impair the transport of nutrients to the nerve tissue in such a way that affects the nerve root function. There also might be a local affect on nerve roots or root sleeves by substances leaking from the degenerated intervertebral discs. 
Surgical management of extracranial vertebral artery occlusive disease. Thirty-seven consecutive patients underwent vertebral artery (VA) reconstruction over a 6 years period (1983-1989). Detailed neurologic, medical, and angiographic information was obtained for all patients. Indications for surgery were as follows: (1) stenosis of VA with symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency; (2) very tight stenosis (greater than 75%) of the dominant VA with stenosis or occlusion of the contralateral VA; (3) very tight stenosis of VA with bilateral occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA); (4) very tight stenosis of VA with homolateral ICA lesion eligible for simultaneous repair; (5) very tight stenosis of VA and very tight stenosis of the homo or contralateral carotid siphon. There were 15 isolated vertebral lesions (group I), and 22 were VA lesions associated with lesions of the supraaortic trunks which were simultaneously treated (group II). The reconstructions of the first portion of the VA were 30 (12 of group I and 18 of group II) and reimplantation of the VA into the common carotid artery was the procedure of choice. There were 7 revascularizations of the third portion of the VA at C1-C2 level (3 of group I and 4 of group II): carotid-vertebral bypass, using an autogenous vein graft, was the procedure of choice. Three patients in group II died in the immediate postoperative period from myocardial infarction but no patient presented immediate postoperative neurologic deficits. All symptomatic patients but one were relieved of their symptoms in a median follow-up of 31 months. No postoperative complications were observed. Long-term results were satisfactory in all the 28 patients at their last follow-up visit. 
Transesophageal color Doppler echocardiography of the normal St. Jude Medical mitral valve prosthesis. Transesophageal color flow Doppler findings are reported in 36 patients with a St. Jude Medical mechanical mitral valve prosthesis who had no auscultatory evidence for prosthetic valve dysfunction. Multiple jets consistent with mitral regurgitation originating from the central and lateral portion of the prosthesis were found in all patients. Maximum jet length ranged from 11 to 51 mm (mean 21 +/- 9 mm). Maximum jet area ranged from 0.2 to 4.1 cm3 (mean 1.2 +/- 0.9 cm2). The color M-mode Doppler interrogation showed two distinct components of the regurgitant jet: brief early systolic flow consistent with valve closure followed by holosystolic regurgitant flow consistent with transvalvular leakage. Four patients (11%) had a maximum regurgitant jet length exceeding 30 mm and absence of early systolic closure regurgitant flow by M-mode color imaging, suggesting clinically silent paravalvular leakage. Two pin-sized paravalvular suture line defects were confirmed in one patient at cardiac transplantation. We conclude that transesophageal echocardiography is a highly sensitive method for detection of mitral regurgitation in the St. Jude Medical mitral prosthesis. Clinically silent paravalvular leakage should be suspected if the maximum jet length exceeds 30 mm and color M-mode interrogation fails to demonstrate an early systolic closure regurgitant flow component. 
Factors in recent reductions in liver cirrhosis deaths. Since the mid-1970s, there have been substantial declines in liver cirrhosis deaths in many Western countries following a long period of increases. There is variability in the pattern of changes observed: in a sample of 29 countries between 1974 and 1982-83, seven countries showed a significant linear decline, three revealed a curvilinear pattern, increases were observed in six and the rest (13) showed no notable changes. Although reductions in per capita consumption of alcohol may be a contributing factor, these reductions do not seem to account for all of the decreases in cirrhosis deaths that have been observed. Among other factors that might contribute, changes or increases in treatment for alcohol abuse and AA membership have been most strongly linked to these declines; changes in patterns of consumption, dietary habits, prevention efforts and reduced exposure to predisposing factors may also be involved. In view of the importance of these declines for the understanding and prevention of alcohol problems, further research on this issue, perhaps involving international collaborative studies, is needed. 
Ultrastructural study of glandular epithelium in adenomyosis in comparison with those of proliferative endometrium and well-differentiated endometrial cancer. Adenomyotic glandular tissue from five patients underwent electron microscopic investigation to observe its ultrastructural characteristics. The adenomyotic epithelium was compared with that of proliferative normal epithelium (two patients) and well-differentiated endometrial adenocarcinoma (two patients). The results revealed that morphologically the adenomyotic glandular epithelium is somewhat less differentiated than proliferative endometrium and that its cytoplasmic organelles have some similarities with those of endometrial cancer. Whether these similarities predispose the adenomyotic glandular tissue to malignant degeneration remains to be elucidated. 
Initial clinical experience with a 48 by 48 element biplane transesophageal probe. Recent technologic advances in ultrasound have resulted in the capability of transesophageal echocardiographic imaging in both transverse and longitudinal planes. Previous biplane probes suffered from inferior images because of reduced scan elements. We evaluated the utility of a prototype 48 X 48 element biplane transesophageal probe in 23 consecutive patients. Examinations were well tolerated with no side effects. In comparison to the single transverse plane, imaging with the longitudinal plane gave superior information on prosthetic valve pathology, atrial septal abnormalities, and pathoanatomy of the ascending aorta and mitral valve. Complementary information was provided by the longitudinal plane in patients with endocarditis and vegetations and in mitral protheses. Images obtained with this 48 X 48 element biplane probe along with color and spectral Doppler information were not perceptibly inferior to those obtained by single-plane probes. In conclusion, biplane transesophageal echocardiography with a 48 X 48 element probe indicates a great potential for enhanced three-dimensional understanding of cardiac pathology and diagnostic yield in specific pathologies. 
Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome: the risks and benefits of vascular interventions. Our experience with Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome (KTS), a rare congenital malformation, has increased considerably in recent years and now includes 144 patients (65 male and 79 female patients). Hemangioma was present in 137 patients (95.1%), varicosity in 110 (76.4%), and hypertrophy of the soft tissues or bones in 134 (93.1%). In most patients (71.5%) the disease involved one lower extremity. Diagnostic workup included roentgenogram to document limb length discrepancy, noninvasive arterial and venous evaluation, contrast venography, and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging. Most patients did well without treatment or with elastic compression only. Surgical treatment for the vascular malformation in KTS is rarely needed and it continues to be controversial. To evaluate the risks and benefits of vascular interventions, we examined in detail the clinical histories of nine patients who in the last decade underwent operation for a vascular malformation of the lower extremity. In seven patients we removed varicose veins or resected hemangioma of the lower extremity. Although none was cured, all five who underwent resection of varicose veins and one of the two patients who underwent resection of a hemangioma improved. Two additional patients, however, who underwent resection of varicose veins in another institution had worsening of the symptoms. In one patient we performed deep venous reconstruction for atresia of the superficial femoral vein, using the contralateral saphenous vein. Such operation in KTS has not been reported previously. The patient has a patent graft with a competent valve and clinical improvement 6 months after the operation. Although patients with severe chronic venous insufficiency, disturbing cosmetic appearance, or complications of hemangioma may benefit from surgical treatment, detailed preoperative imaging of the extremity and pelvis with magnetic resonance imaging and contrast venography is needed to decrease complications. Rarely, reconstruction for atresia or hypoplasia of the deep veins may be needed. 
Role of platelet function in symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. To evaluate the role of platelet function in the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm, we compared sequential changes of platelet aggregability and beta-thromboglobulin and thromboxane B2 concentrations in blood samples from the internal jugular and peripheral vein of 13 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Platelet function in blood from the internal jugular vein tended to be enhanced during days 0-1 but recovered to the normal range during days 2-4. After day 5, platelet function showed various patterns depending on the presence of symptomatic vasospasm. In patients without symptomatic vasospasm, sequential changes were relatively minor, with normal or slightly high values. Patients with symptomatic vasospasm already showed high platelet aggregability during the early stage of vasospasm. The concentration of beta-thromboglobulin increased several days after the onset of vasospasm, reaching 80 ng/ml or more in patients with a poor prognosis. Two of the five patients with symptomatic vasospasm showed markedly high concentrations of thromboxane B2 after day 8. These results suggest that vasospasm activates platelets and promotes aggregability and that the resulting increased tendency for thrombus formation may affect the patient's prognosis during the advanced stage. 
The use of releasable sutures in Molteno glaucoma implant procedures to reduce postoperative hypotony. We used releasable sutures to minimize immediate postoperative hypotony and flat anterior chamber in 19 cases of refractory glaucoma requiring insertion of a single-plate Molteno implant in a one-stage procedure. A slip knot using 7-0 nylon suture was fashioned around the Molteno tube under a lamellar scleral flap. In 18 of the 19 eyes, anterior chamber depth was normal immediately after surgery. 
Prevention of vasospasm by clot removal and intrathecal bolus injection of tissue-type plasminogen activator: preliminary report. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of postoperative intrathecal injections of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) in preventing cerebral vasospasm in cases with a diffuse severe subarachnoid hemorrhage. All 10 cases were graded Group 3 according to the classification of Fisher and associates, and the CT number (Hounsfield number) of the subarachnoid clot was over 75. After clipping the aneurysm and removing the clot, three cisternal drainage catheters were inserted into both sylvian cisterns and the prepontine cistern, and continuous ventricular drainage was performed routinely. Postoperatively, tPA (0.5 mg/2.5 ml) was infused as a bolus into both basal cisterns and the lateral ventricle twice daily for about 6 days. Angiography and cerebral blood flow studies using single photon emission computed tomography were performed on Day 4 or 5 and between Days 7 and 10 after onset of the hemorrhage. To date, there have been no cases that have shown angiographic vasospasm or delayed ischemic neurological deficits. This preliminary study indicates that the intrathecal bolus injection of tPA produces a marked effect on vasospasm. 
Assessment of current International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics staging of vulvar carcinoma relative to prognostic factors for survival (a Gynecologic Oncology Group study). Analysis of 588 patients with vulvar carcinoma delineated four risk groups by the proportional hazards model. Groin node status (laterality and number positive) and lesion diameter were the only two important independent prognostic factors. The 5-year relative survival rates were 98%, 87%, 75%, and 29% for the risk group categories of minimal (negative groin nodes and lesion diameter less than or equal to 2 cm), low (one positive groin node and lesion diameter less than or equal to 2 cm or negative groin nodes and fewer than two lesions less than or equal to 8 cm diameter), intermediate (negative groin nodes and lesion diameter greater than 8 cm diameter, one positive groin node and lesion diameter greater than 2 cm, or two unilaterally positive groin nodes and lesion diameter less than or equal to 8 cm), and high (three or more positive groin nodes or two bilaterally positive groin nodes), respectively. Applying the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics staging (1988) to these data discriminated risk of death (caused by recurrent vulvar cancer); the 5-year rates were 98%, 85%, 74%, and 31% for stages I, II, III, and IV, respectively. However, within International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage III there were 47 low-, 95 intermediate-, and 28 high-risk patients with relative survivals of 95%, 74%, and 34%, respectively. Overall, this assessment validates current International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics vulvar carcinoma staging, but further refinements are warranted in stage III. 
Ictal 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in alternating hemiplegia. 99mTc-hexamethylpropylenamine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed in a patient with alternating hemiplegia during 2 episodes of the disease. The regional cerebral blood flow patterns correlated with the clinical manifestations during both episodes. Hyperperfusion of the contralateral hemisphere was suggested by asymmetric 99mTc-HMPAO uptake, whereas symmetric 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine uptake was detected during the interictal period. The results suggested that alternating hemiplegia in infants represents an atypical manifestation of epilepsy, despite the lack of paroxysmal electroencephalographic abnormalities during the episodes. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT appears to be a useful method for detecting transient regional cerebral blood flow alterations during paroxysmal events because the tracer is rapidly available for emergencies and retains a fixed distribution for 5-8 hours, sufficient time to allow for SPECT acquisition. 
Native valve Staphylococcus epidermidis endocarditis: report of seven cases and review of the literature. This report describes seven patients from three university hospitals whose native valve infective endocarditis was caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis. The literature on endocarditis caused by S. epidermidis is also reviewed and the clinical features of patients with native valve endocarditis due to this organism are compared with those of patients from a general series of infective endocarditis cases. Compared with infective endocarditis caused by other organisms, S. epidermidis endocarditis tends to occur more frequently in male patients. Patients with S. epidermidis endocarditis exhibit fewer embolic complications and skin manifestations. The frequency of congestive heart failure is lower in this group. The relative indolent course and apparent rarity of native valve S. epidermidis endocarditis necessitate a high index of suspicion for early diagnosis. 
Preservation of skeletal muscle in tissue transfers using rat hindlimbs. Replantation of major extremities after long periods of ischemia can lead to viable replants in many cases, but functional restoration is often poor owing to fibrosis of the muscle. In this study, maximum hypothermic time in tissue transfers containing skeletal muscle using hindlimbs of Lewis rats preserved in 4 degrees C Euro-Collins solution was investigated. After preserving midthigh amputated legs in this solution for 6, 9, and 12 hours, the legs were transplanted to other inbred rats using microsurgical technique, and 1 week later, gastrocnemii were obtained to analyze ATP, ADP, and AMP using high-performance liquid chromatography. The values were compared with those for healthy legs, nonischemic operated control legs, and legs preserved in the same manner for 6, 9, and 12 hours. Histologic and serologic examinations were conducted. ATP values of the 9-hour preservation group resumed those of the nonischemic operated control group, with the values of the 12-hour preservation group remaining at 61 percent. Histologically, focal necrosis, hyaline degeneration, and regeneration processes were the most characteristic manifestations in the muscles transplanted after cold ischemia of 12 hours. It was concluded that skeletal muscle could be preserved for 9 hours in 4 degrees C Euro-Collins solution. 
Surgical evaluation of Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Experience with 110 children. Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a disorder of unknown origin that is probably related to an autoimmune phenomenon. This report concerns 110 children (mean age, 6.2 years; range, 6 months to 14 years) with Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Seventy-two (65%) had abdominal pain associated with nausea and vomiting, bloody stool, and upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Sixty patients with abdominal pain were evaluated and treated conservatively. However, 12 patients underwent laparotomy. Six underwent unnecessary appendectomy for wrongly diagnosed appendicitis. Bowel resection was performed in one patient for an obstructive ileal lesion. Six additional patients had intussusception; surgery was required in three, while barium enema reduction was successfully accomplished in three others. Massive gastric hemorrhage required ligation, vagotomy, and pyloroplasty in two instances. One child with severe scrotal pain, hemorrhage, and swelling underwent unnecessary scrotal exploration. Four additional patients with similar symptoms avoided operation after a testicular scintiscan demonstrated good blood flow. A high index of suspicion and early diagnosis of Henoch-Schonlein purpura based on clinical, roentgenographic, and laboratory findings may avoid unnecessary operations in most cases. However, life-threatening complications (hemorrhage, obstruction, and intussusception) may occur and require operative intervention. All of the patients survived. 
Effects of atrial natriuretic factor in chronic hypoxic spontaneously hypertensive rats. The present study was designed first to investigate the pulmonary hypertensive effects of chronic hypoxia in spontaneously hypertensive rats and second to compare the cardiovascular effects of atrial natriuretic factor on rats exposed to hypoxia and on control rats kept at sea level. Catheters were placed in the femoral and pulmonary arteries for measurement of mean systemic arterial pressure and mean pulmonary arterial pressure. The cardiac output was measured by thermodilution method. It was found that 4 weeks of simulated 18,000-foot hypoxia led to polycythemia, right ventricular hypertrophy, and pulmonary hypertension, which resulted from an increased pulmonary vascular resistance. However, systemic arterial pressure was not significantly different between the two groups of rats. Atrial natriuretic factor administration decreased systemic arterial pressure and pulmonary arterial pressure to a lesser extent in the hypoxic group compared with the sea level control group. It is concluded that these animals showed an impaired response to atrial natriuretic factor after long-term exposure to hypoxia. 
Disappearance of thalamic pain after parietal subcortical stroke. A hypertensive man had a long standing history of contumacious hyperpathia in the right upper extremity, resistant to medical therapy, secondary to a lacunar infarct in the left thalamus. A second cerebrovascular accident caused a small lesion in the left corona radiata, interrupting the thalamoparietal interconnections, and terminated the pain instantly. Interruption of the subcortical parietal white matter may more effectively control pain than cortical lesions. A few surgeons have successfully treated rebellious chronic pain with stereotaxic operations in the corona radiata, resulting in lesions very similar to our patient's. This overlooked and nearly forgotten technique may still have value in treating selected cases. 
Hepatitis C virus antibodies in subjects with and without liver disease in the United Kingdom. The prevalence of antibody to hepatitis C virus, evidence of previous or current infection with this agent of parenterally transmitted non-A, non-B hepatitis, was determined in 340 subjects residing in the United Kingdom. The antibody was detected in 3 per cent of unselected blood donors and in 60 per cent of patients with chronic post-transfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis. Evidence for infection was also found in 30 per cent of intravenous drug abusers, and in 75 per cent of haemophiliacs receiving commercial factor VIII concentrate. The infection is uncommon in renal units and amongst sexually promiscuous groups attending sexually-transmitted disease clinics. Although the seropositivity rate in primary biliary cirrhosis and chronic B and delta hepatitis was very low (0-2 per cent), in patients with autoimmune and alcoholic liver disease it was 14-16 per cent which, although lower than that quoted in studies from Spain and Italy, is considerably higher than would be expected by chance. The reason for the high incidence of non-A, non-B hepatitis in this latter group of patients is unclear. 
Severe hypertension with segmental renal infarction following surgical removal of a retroperitoneal malignant hemangiopericytoma: a case report. Severe hypertension developed in a fifty-five year-old woman after surgical removal of a retroperitoneal tumor, when the renal artery was injured. Renal arteriography after the surgery demonstrated a segmental infarction of the right kidney. A close relationship between activation of the renin-angiotensin system and the development of severe hypertension was observed. Satisfactory control of blood pressure concomitant with reduction of plasma renin activity was achieved by a combination of an angiotensin-converting anzyme inhibitor, beta-blocking agent, and calcium-entry blocker. The mechanism of activation of the renin-angiotensin system in renal infarction is discussed. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide in dialysis patients under various conditions of volume homeostasis. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and plasma renin activity (PRA) were studied in 19 patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) under haemodialysis (HD). On the basis of clinical findings, patients were divided into three groups: group A, 6 patients, of mean age 41 +/- 15 years, without heart failure and in need of ultrafiltration (658 +/- 282 ml h-1); group B, 6 patients, of mean age 54 +/- 15 years, without heart failure under isovolaemic HD; group C, 7 patients, of mean age 60 +/- 3 years, with heart failure (NYHA III-IV) and in need of ultrafiltration (607 +/- 120 ml h-1). The highest predialysis ANP levels were found in group C (1534 +/- 471 pg ml-1) followed by group A (476 +/- 168 pg ml-1) and group B (236 +/- 138 pg ml-1) (normal range 62 +/- 27 pg ml-1). Systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate did not correlate with ANP levels in either of the groups. However, iso-osmotic reduction of the body weight by ultrafiltration was correlated with decreasing ANP levels during HD (for groups A and C, r = 0.88 and 0.98, respectively). Isovolaemic HD did not alter ANP concentrations (group B). All patients received a volume bolus at the end of HD, and they responded with an instant increase in ANP concentration, which was most pronounced in patients with concomitant heart failure. PRA was not significantly correlated with ANP levels during HD. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that there is a sensitive response of ANP levels to changes in body fluid status in ESRD. 
Effects of aspirin treatment on diabetic retinopathy. ETDRS report number 8. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group. Aspirin treatment did not alter the course of diabetic retinopathy in patients enrolled in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS). In this randomized clinical trial supported by the National Eye Institute, 3711 patients with mild-to-severe nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy were assigned randomly to either aspirin (650 mg per day) or placebo. Aspirin did not prevent the development of high-risk proliferative retinopathy and did not reduce the risk of visual loss, nor did it increase the risk of vitreous hemorrhage. This was true both for eyes assigned randomly to deferral of photocoagulation and for eyes assigned randomly to early argon laser photocoagulation. The ETDRS results indicate that for patients with mild-to-severe non-proliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy, it is likely that aspirin has no clinically important beneficial effects on the progression of retinopathy. The data also show that aspirin 650 mg per day had no clinically important harmful effects for diabetic patients with retinopathy. These findings suggest there are no ocular contraindications to aspirin when required for cardiovascular disease or other medical indications. 
Medical Research Council European trial of chorion villus sampling. MRC working party on the evaluation of chorion villus sampling. First-trimester chorion villus sampling has the advantage over second-trimester amniocentesis of allowing earlier prenatal diagnosis of various genetic and cytogenetic disorders in the fetus (and therefore earlier termination in affected pregnancies) but the relative safety and diagnostic accuracy remain unclear. Between 1985 and 1989, 3248 women seeking prenatal diagnosis, principally because of their age, were recruited to an international, multicentre, randomised comparison of the safety and diagnostic accuracy of the two techniques--5% of women allocated chorion villus sampling and 8% of those allocated amniocentesis were not tested, usually because of spontaneous miscarriage. 6% and 2% were retested, in most because of sampling failure. The endpoint of a liveborn infant who survived was achieved by 86% of women allocated chorion villus sampling and 91% of those allocated amniocentesis; statistical analysis, after appropriate weighting for a centre's contribution, showed that the typical difference between the groups was 4.6% (95% confidence interval 1.6-7.5%; p less than 0.01). This difference reflected more spontaneous fetal deaths before 28 weeks' gestation (2.9% [0.6-5.3%]); more terminations of pregnancy for chromosomal anomalies (1.0% [0.0-2.1%]); and more neonatal deaths (0.3% [-0.1 to 0.7%]). The difference in neonatal deaths was due to a preponderance of very immature liveborn infants in the chorion villus sampling group, and this factor also explained that group's longer mean stay in hospital. More abnormal diagnoses followed chorion villus than amniotic fluid analyses (5.6% vs 3.9%). This difference was largely due to diagnoses of trisomy 18 and of (usually mosaic) abnormalities known to be confined to the placenta. 3 terminated pregnancies were false positives, 1 tested by chorion villus sampling and 2 by amniocentesis, and 2 other mosaic cases diagnosed by chorion villus sampling may have been false positives. There was 1 false-negative result in the chorion villus sampling group. The possibility of earlier exclusion or diagnosis of some fetal disorders afforded by first-trimester chorion villus sampling must be set against its clinical risks. 
Children with chronic illness: family and parent demographic characteristics and psychosocial adjustment. This paper presents the results of an epidemiologic study that compares and contrasts psychosocial characteristics of parents and family units of children with chronic illness or physical disability (chronic health problems) with those of healthy children. Data were derived from the Ontario Child Health Study of 1869 randomly selected families, with 3294 children aged 4 to 16 years. In the absence of significant differences between parents and families of children with chronic illness alone and those with physical disability, these groups were combined for analysis, for which odds ratios (OR) or t tests were used. Significant positive findings included increased rates of parental treatment for "nerves" (mothers' OR = 2.1, fathers' OR = 1.9) and increased maternal negative affect scores (Bradburn Affect Balance Scale) (P less than .001) among parents of children with chronic health problems. Important negative findings (95% confidence interval of the OR included 1) included no increase in single-parent families (OR = 1.2), social isolation (OR = 1.0), or alcohol problems (OR = 1.2) among parents of children with chronic health problems. Categorically defined family dysfunction did not differ between the two groups (OR = 1.1). These data contrast with several clinic-based studies and suggest that, in a widely generalizable population survey, families of children with chronic health problems including physical disability do not suffer a marked excess of dysfunction, although some indicators of individual parent psychosocial problems were modestly elevated. 
In vivo molecular analysis of lymphokines involved in the murine immune response during Schistosoma mansoni infection. I. IL-4 mRNA, not IL-2 mRNA, is abundant in the granulomatous livers, mesenteric lymph nodes, and spleens of infected mice. Using Northern Blot analysis, the endogenous levels of IL-4 and IL-2 mRNA in the spleens, mesenteric lymph nodes, and granulomatous livers of male CBA/J mice in the acute phase of infection with Schistosoma mansoni have been quantified. High levels of IL-4 mRNA were detected in all three tissues from infected mice, whereas none was detected in tissues from normal, uninfected, age-matched mice. Isolation of the granulomas from the livers of infected mice and subsequent extraction of total RNA from these lesions resulted in a 70-fold enrichment of IL-4 message compared with the whole, unseparated granulomatous liver tissue. Hence, the predominant source of the IL-4 mRNA detected in livers from infected mice appears to be the schistosome egg-induced granulomas within these livers. In contrast, IL-2 mRNA was never detected in any of these tissues from either infected or normal mice. Control experiments were performed that ruled out the possibility that this inability to detect IL-2 mRNA was due to a difference in the efficacy of the IL-4 and IL-2 probes or due to a selective lability of IL-2 message. These data imply that IL-4-producing, Th2 lymphocytes are active in and possibly integral to the granulomatous, delayed-type hypersensitivity response characteristic of this infection, and directly challenges the current hypothesis that delayed-type hypersensitivity responses are exclusively mediated by Th1 lymphocytes. 
Cardiac disturbances during the administration of taxol. The clinical development of taxol, a new antimicrotubule agent with a unique mechanism of cytotoxic action, has proceeded slowly due to serious hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) and shortages in its supply. Nevertheless, large-scale phase II trials have been initiated as taxol has recently demonstrated impressive activity in advanced and cisplatin-refractory ovarian carcinoma. Furthermore, the incidence of HSRs has been reduced substantially with premedications and modifications in the administration schedule. However, various manifestations of potential cardiotoxicity have been observed in several patients who participated in four phase I and II studies of taxol. Asymptomatic bradycardia has occurred in a high proportion of patients, including 29% of ovarian cancer patients who were treated with maximally tolerated doses of taxol in a phase II study. More profound cardiac disturbances, including a range of atrioventricular conduction blocks, left bundle branch block, ventricular tachycardia (VT), and manifestations of cardiac ischemia, have been observed in seven of 140 patients (5%) who received taxol. Descriptions of these events are presented in this report to alert investigators to the potential for these adverse effects. Although these disturbances did not result in serious sequelae in most patients, investigators should continue to maintain a high degree of caution until precise risk factors, frequency, and clinical significance of these adverse cardiac effects are determined. 
Mycotic (Aspergillus) arteritis resulting in fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case report. A seventy-one year-old Japanese man suffering from carcinoma of the common bile duct died from subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary in intracranial mycotic arteritis (MA). Repeated cultures of the discharge from the draining tubes, the tip of intravenous hyperalimentation catheters, blood, sputum, and urine failed to grow any fungus. Autopsy disclosed MA due to Aspergillus at the terminal portion of the right internal carotid artery close to the posterior communicating artery. 
Evaluation of salvage surgery in heavily irradiated cancer of the buccal mucosa. This report describes the authors' experience with salvage surgery in 78 patients with carcinoma of the buccal mucosa who failed after high-dose radical radiation therapy at Regional Cancer Centre, Trivandrum, India. Forty-four patients (56%) required a hemimandibulectomy for adequate tumor clearance. Fifty-four patients (69%) required a primary reconstructive procedure for wound closure. Follow-up periods ranged from 28 months to 63 months (median follow-up, 41 months). Thirteen patients (17%) developed nonfatal postoperative complications. Thirty-one patients recurred after surgery, five of whom were again salvaged by further surgery. Overall, the recurrence rate was 36%. Most of the recurrences (26/31) were at the primary site. The overall 5-year actuarial disease-free survival after salvage surgery was 59.7%. T stage of the recurrent tumor and its skin infiltration emerged as factors which significantly influenced disease-free survival (P less than 0.05). 
Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy in the management of acute and chronic limb ischaemia. A group of 54 patients with acute or chronic limb ischaemia were initially treated with low dose intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy using streptokinase (10,000 units h-1) or plasminogen activator (0.5 mg h-1). Complete thrombolysis was obtained in 90 per cent of patients with symptoms of less than 1 week duration, and in 50 per cent with symptoms of greater than 1 week (P less than 0.05). Successful lysis in 36 patients was followed by successful bypass surgery in seven, percutaneous angioplasty in 13, no further treatment in 13, repeat thrombolysis in two and amputation in one. Failed therapy was associated with major amputation in 40 per cent. One patient died of haemorrhage and another of stroke as a direct result of thrombolytic treatment. The most common complication was haematoma at the site of cannulation of the vessel. Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy can be very useful for the management of acute and chronic limb ischaemia, but complications do occur and patients should be carefully selected. 
Single operator cardiopulmonary resuscitation in ambulances. Which ventilation device? Cardiopulmonary resuscitation en route to hospital is performed by a single-handed operator in many British ambulances. In this study, three emergency ventilation devices, and mouth-to-mouth breathing, were compared for effectiveness in unintubated patients. Seventeen paramedics used each method on a Laerdal manikin in a randomised order, under identical conditions. Three experienced cardiopulmonary resuscitation instructors repeated the tests in a moving ambulance. There were significant differences in minute volume (p less than 0.01) and number of effective chest compressions (p less than 0.05); mouth-to-mouth breathing produced the best overall results and the simplest device was a close second. The value of automatic ventilators for single-operator cardiopulmonary resuscitation in unintubated patients is questioned. 
HTLV-1 associated T cell lymphoma in South East Asia: case report and family study. Geographic clustering of human T cell lymphoma/leukaemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) infection is well recognised, particularly in south western Japan, parts of West and Central Africa, the south eastern United States and the Caribbean islands. Sporadic cases have been reported in many other parts of the world. The first case of HTLV-1 associated leukaemia/lymphoma (ATLL) in South East Asia is reported. Contact tracing showed a high incidence of carriers among the relatives. 
An inherited defect of neutrophil motility and microfilamentous cytoskeleton associated with abnormalities in 47-Kd and 89-Kd proteins. A 2-month-old male Tongan infant presented with fever, severe skin and mucosal infections, hepatosplenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, and normal neutrophil counts. While polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) morphology was normal, several neutrophil motile functions were found to be altered in the patient. Furthermore, two siblings had died in infancy with a similar clinical picture, raising the possibility of an inherited neutrophil defect. Random migration and chemotaxis, assessed by the under agarose method, were profoundly impaired. Actin polymerization, as measured by flow cytometry of N-(7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl)phallacidin (NBD-phallacidin)-stained PMNs, showed lower basal F-actin and a 1.75-fold increase in response to 10(-7) mol/L formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP) compared with a 4.51-fold increase in control. Microscopic examination of NBD-phallacidin-stained PMN spread on glass showed decreased area of spreading and F-actin-rich filamentous projections distinct from control. The early phase of FMLP-induced right angle light scattering was absent, similar to the effect caused by cytochalasin-B (CB), an inhibitor of actin polymerization. Accordingly, FMLP induced secretion of elastase without the addition of CB. Staphylococcus aureus killing was 50% of control whereas superoxide production response to FMLP and surface expression of CD11b were greater than twice normal. Partial defects in actin polymerization and scatter were seen in the parents and release of elastase, in the absence of CB, was also increased in both parents. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide electrophoresis of whole cell proteins from the patient showed a marked decrease in an 89-Kd protein (8% of control) and a marked increase in a 47-Kd protein (4.2-fold). Both mother and father had decreased 89-Kd (77% and 42% of control) and increased 47-Kd proteins (2- and 3.4-fold), although neither had recurrent infections or chemotactic defects. These studies describe a new inherited actin dysfunction syndrome associated with severe propensity to fungal infection and draw attention to the proteins of apparent molecular weights of 89 Kd and 47 Kd, which may be of great importance in the regulation of actin polymerization in human PMNs. 
Usefulness of early versus late programmed ventricular stimulation in acute myocardial infarction. To determine the influence of timing on the prognostic value of programmed ventricular stimulation after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 32 patients were studied on day 19 (early study) and again on day 36 (late study) after AMI using up to 3 extrastimuli. At the early study, sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) was induced in 12 patients (38%), sustained polymorphic VT in 8 (25%), nonsustained monomorphic VT in 1 (3%), nonsustained polymorphic VT in 1 (3%) and no inducible arrhythmia in 10 (31%). At the late study, sustained monomorphic VT, nonsustained monomorphic VT and nonsustained polymorphic VT were induced in 8 patients (25%) each, and no inducible arrhythmia in 8 (25%). Of the 12 patients who had inducible sustained monomorphic VT at the early study, 7 had noninducibility of sustained monomorphic VT at the late study. Of the 20 patients who had noninducibility of sustained monomorphic VT at the early study, 3 had inducible sustained monomorphic VT at the late study. During the follow-up period (mean +/- standard deviation 21 +/- 8 months), there were 2 sudden cardiac deaths and 3 occurrences of sustained VT. Univariate analysis revealed both inducibilities of sustained monomorphic VT at the early study (p = 0.045) and at the late study (p less than 0.001) to be predictive of sudden cardiac death or clinical occurrence of sustained VT. However, inducibility of sustained monomorphic VT at the late study had a higher sensitivity (100%), specificity (89%), positive predictive value (63%) and negative predictive value (100%) than at the early study (80, 70, 33 and 95%, respectively). 
Allochiria vs allesthesia. Is there a misperception? Allochiria is the mislocation of sensory stimuli to the corresponding opposite half of the body or space. Obersteiner (1882) introduced the term allochiria (Greek allos = other + chiria = hand), and more than 20 authors employed it in this context over the next 25 years. Stewart (1894) described a related phenomenon in which stimuli are displaced to a different point on the same extremity. He noted that the displacements were different than allochiria and coined the term allachaesthesia (ie, allesthesia) (Greek allache = elsewhere + aisthesis = perception). Despite this historical background, Jones (1907) redefined both terms in an attempt to increase diagnostic specificity and attributed allochiria to hysteria. Jones' reinterpretation does not appear to be justified historically, etymologically, or scientifically and has resulted in contradictory definitions of allochiria and allesthesia in present-day medical dictionaries and neurologic textbooks. We advocate a return to usage consistent with the original descriptions and word derivations. 
Autologous fat injection for vocal cord medialization in the canine larynx. This study examined the use of autologous fat as an alternative to Teflon and collagen as the implantable material in vocal cord medialization. Five animals underwent left recurrent laryngeal nerve sections with subsequent fat harvest and implantation into the left true vocal cords. Three animals were killed after 48 hours and 2 after 3 weeks; their larynges were examined with light microscopy. The results of the 48-hour samples show mode-rate acute inflammation and few areas of focal necrosis. The 3-week samples show no necrotic foci, minimal foreign-body reaction, and maintenance of structure and volume of the injected fat. Autologous fat may prove to be a valuable alternative to nonautologous injectable material in vocal cord augmentation. 
Performance of age-matched controls on a battery of visuo-spatial neglect tests. Examination of 47 independent elderly subjects, matched with a population of patients with acute stroke, found that 55% made at least one omission on a battery of neglect tests. Up to 43% made omissions on any one test. Increasing age and other evidence of cognitive impairment were associated with impaired performance on the battery. Omissions were attributed to an age-related decline in visuo-spatial function. Cut-off points are provided to distinguish between such age-related impairment and visuospatial neglect. The importance of age-matched control studies in developing tests of cognitive impairment in stroke research is highlighted. 
Hepatoid adenocarcinoma of the renal pelvis producing alpha-fetoprotein of hepatic type and bile pigment. A right renal pelvic mass in a 72-year-old man was resected. The histologic appearance of the tumor was a mixture of tubular adenocarcinoma cells and hepatoid neoplastic cells, and there was a resemblance to hepatoid adenocarcinoma. The intraoperative level of serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was calculated to be 2246 ng/ml, and the postoperative level ranges from 183.6 to 285.6 ng/ml. Lectin binding assays showed that the serum AFP was the hepatic carcinoma type. In a hepatoid portion, an iron-negative, brown to green pigment was positive for bile. Alpha-fetoprotein was immunohistochemically evident in the neoplastic cells. In addition to the hepatic differentiation, the tumor had differentiated into intestinal absorptive or pancreatobiliary tract cells, as deduced from the frequent presence of spicular bodies, a unique light microscopic feature equivalent to microvilli with an actin core. The hepatoid adenocarcinoma is a distinct type of AFP-producing carcinoma present in the organs with epithelium of endodermal origin. Hepatoid adenocarcinoma in the renal pelvis may arise from a metaplasia of neoplastic mesonephric cells into endodermal cells. 
Oral magnesium successfully relieves premenstrual mood changes. Reduced magnesium (Mg) levels have been reported in women affected by premenstrual syndrome (PMS). To evaluate the effects of an oral Mg preparation on premenstrual symptoms, we studied, by a double-blind, randomized design, 32 women (24-39 years old) with PMS confirmed by the Moos Menstrual Distress Questionnaire. After 2 months of baseline recording, the subjects were randomly assigned to placebo or Mg for two cycles. In the next two cycles, both groups received Mg. Magnesium pyrrolidone carboxylic acid (360 mg Mg) or placebo was administered three times a day, from the 15th day of the menstrual cycle to the onset of menstrual flow. Blood samples for Mg measurement were drawn premenstrually, during the baseline period, and in the second and fourth months of treatment. The Menstrual Distress Questionnaire score of the cluster "pain" was significantly reduced during the second month in both groups, whereas Mg treatment significantly affected both the total Menstrual Distress Questionnaire score and the cluster "negative affect." In the second month, the women assigned to treatment showed a significant increase in Mg in lymphocytes and polymorphonuclear cells, whereas no changes were observed in plasma and erythrocytes. These data indicate that Mg supplementation could represent an effective treatment of premenstrual symptoms related to mood changes. 
Quality of life in long-term survivors of CNS tumors of childhood and adolescence. Clinical reports of small numbers of pediatric brain tumor patients observed for brief periods suggest that long-term survivors continue to have major handicaps into adulthood. To quantify these late effects we interviewed 342 adults (or their proxies) who had CNS tumors diagnosed before the age of 20 between 1945 and 1974, survived at least 5 years, and reached 21 years of age. Survivors were 32 years old on average at follow-up. When compared with 479 matched siblings as controls. CNS tumor survivors were more likely to have died or to have become mentally incompetent sometime during the follow-up period. They were more likely to be at risk for such adverse outcomes as unemployment (odds ratio [OR], 10.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 4.6 to 25.7], to have a health condition that affected their ability to work (OR, 5.9; CI, 3.7 to 9.4), to be unable to drive (OR, 28.8; CI, 6.9 to 119.9), or to describe their current health as poor (OR, 7.8; CI, 1.7 to 35.7). Unfavorable outcomes were more frequent in male survivors than in females, in those with supratentorial tumors compared with infratentorial ones, and in those who received radiation therapy. As clinicians consider improving therapies, they should anticipate late effects, such as those we observed, and attempt to target subgroups for interventions that may improve subsequent quality of life. 
Dog bites in urban children. As a result of a perceived increase in pit bull injuries, all children who presented to The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia during 1989 for evaluation of dog bite injuries were prospectively studied. Epidemiologic information was collected from parents, either at the time of visit or by phone on the following day. A total of 168 children were enrolled; the mean age was 8 years. Males outnumbered females 1.5:1. Most (61%) injuries occurred in or around the home and involved dogs known to the patient (77%). Types of injuries included abrasions (33%), punctures (29%), and lacerations (38%). Thirteen bites had associated complications; nine developed infection. Twelve (7%) children required admission to the hospital. More than 12 different purebreeds or cross-breeds were identified as perpetrators, including German shepherds (n = 35), pit bulls (n = 33), rottweilers (n = 9), and Dobermans (n = 7). Most (54%) animals were contained (ie, leashed, fenced, in-house) at the time of injury. Fewer (46%) were provoked prior to biting. Significantly more pit bull injuries (94% vs 43%, P less than .001) were the consequence of unprovoked attacks and involved freely roaming animals (67% vs 41%, P less than .01). Children aged 5 or younger were more likely to provoke animals prior to injury than were older children (69% vs 36%, P less than .001). It is recommended that families with young children be the target of pet safety education and that measures be sought that would lead to early identification of a potentially dangerous dog and restrict ownership. 
Megaduodenum due to hollow visceral myopathy successfully managed by duodenoplasty and feeding jejunostomy. A 29 year old man with a history of childhood polymyositis developed insulin dependent diabetes and was found coincidentally to have chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction due to visceral myopathy. Multiple full thickness biopsy specimens showed severe disease in the duodenum and the proximal jejunum only, with less involvement distally. Total parenteral nutrition has been avoided for more than a year by enteral feeding through a fine bore jejunostomy catheter positioned with its tip in the distal jejunum. 
Patient-controlled on-demand epidural fentanyl. A comparison of patient-controlled on-demand fentanyl delivered epidurally or intravenously. A prospective, open, clinical trial is described in which 20 patients having upper abdominal surgery were randomly allocated to receive fentanyl for postoperative analgesia by patient-controlled demand analgesic computer by either the epidural or intravenous route. Hourly pain, sedation and nausea scores were very similar in the two groups during the first 24 hours after surgery. What few differences there were favoured the epidural group. There was a highly significant difference in fentanyl consumption between the two groups, with the intravenous group demanding consistently more than twice as much as the epidural group. 
Etiology of acute respiratory infections in children in tropical southern India. Nasopharyngeal secretions and throat-swab specimens from 809 children less than 6 years old with acute respiratory infection were examined by culture and indirect immunofluorescence for the presence of virus or viral antigen. Blood was cultured for the presence of bacteria in selected cases of lower respiratory infection (LRI); pleural fluid also was cultured in cases of empyema. Viruses were detected in 163 (49%) of 331 children with LRI. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) was the commonest agent isolated (106 children). Other viruses isolated included parainfluenza viruses (36 children), adenoviruses (12), and influenza viruses (five). Outbreaks of infection due to RSV occurred during August through October. Pneumonia was the commonest LRI encountered (178 children). Among children with pneumonia, viruses were detected in 65 (37%) of 178 children, and bacteria were isolated from 27 (18%) of the 147 children for whom blood cultures were done. Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Staphylococcus aureus were the common bacterial pathogens isolated. In cases of empyema and pyopneumothorax, S. aureus was the commonest organism isolated. There were 116 children with bronchiolitis, 83 (72%) of whom had viral infections; the majority of these children (81%) had RSV infection. Croup was uncommon (eight cases) and was caused mainly by parainfluenza viruses. 
Paracentesis with intravenous infusion of albumin as compared with peritoneovenous shunting in cirrhosis with refractory ascites. BACKGROUND. There is no satisfactory treatment for refractory ascites in patients with cirrhosis. Both peritoneovenous shunts and paracentesis have been used, but there is uncertainty about their relative merits. METHODS. We studied 89 patients with cirrhosis and refractory ascites who were randomly assigned to receive either repeated large-volume paracentesis plus intravenous albumin or a LeVeen peritoneovenous shunt. Patients in the paracentesis group in whom recurrent tense ascites developed during follow-up were treated with paracentesis, and those in the peritoneovenous-shunt group with diuretic agents or by the insertion of a new shunt if there was shunt obstruction. RESULTS. During the first hospitalization, ascites was removed in all 41 patients in the paracentesis group and in 44 of the 48 patients in the peritoneovenous-shunt group. The mean (+/- SD) duration of hospitalization in the two groups was 11 +/- 5 and 19 +/- 9 days, respectively (P less than 0.01). There were no significant differences in the number of patients who had complications or died. During follow-up, 37 patients in each group were hospitalized again. In the paracentesis group, the number of rehospitalizations for any reason (174 vs. 97 in the peritoneovenous-shunt group) or for ascites (125 vs. 38) was significantly higher, and the median time to a first readmission for any reason (1 +/- 1 vs. 2 +/- 2 months) or for ascites (2 +/- 2 vs. 8 +/- 17 months) was significantly shorter than in the peritoneovenous-shunt group. The total times in the hospital during follow-up, however, were similar in the two groups (48 +/- 49 and 44 +/- 39 days, respectively). Three patients had obstructions of their peritoneovenous shunts during their first hospitalizations, and 15 patients had a total of 20 obstructions during follow-up. Survival was similar in both groups. CONCLUSIONS. The LeVeen shunt and paracentesis are equally effective in relieving refractory ascites. The former may provide better long-term control of ascites, but shunt occlusion is common and survival is not improved. 
Dietary fish oil blocks the microcirculatory manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury in striated muscle in hamsters. Epidemiologic observations and experimental studies have demonstrated a protective effect of dietary fish oil on the clinical manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we used the dorsal skinfold chamber model for intravital fluorescence microscopy of the microcirculation in striated muscle of awake hamsters. In control hamsters (n = 7), reperfusion after a 4-hr pressure-induced ischemia to the muscle tissue elicited the adhesion of fluorescently stained leukocytes to the endothelium of postcapillary venules, capillary obstruction, and the break-down of endothelial integrity. These microvascular manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury were significantly attenuated in animals (n = 7) when fed with a fish oil-enriched diet for 4 weeks prior to the experiments. In leukocyte total lipids, the fish oil diet resulted in a substantial displacement of arachidonic acid, the precursor of the potent adhesion-promoting leukotriene (LT) B4, by fish oil-derived eicosapentaenoic acid, the precursor of biologically less potent LTB5, emphasizing the mediator role of LTB4 in ischemia-reperfusion injury. These results suggest that the preservation of microvascular perfusion by dietary fish oil contributes to its protective effects on the clinical manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury. 
External anal sphincter function in spinal patients. Electromyographic and manometric study. Six patients with complete transection of the spinal cord and six healthy volunteers were examined by using anorectal manometry together with electromyographic (EMG) recording of the external anal sphincter composed of striated muscle. Anal pressure and EMG activity of the external anal sphincter were continuously recorded at rest and during gradual rectal distention (10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 ml) by means of an air-filled balloon eliciting a rectoanal inhibitory reflex (RAIR) at the upper part, and an inflation reflex (IR) at the lower part of the anal canal. All patients and controls had a RAIR for each rectal distention volume. A relationship between the duration of the RAIR and the rectal distention volume was present in controls only. In controls the IR was present for each rectal distention volume, whereas it was present in only one patient for a 40-ml volume. During the resting period, all controls showed continuous tonic EMG activity of the external anal sphincter, but after 30 minutes all the patients showed a decrease and ultimately in five cases a disappearance of the tonic EMG activity of the external anal sphincter. In spinal patients, the presence or absence of EMG activity of the external anal sphincter did not modify the anal canal pressure. These results indicate that: 1) the tonic EMG activity of the external anal sphincter seems to be under the control of supraspinal structures, because in spinal patients it disappears in the absence of sensitive inputs toward the spinal cord; 2) the absence of EMG activity at rest indicates that the external anal sphincter is not implicated in the RAIR disturbances observed in spinal patients; 3) the IR is not a spinal reflex but is under voluntary control, because it is not present in spinal humans; 4) in spinal humans the tonic EMG activity of the external anal sphincter does not play a role in the maintenance of the anal pressure at rest. 
ABO(H) antigens and beta-2 microglobulin in transitional cell carcinoma. Predictors of response to intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The response of patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (STCB) to intravesical chemotherapy is variable; some patients enjoy a long period without recurrence, whereas others have recurrence of tumor within 2 years of removal of the primary lesion. Previously, others have demonstrated that the loss of normal cell surface antigens, such as ABO(H) blood group antigens or beta-2 microglobulin (B2M) has been correlated with more aggressive behavior by tumor. In this study, using immunohistochemical techniques, the authors evaluated the initial pretreatment biopsy specimen of bladder tumors for the presence of ABO(H) antigens and B2M. Data from this sample patient population, all with biopsy-proven STCB, indicate that expression of these two markers is predictive of a therapeutic response to prophylactic intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) (Tice strain) after resection, and that expression of the two markers is of greater predictive value than expression of either antigen alone. 
Modulation of catecholamine cardiomyopathy by allopurinol. It has been suggested that cardiac injury by catecholamines may be the result of coronary constriction leading to ischemic damage. Allopurinol (ALLO) has been shown to reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis in various systems. Hence the possibility that ALLO might limit norepinephrine (NE) injury was tested. Rabbit hearts were infused with NE (3 micrograms/min/kg) for 90 minutes, with or without ALLO (50 micrograms/min/kg). Control specimens infused with saline solution plus ALLO were also prepared. Hearts were excised 48 hours later and studied as isovolumic isolated heart preparations. Peak systolic pressure, coronary flow, and myocardial oxygen consumption were significantly reduced in the hearts infused with NE but not in the NE + ALLO hearts. Myocardial adenosine triphosphate and glycogen concentrations were 29% and 26% lower in the NE hearts compared with control hearts. These reductions were absent in the NE + ALLO group. Moreover, rates of creatine phosphokinase and lactic dehydrogenase release were sharply elevated in the NE hearts but not in those also given ALLO. These findings are consistent with the changes observed histologically. The amount of myocardial damage was less in the ALLO + NE group compared with the NE group (p less than 0.02). This appears to be the first report to demonstrate that ALLO reduces myocyte damage by NE. Possible mechanisms include decreased free radical production, scavenging of free radicals, and preservation of the adenine nucleotide pool. Because xanthine oxidase activity is absent in the rabbit, the latter two mechanisms are more likely explanations for the findings. 
A case of autoerotic asphyxia associated with multiplex paraphilia. During the past 20 years, the sensational aspects of autoerotic fatalities have captured the attention of medical examiners, psychiatrists, law enforcement agents, and the public, as well as the individuals themselves who engage in these dangerous practices. Reports of deaths related to sexual asphyxia have been presented numerous times at national and international meetings and have been the topic of discussion on television talk shows and in the press. Autoerotic fatalities and all the sexual curiosities related to these activities have prompted death scene investigators to publish case reports, and even textbooks, on the subject. The case presented herein is one of a multicomponent paraphilia in which self-asphyxiation (autoasphyxiophilia) led to a fatal autoerotic event. 
Paroxysmal tremor and orofacial dyskinesia secondary to a biopterin synthesis defect. We report a child with a systemic biopterin synthesis defect due to an absence of 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase who had an unusual presentation, with three episodes of coarse "rubral-like" tremor in arms and legs orofacial dyskinesia between the ages of 3 and 6 months. Response to levodopa therapy and CSF neurotransmitter metabolite concentrations before and after therapy suggests that his clinical syndrome resulted from a secondary dopamine deficiency. 
Metabolic and work efficiencies during exercise in Andean natives. Maximum O2 and CO2 fluxes during exercise were less perturbed by hypoxia in Quechua natives from the Andes than in lowlanders. In exploring how this was achieved, we found that, for a given work rate, Quechua highlanders at 4,200 m accumulated substantially less lactate than lowlanders at sea level normoxia (approximately 5-7 vs. 10-14 mM) despite hypobaric hypoxia. This phenomenon, known as the lactate paradox, was entirely refractory to normoxia-hypoxia transitions. In lowlanders, the lactate paradox is an acclimation; however, in Quechuas, the lactate paradox is an expression of metabolic organization that did not deacclimate, at least over the 6-wk period of our study. Thus it was concluded that this metabolic organization is a developmentally or genetically fixed characteristic selected because of the efficiency advantage of aerobic metabolism (high ATP yield per mol of substrate metabolized) compared with anaerobic glycolysis. Measurements of respiratory quotient indicated preferential use of carbohydrate as fuel for muscle work, which is also advantageous in hypoxia because it maximizes the yield of ATP per mol of O2 consumed. Finally, minimizing the cost of muscle work was also reflected in energetic efficiency as classically defined (power output per metabolic power input); this was evident at all work rates but was most pronounced at submaximal work rates (efficiency approximately 1.5 times higher than in lowlander athletes). Because plots of power output vs. metabolic power input did not extrapolate to the origin, it was concluded 1) that exercise in both groups sustained a significant ATP expenditure not convertible to mechanical work but 2) that this expenditure was downregulated in Andean natives by thus far unexplained mechanisms. 
Abnormal vasomotor changes early after coronary angioplasty. A quantitative arteriographic study of their time course. BACKGROUND. To study the impact of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) on coronary vasomotion, we prospectively analyzed spontaneous changes in coronary diameter and the response to the cold pressor test and intracoronary nitroglycerin in 11 patients subjected to successful single-vessel PTCA. METHODS AND RESULTS. All antianginal medications were stopped 48 hours before each study. The minimum diameter of the PTCA segment and the diameter of a distal segment in the angioplastied vessel and of a segment in a control vessel not manipulated by the balloon catheter or guide wire were measured by computerized edge detection immediately before PTCA and 5 minutes after, 4 hours after, and 8 days after PTCA. At 4 hours, PTCA and distal segments were constricted by 38 +/- 9% and 16 +/- 5%, respectively, compared with the values at 5 minutes (p less than 0.01). Before angioplasty, the cold pressor test caused vasoconstriction of PTCA and distal segments by 23 +/- 6% (p less than 0.0001) and 15 +/- 4% (p less than 0.008), respectively, but no constrictor response was elicited at 5 minutes or 4 hours after angioplasty. Eight days after PTCA, the basal coronary diameters were similar to those observed 5 minutes after PTCA and the response to the cold pressor test was similar to that observed before PTCA. All segments dilated significantly with nitroglycerin at all times, and no vasoconstriction changes were found in the control segments. CONCLUSIONS. Four hours after PTCA, transient spontaneous vasoconstriction of the PTCA and distal segments occurs, which is so intense that the cold pressor test does not cause any further constriction. These abnormalities resolve within 8 days of PTCA. 
The histologic reliability of laser cone biopsy of the cervix. Laser conization of the cervix has been advocated as the technique of choice for the treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) in preference to ablative techniques, because it provides a specimen for histologic diagnosis while retaining the advantages of an outpatient procedure with minimal short- and long-term morbidity. To determine whether specimens so obtained are adequate for reliable histologic diagnosis, we reviewed 77 laser conizations performed for lesions confirmed to contain CIN in a colposcopically directed biopsy and satisfying the criteria for local ablation and scored the cones for the presence of epithelial denudation and laser coagulation artifact that interfered with the diagnosis of CIN or the assessment of the margins of excision. Thirty specimens (39%) were negative for CIN. Twenty-eight (36%) showed extensive epithelial denudation, ten (13%) contained coagulation artifact that made recognition of CIN extremely difficult or impossible, and in 11 (14%), assessment of margins was extremely difficult or impossible because of laser coagulation artifact. We conclude that these difficulties with the histologic interpretation of laser cone specimens make it an unsuitable excisional technique when reliable histologic diagnosis of cervical lesions is required. 
Alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes and alcoholic pancreatitis. Altered frequencies of alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes have been reported in patients with chronic pancreatitis, suggesting a possible genetic basis for individual susceptibility to this disease. Alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes, with particular regard to alcoholic pancreatitis, were studied. Patients with alcoholic pancreatitis were compared with alcoholic control subjects with no history of pancreatic disease. Serum alpha 1 antitrypsin concentrations were raised in pancreatitis patients sampled within one month of an acute attack of pancreatitis, but otherwise values were similar to those of control subjects. There were no significant differences in alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes between alcoholics with pancreatitis and alcoholic control subjects. This study of alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes provides no evidence of an inherited susceptibility to alcoholic pancreatitis. 
Avoidance of cancellation of potential hyperstimulation cycles by conversion to in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. OBJECTIVE: The study was undertaken to minimize the rate of ovarian hyperstimulation and to avoid cancellation of human treatment cycles in women treated with human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) for induction of ovulation. SETTING: Patients were treated in the fertility clinic and in vitro fertilization unit of our institution, which is a government, university-affiliated hospital. PATIENTS: Ninety anovulatory patients were treated with hMG. Of these, 12 were at high risk for ovarian hyperstimulation. The criteria for potential ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome were rising excessive 17 beta-estradiol levels of greater than 1,500 pg/mL in the presence of multiple follicles with a mean diameter greater than 15 mm. These patients were transferred for continuation of treatment to our in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) unit. INTERVENTIONS: The patients underwent ova retrieval by the ultrasonically guided transvaginal approach. RESULTS: Of the 12 patients, 5 conceived (41.6%). Two patients had a mild ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, and 1 had a moderate syndrome and was hospitalized for observation for 48 hours. CONCLUSION: In view of the results, we suggest that IVF-ET should be considered in cases in which ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is imminent, rather than withhold human chorionic gonadotropin and cancelling the treatment cycle. 
Plasma and saliva levels of PGI2 and TXA2 in the headache-free period of classical migraine patients. The effects of nicardipine. The levels of Prostacyclin (PGI2) and Thromboxane A2 (TXA2) were assayed simultaneously (RIA) in the plasma and saliva of 9 patients suffering from classical migraine attacks. The assays were done during an attack-free period. In relation to the control group we observed a significant decrease in the plasma levels of PGI2 together with a sharp increase in TXA2 in saliva. When the patients were treated with nicardipine, a calcium antagonist, the TXA2 increase in saliva did not occur. These results suggest both a systemic and local effect in the classical migraine attacks. We explain and discuss our results by referring to the PGI2: TXA2 equilibrium system. Nicardipine action might be related to its ability to reduce the calcium entry into the cell induced by thromboxane. 
Unusual intramandibular neural tumor. Neural tumors within the jaw bones are exceptional. We present the histologic observation of a central mandibular tumor of neural origin. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the neural nature of the tumor, which had features of a schwannoma (neurilemmoma) together with ganglion cells as seen in ganglioneuroma. Moreover, the association with an intracranial tumor, possibly a meningioma, is emphasized. 
Simultaneous esophageal pH monitoring and scintigraphy during the postprandial period in patients with severe reflux esophagitis. To compare reflux events detected by intraesophageal pH monitoring with that of scintigraphy, we simultaneously performed both techniques along with esophageal manometry in nine patients with severe reflux esophagitis. Two hundred eighteen reflux events were detected in the recumbent posture after a meal during a 40-min interval. Both techniques simultaneously detected only 23% of all reflux events. Scintigraphy alone detected 61% of all reflux events as opposed to 16% for pH monitoring. Of those reflux events diagnosed only by scintigraphy, more occurred while the intraesophageal pH was less than 4 (ie, during an acid-clearing interval) than while the intraesophageal pH was greater than 4 (ie, when intragastric contents were neutralized by the meal). Most reflux events occurred during periods of stable, but low LES pressure. While reflux events diagnosed by scintigraphy significantly decreased during the second of two 20-min postprandial intervals, those by pH monitoring tended to increase. That simultaneous scintigraphy and pH monitoring agreed on less than 1/3 of all reflux events not only underscores the fact that both techniques measured different physical components of the esophageal refluxate (ie, volume vs acid concentration, respectively), but also were influenced by different physiologic events such as the ingestion of a meal, gastric emptying, and esophageal acid clearance. 
Pain centers--organization and outcome. Pain treatment centers have evolved at a rapid rate, but they differ in their complexity and services provided. Patients, as well as primary care physicians, have difficulty in identifying the appropriate center for a specific problem. Guidelines for pain centers have recently been proposed by the International Association for the Study of Pain, along with an attempt at their accreditation. Outcome studies from pain centers have proliferated, with a wide range of treatment programs being reported. Comprehensive multidisciplinary pain centers using the rehabilitation medicine approach are effective in decreasing disability and increasing the productivity of patients with chronic, disabling pain. 
Quantitation of axon loss and conduction block in peroneal nerve palsies. We compared conduction in motor fibers supplying the extensor digitorum brevis (EDB) and anterior lateral compartment (AL) muscles. The object was to determine whether there were any differences in the relative proportions of degenerated and blocked nerve fibers between the longer EDB and shorter AL fibers. In almost every case the percentage of motor fibers undergoing axonal degeneration was greatest in EDB fibers. Conversely, the percentage of conduction block was greatest in the AL motor fibers. As clinical recovery is dependent on AL muscles rather than EDB, electrophysiological study of the relative proportions of degenerated and blocked fibers in the former should provide a more reliable measure of outcome than similar studies of EDB. Conduction velocity distal to the fibular head was not slowed despite the large loss of EDB motor fibers. Evidence for selective involvement of the larger myelinated fibers is, therefore, lacking. The location of the major conduction abnormalities was in almost every case between the mid-fibular head and popliteal fossa. 
Depression and chronic fatigue in the patient with chronic pain. Chronic benign pain is commonly associated with chronic fatigue and depression. Depression and chronic fatigue syndrome are also associated with each other and often include pain. Psychologic factors are prominent in these conditions, and they may share neurobiologic factors as well. Management requires separately addressing each component of patients' distress and usually includes physical rehabilitation, education, administration of nonhabituating medications and often counseling. Depression may be a favorable prognostic sign, as it suggests a treatable condition and provides incentive for recovery. 
Demethylation of CpG islands in embryonic cells. DNA in differentiated somatic cells has a fixed pattern of methylation, which is faithfully copied after replication. By contrast, the methylation patterns of many tissue-specific and some housekeeping genes are altered during normal development. This modification of DNA methylation in the embryo has also been observed in transgenic mice and in transfection experiments. Here we report the fate in mice of an in vitro-methylated adenine phosphoribosyltransferase transgene. The entire 5' CpG island region became demethylated, whereas the 3' end of the gene remained modified and was even methylated de novo at additional sites. Transfection experiments in vitro show that the demethylation is rapid, is specific for embryonic cell-types and affects a variety of different CpG island sequences. This suggests that gene sequences can be recognized in the early embryo and imprinted with the correct methylation pattern through a combination of demethylation and de novo methylation. 
Neisseria lactamica meningitis following skull trauma. A woman developed meningitis due to Neisseria lactamica in association with a cribriform plate fracture. Cerebrospinal fluid antigen tests for Neisseria meningitidis were negative. The patient recovered with intravenous penicillin therapy. N. lactamica can be rapidly distinguished from N. meningitidis by the hydrolysis of ONPG (o-nitrophenyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside). In contrast to N. meningitidis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, N. lactamica lacks virulence properties. As 100% of N. lactamica strains are susceptible to penicillin and all three previously described patients with N. lactamica meningitis have recovered with penicillin treatment, the reason for distinguishing the organisms in this context is primarily to prevent unnecessary anxiety and prophylaxis among contacts. 
Potential impact of exclusion criteria on results of hypertension trials. Recent trials of antihypertensive therapy, including the Veterans Administration trials, the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program, the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial, the Australian Mild Hypertension Trial, and the British Medical Research Council Trial, are reviewed with a particular emphasis on the criteria leading to the exclusion of potentially eligible participants. The observation of all-cause and cause-specific mortality rates in the group ultimately selected to participate in the trial is suggested as an index to the general applicability of trial results. Because end-point rates are fundamental for determining sample size, substantial reduction in these end-point rates by patient exclusion should be taken into account by the trial design. Some recent trials may have generated end-point-event rates so low that the power of the trial to detect reasonable treatment effects was substantially reduced. Future trials should attempt to take this important factor into account at the design stage. 
Seminal vesicle cysts: association with adult polycystic kidney disease. Adult polycystic kidney disease (APKD) is associated with cyst formation in the kidney, liver, pancreas, esophagus, ovary, uterus, and brain. Four patients with APKD (aged 45-65 years) with computed tomographic evidence of seminal vesicle cysts are described. All seminal vesicles contained cystic masses with attenuation values of 0-30 HU. Seminal vesicle thickness was 3-4 cm (normal, 1.5 cm). High-attenuation walls separated the cysts, which were 3-35 mm in diameter. All patients had typical renal stigmata of APKD. None had cysts elsewhere, except one patient with hepatic cysts. Postmortem examination in one patient confirmed the seminal vesicle cysts as well as APKD. It is likely that a basement membrane defect allows cyst formation in multiple organs, presumably including the seminal vesicles. Because of the association of seminal vesicle cysts with ipsilateral urogenital anomalies, and because only 60% of patients with APKD have a relevant familial history, the kidneys of patients with cross-sectional imaging evidence of seminal vesicle cysts should also be studied. 
Penetrating atherosclerotic aortic ulcer with dissecting hematoma: control of bleeding with percutaneous embolization. A case is presented in which left subpleural hematoma and hemothorax resulted from a penetrating atherosclerotic aortic ulcer with an aortic pseudoaneurysm and intramedial hematoma. Percutaneous transfemoral embolization of the ulcer with use of coils and thrombin resulted in stabilization of the patient's hemodynamic status. The patient died 6 days later of pneumonia. In certain clinical situations, treatment of bleeding from penetrating aortic ulcers with percutaneous embolization may stabilize the patient's condition, allowing elective surgical intervention. 
Effect of hypoxic exercise on atrial natriuretic factor and aldosterone regulation. To evaluate the possible physiologic role of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in the observed dissociation of aldosterone secretion from the renin-angiotensin system during hypoxic exercise, 12 untrained men, ages 18 to 24, were studied on two separate days for 30 min during hypoxic (16% O2) and normoxic (room air) exercise on a bicycle ergometer. Workloads were adjusted to produce individual heart rates that remained within 70 to 75% of their previously measured maximum. Hemoglobin saturation decreased during hypoxia from 98 +/- 0.1% to 90 +/- 0.4% (P less than .01). Plasma aldosterone levels increased significantly (P less than .01) under both breathing conditions, yet were on average 36% lower during hypoxia than during normoxia (P less than .001). Plasma ANF levels increased during exercise under both conditions (P less than .01), yet levels were 45% greater during hypoxia than during normoxia (P less than .001). Plasma renin activity, adrenocorticotropic hormone, cortisol, potassium, and systolic blood pressure increased during exercise on both study days (P less than .01, compared to basal level), and showed no difference between normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Plasma pH was slightly higher during hypoxic exercise (P less than .05, compared to normoxia). We conclude that acute hypoxemia is a potent enhancing stimulus for ANF release during dynamic exercise and that ANF is probably a contributing factor in the dissociation of aldosterone secretion from the renin-angiotensin system under these conditions. 
Use of technetium-HMPAO to demonstrate changes in cerebral blood flow reserve following carotid endarterectomy. Cerebral perfusion through stenosed internal carotid arteries is usually maintained by autoregulation. However, flow reserve may be reduced, suggesting hemodynamically significant stenosis, and such reduction should be improved by carotid endarterectomy. This concept was studied in 20 subjects with unilateral internal carotid artery stenosis (major stenosis greater than or equal to 70%, minor stenosis less than or equal to 50%). Thirteen had experienced recent transient ischemic attacks and seven had no definite focal symptoms. Subjects underwent Tc-HMPAO cerebral SPECT during acetazolamide dysautoregulation before and after internal carotid endarterectomy. Nine (45%) had perfusion defects that improved after surgery, suggesting surgery had improved cerebral flow reserve. Seven had defects that did not improve after surgery. Four had worsened or new defects after surgery, suggesting perioperative infarcts. The relatively large proportion of patients with improved cerebral blood flow reserve after surgery suggests that this technique may have a significant role to play in assessing which patients might benefit from carotid endarterectomy. 
A comparison of treatment outcomes for black patients and white patients with metastatic breast cancer. The Piedmont Oncology Association experience. Prior studies have shown that black patients with breast cancer have poorer survival times compared with white patients even when adjusted for stage. Seventy-four black patients treated on six Piedmont Oncology Association (POA) protocols were compared with 74 randomly selected white patients treated with the same protocols to determine if race had any independent effect on response, time to progression, or survival time. Patients were evenly matched for pretreatment characteristics with the exception that white patients had a significantly higher percentage of bone metastases and significantly less skin involvement. Response rates and median time to progression were similar for black patients and white patients at 31% and 25%, and 9.3 and 9.1 months, respectively. Black patients had poorer survival times even when adjusting for covariables; median survival time was 14.3 months for black patients and 20.3 months for white patients (P less than 0.05). The reason for this survival difference in Stage IV patients is unclear, but is unlikely to be related to treatment. Additional research in this area will be necessary to resolve this issue. 
Exercise-induced muscle soreness after concentric and eccentric isokinetic contractions. The purpose of this two-part study was to determine whether the amount of exercise-induced muscle soreness differs between subjects who perform concentric and eccentric isokinetic contractions of their quadriceps femoris muscles. In experiment 1, subjects were randomly assigned to either an eccentric or a concentric exercise group and both groups exercised at the same power level. In experiment 2, subjects were randomly assigned to either an eccentric or a concentric exercise group and both groups exercised with maximal effort. Muscle soreness ratings, obtained by using a visual analogue scale, were taken immediately before exercise and at 24 and 48 hours postexercise. Changes in muscle soreness ratings between exercise groups from preexercise to postexercise periods were compared in both experiments, using a one-way between-subjects analysis of variance. There was no difference in the change in muscle soreness from preexercise to post-exercise periods between groups exercising at equal power levels. Subjects who exercised using eccentric contractions with maximal effort demonstrated greater increases in muscle soreness than those who performed concentric contractions. The results suggest that exercise intensity, rather than contraction type, may be the dependent factor in producing exercise-induced muscle soreness. 
Differentiation between hemangiomas and metastases of the liver with ultrafast MR imaging: preliminary results with T2 calculations. We studied the efficacy of T2 measurements at high field strength in distinguishing between liver hemangiomas and hepatic metastases when an ultrafast (single-excitation) MR imaging technique is used. Fourteen patients with known liver tumors were imaged in a 2.0-T prototype ultrafast MR scanner with a spin-echo (infinite TR and TE of 30-340 msec) pulse sequence. Each image was obtained with a total data acquisition time of 20 msec. T2 calculations for hepatic metastases (n = 6) showed a mean of 79.3 +/- 13.5 msec, whereas hemangiomas (n = 8) showed a T2 of 139.8 +/- 18.8 msec (p less than .0001). T2 values of lesions had a smaller relative standard deviation than previously reported, and the range of T2 values of hemangiomas (119-181 msec) and metastases (68-103 msec) did not overlap. Our preliminary results suggest that T2 calculations with ultrafast MR imaging may be useful for differentiating hemangiomas from metastases. We hypothesize that T2 values obtained from ultrafast MR images are more reliable than those obtained from conventional MR images, primarily because of the elimination of T1 information and effects of motion on image signal intensity. 
Thrombolysis in unstable angina: results of clinical studies. Ample evidence exists to support the major role of intracoronary thrombosis superimposed on a disrupted plaque in unstable angina. Consequently, thrombolytic treatment, already established to be highly beneficial in patients with acute myocardial infarction, might also be indicated in patients with unstable angina. The clinical response to thrombolytic treatment has been evaluated in several small-sized studies with inconsistent and somewhat deceiving results. Thus, the role of thrombolysis in the treatment of unstable angina is still controversial. Two ongoing large-scale, randomized, controlled trials, the Third Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI III) in the United States testing recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator and UNASEM in Europe testing anisoylated plasminogen-streptokinase activator complex will, it is hoped, solve the debate. At present, early thrombolysis might be considered for the treatment of the subset of patients with severe rest angina associated with transient ST-T ischemic changes. 
Does oximetry contribute to the detection of apneic events? Mathematical processing of the SaO2 signal. The purpose of this study was to assess the ability of continuous nocturnal oximetry to detect sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) and to recognize nonapneic oxyhemoglobin desaturations. Oxygen saturation oscillations, related to successive apneas in SAS or to apneic episodes in COPD or restrictive patients, were quantified using a new index: delta = 1/n sigma 1 n magnitude of delta(SaO2)/delta(t)(12-s intervals) Twenty-six patients (15 SAS, 8 COPD, and 3 restrictive patients) were included in a prospective study comparing nocturnal oximetry and polysomnography over 34 nights. In apneic patients, we found a strong correlation (r2 = 0.73, p less than 0.01) between time spent in apnea and the delta index. In COPD, the number of apneas was also correlated to the delta index (r2 = 0.92, p less than 0.01). A lower threshold for delta of 1.5 is accurate enough to detect apneas if initial SaO2 is greater than 93 percent. If initial SaO2 is greater than 93 percent, the delta threshold should be 0.8 (sensitivity 95 percent). Such a method could contribute to the accurate selection of patients for polysomnography. 
Effect of antibiotics on food intake and absorption of nutrients for children with diarrhea due to Shigella. The effect of antibiotic therapy on intake of food and absorption of nutrients for 19 male children aged 1-5 years with suspected shigella infection was studied. The children were admitted to the hospital with acute diarrhea, high fever, abdominal pain, and greater than or equal to 25 red blood cells and white blood cells per high-power field in the stool. Microbiologic diagnosis was made within 48 hours of admission. On the basis of clinical and microbiologic criteria, children were classified as having mild or severe infection. Ten children with mild infection did not receive antibiotics, whereas nine children with severe infection were treated with ampicillin. After the children were rehydrated, a 72-hour balance study was carried out during the acute stage of infection with Shigella and was repeated 2 weeks after recovery. The levels of consumption of food and absorption of nutrients were estimated. During the acute stage of infection, such levels were higher for the children treated with antibiotics than for the untreated group. During the recovery phase, the levels of intake of food and absorption of nutrients were equal for both groups. Thus, children who are treated with appropriate antibiotics not only may recover from infection with Shigella more rapidly, but they also may be able to absorb nutrients more efficiently. 
Flexible bronchoscopy via the laryngeal mask: a new technique. Malignant tracheal tumours often cause airway obstruction and this may be aggravated by vocal cord paralysis due to invasion of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Conventional endoscopic techniques performed under general anaesthesia do not give a simultaneous view of vocal cord function and the distal airways. The technique of bronchoscopy via the laryngeal mask allowed full assessment of the cause of stridor in a patient with a malignant tracheal tumour that was causing airways obstruction and vocal cord paralysis. 
On the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. A 1990 update. Although most investigators now agree that chronic hyperglycemia is the basis for diabetic retinopathy, this has not been proven definitively. Even if chronic hyperglycemia is the initial common pathway leading to retinopathy and other complications of diabetes, it appears to act by different mechanisms in different tissues. The enzyme, aldose reductase, may play a major role in the development of diabetic retinopathy, but contradictory evidence exists. At the present time, results of the only study of aldose reductase inhibition and diabetic retinopathy reported in humans were negative. Another mechanism worthy of consideration is nonenzymatic glycation (glycosylation) of proteins, but there is no direct evidence of a causal role in diabetic retinopathy. Several growth factors have been identified in the retina that may promote neovascularization, and at least two inhibitors may prevent the process. There is evidence to support a role for basic and, perhaps, acidic fibroblast growth factors in retinal vasoproliferation. Transforming growth-factor beta, a peptide produced by capillary pericytes and smooth muscle cells and activated by the interaction of these cells with vascular endothelial cells, appears to be an important inhibitor of neovascularization, as is the vascular basement membrane. 
Female urethra: MR imaging. The potential of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the evaluation of the female urethra was studied in 64 patients. Spin-echo T1- and T2-weighted images were obtained in all 64 patients, and contrast-enhanced T1-weighted images were also obtained in 27 patients. Urethral pathologic conditions, established with urethroscopy or histologic examination, or both, included urethral diverticula, inflammatory granuloma, and primary and metastatic neoplasms. On T2-weighted images, all normal urethras demonstrated a characteristic targetlike appearance with differentiation among the outer ring of low signal intensity, the middle zone of higher signal intensity, and the center of low signal intensity. After injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine, the targetlike appearance of the normal urethra was seen on the T1-weighted images. Urethral diverticula were detected with MR imaging in all nine patients with that diagnosis, and in each, MR imaging demonstrated urethral expansion, distortion of the zonal anatomy, and presence of fluid in the middle zone. Primary or metastatic urethral neoplasms were also detected with MR imaging in every patient with the diagnosis, but differentiation between benign and malignant disease was not possible. Local staging of primary or metastatic malignant disease was correct in eight of the 11 patients. In three patients, the inflammatory changes could not be differentiated from tumor invasion, resulting in overestimation of tumor extent. 
Purpura fulminans and adrenal hemorrhage due to group Y meningococcemia in an elderly woman. A 70-year-old previously healthy woman was admitted with a 1-day history of malaise, sore throat, nausea, vomiting, rigors, and confusion. She was found to be in septic shock with purpura fulminans and disseminated intravascular coagulation. She died within 36 hours of admission. Blood cultures grew Neisseria meningitidis group Y. Necropsy revealed evidence of shock and bilateral adrenal hemorrhage. 
Intracardiac mobile thrombus and D-dimer fragment of fibrin in patients with mitral stenosis. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the relation between intracardiac thrombus and blood coagulability in patients with mitral stenosis. DESIGN--Prospective study. Cross sectional echocardiography and plasma concentrations of the D-dimer fragment of fibrin were used concurrently to detect intracardiac thrombus in patients with mitral stenosis. SETTING--Department of Medicine, National Cardiovascular Centre, Osaka, Japan. PATIENTS--63 patients with mitral stenosis. None of them had been receiving any anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Plasma concentrations of D-dimer in patients with a mobile intracardiac thrombus, those in patients with a non-mobile intracardiac thrombus, and those in patients without an intracardiac thrombus. RESULTS--A mobile intracardiac thrombus was found in 10 patients and a non-mobile thrombus in eight. The remaining 45 patients had no intracardiac thrombi. Plasma concentrations of D-dimer in the 10 patients with a mobile thrombus were all greater than 300 ng/ml (mean 983.3, 95% confidence interval 498.9 to 1467.7 ng/ml) and they were significantly higher than those in the patients with a non-mobile thrombus (226.2, 33.6 to 418.8 ng/ml) and the patients without an intracardiac thrombus (147.2, 110.4 to 184 ng/ml). CONCLUSIONS--A high plasma concentration of D-dimer seemed to reflect a hypercoagulable intracardiac state and may be a helpful indicator of the possible presence of mobile intracardiac thrombus in patients with mitral stenosis. 
Prospective clinical and manometric study comparing pneumatic dilatation and sublingual nifedipine in the treatment of oesophageal achalasia. A study was carried out in 30 patients affected by a mild or moderate degree of oesophageal achalasia to compare the clinical and manometric effects of sublingual nifedipine and pneumatic dilatation. Sixteen patients were dilated twice with Rider-Moeller dilators and 14 were treated with sublingual nifedipine 10-20 mg 30 minutes before meals. A manometric evaluation was performed before and six months after starting treatment. The clinical evaluation (according to Vantrappen's criteria) was performed every three months for a mean follow up of 21 months. In both groups of patients a significant (p less than 0.001) fall in lower oesophageal sphincter pressure was observed after treatment and excellent or good clinical results were observed in 75% of dilated patients and in 77% of patients treated with nifedipine. One patient could not tolerate nifedipine. No complications were observed after dilatation. It is concluded that longterm treatment with sublingual nifedipine and pneumatic dilatation are equally effective in the treatment of oesophageal achalasia of mild or moderate degree. 
Mutations of the p53 gene in lymphoid leukemia. p53 is currently considered to be a tumor suppressor gene product, and its alterations are suggested to be involved in several human malignancies. Here we show evidence of the possible involvement of p53 gene mutations in lymphoid leukemias studied by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, single strand conformation polymorphism analysis, and nucleotide sequencing. Fourteen patients with various leukemias were examined and two with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia were identified to have mutations in the coding region of the p53 gene. These mutations included point mutation, triplet deletion, and single nucleotide insertion. Furthermore, expression of the wild-type p53 mRNA was not detected in the samples from these three patients. In one of them, chromosome 17p was deleted, suggesting the absence of the nonmutated p53 gene, whereas in the other two patients, chromosome 17p seemed to be intact by cytogenetic analysis. Our results suggest that alterations of the p53 gene may have a role in the genesis of some leukemias. 
Changes in quantitative SPECT thallium-201 results associated with the use of energy-weighted acquisition. The effect of utilizing energy-weighted acquisition on quantitative analysis of SPECT thallium-201 images was evaluated by simultaneously acquiring energy-weighted and windowed projection images in ten patients. The paired image sets were processed identically and evaluated by probability analysis of defect magnitude as indicated by a commercially available software analysis package. It was predicted that defect magnitude would increase as a result of improved image contrast. This was confirmed experimentally. One should be cautious in relying on strict quantitative criteria in cardiac studies with thallium-201, especially when major changes in the imaging system or technique are introduced. 
Lymphomatous presentation of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A subgroup at high risk of early treatment failure. Multivariate analyses of the clinical course of 1537 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) identified a subgroup which experienced short remission duration and a high incidence of extramedullary relapse. The patients differed from other ALL patients by the presence at diagnosis of two or more of a constellation of clinical and laboratory features: organomegaly or mass disease, E-rosette positivity, hemoglobin level greater than 10 g/dl, leukocyte count greater than 50,000/microliters, male predominance, and older age. This type of presentation of ALL is referred to as the "lymphoma syndrome" (LS) since such patients exhibit a pattern of several clinical and laboratory features which were observed repeatedly but in differing combinations, and some of which clinically resemble lymphoma. A subsequent database from 2231 patients was analyzed. Patients with a mediastinal mass, massive splenomegaly, or massive adenopathy, alone or in combination, had a worse outcome when the patient also had either leukocytosis, E-rosette-positive lymphoblasts, or a normal or near normal hemoglobin (Hb) level at diagnosis. Similarly, the above three laboratory features alone or in combination did not predict less than 40% disease-free survival (DFS) unless they were accompanied by at least one of the clinical features of mass disease. When at least one clinical feature and at least one laboratory feature were present, the overall DFS was 36% 6 years after diagnosis versus 64% for all other patients. The association of these features with poor prognosis remained significant after adjusting for the level of leukocyte count at diagnosis, age at diagnosis, and sex of the patients. Patients with this recurrent syndrome of features do not represent a homogeneous biologic entity but they constitute a subgroup of patients with ALL having a high risk of treatment failure using current therapies, including failure to achieve remission, early relapse, and increased frequency of relapse in extramedullary sites. They deserve early recognition at diagnosis and selection of treatment strategies appropriate for very high risk ALL. 
Chronic xerostomia increases esophageal acid exposure and is associated with esophageal injury. OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of chronic xerostomia on parameters of gastroesophageal reflux and esophagitis. DESIGN: Observational study of a cohort of male patients with xerostomia and age-matched control subjects. SETTING: Tertiary-care Veterans Affairs Medical Center. SUBJECTS: Sixteen male patients with chronic xerostomia secondary to radiation for head and neck cancers or medications. Nineteen age-matched male control subjects with comparable alcohol and smoking histories. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Esophageal motility was similar in patients with xerostomia and controls. Clearance of acid from the esophagus and 24-hour intraesophageal pH were markedly abnormal in patients with xerostomia. Symptoms and signs of esophagitis were significantly more frequent in subjects with xerostomia. CONCLUSIONS: Chronic xerostomia may predispose to esophageal injury, at least in part, by decreasing the clearance of acid from the esophagus and altering 24-hour intraesophageal pH. Esophageal injury is a previously unreported complication of long-term salivary deficiency. 
Insulin and glucagon therapy of acute hepatic failure. When insulin and glucagon are administered to rats with severe liver injury, survival is enhanced with an attenuation of the liver injury compared to that of untreated controls. In rats with acute liver injury both hormones produce a rapid normalization of hepatic protein content following initiation of DNA synthesis. When rats receive both hormones after partial hepatectomy, the first burst of DNA synthesis reaches a maximum earlier than that seen in controls. Both hormones enhance the increment of hepatic putrescine essential for DNA synthesis through activation of ornithine decaroxylase and/or spermidine-N1-acetyltransferase. The enhancement of putrescine content by each hormone is additive. Putrescine supplementation promotes hepatic DNA synthesis after hepatectomy. Based on these data, we conclude that a combination of insulin and glucagon is effective in the therapy of acute hepatic failure in rats. The restoration of liver function as well as the stimulation of liver cell proliferation via putrescine production may contribute to this effect. 
Obesity, a disorder of nutrient partitioning: the MONA LISA hypothesis. The mechanisms underlying different types of obesity have been gradually clarified. Animal models with hypothalamic, genetic or dietary obesity have been examined with a feedback model. Four common final pathways are involved in this model. One of these final common pathways is the sympathetic nervous system. Most Obesities kNown Are Low In Sympathetic Activity states the MONA LISA Hypothesis. A second common pathway is the endocrine system involving adrenal glucocorticosteroids. The third common pathway is hyperphagia. Although not essential for most obesities, hyperphagia may be essential in animals with injury to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. The final pathway is reduced physical activity. The tonic activity of these systems and their response to changes in the diet affect nutrient partitioning between fat and protein. This framework has been used to review genetic obesity, hypothalamic obesity and dietary obesity. 
A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of topical PUVA in persistent palmoplantar pustulosis. The effect of topical PUVA was investigated in the treatment of patients with persistent palmoplantar pustulosis (PPP). In this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 27 patients with PPP there was an overall improvement of the hands and feet in both the active and placebo-treated areas and little difference between them. 
Initial two-year results of the Oregon Liver Transplantation Program. During the first 24 months of the Oregon Liver Transplantation Program, which began in October 1988, 94 patients were formally evaluated and 47 adults underwent 54 liver transplantations. Thirty-four percent of patients were veterans. The recipient operation lasted a mean of 7.4 hours (range: 4 to 16 hours). Veno-venous bypass was used routinely at first but selectively later (7 of the last 26 cases), resulting in reduced operating time. Hepatic artery reconstruction was end-to-end anastomosis in 52 cases and iliac conduit in 2. No arterial thrombosis occurred. Biliary reconstruction was choledochocholedochostomy in 83% and choledochojejunostomy in 17%. Biliary complications occurred in 28%. Operative mortality was 2%, and 1-year actual survival was 80%. Patients with hepatitis B fared worse, with four of six dying at a mean of 7.6 months. Overall, the median hospital stay was 30 days. Patients surviving more than 3 months had a mean Karnofsky score of 82%. No significant difference in outcome was noted in patients receiving prophylactic OKT3 monoclonal antibody (used in 45%) versus conventional immunosuppressive therapy. Overall, allograft rejection occurred in 55% of patients. Retransplantation was required in seven patients, three for primary graft nonfunction, two for uncontrolled rejection during induction therapy with OKT3, and two for graft failure secondary to recurrent hepatitis B. 
Evidence for a pathogenic linkage between glomerular hypertrophy and sclerosis. Primary renal disease of immunologic or nonimmunologic mechanisms induces loss of substantial nephron population. It is presumed that the initial loss of functioning nephrons causes alterations of function and metabolism in remnant nephrons, which per se are self-inflictive, leading to further loss of nephrons. The ultimate outcome of this vicious cycle is the end-stage kidney. The potential role of various pathophysiologic mechanisms has been explored. These studies have shown a tight link between glomerular hypertrophy and sclerosis. Analysis of individual glomeruli show a biphasic pattern of these two parameters. Early development of glomerular sclerosis takes place along with the hypertrophy of the glomerulus, and further advancement of sclerosis occurs with shrinkage in glomerular size. Thus, we propose that, after initial nephron loss, the remnant glomeruli are exposed to increased growth-promoting factors, which are self-inflictive in nature due to their capacity to produce excessive amounts of extracellular matrix in the mesangial area. When the excessive matrix obliterates the glomerular capillary lumen, a typical sclerotic lesion appears. This is a vicious and accelerating process, since sclerosis induces further reduction in the nephron population, thereby imposing greater influence of growth-promoting factors even on glomeruli that are initially resistant. 
Endorectal sonography in the evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. Endorectal sonography initially was developed for evaluation of the prostate and now has been adapted for evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. We used endorectal sonography to evaluate a spectrum of diseases, including primary and recurrent rectal carcinoma, metastases, villous adenoma, leiomyosarcoma, endometriosis, sacrococcygeal teratoma, chordoma, retroperitoneal cystic hamartoma, pelvic lipomatosis, diverticulitis, and perirectal abscess. The technique has been useful in localization of perirectal abscesses and in sonographically guided biopsy of perirectal masses. Knowledge of normal sonographic anatomy of the rectum is essential in the evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. In this essay, we describe the technique of endorectal sonography and illustrate the sonographic findings in a variety of diseases. 
Electrophysiologic analysis of early Parkinson's disease. We have been interested in the application of quantitative measures of motor performance as a possible means of early detection of Parkinson's disease. To assess motor function, we have measured movement time (the physiologic correlate of bradykinesia) and reaction time (simple and directional choice) with an upper limb motor task, and tremor with accelerometry and electromyographic recordings. In this report we describe preliminary data from a Parkinson's disease patient group with symptoms of fewer than 2 years' average duration (compared with an age- and gender-matched normal control group) which indicate that precise, quantitative tests of motor function can detect the slight deviations from normal that are present in early Parkinson's disease. It appears that tests of bradykinesia are most sensitive, and detection of rest tremor is most specific. These tests may be applicable in screening individuals who are suspected of having or are "at risk for" Parkinson's disease and other related disorders. 
Total replacement for post-traumatic arthritis of the elbow. Fifty-three of 55 consecutive elbow replacements for post-traumatic arthritis were followed for a minimum of two years (mean 6.3, range 2 to 14.4). The patients presented difficult management problems, having undergone an average of two previous operations per joint; 22 joints had suffered prior complications; 18 had less than 50 degrees of flexion and six were flail. One of three versions of the Coonrad prosthesis was employed in all. During the follow-up period, 10 patients underwent 14 revision procedures for aseptic loosening; 38 elbows are currently without progressive radiolucent lines. In two patients an elbow had to be resected, one for deep infection and the other for bone resorption following a foreign-body reaction to titanium. The current design of the Coonrad prosthesis offers a reliable option for the treatment of post-traumatic arthritis but should be used only in carefully selected patients over the age of 60 years. 
Total excision and extra-anatomic bypass for aortic graft infection. Reports of high mortality and amputation rates following total excision and extra-anatomic bypass for aortic graft infection have prompted the use of alternate approaches including local antibiotics, partial resection, in situ revascularization, and graft excision without revascularization. Experience with aortic graft infection was reviewed to establish current morbidity and mortality rates and evaluate our bias in favor of total excision and extra-anatomic bypass. Aortic graft infection was identified in 32 patients, 8 with aortoenteric fistulas. The mean interval between graft placement and infection was 34 months. History of groin exposure (75%) or multiple prior vascular surgery (50%) was common. Clinical signs included fever and/or leukocytosis (23 patients), false aneurysm (9 patients), graft thrombosis (6 patients), groin infection (11 patients), and gastrointestinal hemorrhage (6 patients). Microbiologic data, available in 26 patients, demonstrated gram-positive organisms in 15 patients and gram-negative in 9. Multiple organisms were seen in 11 patients. Patients were treated by partial removal with (8 patients) or without (4 patients) revascularization or total removal with (18 patients) or without (2 patients) revascularization. Revascularization was by an extra-anatomic route, either simultaneous or staged. Overall morbidity/mortality was less in the revascularized groups (p = 0.01), while late complications were seen only after partial removal (p less than 0.01). The best results were found after total excision with revascularization. No patient in this group experienced late infection or amputation during a mean follow-up of 34 months (range: 1 to 168 months). Complications after total excision and extra-anatomic bypass for aortic graft infection are lower than generally appreciated. This approach should remain the standard to which other approaches are compared. 
Primary squamous cell carcinoma of a gastric remnant. A 77-yr-old male developed primary gastric squamous cell carcinoma 33 yr after gastric resection for peptic ulcer disease. At the time of diagnosis, he was being endoscopically followed for large irregular stomal polyps. Infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma with focal keratinization and stomal polypoid hypertrophic gastritis was found. Previous reports describe adenocarcinoma and adenosquamous carcinoma in gastric remnants. There are various theories as to how such a tumor may arise in this setting. 
Acoustic neuroma: a cost-effective approach. A cost-effective approach to the diagnosis and treatment of acoustic neuromas continues to evolve as diagnostic methods improve. In the past 7 months, since gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become available in our practice, our screening and presurgical workup has changed. The purpose of this article is to outline the current philosophy of the senior authors in relation to acoustic neuroma management on the basis of 72 patients diagnosed from July 1988 to February 1989. With more sensitive diagnostic means, older less sensitive studies may be eliminated from the routine workup, thus maintaining cost-effectiveness while preserving the highest standard of patient care. The body of this article will review our current use of the many available diagnostic options and emphasize a cost-effective approach. 
Aortic valve replacement with omniscience and omnicarbon valves. Clinical results achieved in 100 cases of aortic valve replacement with the Omniscience (O-S) valve during the period from 1980 to 1985 as well as 100 cases of aortic valve replacement with the Omnicarbon (O-C) valve during the period from 1985 to 1989 were studied. Concomitant surgical procedures including mitral valve replacement were performed in 63 patients in the O-S group and 67 patients in the O-C group. Cumulative follow-up in the two groups was carried out for a total of 559 and 273 patient-years, respectively. The overall 4-year actuarial survival rate was 82% +/- 3.8% in the O-S group and 89.5% +/- 3.2% in the O-C group, the corresponding rates for patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement being 82.9% +/- 4.2% in the O-S group and 91.9% +/- 3.5% in the O-C group. The overall 4-year actuarial event-free rate with respect to thromboembolic complications was 88.8% +/- 3.3% in the O-S group and 94.4% +/- 2.8% in the O-C group, as compared with the corresponding rates of 89.2% +/- 3.6% in the O-S group and 95.9% +/- 2.8% in the O-C group for patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement. The overall rate of valve-related complications, including thromboembolism, anticoagulant-related hemorrhage, perivalvular leak, infection, and structural failure, was 78.8% +/- 4.2% in the O-S group and 89.3% +/- 3.5% in the O-C group (p less than 0.05), and for isolated aortic valve replacement, 79.7% +/- 4.5% in the O-S group and 89.6% +/- 4.1% in the O-C group. 
Results of a multicenter study of the modified hook-titanium Greenfield filter. Initial efforts to modify the stainless steel Greenfield filter for percutaneous insertion led to development of a titanium Greenfield filter, which could be inserted by use of a 12F carrier. This device functioned well as a filter but had an unacceptable 30% rate of migration, tilting, and penetration. Therefore a titanium Greenfield filter with modified hooks was developed and has been tested in 186 patients at 10 institutions. Successful placement occurred in 181 (97%); placement of the remainder was precluded by unfavorable anatomy. A contraindication to anticoagulation was the most frequent indication for insertion (75%). All but two were inserted percutaneously, predominantly via the right femoral vein (70%). Initial incomplete opening was seen in four patients (2%), which was corrected by guide wire manipulation and asymmetry of the legs in 10 (5.4%). Insertion site hematoma occurred in one patient, and apical penetration of the cava during insertion occurred in a second patient. Both events were without sequelae. Follow-up examinations were performed at 30 days at which time 35 deaths had occurred. Recurrent embolism was suspected in six patients (3%) and two of three deaths were confirmed by autopsy. Filter movement greater than 9 mm was seen in 13 patients, (11%) and increase in base diameter greater than or equal to 5 mm was seen in 17 patients (14%). CT scanning showed evidence of caval penetration in only one patient (0.8%). Insertion site venous thrombosis was seen in 4/46 (8.7%) patients screened. The modified hook titanium Greenfield filter is inserted percutaneously or operatively through a sheath, eliminating concern for misplacement from premature discharge. 
Colonic complications after toxic tribal enemas. Tribal enemas obtained from traditional healers are used widely in Southern Africa for a variety of indications. Inclusion of injurious substances such as potassium dichromate may cause serious colonic and renal complications. Nine such patients, in seven of whom chromate use was confirmed, presented after a mean delay of 7.3 days. All patients had bloody diarrhoea and vomiting and three underwent major colonic resection, requiring a total of ten procedures. One patient suffered mechanical perforation of the rectum, with subsequent necrotizing fasciitis, necessitating rectal excision. Eight patients had acute renal failure and seven required dialysis. One patient died. At follow-up one patient has chronic renal failure and only three are completely well. Although local medical practitioners are aware of the problem, the challenge of preventing harmful cultural practices remains. 
Intradermal hepatitis B vaccination. The availability of vaccine since 1982 for immunization against hepatitis B virus (HBV) has had minimal impact on the disease; mass immunization has been suggested. Intradermal vaccination, which has precedent in prophylaxis of other infectious diseases, has been investigated as a low-cost alternative to traditional intramuscular HBV vaccination. Results of open and comparative trials indicate similar seroconversion rates for intradermal and intramuscular HBV vaccination routes in healthy adults. However, antibody titers and, presumably, duration of antibody protection appear to be decreased with intradermal HBV vaccination. Limited data suggest that demographic factors such as age and gender may affect vaccine responsiveness to intradermal HBV vaccine. Adverse skin reactions are common but do not represent a deterrent to continued intradermal HBV vaccination. There is a need for large-scale prospective comparative trials to substantiate the value of intradermal HBV vaccination. Nevertheless, the potential economic and epidemiologic benefit of intradermal vaccination justifies continued investigation for prevention of HBV infection. 
Meckel cave lesions: percutaneous fine-needle-aspiration biopsy cytology. The authors describe the novel combination of two traditional methods to facilitate diagnosis of Meckel cave lesions, which may otherwise require craniotomy to obtain adequate tissue samples. Fine-needle-aspiration biopsy cytology was performed on tissue obtained with a percutaneous approach via the foramen ovale with use of fluoroscopic guidance and intravenous analgesia during an outpatient procedure. This new application of fine-needle-aspiration biopsy cytology results in decreased patient morbidity and significant cost reduction. 
Audit of outpatients: entering the loop. OBJECTIVE--To develop and test a method for routine data collection to observe current practice in outpatient pain clinics. DESIGN--Prospective questionnaire survey completed by consultants on each patient seen during October 1989 to May 1990. SETTING--Outpatient pain clinics of five teaching and five district general hospitals in Scotland and northern England. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Number of new referrals and their source, and characteristics of pain at presentation. RESULTS--4354 forms were completed by 21 consultants over 29 weeks, corresponding to 2241 patients, of whom 981 were new referrals. The proportion of consultations at which new referrals were seen varied among the 10 clinics from 15% to 34%. The difference could not be accounted for by type of hospital. Sources of new referrals varied widely between the clinics (for example, range 22% to 78% for general practitioner referrals), as did new referrals by the type of pain (range 10.8% to 55.2% for low back pain, 10.5% to 32.5% for pain associated with surgery). However, these differences in types of patients seen could not be accounted for by variations in referral patterns among clinics. Problems identified in performing an audit of outpatients included the difficulty of obtaining firm diagnoses, the need for a method to link successive patient contacts, and the complexity of the presenting problem in many patients. CONCLUSIONS--It is possible to collect data for audit routinely in outpatient clinics. Observation of current practice in the clinics suggested possible unmet need or inappropriate management, which may require changes in practice. 
Indications and limitations of aortic valve reconstruction. To elucidate the value of conservative operation for aortic regurgitation, all consecutive patients operated on between July 1988 and July 1990 were reviewed. Of 251 patients with aortic regurgitation, 107 (42.6%) had nonprosthetic operation. The mean age was 23 years, and 90 patients (84.1%) were rheumatic. Two techniques were used: repair (annular and leaflet plasties, 69 cases) and cusp extension with glutaraldehyde-treated pericardium (25 bovine, 13 autologous). There were two hospital deaths (1.8%), both in the repair group, and no late deaths or embolic events. Only 5 patients (4.7%) were anticoagulated. In the repair group there were 12 reoperations, four (5.9%) due to aortic and eight to mitral dysfunction. In the cusp extension group there were two reoperations due to mitral dysfunction. Echocardiographic follow-up showed better results with cusp extension. In conclusion, conservative operation for aortic regurgitation is possible in a high percentage of young rheumatic patients and does not require anticoagulation. Cusp extension is more reliable than repair in terms of early results, although its long-term durability is not yet known. 
Influence of human immunodeficiency virus infection on cell-mediated immunity in chronic D hepatitis. To determine whether the abnormalities of cell-mediated immunity described in chronic D hepatitis are associated with hepatitis D virus (HDV) infection or concomitant human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, serologic and tissue hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HDV markers and T lymphocyte subsets were studied in serum samples from 38 patients with chronic D hepatitis, 26 of whom had HIV infection. Patients with chronic D hepatitis and HIV infection had significantly lower peripheral blood T4:T8 ratios resulting from a significant increase in T8+ (suppressor/cytotoxic) cells, while numbers of T lymphocyte subsets were normal in cases with chronic D hepatitis only. HIV+ patients showed an increase in HBV replication (identified by hepatitis B core antigen in liver and hepatitis B e antigen and HBV DNA in serum) and in HDV replication (tissue D antigen and HDV RNA) without evidence of more active liver disease. Probably the immunologic disturbances detected in chronic D hepatitis are secondary to HIV infection, do not contribute to the pathogenesis of liver injury, and are associated with increased viral B and D replication. 
Differential diagnosis of head and neck lesions based on their space of origin. 2. The infrahyoid portion of the neck. The infrahyoid portion of the neck can be considered as a series of contiguous fascial planes and intervening spaces that lend themselves well to axial imaging. These spaces can serve as a basis on which to formulate differential diagnoses for diseases in this region. This pictorial essay describes the fascia and fascial spaces of the infrahyoid portion of the neck. The contents of each space, the common abnormalities affecting the space, and the characteristic displacements produced by disease in each space are reviewed. 
Congestive heart failure symptoms in patients with preserved left ventricular systolic function: analysis of the CASS registry. The clinical characteristics and long-term survival of 284 patients from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) registry data base who had moderate to severe congestive heart failure symptoms and a left ventricular ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.45 were studied. A control group consisting of registry patients with an ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.45 who did not have heart failure was used for comparison. Patients who had heart failure were older and more likely to be female and to have a higher incidence of hypertension, diabetes and chronic lung disease than registry patients who did not have heart failure. As a group, patients with heart failure had more severe angina and were more likely to have had a prior myocardial infarction than were registry patients without heart failure. At 6 year follow-up, 82% of patients in the heart failure group survived compared with 91% of patients in the control group (p less than 0.0001). Multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazards model identified the following independent predictors of mortality: regional ventricular systolic dysfunction, number of diseased coronary arteries, advanced age, hypertension, lung disease, diabetes, increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and heart failure symptoms. Among patients with heart failure, the 6-year survival rate of those who had three-vessel coronary artery disease was 68% compared with 92% for the group without coronary artery disease. However, the 6-year survival rate for patients with heart failure who underwent surgical revascularization of diseased coronary arteries was not significantly improved compared with that of patients treated medically. 
Carcinoid tumour of the gastrointestinal tract: prognostic factors and disease outcome. This study represents retrospective analysis of 87 patients with a carcinoid tumour of the gastrointestinal tract seen and followed in the British Columbia Cancer Agency (BCCA) from 1960 to 1986. In 49 cases, the primary site was the small bowel. The rest of the cases were distributed as follows: 11 appendix, 10 rectum, 5 stomach, and 7 undetermined. We extrapolated the Dukes' and modified Astler-Coller surgicopathological classifications used for colorectal cancer for use in our cases of carcinoid tumour of the gastrointestinal tract. A strong correlation was found, using this staging, with disease-specific survival. Other prognostic factors included histologic differentiation, the presence of macroscopic residual disease after initial surgery, and level of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in urine. Among 51 patients with surgically grossly removed disease, there was a tendency for the development of distant and distant/locoregional recurrence more often than locoregional recurrence alone. The liver was the commonest site of distant recurrence. Analysis of the effect of radiotherapy or chemotherapy on carcinoid tumour of the gastrointestinal tract proved unsuccessful because only a small portion of the patients had this treatment, and it was used mainly for palliation. 
Contemporary management of neurofibromatosis. The neurofibromatoses are two distinct entities with different genetic origins. The phenotypic expressions and required treatments are different. The devastating nature of neurofibromatosis-2 may be more effectively controlled through the application of advanced imaging techniques and contemporary neurotologic procedures. The most common manifestation of neurofibromatosis-2 is that of bilateral acoustic neuromas. The eventual total bilateral sensorineural deafness associated with this condition can be obviated in selected cases if the diagnosis is established early. Follow-up data are reported for three patients in whom hearing was preserved in at least one ear. When removal with hearing preservation is not possible, subtotal tumor removal with decompression of the internal auditory canals may delay progression of hearing loss. A new approach to tumors of the pterygomaxillary fossa that have extended to the middle cranial fossa has been successfully applied and is described. 
Growth hormone deficiency following radiation therapy of primary brain tumors in children. The medical records of 123 patients treated for brain tumors at Children's Hospital and Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, between 1985 and 1987 were reviewed. The endocrinological complications of radiation therapy and the effectiveness of growth hormone (GH) replacement therapy were assessed. These were the first 2 years after synthetic GH became available. The disease pathology was confirmed at craniotomy or biopsy in 108 patients. Ninety-five children completed radiation therapy and 65 of these were alive at the time of review; these 65 children represent the study population. The most common tumor types were medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, and ependymoma. Endocrine evaluation was initiated with changes in the patients' growth velocity. Patient workup included skeletal x-ray films for determination of bone and analysis of thyroxin, thyroid-stimulating hormone, and somatomedin-C levels. Following 1-dopa and clonidine stimulation, provocative studies of GH levels were performed. Growth hormone failure and short stature were observed in 26 children, most commonly in the 2nd year after tumor treatment. Eight patients with GH failure were also hypothyroid. Hormone replacement therapy was initiated with recombinant GH, 0.05 mg/kg/day, and all children so treated showed an increase in height, with eight patients experiencing catch-up growth. There were no complications of therapy or tumor recurrence. Studies of baseline bone age and somatomedin-C levels on completion of radiation therapy are recommended. Comprehensive endocrine studies should follow changes in the patients' growth velocity. With early GH replacement, catch-up growth is possible and normal adult heights may be achieved. 
Subarachnoid hemorrhage in sickle-cell disease. The neurological complications of sickle-cell disease include cerebral intracerebral hemorrhage; subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has been infrequently reported. Among 325 patients with sickle-cell disease followed at the University of Illinois between 1975 and 1989, 11 cases of SAH were identified. Aneurysms were found in 10 of these patients, three of whom had multiple aneurysms. All of the patients had some degree of anemia and nine underwent craniotomy without hematological or neurological complications. From this review it appears that SAH is not uncommon in sickle-cell disease patients and tends to occur at a younger age and with smaller aneurysm size than in the general population. With proper perioperative management, including exchange transfusions to reduce the proportion of hemoglobin S to less than 30%, these patients can undergo angiography and craniotomy without an increased incidence of complications. The techniques used in managing sickle-cell disease patients with SAH are discussed. 
Selective expression of CD45 isoforms defines CALLA+ monoclonal B-lineage cells in peripheral blood from myeloma patients as late stage B cells. The peripheral blood lymphocytes from 42 patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and 13 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) were studied by three-color immunofluorescence (IF) using antibodies directed to a broad range of B-cell markers (CD19, CD20, CD21, CD24), CALLA (CD10), PCA-1 (a plasma cell marker), and to the high and low molecular weight isoforms of the leukocyte common antigen, CD45RA (p205/220) and CD45RO (p 180). CD45RA is expressed on pre-B and B cells, and a transition from CD45RA to CD45RO defines differentiation towards plasma cells. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from patients with myeloma included a large subset of B-lineage cells (mean of 39% to 45%) that were CALLA+ and PCA-1+ in all patients studied, including newly diagnosed patients and patients undergoing chemotherapy. Southern blot analysis indicated the presence of monoclonal Ig rearrangements in PBMC and a substantial reduction in the germ-line bands consistent with the presence of a large monoclonal B-cell subset. Avoidance of purification methods involving depletion of adherent cells was essential for detection of the abnormal B cells. Phenotypically, this abnormal B-cell population corresponded to late B or early pre-plasma cells (20% to 80% of PBMC), as defined by the concomitant expression of low densities of CD19 and CD20, moderate densities of CALLA and PCA-1, and strong expression of CD45RO on all B cells, with weakly coexpressed CD45RA on a small proportion. Heterogeneity in the expression of CD45RA and CD45RO within the abnormal B-cell population from any given patient suggested multiple differentiation stages. Abnormal B cells similar to those in MM were also detected in MGUS, although as a lower proportion of PBMC (26%). Abnormal B cells from patients with MGUS expressed predominantly the CD45RO isoform, but had a lower proportion of CALLA+ and PCA-1+ cells than were found on B cells from MM. This work indicates that the large subset of circulating monoclonal B lymphocytes from myeloma patients are at a late stage in B-cell differentiation, continuously progressing towards the plasma cell stage. 
Preventing heel ulcers: a comparison of prophylactic body-support systems. Five commercially available body-support systems used in the prevention of decubitus heel ulcers were objectively compared for their capacity to dissipate or decrease pressure concentration at the most prominent posterior aspect of the heel in bedridden, insensate patients. The Foot Drop Stop, a foam heel suspender, completely eliminated contact between the heel and the bed, and it was the most successful in decreasing pressure concentration. The space boot and foam heel protectors were far more successful than sheepskin rugs or polyester heel protectors, which provided little protection to the prominent heel. 
Unilateral hydrocephalus: prenatal sonographic diagnosis. We studied six cases of unilateral hydrocephalus detected prenatally to analyze the sonographic features of the abnormality and to determine the cause and clinical outcome. In all cases, third-trimester sonograms showed marked unilateral lateral ventriculomegaly (mean atrial width, 4.4 cm) and normal contralateral lateral, third, and fourth ventricles. Five of the six cases had marked thinning of the cortical mantle on the affected side and shift of midline structures to the contralateral side. The causes of unilateral hydrocephalus were agenesis or stenosis of the foramen of Monro in three cases, transient obstruction of the foramen in one fetus with an intraventricular hematoma, underlying brain dysplasia in one fetus with a variant of holoprosencephaly, and undetermined in one case. All six neonates had placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt catheter; four of these have had normal cognitive development at follow-up. The remaining two infants have moderate to severe developmental impairment. Unilateral hydrocephalus is a rare anomaly that can be recognized by prenatal sonography. Even though unilateral ventriculomegaly may be marked, early diagnosis and treatment may result in a favorable clinical outcome. 
An overview of ankle arthrodesis. Arthrodesis of the ankle can result in a painless, normal walking gait. However, complications in ankle arthrodesis can be major, and can occur when anatomy, deformity, or bony deficiency is not properly addressed. Nonoperative treatment should always be considered first, and, if possible, an open or arthroscopic ankle debridement can provide significant pain relief. Arthrodesis should be considered after conservative treatment fails. Infections, deformity, sensory deficiencies, and bony defects require special consideration. The use of bone graft and internal or external compression will enhance the likelihood of a successful arthrodesis. 
Glandular odontogenic cyst: clinicopathologic analysis of three cases. The glandular odontogenic cyst is a rare cyst of odontogenic origin, first described in 1988 by Gardner et al. Three previously unreported glandular odontogenic cysts are presented; none recurred after the initial surgical treatment, and one example was associated with a squamous odontogenic tumor-like proliferation in the wall. Ten similar cases were found in the literature, and their clinical and roentgenographic features, and follow-up, have been compared with the present cases. 
Progression of scleral disease. The clinical features of 290 patients with scleral inflammation were reviewed to determine whether a classification based on the anatomical site and clinical appearance of the disease at presentation reflected its natural history. The authors' results confirm that the majority of patients remain in the same clinical category throughout the course of their disease. Of the 104 (35.9%) patients who experienced a recurrence of their disease, only 12 had progressed from diffuse to nodular disease, and 10 patients who originally had nodular disease developed scleral necrosis. Patients with necrotizing scleritis were older than patients in the other groups and more frequently had an associated systemic disease than patients with either diffuse or nodular disease; necrotizing scleritis was the most difficult disease to treat. Diffuse anterior scleritis had a lower incidence of visual loss (9%) than either nodular scleritis (26%) or necrotizing disease (74%), and, therefore, the authors consider nodular scleritis a disease of intermediate severity between diffuse scleritis and necrotizing disease. In this series, 12% of patients presented with posterior scleritis, and visual loss was most frequent in this group (84%). 
Antihypertensive drug treatment. Potential, expected, and observed effects on stroke and on coronary heart disease. The effects of prolonged differences in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) on the risks of stroke and of coronary heart disease (CHD) were estimated from nine major prospective observational studies involving about 420,000 men and women who were followed up for intervals of 6-25 years. The results indicate that a prolonged difference of about 6 mm Hg in DBP was associated with approximately 37% fewer strokes and 23% fewer CHD deaths and nonfatal myocardial infarctions. The effects of equivalent reductions in DBP produced by antihypertensive drug treatment but maintained for only a few years have been estimated in several overviews of randomized trials involving a total of 30,000-40,000 patients. The results of the overviews indicate that treatment reduced the risk of stroke by about 40%, suggesting that most or all the long-term potential benefits for stroke due to lower DBP were achieved within about 3 years of beginning treatment. The risks of nonfatal myocardial infarction and CHD death may have been reduced by about 10% among patients allocated to active treatment; the 95% confidence limits for the difference ranged from about zero to about 20%. Whatever the true effect of treatment on CHD, it would appear somewhat less than the difference in risk estimated from the observational studies for a prolonged difference in DBP of the same size. This apparent shortfall in benefit may reflect a long time-course for changes in DBP to have their full effects on CHD, possible adverse side effects of the principal trial treatments, or both. 
Effect of ventilation with soluble and diffusible gases on the size of air emboli. Pulmonary hypertension resulting from venous air embolism is known to increase after ventilation with highly soluble and diffusible gases. Exacerbation of the hypertension could be due to further blockage of the circulation if the bubbles enlarge as a result of ingress of gas by diffusion. This mechanism has been frequently cited but lacks direct proof. To determine directly whether intravascular air bubbles actually enlarge when highly soluble and diffusible gases are inspired, we used microscopy to measure the size of gas emboli in vivo. When air bubbles were injected into the right atrium, the bubbles that appeared in pulmonary arterioles were larger during ventilation with helium or nitrous oxide than with air. Air bubbles injected into the pulmonary artery enlarged when the inspired gas was changed to helium or nitrous oxide. The direction, magnitude, and timing of changes in bubble size were consistent with a net diffusion of gas into the bubbles. These data support the idea that venous air emboli enlarge during ventilation with soluble and diffusible gases and thereby cause further vascular obstruction. 
Platelet activation in the pathogenesis of unstable angina: importance in determining the response to plasminogen activators. Unstable angina is a clinical syndrome of recurrent myocardial ischemia. In some cases, this reflects episodic platelet activation and coronary thrombosis. Thus, the biosynthesis of thromboxane A2, which is largely derived from activated platelets, is increased, often coincident with chest pain. The major role of platelets in unstable angina may influence the response to plasminogen activators. Platelets increase the resistance of thrombi to lysis, by inducing clot retraction and cross-linking and by releasing inhibitors. Thus, coronary thrombi in unstable angina may be resistant to lysis. Furthermore, both t-PA and streptokinase cause platelet activation and thrombin formation in vivo, possibly via plasmin. Plasmin can activate platelets and factor V directly. These prothrombotic effects of plasminogen activators may limit their activity in unstable angina. At the very least, their therapeutic efficacy may be highly dependent on the coadministration of potent antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. 
Viral hepatitis. The new ABC's. Hepatitis may be caused by hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus (classic non-A non-B viral hepatitis), hepatitis D virus (delta agent), and hepatitis E virus (epidemic non-A non-B viral hepatitis). Cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, and herpes simplex virus may also occasionally cause hepatitis. Some forms of hepatitis carry the risks of chronic infection, cirrhosis, or hepatocellular carcinoma. Treatment options for viral hepatitis are limited and, in many cases, still under investigation. Prophylaxis is available for many forms of hepatitis and should be offered to those at risk. 
Reversal of protein-bound vitamin B12 malabsorption with antibiotics in atrophic gastritis. The role of bacteria in the bioavailability of protein-bound vitamin B12 was examined in eight elderly subjects who had atrophic gastritis and in eight normal controls. On separate days and in random order, vitamin B12 absorption tests were performed using either radiolabeled crystalline or protein-bound vitamin B12. At the same time, bacterial samples were collected from the upper gastrointestinal tract. The tests and gastrointestinal aspirates were performed before and during tetracycline therapy. Crystalline vitamin B12 was absorbed to the same extent in the two study groups. Atrophic gastritis subjects absorbed significantly less protein-bound vitamin B12 than normal controls (mean +/- SEM, 0.7% +/- 0.2% vs. 1.9% +/- 0.5%, respectively). However, protein-bound vitamin B12 absorption in these subjects normalized after antibiotic therapy. These results suggest that the small amounts of vitamin B12 released from the protein binders is readily absorbed (as shown in vitro) and/or metabolized by bacteria. 
Telangiectatic osteosarcoma. Telangiectatic osteosarcoma is a rare variant of osteosarcoma. In the original report from the authors' institution, a poor prognosis was noted. The authors have updated their experience with this entity. The prognosis for patients with telangiectatic osteosarcoma has improved remarkably. The prognosis in the present series seems to be the same as that for conventional osteosarcoma. Adjuvant chemotherapy seems to help in salvaging patients with metastatic disease. However, in this small series, survival of patients without metastasis is apparently not influenced by whether they received chemotherapy. 
Large vessel occlusion with vasculitis in systemic lupus erythematosus. Patients with SLE may have acute large vessel occlusion due to vasculitis and/or circulating antiphospholipid antibodies, as illustrated by the case we have reported. Unfortunately, delayed medical attention led to gangrene of the foot and amputation. Early recognition and appropriate treatment may significantly decrease morbidity and mortality. Medical treatment may include corticosteroids, thrombolysis, anticoagulation, or immunosuppression. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Present and future. The angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibiting agents have emerged with the diuretic agents, beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking agents, and calcium antagonists as therapeutic options for major consideration during the initial treatment of hypertensive patients. These compounds antagonize a potent pressor mechanism underlying hypertensive disease. The ACE inhibitors curtail the generation of the potent octapeptide angiotensin II; in addition, degradation of the potent vasodilator bradykinin is inhibited. Hemodynamically, ACE inhibitors reduce arterial pressure through a decreased total peripheral resistance that is unassociated with reflex stimulation of the heart or expansion of intravascular volume. The arteriolar dilation accounting for the decreased vascular resistance seems to occur in each target organ of the disease. Unlike the direct-acting smooth muscle vasodilators or adrenergic inhibitors, ACE inhibitors dilate the efferent as well as the afferent glomerular arterioles and thereby reduce glomerular hydrostatic pressure and renal filtration fraction, even though renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate are preserved. The ACE-inhibiting compounds not only reduce left ventricular afterload in hypertension but also diminish cardiac mass and wall thicknesses. The mechanism(s) for some of these actions have not yet been defined precisely, but they undoubtedly involve the autocrine/paracrine actions of the renopressor system and their effects in the cellular biologic events of vascular smooth muscle and the cardiac myocyte. It seems plausible and exciting that the "more local" renin-angiotensin systems will be exploited by those ACE inhibitors yet to be synthesized, which will result in new applications for this class of pharmacological agents. 
Use of Valsalva maneuver to unmask left ventricular diastolic function abnormalities by Doppler echocardiography in patients with coronary artery disease or systemic hypertension. It has been suggested that changes in left atrial pressure may mask or mimic left ventricular diastolic function abnormalities detected by Doppler echocardiography. The effect of the Valsalva maneuver on the transmitral flow velocity profile was therefore studied in 28 patients without evidence of coronary artery disease (group 1, mean age +/- standard deviation 50 +/- 8 years) and in 94 patients with evidence of coronary artery disease or systemic hypertension (group 2, mean age 54 +/- 10 years). At baseline, group 2 patients had higher peak late diastolic filling velocity (A), lower peak early (E) to late diastolic filling velocity (E/A) ratio and longer isovolumic relaxation time than group 1, whereas heart rate, E velocity and E deceleration time were similar in both groups. During Valsalva, both groups had similar increases in heart rate and similar decreases in E velocity but E/A ratio decreased significantly only in group 2 because of a lesser decrease in A velocity. The E/A ratio was greater than or equal to 1.0 both before and during Valsalva in all but 1 patient in group 1, whereas in group 2, 32 patients had E/A greater than or equal to 1.0 at rest and during Valsalva, 33 patients had E/A greater than or equal to 1.0 at rest but less than 1.0 both at rest and during Valsalva. Using group 1 as controls, prevalence, specificity and positive predictive value of E/A less than 1.0 in group 2 were 31, 100 and 100% at rest and 66, 96 and 98% during Valsalva. 
Membrane cerebral lipids in Rett syndrome. The lipid membrane composition of cerebral tissue from 5 patients with classic Rett syndrome, ages 12-30 years, and from 14 age-matched controls was studied. The results demonstrated a selective loss of myelin-associated lipids and an enrichment of gangliosides in temporal white matter. The ganglioside pattern revealed an increase of astroglial cell-associated gangliosides and reduced proportions of gangliosides GD1a and GT1b. This latter finding may be crucial in synaptic function. The fatty acid compositions of ethanolamine phosphoglyceride, choline phosphoglyceride, and galactosylceramide were normal. 
Effect of respiratory muscle fatigue on subsequent exercise performance. The purpose of this study was to determine whether induction of inspiratory muscle fatigue might impair subsequent exercise performance. Ten healthy subjects cycled to volitional exhaustion at 90% of their maximal capacity. Oxygen consumption, breathing pattern, and a visual analogue scale for respiratory effort were measured. Exercise was performed on three separate occasions, once immediately after induction of fatigue, whereas the other two episodes served as controls. Fatigue was achieved by having the subjects breathe against an inspiratory threshold load while generating 80% of their predetermined maximal mouth pressure until they could no longer reach the target pressure. After induction of fatigue, exercise time was reduced compared with control, 238 +/- 69 vs. 311 +/- 96 (SD) s (P less than 0.001). During the last minute of exercise, oxygen consumption and heart rate were lower after induction of fatigue than during control, 2,234 +/- 472 vs. 2,533 +/- 548 ml/min (P less than 0.002) and 167 +/- 15 vs. 177 +/- 12 beats/min (P less than 0.002). At exercise isotime, minutes ventilation and the visual analogue scale for respiratory effort were larger after induction of fatigue than during control. In addition, at exercise isotime, relative tachypnea was observed after induction of fatigue. We conclude that induction of inspiratory muscle fatigue can impair subsequent performance of high-intensity exercise and alter the pattern of breathing during such exercise. 
Effect of temporary occlusion of hypogastric arteries on blood loss during radical retropubic prostatectomy. We report on a prospective, partially randomized study of 130 patients, examining the effect of temporary occlusion of the hypogastric arteries on intraoperative blood loss, perioperative blood replacement and change in preoperative to postoperative hematocrit. We observed no significant difference in any of these parameters when comparing patients who did and did not undergo intraoperative occlusion of the hypogastric arteries. These findings suggest that temporary occlusion of the hypogastric arteries during radical prostatectomy does not have a major effect on the blood loss associated with this operation. Extensive collateral circulation to the prostate and a substantial venous component of blood loss may explain these findings. Banking of 3 units of autologous blood preoperatively would have decreased the need for homologous transfusions in the majority of patients. 
Cross-resistance patterns in ACNU-resistant glioma sublines in culture. Three ACNU-resistant clones (R1, R3, and R12) were isolated from 9L rat glioma cells under selection pressure of ACNU in vitro. The authors have investigated the mechanisms of resistance and characteristics of these clones at the cellular level by studying cross-resistance patterns to chemical and physical agents. Although these resistant sublines showed complete cross-resistance to methyl-chloroethylnitrosourea (MCNU), no cross-resistance was observed for other alkylating agents, while each of the resistant sublines showed partial cross-resistance to structurally dissimilar toxic agents (vinblastine, Adriamycin, and VP-16). No difference in ACNU uptake was observed between 9L and R3 cells, and resistance patterns among alkylating agents suggested that the mechanism of ACNU resistance was specific to bifunctional nitrosoureas. Based on a transport study, this multidrug resistance could be explained by reduced intracellular uptake of these drugs, but there seemed little possibility that membrane P-glycoprotein, which usually is observed in typical multidrug-resistant cells, was expressed in these ACNU-resistant cells because enhanced drug efflux was not found in ACNU-resistant sublines. Significant collateral sensitivity to L-asparaginase indicated that ACNU might disturb the asparagine synthetic pathways by its mutagenic action. The increased level of total glutathione in the resistant sublines may be one mechanism of radiation or ACNU resistance. 
Cervicofacial cystic hygroma. Patterns of recurrence and management of the difficult case. Cystic hygromas usually present in infancy or early childhood as compressible masses that may rapidly and intermittently enlarge. While they may arise in any anatomic location, hygromas of the head and neck are especially difficult to manage since enlargement may cause serious sequela such as airway obstruction, feeding difficulties, and speech pathology. Complete extirpation of these lesions is often impossible, and recurrence rates are accordingly high. We reviewed our 10-year experience in treating cervicofacial cystic hygromas. Of 34 patients, 21 had lesions cephalad to the hyoid and 13 had lesions caudal to the hyoid. While none of the 13 children with infrahyoid lesions demonstrated feeding or respiratory difficulties, eight of 21 children with suprahyoid involvement presented with dysphagia or airway compromise. The recurrence rates for infrahyoid and suprahyoid lesions were 15% and 81%, respectively. Those children with suprahyoid hygromas also experienced an increased operative complication rate compared with patients with infrahyoid involvement. Principles of management for suprahyoid and infrahyoid lesions are described, including the specific management of lingual, submandibular, parotid, and parotofacial hygromas. 
Can essential hypertension be subclassified with respect to mechanism? Hypertension may result from a variety of abnormalities. The rise in blood pressure may trigger other secondary events that further influence cardiovascular homeostasis. The ability to measure some markers associated with hypertension or the responsiveness of blood pressure to nutritional interventions or to specific therapeutic agents may also have pathogenetic implications. The ultimate goal of further knowledge in this area should be to understand the fundamental abnormalities responsible for hypertension. Such insight would permit more effective treatment and, perhaps, primary prevention of this ubiquitous and multifaceted disorder. 
Effectiveness of imazodan for treatment of chronic congestive heart failure. The Imazodan Research Group. A 12-week, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of imazodan, a type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor, was conducted in 147 patients with congestive heart failure to determine clinical efficacy and safety. Patients were randomized to placebo or 2, 5 or 10 mg of imazodan administered twice daily. Patients were maintained on their standard therapy including diuretics, digoxin and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. The mean ejection fraction was 23 +/- 10%. Exercise time increased from baseline in all 4 groups. There was no significant difference observed between the placebo group and any of the treated groups with regard to exercise time, ejection fraction, frequency of ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia. When analyzed by intent to treat, the placebo mortality was 7% (3 of 44) and the imazodan mortality was 8% (8 of 103) (p = not significant). This study failed to demonstrate that imazodan provided any benefit in exercise performance when compared with placebo. 
The anal continence plug: a disposable device for patients with anorectal incontinence. Anorectal incontinence is most commonly found in the elderly, but colorectal surgeons now see an increasing number of younger patients with this condition. Although medical and surgical treatments are available, a proportion of patients remain refractory to therapy. We investigated the efficacy of three designs of anal continence plug. 8 women and 2 men (mean age, 52 years) who were incontinent to both liquid and solid stool tested each plug for three consecutive weeks. 1 patients withdrew from the study. The median weartime for the optimum plug design was 12 h, and there were no episodes of incontinence in 82% of the periods during which the plug was in place. Patients required a median of eleven plugs per week, and in 82% of cases insertion was as easy as with a suppository. Plugs may have a place in the management of patients with anorectal incontinence. 
A review of californium-252 neutron brachytherapy for cervical cancer. Since 1976 a clinical trial has been conducted to test the feasibility, the potential, and to develop methods for using the neutron-emitting radioactive isotope, californium-252 (Cf-252), for the treatment of cervical cancer. A total of 218 patients were treated in the initial study period from 1976 until 1983. The trials initially treated advanced (Stages III and IV) cervical cancer patients using different doses and schedules; they were extended to include unfavorable presentations of Stages I and II because of favorable results in the initial trials. The authors began to treat patients with Stage IB bulky or barrel-shaped tumors and the majority were treated with both radiation and hysterectomy. Actuarial survival was determined for Stage IB disease and was 87% at 5 years and 82% at 10 years. For those tested with preoperative radiation it was 92% at 5 and 87% at 10 years. For Stage II, it was 62% 5 years and 61% at 10. Survival 5 years after combined radiation and surgical therapy for Stage II disease was 68%. For Stage III, it was 33% at 5 years and 25% at 10. However, 5-year survival using the early neutron implant was 46% versus approximately 19% for delayed Cf-252 or cesium 137. Different schedules and sequences of neutrons and photons greatly altered outcome. Neutron treatment before external photon therapy was better for all stages of disease. Only about 5% of all patients developed complications after neutron therapy. No hematologic or mesenchymal second tumors were observed. Neutron brachytherapy was found to be very effective for producing rapid response and greatly improved local control of bulky, barrel, or advanced cervical cancers. The clinical trial identified and evolved schedules, doses, doses per session, and developed methods different from standard photon therapy but highly effective for local control and cure of cervical cancers of all stages. Clinical and radiobiologic understanding for the use of neutron therapy was greatly advanced by this trial. Future trials will focus on patients with advanced disease and will require evaluation of adjuvant chemotherapy studies and neutron-enhancing chemicals. 
Comparison of polyamide and polypropylene membranes for plasma separation. Plasma separation experiments were made with polyamide experimental prototype hollow-fiber plasma filters with surface areas between 0.025 m2 and 0.1090 m2 using bovine blood collected in acid citrate dextrose (ACD). The maximum filtration velocity rose with the wall shear rate gamma w as gamma w 0.72 +/- 0.02 and decreased with the length of fiber L as L-0.41 with a correlation coefficient of 0.97 +/- 0.02. The results were similar to those with polypropylene fibers. We also investigated the occurrence of hemolysis as a function of shear rate and transmembrane pressure. The free hemoglobin concentration of filtered plasma was checked using a U.V. spectrophotometer. It was concluded that polyamide membrane filters can be safely used for plasma separation from blood. 
The relationship of chemotherapeutic and endocrine intervention on natural killer cell activity in human breast cancer. Peripheral blood natural killer (NK) activity against K562 target tumor cells was monitored in patients with breast cancer receiving no treatment, combination chemotherapy, and/or endocrine therapy. NK activity in untreated Stage I patients with no evidence of disease (ned) was significantly higher than in healthy controls. NK activity was shown to decline in individuals with cytotoxic drug therapy (P equals 0.036). There also were reduction in lymphocyte recoveries concomitant with chemotherapeutic intervention (P less than 0.001). Lymphocyte counts were incorporated in a calculation of absolute NK activity that more accurately reflected the significant reduction in NK activity that occurred in patients with localized and systemic disease on chemotherapy. Different chemotherapeutic agents were found to selectively affect NK activity. Stage II patients on phenylalanine mustard (P)/5-fluorouracil (F) (PF) and cyclophosphamide (C)/methotrexate (M)/5-fluorouracil (F) (CMF) protocols showed significant reductions in overall NK activity relative to healthy controls and Stage I patients with ned. Patients on P/doxorubicin (A)/F/tamoxifen (Tx) (PAFT) protocols showed reduced NK activity relative to Stage I patients. Patients on the short-dose C/A (CA) protocol showed normal levels of overall NK activity. High-risk Stage I patients on methotrexate (M)/F (MF)with sequential leucovorin rescue and patients with metastatic disease on endocrine therapy, i.e., Tx or megestrol acetate (Meg) showed overall NK activities in the range of healthy controls. Patients with systemic disease on CMF, CMF/vincristine/prednisone (CMFVP), vinblastine/A/thiotepa/fluoxymesterone (VATH), mitomycin/mitoxantrone (MtMx), and A regimens showed overall levels of absolute NK that were significantly less than either healthy controls or metastatic patients undergoing endocrine therapy. NK cytolytic data, monitored at multiple effector to target ratios, were subjected to exponential regression analysis. The elevation of NK cell responses in Stage I patients with ned and the decline of NK cell responses with cytotoxic chemotherapy were due to alterations in the maximal plateau levels of NK cell cytotoxicity represented by the A (asymptote) values. The k values obtained on regression analysis and indices of the relative killing capacities of individual NK cells remained unaltered in all populations. These results suggest that the cytolytic lymphocyte NK pool, elevated in Stage I patients with cancer, selectively declines as a result of cytotoxic therapy. 
The atrial natriuretic factor hormonal system in the regulation of sodium excretion in dogs with experimental heart failure. In response to a meat meal containing 125 mEq of sodium, conscious dogs (n = 5) with an arteriovenous (AV) fistula and chronic compensated heart failure exhibited temporally related increases in postprandial plasma immunoreactive atrial natriuretic factor (iANF), right atrial pressure, and sodium excretion. In separate experiments, two weeks of dietary sodium restriction produced similar marked stimulation of renin and aldosterone both in normal dogs (n = 5), and in AV fistula dogs (n = 5) with chronic high circulating levels of ANF. Plasma iANF did not change (P greater than .05) in either group. These results suggest that the ANF system is involved in the postprandial regulation of sodium excretion in the AV fistula dogs with compensated heart failure. In the postabsorptive state, however, the activity of the renin-aldosterone axis is closely related to dietary sodium intake and appears to function independently of the ANF system for the prevention of sodium loss. 
Malignant blue nevus. To elucidate the histologic features and biologic behavior of malignant blue nevus (MBN), 12 cases were analyzed in which the tumor showed no junctional activity and arose in a blue nevus background. Seven patients were men and five were women; their mean age was 48.8 years. Eight lesions were on the scalp, and no patient had a family history of melanoma. The histologic appearance of most lesions was a nodule or nodules of malignant cells in a blue nevus. Mitoses were present in all lesions with atypical forms in eight; however the mitotic rate exceeded two per ten high-power fields in only one lesion. Four lesions had necrosis, and four had a heavily pigmented malignant component. Four patients had recurrences; ten patients had metastases, and eight died of their disease. Therefore MBN is an aggressive neoplasm. 
Pheochromocytoma with pyrexia and marked inflammatory signs: a paraneoplastic syndrome with possible relation to interleukin-6 production. Pheochromocytoma can cause several paraneoplastic syndromes. We report a patient with pheochromocytoma who exhibited pyrexia and marked inflammatory signs along with an elevated serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) level. All of these abnormalities disappeared and serum IL-6 became undetectable by removal of the tumor. In addition, immunohistochemical analysis revealed the presence of IL-6 in the tumor cells. It is suggested that pyrexia and the elevation of acute phase proteins can be a paraneoplastic syndrome with pheochromocytoma, and that the elaboration of IL-6 from pheochromocytoma may play an important role in the development of the syndrome. 
Steps towards cost-benefit analysis of regional neurosurgical care OBJECTIVE--To determine the cost of averting death or severe disability by neurosurgical intervention. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis of one year's admissions for neurosurgery; comparison of outcome with expected outcome in the absence of neurosurgical intervention and with the cost of neurosurgery. SETTING--Wessex Neurological Centre. PATIENTS--1026 Patients were admitted to the neurosurgical service in 1984. Of 1185 admissions, 978 case records were available and outcome was known in 919. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Outcome was assessed with the Glasgow outcome scale, modified as necessary, from the case notes, or by letter follow up to the general practitioner. Expected outcomes for each of the 54 diagnoses were derived from both published reports where available and an expert panel of 18 consultant neurosurgeons. The cost of the neurosurgical service for 1983-4 was known from a separate study and the cost per patient was calculated using the length of stay. RESULTS--The cost of neurosurgery in 1983-4 was 1.8 million pounds. In all, 243 deaths or severe disabilities were estimated to have been averted at an average cost of 7325 pounds (range 5000 pounds to 70,000 pounds). The overall cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) was 350 pounds (range 34 pounds to greater than 400,000 pounds). The cost of long term care for severely disabled survivors is at least 18-fold greater than the cost of neurosurgical intervention to avert such disability. CONCLUSIONS--In Britain neurosurgery is not expensive in comparison with the costs and benefits of other areas of medicine, and the cost per QALY is unexpectedly low except for severe diffuse head injury, malignant brain tumors, and cerebral metastases. The neurosurgical budget should be assessed in the context of managing a patient in hospital and subsequently in the community. 
HLA class I antigen expression as a measure of response to antiviral therapy of chronic hepatitis B. HLA class I antigen expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells was evaluated by flow cytometry in 21 HBeAg-positive patients with chronic hepatitis B. Measurements were made before, during or after treatment with recombinant interferon-alpha-2b, either given alone or after a 6 wk course of prednisone. Immunohistochemical staining for human leukocyte class I antigen was also evaluated in 28 percutaneous liver biopsy specimens either obtained before or after therapy (N = 27) and during therapy in one instance. The amount of HLA class I antigen on peripheral blood mononuclear cells varied markedly among individual patients, but the overall results indicated that the level of inducible antigen did not correlate with increments of ALT during therapy or with a virological response to therapy. Hepatocyte staining for HLA class I antigen was observed in a minority of biopsy specimens (29%) and also did not appear to predict a response or correlate with the severity of histological disease. These data do not support current theories concerning pathogenetic mechanisms in chronic hepatitis B nor do they suggest that spontaneous display of HLA class I antigen on hepatocytes or interferon-induced expression of these antigens on peripheral blood mononuclear cells is a critical determinant for a response to therapy. 
Malaria in an urban emergency department: epidemiology and diagnostic features of 25 cases. This article presents a retrospective study of 25 patients diagnosed with malaria in an urban emergency department (ED) between June 1986 and June 1989. The mean annual case rate of malaria in this study group was more than three times the national rate. This may be ascribed to the notable ethnic diversity of the population. A history of travel to an area endemic for malaria was eventually elicited from all patients. The most common chief complaint was fever (56%) followed by abdominal pain (12%). Temperatures were elevated in 70% of the patients, with a mean temperature of 102.9 degrees F (39 degrees C). Gender was found to play a role in delaying diagnosis, with women accounting for 83% of a group of patients requiring multiple ED visits before diagnosis. The authors conclude that malaria must be considered when diagnosing patients in ethnically diverse populations. Gender may be associated with a delay in diagnosis. A careful travel history and a peripheral smear are aids in rapid diagnosis. 
Hepatic interferon-alpha gene transcripts and products in liver specimens from acute and chronic hepatitis B virus infection. In this study we have examined the localization of interferon-alpha in liver tissue from acute and chronic hepatitis B virus carriers to establish whether the defect in interferon-alpha production reported in chronic hepatitis B virus infection is at a pretranscriptional or posttranscriptional level using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques. Interferon-alpha messenger RNA transcripts and the immunoreactive protein were abundant in liver tissue and in particular in hepatocytes from patients with acute hepatitis B virus infection who subsequently recovered. In contrast interferon-alpha polypeptide was present in a significantly lower number of sinusoidal cells, mononuclear cells and hepatocytes in chronic hepatitis B virus carriers. Although a high proportion of patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection had cells that expressed interferon-alpha messenger RNA transcripts, the number of such cells was significantly less than in acute hepatitis B virus infection, indicating that the defect in the hepatic interferon-alpha synthesis is at the level of gene activation. Furthermore, using double immunohistochemical staining, the number of hepatocytes containing HBcAg correlated inversely with the proportion of neighboring sinusoidal cells expressing interferon-alpha. These data support previous observations that interferon-alpha production is reduced in chronic hepatitis B virus infection and are consistent with the view that this cytokine is important in the clearance of the virus. 
Death by embolization of prosthetic aortic valve. This report describes a case in which a young woman died from embolization of her prosthetic aortic valve. The discussion includes the embolization's association with chronic intravenous narcotism, recurrent bacterial endocarditis, and acute cocaine toxicity. 
Flunarizine in migraine: a minireview. Flunarizine is a non-selective calcium antagonist. It distributes preferentially in the adipose tissue and passes the blood brain barrier. Numerous controlled clinical studies have established that flunarizine is efficacious in migraine prophylaxis, including double-blind studies in which the drug was compared with placebo or other antimigraine drugs. To avoid side effects a special schedule or administration is necessary. Flunarizine has no myogenic effect on smooth muscle cells of the vessles. It is said to be the only calcium antagonist able to protect brain cells against hypoxic damage. In addition, the considerable body of information which shows flunarizine capable of directly influencing the central nervous system, suggests that the drug's anti-migraine action may depend on its ability to influence central phenomena. 
A single-blind comparison of intravenous ondansetron, a selective serotonin antagonist, with intravenous metoclopramide in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy Ondansetron (GR 38032F), a selective antagonist of serotonin subtype 3 receptors, is effective in the prevention of emesis associated with cisplatin as well as other chemotherapeutic agents. In this randomized, single-blind, multicenter, parallel group study, we compared the efficacy and safety of intravenous (IV) ondansetron with IV metoclopramide in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with high-dose (greater than or equal to 100 mg/m2) cisplatin chemotherapy. Three hundred seven patients receiving their first dose of cisplatin, either alone or in combination with other antineoplastic agents, were randomized to receive ondansetron 0.15 mg/kg IV every 4 hours for three doses or metoclopramide 2 mg/kg IV every 2 hours for three doses, then every 3 hours for three additional doses. The study prohibited the concurrent administration of other antiemetics or dexamethasone. Patients receiving ondansetron had a higher rate of complete protection from emesis (40% v 30%, P = .07), a higher complete plus major response rate (65% v 51%, P = .016), a lower rate of failure (21% v 36%, P = .007), and a lower median number of emetic episodes (one v two, P = .005) than did those receiving metoclopramide. The median time to the first emetic episode was longer on ondansetron (20.5 v 4.3 hours, P less than .001). Adverse events occurred in 48% of patients receiving ondansetron and 69% of those receiving metoclopramide (P less than .001). Akathisia and acute dystonic reactions occurred only on metoclopramide; headache (controlled with acetaminophen) was significantly more frequent with ondansetron. Ondansetron is more effective, produces fewer adverse events, and is easier to administer than metoclopramide for the prevention of emesis associated with high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy. 
Thrombosis and thrombolysis in unstable angina. Pathophysiology of unstable angina involves spasm, plaque rupture, activation of platelets, and coagulation. The incidence and frequency of intracoronary thrombus formation are presently under active assessment in order to establish the potential benefit of thrombolytic therapy. A preliminary study was conducted in patients admitted in our coronary care unit for unstable angina with typical clinical and electrocardiographic criteria and with early coronary angiogram. After exclusion of 4 patients with left main coronary stenosis or contraindications for thrombolysis, 16 patients received thrombolytic infusion and 14 underwent a second coronary angiogram. Seven patients had an intracoronary thrombus (6 nonocclusive, 1 occlusive) and at the second angiogram only 3 nonocclusive thrombi were modified (1 disappeared, 2 were reduced). Moreover, the quantitative Coronary Angiography Analysis System (CAAS) in the 11 cases suitable for analysis did not show any significant changes, especially in the Ambrose type IIB lesions. In-hospital clinical outcome was not influenced by thrombolytic therapy (5 ischemic recurrences, 1 fatal myocardial infarction, 4 emergency and 4 elective revascularization procedures). This short series is in agreement with the literature data. Only one third of patients with active unstable angina remains refractory to conventional therapy. The transient benefit of thrombolysis is limited to patients with demonstrated intracoronary thrombi. Clinical or angiographic improvement are not always in correlation and until now do not seem able to prevent short-term recurrences or the need for revascularization procedures. 
Hypertension in obesity and NIDDM. Role of insulin and sympathetic nervous system. An important link exists between obesity, noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), and hypertension. Most patients with NIDDM are obese; the incidence of hypertension in obesity and NIDDM is substantial, approaching 50% in some studies. Furthermore, hypertension is known to contribute to the increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with obesity and NIDDM. Despite the obvious clinical importance, the pathogenesis of hypertension in obesity and NIDDM remains poorly understood. Recent studies have identified hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance as important threads that tie hypertension, obesity, and NIDDM together. The hypothesis is developed that insulin-mediated sympathetic stimulation contributes to blood pressure elevation in both obesity and NIDDM. Recruited as a mechanism to limit weight gain and restore energy balance, insulin resistance and sympathetic stimulation increase blood pressure by enhancing renal Na+ reabsorption and stimulating the cardiovascular system. In this article, we review the evidence on which this hypothesis is based. 
Intracranial arteriovenous fistula manifesting as progressive neurological deterioration in an infant: case report. This 1-year-old male infant had been diagnosed with cerebral degenerative disease because he developed psychomotor regression, and brain atrophy was demonstrated on computed tomography. He underwent magnetic resonance imaging, which suggested a cerebrovascular malformation. Cerebral angiography disclosed an arteriovenous fistula, fed by an anterior cerebral artery and directly draining into a cortical vein. The occlusion of the feeding artery was followed by a satisfactory recovery. The mechanism of the neurological symptoms in this patient is thought to be caused by a steal phenomenon and compression of the brain stem by venous engorgement in the posterior fossa. 
Low power laser biostimulation of chronic oro-facial pain. A double-blind placebo controlled cross-over study in 40 patients. The efficacy of low power laser stimulation in the treatment of chronic oro-facial pain conditions was investigated in a double-blind placebo controlled modified cross-over study in 40 patients. The laser was an invisible infrared (IR) diode laser with an emission at 904 nanometer (nm). Treatment effect was evaluated by means of VAS-scales and global assessment of pain. Outcome of treatment was correlated to changes in urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). The clinical impression was that placebo was superior to laser stimulation. No statistically significant difference between the analgesic effect of the laser and placebo irradiation was found on VAS-scales. A significant (P = 0.05) increase in 5-HIAA excretion was found in the placebo group. It is concluded that the possibility of a substantial placebo response should be taken into consideration using 904 nm (IR) lasers for pain treatment in patients with this type of chronic oro-facial pain. 
Colonic epithelial dysplasia or carcinoma in a regional group of patients with ulcerative colitis of more than 15 years duration. Colonoscopic screening for neoplasia was performed in a regional group of ulcerative colitis patients with a disease duration of greater than or equal to 15 years. A total of 121 patients, aged less than 80 years, were invited to participate, of whom 100 (83%) accepted colonoscopy, including biopsies in 15 standard locations of the entire colon, plus additional biopsies from all visible lesions. Unequivocal dysplasia was found in one patient with extensive colitis and a disease duration of 31 years. A polyp with highly differentiated adenocarcinoma was found in the sigmoid colon of a patient with intermittent rectum involvement, 37 years after the ulcerative colitis diagnosis had been made. Biopsy specimens from the remaining 98 patients showed no signs of dysplasia or cancer. Thus the frequency of pre-malignant or malignant changes is very low compared with the results of similar studies, and the rationale for general colonoscopic surveillance programmes for such patients is open to question. 
Important melanocytic lesions in childhood and adolescence. Melanocytic nevi are common in children and adolescents, and the preponderance of these lesions are benign. Congenital melanocytic nevi, dysplastic nevi, and large numbers of common acquired nevi, however, may indicate an increased risk of malignant melanoma. With the exception, possibly, of giant congenital nevi, melanoma associated with these lesions generally occurs in adulthood. Nonetheless, some patients can be identified as being at increased risk for the development of melanoma during childhood. The poor prognosis associated with advanced melanoma and the curability of early lesions underscore the importance of prompt recognition of melanoma when it does occur in children. Furthermore, physicians who care for children are in a key position to decrease risk of melanoma throughout the lifespan by encouraging avoidance of excessive sun exposure during childhood. 
Subcutaneous metoclopramide in the treatment of symptomatic gastroparesis: clinical efficacy and pharmacokinetics. We investigated the safety and efficacy of short-term s.c. administration of metoclopramide in the treatment of symptomatic gastric stasis. Ten patients with gastroparesis, documented by abnormal solid phase radionuclide gastric emptying study, were treated with 10 mg (2 ml) of s.c. metoclopramide every 6 hr for 3 days. Patients gave themselves the injections as outpatients. Questionnaires were then completed concerning symptom relief, local side effects and adverse reactions. A repeat gastric emptying study was obtained immediately after the last dose of metoclopramide. Serum metoclopramide concentrations were obtained at trough, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 hr postadministration and serum prolactin levels at trough, 1 and 3 hr. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed mean peak metoclopramide concentration at 30 min of 99.7 +/- 47.1 ng/ml with measured levels of 93.9 +/- 106.83 ng/ml at 60 min and return to trough values by 4 hr; trough prolactins remained elevated above normal values. Gastric stasis improved from a base-line retention of 78.7% of radioisotope at 2 hr to 72.5% after 3 days of therapy (P = .65). Eight patients reported significant improvement in symptomology and two patients reported lessening of symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, bloating, abdominal pain, heartburn and vomiting. The side effects were minimal and did not interfere with completion of the protocol. We demonstrated that s.c. administration of metoclopramide was well accepted by patients and resulted in subjective and objective improvement of gastric stasis. In addition, serum metoclopramide concentrations were comparable with other parenteral routes of administration. Furthermore, serum prolactin levels may provide both a bioassay of efficacy and a marker for monitoring compliance. 
Differential enhancement of interferon-gamma-induced MHC class II expression of HEp-2 cells by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) induces the expression of MHC class II antigens on non-lymphoid cells. In this study we investigated the effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3), the most active metabolite of vitamin D3, on the IFN-gamma-induced expression of MHC class II antigens on HEp-2 cells. We found that 1,25(OH)2D3 enhanced the IFN-gamma-induced expression of HLA-DR on these cells. Differential effects on the MHC class II antigens HLA-DR, -DQ and -DP were also observed. 
Reoperations for late complications following abdominal aortic operation. Fifty patients were identified who, following abdominal aortic operation, developed late complications affecting the vascular graft or endarterectomy and who underwent their first reoperation between 1979 and 1989. Thrombosis was the commonest complication affecting 28 (56 per cent) patients, followed by false aneurysm in 11 (22 per cent), enteric fistula in nine (18 per cent) and graft infection in two (4 per cent). The 30-day mortality rate for reoperation was 8 per cent; longer follow-up revealed mortality rates of 22, 50 and 63 per cent at 1, 3 and 5 years respectively. Thirty-four complications required reoperation within 5 years of the original surgery. Reoperation was needed for 35 patients whose original pathology was occlusive disease and for 15 whose original pathology was aneurysm. The nature of the complication was related to initial pathology; thrombosis was far commoner in those with occlusive disease, and enteric fistula and false aneurysm were commoner in those with aneurysmal disease. 
Serial antiarrhythmic drug treatment to maintain sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion for chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. The sequential use of different types of antiarrhythmic drugs may improve arrhythmia prognosis in chronic atrial fibrillation or flutter after successful electrical cardioversion. The rationale for serial treatment is that the arrhythmogenic mechanism may vary between patients, leading to different responses to 1 specific drug. To investigate this issue prospectively, 127 patients having chronic fibrillation or flutter exclusively, underwent serial drug treatment with flecainide (stage I) followed by sotalol or, if contraindicated, quinidine (stage II) and eventually amiodarone (stage III). Stages II and III were entered after electrical recardioversion for a recurrence during stages I or II, respectively. Calculated on an actuarial basis, the 2-year cumulative percentage of patients free of the arrhythmia increased from 31% after stage I to 63% at the end of serial treatment. To reach this result, a mean of 1.8 +/- 0.8 cardioversions per patient were needed, with 53 patients progressing to stage II and 34 to stage III. Sixteen patients stopped serial treatment prematurely and 15 patients were considered to have intractable atrial fibrillation at the end of stage III. Incidence of proarrhythmia was low. Multivariate analysis disclosed that an older age, in combination with a large number of previous episodes of arrhythmia, a long previous duration of arrhythmia and presence of mitral valve disease, were predictive for medical refractoriness during serial treatment. It is concluded that serial treatment may improve arrhythmia prognosis in atrial fibrillation or flutter, with an acceptable incidence of proarrhythmic events. 
Correlation between molecular and clinical events in the evolution of chronic myelocytic leukemia to blast crisis. A patient with typical Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1)-positive chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) was studied during sequential phases of disease: (1) initial chronic phase; (2) myeloid blast crisis; (3) second chronic phase; and (4) accelerated disease. A point mutation in the coding sequence of the p53 gene first appeared concomitantly with the blast crisis and then disappeared with the re-establishment of a second chronic phase. The chromosomal concomitant of the molecular alteration was a deletion of 17p. These observations suggest that abnormalities of the p53 anti-oncogene are temporally related to the clinical progression of some cases of CML and are probably responsible for the development of blast crisis in these cases. 
Correlation of radiologic assessment of lumbar spine fusions with surgical exploration. Although inspection of posterolateral lumbar fusion is the best method of determining its solidity, routine exploration of the fusion is somewhat impractical because of the morbidity and expense involved. Removal of internal fixation devices or implantable batteries or reoperation for failed back surgery enabled the exploration and assessment of lumbar spine fusions in 214 operations on 175 patients. The preoperative radiologic assessment (plain roentgenographs, polytomography, bending films, and computed tomographic scans) were correlated with surgical findings. This study indicated a significant percentage of inaccuracy of all radiologic modalities used. Noncorrelations were present in 36% of plain roentgenographs, 41% of polytomograms, 38% of bending films, and 43% of computed tomographic scans. Radiologic inaccuracy was manifest on both the positive and negative sides. Computed tomographic scanning presented the lowest percentage of inaccuracy (22%) and bending films the highest percentage (27%). Based on these findings, there exists the need for more accurate noninvasive methods to determine the solidity of spine fusions. 
Cervicocranial arterial dissection. Dissection of the cervicocranial arteries is becoming more frequently recognized as a cause of neurological disorders. Typical clinical features seen with dissection include unilateral headache, oculosympathetic palsy, amaurosis fugax, and symptoms of focal brain ischemia. The diagnosis of carotid or intracranial dissection is usually best confirmed by angiography, although magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography have been shown to visualize intimal dissection. The prognosis in cases of spontaneous dissection is generally benign unless the initial manifestation involves infarction with substantial deficit. The best approach to treatment appears to be the administration of the anticoagulant, heparin, followed by warfarin or antiplatelet therapy. Surgical intervention is reserved for cases of progressive or recurrent ischemic complication that occurs despite the administration of adequate doses of anticoagulants. 
Cholelithiasis after treatment for childhood cancer. The authors evaluated the risk of development of cholelithiasis in 6050 patients treated at a single hospital for various childhood cancers with different therapeutic modalities, including chemotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, and bone marrow transplantation, from 1963 to 1989. Patients with underlying chronic hemolytic anemia or preexisting gallstones were excluded. Nine female and seven male patients with a median age of 12.4 years (range, 1.2 to 22.8 years) at diagnosis of primary cancer had gallstones develop 3 months to 17.3 years (median, 3.1 years) after therapy was initiated. Cumulative risks of 0.42% at 10 years and 1.03% at 18 years after diagnosis substantially exceed those reported for the general population of this age group. Treatment-related factors significantly associated with an increased risk of cholelithiasis were ileal conduit, parenteral nutrition, abdominal surgery, and abdominal radiation therapy (relative risks and 95% confidence intervals = 61.6 [27.9-135.9], 23.0 [9.8-54.1], 15.1 [7.1-32.2], and 7.4 [3.2-17.0], respectively). There was no correlation with the type of cancer, nor was the frequency of conventional predisposing features (e.g., family history, obesity, use of oral contraceptives, and pregnancy) any higher among the affected patients in this study than in the general population. Patients with cancer who have risk factors identified here should be monitored for the development of gallstones. 
Comparison between anal endosonography and digital examination in the evaluation of anal fistulae. A prospective trial was performed comparing the accuracy of digital examination and anal endosonography in defining the anatomy of anal fistulae. Before operation 38 consecutive patients were assessed by the consultant in charge of the case, by a research fellow and by anal endosonography involving two radiologists. These findings were compared with the operative findings. Consultants correctly identified 26 of 33 internal openings, 29 of 34 primary tracks and 15 of 21 secondary tracks. The research fellow correctly identified 26 internal openings, 24 primary tracks and 10 secondary tracks. There was no significant difference between the accuracy of consultants and the research fellow. Anal endosonography identified 10 internal openings based on initial criteria. This rose to 24 when revised ultrasonographic criteria were applied. There was no statistical difference between consultant assessment and anal ultrasonography in correctly identifying intersphincteric and transphincteric tracks. Ultrasonography is unable to assess primary superficial, suprasphincteric and extrasphincteric tracks or secondary supralevator and infralevator tracks. Consultant assessment of secondary supralevator and infralevator tracks was correct in 78 per cent of cases. 
Towards a less costly but accurate test of gastric emptying and small bowel transit. Our aim is to develop a less costly but accurate test of stomach emptying and small bowel transit by utilizing selected scintigraphic observations 1-6 hr after ingestion of a radiolabeled solid meal. These selected data were compared with more detailed analyses that require multiple scans and labor-intensive technical support. A logistic discriminant analysis was used to estimate the sensitivity and specificity of selected summaries of scintigraphic transit measurements. We studied 14 patients with motility disorders (eight neuropathic and six myopathic, confirmed by standard gastrointestinal manometry) and 37 healthy subjects. The patient group had abnormal gastric emptying (GE) and small bowel transit time (SBTT). The proportion of radiolabel retained in the stomach from 2 to 4 hr (GE 2 hr, GE 3 hr, GE 4 hr), as well as the proportion filling the colon at 4 and 6 hr (CF 4 hr, CF 6 hr) were individually able to differentiate health from disease (P less than 0.05 for each). From the logistic discriminant model, an estimated sensitivity of 93% resulted in similar specificities for detailed and selected transit parameters for gastric emptying (range: 62-70%). Similarly, combining selected observations, such as GE 4 hr with CF 6 hr, had a specificity of 76%, which was similar to the specificity of combinations of more detailed analyses. Based on the present studies and future confirmation in a larger number of patients, including those with less severe motility disorders, the 2-, 4-, and 6-hr scans with quantitation of proportions of counts in stomach and colon should provide a useful, relatively inexpensive strategy to identify and monitor motility disorders in clinical and epidemiologic studies. 
Medulloblastoma: freedom from relapse longer than 8 years--a therapeutic cure? Seventy-seven patients presenting with medulloblastoma between 1958 and 1986 were treated at Stanford University Medical Center and studied retrospectively. Multimodality therapy utilized surgical extirpation followed by megavoltage irradiation. In 15 cases chemotherapy was used as adjunctive treatment. The 10- and 15-year actuarial survival rates were both 41% with an 18-year maximum follow-up period (median 4.75 years). There were no treatment failures after 8 years of tumor-free survival. Gross total removal of tumor was achieved in 22 patients (32%); the surgical mortality rate was 3.9%. No significant difference was noted in the incidence of metastatic disease between shunted and nonshunted patients. The classical form of medulloblastoma was present in 67% of cases while the desmoplastic subtype was found in 16%. Survival rates were best for patients presenting after 1970, for those with desmoplastic tumors, and for patients receiving high-dose irradiation (greater than or equal to 5000 cGy) to the posterior fossa. Although early data on freedom from relapse suggested a possible beneficial effect from chemotherapy, long-term follow-up results showed no advantage from this modality of treatment. The patterns of relapse and survival were examined; 64% of relapses occurred within the central nervous system, and Collins' rule was applicable in 83% of cases beyond the period of risk. Although patients treated for recurrent disease could be palliated, none were long-term survivors. The study data indicate that freedom from relapse beyond 8 years from diagnosis can be considered as a cure in this disease. Long-term follow-up monitoring is essential to determine efficacy of treatment and to assess survival patterns accurately. 
Locally advanced paranasal sinus and nasopharynx tumors treated with hyperfractionated radiation and concomitant infusion cisplatin. Fourteen patients with paranasal sinus complex and nasopharynx tumors were treated at State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn (Brooklyn, NY) with a regimen of split-course hyperfractionated radiation (120 cGy/fraction) and concomitant cisplatin infusion (5 to 7 mg/m2/24 hours). All of the patients had T4 tumors or massively recurrent disease with base of skull or facial bone involvement. Twelve patients were treated with curative intent receiving total doses of 6000 to 6960 cGy (modal 6750 cGy), whereas two patients were treated with less than 5000 cGy as palliation. Eleven of the 12 patients (92%) achieved a complete response, and 7 of 12 (58%) are alive at 35 to 72 months (mean, 47 months). Five patients are alive with no evidence of disease, and two with a local recurrence. Three patients died of distant disease, and two died from a local recurrence. When the response to treatment was analyzed based on tumor volume and radiation dose, only two of nine lesions measuring between 4 to 10 cm failed locally. The two palliative patients had almost complete local clearance of the disease but died at 2 and 8 months, respectively. In nine patients, the eye or optic nerve was included in the treatment field and received between 2000 to 6960 cGy. Only one of these nine patients had ophthalmic complication and this was confined to the cornea. 
Iloprost attenuates the increased permeability in skeletal muscle after ischemia and reperfusion. Increased vascular permeability is an early and sensitive indicator of ischemic muscle injury, occurring before significant histologic or radionuclide changes are evident. We investigated the effect of iloprost, a stable prostacyclin analog, on microvascular permeability in a rat striated muscle model. In six control and six experimental animals the cremaster muscle was dissected, placed in a closed-flow acrylic chamber, and suffused with a bicarbonate buffer solution. Dextran labeled with fluorescein was injected intravenously as a macromolecular tracer, and microvascular permeability was determined on the basis of clearance of the fluorescent tracer. Two hours of ischemia were followed by 2 hours of reperfusion. In the experimental group iloprost (0.5 microgram/kg/min) was given in a continuous intravenous infusion. Microvascular permeability increased significantly during reperfusion in both control and experimental animals (p less than 0.0001). Treatment with iloprost, however, significantly attenuated this response compared to the control group, 4.8 +/- 0.3 versus 7.3 +/- 0.5 microliters/gm/min, respectively (p less than 0.0001). Iloprost decreases the rise in vascular permeability after ischemia and reperfusion. Experimental clinical use of iloprost under controlled conditions in the treatment of patients with acute skeletal muscle ischemia appears justified. 
Exercise training and coronary collateral circulation. This review examines the potential for an exercise-induced increase in coronary collateral circulation, with specific reference to the role and functional significance of collateral vessels, highlighting animal and human studies in particular, and their inherent methodological limitations. Exercise training may enhance myocardial oxygen supply by promoting transient periods of myocardial ischemia, a potent trigger of collateral growth. Some human studies have shown that moderate-to-high intensity training can result in a higher double product at the onset of angina and/or ischemic ST-segment depression, suggesting that myocardial oxygen supply has increased. Attempts to use thallium-201 exercise scintigraphy to assess myocardial perfusion before and after a physical training program have produced conflicting data, whereas angiographic studies in group trials have, without exception, yielded disappointing results. Thus, direct evidence that exercise stimulates collateralization in humans is lacking. 
Detection of human papillomavirus DNA in cancer of the urinary bladder by in situ hybridisation. The association of the human papillomavirus (HPV) with cancer of the urinary bladder was assessed by in situ hybridisation using probes selective for HPV types 6/11 and 16/18 DNA. No hybridisation signal was detected with the type 6/11 probe on 100 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded bladder tumours sampled. However, when the same samples were hybridised with the HPV type 16/18 DNA probe, 11 of 66 (16.6%) papillary and 1 of 10 (10%) solid transitional cell carcinomas gave positive signals. These results suggest the involvement of HPV in cancer of the bladder, although the frequency of multiple HPV types in these tumours is uncertain. 
Erythroleukemia in a child associated with monosomy 7. A case of erythroleukemia (EL) associated with monosomy 7 is reported. The EL was diagnosed 20 months after the initial diagnosis of monosomy 7 was made. An immunologic study of the blast cells using a monoclonal antibody was positive for glycophorin A, which suggested that they were of erythroid origin; this was confirmed by electron microscopy. Chemotherapy was started with low dose cytarabine. However, the patient had severe bone marrow suppression and died of pneumonia. Our case shows that monosomy 7 is an abnormality of the pluripotential stem cells, including erythroid cells, that resulted in a true erythroid neoplasm. 
Hypertension associated with increased renin concentrations in nephroblastoma. An infant with severe hypertension who had a nephroblastoma which was secreting active renin is described. Nephroblastoma must be included in the differential diagnosis of hypertension associated with increased renin concentrations, even in the absence of an abdominal mass. 
Differential hemodynamic effects and tolerance properties of nitroglycerin and an S-nitrosothiol in experimental heart failure. S-nitrosothiols are potent in vitro vasodilators, but little is known about their in vivo action. In this study, we compared the effects of S-nitroso N-acetyl penicillamine (SNAP) and nitroglycerin (NTG) on left ventricular (LV) hemodynamics in congestive heart failure rats. By using a twoday crossover design, stepwise i.v. infusions of SNAP or NTG at 3, 5 and 8 micrograms/min were administered for 30 min each, followed by a dose of 10 micrograms/min over the next 10 h. LV end-diastolic and peak-systolic pressures (LVEDP and LVPSP, respectively) were measured at selected intervals. SNAP and NTG produced maximal LVEDP reductions of 46 and 44%, respectively, at the highest infusion rate. However, at the lower doses, greater reductions of LVEDP were seen with SNAP. NTG had a smaller effect on LVPSP (maximum 6% reduction) than SNAP (maximum reduction of 15%). During the 10-h infusion of NTG, LVEDP gradually returned to base-line values, indicating the development of tolerance, despite relatively constant plasma levels of NTG over the infusion period. Tolerance in LVEDP effects was not observed during the 10-h infusion of SNAP. In the presence of NTG tolerance, rats were still responsive to SNAP (mean reduction of LVEDP 24%), suggesting the absence of cross-tolerance between these two nitrovasodilators. These results suggest that SNAP is a more potent in vivo vasodilator than NTG, has more arterial action than NTG and is less prone to produce LV hemodynamic tolerance. 
Pattern of arterial involvement of the head, neck, and eyes in giant cell arteritis: three case reports. The findings of two post-mortem examinations and one CT scan of patients with biopsy proved giant cell arteritis (GCA) are presented. The presence or absence of intracranial involvement in GCA is discussed. 
Coronary artery aneurysms--a case study and literature review. Coronary artery aneurysms are detected with increasing frequency owing to the advent of coronary angiographies. Although most patients with coronary artery aneurysms are asymptomatic, manifestations of myocardial ischemia may occur. The case described herein serves as a basis for a discussion of the pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, detection, and treatment of coronary artery aneurysms. 
Hypercalcemia of advanced malignancy: decision making and the quality of death. Hypercalcemia is a common complication of certain advanced malignancies and although not therapeutically difficult, its presence raises complex ethical issues. Treatment of this condition is most easily justified when the patient is not terminal, the benefits are tangible, and the patient agrees with therapy. Withholding treatment is defensible medically, legally, and morally when a terminal situation is present, when drawbacks exceed the benefits, and when an informed patient declines therapy. Hypercalcemia is one of a number of conditions of dying that can be controlled by the physician. The physician's decision to treat such a condition, in part, depends upon his or her view of a good death. Further study is needed to clarify and avoid those situations of dying which involve suffering. Physicians must begin this difficult analysis and dialogue if they are to fulfill their obligation to minimize suffering in all patients. 
Persistent neurotoxicity of systemically administered interferon-alpha. Fourteen cancer patients had evidence of persistent neurotoxicity of interferon-alpha therapy long after their treatment was discontinued. Although most of the cognitive symptoms were mild to moderate in severity, they were incapacitating to these individuals in their usual work. The neuropsychological test abnormalities were not attributable to subsequent therapy, disease status, or other medical problems. The pattern of deficits was consistent with frontal-subcortical dysfunction. Of the four patients who had follow-up assessment, two had improved and two had deteriorated. These findings suggest that in some cases interferon neurotoxicity is not reversible. 
'Medial maxillectomy' for lateral nasal wall neoplasms. Lateral rhinotomy and "medial maxillectomy," an en bloc resection of the medial maxillary sinus, ethmoid sinus with the lamina papyracea, medial orbital floor, and lacrimal fossa-duct, have been advocated for lateral nasal wall neoplasma. Experience with 35 (of 41) patients followed up at least 30 months (median, 57 months) postoperatively is reported. There was a 9% recurrence for benign tumors and 15% for malignant neoplasms, the latter only in the patients with nonmelanoma malignant neoplasms not receiving postoperative radiotherapy. The most frequent complications were cavity crusting, epicanthal scarring, and epiphora. 
Dementia: case ascertainment in a community survey. The three-stage East Baltimore Mental Health Survey, conducted in 1981 as part of the Epidemiological Catchment Area Program, provided an opportunity to assess the prevalence of dementia and specific dementing disorders in a community-based, cross-sectional sample of the population. From the 3,841 households originally sampled, 810 individuals were selected for clinical psychiatric evaluation. Forty-one individuals were given a provisional diagnosis and referred to Stage 3 for differential diagnosis, with 32 individuals completing this evaluation. Thorough clinical evaluation of these cases resulted in an overall prevalence of dementia of 4.5% in those 65 years of age and older. The prevalence of specific dementing disorders was Alzheimer's disease (AD) (2.0%), Multi-Infarct Dementia (MID) (2.0%) and Mixed Dementia (MD) (0.5%). Prevalence increased with age for all dementias: Non-Whites had higher rates of dementia than Whites; females had higher rates of AD while males had higher rates of MID; and the prevalence of AD increased with increasing education, whereas the prevalence of MID decreased with increased education. Although this study includes only a small number of cases, necessitating some caution in interpreting the results, these figures do represent an estimate of the prevalence of severe dementing disorders and provide a basis for further community study. 
Papular mucinosis in L-tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Five patients with the L-tryptophan-related eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome had a generalized eruption of flesh-colored papules. In all patients, histologic examination revealed a focal accumulation of mucin in the upper mid dermis, associated with increased dermal cellularity. The mucin was composed predominantly of hyaluronic acid, with small amounts of sulfated acid mucopolysaccharides. The cells within the lesion were fibroblasts. The lesions slowly regressed after L-tryptophan was discontinued. Proposed explanations for the L-tryptophan-related eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome have centered on contaminants, chemically related to L-tryptophan, introduced in the manufacturing process. Tryptophan metabolites have been linked with sclerotic cutaneous diseases but have not been previously implicated in cutaneous mucinoses. 
Fludarabine: a review. The new fluorinated adenine analog, fludarabine, has been tested for efficacy in many tumor types over the past ten years. Two other similar nucleoside analogs are currently available for commercial use. Cytarabine is used principally as an antileukemic agent, and vidarabine as an antiviral. Unlike vidarabine, fludarabine is resistant to deactivation by adenosine deaminase. Data from Phase I and II trials suggest that fludarabine is potentially effective in a number of leukemias, including acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute nonlymphocytic leukemia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Unfortunately, the doses required to achieve adequate response in the acute leukemias (greater than 75 mg/m2) were above the maximum tolerated dose, resulting in intolerable granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and a life-threatening neurotoxic syndrome. In CLL: however, the dose required to achieve a satisfactory response is well within tolerated limits. Long-term survival statistics are not yet available, but historical perspective strongly correlates response to other agents with increased survival times. Toxicities seen at dose regimens of 15-40 mg/m2/d for five consecutive days include somnolence, metabolic acidosis, confusion, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, increase in serum creatinine and aminotransferase concentrations, and pulmonary and hepatic abnormalities. Mild to severe hematologic toxicity has been observed at all dose levels. 
Endovascular treatment of intracerebral arteriovenous malformations: experience in 49 cases. The authors report the results of treatment in 49 consecutive patients with brain arteriovenous malformations (AVM's) who underwent therapeutic embolization with liquid adhesive agents between 1984 and 1988 at the Toronto Western Hospital. Thirty-three patients had no other treatment and were followed up with angiography at 2 years and clinically from 2 to 6 years. Of the other 16 patients, 10 had adjunctive radiosurgery and six underwent surgical resection following embolization. Seven (14%) of the 49 patients had a morphological cure effected by embolization as evidenced on their 2-year follow-up angiograms: these have remained clinically stable. Twelve patients developed neurological deficits after embolization; eight (16% of the series) were transient and four (8%) were permanent. Two patients (4%) had a delayed hemorrhage after incomplete obliteration of their malformations. Endovascular treatment resulted in clinical improvement in 15 (33%) of the other 46 patients. None of the patients who initially presented with hemorrhage had a rebleed following embolization. It is concluded that endovascular treatment with liquid embolic material can be an integral part of the multidisciplinary treatment protocol for patients with brain AVM's. 
Upper gastrointestinal lesions in elderly patients presenting for endoscopy: relevance of NSAID usage. The occurrence of upper gastrointestinal disease and the relevance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) usage were documented in 511 consecutive patients (321 women, 190 men) over 70 yr old, referred for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy in a district general hospital. The findings were benign esophageal disease (43%), normal (15%), gastric ulcer (11.5%), and duodenal ulcer (11%). Gastric ulcers were more common in women taking NSAIDs (25%) than in NSAID abstainers (7%) p less than 0.001 and male NSAID users (8%) p less than 0.001. Esophagitis and esophageal stricture were not influenced by NSAID usage, but gastric erosions were more common (10% vs. 3%) p less than 0.01. Of 142 patients receiving NSAIDs, 41% presented with hemorrhage, compared with 20.5% of NSAID abstainers (p less than 0.001). Hemorrhage was as common in aspirin takers (15 of 33, 45%) as in standard-dose NANSAID takers (43 of 109, 39%), even though 86% were taking 300 mg of aspirin per day or less. In elderly patients, esophageal disease is common. NSAID use, even low-dose aspirin, is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage. In females, NSAID usage is associated with gastric ulcer. 
Comparison of restorative proctocolectomy with and without covering ileostomy in ulcerative colitis. The experience of restorative proctocolectomy for ulcerative colitis is reported in 16 consecutive patients with no covering ileostomy (group 2) in comparison with 15 patients with a covering stoma (group 1); in each group a J pouch was constructed. All patients had pre- and postoperative clinical and manometric evaluations of the functional result up to 12 months. There were no deaths or permanent failures. The number of early complications was four in each group. Re-ileostomy was needed in one patient of group 1, and an ileostomy was constructed in three patients of group 2. At 1 year after operation the functional results did not differ between groups 1 and 2 in terms of daily frequency of defaecation (mean 5.6 and 5.4 in 24 h respectively), or in terms of anal basal or maximal squeeze pressures. There was a significant (P less than 0.01) saving in total hospital stay (median 11 days) and in operating theatre time (mean 41 min) in patients with no covering ileostomy. It is concluded that a covering ileostomy may be unnecessary in restorative proctocolectomy, at least in suitable cases with no technical difficulty at the time of operation. 
Characterization of severely and profoundly hearing impaired adults attending an audiology clinic. Despite the fact that around 12 per cent of adult patients attending an audiology department will be severely hearing impaired (pure tone averages of 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz of 70 dB HL or worse in the better hearing ear), their clinical and audiometric characteristics have not been well documented. These characteristics were collected prospectively in 132 adult patients attending a Severe Impairment Clinic, set up to manage their specific problems. The inability to provide sufficient masking makes audiometric assessment of the severity of the impairment uncertain in the poorer hearing ear in 52 per cent of these patients. In addition, the limited bone conduction output makes it almost invariably impossible to assess the masked bone conduction thresholds and hence the air-bone gap in the poorer ear. Hence, accurate characterization is only practical of the better hearing ear in such patients. In 67 per cent of the better hearing ears, there was a mixed hearing impairment, the air-bone gap being 20 dB or greater. The aetiology of the conductive component was almost equally otosclerosis and chronic otitis media. In only 19 per cent was the impairment of a pure sensorineural type, broken down as 6 per cent congenitally acquired, 5 per cent due to meningitis and 9 per cent being adult in onset. In the remaining 14 per cent of patients the type of impairment could not be classified as the bone conductive thresholds were off scale. Having had experience of managing these patients at a special clinic and knowing the workload involved, it is argued that consideration be given to setting up such clinics in most departments. 
Agglutination of blood cardioplegia by cold-reacting autoantibodies. Cold-reacting autoantibodies occasionally occur in patients requiring cardiac operations. This report describes the clinical course of 1 patient with cold-reacting autoantibodies and intracoronary agglutination of the blood cardioplegia solution. Observations made in vivo and in vitro are considered in discussing recommendations for the management of extracorporeal circulation and cardioplegic arrest in patients with clinically silent cold-reacting autoantibodies. 
Toward an integrated understanding of fibromyalgia syndrome. I. Medical and pathophysiological aspects. Fibromyalgia syndrome (FS) is a chronic pain disorder characterized by diffuse musculoskeletal soreness, stiffness, non-restorative sleep and psychological disturbance. At present, much about the etiology, pathological mechanisms and course of FS are unknown. Indeed, standardized diagnostic criteria have only been recently agreed upon. The present paper is the first of a two-part series which reviews the extant empirical literature concerning FS, with a view to arriving at an integrated understanding of the syndrome. The present paper describes the clinical presentation of FS and historical conceptualizations of the disorder. Available research on pathophysiological mechanisms in FS is then presented. In this section we have included literature concerning histology of muscle, sleep architecture, neurotransmitter anomalies and neuropeptide involvement in FS symptomatology. 
Peripheral ameloblastoma: a clinical and histologic study of 11 cases. Peripheral ameloblastoma (PA) is a rare odontogenic tumor. Previously, only 39 cases of PA had been reported in the English literature. In this article 11 additional cases of PA are presented. Concordance with previous cases was evident with regard to race, clinical appearance, and site of predilection. However, differences were observed with regard to age, sex distribution, and predominant histologic pattern. The average age in the current cases is younger, there is no male bias, and the most common histologic pattern is plexiform rather than follicular or acanthomatous. Recurrence following simple excision is rare, but has been reported. Long-term postoperative follow-up is recommended. 
Primary breast lymphoma. Primary breast lymphoma (PBL) is a rare tumor of the breast. Three cases of PBL are being described. All three cases achieved remission following biopsy, chemotherapy, and/or radiotherapy. The literature is extensively reviewed with emphasis on true incidence of PBL and survival rates. 
High-attenuation mediastinal masses on unenhanced CT. On unenhanced CT scans, a variety of mediastinal masses contain areas with attenuation values higher than the attenuation value of the chest wall musculature. The increased attenuation may be diffuse or focal and may be a result of calcium deposition, high iodine content, or areas of acute hemorrhage. This report illustrates the gamut of high-attenuation mediastinal masses seen on unenhanced CT. Masses that are of high attenuation only on IV contrast-enhanced images (e.g., aberrant vessels) are not included. 
Subeschar tissue fluid: a source of cell-mediated immune suppression in victims of severe thermal injury. Thermal injury results in pronounced physiologic alterations in microcirculation at the site of tissue damage. The consequence of these changes is an increase in microvascular permeability, leading to the accumulation of tissue edema, or subeschar tissue fluid (STF). One of the adverse properties of edema is its capacity in vitro to inhibit cell-mediated immune function. Since previous studies evaluated STF collected 5 to 7 days after thermal injury, the present study was designed to determine the time frame during which STF demonstrates its immune suppressive nature. Seven patients with severe thermal injury (30% to 100% total body surface area) were entered into the study. STF was collected in serial fashion, beginning as early as 9 hours after injury and continuing until fascial excision or patient death (maximum of 139 hours after injury). The addition of STF to cultures of lymphocytes obtained from healthy donors resulted in complete inhibition of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation (MILP). Serum collected concomitantly from this group of patients was also capable of inhibiting MILP. From its inception, STF possesses the ability to inhibit MILP; this suppressive nature is stable, persisting for prolonged periods of time. The gradual absorption of STF likely contributes to the serologic evidence of cell-mediated immune suppression documented in victims of severe thermal injury. 
Protooncogenes and growth factors associated with normal and abnormal liver growth. Hepatocyte replication during liver regeneration depends on extrinsic (circulating) and intrinsic (intrahepatic) factors. Two important growth factors produced in the regenerating liver are discussed, TGF alpha, an autocrine, stimulatory growth factor, and TGF beta, a paracrine inhibitory factor. The balance between the activities of these factors is likely to play an important role in regulating hepatocyte proliferation. The expression of some protooncogenes occurs sequentially during the first few hours after partial hepatectomy and is a marker for the entry of hepatocytes into the cell cycle (proliferative competence). As hepatocytes become competent to proliferate, they respond to TGF alpha and other growth factors and enter a proliferative phase. It is possible that TGF beta 1 serves as a stop signal for liver regeneration but the mechanisms by which TGF beta inhibits hepatocyte DNA synthesis are still unknown. 
Relation of psychopathology in general medical inpatients to use and cost of services. The authors investigated the relation between psychopathology in medically ill inpatients and use and cost of medical care services. Of 455 medical inpatients, the Medical Inpatient Screening Test identified 27.9% as very depressed, 27.5% as very anxious, 20.2% as having cognitive dysfunction, and 8.6% as having high pain levels. Overall, the test identified 51% of the patients as having high levels of psychopathology or pain. These subjects had a 40% longer median length of hospital stay and 35% greater mean hospital costs than those with low levels of psychopathology or pain. Patients with greater psychopathology also had higher hospital charges, more procedures during hospitalization, and more discharge diagnoses but did not differ from the other patients in sex, race, age, diagnosis-related group (DRG) major diagnostic category, or DRG weight. 
Enhancement of pulsed-dye laser ablation of arterial tissues with blood medium: effects of laser-induced shock waves. The influence of blood medium on tissue ablation by a pulsed dye laser and its selectivity for atheroma were investigated. The role of shock waves on tissue ablation was also evaluated. Normal and atherosclerotic human aortas were irradiated by a 480 nm pulsed dye laser activated at 5 Hz. The laser was coupled with a single 0.2 mm fiber (Uni-guide) (40 mjoules/pulse) or a multifiber catheter (14 x 150 microns) (100 mjoules/pulse). Shock waves were measured using a fluid-filled catheter connected to a strain gauge manometer. With the Uni-guide, pulse-dye lasing resulted in greater ablation of atheroma in blood (11.6 x 10(-3) mm3/joule, p less than 0.001 versus atheroma measured in saline and normal tissue in blood) followed by normal tissue in blood (2.5 x 10(-3)mm3/joule), atheroma in saline (1.71 x 10(-3)mm3/joule, p less than 0.05 versus normal tissue in saline), and normal tissue in saline (0.54 x 10(-3) mm3/joule). With the multifiber catheter, laser ablation was the greatest in atheroma in blood (0.55 +/- 0.26 mm3/joule p less than 0.001 versus atheroma in saline and normal tissue in blood), followed by normal tissue in blood (0.27 +/- 0.12 mm3/joule), atheroma in saline (0.14 +/- 0.15 mm3/joule, p less than 0.001 versus normal tissue in saline), and normal tissue in saline (0 mm3/joule). The ablation efficiency of the multifiber catheter was greater than that of the Uni-guide (p less than 0.0001). 
Isolated incisional metastases after intraperitoneal radioactive chromic phosphate therapy for ovarian carcinoma. Two women developed apparently isolated recurrences of ovarian carcinoma involving prior incisions after receiving intraperitoneal radioactive chromic phosphate (P-32) adjuvant therapy for early epithelial ovarian carcinoma. Both are alive without evidence of disease at second-look laparotomy after surgical resection of the abdominal wall metastases and cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy. Mechanisms of cutaneous and incisional implantation metastases are discussed. Adjuvant therapy with intraperitoneal P-32 is unable to provide systemic therapy for occult metastatic disease. The favorable outcome in these cases probably reflects limited tumor burden at the time of recurrence and stands in stark contrast to other cases of soft tissue recurrences of ovarian carcinoma reported previously. 
Blockade of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel modulates reactive hyperemia in the canine coronary circulation. The mechanism of reactive hyperemia remains unknown. We hypothesized that reactive hyperemia was related to the opening of ATP-sensitive potassium channels during coronary occlusion. The resulting hyperpolarization of the smooth muscle cell plasma membrane might reduce calcium influx through voltage-dependent calcium channels and result in relaxation of smooth muscle tone and vasodilation. In eight open-chest, anesthetized dogs, 30-second coronary occlusions resulted in an average flow debt repayment of 200 +/- 41%. After low-dose (0.8 mumol/min) and high-dose (3.7 mumol/min) infusion of intracoronary glibenclamide, flow debt repayment fell to 76 +/- 14% and 50 +/- 8%, respectively (p less than 0.05 compared with control for both). The decline in flow debt repayment was due to a significant reduction both in maximum coronary conductance during reactive hyperemia and in its duration. In addition, there was a significant decline in the sensitivity of the coronary circulation to adenosine-induced vasodilation after glibenclamide. While more variable, there was no overall change in the sensitivity of the coronary vasculature to acetylcholine-induced vasodilation after glibenclamide. We conclude that reactive hyperemia is determined in a large part by the ATP-sensitive potassium channel, probably through its effect on membrane potential and voltage-sensitive calcium channels. Because reactive hyperemia was never fully abolished at the highest doses of glibenclamide tested, it is possible that additional mechanisms are involved in the genesis of this complex phenomenon. 
Volume tests for chronic venous insufficiency: an appraisal. Chronic venous disease is increasingly treated surgically with a variety of experimental procedures. Noninvasive volume tests are commonly used before surgery to select patients and after surgery to assess results. Rapid volume changes are considered to indicate regurgitation. Rigorous statistical validation of tests and the confounding nature of unmeasured arterial inflow are seldom considered. Volume changes were measured in 29 control limbs and 35 limbs with venous disease, with mercury-in-silicone rubber strain gauges, for both exercise and elevation. Normalization for arterial flow permitted calculation of the regurgitation rate. Normal (95% confidence) limits for measured and calculated parameters were determined. Specificity was shown by the percent of normal parameter values for control limbs and sensitivity by the percent of abnormal values for extremities with venous disease. Arterial flow significantly altered volume curves. Normalization increased specificity and sensitivity significantly. Calf exercise tests, even normalized, were too insensitive to be reliable. Elevation tests were significantly more sensitive for determining regurgitation. However, exercise tests were useful and supplied important information about the calf muscle pump. We conclude that, as currently used, many limb volume test procedures are unsuitable but could be improved significantly by normalization to reduce the confounding effect of regional arterial flow and use of an elevation test to measure regurgitation. 
Identification of a mutation in porcine ryanodine receptor associated with malignant hyperthermia. Malignant hyperthermia (MH) causes neurological, liver, and kidney damage and death in humans and major economic losses in the swine industry. A single point mutation in the porcine gene for the skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor (ryr1) was found to be correlated with MH in five major breeds of lean, heavily muscled swine. Haplotyping suggests that the mutation in all five breeds has a common origin. Assuming that this is the causal mutation for MH, the development of a noninvasive diagnostic test will provide the basis for elimination of the MH gene or its controlled inclusion in swine breeding programs. 
Severe oral phenytoin overdose does not cause cardiovascular morbidity. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the potential for cardiovascular toxicity from severe oral phenytoin overdose. STUDY POPULATION: Fifty-seven patients admitted during a two-year period to an inner-city hospital for severe oral phenytoin overdose, which is defined as a peak level of 40 micrograms/mL or more. METHODS: Case records were reviewed retrospectively for symptoms and signs of phenytoin toxicity, especially circulatory effects. Baseline and toxic 12-lead ECGs, when available, were reviewed in detail. Continuous variables were compared using either paired or unpaired t tests, as appropriate. Significance was taken as P less than or equal to .05. RESULTS: Mean peak phenytoin level was 49.4 +/- 7.7 micrograms/mL. Continuous single-lead ECG monitoring in 36 patients (63%) for a mean of 26.5 +/- 21.6 hours revealed no incidents of dysrhythmia requiring treatment. ECGs recorded during toxicity in 52 cases (91%) revealed no clinically significant abnormalities attributable to phenytoin. ECGs during toxic and baseline states were available for detailed analysis in 15 cases. Ten patients exhibited an increase in PR interval (mean, 19 +/- 10 ms) when toxic, whereas five had a decrease (mean, 18 +/- 11 ms) compared with nontoxic records. No change in heart rate, QRS duration, or corrected QT interval was observed. There were no circulatory complications and no deaths. CONCLUSION: Cardiovascular toxicity is rarely a manifestation of oral phenytoin overdose. Routine management of stable patients with severe phenytoin overdose in a monitored setting is not mandatory. 
Neurotoxicity of intraventricularly administered alpha-interferon for leptomeningeal disease. Nine patients with leptomeningeal disease are reported who were treated with intraventricular alpha-interferon (alpha-IFN). In seven of these patients, a progressive vegetative state developed during treatment. The patients became unresponsive to verbal commands but opened their eyes with auditory or tactile stimulation. It took an average of 3 weeks for these patients to become verbally responsive after treatment was discontinued. Electroencephalographic findings showed evidence of irritative involvement of the deep midline nuclei in 80% of patients. Periventricular white matter changes developed during treatment in three of six patients who underwent computed tomographic scans. All patients with this severe neurotoxicity received whole-brain irradiation before treatment. Possible mechanisms for the development of this neurotoxic syndrome are discussed. The neurotoxicity of alpha-IFN and brain irradiation may be additive, suggesting a cautious approach when using this combination for treatment. 
Effects of positive end-expiratory pressure on splanchnic circulation and function in experimental peritonitis. Splanchnic and central hemodynamic effects of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) were studied in anesthetized pigs using mechanical ventilatory assistance, with or without sepsis (fecal peritonitis). One hour after sepsis, PEEP (10 cm H2O) was applied (n = 6). Another group (n = 6) had sepsis without PEEP. In one group (n = 6) without sepsis, PEEP was applied after 1 hour, while a fourth group (n = 5), without sepsis or PEEP, served as a control. The group with PEEP and sepsis had reduced cardiac index, portal venous blood flow, and liver surface blood flow. The group with PEEP alone had reduced splanchnic circulation by increasing gastrointestinal vascular resistance, while the group with sepsis alone had increased portal vascular resistance. In a separate series with sepsis, intermittent PEEP, and vigorous fluid resuscitation, it was demonstrated that avoiding hypovolemia did not seem to protect from the PEEP effects on the splanchnic circulation. The combination of sepsis and PEEP was not additive on portal blood flow reduction but reduced bile production. 
Factors affecting survival of patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a West Virginia community. The hospital records for patients treated for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms in southern West Virginia during a recent five year period were reviewed. The over-all mortality rate was 62 per cent. Patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality rate (97 per cent) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture (25 per cent). Patients at increased risk were more than 80 years of age, presented with syncope, experienced a short duration of symptoms before seeking medical attention, had preoperative systolic blood pressure levels of less than 90 millimeters of mercury and had a preoperative hemoglobin level of less than 8. Other factors associated with death were a delay in beginning surgical treatment, a larger total blood loss and amount of blood transfused. The results of multivariate analysis demonstrated that preoperative blood pressure, preoperative hemoglobin, presence of syncope and the amount of blood loss were, in large part, reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality. The most effective method of preventing fatal outcome is elective resection of the aneurysms before rupture occurs. 
Anticonvulsant profiles of the potent and orally active GABA uptake inhibitors SK&F 89976-A and SK&F 100330-A and four prototype antiepileptic drugs in mice and rats. The anticonvulsant profiles of two potent and orally active gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) uptake inhibitors, 1-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidine-carboxylic acid hydrochloride (SK&F 89976-A) and 1-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-3-pyridine-carboxylic acid hydrochloride (SK&F 100330-A), were determined with a battery of well-standardized tests in mice and rats and compared with the profiles of phenytoin (PHT), carbamazepine (CBZ), valproate (VPA) and clonazepam (CZP) when subjected to the same tests. ED50 values were calculated and compared with TD50 values for minimal motor impairment to provide protective indexes (PI = TD50/ED50). The anticonvulsant profiles of SK&F 89976-A and SK&F 100330-A were similar and suggest that these compounds raise the threshold for seizure initiation rather than inhibit seizure spread. Like intraperitoneal (i.p.) PHT, CBZ, VPA, and CZP, SK&F 89976-A and SK&F 100330-A inhibited seizures in corneally kindled rats. The profiles of SK&F 89976-A and SK&F 100330-A were most similar to that of CZP and virtually opposite to that of PHT. Intraperitoneal SK&F 100330-A provided complete protection against pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures [subcutaneous (s.c.) PTZ] in mice but was ineffective against seizures induced by maximal electroshock (MES) at doses slightly greater than its TD50. SK&F 100330-A provided complete protection against picrotoxin-induced seizures (s.c. Pic) and against both clonus and forelimb tonic extension induced by NMDA N-methyl-D-aspartate [intracerebral ventricular (i.c.v.)-NMDA] in mice; however, SK&F 100330-A was ineffective against seizures induced by bicuculline (s.c. Bic) and strychnine (s.c. Strych) at doses slightly greater than its TD50. SK&F 89976-A was similar but provided partial protection against NMDA-induced clonus. 
An in vivo model for the neurodegenerative effects of beta amyloid and protection by substance P. Deposition of the beta-amyloid protein in senile plaques is a pathologic hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD). Focal deposition of beta amyloid in the adult rat cerebral cortex caused profound neurodegenerative changes, including neuronal loss and degenerating neurons and neurites. Chronic induction of the Alz-50 antigen appeared in neurons around focal cortical deposits of beta amyloid. Immunoblot analysis showed that beta amyloid induced Alz-50-immunoreactive proteins in rat cerebral cortex that were very similar to the proteins induced in human cerebral cortex from patients with AD. The neuropeptide substance P prevented beta-amyloid-induced neuronal loss and expression of Alz-50 proteins when coadministered into the cerebral cortex. Systemic administration of substance P also provided protection against the effects of intracerebral beta amyloid. Thus, beta amyloid is a potent neurotoxin in the adult brain in vivo, and its effects can be blocked by substance P. 
Chronic prosthetic vascular graft infection visualized with technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime-labeled leukocytes Technetium-99m-HMPAO labeled leukocytes demonstrated chronic femoro-femoral prosthetic vascular graft infection several times during an 18-mo period in a 77-yr-old man. The intensity and distribution of the uptake in the graft were fluctuating in different imaging occasions possibly indicating the strength and location of the infection. Gallium-67-citrate imaging showed negative results twice. The reason for negative 67Ga results remained obscure. The infected graft was removed and the patient did well 5 mo postoperatively. 
No effect of zidovudine on hepatitis B virus replication in homosexual men with symptomatic HIV-1 infection. Zidovudine triphosphate inhibits the hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA polymerase (DNAp) in vitro. Serial measurements of serum HBV DNAp activity and HBV DNA were made in 14 consecutive male homosexual patients starting zidovudine for symptomatic HIV-1 infection. Median duration of treatment was 15 weeks (range 2-72). In the 13 patients with detectable DNAp/DNA pre-treatment, no significant change in either measure of viral replication was observed during the first 16 weeks of treatment compared with the 13 weeks prior to treatment. The lack of response may be due to the opposing effect of immunosuppression, or to a failure of in vivo activity. 
Tumor invasion of the chest wall and mediastinum in lung cancer: evaluation with pneumothorax CT. For preoperative evaluation of chest wall and mediastinal invasion by lung cancer, computed tomography (CT), combined with artificial pneumothorax (pneumothorax CT), was performed in 43 patients with lung cancer in whom conventional CT scans showed that the mass was contiguous to the chest wall (n = 30) and/or mediastinum (n = 25) but without evidence of definite tumor invasion. Invasion was diagnosed on the basis of whether an air space existed between the mass and the adjacent structures. In three patients pneumothorax was not produced. After the procedure, four patients developed symptomatic pneumothorax, and one, subcutaneous emphysema. Comparison of diagnoses based on findings at pneumothorax CT, surgery, and pathologic examination showed that pneumothorax CT is 100% accurate for chest wall invasion and 76% accurate for mediastinal invasion. The authors conclude that this procedure is helpful in accurate evaluation of the T criterion in lung cancer, especially for patients in whom findings at conventional CT suggest tumor invasion of the chest wall and mediastinum. 
Alpha 2 macroglobulin state in acute pancreatitis. Raised values of alpha 2 macroglobulin-protease complexes in severe and mild attacks. Plasma values of C reactive protein, alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor, alpha 2 macroglobulin, and complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin have been determined in serial samples from 27 patients with acute pancreatitis. Complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin was measured by a novel enzyme linked immunosorbent assay with a monoclonal antibody specific for the complexed form. Patients with severe illness had lower concentrations of total alpha 2 macroglobulin and higher concentrations of complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin than those with mild illness, and in the majority of severe attacks the abnormal amounts of complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin were present throughout the eight days of the study. The proportion of total alpha 2 macroglobulin in the uncomplexed form, however, was generally greater than 90%, and in 26% of the mild cases completely normal concentrations of uncomplexed alpha 2 macroglobulin (greater than 99% of total) were found throughout the eight days of the study. This suggests that exhaustion of alpha 2 macroglobulin in plasma is unlikely to be a major factor in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis. 
Depression of factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity characterizes patients with early myocardial reinfarction after recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator therapy. Twenty patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) had endogenous factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity levels measured throughout the hospital period and those levels were prospectively correlated with the incidence of recurrent myocardial infarction until 8 weeks after hospital discharge. Within the follow-up period, recurrent myocardial infarction was observed in 8 patients, whereas the remaining 12 patients showed no clinical evidence of recurrence. The patients in the reinfarction group were characterized by a more pronounced depletion of and sustained lower levels of factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity than were the patients with no reinfarction (p less than 0.05). The decrease in fibrinolytic activity during rt-PA therapy was significantly associated with a depletion of functional alpha 2-antiplasmin, the primary plasmin inhibitor. These results indicate that, paradoxically, coronary thrombolysis with rt-PA involves depletion of endogenous factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity levels, which constitutes a risk for early myocardial reinfarction. 
Arthroscopic stapling for detached superior glenoid labrum. Superior labral tears of the shoulder involve the biceps tendon and labrum complex which may be detached, displaced inferiorly, and interposed between the glenoid and the humeral head. We have treated ten young athletes with painful shoulders due to this lesion by arthroscopic stapling. Arthroscopy at the time of staple removal, after three to six months, showed that all the lesions had been stabilised. Clinical review at over 24 months showed an excellent or good result in 80%. The two relative failures were due in one to residual subacromial bursitis, and the other to multidirectional shoulder instability. Arthroscopic stapling can restore the shoulder anatomy, and it is recommended for active adolescent athletes with this lesion. 
Percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump: emphasis on complications. In a review of our 5-year experience with intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) insertion I examined the complications of percutaneous IABP placement in 93 patients, and compared them with those reported in other studies in the literature. I analyzed several variables that may affect the complication rate. Of 78 patients in our series who had percutaneous IABP cardiac assist, 15 (19%) had complications, which falls into the acceptable range reported by others. Among 15 patients who had surgical placement of an IABP, the complication rate was similar at 20%. The complication rate after IABP insertions done by surgeons primarily in the operating room was compared with that from insertions done by cardiologists in the catheterization laboratory. The overall complication rate was found to be higher in the second group, 28.0% compared with 12.8%. The application of the IABP in cardiogenic shock was associated with a high complication rate (46%). On the other hand, its insertion before cardiac surgery was associated with a relatively low complication rate (9.5%). 
Left ventricular outflow obstruction resulting from insertion of mitral prostheses leaving the native leaflets intact: adverse clinical outcome in seven patients. Left ventricular (LV) outflow obstruction may result from retaining the anterior mitral leaflet when a mitral prosthesis is inserted in the mitral anulus. We retrospectively reviewed the echocardiograms (two-dimensional Doppler and Doppler color flow imaging, or transesophageal with color flow imaging) obtained in seven patients with preoperative mitral regurgitation who had a prosthesis implanted with the native mitral leaflets left intact. Systolic anterior motion of the native anterior mitral leaflet, as seen in dynamic LV outflow tract obstruction, was observed in six of seven patients. LV fractional shortening preoperatively was less than or equal to 0.25 in all (mean 0.20 +/- 0.04) and did not significantly (p = ns) increase postoperatively (mean 0.27 +/- 0.12). Color flow imaging revealed disturbed systolic flow in the LV outflow tract in five patients, and all had systolic anterior motion of the native anterior mitral leaflet. Continuous wave Doppler detected significant systolic LV outflow tract jets in five patients averaging 4.1 +/- 0.9 m/sec. Mitral prosthetic function was normal (pressure half-time of 81 +/- 25 msec and mean gradient of 7 +/- 3 mm Hg +/- SD) in five patients. Clinical follow-up revealed that all had died, six of them within 2 months of their operation. Thus systolic anterior motion of the native anterior mitral leaflet occurs commonly after prosthetic mitral valve insertion with the native leaflets left intact. Continuous wave Doppler often demonstrates increased systolic LV outflow tract velocities consistent with dynamic LV outflow obstruction. 
Periorbital necrobiotic xanthogranuloma and stage I multiple myeloma. Ultrastructure and response to pulsed dexamethasone documented by magnetic resonance imaging. We observed a 40-year-old woman with necrobiotic xanthogranuloma from the inception of indurated eyelid and periorbital infiltrates and concurrent stage I multiple myeloma to resolution of infiltrates in skin and bone marrow after pulsed high-dose oral dexamethasone therapy. Ultrastructural studies revealed lipid vacuoles in epidermal keratinocytes, in dermal histiocytic macrophages, and in vascular and lymphatic endothelial cells. The presence of lipid vacuoles in epidermal keratinocytes has not been reported previously in xanthogranuloma. 
Failed back surgery syndrome: 5-year follow-up after spinal cord stimulator implantation. Spinal cord stimulation, in use for more than 20 years, has evolved into an easily implemented technique, with percutaneous methods for electrode placement. We have reviewed our experience with this technique in treating "failed back surgery syndrome," and have assessed patient and treatment characteristics as predictors of long-term outcome. A series of 50 patients with failed back surgery syndrome (averaging 3.1 previous operations), who underwent spinal cord stimulator implantation, was interviewed by impartial third parties, at mean follow-up intervals of 2.2 years and 5.0 years. Successful outcome (at least 50% sustained relief of pain and patient satisfaction with the result) was recorded in 53% of patients at 2.2 years and in 47% of patients at 5.0 years postoperatively. Ten of 40 patients who were disabled preoperatively returned to work. Improvements in activities of daily living were recorded in most patients for most activities; loss of function was rare. Most patients reduced or eliminated analgesic intake. Statistical analysis (including univariate and multivariate logistic regression) of patient characteristics as prognostic factors showed significant advantages for female patients and for those with programmable multi-contact implanted devices. These results, in patients with postsurgical lumbar arachnoid and epidural fibrosis and without surgically remediable lesions, compare favorably with the results in two separate series of patients with failed back surgery syndrome, in whom 1) surgical lesions were diagnosed and repeated operation performed; and 2) monoradicular pain syndromes were diagnosed and dorsal root ganglionectomies performed at our institution. This suggests the need for further assessment of selection criteria, critical analysis of treatment outcome, and prospective study of spinal cord stimulation and alternative approaches to failed back surgery syndrome. 
Antiplatelet and antithrombotic therapy in unstable angina. In 4 well-controlled clinical trials, aspirin reduced the incidence of coronary events in unstable angina. The benefits were present during the acute, subacute and more chronic phases of the disease and were independent of the doses and of other protocol differences. This benefit of aspirin can be extended to some, but not all, other antiplatelet drugs. In 4 clinical trials, heparin used acutely added substantial benefit to the management of unstable angina, reducing the event rate and also the incidence of refractory angina more than aspirin. The long-term benefit of antithrombin therapy remains to be more thoroughly investigated. Despite these successes, the failure rate of aspirin and of heparin remains high, justifying a continuing search for more potent and safe antiplatelet and antithrombotic drugs. 
Carbon dioxide laser ablation of cutaneous metastases from malignant melanoma. Multiple cutaneous and superficial subcutaneous metastases from malignant melanoma in 30 patients were treated palliatively by carbon dioxide laser ablation when lesions were to numerous, too large or recurring too rapidly for multiple local excisions. The number of lesions per patient ranged from three to 250 (median 30). Patients were treated under local or general anaesthetic and as day cases or inpatients. After a median follow-up interval of 8 months fewer than 1 per cent of lasered metastases have recurred locally. Sixteen patients have developed cutaneous metastases at other sites requiring further treatment. Approximately 2000 lesions have been treated on 64 occasions. Patients reported little or no pain after the operation and required only simple dry dressings. Wounds were completely healed in 2-6 weeks with good cosmetic results. This simple and effective treatment is becoming an alternative to isolated limb perfusion. 
Use of endoscopy in peptic ulcer disease. The diagnosis and treatment of acute bleeding caused by peptic ulcer disease has been greatly facilitated by fiberoptic endoscopy. The basic differentiation between malignant and benign gastric ulcer requires endoscopic confirmation with biopsy. The management of bleeding from peptic ulceration can be enhanced by endoscopic examination as can the prediction of risk for recurrent bleeding or need for surgical intervention. Various therapeutic maneuvers can be performed endoscopically, including monopolar and multipolar cautery, laser and heater probe therapy, and injection of vasoconstrictors to control bleeding. Endoscopic balloon dilation for the management of gastric outlet obstruction is often effective. 
Optic chiasmal neuritis. In four of six patients with clinical optic chiasmal neuritis, MRI demonstrated abnormalities of the chiasm. Optic chiasmal neuritis may be the initial manifestation of multiple sclerosis, a reflection of established CNS demyelination, or an isolated clinical finding. 
MR imaging evaluation of endometrial carcinoma: results of an NCI cooperative study. A prospective study to assess the usefulness of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the evaluation of endometrial carcinoma was undertaken by five institutions under the auspices of the National Cancer Institute. Six different MR imagers were used, ranging in magnetic field strength from 0.15 T to 1.5 T. For each unit, appropriate T1- and T2-weighted sequences in the transverse plane and T2-weighted sequences in the sagittal plane were used. Initially, 107 patients were entered in the study, but only 88 fulfilled all the criteria and provide the basis for this study. The abnormality within the endometrial cavity was demonstrated with MR imaging in 81% of the patients. The overall accuracy with MR imaging for staging endometrial carcinoma was 85%. In the evaluation of depth of myometrial invasion for stage I disease, overall accuracy with MR imaging was 74%. The accuracy of MR imaging in assessing tumors confined to endometrium or tumor with superficial myometrial invasion was 89% and decreased to 54% in assessing deep myometrial invasion. The results of this prospective study performed by multiple examiners with vastly different equipment demonstrate the inherent value of MR imaging in the evaluation of this neoplasm. 
Effect of prazosin treatment on HDL kinetics in patients with hypertension. The effect of prazosin treatment on blood pressure, plasma HDL-cholesterol concentration, and apoprotein-AI/HDL (apoAI/HDL) kinetics was studied in 11 patients with mild hypertension. Blood pressure (mean +/- SEM) fell from 143 +/- 1/96 +/- 1 to 134 +/- 1/86 +/- 1 mm Hg after 4 to 5 months of prazosin treatment (P less than .001), associated with an increase in plasma HDL-cholesterol concentration from 38 +/- 2 to 46 +/- 2 mg/dL (P less than .001). Both the fractional catabolic rate (FCR) and total synthetic rate of apoAI/HDL, which were higher than previous reported values for normal individuals, decreased from 0.36 +/- 0.02 to 0.30 +/- 0.02 L/day and 17.4 +/- 1.1 to 13.8 +/- 1.1 mg/kg/min, respectively. These changes were statistically significant, and the post-treatment values for both variables were now within the normal range. When the decay curve was further analyzed by nonlinear curve fitting, it was shown that the return to normal of the FCR of apoAI/HDL in patients treated with prazosin was accounted for by the decrease of the decay constants of the second [p(2)] and third [p(3)] components of the 125I-AI/HDL disappearance curve. In conclusion, abnormalities in HDL concentration and HDL kinetics exist in patients with very mild hypertension. These defects were significantly improved with prazosin treatment, and this may render the compound of particular clinical benefit in the treatment of patients with mild hypertension. 
Paediatric haemangiomas: the role of radiotherapy. Radiotherapy currently maintains an occasional place in the therapy of complicated haemangiomas of childhood. Eight such childhood benign lesions have been so treated at St Bartholomew's Hospital in the last 10 years. The case histories are presented before being discussed in the context of other therapies available (no treatment, steroids, embolism and surgery), radiation technique used and radiation dose prescription advised. 
Fatal human cyclical neutropenia with unresolving tonsillitis and bilateral cervical abscesses. Human Cyclical Neutropenia is a rare haematological disorder, characterized by periodic oscillations in peripheral neutrophil levels from normal to neutropenic, during which patients experience ulcerative stomatitis, fever, malaise and occasional cutaneous and subcutaneous infections. We present our experience with a fatal case of Human Cyclical Neutropenia together with a brief review of the literature and diagnostic criteria. The paper aims to heighten the clinical awareness of the otolaryngologist to the condition. Close co-operation with the haematologist is essential both for diagnosis and management. 
'Medial maxillectomy' for lateral nasal wall neoplasms. Lateral rhinotomy and "medial maxillectomy," an en bloc resection of the medial maxillary sinus, ethmoid sinus with the lamina papyracea, medial orbital floor, and lacrimal fossa-duct, have been advocated for lateral nasal wall neoplasma. Experience with 35 (of 41) patients followed up at least 30 months (median, 57 months) postoperatively is reported. There was a 9% recurrence for benign tumors and 15% for malignant neoplasms, the latter only in the patients with nonmelanoma malignant neoplasms not receiving postoperative radiotherapy. The most frequent complications were cavity crusting, epicanthal scarring, and epiphora. 
Efficacy of slow-release nifedipine on myocardial ischemic episodes in variant angina pectoris. To evaluate the efficacy of slow-release nifedipine (a single dose of 20 mg given at 10 P.M. or 2 doses of 20 mg at 10 P.M. and 6 A.M.) on ischemic episodes in patients with variant angina, a single-blind crossover study with ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring was performed in 15 patients (13 men and 2 women, mean age 63 years). In all, there were 646 ischemic episodes detected with ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring during the study period, and 618 episodes of them occurred during placebo periods with a circadian variation. Sixty-nine percent of the episodes in placebo periods were asymptomatic. The number of anginal attacks, nitroglycerin tablets taken, ST-segment elevation and the total ischemic duration significantly decreased during nifedipine therapy compared with results after the placebo therapy period, respectively (p less than 0.01 or 0.05). Twenty-eight ischemic episodes occurred during nifedipine therapy when the plasma level of nifedipine was low. Thus, asymptomatic ischemic episodes more frequently occur than symptomatic episodes and the administration of slow-release nifedipine is highly effective in suppressing not only symptomatic but also asymptomatic myocardial ischemia in patients with variant angina. The timing of the administration of slow-release nifedipine is an important factor in suppressing ischemic episodes. 
Natural history of hepatic haemangiomas: clinical and ultrasound study. Hepatic haemangiomas are the most common benign tumours of the liver and commonly present as incidental findings on sonographic examination of the abdomen. Since little is known of the natural course of these tumours, we performed a clinical and sonographic follow up of 123 haemangioma patients. Our prospective study investigated clinical and sonographic findings in 158 haemangiomas for periods of 12 to 60 months. Ninety nine haemangiomas measured less than 2 cm and had an echogenic pattern; 40 were between 2 cm and 5 cm with a mainly echogenic structure; 19 measured greater than 5 cm and showed a mixed echo pattern. At the first examination only eight patients, all with giant haemangiomas, presented symptoms which could be attributed to the tumour. During follow up only one haemangioma changed in shape and size. One patient who was symptom free at the first examination experienced right upper abdominal quadrant pain during follow up. No deterioration occurred in any of the patients with symptoms at the first examination, and all had a satisfactory quality of life. No complications arose during the follow up period. This study shows that in adults haemangiomas remain stable in size and echo patterns rarely change. Only haemangiomas greater than 5 cm may cause symptoms. Prolonged clinical and sonographic follow up of small and medium sized haemangiomas is not warranted. 
Recent advances in the treatment of breast cancer. Multidisciplinary efforts have defined a number of prognostic factors and newer strategies to improve the outcome of patients with breast cancer. Conservative surgery has led to improved functional and cosmetic results. The development of a number of effective adjuvant regimens has led to improved survival. In patients with stage I disease, several biological characteristics of tumor have been identified that are associated with increased risk of relapse. A multimodality approach to patients with locally advanced disease and inflammatory cancer has resulted in improved survival. A number of hormonal and cytotoxic drug contaminations can palliate metastatic disease, with a small fraction of patients remaining in extended remission. Dose-intensive programs may lead to further improvements in survival of selected patients with this disease. 
Metabolic imaging of patients with cardiomyopathy. The cardiomyopathies comprise a diverse group of illnesses that can be characterized functionally by several techniques. However, the delineation of derangements of regional perfusion and metabolism have been accomplished only relatively recently with positron emission tomography (PET). Regional myocardial accumulation and clearance of 11C-palmitate, the primary myocardial substrate under most conditions, demonstrate marked spatial heterogeneity when studied under fasting conditions or with glucose loading. PET with 11C-palmitate permits the noninvasive differentiation of patients with nonischemic from ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy, since patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy demonstrate large zones of intensely depressed accumulation of 11C-palmitate, probably reflecting prior infarction. Patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and Duchenne's muscular dystrophy demonstrate relatively unique patterns of myocardial abnormalities of perfusion and metabolism. The availability of new tracers and techniques for the evaluation of myocardial metabolism (11C-acetate), perfusion (H2(15)O), and autonomic tone (11-C-hydroxyephedrine) should facilitate further understanding of the pathogenesis of the cardiomyopathies. 
Complications following external beam radiation therapy for prostate cancer: an analysis of patients treated with and without staging pelvic lymphadenectomy. We reviewed the treatment morbidity associated with definitive high energy external beam radiotherapy in 289 consecutive patients with clinically localized prostate cancer (stages A2 to C) treated from 1984 to 1988 inclusively. All patients were treated with 18 mv. photon beams via a 4-field box technique. Radiation doses ranged from 5,858 to 6,900 cGy., with a mean dose of 6,456 cGy. and a median dose of 6,400 cGy. A total of 65 patients underwent extraperitoneal pelvic staging lymphadenectomy before radiotherapy. Complications noted in 42 patients were mild (generally trivial) in 23 and moderate in 19 (6.6%). There were no severe complications. The actuarial incidence of moderate complications was 9% at 5 years. Only 6 patients experienced symptoms for longer than 6 months. The risk of complications was not increased in patients who had undergone prior lymph node dissection, and only 2 of 65 had mild lymphedema, which resolved in both cases. We conclude that high energy external beam radiation for prostate cancer can be delivered with a low risk of serious complications, even in patients who have undergone extraperitoneal staging pelvic lymphadenectomy, provided the patients are treated to limited fields with high energy photons and at doses limited to 6,800 cGy. or less. 
Favorable response to parenteral nutrition and medical therapy in Crohn's colitis. A report of 38 patients comparing severe Crohn's and ulcerative colitis. The courses of 38 patients with severe, uncomplicated acute colitis (16 with Crohn's colitis and 22 with ulcerative colitis) were analyzed retrospectively. The patients were placed on total parenteral nutrition and treated concomitantly with corticosteroids, antibiotics (often metronidazole), sulfasalazine, and/or azathioprine. Fifteen of the 16 Crohn's colitis patients were initially managed without surgery. Four patients subsequently relapsed, two responded to reinstituted medical therapy, and two underwent colon resection 2 and 4 years later. Of 22 ulcerative colitis patients, 16 required surgery during the initial hospitalization, one patient subsequently had surgery, and one died after refusing surgery. Three of the other four continue in remission on medical therapy. Thus, there were significant differences in this series between the clinical courses of severe ulcerative colitis and severe Crohn's colitis. While most of the ulcerative colitis patients with severe disease underwent colectomy, most of the patients with severe but uncomplicated Crohn's colitis responded to aggressive medical therapy, of which total parenteral nutrition and perhaps bowel rest seemed to be an important part. Afterwards, the majority remained in remission on long-term medical therapy. 
Combined intertrochanteric and Chiari pelvic osteotomies for hip dysplasia. Thirty-two dysplastic hips with secondary osteoarthritis, in 28 patients aged 18 to 42 years, were treated by combined intertrochanteric and Chiari osteotomy. They were followed up for 2.5 to 10 years. Pain was the main presenting symptom in all the patients. The indication for surgery was based on the severity of disease with respect to congruency, secondary degenerative change and degree of dysplasia. The average pre-operative Harris hip score was 47.7 and the majority had severe dysplasia with degenerative changes. On final review the average score was 88. The radiographic appearances of degenerative arthritis regressed in 72% of hips and dysplasia was improved in all cases. The results of this conservative form of surgery are better in hips with less severe dysplasia and mild secondary degenerative change. 
Familial aggregation of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and other malignancies. A clinicopathologic description. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) occurred in five members in three generations of a white American family of Scandinavian descent. Six other family members had malignancies including malignant melanoma, malignant lymphoma, squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue, adenocarcinoma of the colon, and asynchronous bilateral in situ and invasive ductal carcinomas of the breast. There was also a history of autoimmune disorders and exposure to smoke, fumes, and chemicals in some family members. Regression analysis revealed a significant covariate risk for exposure to smoking, alcohol ingestion, dust, salted or spicy foods, and poorly ventilated conditions. According to segregation analysis, the susceptibility to nasopharyngeal carcinoma and other malignancies in this family was transmitted as an autosomal codominant characteristic. A specific histocompatibility antigen (HLA) haplotype of A1-B37-DR6 was associated with a predisposition for NPC, but no linkage was identified. Laboratory studies in selected family members did not reveal significantly elevated levels of Epstein-Barr virus antibodies or serum carcinoembryonic antigen. No specific karyotypic abnormalities were identified with peripheral blood chromosome analysis. This family was an example of apparent autosomal codominant susceptibility to NPC and other malignancies. The relationship of malignancy to the HLA haplotype of A1-B37-DR6, autoimmune disorders, and cytogenetic abnormalities was intriguing but not defined clearly. 
Glial contribution to seizure: carbonic anhydrase activity in epileptic mammalian brain. The activity of carbonic anhydrase (CA), a glial enzyme, was measured in the epileptic cortex of audiogenic DBA/2 mice and of cats with a freeze lesion. In mice, the activity increased with age from birth to 24 days, but were always higher in audiogenic mice than in normal C57/BL mice, reflecting species differences. The difference between the two strains increased sharply from 25 to 40 days of age, after the period of maximal audiogenic susceptibility. Acetazolamide, a CA-specific inhibitor, greatly decreased the seizure severity score of DBA/2 mice after a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration (150 mg/kg). After 24 days of age, when CA activities were high, the effect of acetazolamide was less important, suggesting that the increased cortical CA activity might reflect a protective mechanism. In cats with a freeze lesion, no significant changes in CA activities were observed in the actively discharging primary and secondary foci as compared with the nonepileptogenic perifocal cortex and the control cortex of sham-operated animals. The results indicate that the cortex of genetically susceptible audiogenic mice has an increased CA activity. The hypothesis of an adaptive glial mechanism, relating to the age-dependent decrease of seizure susceptibility in DBA/2 mice, is postulated. 
Hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy in the limited form of Wegener's granulomatosis. A patient with the limited form of Wegener's granulomatosis is reported. The case is unusual because of hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy, severe ulceration of the respiratory and digestive tracts, and the rapidly fatal outcome. 
Revascularization of infarcted vs. viable myocardium. Effects on symptoms, physical performance and global/regional left ventricular function. Symptoms, physical performance and global vs. regional left ventricular (LV) function were reviewed in 25 patients with postinfarction anterior-apical akinesia and minor dyskinesia who subsequently underwent revascularization of all graftable stenotic vessels. The observed postoperative improvement in functional NYHA capacity and physical performance was not related to significant change in any systolic or diastolic variable of global LV function. 'Nonspecific postoperative septal hypokinesia' developed in most cases. The regional ejection fraction showed slight (nonsignificant) mean increase in the infarcted apex and low anterior wall supplied by the left anterior descending artery, but marked increase in the noninfarcted lateral wall supplied by the left circumflex branch. Hearts with grafted left circumflex artery showed on average lower preoperative and postoperative ejection fraction in the lateral wall than did hearts without such grafting, but the rise in regional ejection fraction was significant only after left circumflex grafting. The clinical response to coronary artery surgery is attributed mainly to functional improvement of non-infarcted myocardium. Revascularization of viable myocardium occurs directly via bypass grafts, but collateral vessels may also contribute. 
A 2-year experience with the Wolf piezoelectric lithotripter: impact of repeat treatment on results and complications. During a 2-year period, 884 extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy treatments have been performed on stones in 388 renal units (kidney and upper ureter) using a Wolf Piezolith device.* Lithotripsy routinely was performed on an outpatient basis without use of anesthesia or premedication. Often, the maximum number of pulses allowable by a Food and Drug Administration protocol (4,000) was delivered and retreatments frequently occurred on successive days. Of the patients 75% were stone-free 3 months after treatment, while another 20% had only residual small fragments. No intrarenal or perinephric hematomas were observed and only 1 patient has had hypertension requiring medication. Renal colic from passage of stone fragments occurred in only 10% of the patients. An aggressive treatment policy using repeat treatments as necessary provides for superior results with this device without an incision or complication. 
Torticollis in children. Torticollis is a common clinical sign that is found in a variety of disorders. Childhood torticollis differs from the adult form in that congenital types are common and many frequently encountered disorders found in adults are unusual. Pediatric torticollis related to otolaryngologic conditions is reviewed, and three illustrative cases are presented. 
Serum-erythropoietin concentration during acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Reduced oxygen tension is regarded as the primary physiologic signal for the production of erythropoietin (EPO). There is little information available about early changes of EPO production in man due to severe hypoxia. The purpose of the present study was to examine the time course of EPO in serum of patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema (ACPE). In 29 patients (seventy-five +/- six years, mean age +/- SEM) who were hospitalized within two hours after onset of symptoms of ACPE, serum EPO concentrations were monitored for up to seventy-two hours. At the moment of admission all patients showed significantly increased EPO concentrations of 121 +/- 64 mU/mL (mean +/- SEM) compared with a healthy population (15-35 mU/mL). Twenty-three patients who recovered within thirty minutes (group A) exhibited a quick return of their EPO serum levels to normal. The remaining 6 patients (group B) had a protracted clinical course and their EPO concentration showed a further increase up to the end of the observation period. The comparative monitoring of concentrations of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor, antithrombin III, C-reactive protein, fibronectin, hapotoglobin, and transerrin in serum and plasma revealed no significant changes. Thus a major contribution of fluid shifts into or from the intravascular compartment to the observed changes in EPO concentration seems to be unlikely. The data suggest that the production and release of EPO in the kidneys due to altered oxygen delivery is a fast-responding mechanism. 
Effect of surgery on the systemic inflammatory response to intermittent claudication The hypothesis that intermittent claudication initiates a systemic inflammatory response was investigated by studying the effect of exercise on markers of neutrophil activation and vascular permeability in 25 claudicants and 10 controls. Urinary albumin excretion, previously demonstrated to reflect vascular permeability, increased significantly after exercise in claudicants and was associated with decreased neutrophil filterability and increased serum lysozyme activity. No similar exercise-induced changes were seen in controls or in claudicants after successful arterial bypass surgery. These results suggest that intermittent claudication is associated with potentially deleterious systemic manifestations that are surgically reversible. 
Temporal arteritis: an atypical presentation. Temporal (giant cell) arteritis is a systemic granulomatous vasculitis primarily involving branches of the carotid arteries in patients aged 50 years and greater. Its classic symptoms and signs are headache and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), but this is not the only presentation. This case is the first reported in a Korean, whose chief complaint was pain in the tongue and headaches and whose ESR was normal. The diagnosis was confirmed by biopsy. Her symptoms abated when treated with prednisone, but she developed diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, and compression fracture of lumbar vertebrae while being treated. Primary physicians should become aware of the atypical features of this disease, as well as the potential complications of treatment. 
Pre-travel health, immunization status, and demographics of travel to the developing world for individuals visiting a travel medicine service. It is estimated that five million Americans will travel to the developing world over the next year. This study examines the demographic profile, past medical and immunization history, itinerary, and reason for travel of 2, 445 travelers to the developing world seen at a travel medicine service from 1984 through 1989. The travelers age ranged from three months to 85 years (mean age 43). A chronic medical condition was reported by 654 (27%). Four percent of all travelers were intolerant of sulfonamides, and 9% had contraindications to mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis. Many travelers were due to receive the primary series or updatings of routinely recommended immunizations: 43% for tetanus/diphtheria, 55% of those born after 1956 for measles, and 70% for polio if their travel itinerary included a polio risk. Most travel (71%) was for vacations, 13% was for teaching or study, 11% for business, and 5% for missionary activities. The median duration of travel was 21 days; 5% traveled for more than one year. While over 150 countries were visited, 52% of all travel was to 10 countries in East Africa, the Indian subcontinent, the Far East, and South America. Information about the epidemiology of travel to the developing world can help physicians and travel medicine services develop more effective preventive measures for travelers. 
A review of current drugs for migraine. The current treatments available for migraine are reviewed and may be classified into four basic types. (a) Identification and elimination of migraine trigger factors, which include stress, emotions, fatigue, certain foods and beverages, and certain medications such as oestrogen therapy. (b) Symptomatic treatment of individual attacks. This includes various non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including aspirin and paracetamol, and ergotamine, dihydroergotamine and phenothiazines. Morphinomimetics, which are often given for migraine, should really be avoided. (c) Prophylactic treatment which is particularly recommended for patients averaging two or more severe migraine attacks per month. Useful drugs include: beta-adrenergic receptor blockers as first choice, e.g. propranolol, timolol, nadolol and metoprolol; 5-hydroxytryptamine blockers, e.g. pizotifen and methysergide; calcium channel blockers; dihydroergotamine; and NSAIDs. (d) Non-drug treatment which is best combined with identification and elimination of trigger factors, and the use of various relaxation techniques. These four treatment types are covered in some detail, however it is clear that none of them is ideal and side-effects present a problem. Clearly, the continued research and development of novel and specific drugs for migraine is vital. 
Simulation of compartment syndrome by rupture of the deep femoral artery from blunt trauma. Life-threatening hemorrhage of the femoral vasculature from a blunt injury to the thigh without femoral fracture has not been emphasized in the medical literature. Two cases of massive hemorrhage from the deep femoral system resulted from blunt injury to the thigh without femoral fracture. In the first case, a diagnosis of compartment syndrome was based on muscle swelling from the blunt trauma. A fasciotomy uncovered life-threatening bleeding. In the second case, which had a similar history and clinical symptoms, a vascular injury was suspected and an arteriogram was done. Disruption of the deep femoral arterial system was detected, and fluoroscopic embolization controlled the bleeding. A routine fasciotomy was then done. Both patients appeared clinically to have a thigh compartment syndrome, presumably based on injury from the crushed muscle. They both had normal arterial pulsations distal to the injured thigh. The only feature that suggested a vascular injury was a need for transfusion for hemodynamic support in excess of apparent blood loss. Arteriography, with embolization if necessary, is advised for all cases of suspected thigh compartment syndrome in which there is an unexplained need for hemodynamic support by transfusion. 
Porous-coated anatomic total knee arthroplasty. A prospective analysis comparing cemented and cementless fixation. The results of 26 cementless porous-coated anatomic (PCA) total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) were analyzed and compared to 25 cemented PCA TKAs. Identical prospective protocols were followed. The mean preoperative and postoperative knee scores at an average three-year follow-up interval (range, two to five years) were 59.6 and 81.5 for cementless knees compared to 57.6 and 80.4 for cemented knees. The difference was not statistically significant (p greater than 0.10). Blood loss was significantly higher in the cementless knees (p = 0.02). Radiolucent lines, loose beads, and tibial component subsidence were more frequent in cementless knees. No differences between cementless and cemented knees were observed in the femoral components. The PCA femoral components implanted without cement compare favorably to those implanted with cement. The PCA tibial and patellar components are more reliably secured with cement. 
Expression of a mitogen-responsive gene encoding prostaglandin synthase is regulated by mRNA splicing. Rous sarcoma virus was shown to induce in chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) a 4.1-kilobase mRNA (designated CEF-147) encoding a 603-amino acid protein. Analysis of the protein sequence showed that it shared 59% amino acid identity with sheep prostaglandin G/H synthase, the enzyme that catalyzes the rate-limiting steps in the production of prostaglandins. Significant differences, at both the protein and mRNA levels, existed between the src oncogene product-inducible prostaglandin synthase and the protein isolated and cloned from sheep seminal vesicle, suggesting that the src-inducible prostaglandin synthase may be a new form of the enzyme. A distinguishing feature of src-inducible prostaglandin synthase mRNA is its low abundance in nonproliferating chicken embryo fibroblasts and its relatively high abundance in src-transformed cells. Additionally, the majority of the src-inducible prostaglandin synthase RNA present in nonproliferating cells was found to be nonfunctional because of the presence of an unspliced intron that separated the signal peptide from the remainder of the protein. Upon mitogenic stimulation, this intron was removed, resulting in the induction of fully-spliced CEF-147 mRNA. 
A pair of monozygotic twins who are concordant for myasthenia gravis but became discordant for systemic lupus erythematosus post-thymectomy. We describe a pair of monozygotic twins who are concordant for myasthenia gravis but discordant for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). SLE developed in twin 1 18 years post-thymectomy and has been characterized by recurrent transverse myelitis and optic neuritis. Twin 2 remains well post-thymectomy, except for a skin rash and persistent leukopenia. Both twins have developed autoimmune thyroid disease. We review genetic and environmental factors of importance in the pathogenesis of SLE and discuss the possible role of thymectomy in the etiology of the disease. 
Cause of death in patients attending multiple sclerosis clinics. Between 1972 and 1988, 145 deaths occurred among 3,126 patients attending the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Clinics in Vancouver, British Columbia (N = 1,583), and London, Ontario (N = 1,543). We could determine the exact cause of death in 82.1% of cases (119 of 145). Of the 119 patients for whom the cause of death was known, 56 deaths (47.1%) were directly attributed to complications of MS. Of the remaining 63 deaths, 18 (28.6%) were suicides, 19 (30.2%) were due to malignancy, 13 (20.6%) to an acute myocardial infarction, seven (11.1%) to stroke, and the remainder (9.5%) to miscellaneous causes, of which two may have been suicides. The proportion of suicides among MS deaths was 7.5 times that for the age-matched general population, and the proportion of MS deaths from malignancy was 0.67 times that for the age-matched general population. The proportion of deaths due to malignancy and stroke was the same for the MS patients and the age-matched general population. 
Tissue plasminogen activator for the treatment of thromboembolism in infants and children. We report our experience with the use of tissue plasminogen activator to treat 12 infants and children with various thromboembolic states after conventional thrombolytic agents had failed. The dosage range was between 0.1 to 0.5 mg/kg per hour. Complete clot dissolution occurred in seven cases after 2 hours to 3 days of therapy. Partial clot dissolution and clinical improvement were noted in another four patients. Bleeding complications were noted in 6 of the 12 patients and included bruising, oozing from various venipuncture sites, and bleeding; these complications were controlled by clinically available means. In all cases with bleeding the dose rate was in the higher range (0.46 to 0.50 mg/kg per hour). In one patient, restlessness, agitation, and screaming were noted during administration of tissue plasminogen activator and when it was reinstituted. We conclude that tissue plasminogen activator is effective in inducing clot lysis in children. Because the effective dose appears to overlap with those causing bleeding, we recommend that a dose of 0.1 mg/kg per hour be started and increased gradually if clot dissolution does not occur, with close monitoring for bleeding. 
Quality of life after bypass surgery for unstable angina. 5-year follow-up results of a Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study To assess the effect of bypass surgery on outcome from unstable angina, 468 patients were randomized to medical treatment (237 patients) or surgery plus medical treatment (231 patients) and have been followed for comparison of survival, cardiac end points, and quality of life; the latter end point is discussed in the present report. Data were available at 3 and 5 years for 80% and 82% of patients in the medical group, respectively, and 77% and 80% of patients in the surgery group, respectively. At 3 months after randomization to therapy, 79.8% of patients in the surgery group reported subjective improvement, compared with 58% of the medical group, 12.6% of the surgery group reported no change compared with 24.5% of the medical group, and 5.5% of the surgery group reported worsening compared with 24.5% of the medical group (p less than 0.01 by chi 2). Similar data were found for chest pain status, and the benefit to the surgery group remained statistically significant through 5 years of follow-up. Crossover rate to surgery was 43% by 5 years. Treadmill duration was increased in the surgery group compared with the medical group (6.5 +/- 0.25 versus 5.3 +/- 0.25 minutes at 6 months, p less than 0.01), and a significant difference was again demonstrated at 3 and 5 years. A trend toward decreased recurrence of unstable angina was present in the surgery group at 1 year (six of 168 [3.6%] versus 13 of 187 [6.9%] in the medical group, p = 0.158), but the two groups were similar at 3 and 5 years. 
Hearing aid evaluation and fitting. Although many patients with hearing loss benefit from medical or surgical intervention, the vast majority have noncorrectable hearing disorders for which rehabilitation through amplification is indicated. There are three goals for the application of hearing aids: (1) to amplify normal conversational speech to levels that are maximally understandable to the patient; (2) to help the patient hear other environmental sounds; and (3) to assist in the educational or habilitative process for those children who sustain hearing loss prior to language and speech development. In addition, there are certain issues that require medical consideration when a wearable device is placed in the ear. This article describes current hearing aid technology; reviews its benefits, limitations, and application for typical patients; discusses the medical aspects of hearing aid fitting; and describes new hearing aid technology on the horizon. 
Androgen receptor gene mutations in X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy. X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (Kennedy's disease) is an adult-onset form of motorneuron disease which may be associated with signs of androgen insensitivity. We have now investigated whether the androgen receptor gene on the proximal long arm of the X chromosome is a candidate gene for this disease. In patient samples we found androgen receptor gene mutations with increased size of a polymorphic tandem CAG repeat in the coding region. These amplified repeats were absolutely associated with the disease, being present in 35 unrelated patients and none of 75 controls. They segregated with the disease in 15 families, with no recombination in 61 meioses (the maximum log likelihood ratio (lod score) is 13.2 at a recombination rate of 0). The association is unlikely to be due to linkage disequilibrium, because 11 different disease alleles were observed. We conclude that enlargement of the CAG repeat in the androgen receptor gene is probably the cause of this disorder. 
High energy underwater shock wave treatment on implanted urinary bladder cancer in rabbits. The effects of focused high energy shock waves (SW) on the implanted urinary bladder cancer in rabbits were examined. The bladder cancer was exposed to 2000 to 8000 shots of focused SW under ultrasound guidance. Although only focal necrosis of the tumor was seen in the one day SW exposure, wider and deeper tumor necrosis was observed in the tumors following serial SW (2000 to 6000 shots, for two to three days). Eight to 10 day serial SW exposure (6000 to 8000 shots) decreased the tumor growth in comparison with that of the control. Lung metastases examined by periodic chest X-ray after SW treatment revealed that SW did not promote lung metastases. Pathological findings were also in accord with the X-ray examinations. Polyclonal antibody type 4 collagen was used for immunohistochemical staining of vascular wall in bladder cancer. Vascular wall destruction, not found in spontaneous necrotic tumor, were clearly visible in SW induced necrotic area. SW induces vascular damage in the tumor, which may be the primary cause promoting the tumor necrosis. 
Tinnitus. Tinnitus, a common complaint, reportedly affects more than 37 million Americans. Most often, it is associated with a sensorineural hearing loss in the high-frequency range. Tinnitus, however, is a symptom and not a disease. Complacency about this symptom complex may cause physicians to overlook a severe underlying pathologic process. Patients with unilateral tinnitus, pulsatile tinnitus, fluctuating tinnitus, or tinnitus associated with vertigo should undergo thorough assessment, including elicitation of a complete history, physical examination, and audiologic analysis. In many instances, treatment is effective. Masking of tinnitus, medical therapy, and biofeedback and counseling are some measures that have been used in the management of tinnitus. 
Comparison of a single layer continuous hand-sewn method and circular stapling in 580 oesophageal anastomoses. A total of 611 patients with carcinoma of the oesophagus or gastric cardia were operated on between July 1982 and December 1989. Resection was performed in 491 patients (one-stage, 483; two-stage, eight), bypass operation in 97, and 23 had exploration alone. The anastomoses of 580 patients with one-stage resection and bypass operations were evaluated. Hand-sewn anastomosis using a single layer of continuous absorbable monofilament suture was performed in 304 patients (221 resections and 83 bypasses). A stapled anastomosis was performed on 276 patients (262 resections and 14 bypasses). Following resection, there were 11 (5 per cent) anastomotic leaks in the hand-sewn group and ten (3.8 per cent) in the stapled anastomosis group (P = 0.69). Excluding anastomotic leaks, hospital mortality and anastomotic recurrence, stricture occurred in 18 of 172 hand-sewn anastomoses (10.5 per cent) and in 57 of 195 stapled anastomoses (29.2 per cent) (P less than 0.001). In patients who had bypass operations there were 12 anastomotic leaks, ten in the hand-sewn group (12.0 per cent) and two in the stapled anastomosis group (14.3 per cent). Only two of the discharged patients with bypass developed anastomotic strictures, a low incidence probably because of short survival. In addition, there were 245 subsidiary anastomoses made in the abdomen by the hand-sewn method as part of the reconstructive procedure, and there was one leak. The results of this non-randomized study suggest that hand-sewn anastomosis using a single layer continuous technique for the oesophagus is as safe as the use of circular staplers; hand-sewn anastomosis is less likely to become stenotic. 
Allele loss at the retinoblastoma locus in human ovarian cancer. To gain a broad spectrum on allelic loss of specific loci in ovarian tumors, we initially examined DNA from 23 pairs of ovarian tumors and matched peripheral blood lymphocyte samples from the same patients, using 27 polymorphic DNA markers distributed on 13 chromosomes. Significant high frequency of allelic deletion (22%-44%) at chromosome 13 loci (D13S31, D13S32, D13S33, and D13S34) at bands q12-q34 was observed in tumor tissues. These results led us to investigate the loss of heterozygosity at the retinoblastoma (RB) locus in ovarian tumors, because the RB gene is a tumor-suppressor gene located at 13q14. Analysis of the variable number of tandem repeat sequence polymorphism in intron 20 in the RB gene revealed that 6 (30%) of 20 patients with informative samples showed allelic loss at the RB locus in their tumor tissues. This loss, of relatively high frequency, suggests that the RB gene, or a closely linked gene, seems to be involved in the development of ovarian cancer. 
Radioiodinated 1-(5-iodo-5-deoxy-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl)-2-nitroimidazole (iodoazomycin arabinoside: IAZA): a novel marker of tissue hypoxia. 1-(5-Iodo-5-deoxy-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl)-2-nitroimidazole (IAZA) has been synthesised and labeled with 125I. Radioiodinated IAZA was shown to undergo hypoxia-dependent binding in EMT-6 cells in vitro and to have an initial binding rate of 284 pmole/10(6) cells/hr at a substrate concentration of 30 microM. This binding rate is more than three times that of the reference compound, misonidazole (89 pmole/10(6) cells/hr). The elevated binding rate was accompanied by in vitro cytotoxicity 30-40 times greater than that observed for misonidazole. Whole-body elimination and biodistribution studies in BALB/c mice bearing implanted, subcutaneous EMT-6 tumors showed a rapid excretion (greater than 98% in 24 hr) with moderate tissue levels which, in general, declined as a function of blood clearance. Tumor-to-blood ratios of 4.6 (4 hr) and 8.7 (8 hr), with respective tumor uptake values of 2.08% and 1.22% ID/g of tissue, form a rational basis for evaluation of this and related 2-nitroimidazole analogs as radiopharmaceuticals suitable for scintigraphic evaluation of tissue (tumor) hypoxia. 
Gynecologic cytology. Practical considerations and limitations. Diagnostic problems arise as a result of overlap of cytologic criteria of some squamous and glandular lesions of the female genital tract, lack of experience, or an overzealous attempt to interpret some features. This article emphasizes the role and limitations of cytology in the diagnosis of neoplasia and preneoplasia of squamous and glandular elements of the uterus. Sampling techniques greatly influence the pathologist's ability to interpret the material. The classifications and cytologic features of preneoplastic and neoplastic squamous and glandular epithelia, including the new Bethesda System for reporting, are reviewed. Problems in interpretation, particularly of nondysplastic conditions that mimic true neoplasia, and reasons for false-negative and false-positive results are discussed. 
Amnestic effects in mice of four synthetic peptides homologous to amyloid beta protein from patients with Alzheimer disease. Immediate post-training intracerebroventricular administration of a synthetic peptide homologous to beta protein of brain amyloid, [Gln11]beta-(1-28), caused amnesia for footshock active avoidance training in mice in a dose-dependent fashion. This effect was specific to memory processing since the peptide did not cause amnesia when injected 24 hr after training nor did it disturb storage or retrieval of older memories. Shorter fragments of the amyloid beta protein consisting of residues 12-28, 18-28, and 12-20 also were amnestic when given intracerebroventricularly, residues 12-20 being least effective. The hippocampus, a brain structure importantly involved in learning and memory, consistently shows severe pathological changes and deposition of amyloid in patients with Alzheimer disease. Immediate post-training bilateral intrahippocampal injection of [Gln11]beta-(1-28) produced amnesia at much lower doses than did [Gln11]beta-(1-28) injected intracerebroventricularly. Thus these experimental results suggest a possible direct role of amyloid beta protein or fragments thereof in an aspect of the spectrum of cognitive deficit in Alzheimer disease. 
Caffeine self-administration, withdrawal, and adverse effects among coffee drinkers. Twenty-two coffee drinkers (three to seven cups per day) underwent repeated double-blind trials to test for caffeine self-administration, withdrawal, and adverse effects. Each trial consisted first of a randomized crossover period of 1 day of decaffeinated coffee and 1 day of caffeinated coffee (100 mg) to assess withdrawal and adverse effects of caffeine. Next, subjects were given 2 days of concurrent access to the two coffees. The relative use of the two coffees was used to assess caffeine self-administration. Reliable caffeine self-administration occurred in three of 10 subjects in study 1 and seven of 12 subjects in study 2. Withdrawal symptoms were headaches, drowsiness, and fatigue. The major adverse effect from self-administration was tremulousness. The occurrence of headaches on substitution of decaffeinated coffee prospectively predicted subsequent self-administration of caffeine. These results indicate that some coffee drinkers exhibit signs of a caffeine dependence, ie, they self-administer coffee for the effects of caffeine, have withdrawal symptoms on cessation, and experience adverse effects. 
Five-day bismuth-free triple therapy for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori and reduction of duodenal ulcer relapse. Previous studies have demonstrated that the eradication of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is associated with a significant reduction of the rate of duodenal ulcer (DU) relapse. The aim of this study was to assess the long-term effect of a bismuth-free triple therapy on the eradication of H. pylori and reduction of DU relapse. After informed consent, 61 patients with endoscopically proven DU and H. pylori infection detected on 14C-urea breath test (BT) were included in the study. All patients received a combination of furazolidone, amoxicillin, and metronidazole, three times a day, for 5 days, in addition to eventual classical antiulcer agents prescribed by their attending physicians. BT was repeated after an interval of at least 60 days to evaluate H. pylori eradication. Endoscopy and another BT were performed again at 6.5 months after therapy to detect possible recurrences. Forty-eight patients completed the trial: 26 (54%) patients were negative for H. pylori at 6.5 months after the end of treatment, and 22 (46%) persisted H. pylori positive. Ninety-two percent of the patients in whom the bacteria were eradicated showed endoscopically healed ulcers and were asymptomatic, and two that were symptomatic presented only occasional pain not requiring therapy. Among the 22 patients who persisted H. pylori positive, six (27%) showed endoscopically active ulcers (p = 0.012) and eight (36%) patients continued to be symptomatic (p less than 0.01), and were still using antiulcer drugs (p = 0.002) 6.5 months after treatment. It is concluded that combined treatment with furazolidone, amoxicillin, and metronidazole for 5 days represents a well-tolerated, inexpensive, and effective therapeutic regime for the eradication of H. pylori and abolition of DU relapse in more than 50% of the patients during a follow-up period of 6.5 months. 
Plasmapheresis does not increase the risk for infection in immunosuppressed patients with severe lupus nephritis. The Lupus Nephritis Collaborative Study Group. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether plasmapheresis increases the risk for infection in immunosuppressed patients. DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial. SETTING: Multicenter. PATIENTS: Eighty-six patients enrolled in a trial of plasmapheresis for severe diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis. INTERVENTIONS: Forty-six of the patients received high-dose steroid therapy plus cyclophosphamide therapy for 8 weeks. Thereafter, cyclophosphamide therapy was discontinued, and steroid therapy was tapered (standard treatment group). Forty patients received identical treatment and had 12 plasmapheresis procedures during the first 4 weeks of the treatment. MEASUREMENTS: Patients were examined for the development of infection. MAIN RESULTS: No statistical difference in age, sex, race, serum creatinine level, proteinuria, or complement levels was found between the two groups. Over a follow-up period of 5376 patient-weeks, 74% of patients in the standard treatment group had 62 infections, yielding an aggregate infection rate of 1.15 infections per 100 weeks (median individual infection rate, 1.08; 25th and 75th percentiles, 0.0 and 2.44). This rate was comparable to that seen in the plasmapheresis-treated patients who were followed for 4187 patient-weeks: 68% had 51 infections, for an aggregate infection rate of 1.22 infections per 100 weeks (median individual infection rate, 0.94; 25th and 75th percentiles, 0.0 and 2.32). The infection rate was also comparable in the initial acute phase of the study, despite the fact that patients who received plasmapheresis then had significantly lower immunoglobulin (IgG) levels (P less than 0.001). Neither the site (superficial compared with systemic) nor the nature (conventional compared with unconventional) of infection differed statistically between the two groups. Of 14 patient deaths, 7 were from infection (4 in control group and 3 in the plasmapheresis group). CONCLUSION: Plasmapheresis did not increase the risk for infection in immunosuppressed patients with severe lupus nephritis. 
Anti-tumor activities of immunotoxins made of monoclonal antibody B3 and various forms of Pseudomonas exotoxin [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Jun 1;88(11):5066] B3 is a monoclonal antibody that reacts with a carbohydrate epitope present on a variety of proteins located on the surface of many cancer cells and a limited number of normal tissues. We evaluated the cytotoxic activity of immunotoxins composed of monoclonal antibody B3 coupled to native Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE) or two recombinant forms of Pseudomonas exotoxin, PEArg57 or LysPE40, a form of PE with a deletion of the cell binding domain. All three conjugates were cytotoxic to human cell lines expressing the B3 antigen on their surface. The survival of each of the three immunotoxins in the circulation of mice was determined after administering the immunotoxin i.v. The half-life in blood of B3-PE and B3-PEArg57 was 20 hr, whereas the half-life of B3-LysPE40 was 4 hr. The short half-life of B3-LysPE40 may be due to the absence of domain I of PE. To determine the therapeutic effects of the three immunotoxins, they were given intraperitoneally to nude mice bearing subcutaneous A431 tumors. All three immunotoxins caused complete regression of 50-mm3 tumors with no toxic effects to the animals at therapeutic doses. Furthermore, substantial regression was also noted with much larger tumors. Our data indicate that the monoclonal antibody B3, when coupled to PE or recombinant forms of PE, may be useful for the treatment of tumors expressing B3 antigen. The therapeutic window was largest with B3-LysPE40, which can be administered in higher doses because it lacks sequences in domain I of PE that enable PE to bind to nontarget cells. 
Prognostic impact of stress testing in coronary artery disease. Observational data prospectively collected permit the examination of a complex set of decisions, including the decision not to perform any stress testing. Patients with or without previous myocardial infarction admitted for coronary evaluation and not submitted to any stress testing because of clinical reasons are at a higher risk for subsequent death. For prognostication, no test has been better validated than exercise electrocardiography: it can identify patients at low and high risk for future cardiac events among those without symptoms, with typical chest pain, and with previous myocardial infarction. In patients with triple-vessel disease, the results of exercise also allow those at low and high risk to be recognized. Both exercise radionuclide angiography and 201Tl scintigraphy (the latter in larger patient populations) have also demonstrated significant prognostic value on patients with or without previous myocardial infarction. Neither one has shown superiority to the other in prognostication. So far, they have been considered the only viable alternatives to exercise electrocardiography stress testing for diagnosis and prognostication. However, their costs limit their extensive application. Preliminary data suggest that intravenous dipyridamole echocardiography can be used for both diagnosis and prognostication of coronary artery disease; moreover, the prognostic information derived from dipyridamole echocardiography testing seems independent of and additive to that provided by exercise electrocardiography. Further prospective studies on larger patient populations are needed to better define the prognostic value of dipyridamole echocardiography testing. 
Intermittent torsion: association with horizontal lie of the testicle. The importance of making an early diagnosis of intermittent testicular torsion cannot be over-emphasized. We report on 3 patients with recurrent episodes of severe testicular pain but who were pain-free at evaluation. All 3 patients were found to have a horizontal lie of the symptomatic testicle and a normal vertical axis in the contralateral asymptomatic testicle. Scrotal exploration revealed a bell-clapper deformity in all 3 patients. A history of recurrent scrotal pain and horizontal testicular lie, even in the absence of pain at the time of physical examination, is a strong indication for exploration and bilateral testicular fixation. 
Characteristics of cirrhosis undiagnosed during life: a comparative analysis of 73 undiagnosed cases and 149 diagnosed cases of cirrhosis, detected in 4929 consecutive autopsies. In 4929 consecutive autopsies performed during a period of 4 years, 222 cases (4.5%) of cirrhosis were found, of which 149 (3%) were detected while the patients were alive (diagnosed cirrhosis) and 73 (1.5%) were not detected while the patients were living (undiagnosed cirrhosis). Fifty-three of the 73 undiagnosed patients appeared to be completely without signs of cirrhosis (silent cirrhosis). In the diagnosed group, 70% of patients died from hepatic causes, in contrast to 16% in the undiagnosed group. At autopsy, the following complications of cirrhosis were found more frequently in the diagnosed group than in the undiagnosed group: ascites (41% vs. 8%), oesophageal varices (44% vs. 10%), splenomegaly (52% vs. 29%). The prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma did not differ significantly in the two groups (12% vs. 8%). It is concluded that cirrhosis without obvious signs occurs relatively frequently, and that no sensitive non-invasive screening methods are available at present. 
Modeling: optimal marathon performance on the basis of physiological factors. This paper examines current concepts concerning "limiting" factors in human endurance performance by modeling marathon running times on the basis of various combinations of previously reported values of maximal O2 uptake (VO2max), lactate threshold, and running economy in elite distance runners. The current concept is that VO2max sets the upper limit for aerobic metabolism while the blood lactate threshold is related to the fraction of VO2max that can be sustained in competitive events greater than approximately 3,000 m. Running economy then appears to interact with VO2max and blood lactate threshold to determine the actual running speed at lactate threshold, which is generally a speed similar to (or slightly slower than) that sustained by individual runners in the marathon. A variety of combinations of these variables from elite runners results in estimated running times that are significantly faster than the current world record (2:06:50). The fastest time for the marathon predicted by this model is 1:57:58 in a hypothetical subject with a VO2max of 84 ml.kg-1.min-1, a lactate threshold of 85% of VO2max, and exceptional running economy. This analysis suggests that substantial improvements in marathon performance are "physiologically" possible or that current concepts regarding limiting factors in endurance running need additional refinement and empirical testing. 
Prospective study of alcohol consumption and risk of coronary disease in men. Although an inverse association between alcohol consumption and risk of coronary artery disease has been consistently found in several types of studies, some have argued that the association is due at least partly to the inclusion in the non-drinking reference group of men who abstain because of pre-existing disease. The association between self-reported alcohol intake and coronary disease was studied prospectively among 51,529 male health professionals. In 1986 the participants completed questionnaires about food and alcohol intake and medical history, heart disease risk factors, and dietary changes in the previous 10 years. Follow-up questionnaires in 1988 sought information about newly diagnosed coronary disease. 350 confirmed cases of coronary disease occurred. After adjustment for coronary risk factors, including dietary intake of cholesterol, fat, and dietary fibre, increasing alcohol intake was inversely related to coronary disease incidence (p for trend less than 0.001). Exclusion of 10,302 current non-drinkers or 16,342 men with disorders potentially related to coronary disease (eg, hypertension, diabetes, and gout) which might have led men to reduce their alcohol intake, did not substantially affect the relative risks. These findings support the hypothesis that the inverse relation between alcohol consumption and risk of coronary disease is causal. 
EPA in the prevention of restenosis post PTCA. The effect of fish oil on restenosis was evaluated in patients undergoing coronary balloon angioplasty. In addition to routine pharmacotherapy, subjects were given 2.8 g of eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) daily. Treatment was started within twenty-four hours after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). After six months of therapy, participants were subjected to coronary arteriography, exercise scintigraphy, exercise electrocardiography, or clinical evaluation. Follow-up evaluation involved 97 coronary lesions in 85 patients. Partial or significant restenosis occurred in 36.5% of patients and 33% of vessels. The presence of severe stenosis before PTCA, dissection, thrombus, multilesion PTCA, and template bleeding time values were not correlated with restenosis. Dilation of the left anterior descending (LAD) and a residual stenosis greater than or equal to 35% were associated with restenosis. Approximately 20% of the patients related difficulty in taking the fish oil. Furthermore, these results show no advantage over expected restenosis rates. 
Comparison of CT, low-field-strength MR imaging, and high-field-strength MR imaging. Work in progress. To assess objectively the sensitivity and specificity of low-field-strength (0.064 T) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, a prospective blind study of 280 examinations was performed to compare low-field-strength MR imaging with computed tomography (CT) and with high-field-strength (1.5-T) MR imaging of the cranium. The sensitivity (defined as the true-positive rate) with high-field MR imaging was superior to that with low-field MR imaging and CT in helping detect overall abnormalities. Sensitivities were generally similar over a broad range of specific cranial central nervous system diseases. Low-field and high-field MR imaging were equivalent in the blind diagnoses of neoplasms and white matter disease, whereas low-field MR and CT were equivalent in the blind diagnoses of contusion, subdural and epidural hematoma, sinus disease, normality, and abnormality. The specificities with low-field MR imaging and CT were substantially better than those with high-field MR imaging. 
Effect of breast implants on mammography. We developed an experimental, reproducible method of evaluating the radiographic characteristics of breast implants in vitro using a mammographic phantom and a cadaver. Implant shells tested included smooth silicone, textured silicone, and silicone coated with polyurethane foam. Each type of shell was subsequently filled with saline, silicone gel, and peanut oil; the images were recorded radiographically. Textured silicone and smooth silicone shells minimally impair detection of artifacts. Polyurethane-coated shells are less radiolucent but allow visualization of some microcalcifications. Saline and silicone-gel-filled implants are radiopaque regardless of shell type. Textured silicone and smooth silicone shells filled with peanut oil are radiolucent and allow visualization of microcalcifications and most soft-tissue masses. These data demonstrate that radiolucent breast implants are possible, and further efforts are under way to achieve Food and Drug Administration approval for clinical testing. 
Substitution of leucine for isoleucine in a sequence highly conserved among retroviral envelope surface glycoproteins attenuates the lytic effect of the Friend murine leukemia virus. Friend murine leukemia virus is a replication-competent retrovirus that contains no oncogene and that exerts lytic and leukemogenic properties. Thus, newborn mice inoculated with Friend murine leukemia virus develop severe early hemolytic anemia before appearance of erythroleukemia. To identify the retroviral determinants regulating these effects, we used chimeric infectious constructions and site-directed point mutations between a virulent Friend murine leukemia virus strain and a naturally occurring variant attenuated in lytic and leukemogenic effects. We found that severe hemolytic anemia was always associated with higher numbers of blood reticulocytes with budding retroviral particles. Furthermore, a remarkably conservative leucine to isoleucine change in the extracellular SU component of the retroviral envelope was sufficient to attenuate this lytic effect. Also, this leucine at position 348 of the envelope precursor protein was located within the only stretch of five amino acids that is conserved in the extracellular SU component of all murine, feline, and primate type C and type D retroviral envelopes. This observation suggested an important structural function for this yet undescribed conserved sequence of the envelope. Lastly, we observed that lytic and leukemogenic effects were attenuated by a deletion of a second repeat in the transcriptional enhancer region of the viral long terminal repeats of the variant strain. 
The causes and complications of late diagnosis of foreign body aspiration in children. Report of 210 cases. Late diagnoses of foreign body aspiration were defined as occurring beyond 3 days between the aspiration of the foreign body, or onset of symptoms, and correct diagnosis. We reviewed a total of 210 children with late diagnosis of foreign body aspiration. The causes creating late diagnosis of foreign body aspiration in children were as follows: (1) parental negligence (106/210, 50%); (2) misdiagnosis by the fellow professionals and pediatricians (39/210, 19%); (3) the normal chest roentgenographic findings (29/210, 14%); (4) lack of typical symptoms and signs (26/210, 12%); (5) mismanagement (8/210, 4%); and (6) a negative bronchoscopic finding (2/210, 1%). The most common complications encountered were obstructive emphysema (77/186, 41%), mediastinal shift (63/186, 34%), pneumonia (43/186, 24%), and atelectasis (33/186, 18%) in 186 patients who underwent a chest roentgenographic examination. The incidence of major complications was 64% (48/75) in the children who were diagnosed within 4 to 7 days; however, the complication rate was 70% (39/56) in those with a delay in diagnosis of 15 to 30 days, and 95% (20/21) in the cases with a delay in diagnosis of over 30 days after aspirating the foreign bodies. 
Mucin-producing tumor of the pancreas. A new pancreatic tumor, called mucin-producing tumor, has received great attention in Japan. These tumors are found inside the pancreatic duct and produce large quantities of copious mucus. The authors examined 22 cases of these tumors histologically and histochemically. In 12 malignant cases, the tumors inside the ducts consisted of cancerous lesions over small areas along with papillary or atypical hyperplasia. Tumors in ten benign cases mainly consisted of papillary hyperplasia. Except for three patients with carcinoma in situ, cancerous tumors infiltrated the pancreatic parenchyma and, in some cases, were observed invading the bile duct or duodenum. A mucous histochemical study showed evidence of sialomucin in malignant cases; neutral mucin was dominant in benign cases. Characteristics of this disease were also compared with 13 cases of mucinous cystic neoplasm. From the results, it was concluded that these two diseases can be classified into the same conceptual category. 
Hormonal therapy before surgical treatment for uterine leiomyomas. Use of GnRH-A offers a promising medical approach to treating uterine leiomyomas. This therapy can be useful in selected patients, preserving fertility by delaying the need for imminent surgical treatment. In selected perimenopausal women, agonist therapy may, in fact, be an alternative to surgical intervention. Shrinking the size of myomas and reducing uterine volume with these agents have been reported to control symptoms of myoma, making myomectomy or vaginal hysterectomy a safer procedure. Used preoperatively, GnRH-A therapy can also reduce the risk of surgical complications and excessive blood loss. 
The effect of ibuprofen on cardiac performance during abdominal aortic cross-clamping. Decreased cardiac output and increased plasma thromboxane have been observed during aortic cross-clamping under general anesthesia. Amelioration of these changes has been reported by preoperative administration of cyclooxygenase inhibitors, but heterogeneity in patients' intravascular volume status has confounded analysis of the drugs' effects in previous studies. We studied hemodynamic conditions in 24 volume-loaded (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure greater than 10 mm Hg) patients undergoing abdominal aortic aneurysm repair under general plus epidural anesthesia, after preoperative double-blind administration of either ibuprofen 800 mg (n = 12) or placebo (n = 12). The hemodynamic response to aortic cross-clamping was similar in both groups. Pulse and mean arterial pressure remained unchanged; cardiac index decreased after aortic cross-clamping from 2.4 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- standard error of the mean [SEM]) to 2.1 +/- 0.1 1/min/m2 in the ibuprofen group and from 2.5 +/- 0.1 to 2.3 +/- 0.2 1/min/m2 in the placebo group (p less than 0.01 versus preclamp values in both groups, multivariate analysis of variance [MANOVA]), but improved after declamping. Both left and right ventricular stroke work indexes followed a similar pattern. Plasma 6-keto prostaglandin Fl alpha (6-k-PGF1 alpha) increased transiently from a baseline level of 304 +/- 44 to 2083 +/- 698 pg/ml plasma in mixed venous blood 30 minutes after incision in the placebo group (p less than 0.05), but no other significant change in plasma 6-keto prostaglandin Fl alpha or in thromboxane B2 occurred in either group at any other time. 
Rib fractures complicating median sternotomy. The postoperative chest radiographs of 100 consecutive patients undergoing median sternotomy were reviewed for the presence of acute rib fractures. The majority of patients underwent coronary artery bypass grafting. Thirteen patients sustained 15 fractures. Eleven of these fractures were of the left first rib and 7 of the 15 fractures occurred at the costotransverse articulation. The fractures tended to be subtle on the postoperative portable chest radiographs and were initially overlooked in 4 patients. Heavier patients and those with larger body surface areas were more susceptible to the development of fractures. There was no statistical correlation to total operating time, bypass time, or global ischemic time. 
Evaluating genetic association among ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer: evidence for a breast/ovarian cancer relationship. The possibility of a genetic relationship between ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer was investigated in data from a large multicenter, population-based, case-control study, the Cancer and Steroid Hormone Study conducted by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Age-adjusted relative risks (RRs) for mothers and sisters of 493 ovarian cancer cases, 895 breast cancer cases, and 143 endometrial cancer cases versus 4,754 controls were calculated. Significantly elevated age-adjusted RRs were found for ovarian cancer (RR = 2.8; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.6-4.9) and breast cancer (RR = 1.6; 95% CI = 1.1-2.1) among relatives of ovarian cancer probands and for breast cancer (RR = 2.1; 95% CI = 1.7-2.5) and ovarian cancer (RR = 1.7; 95% CI = 1.0-2.0) among relatives of breast cancer probands. Relatives of endometrial cancer probands had an elevated RR for endometrial cancer only (RR = 2.7; 95% CI = 1.6-4.8). The genetic relationship between ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer was tested using a multivariate polygenic threshold model developed by Smith (1976), which was modified to accommodate three classes of probands. Estimates of heritability for ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer were 40%, 56%, and 52%, respectively. There was a significant genetic correlation between ovarian and breast cancer (R12 = .484). Evidence for significant genetic overlap between endometrial cancer and either ovarian or breast cancer was not found. These results suggest the existence of a familial breast/ovarian cancer syndrome. Endometrial cancer, while heritable, appears to be genetically unrelated. 
The safety and efficacy of terazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in blacks. Terazosin, a new selective alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, has been found to be an effective antihypertensive agent. In a series of studies, the safety and efficacy of terazosin, alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents, were evaluated in 1180 black patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Terazosin was effective in lowering blood pressure when administered alone (in dosages of 1 to 80 mg/day) and when prescribed (in dosages of 1 to 20 mg/day) in combination with other antihypertensive agents. In elderly black patients, terazosin, 1 to 10 mg daily, was as effective in lowering blood pressure as propranolol (40 to 120 mg twice daily). Changes (mean +/- SE) in sitting diastolic blood pressure from baseline were -8.1 +/- 1.4 mm Hg for terazosin and -5.0 +/- 1.5 mm Hg for propranolol. Terazosin (5 mg) combined with methyclothiazide (2.5 to 5 mg) produced a significantly greater (p less than 0.01) antihypertensive effect than that of terazosin alone. Changes (mean +/- SE) in standing diastolic blood pressure from baseline were -7.9 +/- 2.0 mm Hg for terazosin alone, -15.1 +/- 2.1 mm Hg for terazosin plus 2.5 mg of methyclothiazide, and -15.0 +/- 2.0 mm Hg for terazosin plus 5 mg of methyclothiazide. Terazosin had a favorable effect on serum lipid levels and appeared to compensate for the negative lipid effects associated with diuretics and beta-blockers when used in combination with these agents. Terazosin, alone and combined with other antihypertensive agents, was well tolerated with minimal side effects in black hypertensive patients. 
Superficial thrombophlebitis diagnosed by duplex scanning. Since July 1982, this noninvasive vascular laboratory has performed 12,856 lower extermity venous duplex examinations. All cases of acute venous thrombosis have been categorized and entered into a computer data base. One thousand four hundred twelve examinations were positive for acute venous thrombosis. This report analyzes the laboratory's entire experience with superficial thrombophlebitis (SVT). One hundred eighty-six patients were diagnosed by duplex scanning to have SVT. Women outnumbered men 99 to 87. They were slightly older (average age 58.4 +/- 16.2 years) compared with the men (53.8 +/- 14.2 years). Men were more likely to have a complicated course of SVT (40% vs 22%; p less than 0.01). Complications included either radiographically documented pulmonary embolism or deep venous involvement. Fifty-seven (31%) patients had at least one complication of SVT. A series of predisposing factors was analyzed and six factors were associated with an increased risk of complications. They are bilateral SVT (p less than 0.01), age greater than 60 years (p less than 0.01), male sex (p less than 0.01), history of deep venous thrombosis (p less than 0.01), bed rest (p less than 0.02), and presence of infection (p less than 0.02). Location of thrombus within the greater saphenous vein (35%) was most likely to be associated with complications. Isolated varicosities (8%) were least likely to be associated with complications. Duplex scanning identifies a significant number of complications of patients with SVT and should be obtained in cases of saphenous vein involvement or in the presence of associated risk factors. 
Effect of Candida albicans plus histamine on prostaglandin E2 production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy women and women with recurrent candidal vaginitis. The in vitro production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in response to viable Candida albicans, histamine, and C. albicans plus histamine was examined. With PBMC from 10 healthy women, C. albicans but not histamine induced PGE2 at a low level (100 pg/ml). However, C. albicans plus histamine acted synergistically to stimulate PGE2 production (448 pg/ml). PBMC from 8 of 10 women with recurrent candidal vaginitis also produced maximal levels of PGE2 in the presence of C. albicans plus histamine. Production of tumor necrosis factor by PBMC from patients and controls was unaffected by histamine in both the presence and absence of C. albicans. However, unlike the controls, PBMC from six of the patients who were atopic and from two nonatopic patients spontaneously released PGE2 in vitro. Addition of 4 or 10 units/ml interferon-gamma inhibited spontaneous and C. albicans-induced PGE2 production by PBMC. These data reinforce the evidence that immediate hypersensitivity responses may be involved in the etiology of recurrent candidal vaginitis. 
Trunk orientation as the determining factor of the 'contralateral' deficit in the neglect syndrome and as the physical anchor of the internal representation of body orientation in space. The present study examines which egocentric coordinate system determines the border between the disturbed 'contralateral' and the normal 'ipsilateral' side in patients with hemineglect. Based on the observation of significantly longer reaction times for saccades towards stimuli presented in the left visual field (LVF) in right brain-damaged patients with hemineglect, stimuli were presented randomly to the LVF or RVF and the corresponding saccadic reaction times (SRTs) were compared. Beginning with the standard body position generally used for the investigation of neglect patients, where the midlines of head, trunk and visual field are parallel and oriented straight towards the middle of the projection screen, the spatial relation between orientation of head and trunk midlines and location of the target stimuli was systematically varied while holding the retinal projection of the stimuli constant. The deficit in SRTs towards the LVF in 4 right brain-damaged patients with left-sided hemineglect could be compensated for by turning the patients' trunk to the left, such that both LVF and RVF-stimuli were projected to the right, ipsilateral side of trunk space. The results suggest that the spatial orientation of the trunk midline divides our normal perception of space into an egocentric 'left' and an egocentric 'right' sector and seems to be the decisive factor for determining the neglected 'contralateral' part of space in patients with brain-damage. They indicate that the trunk midline constitutes the physical anchor for calculation of the internal egocentric coordinate frame for representing body position with respect to external objects. The hypothesis of Ventre et al. (1984) that deficient reactions to contralaterally located stimuli in neglect patients could be the result of a displacement of these egocentric coordinates towards the non-neglected, ipsilateral side is discussed. 
Perioperative stroke. Part II: Cardiac surgery and cardiogenic embolic stroke. The major mechanism of stroke in cardiac surgery is embolization. The risk is higher in intracardiac than in extracardiac surgery. The incidence of stoke associated with CABG is about 5%. The cerebral protective properties of isoflurane and thiopentone, acid-base management, and monitoring of cerebral perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass are discussed. Prophylactic carotid endarterectomy for patients with asymptomatic carotid disease before cardiac surgery is not necessary. Symptomatic carotid disease increases the risk of stroke, and the management of patients who have both symptomatic coronary and carotid artery diseases is discussed. Cardiogenic embolism is probably responsible for many perioperative strokes. Patients with atrial fibrillation, valvular disease, and prosthetic heart valves are at high risk of cardiogenic embolism. Strokes associated with cardioversion, pacemaker insertion, coronary arteriography and angioplasty are explored. 
Chemotherapy of metastatic and/or recurrent undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma with cisplatin, bleomycin, and fluorouracil. Undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma (UCNT) is known to be radiosensitive and chemosensitive, but the latter has never been studied prospectively with phase II methodology. After an intensive work-up, 49 patients with recurrent (REC) and/or metastatic (MTS) UCNT were treated with three monthly cycles of cisplatin (CDDP) 100 mg/m2 day 1; bleomycin 15 mg intravenously (IV) day 1, and 16 mg/m2/d continuous infusion (CI) days 1 to 5; and fluorouracil (5FU) 650 mg/m2/d CI days 1 to 5 (PBF). Of the 49 patients, 33 were North African. The sex ratio was three males:one female, and the median World Health Organization (WHO) performance status was 1.6. In the 48 patients assessable for response, we observed nine (19%) complete responses (CRs) and 29 (60%) partial responses (PRs) (60%), for a 79% overall response rate (95% confidence interval, 68% to 90%) in the assessable group and a 78% global rate. There were eight CRs (24%) observed in the group without previous chemotherapy (33 patients) compared with one CR in the chemotherapy pretreated group (16 patients). Four patients are still alive without evidence of disease after 52+, 54+, 58+, and 58+ months, respectively. All of them had less than three bone MTS sites, and received radiation therapy in these sites. The results confirm the chemosensitivity of UCNT, and the observation of unmaintained long-term responders makes curability a possible consideration. 
Effect of denervation or unweighting on GLUT-4 protein in rat soleus muscle. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the decreased capacity for glucose transport in the denervated rat soleus and the increased capacity for glucose transport in the unweighted rat soleus are related to changes in the expression of the regulatable glucose transporter protein in skeletal muscle (GLUT-4). One day after sciatic nerve sectioning, when decreases in the stimulation of soleus 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) uptake by insulin (-51%, P less than 0.001), contractions (-29%, P less than 0.05), or insulin and contractions in combination (-40%, P less than 0.001) were observed, there was a slight (-18%, NS) decrease in GLUT-4 protein. By day 3 of denervation, stimulation of 2-DG uptake by insulin (-74%, P less than 0.001), contractions (-31%, P less than 0.001), or the two stimuli in combination (-59%, P less than 0.001), as well as GLUT-4 protein (-52%, P less than 0.001), was further reduced. Soleus muscle from hindlimb-suspended rats, which develops an enhanced capacity for insulin-stimulated glucose transport, showed muscle atrophy similar to denervated soleus but, in contrast, displayed substantial increases in GLUT-4 protein after 3 (+35%, P less than 0.05) and 7 days (+107%, P less than 0.001). These results indicate that altered GLUT-4 expression may be a major contributor to the changes in insulin-stimulated glucose transport that are observed with denervation and unweighting. We conclude that muscle activity is an important factor in the regulation of GLUT-4 expression in skeletal muscle. 
Donor limb vascular events following femoro-femoral bypass surgery. A Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study. Three hundred seventeen patients who had femorofemoral bypass surgery were examined for postoperative vascular changes that developed in the donor limb. "Unmasked" claudication developed in 7%, new claudication related to a "steal" developed in 3.5%, progression of preoperative claudication developed in 1%, new rest pain developed in 1.7%, and new necrosis developed in 0.7% of patients. Postoperatively, the donor limb ankle-brachial index decreased 0.30 or greater in 3% of the patients, decreased 0.15 to 0.29 in 6%, and decreased 0.10 to 0.14 in 6% of the patients. Only eight patients (3%) had a clinical and hemodynamic steal. Late vascular procedures for donor iliac stenosis were few, resulting in an iliac percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in 3% and inflow bypasses in 3%. Angiographic patterns of donor and recipient limbs were not predictive of "clinical" or "hemodynamic" steal events. Most new donor limb symptoms of claudication were an unmasking of arterial insufficiency previously present in the donor limb that became apparent when the recipient limb was improved. 
Prosthetic replacement of the distal femur for primary bone tumours. Over a 16-year period, 135 custom-made distal femoral prostheses, based on a fully constrained Stanmore-type knee replacement, were used in the treatment of primary malignant or aggressive benign tumours. Survivorship analysis showed a cumulative success rate of 72% at five years and 64% at seven years. Intact prostheses in 91% of the surviving patients gave good or excellent functional results. Deep infection was the major complication, occurring in 6.8% of cases; clinical aseptic loosening occurred in 6.0%. Revision surgery was carried out for loosening and infection, and the early results are encouraging. We conclude that prosthetic replacement of the distal femur can meet the objectives of limb salvage surgery. 
Electrophysiologic recording and thermodynamic modeling demonstrate that helium-neon laser irradiation does not affect peripheral Adelta- or C-fiber nociceptors. The effect of helium-neon laser irradiation (632.5 nm) on A delta- and C-fiber sensory afferents was investigated in the rabbit cornea, to determine the physiologic basis for reports that low power (0.1-5 mW) helium-neon (He-Ne) lasers produce acute analgesia and alleviate chronic pain. Multiple and single unit extracellular recordings from nociceptive corneal afferent nerves (C-fiber cold, C-fiber chemical, A delta mechanical and A delta bimodal) were used to study the effects of He-Ne laser radiation upon the electrophysiologic responses to mechanical, thermal, chemical and electrical stimulation of the cornea. Action potentials were analyzed for latency, amplitude, rise time, duration and frequency. Exposure of the neural receptive field and/or nerve bundle to a 4-mm diameter He-Ne laser (0-5 mW; 0-1800 sec) did not alter spontaneous or evoked neural activity. In addition, single unit action potential parameters were not altered by laser irradiation. Modeling of thermal changes produced by He-Ne radiation on corneal nerves indicated that effects predicted for receptor and axonal depths in both skin and cornea were minimal (less than 0.15 degrees C) and unlikely to alter sensory transduction or transmission. 
Brain tumor resection aided with markers placed using stereotaxis guided by magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography. In the operative resection of brain tumors, defining and locating edges of deep-seated tumors or those with indistinct color and consistency can be difficult. This report presents a simple yet precise, alternative method, using the basic Brown-Roberts-Wells or Cosman-Roberts-Wells stereotactic frame, for placement of visual markers to aid in tumor resections. The method can also be extended to the Leksell system. Using routine computed tomographic scanning or magnetic resonance imaging after stereotactic frame application, multiple points along tumor edges were used as target points. In the operating room, standard techniques were used for the skin incision, removal of the bone flap, and opening the dura. At each target point, after opening the dura and using stereotactic coordinates and equipment, a microbiopsy forceps was used to place "micropatties" (each with a string tail) or small catheters with pledgets or catheter tips located at tumor edges. After removing the arc, the tumor resection was accomplished in a conventional nonstereotactic manner by simply following string tails or catheters to the tumor. Gross tumor edges were determined from positions of actual patties or catheter tips. These simple but accurate techniques offer the possibility of tumor resections under stereotactic guidance with equipment readily available to most neurosurgeons. The fidelity of marker placement is also maintained in relation to tumor edges despite shifts in the tumor and/or brain as cystic areas are drained or large amounts of the tumor are resected. 
Strut fracture after Greenfield filter placement. We present the unusual event of strut fracture of a Greenfield filter. This being an extremely rare complication, we postulate a possible cause of fracture and present a review of literature. 
Primary hyperaldosteronism due to a functional black (pigmented) adenoma of the adrenal cortex. The clinical and pathologic findings are reported in a case of primary hyperaldosteronism due to a functional black (pigmented) adenoma of the adrenal cortex. Cortical atrophy of the involved gland was present, the mechanism of which was obscure. 
Prevention of fetal growth retardation with low-dose aspirin: findings of the EPREDA trial. The efficacy of low-dose aspirin in preventing fetal growth retardation was tested in a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. A secondary aim was to find out whether dipyridamole improves the efficacy of aspirin. 323 women at 15-18 weeks' amenorrhoea were selected at twenty-five participating centres on the basis of fetal growth retardation and/or fetal death or abruptio placentae in at least one previous pregnancy. They were randomly allocated to groups receiving placebo, 150 mg/day aspirin, or 150 mg/day aspirin plus 225 mg/day dipyridamole, for the remainder of the pregnancy. In the first phase of the trial all actively treated patients (n = 156) were compared with the placebo group (n = 73). Mean birthweight was significantly higher in the treated than in the placebo group (2751 [SD 670] vs 2526 [848] g; difference 225 g [95% CI 129-321 g], p = 0.029) and the frequency of fetal growth retardation in the placebo group was twice that in the treated group (19 [26%] vs 20 [13%]; p less than 0.02). The frequencies of stillbirth (4 [5%] vs 2 [1%]) and abruptio placentae (6 [8%] vs 7 [5%]) were also higher in the placebo than in the treated group. The benefits of aspirin treatment were greater in patients with two or more previous poor outcomes than in those with only one. In the second analysis, of aspirin only (n = 127) vs aspirin plus dipyridamole (n = 119), no significant differences were found. There was no excess of maternal or neonatal side-effects in the aspirin-treated patients. 
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide inhibits c-myc expression and growth of human gastric carcinoma cells. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is a gut neuroendocrine polypeptide that increases cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production in cells with VIP receptors. Some gastrointestinal cancer cells possess functional receptors for VIP; however, the role of VIP in regulation of growth of gastric cancer cells has not been determined. The purpose of this study was to determine whether VIP and other agents that increase cAMP regulate growth of a human gastric cancer cell line (AGS) and whether these agents regulate expression of c-myc proto-oncogene, which is required for cell proliferation. We measured levels of cAMP by radioimmunoassay, and we used Northern blot analysis to examine c-myc messenger RNA expression. Cell-growth studies were carried out in media supplemented with 3% serum, and cells were counted with a Coulter counter. We found that VIP significantly increased cAMP production of AGS cells in a dose-dependent manner, whereas secretin, glucagon, and peptide histidine methionine (PHM) did not stimulate cAMP production. Exogenous cAMP (8-bromo-cAMP) inhibited AGS cell growth in a dose-dependent manner. VIP acted synergistically with either isobutylmethyl-xanthine or forskolin to inhibit AGS cell proliferation. The increased c-myc expression, which was induced by serum, was inhibited by simultaneous treatment with VIP and isobutylmethyl-xanthine. We have found that AGS cells have specific, functional VIP receptors (activation of which are negatively correlated with cell growth) and that the mechanism by which VIP acts to inhibit cell growth appears to be due, in part, to cAMP-dependent regulation of c-myc proto-oncogene expression. 
Leukotrienes as mediators in ischemia-reperfusion injury in a microcirculation model in the hamster. Leukotriene (LT)B4 promotes leukocyte chemotaxis and adhesion to the endothelium of postcapillary venules. The cysteinyl leukotrienes, LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4, elicit macromolecular leakage from this vessel segment. Both leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium and macromolecular leakage from postcapillary venules hallmark the microcirculatory failure after ischemia-reperfusion, suggesting a role of leukotrienes as mediators of ischemia-reperfusion injury. Using the dorsal skinfold chamber model for intravital fluorescence microscopy of the microcirculation in striated muscle in awake hamsters and sequential RP-HPLC and RIA for leukotrienes, we demonstrate in this study that (a) the leukotrienes (LT)B4 and LTD4 elicit leukocyte/endothelium interaction and macromolecular leakage from postcapillary venules, respectively, that (b) leukotrienes accumulate in the tissue after ischemia and reperfusion, and that (c) selective inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis (by MK-886) prevents both postischemic leukotriene accumulation and the microcirculatory changes after ischemia-reperfusion, while blocking of LTD4/E4 receptors (by MK-571) inhibits postischemic macromolecular leakage. These results demonstrate a key role of leukotrienes in ischemia-reperfusion injury in striated muscle in vivo. 
Intellectual outcome in children with maple syrup urine disease. We report a controlled study of intellectual outcome in 16 children with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) that compares the outcome of MSUD diagnosed after symptoms became apparent with that of MSUD diagnosed prospectively and in unaffected siblings and parents. The mean IQ (+/- SD) score in the children with classic MSUD was 78 +/- 24; however, there were two discrete groups: one with normal IQ (greater than 84) whose MSUD had been diagnosed at a mean age of 3.5 days and a second group, with IQ below normal, whose MSUD was diagnosed at a mean of 10 days of age. Affected children treated presymptomatically had higher IQ scores than their affected siblings treated when their disease was symptomatic. Multiple regression analysis indicated that the important influences on IQ were age at the time of diagnosis and long-term metabolic control; control at the time of testing also might have affected performance. The mean score of unaffected siblings was 92 +/- 5 and the mean parental IQ was 83 +/- 9. The mean IQ scores of children with variant MSUD, 97 +/- 4, was similar to that of their parents, 103 +/- 6. This study was not longitudinal and thus could not identify subtle developmental learning problems. We conclude that early and meticulous treatment of MSUD can result in intellectually normal children. 
Ig gene rearrangements on individual alleles of Abelson murine leukemia cell lines from (C57BL/6 x BALB/c) F1 fetal livers. We have previously shown that selection of Ig H chain V region genes used by colonies obtained from splenic B cells and fetal liver pre-B cells was dependent on strain-specific factors. Moreover, by examining the V gene usage in strains congenic at the Igh locus, we also determined that the strain-specific factor was encoded by sequences lying outside of the Igh locus. We decided to examine whether there are differences in Vh gene rearrangement between alleles in an F1 strain. To do this analysis we chose to examine the relative Ig H chain V region gene usage of pre-B cell lines derived from (C57BL/6 x BALB/c)F1 fetal liver cells by Southern blot analysis. We found a high frequency of Vh-gene rearrangements (77% of the alleles had VDJ rearrangements) and these rearrangements occurred to Vh-genes throughout the Vh locus and were not confined to the D-proximal Vh-genes as has been previously observed with lines from other mouse strains. The Vh-gene usage pattern is similar on both alleles indicating that at least one of the determinants of which Vh-gene is used is trans-acting and acts similarly on each allele. Furthermore, one allele, Ighb (donated by the C57BL/6 parent), rearranged Vh-genes more frequently than the other allele, Igha (donated by the BALB/c parent) suggesting that one of the determinants of Vh-gene rearrangement may be acting in an allele-specific manner. 
Peripheral pulmonary adenoid cystic carcinoma with substantial submucosal extension to the proximal bronchus. A rare case of a peripheral pulmonary adenoid cystic carcinoma is presented. Histological examination after lobectomy showed pronounced submucosal invasion of the carcinoma to proximal bronchi. 
Aortic dissection type A surgery: Doppler sonography to evaluate correct carotid artery perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass. In the surgery of acute aortic type A dissection we have employed preoperative and intraoperative Doppler sonography, to check safe and correct perfusion of the carotid arteries by the cardiopulmonary bypass before instituting cardiac arrest. Ten patients, operated upon for acute aortic type A dissection, were evaluated by means of Doppler sonography and in two patients a very abnormal flow pattern was found in the carotid arteries at the moment of aortic cross-clamping; immediate unclamping allowed temporary antegrade carotid perfusion, while the perfusion technique was readjusted. We report our experience with preoperative and intraoperative Doppler sonography, which appears to be a valuable new method of improving the surgical management of acute aortic type A dissection. 
Randomized comparative trial of indomethacin and ritodrine for the long-term treatment of preterm labor. A randomized prospective trial was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of ritodrine and indomethacin in the long-term treatment of preterm labor. Forty patients with intact membranes in preterm labor at 23 to 34 weeks' gestation were randomized to receive either intravenous ritodrine or oral indomethacin as the first-line tocolytic agent. Successful intravenous ritodrine therapy was followed by oral terbutaline therapy, and indomethacin-treated patients continued to receive oral indomethacin. Treatment failures were defined as progressive preterm labor or patient intolerance, and these patients were treated with intravenous magnesium sulfate. Ritodrine and indomethacin were equally successful in delaying preterm birth as defined by interval to delivery, gestational age at delivery, delivery delayed greater than 7 days, attainment of 35 weeks of gestation, percentage of patients who required magnesium sulfate therapy, percentage of patients who were readmitted with premature rupture of membranes, absence of recurrent preterm labor, and infant birth weight. More than 80% of mothers who received ritodrine voiced complaints of beta-sympathomimetic side effects, and one patient discontinued treatment as the result of intolerance. There were minimal patient complaints with indomethacin use. No statistically significant differences were noted in neonatal outcome as defined by Apgar scores, umbilical cord pH, intensive care days, ventilator days, or neonatal deaths. However, three cases of primary pulmonary hypertension were observed in the indomethacin group. We had not previously observed this problem with short-term (24 to 48 hours) indomethacin therapy. 
Interleukin-2 immunotherapy followed by resection of residual renal cell carcinoma. We administered 10 (E5) units per kg. interleukin-2, 3 times daily, with or without lymphokine-activated killer cells, to 10 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. All patients had metastases to the lung, and 3 of 5 patients who had previously undergone nephrectomy had metastases to the renal fossa. Of the 9 patients who completed at least 1 course of therapy 3 had complete regression of disease outside the abdomen, including 2 who were rendered disease-free after subsequent cytoreductive surgery (nephrectomy in 1 and resection of the renal fossa recurrence in 1). Viable tumor comprised less than 1% of each surgical specimen. Our results support the view that initial treatment with interleukin-2 immunotherapy, followed by abdominal cytoreductive surgery if the peripheral metastases have regressed, may be preferable to the practice of performing abdominal cytoreductive surgery before administering interleukin-2 immunotherapy for patients with widely metastatic renal cell carcinoma. 
Specific adoptive immunotherapy mediated by tumor-draining lymph node cells sequentially activated with anti-CD3 and IL-2. Lymph nodes (LN) draining progressively growing tumors contain tumor-sensitized but not fully functional preeffector lymphocytes. These cells could acquire therapeutic efficacy and be expanded upon sequential culture with anti-CD3 mAb for 2 days followed by incubation in IL-2 for 3 days. Using the weakly immunogenic MCA 106 and MCA 205 murine sarcomas, we have further defined conditions of this anti-CD3/IL-2 activation with which preeffector cells differentiated into immune effector cells. In vitro activation and expansion of effector cells required sequential but independent stimulation with anti-CD3 and IL-2 because the simultaneous presence of both anti-CD3 and IL-2 at either stage did not enhance the efficacy of activation. Generation of effector cells by this two-stage activation was critically dependent on the optimal concentrations of anti-CD3 (1.0 microgram/ml) and IL-2 (2-10 U/ml). However, these conditions were not optimal for inducing the greatest cellular proliferation. In adoptive immunotherapy experiments, although the transfer of anti-CD3/IL-2-activated cells alone could mediate the regression of established metastases, the concomitant administration of IL-2 enhanced the in vivo activity of these cells. More importantly, tumor regression mediated by the anti-CD3/IL-2-activated cells was found to be immunologically specific. The specificity was determined by the tumor that stimulated the preeffector cell response. In spite of their in vivo antitumor effects, the anti-CD3/IL-2-activated tumor-draining LN cells did not exhibit detectable in vitro cytotoxicity against the tumor target in the 4-h 51Cr-release assay. In mice bearing progressive tumor, draining LN contained most preeffector cells. Some preeffector cells were also detected in the spleen whereas mesenteric LN did not demonstrate any reactivity. In kinetics studies, sensitization of preeffector cells in the draining LN occurred between 4 to 6 days after tumor inoculation. As the tumor progressed, the presence of preeffector cells declined gradually suggesting a tumor-induced suppression. These results define the conditions whereby tumor-draining LN cells could be stimulated, in the absence of tumor Ag, to develop into specific therapeutic effector cells. Our findings also raise the possibility of using similar approaches for isolating immune effector cells from cancer patients for adoptive immunotherapy. 
Studying whole-mounted sections of the paranasal sinuses to understand the complications of endoscopic sinus surgery. Endoscopic techniques for paranasal sinus surgery have allowed detailed and complete removal of sinus disease while promising minimum distress to the patient. The telescopic view of the operative field shows detail of the sinus anatomy and its disease, not possible in earlier transnasal techniques. Several articles document the serious complications seen with the endoscopic surgery. To understand the paranasal sinuses and their relationships to the orbit and cribriform plate, blocks of cadaver heads that included the orbit and paranasal sinuses were whole sectioned. It has been possible to see areas of the cribriform and orbital wall that are at risk to produce cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea and orbital complications. At the same time, landmarks for avoiding these complications can be defined to guide the surgeon during this dissection as seen through the endoscope. 
Prognostic significance of anticentromere antibodies and anti-topoisomerase I antibodies in Raynaud's disease. A prospective study. Seventy-seven patients with Raynaud's disease were studied for a mean of 4 years (range 1-11 years) to determine the relationship between autoantibodies and long-term clinical outcome. Anticentromere antibodies (ACA) were assayed by indirect immunofluorescence and by immunoblotting of HeLa cell chromosome extracts. Antibodies to topoisomerase I (anti-topo I) were assayed by immunodiffusion and immunoblotting. Antibodies to the major centromeric protein, CENP-B, and anti-topo I were studied by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Eight patients developed telangiectasias, 4 developed skin tightening, and 4 developed a connective tissue disease other than scleroderma. The presence of ACA at the start of the study was associated with the development of telangiectasias (P less than 0.003). An initial 100-kd band on immunoblot in conjunction with a positive anti-topo I ELISA result was associated with the development of tight skin (P less than 0.0025), while a 100-kd band with a negative anti-topo I ELISA result was associated with the subsequent development of a connective tissue disease other than scleroderma (P less than 0.0073). Patients who were initially ACA positive, had the 100-kd band on immunoblot, or had positive ELISA results for anti-topo I or for anti-CENP-B were 63-fold more likely to develop signs of connective tissue disease by the end of the study (P less than 0.000009). The presence of any of these autoantibodies was more sensitive (100%), although less specific (75%), than were findings from nailfold capillaroscopy (sensitivity 67% and specificity 95%) in predicting subsequent clinical progression. We conclude that findings of assays for anti-topo I and ACA complement the findings from nailfold capillaroscopy in providing useful prognostic information in Raynaud's disease. 
The role of definitive radiation therapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the oral tongue. Between 1968 and 1985, 114 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue were evaluated in the Department of Radiation Oncology at the University of Virginia (Charlottesville, VA); of these, 86 received treatment with curative intent. The majority were treated with radiation therapy alone, whereas the remainder were treated with radiation therapy with preoperative or postoperative surgery. There were 17 T1 primary malignancies, 40 T2, 27 T3, and 2 T4. Clinically positive adenopathy was present in 48% of the patients overall and ranged from 35% in the T1 group to 100% in the T4 group. Twenty-six percent of patients either presented with or later had second malignancies. At 36 months, the patient status was evaluated as dead of disease (37%), dead of intercurrent disease (23%), alive with disease (1%), and alive without evidence of disease (38%). Seventy-five patients received external beam therapy and 32 patients received an implant as either all or part of their treatment. Average doses were in the range of 6000 Gy. Adjusted local control rate at 3 years was not statistically different for different treatment techniques used on either T1 or T2 primary malignancies. The rates were 89% versus 88% for T1 lesions treated with definitive radiation therapy versus postoperative radiation therapy. For T2 primary malignancies, the rates were 67%, 71%, and 83% for the definitive, preoperative, and postoperative radiation therapy groups, respectively. For T3 lesions, there was close to statistical significance with the corresponding rates being 47%, 50%, and 100%, respectively. When the effect of implants was examined for T1 and T2 lesions, no difference in local control rate at 3 years was noticed with or without an implant. Survival was improved for the group presenting with positive neck disease when compared with the N0 group. The external beam severe complication rate was less than 5%, and the implant complication rate was 6%. 
Chronic cluster headache associated with a vertebral artery aneurysm. This is a report of a patient with chronic cluster headache-like pain of 12 years duration. Investigation revealed an aneurysm at the junction of the vertebral and posterior inferior cerebellar arteries and after removal the patient experienced resolution of his cluster headache. The headache and aneurysm were both right sided suggesting a possible relationship. 
What is migraine? Controversy and stalemate in migraine pathophysiology. Theories of migraine pathophysiology have evolved from the realms of the supernatural into the scientific arena but their further evolution seems delayed by unproductive controversy about whether or not migraine is primarily a vascular or a neurological dysfunction. This conceptual deadlock needs to be transcended by thinking beyond the neural and vascular systems, and by identifying mechanisms that could affect both to produce the characteristic clinical phenomena of migraine. One theoretical model envisages 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin; 5-HT) as a link between the neural and vascular systems, with global alteration of serotonergic neurotransmission affecting not only these systems, but the gastrointestinal tract as well, with incidental reverberations on platelet function. Such altered serotonergic transmission might originate from altered 5-HT receptor dynamics, a molecular change in turn produced by genetic mechanisms. Recognition of the importance of 5-HT receptor function in migraine, most notably that agonists of 5-HT1 receptors abort acute migraine and that antagonists of 5-HT2 receptors prevent migraine, may lead to significant therapeutic advances. The possibility that the "trigeminovascular system" might be the end-stage mechanism that these serotonergic changes detonate to produce the painful reverberations of migraine headache is also important. Seeking ways to muffle these reverberations, or to insulate the system itself from the action of external influences (likely through further study of peptidergic transmission and receptors) might result in more drugs that will abort or prevent migraine. 
Cerebrospinal fluid leaks and meningitis in acoustic neuroma surgery. Cerebrospinal fluid leaks and associated meningitis are the most common life-threatening complications of surgery for acoustic neuromas. This retrospective study reviews 319 patients who had surgery for 321 acoustic tumors at the Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center, University of Toronto, from April 1975 to March 1990. Cerebrospinal fluid leaks occurred after 13.4% of primary tumor operations. Surgical repair was required in 6.2% of all patients; 4.4% needed more than one operation. Meningitis occurred in 5.3% of all patients. These complications were more common in larger tumors and after the combined translabyrinthine middle fossa approach. Transnasopharyngeal eustachian tube obliteration was used to stop recurrent cerebrospinal fluid leaks in two patients. 
Cerebral metastases as first symptom of bronchogenic carcinoma. A prospective study of 37 cases. Among the patients showing evidence of cerebral metastases without previously known cancer history, lung cancer has been found 37 times as the primary tumor in our institution. There were 34 men and three women and all but two were heavy smokers. Only one presented at diagnosis with thoracic symptoms but the chest radiograph was abnormal in 34. The histologic type of the primary tumor was obtained in 32 cases as a result of thoracic investigations and in five cases from metastatic tumor tissue. The primary tumor appeared to be non-small cell lung carcinoma in 26 cases and small cell lung carcinoma in 11 cases. These results show that patients treated with surgery (20 cases) have a better survival (median 10 months versus 4.5) than the others, and among surgically treated patients only those treated with bifocal resection (eight patients) are long-term survivors. Also, in four of six patients, objective regression of the neurologic symptoms was seen after radiation therapy alone. Central nervous system relapse was seen in 12 patients, but in none of the patients treated with postoperative radiation therapy. Conventional chemotherapy (11 patients) induced objective responses only in the small cell type and proved to be too toxic when used simultaneously with radiation therapy in inoperable patients. 
Nasal hyper-responsiveness to histamine, methacholine and phentolamine in patients with perennial non-allergic rhinitis and in patients with infectious rhinitis. Recently it has been shown that patients with atopic rhinitis and with an allergy to house dust mites have a stronger nasal response to insufflation of histamine, methacholine and phentolamine than a control group. This hyper-responsiveness could not be demonstrated in patients with perennial non-allergic rhinitis, unless the patients were selected according to the predominant symptoms in the history. Patients with rhinorrhoea ('runners') proved to be hyper-responsive to methacholine compared with normal controls. The existence of two subpopulations was emphasized by hyper-responsiveness to both histamine and methacholine in the runners group compared with the patients with a stuffy nose ('blockers'). Patients with chronic nasal infections (characterized by recurrent episodes of purulent discharge) showed no hyper-responsiveness at all, indicating that either hyper-reactivity does not play an important part in this patient population or methods to detect hyper-reactivity in this group are inadequate. In contrast to our earlier observations in patients with atopic rhinitis, increased responsiveness to phentolamine could not be detected either in the patients with perennial rhinitis or in the patients with infectious rhinitis, indicating that the possible alpha-adrenergic dysfunction found in patients with atopic rhinitis is restricted to this group. 
Clonality and clonal evolution of hepatocellular carcinoma with multiple nodules. To determine the clonal evolution of hepatocellular carcinoma, the integrated hepatitis B virus DNA patterns of the main tumor, satellites and/or metastatic lesions were analyzed by Southern-blot hybridization in 28 hepatocellular carcinomas, including three HBsAg-seronegative cases. Unicentric or multicentric hepatocellular carcinoma was confirmed by histopathological criteria in 89% of the cases. Among 17 unicentric hepatocellular carcinomas, minor changes of the integration pattern--including partial loss or addition of the integration sites or both--were detected in the metastatic lesions in 29% of the cases. Furthermore, none of five cases with free-form hepatitis B virus DNA in the primary tumor had detectable free hepatitis B virus DNA in the metastatic lesions. These results suggest that the alteration of integrated hepatitis B virus DNA pattern during the course of tumor growth and metastasis may occur more often than previously perceived and that the switch-off of virus replication may be related to tumor metastatic potential. In eight cases with unilateral, multicentric hepatocellular carcinoma, two clones were detected in six cases, three were seen in another and four were seen in one. One case of note was a 9-yr-old boy with two histological types and two different integration patterns, one associated with vascular invasion and lung metastasis. Three patients with bilateral hepatocellular carcinoma were confirmed to have bicentric or tricentric hepatocellular carcinoma rather than intrahepatic dissemination and had survival rates similar to those in unicentric hepatocellular carcinoma. Three invasive HBsAg-seronegative hepatocellular carcinomas were found to have hepatitis B virus DNA integration and were of unicentric origin. 
Endoscopic sphincterotomy: the whole truth. An 8 year experience of 602 patients (median age 76 years) referred for endoscopic management of common bile stones is reported. No patient referred for treatment has been excluded. A diagnostic cholangiogram was achieved in 94 per cent and sphincterotomy was accomplished in 91.5 per cent. The bile ducts were demonstrated to be completely cleared of stones in 491 (81.6 per cent) of 602 patients. A mean number of 1.9 endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography examinations per patient were necessary to achieve this result. Complications of endoscopic sphincterotomy, which were strictly defined, occurred in 10.5 per cent of patients although five patients had two complications (total complication rate 11.3 per cent). The 30-day mortality rate was 2.2 per cent, seven of 13 deaths (1.2 per cent) occurring as a direct result of sphincterotomy. There have been statistically significant improvements in bile duct clearance and complication rates with increasing experience of endoscopists. 
The contributing role of condylar resorption to skeletal relapse following mandibular advancement surgery: report of five cases. The contribution of condylar resorption to relapse following mandibular advancement surgery has not been fully evaluated, yet may contribute substantially to postoperative occlusal and skeletal changes too often considered simply as "relapse." Five cases showing a typical relapse pattern are presented, illustrating the role of condylar resorption. Preoperative factors that may contribute to the development of condylar resorption (age, sex, high preoperative mandibular plane angle, and the presence of preoperative temporomandibular joint disease), as well as intraoperative and postoperative factors, are discussed. A target group is defined in which special considerations should be made with regard to preoperative and postoperative management. 
Type IV procollagen mRNA regulation: evidence for extracellular matrix/cytoskeleton/nuclear matrix interactions in human urothelium. The absence of basement membrane components correlates with tumor stage and progression in human bladder cancers. We have previously shown that invasive tumors possess the ability to degrade basement membrane. However, the presence of basement membrane may be affected not only by its degradation, but by its synthesis and deposition as well. Our results in the present study suggest that while the invasive human transitional carcinoma cell line EJ has an increased amount of type IV procollagen mRNA when compared to the non-invasive RT4 cell line, type IV collagen staining is absent in the invasive EJ cells and intensely present in the non-invasive RT4 cells. Moreover, when EJ cells were grown on an artificial basement membrane (Matrigel), type IV procollagen mRNA expression was down-regulated to the levels seen with the non-invasive RT4 cells. We also discovered that the invasive cells, when grown on Matrigel, appeared morphologically different from the same cells grown on plastic tissue cultures. We conclude that a deficient basement membrane in invasive cancer cells may be due not only to active proteolytic activity but also to an abnormal production and deposition of extracellular matrix components. In addition, we also demonstrated that basement membrane components may have a significant effect on epithelial cell morphology and gene regulation, and that any alterations of the extracellular matrix-cytoskeleton-nuclear matrix interactions can lead to altered gene regulations and cell function. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy enhances long-term survival of patients with advanced gastric cancer following curative resection. We examined the effectiveness of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with mitomycin C (MMC), 1-(2-tetrahydrofuryl)-5-fluorouracil (tegafur), plus PSK, an immunomodulator, for patients with advanced gastric cancer who underwent histological curative resection. The effect of chemotherapy on prognostic serosal (ps) invasion [ps(-) or ps(+)] and lymph node metastasis [n(-) or N(+)] was examined. One hundred eighteen patients were in the no-chemotherapy group and 137 were on the drugs. The median follow-up time for the 86 survivors at the time of analysis was 13.8 years. With regard to prognostic factors, there were no differences between the two groups. Generalized Wilcoxon test of the two survival patterns revealed a P value of .0351, and the survival rate for 15 years was 45.7% for patients in the no-chemotherapy group and 56.9% for those of the chemotherapy group. In particular, adjuvant chemotherapy was effective for patients with ps(-)n(+) (P less than .05) and ps(+)n(-) (P less than .05), but not for those with ps(-)n(-) and ps(+)n(+). Our findings show that the concomitant prescription of MMC, tegafur, and PSK improves the 15-year survival rate for patients with advanced gastric cancer, following curative resection. As the survival rate is low for the patients with ps(+)n(+), an even more aggressive postoperative chemotherapy is recommended. 
Are depressive symptoms nonspecific in patients with acute stroke? OBJECTIVE: Some investigators have suggested that major depression might be overdiagnosed in stroke patients because of changes in appetite, sleep, or sexual interest caused by their medical illness; others have suggested that depression may be underdiagnosed in stroke patients who deny symptoms of depression because of anosognosia, neglect, or aprosody. The authors' goal was to determine how frequently depressive symptoms occur in acute stroke patients with and without depressed mood to estimate how often diagnostic errors of inclusion or exclusion may be made. METHOD: They examined the rate of autonomic and psychological symptoms of depression in 205 patients who were consecutively hospitalized for acute stroke. Eighty-five (41%) of these patients had depressed mood, and 120 (59%) had no mood disturbance. Forty-six (54%) of the 85 patients with depressed mood (22% of all patients) were assigned the DSM-III diagnosis of major depression. RESULTS: The 120 patients without mood disturbance had a mean of one autonomic symptom, but the 85 patients with depressed mood had a mean of almost four. Tightening the diagnostic criteria to account for one more nonspecific autonomic symptom decreased the number of patients with major depression by only three; adding two more criteria decreased the number by only five. Thus, the rate of DSM-III major depression was 1% higher than the rate with one extra nonspecific autonomic symptom and 2% higher than the rate with two extra criteria. Conversely, loosening diagnostic criteria to account for denial of depressive illness increased the rate of major depression by only 5%. CONCLUSIONS: Both autonomic and psychological depressive symptoms are strongly associated with depressed mood in acute stroke patients. 
Current approaches to chronic pain in older patients. As the population ages, primary care physicians face an increasing number of individuals who suffer from the effects of chronic diseases, including the accompanying chronic pain. This article reviews the common causes of pain in the elderly and suggests a system for assessing its severity. Five different approaches to treating pain in this population are outlined, as are guidelines for managing the potential side effects of treatment. 
Morphometric studies in intraductal breast carcinoma using computerized image analysis. A morphometric study was performed using computerized image analysis on the histologic specimens of 26 patients with intraductal carcinoma of the breast and 26 normal control patients. A significant incidence of necrosis (56%) was observed in the breast ducts containing intraductal carcinoma. This was characterized by one or more areas of necrosis surrounded by a rim of viable tumor cells. The mean diameter of the ducts containing intraductal carcinoma was 349 microns compared with a mean diameter of 90 microns for the normal ducts. The mean diameter of the ducts containing necrosis was 470 microns compared with a mean diameter of 192 microns for the ducts containing a solid pattern of intraductal carcinoma. Central necrosis occurred in 94% of the ducts more than 180 microns in radius, whereas only 34% of the ducts less than 180 microns in size contained necrosis. The width of the viable neoplastic tissue was less than 180 microns in 91% of the ducts. These results are analogous to the findings of Thomlinson and Gray in human lung tumor cords and provide indirect evidence for the existence of a hypoxic compartment in intraductal carcinoma of the breast. This could be an explanation for the higher local failure rate after conservative surgery and irradiation for infiltrating cancers containing an extensive intraductal component. 
A prospective comparison of thromboembolic stockings, external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and heparin sodium/dihydroergotamine mesylate for the prevention of thromboembolic complications in urological surgery. Deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli are reported to occur in up to 66% of the patients undergoing a major urological operation. Thromboembolic stockings, external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and anticoagulant agents, such as heparin sodium plus dihydroergotamine mesylate, have been suggested to decrease the risk of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. A total of 74 evaluable patients undergoing a major urological operation was randomized to receive either thromboembolic stockings, external sequential pneumatic compression stockings, or heparin plus dihydroergotamine as prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. 111Indium-labeled platelet scans, performed preoperatively and on days 1, 3 and 6 postoperatively, were used to diagnose deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. Mean patient age was 63 years and all but 1 operation was performed for neoplastic disease. Deep venous thrombosis was detected in 5 of 25 patients (20%) with thromboembolic stockings, 3 of 24 (12.5%) with external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and 2 of 25 (8%) with heparin plus dihydroergotamine. There was no difference in blood loss or complications among the groups. Although statistical significance among the treatment groups was not reached in this study, the trend to a decrease in deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli with external sequential pneumatic compression stockings and heparin plus dihydroergotamine, and an absence of an increase in morbidity in these groups supports the use of these modalities to decrease the morbidity and mortality of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. 
Nerve cell loss in the thalamus in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Serial sections through the thalamus from the fixed right cerebral hemispheres of 15 cases (5 Parkinson's disease, 5 Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 5 controls) were used to obtain quantitative estimates of neuronal loss, neurofibrillary tangle formation and Lewy body inclusions within individual thalamic nuclei. Severe neuronal loss and tangle formation were evident in the anterodorsal nucleus from the AD cases. Nerve cell damage was also present in the centromedian nucleus but was not associated with tangle formation and occurred in all but 2 of the brains examined. It is likely that the anterodorsal neurons are damaged locally by the Alzheimer's disease process whereas the changes in the centromedian nucleus may be related to ageing. 
Rupture of the internal elastic lamina and vascular fragility in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. We studied a possible relation between stroke and an enhanced susceptibility to rupture of the arterial internal elastic lamina by comparing stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with spontaneously hypertensive rats, which have a very low incidence of stroke. We quantified interruptions in the internal elastic lamina in certain arteries and studied the effect of beta-aminopropionitrile, an inhibitor of cross-link formation in collagen and elastic fibers, on rupture of the internal elastic lamina and on mortality in these two substrains. To eliminate any influence of higher blood pressure in the stroke-prone rats on the parameters studied, we used antihypertensive treatment to obtain equivalent blood pressures in the two substrains. Results showed that stroke sensitivity was associated with an enhanced early spontaneous rupture of the internal elastic lamina in the caudal artery, an increased susceptibility to beta-aminopropionitrile-induced rupture of the internal elastic lamina, and earlier mortality, mainly from aortic rupture, under beta-aminopropionitrile treatment. These findings suggest that stroke-prone rats have an enhanced minor connective tissue defect that is expressed by rupture of the internal elastic lamina and may be related, at least in part, to their greater vascular fragility and increased susceptibility to stroke. 
Capillary refill--is it a useful predictor of hypovolemic states? STUDY OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether the capillary refill test can correctly differentiate between hypovolemic and euvolemic emergency department patients. DESIGN: A prospective, nonrandomized, nonblinded time series. SETTING: The orthostatic and hypotensive patients were seen in a university hospital ED with 44,000 visits per year. Blood donors were studied in the hospital's blood donor center. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-two adult ED patients who presented with a history suggestive of hypovolemia and either abnormal orthostatic vital signs (19) or frank hypotension (13), and 47 volunteer blood donors who ranged in age from 19 to 83 participated. INTERVENTIONS: Capillary refill was measured before rehydration in the ED subjects and, in the donor group, before and after a 450-mL blood donation. MEASUREMENTS: Sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values were calculated. Analyses were stratified by age, sex, and study group. MAIN RESULTS: For the blood donor group, mean capillary refill time before donation was 1.4 seconds and after donation was 1.1 seconds. Mean capillary refill time for the orthostatic group was 1.9 seconds and for the hypotensive group was 2.8 seconds. When scored with age-sex specific upper limits of normal, the sensitivity of capillary refill in identifying hypovolemic patients was 6% for the 450-mL blood loss group, 26% for the orthostatic group, and 46% for the hypotensive group. The accuracy of capillary refill in a patient with a 50% prior probability of hypovolemia is 64%. Orthostatic vital signs were found to be more sensitive and specific than capillary refill in detecting the 450-mL blood loss. CONCLUSION: Capillary refill does not appear to be a useful test for detecting mild-to-moderate hypovolemia in adults. 
Indications for and the technique of local resection of tumors of the papilla of Vater. Local resection of tumors of the papilla of Vater was performed in six cases (three benign adenomas and three adenocarcinomas). Pathology was suggested in all cases by endoscopic biopsy and confirmed by operative excision. A method of excision of the tumor and reconstruction of the pancreaticobiliary apparatus was used that eliminated all gross and microscopic disease. Only one of the patients with benign disease (familial polyposis) suffered from local recurrence. All three patients with malignant tumors developed local recurrences within 2 years of resection. Local resection seems to be a viable alternative to Whipple's resection in patients with benign tumors. In malignant cases, local resection should be considered only a palliative procedure and confined to elderly patients with severe concomitant disease and patients in whom a more radical procedure would incur an undue surgical risk. 
Influenza A and the virus associated haemophagocytic syndrome: cluster of three cases in children with acute leukaemia. At the height of the United Kingdom influenza A epidemic in December 1989, three children receiving treatment for non-T cell acute leukaemia developed pancytopenia with concomitant influenza A infection. Bone marrow histology showed prominent marrow erythrophagocytosis by morphologically mature histiocytes, consistent with the picture of virus associated haemophagocytic syndrome (VAHS). In two cases there was an initial spontaneous recovery, though recurrence of VAHS developed in one case in association with a different viral infection (cytomegalovirus) following autologous bone marrow transplantation. The third child died from cardiorespiratory failure secondary to infection with influenza A and Klebsiella pneumoniae sepsis. It is suggested that influenza A should be added to the list of infective causative agents. 
Localization of the gene encoding the GABAA receptor beta 3 subunit to the Angelman/Prader-Willi region of human chromosome 15. Deletions of the proximal long arm of chromosome 15 (bands 15q11q13) are found in the majority of patients with two distinct genetic disorders, Angelman syndrome (AS) and Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). The deleted regions in the two syndromes, defined cytogenetically and by using cloned DNA probes, are similar. However, deletions in AS occur on the maternally inherited chromosome 15, and deletions in PWS occur on the paternally derived chromosome 15. This observation has led to the suggestion that one or more genes in this region show differential expression dependent on parental origin (genetic imprinting). No genes of known function have previously been mapped to this region. We show here that the gene encoding the GABAA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) receptor beta 3 subunit maps to the AS/PWS region. Deletion of this gene (GABRB3) was found in AS and PWS patients with interstitial cytogenetic deletions. Evidence of beta 3 gene deletion was also found in an AS patient with an unbalanced 13;15 translocation but not in a PWS patient with an unbalanced 9;15 translocation. The localization of this receptor gene to the AS/PWS region suggests a possible role of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in the pathogenesis of one or both of these syndromes. 
Effect of hyaluronic acid on postoperative intraperitoneal adhesion formation and reformation in the rat model. The local application of 0.25% or 0.4% HA before the induction of a measured laser injury on the rat uterine horn was associated with a significant reduction (P less than 0.05) in postoperative IP adhesions when compared with the group of animals pretreated with the diluent vehicle PBS or received no pretreatment. However, 0.4% HA, when applied in a similar manner, was ineffective in reducing reformation of adhesions after microsurgical adhesiolysis. 
Cardiac involvement in patients with primary antiphospholipid syndrome. To evaluate cardiac involvement in primary antiphospholipid syndrome, two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiographic studies were performed in 34 consecutive patients with this syndrome. All patients had an increased level of serum anticardiolipin antibodies with no evidence of malignancy or systemic lupus erythematosus. The clinical manifestations of primary antiphospholipid syndrome were arterial thrombosis in 14 patients, venous thrombosis in 6 and recurrent fetal loss in 14. Valvular lesions were observed on two-dimensional echocardiography in 11 patients (32%) (9 women and 2 men), aged 24 to 57 years (mean +/- 1 SD 36 +/- 10). Abnormal echocardiographic findings were observed in 9 (64%) of 14 patients with arterial thrombosis versus 1 (17%) of 6 patients with venous thrombosis and 1 (7%) of 14 patients with recurrent fetal loss. The most common echocardiographic abnormality was mitral leaflet thickening, found in five patients; this was associated with mitral regurgitation in three and with combined mild mitral stenosis and regurgitation in one patient. Localized subvalvular mitral thickening was observed in one patient and calcification of the anulus in another. Aortic valve thickening was observed in two patients, one of whom also had a moderate degree of aortic regurgitation. Vegetation-like lesions on the mitral or aortic valve were found in two patients. It is concluded that valvular lesions are commonly found in primary antiphospholipid syndrome, particularly when the syndrome is manifested by peripheral arterial thrombosis. The location and appearance of valvular lesions in this syndrome are heterogeneous. Most patients have no clinically significant valvular disease. Two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiographic studies are often informative in these patients. 
Cerebral akinetopsia (visual motion blindness). A review. Cerebral akinetopsia is a syndrome in which a patient loses specifically the ability to perceive visual motion following cortical lesions outside the striate cortex. There has been only one good case of akinetopsia in the published literature. Yet that case was immediately accepted by the neurological world. In this, cerebral akinetopsia differs markedly from cerebral achromatopsia, the evidence for which was strongly contested for the better part of a century (Zeki, 1990). This article complements the one on cerebral achromatopsia, traces the history of akinetopsia and enquires into why it was so much more readily acceptable than achromatopsia. 
Normalisation of refractive error after steroid injection for adnexal haemangiomas. A longitudinal study of 27 patients with infantile haemangiomas is reported. It confirmed the efficacy of local steroid injection as a method of treatment; 81.5% of patients showed a marked improvement, with the lesion reducing to 25% or less of its original size. Involution was most marked in the first two weeks but continued for up to four months after injection. Amblyopia was present in 43% of children and was usually the result of induced refractive error rather than obstruction of the visual axis or strabismus. Anisometropia was found in 68% of children, with a high incidence of asymmetric astigmatism on the side of the haemangioma. Following local steroid injection a marked reduction in astigmatism was noted in 53.8% of children, a lesser reduction in 15.4%, and no reduction in 30.8%. Successful treatment of the haemangioma, therefore, may not remove the risk of amblyopia, and regular refraction and visual assessment remain mandatory. 
Association of postoperative apnea, airway obstruction, and hypoxemia in former premature infants. Airway obstruction plays an important role in the pathogenesis of apnea in premature infants who have not previously undergone anesthesia. To determine the role of airway obstruction in postoperative apnea, we studied 74 former premature infants by integrated recordings of nasal airflow, pneumocardiography, and pulse oximetry during the initial 2 h of recovery from inhalational anesthesia. Apnea (greater than 6 s) was classified as central, obstructive, or mixed, wherein mixed apnea consisted of central and obstructive apnea within the same apneic episode. Postoperative apnea was observed in 23 infants, ranging in age from 31-48 weeks postconception: 12 had inguinal herniorrhaphy (hernia group) and 11 had other procedures (other group). Of the 268 apneic episodes in the hernia group, 73% were central, 6% obstructive, and 21% mixed. Infants in the other group had 505 apneic episodes, with a distribution nearly identical to that in the hernia group. Central and mixed apnea occurred in all infants experiencing apnea, except in 1 infant, who had only central apnea, whereas obstructive apnea occurred in only one third of the apneic infants. Arterial hemoglobin desaturation was significantly more frequent at the end of mixed and obstructive apnea than after central apnea (P less than 0.01). In both groups, arterial hemoglobin O2 saturation (SpO2) decreased to less than 80% in approximately 35% of mixed and obstructive apneic episodes, compared to approximately 5% of central apneic episodes. SpO2 remained greater than or equal to 90% in over 80% of central apneic episodes, compared to 40% of mixed and obstructive apneic episodes. 
Combined portal vein and liver resection for carcinoma of the biliary tract. Twenty-nine patients with advanced carcinoma of the bile duct or gallbladder underwent combined portal vein and liver resection. Segmental excision of the portal vein was performed in 16 cases and wedge resection of the vessel wall in 13. The operative mortality rate was 17 per cent. The median survival for the 24 patients who left hospital was 19.8 months. Actuarial survival rates at 1, 3 and 5 years for all 29 patients were 48 per cent, 29 per cent, and 6 per cent respectively, whereas the median survival for 46 patients with unresectable carcinoma was 3 months and the 1 and 3-year actuarial survival rates were 13 per cent and zero respectively. This difference in survival times between patients undergoing hepatectomy with portal vein resection and those with unresectable carcinoma were statistically significant (P less than 0.01). Combined portal vein and liver resection is recommended as a reasonable surgical approach in selected patients with advanced carcinoma of the biliary tract. 
A reappraisal of the coelomic metaplasia theory by reviewing endometriosis occurring in unusual sites and instances. Endometriosis occurring in unusual sites and instances was reviewed for the purpose of exploring the pathogenesis of the disease. Endometriosis is frequently observed in the pelves of menstruating women. It occurs in teenagers even before menarche, in women who have never menstruated, and in postmenopausal women. It affects not only the pelvic organs but also the right-sided thoracic organs and rarely the extremities. It occurs in men who are castrated and treated with estrogen. The affected sites in both common and uncommon endometriosis include cells arising from the coelomic membrane and sites exposed to metaplasia-inducing substances such as estrogen and unknown factors liberated from the degenerating endometrium. This appears to strengthen the coelomic metaplasia theory, although additional basic and experimental data must still be accumulated to confirm this theory. 
Herpes zoster myelitis. We studied the clinical (10 patients) and pathological (9 patients) findings in 13 patients with herpes zoster myelitis, all of whom had systemic illnesses associated with immunosuppression. The median interval between the onset of the herpes zoster rash and myelopathic symptoms was 12 days, and the subsequent median interval to maximal deficit was 10.5 days. Presenting neurological symptoms were characteristically ipsilateral to the rash, with motor dysfunction predominating, followed by a spinothalamic and, less often, posterior column sensory deficit. Pathological involvement was most severe in the dorsal root entry zone and posterior horn of the spinal cord segment corresponding to the involved dermatome. There was variable spread both horizontally and vertically in the spinal cord. Direct varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection of neuroectodermal cells, particularly oligodendrocytes, was demonstrated by immunostaining viral antigens (8 cases), and by the presence of Cowdry type A intranuclear inclusions (7 cases) and often was associated with focal demyelination (6 cases). In 4 patients a VZV vasculitis was associated with leptomeningitis and haemorrhagic necrosis (spinal cord in 1; brainstem or cerebellum in 3). The protracted evolution in many cases and the pathologically documented direct viral infection of the spinal cord provide a rational basis for the use of antiviral therapy in preventing or attenuating the evolving myelopathy. 
HLA association with dermatitis herpetiformis is accounted for by a cis or transassociated DQ heterodimer. HLA-DR, DQ, and DP restriction fragment genotyping was undertaken in 23 dermatitis herpetiformis patients and 53 healthy control subjects. HLA-DQw2 was present in 100% of patients with dermatitis herpetiformis (23 of 23) versus 40% of control subjects (21 of 53). Significant secondary associations occurred with HLA-DR3 (91% of patients versus 28% of control subjects) and DPw1 (39% of patients versus 11% of control subjects). Dermatitis herpetiformis and coeliac disease thus share an identical HLA class II association. It is likely that HLA class II genes directly influence the immune responses leading to mucosal damage in both diseases. The strongest candidate for disease susceptibility to dermatitis herpetiformis is DQw2. The HLA molecule most likely to be involved in coeliac disease is a specific DQ alpha/DQ beta heterodimer, encoded in cis arrangement in DR3 haplotypes or in trans arrangement in a DR5, 7 genotype. Our data on dermatitis herpetiformis patients fits this model perfectly. All these patients are capable of expressing this molecule, which may be responsible for the gluten sensitive enteropathy seen in a subgroup of patients with dermatitis herpetiformis and coeliac disease. 
Sequences of taxol and cisplatin: a phase I and pharmacologic study. Untreated and minimally pretreated solid tumor patients received alternating sequences of taxol and cisplatin. Sequential dose escalation of each agent using taxol doses of 110 or 135 mg/m2 and cisplatin doses of 50 or 75 mg/m2 resulted in four dosage permutations that induced grades 3 and 4 neutropenia in 72% to 84% and 50% to 53% of courses, respectively. Neutropenia was brief, and hospitalization for neutropenia and fever was required in 13% to 24% of courses. However, further escalation of taxol to 170 or 200 mg/m2 induced grade 4 neutropenia in 79% to 82% of courses. At the highest taxol-cisplatin dose level (200 mg/m2 to 75 mg/m2), the mean neutrophil count nadir was 98/microL, and hospitalization for neutropenia and fever was required in 64% of courses. The sequence of cisplatin before taxol, which has less antitumor activity in vitro, induced more profound neutropenia than the alternate sequence. Pharmacologic studies indicated that this difference was probably due to 25% lower taxol clearance rates when cisplatin preceded taxol. Although neurotoxicity was initially thought to be a potentially serious effect of the combination, mild to modest neurotoxicity occurred in only 27% of patients. Adverse effects also included myalgias, alopecia, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia. Objective responses were noted in melanoma, as well as non-small-cell lung, ovarian, breast, head and neck, colon, and pancreatic carcinomas. Based on these results, the sequence of taxol before cisplatin at doses of 135 and 75 mg/m2, respectively, is recommended for phase II/III trials, with escalation of taxol to 170 mg/m2 if treatment is well tolerated. 
Nosocomial pneumonia in the critically ill: product of aspiration or translocation? OBJECTIVE: To examine the possibility that nosocomial pneumonias might be caused by the translocation of enteric bacteria and their toxins. DESIGN: Prospectively collected previous database was examined by logistic regression analysis. SETTING: University medical center. PATIENTS: Sixty-two ICU patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The best stand-alone predictors for nosocomial pneumonia were bleeding from stress ulceration (p less than .001), the severity of illness present (p less than .001), and intramucosal acidosis in the stomach (p = .023), a metabolic indication of mucosal ischemia. Mechanical ventilation (p = .038) and the administration of antacids/cimetidine (p = .054) were also of stand-alone predictive value, but did not significantly improve the best predictive model for nosocomial pneumonia derived from the severity of illness present and the intramucosal pH in the stomach. CONCLUSIONS: The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that ischemic mucosal injury and its associated translocation of enteric bacteria and toxins might be more important in the pathogenesis of nosocomial pneumonia in the critically ill than the aspiration of contaminated nasopharyngeal secretions. 
Intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia in children after selective dorsal root rhizotomy. The authors report their experience with low doses (0.007-0.015 mg/kg), moderate doses (0.016-0.025 mg/kg), and high doses (0.026-0.035 mg/kg) of intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia after selective dorsal root rhizotomy surgery in 50 children, aged 3 to 12 years. After closure of the dura, a single dose of preservative-free morphine was injected into the subarachnoid space, and patients were assessed for 48 hours for level of comfort and side effects. The three doses of morphine provided equivalent analgesia and similar side effects. The duration of postoperative analgesia ranged from 3 to 48 hours (mean, 12.2 +/- 9.5 h). Common side effects were limited to nausea and vomiting (42%) and mild facial pruritus. No patient experienced late respiratory depression or generalized pruritus. The authors conclude that low doses of intrathecal morphine is as effective as moderate or high doses of morphine for reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period. Intrathecal morphine provides excellent analgesia after selective dorsal rhizotomy. 
Hypopituitarism. The pituitary regulates the body's endocrine system, including the thyroid gland, adrenal cortex, ovaries and testes, through the release of numerous hormones. Pituitary function, in turn, is regulated through complex feedback loops involving the hypothalamus and the target endocrine glands. Hypopituitarism may result from multiple causes, including primary and metastatic cancer, ischemic and granulomatous disease, infection, developmental abnormalities and trauma, which may affect the gland itself (primary hypopituitarism) or the hypothalamus (secondary hypopituitarism). Depending on the anatomic lesion, patients with hypopituitarism may present with signs or symptoms of multiple endocrine abnormalities, such as hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, diabetes insipidus, hypoglycemia, sexual dysfunction and growth retardation. A thorough clinical history, detailed examination, laboratory evaluation of endocrine function and radiographic views of the pituitary and sella turcica can suggest the diagnosis and etiology. Treatment, usually lifelong, may include hormone replacement and medical or surgical correction of the underlying disease. 
Lithotripsy versus cholecystectomy for management of gallstones. A decision analysis by Markov process. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is a new treatment method that effectively distintegrates radiolucent gallstones and is associated with a low complication rate. Using the model of a Markov process for decision analysis, survival and costs under four possible strategies to treat gallstones were compared: expectant management with cholecystectomy (EC) or lithotripsy (EL) reserved for symptomatic gallstones; prophylactic cholecystectomy (PC) or lithotripsy (PL) for all gallstones. Life expectancy for the different strategies varies by few days. Only if high annual rates of pain and complication occurred in subjects with silent gallstones would both prophylactic procedures marginally increase life expectancy. Prophylactic cholecystectomy then would be more cost-effective than prophylactic lithotripsy. Expectant strategies remain much cheaper than prophylactic management over a broad range of probability values and procedural costs. Expectant use of lithotripsy costs less than cholecystectomy. A low success rate of lithotripsy would raise the direct costs of lithotripsy above those of cholecystectomy but leave total costs of both strategies in the same order of magnitude. Lithotripsy appears to be a feasible alternative to treat symptomatic but not asymptomatic gallstones. 
Urinary retention after pyeloplasty. A retrospective review of 37 pyeloplasties, performed between 1984 and 1988, revealed that 38% of patients had post-operative retention requiring catheterisation, compared with 8% in an age and sex matched group of patients undergoing cholecystectomy. This suggests that direct surgical trauma to the upper genitourinary system may inhibit bladder function. We therefore suggest that pre-operative catheterisation should be considered in theatre, for patients undergoing pyeloplasty. 
Fatal pulmonary aspergillosis presenting as acute eosinophilic pneumonia in a previously healthy child. A previously healthy boy presented with cough and diffuse pulmonary interstitial infiltrates. Acute eosinophilic pneumonia was diagnosed by bronchoalveolar lavage in the absence of a demonstrable infectious etiologic agent. Corticosteroid therapy resulted in immediate improvement but was followed by respiratory distress and death from invasive aspergillosis and Pseudomonas cepacia sepsis. 
Otolaryngology problems in the immune compromised patient--an evolving natural history. As the human immunodeficiency virus is being detected in increasing numbers of asymptomatic individuals at risk, newer earlier patterns of disease have become apparent--including cranial and cervical herpes zoster, oral hairy leukoplakia, and oral candidiasis--thus linking viral and other disease to the development of acquired immunodeficiency disease (AIDS). Many similarities between patients with AIDS and other immunosuppressed patients have emerged. As immunosuppressed patients survive longer, they begin to manifest cancers such as lymphomas and squamous cell cancers in addition to Kaposi's sarcoma. Otolaryngologists can learn to identify and treat otitis and sinusitis in the immunosuppressed patient, to identify predictive early signs such as oral hairy leukoplakia, herpes simplex virus, and oral candidiasis, and to diagnose and treat Kaposi's sarcomas of the head and neck, lymphomas, squamous cell cancers, and opportunistic infections as the immunodeficiency disease progresses. 
The expression of proliferative-associated nuclear antigen p105 in gastric carcinoma. The expression of proliferation-associated nuclear antigen p105 of gastric carcinomas was studied by multiparameter flow cytometric and immunohistochemical technique. Multiparameter flow cytometric analysis revealed that p105 expression was rarely observed in the resting cells of normal gastric epithelium. On the contrary, the immunofluorescence (IF) intensity of cancer cells in G1 phase was approximately two-fold to three-fold greater than that of G0 phase of cancer cells or normal gastric epithelium. The p105 antigen content of cancer cells increased with cell cycle progression, and increased more rapidly in cells in late S-phase than in cells in G0 and early S-phase. Microphotometric study demonstrated that cells in M-phase exhibited a dramatic increase in the amount of the antigen, and the IF intensity of the mitotic cells were approximately five-fold to ten-fold greater than that of cells in G1 and S-phase. These results indicate that the antigen demonstrated by the p105 monoclonal antibody is present in the G1, S, G2, M-phases, but not in the G0 phase. Immunohistochemical technique demonstrated that patients with lymph node metastases are more likely to have high p105-positive rates than did node-negative patients. The mean p105-positive rates of aneuploid tumors was significantly higher than those of diploid tumors. From these results the authors speculate that the measurement of p105-positive rates may be a powerful prognostic indicator of gastric carcinoma. 
Anterior capsule adherence to iris leading to pseudophakic pupillary block. We present a rare case of anterior capsule adherence to the iris following extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and leading to pseudophakic pupillary block. There were no synechiae at the pupillary margins associated with the capsule/iris adherence, but aqueous was entrapped behind the iris and intraocular pressure rose. Laser iridotomy was temporarily beneficial, but it had to be repeated several times. 
The renal growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor I axis. Collecting duct is a major site of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) synthesis within kidney. Production of IGF-I at this site is stimulated by growth hormone (GH). IGF-I produced in collecting duct is likely to act on glomerulus and proximal tubule via IGF-I receptors present at these locations. Renal IGF-I may be causative of the glomerular and proximal tubular hypertrophy that occurs in hypersomatotropic states, of compensatory renal hypertrophy, and of renal regeneration following acute ischemic injury. 
Evaluation of penile dorsal arteries and deep arteries in arteriogenic impotence. The dorsal and deep arteries are the 2 main blood supplies to the penis. High resolution ultrasonography was used to evaluate the role of these 2 sets of arteries in erection. A total of 44 impotent patients entered this study. We used duplex ultrasonography (Diasonic DRF/400) to assess the role of the dorsal and deep arteries in arteriogenic and nonarteriogenic impotent patients. Vascular velocity, as well as the change in diameter, was recorded before and after an intracavernous injection of 60 mg. papaverine. In the arteriogenic impotence group (28 patients, 63.6%), the velocity increments were 37.1 +/- 23.6 (right side) and 35.4 +/- 17.5 (left side) cm. per second in the dorsal arteries, and 8.3 +/- 5.9 (right side) and 12.6 +/- 5.6 (left side) cm. per second in the deep arteries. In the nonarteriogenic group (16 patients, 36.4%) the velocity increments were 46.5 +/- 25.2 and 41.1 +/- 22.4, respectively, in the dorsal arteries, and 37.3 +/- 16.5 and 37.5 +/- 15.8, respectively, in the deep arteries. Comparison of the velocity increments between the arteriogenic and nonarteriogenic groups revealed no difference in the dorsal arteries (p greater than 0.1) but a significant difference was noted in the deep arteries (p less than 0.01). Similar findings were also encountered when the velocities and diameter increments were compared. This study indicates that the deep arteries have an important role in erectile response, while the dorsal arteries are less important. 
Elevation of serum interleukin-6 concentration precedes acute-phase response and reflects severity in acute pancreatitis. Experimental studies have shown that interleukin-6 induces all major acute-phase proteins in the liver, including C-reactive protein. In 50 patients with acute pancreatitis, the serum concentrations of interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein were determined daily during the first week of hospitalization. Patients were divided into three groups according to clinical criteria: mild pancreatitis (less than or equal to 1 complication; n = 25), severe pancreatitis (greater than or equal to 2 complications; n = 15), and lethal outcome (n = 10). Patients with mild disease showed initially slightly elevated levels of interleukin-6 (22.0 +/- 9.8 U/mL) that decreased to low levels within 4 days (5.0 +/- 1.0 U/mL). In patients with severe pancreatitis, serum concentrations of interleukin-6 were initially clearly elevated (35.0 +/- 7.5 U/mL) and remained slightly elevated until day 7 (13.0 +/- 2.0 U/mL). Patients with lethal outcome had markedly elevated initial interleukin-6 concentrations (61.0 +/- 15.0 U/mL) that decreased but were still elevated at day 7 (26.0 +/- 2.5 U/mL). In all three groups, C-reactive protein concentrations followed the course of interleukin-6 concentrations by 1 day. There was a positive correlation between maximal interleukin 6 concentrations and maximal increases in the serum concentrations of C-reactive protein (r = 0.66). At days 1 and 2, increased (greater than 15 U/mL) interleukin-6 concentrations (positive predictive value, 91%; negative predictive value, 82%) predicted a severe or lethal course of the disease more accurately than elevated [greater than 0.10 g/L (greater than 10 mg/dL)] C-reactive protein concentrations (positive predictive value, 67%; negative predictive value, 79%). In conclusion, elevated serum concentrations of interleukin-6 followed by increased levels of C-reactive protein reflect the severity of acute pancreatitis. 
Acquired aphasia, dementia, and behavior disorder with epilepsy and continuous spike and waves during sleep in a child. Severe persistent neuropsychological disorders sometimes develop in the course of a focal epilepsy of unknown origin in previously normal children. Very frequent bilateral focal or generalized discharges are often noted on the sleep EEG records of these patients with no evidence of clinical seizures. The relation between these paroxysms and the observed deterioration remains unclear. We report a child with a partial complex epilepsy and severe disturbances of language, cognition, and behavior acquired in the early years of development who was followed for 15 years. A correlation between the evolution of the striking EEG abnormalities during sleep and the neuropsychological disorders could be established retrospectively. The observed sequence of onset and recovery of the aphasia, the dementia, and the "psychotic" behavior makes a direct causal relation between the deficits quite unlikely. Rather it suggests an association of independent symptoms with a specific language disorder becoming manifest in the course of the evolution. This child shows many of the main characteristics of the syndromes of "acquired aphasia with convulsive disorder" (Landau-Kleffner syndrome) and "epilepsy with continuous spike waves during sleep." Both syndromes describe probably different facets of a similar underlying, still unexplained cerebral dysfunction. 
Optimal dose of lignocaine for preventing pain on injection of propofol. The purpose of this study was to define the optimum dose of lignocaine required to reduce pain on injection of propofol. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial on 310 patients undergoing anaesthesia. Patients were allocated to four groups according to the lignocaine dosage: group A (control), no lignocaine; group B, lignocaine 0.1 mg kg-1; group C, lignocaine 0.2 mg kg-1; group D, lignocaine 0.4 mg kg-1. Our results showed that a dose of lignocaine 0.1 mg kg-1 significantly reduced the incidence of pain and that there was no improvement when the dose was increased. 
Morphometric studies in intraductal breast carcinoma using computerized image analysis. A morphometric study was performed using computerized image analysis on the histologic specimens of 26 patients with intraductal carcinoma of the breast and 26 normal control patients. A significant incidence of necrosis (56%) was observed in the breast ducts containing intraductal carcinoma. This was characterized by one or more areas of necrosis surrounded by a rim of viable tumor cells. The mean diameter of the ducts containing intraductal carcinoma was 349 microns compared with a mean diameter of 90 microns for the normal ducts. The mean diameter of the ducts containing necrosis was 470 microns compared with a mean diameter of 192 microns for the ducts containing a solid pattern of intraductal carcinoma. Central necrosis occurred in 94% of the ducts more than 180 microns in radius, whereas only 34% of the ducts less than 180 microns in size contained necrosis. The width of the viable neoplastic tissue was less than 180 microns in 91% of the ducts. These results are analogous to the findings of Thomlinson and Gray in human lung tumor cords and provide indirect evidence for the existence of a hypoxic compartment in intraductal carcinoma of the breast. This could be an explanation for the higher local failure rate after conservative surgery and irradiation for infiltrating cancers containing an extensive intraductal component. 
Sequences of taxol and cisplatin: a phase I and pharmacologic study. Untreated and minimally pretreated solid tumor patients received alternating sequences of taxol and cisplatin. Sequential dose escalation of each agent using taxol doses of 110 or 135 mg/m2 and cisplatin doses of 50 or 75 mg/m2 resulted in four dosage permutations that induced grades 3 and 4 neutropenia in 72% to 84% and 50% to 53% of courses, respectively. Neutropenia was brief, and hospitalization for neutropenia and fever was required in 13% to 24% of courses. However, further escalation of taxol to 170 or 200 mg/m2 induced grade 4 neutropenia in 79% to 82% of courses. At the highest taxol-cisplatin dose level (200 mg/m2 to 75 mg/m2), the mean neutrophil count nadir was 98/microL, and hospitalization for neutropenia and fever was required in 64% of courses. The sequence of cisplatin before taxol, which has less antitumor activity in vitro, induced more profound neutropenia than the alternate sequence. Pharmacologic studies indicated that this difference was probably due to 25% lower taxol clearance rates when cisplatin preceded taxol. Although neurotoxicity was initially thought to be a potentially serious effect of the combination, mild to modest neurotoxicity occurred in only 27% of patients. Adverse effects also included myalgias, alopecia, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia. Objective responses were noted in melanoma, as well as non-small-cell lung, ovarian, breast, head and neck, colon, and pancreatic carcinomas. Based on these results, the sequence of taxol before cisplatin at doses of 135 and 75 mg/m2, respectively, is recommended for phase II/III trials, with escalation of taxol to 170 mg/m2 if treatment is well tolerated. 
Femoro-femoral or ilio-femoral bypass for unilateral inflow reconstruction? Femoro-femoral and ilio-femoral bypass are two popular options for unilateral inflow reconstruction. In order to evaluate these alternative approaches, the records of 70 consecutive patients who underwent either femoro-femoral (n = 50) or ilio-femoral (n = 22) grafts were retrospectively reviewed. There were 46 men and 24 women, ranging in age from 27 to 84 years (mean: 66 years). Operative mortality was 10% for all femoro-femoral procedures, including 50% for emergent, 14% for synchronous, and 0% for solitary procedures; mortality was 9% for all ilio-femoral grafts including 20% for synchronous and 6% for solitary procedures. Among the elective solitary procedures, there was no significant difference with respect to operative time, blood loss, fluid requirement, time until resuming an oral diet, or duration of postoperative course for the two procedures. Five-year patency was 93% for all ilio-femoral and 57% for all femoro-femoral grafts. Although femoro-femoral bypass has been the more popular option for unilateral inflow reconstruction in this and other institutions, these findings justify the more widespread use of ilio-femoral bypass. 
Valvular heart disease: management and intervention. Clinical overview and discussion. The diagnosis and estimation of severity of valvular disease can usually be made by a well done history and physical examination. We now have a wealth of noninvasive techniques capable of imaging the heart and the great vessels. With Doppler echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging we are beginning to develop methods that can measure pressures and flow. All of these advances have duplicated to a large extent the information obtainable in the past only from cardiac catheterization and angiography. In some instances, in aortic and mitral stenosis, for example, echo-Doppler evaluation is so good that catheterization is rendered unnecessary. The decision to send patients to surgery without catheterization is especially secure when the valvular obstruction is very severe. When the gradient is only moderately increased, then estimation of severity depends on flow, and in many cases these patients are sent to catheterization before surgery is recommended. With regurgitant lesions there is less confidence with noninvasive techniques that the severity is always correctly estimated, and therefore catheterization and angiography are more often necessary before sending the patient to surgery. At the present time cardiac catheterization and angiography are required 1) whenever there is an inconsistency between the clinical picture and noninvasive information, for example, the symptomatic patient with aortic stenosis who has mild-to-moderate aortic stenosis by echo-Doppler techniques, and 2) whenever additional information not obtainable by noninvasive techniques is necessary, for example, the need to know the status of the coronary arterial circulation. Noninvasive techniques have not in any way replaced a good history and physical examination. 
Malaria in an urban emergency department: epidemiology and diagnostic features of 25 cases. This article presents a retrospective study of 25 patients diagnosed with malaria in an urban emergency department (ED) between June 1986 and June 1989. The mean annual case rate of malaria in this study group was more than three times the national rate. This may be ascribed to the notable ethnic diversity of the population. A history of travel to an area endemic for malaria was eventually elicited from all patients. The most common chief complaint was fever (56%) followed by abdominal pain (12%). Temperatures were elevated in 70% of the patients, with a mean temperature of 102.9 degrees F (39 degrees C). Gender was found to play a role in delaying diagnosis, with women accounting for 83% of a group of patients requiring multiple ED visits before diagnosis. The authors conclude that malaria must be considered when diagnosing patients in ethnically diverse populations. Gender may be associated with a delay in diagnosis. A careful travel history and a peripheral smear are aids in rapid diagnosis. 
Symptomatic xanthogranuloma of choroid plexus with unilateral hydrocephalus. Case report. Xanthogranulomas involving the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles are generally asymptomatic lesions. The case is reported of a 50-year-old man in whom a xanthogranuloma of the choroid plexus had occluded the left trigone, causing unilateral hydrocephalus of the left temporal horn and neurological symptoms. A review of the literature shows that xanthogranulomas of the glomus of the lateral ventricles differ from the xanthomatous cystic lesions of the third ventricle, which are probably akin to colloid cysts. 
Inherited protein C deficiency and nonhemorrhagic arterial stroke in young adults. Out of a consecutive series of 50 young people less than 45 years old with nonhemorrhagic arterial stroke, three patients had inherited protein C deficiency. CT revealed hypodense areas consistent with the clinical picture, and angiography showed occlusion of some intracranial arterial vessels. Other possible associated causes of stroke were ruled out. One patient had a transient ischemic attack and a peripheral venous thrombosis prior to the actual stroke, whereas the others were completely asymptomatic, as were relatives with the same deficiency. We suggest determining protein C in ischemic stroke of all young adults, especially when major risk factors are excluded. 
Problems in the surgical treatment of interstitial cystitis. Two series of patients with histologically proven interstitial cystitis that was unresponsive to hydrostatic bladder distension and intravesical chemotherapy with dimethyl sulfoxide have been studied. In the first series 24 patients were treated by subtotal cystectomy and substitution cystoplasty without further consideration; 8 of these 24 patients had persistent frequency due to active disease in the remaining trigone and/or urethra and in 2 cases this was severe. Because of this experience the second group of patients had routine biopsy of the trigone and assessment of urethral sensation as part of the initial assessment. In those in whom the trigone was unaffected, treatment was unchanged. If the trigone was affected, total cystourethrectomy was performed with substitution cystourethroplasty unless the patient chose or was advised to avoid surgery altogether or to have a simpler option such as conduit or continent urinary diversion. Trigonal biopsies should be part of the routine assessment of all patients being considered for surgery, since residual active disease is a major cause of dissatisfaction after subtotal cystectomy and substitution cystoplasty. 
Psychological aspects of orthognathic surgery: how people respond to facial change. This study was undertaken to explore the motivations and problems shared by adult orthognathic surgical patients over the age of 25. Objective findings included demographic information and reasons for seeking surgery. The majority of 65 respondents cited functional problems as their primary reason for seeking treatment. Eighty-nine percent were pleased with esthetic changes, and 83% responded that the functional problem had been corrected. For most, the greatest discomfort related to the surgery was the postoperative intensive care unit. Two of the most common side effects of the surgery were the loss of sensation in the lips and chin area and a short period of depression. Women had depression more often than men but were more enthusiastic about the final results of the procedure. Two major areas of interest to surgeons emerged from the research. First, although women have functional problems, the majority seem to have a desire for cosmetic improvement. Having a functional problem seemed to provide the psychological permission necessary to spend the time and money for a cosmetic change. The second point focused on the need for good communication between surgeon and patient. The patients who were more positive toward the procedure and more satisfied with the results were those who were better informed and who thought they had a good system of communication with the orthodontist, surgeon, and their respective staffs. 
Radiotherapy improves the outlook for patients older than 1 year with Pediatric Oncology Group stage C neuroblastoma. Children older than 1 year of age who have neuroblastoma with complete or partial removal of the primary tumor and positive intracavitary lymph nodes (Pediatric Oncology Group [POG] stage C) are a small but higher-risk subset of patients. To further evaluate the importance of identifying patients with POG stage C neuroblastoma and to assess the efficacy and toxicity of adding concurrent radiation therapy (RT) to chemotherapy (CT) in these children, a randomized study was conducted. Eligible patients received cyclophosphamide 150 mg/m2 orally days 1 to 7 and Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) 35 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) on day 8 (CYC/ADR) every 3 weeks for five courses with or without RT to primary tumor and regional lymph nodes (24 to 30 Gy/16 to 20 fractions). Second-look surgery was advised to evaluate response and to remove residual disease. Continuation therapy alternated CYC/ADR every 3 weeks with cisplatin 90 mg/m2 day 1 followed by teniposide 100 mg/m2 day 3 (CDP/VM) for two courses each. Secondary CT with CDP/VM alone was available for patients not achieving complete response (CR) following induction treatment and second-look surgery. Of 29 eligible patients randomized to CT alone, 13 achieved CR, and nine are disease-free (NED) 1 to 52 months (median, 35 months) off therapy. Twenty-two of 33 eligible cases treated with CT/RT attained CR, and 19 are NED 1 to 77 months (median, 23 months) off therapy. Local and metastatic relapses occurred in both arms. Differences in CR, event-free survival, and survival rates were significant, P = .013, .009, and .008, respectively. Surgical compliance was excellent and complications uncommon. Therapy was tolerable in both groups but hematopoietic toxicity was more common in the CT/RT arm. We conclude that POG stage C neuroblastoma in children older than 1 year of age is a higher-risk group that should be identified, that CT/RT provides superior initial and long-term disease control compared with CT alone in this patient subset, and that the occurrence of metastatic failures in both treatment groups suggests a need for more aggressive chemotherapy. 
Higher recurrence rate after coronary angioplasty in unstable angina pectoris. PURPOSE: Recurrent stenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is a significant problem, requiring repeat dilation in about one-third of all treated patients. Various clinical and procedure-related predictors have been proposed. Between 1983 and 1987, 257 patients underwent 322 procedures, where 380 stenoses were attempted. Indications were: stable angina pectoris 73%, unstable angina pectoris 22%, other indication 5%. The primary success rate was defined as a less than 50% remaining postprocedure stenosis. FINDINGS: Repeat angiograms were done for 88% of the initially successful cases, either six months after PTCA or if there was a clinical recurrence. Restenosis was defined as a recurrence of a more than 50% diameter stenosis. The restenosis rate was 33% and was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) for unstable (46%) than for stable angina pectoris (29%). There was a nonsignificant tendency to a higher restenosis rate in the left anterior descending artery than in the other coronary vessels. IMPLICATIONS: The increased restenosis rate seen after PTCA for unstable angina pectoris could be caused by a higher activity in systems affecting the proliferative processes in the smooth muscle cells of the arterial wall, which is thought to form the pathophysiologic basis for restenosis after PTCA. 
Pulmonary origin of left anterior descending coronary artery in tetralogy of Fallot. We report the case of a 4-year-old girl with an anomalous origin of the left anterior descending coronary artery from the pulmonary artery in association with tetralogy of Fallot. Creation of an intrapulmonary tunnel from a newly created aortopulmonary window to the coronary ostium in the pulmonary trunk and total repair of tetralogy of Fallot were successfully carried out. The advantage of intrapulmonary tunnel technique (Takeuchi method) for this very rare combination is stressed. 
Operative survival and 40 year follow up of surgical repair of aortic coarctation. OBJECTIVE--To study early and late mortality after surgical correction of coarctation of the aorta. DESIGN--Data on 223 patients operated on at the Westminster Hospital, London, between 1946 and 1981, were collected and updated by questionnaire. PARTICIPANTS--All 223 patients recorded as undergoing operation for aortic coarctation up to the end of 1981. Fifteen of 197 survivors were lost to follow up; most of them were patients from overseas. OUTCOME AND RESULTS--The early mortality (within one month of operation) was 12% overall, 2.6% for elective surgery, and 0% for the 77 patients undergoing surgery since 1968. Survivors were followed up for a total of 3288 patient years; in 27 follow up lasted more than 30 years. In a few it reached 40 years. Twenty two patients died during this period, 18 from causes that could be attributed to coarctation or its repair. Mortality was highest more than 20 years after the operation. CONCLUSION--Repair increased life expectancy in patients with aortic coarctation. Late problems caused by persistent hypertension or recoarctation became apparent in long term survivors. The increased risk of late mortality associated with the duration of preoperative hypertension was not statistically significant. There were no deaths from cerebrovascular accidents. (In an earlier necropsy series cerebrovascular accidents accounted for 11.8% of deaths.) The incidence of deaths from aneurysms resembled that in the earlier necropsy series. 
Pneumoparotid: a case report. Pneumoparotid is an unusual condition resulting from air being forced into the parotid ductal system. When it develops, it is a result of increased intraoral air pressure. Diagnosis is based on the etiologic factor, palpatory evidence of tissue emphysema, the escape of frothy saliva from the involved duct, and the sialographic finding of retained ductal air and ductal infection. 
Vascular trauma as a result of therapeutic procedures for the treatment of malignancy. Twenty-two iatrogenic vascular injuries caused by resection of tumors with local recurrences or adjuvant chemotherapy were treated over a 42-month period in 11 female and 8 male patients with cancer (58% had documented metastases). Sixteen of 22 vascular injuries were caused by intraarterial administration of chemotherapy (8 emboli; 8 direct catheter trauma), and six were caused by resection of tumors with local invasion. The injuries were extremity ischemia (15 extremities in 13 patients), pseudoaneurysm (4), expanding hematoma (3 injuries in 2 patients). Twenty-two surgical repairs included bypass of severely damaged arteries in five, embolectomy in five, interposition grafts in three, pseudoaneurysm resection and primary repair in three, primary repair of three vascular injuries, and one patch angioplasty. Leg amputation was required in two patients. Seventeen of 19 patients had successful vascular repairs with resolution of preoperative indications for vascular repair without intraoperative or postoperative deaths. Long term follow-up (mean, 17 months) showed no recurrence of vascular problems; however, two patients died of metastatic cancer at 6 and 24 weeks after vascular repair. This study supports an aggressive approach to the management of vascular injuries caused by therapeutic interventions for malignancy despite the presence of metastatic disease. 
Abnormal guanine nucleotide regulatory protein in MVP dysautonomia: evidence from reconstitution of Gs. We and others have used the term MVP dysautonomia for a particular subset of hyperadrenergic dysautonomia patients. The role of the stimulatory guanine nucleotide regulatory protein (Gs) in this dysautonomia was studied by cholate extraction of Gs from erythrocytes from 11 normal subjects and 14 symptomatic dysautonomic patients and reconstitution into cyc-S49 lymphoma membranes, which have normal receptor and adenylyl cyclase but lack Gs. Isoproterenol-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in the dysautonomia group was increased compared to that in controls [3.66 +/- 0.20 (mean +/- SE; n = 14) vs. 2.87 +/- 0.14 (n = 11) U cyc- reconstituted activity/mg erythrocyte protein; P less than 0.05]. beta-Adrenergic receptor high affinity state formation was greatest in the severely symptomatic group [KL/KH: severe symptoms, 130 +/- 48 (n = 6); mild symptoms, 33 +/- 7 (n = 7); control, 27 +/- 6 (n = 11); severe dysautonomia distinct, P less than 0.017]. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels of cholera toxin-dependent ADP-ribosylated G-proteins yielded no gross distinction between severely symptomatic and control groups. This subset of hyperadrenergic dysautonomia patients, thus, has supercoupled beta 2-adrenergic receptors (increase in both agonist binding and cyclase activation) conferred by an abnormal Gs, whose effects on agonist binding reflect the severity of illness. 
Ischemic complications of abdominal aortic surgery. From 1982 through 1988, 634 consecutive patients underwent abdominal aortic reconstruction for occlusive (37%) or aneurysmal (63%) disease. We studied the ischemic problems affecting the branches of the aorta, excluding the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries. Ischemic colitis (0.6%), spinal cord ischemia (0.16%), renal insufficiency (17%), and lower limbs ischemia (6.5%) were the major problems encountered. We identified the most significant factors associated with these complications such as hypotension, emergency, hypovolemia, preoperative renal function, suprarenal clamping, the quality of the preoperative investigation, and have suggested some specific preventive measures. 
Asbestos induced pericardial effusion and constrictive pericarditis. The number of disorders attributable to asbestos exposure has increased gradually over the years. The latest to be recorded is pericardial effusion and constrictive pericarditis, and three cases are reported here. A man with bilateral pleural thickening and plaques developed acute pericarditis and an effusion and was treated by pericardiectomy. Two men died from constrictive pericarditis associated with bilateral pleural effusions and diffusion pleural thickening. The pericardium showed nonspecific fibrous thickening. All had been occupationally exposed to asbestos. In the fatal cases the lungs contained amphibole fibres, in keeping with a modest degree of occupational exposure. Asbestos produces progressive fibrosis of the pericardium that is similar to diffuse pleural thickening and may be fatal. Both conditions may develop after relatively short or light exposure. 
The phenotype of the X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism syndrome. An assessment of 42 cases in the Philippines. The clinical phenotype of X-linked recessive torsion dystonia was documented in 42 affected individuals from 21 families. In 7 families, there were 9 sibships (core families) with 2 or more affected individuals available for evaluation. The ages of the patients ranged from 29 to 79 years with a mean of 46.2 +/- 10.1 years; the mean age of onset of dystonia was 35.0 +/- 8.0 years with a range of 12 to 48 years; and the mean duration of illness was 11.1 +/- 7.9 years. First manifestations were noted in the lower extremities in 36%, the axial musculature in 29%, the upper extremities in 23%, and in the head in 12% of the cases. The majority of patients displayed gait abnormalities (90%), leg dystonia (79%), oromandibular dystonia (64%), neck dystonia (57%), blepharospasm (57%), and truncal dystonia (52%). The disease generalized in 90% of the cases within 1 to 11 years of onset (median duration, 5 years). Overall, the condition was disabling, but the Fahn-Marsden disability score did not correlate with age of onset, duration of illness, site of onset, rate of generalization, or presence of parkinsonism. Thirty-six percent of the cases displayed at least 1 of the following "parkinsonian symptoms": bradykinesia, tremor, rigidity, loss of postural reflexes and a shuffling gait. Parkinsonism was diagnosed as definite in 14%, probable in 2%, and possible in 19% of the cases. Given this high association of dystonia and parkinsonism, we propose to call the disorder X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism syndrome (XDP). 
Computer- and robot-assisted resection of thalamic astrocytomas in children. Six children ranging in age from 2 to 10 years who harbored deep benign astrocytomas were operated upon using a computer- and robot-assisted system. A radical excision was achieved in all cases with no significant morbidity nor any mortality. The system consists of an interactive, three-dimensional display of computed tomographic image contours and digitized cerebral angiograms taken using the Brown-Roberts-Wells stereotactic frame. The surgical retractor is held and manipulated using a PUMA 200 robot. The position and orientation of the surgical retractor is displayed on the three-dimensional display. Preoperative planning and simulation are important features of this system. Movement of the brain after removal of the tumor and cerebrospinal fluid is substantial, so the tumor removal is based on visually defined margins. Enhanced computer graphics and robotic devices are important adjuncts to neurosurgical procedures and will find increasing use in the future. 
Randomized trial of doxorubicin, bisantrene, and mitoxantrone in advanced breast cancer: a Southwest Oncology Group study. Four hundred eleven women with metastatic breast cancer were randomly assigned to receive either 60 mg/m2 doxorubicin (130 patients), 320 mg/m2 bisantrene (146 patients), or 14 mg/m2 mitoxantrone (135 patients). The doses were given intravenously every 3 weeks with a cross-over design to determine their relative efficacy and toxicity. To be eligible, patients must have had one previous chemotherapy regimen, and patients who were estrogen receptor positive must have failed endocrine therapy. There were 365 patients assessable for response and 399 assessable for toxic effects. The median age was 57 years; 18% were premenopausal or perimenopausal. Visceral dominant disease was present in 66% of the patients. Ninety-seven percent of the patients had a disease-free interval from diagnosis to first recurrence of less than 1 year. The response rate was 28% with doxorubicin, 13% with bisantrene, and 14% with mitoxantrone (P = .004). Median time to treatment failure was 133 days with doxorubicin, 66 days with bisantrene, and 68 days with mitoxantrone (logrank P = .06). The median survival was 315 days for doxorubicin, 290 days for bisantrene, and 177 days for mitoxantrone (logrank P = .04), although survival at 2 years was similar for all three agents. There were five responses in the 66 patients crossed over to doxorubicin and one response each for patients crossed over to bisantrene (39 patients) or mitoxantrone (63 patients). Toxicity leading to discontinuance of therapy was more common with doxorubicin, and discontinuance of therapy was due primarily to patient's request or cardiotoxicity. The major dose-limiting toxic effect for all three agents was leukopenia. Nausea and vomiting, mucositis, and alopecia were more severe with doxorubicin. Congestive heart failure developed in nine patients treated with doxorubicin, zero patients treated with bisantrene, and two patients treated with mitoxantrone. A decrease in the left ventricular ejection fraction, as defined by moderate to severe Alexander grade changes, was more common in patients treated with doxorubicin (doxorubicin-treated patients = 20%, bisantrene-treated patients = 5%, and mitoxantrone-treated patients = 10%). This study demonstrates that bisantrene and mitoxantrone have only modest activity in metastatic breast carcinoma. The activity of doxorubicin is greater than that of the other two agents, but at a cost of increased toxicity. 
Myocardial infarction with minimal coronary atherosclerosis in the era of thrombolytic reperfusion. The Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) Study Group. The incidence of minimal residual atherosclerotic coronary obstruction after successful intravenous thrombolytic therapy was evaluated in 799 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Minimal residual coronary obstruction (less than or equal to 50%) was observed on selective coronary angiography performed 90 min after initiation of thrombolytic therapy in 43 patients (5.5%). In 42 other patients (5.4%), a greater than 50% but less than 100% residual stenosis noted at 90 min demonstrated further resolution of obstruction to less than 50% at an angiographic follow-up study 7 to 10 days later. Patients with minimal residual coronary obstruction were significantly younger (52 +/- 10.7 versus 56.7 +/- 10 years; p = 0.002) and had less multivessel coronary disease (p less than 0.001), better initial left ventricular ejection fraction (54 +/- 12% versus 50.2 +/- 11.4%; p = 0.006) and a lower in-hospital mortality rate (1% versus 7%; p = 0.04) than did patients who had a significant (greater than 50%) residual coronary obstruction after intravenous thrombolysis. Long-term follow-up study of patients with a minimal coronary lesion (average 1.5 +/- 0.6 years) and those with significant residual stenosis (average 1.6 +/- 0.7 years) demonstrated that the incidence of death (2.4% in patients with minimal stenosis versus 3.5% in those with significant stenosis) and recurrent myocardial infarction (5% each) were similar in both groups. New strategies are needed to prevent coronary rethrombosis in patients with minimal atherosclerosis after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. 
Cor triatriatum with isolated pulmonary venous stenosis in an adult: diagnosis with transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. The diagnosis of cor triatriatum in an adult was made from routine two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography. The findings of aliasing and turbulence in the roof of the left atrium suggested pulmonary venous stenosis. A transesophageal echocardiogram defined both the hemodynamic features of nonobstructing cor triatriatum and the presence of isolated pulmonary venous stenosis. The clinical use of transesophageal echocardiography with color flow Doppler in the elucidation of complex anatomic substrate is demonstrated. 
Regulation of thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptors is cell type specific: comparison of endogenous pituitary receptors and receptors transfected into non-pituitary cells. TRH, which does not elevate cyclic AMP, and elevation of cellular cyclic AMP decrease the density (down-regulate) of TRH receptors (TRH-Rs) on pituitary (GH3) cells. In this study we measured the effects of TRH and elevation of cyclic AMP on TRH-Rs expressed in non-pituitary cells transfected with a recently cloned mouse pituitary TRH-R complementary DNA. In stably transfected rat glioma (C6-2) cells and transiently transfected COS-1 cells TRH caused TRH-R down-regulation while elevation of cyclic AMP caused increases in TRH-R density. Hence, the effects of cyclic AMP on TRH-Rs in transfected C6-2 and COS-1 cells are different from those in GH3 cells while the effects of TRH on TRH-R are similar in all three cell types. These data show that regulation of TRH-Rs is cell type specific. 
Malignant tumours of the middle ear. The authors present 15 patients with middle ear malignant tumours, of which 13 were squamous cell carcinomas, one was a rhabdomyosarcoma and one a malignant lymphoma. In 11 of 13 patients with squamous cell carcinoma, long-standing chronic otitis media preceded the malignant process and only in 2 patients did the tumour develop without previous chronic infection. Most of the patients presented at an advanced stage of the disease: in 6 the tumour had destroyed surrounding bone, commonly involving the endocranium; in 7 the facial nerve was paralysed and in 8 patients there was total hearing loss. The diagnosis of malignant tumour was established before surgery in 5 patients, but 8 patients were operated upon for suspected chronic otitis. Three patients died without treatment and 10 were treated: 3 with radiotherapy because the tumour was inoperable, 3 had surgery only and 4 patients had surgery and received radiotherapy post-operatively. Of 7 operated patients only 2 are alive without signs of tumour. Our findings suggest that otologists should bear in mind this disease in patients with chronic suppurative otitis and accompanying suspected symptoms. In 2 patients with rare types of sarcoma of the middle ear the diagnosis of tumour was established at an advanced stage and they could not be treated. 
Chronic ulcerations following topical therapy with 5-fluorouracil for vaginal human papillomavirus-associated lesions. Applied topically to the vagina, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) cream is an effective therapy for human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated lesions of the vagina including condylomata acuminata and vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia. Although the acute side effects of 5-FU therapy are well recognized, long-term sequelae of intravaginal 5-FU use have not been described in detail in the literature. To assess the incidence and clinical course of 5-FU-related vaginal mucosal alterations, we studied 220 patients who underwent 5-FU therapy for HPV-associated lesions of the vagina. Eighteen women (8.2%) had epithelial ulcers 6 months after completion of the 5-FU treatment. The incidence of ulcers was higher in women who used 5-FU for longer than 10 weeks compared with those who used it for 10 weeks or less (9.6 versus 5.7%; P = .05). All but one of the mucosal defects were in the vaginal fornices and/or the periphery of the ectocervix. The ulcers were mostly singular and measured 0.5-7 cm in greatest diameter. Fourteen patients (77.8%) had symptoms related to the ulcers including a serosanguineous or watery discharge (55.6%), postcoital spotting or bleeding (44.4%), irregular bleeding unrelated to intercourse (16.7%), and pain (5.6%). Spontaneous healing of the ulcers was protracted. Office methods of therapy including estrogen creams and cauterizing agents failed to accelerate healing as compared with untreated patients. Excision of the ulcer and primary closure of the wound was curative in all four cases in which it was used. We conclude that topical 5-FU therapy may lead to troublesome chronic mucosal ulcers that tend to persist despite conservative treatment attempts. 
Coronary focal ectasia formation following percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Focal ectasia of the right coronary artery developed following percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Operative intervention was not deemed necessary. No restenosis was found on repeat coronary angiography. Five-yr follow-up was associated with a benign course. 
Iatrogenic renal disease. We studied iatrogenic problems in nephrology by classifying all patients for nephrology consultation into nine presenting syndromes and seven etiologic groups. One hundred (2.2%) of all admissions were seen in nephrology consultation. Acute renal failure was the most common presenting syndrome, accounting for 59% of the consultations. Forty-one of the 100 consultations (1% of all admissions) had a renewal syndrome of iatrogenic origin. Of these 41 patients, 38 had acute renal failure and three had fluid and electrolyte problems. Twenty of the 41 patients had drug-induced problems. Eighteen of these patients were dehydrated, and in three patients, acute renal failure occurred after surgery. Of the 20 patients with iatrogenic renal problems caused by drugs, seven problems were antibiotic related, five were due to diuretics, four were due to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, three were due to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and one was from the use of contrast medium. The 41 patients with iatrogenic-related renal disease were older than the other 59 patients (61.8 vs 49.3 years). Iatrogenic renal disease developed in 1% of all patients admitted to a tertiary care hospital, and 12% of these patients died. The most common renal syndrome is acute renal failure, most often caused by nephrotoxic drugs. The incidence can probably be decreased by better monitoring of body weight and fluid balance to prevent dehydration and by the avoidance of nephrotoxic drugs. 
Incidence of neuropathy in 395 patients with ovarian cancer treated with or without cisplatin. In two consecutive trials, a total of 395 patients with ovarian cancer were treated with a combination of hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapeutic regimens including cisplatin or without this drug. With respect to neurotoxicity, 387 patients were fully eligible. The median follow-up for survival was 45 months. Neurotoxicity in any grade of severity developed in 47% of the patients treated with a cisplatin-containing regimen and in 25% of those treated with the non-cisplatin-containing regimen. The severity of neurotoxicity was much higher, however, in the cisplatin-treated patients. Neurotoxicity-free survival decreased below 50% at cumulative doses of cisplatin between 500 and 600 mg/m2. No additional effect of hexamethylmelamine on the incidence or severity of neurotoxicity could be demonstrated. In patients who survived for more than 5 years, the incidence of cisplatin neuropathy was 61%. Prognostic variables (age, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics [FIGO] stage, performance status, and others) possibly associated with high-risk subgroups could not be identified. The only consistent factor correlated with neurotoxicity was the total dose of cisplatin received. 
Initial clinical experience with a 48 by 48 element biplane transesophageal probe. Recent technologic advances in ultrasound have resulted in the capability of transesophageal echocardiographic imaging in both transverse and longitudinal planes. Previous biplane probes suffered from inferior images because of reduced scan elements. We evaluated the utility of a prototype 48 X 48 element biplane transesophageal probe in 23 consecutive patients. Examinations were well tolerated with no side effects. In comparison to the single transverse plane, imaging with the longitudinal plane gave superior information on prosthetic valve pathology, atrial septal abnormalities, and pathoanatomy of the ascending aorta and mitral valve. Complementary information was provided by the longitudinal plane in patients with endocarditis and vegetations and in mitral protheses. Images obtained with this 48 X 48 element biplane probe along with color and spectral Doppler information were not perceptibly inferior to those obtained by single-plane probes. In conclusion, biplane transesophageal echocardiography with a 48 X 48 element probe indicates a great potential for enhanced three-dimensional understanding of cardiac pathology and diagnostic yield in specific pathologies. 
Risk of adverse events in children completing treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia: St. Jude Total Therapy studies VIII, IX, and X. We studied the frequency, causes, and predictors of adverse events in 624 patients who had completed treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in three consecutive total therapy studies (VII, IX, and X, 1972 to 1983). Event-free survival in study X was significantly better overall than that in studies VIII and IX (P less than .0001 by the log-rank test). In study X, 75% of the patients were electively taken off therapy, compared with 54% in studies VIII and IX. However, the risks of having an adverse event during the first 5 years after completion of therapy were remarkably similar: 22% (95% confidence interval, 17% to 29%) in study X versus 24% (20% to 29%) in studies VIII and IX. Bone marrow, testicular, and CNS relapses accounted for the majority of failures in both groups (85% in study X and 92% in studies VIII and IX). Late adverse events consisted largely of hematologic relapses and the development of solid tumors. Black race (P = .001) and leukemia without an anterior mediastinal mass (P = .05) were associated with an increased risk of failure after completion of treatment in the two earlier clinical trials, whereas a lower leukemic cell DNA content (DNA index less than 1.16) was the only predictor of late treatment failure in the more recent trial (P = .019). None of the other presenting features that were examined (eg, age, leukocyte count, and sex) had value as predictors of late failure. Thus, improved treatment altered the impact of specific prognostic factors and the distribution of sites of relapse, but it did not significantly affect the risk of delayed failure. 
An open, multicenter trial of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in acute stroke. A progress report. The rt-PA Acute Stroke Study Group. Sixteen clinical centers in two countries have undertaken a prospective open angiography- and computed tomography scan-based safety and efficacy dose-rate finding study of recombinant (two-chain) tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in acute thrombotic and thromboembolic stroke. Preliminary experience with 71 rt-PA treated patients in seven dose-rate groups has demonstrated both partial and complete recanalization, documented by angiography, although a dose response has not yet been achieved. Hemorrhagic infarction has been documented at all dose rates, and dose-rate independent cerebral hematomas have been observed. The study continues at higher dose rates while still remaining within the safety guidelines. 
Intraoperative identification of cardiac patients at risk to develop postoperative atrial fibrillation. Postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) is a complication occurring in 11% to 36% of patients after cardiac operations, which results in increased morbidity and hospital costs. A new electrophysiologic screening test was developed to identify those patients at risk for development of postoperative AF. The test was validated in 50 patients (43 men and 7 women) with a mean age of 59.6 +/- 1.3 years who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting with or without other cardiac surgical procedures. After aortic and venous cannulation, but before initiation of bypass, the mid-right atrium was stimulated with a bipolar probe at 25 microA for 3 seconds. Alternating current was increased by 25 microA until AF was induced or up to a maximum of 200 microA. Postoperative AF occurred in 18 patients (36%), 17 of whom had inducible AF (sensitivity = 0.94). Of the remaining 32 AF-free patients, 13 had negative tests (specificity = 0.41). Age and sex were not factors affecting inducibility, although patients who developed AF were older than those who were AF free (63.6 versus 57.3 years, p = 0.02). Length of stay in the intensive care unit was longer for those with postoperative AF than for AF-free patients (3.6 versus 1.9 days, p = 0.02). The negative predictive value of the test was 0.93, and the positive value was 0.47. These data show that this new intraoperative technique may be used to identify patients at risk for postoperative AF. Prophylactic therapy can therefore be directed to only those patients at risk for postoperative AF. 
Two patients with insulin resistance due to decreased levels of insulin-receptor mRNA. Mutations have been identified in the insulin-receptor gene in insulin-resistant patients. We studied two patients with acanthosis nigricans and insulin resistance caused by a decrease in the number of cell surface insulin receptors. Patient 1 was an 11-yr-old boy with a fasting insulin level of 2130 pM; patient 2 was a 14-yr-old girl with hyperandrogenism and a fasting insulin level of 580-740 pM. Based on Southern-blotting studies, the structure of both alleles of the insulin-receptor gene in both patients appeared to be grossly normal. There was no evidence of insertions, deletions, or major rearrangements. Moreover, the nucleotide sequences of all 22 exons of the gene were normal in both patients. Thus, the predicted amino acid sequences of both patients' insulin receptors were normal. In Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblasts from patient 1, insulin-receptor mRNA levels were so low they could not be detected with an RNase A protection assay, whereas mRNA levels from patient 2 were in the lower half of the normal range. By use of a more sensitive assay based on the polymerase chain reaction, insulin-receptor mRNA could be detected in Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblasts from both patients. Moreover, because of the existence of silent polymorphisms in the nucleotide sequences, it was possible to differentiate the two alleles of the insulin-receptor gene in both patients. In patient 2, the two alleles were expressed asymmetrically, with 90% of the mRNA molecules having been transcribed from one allele but only 10% transcribed from the second allele. This suggests that there is an unidentified mutation in the underexpressed allele that acts in a cis-dominant fashion to decrease insulin-receptor mRNA levels. However, in patient 1, both alleles were expressed symmetrically in similarly low levels. Although not proven, it seems likely that the mutations that decrease insulin-receptor mRNA levels in patient 1 also map to the insulin-receptor locus. 
Colonic ischemia complicating immunotherapy with interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha. Colonic ischemia (CI) is a rare complication of high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) immunotherapy. This complication occurred in three of 141 patients (2.1%) with metastatic cancer treated with high-dose IL-2 therapy; CI only developed in patients receiving interferon-alpha (IFN) with IL-2 (three of 21, 14%) compared with none of 120 in those patients receiving IL-2 alone (P equals 0.0009). Severe diarrhea (greater than or equal to 7 bowel movements/day) also was significantly more common in patients receiving IFN with IL-2 (six of 21, 29%) than in those receiving IL-2 alone (three of 120, 2.5%, P equals 0.001) and preceded the clinical diagnosis of CI in all three patients. Three of nine patients with severe diarrhea had CI. Hematochezia occurred in four patients, all of whom received IFN with IL-2; three had CI, and the other patient had nonspecific colitis. Differences in vasopressor use did not explain the increased risk of CI in patients receiving IFN; those receiving IFN with IL-2 required phenylephrine less often than patients receiving IL-2 alone (P equals 0.01). The administration of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells had no significant effect on the incidence of CI, severe diarrhea, peritonitis, or vasopressor use; two of three patients with CI, however, had their ischemic episode within 24 hours after the last of three LAK cell infusions. In conclusion, CI is an unusual complication of high-dose IL-2 and IFN immunotherapy. In patients receiving such combination therapy, severe diarrhea is a risk factor for the subsequent occurrence of CI. 
Prostate-specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase: biomolecular and physiologic characteristics. PSA is a 34-kd 240-amino acid glycoprotein produced by the prostatic epithelial cells. It is a member of the glandular kallikrein gene family and has a high sequence homology with human glandular kallikrein (hGK-1). PSA is a serine protease and has chymotrypsin-, trypsin-, and esterase-like activities. It is secreted into the seminal fluid where it degrades two seminal vesicle proteins that are important components of the semen coagulum, thus playing an important role in semen liquefaction. The production of PSA protein appears to be under the control of circulating androgens acting through the androgen receptor. Therefore, the significance of a low serum PSA value in a patient who has undergone previous antiandrogen therapy may not be the same as that for a patient who has not received endocrine treatment. 
Fatal aortic rupture during balloon dilatation of recoarctation. In an eight year old boy with a patch aortoplasty, the aorta ruptured during balloon angioplasty for recoarctation. At necropsy a 1.5 cm long, full thickness tear and a separate, smaller, intimal tear were found. Histological examination showed thinning of the elastic laminae of the aorta. Angioplasty for recoarctation may be dangerous in patients with a patch aortoplasty. 
The danger of an ultra-early computed tomographic scan in a patient with an evolving acute epidural hematoma. A case of an acute traumatic epidural hematoma that developed after an ultra-early computed tomographic scan of the head is discussed. Serial neurological examinations in patients with head injuries are recommended. 
Principal causes of mechanical bowel obstruction in surgically treated adults in western Turkey. A retrospective study of the principal causes of mechanical bowel obstruction occurring in Western Turkey between 1979 and 1989 was undertaken. The records of 14,777 operations performed in the general surgery departments of two hospitals were reviewed. Mechanical bowel obstruction occurred in 582 patients. Among the causes of mechanical bowel obstruction, adhesions were most common (44.0 per cent), followed by strangulated hernia (23.9 per cent), volvuli (12.7 per cent) and colonic carcinomas (10.1 per cent). A previous appendicectomy appeared to be the most important cause of adhesions causing mechanical bowel obstruction. 
Total body calcium in patients with inflammatory bowel disease: a longitudinal study. 1. Serial measurements of total body calcium have been made by prompt gamma-neutron activation analysis in 13 patients with inflammatory bowel disease over a mean period of 23 months. Changes in spinal trabecular bone mineral density and radial shaft bone mineral content were also assessed by using quantitative computed tomography and single photon absorptiometry, respectively. 2. The mean annual decreases (95% confidence intervals) were: total body calcium, 7.8% (-12.0 to -3.7%; P less than 0.001); spinal trabecular bone mineral density, 2.5% (-5.0 to +0.1%; 0.05 less than P less than 0.1), radial bone mineral content, 2.1% (-3.4 to -0.8%; P less than 0.01). 3. No significant correlations were found between rates of change of the three variables. However, there were significant positive correlations between the baseline values for total body calcium and radial bone mineral content (r = 0.638, P less than 0.05), spinal bone mineral density and radial bone mineral content (r = 0.854, P less than 0.01), and total body calcium and spinal bone mineral density (r = 0.876, P less than 0.001). 4. These results demonstrate rapid decreases in total body calcium in patients with inflammatory bowel disease which, in conjunction with the significant decrease in radial shaft bone mineral content, indicate increased rates of cortical bone loss. Whilst values for bone mass at different skeletal sites showed positive correlations within individuals, no relationship was found between the rates of change in bone mass at these sites. 5. The rapid bone loss observed in some subjects emphasizes the importance of early detection of osteoporosis by bone densitometry and the need for effective prophylactic measures to be established in this group of patients. 
Treatment of meningitis and other infections due to ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus influenzae type b in children. Cefotaxime and other cephalosporins were retrospectively evaluated for the treatment of meningitis and non-central nervous system (CNS) infections due to ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). Between January 1985 and February 1989, 45 cases of meningitis and 27 cases of non-CNS infection due to ampicillin-resistant Hib were documented at Texas Children's Hospital in Houston. Of the 45 children with meningitis, 26 (57.8%) were treated with cefotaxime, 11 (24.4%) with chloramphenicol, and three (6.7%) with cefuroxime; five children (11.1%) were initially given chloramphenicol but later received cefotaxime instead. In addition, 14 chloramphenicol-treated patients from a previous study were included in this analysis. There were no significant differences in terms of neurologic sequelae or other complications (except diarrhea) between the cefotaxime and chloramphenicol groups. The efficacy of cefotaxime was equivalent to that of chloramphenicol for the treatment of ampicillin-resistant Hib meningitis. Cefuroxime was as safe and effective as chloramphenicol or cefotaxime for the treatment of non-CNS infections due to ampicillin-resistant Hib. 
Effect of age on use of thrombolytic therapy and mortality in acute myocardial infarction. The MITI Project Group. The findings in 3,256 consecutive patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction were tabulated to assess the history, treatments and outcome in the elderly; 1,848 patients (56%) were greater than 65 years of age, including 28% who were aged greater than or equal to 75 years. The incidence of prior angina, hypertension and heart failure (only 3% of patients less than 55 years of age had a history of heart failure compared with 24% greater than or equal to 75 years old) was found to increase with age. Twenty-nine percent of patients less than 75 years of age were treated with a systemic thrombolytic drug compared with only 5% of patients older than 75 years. Mortality rates increased strikingly with advanced age (less than 2% in patients less than or equal to 55, 4.6% in those 55 to 64, 12.3% in those 65 to 74 and 17.8% in those greater than or equal to 75 years). Both the incidence of complicating illness and a nondiagnostic electrocardiogram (ECG) increased with age. In a multivariate analysis of outcome in older patients (greater than or equal to 65 years), adverse events were related to both prior history of heart failure (odds ratio 3.9) and increasing age (odds ratio 1.4 per each decade of age). Outcome was not improved by treatment with thrombolytic drugs, but these agents were prescribed to only 12% of patients greater than 65 years of age, thereby reducing the power for detecting such an effect. 
Pararectus retroperitoneal radical nephrectomy. We describe a new pararectus retroperitoneal approach to the kidney, which allows easy identification and occlusion of the renal vessels before mobilization of the kidney. This approach potentially reduces morbidity, hospital stay and cost. The technique has been used in 4 cases of radical nephrectomy for tumor and in 1 for pyonephrosis. 
The effect of magnesium sulfate on the biophysical profile of normal term fetuses. Forty term pregnant women with singleton breech gestations admitted for external cephalic version underwent biophysical profile testing before any fluid infusion or medication. After magnesium sulfate had been infused for contraction prophylaxis, the maternal serum magnesium level was measured and a second biophysical profile was performed. The mean (+/- SD) serum magnesium was 5.1 +/- 1.0 mg/dL. The biophysical profile score decreased significantly, reflecting a decrease in fetal breathing activity. In patients with therapeutic maternal serum magnesium levels, loss of any component of the biophysical profile other than respiration cannot be attributed to the elevation in magnesium concentration. 
Hemicholinium-3 derivatives A-4 and A-5 alter choline metabolism in NB41A3 neuroblastoma cells. A-4, A-5 and HC-3 are experimental bis tertiary and quaternary amines which have been shown to be potent inhibitors of the sodium-dependent, high affinity choline uptake system. When incubated with neuroblastoma cells, experimental compounds A-4, A-5 and HC-3 inhibit choline metabolism. Over a 24-hr incubation, A-4, A-5 and HC-3 produced a significant decrease in total choline accumulation, choline incorporation into phospholipid and free choline content. However, despite decreases in choline incorporation into phospholipid, no change occurred in content of phosphatidylcholine. Treatment of cells with A-4, A-5 and HC-3 resulted in an increase in the incorporation of S-adenosyl-methionine into phosphatidylcholine. However, the incorporation of ethanolamine or serine into phosphatidylcholine was not increased. Phosphatidylcholine turnover was decreased in cells treated with A-4 and A-5. A-4, A-5 and HC-3 produce significant decreases in choline metabolism; however, the cells are able to maintain membrane integrity by decreasing turnover of phosphatidylcholine and increasing phosphatidylcholine synthesis through the methylation pathway. These studies suggest that the biological effects of A-4 and A-5 are independent of membrane perturbations. 
Cardiac myofibroblasts express alpha smooth muscle actin during right ventricular pressure overload in the rabbit. A number of changes occur in contractile proteins and mechanical performance of the heart within 2 weeks of right ventricular pressure overload in 8- to 12-week-old rabbits. These changes are accompanied by increases in collagen concentration and the ratio of type I to type III collagen. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the evolution of these connective tissue changes morphologically and to characterize the interstitial cells that might be responsible. The myocardium is infiltrated by mononuclear inflammatory cells 2 days after banding, accompanied by focal myocyte necrosis. By 7 days, the inflammatory infiltrates subside and the damaged myocytes seen at 2 days are replaced by new collagen and a population of spindle-shaped cells, with ultrastructural features of myofibroblasts. A significant proportion of these cells contain alpha smooth muscle actin by immunohistochemical analysis. At 14 days, there is a large increase in stainable collagen with complex remodeling and reduplication of the collagen fiber network of the interstitium. Alpha smooth muscle actin-containing myofibroblasts persist, but their immunoreactivity appears reduced compared with day 7. The authors hypothesize that the interstitial fibroblasts that acquire smooth-muscle-like features in this model play a critical role in the heart's response to severe and sudden mechanical stress and are at least partly responsible for the changes in connective tissue that occur as a result of pressure overload in this model. 
Solitary polyclonal autonomous thyroid nodule: a rare cause of childhood hyperthyroidism. Solitary autonomous thyroid tumors are an unusual cause of hyperthyroidism, particularly in childhood. We describe the youngest individual so far reported with this condition, a 22 month child with a large hyperfunctioning thyroid nodule who became overtly hyperthyroid after iodinated contrast administration. The histology of the nodule was compatible with follicular cell hyperplasia. These tumors are often called toxic adenomas, although there is no solid evidence that they are true neoplasms. We examined the clonal composition of the child's thyroid tumor by X-chromosome inactivation analysis, taking advantage of a polymorphism in the X-chromosome gene phosphoglycerate kinase. The tumor consisted of an even mixture of cells containing activated paternal and maternal PGK alleles, indicating that the tumor was polyclonal. Furthermore, the nodule had no structural rearrangements or activating point mutations of ras oncogenes, which are found in up to 50% of solitary monoclonal follicular adenomas. Solitary hot nodules may at least in some cases be secondary to hyperplasia, and not to clonal expansion of an abnormal, mutated cell. This may also explain the relatively low frequency of malignant transformation observed in hyperfunctioning thyroid tumors. 
Alteration of the pulsatile load in the high-altitude calf model of pulmonary hypertension. We compared main pulmonary arterial elasticity and global pulmonary arterial compliance in control and high-altitude (HA) calves to determine whether 1) changes in pulmonary arterial elasticity are contributing to an increase in the oscillatory load of the right ventricle in this model of pulmonary hypertension and 2) measured changes in stiffness of the HA calves' arterial wall are the result of both an increase in pressure and an alteration of the material properties of the HA calves' arterial wall. Newborn calves were placed at 4,300 m simulated altitude for 14 days, and control calves were kept at 1,500 m. The HA calves were then reacclimatized to 1,500 m for 24 h so that baseline pressures of the two groups were similar. Open-chest main pulmonary arterial and right ventricular micromanometric pressures, ultrasonic main pulmonary arterial diameter, and green dye flow were measured under baseline conditions and then under moderate and severely hypoxic conditions to make measurements at both baseline and increased pulmonary pressures. At elevated pressures, the pressure-diameter relationship was noted to be nonlinear, and a characteristic late systolic peaking of the right ventricular pressure waveform was seen. The Peterson pressure-strain modulus, pulse wave velocity, characteristic impedance, and global compliance (3 element windkessel) were calculated. The calculated variables were all shown to be pressure dependent, and no intrinsic differences in stiffness were seen between the control and HA animals when mean pressure was taken into account. Pulmonary arterial histology demonstrated, however, a characteristic increase in wall thickness in the HA animals. Thus, in this model of pulmonary hypertension, major changes in elasticity and pulsatile load are primarily due to an increase in pulmonary pressure. The structural changes present in the HA calves' arterial wall did not separately produce any measurable changes in arterial distensibility or the oscillatory load. 
Behavioral audiometry. Behavioral audiometry is based on observation of overt responses to controlled auditory stimuli, as contrasted with electrophysiologic procedures, which involve electrophysiologic monitoring or direct recording of the bioelectric correlates of the original signal. When reinforcement is added to the behavioral procedures, the infant or young child provides highly reliable responses, and it is possible to test most infants 6 months of age and older with these procedures. The combination of both behavioral and electrophysiologic procedures can resolve most clinical questions regarding the auditory function of young infants and children. 
Oral acyclovir therapy of recurrent herpes simplex virus type 2 infection of the hand. Acyclovir was evaluated as treatment of recurrent herpes simplex virus type 2 infection of the hand in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. In nine fully evaluable patients, oral acyclovir (2 g/day in three doses for 10 days) initiated during the earliest phase of a recurrence reduced the mean durations (+/- standard deviation) of clinical symptoms from 10.1 (+/- 3.6) to 3.7 (+/- 3.0) days (P = 0.008), signs from 11.1 (+/- 3.7) to 6.2 (+/- 3.3) days (P = 0.024), and viral positivity from 5.3 (+/- 3.8) to 0.6 (+/- 1.1) days (P = 0.011). 
Patient-controlled analgesia. Does a concurrent opioid infusion improve pain management after surgery? OBJECTIVE.--To assess the influence of a continuous (basal) morphine infusion as part of a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) system on the postoperative analgesic requirement and on recovery parameters following abdominal hysterectomy. DESIGN.--Single-center, randomized, controlled protocol. SETTING.--University medical center. PARTICIPANTS.--A total of 230 adult women were randomly assigned to receive no morphine infusion (control group) or a continuous 0.5-, 1.0-, or 2.0-mg/h morphine infusion. Each patient was able to self-administer supplemental intravenous bolus doses of morphine (1 to 2 mg) using a PCA infuser. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Use of the PCA device, opioid-related side effects, recovery times, and the patients' assessment of pain and sedation on linear visual analog scales were recorded during the 72-hour study period. Follow-up questionnaires were completed by the patients and their health care professionals to assess the overall adequacy of PCA therapy. RESULTS.--Patients who received the 2-mg/h morphine infusions received significantly more opioid medication 9 to 72 hours after their operation than those who received no infusion (control group). The presence of a continuous morphine infusion of 0.5 to 2 mg/h did not significantly decrease the number of patient demands or supplemental bolus doses administered compared with the control group. Overall, 168 (84%) of the 199 patients who completed the 72-hour study were able to achieve adequate analgesia without requiring changes in the PCA regimen or experiencing major side effects. Recovery times and outcome variables were similar in all four groups. CONCLUSION.--The routine use of a continuous opioid infusion in combination with a standard PCA regimen does not improve pain management compared with PCA alone after abdominal hysterectomy. 
Leukaemia mortality among relatives of cystic fibrosis patients. A total of 219 families of patients with cystic fibrosis living in Wales were studied for the occurrence of other diseases and for cause of death, and the findings in relation to leukaemia are reported. There were eight deaths due to leukaemia, five of the myeloid type, in first and second degree relatives; this is significantly more than the expected on the basis of national age specific mortality rates. In comparison, mortality among siblings, parents, aunts and uncles, and grandparents from all causes was within the expected. Screening the five patients with myeloid leukaemia for the delta F508 mutation showed that four were carriers of this mutation. It is concluded that carriers of the delta F508 mutation may have an increased risk of developing acute myeloid leukaemia. This could happen through the direct effect of the cystic fibrosis gene itself, or through its influence on another gene, such as the met oncogene, or gene(s) involved in granulocyte function on the long arm of chromosome 7. 
Subclinical cardiac dysfunction in sarcoidosis. Clinically apparent myocardial disease is infrequent in sarcoidosis. However, autopsy data show myocardial involvement in up to 30 percent of patients. Unexplained exertional symptomatology is a common complaint in patients with sarcoidosis. In this study, we investigated whether abnormal cardiac function might limit exercise performance in patients with sarcoidosis without overt cardiac involvement. We studied exercise responses in 35 patients with sarcoidosis and compared them with 28 untrained controls. Seventy-seven percent of the patients were symptomatic. Pulmonary function test results were lower in the group with sarcoidosis than normal controls, but they were within normal range. Only one patient had evidence of ventilatory limitation to exercise. Sixteen (46 percent) patients had abnormally increased heart rates (HRs) at rest prior to exercise testing and/or with exercise. Rapid HRs were confirmed during daily activities by continuous ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was measured to determine if systolic dysfunction could account for abnormal HR responses. Of patients with abnormally increased HRs, five had LVEFs less than 50 percent, and eight had normal LVEFs, of whom 75 percent had tachycardia at rest. Retrospective comparison of HR responses and LVEF between patients who did or did not receive corticosteroids revealed no significant differences between groups. We conclude that abnormal HR responses in patients without evident cardiac sarcoidosis are common and exertional symptoms in this population are often associated with chronotropic abnormalities. The exact mechanisms underlying the chronotropic abnormalities are unclear, but they likely include ventricular systolic dysfunction, sinus node dysfunction from granulomatous infiltration, or combinations of the two. 
Effect of massive dose vitamin A on morbidity and mortality in Indian children The effect of vitamin A supplementation on preschool child morbidity and mortality was assessed in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study around Hyderabad, India. Every six months 200,000 IU vitamin A was given to 7691 children (treatment group) whereas 8084 children received a placebo (control group). Morbidity and mortality data were collected every three months. Risk of respiratory infection was higher in children with mild xerophthalmia than in children with normal eyes. Vitamin A supplementation had no effect on morbidity status. Mortality rates were similar in the two groups; it was highest in children who did not receive either vitamin A or placebo. The findings suggest that vitamin A supplementation alone may not reduce child mortality. 
Origin of malignant centrofacial granulomas: surface markers and gene rearrangement of malignant cells. Malignant centrofacial granuloma (MCFG) is a clinical entity characterized by a relentless ulceration of the upper airway involving the nose, palate, and face, without any demonstrable etiology. The origin of 11 cases were analyzed with the help of cell-surface immunostaining in all and with T-cell receptor gene (TCR) rearrangement in 3. The results show that most of the cases of MCFG are in fact T-cell lymphomas with cell-surface antigens (CD2, CD7, CD3) consistent with either early or mature T lymphocytes. However, some cases exhibit B-lymphoid (CD19, CD20) or histiomonocytic (CD13, CD14) lineage-specific markers. In conclusion, despite its remarkable clinical unity, MCFG is a heterogeneous group of neoplastic diseases, most but not all of which may be classified as T-cell lymphoma. 
Popliteal aneurysm with spontaneous arteriovenous fistula. This report documents a rare manifestation of aneurysmal disease of the popliteal artery. We describe a popliteal aneurysm presenting with acute venous hypertension due to a spontaneously occurring arteriovenous fistula. The fistula was defunctionalized by treating the aneurysm with a standard technique of exclusion and bypass with resolution of the symptoms of venous hypertension and maintenance of normal distal perfusion. 
Extraocular muscle surgery in myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis is typically a disease of young people in active employment who need a field of binocular single vision. Although it is systemically controllable with a good chance of spontaneous remission, persistent loss of binocularity may cause chronic disability. We report our experience of extraocular muscle surgery in five patients with stable myasthenia gravis and persistent double vision. Extraocular muscle involvement was selective, giving rise to incomitant and concomitant squints, with individual muscle overactions as well as underactions. Treatment was by conventional recession and resection procedures with the additional use of Faden and adjustable sutures where appropriate. In all five cases a larger, stable field of binocular single vision was established. It is concluded that extraocular muscle surgery may be beneficial in selected cases of myasthenia gravis. 
A comparison of sucralfate with placebo in the treatment of esophageal ulcers following therapeutic endoscopic sclerotherapy of esophageal varices--a prospective controlled randomized trial. In 1984 Roark published the first report of a sucralfate treatment of esophageal ulcers after sclerotherapy. Because this was an uncontrolled trial we planned a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study with 60 patients. After therapeutic paravariceal injection-sclerotherapy of esophageal varices, patients were randomly treated with sucralfate suspension or placebo. Time of treatment was limited to a maximum of 3 weeks and the dosage of sucralfate was 1 g q.i.d. (Ulcogant-Suspension). Healing was assessed by endoscopy at weekly intervals. Fifty-three patients (25 sucralfate, 28 placebo) were evaluable according to the protocol. No patient left the study because of side effects. At the start of the trial, the patients in the sucralfate group showed a larger ulcer area than the placebo group. There was a tendency to faster healing in the sucralfate group, especially in patients with deeper ulcerations. However, there was no significant difference in global healing between both treatment groups after 3 weeks. Sucralfate suspension may be of value in accelerating the healing process in esophageal ulcers after sclerotherapy, especially in patients with deep ulcers. These results should be confirmed in further trials, in which patients should be stratified with respect to their ulcer volume and severity of liver disease. 
Orthostatic vital signs in emergency department patients. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the variability and define the normal ranges of orthostatic vital signs in an emergency department population. DESIGN: Descriptive. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Adult ED patients with no history of recent blood or fluid losses. MEASUREMENTS: Lying and standing heart rate and blood pressure measured by an automated instrument. RESULTS: In 132 presumed euvolemic patients, the statistical normal ranges (mean +/- 2 SD) of orthostatic vital signs were wide: on standing, the heart rate range was from decreases 5.0 to increases 39.4 beats per minute; for systolic blood pressure, the range was decreases 20 to increases 25.7 mm Hg; and for diastolic blood pressure, the range was decreases 6.4 to increases 24.9 mm Hg. In this sample, 43% had "positive" orthostatic vital signs according to currently accepted values. CONCLUSION: The data from this study indicate that there is a wider than expected variation in orthostatic vital signs among presumed euvolemic ED patients. 
Prognosis of symptomatic duodenal adenomas in familial adenomatous polyposis. The frequent association between familial adenomatous polyposis and duodenal tumors is increasingly recognized, yet many patients do not benefit from adequate diagnosis and follow-up of upper gastrointestinal polyps. A retrospective review of 14 patients with duodenal tumors associated with familial adenomatous polyposis was undertaken to assess the impact of early diagnosis by screening asymptomatic patients. Six of eight patients presenting with symptoms suggesting duodenal disease had invasive cancer. Four of these six patients died after surviving a mean of 13 months after diagnosis. In contrast, none of the six patients diagnosed after screening with upper gastrointestinal endoscopy has had invasive carcinoma. Early diagnosis and long-term surveillance of asymptomatic patients with familial adenomatous polyposis affords the opportunity to diagnose and treat duodenal tumors at an early stage, thereby, avoiding the dismal prognosis once invasive cancer has developed. 
Triiodothyronine-enhanced left ventricular function after ischemic injury. Hypothyroidism is associated with profound left ventricular dysfunction. Brain-dead organ donors and patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass are chemically hypothyroid with significantly reduced circulating free triiodothyronine (T3). To test the hypothesis that T3 enhances left ventricular function in a hormonally deficient environment, a total of 36 healthy New Zealand White rabbit hearts were studied using a modified Langendorff preparation with Krebs-Henseleit perfusate and intra-ventricular balloon. In 9 normal rabbit hearts a cumulative dose-response curve with logarithmically increasing doses of T3 was obtained. The vehicle solution for T3 dissolution served as control (n = 9). Left ventricular function was assessed from peak developed pressure at baseline and after T3 administration. Triiodothyronine had no effect in normal hearts on peak developed pressure or end-diastolic pressure. In 18 rabbits, the acute effect of T3 administration after ischemia was investigated. Preischemic left ventricular function was measured to serve as baseline, and hearts were subjected to 37 degrees C global ischemia. Triiodothyronine (n = 9) or vehicle (n = 9) was infused during reperfusion, and left ventricular peak developed pressure was measured at 30 and 60 minutes of reperfusion. Recovery of function (expressed as percent return of left ventricular peak developed pressure) was significantly improved within 15 minutes of reperfusion (65.0% +/- 2.1% versus 80.2% +/- 4.1%) and remained significantly improved throughout the reperfusion period (p less than 0.05 by analysis of variance). These data suggest that although T3 possesses no inotropic properties, it significantly improves postischemic left ventricular function. The rapidity of the functional improvement suggests that these effects may be due to plasma membrane-mediated mechanisms. 
Brain protection during circulatory arrest. Previous nuclear magnetic resonance studies in this laboratory have shown a beneficial biochemical effect of antegrade cerebroplegia (CP-A) during hypothermic circulatory arrest. This study compared CP-A with other methods of cerebral protection during hypothermic circulatory arrest to assess the clinical utility of this technique. Twenty-three sheep were divided into four groups: systemic hypothermia alone (SYST) and systemic hypothermia combined with external cranial cooling (EXTNL), retrograde cerebroplegia (CP-R), or CP-A. Cardiopulmonary bypass was started, and the sheep were cooled to 15 degrees C and subjected to 2 hours of circulatory arrest. Cardiopulmonary bypass was restarted, and the animals were rewarmed and weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass. Serial neurological examinations were performed and hourly scores assigned until the animals were extubated. Postanesthetic neurological scores improved in all groups throughout the 6-hour recovery period except the CP-R group. The improvement over time for these scores was similar for the EXTNL and CP-A groups and significantly better than for the SYST or CP-R groups (p = 0.004). The CP-A group had 5 of 7 animals with deficit-free survival despite the similarity in recovery of baseline brainstem function. We conclude that both antegrade infusion of cerebroplegia and external cranial cooling confer distinct cerebroprotective effects after a protracted period of hypothermic circulatory arrest when compared with the other methods studied. 
Diagnosis of cerebral amyloid angiopathy by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of cystatin C in cerebrospinal fluid. An abnormally low level of cystatin C in the cerebrospinal fluid is a diagnostic marker for the hereditary form of brain hemorrhage associated with amyloidosis that was first identified in Iceland. We developed an assay for cystatin C to use in the diagnosis of patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy and brain hemorrhage. This test consists of a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal mouse anticystatin C and polyclonal rabbit anticystatin C antibodies. The cystatin C level was assayed in cerebrospinal fluid samples from 29 patients with brain hemorrhage and 45 control patients with other neurological diseases. Fifteen patients with brain hemorrhage showed low cystatin C levels (less than or equal to 70 ng/ml) in a clinical setting in which the positive and negative findings were compatible with a diagnosis of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Immunohistological examination of brain tissue obtained by biopsy from two of the 15 patients confirmed the diagnosis of cerebral amyloid angiopathy and identified the deposition of cystatin C and beta-protein. This enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay is simple to perform and may be useful for investigating patients suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy with brain hemorrhage and the deposition of cystatin C. 
Pain on intradermal injection with lignocaine. The effect of concentration. Twenty ASA 1 volunteers were each injected intradermally with four solutions containing 0.2 ml of 0.5%, 1%, and 2% lignocaine and 0.9% saline to determine whether the pain experienced on injection was related to the concentration of local anaesthetic. A 10 cm linear analogue pain scoring system was used, and the solutions were ranked from most painful to least painful. There were no differences between the different concentrations of lignocaine and 0.9% saline in the severity of pain experienced. We conclude that any concentration of lignocaine may be used intradermally before inserting intravenous catheters without affecting the degree of pain experienced by that injection. 
Dissociation of second messenger activation by parathyroid hormone fragments in osteosarcoma cells. PTH activates multiple second messengers in its target cells, but the level at which the hormonal signal splits into different pathways is still unknown. To achieve insights on this issue, we have studied the structure-function relationship of PTH by analyzing the effects of bovine PTH-(1-34) [bPTH-(1-34)] and PTH fragments truncated at the N-terminus on the intracellular calcium concentration [( Ca2+]i) and cAMP production in the rat osteogenic sarcoma cell line UMR 106-01. [Ca2+]i was measured in single cells using fura-2. When exposed to 10(-7) M bPTH-(1-34), 20% of the cells responded with a transient increase in [Ca2+]i of variable amplitude. Equimolar doses of bPTH-(2-34), propionyl bPTH-(2-34) [(pbPTH-(2-34)], and bPTH-(3-34) also transiently increased [Ca2+]i, whereas both [tyrosine34]bPTH-(7-34) amide [bPTH-(7-34)] and bPTH-(30-34) were ineffective. The amplitude of the [Ca2+] i transients was dose-dependent, with threshold concentrations of 10(-10) M for bPTH-(1-34) and bPTH-(2-34), and 10(-9) M for bPTH-(3-34). The response rate to the active peptides ranged between 10-30%, without a clear dose-relatedness. A second addition of 10(-7) M bPTH-(1-34) to cells prestimulated with equimolar doses of bPTH-(2-34), pbPTH-(2-34), or bPTH-(3-34) produced another transient, whereas after exposure to 10(-7) M bPTH-(1-34), the cells were completely desensitized to a second homologous stimulation, suggesting that the binding affinity of the truncated peptides for the PTH receptor is lower than that of the intact bPTH-(1-34) fragment. In addition, both bPTH-(1-34) and bPTH-(2-34) dose-dependently stimulated cAMP production, but the former was more potent (ED50 = 10(-9) vs. 10(-7) M, respectively). On the contrary, pbPTH-(2-34), bPTH-(3-34), and bPTH-(7-34) had no effect on cAMP. Pretreating the cells with pertussis toxin to enhance cAMP responses via inhibition of Gi potentiated the effect of bPTH-(1-34) and bPTH-(2-34) and disclosed weak but detectable agonist action of pbPTH-(2-34). These results indicate that specific domains of the PTH molecule are linked to activation of different second messenger pathways; while the first two amino acids are indispensable for activating the cAMP system, generation of the [Ca2+]i signal appears to involve a longer domain, including the amino acid residue in position 3. 
Molecular evaluation of response to all-trans-retinoic acid therapy in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. The advent of retinoic acid (RA) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) has led to a high frequency of short-lasting complete remissions (CR). We studied the response to RA by molecularly analyzing the RA receptor alpha (RAR alpha) locus, which has recently been shown to be rearranged in all APLs. Southern blot analysis demonstrated that the RAR alpha rearrangements persisted in the APL samples containing maturing myeloid cells 2 to 3 weeks after the start of RA treatment, but disappeared after 5 to 8 weeks, when the patients achieved CR. Our investigations provide clear evidence that CR occurs at molecular level and that there is reconstitution of an apparently normal, nonclonal hematopoiesis. Further, it shows that RA acts by triggering differentiation rather than by exerting a cytotoxic effect on the leukemic clone. 
The role of intraluminal radiotherapy and concurrent 5-fluorouracil infusion in the management of carcinoma esophagus: a pilot study. Fifty patients with carcinoma of the esophagus were entered in a randomized pilot study to test the efficacy of intraluminal radiotherapy (ILRT) and concurrent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) infusion. The median age was 65 years, with 80% having middle third lesions; in 62%, the lesions were longer than 5 cm. After external beam therapy of 50 Gy in 5 weeks, patients were randomized to receive chemotherapy. Significant improvement in dysphagia was recorded in 76% patients with complete response in 47 cases ranging from 6 to 27 months. The overall survival at 2 years was 15% with ILRT alone versus 22% with ILRT plus 5-FU infusion. 
From tissue angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition to antihypertensive effect. The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) has long been regarded as a classical hormonal system, with angiotensin II (ANG II) being the circulating effector peptide. In recent years, evidence for additional RAS in various organs, including vascular wall, kidney, adrenal gland, heart, and brain, has been obtained. Drugs interfering with the RAS such as the converting enzyme (CE) inhibitors may, therefore, not only inhibit the plasma RAS but also inhibit these tissue RAS. Such a "tissue" RAS inhibition has been repeatedly demonstrated in animal experiments, and in some cases it correlated better with the cardiovascular actions of the CE inhibitors than did inhibition of plasma RAS. In the vascular wall, a local inhibition of ANG II synthesis may contribute not only to the reduction of vascular tone but also to the marked regression of media hypertrophy seen after CE inhibitor treatment. Vascular ANG II generation by CE appears to occur almost exclusively at the luminal surface of the endothelium. Locally formed ANG II may then contribute to the pool of circulating ANG II (endocrine ANG II) or feed back to adjacent cells without being transported by the blood (paracrine ANG II). Thus, CE inhibitors may not have to penetrate into deeper layers of the vascular wall to inhibit the vascular RAS, but may rather prevent the paracrine actions of locally generated ANG II. 
Effect of clean intermittent catheterisation on radiological appearance of the upper urinary tract in children with myelomeningocele. Of the 102 consecutive children with myelomeningocele who were treated by intermittent catheterisation between 1977 and 1985, 89 were investigated with regard to the development of the upper urinary tract. The median follow-up period was 6.7 years. Dilatation and vesicoureteric reflux were assessed by means of repeated urography and voiding cystourethrography. Of the 49 children with normal radiology at the start of catheterisation, all but 2 remained normal. In 27 with isolated dilatation of the upper urinary tract or reflux at the start, 17 subsequently became normal. Dilatation together with reflux was seen in 13 patients at the start; 3 became normal, 4 still had reflux and in 6 patients both dilatation and reflux persisted. Intermittent catheterisation thus had a positive effect on the upper urinary tract in the vast majority of cases. In children with both dilatation and reflux, however, there is a risk of deterioration and they should be followed up closely. 
Helicobacter pylori-negative duodenal ulcer. Most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer (DU) craters have gastritis associated with Helicobacter pylori (HP), now thought to be the major cause of DU. A smaller proportion of DU patients have no detectable HP. In this study, we examined the frequency and causes of HP-negative duodenal ulcers. In 302 consecutive patients with endoscopic diagnosis of duodenal ulcer, 284 (94%) were found to have associated HP gastritis, whereas 18 (6%) were HP-negative on histology, culture, and urease test. The largest subgroup of HP-negative patients (8/18) was made up of those who had been taking nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), followed closely (4/18) by patients with recent intake of antibiotics. Causes of DU in the remaining subgroups included two patients with duodenal Crohn's disease, two with Gastrospirillum hominis infection, one with penetrating carcinoma of the pancreas and one with no detectable cause. We conclude that, although the most common causal factor of duodenal ulcer is HP, some 6% of DU's will be HP-negative, signaling unusual etiology. It is now important to identify the cause of duodenal ulcer so as to initiate appropriate therapy. 
Epitope map of neurofilament protein domains in cortical and peripheral nervous system Lewy bodies. A subset of demented elderly patients exhibit large numbers of cortical intraneuronal inclusions similar to the neurofilament (NF)-rich Lewy bodies (LB) found in pigmented subcortical neurons of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Because these cortical inclusions may contribute to the emergence of cognitive impairments in afflicted individuals, the authors mapped the distribution of NF epitopes in these so-called cortical LBs. This was done using ethanol-fixed tissues and a large library of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) with well-characterized binding specificities to various regions of each NF triplet protein. Cortical LBs were examined by light, confocal, and electron microscopy, and they were compared with the subcortical LBs of PD and LBs in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Monoclonal antibodies specific for the rod regions of each of the three NF subunits, or for phosphate-dependent and independent antigenic sites in the tail region of the high- (NF-H) and middle- (NF-M) molecular weight (Mr) NF subunits as well as other MAbs to the extreme COOH terminus of NF-L and NF-M or the head region of NF-M labeled a variable number of cortical LBs. Remarkably one of these anti-NF MAbs, RMO32, which recognized a phosphorylated epitope in the tail region of NF-M, immunolabeled nearly all cortical LBs, whereas each of the other anti-NF MAbs never labeled more than 10% of ubiquitin- or RMO32-positive cortical LBs. Further LBs in the PNS resembled those in the central nervous system (CNS) in their immunologic properties, and LBs in both sites were dominated by filamentous aggregates at the ultrastructural level. These findings suggest that NF proteins are profoundly altered during their incorporation into cortical and PNS LBs. Further the authors here identified immunologic and ultrastructural properties common to cortical LBs, PNS LBs, and classic substantia nigra LBs in PD. The accumulation of filamentous, perikaryal inclusions rich in NF proteins at diverse sites in the CNS and PNS of patients with a variety of neurodegenerative disorders suggests a widespread disruption of NF metabolism or transport. 
Neurosarcoidosis--demonstration of meningeal disease by gadolinium enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. Arriving at a firm diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis continues to pose serious problems, particularly when evidence of granulomatous disease outside the nervous system is lacking. The commonest mode of presentation of neurosarcoidosis is with cranial nerve palsies. Two cases of presumed neurosarcoidosis with cranial nerve palsies showed clear evidence of focal meningeal disease on gadolinium-DTPA enhanced MRI brain scans. Although not specific for sarcoidosis, this technique may be very useful in aiding the diagnosis in suspected cases. 
Interrelationship between histopathologic characteristics of melanoma and estrogen receptor status. To evaluate whether the increase in disease-free survival and survival previously reported for women with melanomas with estrogen receptors (ER) was a reflection of the histopathology of the primary melanoma, the interrelationship of histopathologic characteristics of 143 patients with such tumors was examined. The ER was assayed in the primary tumor from 44 patients and in 99 metastatic deposits from the other patients. Tumor thickness, level of invasion, prognostic index, mitoses/mm2, ulceration, vascular invasion, necrosis, histologic grade, preexisting nevus, and predominant malignant cell type were examined. There was no relationship between ER presence and any histopathologic characteristic examined, irrespective of the tumor source (primary or metastatic). Examination of histopathologic characteristics as a function of sex and receptor status showed a slight but insignificant predominance of more well-differentiated, thinner tumors in women whose lesions were positive for the ER. These results suggest that the increased disease-free survival in patients with ER-positive lesions is not attributable to the pathologic characteristics of the primary tumor examined during this study. 
Benign positional vertigo: incidence and prognosis in a population-based study in Olmsted County, Minnesota. A retrospective review of our population-based medical records linkage system for residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, revealed 53 patients (34 women and 19 men; mean age, 51 years) with newly diagnosed benign positional vertigo in 1984. The age- and sex-adjusted incidence was 64 per 100,000 population per year (95% confidence interval, 46 to 81 per 100,000). The incidence of benign positional vertigo increased by 38% with each decade of life (95% confidence interval, 23 to 54%). One patient had an initial stroke during follow-up; thus, the relative risk for new stroke associated with benign positional vertigo was 1.62 (95% confidence interval, 0.04 to 8.98) in comparison with the expected occurrence based on incidence rates for an age- and sex-adjusted control population. The observed survival among the 53 Olmsted County residents with benign positional vertigo diagnosed in 1984 was not significantly different from that of an age- and sex-matched general population. Patients with benign positional vertigo seem to have a good prognosis. 
Update: drug therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Acute myocardial infarction is potentially a highly treatable disease. Immediate interventions are directed to decreasing tissue hypoxia with oxygen and improving bloodflow to ischemic myocardium using nitrates and thrombolytic agents. Cardiac workload should be reduced by eliminating endogenous catecholamine release with analgesia and sedation, and beta blockade in patients without CHF to decrease heart rate and myocardial oxygen demand. Treatment of the complications of AMI include dysrhythmia prophylaxis, monitoring and specific therapy. Treatment of pump failure includes using vasodilators, vasopressors and positive inotropic agents. Early recognition and timely initiation of appropriate therapy should be every physician's goal. 
Optic nerve sheath decompression for nonarteritic ischemic optic neuropathy improves multiple visual function measurements. Optic nerve sheath decompression was performed in seven patients with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Visual function was evaluated by measurement of visual acuity with standardized Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts, color vision testing, quantitation of relative afferent pupillary defects with neutral-density filters, and Goldmann and Humphrey perimetry. Visual acuity improved markedly in all patients (at least doubling of the visual angle); the peripheral visual field expanded by at least 20 degrees (as measured by Goldmann perimetry) in six patients. Three patients also experienced marked improvement in color vision, relative afferent pupillary defect, and foveal sensitivity. Our experience supports the possible beneficial effect of optic nerve sheath decompression in patients with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. 
On the mechanisms of ventricular tachycardia acceleration during programmed electrical stimulation. BACKGROUND. The pathophysiological mechanisms leading to acceleration of ventricular tachycardia (VT) are still unclear. METHODS AND RESULTS. High-resolution epicardial mapping was used to study the mechanisms of VT acceleration by programmed electrical stimulation (PES) in a model of sustained reentrant VT in Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts (n = 40). Three different mechanisms responsible for acceleration of VT were identified: 1) induction of double-wave reentry (n = 6), defined as the occurrence of two successive activation waves circulating in the same direction in the same circuit; 2) change to a functionally determined circuit (n = 4), defined as reentry of the impulse around a functional line of block without involvement of a fixed obstacle; and 3) change of the reentrant circuit to reentry within a different, faster anatomic pathway (n = 3). Analysis of 81 episodes of sustained monomorphic VT induced by PES in 74 patients with clinically documented sustained VT in the setting of chronic coronary artery disease showed that in 22 episodes VT was suddenly accelerated by PES (mean cycle length, from 345 +/- 73 to 277 +/- 71 msec, p less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. With the observations made in the experimental model, the following tentative classification of the mechanisms of VT acceleration of the 22 episodes was made: 1) induction of double-wave reentry in two, 2) change to a functionally determined circuit in four, and 3) change to reentry within a faster anatomic circuit in 16. Simple criteria suggest that these mechanisms may apply in the clinical situation. 
Oxygen transport measurements to evaluate tissue perfusion and titrate therapy: dobutamine and dopamine effects. BACKGROUND: Increased cardiac index, oxygen delivery (DO2), and oxygen consumption (VO2) patterns were shown to characterize the physiologic status of surviving high-risk surgical patients, and indicate increased metabolic needs; relatively normal DO2 and VO2 values were found to characterize the sequential pattern of nonsurvivors who developed an early oxygen debt followed by lethal organ failure. The cardiac index, DO2, and VO2 values empirically determined from survivors' patterns were shown to improve outcome in prospective randomized trials. The present study considers these criteria to evaluate the tissue perfusion status as well as the effects of therapy on tissue perfusion and oxygenation. OBJECTIVE: To summarize new information on the temporal patterns of DO2, VO2, and oxygen debt on outcome and the effects of fluids and inotropes on these patterns in a wide range of clinical, temporal, and physiologic conditions. DESIGN: Descriptive analysis based on data gathered prospectively using a specified protocol. PATIENTS: High-risk patients with accidental or elective surgical trauma, and patients with or without sepsis or septic shock and organ failure. SETTING: University-run county hospital with a large trauma service. INTERVENTIONS: Fluids, dobutamine, and dopamine at various times and at various doses throughout critical illness of postoperative, posttraumatic, septic, and hypovolemic patients with and without lethal and nonlethal organ failure. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The pattern of DO2 plotted against the corresponding VO2 values in 437 consecutive critically ill surgical patients showed a wide variability and poor correlation probably because complex clinical conditions may obscure the supply-dependent and supply-independent VO2 relationships observed in normal dogs bled or given bacterial infusions. However, the use of specific therapy by well-defined protocols was shown to provide objective evidence of efficacy. Significant increases in DO2 and VO2 were previously shown after whole blood, packed red cells, and colloid administration, but not after crystalloid administration. Dobutamine administration in 715 circumstances in postoperative, traumatic, septic patients and patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome, renal failure, and multiple organ failure significantly improved DO2 and VO2. Dopamine under comparable conditions produced less improvement in DO2 and VO2 than that of dobutamine; most of the VO2 changes were not significant. CONCLUSIONS: The monitored patterns of cardiac index, DO2, and VO2 may be used to evaluate the adequacy of tissue perfusion as well as the relative effectiveness of alternative therapies. Second, these physiologic criteria may be used to titrate therapy in order to achieve optimal outcome. Third, after colloids optimally expand the plasma volume, dobutamine may be used to enhance flow and the distribution of flow in order to improve tissue oxygenation. Vasodilators may be used when hypertensive episodes occur or there is an inadequate response to inotropic agents. Vasopressors are used as a last resort, usually in the terminal or preterminal state. 
New method for dealing with late-presenting spontaneous esophageal ruptures. A new technique is described for dealing with late-presenting spontaneous esophageal ruptures. This method requires only a short period of general anesthesia to drain the periesophageal abscess by a drainage tube inserted into the abscess cavity from the esophagus with the aid of a gastroscope and fluoroscopy. Gastric fluids are diverted from the esophageal rupture with a gastrostomy, and a jejunostomy is used for enteral feeding. The esophagus is retained, and closure of the fistula with resumption of normal swallowing is documented with serial sinograms. 
Nutrition: its relationship to orthopedic infections. The malnutrition of orthopedic surgical patients plays an important role in the development of complications, including infection. A high index of suspicion that malnutrition exists or will soon exist in patients who are subjected to significant stress, trauma, or surgery will lead the clinician to take measures to avoid further protein calorie deficits and replenish the patient's nutritional needs. There are many pathways in which malnutrition causes a propensity for infection, and these have been discussed. Meeting the patient's nutritional needs should avoid some of the complications of infections in orthopedic surgery. 
Tissue oxygenation in hemorrhagic shock measured as transcutaneous oxygen tension, subcutaneous oxygen tension, and gastrointestinal intramucosal pH in pigs BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Tissue oxygenation, measured in peripheral tissue as transcutaneous PO2 (PtCO2) and subcutaneous PO2, was compared with the oxygenation in GI mucosa, which was measured as intramucosal wall pH (pHi), during experimental hemorrhagic shock and resuscitation in pigs. The pigs were hemorrhaged stepwise to a BP of 80 and 45 mm Hg, followed by retransfusion. PtCO2 was measured in the groin and subcutaneous PO2 was measured in the hip region. Intraluminal PCO2 was measured in the stomach, in the small intestine, and the sigmoid colon using silicone catheters. A simultaneous determination of arterial blood HCO3 concentration allowed pHi to be calculated using Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. Cardiac output was determined by thermodilution, and oxygen delivery (DO2) was calculated. RESULTS: Early indications of shock were decreases in PtCO2 and intestinal pHi (p less than .01). All measured variables decreased at the second step of bleeding. PtCO2 and subcutaneous PO2 was correlated to DO2 through the entire experiment (r2 = .25 and .49, respectively). Also, the pHi of the small intestine and the sigmoid colon correlated with DO2 (r2 = .36 and .25, respectively). PtCO2 and subcutaneous PO2 correlated with pHi in the small intestine and sigmoid colon. CONCLUSIONS: PtCO2 and pHi in the small intestine and sigmoid colon were the variables that most rapidly indicated blood volume loss. Subcutaneous PO2 and PtCO2, and small intestine and sigmoid colon pHi were correlated to total body oxygen transport. Peripheral tissue perfusion followed intestinal perfusion to some extent. 
Mechanical cardiac valvular prostheses. Mechanical cardiac valvular prostheses currently enjoy a 60% to 40% market-share advantage over tissue prostheses in the United States and worldwide. Only the Starr-Edwards caged Silastic (Dow Corning) ball, Medtronic-Hall, St. Jude Medical, and Omniscience valves remain available in the United States. Although each valve has certain advantages and disadvantages, no design has achieved functional mechanical perfection. Late follow-up of valve-related complications from the literature favors the St. Jude Medical and Medtronic-Hall valves. 
Sudden death due to disease flare with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy for carcinoma of the prostate. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy for prostate cancer is a new method of management for metastatic disease. During the initial 1 to 2-week period of administration an increase in serum testosterone concentration can lead to an exacerbation of clinical symptoms (flare phenomenon). Two patients are summarized who received luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy without flare blockade and died suddenly during month 1 of therapy. A review of 765 patients in 9 series found 10.9% who suffered disease flare and 15 who died during disease flare. Of these 17 patients 12 were similar to our 2. These data suggest that any patient placed on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy for prostate cancer merits some form of flare blockade during the initial 1 or 2 months of therapy. 
A nurse-managed special care unit. The authors describe the first year of operation of a nurse-managed intensive care unit (ICU). Concerned with the problems, costs, and inadequacies of caring for long-term patients in traditional ICUs, nurse administrators designed a special care unit that incorporates a physical design facilitating family involvement and rehabilitative care, registered nurse case management, and a shared governance management philosophy. Compared with traditional ICUs, the effectiveness of the special care unit is tested in terms of patient and nurse outcomes. Implications of this innovation for health-care delivery systems and the nursing profession are discussed. 
Resting energy expenditure in chronic cardiac failure. 1. Resting energy expenditure has previously been shown to be elevated in the acute phase of heart failure, but the situation in the compensated state of chronic cardiac failure is unclear. Resting energy expenditure was assessed in 14 patients with stable chronic cardiac failure and 14 matched control subjects by using indirect calorimetry. 2. Resting energy expenditure was significantly elevated in the patients with chronic cardiac failure (112.6 +/- 18.1 versus 87.1 +/- 12.2 kJ day-1 kg-1 total body weight, P less than 0.0002; mean +/- SD) as were resting O2 consumption (3.88 +/- 0.64 versus 3.00 +/- 0.43 ml min-1 kg-1, P less than 0.0002), ventilation (164 +/- 40.3 versus 104 +/- 16.2 ml min-1 kg-1, P less than 0.0001) and heart rate (85.8 +/- 16.9 versus 66.6 +/- 6.9 beats/min, P less than 0.001). Both the resting plasma concentration of noradrenaline (4.48 +/- 1.52 versus 2.28 +/- 0.96 nmol/l, P less than 0.0001) and the serum concentration of free fatty acids (0.78 +/- 0.21 versus 0.57 +/- 0.27 mmol/l, P less than 0.03) were greater in the patients with chronic cardiac failure. Analysis of covariance indicated that most of the difference in resting energy expenditure could be accounted for by the elevated ventilation in the patients with chronic cardiac failure. Arm muscle area, an index of wasting, was lower in the patients with chronic cardiac failure (39.1 +/- 13.1 versus 50.5 +/- 9.4 cm2, P less than 0.02) and resting energy expenditure was found to account for some of this difference. 3. We conclude that an elevated basal metabolism occurs in chronic cardiac failure. 
Complication of a penile prosthesis reservoir: venous compression masquerading as a deep venous thrombosis. We report a case of vascular compromise secondary to the reservoir of an inflatable penile prosthesis. The problem masqueraded as deep venous thrombosis in the lower extremity of a patient 3 years after a spinal cord injury. 
Microangiopathy of the brain, retina, and ear: improvement without immunosuppressive therapy. We describe a pregnant young woman with branch retinal arteriolar occlusions, encephalopathy, and hearing loss in whom we demonstrated a patent foramen ovale. She improved while receiving anticoagulants and no immunosuppressive therapy. The microangiopathic syndrome of retinopathy, encephalopathy, and deafness may be due to a disturbance of coagulation and/or microembolism. 
Choledocholithiasis in acute gallstone pancreatitis. Incidence and clinical significance. A prospective study of choledocholithiasis was performed using 110 patients with presumptive diagnoses of acute gallstone pancreatitis. The incidence of migrating and persistent bile duct stones was determined using stool screening and intraoperative cholangiography, and the clinical significance of continued stone obstruction of the papilla was investigated using ultrasound assessment of migration time and a second evaluation of prognostic signs. Pancreatic inflammation was confirmed at surgery in 51 patients, of whom only 27 had stones in the stools (n = 22) or the bile duct (n = 5), suggesting that choledocholithiasis may not be the sole triggering factor of acute gallstone pancreatitis. Neither delayed migration nor persistent stone obstruction of the papilla promoted pancreatic inflammation. 
A temperature-dependent rabbit model for production of dermal lesions by Haemophilus ducreyi. The fact that optimal in vitro growth of Haemophilus ducreyi occurs at 33 degrees C prompted evaluation of the effect of temperature on the ability of this organism to produce skin lesions in rabbits after intradermal inoculation. Animals housed at a reduced ambient temperature (15-17 degrees C) consistently developed necrotic lesions when injected intradermally with 10(5) cfu of H. ducreyi; this inoculum did not produce necrotic lesions in animals housed at normal room temperature (23-25 degrees C). Lesion production in this new model was dependent on both viability of the H. ducreyi inoculum and replication of these organisms after intradermal injection. Histopathologic examination of the lesions revealed that H. ducreyi infection of the rabbit dermis evolves from an acute inflammatory reaction to abscess formation. Evaluation of three additional strains of H. ducreyi in this model confirmed that lesion formation was not bacterial strain-dependent. This new temperature-dependent rabbit model for productive H. ducreyi infection will facilitate investigation of the molecular pathogenesis of chancroid. 
Cutaneous type of adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma in a French West Indian woman. Clonal rearrangement of T-cell receptor beta and gamma genes and monoclonal integration of HTLV-I proviral DNA in the skin infiltrate. A 45-year-old woman, a native of the French West Indies who had lived in France since 1973, developed multiple cutaneous plaques and nodules in 1987. Histopathologic studies revealed dermal infiltration with mature activated T cells (CD4+, CD25+, DR+) with nuclear convolutions and epidermatotropisim. High titers of specific human T lymphotropic virus (HTLV)-I antibodies were detected in the serum. Molecular analysis of DNA extracted from the skin tumor biopsy specimen showed a clonal integration of an HTLV-I provirus and a T-cell clonal population as demonstrated by T-cell receptor beta and gamma gene rearrangement studies. Neither HTLV-I provirus nor T-cell receptor rearrangements were detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cells DNA despite the presence of rare adult T cell leukemia cells (less than 1%) and a small excess of DR-expressing cells, and detection of HTLV-I Pol and Px sequences by in vitro gene amplification. In this case only gene analysis of the skin lesions made possible an early diagnosis of a cutaneous adult T cell leukemia. This illustrates the need for such molecular studies to differentiate, in HTLV-I seropositive patients from endemic areas, a HTLV-I-induced T cell lymphoma from HTLV-I-nonrelated cutaneous T cell lymphomas. 
Luteinizing hormone (LH) secretory burst duration is independent from LH, prolactin, or gonadal steroid plasma levels in amenorrheic women. The possible presence of LH pulsatile secretion has been studied in patients with hypothalamic amenorrhea [LH plasma levels, less than 3 (n = 35) or greater than 3 IU/L (n = 18)], amenorrhea associated with hyperandrogenemia (n = 31), or hyperprolactinemia (n = 10). Patients were sampled every 10 min for 4 h, and LH plasma concentrations were determined by the use of an immunofluorimetric assay. The program Detect was used for both pulse detection and data deconvolution, i.e. for instantaneous secretory rate computation, on LH time series. The presence of episodic LH secretion was observed in all patients, and LH pulse frequency ranged between 3.5 +/- 0.3 and 3.8 +/- 0.2 peaks/4 h among the four groups. LH pulse amplitude was significantly reduced in patients affected by hypothalamic amenorrhea with LH plasma levels lower than 3 IU/L (0.7 +/- 0.1 IU/L; P less than 0.01) and significantly increased in patients with hyperandrogenic amenorrhea (6.8 +/- 0.3 IU/L; P less than 0.01) compared to levels in the other groups under study. Instantaneous secretory rate computation permitted the optimal resolution of the secretory events and demonstrated that the duration of gonadotrope secretory bursts ranged from 22.8 +/- 1.4 to 26.8 +/- 2.3 min in amenorrheic patients and did not depend on LH, PRL, or sex steroid plasma levels. In conclusion, the present study shows the presence of significant LH pulsatile release in amenorrheic patients, suggesting that in amenorrheic, as in normally cycling, women the secretory bursts from the gonadotropes have the same duration, despite the plasma LH, PRL, or steroid hormone levels. 
Carcinoid tumor of the common bile duct: evidence for its origin in metaplastic endocrine cells. Carcinoid tumors of the extrahepatic bile ducts are extremely rare neoplasms. The authors report the case of a 36-yr-old male patient with a carcinoid tumor that arose in the common hepatic bile duct. The non-neoplastic mucosa showed areas of gastric and intestinal metaplasia that included scattered argyrophil endocrine cells. Since the normal mucosa of the bile ducts lacks the latter type of cells, this case provides evidence for the first time that carcinoid tumors of this anatomic site probably originate from metaplastic endocrine cells. 
Occult pontine glioma in a patient with hemifacial spasm. Hemifacial spasm due to an intracranial mass lesion is rare. We describe a 29-year-old man with hemifacial spasm successfully treated with botulinum A toxin injections for 2 years. The development of acquired diplopia secondary to acquired sixth cranial nerve palsy prompted investigation. Computed tomography done at the time of original diagnosis and on three other occasions (concentrating on the brain stem and cerebellopontine angle) failed to demonstrate an intracranial mass lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large mass lesion in the pons presumed to be a glioma. Patients with hemifacial spasm who have atypical features, especially those with associated neurologic findings, should be screened for tumours. Our case illustrates the superiority of MRI in demonstrating pontine gliomas causing hemifacial spasm. 
Hyperinsulinaemia in thyrotoxic hypokalaemic periodic paralysis. To test the hypothesis that there is an abnormal serum insulin response to a carbohydrate load in thyrotoxic hypokalaemic periodic paralysis (THPP), 18 men with THPP and 15 with uncomplicated thyrotoxicosis were studied during an oral glucose tolerance test. The THPP group had significantly higher fasting insulin concentrations (27.6 [3.6] vs 13.4 [1.8] mU/l; p less than 0.005) and a higher overall insulin response to oral glucose (p less than 0.001 by ANOVA) than the thyrotoxicosis group. There were no significant differences in fasting or stimulated glucose. Hyperinsulinaemia may be an important factor in the precipitation of acute paralysis in THPP. 
Blunt trauma-induced pacemaker failure. A 54-year-old man with an artificial pacemaker sustained blunt trauma to his chest when he was struck with a baseball bat. Within 15 minutes after the injury, the patient experienced cardiovascular collapse. His pacemaker failed, and he required insertion of a temporary transvenous pacemaker. At surgery, the defect was traced to failure of the pulse generator, a rare cause of pacemaker failure. Emergency department evaluation should include prompt and continuous ECG monitoring, an overpenetrated chest radiograph, and telemetry evaluation after discharge. 
MR imaging in fibromatosis: results in 26 patients with pathologic correlation. Fibromatoses are a diverse group of soft-tissue lesions that have been inconsistently categorized and treated. The purpose of our study was to establish the range of appearances of fibromatoses on MR images and perform a pathologic correlation to explain the variable signal-intensity patterns. During a 3-year period, 26 patients with deep fibromatoses were examined with MR. The MR images were evaluated for signal-intensity characteristics, and findings were correlated retrospectively with the pathologic diagnoses. The results showed that the MR appearance of fibromatoses is similar to that of other soft-tissue lesions, and the signal intensities vary greatly from lesion to lesion and within lesions themselves. The fibromatoses were either hyperintense, isointense, hypointense, or of mixed signal intensity relative to adjacent skeletal muscle. The hypointense areas appear to be zones of hypocellularity and dense collagen deposition. Microscopically all of the lesions invaded adjacent structures, but the MR appearances of the margins varied and were judged to be well demarcated (n = 14), intermediate (n = 5), or poorly demarcated (n = 6). Our experience shows that fibromatoses have a variable MR appearance no different from that of other soft-tissue lesions, and this variability reflects the composition and cellularity of the lesions. 
GLI3 zinc-finger gene interrupted by translocations in Greig syndrome families. The Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) is an autosomal dominant disorder affecting limb and craniofacial development in humans. GCPS-affected individuals are characterized by postaxial polysyndactyly of hands, preaxial polysyndactyly of feet, macroephaly, a broad base of the nose with mild hypertelorism and a prominent forehead. The genetic locus has been pinpointed to chromosome 7p13 by three balanced translocations associated with GCPS in different families. This assignment is corroborated by the detection of two sporadic GCPS cases carrying overlapping deletions in 7p13 (ref. 7), as well as by tight linkage of GCPS to the epidermal growth factor receptor gene in 7p12-13 (ref. 8). Of the genes that map to this region, those encoding T cell receptor-gamma, interferon-beta 2, epidermal growth factor receptor, and Hox1.4, a potential candidate gene for GCPS, have been excluded from the region in which the deletions overlap. Here we show that two of the three translocations interup the GLI3 gene, a zinc-finger gene of the GLI-Kruppel family already localized to 7p13 (refs 5, 6). The breakpoints are within the first third of the coding sequence. In the third translocation, chromosome 7 is broken at about 10 kilobases downstream of the 3' end of GLI3. Our results indicate that mutations disturbing normal GLI3 expression may have a causative role in GCPS. 
Supraglottic carcinoma: impact of radiation therapy on outcome of patients with positive margins and extracapsular nodal disease. Seventy-nine patients with supraglottic carcinoma treated between 1966 and 1985 are reviewed. All patients were treated with surgery and postoperative radiation therapy. Thirty-five percent of the patients had positive margins at the site of resection of the primary tumor. Of the 25 patients who had positive nodal disease, 13 patients (52%) had either extracapsular extension or soft-tissue or adjacent organ invasion, referred to in composite as "grave signs." The median follow-up of the patients was 4.9 years and all patients were followed for a minimum of 3 years. The disease-free survival for all patients was 76% at 2 years and 71% at 3 years. The locoregional control rate for all patients was 70%. This study demonstrates that there is no difference in local recurrence or disease-free survival, or time to recurrence relative to the status of the surgical margins, which may be a benefit of the postoperative radiation therapy. This study also demonstrates that there is an increase in the number of patients with grave signs with increasing nodal stage. The rate of neck recurrence in patients with grave signs was substantially higher (54%) than in patients without grave signs (8%), even though these patients also had positive lymph nodes. Interestingly, there was also a higher rate of local recurrence among patients who had grave signs. Patients receiving doses higher than 6000 cGy to the primary site had fewer local failures, although within each group of patients with positive or negative surgical margins the differences in survival were minimal. 
Comparison of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group and American Joint Committee on Cancer staging systems among patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving hyperfractionated radiation therapy. A report of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group protocol 83-11. Since 1973, the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) has staged and stratified patients in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) protocols according to the RTOG staging system. In 1985, the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) revised its lung cancer staging system, with the principle differences from the RTOG system being the staging of involvement of the chest wall and of contralateral mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes. To determine if the AJCC system discriminated outcome differently than the RTOG system in a nonoperative series, all 850 evaluable patients treated with hyperfractionated radiation therapy (RT) on the RTOG protocol 83-11 were restaged by the AJCC system. There was 67% agreement in patient distribution between the following comparable stages in each system: RTOG Stage II/AJCC Stage II; RTOG Stage III/AJCC Stage IIIA; and RTOG Stage IV/AJCC Stage IIIB. Both systems successfully predicted for survival (P less than 0.001), although the RTOG staging was more discriminating (relative risk ratios, 1.59 versus 1.38). Among the 507 favorable patients (those with less than or equal to 5% weight loss and Karnofsky performance status [KPS] of 70 to 100), the RTOG staging was also more predictive (P = 0.004 versus P = 0.01). When RTOG Stage III (462 patients) was divided into those without contralateral mediastinal or hilar adenopathy (AJCC Stage II/IIIA) and those with (AJCC Stage IIIB), a significant survival (P = 0.0001) was noted with 2-year survival rates of 26% versus 4%, respectively. When AJCC Stage IIIA (348 patients) was divided into the patients without chest wall invasion (RTOG Stage II/III) and those with (RTOG Stage IV), a difference in 2-year survival of 22% versus 10% was observed (P = 0.002). Although both staging systems independently predict for survival, a fusion of both staging systems is the most discriminating of outcome. Future nonoperative studies in locally advanced NSCLC should stratify for contralateral nodal involvement (per AJCC staging) and chest wall invasion (per RTOG staging). 
Survival after resection of carcinoma of the splenic flexure. Nine hundred ten patients undergoing colectomy for colon cancer were studied retrospectively. Seventy-four cancers (8 percent) were located at the splenic flexure. The stage at presentation was no different between splenic flexure cancers and colon carcinomas at other sites. Although splenic flexure cancers had twice the incidence of obstruction as did other colon cancers and obstruction in the overall series adversely affected survival, there was no difference in survival between splenic flexure cancer patients and patients with other colon cancers. 
Cortical magnetic resonance imaging changes in elderly inpatients with major depression. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to determine if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of elderly depressed patients differ from MRI scans of age-matched control subjects and age-matched patients with Alzheimer's disease. METHOD: The authors studied 21 patients 60 years or older with major depression, 16 patients with Alzheimer's disease, and 14 age-matched control subjects. RESULTS: Compared to control subjects, depressed patients had greater cerebral sulcal and temporal sulcal atrophy; larger sylvian fissures, lateral ventricles, third ventricles, and temporal horns; and greater severity of subcortical white matter lesions. Depressed patients also had more basal ganglia lesions but similar levels of periventricular hyperintensity. There were no differences between depressed patients with and without delusions on any MRI measure. Depressed patients who received ECT had more temporal horn atrophy and greater subcortical abnormality summary scores than normal subjects. Cortical sulcal atrophy correlated with age at onset of depression. CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that elderly hospitalized depressed patients have greater cortical as well as subcortical atrophy and more basal ganglia lesions than age-matched normal control subjects. The correlation of these abnormalities with outcome remains unknown. 
Capsaicin-sensitive nerves mediate esophageal mucosal protection. The esophageal mucosa is exposed to damaging agents both by ingestion and reflux. Using our in vivo rabbit model of esophagitis, we have observed that acute luminal exposure (within 1 to 5 minutes) to potentially harmful agents, such as acid, bile, or ethanol, induces a rapid increase in mucosal blood flow; whereas prolonged exposure (10 to 60 minutes) results in mucosal injury and ablation of blood flow. We have also shown that capsaicin-sensitive mucosal afferent nerves can modulate esophageal blood flow. These findings led us to hypothesize that the reactive increase in blood flow induced by luminal agents represents a mechanism of protection mediated by capsaicin-sensitive nerves. The objective of these experiments was to determine if luminal capsaicin, a specific probe for visceral afferent nerves, could both preserve mucosal blood flow and protect against ethanol injury. Rabbits were subjected to luminal instillation of 50% ethanol with or without 1% capsaicin. Blood flow was measured with microspheres at baseline and after 2 and 10 minutes. Rabbits exposed only to ethanol developed severe mucosal injury coincident with near ablation of mucosal blood flow. In contrast, rabbits exposed to ethanol with capsaicin showed protection of the epithelium with a sixfold increase in mucosal blood flow. We conclude that capsaicin-sensitive nerves in the esophagus are local effectors of mucosal protection by virtue of preserving blood flow. 
Paraprosthetic leak: a complication of cardiac valve replacement. Paraprosthetic leak (PPL) is a rare but potentially serious complication of cardiac valve replacement. Between 1974 and 1988, 1175 prosthetic valves were implanted in 1026 patients by one cardiac surgeon at St. Thomas' Hospital, London. Of these 539 (52.5%) were aortic (AVR), 334 (32.6%) mitral (MVR), 7 (0.7%) tricuspid, and 144 (14%) AV and MV double valve replacements (DVR). There were only 2 triple valve replacements. The prosthetic valves implanted were the Starr-Edwards (7%), Bjork Shiley (11.8%), Lillehei-Kaster (23%), Carpentier-Edwards bioprosthesis (35.2%), Duromedics bileaflet (16.4%) and a variety of other mechanical and bioprosthetic valves (6.6%). Over the 15 year period there were a total of 82 (7%) valve failures of which PPL was diagnosed in 29 (2.5%) valves in 24 patients. Presenting features included cardiac decompensation in 72%, bacterial endocarditis in 12% and haemolytic anaemia in 12%. One patient (4%) had no symptoms. Nineteen patients underwent re-operation. Median time to re-operation was 15 months (range 1-65 months) with a re-operative mortality of 22%. Clinical evidence of prosthetic valve infection was found in 79% of MVR and 67% of AVR. A heavily calcified aortic annulus, found in 47% of patients, may also have contributed to PPL after AVR. 
Sun-related skin diseases. Severe photoaging of the skin, which may be caused by exposure to both natural and artificial ultraviolet light, ultimately results in actinic keratoses and cancer. Cancers are common on the head, neck, arms, and hands. Because of the potential for metastasis, squamous cell carcinomas generally require surgical excision and histologic examination. Although metastasis is rare with basal cell carcinoma, neglected lesions around the eyes, nose, or ears can invade bone, nerves, and cartilage and may cause death. Avoidance of sun, physical protection, and regular use of sunscreens are recommended. 
From Papanicolaou to Bethesda: the rationale for a new cervical cytologic classification. The Bethesda System for reporting cervical/vaginal diagnoses was introduced to replace the numerical Papanicolaou class designations, thereby facilitating precise communication between cytopathologist and clinician. The terminology for squamous epithelial lesions includes the following categories: 1) atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance; 2) squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL), which encompasses the spectrum of squamous cell carcinoma precursors, divided into low-grade SIL (human papillomavirus [HPV]-associated cellular changes, mild dysplasia, and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN] I) and high-grade SIL (moderate dysplasia, severe dysplasia, and carcinoma in situ and CIN II and III); and 3) squamous cell carcinoma. The rationale for including HPV-related changes (koilocytosis) with CIN I within low-grade SIL is based on the morphologic, behavioral, and virologic similarity of these two lesions, which precludes their separation in a consistent and reliable fashion. For the same reasons, CIN II and III lesions have been combined within the category of high-grade SIL. The term "atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance" is used for cytologic findings that do not fulfill the criteria for defined benign reactive changes or SIL. Therefore, this term is more restricted in usage as compared with the wide range of interpretations previously ascribed to "atypia" or "inflammatory atypia.". 
Influence of balloon size and stenosis morphology on immediate and delayed elastic recoil after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. After successful coronary angioplasty, the minimal luminal diameter of the dilated coronary artery segment is generally smaller than the diameter of the largest balloon catheter at the maximal inflation pressure. The determinants of this phenomenon were studied in 28 patients. Biplane angiograms were obtained after intracoronary administration of isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg) before, immediately and 24 h after coronary angioplasty. Balloon and coronary luminal diameters were measured by automated contour detection. Immediately after the procedure, the difference between inflated balloon diameter and minimal luminal diameter averaged 0.93 +/- 0.43 mm for the entire group and was greater both in eccentric stenoses (1.13 +/- 0.39 vs. 0.70 +/- 0.36 mm; p less than 0.01) and after angioplasty with an oversized balloon (1.20 +/- 0.37 vs. 0.71 +/- 0.33 mm; p less than 0.005). At 24 h, the balloon - minimal luminal diameter difference was unchanged at the group level (0.86 +/- 0.38 mm, but the minimal luminal diameter increased significantly in the subgroup of coronary segments dilated with an oversized balloon (1.97 +/- 0.37 vs. 1.81 +/- 0.28 mm; p less than 0.05). Thus, the difference between the minimal diameter of a dilated coronary segment immediately after a successful coronary balloon angioplasty procedure and the maximal diameter of the inflated balloon catheter is dependent both on eccentricity of the stenosis and on the balloon/artery diameter ratio. Moreover, the increase in minimal luminal diameter 24 h after angioplasty performed with an oversized balloon suggest that in addition to elastic recoil partly reversible factors related to vessel barotrauma are involved. 
Immunoreactive transforming growth factor alpha is commonly present in colorectal neoplasia. Surgical specimens from 19 patients with invasive colorectal cancers and 12 specimens of normal mucosa from the same patients were examined immunohistochemically for the production of the immunoreactive (IR-) transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha and IR-epidermal growth factor (EGF) with an anti-TGF-alpha monoclonal antibody (MAb) OAL-MTG01 and anti-EGF MAb KEM-10. Immunoreactive TGF-alpha was detected in 16 (84.2%) of 19 colorectal cancers. In contrast, there was no IR-TGF-alpha in the gland cells of normal mucosa. Immunoreactive EGF was detected in 7 (36.8%) of 19 colorectal cancers and 1 (8.3%) of 12 cases of normal mucosa. The production of both IR-TGF-alpha and IR-EGF in colorectal cancer did not differ by histologic type and Dukes' stage. Immunoreactive TGF-alpha was detected at significantly higher incidence than IR-EGF in colorectal cancer. These results indicate that IR-TGF-alpha should prove valuable as a possible tumor marker in colorectal cancers, and it may be very useful in understanding the biology of colorectal cancer. 
Comparison of chest pain, electrocardiographic changes and thallium-201 scintigraphy during varying exercise intensities in men with stable angina pectoris. This study was performed to evaluate the presence of angina pectoris, electrocardiographic changes and reversible thallium-201 defects resulting from 2 different levels of exercise in 19 patients with known coronary artery disease and evidence of exercise-induced ischemia. The exercise protocols consisted of a symptom-limited incremental exercise test (Bruce protocol) followed within 3 to 14 days by a submaximal, steady-state exercise test performed at 70% of the maximal heart rate achieved during the Bruce protocol. The presence and time of onset of angina and electrocardiographic changes (greater than or equal to 0.1 mV ST-segment depression) as well as oxygen uptake, exercise duration and pressure-rate product were recorded. Thallium-201 (2.5 to 3.0 mCi) was injected during the last minute of exercise during both protocols, and the images were analyzed using both computer-assisted quantitation and visual interpretations. Incremental exercise resulted in anginal symptoms in 84% of patients, and electrocardiographic changes and reversible thallium-201 defects in all patients. In contrast, submaximal exercise produced anginal symptoms in only 26% (p less than 0.01) and electrocardiographic changes in only 47% (p less than 0.05), but resulted in thallium-201 defects in 89% of patients (p = not significant). The locations of the thallium-201 defects, when present, were not different between the 2 exercise protocols. These findings confirm the sequence of the ischemic cascade using 2 levels of exercise and demonstrate that the cascade theory is applicable during varying ischemic intensities in the same patient. 
Hypoxaemia during anaesthesia--an observer study. We have investigated 296 inpatients in a single-blind observer study to determine the incidence, degree and duration of hypoxaemia during anaesthesia. The clinical recognition of hypoxaemia, period of time until recognition and risk factors were studied. Oxygen saturation (Spo2) was monitored continuously with a pulse oximeter (Ohmeda, model 3700). One or more episodes of mild hypoxaemia (Spo2 86-90%) were recorded in 53% of patients. Severe hypoxaemia with Spo2 values less than 81% were recorded in 20% of patients. The mild hypoxaemic episodes lasted up to 34.6 min (mean 2.3 min) and 70% were not detected by the anaesthetist. In the remaining 30% of episodes, the anaesthetist diagnosed the complication with a mean time delay of 70 s. After intervention a mean time delay of 57 s was recorded until Spo2 exceeded 90%. Utilizing a stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis, we found that risk factors associated with a greater incidence of hypoxaemia were patient age (P less than 0.005) and anaesthetic technique (P less than 0.00001). We conclude that hypoxaemic episodes in our operating rooms are common during anaesthesia and suggest preoxygenation in all patients in addition to administration of supplementary oxygen during arousal from anaesthesia and during transfer to the recovery room. 
Portal venous barium intravasation complicating barium enema examination. Venous intravasation of contrast is a potentially life-threatening complication of the barium enema examination. A patient in whom portal venous contrast intravasation was nearly fatal is presented, and the significant morbidity and mortality from this unusual event is reviewed. Since barium infiltration into the venous system almost always occurs in the setting of altered mucosal integrity, this examination should be used cautiously in patients with inflammatory bowel disease or diverticulitis. Prompt recognition and rapid resuscitation are critical to the survival of patients with contrast intravasation. 
Tricuspid atresia: association with persistent truncus arteriosus. Clinical, echo-Doppler, and pathologic data of a rare case of tricuspid atresia in association with truncus arteriosus are presented. There are only six patients (including the patient reported here) with this anomaly in whom detailed pathologic and/or clinical descriptions are available in the literature. An additional six cases were mentioned in the literature but without any details. A prevalence rate of 1.4% among tricuspid atresia cases is estimated. All infants presented with symptoms of cyanosis and/or congestive heart failure within a few days to 2 months after birth and died shortly thereafter. Cardiomegaly and increased pulmonary vascular markings on the chest x-ray film and left axis deviation with left ventricular hypertrophy on the ECG are usually present. Echocardiographic, catheterization, and angiocardiographic studies are helpful in documenting anatomic and physiologic features of this anomaly. Pathologically, the muscular type of tricuspid atresia, type I or II truncus arteriosus, a large subtruncal VSD, and a hypoplastic right ventricle are present. It is concluded that coexistence of tricuspid atresia and truncus arteriosus is rare; clinical, laboratory, and pathologic features are distinctive; the clinical presentation early in life with rapid demise is common; and prompt palliative surgery immediately after recognition of this anomaly should be undertaken. 
Association of exotoxin-producing group A streptococci and severe disease in children. Clinical features and microbiologic data on all cases of serious (hospitalized) Group A streptococcal infections in children managed at our institution between 1985 and 1988 are presented. All 6 cases were caused by toxin-producing strains. Four of 6 were toxin A-producing strains whereas none of 58 community-acquired (Group A streptococcal) pharyngeal isolates in the same period was a toxin A producer. A review of the literature on the incidence of toxin A-producing strains provides information suggesting a resurgence of such strains in the late 1980s after a relative disappearance of toxin B production in isolates from these patients was also significantly greater than in the isolates acquired from the community in uncomplicated pharyngitis. These findings suggest a role for exotoxin in severe manifestations of Group A streptococcal disease in children. 
Distribution of thymic tissue in the mediastinal adipose tissue. The distribution of thymic tissue in the anterior mediastinal, retrocarinal, and preaortic fat was examined histologically in 27 autopsy subjects. Thymic tissue was found in the anterior mediastinal fat in 12 subjects (44.4%), in the retrocarinal fat in two (7.4%), and in the preaortic fat in none. The finding of ectopic thymic tissue in these areas has not been reported previously, would appear to be surgically inaccessible via a median sternotomy, and may be responsible in part for some of the failures of thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. 
Identifying anterior segment crystals. A series of 22 patients with crystals in the anterior segment of the eye was examined by specular microscopy. Of 10 patients with hypermature cataract and hyperrefringent bodies in the anterior chamber cholesterol crystals were identified in four patients and in six of the 10 in whom aspirate was obtained cholesterol crystals were demonstrated in three, two of these having shown crystals on specular microscopy. In 10 patients with intracorneal crystalline deposits, cholesterol crystals were found on specular microscopy, including one case of Schnyder's crystalline corneal dystrophy. Of two patients with multiple myeloma, corneal crystals were demonstrated in one. Crystals of the anterior segment of the eye are most likely to be cholesterol, and identification is important for future treatment. 
Simple examination techniques to aid in the diagnosis of urethral diverticulum. Patients with urethral diverticula classically present with dyspareunia, dribbling of urine, chronic dysuria, and/or a tender suburethral mass. Physical examination, urethroscopy, positive pressure urethrography, and the urethral pressure profile may not confirm the suspected diagnosis. Three simple diagnostic maneuvers are presented to aid in confirming the diagnosis before surgical exploration. 
Symptomatic and silent gall stones in the community. The prevalence of gall stone disease in a stratified random sample of 1896 British adults (72.2% of those approached) was established using real time ultrasound. The prevalence rose with age, except in women of 40-49 years, so that at 60-69 years, 22.4% of women and 11.5% of men had gall stones or had undergone cholecystectomy. The cholecystectomy rate of people with gall stone disease was higher in women than in men (43.5% v 24%, p less than 0.05). Very few subjects with gall stones had convincing biliary symptoms. In women, 10.4% had symptoms according to a questionnaire definition of biliary pain and 6.3% according to conventional history taking, while no men at all admitted to biliary pain. Nevertheless, cholecystectomy in men had nearly always been preceded by convincing biliary symptoms. The age at cholecystectomy was, on average, nine years less than the age at detection of silent gall stones in both sexes. It is concluded that either gall stones are especially prone to cause symptoms in younger people or that there are two kinds of cholelithiasis - symptomatic and silent. The lack of symptomatic gall stones in cross sectional surveys is probably due to their rapid diagnosis and treatment. 
Genetic susceptibility to Parkinson's disease. Genetic factors clearly cause Lewy-body Parkinson's disease (PD) in a subset of autosomal-dominant families. However, most cases of PD are sporadic. The two most likely models of four discussed for sporadic PD are the reduced penetrance model and the multifactorial model. Sporadic PD is likely to be caused by the combined effect of environmental precipitating factors and genetic susceptibility factors. Because the number of major genetic factors is likely to be small, these hypotheses can be tested and genetic factors located using linkage mapping techniques. The affected pair analysis methods are especially suited to PD. Finding the genetic susceptibility factors for PD is important because this may be the fastest way to identify the environmental precipitating factors and because it may lead to prevention of PD. Because of the usefulness of identifying genetic susceptibility factors for PD, we are carrying out linkage studies in a group of 16 large autosomal-dominant families with PD and more than 300 living affected PD pairs. 
The rhombotin family of cysteine-rich LIM-domain oncogenes: distinct members are involved in T-cell translocations to human chromosomes 11p15 and 11p13. A chromosomal translocation in a T-cell leukemia involving the short arm of human chromosome 11 at band 11p15 disrupts the rhombotin gene. This gene encodes a protein with duplicated cysteine-rich regions called LIM domains, which show homology to zinc-binding proteins and to iron-sulfur centers of ferredoxins. Two homologues of the rhombotin gene have now been isolated. One of these, designated Rhom-2, is located on human chromosome 11 at band 11p13, where a cluster of T-cell leukemia-specific translocations occur; all translocation breakpoints at 11p13 are upstream of the Rhom-2 gene. Human and mouse Rhom-2 are highly conserved and, like rhombotin, encode two tandem cysteine-rich LIM domains. Rhom-2 mRNA is expressed in early mouse development in central nervous system, lung, kidney, liver, and spleen but only very low levels occur in thymus. The other gene, designated Rhom-3, is not on chromosome 11 but also retains homology to the LIM domain of rhombotin. Since the Rhom-2 gene is such a common site of chromosomal damage in T-cell tumors, the consistency of translocations near the rhombotin gene was further examined. A second translocation adjacent to rhombotin was found and at the same position as in the previous example. Therefore, chromosome bands 11p15 (rhombotin) and 11p13 (Rhom-2) are consistent sites of chromosome translocation in T-cell leukemia, with the 11p15 target more rarely involved. The results define the rhombotin gene family as a class of T-cell oncogenes with duplicated cysteine-rich LIM domains. 
Different mechanisms of polyuria and natriuresis associated with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. The mechanism of polyuria associated with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) was investigated in 8 patients. SVT was induced artificially and sustained for 60 minutes. Urine and blood samples were collected every 30 minutes. During the latter half of SVT, urine flow increased twofold in the control subjects before SVT. Urinary sodium excretion increased significantly (p less than 0.01) within 30 minutes after SVT. Urinary excretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) decreased (p less than 0.01) during the latter half of SVT and increased (p less than 0.01) after SVT, respectively. Plasma level of ADH did not change during SVT but increased (p less than 0.05) after SVT. The concentration of plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) increased significantly (p less than 0.05) before SVT ended. Urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2 increased significantly (p less than 0.05) after termination of SVT. The percent changes in the urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2 were correlated (r = 0.713, p less than 0.001) with those of ADH. There was also a correlation (r = 0.6, p less than 0.001) between the percent changes in the urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2 and those of sodium. Their findings suggest that the polyuria during SVT is attributed mainly to the inhibition of ADH release and that the natriuresis after SVT is due not only to the increased ANP but also to the increased renal prostaglandin E2 probably stimulated by ADH. 
Comparison of acute and chronic protein-energy malnutrition on host antitumor immune mechanisms. Protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) is prevalent in cancer patients. However, the effect of PCM on anti-tumor immunity is unclear and critically important in an era of improving results with adoptive immunotherapy. This study examined the effect of short- and long-term PCM on tumor-specific and natural immune effector mechanisms in a murine neuroblastoma (C1300 NRB) model. A/J mice received an isocaloric 2.5% or 24% casein diet for 3 or 8 weeks before inoculation with tumor. Three weeks later lymphocytes from tumor-bearing mice were harvested for determination of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) generation and natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. Both 3 and 8 weeks of PCM significantly reduced mean total body weight by 25% (p less than 0.001) and 41% (p less than 0.001), respectively, compared with regularly nourished mice. Short-term PCM did not inhibit CTL or NK cytotoxicity, whereas long-term PCM significantly diminished CTL generation (p less than 0.001) but preserved NK cytotoxic function. These results indicate that CTL development against autologous tumor, in contrast to basal NK function, is dependent on host nutritional status. Mean tumor growth, determined by tumor-weight to carcass-weight ratio, was unchanged for both short- and long-term protein-energy deprived groups compared with results in regularly nourished mice. These findings suggest that NK function is the predominant effector mechanism inhibiting C1300 NRB growth and that NK tumoricidal capacity is preserved during PCM. 
Pathophysiology of isolated systolic hypertension in elderly patients: Doppler echocardiographic insights. Systemic hemodynamics were evaluated with aortic pulsed wave Doppler echocardiography in 79 elderly subjects with isolated systolic hypertension participating in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) and were compared with the values in 39 normal age-matched subjects. Cardiac output was elevated (4.50 +/- 1.13 L/min versus 3.94 +/- 1.12 L/min, p less than 0.05) in patients with isolated systolic hypertension in comparison with values in normal elderly subjects. Systemic vascular resistance did not differ between both groups (2140 +/- 536 dyn.sec/cm-5 versus 2011 +/- 553 dyn.sec/cm-5, p = NS). The mean acceleration of blood during left ventricular ejection was similar in patients with isolated systolic hypertension in comparison with normals (12.6 +/- 5.6 m/sec2 versus 11.5 +/- 3.5 m/sec2, p = NS). Patients with isolated systolic hypertension had significantly decreased arterial compliance, as measured by the stroke volume-to-pulse pressure ratio (0.77 +/- 0.26 cm3/mm Hg versus 1.11 +/- 0.30 cm3/mm Hg, p less than 0.0001). The prevalence of aortic and mitral regurgitation as well as valvular and annular calcification did not differ between analyzed groups. Isolated systolic hypertension in elderly patients appears to be multifactorial, with reduced arterial compliance and increased cardiac output both playing a role. 
Reading problems in adult chronic headache sufferers. In a questionnaire survey we determined the prevalence of problems with reading, at present as well as in the past, in adult chronic headache sufferers as compared with age- and sex-matched controls. The reading problems inquired about were those with reading in general, reading quickly, prolonged reading and reading comprehension. The subjects were also asked about present and past problems with writing, concentrating, performing mathematics and overall learning. Significant differences in the prevalences of the problems studied between the headache sufferers and controls were observed on just two items and only for the female groups. These items were present problems with reading comprehension (39.3% versus 7.5%; p = 0.002) and concentrating (46.4% versus 17.5%; p = 0.015). We concluded that adult female headache sufferers have impaired reading comprehension and concentration abilities which do not seem to originate from the past. 
Paramyotonia congenita and hyperkalemic periodic paralysis map to the same sodium-channel gene locus. Paramyotonia congenita (PC), an autosomal dominant muscle disease, shares some clinical and electrophysiological similarities with another myotonic muscle disorder, hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (HYPP). However, clinical and electrophysiologic differences allow differentiation of the two disorders. The HYPP locus was recently shown to be linked to a skeletal muscle sodium-channel gene probe. We now report that PC maps to the same locus (LOD score 4.4, theta = 0 at assumed penetrance of .95). These linkage results, coupled with physiological data demonstrating abnormal sodium-channel function in patients with PC, implicate a sodium-channel gene as an important candidate for the site of mutation responsible for PC. Furthermore, this is strong evidence for the hypothesis that PC and HYPP are allelic disorders. 
Efficacy of low-molecular-weight heparin in the management of intermittent claudication. Treating chronic arterial occlusive disease with heparin is controversial because of the risks associated with long-term anticoagulant therapy. Low molecular weight (LMW) heparin (mw about 5000 Dalton), which selectively inhibits the Xa factor with minimal risk of hemorrhage, seems to offer new possibilities in the prevention and treatment of both venous and acute arterial thromboembolism. Therefore, 44 patients with intermittent claudication were recruited to a randomized, double-blind, controlled study. Twenty-two were treated for six months with a single daily subcutaneous dose (15,000 UaXa) of LMW heparin and 22 with placebo administered in the same way over the same period of time. After six months, LMW heparin treatment not only improved walking capacity (by lengthening the pain-free walking time by 25%) but also significantly modified the hemorrheologic pattern (by reducing fibrinogen concentrations and whole blood viscosity at low shear rates). LMW heparin also exerted an antithrombotic and profibrinolytic effect by significantly increasing both the anti-Xa factor and plasminogen activity without markedly modifying activated partial thromboplastin time (+20%). No LMW heparin-treated patient hemorrhaged or reported other noteworthy side effects. These results suggest LMW heparin might be a useful drug in the long-term treatment of chronic arterial occlusive disease of the limbs. 
Role of conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase to oxidase in ischemic rat liver cell injury. This study was undertaken to determine whether hepatic ischemia and the subsequent reflow of blood have any effect on the conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase to xanthine oxidase (XO). Ischemia of the liver for 90 or 120 minutes did not permit survival of the animals. XO represented 15% of the total xanthine dehydrogenase plus XO activity in the control liver. XO activity remained unchanged even after 90 minutes of hepatic ischemia, although a marked increase in lipid peroxide in the liver tissue was observed during the reperfusion. When hepatic ischemia was prolonged for 6 hours (animals were dead), XO activity rose to 35% of the total activity. Incubation of the liver at 37 degrees C resulted in a definite change in XO activity dependent on the length of incubation period. Although no significant changes occurred in XO activity during the first 2 hours of incubation, a marked XO conversion was observed between 2 and 4 hours, and a maximal conversion was achieved after 6 hours of incubation. These results suggest that XO newly generated during ischemia has a very limited role in oxygen free radical production after resuming perfusion. 
Increased therapeutic index of antineoplastic drugs in combination with intracellular histamine antagonists. L-Histidinol, a protein synthesis inhibitor and structural analogue of L-histidine, has been demonstrated in chemotherapy-treated mice to be cytoprotective to normal stem cells but to enhance cytotoxicity to tumor cells. N,N-Diethyl-2-[4-(phenylmethyl) phenoxy]ethanamine.HCl (DPPE) is an antagonist of recently described microsomal and nuclear intracellular histamine receptors implicated in the mediation of proliferation and modulation of prostaglandin synthesis. DPPE is cytotoxic to tumor cells in vitro and cytoprotective to the gut in vivo. Noting the similar pharmacologic profiles for histidinol and DPPE and the structural resemblance between histidinol and histamine, we tested 1) whether binding to intracellular histamine receptors may be important to the action of histidinol, 2) whether there exists a differential effect of DPPE and histidinol on proliferating normal and transformed or malignant cells, and 3) whether DPPE, like histidinol, protects host cells from the effects of chemotherapy while augmenting tumor cell kill in vivo. It was observed that histidinol does compete at intracellular histamine receptors in isolated microsomes and nuclei, but with significantly lower affinity than DPPE. Nevertheless, for each agent, potency at intracellular histamine receptors correlates with potency to inhibit DNA and protein synthesis, without cytotoxicity, in normal mitogen-stimulated murine lymphocytes and to kill transformed mouse lymphocytes or MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. As demonstrated previously for histidinol (1-2 g/kg), DPPE (4 mg/kg) protected murine bone marrow progenitors from doxorubicin or fluorouracil, while doses of 4-50 mg/kg significantly enhanced the antitumor activity of doxorubicin and daunorubicin in murine models of early cancer. One postulate to explain the effects of intracellular histamine receptor ligands is that intracellular histamine mediates DNA and protein synthesis, possibly through a downward modulation of growth-inhibitory prostaglandin levels. Antagonism of the intracellular action of histamine at intracellular histamine receptors by DPPE or histidinol may result in differential perturbations of growth/eicosanoid metabolism in normal and malignant cells, thus forming the basis of a new approach to chemotherapy. 
Alfentanil infusion for postoperative pain: a comparison of epidural and intravenous routes. The efficacy of intravenous (iv) and epidural infusions of alfentanil for postoperative pain relief was investigated in 24 patients (ASA physical status 1-2) who were scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy. The patients were allocated randomly to receive either epidural or iv alfentanil. In both groups, a loading dose of 15 micrograms.kg-1 was administered, followed by a constant rate infusion of 18 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 alfentanil for 20 h. Both routes provided similar degrees of analgesia; however, analgesia occurred earlier in the intravenously treated group (P less than 0.03). Mean plasma alfentanil concentrations (Cps) varied between 42 and 82 ng.ml-1 in the iv group and 23 and 68 ng.ml-1 in the epidural group, with higher concentrations in the iv group for the first 60 min only (P less than 0.01). Cps increased with infusion time, suggesting accumulation of alfentanil. After infusion ended, pain recurred at the same time in both groups, whereas the alfentanil Cps still were greater than 45 ng/ml. Postoperative epinephrine concentrations decreased after 60 min of infusion (P less than 0.02), whereas, after 6 h, cortisol levels decreased to preoperative values. Norepinephrine concentrations decreased only slightly. The only clinically meaningful effect on vital signs that occurred was an abrupt reduction of respiratory rate after the iv loading dose. PaCO2 increased to the same extent in both groups during the first 15 min only. The incidence of opioid-related side effects was similar in both groups. These results suggest that the iv and epidural routes were equally effective for providing postoperative pain control and controlling the postoperative response to surgical stress. 
Dendritic hypertrophy in Purkinje neurons of old Fischer 344 rats after long-term ethanol treatment. Metric parameters of Purkinje cell dendritic networks in 24- to 26-month-old Fischer 344 rats were determined after 48 weeks of chronic ethanol intake. Measurements included the total number and length of all segments/network, the total number and length of segments within topologically defined segment categories, and the mean length of segments in each category. A main effect of ethanol was expressed as a significant increase in cumulative length within one category of terminal segments. This increase was the result of a significant increase in mean length/segment in that category. Metric changes in other segment categories were not significant, showing that changes in the networks during ethanol treatment were not distributed randomly. Recovery after ethanol treatment was associated with further nonrandom remodeling of these networks. Significant differences in lengths of terminal segments were no longer present, but internal segments in networks of both pair-fed and ethanol-fed rats were significantly longer. Only one category of internal segments showed this change during recovery. The data showed that long term ethanol treatment in old rats, at a time when effects of aging processes were prominent in Purkinje cell networks, was associated with remodeling of those networks through dendritic extension. This effect was interpreted as compensatory growth in surviving networks following ethanol-related neuronal loss and/or damage to the surrounding neuropil. Recovery from dietary treatment produced further internal remodeling of those networks that was not related specifically to ethanol. It could be shown, however, that the restructuring processes that resulted in longer internal segments after dietary recovery were different in the pair-fed and the ethanolfed rats. 
Combination therapy of OK432 and recombinant human interferon alpha A/D on viral myocarditis in mice starting after infection. We investigated the effects of OK432, recombinant human interferon alpha A/D (rIFN alpha A/D) and a combination of these drugs on murine acute myocarditis due to encephalomyocarditis virus. Mice were administered 1 KE of OK432 and 10(4)U/g of rIFN alpha A/D starting 24 hr after viral inoculation for 14 days. The survival rate of mice having the combination therapy was significantly higher than that of untreated mice on day 21 (15 of 20 vs. 6 of 20, P less than .001), whereas the viral titer in the heart, the heart weight/body weight ratio and the scores for myocardial inflammation and necrosis were significantly lower. On the other hand, therapy with OK432 or rIFN alpha A/D individually improved neither the survival rate nor the extent of myocardial damage. The natural killer cell activity in the combination therapy mice on day 3 after infection was significantly increased in comparison with untreated mice (46.2 +/- 5.5 vs. 37.7 +/- 2.8%, P less than .01), and the cytotoxicity of peritoneal macrophages was increased (45.0 vs. 26.7%). Thus, the combination therapy of OK432 and rIFN alpha A/D was more effective than the therapy with OK432 alone or rIFN alpha A/D alone against acute viral myocarditis when the treatment was started early after infection, and the stimulation of host immunologic response by OK432 may be important for this combination therapy. 
Efficacy and safety of intravenous sotalol for termination of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. The Sotalol Versus Placebo Multicenter Study Group. A double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, multicenter study was conducted to study the efficacy and safety of a single intravenous dose of sotalol (1.5 mg/kg over 10 minutes) in achieving normal sinus rhythm in paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) lasting greater than or equal to 15 minutes. Patients were randomized to either sotalol or placebo as initial treatment, and if the SVT was not terminated a crossover was performed after 20 minutes. A total of 43 patients were enrolled, 38 of whom with spontaneous (n = 14) or induced (n = 24) SVT were analyzed for sotalol efficacy. Most patients (n = 27) had atrioventricular (AV) nodal reentrant tachycardia, and an important subgroup (n = 11) had circus movement tachycardia, using an accessory pathway for retrograde conduction. The number of patients converting to sinus rhythm as a result of the initial treatment was significantly higher in the sotalol group than in the placebo group, for spontaneous (p less than 0.005) as well as for induced tachycardia (p less than 0.001). Sinus rhythm was achieved within 30 minutes in 83% of all patients who received sotalol as the first drug, compared with 16% of the patients first receiving placebo (p less than 0.0001). For sotalol safety analysis, 42 patients were included. A total of 37 patients received sotalol, 19 as the first treatment, and 18 as the second treatment, while 25 patients received placebo. A total of 15 possible adverse effects were reported, occurring in 10 patients with sotalol versus 4 with placebo. The only severe side effect (hypotension) necessitating termination of drug administration occurred with placebo. No proarrhythmic effects were observed. 
Oriental cholangiohepatitis: pathologic, clinical, and radiologic features. Oriental cholangiohepatitis, an endemic disease in Southeast Asia, is characterized by recurrent attacks of abdominal pain, fever, and jaundice. Pathologically, the intra- and extrahepatic ducts are dilated and contain soft, pigmented stone and pus. There is proliferation of bile ducts and infiltration of inflammatory cells along the periportal spaces and hepatic parenchyma. Localized intrahepatic segmental ductal stenosis may be present, especially in the lateral segment of the left lobe or posterior segment of the right hepatic lobe. The cause of the disease is not known, but associations with clonorchiasis, ascariasis, and nutritional deficiency have been suggested. Sonographic and CT findings include intra- or extrahepatic duct stones, dilatation of the extrahepatic duct with relatively mild or no dilatation of the intrahepatic ducts, localized dilatation of the lobar or segmental bile ducts, increased periportal echogenicity, segmental hepatic atrophy, and gallstones. Cholangiographic findings include bile duct stones; disproportionately severe dilatation of the extrahepatic ducts with mild or no dilatation of the intrahepatic ducts; and focal strictures, acute peripheral tapering, straightening, rigidity, decreased arborization, and an increased branching angle of the intrahepatic bile ducts. 
Dose-dependent kinetics of orally administered 6-mercaptopurine in children with leukemia. To determine whether the pharmacokinetics of 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) would show dose dependency, we studied three different single oral doses in eight children (aged 3.6 to 15.1 years) with acute leukemia in remission. Marked interindividual differences in maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) were observed when children received the 50 mg/m2 dose. This variability decreased when the doses were increased. Six of the eight children showed a disproportionate increase in the AUC with increasing doses; the other two had a proportionate relationship between the AUC and dose. Overall mean (+/- SD) Cmax and AUC values increased disproportionately (88 +/- 123, to 326 +/- 194, to 653 +/- 344 ng/ml for Cmax, and 147 +/- 180, to 451 +/- 177, to 1291 +/- 415 ng/ml per hour for AUC, respectively) when the dose increased from 50 to 87.5 mg/m2 and then to 175 mg/m2. The results suggest that a saturable first-pass metabolism of oral 6-MP occurs with increasing oral doses in some, but not all, children. Whether and to what extent this pharmacokinetic character of oral 6-MP affects the interindividual difference in systemic exposure to the drug in children with leukemia receiving maintenance therapy require further studies. 
Nerve growth and expression of receptors for nerve growth factor in tumors of melanocyte origin. Nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates growth and differentiation of sensory and sympathetic neurons. It is not known what role NGF plays in melanoma development, but nevus and malignant melanoma cells express NGF-receptor (NGF-R). We counted nerve fibers within melanocytic nevi, primary cutaneous melanomas, and cutaneous melanoma metastases using a monoclonal antibody (MoAb) as marker against a 200-kD glycoprotein that is expressed on human nerves. The expression of NGF-R was studied in serial cryostat sections using a MoAb against the NGF-R. Compared to normal skin, increased numbers of nerve fibers were found in 72 melanocytic nevi. In congenital nevi their number significantly increased with age. In 47 primary cutaneous melanomas the number of nerve fibers decreased in proportion to tumor thickness. In 33 cutaneous melanoma metastases no accumulation of nerve fibers was found. NGF-R was not expressed in normal skin melanocytes and in the majority of nevus cells in melanocytic nevi. Considerable numbers of NGF-R-positive nervus cells were found only in some congenital nevi and few acquired nevi with dysplastic features. By contrast, in primary and metastatic melanomas higher expression of NGF-R was observed. The increased number of nerve fibers in melanocytic nevi suggests that neurite-promoting factors are produced in situ. Production of such factors appears to be lost in malignant melanoma cells. The finding of an inverse correlation between an abundance of nerve fibers in NGF-R-poor nevi and a high expression of NGF-R in melanomas that show no evidence of nerve growth suggest a role of NGF and its receptor in malignant melanocytic tumors. 
Effects of exercise on transmitral gradient and pulmonary artery pressure in patients with mitral stenosis or a prosthetic mitral valve: a Doppler echocardiographic study. Doppler echocardiography was used to determine changes in transmitral gradient and pulmonary artery pressure after exercise in 12 patients with mitral stenosis and 11 patients with a prosthetic mitral valve. The mean transmitral gradient in the mitral stenosis group was 9 +/- 7 mm Hg at rest and increased to 17 +/- 8 mm Hg after exercise. In patients with a prosthetic mitral valve, exercise resulted in an increase in mean transmitral gradient from 5 +/- 2 to 8 +/- 3 mm Hg. Calculated pulmonary artery systolic pressure increased with exercise from 41 +/- 19 to 70 +/- 32 mm Hg in the mitral stenosis group and from 28 +/- 8 to 39 +/- 15 mm Hg in patients with a prosthetic valve. Exercise Doppler echocardiographic evaluation of changes in transmitral gradient and pulmonary artery systolic pressure was found to be technically simple and an important addition to the noninvasive evaluation of patients with mitral valve disease. 
Multivariate analysis to simplify the differential diagnosis of broad complex tachycardia. Univariate analysis has identified several criteria that aid the differential diagnosis of broad complex tachycardia. In this study of 102 consecutive patients multivariate analysis was performed to identify which of 15 clinical and 11 electrocardiographic variables were independent predictors of ventricular tachycardia. These were shown to be a history of myocardial infarction, the QRS waveforms in leads aVF and V1, and a change in axis from sinus rhythm to tachycardia of more than 40 degrees. If none of the criteria was met, the diagnosis was almost certainly supraventricular tachycardia. If one criterion was met the diagnosis was probably supraventricular tachycardia. If two criteria were met then the diagnosis was probably ventricular tachycardia. If three or four criteria were met, the diagnosis was almost certainly ventricular tachycardia. The predictive accuracy was 93%. This was increased to 95% by including two other criteria--definite independent P wave activity and ventricular extrasystoles with the same QRS configuration as that in tachycardia. These criteria were not included in the multivariate analysis because though they were 100% specific they were seldom seen. These four criteria can be used as simple rules in determining the origin of a broad complex tachycardia. 
Expression of c-erbB-2 oncoprotein in gastric carcinoma. Immunoreactivity for c-erbB-2 protein is an independent indicator of poor short-term prognosis in patients with gastric carcinoma. Correlations of c-erbB-2 protein expression with clinical outcomes of gastric carcinomas were studied in 189 gastric carcinomas. There were 23 (12.2%) carcinomas with evidence of c-erbB-2 protein in which the reaction was localized to the cell membrane. There was no significant association between c-erbB-2 staining and the macroscopic or histologic type of the carcinomas. c-erbB-2-stained tumors were more likely to be associated with serosal invasion, nodal involvement, and peritoneal metastasis, than c-erbB-2-unstained ones. In addition, c-erbB-2 was stained in none of early gastric carcinomas. The 5-year survival rates of the c-erbB-2 protein-positive and the protein-negative group were 11% and 50%, respectively. When the c-erbB-2 tissue status and seven clinicopathologic variables as conventional prognostic factors were entered simultaneously into the Cox regression model, serosal invasion, hepatic metastasis, peritoneal metastasis, nodal status, and c-erbB-2 tissue status emerged as independent prognostic variables. The results suggested that c-erbB-2 protein expression might be enhanced in advanced stages during the progression of gastric carcinoma. In this particular group of patients, immunoreactivity for c-erbB-2 protein is an indicator of poor short-term prognosis. 
Quantitative angiography after directional coronary atherectomy. OBJECTIVE--To assess by quantitative analysis the immediate angiographic results of directional coronary atherectomy. To compare the effects of successful atherectomy with those of successful balloon dilatation in a series of patients with matched lesions. DESIGN--Case series. SETTING--Tertiary referral centre. PATIENTS--62 patients in whom directional coronary atherectomy was attempted between 7 September 1989 and 31 December 1990. INTERVENTIONS--Directional coronary atherectomy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Increase in minimal luminal diameter of coronary artery segment. RESULTS--Angiographic success on the basis of intention to treat was obtained in 54 patients (87%). In four patients the lesion could not be crossed by the atherectomy device; all four had an uneventful conventional balloon angioplasty. Four of the 58 patients who underwent atherectomy were subsequently referred for coronary bypass surgery because of failure or complications; three of them sustained a transmural infarction. In the successful cases, coronary atherectomy resulted in an increase in the minimal luminal diameter from 1.1 mm to 2.5 mm with a concomitant decrease of the diameter stenosis from 62% to 22%. In the subset of 37 patients in which the changes induced were compared with conventional balloon angioplasty atherectomy increased the minimal luminal diameter more than balloon angioplasty (1.6 v 0.8 mm; p less than 0.0001). Conventional histology showed media or adventitia in 26% of the atherectomy specimens. In hospital complications occurred in six patients who had undergone a successful procedure: two transmural infarctions, two subendocardial infarctions, one transient ischaemia attack, and one death due to delayed rupture of the atherectomised vessel. All patients were clinically evaluated at one and six months. One patient had persisting angina (New York Heart Association class II), one patient sustained a myocardial infarction, one patient underwent a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for early restenosis, and one patient underwent coronary bypass surgery because of a coronary aneurysm formation. At six months 80% (36/47) of the patients were symptom free. CONCLUSIONS--Coronary atherectomy achieved a better immediate angiographic result than balloon angioplasty; however, in view of the complication rate in this preliminary series, which may be related to a learning curve, a randomised study is needed to show whether this procedure is as safe as a conventional balloon angioplasty. 
Current chemotherapy of head and neck cancer. This article reviews the results of over 50 published trials testing the use of chemotherapy in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Among the trials using chemotherapy before standard surgery and/or radiotherapy in stage III and IV disease, none has shown an improvement in survival compared with surgery and/or radiotherapy alone. In these studies, the survival at 3 to 5 years has been generally 40% to 50%. Several trials using chemotherapy after standard therapy, however, have reported survival benefits of 10% to 20%, suggested that further evaluation of classic adjuvant chemotherapy in this disease is warranted. Among studies in recurrent head and neck cancer, the most effective chemotherapy regimens appear to be variations of the program consisting of cisplatin followed by a 5-day infusion of 5-fluorouracil. Nevertheless, median survivals in recurrent disease remain short, generally 5 to 10 months. 
Recurrent classic migraine attacks following transdermal scopolamine intoxication. A 20 year old male naval crew-member suffering from sea sickness was treated with transdermal scopolamine (TS). After 5 months of continuous treatment, he developed scopolamine intoxication followed by the appearance of recurrent classic migraine attacks. He had never suffered from headache or migraine prior to TS intoxication. The migraine attacks comprised a prodrome of apathy, bad mood and loss of appetite lasting several hours. An aura of scintillating spots, left arm numbness and paresthesias lasting several minutes was followed by a severe throbbing unilateral headache with photophobia, sonophobia and nausea. After one year of repeated follow-up examination, he continued to suffer from the attacks once every 10 to 14 days, with no identified precipitating factors. We are not aware of similar cases in the medical literature. Although it is not possible to establish TS intoxication as a causal effect of the appearance of classic migraine in our patient, the temporal association and clinical course are very supportive of this assumption. Central nervous system neurotransmitter imbalance of cardiovascular alterations may possibly be implicated. 
Effect of destruction of the vascular endothelium upon pressure/flow relations and endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in resistance beds of spontaneously hypertensive rats. 1. Pressure/flow relationships were determined in the in situ blood-perfused superior mesenteric and hindquarters vascular beds of spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats before and after destruction of the endothelium with detergent. The effects of indomethacin on the regression of pressure on flow were also investigated in the spontaneously hypertensive rats, as were the endothelium-dependent relaxations in response to carbachol in the mesenteric bed. 2. In the spontaneously hypertensive rats the regression line of pressure on flow in the two vascular beds was both steeper and more elevated than in the Wistar-Kyoto rats, showing that there was greater resistance to flow in the hypertensive animals. Destruction of the endothelium significantly increased the slope of the regression in both Wistar-Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats: the increases in the Wistar-Kyoto rats were 2.4 +/- 0.3 fold (mesenteric) and 2.0 +/- 0.5 fold (hindquarters) which were comparable with the respective increases of 1.6 +/- 0.3 fold and 1.8 +/- 0.3 fold in the spontaneously hypertensive rats. 3. Indomethacin (5 mg/kg, intravenously) had no effect on the pressure/flow relations in either of the vascular beds of the spontaneously hypertensive rats. 4. The dose-response curves for the endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in response to carbachol were not significantly different in spontaneously hypertensive and Wistar-Kyoto rats. 5. The results suggest that tonic release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor has similar effects in modulating resistance vessel tone in vivo in both hypertensive and normotensive rats. 
Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome. The association of congenital ablepharon with the absence of eyelashes and eyebrows, a wide mouth (macrostomia), and auricular, nasal, genital, and other systemic anomalies has been termed the ablepharon macrostomia syndrome. One such case is reported which illustrates the importance of immediate postnatal ocular management to minimise severe visual loss. 
Drug treatment of hypertension in patients with diabetes mellitus. Patients with diabetes mellitus have an increased prevalence of hypertension and its vascular consequences, including coronary and cerebrovascular disease. Drug treatment of hypertension in diabetic subjects is fraught with potential difficulties, including the altered efficacy of medications, the increased risk of side effects, and the possibility of worsening glycemic control and increasing serum lipid levels. Despite these difficulties, treatment is an important part of reducing morbidity and mortality from vascular events. Antihypertensive therapy may also have the potential to prevent or retard the development of diabetic nephropathy. In this article, we discuss the efficacy and metabolic and nonmetabolic side effects of the various classes of antihypertensive agents in patients with diabetes mellitus and suggest a stepped-care approach to the drug treatment of patients with hypertension and diabetes. 
Effect of radiation on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen of human gastric adenocarcinoma cells. The changes of antigenic expression of cultured human gastric adenocarcinoma MKN45 cells caused by irradiation were investigated to elucidate the immune responses to localized irradiation. The expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) showed remarkable increases in the culture supernatant and on the surface of the membrane of irradiated cells. The expression of major histocompatibility complex Class I antigen on the membrane also was enhanced by irradiation. In addition, the irradiated cell groups, when analyzed using a CEA-specific probe, showed remarkable increases in the CEA mRNA. These enhancements increased in the 10-Gy and 15-Gy irradiated populations compared with the 5-Gy irradiated population. These results suggest that the enhancement of expression of CEA by radiation takes place at the CEA gene expression (mRNA) level but not at the protein level. 
Jejunal permeability to water and electrolytes in patients with chronic intrahepatic hypertension: evidence for a role of aldosterone. Acute prehepatic portal hypertension induces intestinal secretion in animal models. In the course of chronic liver disease, however, these changes are not observed, despite higher portal pressures than those found in experimental studies. Eight patients without diarrhoea and with chronic alcoholic liver disease were examined for evidence of increased jejunal secretion; their suprahepatic wedge pressure was raised from 21 to 45 mmHg (mean 34.6 mmHg). Jejunal perfusion with a triple lumen catheter and a proximal occluding balloon was used to study net flows of water and chloride as well as net and unidirectional flows of sodium and potassium. No statistical difference in intestinal flows of water and electrolytes was noted between cirrhotic patients and control subjects after infusion with a 30 mmol/l glucose solution. Infusion with a 30 mmol/l mannitol solution resulted in a lower absorption of water, Na, K, and Cl than with the glucose solution. A higher rate of Na secretion was observed in cirrhotic patients than control subjects after infusion with 30 mmol/l mannitol (p less than 0.01). In addition, the rate of Na secretion was higher in cirrhotic patients than in control subjects (p less than 0.05). There was no correlation between the net flow of Na and the suprahepatic wedge pressure. A second perfusion with a 30 mmol/l glucose solution was given 75 minutes after a bolus injection of spironolactone (400 mg). Net flows of Na and Cl were lower in cirrhotic patients than in control subjects (p less than 0.05) because of a lower absorption of Na. Patients with gradually developing portal hypertension have moderate jejunal secretions of H2O and electrolytes which we assume are partly masked by increased absorption resulting from hyperaldosteronism. In contrast to animal models, this mechanism may be part of the jejunal adaptation to permeability in acute portal hypertension. 
Clinical significance of the large adrenal mass. Current clinical teaching indicates that large (greater than 5 cm in diameter) adrenal masses are often malignant. In a retrospective analysis of patients studied between 1977 and 1988 with computed tomography (CT), adrenal scintigraphy, and when available, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 45 were found to have adrenal masses greater than 5 cm (range 5-19 cm) in diameter. Thirty were benign (16 phaeochromocytomas, six adrenocortical adenomas, four adrenal cysts, two myelolipomas, an adrenal hematoma and a ganglioneuroma). Of 15 malignant masses, there were seven adrenocortical carcinomas, five adrenal metastases and three adrenal lymphomas. With the exception of the adrenal myelolipomas, cysts, and the ganglioneuroma neither CT nor MRI demonstrated sufficient diagnostic specificity to distinguish benign from malignant lesions. Functional scintigraphy with 131I-6-beta-iodomethyl-19-norcholesterol for suspected adrenocortical lesions and 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine for suspected phaeochromocytomas frequently provided useful information. 
Nd:YAG laser hyperthermia treatment of rat mammary adenocarcinoma in conjunction with surface cooling. Electromagnetic radiation ranging from radiofrequency to microwave has classically been used to induce hyperthermia for treatment of cancer. This paper presents a new technique using near infrared radiation from an Nd:YAG laser in conjunction with surface cooling to induce hyperthermia in a rat tumor model. A CW Nd:YAG laser hyperthermia system was used to induce hyperthermic temperatures in chemically (DMBA) induced rat mammary adenocarcinomas. The laser was interfaced to a computer and a thermometry unit that provided feedback to control the tumor temperature between 43.2-43.5 degrees C. A thermocouple was placed at the base of the tumor and its temperature was used to control laser exposure. All tumors were 10 to 20 mm in diameter. Surface cooling methods investigated included forced air flow from a fan, forced oxygen flow plus an IV drip, and forced moist oxygen flow from a nebulizer. Twelve rat mammary adenocarcinomas have been treated with Nd:YAG laser hyperthermia. In 4 treatments, no surface cooling was employed. In one treatment the surface was cooled using oxygen flow plus IV drip. In 7 treatments the skin was cooled using the nebulizer technique. The nebulization provided the most effective and reproducible surface cooling. Nd:YAG laser hyperthermia delivered in conjunction with nebulizer surface cooling produced efficient heating of rat mammary adenocarcinomas. A mean temperature of 42.1 degrees C was obtained at the base of the tumors while the mean surface temperature was 37.0 degrees C. 
Estimates of radiation absorbed dose for intraperitoneally administered iodine-131 radiolabeled B72.3 monoclonal antibody in patients with peritoneal carcinomatoses. Using a newly available model for determining estimates of radiation absorbed dose of radioisotopes administered intraperitoneally, we have calculated absorbed dose to tumor and normal tissues based on a surgically controlled study of radiolabeled antibody distribution. Ten patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis received intraperitoneal injections of the murine monoclonal antibody B72.3 radiolabeled with 131I. Biodistribution studies were performed using nuclear medicine methods until laparotomy at 4-14 days after injection. Surgical biopsies of normal tissues and tumor were obtained. The marrow was predicted to be the critical organ, with maximum tolerated dose [200 rad (2 Gy) to marrow] expected at about 200 mCi (7.4 GBq). In patients with large intraperitoneal tumor deposits, the tumor itself is an important source tissue for radiation exposure to normal tissues. Local "hot-spots" for tumor-absorbed dose were observed, with maximum tumor-absorbed dose calculated at 11,000 rad (11 Gy) per 100 mCi (3.7 GBq) administered intraperitoneal; however, tumor rad dose varied considerably. This may pose serious problems for curative therapy, especially in patients with large tumor burdens. 
The clinical course of perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage We studied the early clinical course of 65 patients with perimesencephalic (nonaneurysmal) subarachnoid hemorrhage. None of the patients rebled; none had delayed cerebral ischemia; and only 3 patients (5%) developed clinical signs of acute hydrocephalus, 2 requiring ventricular shunting. Hyponatremia and electrocardiographic changes were found in the same proportions as in patients with aneurysmal rupture. All patients had a good outcome after 3 months. To control for the influence of the relatively small amount of cisternal blood in perimesencephalic hemorrhage on the absence of delayed cerebral ischemia, we compared these 65 patients with 49 patients who had aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. This control group with aneurysms was selected according to a similar amount of cisternal blood, a comparable level of consciousness on admission, and absence of other factors known to increase the risk for delayed cerebral ischemia. We found that 4 of the 49 patients with aneurysmal hemorrhage developed delayed cerebral ischemia (Fisher's exact test, p = 0.03); therefore the relatively small amount of blood does not account for the absence of delayed cerebral ischemia in perimesencephalic hemorrhage. Patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage and a normal angiogram should be considered to have a distinct subset of subarachnoid hemorrhage and should be excluded from future treatment trials of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
The hyperekplexias and their relationship to the normal startle reflex. The startle response to unexpected auditory and somaesthetic stimulation was studied in 8 patients with hereditary or symptomatic hyperekplexia. It was abnormal in its resistance to habituation and in its exaggerated motor response. Both noise and taps to the face and head elicited a normal early blink response, separate from the subsequent true startle reflex. The earliest reflex EMG activity recorded after the blink was in sternocleidomastoid. EMG activity in masseter, and trunk and limb muscles followed later. This pattern of muscle recruitment suggests a brainstem origin for the abnormal startle responses. In addition, the abnormal startle responses exhibited disproportionately long latencies to the intrinsic hand and foot muscles and relatively slow recruitment of caudal muscles. The pattern of muscle recruitment was similar between patients, irrespective of the absolute latency of the response, and regardless of whether stimulation was auditory or somaesthetic. This suggests that auditory and somaesthetic afferents converge on a common brainstem efferent system, and that this system forms the final common pathway for abnormal startle responses of differing latency. The characteristics of this efferent system differ from those previously described in brainstem reticular reflex myoclonus, but are similar to those described in the normal auditory startle reflex in man. This suggests that the abnormal startle response in hyperekplexia, and the normal startle reflex represent pathological and physiological activity in the same brainstem efferent system. 
Granulocyte function in coronary artery disease. Granulocytes defend the body against invading microbes by producing a complex armamentarium of toxic substances, such as proteolytic enzymes, oxygen radicals and arachidonic acid metabolites. Under certain circumstances, however, such compounds may be released in the absence of phagocytosable particles, resulting in injury to normal cell and connective tissue degradation. Recent experimental studies have emphasized the potential role of granulocytes in the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia. Clinical investigations have also shown alterations in neutrophil function in stable and unstable clinical manifestations of ischemic heart disease. "Priming" of granulocytes in stable forms of coronary disease may predispose to the subsequent development of acute coronary events, whereas activation of neutrophils may lead to alterations in vascular permeability and coronary flow regulation, leading to further myocardial and endothelial injury in acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina and coronary angioplasty. 
Severe lactic acidosis related to acute thiamine deficiency. The authors report a case of severe lactic acidosis in a 3-year-old boy, after 20 days of total parenteral nutrition without vitamin supplementation. This child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia underwent a period of severe refractory lactic acidosis (pH between 6.81 and 7.00 and a serum lactate level up to 38 mmol/liter) leading to cardiac arrest. After the initial resuscitation and the subsequent treatment of shock and vitamin K deficiency, acute peritoneal dialysis was instituted to correct the severe lactic acidosis. Initial low plasma thiamine levels confirmed the diagnosis of thiamine deficiency. An associated transient pancreatic dysfunction was also noted. The patient's overall course with thiamine replacement therapy led to a complete recovery within 5 days and no sequelae were noted after 12 months. 
Assessment of aortic regurgitation by the acceleration flow signal void proximal to the leaking orifice in cinemagnetic resonance imaging. BACKGROUND. The proximal acceleration flow region is a laminar flow field that is located immediately upstream from the leaking orifice. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether cinemagnetic resonance imaging can provide information regarding the proximal acceleration flow region in patients with aortic regurgitation and to analyze the relation between the area of the proximal acceleration flow delineated by cinemagnetic resonance imaging and the severity of aortic regurgitation delineated by angiography. METHODS AND RESULTS. Thirty-eight consecutive patients who underwent aortography were examined by cinemagnetic resonance imaging. The region of proximal flow acceleration was identified as a semicircular-shaped signal void in the aorta during diastole. Cinemagnetic resonance imaging detected the proximal acceleration flow region in 26 of the 30 patients who were proved to have this lesion (sensitivity, 87%). In eight patients without aortic regurgitation according to aortography, no proximal acceleration flow region was detected (specificity, 100%). The area of the acceleration flow signal void from the long-axis view was well correlated with angiographic degree of aortic regurgitation. CONCLUSIONS. Cinemagnetic resonance imaging is useful in detecting the proximal acceleration flow region and permits noninvasive assessment of the severity of aortic regurgitation. 
Neutrophil activation is confined to the maternal circulation in pregnancy-induced hypertension. The aim of this study was to determine whether neutrophil activation occurs in the fetal circulation in pregnancy-induced hypertension and to correlate this with evidence of neutrophil activation in the maternal circulation. Twenty-one normal pregnancies and 23 complicated by pregnancy-induced hypertension were studied in the third trimester. The mean length of gestation at delivery was significantly shorter (P less than .01) and the mean birth weight percentile was significantly lower (P less than .05) in the hypertensive group; otherwise the groups were comparable. Blood was obtained before cesarean delivery or established labor in the mothers and immediately after delivery from the umbilical vein. Plasma neutrophil elastase, which is released after neutrophil activation, was measured by radioimmunoassay as a marker for neutrophil activation. The mean (+/- standard error) concentration of neutrophil elastase in maternal plasma in the hypertensive group (35.9 +/- 4.7 ng/mL) was significantly higher than in the normal group (20.8 +/- 0.87 ng/mL) (P less than .005). The concentration of neutrophil elastase in umbilical venous plasma was not significantly different between the normal and hypertensive groups. However, significantly higher concentrations of neutrophil elastase were found in the umbilical venous plasma of pregnancies delivered vaginally compared with those delivered by cesarean (P less than .05) regardless of diagnosis. There was no correlation between maternal venous and umbilical venous plasma neutrophil elastase concentrations, birth weight percentile, plasma urate, or platelet count. These data suggest that neutrophil activation is confined to the maternal circulation in pregnancy-induced hypertension where it may contribute to vascular damage and dysfunction in areas such as the placental bed. 
The anterior inferior cerebellar artery in the internal auditory canal. It has been proposed that compression of the auditory and vestibular nerve trunks by vascular loops might be the cause of otherwise unexplained hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo, as well as Meniere's disease. We studied the human temporal bone histological collection at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary to determine whether audiovestibular symptoms could be correlated with the presence of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery within the internal auditory canal. Anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops were found within the internal auditory canals of 12.3% of 1327 temporal bones, about half the number found when preparations with intact brains are studied. This difference can be attributed to avulsion of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery during removal of the brain at autopsy. There were 5 cases of unexplained unilateral hearing loss with anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops: 3 in the opposite ear and 2 in both ears. There were 2 cases with unilateral unexplained tinnitus with anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops: 1 in the involved ear and 1 in the opposite ear. A case with bilateral tinnitus had an anterior inferior cerebellar artery loop in 1 ear. There were 29 cases of vertigo with no peripheral histopathological correlate or central nervous system disorder; anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops were found in the internal auditory canals of 7 (12.5%) of the 56 ears in this group, which is not significantly different from the 12.3% incidence recorded for the entire collection. In 23 cases of unilateral Meniere's disease, there were anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops in the hydropic ears in 3, the opposite ear in 1, and both ears in 1. We can find no correlation between unexplained hearing loss, tinnitus, vertigo, or Meniere's disease and the presence of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery in the internal auditory canal. 
Identification and characterization of a low-affinity granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor on primary and cultured human melanoma cells. Hematopoietic growth factor receptors are present on cells of normal nonhematopoietic tissues such as endothelium and placenta. We previously demonstrated functional human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) receptors on small cell carcinoma of the lung cell lines, and others have reported that certain solid tumor cell lines respond to GM-CSF in clonogenic assays. In the current study, we examine human melanoma cell lines and fresh specimens of melanoma to determine whether they have functional GM-CSF receptors. Scatchard analyses of 125I-GM-CSF equilibrium binding to melanoma cell lines showed a mean of 542 +/- 67 sites per cell with a kd of 0.72 +/- 0.14 nmol/L. Cross-linking studies in the melanoma cell line, M14, showed a major GM-CSF receptor species of 84,000 daltons. Under the conditions tested, the M14 cells did not have a proliferative response to GM-CSF in vitro, nor was any induction of primary response genes detected by Northern analysis in response to GM-CSF. Studies to determine internal translocation of the receptor-ligand complex indicated less than 10% of the 125I-GM-CSF internalized was specifically bound to receptors. Primary melanoma cells from five surgical specimens had GM-CSF receptors; Scatchard analysis was performed on one sample, showing 555 sites/cell with a kd of 0.23 nmol/L. These results indicate that human tumor cells may express a low-affinity GM-CSF receptor protein that localizes to the cell surface and binds ligand, but lacks functional components or accessory factors needed to transduce a signal. 
Primary anterior mediastinal B-cell lymphoma. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 16 cases. Sixteen cases of primary anterior mediastinal B-cell lymphoma were characterized by morphologic, immunophenotypic, and clinical profiles. Twelve were men and four were women. The median age was 42 years. Virtually all tumors were of large cell type. Three main morphologic categories were identified, with one rare exception. In some tumors, the cells were compatible with centrocytes and centroblasts (four). Others had cells readily identifiable as centroblasts (six). Both these groups had a variable proportion of cells with multilobed nuclei. A third group was composed mainly of unclassifiable cells with multilobed nuclei (five). All had discernible sclerosis of varying intensity. A wider range of morphologic features and different sex distribution was noticed in comparison with previously reported clear cell features and younger women. The dominant phenotype of these B-cell lymphomas was CD19+, CD22+, CD37+, CD21-, CD30-, CD10-, CD5-, and Ig-negative. The finding of CD21-, Ig-negative phenotype, as observed by the authors and others, overlaps with some high-grade lymphomas of follicular center cell origin but is thought to bear similarity to a noncirculating population of thymic medullary B-cells. The tumors attained large size without peripheral dissemination and responded to chemotherapy as well as radiotherapy. 
Scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach versus hypertrophic gastritis: findings at endoscopic US. To differentiate scirrhous carcinoma from hypertrophic gastritis, 16 patients with scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach and seven patients with hypertrophic gastritis were examined with endoscopic ultrasonography (US) between August 1987 and October 1990. US images of the normal gastric walls of 16 patients with gastric ulcers served as controls. Characteristic features of scirrhous carcinoma included an irregular hypoechoic enlargement of the third (submucosa) and fourth (muscularis propria) layers. The mean thickness of the third and fourth layers was increased sixfold and threefold, respectively, compared with thickness in healthy subjects. In the patients with scirrhous carcinoma, the mucosal layer remained normal in appearance at US, and it was possible to distinguish the five-layer structure of the gastric wall. These findings were prospectively correlated with histopathologic findings in the resected specimens. In contrast, only the mucosal layer was thickened in cases of hypertrophic gastritis. Recognition of these patterns at US can aid in the differential diagnosis of scirrhous carcinoma and such benign diseases as hypertrophic gastritis with a thickened gastric wall. 
Enhanced detection of intracardiac sources of cerebral emboli by transesophageal echocardiography. We performed transesophageal echocardiography in 50 consecutive hospitalized patients with recent transient ischemic attack or stroke of embolic origin to determine whether transesophageal echocardiography is more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography in detection of possible intracardiac sources of embolism. Twenty-six of 50 patients with a negative transthoracic echocardiogram for potential source of emboli had a transesophageal echocardiography study that demonstrated at least one intracardiac abnormality. Abnormalities noted by transesophageal echocardiography included five of 50 patients with either a left atrial or left atrial appendage clot, four patients with a patent foramen ovale, and nine patients with spontaneous echocardiographic contrast. In 11 of 50 patients with no other source of embolism, we found highly mobile filamentous strands on the mitral valve, which have not been described previously. These mitral valve echo strands may represent a fissured surface or fibrosis that can serve as a nidus for thrombus formation. We detected no unexpected left ventricular thrombus or left atrial myxoma. Factors significantly associated with a greater likelihood of a positive transesophageal echocardiography study included left atrial enlargement, atrial fibrillation, and a calcified or thickened mitral valve. Our study suggests that transesophageal echocardiography is a valuable addition to transthoracic echocardiography in investigating potential intracardiac sources of embolism. 
Ependymoma: internal correlations among pathological signs: the anaplastic variant. In a series of 298 cases of ependymoma, survival analysis identified some prognostic histological factors but failed to demonstrate a worse survival for the anaplastic variant diagnosed with the common criteria used for assessing anaplasia in primitive brain tumors. This finding suggests that either anaplastic ependymoma does not exist, or that the established criteria are not useful in its identification. To solve these problems, the association of histological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural signs in 173 intracranial cases was investigated and analyzed by means of contingency tables. Many signs had only focal distribution. Some signs, meaningful for anaplasia, such as very high cell density and number of mitoses, were found to be associated, whereas other signs usually considered indicative of anaplasia, such as endothelial hyperplasia, glomeruli, and necrosers, were not. In addition, pseudorosettes, mesodermic areas, and incomplete formation of perivascular pseudorosettes were signs associated with very high cell density and number of mitoses. Distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, as well as other immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features, were not helpful, with the exception of microsettes found by electron microscopy. Our conclusion is that the anaplastic variant of ependymoma is recognizable only when some histological prognostic factors, such as cell density and number of mitoses, are maximally expressed. 
Complications of percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump use in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump use may carry an increased risk for patients with peripheral vascular disease. To determine the incidence and types of associated complications, the medical records of 144 patients who underwent a total of 153 percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump insertions were reviewed. Patients were divided into two groups. Group 1 was composed of 20 patients with a history of peripheral vascular disease. Group 2 was composed of 124 patients without such history; they underwent a total of 133 insertions. Nineteen major complications (12%) occurred, 12 in group 1 (60% of 20 insertions) and seven in group 2 (5% of 133 insertions). Major complications were further classified by their nature: embolic, occlusive, and technical. All three types of complications occurred more frequently in group 1. Embolic complications occurred more frequently in patients with aneurysms and proved the most lethal, with two of six deaths in group 1 resulting from this complication. 
Influence of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on pump function and cardiac contractility in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. Eleven patients with coronary artery disease and chronic heart failure were studied before and three months after the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril was added to their frusemide medication. The following were measured: left ventricular pressure and volume with transient occlusion of the inferior vena cava, radionuclide angiography, and hormone concentrations in plasma. As in other reported studies, the clinical condition of the patients improved and their exercise tolerance increased moderately. Addition of enalapril reduced end diastolic and systolic pressure, reduced ventricular volume, and concomitantly increased the ejection fraction. The end systolic pressure-volume relation shifted to the left as it did in a similar animal study. In the animal study unloading by a vasodilator did not induce a leftward shift, so it can be inferred that in the present study unloading combined with a decrease in the angiotensin concentration was instrumental in remodelling the heart. Though unloading was expected to have a beneficial effect on the oxygen supply/demand ratio of the heart, the patients still showed the same drop in the ejection fraction during exercise as they did before treatment with enalapril, and early diastolic filling did not improve. Normally, regression of cardiac dilatation is only found if pump function improves; the present study showed that unloading in combination with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition reshapes the ventricle without improving intrinsic pump function. 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in hypertension. Compared with blood pressure measurements in the office setting, ambulatory blood pressure monitoring offers a more accurate and reliable method of diagnosing and managing hypertension. Indications for ambulatory blood pressure monitoring include borderline hypertension, a discrepancy between home and office blood pressure measurements, persistent blood pressure elevation in the office with no end-organ damage, episodic elevations of blood pressure or suggestive symptoms, hypertension resistant to treatment, episodic angina not related to exercise, end-organ damage but normal office blood pressure readings, and evaluation of the efficacy of antihypertensive agents. Several cases are presented for review. 
Acute leukemia after a primary myelodysplastic syndrome: immunophenotypic, genotypic, and clinical characteristics. We studied the nature of blast cells in 41 patients with acute leukemia following a previous primary myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) by a combined multiparameter analysis including morphologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular genetic (Igs, T-cell receptor (TCR)-beta, -gamma, and -delta and the major breakpoint cluster region [M-bcr]) investigations. In addition, the clinical and hematologic characteristics according to the immunophenotype of blast cells were analyzed. Our results show that, although the granulocytic and/or monocytic lineages are those most commonly involved in these acute leukemias, other cell components, including the megakaryocytic and lymphoid, may be present (12% and 15% of the cases, respectively). Moreover, both morphologic and phenotypic studies show the frequent coexistence of two or three cell populations. Interestingly, in all cases the lymphoblastic component constantly displayed an early B phenotype (CD19+, CD10-, TdT+). Upon analyzing whether the type of MDS conditioned any differences in the immunophenotype of blast cells, we observed that, although the lymphoid lineage may be involved in all MDS subgroups, some differences emerge within the myeloid leukemic transformations. Thus, the refractory anemias with excess of blasts (RAEB) and RAEB in transformation displayed a significantly higher incidence of myeloblastic and megakaryoblastic transformations, while in the RA, RA with ring sideroblasts and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, the granulo-monocytic phenotype predominated. In addition, our results show that the clinical and hematologic characteristics of these patients may be partially related to the immunophenotype of the blast cells. Ig heavy chain gene rearrangements were found in two of 19 patients analyzed (11%), one with a hybrid leukemia (lymphoid-myeloid) and the other with a granulo-monocytic phenotype. Two other hybrid transformations analyzed were in germline configuration. Gamma and delta gene rearrangements were found in 21% and 37% of these acute transformation, respectively. The TCR-beta and M-bcr were in germline configuration in all 19 cases studied. In summary, immunophenotype and molecular studies point to a pluripotent stem cell with preferential myeloid commitment as the target cell of leukemias following a primary MDS. 
Early photocoagulation for diabetic retinopathy. ETDRS report number 9. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group. The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) enrolled 3711 patients with mild-to-severe nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy in both eyes. One eye of each patient was assigned randomly to early photocoagulation and the other to deferral of photocoagulation. Follow-up examinations were scheduled at least every 4 months and photocoagulation was initiated in eyes assigned to deferral as soon as high-risk proliferative retinopathy was detected. Eyes selected for early photocoagulation received one of four different combinations of scatter (panretinal) and focal treatment. This early treatment, compared with deferral of photocoagulation, was associated with a small reduction in the incidence of severe visual loss (visual acuity less than 5/200 at two consecutive visits), but 5-year rates were low in both the early treatment and deferral groups (2.6% and 3.7%, respectively). Adverse effects of scatter photocoagulation on visual acuity and visual field also were observed. These adverse effects were most evident in the months immediately following treatment and were less in eyes assigned to less extensive scatter photocoagulation. Provided careful follow-up can be maintained, scatter photocoagulation is not recommended for eyes with mild or moderate nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. When retinopathy is more severe, scatter photocoagulation should be considered and usually should not be delayed if the eye has reached the high-risk proliferative stage. The ETDRS results demonstrate that, for eyes with macular edema, focal photocoagulation is effective in reducing the risk of moderate visual loss but that scatter photocoagulation is not. Focal treatment also increases the chance of visual improvement, decreases the frequency of persistent macular edema, and causes only minor visual field losses. Focal treatment should be considered for eyes with macular edema that involves or threatens the center of the macula. 
Anaerobic pathogenesis: collagenase production by Peptostreptococcus magnus and its relationship to site of infection. Fifty isolates of Peptostreptococcus magnus from intraabdominal sepsis, nonpuerperal breast abscess, and diabetic foot infections were examined for collagenase activity using bovine type I collagen. Collagenase production was detected in a higher percentage of strains from nonpuerperal breast and diabetic foot specimens (P less than .001). This enzyme may be responsible for P. magnus playing a more central role in the pathogenesis of nonpuerperal breast abscess and diabetic foot disease than in intraabdominal sepsis. 
Comparative effects of pacing-induced and balloon coronary occlusion ischemia on left ventricular diastolic function in man. BACKGROUND. Effects of pacing-induced and coronary occlusion myocardial ischemia on left ventricular (LV) function have been compared only in anesthetized dogs. Diastolic properties of the same LV anterior wall segment were therefore compared in 12 patients with single-vessel proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis at rest, immediately after 7 +/- 1.2 minutes of pacing, and at the end of a 1-minute balloon occlusion of coronary angioplasty (CO). METHODS AND RESULTS. Shifts of the diastolic LV pressure-length relation, derived from simultaneous tip-micromanometer LV pressure recordings and digital subtraction LV angiograms, were used as an index of regional diastolic LV distensibility of the anterior wall segment. Immediately after pacing, LV end-diastolic pressure rose from 13.5 +/- 3.5 to 23.8 +/- 7.0 mm Hg (p less than 0.01 versus at rest) without a significant change of the LV end-diastolic volume index (83.1 +/- 18.9 versus 88.4 +/- 16.5 ml/m2), percentage systolic shortening (%SS) of the ischemic segment fell from 40.1 +/- 10.6% to 25.2 +/- 8.6% (p less than 0.01), and the diastolic LV pressure-radial length (P-RL) plot of the ischemic segment was shifted upward by 7.1 +/- 5.0 mm Hg for portions of the plot that overlapped with the diastolic LV P-RL plot at rest. At the end of CO, LV end-diastolic pressure rose to 20.8 +/- 7.8 mm Hg (p less than 0.01 versus at rest) and the LV end-diastolic volume index rose to 95.6 +/- 16.3 ml/m2 (p less than 0.05 versus at rest, p less than 0.05 versus after pacing). Ejection fraction and %SS of the ischemic segment fell respectively from 76.6 +/- 6.8% to 46.6 +/- 11.4% (p less than 0.01 versus at rest, p less than 0.01 versus after pacing) and from 40.1 +/- 10.6% to 6.4 +/- 8.6% (p less than 0.01 versus at rest, p less than 0.01 versus after pacing). The diastolic LV P-RL plot of the ischemic segment was shifted upward by 3.1 +/- 2.3 mm Hg for portions of the plot that overlapped with the diastolic LV P-RL plot at rest. This upward shift at the end of CO was significantly smaller (p less than 0.05) than that immediately after pacing. At the end of CO, a correlation (p less than 0.03) was observed for the ischemic segment between %SS and upward shift of the diastolic LV P-RL plot. CONCLUSIONS. The upward shift of the diastolic LV P-RL plot, which was used as an index of decreased regional diastolic LV distensibility, was larger immediately after pacing than at the end of CO. Persistent systolic shortening of ischemic myocardium seems to be a prerequisite for a decrease in diastolic distensibility of the ischemic segment because of the higher %SS of the ischemic segment immediately after pacing, and because of the correlation at the end of CO between the upward shift of the diastolic LV P-RL plot and %SS of the ischemic segment. 
A case of cardiac hydatid cyst localized on the interventricular septum and causing pulmonary emboli. Cardiac hydatid cyst is rarely encountered. In this article, a case of hydatid cyst localized in multiple organs including the ventricular septum and causing pulmonary emboli is reported. 
Lung function in former intravenous drug abusers: the effect of ubiquitous cigarette smoking. PURPOSE: To determine whether former intravenous drug abusers (IVDAs) demonstrate reductions in pulmonary function, especially in the diffusing capacity (DLCO), after adjustment for the effects of their ubiquitous smoking habit. Knowledge of baseline DLCO in this high-risk group is important in evaluating the effects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and ensuing opportunistic infections. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Measurements of single-breath DLCO, forced vital capacity (FVC), and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) were compared with predictive values that adjust for the effects of smoking. Patients were 98 ambulatory former IVDAs regularly attending a methadone maintenance program (62 men and 36 women; 94 current smokers, two ex-smokers, and two nonsmokers). RESULTS: When adjusted for smoking, FEV1 and DLCO were no different in the study sample than in cross sections of the general population: mean FEV1 105% predicted (men) and 97% predicted (women), mean DLCO 95% predicted (men) and 99% predicted (women). Eleven percent of the IVDAs had abnormal values for DLCO; only one subject had a value less than 50% of predicted. CONCLUSIONS: Most former IVDAs who regularly attend an ambulatory methadone program have normal DLCO values when the effects of smoking are taken into account. A decrease in DLCO in such subjects is presumptive evidence of superimposed disease, most likely related to opportunistic infections or HIV-associated malignancy or alveolitis. 
Noninvasive identification of myocardium at risk in patients with acute myocardial infarction and nondiagnostic electrocardiograms with technetium-99m-Sestamibi. BACKGROUND. Patients who have chest pain without electrocardiographic ST elevation are not candidates for thrombolytic therapy in most clinical trials. This study examined the value of technetium-99m-Sestamibi tomographic imaging to assess myocardial perfusion in patients during chest pain without ST elevation. METHODS AND RESULTS. Tc-99m-Sestamibi was injected in 14 patients who had chest pain without ST elevation, who subsequently developed enzymatic evidence of myocardial infarction within 24 hours. Tomographic imaging was performed 1-6 hours after injection. Thirteen of 14 patients showed significant perfusion defects indicative of acute myocardial infarction consistent with absent perfusion (20 +/- 15% of the left ventricle; range, 2-53%); one patient had normal images. Because of the absence of definitive electrocardiographic changes, only five patients received reperfusion therapy within 6 hours of the onset of chest pain. Regional wall motion abnormalities were present in nine of nine patients undergoing contrast ventriculography and correlated with the location of the Tc-99m-Sestamibi perfusion defect. At the time of subsequent coronary angiography, total arterial occlusion was present in 11 of the 14 patients. The infarct-related artery could be identified in 13 of the 14 patients. In six of these 13 patients, the left circumflex was the infarct-related artery. CONCLUSIONS. Patients who have chest pain without electrocardiographic ST elevation may have arterial occlusion and significant myocardium at risk. Tc-99m-Sestamibi imaging may be of benefit in identifying these patients early so that they can be considered for acute reperfusion therapy. 
Efficacy and safety of a short-term (6-h) intravenous infusion of dopexamine in patients with severe congestive heart failure: a randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled multicenter study. Dopexamine hydrochloride is a new synthetic catechol that offers a unique profile of adrenergic and dopaminergic activity. In this multicenter, parallel design, placebo-controlled study, 45 patients with functional class III or IV chronic congestive heart failure were randomized to receive a placebo infusion or one of three different doses of dopexamine. After a 2-h dose titration sequence, patients received a 6-h constant dose infusion. During this 6-h period, dopexamine was infused at rates of 1, 2 and 4 micrograms/kg body weight per min in the low, intermediate and high dose groups, respectively. In patients receiving high dose infusion, dopexamine produced a 78% increase in cardiac index associated with a 43% decrease in systemic vascular resistance and 24% increase in heart rate (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo for all three variables). There was a trend (p = NS) toward a moderate increase in cardiac index at low and intermediate doses. In patients randomized to receive dopexamine, right atrial, systemic arterial, pulmonary artery and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures showed minimal change from baseline and did not differ statistically from the placebo response. Very few patients developed adverse reactions related to dopexamine, although five patients randomized to receive high dose and three patients randomized to receive intermediate dose dopexamine required dose reduction because hemodynamic variables exceeded arbitrary safety limits or the patients developed symptoms related to the study medication. dopexamine in higher doses effectively increases cardiac index in association with a reduction in systemic vascular resistance. Additional clinical studies are indicated to evaluate the merits of dopexamine in comparison with other inotropic and vasodilator medications. 
The treatment of mild hypertension study. A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of a nutritional-hygienic regimen along with various drug monotherapies. The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Research Group. There is no consensus for the optimal treatment program for individuals with mild hypertension, including whether treatment should emphasize life-style changes alone, such as weight loss, reduction of sodium and alcohol intake, and increased physical activity, or whether it should also include a pharmacologic component. The dilemma is accentuated by the availability of many drugs from different classes to lower blood pressure. To study the relative efficacy and safety of a combination of pharmacologic and nutritional-hygienic intervention compared with nutritional-hygienic intervention alone, a double-blind, controlled clinical trial was initiated. Nine hundred two men and women with mild hypertension (average blood pressure, 140/91 mm Hg) were randomized to receive nutritional-hygienic intervention plus one of six treatments: (1) placebo; (2) diuretic (chlorthalidone); (3) beta-blocker (acebutolol); (4) alpha 1-antagonist (doxazosin mesylate); (5) calcium antagonist (amlodipine maleate); or (6) angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (enalapril maleate). After 12 months, weight loss averaged 4.5 kg, urinary sodium excretion was reduced by 23%, and reported leisure-time physical activity was nearly doubled. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the group given nutritional-hygienic intervention alone (placebo) were reduced by 10.6 and 8.1 mm Hg, respectively. For participants in the five groups receiving antihypertensive medication in addition to nutritional-hygienic treatment, blood pressure reductions were significantly greater than those achieved with nutritional-hygienic treatment alone (range, 16 to 22 mm Hg for systolic and 12 to 14 mm Hg for diastolic blood pressure). Although differences among treatment groups in certain dimensions of quality of life, self-reported side effects, plasma lipid levels, and biochemical measures were observed, no consistent pattern in the differences was noted. Nutritional-hygienic therapy is an effective first-step treatment for persons with mild hypertension, and significant additional blood pressure lowering with minimal short-term side effects can be achieved by adding one of five different classes of antihypertensive agents. 
Effective aortic regurgitant orifice area: description of a method based on the conservation of mass. The natural history of aortic regurgitation is incompletely understood in part because of the lack of a simple method to estimate the defect size. A method of determining the effective regurgitant orifice area that combines Doppler catheter and Doppler echocardiographic techniques and is based on the principle of conservation of mass (the continuity equation) is described. To validate the application of the Doppler catheter system for measuring regurgitant supravalvular diastolic flow, an in vitro model of retrograde aortic flow was used. These studies indicated that measurements of supravalvular retrograde velocity with the Doppler catheter accurately reflect retrograde diastolic velocity when the aorta is less than 4.8 cm in diameter. Twenty-three patients undergoing cardiac catheterization were studied; 20 of these patients had aortic regurgitation. Retrograde supravalvular diastolic velocity was determined from a Doppler catheter positioned above the aortic valve. The effective regurgitant orifice area was calculated with use of the Doppler catheter-derived regurgitant volume and mean transvalvular diastolic velocity as determined by either catheterization or continuous wave Doppler echocardiography. The catheterization-derived regurgitant orifice area increased with the angiographic grade of as follows: 1+ (0.04 to 0.10 cm2), 2+ (0.15 to 0.49 cm2), 3+ (0.29 to 1.11 cm2) and 4+ (1.24 to 1.33 cm2). By combining Doppler catheter, echocardiographic and cardiac catheterization techniques, the effective aortic regurgitant orifice area may be estimated; this hydrodynamic area correlates with grading by supravalvular aortography. Calculation of this area provides a quantitative alternative to aortography for estimating the severity of aortic regurgitation but should be used with caution in patients with a markedly dilated aorta. 
Long-term inhibition of tumor growth by tumor necrosis factor in the absence of cachexia or T-cell immunity. The relationship between detrimental (cachectic) and beneficial (antitumor) effects of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) was studied in mice bearing murine tumors transfected to secrete human TNF. In vitro, the TNF-producing transfectants were resistant to the secreted TNF and grew at rates similar to those of untransfected cells or transfected cells that did not secrete TNF. However, tumors formed by the TNF-secreting cells in vivo remained much smaller than the nonsecreting (transfected and untransfected) tumors. This inhibition of tumor growth required only relatively low serum levels of TNF, persisted for many weeks, and was independent of T cells since it occurred in nude mice. Growth of the TNF-secreting tumors increased dramatically after treatment with anti-human TNF antibody, indicating that extracellular TNF secreted by the tumor cells was necessary for the tumor inhibition. Severe weight loss characteristic of cachexia only occurred in animals with very high serum TNF levels (250 pg/ml) and could be prevented or reversed by anti-TNF antibody treatment. These data are consistent with the existence of a therapeutic window in which persistent exposure to human TNF can lead to prolonged inhibition of tumor growth in the absence of T-cell immunity or severe weight loss and without development of resistant tumor variants. 
Acute pulmonary hypertensive crisis in a patient with primary pulmonary hypertension treated by both epoprostenol (prostacyclin) and nitroprusside. A 19-year-old girl was diagnosed as having primary pulmonary hypertension that was confirmed by right heart catheterization. Acute right heart failure was associated with syncope. Stabilization, while not achieved with intravenous epoprostenol (Prostacyclin) alone, was achieved with intravenous prostacyclin and nitroprusside. 
Intracranial metastases from malignant pleural mesothelioma. Report of three autopsy cases and review of the literature. We report three cases of brain metastases from malignant pleural mesothelioma that were seen at autopsy. We present a summarized review of 15 similar reports that were previously published. Our study included three aged male patients with a long occupational history of heavy asbestos exposure. In two patients, the metastases were discovered incidentally at autopsy, and there were no neurologic symptoms referred to before death. In the other patient, who had clinically occult mesothelioma, the intracranial tumor was discovered ante mortem: in this patient, the clinical features, as well as a computed tomographic scan, suggested a primary tumor of the brain. Interestingly, the histologic features of the latter case that were seen at autopsy depicted a spindle cell tumor that focally exhibited pseudopalisading, necrosis, vascular buds, which deceptively recalled a glioblastoma. All the three cases shared a basic sarcomatous pattern of malignant pleural mesothelioma in both primary and metastatic tumors. The immunohistochemical profile was consistent with such interpretation. It was concluded that metastases to the brain from malignant pleural mesothelioma, although rare, are not exceptional even if their clinical relevance is not prominent. They are seen concomitantly with high-grade tumors, and by mimicking a primary tumor on a clinical, instrumental, and histologic ground, they may occasionally represent a potential source of diagnostic pitfall. 
Bilateral retinal artery occlusion due to mitral valve prolapse. We report a case of bilateral retinal artery occlusion due to mitral valve prolapse. Most patients with retinal ischaemia in whom it is found have not been previously known to have it. Since it is a common condition it would seem essential that it be included in the differential diagnosis of amaurosis fugax and retinal artery occlusion if future ischaemic events are to be prevented. All patients with retinal ischaemia should have a full cardiovascular examination supplemented by echocardiography. 
Resectable gastric carcinoma. An evaluation of preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy. Patients with locoregional gastric carcinoma often die because of the low rates of curative resection and frequent appearance of distant metastases (mainly peritoneal and hepatic). To evaluate the feasibility of preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy, 25 consecutive previously untreated patients with potentially resectable locoregional gastric carcinoma received two preoperative and three postoperative courses of etoposide, 5-fluorouracil, and cisplatin (EFP). Ninety-eight courses (median, five courses; range, two to five courses) were administered. Six patients had major responses to EFP. Eighteen patients (72%) had curative resections, and three specimens (12%) contained only microscopic carcinoma. At a median follow-up of 25 months, the median survival of 25 patients was 15 months (range, 4 to 32+ months). Peritoneal carcinomatosis was the most common indication of failure. One patient died of postoperative complications, but there were no deaths due to chemotherapy. EFP-induced toxic reactions were moderate. Preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy for locoregional gastric carcinoma is feasible, and additional studies to develop regimens that could result in 5% to 10% complete pathologic responses may be warranted. 
Stunned left ventricular myocardium after exercise treadmill testing in coronary artery disease. Myocardial stunning (postischemic ventricular dysfunction) occurs in dogs after coronary stenosis following treadmill exercise. Less data are available in humans regarding development of stunned myocardium after exercise. Regional wall motion changes were evaluated in 22 patients with known coronary artery disease using 2-dimensional echocardiography and exercise treadmill testing. Wall motion was scored as 1 = normal, 2 = hypokinetic, 3 = akinetic, 4 = dyskinetic. At least 1 left ventricular segment with normal resting function developed an increase in wall motion score at 15 or 30 minutes compared with values at rest. The wall motion score in the midportion of the ventricular septum increased from 1.0 at rest to 1.6 (p less than 0.004) at 30 minutes after exercise; the basal inferior wall score worsened from 1.0 at rest to 1.9 (p less than 0.01) at 30 minutes after exercise. Coronary angiographic data in these patients revealed that left anterior descending narrowing correlated best with left ventricular septal wall motion abnormalities, whereas right coronary artery and circumflex narrowing best correlated with inferior and posterior wall motion abnormalities. Eight normal adult volunteers with no history of myocardial ischemia also underwent 2-dimensional echocardiography and exercise testing. No wall motion abnormalities were observed at any time after exercise. The present study suggests that in patients with coronary artery disease, exercise treadmill testing may induce regional wall motion abnormalities of the left ventricle that persist greater than or equal to 30 minutes after exercise, an observation consistent with the phenomenon of stunned myocardium. 
Hepatobiliary complications of polyarteritis nodosa. Although polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) may result in thrombosis or aneurysm formation in any organ in the body, hepatobiliary complications are unusual. We reviewed seven cases that demonstrated the diagnostic difficulties and therapeutic options available in the management of hepatobiliary PAN. No consistent sign that indicated the severity of hepatobiliary PAN could be identified. In cases of thrombotic PAN, acalculus cholecystitis usually could be diagnosed preoperatively. Early tissue diagnosis and aggressive intervention are required for appropriate patient treatment. If the diagnosis is unclear, a preoperative muscle or skin biopsy specimen is often helpful in establishing a tissue diagnosis of PAN, even if no obvious pathologic condition is evident. Patients who undergo celiotomy for acalculus cholecystitis or peritoneal signs of an unclear origin should have tissue specimens (gallbladder wall, liver, or omentum) submitted for pathologic study. Angiography may be diagnostic preoperatively or when results of biopsies are equivocal. In addition, early angiography can define the extent of visceral involvement and permit control by embolization of hemorrhage secondary to aneurysm rupture. Awareness of the possibilities of thrombotic, ischemic, or bleeding complications from PAN allows more aggressive and rapid management of abdominal complaints, especially in patients who are receiving immunosuppressant therapy. 
Problems and coping strategies of individuals with traumatic brain injury and their spouses. A pilot investigation is reported on the problems and coping strategies of 20 married men and 11 married women with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and their able-bodied spouses. All injured subjects experienced severe head injury at least one and a half years earlier. A structured, small-group discussion process was used to elicit a prioritized list of problems and a similar list of coping strategies. Individuals with TBI and their spouses identified problems in living as most important; loss of employment and restrictions on autonomy were reported as the most problematic. Men with TBI placed priority on controlling their anger, whereas, women with TBI were concerned with their mood disorders, particularly depression. Women with TBI and able-bodied wives of men with TBI placed high priority on the use of support groups as a coping strategy. Men placed higher priority on individualistic approaches to adjustment, such as suppression of feelings. A number of testable hypotheses resulted from the pilot study. 
Production of endothelium-derived contracting factor is enhanced after coronary reperfusion. To determine whether coronary reperfusion enhances the production of endothelium-derived contracting factor, we investigated dogs subjected to global cardiac ischemia (45 minutes) followed by reperfusion (60 minutes). Segments of reperfused and control coronary arteries were suspended in organ chambers to measure isometric force. Perfusate hypoxia caused endothelium-dependent contraction in the control and reperfused arteries. However, reperfused arteries exhibited hypoxic contraction that was significantly greater than control segments. The hypoxic contractions in both the control and reperfused arteries could be inhibited by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), the blocker of endothelial cell synthesis of nitric oxide from L-arginine. The action of L-NMMA could be reversed by L-arginine but not D-arginine. Thus, after reperfusion, augmented production of endothelium-derived contracting factor occurs by an L-arginine-dependent pathway. We hypothesize that nitric oxide produced by L-arginine metabolism combines with superoxide anion to produce the peroxynitrite anion (ONOO-), which is metabolized to endothelium-derived contracting factor or induces its synthesis. Augmented production of endothelium-derived contracting factor would favor vasospasm after reperfusion. 
Risk factors for stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation: a case-control study. PURPOSE: Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated that anticoagulant therapy is very effective at preventing stroke among patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. However, these trials have reported too few strokes for powerful risk factor analysis. Observational studies may provide additional information. The purpose of this study was to identify risk factors in a larger number of patients with stroke and nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation, using case-control methodology. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We identified all patients discharged from one hospital over an 8-year period who met our case definition of nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation and ischemic stroke (n = 134), and compared them with contemporaneous control subjects who were discharged with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation without stroke (n = 131). RESULTS: Cases and controls were similar in terms of duration of atrial fibrillation; proportion with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; percentage with a past medical history of angina, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, diabetes, or smoking; and mean left atrial size. In contrast, cases were significantly older than controls (78.5 versus 74.8 years, p = 0.002) and more likely to have a history of hypertension (55% versus 38%, p = 0.0093). The relative odds for stroke was 1.91 for patients with hypertension, 1.73 for patients older than 75 years, and 3.26 for patients with both factors. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that age and hypertension should be considered when deciding upon long-term anticoagulant therapy to prevent stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. 
Natural history of dilated cardiomyopathy in children. To assess the natural history and potential risk factors in childhood dilated cardiomyopathy, we investigated 25 patients (ages 9.6 +/- 4.4 years) who presented after they were 2 years old. All patients had symptoms of congestive heart failure and reduced contractility with a dilated left ventricle at presentation. Two factors at presentation were significantly different between patients who died less than 1 year after the presentation (n = 14) and those who survived for more than 1 year (n = 9); cardiothoracic ratio (65.1% +/- 6.8% vs 57.1% +/- 6.1%, p less than 0.01) and left ventricular ejection fraction (31.3% +/- 7.0% vs 40.0% +/- 6.2%, p less than 0.05). Irrespective of intensive medical therapy, dilated cardiomyopathy in children had a poor prognosis; the actuarial survival rate was 41% at 1 year and 20% at 3 years. Other forms of therapy should be considered in the early stages of dilated cardiomyopathy in this high-risk group. 
Immunophenotyping of lymphocytes in liver tissue of patients with chronic liver diseases by flow cytometry. Immunological factors are important in the pathogenesis of a spectrum of hepatobiliary diseases. To characterize the nature of specific immunological responses in liver disease, we determined lymphocyte changes in liver tissue and in blood using flow cytometry. A total of 113 liver biopsy specimens was collected from patients with the following diseases: 19 chronic hepatitis B; 39 chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis; 27 alcoholic liver disease; 10 hepatic malignancy; 8 autoimmune hepatitis; 6 fatty liver and 4 primary biliary cirrhosis. The lymphocytes were isolated from the liver biopsy specimens by mechanical and enzymatic methods. The lymphocyte yield was 7,901 +/- 575 cells/mg of liver tissue. The viability of lymphocytes was 97.7% +/- 0.3%. Lymphocytes were stained with four pairs of two-color mixed fluorescein-conjugated monoclonal antibodies, including T4-T8 (CD4/CD8), T11-B1 (CD2-CD20), NKH1-T8 (CD56-CD8), IL-2R1-T11 (CD25-CD2), and the ratios were determined by an Epics Profile flow cytometer. Immunophenotyping of lymphocytes in whole blood samples was simultaneously analyzed. Variability in lymphocyte yield and different patterns of lymphocyte subsets were found in the liver biopsy specimens. The yields of lymphocytes from patients with chronic non-A, non-B and autoimmune hepatitis were highest, and the lowest yield was from patients with fatty liver. Patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, fatty liver and hepatic malignancy had relatively high ratios of CD4/CD8, CD56/CD8 and CD25/CD2; whereas patients with chronic hepatitis B, autoimmune hepatitis and non-A, non-B hepatitis had lower ratios of CD4/CD8, CD56/CD8 and CD25/CD2. No difference in lymphocyte ratios between the patients with cirrhotic and noncirrhotic alcoholic liver disease was found. 
An evaluation of immunohistologic stains for immunoglobulin light chains in bone marrow biopsies in benign and malignant plasma cell proliferations. Bone marrow specimens from 226 patients with a variety of benign and malignant plasma cell proliferations were studied to assess the reliability of immunohistologic studies in their evaluation. The clonality of the bone marrow plasma cells was compared with results of serum and urine electrophoreses. Discordance was observed most frequently in cases in which a paraprotein was demonstrated, but no monoclonality was detected by immunoperoxidase (16 cases). Of these 16 cases, 9 had 5% or less bone marrow plasma cells. In only one case was the light chain class of the bone marrow plasma cells different from that of the paraprotein. If discordant cases with 5% or less plasma cells are eliminated, the overall concordance was 97%. The authors' findings indicate that immunohistologic studies for immunoglobulin light chains in Zenker-fixed decalcified bone marrow biopsy sections are reliable in the evaluation of patients with plasma cell proliferations when the marrow contains more than 5% plasma cells. 
Coronary recanalization rate after intravenous bolus of alteplase in acute myocardial infarction. The demonstration in animals that recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator produces prolonged thrombolysis after its clearance from the circulation has prompted a few pilot studies of bolus administration in patients. Alteplase (bolus dose of 70 mg) resulted in the highest recanalization rate in our previous pilot study comparing bolus doses of 50, 60 and 70 mg of alteplase in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The aim of the present trial was to assess the efficacy and safety of the same bolus dose in a larger number of patients. A further objective was to study the angiographic reocclusion rate at 12 to 24 hours in patients who had a recanalized infarct-related coronary artery at 90 minutes and were randomized at that time to a bolus dose or an infusion for 3 hours of 30 mg of alteplase. Sixty patients with acute myocardial infarction and angiographically documented total occlusion of the infarct-related coronary artery before thrombolysis were treated within 5 hours of onset of symptoms with an intravenous 70-mg bolus dose of alteplase (or 80 mg if body weight was greater than or equal to 90 kg). Each patient received 5,000 IU of heparin intraarterially and 100 mg of aspirin by mouth before administration of alteplase. Coronary angiography was repeated 60 and 90 minutes after alteplase administration. The recanalization rate of the infarct-related coronary artery was 55% (95% confidence interval, 43 to 66%) at 60 minutes and 48% (95% confidence interval, 37 to 60%) at 90 minutes. Pretreatment levels of lipoprotein (a) were not significantly related to recanalization. 
Symptomatic intrasellar arachnoid cyst: case report. A case of a large symptomatic intrasellar arachnoid cyst with suprasellar extension is reported. A 53-year-old man was admitted because of decreased visual acuity. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a large intrasellar cyst extending into the suprasellar cistern, with compression of optic nerves. The intensity of the cyst was identical to that of the surrounding subarachnoid space on both T1-, T2-, and proton density-weighted images. Transsphenoidal surgery was performed, but subsequent refilling of the cyst required additional transcranial surgery. Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid-like cystic fluid revealed high levels of protein and pituitary hormones. Histological study revealed that the cyst wall was composed of connective tissue and arachnoid cells, which were ultrastructurally characterized by a number of desmosomes. Diagnostic, surgical, and pathological features of intrasellar arachnoid cysts are discussed. 
Evidence of malignant features in histologically mature teratoma. A total of 33 specimens from 29 patients with residual stable teratoma and mature growing teratoma after chemotherapy was analyzed for clinicopathological and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) flow cytometric variables, as well as the presence of proliferative antigen and tumor marker levels in an attempt to explain their clinical behavior. We compared the flow cytometric and histological data of these stable and growing teratomas, and of nonseminomatous germ cell tumors before chemotherapy. The DNA content of residual teratoma did not differ significantly from that of the primary testicular tumors (1.38 versus 1.48). Histological analysis of stable and growing teratomas revealed no significant difference but proliferative cellular nuclear antigen was expressed mainly in the epithelial component of the growing teratoma. alpha-Fetoprotein, beta-human chorionic gonadotropin and carcinoembryonic antigen were elevated in the fluid of 6 excised teratomas, while concomitant serum levels were normal. The aneuploidy and elevated cystic fluid tumor markers confirm the malignant phenotype of post-chemotherapy residual teratomas. Therefore, complete surgical removal is essential despite the benign histological appearance. 
HIV-2 infection among prostitutes working in The Gambia: association with serological evidence of genital ulcer diseases and with generalized lymphadenopathy. Three hundred and fifty-five prostitutes working in The Gambia were enrolled in a study of retroviral infections. Eight-seven (24.6%) were infected with HIV-2 only, two (0.6%) with HIV-1 only, four (1.1%) had sera showing double HIV-1/HIV-2 reactivity, and 37 (10.4%) were seropositive for HTLV-I. After allowing for socioeconomic and serological variables in a multivariate analysis, HIV-2 infection was associated with serological evidence of a previous episode of syphilis [a rapid plasma reagin (RPR) positive/Treponema pallidum haemagglutination assay (TPHA) positive; odds ratio (OR) = 2.18, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.19-3.98], with having antibodies against Haemophilus ducreyi (OR = 2.05, 95% CI = 0.89-4.70) or against HTLV-I (OR = 2.17, 95% CI = 0.91-5.19). HIV-2-seropositive prostitutes were three times more likely [17 out of 78 (22%) versus 15 out of 219 (7%), P less than 0.001] to have generalized lymphadenopathy than those who were seronegative. These data suggest that genital ulcer diseases may facilitate the transmission of HIV-2, and that HIV-2 rapidly induces the appearance of generalized lymphadenopathy in a substantial proportion of infected individuals. 
Aortic dissection type A surgery: Doppler sonography to evaluate correct carotid artery perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass. In the surgery of acute aortic type A dissection we have employed preoperative and intraoperative Doppler sonography, to check safe and correct perfusion of the carotid arteries by the cardiopulmonary bypass before instituting cardiac arrest. Ten patients, operated upon for acute aortic type A dissection, were evaluated by means of Doppler sonography and in two patients a very abnormal flow pattern was found in the carotid arteries at the moment of aortic cross-clamping; immediate unclamping allowed temporary antegrade carotid perfusion, while the perfusion technique was readjusted. We report our experience with preoperative and intraoperative Doppler sonography, which appears to be a valuable new method of improving the surgical management of acute aortic type A dissection. 
Diagnosis and monitoring of subarachnoid hemorrhage by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography. Thirty-six patients with acute spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (26 caused by rupture of an aneurysm) were examined by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography by using a 2.25-MHz ultrasound transducer. In 20 of these 26 patients (76%), the aneurysm could be identified by a characteristic abnormal blood flow pattern within the aneurysm in coronal and axial scanning planes by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography. Blood within the basal cisterns, on top of the tentorium, and within the ventricles and parenchyma was sonographically detected by increased echodensity in 75%. In addition, cerebrospinal fluid circulation disturbances and cerebral vasospasm were detected in two-dimensional B-mode images in 85% and 100%, respectively. In Doppler mode, intravascular blood flow velocity could be quantified. We conclude that transcranial color-coded real-time sonography, a new, noninvasive method for diagnosis and follow-up of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, allows detection of the primary vascular lesion and monitoring of complications. 
Hypotensive anesthesia for scoliosis surgery in Jehovah's Witnesses. Hypotensive anesthesia has been advocated in spinal surgery for the purpose of diminishing operative blood loss. This study evaluated its effectiveness in 12 Jehovah's Witnesses undergoing Harrington instrumentation and fusion who refused transfusion. Previous series from this institute did not use deliberate hypotension because of routinely low blood loss. Compared with matched controls operated on under normotensive anesthesia, the Jehovah's Witness patients had lower absolute blood loss but also shorter operative time. Applied linear-regression analysis demonstrated that the diminished blood loss was associated with shorter operative time (P = 0.0002) rather than lower blood pressure. The majority of blood losses in spinal instrumentation with fusion occurs with decortication. This rapid bleeding occurs at venous pressures which are unaffected by arterial blood pressure manipulation. The authors conclude that spinal surgery is possible in Jehovah's Witnesses without transfusion and that operative technique is the single most important determinant of blood loss. 
Binding and internalization of transforming growth factor-beta 1 by human hepatoma cells: evidence for receptor recycling. Cellular processing of 125I-labeled transforming growth factor-beta 1 was investigated in the human hepatoma cell lines Hep G2 and Hep 3B. Binding of 125I-transforming growth factor-beta 1 to cell surface receptors was specific, saturable and calcium-independent. Both cell lines exhibited a single class of high-affinity (Kd = 2.2 x 10(-10) mol/L) binding sites (4.5 x 10(3) for the Hep G2 cell; 1.5 x 10(3) for the Hep 3B cell) for both human and porcine transforming growth factor-beta 1. Binding was temperature dependent, time dependent and pH dependent. Cell-bound 125I-transforming growth factor-beta 1 was removed by brief exposure to acidic medium (pH less than 4) but was converted into an acid-resistant state rapidly after shifting the cells to 37 degrees C. Spontaneous dissociation of bound ligand over a 6 hr period at 4 degrees C was less than 10%. Disuccinimidyl suberate was used to covalently label 125I-transforming growth factor-beta 1 to cell-surface binding sites. Labeling of the ligand/receptor complexes was inhibited by unlabeled transforming growth factor-beta 1 but was unaffected by other growth factors. The radiolabeled complexes showed approximate molecular weights of 280,000, 85,000 and 65,000 when run on reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Cell-bound 125I-transforming growth factor-beta 1 was internalized and degraded at 37 degrees C, and the products were released into the medium as trichloroacetic acid-nonprecipitable radioactivity. The lysosomotropic base chloroquine and the carboxylic ionphore monensin inhibited degradation and release of 125I-labeled products from the cells. 
A prospective, controlled analysis of endoscopic cytotechniques for diagnosis of malignant biliary strictures. We prospectively collected brushings and bile for cytology in 30 consecutive patients with bile duct strictures (17 malignant, 13 benign) who were assessed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiography. When appropriate, the cellular debris on stents that were removed from individuals who were managed with these devices was evaluated for malignant cells as well. Our aim was to assess the value of these endoscopic cytotechniques for making a diagnosis of obstructing cancer of the biliary tract. A cumulative total of 78 specimens were obtained. Overall, sensitivity was highest for stent (36%) and brush (33%) cytology, compared with results obtained from bile (6%). If the results for all methods are combined, 47% of patients with cancer (eight of 17) could be diagnosed by one or more cytological technique. There were no false-positive results (specificity, 100%). Our results show that brush and stent cytology are nearly equivalent for detecting cancer, but because a diagnosis is delayed until the endoprosthesis is removed (mean 3.4 months), the brush technique is preferred. Results for bile cytology are marginal. Specificity for these cytotechniques is high; therefore, a positive result by any method is sufficient evidence for cancer, and other invasive diagnostic procedures are unnecessary. 
Coordinate regulation of HOX genes in human hematopoietic cells. Hematopoiesis is a continuous process in which precursor cells proliferate and differentiate throughout life. However, the molecular mechanisms that govern this process are not clearly defined. Homeobox-containing genes, encoding DNA-binding homeodomains, are a network of genes highly conserved throughout evolution. They are organized in clusters expressed in the developing embryo with a positional hierarchy. We have analyzed expression of the four human HOX loci in erythroleukemic, promyelocytic, and monocytic cell lines to investigate whether the physical organization of human HOX genes reflects a regulatory hierarchy involved in the differentiation process of hematopoietic cells. Our results demonstrate that cells representing various stages of hematopoietic differentiation display differential patterns of HOX gene expression and that HOX genes are coordinately switched on or off in blocks that may include entire loci. The entire HOX4 locus is silent in all lines analyzed and almost all the HOX2 genes are active in erythroleukemic cells and turned off in myeloid-restricted cells. Our observations provide information about the regulation of HOX genes and suggest that the coordinate regulation of these genes may play an important role in lineage determination during early steps of hematopoiesis. 
Epilepsy surgery in the posterior cortex. Fourteen (74%) of 19 patients obtained a significant reduction in seizures after posterior corticectomy; 6 (32%) were seizure-free over a median follow-up of 3.7 years (range, 1 to 14 years). Surgery included limited resections of the occipital lobe in 16 patients, posterior temporal region in 11, and posterior portion of parietal lobe in 7. Surgical failure related to probable multiple areas of epileptogenesis (4 patients), or limited resections (2 patients) to preserve visual fields (2 patients) and to avoid dyslexia (1 patient). Of 14 patients without a complete hemianopia preoperatively, 6 (43%) developed a new or increased visual field deficit, 2 (14%) of which were hemianopia. Four (36%) of 11 occipital lobe resections resulted in a new or increased visual field deficit: quadrantanopia in 3 and hemianopia in 1. Visual phenomena were the most common initial ictal symptoms, occurring in 13 (68%) of the 19 patients. Twelve patients had complex partial seizures: in 2, always without warning; in 7, always following an aura, usually visual; and in 3 patients, with or without warning. Scalp electroencephalography identified the origin of most recorded seizures in 12 (63%) of the 19 patients. A principal interictal spike focus appeared in 15 patients (79%), and always correlated with the epileptogenic lobe as defined by scalp and/or subdural-recorded seizures (14 patients) or by clinical analysis and computed tomography (1 patient). 
Arterial hemorrhage after pancreatoduodenectomy. The 'sentinel bleed'. Experienced centers report reduced operative mortality after pancreatoduodenectomy for cancer, but significant complications continue to occur in as many as 25% of patients. Anastomotic disruption leads to sepsis in the pancreatic bed where major vascular structures have been exposed by regional lymphadenectomy, creating a setting for arterial erosion or ligature slough and massive hemorrhage. Dehiscence of the pancreatojejunostomy is a particular risk. We treated five patients with arterial hemorrhage after pancreatoduodenectomy, all of whom had had "sentinel" bleeding from the abdominal drains or gastrointestinal tract. Results of endoscopy were misleading in two patients. Three of five patients were saved by prompt recognition, early operation, and, in one instance, angiographic embolization. Sentinel bleeding after pancreatoduodenectomy indicates local sepsis and probable anastomotic dehiscence. Recognition of its significance and prompt response may prevent exsanguination. 
Venous haemangioma of the neck and mediastinum. A case of cervico-mediastinal venous haemangioma with diffuse upper respiratory airway involvement is reported. The lesion was considered to be an ordinary supraglottic haemangioma at first. We recommend that adult cases of laryngeal haemangioma should be carefully examined for extra-laryngeal lesions. 
Evidence for superoxide radical-dependent coronary vasospasm after angioplasty in intact dogs. BACKGROUND. Active oxygen species can influence vascular tone and platelet activation through a variety of mechanisms. This study assessed the role of the superoxide anion, the hydroxyl radical, and hydrogen peroxide in vasoconstriction and mural thrombosis after coronary artery angioplasty in intact dogs. METHODS AND RESULTS. Injury was induced by inflation of a balloon catheter 50 +/- 6% above baseline arterial diameter; dogs were followed for 2 hours before death. Epicardial coronary diameters at arteriography and extent of thrombus deposition at serial histological sections were analyzed in controls (n = 20) and in dogs pretreated with superoxide dismutase (SOD, a superoxide radical scavenger, n = 10); other dogs were pretreated with the hydrogen peroxide scavenger catalase (n = 8), the iron chelator deferoxamine (n = 6), or the hydroxyl radical scavenger 1,3-dimethyl-2-thiourea (n = 9). Angioplasty-induced injury was similar among groups. After angioplasty, control dogs exhibited localized and persistent vessel constriction, which was maximal at the initial 5 minutes (28.9 +/- 6.3% diameter decrease versus baseline). Corresponding arterial diameters of SOD-treated dogs were 24-69% larger (95% confidence interval, p less than 0.001) than controls at 5 minutes and, on average, 32% larger than controls thereafter (p less than 0.01). Vasoconstriction was not prevented by the other treatments. The SOD dose used accounted for inhibition of zymosan-stimulated blood cytochrome c reduction versus baseline (7 +/- 3 versus 30 +/- 6 nmol/min/10(6) cells, respectively, p = 0.003); such inhibition occurred in no other group. Prevalence of mural thrombosis was similar among all groups, but large thrombi (greater than 15% of lumen area) were absent in SOD-treated dogs, contrary to control group (p = 0.028); other groups were similar to control. In the absence of injury, SOD alone induced no change in coronary diameter, coronary blood flow, or platelet aggregation. CONCLUSIONS. These data provide evidence implicating the superoxide radical in the genesis of vasoconstriction after coronary angioplasty in vivo. Such effects seem to be independent of its conversion to hydroxyl radicals and availability of hydrogen peroxide or catalytic iron complexes. 
Valproate in the treatment of persistent chronic daily headache. An open label study. Thirty patients with persistent chronic daily headache, unresponsive to various combinations of pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment were selected for an open label study using divalproex sodium. All patients had normal liver function tests. After a baseline observation period of 1 month, patients were given divalproex sodium 1000 to 2000 mg per day, for a period of 3 months. Blood valproic acid levels were kept between 75 and 100 mcg/ml. Liver function studies and blood ammonia levels were obtained periodically. Based on weekly headache index, headache-free days, dysfunctional days and patients' general well-being rating and physicians' global assessment, two thirds of the patients improved significantly. The common side effects included weight gain, tremor, hair loss and nausea. Liver functions were unaffected by treatment. The possible mechanism of action of valproate in headache is discussed. Valproate appears to be a worthwhile addition to the prophylactic treatment of chronic recurrent headache. 
Sequential administration of recombinant human interleukin-2 and dacarbazine in metastatic melanoma: a multicenter phase II study. Twenty-five assessable patients with metastatic melanoma have been entered in a multicenter phase II study of two induction cycles of human recombinant interleukin-2(IL2), 18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d continuous intravenous (IV) infusion on days 1 to 5 and days 12 to 17. Dacarbazine (DTIC), 850 mg/m2 IV bolus was given on day 26. The cycle was repeated at 5 weeks. Maintenance therapy was scheduled 3 weeks after the completion of induction treatment, consisting of IL2, 18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d for 5 days alternating with DTIC, 850 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks, for a total of 18 weeks. Six patients responded (24%); two complete and four partial. Stable disease was seen in five patients. None of the six patients with more than two sites of metastases responded. Maximum response was observed in the first 3 months of treatment. Progression-free periods of 6 months and longer were seen in the two complete responders (8 and 17+ months), in two of the four partial responders (7 and 12+ months), and in three of the five patients with stable disease (9+, 15, and 17+ months). Toxicity included fever, skin rash, fatigue, anorexia, and diarrhea in most patients. Two patients had a weight gain of more than 10%. Eight patients needed intensive care for the observation and treatment of a myocardial injury (one patient), ventricular tachycardia (one), hypotension and oliguria (four), and sepsis (two). Sequential treatment with IL2 and DTIC appears to be effective but not clearly better than could be expected of IL2 alone. 
Total parenteral nutrition-induced steatosis: reversal by parenteral lipid infusion. Prolonged use of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) may be associated with hepatic complications, primarily steatosis and cholestasis. A case is reported of an 18-year-old woman with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction syndrome who was on prolonged home parenteral nutrition without lipid supplementation and developed steatosis. This finding was reversed by addition of lipid emulsion, at a dose of 0.5 g/kg/day, to the parenteral nutrition solution. The lack of lipid supplementation as a possible cause of steatosis, as well as other mechanisms of liver steatosis associated with TPN, are discussed. 
Case-control study of leukaemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in children in Caithness near the Dounreay nuclear installation [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Apr 6;302(6780):818] OBJECTIVE--To examine whether the observed excess of childhood leukaemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the area around the Dounreay nuclear installation is associated with established risk factors, or with factors related to the plant, or with parental occupation in the nuclear industry. DESIGN--Case-control study. SETTING--Caithness local government district. SUBJECTS--14 cases of leukaemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma occurring in children aged under 15 years diagnosed in the area between 1970 and 1986 and 55 controls matched for sex, date of birth, and area of residence within Caithness at time of birth. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Antenatal abdominal x ray examination; drugs taken and viral infections during pregnancy; father's occupation; father's employment at Dounreay and radiation dose; distance of usual residence from the path of microwave beams, preconceptional exposure to non-ionising radiation in the father; and other lifestyle factors. RESULTS--No raised relative risks were found for prenatal exposure to x rays, social class of parents, employment at Dounreay before conception or diagnosis, father's dose of ionising radiation before conception, or child's residence within 50 m of the path of microwave transmission beams. Results also proved negative for all lifestyle factors except an apparent association with use of beaches within 25 km of Dounreay. However, this result was based on small numbers, arose in the context of multiple hypothesis testing, and is certainly vulnerable to possible systematic bias. CONCLUSION--The raised incidence of childhood leukaemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma around Dounreay cannot be explained by paternal occupation at Dounreay or by paternal exposure to external ionising radiation before conception. The observation of an apparent association between the use of beaches around Dounreay and the development of childhood leukaemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma might be an artefact of multiple testing and influenced by recall bias. 
Use of i.v. radionuclide total body arteriography to evaluate arterial bypass shunts--a new method--a review of several cases. Currently, Doppler ultrasound and contrast angiography are the main imaging procedures being used to evaluate arterial bypass shunts. IV radionuclide total body arteriography (TBA) is another useful imaging procedure for evaluation of bypass shunts. The authors reviewed 33 patients, 19 women and 14 men, ranging in age from forty-three to eighty-five, who had TBA done after arterial bypass surgery. Ten patients had multiple shunts and 5 had multiple follow-up studies. In total there were 80 shunts, including 43 femoropopliteal, 16 axillofemoral, 1 axillopopliteal, 13 crossover femorofemoral, and 7 aortofemoral shunts. Sixty-two of the 80 shunts were patent, 14 were occluded, and 4 had partial occlusion. The results were confirmed by Doppler studies, contrast angiograms, and/or surgical exploration without false positives or false negatives. Since the radiotracer used was 99mTc-labeled red blood cells, a MUGA study can also be performed immediately following TBA in the same injection. Twenty-eight patients had gated cardiac blood pool studies (MUGA) done; 16 had abnormal wall motion and diminished ventricular function. TBA requires only a single IV injection of radiotracer (less than 1 cc) in the upper limb. The imaging times for total body arterial and perfusion images are seventy seconds and five minutes respectively. Both total body arterial and perfusion images clearly demonstrated the entire course of shunts (single or multiple); underlying and coexisting arterial abnormalities, e g, occlusive disease (27 patients), or aneurysm (3 patients); and related perfusion changes in the extremities. TBA has unique features. It permits a complete, excellent visualization of the bypass graft without the hazard of contrast media injection. It is a simple and a virtually noninvasive procedure, particularly useful for preoperative workups and postoperative follow-ups. 
Temporarily implanted urethral coil stent for the treatment of recurrent urethral strictures: a preliminary report. A new urethral stent developed for use in recurrent urethral strictures is presented. This metallic coil is self-expanding when released from its introducing catheter. The stent was used in 18 patients with recurrent strictures necessitating frequent dilation or urethrotomy. The stent is introduced under fluoroscopic guidance after internal urethrotomy or simple dilation. Strictures of 5 to 60 mm. were treated successfully with this device. All strictures were distal to the external sphincter. No serious complications attributed to the device were recorded. When necessary, the stent could be repositioned either under fluoroscopic control or endoscopically. This device can hold the stenotic area of the urethra open for long intervals allowing for complete healing. Even after 6 months the stent is not covered with urethral epithelium and does not become incorporated into the urethral wall. It can be removed easily without an operation by simple manipulation. The large internal caliber permits passage of endoscopes up to 17F in patients who require cystoscopy. The device can be removed before transurethral resections and then a new stent can be inserted at the end of the procedure. Mean followup of our patients with the stent indwelling was 8 months (range 4 to 11 months). Followup after removal of the stent (6 patients) was 3 to 8 months (mean 5 months). The patients voided well during followup and were fully continent. No incrustations were noted in the removed stents even after 6 months and no stent became obstructed due to tissue proliferation or incrustation. In 1 patient the stricture recurred after 3 months and a new stent was inserted. Urine sterilization was obtained in 7 patients with infected urine after relatively short courses of antibiotics. This stent seems to be a promising tool for the nonoperative treatment of recurrent urethral strictures. 
Mother and child. Trauma in pregnancy. The role of the emergency physician in optimizing outcome for the maternal and fetal victims of trauma is pivotal. Knowledge of the anatomic and physiologic changes of pregnancy aid in understanding the nuances of care of the pregnant trauma patient. Both catastrophic and noncatastrophic trauma can be managed with confidence and expertise by recalling the maternal and fetal pathophysiologic responses to trauma. Burns and electrical injuries carry significant fetal risks, which may be minimized by rapid and knowledgeable emergency care. 
Cilioretinal artery occlusion in young adults with central retinal vein occlusion. Ten patients, all younger than 50 years of age, had a temporal cilioretinal artery occlusion associated with a nonischemic central retinal vein occlusion. On fluorescein angiography, the cilioretinal artery eventually filled in all but one eye. The cilioretinal artery showed pulsations on fluorescein angiography in five eyes. The central retinal vein occlusion eventually resolved and the fundus assumed a normal appearance in all nine of the followed cases. Eight of nine eyes that underwent follow-up examination had final visual acuity of 20/30 or better. The occlusion of the central retinal vein produces an elevation of intraluminal capillary pressure because the central retinal artery continues to pump blood into the retina. Because the perfusion pressure of the cilioretinal artery is lower than the central retinal artery, it becomes relatively occluded. The prognosis for these patients is generally good unless the entire parafoveal capillary net is affected by the cilioretinal artery that is occluded. 
Perilymphatic fistula: analysis of free amino acids in middle ear microaspirates. High-performance liquid chromatography was used to determine 19 free amino acid concentrations in perilymph, serum/plasma, and red blood cell intracellular fluid. Significant differences were found between perilymph and these fluids. Free amino acid analysis was then used to quantitatively analyze middle ear microaspirates in order to test the hypothesis that perilymph is a potential source of clear fluid in perilymphatic fistulas (PLF). Fourteen unknown samples from patients with visually identified PLF, including patients with no identifiable otic capsule defect, were studied. Six samples on amino acid pattern analysis were correlated most similarly with perilymph (rrho greater than 0.95). Four of these six samples were scored on the basis of quantitative amino acid values as similar to perilymph. However, three samples of clear fluid were more similar to serum/plasma than to perilymph on both amino acid pattern and quantitative amino acid score analysis. These results objectively suggest perilymph as a potential source of clear fluid in some patients with a diagnosis of PLF. Not all clear fluid observed in the middle ear, however, is potentially perilymph. 
Predictors of clinical response in hirsute women treated with spironolactone. OBJECTIVE: To examine the clinical efficacy of low dose spironolactone in hirsute women. DESIGN: Retrospective. SETTING: Outpatient endocrinology clinic. PATIENTS: One hundred nine consecutive women prescribed 75 to 100 mg/d spironolactone for at least 4 months in whom adequate follow-up data were available. RESULTS: Hirsutism improved in 72% of the women. Women with regular menses, whether or not they used oral contraceptives (OCs), had the highest response rate to spironolactone (78%), whereas women with irregular menses who did not use an OC had the lowest response rate (55%). Favorable responses were associated with increased severity of hirsutism (P = 0.04) and lower serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels (P = 0.05). Responders and nonresponders did not differ significantly in age (P = 0.10), duration of hirsutism (P = 0.14), pretreatment serum testosterone (T) (P = 0.48), or body mass index (P = 0.11). However, when each parameter was divided into subsets, trends toward decreasing response were observed with increasing age, duration of hirsutism over 15 years, and increasing serum T level. CONCLUSION: Low-dose spironolactone improves hirsutism in a majority of hirsute women, irrespective of age, severity or duration of hirsutism, menstrual status, or serum hormone levels. 
Quantitative analysis of basal dendrites of prefrontal pyramidal cells after chronic alcohol consumption and withdrawal in the adult rat. The effects of chronic alcohol consumption and withdrawal on the organization of the basal dendrites of layer III pyramidal cells of the prelimbic cortex were studied in groups of rats fed on alcohol for 6 or 18 months, and in a group fed for 12 months, then switched to water for a further 6 months (withdrawal group). Three-dimensional analysis of the dendritic arborizations showed an age-dependent increase in several dendritic parameters, but a net stability was found in the metrical parameters between alcohol-fed and respective control rats. Conversely, a dendritic impoverishment occurred in the withdrawal group. The linear density of dendritic spines remained stable in all groups studied. Together with the previously found marked loss of the neurons after alcohol consumption and withdrawal, these findings point to a decrease in the available targets for afferents and therefore to the presence of probable functional alterations as a consequence of those in the connectivity patterns of the prelimbic area occurring under these conditions. 
Endometriosis in episiotomy scar with anal sphincter involvement. Report of a case. A case of endometriosis in an episiotomy scar with involvement of the external anal sphincter is presented. The clinical, operative, and pathologic findings are reported. The question of etiology and treatment is discussed, and the literature is reviewed. Wide excision of the ectopic endometrial tissue with primary reconstruction of the external sphincter was curative, and the functional result was excellent. It is suggested that this treatment policy should be recommended for these cases. 
Aortic dissection resulting from tear of transverse arch: is concomitant arch repair warranted? Forty-seven patients with aortic dissection resulting from a primary tear located in the transverse aortic arch underwent surgical treatment. Twenty-six patients had acute type A, 7 had acute type B, 7 had chronic type A, and 7 had chronic type B aortic dissections. Of the 33 patients with acute dissections, 11 (7 acute type A and 4 acute type B) underwent concomitant arch repair with an operative (less than or equal to 30 days) mortality rate of 55% (35% to 73%, +/- 1 asymmetric 70% confidence limit) (2 of 7 acute type A and 4 of 4 acute type B). Concomitant arch repair was omitted in 22 patients with acute dissections (19 acute type A and 3 acute type B); the operative mortality rate was 41% (29% to 54%) (7 of 19 acute type A and 2 of 3 acute type B) (p = not significant versus arch repair). The overall survival rate for those with arch repair was 45% +/- 15% (+/- 1 standard error of the estimate) at 4 years, compared with 43% +/- 11% for patients without arch repair (p = not significant). Considering the type of dissection, the 4-year survival estimate for patients with acute type A dissections who underwent arch repair (5 hemiarch and 2 total arch) was 71% +/- 17% (versus 44% +/- 12% for acute type A patients without arch repair). There were no survivors among the 4 patients with acute type B dissections who had an arch repair (1 hemiarch and 3 total arch), whereas patients with acute type B dissections who did not undergo concomitant arch repair had a 4-year survival estimate of 33% +/- 27% (p = not significant versus arch repair). Four other patients with acute type B dissections resulting from an arch tear were managed medically and tended to have a slightly better prognosis (2-year survival estimate of 75% +/- 22% versus 14% +/- 13% for all surgically treated acute type B patients), but again this difference was not statistically significant. Multivariate analysis of the 47 surgical patients revealed that advanced age (p = 0.0008), preoperative dissection complications (p = 0.02), and other coexistent medical problems (p = 0.03) were the only significant, independent determinants of overall mortality. Initial arch repair was not a significant predictor. Nine percent (2/22) of patients with acute type A dissections who initially underwent isolated ascending aortic replacement required subsequent arch replacement; 1 died after reoperation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome: the Los Alamos Conference. On June 12 and 13, 1990 the Los Alamos National Laboratory in cooperation with the New Mexico Department of Health and Environment, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) hosted a conference on the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Fifty presentations covered a variety of important issues which are summarized herein. 
Interleukin-7 differentiates a subgroup of acute lymphoblastic leukemias. The bone marrow stromal cell-derived growth factor interleukin-7 (IL-7) is known to stimulate growth of normal human B-cell precursors. In the present report, we have examined the effect of IL-7 on neoplastic B-cell precursors. Leukemic cells from 20 patients with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were highly purified by removing contaminating T cells and monocytes by rosetting with immunomagnetic beads. IL-7 markedly reduced the DNA synthesis in leukemic cells from three patients. This inhibition of DNA synthesis was accompanied by maturation of the cells, as demonstrated by the induced expression of the differentiation antigens CD19, CD20, CDw75, and surface mu-chain, and a decreased expression of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. By examining G1 parameters, such as MYC, 4F2, and transferrin-receptor levels analyzed by flow cytometry as well as RNA and the cell cycle regulated antigen Ki67, it appeared that the cells were inhibited late in G1. Leukemic cells from the majority of the cases (12 of the 20 patients) responded to IL-7 with enhanced DNA synthesis without detectable maturation, as has been reported for their normal counterparts. Low molecular weight B-cell growth factor greatly potentiated the IL-7-induced growth stimulation of these cells. Thus, we have shown that IL-7 is capable of inhibiting proliferation of leukemic cells isolated from a subgroup of ALLs, and that this growth inhibition is accompanied by maturation of the cells. 
Magnesium inhibits the hypertensive but not the cardiotonic actions of low-dose epinephrine. Intravenous magnesium supplementation is often used to control cardiac arrhythmias and coronary artery vasospasm resulting from disturbances of magnesium homeostasis after coronary artery bypass surgery. Many such patients also require inotropic drug support of depressed myocardial function. However, increased serum magnesium concentrations directly depress cardiac contractility in animals and may interfere with catecholamine actions. To determine whether small intravenous doses of magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) interfere with the cardiotonic actions of epinephrine, we examined the hemodynamic effects of MgSO4 and epinephrine infusion in 17 cardiac surgical patients on their 1st postoperative day in a prospective, controlled study. In 11 patients, infusion of MgSO4 (7-mg.kg-1 bolus followed by 10 mg.kg-1.h-1 as a continuous infusion) increased serum magnesium concentrations by 44% (mean +/- standard error of the mean [SEM] of 0.8 +/- 0.1 to 1.2 +/- 0.1 mM; P less than 0.01) but had no significant effect on heart rate; mean arterial, central venous, or pulmonary arterial occlusion pressures; or cardiac output. Epinephrine infusion (30 ng.kg-1.min-1) significantly increased cardiac index (2.7 +/- 0.1 to 3.1 +/- 0.21.min-1.m-2; P less than 0.05); this effect was not altered by MgSO4 administration (n = 11). However, MgSO4 significantly blunted epinephrine's hypertensive action and prevented a significant increase in mean arterial pressure during concurrent MgSO4-epinephrine administration. Six placebo control patients were given two sequential infusions of epinephrine separated by a placebo infusion to rule out an effect of time on the hemodynamic response to epinephrine. Mean arterial pressure and cardiac index responses to epinephrine were identical before and after placebo infusion. 
Diagnostic importance of the radiographic density of noncalcified breast masses: analysis of 91 lesions. Radiographic density is considered an important feature in the evaluation of noncalcified breast masses, yet no studies assessing its value have been published. The radiographic densities of 91 biopsy-proved, nonfatty, noncalcified breast masses were evaluated by three mammographers. The density determinations made by each observer were compared with the histologic outcome for the 51 benign and 40 malignant lesions. With the kappa statistic, interobserver agreement was relatively poor (0.22 to 0.49), and intraobserver agreement for one expert mammographer was 0.50. When the majority opinion of the mammographers was used, sensitivity was 48%, specificity was 80%, and both positive and negative predictive values were 66%. As a solitary feature in lesion analysis, mammographic density is difficult to assess and is of limited value for the prediction of the benign or malignant nature of noncalcified breast masses. 
Retrograde suction decompression of an ophthalmic artery aneurysm using balloon occlusion. Technical note. A large ophthalmic artery aneurysm was ligated using a modification of the retrograde suction technique described by Batjer and Samson. Temporary proximal occlusion of the internal carotid artery was accomplished with a double-lumen balloon catheter, and distal occlusion was performed with a temporary clip. The aneurysm was collapsed by gentle aspiration through the distal lumen of the balloon catheter. This greatly facilitated dissection and clip ligation of the aneurysm. 
Patterns in visual interpretation of coronary arteriograms as detected by quantitative coronary arteriography. In part 1 of a three-part study, 14 novice readers and 6 experienced cardiologists interpreted phantom images of known stenosis severity. No difference between the interpretations of experienced and novice readers was detectable. Visual estimates of "moderately" severe stenosis were 30% higher than actual percent diameter stenosis. In part 2 of the study, visual interpretation of percent diameter stenosis from 212 stenoses on 241 arteriograms was compared with quantitative coronary arteriographic assessment. The visual analysis overestimated disease severity in arteries with greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis (except for right coronary lesions) and underestimated severity in all arteries with less than 50% diameter stenosis. Of the 241 arteriograms, 40 had quantitative and visual analysis of all three coronary arteries for assessment of significant disease. In only 62% of the cases did visual and quantitative methods agree on the presence of severe disease; visual estimates diagnosed significantly (p less than 0.05) more three-vessel disease. In part 3 of the study, comparison of percent diameter stenosis by visual estimate with quantitative coronary arteriographic assessment before and after balloon angioplasty of 38 stenoses showed that visual interpretation significantly (p less than 0.001) overestimated initial lesion severity and underestimated stenosis severity after angioplasty. 
Headache syndromes as detected by configural frequency analysis. Data on headache symptoms obtained in two samples (N = 422 and 304) by means of questionnaires were subjected to configural frequency analysis (CFA). This not widely-known method tests whether certain symptom combinations appear more often or less often than expected by chance. In both samples symptom combinations corresponding to the syndromes of migraine with aura, migraine without aura and tension headache did indeed occur with significant frequency. The same clear-cut symptom patterns appeared when patients with preceding visual disturbances were excluded from analysis. These results seem to lend strong support to a categorical model of headache, rather than to the concept of headache as a spectrum. 
Phenytoin-induced hemocytophagic histiocytosis indistinguishable from malignant histiocytosis. We have reported a case of phenytoin-induced hemocytophagic histiocytosis indistinguishable on clinical and histopathologic grounds from malignant histiocytosis. We emphasize the need to investigate for microbiologic causes and drug ingestion, even if the diagnosis of malignant histiocytosis is plausible. We think that reactive and malignant histiocytosis are not really two distinct entities with different etiologies, but a continuum of host responses to several insults with different degrees of aggressiveness depending on the host immune status. 
Radiologic findings of clonorchiasis. Clonorchiasis is a trematodiasis caused by chronic infestation of liver flukes, Clonorchis sinensis. The adult flukes reside in the medium-sized and small intrahepatic bile ducts and, occasionally, in the extrahepatic bile ducts, gallbladder, and pancreatic duct. The result is mechanical obstruction, inflammatory reaction, adenomatous hyperplasia, and periductal fibrosis. Signs and symptoms are usually mild and nonspecific, but heavy infestation results in obstructive jaundice. The disease has a close relationship with recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma. In this article, the radiologic findings, including cholangiography, sonography, and CT of clonorchiasis are reviewed in light of the pathophysiology of the disease. The relationship to recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and to cholangiocarcinoma is discussed. 
An immunoinhibitory cell wall glycoprotein (mannan) from Trichophyton rubrum. Trichophyton rubrum causes 90% of chronic dermatophyte infections. Most patients with widespread chronic T. rubrum infection fail to express a delayed hypersensitivity reaction to intradermally injected trichophytin. We propose that cell-mediated immunity to T. rubrum may be suppressed in chronic infections by the mannan cell wall component of the fungus. The proposed suppressive effect of T. rubrum mannan on cell-mediated immunity was tested by measuring the ability of extracted mannan to inhibit lymphoproliferative responses of human mononuclear leukocytes to antigens, mitogens, and an anti-T-cell receptor antibody (anti-CD3) in vitro. Mannan was found to be highly antigenic in two of five donors and weakly antigenic in the other three. Despite its antigenic property, mannan exhibited a dose-related ability to inhibit lymphoproliferation stimulated by other agents including 1) antigens from Candida albicans, T. rubrum, and tetanus toxoid (ID50 = 250 micrograms/ml); 2) anti-CD3 antibody (ID50 = 250 micrograms/ml); and 3) Phaseolus limensis mitogenic lectin (ID50 = 64 micrograms/ml). Mannan added to cultures later than 24 h after initiation had no inhibitory influence, but culture of cells with mannan for a period of 24 h prior to the addition of stimulus enhanced the inhibitory effect of the glycoprotein. Lymphoproliferation in response to recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) was not inhibited. The influence of time of addition of mannan and the failure of mannan to inhibit IL-2-stimulated lymphoproliferation demonstrate that the suppressive effect of mannan must be pharmacologic rather than cytotoxic. The observed ability of T. rubrum cell wall mannan to suppress cell-mediated immune function in vitro may provide an important clue to a mechanism enabling the fungus to avoid elimination in chronically infected patients. 
Polycystic kidneys, pancreatic cysts, and cystadenomatous bile ducts in the oral-facial-digital syndrome type I. Oral-facial-digital syndrome type I is a group of X-linked dominant conditions, lethal in utero in male individuals. Internal anomalies are less well documented than are external findings. We report a case of typical phenotype and absent family history of kidney disease in a 15-year-old white girl (46,XX) who died of renal failure and massive cerebral hemorrhage. At necropsy, the kidneys were greatly enlarged but of fairly normal shape. The cortex was replaced by thin-walled spherical cysts, 0.5 to 2.0 cm in diameter; the majority of the smaller cysts were located deep in the cortex, and the medulla contained lesser numbers of larger cysts. No distal urinary tract obstruction was present. Microdissection revealed cysts and diverticula located in all segments of the nephrons and collecting ducts. Uninvolved nephrons showed diffuse hypertrophy. These findings were correlated with immunoperoxidase stains using peanut lectin, Lotus tetragonolobus agglutinin, antibodies to cytokeratins, stage-specific embryonic antigen-1, Tamm-Horsfall protein, and epithelial membrane antigen. Other visceral anomalies included biliary cystadenomatous proliferation in the liver and pancreatic cysts. The renal changes are similar to those of autosomal dominant (adult-type) polycystic disease. 
Effect of the tibial cut on subsidence following total knee arthroplasty. In 33 total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) using instrumentation designed to cut the tibia with 0 degree posterior slope, ten tibial components demonstrated at least 2 mm of tibial component subsidence. These subsided components were implanted onto tibiae with an average of 8 degrees +/- 2 degrees difference between the preoperative, anatomic posterior slope and their postoperative posterior slope. The remaining 23 components, without subsidence, were implanted onto tibiae cut within 2 degrees +/- 2 degrees of their anatomic slope. To help understand these clinical observations, a laboratory study was performed to compare the load carrying capacity and the stiffness of tibial subchondral bone following two types of tibial cuts: one made perpendicular to the long axis of the tibia and the other made parallel to the articular surface of the tibia. Mock tibial baseplates mounted on paired cadaver tibiae were loaded in compression and force displacement curves were recorded. Tibiae cut parallel to the surface exhibited 40% greater load carrying capacity and 70% greater stiffness than the paired tibiae cut perpendicular to the long axis. The biomechanical data of this study indicated that cutting the tibia perpendicular to the long axis results in weaker bone that may be inadequate to support a tibial component. This may explain the higher incidence of clinical subsidence if the tibial cut is not made approximately parallel to the anatomic slope. 
Finapres: a noninvasive device to monitor blood pressure. Often, obstetric patients are not evaluated in preliminary studies during the development of new medical devices. The purpose of this study was to compare the Finapres digital probe with oscillometric and arterial line devices for recording blood pressures in low- and high-risk pregnant women. A total of 38 women were studied, including 24 with pregnancy-induced hypertension, two with chronic hypertension, two with cardiac disease, and ten who had no risk factors but requested epidural catheter placement. The comparison of Finapres or oscillometric recordings with direct arterial values confirmed that systolic recordings were imprecise for both devices (r = 0.80 and r = 0.64, respectively). Diastolic recordings (Korotkoff sound, phase 4) from the Finapres were accurate compared with the arterial values (r = 0.84). The Finapres performed at least as reliably as the oscillometric monitor in assessing blood pressure in our pregnant population and provided continuous measurements. When very accurate systolic recordings are needed, arterial catheter placement may be necessary. 
Some perspectives on peptic ulcer. In this article, the author comments on the following topics: whether peptic ulcer is a disease or just the sign of another process; whether the crater has a multifactorial origin; the ubiquity of Helicobacter pylori and the conclusion that a specific strain will doubtless prove to be the cause of some, but not all, ulcers; the inherent definitional problem of "nonulcer dyspepsia"; and the controversy over how much gastric acid needs to be reduced to speed the healing of peptic ulcer. 
Hepatocyte proliferation in stepwise development of experimental liver cell cancer. Cell proliferation is the most central and key phenotypic property of cancer including hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatocyte proliferation is central not only at the late steps in carcinogenesis, the cancer, but at the earliest known step, initiation. Compensatory or regenerative hepatocyte proliferation is essential to initiation with chemical carcinogens but primary hyperplasia is ineffective. During promotion, hepatocyte proliferation is the major change seen as clonal proliferation to generate nodules occurs. During progression, autonomous hepatocyte proliferation balanced by cell loss makes its appearance. This continues in a balanced fashion with only a slight excess of proliferation over loss until the earlier steps in malignancy at which time the balance is disrupted. 
Splenosis: an unusual cause of intraabdominal hemorrhage. A 31-year-old female presented to the emergency department with an acute onset of severe abdominal pain. She developed hypovolemic shock from an intra-abdominal bleed. At laparotomy she was found to be bleeding from two areas of splenosis on the uterine ligament. The patient had sustained a ruptured spleen 22 years prior and had no symptomatology from her areas of splenosis. A short review of splenosis is presented. 
Streptokinase and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) are equally effective in treating acute myocardial infarction. In recent trials, patients with myocardial infarction who received either recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or streptokinase showed essentially no difference in the amount of myocardial salvage, in mortality reduction, or in the incidence of bleeding complications. These findings thus failed to fulfill the expectation that rt-PA would be twice as effective as streptokinase as a thrombolytic agent. The basis for this mistaken prediction was an unfortunate overemphasis on an inadequate surrogate endpoint, namely, the patency or reperfusion rate at 90 minutes after the start of therapy. Using the 90-minute patency or reperfusion rate as an endpoint has several serious limitations. First, it is an observation made at only one point in time during a dynamic process that may change even during the infusion proper. Second, a single view at 90 minutes completely disregards the possibility of subsequent reocclusion which often occurs within 1 hour after treatment. Third, an image at 90 minutes is more a reflection of the speed of thrombolysis than of whether lysis will eventually occur; the pace of clot lysis depends on both the agent used and the age of the thrombus. Fourth, lysis at 90 minutes is of minimal relevance for myocardial salvage unless observed within the time frame when infarction size can be limited significantly, which is generally less than 4 hours between symptom onset and the time that reperfusion is accomplished. Fifth, a stable state of vessel patency is meaningful for mortality reduction even if stabilization occurs after completion of the infarction. Such "late," but lasting, patency is a critical component of the "open vessel" principle and explains, at least in part, the survival benefit that accrues to patients treated even 24 hours after the onset of symptoms. There is currently no evidence that rt-PA has a more beneficial effect on survival or function than does streptokinase or any other plasminogen activator used in treating acute myocardial infarction; nor is there any evidence that patients who receive rt-PA therapy show a decreased incidence of bleeding complications compared with those who receive streptokinase, despite the relative fibrinogen-sparing attribute of rt-PA. Given the poor predictive value of the 90-minute angiogram for ultimate clinical advantage of one agent over another, studies that are limited to this endpoint are of marginal use in evaluating treatment regimens used in mortality studies. The best evidence to date indicates that streptokinase and rt-PA are of equivalent value for survival after acute myocardial infarction, a conclusion that can be justifiably challenged only with a valid mortality study. 
Successful transcatheter embolization of pseudoaneurysm associated with pancreatic pseudocyst. Hemorrhage into a pancreatic pseudocyst is a rare event, but is the most rapidly lethal complication of chronic pancreatitis. Visceral-vessel aneurysms are an unexpectedly common finding in arteriography of patients with chronic pancreatitis. This case report describes bleeding from an anterior superior pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm, caused by chronic pancreatitis. The aneurysm was successfully treated by embolization with a steel coil. 
Concealed rhythms by double ventricular parasystole. Electrocardiograms taken from 11 patients in sinus rhythm with ventricular ectopic rhythms from two different foci were analyzed to find the number of sinus beats, S, between the ectopic rhythms (S values). Three out of 11 patients had the S values typical for concealed ectopic rhythms. One of them had concealed bigeminy of 2n-1 form that occasionally shifted to 2n form. Following the shift, S values of 2n-1 form were always achieved by the occurrence of double ventricular ectopic rhythms in succession. Concealed trigeminy of 3n and 3n-2 form was seen in the other two patients. Double ventricular ectopic rhythms had bizarre abnormal QRS complexes of two different morphologies and were inscribed in opposite directions. Ectopic rhythms in each case had parasystolic characteristics. These observations suggest bifocal automaticity as a mechanism for bidirectional ventricular tachycardia. 
Cerebral vasculopathy associated with collateralization resembling moya moya phenomenon and with anti-Ro/SS-A and anti-La/SS-B antibodies. We describe a 48-year-old, previously healthy, anti-Ro/SS-A and anti-La/SS-B antibody positive black woman with negative risk factors for atherosclerosis, who developed mental status and personality changes over a 6-12-month period, and progressive cortical blindness over a 2-week period. Angiographic and computed axial tomographic studies of the brain demonstrated multiple large areas of infarction correlating with stenosis and occlusions of the internal carotid and posterior cerebral arteries. Moya moya-like findings were prominent radiographically. Results of angiographic, computed tomographic, and magnetic resonance imaging studies were interpreted as being compatible with large, medium, and small vessel disease, most likely a vasculitis. 
Myocardial and aerobic requirements for an upper body exerciser: implications for cardiac rehabilitation. To assess the cardiorespiratory, hemodynamic, and electrocardiograph (ECG) responses to an upper body exercise device, we studied ten cardiac men (mean age +/- SD = 58.0 +/- 6.5 years) who performed three five-minute exercise bouts at metronome settings of 20, 50, and 80 clicks per minute. Operation of the device involved shuttling a plastic buoy on two 6-m waxed ropes between two persons. Aerobic requirements were generally appropriate for arm training, corresponding to mean values of 5.3, 7.0, and 10.1 ml.kg-1.min-1 at the three progressive metronome settings. Perceived exertion (Borg, 6 to 20 scale) at these work rates was 8.3, 10.4, and 14.6, whereas average heart rate and systolic blood pressure responses were 77, 85, and 114 beats.min-1 and 145, 158, and 175 mmHg, respectively. Continuous ECG monitoring during upper body exercise revealed no significant ST-segment depression or serious arrhythmias. The device appears to be a safe and effective complement to a cardiac exercise training program. 
Carcinoma and DNA aneuploidy in Crohn's colitis--a histological and flow cytometric study. Twenty four patients with longstanding colonic Crohn's disease were examined prospectively with colonoscopy and multiple biopsy sampling in order to detect histological dysplasia or abnormal aneuploid DNA content, or both. Biopsy specimens were taken from 10 predetermined locations in the colon and rectum. No patient had definite dysplasia but three displayed DNA aneuploidy (12.5%), and one of these subsequently developed a carcinoma (Dukes' C at operation) in the ascending colon. No concomitant dysplasia was detected but the carcinoma as well as other parts of the mucosa were DNA aneuploid. It is concluded that dysplasia is rare in patients with Crohn's colitis, but findings of DNA aneuploidy warrant vigilance in follow up as this may indicate impending carcinoma. Further prospective studies are needed before the predictive value of DNA aneuploidy can be determined and before general recommendations of colonoscopic surveillance, as in longstanding ulcerative colitis, can be made. 
Ocutome lensectomy: results and complications. We describe the results and the complications encountered in 69 lensectomies performed via a limbal approach with the Ocutome vitrectomy instrument, in which it was the intention at surgery to maintain the integrity of the posterior capsule. After operation 87% improved in visual acuity, and 68% achieved 6/12 or better. The main early complications encountered were perioperative rupture of the posterior capsule and iris damage. The main late complications were postoperative thickening of the posterior capsule, retinal detachment, and bullous keratopathy. Of the eyes in which the posterior capsule remained intact after operation 17% developed thickening of the posterior capsule to a degree that required capsulotomy over a mean follow-up period of 50 months. 
Avascular necrosis of bone in children undergoing allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Avascular necrosis of bone (AVNB) is reported in two children after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Preparation therapy for transplantation included cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation. Corticosteroids, cyclosporine A, and methotrexate were used for graft-versus-host-disease prophylaxis. The possible role of combination therapy in development of AVNB is discussed, but a direct relationship with single agents was not found. However, an early diagnosis is important to institute conservative treatment and prevent irreversible damage to affected joints. Magnetic resonance imaging was found to be more sensitive than plain radiography in early detection of AVNB. 
Cerebral dural sinus thrombosis. Cerebral dural sinus thrombosis is an unusual syndrome in which a patient presents with a severe headache that may be associated with diverse neurologic and physical findings. The case of a 31-year-old woman with headache, vomiting, generalized tonic-clonic seizure, and subsequent dense hemiplegia is presented. The patient was diagnosed as having a cerebral dural sinus thrombosis, but only after the diagnosis was missed initially. The syndrome may be difficult to detect because it can mimic several other entities. There are several known or suspected predisposing factors. The syndrome, diagnostic modalities, and therapeutic options are reviewed. 
Isradipine, a calcium antagonist, in the control of hypertension following coronary artery-bypass surgery. Arterial hypertension is common after coronary artery-bypass grafting (CABG) surgery and may lead to postoperative complications. Therefore, the effects of the calcium antagonist isradipine were studied in 10 postoperative CABG patients who had a mean arterial pressure (MAP) above 100 mm Hg. Isradipine, given as a continuous infusion, reduced MAP to the range of 85 +/- 5 mm Hg in all patients within 15 min. Systemic vascular resistance fell and cardiac output increased in all patients. A slight increase in heart rate was seen in some, but not all, patients. There were no adverse effects. In conclusion, isradipine appears to be a useful agent in the treatment of postoperative hypertension following CABG surgery. 
Pulmonary vascular distensibility of arterial, middle, and venous regions in newborn lambs. The pulmonary circulation in the adult is characterized by being relatively distensible, but whether the newborn lung shares this feature is less certain. We perfused isolated lungs treated with indomethacin from lambs of four ages (less than 1, 2-4, 12-14, and 30-32 days) to determine the effects of increasing left atrial pressure on the pulmonary vascular pressures measured by vascular inflow and outflow occlusion. An index of pulmonary vascular distensibility was assessed by comparing the slope of the pulmonary vascular pressure at the upstream end of a region as a function of the pressure at the downstream end of the region. A vascular distensibility index (VDI) of 1 indicates a rigid nondistensible system, whereas a VDI less than 1 indicates some degree of distensibility. During normoxia, lungs from all age groups were relatively indistensible as determined by VDI for the total vasculature (VDItotal) as well as for the different regions based on occlusion pressures (VDIarterial, VDImiddle, and VDIvenous). There were significant effects of age on the VDItotal, with decreases in the normoxic values occurring over the first 12-14 days of age, indicating an increase in pulmonary vascular distensibility. Only the VDIvenous was similarly affected by increasing neonatal age. Hypoxia significantly reduced the VDItotal in these same age groups. In addition, hypoxia, which increased the pressure gradients of the arterial and middle regions, significantly increased the VDIarterial in the youngest and oldest age groups but significantly decreased the VDImiddle at all ages by approximately 50%. In summary, we observed age-related changes in the vascular distensibility of the pulmonary circulation, with the VDItotal decreasing with increasing postnatal age. 
Congenital malignant melanoma of the eye. Twenty-three cases of congenital malignant melanoma have previously been reported. Here the authors report the first case of a congenital malignant melanoma arising in the eye. A newborn girl had a large pigmented ocular tumor, hepatomegaly, and multiple pigmented skin and choroidal lesions. The histopathologic diagnosis was of a malignant melanoma with hepatic metastases. The skin and choroidal lesions were considered to be congenital melanocytic nevi. The most plausible pathogenetic link between these two conditions was that the malignancy had arisen as a second-hit mutation within a choroidal congenital melanocytic nevus. Despite widespread metastases the baby, treated by surgery and chemotherapy, survives in good health, aged 2 years, 10 months. 
Association of nm23-H1 allelic deletions with distant metastases in colorectal carcinoma. A prospective study analysed the prognostic value of nm23-H1 allelic deletions in colorectal cancer. Of 21 patients with no evidence of distant metastases at initial operation, 11 showed nm23-H1 allelic deletions (including 1 homozygous deletion); 10 had no nm23-H1 deletions. After median follow-up of 25 months, distant metastases had developed in 8 of 11 (73%) patients with nm23-H1 deletions but in only 2 of 10 (20%) without nm23-H1 deletions (p less than 0.03). Tests with probe YNZ 22.1, near p53, showed no significant association with distant metastases. nm23-H1 may be, or may be located near, a late-acting suppressor gene in colorectal carcinoma, in which deletions may have prognostic value. 
Suppression by traumatic brain injury of spontaneous hemodynamic recovery from hemorrhagic shock in rats. The effects of brain trauma on cardiovascular and endocrine responses to hemorrhage were investigated. Forty anesthetized rats were randomly assigned to one of four groups of 10 rats each: a control group (Group C): a group with induction of hemorrhage at 16.2 ml/kg/10 min (Group H); a group with fluid-percussion brain injury at a peak pressure of 1.7 atm and an impulse duration of 25 msec (Group T); and a group receiving hemorrhagic shock following brain trauma (Group TH). Group C and T rats showed no significant alterations in cardiovascular function. At the end of hemorrhage there were no significant differences between Groups TH and H in the nadirs of mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) (mean values +/- standard error of the mean: 42 +/- 2 vs. 40 +/- 4 mm Hg) and stroke volume index (SVI) (0.61 +/- 0.11 vs. 0.66 +/- 0.10 ml/bt/kg); however, 1 hour post-hemorrhage recovery was blunted in Group TH compared to Group H (MABP 56 +/- 4 vs. 65 +/- 3 mm Hg; cardiac index 182 +/- 15 vs. 220 +/- 15 ml/min/kg; and SVI 0.71 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.81 +/- 0.06 ml/bt/kg). Since the two groups showed no significant differences in heart rate, preload (central venous pressure), and afterload (systemic vascular resistance), the reduced cardiac index recovery in Group TH is believed due to the attenuation of cardiac contractile performance. The Group TH preparation potentiated hormonal responses to hemorrhage with significantly higher epinephrine and aldosterone levels than in Group H. Brain trauma enhanced the norepinephrine response to hemorrhage, even at an injury level that by itself did not result in an increase in this hormone. Group TH rats also had significantly lower blood pH and HCO3 levels. The data suggest that brain trauma suppresses MABP and cardiac index recovery after hemorrhage mainly by inhibiting cardiac contractile performance, probably due to high catecholamine levels and severe metabolic acidosis. 
Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of thyroid nodules. A cost-effective diagnostic plan. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy is a safe and accurate method for diagnosing thyroid nodules. Personnel who have experience with the aspiration technique and with the cytologic classification of specimens are crucial to accurate results. One important advantage of using fine-needle biopsy to initially screen patients with nodules is that it can save substantially on healthcare resources. 
Return of interdigestive motor complex after abdominal surgery. End of postoperative ileus? Gastrointestinal mechanical activity was studied in 13 patients after different surgical procedures in a fasted and fed state and after pharmacological stimulation. Mechanical activity was recorded by means of a multi-pressure sensor probe placed intraoperatively into the jejunum. Abdominal surgery abolished normal motility only for a short period of time. The time for the reappearance of regular recurring activity fronts varied with the type of the surgical procedure from 3 hr after cholecystectomy to the sixth postoperative day after colon resection. The fed pattern occurred after the first postoperative interdigestive motor complex in all experiments. Stimulation was observed with ceruletide, which induced contractile activity in the small intestine during postoperative ileus. No coordinated caudad propagating activity was observed. The postoperative interdigestive motor complex did not correlate in time with the first passage of flatus and stool in our patients. Thus, the restoration of motility in the small intestine did not coincide with the clinical relief from the so-called "physiological" postoperative ileus. 
The medial temporal lobe memory system. Studies of human amnesia and studies of an animal model of human amnesia in the monkey have identified the anatomical components of the brain system for memory in the medial temporal lobe and have illuminated its function. This neural system consists of the hippocampus and adjacent, anatomically related cortex, including entorhinal, perirhinal, and parahippocampal cortices. These structures, presumably by virtue of their widespread and reciprocal connections with neocortex, are essential for establishing long-term memory for facts and events (declarative memory). The medial temporal lobe memory system is needed to bind together the distributed storage sites in neocortex that represent a whole memory. However, the role of this system is only temporary. As time passes after learning, memory stored in neocortex gradually becomes independent of medial temporal lobe structures. 
Dysfunction of the beta- and alpha-adrenergic systems in a model of congestive heart failure. The pacing-overdrive dog. The functional integrity of the beta- and alpha-adrenergic stimulatory pathways in a rapid ventricular pacing model of congestive heart failure in dogs was investigated; normal dogs served as controls. Total beta-adrenergic receptor density was 35% lower (p less than 0.01) in the pacing-overdrive dogs, and the beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated stimulation of adenylate cyclase (Vmax) was found to be 68% and 72% lower (p less than 0.01) in the left and right ventricles of the paced dogs. In addition, the basal adenylate cyclase activity was found to be 56% and 68% lower (p less than 0.01) in the left and right ventricles of the failing heart. Similarly, the Vmax of 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate (GppNHp) and forskolin stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity was significantly lower, 70% and 55%, respectively (p less than 0.01), in both ventricles of the paced dogs. However, although the concentration yielding half-maximal velocity for beta-agonist and GppNHp stimulation of adenylate cyclase was similar in both groups, that for forskolin stimulation of the enzyme was significantly increased (p less than 0.01). Pertussis toxin-mediated ADP-ribosylation of membranes from control and failing hearts revealed a significant decrease in the inhibitory guanine nucleotide binding protein content (48 +/- 9%, p less than 0.01) in the hearts of the paced dogs. Moreover, although the pertussis toxin treatment increased the basal and the forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in both normal and failing heart membranes, the adenylate cyclase activity remained significantly depressed in the failing heart after pertussis toxin treatment (p less than 0.01). Consistent with the depressed adenylate cyclase activity, mechanical studies on isolated papillary muscles and trabeculae revealed a decrease in baseline total tension (from 7.0 +/- 0.7 to 3.8 +/- 0.4 g/mm2, p less than 0.01) and dT/dt (from 26 +/- 8 to 13 +/- 1 g/mm2/sec, p less than 0.01) in the pacing-overdrive model. Tension generation and dT/dt observed in the paced dogs in response to increasing concentrations of forskolin demonstrated a rightward shift in the dose-response curve and a decrease in maximal forskolin stimulation (p less than 0.01). Similarly, maximal tension and dT/dt in the presence of isoproterenol was significantly lower than in the normal dogs (p less than 0.01). The decrease in beta-adrenergic responsiveness was accompanied by a decrease and rightward shift in alpha 1-adrenergic responsiveness (increase in tension was 1.1 +/- 0.1 g/mm2 in paced dogs versus 2.1 +/- 0.1 g/mm2 in controls, p less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
No effect of zidovudine on hepatitis B virus replication in homosexual men with symptomatic HIV-1 infection. Zidovudine triphosphate inhibits the hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA polymerase (DNAp) in vitro. Serial measurements of serum HBV DNAp activity and HBV DNA were made in 14 consecutive male homosexual patients starting zidovudine for symptomatic HIV-1 infection. Median duration of treatment was 15 weeks (range 2-72). In the 13 patients with detectable DNAp/DNA pre-treatment, no significant change in either measure of viral replication was observed during the first 16 weeks of treatment compared with the 13 weeks prior to treatment. The lack of response may be due to the opposing effect of immunosuppression, or to a failure of in vivo activity. 
Growth prognosis and growth after menarche in primary hypothyroidism. The long term growth of 20 girls and nine boys with juvenile primary hypothyroidism was studied until they reached final height. At diagnosis the girls had a mean age of 8.8 years (range 3.0-13.0); mean bone age was 5.4 years. The mean age of the boys at diagnosis was 9.5 years (range 3.7-14.2); mean bone age was 6.3 years. The patients were treated with thyroxine 100 micrograms/m2/day and serum thyroxine concentrations were maintained in the normal range. During treatment the rate of skeletal maturation exceeded the change in chronological age. Initial mean height SD score for bone age before treatment in the girls was +0.59 and after 11 years of treatment fell to -0.55 Mean height SD score for bone age in the boys decreased from +1.6 to -0.87 during treatment. In the girls the onset of puberty was 1.2 years later than the normal population but the duration of puberty was reduced. Mean age (SD) of menarche was 13.8 (1.7) years. The pattern of growth in girls with treated hypothyroidism was abnormal as growth continued after menarche, at a time when normal girls have almost stopped growing. During the second year after menarche our patients still had a mean growth velocity of 4.1 cm/year. Our data suggest that juvenile primary hypothyroidism results in a permanent height deficit. In addition, there is a loss of the normal harmony between growth and sexual maturation in girls, despite adequate treatment, in that growth continues for much longer after menarche than in normal girls. 
Intraperitoneal hemorrhage from hepatocellular carcinoma: emergency chemoembolization or embolization. From 1982 to 1990, 38 patients with intraperitoneal hemorrhage from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) underwent treatment with emergency embolization with or without anticancer drug and iodized oil. Before emergency embolization, 24 patients had a serum total bilirubin value of 3.0 mg/dL or less (group A) and 14 patients had hyperbilirubinemia, with a serum bilirubin level greater than 3.0 mg/dL (group B). Successful hemostasis was achieved in all patients. The mean length of survival was 165 days in group A and 13 days in group B. A significant correlation (P less than .00003) between serum bilirubin level and prognosis was obtained. While tumor thrombus in the portal vein made the prognosis poor, there was no significant difference in prognosis between groups with and without tumor thrombus (P = .145). Emergency embolization is an effective treatment in patients with intraperitoneal hemorrhage from HCC. The prognosis for patients with HCC depends on the serum bilirubin level before embolization. 
Racial (black-white) differences in serum lipoprotein (a) distribution and its relation to parental myocardial infarction in children. Bogalusa Heart Study. BACKGROUND. The value of lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] in the prediction of coronary artery disease risk very early in life remains to be established in different racial groups. METHODS AND RESULTS. Serum Lp(a) distribution and its relation to parental histories of myocardial infarction were examined in 2,438 children (8-17 years old) from a biracial community. Parental myocardial infarction was used as a surrogate measure of future risk of disease in the offspring. Lp(a) levels averaged 1.7-fold higher in blacks than in whites (p less than 0.0001). A small but significant sex difference (females greater than males, p less than 0.05) was seen in both races. Race was the only independent variable that contributed appreciably (9%) to the variability of Lp(a) in serum. White children with parental myocardial infarction (n = 90) had increased levels of Lp(a) compared with those without parental myocardial infarction (22.4 versus 17.1 mg/dl, p less than 0.01). Furthermore, among white children, the prevalence of parental myocardial infarction was higher in those with Lp(a) levels of more than 25 mg/dl than in those with values of 25 mg/dl or less (9.5% versus 5.4%, p less than 0.01). In contrast, the relation of Lp(a) to parental myocardial infarction was not seen in black children. No associations were observed between parental myocardial infarction and serum levels of any of the lipids or lipoprotein cholesterol classes in children of either race. CONCLUSIONS. Serum Lp(a) levels may prove valuable in the assessment of coronary artery disease risk early in life among white populations. These findings also emphasize the need to evaluate the atherogenic potential of Lp(a) in different racial groups. 
Brucella meningoencephalitis associated with cerebrospinal fluid shunt in a child: case report. Brucella meningoencephalitis is rare in young children. We describe a patient who developed Brucella meningoencephalitis at the age of 20 months while he had a ventriculoperitoneal shunt in situ for treatment of hydrocephalus. This patient was treated with streptomycin and rifampicin. The shunt was left in situ, and all the clinical and laboratory test abnormalities subsided with this management. We propose that in a patient with Brucella meningoencephalitis, the cerebrospinal fluid shunt system can be left in situ and treatment with appropriate combination of antibiotics should prove to be successful. 
Posterior chamber IOL implantation with suboptimal posterior capsular support. A posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC/IOL) was implanted in 24 patients with suboptimal posterior capsular support due to preoperative or intraoperative rupture of the posterior capsule or zonules in which at least six clock hours of peripheral zonular support remained. The PC/IOLs were implanted, with ciliary sulcus haptic placement, with special attention to sulcus fixation of the haptics over the zone of residual zonular support. All of the IOLs have remained centered after a mean follow-up 10.5 months. We conclude that a PC/IOL can be successfully implanted and its position maintained if at least six clock hours of peripheral zonules remain. 
Anti-V region antibodies as "almost clonotypic" reagents for the study of cutaneous T cell lymphomas and leukemias. Despite recent advances in the understanding of normal T lymphocyte immunobiology, there has been little progress in characterizing the non-HTLV cutaneous T-cell lymphomas and leukemias (CTCL) Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary syndrome. The two major impediments to in vitro studies of these malignancies have been the contamination of CTCL cells with normal T cells and the inability to induce a vigorous proliferative response or establish long-term cultures with standard T-cell mitogens. The ideal reagent for identifying CTCL cells in a given patient would be tumor specific. Although a monoclonal antibody to the clonotypic antigen receptor on CTCL cells would approach this ideal, it is not currently feasible to generate such antibodies for each CTCL patient. As a compromise, we chose to test an "almost clonotypic" reagent by examining whether monoclonal antibodies directed at the variable (V) region of the T-cell antigen receptor could be applied to CTCL. We identified three Sezary patients, who by standard T-cell phenotype and Southern blot analysis for clonality had a virtually pure peripheral blood population of leukemic cells (PBL). We then screened the PBL of these patients with a panel of seven commercially available monoclonal anti-V region antibodies and found one patients' cells reacted greater than 99% with alpha V beta 5. The other patients' cells were non-reactive. In addition, we utilized a solid-phase system to cross-link V beta 5 on the one CTCL patients' PBL cells, and found that they proliferated vigorously in the presence of 10 units of IL-2 and IL-4. Parallel cultures have been maintained for one month by restimulation twice a week. These findings suggest that anti-V region antibodies should prove useful for investigating the immunobiology of CTCL. 
Roentgenographic dimensions of the upper airway in snoring patients with and without obstructive sleep apnea. The purpose of this study was to examine whether a simple test, such as routine roentgenographic views of the upper airway, is useful in identifying anatomic narrowing of the airway in patients with sleep apnea. To accomplish this, we prospectively studied a group of 117 patients (95 male and 22 female subjects) referred for evaluation of heavy snoring and possible obstructive sleep apnea. All patients had full nocturnal polysomnography, including measurements of snoring. Lateral view of the airway obtained after swallowing contrast material was used to measure pharyngeal diameters at three sites along the airway. All measurements were performed with the patients standing and supine. We used three different definitions of sleep apnea (apnea/hypopnea index of 10, 20, and 40), and compared airway diameters between the apneic and nonapneic snorers. Only when sleep apnea was defined as greater than 40 apneas plus hypopneas per hour of sleep was there a significant difference in airway diameter at the tip of the palate and 1 cm distal to it between apneic and nonapneic snorers. Both groups of patients demonstrated a significant reduction in the retropalatal distance on assumption of the supine posture. Stepwise, forward, multiple linear regression analysis showed that the retropalatal distance and airway diameter at the tip of the palate and 1 cm distal to it were significant predictors of snoring, but not apnea. We conclude that (1) airway diameters account for some of the variability in snoring, and (2) they do not differentiate between apneic and nonapneic snorers. 
Liver function tests abnormalities in patients with inflammatory bowel disease receiving artificial nutrition: a prospective randomized study of total enteral nutrition vs total parenteral nutrition. Liver and biliary abnormalities are well-known complications of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It has been suggested that using total parenteral nutrition (TPN) may further impair liver function in these patients; this seems not to be so with total enteral nutrition (TEN). However, prospective trials comparing the incidence of liver function test (LFT) abnormalities with either TPN or TEN have not been carried out. Twenty-nine IBD inpatients with normal LFT, randomized to receive either TEN with a polymeric diet or isocaloric, isonitrogenous "all-in-one" TPN because of protein-energy malnutrition and/or severe disease, were included in the study. Sixteen patients (five with ulcerative colitis and 11 with Crohn's disease) received TEN, and 13 patients (eight ulcerative colitis and five Crohn's disease) were on TPN. All patients were on systemic steroids, and nine of them were on oral metronidazole. Both groups were homogeneous regarding age, sex, diagnosis, disease activity, nutritional status, daily nutrient supply, and days on artificial nutrition. Serum albumin levels significantly increased with TEN (32 +/- 1 to 38.2 +/- 1.6 g/liter, p less than 0.01), but not with TPN (32.1 +/- 2.2 to 33.9 +/- 1.4 g/liter, NS). Clinical improvement occurred in both groups of patients as shown by the change in the disease activity indexes. In all cases, measurements of serum alkaline phosphatase, serum bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and gamma-glutamyltransferase were performed weekly. There were no significant differences in the initial LFT between both groups. 
Superoxide dismutase in psoriasis, squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell epithelioma: an immunohistochemical study. Monoclonal antibodies against human Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) and Mn-SOD were used to stain frozen sections of normal and abnormal human skin. In normal human epidermis, the Cu,Zn-SOD antibody almost exclusively stained the basal cells. Mn-SOD antibody weakly stained the whole of the epidermis but more predominantly the basal cell layer. In psoriasis, Cu,Zn-SOD antibody mainly stained the basal cells of the lowest parts of the elongated rete ridges. Basal cells corresponding to the tip of the dermal papillae were weakly stained. Mn-SOD staining was considerably decreased in the psoriatic epidermis. In squamous cell carcinoma, staining with both Cu,Zn-SOD and Mn-SOD antibodies was decreased, and single cells positive for Cu,Zn-SOD were scattered throughout the tumour nests. In basal cell epithelioma, Cu,Zn-SOD staining was intense and diffusely distributed throughout the tumour nests, while Mn-SOD staining was absent. 
Time trends in incidence rates of acute, non-traumatic extremity ischaemia: a population-based study during a 19-year period. Time trends in the occurrence of acute limb ischaemia were studied from 1965 to 1983 in a defined geographical area in Sweden. Data were obtained from a computerized register which covers all instances of inpatient care for a population of 1.3 million. Analysis based on 5394 first admissions for acute arterial occlusion revealed that the annual number increased by 2.7 per cent yearly in women and 3.9 per cent in men whereas the age-adjusted incidence remained stable for women and increased by 2.6 per cent yearly for men. A study of 1189 patients who underwent surgical procedures showed that the annual number of embolectomy procedures increased 7.6 per cent for females and 8.6 per cent for males. The corresponding age-adjusted incidence rose annually by 3.0 per cent for women and by 7.5 per cent for men. The introduction of the Fogarty catheter and an increasing interest in vascular surgery may have contributed to the increasing rates of operations during the period of study. 
Trypanosoma cruzi: a carbohydrate epitope defined by a monoclonal antibody as a possible marker of the acute phase of human Chagas' disease. An IgM monoclonal antibody (MAb) against a carbohydrate epitope present in Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigote excretory-secretory antigens and expressed by different developmental stages of the parasite (epimastigote, trypomastigote and intracellular amastigote) was linked to a solid phase matrix and used as an antigen-capture antibody. Human serum complexes containing the epitope were then detected by using specific secondary antibodies against human immunoglobulin isotypes. Results of detection of IgM, IgG, and IgA serum complexes (SC) containing a T. cruzi polypeptide epitope showed that SC could be detected in 69% of the 13 Chagasic acute phase sera studied with IgG, in 84% with IgM, and in 75% with IgA. Only 16% (IgG-SC), 8% (IgM-SC), and 10% (IgA-SC) of chronic sera from 50 patients were positive. No patients with toxoplasmosis or rheumatoid factor were positive. Of the 11 leishmaniasis sera studied, four had IgG-SC, two had IgA-SC, and five had IgM-SC. Of the eight Yanomamo Indians infected by Onchocerca volvulus, three were found to have IgG-SC, two had IgM-SC, and two had IgA-SC. Thirteen sera from healthy individuals living in an endemic area were also studied. One subject had IgG IgM and IgA-SC. The results presented in this study show for the first time, the specific detection of IgM, IgG, and IgA immune complexes using a MAb against T. cruzi. The presence of the epitope in association with IgM antibodies in sera from patients with the acute phase of the disease suggests that this antigen(s) carrying the epitope that reacts with the MAb could be a marker(s) of active infection. In addition, the specificity of the serum complex capture assay allowed the detection of Chagas' disease in two different endemic areas (Argentina and Venezuela). 
Primary tracheojejunal shunt operation for voice restoration following pharyngolaryngoesophagectomy. A primary tracheojejunal shunt operation was performed for voice restoration following pharyngolaryngoesophagectomy with free jejunum reconstruction for advanced hypopharyngeal cancer. A fistula was created between the membranous part of the trachea and the lower part of the transplanted jejunum. The membranous part of the trachea was tubed to construct the tracheojejunal shunt. All three patients who had the tracheojejunal shunt operation retained phonatory function. Pitch formation was seen in the voice waveform with use of the tracheojejunal shunt. No leakage was seen at all during deglutition and a swallowing function was obtained in all patients who had the tracheojejunal shunt. 
Late potentials are unaltered by ventricular filling pressure reduction in heart failure. Exacerbation of heart failure may increase susceptibility to arrhythmias. Therefore tests to assess the risk of arrhythmia, performed after hemodynamic improvement, may be of limited value. To determine whether hemodynamic improvement alters ventricular late potentials detected by signal-averaged ECG, we studied 27 consecutive patients with dilated heart failure (left ventricular ejection fraction 0.20 +/- 0.06, 15 with coronary artery disease) before and 3 +/- 2 days after tailored vasodilator and diuretic therapy reduced ventricular filling pressures. QRS duration, terminal QRS amplitude (root mean square [RMS]), and low-amplitude (less than 40 microV) signal (LAS) duration were determined by an automated algorithm from the vector magnitude of the QRS high-pass filtered at 25 Hz and at 40 Hz. Despite marked decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge (27 +/- 7 to 16 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) and right atrial (13 +/- 7 to 7 +/- 4 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) pressures and a 20% increase in cardiac output, there was not a significant change in QRS duration, RMS, or LAS. Before and after therapy late potentials, defined as abnormal QRS duration RMS, or LAS, were present in 14 (52%) patients with filtering at 25 Hz and in 22 (81%) patients with filtering at 40 Hz. The signal-averaged ECG after hemodynamic improvement predicted the results during exacerbation of heart failure in all patients. Thus in patients with advanced heart failure the signal-averaged ECG obtained after hemodynamic improvement reflects the findings during exacerbation of heart failure. 
A novel cyclin encoded by a bcl1-linked candidate oncogene We have previously identified a candidate oncogene (PRAD1 or D11S287E) on chromosome 11q13 which is clonally rearranged with the parathyroid hormone locus in a subset of benign parathyroid tumours. We now report that a cloned human placental PRAD1 complementary DNA encodes a protein of 295 amino acids with sequence similarities to the cyclins. Cyclins can form a complex with and activate p34cdc2 protein kinase, thereby regulating progress through the cell cycle. PRAD 1 messenger RNA levels vary dramatically across the cell cycle in HeLa cells. Addition of the PRAD1 protein to interphase clam embryo lysates containing inactive p34cdc2 kinase and lacking endogenous cyclins allows it to be isolated using beads bearing p13suc1, a yeast protein that binds cdc2 and related kinases with high affinity and coprecipitates kinase-associated proteins. Addition of PRAD1 also induces phosphorylation of histone H1, a preferred substrate of cdc2. These data suggest that PRAD1 encodes a novel cyclin whose overexpression may play an important part in the development of various tumours with abnormalities in 11q13. 
Use of the perforated balloon catheter to infuse marker substances into diseased coronary artery walls after experimental postmortem angioplasty. A perforated balloon catheter was used in human coronary arteries after postmortem angioplasty had been performed. The catheter used has a standard angioplasty balloon with a pattern of laser-produced holes, 25 microns in size, which generate streams of fluid under pressure. Studies of the routes by which marker substances enter diseased arterial tissue when infused by the perforated balloon after experimental angioplasty are described. A colored marker dye entered the new crevices and dissection planes created by the angioplasty, but did not extend greater than 2 cm either proximal or distal to the perfused segment. Horseradish peroxidase entered tissue not only from the lumen and adventitia as occurs with its infusion into normal tissue with the perforated balloon, but also extended from new crevices and dissection planes created by the angioplasty. Platelet aggregation, coagulation and cell proliferation, the likely causes of restenosis after angioplasty, originate in the sites of greatest tissue disruption and blood stasis. These postmortem studies suggest that active drugs are delivered to the arterial wall in a manner likely to be effective in preventing these events. 
Acquired Brown's syndrome associated with hypogammaglobulinemia. We describe a 10-year-old girl with hypogammaglobulinemia who presented initially with painless progressive diplopia on right upward gaze and associated tenderness in the area of the superior oblique tendon (Brown's syndrome). She was given prednisone (40 mg/day) with gradual improvement of her symptoms. Prednisone was tapered and her symptoms remained unchanged for 10 months. She then experienced rapid deterioration. Prednisone was reinstituted with similar improvement and then therapy was switched to naproxen. She remains with only slight diplopia on extreme upward gaze. 
Improving results in the treatment of gastric cancer: an 11-year audit. Of 280 patients presenting to one hospital with gastric cancer between 1975 and 1985, 97 (35 per cent) did not undergo surgery and 29 per cent (54 out of 183) of those who did had no resection performed. The 30-day operative mortality rate in the study period was 15 per cent (28 out of 183) but in the subsequent 4-year period this fell to 7 per cent (5 out of 69). The survival rate correlated significantly with depth of invasion but not with tumour site or degree of differentiation. The incidence of early gastric cancer in this series was 5 per cent but the 5-year survival rate in this group was 52 per cent suggesting that the true incidence might be even lower. The overall 5-year survival rate in our area 20 years ago was only 5.2 per cent but in this series it was 11 per cent overall and 24 per cent after resection, and with actuarial correction 15 per cent overall and 28 per cent after resection. The continuing improvement in operative mortality rates and in 5-year survival rates gives grounds for optimism, but the disease must be diagnosed earlier if this improvement in outlook is to continue. 
gamma-Hydroxybutyrate: a health-food product producing coma and seizurelike activity. Sixteen cases of adverse effects due to a new health-food product, gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB), were reported to the San Francisco Bay Area Regional Poison Control Center in the 5-month period from June to October 1990. Cases have also been reported in eight other states. Adverse effects included coma (four patients) and tonic-clonic seizurelike activity (two patients). Doses ranged from 1/4 teaspoon to 4 tablespoons. Acute symptoms resolved within 7 hours. GHB was investigated as an anesthetic agent during the 1960s until seizures and lack of analgesia precluded its use. It was recently introduced in the health-food market as a food supplement for body builders with claims of anabolic effects by stimulating growth hormone release. GHB remains under investigational new drug status with the Food and Drug Administration and is illegal for over the counter sale. The Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services has prohibited further sale of this product in California as have health departments in Florida and South Carolina; however, new cases continue to be reported. Health professionals should be aware of the potential health hazards of GHB. 
Constitutive expression of multiple growth factor genes by melanoma cells but not normal melanocytes. In a panel of metastatic melanoma cell lines we found steady-state mRNA transcripts for multiple growth factors including basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-A, PDGF-B, transforming growth factor (TGF)- beta 1, TGF- alpha, melanoma growth-stimulating activity (MGSA), interleukin (IL)-1 alpha, and IL-1 beta but not insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 or IGF-2. Expression of growth factor genes was constitutive because prior to RNA extraction melanoma cells were maintained in a chemically defined culture medium free of exogenous growth factors. Each of four cell lines had an individual pattern of expression of either two, four, five, or seven growth factors; however, all cell lines shared expression of the bFGF gene. Two strains of normal melanocytes expressed TGF- beta 1 but not bFGF, PDGF, TGF- alpha , or MGSA mRNA at detectable levels. We tested growth-modulatory effects of the growth factors most frequently expressed by melanoma cells (bFGF, TGF- alpha, TGF- beta, PDGF). None of these stimulated melanoma cell growth consistently, whereas exogenous, acid-activated TGF- beta inhibited melanoma growth at concentrations greater than 10 ng/ml, suggesting that bioactive TGF- beta may represent a physiologic growth inhibitor. Neither neutralizing antisera to PDGF or TGF- alpha nor a monoclonal antibody to the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-receptor inhibited melanoma cell growth. Our results indicate that multiple growth factors are expressed simultaneously and constitutively by melanoma cells but not normal melanocytes in culture. Expression of bFGF is a common feature underscoring the significance of bFGF as an autocrine factor for melanoma cells as described earlier. Secreted PDGF and TGF- alpha are apparently not involved in or not essential for autocrine growth stimulation of melanoma cells. 
Events in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST): mortality in the entire population enrolled [published erratum appears in J Am Coll Cardiol 1991 Sep;18(3):888] To test the hypothesis that suppression of ventricular arrhythmias by antiarrhythmic drugs after myocardial infarction improves survival, the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) was initiated. Suppression was evaluated before randomization during an open label titration period. Patients whose arrhythmias were suppressed were randomized in the main study and those whose arrhythmias were partially suppressed were randomized in a substudy. Overall survival and survival free of arrhythmic death or cardiac arrest were lower [corrected] in patients treated with encainide or flecainide than in patients treated with placebo. However, the death rate in patients randomized to placebo therapy was lower than expected. This report describes the survival experience of all patients enrolled in CAST and compares it with mortality in other studies of patients with ventricular arrhythmias after myocardial infarction. As of April 18, 1989, 2,371 patients had enrolled in CAST and entered prerandomization, open label titration: 1,913 (81%) were randomized to double-blind, placebo-controlled therapy (1,775 patients whose arrhythmias were suppressed and 138 patients whose arrhythmias were partially suppressed during open label titration); and 458 patients (19%) were not randomized because they were still in titration, had died during titration or had withdrawn. Including all patients who enrolled in CAST, the actuarial (Kaplan-Meier) estimate of 1-year mortality was 10.3%. To estimate the "natural" mortality rate of patients enrolled in CAST, an analysis was done that adjusted for deaths that might be attributable to encainide or flecainide treatment either during prerandomization, open label drug titration or after randomization. Because the censoring procedure excluded patients treated with encainide or flecainide after randomization, the mortality estimate will be less than the unadjusted mortality estimate of 10.3%. 
Left-sided pleural effusion secondary to splenic vein thrombosis. A previously unrecognized relationship. The association of left-sided pleural effusion and subcapsular splenic hematoma was reported in 1980. We describe a patient in whom a left-sided pleural effusion resulted from splenic vein thrombosis, a relationship not previously reported. Splenectomy was performed, demonstrating the spleen to be enlarged and hemorrhagic. The pleural effusion did not recur after splenectomy. The three effusions due to splenic hematomas reported previously cleared only after splenectomy, suggesting splenectomy may be necessary to prevent reaccumulation. We propose possible pathophysiologic mechanisms and recommend that splenic vein thrombosis be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained left-sided pleural effusions. 
Adrenal carcinoma presenting as a lesion resembling cutaneous angiosarcoma. A case is reported of adrenal carcinoma presenting as an angiosarcoma-like metastasis in the scalp. Adrenal carcinoma is a rare tumor, and it metastasizes to skin rarely. The authors discuss the features of this tumor that led to a diagnosis of angiosarcoma and the means by which such a metastasis may be distinguished from vascular tumors. 
Outcome of patients who were admitted to a new short-stay unit to "rule-out" myocardial infarction. For emergency room patients with a low probability of acute myocardial infarction, we established a new short-stay coronary observation unit, a 2-bed nonintensive care unit with telemetry monitoring adjacent to the emergency room. Of 512 consecutive admissions to the coronary observation unit, 425 (83%) were discharged home without evidence of acute myocardial infarction or serious complications (mean length of stay, 1.2 days; median length of stay, 1 day); 87 (17%) were transferred to other hospital beds. The rate of acute myocardial infarction was 3%. No deaths and only 1 serious complication occurred in the coronary observation unit. At 6 month follow-up, the cardiac survival rate was 99% for patients sent home directly from this unit. It is concluded that the coronary observation unit is safe and adequate for ruling out acute myocardial infarction in a defined subset of patients. Short-stay units, however, encourage early discharges which, when premature, may miss patients who are at risk of having complications shortly thereafter. Strategies such as mandatory but expeditious predischarge stress testing to encourage early but not premature discharge may augment the efficiency of coronary observation units. 
Necrotizing fasciitis and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We have presented a case of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis that occurred after excessive NSAID intake with granulocytopenia. This case parallels those previously reported as outlined in the above discussion. We concur with previous investigators who have concluded that NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients with phlebitis or apparently benign inflammatory cutaneous lesions. 
Preservation of pulsatile luteinizing hormone release during postpartum lactational amenorrhea. To evaluate the pulsatile mode of immunoactive LH release during physiological lactational amenorrhea, we withdrew blood samples at 10-min intervals for 24 h from breastfeeding women (n = 9) at both 3 weeks and 3 months postpartum. Nonlactating women (n = 7) were sampled similarly in the early follicular phase of the normal menstrual cycle. Objective LH pulse analysis revealed that the mean frequencies of pulsatile LH release were similar at both times postpartum and in menstruating young women. By 3 months postpartum, mean serum PRL concentrations had declined 50%, and serum LH peak areas doubled. In contrast, LH interpulse interval, peak duration, and maximal, incremental, and fractional LH pulse amplitude did not change significantly. When deconvolution analysis was used to assess pituitary responses to two pulses of exogenous GnRH at 3 months (vs. 3 weeks) postpartum, we found significant increases in maximal LH secretory rates and the total mass of LH secreted. There was no change in the duration or timing of the evoked LH secretory burst and/or the estimated half-life of endogenous LH. In summary, during lactational amenorrhea, pulsatile LH release occurs at a mean frequency no different from that in the normal early follicular phase. As hyperprolactinemia wanes, there is increased pituitary responsiveness to exogenously administered GnRH and a doubling of spontaneous serum LH concentration peak areas. Such amplitude changes are consistent with the hypothesis of increased endogenous GnRH drive (e.g. augmented GnRH secretion per burst and/or increased pituitary responsiveness to available GnRH) during recovery of the postpartum hypothalamopituitary-ovarian axis. 
Rapid changes of atrial natriuretic peptide concentration during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. In 34 patients undergoing routine coronary angioplasty, concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), plasma renin (PR), and plasma aldosterone (PA) were estimated before, during, and after vessel occlusion and were correlated with hemodynamic changes. For the group as a whole, averaged right atrial pressure rose significantly (p less than 0.001) from 4.4 +/- 1.8 mm Hg at baseline to 6.7 +/- 3.0 mm Hg during vessel occlusion, and average right atrial ANP concentrations increased significantly (p less than 0.005) from 50.1 +/- 18.8 pg/ml to 59.7 +/- 21.4 pg/ml during balloon inflation. Data analysis of subgroups did not show any differences in right atrial pressure elevations between patients with left anterior descending artery (LAD) or right coronary artery (RCA) disease; ANP elevation was significant only in patients with LAD occlusion (p less than 0.001). In individual patients no statistically significant correlations were found to be present between changes in right atrial pressures and changes in atrial ANP concentrations. During vessel occlusion, PR dropped from 0.86 +/- 1.11 ng/ml/hr to 0.65 +/- 0.85 ng/ml/hr (p less than 0.001) in all patients, and PA decreased from 63.0 +/- 50.9 ng/ml to 52.2 +/- 43.4 ng/ml (p less than 0.01). Our data support the concept that, although an increase in right atrial pressure leads to ANP release in the majority of patients, atrial pressure and stretch are not the only regulatory factors of ANP release in humans. 
Primary ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic and enteropathic spondyloarthropathy: a controlled analysis. Within our ankylosing spondylitis (AS) population (n = 1331), 85% (n = 1128) had primary AS (1 degree AS), 9% (n = 121) had psoriatic AS (PsAS) and 6% (n = 82) enteropathic AS (IBDAS). In an attempt to explore further the relationship between 1 degree AS and the secondary spondyloarthritides, we evaluated 121 consecutive patients with PsAS and 82 with IBDAS, as well as 202 controls with primary disease. The patients were matched for sex and age at review PsAS:48.1 (SD 11.3) years vs 1 degree AS:48.4 (SD 11.5), and IBDAS:46.0 (SD 12.7) vs 1 degree AS:45.9 (SD 12.7). The sex distribution for IBDAS (M:F, 1:1), was significantly less (p less than 0.001) than that for PsAS (M:F, 3.5:1) or 1 degree AS (M:F, 2.4:1). Overall, compared to 1 degree AS the PsAS and IBDAS tended to have greater disease severity as defined by e.g., (1) those taking non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, 86 vs 72% (p less than 0.01) and 71 vs 60% (p less than 0.05), respectively; (2) decreased spinal mobility (scale 0-8) 5.0 (SD 2.0) vs 4.4 (SD 2.3); p = 0.029 and 4.9 (SD 2.0) vs 3.9 (SD 2.4); p = 0.024, respectively; and (3) PsAS resulted in a higher AIMS pain score; 4.9 (SD 2.5) vs 4.0 (SD 2.4): p = 0.042. By contrast, peripheral joint involvement, number of total hip replacements and capacity for employment were similar in all 3 groups. In conclusion (1) among the AS population the prevalence of 1 degree AS, PsAS and IBDAS is 90, 6 and 4%, respectively. 
Chronic wounds and delusions of parasitosis in the drug abuser. Plastic surgeons are routinely consulted about the care of difficult or chronic wounds. Most of these wounds have a physiologic basis and are treated according to basic wound-healing principles. Patients with factitious wounds are difficult to treat and present diagnostic dilemmas. We present a case and review of the literature of drug-induced delusions of parasitosis to inform plastic surgeons of this important entity and for consideration in the differential diagnosis of chronic wounds. 
Usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of conditions mimicking aortic dissection. Between September 1987 and April 1989, forty patients suspected to have aortic dissection were evaluated by transesophageal echocardiography. Aortic dissection was identified in 18 patients. This study evaluated the ability of transesophageal echocardiography in the assessment of the 22 patients in whom aortic dissection was not found. A range of pathologic conditions was diagnosed in these patients. Five patients had ischemic heart disease when they were initially seen. Among the remaining 17 only one patient had a normal aorta. Aortic disease was present in the other 16 patients with aortic dilatation in 10. Atheromas were detected in seven patients with concomitant aortic dilatation in five of them. An extrinsic aortic mass was present in two patients. Transesophageal echocardiography correctly identified an anastomotic leak at the site of left coronary artery implantation in a patient with a recent Bentall procedure, and a large mobile clot within the proximal descending aorta in a patient with blunt chest trauma. These findings obviated the need for other tests in 15 patients and led to surgery in four with no ancillary tests performed in three of them. Thus transesophageal echocardiography has an important role in assessing patients with suspected dissection. Aortic disease is common even in patients in whom aortic dissection is excluded, and some of the conditions can be just as life-threatening as dissection. Transesophageal echocardiography not only reliably identifies dissection but can also detect luminal and extraluminal diseases not adequately visualized by other modalities. 
Tegmental dehiscence and brain herniation into the middle ear cleft. The tegmen tympani may occasionally be breached by herniation of the temporal lobe with or without dural cover. The clinical presentation may be obvious with CSF otorrhoea but less so with apparent middle ear effusion, CSF rhinnorrhoea, conductive hearing loss, recurrent meningitis or intracranial sepsis. Diagnosis requires suspicion of the condition, which may be aided by radiological imaging. Surgical repair is to be recommended: various techniques are available but bone enveloped by fascia placed by subtemporal approach is preferred. The features of this problem are highlighted by four cases. 
Prospective evaluation of unilateral adrenal masses in patients with operable non-small-cell lung cancer. Although adrenal metastases are frequently noted with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) at autopsy, their incidence in patients with operable NSCLC is unclear. We prospectively assessed consecutive patients with otherwise operable NSCLC for the incidence and histology of unilateral adrenal masses. Assessment included blood chemistries, lung function tests, bronchoscopy, chest x-ray, bone scan, and computed tomography (CT) of the head, chest, and upper abdomen. Of 246 patients with otherwise operable NSCLC, 10 (4.1%) had a unilateral adrenal mass. Unilateral adrenal masses were needle-aspirated under CT control. If cytology was nondiagnostic, adrenalectomy was performed. Four (40%) of 10 patients had adrenal metastases proven by needle aspiration. Of the six (60%) patients with benign unilateral adrenal masses, one was demonstrated by needle aspiration. In the other five patients, a nondiagnostic needle aspiration led to adrenalectomy, which yielded two adenomas, two hyperplastic nodules, and one hemorrhagic cyst. There was no significant difference between the patients with benign and metastatic unilateral adrenal masses with respect to patient age or stage and size of adrenal mass. Patients with benign unilateral adrenal masses underwent curative resection of their NSCLC and had significantly prolonged survival compared with patients with metastatic unilateral adrenal masses treated with chemotherapy (P = .037). Median survival of patients with benign and metastatic unilateral adrenal masses was greater than 30 months and 9 months, respectively. In conclusion, the presence of unilateral adrenal masses in patients with otherwise operable NSCLC should not preclude thoracotomy without pathologic proof of metastatic disease. 
Palliation of malignant tracheal strictures using silicone T tubes. The use of silicone T tubes for intubation of malignant tracheobronchial strictures may provide some degree of palliation of this distressing condition. It was used in seven patients with malignant lesions and two with benign strictures (resulting from tracheal trauma and lung transplantation). Four patients (two with cancer) are still alive and well with the tube in position. All patients noted improvement in dyspnoea and stridor. The main problems were tube migration (one patient), tracheo-oesophageal fistula (one patient), and blockage of the tube by tumour (two patients) or encrusted secretions (three patients). Airway patency was restored when the tube was blocked by cleaning or by laser resection of the tumour. With careful supervision and education of the patient intubation can give useful palliation to patients with distressing upper airways obstruction. 
Self-referred mammography patients: analysis of patients' characteristics. Among mammography patients, a small but growing group of highly motivated women refer themselves directly for screening without the suggestion of their physicians. We surveyed 485 patients during a 3-month period to study how self-referred mammography patients differ from physician-referred patients. Self-referred patients were more likely than physician-referred patients to have a family income of more than $30,000 per year, to be college graduates, and to consider their health as good or excellent. A large percentage of self-referred patients performed other health-promoting practices, but were not significantly more likely to do these than were physician-referred patients. Women who referred themselves were more likely to have a friend with breast cancer and to believe that cancer could be cured. They expressed much less worry about radiation exposure and were more likely to consider $50.00 an appropriate charge for a screening mammogram. By far, the greatest motivator for self-referred patients was health promotion and disease prevention. Self-referred mammography patients tend to be wealthier, more education, and less concerned about the cost and radiation dose of mammography when compared with physician-referred mammography patients. 
Genotypic analysis of diffuse, mixed cell lymphomas. Comparison with morphologic and immunophenotypic findings. Malignant lymphoma, diffuse, mixed small and large cell type, as defined in the Working Formulation, is heterogeneous both morphologically and immunophenotypically and, in some cases, clonality may be difficult to determine. Because gene rearrangement analysis has been shown to be a sensitive method for determining clonality, the authors genotyped 20 cases and compared the results with histologic and immunophenotypic findings. Immunophenotypic studies demonstrated that all lesions were composed predominantly of T cells. In addition, in eight cases either a monoclonal B-cell population (five lesions) or an aberrant immunophenotype (two T, one B) was detected, supporting a malignant diagnosis. In seven of these eight lymphomas, genotypic analysis confirmed the presence of a population of clonal cells. One case with an abnormal T-cell phenotype was germline. In 12 cases the immunophenotypic results were uncertain (i.e., no clonal population or abnormal immunophenotype was identified). Genotypic analysis provided evidence of clonality in eight. In four cases with uncertain immunophenotypic results, a clonal population also could not be identified with the use of Southern blot analysis. Thus, the authors conclude that gene rearrangement analysis is a valuable tool in the study of diffuse mixed cell lymphomas and is complementary to immunophenotypic studies. In addition, the authors analyzed the major breakpoint region of the bcl-2 protooncogene on chromosome 18, either by Southern blot analysis and/or with the polymerase chain reaction. The authors identified the t(14;18)(q32;q21) translocation in seven B-cell lymphomas, five of which were not considered to be of follicular center cell type on the basis of morphologic findings. These results suggest that the histologic spectrum of follicular center cell lymphomas is greater than is appreciated in the literature. 
Direct myocardial revascularization without extracorporeal circulation. Experience in 700 patients Between May 1978 and March 1990, 700 patients were operated on with direct coronary surgery without extracorporeal circulation (ECC): 529 (76 percent) were male and 171 (24 percent) were female. The average age was 64 years (range, 35 to 86 years), 454 (65 percent) had unstable angina, 163 (23 percent) had stable angina, 51 (7 percent) had postmyocardial infarction angina, and 32 (5 percent) had acute myocardial infarction at the moment of the operation. In this series of patients, all branches of the coronary arteries were bypassed; the mammary artery was used in 40 percent of the cases, the average bypass per patient was 2.2 (range, 1 to 5), and 26 percent had associated disease of high risk to undergo ECC. The morbidity was 4 percent and the mortality for this series of patients was 1 percent; the probability of survival at seven years was 90 percent. This experience shows us that this surgery is an alternative in the treatment of coronary disease, especially for aged patients with associated disease, in some cases of acute transmural infarction, and also for patients who need coronary angioplasty. Also, it can improve the relation cost/benefit in coronary surgery. 
Clues and pitfalls in stereotactic biopsy of the central nervous system. We present a 6-year experience on 307 stereotactic biopsy specimens of the central nervous system using Leksell's and Talairach's systems independently and either Leksell or Sedan needles. Patients with deep cerebral lesions (basal ganglia, parasellar, pineal, or third ventricle), those located in highly functional areas or those poorly defined on imaging studies, as well as candidates for brachytherapy, were selected. Smear examination during surgery was a routine procedure followed by conventional histologic methods. Ages ranged from 8 months to 81 years (mean, 33.64 years). The series comprised 258 tumors, 28 nonneoplastic cases, and 21 nondiagnostic samples. Of the 258 tumors, 179 were supratentorial, 28 were infratentorial, 36 were of the pineal area, and 15 were from sellar and suprasellar regions. Results of the histologic examination showed the following: astrocytic tumors, 148 (57.36%); oligodendroglial, 25 (9.68%); ependymal, six (2.32%); primitive neuroectodermal tumors, 17, including 14 pineoblastomas (5.45%) and three medulloblastomas (1.16%), seven lymphomas (2.71%), seven meningiomas (2.71%), four schwannomas (1.55%), eight craniopharyngiomas (3.10%), 12 germinomas (4.65%), and 20 metastases (7.78%). Nontumoral cases included six arteriovenous malformations, six pyogenic lesions, seven infarcts, two hematomas, one multiple sclerosis plaque, one Fahr, one progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, one tuberculosis, one cysticercosis, and one Chagas' encephalitis. Awareness of the cerebellar granular layer in infratentorial targets as well as glial reaction around craniopharyngiomas is essential to avoid misdiagnosis. Difficulties were basically differential diagnosis between well-differentiated astrocytomas vs glial reaction, as well as poorly differentiated neoplasms vs metastases. 
Functional results after total or near total glossectomy with laryngeal preservation. Locally advanced tongue cancer is a devastating disease for which there are limited therapeutic options that will result in a high rate of cure while preserving function. To determine the oncologic effectiveness of total or near total glossectomy with laryngeal preservation and the possibility of speech and swallowing rehabilitation following treatment, we reviewed our experience with 27 patients treated between 1982 and 1989. Twenty-four patients were eligible for 2-year follow-up and their disease-specific survival was 51%. Swallowing was achieved initially in 18 patients (67%), while 12 had successful long-term deglutition (44%). Oral communication was accomplished in 25 patients (92%). Significant aspiration occurred in three patients and was severe enough to require interval laryngectomy in two patients. The role of laryngeal suspension, palatal augmentation prosthesis, and videofluoroscopy as rehabilitation adjuncts for the total glossectomy patient are described. 
Effect of primary-stage feline immunodeficiency virus infection on subsequent feline calicivirus vaccination and challenge in cats. The effect of experimental primary-stage feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection on feline calicivirus (FCV) vaccination and challenge in cats was studied. Clinical signs of acute FCV disease were more widespread in the cats which were infected with FIV than in those which were not. FIV infection also prolonged shedding of FCV, with more of the FIV-infected cats becoming chronic carriers. Although vaccination induced protection against acute FCV disease, this was to a lesser degree in FIV-infected cats. Vaccination by itself also appeared to enhance long-term virus shedding. There was evidence of an impaired anamnestic FCV-neutralizing antibody response in FIV-infected cats following FCV challenge. 
Congenital atresia of left main coronary artery: proposed mechanism for severe disabling angina in a patient with non-atherosclerotic single right coronary artery--a case report. A patient with progressive disabling angina was found to have a single right coronary artery with atresia of the left main coronary artery, and absence of any obstructive coronary disease. The patient required aortocoronary by-pass surgical reconstruction of a left main coronary artery to control her angina. Possible mechanisms for the development of her anginal pain are briefly discussed. 
Clinical effects of allopurinol on intractable epilepsy. We studied the clinical efficacy of allopurinol as add-on therapy in 31 patients with intractable epilepsy. When administered for a short time, allopurinol was effective in 17 patients (55%); 8 were seizure-free, 8 had 75% decrease in seizure frequency, and 1 had greater than 50% decrease. Allopurinol was most effective in patients with localization-related epilepsy, especially in secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Allopurinol was not as effective in patients with Lennox syndrome or West syndrome, or in severe myoclonic epilepsy in infants. When allopurinol was administered greater than 1 year, its initial effectiveness continued in 8 of 14 patients who exhibited initial improvement. In 2 of the remaining 6 patients, the initial improvement disappeared during the course of treatment but control was regained by increasing the dosage of allopurinol. Mild side effects were observed in 4 patients (13%): drowsiness in 3 and abdominal pain in 1. Allopurinol may be a useful antiepileptic drug (AED), and a double-blind placebo-controlled trial should be performed. 
Coronary angiography after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. PURPOSE: To review the status of emergency, urgent, routine, and selective angiography after intravenous thrombolytic therapy. DATA SOURCES: Relevant English-language articles published from January 1985 to July 1990 were identified through MEDLINE. STUDY SELECTION: For emergency angiography, four major randomized studies were reviewed and data from nine studies that incorporated rescue coronary angioplasty were pooled for meta-analysis. For urgent angiography, two controlled trials were reviewed. Comparisons of routine and selective angiography were done using data from two dedicated, large-scale, controlled trials and the ancillary findings of four other studies of reperfusion that incorporated angiography. DATA EXTRACTION: The review emphasizes the findings from multicenter, randomized, controlled trials. DATA SYNTHESIS: Emergency coronary angiography is done primarily in preparation for primary or rescue angioplasty; the value of rescue angioplasty has yet to be assessed in a randomized trial, but technical success and reocclusion improve significantly after therapy with nonspecific plasminogen activators compared with relatively specific agents (success rate, 86% compared with 75%, respectively; P = 0.03; reocclusion rate, 10.9% compared with 26.8%, respectively; P less than 0.001). Urgent coronary angiography has value for treating recurrent ischemia, but patients who develop this complication after thrombolysis are likely to have a suboptimal outcome despite aggressive care. Studies support the use of either selective or routine angiography in uncomplicated patients after thrombolytic therapy; either approach is acceptable, but the former is more practical and may prove to be cost effective. CONCLUSIONS: Optimal follow-up for patients with evolving myocardial infarction who receive thrombolysis may incorporate coronary angiography at various stages. Although our ability to noninvasively detect reperfusion, reocclusion, or viable but ischemic myocardium is limited at present, available data may assist in selecting a catheterization strategy. 
Imaging of vascular complications associated with renal transplants. Vascular complications associated with renal transplants are a significant cause of graft dysfunction. The most common complications are arterial and venous stenoses and thromboses and intrarenal and extrarenal arteriovenous fistulas and pseudoaneurysms. Although angiography is the imaging gold standard for the diagnosis of these disorders, Doppler sonography, scintigraphy, and occasionally CT are capable of detecting them. An awareness of the different imaging appearances of each complication will aid in their early detection and treatment. In this review, we present this information and provide a perspective on the relative roles of these techniques in the detection of vascular complications from renal transplants. 
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome with disseminated toxoplasmosis presenting as an acute pulmonary and gastrointestinal illness. Encephalitis due to the protozoan Toxoplasma gondii has emerged as a common cause of central nervous system disease in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Extraneural disease is less common and more difficult to diagnose. We report a case of widely disseminated toxoplasmosis that presented as acute gastrointestinal and pulmonary disease in a patient without a prior diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The diagnosis of toxoplasmosis was made only at autopsy. Antemortem diagnosis of disseminated T gondii infection requires a high degree of clinical suspicion and the prompt utilization of appropriate diagnostic testing. Since toxoplasmosis is a potentially treatable opportunistic infection, diagnosis allows the swift institution of anti-Toxoplasma therapy. 
Randomized dose-searching phase ILE/II trials of fractionation in radiation therapy for cancer. This article describes a new design, phase ILE/II dose searching, used in four prospective, randomized, multicenter clinical trials of escalating total doses of hyperfractionated radiation. This design combines an experimental protocol with a statistical application of ranking and selection theory. Its purpose was to identify (within a certain margin of error) a dose that achieved the highest rate of clinical response from a set of doses that were tolerable in terms of both acute (within 90 days) and late (more than 90 days) toxic effects (LE). We calculated the number of patients required to reliably test toxicity under various assumptions. To determine the maximum tolerated total dose for hyperfractionated radiation, we randomly assigned patients with tumors that responded to radiation therapy in a dose-dependent manner from four body sites (lung, upper respiratory and digestive tract, bladder, and brain) to one of three regimens receiving total doses (D1, D2, or D3) differing by increments of 4.8 Gy. All patients received two fractions of 1.2 Gy each (separated by 4-6 hours) daily 5 days a week. The lowest total dose was set at the level considered tolerable with standard once-a-day radiation therapy. We tested tumor responses and late toxic effects of higher doses by assigning patients to these three regimens until acute effects and early estimates of late effects were found to be acceptable for the highest dose D3; thereafter, regimen D1 was closed, and additional patients were assigned to D2, D3, and D4 (an escalated total dose greater than D3 by an increment of 4.8 Gy). The assignment of patients was performed in a weighted manner (1:1:2), so that greater numbers were assigned to the highest dose regimen (whether D3 or D4) to allow rapid evaluation of the feasibility of the highest dose. 
Functional significance of an overlapping consensus binding motif for Sp1 and Zif268 in the murine adenosine deaminase gene promoter. The murine adenosine deaminase (ADA) gene has a (G + C)-rich promoter that can support diverse tissue-specific gene expression. By using deletion and mutation analyses, we have identified a cis-acting "repressor" element located immediately upstream of the proximal Sp1 binding site in the ADA gene promoter. This repressor element was localized to a binding site for the immediate-early, serum-responsive, DNA binding factor Zif268. This Zif268 binding site partially overlaps a binding site for the general transcription activator Sp1. Disruption of the Zif268 binding site without disturbing the Sp1 binding motif abolished Zif268 binding and resulted in significantly elevated promoter function. Conversely, disruption of the proximal consensus Sp1 binding motif without disturbing the Zif268 binding site resulted in a loss of Sp1 binding at that region and greatly reduced promoter activity. Our results suggest that one function of Zif268 may be to down-regulate this type of mammalian gene promoter by competing with Sp1 for binding to the overlapping binding motif. 
N-myc genomic content and DNA ploidy in stage IVS neuroblastoma. DNA ploidy and N-myc genomic content were analyzed in a series of stage IVS neuroblastomas by flow cytometry and Southern blot hybridization, respectively. Of the 12 stage IVS neuroblastomas studied, nine were aneuploid (DNA index [DI] greater than 1), two were diploid (DI = 1), and one was not assessable for DNA content due to insufficient tumor material. N-myc gene amplification was present in two of 12 tumors. None of the aneuploid tumors exhibited N-myc amplification. Among the aneuploid neuroblastomas, the DIs were between 1.27 and 1.60, ie, in the near-triploid range. The follow-up from diagnosis ranged from 1 to 41 months (mean, 20 months). The nine neuroblastomas with near-triploid DNA content were free of disease at the end of the follow-up period. In contrast, a rapid and fatal tumor progression was observed for the three neuroblastomas with N-myc amplification and/or diploidy. Although involving only a limited series, these results strongly suggest that the combined analysis of DNA ploidy and N-myc genomic content could predict clinical outcome in stage IVS neuroblastoma and should help to identify patients for whom a more aggressive therapy is required. 
Report of a hidden case of overfeeding. Nutritional support is essential to the care of the critically ill patient, but complications of overfeeding can occur. Precise metabolic measurement by indirect calorimetry can detect problems of nutrition and allow adjustment in caloric intake. This case study illustrates the complications of carbon dioxide retention and inability to wean from mechanical ventilation with subsequent prevention of further complications. 
Management of renal cell carcinoma with vena caval thrombi via cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. Cardiopulmonary bypass with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest allows safe and effective removal of renal tumors with extensive thrombi involving the vena cava under controlled circumstances without permanent side effects. The technique averts extensive dissection of the inferior vena cava and occlusion of major vessels while providing up to 60 minutes of safe operating time in a bloodless field and complete visibility of the interior of the vena cava. Adjunctive procedures for tumor excision or cardiac revascularization can be performed at the same time without increased operative risk. 
Melanosis coli: a case report in a trauma patient and review of the literature. Melanosis Coli (MC) is a benign pigmentation disorder of the colon occasionally diagnosed at endoscopy. The authors report a case of M. coli in a patient with a gunshot to the abdomen, in whom the entity produced an interesting clinical picture, and a review of the literature on this condition. 
Dental implants placed in a patient with multiple myeloma: report of case A 69-year-old male, under active treatment for multiple myeloma, fractured his left maxillary second premolar palatal abutment tooth and requested treatment because his upper partial denture no longer fit. Several other teeth were deemed hopeless, and construction of a maxillary complete denture presented problems. There are general contraindications regarding dental implant surgery in the terminally ill patient; however, in this case, the patient wished to maximize his quality of life and opted to undergo implant surgery. With close management, the treatment was successful. 
Effects of substance P on norepinephrine release from vascular adrenergic neurons in spontaneously hypertensive rats. This study was performed to investigate the role of substance P in the vascular adrenergic transmission in hypertension. In perfused mesenteric vasculatures prepared from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR, 7 to 10 weeks old) and age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), we have examined the effects of substance P on vascular responsiveness as well as on norepinephrine release from the vascular adrenergic neurons. In preliminary studies with normotensive Wistar rats, pressor responses and endogenous norepinephrine release during electrical nerve stimulation were inhibited by substance P in a dose-dependent manner. However, vasoconstrictor responses to exogenous norepinephrine were not affected by the peptide. In SHR, the stimulation-evoked pressor responses and norepinephrine release were enhanced compared with WKY. Alternatively, the suppression of these responses by substance P was significantly less in SHR than in WKY. These results demonstrate that substance P could have a modulatory effect on noradrenergic activity and cause a decrease in stimulation-evoked norepinephrine release from the vascular adrenergic neurons. The attenuated reduction of pressor responses and norepinephrine release by substance P in SHR might suggest insufficient regulation of vascular adrenergic transmission by the peptide in hypertension. 
Control of acute lower respiratory illness in the developing world: an assessment of vaccine intervention. The major bacterial and viral causes of morbidity and death due to acute lower respiratory infection (ALRI) in the developing world are amenable to control by vaccines. Initially, full use of measles, pertussis, and diphtheria vaccines, in appropriately scheduled programs, can make an immediate contribution to the reduction of severe respiratory infection. Emerging technologies offer the promise of vaccines against bacterial and viral respiratory pathogens that are suitable for infants and children in developing countries. These technologic advances include the use of protein-polysaccharide conjugates of endemic serotypes for Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae vaccines and new approaches to the use of purified protein components or attenuated live virus with respiratory syncytial virus and paramyxovirus vaccines. Such vaccines should soon be available for evaluation in developing countries. It is timely to embark upon a program of development, evaluation, and worldwide deployment of vaccines for the control of ALRI. 
Electrophysiological effects of left ventricular hypertrophy. Effect of calcium and potassium channel blockade. BACKGROUND. To define the arrhythmogenic effects of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in the intact heart, we carried out a detailed electrophysiological assessment in our previously validated feline aortic-banding model and then tested the effects of agents that blocked either the slow inward calcium or voltage-dependent potassium channel. METHODS AND RESULTS. We measured intraventricular and interventricular conduction times, excitability thresholds, ventricular effective refractory periods, and monophasic action potential duration at several sites in cats with LVH as well as in concurrent control (sham-operated) cats. In addition, we assessed vulnerability to ventricular arrhythmia using direct measurement of ventricular fibrillation (VF) thresholds and by standard techniques of programmed stimulation. Despite finding no difference between LVH and sham-operated cats in mean values for several electrophysiological parameters, the former group was significantly more vulnerable to VF, with more spontaneous VF and lower VF thresholds. Compared with the sham controls, LVH cats also had a greater dispersion of effective refractory period (35 +/- 11 versus 12 +/- 4 msec, p less than 0.01) and monophasic action potential duration at 90% repolarization (69 +/- 25 versus 39 +/- 7 msec, p less than 0.02). Verapamil had no significant effect on these electrophysiological parameters, nor did it affect VF threshold. However, risotilide, an inhibitor of the voltage-dependent potassium channel, narrowed dispersion of the effective refractory period and monophasic action potential duration concomitant with a marked reduction in ventricular vulnerability. CONCLUSIONS. LVH has a pronounced effect on dispersion of refractoriness and repolarization and renders the ventricle more vulnerable to fibrillation. Blockade of the voltage-dependent potassium channel, but not the slow inward calcium channel, narrows the dispersion of recovery of excitability and protects against VF. 
Antihypertensive effects of isradipine and captopril as monotherapy or in combination. The antihypertensive effects of isradipine and captopril were studied in 140 patients (70 men) with mild-to-moderate hypertension, aged 26 to 74 years, in a double-blind, randomized, between-patient comparative trial. Initial treatment started with 1.25 mg isradipine twice daily or 12.5 mg captopril twice daily. If normotension was not achieved after four weeks, doses were increased to 2.5 mg twice daily or 25 mg twice daily, respectively. If the maximum dose as monotherapy did not result in normotension, captopril (12.5 mg or, if necessary, 25 mg twice daily) was added to regimens of the isradipine-treated patients or isradipine (1.25 mg or, if necessary, 2.5 mg twice daily) was given in addition to the captopril-treated patients. After 24 weeks of active treatment, systolic blood pressure was significantly reduced (P less than .001) with isradipine (from 168 +/- 18 to 144 +/- 14 mm Hg) and with captopril (from 168 +/- 20 to 143 +/- 10 mm Hg). Diastolic blood pressure also fell significantly (P less than .001) in both groups (isradipine: from 105 +/- 5 to 84 +/- 5 mm Hg; captopril; from 105 +/- 4 to 85 +/- 4 mm Hg). With isradipine as monotherapy, diastolic blood pressure was normalized in 49% of patients compared with 56% with captopril as monotherapy (P = NS). Combining both drugs resulted in an increased rate of normalization (to 87%). The results indicate that combined treatment with a calcium antagonist and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor is effective in lowering blood pressure and is well tolerated during long-term therapy. 
Compensatory hypertrophy and adaptation in the cortical collecting duct. The cortical collecting duct (CCD) undergoes hypertrophy and functional adaptation following reduction of renal mass. The nature and mechanisms of these changes have been investigated using microperfusion of isolated CCD from rabbit remnant kidneys. By 1 week after reduction of renal mass, tubule hypertrophy and increased sodium transport are fully developed. The transport adaptations are specific or selective, since bicarbonate transport in these CCD is unchanged. Mineralocorticoids may play an important role in the hypertrophy and increased sodium transport, since plasma aldosterone increases early after reduction of renal mass. Also, adrenalectomy abolishes the changes in size and sodium transport, even with supplementation of aldosterone to unstressed physiologic levels. Epidermal growth factor also has immediate effects on CCD sodium transport; however, the direction of the effect is opposite--an inhibition of transport. 
Perilymph fistula--a diagnostic dilemma. A retrospective series is presented of 51 cases operated on for suspected perilymph fistula. In 26 ears a fistula was identified at surgery. A positive fistula test was found to strongly indicate a perilymph fistula but was more often negative than positive in surgically demonstrated fistula ears. Other vestibular tests were found to be of little value in the pre-operative diagnosis. Ears with a surgically demonstrated fistula and sensorineural hearing loss had either flat or downward-sloping audiograms. Difficulties in diagnosing a perilymph fistula at tympanotomy are discussed. At follow-up, vestibular symptoms were found to be eliminated or improved in 96 per cent of cases with surgically demonstrated fistulae and in 68 per cent of cases in which no fistula was detected at tympanotomy but hearing improved significantly in only one ear (4 per cent) of the former group and in five ears (20 per cent) of the latter group. 
Does the presence of a measurable blood alcohol level in a potential organ donor affect the outcome of liver transplantation? The widespread application of hepatic transplantation has created a tremendous demand for donor organs. An assessment of donor parameters is thought to be important in selecting good donors; however, the criteria utilized have not been standardized. This study was performed to determine the effect of a measurable donor blood alcohol level on graft survival. Fifty-two patients who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation at the University of Pittsburgh were included in the study. Twenty-five patients received liver grafts from donors having a blood alcohol level between 0.04 and 0.4 g/l with a mean of 0.17 g/l. Twenty-seven patients received a liver graft from a donor who had no measurable blood alcohol. There were no differences between these two groups of donors regarding the time of initial hospitalization until the time of donation. Graft failure within the first 30 days was 24% for those receiving an organ from an alcohol-positive donor as compared with 22.2% in those receiving an organ from an alcohol negative donor. The recipient mortality rate was 16% and 11%, respectively. No relationships between the donor blood alcohol level and organ performance, frequency of primary graft nonfunction, or number of episodes of acute cellular rejection were evident. Based upon these data, the presence of a measurable blood alcohol level in a donor should not mitigate against organ donation. 
A novel approach to analysis of transcriptional regulation in human cells: initial application to melanocytes and melanoma cells. An assay system for transcriptional profile analysis of cultured eukaryotic cells has been developed to simultaneously handle multiple samples in a rapid, sensitive, and internally controlled manner. The methodology incorporates a microtiter plate assay system, a rapid cell-harvest enzyme-assay technique, and the bacterial reporter genes beta-glucuronidase and beta-galactosidase. We demonstrate, using beta-actin and SV40 (late) transcription promoting sequences, that this technically refined microtiter-triton-lysate (MTL) assay methodology can readily differentiate between the transcriptional states of human melanocytes before and after pharmacologic stimulation and malignantly transformed versus normal cell environments. Differences in the transcriptional environments are revealed by the relative expression of transcription element probes. The transcriptional activity ratio of the beta-actin compared to the SV40 late transcription promoting sequences was approximately 1:2 in primary cultured melanocytes, 2:1 in 12-0-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-treated melanocytes and 1:4 in the Tang melanoma cell line. Because this MTL assay methodology can accommodate a panel of transcription element probes, we anticipate that the resultant transcriptional profiles will prove useful in deciphering the diverse transcriptional changes that occur within normally regulated and malignantly transformed cells. 
Intestinal manifestations of invasive diarrheas and their diagnosis. Data from studies of 916 children with diarrhea, including 122 from whom shigellae were isolated, and data on patients affected in an epidemic due to Shigella dysenteriae type I were analyzed to determine whether a diagnostic clinical profile of shigellosis could be identified. Blood and/or mucus in stool, increased frequency of stool, abdominal pain, rectal tenesmus, and fever were noted more frequently in patients with shigellosis. The diagnostic confirmation of shigellosis depends on the isolation of the organism, but in the clinical situation early initiation of appropriate antibiotic therapy can be based on clinical judgment that utilizes local perceptions regarding dysentery. 
Histopathology and immunohistochemistry of the caecum in children with the Trichuris dysentery syndrome. Caecal biopsy specimens from Jamaican children with the Trichuris dysentery syndrome (TDS) and age matched Jamaican controls were investigated by immunohistochemistry and by light microscopy. Biopsy specimens from all children (with TDS and controls) showed a mild to moderate increase in inflammatory cells. Except in the vicinity of the worm, where the epithelium was flattened, there was no other epithelial abnormality. Compared with controls, children with TDS had increased IgM lamina propria plasma cells and decreased intraepithelial T cells. There was also an increase in crypt epithelial cell proliferation. Lamina propria T cells (both activated and non-activated) were no more common in children with the Trichuris syndrome than controls. Epithelial cell HLA-DR and VLA-1 expression (which are increased in other colitides) were the same in both groups. Despite the presence of large worm burdens and chronic dysentery, therefore, only minor changes were seen in the caecal mucosa of children with TDS. 
Analysis of prognostic factors in men with metastatic prostate cancer. Uro-Oncology Group of Northern Alberta. We determined the influence of the extent of disease on bone scan, serum testosterone, patient age, performance status, method of initial diagnosis, Gleason grade, clinical stage at diagnosis, serum acid phosphatase, serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) and primary hormonal treatment on survival. The clinical and hormonal data were obtained when the presence of metastatic disease was established and treatment was to be initiated in 162 men with metastatic prostate cancer. Mean followup was 16 months (range 1 to 105 months). A total of 70 men (43.2%) died of the metastatic disease during the evaluation period. Log rank analysis revealed that only serum testosterone (p = 0.035) and extent of disease on bone scan (p = 0.003) significantly affected over-all survival. A trend (p = 0.068) towards decreased survival was observed with increasing values of PSA. Increasing values of acid phosphatase positively correlated with extent of disease on bone scan but was not a significant independent prognostic factor. Patient age, performance status, clinical stage, method of initial diagnosis, Gleason grade and type of hormonal treatment did not significantly influence survival. Upon using multivariate Cox analysis, only extent of disease on bone scan was significantly correlated with over-all survival (p less than 0.014). PSA may also be influential but longer duration of followup will be necessary. We conclude that extent of disease on bone scan is the most important prognosticator of the analyzed factors and that serum testosterone may be of value. 
Differential effects of transforming growth factor-beta 1 and phorbol myristate acetate on cardiac fibroblasts. Regulation of fibrillar collagen mRNAs and expression of early transcription factors. Cardiac fibroblasts are responsible for synthesis and deposition of fibrillar collagen types I and III. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) has been proved to increase collagen biosynthesis in various systems, both in vivo and in vitro. We have investigated the effect of TGF-beta 1 on collagen gene expression in cultured cardiac fibroblasts and have compared this effect with that of a mitogenic agent, phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). The regulation of collagen types I and III gene expression was examined by using cDNA probes to rat alpha 2 (I) and mouse alpha 1 (III) procollagens. Quiescent cultured cardiac fibroblasts from rabbit heart were treated with TGF-beta 1 (10-15 ng/ml) and PMA (200 ng/ml). After 24 hours of treatment with TGF-beta 1, the abundance of mRNA for pro-alpha 2 (I) and pro-alpha 1 (III) collagens was increased by 112% (p less than 0.001) and 97% (p = 0.05), respectively, in treated fibroblasts compared with untreated cells. However, PMA-treated cells showed an opposite response: a 42% (p = 0.01) decrease in mRNA levels for pro-alpha 2 (I) collagen was observed. Immunofluorescent staining of cardiac fibroblasts in culture with anti-type I collagen antibody showed that alterations in mRNA levels led to altered collagen synthesis: cellular collagen was relatively increased in TGF-beta 1-treated cells and significantly diminished in PMA-treated cells. The abundance of mRNA for pro-alpha 1 (III) collagen was not affected by PMA treatment. 
Skeletal muscle degradation and nitrogen wasting in rats with chronic metabolic acidosis. 1. Chronic metabolic acidosis is associated with impaired growth and negative nitrogen balance, suggesting that it promotes endogenous protein catabolism. 2. Skeletal muscle is the major repository of body protein and is a potential target for stimuli of protein catabolism. 3. This study in vivo examines the effects of chronic metabolic acidosis on the relationship between growth, nitrogen disposal and skeletal muscle catabolism in the rat. 4. Growth, nitrogen utilization and acquisition of body mass were significantly impaired in acidotic animals compared with pair-fed controls. 5. Total nitrogen excretion was significantly increased in acidotic rats despite decreased urea production. The time course of this response to acidosis was synchronous with that of accelerated protein catabolism in skeletal muscle. 6. It is proposed that metabolic acidosis impairs growth by stimulating skeletal muscle protein catabolism. It is suggested that this forms part of a co-ordinated multi-organ homoeostatic response to acidosis, skeletal muscle and down-regulated urea production supplying the nitrogen required for renal ammoniagenesis. 
Improvement of outcome for infants of birth weight under 1000 g. The Victorian Infant Collaborative Study Group. The two year outcome of extremely low birth-weight (ELBW) infants (birth weight 500 to 999 g), born in the state of Victoria over two distinct eras, 1979-80 and 1985-7, were compared. In the 1979-80 era, 25.4% of the ELBW infants survived to 2 years of age; only 12.5% of liveborn ELBW infants survived to 2 years with no neurological disabilities. In the 1979-80 era, ELBW infants born outside the level III centres in the state were significantly disadvantaged in both mortality and neurological morbidity. By 1985-7, the two year survival rate of ELBW infants rose significantly from 25.4% to 37.9%. By 1985-7, the proportion of ELBW infants who survived to 2 years free of neurological disabilities increased from 12.5% to 26.2%. Despite the improved survival, the absolute number of 2 year old children survivors with severe neurological disabilities remained constant at 8/year in both eras. By 1985-7, fewer ELBW infants were born outside the level III centres, their survival rate remained lower, but the severe neurological disability rate in survivors was no longer significantly higher. There has been a concomitant improvement in both survival and reduction in neurological morbidity. 
CT, MRI, and autopsy findings in brain of a patient with MELAS. Brain autopsy findings in a 14-year-old patient with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes were compared with those of computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Pathologic examinations revealed extensive laminar necrosis bordered by gliotic tissues throughout the cerebral cortices. Moderate losses of myelin and fibrous gliosis were also observed in the subcortical and deep white matter. These lesions were demonstrated as low-density areas on CT and as high-signal areas on T2-weighted MRI. MRI revealed the lesions more distinctively and precisely than CT. Neither CT nor MRI could reveal abnormalities in the basal ganglia, including vascular proliferation and calcium deposits in the blood vessels. 
Effect of hyaluronic acid on postoperative intraperitoneal adhesion formation and reformation in the rat model. The local application of 0.25% or 0.4% HA before the induction of a measured laser injury on the rat uterine horn was associated with a significant reduction (P less than 0.05) in postoperative IP adhesions when compared with the group of animals pretreated with the diluent vehicle PBS or received no pretreatment. However, 0.4% HA, when applied in a similar manner, was ineffective in reducing reformation of adhesions after microsurgical adhesiolysis. 
Gaucher disease: heterologous expression of two alleles associated with neuronopathic phenotypes. To investigate the molecular basis for the distinct neuronopathic phenotypes of Gaucher disease, acid beta-glucosidases expressed from mutant DNAs in Gaucher disease type 2 (acute) and type 3 (subacute) patients were characterized in fibroblasts and with the baculovirus expression system in insect cells. Expression of the mutant DNA encoding a proline-for-leucine substitution at amino acid 444 (L444P) resulted in a catalytically defective, unstable acid beta-glucosidase in either fibroblasts from L444P/L444P homozygotes or in insect cells. This mutation was found to be homoallelic in subacute neuronopathic (type 3) Gaucher disease. In comparison, expression of the mutant cDNA encoding an arginine-for-proline substitution at amino acid 415 (P415R) resulted in an inactive and unstable protein in insect cells. This allele was found only in a type 2 patient with the L444P/P415R genotype. The substantial variation in the type 3 phenotype (L444P homozygotes) suggests the complex nature of the molecular basis of phenotypic variation in Gaucher disease. Yet, the association of neuronopathic phenotypes with alleles producing severely compromised (L444P) or functionally null (P415R) enzymes indicates that the effective level of residual activity at the lysosome is likely to be a major determinant of the severity of Gaucher disease. 
Human papillomavirus type 16 DNA in ocular and cervical swabs of women with genital tract condylomata. Human papillomavirus type 16 is associated with dysplasias and carcinomas of the conjunctiva and of the uterine cervix. To explore the relationship between cervical and ocular human papillomavirus infection, we examined DNA from bilateral limbal swabs and cervical swabs from 17 women (age range, 17 to 46 years; median, 31.7 years) with biopsy-proven human papillomavirus-related cervical dysplasia who had a normal ocular surface. Using polymerase chain reaction, we identified human papillomavirus 16 DNA in one or both eyes of 13 (76.5%) patients, six (46.2%) of whom had demonstrable human papillomavirus 16 DNA in cervical swabs as well. It thus appears that human papillomavirus 16 is present in the conjunctivae of some patients with human papillomavirus-related genital warts who have no ocular manifestations of infection. Although autoinoculation of conjunctiva may be the source of some ocular human papillomavirus, data suggest that other modes of transmission to the eye also exist. Additional study of the epidemiologic characteristics of ocular human papillomavirus, a widely prevalent virus known to be associated with dysplasias/atypias and cancer, is warranted. 
Deglutition syncope with coexistent carotid sinus hypersensitivity. A 63-year-old man had symptomatic deglutition-induced atrioventricular (A-V) block. There was also a coexistent mixed type carotid sinus hypersensitivity presenting as A-V block. No A-V nodal dysfunction was revealed during electrophysiologic studies. The vasodepressor response to carotid massage implies a central vagal hyperresponsiveness, which can also explain the cardioinhibitory responses to swallowing and carotid sinus massage, both possibly unmasked by posterior myocardial infarction. 
Tracking of elevated blood pressure values in adolescent athletes at 1-year follow-up. Resting blood pressures were measured in 467 adolescents during preparticipation physical examinations for high school sports. Fifty-seven of the athletes (12.2%) had significantly elevated blood pressures. Forty-three (79.6%) of 54 subjects demonstrated significantly and persistently elevated blood pressures at 1-year follow-up. A family history of hypertension was positively associated with elevated blood pressures in 46 (80.7%) of 57 subjects compared with controls (23/410 [5.6%]). Consistent with previous studies, subjects with elevated blood pressures had a greater body weight (94.5 +/- 25.7 kg) compared with normotensive subjects (75.2 +/- 14.0 kg). Subjects with elevated blood pressures engaged in heavy resistance weight training (three times a week or more) more often (41/57 [71.9%]) than normotensive subjects (65/410 [15.8%]). These data support the idea that blood pressures measured during routine preparticipation physical examinations for high school sports are a useful tool in screening for elevated blood pressure in adolescents. 
Seminoma of the testis in a patient with 48,XXYY variant of Klinefelter's syndrome. We believe this is the first reported case of seminoma in a patient with the 48,XXYY variant form of Klinefelter's syndrome. Moreover, the seminoma in this patient occurred in a normally descended testis. We report this case because patients with 48,XXYY Klinefelter's syndrome are often confined to institutions, where the diagnosis of testicular tumor may not be recognized as readily. 
From chimney sweeps to oncogenes: the quest for the causes of cancer. Over the past 200 years, a bewildering array of chemical, physical, and viral agents has been identified that can cause cancer, but the mechanisms involved are only now becoming clear. In the leukemias and lymphomas, it appears that the activation of cellular oncogenes is important. The genes involved are present in all normal cells and are often associated with cell growth and regulation. When activated, they act in a dominant fashion to cause a cell to express the malignant phenotype. There is increasing evidence that in solid tumors, a more important mechanism may be the loss of a suppressor gene. The classic example is retinoblastoma, in which the retinoblastoma gene has been cloned and is also found to be associated with several other common cancers including sarcomas and small cell lung cancer. It is likely to be one of a family of such genes. It may well be that the activation of one or more oncogenes or the loss of one or more suppressor genes, or both, is required for a tumor to progress from initiation through promotion to a metastasizing malignancy. 
Influence of changes in arterial carbon dioxide tension on the electroencephalogram and posterior tibial nerve somatosensory cortical evoked potentials during alfentanil/nitrous oxide anesthesia. The effects of variation of arterial CO2 tension (PaCO2) on the electroencephalogram (EEG) and posterior tibial nerve somatosensory cortical evoked potentials (PTN-SCEP) during opioid/N2O anesthesia have not been well documented. We studied the effects of hypocapnia (PaCO2 approximately 23 mmHg) and hypercapnia (PaCO2 approximately 50 mmHg) during steady-state alfentanil/N2O anesthesia in 16 patients. EEG and PTN-SCEP were recorded continuously, while PaCO2 was altered in 15-min intervals by varying the inspired CO2 concentration. Hypocapnia caused significant increases in power in the delta, theta, and beta bands (P less than 0.01), with the greatest increase observed in the alpha band. Relative power increased in the alpha band but remained unchanged in the delta, theta, and beta bands. Median frequency and 95% spectral edge frequency were unaltered during hypocapnia. In contrast, hypercapnia caused a significant decrease of power in the alpha and beta bands, whereas delta and theta power remained unchanged. This was reflected in a significant decrease of the 95% spectral edge frequency, from 8.9 (6.7-11.6) to 7.0 (5.6-8.6) Hz. All EEG parameters returned to normal upon restoration of normocapnia. There was a significant negative correlation between power in the alpha band and end-tidal CO2 in all patients (r = 0.47 to -0.89). PTN-SCEP latencies and amplitudes were not significantly different from control values during hypocapnia and hypercapnia. It is concluded that variations in PaCO2 within the limits 20-50 mmHg produce substantial changes in the EEG power spectrum, especially in the alpha band (8-12 Hz), but do not alter PTN-SCEP. 
Gastric antral vascular ectasia: a problem of recognition and diagnosis. Gastric antral vascular ectasia ('water melon stomach') is a poorly documented cause of occult upper gastrointestinal blood loss. We describe a case which emphasises the clinical and pathological difficulties that can be encountered in making this elusive diagnosis. 
A historic case of visual agnosia revisited after 40 years. In one of the seminal works on visual agnosia, Adler (1944, 1950) presented the case of a 22-yr-old woman who sustained carbon monoxide cerebral toxicity in the Cocoanut Grove nightclub diaster of 1942. We located this patient 40 yrs after injury and performed a detailed reevaluation. The patient demonstrated persistent deficits in visual recognition, characterized most prominently by defective recognition of elemental shape and form, associated with alexia, prosopagnosia, visuospatial disorientation and impaired visual imagery. Visual acuity, colour recognition, writing ability and verbal intelligence were relatively preserved. Isolated bilateral occipital injury was demonstrated by CT and MRI scanning. On comparison with previously reported cases, our results support the hypothesis that carbon monoxide toxicity can induce a visual agnosia of the apperceptive type with well defined characteristics, seldom seen with other types of cerebral injury. Prognosis for long-term recovery is poor. 
Clinical implications of combined hypogastric and profunda femoral artery occlusion. From 1983 to 1990, nine patients with combined hypogastric (HA) and profunda femoral arterial (PFA) occlusive disease presented with five nonhealing hip disarticulations, three nonhealing above-the-knee amputations, perineal necrosis in six patients, buttock necrosis in four patients, visceral ischemia in two patients, and lumbosacral spinal ischemia in one patient. Obviously some patients had more than one regional complication. Five patients died from complications of HA/PFA ischemia. Survivors included two patients who required a hemipelvectomy, one patient who required an axillary-to-hypogastric artery bypass graft for stump salvage, and one patient who survived despite lumbosacral paralysis and complete cystectomy. The 56% mortality and 100% morbidity emphasize the critical significance of combined hypogastric/profunda femoral artery circulatory compromise. Efforts should be made to preserve or re-establish the HA and/or PFA circulation whenever possible. A hemipelvectomy may be required to allow the wounds to finally heal. Furthermore, the certainty of an above-the-knee amputation healing is not present in these patients; therefore, a hemodynamic assessment of the healing potential of an above-the-knee amputation is required. 
Atrial fibrillation associated with autonomic dysreflexia in patients with tetraplegia. Atrial fibrillation is an arrhythmia characterized by disorganized atrial depolarizations and an irregular ventricular response. Most patients with atrial fibrillation have underlying cardiac pathology. This paper presents the cases of three patients with high-level spinal cord injury and symptoms of autonomic dysreflexia who developed atrial fibrillation without any cardiac or metabolic disease that would predispose them to this. The paper proposes that autonomic dysreflexia might predispose a patient to atrial fibrillation by altering the pattern of repolarization of the atria, making the heart susceptible to a reentrant type of arrhythmia. High-level spinal cord injured patients may be at increased risk for the development of atrial fibrillation, an arrhythmia which, if left untreated, can increase the incidence of an embolic cerebrovascular accident that could further impair the patient's functional status. 
Duration of ST segment depression after exercise-induced myocardial ischemia is influenced by body position during recovery but not by type of exercise. To assess whether the duration of ischemic ST segment depression after exercise can be modified by changes in body position during recovery or with different types of exercise, 18 patients with chronic stable angina, positive exercise test results, and documented coronary artery disease were prospectively studied. Every patient underwent testing with three different exercise protocols: (1) Bruce (Bruce-standing recovery), (2) abrupt onset of exercise (abrupt), and (3) modified Bruce protocol preceded by a 10-minute warm-up period (warm-up). After exercise test patients recovered in a sitting position. In addition, all patients performed a fourth exercise (Bruce protocol), but this time they recovered in the supine position (Bruce-supine recovery). Time and heart rate-blood pressure product at 1 mm ST segment depression were similar for Bruce-standing recovery, abrupt, and Bruce-supine recovery protocols (5.1 +/- 2, 4.4 +/- 2, and 5.2 +/- 2 minutes and 20.8 +/- 4, 21.3 +/- 4, and 20.4 +/- 4 beats/min x mm Hg x 10(-3), respectively. Heart rate and heart rate-blood pressure product at peak exercise did not differ in Bruce-standing recovery, abrupt, and Bruce-supine recovery. Maximal ST segment depression was -2.0, -1.9, and -2.0 mm with Bruce-standing recovery, abrupt, and Bruce-supine recovery exercise, respectively, and -1.5 mm with warm-up exercise (p less than 0.05). Duration of ST segment depression into recovery was significantly prolonged after Bruce-supine recovery exercise (9.4 + 5 minutes) compared with Bruce-standing recovery, abrupt, and warm-up protocols (6.8 + 3, 5.9 + 4, and 5.0 + 3 minutes, respectively; p less than 0.05). 
Treatment of experimental suprachoroidal hemorrhage with subconjunctival injection of tissue plasminogen activator: a negative report. Suprachoroidal hemorrhage was created in 10 albino rabbit eyes. Five eyes were treated with subconjunctival injections of 40,000 IU of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) daily for 6 days; five eyes served as controls. It took approximately the same amount of time for the suprachoroidal hemorrhages to clear in both the control and treatment eyes. We conclude that subconjunctival injection of tPA does not accelerate the clearance of suprachoroidal hemorrhage. 
A phase I study of high-dose ifosfamide and escalating doses of carboplatin with autologous bone marrow support. The dose-limiting toxicity in two separate phase I trials of the high-dose single agents ifosfamide and carboplatin was renal insufficiency at 18 g/m2 and hepatic and ototoxicity at 2,400 mg/m2, respectively. In this phase I study, 16 adults were treated with ifosfamide at 75% of the single-agent maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) (12 g/m2) and escalating doses of carboplatin (400 to 1,600 mg/m2) to determine the nonhematologic dose-limiting toxicity and the maximum-tolerated dose of the combination. Both drugs as well as mesna for uroprotection were given by continuous infusion over 4 days with an additional day of mesna (total dose per course, 15 g/m2). Autologous bone marrow support was stipulated for subsequent dose levels once granulocytes remained less than 500/microL for more than 14 days in two of three to five patients entered at a given dose level. Autologous bone marrow support was used at doses above the 400 mg/m2 carboplatin dose level. At the maximum-tolerated dose level of 1,600 mg/m2 of carboplatin, renal toxicity precluded further dose escalation. Of the five patients entered at this dose level, reversible creatinine elevation greater than 2 mg/dL (median peak, 2.6 mg/dL) was observed in three patients, and irreversible renal failure occurred in an additional patient (peak creatinine, 6.9 mg/dL. Transient gross hematuria appeared more common with the combination than with ifosfamide alone. Two patients developed severe somnolence and confusion associated with a rising creatinine. There were two complete (CRs) and four partial responses (PRs) in 14 heavily pretreated assessable patients (including four partial or complete responses in eight assessable patients with advanced refractory sarcoma, and one CR in two patients with germ cell carcinoma). Carboplatin and ifosfamide appear to have overlapping renal toxicity. Nevertheless, carboplatin and ifosfamide can be combined at 80% and 75% of the single-agent maximum-tolerated doses, respectively, with acceptable nonhematologic toxicity. Ifosfamide and carboplatin are an attractive core combination for further studies in the treatment of sarcoma, germ cell, ovarian, and lung carcinomas. 
New concepts in treatment of chronic persistent asthma. Using a stepwise protocol to control inflammation. Asthma continues to cause unacceptably high rates of disability and death, largely because the severity of disease is underestimated and patients are inadequately educated about their disease. When patients understand what happens during an asthma attack and its aftermath, they are more likely to notice important symptoms and to start or increase self-treatment appropriately. Physicians are responsible for teaching patients how to avoid precipitating factors and for discussing and writing down a self-treatment plan to follow in specific circumstances. The British Thoracic Society has suggested a stepwise protocol for drug treatment of asthma. Each patient must be evaluated individually and started at the appropriate step. 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation as therapy for primary induction failure for patients with acute leukemia. The survival of patients with acute leukemia who do not achieve a remission with primary therapy is very poor. High-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) has been shown to be effective therapy for patients with acute and chronic leukemia. Therefore, we determined the long-term disease-free survival of patients who did not achieve a remission and were then treated with high-dose therapy and bone marrow allografting from matched sibling donors. Twenty-one patients (median age, 28 years) who did not achieve a remission with induction chemotherapy were subsequently treated with allogeneic BMT. After BMT, 90% achieved a complete remission. Six died of complications of the therapy, and six patients relapsed between 27 and 448 days after BMT. Nine patients (43%; median age, 25 years) are alive between 556 and 4,174 days after BMT. The cumulative probability of disease-free survival at 10 years is 43%. This study suggests that allogeneic BMT can be an effective therapy to achieve long-term control of acute leukemia, even in those patients who do not achieve a remission with primary therapy. 
Does tremor pace repetitive voluntary motor behavior in Parkinson's disease? In patients with Parkinson's disease and in normal subjects, the influence of tremor on repetitive voluntary movement was investigated in the index finger by comparing frequency of isometric force tremor with frequency of voluntary alternating isometric contractions. Tremor frequency, measured over the range from 0 to 70% maximum voluntary force, usually increased with force. The tremor frequency band was lower and more often overlapped with the upper voluntary frequency range in patients than in normal subjects. Normal subjects could accurately produce voluntary contractions at all cue frequencies from 1 to 5 Hz. Patients could produce auditory-paced frequencies of 1 and 2 Hz, but at higher cue frequencies, their voluntary contractions were often faster or slower than the cue. The faster or "hastened" voluntary frequencies were within the tremor frequency band, whereas the slowed voluntary frequencies were below it. Maximal voluntary frequency was often greater than the lowest but always less than the highest tremor frequency. It is concluded that parkinsonian tremor may pace voluntary repetitive movements to go faster than intended with the highest tremor frequency being an upper limit for voluntary frequency. Similar mechanisms may underlie the hastened repetitive vocal responses that were also observed in the parkinsonian patients. 
Nonhealing leg ulcers: a manifestation of basal cell carcinoma. Seven patients with basal cell carcinomas presenting as nonhealing ulcers are reported. The importance of considering malignancy and taking biopsy specimens of leg ulcers that fail to respond to treatment is emphasized. 
Potassium depletion exacerbates essential hypertension. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of potassium depletion on blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension. DESIGN: Double-blind, randomized, crossover study, with each patient serving as his or her own control. SETTING: Clinical research center at a university hospital. PATIENTS: Twelve patients with hypertension. INTERVENTIONS: Patients were placed on 10-day isocaloric diets providing a daily potassium intake of either 16 mmol or 96 mmol. The intake of sodium (120 mmol/d) and other minerals was kept constant. On day 11 each patient received a 2-litre isotonic saline infusion over 4 hours. MEASUREMENTS: Blood pressure; urinary excretion rates for sodium, potassium, calcium, and phosphorous; glomerular filtration rate; renal plasma flow; and plasma levels of vasoactive hormones. MAIN RESULTS: With low potassium intake, systolic blood pressure increased (P = 0.01) by 7 mm Hg (95% CI, 3 mm Hg to 11 mm Hg) and diastolic pressure increased (P = 0.04) by 6 mm Hg (CI, 1 mm Hg to 11 mm Hg), whereas plasma potassium concentration decreased (P less than 0.001) by 0.8 mmol/L (CI, 0.4 to 1.0 mmol/L). In response to a 2-litre isotonic saline infusion, the mean arterial pressure increased similarly on both diets but reached higher levels on low potassium intake (115 +/- 2 mm Hg compared with 109 +/- 2 mm Hg, P = 0.03). Potassium depletion was associated with a decrease in sodium excretion (83 +/- 6 mmol/d compared with 110 +/- 5 mmol/d, P less than 0.001). Plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone concentrations also decreased in patients during low potassium intake, but concentrations of arginine vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide, glomerular filtration rate, and renal plasma flow were unchanged. Further, low potassium intake increased urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorus and of plasma immunoreactive parathyroid hormone levels. CONCLUSION: Dietary potassium restriction increases blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension. Both sodium retention and calcium depletion may contribute to the increase in blood pressure during potassium depletion. 
Effect of inspiratory muscle fatigue on breathing pattern during inspiratory resistive loading. The purpose of this study was to determine whether induction of either inspiratory muscle fatigue (expt 1) or diaphragmatic fatigue (expt 2) would alter the breathing pattern response to large inspiratory resistive loads. In particular, we wondered whether induction of fatigue would result in rapid shallow breathing during inspiratory resistive loading. The breathing pattern during inspiratory resistive loading was measured for 5 min in the absence of fatigue (control) and immediately after induction of either inspiratory muscle fatigue or diaphragmatic fatigue. Data were separately analyzed for the 1st and 5th min of resistive loading to distinguish between immediate and sustained effects. Fatigue was achieved by having the subjects breathe against an inspiratory threshold load while generating a predetermined fraction of either the maximal mouth pressure or maximal transdiaphragmatic pressure until they could no longer reach the target pressure. Compared with control, there were no significant alterations in breathing pattern after induction of fatigue during either the 1st or 5th min of resistive loading, regardless of whether fatigue was induced in the majority of the inspiratory muscles or just in the diaphragm. We conclude that the development of inspiratory muscle fatigue does not alter the breathing pattern response to large inspiratory resistive loads. 
Benign and malignant tumors in patients with acromegaly. Growth hormone and its principal mediator insulinlike growth factor I are known promoters of normal growth. To determine whether excessive secretion of growth hormone is associated with an increased occurrence of benign and of malignant tumors, we studied records of 87 patients with acromegaly seen in the Lahey Clinic Medical Center (Burlington, Mass) from 1957 to 1988 and compared the rate of tumor occurrence with a control group of patients with pituitary tumors (198) and with findings from a cancer registry. Patients with acromegaly had a 2.45-fold increased rate of malignant tumors (95% confidence interval, 0.98 to 5.04) compared with findings from the tumor registry. Female patients had a higher rate than male patients. The rate of carcinoma of the thyroid was excessive and previously underscribed, but the rate of carcinoma of the colon was not increased as reported by others. Among benign lesions, goiters, predominantly nodular, were seen in 25% of patients in addition to a large number of mesenchymal lesions. 
Superior vena caval obstruction in patients with gut failure receiving home parenteral nutrition. Clinical suspicion and venographic conformation were used to diagnose 15 cases of superior vena caval obstruction (SVCO) in 107 home parenteral nutrition (HPN) patients over 379 cumulative years of HPN (3.9 cases/100 patient-years). Patients with SVCO had been on HPN a mean of 51.5 months and had used 6.2 (range 1-50) central catheters, including short- and long-term, before SVCO was diagnosed. The frequency of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with SVCO was approximately the same as that in our general HPN population. Positive blood cultures were present immediately preceding the diagnosis of SVCO in 40% (six of 15) of cases. Atypical line placements were noted in two cases. The most common management strategies employed were conversion to enteral feedings in five patients and placement of a new catheter directly into the right atrium by thoracotomy in another five patients. Two of the five with right atrial catheters experienced a postpericardiotomy syndrome (fever, pericardial rub, and pulmonary infiltrates) that responded promptly to indomethacin. The most significant long-term sequela of SVCO was the need for a left jugular vein to right atrial appendage bypass in one patient with chronic venous congestion from her SVCO. Once the SVCO is confirmed, systemic heparinization provides immediate antithrombotic effect and minimizes the risk of pulmonary embolism. The use of streptokinase may result in rapid thrombolysis. 
Differential diagnosis of cystic neoplasms of the pancreas by fine-needle aspiration. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of pancreatic lesions is becoming widespread. Pathologists need to be familiar with the cytologic features of pancreatic tumors, of which cystic neoplasms are a distinct subset. Of our 31 pancreatic aspirates diagnostic of neoplasia, six were diagnosed as cystic by radiographic imaging. These cases were compared. Similar symptoms were experienced by all of these patients, although those with malignant tumors lost the most weight. Loss of border definition, ascites, and liver metastases were the only radiologic clues to malignancy. Each entity had distinguishing cytologic features. These cases illustrate the importance of knowing the clinical, radiologic, and cytologic features of pancreatic cystic neoplasms to arrive at a preoperative diagnosis and determine proper treatment. 
Pulmonary dysfunction in advanced liver disease: frequent occurrence of an abnormal diffusing capacity. PURPOSE: Abnormalities in pulmonary function have been reported in association with chronic liver disease of varied etiology. The aim of this study was to better define the frequency and nature of these abnormalities in patients who were being evaluated for liver transplantation. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a battery of pulmonary function tests and chest radiographs in 116 consecutive patients (50 men, 66 women; aged 19 to 70 years, mean 44.6 years) with severe advanced liver disease who were hospitalized specifically for evaluation for possible orthotopic liver transplantation and were able to perform technically satisfactory tests. In 17 patients, quantitative whole-body technetium-99m macroaggregated albumin perfusion scanning was also performed for assessment of possible right-to-left shunting through intrapulmonary vascular dilatations. RESULTS: The most commonly affected test of lung function was the single-breath diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO), which was abnormal in 48%, 45%, and 71% of patients who never smoked, former smokers, and current smokers, respectively. Ventilatory restriction was noted in 25% of all patients, airflow obstruction (reduced ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital capacity) in only 3%, and a widened alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient in 45%. Diffusion impairment was accompanied by a restrictive defect in only 35% of the patients and by an abnormally widened alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient in 60%. When diffusion impairment was accompanied by an oxygenation defect, it was also associated with a significantly increased right-to-left shunt fraction (mean 24.9%) assessed from quantitative whole-body perfusion imaging. On the other hand, isolated diffusion impairment unaccompanied by significant hypoxemia (noted in approximately a third of the patients with a reduced DLCO) was not associated with evidence of significant intrapulmonary shunting (mean right-to-left shunt fraction 6.7%). CONCLUSIONS: Most patients with advanced liver disease have one or more types of abnormality in lung function, a reduced DLCO being the single most common functional defect. Mechanisms accounting for the abnormality in gas transfer may include intrapulmonary vascular dilatations, diffuse interstitial lung disease, pulmonary vaso-occlusive disease, and/or ventilation-perfusion imbalance. 
Migraine headaches. Once the definitive diagnosis of migraine has been formulated, the physician has many options available for abortive and prophylactic therapy. Nonpharmacologic modalities, including behavioral modification methods such as biofeedback training, may also be considered. Migraine does not necessarily have to disrupt the lives of those afflicted. The patient with mixed headache presents a more difficult diagnostic and therapeutic problem. These patients can also be helped when the disorder is identified, and inpatient therapy for these patients may be required. 
Successful treatment of hepatosplenic candidiasis with a liposomal amphotericin B preparation. The case of a granulocytopenic patient with acute undifferentiated leukaemia and hepatosplenic candidiasis who was refractory to conventional deoxycholate amphotericin B (AmpB) and 5-flucytosine therapy is reported. He experienced severe AmpB-related side-effects, and was subsequently successfully treated with a pharmaceutical preparation of AmpB (5.7 g) entrapped in sonicated liposomes, composed of lecithin, cholesterol and stearylamine in a molar ratio of 4:3:1. Three months later, during maintenance chemotherapy, liposomal AmpB (5.1 g) was reinstituted due to the finding of biopsies positive for Candida albicans at bronchoscopy. After healing of the patient's fungal infection a left upper lobe resection was performed, which showed advanced fibrosis with signs of inflammation, but no evidence of fungal disease. Since no acute side-effects and only moderate hypokalaemia were observed, it appears that liposomal AmpB is superior to conventional AmpB treatment in granulocytopenic patients with hepatosplenic candidiasis and unbearable therapy-related side-effects. 
Incidence of heterotopic ossification after total hip replacement: effect of the type of fixation of the femoral component. The incidence and severity of heterotopic ossification after sixty-five consecutive primary uncemented total hip replacements were compared with those after seventy consecutive primary hybrid total hip replacements (consisting of an uncemented acetabular component and a cemented femoral component). All patients had had the arthroplasty because of osteoarthrosis. The sex distribution, prevalence of bilateral disease of the hip, and frequency of previous operations were similar in both groups. All of the operations were performed by one surgeon who used the same operative approach. Preoperative, immediate postoperative, and six-month follow-up radiographs were reviewed for all patients. For 90 per cent of the hips, radiographs that were made after a minimum follow-up of one year were also reviewed. In the group of patients who had an uncemented femoral component, there was a statistically significant increase in the frequency of heterotopic bone and in its severity. Either none or only class-I ectopic bone developed in 74 per cent of the hips in the hybrid group, compared with 40 per cent of the hips in the uncemented group (p less than 0.005). In contrast, class-III or IV heterotopic ossification was evident in 13 per cent of the hips in the uncemented group (p less than 0.005). None of the patients in the hybrid group needed reoperation for excision of ectopic bone, but four (6 per cent) of the patients in the uncemented group needed such a reoperation because of severe limitation of motion. 
Transduodenal exploration of the common bile duct in patients with nondilated ducts. Exploration of the small common bile duct can be technically difficult and is associated with a significant risk of ductal injury or late stricture, or both. Transduodenal common duct exploration after sphincteroplasty (TCDE/S) is an alternative method of duct exploration that avoids choledochotomy. Cholecystectomy followed by TCDE/S was performed upon 28 patients with nondilated ducts and suspected choledocholithiasis. Common duct stones were retrieved in 17 patients. Failure to retrieve stones in the remaining 11 patients was attributed to either false-positive results of cholangiography, forceful passage of stones into the duodenum during the initial insertion of a Fogarty catheter through the cystic duct or a false-negative finding at duct exploration. There was no perioperative mortality. Two patients had asymptomatic postoperative hyperamylasemia. One patient had postoperative pancreatitis, hyperbilirubinemia and cholangitis that resolved with antibiotic therapy by the eighth postoperative day. Other complications included wound infection, delayed gastric emptying, pneumonia and otitis media. The over-all morbidity rate was 28.6 per cent. Long term follow-up was obtained in all 28 patients. All patients in the follow-up group are free of recurrent biliary tract disease. TCDE/S appears to be a safe and effective method of exploring the nondilated common bile duct. 
Measurements of regional cerebral blood flow and blood flow velocity in experimental intracranial hypertension: infusion via the cisterna magna in rabbits. Cerebral blood flow velocity, as measured in the intracranial segment of the internal carotid artery by transcranial Doppler sonography via the transorbital route, and regional cerebral blood flow and volume in corresponding cortical areas, as measured by the hydrogen clearance technique, were recorded for eight New Zealand White rabbits subjected to infusion via the cisterna magna to elevate intracranial pressure. In the lower range of autoregulation, that is, at perfusion pressures between 80 and 40 mm Hg and even lower, the changes in cerebral blood flow velocity and cerebral blood flow showed a strong correlation (0.86) under conditions of standard pCO2 (PaCO2 = 35 +/- 2 mm Hg). Autoregulation was exhausted at 40 mm Hg, and the cerebrovascular resistance was minimal. Below this perfusion pressure, the cerebral blood flow and volume dropped sharply, whereas the cerebrovascular resistance gradually increased, indicating that, despite the maximally dilated resistance vessels, intracranial hypertension causes vascular resistance to increase, possibly via blocking of the venous outflow. Our results confirmed that noninvasive and easily (even at bedside) applicable measurements of changes in cerebral blood flow velocity could be a substitute for the cumbersome and expensive isotope measurements of cerebral blood flow in patients with intracranial hypertension. 
Endoscopic surgery of the vidian nerve. Preliminary report. The anatomy, surgical technique, and difficulties of endoscopic vidian neurectomy are described. The procedure was carried out on 12 patients: 8 had resistant secretomotor rhinopathy and 4 had recurrent nasal polyposis. This technique is a minor surgical procedure with symptomatic relief and minimal postoperative morbidity. 
Implications for research and policy in the treatment of hypertension. Medical considerations. Hypertension, or high blood pressure, is a disease and a risk factor. Cardiovascular risk is directly proportional to the level of blood pressure. Current therapeutic approaches include the classical medical model of detection, evaluation, and drug treatment of high-risk patients who have elevated blood pressure and also a less-well-studied population approach that seeks to manipulate environmental variables in large groups of subjects to reduce blood pressure and subsequent cardiovascular risk. Future research should center on more precise delineation of cardiovascular risk, evaluation of alternative environmental manipulations to reduce blood pressure, enhanced understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of hypertension, better matching of antihypertensive drug therapy to pathophysiology, development of new drugs that not only lower blood pressure but also provide additional benefits with minimal side effects, and finally, investigations to further our understanding of the behavioral aspects of the physician-patient encounter, as well as studies on compliance and other issues that influence therapeutic outcome. 
A randomized trial to evaluate the risk of gastrointestinal disease due to consumption of drinking water meeting current microbiological standards. BACKGROUND: This project directly and empirically measured the level of gastrointestinal (GI) illness related to the consumption of tapwater prepared from sewage-contaminated surface waters and meeting current water quality criteria. METHODS: A randomized intervention trial was carried out; 299 eligible households were supplied with domestic water filters (reverse-osmosis) that eliminate microbial and chemical contaminants from their water, and 307 households were left with their usual tapwater without a filter. The GI symptomatology was evaluated by means of a family health diary maintained prospectively by all study families over a 15-month period. RESULTS: The estimated annual incidence of GI illness was 0.76 among tapwater drinkers compared with 0.50 among filtered water drinkers (p less than 0.01). These findings were consistently observed in all population subgroups. CONCLUSION: It is estimated that 35% of the reported GI illnesses among the tapwater drinkers were water-related and preventable. Our results raise questions about the adequacy of current standards of drinking water quality to prevent water-borne endemic gastrointestinal illness. 
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma presenting as a primary tumor of the liver: presentation, diagnosis and outcome in eight patients. We report the diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic features of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in eight patients in whom the disease was seen as a primary tumor of the liver. This series illustrates the variety of situations in which lymphoma might be diagnosed: (a) abdominal pain and hepatomegaly (three cases), (b) incidental finding at evaluation of a patient with cirrhosis (two cases), (c) secondary neoplasm after treatment for Hodgkin's disease (one case) and (d) complication of AIDS (two cases). In most cases, clinical and/or radiological features were nonspecific. However, the combination of the following features must be considered as suggestive: occurrence of an apparently primary hepatic tumor in an immunocompromised patient, absence of the usual serum tumor markers and increased serum lactic dehydrogenase activity. The final diagnosis was based on histological examination of specimens obtained by ultrasonically guided liver biopsies or at surgery. All cases belonged to unfavorable histological subtypes. Immunohistochemical findings on paraffin-embedded sections demonstrated the B-lymphocyte lineage of the seven tumors available for study. In the three patients without coexisting disease, complete remission was obtained by surgery alone or combined with chemotherapy. In the two patients with coexisting cirrhosis, outcome was rapidly unfavorable, with death occurring less than 3 mo after diagnosis. Among the three immunocompromised patients, two experienced a rapid unfavorable outcome, and the remaining one was in complete remission after surgery and chemotherapy. In conclusion, primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the liver arising in patients without coexisting disease has a slow progression and might be successfully treated by surgery. 
The epidemiologic importance of dysentery in communities. This paper explores the epidemiologic importance of dysentery with use of several community studies that demonstrate its prevalence and incidence as well as its association with pathogens, nutritional status, persistent diarrhea, and death. Results of these studies showed that while watery diarrhea was most prevalent in children aged 6-11 months, the prevalence of dysentery peaked between 18 and 23 months of age. Severely stunted children were found to have significantly prolonged episodes of dysentery. Shigella and persistent diarrhea were more frequent in children with dysentery than in those with nonbloody diarrhea. A striking feature was that watery diarrhea, dysentery, persistent diarrhea, and malnutrition each account for less than 5% of all deaths among children aged less than 5 years. However, persistent diarrhea in association with malnutrition causes 13% of deaths in children aged 0-4 years and 27% of deaths in those aged 1-4 years. These data suggest that a more balanced strategy for diarrheal control is required simply because most diarrheal deaths occur among malnourished children with prolonged diarrhea, which is mainly due to dysentery. Results of the studies also suggest that methods to control dysentery in the community should focus on improved hygiene and antimicrobial treatment with use of appropriate algorithms. Recognition of the synergism between dysentery and persistent diarrhea accompanied by malnutrition is crucial in formulating effective programs for control of diarrhea. 
Embolic abscesses in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is an inherited disorder in which patients may have multiple telangiectases and arteriovenous fistulas in the skin and internal organs. Patients can suffer from a variety of serious clinical complications, including abscess formation. We report two patients in whom neurologic symptoms developed from embolic abscesses, one for whom this complication was fatal. The reported incidence and microbiologic features of this complication are similar to that of endocarditis in patients with valvular heart disease. We believe that patients with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia should receive similar antibacterial prophylaxis for procedures placing them at risk for bacteremia. 
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection The development of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is unusual in individuals with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. We present four patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. Immunophenotyping of lymph node tissue in three of these patients revealed a predominance of T-suppressor cells. Possible causes for the development of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in the presence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection are discussed. 
Splenic abscesses due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis in patients with AIDS. Among 60 patients with AIDS seen at our institution, two had splenic abscesses due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis without pulmonary tuberculosis. In both cases splenic abscess was the first manifestation of AIDS; the patients had prolonged fever and had lost weight and experienced malaise; slight hepatomegaly was noted in both instances and peripheral lymphadenopathy in one. Chest radiography gave normal results in one case and showed hilar lymphadenopathy in the other. Ultrasonographic findings were characteristic: homogeneous hepatomegaly and splenomegaly, with multiple filling defects of variable size. Diagnosis required splenectomy in one case and biopsy of cervical lymph nodes in the other. In both cases Ziehl-Neelsen staining gave positive results; M. tuberculosis grew from a culture of splenic tissue of one patient and from a culture of lymph nodal tissue of the other. There was a rapid response to antituberculous therapy. Splenic tuberculosis seems to be a distinct extrapulmonary entity in patients with AIDS. Ultrasonographic images are useful for diagnosis and follow-up. 
The clinical spectrum of hypocalcaemia associated with bone metastases. Malignancy-related hypocalcaemia has received less attention in the literature than the opposite perturbation, hypercalcaemia. Only, scarce and contradictory data exist about hypocalcaemia associated with bone metastases (BMH). We have reviewed the clinical records of 155 patients with bone metastases of solid tumours, 122 of which were followed during the whole course of the disease until death. The frequency of hypocalcaemia ranged from 5 to 13%, depending on the formula used to correct calcium values for protein concentration. BMH was almost exclusively limited to patients with osteoblastic metastases. The frequency of BMH among patients with prostate carcinoma was 13-27%, depending on the formula used. Only two of 60 patients with lytic bone lesions presented hypocalcaemia, and in both cases it was rather mild. The development of hypocalcaemia did not seem to imply a worse prognosis, at least in patients with carcinoma of the prostate. Thus, the prevalence of BMH appears to be higher than is usually considered. Adequate attention should be given to this disorder because of the potentially deleterious effects on several organ systems. 
Thalassaemia trait and myocardial infarction: low infarction incidence in male subjects confirmed. A total of 4401 subjects admitted to the Medical Division of St Camillo Hospital in Comacchio (Ferrara, Italy) over a period of 7 years were prospectively evaluated in order to determine whether the heterozygous beta-thalassaemic (HBT) could be considered as a protective factor against the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Of the total patient sample, 3954 subjects were non beta-thalasaemics (NBTs), and 447 subjects were heterozygous beta-thalassaemics (HBTs). AMI was diagnosed in 384 patients, of whom 17 individuals were HBTs and 367 subjects were NBTs. The prevalence of HBTs in this group was significantly lower than expected (4.43%, P less than 0.0001). Furthermore, an analysis by sex showed that this lower prevalence could be attributed to male patients. Moreover, only in male subjects was a significant negative correlation observed between AMI and HBT. The mean age at which AMI occurred in male HBTs was significantly higher than in male NBTs (72 +/- 2.69 vs. 63 +/- 0.7 years, P less than 0.05), while no differences were found in the mean age at which AMI occurred between HBT and NBT female subjects. This study demonstrates that the thalassaemic trait may afford some protection against the occurrence of AMI in men. 
Regional cerebral blood flow following resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock with hypertonic saline. Influence of a subdural mass. After severe hemorrhage, hypertonic saline restores systemic hemodynamics and decreases intracranial pressure (ICP), but its effects on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) when used for resuscitation of experimental animals with combined shock and intracranial hypertension have not been reported. We compared rCBF changes (by radiolabeled microsphere technique) after resuscitation from hemorrhage with either 0.8 or 7.2% saline in animals with and without a right hemispheric subdural mass. We studied 24 mongrel dogs anesthetized with 0.5% halothane and 60% nitrous oxide. In group 1 (n = 12), hemorrhage reduced mean arterial pressure (MAP) to 45 mmHg for 30 min. In group 2 (n = 12), ICP was increased and maintained constant at 15 mmHg, whereas hemorrhage reduced MAP to 55 mmHg for 30 min (cerebral perfusion pressure [CPP] approximately 40 mmHg in each group). After the 30-min shock period, 6 animals in each group received one of two randomly assigned resuscitation fluids over a 5-min interval: 1) 7.2% hypertonic saline (HS; sodium 1,232 mEq.l-1, volume 6.0 ml.kg-1); or 2) 0.8% isotonic saline (SAL; sodium 137 mEq.l-1, volume 54 ml.kg-1). Once fluid resuscitation began, ICP was permitted to vary independently in both groups. Data were collected at baseline (before subdural balloon inflation in group 2), midway through the shock interval (T15), immediately after fluid infusion (T35), and 60 and 90 min later (T95, T155). In groups 1 and 2, ICP was significantly less in animals resuscitated with HS compared to those receiving SAL (P less than 0.05). 
A randomized clinical trial of alprazolam versus progressive muscle relaxation in cancer patients with anxiety and depressive symptoms. A randomized nonblinded study was performed in three cancer centers to test over a 10-day period the efficacy of (1) a triazolobenzodiazepine, alprazolam, 0.5 mg three times a day and (2) use of a behavioral technique in which patients were trained in progressive muscle relaxation at an initial session with a behavioral psychologist and then asked to listen at home to an audiotape of the session three times a day. Of 147 cancer patients who met entry levels of distress and completed the study, uncontrolled for site or disease stage, 70 were randomized to drug, 77 to relaxation. Four measures of anxiety and depression were used: Covi, Raskin, Affects Balance, and Symptoms Checklist-90 (SCL-90). Results showed that both treatment arms resulted in significant (P less than .001) decrease in observer and patient-reported anxious and depressed mood symptoms. Although both treatment arms were effective, patients receiving the drug showed a slightly more rapid decrease in anxiety and greater reduction of depressive symptoms. These findings confirm efficacy of both alprazolam and relaxation to reduce cancer-related anxiety and depression. As safe, inexpensive, and effective interventions, physicians should consider their use in cancer patients experiencing anxiety and depressive symptoms. 
Detection and localization of prolonged epicardial electrograms with 64-lead body surface signal-averaged electrocardiography. BACKGROUND. Prolonged, fractionated ventricular electrograms often are detectable after myocardial infarction and are a marker for an arrhythmia-prone state. QRS late potentials detected on the body surface with signal-averaged electrocardiography (SAECG) are thought to arise from the diseased tissue that generates prolonged ventricular electrograms and as such are also a marker for arrhythmias. A limitation of the current SAECG technique is that recordings are obtained from only three bipolar lead pairs. Because late potentials probably arise from multiple small sources in the heart, more extensive sampling of the body surface may contribute additional information to the SAECG. The present study investigates the additional sensitivity of SAECG using 64 body surface leads in detecting prolonged epicardial electrograms and examines its use in determining the epicardial location of prolonged electrograms. METHODS AND RESULTS. Dogs were studied before and 5-10 days after either lateral left ventricular (n = 13) or right ventricular (n = 8) myocardial infarction. Greater prolongation of signal-averaged QRS duration was detected with 64-lead SAECG (postinfarction QRS duration, 100.3 +/- 16.3 msec) than with three-lead SAECG (postinfarction QRS duration, 89.4 +/- 10.1, p = 0.0005). Nineteen of the 21 dogs (90%) had prolonged epicardial electrograms detected over the infarct. The correlation between epicardial electrogram duration and signal-averaged QRS duration calculated from individual leads was much better for 64-lead SAECG (r = 0.88, p less than 0.0001) than for three-lead SAECG (r = 0.53, p = 0.01), and the difference was most marked in cases with longer electrogram durations (more than 100 msec). Local late potential maxima on the thorax after lateral left ventricular infarction were located to the left and inferior compared with those after right ventricular infarction (p = 0.006). CONCLUSIONS. SAECG with more extensive recording from the body surface using 64 leads detects greater QRS prolongation than three-lead SAECG, and the longer QRS durations detected correspond to the duration of prolonged epicardial electrograms. Body surface location of late potentials corresponds to the epicardial location of the prolonged electrograms. This application of body surface mapping techniques to SAECG may permit more sensitive detection of arrhythmia-prone states and may aid in identifying arrhythmia sources. 
Role of intraoperative enteroscopy in obscure gastrointestinal bleeding of small bowel origin. Intraoperative enteroscopy was performed in 12 patients (median age 68 years) with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding probably of small bowel origin, six of whom were men. All the patients were evaluated by routine haematological, coagulation and biochemical profiles, upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopies, visceral angiography and/or isotope scanning. All the patients were anaemic. Visceral angiography was useful on three of the 12 occasions on which it was used and isotope scanning was valuable on eight of the 11 occasions it was used. Nine patients had undergone previous laparotomy. Enteroscopy was performed successfully in all cases, with fresh blood and discrete vascular lesions being the chief findings (10 of 12 cases). Segmental resections (n = 8) and local resections (n = 2) were performed in ten patients, with two patients having more than one laparotomy for rebleeding. Five patients developed postoperative complications and there was an operative death and one late death. Three of the ten surviving patients experienced further rebleeding. Intraoperative enteroscopy is now an essential adjunct to laparotomy for gastrointestinal bleeding which has been localized to the small bowel before operation. 
Prevention of stroke and brain damage with calcium antagonists in animals. In a rat model of embolic stroke (permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery [MCAO]), various 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists have been shown to attenuate brain damage and the resultant functional impairment when administered after MCAO. Dose-response curves reveal that isradipine is one of the most potent and efficacious representatives of this class of compounds, reducing the infarct size by more than 60%. These results suggest that isradipine, when administered shortly after stroke onset, may have beneficial effects in patients suffering from brain ischemia. When isradipine is used to normalize the high blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats, it will, in addition, also protect the brain from damage engendered by a subsequent stroke. This is not the case if blood pressure is controlled with a calcium antagonist which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, suggesting that the brain protection seen with isradipine is not due to blood pressure normalization. Isradipine, when used as an antihypertensive, appears to have an additional beneficial effect within the brain itself. As high blood pressure is a major risk factor for stroke, such an additional benefit with isradipine would be particularly valuable in antihypertensive therapy. 
A prospective genetic study of complete and partial hydatidiform moles. Two hundred two hydatidiform moles were classified by pathologic features and ploidy into partial or complete moles. Further classification was made by using genetic polymorphism, the diagnosis being refined by deoxyribonucleic acid technology. Among 51 partial hydatidiform moles, 44 triploids, two tetraploids, and one diploid were identified. Informative triploid partial hydatidiform moles had one maternal and two paternal sets of chromosomes, the likely origin being dispermy. Among 149 complete hydatidiform moles, one was haploid, one was triploid, and 105 were shown to be diploid or androgenetic; 39 of these were proved homozygous, indicating duplication of the male genome, whereas heterozygous origin by dispermy was likely in 13. The locus-specific minisatellite deoxyribonucleic acid probes were particularly useful for the identification of heterozygous complete hydatidiform moles. None of the patients with partial hydatidiform moles had development of a gestational trophoblastic tumor. No difference was detected in the frequency of requirement for chemotherapy between patients with homozygous or heterozygous complete hydatidiform moles. 
Pharmacokinetics, immune response, and biodistribution of iodine-131-labeled chimeric mouse/human IgG1,k 17-1A monoclonal antibody. Pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity, and biodistribution of a 131I-labeled mouse/human chimeric monoclonal antibody (C-17-1A) was studied in six metastatic colon cancer patients. Pharmacokinetics obtained from serum radioactivity or chimera concentration were identical after 5 mCi of 131I-C-17-1A with mean alpha half-lives of 17.6 +/- 2.3 and 19.7 +/- 2.9 and mean beta half-lives of 100.9 +/- 16.1 and 106.4 +/- 14.1 hr, respectively. HPLC analysis documented the monomeric chimeric 17-1A without evidence of immune complexes or free 131I. None of the patients developed antibody after 131I-chimeric 17-1A exposure. Radiolocalization occurred in known areas of disease greater than 4 cm in all patients. The half-life of total-body radioactivity was 58 +/- 7 hr by whole-body counts and 64 +/- 13 hr by urine measurements. Whole-body and bone marrow dose estimates ranged from 0.75-1.03 and 0.76-1.05 rad/mCi, respectively. These studies confirm the prolonged circulation and reduced immunogenicity of chimeric 17-1A versus murine 17-1A. Marrow radiation exposure using antibodies with prolonged circulation is a critical factor in planning for radioimmunotherapeutic applications. 
Immunogenetic susceptibility for post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis. In 19 children with hepatic fibrosis as the result of continued schistosomiasis mansoni and 20 children without hepatic fibrosis, the following studies were carried out: HLA antigen typing for 30 antigens, immune response of T lymphocytes to schistosome antigen by measuring DNA synthesis evidenced by 3H-thymidine uptake, and measurement of total OKT3+, OKT4+, and OKT8+ cells using monoclonal antibodies. Patients with hepatic fibrosis were mostly high responders in contrast with those without fibrosis. High immune response and susceptibility to post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis were associated with a high frequency of A2 and B12 antigens and a lack of DR2 antigens, while low response was associated with the presence of the DR2 antigen. The T4+:T8+ ratio showed increased suppressor proportions in patients with low immune response and/or with no hepatic fibrosis. We suggest an immunogenetic susceptibility for post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis, probably controlled by HLA-linked genes via the suppressor T cells. 
Predictors of intracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis. Duration of cigarette smoking and hypertension are more powerful than serum lipid levels. The effect of cigarette smoking on intracranial internal carotid artery atherosclerosis (ICAS) was studied by obtaining cigarette smoking histories and data on other potential predictors, including serum lipid estimations, for consecutive patients undergoing carotid arteriography. The duration of cigarette smoking was the most significant independent predictor of the presence of ICAS. Other independently significant predictors of ICAS were hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and current systolic blood pressure. The interaction of diabetes and duration of smoking was a significant negative predictor. In patients for whom serum lipid values were available, lower levels of apolipoprotein A-I were associated with a higher risk of having ICAS. However, the effect of apolipoprotein A-I as a predictor of the presence of ICAS was far outweighted by the effects of duration of smoking and hypertension. 
The influence of contamination of culture medium with hepatitis B virus on the outcome of in vitro fertilization pregnancies. Heat-inactivated human serum is added to the culture medium used for in vitro fertilization and other forms of assisted conception. Because one batch of pooled serum contained hepatitis B virus, an epidemic occurred among women participating in the treatment program. Seventy-nine women had serologic proof of hepatitis B infection. This incident gave the opportunity to study the effect of hepatitis B virus on pregnancy outcome and the newborn. The situation is unique because the preimplantation embryo was exposed to hepatitis B virus or the pregnancy was complicated by a (sub)clinical infection. Twenty-four women were or became pregnant while having an acute hepatitis B infection. Five pregnancies ended in abortion. The remaining 19 pregnancies ended in the birth of 24 children. No evidence for any harmful effect of exposure to hepatitis B virus in the embryonic or fetal period on the newborn could be found. 
Extensive hepatic granulomas associated with peripheral T-cell lymphoma. A case of T-cell lymphoma presenting with marked hepatosplenomegaly and extensive hepatic granulomas is described. A 55-yr-old female experienced long-term liver damage showing histological triaditis with atypical lymphoid cell infiltration and erythrophagocytosis. The patient developed marked hepatosplenomegaly and eventually died of respiratory failure. Neither systemic lymphadenopathy nor hematological disorder was noted until her death. Autopsy revealed small atypical lymphoid cells positive for T-cell marker, as well as extensive infiltration of generalized organs, including the liver, spleen, and lungs. As a result of diffuse proliferation of atypical lymphoid cell admixed with variable reactive cells, mainly at the T-zone, the lymph nodes underwent effacement of normal architecture; however, the peripheral sinuses and the fibrous capsule remained relatively well preserved. These histological features were consistent with a diagnosis of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTL). It is interesting to note that there were numerous epithelioid granulomas admixed with a small number of atypical lymphoid cells within the hepatic parenchyma. The atypical lymphoid cells may be responsible for the granulomatous reaction in the liver. To our knowledge, there have been no other reported cases of PTL that presented with numerous epithelioid granulomas confined to the liver. 
Pregnancy and childbearing in a population with biologic valvular prostheses. Long-term performance of biological prostheses and course of pregnancy, labor, and delivery were evaluated in women less than 35 years of age. Between 1975 and 1987, 87 female patients received a porcine (n = 86) or pericardial valve (n = 1); the mean patient age was 26.8 years, with a range of 8 to 35 years. A total of 17 of these patients experienced 37 pregnancies. A total of 25 babies were delivered, of which 19 were babies of normal birth weight born at term and six were born prematurely (two of these were stillborn). There were six spontaneous abortions and five therapeutic abortions. The mean time from primary operation to first delivery was 29 months. Of the 17 pregnant patients, 14 were in normal sinus rhythm and three were in atrial fibrillation. One of those in fibrillation had a therapeutic abortion while receiving warfarin therapy, and another was successfully delivered of her neonate after 7 months of warfarin therapy. The remaining 15 patients were treated through 35 pregnancies without anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents. Of the total population of 87 patients, 32 (36.8%) were treated for valve-related complications. Structural valve deterioration occurred in eight patients (47.1%) of the pregnancy group and 10 patients (14.3%) of the nonpregnancy group (p less than 0.05). The freedom from structural valve deterioration at 10 years was 23.3% +/- 14% for the pregnancy group and 74.2% +/- 8.5% for the nonpregnancy group (p less than 0.05, age as a determinant, p not significant). There were eight valve-related deaths (1.5%/patient-year). Reoperation was performed in 59% of the pregnancy group and 19% of the nonpregnancy group, primarily for structural valve deterioration manifested as valvular obstruction from aggressive calcification (p less than 0.05). The freedom from reoperation at 10 years parallels freedom from structural valve deterioration (20.3% +/- 12.4% and 64.3 +/- 9.1% for the pregnancy and nonpregnancy groups, respectively, with p less than 0.05; with age added as a determinant, p not significant). The overall reoperative mortality was 8.7% (two patients). The biologic prostheses afforded successful pregnancy without fetal wastage or congenital anomalies and without significant maternal morbidity or mortality. 
Mechanisms of platelet activation: thromboxane A2 as an amplifying signal for other agonists. Thromboxane (Tx) A2 is a product of cyclooxygenase catalyzed metabolism of arachidonic acid. It is formed via prostaglandin (PG) endoperoxide intermediates (PGG2 and PGH2) by a specific synthase. PGH2 appears to exert the same biologic effects as TxA2. The cDNA for a TxA2 receptor has been cloned from a human placental library. Although pharmacologic and biochemical studies suggest the presence of multiple isoforms, this remains to be confirmed at the molecular level. A hydropathy plot of the deduced amino acid sequence of the available clone suggests that it has 7 transmembrane spanning domains, typical of a G protein linked receptor. Pharmacologic studies imply that Tx receptors in platelets are linked to phospholipase C activation via pertussis toxin insensitive G proteins. Candidates include the 42 kD Gq and the 60 kD Ge. TxA2 acts as an amplifying signal for platelet agonists and the response to this eicosanoid is tightly regulated. Mechanisms include rapid hydrolysis of the agonist to the inactive TxB2, autoinactivation of Tx synthase, rapid homologous TxA2 receptor desensitization due to receptor-G protein uncoupling, coincidental sensitization to counterregulatory Gs linked receptor systems and stimulation of prostacyclin formation by TxA2. Due to its role as an amplification signal in platelet activation, inhibition of Tx synthesis and action is an effective mechanism for preventing platelet-dependent vascular occlusion. Aspirin is of proven efficacy in this regard. Tx synthase inhibitors and antagonists are under clinical investigation. 
Risk factors for stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation: a case-control study. PURPOSE: Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated that anticoagulant therapy is very effective at preventing stroke among patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. However, these trials have reported too few strokes for powerful risk factor analysis. Observational studies may provide additional information. The purpose of this study was to identify risk factors in a larger number of patients with stroke and nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation, using case-control methodology. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We identified all patients discharged from one hospital over an 8-year period who met our case definition of nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation and ischemic stroke (n = 134), and compared them with contemporaneous control subjects who were discharged with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation without stroke (n = 131). RESULTS: Cases and controls were similar in terms of duration of atrial fibrillation; proportion with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; percentage with a past medical history of angina, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, diabetes, or smoking; and mean left atrial size. In contrast, cases were significantly older than controls (78.5 versus 74.8 years, p = 0.002) and more likely to have a history of hypertension (55% versus 38%, p = 0.0093). The relative odds for stroke was 1.91 for patients with hypertension, 1.73 for patients older than 75 years, and 3.26 for patients with both factors. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that age and hypertension should be considered when deciding upon long-term anticoagulant therapy to prevent stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. 
The relationship of pain and deformity of the rheumatoid foot to gait and an index of functional ambulation. We evaluated the relationships among pain, structural deformity of the foot, 4 variables of gait, and an index of functional ambulation in 31 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. We saw significant correlations between the ambulation index and all gait variables (p less than 0.005). For the group as a whole, pain in the foot did not correlate with structural deformity. However, when patients were grouped according to the relative preponderance of pain or deformity and duration of disease, we found correlations between the sites of pain and deformity. Pain in the lower extremity, and the knee or hindfoot separately, showed correlations with functional ambulation. Foot deformity did not correlate with functional ambulation at all. Foot pain correlated well with velocity and especially stride length (p less than 0.005), and not as well with cadence and double stance time. Fewer correlations were seen between foot deformity and gait. In general, hindfoot disease was associated with greater impairment of gait and mobility than forefoot disease. 
Effect of intravenous infusion of atriopeptin 3 on immediate renal allograft function. Thirty-eight recipients of nineteen pairs of cadaveric kidneys were entered into a double-blind randomized study in which one recipient received a 12-hour intravenous infusion of Atriopeptin III (AP-3), a synthetic analogue of atrial natriuretic factor, commencing at release of the vascular clamps, and the other received a placebo infusion. In an initial dose ranging study, successive groups of six kidneys (3 pairs) were randomized to receive each of 0.0125, 0.025, 0.05 micrograms/kg/min AP-3 or placebo. Thereafter 20 kidneys (10 pairs) received 0.1 micrograms/kg/min or placebo. There was no discernable effect of AP-3 on allograft creatinine clearance or sodium excretion either when the highest dose of AP-3 was considered alone or when all doses were considered together. Averaged creatinine clearance over the period 0 to 24 hours after transplantation was 20.1 +/- 14.7 ml/min in patients receiving active treatment and 18.2 +/- 13.7 ml/min in those receiving placebo. Thus, despite the documentation of a protective effect of atrial natriuretic factor in animal models of renal ischemia, it is unlikely that intravenous infusion of AP-3 in this dose range will be of benefit in improving immediate renal allograft graft function. 
Effect of dietary ethanol on gallbladder absorption and cholesterol gallstone formation in the prairie dog. Dietary ethanol has been reported to protect against cholesterol gallstone formation. Because enhanced gallbladder absorption of water is important in cholesterol cholelithiasis, we examined the hypothesis that ethanol acts by inhibiting the absorptive function of the gallbladder. Eighteen adult male prairie dogs were fed a lithogenic liquid diet containing 0.4% cholesterol. Half of the animals received 30% of total calories as ethanol, whereas their pair-fed controls received equicaloric amounts of maltose-dextrin. After 3 months, the gallbladders were inspected for gallstones and crystals, and gallbladder and hepatic bile were analyzed. Cholesterol stones and crystals were present in all nine controls. None of the alcohol-fed animals had stones, but four had cholesterol crystals. Gallbladder cholesterol, phospholipids, and total calcium were significantly decreased in alcohol-fed animals. In both gallbladder and hepatic bile, the cholesterol saturation index was significantly lower in alcohol-fed animals, as was the ratio of trihydroxy to dihydroxy bile salts. The ethanol-supplemented diet produced a significant decrease in the absorption of water by the gallbladder as indicated by changes in the gallbladder bile to hepatic bile ratios of the total bile salt concentration (7.29 +/- 1.25 versus 3.84 +/- 0.56; p less than 0.05) and the total calcium (3.37 +/- 0.24 versus 2.43 +/- 0.29; p less than 0.05). These findings indicate that the protective effect of ethanol may be related to its ability both to inhibit gallbladder absorption of water and to alter the composition of biliary lipids. 
High protein intake promotes the growth of hepatic preneoplastic foci in Fischer #344 rats: evidence that early remodeled foci retain the potential for future growth. The effects of successive administration, withdrawal and readministration of high protein diets (20% casein) on the promotional growth, remodeling and regrowth of aflatoxin B1-induced preneoplastic liver lesions (foci) were examined. Weanling male Fischer 344 rats were given 10 intragastric doses of aflatoxin B1 at a level of 250 micrograms/kg body weight over a 2-wk dosing period (initiation). The subsequent 12-wk period was subdivided into four feeding periods, each lasting 3 wk (promotion). Two groups of rats were fed either a 20 or 5% casein diet during all four periods; additional groups were alternately fed these diets in different sequences. Switching from the high protein diet to a low protein diet (5% casein) resulted in marked remodeling (regression) of the growing lesions to a response level similar to that in animals that did not receive the initial promotional stimulus of high protein feeding. However, refeeding the high protein diet caused significant reappearance of these lesions. The restimulated development of these remodeled lesions far exceeded lesion growth in animals receiving only the late promotional stimulus of high dietary protein. Thus, these data suggest that a second occurrence of high protein feeding promotes the growth of remodeled foci, thus demonstrating their potential for future promotional growth. 
Difference in mortality between patients treated with captopril or enalapril in the Xamoterol in Severe Heart Failure Study The double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational trial Xamoterol in Severe Heart Failure randomized 290 patients treated with captopril and 217 treated with enalapril to xamoterol or placebo. At the end of the 100-day follow-up period, the cumulative probability of survival in patients with coronary artery disease or with dilated cardiomyopathy decreased in the captopril group (90.3%) when compared with the enalapril group (97.2%). The excess mortality in the captopril group could not be related to the indexes of the severity of heart failure, such as baseline exercise duration, functional class, cardiothoracic ratio, ejection fraction or dose of diuretic drugs. Furthermore, the excess in mortality was seen in all subsets of patients examined as well as across countries. Examination of the dosing regimen used, however, suggests that insufficient daily dosage of captopril or the inadequate schedule of administration, or both, might be responsible for different degrees of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition between the enalapril and captopril groups and hence for the difference in mortality. It is important in future clinical trials to determine to what extent complete circadian angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition is necessary to provide the full benefit of this therapy in heart failure. 
A comparison of the effects of ipratropium bromide and metaproterenol sulfate in acute exacerbations of COPD. Thirty-two patients presenting with acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were entered into the following double-blind, crossover study. First (time 0), patients inhaled either ipratropium bromide (54 micrograms) or metaproterenol sulfate (1.95 mg) via a metered dose inhaler (MDI) attached to a device (Inspirease) (phase 1). After 90 minutes, they inhaled whichever of the two medications they had not received in phase 1. This is referred to as phase 2. Pulmonary function (FEV1 and FVC) was measured at time 0, and at 30, 60, and 90 minutes following phase 1 treatment, and at 30, 60, and 90 minutes following phase 2 treatment (120, 150, and 180 minutes from the start of the study). Arterial blood gas samples (n = 20) were obtained at entry into the study and 30 and 90 minutes after phase 1 medication. The groups did not differ in age, degree of airway obstruction, hypoxemia, or theophylline usage at the start of the study. In phase 1, at 90 minutes, pulmonary function in both groups significantly and similarly improved. For ipratropium, FEV1 improved from 0.62 +/- 0.08 L to 0.88 +/- 0.11 L (p less than 0.01) and for metaproterenol FEV1 improved from 0.69 +/- 0.06 to 0.92 +/- 0.09 L (p less than 0.01). There was no further improvement with phase 2 treatment for either group. Thirty minutes after inhaling ipratropium, there was a small but significant rise in PO2 (5.8 +/- 3.0 mm Hg; p less than 0.05) while metaproterenol inhalation resulted in a 6.2 +/- 1.2 mm Hg decline in PO2 (p less than 0.05). These changes were not sustained at 90 minutes. We concluded that for acute exacerbations of COPD, both ipratropium and metaproterenol are effective medications when administered via an MDI attached to a device (Inspirease). However, ipratropium may be a safer choice as it initially did not cause a decline in blood oxygenation. 
Effect of superoxide dismutase on infarct size and postischemic recovery of myocardial contractility and metabolism in dogs The effects of superoxide dismutase treatment on infarct size, postischemic recovery of contractile function and tissue content of high energy phosphates were examined in a canine model of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. Ischemia was induced by thrombotic occlusion of a coronary artery and reperfusion was achieved by intravenous thrombolysis. Average duration of ischemia was 90 min. Fifty closed chest anesthetized dogs were randomized to receive either superoxide dismutase (34,000 IU/min intravenously) or placebo, starting approximately 30 min before and continuing for 30 min into the reperfusion phase. Left ventricular ejection fraction and regional segmental shortening of the postischemic area were calculated from contrast angiograms after 4 h, 48 h and 1 week of reperfusion. Tissue content of high energy phosphates was determined from transmural biopsy after 4 h and 1 week. Infarct size was measured by planimetry of dye-stained heart slices. In the superoxide dismutase and placebo-treated groups, respectively, the mortality rate was 25% and 16%, collateral flow 20 +/- 10 and 23 +/- 18 ml/min per 100 g, area at risk 25 +/- 6% and 26 +/- 7% of the left ventricle and infarct size 28 +/- 19% and 36 +/- 27% of the area at risk. Multiple regression analysis failed to show any beneficial effect of superoxide dismutase treatment on infarct size. Left ventricular ejection fraction, regional segmental shortening of the postischemic area and tissue content of high energy phosphates recovered to a similar extent and at a similar rate in both treated and placebo groups up to 1 week after reperfusion. Thus, in this model of coronary occlusion and reperfusion superoxide dismutase treatment is of no benefit. 
Endoscopic therapy for early colon cancer: the strip biopsy resection technique. Strip biopsy is an endoscopic tissue resection technique in which a lesion and its surrounding tissues are first elevated using physiological saline. The saline solution is injected into the submucosa at the site of the lesion with the help of needle forceps. A snare is placed around the elevated tissue, which is then resected endoscopically by electrocoagulation. The specimen obtained includes both submucosal and mucosal tissues. The authors used this technique to resect a total of 71 lesions of the colon. They were classified histologically as 21 adenocarcinomas, 46 adenomas, 3 metaplastic polyps, and 1 juvenile polyp. All lesions were confirmed to be entirely intramucosal by histological examination. The strip biopsy technique permits resection of tissue down to the submucosal layer regardless of the morphological type of the lesion. This suggests that strip biopsy is an effective new form of endoscopic treatment for early colon cancer. 
Millipore analysis of valvular fluid in sterile valve malfunctions. Malfunctions of sterile shunts may result from valvular dysfunction. The cerebrospinal fluid shunt valves of 14 patients were excised during surgery for sterile shunt malfunctions. In 6 patients, the malfunction was due specifically to a valve malfunction. Cerebrospinal fluid from each valve was passed through a millipore filter, which was then stained using either hematoxylin and eosin or periodic acid-Schiff. The stained millipore filters were examined by a neuropathologist who was unaware of the cause of the shunt malfunction. Although inflammatory cells were detected in all cases, the patients with valve malfunctions were found to have numerous macrophages and giant multinucleated reactive cells within their valves, while cerebrospinal fluid from valves that had been removed during shunt revisions for reasons other than a malfunctioning valve contained only rare mononuclear cells or macrophages. No valve contained erythrocytes, fibrinous matter, neural or glial tissue, or choroid plexus. The possible causes of valve malfunction, including infection and allergic reactions, are discussed. All patients did well after simple replacement of the valve. 
Comparison of long-term survival of 1986 consecutive patients with breast cancer treated at the National Cancer Institute of Milano, Italy (1971 to 1972 and 1977 to 1978). Long-term survival of 1986 consecutive patients with infiltrating duct carcinoma of the breast treated at the National Cancer Institute of Milano (Italy) in two periods of time (1971 to 1972 and 1977 to 1978) was comparatively evaluated to verify if the evolving concepts in the management of breast cancer had an impact on survival. The authors found that 10-year survival of our patients increased from 59.4% of the first period of time to 65% of the second (P = 0.005). Both node-negative (N-) and node-positive (N+) patients had an improvement of survival rates at 10 years of the same magnitude: 6.8% and 5.9% respectively. Taking into consideration both the maximum diameter of the primary tumor and the status of axillary nodes it was found that in (1) both N- and N+ patients with a primary tumor of no more than 2 cm in greatest diameter, the improvement of survival was not statistically significant; and (2) both N- and N+ patients with a primary greater than 2 cm in maximum diameter had a better chance of survival in the second time period. 
Intravascular stents in the management of superior vena cava syndrome. Superior vena cava syndrome can be effectively palliated with the use of intravascular stents. Adjunctive modalities which may be utilized prior to stent placement are thrombolytic therapy and balloon angioplasty. Six patients with an underlying malignancy were treated with these modalities. Complete resolution of symptoms occurred in five patients, and partial resolution occurred in the sixth. Two of the patients who had initial, complete resolution of symptoms had recurrences. One involved rethrombosis of the superior vena cava which occurred twice and required percutaneous thrombectomy, and the second involved restenosis requiring a percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the SVC just distal to the stent. Both of these patients with second procedures, again, had complete resolution of symptoms. Intravascular stents are a valuable additional treatment of superior vena cava syndrome. 
Grading diabetic retinopathy from stereoscopic color fundus photographs--an extension of the modified Airlie House classification. ETDRS report number 10. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group. The modified Airlie House classification of diabetic retinopathy has been extended for use in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS). The revised classification provides additional steps in the grading scale for some characteristics, separates other characteristics previously combined, expands the section on macular edema, and adds several characteristics not previously graded. The classification is described and illustrated and its reproducibility between graders is assessed by calculating percentages of agreement and kappa statistics for duplicate gradings of baseline color nonsimultaneous stereoscopic fundus photographs. For retinal hemorrhages and/or microaneurysms, hard exudates, new vessels, fibrous proliferations, and macular edema, agreement was substantial (weighted kappa, 0.61 to 0.80). For soft exudates, intraretinal microvascular abnormalities, and venous beading, agreement was moderate (weighted kappa, 0.41 to 0.60). A double grading system, with adjudication of disagreements of two or more steps between duplicate gradings, led to some improvement in reproducibility for most characteristics. 
Linkage of a gene causing familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis to chromosome 21 and evidence of genetic-locus heterogeneity [published errata appear in N Engl J Med 1991 Jul 4;325(1):71 and 1991 Aug 15;325(7):524] BACKGROUND. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a progressive neurologic disorder that commonly results in paralysis and death. Despite more than a century of research, no cause of, cure for, or means of preventing this disorder has been found. In a minority of cases, it is familial and inherited as an autosomal dominant trait with age-dependent penetrance. In contrast to the sporadic form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the familial form provides the opportunity to use molecular genetic techniques to localize an inherited defect. Furthermore, such studies have the potential to discover the basic molecular defect causing motor-neuron degeneration. METHODS AND RESULTS. We evaluated 23 families with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for linkage of the gene causing this disease to four DNA markers on the long arm of chromosome 21. Multipoint linkage analyses demonstrated linkage between the gene and these markers. The maximum lod score--5.03--was obtained 10 centimorgans distal (telomeric) to the DNA marker D21S58. There was a significant probability (P less than 0.0001) of genetic-locus heterogeneity in the families. CONCLUSIONS. The localization of a gene causing familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis provides a means of isolating this gene and studying its function. Insight gained from understanding the function of this gene may be applicable to the design of rational therapy for both the familial and sporadic forms of the disease. 
Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in cancer of the head and neck. The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of arginine vasopressin (AVP) known as the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is characterized by hyponatremia that results from water retention attributable to persistent AVP release. It may occur in a variety of malignant and nonmalignant lesions, with small cell or oat cell carcinoma of the lung by far responsible for the largest number of these cases. Cancer of the head and neck may be a rare cause of SIADH, and only a few such cases have been reported. We describe four patients with advanced cancer of the head and neck region with coexisting SIADH. Diagnosis and treatment are reported and the literature is reviewed. The possible occurrence of SIADH in the head and neck surgical practice should be kept in mind. Since SIADH is usually transient, water restriction and parenteral sodium chloride may be sufficient in overcoming the acute phase. 
Spontaneous contrast in the pericardial sac caused by gas-forming organisms. Purulent pericarditis is a life-threatening disease associated with a variety of microorganisms. The case presented herein has unusual manifestations of contrast echoes on two-dimensional echocardiography. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of pericarditis caused by gas-forming group D Streptococcus and Klebsiella pneumoniae with pyopericardium, resulting in contrast echoes on the two-dimensional echocardiographic image. 
Validating studies for panic disorder in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries. This article describes validating studies for diagnosing panic disorder in some patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries (NCA) and chest pain. Psychiatric interviews of 94 such patients showed that 34% met the diagnostic criteria for panic disorder. Further studies showed that NCA patients with panic disorder were more disabled at 3.5-year follow-up, had more relatives with panic disorder, were more likely to suffer from major depression, and were more likely to respond to 35% CO2 challenge with panic symptoms. Because panic disorder is highly disabling but responds well to psychological and pharmacologic treatments, screening NCA patients in the cardiology population for this disorder is recommended. 
Recurrence and treatment of urinary bladder cancer after failure in radiotherapy. One hundred fifty-five patients with urinary bladder cancer who were not suitable for radical surgery were treated with full-course radiotherapy, 6600 cGy in 9 weeks, split-course. After the treatment recurrences were observed in 94 patients (60%), 49 (53%) were treated with transurethral surgery and intravesical cytostatics, local surgery, systemic cytostatics, or palliative radiotherapy. The median survivals for the patients were 33, 10, 4, and 2.4 months, respectively. The outcome of treatment for radiotherapy failures was related to the nature of the failure, ureteric obstruction, the recurrence rate, and the mode of treatment. Shrinkage of the bladder was observed in 15 patients (16%). The occurrence of bladder shrinkage was related to the increase in frequency of recurrences and of different types of treatments. 
Immunohistochemical evaluation of uveal melanocytic tumors. Expression of HMB-45, S-100 protein, and neuron-specific enolase. The authors compared the immunohistochemical reactivity of 13 uveal nevi and 20 uveal melanomas for HMB-45, S-100 protein, and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections. All 33 of the lesions were positive for HMB-45. The false-negative rates for S-100 protein and NSE were 21% and 18%, respectively. If only strongly positive reactions were considered, more than 50% of the tumors would be interpreted as negative for S-100 protein and NSE. Nevi stained with less intensity than melanomas using all three antibodies. The expression of HMB-45 appeared to be greater in active nevi than in inactive nevi. There was a weak association between S-100 protein reactivity and the ability of the uveal melanomas to metastasize (P = 0.1); however, the standard deviation of nucleolar area was a much better predictor (P = 0.02). These results indicate that pathologists will find HMB-45 to be a useful tool in differentiating uveal melanoma from nonmelanocytic tumors. 
Prevention of thromboembolic disease following total knee arthroplasty. Epidural versus general anesthesia. Seventy-two patients were randomized into a prospective clinical trial to evaluate the effects of epidural (EA) versus general anesthesia (GA) on the incidence of thromboembolic disease (TED) following total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Males received aspirin 650 mg po bid and females low-dose warfarin daily to maintain the prothrombin time at 15 to 16 seconds for pharmacologic prophylaxis against TED. Thirty-four patients had EA and 38 GA for their primary TKA. Contrast venography and ventilation-perfusion scanning were performed on the sixth, seventh, and eighth postoperative days, and these were interpreted in a blinded fashion. The mean age of the 45 males and 27 females was 64 years (range, 42-84 years). There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to hematocrit, operative time, blood loss, number of units transfused, or hospital stay. Twelve of the 34 patients (35%) receiving an EA and 10 of the 38 patients (26%) receiving GA developed TED, an overall incidence of 31% (p greater than 0.05) Fifty-three percent of the clots were located in the popliteal vein above the trifurcation or more proximal. However, the incidence of proximal vein thrombosis was significantly less in patients receiving an EA (46%) rather than a GA (64%). The incidence and distribution of clots was not affected by the type of pharmacologic prophylaxis, gender, or use of methylmethacrylate. Ten percent of the patients had a positive scan by strict criteria and were thought to have a pulmonary embolism (PE). In patients with a femoral vein clot, the incidence of PE was 67%. One bleeding complication occurred in a patient who took double the appropriate warfarin dose. 
Management of bleeding liver tumours in Hong Kong. A retrospective study was undertaken of 41 patients diagnosed as having suffered spontaneous liver rupture over a 4-year period to identify the clinical features, treatment and outcome of this complication in an area in which hepatocellular carcinoma is endemic. Two patients were excluded with a revised diagnosis of haemorrhagic malignant ascites. Of the remaining 39 patients, 37 bled from ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma, one from peliosis hepatis and multiple liver cell adenomas, and one from a malignant hepatic epithelioid haemangioendothelioma. Analysis showed that 59 per cent of patients were in shock on admission and that all but two of the 37 patients with ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma were men with cirrhosis. The association with cirrhosis was significantly higher than in a series of 45 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing elective resection during the same period (P less than 0.05). Treatment consisted of supportive care only in two patients, angiographic embolization in four, emergency liver resection in 11 of whom six died, hepatic artery ligation in 12 of whom eight died, and suture and/or packing in eight of whom six died. One patient died at laparotomy and in another patient bleeding was successfully arrested by intratumoural injection of absolute alcohol. Because of the high operative mortality of emergency surgery in these poor risk patients, prospective evaluation of emergency angiographic embolization is required. 
Autonomic dysfunction in alcoholic cirrhosis: relationship to indicators of synthetic activation and the occurrence of renal sodium retention. We investigated the occurrence of alcoholic autonomic dysfunction in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis in order to define its prevalence and relationship to renal sodium retention. Forty-seven alcoholics and 16 age-matched normal subjects were evaluated. Thirty-seven patients had liver disease (13 with and 24 without ascites), and 10 patients had normal hepatic function. Autonomic nervous system function was ascertained by skin sudomotor responses and the response of blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine concentration to upright tilt (sympathetic nervous system function), and by heart rate responses to deep breathing, Valsalva maneuver, and upright tilt (parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous system function). Heart rate responses to deep breathing and Valsalva maneuver were diminished, and skin sudomotor responses were significantly worse, in alcoholics than in control subjects. Alcoholic patients also had significantly lower supine mean arterial pressure (93 +/- 10 vs. 116 +/- 8 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.0001), and significantly greater increases in arterial pressure during passive upright tilt, than control subjects (mean increase 6.5 +/- 6.6 vs. 0.1 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, p = 0.0003). All of these findings were present to similar degrees in patients with and without liver disease and in cirrhotic patients with and without ascites. Supine heart rates, however, differed among the groups evaluated. Heart rate was significantly greater in patients with cirrhosis than in alcoholic patients without liver disease (83 +/- 11 vs. 71 +/- 13 bpm, p = 0.006), and in patients with ascites than in patients without ascites (88 +/- 12 vs. 80 +/- 10 bpm, p = 0.04). Plasma norepinephrine concentration was elevated in most patients with cirrhosis and was significantly higher in patients with ascites than in patients without ascites (789 +/- 238 vs. 388 +/- 185 pg/ml, p less than 0.0001; nl range: 65-320 pg/ml). Autonomic nervous system function is similarly impaired in alcoholics with and without liver disease. Patients with cirrhosis also have increased heart rate and elevated plasma norepinephrine concentration, abnormalities that are most pronounced in patients with sodium retention. Their is uncertainty as to the stimulus for norepinephrine release, and its source, in these patients. However, the similarity of supine blood pressure in patients with and without ascites and the occurrence of orthostatic hypertension rather than orthostatic hypotension following upright tilt suggest that arterial underfilling is not responsible. 
Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and temporal lobe epilepsy. The concomitant finding of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and temporal lobe epilepsy raises the issue of whether or not these entities are related. The case presented herein is one such example. The possible pathophysiologic basis of infertility and temporal lobe epilepsy is reviewed. 
Atrial fibrillation associated with autonomic dysreflexia in patients with tetraplegia. Atrial fibrillation is an arrhythmia characterized by disorganized atrial depolarizations and an irregular ventricular response. Most patients with atrial fibrillation have underlying cardiac pathology. This paper presents the cases of three patients with high-level spinal cord injury and symptoms of autonomic dysreflexia who developed atrial fibrillation without any cardiac or metabolic disease that would predispose them to this. The paper proposes that autonomic dysreflexia might predispose a patient to atrial fibrillation by altering the pattern of repolarization of the atria, making the heart susceptible to a reentrant type of arrhythmia. High-level spinal cord injured patients may be at increased risk for the development of atrial fibrillation, an arrhythmia which, if left untreated, can increase the incidence of an embolic cerebrovascular accident that could further impair the patient's functional status. 
Reaction of human non-collagenous polypeptides with coeliac disease autoantibodies. We identified and purified six human noncollagenous protein molecules that specifically bind to serum IgA from patients with coeliac disease, and which as a combination can act as true antigen to reticulin antibodies. In affinity chromatography, the purified human protein molecules removed antibodies against reticulin and endomysium from serum samples of coeliac disease patients. We postulate that an autoimmune mechanism operates in generating the jejunal damage in gluten-sensitive enteropathy and that the human protein molecules described here act as self-antigens in the disease. 
Stress-induced elevations of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor-active steroids in the rat brain. A 3 alpha-hydroxy A-ring-reduced metabolite of progesterone, 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone), and one of deoxycorticosterone (DOC), 3 alpha,21-dihydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20- one (allotetrahydroDOC), are among the most potent known ligands of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors designated GABAA in the central nervous system. With specific radioimmunoassays, rapid (less than 5 min) and robust (4- to 20-fold) increases of allopregnanolone and allotetrahydroDOC were detected in the brain (cerebral cortex and hypothalamus) and in plasma of rats after exposure to ambient temperature swin stress. Neither steroid was detectable in the plasma of adrenalectomized rats either before or after swim stress. However, allopregnanolone, but not allotetrahydroDOC, was still present in the cerebral cortex (greater than 3 ng/g) after adrenalectomy. These data demonstrate the presence of allopregnanolone and allotetrahydroDOC in brain and show that acute stress results in a rapid increase of these neuroactive steroids to levels known to modulate GABAA receptor function. 
Granulomatous peritonitis and appendicitis of food starch origin. Two patients with food starch granulomatous reactions, one a necrotising granulomatous peritonitis after the perforation of a gastric ulcer and the other a non-necrotising granulomatous appendicitis, are described. The possibility of food starch induced inflammation must be considered in the differential diagnosis of granulomatous diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. 
Early spontaneous hematoma in cerebral infarct: is primary cerebral hemorrhage overdiagnosed? We identified 15 patients (63 +/- 8 years) in whom CT showed no bleeding within 6 hours of stroke onset but showed ganglionic or lobar hemorrhage less than 18 hours later, without visible underlying infarct (early spontaneous intra-infarct hematoma [ESIH]). No patient had antithrombotic therapy or a coagulation disorder, but eight had hypertension. The second CT was prompted by rapid worsening (in 10) or because the first CT was not available (in five). Prior transient ischemic attacks, silent infarcts on CT, and a potential cardiac source of embolism were more common in patients with ESIH than in 200 patients with primary cerebral hemorrhage (PCH) admitted during the same period. Distal occlusions were present in four of five patients who underwent intracranial studies within the first 2 days. Most of these patients probably had embolism with early and extensive bleeding in the ischemic area. Our findings suggest that ESIH may be under-recognized, while PCH may be overdiagnosed. 
Temper tantrums. Temper tantrums are a normal response to anger and occur commonly in the child between one and four years of age. They arise from the child's thwarted efforts to exercise mastery and autonomy. Tantrums occur more frequently in the active, determined child who has abundant energy. Parenting practices that may encourage tantrums include inconsistency, unreasonable expectations, excessive strictness, overprotectiveness and overindulgence. Boredom, fatigue, hunger or illness may reduce the child's tolerance for frustration. Management consists of teaching the parents to understand the underlying meaning of tantrums and to modify parental behaviors that may perpetuate or accentuate the problem. Temper tantrums are best handled by ignoring the outburst, offering nurturance to the child after the tantrum has subsided and helping the child learn to express negative feelings in more acceptable ways. 
Importance of bile acid structure in amelioration of griseofulvin-induced murine protoporphyric hepatopathy. This study investigated the effects of bile acid structure on griseofulvin-induced murine hepatopathy and explored the mechanism(s) of cholestasis in this model of protoporphyria. Mice were fed pulverized chow with cholate, chenodeoxycholate, or ursodeoxycholate, with or without griseofulvin. After 1 to 4 weeks, bile flow, bile acid excretion and composition, biliary protoporphyrin excretion, hepatic protoporphyrin contents, liver histology, and griseofulvin plasma concentrations were determined. Additionally, bile acid absorption was measured. Griseofulvin induced a progressive increase in liver weight, hepatic protoporphyrin content, and histopathologic evidence of cholestasis. Biliary protoporphyrin excretion increased and pigmented gallbladder microliths developed. Bile flow and bile acid excretion fell in relation to liver weight but not in relation to body weight. Cholic acid augmented biliary protoporphyrin excretion, markedly reduced hepatic protoporphyrin content, and obviated the development of intrahepatic biliary thrombi. Ursodeoxycholate and chenodeoxycholate both reduced biliary protoporphyrin excretion. This was associated with bile acid compositional changes, particularly a fall in cholic acid. Although histopathologic abnormalities were not altered, these bile acids reduced hepatic protoporphyrin contents. Bile acid treatments with griseofulvin all increased bile flow and bile acid excretion relative to controls, but differences in the relationship of bile flow to bile acid structure on protoporphyrin disposition. They document biliary excretion as the principal mode of cholic acid amelioration of griseofulvin-induced hepatopathy. They also suggest distinctive roles for griseofulvin and protoporphyrin in the generation of the cholestasis. 
The hypotensive activity of Crotalus atrox (western diamondback rattlesnake) venom: identification of its origin. Viperidae snakes belonging to the genus Crotalus, subfamily Crotalinae, include the species durissus terrificus, durissus durissus, adamanteus, atrox, cerastes, horridus, molossus, scutulatus, viridis and others. All of them, except for the first 2, are found in North America. Crotalus atrox, or diamondback rattlesnakes, live in the southwest United States and in Mexico. This paper describes the fractionation of C. atrox venom in order to isolate and identify its hypotensive agents. 
A controlled trial comparing foscarnet with vidarabine for acyclovir-resistant mucocutaneous herpes simplex in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The AIDS Clinical Trials Group. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Most strains of herpes simplex virus that are resistant to acyclovir are susceptible in vitro to both foscarnet and vidarabine. We conducted a randomized trial to compare foscarnet with vidarabine in 14 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and mucocutaneous herpetic lesions that had been unresponsive to intravenous therapy with acyclovir for a minimum of 10 days. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either foscarnet (40 mg per kilogram of body weight intravenously every 8 hours) or vidarabine (15 mg per kilogram per day intravenously) for 10 to 42 days. In the isolates of herpes simplex virus we documented in vitro resistance to acyclovir and susceptibility to foscarnet and vidarabine. RESULTS. The lesions in all eight patients assigned to foscarnet healed completely after 10 to 24 days of therapy. In contrast, vidarabine was discontinued because of failure in all six patients assigned to receive it. The time to complete healing (P = 0.01), time to 50 percent reductions in the size of the lesions (P = 0.01) and the pain score (P = 0.004), and time to the end of viral shedding (P = 0.006) were all significantly shorter in the patients assigned to foscarnet. Three patients had new neurologic abnormalities while receiving vidarabine. No patient discontinued foscarnet because of toxicity. Although initial recurrences of herpes simplex infection after the index lesion had healed tended to be susceptible to acyclovir, acyclovir-resistant infection eventually recurred in every healed patient, a median of 42.5 days (range, 14 to 191) after foscarnet was discontinued. CONCLUSIONS. For the treatment of acyclovir-resistant herpes simplex infection in patients with AIDS, foscarnet has superior efficacy and less frequent serious toxicity than vidarabine. Once the treatment is stopped, however; there is a high frequency of relapse. 
Rapid localization of indium-111-labeled inhibited recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in a rabbit thrombosis model. The thrombus localizing properties of indium-111-recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (111In-rt-PA) have been investigated in an effort to achieve prompt and accurate detection of thrombi. Unlike previous studies with rt-PA, the active plasminogen catalytic site was permanently inhibited with peptides of chloromethyl ketone so that the radiotracer binds to fibrin without causing fibrinolysis. Thrombi were created in the external jugular vein of 14 male New Zealand white rabbits followed by injection of 111In-rt-PA. The agent cleared rapidly in vivo with a half-time of 4.6 min. The thrombus: blood ratio in nonheparinized rabbits (n = 7) was 6.39 +/- 0.86. The ratio in heparinized rabbits (n = 4) was 3.11 +/- 0.23. Thrombi were clearly visible in the planar images of both groups 1 hr postinjection. The combination of rapid thrombus localization and positive images, especially in the presence of anticoagulation, suggests that further work is warranted with rt-PA thrombus imaging. 
Occurrence of resting tremor in Parkinson's disease. Several previous studies have noted that resting tremor (RT) is absent in 10% to 30% of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients. We report our 22-year observations in 47 pathologically verified parkinsonian patients. In all the IPD cases with median follow-up of 3.7 years, RT was noted on at least one evaluation. Among other parkinsonian syndrome variants characterized by widespread subcortical pathology with median follow-up of 2.86 years, RT was seen in 31% of the cases. Our data indicate that the sites typically involved in IPD are sufficient to produce RT. 
Diagnosis and management of purulent pericarditis. Experience with pericardiectomy. Twelve cases of purulent pericarditis seen over 6 years are described. Staphylococcus aureus was the most common causative organism (six patients), and a respiratory infection was the most common preceding illness. The chest radiograph and echocardiogram were useful pointers to the diagnosis, but the electrocardiogram was not reliable. Antibiotics, surgical drainage, and pericardiectomy were used in all 12 cases. There was one death (8.3%), which occurred in a patient who was seen late. A review of the literature dealing with the diagnosis and management of this condition is presented. The importance of early diagnosis before a significant degree of cardiac tamponade occurs is noted. Although there is general agreement that surgical drainage is mandatory, the approach, methods of drainage, and extent of pericardial resection have been the subject of some discussion, and at least seven techniques are available. We conclude that pericardiectomy has a definite place in the management of purulent pericarditis. 
Recurrence of hepatitis C virus infection after orthotopic liver transplantation. Identification of the hepatitis C virus--the main cause of posttransfusion and sporadic non-A, non-B hepatitis--and the development of a diagnostic serological test have allowed us to study possible recurrence of this type of hepatitis after liver transplantation. Six of 34 consecutive transplant recipients were found to have had antibodies to hepatitis C before transplantation. All six patients had possible exposure to hepatitis C through blood transfusion or intravenous drug use. Five of the six patients were positive for antibodies to hepatitis C after 1 yr of follow-up. Two of these patients had clinical and histological evidence of acute viral hepatitis in their allografts. In one patient this led to hepatic injury and dysfunction of two successive grafts. In contrast, none of the twenty-eight patients who were seronegative for hepatitis C virus antibodies before transplantation has converted to seropositivity after transplantation despite perioperative blood transfusions. These results suggest that hepatitis C diagnosed serologically recurs in a minority of transplant recipients and that de novo seroconversion must be uncommon. 
Fingerstick glucose determination in shock. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the accuracy of fingerstick glucose measurements in severely hypotensive patients. DESIGN: Prospective, nonrandomized comparison study. SETTING: Emergency department in a university hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-five severely hypotensive patients (systolic blood pressure less than or equal to 80 mm Hg) and 39 normotensive patients. MEASUREMENTS: Simultaneous fingerstick reagent strip glucose, venous reagent strip glucose, and laboratory glucose values were compared. Data were analyzed using error-grid analysis. RESULTS: In hypotensive patients, the mean fingerstick glucose values were significantly lower than the values obtained either by venous reagent strip or laboratory glucose measurements. Fingerstick glucose values in the hypotensive group were 67.5% of laboratory glucose values, and were significantly lower than the values obtained in the normotensive group (91.8%, P less than 0.001). Only 36% of the hypotensive patients had fingerstick glucose values within the acceptable range of 20% of the laboratory glucose value. Thirty-two percent of hypotensive patients were incorrectly diagnosed as hypoglycemic (glucose less than 3.89 mmol/L [70 mg/dL]); 2 of these patients were actually hyperglycemic (glucose greater than 11.10 mmol/L [200 mg/dL]). Venous reagent strip measurements accurately reflected laboratory glucose values in both hypotensive and normotensive patients. CONCLUSIONS: Fingerstick glucose testing does not accurately represent venous glucose levels in severely hypotensive patients. If fingerstick glucose testing is relied on for these patients, errors in clinical management may be made. Venous reagent strip glucose testing correlates well with laboratory glucose measurements and should be the preferred method for rapid assessment of glucose level in critically ill patients with severe hypotension. 
Tinnitus suppression by cochlear implants. The beneficial effects of cochlear implants on tinnitus have been noted in several studies, but few detailed appraisals of the phenomenon have been made. Six patients fitted with the UCSF/Storz cochlear implant device were studied. The effects of use of the implant device on tinnitus were monitored, and suppression of tinnitus was tracked throughout periods of stimulation and poststimulation. Tinnitus was effectively suppressed in five of six patients with the device on and with noise input, and reduction of perceived tinnitus loudness occurred in four of six with the device on but without acoustic input to the speech processor. Unilateral stimulation frequently resulted in bilateral tinnitus suppression. These studies reveal that profound tinnitus suppression is obtained by patients using their cochlear implants. Further work is required to quantify the optimal mode of stimulation, but these findings suggest that tinnitus sufferers may ultimately benefit from development of electrical stimulation tinnitus suppression devices. 
Successful treatment of hepatosplenic candidiasis with a liposomal amphotericin B preparation. The case of a granulocytopenic patient with acute undifferentiated leukaemia and hepatosplenic candidiasis who was refractory to conventional deoxycholate amphotericin B (AmpB) and 5-flucytosine therapy is reported. He experienced severe AmpB-related side-effects, and was subsequently successfully treated with a pharmaceutical preparation of AmpB (5.7 g) entrapped in sonicated liposomes, composed of lecithin, cholesterol and stearylamine in a molar ratio of 4:3:1. Three months later, during maintenance chemotherapy, liposomal AmpB (5.1 g) was reinstituted due to the finding of biopsies positive for Candida albicans at bronchoscopy. After healing of the patient's fungal infection a left upper lobe resection was performed, which showed advanced fibrosis with signs of inflammation, but no evidence of fungal disease. Since no acute side-effects and only moderate hypokalaemia were observed, it appears that liposomal AmpB is superior to conventional AmpB treatment in granulocytopenic patients with hepatosplenic candidiasis and unbearable therapy-related side-effects. 
Localization of metallothionein in hair follicles of normal skin and the basal cell layer of hyperplastic epidermis: possible association with cell proliferation. Metallothionein is a low-molecular-weight metal-binding protein. Although it is inducible by a variety of agents and ubiquitously present in many tissues, its physiologic functions are still not clear. The present study was undertaken to determine the possible functions of metallothionein in both the proliferation and differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes. Metallothionein was detected immunohistochemically in hair matrix cells of the bulb and cells of the outer root sheath of anagen hair follicles, but not in dermal papillae in normal skin in the back of mice. In hyperplastic epidermal tissue, induced by either a phorbol ester tumor promoter or cholera toxin, the basal cells of the interfollicular epidermis stained strongly for metallothionein. Elevated expression of mRNA of the metallothionein gene was also demonstrated when the skin was stimulated by agents that induced hyperplasia. Papillomas produced by two-stage carcinogenesis protocols also stained for metallothionein. These observations suggest that metallothionein is involved in the proliferation of epidermal keratinocytes. 
Syndrome X and hyperventilation. The cardiorespiratory responses to exercise and forced hyperventilation were measured in 17 unselected patients with syndrome X (angina, positive exercise test, normal coronary arteriogram, no other cardiovascular disease) and compared with those in 15 healthy subjects. Forced hyperventilation produced hypocapnia and metabolic alkalosis but no chest pain or electrocardiographic change. Patients with syndrome X showed reduced maximum oxygen consumption with an increased respiratory exchange ratio at peak exercise, confirming that exercise was limited by skeletal muscle perfusion--and thus that the increase in cardiac output with exercise is limited in syndrome X as in heart failure. Arterial carbon dioxide tension (PCO2) homoeostasis during exercise was normal but the ventilatory cost of carbon dioxide excretion was increased in syndrome X (as in heart failure). End tidal PCO2 measurements correlated only poorly with arterial PCO2 in individual patients with syndrome X, providing a possible explanation for previous reports, based on end tidal PCO2 of inappropriate hyperventilation. Patients with syndrome X did not show inappropriate hyperventilation but they did show hyperventilation that was appropriate to maintain normal arterial PCO2 in the face of reduced cardiac reserve. 
Postoperative sepsis: reexplore or observe? Accurate indication from diagnostic abdominal paracentesis. OBJECTIVE: To determine if postoperative diagnostic abdominal paracentesis is a useful clinical tool in the abdominal evaluation of the critically ill septic patient. DESIGN: Retrospective review. SETTING: Surgical ICU patients in a Veterans Administration medical center. PATIENTS: Ten patients were studied from a total of 1,053 patients admitted to the surgical ICU between September 1985 and May 1989. INTERVENTIONS: Diagnostic abdominal paracentesis performed by the open or closed approaches. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Results are presented in three patient groups (A, B, and C): Group A (n = 4) had positive diagnostic abdominal paracentesis. Abdominal causes for the sepsis were found at reexploration. One of these four patients survived. Group B (n = 3) had negative diagnostic abdominal paracentesis. No abdominal septic source was found at reexploration; all three patients died. In group C (n = 3), diagnostic abdominal paracentesis was negative, patients were not reexplored, and all survived. Diagnostic accuracy correlated with three variables: a) the gross appearance and smell of the fluid, b) WBC count greater than 5000 or less than 500/mm3, and c) Gram stain demonstrating bacterial organisms. CONCLUSIONS: Diagnostic abdominal paracentesis proved accurate, reliable, simple, safe, and rapid in evaluating the abdomen in the postoperative septic patient. The use of this procedure should be considered in postoperative septic patients in whom an abdominal source for the sepsis needs to be excluded. 
A single intravenous infusion of gamma globulin as compared with four infusions in the treatment of acute Kawasaki syndrome BACKGROUND. Treatment of acute Kawasaki syndrome with a four-day course of intravenous gamma globulin, together with aspirin, has been demonstrated to be safe and effective in preventing coronary-artery lesions and reducing systemic inflammation. We hypothesized that therapy with a single, very high dose of gamma globulin would be at least as effective as the standard regimen. METHODS. We conducted a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial involving 549 children with acute Kawasaki syndrome. The children were assigned to receive gamma globulin either as a single infusion of 2 g per kilogram of body weight over 10 hours or as daily infusions of 400 mg per kilogram for four consecutive days. Both treatment groups received aspirin (100 mg per kilogram per day through the 14th day of illness, then 3 to 5 mg per kilogram per day). RESULTS. The relative prevalence of coronary abnormalities, adjusted for age and sex, among patients treated with the four-day regimen, as compared with those treated with the single-infusion regimen, was 1.94 (95 percent confidence limits, 1.01 and 3.71) two weeks after enrollment and 1.84 (95 percent confidence limits, 0.89 and 3.82) seven weeks after enrollment. Children treated with the single-infusion regimen had lower mean temperatures while hospitalized (day 2, P less than 0.001; day 3, P = 0.004), as well as a shorter mean duration of fever (P = 0.028). Furthermore, in the single-infusion group the laboratory indexes of acute inflammation moved more rapidly toward normal, including the adjusted serum albumin level (P = 0.004), alpha 1-antitrypsin level (P = 0.007), and C-reactive protein level (P = 0.017). Lower IgG levels on day 4 were associated with a higher prevalence of coronary lesions (P = 0.005) and with a greater degree of systemic inflammation. The two groups had a similar incidence of adverse effects (including new or worsening congestive heart failure in nine children), which occurred in 2.7 percent of the children overall. All the adverse effects were transient. CONCLUSIONS. In children with acute Kawasaki disease, a single large dose of intravenous gamma globulin is more effective than the conventional regimen of four smaller daily doses and is equally safe. 
Natural history and effectiveness of aspirin in asymptomatic patient with cervical bruits. The Asymptomatic Cervical Bruit Study Group. We report a multicenter study in progress involving a prospective follow-up of asymptomatic patients with cervical bruits. The project consists of two components. All patients meeting clinical criteria for eligibility undergo duplex ultrasonography at the time of entry into the study. Those with a carotid stenosis of 50% or greater are enrolled in a randomized placebo-controlled trial of aspirin. All other patients are followed up in a natural history study, also involving biannual clinical and duplex ultrasonographic examinations. Both clinical and anatomic outcomes are assessed. The project consists of a 3-year accrual phase and a 3-year follow-up phase with completion planned for May 1994. Total anticipated enrollment is 588 patients. 
Severe late postsplenectomy infection. In all, 1490 patients underwent splenectomy in Western Australia between 1971 and 1983, giving 7825 person years exposure. Thirty-three patients developed severe late postsplenectomy infection (septicaemia, meningitis or pneumococcal pneumonia requiring hospitalization) and three developed overwhelming postsplenectomy infection. The incidence and mortality rates of severe late postsplenectomy infection were 0.42 and 0.08 per 100 person years exposure respectively and for overwhelming postsplenectomy infection the incidence and mortality rates were 0.04 per 100 person years exposure. There were 628 splenectomies after trauma, giving 3922 person years exposure. Eight patients developed severe late postsplenectomy infection of whom one had overwhelming postsplenectomy infection. Following trauma, the incidence of severe late postsplenectomy infection was 0.21 per 100 person years exposure, with the incidence and mortality rates of overwhelming postsplenectomy infection being 0.03 per 100 person years exposure. Patients undergoing splenectomy have a 12.6-fold increased risk of developing late septicaemia compared with the general population. Splenectomy following trauma gives an 8.6-fold increased risk of late septicaemia. The majority of severe late postsplenectomy infections did not occur within the first 2 years and 42 per cent of severe late postsplenectomy infections occurred greater than 5 years after splenectomy. The low incidence of severe late postsplenectomy infection and overwhelming postsplenectomy infection makes statistical evaluation of the effectiveness of prophylactic antibiotics, vaccination and splenic repair most difficult. 
Risk of neoplasia and malignancy in "dominant" thyroid swellings. OBJECTIVE--To determine the risk of neoplasia and malignancy in "dominant" thyroid swellings. DESIGN--Prospective analysis during six years. SETTING--Thyroid clinic serving the Grampian region. PATIENTS--574 consecutive patients presenting with a discrete thyroid swelling, of whom 179 (31%) were classified clinically as having a dominant area of enlargement within a multinodular gland. RESULTS--After clinical and cytological assessment 77 dominant swellings were excised. Of the excised swellings, 45 were non-neoplastic and 32 neoplastic, including 11 malignant lesions. The minimum incidence of neoplasia and malignancy in all 179 dominant swellings was therefore 18% and 6% respectively. CONCLUSION--Dominant thyroid swellings should be regarded with greater clinical suspicion than has been traditional. 
Idazoxan treatment in progressive supranuclear palsy. To confirm the preliminary report that increases in norepinephrine neurotransmission improve motor performance, we administered the investigational drug idazoxan (IDA) to nine patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) according to a double-blind crossover protocol. There were seven women and two men, whose mean age was 70 years and mean duration of illness 4 years. All had an advanced parkinsonian syndrome, supranuclear ocular motor palsies, and poor responses to dopaminergic drugs. During administration of 40 mg tid of IDA, the total score and the motor subscale score of the United Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale significantly decreased. Features that improved most included mobility, balance, gait, and measures of digital dexterity. There were no significant changes in any measure during placebo administration. Corticobulbar manifestations and eye movements were not significantly improved during treatment. Side effects of IDA included transient hypertension, tachycardia, action tremor, flushing, and sweating, but none was so severe that any patient withdrew from the study. Among the few attempted treatments of PSP, IDA is the first medication shown in a double-blind study to improve aspects of motor function. 
Clinical characteristics of acromegalic patients whose pituitary tumors contain mutant Gs protein. Activating mutations in the gene for the alpha-chain of Gs, the stimulatory regulator of adenylyl cyclase, have been identified in human GH-secreting pituitary tumors. Using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, we screened 25 GH-secreting tumors for the presence of the activating mutations. We also reviewed the clinical charts of the patients from whom the tumors were removed. Of 25 tumors, 10 (40%) contained activating mutations. Patients in the mutation-positive group came to surgery with smaller tumors and had lower GH levels. The activating mutations identify a subgroup of GH-secreting pituitary tumors that probably arise from a shared oncogenic mechanism. 
Peak expiratory flow rate and the acute chest syndrome in homozygous sickle cell disease. The peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) was studied in 20 matched pairs of children with homozygous sickle cell disease with either no episodes or six or more episodes of acute chest syndrome. The pairs were carefully matched for height and a highly significant reduction in PEFR was observed in children with multiple episodes of acute chest syndrome. Lateral and anteroposterior chest diameters and chest circumference correlated with PEFR but did not differ between index and control cases. The most likely cause of the reduced PEFR in children with multiple episodes of acute chest syndrome is an accumulating pulmonary fibrosis that decreases lung compliance. 
Induction of the protooncogene c-fos and recovery of cytosolic adenosine triphosphate in reperfused liver after transient warm ischemia: effect of nitrone free-radical spin-trap agents. Ischemia and reperfusion stimulate several adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent processes involving release of substances including free radicals. This cellular response is mediated through receptors responsive to transcriptional products of gene expression; c-fos acts as a transcriptional factor involved in the regulation of genes associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. We hypothesized that nitrone free-radical spin traps promote restoration of cytosolic ATP during reperfusion and prevent c-fos induction. Four control rats had no ischemia. Global hepatic ischemia was induced in 19 rats in four groups: saline solution, phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN), alpha 1-pyridyl-N-oxide N-tert-butyl nitrone (POBN), and 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO). ATP and intracellular pH were measured at intervals before, during, and after ischemia. At 90 minutes of reperfusion, liver c-fos mRNA was measured. A fourfold elevation of c-fos occurred in the saline-treated group (p less than 0.001). PBN and POBN groups did not differ from the saline group. DMPO resulted in significantly less induction of c-fos than did NS. ATP depletion and recovery in all treatment groups was similar to that of the saline group. We conclude that (1) nitrone spin traps do not prevent c-fos induction or alter the pattern of ATP recovery after hepatic ischemia and reperfusion and (2) c-fos induction is not necessary for restoration of ATP, but the rate of ATP restoration is inversely related to c-fos induction. 
Anaesthesia-free extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in patients with renal calculi. Modern extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy can be performed with combined ECG and respiratory triggered shock wave release. Disconnecting the ECG triggering increases the risk of ventricular arrhythmias, including potentially malignant ones. The aim of this study was to assess the relationship of any sympatho-adrenal excitation as a possible explanation for the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmia. Plasma catecholamine levels were assessed in 5 patients during and after 50 min of anaesthesia-free extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for the treatment of calculi in the upper pole of the left kidney. Venous blood sampling showed no significant increase in catecholamines (epinephrine, norepinephrine and dopamine) during or after treatment. The heart rate and arterial blood pressure were measured simultaneously and showed no significant increase when shock waves were released during ECG triggering. However, when disconnecting the ECG-triggering mode, the incidence of ventricular extrasystoles on Holter monitoring became more apparent during respiratory triggered shock wave release only, although there was no rise in plasma catecholamine levels. These data suggest that cardiac arrhythmias are related to direct and accidental mechanical stimulation of the heart rather than to any sympatho-adrenal discharge during shock wave release. 
Intracisternal recombinant tissue plasminogen activator after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Fifteen patients undergoing surgery within 48 hours of aneurysm rupture were administered recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) directly into the basal subarachnoid cisterns after minimal surgical clot removal and aneurysm clipping. Preoperatively, 13 patients had diffuse or localized thick subarachnoid blood clots on computerized tomography (CT), and two had diffuse thin clots. The rt-PA was given as a single intraoperative injection of 7.5 mg (one patient), 10 mg (nine patients), or 15 mg (five patients). Postoperative cisternal drainage was employed in three patients. All patients except one demonstrated partial to complete cisternal clot clearance on CT scans within 24 hours after surgery. The patient who showed no clot reduction was the only patient in this series to develop symptomatic vasospasm and was the only fatality, dying 8 days after rupture. No vasospasm was seen on follow-up cerebral angiography in six of the 14 responding patients, and mild-to-moderate arterial narrowing was seen in at least one major cerebral artery in the remaining eight patients. Severe angiographic vasospasm was not seen, although the patient who died did not undergo repeat angiography. There was one major complication early in the series which seemed clearly related to treatment, and that was a large extradural hematoma occurring within several hours of craniotomy. Intrathecal fibrinolytic treatment appears effective in clearing subarachnoid clot and reducing vasospasm, and may be associated with acceptable risks if given to patients with large-volume subarachnoid hemorrhages at high risk for severe vasospasm. 
Coronary atherosclerotic plaques with and without thrombus in ischemic heart syndromes: a morphologic, immunohistochemical, and biochemical study. We investigated incidence, severity, and distribution of coronary atherosclerosis, acute thrombosis, and plaque fissuring in ischemic heart disease (both unstable-acute syndromes and chronic ischemia) and in nonischemic controls. We also studied the structural, immunohistochemical, and biochemical profile of plaques, with and without thrombus, including morphometry, immunophenotyping of inflammatory infiltrates, cytokine presence, and ultrastructural features. Critical coronary stenosis was almost the rule in both acute and chronic ischemic series (greater than 90%) whereas it reached 50% in control subjects. Thrombosis was principally characteristic of unstable-acute ischemic syndromes (unstable angina, 32%; acute myocardial infarction, 52%; cardiac sudden death, 26%) but was also found in chronic ischemia (stable angina, 12%; ischemic cardiomyopathy, 14%) and in control subjects (4%). Plaque fissuring without thrombus occurred in low percentages in lipid-rich, severe eccentric plaques in most series. Major differences were found between pultaceous-rich versus fibrous plaques rather than between plaques with or without thrombus. Pultaceous-rich plaques were frequent in sites of critical stenosis, thrombosis, and ulceration. Inflammatory infiltrates, i.e., T cells, macrophages, and a few beta cells, mostly occurred in lipid-rich, plaques unrelated to thrombus. In adventitia, infiltrates were a common finding unrelated to any syndrome. Necrotizing cytokines such as alpha-TNF were immunohistochemically detected in macrophages, smooth muscle, and intimal cells and detected by immunoblotting in 67% of pultaceous-rich plaques, either with or without thrombus. Immune response mediators such as IL-2 were also expressed in analogous plaques but in a minor percentage (50%-40%). Media were extensively damaged in severely diseased vessels with and without thrombus. Ultrastructural study showed that the fibrous cap was either highly cellular or densely fibrillar. Intimal injury with collagen exposure was often associated with platelet adhesion, whereas foamy cell exposure was not. In conclusion, investigated parameters were essentially similar in plaques, both with and without thrombus, whereas major differences were found between pultaceous-rich and fibrous plaques. Since platelets adhere to exposed collagen and not to foam cells, the type of exposed substrates could play a major role in thrombosis. 
Gastroesophageal reflux, as measured by 24-hour pH monitoring, in 509 healthy infants screened for risk of sudden infant death syndrome. Continuous long-term esophageal pH monitoring has become the preferred test to quantify acid gastroesophageal reflux. Because reflux to a limited extent is physiologic, the determination of optimal thresholds to separate normal from abnormal reflux is mandatory. Esophageal pH was measured during 24 hours in 509 healthy thriving infants, aged 3 days to 1 year, using a glass microelectrode with an external reference electrode connected to a portable recorder. Percentiles of the four parameters studied (reflux index or percent of the investigation time with a pH less than 4, number of episodes with a pH less than 4 during 24 hours, number of episodes lasting greater than 5 minutes, the duration of the longest episode (in minutes) are presented. A percentile curve of the reflux index regarding the age distribution shows that the normal range for the reflux index during the first 12 months of life is about 10% (95 percentile), decreasing from 13% at birth to 8% at 12 months. Application of an age-related percentile curve offers a close-to-reality possibility of data interpretation and illustrates that there is inevitably an overlap of data between normal and abnormal populations, because reflux is a phenomenon occurring to some extent in every human being. 
Role of nitric oxide in renal medullary oxygenation. Studies in isolated and intact rat kidneys. We investigated the role of the endothelial-derived relaxing factor nitric oxide (NO) in the homeostasis of O2 supply to the renal medulla, a region normally operating on the verge of hypoxia. Sensitive Clark-type O2 microelectrodes were inserted into renal cortex and medulla of anesthetized rats. The inhibitor of NO formation, L-NG-monomethylarginine (LNMMA), while increasing blood pressure and reducing renal blood flow, decreased medullary pO2 from 23 +/- 3 mmHg to 12 +/- 3 (P less than 0.001), with no change in the cortex. These responses were promptly reversed by L-arginine, which bypasses the LNMMA blockade. In isolated rat kidneys, LNMMA reduced perfusion flow without altering glomerular filtration rate, and augmented deep medullary hypoxic injury to thick ascending limbs from 68 to 90% of the tubules (P less than 0.02). These changes were prevented by L-arginine. Nitroprusside had a protective effect upon thick limb injury. Finally, in a previously reported model of radiocontrast nephropathy (1988. J. Clin. Invest. 82:401), LNMMA increased the severity of renal failure (final plasma creatinine from 2.3 +/- 2 mg% to 3.4 +/- 3, P less than 0.005) and the proportion of damaged thick limbs (from 24 +/- 6% to 53 +/- 9, P less than 0.01). Nitrovasodilatation may participate in the balance of renal medullary oxygenation and play an important role in the prevention of medullary hypoxic injury. 
Intrarenal hemodynamics in patients with essential hypertension. Intrarenal hemodynamics were estimated clinically in essential hypertension. Two-week studies were performed in 30 patients with essential hypertension who were given a regular sodium diet in the first week and a sodium-restricted diet in the second week. Intrarenal hemodynamic parameters such as afferent arteriolar (preglomerular) resistance, efferent arteriolar resistance, and glomerular hydrostatic pressure were calculated from renal clearances and plasma total protein concentration measured on the last day of the regular sodium diet. Calculations were based on Gomez's equations with the assumption that the gross filtration coefficient of glomerular capillaries was normal. The increase in afferent arteriolar resistance (8,100 +/- 500 dyne.sec.cm-5) was significantly correlated with an elevation in mean arterial pressure (120 +/- 2 mm Hg), whereas glomerular pressure (56 +/- 1 mm Hg) and efferent arteriolar resistance (2,500 +/- 100 dyne.sec.cm-5) remained normal. The renal function curve (pressure-natriuresis relation) was drawn by plotting urinary sodium excretion on the y axis as a function of mean arterial pressure on the x axis, both of which were measured on the last 3 days of each week. The extrapolated x intercept (107 +/- 2 mm Hg) of the renal function curve was strongly correlated in a 1:1 fashion with the sum of the arterial pressure drop from the aorta to the renal glomeruli plus the opposing pressures against glomerular filtration at glomeruli (r = 0.7, p less than 0.001) on the regular sodium diet, suggesting that the difference between mean arterial pressure on the regular sodium diet and the extrapolated x intercept represented the effective filtration pressure across the glomerular capillaries on the regular sodium diet. 
Identity of rearranged LINE/c-MYC junction sequences specific for the canine transmissible venereal tumor. The canine transmissible venereal tumor is a naturally occurring neoplastic disease that affects the external genitalia of both sexes and is transmitted during coitus. Cytogenetic and immunologic studies demonstrated that tumors from different parts of the world are very similar, suggesting that they are transferred from one animal to another by the transplantation of viable cells. We found that the c-MYC oncogene was rearranged in this tumor by the insertion of a transposable genetic element sequence (known as LINE, long interspersed element) 5' to the first exon. The amplification of a DNA segment located in the junction of the LINE genome and c-MYC upstream sequences enabled the testing of the similarity of transmissible venereal tumor samples collected independently in different parts of the world. Oligonucleotide primers flanking the LINE/c-MYC junction were used to amplify a 340-base-pair segment and nested primers amplified a 280-base-pair segment. A fifth oligonucleotide used as a probe contained the actual junction sequence. All of the tumors analyzed revealed the existence of the specific bands, which were absent in normal canine DNA samples. The amplified segments obtained from all of the tumors analyzed were identical in size and nucleotide sequence, suggesting transmission of the original rearranged cell itself, as opposed to independent events of LINE insertion in a "hot spot.". 
Short-term oral zinc supplementation does not improve chronic hepatic encephalopathy. Results of a double-blind crossover trial. The effect of short-term oral zinc supplementation (zinc sulfate 600 mg/day) on hepatic encephalopathy, was assessed in a double-blind, crossover trial. Fifteen cirrhotic patients with stable, chronic hepatic encephalopathy were randomized to receive either oral zinc or a placebo for 10 days. Following a two-week washout period, these were crossed over to the alternate treatment. Conn's index, which comprises the evaluation of the mental state, asterixis, number connection test, EEG record, and plasma ammonia, was used to score the degree of hepatic encephalopathy, both at the beginning and end of each treatment period. Serum zinc was significantly raised after oral zinc administration and reached the levels observed in cirrhotics without hepatic encephalopathy. Despite this, however, no modification in the parameters included in Conn's index were observed. In conclusion, this study failed to confirm that short-term oral zinc supplementation improves chronic hepatic encephalopathy. 
Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma of the lung. Historically lymphoepithelioma was a term used to describe an undifferentiated mucosal carcinoma with a lymphocytic component arising only from the nasopharynx, although recently, lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma has been found to occur as a primary tumor of the lung. Thus far, five patients have been documented as having this rare anatomical presentation. The patient that is being presented is the latest case of lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma of the lung and will be compared clinically and histologically with the other four cases. The case is presented in order to discuss optimal methods of diagnoses and treatment for this condition. 
Helicopter transport of the patient with acute burns. Helicopter transportation of acutely injured or ill patients has become common practice at most major medical centers. However, its specific effectiveness in the transportation of acute-condition patients with burns has never been critically assessed. This study, for the period 1984 through 1988, evaluated the use of the helicopter for transportation of acute-condition patients with burns to a regional burn center for a rural area. It is concluded that helicopter transport within a 180-mile radius in a non-hospital-based system is not appreciably faster than is ambulance transport, and does not clinically benefit most burned patients. Consideration such as safety, cost, and working space are discussed. It is recommended that at least one of three criteria be met before helicopter transfer is considered for patients with burns: the surface area involved should be enough to require a formal fluid resuscitation, an inhalation injury should be present or suspected, or there should be a possible need for an escharotomy. 
Chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin or 5-FU, cisplatin, and vinblastine for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. A randomized phase II study of the cancer and leukemia group B. Two hundred forty-seven patients with previously untreated nonresectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were entered in a prospective, randomized Phase II trial. Response assessment was possible in 232 patients, and 237 patients were evaluable for survival. Thirteen partial responses (11%) and 5 regressions (4%) of evaluable disease were obtained for the 116 patients treated with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin (C) (95% confidence interval [CI], 8.5% to 21.5%). The median time to progression was 2.2 months and the median survival time was 4.6 months for 5-FU plus C. Twenty-three partial responses (20%) and 4 regressions (3%) of evaluable disease were obtained for the 116 patients treated with 5-FU, C, and vinblastine (V) (95% CI, 15.3% to 30.7%). The median time to progression was 2.8 months and the median survival time was 5.6 months for 5-FU, C, and V. The 5-FU and C doses were equivalent in the two treatment regimens. Sixteen of 85 patients (19%) with a performance status of 0 and 18 of 103 patients (17%) with a performance status of 1 responded, whereas only 2 of 44 patients (5%) with a performance status of 2 or greater responded (P = 0.009). Patients who had received locoregional radiation therapy had a lower overall response rate then those in the no prior radiation therapy group (P = 0.028). The median survival time for patients with a performance status of 0 or 1 was 6.3 months compared with 1.9 months for patients with a performance status of 2 or greater (P less than 0.001). Performance status also appeared to be a significant factor for time to progression. More frequent and severe leukopenia, fever, genitourinary (GU) toxicity, and pulmonary toxicity was reported with 5-FU, C, and V. There were three treatment-related deaths with 5-FU, C, and V and one treatment-related death with 5-FU plus C. Grade III/VI myelotoxicity was not influenced by prior radiation therapy or performance status. Neither regimen is active enough to be considered as standard therapy for advanced NSCLC. 
Type I human T cell leukemia virus tax protein transforms rat fibroblasts through the cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element binding protein/activating transcription factor pathway. The Tax oncoprotein of the type I human T cell leukemia virus (HTLV-I) activates transcription of cellular and viral genes through at least two different transcription factor pathways. Tax activates transcription of the c-fos proto-oncogene by a mechanism that appears to involve members of the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and activating transcription factor (ATF) family of DNA-binding proteins. Tax also induces the nuclear expression of the NF-kappa B family of rel oncogene-related enhancer-binding proteins. We have investigated the potential role of these CREB/ATF and NF-kappa B/Rel transcription factors in Tax-mediated transformation by analyzing the oncogenic potential of Tax mutants that functionally segregate these two pathways of transactivation. Rat fibroblasts (Rat2) stably expressing either the wild-type Tax protein or a Tax mutant selectively deficient in the ability to induce NF-kappa B/Rel demonstrated marked changes in morphology and growth characteristics including the ability to form tumors in athymic mice. In contrast, Rat2 cells stably expressing a Tax mutant selectively deficient in the ability to activate transcription through CREB/ATF demonstrated no detectable changes in morphology or growth characteristics. These results suggest that transcriptional activation through the CREB/ATF pathway may play an important role in Tax-mediated cellular transformation. 
Management of persistent or recurrent urinary incontinence after placement of artificial urinary sphincter. A rational systematic approach is presented in the evaluation of 14 men with persistent or recurrent urinary incontinence after placement of the AMS800 artificial urinary sphincter. Mechanical malfunctions, including device leaks and control assembly malfunctions, may often be discovered with physical examination and radiographic evaluations. Nonmechanical malfunctions, such as cuff erosion, inadequate cuff compression and functional urethral atrophy, can be diagnosed with perfusion sphincterometry, urethroscopy and a filling cystometrogram, all combined in 1 simplified technique. With the presented algorithm the over-all success rate after 1 revision was 82%. Mechanical malfunctions appear to have a better revision rate of success than nonmechanical malfunctions (100% versus 71.5%, respectively). 
A phase II study of mitoxantrone, etoposide, and thiotepa with autologous marrow support for patients with relapsed breast cancer. To further improve the effect of high-dose chemotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced and metastatic breast cancer, we sought to develop a second active high-dose noncross-resistant regimen to use in tandem with our customary high-dose regimen of cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin (CVP). We performed a phase II trial of high-dose mitoxantrone 30 mg/m2, etoposide 200 mg/m2 every 12 hours x 6, and thiotepa 250 mg/m2 x 3 days (MVT) in 31 patients with heavily pretreated metastatic breast cancer and one with locally advanced chemotherapy-refractory breast cancer. These patients were ineligible for high-dose CVP chemotherapy because of the amount of prior treatment and poor-response status. Of the 32 patients, 14 responded to cycle 1, did not experience any grade 4 toxicity, and received a second cycle of MVT. Overall, seven of 31 patients achieved a complete response (CR; 23%). Four of the 14, who were partial responders to the first cycle, achieved a CR after the second cycle. The overall response rate was 19 of 31 (61%) with an overall median freedom from progression of 4 to 5 months and an overall median survival of 9 months. Toxicity consisted primarily of mucositis (grade 3 or 4 in 69%). The results indicate that high-dose MVT produces significant activity, even in heavily pretreated patients. Administration of a second cycle of high-dose therapy with MVT increased the CR rate, and the morbidity and mortality from the second cycle were not greater than that for the first cycle. Because of the high incidence of grade 3 or 4 mucositis with this regimen, we are currently completing a follow-up study of high-dose mitoxantrone and thiotepa alone. 
Ibopamine in chronic congestive heart failure: hemodynamic and neurohumoral effects. Ibopamine is a dopamine-like drug that shows mainly vasoactive properties, predominantly acting on dopamine1-(DA1-) and DA2-adrenoceptors. Ibopamine increases cardiac output, reduces peripheral vascular resistance, and increases renal blood flow, exerting a lesser effect on preload parameters. This hemodynamic improvement is also present even after relatively long-term treatment. There is no evidence of pharmacologic tolerance. In relation to DA2-activation, ibopamine modulates the neurohumoral consequences of heart failure with decreases in plasma renin activity and aldosterone and norepinephrine plasma levels, an effect that can be beneficial in the long-term treatment of heart failure patients. 
Paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis with abnormal electroencephalogram during attacks. An 18-year-old man with paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis (PKC) showed rhythmic electroencephalographic (EEG) discharges of 5-Hz spikes over the entire scalp during episodes. The EEG findings in this case suggest that PKC may have an epileptogenic basis. 
Quantitation of vascular outflow by measurement of impedance. One of the most important determinants of graft patency is the degree and character of vascular outflow. This study was designed to evaluate input impedance as a functional assessment of the outflow bed of vascular grafts. Four distinct outflow environments were created for external jugular vein conduits in 42 New Zealand white rabbits. Vein grafts (n = 14) were fashioned as end-to-side common carotid interposition bypass grafts. Arteriovenous fistulas (n = 15) were created by side-to-side anastomosis of the distal common carotid artery and linguofacial vein. Arteriovenous fistulas with outflow obstruction (n = 7) were fistulas with a metal clip partially obstructing the distal outflow channel (1 mm lumen). Vein graft/arteriovenous fistula combinations (n = 6) consisted of a vein graft and arteriovenous fistula in series. Pressure and flow in the external jugular vein were measured, and input impedance spectra were calculated by Fourier methods. By use of a PC-based acquisition and processing system, impedance results for 20 cardiac cycles could be obtained in approximately 10 minutes. The results revealed that vein grafts typically demonstrated high resistance to steady state flow (Rin = 235 +/- 50 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5) and steadily decreasing impedance to pulsatile flow resulting in a characteristic impedance (Z0; average of fourth to tenth harmonics) of 35.5 +/- 8.0 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5. Phase angle values were usually negative, especially at low harmonics (first harmonic phase angle = -1.11 +/- 0.10 radians) indicating that flow led pressure. In contrast, arteriovenous fistula Rin was minimal (6.3 +/- 1.4 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5; p less than 0.05 compared to vein graft, and the impedance was flat across the frequency spectrum (Z0 = 8.5 +/- 1.5 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5; p less than 0.05) with pressure and flow nearly in phase (first harmonic phase angle = -0.05 +/- 0.10 radians). Creation of outflow obstruction in arteriovenous fistulas resulted in significantly elevated Rin (136 +/- 41 x 10(3) dyne/sec . cm-5; p less than 0.05 compared to arteriovenous fistula and Z0 (23 +/- 9 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5, p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Serum concentrations of tumour necrosis factor alpha in childhood chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Serum tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) concentrations were measured by enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assay in 31 normal children and during 65 episodes of clinical remission and 54 episodes of relapse in 92 children with chronic inflammatory bowel disease. An appreciable rise in TNF alpha was found only in children in relapse of ulcerative colitis and colonic Crohn's disease. The group of children with small bowel Crohn's disease in relapse did not show increases of TNF alpha above control concentrations, despite an equivalent rise in disease indices. Height velocity was depressed in children with relapse of large bowel Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis compared with the equivalent condition in remission. The impairment of growth velocity was significantly greater in relapse of large bowel Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis than in small bowel Crohn's disease alone, although for the subgroups in stage 1 puberty (prepubertal) the differences were not significant. Inadequate growth in chronic inflammatory bowel disease is currently ascribed to inadequate nutrition and TNF alpha may contribute to this through its cachexia inducing effects. It may, in addition, diminish pituitary growth hormone release. These results suggest that production of TNF alpha may be associated with growth failure in relapse of colonic inflammatory bowel disease. 
Three-dimensional characterization of human ventricular myofiber architecture by ultrasonic backscatter. Normal human left ventricular architecture comprises a highly aligned array of cardiac myofibers whose orientation depends on transmural location. This study was designed to determine whether measurement of integrated backscatter could be used detect the progressive transmural shift of myofiber alignment that occurs from epicardium to endocardium in human ventricular wall segments. Integrated backscatter was measured at 32 transmural levels in seven cylindrical biopsy specimens (1.4 cm diam) sampled from normal regions of six explanted fixed human hearts by insonification of samples at 180 independent angles in 2 degrees steps around their entire circumference with a 5-MHz broadband piezoelectric transducer. Histologic analysis was performed to determine fiber orientation. Integrated backscatter varied approximately as a sinusoidal function of the angle of insonification at each transmural level. Greater integrated backscatter was observed for insonification perpendicular as compared with parallel to fibers (difference = 14.5 +/- 0.6 dB). Ultrasonic analysis revealed a progressive transmural shift in fiber orientation of approximately 9.2 +/- 0.7 degrees/mm of tissue. Histologic analysis revealed a concordant shift in fiber orientation of 7.9 +/- 0.8 degrees/mm of tissue. Thus, human myocardium manifests anisotropy of ultrasonic scattering that may be useful for characterization of the intramural fiber alignment and overall three-dimensional organization of cardiac myofibers. 
Plasma catecholamines in patients with presinusoidal portal hypertension: comparison with cirrhotic patients and nonportal hypertensive subjects. During a hemodynamic study, plasma catecholamine concentrations were measured in the pulmonary artery and in the hepatic vein in 18 presinusoidal portal hypertensive patients. Results were compared with those in 15 nonportal hypertensive subjects and in 24 cirrhotic patients in good condition (grade A, according to Pugh's classification). Plasma norepinephrine concentrations in the pulmonary artery or in the hepatic vein were not significantly different between nonportal hypertensive subjects (mean +/- S.E.M.: 271 +/- 36 and 83 +/- 11 pg/ml, respectively) and presinusoidal portal hypertensive patients (273 +/- 33 and 84 +/- 11 pg/ml, respectively). These concentrations were, however, elevated in cirrhotic patients (408 +/- 47 and 256 +/- 45 pg/ml, p less than 0.05 in comparison with the two other groups). These differences suggest that increased sympathetic nervous activity in cirrhosis is associated with the presence of liver disease or increase in sinusoidal pressure. Differences in plasma epinephrine concentrations were not significant among the three groups of patients. However, the existence of a significant correlation between pulmonary artery plasma epinephrine concentration and cardiac index (r2 = 0.46, p less than 0.01) in patients with presinusoidal portal hypertension suggests that the adrenal medulla could play a role in the pathophysiology of the hyperkinetic syndrome of these patients. 
MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial: interim results for symptomatic patients with severe (70-99%) or with mild (0-29%) carotid stenosis. European Carotid Surgery Trialists' Collaborative Group The European Carotid Surgery Trial is a multicentre trial of carotid endarterectomy for patients who, after a carotid territory non-disabling ischaemic stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or retinal infarct, are found to have a stenotic lesion in the relevant (ipsilateral) carotid artery. Over the past 10 years 2518 patients have been randomised, and the mean follow-up is now almost 3 years among the 2200 thus far available for analysis of the incidence of strokes that lasted more than 7 days. For the patients with "moderate" (30-69%) stenosis on their prerandomisation angiogram the balance of surgical risk and eventual benefit remains uncertain, and full recruitment continues. For 374 patients with only "mild" (0-29%) stenosis there was little 3-year risk of ipsilateral ischaemic stroke, even in the absence of surgery, so any 3-year benefits of surgery were small, and were outweighed by its early risks. For 778 patients with "severe" (70-99%) stenosis, however, the risks of surgery were significantly outweighed by the later benefits: although 7.5% had a stroke (or died) within 30 days of surgery, during the next 3 years the risks of ipsilateral ischaemic stroke were (by life-table analysis) an extra 2.8% for surgery-allocated and 16.8% for control patients (a sixfold reduction, p less than 0.0001). There was also a small reduction in other strokes, and at 3 years the total risk of surgical death, surgical stroke, ipsilateral ischaemic stroke, or any other stroke was 12.3% for surgery and 21.9% for control (difference 9.6% SD 3.3, 2p less than 0.01). The main concern was to avoid disabling or fatal events, and, among severe stenosis patients, 3.7% had a disabling stroke (or died) within 30 days of surgery, an extra 1.1% surgery versus 8.4% control (p less than 0.0001) had a disabling or fatal ipsilateral ischaemic stroke by 3 years, and the total 3-year risk of any disabling or fatal stroke (or surgical death) was 6.0% surgery versus 11.0% control (overall difference 5.0% SD 2.3, 2p less than 0.05); but, for disabling or fatal stroke the control risks seemed to diminish after the first year, so delay of surgery by just a few months after clinical presentation might make this overall difference non-significant. 
Management of advanced retinopathy of prematurity in the older patient. The authors studied 11 eyes of 10 patients who complained of a recent decrease in vision and whose eyes had the clinical appearance of stage 5 retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) as diagnosed by the presence of a dense, opaque retrolenticular membrane. Patients ranged in age from 4 to 33 years, and birth weights ranged from 680 to 1077 g. All eyes underwent vitrectomy, lensectomy, and membrane peeling and were found intraoperatively to have areas of retina that were attached (stage 4B). Preoperatively, a reproducible visual-evoked potential waveform appeared to better predict this retinal configuration and potential retinal function than did the contact B scan ultrasound of the globe. Postoperatively, seven (63.6%) eyes demonstrated an improvement in vision. Vitreous surgery may be beneficial in selected eyes of older patients with advanced ROP to clear media opacities and to uncover areas of functional, attached retina, which may allow these patients to more effectively use the vision they possess. 
Pharmacologic elevation of blood inorganic phosphate in hypoxemic patients with COPD. We have shown that in patients with COPD, myocardial efficiency during exercise is enhanced following acute elevations of plasma phosphate (Pi). A decrease in Hb-O2 affinity (increase in P50) was not responsible for the improvement. We postulated that the physiologic benefit was due to the acute reversal of a subclinical myocardial Pi depletion. To further test this hypothesis in a chronic state, we studied nine stable hypoxemic (PaO2 = 64 +/- 2 mm Hg [+/- SEM]) patients with COPD over five weeks: two weeks at normal plasma Pi; and three weeks at elevated plasma Pi, induced by etidronate disodium (Didronel; 750 mg orally daily). Administration of etidronate disodium increased (p less than 0.05) plasma level of Pi (4.4 +/- 0.2 to 5.8 +/- 0.1 mg/dl), RBC level of Pi (3.1 +/- 0.2 to 4.1 +/- 0.2 mg/dl), RBC level of 2,3-DPG (16.2 +/- 1.1 to 21.3 g+/- 1.3 mumol/g of Hb) and P50 (23.7 +/- 0.5 to 26.0 +/- 0.8 mm Hg). At the end of the treatment, the widening of the C(a-v)O2 with exercise (7.1 +/- 0.8 to 8.9 +/- 0.6 ml/dl) was less pronounced than under control conditions (6.9 +/- 0.4 to 10.1 +/- 0.6 ml/dl; p less than 0.02); concomitantly, the crossover point (COP; the PaO2 below which a rightward-shifted Hb-O2 curve causes the C(a-v)O2 to become narrower rather than wider) increased (37 +/- 2 to 49 +/- 1 mm Hg). Indicators of myocardial work efficiency were not affected by etidronate disodium at rest or during exercise. We postulate that during exercise the potential beneficial effect of the rightward shift of the Hb-O2 curve upon cardiac function was negated by the fall of PaO2 to or below the COP level, a situation which would limit increases in tissue O2 extraction. 
Methods to diminish intraoperative blood loss. With the subcutaneous injection of a saline-vasopressor solution under donor sites and debrided areas, a significant reduction in intraoperative blood transfusions was accomplished. No problems in healing of donor sites or skin grafts were encountered. Vasodilating anesthetics and ketamine can overcome the local vasopressor action. Discontinuing or reducing the concentration of these agents results in less bleeding from the wound. 
Facial dystonia, essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm. Movement disorders, or dyskinesias, in the facial region may be categorized in several ways. Dystonic movement disorders in the cranial-cervical region, including essential blepharospasm, Meige syndrome and spasmodic torticollis, are characterized by uncontrollable squeezing movements in the face and neck. These disorders typically present in the fifth and sixth decades of life. Essential blepharospasm is particularly debilitating, as the involuntary eyelid closure that accompanies this condition may result in functional blindness with an otherwise normal visual pathway. Hemifacial spasm is an intermittent, unilateral, spasmodic contraction of the muscles innervated by the facial nerve. This disorder usually presents in the third or fourth decade and has a different underlying pathophysiology than the dystonias. Botulinum A toxin therapy has largely supplanted surgical intervention in the treatment of essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm. 
Metastatic angiosarcoma of the brain. Two patients with metastatic angiosarcoma of the brain are described. In one, a 17-year-old man, the tumor was located at the pineal region and exhibited significant vascularity. It was sensitive to radiation therapy and disappeared after radiation of 50 Gy; however, it recurred after 1 year and a new lesion was found in the liver. The other patient is a 31-year-old woman who experienced sudden onset of headache. Computed tomography scan revealed three separate masses in the brain. One tumor was surgically removed. The other two were sensitive to radiation therapy and disappeared after radiation of 40 Gy. A new lesion was found in the femur 16 months after the operation. Brain metastasis from angiosarcoma is exceedingly rare. Both patients developed symptoms with intracranial hemorrhage. The diagnosis of the metastatic lesions preceded diagnosis of the primary lesion by 12 and 16 months, respectively. Ulex europaeus 1 lectin and factor VIII were very useful in establishing the diagnosis of angiosarcoma. 
Production of transforming growth factor alpha by hamster eosinophils. Previously it was demonstrated that malignant transformation of the Syrian hamster cheek pouch mucosa is associated with the expression of TGF-alpha. Therefore in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry was used to investigate the cellular sources of TGF-alpha production in this model system. Surprisingly one cell type in the inflammatory infiltrate present in the connective tissue adjacent to the transformed epithelium represented a major source of TGF-alpha mRNA. Detailed analysis of these cells revealed that they were eosinophils. In addition to TGF-alpha mRNA, about 40% of the eosinophils associated with the oral tumors exhibited TGF-alpha product reactive with a monoclonal antibody against the C terminus of the mature TGF-alpha peptide. Normal hamster bone marrow eosinophils also exhibited TGF-alpha mRNA and product by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. These results suggest that the eosinophil represents a biologically significant source of TGF-alpha. 
General moderate hypothermia in the surgical treatment of descending thoracic aortic aneurysms. The diagnosis and surgical treatment of aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta is difficult and some aspects of management remain controversial. We report 53 patients treated in the period 1983-1988; 25.9% of them had previously been erroneously diagnosed as having mediastinal cysts or tumours. Duplex scanning and computerised tomography were valuable adjuncts in establishing the correct diagnosis, which was confirmed by aortography in 52 patients. Of 49 patients operated upon electively three died with a mortality rate of 6.1%; of the 4 patients operated upon as emergencies 2 died. Fifty patients survived the operative procedure and of the 3 operated upon under normothermia 1 developed paraplegia, whereas of the 47 patients operated upon under moderate hypothermia (30 degrees-31 degrees C) only 1 developed paraplegia. 
HBx gene of hepatitis B virus induces liver cancer in transgenic mice. The exact role of hepatitis B virus in the development of liver cancer is not known. The recent identification of a viral regulatory gene HBx suggests a possible direct involvement of the virus whereby the HBx protein, acting as a transcriptional transactivator of viral genes, may alter host gene expression and lead to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. We have tested this possibility of placing the entire HBx gene under its own regulatory elements directly into the germline of mice. Transgenic animals harbouring this viral gene succumbed to progressive histopathological changes specifically in the liver, beginning with multifocal areas of altered hepatocytes, followed by the appearance of benign adenomas, and proceeding to the development of malignant carcinomas. Male mice developed disease and died much earlier than females. This transgenic animal model appears ideal for defining the molecular events that follow the expression of the viral HBx gene and are responsible for the development of liver cancer. 
Long-latency neurodegenerative disease in the western Pacific. The western Pacific parkinsonism-dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis complex is a prototypical neurodegenerative disorder found among inhabitants of Guam, New Guinea (Irian Jaya, Indonesia) and Japan (Kii Peninsula, Honshu). Nonviral environmental factors peculiar to the affected populations seem to play a prominent etiologic role. Although cause-effect relationships cannot be established by epidemiologic studies alone, we have shown in all three affected population groups that individuals develop the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis variant of this disorder after heavy exposure to the raw or incompletely detoxified seed of neurotoxic cycad plants. Since long periods may elapse between cycad exposure and the appearance of neurological disease in humans, cycads may harbor a "slow toxin" that causes the postmitotic neuron to undergo slow irreversible degeneration. Two cycad neurotoxins are recognized, one of which (cycasin) is known to have long-latency effects (tumorigenesis) on mitotic neurons and replicating cells in other tissues. This paper explores the possible relationship between tumorigenesis and long-latency neurotoxicity, and discusses possible biologic markers of cycad exposure and subclinical neurodegenerative disease. 
Chronic posttraumatic aortic pseudoaneurysm. Recognition before rupture. Few patients survive transection of the aorta caused by blunt trauma. However, among those who do are a small number who go on to live with an unrecognized pseudoaneurysm that may rupture at any time. Because these aneurysms may be mistaken for more common disease processes, such as hilar adenopathy, atherosclerotic aneurysm, or neoplasia, the authors describe radiographic findings that suggest the correct diagnosis. 
Experimental therapy of human glioma by means of a genetically engineered virus mutant. Malignant gliomas are the most common malignant brain tumors and are almost always fatal. A thymidine kinase-negative mutant of herpes simplex virus-1 (dlsptk) that is attenuated for neurovirulence was tested as a possible treatment for gliomas. In cell culture, dlsptk killed two long-term human glioma lines and three short-term human glioma cell populations. In nude mice with implanted subcutaneous and subrenal U87 human gliomas, intraneoplastic inoculation of dlsptk caused growth inhibition. In nude mice with intracranial U87 gliomas, intraneoplastic inoculation of dlsptk prolonged survival. Genetically engineered viruses such as dlsptk merit further evaluation as novel antineoplastic agents. 
Oral cancer screening in the elderly. Oral cancers represent approximately 3% of all cancers diagnosed in the United States. Oral cancer is one-fifth as common as cancer of the breast, colon, and lung but more than twice as common as cervical cancer. Incidence rates for oral cancer are highest among older men. Epidemiologic data identify alcohol and tobacco as major risk factors associated with the disease. Screening for oral cancer is a simple, non-invasive procedure which can be easily incorporated into the comprehensive assessment of older patients. Oral cancer screening can detect early, localized lesions which are associated with an improved prognosis. Five-year survival rates are more than four times greater in individuals with localized lesions than those with distant metastases. Since older Americans visit their physician more often than their dentist, the physician's medical examination provides an excellent opportunity to screen for oral cancers. 
A prion protein missense variant is integrated in kuru plaque cores in patients with Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome. Kuru plaques are the pathologic hallmark in Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome (GSS). To demonstrate that prion protein (PrP) is a component of kuru plaque cores, we fractionated and sequenced kuru plaque core derived peptides, following digestion with Achromobacter lyticus protease I. We identified 3 PrP-derived peptides by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and found a fragment of digests derived from a missense variant of PrP. The variant PrP was also present in the prion rod fraction in patients with GSS. This substitution may play a major role in cerebral amyloidogenesis. 
Maternal reporting of behaviour following very severe blunt head injury. Mothers of 40 very severely head injured male subjects rated their son's behaviour on the Current Behaviour Scale and their ratings were compared with mothers' ratings of 40 control male subjects. The scale was able to discriminate the two groups, by utilising two factors--loss of emotional control and loss of motivation. The mothers' level of emotional distress was closely related to their reporting of loss of emotional control in their sons, but reporting of loss of motivation, or lowered arousal, was strongly predicted by the functional disability of the son. The utility of refining the measurement of post-trauma behaviour is discussed. 
Sonographic visualization of the ureter in pregnancy. We describe a method of differentiating physiological from pathological dilatation of the renal collecting system in pregnant patients. In physiological hydronephrosis the dilated ureter extends down only to the level of the common iliac artery. In 2 patients with distal ureteral stones a dilated ureter was visualized past the vessels. To determine the frequency and reliability of visualizing the ureters in pregnant patients 105 consecutive asymptomatic pregnant patients were examined. Hydronephrosis was found in 83 kidneys in 59 of the patients. The dilated ureter was visualized in 64 of the renal units. The anatomy was well demonstrated by color flow Doppler scanning and in all of these cases the dilated ureter was seen to taper where it crossed the common iliac artery. These results suggest that the presence of a dilated ureter past the iliac artery is strong evidence for pathological distal ureteral obstruction in pregnancy. 
Lymphangiosarcoma associated with lymphedema in a man with Maffucci's syndrome. A man with Maffucci's syndrome and lifelong lymphedema in the right lower extremity had a lymphangiosarcoma in the same extremity. Despite amputation of the limb and radiotherapy, he died several months later of pulmonary metastases. Malignancies of vascular origin rarely have been reported in this syndrome. Our patient's features suggest that lymphedema may predispose patients with Maffucci's syndrome to the development of lymphangiosarcoma. 
Transient retrocochlear low-frequency sensorineural hearing loss: a new clinical entity. Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) of varying types and extent developed in a number of the 963 patients who underwent microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm. Fourteen of the patients with hearing loss had transient low-frequency SNHL. Low-frequency SNHL is seldom noted in patients with retrocochlear hearing loss, but five of these patients had Horner's syndrome or bulbar palsy. The results of Bekesy audiometry, auditory brainstem response, and electrocochleography in the patients were also suggestive of brainstem pathology. Surgical records revealed that all of them had excessively short perforating arteries surrounding the entry zone of nerves VII and VIII, so that they had to be stretched during surgery. Occlusion of perforating arteries is suspected to have caused lateral brainstem infarction around the entry zone of nerves VII and VIII, and resulted in low-frequency SNHL. 
A novel vitamin D3 analog, 22-oxa-1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, inhibits the growth of human breast cancer in vitro and in vivo without causing hypercalcemia. Although 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3] has been shown to inhibit the growth of certain malignant cells, its hypercalcemic effect has prevented clinical application. We have recently developed a novel vitamin D3 analog, 22-oxa-1,25-(OH)2D3 (OCT), that is capable of promoting differentiation and inhibiting proliferation without inducing hypercalcemia. The present study was undertaken to determine whether OCT could be applied for the treatment of breast cancer with or without estrogen receptor (ER). OCT inhibited the proliferation of both ER-positive (MCF-7, T-47D, and ZR-75-1) and ER-negative breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231 and BT-20) in vitro in a time- and dose-dependent manner, as determined by cell number and [3H]thymidine uptake. The antiproliferative effect was observed with a concentration as low as 10(-11) M OCT, and treatment of MCF-7 cells with 10(-8) M OCT for 8 days caused more than a 50% reduction in cell number compared with that of vehicle-treated cells. OCT was approximately 1 order of magnitude more potent than 1,25-(OH)2D3 in inhibiting the proliferation of MCF-7 cells. The in vivo effect of OCT was examined in athymic mice implanted with ER-negative MX-1 tumor, which was established as the xenograft derived from human breast carcinoma. Intratumor administration of OCT three times a week remarkably delayed the growth of MX-1 tumor in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The antitumor effect of 1 microgram/kg BW OCT was greater than that of 500 microgram/kg BW adriamycin, and the relative tumor weights in each group on day 26 were 29.7% and 50.5% of that in the vehicle-treated group, respectively. The effects of OCT and adriamycin were additive, and the relative tumor weight after 26 days of combined treatment was 21.7% of that in the vehicle-treated group. Oral administration of OCT was also effective, and the relative tumor weight in the OCT-treated group (1 microgram/kg BW) was 54.6 +/- 0.1% (mean +/- SEM) of that in the vehicle-treated group. Neither intratumor nor oral administration of OCT raised the serum calcium level in these animals. These results demonstrate that OCT is a potent inhibitor of the proliferation of breast cancer cells with or without ER and that OCT inhibits the growth of breast cancer in vivo without inducing hypercalcemia. We suggest that OCT may provide a new strategy for the treatment of breast carcinoma regardless of ER status. 
PEG ileus. A new cause of small bowel obstruction. A case of small bowel obstruction due to a lodged percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube inner bumper is described. Most probably inner bumper lodgement in the terminal ileum is related to its size. Laparotomy was required to remove the bumper and relieve the obstruction. We suggest that all percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy bumpers be retrieved endoscopically when the PEG tube is removed or replaced unless a collapsible inner bumper is used. 
A phase II study of the combination of carboplatin and ifosfamide in previously untreated metastatic small cell lung carcinoma. This Phase II study evaluated the combination of two active agents in small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC): carboplatin and ifosfamide. Thirty previously untreated patients (27 men and 3 women) with a median age of 59 years were included in this study. Twelve patients had one metastatic site and 18 had two or more metastatic sites. The median performance status was 80%. The chemotherapy (CT) regimen administered during the course of this study consisted of carboplatin (300 mg/m2) and ifosfamide (4 g/m2) plus mesna every 4 weeks. All 30 patients were evaluable: 1 achieved a complete remission (CR) and 18 achieved a partial remission (PR) (objective response rate, 63%). The median response time was 3 months and the median survival time was 8 months (range, 1 to 25+ months). Bone marrow toxicity was Grade III in three patients and Grade IV in four patients. The carboplatin and ifosfamide combination was well tolerated. No cross-resistance with the doxorubicin and etoposide regimen was established because 4 of 11 patients responded to this combination (+/- cisplatin) after failing to respond to the ifosfamide and carboplatin regimen. The ifosfamide and carboplatin combination may be considered for inclusion in non-cross-resistant alternating CT schedules. 
A simple method for biliary-enteric anastomosis and chronic bile diversion in the rat. A simple method of biliary-enteric anastomosis, without the use of surgical microscopy, is described. There were no signs of cholestasis after 3 mo of follow-up. A modified procedure using a silicone elastomer catheter as a stent for the biliary-enteric anastomosis resulted in biliary obstruction within 3 wk after surgery. Our experimental bile duct implantation technique is a simple and useful experimental method for the investigation of chronic biliary diversion and biliary physiology. Additionally, it can be performed safely and easily in a rodent model without sophisticated microscopic techniques. 
Unwashed filtered shed blood collected after knee and hip arthroplasties. A source of autologous red blood cells. We evaluated the results of twelve hematological and plasma protein determinations in 450 to 500-milliliter volumes of shed blood that had been collected with or without acid-citrate-dextrose anticoagulant (National Institutes of Health Formula A) from knees and hips during the first twelve hours after arthroplasty. We also evaluated the effects on the recipients when the blood was used for reinfusion. The findings in the units that had been obtained in less than four hours, in between four and six hours, and in more than six hours after the arthroplasty were similar whether or not the acid-citrate-dextrose anticoagulant had been used. The mean values for the collected units were: in the blood, a concentration of hemoglobin of 115 grams per liter, a hematocrit of 0.34, a white blood-cell count of 4.8 x 10(9) per liter, and a red blood-cell count of 3.7 x 10(12) per liter, and, in the plasma, a level of hemoglobin of 160 grams per liter, a level of fibrinogen of less than 0.2 gram per liter, a level of factor-V clotting protein of less than 10 per cent of normal, a level of factor-VIII clotting protein that was 45 per cent of normal, a level of antithrombin III that was 45 per cent of normal, a level of plasminogen that was 55 per cent of normal, a level of protein C that was 100 per cent of normal, and a level of fibrin-degradation products of 1000 micrograms per milliliter of plasma. The clinical response of the patient was assessed after the reinfusion of a total of 205 units of unwashed shed blood into 153 patients. In addition, in 126 of the 153 patients, hematological and plasma-protein measurements were analyzed before the autotransfusion and one and twenty-four hours afterward. Each of these patients had received one to four units of shed blood that had been filtered but not washed. Only two (2 per cent) of the ninety-nine patients who received shed blood that had been collected six hours or less after the operation had a febrile reaction, whereas twelve (22 per cent) of the fifty-four patients who received blood that had been collected six to twelve hours after the operation had such a reaction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump: emphasis on complications. In a review of our 5-year experience with intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) insertion I examined the complications of percutaneous IABP placement in 93 patients, and compared them with those reported in other studies in the literature. I analyzed several variables that may affect the complication rate. Of 78 patients in our series who had percutaneous IABP cardiac assist, 15 (19%) had complications, which falls into the acceptable range reported by others. Among 15 patients who had surgical placement of an IABP, the complication rate was similar at 20%. The complication rate after IABP insertions done by surgeons primarily in the operating room was compared with that from insertions done by cardiologists in the catheterization laboratory. The overall complication rate was found to be higher in the second group, 28.0% compared with 12.8%. The application of the IABP in cardiogenic shock was associated with a high complication rate (46%). On the other hand, its insertion before cardiac surgery was associated with a relatively low complication rate (9.5%). 
Motor inhibition from the brainstem is normal in torsion dystonia during REM sleep. The maintenance of axial atonia during REM sleep was monitored in 14 patients with primary torsion dystonia, 10 patients with secondary torsion dystonia, and 10 normal subjects using submental EMG and video EEG telemetry. The excitability of the corticospinal tract during REM sleep was also assessed using scalp magnetic stimulation in seven patients and three controls. During REM sleep dystonic patients had well maintained atonia evidenced by infrequent bursts of submental activity, no episodes of complex semi-purposeful behaviour and reduced motor responses to magnetic stimulation. These findings suggest that the inhibitory centres in the region of the locus coeruleus and their descending pathways to the spinal alpha motor neurons are intact in torsion dystonia. 
Lateral parascapular extrapleural approach to the upper thoracic spine. The upper thoracic vertebrae are difficult to approach surgically because of the narrowing of the thoracic inlet, the proximity of the brachial plexus, and the parascapular shoulder musculature. A novel lateral parascapular extrapleural approach to the upper thoracic vertebrae is described. The parascapular shoulder musculature (trapezius, levator scapulae, and rhomboid muscles) is reflected off the spinous processes to the scapula as a musculocutaneous flap, preserving the neurovascular supply. The paraspinal musculature is mobilized and retracted, and the upper dorsal ribs are removed with caution to avoid injury to the C-8 and T-1 nerve roots. The rami communicantes are transected, and the sympathetic chain is displaced anterolaterally. The T2-4 vertebrae can be approached unobstructed. The T-1 nerve root obstructs posterolateral access to the T-1 vertebra, necessitating an inferolateral approach underneath the T-1 nerve root axilla. Four patients with compressive myelopathy from upper thoracic vertebral metastases underwent neural decompression, vertebral reconstruction, and posterior spinal fixation with this approach. Their postoperative neurological status was either unchanged or improved. Complications included radiographic pleural effusion and superficial wound dehiscence; one patient required posterior spinal reinstrumentation for progressive kyphosis. One patient developed pneumonia 7 days postoperatively which was unresponsive to appropriate treatment. It is believed that the anatomical limitations to this region have been overcome, and that excellent exposure of the T1-4 vertebrae for neural decompression and vertebral reconstruction can be performed safely. A major advantage is that posterior spinal fixation can be carried out simultaneously. 
Disulfiram implant: a double-blind placebo controlled follow-up on treatment outcome. Seventy-six alcohol-dependent patients participated in a study of the clinical effect of implanted disulfiram (DS). The patients were randomized to a DS group (n = 40), receiving a subcutaneous abdominal implantation of 10 x 100 mg DS tablets and a placebo group (PL group) receiving an implantation of 9 x 100 mg calcium phosphate tablets together with one calcium phosphate tablet containing 1 mg DS. Both groups believed they were receiving DS. At admission there was no significant difference between the DS and PL groups with regard to demographic characteristics, psychosocial adjustment, drinking variables, medical disorders, or laboratory results. After a study period of approximately 300 days, 63 patients (33 DS; 30 PL) were assessed using a battery of tests. There was no significant difference between the groups with regard to reduction in average alcohol consumption, number of days to the first alcohol intake after implantation, or level of psychosocial function. Nevertheless, both groups reduced their ethanol consumption significantly, probably due to the psychological deterrent effect. The DS implant did result in a significantly higher incidence of wound complications. This study does not support the idea that a 1-g DS implant has any significant clinical effect different from the implant containing only 1 mg DS (placebo). 
Effect of cardiopulmonary support on regional and global left ventricular function during transient coronary occlusion. The ability of extracorporeal cardiopulmonary support (CPS) to unload the left ventricle and reduce ischemic dysfunction during transient coronary occlusion was studied in 10 anesthetized dogs. Three serial 60-second circumflex coronary artery occlusions were performed with CPS initiated only during the second occlusion. CPS significantly reduced preocclusion systolic blood pressure, blood pressure x heart rate double-product, circumflex blood flow, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP), peak negative dP/dt, and left ventricular systolic thickening. Circumflex occlusion caused changes in LVEDP and left ventricular wall thickening that were similar regardless of the presence or absence of CPS. These data suggest that CPS unloads the left ventricle during myocardial ischemia but does not prevent regional or global myocardial dysfunction. 
Clinical features and results of therapy for children with paraspinal soft tissue sarcoma: a report of the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study. Soft tissue sarcomas of the paraspinal region comprised 3.3% (56 of 1,688) of the patients entered and eligible on Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Studies I (IRS-I) and II (IRS-II) (1972 to 1984). These lesions tended to be greater than 5 cm in diameter at diagnosis, invaded the spinal extradural space, and were of the extraosseous Ewing's sarcoma or undifferentiated sarcoma subtype in 55% (30 of 56) of the cases. Patients with tumors in clinical groups II, III, and IV were treated with radiotherapy (XRT) and vincristine-dactinomycin (VA) or VA plus cyclophosphamide (VAC) +/- doxorubicin. Clinical group I patients treated on IRS-II did not receive XRT, while those on IRS-I were randomized to receive VAC +/- XRT. Forty-four of the paraspinal patients (79%) achieved a complete response (CR) compared with 77% (1,260 of 1,632) for patients with disease in other sites. Twenty-seven patients (55%) subsequently relapsed (five local, three regional, four local and distant, and 14 distant). The proportion of patients surviving 5 years by clinical group (stage) from I to IV were 50%, 50%, 62%, and 27%, respectively. Paraspinal patients had somewhat poorer survival than patients with disease in other sites, both in IRS-I and IRS-II; the percentage of paraspinal patients surviving 5 years was 50% and 52% for IRS-I and IRS-II, respectively, whereas these percentages were 55% and 63% for patients with disease in other sites. Histology did not influence the CR rate, but unexpectedly, patients who had embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) had the poorest overall survival rate. We concluded that patients with paraspinal lesions may require extended-field radiation therapy to reduce the high local failure rate and more intensive chemotherapy to achieve better local and systemic tumor control. 
Pacemaker failure on induction of anaesthesia. A patient with a permanent pacemaker presented for repair of a strangulated hernia. During induction of anaesthesia, the pacemaker generator stopped discharging, thus causing cardiac arrest. The likely cause of the generator failure was inhibition by suxamethonium-induced muscle fasciculations. Following defibrillation, and increase in stimulation threshold necessitated urgent insertion of a transvenous pacing system. It is suggested that, when suxamethonium is to be used in a patient with a permanent pacemaker, consideration should be given to reprogramming the pacemaker to asynchronous mode before induction of anaesthesia. If a patient with a pacemaker requires defibrillation, an acute increase in stimulation threshold may result and cause loss of capture. Rapid insertion of a transvenous pacing system may be necessary. 
Etiology of autism: genetic influences. In summary, there are a few specific genetic conditions that can be associated with autism. Among cases of unknown etiology, there is ample evidence for a higher genetic liability to autism in siblings of autistic probands than expected from the population prevalence. It appears likely that both parents and siblings have a higher liability for social and cognitive deficits that are milder but conceptually similar to those found in autism. Others factors may alter this underlying genetic liability such as sex, IQ, and prenatal and perinatal injury. In the future, genetic analyses and genetic linkage studies will need to consider using a broader definition of the autism phenotype to include not only autism but severe cognitive and social deficits. The exact genetic mechanisms and genes involved are the subject of current investigations by several research groups. Investigations in this area are likely to continue to provide important information about the causes of autism. 
Renovascular hypertension: predicting surgical cure with exercise renography. Renal artery stenosis with resultant renovascular hypertension has attracted clinical attention because the disease is potentially curable and because numerous diagnostic and therapeutic modalities compete for clinical acceptance. An exercise-mediated disturbance of renal hippurate transport was recently described, and has been implicated as having a role in nephrogenic fixed hypertension. To predict the final course of renovascular hypertension before operation we carried out a prospective study with the goal of verifying the predictive value of exercise hippurate scintigraphy. The study was to test the hypothesis that patients with disturbance of renal hippurate transport (pathologic renogram) induced by exercise would have stabilized hypertension and would continue to be hypertensive after operation. Thirty-one patients with hypertension who had unilateral or bilateral renovascular stenosis documented on angiography were referred to rest and exercise hippurate scintigrams before operation. The results of the examinations at rest served as standard and were compared with the exercise scintigrams. In 19 of the 31 (61%) patients a disturbance of transrenal hippurate transport evolved during exercise, whereas 12 (39%) patients failed to respond to exercise with altered hippurate kinetics. Twenty-six patients went on to renovascular operations; five had percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Revascularization results differed markedly when the blood pressure response of patients with positive results on exercise (abnormal) and patients with negative results on exercise (normal) were compared. Ten of 12 patients with hypertension who had normal exercise renograms were cured. In comparison, blood pressure values were little influenced by therapy in patients with an abnormal response, where 17 of 19 patients continued to have hypertensive disease after therapy. 
Report of the Council on Scientific Affairs: ultrasonic imaging of the heart: report of the Ultrasonography Task Force. The use of ultrasonography in cardiology has progressed so dramatically that not only is anatomic information available but information can also be derived about cardiac hemodynamics. Applications range from intravascular ultrasonic imaging of coronary atherosclerosis to predictions of the severity of fetal valvular pulmonic stenosis detected in utero. We reviewed cardiac ultrasonography as utilized in B-mode imaging, pulsed and continuous-wave spectral Doppler, and Doppler color flow mapping. We reviewed specialized areas, including stress echo for wall motion analysis, valvular and congenital heart disease applications, and new applications in intraoperative, transesophageal, contrast echography, coronary imaging, and fetal echocardiography. Finally, future applications of quantitative flow mapping and intraluminal and interventional ultrasonography were considered along with the required technological advances. 
Unproven methods of cancer management. Livingston-Wheeler therapy. Livingston-Wheeler's cancer treatment is based on the belief that cancer is caused by a bacterium she has named Progenitor cryptocides. Careful research using modern techniques, however, has shown that there is no such organism and that Livingston-Wheeler has apparently mistaken several different types of bacteria, both rare and common, for a unique microbe. In spite of diligent research to isolate a cancer-causing microorganism, none has been found. Similarly, Livingston-Wheeler's autologous vaccine cannot be considered an effective treatment for cancer. While many oncologists have expressed the hope that someday a vaccine will be developed against cancer, the cause(s) of cancer must be determined before research can be directed toward developing a vaccine. The rationale for other facets of the Livingston-Wheeler cancer therapy is similarly faulty. No evidence supports her contention that cancer results from a defective immune system, that a whole-foods diet restores immune system deficiencies, that abscisic acid slows tumor growth, or that cancer is transmitted to humans by chickens. 
Tube feeding-related diarrhea in acutely Ill patients. Acutely ill patients received tube feeding for an average of 15.8 days and, on average, 35% of those days were spent in the intensive care unit (ICU). Patients were prospectively assigned either a fiber-free formula (FFF-OSMOLITE HN, Ross; n = 50) or a fiber-supplemented (soy polysaccharide 14.4 g/L) formula (FSF = JEVITY, Ross; n = 50). Diarrhea was defined as three or more loose or watery stools per day and occurred in 30% of all patients. Diarrhea developed in 29 (41%) of the 71 patients who received antibiotics during, or within 2 weeks prior to, the feeding period, whereas only 1 (3%) of the 29 patients not receiving antibiotics developed diarrhea (p less than 0.005); and this patient developed diarrhea on the day of death. Among the 30 patients with diarrhea, stool Clostridium difficile (CD) toxin was positive in 15 (50%), negative in 11 (37%), and was not measured in four. The mean serum albumin was significantly lower in patients with diarrhea (2.43) than in those without diarrhea (2.75) (p = 0.043). There were no significant differences in age, sex, diagnoses, number of feeding days, and percent ICU days between patients with and without diarrhea. While not statistically significant, patients who received FSF were observed to have a lower incidence of diarrhea, a lower percentage of diarrhea days per total feeding days, and a lower frequency of positive CD toxin assays than patients who received FFF. In this patient population, antibiotic usage was the factor most strongly associated with diarrhea during tube feedings. 
Factors affecting decisions to institutionalize demented elderly. This study followed 321 community-based patients with documented dementias, 22% of whom were institutionalized after 1 year. Multivariate analyses indicated that none of the patient characteristics, such as level of cognitive, psychiatric, or neurological impairment, predicted institutionalization. Social psychological characteristics, type and number of caregivers, and subjective caregiver distress did predict which patients were ultimately institutionalized. Implications for treatment planning are discussed. 
Low back pain: review of diagnosis and therapy. Low back pain is a patient complaint frequently encountered in the emergency department setting. The disease entity is often a diagnostic challenge with a subtle presentation, but can be accompanied by significant neurovascular complications. Current topics of controversy include the utility of radiologic evaluation, pharmacologic and holistic treatment strategies, as well as guidelines for urgent referral of patients with lumbar pain. 
Hyperfractionated radiation therapy in brain stem tumors. Results of treatment at the 7020 cGy dose level of Pediatric Oncology Group study #8495. Between May 1986 and February 1988, 57 patients were accrued to the second dose level of a Phase I/II Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) study exploring the use of hyperfractionated radiation therapy (HRT) in children with high-risk brain stem tumors. Local fields were treated with fraction sizes of 117 cGy given twice daily, with a minimum interfraction interval of 6 hours, to a total dose of 7020 cGy in 60 fractions over 6 weeks. Information regarding clinical status during HRT was available for 55 patients (44 [80%] improved, 6 remained stable, and 5 deteriorated). Results of initial and follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were available for review for 52 patients. One patient had a complete response (CR) to treatment, 3 had a partial response (PR) (more than 50% response), and 40 remained stable, for a total response rate (CR + PR + stable) of 77%. Median time to disease progression was 6 months. Median survival time was 10 months. Survival rate was 39.6% (standard error [SE] = 6.6%) at 1 year and 23% (SE = 5.8%) at 2 years. Complications of treatment included an enhanced skin reaction in six patients and otitis media and/or externa in nine. One patient bled into tumor shortly after completion of HRT, and three had intralesional necrosis. Five patients continued taking steroids for protracted periods in the face of improved clinical and/or radiologic findings. Complications related to the use of steroids included opportunistic infections, impaired glucose tolerance, hypertension, osteoporosis, and significant mood changes. In no patient was there evidence of any late injury attributable to HRT. When compared with results of treatment with HRT at a lower dose level (6600 cGy), there appears to be a trend toward improved survival at 7020 cGy despite a less favorable patient population at the higher dose level. A second dose escalation to 7560 cGy in 60 fractions over 6 weeks has been implemented as planned. 
Sleep apnea in acromegaly. OBJECTIVE: To provide information on the nature, prevalence, and severity of sleep apnea in patients with acromegaly. DESIGN: Consecutive case series. SETTING: Tertiary referral hospital. PATIENTS: Fifty-three patients with acromegaly were consecutively referred: 33 patients were referred because of clinical suspicion of sleep apnea and 20 patients were referred without suspected apnea. MEASUREMENTS: Sleep studies as well as growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) measurements were done. MAIN RESULTS: Thirty-one patients (93%; 95% Cl, 85% to 100%) referred because of suspicion of sleep apnea had sleep apnea compared with 12 patients (60%; Cl, 37% to 83%) referred without suspected sleep apnea. Patients with sleep apnea did not have biochemical evidence of increased disease activity (random growth hormone, 12.7 +/- 4.4 micrograms/L; mean growth hormone at 24-hour sampling, 10.8 +/- 8.4 micrograms/L; IGF-1, 90.0 +/- 7.5 nmol/L) compared with patients without sleep apnea (random growth hormone, 14.2 +/- 4.9 micrograms/L, P greater than 0.2; mean growth hormone, 12.4 +/- 3.5 micrograms/L, P greater than 0.2; IGF-1, 90.0 +/- 10.0 nmol/L, P greater than 0.2). Central sleep apnea was the predominant type of apnea in 33% (Cl, 18% to 47%) of patients and was associated with higher random growth hormone and IGF-1 levels than was obstructive apnea (random growth hormone, 23.4 +/- 3.9 compared with 8.8 +/- 3.1 micrograms/L, P less than 0.001; IGF-1, 126 +/- 17.5 compared with 72.5 +/- 7.5 nmol/L, P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Sleep apnea is common in acromegaly. The rate of central sleep apnea was unexpectedly high in patients with acromegaly, and biochemical evidence of increased disease activity was associated with the presence of central apnea rather than with the degree of sleep apnea. Altered respiratory control is a possible mechanism producing sleep apnea in acromegaly. 
Aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in persons aged 80 years and over. Seventy-one patients aged greater than or equal to 80 years (mean +/- standard deviation 82 +/- 2) with aortic stenosis or mixed stenosis and regurgitation underwent aortic valve replacement alone (n = 35, group 1) or in combination with a coronary artery bypass procedure without any other valve procedure (n = 36, group 2). Preoperatively, 91% had severe cardiac limitations (New York Heart Association class III or IV). Hospital mortality was 12.7% overall (9 of 71), 5.7% (2 of 35) for group 1 and 19.4% (7 of 36) for group 2. Perioperatively, 1 patient (1.4%) had a stroke. Survival from late cardiac death at 1 and 3 years was 98.2 and 95.5%, respectively, for all patients, 100% for patients who underwent isolated aortic valve replacement, and 96.3 and 91.2%, respectively, for patients who underwent aortic valve replacement plus coronary artery bypass. Eighty-three percent of surviving patients had marked symptomatic improvement. Freedom from all valve-related complications (thromboembolism, anticoagulant, endocarditis, reoperation or prosthetic failure) was 93.3 and 80.4% at 1 and 3 years, respectively. Thus, short- and long-term morbidity and mortality after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in patients aged greater than or equal to 80 years are encouragingly low, although the addition of coronary artery bypass grafting increases short- and long-term mortality. 
Recognizing and naming tunes: memory impairment in the elderly. Subjects over the age of 50 listened to theme tunes of remote, recent, and frequent television programs. If they recognized the tune, they were asked for the name of the program and for as much information about the program as possible. From the responses to a subsequent questionnaire, it was possible to divide the data according to whether or not the subjects watched the programs. There was no effect of age on the recognition and naming of programs subjects never watched. For programs they watched (a true test of memory), older subjects recognized fewer tunes as familiar and were less able than younger subjects to name the programs with familiar tunes. Neither the amount of exposure nor the delay since exposure had a significant influence on the recognition and naming impairments with age. Older subjects reported less information about programs they watched than younger subjects. In multiple regression analyses, age was a better predictor of performance than measures of current cognitive ability. The results are compared with the effects of age on the recognition and naming of famous faces (Maylor, 1990a). It is argued that the studies together support the view that the information processing rate decreases with age; therefore the elderly are poor at speeded tasks, the most dramatic effects appearing for later components of sequential processes. 
Late cardiac tamponade after open-heart surgery. Late cardiac tamponade occurred in 74 patients 5-287 (median 16) days after open-heart surgery and was treated with pericardiocentesis or surgery. The overall incidence of late cardiac tamponade was 1.3%. After valve operations it was 2.6% and after isolated coronary surgery 0.7% (53/2,028 vs. 18/2,661, p less than 0.002). The diagnosis was assessed by echocardiography in 93% of cases. Pericardiocentesis, attempted in 65 cases (88%), was curative in 80% but failed in 20%. Eight of the latter 13 underwent emergency surgery and five were medically treated. Failure of pericardiocentesis was associated with posterior location of fluid, clots, echo-free space less than 20 mm or myocardial insufficiency. The subxiphoid part of the wound was surgically re-entered in ten cases and the entire sternotomy in seven. Four patients (5%) died within 30 days of the primary intervention. All hospital survivors were observed for a median of 44 (range 11-115) months. Three (4%) had recurrent pericardial effusion requiring repeat pericardiocentesis, but none had pericardial constriction. The 5-year survival rate was 73%. 
Manometric and radiologic investigations and biofeedback treatment of chronic idiopathic anal pain. In 12 patients suffering from chronic idiopathic anal pain, the rectosphincteric function was studied using manometric and x-ray techniques. The results of manometric investigations were compared with those obtained in 12 healthy volunteers. In all patients, the resting pressure in the anal canal was significantly higher than in control subjects. In 10 patients, defecography revealed abnormalities of the pelvic muscles. We treated the patients by using biofeedback techniques, consisting of voluntary modifications of the state of contraction of the external sphincter. In all cases, pain disappeared after a mean of eight biofeedback training sessions. When noxious manifestations had disappeared, manometry showed a significant decrease in the anal canal resting pressure. Our results indicate 1) that chronic idiopathic anal pain is associated with abnormal anorectal manometric profiles, probably resulting from a dysfunctioning of the striated external anal sphincter, and 2) that biofeedback training is an effective treatment for chronic idiopathic anal pain. 
In vitro balloon dilatation of mitral valve stenosis: the importance of subvalvar involvement as a cause of mitral valve insufficiency. To investigate the mechanism that increases the orifice area of the mitral valve during balloon dilatation 43 surgically excised intact rheumatic mitral valves were studied. The main pathological features were (a) fibrosis of mitral valve leaflets and commissures (10 valves); (b) fibrosis with calcification of one commissure (eight anterolateral, seven posteromedial); (c) fibrosis with calcification of both commissures (seven valves); and (d) predominant involvement of the subvalvar apparatus (11 valves). The valves were assessed by photography and radiography before and after balloon dilatation (balloons up to 38 mm (bifoil 2 x 19 mm) and pressures up to 4 atmospheres). The valve was dilated in stages under direct visual control by balloons of increasing diameter. Splitting of the fused commissures was the most common mode of widening the orifice. However, the mitral valve leaflets were torn in two fibrotic valves and in six valves with extensive involvement of the subvalvar apparatus. In the fibrotic valves (group (a] the tear originated near the valve perimeter, at the thinnest part of the remaining valve leaflet. In the valves with subvalvar involvement splitting started at the apex of spaces between the fused chordal columns and proceeded upward. Where there is extensive involvement of the subvalvar apparatus in rheumatic mitral valve disease the risk of tearing of the valve leaflets by balloon dilatation is increased and this is likely to predispose to the development of acute valvar insufficiency. 
Comparison of sucralfate and ranitidine in the treatment of duodenal ulcers. Ninety patients with endoscopically proven duodenal ulcers, enrolled in this prospective, single-blind study, were randomized to sucralfate, 1 g q.i.d., 0.5 hour before meals on an empty stomach or at bedtime, or ranitidine, 150 mg b.i.d., for 4-8 weeks (phase I). Patients who healed during the treatment period were invited to participate in a maintenance therapy follow-up covering 1 year (phase II), during which they were treated with sucralfate, 1 g b.i.d. (before breakfast and at bedtime) or 150 mg of ranitidine at bedtime. After 4 weeks of treatment, healing rates were 30/40 (75.0%) with sucralfate and 36/42 (85.7%) with ranitidine, and healing rates were 39/40 (97.6%) and 40/42 (95.2%) respectively, after 8 weeks of treatment. At the end of the 6th and 12th months of phase II, respectively, relapse rates were 3/33 (9.4%) and 10/32 (31.3%) in the sucralfate group and 5/33 (15.2%) and 10/29 (34.5%) in the ranitidine group. Differences between sucralfate- and ranitidine-treated groups were not significant. Both treatments were well tolerated. We conclude that sucralfate is as effective and safe as ranitidine in the short-term treatment and prevention of relapse in patients with ulcer disease. 
Hepatocarcinoma in cirrhosis. Is antithrombin III a neoplastic marker? It has been reported that hepatoma (HCC) cells produce abnormal proteins such as erytropietin, fibrinogen, prothrombin, and, recently, antithrombin III (AT III). In a preliminary report, we reported increased AT III levels in patients bearing HCC independent of their clinical liver status. The present study was performed to assess antithrombin III levels and other serological data present in patients with cirrhosis and in patients with cirrhosis and clinical findings of neoplastic disease. In 70 well-matched patients (47 with cirrhosis and 23 with cirrhosis and proven HCC) serum total cholesterol, albumin, prothrombin, alkaline phosphatase, AFP, aminotransferases, and AT III were determined. Together with AFP and alkaline phosphatase, patients with HCC had higher values of AT III (88 +/- 7%) and total cholesterol (184 +/- 17 mg/100 ml), as compared with cirrhotic patients (AT III 56 +/- 3.6%; total cholesterol 113 +/- 5 mg/100 ml) (P less than 0.001). No difference was observed between these two groups for albumin, prothrombin, and aminotransferases. In HCC patients, AT III levels were related to the total cholesterol level (R2 = 0.317), whereas in the cirrhotic patients it correlated with the prothrombin level (R2 = 0.274). These data suggest that in HCC patients a greater rate of synthesis of AT III occurs, whereas in cirrhotic patients lower levels of AT III occur due to impaired synthesis or increased catabolism of the protein. The serial determination of AT III in cirrhotic patients as a means of detecting neoplastic transformation is suggested. 
Scintigraphic studies of inflammation in diffuse lung disease. 67Ga lung scintigraphy is an established means to assess alveolar inflammation in a wide variety of diffuse lung diseases. It can be used to monitor the extent and activity of the alveolitis during the course of the disease and as a follow-up evaluation to therapy. Although the mechanism of 67Ga localization is not established firmly, the isotope appears to act as a tracer for disturbed protein and cellular fluxes within the interstitium and alveolar spaces. The radiolabeled aerosol study may also be applied to the study of these fluxes as a reflection of inflammation and injury. Although Tc-DTPA clearance studies are highly sensitive to lung injury, they may be too nonspecific to separate lung injury from other physiologic processes effectively. 
Effect of dobutamine on oxygen consumption and fluid and protein losses after endotoxemia. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of a dobutamine infusion on the relationship between oxygen consumption (VO2) and oxygen delivery (DO2) after endotoxin administration, as well as the rate of fluid and protein loss from permeability-injured tissue. METHODS: Unanesthetized adult sheep with lung and soft-tissue lymph fistulas were given 5 micrograms/kg Escherichia coli endotoxin alone, or E. coli endotoxin plus a continuous infusion of dobutamine (10 to 15 micrograms/kg.min) beginning at 3 hrs. Lymph flow reflected the vascular permeability and surface area perfused. Data were compared with dobutamine alone and with controls. Filling pressures were maintained at baseline. RESULTS: Dobutamine alone produced a 75% increase in DO2, a transient 10 +/- 4% increase in VO2, but no increase in lung or soft-tissue lymph flow. Beginning at 3 hrs after endotoxin alone, a significant increase in protein-rich lung and soft-tissue lymph flow was noted, but only a transient 14 +/- 5% increase in VO2. Plasma proteins were slightly decreased. With the addition of dobutamine at 3 hrs postendotoxin, DO2 increased by greater than 50% for the 3-hr infusion period, while VO2 increased for a 30-min period by 25 +/- 8%, which was not different than endotoxin alone. Lung and soft-tissue lymph flow did not increase further, but plasma proteins did decrease significantly compared with controls and with endotoxin alone. CONCLUSION: Increasing DO2 with dobutamine postendotoxin does not increase the surface area perfused or the edema process, at least in lung and soft tissue. Therefore, no microvessels in these tissues are reopened with dobutamine when normal filling pressures are present. Dobutamine administration does not increase VO2 more than the increase seen with endotoxin alone. 
Ischaemic spinal cord lesion following percutaneous radiofrequency spinal rhizotomy. Two patients are presented in whom percutaneous radiofrequency spinal rhizotomy was complicated by contralateral paresis. Both patients were elderly and suffered from cardiac failure, chronic obstructive respiratory disease, and generalized vascular disease. Investigation of the paresis indicated a contralateral ischaemic cord lesion. It is suggested that local haemodynamic changes induced by heat-mediated rhizotomy may compromise oxygen delivery to the adjacent cord, especially in the presence of pre-existent cardiovascular disease. 
Advances in pediatric emergency department procedures. Pediatric procedures in the Emergency Department typically involve techniques for stabilization, evaluation, and treatment of the child. This article considers indications and techniques for vascular access, lumbar puncture, arterial lines, pulse oximetry, and urine collection. Multiple routes of medication administration and pain management modalities also are reviewed. 
Yersinia enterocolitica infection with ileal perforation associated with iron overload and deferoxamine therapy. Despite the frequency of gastrointestinal disease caused by Yersinia enterocolitica, intestinal perforation is a rare complication of this infection and to date only eight cases have been reported in the English literature. We describe a case of this unusual condition in a 17-year-old male patient with thalassemia intermedia requiring transfusion, who was also taking deferoxamine. The severity of the clinical picture is probably due to the increased virulence of Yersinia enterocolitica in the presence of deferoxamine and iron. 
Increased all-cause and cardiac morbidity and mortality associated with the diagonal earlobe crease: a prospective cohort study. PURPOSE: To ascertain whether the diagonal earlobe crease (ELC) is associated prospectively with future death or cardiac events over 8 years of follow-up in two sets of patients: those with known coronary artery disease (CAD) and those without evidence for CAD. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a prospective, observational study of 108 patients in four cohorts (each matched for age, sex, and race, but differing in the presence or absence of both a diagonal ELC and CAD in 1979 to 1982). Follow-up information was gathered by telephone interviews, and dates and causes of death were determined by reference to death certificates (n = 48), hospital records (n = 9), or attending physician statements (n = 1). RESULTS: During 8 to 10 years of follow-up, 58 of the patients had died. Patients with ELCs had poorer survival rates than those without creases, by stratified log-rank test (p = 0.006 for the cohorts thought not to have CAD, and p = 0.058 for those with CAD). Cardiac death rates (due to acute myocardial infarction, "sudden cardiac death," or heart failure) were also higher for patients with ELCs: 8.0 versus 0.9 cardiac deaths per 100 patient-years (p less than 0.001) in patients without CAD at entry, and 11.7 versus 3.7 cardiac deaths per 100 patient-years (p = 0.008) in patients with CAD in 1979 to 1982. Cardiac event rates (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or coronary artery bypass surgery) were also higher in those with ELCs: 10.4 versus 1.4 events per 100 patient-years (p less than 0.001) for those without known CAD, and 15.8 versus 5.7 events per 100 patient-years (p = 0.009) for those with CAD. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that a diagonal ELC is associated with increased all-cause and cardiac morbidity and mortality. Patients with ELCs may be at higher risk for coronary events, and might be especially cautioned to control or reduce other cardiac risk factors, even if currently without diagnostic evidence of CAD. 
Goiter and hypothyroidism during re-treatment with amiodarone in a patient who previously experienced amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis. A 55-year-old woman who had been receiving treatment with amiodarone for recurrent supraventricular tachyarrhythmias became thyrotoxic after 30 months of treatment. The thyroid gland was not enlarged or tender. Amiodarone was discontinued, and thyrotoxicosis gradually abated. A thyroid scan performed at that time revealed a gland of normal size and texture. Six months later, amiodarone treatment was reinstated due to life-threatening tachyarrhythmia; however, the patient remained euthyroid. Three years later, multinodular goiter began to develop, and 5 years after that, the patient became hypothyroid. Tests for thyroid autoantibodies, as well as inhibitory and stimulatory antibodies, were negative, and fine needle aspiration biopsy revealed an adenomatous goiter. Treatment with amiodarone was continued; however, therapy with L-thyroxin was initiated, followed by a complete regression of the goiter. The patient has since required a maintenance dose of L-thyroxin. The possible mechanisms by which iodine-containing drugs induce thyroid disfunction are reviewed, suggesting this case was caused by an alteration in the sensitivity of the intrinsic autoregulation of the thyroid gland to iodine. 
Maintenance therapy in peptic ulcer disease. The maxim "once an ulcer, always an ulcer" is still an appropriate description for the chronic nature of peptic ulcer disease. The goals for treating patients with ulcer disease are to relieve symptoms, heal the acute ulcer, reduce the risk of ulcer recurrence and complications, and decrease the economic impact of this chronic disease while maintaining the patient's quality of life. Patients with documented peptic ulcer disease should be carefully evaluated and a treatment plan devised that takes into account the possible need for maintenance therapy. Risk factors that seem to reflect a high likelihood of ulcer recurrence should be identified early in all ulcer patients and attempts made to minimize or correct them in the future. Assuming that a diagnosis of peptic ulcer disease has been firmly established and an adequate period of drug treatment makes complete ulcer healing likely, a reasonable way to proceed is outlined in Figure 4. If the patient is young and generally healthy, has an uncomplicated ulcer and few risk factors favoring ulcer relapse, either no treatment or symptomatic selfcare would be reasonable. If one chooses the latter course, the patient can be given a prescription for 3 to 6 months of medication and told to take full therapy for any recurrent symptoms, continuing the treatment until symptoms are relieved. The failure of such treatment to relieve symptoms after 2 to 3 weeks, the onset of alarming symptoms such as intense pain, vomiting, or melena, or possibly the exhaustion of the 6-month supply of medication with continued mild symptoms should lead to reevaluation. Alternatively, such a patient could be managed with no therapy and seen again if ulcer symptoms recur and reevaluated for further diagnosis and treatment. Obviously, patients who are candidates for these approaches to postulcer healing management are those with a low risk for ulcer recurrence and who are likely to be compliant with follow-up advice. Accordingly, careful patient selection seems most important in prescribing symptomatic self-care or intermittent full-dose maintenance treatment. On the other hand, if the patient has had a complicated course of ulcer disease, such as bleeding, or has a significant number of risk factors that would make early ulcer relapse highly likely, it would be prudent to institute continuous maintenance therapy while working to reduce or eliminate the adverse risk factors. Any relapse of symptomatic ulcer disease during noncontinuous maintenance therapy should indicate the need for return to a continuous dosing program.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The role of leukotriene antagonists and inhibitors in the treatment of airway disease. Since the early recognition that leukotrienes are generated in response to allergen exposure, a role for these multipurpose mediators has been sought. The pharmacologic actions of the leukotrienes and their cell sources were strong evidence that they should contribute to allergic airway disease. That promise is now being fulfilled. Potent leukotriene receptor antagonists and enzyme inhibitors of leukotriene generation are now being investigated. With the availability of these new compounds, not only will greater insight to leukotrienes in asthma become apparent, but possibly newer, more effective therapeutics. Of additional interest and relevance is the potential role of leukotrienes in other nonrespiratory inflammatory diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and psoriasis. Therefore, the role of leukotrienes in inflammation is not limited to the respiratory system but are more universal in their ability to cause tissue injury. Consequently, studies that have shown benefit from inhibition of leukotriene synthesis and antagonism of the LTD4 receptor in respiratory diseases are suggestive that such an approach will also be beneficial in other inflammatory diseases. For example, a study of 72 patients with A-64077 (zileuton) has demonstrated that 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors are efficacious in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. Therefore, the contribution of leukotrienes to inflammation is likely to be a global phenomenon, and the introduction of leukotriene antagonists and 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors may represent the beginning of a new era for the treatment of many inflammatory diseases. 
Waterborne outbreak of Norwalk virus gastroenteritis at a southwest US resort: role of geological formations in contamination of well water. From April 17 to May 1, 1989, gastroenteritis developed in about 900 people during a visit to a new resort in Arizona, USA. Of 240 guests surveyed, 110 had a gastrointestinal illness that was significantly associated with the drinking of tap water from the resort's well (relative risk = 16.1, 95% confidence interval 14.5 to 17.8) and this risk increased significantly with the number of glasses of water consumed (p less than 0.005). Three of seven paired sera tested for antibodies to the Norwalk agent had a four-fold or greater rise in titre. Water contaminated with faecal coliforms was traced back to the deep water well, which remained contaminated even after prolonged pumping. Effluent from the resort's sewage treatment facility seeped through fractures in the subsurface rock (with little filtration) directly into the resort's deep well. Although the latest technology was used to design the resort's water and sewage treatment plants, the region's unique geological conditions posed unexpected problems that may trouble developers faced with similar subsurface geological formations and arid climatic conditions in many parts of the world. In these areas, novel solutions are needed to provide adequate facilities for the treatment of sewage and supply of pure drinking water. 
Prospective hospital based study on persistent diarrhoea. A total of 383 children aged less than 5 years suffering from acute watery diarrhoea or dysentery were studied in hospital to determine the rate of persistent diarrhoea. Altogether 335 (87.5%) recovered within 13 days. Only in 48 (12.5%) did the diarrhoea continue for 14 days or more, and they were considered as having persistent diarrhoea. Children aged between 7 and 18 months had a significantly increased incidence of persistent diarrhoea. Children suffering from grade II-IV malnutrition constituted the majority (70.8%) of those with persistent diarrhoea. Higher rates of isolation of Shigella flexneri, Shigella dysenteriae 1, and Salmonella typhimurium were observed among patients with persistent diarrhoea than in those with diarrhoea of shorter duration. No positive correlations were observed between the clinical severity of disease at hospital admission and measles. Breast fed babies were not prone to persistent diarrhoea. 
Antihypertensive drug use. Trends in the United States from 1973 to 1985. Hypertension, a major public health problem, often requires drug therapy. We examined trends in outpatient antihypertensive drug use in the United States from 1973 to 1985. The numbers of prescriptions and the diagnostic and drug treatment information were obtained from the National Prescription Audit (Ambler, Pa, IMS America, 1985) the National Disease and Therapeutic Index (Ambler, Pa, IMS America, 1985), ongoing surveys of pharmacies, and office-based physicians. We adjusted drug-use data for the fact that several antihypertensive drugs also have other uses. During the study period, the annual numbers of prescriptions for treatment of hypertension progressively increased from 128.1 to 208.6 million, an average change of 5% per year. In 1973, the three leading classes of antihypertensive drugs were thiazide diuretic agents, peripheral neuronal inhibitors, and central alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulators. By 1985, the thiazide drugs were still the leader, followed by beta-adrenergic receptor blockers and potassium-sparing diuretic drugs. The use trends presented are consistent with surveys indicating increased drug therapy of hypertension from 1960 to the present. 
Cerebral akinetopsia (visual motion blindness). A review. Cerebral akinetopsia is a syndrome in which a patient loses specifically the ability to perceive visual motion following cortical lesions outside the striate cortex. There has been only one good case of akinetopsia in the published literature. Yet that case was immediately accepted by the neurological world. In this, cerebral akinetopsia differs markedly from cerebral achromatopsia, the evidence for which was strongly contested for the better part of a century (Zeki, 1990). This article complements the one on cerebral achromatopsia, traces the history of akinetopsia and enquires into why it was so much more readily acceptable than achromatopsia. 
Low-dose cyclopenthiazide in the treatment of hypertension: a one-year community-based study. After an 8-week placebo period, 73 patients whose diastolic blood pressures were between 90 and 110 mmHg were randomly assigned to receive 125 micrograms (low dose) or 500 micrograms of cyclopenthiazide (standard dose) for a period of one year. Blood pressure was measured in the patient's home by the same observer at two-weekly intervals during an 8-week placebo run-in period, every 4 weeks for a further 12 weeks and at 24, 36 and 52 weeks thereafter. Serum potassium, urate, glucose, glycosylated haemoglobin, total and HDL cholesterol, and apolipoproteins were measured at the end of the placebo period and at 4, 8, 24 and 52 weeks of active treatment. Twelve of the 73 patients had an inadequate antihypertensive response--five on the higher dose and seven on the lower dose. One patient receiving 500 micrograms was withdrawn because of adverse effects. In the remaining 60 patients, systolic and diastolic blood pressures were significantly reduced when compared with pretreatment values in both treatment groups throughout the one year period. The decreases in blood pressure were not significantly different from each other (p greater than 0.65). Three patients on 500 micrograms required potassium supplements. Maximum decreases in the serum potassium of 0.52 mmol/l (500 micrograms dose) and 0.14 mmol/l (125 micrograms dose) were observed at 24 weeks of treatment in the remaining 57 patients. The differences between the two doses at this time were statistically significant (p less than 0.05), as were the increases in serum urate observed at 4, 8 and 24 weeks (p less than 0.05). 
Ossified mucin-secreting choroid plexus adenoma: case report. This is the first report of a fully documented case of an ossified mucin-producing benign choroid plexus tumor. This was a chance finding in a man who complained only of posttraumatic low back discomfort. The ossification of the tumor appears to have been therapeutic. Mucin production may be a defense mechanism. 
Androscopy for anogenital HPV BACKGROUND. Strong evidence now links anogenital intraepithelial neoplasia to the transmission of the human papillomavirus (HPV) through sexual intercourse. While there is increasing research on women with this disease, less is known about their male sexual partners. METHODS. Male patients whose female sexual partners had been diagnosed as having anogenital intraepithelial neoplasia were recruited for the study. The genital regions of the male patients were examined and biopsied with the aid of a colposcope after application of a 5% acetic acid solution. Treatment was based on the specific findings in each patient. RESULTS. Genital lesions were found on 65% of the male patients examined, even though no disease had been detected by the individual. Seventy-nine percent of patients who were compliant with the prescribed treatment protocol had no detectable HPV-related lesions at the time of their last androscopic examination. CONCLUSIONS. Magnified examination of the male genitalia using an androscope following the application of 5% acetic acid solution is an effective method by which the primary care physician can detect and treat male HPV-related anogenital lesions. 
An animal model for colon cancer metastatic cell line with enhanced metastasizing ability. Establishment and characterization. We have developed an animal model for colon cancer metastasis and produced a metastasizing tumor after using a microinjection technique to inject SW480 cells into the cecal wall of athymic nude mice during "minilaparotomy." After the metastatic foci formed in murine lung, an in vitro primary culture was performed and a new metastatic cancer cell line, which was designated as CC-ML3, was established. The studies included: 1) the comparison between SW 480 and CC-ML3 in morphology, growth kinetics, seeding and plating efficiency, and karyotype; and 2) carcino-embryonic antigen determination, origination, and metastatic ability of CC-ML3. The results showed that CC-ML3 was significantly different from SW480 in vitro and possessed a high metastatic potential in vivo. This newly developed animal model may thus be useful for studying the biology and pathogenesis of metastasis of human colonic cancer. 
Intravascular ultrasound guidance for catheter-based coronary interventions. Intravascular ultrasound is a new method for visualizing the details of vascular pathology, providing high resolution images of plaque and thrombus. This review summarizes the potential applications of ultrasound imaging in the guidance of balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, laser ablation and stenting. Ultrasound differs from angiography and angioscopy in its ability to penetrate below the surface of the vessel lumen, demonstrating specific aspects about the distribution and composition of plaque. Because the different layers of the arterial wall have different acoustic properties, ultrasound catheters are able to define the layers of normal wall in comparison with plaque. Particularly in combination with therapeutic techniques designed to remove or ablate plaque, ultrasound may prove useful in maximizing the amount of plaque treated and minimizing trauma to normal vessel wall components. Combined imaging/therapeutic devices are in the pilot phase of development and show promise for enhancing the safety and efficacy of the catheter devices. 
Clinical experience with the Palmaz-Schatz coronary stent. Complications that occurred in 247 patients who underwent successful elective stenting to native coronary arteries with the Palmaz-Schatz balloon expandable stent included subacute thrombosis in 7 patients (2.8%), myocardial infarction in 3 (1.2%), death 3 (1.2%), urgent bypass surgery in 4 (1.6%) and major bleeding events in 24 (9.7%). Angiographic restenosis occurred in 21 (20%) of 103 patients who received a single stent. Subgroup analysis, however, revealed that restenosis of a single stent occurred in 3 (7%) of 45 patients without prior angioplasty compared with 25 (27%) of 91 patients with prior angioplasty. Patients with "suboptimal" angioplasty results (dis-section) who received a single stent seemed to have a higher thrombosis rate perioperatively (4 [4%] of 98), but no higher incidence of restenosis (7 [15%] of 46) than that of the total group of patients who received a single stent. Coronary stenting may be a valuable adjunct to coronary angioplasty in carefully selected patients. Complication rates are similar to those of routine angioplasty; however, angiographic restenosis may be reduced in certain subsets of patients. 
Pulmonary hypertension associated with long-standing thrombocytosis. A case of thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension associated with long-standing thrombocytosis is presented. In this patient we found a significant local pulmonary platelet activation and thrombin generation as indicated by the existence of a transpulmonary gradient for thromboxane A2, beta thromboglobulin and fibrinopeptide A. Prolonged heparin and acetylsalicylic acid treatment resulted in improvement of clinical and hemodynamic conditions. These findings support the usefulness of anticoagulating and antiaggregating therapy in selected cases of pulmonary hypertension. 
Targeting cancer chemotherapeutic agents by use of lipiodol contrast medium. Arterially administered Lipiodol Ultrafluid contrast medium selectively remained in various malignant solid tumors because of the difference in time required for the removal of Lipiodol contrast medium from normal capillaries and tumor neovasculature. Although blood flow was maintained in the tumor, even immediately after injection Lipiodol contrast medium remained in the neovasculature of the tumor. To target anti-cancer agents to tumors by using Lipiodol contrast medium as a carrier, the characteristics of the agents were examined. Anti-cancer agents had to be soluble in Lipiodol, be stable in it, and separate gradually from it so that the anti-cancer agents would selectively remain in the tumor. These conditions were found to be necessary on the basis of the measurement of radioactivity in VX2 tumors implanted in the liver of 16 rabbits that received arterial injections of 14C-labeled doxorubicin. Antitumor activities and side effects of arterial injections of two types of anti-cancer agents were compared in 76 rabbits with VX2 tumors. Oily anti-cancer agents that had characteristics essential for targeting were compared with simple mixtures of anti-cancer agents with Lipiodol contrast medium that did not have these essential characteristics. Groups of rabbits that received oily anti-cancer agents responded significantly better than groups that received simple mixtures, and side effects were observed more frequently in the groups that received the simple mixtures. These results suggest that targeting of the anti-cancer agent to the tumor is important for treatment of solid malignant tumors. 
Antithrombin III supplementation reduces heparin requirement and platelet loss during hemodialysis of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. Previous studies have shown that antithrombin III levels are low in fulminant hepatic failure, and heparin kinetics are abnormal, making control of heparinization difficult during hemodialysis of these patients who are at risk of bleeding. In this study, we have performed a controlled, randomized trial of antithrombin III supplementation on heparin activity, occurrence of bleeding and the platelet count and activation during hemodialysis in 24 patients with fulminant hepatic failure. The treated group of 12 patients was given 3,000 units of antithrombin III before hemodialysis. Antithrombin III supplementation was shown to normalize antithrombin III levels during hemodialysis (prelevels: 0.22 +/- 0.03 U/ml S.E.; at 1 hr 0.99 +/- 0.06 U/ml; p less than 0.001; control prelevels: 0.24 +/- 0.03 U/ml; at 1 hr 0.23 +/- 0.04 U/ml). Total heparin usage was significantly decreased by antithrombin III supplementation (median 5,200 U; range = 2,000 to 13,000) as compared with the control group (median 10,200 U; range = 5,000 to 16,500; p less than 0.005). Blood heparin level (antifactor Xa activity) after the initial bolus was significantly greater in the antithrombin III-supplemented subjects (0.40 +/- 0.07 U/ml compared with 0.22 +/- 0.05 U/ml in the control group; p less than 0.05). The significant reduction in platelet count observed in the control patients (18% +/- 6% at 1 hr; p less than 0.05) did not occur in antithrombin III patients (6% +/- 4% at 1 hr), which was reflected by a lower release of the platelet-specific protein beta-thromboglobulin. Two of 12 patients in both groups showed minor bleeding around vascular access sites during the first hemodialysis. 
Prevalence and malignant potential of colorectal polyps in asymptomatic, average-risk men. Screening colonoscopy was performed on 119 asymptomatic elderly men with no other risk factors for colonic neoplasms. Ninety adenomas were detected in 49 (41%) subjects. Mean adenoma size was 6.5 mm, with 83 (92%) less than or equal to 10 mm. Forty-nine (54%) adenomas were located proximal to the splenic flexure, and 17 (19%) were classified as tubulovillous or villous. Moderate- to high-grade dysplasia was found in 29 (32%) adenomas and was associated with larger size (p less than 0.0001) and villous architecture (p = 0.0038). Two subjects harbored adenomas with invasive cancer. Seventy-one hyperplastic polyps were found in 40 (34%) subjects. The mean size of hyperplastic polyps was 3.4 mm, and 64 (90%) were located in the left colon. We conclude that, in this population, adenomas are common lesions that are frequently small. However, substantial proportions of these adenomas may be at risk for malignant degeneration due to the presence of villous architecture and higher grades of dysplasia. Because adenomas and hyperplastic polyps are endoscopically indistinguishable, all polyps found at endoscopy should be removed or ablated. 
Conditions not attributable to a mental disorder: an epidemiological study of family problems. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this research was to identify and measure the differences among three groups of psychiatric outpatients: those with family problems but without mental disorders, those with both family problems and mental disorders, and those with a mental disorder but without family problems. DSM-III V code conditions (conditions not attributable to a mental disorder) other than family problems do occur, but family problems were chosen because of their importance. METHOD: All patients admitted to an outpatient psychiatric clinic during a 2-year period were studied (N = 382). Of these, 92 had V code conditions unrelated to family problems and were excluded. Data are presented on the remaining 290 patients. Sociodemographic variables, DSM-III diagnoses, source of referral, previous and subsequent use of outpatient services, and type of family problem were examined. Patients were from a low-income population and came from three ethnic groups (white, black, and Hispanic). RESULTS: Among whites, more men than women had family problems without mental disorders; among blacks, more women than men had family problems with and without mental disorders. Marital problems occurred most frequently in the group with family problems without mental disorders, and married subjects were more likely to have a V code condition. Professional referrals were more common than other referral sources in all three groups. However, family problems without mental disorders were more likely to occur among those who were referred by their families and had never had psychiatric treatment; patients with family problems and mental disorders were more likely to be self-referred and to have been previously treated; those with a mental disorder but without family problems were usually referred by professionals and almost always had been previously treated. There appeared to be underreporting of family problems among those with family problems and mental disorders and among black men with family problems with and without mental disorders. CONCLUSIONS: More research is needed on the patterns of use of outpatient psychiatric services by individuals with family problems and other V code conditions. 
Ultrasonographic findings in thalamus and basal ganglia in term asphyxiated infants. Three severely asphyxiated term neonates demonstrated bilateral hyperechogenicity in the thalamus and basal ganglia. During evolution, areas of attenuated echogenicity appeared in these structures at the same time as periventricular cysts were evident in 2 patients with coexistent periventricular leukomalacia. All 3 patients developed ventricular dilatation; in the 2 patients with periventricular leukomalacia, the ventricular border was irregular in the outer (dorsal) margin, and interhemispheric fissures were widened as a manifestation of cerebral atrophy. Furthermore, the thalamic inner (ventral) margins of the lateral ventricles were irregular in all 3 patients. This previously unrecognized finding points to a particular form of cerebral atrophy localized in the gangliothalamic region that contributes to the development of ventriculomegaly. The reported sonographic sequence implies profound damage in the thalamus and basal ganglia in asphyxiated infants which undoubtedly has contributed to the poor outcomes of our patients. 
Diastolic disease in left ventricular hypertrophy: comparison of M mode and Doppler echocardiography for the assessment of rapid ventricular filling. OBJECTIVE--To investigate possible discrepancies between M mode and Doppler echocardiography in assessing early diastolic filling. DESIGN--Forty seven patients with left ventricular hypertrophy due to aortic stenosis and 26 healthy controls with a similar age range were studied by M mode, Doppler, apexcardiography, and phonocardiography. The patients also underwent cardiac catheterisation. M mode echograms were digitised by a computer. Early diastolic filling in both groups as assessed by the two techniques was compared. SETTING--A tertiary cardiac referral centre with facilities for non-invasive and invasive investigations. SUBJECTS--Patients referred for assessment of aortic stenosis who had left ventricular hypertrophy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Filling velocities on Doppler and rates of wall thinning and dimension increase on M mode. RESULTS--Digitised M mode indices of diastolic filling (peak wall thinning rate 6.4 (3.0) v 10.0 (3.0) cm/s and peak rate of dimension increase 9.3 (3.3) v 16 (4.5) cm/s) in the patients and controls were consistently different. In contrast, the Doppler A/E ratio and peak E wave velocity were not; they varied widely among patients with left ventricular hypertrophy. In part, this variability was because the Doppler A/E ratio, but not the digitised M mode indices, was very sensitive to the abnormalities of isovolumic relaxation frequently present in left ventricular hypertrophy. The Doppler A/E ratio varied similarly with age in both normal and hypertrophied hearts; in the patients with ventricular hypertrophy the peak rate of dimension increase depended on age only, whereas the thinning rate was independent of age in both the patients and controls. Neither the A/E ratio nor the M mode indices could be related to the left ventricular end diastolic pressure or the peak aortic pressure difference. CONCLUSIONS--When Doppler and M mode techniques are used to assess rapid filling in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy the M mode indices are more consistently abnormal. The two methods measure different aspects of left ventricular diastolic function and should be regarded as complementary rather than interchangeable. 
The feeding pharyngostomy: an alternative approach to enteral feeding. We present a six-year retrospective review of feeding pharyngostomies as performed in this department. The indications, technique and complications of this procedure are discussed. 
Plasma profiles of adrenocorticotropic hormone, cortisol, growth hormone and prolactin in patients with untreated Parkinson's disease. Plasma profiles of prolactin, growth hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol were evaluated in a group of untreated patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and a group of healthy age-matched controls. Plasma integrated concentrations of all hormones except prolactin were significantly lower in the patients as compared with the controls; however, prolactin nocturnal peak concentration was significantly elevated in the patients; nocturnal growth hormone levels were significantly reduced in the Parkinson group; ACTH and cortisol plasma concentrations were also consistently lower during most of the day in the patients with Parkinson's disease. These data confirm the presence of a hypothalamic disturbance in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease, which can affect pituitary function. 
Plasma concentrations of bupivacaine following combined sciatic and femoral 3 in 1 nerve blocks in open knee surgery. We administered combined femoral 3 in 1 and sciatic nerve blocks to provide postoperative pain relief in 22 consecutive patients undergoing elective knee replacement surgery under spinal anaesthesia. The patients were allocated randomly to two groups. In group A (n = 11) the blocks were performed with 0.5% bupivacaine (with adrenaline) 3 mg/kg body weight and in group B (n = 11) 0.5% plain bupivacaine in the same dose was used. Serial plasma concentrations of bupivacaine were measured for up to 2 h and the duration of postoperative analgesia was measured in both groups. No significant differences were found between the two groups. There were no clinical signs or symptoms of bupivacaine toxicity in each group. This study demonstrated that, after combined sciatic and 3 in 1 femoral block, concentrations of bupivacaine associated with toxicity were not reached, even though the dose of bupivacaine administered exceeded the manufacturer's recommended dose by 50%. 
Immunoglobulin response to intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE--To devise assays to assess and follow the specific antibody response in patients treated with streptokinase for acute myocardial infarction. DESIGN--Venous blood samples were collected before treatment with streptokinase started and subsequently at regular intervals over one year. Specific IgG and subclass IgG1 were assessed by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. SETTING--Coronary care unit in a general hospital. PATIENTS--48 patients with acute myocardial infarction: 22 patients had venous blood samples taken at presentation only; serial blood samples were taken from 20 patients who then received thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase and six patients who were unsuitable for thrombolytic therapy. RESULTS--Titres of antibodies to streptokinase were low at presentation in 36 (75%) of the 48 patients. Serial measurements made in 20 patients showed the virtual disappearance of antibody within the first 24 hours. This was followed by a steady increase in the specific IgG1 titre, which peaked at day 14 before gradually declining. Values at one year remained significantly higher than baseline values. There was no evidence of an IgM response in the patients studied. CONCLUSION--Low titres of antibodies to streptokinase were widespread in the population. Antibody was consumed after treatment and the subsequent immunoglobulin rise suggested a secondary immune responses; the recently described neutralising capacity to streptokinase is probably related to this antibody. 
Mesonephric rest hyperplasia. A potential diagnostic pitfall. A case of mesonephric rest hyperplasia, an incidental finding in the hysterectomy specimen of a 48-year-old woman, was initially misdiagnosed as a well-differentiated cervical adenocarcinoma. We highlight the histologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical features of this potential diagnostic pitfall and review the relevant literature. 
Shoulder disorders in the elderly: a community survey. A community survey of identifiable symptomatic shoulder disorders in a sample of 644 elderly people over age 70 (318 male and 326 female) revealed a prevalence of 21%. Shoulder disorders were more common in women (25%, versus 17% in men). Approximately 70% of the cases of shoulder pain involved the rotator cuff. Fewer than 40% of the subjects sought medical attention for these symptoms. Increased medical awareness is needed, since the elderly often do not volunteer information about such symptoms. 
Follow-up bronchoalveolar lavage in AIDS patients with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Pneumocystis carinii burden predicts early relapse. We performed an analysis of the value of repeat bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) at 21 days to identify patients at risk for early relapse with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Patients with P. carinii pneumonia and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were asked to participate in this study. All patients had P. carinii identified on methenamine silver stain of BAL fluid. BAL fluid was also stained with a modified Wright-Giemsa technique. The Wright-Giemsa stain was done to determine the cell differential count, and the number of P. carinii clusters associated with 500 nucleated cells was used as an estimate of P. carinii burden in the BAL. Initial and follow-up lavage was performed in 56 patients. Patients were classified based on their clinical response to anti-P. carinii therapy at 21 days. Nonresponders were patients with persistent or worsening symptoms. Responders were patients who improved and had therapy discontinued. Responders were further classified as responders with relapse if P. carinii pneumonia recurred within 6 months of the initial episode or responders without relapse if they remained disease free during the follow-up period. Responders without relapse reduced P. carinii cluster counts more than 50% in 24 of 25 cases. In responders with relapse P. carinii cluster counts were unchanged. The responders as a group had a significant decrease in the percentage of neutrophils in the BAL, with only 2 of 32 still having increased neutrophils in the follow-up lavage compared to 17 of 24 nonresponders (p less than 0.0001). 
Antral choanal polyp presenting as obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) in children is commonly caused by adenotonsillar hypertrophy. The diagnostic criteria of OSAS in children are not so well delineated as in adults. We report the first case of antral choanal polyp presenting as OSAS in a 10-year-old boy that initially presented to the child psychiatry service for behavior disturbance, enuresis, and daytime somnolence. Overnight electroencephalogram sleep study revealed events consistent with OSAS. Multiple inhalant allergies, chronic maxillary sinusitis, and obstructive adenoid hypertrophy were diagnosed by the allergy and otolaryngology services. The child was scheduled for adenoidectomy when his sleep apnea symptoms persisted following antimicrobial therapy. Examination under anesthesia revealed a normal adenoid bed and a large left antral choanal polyp. Polypectomy was performed as dictated by parental consent. Postoperatively treatment with an intranasal steroid was begun. However, polypoid nasal mucosa recurred in 2 months and a Caldwell-Luc procedure was performed. Subjective reports following surgery indicated improvement in daytime irritability, attention, and mood. A follow-up overnight electroencephalogram sleep study confirmed resolution of OSAS. 
Acquisition of protease resistance by prion proteins in scrapie-infected cells does not require asparagine-linked glycosylation. The scrapie and cellular isoforms of the prion protein (PrPSc and PrPC) differ strikingly in a number of their biochemical and metabolic properties. The structural features underlying these differences are unknown, but they are thought to result from a posttranslational process. Both PrP isoforms contain complex type oligosaccharides, raising the possibility that differences in the asparagine-linked glycosylation account for the properties that distinguish PrPC and PrPSc. ScN2a and ScHaB cells in culture produce several PrP molecules with relative molecular masses of 26-35 kDa and proteinase K-resistant cores of 19-29 kDa. When the cells were treated with tunicamycin, this heterogeneity was eliminated and a single PrP species of 26 kDa was observed. Several hours after its synthesis, a fraction of this protein became insoluble in detergents and acquired a proteinase K-resistant core, thus displaying two of the biochemical hallmarks of PrPSc. Synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin restricted the proteinase K-resistant cores of PrP to a single species of 19 kDa. No proteinase K-resistant PrP was found in uninfected cells. Expression of a mutated PrP gene lacking both asparagine-linked glycosylation sites in ScN2a cells resulted in the synthesis of 19-kDa proteinase K-resistant PrP molecules. We conclude that asparagine-linked glycosylation is not essential for the synthesis of proteinase K-resistant PrP and that structural differences unrelated to asparagine-linked oligosaccharides must exist between PrPC and PrPSc. Whether unglycosylated PrPSc molecules are associated with scrapie prion infectivity remains to be established. 
Sensitive detection of clonal antigen receptor gene rearrangements for the diagnosis and monitoring of lymphoid neoplasms by a polymerase chain reaction-mediated ribonuclease protection assay. This report describes a novel assay involving the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and RNase protection for the rapid and sensitive detection of malignant lymphoid cells by nucleotide sequences within their individual rearranged gamma T-cell receptor (TCRG) genes. In this assay, clonal rearrangements are amplified from the DNA of diagnostic tumor specimens using a consensus V segment primer and a consensus J segment primer to which the promoter for T7 RNA polymerase has been appended. The PCR product from this amplification is transcribed into a radiolabeled RNA probe. Test RNA transcribed from the opposite DNA strand is synthesized by similar methods from TCRG genes of a subsequent biopsy specimen. The test RNA is hybridized with the probe, and mismatched nucleotide sequences in the RNA hybrids are digested by RNase A. Detection of fully protected probe by means of polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography indicates the presence of malignant cells in the test specimen. Dilution experiments with DNA of cell lines from acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs) show that detection of one tumor cell among 10(5) normal bone marrow cells is usually possible. Residual disease was also successfully detected in several cases of ALL during clinical remission, including detection in one case at the 10(-5) level. The procedure described here may provide a simplified and rapid method for the sensitive diagnosis and monitoring of lymphoid malignancies. This procedure should be applicable to most antigen receptor genes, and unlike most comparable methods, requires neither analysis of nucleotide sequence nor synthesis of tumor-specific oligonucleotide probes or primers. 
Red cell membrane sodium transport: possible genetic role and use in identifying patients at risk of essential hypertension. To investigate the influence of a family history of essential hypertension on abnormalities of red cell membrane sodium transport, 28 hypertensive children and their families were studied. In 15 families one or both parents had either essential hypertension or a strong family history. In 13 families neither parent had essential hypertension or a positive family history. There were significant differences between the children with a positive family history of essential hypertension compared with those without. Values are expressed as mean (SD): intracellular sodium concentration (mmol/l cells) 8.19 (2.18) compared with 6.41 (0.98); sodium efflux rate constant 0.4873 (0.1379) compared with 0.5831 (0.1104); and numbers of sodium-potassium ATPase pump sites (BMax) (nmol/l cells) 7.96 (1.71) compared with 9.56 (1.7). Significant differences were also found when the index hypertensive children were excluded and the normotensive siblings with and without hypertensive family histories were compared. These data suggest that abnormal red cell membrane sodium transport has a familial component, and although it is not caused by the hypertension it may be the earliest pathophysiological step in its development, perhaps allowing the identification of children at risk of essential hypertension. 
Nerve growth factor receptor expression in peripheral and central neuroectodermal tumors, other pediatric brain tumors, and during development of the adrenal gland. Nerve growth factor (NGF) is important to the survival, development, and differentiation of neurons. Its action is mediated by a specific cell surface transmembrane glycoprotein, nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR). In this study, NGFR expression by human fetal and adult adrenal medullary tissue, peripheral nervous system (PNS) neuroectodermal tumors (neuroblastoma, ganglioneuroblastoma, ganglioneuroma), pediatric primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) of the central nervous system (CNS), and CNS gliomas was examined by an immunohistochemical technique. Sixty-nine tumors in total were probed in this manner. Nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity was confined to nerve fibers and clusters of primitive-appearing cells in the fetal adrenal, and to nerve fibers and ganglion cells of the adult adrenal medulla; adrenal chromaffin cells were negative. In PNS neuroectodermal tumors, there was NGFR expression in tumor cells of 6 of 11 neuroblastomas and 6 of 6 ganglioneuroblastomas or ganglioneuromas. Thirteen of thirty-five CNS PNETs showed NGFR positivity. In most CNS PNETs, NGFR was restricted to scattered single or small groups of cells, but two tumors with astroglial differentiation showed much more extensive immunoreactivity. Most astrocytomas (11 of 14) and all ependymomas (3 of 3) were intensely NGFR positive. 
Childhood cancers--New Jersey, 1979-1985. In New Jersey, cancers among children aged 0-14 years account for fewer than 1% of all cancers diagnosed annually; however, childhood cancers account for the greatest number of years of potential life lost from cancer. This report summarizes a study by the New Jersey State Department of Health (NJSDH) that determined the incidence and death rates for the most frequent cancers among children aged 0-14 years in New Jersey during 1979-1985; these rates are compared with those for the United States for a comparable period. 
Risk factors for benign oesophageal disease in a random population sample. The association of sex, age, relative weight, smoking and drinking habits, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and economic and marital status, with benign oesophageal disease (BOD) was investigated by means of a point-prevalence study of BOD in a Danish population. A total of 346 individuals, representing subjects who gave positive responses to the discriminating questions pertaining to BOD and risk factors in a previously described questionnaire, as well as control subjects, were invited to participate in a clinical examination. Invasive investigation was accepted by 175 subjects, 114 of whom were diagnosed as having BOD. A statistically significant relationship between BOD and COPD was demonstrated by univariate analysis, and later confirmed by multivariate analysis (P less than 0.01). Odds ratios suggested a non-significant association between BOD and smoking at least 20 g tobacco a day and consuming greater than or equal to 50 alcoholic drinks per week. Obesity, sex, age, marital and economic status were not risk factors for BOD. 
The clinical course of perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage We studied the early clinical course of 65 patients with perimesencephalic (nonaneurysmal) subarachnoid hemorrhage. None of the patients rebled; none had delayed cerebral ischemia; and only 3 patients (5%) developed clinical signs of acute hydrocephalus, 2 requiring ventricular shunting. Hyponatremia and electrocardiographic changes were found in the same proportions as in patients with aneurysmal rupture. All patients had a good outcome after 3 months. To control for the influence of the relatively small amount of cisternal blood in perimesencephalic hemorrhage on the absence of delayed cerebral ischemia, we compared these 65 patients with 49 patients who had aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. This control group with aneurysms was selected according to a similar amount of cisternal blood, a comparable level of consciousness on admission, and absence of other factors known to increase the risk for delayed cerebral ischemia. We found that 4 of the 49 patients with aneurysmal hemorrhage developed delayed cerebral ischemia (Fisher's exact test, p = 0.03); therefore the relatively small amount of blood does not account for the absence of delayed cerebral ischemia in perimesencephalic hemorrhage. Patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage and a normal angiogram should be considered to have a distinct subset of subarachnoid hemorrhage and should be excluded from future treatment trials of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Allografts of tumor nuclear transplantation embryos: differentiation competence. The developmental potential of nuclei can be studied by nuclear transplantation. Although amphibian blastula nuclei and other early embryonic nuclei are totipotent, to our knowledge no nucleus from an adult cell has ever been shown to be totipotent by this procedure. Transfer of Lucke renal carcinoma nuclei into enucleated eggs results in prefeeding swimming tadpoles. Inasmuch as these tadpoles die, rescue of this pluripotential tissue was attempted by grafting fragments of triploid tumor nuclear transplant tadpoles to the tails of normal diploid Rana pipiens hosts. Grafts of tumor nuclear transplant tadpole tissue were histologically indistinguishable from grafts of normally fertilized embryos and developed normal-appearing structures such as complete eyes, well-differentiated neural tissues, kidney tubules, and gut epithelium. Moreover, histological differentiation in tumor nuclear transplant grafts was comparable to that observed in 50-day-old normal larvae. Grafting enhanced the survival of tumor nuclear transplant tissue from no more than 14 days as part of the donor tadpole to 40 days at which time the grafts were harvested as healthy tissue. Thus, both differentiation and survival of tumor nuclear transplant tissue were augmented with the grafting procedure. Cytophotometric analysis of ploidy was used to confirm the tumor origin of the donor tissue. 
Selective pulmonary vasodilation by low-dose infusion of adenosine triphosphate in newborn lambs. The systemic and pulmonary vascular effects of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) were investigated in 12 newborn lambs during normoxia and during alveolar hypoxia (10% oxygen, 5% carbon dioxide, and 85% nitrogen). Lambs had catheters in the descending aorta, main pulmonary artery, and were studied after a 3-day recovery. We infused ATP or an equal volume of saline solution (control) into the right atrial line in doses ranging from 0.01 to 2.5 mumol/kg per minute. In normoxic lambs, ATP caused a significant decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance in doses of 0.08 to 2.5 mumol/kg per minute, and in systemic vascular resistance in doses of 0.3 to 2.5 mumol/kg per minute. Infusion of ATP in hypoxic lambs caused decreases in pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance in all the doses tested. Systemic vascular resistance decreased, and cardiac output and heart rate increased in doses greater than 0.3 mumol/kg per minute in hypoxic lambs during ATP infusion. The effects of ATP in hypoxic lambs were not blocked by propranolol, indomethacin, or theophylline. Plasma ATP levels in left atrial blood samples did not change significantly during the infusion of ATP. We conclude that ATP is a vasodilator in lambs, and its effects are specific for pulmonary circulation at doses of less than or equal to 0.15 mumol/kg per minute. The vasodilator effects of ATP appear to be independent of P1 purinergic and beta-adrenergic mechanisms, and of prostacyclin synthesis. 
The use of intravenous milrinone in chronic symptomatic ischemic heart disease. To evaluate the antiischemic effects of intravenous milrinone, 20 patients with angiographically proved coronary artery disease and stable angina were studied at rest and during exercise under control conditions and after an intravenous loading injection of milrinone (50 micrograms/kg/10 min) followed by an infusion with 0.5 micrograms/kg/min. Hemodynamic parameters, epinephrine, norepinephrine, and atrial natriuretic factor were assessed. Control ergometry revealed ischemia; however, during exercise with intravenous milrinone, ischemia was eliminated. Because of unloading effects, there was also a significant decrease in ST segment depression (p less than 0.001). Heart rate increased significantly (p less than 0.001) at rest but increased significantly less after exercise testing (p less than 0.001). The changes in mean arterial pressure, cardiac output, and myocardial oxygen consumption during exercise were not significantly different between the milrinone and control phase. Intravenous milrinone delayed the onset of angina (p less than 0.001) and significantly shortened the duration of anginal attacks (p less than 0.05); exercise duration in the milrinone phase was longer than in the control phase (p = 0.051). Because of vasodilatation, a mild secondary increase in norepinephrine was observed during the milrinone phase, and there was a significantly smaller increase in atrial natriuretic factor during exercise while receiving milrinone as a result of preload reduction (p less than 0.05). Intravenous milrinone produced beneficial hemodynamic and antiischemic effects in patients with coronary artery disease, stable angina, and reproducible ST segment depression probably by enhancing myocardial contractility and reducing preload and afterload. 
Carcinoma of the rectum: a 10-year experience. A consecutive series of 303 patients with carcinoma of the rectum and distal sigmoid colon treated by a single surgeon over a 10-year period are reported. Of these, 202 underwent an anterior resection, 85 an abdominoperineal excision of the rectum and 16 a coloanal anastomosis. Surgery was considered palliative in 52 patients undergoing anterior resection and 24 undergoing abdominoperineal resection. The 30-day hospital mortality rate was six patients (3 per cent) for anterior resection and two patients (2 per cent) for abdominoperineal resection. Peroperative anastomotic testing demonstrated leakage in five stapled anastomoses; these were rectified and no clinical sequelae occurred. Two patients (1 per cent) developed a clinical anastomotic leak, one of which proved fatal; in each case the intraoperative test was negative. The overall 5-year survival rate was 64 per cent after anterior resection and 52 per cent after abdominoperineal resection; the median follow-up was 64 months. The incidence of local pelvic recurrence was 6.4 per cent after anterior resection and 14 per cent after abdominoperineal (not significant). These results confirm the success of sphincter-saving anterior resection combined with total mesorectal excision, routine full mobilization of the splenic flexure and cancercidal lavage of the distal rectum in the treatment of low rectal carcinomas; morbidity, local recurrence and survival are not compromised. 
Pontine myelinolysis after correction of hyponatremia during burn resuscitation. Central pontine myelinolysis is a neurologic disease produced by the rapid correction of hyponatremia. This report describes the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis in a patient with burns. The natural history of this paralyzing condition and suggestions for its prevention are discussed. Severely burned and hyponatremic patients are at risk for this disorder because a large amount of sodium ion is typically required for the treatment of burn shock. Awareness of this phenomenon and avoidance of rapid correction of hyponatremia are essential to its prevention. 
Aortoesophageal fistula: a comprehensive review of the literature. Aortoesophageal fistula (AEF) is a relatively rare but life-threatening cause of upper gastro-intestinal bleeding. The clinical characteristics of AEF are so unique that a presumptive bedside diagnosis can be made at the time of presentation. In the past decade, surgical management has improved to the point that cure is now possible. For these reasons, we have reviewed the literature. We summarize our findings with respect to the etiology and clinical characteristics of AEF. Further, we discuss the diagnostic modalities that may be used to confirm the diagnosis, and the therapeutic modalities available to slow the hemorrhage, so as to allow time to correct the anatomic defect. 
Antihypertensive drug treatment. Potential, expected, and observed effects on stroke and on coronary heart disease. The effects of prolonged differences in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) on the risks of stroke and of coronary heart disease (CHD) were estimated from nine major prospective observational studies involving about 420,000 men and women who were followed up for intervals of 6-25 years. The results indicate that a prolonged difference of about 6 mm Hg in DBP was associated with approximately 37% fewer strokes and 23% fewer CHD deaths and nonfatal myocardial infarctions. The effects of equivalent reductions in DBP produced by antihypertensive drug treatment but maintained for only a few years have been estimated in several overviews of randomized trials involving a total of 30,000-40,000 patients. The results of the overviews indicate that treatment reduced the risk of stroke by about 40%, suggesting that most or all the long-term potential benefits for stroke due to lower DBP were achieved within about 3 years of beginning treatment. The risks of nonfatal myocardial infarction and CHD death may have been reduced by about 10% among patients allocated to active treatment; the 95% confidence limits for the difference ranged from about zero to about 20%. Whatever the true effect of treatment on CHD, it would appear somewhat less than the difference in risk estimated from the observational studies for a prolonged difference in DBP of the same size. This apparent shortfall in benefit may reflect a long time-course for changes in DBP to have their full effects on CHD, possible adverse side effects of the principal trial treatments, or both. 
Cardiac rupture secondary to blunt trauma: a rapidly diagnosable entity with two-dimensional echocardiography. A 58-year-old woman involved in a single automobile accident sustained an isolated rupture of the right ventricle without any other obvious form of external trauma. On presentation to an outlying hospital, hypotension was the only apparent clinical finding suggestive of injury. After several hours of delay, the patient was transferred to a tertiary medical center. The diagnosis of cardiac rupture was made by two-dimensional echocardiography. The patient underwent successful surgical repair and was discharged home in good condition eight days after sustaining this potentially fatal injury. 
Nonprescription drugs and hypertension. Which ones affect blood pressure? Hypertensive patients should be aware of the possible effects of nonprescription medications on blood pressure control. For absolute safety, no adrenergic agents should be used. Nasal phenylephrine hydrochloride is probably the safest of these agents, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride may also be safe. Phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride and ephedrine sulfate are probably best avoided. The effects of other adrenergic agents (eg, epinephrine) on blood pressure have not been clinically evaluated. Ibuprofen may elevate blood pressure if taken in maximum over-the-counter doses for more than a few days. The ethanol and sodium chloride content of nonprescription drugs taken in recommended doses does not appear to pose a great hazard. 
Fire hydrant play: injuries and their prevention. A total of 86 children treated for injuries that occurred while playing in water from fire hydrants are described. Patients were urban (100%), minority (97%) children with few alternative means for keeping cool. Injuries occurred on extremely hot summer days (mean maximum temperature 36.3 degrees C [97.5 degrees F]). Laceration of the foot on broken glass was the most common injury and was prevented by wearing footwear (P less than .001). Motor vehicles caused all serious injuries. Sprinkler attachments on the hydrants were associated with significantly fewer motor vehicle-related injuries (P less than .001) and water pressure-related injuries (P = .02). Adults were present at more than 90% of injury scenes, but had no effect on the safety of fire hydrant play. Public policy should be directed toward increasing the availability of alternative means for keeping cool, increasing the number of hydrants equipped with sprinklers, and reducing the amount of broken glass in the streets. Public education targeting adults to remove glass from the street, insist that children wear footwear, and open only those hydrants that have sprinklers could further reduce injuries to urban children who play in water from fire hydrants. 
Improved tumor imaging with radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies by plasma clearance of unbound antibody with anti-antibody column. Imaging of tumors by using radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies (MoAs) is hindered by the presence of background activity. To reduce this problem, the authors investigated the process of removing labeled MoAs from plasma at selected times by means of extracorporeal immunoadsorption. In seven patients with either lung or breast carcinoma, an indium-111-labeled murine antibody was intravenously administered. Six to 24 hours later, immunoadsorption was performed by passing the patients' plasma through a goat anti-mouse antibody column connected to a plasma separator. Whole-body computer images were obtained before and after the treatment. Blood pool activity in the images was reduced by an average of 59%, while tumor activity dropped by only 10%. Tumor-to-blood activity ratios therefore more than doubled, improving by an average of 121% between the pre- and posttreatment image sets. Eight of 12 areas of known disease and three areas of unknown but later documented disease were detected after the immunoadsorption process, while the three areas of unknown disease and three of the areas of known disease were not detected in the preclearance images. Thus, the feasibility of using extracorporeal immunoadsorption to improve MoA imaging of tumors was demonstrated. 
Electrophysiologic recording and thermodynamic modeling demonstrate that helium-neon laser irradiation does not affect peripheral Adelta- or C-fiber nociceptors. The effect of helium-neon laser irradiation (632.5 nm) on A delta- and C-fiber sensory afferents was investigated in the rabbit cornea, to determine the physiologic basis for reports that low power (0.1-5 mW) helium-neon (He-Ne) lasers produce acute analgesia and alleviate chronic pain. Multiple and single unit extracellular recordings from nociceptive corneal afferent nerves (C-fiber cold, C-fiber chemical, A delta mechanical and A delta bimodal) were used to study the effects of He-Ne laser radiation upon the electrophysiologic responses to mechanical, thermal, chemical and electrical stimulation of the cornea. Action potentials were analyzed for latency, amplitude, rise time, duration and frequency. Exposure of the neural receptive field and/or nerve bundle to a 4-mm diameter He-Ne laser (0-5 mW; 0-1800 sec) did not alter spontaneous or evoked neural activity. In addition, single unit action potential parameters were not altered by laser irradiation. Modeling of thermal changes produced by He-Ne radiation on corneal nerves indicated that effects predicted for receptor and axonal depths in both skin and cornea were minimal (less than 0.15 degrees C) and unlikely to alter sensory transduction or transmission. 
Submucous resection of the nasal septum as an outpatient procedure. We report our experience of submucous resection of the nasal septum under local anaesthesia as an outpatient procedure. We have audited 50 consecutive cases and compared the results with a similar group of patients in whom the operation was carried out in the usual way under general anaesthesia. We have found the procedure to be safe, effective and economically advantageous. 
Newborn behavioral performance in colic and noncolic infants. The specific purpose of this investigation was to examine the newborn performance of colic and noncolic infants on the Brazelton Neonatal Behavior Assessment Scale (BNBAS). The sample was composed of 119 firstborn infants from healthy, married, white couples. Data were collected prenatally, during the perinatal period, and postnatally from birth through four months of infant age. A total of 38 infants (32%) were believed to have colic. Colicky infants differed significantly from noncolicky infants on one of the seven item clusters, labeled the BNBAS Orientation cluster (p less than .05). 
Histological changes in free jejunal grafts used in pharyngeal reconstruction. A histological study was performed of biopsies taken from jejunal free grafts used in pharyngeal reconstruction. The main findings were a decreased crypt/villi ratio and a mild chronic inflammatory infiltrate. There was no evidence of metaplastic or dysplastic transformation. 
Very late recurrence of renal vasculitis. We report a case of renal vasculitis with a relapse occurring 9 and a half years after the original presentation. The plasma creatinine six months before relapse was only 118 mumol/l. During the initial illness there was histological evidence of glomerular damage but at the time of relapse renal biopsy showed the remaining glomeruli to be normal with the destructive process causing fibrinoid necrosis of arteries. 
Cardiovascular collapse following orthoclone OKT3 administration: a case report. Orthoclone OKT3 has been described to have significant adverse effects on the cardiovascular system, including pulmonary edema, angina, dysrhythmias, hypertension, and hypotension, usually following the first or second doses of the drug. We describe a case of cardiopulmonary arrest in a patient 1 minute after the initial injection of OKT3. Two subsequent doses were successfully administered with the guidance of hemodynamic monitoring, which showed profound, immediate effects of OKT3 on the cardiovascular system. Potential mechanisms of these effects are discussed. 
Small bowel obstruction after colon resection for benign and malignant diseases. To determine the etiology and outcome of patients with small bowel obstruction after a colon resection for benign and malignant diseases, the medical records of 118 patients who underwent 120 laparotomies for small bowel obstruction were reviewed. Contrary to previous reports, benign adhesions were responsible for the obstruction in all patients with a history of benign colon disease, 82.6 percent of patients with a history of adenocarcinoma of the colon without known recurrence, and 30.1 percent of patients with known recurrent malignancy. The morbidity and mortality was more related to the etiology of the obstruction rather than the preoperative delay or operative procedure performed. Considering the high likelihood of adhesive obstruction in patients with a history of, or known, metastatic colorectal carcinoma, it is suggested that these not deter surgeons from aggressive early surgical intervention in these patients who develop small bowel obstruction. 
Cytochrome c oxidase deficiency with acute onset and rapid recovery. A 7-year-old girl with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency who had no neurologic deficits in infancy suddenly developed ophthalmoplegia, ptosis, and respiratory arrest. She recovered almost completely 80 days after onset, suggesting that acute onset and rapid remission are observed in patients with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. It is also possible that early initiation of therapy in cytochrome c oxidase deficiency with coenzyme Q10 may hasten and enhance the therapeutic effect. 
Treatment of fulminant viral hepatic failure with prostaglandin E. A preliminary report. The effect of prostaglandins (PG) in patients with fulminant and subfulminant viral hepatitis was studied. Seventeen patients presented with FHF secondary to hepatitis A (N = 3), hepatitis B (N = 6) and non-A, non-B (NANB) hepatitis (N = 8). Fourteen of the 17 patients had stage III or IV hepatic encephalopathy (HE). At presentation, the mean AST was 1844 +/- 1246 units/liter, bilirubin 232 +/- 135 mumol/liter, PT 34 +/- 18 and PTT 73 +/- 26 sec, and coagulation factors V and VII were 8 +/- 4 and 9 +/- 51%, respectively. Twelve of 17 patients responded to PGE1 rapidly, with a decrease in AST from 1540 +/- 833 to 188 +/- 324 units/liter, a decrease in prothrombin time from 27 +/- 7 sec to 12 +/- 1 sec, PTT from 61 +/- 10 sec to 31 +/- 2 sec, and an increase in factor V from 9 +/- 4% to 69 +/- 18% and factor VII from 11 +/- 5% to 71 +/- 20%. Five responders with NANB hepatitis relapsed upon discontinuation of therapy, with recurrence of HE and increases in AST and PT but improvement was observed upon retreatment. After four weeks of intravenous therapy, oral PGE2 was substituted. Two patients have recovered completely and remain in remission six and 12 months following cessation of therapy. Two additional patients continue in remission after two and six months of PGE2. No relapses have been seen in patients with hepatitis A virus (HAV) or hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Liver biopsies in the 12 surviving patients have returned to normal. These results suggest efficacy of PGE for FHF. Further investigation is warranted. 
Complete atrioventricular block complicating inferior wall acute myocardial infarction treated with reperfusion therapy. TAMI Study Group. Previous studies report larger myocardial infarcts and increased in-hospital mortality rates in patients with inferior wall acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and complete atrioventricular block (AV), but the clinical implications of these complications in patients treated with reperfusion therapy have not been addressed. The clinical course of 373 patients--50 (13%) of whom developed complete AV block--admitted with inferior wall AMI and given thrombolytic therapy within 6 hours of symptom onset was studied. Acute patency rates of the infarct artery after thrombolytic therapy were similar in patients with or without AV block. Ventricular function measured at baseline and before discharge in patients with complete AV block showed a decrement in median ejection fraction (-3.5 vs -0.4%, p = 0.03) and in median regional wall motion (-0.14 vs +0.24 standard deviations/chord, p = 0.05). The reocclusion rate was higher in patients with complete AV block (29 vs 16%, p = 0.03). Patients with complete AV block had more episodes of ventricular fibrillation or tachycardia (36 vs 14%, p less than 0.001), sustained hypotension (36 vs 10%, p less than 0.001), pulmonary edema (12 vs 4%, p = 0.02) and a higher in-hospital mortality rate (20 vs 4%, p less than 0.001), although the mortality rate after hospital discharge was identical (2%) in the 2 groups. Multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed that complete AV block was a strong independent predictor of in-hospital mortality (p = 0.0006). Thus, despite initial successful reperfusion, patients with inferior wall AMI and complete AV block have higher rates of in-hospital complications and mortality. 
Hypothalamic peptides modulate cytosolic free Ca2+ levels and adenylyl cyclase activity in human nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas. The effects of hypothalamic peptides (TRH, GnRH, arginine vasopressin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, GHRH, CRH, and SRIH) on cytosolic free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) and adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity were evaluated in 12 nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas. TRH, GnRH, and arginine vasopressin induced a marked [Ca2+]i rise in 10/12, 4/12, and 2/5 tumors, respectively. The transients induced by these peptides were due to both Ca2+ mobilization from the intracellular stores and Ca2+ influx from the extracellular medium. AC activity was evaluated in 10 adenomas; 1 microM vasoactive intestinal peptide induced a 2- to 6-fold stimulation of the enzyme activity in all tumors, while neither GHRH nor CRH were effective. Moreover, in 5/10 tumors 1 microM SRIH reduced both AC activity and [Ca2+]i, while in 2/10 the peptide caused a significant rise in [Ca2+]i despite the AC inhibition and in 3/10 SRIH did not modify either AC activity or [Ca2+]i. This study indicates that in nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas a wide spectrum of hypothalamic peptides modulate [Ca2+]i and AC activity. Moreover, the presence of biologically active receptors may offer a possible target for therapeutic intervention. 
Effects of interleukin-4 and interleukin-6 on the proliferation of CD34+ and CD34- blasts from acute myelogenous leukemia. We studied the effects of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-6 on the growth of leukemic blasts from 40 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Patients were selected on the basis of negativity for a series of B-cell antigens including CD10 and CD19. Twenty-one cases were CD34-positive (CD34+) (greater than 15% of blasts) and the remaining 19 were CD34-negative (CD34-) (less than 3% of blasts). IL-4 alone (100 U/ml) could stimulate either DNA synthesis (with greater than 2.0 stimulation index) or leukemic blast colony formation in 24 of 40 AML patients. In the presence of other growth factors, IL-4 showed divergent effects on IL-3-, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor-, or erythropoietin-dependent colony formation. These effects of IL-4 were observed in both CD34+ and CD34- AML cases. IL-6 (100 U/mL) alone could not stimulate DNA synthesis and blast colony formation except for one CD34+ case. On the other hand, IL-6 showed synergistic effects on IL-3- and IL-4-dependent blast colony formation in 10 of 12 and 7 of 9 CD34+ AML cases, respectively. Among CD34- AML cases, such synergism was seen only in 1 of 12 cases for IL-3-dependent colony formation and in 3 of 7 cases for IL-4-dependent colony formation. The divergent effect of IL-4 and the synergistic effect of IL-6 were also observed in purified CD34+ leukemic blast populations, indicating that these phenomena are not mediated by accessory cells. The present study suggests that IL-4, alone or in combination with other growth factors, has divergent effects on the growth of AML progenitors irrespective of the CD34 expression, and that IL-6 acts synergistically with IL-3 or IL-4 on the growth of leukemic progenitors preferentially in CD34+ AML. 
Is pulsed Doppler velocimetry useful in the management of multiple-gestation pregnancies? Few studies have addressed the significance of umbilical artery pulsed Doppler velocimetry in multiple gestation. Level II ultrasonography and pulsed Doppler studies were performed in 94 twin pairs and seven sets of triplets, which yielded data on 207 fetuses. A systolic/diastolic ratio was calculated for each fetus; abnormal pulsed Doppler velocimetry showed high correlation with adverse pregnancy events. Those with abnormal Doppler findings tended to be born 3 to 4 weeks earlier and to exhibit a greater number of stillbirths and structural malformations, as well as greater morbidity, when compared with fetuses without abnormal Doppler results. Fifteen of 17 infants with abnormal antenatal waveforms suffered serious morbidity. Seven were small for gestational age, and two were borderline for small for gestational age. An additional five infants with abnormal waveforms were appropriate for gestational age but were either recipient or donor in the twin transfusion syndrome. Eleven fetuses with this syndrome are described. Donor twins tended to be severely small for gestational age, with 7 of the 11 infants showing elevated systolic/diastolic ratios. Amniotic fluid volume tended to be diminished in the donor's sac but normal or increased in the recipient's sac. The observations in the study correlate with suspected physiologic changes of this syndrome. Because present findings suggest that fetuses with abnormal velocimetry suffer increased morbidity and mortality, a more rational method of management that uses Doppler data is suggested for multiple gestations. 
Percutaneous biopsy of left adrenal masses: prevalence of pancreatitis after anterior approach. Acute pancreatitis is an unusual but recognized complication of percutaneous aspiration biopsy of the pancreas. As the pancreatic tail is located anterior to the left adrenal gland, percutaneous biopsy of a left adrenal mass via the anterior approach may result in needle passage through the tail of the pancreas with subsequent potential development of pancreatitis. To evaluate this risk, we retrospectively reviewed 48 CT-directed percutaneous aspiration biopsies of left adrenal masses done between 1984 and 1989 at two institutions. Positioning of the patient, the course of the needle, the number of needle passes, and the size of the needle were analyzed. Thirty-three (69%) of 48 biopsies of a left adrenal mass were performed by using the anterior approach. The pancreas was traversed by one or more needles in 32 of 33 cases. Biopsies were performed with 20- to 22-gauge needles, and the number of needle passes varied widely. The medical records of the 33 patients in whom the anterior approach was used also were reviewed for complications. Acute pancreatitis, which required 11-13 days of hospitalization, developed in two patients (6%). None of the other 31 patients suffered a complication. We conclude that the pancreatic tail is routinely traversed by the biopsy needle when biopsy of a left adrenal mass is done via the anterior approach and that severe acute pancreatitis can occur as a result. 
Variability in physicians' decisions on caring for chronically ill elderly patients: an international study. OBJECTIVES: To determine what treatment decisions physicians will make when faced with an incompetent elderly patient with life-threatening gastrointestinal bleeding and to identify the factors that affect their decisions. DESIGN: Survey. SETTING: Family practice, medical and geriatrics rounds in academic medical centres and community hospitals in seven countries. PARTICIPANTS: Physicians who regularly cared for incompetent elderly patients. OUTCOME MEASURE: A self-administered questionnaire containing three case vignettes. Each provided the same details on an incompetent elderly patient; however, one gave no information about the wishes of the patient and his family (no directive), the second provided a do-not-resuscitate (DNR) request, and the third included a detailed therapeutic and resuscitative effort chart (DTREC) requesting maximum therapeutic care without admission to the intensive care unit (ICU). The four treatment options were supportive care only, limited therapeutic care, maximum therapeutic care without admission to the ICU and maximum care with admission to the ICU. MAIN RESULTS: Treatment decisions varied and were systematically related to age, level of training and country (p less than 0.001). The older physicians and those in family medicine were less likely than the others to choose aggressive treatment options. Brazilian and US physicians were the most aggressive; Australian physicians were the most conservative. The DNR request resulted in a significant decrease in the number of physicians choosing aggressive options (p less than 0.001). The DTREC resulted in a move toward more aggressive treatment, as outlined in the directive (p less than 0.001). Overall, however, about 40% of the physicians chose a level of care different from what had been requested. Furthermore, over 10% would have tried cardiopulmonary resuscitation despite the DNR request. CONCLUSION: Treatment of incompetent elderly patients with life-threatening illness varies widely within and between countries. Uniform standards should be developed on the basis of societal values and be communicated to physicians. 
Intracranial neurenteric cysts. Report of two cases. Two cases of intracranial neurenteric cysts are reported and the literature is reviewed. Neurenteric cysts are rare congenital lesions that tend to occur in the spinal intradural space. An intracranial location is exceptional. 
Proton-pump inhibition for acid-related disease. Omeprazole and lansoprazole are the forerunners of a group of substituted benzimidazole compounds that block the gastric proton pump. These drugs exert a potent antisecretory effect by blocking the final common pathway of acid secretion. Prolonged, potent reduction of acid secretion using omeprazole has resulted in significant therapeutic advantage over existing antisecretory medication, such as H2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Research experience with lansoprazole indicates that it has treatment properties for acid-related disease that are similar to those of omeprazole. Omeprazole has been used successfully in the treatment of reflux esophagitis and the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in the United States over the past year and has received approval recently as first-line therapy for duodenal ulcer disease. Research involving more than 20,000 individuals, postmarketing surveillance studies, and thorough safety studies in man and animals have shown omeprazole to be well tolerated, with an incidence and spectrum of adverse events in clinical trials similar to those observed with H2RAs. 
Epidural lipomatosis as a cause of spinal cord compression in polymyalgia rheumatica. Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a common rheumatologic disorder in older individuals that usually requires chronic, low dose corticosteroid therapy for adequate control of symptoms. Epidural lipomatosis is a rare complication of chronic corticosteroid use in which neurologic deficits occur due to extradural fat compression of the spinal cord. The author describes the first reported case of epidural lipomatosis occurring as a complication of corticosteroid therapy in a patient with PMR. 
The child with spells. The purpose of this article was to discuss paroxysms, both neurologic and non-neurologic, that can mimic seizures. This is summarized in Table 4. It should be clear that the evaluation of any spell in a child should begin with a detailed and complete history. Historical features should focus on all aspects of the event--length of time, situation, appearance, quantity, as well as other features not directly pertaining to the event. Physical and neurologic examinations are frequently normal. Ancillary testing that may prove valuable include routine and video EEG monitoring as well as home video recording. 
Controlled trial of hypnotherapy in the treatment of refractory fibromyalgia. In a controlled study, 40 patients with refractory fibromyalgia were randomly allocated to treatment with either hypnotherapy or physical therapy for 12 weeks with followup at 24 weeks. Compared with the patients in the physical therapy group, the patients in the hypnotherapy group showed a significantly better outcome with respect to their pain experience, fatigue on awakening, sleep pattern and global assessment at 12 and 24 weeks, but this was not reflected in an improvement of the total myalgic score measured by a dolorimeter. At baseline most patients in both groups had strong feelings of somatic and psychic discomfort as measured by the Hopkins Symptom Checklist. These feelings showed a significant decrease in patients treated by hypnotherapy compared with physical therapy, but they remained abnormally strong in many cases. We conclude hypnotherapy may be useful in relieving symptoms in patients with refractory fibromyalgia. 
Changes in portal blood flow consequent to partial hepatectomy: Doppler estimation. Hemodynamic changes in portal blood flow were investigated in 56 patients with hepatic tumors who underwent partial hepatectomy. Portal flow was measured with a Doppler ultrasound system before, during, and after surgery. The portal flow of patients who underwent massive hepatectomy decreased intraoperatively. The portal flow per unit of cardiac output decreased in patients who underwent massive or major hepatectomy, patients with a cirrhotic liver, and patients who had a satisfactory postoperative course. Postoperatively, the portal flow in patients with a poor clinical outcome (multiple organ failure, hepatic failure, and cardiorespiratory failure) decreased significantly. Monitoring portal hemodynamic values appears to be useful in providing an index of "hepatic functional reserve." Adequate portal flow is essential for postoperative hepatic regeneration; changes in portal hemodynamic values may be directly related to the patient's ability to survive surgery and to regain or maintain normal liver function. 
Aneurysms of the intracavernous carotid artery: a multidisciplinary approach to treatment. Of 43 cavernous sinus aneurysms diagnosed over 6 1/2 years, 23 fulfilled indications for treatment; of these 19 were treated, eight surgically and 11 with interventional radiological techniques. Six small and two giant aneurysms were treated surgically: four were clipped, two were repaired primarily, and two were trapped with placement of a saphenous-vein bypass graft. Seven large and four giant aneurysms were treated with interventional radiological techniques: in five cases the proximal internal carotid artery (ICA) was sacrificed; one aneurysm was trapped with detachable balloons; and five were embolized with preservation of the ICA lumen. The mean follow-up period was 25 months. At follow-up examination, three patients in the surgical group were asymptomatic, two had improved, and three had worsened. Three of these patients had asymptomatic infarctions apparent on computerized tomography (CT) scans. At follow-up examination, four radiologically treated patients were asymptomatic, five had improved, two were unchanged, and none had worsened. One patient had asymptomatic and one minimally symptomatic infarction apparent on CT scans; both lesions were embolic foci after aneurysm embolization with preservation of the ICA. It is concluded that treatment risk depends more on the adequacy of collateral circulation than on the size of the aneurysm. A multidisciplinary treatment protocol for these aneurysms is described, dividing patients into high-, moderate-, and low-risk groups based on pretreatment evaluation of the risk of temporary or permanent ICA occlusion using a clinical balloon test occlusion coupled with an ICA-occluded stable xenon/CT cerebral blood flow study. Radiological techniques are suggested for most low-risk patients, while direct surgical techniques are proposed for most moderate- and high-risk patients. 
Assessment of exercise tolerance in chronic congestive heart failure. In patients with chronic heart failure, exercise capacity is poorly related to cardiac hemodynamics, and peripheral circulation is an important determinant of exercise tolerance. The ability of the muscle vasculature to dilate is markedly impaired, in part, because of exaggerated neurohumoral activity increasing vascular wall stiffness. For this reason, increasing cardiac output is not sufficient to increase exercise capacity if not accompanied by improving vascular reactivity. The poor reliability and reproducibility of exercise tolerance assessed by maximal exercise duration or maximal attained work load (particularly on a treadmill) has led to widespread measurement of respiratory gas during exercise. Peak oxygen consumption (peak VO2), even if it is symptom-limited, has been shown to be a very reproducible criterion of exercise tolerance; moreover, because VO2 is the product of cardiac output and arteriovenous oxygen difference, it also has a qualitative hemodynamic significance. Ventilatory threshold can be determined before maximal exercise; however, problems of determination limit the practical value of this criterion. Unfortunately, peak VO2 lacks sensitivity to detect minor improvement or impairment of symptoms during daily life, although these are significant to the patient. Submaximal exercises have been proposed for this purpose and are currently being evaluated. 
Percutaneous balloon pericardial window for patients with malignant pericardial effusion and tamponade. We performed percutaneous balloon pericardial window (PBPW) in 8 patients (age 40 to 70 yrs; 4 men, 4 women) with malignant pericardial effusion and tamponade. Pericardial window was indicated because they continued to drain greater than 100 ml/day of pericardial fluid through the pigtail catheter for greater than or equal to 3 days. A 0.038 inch guidewire was advanced through the pigtail catheter into the pericardial space and then the catheter was removed. A 20 mm diameter, 3 cm long balloon dilating catheter was advanced to straddle the parietal pericardium. Manual inflations were performed until the waist produced by the pericardium disappeared. All patients tolerated the procedure well with minimal discomfort and with no complications. A left or bilateral pleural effusion occurred in all patients after PBPW. No patient developed recurrent pericardial tamponade at a mean follow-up of 6 +/- 2 months. Thus, PBPW is a useful and safe technique to avoid surgery in patients with malignant pericardial effusion and tamponade. 
Three-dimensional x-ray computed tomography of the temporal bone as an aid to surgical planning. Three-dimensional x-ray computed tomography (3DCT) has been useful in planning surgical procedures involving craniofacial reconstruction, the pelvis, hip, spine, knee and shoulder. The clinical use of 3DCT in temporal bone surgery has not been evaluated. We used 3DCT to assess temporal bone anatomy in 9 patients. These cases evaluated two encephaloceles, two postinflammatory dehiscences, two temporal bone fractures, one glomus jugulare tumor, one acoustic neuroma, and one meningioma. We found 3DCT useful in these temporal bone applications as a supplement to standard two-dimensional CT scanning (2DCT). While 3DCT provided a better preoperative understanding of the underlying anatomy, no treatment was modified solely on the basis of the information derived from the 3-D presentation of data. We conclude that, although 3DCT images have some qualitative advantages over 2DCT techniques, their value in further defining temporal bone morphology must be evaluated against the cost entailed by their use. 
The analgesic effects of caffeine in headache. Caffeine is frequently added to mild analgesic preparations but its effect when used alone on pain has never been studied in humans. Using a double-blind placebo-controlled multiple crossover design, 53 patients with non-migrainous headaches were given placebo, acetaminophen, 2 doses of caffeine and 2 combinations of caffeine with acetaminophen. Caffeine appeared to have independent analgesic effects that were equivalent to acetaminophen and were still significant when statistical adjustments were made for prior caffeine consumption and caffeine's effects on mood. 
Molecular biology of prion diseases. Prions cause transmissible and genetic neurodegenerative diseases, including scrapie and bovine spongiform encephalopathy of animals and Creutzfeldt-Jakob and Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker diseases of humans. Infectious prion particles are composed largely, if not entirely, of an abnormal isoform of the prion protein, which is encoded by a chromosomal gene. A posttranslational process, as yet unidentified, converts the cellular prion protein into an abnormal isoform. Scrapie incubation times, neuropathology, and prion synthesis in transgenic mice are controlled by the prion protein gene. Point mutations in the prion protein genes of animals and humans are genetically linked to development of neuro-degeneration. Transgenic mice expressing mutant prion proteins spontaneously develop neurologic dysfunction and spongiform neuropathology. Understanding prion diseases may advance investigations of other neurodegenerative disorders and of the processes by which neurons differentiate, function for decades, and then grow senescent. 
Anterior transpetrosal-transtentorial approach for sphenopetroclival meningiomas: surgical method and results in 10 patients. This report presents a new surgical method and the results in 10 patients with petroclival meningiomas extending into the parasellar region (sphenopetroclival meningiomas). Minimal but effective extradural resection of the anterior petrous bone via a middle fossa craniotomy offered a direct view of the clival area with preservation of the temporal bridging veins and cochlear organs. The dural incision was extended anteriorly to Meckel's cave, and in cases with invasion of the cavernous sinus, Parkinson's triangle was enlarged by mobilization of the trigeminal nerve. This approach offered an excellent view from the mid-clivus to the cavernous sinus. Extra-as well as intradural tumor masses and dural attachments could be cleared under direct view of the pontine surface. The risk of injury to the lower cranial nerve and of retraction damage to the temporal lobe and brain stem were kept minimal by this approach. Total tumor resection was achieved in 7 patients, with no resultant mortality. Eight patients had a satisfactory postsurgical course, extraocular paresis being their main complaint. The extent of tumor resection depended on the degree of tumor adhesion to the carotid artery, and operative morbidity on the degree of tumor invasion of the brain stem. Of the 3 patients in whom subtotal tumor removal was achieved, only one experienced regrowth of the tumor and underwent a second operation during the follow-up period (6 months-6 years). 
Native right atrial tamponade with the Jarvik total artificial heart. Following a massive myocardial infarction culminating in cardiogenic shock, a 61-year-old man underwent implantation of the Jarvik 70-ml total artificial heart. On the fifth postoperative day, hemodynamic instability coupled with subtle radiographic changes and impaired mechanical right ventricular diastolic inflow were instrumental in establishing the diagnosis of localized native right atrial tamponade. To our knowledge, this report is the first detailed discussion of this phenomenon. 
High density lipoprotein turnover in patients with hypertension. Although hyperinsulinemia and decreased high density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration can occur in patients with hypertension, there is no information available concerning the dynamic state of high density lipoprotein metabolism. To address this issue, we quantified high density lipoprotein turnover in 12 patients with mild hypertension and 11 matched subjects with normal blood pressure. Patients with high blood pressure had lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations. Fractional catabolic rates of 125I-apolipoprotein AI (apoAI)/high density lipoprotein were faster in patients with hypertension (0.36 +/- 0.02 versus 0.26 +/- 0.02 l/day, p less than 0.001). Total synthetic rates of apoAI were also significantly greater in patients with high blood pressure (17.4 +/- 1.1 versus 13.2 +/- 0.6 mg/kg/day, p less than 0.001). Although significant correlation was observed between blood pressure and fractional catabolic rate of 125I-apoAI/high density lipoprotein in the experimental population (r = 0.52, p less than 0.01), no relation was found when patients with normal blood pressure or hypertension were considered separately. However, a highly significant positive correlation was found between 125I-apoAI/high density lipoprotein fractional catabolic rate and insulin concentration in the entire population (r = 0.72, p less than 0.001). In conclusion, the patients with mild hypertension studied were hyperinsulinemic, had a faster fractional catabolic rate of 125I-apoAI/high density lipoprotein, and a lower high density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentration. It is suggested that the changes seen in high density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentration and 125I-apoAI/high density lipoprotein fractional catabolic rates were secondary to the hyperinsulinemia and not due to the high blood pressure per se. 
Cold-induced brain edema and infarction are reduced in transgenic mice overexpressing CuZn-superoxide dismutase. It has been proposed that oxygen-derived radicals, superoxide in particular, are involved in the alteration of blood-brain barrier permeability and the pathogenesis of brain edema following trauma, ischemia, and reperfusion injury. Using transgenic mice that overexpress the human gene for copper-zinc-superoxide dismutase, we studied the role of superoxide radicals in the blood-brain permeability changes, edema development, and delayed infarction resulting from cold-trauma brain injury. At 2 hours after a 30-second cold injury, cerebral water and Evans blue contents were reduced, respectively, from 80 +/- 0.2% and 132.7 +/- 12.9 micrograms/gm of dry weight for nontransgenic mice to 78.5 +/- 0.3% and 87.1 +/- 9.9 micrograms/gm of dry weight for transgenic mice. Infarction, as measured by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining, was reduced by 52% in transgenic brains. These data indicate that an increased level of superoxide dismutase activity in the brain reduces the development of vasogenic brain edema and infarction. Superoxide radicals play an important role in the pathogenesis of these lesions in cold-traumatized brain. 
Constitutive expression and role in growth regulation of interleukin-1 and multiple cytokine receptors in a biphenotypic leukemic cell line. A cell line (B1) was established from the bone marrow of a patient with a relapse of acute leukemia characterized by a 4;11 chromosomal translocation and biphenotypic features of early B and myeloid lineages. Analysis of the growth requirements of this cell line showed density-dependent growth and secretion of an autostimulatory growth factor, suggesting an autocrine mechanism. Several lines of evidence implicate the participation of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the autocrine growth regulation of B1 cells. These cells constitutively express the messenger RNA (mRNA) for IL-1 and IL-1 receptor and secrete IL-1; recombinant IL-1 stimulated the growth of colonies when cells were seeded at low density, and anti-IL-1 antibodies inhibited the growth of colonies with cells seeded at higher density. B1 cells do not express detectable levels of mRNA for any of the other cytokines tested, and other cytokines failed to support the growth of B1 cells at low density. In addition, B1 cells express multiple cytokine receptor genes, including the receptors for IL-6, IL-7, tumor necrosis factor and gamma-interferon. Addition of the respective cytokines to the B1 cells resulted in inhibition of the growth of leukemic cells in vitro. The multiplicity of growth-inhibitory cytokine receptors on this leukemic cell line might be due to its biphenotypic lineage and may suggest new therapeutic possibilities in controlling leukemic cell proliferation. 
Technical considerations for prophylactic mastectomy in patients at high risk for breast cancer. A study of 5 patients and 10 mastectomy specimens was performed to identify the extent of surgery necessary to completely remove all breast tissue in patients having prophylactic mastectomies. A standard total mastectomy performed for breast cancer was shown to frequently leave breast tissue within the superficial pectoralis major muscle and the lower skin flap. Frozen section analysis of margins was found to be essential to clear the axillary extension of the breast and lower skin flap in particular. The value of more extensive surgery to remove all glandular elements of the breast in the high-risk patient remains to be demonstrated. 
Automated procedure for dewaxing and rehydration of paraffin-embedded tissue sections for DNA flow cytometric analysis of breast tumors. Flow cytometric DNA analysis of paraffin-embedded tumors is an important diagnostic and prognostic tool in clinical pathology. The technique is limited, however, by the time-consuming multistep procedure for dewaxing and rehydrating tissue. The authors developed an automated procedure to complete the dewaxing and rehydration of tissue using a routine histologic tissue processor with a 24-hour timer. This technique provided excellent tissue recovery and reproducible DNA histograms comparable to those obtained by manual methods. Subsequently, the authors analyzed the DNA content of 93 paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissues. The automation of a significant portion of the routine processing required for paraffin-embedded tissue makes cytometric DNA analysis a more practical procedure in the laboratory. 
Late complications involving the ascending aorta after cardiac surgery: recognition and management. Pseudoaneurysms and dissecting aneurysms of the ascending aorta after cardiac surgery are uncommon but important complications. Pseudoaneurysms, which result from extravasation of blood into the mediastinum, most commonly occur at the site of aortotomy or aortic cannulation. Infection may play an important role. Dissecting aneurysms after cardiac surgery usually occur at the site of aortic incision or cross clamping, especially in atherosclerotic aortas. Both conditions may be clinically silent but more frequently are seen with significant symptoms. Noninvasive techniques including CT scan, MRI, and echocardiography are very useful in the diagnosis of both complications, with contrast aortography remaining the definitive method. Surgical repair is necessary for dissecting aneurysms and for enlarging and symptomatic pseudoaneurysms, with improving morbidity and mortality. 
Recurrence of hepatitis C virus infection after orthotopic liver transplantation. Identification of the hepatitis C virus--the main cause of posttransfusion and sporadic non-A, non-B hepatitis--and the development of a diagnostic serological test have allowed us to study possible recurrence of this type of hepatitis after liver transplantation. Six of 34 consecutive transplant recipients were found to have had antibodies to hepatitis C before transplantation. All six patients had possible exposure to hepatitis C through blood transfusion or intravenous drug use. Five of the six patients were positive for antibodies to hepatitis C after 1 yr of follow-up. Two of these patients had clinical and histological evidence of acute viral hepatitis in their allografts. In one patient this led to hepatic injury and dysfunction of two successive grafts. In contrast, none of the twenty-eight patients who were seronegative for hepatitis C virus antibodies before transplantation has converted to seropositivity after transplantation despite perioperative blood transfusions. These results suggest that hepatitis C diagnosed serologically recurs in a minority of transplant recipients and that de novo seroconversion must be uncommon. 
Nutritional aspects and swallowing function of patients with Parkinson's disease. Seven patients with Parkinson's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent adrenal medullary transplant to the caudate nucleus for treatment of their neurologic disease. Preoperative nutritional assessment demonstrated that a significant number of the Parkinson's patients had mild to moderate nutritional depletion. Motility problems, manifest by dysphagia and delayed gastric emptying causing problems over a number of years, were probably responsible. Of the 10 patients studied, 6 were studied by videofluoroscopy. All patients had variable dysphagia of variable servility with or without aspiration. Etiologic factors included the basic underlying neurologic disease, delay in resumption of anti-parkinsonian medications, use of metoclopramide, and postoperative medical complications leading to a debilitated clinical state. 
Acute basophilic leukemia. A clinical, morphologic, and cytogenetic study of eight cases. The authors describe eight cases of acute basophilic leukemia. In six of the eight cases, basophilic involvement was not apparent by light microscopic examination. The cases were identified on the basis of ultrastructural evidence for basophil/mast cell differentiation of the blasts with little or no differentiation into other lineages. Ultrastructural analysis revealed immature basophil granules in blasts in all eight cases and theta granules in blasts in four cases. In three cases, ultrastructural evidence of mast cell differentiation also was present, with rare cells showing evidence for both basophil and mast cell differentiation. No clinical features distinguished this group of patients from others with acute myeloid leukemia. Cytogenetically, the cases were heterogeneous. Three had a Philadelphia chromosome; none had a t(6;9). The authors conclude that ultrastructural analysis usually must be used to diagnose acute basophilic leukemia, that acute basophilic leukemia is associated frequently with the Philadelphia chromosome, and that the ultrastructural findings provide evidence for a common origin of basophils and mast cells. 
Autoimmune enteropathy and nephropathy with circulating anti-epithelial cell antibodies. We describe a child with circulating anti-epithelial cell antibodies, autoimmune enteropathy with intestinal villous atrophy, and membranous glomerulonephritis. The patient had persistent diarrhea at 6 months of age, and a small bowel biopsy showed active enteritis, villous atrophy, and crypt hyperplasia. When the patient was, 10 months of age, nephrotic syndrome developed because of membranous glomerulonephritis. Results of tests for circulating immune complexes were negative. Indirect immunofluorescence studies revealed a circulating antibody directed against renal epithelial cells. Circulating antibodies directed against normal small intestine epithelial cells were also detected by the immunoperoxidase technique. Western blot and immunoprecipitation identified a 55-kd antigen, in both small bowel and kidney, that reacted with an antibody in the patient's serum. High-dose prednisone therapy induced a clinical remission, resolution of the small bowel injury, and diminished serum anti-epithelial cell antibodies; after dose reduction, clinical relapse occurred with villous atrophy and reappearance of anti-epithelial cell antibodies. When the patient was 45 months of age, persistent diarrhea recurred despite intravenous administration of corticosteroids, cyclosporine, and total parenteral nutrition. Autoantibodies to a 55-kd epithelial cell protein are temporally related to the development of enteropathy and nephropathy. Study of similar patients is needed to determine the role of such antibodies in this disorder. 
Burning pain in an extremity. Breaking the destructive cycle of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. The pathogenesis of reflex sympathetic dystrophy is controversial, but the condition can result from a major or seemingly minor injury to a limb, or even an insult to an organ, such as stroke or myocardial infarction. Onset can be sudden or insidious. The syndrome is characterized primarily by localized, deep, burning pain in a limb--pain that may not follow any logical distribution. Nonpitting edema, skin hyperesthesia, and guarding of the limb usually accompany the pain. If treatment is not instituted, deformity, contracture, and wasting of the limb can eventually occur. With appropriate therapy, the process can be stopped and often reversed. The keys are a high index of suspicion, early diagnosis, and aggressive treatment. 
Effects of nitroglycerin and diltiazem on well-developed coronary collateral circulation in conscious dogs. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of nitroglycerin and diltiazem on coronary collateral circulation. Studies were conducted in 8 conscious dogs instrumented for the measurement of left circumflex coronary artery (LCCA) flow, subendocardial segment lengths in areas perfused by the LCCA, and left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). Brief, repeated LCCA occlusions sufficiently developed collateral vessels for the resting metabolic requirement in the LCCA region. One week following the cessation of repeated LCCA occlusions, two-minute coronary occlusions with and without drug pretreatment were performed on separate days. The ischemic responses to coronary occlusions were not altered by diltiazem (50 micrograms/kg, IV), but nitroglycerin (5 micrograms/kg, IV) attenuated myocardial ischemia definitely. The authors conclude that nitroglycerin produces greater effects than diltiazem in attenuating myocardial ischemia in the collateral dependent zone when effects of each drug on systemic and coronary circulation were minimized by pretreatment with small doses. 
Comparative evaluation of carcinoembryonic antigen, secretory component, and mucins in index and metachronous adenomas of the colorectum. Of 124 patients who underwent endoscopic polypectomy, 70 were colonoscopically reevaluated during a mean period of 10 years. On the basis of the clinical outcome, the patients were divided into three groups: group 1, 31 patients who had a colon still with no adenomas or cancer; group 2, 35 patients in whom one or more metachronous adenomatous polyps developed; and group 3, 4 patients in whom a carcinoma of the colon subsequently developed. In addition to the clinical and pathological features, the pattern of the immunohistologic staining for carcinoembryonic antigen and secretory component was studied. Moreover, the mucin histochemical staining intensity of neutral mucins, sulfomucins, and sialomucins was evaluated. The features of the 40 index adenomas obtained from patients in group 1 were compared with the features of the 51 index adenomas from patients in group 2. Furthermore, these characteristics of the index adenomas were compared with those in the 69 metachronous adenomas of the group 2 patients. It was found that male sex (P less than 0.005) and a history of colorectal neoplasia (P less than 0.02) are main factors for the development of new adenomas. The neutral mucins were less abundant in the group 2 index adenomas (r = -0.21; P less than 0.05). The expression of the other evaluated markers was not significantly different between both groups, although the group 2 index adenomas were significantly smaller (r = -0.22; P less than 0.05) and showed a trend toward a more pronounced cytoplasmic expression of carcinoembryonic antigen than the index adenomas from group 1 (22% vs. 12.5%). Moreover, it was found that in comparison with the index adenomas, metachronous adenomas were significantly smaller (r = -0.24; P less than 0.01) and more sessile (r = 0.20; P less than 0.002). Significant negative correlations, i.e., decrease, were also found in the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (surface P less than 0.001; cytoplasmic P less than 0.05) and neutral mucins (P less than 0.005) between the index adenomas and the metachronous adenomas, whereas positive correlations were found for secretory component (P = 0.0001) and sulfomucins (P less than 0.05). These findings suggest that a limited production of neutral mucins in the goblet cells of a small index adenoma from a male patient with a history of colorectal neoplasia is indicative of an increased risk for the development of new colorectal adenomas. Furthermore, the clinical, mucin histochemical, and immunohistochemical findings of the metachronous adenomas show less malignancy-associated features than those of the index adenomas. 
Comparison of enteral nutrition and drug treatment in active Crohn's disease. Results of the European Cooperative Crohn's Disease Study. IV This study compared the effect of enteral nutrition as the sole therapy of active Crohn's disease with drug treatment. Patients with active Crohn's disease (Crohn's Disease Activity Index greater than 200) were randomized to receive either enteral nutrition with a liquid oligopeptide diet (n = 55) or a combination of 6-methylprednisolone, 48 mg daily, subsequently tapered, and sulfasalazine, 3 g daily (n = 52). The two groups were not different with respect to age, sex, body weight, location of disease, or treatment before the study. The severity of disease was similar at the beginning of the study in both groups [Crohn's Disease Activity Index (mean +/- SEM), 323 +/- 12 vs. 316 +/- 11]. Remission was defined as a decrease of the initial Crohn's Disease Activity Index by 40% or at least 100 points. Twenty-nine patients in the diet group and 41 patients in the drug group reached remission within 6 weeks of therapy (chi 2 test, P less than 0.01). The median elapsed time to remission was 30.7 days in the diet group compared with 8.2 days in the drug group (Mantel Cox, P less than 0.01). To determine whether one of these treatments was more beneficial for a subgroup of patients, the effectiveness of both treatments was analyzed separately in patients with very severe disease (initial Crohn's Disease Activity Index greater than 300) and less severe disease (initial Crohn's Disease Activity Index less than 300), and in patients with different disease location. However, no influence of initial disease activity or disease location on the effect of either treatment could be shown. These data show that enteral nutrition is less effective than a combination of 6-methylprednisolone and sulfasalazine in treating active Crohn's disease. 
Abnormalities of pathways of fibrin turnover in the human pleural space. The potential importance of pleural fibrin deposition in the pathogenesis of pleural injury is supported by both clinical and experimental observations. We hypothesized that the local equilibrium between procoagulant and fibrinolytic activities is disrupted to favor fibrin deposition in exudative pleuritis. To test this hypothesis, we characterized procoagulant and fibrinolytic activities in pleural exudates from patients with pneumonia, lung cancer, or empyema and transudates from patients with congestive heart failure. Procoagulant activity was generally increased in exudative processes and was due mainly to tissue factor. All effusions contained antithrombin III and inhibited factor Xa and thrombin, but endogenous prothrombinase or thrombin activities were variably detected. Pleural fluid fibrinolytic activity was increased in congestive heart failure and was due to both tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase. Depressed fibrinolytic activity was found in pleural exudates despite increased concentrations of plasminogen, mainly glu-1-plasminogen, and was due to inhibition of plasminogen activation by plasminogen activator inhibitors 1 and 2 and of plasmin, in part by alpha 2-antiplasmin. Concentrations of PAI-1 in exudative pleural fluids were increased up to 913-fold, compared with normal pooled plasma. Exudative pleural effusions are characterized by increased procoagulant and depressed fibrinolytic activity, favoring fibrin deposition in the pleural space. The balance of these activities is reversed and favors fibrin clearance in congestive heart failure. 
Adenine arabinoside monophosphate and acyclovir monophosphate coupled to lactosaminated albumin reduce woodchuck hepatitis virus viremia at doses lower than do the unconjugated drugs. The woodchuck was selected to study the efficacy of liver-targeted antiviral drugs on hepadnavirus replication. Nineteen woodchucks chronically infected with woodchuck hepatitis virus were treated with adenine arabinoside monophosphate or acyclovir monophosphate, either free or conjugated with the liver-targeting molecule lactosaminated human serum albumin. Circulating woodchuck hepatitis virus DNA levels remained unchanged in untreated animals and in those receiving the carrier lactosaminated human serum albumin alone; in contrast, they were consistently lower after 5 days of treatment with the antiviral drugs. Free and conjugated adenine arabinoside monophosphate were active at doses of 10 and 0.75 mg/kg, respectively, and free and coupled ACVMP were active at doses of 20 and 2.6 mg/kg, respectively. These results indicate that the dosages of adenine arabinoside monophosphate and acyclovir monophosphate required to inhibit hepadnavirus growth can be sharply reduced by coupling the drugs to lactosaminated human serum albumin. 
The epidemiologic importance of dysentery in communities. This paper explores the epidemiologic importance of dysentery with use of several community studies that demonstrate its prevalence and incidence as well as its association with pathogens, nutritional status, persistent diarrhea, and death. Results of these studies showed that while watery diarrhea was most prevalent in children aged 6-11 months, the prevalence of dysentery peaked between 18 and 23 months of age. Severely stunted children were found to have significantly prolonged episodes of dysentery. Shigella and persistent diarrhea were more frequent in children with dysentery than in those with nonbloody diarrhea. A striking feature was that watery diarrhea, dysentery, persistent diarrhea, and malnutrition each account for less than 5% of all deaths among children aged less than 5 years. However, persistent diarrhea in association with malnutrition causes 13% of deaths in children aged 0-4 years and 27% of deaths in those aged 1-4 years. These data suggest that a more balanced strategy for diarrheal control is required simply because most diarrheal deaths occur among malnourished children with prolonged diarrhea, which is mainly due to dysentery. Results of the studies also suggest that methods to control dysentery in the community should focus on improved hygiene and antimicrobial treatment with use of appropriate algorithms. Recognition of the synergism between dysentery and persistent diarrhea accompanied by malnutrition is crucial in formulating effective programs for control of diarrhea. 
The significance of portal vein thrombosis after distal splenorenal shunt. The aims of this study were to determine the incidence of portal vein thrombosis after the distal splenorenal shunt, to identify any predictive factors, and to assess the clinical significance of this complication. Preoperative and postoperative angiograms and clinical evaluation were reviewed in 124 patients who underwent distal splenorenal shunts. Total and partial portal vein thrombosis were seen on 13 (10.5%) and 22 (17.7%) postoperative angiograms, respectively. The only preoperative variable correlating with development of portal vein thrombosis was portal venous perfusion, which was significantly lower in patients with than in those without portal vein thrombosis. In six of 10 patients with postoperative pancreatitis, portal vein thrombosis developed. The frequency of early postoperative complications was significantly greater in patients with total portal vein thrombosis than in those with partial or no thrombosis. Long-term follow-up has shown no significant effects of portal vein thrombosis on late ascites, encephalopathy, or survival. 
Chronic calcific pancreatitis in a patient with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. We report on a patient with chronic calcific pancreatitis associated with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and we have hypothesized a possible relationship between these two entities. The hyperviscosity of serum in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia may be associated with a viscous pancreatic juice that leads to stone formation. 
Comparative aspects of osteosarcoma. Dog versus man. Canine osteosarcoma bears striking resemblance to osteosarcoma in humans. Similarities include the following: male sex predilection, large patient size, 75% or more affecting the appendicular site, metaphyseal location, generally unknown etiology, less than 10% of patients have documented metastasis at presentation, over 90% of tumors show high-grade histology, 75% of tumors show aneuploidy, the metastatic rate is 80% or more with amputation alone, the lung is the most common site of metastasis, and there is improved survival with adjuvant chemotherapy. The major differences are age of onset, with dogs being affected in middle age; greater frequency in the dog, with over 8000 new cases per year; and time to metastasis being faster in the dog than man. Canine osteosarcoma is a readily available and highly comparable spontaneously occurring cancer that should be useful in a better understanding of the same disease in humans. 
Effect of weight loss on upper airway collapsibility in obstructive sleep apnea. Previous investigators have demonstrated in patients with obstructive sleep apnea that weight reduction results in a decrease in apnea severity. Although the mechanism for this decrease is not clear, we hypothesize that decreases in upper airway collapsibility account for decreases in apnea severity with weight loss. To determine whether weight loss causes decreases in collapsibility, we measured the upper airway critical pressure (Pcrit) before and after a 17.4 +/- 3.4% (mean +/- SD) reduction in body mass index in 13 patients with obstructive sleep apnea. Thirteen weight-stable control subjects matched for age, body mass index, gender (all men), and non-REM disordered breathing rate (DBR) also were studied before and after usual care intervention. During non-REM sleep, maximal inspiratory airflow was measured by varying the level of nasal pressure and Pcrit was determined by the level of nasal pressure below which maximal inspiratory airflow ceased. In the weight loss group, a significant decrease in DBR from 83.3 +/- 31.0 to 32.5 +/- 35.9 episodes/h and in Pcrit from 3.1 +/- 4.2 to -2.4 +/- 4.4 cm H2O (p less than 0.00001) was demonstrated. Moreover, decreases in Pcrit were associated with nearly complete elimination of apnea in each patient whose Pcrit fell below -4 cm H2O. In contrast, no significant change in DBR and a minimal reduction in Pcrit from 5.2 +/- 2.3 to 4.2 +/- 1.8 cm H2O (p = 0.031) was observed in the "usual care" group. We conclude that (1) weight loss is associated with decreases in upper airway collapsibility in obstructive sleep apnea, and that (2) the resolution of sleep apnea depends on the absolute level to which Pcrit falls. 
Cavernomas of the central nervous system: clinical and neuroimaging manifestations in 47 patients. Forty seven cases of central nervous system cavernous angioma (21 males and 26 females) are described. The main clinical signs were epilepsy and brainstem syndromes. Digital subtraction intra-arterial angiography, when used, failed to reveal cavernoma. CT detected many of the lesions, but the most successful supplementary diagnostic procedure was MRI which produces highly characteristic images of cavernous angioma. The diagnosis of cavernous angioma was confirmed in the 18 cases in which the tumour was removed surgically. 
Upper airway collapsibility in snorers and in patients with obstructive hypopnea and apnea. During sleep, mild reduction in inspiratory airflow is associated with snoring, whereas obstructive hypopneas and apneas are associated with more marked reductions in airflow. We determined whether the degree of inspiratory airflow reduction was associated with differences in the collapsibility of the upper airway during sleep. Upper airway collapsibility was defined by the critical pressure (Pcrit) derived from the relationship between maximal inspiratory airflow and nasal pressure. In 10 asymptomatic snorers, six patients with obstructive hypopneas, and 10 patients with obstructive apneas, during nonrapid eye movement sleep, Pcrit ranged from -6.5 +/- 2.7 cm H2O to -1.6 +/- 1.4 and 2.5 +/- 1.5 cm H2O, respectively (mean +/- SD, p less than 0.001). Moreover, higher levels of Pcrit were associated with lower levels of maximal inspiratory airflow during tidal breathing during sleep (p less than 0.005). We conclude that differences in upper airway collapsibility distinguish among groups of normal subjects who snore and patients with periodic hypopneas and apneas. Moreover, the findings suggest that small differences in collapsibility (Pcrit) along a continuum are associated with reduced airflow and altered changes in pattern of breathing. 
Adhesiolysis. Lysis of adhesions improves pregnancy rates. Results of laparoscopic lysis are not different from those of laparotomy. Since laparoscopy is more convenient to the patient, less expensive, saves hospital beds, and involves low morbidity, it should be the preferred surgical approach to the diagnosis and treatment of pelvic adhesions whenever possible. The use of a sharp dissection combined with electrocautery seems, at this time, to be equally effective to the use of lasers of different kinds. Adjuvants presently available, especially Hyskon or INTERCEED, have an added benefit to surgery alone. Even with the best surgical technique, adhesions tend to re-form. Although SLL will identify the extent of adhesion re-formation, the therapeutic advantage of lysing re-formed adhesions is yet to be proved. 
Coronary artery stenting after angioplasty with self-expanding parallel wire metallic stents. Parallel wire stents were implanted over exchange guide wires at percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty sites in 27 canine coronary arteries that were predilated with slightly oversized balloons. Stents were stainless steel, self-expandable, 3.5 to 4.5 mm in diameter, 9 to 12 mm in length, and were made of 10 wires that were longitudinally laser-welded in a zig-zag design. The compressible stent was delivered by the withdrawal of a Teflon outer catheter (4.2 to 4.9F) and the push of a polyethylene inner catheter. Aspirin, 80 mg per day, was given from the day before the study began, and heparin (150 U/kg) was administered during implantation. Quantitative angiography and pathologic examinations were performed at day 0 and at weeks 2, 4, 12, 26 and 52. The coronary angiographic diameter at the stent site immediately after stenting marginally increased from diameter before stenting: 3.22 +/- 0.40 mm versus 3.14 +/- 0.37 mm (p = 0.03), and during a mean of 14 weeks of follow-up, remained unaltered from immediate post-stenting: 3.29 +/- 0.43 mm versus 3.22 +/- 0.40 mm (p = NS) with no stent displacement. Comparisons of patency and thrombosis between heparin-coated and uncoated stents, between left anterior descending and circumflex arteries, and among the three different diameters of stents showed uniformly good results. At microscopy, the wires were oriented perfectly and embedded in the arterial wall, and by 2 weeks they were covered by mucopolysaccharide ground substance, smooth muscle cells, and an almost complete monolayer of neoendothelial cells. 
Eight-year outcome in infants with birth weight of 500 to 999 grams: continuing regional study of 1979 and 1980 births. Victorian Infant Collaborative Study Group. The outcome at a mean age of 8.3 years was determined for 88 of 89 surviving children with birth weights of 500 to 999 gm who were born in Victoria in 1979 and 1980; the condition of the untraced child, severely disabled at 5 years of age, was assumed to be unchanged at 8 years. Principal impairments in the children at 8 years of age were cerebral palsy 8 (9%); bilateral blindness 6 (6.7%) and poor vision in another 4 (4.5%); bilateral deafness requiring amplification 5 (5.6%); and epilepsy 2 (2.2%). The Full Scale score of the Weschler Intelligence Scales for Children--Revised was available for 77 children: 5 scores (6.5%) were less than 71 (low IQ), and 9 (11.7%) were between 71 and 85 (borderline IQ). Severe disability in 16 children (18%) was due to severe cerebral palsy, bilateral blindness, or low IQ. Mild or moderate disability was present in another 18 children (20.2%) with borderline IQ, mild or moderate cerebral palsy, poor vision, deafness, or epilepsy. Significantly more outborn children (10/18, 55.6%) than inborn children (24/71, 33.8%) were disabled. Ten children required special schooling; reading accuracy or comprehension was at least 18 months behind chronologic age in 17 (23%) of 75 children in normal school who were tested. The 2-year assessment correctly estimated the category of disability at 8 years of age in 55 (62%), overestimated it in 24 (27%), and underestimated it in 10 (11%). For the 82 children also seen at 5 years age, the category of disability at 8 years of age was correctly identified in 69 children (84%), overestimated in 4 (5%), and underestimated in 9 (11%). Change in psychologic test scores was the principal reason for reclassifying children. We conclude that the 2-yar assessment was valuable in the early identification of most of the severely disabled children, but developmental delay at 2 years of age did not always portend intellectual impairment at 8 years of age. 
Sun protection in childhood. There is compelling evidence that childhood is a particularly vulnerable time for the photocarcinogenic effects of sun exposure on the skin. Studies indicate that excessive sun exposure during the first 10-20 years of life greatly increases the risk of skin cancer. Nonmelanoma skin cancer (basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma) has been associated with cumulative sun exposure, whereas melanoma has been associated with short, intense sun exposure or blistering sunburn. Under normal circumstances, children receive three times the annual sun exposure of adults; most of one's lifetime sun exposure occurs in childhood. Depletion of the earth's protective ozone layer adds to the photodamage problem. It is clear that sun protection is most vital in the early years. Those with fair skin are at highest risk. Photoprotective measures including sunscreen, clothing, and sun avoidance in childhood may significantly reduce the occurrence of melanoma and other skin cancer in later life. Regular use of sunscreen with a sun protection factor of 15 during the first 18 years of life could reduce the lifetime incidence of nonmelanoma skin cancer by 78%. Pediatricians can play a major role in educating parents and children. 
Sacrospinous fixation--should this be performed at the time of vaginal hysterectomy? A sensible individualized approach should be applied to every patient undergoing transvaginal surgery for benign disease. This approach should attempt to correct every defect present in the pelvic supports. Uterovaginal prolapse is the result rather than the cause of genital prolapse. Not every vaginal hysterectomy should be treated like a cystocele-rectocele repair. Instead, every defect of the endopelvic fascial support should be evaluated in a patient both before and during surgery. As a result of these evaluations, more than just a hysterectomy and an anterior and posterior colporrhaphy may be performed. In a case in which a patient is found to have more than one defect at the time of examination, sacrospinous fixation of the vaginal apex at the time of transvaginal hysterectomy may be indicated. In the office, the patient can be examined in the supine and standing positions, both with and without Valsalva's maneuver, to determine if moderate to severe uterovaginal prolapse exists. Sacrospinous fixation should be performed in those cases as an adjunct to other steps taken to prevent postthysterectomy prolapse. 
Animal models for arterial thrombolysis and prevention of reocclusion. Erythrocyte-rich versus platelet-rich thrombus. Experimental animal models for erythrocyte-rich (ER) and platelet-rich (PR) arterial thrombosis were developed in dogs and rabbits and used for the evaluation of the effect of antithrombin and antiplatelet agents on thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activators (rt-PA). The canine models consist of a whole blood clot produced in the left anterior descending coronary artery (ER thrombus) or a 1-cm everted (inside-out) segment graft in the circumflex coronary artery that predisposes to occlusion with PR material (PR thrombus). The rabbit models consist of a femoral arterial whole blood clot (ER thrombus) or a femoral arterial eversion graft (PR thrombus). The whole blood clot models are sensitive to recanalization with rt-PA but are consistently associated with reocclusion, notwithstanding the concomitant use of heparin and/or aspirin. Clot lysis is accelerated and reocclusion is prevented by the administration of F(ab')2 fragments of a monoclonal antibody 7E3 directed against the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor; of Argatroban, a synthetic thrombin inhibitor; or of kistrin, a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-blocking polypeptide from the Malayan pit viper venom. The PR thrombus models are very resistant to recanalization with rt-PA, but this resistance can be overcome by the concomitant use of the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-blocking antibody. Thus, selective platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are more effective than aspirin, heparin, or both in accelerating arterial thrombolysis with rt-PA; in preventing reocclusion after clot lysis; and in overcoming the resistance of PR thrombus to dispersion with rt-PA. These experimental animal models may be useful in the development of improved thrombolytic strategies using plasminogen activators in conjunction with specifically targeted antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents. 
Is fiber mitochondrial volume density a good indicator of muscle fatigability to isometric exercise? The relationship between the ratio of interfibrillar mitochondrial volume density (Vvmit) to myofibrillar volume density (Vvmyo) and isometric fatigue characteristics of the human triceps surae was determined in six bodybuilders, six endurance athletes, and six active controls before and after 16 wk of isometric training at 30 or 100% maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) in six sedentary subjects in a unilateral exercise model. Time to fatigue at 30% MVC was significantly less in sedentary subjects before training than in the other subject groups, but it was similar to the other groups posttraining. Stereological analyses of type I fibers indicated that Vvmit/Vvmyo was less in bodybuilders than in other subjects. Training at 30% MVC increased type I fiber Vvmit/Vvmyo of the soleus by 11% but did not affect the gastrocnemii. Training at 100% MVC did not alter Vvmit/Vvmyo in any muscle, nor was this ratio changed in type II fibers by either training program. Despite the morphological differences, both training protocols increased relative endurance, although greater fatigue resistance was seen after training at 30% MVC. Correlation analyses indicated that isometric endurance and improvements in muscle endurance by isometric exercise were not dependent on increasing interfibrillar Vvmit or Vvmit/Vvmyo in either fiber type. 
Electromechanical dissociation in newborns treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: an extreme form of cardiac stun syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To recognize cardiac stun syndrome and electromechanical dissociation in patients receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), and to define patients at risk. DESIGN: Retrospective review. SETTING: Tertiary neonatal ICU. PATIENTS: Four newborn patients with cardiorespiratory failure who developed signs of cardiac stun syndrome and electromechanical dissociation early in the ECMO course. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Initially, these patients had metabolic acidosis, chest roentgenograms showing pulmonary granularity and moderate cardiomegaly, and symptoms of severe respiratory distress. Cardiac dysfunction was apparent after ECMO was begun, with poor perfusion, pale color, narrow pulse pressure, and tachycardia despite normovolemia. Within 1 to 2 hrs, electromechanical dissociation occurred manifested by the absence of pulse pressure, palpable pulse, cardiac sounds, and apical impulse while on 50% to 70% bypass. All patients survived. INTERVENTIONS: Patients received ECMO, calcium gluconate, sodium bicarbonate, and dobutamine. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with cardiac stun syndrome have symptoms similar to severe respiratory distress syndrome, and may require ECMO support. In the ECMO patient, cardiac stun syndrome and electromechanical dissociation can be confused with low circuit volume, pneumothorax, or cardiac tamponade. Early recognition of electromechanical dissociation may improve care and outcome. Cardiac stun syndrome can be treated successfully with ECMO. 
Complete infarction of the eye complicating a choroidal malignant melanoma. Infarction of malignant melanoma of the choroid has been previously reported, but infarction of the whole eye in association with infarction of melanoma is a rare event that has not been previously described. We present such a case and discuss the possible pathogenesis. 
Management of hypertensive emergencies: changing therapeutic options. Rapid lowering of severe hypertension is essential to prevent irreversible damage to vital organs. The patient's clinical status should be evaluated, noting particularly cardiac, neurologic, and renal functions. Choice of treatment should be based on speed and efficacy of action and on hemodynamic, vascular, and renal consequences. It is also important to preserve circulatory homeostasis and vital organ function. Sodium nitroprusside, labetalol, diazoxide, and hydralazine have been used parenterally for rapid control of severe hypertension, but they do not always produce optimal, balanced hemodynamic effects. Calcium antagonists have been advocated because of their beneficial circulatory effects. Nicardipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, produces significant antihypertensive effects, and when given intravenously, results in a rapid fall in blood pressure. Studies have confirmed that nicardipine is effective and safe in the management of severe hypertension and hypertensive crises. Because the aim of rapidly controlling severe hypertension is to prevent target organ dysfunction, nicardipine therapy offers a useful additional option in the clinical management of severe hypertension and hypertensive crises. 
Clinical characteristics and surgical management of vascular complications in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization: interventional versus diagnostic procedures. The purpose of this report is to define the clinical characteristics and outcome of surgical management of vascular complications after interventional cardiac catheterization and to contrast them to those after diagnostic cardiac catheterization. From October 1985 to December 1989, 101 patients were treated for 106 vascular complications after 1866 interventional and 5046 diagnostic cardiac catheterizations at the University of Michigan Medical Center. Interventional catheterizations resulted in 69 vascular complications in 64 patients (frequency 3.4%). The most common interventions included coronary angioplasty (34), of which 10 required percutaneous partial cardiopulmonary bypass, intraaortic balloon pump placement (14), and aortic valvuloplasty (11). Interventional catheter-related complications included hemorrhage (33), arterial thrombosis (18), pseudoaneurysm formation (12), catheter embolization (2), thromboembolism (2), as well as arteriovenous fistula, pseudoaneurysm, and arterial dissection (1 each). Fifteen of these 69 patients (24%) had suffered acute myocardial infarction just before their catheterization. Surgical repair was performed under local anesthesia in 70% of patients. Major vascular reconstructions were required in 9% of patients. Three percent of the involved lower extremities had to be amputated because of complications occurring after arterial puncture. Eight percent of the patients incurring vascular complications after interventional procedures died after operation. Diagnostic catheterizations resulted in 37 vascular complications in 37 patients (frequency 0.7%). In contrast to diagnostic cardiac catheterization, vascular complications after interventional cardiac catheterization occurred more frequently, were most often due to hemorrhage at the vascular access site, and occurred in high-risk, critically ill patients. 
Staving off acute otitis media. When is prophylaxis with antibiotics desirable? Acute otitis media affects most young children and is the condition for which children are most frequently treated with antibiotics. A pattern of recurrent acute ear infections develops in some children and is a source of frustration for parents and physicians. Recurrent episodes can exacerbate asthma or other underlying medical problems, and long-term effects can include chronic otitis media with permanent middle-ear injury and, possibly, delay in psychomotor and language development. Antibiotic prophylaxis can reduce the number of episodes of acute otitis media in children at high risk for recurrent infection. There is no perfect antibiotic to prevent acute otitis media. However, the risks associated with the drugs described in this article are low. Prophylaxis with antibiotics does not prevent all episodes of acute otitis media but can reduce the number of episodes by 50%. 
The mechanism responsible for diminished neutrophil production in neonates delivered of women with pregnancy-induced hypertension. The neonatal neutropenia after pregnancy-induced hypertension is a function of diminished neutrophil production. These studies test the hypothesis that this diminution is due to decreased production of neutrophilic growth factors, reduced responsiveness of neutrophil progenitors to these factors, or the presence of an inhibitor. While the concentrations of placentally derived colony-stimulating factors were similar in normotensive and hypertensive gestations, bioassay demonstrated less colony-stimulating activity in placental conditioned media from hypertensive gestations. Evaluation of the responsiveness of progenitors to recombinant factors revealed no differences between those from normotensive and hypertensive gestations. However, neutrophilic colony formation in vitro was significantly inhibited after the addition of conditioned media or sera from hypertensive gestations, whereas the addition of these from normotensive gestations had no inhibitory effect. Thus this common maternal-fetal disorder is associated with an inhibitor of neutrophil production, which is elaborated by the placenta and present in cord blood serum. 
Transient white matter changes on MR images in children undergoing chemotherapy for acute lymphocytic leukemia: correlation with neuropsychologic deficiencies. The cranial magnetic resonance (MR) images of 25 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) who were undergoing chemotherapy were retrospectively studied to determine the frequency of white matter changes and to analyze the significance of these observed changes in predicting subsequent neuropsychologic deficiencies. MR images showed transient white matter abnormalities in 17 of the 25 patients during consolidation therapy. Twelve of 20 children showed neuropsychologic deficits. There was no correlation between white matter changes and neuropsychologic deficits. In the subgroup of children under age 5 years at the time of diagnosis, 10 of 11 showed neuropsychologic deficits, and eight of 11 had white matter changes. Children under age 5 who undergo chemotherapy for ALL are at high risk to develop neuropsychologic deficiencies. Age at diagnosis is a reliable predictor of subsequent neuropsychologic deficits. 
The risk of axillofemoral bypass grafting for acute vascular occlusion. The hypothesis of the present study is that axillofemoral bypass grafting for acute vascular occlusion has results significantly inferior to an elective procedure. We reviewed 53 patients undergoing primary axillofemoral bypass grafting at the University of Virginia from 1984 to 1989. We found that patients who were admitted with acute vascular occlusion had a higher incidence of perioperative complications (63% vs 26%, p = 0.001), perioperative mortality (26% vs 3%, p less than 0.05), lower graft patency at 1 year (60% vs 90%, p less than 0.05), lower rate of freedom from reoperation in first year (50% vs 82%, p less than 0.01), and lower rates of limb salvage (76% vs 94%, p less than 0.05) than patients undergoing axillofemoral bypass grafting for chronic symptoms or conditions. These two groups did not differ in any of the other risk factors or perioperative characteristics examined. We conclude axillofemoral bypass grafting performed for indications other than acute vascular occlusion is associated with acceptable morbidity, mortality, graft patency, and limb salvage rates. 
Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibition and intracellular electrolyte content in essential and secondary hypertension. A crucial role of humoral factors in the pathogenesis of primary hypertension is discussed. In 1982 Hamlyn et al demonstrated the presence of a Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibitor in the plasma of essential hypertensives and showed a significant correlation of the Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibition with the blood pressure. In this study we examined whether an Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibitor could be found in the blood of essential hypertensives as compared to patients with secondary hypertension (renal hypertension, renal artery stenosis, pheochromocytoma). Second, the possible correlation between an inhibition of Na+, K(+)-ATPase and the intracellular electrolyte composition was examined. The results demonstrate a similar reduction of Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibition in both essential hypertensives and secondary hypertensives as compared to normotensive controls. Further, the intracellular electrolyte composition (Na+, Na; K+, Ca) does not show a significant correlation to the degree of Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibition, whereas a significant correlation between the degree of Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibition and intracellular Cl- concentration could be demonstrated. The present study shows that an endogenous Na+, K(+)-ATPase inhibitor is also present in secondary forms of hypertension, thus implying that a specific role in the pathogenesis of primary hypertension for an Na+, K(+)-inhibitor is unlikely. 
Oral rehydration therapy for invasive diarrhea. Current guidelines for the management of diarrheal diseases focus on the use of oral rehydration therapy (ORT). Clinically evident dehydration of a moderate degree is not uncommon with invasive diarrhea, and when it occurs, the response to ORT is satisfactory. Studies from hospitals and the community each document the effectiveness of ORT for rehydration of patients with invasive diarrhea. This has been confirmed in a clinical trial of oral rehydration solution (ORS) for the treatment of diarrheal diseases in children less than 5 years of age. Children with moderate dehydration benefited most from ORS, especially those who had culture-proven invasive diarrhea. Significant early weight gain was observed for this group of patients alone after rehydration with ORS. In developing countries, there is no reason to withhold ORT at the first signs of watery or dysenteric diarrhea regardless of the cause and independent of the decision to treat the patient with antimicrobial agents. 
Prior poliomyelitis-reduced capillary supply and metabolic enzyme content in hypertrophic slow-twitch (type I) muscle fibres. Capillary supply and oxidative and glycolytic enzyme activities were determined in muscle biopsies from the tibialis anterior muscle in six prior polio patients and a control group. The polio patients, who had paresis and atrophy, but were able to walk normally by making maximal use of all remaining anterior tibial motor units, showed type I (slow-twitch) muscle fibre predominance with a mean (SD) of 98 (2%) type I fibres versus 81 (8)% in the controls (p less than 0.01) and muscle fibre hypertrophy, the average type I fibre cross-sectional area being 108% (p less than 0.005) larger than in the controls. The number of capillaries per muscle fibre was not significantly different from that in the control group, but with the increased muscle fibre area in the polio patients, the capillary density was significantly lower. The number of capillaries in contact with type I fibres relative to fibre area was 40% lower in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.005). The levels of citrate synthase and phosphofructokinase were significantly lower (38% and 33%, respectively, p less than 0.05) in the patients than in the controls, indicating decreased oxidative and glycolytic potentials in the muscle fibres of the polio patients. It is proposed that the abnormal high-frequency activation of all remaining motor units during each step cycle recorded in these patients constitutes a stimulus for type I muscle fibre predominance and hypertrophy but that the overall low muscle usage results in a decreased stimulation of capillary proliferation and mitochondrial enzyme synthesis. 
The herpes simplex virus 1 segment inversion site is specifically cleaved by a virus-induced nuclear endonuclease. Nuclear extracts from several tissue culture cell lines (human, primate, and murine) contain an endonuclease that specifically cleaves sequences at the herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) segment inversion site. Mapping studies identified the preferential site of cleavage as a set of tandemly repeated dodecamers, the DR2 repeats. Endonuclease levels vary according to the proliferative state of the cell; little or no activity is detectable in extracts from quiescent cells, whereas high levels are expressed in dividing cells. Also, infection of density-arrested BSC-1 cells with HSV-1 induces a substantial increase (at least 35-fold) in endonucleolytic activity, which is first detectable at about 1 hr after infection at 32 degrees C. The elevated levels of enzyme activity then persist throughout the viral life cycle. In addition to the HSV-1 DR2 repeats, certain other G+C-rich sequences with an asymmetric distribution of purines and pyrimidines on the DNA strands and with appropriate sequences and lengths are substrates for the nuclease. These data indicate that target site recognition by the enzyme is conformation specific rather than sequence specific. 
Adrenal cortical carcinoma with vena cava tumor thrombus requiring cardiopulmonary bypass for resection. We believe this is the fifteenth case report of adrenal cortical carcinoma with tumor thrombus to the vena cava, and the fourth reported case of a left-side tumor propagating thrombus to the vena cava. The patient underwent successful resection which required cardiopulmonary bypass. The caval tumor thrombus was very friable and gelatinous, unlike many renal cell thrombi, and required special surgical considerations. 
Bleeding after endoscopic sphincterotomy as an underestimated entity. Hemorrhage is the most frequent complication of endoscopic sphincterotomy, with a reported incidence of 2 to 9 per cent. Previous reports have generally defined this complication clinically, leaving the issue of occult bleeding after sphincterotomy essentially unaddressed. Seventy-five serial sphincterotomies were reviewed to further assess this complication. Nine patients had clinically evident hemorrhage and 27 patients had occult bleeding manifested only by a decrement in hematologic parameters, for a total postsphincterotomy bleeding rate of 48 per cent. No statistically significant risk factors for bleeding were delineated. Endoscopically recognized bleeding at the time of the sphincterotomy was 47 per cent sensitive and 85 per cent specific in predicting postprocedural bleeding. Significant delayed hemorrhage was manifest in three patients, one of whom had clinically occult bleeding. We conclude that bleeding complicates endoscopic sphincterotomy much more frequently than previously reported, although often in a clinically occult manner. Significant delayed bleeding can occur, and may not be clinically apparent. Bleeding recognized endoscopically at the time of sphincterotomy is an insensitive but relatively specific predictor of postprocedural bleeding. As use of endoscopic sphincterotomy increases, careful surveillance for hemorrhagic complications, as well as efforts to identify factors predisposing to the same, will be of increasing importance. 
Blood-brain barrier disruption after cardiopulmonary resuscitation in immature swine. We investigated blood-brain barrier permeability in 2-3-week-old anesthetized pigs during and after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. We assessed permeability by tissue uptake of radiolabeled aminoisobutyric acid, after correcting for plasma counts in tissue with radiolabeled inulin. Among 14 regions examined, the transfer coefficient of aminoisobutyric acid in nonischemic control animals ranged from 0.0018 +/- 0.0001 ml/g/min in diencephalon to 0.0049 +/- 0.0003 ml/g/min in cervical spinal cord. After 8 minutes of cardiac arrest followed by either 10 or 40 minutes of continuous sternal compression, there was no increase in the transfer coefficient. Likewise, during the immediate period after ventricular defibrillation, there was no increase in transfer coefficient despite the brief, transient hypertension. However, after 8 minutes of arrest, 6 minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and 4 hours of spontaneous circulation, the transfer coefficient was significantly increased by 59-107% in 10 of 11 regions rostral to the pons. Plasma volume in tissue measured by inulin was not elevated, suggesting that the increased transfer coefficient was not due to increased surface area. Thus, after an 8-minute period of complete ischemia, the blood-brain barrier remains intact during and immediately after resuscitation despite large vascular pressure fluctuations. However, in contrast to previous work on adult dogs, immature pigs are prone to a delayed increase in permeability, thereby allowing circulating substances greater access to the brain. 
Ankle arthrodesis. A comparison of internal and external fixation. The authors reviewed the results of ankle arthrodesis in 68 ankles in 66 patients. The average follow-up period of the patients was five years (range, two to ten years). There were 40 ankles in which internal fixation was used and 28 ankles in which external fixation was used. The two groups were compared to determine the effect of mode of stabilization on outcome. Outcome was measured by time to union, development of complications, and clinical follow-up result. The groups were similar in regards to gender, age, and preoperative diagnosis. The external fixation group had a significantly higher prevalence of complications, including non-union, delayed union, and infection, than the internal fixation group. It was concluded that ankle arthrodesis with internal fixation is better tolerated and has fewer complications than techniques that use external fixation. 
Double-blind controlled study of botulinum toxin in adductor spasmodic dysphonia. The treatment of adductor spasmodic dysphonia using botulinum toxin A was conducted in 13 patients as a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients were diagnosed independently by an interdisciplinary team consisting of speech pathologists, an otolaryngologist, and a neurologist. The toxin or saline was injected into each thyroarytenoid muscle under electromyographic and laryngoscopic guidance. Botulinum toxin A markedly reduced perturbation, decreased fundamental frequency range, and improved the spectrographic characteristics of the voice. Fundamental frequency and phonation time remained unchanged. Patients injected with botulinum toxin A noticed significant improvement in their voices in comparison with the placebo-treated group. Excessive breathiness of the voice occurred in two patients, and mild bleeding in one patient in the botulinum toxin A-treated group. Injection with saline resulted in edema of the vocal cord in one patient. Botulinum toxin A proved to be an effective and safe treatment of adductor spasmodic dysphonia. 
Usefulness of the nude mouse model in mesothelioma based on a direct patient-xenograft comparison. A patient with malignant mesothelioma experienced tumor recurrence 3 months after pleuropneumonectomy. Samples of the tumor were transplanted into nude mice to assess chemosensitivity. There was close concordance between the results in xenografts and the clinical outcome in this patient. Both mitomycin and to a lesser extent cisplatin were effective as single agents against the nude mouse xenografts, and the combination of these two drugs produced a complete response both in the patient and in the xenografts. The patient survived 18 months from onset of chemotherapy and 24 months from diagnosis. The duration of clinical complete response to chemotherapy was 14 months, despite the fact that mitomycin, the most effective agent against the xenografts, was discontinued after only two cycles because the patient developed pulmonary toxicity. This direct patient-xenograft correlation further validates the usefulness of the nude mouse model in the search for effective therapies for malignant mesothelioma, a tumor characterized by frequent refractoriness to most available agents. 
Combination antimicrobial therapy in the treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease. We compared the clinical and microbiologic efficacy of two broad-spectrum combination antimicrobial regimens in the treatment of 148 patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease. Patients were randomized to inpatient treatment with either cefoxitin and doxycycline (n = 75) or clindamycin and tobramycin (n = 73). These antibiotics were administered intravenously for at least 4 days, and up to 48 hours beyond defervescence. Patients were discharged on a regimen of oral doxycycline or clindamycin in accordance with the intravenous regimen to complete a total duration of therapy of 2 weeks. Neisseria gonorrhoeae (53%) and Chlamydia trachomatis (31%) were the microorganisms that were isolated most frequently from the genital tract of enrolled patients. At follow-up, N. gonorrhoeae was isolated in two patients, and C. trachomatis was isolated in none. The overall initial favorable response rate to combination antimicrobial therapy was 98.5% (130/132) in patients with uncomplicated pelvic inflammatory disease and 81% (13/16) in patients with pelvic inflammatory disease that was complicated by tuboovarian abscess. A greater than 70% decrease in abdominal tenderness score occurred in 89% of 111 patients within 6 weeks of hospital discharge. There were no significant differences between antibiotic treatment groups in any response categories or in toxicity. During the initial hospitalization, five patients (three with tuboovarian abscess; one with a pyosalpinx, and one with intractable acute and chronic pelvic inflammatory disease) required surgical intervention. These results support the recommendation to use broad-spectrum combination antimicrobial therapy for the treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease. 
Psychological changes accompanying non-pharmacological treatment of chronic headache: the effects of outcome. Several prior studies suggest that non-drug treatment for chronic headache is accompanied by concomitant reductions in patients' anxiety, depression and somatization. It is currently unclear, however, whether such beneficial side effects are a function of degree of headache relief or are due simply to receiving treatment. Most work to date in this area has treated outcome as a dichotomous variable. The present report employed a regression approach which treats outcome (degree of headache relief) as a continuous variable in the study of 149 chronic headache patients and their accompanying psychological changes. Anxiety and depression were significantly reduced for headache patients regardless of degree of headache relief. With somatization, however, degree of headache relief had a significant effect; the greater the reduction in headache, the fewer somatic concerns were expressed, especially for mixed headache. 
Subcutaneous metoclopramide in the treatment of symptomatic gastroparesis: clinical efficacy and pharmacokinetics. We investigated the safety and efficacy of short-term s.c. administration of metoclopramide in the treatment of symptomatic gastric stasis. Ten patients with gastroparesis, documented by abnormal solid phase radionuclide gastric emptying study, were treated with 10 mg (2 ml) of s.c. metoclopramide every 6 hr for 3 days. Patients gave themselves the injections as outpatients. Questionnaires were then completed concerning symptom relief, local side effects and adverse reactions. A repeat gastric emptying study was obtained immediately after the last dose of metoclopramide. Serum metoclopramide concentrations were obtained at trough, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 hr postadministration and serum prolactin levels at trough, 1 and 3 hr. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed mean peak metoclopramide concentration at 30 min of 99.7 +/- 47.1 ng/ml with measured levels of 93.9 +/- 106.83 ng/ml at 60 min and return to trough values by 4 hr; trough prolactins remained elevated above normal values. Gastric stasis improved from a base-line retention of 78.7% of radioisotope at 2 hr to 72.5% after 3 days of therapy (P = .65). Eight patients reported significant improvement in symptomology and two patients reported lessening of symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, bloating, abdominal pain, heartburn and vomiting. The side effects were minimal and did not interfere with completion of the protocol. We demonstrated that s.c. administration of metoclopramide was well accepted by patients and resulted in subjective and objective improvement of gastric stasis. In addition, serum metoclopramide concentrations were comparable with other parenteral routes of administration. Furthermore, serum prolactin levels may provide both a bioassay of efficacy and a marker for monitoring compliance. 
Disseminated histoplasmosis in a renal transplant patient: a cause of renal failure several years following transplantation. A 49-year-old man developed disseminated histoplasmosis 6 1/2 years after transplantation. The organism was initially present in the urine and in a tongue lesion. Treatment with itraconazole was instituted. However, there was further dissemination of the disease and worsening of renal function. Allograft biopsy showed extensive involvement with the organism. Amphotericin B was started, resulting in a rapid resolution of the disease. However, renal function deteriorated, leading to permanent hemodialysis. 
Dietary risk factors associated with acute and persistent diarrhea in children in Karachi, Pakistan. Feeding practices may have an important impact on diarrheal diseases in developing countries. This study evaluated feeding practices in three groups of male children aged 6-36 mo: 100 with persistent diarrhea (PD), 79 with acute diarrhea (AD), and 86 in a comparison group (CG). The children came from comparably poor socioeconomic settings in Karachi, Pakistan, except that the literacy rates were higher in mothers of the CG (P = 0.0001). Although greater than 95% of all infants were breast-fed, delayed initiation of breast-feeding was more common in the diarrhea groups. Children with diarrhea were also more likely to receive supplemental milk (PD = 92%, AD = 87%) than were children in the CG (69%, P less than 0.05). Feedings were not withheld during diarrhea but changes were made in the nature of foods given. These results indicate that several feeding practices may be important risk factors for diarrhea in Pakistan. 
Adenocarcinoma of urinary bladder: classification and management. Adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder is an uncommon, often aggressive urologic cancer. In an attempt to classify and define management of this tumor, 28 patients with vesical adenocarcinoma were studied. Excluded were patients with mixed transitional cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. Three major classes of tumor were identified: primary vesical adenocarcinoma, urachal adenocarcinoma, and extravesical adenocarcinoma involving the bladder. Signet ring cell tumors appeared to behave more aggressively than other cell types. Radical surgery was the most effective treatment. 
The role of platelets, thrombin and hyperplasia in restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Coronary angioplasty has become a successful and widely used treatment for patients with coronary artery disease since its first clinical application in 1977. The primary success rate has improved despite the increase in procedure and case complexity. However, acute reocclusion and late restenosis, which constitute the most important problems after successful angioplasty, continue to occur in about 5% and 35% of patients within 3 to 6 months, respectively. Angioscopic and pathologic observations have suggested that a multifactorial pathophysiologic process accounts for acute reocclusion, involving marked thrombosis, intimal dissection, medial and subintimal hemorrhage, vascular recoil and vasocontriction. In contrast, chronic restenosis involves the development of fibrocellular intimal hyperplasia within a milieu created by vascular injury, platelet activation, thrombin generation and the release of mitogens. Although current pharmacologic approaches, which involve antithrombotic and anticoagulant therapy, have been largely ineffective in eliminating acute reocclusion and chronic restenosis, recent advances in the research in thrombosis, platelet receptors and smooth muscle growth regulation have allowed new therapeutic options to be tested in the experimental setting, with subsequent potential clinical applications in patients. 
The Washington University-Barnes Hospital experience with lung transplantation. Washington University Lung Transplantation Group OBJECTIVE.--To review our experience with lung transplantation, emphasizing recipient selection, choice of procedure, functional results, and outcome. DESIGN.--Retrospective review of patients who received lung transplants at Barnes Hospital, St Louis, Mo, between July 1, 1988, and January 31, 1991. SETTING.--Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Mo, and Barnes Hospital, a medical school and its affiliated referral hospital, respectively. PATIENTS.--Sixty-nine lung transplant procedures were performed in 66 recipients. Patients with clinically and physiologically severe lung disease were selected according to predetermined guidelines. Underlying diseases in the recipients included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency emphysema, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, primary pulmonary hypertension, Eisenmenger's syndrome associated with an atrial septal defect, bronchiectasis, eosinophilic granuloma, and lymphangiomyomatosis. INTERVENTION.--Double-lung, bilateral sequential, and single-lung transplantations were performed. Eight patients underwent en bloc double-lung transplantations or a modification of this procedure with separate bronchial anastomoses. Thereafter, the bilateral sequential approach to replacement of both lungs was performed in 26 patients. Thirty-two patients underwent single-lung transplantations. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Pulmonary function tests, arterial blood gas levels, pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance, and actuarial survival. RESULTS.--Actuarial survival at 1 year for the 66 lung transplant recipients was 79%. Actuarial survival at 1 year was 82% for the bilateral lung transplant recipients and was 90% for the single-lung transplant recipients. In patients with either restrictive or obstructive lung disease, pulmonary function tests and arterial blood gas levels improved markedly after lung transplantation. In patients with primary pulmonary hypertension or Eisenmenger's syndrome, the pulmonary artery pressure decreased and the cardiac index increased into the normal range after single-lung transplantation. CONCLUSIONS.--In carefully selected patients with end-stage lung disease, single-lung and bilateral lung transplantations can significantly improve functional capacity, with promising early actuarial survival statistics after 1 year. 
Endothoracic endoesophageal pull-through operation. A new approach to cancers of the esophagus and proximal stomach. Many thoracic surgeons have expressed concern about the complications inherent in transhiatal esophagectomy without thoracotomy. The technique of endothoracic endoesophageal pull-through uses a mucosal coring of normal esophagus beyond the tumor and leaves a muscular tube through which the substitute organ is passed. Mediastinal hemorrhage, tracheal injury, and chylothorax are eliminated. 
Pellagra in a patient with an eating disorder. A case of pellagra is described that occurred in a patient with an eating disorder and who presented with marked photosensitivity and diarrhoea. We found urinary 5-hydroxy-indole-acetic acid to be low and suggest that this may be a useful screening test. To our knowledge this is only the second reported case of pellagra associated with an eating disorder. 
Perioperative stroke. Part II: Cardiac surgery and cardiogenic embolic stroke. The major mechanism of stroke in cardiac surgery is embolization. The risk is higher in intracardiac than in extracardiac surgery. The incidence of stoke associated with CABG is about 5%. The cerebral protective properties of isoflurane and thiopentone, acid-base management, and monitoring of cerebral perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass are discussed. Prophylactic carotid endarterectomy for patients with asymptomatic carotid disease before cardiac surgery is not necessary. Symptomatic carotid disease increases the risk of stroke, and the management of patients who have both symptomatic coronary and carotid artery diseases is discussed. Cardiogenic embolism is probably responsible for many perioperative strokes. Patients with atrial fibrillation, valvular disease, and prosthetic heart valves are at high risk of cardiogenic embolism. Strokes associated with cardioversion, pacemaker insertion, coronary arteriography and angioplasty are explored. 
Desirability of immediate surgical standby for coronary angioplasty. OBJECTIVE--To assess the value of emergency surgical standby for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. DESIGN--Retrospective review of the major complications of coronary angioplasty in a regional cardiac centre. SETTING--All angioplasties were performed in the cardiac catheterisation laboratory of Wythenshawe Hospital with surgical standby in an adjoining operating theatre. PATIENTS--1262 vessels were dilated in 1032 patients (mean age 53 years) between 1984 and 1989. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--In-hospital mortality from emergency surgical revascularisation after angioplasty; the rate of myocardial infarction and overall morbidity. RESULTS--Coronary angioplasty achieved primary success in 90% of cases. Thirty eight (3.7%) patients (five women (mean age 55.8) and 33 men (mean age 53.0] were referred for urgent surgical revascularisation--36 direct to operation and two within 24 hours. All patients survived surgery. Five of the 38 had had a previous angioplasty to the same vessel and one had had previous coronary artery grafts. Four of the 38 had an angioplasty for unstable angina. Eighteen had single, 13 double, and seven triple vessel coronary artery disease. The target vessel was the left anterior descending in 25, right coronary artery in nine, circumflex in three, and the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries in one. Five required external cardiac massage on the way to the operating theatre; two of them had a left main stem occlusion. Four internal mammary artery and 60 reversed saphenous vein grafts were implanted (1.6 per patient). Complete revascularisation was achieved in 36 (94.7%) patients. Q wave myocardial infarction occurred in six (15.8%). The final outcome was: none dead, three patients with angina, one late death, one cerebrovascular accident, one late operation for a new left anterior descending lesion, two patients on diuretics with or without an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. One orthotopic transplant was performed in a patient in whom cardiogenic shock developed after the left anterior descending coronary artery became occluded 72 hours after angioplasty. CONCLUSION--There was no surgical mortality and low morbidity among patients for whom immediate surgical cover was requested. 
Recurrent adnexal torsion and cystadenoma of aberrant ovarian tissue. Torsion of the adnexa is rare, and diagnosis is difficult because of the sparse clinical findings. I describe a patient with recurrent torsion of the right adnexa, involving a cystadenoma of aberrant ovarian tissue. Her only symptom was recurrent right-sided pelvic pain. 
Limitations of ultrasonography in surveillance of small abdominal aortic aneurysms. The repeatability, observer bias and instrument bias of aortic diameter measurement by ultrasonography, were investigated in ten patients with small (3-6 cm by computed tomography) infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm. The repeatability of maximum aortic diameter measurement by ultrasonography was much better for anterior-posterior than transverse diameter, with coefficients of repeatability 3.0-7.5 mm and 10-15 mm respectively. The repeatability of suprarenal aortic diameter measurement was poor. Surprisingly, maximum diameter using ultrasonography was larger than that using computed tomography, the difference being least for anterior-posterior measurements. At best a single, experienced observer, using the same instrument may provide aortic diameters using ultrasonography accurate to within 5 mm, but more commonly such aortic diameter is only accurate to within 8 mm. 
Argon beam coagulation is superior to conventional techniques in repair of experimental splenic injury. Present management of splenic trauma focuses on splenic preservation. However, conventional operative techniques for splenic salvage are time consuming and frequently ineffective. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of the argon beam coagulator (ABC) in the management of experimental splenic injury. Ten adult miniature pigs were randomized to treatment with either conventional surgical techniques (topical Surgicel, electrocautery, suture-ligation, digital pressure) or splenic repair with the ABC. Three standard splenic injuries were made in each pig: capsular avulsion, splenic laceration, and hemisplenectomy. The ABC was more effective in treating all three types of splenic injury. The time required to achieve hemostasis and total operative time were significantly less in the group treated with the ABC for all three types of splenic injuries (p less than 0.05, Student's t-test, two sided). Operative blood loss was significantly less in the group treated with ABC for avulsion and hemisplenectomy (p less than 0.05, Student's t-test, two sided). Recurrent bleeding was significantly higher in the group treated with conventional techniques (p less than 0.001, Fisher's exact test, two-sided). We conclude that the argon beam coagulator is more effective than conventional techniques in treating experimental splenic injuries. The ABC provides more rapid and reliable hemostasis. Clinical trials using the ABC for splenic injury are warranted. 
Factors relevant to preventing embolic stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation. Whether or not to treat patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation with anticoagulants to prevent embolic stroke is a dilemma for physicians. If randomized trials, currently underway, demonstrate a beneficial effect, the dilemma will not be solved because not all of the relevant factors can be addressed by trials. We used current knowledge about non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation and a method of obtaining patient-derived weights for avoiding stroke from eight medically trained subjects, to determine the overall benefit of anticoagulants and to see what factors were relevant and what effect each might have in deciding whether to use anticoagulant therapy. Using standard assumptions, anticoagulants gave an expected benefit for all subjects. The expected benefit (expressed in terms of lives per 1000 saved due to anticoagulants) varied between 5.4 and 46.7. This benefit remained for all subjects when we did a sensitivity analysis for different rates of stroke prevented by anticoagulants and different rates of intracranial hemorrhage caused by anticoagulants. When we used different baseline rates of stroke and different impacts of major hemorrhagic complications the benefit disappeared for 3 and 4 subjects respectively. We found the factors that were most crucial to the decision will not be included in randomized trials; the weight that an individual would place on avoiding embolic stroke vs the risk of intracranial bleeding from anticoagulant therapy; and the rate of embolic stroke that could be expected for the subject at risk. Factors which will be measured in randomized trials, will change results less substantially: the increased risk of major hemorrhages; the proportion of strokes that could be prevented by treatment; the increase in risk of intracranial hemorrhage. This method of analysis suggests that for most patients anticoagulants are beneficial and that the most important factor in determining this result is the value that subjects put on different outcomes. 
Sarcoplasmic reticulum-associated cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate phosphodiesterase activity in normal and failing human hearts. Sarcoplasmic reticulum-associated cAMP phosphodiesterase activity was examined in microsomes prepared from the left ventricular myocardium of eight heart transplant recipients with end-stage idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and six unmatched organ donors with normal cardiac function. At cAMP concentrations less than or equal to 1.0 microM, sarcoplasmic reticulum-associated cAMP phosphodiesterase activity was functionally homogeneous. cAMP phosphodiesterase activity was inhibited competitively by cGMP (Ki = 0.031 +/- 0.008 microM) and the cilostamide derivative OPC 3911 (Ki = 0.018 +/- 0.004 microM), but was essentially insensitive to rolipram. Vmax and Km were 781.7 +/- 109.2 nmol/mg per min and 0.188 +/- 0.031 microM, respectively, in microsomes prepared from nonfailing hearts and 793.9 +/- 68.9 nmol/mg per min and 0.150 +/- 0.027 microM in microsomes prepared from failing hearts. Microsomes prepared from nonfailing and failing hearts did not differ with respect to either the ratio of cAMP phosphodiesterase activity to ATP-dependent Ca2+ accumulation activity or the sensitivity of cAMP phosphodiesterase activity to inhibition by OPC 3911. These data suggest that the diminished inotropic efficacy of phosphodiesterase inhibitors in failing human hearts does not result from changes in the level, kinetic properties, or pharmacologic sensitivity of sarcoplasmic reticulum-associated cAMP phosphodiesterase activity. 
Erythropoietin deficiency in acute crescentic glomerulonephritis and in total bilateral renal cortical necrosis. Six patients with acute renal failure, in five cases due to acute crescentic glomerulonephritis and in one case due to total bilateral renal cortical necrosis, were studied. All had serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations in the normal range, despite a relatively severe anaemia. Half-life and plasma clearance of intravenously injected recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) were determined. The results indicate that the lack of compensatory increase in serum EPO to the anaemic stimulus is not due to increased catabolism, but to decreased synthesis of the renal hormone. Two patients were treated with rhEPO (Eprex). In marked contrast to untreated controls, both patients responded with vigorous reticulocytosis and normalization of haemoglobin levels while they were still in severe renal failure. These results are similar to our previous findings in patients with acute renal failure due to tubular necrosis. Under all three conditions the defective EPO synthesis is probably the dominant pathogenetic factor for the largely aregeneratory anaemia of prolonged cases, and for the sluggish restoration of red cell mass during recovery of renal function. It is concluded that defective synthesis of EPO is not only a permanent and irreversible feature of severe chronic renal failure, but that it is also present, usually in a transient and reversible form, in different types of acute renal failure. 
Chronic sialadenitis with psammoma bodies mimicking neoplasia in a fine-needle aspiration specimen from the submandibular gland. A 65-year-old woman with a submandibular gland nodule had a fine-needle aspiration specimen that contained groups of duct-type cells and a psammoma body, suggestive of adenocarcinoma. The resected gland showed chronic sialadenitis with sialolithiasis and psammoma bodies. In a series of 81 resected nonneoplastic submandibular glands from 72 patients, psammoma bodies, nonlaminated microcalcifications, or both were found in 46 (57%). They were located most commonly just outside of striated or intercalated ducts. When examining fine-needle aspiration specimens from the submandibular gland, it is important that one be aware that psammoma bodies may occur in normal, inflamed, irradiated, and neoplastic conditions. 
Deficits in strategy application following frontal lobe damage in man. A quantitative investigation of the ability to carry out a variety of cognitive tasks was performed in 3 patients who had sustained traumatic injuries which involved prefrontal structures. All 3 had severe difficulties in 2 tests which required them to carry out a number of fairly simple but open-ended tasks over a 15-30 min period. They typically spent too long on individual tasks. All patients scored well on tests of perception, language and intelligence and 2 performed well on a variety of other tests of frontal lobe function. Explanations for their difficulty on the multiple subgoal tasks in terms of memory or motivational problems could be excluded. It is argued that the problem arose from an inability to reactivate after a delay previously-generated intentions when they are not directly signalled by the stimulus situation. 
Descending thoracic aortofemoral bypass as an alternative for aortoiliac revascularization. We performed descending thoracic aorta to femoral bypass in six selected patients over the past four years. An alternative inflow source was selected because the standard transabdominal approach was contraindicated or considered hazardous. The inflow consisted of a single Dacron tube from the descending thoracic aorta to the left groin, and a femorofemoral bypass to the right groin. There was no operative mortality or major morbidity related to the surgical procedure. After an average follow-up of 17.1 months (range 6 to 23 months), all thoracofemoral grafts remained patent. One patient had repeated occlusions of the femorofemoral graft related to right lower extremity outflow disease, while the remaining five crossover grafts are patent. One patient died 22 months postoperatively from a myocardial infarct, with a patent bypass. Although this series represents a small group of patients, we feel that descending thoracic aortofemoral bypass offers excellent inflow and reliable patency, and is a good alternative when reoperation on the abdominal aorta is undesirable. This procedure may also be considered for conversion of an axillofemoral bypass that has failed repeatedly. 
The European Stroke Prevention Study (ESPS): results by arterial distribution. The European Stroke Prevention Study was a multicenter study comparing the effect of the combination of dipyridamole, 75 mg, and acetylsalicylic acid, 330 mg, three times a day, to that of placebo in 2,500 patients in the secondary prevention of stroke or death after one or more transient ischemic attacks, reversible ischemic neurological deficits, or strokes of atherothrombotic origin. The patients with vertebrobasilar events at entry comprised one-third of the whole patient population. The overall total incidence of stroke or death (the end points) during the 2-year follow-up in the placebo group was lower in the vertebrobasilar group compared to the carotid group (14% versus 24%, respectively). The combination therapy of dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid caused a marked reduction in the incidence of stroke or death in patients with vertebrobasilar (51%) and carotid (30%) events. When only stroke was considered as the end point, dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid seemed to be more effective in reducing the risk of transient ischemic attacks than stroke, and more effective in men than in women. 
Intravenous adenosine: continuous infusion and low dose bolus administration for determination of coronary vasodilator reserve in patients with and without coronary artery disease. To assess the use of adenosine as an alternative agent for determination of coronary vasodilator reserve, hemodynamics and coronary blood flow velocity were measured at rest and during peak hyperemic responses to continuous intravenous adenosine infusion (50, 100 and 150 micrograms/kg per min for 3 min) and intracoronary papaverine (10 mg) in 34 patients (17 without [group 1] and 17 with [group 2] significant left coronary artery disease), and in 17 patients (11 without and 6 with left coronary artery disease) after low dose (2.5 mg) intravenous bolus injection of adenosine. The maximal adenosine dose did not change mean arterial pressure (-10 +/- 14% and -6 +/- 12% for groups 1 and 2, respectively) but increased the heart rate (15 +/- 18% and 13 +/- 16, respectively). For continuous adenosine infusions, mean coronary flow velocity increased 64 +/- 104%, 122 +/- 94% and 198 +/- 59% and 15 +/- 51%, 110 +/- 95% and 109 +/- 86% in groups 1 and 2, respectively for each of the three doses. Mean coronary flow velocity increased significantly after 100 and 150 micrograms/kg of adenosine and 10 mg of intracoronary papaverine (48 +/- 25, 52 +/- 19 and 54 +/- 21 cm/s, respectively; all p less than 0.05 vs. baseline) and was significantly higher than in group 2 (37 +/- 24, 32 +/- 16, 41 +/- 23 cm/s; all p less than 0.05 vs. group 1). The coronary vasodilator reserve ratio (calculated as the ratio of hyperemic to basal mean flow velocity) for adenosine and papaverine was 2.94 +/- 1.50 and 2.94 +/- 1.00, respectively, in group 1 and was significantly and similarly reduced in group 2 (2.16 +/- 0.81 and 2.38 +/- 0.78, respectively; both p less than 0.05 vs. group 1). Low dose bolus injection of adenosine increased mean velocity equivalently to that after continuous infusion of 100 micrograms/kg, but less than after papaverine. There was a strong correlation between adenosine infusion and papaverine for both mean coronary flow velocity and coronary vasodilator reserve ratio (r2 = 0.871 and 0.325; SEE = 0.068 and 0.189, respectively; both p less than 0.0005). No patient had significant arrhythmias or prolongation of the corrected QT (QTc) interval with adenosine, but papaverine increased the QT (QTc) interval from 445 +/- 44 to 501 +/- 43 ms (p less than 0.001 vs. both maximal adenosine and baseline) and produced nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in one patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Continuous vectorcardiography in cardiac surgery: natural course of vector changes and relationship to myocardial oxygen uptake. Continuous vectorcardiography was registered before and during the first 18 hours after cardiac surgery in 53 patients. QRS vector changes (QRS-VD) occurred during the operation, but no further changes were observed postoperatively. The ST vector (ST-VM) increased during the operation, and a further slight increase occurred postoperatively. Perioperative myocardial infarction occurred in three patients. Their ST-VM was higher than the average in patients without myocardial infarction, while QRS-VD did not differ from the average pattern. Twelve other patients were studied in pacemaker-induced moderate tachycardia. QRS-VD increased in proportion to heart-rate changes (rs median = 0.93, p less than 0.01). QRS-VD also correlated with myocardial oxygen uptake (rs median = 0.62, p less than 0.05). The ST-VM responses were not uniform. The data suggest that vectorcardiogram variables can provide information related to myocardial energy metabolism. 
Value of electrocardiographic leads MCL1, MCL6 and other selected leads in the diagnosis of wide QRS complex tachycardia. To compare the modified precordial leads MCL1 and MCL6 with the conventional precordial leads V1 and V6 and assess the diagnostic accuracy of selected leads for continuous bedside electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring, 121 wide QRS complex tachycardias were recorded from 92 patients during cardiac electrophysiologic study. As ascertained from intracardiac recordings, 86 tachycardias were ventricular and 35 were supraventricular with aberrant conduction. Early or late peaking of the predominant QRS deflection in lead MCL6 or V6 proved valuable in diagnosing wide complex tachycardia. An interval of less than or equal to 50 ms from the onset of the QRS complex to the predominant peak (or nadir) indicated supraventricular tachycardia; an interval of greater than or equal to 70 ms indicated ventricular tachycardia. The QRS complexes in leads MCL1 and MCL6 were comparable to those in leads V1 and V6 during sinus rhythm. Significant discrepancies in QRS configuration occurred between the modified and conventional precordial leads during ventricular tachycardia, especially between leads MCL1 and V1; however. these differences did not affect diagnostic accuracy. A single MCL1, V1, MCL6 or V6 lead was equally valuable in the diagnosis of wide complex tachycardia and far superior to a single lead II. A combination of leads (MCL1 + MCL6), (V1 + V6), (V1 + I + aVF) or (V1 + V6 + I + aVF) was superior to a single lead or the routinely monitored lead V1 + II combination. 
Multiple luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor messenger ribonucleic acid transcripts. It has previously been shown that multiple messenger RNA (mRNA) species can be identified in gonadal tissues by probes specific for the LH/CG receptor. Here we show that the sizes and relative abundancies of gonadal LH/CG receptor transcripts are quite variable between such closely related species as rat and mouse. These patterns of LH/CG receptor mRNAs are yet different from that observed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells that have been transfected with a cDNA encoding for the rat luteal LH/CG receptor. In spite of the diversity in the number and sizes of LH/CG receptor mRNA transcripts, however, our data also show that the size of the cell surface receptor expressed in these three cells/tissues is identical. We further show that the most abundant LH/CG receptor mRNA present in MA-10 cells, a clonal strain of cultured Leydig tumor cells, is a 1.2 kilobase transcript which encodes for a truncated version of the LH/CG receptor corresponding to the extracellular hormone-binding domain. It does not appear, however, that this transcript is translated into a functional protein. 
Cytomegalovirus infection of the appendix in patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Disseminated cytomegalovirus infection occurs predominantly in immunocompromised hosts. Involvement of the gastrointestinal tract in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is frequent, but to our knowledge there is only one report of involvement of the appendix. In this study, a patient with a history of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with fever and an acute abdomen is described. At surgery, appendicitis was found. In the surgical specimen, appendicitis and cytomegalovirus infection were found. Cytomegalovirus should be considered as a possible cause of appendicitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Echo Doppler duplex scanner and color in the study of portal hypertension. In the present state of the art, the Doppler duplex scanner provides much information about portal hypertension and its associated pathology, liver cirrhosis, hepatic malformations, vascular or avascular structures, hepatic transplants, and ascites. Its usefulness for experimental studies, providing new insight into the pathophysiology of this disease, has been proven. It is limited by the subjectivity of the conclusions, and by its poor feasibility in fat patients and those with excessive abdominal gas. However, the noninvasive nature of Doppler and its relative low cost make it a useful first step in the evaluation of portal hypertension. 
Anismus in patients with normal and slow transit constipation. This study examined differences in anorectal function, with particular reference to anismus, which might explain why some patients with intractable constipation have slow and others have normal whole gut transit times. Twenty-four patients were studied; 13 with slow transit (all female, median age 32 years, range 16-52 years) and 11 with normal transit (eight women, three men, median age 37 years, range 21-60 years). Videoproctography with synchronous sphincteric electromyography and anorectal manometry was performed. There were no differences between the two groups, suggesting that slow transit constipation is not secondary to any abnormality in anorectal function and may therefore be a primary disorder of colonic motility. There was no correlation between electromyographic evidence of anismus (pelvic floor contraction on defaecation) and the ability of the patient to evacute the rectum or symptoms of obstructed defaecation. Electromyography findings alone can be misleading and should be related to proctographic evidence of incomplete rectal evacuation before functional anismus can be said to be present. 
Informing schools about children's chronic illnesses: parents' opinions. Parents of 217 chronically ill children and adolescents were surveyed concerning their opinions about disclosing medical information to schools. The sample consisted of parents of more than one third of the children and adolescents meeting inclusion criteria who were seen at a university-based pediatric clinic during a 10-week period. Parents were asked (1) whether schools need information about 16 health items, (2) who in the school should know, and (3) who should provide this information. Parents' willingness to disclose information was compared with family and child demographic data. Parents strongly believed that (1) teachers need to be informed and (2) parents should be the primary informers. The consensus that schools need information did not vary with family and child demographics. However, parents of children with poor illness prognosis, greater likelihood of emergencies, and visible illnesses were more supportive of disclosure. Most parents indicated that physicians should provide information on 10 of the 16 items. Physicians were viewed as particularly appropriate informers about recognizing emergencies and medication effects. Only 21% of the parents were aware of any prior contact between the medical care giver and the school concerning their child's illness. Thus, parents want schools informed and believe physicians should be involved in providing information. 
Dipyridamole echocardiography. A new diagnostic window on coronary artery disease. Dipyridamole echocardiography testing is a highly feasible, inexpensive, and safe diagnostic tool, with excellent specificity and good sensitivity--especially in patients with multivessel disease and/or resting dyssynergy--for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. The test does not offer an "all or none" binary result but rather a complex stratification of the ischemic response along the coordinates of time and space, accurately identifying the degree of physiological impairment of coronary reserve, the severity and extent of coronary disease, the geographic location of the area at risk, and the prognostic outlook. It offers highly competitive diagnostic information versus more sophisticated, time-consuming, and costly radionuclide techniques; in comparison with other stress echocardiography techniques, it is more feasible than exercise and less invasive and better tolerated than pacing. The electrocardiogram usefully integrates the information provided by the mechanical marker of ischemia during dipyridamole testing. The finding of echocardiographically silent ST segment depression represents a clue to the identification of angiographically normal coronary arteries. On the basis of this evidence, dipyridamole testing with two-dimensional echocardiography and 12-lead electrocardiography can be considered a reasonable choice for the exercise-independent diagnosis of coronary artery disease. 
Cefixime compared with amoxicillin for treatment of acute otitis media. Cefixime was compared with amoxicillin for treatment of acute otitis media in a randomized trial. Results of tympanocentesis on day 3 to 5 of therapy were used as the major outcome. Total daily doses were 8 mg/kg of cefixime and 40 mg/kg of amoxicillin. One hundred twenty-six patients were randomly assigned to receive treatment; 64 cultures grew pathogens. Pathogens were eradicated from the middle ear after 3 to 5 days of therapy in 27 (79.4%) of 34 children given amoxicillin and 26 (86.7%) of 30 children given cefixime (p = 0.47). When Streptococcus pneumoniae cases were analyzed, bacteriologic cure occurred in 14 (93.3%) of 15 children given amoxicillin and 12 (75%) of 16 given cefixime (p = 0.333). When cases of Haemophilus influenzae infection were analyzed, significantly more cures occurred with cefixime (10/10, 100%) than amoxicillin (8/13, 62%) (p = 0.046). Pathogens associated with failure of amoxicillin therapy were H. influenzae (five cases, two beta-lactamase-positive), S. pneumoniae (one case), and Moraxella catarrhalis (one case, beta-lactamase-positive). The four failures with cefixime therapy were all in patients infected with S. pneumoniae. Rates of rash, diarrhea, and vomiting were the same in both groups and did not necessitate stopping therapy. We conclude the following: (1) Cefixime and amoxicillin were equivalent in overall clinical and bacteriologic efficacy for otitis media. (2) Cefixime was more efficacious than amoxicillin in treating H. influenzae otitis media and should be preferred when H. influenzae is the suspected etiologic agent. (3) Side effects of both drugs were mild and equivalent. 
Factors influencing postoperative urinary retention in patients undergoing elective inguinal herniorrhaphy. We retrospectively studied 295 men who had undergone herniorrhaphy under spinal or general endotracheal anesthesia to determine the incidence of postoperative urinary retention and to assess factors influencing it. The type and location of hernia had no effect on retention. In contrast, the use of general anesthesia, patient age above 53 years, and perioperative administration of more than 1,200 mL of fluid were significantly associated with an increase in retention. Our results suggest that urinary retention after herniorrhaphy may be prevented by limiting the amount of fluid given perioperatively and by using a spinal anesthetic, especially in older patients. 
Improved survival at 2 and 5 years in the LMCE1 unselected group of 72 children with stage IV neuroblastoma older than 1 year of age at diagnosis: is cure possible in a small subgroup? The objectives of this study were to determine (1) the role of selection before bone marrow transplantation (BMT), (2) the role of vincristine, melphalan, and total body irradiation (TBI) as consolidation of induction therapy for stage IV over 12 months at diagnosis, and (3) the role of immunomagnetic purging in metastatic neuroblastoma. Among 72 consecutive unselected patients, 10 were not grafted (four died at induction: two in complete remission [CR], two in partial remission [PR]); three had bone marrow progression before harvest; one had uncontrolled progression; and two had parental refusal). Sixty-two patients were grafted (23 in CR/very good PR [VGPR] and 39 in PR). Among the 62, 33 were consolidated with at least 90% excision of their initial tumor excised (53.2%), 15 with catecholamine secretions (24.2%), 22 with minor bone marrow involvement (35.5%), and 31 with positive bone scan (50%). Median observation time is 59 months. Progression-free survival (PFS) for the 10 excluded patients was 20% at 2 years and 0% at 4 years. PFS for the grafted population (n = 62) is 40% at 2 years, 20% at 4 years, and 13% at 7 years. No difference was observed between patients grafted in CR/VGPR or in PR. However, a group of 19 children was grafted resulting in complete normalization of metastasis (regardless of primary-site tumor status). In this group, PFS at 59 months was 38% with no relapses up to 7 years post-BMT. A group of 31 patients with no bone involvement at BMT was also identified. PFS at 5 years is 30% compared with 12% for bone-positive patients at BMT. Moreover, the 11 children presenting at diagnosis with no bone involvement (Evans stage IVS or stage C Memphis) and consolidated with BMT had PFS at 5 years of 50% with no late relapses. A subgroup of stage IV neuroblastoma patients older than 1 year of age at diagnosis may be curable with this therapeutic approach, and the use of multivariate analyses to search for prognostic factors is warranted in currently existing international registries. 
Implications of the uptake of 131I-radiolabelled meta-iodobenzylguanidine (mIBG) for the targeted radiotherapy of neuroblastoma. Selective uptake of radiolabelled meta-iodobenzylguanidine (mIBG) in neuroblastoma provides a possible approach to biologically targeted radiotherapy of this disease. A mathematical model was used to predict absorbed doses to tumours of varying size from therapeutic 131I-mIBG, based on measurements of 125I-mIBG uptake in surgically excised tumours from six patients. Two size categories of tumour target were considered: bulk tumour and microscopic disease. The predicted absorbed doses were compared with doses calculated to achieve a 50% probability of tumour cure. The analysis shows that the probability of tumour cure depends strongly on mIBG uptake, effective half-life of mIBG in tumour and tumour diameter. Small microtumours may be relatively resistant to mIBG treatment owing to the limited absorption of 131I beta-energy. The product of patient mass and percentage uptake per unit mass of tumour may be a useful indicator of therapeutic outcome when targeted radiotherapy is used for the treatment of paediatric tumours. 
Transcranial magnetic stimulation in patients with epilepsy. We studied the effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) applied in trains of 8- to 25-Hz stimuli on electroencephalographic epileptiform activity on eight patients being evaluated for epilepsy surgery. We performed the stimulation with a round water-cooled stimulation coil held flat on the scalp and centered over different positions of the International 10-20 System. We were unable to trigger seizures or induce epileptiform discharges arising from the epileptic focus in any of the eight patients with any of the stimulation protocols. However, we induced a partial motor seizure from the contralateral hemisphere to the exclusive temporal focus in the only patient stimulated with 100% maximal intensity. Precautions have to be taken when applying rapid TMS to patients because of the risk of seizure induction. Our results do not support the view that TMS specifically activates the epileptic foci. 
Venous gangrene (phlegmasia caerulea dolens) complicating heart failure from severe mitral stenosis--a case history. Gangrene of the left upper limb was found to complicate severe mitral stenosis presenting with heart failure in a sixty-eight-year-old woman with a documented left atrial thrombus. Arterial obstruction as the cause of gangrene was excluded by Doppler-assisted assessment of the peripheral pulses. Venous gangrene can complicate severe mitral stenosis and must be distinguished from arterial embolization, in which urgent surgical treatment is imperative. 
Heterotopic heart transplantation and native heart ventricular arrhythmias. Heterotopic heart transplantation has been said to be contraindicated in patients with serious native heart arrhythmias that produce hemodynamic instability. Placement of heterotopic allografts, however, can theoretically act as a biological biventricular assist device to provide hemodynamic support during these unstable rhythms. Further, this operation might beneficially alter the hemodynamic milieu of heart failure such that the arrhythmias are ameliorated. Described is our experience with 4 patients with heart failure receiving heterotopic cardiac allografts, documenting changes in native heart arrhythmia that occurred. These cases demonstrate that heterotopic grafts can adequately sustain hemodynamics during malignant native heart dysrhythmia. We believe native heart ventricular arrhythmias are not a contraindication to heterotopic heart transplantation. 
Transperineurial vessel constriction in an edematous neuropathy. The hypothesis that the accumulation of endoneurial edema can exert forces sufficient to occlude transperineurial vessels was tested using light microscopy and computer-assisted morphometry in rat sciatic nerve. Experimental nerves were exposed to a concentration of 10% procaine HCl, which from previous studies has been demonstrated to routinely produce an edematous neuropathy. For each vessel, a "constriction ratio" was defined by dividing its minimum intraperineurial lumen area by the average for minimum endoneurial and epineurial lumen cross-sectional areas. Constriction ratios were 0.91 +/- 0.26 (mean +/- SD) for control vessels and 0.28 +/- 0.25 for vessels in the procaine group (p less than 0.005). In addition, a strong negative correlation was observed between the morphologic demonstration of nerve edema and the transperineurial vessel constriction ratio (r = -0.85; p less than 0.002). It is concluded that in neuropathies characterized by widespread edema and increased endoneurial fluid pressures, the concomitant constriction of transperineurial vessels could diminish nerve blood flow and facilitate nerve injury. 
The role of radical surgery in the management of radiation recurrent and large volume prostate cancer. Twenty-two patients seen between 1975 and 1988 were analyzed who had surgical attempts to cure locally advanced prostate cancer by exenterative procedures or salvage surgery for radiation recurrent disease. Twelve patients (Group I) underwent either a salvage cystoprostatectomy or perineal prostatectomy for radiorecurrent disease, including three patients with a Kock continent urinary diversion done in combination with the salvage operation. Five of the 12 (41.7%) recurrent disease confined to the surgical specimen and 11 of 12 (91.7%) are alive at a mean follow-up of 49 months, including four patients (25%) with a completely negative serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) value (less than 0.2 ng/dl). All perineal prostatectomy patients are continent, and two of the three Kock pouch patients are continent. Ten of the 22 patients (Group II) had a cystoprostatectomy or exenteration for locally advanced disease that the surgeon did not think was amenable to standard radical prostatectomy. Only one of these ten patients had negative surgical margins, capsule, and seminal vesicles. Nine are alive (although only one patient has no evidence of disease) at a mean follow-up of 59 months. Morbidity was substantial with a 50% major complication rate including four patients requiring reoperation because of bleeding, abscess, bowel obstruction, or colostomy closure. Salvage procedures for radiorecurrent disease can be done safely, even with the inclusion of a continent diversion, and may be curative or provide survival benefit to carefully selected patients. Cystoprostatectomy or exenteration for locally advanced disease does not appear to be a curative endeavor for most patients and may be accompanied by significant morbidity. 
Full-field electroretinograms in patients with the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome. We examined five patients who had carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome with full-field electroretinograms. Only two of the patients showed fundus changes typical for retinitis pigmentosa, whereas abnormal electroretinograms were seen in all patients. There was no recordable rod response; however, a delay in the cone b-wave implicit time was noted. All patients had nyctalopia. These observations suggest that patients with the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome have a progressive tapetoretinal degenerative disorder of the retinitis pigmentosa type with defined alterations in the electroretinogram. 
Treatment of adenomyosis with long-term GnRH analogues: a case report. Presented here is the first reported case of biopsy-proved adenomyosis treated medically with long-term GnRH analogue. Uterine volume, as calculated by serial ultrasound measurements, was reduced by 65% after 4 months and remained small several months after discontinuation of therapy. Size reduction was accompanied by amenorrhea and relief of severe dysmenorrhea. Though not proposed as a substitute for surgery, GnRH analogue may be useful as a surgical adjuvant or for temporary reduction of symptoms. 
The representation of the visual field in human striate cortex. A revision of the classic Holmes map. We have tested the accuracy of Gordon Holmes' retinotopic map of human striate cortex by correlating magnetic resonance scans with homonymous field defects in patients with clearly defined occipital lobe lesions. Our findings indicate that Holmes underestimated the cortical magnification of central vision. In a revised map of the human striate cortex, we expand the area subserving central vision and reduce the area devoted to peripheral vision. These changes bring the map of human striate cortex into agreement with data reported for closely related nonhuman primate species. 
Equivalent total doses for different fractionation schemes, based on the linear quadratic model. A majority of patients receiving radical radiation therapy are treated with 1.8-2.0-Gy fractions, a dose that has evolved from clinical experience. However, other fractionation schemes can be advantageous. When fractionation is altered, the total dose prescribed should lead to equivalent or higher tumor control with the same or less tissue toxicity. To facilitate the use of different fractionation schemes, the authors compiled tables for equivalent biologic doses for late toxicity in normal tissues and tumoricidal doses for epithelial tumors, for various fraction sizes. The linear quadratic model according to Fowler was used. It is shown how these tables should be modified for proliferation of tumors during the course of radiation therapy. The tables make the use of different fractionation schemes easy. They also allow adjustment of total dose if fractionation needs to be changed during the course of treatment. 
Myocardial echinococcosis with perforation into the pericardium. Though rare, cardiac echinococcosis should be included in the differential diagnosis of cardiac tumors, particularly in patients originating from endemic areas or with manifestation of hydatid disease in other organs. Diagnosis and localisation of the cysts is best accomplished with non-invasive methods such as 2-D transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography, computed tomography and NMR. Excision of the cardiac cyst from the interventricular septum in a 21 year old patient with polyvisceral echinococcosis was performed with cardiopulmonary bypass. Adjunctive medical therapy with mebendazol is being continued for 24 months postoperatively. Twelve months after surgery the patient is asymptomatic without echocardiographic signs of recurrence. 
Gastro-oesophageal reflux and respiratory function in infants with respiratory symptoms. This study aimed to define the incidence and severity of gastro-oesophageal reflux (GOR), as measured using 24 hour oesophageal pH monitoring, in 38 infants with recurrent respiratory symptoms and to relate these findings to measures of respiratory function. Twenty one infants had a pH under 4 for more than 5% of the time (one definition of abnormal GOR) and nine had GOR exceeding age related normal values. Maximum expiratory flow at functional residual capacity was reduced in 37 infants, airways resistance was raised in 19 infants, and thoracic gas volume was abnormal in 11 infants. There was no association between indices of GOR and measures of lung function whether assessed by correlation or by chi 2 analysis for normal versus abnormal values. However, individual infants appeared to have respiratory symptoms produced by GOR. This suggests that host responsiveness to GOR may be of greater relevance than the amount of GOR. 
Results of the pelvic-pouch procedure in patients with Crohn's disease. The pelvic-pouch procedure has become a standard operation for selected patients with ulcerative colitis, but is contraindicated in patients with Crohn's disease at our institution. However, the distinction between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's colitis can sometimes be difficult, if not impossible. Between January 1982, and March 1989, 272 patients with ulcerative colitis underwent pelvic-pouch procedures at our institution. Nine (3.5 percent) of these patients eventually were found to have Crohn's disease. The records of these patients were examined to assess their clinical outcome and complication rate. There were five females and four males with a mean age of 28.8 years. In five patients (Group I) the diagnosis of Crohn's disease was made postoperatively on histologic examination of the rectum. The ileostomy was closed in all patients. Two developed complications necessitating excision of the pouch. Three patients are well. In the other four cases (Group II) the mean time to diagnosis was 2.5 years after the pouch procedure. Three patients developed pouch-vaginal fistula, and one multiple anal fissures and stenosis. Two required excision of the pouch whereas two have a functioning pouch but with a persistent pouch-vaginal fistula (n = 1) or anal fissures (n = 1). Overall, four patients have had their pouches removed, and five patients have functioning pouches: three with no complications and two with persistent perianal disease. Thus, we would conclude that the pelvic-pouch procedure should not knowingly be performed in patients with Crohn's disease because of the high associated complication rate. 
Identification of colon cancer-predisposed individuals: a cytogenetic analysis. Peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures from 23 individuals with polyps and 10 age-matched controls were cytogenetically studied. Of 23 individuals with polyps, 13 were males and 10 females. The age distribution of these patients was between 22 and 84 yr, with a medium age of 49.6 yr. Chromosome 5 was involved in structural rearrangements in 10 of the 18 patients with adenomatous polyps (55.5%). All those who showed involvement of chromosome 5 alterations had either adenomatous polyps or Gardner's syndrome, and two had colon adenocarcinoma. Of the remainder who did not show involvement of chromosome 5, eight had adenomatous polyps and five had hyerplastic polyps (non-neoplastic). Of the 10 control samples, only one showed alteration of chromosome 5. Of the 10 adenomatous polyp subjects that showed chromosome 5 defects, two had translocations of chromosome 5 and the short arm of 17. Chromosome 5 was broken 13 times (5 times in the q arm and 8 times in the p arm). Based on our present cytogenetic data, we tentatively conclude that lymphocyte metaphases may be used to identify colon cancer-predisposed individuals. 
AIDS-associated non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is associated with HIV infection. We investigated the epidemiology and aetiology of AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma by analysing data from cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, USA, up to June 30, 1989. During this period 97,258 AIDS cases were reported, of whom 2824 (2.9%) had non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The condition was about 60 times more common in AIDS patients than in the general US population. 1686 cases were immunoblastic lymphoma, 548 primary lymphoma of the brain, and 590 Burkitt's lymphoma, a condition which is not normally associated with immunosuppression. The proportion of AIDS patients with immunoblastic lymphoma increased from 0% in those under 1 year old to 3.5% in those aged 50 or more. Primary lymphoma of the brain was constant at 0.6% for all ages. The frequency of Burkitt's lymphoma increased from zero in infants to a peak at 10-19 years of age (1.8%). Each type of lymphoma was twice as common in whites as in blacks and in men as in women. Lymphoma was most common in patients with haemophilia or clotting disorders and least common in those born in the Caribbean or Africa who had acquired HIV by heterosexual contact. Epidemiological data suggested that whilst infectious agents (eg, Epstein-Barr virus) may be associated with development of non-Hodgkin lymphomas in AIDS patients there was probably no single cause for all the types of lymphoma. Perhaps the most puzzling question is why Burkitt's lymphoma is commonly associated with HIV infection but not with other types of immunosuppression. 
Inhaled nitric oxide. A selective pulmonary vasodilator reversing hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction. BACKGROUND. We examined the effects of inhalation of 5-80 ppm nitric oxide (NO) gas on the normal and acutely constricted pulmonary circulation in awake lambs. METHODS AND RESULTS. Spontaneous breathing of nitric oxide (an endothelium-derived relaxing factor) at 40 ppm or more reversed acute pulmonary vasoconstriction within 3 minutes either because of infusion of the stable thromboxane endoperoxide analogue U46619 or because of pulmonary hypertension due to breathing a hypoxic gas mixture. Systemic vasodilation did not occur. Pulmonary vasodilation by NO inhalation was produced during infusion of U46619 for periods of 1 hour without observing evidence of short-term tolerance. Pulmonary hypertension resumed within 3-6 minutes of ceasing NO inhalation. In the normal lamb, the pulmonary vascular resistance, systemic vascular resistance, cardiac output, left atrial and central venous pressures were unaltered by NO inhalation. CONCLUSION. Breathing 80 ppm NO for 3 hours did not increase either methemoglobin or extravascular lung water levels or modify lung histology compared with those in control lambs. 
Diagnosis and treatment of headache in the elderly. The diagnosis and management of some causes of headache in the elderly are reviewed. Etiologic theories have been presented for each condition. Treatment modalities include pharmacologic, nonpharmacologic, and surgical therapies. The treatment course set forth in this article can help the clinician provide proper relief for the patient in pain. 
Failure of MR imaging to detect reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities. Reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities is a disease with a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations. It is characterized by pain, hyperthermia, and cutaneous changes and has been linked to an abnormality of regional blood flow. The disease is associated with previous injury or trauma including surgery, but also has been found in association with myocardial infarctions and tumors. The final diagnosis can be made only on the basis of the clinical course, which is characterized either by regression without sequel or the appearance of aponeurotic and tendinous retractions including bony sclerosis in the affected region occurring over many months to years. The literature and our own results show that MR imaging has high sensitivity for diagnosing transient osteoporosis of the hip, which is generally thought to be a form of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. Therefore we investigated the usefulness of MR imaging for diagnosing sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities. Twenty-five patients underwent T1- and T2-weighted MR imaging of the affected body region. They were selected on the basis of the initial clinical findings and positive findings on scintigraphy, which is known to be a sensitive, but not very specific, imaging method for sympathetic dystrophy. The final diagnosis was established on the basis of the clinical course in 17 of the 25 patients. In 10 of these, findings on MR images were completely normal, in six the MR images showed only nonspecific soft-tissue changes or bone marrow sclerosis, and in one patient they showed changes in bone marrow signal. Of the remaining eight patients without a final diagnosis of sympathetic dystrophy, MR showed soft-tissue or bone marrow alterations in six. MR imaging appears to be of little value in establishing the diagnosis of sympathetic dystrophy, but it may improve diagnostic specificity when used in conjunction with scintigraphy. 
Endoscopic sinus surgery: outcome in 155 cases. For this retrospective study of endoscopic sinus surgery, charts of 22 patients from a medical center and 133 patients from a private practice (N = 155) were reviewed. Preoperative complaints, clinical findings, computed tomographic evidence of extent of sinus disease, surgical outcome, possible predictors of success, and complications were considered. Indications for endoscopic surgery were persistence of symptoms despite aggressive medical therapy and radiologic evidence of a significant sinus abnormality. Median followup was 12 months. Hemorrhage occurred postoperatively in two patients (1.5%); 17 patients required additional endoscopic surgery. Overall, 140 (91%) patients believed that the surgery was beneficial. Patients with facial pain preoperatively showed the greatest improvement. All patients having simultaneous septoplasty (N = 64) had successful outcome. The total number of opacified sinuses was not a predictor of outcome, but opacificaiton of the sphenoid sinus correlated with a poorer outcome. The patients seen at the medical center had poorer results, but had a larger number of opacified sinuses, were more likely to have had previous sinus surgery, and were more likely to have underlying medical conditions contributing to their sinus disease. 
Experience with 225 hepatic resections for hepatocellular carcinoma over a 4-year period. During the past 4 1/2 years, we have performed hepatic resection on 225 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). These patients included 171 men and 54 women, whose ages ranged from 29 to 84 years with an average of 60 years. Underlying cirrhosis of the liver was found in 67% of the patients and chronic hepatitis in 27%. Patients undergoing hepatic resection were classified into five groups according to curability as follows: Group A, resection of the tumor-bearing segment and one additional segment; Group B, complete resection of the tumor with more than 1.0 cm free surgical margin; Group C, complete resection of the tumor with less than 1.0 cm free surgical margin; Group D, incomplete resection of the tumor; Group E, surgical approach for advanced HCC with tumor thrombi in the main trunk or the first branch of the portal vein and/or the inferior vena cava, with multiple daughter nodules in both lobes and with tumor recurrence. The number of patients in Groups A, B, C, D, and E was 12 (5%), 83 (37%), 58 (26%), 14 (6%) and 58, (26%), respectively. There were 4 deaths (2.4%) among the 167 patients in Groups A to D within 30 days after operation and 12 deaths (20.7%) in Group E. The 3-year survival rate of Groups A, B, C, D, and E was 100%, 74%, 21%, 0%, and 35%, respectively. 
Altered antigen receptor signaling in anergic T cells from self-tolerant T-cell receptor beta-chain transgenic mice. T-cell tolerance to the minor lymphocyte-stimulating antigen Mls-1a in a T-cell receptor (TcR) V beta 8.1 transgenic line of mice is maintained by both clonal deletion and clonal anergy. Approximately 20-50% of peripheral CD4+ (but not CD8+) T cells isolated from these mice are anergic and fail to proliferate following TcR ligation. We have examined key events in T-cell signaling in peripheral T cells isolated from these mice. In this report, we show that the anergic CD4+ T cells did not mobilize calcium or express receptors for interleukin 2 (IL-2) following TcR ligation. However, the cells retained viability and functional potential because stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin bypassed the block in receptor-mediated signaling and induced IL-2 receptor expression and proliferation of the anergic cells. 
Reducing postischemic paraplegia using conjugated superoxide dismutase. Paraplegia after thoracic aortic aneurysm repair has an incidence of 2.2% to 24%. Oxygen-derived free radicals after reperfusion of an ischemic spinal cord may be partly responsible for neuronal destruction. We studied the effects of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD), a free radical scavenger, as a way of increasing spinal cord tolerance to ischemia. Thirty rabbits underwent 40 minutes of aortic occlusion (a known model of paraplegia). Ten of these animals received 25,000 U/kg of PEG-SOD 24 hours before aortic occlusion and two additional doses of 10,000 U/kg, one before and one subsequent to spinal ischemia. Ten animals received superoxide dismutase in the same dosages as those receiving PEG-SOD. Ten control animals received placebo. All animals were studied for 96 hours, at which time a final neurological examination was performed and the results were recorded. Of the 10 animals treated with PEG-SOD, 2 were completely paralyzed whereas 8 had less (7) or no (1) neurological impairment. Eight of the 10 control animals and 9 of the 10 animals receiving superoxide dismutase were completely paralyzed. None of the control animals or animals receiving superoxide dismutase had a normal neurological examination (p less than or equal to 0.05). Treatment with PEG-SOD before and during occlusion increased the rabbit spinal cord tolerance to a 40-minute ischemic insult. Scavenging free radicals may lessen experimental spinal cord injury. 
Infusional carboplatin. Phase I studies of 5-day and 14-day infusions. Twenty-two courses of carboplatin (Paraplatin; Bristol-Meyers, Evansville, IN) (CBDCA) were administered to 15 patients with advanced cancer on a continuous 24-hour per day infusion schedule for either 5 days or 14 days. The objective of the trial was to establish the optimal dose rate and cumulative dose for this treatment schedule. The dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression, with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia observed. The optimal dose rate for the 5-day infusion was 75 mg/m2/d or a total cumulative dose of 375 mg/m2/d. The optimal dose rate for the 14-day infusion was 25 mg/m2/d or a total cumulative dose of 350 mg/m2/d. The times to nadir levels of leukocyte and platelet counts were 34 days and 25 days, respectively, with a median time to recovery of 14 days and 7 days, respectively, in patients with Grade 3 or greater marrow suppression. The pattern of hematologic toxicity with infusional CBDCA is comparable to that seen with bolus schedules. There is, therefore, no clinical advantage of the infusional schedule for CBDCA in terms of toxicity and the dose delivered per cycle, and the dose intensity is slightly less than with a bolus schedule. If there is a therapeutic advantage for the infusional schedule, a prospective comparative trial against the standard bolus schedule will be required to establish it. Bolus and infusional schedules for CBDCA are associated with a delayed pattern of thrombocytopenia and prolonged leukopenia, necessitating 5 or more weeks between treatment cycles. 
Selective gene expression in failing human heart. Quantification of steady-state levels of messenger RNA in endomyocardial biopsies using the polymerase chain reaction. BACKGROUND. Evaluation of gene expression in failing human heart has been limited by the availability of cardiac tissue. METHODS AND RESULTS. We used the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to assess gene expression in small quantities of failing and nonfailing human heart. PCR is a powerful new molecular biological tool that allows a small quantity of DNA to be amplified as much as 1 million-fold. Total RNA was extracted from 3-5 mg samples of human heart and reverse-transcribed to complementary DNA (cDNA). With selected oligonucleotide primers, we used PCR to amplify cDNAs encoding atrial natriuretic peptide, beta-myosin heavy chain, phospholamban, and cytoskeletal beta-actin. To quantify the relative levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) in human heart, a known amount of a control RNA was present in the reverse transcription and PCR reactions. The amount of mRNA in the sample could therefore be assessed in relation to the amount of control product. The control RNA was transcribed from a synthetic DNA template containing primers complementary to those used to amplify the cDNAs of interest. Atrial natriuretic factor mRNA could not be detected in nonfailing human heart but was abundant in ventricular myocardium from failing human heart. In contrast, steady-state levels of phospholamban mRNA decreased, whereas levels of beta-myosin heavy-chain mRNA were unchanged with heart failure. CONCLUSIONS. Alterations in gene expression in the failing human heart appear to be selective. In addition, the present study suggests that PCR provides a rapid and economical way to quantify the expression of multiple genes of interest in endomyocardial biopsy specimens and may therefore be used to advance our understanding of heart muscle disease. 
Iatrogenic pneumomediastinum after endodontic therapy. An unusual case of pneumomediastinum caused by subcutaneous emphysema occurring after the use of hydrogen peroxide solution during root canal treatment is described in a 30-year-old man. A thorough search of the available literature failed to reveal similar cases. A review of the literature, including pathogenesis, clinical and radiographic features, and management of this condition, is presented. 
Surgical versus percutaneous drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses. The records of 83 patients with intra-abdominal abscesses treated between 1986 and 1990 were reviewed to determine if there were significant differences in the outcome of patients treated by surgical drainage (n = 41) or percutaneous drainage (n = 42). The two groups were matched for age, abscess location, and etiology. Parametric statistical evaluations included the Student's t test as well as analysis of variance; nonparametric statistics used were chi-square and Wilcoxon rank sums. No significant difference was found in mortality (surgical 14% versus percutaneous 12%) or morbidity (surgical 26% versus percutaneous 29%). The duration of hospital stay was similar. Although there was no significant difference between the two groups in severity of illness as measured by APACHE II scores, these scores were significant in determining prognosis. APACHE II scores were significantly higher in non-survivors of both groups (23 versus 13) and also higher in those developing complications. A subgroup of patients with diverticular abscess was identified in whom percutaneous drainage enabled later resection with primary anastomosis without complication. This study indicates that percutaneous drainage of an intra-abdominal abscess is as efficacious as surgical drainage and that APACHE II scores are prognostic of both potential mortality and morbidity. 
Childhood haemangiomas of the head and neck. Haemangiomas of the head and neck in children may be of several histological types, the clinical course depending on the group to which the haemangioma belongs. Treatment may be required if the haemangioma interferes with the airway, as in the subglottic group, or if the lesion becomes ulcerated with subsequent haemorrhage, as in capillary cavernous haemangiomas. Most haemangiomas require no immediate treatment as they involute spontaneously, though parental reassurance will be of paramount importance. Those lesions which persist may be amenable to treatment at a later date, the laser probably offering the best long-term results in terms of cosmesis as in the case of port-wine stains. Superselective embolization is becoming the treatment of choice for arterial haemangiomas. This paper is designed to clarify the histological and clinical features of these tumours and their management in view of considerable confusion in the literature encountered in our study. 
Resolution of microsporidial epithelial keratopathy in a patient with AIDS. A patient with a positive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) titer and cryptococcal meningitis suffered bilateral epithelial keratopathy caused by Encephalitozoon, which did not respond to sulfas, erythromycin, bacitracin, tobramycin, neomycin, polymyxin B, or fluconazole. Eventual administration of itraconazole for the meningitis apparently produced resolution of the long-lasting (2-month) ocular infection. This new oral triazole antifungal may be valuable against the increasingly prevalent microsporidial infections in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Debulking of the infection by corneal scraping may have contributed to the authors' success. 
Epidemiology of chronic venous ulcers. A metropolitan population of 238,000 in Perth, Western Australia, was screened for chronic ulceration of the leg. Patients with a chronic leg ulcer and a venous abnormality comprised 57 per cent of all patients with a chronic leg ulcer, giving a prevalence of 0.62 per 1000 population. There was an increasing prevalence with age; 90 per cent of patients were 60 years and older. This group comprised 16.7 per cent of the population, and had a prevalence of 3.3 per 1000. Although chronic venous ulcers were more common in women there was no difference in age related prevalence. In 36 per cent of patients with a venous abnormality, there was at least one other aetiological factor contributing to chronic ulceration of the leg; 96 per cent had either a history of deep venous thrombosis or a condition known to predispose to deep venous thrombosis. 
Biliary pancreatitis. Operative outcome with a selective approach. To evaluate the efficacy of a selective approach to biliary pancreatitis, we reviewed the outcomes in 276 consecutive patients undergoing operations for this diagnosis during a 7-year period. Initial conservative therapy resulted in elective operations in 63% and urgent operations in 37%. Only 10 patients (3.6%) required primary pancreatic operations, 50% of them as emergencies. The proportion of common duct surgical explorations fell from 70% of those operated immediately after hospital admission to 20% by the third hospital day. Overall mortality was 1.8% but was increased to 30% in patients having an initial pancreatic operation. We conclude that a selective approach to biliary pancreatitis allows the operation to be performed electively in most patients and is associated with a low mortality and an acceptable length of stay. Most common duct stones pass spontaneously permitting cholecystectomy alone. 
Diagnosing and managing oral lichen planus. Lichen planus is a chronic and recurrent inflammatory disease characterized by unpredictable exacerbations and remissions. It affects the skin and/or mucous membrane in nearly 2 percent of the adult population. The symptoms are transient, but clinical evidence of oral disease is more persistent. 
Induction of transformational changes in normal endothelial cells by cultured human astrocytoma cells. Endothelial cell proliferation is a significant biological feature of malignant astrocytomas. The ability of the cells of these tumors to elaborate mitogenic angiogenesis factors has been well documented. However, less is known about the transformational effects that neoplastic astrocytes may have on the endothelial cells within malignant astrocytomas. In this study, the hypothesis that humoral factors elaborated by cells derived from malignant astrocytomas induce transformational changes in normal endothelial cells in vitro is investigated. Conditioned medium (CM) was prepared from exponentially growing cultures of a human glioblastoma cell line (UW18) and from two rat brain-tumor cell lines: an anaplastic astrocytoma (R175A) and a glioblastoma with sarcomatous elements (9L). Subconfluent target bovine aortic arch endothelial cells (BAEC's) were exposed for 48 hours to varying concentrations of CM prepared from each of these tumors, and then evaluated for transformational changes. Different molecular weight (MW) fractions of UW18 CM were prepared by molecular ultrafiltration, and each fraction was tested for transforming activity. Transformation endpoints included changes in cellular deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) content and distribution (measured by differential flow cytometry) and changes in de novo DNA synthesis determined by 3H-thymidine incorporation. Significant changes in the amount and distribution of DNA and RNA were observed in the BAEC's treated with UW18 CM compared to untreated BAEC's. At 10% concentrations of UW18 CM, changes in the RNA profile of target BAEC's were evident, and at 30% concentrations of UW18 CM, an irregular bimodal distribution was well established. Patterns of DNA were also altered in a concentration-dependent manner, with significant aneuploidy developing at UW18 CM concentrations of 20%. The DNA synthesis in BAEC's increased with increasing CM concentrations, up to a maximum of about 250% of control values at 30% concentrations of UW18 CM. The transformational changes induced after exposure of BAEC's to CM prepared from R175A and 9L were significantly less than those observed with UW18 CM. Molecular ultrafiltration was used to prepare UW18 CM fractions with MW cutoffs of less than 10 kD, 10 to 30 kD, and greater than 30 kD. Transformational activity was significant only in CM's with an MW of 10 to 30 kD. It is concluded that the UW18 human glioblastoma cell line elaborates a soluble factor, or group of factors, with an MW in the 10- to 30-kD range, capable of inducing transformational alterations in target normal endothelial cells, and that such transformation may account for some of the abnormal endothelial cell changes associated with malignant astrocytomas. 
Clinical decision making of critical care nurses managing computer-simulated tachydysrhythmias. The purposes of this study were to describe the clinical decision making of critical care nurses managing computer-simulated tachydysrhythmias and to assess the major sources of error related to the management of two tachydysrhythmias: atrial flutter and ventricular tachycardia. In this descriptive study, 142 critical care nurses each completed four computerized clinical simulations (two atrial flutter and two ventricular tachycardia). Simulation performance was measured by proficiency score (comparison with expert performance), patient outcome (cure or die), and amount of data collected before the first intervention. Mean proficiency scores were 51% for atrial flutter and 35% for ventricular tachycardia. Thirteen percent of the atrial flutter and 35% of the ventricular tachycardia simulations ended in patient death. Failure to recognize ventricular tachycardia and unfamiliarity with second- and third-line treatments were major sources of error. Medication errors were the cause of death in 87% of the simulations ending in patient death. These results document the need for emphasis on dysrhythmia management in the critical care curriculum. 
Homologous desensitization of the insulinotropic glucagon-like peptide-I (7-37) receptor on insulinoma (HIT-T15) cells. Glucagon-like peptide-I(7-37) [GLP-I(7-37)] is an intestinal peptide with potent insulinotropic activities on pancreatic beta-cells in vivo and in vitro. In earlier studies elevated concentrations GLP-I(7-37) inhibited insulin release and cAMP generation in beta-cells. We now show that the GLP-I(7-37) receptor in the glucose-responsive B-cell line HIT-T15 undergoes rapid and reversible homologous desensitization in response to supraphysiological concentrations of GLP-I(7-37). GLP-I(7-37) stimulated insulin release and cAMP generation in a glucose-dependent biphasic manner with a maximum stimulation at 10 nmol/liter. The first-phase insulin secretory response was reduced by 41% at doses of GLP-I(7-37) of 100 nmol/liter and higher. Preperifusion of B-cells with 100 nmol/liter GLP-I(7-37) for 5 or 10 min reduced a subsequent insulin secretory response to 10 nmol/liter GLP-I(7-37) after hormone washout and recovery periods of 10 min (52% and 55% reduction) or 30 min (33% reduction or full recovery). Preperifusion of HIT-T15 cells with 100 nmol/liter glucagon (10 min) or 100 nmol/liter gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP) (10 min) had no effect on the insulin secretory response to 10 nmol/liter GLP-(7-37). Prior exposure of cells to 100 nmol/liter GLP-(7-37) (10 min) did not alter the GIP-induced (10 nmol/liter) insulin release, but 100 nmol/liter GIP (10 min) reduced the insulin secretion during stimulation with 10 nmol/liter GIP by 56%. These data indicate that: 1) the GLP-I(7-37) receptor is subject to rapid and reversible homologous desensitization and, 2) the GLP-I(7-37) receptor on beta-cells is distinct from that of GIP. The recent finding of elevated GLP-I(7-36)amide levels in subjects with noninsulin-dependent diabetes suggest the possibility that a homologous desensitization of the GLP-I(7-37) receptor might contribute to the impaired insulin secretion in this disorder. 
The interaction of vasodilating drugs and sympathetic blockade in normal and ischemic canine hindlimbs. The purpose of this study was to determine if intraarterial vasodilating drugs could augment the vasodilation produced by sympathetic blockade, such as occurs during epidural anesthesia. Papaverine (2 mg/min), nitroglycerin (1 microgram/kg/min), aand saline were infused into the femoral artery before and after lumbar sympathectomy in six arterially isolated canine hindlimbs. Femoral blood flow was controlled with a perfusion circuit at baseline (80 ml/min), half-baseline (40 ml/min), and low (5 ml/min) flow rates so that hindlimb mean arterial pressure served as an index of peripheral vasodilation. At low flow, hindlimb arteriovenous oxygen content difference increased from 1.4 (baseline) to 6.2 ml O2/dl, consistent with peripheral ischemia. At baseline flow before sympathectomy, papaverine and nitroglycerin caused a decrease in hindlimb mean arterial pressure of 30% and 18%, respectively (p less than 0.01 vs saline control), equivalent to the decreases of 31% and 16% after sympathectomy (p less than 0.01). At half-baseline, papaverine and nitroglycerin reduced hindlimb mean arterial pressure by 22% and 12%, respectively (p less than 0.01), and caused comparable vasodilation after sympathectomy. Neither drug significantly changed hindlimb mean arterial pressure at low flow. Sympathectomy itself reduced hindlimb mean arterial pressure by 23% at baseline flow (p less than 0.01), by 18% at half-baseline flow (p less than 0.01), but had no effect at low flow. We conclude that intraarterial papaverine and nitroglycerin cause peripheral vasodilation that is synergistic with sympathectomy-induced adrenergic blockade, but they cannot augment vasodilation caused by peripheral ischemia. 
Positive and negative exercise test results with and without exercise-induced angina in patients with one healed myocardial infarction: analysis of baseline variables and long-term prognosis. The prognostic implications of exercise test results with and without exercised-induced angina are not completely understood. In the Program On the Surgical Control Of the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH), 838 subjects with hyperlipidemia who had one healed myocardial infarction were studied and followed for 6 to 13 years (mean 8.6). Of the 417 control subjects, 279 had a treadmill exercise test result that was definitely positive or negative. Angina was also induced by exercise in 30% (45/150) and 8% (10/129) of those with a positive and a negative test result, respectively (p less than 0.0001). The data showed no difference between subjects with a positive or a negative test result with or without angina as regards levels of blood lipids, type of myocardial infarction (Q or non-Q wave), left ventricular function, or prognosis as defined by death, atherosclerotic coronary heart disease death, or myocardial infarction. 
Prostatic occurrence of transitional cell carcinoma after intravesical chemotherapy. Thirteen patients with Stage Tis, Ta, or T1 transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder treated by transurethral resections and intravesical chemotherapy developed TCC of the prostate. Among the 13 cases, cytology specimens were obtained from 10 at the time prostatic disease was diagnosed; 9 demonstrated TCC. One was treated successfully by transurethral resection of a Ta lesion involving the prostatic urethra only. One of 2 patients declining radical surgery is alive with residual disease at twenty-four months, and the other died of progressive disease at nineteen months. Of the 10 patients who underwent radical cystoprostatectomy, 7 are alive with no evidence of disease eight to forty-two months postoperatively, with 2 of these 7 having received 4 courses of systemic methotrexate, vincristine, Adriamycin, and cisplatinum (MVAC) for metastatic disease. Two of the 10 died of metastatic disease six and thirteen months postoperatively, and one frail patient died of surgical complications. When treating patients with intravesical chemotherapy for superficial TCC, biopsy of the prostate should be done during follow-up examinations, especially in the presence of cytologic or palpable prostatic abnormalities. 
Gene transfer into vascular cells. The goal of gene therapy is to introduce foreign deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) into somatic cells to correct or prevent disorders caused by the malfunction of genes within a diseased individual. Overexpression of recombinant genes at specific sites within the vasculature can provide insights into vascular biology and potential treatments for various cardiovascular disorders such as restenosis. Methods for the introduction of foreign DNA into endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells have been developed recently. These include the genetic modification of endothelium in vitro and implantation in vivo on arterial segments, direct infection of the arterial wall in vivo with a replication-defective retroviral vector expressing a recombinant gene and direct transfer of genes into vascular cells in vivo with use of liposomes. Although still in its formative stages, gene transfer into the vasculature holds promise as a potential treatment for vascular diseases, including atherosclerosis and restenosis. This approach may also provide insight into the role of specific gene products in the development of pathologic lesions. 
Prospective blinded trial of the colonoscopic miss-rate of large colorectal polyps. We prospectively studied the colonoscopic miss-rate of large colorectal polyps in a blinded trial featuring tandem colonoscopy. Sixty-three lesions greater than or equal to 1 cm in size were discovered and none were missed. Confidence intervals of 95% are a miss-rate of 0 to 4.6%. We conclude that less than 5% of large colorectal polyps are missed during the index colonoscopic examination in a well-prepared colon. 
Acalculous biliary pain: cholecystectomy alleviates symptoms in patients with abnormal cholescintigraphy. A 45-minute infusion of an octapeptide of cholecystokinin (Kinevac; Squibb Diagnostics, New Brunswick, NJ) was used to measure the gallbladder ejection fraction during cholescintigraphy in 40 normal volunteers. Cholecystokinin cholescintigraphy was shown to be a reproducible test. The maximum mean gallbladder ejection fraction occurred 15 minutes after cholecystokinin infusion and was 74.5% +/- 1.9% (mean +/- SEM). A gallbladder ejection fraction greater than 40% (mean -3SD) was arbitrarily defined to be normal. The gallbladder ejection fraction test was then used to identify patients with acalculous biliary symptoms who may respond to cholecystectomy. A total of 103 patients was tested; 21 had abnormal gallbladder ejection fractions and were randomized into two groups, cholecystectomy or no operation. These patients were followed up symptomatically at 3-month intervals for 13-54 months (mean, 34 months). Of the 11 patients who underwent cholecystectomy, 10 (91%) lost their symptoms and 1 improved. Of the 10 patients in the group that did not undergo surgery, all continued to be symptomatic, 2 of whom requested cholecystectomy after 13 and 24 months, respectively. Of the 13 gallbladders obtained from surgery, 12 showed evidence of chronic cholecystitis, muscle hypertrophy, and/or narrowed cystic duct. A normal gallbladder ejection fraction was recorded in 82 patients, and further treatment was left to the discretion of their referring clinician. On follow-up, 50 patients were asymptomatic and 10 were symptomatic without specific treatment of the biliary tract; 14 underwent cholecystectomy, 8 of whom were asymptomatic. Pathological abnormalities were recorded in 6 of the removed gallbladders. It is concluded that the gallbladder ejection fraction obtained after a 45-minute infusion of cholecystokinin during cholescintigraphy is a reproducible measure of gallbladder emptying, and that cholecystectomy alleviates the biliary-type pain of patients with a reduced gallbladder ejection fraction. 
Electroencephalogram patterns during sleep reflux in infants. Twenty-four infants, 3-35 months of age, with histories of apnea or chronic lung disease underwent nighttime polysomnography and esophageal pH monitoring. Fifteen infants had pathological levels of gastroesophageal reflux on esophageal pH monitoring, and 9 had normal study results (symptomatic controls). Partition of sleep stages, sleep efficiency, and frequency of arousals to electroencephalographic stage 0 were the same in both groups. During sleeping reflux episodes, defined as reflux starting during sleep stages 1-5 or reflux episodes consisting of greater than 50% of sleep stages 1-5, there was a 50% decrease in the amount of stage 0 electroencephalogram pattern compared with nonreflux sleep, and a compensatory increase in the non-rapid eye movement sleep stages. Reflux onsets in patients with pathological reflux were evenly divided between stages 0, 1/2, and 5. Onset of reflux occurred rarely during sleep stages 3 and 4. Slight body movement accompanied the onset of 62.5% of sleep reflux episodes in symptomatic controls and 64.7% in patients with pathological gastroesophageal reflux. Arousals to stage 0 electroencephalogram occurred with equal frequency in sleep reflux episodes of symptomatic controls and patients, and frequency did not increase over the observed value for nonreflux time. There were no differences between the sleep patterns of infants with and without pathological gastroesophageal reflux; nor were there decreases in arousals from sleep in infants with pathological reflux. However, reflux occurring during sleep in all infants studied was characterized by a significant decrease in stage 0 (waking) electroencephalogram. 
Intraoperative cardiovascular collapse secondary to latex allergy. An apparent allergic reaction has been noted in children undergoing open urological surgery. This condition is characterized by precipitous hypotension, tachycardia and upper body flushing, and it often causes termination of the procedure. Latex allergy has been identified as the possible inciting event. Contact of latex rubber gloves with intra-abdominal structures (handling bowel) appears to be the most dramatic trigger mechanism for this reaction. We report on 10 patients with latex allergy, 6 of whom have myelomeningocele, who have undergone reconstructive surgery. Severe anaphylactic shock developed intraoperatively in 5 patients and during a barium enema performed with a latex catheter in 1 patient. These 6 patients had previous allergic reactions to latex material, which was not detected preoperatively. In the remaining 4 patients latex allergy was diagnosed preoperatively. A total of 6 patients agreed to a skin prick test to liquid latex. Three patients reacted with a wheal size greater than or equal to a histamine control at a dilution of 1:1,000 and 3 patients at 1:100. In contrast, none of the 5 normal controls reacted to any of the concentrations including full strength latex. A history of exposure to latex products (balloons, surgical gloves, catheters, condoms and so forth) with allergic reactions should heighten surgeon awareness of a potentially severe intraoperative reaction. Furthermore, a skin prick test may be used to screen high risk patients such as those with myelomeningocele. A protocol involving preoperative corticosteroid and antihistamine therapy is recommended. 
Necrosis of the small intestine after resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Small bowel infarction following abdominal aortic reconstruction is extremely rare, and the prognosis remains poor. This report describes a 65-year-old man with small bowel infarction after resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. He was successfully treated with resection of the ischemic segment from the distal duodenum to the mid-small bowel and construction of a duodenoileostomy. The postoperative course was uneventful. 
Localization of HeLa cell tumor-suppressor gene to the long arm of chromosome II. Cytogenetic and molecular genetic analyses of human intraspecific HeLa x fibroblast hybrids have provided evidence for the presence of a tumor-suppressor gene(s) on chromosome 11 of normal cells. In the present study, we have carried out extensive RFLP analysis of various nontumorigenic and tumorigenic hybrids with at least 50 different chromosome 11-specific probes to determine the precise location of this tumor-suppressor gene(s). Two different hybrid systems, (1) microcell hybrids derived by the transfer of a normal chromosome 11 into a tumorigenic HeLa-derived hybrid cell and (2) somatic cell hybrids derived by the fusion of the HeLa (D98OR) cells to a retinoblastoma (Y79) cell line, were particularly informative. The analysis showed that all but one of the nontumorigenic hybrid cell lines contained a complete copy of the normal chromosome 11. This variant hybrid contained a segment of the long arm but had lost the entire short arm of the chromosome. The tumorigenic microcell and somatic cell hybrids had retained the short arm of the chromosome but had lost at least the q13-23 region of the chromosome. Thus, these results showed a perfect correlation between the presence of the long arm of chromosome 11 and the suppression of the tumorigenic phenotype. We conclude therefore that the gene(s) involved in the suppression of the HeLa cell tumors is localized to the long arm (q arm) of chromosome 11. 
Teratogenic effect of carbamazepine. A girl was born to a mother who had undergone treatment for epilepsy with carbamazepine during pregnancy. The infant had dysmorphic features and was physically and mentally retarded. We consider that the malformations were the result of the maternal treatment with carbamazepine. 
The value of estrogen and progesterone receptor determinations in advanced breast cancer. Estrogen receptor level but not progesterone receptor level correlates with response to tamoxifen. Four hundred fifteen patients with metastatic breast cancer with known hormone receptor status received primary treatment with tamoxifen. Measured values for the estrogen receptor (ER, i.e., with estrogen binding) followed a continuous distribution (range, 3 to 1000 fmol/mg of protein). These values correlated positively with age. The response to treatment with tamoxifen correlated with the ER level, with response rates of approximately 80% when the ER level was greater than 30.1 fmol/mg of protein. Two hundred eighteen (218 of 415, 52%) patients had progesterone receptor (PR) values greater than 10 fmol/mg. The PR positivity correlated with the ER level. Patients with PR levels greater than 10 fmol/mg of protein (124 of 226, 55%) had a significantly higher response rate than those with values less than 10 fmol/mg of protein (45 of 189, 24%). However, in a multivariate analysis including both receptor levels, age, site, and number of metastases, only the ER level was significant in predicting the response to treatment with tamoxifen. A quantitative estimation of the ER level thus is the best predictor of response to hormonal treatment with tamoxifen for advanced breast cancer. 
Hypercapnic and hypoxic ventilatory responses in parents and siblings of children with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome. Children with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) have abnormal ventilatory responses to metabolic stimuli. As there is a genetically determined component of chemoreceptor sensitivity, parents and siblings of children with CCHS may also have blunted ventilatory responses to hypercapnea and hypoxia. To test this, we studied hypercapnic ventilatory responses and hypoxic ventilatory responses in six mothers, four fathers, and five siblings (6 to 49 yr of age) of seven children with CCHS and compared them with 15 age- and sex-matched control subjects (5 to 47 yr of age). Pulmonary function tests were not different between relatives of children with CCHS and control subjects. To measure hypercapnic ventilatory responses, subjects rebreathed 5% CO2/95% O2 until PACO2 reached 60 to 70 mm Hg. To measure hypoxic ventilatory responses (L/min/% SaO2), subjects rebreathed 14% O2/7% CO2/balance N2 at mixed venous PCO2 until SaO2 fell to 75%. All tests were completed in less than 4 min. Instantaneous minute ventilation, mean inspiratory flow (tidal volume/inspiratory time), and respiratory timing (inspiratory timing/total respiratory cycle timing) were calculated on a breath-by-breath basis. Hypercapnic ventilatory responses were 1.97 +/- 0.32 L/min/mm Hg PACO2 in children with CCHS relatives and 2.23 +/- 0.23 L/min/mm Hg PACO2 in control subjects. Hypoxic ventilatory responses were -1.99 +/- 0.37 L/min/% SaO2 in the relatives and -1.54 +/- 0.25 L/min/% SaO2 in the control subjects. 
Mediators, initiating the inflammatory response, released in organ culture by full-thickness human skin explants exposed to the irritant, sulfur mustard. Mediators released from injured human skin that initiate the inflammatory response have not been adequately identified. Organ culture of full-thickness skin explants enables us to do so, because injury to the skin can be made in vitro, eliminating the rapid leakage of serum and infiltration of leukocytes that occur in vivo. In our studies, the military vesicant sulfur mustard (SM) (10 microliters of a 0.01 to 1.0% dilution) was topically applied to injure the epidermis of the explant. Then, the explants were cultured in small Petri dishes, usually for 18 h at 36 degrees C, and the organ-culture fluids were assayed for various inflammatory mediators. We found that the culture fluids from SM-exposed and control explants contained similar amounts of angiotensin-converting enzyme, trypsin-like and chymotrypsin-like proteases, acid phosphatase, beta-glucuronidase, beta-galactosidase, lysozyme, deoxyribonuclease, ribonuclease, interleukin 1, and lactic dehydrogenase. However, the culture fluids from SM-exposed explants contained increased amounts of histamine and plasminogen-activating activity, and often prostaglandin E2, when compared to culture fluids from control explants. After 3 to 4 d in culture, full-thickness human skin explants, when exposed to 0.2% SM (but not when exposed to 1.0% SM), sometimes showed separation of the epidermis and increased collagenase activity (i.e., hydroxyproline release). Thus, histamine (from local mast cells), and prostaglandin E2 and plasminogen-activating activity (probably from both mast cells and epidermal cells) are apparently involved in early mediation of the inflammatory response. 
Comparison of ondansetron and ondansetron plus dexamethasone as antiemetic prophylaxis during cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. Ondansetron, a serotonin antagonist, is effective in controlling the emesis associated with cancer chemotherapy; however, emesis in patients receiving high-dose cisplatin is poorly controlled by ondansetron alone. Dexamethasone is an effective antiemetic with no known interaction with serotonin receptors and was thus chosen for study in combination with ondansetron. 31 patients (30 male, 1 female; median age 28.5 years, range 18-49) receiving a 4-day course of a chemotherapy regimen containing cisplatin (100-120 mg/m2) for metastatic germ-cell tumours were entered in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial comparing oral ondansetron plus placebo with oral ondansetron plus dexamethasone as antiemetic prophylaxis. Ondansetron (8 mg every 8 h) was given to all patients for 8 days from the start of chemotherapy. Patients were given 8 mg of dexamethasone or placebo every 8 h starting 2 h before cisplatin (on day 4) and continuing for six doses (ie, for 2 days only). A second course of chemotherapy began 14 days after the start of the first, during which patients crossed over to the alternative antiemetic regimen. Results were available from 27 patients. In the 24-48 h after cisplatin 78% of patients taking ondansetron plus dexamethasone reported complete or major control of emesis compared with 30% of those taking ondansetron plus placebo (p = 0.001). Cross-over analysis showed a significant advantage for ondansetron plus dexamethasone in the control of nausea (p = 0.013) and emesis (p less than 0.001) over the 8-day study. 24 of 26 patients expressed a preference for the combination therapy (p less than 0.001). Ondansetron plus dexamethasone is effective antiemetic prophylaxis for high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy, has few side effects, and is active when given orally. 
Torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia and terodiline. We report five patients (four women, one man; mean age 74 years, range 55-87) taking terodiline who had torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia associated with prolongation of the QT interval. The QT interval was normal before the introduction of terodiline in three patients and returned to normal after terodiline withdrawal in four. Atrioventricular conduction disturbance or bradycardia were evident in all patients. Terodiline should be prescribed with caution to elderly patients. 
Psychosis following temporal lobe surgery: a report of six cases. Six consecutive patients who had had temporal lobe surgery for epilepsy, and been referred for psychiatric assessment of psychotic symptoms, are reported. Their symptoms (a delusional depression, four schizophrenia-like illnesses, and a case of Capgras' syndrome) are discussed in relation to the possible role of their operations, all of which were on the right hemisphere. 
The hemodynamic response to hemorrhage in tumor-bearing animals. Tumor-bearing rats submitted to hypovolemia have higher mortality rates than have non-tumor-bearing control rats. To determine the mechanisms underlying this sensitivity to hemorrhage, we studied Fischer-344 rats with subcutaneous methylcholanthrene-induced sarcoma (tumor burden, 10% body weight) to determine hematologic and blood volume alterations. Subsequently we used the same animal model in an unanesthetized condition to determine the sensitivity to hemorrhage and resuscitation, as well as vascular responsiveness to vasoactive agents. The rats were separated into two groups: control and tumor-bearing rats (TBR). Sensitivity to hemorrhage and resuscitation was determined by bleeding the conscious rats (15 ml/kg) and resuscitating them with 0.9% NaCl (45 ml/kg). Vascular responsiveness was determined after injection of varying doses of phenylephrine and nitroglycerin, with continuous measurement of mean arterial pressure (MAP). Rate of increase of MAP, maximum MAP, relative increase in MAP (maximum minus baseline), rate of recovery toward baseline MAP, and duration of the response were determined. There was a significant anemia in TBR, but blood volume was similar in both groups. Baseline MAP was significantly higher in control rats (125.3 +/- 8.1 mm Hg) compared with TBR (107.5 +/- 6.0 mm Hg). After hemorrhage, MAP in TBR reached significantly lower levels than in control rats. In addition, after saline resuscitation, MAP in TBR did not return to baseline levels, whereas MAP in control rats returned to prehemorrhage MAP. With nitroglycerin, MAP decreased to lower levels in TBR than in control rats. With phenylephrine, the maximum MAP reached was significantly higher, and the response to phenylephrine was maintained for a significantly longer period in control rats compared with TBR. We conclude that TBR are more sensitive to hypovolemic events in association with decreased oxygen-carrying capacity, profound hypotension, and altered overall vascular responsiveness to sympathetic stimuli. 
Gangrene of the fingers secondary to myeloproliferative disease. The myeloproliferative disorders comprise a group of related diseases, including polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelofibrosis, and myeloid metaplasia. An increase in circulating platelets is associated with thrombotic phenomena affecting the arterial and venous circulation. In this article, the authors describe a case in which the initial manifestation of myeloproliferative disease was gangrene of the fingers. 
Effects of enflurane on inducibility of ventricular tachycardia. The effects of enflurane on cardiac electrophysiologic parameters and on inducibility of ventricular tachycardia (VT) by programmed stimulation were studied in 12 patients (11 men, 1 woman, mean age +/- standard deviation 55 +/- 8 years) with drug refractory sustained monomorphic VT who underwent transcatheter ablation with high-energy direct-current shocks. One catheter ablation procedure was performed in 10 patients, whereas 2 ablation sessions were necessary in 2 patients. Programmed ventricular stimulation was performed on 2 separate days (mean interval 19). There were 2 baseline studies, 1 several days before ("baseline study I") and the second at the beginning of the ablation procedure ("baseline study II") while the patient was awake and nonsedated. The third programmed stimulation study was done 15 to 30 minutes after administration of anesthesia with enflurane, oxygen and nitrous oxide ("enflurane study"). Rate of sinus rhythm, QRS duration, PQ interval and ventricular effective refractory period were unaltered, whereas QTc interval increased significantly after initiation of anesthesia. Before and after induction of general anesthesia, clinical VT was inducible in all patients. However, in 1 patient, induction of VT was only possible by pacing in the left ventricle after enflurane administration. Based on these data, it is concluded that general anesthesia with enflurane, oxygen and nitrous oxide has no marked influence on inducibility of clinical VTs. Therefore, this type of anesthesia may be useful for nonpharmacologic, ablative procedures requiring general anesthesia. 
A randomized comparison of multipolar electrocoagulation and injection sclerosis for the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer. Several options are available to the gastroenterologist for the endoscopic control of peptic ulcer hemorrhage. Sixty men (mean age, 62 years) were stratified into those with actively bleeding ulcers or ulcers with stigmata of recent hemorrhage, and then randomized to treatment with injection sclerosis or the multipolar probe until bleeding ceased. There were no significant differences between the randomized groups in terms of age, ulcer size, or transfusion requirements. We achieved hemostasis in 95% of all patients. Re-bleeding rates were 25% and 23% in patients treated with the multipolar probe and injection sclerosis, respectively. There was no significant difference in mortality (14% multipolar probe, 7% injection sclerosis). Patients over the age of 70, those whose onset of bleeding was while an inpatient, and those with an ulcer larger than 2 cm were more likely to have a poor outcome, regardless of the type of endoscopic therapy. Injection sclerosis and multipolar electrocoagulation are equally effective in controlling bleeding from peptic ulcer. 
Response of osteosarcoma and Ewing sarcoma to chemotherapy: imaging evaluation. The importance of diagnostic imaging in evaluating therapeutic response of bone sarcomas has increased with the use of chemotherapy administered before radiation therapy or surgery. The information provided by imaging studies is used to estimate prognosis; modify preoperative chemotherapy; and plan radiation therapy, surgery, and postoperative chemotherapy. This review examines the value and illustrates some pitfalls of traditional imaging methods, including conventional radiography, angiography, CT, and radionuclide scintigraphy, and discusses recent efforts to monitor therapy by using MR imaging and MR spectroscopy. 
Sucralfate retention enemas in solitary rectal ulcer. The conservative treatment of solitary rectal ulcer is generally unsatisfactory. Six patients, aged 27-54 years, with recurrent solitary rectal ulcer were treated with topical administration of sucralfate in a daily dose of 2 g twice a day for 6 weeks. Four patients experienced complete relief of symptoms and the remaining two patients had marked improvement. Although macroscopic healing of the ulcer was apparent in all, histologic improvement was not appreciable. Five of the six patients remain in remission during a follow-up period of 4-14 months (mean, 8 +/- 1.5 months). Recurrence was observed in one patient at 5 months, which satisfactorily resolved with sucralfate enemas. From these preliminary observations we infer that solitary rectal ulcer can be effectively treated with topical application of sucralfate. 
Clinical anatomic study of pure dysarthria. Nine patients with pure dysarthria underwent computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Eight patients had infarcts of lacunar or larger size in the internal capsule: four in the superior portion of the anterior limb or adjacent corona radiata and four in the superior portion of the genu or the adjacent corona radiata. In one patient, there was a small infarct in the bulbar motor cortex. Dysarthria was transient and characterized by poor articulation in all cases. Five patients also had contralateral facial weakness, and three patients with lesions in the genu had minimal and transient involvement of the contralateral fingers. These three cases appeared to be variants of the dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome. We submit that this syndrome should sometimes be regarded as a stroke syndrome rather than always as a lacunar syndrome. 
Effect of isradipine and atenolol on lung function in patients with mild essential hypertension. Twenty-six hypertensive patients took part in an open, randomized, parallel-group pilot study of the effects of a nine-week treatment period with the calcium antagonist isradipine and the beta 1-blocking agent atenolol. The mean dosage in the isradipine group was 7.9 +/- 3.5 mg/day, and 69.2 +/- 43.5 mg/day in the atenolol group. A significant reduction of the arterial blood pressure was seen with both treatment regimens. Lung volumes and airways resistance remained unchanged, but, in the atenolol-treated group, the linear relationship between alveolar pressure and airways resistance at the lower lung volumes during forced expiration at 25% of forced vital capacity was affected by a shift to higher airways resistance. This change can be interpreted as an early sign of altered air-flow behavior in the small airways in subjects susceptible to beta-adrenoceptor blockade. The calcium antagonist isradipine did not produce changes in any parameters of lung function in this group of patients. 
A technique for needle localization in paraspinal muscles with cadaveric confirmation. Invasive electromyography (EMG) of the paraspinal muscles is useful in clinical and research settings. No technique for localization of the needle in specific fascicles has been validated. Recent descriptions of the segmented innervation of the multifidus imply that such a technique would add greatly to the EMG determination of root level of a radiculopathy. We have developed a technique for localization which relies on palpation of bony structures and needle insertion at certain angles and depths. The technique was evaluated by injecting latex dye in 199 locations in 13 cadavers. Dissection demonstrated that the technique was accurate in 91 of 112 injections into specific fascicles of the multifidus (originating from different spinous processes), 39 of 43 injections into the longissimus, and 35 of 44 injections into the iliocostalis. Certain types of errors would not have occurred with the aid of EMG in vivo. When these are added to the correct injections, accuracy improves 97%, 93%, and 82%, respectively. The technique described here should be useful for kinesiological studies, biopsies and injections, as well as for the EMG confirmation of a radiculopathy. 
Use of oligonucleotide probes directed against T cell antigen receptor gamma delta variable-(diversity)-joining junctional sequences as a general method for detecting minimal residual disease in acute lymphoblastic leukemias. To provide a sensitive and generally applicable method to detect clonal cells in acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL), we have designed a new strategy based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the T cell receptor gamma delta gene rearrangements found in most T and B lineage ALLs. PCR allows rapid sequencing of variable-(diversity)-joining (V-[D]-J) junctions from tumor DNA and construction of anti-junctional oligonucleotides (AJOs) used as probes to detect clonal cells in the same patient. We have defined oligonucleotides suitable for all T cell receptor (TCR) rearrangements involving functional V gamma segments. Oligonucleotides corresponding to preferential TCR delta rearrangements in T and B lineage ALLs were also used. By analysis of the nucleotide sequence of 52 V gamma-V gamma junctions from 30 cases of B and T ALLs, we demonstrate that V-J junctional sequences are clone specific in both lineages and at all stages of differentiation examined despite the frequent presence of the recently described P nucleotides. Experiments performed with TCR gamma delta AJOs on DNA from tumor cells and polyclonal T cells show that AJOs can be used to differentiate clonal cells from polyclonal T cells, distinguish between different T cell clones, and detect residual clonal populations at 10(-4)/10(-5) dilution. AJOs were also used to detect residual disease in samples from patients in clinical and morphological complete remission. Finally, rearrangement patterns were studied by classical Southern analysis in selected cases at both presentation and subsequent relapse showing absence of clonal evolution in most cases. V-(D)-J nucleotide sequences of rearrangements with an identical pattern of rearrangement at presentation and relapse were identical in all cases analyzed. We therefore describe a new, specific, and clinically useful strategy for the detection of minor clonal populations applicable in the majority of cases of ALL. 
Hypertension in young patients. Hypertension is often unrecognized in infants and children. Primary care physicians need the equipment necessary to measure blood pressure in young patients and tables or graphs showing normal values for age and sex. Children should have a blood pressure measurement and preventive counseling at each yearly checkup. Significant hypertension should never be dismissed as a temporary problem but rather should be carefully investigated, treated, and followed up. 
Tuberculous pericarditis. Tuberculosis is responsible for approximately 4% of cases of acute pericarditis, 7% of cases of cardiac tamponade, and, in older studies, 6% of instances of constrictive pericarditis. However, in some nonindustrialized countries, tuberculosis is a leading cause of pericarditis. The diagnosis is based on demonstration of tubercle bacilli in pericardial fluid or on histologic section of the pericardium, or proof of tuberculosis elsewhere in a patient with otherwise unexplained pericarditis. Treatment consists of triple drug therapy for at least 9 months (isoniazid, rifampin, and streptomycin or ethambutol). Pyrazinamide can be used for the first 2 months, and the total therapeutic period can then be shortened to 6 months after culture conversion. Three months of corticosteroid therapy may be useful in patients in whom pericardial effusion persists or recurs despite the use of antituberculous drugs. Surgical resection of the pericardium is indicated for recurrent or life-threatening tamponade, or when there is persistent elevation of systemic venous pressure unrelieved by pericardiocentesis. As many as one third to one half of patients will eventually require pericardiectomy despite adequate drug therapy. 
Sequential high-dose methotrexate and fluorouracil combined with doxorubicin--a step ahead in the treatment of advanced gastric cancer: a trial of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Gastrointestinal Tract Cooperative Group. In a prospective phase III multicenter trial, 213 patients with advanced measurable or nonmeasurable gastric cancer were randomized to receive methotrexate (MTX), fluorouracil (5-FU), and Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Farmitalia Carlo Erba, Milan, Italy) (FAMTX) or 5-FU, Adriamycin, and mitomycin (FAM). The results show a significantly superior response rate (41% v 9% [P less than .0001]), and survival (median, 42 weeks v 29 weeks [P = .004]) for FAMTX. There was a cumulative thrombocytopenia in FAM and not in FAMTX. The FAMTX protocol should be the reference treatment in future clinical trials that seek to improve the therapeutic outcome in advanced gastric cancer. 
Genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma in children. The survival rates for childhood rhabdomyosarcomas have risen from 20% to 50% with the institution of a multidisciplinary approach involving the pediatric oncologist, radiation therapist, and surgeon. Increased survival has been particularly striking in the case of genitourinary rhabdomyosarcomas, which have a more favorable prognosis than rhabdomyosarcomas occurring in other anatomic sites. By stratifying genitourinary rhabdomyosarcomas by anatomic subgroup, i.e., paratesticular, bladder or bladder-prostate, and gynecologic, insight into specific predictors of failure can be obtained. Patients judged to be high risk at diagnosis can then be selected for more intensive or novel forms of therapy. 
Increment-threshold spectral sensitivity in blindsight. Evidence for colour opponency. In the circumscribed visual field defects of 3 patients, increment-threshold spectral sensitivity was measured with a guessing paradigm. Nine 116', 200 ms narrowband stimuli with maximum transmission between 450 and 660 nm were presented on a white background of photopic or scotopic luminance. Sensitivity measured in the blind field was compared with that at matched positions in the patients' normal hemifield, and with that at corresponding positions in 2 control subjects. Results show that spectral sensitivity in the blind field, albeit reduced by up to 1 log unit, shows normal dependence on adaptation level, reflecting rod activity under scotopic, and cone activity under photopic conditions. Characteristic discontinuities in the spectral sensitivity curve seen under light adaptation are evidence for colour-opponent processes, presumably involving primate beta retinal ganglion cells. 
Effect of lung hyperinflation and endotracheal suctioning on heart rate and rhythm in patients after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. We examined the effect of lung hyperinflation and suction on PaO2, heart rate, and rhythm in patients after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (N = 26). Three lung hyperinflation breaths, at one of five randomly ordered volumes (tidal volume, 12 cc/kg, 14 cc/kg, 16 cc/kg, or 18 cc/kg of lean body weight) were delivered, by a ventilator (fraction of inspired oxygen 1.0), followed by 10 seconds of continuous suction. Lung hyperinflation and suctioning were repeated three times. Repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed a statistically significant increase (p = 0.000) in PaO2 immediately after the third suction pass, which was volume dependent (p = 0.009). A statistically significant (p less than 0.001) increase in heart rate from baseline occurred over the three lung hyperinflation-suctioning sequences that was not volume dependent. The mean increase in heart rate was 6.8 beats/min. The majority of rhythm changes for lung hyperinflation and suctioning were from normal sinus rhythm to sinus tachycardia. Suction was associated with a greater incidence of rhythm (53.9%) and arrhythmia (80.8%) changes. The most frequent arrhythmia was premature atrial contraction. 
Pathogenesis of nephrolithiasis post-partial ileal bypass surgery: case-control study. The POSCH Group. Between 1975 and 1983, 838 patients were randomized into the Program on the Surgical Control of Hyperlipidemias (POSCH) trial: 417 to standard medical care and 421 to partial ileal bypass (PIB) surgery. During the course of the trial, an increased incidence of kidney stone formation was found in the surgery group (4%/year) as compared to the control group (0.4%/year). A matched triplet case-control study was conducted to assess the possible causes for the increased incidence of kidney stones. Three groups were studied: PIB stone-formers (S); PIB non-stone formers (N); and non-PIB, non-stone formers in the control group (C). Initially, 162 patients (54 triplets) were selected. Ten percent of the patients declined to participate which resulted in a sample size of 146 patients. The PIB patients had statistically significant (P less than 0.05) lower levels of serum vitamin D metabolites; lower urine volume, pH, citrate, magnesium, carbon dioxide, and sulfate, and higher urinary oxalate, ammonia and relative supersaturation for calcium oxalate and uric acid than the control patients. Although S and N had similar results, those S with no prior history of stones had a higher calcium oxalate supersaturation than similar N with a negative prior history of stones (P less than 0.025). Based on these results, all PIB patients appear to be at risk for kidney stone formation. The combination of reduced urinary volume and calcium oxalate precipitation inhibitor substance with increased calcium oxalate relative supersaturation produced an increase in nephrolithiasis risk in the PIB groups. 
Catabolic illness. Strategies for enhancing recovery. After injury, infection, extensive chemotherapy, and other critical illnesses, both protein and fat are lost from the body. Although minor alterations in body composition are probably of little clinical importance, losses of body protein of 10 percent or more contribute to morbidity and debility. This catabolic response can be modified and recovery can be accelerated by a variety of approaches. First, the inflammatory response can be reduced; second, specific nutrients can be provided to support the patient's tissue requirements during catabolic illness; and third, growth factors can be used to enhance protein synthesis and tissue repair. These approaches, whether used alone or in combination, will reduce the loss of body protein, which should accelerate recovery, shorten the length of hospitalization, and reduce convalescence. 
Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy and intraocular pressure. Several reports have suggested that nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) may be related to increased intraocular pressure. We reviewed the records of 45 patients aged 48 through 86 years with nonarteritic AION (10 patients had bilateral AION) for intraocular pressure measurements and the diagnosis of glaucoma or suspected glaucoma. This group was compared with 45 age- and sex-matched patients with normal eye examination results. The mean +/- SD intraocular pressures were 16.3 +/- 3.3 mm Hg for 45 eyes of the 45 patients with AION and 16.1 +/- 2.8 mm Hg for 45 eyes of the 45 control patients (paired t test, P = .70). Among patients with unilateral AION, intraocular pressure was not greater in the involved eye than in the uninvolved eye. Three patients with AION had a previous diagnosis of glaucoma, while three of the control patients were being followed up with suspected glaucoma. We found no evidence in our series to support the hypothesis that AION is associated with increased intraocular pressure. 
Application and results of the AO internal fixation system in nontraumatic indications. The AO internal skeletal fixation system (ISFS) permits posterior spine fixation to be restricted to the vertebrae immediately adjacent to the lesion and allows manipulation of each instrumented vertebra in three planes. In a prospective study to assess the value of this fixation for adult spinal disorders, 68 patients were reviewed. The device was used in spondylolisthesis, postlaminectomy instability, post-traumatic kyphosis, degenerative scoliosis, spinal stenosis, tumors, and infections. A total of 322 transpedicular screws have been inserted without neurologic complication. Satisfactory results were achieved in 88% of the patients, and only four pseudarthroses (6%) occurred. The ISFS provides rigid stabilization to enhance bone graft consolidation and to allow rapid postoperative mobilization in a light external orthosis. 
Anomalous papillary muscle producing dynamic left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. A patient with a dynamic left ventricular outflow murmur was shown to have an anomalous anterolateral papillary muscle by transthoracic and transesophageal two-dimensional Doppler echocardiography. High late systolic outflow velocity and systolic anterior motion were demonstrated in the lateral outflow tract near the anomalous muscle, suggesting a role for the Venturi effect. This is the first confirmation by Doppler echocardiography of an anomalous papillary muscle contributing to abnormal left ventricular hemodynamics. 
Complex partial status epilepticus of extratemporal origin: report of a case. A 28-year-old woman with no history of seizure was 7 months pregnant when she developed a prolonged complex partial status epilepticus (CPSE) organized in recurrent complex partial seizures of occipital origin, which was ascertained by the presence of elementary visual hallucinations and nystagmus heralding the attacks. EEG demonstrated recurrent seizures starting from the right occipital area. This especially refractory case of CPSE resolved after treatment with antiepileptic drugs and termination of pregnancy by cesarean section. 
Cranial nerve involvement and base of the skull erosion in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. In a prospective study of 262 consecutive patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), using computed tomography (CT) as their baseline evaluation, erosion of the base of the skull and intracranial extension into the middle cranial fossa were found in 31.3% and 12.2% of patients, respectively. Thirty-four of these patients had cranial nerve involvement at presentation; 30 of them had involvement of one or more of the third to sixth cranial nerves. Most cases of intracranial extension of tumor were accompanied by erosion of the base of the skull, but the reverse was not true. All patients with cranial nerve palsy involving the third to sixth cranial nerves had associated erosion of the ipsilateral base of the skull. The CT evaluation of patients with cranial nerve involvement who are believed to harbor NPC should include thin cuts of the base of the skull for detection of subtle bone erosion. This may be the only clue to the presence of a small NPC. The prognostic significance of cranial nerve involvement, base of the skull erosion, and intracranial extension of the tumor on the survival of the group of 84 patients who had T4 tumors was evaluated with regression analysis using the Cox model. Only cranial nerve involvement was found to be a significant factor influencing survival. 
Comparison of the generation of albumin-associated cytotoxic activity in supernatants from ethanol-containing cultures of human blood monocyte-derived macrophages and of two human hepatoma cell lines. The rates of oxidation of ethanol to acetate by human blood monocyte-derived macrophages and the two human hepatoma cell lines PLC/PRF/5 and Hep G2 were studied. The average rates obtained were, respectively, 621, 447 and 596 nmol/h/mg cellular protein. Cultures of these three cell types, containing known quantities of cellular protein per flask, were incubated with 0 or 2 mg ethanol/ml for 72 h and the culture supernatants subjected to affinity chromatography on blue sepharose CL-6B. Pure albumin fractions obtained in this way were adjusted to the same optical density and tested for cytotoxicity against A9 cells. The data showed that the albumin fractions obtained from ethanol-containing macrophage cultures were considerably more cytotoxic than those obtained from ethanol-containing cultures of PLC/PRF/5 and Hep G2 cells. It appeared that, for a given quantity of ethanol metabolised, considerably more acetaldehyde was released extracellularly by macrophages than by the two hepatoma cell lines and that this acetaldehyde bound to albumin to form cytotoxic acetaldehyde-albumin complexes. The data raise the possibility that macrophages are an important source of extracellular acetaldehyde and circulating acetaldehyde-albumin complexes in vivo. 
The endocrine effects of long-term treatment with mifepristone (RU 486). Mifepristone (RU 486) is a compound with progesterone as well as cortisol-blocking activities. We investigated the endocrine effects of long-term therapy of 10 patients with meningiomas with 200 mg mifepristone daily for 1 yr. Most patients initially complained of nausea, vomiting, and/or tiredness. In four patients prednisone (7.5 mg/day) had to be given simultaneously in order to overcome these side-effects. In retrospect those patients who presented with the most severe side-effects showed the most rapidly occurring activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal-axis, as measured by an increase of circulating cortisol levels as well as of urinary cortisol excretion. Therapy with RU 486 activated the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, resulting in a resetting of this system at a higher level at which the diurnal rhythm and the responsiveness to CRH stimulation were maintained, whereas the sensitivity to dexamethasone had diminished. Secondarily the production of androstenedione and estradiol increased considerably. These endocrine changes were caused by the induction of partial cortisol receptor resistance during therapy with RU 486. The compensatory overproduction of androgens and consequently of estrogens during long-term RU 486 therapy might limit its use as a single treatment in the treatment of estrogen-dependent cancer. 
Detection of hepatitis B virus DNA in paraffin-embedded liver tissues in chronic hepatitis B or non-A, non-B, hepatitis using the polymerase chain reaction. We developed a polymerase chain reaction assay for the direct detection of hepatitis B virus in paraffin-embedded liver tissue and applied this assay to determine whether hepatitis B virus DNA exists in livers with chronic hepatitis non-A, non-B. Fifty five liver biopsy samples were studied: 11 from patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis (paraffin-embedded) and 44 from patients with chronic hepatitis non-A, non-B (21 paraffin-embedded; 25 fresh frozen). Thirty three (75%) of the non-A, non-B cases were positive for hepatitis C virus antibodies. Approximately 1 to 10 ng of DNA was extracted from the paraffin-embedded tissue and amplified using oligonucleotide (23-mer) primers specific for the S gene (positions 261 to 692). The beta-globin gene was used as an internal control for sensitivity because this is a single copy gene and allows for relative quantification. In each of the chronic hepatitis B livers, the expected 432-base-pair amplification product for hepatitis B virus DNA and beta-globin gene product were both detected. On the other hand, in the 21 paraffin-embedded chronic hepatitis non-A, non-B livers, no hepatitis B virus DNA was detected, although beta-globin gene was observed in all. Furthermore, in all 25 frozen non-A, non-B livers, beta-globin gene was observed, but no hepatitis B virus band was seen. The limit of detection of hepatitis B virus DNA by this method was estimated to be one genomic copy of hepatitis B virus DNA per cell. 
Varicella zoster virus DNA in throat swabs. Eighty-one throat swabs from 18 patients infected with varicella were tested for varicella zoster virus DNA by the polymerase chain reaction. The positive rates were 26.2% (11/42) during the incubation period and 89.7% (35/39) after clinical onset. The results indicate the pharynx is a site for early replication of the virus. 
Content and boundaries of medicine in long-term care: physicians talk about stroke. Twenty physicians were interviewed about roles, treatments, goals, and relationships with older patients, especially stroke patients. Findings from this descriptive, anthropological investigation address the problem of congruence between needs and existing services, and in doing so, recast the ongoing debate about the medicalization of long-term care. This study emphasized the nonmedical features of geriatric medicine in general and stroke care in particular. In many instances, these physicians attempt to bridge gaps between medical and emotional needs and clinical and social services with social and psychotherapeutic as well as biomedical interventions. Because we found physicians' activities with stroke patients to be so broadly construed, treatment and management of stroke may be seen as paradigmatic for the role of physicians in long-term care. 
The risk of seizure recurrence following a first unprovoked seizure: a quantitative review. Knowledge of the recurrence risk following a first unprovoked seizure and the predictors of that risk are necessary for rational treatment decisions. Published estimates of recurrence risk range from 23% to 71%. In a meta-analysis of 16 reports, three methodologic factors explained much of the reported variation: (1) study inclusion criteria, ie, whether patients were enrolled at the time of their first seizure or if patients with prior seizures were included; (2) retrospective versus prospective ascertainment of patients; (3) the interval between the first seizure and the time at which risk was assessed. The average recurrence risk across the 16 studies was 51%. The risk was 40% and 52% in prospective and retrospective studies that employed first-seizure methods and 67% in non-first seizure studies. At or near 2 years following the first seizure, the recurrence risk was 36% and 47% in prospective and retrospective first-seizure studies. The distribution of prognostic factors was also important. Seizure etiology and the EEG were the strongest predictors of recurrence distinguishing between patient subgroups, with recurrence risks as low as 24% and as high as 65%. Partial seizures were associated with an increased recurrence risk, but not consistently. There is considerable agreement among studies concerning the recurrence risk following a first seizure, and much of the discrepancies among studies can be explained by differences in study methods and distributions of important prognostic factors. 
Pathological features of Crohn's disease determining perforation. Even if Crohn's disease (CD) stenoses are related to perforating complications, such as abscess or fistula, it remains unclear why only some stenoses lead to such complications. We have studied the surgical specimens in 94 cases of CD to characterize the anatomical features of stenosis. We found no differences between group A (patients with perforation) and group B (noncomplicated patients) as far as extent of lesion, number of stenoses, and the caliber of the stenotic bowel. In CD of the ileum, the wall thickness of the stenoses was significantly different: 12.0 +/- 3.4 mm in group A and 7.6 +/- 3.1 mm in group B (p less than 0.001). In colonic CD, the length of stenosis was significantly greater in patients with perforation. Duration of symptoms, age at surgery, and sex did not correlate with the increased thickness or with perforating complications. These observations suggest that the fibrotic gastrointestinal tract, poorly distensible, may increase the intraluminal pressure above the stenosis and in this way squeeze bowel content through mucosal fissures of the inflamed bowel. Evaluation and monitoring of wall thickness may help in prompting surgery before the disease is complicated by perforation. 
Prevalence and prognostic significance of silent and symptomatic ischemia after coronary bypass surgery: a report from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) randomized population. The prevalence and prognostic significance of postoperative myocardial ischemia, as detected by exercise testing, were prospectively assessed in 174 patients from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) randomized surgical population who had exercise testing before and 6 months after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Whereas the prevalence of symptomatic ischemia significantly decreased postoperatively (52% vs. 6%, p less than 0.001), the frequency of silent myocardial ischemia did not change (30% vs. 29%). Survival at 12 years after bypass surgery based on the 6-month postoperative exercise test results was significantly better for the 112 patients with no ischemia (80%) than for the 51 patients with silent ischemia (68%) or the 11 patients with symptomatic ischemia (45%). These data show that coronary artery bypass graft surgery diminishes the overall prevalence of symptomatic but not silent ischemia and that both silent and symptomatic ischemia adversely affect the postoperative prognosis of these patients. 
Subrenal capsule assay using nude mice as a predictor of the response of the gastric cancer to chemotherapy. Feasibility of utilizing human gastric cancers as first transplant generation xenografts in nude mice for determining tumor sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents was demonstrated by applying subrenal capsule (SRC) assay. A total of 55 human gastric tumors from patients were tested in this assay. Mitomycin-C (MMC) and hexycarbamyl-5-FU (HCFU, 5-FU derivative) were selected for the treatment of these patients after surgery and also for this assay as first transplant. Evaluable rate of MMC in this assay was 92.7% and that of HCFU was 90.9%. Sensitivity of tumors to MMC was 25% and to HCFU was 32%. Correlation between response to chemotherapy of human tumors in patients and in nude mice was 78.6%. These results indicate that this assay could predict effective drugs for patients with gastric cancer. 
Preclinical markers in studies of Parkinson's disease. The development of reliable preclinical detection procedures for idiopathic Parkinson's disease may be the fundamental advance required for the establishment of the cause, the natural history, and ultimately, the prevention of this neurodegenerative disorder. The usefulness of these preclinical markers in efforts to better understand the etiology and development of this disorder will relate to whether they are direct measures of dopamine production or indirect measures such as metabolic changes or comorbidity, whether they can be used in the first or later decades of life, whether they are invasive, and whether they are expensive and sophisticated or simple and cheap. An overview of the criteria for evaluation of the utility of specific markers, as well as an assessment of the importance of early markers in future research, is presented. 
Rapid growth of untreated esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma in 10 patients. We documented the natural history of esophageal carcinoma and its rapid growth by measuring the change in tumor diameter radiographically in 10 patients during an observation period because the diagnosis had been missed. Nine men and one woman (age range, 48-74 years; mean, 60 years) were included in the study. Eight patients had undergone esophagography for gastrointestinal complaints and had lesions missed on the initial interpretation that were apparent on retrospective review after the patient had returned with more severe complaints and undergone repeat studies; two patients had refused treatment. The tumor was squamous-cell carcinoma in all. The treatment-free retrospective observation period ranged from 4 to 19 months (mean, 12.2 months) and was shorter for elevated (mean, 9.2 months) than for depressed lesions (mean, 16.8 months). The longitudinal diameter increased from 10-100 mm initially (mean, 30.5 mm) to 32-150 mm (mean, 74.9 mm). No correlation existed between the increase in size and histologic features. This documentation of the rapid increase in the size of esophageal carcinoma involving at least the submucosa confirms clinical impressions of the aggressive nature of this lesion and offers an explanation of why this disease is seldom detected at an early stage and long-term survival is so poor after the early stage of disease. 
Primary intrasellar coccidioidomycosis simulating a pituitary adenoma. The case of a 68-year-old woman who had relatively acute, unilateral ophthalmoplegia is reported. Radiological studies indicated a mass lesion involving the pituitary gland and left cavernous sinus. Pathological tissue obtained by the transsphenoidal approach revealed the presence of a Coccidioides granuloma. This pathological entity should be considered when evaluating patients with a pituitary mass and ophthalmoplegia. 
Mapping of DNA instability at the fragile X to a trinucleotide repeat sequence p(CCG)n. The sequence of a Pst I restriction fragment was determined that demonstrate instability in fragile X syndrome pedigrees. The region of instability was localized to a trinucleotide repeat p(CCG)n. The sequence flanking this repeat were identical in normal and affected individuals. The breakpoints in two somatic cell hybrids constructed to break at the fragile site also mapped to this repeat sequence. The repeat exhibits instability both when cloned in a nonhomologous host and after amplification by the polymerase chain reaction. These results suggest variation in the trinucleotide repeat copy number as the molecular basis for the instability and possibly the fragile site. This would account for the observed properties of this region in vivo and in vitro. 
Correlation of the blind spot size to the area of the optic disk and parapapillary atrophy. We evaluated the relationship between the optic disk and the blind spot area. Using kinetic Goldmann perimetry in 23 patients with open-angle glaucoma and 19 normal subjects, the blind spot size was correlated significantly with the total area of the optic disk, peripapillary scleral ring, and parapapillary chorioretinal atrophy. Zone beta of the parapapillary atrophy with a visible sclera was attributed to an absolute scotoma, and zone alpha with irregular pigmentation was attributed to a relative scotoma. The blind spot was significantly larger in the glaucomatous eyes than in the normal eyes, which corresponded with a larger zone beta in the glaucomatous eyes. The intrapapillary and parapapillary region of the optic nerve head correlated to the size of the blind spot, which included the parapapillary chorioretinal atrophy and a significant size difference between normal and glaucomatous eyes. 
Gastroenteritis associated with consumption of raw shellfish--Hawaii, 1991. On January 2, 1991, 12 of 24 persons who attended one or more of three New Year's celebrations in Honolulu, Hawaii, had onset of gastrointestinal illness. An investigation by the Epidemiology Branch of the Hawaii Department of Health (HDOH) determined that the only common foods shared by participants were oysters and clams provided by one distributor. 
Familial juvenile polyposis coli and colorectal cancer. A 40-year-old mother and her 7-year-old son underwent colectomy for polyposis coli. Both colectomy specimens contained predominantly juvenile polyps. The mother's specimen also had numerous tubular adenomas and one 5-cm severely dysplastic villous adenoma without invasive carcinoma. Foci of adenomatous change in juvenile polyps were present in the son's specimen. The histologic features of both cases suggest a sequence of change from juvenile polyps to adenomatous polyps to cancer. 
Mesenteric infarction secondary to tumor emboli from primary aortic sarcoma. Guidelines for diagnosis and management. Primary aortic tumors are rare, difficult to diagnose, and often fatal. This case and a review of the literature identified aortic tumors as a potential source of emboli leading to acute mesenteric insufficiency. The case showed the efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging in diagnosing and determining the extent and location of an aortic tumor. 
MDR1 gene expression and treatment outcome in acute myeloid leukemia To prospectively assess the role of MDR1 gene expression in patients with de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML), levels of MDR1 RNA in blast cells were determined at diagnosis and correlated with treatment outcome in 63 patients. MDR1 RNA levels were negative in 29% and positive in 71% of the patients. The complete remission rate in response to induction chemotherapy was 89% for MDR1 RNA-negative patients and 53% for MDR1 RNA-positive patients (P = .008). Expression of the MDR1 gene was observed in most patients who died early or had resistant disease. Kaplan-Meier curves revealed a decrease in both disease-free survival and overall survival of patients with detectable MDR1 gene expression compared with the disease-free survival and overall survival of MDR1 RNA-negative patients (P = .029 and P = .009, respectively). These data indicate that MDR1 gene expression is an unfavorable prognostic factor and suggest that multidrug resistance is important in AML. 
Increased dopamine-induced nephrogenous cAMP formation in hypertension. Low doses of exogenous dopamine (3 micrograms/kg/min) were administered intravenously to nine patients with essential hypertension and to six age-matched healthy volunteers. During infusion with dopamine, mean arterial blood pressure decreased in hypertensive patients whereas it did not change in normotensive subjects. Basal levels of sodium excretion were comparable in hypertensive and normotensive subjects. The natriuretic response to dopamine was significantly greater in hypertensive patients. Urinary and nephrogenous cAMP significantly increased in both normotensive and hypertensive subjects. The increase of nephrogenous cAMP was more pronounced in hypertensive patients than in normotensive controls. A significant correlation was found between nephrogenous cAMP and sodium excretion. The enhanced natriuretic response to dopamine in hypertensive patients may be due to increased cAMP formation in response to tubular dopamine receptor stimulation. This is in agreement with the hypothesis of either up-regulation or affinity changes of renal dopamine receptors in patients with essential hypertension, secondary to a decreased endogenous production of intrarenal dopamine. 
Surveillance for recurrent stenosis after endovascular procedures. A prospective study. Eighty-nine endovascular procedures were performed during a 1-year period. Techniques included balloon angioplasty (n = 50), laser-assisted balloon angioplasty (n = 32), and atherectomy (n = 7). Indications were claudication (65.2%), critical ischemia (30.3%), and failing bypass (4.5%). Preoperative evaluation included a history and physical examination, segmental limb pressures, and color duplex ultrasonography. Postoperative surveillance consisted of a history and physical examination, ankle-arm indexes, and color duplex examinations at 1-week, 1-month, and then 3-month intervals. All levels of aortoiliac and infrainguinal disease were treated. Immediate technical success rate was 89.8%. Recurrence rates by life-table analysis reveal a 9-month patency rate of 45.4%. Early results of this prospective study indicate that endovascular procedures are subject to significant restenosis rates. Restraint is advised concerning general acceptance of endovascular procedures pending critical study. 
Pain and vascular reflexes in man elicited by prolonged noxious mechano-stimulation. Interdigital webs of the hands of human volunteers were pinched for periods of 2 min duration to induce tonic pain perceptions. During stimulation, the subjects gave estimates of their pain level at 10-sec intervals on a visual analogue scale, and the stimulus induced changes of the skin blood flow in the stimulated hand was assessed by photo-plethysmography. Sustained pinching induced a tonic reflex vasoconstriction in the stimulated hand with rather slow adaptation rate and no signs of habituation between trials. Step increases of the pinching force in the course of a stimulus were reflected by a decrease in plethysmogram amplitude as well as by increased pain ratings, although the subjects were usually unaware of these steps. Lowering the stimulus strength induced opposite, albeit much smaller effects in both pain ratings and vascular reactions. It is concluded that the vasomotor responses described in this paper are mediated by nociceptor input and reflect the processing of this input mainly at a spinal level. 
Striking CT scan findings in a case of unilateral moyamoya disease--a case report. The authors report striking CT scan findings in a young woman with unilateral Moyamoya disease. Serial CT scans showed features that paralleled the clinical and pathophysiologic evolution of the disorder, in much the same way as has been reported in studies using serial angiograms. 
Acute delta hepatitis: serological diagnosis with particular reference to hepatitis delta virus RNA. To evaluate serologic diagnosis of hepatitis delta virus, we tested HDV RNA in stored sera from 48 patients with acute delta hepatitis who were identified with anti-HD antibodies. Initial sera were positive for HDV RNA in 27 of 48 (56%) patients. In comparison, isolated IgM anti-HD was present in 18 (38%) patients, although IgM and IgG anti-HD were present concurrently in 16 (33%) additional patients. Overall, either HDV RNA or IgM anti-HD was present in 69% of the initial sera. The HDV infection was self-limiting in all except two patients who died of fulminant hepatitis and nine others in whom chronic delta hepatitis ensued. Patterns of HDV seropositivity during progression to chronicity induced variable persistence, disappearance or recrudescence of either HDV RNA or IgM and IgG anti-HD. Results of HDV RNA and IgM anti-HD tests were concordant in only 40-50% of instances. Our results indicate that serological testing for HDV RNA is direct and will demonstrate HDV replication in a large number of cases with acute delta hepatitis. Testing for IgM anti-HD could provide supplemental evidence for HDV infection. Sequential testing for these markers will facilitate assessment of the outcome of acute HDV infection. 
The endoscopic repair of choanal atresia. Since 1755, when choanal atresia was first described by Roederer, more than 300 papers have appeared in the literature dealing with various aspects of choanal atresia. Today's preferred methods of repair are transnasal and transpalatal. Each method has its advantages, disadvantages, proponents, and opponents. The main disadvantage of the transnasal procedure is limited vision, even with a microscope, especially in newborn infants, and the inability to adequately remove enough vomerine septal bone to prevent restenosis. Endoscopic transnasal repair of choanal atresia provides excellent visualization and the ability to perform exact surgery on patients of all ages. Described are four patients who underwent endoscopic repair of choanal atresia. Three of the four have patent nares, one patient after revision surgery. The technique is discussed along with its advantages and disadvantages relative to other surgical treatment modalities. 
Assessment of left atrial appendage function by transesophageal echocardiography. Implications for the development of thrombus. BACKGROUND. The predilection of the left atrial appendage (LAA) for thrombus formation has long been known. METHODS AND RESULTS. We prospectively studied the two-dimensional echocardiographic and Doppler patterns of LAA function in 82 patients by transesophageal echocardiography. In the 63 patients in sinus rhythm, LAA area was measured during LAA diastole at the onset of the electrocardiographic (ECG) P wave (LAAmax) and after LAA systole at the ECG R wave (LAAmin) and LAA ejection fraction was calculated as (LAAmax-LAAmin)/LAAmax; peak Doppler velocity was recorded from the LAA outlet. The 58 patients in sinus rhythm without LAA thrombus were grouped according to left atrial size on transthoracic echocardiography; 39 patients had a left atrial size of less than 40 mm (group 1) and 19 had a left atrial size of 40 mm or greater (group 2). Five patients in sinus rhythm had LAA thrombus. In the 19 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter LAAmax was measured independent of the ECG; three of these patients had LAA spontaneous contrast, four had thrombus, and one had both. Patients in sinus rhythm without LAA thrombus demonstrated a characteristic pattern of a contractile LAA apex and a noncontractile base with color flow and pulsed Doppler evidence of LAA emptying that coincided with the P wave. Patients in sinus rhythm with LAA thrombus had a mean +/- SD LAAmax (8.0 +/- 1.5 cm2) larger than that in group 1 (5.0 +/- 1.9 cm2) (p less than 0.01) but not group 2 (6.7 +/- 3.1 cm2), LAAmin (6.5 +/- 1.0 cm2) larger than that in both group 1 (2.3 +/- 1.5 cm2) and group 2 (4.2 +/- 2.7 cm2) (p less than 0.01), and LAA ejection fraction (17 +/- 11%) and LAA velocity (0.24 +/- 0.10 m/sec) less than those in both group 1 (55 +/- 21% and 0.48 +/- 0.24 m/sec, respectively) and group 2 (45 +/- 27% and 0.46 +/- 0.24 m/sec, respectively) (p less than 0.01). Patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter with LAA spontaneous contrast and/or thrombus had LAAmax (10.4 +/- 6.6 cm2) greater than that in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter without LAA contrast and/or thrombus (6.8 +/- 3.0 cm2) (p less than 0.05). The LAA appeared as a static pouch in seven of eight of the former compared with in two of 11 of the latter. When attempted, Doppler demonstrated a recognizable fibrillatory LAA outflow velocity pattern in none of three in the former versus four of seven in the latter group. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that the LAA has a characteristic pattern of emptying in sinus rhythm. LAA thrombus formation in sinus rhythm and atrial fibrillation is associated with both poor LAA contraction and LAA dilation. 
Square wave jerks in parkinsonian syndromes. The frequency of square wave jerks (SWJ) was compared in eight patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), 25 patients with multiple system atrophy or Parkinson's disease plus (MSA/PP), 85 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and 20 age-matched normal volunteers. In the control group, the mean (SD) SWJ frequency (SWJ larger than 1 degree amplitude) was 2.3 (2.4)/min. Abnormal ocular fixation (SWJ frequency greater than 10/min) was observed in a large proportion of PSP patients (7/8) and of MSA/PP patients (16/25) but in few PD patients (13/85). In the group of PD patients with abnormal ocular fixation, freezing of gait, falls and instability were more severe than in the group of PD patients with normal fixation. The study of ocular fixation may help to differentiate PD clinically from other Parkinsonian syndromes. SWJ are probably not related to the central degeneration of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway observed in PD. 
Consequences of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for Crohn's colitis. Patients with Crohn's colitis are generally not considered candidates for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) procedure. We reviewed 362 consecutive patients undergoing IPAA and analyzed the outcome of this procedure on 25 patients with a preoperative diagnosis of mucosal ulcerative colitis who were subsequently proven to have Crohn's disease. The mean follow-up was 38.1 months. Sixteen patients have a functioning pouch, seven have required pouch excision, one is diverted, and one has died. Only one of nine patients in whom there was a preoperative clinical feature suggestive of Crohn's disease has a functioning pouch, with complications uniformly occurring within months of ileostomy closure. In contrast, 15 of 16 patients without preoperative features of Crohn's disease have maintained their pouch, generally with good results. These data suggest that patients in whom there is clinical and pathologic evidence of Crohn's disease do very poorly without meaningful symptom-free intervals. However, patients without any clinical features of Crohn's disease, despite a histopathologic diagnosis of Crohn's colitis, have had a good outcome with IPAA thus far. 
Roles of deoxycholate and arachidonate in pathogenesis of cholesterol gallstones in obese patients during rapid loss of weight. Our aim was to examine the relationship between biliary deoxycholate and arachidonate in obese patients and the relationship of deoxycholate and arachidonate to the stimulation of biliary mucous glycoprotein among obese patients predisposed to cholesterol gallstones. Thirty-four obese patients predisposed to cholesterol gallstones by a weight-reducing diet (520 kcal/day) received placebo, ursodiol (1200 mg/day), or aspirin (1300 mg/day). Duodenal bile was collected prior to beginning the diet and at four weeks. There was no correlation between deoxycholate and arachidonate among the 34 patients before beginning the diet. With placebo, deoxycholate decreased while arachidonate and glycoprotein increased. With ursodiol, deoxycholate decreased while arachidonate decreased and glycoprotein did not change. With aspirin, there was no change in deoxycholate but a decrease in arachidonate and no change in glycoprotein. Our data do not support a role for biliary deoxycholate in the regulation of biliary arachidonate. Our data do support a role for arachidonate, but not deoxycholate, in the regulation of biliary glycoprotein during the formation of cholesterol gallstones. 
Psychiatric illness in patients with chronic fatigue and those with rheumatoid arthritis OBJECTIVES: To identify psychiatric differences between patients with chronic fatigue and those with rheumatoid arthritis and to investigate whether patients meeting Centers for Disease Control (CDC) criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) can be differentiated from patients with chronic fatigue on measures of disability and psychosocial distress. DESIGN: Cross-sectional study comparing 98 patients with chronic fatigue with 31 patients with rheumatoid arthritis on structured psychiatric interviews and patient questionnaires. Nineteen patients meeting CDC criteria for CFS were compared with 79 patients with chronic fatigue not meeting CDC criteria on questionnaires measuring disability and psychosocial distress. SETTING: Consecutive patients with chronic fatigue were selected from a chronic fatigue clinic at the University of Washington, and 31 consecutive patients with rheumatoid arthritis were sampled from a private rheumatology practice. MAIN RESULTS: Patients with chronic fatigue had a significantly higher prevalence of lifetime major depression and somatization disorder than did patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Patients with chronic fatigue also had a significantly higher prevalence of current and lifetime psychiatric diagnoses. Only 19 of 98 patients with chronic fatigue met CDC criteria for CFS. Patients meeting CDC criteria for CFS could not be differentiated from the larger group of patients with chronic fatigue on any study variable. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with chronic fatigue have a significantly higher burden of psychiatric illness than do patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The psychiatric illness preceded the development of chronic fatigue in over half the patients. Centers for Disease Control criteria for CFS did not select a subset of chronic fatigue patients who could be differentiated on disability or psychosocial parameters from patients with chronic fatigue who did not meet CDC criteria. 
Ossifying fibromyxoid tumor of soft parts. Additional observations of a distinctive soft tissue tumor. The author studied four subcutaneous soft tissue tumors, similar to those recently described by Enzinger and associates (Am J Surg Pathol 1989;13:817) by the name "ossifying fibromyxoid tumor," by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to further understand the cellular nature of this lesion. The four tumors were composed of uniform round cells often surrounded by a lacunar space. The tumors often contained a peripheral zone of metaplastic bone. The cellularity was high, but the mitotic rate was low, suggesting a benign or borderline nature of the lesion. Longer follow-up was available for three cases, showing recurrence-free survival times of 11, 8, and 3 years. Immunohistochemistry studies revealed that all tumors were strongly positive for S-100 protein and focally positive for Leu-7, whereas melanoma-specific marker HMB45 was negative. Vimentin was the main type of intermediate filament protein, and one case also contained scattered glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. Epithelial markers (keratins, epithelial membrane antigen), desmin, and muscle actins were negative. Electron microscopic examination showed partial, sometimes reduplicated, basal lamina surrounding many cells. Complex cell processes were also present. No myofilaments were found. The immunohistochemical and electron microscopic results may suggest that this tumor has Schwann's cell differentiation. 
Mitral valve repair in the extensively calcified mitral valve annulus. Mitral valve replacement in patients with an extensively calcified mitral annulus is associated with an increased risk of ventricular rupture. Until now techniques of mitral valve repair have not been applied to patients with a heavily calcified mitral valve annulus. We present 12 patients who underwent extensive decalcification of the annulus with subsequent mitral valve repair between 1987 and 1990. Ages ranged from 11 to 78 years; 6 patients were in New York Heart Association functional class II, 4 were in class III, and 2 were in class IV. All patients had varying degrees of mitral insufficiency. There were no deaths, reoperations, or thromboembolic events. Postoperative echocardiography revealed minimal residual mitral insufficiency in only 2 of 12 patients. All patients are currently in New York Heart Association class I or II. We believe mitral valve repair can be done safely on patients with an extensively calcified mitral annulus, thus avoiding the risks of left ventricular rupture, thromboembolic events, and hemorrhagic complications associated with mitral valve replacement. 
Intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia in children after selective dorsal root rhizotomy. The authors report their experience with low doses (0.007-0.015 mg/kg), moderate doses (0.016-0.025 mg/kg), and high doses (0.026-0.035 mg/kg) of intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia after selective dorsal root rhizotomy surgery in 50 children, aged 3 to 12 years. After closure of the dura, a single dose of preservative-free morphine was injected into the subarachnoid space, and patients were assessed for 48 hours for level of comfort and side effects. The three doses of morphine provided equivalent analgesia and similar side effects. The duration of postoperative analgesia ranged from 3 to 48 hours (mean, 12.2 +/- 9.5 h). Common side effects were limited to nausea and vomiting (42%) and mild facial pruritus. No patient experienced late respiratory depression or generalized pruritus. The authors conclude that low doses of intrathecal morphine is as effective as moderate or high doses of morphine for reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period. Intrathecal morphine provides excellent analgesia after selective dorsal rhizotomy. 
A novel technique for the evaluation of mechanical pain and hyperalgesia. We describe a new technique which is useful for the evaluation of mechanically induced pain and hyperalgesia. Light metal cylinders are guided and accelerated in a barrel. On impact against the skin they elicit a brief sensation of pain. This method allows the application of a wide range of controllable innocuous and noxious impact velocities of the cylinder at variable stimulus repetition rates. The system is sufficiently flexible to stimulate perpendicularly any skin area and to move rapidly to adjacent target regions if desired. Psychophysical testing using magnitude estimation techniques revealed that pain thresholds were normally distributed. Over a wide range of stimulation intensities monotonically increasing stimulus response functions were obtained. Repeated testing showed a good intra-individual reproducibility of both threshold and supramaximal pain ratings. The method was also useful in determining the time course of pain and mechanical hyperalgesia following a brief painful stimulus. We conclude that the new technique is useful for evaluating psychophysical stimulus response functions of mechanically induced pain and its changes following tissue injury. This technique may also hold some promise in quantifying altered pain sensitivity in patients. 
Cloning of a leucine-zipper protein recognized by the sera of patients with antibody-associated paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. Antibody-associated paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (the Yo syndrome) is an uncommon disorder in which an immune response is specifically directed against tumor tissue and the cerebellum. Screening of a lambda expression library has resulted in the isolation of cDNA clones that encode the major antigen recognized by serum from these patients. The fusion protein produced by the cDNA clones provides the basis of a simple diagnostic assay for this neurological syndrome. The occurrence of leucine-zipper and zinc-finger motifs in the predicted open reading frame suggests that this protein plays a role in the regulation of gene expression. 
Emergency management of blunt trauma in children. Apart from the trend to nonoperative treatment of blunt abdominal injuries, based on accurate CT diagnosis, most of the recent and anticipated changes in pediatric trauma are organizational. They include resuscitation and triage before hospitalization, the use of designated trauma centers, resuscitation by trauma teams, noninvasive diagnosis and monitoring, comprehensive pediatric intensive care, the use of objective measures of outcome, and improved rehabilitation programs (Templeton JM: personal communication). The treatment of individual cases is based on simple but well-established principles. The key steps in management are to recognize children with life-threatening injuries (on the basis of the mechanism of injury or a Pediatric Trauma Score less than or equal to 8 or a Revised Trauma Score less than or equal to 11), to support the function of vital organs by establishing and maintaining adequate respiratory gas exchange and circulation, and to identify all important injuries by thorough and ongoing assessment. 
Interpretation and clinical significance of the QRS axis of the electrocardiogram. The frontal plane QRS axis of the standard 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) is easily and accurately measured by the clinician. A simple method of estimating this axis is discussed. This axis is age-dependent. We reviewed the literature to determine if evidence exists of an association between an "abnormal" QRS axis and clinically significant myocardial disease. We also examined the literature for clinical correlation of a "normal" QRS axis with the absence of myocardial pathology. We found that although an abnormal QRS axis (falling outside the limits of +30 degrees and +90 degrees) occurs in a small number of normal individuals, its presence should prompt a thorough evaluation of all the parameters of the ECG to look for myocardial disease. 
Explicit memory and repetition priming in depression. Preliminary findings. Explicit memory and repetition priming, a form of implicit memory, were examined in depressed patients and controls. Explicit memory of depressed patients was severely impaired, whereas repetition priming was intact. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the impairment of memory in depression is linked to a failure of effort-demanding cognitive processes. Repetition priming might be useful in differentiating between depression and dementia. 
Delayed presentation and treatment of popliteal artery embolism. In the course of reviewing a 10-year experience with popliteal artery embolism (PAE), two distinct patterns of clinical presentation were identified. In addition to those patients presenting with typical acute (symptom duration less than 7 days) arterial ischemia, a second group was identified who presented with more chronic symptoms. The present study was conducted to contrast the clinical factors and treatment of these two temporal patterns of presentation with PAE. Sixty PAEs in 58 patients were documented by the combination of angiography and/or exploration of the popliteal artery. Acute presentation (AP) was seen in 41 (68%) of these and delayed presentation (DP) was noted in 19 (32%) patients. Delayed presentation patients typically presented with a history of sudden onset of claudication or rest pain and a median symptom duration of 30 days. Eighty per cent of AP patients presented with immediately threatened limbs. Angiography was generally diagnostic of chronic popliteal embolism. In the acute group, 90% were treated with embolectomy alone, while 20% of the DP group required bypass grafting. However in two thirds of the DP group, embolectomy alone performed through a direct popliteal approach was possible. Current results with overall limb salvage (92%) and mortality (7%) represents a substantial improvement compared to the authors' previous experience with PAE. The current study suggests that as many as one third of patients with popliteal artery embolism may present in delayed fashion with chronic symptoms. Furthermore most of these patients can be treated with direct popliteal embolectomy alone with favorable results. 
A phase IA trial of sequential administration recombinant DNA-produced interferons: combination recombinant interferon gamma and recombinant interferon alfa in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. This study investigated the effects of sequentially administered recombinant interferon gamma (rIFN gamma) and recombinant interferon alfa (rIFN alpha) in 36 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). rIFN alpha was subcutaneously administered daily for 70 days at dosages that varied (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 x 10(6) U/m2) across four cohorts of patients. Within each cohort of patients receiving a given dose of rIFN alpha, three subsets of patients received either 30, 300, or 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. rIFN gamma was administered intravenously for 5 days every third week, 6 hours prior to administration of rIFN alpha. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) included constitutional symptoms, leukopenia, nephrotic syndrome with acute renal failure, hypotension associated with death, and congestive heart failure. DLT was related more often to the rIFN alpha dose level than to rIFN gamma dose level. Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 10 x 10(6) U/m2 rIFN alpha and 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. Six patients failed to complete a minimum of 21 days of therapy due to toxicity or rapid progression of disease. Clinical responses were seen in eight of 30 assessable patients. Two patients experienced complete remission and have remained in complete remission 20+ and 22+ months. An additional six patients have shown partial responses for 4 to 18+ months. One patient in partial remission continues to show slow regression of pulmonary and liver lesions off therapy with rIFNs. Clinical responses have remained durable for patients with complete remissions and patients with partial remissions. The results of this study suggest that toxicities associated with combination rIFN therapy can be reduced by administering these agents sequentially as opposed to simultaneously. 
Radiologic recommendation for breast biopsy on screening mammography reports. Radiologic reports on screening mammography findings often obligate breast biopsy. Ready recommendation for biopsy of nonpalpable lesions imaged by x ray is a conservative radiologic policy but is unsettling for patients and creates an imperative bind for surgeons. Like the decision to send the patient with right lower quadrant abdominal pain home rather than to the operating room, the diagnosis that requires clinical confidence and precision is nonappendicitis. Noncancer of the breast is a similar diagnosis that can usually be made on clinical and mammographic findings rather than passing such patients through to invasive diagnosis. A series of 84 patients was referred for needle localization of nonpalpable mammographically detected lesions called suspicious on screening examination. Of these 84 patients, new radiographic reports reinterpreting the findings without biopsy were written on the original mammogram in 15 patients. This is a cancellation rate of 21 per cent. In 69 patients needle localization was carried out with the finding of cancer in 28 per cent, compared with the national average of 15 per cent. This higher than average yield caused concern whether any unbiopsied cancers had been followed, and a review of these patients was undertaken. In the log of patients referred for needle localization, the prereading by the mammographer performing the needle localization was recorded in advance of biopsy confirmation, and specificity proved to be 94 per cent and sensitivity 96 per cent. Of the cancers that were detected, 39 per cent were proven in patients older than 50 years. 
Overnight studies in severe chronic left heart failure: arrhythmias and oxygen desaturation. Overnight studies were performed in 10 patients with severe chronic left heart failure (New York Heart Association grades III and IV) without pulmonary disease and in eight controls. Transcutaneous oxygen (Po2) and carbon dioxide tensions (Pco2) and oxygen saturation were measured and the electro-cardiogram was recorded. During sleep mean oxygen saturation fell to 92.7% (minimum 86.1%) from 95.1% when awake. During the night oxygen saturation was below 95% for 62% of the time, below 90% for 6% of the time, and below 85% for 1% of the time. In four patients there were oxygen desaturation dips (a fall of greater than 4% in oxygen saturation from a stable baseline that lasted greater than 30 s) with concurrent increases in Pco2. Two patients had bradycardia during the dips: in one there was non-sustained ventricular tachycardia during the dips and in the other there was ST depression (greater than 0.1 mV at 80 ms after the J point) during a dip. In the controls the fall in mean oxygen saturation from 95.4% when they were awake to 94.4% when they were asleep was less than the fall in patients with heart failure and there were no desaturation dips or arrhythmias. Thus patients with severe heart failure had episodes of oxygen desaturation during sleep, some of which were associated with arrhythmia. Such episodes may be related to the increased risk of sudden death in chronic heart failure. 
Potential use of monoclonal antibodies in the diagnostic distinction of gynecomastia from breast carcinoma in men. Immunohistochemical (IHC) assays using the monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) B72.3 and B6.2, recognizing two distinct and independently expressed breast tumor-associated antigens (BTAAs), recently have been shown to significantly improve the accuracy of cytodiagnosis of breast nodules by fine-needle aspiration (FNA). To evaluate whether the same method may be useful diagnostically in distinguishing gynecomastia from breast cancer in men, a retrospective avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase assay study was performed on 50 cases of gynecomastia and 30 cases of breast carcinoma in men, using a panel of five MoAbs known to recognize different BTAAs. The results of this study demonstrated that MoAbs B1.1, HMFG2, and MBr1 displayed a strong reactivity with gynecomastia and carcinoma, but MoAbs B72.3 and B6.2 separated benign and malignant lesions in a high percentage of cases. When used in combination, the latter two reagents reacted with 96% of the carcinomas that were analyzed but labeled only 67% of gynecomastia cases. Thus, the conjoint use of these two reagents may enhance the use of FNA biopsy as a valuable tool in the presurgical diagnosis of breast nodules in men. 
Corynebacterium parvum versus bacille Calmette-Guerin adjuvant immunotherapy of stage II malignant melanoma. Two separate studies have been reported comparing Corynebacterium parvum and bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) as adjuvant immunotherapy for stage II melanoma patients (The Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 48 patients; Southeastern Cancer Study Group [SECSG], 162 patients). As the criteria for patient selection and drugs used were similar, we have pooled the data to analyze the effects of these two treatments. Both studies used BCG (Tice, Chicago, IL) 3 x 10(8) live organisms per treatment by Tine technique and C parvum (Burroughs-Wellcome, Triangle Park, NC) subcutaneous at a dose of 4 mg/m2 (SECSG) or 5 micrograms/m2 (Hershey) per treatment. The only difference in these studies was the frequency of immunization, with patients in Hershey receiving 22 doses and the SECSG patients receiving 55 doses during the 2-year period of treatment. Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis for the 210 patients shows a prolonged disease-free interval for patients treated with C parvum (P = .02, two-sided Mantel procedure). In similar fashion, patients treated with C parvum had an improved survival rate (from all causes) when compared with BCG-treated patients (P = .012). An analysis of the results for the 170 patients for which the number of positive nodes was available was performed using Cox's model, with nodes as a stratification variable and with covariates of place, treatment, age, and sex. In this analysis, an observed benefit for C parvum on the disease-free interval had a P value of .37 while the benefit of C parvum on the survival times (from all causes) had a P value of .04. When the same analysis was performed using only patients aged younger than 60 years, the observed benefit of C parvum on disease-free interval had a P value of .08 and the benefit of C parvum on survival times (from all causes) had a P value of .008. 
Immunohistochemistry of Terrien's and Mooren's corneal degeneration. Lamellar keratoplasty specimens from a patient with Terrien's marginal degeneration and a patient with Mooren's ulcer were compared using routine histopathologic and immunohistochemical staining with an avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex. Less than 25% of the resident cells in the Terrien's marginal degeneration specimen expressed major histocompatibility class II antigens compared with 75% to 100% of the resident cells in the Mooren's ulcer specimen. The ratio of CD4 cells (T-helper/inducer) to CD8 cells (T-suppressor/cytotoxic cells) in the Terrien's marginal degeneration specimen was almost 1:1 compared with 24:1 in the Mooren's ulcer specimen. In addition, less than 5% of the infiltrating cells from the Terrien's marginal degeneration specimen stained positive for CD22 (B cells), compared with 25% to 50% from the Mooren's ulcer specimen. These data may help explain why Terrien's marginal degeneration runs a more benign course than does Mooren's ulcer and provides a rationale for the use of immunosuppressive drugs to treat Mooren's ulcer. 
Developmental disorders of the pediatric spine. Developmental disorders of the pediatric spine are a group of congenital malformations commonly referred to as spinal dysraphism. These malformations are characterized by incomplete or absent fusion of midline mesenchymal, bony, and neural structures. They can be classified according to the presence or absence of an associated back mass. A detailed analysis of the embryology, clinical findings, and radiologic characteristics of the common forms of spinal dysraphism is outlined. 
Subcutaneous lidocaine for treatment of neuropathic cancer pain. Three patients with terminal malignancy reporting ineffective analgesia using systemic and subsequently spinal opiates were treated with subcutaneous infusion of 10% lidocaine hydrochloride. During the infusion, reasonably stable blood concentrations were achieved and maintained using a subcutaneous infusion at varying dose rates over days to months with improvement of the pain complaints which continued to be refractory to conventional analgesics. Blood lidocaine levels obtained at regular intervals revealed effective concentrations between 2 and 5 micrograms/ml for each patient. 
Mycosis fungoides in childhood: an unusual presentation. Mycosis fungoides, a cutaneous T cell lymphoma, is rare in childhood and adolescence. We report a case of mycosis fungoides in a 9-year-old boy initially at a site of benign reactive lymphoid hyperplasia. 
Late results of two hundred seventeen femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments. A 10-year-experience of 217 femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments in 207 patients is reported. Thirty-three femoropopliteal bypasses (15%) were performed with reversed saphenous vein and 184 (85%) with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts. Operative indications were gangrene in 121 (56%), nonhealing ulceration in 40 (18%), ischemic rest pain in 51 (24%), and claudication in 5 (2%) cases. The 5-year primary graft patency rate of these bypasses was 59% (reversed saphenous vein, 74%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 55%; p less than 0.05), the secondary 5-year graft patency rate was 61% (reversed saphenous vein, 79%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 56%; p less than 0.05), and the 5-year limb salvage rate was 78% (reversed saphenous vein, 78%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 78%). The 30-day operative mortality rate was 10%, and the 5-year patient survival rate was 38%. Eleven patients (5%) required lower extremity amputation because of progressive gangrene or extensive infection despite a patent bypass to an isolated popliteal artery segment. We conclude that femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments (1) have acceptable 5-year graft patency and limb salvage rates; (2) should be performed with reversed saphenous vein grafts when possible; (3) may be performed with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts if necessary, with a resulting limb salvage rate equal to that of reversed saphenous vein grafts; and (4) require sequential extension to an infrapopliteal artery in up to 20% of patients. In addition, the presence of an isolated popliteal artery segment is associated with a high operative mortality rate and limited life expectancy because of coronary artery disease. 
Insights gained from the management of problematical anal fistulae at St. Mark's Hospital, 1984-88. Twenty-four (3.6 percent) patients with problematical anal fistulae out of 671 with anal fistulae were analysed to assess the reasons for their recurrences and ultimate outcome. Thirteen patients (group A) had recurrent fistulae despite two definitive attempts at surgery at this hospital (median number of previous procedures before referral to this hospital was two, range 0-7; median number of definitive procedures at this hospital was three, range 3-4). In five of these patients, the reason for recurrence was missed primary (four cases) or secondary tracks (one case) at earlier operations. Five patients required multiple operations related to the use of setons. Eleven other patients (group B) required colostomy construction, eight because of severe perianal sepsis, two because of complex fistulae, and one for postrectal dermoid. Fistula healing occurred ultimately in all patients in group A after a median of 14 months (range 4-38 months). In group B, fistula healing occurred in eight patients after a median of 7.5 months (range 2-55 months) after colostomy construction. Only one patient has had a proctectomy, and five still have their colostomy. Of the other 18 patients, continence is normal in 14, there is mucus leakage in two, flatus incontinence in one and faecal incontinence in one. In conclusion, persistent attempts to resolve anal fistulae in difficult cases are frequently successful in the long term and result in good continence. 
In situ DNA hybridization analysis of oral papillomas, leukoplakias, and carcinomas for human papillomavirus. Twenty-one papillomas, 23 ordinary benign keratoses, 13 smokeless tobacco keratoses, 10 verrucous hyperplasias, 10 verrucous carcinomas, 17 squamous cell carcinomas, 3 epithelial dysplasias, and 6 lichen planus lesions were evaluated for human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6/11, 16/18, and 31/33/35, with biotinylated double-stranded DNA probes by in situ hybridization. Sixty-two percent (13/21) of oral squamous papillomas were positive for HPV DNA. HPV DNA types 6 and 11 demonstrated the strongest reactivity. Of the 13 cases, 10 also showed some reactivity with HPV-16/18 and -31/33/35. None of the cases of keratoses, epithelial dysplasia, squamous cell carcinoma, verrucous hyperplasia, verrucous carcinoma, or lichen planus were positive for HPV DNA. This study confirms the consistent and frequent finding of HPV DNA in oral squamous cell papillomas and the inconsistency of being able to identify HPV DNA in keratotic, premalignant, or cancerous lesions of the oral mucous membranes. 
Anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibodies protect against lethal Escherichia coli infection and lethal tumor necrosis factor-alpha challenge in mice. Potentially fatal physiologic and metabolic derangements can occur in response to bacterial infection in animals and man. Recently it has been shown that alterations in the levels of circulating cytokines such as IL-6 and TNF-alpha occur shortly after bacterial challenge. To understand better the role of IL-6 in inflammation, we investigated the effects of in vivo anti-mouse IL-6 antibody treatment in a mouse model of septic shock. Rat anti-mouse IL-6 neutralizing mAb was produced from splenocytes of an animal immunized with mouse rIL-6. This mAb, MP5-20F3, was a very potent and specific antagonist of mouse IL-6 in vitro bioactivity, demonstrated using the NFS60 myelomonocytic and KD83 plasmacytoma target cell lines, and also immunoprecipitated radiolabeled IL-6. Anti-IL-6 mAb pretreatment of mice subsequently challenged with lethal doses of i.p. Escherichia coli or i.v. TNF-alpha protected mice from death caused by these treatments. Pretreatment of E. coli-challenged mice with anti-IL-6 led to an increase in serum TNF bioactivity, in comparison to isotype control antibody, implicating IL-6 as a negative modulator of TNF in vivo. Anti-TNF-alpha treatment of mice challenged i.p. with live E. coli resulted in a 70% decrease in serum IL-6 levels, determined by immunoenzymetric assay, compared to control antibody, thereby supporting a role for TNF-alpha as a positive regulator of IL-6 levels. We conclude that IL-6 is a mediator in lethal E. coli infection, and suggest that antagonists of IL-6 may be beneficial therapeutically in life-threatening bacterial infection. 
Imaging of cystic and cavitary lesions of the spinal cord and canal. The value of MR and intraoperative sonography. This article discusses the utility and technique of magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative spinal sonography in the evaluation of cystic and cavitary lesions of the spinal cord and canal. The pathophysiology and fluid dynamics of these lesions are also discussed. 
Inspiratory muscle relaxation rate after voluntary maximal isocapnic ventilation in humans. We have investigated whether the capacity of the inspiratory muscles to generate pressure and flow during a ventilatory load is related to changes in inspiratory muscle relaxation rate. Five highly motivated normal subjects performed voluntary maximal isocapnic ventilation (MIV) for 2 min. Minute ventilation and esophageal, gastric, and transdiaphragmatic pressures were measured breath by breath. We observed that ventilation, peak inspiratory and expiratory pressures, and inspiratory flow rate declined from the start of the run to reach a plateau at 60 s that was sustained for the remainder of the exercise. In a subsequent series of studies, MIV was performed for variable durations between 15 and 120 s. The normalized maximum relaxation rate of unoccluded inspiratory sniffs (sniff MRR, %pressure loss/10 ms) was determined immediately on stopping MIV. Sniff MRR slowed as the duration of MIV increased and paralleled the decline in inspiratory pressure and ventilation observed during the 2-min exercise. No further slowing in MRR occurred when ventilation became sustainable. We conclude that, during MIV, the progressive loss of ventilation and capacity to generate pressure is associated with the early onset and progression of a peripheral fatiguing process within the inspiratory muscles. 
Clindamycin treatment of chronic pharyngeal carriage of group A streptococci. We previously demonstrated that chronic pharyngeal carriage of group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (GABHS) can be terminated by intramuscular administration of benzathine penicillin plus 4 days of orally administered rifampin. Because an effective oral regimen would be desirable, we compared clindamycin with P + R for treating GABHS carriage. Healthy, symptom-free GABHS carriers were randomly assigned to receive orally administered clindamycin (20 mg/kg per day) three times a day for 10 days or intramuscularly administered benzathine penicillin with oral doses of rifampin (20 mg/kg per day) twice a day for 4 days. Compliance was documented by antibiotic activity in urine. Throat cultures for GABHS were obtained every 3 weeks for up to 9 weeks after treatment. Patients who had positive throat cultures for their original GABHS T type 3 weeks after randomization were crossed over to the other treatment. Treatment success was defined as eradication of the original GABHS T type, with all follow-up cultures negative. Clindamycin eradicated carriage in 24 (92%) of 26 patients; penicillin plus rifampin was effective in 12 (55%) of 22 patients (p less than 0.025). Including patients crossed over 3 weeks after enrollment, clindamycin was effective in 28 (85%) of 33 treatment courses compared with 12 of 22 courses of penicillin plus rifampin (p less than 0.05). We conclude that 10 days of oral clindamycin therapy was significantly more effective than benzathine penicillin plus 4 days of orally administered rifampin for treatment of symptom-free GABHS carriers. 
Linear IgA disease of adults: association with lymphoproliferative malignancy and possible role of other triggering factors. Seventy patients with linear IgA disease of adults were followed up for a mean of 8.5 years and all malignant diseases in this group were ascertained. There were three cases of lymphoproliferative malignancy, which constituted a significant excess over the 0.2 cases that would be expected by comparison with an age- and sex-matched population using National Cancer Registry statistics. In contrast, the non-lymphoid malignancy rate of 13% is almost identical to the expected 14%. A subgroup of 35 of the adult linear IgA disease patients were assessed with respect to the possible precipitating illnesses or drugs, as well as co-existing medical conditions. Almost one-third of patients described an event that was felt could possibly have triggered the linear IgA disease, the most frequent being non-steroidal anti-inflammatory or antibiotic drug therapy, trauma/burns and upper respiratory tract infections. However, it is difficult to determine how often the preceding event is coincidental, and how often, if at all, it is causal. 
Unexplained syncope evaluated by electrophysiologic studies and head-up tilt testing. OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical characteristics of subgroups of patients with unexplained syncope having electrophysiologic studies and head-up tilt testing and to assess the efficacy of various therapies. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Inpatient services of a tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: Eighty-six consecutively referred patients with unexplained syncope. MEASUREMENTS: All patients had electrophysiologic examinations. Patients with negative results subsequently had head-up tilt testing. MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-nine (34%) patients (group 1) had abnormal electrophysiologic results, with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced in 72%. Thirty-four (40%) patients (group 2) had syncope provoked by head-up tilt testing. The cause of syncope remained unexplained in 23 (26%) patients (group 3). Structural heart disease was present in 76%, 6%, and 30% of groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. In group 1, pharmacologic or nonpharmacologic therapy was recommended based on electrophysiologic evaluation. All group 2 patients had negative results on head-up tilt testing while receiving oral beta blockers (27 patients) or disopyramide (7 patients). Group 3 patients did not receive any specific therapy. During a median follow-up period of 18.5 months, syncope recurred in 9 (10%) patients. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of electrophysiologic evaluation and head-up tilt testing can identify the underlying cause of syncope in as many as 74% of patients presenting with unexplained syncope. Therapeutic strategies formulated according to the results of these diagnostic tests appear to prevent syncope effectively in most patients. 
Hepatitis C virus infection in chronic hepatitis B virus carriers. One hundred eighty-four patients with hepatitis B surface antigen-positive chronic hepatitis were evaluated for antibodies to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV). Only 11 (8%) of 136 patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication (HBV-DNA-positive in serum) while 7 (35%) of 20 positive for antibody to hepatitis B e antigen (anti-HBe) but HBV-DNA-negative were positive for anti-HCV. By contrast, anti-HCV was never found in 30 anti-HBe-positive "healthy" carriers. Anti-HCV was more frequent in hepatitis D virus (HDV)-positive than in HDV-negative cases (32% vs. 12%). During 1-11 years of follow-up, anti-HCV persisted in 90% of cases, who showed continuing alanine aminotransferase elevation. Liver histology deteriorated in 2 of 4 anti-HCV-positive, anti-HBe-positive, HBV-DNA-negative patients. These results demonstrate the existence of a subgroup of patients with anti-HBe-positive, HBV-DNA-negative, HDV-negative chronic hepatitis B, where HCV may play a leading role in causing liver disease. 
Impact of left ventricular hypertrophy on ventricular arrhythmias in the absence of coronary artery disease. Left ventricular hypertrophy has a grave prognosis. Ventricular arrhythmias may account for a large portion of this poor prognosis, but the contribution of coronary artery disease has not been excluded. The occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias was investigated by 24 h ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring in 49 hypertensive patients who had normal findings on coronary arteriography. The presence of left ventricular hypertrophy was assessed by both ECG and echocardiography. The frequency and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias were significantly related to the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy whether it was defined by wall thickness (interventricular septum or posterior wall greater than or equal to 1.2 cm) or by left ventricular mass indexed to height (left ventricular mass/height greater than or equal to 163 g/m in men and greater than or equal to 121 g/m in women). The relation between left ventricular mass or wall thickness to ventricular arrhythmia was graded and continuous; for every 1 mm increase in the thickness of interventricular septum or posterior wall there was an associated two- to threefold increase, respectively, in the occurrence and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias. In conclusion, left ventricular hypertrophy is associated with an increase in the frequency and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias in the absence of coronary artery disease, and the relation is graded and continuous. 
Duplex Doppler sonography of the carotid artery: false-positive results in an artery contralateral to an artery with marked stenosis. Anecdotal reports have described a false-positive "jet effect" or velocity increase in the carotid artery contralateral to an artery with significant stenosis or occlusion when using duplex Doppler sonography. In this study, the frequency, significance, and possible reasons for this finding were evaluated by a retrospective comparison of duplex sonography and angiography. Twenty-three patients with unilateral 81-100% carotid artery stenosis who underwent both duplex sonography (16 Acuson, seven Quantum) and angiography were evaluated. In 14 patients, there was an accurate or slight underestimate (less than 20%) of stenosis present in the internal carotid artery contralateral to an artery with tight stenosis/occlusion. In nine, a velocity increase in the internal carotid artery resulted in overestimation (10-80%) of the actual degree of stenosis. In one of these nine patients, real-time images were sufficient to explain the velocity increase on the basis of vessel tortuosity. In one, falsely elevated velocity resulted from inaccurate assignment of the Doppler angle of incidence in a patient in whom real-time visualization of a distal internal carotid lesion was poor. In four of the nine patients, cross filling via the circle of Willis toward the side of greater stenosis occurred. However, seven of 14 patients in whom there was duplex sonography/angiography agreement or slight duplex sonography underestimation also had cross filling. Vertebral artery patency did not correlate well with the presence of a "jet effect." These findings suggest that an increase in blood flow velocity with duplex Doppler sonography in the internal carotid artery on the side opposite an artery with a tight stenosis is a common source of error and is not readily explained by angiographic evidence of collateral flow. 
Exercise echocardiography in the detection of anthracycline cardiotoxicity. Twenty long-term survivors of childhood cancer underwent exercise echocardiography to evaluate possible late anthracycline-induced cardiac toxicity. Ten patients ages 10 to 20 years had received anthracyclines, and ten patients ages 8 to 27 years had not received anthracyclines as part of their medical regimen. Both groups had normal cardiac function at rest. Patients who had not received anthracyclines had a greater increase in M-mode shortening fraction (P less than 0.005), velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (P = 0.05), and Doppler aortic peak flow velocity (P = 0.01) than patients receiving anthracyclines. There were no significant differences in work performed, or increase in heart rate or blood pressure with exercise between the groups. These results suggest that subtle abnormalities in myocardial function exist which become apparent only after exercise in survivors of childhood cancer who have received anthracyclines and have normal resting cardiac function. 
Blood and liver-infiltrating lymphocytes in primary biliary cirrhosis: increase in activated T and natural killer cells and recruitment of primed memory T cells. We used two-color and three-color flow cytometric analysis to study phenotypical activation and functional subsets of T and natural killer cells in the blood and liver tissue of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, other chronic liver diseases and the blood of healthy subjects. The changes in blood lymphocyte phenotype in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases were similar and comprised elevated relative or absolute numbers of activated human leukocyte antigen-DR + T subset (CD4+ and CD8+) cells and DR+ natural killer-like (CD16+) cells. B cell (CD19+) numbers were normal. In primary biliary cirrhosis a selective reduction in T cells of suppressor-inducer (CD45RA + CD4 + ) type was registered. The human leukocyte antigen-DR expression among CD4+ T cell subsets was investigated further in primary biliary cirrhosis and healthy controls using triple antibody flow cytometric analysis. Phenotypical cell activation was confined to helper T cells of the primed, memory (CD45RO + CD4+) type. The decrease in suppressor-inducer T cells in primary biliary cirrhosis was paralleled by a reciprocal increase in primed memory T cells. Several significant differences were observed when blood and liver-infiltrating cells from primary biliary cirrhosis patients were compared. In the liver tissue, the CD4/CD8 ratio was decreased, the relative activation of T-subset cells and NK cells was further increased, the suppressor-inducer T subset was further depressed and the primed memory T subset was increased. The cytotoxic T-cell subset (CD11b-) dominated within the CD8+ population. In liver tissue from other chronic liver disease subjects, a lower CD4/CD8 ratio was found compared with primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Low nm23 protein expression in infiltrating ductal breast carcinomas correlates with reduced patient survival. Protein levels corresponding to nm23 were determined in normal and neoplastic breast tissues by immunoperoxidase staining. Nm23 protein levels were highest in normal breast epithelium, and lower in intraductal carcinomas. Based on nm23 staining, 39 infiltrating ductal carcinomas were separated into two groups: tumors with homogeneously high nm23 protein content, and tumors with low staining in either a homogeneous or heterogeneous pattern. Patients with low nm23 staining tumors, determined by three pathologists independently, had reduced survival times (alpha = 0.034, alpha = 0.012, alpha = 0.052 by the log rank test). Nm23 expression approached significance as an independent predictor of survival in Cox's proportional hazards model. The data provide the first correlation of low nm23 protein expression and reduced breast carcinoma patient survival. 
Effect of chronic D-Ala,2 D-Leu5-enkephalin or pertussis toxin treatment on the high-affinity state of delta opioid receptor in neuroblastoma x glioma NG108-15 hybrid cells. Chronic treatment of neuroblastoma x glioma NG108-15 hybrid cells with the opioid agonist D-Ala,2 D-Leu5-enkephalin (DADLE) induces a homologous desensitization of the delta opioid receptors present in these cells. Since the Kd value of the delta opioid receptor's high-affinity state reflects the potency of the agonist, we examined the effect of receptor desensitization in NG108-15 cells on the percentage of receptor in the high-affinity state. When NG108-15 hybrid cells were treated with 10 or 100 nM DADLE for 4 hr at 24 degrees C, loss of DADLE's ability to inhibit adenylate cyclase was observed. However, when competition binding experiments were carried out with P2P3 membranes isolated from the delta opioid-desensitized hybrid cells, it was determined that 41.7 +/- 3.4% of the total binding sites remained in the high-affinity state, with no apparent alteration in the Kd value of either high- or low-affinity states. Similarly, when NG108-15 cells were treated with 100 ng/ml of pertussis toxin for 3 hr at 37 degrees C, 39.9 +/- 3.6% of the binding sites remained in the high-affinity state. This reduction in the percentage of receptor in high-affinity state was agonist specific, for chronic treatment of hybrid cells with levorphanol, a partial agonist, or the antagonist naloxone did not alter the percentage of opioid receptors in the high-affinity state. Furthermore, the delta opioid receptors remaining in the high-affinity state after chronic DADLE treatment were still sensitive to both Na+ and guanyldylimidodiphosphate, indicating that opioid ligand binding remained coupled to the G-proteins. 
Effects of prolonged inhalation of N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine in rabbits. On the basis of its potent proinflammatory and spasmogenic effects, N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP), a bacterial oligopeptide, is a putative mediator of bronchoconstriction and airway inflammation during bacterial bronchial infection. However, after an FMLP dose-response curve in rabbits, tachyphylaxis to a second challenge was seen in some rabbits and airway inflammation was absent. This study was designed to reproduce the more prolonged airway exposure to FMLP that may occur during bacterial infection. Two groups of rabbits received FMLP [5 mg/ml in 66% dimethyl sulfoxide- (DMSO) saline] or DMSO diluent alone by nebulization every 15 min for 2 h. Pulmonary resistance (RL) was measured at 1 and 2 h. Recovery from bronchoconstriction was also assessed by measuring RL every 30 min for 2 h after the final FMLP administration. Sections of trachea and large bronchi were prepared and graded by quadrant from 0 to 3 for inflammation, a total score from 0 to 12 being given for each section. There was a progressive increase in RL in FMLP-treated rabbits, reaching 68 +/- 9% above baseline after 120 min, a significantly greater change than after diluent, 8 +/- 12% (P less than 0.01). RL remained elevated above baseline for 90 min after the final FMLP dose. Inflammation scores were greater after FMLP than DMSO: 9.3 +/- 0.5 vs. 4.3 +/- 0.7 (P less than 0.01) in trachea and 5.2 +/- 0.4 vs. 1.7 +/- 0.5 (P less than 0.01) in lobar bronchi. We conclude that prolonged exposure of airways to FMLP produces a sustained increase in RL and airway inflammation, the cardinal features of infective exacerbations of chronic airflow limitation. 
Comparison of transrectal ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging in the staging of prostate cancer. A group of 32 patients with a histological diagnosis of prostate cancer underwent transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to stage the disease. TRUS was more sensitive in the detection of tumour and in the detection of direct extracapsular spread. MRI was more sensitive in the detection of tumour involvement of the seminal vesicles and bladder base. MRI allowed the detection of lymphadenopathy and bone metastases in the lumbosacral spine and pelvis. During MRI the short tau inversion recovery (STIR) sequence was found to be particularly useful for the detection of tumour spread. TRUS and MRI are complementary investigations and for the accurate staging of prostatic malignancy both investigations should be used. 
Preliminary vascular control for renal trauma. Preliminary control of the renal vascular pedicle prior to opening Gerota's fascia is advocated as the standard approach for decreasing the rate of nephrectomy from trauma. This method, however, has not been studied widely. Previous reports failed to grade the severity of the renal injury and involved small patient series and historic control for comparison of nephrectomy rates. We studied 297 patients with renal trauma during a ten year period. Sixty-three of 75 patients with penetrating injuries and 12 of 222 patients with blunt injuries underwent renal exploration. We obtained vascular control prior to opening Gerota's fascia in 32 patients; it was obtained in 43 patients after opening Gerota's fascia. The nephrectomy rate depended on the degree of injury rather than on the type of renal vascular control obtained. Obtaining vascular control after opening Gerota's fascia did not increase the nephrectomy rate and shortened operative time by an average of 58 minutes. We recommend vascular control after opening Gerota's fascia when there is a large hematoma crossing the midline, a rapidly expanding renal hematoma, if the patient is unstable, or if Gerota's fascia has already been opened by the injury. 
Magnesium inhibits the hypertensive but not the cardiotonic actions of low-dose epinephrine. Intravenous magnesium supplementation is often used to control cardiac arrhythmias and coronary artery vasospasm resulting from disturbances of magnesium homeostasis after coronary artery bypass surgery. Many such patients also require inotropic drug support of depressed myocardial function. However, increased serum magnesium concentrations directly depress cardiac contractility in animals and may interfere with catecholamine actions. To determine whether small intravenous doses of magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) interfere with the cardiotonic actions of epinephrine, we examined the hemodynamic effects of MgSO4 and epinephrine infusion in 17 cardiac surgical patients on their 1st postoperative day in a prospective, controlled study. In 11 patients, infusion of MgSO4 (7-mg.kg-1 bolus followed by 10 mg.kg-1.h-1 as a continuous infusion) increased serum magnesium concentrations by 44% (mean +/- standard error of the mean [SEM] of 0.8 +/- 0.1 to 1.2 +/- 0.1 mM; P less than 0.01) but had no significant effect on heart rate; mean arterial, central venous, or pulmonary arterial occlusion pressures; or cardiac output. Epinephrine infusion (30 ng.kg-1.min-1) significantly increased cardiac index (2.7 +/- 0.1 to 3.1 +/- 0.21.min-1.m-2; P less than 0.05); this effect was not altered by MgSO4 administration (n = 11). However, MgSO4 significantly blunted epinephrine's hypertensive action and prevented a significant increase in mean arterial pressure during concurrent MgSO4-epinephrine administration. Six placebo control patients were given two sequential infusions of epinephrine separated by a placebo infusion to rule out an effect of time on the hemodynamic response to epinephrine. Mean arterial pressure and cardiac index responses to epinephrine were identical before and after placebo infusion. 
Combined nasal intermittent positive-pressure ventilation and rocking bed in chronic respiratory insufficiency. Nocturnal ventilatory support of a disabled person at home. The use of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation via nasal mask with a rocking bed provided the necessary ventilatory support for a person with quadriplegia living at home. This option was required to maintain an independent life-style of choice. The combination of techniques and the linkage of devices demonstrated an effective use of simple available technology for respiratory care at home and the adaptation of the respiratory prescription to the total needs of each person: medical, social, and financial. The further use of nasal mask ventilation in selected cases is encouraged by clinical research protocol. 
Evidence for a specific role of vasopressin in sustaining pituitary-adrenocortical stress response in the rat. In the adult male Wistar rat a 2-fold 2-min restraint stress exposure, repeated 15 min apart, activated the adrenocortical secretion more than a single one would have. However, in rats with a pharmacological block of the endogenous CRF release, exogenous CRH (0.3 micrograms/kg iv), administered 15 min after a first similar dose, was unable to stimulate pituitary-adrenocortical activity above the level attained with the first peptide injection. On the contrary, in the same conditions exogenous arginine vasopressin (AVP) (0.3 micrograms/kg iv) administered 15 min after CRH, was able to further stimulate pituitary-adrenocortical activity. Using the same experimental procedure, oxytocin (0.3 micrograms/kg iv) was found to be totally inactive. The physiological import of these findings was investigated in the Brattleboro rat, genetically lacking in endogenous AVP, in which, unlike the control Long-Evans strain, the 2-fold stress exposure did not cause an increase in plasma corticosterone concentration greater than that of a single exposure. These results suggest that endogenous AVP is essential in sustaining adrenocortical activation in circumstances in which pituitary refractoriness towards CRH stimulation intervenes. 
Use of folic acid for prevention of spina bifida and other neural tube defects--1983-1991. Neural tube defects--including spina bifida, anencephaly, and encephalocele--are common, serious birth defects that are important causes of infant mortality and disability. Women in the United States who have had a pregnancy resulting in an infant or fetus with a neural tube defect have a 2%-3% risk for having another pregnancy resulting in an infant or fetus with a neural tube defect (i.e., a recurrence) The British Medical Research Council (MRC) Vitamin Study Group recently reported the results of a randomized prevention trial that indicated that daily oral supplementation with folic acid before conception and during early pregnancy substantially reduces the recurrence of neural tube defects. This report summarizes the findings of that study and provides recommendations for supplementation with folic acid to prevent the recurrence of neural tube defects. 
Low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin) vs dextran 70. The prevention of postoperative deep vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. The Danish Enoxaparin Study Group. A prospective randomized study compared the thromboprophylactic efficacy and safety of a low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), enoxaparin (40.6 mg subcutaneously once daily), with a standard regimen of dextran 70 in patients undergoing elective total hip replacement. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by bilateral ascending phlebography 7 to 11 days after operation. Two hundred forty-six patients were included and 219 were eligible for analysis. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed in seven of 108 patients in the LMWH group and in 24 of 111 patients in the dextran group. Clinical symptoms of pulmonary embolism did not develop in any patients during the study. In the postoperative period, patients receiving LMWH had a lower blood loss in drains and required fewer blood transfusions than patients receiving dextran, although no significant differences were noted between the groups with respect to the total number of blood transfusions required. Bleeding events and adverse events did not differ between the groups. None of the patients died in hospital during the study. One patient in the LMWH group died at home 15 days after the operation. Three patients receiving dextran had development of symptomatic deep vein thrombosis after hospital discharge. In conclusion, enoxaparin was a more effective thromboprophylactic than a standard regimen of dextran in patients undergoing total hip replacement. The two regimens were equally safe under the clinical conditions. 
Recurrent kidney stones: causes and diagnostic criteria in patients from Campania (southern Italy). A study was carried out on 180 recurrent kidney stone formers from the Campania region of southern Italy. The data showed that this hypercalciuric population was similar to that in previous studies; however, there was no difference in terms of parathyroid activity when compared with normal controls. The slightly depressed serum levels of vitamin D in hypercalciurics indicate that gut calcium absorption is not directly related to vitamin D levels. We found no difference in the prevalence of metabolic abnormalities associated with stone formation between the patients in this series and those in previous studies. 
Increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor number in chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Production of the antiviral cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha is increased in chronic hepatitis B virus infection, and clinical studies of tumor necrosis factor-alpha have indicated a proviral effect at higher doses. To determine whether this might be related to abnormal cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor expression, binding characteristics of cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor on peripheral blood mononuclear cells in chronic hepatitis B virus carriers were studied using radioiodinated recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha. The specific binding curves generated were analyzed according to the method of Scatchard to determine cell surface receptor numbers and dissociation constants. A single class of cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets. The median number (range) of cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from controls (n = 11), chronic hepatitis B virus patients seropositive for hepatitis B virus DNA (n = 8) and seronegative for hepatitis B virus DNA (n = 8) were 2,329 (range = 1,538 to 3,133), 3,375 (range = 2,300 to 6,718) (p less than 0.01) and 3,113 (range = 2,229 to 5,246) (p less than 0.05) sites/cell, respectively. They all had similar dissociation constants of 8.4 x 10(-10) mol/L (range = 4.1 to 16.9), respectively. Further dissection of the peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed that this increase in cell surface receptor number was confined to the monocyte fraction (p less than 0.01). Plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels in five patients with increased monocyte cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor numbers were also elevated. 
Intratemporal facial nerve hemangiomas. Facial nerve hemangiomas are benign vascular tumors that arise within the temporal bone and have a histologic appearance similar to both cavernous hemangiomas and vascular malformations. In contrast to facial nerve schwannomas, these are extraneural tumors that cause symptoms by compression and tend to produce deficits when very small in size. We report our experience at the House Ear Clinic with 34 patients having these nonglomus intratemporal vascular tumors. Hemangiomas arising in the internal auditory canal tend to produce a progressive sensorineural hearing loss and are demonstrated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), whereas those at the geniculate ganglion are usually first seen with facial nerve symptoms and may require high-resolution computerized tomography (CT) for detection. Facial electromyography is helpful in establishing the diagnosis. Because of their extraneural nature, early diagnosis can permit removal of the tumor with preservation of facial nerves in some patients. 
Cellular ions in hypertension, diabetes, and obesity. A nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic study. To investigate the cellular basis linking hypertension, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), and obesity, we used 31P and 19F nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure intracellular pH (pHi), free magnesium (Mgi), and cytosolic free calcium (Cai) in erythrocytes of obese and NIDDM subjects with and without hypertension. Compared with normotensive, nondiabetic controls (Cai, 25.2 +/- 1.4 nM; Mgi, 232 +/- 8 microM), Cai was elevated in both normotensive (36.8 +/- 2.7 nM, sig = 0.005) and hypertensive (43.4 +/- 2.9 nM, sig = 0.001) NIDDM subjects, and Mgi was concomitantly suppressed (normotensive: 206 +/- 11 microM, sig = 0.05; hypertensive: 196 +/- 8 microM, sig = 0.001). Similar but less striking changes were noted in obese subjects. Values of pHi were significantly lower (sig = 0.05) in all hypertensive groups compared with their normotensive controls. Continuous relations were observed for all subjects between Cai and diastolic blood pressure (r = 0.649, p less than 0.001) and body mass index (r = 0.565, p less than 0.001), between Mgi and diastolic blood pressure (r = -0.563, p less than 0.001) and fasting blood glucose (r = -0.580, p less than 0.001), and in diabetics, between pHi and diastolic blood pressure (r = -0.680, p less than 0.001). Thus, the constellation of elevated Cai and suppressed Mgi and pHi levels is characteristic of the hypertensive state. These abnormalities of cellular ion handling in whole or in part common to hypertension, diabetes, and obesity may contribute to the pathophysiology of these syndromes and may help to explain their frequent clinical coexistence. 
Oxygen radicals generated at reflow induce peroxidation of membrane lipids in reperfused hearts. To test whether generation of oxygen radicals during postischemic reperfusion might promote peroxidation of cardiac membrane lipids, four groups of Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts were processed at the end of (a) control perfusion, (b) 30 min of total global ischemia at 37 degrees C without reperfusion, (c) 30 min of ischemia followed by reperfusion with standard perfusate, (d) 30 min of ischemia followed by reperfusion with the oxygen radical scavenger human recombinant superoxide dismutase (h-SOD). The left ventricle was homogenized and tissue content of malonyldialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation, was measured on the whole homogenate as well as on various subcellular fractions. Reperfusion was accompanied by a significant increase in MDA content of the whole homogenate and of the fraction enriched in mitochondria and lysosomes. This phenomenon was not observed in hearts subjected to ischemia but not reperfused, and was similarly absent in those hearts which received h-SOD at reflow. Reperfused hearts also had significantly greater levels of conjugated dienes (another marker of lipid peroxidation) in the mitochondrial-lysosomal fraction. Again, this phenomenon did not occur in ischemic hearts or in reperfused hearts treated with h-SOD. Unlike the effect on tissue MDA and conjugated dienes, reperfusion did not significantly stimulate release of MDA in the cardiac effluent. Treatment with h-SOD was also associated with significant improvement in the recovery of cardiac function. In conclusion, these data directly demonstrate that postischemic reperfusion results in enhanced lipid peroxidation of cardiac membranes, which can be blocked by h-SOD, and therefore is most likely secondary to oxygen radical generation at reflow. 
Physician practices in the prevention of venous thromboembolism. OBJECTIVE: To determine the rate of use of prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism in high-risk hospital patients. DESIGN: A retrospective medical record review. SETTING: A community-wide study in 16 short-stay hospitals in central Massachusetts. PATIENTS: A total of 2017 patients with multiple risk factors for venous thromboembolism. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: On the basis of age, length of hospitalization, and the presence of at least one additional major risk factor, 17% of 151,349 discharges (25,410 patients) were identified as being at high risk for venous thromboembolism. Eight percent of these discharges were randomly selected for medical record review. Prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism was received by 32% of these high-risk patients. Prophylaxis use among the 16 study hospitals varied widely, ranging from 9% to 56%, and was higher in teaching hospitals than in nonteaching hospitals (44% compared with 19%; P less than 0.001). One or more of the following methods of prophylaxis was used: low-dose heparin (78%), intermittent calf compression (13%), warfarin (12%), and inferior vena caval filter (3%). Use of prophylaxis increased with the number of risk factors identified (P less than 0.001). CONCLUSION: Prophylaxis for venous thromboemobolism is underused, particularly in nonteaching hospitals. 
Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation support in the high-risk cardiac patient undergoing urgent noncardiac surgery. Patients with a recent myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, sever angina, or uncorrected multivessel coronary artery disease are at increased risk of cardiac complications after major noncardiac surgery. Although invasive hemodynamic monitoring and preoperative optimization of cardiac status may lead to some reduction in the rate of perioperative cardiac events, the mortality from such events remains high. We report our experience with the use of perioperative intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in eight patients with unstable coronary syndromes or severe coronary artery disease who underwent urgent noncardiac surgery. There were no perioperative cardiac events while the intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) was in place. There were two postoperative cardiac events (non-fatal myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure) in the first postoperative week after the IABP was removed. One patient required emergent femoral thrombectomy as a result of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation and subsequently died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation should be considered as an adjunct to maintain hemodynamic stability for the high-risk cardiac patient about to undergo urgent or emergent noncardiac surgery. 
The short test of mental status. Correlations with standardized psychometric testing. The Short Test of Mental Status can be administered to patients in inpatient and outpatient settings in approximately 5 minutes, and it contains items that test orientation, attention, immediate recall, arithmetic, abstraction, construction, information, and delayed (approximately 3 minutes) recall. The test was administered to a group of demented community patients and their age- and sex-matched control subjects. Using an age-adjusted approach, sensitivity of the test to identifying dementia is 86.4, with a specificity of 93.5. The test was compared with standardized tests of cognitive function such as the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Mattis Dementia Scale, and the Auditory Verbal Learning Test, and showed a high degree of correlation. Group means and standard deviations for subtest items and total score are presented for control subjects (n = 138), demented patients (n = 130), and patients with memory impairment only (n = 20). Percentile scores for subtest items in control subjects are also provided. 
Diagnostic accuracy and clinical utility of thermography for lumbar radiculopathy. A meta-analysis. The role of thermography for diagnosing lumbar radiculopathy was evaluated by literature review and meta-analysis. From 81 relevant citations, 28 studies could be analyzed for diagnostic-accuracy data (sensitivity and specificity) and method. Diagnostic-accuracy data varied significantly between studies; therefore meaningful pooled summary statistics could not be reported. Twenty-seven studies had major methodologic flaws including biased test interpretations, faulty cohort assembly, poor clinical descriptions, and small sample size. The only study of reasonably high quality found no discriminant value for liquid-crystal thermography. The role of thermography remains unclear. Rigorous clinical research is required to establish its diagnostic accuracy and clinical utility. Thermography cannot be recommended currently for routine clinical use in evaluating low-back pain. 
Eosinophilic cystitis in children. Eosinophilic cystitis is an uncommon inflammatory disorder of the urinary bladder which causes irritative voiding symptoms and may mimic rhabdomyosarcoma radiographically. In children, eosinophilic cystitis has been previously reported to be self-limiting and requires no specific therapy. Reported herein is a case of a nine-year-old girl in whom eosinophilic cystitis recurred following antireflux surgery, raising the question of an association of eosinophilic cystitis with local trauma such as bladder surgery. Consideration should be given to pretreatment with steroids and antihistamines prior to surgery in these patients. 
Dysrhythmias and blood pressure changes associated with thrombolysis. Recent technologic advances facilitate salvage of viable myocardium before the process of myocardial infarction is complete. The aim of thrombolytic agents is to restore antegrade flow of blood in occluded coronary arteries. The process of reperfusion may be dysrhythmogenic because of the heterogeneous return of electrical activity in myocardial cells. This study examined the incidence and type of dysrhythmia occurrence and the associated changes in mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) during infusion of tissue-type plasminogen activator (TPA). A retrospective chart review of 41 subjects showed that 80% of subjects experienced dysrhythmias during TPA therapy. The most common dysrhythmia was sinus bradycardia, followed by idioventricular/accelerated idioventricular rhythm, ventricular premature beats, and ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation. There was a significant difference between MAP changes when there were no dysrhythmias and MAP changes when dysrhythmias occurred (p less than 0.05). The largest change in MAP (-22.71 mm Hg) was observed when dysrhythmias occurred in those subjects with blockage of the left anterior descending artery, although there was no statistically significant difference in changes in MAP among the groups of different sites of blockage (p greater than 0.05). 
Cytogenetic abnormalities associated with renal cell carcinoma. Cytogenetic analysis was performed on 23 renal cell carcinomas (21 sporadic and 2 associated with von Hippel-Lindau's disease). Clonal chromosomal abnormalities were found in 19 of 21 of the sporadic tumors. The most frequent abnormalities were a loss or rearrangement of material in 3p (11 of 21 cases) or an extra chromosome 7 (7 of 21 cases). Correlation between specific chromosomal abnormalities and clinical presentation was absent with the exception of trisomy 7 and -Y, which occurred only in patients more than 60 years old. An increasing number of cytogenetic abnormalities were associated with a greater likelihood of renal vein and/or capsule involvement. Both patients with von Hippel-Lindau's disease had tumors with a normal karyotype. 
Common bile duct distensibility after cholecystectomy. To assess the possibility of common bile duct distensibility after cholecystectomy, we made a retrospective study of patients who had ultrasonography and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). The study comprised 52 patients without extrahepatic biliary obstruction; 19 had had cholecystectomy, 18 of whom complained of biliary colic similar to that they had had originally. The other 33 patients had intact, well visualized gallbladders; 15 of these patients had pain in the right upper quadrant or epigastrium, but none had chronic pancreatitis. The average diameter of the common bile duct at its widest point by ultrasonography was 4.8 mm (range, 4.0 to 9.0 mm) in the 33 patients with intact gallbladders, and 5.7 mm (range, 4.0 to 8.0 mm) in the 19 patients who had had cholecystectomy. The diameter by ERCP was 4.4 mm (range, 2.9 to 6.3 mm) in the patients with intact gallbladders, and 11.17 mm (range, 6.9 to 14.7 mm) in the patients who had had cholecystectomy. In each patient who had had cholecystectomy the diameter as measured by ERCP was larger than it appeared by ultrasonography. The results suggest that the common bile duct is distensible, and that this distensibility may be related to the postcholecystectomy syndrome. 
Long-term efficacy of oral cisapride in symptomatic upper gut dysmotility. We conducted a 12-month trial of cisapride (10 mg three times a day) in 21 patients with gastric stasis due to clinically and manometrically diagnosed gastroparesis (N = 9; seven due to diabetes) or chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (N = 12). Radionuclide solid-liquid gastric emptying tests were performed at baseline and at the end of the 12-month period. Symptoms were assessed monthly by diary and every three months by the investigators; frequency and severity of symptoms were scored in a standardized manner. For the whole group of 21 patients, gastric emptying of both solids and liquids improved significantly after one year of cisapride (P less than 0.05). Among chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction patients, there was predominantly an improvement in gastric emptying of solids; in contrast, patients with gastroparesis had a greater improvement in liquid emptying. Total symptom score improved significantly in the gastroparesis group (median score: 8 at baseline vs 6 at one year, P less than 0.05) but not in the chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction patients (median score at baseline 10 vs 9 at one year). Similarly, body weight showed a trend towards improvement in the gastroparesis group. No significant side effects were noted. We conclude that during a 12-month open trial, cisapride was effective in improving gastric emptying in patients with gastric stasis and consistently improved symptoms in those with gastroparesis. 
HELLP syndrome: a case report with guidelines for diagnosis and management. A 25-yr-old patient with a twin pregnancy of 34 weeks gestation developed HELLP syndrome and required urgent delivery by Caesarean section. Before operation, a central venous catheter and urinary catheter were inserted, and fresh frozen plasma and platelets were administered to correct hypovolaemia and severe thrombocytopenia. This case demonstrates the critical condition of these patients before operation and that extensive preoperative preparation and invasive monitoring are necessary for successful management. The choice of anaesthetic is governed by the presence of liver and renal dysfunction and severe thrombocytopenia. 
Expression of natriuretic peptide in ventricular myocardium of failing human hearts and its correlation with the severity of clinical and hemodynamic impairment. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) was immunohistochemically investigated in (1) right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy specimens from 87 apparently healthy donor hearts taken from victims of cerebral accidents; (2) 1 normal heart not suitable for transplantation (HBsAg carrier); (3) right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy specimens from 151 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DC); and (4) 57 explanted hearts, 26 with DC and 31 with ischemic heart disease. No ANP immunoreactivity was found in normal ventricles. Failing hearts showed ventricular positivity in 31% of the DC biopsy series, in 61% of the left ventricles, and in 30% of the right ventricles of the explanted heart series. An endoepicardial gradient was observed, because ANP positivity was greater and more extensive in the subendocardial layers. Ultrastructural studies were performed on biopsy specimens from 10 normal hearts and 132 DC biopsy samples. No ANP-storing granules were found in biopsy samples of normal ventricles, whereas ANP granules were seen in 15 of 132 (11.4%) DC cases. In parallel immunoblotting, investigation showed the same 13 kDa band protein in 1 normal atrium as well as in 8 failing atria and ventricles. ANP immunoreactivity was positively correlated with higher New York Heart Association functional classes as well as with higher left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (p less than 0.005), end-diastolic volume (p less than 0.005) and end-diastolic volume index (p less than 0.005). In conclusion, apparently healthy ventricles do not show ANP immunoreactivity, whereas failing ventricles do. ANP expression seems to be independent of the underlying disease, but positively related to the clinical status and the degree of left ventricular impairment and dilatation. 
High-energy proton beam radiation therapy for gynecologic malignancies. Potential of proton beam as an alternative to brachytherapy. Fifteen patients with advanced gynecologic malignancies were treated with high-energy proton beam radiation therapy (RT) at the Particle Radiation Medical Science Center (PARMS), Tsukuba University, Japan, from 1983 to 1987. The potential of proton beam RT as an alternative to conventional brachytherapy was evaluated. Except for one local recurrence, 14 of 15 patients were locoregionally controlled for 15 to 57 months. Two-year local control rate and 2-year survival rate were 92.3% and 93.3%, respectively. Two cases of transient, radiation-induced proctitis (neither of which required surgical treatment) were the only complications despite a target dose that exceeded 8000 cGy in most cases. The results suggest that sharply localized, high-dose proton beam RT can produce an antitumor effect equivalent to that of conventional brachytherapy. 
Propafenone disposition and pharmacodynamics in normal and norepinephrine-induced cardiomyopathic rabbit hearts. The myocardial disposition and pharmacodynamics of propafenone were studied in 10 normal and 10 norepinephrine-induced cardiomyopathic rabbit hearts. The left ventricular propafenone concentrations measured after perfusion of propafenone (0.3 microM) for 150 min were similar in the normal group (18 +/- 8 micrograms/g) compared to the cardiomyopathy group (20 +/- 5 micrograms/g, P = NS). However, the concentration of propafenone in cardiomyopathic left ventricular papillary muscle, which was always extensively involved in the inflammatory process, was significantly lower (11 +/- 2 micrograms/g) compared to normal papillary muscle (19 +/- 4 micrograms/g, P less than .05). During propafenone perfusion a significantly greater increment in ventricular conduction time was observed in the cardiomyopathy group (17 +/- 6 msec) compared to the normal group (12 +/- 3 msec, P less than .05). The propafenone myocardial concentration-effect relationships describing changes in QRS duration were shifted to the left in the cardiomyopathy group. Furthermore, the slopes of these linear concentration-effect relationships were greater in the cardiomyopathy group (1.80 +/- 0.60 msec/micrograms/g) compared to the normal group (1.07 +/- 0.25 msec/micrograms/g, P less than .01). The ventricular effective refractory period was shorter at base line in the cardiomyopathy hearts (156 +/- 21 msec) compared to the normal group (176 +/- 23 msec, P less than .08). However, propafenone effects on changes in the ventricular effective refractory period were similar in the two groups. Thus, the myocardial accumulation of propafenone is reduced in areas of extensive necrosis observed in norepinephrine-induced cardiomyopathy. As well, cardiomyopathic tissue is more responsive to propafenone effects on ventricular conduction time. 
Roles of adenosine and theophylline on the recovery of adenine nucleotides in postischemic cultured renal tubular cells. The effect of adenosine (ADO) on the recovery of cellular adenine nucleotides (AN) was evaluated in the cultured cells deprived of oxygen and substrates (ischemia) and in nonischemic cells (control). The primary cultured cells were obtained from microdissected rabbit proximal straight tubules. Ten-day-old cultured cells were made ischemic for 6 hr, and allowed to recover for 24 hr. At the end of ischemia, cells were incubated with ADO, theophylline (T), dipyridamole (D), coformycin (C) or combined agents for 3 hr. Total AN (TAN) were determined after 3 and 24 hr of recovery. The results, after 3 hr of incubation, suggest that in both control and ischemic cells, ADO is taken up by cultured cells and is preferentially converted to nucleotides. This effect is blocked by D, which inhibits ADO uptake, uninfluenced by C, which inhibits ADO deaminase and potentiated by T, which inhibits 5'-nucleotidase. After 24 hr of recovery, the beneficial effects of ADO alone or combined D, C, or T, on TAN were not seen in control cells. In contrast, in the ischemic cells, after 24 hr of recovery, ADO + T normalized ATP, ADP and TAN to the preischemic levels. T alone significantly increased ATP after 24 hr of recovery. To demonstrate further that the beneficial effect of T is due to inhibition of 5'-nucleotidase, cells were treated with adenosine alpha, beta-methylene diphosphate in the same manner as T. Combined ADO + adenosine alpha, beta-methylene diphosphate normalized ATP, ADP and TAN after 24 hr of recovery. This finding suggests that inhibition of 5'-nucleotidase improves postischemic AN. 
Interactive effects of ST-T wave abnormalities on survival of patients with coronary artery disease. Previous studies have documented a reduced survival time in patients with an electrocardiographic (ECG) ST-T wave abnormality. This study was designed to determine the clinical, hemodynamic and angiographic correlates of this observation. Data from 9,731 patients undergoing cardiac catheterization from 1976 through 1986 were analyzed; 5,531 had severe (greater than 70%) obstruction of at least one major coronary artery, 1,706 had mild (10 to 69%) obstruction and 2,494 had no obstruction. Of the patients with severe obstruction, 2,536 were treated medically and 2,995 were treated by surgical revascularization. Patients with an ST-T abnormality had more clinical risk factors (including older age and greater prevalence of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and prior myocardial infarction) and greater left ventricular dysfunction (including higher end-diastolic pressure and ventricular volume, reduced ejection fraction and greater prevalence of contraction abnormality) than did those without this ECG pattern. Survival time was significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced in subsets of patients with an ST-T abnormality and with severe or mild coronary artery disease; in those without coronary disease, ST-T changes did not correlate with reduced survival. Stepwise regression analysis was applied to each group to determine the independent predictors of 5-year survival. In patients with severe disease or no disease, an ST-T abnormality was not chosen as an independent predictor of 5-year survival; in the group with mild disease, ST-T changes were an independent predictor of reduced survival. Thus, the independent impact of an ST-T abnormality on survival is dependent on the severity of underlying coronary artery disease. 
The effect of preoperative flurbiprofen on miosis produced by acetylcholine during cataract surgery. Sustained pupillary dilation during cataract surgery may be achieved with preoperative noncorticosteroidal anti-inflammatory agents such as flurbiprofen. However, these agents may interfere with miosis after injection of acetylcholine. Thirty patients for extracapsular cataract extraction were randomly assigned in a double-masked fashion to receive either a placebo or preoperative 0.03% flurbiprofen every 30 minutes for four doses. All patients also received three doses of 2.5% phenylephrine and 2% cyclopentolate. Pupillary diameter was measured the day before surgery, immediately before the surgical incision, immediately before and five minutes after acetylcholine injection, and the morning after surgery. The flurbiprofen group had a larger mean pupillary diameter before injection of acetylcholine (P less than .001), five minutes after acetylcholine (P less than .001), and on the first postoperative day (P less than .005). 
Prevalence of asthma in Melbourne schoolchildren: changes over 26 years. OBJECTIVES--To determine the prevalence of asthma in the past 12 months in Melbourne schoolchildren aged 7, 12, and 15 years and to compare the prevalence of a history of asthma with that of 26 years ago. DESIGN--A questionnaire on respiratory symptoms was distributed to children for completion by parents and return to the school. Subjects were selected by a stratified cluster design. SETTING--Government and non-government schools in the greater Melbourne area, Australia. SUBJECTS--10,981 children. Parents completed questionnaires for 3324 children aged 7, 2899 aged 12, and 2968 aged 15. The overall response rate was 90%. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--History of wheeze or asthma in the past 12 months and in lifetime. RESULTS--The prevalences of wheeze in the past 12 months were 23.1%, 21.7%, and 18.6% for 7, 12, and 15 year olds respectively. A history of wheeze was more common in boys than in girls at age 7 (443/1711 v 324/1614) and 12 (418/1767 v 322/1718) but not at age 15. Overall, 78% (1548) of those reporting wheeze also reported a history of asthma and 83% (1611) had used a bronchodilator. The prevalence of a history of asthma among 7 year olds was 46% compared with 19.1% in the 1964 survey, an increase of 141%. CONCLUSIONS--The current prevalence of asthma in Melbourne schoolchildren is high and has risen substantially over the past 26 years. 
'Role of bone marrow stromal cells in the growth of human multiple myeloma. We have verified the hypothesis that multiple myeloma (MM) may be disseminated by circulating clonogenic cells that selectively home to the bone marrow (BM) to receive the signal(s) leading to proliferation, terminal differentiation, and production of the osteoclast activating factors. Long-term cultures of stromal cells have been developed from the BM of nine patients with MM. These cells were mostly fibroblast-like elements, interspersed with a proportion of scattered macrophages and rare osteoclasts. BM stromal cells were CD54+, produced high levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and measurable amounts of IL-1 beta, and were used as feeder layers for autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). After 3 weeks of cocultures, monoclonal B lymphocytes and plasma cells, derived from PBMC, developed and the number of osteoclasts significantly increased. Both populations grew tightly adherent to the stromal cell layer and their expansion was matched by a sharp increase of IL-6 and by the appearance of IL-3 in the culture supernatant. These data attribute to BM stromal cells a critical role in supporting the growth of B lymphocytes, plasma cells, and osteoclasts and the in vivo dissemination of MM. 
Irreducible inguinal hernia in children below two years of age Eighty-five cases of irreducible inguinal hernia in children below 2 years of age were reviewed. Non-operative treatment was successful in 71 (84 per cent); 14 children required emergency surgery. The younger the child and the longer the duration of symptoms at presentation, the worse was the outcome of non-operative treatment. In 35 (41 per cent) children the diagnosis of inguinal hernia had been made before irreducibility. There is an increased incidence of postoperative complication associated with irreducibility, especially in preterm infants. Early diagnosis of inguinal hernia in young children and prompt referral for surgery is recommended. 
Rickettsial meningitis and encephalitis. Nine of 72 patients with scrub typhus and three of 137 with murine typhus presented with meningitis and/or encephalitis syndromes. Focal neurologic signs were rare, and cerebrospinal fluid profiles were similar to those of leptospirosis and viral and tuberculous meningitis. One patient had papilledema, and another had cerebellitis. Other major organ involvement (renal, liver, or lungs) occurred in five patients. One patient died and four spontaneously recovered, while the conditions of the rest responded well to either chloramphenicol or doxycycline. Scrub and murine typhus should be included in the differential diagnoses of aseptic meningitis and encephalitis in patients exposed to endemic areas, especially when accompanied by renal insufficiency and/or jaundice. They are treatable forms of virallike meningoencephalitis. 
Beneficial effect of carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with high-grade carotid stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators BACKGROUND. Without strong evidence of benefit, the use of carotid endarterectomy for prophylaxis against stroke rose dramatically until the mid-1980s, then declined. Our investigation sought to determine whether carotid endarterectomy reduces the risk of stroke among patients with a recent adverse cerebrovascular event and ipsilateral carotid stenosis. METHODS. We conducted a randomized trial at 50 clinical centers throughout the United States and Canada, in patients in two predetermined strata based on the severity of carotid stenosis--30 to 69 percent and 70 to 99 percent. We report here the results in the 659 patients in the latter stratum, who had had a hemispheric or retinal transient ischemic attack or a nondisabling stroke within the 120 days before entry and had stenosis of 70 to 99 percent in the symptomatic carotid artery. All patients received optimal medical care, including antiplatelet therapy. Those assigned to surgical treatment underwent carotid endarterectomy performed by neurosurgeons or vascular surgeons. All patients were examined by neurologists 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after entry and then every 4 months. End points were assessed by blinded, independent case review. No patient was lost to follow-up. RESULTS. Life-table estimates of the cumulative risk of any ipsilateral stroke at two years were 26 percent in the 331 medical patients and 9 percent in the 328 surgical patients--an absolute risk reduction (+/- SE) 17 +/- 3.5 percent (P less than 0.001). For a major or fatal ipsilateral stroke, the corresponding estimates were 13.1 percent and 2.5 percent--an absolute risk reduction of 10.6 +/- 2.6 percent (P less than 0.001). Carotid endarterectomy was still found to be beneficial when all strokes and deaths were included in the analysis (P less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. Carotid endarterectomy is highly beneficial to patients with recent hemispheric and retinal transient ischemic attacks or nondisabling strokes and ipsilateral high-grade stenosis (70 to 99 percent) of the internal carotid artery. 
Isolated atrial infarction in a patients with single vessel disease of the sinus node artery. Atrial infarction is found in approximately 17 percent of autopsy-proven cases of myocardial infarction, but is a frequently missed clinical diagnosis. The antemortem diagnosis of atrial infarction occurring in the absence of ventricular infarction has not been previously reported. We present a patient with ischemic chest discomfort associated with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Electrocardiographic and enzymatic changes were consistent with atrial infarction. Cardiac catheterization demonstrated single vessel critical stenosis at the origin of the sinus node artery. Combined atrial and ventricular infarction occurs frequently and should be considered in the setting of paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias occurring early in the course of ventricular myocardial infarction. Lone atrial infarction is a rare but distinct clinical entity. The tetrad of typical ischemic chest discomfort, paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmia, P-Ta segment shifts, and elevated cardiac enzyme levels without evidence for ventricular infarction strongly suggests isolated atrial infarction. 
Alcohol consumption and risk of coronary heart disease. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the hypothesis that the apparent protective effect of habitual alcohol consumption on coronary heart disease is due to drinkers at high risk of coronary heart disease becoming non-drinkers. DESIGN--Case-control population based study. Data were obtained from interviews with patients with non-fatal myocardial infarction and their controls and with the next of kin of those who had died of coronary heart disease and their controls. SETTING--Auckland, New Zealand. SUBJECTS--Two groups of cases were studied. The first comprised 227 men and 72 women with non-fatal myocardial infarction identified from a population based surveillance programme for coronary heart disease; controls were 525 men and 341 women randomly selected from the same population group and matched for age and sex. The second group comprised 128 men and 30 women who had died of coronary heart disease and had been identified from the surveillance programme; controls were a sample of the previous control group and comprised 330 men and 214 women matched for age and sex. All participants were aged 25-64 years and without diagnosed coronary heart disease. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Regular alcohol consumption; high density lipoprotein cholesterol and low density lipoprotein concentrations. RESULTS--Men with myocardial infarction and men who had died of coronary heart disease were more likely to have been never drinkers (had never drunk more than once a month) than controls (18% v 12% and 23% v 13% respectively). After possible confounding factors had been controlled for, people in all categories of drinking (up to more than 56 drinks per week) had at least a 40% reduction in risk of fatal and non-fatal coronary heart disease compared with never drinkers. Former drinkers also had a lower risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction than never drinkers (relative risks 0.41 and 0.10 in men and women respectively) but a similar risk of death from coronary heart disease. The reduction in risk was consistently greater in women than in men in all drinking categories but there was no clear dose-response effect in either sex. CONCLUSIONS--The results support the hypothesis that light and moderate alcohol consumption reduces the risk of coronary heart disease. This protective effect in this population was not due to the misclassification of former drinkers with a high risk of coronary heart disease as non-drinkers. 
Corticobasal degeneration. A unique pattern of regional cortical oxygen hypometabolism and striatal fluorodopa uptake demonstrated by positron emission tomography. Corticobasal degeneration presents with an asymmetric akinetic-rigid syndrome, apraxia and combinations of supranuclear gaze palsy, myoclonus, and an alien limb. Six patients aged 59-77 yrs, diagnosed on clinical criteria as having corticobasal degeneration, have been studied with positron emission tomography using tracers of dopamine storage capacity and oxygen metabolism. Striatal 18F-6-fluorodopa uptake was reduced in an asymmetric pattern, caudate and putamen being involved in all cases. Uptake into medial frontal cortex was also impaired. Regional cortical oxygen metabolism was most significantly depressed in the superior and posterior temporal, inferior parietal, and occipital associated cortices. Within the frontal lobe, the hypometabolism was chiefly posterior. This unique combination of regional hypometabolism and disruption of the nigrostriatal system is discussed in relation to the clinical features of the disease and is compared with reported findings in other disorders of cognition and movement. 
Trends in use of coronary angiography in subacute phase of myocardial infarction. BACKGROUND. Most patients do not undergo acute reperfusion after myocardial infarction, and which of these patients should undergo coronary angiography is still debated. METHODS AND RESULTS. We analyzed the 1-year clinical outcomes and rates of coronary angiography performed as late as 60 days after myocardial infarction in 3,804 patients admitted between 1979 and 1988 and followed in six different centers. Patients less than 75 years old were classified into low-, medium-, and high-risk groups using a multivariate analysis of historical and clinical variables gathered during the first 8 hospital days. Patients who underwent early reperfusion (17%, all after 1984) were analyzed separately. To analyze time trends, patients were compared before and after mid-1984. Mortalities from day 9 through 1 year were similar for the two time periods in the low- (3.3% versus 2.5%) and medium-risk (7.4% versus 5.6%) groups, but mortality was lower for the high-risk group after 1984 (31.6% versus 20.0%). The proportion of patients undergoing coronary angiography increased dramatically in each group after 1984 (low risk, 18% versus 48%; medium risk, 23% versus 49%; high risk, 10% versus 32%, before and after 1984, respectively). Furthermore, a large percentage of patients (more than 40%) in the low-risk group did not have at least one of the indications for coronary angiography recently recommended by a joint task force. Among patients undergoing coronary angiography, the proportion of patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease decreased after 1984, whereas the proportion undergoing mechanical revascularization in the year after infarction increased in all risk groups. CONCLUSIONS. Despite the recent development of noninvasive techniques with high sensitivity for detecting high-risk patients after myocardial infarction, coronary angiography is being performed increasingly in all patients, including those determined to be at low risk for complications based on clinical data. The economic consequences of such a trend could be considerable, and its impact requires careful analysis. 
Gastric carcinoma in patients with Crohn disease: report of four cases. An association between Crohn disease and gastric carcinoma has not been described before. However, we report four patients with documented Crohn disease in whom gastric carcinoma developed later. In three of the four patients, onset of Crohn disease occurred after the age of 40. All of the patients had nonspecific constitutional symptoms and/or complaints referable to the upper gastrointestinal tract. No clinical evidence of active Crohn disease was present. In each patient, barium examination and CT showed either a mass (two cases) or other radiologic features of malignancy (two cases). Endoscopy with biopsy was performed in three patients and findings were misleading in two patients. The possibility of an increased risk of malignancy in sites remote from inflamed bowel segments has been reported. The findings in this study suggest that patients with Crohn disease, particularly disease of late onset, may be predisposed to the development of gastric carcinoma. 
Use of recombinant human interleukin-2 in conjunction with syngeneic bone marrow transplantation in mice as a model for control of minimal residual disease in malignant hematologic disorders. Unlike allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT), autologous BMT is not accompanied by immune-mediated graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effects; hence, the relapse rate observed after autologous BMT in malignant hematologic disorders is higher than that observed after allogeneic BMT. Autologous BMT represents a much safer medical procedure available for many patients in need in situations where allogeneic BMT is not feasible or risky. The present experiments were designed to investigate whether it might be possible to combine the therapeutic benefits of autologous BMT with additional immunotherapy after BMT. The tumor model used for investigating GVL effects was the murine B-cell leukemia (BCL1), a spontaneous, nonimmunogenic, highly lethal leukemia of BALB/c origin. BALB/c mice inoculated with 10(3) BCL1 leukemia cells were treated on day-1 with cyclophosphamide 100 mg/kg and transplanted with normal syngeneic BM cells on day 0. High-dose recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) (100,000 Cetus units x 3/day intraperitoneally x 5 consecutive days) was initiated on day +1, +7, or +21 after BMT. Kinetics of lymphocyte reconstitution after syngeneic BMT indicated a steep increase in the absolute number of peripheral blood lymphocytes on days 17 through 24. All experimental groups were observed for relapse. Mice receiving no rIL-2 therapy relapsed and died within 50 days after BMT, whereas mice receiving rIL-2 showed long-term disease-free survival. Optimal time for administration of rIL-2 was noted at 3 weeks post-BMT, with 90% of the mice surviving with no evidence of disease for more than 1 year. Similarly, when 10(4) BCL1 cells were given 1 day after syngeneic BMT to simulate minimal residual disease after syngeneic BMT, rIL-2 therapy administered at 14 days post-BMT seemed effective in prolonging disease-free survival in contrast to the same regimen given at 1 day after BMT. Our data suggest that immunotherapy with rIL-2 should be further investigated as a new immunotherapeutic tool for decreasing the relapse rate after BMT for hematologic malignancies. 
A rare cause of nasal obstruction: a solitary neurofibroma. This case represents a peripheral nerve sheath tumor as a cause of nasal obstruction. Nerve sheath tumors are relatively uncommon; however, most otolaryngologists will encounter them. These tumors develop from cranial and spinal nerve roots and from peripheral nerves. In total, approximately 25% to 44% of nerve sheath tumors occur in the head and neck region. Although the most important are cranial nerve tumors--the majority being acoustic neuromas arising from the vestibular nerve--they may also develop in the nasal cavity. 
Cocaine-induced myocardial infarction. A growing threat to men in their 30s. A clear association has been established between cocaine use and acute myocardial infarction. Because of the continuing rise in cocaine use in the United States, many more young patients have or will have this disorder. Such patients are usually managed conservatively with calcium channel blockade and have an excellent in-hospital prognosis. If chest pain recurs or stress testing reveals evidence of ischemia, cardiac catheterization should be done. If cocaine use is discontinued, the long-term prognosis of a typical patient with cocaine-induced acute myocardial infarction is excellent in the absence of other chronic illnesses. 
Ambulatory stab evulsion phlebectomy for truncal varicose veins. The management of primary varicose veins is evolving. Recovery time, cost, recurrence rate, and cosmesis are critical determinants. Classic "high ligation" and ankle-to-groin stripping is expensive, results in a long convalescence, and may produce unacceptable scarring and possible permanent nerve injury. This report describes the technique of stab evulsion phlebectomy performed in an outpatient setting. Under loco-regional anesthesia, and after high ligation, existing tributary and trunk varicosities are evulsed with specially designed hooks. The multiple stab incisions, 1.5- to 3-mm long, are closed with adhesive strips. Fifty-six patients, with 69 involved limbs, have been operated on during the past 9 months. Postoperative pain and complications were minimal. Convalescence was eliminated and all patients immediately resumed normal daily activities. Cosmesis was excellent. This technique is based on hemodynamically accurate principles. It effectively removes all varicosities, eliminates the proximal source of reflux, and disconnects potentially outflowing perforators, yet leaves in situ undamaged trunk veins, which may be used as potential vein grafts. 
Transcriptional regulation of c-jun gene expression by arabinofuranosylcytosine in human myeloid leukemia cells. Previous studies have demonstrated that 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (ara-C) induces terminal differentiation of human myeloid leukemia cells. Other studies have shown that the c-jun protooncogene is expressed during phorbol ester-induced myeloid differentiation. This work examines the effects of ara-C on c-jun gene expression in human KG-1 myeloid leukemia cells. The results demonstrate that c-jun transcripts are undetectable in uninduced KG-1 cells and that ara-C induces expression of this gene in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Ara-C treatment was also associated with increases in c-jun transcripts in U-937, THP-1, and HL-60 myeloid leukemia cells. Furthermore, transcriptional run-on analysis has demonstrated that exposure to ara-C increases the rate of c-jun gene transcription. The results also demonstrate that while inhibition of protein synthesis superinduces c-jun mRNA levels in phorbol ester-treated KG-1 cells, cycloheximide had no effect on the induction of c-jun transcripts during ara-C treatment. Moreover, the half-life of c-jun transcripts in ara-C-treated KG-1 cells was 42 min. These findings suggest that the increase in c-jun mRNA observed during ara-C treatment is regulated by a transcriptional mechanism, and that c-jun may be involved in the induction of differentiation and regulation of gene expression by ara-C. 
Proenkephalin A in bone-derived cells. Enkephalins, a group of small peptides with opiate-like activity, have been defined originally as neuropeptides. Recent reports showed, using in situ hybridization, that the enkephalin-encoding gene, proenkephalin A (pEnkA), is expressed in nondifferentiated cells of diverse mesodermal lineages. The transient expression of pEnkA in these tissues during organogenesis suggests that this gene is involved in processes such as differentiation and/or cell proliferation. In situ hybridization revealed that bone and cartilage are among the tissues that express pEnkA most actively during organogenesis. Here we show that pEnkA mRNA is abundant in normal calvaria-derived cells and in osteosarcoma-derived cell lines ROS 17/2.8 and ROS 25/1. In addition, pEnkA-derived peptides are synthesized and secreted by these cells, as revealed by specific RIA. pEnkA expression in ROS cells is decreased by osteogenin, an osteoinductive factor, and by the calcium-regulating hormone, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, whereas the osteoblastic phenotype marker, alkaline phosphatase, is increased by these factors. These results together with the inhibitory effects of pEnkA-derived peptides on alkaline phosphatase activity in ROS 17/2.8 cells suggest that pEnkA is involved in bone development and provide a model system for further analysis of pEnkA expression during this process. 
Rocker-soled shoes and walking distance in patients with calf claudication. Calf claudication is the major clinical manifestation of peripheral vascular occlusive disease in a significant number of patients. Although claudication causes substantial patient disability, most patients are treated conservatively because of the risks of surgical therapy and the uncertain efficacy of drug therapy. It was hypothesized that rocker-soled shoes would decrease the work of the plantar flexors and therefore increase walking distance in patients with calf claudication. To test this hypothesis, walking distances in patients with calf claudication using rocker-soled shoes and a placebo shoe insert were compared. Rocker-soled shoes significantly increased both the total distance walked and the distance at which patients were initially bothered by symptoms by 77m (37%, p less than .0005) and 89m (91%, p = .003), respectively. It was concluded that rocker-soled shoes may reduce disability in patients with calf claudication by increasing walking distance. 
Sympathetic neural control of vascular muscle in reduced renal mass hypertension. Vascular smooth muscle (VSM) transmembrane potentials (Em) were measured in situ in small branch arteries (150-300-microns o.d.), small branch veins (300-400-microns o.d.), arterioles (90-150-microns o.d.), and venules (80-250-microns o.d.) in the mesenteric and gracilis muscle and the arterioles and venules of cremaster muscle vascular beds in anesthetized rats with reduced renal mass hypertension (HT-RRM) and normotensive sham-operated RRM control rats. All rats were given a 4% NaCl diet for 2 weeks with water ad libitum. Relative to sham, HT-RRM mesenteric and gracilis arterial and venous vessels, but not the microvessels of the cremaster muscle bed, were less polarized during superfusion with normal physiological salt solution. Also relative to sham, hyperpolarization responses to local sympathetic neural (SNS) denervation with 6-hydroxydopamine were greater in mesenteric and gracilis small arteries, arterioles, veins, and venules but not in cremaster microvessels. The immediate (less than 5-minute) electrogenic depolarization response to local blockade of VSM Na(+)-K+ pump activity with 10(-3) M ouabain was similar between each respective HT-RRM and sham vessel pair in each vascular bed. 
Effects of hypothermia and hyperthermia on the reactivity of rat intracerebral arterioles in vitro. The effects of hypothermia and hyperthermia on the cerebral microcirculation were studied using isolated perfused intracerebral (parenchymal) arterioles obtained from rats. In a temperature-dependent manner, hypothermia (20.0 degrees to 35.0 degrees C) dilated the spontaneous tone developed by the arterioles and also diminished their contractile response to potassium and prostaglandin F2 alpha. In contrast, hyperthermia (40.0 degrees to 45.0 degrees C) induced a biphasic response consisting of initial vasoconstriction and secondary vasodilation. Exposure of the vessels to 45.0 degrees C for 30 minutes irreversibly abolished the spontaneous tone and responsiveness of the arterioles when the temperature of the preparation was returned to 37.5 degrees C. In calcium-free solutions, however, the arteriolar diameter was not affected within a temperature range of 20.0 degrees to 45 degrees C. Furthermore, arterioles that had been in a calcium-free solution during exposure to 45 degrees C temperature recovered their viability at 37.5 degrees C. These results suggest that changes in ambient temperature alter calcium-induced contraction in arteriolar smooth muscle, and that the irreversible effects of hyperthermia on the arterioles are dependent upon extracellular calcium. These studies indicate that alterations in brain temperature may affect the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia by mechanisms that are in part independent of parenchymal metabolism. 
Dynamic tracking of cardiac vulnerability by complex demodulation of the T wave. A link is found between T wave alternans and vulnerability to ventricular fibrillation, and a new approach is provided for quantification of susceptibility to malignant arrhythmias. Complex demodulation reveals that alternation of the electrocardiogram is concentrated during the first half of the T wave, coinciding with the vulnerable period of the cardiac cycle. During myocardial ischemia and reperfusion, there are marked increases in the degree of T wave alternans that parallel the established time course of changes in vulnerability. The influence of the sympathetic nervous system in arrhythmogenesis is also accurately detected. Ultimately, complex demodulation of the electrocardiogram could provide a technique for identification and management of individuals at risk for sudden cardiac death. 
Balloon dilation of postsurgical subaortic obstruction. Two children aged 10 and 5.5 years underwent balloon dilation for postsurgical subaortic obstruction. The outcome and the role of this procedure are discussed. 
Post stenotic aneurysm in popliteal artery entrapment syndrome. In a retrospective review of 74 cases of Popliteal Entrapment Syndrome collected over a 16 year period, 10 cases of aneurysm were found (13.5%). This represents an incidence of 26% of the 38 cases of popliteal aneurysm of any etiology seen during the same period of time. In contrast to atherosclerotic aneurysms, these aneurysms were seen in a young age group (21-30 years of age) and all were associated with popliteal entrapment. Evidence is presented to support our opinion that these aneurysms are post-stenotic in origin. We feel that young adults with symptoms of leg ischaemia and evidence of an aneurysm of the popliteal artery should be investigated for popliteal entrapment and treated before complications occur. We have found a posterior approach to be the most satisfactory method of exploring the popliteal fossa. 
A prospective study of liver function in infants and children exposed to daily isoflurane for several weeks. Eleven infants and children presenting for daily radiotherapy for a period of at least 2 weeks were anaesthetised with isoflurane in 33% oxygen and nitrous oxide. They were unpremedicated and given no other agents to supplement anaesthesia. The average number of exposures was 24 (SD 11; range 10-39) and the total anaesthetic time per exposure varied between 15 and 30 minutes. Liver function was assessed by determining serum total bilirubin, aspartate amino transferase, gamma glutamyl transferase and alkaline phosphatase before the start of treatment and at 5-daily intervals thereafter. There was no measurable change in any of these determinants of liver function. All children accepted daily induction of anaesthesia with isoflurane. Induction, maintenance and recovery from anaesthesia were uncomplicated. 
FK 506 ameliorates the hepatic injury associated with ischemia and reperfusion in rats. The effect of FK 506 on regeneration of the liver was studied in rats after a two-thirds partial hepatectomy after 60 min of ischemia of the unresected liver. The animals were divided into three distinct groups of 10 rats each. Group 1 (controls) received 0.5 ml saline solution intravenously 30 min after the induction of ischemia. Groups 2 and 3 were injected with FK 506 (0.3 mg/kg) intravenously 30 min after and 24 min before the induction of hepatic ischemia, respectively. The hepatic content of ATP and serum levels of ALT and lactate dehydrogenase were determined on each animal. In addition, the histological appearance and mitotic activity of the remnant liver was determined at regular 24-hr intervals after hepatic ischemia. All 10 control animals died within 72 hr. Treatment with FK 506 resulted in improved survival in groups 2 and 3 (30% and 80%, respectively). The improved survival seen in the FK 506-treated animals was reflected by a restoration of hepatic ATP content, a reduction in the serum levels of ALT and lactate dehydrogenase, an amelioration of hepatic necrosis and neutrophilic infiltration and an increase in the mitotic activity of the liver. These results suggest that FK 506 ameliorates the hepatic injury associated with ischemia/reperfusion and has a potent stimulatory effect on liver cell regeneration that may make it valuable as a hepatoprotective agent when administered to organ donors before graft harvesting. 
Synthesis of C1 inhibitor in fibroblasts from patients with type I and type II hereditary angioneurotic edema. Patients with hereditary angioneurotic edema (HANE) have serum levels of functionally active inhibitor of the first component of complement (C1 INH) between 5 and 30% of normal, instead of the 50% expected from the single normal allele. Increases in rates of catabolism have been documented in patients with HANE and certainly account for some of decrease in C1 INH level. A possible role for a decrease in synthesis of C1 INH in producing serum levels of C1 INH below the expected 50% of normal has not been well studied. We studied the synthesis of C1 INH in skin fibroblast lines, which produce easily detectable amounts of C1 INH. In type I HANE cells, C1 INH synthesis was 19.6 +/- 4.0% (mean +/- SD) of normal, much less than the 50% predicted. In type II HANE cells, the total amount of C1 INH synthesis (functional and dysfunctional) was 98.9 +/- 17% of normal; the functional protein comprised 43% of the total. Thus, type II HANE cells synthesized functional C1 INH at a much greater rate than for the type I cells. In both type I and II HANE cells, amounts of steady-state C1 INH mRNA levels paralleled rates of C1 INH synthesis, indicating that control of C1 INH synthesis occurred at pretranslational levels. Both type I and type II fibroblasts synthesized normal amounts of C1r and C1s. These data suggest that the lower than expected amounts of functionally active C1 INH in type I HANE may be due, in part, to a decrease in rate of synthesis of the protein, and that the expressions of the normal C1 INH allele in HANE is influenced by the type of abnormal allele present. 
Orbital exenteration with eyelid sparing: indications, technique, and results. Of 22 orbital exenterations performed from January 1980 to December 1989, 16 were performed by an eyelid-sparing technique, and six were allowed to heal by spontaneous granulation. Reviewing these procedures, we conclude that the eyelid-sparing method is indicated mainly for advanced primary orbital malignancies and for certain secondary orbital malignancies such as orbital extension of uveal melanoma, conjunctival melanoma, and conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma. It is not usually applicable to orbital invasion of malignant eyelid tumors such as basal cell carcinoma and sebaceous gland carcinoma. Advantages of the eyelid-sparing method are more rapid healing and earlier fitting of a prosthesis. 
Carotid cavernous fistula after minimal facial trauma. Report of a case. The carotid cavernous fistula has historically been associated with extensive facial trauma as a result of direct or indirect forces. Most fistulas of traumatic origin develop as a result of a fracture through the base of the skull, which produces a force causing laceration of the internal carotid artery in the region where it approximates the cavernous sinus. We report a case in which apparently minimal head trauma resulted in the development of a carotid cavernous fistula. The rather innocuous presentation of this complication requires particular attention by the caregiver in assessing the patient sustaining maxillofacial trauma. 
Outcome of patients with acute myocardial infarction who are ineligible for thrombolytic therapy. OBJECTIVE: To determine what proportion of patients with acute myocardial infarction are not eligible for thrombolytic therapy and to assess their natural history. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review. SETTING: A large community-based hospital. PATIENTS: All patients with acute myocardial infarction hospitalized during a 27-month period. MEASUREMENTS: Of 1471 patients with acute myocardial infarction, 230 (16%) received thrombolytic therapy according to the protocol and an additional 97 (7%) received nonprotocol thrombolytic therapy, primary coronary balloon angioplasty, or both because of contraindications. The other 1144 patients (78%) did not receive reperfusion therapy. MAIN RESULTS: The patients who did not receive thrombolytic therapy were older, more likely to be women, and more likely to have a history of hypertension, previous myocardial infarction, or chronic angina (all comparisons, P less than 0.002). An average of 1.9 reasons for exclusion were identified per patient among the ineligible patients. Mortality was fivefold higher among ineligible patients (19%; Cl, 16% to 21%) than among protocol-treated patients (4%; Cl, 1% to 6%) (P less than 0.001). In-hospital mortality rates for excluded patients were 28% (Cl, 23% to 32%) in elderly patients (age, greater than 76 years; n = 396); 29% (Cl, 23% to 35%) in patients with stroke or bleeding risk (n = 209); 17% (Cl, 14% to 20%) in patients with delayed presentation (greater than 4 hours after the onset of chest pain; [n = 599]); 14% (Cl, 11% to 16%) in patients with an ineligible electrocardiogram (ECG) (n = 673); and 26% (Cl, 21% to 32%) in patients with a miscellaneous reason for exclusion (n = 243). Independent predictors of increased mortality were: age greater than 76 years, stroke or other bleeding risk, ineligible ECG, or the presence of two or more exclusion criteria. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombolytic therapy is currently used in the United States for only a minority of patients with acute myocardial infarction: those who have low-risk prognostic characteristics. 
Patellofemoral pain caused by overactivity. A prospective study of risk factors in infantry recruits. A prospective study of 390 infantry recruits revealed that the medial tibial intercondylar distance and that the isometric strength of the quadriceps, tested at 85 degrees of flexion of the knee, had a statistically significant correlation with the incidence of patellofemoral pain caused by overactivity. Increased medial tibial intercondylar distance and increased strength of the quadriceps were therefore deemed to be risk factors for this syndrome. 
Effect of intrathoracic pressure on plasma arginine vasopressin levels. Abdominal distention during pneumoperitoneum results in a marked increase in plasma arginine vasopressin levels, which has been ascribed to an increase in intrathoracic pressure. Because of this relationship, tense ascites could contribute to nonosmotic release of antidiuretic hormone, to the development of hyponatremia, and eventually to further ascites formation. The effect of pneumoperitoneum, thoracocentesis, and paracentesis on plasma arginine vasopressin levels was studied in three groups of patients, and the mechanism by which these maneuvers may induce these changes was investigated. Patients with pleural effusion, pneumothorax, or ascites showed a significant increase in plasma arginine vasopressin levels, and thoracocentesis or paracentesis resulted in a decrease in these levels. Plasma vasopressin levels increased significantly during pneumoperitoneum, as did intrathoracic and atrial pressures; the atrial transmural pressure gradient declined. However, no changes in plasma levels of norepinephrine, aldosterone, and renin activity were observed during pneumoperitoneum. Changes in plasma arginine vasopressin levels correlated with the changes in intrathoracic and atrial pressures and transmural pressure gradient. The authors conclude that increased intrathoracic pressure is associated with an increase in plasma arginine vasopressin levels and propose that ascites could be a factor promoting vasopressin release by acting on intrathoracic volume receptors in decompensated cirrhotics. 
Toxic effects of cisplatin alone and in combination with gentamicin in stria vascularis of guinea pigs. The toxic effects on the stria vascularis of treatment with cisplatin alone and combined with the aminoglycoside antibiotic, gentamicin, were studied in guinea pigs. The toxicity induced in albino and pigmented guinea pigs was investigated morphologically with light and transmission electron microscopy, and functionally by brainstem-evoked response audiometry. The results of hearing thresholds were variable, ranging from no change in one ear in some of the animals to a hearing loss of 20 dB in one or both ears when treated with low-dose cisplatin alone or in combination with gentamicin. Bilateral deafness resulted from high-dose cisplatin combined with gentamicin. The combined treatment produced prominent structural damage in the stria vascularis. The results should be considered when aminoglycoside therapy is required in conjunction with cisplatin. 
Malignant melanoma arising in a dermoid cyst of the ovary. Autopsy findings of primary malignant melanoma arising in an ovarian dermoid cyst in an 86-year-old woman are presented. The right ovary was replaced by a dermoid cyst, 14 x 9 x 9 cm in size, in which several nodular tumors with diameters less than 3.2 cm were localized. They comprised diffusely proliferating anaplastic cells with prominent nucleoli. Some of them contained melanin pigments in the cytoplasm. The tumor cells were positive for S-100 protein and ultrastructurally showed melanosomes. In addition, several benign pigmented lesions resembling dermal nevus, pigmented schwannoma, or cellular blue nevus were present in the dermoid cyst, one of which contained a malignant melanomatous component. Histologic transition between benign and malignant components and the presence of another small focus of atypical melanocytes in the benign lesion suggested that the malignant melanoma arose in close association with the previously existing benign pigmented lesions in the dermoid cyst. 
Elective coronary artery bypass surgery without homologous blood transfusion. Early results with an inexpensive blood conservation program. Restriction of donor blood transfusions in cardiac surgery should reduce risks of infective contamination and antigenicity. We report a systemic, simple and inexpensive blood conservation program used for 121 consecutive patients who underwent elective coronary artery bypass surgery without need for homologous blood transfusion. The left internal mammary artery was grafted in all cases, in addition to saphenous vein grafts. Autologous, heparinized blood was removed intraoperatively, pre-bypass, and returned to the patient at conclusion of the extracorporeal circulation. The volume remaining in the oxygenator and the tubing set was returned without cell processing or hemofiltration. Using the hard-shell cardiotomy reservoir from the heart-lung machine, autotransfusion of the shed mediastinal blood was continued hourly up to 18 hours after surgery. The mean postoperative mediastinal bleeding was 551 +/- 206 ml, of which 505 +/- 218 ml was autotransfused. No re-exploration for bleeding was required and no homologous red-cell transfusions were given. Five patients each received 1-2 units of fresh frozen plasma because of prolonged bleeding time. Morbidity was low and mortality nil. At discharge the mean hemoglobin was 12.0 +/- 1.4 g/dl and the hematocrit 36.0 +/- 4.2%. 
Insect paralysis by baculovirus-mediated expression of a mite neurotoxin gene. Female mites of the species Pyemotes tritici inject an extremely potent venom into their insect prey that causes muscle-contraction and paralysis. These mites are able to paralyse insects 150,000 times their size and their venom is effective in a broad range of insect species. A toxin (TxP-I) associated with the mite venom apparatus causes immediate muscle-contractive paralysis when injected into insects but not mice. In this report, we describe the cloning, sequencing and expression of a complementary DNA (Tox-34) encoding TxP-I. Insect cells infected with a recombinant baculovirus (vEV-Tox34) expressing Tox-34 secrete three polypeptides related to TxP-I which cause paralysis on injection. Larvae infected with vEV-Tox34 become paralysed during infection, thus reflecting the potential application of this toxin gene in insect biocontrol methods. The toxin gene expression system will also allow further exploration of the neurophysiological basis of its insect-specific effects. 
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome. Clinical course, therapy, and long-term visual outcome. We reviewed data from 26 patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome who presented at the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute between March 1969 and February 1990. Visual outcomes were good, with final visual acuity of better than 20/30 in 29 (66%) of 44 eyes and of worse than 20/400 in only three (7%) of 44 eyes. A poor prognosis was associated with the development of choroidal neovascular membranes or chronic uveitis. All patients were treated with systemic corticosteroids. Corticosteroid therapy averaged 6 months, but was prolonged (48 months) in patients who developed chronic uveitis. Disease recurred in nine (43%) of 21 patients in the first 3 months, usually in association with a rapid tapering of steroid dosage. We recommend the early, aggressive use of systemic corticosteroids in patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome and a gradual tapering of drug dosage for 6 months after presentation. 
Splenosis presenting as a left renal mass indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. Splenosis following splenic trauma is a common but underdiagnosed entity before surgical exploration. In all previously reported cases the ectopic splenic tissue was distinctly separate from the kidney. To our knowledge we report the first known case in which the splenic tissue was located in direct apposition with the kidney. Using conventional imaging techniques, including renal ultrasonography, abdominal computerized tomography and selective renal arteriography, this ectopic splenic tissue appeared to be part of the left kidney and was indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. The pathophysiology, clinical presentation and diagnostic studies of splenosis are reviewed. 
Metabolic consequences of (regional) total pancreatectomy. Little information has been reported on the metabolic characteristics of the totally pancreatectomized patient or the efficacy of medical management after radical pancreatic surgery. The prospective evaluation of 49 such patients, with 31% followed for 48 or more months, forms the basis of this report. The major immediate postoperative challenge is control of diarrhea and weight stabilization. Chronically patients have an increased daily caloric requirement (mean +/- SE, 56 +/- 1 kcal/kg), not wholly explained by moderate steatorrhea (fecal fat excretion, 16% +/- 2% of unrestricted fat intake). Despite persistent malabsorption, deficiencies in fat-soluble vitamin, magnesium, and trace element serum levels can be prevented in most patients. Pancreatogenic diabetes is characterized by (1) absence of the major glucoregulatory hormones insulin and glucagon, (2) instability, and (3) frequent hypoglycemia, with the latter parameters improving with rigorous home glucose monitoring. No patient has developed clinically overt diabetic micro- or macrovascular disease. Performance status in long-term survivors has been reasonable. However adverse chronic sequelae of the operation occur and include an unusual frequency of liver disease, characterized by accelerated fatty infiltration, and osteopenia, with an 18% reduction in radial bone mineral content noted in pancreatectomized patients studied more than 5 years after surgery. 
Correlation of nuclear morphometry and DNA ploidy in rectal cancer. Several investigators have used morphometric measurements to determine differences in the nuclear size and shape of normal and neoplastic colorectal tissue. Changes in nuclear morphometric parameters have also been shown to correlate with prognosis in a variety of noncolorectal cancers. The association of nuclear morphometry with prognostic indicators in rectal cancer has not been well studied. Measurements of the nuclear area, perimeter, longest cord, and circularity factor from 39 primary rectal adenocarcinomas were compared with DNA content, degree of tumor differentiation, Dukes' class, and patient survival. Nuclear circularity was found to correlate with DNA ploidy. Nondiploid tumors with a DNA index greater than 1.3 had significantly more circular nuclei than tumors with diploid or near-diploid DNA content. There was no correlation between nuclear morphometry and Dukes' class or patient survival. Significant increases in DNA content of rectal cancers appear to be reflected by measurable changes in nuclear shape. Nuclear morphometric measurements may provide useful information in the study of the progression of neoplastic changes in colorectal cancer. 
Chondrosarcoma of the parapharyngeal space. Chondrosarcoma is rarely found arising in the head and neck region. An unusual case arising in the parapharyngeal space in a male is reported and the differential diagnosis, pathology and treatment are discussed. 
Coronary angioplasty in single-vessel complex lesions: short- and long-term outcome and factors predicting acute coronary occlusion. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of complex coronary lesions (plaque ulceration and/or thrombus) has an increased risk of procedural complications. To assess the influence of these angiographic features on immediate and long-term results of PTCA, we prospectively compared the success rate, incidence of procedural complications, and restenosis rate in two groups of patients selected on the basis of the presence (study group = 30 patients) or absence (control group = 200 patients) of complex morphology at the time of angioplasty. The two groups were similar with regard to extent of coronary artery disease and site of coronary stenosis. Patients in the study group had a higher incidence of periprocedural acute coronary occlusion (47% vs 6%; p less than 0.01), which in 78% of the cases was successfully treated with repeat angioplasty and intracoronary thrombolysis. Univariate correlates of this complication were Canadian Cardiovascular Society class IV (57% vs 19%; p less than 0.05) and recent (less than 30 days) onset of worsening of symptoms (71% vs 31%; p less than 0.05). The incidence of acute myocardial infarction was slightly higher in the study group (6.7% vs 2%; p = NS), and the success rate with redilatation was the same (90%). Clinical and angiographic follow-up data were obtained from all patients in whom the procedure was successful; the restenosis rate was 55% in the study group compared with 36% in the control group (p less than 0.05). 
Intravascular ultrasound imaging of human coronary arteries after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: morphologic and quantitative assessment. An intravascular ultrasound catheter system was used in patients to assess the effect of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. In 14 out of 16 patients, the intravascular ultrasound catheter could be successfully advanced to the site of a previous dilatation. Qualitative assessment of the cross-sectional images revealed intimal thickening and an increase of ultrasound reflectance and calcification at atherosclerotic coronary arteries. A disruption of the obstructing plaque and evidence for local dissections (11 of 14 cases) were observed after angioplasty. The quantitative comparison between angiography and the ultrasound measurement showed a close correlation for vessel sites distant to the dilatation (r = 0.91 for vessel diameter; r = 0.86 for luminal area; p less than 0.001). After angioplasty, the quantitative evaluation of the dilated area was possible in 11 cases. The correlation of angiographic and sonographic measurements of these segments was good for the assessment of the vessel diameter (r = 0.82, p less than 0.001), but poor for the determination of the luminal area (r = 0.48, p = 0.10). This difference reflected the complex morphology of the vessel lumen after angioplasty, which would be better assessed by the cross-sectional sonographic technique than by contrast angiography. The intravascular imaging of coronary arteries provides a new and unique method to obtain information on the plaque morphology and composition, and to assess the local effects of interventional procedures and their complications. 
Smoking and mortality among older men and women in three communities. BACKGROUND. Although cigarette smoking is the leading avoidable cause of premature death in middle age, some have claimed that no association is present among older persons. METHODS. We prospectively examined the relation of cigarette-smoking habits with mortality from all causes, cardiovascular causes, and cancer among 7178 persons 65 years of age or older without a history of myocardial infarction, stroke, or cancer who lived in one of three communities: East Boston, Massachusetts; Iowa and Washington counties, Iowa; and New Haven, Connecticut. At the time of the initial interview, prevalence rates of smoking in the three communities ranged from 5.2 to 17.8 percent among women and from 14.2 to 25.8 percent among men. During five years of follow-up there were 1442 deaths, 729 due to cardiovascular disease and 316 due to cancer. RESULTS. In both sexes, rates of total mortality among current smokers were twice what they were among participants who had never smoked. Relative risks, as adjusted for age and community, were 2.1 among the men (95 percent confidence interval, 1.7 to 2.7) and 1.8 among the women (95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.4). Current smokers had higher rates of cardiovascular mortality than those who had never smoked (as adjusted for age and community, the relative risk was 2.0 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.9] among the men and 1.6 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 2.3] among the women), as well as increased rates of cancer mortality (relative risk, 2.4 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 4.1] among the men and 2.4 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 3.9] among the women). In both sexes, former smokers had rates of cardiovascular mortality similar to those of the participants who had never smoked, regardless of age at cessation, whereas the rates for all cancers, as well as smoking-related cancers, remained elevated among men who had once smoked. CONCLUSIONS. Our prospective findings indicate that the mortality hazards of smoking extend well into later life, and suggest that cessation will continue to improve life expectancy in older people. 
Tissue polypeptide antigen activity in cerebrospinal fluid: a marker of central nervous system metastases of breast cancer. Tissue polypeptide antigen (TPpA) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was measured in 59 consecutive breast cancer patients with suspected central nervous system (CNS) metastases. Subsequently, we determined that 13 patients had parenchymal brain metastases, 10 had leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, and 36 had no CNS involvement. The concentration of TPpA, which is a nonspecific marker for cell proliferation, was significantly higher in patients with CNS metastases than in those without it (P less than .0001; Mann-Whitney test). A tentative cutoff value for CNS metastases was set at 95 U/L TPpA; the upper limit of values indicating absence of CNS metastases was 89 U/L. Given these cutoff points, the sensitivity of TPpA as a marker for CNS metastases was 74% and the specificity was 100%; the predictive values of positive and negative tests were 100% and 86%, respectively. In 16 patients with CNS metastases, no correlation was found between TPpA activity in corresponding CSF and blood samples (correlation coefficient, Spearman's rho = .4; P greater than .1). In three patients treated for leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, the measurements of CSF TPpA showed correlation between the presence of tumor cells in the CSF and neurological clinical function. TPpA concentrations decreased in parallel with the clinical response and increased prior to CNS disease progression. As a marker for CNS metastases, the level of TPpA in the CSF in breast cancer patients appears to be superior to the level of protein, lactate dehydrogenase, or glucose, which showed very low sensitivity (41%, 47%, and 8%, respectively). For quantitative evaluation of treatment for leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, the TPpA level appears to be valuable and superior to CSF cytology, because tumor cells are not always present in CSF samples from patients with this condition. 
Human papillomavirus type-related DNA and c-myc oncogene alterations in colon cancer cell lines. Although squamous-cell epithelium is the most frequent target site of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, a similar infection is demonstrated in columnar epithelial cells in this paper. The papillomavirus expression in three cell lines was detected in colorectal adenocarcinoma of Chinese patients. The HPV-16 and HPV-18 DNA sequences were found in colorectal cancer cell lines, which might suggest the correlation of HPV to the etiology of colorectal cancers. In addition, c-myc oncogene was identified by amplification in all three colorectal cancer cell lines, but only normal germ-line fragments were found in control tissue. The correlation between HPV and c-myc, and the implications of these findings in colorectal cancers are also discussed. 
Parathyroiditis associated with hyperparathyroidism and branchial cysts. A 57-year-old man had renal stones, and biochemical investigation led to a diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism. Surgical exploration revealed bilateral inferior parathyroid enlargement. Both glands were removed; macroscopically, small cysts were seen on cut sections. Histologic examination showed broad bands of fibrosis, lymphoid follicles, and plasma cells that diffusely effaced the parathyroid architecture. Such features--if seen in the thyroid gland--would be reminiscent of an autoimmune process. The cysts were lined by respiratory and squamous epithelia and contained lymphoid follicles in their walls. Less affected areas of the parathyroid tissue were hyperplastic. It is believed that the inflammatory response in the parathyroid glands that is described in this article may be characteristic. It may result from the cysts or their contents or from an autoimmune reaction. 
Intraoperative ultrasonography: an important surgical adjunct for intramedullary tumors. The echographic characteristics of 186 suspected intramedullary spinal cord tumors were reviewed. Ultrasonography was found to be specific in distinguishing the tumor type, the extent of the lesion, and the presence and type of associated cysts. Ultrasonography greatly facilitates the selection of respective sites for the placement of a myelotomy, and for initiation of the resection. Additionally, this indispensable adjunct provides ongoing images that allow the preoperative plan to be precisely followed in a surgical field where anatomical landmarks are limited and the margin for error is minimal. 
Molecular basis of the enhanced susceptibility of the erythrocytes of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria to hemolysis in acidified serum. When incubated in acidified serum, the erythrocytes of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) are hemolyzed through activation of the alternative pathway of complement (APC), but normal erythrocytes are resistant to this process. PNH cells are deficient in decay-accelerating factor (DAF), a complement regulatory protein that inhibits the activity of both the classical and the alternative pathways. However, deficiency of DAF alone does not account entirely for the aberrant effects of acidified serum on PNH cells. Recently, we have shown that PNH erythrocytes are also deficient in another complement control protein called membrane inhibitor of reactive lysis (MIRL) that restricts complement-mediated lysis by blocking formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC). To determine the effects of the DAF and MIRL on susceptibility to acidified serum lysis, PNH cells were repleted with the purified proteins. DAF partially inhibited acidified serum lysis by blocking the activity of the amplification C3 convertase. MIRL inhibited acidified serum lysis both by blocking the activity of the MAC and by inhibiting the activity the C3 convertase. When DAF function was blocked with antibody, normal erythrocytes became partially susceptible to acidified serum lysis. By blocking MIRL, cells were made completely susceptible to lysis, and control of C3 convertase activity was partially lost. When both DAF and MIRL were blocked, the capacity of normal erythrocytes to control the activity of the APC and the MAC was destroyed, and the cells hemolyzed even in unacidified serum. These studies demonstrate that DAF and MIRL act in concert to control susceptibility to acidified serum lysis; of the two proteins, MIRL is the more important. In addition to its regulatory effects on the MAC, MIRL also influences the activity of the C3 convertase of the APC. Further, in the absence of DAF and MIRL, the plasma regulators (factor H and factor I) lack the capacity to control membrane-associated activation of the APC. 
Prevention of heterotopic ossification in high-risk patients by radiation therapy. Heterotopic ossification (HO) is a frequent occurrence after cemented and cementless total hip arthroplasty (THA). Patients at risk for this complication include those with preexisting ipsilateral or contralateral HO, diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis, hypertrophic osteoarthrosis, posttraumatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Low-dose radiation therapy effectively prevents HO in this high-risk group when treatment is begun early in the postoperative period. A prospective evaluation has established the efficacy of fractionated and single-dose radiation therapy protocols. Limited radiation portals are used in patients receiving cementless prostheses. A rectangular radiation portal obliquely oriented to the prosthesis enables radiation treatment of the periarticular soft tissues while avoiding exposure of the bone-prosthesis interface. Radiation therapy to this interface may inhibit or delay bony ingrowth. Radiation therapy is the only treatment used to prevent HO that is delivered locally and not systemically. Low-dose radiation therapy using a limited radiation portal is the treatment of choice to prevent HO in high-risk patients after cementless THA. 
Long-term inhibition of tumor growth by tumor necrosis factor in the absence of cachexia or T-cell immunity. The relationship between detrimental (cachectic) and beneficial (antitumor) effects of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) was studied in mice bearing murine tumors transfected to secrete human TNF. In vitro, the TNF-producing transfectants were resistant to the secreted TNF and grew at rates similar to those of untransfected cells or transfected cells that did not secrete TNF. However, tumors formed by the TNF-secreting cells in vivo remained much smaller than the nonsecreting (transfected and untransfected) tumors. This inhibition of tumor growth required only relatively low serum levels of TNF, persisted for many weeks, and was independent of T cells since it occurred in nude mice. Growth of the TNF-secreting tumors increased dramatically after treatment with anti-human TNF antibody, indicating that extracellular TNF secreted by the tumor cells was necessary for the tumor inhibition. Severe weight loss characteristic of cachexia only occurred in animals with very high serum TNF levels (250 pg/ml) and could be prevented or reversed by anti-TNF antibody treatment. These data are consistent with the existence of a therapeutic window in which persistent exposure to human TNF can lead to prolonged inhibition of tumor growth in the absence of T-cell immunity or severe weight loss and without development of resistant tumor variants. 
Demonstration of osteonectin mRNA in megakaryocytes: the use of the polymerase chain reaction. Platelets have been shown to release osteonectin on thrombin stimulation. The origin of platelet osteonectin was unclear as it may have been synthesized by megakaryocytes or it may have been endocytosed from plasma as other platelet alpha-granule constituents are. Platelet osteonectin has a larger apparent molecular size than the bone species, although the molecular basis for this difference has not been elucidated. These two issues have been addressed here by (1) examining the potential for osteonectin biosynthesis in human megakaryocytes by demonstrating the presence of osteonectin mRNA in purified megakaryocytes, and (2) comparing the coding portion of osteonectin transcript in megakaryocytes to the size of its bone counterpart. Because of the limitations of cell population purity and in obtaining sufficient numbers of megakaryocyte cells for Northern analysis, we have used the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect the presence of human osteonectin mRNA in megakaryocyte and megakaryocyte-depleted bone marrow cells. Isolation of RNA, cDNA synthesis, and PCR were performed on human osteosarcoma SaOS-2 cells, enriched megakaryocytes, and megakaryocyte-depleted cells. Restriction enzyme analysis of PCR DNA products confirmed the identity of the products as those encoding osteonectin for all three cell populations studied. In addition, the sizes of DNA indicate that osteonectin genomic DNA, nuclear RNA, or altered transcript were not amplified, and that the transcript from megakaryocytes is the same size as that from bone cells. These data suggest that the difference in protein size between platelet and bone osteonectin is due to posttranslational modification. To overcome the possibility that megakaryocyte signal originated from contaminating cells (less than 5% by cell count), all three cell populations were diluted to less than one cell per tube and PCR amplification was performed. Limiting dilution analyses demonstrated the presence of osteonectin mRNA in single megakaryocytes as well as in single cells from the cell population depleted of megakaryocytes, suggesting the capacity for osteonectin biosynthesis in all cells studied. The procedure we describe in this report can be used to examine specific characteristics of mRNA molecules in heterogeneous cell populations and in situations where only small quantities of cells can be obtained. 
The double-balloon and Inoue techniques in percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty: comparative results in a series of 232 cases. Immediate hemodynamic results of percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty were compared in two consecutive series of unselected patients from the same institution undergoing valvuloplasty with the double-balloon (161 patients) or the Inoue balloon (71 patients) technique. Before valvuloplasty, the patient series were comparable with regard to average age, gender repartition and most clinical, electrocardiographic, X-ray and hemodynamic variables. Poor anatomic forms of mitral stenosis were equally distributed in both series (41% vs. 45%, p = NS). The magnitude of mitral valve area increase and of mean mitral gradient decrease during percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty did not differ significantly in the Inoue balloon and double-balloon series (mean +/- SEM 1.1 +/- 0.2 to 1.95 +/- 0.5 and 1.0 +/- 0.2 to 1.97 +/- 0.5 cm2, respectively, for mitral valve area and 12 +/- 3 to 5 +/- 2 and 13 +/- 4 to 5 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively, for mean mitral gradient). Four cases of 3+ mitral regurgitation occurred in the Inoue balloon series and 7 in the double-balloon series (p = NS). A good immediate result--defined as mitral valve area greater than or equal to 1.5 cm2 with greater than or equal to 25% in mitral valve area gain and mitral regurgitation less than 2+ at the end of the procedure--was observed in 78% of patients in both series. Three cases of tamponade due to chamber perforation and 14 cases of transient air embolism in the right coronary system due to balloon rupture were observed in the double-balloon series. 
Mutational analysis of an archaebacterial promoter: essential role of a TATA box for transcription efficiency and start-site selection in vitro. By using a recently developed in vitro transcription assay, the 16S/23S rRNA-encoding DNA promoter from the archaebacterium Sulfolobus sp. B12 was dissected by deletion and linker substitution mutagenesis. The analysis of 5' and 3' deletion mutants defined a core promoter region between positions -38 and -2 containing all information for efficient and specific transcription. Further characterization of this region by linker substitution mutagenesis indicated two sequence elements important for promoter function--one located between positions -38 and -25 (distal promoter element) and the other one located between positions -11 and -2 (proximal promoter element). The distal promoter element encompassed the TATA-like "box A" element located approximately 26 nucleotides upstream of the majority of transcription start sites in archaebacteria (Archaeobacteria). All mutations within this box A motif virtually abolished promoter function. Complete inactivation of the proximal promoter element was dependent on extensive mutagenesis; this element is not conserved between archaebacterial promoters except for a high A + T content in stable RNA gene promoters from Sulfolobus. Mutants containing insertions or deletions between the distal and proximal promoter elements were only slightly affected in their transcription efficiency but displayed a shift in their major initiation site, retaining an essentially fixed distance between the distal promoter element and the transcription start site. Thus, efficient transcription and start-site selection were dependent on a conserved TATA-like sequence centered approximately 26 nucleotides upstream of the initiation site, a situation unlike that of eubacterial promoters but resembling the core structure of most eukaryotic RNA polymerase II (and some RNA polymerase III) promoters. This finding suggests a common evolutionary origin of these promoters consistent with the known similarities between archaebacterial and eukaryotic RNA polymerases. 
Decreased CD45RA T cells in B-cell chronic lymphatic leukemia patients: correlation with disease stage. T-cell subsets CD4, CD8 and suppressor-inducers (CD45RA) were determined in 20 patients with B-cell chronic lymphatic leukemia (B-CLL). The proportion of CD4 and CD45RA was decreased when compared with T cells from normal subjects. CD8 was markedly increased. The activity of concanavalin A-induced suppressor cells was not significantly different from that of normal controls and was negatively correlated to the percentage of CD4 of B-CLL patients. The selective loss of CD45RA cells was more prominent in patients in advanced Rai stages of the disease (III to IV) than in early stages (0 to II). Six patients of the advanced stages group suffered from autoimmune hemolytic anemia, whereas no patient in the early stages of disease showed an autoimmune phenomenon. Our results may indicate a mechanism of autoimmunity in B-CLL similar to that of patients with autoimmune diseases. 
Role of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography after orthotopic liver transplantation. Twelve of 178 (7%) liver transplant patients underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) after transplantation. The indications for ERCP were persistent or late onset cholestasis, recurrent cholangitis, and suspected biliary leaks or strictures. The time between transplantation and ERCP ranged from 44 to 330 days (median 153 days). Biliary complications diagnosed by ERCP included biliary sludge in the form of casts, calculi, or debris (n = 7); bile leaks (n = 2); a biliary stricture (n = 1), and complete biliary obstruction (n = 1). One patient had a normal cholangiogram after transplantation. Biliary sludge was detected by ultrasound before ERCP in only one of six patients. Eight patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy, followed by clearance of biliary sludge in four and dilatation of a biliary stricture in one. Two patients bled after papillotomy but neither required surgical intervention. At a median follow up of 1.2 years (range 0.5-2.8 years), nine patients are well and three have died. ERCP provides both accurate diagnosis of biliary complications after liver transplantation and treatment that obviates the need for additional surgery in selected patients. 
The JH/LVOH method in the quantification of aortic regurgitation: how the cardiac sonographer may avoid an important potential pitfall. Color flow Doppler allows for methods in which to quantitate the severity of valvular regurgitation. In particular, the regurgitant jet height/left ventricular outflow tract height (JH/LVOH) method of quantitating the severity of aortic regurgitation has been validated and is routinely used in the adult echocardiography laboratory. A potential pitfall exists in the measurement of the LVOH. This article points out this potential source of error and, in addition, proposes steps that may be taken by the cardiac sonographer to avoid this potential measurement pitfall. 
The double-stapled ileal reservoir and ileoanal anastomosis. A prospective review of sphincter function and clinical outcome. Fifteen consecutive patients (nine males and six females) who underwent construction of a double-stapled ileoanal reservoir (DS-IAR) were prospectively evaluated. Mean and maximal resting pressures preoperatively, before ileostomy closure, and at 12 months, were 53 and 84 mm Hg, 39 and 62 mm Hg, and 62 and 81 mm Hg. Mean and maximal squeeze pressures at those same time periods were 96 and 153 mm Hg, 111 and 173 mm Hg, and 95 and 168 mm Hg. There were no significant decreases in either resting or squeeze pressure between preoperative values and those obtained 12 months after surgery. However, the length of the high pressure zone decreased from 3.8 cm preoperatively to 2.3 cm at 12 months. This reflects the sacrifice of the cephalad 1.5 cm of the internal anal sphincter necessary to effect this anastomosis at a mean of 1.4 cm from the dentate line. However, this maneuver did not result in poor continence. Eleven patients whose ileostomies were closed for a mean of 9 months, ranging from 3 to 15 months, were evaluated regarding functional outcome. Only one patient had any incontinence and this patient had incomplete circular-stapled tissue rings, which necessitated transanal suture repair of the anastomotic defect. Similarly, three of the four patients who sometimes or rarely use a pad at night had transanal-suture reinforcement. Ten of the 11 patients never wear a pad during the day. No pelvic or perianal sepsis occurred. Stratified squamous epithelium was found in 6 of the 13 distal stapler "donuts" that were examined. In addition, 10 patients underwent biopsy of the tissue immediately caudad to the circular staple line at the time of ileostomy closure; in five, only stratified squamous epithelium was noted. The DS-IAR is associated with excellent objective physiologic and subjective functional results. 
Adverse effect of therapeutic vasoconstrictors in experimental acute pancreatitis. Alpha-adrenergic drugs commonly are used to treat hypotension resulting from severe acute pancreatitis. It was shown previously that although systemic arterial pressure is increased by phenylephrine, pancreatic microcirculatory perfusion is decreased. Because inadequate tissue perfusion may be critical in the progression of edematous pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis, it was hypothesized that vasoconstrictors might be harmful in pancreatitis. Therefore the effect of phenylephrine on cerulein-induced mild pancreatitis were studied. Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 54) were randomly allocated to 6 experimental groups and subjected to the following infusion regimens: (1) cerulein (cae) + phenylephrine (phe), (2) cae + saline (NS), (3) NS + phe, (4) cae + phenoxybenzamine (pbz) + phe, (5) NS + pbz + phe, and (6) NS. Initial and terminal hematocrit, serum amylase activity, and blood ionized calcium concentration were determined. The animals were killed 9 hours after starting the infusion. Macroscopic and histologic changes were scored by a 'blinded' pathologist. Phenylephrine increased the severity of cerulein-induced pancreatitis as manifested by statistically significant adverse changes in serum amylase, hematocrit, ionized calcium, peripancreatitic soap formation, and acinar cell vacuolization. These changes were antagonized by alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade with phenoxybenzamine. It is concluded that phenylephrine is deleterious in acute experimental pancreatitis, the first demonstration of such an effect by a pharmacologic vasoconstrictor, and suggested that microcirculatory changes may be important in the transition of mild to severe pancreatitis. Caution in the use of vasoconstrictor drugs in patients with acute pancreatitis is recommended. 
Clinical effect of continuous gastric cooling for massive GI bleeding in uremia. Continuous gastric cooling (CGC) with dialysate was done in nine hemodiaysis patients with massive gastro-intestinal (GI) bleeding. Eight patients were treated by direct irrigation using a double-lumen naso-gastric (NG) tube without balloon. Four patients with bleeding from the duodenum (B-f-D) had complete hemostasis, and there was only one recurrence. However, two out of four patients with bleeding from the stomach (B-f-S) had complete hemostasis, but all four suffered recurrence. The NG tube had to be reinserted in three patients with B-f-S because of obstruction by clots. The direct irrigation method of CGC thus appears to be more effective for the treatment of B-f-D than B-f-S, so we investigated a three lumen, single-balloon catheter (3L-SBC) with which the bleeding site in the stomach can be cooled and pressed without removing coagula. CGC using the 3L-SBC was done in one patient with B-f-S, and complete hemostasis was obtained without recurrence. 
Preliminary results of left heart bypass in pigs using a heparin-coated centrifugal pump. To assess the feasibility of left ventricular assist without systemic heparinization, we used a commercially available (Sarns 3M) centrifugal pump with tubing set and cannulas, all internally precoated for the purpose of this study with heparin, to bypass the left ventricle in 12 pigs for periods of either 1 or 3 hours. There was no significant activation of clotting and there was no sign of generalized embolization. However, on postmortem studies, 5 kidneys out of 22 examined showed signs of minimal thromboembolism. This experiment shows that artificial left ventricular assist, free of systemic heparinization but using heparin precoating, is feasible and safe, at least for a short period of time. 
Detection of clinically suspected deep vein thrombosis using light reflection rheography. Venography is the current standard for the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Noninvasive tests have differing sensitivity and specificity, are technically demanding, and may be subject to variability in interpretation. Light reflection rheography (LRR) is a noninvasive method utilizing light-emitting diodes and a sensor to measure light reflected from the skin surface. The intensity of reflected light establishes a graphic pattern that indirectly quantifies parameters of venous function by measuring changes in the microcirculation. Seventy-two patients who underwent contrast venography at our institution were also evaluated with LRR. Twenty-four patients were found to have DVT as demonstrated by venography. Of these, 23 also had DVT detected by LRR. No evidence of thrombus was seen in 45 patients studied by venography; in this group, 35 had normal venous emptying indicated by LRR. Using LRR, a sensitivity of 96% was achieved in the evaluation of clinically suspected DVT. This sensitivity is comparable with other noninvasive tests. In addition, LRR is easy to operate, portable, inexpensive, and not technically demanding. Further investigation is needed to confirm these data and further define the role of LRR in the evaluation of clinically suspected DVT. 
Effect of ischemia on protein synthesis in the septic liver. The effect of ischemia on hepatic protein synthesis during sepsis is not known, but is of clinical relevance, since hepatic blood flow decreases during the late phase of sepsis. In this study, synthesis of acute-phase proteins was measured in perfused livers of rats 16 hours after sham operation or cecal ligation and puncture. Livers from each group had 45 minutes of complete ischemia or control perfusion. Protein synthesis was measured during two hour perfusion after the ischemia or control period, by determining incorporation of 3H-leucine into total secreted trichloracetic acid precipitated proteins, immunoprecipitated complement component C3 and albumin and phosphotungstenate-precipitated alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. Lactate, glutamine-oxalacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT) levels in the perfusate were measured during preischemic and postischemic perfusion. Tissue glutathione levels were measured at the end of the perfusion. Synthesis of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein was increased by 100 per cent and albumin synthesis decreased by 46 per cent in septic livers, consistent with an acute-phase response and apparent downregulation of albumin synthesis during early sepsis. Synthesis rates were reduced by 50 to 60 per cent after ischemia in perfused livers from sham operated rats and 70 to 80 per cent in livers from septic rats. Hepatic production of interleukin-1 was not different between the groups during perfusion. GOT and GPT levels increased significantly during ischemia of both nonseptic and septic livers and rapidly returned toward baseline during reperfusion. Lactate levels were higher in perfusate of septic than of nonseptic livers before ischemia and increased further during ischemia. The results suggest that ischemia inhibits production of secreted hepatic proteins similarly in nonseptic and septic livers, but perhaps to a slightly greater extent in septic livers. 
Insulin resistance. A multifaceted syndrome responsible for NIDDM, obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Diabetes mellitus is commonly associated with systolic/diastolic hypertension, and a wealth of epidemiological data suggest that this association is independent of age and obesity. Much evidence indicates that the link between diabetes and essential hypertension is hyperinsulinemia. Thus, when hypertensive patients, whether obese or of normal body weight, are compared with age- and weight-matched normotensive control subjects, a heightened plasma insulin response to a glucose challenge is consistently found. A state of cellular resistance to insulin action subtends the observed hyperinsulinism. With the insulin/glucose-clamp technique, in combination with tracer glucose infusion and indirect calorimetry, it has been demonstrated that the insulin resistance of essential hypertension is located in peripheral tissues (muscle), is limited to nonoxidative pathways of glucose disposal (glycogen synthesis), and correlates directly with the severity of hypertension. The reasons for the association of insulin resistance and essential hypertension can be sought in at least four general types of mechanisms: Na+ retention, sympathetic nervous system overactivity, disturbed membrane ion transport, and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells. Physiological maneuvers, such as calorie restriction (in the overweight patient) and regular physical exercise, can improve tissue sensitivity to insulin; evidence indicates that these maneuvers can also lower blood pressure in both normotensive and hypertensive individuals. Insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia are also associated with an atherogenic plasma lipid profile. Elevated plasma insulin concentrations enhance very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesis, leading to hypertriglyceridemia. Progressive elimination of lipid and apolipoproteins from the VLDL particle leads to an increased formation of intermediate-density and low-density lipoproteins, both of which are atherogenic. Last, insulin, independent of its effects on blood pressure and plasma lipids, is known to be atherogenic. The hormone enhances cholesterol transport into arteriolar smooth muscle cells and increases endogenous lipid synthesis by these cells. Insulin also stimulates the proliferation of arteriolar smooth muscle cells, augments collagen synthesis in the vascular wall, increases the formation of and decreases the regression of lipid plaques, and stimulates the production of various growth factors. In summary, insulin resistance appears to be a syndrome that is associated with a clustering of metabolic disorders, including non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, obesity, hypertension, lipid abnormalities, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. 
Two-dimensional echocardiographic assessment of intracardiac masses in infants and children. We studied six infants and children with intracardiac masses of different causes. The diagnosis was made noninvasively using two-dimensional echocardiography in all six patients. In five patients, surgical excision of the mass was undertaken with good results. Two-dimensional echocardiography is an excellent noninvasive diagnostic tool that allows the clinician to determine the size and location of intracardiac masses in infants and children. 
Toxin production by Bacillus pumilus. Two strains of Bacillus pumilus (M11 and M38) and one strain each of Bacillus cereus (M27), Bacillus subtilis (M67), and Enterobacter agglomerans (M14) were identified from the air of Lancashire cotton mills. These strains were tested for cytopathic effects in Vero cells; B pumilus and B cereus strains were also examined for haemolytic activity, lecithinase production, and proteolytic action on casein. Rounding and clumping of the Vero cells occurred after the addition of supernatants prepared from B pumilus and B cereus strains; finger-like projections developed in the cells treated with B pumilus supernatants. Minimal effects occurred with B subtilis and E agglomerans. After two hours of exposure B pumilus (M11) produced the greatest effect, but treatment with trypan blue showed that most cells exposed to the M11 strain were still alive after 96 hours of exposure; those exposed to the supernatant prepared from the M38 strain of B pumilus were dead. Sheep erythrocytes were lysed more rapidly by B cereus than by B pumilus, B cereus (strongly positive) had a greater effect on lecithin than either of the B pumilus strains (M38 weakly positive, M11 negative). All hydrolised casein but the effect was more rapid with one of the B pumilus (M11) strains. It is concluded that not only do the toxins of B pumilus differ from those of B cereus, but there are also differences between the toxins produced by the two strains of B pumilus (M11 and M38). 
Cardioplegia by way of the coronary sinus for valvular and coronary surgery. Retrograde coronary sinus perfusion has recently reemerged as an attractive means of delivering cardioplegic solutions during open heart procedures. In patients undergoing aortic valve or aortic root surgery, there is no evidence that coronary sinus cardioplegia results in a better myocardial protection than that achieved with the use of standard methods of anterograde cardioplegia delivery. However, the retrograde approach provides distinct technical advantages that might favor its use as an alternative to direct coronary ostial cannulation. In select subgroups of patients undergoing coronary bypass procedures, there is a growing body of evidence that the coronary sinus route may be more effective than the anterograde route because of its superior capacity to ensure homogeneous distribution of cooling and cardioplegia in myocardial areas supplied occluded arteries. The well established safety of coronary sinus cardioplegia in the clinical setting further justifies its inclusion among techniques for ensuring adequate myocardial preservation during surgically induced ischemic arrest. 
Single photon emission computed tomography in patients with acute hydrocephalus or with cerebral ischaemia after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), cerebral blood flow was studied in eight patients with gradual deterioration in the level of consciousness after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Four had cerebral ischaemia and four had acute hydrocephalus. In patients with cerebral ischaemia, single photon emission computed tomography scanning showed multiple regions with decreased uptake of technetium-99M labelled d,l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime (99mTcHM-PAO) mainly in watershed areas. In patients with acute hydrocephalus, decreased uptake was seen mainly in the basal parts of the brain: around the third ventricle, around the temporal horns of the lateral ventricles, and in the basal part of the frontal lobe. After serial lumbar puncture, there was improvement of the uptake of 99mTc HM-PAO in these basal areas in three (convincingly in two and slightly in the other) of the four patients accompanied by clinical improvement in these three patients. These results suggest that patients with acute hydrocephalus and impaired consciousness after SAH, in contrast to patients with cerebral ischaemia, have decreased cerebral blood flow predominantly in the basal parts of the brain. 
Retroperitoneal fibrosis as host response to papillary renal cell carcinoma. A case of papillary renal cell carcinoma associated with retroperitoneal fibrosis is described. This type of fibrosis has not been previously reported to be associated with renal cell carcinoma. The case is of additional interest in that it implicates an immune phenomenon in the pathogenesis of the fibrosis, involving both putative tumor antigens and antigens associated with tumor growth but unrelated to tumor cells. 
A "twilight period" of coronary perfusion: the risk of intraoperative infarction in surgery for main left coronary obstruction. This study investigates the significance of an intraoperative period of low coronary perfusion pressure which may lead to ischemia, infarction, or both, in patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery for tight left main obstruction. "Twilight Period" (TP) was defined as the time interval from initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass to implementation of cold cardioplegia. Fifty-four patients with main left coronary obstruction (greater than 50%) were divided in three groups: Group I (20), TP less than 5 minutes; Group II (15), TP = 5-15 minutes; and Group III (19), TP greater than 15 minutes. Monitoring parameters included: systemic perfusion pressure during TP, perfusion flows, length of TP, time of ischemia, myocardial temperatures during ischemia, postoperative CK-MB level, EKG-detectable infarction, and postoperative therapeutic support requirements. Results: Intraoperative myocardial infarction by EKG was 0% in Group I, 7% in Group II, and 26.3% in Group III; mortality was 0%, 0%, and 15.7%, respectively. CK-MB values were 18 +/- 3.2 IU, Group I; 18.3 +/- 2.5 IU, Group II; and 49.4 +/- 10.3 IU, Group III. Group I vs. III: P 0.01. Levels of postoperative support: Level A, less than 12 hours; Level B, 12-36 hours; and Level C, greater than 36 hours. Intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) was considered Level C. In Group I, 75% (15/20) fell in Level A; 15% (3/20) in Level B and 10% (2/20) in Level C. In Group II, 60% (9/15) fell in Level A; 26.7% (4/15) in Level B; and 13% (2/15) in Level C. In Group III, 36.8% (7/19) fell in Level A; 15.8% (3/19) in Level B; and 47.4% (9/19) in Level C. 
Mechanisms of lymphocytotoxicity induced by extracorporeal photochemotherapy for cutaneous T cell lymphoma. Extracorporeal photochemotherapy is an effective treatment for cutaneous T cell lymphoma but its mode of action is uncertain. The reduction in viability of patients' photoirradiated buffy coat lymphocytes was correlated with a 35% increase in DNA single-strand breaks and marked decreases in cellular ATP and NAD levels (to 58 and 34% of control, respectively) immediately after photoirradiation. Complementary in vitro studies were conducted with normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes using a Therakos ultraviolet A (UVA) light box. UVA light was cytotoxic on its own but was potentiated by 8-methoxysporalen. 3-aminobenzamide, a poly (ADP-ribose) synthetase inhibitor, mitigated the cytotoxic effect of ultraviolet A light in the presence of 8-methoxypsoralen in lymphocytes and reduced the amount of nucleotide depletion they caused. 10 J/cm2 of UVA light in the presence of 300 ng/ml 8-methoxypsoralen increased the poly (ADP-ribose) synthetase activity of peripheral blood lymphocytes. Exposing lymphocytes to deoxycoformycin and deoxyadenosine was found to induce biochemical and physical effects similar to those of photochemotherapy. In summary, we have shown that the lymphocytotoxic effect of extracorporeal photochemotherapy for cutaneous T cell lymphoma is apparently mediated by DNA damage, subsequent poly (ADP-ribosyl)ation and adenine nucleotide depletion. It is not known how the DNA damage and resultant biochemical effects relate to the possible immunological mechanism of extracorporeal photochemotherapy; however, it is possible that its effects can be mimicked by other DNA-damaging agents. 
Tumor growth dependent on Kaposi's sarcoma-derived fibroblast growth factor inhibited by pentosan polysulfate. A neoangiogenic response is critical for the unrestricted growth of solid tumors beyond a few millimeters in diameter. Release of adequate growth-stimulating activity from tumor cells is obviously required for the stimulation of blood vessel growth, and blockade of such stimulatory activity should repress tumor growth at the microscopic level. To test this hypothesis and to study appropriate inhibitors, we used a human adrenal cancer cell line (SW-13/K-fgf) engineered to secrete Kaposi's sarcoma-derived fibroblast growth factor (K-FGF), which we previously showed to induce growth of highly vascularized subcutaneous tumors in animals by autocrine and paracrine stimuli. In the present study, we tested different polysulfates for their selective inhibition of proliferation induced by K-FGF versus proliferation independent of K-FGF. Suramin and dextran sulfate showed slight selective inhibition of K-FGF-induced proliferation, ie, inhibition three- and five-fold greater, respectively, than the inhibition of proliferation independent of K-FGF. In contrast, heparin was inactive. The heparin analogue pentosan polysulfate (PPS), however, showed selective inhibition that was more than 2000-fold greater. The inhibitory effects of PPS on growth of SW-13/K-fgf cells, as well as endothelial cells, were fully reversible by an excess of added FGF. Daily intraperitoneal injections of PPS were tolerated well by athymic nude mice and prevented growth of subcutaneous SW-13/K-fgf tumor xenografts. PPS will be a useful tool to elucidate the effects of FGFs in vitro and in vivo and appears to be a prototype for the development of tumoricidal therapy based on targeting of growth factors. 
CT of acute pancreatitis: correlation between lack of contrast enhancement and pancreatic necrosis. This study was performed to determine if a correlation exists between pancreatic parenchymal enhancement or lack thereof on contrast-enhanced CT and surgical evidence of pancreatic necrosis. Accurate CT assessment of pancreatic vascular perfusion would be helpful in preoperative planning before pancreatic debridement and necrosectomy. The CT scans and medical records were blindly and retrospectively reviewed in 13 patients with the operative diagnosis of pancreatic necrosis. In all cases, CT examinations preceded surgery within 72 hr. Surgical and pathologic findings served as the gold standards for the diagnosis of pancreatic necrosis. Seven (54%) of 13 patients had a region or regions of parenchymal necrosis within the head, body, and/or tail of the pancreas seen during surgery. All seven of these patients had no pancreatic enhancement on CT in at least one region of the pancreas (CT sensitivity = 100%). In four of the seven, two regions were found to be necrotic at surgery, but only one of the two segments did not enhance on CT scans. In three of the seven patients, lack of contrast enhancement on CT (no enhancement of the pancreatic head and body in two patients and throughout the gland in another) correlated with necrosis in the same regions at surgery. The remaining six (46%) patients, who had peripancreatic or small, focal, and/or superficial areas of pancreatic necrosis at surgery, had normal pancreatic enhancement on CT. Our results show that regions of pancreatic necrosis found surgically correlate with lack of enhancement of pancreatic parenchyma on CT. Peripancreatic necrosis and minor areas of focal or superficial parenchymal necrosis were not detected on CT. 
Shunt failure caused by valve collapse. Shunt failure due to collapse of the Mini-Holter valve was observed 13 times in 11 out of 179 children with an implanted Mini-Holter ventriculo-peritoneal (VP) or ventriculo-atrial (VA) shunt during a 10 year period. Intussusception of the proximal or distal end of the valve thus caused a shunt failure rate of 6% of the children in this series. Two children experienced this complication twice. All collapsed valves were part of a VP shunt system. Because of this experience use of the mini valve was abandoned and an adult Holter valve was implanted in children over the age of one month. Breakdown of this particular valve has not occurred in 102 children and two hundred adults with the adult Holter shunt system. 
Myocardial ischemia during daily activities: the importance of increased myocardial oxygen demand. The role of increased myocardial oxygen demand in the pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia occurring during daily activities was evaluated in 50 patients with coronary artery disease and exercise-induced ST segment depression. Each patient underwent ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring for ST segment shifts during normal daily activities and symptom-limited bicycle exercise testing with continuous ECG monitoring. All 50 patients had ST depression greater than or equal to 0.1 mV during exercise. A total of 241 episodes of ST depression were noted in the ambulatory setting in 31 patients; only 6% of these were accompanied by angina pectoris. Significant (0.1 mV) ST depression during ambulatory monitoring was preceded by a mean increase in heart rate of 27 +/- 12 beats/min. Patients with ischemia during daily activities developed ST depression earlier during exercise (7.9 +/- 4.4 vs. 14.2 +/- 6.4 min, p less than 0.001) and tended to have significant ECG changes at a lower exercise heart rate and rate-pressure product than did those without ST depression during ambulatory monitoring. In the 31 patients with ischemia during daily activities, the mean heart rate associated with ST depression in the ambulatory setting was closely correlated with the heart rate precipitating ECG changes during exercise testing (r = 0.74, p less than 0.001). 
Renal artery stenosis: preliminary results of treatment with the Strecker stent. Use of the Strecker flexible balloon-expandable tantalum stent for treatment of renal artery stenosis after failed angioplasty or transaortic thromboendarterectomy was evaluated in 10 patients (nine hypertensive, one normotensive). Left (n = 3) and right (n = 5) renal arteries were involved; renal artery stenosis in two patients had developed after kidney transplantation. Indications for stent placement were inadequate immediate postangioplasty response (n = 7), development of considerable restenosis after angioplasty (n = 1), and obstructing intimal flaps following transaortic endarterectomy (n = 2). Stent placement was technically successful (less than 20% residual stenosis) and patency was preserved in eight patients. Of the seven hypertensive patients with successful implantation, two were cured, three had improvement, and two had no change at latest follow-up evaluation (mean, 10.6 months; range, 6-12 months). The Strecker stent may be helpful in treating restenosis after failed revascularization procedures, although the precise indication, true safety, and long-term efficacy of stent placement in renal arteries will not be known until trials with more subjects and longer follow-up periods are completed. 
Transoral decompression evaluated by cine-mode magnetic resonance imaging: a case of basilar impression accompanied by Chiari malformation. Cine-mode magnetic resonance imaging provides simultaneous images of cerebrospinal fluid flow dynamics. A patient with a basilar impression accompanied by a Chiari malformation and von Recklinghausen's disease who underwent transoral decompression is reported. Preoperative cine-mode magnetic resonance imaging visualized an associated obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid pulsatile flow at the level of the foramen magnum. Tonsilar herniation (Chiari I malformation) and hydrocephalus were also present. Postoperatively, the obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid flow was resolved concomitant with the correction of the cervicomedullary angulation. On the basis of observations made by magnetic resonance imaging, the surgical treatment of basilar impression accompanied by Chiari malformation is briefly discussed. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide response to cardioversion of atrial flutter and fibrillation and role of associated heart failure. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) concentrations were measured before and 1 hour after cardioversion in 40 patients (27 with atrial flutter and 13 with atrial fibrillation) admitted for elective cardioversion. Fourteen (11 with atrial flutter and 3 with atrial fibrillation) had clinical evidence of congestive heart failure (CHF). Conversion to sinus rhythm was successful in 39 patients. The mean ANP concentration in the entire group decreased after cardioversion from 38 +/- 4 to 17 +/- 2 pmol/liter (p less than 0.001). In the subgroup with CHF, the ANP level, which was not significantly higher than that in the group without CHF, decreased from 47 +/- 8 to 19 +/- 3 pmol/liter (p less than 0.01). Neither mode of cardioversion (spontaneous 1, pharmacologic 2 and direct-current countershock 36) nor associated CHF influenced ANP response to cardioversion. One patient with atrial flutter and "failed cardioversion" had unchanged ANP level. The decrease after cardioversion in ANP concentration correlated with its control level (r = 0.88, p less than 0.001) but not with the decrease in heart rate. The ANP level in patients with atrial fibrillation was 45 +/- 9 vs 38 +/- 5 pmol/liter in those with atrial flutter (difference not significant). Arrhythmia duration, left atrial size, and ventricular rate or arterial blood pressure did not correlate with ANP concentration in any subgroup. It is concluded that (1) the ANP level is elevated comparably in patients with both atrial flutter and fibrillation regardless of the presence or absence of CHF; and (2) the level decreases, independent of the mode of cardioversion or presence of CHF, promptly after successful cardioversion. 
Quantitation of estrogen and androgen receptors in hepatocellular carcinoma and adjacent normal human liver. Sex hormones have been shown to influence the development and course of several liver diseases. The worldwide predominance of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in males has led to the suggestion that this disease might be hormone-responsive. Therefore, the hepatic estrogen (ER) and androgen receptor (AR) status of liver specimens from such patients was investigated. Samples were obtained from three female and six males patients undergoing liver resection; in each case, a small sample of both the tumor and adjacent normal tissue was collected. All patients had primary hepatocellular carcinoma without cirrhosis. In most cases, the tumor and the normal specimen had an equivalent content of cytosolic ER; however, three of the tumor samples (one female and two male) displayed considerably elevated cytosolic ER levels as compared to that of the normal tissue. In every sample, the tumor contained less nuclear ER than did the normal liver. When AR was measured, tumors of three patients (one female and two male) demonstrated a twofold elevation in cytosolic AR as compared to adjacent normal tissue. In the two male patients, an approximately twofold greater nuclear AR was found. Two other samples from male patients showed a modest elevation of cytosolic AR in the tumors. The patients whose tumors showed elevations in ER were not the same patients as those in whom the AR was elevated. Thus, these studies indicate that certain, but not all, specimens of HCC demonstrate either elevated ER or AR and suggest that a determination of receptor content might be useful prior to initiation of certain antihormone therapies. 
Premenstrual syndrome. Tailoring treatment to symptoms. Despite the interest in premenstrual syndrome (PMS) taken by the media and the public in recent years, some women still do not recognize the cyclic nature of their symptoms. Thus, PMS continues to elude diagnosis. Dr Nader discusses the major categories of symptoms and when they occur, summarizes theories on the cause of PMS, and comments on how well these theories have been substantiated by testing. Choosing agents for treatment on the basis of symptoms to be controlled is also described. 
CHARGE and Joubert syndromes: are they a single disorder? A patient with the CHARGE association (Coloboma of the eye, Heart defect, Atresia of the choana, Retarded growth and development, Genital hypoplasia, and Ear anomalies or deafness) had intermittent hyperpnea and cerebellar hypoplasia; therefore, he had both the CHARGE association and Joubert syndrome. The 2 syndromes have not been previously linked. We discuss their similarities and review the literature. 
Current medical management of cirrhotic ascites. The presence of ascites may indicate a number of hepatic and extra-hepatic disorders. This situation requires comprehensive evaluation to determine the underlying cause. The evaluation and management of ascites in patients with known cirrhosis is very important since this manifestation of portal hypertension has a detrimental effect on the prognosis for such patients. 
Hepatic colorectal metastases: correlation of MR imaging and pathologic appearance. Results of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging examinations for 76 patients with proved colorectal metastases to the liver were retrospectively reviewed. Signal intensity and morphologic patterns of 157 lesions were scored. The morphologic patterns were correlated with the histologic material obtained at segmental hepatic resections or excisional biopsies in 33 patients. In 154 lesions (98%) colorectal metastases to the liver were found to be hyperintense on MR images acquired with a long repetition time/echo time; in 77 lesions (49%) central low-signal-intensity changes were seen. Virtually all larger lesions demonstrated areas of low signal intensity within the tumor. These areas were found to reflect histologic findings of coagulative necrosis and desmoplasia within the tumor. Peripheral hyperintense halos around central hypointense areas encompassed the growing tumor margin and variable degrees of cell necrosis. Hypointense peripheral rims, which correspond to abnormalities of surrounding hepatic parenchyma, were seen in 40 lesions (25%). This sign should not be assumed to represent the fibrous pseudocapsule of primary hepatic malignancy. No correlation between tumor grade (differentiation) and tumor morphology was observed. 
Alterations of the nailfold capillary morphology associated with Raynaud phenomenon in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Quantitative analysis of nailfold capillary morphology was performed in age and sex matched groups of 29 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) presenting Raynaud phenomenon (RP), 29 RP negative patients with SLE with the same duration of the disease, and 29 healthy controls. Percentages of tortuous, meandering and bushy capillaries were significantly increased in both groups of patients without influence of RP. Capillary density was lower, mean diameters of the capillary loops were higher in patients, especially when RP was present (at the venular branch in microns, mean +/- SD: controls: 15.0 +/- 2.0, RP negative patients with SLE: 17.6 +/- 3.6, RP positive patients with SLE: 20.5 +/- 6.3). In a subgroup of 13 patients with frequent Raynaud's attacks (more than 1/week), diameters were still higher (22.1 +/- 7.1, p to controls less than 0.0005; p to RP negative patients less than 0.05). In patients with SLE, the prevalence of RP seems not to be associated with the increased number of abnormal capillaries but with capillary enlargement, correlating with the frequency of attacks. 
A review of 32 cases of tardive dystonia. OBJECTIVE: Tardive dystonia, historically combined with tardive dyskinesia, is now viewed as probably having a different pathophysiology, course, outcome, and treatment response than tardive dyskinesia. In addition, patients with tardive dystonia are reported to be younger, and most are men. This study evaluates characteristics of 32 patients with tardive dystonia and compares results to other reports. METHOD: Twenty-four patients had been referred for research purposes and were videotaped, while eight had been followed clinically. Two of the authors reviewed all available videotapes and clinical reports to assess the course of symptoms over time. For global ratings and ratings of affected body parts, two scales were used: the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) for tardive dyskinesia and a similar scale for tardive dystonia. The method of case finding does not provide incidence or prevalence data for tardive dystonia. RESULTS: Fifty-nine percent of the patients experienced onset of tardive dystonia symptoms within 6 years of antipsychotic drug exposure; women had a shorter exposure time. No patient had complete remission of tardive dystonia symptoms, and 22 were moderately or severely impaired when their movements were most prominent. CONCLUSIONS: While epidemiological studies of tardive dystonia have yet to be performed, these results support the observations of others that most patients with tardive dystonia are men, have a short history of exposure to antipsychotic drugs, and may initially present with blepharospasm. Tardive dystonia rarely remits completely, can cause notable disability, and may partially respond to anticholinergic agents. 
The use of magnetic resonance imaging in the study of edema. A method of studying edema using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is presented. Three patients with lower extremity edema due to congestive heart failure were imaged with a 0.6 tesla system before and after diuresis. Edge detection algorithms were utilized to precisely outline regions of interest for quantification. Water and nonwater elements were separated within the region of interest to quantify water content. The results show that: (1) Edema can be quantified by use of MRI. (2) Subcutaneous edema is distributed along defined planes (ie, nonuniformly). (3) Increased water content is present not only in the subcutaneous tissue but also in deeper lying muscle. 
Hypertension and coronary artery disease. Can the chain be broken? Hypertension is an established risk factor for all the clinical sequelae of coronary artery disease. Despite this, individual therapeutic trials of antihypertensive therapy have not demonstrated the expected reduction in coronary morbidity and mortality. This apparent failure is perhaps not surprising when one considers the multifactorial nature of coronary artery disease and the different ways in which hypertension may affect the coronary circulation. Much debate has also centered on the antihypertensive therapy used in major trials in that it may in some way prevent the reduction in coronary mortality. However, thus far no clear evidence of a harmful effect has emerged. Reducing coronary mortality in hypertensive patients is a major challenge but one that can be effectively surmounted by approaching these different factors in a concerted manner. The ultimate goal must be to prevent the development of hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but until such time as that can be achieved, the early detection of hypertension is mandatory. The optimal levels of systolic and diastolic blood pressures must be established. Studies on the more recent antihypertensive agents hold promise for a more specific effect on the atherosclerotic process as well as sustained control of arterial blood pressure. In this regard, it would seem essential to develop more precise ways of quantifying atherosclerosis and thus clarifying the nature of its relation to hypertension. Finally, management of hypertension must include precise assessment of the patient's overall cardiovascular risk status and appropriate and aggressive management of all risk factors for coronary artery disease. 
Platelet-activating factor produces shock, in vivo complement activation, and tissue injury in mice. We previously showed that TNF and endotoxin (LPS) synergize to activate the complement system and produce shock and bowel injury in normal mice. However, C5-deficient mice were protected from these adverse effects. In this study, we show that in mice, platelet-activating factor (PAF) antagonist prevents TNF- and LPS-induced complement activation, bowel injury, and death, indicating that PAF mediates the actions of TNF and LPS. We then examined the role of the complement system in PAF-induced shock and tissue injury. We found that 1) PAF (3 micrograms/kg) induces shock, hemoconcentration, bowel necrosis, and death in normal mice, whereas C5-deficient mice are protected from these effects. (Protection was abrogated when the dose of PAF was raised to 5 micrograms/kg.) Furthermore, when C5-deficient mice were reconstituted with normal serum, they also developed shock, bowel injury, and death in response to PAF. Thus, C5 is required for PAF to induce injury. 2) PAF activates the complement system in vivo, but not in vitro. The mechanism of complement activation by PAF is unclear. Inasmuch as PAF stimulates neutrophils to release protease that may activate the complement system, we examined the effect of neutrophil depletion on PAF-induced injury and complement activation. We found that neutrophil depletion fails to prevent PAF-induced complement activation, although PAF-induced lethality is much reduced. We conclude that PAF causes complement activation, and acts in synergy with active complement fragments to produce shock and tissue injury. Neutrophils probably do not play the pivotal role in PAF-induced complement activation. 
Leiomyosarcoma arising in atypical fibromuscular hyperplasia (phyllodes tumor) of the prostate with distant metastasis. An extremely rare neoplasm of the prostate, commonly known as phyllodes type of atypical prostatic hyperplasia, is described in a 57-year-old man. Over a 2-year period, the atypical smooth muscle component has transformed into leiomyosarcoma, and eventually metastasized to the bones and the lungs. Such an evolution has never been documented for this tumor. 
Rationale for development of low-molecular-weight heparins and their clinical potential in the prevention of postoperative venous thrombosis. Interest in low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) as potential antithrombotic agents was stimulated by two observations in the mid-1970s and early 1980s. The first was finding that LMWH fractions prepared from unfractionated heparin (UFH) progressively lost their ability to prolong the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) while retaining their ability to inhibit Factor Xa. The second was the observation that LMWHs prepared by chemical depolarization of UFH are antithrombotic in experimental animal models but produce less microvascular bleeding in experimental models for an equivalent antithrombotic effect than the UFH from which they are derived. Subsequently, it was shown that LMWHs inhibit platelet function and impair vascular permeability less than standard heparin and that LMWHs have a longer biological half-life than standard heparin. A number of LMWHs have been evaluated in clinical trials in general and orthopedic surgery and in the treatment of venous thrombosis. LMWHs are highly effective in orthopedic surgery, where they appear to be more effective than standard heparin. LMWHs have also been shown to be either as effective or more effective than UFH in preventing postoperative thrombosis following general surgery. In preliminary studies, LMWHs appear to be as effective as standard heparin in the treatment of venous thrombosis, but larger studies are required using clinically relevant outcome measures. 
Cortical blindness and residual vision: is the "second" visual system in humans capable of more than rudimentary visual perception? We studied 12 patients with static cortical blindness to evaluate residual vision after destruction of area 17 and to assess the visual capacity of the subcortical "second" visual system in humans. In each case, the cause was bilateral infarction of the occipital lobes. Five patients had total blindness, and four had residual rudimentary vision (RRV), characterized by homonymous areas of light perception in the peripheral field and ability to detect moving objects. Only three patients had the ability to read; two of these had spared macular vision, and the other had spared left homonymous hemimaculae and spared temporal crescent. Neuroimaging and visual evoked potentials (VEPs) correlated with the extent of the visual dysfunction. Total destruction of area 17 bilaterally was associated with total permanent visual loss. The larger the amount of spared visual cortex, the better the vision. Positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) demonstrated retained metabolic activity in islands of preserved area 17 in patients with some residual vision. VEPs were present in totally blind individuals. We conclude that, in humans, useful visual function is preserved only when a critical amount of area 17 is spared. The subcortical second system may participate in the generation of VEPs, but is incapable of conscious visual perception. 
Estramustine binding protein in human brain-tumor tissue. Estramustine, an estradiol-17 beta and nornitrogen mustard complex, is used in the treatment of advanced prostatic carcinoma. A specific estramustine binding protein (EMBP) is important for its cytotoxic action, and the presence of EMBP has previously been demonstrated in rat and human prostatic cancer tissue. Significant levels of EMBP were detected by radioimmunoassay in human brain-tumor tissue. The EMBP concentrations (expressed as ng/mg protein) in 16 astrocytomas (mean 2.6 ng/mg, range 0.5 to 6.2 ng/mg) and seven meningiomas (mean 5.1 ng/mg, range 0.3 to 9.3 ng/mg) were significantly higher than that found in four samples of epileptic brain (mean 0.7 ng/mg, range 0.5 to 1 ng/mg) and 18 samples of normal brain (mean 0.5 ng/mg, range 0.2 to 1.0 ng/mg). The uptake, metabolism, and antiproliferative effects of the prostatic anticancer agent estramustine have been previously demonstrated in cultured glioma cells. The presence of EMBP may suggest a selective binding and effectiveness in human brain-tumor tissue. 
Determination of pulse wave velocities with computerized algorithms. Careful determination of pulse wave velocity is important in the study of arterial viscoelastic properties, wave reflections, and ventricular-arterial interactions. In spite of its increasingly widespread use, there is as yet no standardized method for its determination. Most studies have manually identified the transit time of the pressure wave front as it travels over a known distance in the arterial system, but the issues of accuracy and reproducibility have not been addressed. This study was designed to investigate the efficacy of four computerized algorithms in the determination of pulse wave velocities in invasive as well as in noninvasive pressure determinations. The four methods were the identification of: (1) the point of minimum diastolic pressure, (2) the point at which the first derivative of pressure is maximum, (3) the point at which the second derivative of pressure is maximum, and (4) the point yielded by the intersection of a line tangent to the initial systolic upstroke of the pressure tracing and a horizontal line through the minimum point. High-fidelity aortic pressure recordings were obtained in 26 patients with a multi-sensor micromanometer catheter. Noninvasive brachial and radial pressure waveforms were recorded in 11 volunteers with external piezoelectric transducers. The results show that the first derivative method consistently provided results that were different from the other methods for both the invasive and noninvasive methods because of changes in the structure of the upstroke as the arterial pulse propagates distally. Although the minimum method worked well for the invasive determinations, it was erratic with the noninvasive determinations, probably because of the higher amount of noise and reflection in the latter. Among the four algorithms, the second derivative and the intersecting tangents methods worked well with both invasive and noninvasive determinations with mean variation coefficients of less than 7% and correlation coefficients between the methods of greater than 0.90 for all data. In conclusion, computerized algorithms allow accurate determination of pulse wave velocity in invasively and noninvasively measured arterial pressure waveforms. 
CT of the gastrointestinal tract: principles and interpretation. The experience accumulated in daily abdominal CT scanning and CT evaluation of gastrointestinal lesions has generated helpful technical guidelines and some reliable principles of interpretation. These general principles are briefly discussed in this review, and the importance of performing a CT examination that is adequate for the detection and evaluation of gastrointestinal lesions is stressed. CT features useful in differentiating benign from malignant lesions, limitations and pitfalls in CT interpretation, overlap in the CT appearance, and classical CT features leading to specific diagnoses are described and illustrated. Although CT is established as one of the most important techniques for imaging the gastrointestinal tract, it should be used selectively and only in the context of appropriate clinical and conventional radiologic examination. CT should not be regarded as competing with, but as complementing, barium examination of the gastrointestinal tract. 
Visual field defects in diabetic patients with primary open-angle glaucoma. We reviewed the automated visual field tests of 110 nondiabetic and 87 diabetic patients with primary open-angle glaucoma randomly selected from a large glaucoma practice to investigate a possible qualitative difference in the pattern of visual field defects between nondiabetic and diabetic patients with primary open-angle glaucoma. A single reviewer analyzed, in masked fashion, the visual field tests of each patient and decided whether or not visual field defects were present mainly in the inferior half of the visual field. Of the 110 nondiabetic patients, 40 (36.4%) had visual field defects located mainly in the inferior half of the visual field in one or both eyes, whereas 56 of the 87 (64.4%) diabetic patients had such defects. This difference was statistically significant (P = .0001). We believe that a vascular factor, such as that attributable to diabetes mellitus, may influence glaucomatous optic nerve damage, thus causing a difference in the pattern of visual field loss in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma. 
C6 glioma-astrocytoma cell and fetal astrocyte migration into artificial basement membrane: a permissive substrate for neural tumors but not fetal astrocytes. Cortically homografted C6 glioma-astrocytoma cells both invade the rat host brain as a mass and migrate as individual cells. In contrast, fetal astrocytes derived from homografted whole pieces of fetal cortex migrate only as individual cells throughout the brain of the rat but are not capable of invasion. Our experiment explored the migratory capacity (over 7 days) of cultured purified fetal astrocytes and C6 cells after seeding 10(6) cells on a hydrated artificial basement membrane wafer (Matrigel). The artificial basement membrane wafer was not a suitable substrate for the growth of cultured fetal astrocytes. In contrast, C6 cells migrated as individual cells from the surface of the wafer into the substrate. Individual C6 cells migrated 1.8 mm in the first 4 days and then ceased migration. The C6 cells were observed at the base of a digestion tube that extended from and was open to the surface of the wafer. At 3 days, micropockets were observed to form around each C6 cell at the base of each tube. By 7 days, the majority of pockets observed were large and contained several C6 cells. These multiple cell groups appeared to be progenitors of tumor masses. These data indicate that C6 glioma-astrocytoma cells, which in vivo appear to be a model for glioblastoma multiforme, primarily migrate as individual cells through artificial basement membrane and secondarily form tumor masses. Progenitor tumor masses form by coalescence of individual C6 cell micropockets or the division of a single cell in an individual micropocket. 
Liver metastases: results of percutaneous ethanol injection in 14 patients. Percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) was performed under ultrasound (US) guidance in the outpatient department in 14 patients with 21 metastases 1.0-3.8 cm in diameter. The primary cancer was colorectal adenocarcinoma (seven patients), adenocarcinoma of the stomach (four patients), abdominal leiomyosarcoma (one patient), gastrinoma of unknown origin (one patient), and bronchial carcinoid (one patient). The indicators of therapeutic efficacy were US, computed tomography, fine-needle biopsy, and serologic markers. No complications occurred after a total of 175 treatment sessions. Complete response was obtained in 11 lesions, nine of which were less than 2 cm in diameter, and in all endocrine metastases (four lesions in two patients) with a maximum, recurrence-free follow-up of 38 months. Carcinoembryonic antigen values decreased in all patients but one for a 2-6-month period. The natural course of metastatic disease strictly limits the applicability of PEI, a local treatment. Single, metachronous, nonoperable metastasis of adenocarcinoma and endocrine metastases seem to be the only indications for PEI. 
Theophylline-associated seizures with "therapeutic" or low toxic serum concentrations: risk factors for serious outcome in adults. We report 12 adults with seizures associated with serum theophylline levels between 14 and 35 mg/l. The seizures were frequently prolonged, and outcome was generally poor with eight deaths. Although we did not identify comparable control groups, possible risk factors for serious outcome in theophylline-associated seizures were age, previous brain injury or disease, severe pulmonary disease, and possibly low serum albumin level. In patients with these risk factors, serum theophylline levels should be maintained below 10 to 15 mg/l. 
Multivessel PTCA using the hugging balloon technique based on single guide catheter and dual balloon-on-a-wire systems. For percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of oversized arteries, often-times a satisfactory dilatation cannot be achieved with conventional balloon systems due to the unavailability of adequately sized balloons. This fact has contributed to a higher restenosis rate for this group of patients. We were able to obtain a satisfactory dilatation result in an oversized right coronary artery with a shepherd's crook configuration and eccentric anatomy at the origin using two balloon-on-a-wire systems and an Amplatz type guiding catheter. Although such favorable dilatation of an oversized artery using this "hugging balloon technique" can be expected, issues do exist such as difficult maneuverability and estimation of the balloon size obtained through simultaneous dual balloon inflation wherein size does not simply equal the sum of the two balloon catheters. It is hoped that there will be further improvements of the technique and development of new systems. At this time, however, it is felt that this is the most effective and reasonable strategy to achieve a high chance of success in oversized vessel lesions. 
Combined interferon alfa and doxorubicin in the treatment of advanced cervical cancer. Interferon alfa and doxorubicin have been shown to have synergistic effects when tested in vitro with cells derived from cervical cancers. A clinical trial was designed, testing interferon alfa plus doxorubicin in patients with advanced or recurrent cervical cancers. Twenty-one patients were given interferon alfa, 10 million units per square meter intramuscularly and 10 million units per square meter intravenously over a 30-minute infusion period. One hour later 20 mg/m2 doxorubicin was given intravenously slowly over a 2-hour period. Treatments were repeated once weekly for 3 weeks. Initial response evaluation was done at week 5, and treatment was continued on an every-other-week schedule for patients showing favorable responses or stable disease. Bone marrow, hepatic, and renal toxicities were minimal. Fever and malaise were the major sources of toxicity. Of the 17 evaluable patients, six had clinical partial responses. Two of the responders have enjoyed more than 5 years' survival. This regimen is well tolerated and does have efficacy in some patients with advanced cervical cancers. 
Repetitive sinoatrial exit block as the major mechanism of drug-provoked long sinus or atrial pause. Prolonged sinus or atrial pause occurred in six patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia after drug administration. All six patients had normal sinus node function during control electrophysiologic study; the sinus cycle length ranged from 510 to 900 ms (mean 743 +/- 141) and the longest sinus node recovery time ranged from 800 to 1,230 ms (mean 1,018 +/- 168). A long sinus or atrial pause occurring at the termination of tachycardia or cessation of atrial pacing, ranging from 3,100 to 8,200 ms (mean 6,270 +/- 1,674), was provoked by the administration of various drugs. These included an intravenous bolus injection of adenosine triphosphate (5 mg; one patient), intravenous bolus injection of verapamil (5 mg; one patient), a combination of a single oral dose of diltiazem (120 mg) and propranolol (20 to 40 mg; three patients), oral diltiazem (240 mg/day; one patient) and a combination of oral diltiazem (240 mg/day) and propranolol (160 mg/day; one patient). In five patients, low frequency deflections suggestive of sinus node activity with a cycle length between 620 and 3,500 ms were recorded during pauses. These findings suggest that repetitive sinoatrial exit block was responsible for the pause. Sinus slowing with a long arrest suggesting suppression of sinus automaticity was also noted in three of these five patients; the longest sinus arrest in these three patients was 4,160, 4,800 and greater than 4,910 ms, respectively. The remaining patient with a pause of 6,840 ms had no recordable sinus activity, either reflecting suppression of sinus automaticity or technical failure. 
Intracranial aneurysms in sickle-cell anemia: clinical features and pathogenesis. Intracranial aneurysms are an unusual complication of sickle-cell anemia; only 15 patients have been described in the world literature. An additional 15 patients with sickle-cell anemia and subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from ruptured intracranial aneurysms are presented. There was a high incidence of multiple aneurysms (60%); some of which were in unusual locations. The clinical and pathological features of this series of patients have provided a paradigm for acquired aneurysm formation that may be applicable to other intracranial aneurysms. Thirteen patients underwent craniotomy and clip ligation; the perioperative management of these patients is discussed. Of these 13, eight had a good recovery, three were left with moderate disability, one patient died of surgical complications, and one died of complications related to sickle-cell anemia. Two of the 15 patients died of SAH. The authors propose that endothelial injury from the abnormal adherence of sickle erythrocytes to the endothelium is the initiating event in arterial wall injury. Subsequently, there is fragmentation of the internal elastic lamina and degeneration of the smooth-muscle layer. Hemodynamic stress at these loci of arterial wall damage results in aneurysm formation. This hypothesis also explains other cerebrovascular manifestations of sickle-cell anemia, namely vaso-occlusive disease and hemorrhage without aneurysm formation. Pathological material from this series and data from the literature are presented to support this hypothesis. 
Time course of recovery from frostbitten phrenics after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis developed in a patient after coronary artery bypass graft surgery during which cold cardioplegia was used. The patient's progress and eventual recovery over an 18-month period is described, with particular reference to chest wall motion and respiratory pressure measurements. 
Necrotizing bronchial aspergillosis in a patient receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy for non-small cell lung carcinoma. We describe a case of necrotizing bronchial aspergillosis which developed after lobectomy following neoadjuvant chemotherapy in a 73-year-old woman with non-small cell lung cancer. The lesion was visualized and biopsied through FBS, which played a useful role for early diagnosis of this disease. Itraconazole therapy was effective and safe. 
Effect of antihypertensive therapy on focal stroke in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Spontaneously hypertensive rats subjected to focal cerebral ischemia develop larger infarcts than normotensive rat strains. To determine whether antihypertensive therapy decreases infarct volume in hypertensive rats, 60 13-week-old animals were treated with 20 mg/kg hydralazine added daily to the drinking water for 1.5, 6, 10, or 16 weeks and then subjected to focal cerebral ischemia by tandem right common carotid artery and middle cerebral artery occlusion. Blood pressure in the treated groups was substantially lower than that in untreated groups after 1 week of hydralazine therapy and remained lower for the entire treatment period in all four experiments. Mean infarct volume in spontaneously hypertensive rats treated for 10 (p = 0.02) or 16 (p = 0.005) weeks, but not 1.5 or 6 weeks, was significantly less than that in the untreated controls. The percentage reduction of infarct volume in animals treated for 10 and 16 weeks was similar. This study demonstrates that antihypertensive therapy decreases infarct volume in hypertensive rats subjected to focal cerebral ischemia. This treatment effect appears to be dependent on the duration of therapy, and the magnitude of the treatment effect seems to plateau by 10 weeks of therapy. 
The effects of resection of the proximal part of the fibula on stability of the knee and on gait. We studied six patients to determine the effects of unilateral marginal resection of the proximal part of the fibula on stability of the knee and on gait. At the time of the operation, the fibular collateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps femoris were reattached, but no attempt was made to stabilize the fibula otherwise. The patients were tested an average of sixty-one months after operation. Stability of the knee was measured with an instrumented system. Gait was evaluated with an optical electronic three-dimensional digitizing system and a multicomponent force-platform. The gait of six healthy control subjects of similar age was also studied, and the reproducibility of measurements of stability of the knee was investigated in four healthy adults. There were significant differences between the side on which an operation had been done and the contralateral side with regard to the extent of anterior translation and of total anterior-posterior translation of the tibia at both 20 and 90 degrees of flexion of the knee, and in total varus and valgus rotation of the knee (the number of degrees from a position of maximum varus to one of maximum valgus angulation) at 20 degrees of flexion. The measurements of gait and of motion of the knee were found to be normal when compared with those in the control subjects. In the ground-reaction measurements, there were some significant differences from normal in the medial-lateral plane, but they were clinically unimportant. Resection of the proximal part of the fibula can lead to instability of the knee. 
Bacterial meningitis following spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section. We report a case of meningitis caused by inadvertent introduction of bacteria following spinal anaesthesia for Caesarean section. The technique of performing the spinal anaesthesia is reviewed. Meningitis may occur, although very rarely, despite meticulous aseptic techniques. It is vital that meningitis should be considered in the differential diagnoses of post-spinal headache when patients present with headaches, pyrexia and meningism in the postoperative or postpartum period. 
The effects of chronic endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy on portal pressure in cirrhotics. The effect of obliterating esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy on portal pressure was prospectively studied in 11 cirrhotic patients with variceal hemorrhage. Portal venous pressure gradient, determined as the difference between transhepatic portal and hepatic vein pressure, increased by a mean of 31.1% +/- 14.5% in 8 (73%) and decreased by a mean of 30.1% +/- 11.7% in 3 (27%) patients, with no statistically significant change overall (P = 0.1). These changes in portal venous pressure gradient occurred despite an improvement in the laboratory and clinical parameters of hepatic function. Deep abdominal sonography with color flow imaging at variceal obliteration showed patent paraumbilical veins in 6 (55%) patients, 3 of whom had decreases in portal venous pressure gradient (29%, 19%, 42.5%) at variceal obliteration. In 5 (45%) patients without patent paraumbilical veins, a statistically significant increase in portal venous pressure gradient between initial endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy and variceal obliteration was noted (P = 0.008). Rebleeding (single episode in all 4 patients, before obliteration in 3 patients) occurred in those with an increase in portal venous pressure gradient; all patients with portal venous pressure gradient decreases were nonbleeders. No correlation between changes in portal venous pressure gradient and time to variceal obliteration, number of sclerotherapy treatments, or rebleeding episodes was observed. Thus, an increase in portal venous pressure gradient was noted in the majority of patients at variceal obliteration. Although the portal venous pressure gradient decrease may be explained by a patent paraumbilical vein, the mechanism of portal venous pressure gradient increase is not clear. It is speculated that this portal venous pressure gradient increase may be caused by an increase in collateral resistance or flow or a combination of both, resulting from obliteration of esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy. 
Portal venous system after portosystemic shunts or endoscopic sclerotherapy: evaluation with Doppler sonography. We sought to determine the usefulness of duplex Doppler sonography in the assessment of blood flow and clot formation in the portal vein in 44 patients with portal hypertension and bleeding esophageal varices who had undergone either endoscopic sclerotherapy (28 cases) or portosystemic shunt procedures (16 cases). The main, left, and right portal veins (collectively referred to as intrahepatic portal veins), superior mesenteric vein, splenic vein, and shunt were assessed for flow direction, presence of thrombi, and collaterals. Patent shunts were visualized in 12 (75%) of the 16 cases. Clot was detected in 27 (69%) of 39 intrahepatic portal veins in patients with end-to-side shunts, in six (67%) of nine intrahepatic portal veins in patients with distal splenorenal shunts, and in five (5%) of 92 intrahepatic portal veins in patients who had had endoscopic sclerotherapy. Flow in the main portal vein was hepatopetal in two (15%) of 13 patients with patent shunts (one end-to-side portacaval shunt and one distal splenorenal shunt). Flow in the main portal vein was hepatopetal in 26 (93%) of 28 patients who had had endoscopic sclerotherapy. Our data suggest endoscopic sclerotherapy preserves antegrade portal flow and results in fewer portal vein clots than surgical portosystemic shunts do. Patterns of thrombosis and flow direction vary unpredictably from patient to patient. Shunt patency should not be inferred without direct visualization of the shunt. 
Funic reduction for the management of umbilical cord prolapse. The current management of umbilical cord prolapse centers on attempts to alleviate the pressure of the presenting part on the cord while preparation for cesarean section is being made. A 10-year experience in which there were vigorous attempts to accomplish safe vaginal delivery after the diagnosis of umbilical cord prolapse is presented. Eight cases of umbilical cord prolapse occurred, a frequency of 1 in 277 deliveries (0.37%), all of which had a normal immediate neonatal outcome. Vaginal delivery was accomplished in seven patients (87.5%); diagnosis was made in two of them when delivery was imminent. Five patients were more remote from delivery and had successful funic reduction (manual replacement of the prolapsed cord). Funic reduction is proposed as a potentially beneficial initial step in the management of umbilical cord prolapse. 
Sudden unexpected death due to papillary fibroma of the aortic valve. Report of a case and review of the literature. The case of the sudden unexpected death of a 21-year-old man due to embolization of segments of an aortic valve papillary fibroma to the left main and anterior descending coronary artery is presented. The literature regarding cardiac papillary fibroma is reviewed with particular reference to those cases associated with sudden death. 
Laser balloon angioplasty: potential for reduction of the thrombogenicity of the injured arterial wall and for local application of bioprotective materials. Mitigation of adverse biologic reactivity after balloon angioplasty is necessary before the incidence of restenosis can be appreciably reduced. A brief review of experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that the thrombogenicity of the injured arterial wall can be reduced by a suitable level of thermal denaturation or cross-linking of thrombogenic proteins. In addition, the concept of local pharmacologic therapy, which can be provided with laser balloon angioplasty at the site of arterial injury, is introduced. Preliminary in vitro and in vivo data suggest that guide catheter-injected albumin-heparin conjugates fabricated as water-insoluble microspheres remain adherent to the injured luminal surface and deeper arterial layers after physical trapping by the inflated balloon and subsequent laser/thermal exposure. The combination of initially adequate luminal morphology, reduction of the thrombogenicity of the injured arterial wall and application of local pharmacologic therapy with laser balloon angioplasty may eventually prove helpful in reducing the incidence of restenosis. 
Innominate artery occlusive disease: surgical approach and long-term results. We reviewed our experience with 54 patients who underwent innominate artery revascularization during a 10-year period. Their age range was from 16 to 75 years (mean, 49.8 years). The innominate artery alone was involved in 21 patients (39%); the remaining patients had additional arch vessel obstructions. Before operation, neurologic symptoms occurred in 25 patients (46%), arm ischemia related to claudication and microembolization occurred in 8 patients (14%), a combination of symptoms occurred in 17 patients (32%), and no symptoms were noted in 4 patients (8%). The extrathoracic approach to surgery was used in 16 patients (30%). Eleven of the 38 patients in whom the intrathoracic approach was used had endarterectomy of the innominate artery; in three of those, the procedure was combined with left common carotid endarterectomy. Bypass grafts were used in the other 27 patients undergoing procedures with an intrathoracic approach; in six of those, bypass was combined with carotid endarterectomy. No operative deaths occurred. Perioperative revascularization failure occurred in four cases; all of those patients underwent a second revascularization procedure, with a secondary patency rate of 100%. In four patients, late occlusion was noted at 6 months and at 1, 1.5, and 10 years. One patient had a permanent perioperative neurologic deficit in the distribution of the left carotid artery after a combined common carotid endarterectomy/innominate endarterectomy procedure. No neurologic deficits were directly related to the innominate artery territory. Long-term actuarial survival was 83% at 10 years. Early and late graft failures were related to inadequate inflow in bypass grafts, progression of distal disease in arteritis, and primary closure in endarterectomy. 
Idiotypic cross-reactivity of immunoglobulins expressed in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and mantle zone lymphocytes of secondary B-cell follicles. Monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) specific for autoantibody-associated cross-reactive idiotypes (CRIs) of Waldenstrom's IgM react frequently with the surface Ig (slg) expressed by leukemia cells of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Evaluation of the molecular basis for this cross-reactivity indicates that such CRIs are encoded by conserved antibody variable region genes (V genes) that have undergone little or no somatic hypermutation. We find that such anti-CRI MoAbs stain a subpopulation of cells within the mantle zones surrounding the germinal centers of normal human tonsil. In contrast, MoAbs specific for variable region subgroup determinants react with cells in both the mantle zones and germinal centers of secondary B-cell follicles. To test whether mantle zone B cells not reactive with existing anti-CRI MoAbs may express slg bearing as-yet-unrecognized CRIs present on Igs produced by neoplastic cells of some patients with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia or CLL, we immunized mice with purified Waldenstrom's IgM that have been characterized for their variable region subgroups using subgroup-specific antisera raised against synthetic peptides. The supernatants of hybridomas generated from the splenocytes of immunized mice were screened for their ability to stain a subpopulation of mantle zone lymphocytes in human tonsil. With this approach, two new anti-CRI MoAbs were identified, designated OAK1 and VOH3. OAK1 binds to a CRI present on a subset of kappa light chains of the VK1 subgroup. VOH3 recognizes a CRI determinant(s) present on a subset of antibody heavy chains of the VH3 subgroup. Flow cytometric analyses demonstrated that OAK1 specifically binds leukemia cells from 5 to 20 patients (25%) with kappa light chain expressing CLL. In addition, VOH3 reacted with the leukemia cells from 1 of 17 (6%) patients tested. The success of these methods demonstrates that the variable regions of the Igs produced by mantle zone B cells share idiotypic determinants with Igs expressed in B-cell CLL (B-CLL) and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. 
Suturing or stapling in gastrointestinal surgery: a prospective randomized study. West of Scotland and Highland Anastomosis Study Group. A prospective randomized study of 1004 patients is reported, comparing surgical stapling and manual suturing techniques in the construction of gastrointestinal anastomoses. The incidence of clinical leaks was similar between the two groups (sutured 3.2 per cent, stapled 4.7 per cent; P = 0.22), while for radiological leaks the incidence was significantly higher in the sutured group (12.2 per cent versus 4.1 per cent, P less than 0.05). Stapling instruments afforded significantly quicker anastomoses, mean(s.e.m.) 28.1(0.7) versus 14.3(0.5) min (P less than 0.001), and quicker operations, 115.5(2.4) versus 103.8(2.2) min (P less than 0.001). The two groups were found to be comparable in other respects such as operative mortality, requirements for blood transfusion, incidence of infective complications, recovery of gastrointestinal function and postoperative hospital stay. 
Hepatitis C in liver transplant recipients. HCV infection is commonly found in patients with chronic liver disease undergoing liver transplantation. However, the presence of antibody to HCV does not appear to be associated with the development of hepatitis posttransplant. No other risk factors were identified that appear to predispose patients to development of hepatitis in the posttransplant period, including amount of blood product exposure. The role of immunosuppression in the acquisition and expression of liver disease caused by HCV remains to be determined. 
Cholestasis and changes of portal pressure caused by chlorpromazine in the perfused rat liver. Chlorpromazine (10 mumol/L) causes a marked increase in portal pressure in perfused rat liver. Simultaneously, oxygen consumption, hepatic clearance of taurocholate and bile flow are diminished. These effects are prevented by the cyclooxygenase inhibitors indomethacin (15 mumol/L), acetylsalicylate (3 mmol/L) or ibuprofen (200 mumol/L). On addition of chlorpromazine the liver releases increased amounts of prostaglandin D2; this increase does not occur in the presence of indomethacin. At higher concentrations of chlorpromazine (100 mumol/L) the inhibition of taurocholate clearance and bile flow is accompanied by only a moderate increase of portal pressure, and indomethacin is without effect. At this high concentration, substantial cell damage, as indicated by the release of lactate dehydrogenase, is present. We conclude that arachidonic acid-derived metabolites, notably prostanoids, are involved in the inhibition of bile flow and of taurocholate clearance observed at low concentrations of chlorpromazine. The data suggest that changes in the microcirculation are responsible for the impairment of the liver functions. At higher concentrations of chlorpromazine the cell toxicity of the drug becomes prominent. 
Prevention of an air embolism by moderate hypoventilation during surgery in the sitting position. The effect of ventilation (normo-, hypo-, and hyperventilation) on transverse sinus pressure (TSP), central venous pressure (CVP), mean arterial blood pressure (mABP), and heart rate was studied in 15 patients undergoing neurosurgical treatment in the sitting position for tumors of the posterior fossa, and the findings were compared with the influence of positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) on these parameters. TSP was not influenced significantly by PEEP ranging from 0 to 15 mbar, whereas CVP increased. At the same time, mABP decreased slightly. In contrast, TSP showed characteristic changes with varying ventilation: during normoventilation [end expiratory CO2 pressure (PECO2), 38 mm Hg], TSP was 3 mm Hg and increased to 7 mm Hg on average with hypoventilation (PECO2, 44 mm Hg), whereas hyperventilation (PECO2, 32 mm Hg) caused a reduction in TSP to the atmospheric range. At the same time, CVP remained unchanged, whereas mABP increased with hypoventilation. Presuming that the risk of venous air embolism is closely related to the level of TSP, our results allow the following conclusions. 1) PEEP does not seem to be effective in preventing venous air embolism. 2) Hyperventilation is dangerous in the sitting position, as TSP is reduced to the atmospheric and even subatmospheric range. 3) To prevent air embolism, moderate hypoventilation is recommended during the most critical period of exposing the posterior fossa followed by normoventilation when surgery of the actual lesion has begun. 
Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency due to a 20-bp deletion in exon II of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) E1 alpha gene. A 20-bp deletion in the last exon of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) E1 alpha gene was found in a severely affected female patient diagnosed with PDH deficiency. PDH-complex activity in the patient's fibroblasts was 22% of that in normal controls. The mutation was characterized using PCR techniques with both patient cDNA and genomic DNA, followed by sequencing of the products. E1 beta cDNA sequence was found to be the same as that in controls. The deletion causes a frameshift and the occurrence of a premature stop codon. Western blot analysis revealed an extra band migrating just above the PDH E1 beta band. Northern blot analysis showed normal levels of both E1 alpha and E1 beta message when probed with the respective cDNAs. However, a larger intermediate-size transcript was observed for this patient in the E1 beta blot. The 20-bp deletion was not found in either parent's genomic DNA, and hence we conclude that the mutation must have occurred de novo, either in the germ-line cells or immediately following fertilization. 
Induction and prevention of radiocontrast-induced nephropathy in dogs with heart failure. Radiocontrast-induced nephropathy (RCIN) is a clinically important cause of acute renal failure with no effective treatment. Recognizing the high incidence of RCIN in humans with severe congestive heart failure (CHF), this study was designed to test the hypotheses that dogs with experimental CHF are at increased risk for RCIN and that pharmacologic renal levels of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) can prevent RCIN in this model. In chronic experiments, three groups of five conscious dogs received intravenous radiocontrast (7 ml/kg). One group consisted of normal controls, while the two other groups had experimental CHF induced by eight days of ventricular pacing at 250 beats per minute. One of the CHF groups received an infusion of ANF (30 ng/kg/min) into the suprarenal aorta for one hour before, during and after the infusion of radiocontrast to achieve pharmacologic renal plasma levels. Renal function remained stable in the normal controls in contrast to the consistent decreases in daily creatinine clearance during the five days following radiocontrast in experimental CHF. In addition, ANF prevented radiocontrast-induced reductions in creatinine clearance in dogs with experimental CHF. Additional studies performed in two groups of anesthetized dogs with experimental CHF demonstrated that, in this model of RCIN, the reduction in renal function appears biphasic, and the action of ANF may be to increase glomerular filtration rate prior to radiocontrast, thus allowing a maintenance of renal function during and after radiocontrast. 
MR imaging of the portal venous system: value of gradient-echo imaging as an adjunct to spin-echo imaging. We evaluated the use of gradient-echo (GRE) as an adjunct to spin-echo (SE) MR imaging of the portal venous system. GRE imaging was performed in 31 subjects, 15 normal volunteers and 16 patients with documented portal venous disease (15 cases) or suspected disease (one case). Eight of 16 patients had venous thrombosis, five had focal thrombus, and three had complete occlusion. Six patients had extrinsic venous compression by tumor. Of the two other patients, one had an arteriovenous fistula and the other a falsely positive angiogram, suggesting portal vein occlusion. In normal subjects, GRE scans had excellent visualization of the portal venous system with high intravascular signal compared with surrounding tissues. Nine (60%) of 15 normal subjects and three patients had an artifact consisting of a curvilinear area of decreased signal that could mimic clot. In three of five patients with focal thrombus, clot was identified on GRE but not on SE images. In all three patients with occlusion, SE and GRE images demonstrated similar findings. In five of the six patients with extrinsic venous compression by tumor, SE and GRE studies showed similar findings. Of the two patients, an arteriovenous fistula was seen on GRE MR in one, and in the other, patency of the left portal vein was seen on SE and GRE images after angiography had suggested portal vein occlusion. Collateral vessels were seen in nine of 16 patients. In five of nine cases, GRE MR demonstrated more extensive collaterals than did SE MR. In summary, GRE MR provides a useful adjunct to standard SE MR imaging. Benefits include high contrast between vascular structures and surrounding tissues, reduced motion artifact, and rapid scanning within a breath-hold. 
Posttraumatic stress disorder following recent-onset psychosis. An unrecognized postpsychotic syndrome. Clinical experience with psychotic patients early in the course of their illness suggested that symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may not be uncommon after recovery from an acute psychotic episode. Thirty-six patients recovering from an acute psychotic episode within 2 to 3 years of onset of their illness were assessed as inpatients and followed up on two occasions during the year after discharge. The prevalence of PTSD was found to be 46% at 4 months and 35% at 11 months, measured by a questionnaire linked to DSM-III criteria. The relationships between negative symptomatology and PTSD symptoms and between depressive symptomatology and PTSD symptoms were also examined; a significant correlation was found only for the latter. The psychopathological, preventive, and therapeutic implications of these findings are discussed, and future research strategies are proposed. 
The effect of quadriceps excision on functional results after distal femoral resection and prosthetic replacement of bone tumors. Although resection and reconstruction with a prosthesis is an accepted form of treatment for tumors of the distal femur, minimal effort has been made to correlate the functional result with the degree of adjacent muscle excision. From 1983 to 1986, 65 patients had distal femoral resection and prosthetic reconstruction. Ten patients had only the vastus intermedius excised (Group A), 30 patients had excision of the vastus intermedius plus either the vastus medialis or lateralis (Group B), nine patients had only the rectus femoris spared (Group C), and 16 patients had the entire quadriceps excised or conversion of the previous arthrodesis (Group D). Based on the rating system of the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society, satisfactory results were obtained in 70% of Group A patients (30% excellent and 40% good), with no poor results. In group B, 80% had good or excellent results and 7% poor results. In Group C, 78% of the patients had good results but no excellent results, whereas Group D had only 50% satisfactory results. The parameters that most often led to functional impairment were restricted motion and inadequate extensor powers. Muscle transfers, however, (flexors to extensors) were effective only in Group C patients. With proper technique and prosthetic design, satisfactory results can be achieved after distal femoral resection and prosthetic reconstruction, even after extensive quadriceps excision. 
Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation with Developing Countries. Prospects for public health benefits in developing countries from new vaccines against enteric infections. The symposium participants concluded that vaccines with even moderate efficacy can be highly useful to prevent large numbers of severe illness episodes and deaths and that the decision of whether to initiate a vaccine program should be based on measures or estimates of public health effectiveness rather than only on protective efficacy. Studies of protective efficacy are of course critical to establish the vaccine's biologic activity, but additional aspects of public health effectiveness are also crucial in making these decisions. First-generation vaccines are available against typhoid, cholera, and soon rotavirus diarrhea, and vaccines against enterotoxigenic E. coli diarrhea and shigellosis are under development. The problems related to enteric diseases are enormous; the vaccines may soon be produced at low cost and promise to be relatively more easy to distribute than most previous vaccines. The number of illnesses and deaths averted from vaccine programs are potentially great. Pilot programs using the new vaccines should urgently be considered in areas where the disease burden is high, and steps should be taken to monitor effectiveness of the intervention in these programs. Such studies of vaccine effectiveness and costs in a "real world" situation are an essential step of the research process and should be used to guide the organization of larger-scale programs. Finally, many of the necessary research and development activities relevant to public health vaccinology must address country-specific problems. Developing countries should consider the role of vaccine-related research among the priorities for their essential national health research and build the necessary capabilities in applied and basic medical sciences and in the social sciences. 
Determination of growth fraction in advanced prostate cancer by Ki-67 immunostaining and its relationship to the time to tumor progression after hormonal therapy. Reliable predictors of response for prostate cancer patients undergoing hormonal therapy are lacking. This study investigates the possibility that tumor proliferation rates might predict tumor behavior for these patients. The growth fraction of metastatic prostate cancer biopsy specimens obtained before androgen withdrawal therapy was evaluated by Ki-67 antibody immunohistochemical study to determine whether a higher tumor growth fraction was associated with a shorter time to tumor progression after therapy. The percentage of Ki-67-positive malignant epithelial nuclei in the primary tumors of 17 patients ranged from 1.7% to 7.5% (median, 2.5%). When patients were divided into two response groups according to the median time to progression, poor responders (time to progression less than 20 months) and good responders (greater than or equal to 20 months) had similar growth fractions (3.5 +/- 0.5% versus 3.1 +/- 0.6% Ki-67-positive nuclei, respectively). However, when patients were divided into two groups based on the median growth fraction, patients with a high growth fraction (greater than 2.5% Ki-67-positive nuclei) tended to have a shorter time to progression (median, 10 months) than patients with a low (less than 2.5%) growth fraction (median time to progression, 25 months), although statistical significance was not reached. Despite this interesting trend, Ki-67 immunostaining was not accurate to predict the time to progression in individual patients undergoing hormonal therapy. Reliable prediction of growth rates may require measurement of both cell proliferation and cell death rates. 
Donor hearts with impaired hemodynamics. Benefit of warm substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution for induction of cardioplegia during cardiac harvesting. Brain-dead donors frequently show circulatory deterioration and often require so much inotropic support that the donor heart is of questionable value. This experimental study quantifies the cardiac metabolic consequences of brain death and the role of warm blood cardioplegic solution for induction of cardioplegia to improve the quality of potential donor hearts with impaired hemodynamics. Twelve dogs were subjected to brain death by interrupting cerebral blood flow (ligation of innominate artery, carotid arteries, and superior vena cava) and were followed up for as long as 6 hours. Each showed progressive hemodynamic deterioration, necessitating inotropic support (dopamine, calcium, and epinephrine) and large amounts of volume replacement (hetastarch; Hespan) to support the circulation (maintain mean arterial blood pressure greater than 60 mm Hg). Biopsy specimens were taken after 6 hours, or when irreversible ventricular fibrillation occurred, and were analyzed for adenosine triphosphate, creatine phosphate, glycogen, glutamate, and lactate. In six dogs the aorta was then clamped, and a 10-minute infusion of warm (37 degrees C) substrate-enriched aspartate/glutamate blood cardioplegic solution (with the dog's own blood) was given by roller pump to simulate warm induction during the harvesting process. Biopsies were then repeated. Myocardial metabolism, expressed as percent of control values, during brain death was characterized by the following: (1) moderate energy depletion (adenosine triphosphate fell 25% +/- 8%, creatine phosphate fell 55% +/- 15%; p less than 0.05 versus control: mean +/- standard error of the mean); (2) substrate depletion (tissue glutamate fell 48% +/- 9.5%, glycogen fell 66% +/- 7.5%; p less than 0.05 versus control: mean +/- standard error of the mean); and (3) evidence of anaerobic metabolism (lactate increased 374% +/- 95%; p less than 0.05 versus control: mean +/- standard error of the mean). Warm induction of blood cardioplegia in these energy- and substrate-depleted ischemic hearts showed (1) return of creatine phosphate levels to normal (113% +/- 16.8%), (2) replenishment of glutamate (201% +/- 24% of control; p less than 0.05 versus control: mean +/- standard error of the mean), and (3) 43% +/- 14% reduction in myocardial lactate content; (p less than 0.05 versus brain-dead animals). These data suggest that brain-dead donors requiring inotropic support sustain energy and substrate depletion and ischemic damage that can be reversed by a brief period of induction of cardioplegia with a warm substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution before harvesting.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Hepatic perfusion index (HPI) in mesenteric angina and following successful revascularization. This is a case report of a 45 year old man who had previously undergone a small bowel resection for acute mesenteric ischaemia. He subsequently suffered from mesenteric angina due to stenosis of the origin of the superior mesenteric artery and intermittent claudication due to aorto-iliac atheroma. The patient underwent a successful aorto-bifemoral Y graft and small bowel revascularization with a saphenous vein graft between the Y graft and the accessible proximal portion of the superior mesenteric artery. Before vascular reconstruction, the hepatic perfusion indices (HPI) in both the fasted and fed states were elevated; after mesenteric revascularization the HPI values were substantially lowered. The hepatic perfusion index may, by demonstrating functional abnormality, be useful in the diagnosis of mesenteric ischaemia and also in the assessment of treatment. Further evaluation of HPI in patients with suspected mesenteric ischaemia is therefore required. 
Treatment with recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha protects rats against the lethality, hypotension, and hypothermia of gram-negative sepsis. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a peptide secreted by macrophages in response to endotoxin that can produce many of the changes seen in septic shock. After cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) rats gradually develop tachycardia, hypotension, tachypnea, and hypothermia. At 5 h post-CLP, rats have a peak in serum levels of endotoxin and 60% of rats have blood cultures that grow Gram-negative rods (Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumonia). At 20 h post-CLP all rats develop positive blood cultures. Serum levels of TNF are not reproducibly measurable in rats following CLP. Rats undergoing CLP have a 50-80% mortality with deaths usually occurring 24-72 h postinjury. Repetitive (twice daily x 6 d) i.p. injection of sublethal doses of recombinant human TNF-alpha (100 micrograms/kg) to rats undergoing CLP 1 d after the treatment period resulted in a significant reduction in mortality compared to control rats previously unexposed to rTNF (P less than 0.03). Animals treated with rTNF had no hypotension or hypothermia after CLP and regained normal food intake faster than control rats. 12 h after CLP the gene expression for manganous superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), an inducible mitochondrial metalloenzyme responsible for cellular resistance to injury from toxic reactive oxygen species, was higher in livers of rats treated with rTNF suggesting that the TNF treatment augmented expression of this protective enzyme. Unlike MnSOD, expression of the gene for copper-zinc SOD was not affected by CLP or rTNF treatment. The results suggest that prior treatment with recombinant TNF can ameliorate the lethality, hypotension, hypothermia, and anorexia of Gram-negative sepsis in rats and that the mechanism may be related to enhanced hepatic expression of the gene for MnSOD. Repeated administration of recombinant TNF may be a strategy to minimize mortality and morbidity of Gram-negative sepsis. 
Adequate crystalloid resuscitation restores but fails to maintain the active hepatocellular function following hemorrhagic shock. Studies have shown that active hepatocellular function is depressed early after trauma-hemorrhage and persists despite resuscitation with two or three times (x) the volume of maximum bleedout (MB) with lactated Ringer's solution (LR). However, it is not known if a larger volume of fluid resuscitation corrects this dysfunction. To study this, rats were bled to and maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 40 mm Hg until 40% of the MB volume was returned in the form of LR, and then resuscitated with 4x or 5x the volume of MB with LR. Three doses of indocyanine green (ICG) were given intravenously and [ICG] measured in vivo using an in-vivo hemoreflectometer. The initial velocity of the clearance of ICG was calculated. Maximal velocity of the clearance (Vmax: the number of functional ICG receptors) and kinetic constant (Km: the efficiency of the active transport) were determined from the Lineweaver-Burk plot. Vmax decreased during hemorrhage, was restored to control levels at 0-4 hours after resuscitation, but decreased at 4-8 hours after resuscitation despite restoration of cardiac output following resuscitation with 5x LR. This could be the result of increased TNF release. The Km also decreased during hemorrhage, but increased at 0-1.5 hours and remained at control levels even 4-8 hours after resuscitation. Thus the failure of Vmax to remain at control levels following adequate fluid resuscitation may form the basis of cellular dysfunction and multiple organ failure after severe hemorrhagic shock. 
Analyses of 200 lymphadenectomies in patients with penile carcinoma. From 1972 to 1987, 200 consecutive lymphadenectomies were performed in 112 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis. A Gibson incision provided exposure of the iliac and inguinal lymph nodes with a low morbidity rate (5% flap necrosis, 15% wound infection, 16% lymphedema and 9% lymphocele). The controversy surrounding the necessity of iliac lymphadenectomy is discussed, since 305 iliac lymph nodes examined did not have metastatic invasion. 
Peripheral white blood cell counts and bacterial meningitis: implications regarding diagnostic efficacy in febrile children. In order to investigate the clinical value of peripheral white blood cell variables for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis among young, febrile children, we compared total peripheral white counts, total segmented neutrophil counts, total band counts, and the ratio of immature-to-total neutrophils (I:T ratio) among 46 children with bacterial meningitis, 130 children with aseptic meningitis, and 56 febrile children with culture confirmed extrameningeal bacterial infection. Children with bacterial meningitis were comparable to those with aseptic meningitis with respect to median total white blood cell counts and median total segmented neutrophil counts but had a significantly higher median total band count (1760/microliters vs 378/microliters, P = 0.0001) and a significantly higher median I:T ratio (0.40 vs 0.09, P less than 0.001). In contrast, children with bacterial meningitis were comparable to those with an extrameningeal bacterial infection with respect to median total band count but had a significantly lower median total peripheral white count (10,650/microliters vs 15,300/microliters, P = 0.0013), a lower median total segmented neutrophil count (4511/microliters vs 6796/microliters, P = 0.023), and a significantly higher median I:T ratio (0.40 vs 0.15, P less than 0.001). Children with meningitis who were bacteremic at presentation had a significantly lower total white cell count (P = 0.001) and significantly higher I:T ratio (P = 0.005) when compared with children who had an extrameningeal infection and concurrent bacteremia at presentation. 
Pancreatic-portal vein fistula with disseminated fat necrosis treated by pancreaticoduodenectomy. I have reported the case of a 62-year-old man with chronic alcoholic pancreatitis and a rare pseudocyst-portal vein fistula. Even though he experienced no abdominal symptoms, he had severe metastatic fat necrosis manifested as subcutaneous fat necrosis, polyarthritis, medullary bone necrosis, and mental status changes. Remote tissue destruction continued until relief was gained by pancreaticoduodenectomy and repair of the necrotic portal vein. Disseminated fat necrosis is a rare syndrome that can be the only presenting feature in patients with pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. Early recognition and treatment of the underlying pancreatic disease may decrease the high morality rate associated with this syndrome. 
The use of intraaortic balloon pumping as an adjunct to reperfusion therapy in acute myocardial infarction. The Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) Study Group. To assess the risk and possible benefits of use of the percutaneous IABP in patients given thrombolytic therapy as treatment for acute myocardial infarction, we prospectively evaluated 810 consecutive patients entered into the TAMI trials. During hospitalization the 85 patients treated with the IABP had more cardiac risk factors, were slightly older (58 vs 56 years), and more often had anterior infarction (62% vs 38%). At acute cardiac catheterization, patients treated with the IABP also had more multivessel coronary disease (67% vs 43%), more frequent TIMI grade 0 or 1 flow (44% vs 28%), lower global ejection fraction (40% vs 52%), and worse regional infarct (-3.2 vs -2.5 SD/chord) and noninfarct (-0.67 vs +0.36 SD/chord) zone function. Although mortality rates (32% vs 4%) and in-hospital complications were greater in patients treated with the IABP, a greater improvement in global (delta ejection fraction: +1.9% vs +0.7%) and noninfarct zone (delta SD/chord: +0.11 vs -0.09) left ventricular function was observed in patients treated with the IABP at 1-week follow-up angiography. In addition, no reinfarction or reocclusion of the infarct-related artery occurred while patients were being treated with the IABP. These results suggest that the IABP may have a specific role after thrombolytic therapy in treating patients at high risk for reocclusion or at high risk for hemodynamic deterioration because of large infarction or critical stenoses in coronary vessels supplying the noninfarct zone. 
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy of childhood: treatment with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin. We treated four children with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). All patients received 400 mg/kg of IVIG a day for 5 days during relapses, and one patient received additional periodic infusions of 400 mg/kg. All patients showed excellent recovery of motor strength following each relapse that was treated with IVIG. Compared with plasmapheresis (which was used to treat relapses earlier), recovery of function with IVIG treatments was similar, and in two patients it was superior, to plasmapheresis. There were no side effects with IVIG treatments as compared with plasmapheresis with which two children had infection of central lines with Staphylococcus epidermidis, one had profuse bleeding from accidental extrusion of a central line, and one had multiple episodes of major venous thromboses. High-dose IVIG was a safe and effective adjunctive therapy for childhood CIDP in these four patients. 
Postoperative computed tomography three months after lumbar disc surgery. A prospective single-blind study. In a prospective single-blind study, 60 patients surgically treated for lumbar disc herniation underwent clinical examination and computed tomography preoperatively and 3 months after surgery. At follow-up (58 patients; median, 31 months; range, 21-37 months), 29 patients had an excellent outcome (51%), 20 improved (33%), and 9 were unchanged or worse (16%). Dural or radicular scar tissue was present by computed tomography in 88% of the patients, but the findings could not be correlated with the clinical outcome. Recurrent or persistent disc herniation was found in 9% of the patients. The clinical outcome of patients with abnormal computed tomography did not differ significantly from patients without this finding. A relation between facet joint degeneration and less successful clinical outcome was demonstrated. Computed tomography (without contrast) 3 months after surgery gave little information which could be correlated with the clinical outcome. Patients with an excellent outcome had all degrees of intraspinal scar tissue. 
Fragile X genotype characterized by an unstable region of DNA. DNA sequences have been located at the fragile X site by in situ hybridization and by the mapping of breakpoints in two somatic cell hybrids that were constructed to break at the fragile site. These hybrids were found to have breakpoints in a common 5-kilobase Eco RI restriction fragment. When this fragment was used as a probe on the chromosomal DNA of normal and fragile X genotype individuals, alterations in the mobility of the sequences detected by the probe were found only in fragile X genotype DNA. These sequences were of an increased size in all fragile X individuals and varied within families, indicating that the region was unstable. This probe provides a means with which to analyze fragile X pedigrees and is a diagnostic reagent for the fragile X genotype. 
Treatment of bilateral intrahepatic stones with high duct strictures through selective central hepatic resection. Bilateral intrahepatic duct stones with strictures, more common in the Orient than elsewhere, are difficult to access surgically. The results of surgical procedures have not been generally successful and are attended by a high postoperative complication and recurrence rate. We report the treatment of 30 patients with intrahepatic calculi and high duct strictures by means of selective central hepatic resection without dissection of the major vessels at the hilum. Central hepatic resection provided satisfactory access to the primary and secondary confluences of the intrahepatic ducts, allowed removal of residual stones and ascariasis, and permitted correction of multiple strictures. Twenty-nine patients so treated were followed for a mean of 32 months after operation. No patients developed recurrent fever, biliary colic, or jaundice after the operation. The technique is therefore recommended as an effective alternative to extensive hepatic lobectomy in the treatment of the intrahepatic calculi with multiple strictures. 
Carcinoma and DNA aneuploidy in Crohn's colitis--a histological and flow cytometric study. Twenty four patients with longstanding colonic Crohn's disease were examined prospectively with colonoscopy and multiple biopsy sampling in order to detect histological dysplasia or abnormal aneuploid DNA content, or both. Biopsy specimens were taken from 10 predetermined locations in the colon and rectum. No patient had definite dysplasia but three displayed DNA aneuploidy (12.5%), and one of these subsequently developed a carcinoma (Dukes' C at operation) in the ascending colon. No concomitant dysplasia was detected but the carcinoma as well as other parts of the mucosa were DNA aneuploid. It is concluded that dysplasia is rare in patients with Crohn's colitis, but findings of DNA aneuploidy warrant vigilance in follow up as this may indicate impending carcinoma. Further prospective studies are needed before the predictive value of DNA aneuploidy can be determined and before general recommendations of colonoscopic surveillance, as in longstanding ulcerative colitis, can be made. 
Neonatal schizencephaly: comparison of brain imaging. Schizencephaly is a regional disturbance of cerebral hemisphere formation occurring at 3-5 months gestation; neonatal presentation is uncommon. Three neonates with schizencephaly were evaluated with cranial ultrasonography (US), unenhanced computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations. Common findings in US, CT, and MRI include parasylvian and midline clefts, size asymmetries of the basal ganglia and thalamus, cerebral parenchymal volume loss, ventriculomegaly, ventricular diverticula, and absence of the septum pellucidum. MRI and CT were superior to US in detecting calcification, gyral and sulcal abnormalities, and parasylvian clefts. MRI alone demonstrated homolateral absence of the sylvian vasculature, small medullary pyramids, low position of the fornix, and the thinning of the corpus callosum. Although US appears adequate as a screening test, MRI best defines the precise pathoanatomic findings of neonatal schizencephaly and allows for the prediction of neurologic outcomes in affected newborns. 
Surgical treatment of peptic ulcer disease. Elective surgery for peptic ulcer disease has diminished significantly over the past 15 years. However, emergency surgery has not shown a decline. Some series have even reported an increase in hospitalizations and operations for hemorrhage. The appropriate surgical procedure for peptic ulcer disease must be tailored to the specific needs of the individual patient. During emergency operations for hemorrhage from duodenal ulcer, we recommend suture ligature of the bleeding vessel and vagotomy-pyloroplasty for high-risk patients, or vagotomy-antrectomy for the lower-risk patient. Bleeding gastric ulcers should be resected, if possible. For massive hemorrhage from stress ulceration requiring surgery, near-total or total gastrectomy should be performed. Perforated duodenal ulcers are best managed by closure and a definitive ulcer operation, such as vagotomy-pyloroplasty. Perforated gastric ulcers are best excised but may be simply closed if conditions do not favor resection. In these situations, biopsy should be performed. We recommend truncal vagotomy-antrectomy for patients presenting with obstruction. Vagotomy (truncal or proximal gastric) with drainage is an acceptable alternative in this situation. For patients with intractable ulcer disease or for those who are noncompliant, proximal gastric vagotomy is the preferred operation. However, other operations may need to be considered, depending on the specific situation. Recurrent ulceration needs appropriate work-up to determine the possible cause. Although patients with ulcer recurrence initially may be placed on medical treatment, about 50% will require reoperation. The most effective procedure for peptic ulcer disease is truncal vagotomy-antrectomy, which has a recurrence rate of less than 1%. The procedure with the least morbidity and the fewest undesirable side effects is proximal gastric vagotomy. Ulcer recurrence after proximal gastric vagotomy or truncal vagotomy-pyloroplasty is in the range of 10% to 15%. 
Interstitial delivery of dexamethasone in the brain for the reduction of peritumoral edema. Controlled-release polymers have facilitated the interstitial delivery of drugs within the central nervous system. In the present study, dexamethasone was incorporated into ethylene-vinyl acetate polymers, which were then implanted adjacent to a 9L gliosarcoma in the brain of Fischer 344 rats. The effect of interstitial delivery of dexamethasone on peritumoral edema was assessed and compared to the effect of dexamethasone delivered systemically. Eighty-five rats underwent intracranial implantation of the 9L gliosarcoma. Five days later, the animals were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups: Group 1 received intracranial implantation of controlled-release polymers containing dexamethasone; Group 2 received intraperitoneal implantation of controlled-release polymers containing dexamethasone; Group 3 received serial intraperitoneal injections of dexamethasone; and Group 4 received sham treatment. The animals were sacrificed 3 days after initiation of therapy and their brains were removed for measurement of the water content (edema) in the tumor-bearing and contralateral hemispheres. Brain and plasma samples were analyzed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography to determine the tissue and plasma concentrations of dexamethasone. Measurement of the release kinetics of dexamethasone from the ethylene-vinyl acetate polymers in an in vitro system showed that the drug was released in a controlled, tapering fashion. During the first 3 days of controlled release in vitro, 330 micrograms of a total content of 7.5 mg of dexamethasone was released into the medium. Analysis of tissue for drug levels demonstrated, however, that the interstitial delivery of this fractional amount of dexamethasone within the brain resulted in levels 19 times higher than those achieved by administering the full dose of 7.5 mg systemically over a 3-day period. Conversely, the systemic administration of dexamethasone resulted in plasma levels 16 times higher than those measured in the interstitial delivery of dexamethasone in the brain. Brain-water content determinations showed that the interstitial controlled release of the fractional amount of dexamethasone within the brain was as effective in controlling peritumoral edema as systemic administration of the full dose by serial intraperitoneal injections. The study demonstrates the following: 1) controlled-release polymeric carriers deliver biologically active dexamethasone in a sustained fashion; 2) very high concentrations of dexamethasone in brain tissue can be achieved using interstitial polymer-mediated drug delivery while minimizing plasma concentrations of this drug which are sometimes associated with serious systemic side effects; and 3) peritumoral brain edema can be effectively treated by the interstitial delivery of dexamethasone directly within the tumor bed. 
Thromboprophylaxis in patients with hip fractures: a prospective, randomized, comparative study between Org 10172 and dextran 70. A prospective, randomized, assessor-blind trial has been undertaken to compare the thromboprophylactic effect and safety of the heparinoid Org 10172 (a mixture of low molecular-weight sulfated glycosaminoglycuronides) and dextran 70 in patients operated on for hip fracture. Prestudy biostatistical calculations led to the need for 260 patients. Three hundred eight patients were randomized and 19 were excluded after randomization, the majority because of postponed surgery. Analyses were made on the 289 patients on an intention-to-treat basis, as well as on the 247 patients given correct prophylaxis. Diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis was based on bilateral ascending phlebography on postoperative days 10 through 12. The frequency of deep vein thrombosis on an intention-to-treat basis was 10% in the Org 10172 group and 30% in the dextran 70 group and, on the basis of correct prophylaxis, 12% and 31%, respectively, both differences being significant (p less than 0.001). Two-month mortality rates were equal in the groups. Three fatal pulmonary emboli were seen in the dextran group. Significantly more patients in the dextran group received postoperative transfusions; no other differences in various hemorrhagic parameters were seen. Thus it can be concluded that Org 10172 has a significantly better thromboprophylactic effect than does dextran in patients with hip fractures without significant side effects. 
Early combination of selegiline and low-dose levodopa as initial symptomatic therapy in Parkinson's disease. Experience in 26 patients receiving combined therapy for 26 months. Thirty-eight patients newly diagnosed as having Parkinson's disease (mean age, 57.3 years; mean Parkinson's disease duration, 2.7 years) in the earlier phase of the disease (mean Hoehn/Yahr stage, 2; mean motor scores, 11.4) were given selegiline (Deprenyl), 10 mg daily, and maintained on this drug alone until significant clinical worsening warranted the addition of low-dose levodopa (Sinemet, 25/100 three to four doses per day). Five of these patients were not yet receiving additional levodopa despite some worsening of motor scores. Of the 33 patients now taking combined therapy, seven have been followed up for 6 months or less. Twenty-four (92%) of the 26 patients taking combined therapy for a mean of 26 months (8.5 to 99 months) who have had Parkinson's disease for 6 years showed a dramatic improvement in their parkinsonism shortly after the addition of levodopa, with significant decreases in their rated motor scores, such improvement being maintained at their latest neurologic evaluation. Eighteen (75%) of these 24 patients responded to the combined selegiline/levodopa therapy with degrees of improvement equal to or greater than 50%, compared with their motor status at the start of combined therapy just before the addition of levodopa. This degree of "reversal" of parkinsonism on addition of levodopa (mean carbidopa/levodopa dose, 98/389 mg) was not observed in any of these same patients receiving selegiline alone for an average of 13.8 months. Four patients taking combined therapy developed mild, transient, abnormal involuntary movements, and end-of-dose pattern of response after more than 2 years of combined therapy (24.75 and 33.5 months, respectively). 
Rotavirus surveillance--United States, 1989-1990. Rotavirus infection is the most common cause of dehydrating diarrhea in children in the United States. In January 1989, CDC established a National Rotavirus Surveillance System (NRSS) to monitor national patterns in the epidemiology of rotavirus. This report summarizes findings from the NRSS from January 1989 through November 1990. 
Massive incisional hernia: abdominal wall replacement with Marlex mesh. Marlex (polypropylene) mesh was used to replace the abdominal wall in massive incisional herniation in 50 patients. Seventeen unsuccessful attempts at primary repair had previously been made on nine patients. Patient follow-up ranged from 6 to 120 months (mean = 45 months). There was minor hernia recurrence in four (8 per cent) patients. In each instance it was due to partial detachment of the peripheral fixation of the patch. Complications were: wound infection, four (8 per cent); wound seroma, two (4 per cent); wound haematoma, one (2 per cent); and wound sinus, six (12 per cent). Complications did not necessitate removal of the patch in any case. Inadequate peripheral attachment of the patch has been the only cause of hernia recurrence and should be avoidable. 
Palliation of proximal malignant biliary obstruction by endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion. For four years up to December 1987, 190 patients (median age 73 years) with proximal malignant biliary obstruction were treated by endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion. Altogether 101 had cholangiocarcinoma, 21 gall bladder carcinoma, 20 local spread of pancreatic carcinoma, and 48 metastatic malignancy. Fifty eight patients had type I, 54 type II, and 78 type III proximal biliary strictures (Bismuth classification). All patients were either unfit or unsuitable for an attempt at curative surgical resection. A single endoprosthesis was placed initially, with a further stent being placed only if relief of cholestasis was insufficient or sepsis developed in undrained segments. The combined percutaneous-endoscopic technique was used to place the endoprosthesis when appropriate, after failed endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion or for second endoprosthesis placement. Full follow up was available in 97%.Thirteen patients were still alive at the time of review and all but one had been treated within the past six months. Initial endoprosthesis insertion succeeded technically at the first attempt in 127 patients, at the second in 30, and at a combined procedure in a further 13 (cumulative total success rate 89% - type I: 93%; type II: 94%; and type III: 84%). There was adequate biliary drainage after single endoprosthesis insertion in 152 of the 170 successful placements, giving an overall successful drainage rate of 80%. Three patients had a second stent placed by combined procedure because of insufficient drainage, giving an overall successful drainage rate of 82% (155 of 190). The final overall drainage success rates were type I: 91%; type II: 83%; and type III: 73%. The early complication rates were type I: 7%; type II: 14%; and type III: 31%. 
Reactivity of proximal and distal angiographically normal and stenotic coronary segments in chronic stable angina pectoris. To assess whether vasoreactivity of significant coronary stenosis (greater than 50% intraluminal diameter reduction) and that of angiographically normal coronary segments differs in proximal and distal locations, 53 patients (40 men, 13 women, mean +/- standard deviation age 55 +/- 11 years) with chronic stable angina and angiographically documented coronary artery disease were studied. While abstaining from antianginal therapy, all 53 patients underwent coronary arteriography before and after 1 mg of intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate and 21 of the 53 also before and after 20 to 30 micrograms intracoronary ergonovine. Computerized quantitative angiography was used to assess changes in the intraluminal diameter of 126 normal coronary segments (63 proximal, 63 distal) and 43 significant coronary stenoses. Nitrates dilated proximal normal coronary segments by 7.4 +/- 1.2% and distal normal coronary segments by 15 +/- 1.7% (p less than 0.01). Significant proximal coronary stenoses dilated by 11 +/- 2.5% and distal stenoses by 23 +/- 2.8% (p less than 0.01) after nitrates. Ergonovine reduced the diameter of proximal normal coronary segments by 9.3 +/- 1.7% and that of normal distal segments by 15.5 +/- 1.4% (p less than 0.01). Proximal stenoses constricted by 11 +/- 2.2% and distal stenoses by 18.4 +/- 2.8% (p = 0.06). Analysis of segments showed that nitrates dilated 19 of 63 (30%) proximal normal segments by (greater than or equal to 10%), 31 of 63 (49%) distal (p less than 0.05) and 21 of 43 (49%) stenoses. 
Endometrial thickness after menopause: effect of hormone replacement Ultrasound (US) images of the pelvis were evaluated in 112 asymptomatic postmenopausal women to investigate the normal range of endometrial thickness (double-layer measurement) and the effect of hormone replacement on these measurements. Twenty-one patients (19%) had endometrial thickness greater than 0.8 cm. One patient, with an endometrial thickness of 2.5 cm, had endometrial carcinoma. Consideration of the known actions of estrogen and progestogen on the endometrium led the authors to believe that the clinical significance of an endometrium measuring more than 0.8 cm depends on the patient's hormonal status. Among asymptomatic postmenopausal women with an endometrial thickness between 0.8 and 1.5 cm, those receiving unopposed estrogen or continuous estrogen and progestogen need to undergo dilatation and curettage (D&C) or biopsy and those receiving no hormones or receiving sequential estrogen and progestogen should be encouraged to undergo D&C or biopsy. If a patient in one of the latter two groups is unwilling to undergo an invasive procedure, then US examination at 3-month intervals is acceptable. Any patient with endometrial thickness of at least 1.5 cm should undergo histologic diagnosis, regardless of symptoms or hormone status. 
Lineage-restricted clonality in biphasic solid tumors. Cytogenetic analysis of two pulmonary chondroid hamartomas and nine breast adenofibromas revealed clonal chromosome aberrations in both hamartomas and in four breast tumors. To determine lineage of the cells with chromosome aberrations, a combined immunohistochemical/cytogenetic approach was developed that enabled simultaneous ascertainment of cytogenetic aberrations and immunohistochemical features in individual cells. Immunohistochemical/cytogenetic evaluation of one hamartoma and two adenofibromas demonstrated that neoplastic proliferation, in each case, was confined to the mesenchymal (stromal) component, whereas epithelial cells appeared to be reactive. Cytogenetically abnormal short-term cultures of the remaining hamartoma and another of the breast adenofibromas were composed entirely of mesenchymal elements, indicating mesenchymal clonality in those tumors as well. Our findings support redesignation of pulmonary chondroid hamartomas as 'pulmonary chondromas' and suggest that carcinomas developing within fibroadenomas arise from reactive epithelial proliferation. Combined immunohistochemical/cytogenetic analysis might be useful in the development of novel therapeutic approaches that selectively target neoplastic populations within solid tumors. 
Intravascular streaming during carotid artery infusions. Demonstration in humans and reduction using diastole-phased pulsatile administration. Intra-arterial carotid artery chemotherapy for malignant gliomas is limited by focal injuries to the eye and brain which may be caused by poor mixing of the drug with blood at the infusion site. This inadequate mixing can be eliminated in animal models with diastole-phased pulsatile infusion (DPPI) which creates 1-ml/sec spurts during the slow blood flow phase of diastole. Before treatment with intracarotid cisplatin, 10 patients with malignant gliomas were studied to determine whether intravascular streaming occurs after intracarotid infusion in humans, and if so, if it is reduced with DPPI. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) studies were performed by intravenous injection of H2(15)O and positron emission tomography. This was followed by supra- or infraophthalmic internal carotid artery (ICA) injections of H2(15)O with either continuous infusion or DPPI. Local H2(15)O concentration in the brain was determined and the images of radiotracer distribution in the continuous infusion and DPPI studies were compared to the rCBF images. Intravascular streaming of the infusate was identified by a heterogeneous distribution of the infused H2(15)O in brain compared to rCBF. Extensive and variable intravascular streaming occurred in three patients who received infusions into the supraophthalmic segment of the ICA. Some brain areas received up to 11 times the expected radiotracer delivery, while other regions received as little as one-tenth. This streaming pattern was markedly reduced or eliminated by DPPI. In the five patients who received infraophthalmic infusions, a minimally heterogeneous distribution of the infusate was detected. The authors conclude that extensive intravascular streaming accompanies supraophthalmic ICA infusions in patients. The magnitude of streaming can be substantially reduced or eliminated with DPPI. Those who perform intra-arterial infusion should consider using DPPI to assure uniform drug delivery to brain. 
Experimental superficial siderosis of the central nervous system. I. Morphological observations. Autologous washed red blood cells were injected weekly over a period of three to six months into the cisterna magna of adult New Zealand white rabbits. After three months, the surface of the brain stem, cerebellum, and piriform cortex showed a distinct brown color, and staining of the gross specimens for iron produced an intense blue color which extended for a distance of 1-2 mm into the brain parenchyma. Enhanced iron stains of vibratome sections revealed the accumulation of reaction product in microglia and Bergmann glia of the cerebellar cortex, and in microglia and astrocytes of the piriform cortex. Ferritin immunocytochemistry revealed reaction product in cerebellar microglia and Bergmann glia which strongly resembled that obtained by the enhanced iron stain. In the piriform cortex, only microglia were reactive with anti-ferritin. Electron microscopy confirmed the accumulation of electron-dense ferritin granules only in the cytoplasm of microglia. Bergmann glia in the cerebellum and astrocytic processes in the piriform cortex were replete with intermediate filaments and contained an excess of glycogen. After six months, small granules of hemosiderin began to appear in cerebellar and piriform cortices. The observations support that the sequence of conversion of hemoglobin to ferritin and hemosiderin occurs in brain as in other organs. 
Esophageal obstruction 14 years after treatment for Hodgkin's disease. The incidence of late radiation injury of the esophagus is not precisely determined but, overall, the occurrence of clinically apparent damage is infrequent. The authors report a complete esophageal obstruction in a 21-year-old man, 14 years after chemo-radiation therapy for Hodgkin's lymphoma. Although endoscopy failed to demonstrate a gross morphologic abnormality, an esophagogram detected abnormal peristalsis and stricture, and esophageal manometry coupled with dynamic isotopic study clearly demonstrated a multilevel secondary neuronal damage. Data in the literature suggest that alteration in motility is by far the most frequent radiologic manifestation. Further prospective studies will probably clarify the actual incidence of late esophageal damage after chemo-radiation therapy. 
Renal lesion characterization with gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging: efficacy and safety in patients with renal insufficiency. Five patients with renal insufficiency were studied with T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging before and after intravenous administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine (0.1 mmol/kg) to characterize renal lesions that were detected with nonenhanced computed tomography (CT) and were considered indeterminate. Four patients demonstrated renal lesions that enhanced after gadolinium administration. A total of five lesions in these four patients were surgically resected and found to be renal cell carcinoma at pathologic examination. The fifth patient was spared surgery because a hyperattenuated lesion noted at nonenhanced CT did not enhance with intravenous gadolinium, indicating a benign cyst. Five incidentally occurring benign cysts removed at the time of nephrectomy in two of the patients did not demonstrate enhancement with gadolinium on MR images. Serial serum creatine levels were obtained before and after gadolinium administration in all patients; no changes were noted after gadolinium administration. Gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging is an effective method for characterizing renal lesions in patients with renal insufficiency. At the usual dosage, there appears to be no nephrotoxic reaction in these patients. 
Malignant colorectal polyps: venous invasion and successful treatment by endoscopic polypectomy. We reviewed the pathology of 81 malignant colorectal polyps in 80 patients treated by endoscopic polypectomy and assessed the importance of carcinomatous invasion of veins in the stalk (submucosa). All the patients were followed up for at least five years. Venous invasion was present in 30 of the polyps (37%). The histological features of lymphatic invasion were considered too subjective to be of value. Most of the tumours were well or moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas, one was poorly differentiated, and one was a signet ring cell carcinoma. Seventy one patients were treated by polypectomy alone, and 58 of these were alive and well five years later, with no evidence of recurrence. Nine died of unrelated causes within five years, but four died of carcinomatosis: one with recurrent tumour, one with a possible metachronous caecal cancer, and in two patients there was late development of malignancy of uncertain nature. The remaining nine patients underwent surgical resection after initial endoscopic polypectomy because of incompleteness of excision, poor differentiation of the tumour, or a decision by the surgeon. Tumour was not present in the resection specimens apart from a single lymph node deposit in the patient with signet ring cell carcinoma. These nine patients were alive and well without evidence of recurrence five years later. The results reemphasise the necessity of good cooperation between endoscopist and pathologist, meticulous laboratory technique, strict histopathological criteria including examination of resection margins and degree of differentiation of the tumour, and regular endoscopic follow up. 
Cachexia and tumour necrosis factor-alpha in cytomegalovirus infection. Although cachexia is a common feature of cytomegalovirus infection, little is known about its cause. To explore any contributory role that tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) might have the serum concentrations of TNF in eight patients who developed CMV disease after liver transplantation were investigated. All patients exhibited pronounced and long lasting increases in TNF serum concentrations. Increased endogenous TNF concentrations were associated with weight loss and anorexia. In contrast, liver transplant recipients without CMV disease showed no weight loss. 
Transesophageal echocardiographic demonstration of distinct mechanisms for right to left shunting across a patent foramen ovale in the absence of pulmonary hypertension. The optimal visualization of the atrial septum and fossa ovalis by transesophageal echocardiography was utilized to demonstrate saline contrast transit across the atrial septum and to relate it to the motion of the flap valve (septum primum) of the fossa ovalis. In three cases, three distinct mechanisms of right to left interatrial shunting in the absence of right ventricular systolic hypertension were identified: 1) transient spontaneous reversal of the left to right atrial pressure differential with each cardiac cycle; 2) sustained elevation of right atrial pressure above left atrial pressure induced by respiratory maneuvers; and 3) aberrant flow redirection across the foramen ovale due to a large right atrial mass. Any of these three mechanisms may be operative during paradoxic embolism in the absence of elevation of right ventricular pressures. 
Scopolamine patch reduces postoperative emesis in paediatric patients following strabismus surgery. Scopolamine patch was evaluated for the prevention of postoperative emesis in 50 children undergoing strabismus surgery. All subjects were premedicated, with none receiving narcotic premedicants. Anaesthesia included controlled ventilation with the use of muscle relaxants, atropine, and halothane. Before operation, the subjects were randomly assigned to one of two groups: a treatment group received a scopolamine patch at a dose of either 0.75 mg or 0.375 mg, and a control group received no patch. Both the incidence and frequency of vomiting in the scopolamine-treated group were significantly (P less than 0.05) lower than in the control group. 
Enhanced immunoglobulin levels correlate with infectious complications after surgery in esophageal cancer. Severe septic complications account for the high mortality of patients with esophageal cancer. We examined the levels of immunoglobulins and complements together with infection-related complications in a large number of patients. Enhancements of IgG, IgA, C3, C4, and CH50 were evident in patients with esophageal cancer and were more predominant compared to findings in cases of gastric cancer. Average levels of IgG and IgA immediately before surgery were significantly higher in esophageal cancer patients with postoperative septic complications than in those without such problems. Preoperative radiation therapy and total parenteral nutrition did not significantly alter the levels of immunoglobulins and complements. It would thus appear that the enhancement of IgG and IgA is associated with the occurrence of infectious complications following surgery for patients with esophageal cancer. 
Exercise endurance and arterial desaturation in normobaric hypoxia with increased chemosensitivity. We studied whether exercise endurance under normobaric hypoxia can be enhanced by increasing hypoxic ventilatory sensitivity with almitrine bismesylate (ALM). On both ALM and placebo (PL) days, resting subjects breathed a hypoxic gas mixture (an inspired O2 fraction of 10.4-13.2%), which lowered resting arterial O2 saturation (SaO2) to 80%. After 15 min of rest there was a 3-min warm-up period of exercise at 50 W (light) on a cycle ergometer, followed by a step increase in load to 60% of the previously determined maximum power output with room-air breathing (moderate), which was maintained until exhaustion. With PL, SaO2 decreased rapidly with the onset of exercise and continued to fall slowly during moderate exercise, averaging 71.0 +/- 1.8% (SE) at exhaustion. With ALM, saturation did not differ from PL during air breathing but significantly exceeded SaO2 with PL, by 3.4% during resting hypoxia, by 4.0% at the start of exercise, and by 5.9% at exhaustion. Ventilation was not affected by ALM during air breathing and was slightly, although not significantly, increased during hypoxic rest and exercise. ALM was associated with an increased heart rate during room air breathing but not during hypoxia. Endurance time was 20.6 +/- 1.6 min with ALM and 21.3 +/- 0.9 min with PL. During hypoxic exercise, the potential benefit of greater saturation with ALM is apparently offset by other unidentified factors. 
Endoscopic sphincterotomy complications and their management: an attempt at consensus. Despite its relative safety (in comparison with surgery), and undoubted role in many clinical circumstances, biliary sphincterotomy is the most dangerous procedure routinely performed by endoscopists. Complications occur in about 10% of patients; 2 to 3% have a prolonged hospital stay, with a risk of dying. This document is an attempt to provide guidelines for prevention and management of complications, based on a workshop of selected experts, and a comprehensive review of the literature. We emphasize particularly the importance of specialist training, disinfection, drainage, and collaboration with surgical colleagues. 
Athletic participation after myocardial revascularization. Possibilities and benefits. Exercise after open heart operation is not only possible but highly desirable. Training increases the efficiency of exercise and therefore decreases myocardial work for any given level of activity. Even before sternal and incisional healing is complete the patient may become physically active. Almost every patient can improve his or her level of fitness safely by following simple guidelines. Exercise treadmill testing is the basis for assessing exercise capacity in cardiac patients. Upper-body exercise is not adequately emphasized in most exercise programs. 
Roles of muscularis mucosae and myofibroblasts in the healing process of acetic acid-induced ulcer. The changes in the localization of FITC-phalloidin-positive smooth muscle cells and interstitial cells were studied in control and acetic acid-treated rat fundic mucosa. In the control rats, the FITC-phalloidin-positive cells mostly corresponded to the smooth muscle cells of the muscularis mucosae, and the arteriolar and venular smooth muscle cells. On the other hand, 1 week after the acetic acid treatment, the fluorescence of the smooth muscle cells of the muscularis mucosae disappeared and a large number of fluorescent interstitial cells, probably corresponding to myofibroblasts, appeared in the regenerated mucosal layer. Three weeks after the application, severely thickened fluorescent muscularis mucosae were formed and the fluorescence of the interstitial cells was rather decreased. 
Infection of inbred rat strains with Rift Valley fever virus: development of a congenic resistant strain and observations on age-dependence of resistance. A congenic rat strain (WF.LEW) was derived from the susceptible Wistar-Furth (WF) (background strain) and the resistant LEW (donor strain) inbred strains and was used to evaluate the phenotypic expression of a dominant Mendelian gene that confers resistance to fatal hepatic disease caused by the ZH501 strain of Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV). Resistance to hepatic disease developed gradually with age, with full expression at approximately 10 weeks in the WF.LEW and LEW rat strains. The ZH501 strain caused fatal hepatitis in WF rats regardless of age. However, resistance to the SA75 RVFV strain (relatively non-pathogenic for adult rats), was age- and dose-dependent in both WF and LEW rats. The resistance gene transferred to the newly derived WF.LEW congenic rat strain appears to amplify age-dependent resistance of adult rats, resulting in protection against fatal hepatic disease caused by the virulent ZH501 strain. The congenic rat strain will be a valuable asset in elucidating the mechanism of resistance to Rift Valley fever virus governed by the dominant Mendelian gene. 
Diagnosis of cysticercosis in endemic regions. The Cysticercosis Working Group in Peru. Taenia solium cysticercosis is a frequent cause of neurological disease in developing countries. Specific diagnosis of cysticercosis is difficult. We obtained serum and/or CSF samples from 204 consecutive patients admitted to a neurological ward in Lima, Peru, and looked for antibodies specific for T solium with the enzyme-linked immunoelectrotransfer blot (EITB) assay. 21 (12%) of 173 serum samples from these patients were EITB-positive. In contrast, only 2 (1.5%) of 135 patients attending a public endoscopy clinic and 1 (1%) of 88 patients attending a private endoscopy clinic were seropositive. 1 (1%) of 98 pregnant women living in a Lima shanty town was EITB-positive. 15 (58%) of 26 neurology patients diagnosed clinically as having cysticercosis were seronegative. Routine screening by EITB of all patients with neurological symptoms from areas of endemic cysticercosis would avoid misdiagnosis of this common and treatable disease. 
Function of the diabetic retina after panretinal argon laser photocoagulation. Influence of the intensity of the coagulation spots. To investigate the influence of the intensity of coagulation spots on retinal function and the clinical course after panretinal argon laser photocoagulation in diabetic retinopathy, we conducted a prospective study in 24 eyes of 12 diabetics. One eye was treated with moderate spots (average: 300 mW), the fellow eye was coagulated with intense spots (average: 600 mW). The spot size was identical in both eyes. Subjective parameters (visual acuity, perimetry), as well as objective functions (ERG, EOG) and the clinical course, were studied preoperatively and on a regular base with a follow-up of 12 months. Visual acuity and fundus findings deteriorated less often in eyes coagulated with intense spots. Visual field loss, however, was more prevalent in eyes treated with intense spots. Early treatment complications only occurred with high-energy coagulation. For this reason, high-energy spots should not be used even though they might be indicated theoretically. 
Association of a precore genomic variant of hepatitis B virus with fulminant hepatitis. A variant of hepatitis B virus has been described recently in HBsAg+ Mediterranean patients who lack HBeAg and who have an unusual and severe form of chronic hepatitis. This variant is unable to produce HBeAg because of the presence of a novel translational stop codon at the end of the precore region of the genome. By direct sequencing of DNA, generated by the polymerase chain reaction, we have evaluated the association between infection with this variant and the fulminant course of hepatitis B. Eighteen patients with fulminant hepatitis B were studied. Of the 15 cases from whose serum viral DNA could be sequenced, the variant was found in the admission sera of 8 of 9 HBeAg- patients but in none of 6 HBeAg+ patients who had fulminant hepatitis B. Patients harboring the variant progressed more rapidly into hepatic encephalopathy, but those infected with the variant strain alone had a greater likelihood of survival than those infected with the normal strain or a mixture. The mutant strain may emerge spontaneously during fulminant hepatitis as occurs in chronic hepatitis B infection during seroconversion from HBeAg to antibody. Alternately, and perhaps less commonly, patients may be infected with the variant ab initio. 
Infectious and inflammatory processes of the spine. Infectious and inflammatory processes of the spinal column are discussed, including disc space infection, osteomyelitis, epidural abscess, arachnoiditis, and rheumatoid arthritis. The relative sensitivity and specificity of various imaging modalities, as well as the imaging characteristics and utility of these various modalities are given. Emphasis is placed on the use of magnetic resonance imaging. 
Intrathoracic osteosarcoma diagnosed by CT scan and pleural biopsy. Osteosarcoma rarely presents as a primary lesion in the chest, whereas pulmonary metastases are common. The diagnosis of primary intrathoracic osteosarcoma has invariably been by thoracotomy or autopsy. We present a case of a densely calcified, primary intrathoracic osteosarcoma where diagnosis was made antemortem by pleural biopsies and computed tomography scan. 
Diffuse mesangial sclerosis in a fetus. An 18-week fetus was born following termination of pregnancy by prostaglandin induction. Pregnancy was terminated because of elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein and ultrasonographic evidence of severe oligohydramnios, intrauterine growth retardation, non-visualization of the bladder, dolichocephaly and possible mild hydrocephalus. Pathologic examination disclosed diffuse mesangial sclerosis and histologic evidence of the nephrotic syndrome. To our knowledge this is the first reported example of ante-natal diffuse mesangial sclerosis; of fetal congenital nephrosis other than Finnish type; and of fetal congenital nephrosis with prominent glomerular lesions. 
The zinc-reversible antimicrobial activity of neutrophil lysates and abscess fluid supernatants. There is some evidence to suggest that microbial growth inhibition may occur in chronic abscesses. A substance perhaps responsible for this phenomenon is calprotectin, a neutrophil cytoplasmic protein that inhibits microbial growth and that belongs to a class of proteins often having specific binding sites for zinc. In the present study, the suppressive effects of either human or mouse neutrophil lysates on Candida albicans growth were found to be completely reversed by micromolar quantities of zinc but not by iron or other trace elements. Similarly, supernatants of exudates from experimental abscesses in mice or from clinical specimens of abscesses in humans markedly inhibited the proliferation of C. albicans, and this effect was also completely reversed by zinc. A protein complex characteristic of calprotectin was identified in the abscess fluids. Preparations of the neutrophil growth-inhibiting protein, containing predominantly calprotectin, were shown to have zinc-binding activity by a dialysis technique. These findings suggest that the major mechanism of C. albicans growth inhibition by abscess fluids is through competition for zinc by a cytoplasmic protein apparently released from dying neutrophils. 
Acute atraumatic subdural hematoma associated with moyamoya disease in an African-American. A 57-year-old black woman with an atraumatic subdural hematoma was treated for congestive heart failure and was found to have moyamoya disease. The association of these two lesions is rare and has never been described in an African-American. High cerebral venous pressures and changes in cerebral perfusion caused by congestive heart failure and the loss of cerebrovascular autoregulation in moyamoya disease may explain the spontaneous occurrence of a subdural hematoma. Recommendations for management are discussed. 
Management of radionecrosis of the vulva and distal vagina. Twelve patients were seen between January 1983 and June 1989 with the clinical diagnosis of radionecrosis of the vulva or distal vagina. Seven patients received radiation for vulvar cancer, three for distal vaginal cancer, and two for recurrent endometrial cancer. No patient healed spontaneously and the mean delay in surgical therapy was 8.5 months. The radionecrotic site was treated with local therapy, radical local excision (with or without colostomy), or exenteration. The operative defect was closed primarily in three patients and covered with local flaps or myocutaneous flaps in seven patients. The two patients with local care still have radionecrotic ulcers. One of three patients who were closed primarily continues to have an ulcer. All other patients have healed satisfactorily except one who died after two attempts to correct the problem. Radionecrosis of the vulva and distal vagina should generally be treated surgically. 
Primary resection and anastomosis in obstructed descending colon due to cancer. Intraoperative colonic irrigation followed by one-stage resection is gaining popularity as the optimal surgical treatment for left-sided colonic obstruction. However, its efficacy and potential hazards have not been adequately tested in obstruction due to colonic cancer. We analyzed the early results of 23 consecutive patients with obstructive left-sided colonic carcinoma treated by primary resection and anastomosis following intraoperative antegrade colonic lavage. Two patients (8.6%) died, one from complication of anastomotic leakage. The significant postoperative complications were chest infection in three (13%) and wound infection in seven (30.4%). The average hospital stay was 16.5 days. The results of this study suggest that intraoperative bowel irrigation permits one-stage resection and anastomosis to be conducted with reasonable safety provided care is taken in operative techniques. 
Phacoemulsification combined with pars plana vitrectomy. Phacoemulsification combined with pars plana vitrectomy was performed on seven patients with both cataracts and vitreoretinal disease. Six of the seven had a posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC-IOL) placed in the capsular bag following cataract extraction. Visual acuities ranging from light perception to hand movement preoperatively, postoperatively ranged from hand movement to 20/25. There were no perioperative complications. During an average follow-up of more than 6 months, neovascular glaucoma developed in one patient, and a conjunctival cyst in another. The PC-IOLs were well tolerated. The small limbal incision used in phacoemulsification allows better control during the vitrectomy procedure and ensures a water-tight wound. In addition, with the limbal approach, the posterior lens capsule is maintained, with all the attendant advantages. 
A phase I trial of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta alone and in combination with myelosuppressive doses of 5-fluorouracil in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. We studied escalating doses of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) alone and after a myelosuppressive dose of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. Transient neutropenia, monocytopenia, and lymphocytopenia were observed followed by a 1.3- to 6.0-fold (mean, 3.46-fold) dose-dependent neutrophil leukocytosis (P less than .00001) on the days of IL-1 beta administration. Increases in platelet counts were observed at a median of 14 days (range, 6 to 23) after IL-1 beta administration. Transient hypoglycemia, rebound hyperglycemia, elevations in serum cortisol, and C-reactive protein were observed. Side effects included fever, rigors, and headache in the majority of patients. Hypotension was observed in three of five patients at the highest dose level (0.1 micrograms/kg) and was dose-limiting. Fewer days of neutropenia were noted after 5-FU plus IL-1 beta than after 5-FU alone; however, this difference did not reach statistical significance. These data show that IL-1 beta has stimulatory effects in human hematopoiesis. 
Localization of the gene encoding the GABAA receptor beta 3 subunit to the Angelman/Prader-Willi region of human chromosome 15. Deletions of the proximal long arm of chromosome 15 (bands 15q11q13) are found in the majority of patients with two distinct genetic disorders, Angelman syndrome (AS) and Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). The deleted regions in the two syndromes, defined cytogenetically and by using cloned DNA probes, are similar. However, deletions in AS occur on the maternally inherited chromosome 15, and deletions in PWS occur on the paternally derived chromosome 15. This observation has led to the suggestion that one or more genes in this region show differential expression dependent on parental origin (genetic imprinting). No genes of known function have previously been mapped to this region. We show here that the gene encoding the GABAA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) receptor beta 3 subunit maps to the AS/PWS region. Deletion of this gene (GABRB3) was found in AS and PWS patients with interstitial cytogenetic deletions. Evidence of beta 3 gene deletion was also found in an AS patient with an unbalanced 13;15 translocation but not in a PWS patient with an unbalanced 9;15 translocation. The localization of this receptor gene to the AS/PWS region suggests a possible role of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in the pathogenesis of one or both of these syndromes. 
Sleep apnea in patients with acute myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE: To document sleep apnea in the acute phase of myocardial infarction. If apnea occurs in patients with myocardial infarction, hypoxemia induced by apnea might exaggerate insufficiency of oxygen supplied to the damaged myocardium. DESIGN: Prospective controlled study. SETTING: Critical care unit of a teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Forty-nine patients, average age 64 yrs (range 49 to 91). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patient measurements were recorded on a polygraph using an apnea-monitor, pulse oximeter, pulmonary artery pressure monitor, and an ECG. All of the patients observed showed frequent apneic episodes. The apnea was especially frequent when the cardiac index was low. Capillary oxygen saturation of less than 90% (suggesting systemic hypoxia) was observed in 21 patients concomitantly with apnea. Occasionally, arrhythmias followed these episodes (premature supraventricular contractions [n = 10], premature ventricular contraction [n = 4], and ventricular tachycardia [n = 2]). CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that sleep apnea is common in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. It may be a factor predisposing to, or even causing, sudden death in patients with acute phase of myocardial infarction. 
Choanal atresia and lymphedema. The coexistence of bilateral bony choanal atresia and lower-extremity lymphedema was observed in a family with several consanguineous marriages. The combination of these two rare anomalies, in a hereditary form, has not been described before. 
Clinical overview of management of chronic ischemic heart disease. The outcome of patients with chronic coronary artery disease is dependent on many factors; the most important ones include the severity and extent of coronary artery disease, state of left ventricular function at rest, extent and severity of myocardial ischemia, and the total amount of left ventricular myocardium that is at risk. To use noninvasive tests optimally, the clinician first must define the information needed. The sensitivity, specificity, and predictive accuracy of the test(s) in providing the necessary information, the additive value of the result of a test to the information already available, and the best combination of tests in providing the desired information help determine the choice of various noninvasive tests in a particular clinical circumstance. 
A regional prospective study of in-hospital mortality associated with coronary artery bypass grafting. The Northern New England Cardiovascular Disease Study Group. OBJECTIVE--A prospective regional study was conducted to determine if the observed differences in in-hospital mortality rates associated with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) are solely the result of differences in patient case mix. DESIGN-Regional prospective cohort study. Data including patient demographic and historical data, body surface area, cardiac catheterization results, priority of surgery, comorbidity, and status at hospital discharge were collected. This study presents data for 3055 CABG patients between July 1, 1987, and April 15, 1989. SETTING--This study includes data from all surgeons performing cardiothoracic surgery in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont; the data were collected from five regional medical centers. PATIENTS--Data were collected from all consecutive isolated CABG surgery patients during the study period. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Crude and adjusted in-hospital mortality rates associated with CABG. MAIN RESULTS--The overall crude in-hospital mortality rate for isolated CABG was 4.3%. The rate varied among centers (range, 3.1% to 6.3%) and among surgeons (range, 1.9% to 9.2%). Predictors of in-hospital mortality included increased age, female gender, small body surface area, greater comorbidity, reoperation, poorer cardiac function as indicated by a lower ejection fraction, increased left ventricular end diastolic pressure and emergent or urgent surgery. After adjusting for the effects of potentially confounding variables, substantial and statistically significant variability was observed among medical centers (P = .021) and among surgeons (P = .025). CONCLUSION--We conclude that the observed differences in in-hospital mortality rates among institutions and among surgeons in northern New England are not solely the result of differences in case mix as described by these variables and may reflect differences in currently unknown aspects of patient care. Understanding this variation requires a detailed understanding of the processes of care. 
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibits 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-stimulated bone Gla protein synthesis in rat osteosarcoma cells (ROS 17/2.8) by a pretranslational mechanism. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), a 17,000 mol wt protein, mediates a variety of immunological and inflammatory events. TNF alpha is a potent inhibitor of bone collagen synthesis and stimulator of osteoclastic bone resorption, the net effect of which is to cause bone loss. We have previously reported that TNF alpha inhibits the synthesis of collagen by osteoblastic cells in culture out of proportion to effects on total protein synthesis, suggesting that inhibition of bone formation by TNF alpha may be due to selective inhibition of matrix protein synthesis. To further test this hypothesis and to evaluate the mechanism of TNF alpha action, we studied the effect of TNF alpha on synthesis of the osteoblast-specific bone Gla protein (BGP) by ROS 17/2.8 cells, which have the osteoblast phenotype. Cells were cultured with 10 nM 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 to stimulate BGP secretion, followed by the addition of TNF alpha (1-100 ng/ml) in 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-containing medium. TNF alpha (10 ng/ml) inhibited BGP secretion to 42 +/- 5%, 19 +/- 10%, and 15 +/- 3% of control values after 24, 48, and 72 h of treatment. After 48 h, inhibition of BGP secretion was observed with 2 ng/ml TNF alpha and was maximum with 100 ng/ml. To determine the effect of TNF alpha on total protein synthesis, cells were pulse labeled with [14C]leucine during the last 4 h of TNF alpha treatment, and incorporation of radioactivity into trichloroacetic acid-precipitable protein in cell layer and medium was determined. The TNF alpha inhibition of BGP secretion was independent of changes in [14C]leucine incorporation, suggesting that TNF alpha did not have a general inhibitory effect on total protein synthesis. Cell number was not affected by TNF alpha. Northern analysis of steady state BGP mRNA revealed a dose-dependent decrease in the BGP/cyclophilin mRNA hybridization signal intensity after 24 h of treatment. The maximum inhibitory effect was 41 +/- 5% of the control value with 100 ng/ml TNF alpha. The effect of TNF alpha on steady state BGP mRNA levels was not prevented by treatment of cells with cycloheximide, suggesting that TNF-induced new protein synthesis was not required for TNF alpha action. These results suggest that the mechanism of TNF alpha inhibition of BGP synthesis includes a pretranslational site and support the hypothesis that TNF alpha inhibits bone formation by a selective inhibition of matrix protein production. 
C4A deficiency and poor prognosis in patients with IgA nephropathy. IgA nephropathy (Berger's disease) is an important cause of end-stage renal failure in persons of Asian and European descent. We performed C4 phenotyping on plasma from 123 patients with IgA nephropathy who resided in several different parts of the United States. All of these patients underwent diagnostic renal biopsy in adulthood. Six patients had a total deficiency for the C4A protein and all six had chronic renal insufficiency (serum creatinine concentration higher than 1.4 mg/dl at last follow-up). In contrast, 47% of the patients without C4A deficiency had chronic renal insufficiency (p = 0.001). The C4 gene defect was due to deletion of both C4A genes in only two individuals, whereas three patients were heterozygous for the C4A gene deletion. We speculate that the functional alteration of the complement system related to C4A deficiency might lead to expression of clinically severe disease in an individual with a genetic susceptibility to IgA nephropathy. 
A comparative immunohistochemical study of Kuru and senile plaques with a special reference to glial reactions at various stages of amyloid plaque formation. The authors examined 10 patients with Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and 10 with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Immunohistochemistry using anti-prion protein (PrP) and anti-beta/A4 protein (beta/A4) coupled with formic acid pretreatment could detect Congophilic and non-Congophilic deposits. Prion protein deposits were classified into five types and compared with types of beta/A4 deposits. Kuru plaques with multicentric cores and fine granular deposits were a characteristic feature of PrP deposits. Some types of PrP or beta/A4 deposits depend on the anatomic sites. To clarify the relationship of microglia and astrocytes to PrP or beta/A4 deposits, double-immunostaining method was performed. In both kuru and senile plaques, microglia were closely linked to the Congophilic plaques. Astrocytes, however, extended their processes toward the plaques even in the non-Congophilic plaques. These observations strongly suggest that similar glial association with plaque formation may be involved in both kuru and senile plaques, although the amyloid core proteins differ. 
Determinant selection in murine experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Effect of the bm12 mutation on T cell recognition of acetylcholine receptor epitopes. C57BL/6 (B6) mice respond to immunization with acetylcholine receptor (AChR) from Torpedo californica as measured by T cell proliferation, antibody production, and the development of muscle weakness resembling human myasthenia gravis. The congenic strain B6.C-H-2bm12 (bm12), which differs from B6 by three amino acid substitutions in the beta-chain of the MHC class II molecule I-A, develops a T cell proliferative response but does not produce antibody or develop muscle weakness. By examining the fine specificity of the B6 and bm12 T cell responses to AChR by using T cell clones and synthetic AChR peptides, we found key differences between the two strains in T cell epitope recognition. B6 T cells responded predominantly to the peptide representing alpha-subunit residues 146-162; this response was cross-reactive at the clonal level to peptide 111-126. Based on the sequence homology between these peptides and the T cell response to a set of truncated peptides, the major B6 T cell epitope was determined to be residues 148-152. The cross-reactivity of peptides 146-162 and 111-126 could also be demonstrated in vivo. Immunization of B6 mice with either peptide primed for T cell responses to both peptides. In contrast, immunization of bm12 mice with peptide 111-126 primed for an anti-peptide response, which did not cross-react with 146-162. Peptide-reactive T cells were not elicited after immunization of bm12 mice with 146-162. These results define a major T cell fine specificity in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-susceptible B6 mice to be directed at alpha-subunit residues 148-152. T cells from disease-resistant bm12 mice fail to recognize this epitope but do recognize other portions of AChR. We postulate that alpha-148-152 is a disease-related epitope in murine experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. In this informative strain combination, MHC class II-associated determinant selection, rather than Ag responsiveness per se, may play a major role in determining disease susceptibility. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of potential cardiac source of embolism in stroke patients. To compare the diagnostic yields of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of potential cardiac sources of embolism, 63 patients (mean +/- SD age 63 +/- 15 [range 18-87] years) with transient ischemic attacks or stroke underwent both procedures. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a potential cardiac source of embolism in 14% (nine) of the patients, all of whom had clinical evidence of heart disease. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed a potential cardiac source of embolism in 41% (26) of the patients; 27% (seven) of these patients had no clinical cardiovascular abnormalities. Abnormalities detected only by transesophageal echocardiography in the patients with unsuspected cardiac disease included atrial septal aneurysm in two, patent foramen ovale in two, left atrial appendage thrombus in one, and myxomatous mitral valve in two. The 26 patients with an identified cardiac source of embolism were older (67.5 versus 59.4 years, p = 0.04), more frequently in atrial fibrillation (62% [16] versus 8% [3], p less than 0.0001), had a larger left atrium (43 versus 37 mm, p = 0.01) and more commonly had left ventricular hypertrophy (62% [16] versus 32% [12], p less than 0.02) than the 37 patients in whom no cardiac source of embolism was identified. Thus, transesophageal echocardiography is more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of potential cardiac sources of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemic events. 
Localization and needle aspiration of breast lesions: complications in 370 cases. A prospective study of the immediate complications of 370 consecutive breast-imaging procedures (203 wire localizations and 167 radiographically or sonographically guided fine-needle aspirations) is reported. Vasovagal reactions occurred in 27 (7%) of 370 cases, ranging in severity from syncope (four of 370, 1%) to mild light-headedness. These vasovagal reactions were independent of procedure type or use of local anesthesia, but were more common in younger patients. Other complications included prolonged (5 min or longer) bleeding (three of 370, 1%) and extreme pain (two of 370, 1%). One patient was found to have malignant hypertension. We conclude that wire localizations and imaging-guided aspirations are generally well tolerated procedures. However, vasovagal reactions are frequent enough to warrant close observation of patients. Radiologists and breast-imaging personnel should be able to recognize and treat vasovagal reactions. 
Response of atrial natriuretic factor to acute and chronic increases of atrial pressures in experimental heart failure in dogs. Role of changes in heart rate, atrial dimension, and cardiac tissue concentration. BACKGROUND. This study evaluated the role of changes in heart rate, atrial pressure, volume, and cardiac tissue atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) concentration in the modulation of plasma ANF concentration in a model of pacing-induced heart failure. METHODS AND RESULTS. The effects of acute right ventricular pacing (250 beats/min), acute volume expansion (35 ml/min), and volume expansion after 1 week of right ventricular pacing on plasma ANF concentration were compared in eight dogs (group 1). As shown during right ventricular pacing previously, volume expansion produced significant increases in cardiac filling pressures and left atrial volume. Right ventricular pacing and volume expansion produced similar increments in plasma ANF concentration: from 32 +/- 12 to 168 +/- 153 pg/ml (p less than 0.05) and from 32 +/- 9 to 137 +/- 113 pg/ml (p less than 0.05), respectively. When pacing was initiated after volume expansion, plasma ANF concentration increased further to 462 +/- 295 pg/ml (p less than 0.05) despite little change in filling pressures and left atrial volume. With repeated volume expansion after 1 week of pacing, there were no significant further increases in left atrial volume and plasma ANF concentrations (from 332 +/- 121 to 407 +/- 113 pg/ml) despite significant increases in filling pressures. Atrial and ventricular tissue samples were also obtained from 21 dogs paced to severe heart failure (group 2) and from 14 normal dogs (controls). In all groups, atrial ANF was higher than ventricular ANF concentration. At 1 week (group 1), left atrial appendage ANF concentration (6.2 +/- 2.5 versus 16.1 +/- 10.3 ng/mg) was reduced, whereas left ventricular free wall ANF concentration (0.62 +/- 0.31 versus 0.24 +/- 0.16 pg/mg) was increased compared with that of controls (both p less than 0.001). At severe heart failure (group 2), atrial ANF remained low, whereas ventricular ANF concentration was similar to that of the controls. CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that in pacing-induced heart failure, changes in heart rate, atrial pressure, and volume all contribute to the increased plasma ANF concentration. However, by 1 week (early heart failure), ANF release is attenuated, perhaps because of the inability of the atria to be stretched further and because of reduced atrial ANF concentration. In addition, the ventricle may be an additional source of ANF. 
Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis: a pituitary mass lesion occurring in pregnancy. Proposal for medical treatment. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is a nonneoplastic, autoimmune cause of pituitary enlargement and insufficiency. Forty-eight of the 50 reported cases have occurred in women, nearly all in association with pregnancy. Left undiagnosed and untreated, it can progress to pituitary insufficiency and death. Histologic studies show characteristic changes of autoimmune disease with lymphocytic infiltration and destruction of anterior pituitary tissue with fibrotic replacement. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is currently diagnosed after other pituitary mass lesions are excluded and has been treated with a combination of neurosurgery and end-organ hormone replacement. However, with improved knowledge of the pathophysiologic characteristics and natural history of the disease and with the ability to make a prospective diagnosis, we believe glucocorticoids may suppress the inflammatory response and protect remaining pituitary tissue. Two previously unreported pregnancy-associated cases are described, including one prospectively diagnosed and treated without neurosurgery during pregnancy. Obstetrician-gynecologists must place lymphocytic adenohypophysitis in the differential diagnosis of pituitary enlargement associated with pregnancy, since treatment is available and the sequelae may be life-threatening. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma in Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii): evidence for association with hepatitis B-like virus infection. During studies of seasonal obesity, a high frequency of hepatic neoplasms was observed in Richardson's ground squirrels. Of 12 Richardson's ground squirrels examined thoroughly, 7 had mild or moderate degrees of chronic portal hepatitis and 6 (50%) had hepatocellular carcinoma. Serological tests for hepadnavirus surface antigen, anti-core antibody and virion DNA that recognize the ground squirrel hepatitis virus of California ground squirrels (Spermophilus beecheyi) were uniformly negative. Southern blot analyses of EcoRI digests of liver cell DNA demonstrated 3.2 kb fragments that hybridized with a ground squirrel hepatitis virus-specific probe in nontumorous liver tissue from 6 of 10 ground squirrels and in hepatocellular carcinoma specimens from 2 of 5 squirrels indicating infection with a hepadnavirus related to ground squirrel hepatitis virus. Failure, however, to detect serum antibody to ground squirrel hepatitis core antigen suggested probable antigenic differences between the ground squirrel hepatitis virus of California ground squirrels and the putative Richardson's ground squirrel agent. Further studies are required to fully characterize the hepadnavirus of Richardson's ground squirrels and to determine its relationship to hepatocarcinogenesis in this species. 
Experimental induction of heterotopic bone. Heterotopic bone can be induced in experimental animals by trauma to the soft tissues, by induction from living cells, or by extracts from bone and teeth. In the first two types, the mechanism of the inductive process is not known, whereas in the latter, a factor isolated from bone matrix induces bone formation. Mesenchymal cells in bone marrow are determined for development into cartilage and bone cells and only an unspecific stimulus, such as trauma or autotransplantation, is sufficient for the development into mature osteogenic tissue. Mesenchymal cells will not differentiate into bone cells unless stimulated by a specific inductive substance, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP). Implanted to a heterotopic site, BMP induces undifferentiated mesenchymal cells into a bone morphogenetic pathway of development, causing heterotopic bone formation. The quantitative inductive response is dependent on the source of the BMP, and the bone formation is also determined by the recruitment of inducible target cells and by the environment at the implantation site. Hence, the environment at the implantation site is of major importance for the amount of bone formed. BMP initiates a cascade of events that is modulated by endocrine and paracrine factors. The heterotopic bone has all the morphologic and biochemical characteristics of orthotopic bone, is subjected to turnover, and even has the intriguing ability to generate the formation of bone marrow. Experimental induction of heterotopic bone has become a most useful method to study osteoneogenesis and has supplied important information on the prerequisites for new bone formation and on the regulation of bone metabolism. 
Mechanisms of failure of mitral valve repair: an echocardiographic study. Surgical valve repair for mitral regurgitation has significant advantages over valve replacement, but little is known about the mechanisms of its failure. This echocardiographic study examined abnormalities leading to failed mitral valve repair in two populations: "immediate failure" of the valve repair in the operating room requiring a second run of cardiopulmonary bypass and "late failure" of valve repair necessitating reoperation on another occasion. Intraoperative echocardiography (IOE) after cardiopulmonary bypass was performed in 309 patients undergoing valve repair for mitral regurgitation over a 3-year period. Twenty-six (8%) of these patients had immediate failure of the repair demonstrated by IOE, requiring further repair or replacement during the same thoracotomy. The causes of immediate failure were left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (10 patients), incomplete correction (10 patients), and suture dehiscence (six patients). Echocardiography was performed on 17 patients requiring reoperation for recurrent mitral regurgitation who had undergone previous primary valve repair. These late failures resulted from progressive degenerative leaflet or chordal disease (n = 9) or suture dehiscence of the annular ring or the leaflet resection site (n = 6). In only two patients early in the series did the problem originate from inadequate initial surgery. IOE is an effective marker for unsuccessful mitral valve repair, and affords an understanding of the mechanism of the persistent dysfunction. Immediate failure of mitral repair may be reduced by greater attention to the mechanism of valve dysfunction and by changes in valvuloplasty technique to avoid outflow tract obstruction. Late failure after mitral repair occurs predominantly due to progression of disease, particularly in patients with severe myxomatous or annular abnormalities that are prone to progress. 
Sleep apnea and systemic hypertension: a causal association review. OBJECTIVE: To critically examine the causal association between sleep apnea syndrome and hypertension. METHODS: A retrospective systematic critique of five epidemiologic studies published in the English literature during 1978 to 1989 identified on Medline and manual literature searches. The evidence was evaluated using the standard observational criteria for causation: strength of association, consistency, dose-response relationship, temporal sequence, specificity, and biologic plausibility. RESULTS: We found evidence to support a causal association between sleep apnea syndrome and hypertension in consistency and specificity and some evidence to suggest a dose-response relationship. Review of the data dealing with the mechanisms important in the pathogenesis of sleep apnea and hypertension allowed us to advance several theories to provide support for biologic plausibility. CONCLUSION: We concluded that there is a positive association--relative risk estimate between 1.3 and 40--for sleep apnea syndrome and hypertension, but the risk association is unstable. Thus, we believe that there is insufficient data to justify doing polysomnography as part of the routine diagnostic work-up for patients with hypertension. 
Accessory receptors regulate coupling of the T-cell receptor complex to tyrosine kinase activation and mobilization of cytoplasmic calcium in T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia. T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells have abundant cytoplasmic CD3/Ti but express low amounts on the cell surface and are deficient in CD3/Ti-mediated signal transduction. Nevertheless, plating T-ALL cells on dishes containing immobilized anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies with a source of growth factors induced the expression of CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain) and stimulated the formation of blast colonies in 12 of 14 cases studied. The proliferative response to CD3 ligation was modulated by the presence of antibodies to the CD2, CD4, or CD8 accessory T-cell receptors. The effect of these accessory receptors on signal transduction mediated by CD3/Ti was next investigated by monitoring cytoplasmic calcium concentration [( Ca2+]i) and by measuring tyrosine phosphorylation after stimulation. Crosslinking CD3, CD2, CD4, or CD8 alone did not induce cytoplasmic calcium mobilization in T-ALLs, but crosslinking the accessory receptors with CD3/Ti induced calcium responses in three of the T-ALLs and enhanced calcium responses in three of the T-ALL cell lines, including HPB-ALL, MOLT-4, and CEM. Crosslinking CD4 but not CD2 with CD3/Ti greatly enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple substrates in comparison with crosslinking either CD4 or CD3/Ti separately on both normal mature T cells and the CEM T-ALL cell line. Thus, CD4 regulates CD3/Ti signal transduction in T-ALL cells through the tyrosine phosphorylation of substrates whereas CD2 may regulate [Ca2+]i signal transduction through a separate mechanism. 
Double-inlet ventricle presenting in infancy. II. Results of palliative operations. The influence of palliation on survival was studied in 191 consecutive infants, presenting at under 1 year of age, with double-inlet ventricle (1973 to 1988, median follow-up 8.5 years). Palliative operations were performed on 154 occasions in 121 patients (63%). Survival after a systemic-pulmonary arterial shunt (n = 57) and banding of the pulmonary trunk (n = 35) was comparable (84% and 77% at 1 year, 62% and 45% at 5 years), but those who underwent repair of aortic arch obstruction fared worse (n = 18, 44% and 22% at 1 and 5 years, p less than 0.001). The remainder did not undergo an operation because of balanced physiology (n = 17, 9% of entire group), complex anatomy (n = 32, 15%), or irreversible low output (n = 19, 12%). Palliative surgery, overall, had a deleterious effect on immediate survival (greater than 1 month relative risk 6.6, p less than 0.001), but, in the survivors, medium-term outcome was improved (greater than 6 months, 0.68, p less than 0.05). This effect was most marked for those undergoing a systemic-pulmonary artery shunt (less than 1 month, 2.52; greater than 6 months, 0.43); by contrast, after banding of the pulmonary trunk, with or without additional repair of the aortic arch repair, medium-term risk was not altered (greater than 6 months, 1.13 and 0.91, respectively). These data will assist the clinician in making decisions concerning the management of infants with double-inlet ventricle and in the judicious use of palliative surgery. 
Effect of intraoperative aprotinin administration on postoperative bleeding in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass operation. To study the hemostyptic effect of aprotinin (Trasylol) in patients undergoing extracorporeal circulation for coronary artery bypass operations, we randomized 12 of 24 patients to receive aprotinin in high dosage (about 800 mg) during extracorporeal circulation. From the resulting two groups each, one patient was excluded from the study because of postoperative myocardial infarction (control group) and surgical hemorrhage (aprotinin group) leading to a second operation. Although heparin was used for anticoagulation in all 22 patients, all had a marked increase in plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin III complexes during extracorporeal circulation, indicating an intravasal activation of coagulation. By monitoring the plasma levels of fibrin degradation products in patients without aprotinin therapy, we recorded a concomitant hyperfibrinolysis significantly less pronounced in patients receiving aprotinin (p less than 0.005). The mean total postoperative blood loss was lower in patients receiving aprotinin (620 ml) than in control patients (1000 ml; p less than 0.03). The results confirm previous reports of a hemostyptic effect of aprotinin in cardiac operations. This effect is probably due to a prevention of hyperfibrinolysis. 
Gout and hyperuricemia. Accurate diagnosis is essential since gout is overdiagnosed by a factor of three. Asymptomatic hyperuricemia is not associated with adverse consequences and should not ordinarily be treated. The acute attack of gout responds to any nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and antihyperuricemic therapy with allopurinol, probenecid or sulfinpyrazone is effective in lowering uric acid and preventing further attacks. Except for prophylaxis, colchicine is not recommended for the treatment of gout because of unacceptable levels of toxicity. Diet therapy, once a mainstay of treatment, is usually not indicated since drug therapy alone is far more efficacious. 
Reduced cerebral grey matter observed in alcoholics using magnetic resonance imaging. Twenty-eight chronic alcoholics and 36 age- and sex-matched non-alcoholic controls were examined with magnetic resonance imaging and brain morphometric analyses. Results confirmed large increases in subarachnoid cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) volume and mild ventricular enlargement in the alcoholics and revealed associated volume reductions of localized cortical and subcortical cerebral structures. Volume losses in the diencephalon, the caudate nucleus, dorsolateral frontal and parietal cortex, and mesial temporal lobe structures were the most prominent. Significant correlations between increments in cortical and ventricular CSF and decrements in the volume of cortical and subcortical grey matter were noted. Although there was little evidence for relationships between performance on neuropsychological tests and volume of grey matter structures, significant correlations between some cognitive measures and subcortical and cortical fluid volumes were found. The parallels between this pattern of affected structures and recent neuropathological findings are discussed. 
Pathogenesis of edema in constrictive pericarditis. Studies of body water and sodium, renal function, hemodynamics, and plasma hormones before and after pericardiectomy. BACKGROUND. The pathogenesis of sodium and water accumulation in chronic constrictive pericarditis is not well understood and may differ from that in patients with chronic congestive heart failure due to myocardial disease. This study was undertaken to investigate some of the mechanisms. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using standard techniques, the hemodynamics, water and electrolyte spaces, renal function, and plasma concentrations of hormones were measured in 16 patients with untreated constrictive pericarditis and were measured again in eight patients after pericardiectomy. The average hemodynamic measurements were as follows: cardiac output, 1.98 l/min/m2; right atrial pressure, 22.9 mm Hg; pulmonary wedge pressure, 24.2 mm Hg; and mean pulmonary artery pressure 30.2 mm Hg. The systemic and pulmonary vascular resistances (36.3 +/- 2.5 and 3.2 +/- 0.3 mm Hg.min.m2/l, respectively) were increased. Significant increases occurred in total body water (36%), extracellular volume (81%), plasma volume (53%), and exchangeable sodium (63%). The renal plasma flow was only moderately decreased (49%), and the glomerular filtration rate was normal. Significant increases also occurred in plasma concentrations of norepinephrine (3.6 times normal), renin activity (7.2 time normal), aldosterone (3.4 times normal), cortisol (1.4 times normal), growth hormone (21.8 times normal), and atrial natriuretic peptide (5 times normal). The ratio of left atrial to aortic diameter measured by echocardiography was only minimally increased (1.29 +/- 0.04), indicating that in constrictive pericarditis the atria are prevented from expanding. The studies repeated after pericardiectomy in the eight patients showed that all measurements returned toward normal. CONCLUSIONS. The restricted distensibility of the atria, in constrictive pericarditis, limits the secretion of atrial natriuretic factor and, thus, reduces its natriuretic and diuretic effects. This results in retention of water and sodium greater than that occurring in patients with edema from myocardial disease. The arterial pressure is maintained more by the expansion of the blood volume than by an increase in the peripheral vascular resistance. 
Transient penetration of the hip joint during in situ cannulated-screw fixation of slipped capital femoral epiphysis. Before the routine intraoperative use of fluoroscopy at our institution during procedures to stabilize a slipped capital femoral epiphysis, twenty-five patients (thirty hips) had in situ cannulated-screw stabilization of a slipped capital femoral epiphysis with use of biplane radiography. Thus, a permanent record of the procedure was available for review. Fourteen hips in fourteen patients had an intraoperative episode during which the joint was penetrated by the guide-pin assembly or cannulated screw, or both. This penetration was corrected at the time of the operation. Eleven patients were followed for a minimum of two years (mean, thirty-nine months; range, twenty-four to sixty-three months). All physes went on to closure. None of the patients had clinical or radiographic evidence of chondrolysis. Transient penetration of the hip joint did not lead to chondrolysis in this series. This suggests that a single episode of penetration by a pin or screw, with immediate removal from the joint, is not associated with the development of chondrolysis. 
Massive hepatic enlargement with fatty change associated with ketoconazole Several forms of hepatic toxicity have been described with the antifungal agent ketoconazole. We report a case of massive liver enlargement with fatty infiltration presenting as gastric compression. This occurred in a young woman with AIDS taking ketoconazole as maintenance therapy for cryptococcal meningitis. This is the first reported case of ketoconazole causing fatty change in the liver. 
Angelchik prosthesis complicates treatment of adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus. Indications for use of the Angelchik prosthesis remain controversial, and many surgeons actively involved in the treatment of reflux disease have not used the device. We describe a case that illustrates difficulties associated with resection of a tumor in the presence of this prothesis. Such experience suggests that patients known to have Barrett's esophagus might be better treated with standard antireflux procedures. 
Appendicitis: prospective evaluation with high-resolution CT. Computed tomography (CT) was used to prospectively evaluate 100 patients with clinical indications for acute appendicitis. Examinations were performed with the terminal ileum and cecum filled with contrast material. Acute appendicitis was diagnosed when an abnormal appendix or inflammatory changes plus an appendicolith were detected. Failure to visualize an abnormal appendix or appendicolith in the presence of pericecal inflammatory changes was considered suspicious but nonspecific. CT results were correlated with surgical and pathologic results (74 patients) and other radiologic and clinical findings (26 patients). CT helped to diagnose appendicitis (64 patients) and nonspecific right lower quadrant inflammation (five patients) and to rule out appendicitis (31 patients). CT had a 98% sensitivity, an 83% specificity, and a 93% accuracy. In 17 of 31 patients without CT evidence of appendicitis, other conditions explaining their symptoms were detected. When the clinical diagnosis is in doubt, CT can be used successfully to evaluate patients with acute appendicitis. 
Syndrome of the cervical plexus caused by high cervical nerve root compression. Lesions affecting the roots of the cervical plexus can cause a syndrome not previously described. The C3-C4 disc space is the most likely to be involved, but pressure on the C5 root can also produce facial, auricular, or retroauricular pain. Motor innervation to the diaphragm can be affected, and even the uppermost disc space at C2-C3 might be implicated. Findings on examination findings are sparse, although sensory impairment in areas of cervical plexus innervation has been observed. In a series of 1000 cervical decompression cases (both anterior and posterior) for disc disease or similar processes, only 10 instances of this syndrome have been found. Paresthesia or episodic shock-like pain affecting the ear, para-auricular, lower occipital, and mandibular areas prompted by head turning or extension are the most common complaints. 
Fast short-tau inversion-recovery MR imaging. To enhance the versatility of the short-tau inversion-recovery (STIR) sequences, the authors determined a range of repetition time (TR) and inversion time (TI) combinations that suppress signal intensity from fat by study of both patient and phantom images. To make fast STIR images, variations in the following pulsing conditions were studied with use of an interactive computer program: decreasing the TR, limiting the number of excitations, and limiting the number of phase-encoding steps. The authors found that (a) STIR imaging need not be time consuming, (b) fat suppression can be accomplished at shorter TR by using shorter TI, and (c) short-TR fast STIR imaging is sensitive to enhancement with gadopentetate dimeglumine. 
Antibody responses to protein, polysaccharide, and phi X174 antigens in the hyperimmunoglobulinemia E (hyper-IgE) syndrome. To investigate whether an underlying defect in antibody (Ab)-forming capacity could contribute to the infection susceptibility of patients with hyper-IgE syndrome, we evaluated 11 such patients for their responses to bacteriophage phi X174 (phi X174), diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, and pneumococcal (Pneumovax) and Hemophilus influenzae vaccines. Three of nine patients immunized with phi X174 had normal primary and secondary Ab responses, five had accelerated declines in their titers after initially normal primary Ab responses and lower than normal secondary Ab responses, and two of the latter patients failed to switch normally from IgM to IgG Ab production. Only one of 10 patients tested had normal Ab responses to diphtheria toxoid, and postimmunization antitetanus titers were abnormally low in five of the 10 patients tested. Serum Abs to H. influenzae polyribose phosphate were protective in seven of the eight immunized patients. Five of the nine patients administered Pneumovax had poor Ab responses to at least one of the pneumococcal serotypes 7, 9, or 14. Abnormal antipolysaccharide responses did not correlate with IgG2 deficiency. All patients responded with protective Ab levels to type 3. Thus, patients with hyper-IgE syndrome are heterogeneous with respect to their Ab-forming capacities. Ab deficiency may contribute to infection susceptibility in some of these patients. 
Immunohistochemical expression of galactomannan in the cytoplasm of phagocytic cells during invasive aspergillosis. The monoclonal antibody EB-A1 to galactomannan is apparently specific for detecting Aspergillus species and Penicillium marneffei in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues. It reveals hyphae, remnants of filaments, and organisms in the cytoplasm of some phagocytic cells. 
Successful transcatheter embolization of pseudoaneurysm associated with pancreatic pseudocyst. Hemorrhage into a pancreatic pseudocyst is a rare event, but is the most rapidly lethal complication of chronic pancreatitis. Visceral-vessel aneurysms are an unexpectedly common finding in arteriography of patients with chronic pancreatitis. This case report describes bleeding from an anterior superior pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm, caused by chronic pancreatitis. The aneurysm was successfully treated by embolization with a steel coil. 
Successful operation on a coronary arteriovenous fistula in a 74 year old woman. Coronary arteriovenous fistulas are rare and are usually diagnosed in children or young adults. Most are believed to be congenital. A right coronary arteriovenous fistula was first diagnosed in a patient of 74. Despite her age the fistula was successfully operated on and her symptoms were relieved. 
Antifungal treatment by amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine delays the recovery of normal hematopoietic cells after intensive cytostatic therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Systemic fungal infections are recognized at increasing frequency during the course of intensive therapy for acute leukemias and require parenteral antifungal treatment mostly by amphotericin B (ampho B) alone or in combination with 5-Fluorocytosine (5-FC). Because of the potential myelosuppressive side effects of 5-FC it was the aim of the current study to evaluate the recovery of hematopoietic cells after intensive antileukemic therapy in patients receiving ampho B and 5-FC treatment for proven or suspected systemic fungal infections. The study population comprised 87 patients who were treated by standard chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) at first diagnosis or relapse. Twenty-two patients underwent systemic antifungal therapy consisting of ampho B (3 to 10 mg/kg/d) and 5-FC (150 mg/kg/d) for 3 to 33 days (median, 12 days). The remaining 65 patients served as controls to assess the hematologic recovery time (TR) as defined by the interval between the onset of chemotherapy and the post-treatment rise of granulocyte levels to greater than 500 cmm and thrombocyte levels to greater than 20,000 cmm. In patients receiving antifungal therapy, a significant prolongation of TR was observed with a median TR of 29 days compared with a median TR of 24 days (P = 0.0016) for the control group. No correlation was found between TR and the total dose of either ampho B or 5-FC or the type of antileukemic regimen. A possibly direct myelosuppressive effect of a fungal infection was unlikely to explain the findings because the ampho B/5-FC treatment was started in patients with proven or only suspected fungal infections, causing a similar delay of TR in both groups. The present data strongly suggest a myelosuppressive effect of ampho B/5-FC antifungal treatment in patients after intensive chemotherapy for acute leukemias. 
Postoperative deficits and functional recovery following removal of tumors involving the dominant hemisphere supplementary motor area. The supplementary motor area (SMA) is a region located within each cerebral hemisphere at the posterior mesial border of the frontal lobe adjacent to the falx. The functional significance of this area has been somewhat unclear, and information regarding its influence on motor output has largely been based on evoked responses to direct stimulation in primates and humans. In this series of patients with primary and metastatic tumors involving the dominant hemisphere SMA, a distinct pattern of postoperative deficits and recovery has emerged which emphasizes the role of this critical area in the initiation of motor activity, including speech. Based upon this analysis, ablation of this region after first identifying the primary motor cortex may be accomplished without risk of permanent loss of motor activity or speech function, despite the initial severe deficits. 
A case of photosensitivity and contact allergy to systemic tricyclic drugs, with unusual features. A 43-year-old farmer on tricyclic antidepressive drugs developed a severe photodermatitis with associated liver involvement. The lesions spread to covered areas of the skin, suggesting photoallergy clinically. Patch and photopatch testing revealed photoallergy and contact allergy to clomipramine and contact allergy also to carbamazepine. In addition, the patient had positive patch test reactions to chlorpromazine, balsam of Peru and fragrance-mix, as well as a positive photopatch test to fentichlor. UVA and UVB erythema thresholds were normal. In this patient, an initial episode of photosensitization, probably elicited by clomipramine, was accompanied by contact allergy to this drug and to carbamazepine. The contact sensitivity to clomipramine could also be elicited by oral provocation without UV light. Hypothetically, a photoproduct of clomipramine may have been the original sensitizer, this compound subsequently cross-reacting with clomipramine and, possibly with carbamazepine. 
Hypophosphatemic osteomalacia in von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis. Skeletal lesions are not uncommon in von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis. Most of them are considered to be dysplastic in nature. Association of osteomalacia or rickets with neurofibromatosis has been documented only rarely. Reported herein is a 40-year-old woman with known von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis who presented with bone pain, multiple pseudofractures, marked increase in osteoid by bone biopsy, and hypophosphatemia with renal phosphate wasting. Treatment with oral phosphate and vitamin D was effective. A survey of the literature revealed that 34 similar cases have been reported in the past. Although the exact pathogenetic mechanism remains to be determined, osteomalacia in neurofibromatosis appears to be distinct from more common dysplastic skeletal affections of this disease, being characterized by later onset in adulthood as a rule, renal phosphate loss with hypophosphatemia, multiple pseudofractures in typical cases, and response to treatment with pharmacological dose of vitamin D with or without phosphate supplement. 
Occult metastatic neck disease: detection with US and US-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology. The authors performed a prospective study of the value of ultrasonography (US) and US-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) for assessment of N0 lesions in the neck. Preoperative US was performed in 107 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, who underwent 132 elective neck dissections. During the US examination of the last 54 patients, who underwent 70 elective neck dissections, US-guided FNAC was performed. US alone was found to be an unreliable method for detecting occult lymph node metastasis; the accuracy never exceeded 70% (93 of 132), with a sensitivity of 60% (32 of 53) and a specificity of 77% (61 of 79). In contrast, US-guided FNAC had an accuracy of 89% (62 of 70), a sensitivity of 76% (25 of 33), and a specificity of 100% (37 of 37). Because of the high sensitivity and specificity of US-guided FNAC for the assessment of the N0 neck, this modality may play an important role in directing treatment of these patients in the future. 
Impact of temperature elevation on immunologic defenses. Fever is a common response to infection and to other challenges to host defense. Temperature elevation has been associated with effects on the recognition, recruitment, and effector phases of the immune response. Specific immunologic responses are generally enhanced in the setting of temperature elevation within the physiologic range but not the supraphysiologic range. In contrast, natural immune responses may be unchanged or adversely affected. Temperature elevation appears to affect primarily the phase of recognition and sensitization or activation of mononuclear leukocytes. T lymphocyte responses (and/or the interactions of T lymphocytes with monocytes-macrophages) are enhanced for generation of effector cells. The activities of the effector cells, once generated, are usually not enhanced--or may even be depressed--by temperature elevation, but decreases are more than offset by increased T helper function. Overall, the data suggest that temperature elevations of the febrile response constitute a beneficial component of effective host defense. 
Pericardial mass mimicking constrictive pericarditis. Persistent pericardial hematoma due to blunt chest trauma is extremely rare. We report a case of constricted myocardium resulting from a large, partially organized hematoma in the right cardiophrenic angle. The hematoma was assumed to be caused by an occupational accident 17 years before diagnosis. Constriction could only be controlled by complete removal of the fibrous posterior capsule of the hematoma, which covered the epicardium of the right heart. 
Paediatric haemangiomas: the role of radiotherapy. Radiotherapy currently maintains an occasional place in the therapy of complicated haemangiomas of childhood. Eight such childhood benign lesions have been so treated at St Bartholomew's Hospital in the last 10 years. The case histories are presented before being discussed in the context of other therapies available (no treatment, steroids, embolism and surgery), radiation technique used and radiation dose prescription advised. 
Cavoatrial tumor thrombectomy using cardiopulmonary bypass without circulatory arrest. Of 29 patients with inferior vena caval tumor thrombus, 14 with supradiaphragmatic extension were deemed suitable for operation. Patients (age, 7.5 to 70 years) had renal cell carcinoma (n = 8), Wilms' tumor (n = 2), transitional cell carcinoma (n = 1), and adrenal carcinoma (n = 3). Seven patients had stage III disease, and 7 patients had stage IV disease. Two patients (group A) had unresectable disease at exploratory celiotomy, 4 patients (group B) underwent tumor thrombectomy without cardiopulmonary bypass, and cardiopulmonary bypass was employed in 8 patients (group C). Three of 8 group C patients had Budd-Chiari syndrome at diagnosis. Cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia, and inferior vena caval interruption (clip or filter), was employed in all patients. There were no perioperative deaths. Transient neurological impairment was observed postoperatively in 2 patients. Coagulopathy developed in 1 patient who had hepatic encephalopathy and Budd-Chiari syndrome preoperatively and in another patient in whom protamine could not be administered. No patient had acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. Median survival is 41 and 17 months in groups B and C, respectively. Some authors have advocated profound hypothermia and circulatory arrest in these patients. We find that satisfactory visualization and excision can be performed with cardiopulmonary bypass and moderate hypothermia, avoiding potential renal, hepatic, neurological, and septic complications associated with circulatory arrest. 
Transplantation after first-stage reconstruction for hypoplastic left heart syndrome. The surgical treatment of infants born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome has received considerable attention in recent years. Although this lesion was previously considered uniformly fatal, dramatic successes have been achieved with the use of staged reconstructive and replacement therapies. However, both surgical options have benefits and limitations, and neither has demonstrated clear superiority over the other. As survival for first-stage reconstruction by the Norwood procedure has improved, a greater number of patients are potential candidates for the Fontan operation, but not all will be suitable at an acceptable risk. These patients may be treated by cardiac transplantation. The results of a treatment protocol for 90 patients with classic hypoplastic left heart syndrome or its variants at The University of Michigan are reported, with particular attention given to those patients surviving initial palliation but judged to be unsuitable for a subsequent Fontan procedure. 
Staurosporine facilitates recovery from the basal forebrain-lesion-induced impairment of learning and deficit of cholinergic neuron in rats. Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the loss of cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert and by a primary loss of memory function. Since staurosporine has been reported to induce differentiation in human neuroblastoma cells in vitro, we studied the effects of staurosporine on the amnesia induced by basal forebrain-lesion in rats. Staurosporine (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg intraperitoneal) attenuated the impaired performance of water maze and passive avoidance tasks, even though the drug administration began 2 weeks after the lesion. Moreover, staurosporine (0.1 mg/kg) partially reversed the decrease of choline acetyltransferase activity in the fronto-parietal cortex induced by basal forebrain-lesion. These results suggest that staurosporine attenuates impairment of learning through reversal of damage to cholinergic neurons induced by basal forebrain-lesion. This evidence indicates that neurotrophic factor-like substances may be used in novel therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer's disease. 
Perioperative total parenteral nutrition in surgical patients. The Veterans Affairs Total Parenteral Nutrition Cooperative Study Group BACKGROUND. We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that perioperative total parenteral nutrition (TPN) decreases the incidence of serious complications after major abdominal or thoracic surgical procedures in malnourished patients. METHODS. We studied 395 malnourished patients (99 percent of them male) who required laparotomy or noncardiac thoracotomy. They were randomly assigned to receive either TPN for 7 to 15 days before surgery and 3 days afterward (the TPN group) or no perioperative TPN (the control group). The patients were monitored for complications for 90 days after surgery. RESULTS. The rates of major complications during the first 30 days after surgery in the two groups were similar (TPN group, 25.5 percent; control group, 24.6 percent), as were the overall 90-day mortality rates (13.4 percent and 10.5 percent, respectively). There were more infectious complications in the TPN group than in the controls (14.1 vs. 6.4 percent; P = 0.01; relative risk, 2.20; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.19 to 4.05), but slightly more noninfectious complications in the control group (16.7 vs. 22.2 percent; P = 0.20; relative risk, 0.75; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.50 to 1.13). The increased rate of infections was confined to patients categorized as either borderline or mildly malnourished, according to Subjective Global Assessment or an objective nutritional assessment, and these patients had no demonstrable benefit from TPN. In contrast, severely malnourished patients who received TPN had fewer noninfectious complications than controls (5 vs. 43 percent; P = 0.03; relative risk, 0.12; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.02 to 0.91), with no concomitant increase in infectious complications. CONCLUSIONS. The use of preoperative TPN should be limited to patients who are severely malnourished unless there are other specific indications. 
Consequences of queuing for care at a public hospital emergency department OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the length of a queue at a public hospital emergency department was associated with increased likelihood of patients' leaving without being seen by a physician and whether leaving adversely affected patients' health or affected their subsequent use of health care services. DESIGN: Observational cohort. Patients were surveyed during 1 week in July 1990 and received a follow-up survey 7 to 14 days later. The responses of patients who left without being seen by a physician were compared with those who were seen by a physician. SETTING: Emergency department at San Francisco (Calif) General Hospital. PATIENTS: All English-, Spanish-, and Cantonese-speaking adults waiting for emergency care were eligible. Of 882 eligible individuals, 700 agreed to participate; 85% of enrolled subjects saw a physician and 15% left without being seen. Demographic characteristics of patients who were and who were not seen were not significantly different. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Emergency department waiting time and changes in patients' self-reported health. RESULTS: Patients were more likely to leave as waiting times increased. At follow-up, patients who left without being seen were twice as likely as those who were seen to report that their pain or the seriousness of their problem was worse. Only 4% of patients who left required subsequent hospitalization, but 27% returned to an emergency department. CONCLUSION: Many patients can appropriately decide whether their problem is truly urgent and make alternative plans in the face of long waits, but the health of some patients may be jeopardized by long queues for emergency care. 
The hyperekplexias and their relationship to the normal startle reflex. The startle response to unexpected auditory and somaesthetic stimulation was studied in 8 patients with hereditary or symptomatic hyperekplexia. It was abnormal in its resistance to habituation and in its exaggerated motor response. Both noise and taps to the face and head elicited a normal early blink response, separate from the subsequent true startle reflex. The earliest reflex EMG activity recorded after the blink was in sternocleidomastoid. EMG activity in masseter, and trunk and limb muscles followed later. This pattern of muscle recruitment suggests a brainstem origin for the abnormal startle responses. In addition, the abnormal startle responses exhibited disproportionately long latencies to the intrinsic hand and foot muscles and relatively slow recruitment of caudal muscles. The pattern of muscle recruitment was similar between patients, irrespective of the absolute latency of the response, and regardless of whether stimulation was auditory or somaesthetic. This suggests that auditory and somaesthetic afferents converge on a common brainstem efferent system, and that this system forms the final common pathway for abnormal startle responses of differing latency. The characteristics of this efferent system differ from those previously described in brainstem reticular reflex myoclonus, but are similar to those described in the normal auditory startle reflex in man. This suggests that the abnormal startle response in hyperekplexia, and the normal startle reflex represent pathological and physiological activity in the same brainstem efferent system. 
Four years of North American registry home parenteral nutrition outcome data and their implications for patient management. The OASIS Registry started annual collection of longitudinal data on patients on home parenteral nutrition (HPN) in 1984. This report describes outcome profiles on 1594 HPN patients in seven disease categories. Analysis showed clinical outcome was principally a reflection of the underlying diagnosis. Patients with Crohn's disease, ischemic bowel disease, motility disorders, radiation enteritis, and congenital bowel dysfunction all had a fairly long-term clinical outcome, whereas those with active cancer and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) had a short-term outcome. The long-term group had a 3-year survival rate of 65 to 80%, they averaged 2.6 complications requiring hospitalization per year, and 49% experienced complete rehabilitation. The short-term group had a mean survival of 6 months; they averaged 4.6 complications per year and about 15% experienced complete rehabilitation. The registry data also indicated HPN was used for 19,700 patients in 1987 with therapy growth averaging about 8% per year. This growth was chiefly from new cancer patients. The number of new patients with long-term disorders in whom HPN was initiated appeared rather constant. We conclude that these clinical outcome assessments justify HPN for long-term patients, but the utility and appropriateness of HPN for the cancer and AIDS patients remains uncertain and requires further study. Medical, social, and fiscal aspects of HPN management in long-term and short-term patients appear to involve quite separate considerations. 
Can decision analysis help in the management of giant hemangioma of the liver? [editorial] We explore the trade-off between the risk and expected benefits from resection of giant liver hemangioma (GLH), one larger than 4 cm in diameter. We searched the English-language literature for studies of the postoperative mortality after resection of GLH and of the outcome of expectantly treated patients. The results of the data synthesis showed an operative mortality of 1.5% (90% confidence intervals, 0.1-3.0%) and an early surgical morbidity of up to 13%. Mortality among the 37 reported cases with ruptured GLH was 78%. There were no cases of spontaneous or traumatic rupture of unresected GLH during a follow-up of a total of 282 patient years. The main source of ambiguity regarding the management of GLH is the uncertain risk of its rupture. Rough estimates of this risk based on published data suggest that surgical resection is not justified in asymptomatic GLH. Yet, although rare, rupture of GLH does occur with disastrous consequences. Future research may attempt to define patient subsets whose GLHs are at higher risk of rupture, and in whom preventive resection may improve survival. 
Evidence of a selective increase in cardiac sympathetic activity in patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias BACKGROUND. Although enhanced efferent cardiac sympathetic nervous activity has been proposed as an important factor in the genesis of ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death, direct clinical evidence has been lacking. METHODS. We measured the rates of total and cardiac norepinephrine spillover into the plasma, which reflect respectively overall and cardiac sympathetic nervous activity, in 12 patients who had recovered from a spontaneous, sustained episode of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation outside the hospital 4 to 48 days earlier. The results were compared with those from three age-matched reference groups without a history of ventricular arrhythmias: 12 patients with coronary artery disease, 6 patients with chest pain but normal coronary arteries, and 12 healthy, normal subjects. RESULTS. The patients who had had ventricular arrhythmias had reduced left ventricular ejection fractions, as compared with the patients with coronary artery disease or chest pain (mean [+/- SE], 46 +/- 3 percent vs. 58 +/- 4 percent and 69 +/- 5 percent, respectively; P less than 0.003). The rates of total norepinephrine spillover into the plasma were similar in the three reference groups, but 80 percent higher in the patients with ventricular arrhythmias (P less than 0.005). The rate of cardiac norepinephrine spillover was 450 percent higher in these patients (176 +/- 39 pmol per minute, as compared with 32 +/- 8 pmol per minute in the normal subjects; P less than 0.001), a disproportionate increase relative to the increase in total spillover, which indicated selective activation of the cardiac sympathetic outflow. This increase in cardiac norepinephrine spillover was probably caused by a reduction in left ventricular function. CONCLUSIONS. These results suggest that in some patients major ventricular arrhythmias are associated with and perhaps caused by sustained and selective cardiac sympathetic activation. We speculate that depressed ventricular function was present before the ventricular arrhythmia occurred, and that this resulted in reflex cardiac sympathetic activation, which in turn contributed to the genesis of the arrhythmia. 
Sebaceous carcinoma: an unusual cause of a rapidly enlarging rhinophyma. We describe a patient who developed sebaceous carcinoma within a long-standing rhinophyma with rapid enlargement of the lesion. We believe the development of this tumour was a random occurrence but the possibility of tumour development should be considered in any rhinophyma showing a rapid increase in size. 
End-stage avascular necrosis of bone in renal transplant patients. The natural history. We report the results of conservative treatment of stage III and stage IV avascular necrosis of bone (AVN) affecting the hip or knee in renal transplant patients. Twenty-nine patients were followed for a mean period of five years. Conservative management was successful in controlling symptoms in 40% of those with AVN of the hip and in 70% of those with AVN of the knee. Knowledge of the natural history of AVN is important because of the long survival times after renal transplantation. 
Sigmoid sinus thrombosis diagnosis by contrasted MRI scanning. Septic thrombosis of the transverse-sigmoid sinuses and the jugular bulb is a highly lethal condition. The presenting signs and symptoms of this disease entity are subtle and not in proportion to the magnitude of the problem. Later in the disease course, sudden fulminant findings appear. A high index of suspicion, combined with scanning techniques of either enhanced MRI or CT, allows prompt diagnosis and treatment. MRI enhanced with gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) is a valuable adjunct that confirms the diagnosis and delineates the extent of suspected pathology. 
Epicardial and endocardial mapping of ventricular tachycardia in patients with myocardial infarction. Is the origin of the tachycardia always subendocardially localized? BACKGROUND. Left ventricular endocardial reentry is the conventional concept underlying surgery for ventricular tachycardia (VT). We assessed the incidences of patterns showing complete reentry circuits at either the subendocardial or subepicardial level and of patterns in which left ventricular endocardial mapping could only in part account for a reentrant mechanism. METHODS AND RESULTS. We retrospectively analyzed epicardial and left ventricular endocardial isochronal maps of 47 VTs induced in 28 patients with chronic myocardial infarction (inferior, 14 patients; anteroseptal, 14 patients). Electrograms were recorded intraoperatively from 128 sites with epicardial sock and transatrial left ventricular endocardial balloon electrode arrays. Given the methodology used in this study, the mapping characteristics of the tachycardias suggested five types of activation patterns: 1) complete (90% or more of VT cycle length) subendocardial reentry circuits in seven VTs (15%) and seven patients (25%), 2) complete subepicardial reentry circuits in four VTs (9%) and four patients (14%), 3) incompletely mapped circuits with a left ventricular endocardial breakthrough preceding the epicardial breakthrough in 25 VTs (53%) and 21 patients (75%), 4) incompletely mapped circuits with a left ventricular epicardial breakthrough preceding the endocardial breakthrough in three VTs (6%) and three patients (11%), and 5) a right ventricular epicardial breakthrough preceding the left ventricular endocardial breakthrough in eight VTs (17%) and seven patients (25%). After surgery, one type 3 VT and three type 5 VTs were reinducible. Thus, left ventricular endocardial reentry substrates (types 1 and 3) accounted for 68% of VTs, but substrates involving subepicardial (types 2 and 4) and deep septal layers (type 5) accounted for 32% of VTs. CONCLUSIONS: In a substantial number of VTs, a substrate localization that is at variance with the conventional concept can be detected by simultaneous epicardial and endocardial mapping and may require modification of the surgical approach conventionally aimed at endocardial layers. 
Williams syndrome: masseter spasm during anaesthesia. A 4-year-old boy with Williams syndrome developed masseter spasm after halothane and suxamethonium. He did not develop malignant hyperthermia; the surgery was accomplished with a nontriggering anaesthetic and no further problems. 
Preherpetic neuralgia. We have encountered six zoster patients whose pain preceded rash by 7 to more than 100 days. Pain was severe, burning, and radicular, and located both in dermatomes different from, as well as in, the area of eventual rash. Two patients ultimately developed disseminated zoster with neurologic complications, one of zoster paresis, and the other, a fatal zoster encephalitis; both had been taking long-term, low-dose steroids. A third case of preherpetic neuralgia developed in a patient with prior metastatic carcinoma, and another case in a patient with an earlier episode of brachial neuritis. The final two cases of preherpetic neuralgia developed in individuals with no underlying disease. An extended period of pain before the onset of zoster rash has gone largely unrecognized. 
Clonorchis-associated cholangiocarcinoma: a report of two cases with unusual manifestations. Two cases of Clonorchis-associated cholangiocarcinoma are described along with their cholangiographic features to illustrate the spectrum of pathology ascribed to the injurious effects of the flukes on the bile duct epithelium. This includes adenomatous hyperplasia, extensive fibrosis, and carcinoma. The first case was also complicated by hepatic abscesses, left hepatic lobar atrophy, gastrobiliary and biliarocutaneous fistulae. The second case features an unusually dilated pancreatic duct containing pancreaticoliths that was found later to consist of hyperplastic bile duct epithelium, presumably carried by worm migration in the biliary tree. Liver sections from both patients showed typical features of hepatic clonorchiasis with the cancer. A knowledge of the wide spectrum of clinical presentation of clonorchiasis, particularly cholangiocarcinoma, might aid Western physicians in averting this serious sequela through prompt eradication of the helminthic infection and early recognition and treatment of its complications. 
Biliary lithotripsy: correlation between gallbladder contractility before treatment and the success of treatment. We perform biliary lithotripsy without adjuvant chemolitholytic agents, and therefore fragment clearance depends solely on the gallbladder's ability to evacuate its contents. We studied 205 patients to determine if gallbladder contractility before biliary lithotripsy is a predictor of treatment results and rate of fragment clearance. Percentage gallbladder contraction was calculated from the fractional difference in the sonographically measured gallbladder volumes before and after a fatty meal. Seventy-six patients (37%) were free of stones and fragments, and 129 patients (63%) had residual fragments at comparable follow-up intervals. Statistical analysis showed a significant difference in gallbladder contractility before biliary lithotripsy between the fragment-free group and the residual-fragment group (p = .008). Stone burden before treatment showed no significant difference between the groups (p = .074), but the number of stones was significantly less in the fragment-free group (p = .022). In the fragment-free group, a poor correlation (r = .047) was found between the percentage gallbladder contraction and the rate of fragment clearance. These data indicate that contractility of the gallbladder before treatment correlates with overall success of biliary lithotripsy but is not a predictor of the speed of fragment clearance. 
Long-term follow-up and prognostic factor analysis in advanced ovarian carcinoma: the Gynecologic Oncology Group experience. Long-term follow-up was obtained on 726 women with advanced ovarian carcinoma (suboptimal stage III and stage IV) who had received primary chemotherapy on two Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) protocols between 1976 and 1982. The first study compared melphalan alone versus melphalan plus hexamethylmelamine versus cyclophosphamide plus doxorubicin (CA). The second study evaluated the same CA regimen with or without cisplatin. Eligibility for the two studies was the same. At last contact, 76 patients were alive. In a multivariate analysis, cell type other than clear cell or mucinous, cisplatin-based treatment, good performance status, younger age, lower stage, clinically nonmeasurable disease, smaller residual tumor volume, and absence of ascites were favorable characteristics for overall survival (P less than .05). Second-look laparotomy was negative significantly more often among those with endometrioid tumors; there were no negative second-look laparotomies among those with mucinous or clear cell tumors. There were 30 patients with suboptimal stage III disease who had a negative second-look laparotomy; 18 (60%) have experienced recurrence, and 13 (43%) have died. Although cisplatin treatment was beneficial, new treatments are clearly needed. 
Radiolabeled antibody imaging in the management of colorectal cancer. Results of a multicenter clinical study. Presurgical colorectal cancer patients (n = 116) received single intravenous infusions of 1 mg of CYT-103 (OncoScint CR103), an immunoconjugate of monoclonal antibody B72.3, radiolabeled with 111In. Following gamma camera imaging, 103 patients underwent an operative procedure: 92 had primary or recurrent colorectal carcinoma, 1 patient evaluated for recurrence of colorectal cancer had a second primary malignancy (small cell lung), and 10 patients had no demonstrable evidence of malignancy. 111In-CYT-103 immunoscintigraphic findings were consistent with the pathologic diagnoses for 70% of patients with colorectal cancer and 90% of disease-free patients. Antibody imaging contributed to surgical decision making through the detection of occult disease (12% of patients) and the confirmation of localized, potentially resectable disease without regional or metastatic spread. Seven patients (6%) experienced adverse effects, primarily fevers and itching, and 33% of patients developed antibodies to murine immunoglobulin after administration of 111In-CYT-103. The results of this study suggest that 111In-CYT-103 is a useful diagnostic tool for the presurgical evaluation of colorectal cancer patients. 
Management of infected aortoiliac aneurysms. A 30-year retrospective review identified 13 patients treated for infected aneurysms of the abdominal aorta or iliac arteries, for an overall incidence of 0.65%. A constellation of clinical findings led to the correct preoperative diagnosis in 11 (85%) of 13 patients. Treatment methods included resection and in situ replacement grafting in seven patients, resection and extra-anatomic bypass in five patients, and resection-ligation in one patient. Four (31%) of 13 patients died within 30 days of operation, three of whom died of rupture. Overall, good results were achieved in five patients (38%), while poor results were noted in the remaining eight patients (62%). The determinants of outcome were aneurysm location or rupture, the presence of established infection, and the virulence of the infecting organism. In 10 (77%) of the 13 aneurysms, Salmonella species, Bacteroides fragilis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa accounted for all deaths, ruptures, and suprarenal aneurysm infections. These data suggest that patients with primary infections of the abdominal aorta or iliac arteries continue to present with advanced infections or aneurysm rupture that result in a high mortality. 
Reduction in the incidence of acute bronchitis by an oral Haemophilus influenzae vaccine in patients with chronic bronchitis in the highlands of Papua New Guinea. Following the administration of a standardized questionnaire, 62 adult patients with chronic bronchitis were enrolled into a double-blind controlled trial of an oral killed Haemophilus influenzae vaccine in the highlands of Papua New Guinea. A 3-day course of vaccine or placebo was given monthly for 3 consecutive months. Participants were monitored weekly over 12 months for acute exacerbations; early morning sputum specimens were collected monthly and during acute exacerbations. Density of colonization by H. influenzae and H. parainfluenzae was determined by standard quantitative and semiquantitative techniques, and the latter method (quadrant score) was used to determine the density of growth of pneumococci. A total of 30 patients received vaccine and 32 placebo. The incidence rate of acute bronchitis in the vaccine group (0.011 episodes/person-weeks) was significantly lower than that in the placebo group (0.021 episodes/person-weeks), but there was no difference between the two groups in the incidence rates of more severe disease. Vaccine efficacy was maximal at times of peak incidence of disease. There was no evidence of a decline in vaccine efficacy for acute bronchitis over the 12-month follow-up period. The number of viable H. influenzae in the sputum declined in both vaccine and placebo groups over the 12-month follow-up period. The average concentration of H. influenzae in the vaccine group fell below that in the placebo group within 1 to 2 months after first immunization and remained so for 12 months, although the difference between the two groups narrowed during the follow-up period. 
Regenerating nodules in hepatic cirrhosis: MR findings with pathologic correlation. To establish clearly the pathologic basis for small low-intensity nodules seen on MR images of the cirrhotic liver, we obtained MR images in 26 patients with cirrhosis in whom partial hepatectomy for hepatoma (15 patients), laparoscopy for cirrhosis (10 patients), or autopsy (one patient) was subsequently performed. Small low-intensity nodules were seen on gradient-echo images with short TEs (10-13 msec) in 13 of the 26 patients. In 12 of these 13 patients, small low-intensity nodules appeared larger and clearer as the TE was prolonged (14-25 msec). On T2-weighted spin-echo images, small low-intensity nodules were seen in 12 of the 13 patients, but not seen as well as on gradient-echo images. Pathologic correlation in these 13 patients revealed that the nodules on the MR images corresponded to iron deposits in regenerating nodules. Small low-intensity nodules were observed only on T2-weighted spin-echo images in two of the remaining 13 patients, in whom microscopic examination of the liver revealed marked inflammatory cell infiltration in the fibrous septa and no iron deposition. We conclude that small low-intensity nodules observed on MR images are caused by iron deposits in regenerating nodules, and that gradient-echo images with short and prolonged TEs are useful to confirm the presence of iron deposits in regenerating nodules. 
Suture length to wound length ratio and the integrity of midline and lateral paramedian incisions. A total of 349 patients were randomized to undergo laparotomy through a lateral paramedian incision with layered closure (n = 137), a midline incision with mass closure (n = 104) or a midline incision using layered closure (n = 108), endeavouring to close the latter two incisions with a measured suture length to wound length ratio of greater than 4:1. After 18 months follow-up, no patient in the lateral paramedian group had developed an incisional hernia whereas 7 of 104 patients undergoing a midline incision with mass closure and 7 of 108 patients undergoing a midline incision with layered closure had incisional hernias (P less than 0.01). The mean suture length to wound length ratios for the three groups were 2.6 (range 1.3-6.2), 5.0 (range 3.0-8.7) and 3.7 (range 2.0-6.3) respectively (P less than 0.0001). The lateral paramedian incision remains superior to the midline incision closed with the mass technique and its integrity is independent of the suture length to wound length ratio. 
Bilateral coronary ostial stenosis associated with aortitis syndrome. A patient with aortitis syndrome showed severe stenosis of the bilateral coronary ostium. We discuss the coronary angiographic findings and the treatment. 
Spontaneous haematomyelia: a necropsy study. Spontaneous haematomyelia (intramedullary spinal haematoma), is an uncommon event. Predisposing conditions have been reported including syringomyelia, pregnancy and delivery, angioma, spinal artery aneurysm, and haemophilia, but only rarely has a pathological evaluation been performed. Two such cases studied at necropsy are reported. In one case, the haematoma was restricted to the cervical spinal cord, while in the second case it extended from the medulla into the lowest thoracic cord segments. In both cases the haematomyelia was fatal. In the first case the clinical course was subacute, but in the other the course was more acute. Careful neuropathological examination showed no apparent cause for the haemorrhages. 
Cancer occurrence in a cohort of patients surgically treated for peptic ulcer. A cohort of 4107 patients treated surgically for peptic ulcer between 1955 and 1960 was followed up to determine the incidence of cancer by record linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry. A total of 930 cases of cancer were observed during 76,634 person-years. Relative risks of cancer were computed by comparison with the recorded cancer incidence in the Danish population. During the first five years after surgery the relative risk of gastric cancer was slightly increased (RR = 1.43), but 5-15 years after the operation the risk was lower than expected (RR = 0.55). Thereafter, the relative risk of gastric cancer increased steadily and increased more than twofold after 25 years. Lung cancer occurred more frequently in the cohort members than expected (RR = 1.66), but the relative risk was independent of time since surgery. Malignancies other than gastric cancer and cancers related to tobacco smoking were close to the expected numbers. The results do not support the findings of a recent British study of similar size in which increased risks were reported for cancer at other sites. 
Interleukin 4 promotes expression of mast cell ICAM-1 antigen. Cell recognition molecules play a crucial role in the regulation of immune cells. We recently found that mast cells (MCs) express leukocyte recognition molecules, including ICAM-1 antigen, a natural ligand of LFA-1. We here report that interleukin 4 (IL-4), a pleiotropic cytokine and mast cell differentiation factor, selectively promotes expression of surface ICAM-1 antigen and ICAM-1 mRNA in human MCs. IL-4 also up-regulates ICAM-1 antigen in cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage but has no effect on ICAM-1 antigen expressed on basophils, fibroblasts, or lymphocytes. The increase in expression of mast cell/macrophage ICAM-1 antigen induced by IL-4 may contribute to the accumulation of leukocytes and facilitate cell-contact-dependent regulation of immune cells in inflamed tissues. 
Visual and quantitative analysis of interictal SPECT with technetium-99m-HMPAO in temporal lobe epilepsy. Interictal 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT images were compared to ictal EEG localization in 51 patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy to determine their usefulness for preoperative seizure focus localization. Both quantified temporal lobe asymmetry and blinded visual detection of temporal lobe hypoperfusion were employed. Visual analysis detected ipsilateral hypoperfusion in 18 (39%) of the 46 patients with a unilateral focus and contralateral hypoperfusion in 3. None of the five patients with bitemporal foci had unilateral hypoperfusion. The positive predictive value of unilateral temporal lobe hypoperfusion was 86% (18/21). Quantified anterior temporal lobe asymmetry, greater than a previously derived normal range, correctly identified the focus in 22 (48%) but gave the wrong side in 5, resulting in a predictive value of 81%. The degree of asymmetry correlated inversely with age of seizure onset, but not with other clinical parameters, histology, or verbal and nonverbal memory. The usefulness of interictal 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT for pre-operative seizure focus localization is limited by low sensitivity when performed with a conventional rotating gamma camera. This suggests that ictal or immediate postictal imaging may be necessary for this purpose. 
Appendicitis in cystic fibrosis. Appendicitis is said to be uncommon and difficult to diagnose in cystic fibrosis. The clinical and radiological features in nine patients with cystic fibrosis who had appendicitis were studied. All but one of the patients had an appendiceal abscess at surgery. Four patients had a delay in diagnosis of greater than three days before the correct diagnosis was made. This delay may have been due to a more indolent presentation or because these patients were initially considered to have distal intestinal obstruction syndrome. Appendicitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis if a contrast enema demonstrates extrinsic compression of the caecum. Ultrasound, computed tomography, and gallium scans were found to be of limited help in our series. 
Vitrectomy for premacular fibroplasia. Prognostic factors, long-term follow-up, and time course of visual improvement. Two hundred seventy eyes with premacular fibroplasia consecutively treated by pars plana vitrectomy and membrane peeling were reviewed. This study is among the largest series with long-term follow-up reported to date. Visual improvement of two or more lines was achieved in 43% of eyes at 6 to 12 months, in 54% at 1 to 2 years, in 60% at 2 to 3 years, and in 58% at 3 to 5 years. Overall, complications occurred in 34 eyes (13%). Cataract progression after vitrectomy was noted in 106 (57%) of phakic eyes at 3 to 5 years, and 43 of these eyes underwent subsequent cataract extraction. Mean time to best visual acuity after vitrectomy was slightly less than 1 year for all eyes unless they had cataract worsening with subsequent cataract extraction (1.9 years). Significant factors affecting visual outcome were: preoperative lens status, visual acuity before vitrectomy, duration of preoperative symptoms of distortion and/or blurred vision, and the occurrence of intraoperative complications. 
Retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section: efficacy in disorders other than Meniere's disease. The retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section has evolved as an effective treatment for intractable vertigo of peripheral vestibular origin when hearing preservation is desired. This report studies the efficacy of retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section for control of vertigo due to causes other than Meniere's disease. This report details our experience with 42 patients with a wide variety of diagnoses. The reduced success rate of retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section in these patients is difficult to evaluate, as very few patients have been analyzed with respect to their specific diagnoses. Of patients who underwent retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section for control of vertigo, 23 patients had uncompensated vestibular neuritis and 19 others had a wide range of other diagnoses. For patients with uncompensated vestibular neuritis (n = 23), the physician record noted that 39% of patients were cured and 30% improved. This compares to our series of patients with Meniere's disease (n = 48), where 94% were cured and 2% improved. The true vestibular abnormality may be less reliably identified in patients with uncompensated vestibular neuritis, contributing to the less effective results. Since the development of a vestibular rehabilitation program, retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section for uncompensated vestibular neuritis has been all but abandoned. Retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section appears to achieve a high cure rate in patients with sensorineural hearing loss associated with their vestibular abnormalities. While retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section is helpful for control of vertigo in some diagnoses, a substantial incidence of persistent postoperative dysequilibrium was noted. 
Study of experimental pain measures and nociceptive reflex in chronic pain patients and normal subjects. This study evaluates (i) the effect of heterotopic chronic pain on various experimental pain measures, (ii) the relationship between experimental pain measures and chronic pain symptomatology assessment, and (iii) the influence of the various pain aetiologies on experimental pain measures. Fifty-three chronic pain patients were compared to 17 pain-free subjects with the following psychophysical and physiological indices: pain threshold (PTh), pain tolerance (PTol), verbal estimation of intensity and unpleasantness (intensity scale, IS; unpleasantness scale, US), threshold for intensity and unpleasantness (ITh and UTh), lower limb RIII nociceptive reflex (RIIITh and RIII frequency of occurrence). Chronic pain syndromes included neuropathic pain (n = 12), iodopathic pain (n = 12), myofascial syndromes (n = 9), headache (n = 9), and miscellaneous pain (n = 11). Chronic pain symptomatology was assessed with a visual analogue scale (VAS), a French MPQ adaptation (QDSA), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Spielberger State Trait Inventory (STAI) and Eysenck Personality Inventory (EPI). No significant difference was observed between chronic pain patients and pain-free control groups and between patient subgroups for PTh, PTol and RIIITh. No significant correlation was found between experimental pain measures and clinical pain, anxiety or depression scores. However, the chronic pain patients had a higher threshold for unpleasantness and judged the suprathreshold stimuli significantly less intense and less unpleasant than the control group. These results are discussed in relation to diffuse noxious inhibitory controls and the adaptation level theory of chronic pain experience. 
Influence of racial origin on admission rates of patients with suspected myocardial infarction in Birmingham. All patients with suspected myocardial infarction admitted to hospital in four Birmingham health districts were studied to test the hypothesis that Asian patients would be overrepresented and Caribbean patients underrepresented compared with the indigenous population. One thousand four hundred and ninety six patients had a final diagnosis of myocardial infarction or severe angina pectoris. The relative risk of admission for Asian men compared with white men aged 45-64 years was 2.65 (95% confidence interval 2.20 to 3.19) and the risk for Asian men was high for both myocardial infarction and ischaemia when analysed separately. The relative risk of admission for Caribbean men compared with white men was 0.53 (95% CI 0.33 to 1.20). The relative risk for Asian women compared with white women in the same age group was 2.58 (95% CI 1.68 to 3.96), but this was due to an excess of admissions diagnosed as ischaemia rather than infarction in the Asian women. For Caribbean and white women the risk of admission was the same, although significantly fewer Caribbean women were admitted with myocardial infarction. The study was undertaken in 1986-87 and population data had to be derived from the 1981 census. The resident population changed in those five years and so the results were recalculated making allowances for these changes in the health districts involved. Based on these data the admission rate for Asian men with suspected myocardial infarction aged 45-64 was nearly twice that for white men (1.8): the relative risk of admission for Asian men compared with white men was 2.04 (95% CI 1.53 to 2.18). 
Biopterin-dependent hyperphenylalaninemia due to deficiency of 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase. We describe the clinical, neurologic, and biochemical findings in 10 patients with 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase (6-PTS) deficiency from seven families, all of whom originate from one large tribe in Saudi Arabia. This deficiency presents with severe, early onset of failure to thrive, neurologic deterioration, and morbidity and mortality secondary to repeated episodes of bronchopneumonia or cardiorespiratory abnormalities. The urinary pterin excretion pattern indicates deficient activity of 6-PTS, which has been confirmed by direct enzyme assay in red blood cells of three patients. We treated our patients with combined use of tetrahydrobiopterin 20 mg/kg/d, L-dihydroxyphenylalanine 15 mg/kg/d, carbidopa 3.75 mg/kg/d, and L-5-hydroxytryptophan 5 mg/kg/d. Neurologic findings improved significantly in all after 5 to 24 months. Although head circumference and weight returned to the lower limit of normal in four, height normalized only in one of seven patients. Despite an unrestricted diet during combined therapy, blood phenylalanine and urinary excretion of neopterin and biopterin returned to normal. 
Alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes and alcoholic pancreatitis. Altered frequencies of alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes have been reported in patients with chronic pancreatitis, suggesting a possible genetic basis for individual susceptibility to this disease. Alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes, with particular regard to alcoholic pancreatitis, were studied. Patients with alcoholic pancreatitis were compared with alcoholic control subjects with no history of pancreatic disease. Serum alpha 1 antitrypsin concentrations were raised in pancreatitis patients sampled within one month of an acute attack of pancreatitis, but otherwise values were similar to those of control subjects. There were no significant differences in alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes between alcoholics with pancreatitis and alcoholic control subjects. This study of alpha 1 antitrypsin phenotypes provides no evidence of an inherited susceptibility to alcoholic pancreatitis. 
Percutaneous coronary mid-infra-red laser angioplasty. A pilot study was performed to determine the safety and efficacy of coronary pulsed mid-infra-red laser angioplasty. The laser was coupled with a novel 2.0 mm multifiber catheter consisting of 37 optical fibers of 150 microns each arranged concentrically around a 0.018-inch central lumen and a soft leading tapered distal tip to maintain coaxial alignment and position plaque in front of fibers. The laser was operated at 500 millijoules/pulse, 3.5 Hz, and 250 microseconds/pulse. Twenty-three patients with stenosis or occlusion of the left anterior descending or right coronary artery were selected for laser treatment. In three patients the catheter could not be positioned against the obstruction. In the 20 remaining patients laser angioplasty increased the diameter of the lumen from 0.3 +/- 0.3 mm to 1.4 +/- 0.3 mm and reduced the stenosis from 91 +/- 8% to 57 +/- 10%. In three patients "stand-alone" laser treatment was sufficient. In 17 patients balloon dilatation further reduced the stenosis to 20 +/- 18%. In two patients who had previously undergone unsuccessful balloon angioplasty with high inflation pressure, laser angioplasty allowed subsequent successful dilatation with low inflation pressure. There were no deaths, perforations, dissections, or arrhythmias. One patient had abrupt reclosure 24 hours after the procedure. Spasm occurred in four patients, and six patients had chest sensations during laser emission. Thus mid-infra-red pulsed coronary laser angioplasty is safe and effective for recanalization of stenosed and totally occluded arteries. The efficacy may be sufficient for "stand-alone" laser treatment. The technique may improve the efficacy of balloon angioplasty in cases of unsuccessful primary dilatation. 
Association of hypovolemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage with computed tomographic scan evidence of raised intracranial pressure. Hypovolemic patients are more likely to suffer delayed cerebral ischemia and infarction after a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Prompt recognition and correction of hypovolemia may improve the outcome. We have identified computed tomographic (CT) scan findings that increase the probability of a patient presenting with hypovolemia soon after an SAH. The plasma volume (PV) of 25 patients admitted within 96 hours of an SAH was measured using radioiodinated serum albumin. The normal PVs were measured in an outpatient setting 6 months later or predicted from their total body water. Nine patients (36%) were found to be hypovolemic, defined as a fall in PV exceeding 10% of the normal PV (mean fall, 18 +/- 2%). Sixteen patients were normovolemic or hypervolemic (mean PV, +9 +/- 2%). The basal cisterns were compressed or obliterated on the CT scans of all hypovolemic patients compared with 12.5% of normovolemic patients (chi-square, 14.52; P less than 0.01). The probabilities of a patient being hypovolemic if the CT scan indicated raised intracranial pressure were high: hydrocephalus, P = 0.80; compression of the basal cisterns, P = 0.82; and compression of the basal cisterns associated with intracerebral hematoma or midline shift, P = 1.00. Patients with an SAH and radiological evidence of raised intracranial pressure should be considered at particular risk for systemic hypovolemia. 
Candidal mediastinitis after surgical repair of esophageal perforation. Candidal mediastinitis, like Boerhaave's syndrome, is uncommon, and both, if treated late or incompletely, frequently result in death. Early recognition and aggressive medical and surgical intervention are the best means to convalescence and cure in both conditions. 
Vaginal and vulvar adenosis. An unsuspected side effect of CO2 laser vaporization. During a 15-month period, September 1984 through January 1986, 10 women who were treated in the Section of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, developed vaginal or vulvar adenosis after CO2 laser vaporization. The indications for therapy were condylomata of the cervix, vagina and vulva refractory to conservative management in 3 patients, vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia in 3, lichen sclerosus in 1 and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia with condylomata on the cervix and vagina in 3. All the patients underwent treatment of the vagina. Most underwent treatment of the cervix, and some underwent treatment of the vulva at various degrees of intensity and depth. During the posttreatment colposcopic follow-up examination, all the patients demonstrated lesions colposcopically consistent with adenosis of the vagina or vulva within the area treated with the CO2 laser. Biopsies of the lesions were performed, adenosis was confirmed histologically, and endometriosis was ruled out histologically. This entity has not been previously associated with CO2 laser vaporization, and its clinical significance is undetermined. Further follow-up is indicated. 
Incidence of ultrasound-detected intrahepatic hematomas due to Tru-cut needle liver biopsy. This is a prospective study in which 120 patients with diffuse liver disease undergoing liver biopsy were followed by serial ultrasounds to determine the incidence of postbiopsy intrahepatic hematoma formation. Forty-five of the patients had a blind biopsy, while the remaining 75 patients had a biopsy performed during laparoscopy. In both groups a 2.0-mm Tru-cut needle was employed. The overall incidence of postbiopsy hematoma formation was 18.3%, with approximately the same results occurring in blind biopsy patients (20%) and laparoscopy-guided biopsy patients (17%). Only two patients had significant pain associated with the hematoma formation (one from each group), one of whom had evidence of intraperitoneal bleed and rebleed. Our results suggest that postbiopsy asymptomatic hematomas occur more frequently than had been generally thought and that laparoscopy-guided biopsy is not safer than blind biopsy. 
Pulmonary dysfunction in surgical conditions of the newborn infant. OBJECTIVE: To describe the pathophysiology of surgical conditions that are associated with respiratory insufficiency in the newborn infant. DESIGN: Survey. SETTING: Newborn ICU in a children's hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-four newborn infants (1 to 28 days old) who required endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation for operative procedures or postoperative ventilatory support. INTERVENTIONS: Flow-volume curves obtained by manual inflation of the lungs, followed by forced deflation by negative pressure, and by passive expiration, under sedation and pharmacologic paralysis. MEASUREMENTS: Deflation flow-volume curves and passive expiratory curves were measured. Pulmonary function testing before and after bronchodilator administration (n = 11) began midway during the study period. Term and preterm groups served as controls. MAIN RESULTS: Forced vital capacity (FVC) was decreased in all groups with surgical disease as follows: abdominal wall defects and necrotizing enterocolitis groups to 48.3% and 62.1% that of preterm, respectively; pulmonary hypoplasia group to 55.5% that of term (p less than .05). Maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC decreased in all groups: abdominal wall defects and necrotizing enterocolitis group, to 36.8% and 37.9% that of preterm, respectively (p less than .05); pulmonary hypoplasia group, 20.0% that of term (p less than .05). The ratio of maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC divided by FVC was significantly decreased in necrotizing enterocolitis and pulmonary hypoplasia groups compared with that of preterm and term groups, respectively, but not in the abdominal wall defects group. Maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC, but not FVC, increased significantly (36%, p less than .05) after bronchodilator nebulization, indicating the presence of airway reactivity. Respiratory system compliance was decreased significantly (p less than .05) in all surgical disease groups compared with the term group. CONCLUSIONS: Bronchial reactivity contributes to decreased maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC, a feature also seen in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome who later develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Babies who require chronic ventilatory support after operation and who have developed reactive airways may benefit from the administration of bronchodilators during postoperative ventilatory management. 
Azathioprine induced liver disease: nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver and perivenous fibrosis in a patient treated for multiple sclerosis. Azathioprine hepatotoxicity has been described mainly in renal transplant recipients. Most reported cases are related to lesions of the venous system of the liver: peliosis hepatis, veno-occlusive disease of the liver, perisinusoidal fibrosis, and nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver. The most common clinical manifestation of these hepatic vascular lesions is portal hypertension. We present a case of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and perivenous fibrosis in a patient receiving azathioprine for multiple sclerosis. Histological abnormalities were similar to those described in renal transplant patients, and azathioprine was the only potential hepatotoxic agent present. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction in multiple symmetrical lipomatosis. Multiple symmetrical lipomatosis is a striking clinical finding associated with a variety of peripheral and central nervous system abnormalities. We describe 4 unrelated patients with evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle. Multiple symmetrical lipomatosis is an additional, albeit unusual, manifestation of the expanding clinical spectrum of mitochondrial diseases. 
Role of endothelium-derived relaxing factor in regulation of vascular tone and remodeling. Update on humoral regulation of vascular tone. In addition to preserving the permselectivity of the vascular wall and providing an antithrombogenic surface, the vascular endothelium contributes importantly to the regulation of vasomotor tone. Indeed, the endothelium participates in the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II; the enzymatic inactivation of several plasma constituents such as bradykinin, norepinephrine, serotonin, and ADP; and the synthesis and release of vasodilator substances such as prostacyclin and the recently discovered endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF). The diffusible EDRF released from the endothelium is nitric oxide or a substance closely related to it such as nitrosothiol. The endothelium also synthesizes and releases vasoconstrictive factors, including products derived from arachidonic acid metabolism and the recently discovered peptide endothelin. An increasing body of evidence from experimental and clinical studies indicates that EDRF and endothelium-derived contracting factors play an important role in vascular physiology and pathology. It has become apparent that the balance of these factors may be a major determinant of systemic and regional hemodynamics. Moreover, through generally opposite effects on growth-related vascular changes, contracting factors such as endothelin and relaxing factors such as EDRF also may be important determinants of the vascular response to injury in various disease states such as atherosclerosis and hypertension. It is clear that the vascular endothelium is a complex and dynamic organ. Understanding endothelium function in normal physiology and disease states is of potential clinical importance and should be the focus of future investigation. 
Comparison of an antiinflammatory dose of ibuprofen, an analgesic dose of ibuprofen, and acetaminophen in the treatment of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee BACKGROUND. The optimal short-term, symptomatic therapy for osteoarthritis of the knee has not been fully determined. Accordingly, we compared the efficacy of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, ibuprofen, given in either an antiinflammatory dose (high dose) or an analgesic dose (low dose), with that of acetaminophen, a pure analgesic. METHODS. In a randomized, double-blind trial, 184 patients with chronic knee pain due to osteoarthritis were given either 2400 or 1200 mg of ibuprofen per day or 4000 mg of acetaminophen per day. They were evaluated after a washout period of three to seven days before the beginning of the study, and again after four weeks of treatment. The major measures of outcome included scores on the pain and disability scales of the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (range of possible scores, 0 to 3), scores on the visual-analogue scales for pain at rest and pain while walking, the time needed to walk 50 ft (15 m), and the physician's global assessment of the patient's arthritis. RESULTS. Seventy-eight percent of the patients completed four weeks of therapy. No significant differences were noted among the three treatment groups with respect to failure to complete the trial because of noncompliance or adverse events. All three groups had improvement in all major outcome variables, and the groups did not differ significantly in the magnitude of improvement in most variables. The mean improvement (change) in the scores on the pain scale of the Health Assessment Questionnaire was 0.33 with acetaminophen (95 percent confidence interval, 0.14 to 0.52), 0.30 with the low dose of ibuprofen (95 percent confidence interval, 0.09 to 0.51), and 0.35 with the high dose of ibuprofen (95 percent confidence interval, 0.13 to 0.57). Side effects were minor and similar in all three groups. CONCLUSIONS. In short-term, symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee, the efficacy of acetaminophen was similar to that of ibuprofen, whether the latter was administered in an analgesic or an antiinflammatory dose. 
Mouse macrophage clones immortalized by retroviruses are functionally heterogeneous. Murine macrophage clones were generated from thymus, spleen, brain, and bone marrow by in vitro immortalization with recombinant retroviruses carrying an avian v-myc oncogene. The cloned cell lines express F4/80 molecules, exert phagocytosis, have nonspecific esterase activity, and express class II molecules after interferon gamma activation. The macrophage clones are diploid and their karyotypes have remained stable for greater than 3 years in culture. After the macrophage clones were activated, their pattern of cytokine production was investigated. Functional heterogeneity in cytokine transcription was demonstrated: one of six liposaccharide-activated macrophages was unable to transcribe interleukin 1 alpha, whereas all of the liposaccharide-activated clones were able to transcribe tumor necrosis factor alpha. Interleukin 6 production was detected in three of six clones. The production of nitrite and tumor necrosis factor alpha as effector molecules of cytotoxicity was detected in all clones, thus showing that a single macrophage can exert more than one cytotoxic mechanism. The results indicate that immortalized and cloned macrophages have a differentially regulated expression of cytokine genes, adding further evidence for the existence of functional heterogeneity among cloned macrophages. This heterogeneity seems to derive from differentiation-related mechanisms rather than from external constraints. 
Does selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract prevent multiple organ failure? An experimental study. Gut bacteria have been incriminated as causing or contributing to generalized sepsis with multiple organ failure in severely ill patients, and selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract of Enterobacteriaceae has been claimed to decrease septic complications in these patients. We studied the effects of selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract on survival and organ function in an experimental model of sepsis with multiple organ failure. Wistar rats were inoculated intraperitoneally with zymosan and randomized into control or treatment groups (trimethoprim or streptomycin sulfate). Selective decontamination effectively prevented bacterial translocation of Enterobacteriaceae. However, only early mortality was decreased, and only so in the streptomycin-treated rats. Selective decontamination did not result in a significantly better condition of the surviving animals on day 12. 
Role of intraoperative ultrasound examination in patients undergoing a Fontan-type procedure. To determine its potential impact on perioperative surgical management intraoperative ultrasound examination (cross sectional imaging, colour flow mapping, pulsed and continuous wave Doppler) was used in 16 consecutive patients undergoing a Fontan-type procedure. Epicardial cross sectional imaging before bypass defined the precise intracardiac morphology in 15 of 16 patients. The preoperative morphological diagnosis was refined in four patients (25%), and this influenced surgical management in two (12%). Epicardial studies after bypass identified seven residual haemodynamic lesions in five patients (three residual intercardiac shunts, one ventricular outflow obstruction, one pulmonary artery obstruction, two mitral valve regurgitation), and led to immediate revision during a second period of bypass in three (18%). In one patient who required early reoperation residual shunting was not detected after bypass by either colour flow mapping or a contrast study. Final intraoperative studies showed a good surgical result in 14 patients (87%). Flow characteristics and flow velocities within the Fontan circulation could be assessed immediately after the patient came off cardiopulmonary bypass by means of combined pulsed wave Doppler and colour flow mapping in 14 of the 16 patients. Cross sectional studies of the left heart after bypass showed no change in ventricular function and allowed monitoring of volume replacement and ventricular filling. Intraoperative ultrasound was a valuable monitoring technique in patients undergoing a Fontan-type procedure. It refined preoperative diagnosis, monitored ventricular function, and identified or excluded residual haemodynamic lesions in most patients. 
Primary cutaneous gamma/delta T-cell lymphoma presenting as disseminated pagetoid reticulosis. The first case of primary gamma/delta cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) with a fatal outcome is reported. The patient had the clinical and histopathologic features of disseminated pagetoid reticulosis, a rare form of CTCL characterized by a strong epidermotropic lymphoid infiltrate. Extensive immuno-cytochemical studies showed that the neoplastic cells were almost exclusively localized in the epidermis, expressed the gamma/delta variant of the T-cell receptor (CD3+, TCR-delta-1+) and were CD5+, CD7+, CD27+, CD29+, CD43+, CD44+, CD45+, CD45RA+, CD54+, CD69+, but beta F1-, Ti gamma a-, BB3-, A13-, CD2-, CD4-, CD8-, CD11a-, CD49d-, CD25-, CD30-, and HLA-DR-. A comparison of our results with those of the literature, which have not included gamma/delta T-cell receptor analysis, suggests that some reported cases of pagetoid reticulosis may have phenotypes similar to our case. Electron microscopy studies demonstrated that the gamma/delta T lymphocytes were villous, containing dense and multivesicular bodies, and formed close contacts with the surrounding keratinocytes, suggesting that these cells should have a role in the skin-associated lymphoid tissue. The proliferating cells in our case might represent the neoplastic counterpart of the recently reported CD2- subset of normal human peripheral blood gamma/delta T lymphocytes. 
Efficacy of (S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)cytosine in various models of herpes simplex virus infection in mice. The phosphonylmethoxyalkyl derivative (S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)cytosine (HPMPC) was evaluated for its in vivo efficacy in several model infections for herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2) and thymidine kinase-deficient (TK-) HSV-1 in mice. In hairless mice infected intracutaneously with HSV-1 or HSV-2, HPMPC completely suppressed all manifestations of the disease (skin lesions, paralysis of the hind legs, and mortality) if it was administered topically at a concentration of as low as 0.1, 0.3, or 1%. Similarly, HPMPC completely suppressed TK- HSV-1 infection in athymic nude mice if it was administered topically at 0.1 or 0.3% or intraperitoneally at 100 or 250 mg/kg/day. HPMPC was also effective against intraperitoneal HSV infection if it was given orally at a dose of 50 mg/kg/day or higher. In mice inoculated intracerebrally with HSV-2, intraperitoneal HPMPC treatment achieved a significant and dose-dependent protection at doses ranging from 5 to 400 mg/kg/day. The protective effect of HPMPC (at 200 mg/kg/day) was accompanied by a complete inhibition of virus multiplication in the brain. In all models of infections studied, the efficacy of HPMPC proved to be superior to that of acyclovir. The most remarkable feature of HPMPC was that a single administration of the compound, even as late as 4 days after infection, conferred significant protection against HSV-1 or HSV-2 infection. Topical or systemic HPMPC treatment is efficacious in murine models of HSV-1, HSV-2, and TK- HSV infections. 
Total excision and extra-anatomic bypass for aortic graft infection. Reports of high mortality and amputation rates following total excision and extra-anatomic bypass for aortic graft infection have prompted the use of alternate approaches including local antibiotics, partial resection, in situ revascularization, and graft excision without revascularization. Experience with aortic graft infection was reviewed to establish current morbidity and mortality rates and evaluate our bias in favor of total excision and extra-anatomic bypass. Aortic graft infection was identified in 32 patients, 8 with aortoenteric fistulas. The mean interval between graft placement and infection was 34 months. History of groin exposure (75%) or multiple prior vascular surgery (50%) was common. Clinical signs included fever and/or leukocytosis (23 patients), false aneurysm (9 patients), graft thrombosis (6 patients), groin infection (11 patients), and gastrointestinal hemorrhage (6 patients). Microbiologic data, available in 26 patients, demonstrated gram-positive organisms in 15 patients and gram-negative in 9. Multiple organisms were seen in 11 patients. Patients were treated by partial removal with (8 patients) or without (4 patients) revascularization or total removal with (18 patients) or without (2 patients) revascularization. Revascularization was by an extra-anatomic route, either simultaneous or staged. Overall morbidity/mortality was less in the revascularized groups (p = 0.01), while late complications were seen only after partial removal (p less than 0.01). The best results were found after total excision with revascularization. No patient in this group experienced late infection or amputation during a mean follow-up of 34 months (range: 1 to 168 months). Complications after total excision and extra-anatomic bypass for aortic graft infection are lower than generally appreciated. This approach should remain the standard to which other approaches are compared. 
Use of life-sustaining care for the elderly. Advanced age has been proposed as one criterion for limiting the use of life-sustaining medical treatment, but very little is known about current practices. We retrospectively studied utilization rates of intensive care (IC) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in admissions to a university hospital over 1 year (n = 9,998), to test whether these treatments are used more selectively for elderly patients. Overall utilization rates did not vary by age. However, among 524 terminal admissions, IC was used for 63% of patients age 35-74 but for only 50% of patients 75 and older (P less than 0.01). Among elderly patients, nursing home residence, diagnosis of advanced malignancy, severe chronic illness, and older age were independent predictors of withholding IC prior to death. Despite more selective use, survival rates were lower for elderly than for younger patients receiving IC (88% vs 78%, P less than 0.001). CPR showed similar but non-significant trends. Intensive care is being used less frequently prior to death for elderly patients, based on diagnosis and functional status as well as chronologic age. 
Paediatric blood pressure and anaesthesia. One percent of children have appreciably and consistently raised arterial blood pressure. A 7-year-old girl admitted for routine tonsillectomy, had unrecognised hypertension which put her at increased risk. Should anaesthetic practice take more note of paediatric blood pressures?. 
Role of intraoperative enteroscopy in obscure gastrointestinal bleeding of small bowel origin. Intraoperative enteroscopy was performed in 12 patients (median age 68 years) with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding probably of small bowel origin, six of whom were men. All the patients were evaluated by routine haematological, coagulation and biochemical profiles, upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopies, visceral angiography and/or isotope scanning. All the patients were anaemic. Visceral angiography was useful on three of the 12 occasions on which it was used and isotope scanning was valuable on eight of the 11 occasions it was used. Nine patients had undergone previous laparotomy. Enteroscopy was performed successfully in all cases, with fresh blood and discrete vascular lesions being the chief findings (10 of 12 cases). Segmental resections (n = 8) and local resections (n = 2) were performed in ten patients, with two patients having more than one laparotomy for rebleeding. Five patients developed postoperative complications and there was an operative death and one late death. Three of the ten surviving patients experienced further rebleeding. Intraoperative enteroscopy is now an essential adjunct to laparotomy for gastrointestinal bleeding which has been localized to the small bowel before operation. 
Changes in body composition and energy expenditure after six weeks' growth hormone treatment. Changes in body composition and energy expenditure were assessed in 15 children after six weeks of human growth hormone (hGH) treatment. Body composition measurements were made by stable isotope labelled water (H2(18)O) dilution, bioelectrical impedance, and skinfold thickness techniques. Energy expenditure was assessed both by indirect ventilated hood calorimetry (resting energy expenditure) and the stable isotope doubly labelled water (2H2(18)O) technique (free living daily total energy expenditure). Mean increases in weight of 0.96 kg and fat free mass of 1.37 kg and a mean decrease in fat mass of 0.41 kg were observed. Significant increases both in resting energy expenditure and free living daily energy expenditure were detected. Absolute changes in fat mass and resting energy expenditure were correlated. The data suggest (i) that the increase in the fat free mass is the most significant early clinical measure of hGH response and (ii) that hGH increases the metabolic activity of the fat free mass. Monitoring such changes may be predictive of the efficacy of hGH in promoting growth. 
Gastric leiomyosarcoma. Prognostic factors and surgical management. Information on gastric leiomyosarcoma, such as important prognostic factors, patterns of disease recurrence, and optimal methods of treatment, are derived from limited patient experience. We address these questions, with specific focus on whether an advantage could be demonstrated for radical resection compared with wide local excision, by retrospectively investigating 53 patients who underwent surgical treatment at Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Abdominal pain and/or gastrointestinal bleeding associated with an intramural or exogastric mass were typical features of this disease. Only tumor size and histologic grade were statistically significant prognostic factors. With analysis of survival curves and patterns of recurrence, neither the addition of lymphadenectomy nor the wider tumor-free margins of a radical gastrectomy seemed superior to the more conservative local excision. Therefore, wide local excision remains the preferred treatment when technically feasible. 
Alpha-thalassemia resulting from deletion of regulatory sequences far upstream of the alpha-globin structural genes. We describe an alpha-thalassemia determinant in which alpha-globin expression is silenced by a deletion located 27 kb 5' to the transcription start site of the alpha 2-globin gene. This alpha-thalassemic determinant, (alpha alpha)MM, is a member of a newly described group of thalassemic mutations resulting from deletion of locus-controlling sequences critical to globin gene expression. 
Thrombogenic microballoon for cerebral aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and carotid cavernous fistula occlusion. Preliminary technical note. A thrombogenic microballoon was developed to overcome the problems of cerebral aneurysm rupture during microballoon inflation and incomplete aneurysm obliteration by microballoons with subsequent fatal rupture. These complications occur in about 35% of reported series with current microballoon embolization techniques. The wall of the new thrombogenic microballoon allows 80% aneurysm occlusion by inflation, thus avoiding mechanical rupture, and at the same time it produces a blood clot in the space remaining between the microballoon and the aneurysm wall. This clot undergoes fibrosis with firm adherence of the microballoon to the aneurysm wall. Experimental evidence is presented to support these conclusions. This thrombogenic microballoon system is also applicable to carotid-cavernous fistulas and arteriovenous malformations. 
Technetium-99m-d,1-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) uptake and glutathione content in brain tumors Technetium-d, HMPAO SPECT was performed in 70 patients suffering from intracerebral tumors of various histologic types (glioma n = 30, meningioma n = 19, metastases n = 10, angioma n = 3, neuroma n = 2, lymphoma n = 2, neurocytoma n = 1, epidermoid n = 1, gliosis n = 1, cholesteatoma n = 1). Tumor classification was histologically verified in all subjects except in two cases with inoperable angiomas. SPECT was performed under resting state conditions with a dual-head rotating camera (SIEMENS ZLC 37) following intravenous injection of 18-25 mCi 99mTc-d, 1-HMPAO. Regional tracer deposit was expressed in terms of a cerebellar index (CBI). Significantly higher regional HMPAO uptake was found in meningiomas when compared with gliomas of different malignancy (ANOVA p less than 0.05). Within gliomas, regional uptake increased with malignancy (n.s.). In 23 patients, a total of 32 tumor specimens were obtained for histochemical analysis of glutathione (GSH) content using high-pressure liquid chromatography. A significant correlation (least square method, p less than 0.001) between CBIs and GSH values was found, supporting the hypothesis that GSH is the predominant factor for the conversion of the lipophilic complex to hydrophilic derivates. 
Doxapram after general anaesthesia. Its role in stopping shivering during recovery. A group of patients who developed postoperative shivering after receiving inhalational anaesthesia were assigned, at random, to receive either doxapram or a placebo under double-blind conditions. A significantly higher proportion of patients stopped shivering after being given doxapram than after the placebo. 
A technique for control of hypertrophic scarring in the central region of the face. Various methods are available for applying pressure to the central portion of the face to reduce hypertrophic scarring after burn injury. Our center uses an elastomer insert with a thermoplastic backing, which is formed over a plaster mold of the patient's face. The insert is worn under a traditional anti-burn scar face mask. We reviewed the records of 26 patients with hypertrophic scarring to the central portion of the face to assess the effectiveness of the insert. Seventeen (65%) of these patients wore the insert until scar maturation. Three of these 17 patients later required reconstructive surgery of the central face. Our findings suggest that pressure to this part of the face may be effective in decreasing hypertrophic scar formation. The insert described in this article is inexpensive and relatively easy to fabricate. 
Normal thymus simulating pericardial disease: diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging. Normal enlargement of the thymus in infancy can often lead to erroneous clinical suspicion of cardiomegaly. Roentgenographic differentiation is not always definitive but echocardiography is generally effective in differentiating cardiac pathology from an enlarged thymus. In this patient, magnetic resonance imaging was necessary to differentiate benign thymic hyperplasia from pericardial or mediastinal pathology. Thymic involution with a severe neonatal illness, followed by thymic rebound, which later subsided, added to the interest and initial confusion in this patient. 
Transseptal catheterization in adults: enhanced efficacy and safety by low-volume operators using a "non-standard" technique. Transseptal catheterization is often not performed because of concerns about morbidity and mortality. The authors present several refinements of this technique that have allowed a series of cases to be done with minimal morbidity or mortality. This was possible despite limited previous experience in this technique and a relatively low-volume of cases. 
Association between disturbances in the immune system and hypertension. For many decades evidence has been accumulating which implicates the immune system in the etiology and pathogenesis of hypertension. There appears to be a strong association between hypertension and immunologic dysfunction in humans and in rats. Patients with severe hypertension have significantly higher levels of serum IgG in comparison with normotensive controls. A positive correlation has been found between serum IgG levels and blood pressure in untreated essential hypertensive patients. In some studies it has been demonstrated that autoantibody levels are higher in both untreated and treated hypertensive patients than in normotensive control subjects. Furthermore, in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), several indices of immune system function have been shown to be depressed. There is also a significant correlation between immune intervention and antihypertensive effects. Short term administration of anti-rat thymocyte serum results in a significant decrease in the arterial pressure of the SHR. Chronic cyclophosphamide treatment prevents the progression of hypertension and significantly reduces its final level in the adult SHR. Neonatal thymic implants from normotensive donor rats delay the development of hypertension and significantly attenuate the level of the hypertensive state in the SHR. Also, thymectomy at an age of 4 weeks delays the development of hypertension in the SHR. The differences in the antihypertensive effectiveness of a variety of immunological manipulations in the SHR may be the result of their different levels of improvement on the severity of the autoimmune process in these rats. 
Klebsiella pneumoniae urinary tract infection complicated by endophthalmitis, perinephric abscess, and ecthyma gangrenosum. We have reported the case of an immunocompromised patient with a K pneumoniae bacteremia admitted with endophthalmitis. The source of the infection was an asymptomatic left renal calculus associated with a perinephric abscess. Persistent bacteremia resulted in the development of ecthyma gangrenosum, which has not previously been associated with Klebsiella spp infection. 
DEGR-factor Xa blocks disseminated intravascular coagulation initiated by Escherichia coli without preventing shock or organ damage. One of the aims of research in the area of thrombosis has been to design an effective anticoagulant that would function in a predictable and direct manner. In evaluating the role of coagulation in sepsis we used factor Xa blocked in the active center with [5-(dimethylamino)1-naphthalenesulfonyl]-glutamylglycylarginyl+ ++ chloromethyl ketone (DEGR-Xa). We infused 1 mg/kg of DEGR-Xa together with LD100 concentrations of Escherichia coli (4 x 10(10) organisms/kg) into five baboons. As controls, we infused E coli alone into five baboons. The inflammatory, coagulant, and cell injury responses to E coli of both the treated and control groups were lethal and were similar in every respect except for the complete inhibition of the consumption of fibrinogen in the DEGR-Xa group. The half life of DEGR-Xa was approximately 10 hours and 2 hours, as determined by isotopic and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, respectively. These results for the first time demonstrate that, although coagulation occurs in E coli sepsis, fibrin formation per se did not influence the lethal outcome in this model. These results also show the effectiveness of DEGR-Xa as an anticoagulant and raise the possibility that it could serve as an alternative to anticoagulants currently in use. 
Symptomatic pancreatic heterotopia treated by local excision. Non-ulcer dyspepsia is a continuing problem and in many cases a precise cause is never identified. We present five patients with an allegedly uncommon condition--pancreatic heterotopia. They were managed by local excision of the tumour and after a mean (range) follow up of 42 (9-80) months all remain free of the original symptoms. 
Influence of parenteral nutrition on leg nitrogen exchange in injured patients. Body N balance, 3-methylhistidine (MEH) excretion, amino acid (AA) plasma concentration, and fluxes across the leg were investigated both during fasting and during parenteral nutrition of injured patients in order to better understand protein-sparing mechanisms induced by metabolic support in the whole body and in skeletal muscle. Patients were randomized to receive 15 or 30 kcal/kg.day coupled with 0.30 g of N either with standard or branch-chain (BC)-enriched AA solutions. During fasting, patients were highly catabolic (N balance -14.7 +/- 1.2 g N/m2.day, MEH excretion 422 +/- 25 mumol/m2.day) and showed a high efflux of AA N from the leg (5.08 +/- 2.1 g N/m2.day) without difference between the groups. During treatment, body N balance (-5.55 +/- 0.88, p less than .001) and MEH excretion (284 +/- 20, p less than .001) were significantly reduced without difference among the groups; also, AA N leg efflux (2.64 +/- 0.47, p less than .001) was reduced. Moreover, considering the effect of calorie load, patients receiving 30 kcal/kg.day showed a lower efflux of total AA N and of some AA considered as markers of muscle protein catabolism, such as phe, lys, met, and glu. The main difference between solutions was in the efflux of BCAA; particularly, val and leu efflux was turned into uptake in the BCAA group. No significant difference among the groups was found in N balance and MEH excretion during treatment. In brief, muscle catabolism was reduced in an amount dependent on glucose and insulin load, but it was not influenced by BCAA supply. Whole body net protein catabolism was reduced through different mechanisms, either an increased visceral N retention or a decreased muscle N loss. However, muscle N loss was never abolished even in the high calorie groups. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of temporomandibular joint after surgical treatment of internal derangement. Sagittal and coronal surface coil magnetic resonance imaging was performed on 21 patients who about 2 years earlier had surgery for temporomandibular joint internal derangement. Surgical procedure included disk repositioning (23 joints) and diskectomy (seven joints). At the time of reimaging, 20 joints showed recurrence of pain and 10 joints were asymptomatic. Extensive fibrous tissue was seen in the joint space and in the joint capsule in 13 of the 20 painful joints, whereas minimal fibrous tissue in the lateral capsule wall was seen in 3 of the 10 nonpainful joints. Fibrous tissue was surgically confirmed in 10 of the painful joints. Disk displacement was seen in 11 of the 23 joints that had surgical disk repositioning. Disk displacement was seen in both painful (9/17) and nonpainful joints (2/6). It was concluded that magnetic resonance imaging is an excellent method for postoperative imaging of the temporomandibular joint and that attention should be directed to the presence or absence and extension of the fibrous tissue in the joint space and in the joint capsule. 
Post-laryngectomy stomal recurrence: tumour implantation or paratracheal lymphatic metastasis? In the treatment of obstructing laryngeal cancer, an association has often been noted between emergency tracheotomy for airway relief and subsequent post-laryngectomy stomal recurrence. It is however unclear whether this is due to tumour implantation in the tracheotomy track, or paratracheal lymph node metastasis. To investigate the pathophysiology of stomal recurrence, the recurrence rate and clinical outcome of 26 cases of T3N0M0 glottic cancer treated with emergency tracheotomy and subsequent laryngectomy were analysed, and compared with 65 stage-matched cases treated with laryngectomy alone. Analysis shows the 'emergency tracheotomy' group to have a very poor prognosis with a higher incidence of recurrence at the stoma, and also in the regional lymph nodes. These findings suggest that paratracheal lymph node metastasis is an important mechanism in the development of stomal recurrence and thus has considerable implications for the prevention of such a recurrence following laryngectomy in the patient presenting with malignant airway obstruction. 
Ventricular tachycardia with congenital ventricular diverticulum. A 24-year-old man presented with symptomatic, recurrent, sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). He was found to have a basal inferior left ventricular diverticulum. His sustained VT was reproduced by programmed electrical stimulation and was unresponsive to procainamide, tocainide, propafenone, and flecainide. Endocardial mapping followed by resection and cryoablative surgery was performed. The patient had only one recurrence after 18 months, with subsequent control with procainamide for over 14 months. 
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies in childhood. I. Biochemical and morphologic investigations. During a 4-year period (1984 to 1988), 50 children referred with manifestations of central nervous system or neuromuscular disease combined with hyperlactatemia were subjected to investigations that aimed to identify and characterize children with mitochondrial disorders. Biochemical and morphologic investigations of quadriceps muscle biopsy tissue were done, including oximetric and spectrophotometric analysis of the respiratory chain function, enzyme histochemistry, electron microscopy, and analysis of mitochondrial DNA. A diagnosis of mitochondrial disease was based on the presence of at least two of five criteria: (1) abnormal results of oximetry, (2) abnormal results of spectrophotometry, (3) enzyme histochemical evidence of cytochrome x oxidase deficiency, (4) deletions or point mutations of mitochondrial DNA, and (5) abundant ultrastructurally abnormal mitochondria. With the combined biochemical and morphologic investigation, 20 of the children were found to have mitochondrial disorders. In an additional 10 children a mitochondrial disorder was neither excluded nor verified. Mitochondrial disorders are thus an important cause of central nervous system and neuromuscular disease in children with hyperlactatemia. 
Predicting the outcomes of electrophysiologic studies of patients with unexplained syncope: preliminary validation of a derived model. PURPOSE: To develop and validate a predictive model that would allow clinicians to determine whether an electrophysiologic (EP) study is likely to result in useful diagnostic information for a patient who has unexplained syncope. PATIENTS: One hundred seventy-nine consecutive patients with unexplained syncope who underwent EP studies at two university medical centers comprised the training sample. A test sample to validate the model was made up of 138 patients from the clinical literature who had undergone EP studies for syncope. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients undergoing EP studies for syncope. The data collector was blinded to the study hypothesis; the electrophysiologist assessing outcomes was blinded to clinical and historical data. Clinical predictor variables available from the history, the physical examination, electrocardiography (ECG), and Holter monitoring were analyzed via two multivariable predictive modeling strategies (ordinal logistic regression and recursive partitioning) for their abilities to predict the results of EP studies, namely tachyarrhythmic and bradyarrhythmic outcomes. These categories were further divided into full arrhythmia and borderline arrhythmia groups. RESULTS: Important outcomes were 1) sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) and 2) bradyarrhythmias, including sinus node and atrioventricular (AV) conducting disease. The results of the logistic regression (in this study, the superior strategy) showed that the presence of organic heart disease [odds ratio (OR) = 3.0, p less than 0.001] and frequent premature ventricular contractions on ECG (OR = 6.7, p less than 0.004) were associated with VT, while the following abnormal ECG findings were associated with bradyarrhythmias: first-degree heart block (OR = 7.9, p less than 0.001), bundle-branch block (OR = 3.0, p less than 0.02), and sinus bradycardia (OR = 3.5, p less than 0.03). Eighty-seven percent of the 31 patients with important outcomes at EP study had at least one of these clinical risk factors, while 95% of the patients with none of these risk factors had normal or nondiagnostic EP studies. In the validation sample, the presence of one or more risk factors would have correctly identified 88% of the test VT patients and 65% of the test bradyarrhythmia patients as needing EP study. CONCLUSION: These five identified predictive factors, available from the history, the physical examination, and the initial ECG, could be useful to clinicians in selecting those patients with unexplained syncope who will have a serious arrhythmia identified by EP studies. 
Stress erosive gastritis. Bleeding from stress erosive gastritis continues to be a potential problem in critically ill and injured patients, but fortunately its incidence has decreased dramatically over the last decade. The explanation for this circumstance is probably multifactorial, but clearly relates to our increased knowledge of its pathophysiology. This understanding has led to the routine use of measures to reduce intragastric acidity (luminal acid being a prerequisite for stress ulcer to occur), coupled with improved techniques for the treatment of shock and the accompanying gastric mucosal hypoperfusion (another prerequisite for the formation of stress ulcers). A number of measures have been used to lower intragastric acidity with H2 receptor blockers emerging as the agents of choice to accomplish this goal. In the unlikely event that bleeding occurs despite these prophylactic measures, aggressive medical management will result in cessation of hemorrhage in over 80% of patients. In those few individuals requiring surgery to control bleeding, no operation has emerged as the recognized procedure of choice. Thus, we believe that a conservative operative approach is indicated in this setting and recommend vagotomy and pyloroplasty with oversewing of the bleeding erosions as appropriate therapy for most patients requiring surgical intervention. 
First-pass nuclear magnetic resonance imaging studies using gadolinium-DTPA in patients with coronary artery disease. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging has been shown to accurately portray cardiac anatomy and function. To investigate the potential of NMR imaging for the assessment of coronary stenosis in patients with chest pain, ultrafast NMR imaging in conjunction with a T1 (longitudinal relaxation time) contrast agent was performed in 17 patients with chest pain who had undergone cardiac catheterization. These included 12 patients with significant coronary artery stenoses and 4 who underwent repeat NMR study after myocardial revascularization. Cardiac images at rest were obtained during rapid intravenous injection of gadolinium-DTPA (0.04 mM/kg). Electrocardiographic-gated images were acquired over 380 ms, with repetitive images obtained every 3 to 4 s. After contrast injection, there was pronounced signal enhancement in the right ventricular cavity, followed by enhancement in the left ventricular cavity and myocardium. Regional myocardium perfused by a diseased vessel demonstrated a lower peak signal intensity (p = 0.001) and lower rate of signal increase (p = 0.001) than did myocardium perfused by coronary arteries without stenosis. Repeat NMR study after revascularization showed an increase in peak signal intensity (p less than 0.002). These results demonstrate the clinical potential of dynamic gadolinium-DTPA-enhanced NMR imaging for the assessment of coronary artery disease in patients with chest pain. In combination with anatomic and functional NMR imaging, this technique has the potential to provide a comprehensive noninvasive cardiac evaluation of patients with suspected coronary artery disease. 
Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide in young normotensive subjects with a family history of hypertension and in young hypertensive patients. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) behavior was evaluated in 26 untreated essential hypertensives, 21 normotensives, and 20 normotensives with hypertensive heredity under normal sodium intake (120 mEq of Na+/day). All subjects were men, mean age 22.1 +/- 1.9 years. Plasma ANP was evaluated by radioimmunoassay on samples collected in supine position upon waking and again after 1 h of orthostatism. Resulting data showed that ANP in hypertensives (supine = 44.5 +/- 19.4 pg/mL, orthostatism = 24.1 +/- 11.6 pg/mL) was at higher levels than in controls (supine = 38.3 +/- 19.4 pg/mL, orthostatism = 19.9 +/- 10.6 pg/mL) or in normotensives with hypertensive heredity (supine = 42.1 +/- 16.8 pg/mL, orthostatism = 23.2 +/- 10.8 pg/mL). Mean ANP level was higher in the latter group than in the control group (supine = +9%; orthostatism = +14.2%). In conclusion, plasma ANP is raised in young essential hypertensives, resulting in slightly elevated levels in normotensives with hypertensive heredity. 
Birthweight ratio revisited. In order to test the hypothesis suggested in a recent report that the birthweight ratio might be a useful predictor of several important clinical outcome measures in babies of less than 31 weeks' gestation, we examined the association between the birthweight ratio and aspects of both short and long term outcome in 436 Leeds babies of less than 31 weeks' gestation. Unlike the report, and contrary to what we had expected, we were unable to find any significant association between birthweight ratio and length of time on the ventilator, mortality, neurological outcome, or intellectual outcome. 
Dideoxyinosine in children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection. BACKGROUND. 2',3'-Dideoxyinosine (ddl) is a dideoxynucleoside with potent activity in vitro against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In initial clinical trials in adults, ddl showed evidence of antiretroviral activity with little hematologic toxicity. METHODS. We conducted a phase I-II study in 43 children with symptomatic (CDC class P-2) HIV infection. Of these children, 16 (median age, 10 years) had previously received zidovudine, and 27 (median age, 2.6 years) had not. ddl was administered orally in three divided doses totalling 60, 120, 180, 360, or 540 mg per square meter of body-surface area per day for 24 weeks. Eight of the 43 patients did not complete 24 weeks of ddl: 6 died, 1 was withdrawn because of progressive disease, and the other because of toxicity. RESULTS. After oral administration, ddl was rapidly absorbed, although its bioavailability varied greatly among patients. Pancreatitis developed in two children, one receiving ddl at each of the two highest doses. The median CD4 cell count in 38 patients with paired counts increased from 0.218 x 10(9) per liter (218 per cubic millimeter) at base line to 0.327 x 10(9) per liter (327 per cubic millimeter) after 20 to 24 weeks (P = 0.001). Those with CD4 cell counts above 0.1 x 10(9) per liter (100 per cubic millimeter) at base line were significantly more likely to improve in this respect. The median levels of p24 antigen (in 27 patients with detectable levels at entry) declined from 272 pg per milliliter at base line to 77 pg per milliliter at 20 to 24 weeks (P = 0.005). The plasma concentration of ddl correlated significantly with both the degree of decline in the p24 antigen and the degree of improvement in IQ score. Improvement in clinical and immunologic measures occurred in both the previously untreated patients and in those who had been treated with zidovudine. CONCLUSIONS. Dideoxyinosine was well tolerated and showed promising antiretroviral activity in HIV-infected children. The correlation between the clinical response and the plasma concentration of ddl indicates that bioavailability is an important consideration in the use of ddl to treat HIV infection and that individualized pharmacokinetic monitoring and dose adjustment may be important for optimal activity. 
Dietary risk factors associated with acute and persistent diarrhea in children in Karachi, Pakistan. Feeding practices may have an important impact on diarrheal diseases in developing countries. This study evaluated feeding practices in three groups of male children aged 6-36 mo: 100 with persistent diarrhea (PD), 79 with acute diarrhea (AD), and 86 in a comparison group (CG). The children came from comparably poor socioeconomic settings in Karachi, Pakistan, except that the literacy rates were higher in mothers of the CG (P = 0.0001). Although greater than 95% of all infants were breast-fed, delayed initiation of breast-feeding was more common in the diarrhea groups. Children with diarrhea were also more likely to receive supplemental milk (PD = 92%, AD = 87%) than were children in the CG (69%, P less than 0.05). Feedings were not withheld during diarrhea but changes were made in the nature of foods given. These results indicate that several feeding practices may be important risk factors for diarrhea in Pakistan. 
Optic nerve sheath decompression for the treatment of progressive nonarteritic ischemic optic neuropathy. We performed optic nerve sheath decompression on four patients (five eyes) with visual loss secondary to nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Four of the five eyes had marked improvement in visual function after the operation. Optic nerve sheath decompression is an effective treatment for patients with nonarteritic ischemic optic neuropathy and progressive visual loss. 
Resection of a granular cell tumor at the hepatic confluence. A precarious location for a benign tumor. Granular cell tumors are lesions that account for less than 10 per cent of benign biliary tumors and only 1 per cent occur in the biliary tract. Since the first description, 45 other cases have been described to which we add a case. In reviewing the literature, a striking predominance in black females is evident. The most frequent location of these tumors in the biliary tree appears to be the common bile duct (50%), followed by the cystic duct (37%), the hepatic ducts (15%), and the gallbladder (4%). Most patients have been treated with resection followed by restoration of biliary continuity using biliary enteric diversion. In the case presented, the tumor was located at the hepatic confluence with extension into the hepatic substance requiring segmental duct cholangiojejunostomy after resection. This resulted in fulminant sepsis and death despite adequate preoperative biliary decompression and the lack of signs or symptoms of infected bile. Alternative forms of management in the treatment of this benign condition at this location are discussed. 
Advantages of an immunohistochemical estrogen receptor assay. Immunohistochemical and biochemical assays for estrogen and progesterone receptors were done on 20 breast carcinomas, and results were correlated with various histologic features. The slide-based immunohistochemical technique demonstrated several distinct advantages relative to the tissue homogenization required by the traditional biochemical assay. With the use of frozen tissue sections, the immunohistochemical technique permitted direct visualization of antireceptor binding to tumor cells. Receptor staining of reactive stroma, necrotic tumor, and intermingled benign parenchyma was easily distinguished from receptor staining of the actual carcinoma. This separation is not possible with the biochemical assay. In addition, in situ and invasive components and different morphologic subtypes were evaluated independently. Receptor content of the most aggressive portion of the neoplasm is likely to have the greatest clinical relevance and prognostic significance. Careful correlation of histochemical scores with biochemical assay concentrations is needed to permit the application of this technique to patients entering cancer treatment protocols. 
Use of adenosine echocardiography for diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Two-dimensional echocardiography combined with exercise is sensitive and specific in the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) by demonstrating transient abnormalities in wall motion. Frequently, however, patients cannot achieve maximal exercise because of various factors. Pharmacologic stress testing with intravenous adenosine was evaluated as a means of detecting CAD in a noninvasive manner. Patients with suspected CAD underwent echocardiographic imaging and simultaneous thallium 201 single-photon emission computed tomography during the intravenous administration of 140 micrograms/kg/min of adenosine. An increase in heart rate, decrease in blood pressure, and increase in double product were observed during adenosine administration. Initial observations revealed that wall motion abnormalities were induced by adenosine in areas of perfusion defects. The adenosine infusion was well tolerated, and symptoms disappeared within 1 to 2 minutes after termination of the infusion. Therefore preliminary observations suggest that adenosine echocardiography appears to be useful in the assessment of CAD. 
Treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts with octreotide. Pancreatic pseudocysts are a common and painful complication of chronic pancreatitis. Seven patients (six male, one female; mean age 49.9 years) with chronic pancreatitis complicated by pseudocysts and persistent pain were treated with the pancreatic anti-secretory drug octreotide for 2 weeks. Octreotide caused no notable changes in the size of the pseudocysts of three patients. In the remaining four patients, the pseudocysts decreased in size by a mean of 42% (range 29-52%), and pain disappeared completely. These findings suggest a role for octreotide in the treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts. 
An open label study of oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) for the treatment of breakthrough cancer pain. Ten patients with advanced cancer and breakthrough pain between the ages of 39 and 78 received oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (10-15 micrograms/kg) 4 or 5 times each over 2 days (42 total administrations) in an open study. Baseline vital sign and rating scale results did not vary over administrations, except for heart rate which showed an 8 beats/min decrease over 4 administrations. Heart rate and oxygen saturation did not vary significantly over 120 min of evaluation, and minimal changes in blood pressure and respiration rate were found. Significant reduction in pain scores as measured by a pain descriptive scale, the McGill-Melzack scale, and a numeric (VAS) scale were seen at all evaluations from 5 to 120 min. Average time to onset of pain relief was 9.5 min after administration. Wellbeing was significantly increased at all evaluations. Activity level as recorded by the investigator was significantly reduced from 10 to 30 min after administration, however, activity level as reported by the patient was significantly increased at 5 min and from 60 to 120 min after OTFC administration. There were no significant adverse effects. 
Influence of calcium administration on the short-term hemodynamic and anti-ischemic effects of nifedipine. This prospective study investigated whether pretreatment with intravenously administered calcium would influence the effect of nifedipine on rest hemodynamics and treadmill performance in patients with ischemic heart disease. Seventeen patients were studied after undergoing a qualifying treadmill exercise test that revealed ST segment depression indicative of ischemic heart disease. Study subjects performed three additional treadmill tests as part of the protocol. One treadmill test was obtained from each patient to provide baseline measurements without a preceding intravenous infusion and in the absence of all antianginal drugs including nifedipine; two additional exercise tests were preceded by an infusion and 10 mg of bite-and-swallow nifedipine. The infusions, administered in a randomized, double-blind, crossover fashion, consisted of either 10 ml of 10% calcium chloride (13.6 mEq) in 50 ml of 5% dextrose in water or 5% dextrose in water alone. Rest systolic blood pressure (134 +/- 4.6 mm Hg) was unchanged after placebo infusion (135 +/- 4.6 mm Hg) but decreased to 124 +/- 4.1 mm Hg (p less than 0.01) 25 min after nifedipine administration. Rest systolic blood pressure increased after calcium infusion (from 139 +/- 4.3 to 148 +/- 4.8 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and then decreased significantly 25 min after nifedipine administration to 135 +/- 4.2 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). Despite a decrease at the time of peak nifedipine effect after either infusion, systolic blood pressure was significantly lower after administration of nifedipine alone than after administration of calcium and nifedipine (124 +/- 4.1 vs. 135 +/- 4.2 mm Hg, p less than 0.01). 
Neurophysiologic assessment of the anal sphincters. One hundred twenty consecutive patients with either fecal incontinence (60 patients), chronic constipation (41 patients), or idiopathic intractable pelvic pain (19 patients) were prospectively assessed. Patients underwent concentric needle electromyography (EMG), bilateral pudendal nerve terminal motor latency evaluation, anorectal manometry, and cinedefecography. The most common EMG finding in patients with fecal incontinence was decreased recruitment of motor units with squeezing and polyphasic motor unit potentials; these are consistent with an injury pattern. The most common EMG finding in the constipated patients was paradoxical puborectalis contraction. This latter abnormality was also a frequent finding in patients with rectal pain, as was prolongation of pudendal nerve latency. Paradoxical puborectalis contraction was diagnosed more frequently with EMG than with cinedefecography. Inter-examination correlation was best in the incontinent group between EMG and manometry. Cinedefecography had poor correlation with EMG in all patient groups but was valuable in the detection of additional pathology such as rectoanal intussusception and anterior rectocele. Electromyography including pudendal nerve terminal motor latency assessment is a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of disorders of evacuation. The information it yields is complementary to that offered by more routine physiologic examinations. 
Prenatal diagnosis of the neurofibromatoses. This article reviews the application of genetic linkage analysis to molecular prenatal diagnosis using the neurofibromatoses as an example. The clinical manifestations and diagnostic criteria for these diseases are reviewed first, followed by a brief description of the principles underlying genetic linkage analysis, the detection of DNA polymorphisms and their application to the cloning of the NF1 gene. The last two sections review the molecular diagnosis and some of the problems in prenatal genetic counseling for NF1. 
Ventriculoatrial intervals during narrow complex reentrant tachycardia in children. Ventriculoatrial (VA) intervals during narrow complex tachycardia were measured in a pediatric population. The VA intervals were similar to those in adults but were slightly shorter. In the pediatric subjects values less than 60 msec excluded the participation of an accessory pathway in the tachycardia circuit. Three out of 11 patients with atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) had VA values greater than or equal to 70 msec, while 5 of 28 patients with orthodromic reciprocating tachycardia (ORT) had values less than or equal to 70 msec. Using a cut-off value of 70 msec as the sole criteria to distinguish between ORT and AVNRT could lead to errors in classification of the underlying mechanism of the tachycardia. 
A familial coincidence of pseudotumor cerebri and communicating hydrocephalus. A family in which the mother and two of four daughters had a diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri and one son developed communicating hydrocephalus is described. The other two daughters both have a long history of headaches but no signs of intracranial hypertension. The argument is advanced that there exists a defect of cerebrospinal fluid absorption common to pseudotumor cerebri and communicating hydrocephalus. 
Physical activity and reduced occurrence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus BACKGROUND. Physical activity is recommended by physicians to patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), because it increases sensitivity to insulin. Whether physical activity is effective in preventing this disease is not known. METHODS. We used questionnaires to examine patterns of physical activity and other personal characteristics in relation to the subsequent development of NIDDM in 5990 male alumni of the University of Pennsylvania. The disease developed in a total of 202 men during 98,524 man-years of follow-up from 1962 to 1976. RESULTS. Leisure-time physical activity, expressed in kilocalories expended per week in walking, stair climbing, and sports, was inversely related to the development of NIDDM. The incidence rates declined as energy expenditure increased from less than 500 kcal to 3500 kcal. For each 500-kcal increment in energy expenditure, the age-adjusted risk of NIDDM was reduced by 6 percent (relative risk, 0.94; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.90 to 0.98). This association remained the same when the data were adjusted for obesity, hypertension, and a parental history of diabetes. The association was weaker when we considered weight gain between the time of college attendance and 1962 (relative risk, 0.95; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.90 to 1.00). The protective effect of physical activity was strongest in persons at highest risk for NIDDM, defined as those with a high body-mass index, a history of hypertension, or a parental history of diabetes. These factors, in addition to weight gain since college, were also independent predictors of the disease. CONCLUSIONS. Increased physical activity is effective in preventing NIDDM, and the protective benefit is especially pronounced in persons at the highest risk for the disease. 
Isolation of a human DNA sequence which spans the fragile X. To identify the sequences involved in the expression of the fragile X and to characterize the molecular basis of the genetic lesion, we have constructed yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) containing human DNA and have screened them with cloned DNA probes which map close to the fragile site at Xq27.3. We have isolated and partly characterized a YAC containing approximately 270 kb of human DNA from an X chromosome which expresses the fragile X. This sequence in a yeast artificial ring chromosome, XTY26, hybridizes to the two closest DNA markers, VK16 and Do33, which flank the fragile site. The human DNA sequence in XTY26 also spans the fragile site on chromosome in situ hybridization. When a restriction map of XTY26, derived by using infrequently cutting restriction enzymes, is compared with similar YAC maps derived from non-fragile-X patients, no large-scale differences are observed. This YAC, XTY26, may enable (a) the fragile site to be fully characterized at the molecular level and (b) the pathogenetic basis of the fragile-X syndrome to be determined. 
Hepatitis C virus infection and chronic liver disease in children with leukemia in long-term remission. Antibody to the recently identified hepatitis C virus (HCV) was investigated in sera of 50 leukemic children who had chronic liver disease (CLD), observed for 1 to 12.6 years after therapy withdrawal. All patients were tested for anti-HCV at regular intervals: Ortho-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test was performed in all cases. Reactive sera were also tested by recombinant immunoblotting assay to define the specificity of the results obtained by ELISA. Twelve cases (24%) were persistently positive (group A), 11 (22%) were transiently anti-HCV+ positive (group B), and 27 (54%) were negative. Mean SGPT peak during follow-up was significantly higher in group A (P = .014, A v B and P less than .00001, A v C). SGPT normalized off-therapy in 1 of 12 cases (group A), 10 of 11 (group B), and 19 of 27 (group C) (P = .0004, A v B and P = .012, A v C). Accordingly, liver histology, available in 37 patients, showed signs of chronic hepatitis in all patients in group A while most patients in group B and C had less severe liver lesions. These results indicate that HCV plays a significant role in the etiology of chronic hepatitis in leukemic patients and that persistent anti-HCV activity correlates with a more severe CLD, which could jeopardize the final prognosis of children cured of leukemia. 
Antihypertensive effect of isradipine on blood pressure at rest and during exercise. After three months of treatment with isradipine, 20 patients with mild hypertension had reduced their resting blood pressure (BP) from 157/103 to 132/85 mm Hg and their BP during isometric exercise from 192/124 to 166/105 mm Hg. The isradipine dose necessary to normalize BP (both at rest and post-exercise) was 1.25 mg twice daily (2 x 1/2 tablet) in 50% of patients and 2.5 mg twice daily (2 x 1 tablet) in 25%. In the remaining 25% of patients, isradipine was combined with 1 mg/day bopindolol. There were virtually no accompanying side effects; in particular, reflex tachycardia was negligible or absent. It is concluded that isradipine is a reliable antihypertensive treatment in mild-to-moderate hypertension. 
Diagnostic imaging of musculoskeletal infection. Roentgenography; gallium, indium-labeled white blood cell, gammaglobulin, bone scintigraphy; and MRI. A great deal of effort has been made to evaluate and define the role of various diagnostic imaging techniques in various clinical settings that complicate the diagnosis of osteomyelitis. Except possibly in neonates, bone scintigraphy remains generally recommended when there has been no previous osseous involvement. In other cases of chronic disease, previous fracture or trauma, prosthesis, and diabetic foot, In-WBC scintigraphy is generally accepted as an appropriate imaging technique. MRI will play an increasingly important role in diagnosing osteomyelitis and may prove to be an important adjunct in these cases. Research continues to improve our current diagnostic armamentarium. In-IgG appears to avoid practical deficiencies encountered with 67Ga and In-WBC; it remains to be seen what role this agent will play in routine clinical practice. All agents to date image inflammation, not infection, and most require delayed imaging sessions, usually at 24 hours. These shortcomings necessitate further research to develop new radiotracers that can provide useful images within several hours and that are specific for infection, perhaps ultimately delineating the particular microorganism involved. 
Meningiomas of the lateral skull base: neurotologic manifestations and patterns of recurrence. The eradication of basicranial meningiomas by traditional surgical techniques is often hindered by neoplastic entanglement with critical neurovascular structures. Apparent, complete tumor resection is frequently followed by extensive, yet clinically silent, recurrent disease with local infiltration of bone, cranial nerves, and brain. Fifty-five cases of sphenoid wing or parasellar meningioma were analyzed to identify clinical manifestations suggestive of early tumor recurrence. Regrowth patterns were then defined according to preoperative radiographic and intraoperative surgical findings. Medial tumor regrowth, involving the cavernous sinus, caused neurapraxia of cranial nerves III, IV, or VI, with associated diplopia or ophthalmoplegia. Inferior (caudal) regrowth of disease involved the infratemporal fossa, pterygomaxillary space, or paranasal sinuses by bony erosion of the middle cranial fossa floor or through natural anatomic foramina and fissures. Such inferior extension was manifested clinically by facial hypesthesia, trismus, and referred otalgia caused by trigeminal nerve involvement and by autophony or serous otitis media related to eustachian tube obstruction. Posterior tumor regrowth occurred along the petrous bone and horizontal carotid canal, resulting in internal auditory meatus erosion and cerebellopontine angle extension with associated tinnitus, hearing loss, unsteadiness, and occasional facial twitching. While the clinical and radiographic evaluations of any patient with a suspected recurrent basicranial meningioma are critical in planning the method and magnitude of reoperation, an understanding of potential recurrence patterns can be used in devising more extensive, combined approaches that may allow complete tumor extirpation at the initial surgical intervention. 
Provocation of transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations by meals in patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux. The effect of a meal on the rate of transient lower esophageal sphincter (LES) relaxations and patterns of gastroesophageal reflux was investigated in 49 patients referred for evaluation of gastroesophageal reflux. Esophageal motility and pH were recorded concurrently before and after a standard meal. In the patients with symptomatic reflux, the meal induced a four- to sevenfold increase in the gastroesophageal reflux through two mechanisms: a four- to fivefold increase in the rate of transient LES relaxations and an increase in the proportion of transient LES relaxations accompanied by reflux from 47% to 68%. Overall the rate of reflux episodes that occurred by mechanisms other than transient LES relaxation did not increase significantly. An exception to these findings were those in six patients with chronically absent basal LES pressure in whom transient LES relaxations could not be scored. In these patients, reflux increased postprandially through mechanisms other than transient LES relaxation. These findings confirm the pivotal importance of transient LES relaxations in the pathogenesis of gastroesophageal reflux. 
Atrial antitachycardia pacing in children and young adults. Atrial antitachycardia pacing was tested in 23 children and young adults. The majority of these patients had had operative repair of congenital cardiac defects and had both bradycardia and tachycardia. Pacemakers were usually implanted by the transvenous technique using bipolar leads. In each patient it was possible to find a tachycardia termination algorithm that successfully converted the tachycardia. In some patients very complex algorithms were necessary. In each patient it was also possible to find an algorithm that successfully differentiated the abnormal tachycardia from sinus tachycardia. Twelve patients required no antiarrhythmic drugs after pacemaker implantation, while 10 patients required one drug and one patient required two drugs. Eight of 23 patients had symptomatic tachycardias that required reprogramming the pacemaker to a different tachycardia termination sequence. Seven patients required reoperations, five for adapter problems and two for infection or erosion. Cardiac function improved in 15 of the 23 patients. Antitachycardia pacing is a viable option for management of tachycardias in children and young adults. 
Prevalence of Raynaud's phenomenon in Japanese males and females. In order to estimate the prevalence rate of Raynaud's phenomenon in the Japanese population, 1875 males and 1998 females were interviewed by medical doctors, aided by a typical photograph of Raynaud's phenomenon. The prevalence rates were 3.3% in males and 2.5% in females. Approximately 60% of the male cases of Raynaud's phenomenon were presumed to be caused by vibration syndrome or trauma to the fingers. Prevalence rates excluding these two causes were 1.2% in males and 2.2% in females. The male:female ratio of these prevalence rates was 1:1.9. The prevalence rate for males increased with age, while that for females tended to decrease. The male:female ratio for subjects under 50 years old was 1:5.2 and for those 50 years old or older the ratio was 1:1.1. The prevalence rates of symptoms limited to finger whitening, excluding cases caused by vibration syndrome or trauma, were 1.0% in males and 1.8% in females. Both of these prevalence rates were lower than those of male and female Caucasians. 
The physical examination in acute cardiac ischemic syndromes. The physical examination in acute cardiac ischemia remains a valuable tool when done with skill. Ischemia without infarction alters cardiac function, and the physical examination yields findings that reflect these changes. Ischemia with infarction alters structure and function, resulting in physical findings that are usually more dramatic and of longer duration, sometimes permanent. Carefully done, the physical examination provides information that helps in management of the immediate course, predicts prognosis, and allows for better interpretation of cardiovascular tests, both invasive and noninvasive. 
Phase I/II study of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin for treatment of metastatic adenocarcinoma. Leucovorin enhances the cytotoxicity of fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with colorectal cancer and may increase the efficacy of combination chemotherapy regimens containing 5-FU. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of 5-FU with leucovorin for use in combination with cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin, we conducted a phase I/II trial in 20 patients. The doses of leucovorin (200 mg/m2 on days 1-5), cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 on day 1), and doxorubicin (40 mg/m2 on day 1) were held constant, while the dose of 5-FU was escalated in cohorts of patients beginning at 150 mg/m2 on days 1-5. Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks. Significant mucositis, diarrhea, and myelosuppression were infrequently observed in patients receiving up to 250 mg/m2 5-FU on days 1-5. In contrast, at a dose of 300 mg/m2 on days 1-5, three of six patients had granulocyte count nadirs of less than 500/microL during the first cycle of therapy, and two of these three had platelet counts of less than 25,000/microL. In addition, two patients treated at this dose had significant mucosal toxic effects, and three had insufficient recovery to permit a second course by day 22. Among 14 patients with assessable breast cancer, there were one complete and nine partial responses (response rate 71%). Leucovorin modulation of 5-FU can be safely incorporated into combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin and provides a highly active regimen for treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Further study will be required to determine whether the addition of leucovorin significantly enhances the activity of this regimen. 
Deep vein thrombosis: effect of graduated compression stockings on distension of the deep veins of the calf. The mechanisms by which graduated compression stockings prevent deep vein thrombosis are not completely understood. Recent work has suggested that venous distension plays a role in initiating the process. Our previous work has shown that the deep veins of the lower limb distend in patients undergoing surgical procedures. We have investigated 40 patients receiving surgical treatment on the abdomen or neck. A medial gastrocnemius vein was studied using ultrasound imaging during the operations. In half the patients a graduated compression anti-embolism stocking was applied to the limb under study at the start of the operation, immediately after initial measurements of vein diameter. The median vein diameter in both groups was the same at the start of the operative procedures (control, 2.6 mm, interquartile range 2.1-3.3 mm; stocking, 2.6 mm, interquartile range 2.1-3.7 mm). After application of a stocking the median diameter in this group fell to 1.6 mm (interquartile range 1.3-2.8 mm) and then decreased slightly at the end of the operation. In the control group the vein diameter increased to 2.9 mm (interquartile range 2.3-4.0 mm) during the operative procedure. 
Right coronary artery disease. Pathophysiology, clinical relevance, and methods for recognition. Among the clinical manifestations of ischemic heart disease, right coronary artery (RCA) disease offers a wide variety of right and left ventricular ischemic involvement, including prevalent right ventricular dysfunction and severe cardiac failure. Whether the right ventricular impairment is dependent primarily on ischemia of the right ventricle or requires a concomitant left ventricular dysfunction remains debatable. To assess the pathophysiology and clinical relevance of RCA-related ischemia, a systematic study of patients with single RCA disease (either vasospastic angina at rest or typical stable angina) was undertaken by radionuclide ventriculography. A high incidence of ischemia-induced right ventricular dysfunction was observed (93% and 95% in angina at rest and on effort, respectively), either alone or associated with left ventricular impairment. These results were compared with those obtained in a control population with isolated left anterior descending artery disease and either primary or secondary angina pectoris. We infer that the impairment of the right ventricle was related primarily to right ventricular ischemia and that left ventricular dysfunction alone did not cause an important depression of right ventricular systolic function. In conclusion, the clinical manifestations of RCA disease can be protean; the right ventricle can be the target of ischemia, and recognition of its impairment poses diagnostic problems. Radionuclide ventriculography and two-dimensional echocardiography, together with stressors of coronary flow reserve, are reliable techniques for assessing RCA-related ischemia. 
Unrecognized stenosis by angiography documented by intravascular ultrasound imaging. This report documents how intravascular ultrasound imaging was used to diagnose a short "napkin-ring" stenosis that was missed by coronary angiography. Intravascular ultrasound revealed a lumen of 2.6 x 2.5 mm in diameter and 5.0 mm2 in cross-sectional area, with a residual atheroma that occluded 63% of available cross-sectional area at the stenosis. 
Reduction in the frequency of ventricular late potentials after acute myocardial infarction by early thrombolytic therapy. Ventricular late potentials are strong predictors of arrhythmic events after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). To assess the effect of intravenous thrombolysis on the incidence of ventricular late potentials, 223 consecutive patients surviving a first AMI were included in the present study: 59 patients (53 men, 6 women, mean age +/- standard deviation 55 +/- 10 years) received intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (100 mg over 3 hours, group A) and 164 patients (123 men, 41 women, mean age 61 +/- 11 years) received conventional medical treatment (group B). A time-domain signal-averaged electrocardiogram and a high-resolution beat-to-beat recording (gain 10(6), filters 100 to 300 Hz) were performed at 10 +/- 3 days after AMI. There was no difference between group A and B patients in terms of AMI location (anterior in 28 of 59 vs 80 of 164, difference not significant [NS]), mean left ventricular ejection fraction (55 +/- 10 vs 55 +/- 13%, NS), or presence of heart failure (New York Heart Association class III or IV in 12 of 59 vs 40 of 164, NS). The incidence of ventricular late potentials was 10% (6 of 59) in group A and 24% (39 of 164) in group B (p less than 0.05). Among the 146 patients who underwent coronary arteriography, the incidence of ventricular late potentials was 13% (10 of 80) in patients with a patent infarct-related artery and 26% (17 of 66) in patients with an occluded infarct-related artery (p less than 0.05). 
A phase IA trial of sequential administration recombinant DNA-produced interferons: combination recombinant interferon gamma and recombinant interferon alfa in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. This study investigated the effects of sequentially administered recombinant interferon gamma (rIFN gamma) and recombinant interferon alfa (rIFN alpha) in 36 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). rIFN alpha was subcutaneously administered daily for 70 days at dosages that varied (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 x 10(6) U/m2) across four cohorts of patients. Within each cohort of patients receiving a given dose of rIFN alpha, three subsets of patients received either 30, 300, or 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. rIFN gamma was administered intravenously for 5 days every third week, 6 hours prior to administration of rIFN alpha. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) included constitutional symptoms, leukopenia, nephrotic syndrome with acute renal failure, hypotension associated with death, and congestive heart failure. DLT was related more often to the rIFN alpha dose level than to rIFN gamma dose level. Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 10 x 10(6) U/m2 rIFN alpha and 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. Six patients failed to complete a minimum of 21 days of therapy due to toxicity or rapid progression of disease. Clinical responses were seen in eight of 30 assessable patients. Two patients experienced complete remission and have remained in complete remission 20+ and 22+ months. An additional six patients have shown partial responses for 4 to 18+ months. One patient in partial remission continues to show slow regression of pulmonary and liver lesions off therapy with rIFNs. Clinical responses have remained durable for patients with complete remissions and patients with partial remissions. The results of this study suggest that toxicities associated with combination rIFN therapy can be reduced by administering these agents sequentially as opposed to simultaneously. 
Primary cardiac leiomyosarcomas. Two patients with primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma, one of the rarest malignant tumors of the heart, are described. The first patient had a tumor of the pulmonary trunk and was admitted with symptoms suggestive of pulmonary thromboembolism. The second had a tumor of the left atrium and had signs and symptoms of mitral valve obstruction and regurgitation. The 2 patients were operated on and later underwent adjuvant chemotherapy. Both died more than 22 months after operation, having required multiple hospital admissions for treatment of complications related to the pathology or the treatment of the primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma. Nonetheless, aggressive surgical excision followed by chemotherapy appears to have improved survival in these patients with primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma, as they are among the longest survivors reported. 
Regulation of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone receptor binding by heterologous and autologous receptor-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation. Pancreatic cancers overexpress tyrosine kinase and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) receptor (LH-RHR)-mediated tyrosine phosphatase. LH-RHR is a 60-kDa protein. One of the substrates of epidermal growth factor (EGF)-stimulated tyrosine kinase activity and LH-RH- and somatostatin-stimulated tyrosine phosphatase activity is also a 60-kDa protein. This suggests the possibility that LH-RHR regulation by tyrosine phosphatase and tyrosine kinase is mediated by (de)phosphorylation of existing LH-RHR. To test this hypothesis, membranes of MIA PaCa-2 cells, a human dedifferentiated pancreatic cancer cell line, were incubated without hormone (control) or with 0.1 microM EGF or somatostatin analogue RC-160 for 1 hr at 4 degrees C to phosphorylate the 60-kDa protein. Competition binding experiments with I125-labeled [D-Trp6]LH-RH by displacement with a nonradioactive ligand showed that the LH-RH binding in 69% of the points was increased by EGF and 85% was decreased by RC-160 compared with controls (n = 61; both significant, P less than 0.001). The specific binding was altered, increasing 50-150% after preincubation with EGF and decreasing 60-70% after RC-160. No change was seen in the binding affinity constant after pretreatment with EGF or RC-160. This shows that phosphorylation regulates binding of LH-RH and may explain the up-regulation by EGF and down-regulation by RC-160 and by LH-RH of the LH-RH response. 
Noninvasive diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis. Deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremity poses a diagnostic challenge. Clinical signs and symptoms are often misleading, and sensitive and specific tests are essential for diagnosis. The cost, patient discomfort and risk of morbidity associated with contrast venography have led to the development of noninvasive diagnostic techniques such as Doppler ultrasound, impedance plethysmography and duplex ultrasound scanning. If noninvasive tests unequivocally indicate deep venous thrombosis, treatment may be started without the need for contrast venography. 
Effects of perinatal stroke on striatal amino acid efflux in rats studied with in vivo microdialysis. We used in vivo microdialysis to determine the impact of a focal hypoxic-ischemic insult on striatal amino acid efflux in the immature brain. Microdialysis probes were inserted into the right striatum of postnatal day 7 rats. To induce hypoxic-ischemic injury, the right carotid artery was ligated and the animals were exposed to 8% oxygen for 2.5 hours (n = 22). Rats exposed to ligation alone (n = 10) or hypoxia alone (n = 8) and untreated controls (n = 17) were also studied. Two hours after probe insertion, a 30-minute baseline microdialysis sample was obtained. After arterial ligation, two additional baseline samples were collected. Five more samples were collected over the next 2.5 hours (in 8% oxygen or room air). Eight amino acids (glutamate, aspartate, taurine, glutamine, alanine, serine, glycine, and asparagine) were consistently detected in dialysates using a high-performance liquid chromatography assay with electrochemical detection. In untreated controls, amino acid efflux did not change over 4 hours. During hypoxia-ischemia, efflux values fluctuated widely, with marked intra-animal and interanimal variability. Efflux peaks for each amino acid were defined as values greater than the highest control mean value plus two standard deviations. Glutamate efflux peaks (greater than 7 pmol/min compared with 2 pmol/min at baseline) were detected in no controls and in eight hypoxic-ischemic rats (p = 0.006, Fisher's two-tailed exact test). Taurine efflux peaks (greater than 75 pmol/min compared with 10 pmol/min for controls at baseline) were detected in 10 hypoxic-ischemic rats and one control (p = 0.01) and in seven of the eight animals in which glutamate efflux peaks occurred (p = 0.006). 
Patterns of morbidity and mortality in typhoid fever dependent on age and gender: review of 552 hospitalized patients with diarrhea. Features of typhoid fever were correlated with age and gender through a review of the charts of 552 hospitalized culture-positive patients with diarrhea in Bangladesh. Seizures occurred more frequently in children from birth through 10 years of age (5%-11%) and pneumonia more frequently in children from birth through 5 years of age (8%-15%) than in older age groups (P less than .05), whereas intestinal perforation occurred more frequently in patients greater than or equal to 11 years of age (5%-25%) than in younger age groups (P less than .005). Compared with older age groups, children from birth through 10 years of age were more anemic, those from birth through 5 years of age had a higher mean white blood cell count, and those from birth through 1 year of age had a lower mean blood carbon dioxide content (all P less than .05). Female patients were more severely anemic than male patients (P less than .05). The case-fatality rate was 4.3% overall, with the highest rates for children from birth through 1 year of age (11%) and adults greater than or equal to 31 years of age (10%). Female patients had a higher case-fatality rate (6%) than male patients (3%), although the difference was not significant (P greater than .05). Death was independently associated with seizures, intestinal perforation, pneumonia, and delirium or coma. These results indicated that the patients with typhoid fever who were at highest risk of complications and death were children from birth through 1 year of age and adults greater than or equal to 31 years of age. 
Diurnal blood pressure variation in quadriplegic chronic spinal cord injury patients. 1. Measurement of blood pressure and heart rate over a 24 h period was performed in 10 quadriplegic spinal cord injury patients and 10 immobilized, neurologically intact orthopaedic subjects by using the Spacelabs 90207 automated ambulatory monitoring system. 2. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure fell significantly at night in orthopaedic subjects but not in quadriplegic patients, and night-time blood pressures were similar in both groups. 3. Cumulative summation of differences from a reference value (cusum analysis) confirmed a markedly diminished diurnal blood pressure variation in the quadriplegic patients. 4. These findings could not be accounted for on the basis of blood pressure variations during chronic postural change. 5. Heart rate fell significantly at night in both groups. 6. The findings suggest that the increase in blood pressure during waking hours in neurologically intact subjects is a consequence of a diurnal variation in sympathetic activity (absent in quadriplegic patients with sympathetic decentralization) which is independent of changes in physical activity. 
Postpericardiotomy and postmyocardial infarction syndrome presenting as noncardiac pulmonary edema. Three cases are reported that describe acute pulmonary edema as an early manifestation of a postpericardiotomy or postmyocardial infarction syndrome. Each of these cases occurred in the presence of good left ventricular function. The cases suggest this syndrome occurs in immunologically primed patients who have had prior cardiac injury resulting in readily available heart antibody. The first report followed an acute myocardial infarction that required a temporary pacemaker, and the two other cases occurred following coronary artery bypass surgery. Two of the patients had a history of distant myocardial or pericardial injury, and the third patient had an acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction two to three weeks before cardiac surgery. All three patients with pulmonary edema responded dramatically to corticosteroids, having been resistant to diuretic and pre-load and afterload reduction therapy, suggesting an autoimmune capillary injury process. Early recognition of such a syndrome is important since all three patients were successfully treated, and might otherwise have been confused with other causes of pulmonary edema. 
Splanchnic oxygen consumption in septic and hemorrhagic shock. Oxygen consumption (VO2) is dependent on oxygen delivery (DO2) in septic shock. Local hypoxia with later secondary organ failure may develop, however, despite an often hyperdynamic circulation. The splanchnic organs seem to be of vital importance in this context. In experiments performed in pigs we compared total body VO2 and DO2 with oxygen consumption and delivery in the gastrointestinal organs and the liver in two different shock states: (1) septic shock induced by peritonitis (n = 6) and (2) hemorrhagic shock (n = 6). Another group of six animals not in shock served as controls. Total, gastrointestinal, and liver DO2 decreased in a similar pattern in both septic and hemorrhagic shock. Gastrointestinal and liver VO2 increased in sepsis, whereas it was unchanged in hemorrhage. In the later phase of sepsis, liver VO2, but not gastrointestinal VO2, again decreased, because liver oxygen extraction was almost total and liver DO2 decreased further. The development of flow-dependent liver hypoxia was reflected in a decrease in liver lactate turnover (increased liver lactate release) during late sepsis. Early hypoxia in the splanchnic region is suggested as a plausible mechanism behind the development of secondary organ failure, especially in sepsis. 
Long-term L-carnitine treatment in isovaleric acidemia. A 5-year-old girl with isovaleric acidemia was treated with long-term L-carnitine and no supplemental glycine. Clinical and laboratory data are presented. Following diagnosis and treatment at age 2 years, the frequency of acute exacerbations of metabolic acidosis was reduced and she resumed normal growth and development. L-carnitine supplementation and protein restriction may be sufficient for effective therapy of isovaleric acidemia. 
Wrist movements in able-bodied and brain injured individuals. The purpose of this study was to compare movement velocity characteristics during targeted wrist movements between able-bodied individuals and a sample of individuals with spasticity secondary to closed head injury. Two amplitudes (30 degrees and 60 degrees) of movement were performed at slow and fast velocities, with the forearm either passively supported or actively supported by elbow extension and shoulder flexion. Variables measured were the following: (1) average velocity of entire movement, (2) velocity for 10 degrees increments of a movement, and (3) ratio of average peak 10 degrees increment velocity to average velocity. In addition, qualitative examination of velocity profiles was performed. Slow movements were performed in a discontinuous manner by both groups; however, observable differences in peak/average velocity were noted between groups in the unsupported position during slow and fast movements. Able-bodied individuals performed seven of eight fast movements with greater velocity (p less than .05) than brain injured individuals, and the fast movements of the able-bodied subjects were continuous. 
Recurrent prolonged coma due to basilar artery migraine. A case report. A 25 year old patient presented with recurrent prolonged episodes of life-threatening coma varying from 3 to 10 days. The clinical recovery was slow. The history and technical examinations led to the diagnosis of basilar artery migraine (BAM). The etiology of the coma episodes is thought to be related to ischemic dysfunction of the rostral part of the brainstem due to severe spasm of the basilar artery demonstrated by arteriography. Exceptional are the recurrent prolonged coma episodes of sudden onset, the severe spasm of the basilar artery, and the suppression-burst and FIRDA pattern on the EEG examinations during the coma episodes. 
White sponge naevus and ocular coloboma. White sponge naevus occurred in association with coloboma of the iris in six members of one family, across three generations. The association of these two dominantly inherited conditions has not to our knowledge previously been described. 
Effects of short-term, diet-induced hypercholesterolemia on systemic hemodynamics, myocardial blood flow, and infarct size in awake dogs with acute myocardial infarction. BACKGROUND. Short-term cholesterol feeding has been shown to affect vasomotor tone and increase infarct size in anesthetized rabbits. The purpose of the study was to determine whether acute hypercholesterolemia reduced collateral flow to ischemic myocardium and increased infarct size in the awake dog. METHODS AND RESULTS. Acute myocardial infarction was produced in awake dogs by a 4-hour left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion followed by 6-hour reperfusion after either a cholesterol-supplemented diet (n = 14) or a control diet of dog chow (n = 15) for 10 days. Infarct size was determined using nitroblue tetrazolium staining. In two subgroups, a 15-minute transient occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery was produced before the diet treatments and was compared with occlusion after diet treatments, so that the effects of hypercholesterolemia of collateral flow could be determined by paired comparisons. Cholesterol feeding increased plasma cholesterol to 288 +/- 52 mg/dl, which was twofold to threefold that in the control group (127 +/- 35 mg/dl), but had no effects on baseline systemic hemodynamics and myocardial blood flow. Coronary artery occlusion produced similar increases in heart rate, mean aortic pressure, left atrial pressure, and plasma norepinephrine in both groups of animals. However, cholesterol feeding reduced collateral flow to ischemic myocardium and increased infarct size, compared with the control group. The infarct size correlated with ischemic myocardial blood flow in both groups, but the slopes of regression lines relating the two variables did not differ between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS. Short-term, diet-induced hypercholesterolemia increased infarct size in awake dogs. This change results, at least in part, from a decrease in collateral blood flow to ischemic myocardium during coronary artery occlusion. 
Stress incontinence and cystoceles. We studied prospectively 62 women with cystoceles by video-urodynamics before and after operative repair. Of 29 women with grades 1 and 2 cystoceles 8 had residual urine, 14 had urge incontinence and 24 had symptoms of stress urinary incontinence. Of these women 23 had urodynamic evidence of stress incontinence, as did 3 of 5 without stress incontinence symptoms. Of 33 women with large cystoceles 22 had symptoms of stress urinary incontinence but 10 more had urodynamic evidence of stress urinary incontinence. Of these 33 women 18 had significant residual urine and 24 had urge incontinence. Operative repair resolved stress incontinence in 51 of 54 women, urge incontinence in 33 of 38 and residual urine in 24 of 26. Cystoceles recurred in 3 patients, and enteroceles developed in 3 and recurred in 2. These findings indicate that cystoceles may cause voiding dysfunction and lack of symptoms of stress incontinence is unreliable in patients with cystoceles. In addition, cystoceles are associated with other symptoms, most of which actually resolve after operative repair. 
Cardiovascular and catecholamine responses to head-up tilt in the diagnosis of recurrent unexplained syncope in elderly patients. To increase understanding of the mechanisms causing syncope in patients over the age of 60, hemodynamic and hormonal responses to 60 minutes of 60 degree head-up tilt were examined in 10 patients with recurrent syncope of unknown origin and five controls with no history of syncope. Nine of 10 patients and all five controls experienced orthostatic intolerance on the tilt table. Syncope or pre-syncope occurred later in controls than in those syncope patients who had exact reproduction of their clinical symptoms (median time 52 versus 22 minutes, P = 0.05). Three different mechanisms of orthostatic intolerance were identified in the 14 subjects: (1) vasovagal syncope, n = 9 (sudden hypotension +/- bradycardia); (2) dysautonomic syncope, n = 3 (immediate and gradual parallel declines in both systolic and diastolic pressures with blunted increase in heart rate); (3) psychogenic or vestibular reaction, n = 2 (orthostatic intolerance without hemodynamic changes). Vasovagal syncope patients showed a significant increase in plasma norepinephrine from baseline to maximum level during tilt (100 +/- 39% increase, P = 0.03) and a subsequent decrease at the time of syncope (30 +/- 5% decrease, P = 0.01), while plasma epinephrine increased markedly from baseline to the time of syncope (827 +/- 154% increase, P = 0.0003). Dysautonomic syncope patients had lower supine levels of norepinephrine compared to vasovagal syncope patients (182 +/- 30 versus 614 +/- 146 pg/mL, P = 0.008) and no significant change in norepinephrine over time; epinephrine levels increased significantly less than in vasovagal patients (net change 38 +/- 8 versus 189 +/- 56 pg/mL, P = 0.008). 
Cystoscopic suction diathermy for the treatment of superficial bladder tumours. The treatment of superficial bladder tumours (Ta, T1) is a time-consuming exercise for urological surgeons and patients. A method of treating the tumours, whether primary or recurrent, by endoscopic suction diathermy has been developed. The technique significantly reduces the amount of tumour debris within the bladder during treatment as well as the amount of diathermy employed. By removing the free tumour cells in the irrigation fluid the risk of tumour cell implantation may be kept to a minimum. 
The t(1;22) (p13;q13) is nonrandom and restricted to infants with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group Study. We report the nonrandom occurrence and frequency of the t(1;22)(p13;q13) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and its close association with the French-American-British M7 subtype of AML in infants (less than 1 year). This chromosomal abnormality occurred in 6 of 252 (2.4%) children and adolescents with AML (6 of 28 infants, 22%; 6 of 18 M7 AML cases overall, 33%; and 6 of 6 M7 cases in infants). Infants with AML of M7 subtype and the t(1;22) often presented with prominent abdominal masses. Two of these infants were not treated and died early. Three of four treated infants entered complete remission with therapy for AML; the remaining infant died of hemorrhage on day 8. Of the three infants who entered remission, only one remains alive and disease free at 5+ months. The other two infants relapsed in the bone marrow at 5 and 2 months from the start of therapy, respectively. We conclude that M7 AML with the t(1;22) usually presents in infants with extensive infiltration of abdominal organs by leukemic cells and may confer a poor prognosis despite intensive AML-directed treatment. Identification of this nonrandom translocation exclusively in infants with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMkL) implies that it may serve as an additional diagnostic marker for this disease and links it to the pathogenesis of AMkL in infants. 
Pentoxifylline in resuscitation of experimental hemorrhagic shock. BACKGROUND: Pentoxifylline improves survival in animal models of hemorrhagic shock. The purpose of this study was to determine the physiologic effects of pentoxifylline in hemorrhagic shock that may be responsible for improved survival. METHODS: Randomized, prospective, blinded trials in Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to hemorrhage and resuscitation, with or without pentoxifylline. RESULTS: Pentoxifylline had no effect on BP or cardiac output. However, tissue oxygenation and oxygen consumption were increased with pentoxifylline resuscitation. Pentoxifylline resuscitation also significantly decreased polymorphonuclear leukocyte adhesiveness. CONCLUSIONS: Pentoxifylline improves tissue oxygenation and oxygen consumption posthemorrhage and this effect is not due to increased cardiac output. Therefore, it must be due to improved microcirculatory blood flow. This effect may be due to decreased polymorphonuclear leukocyte adhesiveness induced by pentoxifylline resuscitation. 
Alcoholic liver disease: pathologic, pathogenetic and clinical aspects [published erratum appears in Alcohol Clin Exp Res 1991 Mar;15(2):180] Alcoholic liver disease includes steatosis, alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis. Other liver diseases of genetic origin, but with a curious association with alcohol intake, are hemochromatosis and porphyria cutanea tarda. The attribution of chronic hepatitis to alcohol intake remains speculative, and the association may reflect hepatitis C infection. Hepatic injury attributed to alcohol includes the changes reported in the fetal alcohol syndrome. Steatosis, the characteristic consequence of excess alcohol intake, is usually macrovesicular and rarely microvesicular. Acute intrahepatic cholestasis, which in rare instances accompanies steatosis, must be distinguished from other causes of intrahepatic cholestasis (e.g., drug-induced) and from mechanical obstruction of the intrahepatic bile ducts (e.g., pancreatitis, choledocholithiasis) before being accepted. Alcoholic hepatitis (steatonecrosis) is characterized by a constellation of lesions: steatosis, Mallory bodies (with or without a neutrophilic inflammatory response), megamitochondria, occlusive lesions of terminal hepatic venules, and a lattice-like pattern of pericellular fibrosis. All these lesions mainly affect zone 3 of the hepatic acinus. Other changes, observed at the ultrastructural level, are of importance in progression of the disease. They include widespread cytoplasmic shedding, and capillarization and defenestration of sinusoids. Progressive fibrosis complicating alcoholic hepatitis eventually leads to cirrhosis that is typically micronodular but can evolve to a mixed or macronodular pattern. Hepatocellular carcinoma occurs in 5 to 15% of patients with alcoholic liver disease. The clinical syndrome of alcoholic liver disease is the result of three factors--parenchymal insufficiency, portal hypertension and the clinical consequences of extrahepatic damage produced by alcohol. At the several phases of the life history of alcoholic liver disease, the individual factors play a different role. The clinical manifestations of alcoholic steatosis are mainly extrahepatic in origin. Those of alcoholic hepatitis reflect mainly parenchymal insufficiency and those of cirrhosis are mainly those of portal hypertension. Alcoholic liver injury appears to be generated by the effects of ethanol metabolism and the toxic effects of acetaldehyde, perhaps the immune responses to alcohol- or acetaldehyde-altered proteins, and questionably enhanced by viral hepatitis. Alcoholic hepatitis may be mimicked histologically, and to a varying degree clinically, by a number of conditions (obesity, diabetes, several drug-induced injuries, jejunoileal bypass, and related "shortcircuiting" of the bowel). Perhaps the most important facet of the hepatotoxicity of alcohol is its enhancement of the effects of a number of other hepatotoxic agents, among which acetaminophen is the prime example. 
Correlation of clinical and histopathologic features in clinically atypical melanocytic nevi. To define better the evolving entity of dysplastic melanocytic nevus (DMN), studies correlating clinical with histologic features of DMN are essential. However, based on a literature search, no previous quantitative analysis was found of the relationship between gross morphologic features and histologic features of DMN. The authors correlated individual clinical features with histopathologic features and histologic diagnosis of the clinically most atypical nevus in 153 melanoma patients. This nevus was identified, evaluated clinically, and removed for histologic evaluation from each patient. Gross morphologic features assessed for nevi included: size (in mm), the presence of a macular component, irregular border, ill-defined border, haphazard coloration, distortion of skin cleavage lines on tangential lighting, asymmetry, and number of colors present (12 features in all). Nineteen histologic features were assessed in each nevus by a single dermatopathologist. These included architectural, nuclear, and cytoplasmic parameters ascribed to dysplastic nevi. Each of these histologic features was correlated with the 12 individual clinical features. Seventeen percent of the nevi fulfilled the criteria for the histologic diagnosis of DMN. Among individual nevus parameters, size (in mm), irregular border, ill-defined border, macular component, and pink color were associated significantly with histologic DMN. Nevus size (in mm) and irregular borders correlated with the greatest number of individual histologic parameters. A comparison of clinicopathologic correlations for two different examiners revealed that certain clinical features are probably more important than others for the recognition of dysplastic nevi and that individual examiners have different thresholds for the perception of some gross morphologic features. These observations are relevant to the development of clinical criteria for dysplastic nevi. 
Acute non-A, non-B hepatitis in a hospital population in Warsaw, Poland: clinical and epidemiological aspects. In the years 1986-1988, 530 consecutive cases of acute viral hepatitis were admitted to an infectious disease hospital in Warsaw. Hepatitis A was diagnosed in 34 cases (6.4%), hepatitis B in 436 (82.3%), CMV infection in five (0.9%), and 55 cases (10.4%) were classified as hepatitis non-A, non-B. In 47 cases (85%) of non-A, non-B hepatitis, there was evidence of parenteral transmission, whereas in eight (15%), the source of infection was unknown. Chronic liver disease developed in 50% of patients with parenteral exposure, but there were no cases with known exposure. Seroconversion to anti-HCV was observed only in patients with parenteral exposure, and 60% of followed up cases developed antibodies within 6 months. 
Pericardial effusion after intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute myocardial infarction. The effect of thrombolytic therapy on the frequency, time course and sequelae of pericardial effusion after myocardial infarction are unknown. A prospective, serial, 2-dimensional echocardiographic study of patients with myocardial infarction who received recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was undertaken to address this issue. The study population comprised 52 of the 112 patients enrolled in the first Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction trial at Duke University Medical Center. Enrollment in the serial echocardiography protocol was determined by equipment and support staff availability. Complete echocardiographic studies were performed within 90 minutes after initiation of thrombolytic therapy (day 0), and on days 1, 3 and 6. Patients undergoing serial echocardiography did not differ in demographic or clinical characteristics from those who did not. Pericardial effusion was present in 3 of 38 patients (8%) at day 0, in 2 of 44 (5%) at day 1, in 8 of 43 (19%) at day 3, and in 10 of 42 (24%) at day 6. By day 6, 3 of 10 pericardial effusions were moderate in size, 1 of 10 was large and the remainder were small. No patients developed echocardiographic or hemodynamic signs of cardiac tamponade. The prevalence and time course of pericardial effusion among patients with acute myocardial infarction who received rt-PA in this study are similar to observations reported in earlier studies in which patients did not receive thrombolytic therapy. Adverse sequelae of pericardial effusion after thrombolytic therapy are rare. 
Developing a dysphagia program in an acute care hospital: a needs assessment. A needs assessment for a hospital-based dysphagia program was conducted to determine incidence, management procedures, and outcome for stroke patients with swallowing disorders. Using a chart review of 225 patients, it was found that 28% had documented evidence of dysphagia. When dysphagia co-occurred with stroke, significantly more functional problems and medical complications were reported, as well as increased need for dietary modifications and alternative feeding methods. The dysphagic patients were more often aphasic and dysarthric and less able to communicate. Mental status was more likely to be reduced and the need for staff supervision during mealtime was increased. Dysphagic patients had significantly longer hospital stays, thus increasing the cost of their care. At discharge, almost half of them continued to need feeding modifications, which may have delayed rehabilitation or transfer to facilities with other levels of care. The dysphagia group clearly displayed a wide range of clinical symptoms that would alert staff to their risk for medical complications because of swallowing problems. We believe that this needs assessment clearly showed that a multidisciplinary dysphagia management program has the potential to enhance patient care while decreasing the cost of health care delivery for the hospital. 
Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging following cranial base surgery. The computed tomography scans and magnetic resonance imaging films of 57 patients who underwent anterior or anterolateral cranial base surgery from January 1987 to August 1989 were retrospectively reviewed to ascertain the significance of early and late postoperative intracranial imaging changes. Extra-axial changes (air, blood, cerebrospinal fluid collection) were found in 96% of patients; axial changes (brain edema, contusion) were seen in 30% of patients in the first postoperative period (72 hours). Subsequently, extra-axial changes began to resolve but axial changes became more prevalent. After 6 months, only axial changes persisted (encephalomalacia). It was encouraging to find a low correlation of imaging abnormalities with clinically significant findings. 
Resistant hypertension in a tertiary care clinic. STUDY OBJECTIVE.--To determine the prevalence of resistant hypertension in a tertiary care facility, the frequency of its various causes, and the results of treatment. DESIGN.--Review of clinic records of all patients seen for the first time between January 1, 1986, and December 31, 1988. METHODS.--Patients meeting criteria for resistant hypertension were examined for appropriateness of their medical regimen, presence of secondary causes of hypertension, noncompliance, interfering substances, drug interactions, office resistance (elevated blood pressure in the office only while receiving treatment), and other potential causes of resistance. RESULTS.--Of the 436 charts reviewed, 91 were those of patients who met criteria for resistant hypertension and were seen more than once. The most common cause was a suboptimal medical regimen (39 patients), followed by medication intolerance (13 patients), previously undiagnosed secondary hypertension (10 patients), noncompliance (nine patients), psychiatric causes (seven patients), office resistance (two patients), an interfering substance (two patients), and drug interaction (one patient). Blood pressure control, defined as diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or less and systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg or less for patients aged 50 years or less (less than or equal to 150 mm Hg for those aged 51 to 60 years and less than or equal to 160 mm Hg for those aged greater than 60 years), was achieved in 48 (53%) of those 91 patients. Another 10 had significant improvement in their blood pressure (greater than or equal to 15% decrease in diastolic blood pressure). Of patients whose blood pressure was controlled after they had been on a suboptimal regimen, the two most frequently used therapeutic strategies were to add (50%) or modify (24%) diuretic therapy or to add (50%) or increase the dose of (12%) a newer drug, either a calcium entry blocker or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. CONCLUSION.--We conclude that resistant hypertension is common in a tertiary care facility and that a suboptimal regimen is the most common reason. Furthermore, in the majority of these patients, the elevated blood pressures can be controlled or significantly improved. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of aortocoronary venous bypass grafts and effect of the caliber of the grafted coronary artery on graft stenosis. The influence of morphologic parameters on the recurrence of stenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of 49 stenoses in aortocoronary venous bypass grafts of 41 patients was investigated. Vessel dimensions were measured quantitatively. Angioplasty was successful in 46 stenoses (94%) of 38 patients (93%). In 35 patients (92% of successfully treated patients) with 42 stenoses, control angiography was performed after a mean interval of 189 +/- 186 days. In 9 patients (26%), 9 stenoses (21%) had recurred. The diameter of the grafted coronary artery distal to the anastomosis was significantly smaller in grafted arteries with than without recurrent stenoses (1.92 +/- 0.52 vs 2.45 +/- 0.50 mm; p less than 0.01). Recurrence also correlated with the ratio between graft diameter and coronary artery diameter greater than 1.35 (p less than 0.02) and with the stenosis length greater than 10 mm before angioplasty (p less than 0.01). Graft age, graft diameter and stenosis location in the graft had no significant influence on recurrence. Thus, the diameter of the grafted coronary artery and the length of the critical stenosis are parameters for recurrence after angioplasty of graft stenoses and should be considered in the selection of patients for this intervention. 
Prolonged paralysis after treatment with neuromuscular junction blocking agents. OBJECTIVES: Previous reports have described prolonged paralysis after treatment with neuromuscular junction blocking agents in critically ill patients. The purpose of this study was to further describe a group of patients who developed prolonged weakness after treatment with these agents. DESIGN: Clinical information, electrodiagnostic and muscle pathology results are described in this group of patients. Clinical information includes diagnoses, dosage of neuromuscular junction blocker, other medications affecting the neuromuscular system, and neuromuscular examination and clinical course. SETTING: All patients were seen in the ICUs of three local hospitals. PATIENTS: Included were critically ill patients with a variety of diagnoses, all of whom developed severe weakness after discontinuation of neuromuscular junction blocking agents. INTERVENTIONS: Electrodiagnostic studies and muscle biopsies were performed on several of the patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients had pronounced weakness without sensory loss. Electrodiagnostic and muscle pathology findings were consistent with failed neuromuscular transmission. Although many patients had disorders or were taking medications that can injure the neuromuscular system, no disorder or medication was common to all. Recovery of strength often took several months and most patients were slow to wean from mechanical ventilator support. CONCLUSIONS: Although alternative explanations cannot be excluded with certainty, the use of neuromuscular junction blocking agents may lead to neurogenic atrophy and care must be taken when using them. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor: a gallium-avid mobile mesenteric mass. An 8-yr-old boy with a 1-mo history of culture-negative fever and anemia underwent gallium, ultrasound, and computed tomography studies as part of the evaluation of a fever of unknown origin. These studies revealed a mobile gallium-avid solid abdominal mass subsequently proven to be an inflammatory pseudotumor of the mesentery, a rare benign mass. This report documents the gallium-avid nature of this rare lesion and discusses associated characteristic clinical, pathologic, and radiographic features. 
Radiologic evaluation of aortic dissection. The radiologic assessment of patients suspected of having an aortic dissection must be based on an understanding of the treatment options and how these are to be employed in any clinical setting. The appropriate selection and timing of imaging studies is crucial. The diagnosis of dissection must be quickly confirmed, other diseases that mimic dissection must be excluded, and the type and extent of dissection must be established so that appropriate therapy can be instituted. Although computed tomography, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and echocardiography greatly enhanced the ability to evaluate the aorta by noninvasive means, aortography remains the examination of choice for defining the vascular anatomy, especially when surgical intervention is considered. MR imaging may become the primary examination for the initial and subsequent evaluation of acute and chronic dissections as MR angiographic techniques improve and changes are made in monitoring equipment to allow the safe examination of acutely ill patients. 
Genital chlamydial infections: epidemiology and reproductive sequelae. Genital chlamydial infection is increasing and is now more common than gonorrhea. A sizable percentage of chlamydial infections of the lower genital tract in women progress to endometritis and salpingitis. Tubal infertility and ectopic pregnancy are important sequelae. Failure to control chlamydial infections reflects the following four factors: (1) Many cases are mild or asymptomatic; (2) diagnostic tests are expensive and technically demanding; (3) at least 7 days of multiple-dose therapy are currently required; and (4) partner notification is not routinely performed. Thus early identification of infected persons and compliance with curative therapy are less likely than with other sexually transmitted bacterial diseases. 
Detection of hepatitis B virus DNA sequences in liver in HBsAg seronegative patients with liver disease with and without anti-HBc antibodies. Excluding studies from Brechot and co-workers, little support has been found for a role of the hepatitis B virus in the pathogenesis of HBsAg seronegative patients with predominantly chronic liver diseases, including primary liver cancer. In this study liver DNA from 59 predominantly British patients (four cases with paired biopsies, 6-12 months apart) with different, mostly chronic, liver diseases was analysed by molecular hybridization. All were seronegative for HBsAg and serum hepatitis B virus DNA (dot blot hybridization) and their liver diseases were believed to be unrelated to hepatitis B virus infection. Hepatitis B virus DNA was detected in liver of 11 (18.6 per cent) patients; nine had episomal (3.2 Kb) DNA and eight had higher molecular weight bands suggesting integrated forms. Six patients were also seronegative for anti-HBc. Patients of UK and non-UK origin were equally represented. Hepatitis B virus DNA was detected in serum of six of nine patients tested using the polymerase chain reaction. The detection of hepatitis B virus DNA in liver and in serum by this assay in a significant proportion of patients with chronic liver disease, hitherto unsuspected of being hepatitis B virus-related, suggests a possible role for this virus in low- as well as high-prevalence countries. 
Evolution of renal insufficiency in ischemic nephropathy. This retrospective review of data collected during a recent 42-month period from 58 consecutive patients with ischemic nephropathy submitted to operative management in the authors' center was undertaken to report the rate of decline in their renal function during the period before intervention and to examine the impact of operation on their outcome. Based on serum creatinine values, immediate preoperative estimated glomerular filtration rates (EGFR) ranged from 0 to 46 mL/minute (mean, 23.85 +/- 9.76 mL/minute). Eight patients were dialysis dependent or anuric at the time of operation. Patients with at least three sequential measurements for calculations of EGFR changes during the 6 months before operation (n = 50) and the first 12 months after operation (n = 32) were used to describe the preoperative rate of decline in EGFR and the impact of operation on this decrease in the operative survivors. In addition comparative analyses of data from patients with unilateral versus bilateral lesions and patients classified as having improvement in EGFR versus no improvement after operation were performed. Comparison of the immediate preoperative EGFR with the immediate postoperative EGFR for the entire group showed significant improvement in response to operation. Likewise the rate of deterioration in EGFR for the total group was improved after operation. A similar improvement in the rate of deterioration in EGFR was seen in the subgroup of patients who received an immediate improvement in EGFR in response to operation. These data argue that ischemic nephropathy is a rapidly progressive form of renal insufficiency. Although individual responses to operation were heterogeneous, renal revascularization may provide both immediate improvement in renal function and an improvement in its rate of deterioration during follow-up in patients with ischemic nephropathy. 
Metastatic meningioma in the neck. Although meningiomas represent 15 per cent of tumours of the central nervous system, they rarely metastasize. A case is presented in which metastasis to a cervical lymph node occurred, together with local recurrence, nine years after initial diagnosis and treatment. This case serves to illustrate that malignant meningioma is a rare cause of a neck mass. 
Validation of a clinical antisaccadic eye movement test in the assessment of dementia. The ability to generate antisaccades (eye movements deliberately made in the direction opposite to that of a visual stimulus) may be used to assess central nervous system function in a variety of neurologic and psychiatric disorders. However, the usefulness of this paradigm in clinical practice is limited by the need for an oculographic laboratory. We describe a clinical version of such an antisaccadic task and present normative data from 332 subjects. We also examined clinical antisaccades and cognitive performance in 30 patients with Alzheimer's disease, five patients with Huntington's disease, and 12 patients with pseudodementia. In Alzheimer's disease, error rates in the clinical antisaccadic test correlated well with those from a laboratory-based antisaccadic task measured on the same day by infrared oculography, confirming that the clinical antisaccadic test is a valid analog of the more sophisticated laboratory paradigms. Clinical antisaccadic error rates correlated strongly with the severity of dementia in Alzheimer's disease, and correlations with cognitive performance suggested that the clinical antisaccadic test may have some specificity for frontal lobe dysfunction. Patients with pseudodementia had normal clinical antisaccadic error rates, and the test may therefore be of use in differentiating dementia from pseudodementia. This clinical antisaccadic test provides a simple, reliable, and inexpensive quantitative clinical tool that is of value in the assessment of disturbances of higher cortical function. 
Neuromodulatory effects of atrial natriuretic factor are independent of guanylate cyclase in adrenergic neuronal pheochromocytoma cells. This study tests the hypothesis that atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and C-ANF(4-23)-NH2 (C-ANF) augment cGMP generation and inhibit both cAMP generation and depolarization-induced catecholamine release in nerve growth factor treated pheochromocytoma cells by a pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive mechanism. Synthetic rat ANF(99-126) and the clearance receptor antagonist C-ANF (10(-12)-10(-9) M) inhibited basal and 5 microM vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-induced cAMP generation in a concentration-dependent manner. These actions of ANF and C-ANF were blocked by 12-18 h pretreatment with PTX (100 ng/ml), suggesting ANF receptor coupling to adenylate cyclase via an inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding protein. Both ANF (10(-11)-10(-9) M) and C-ANF (10(-11)-10(-8) M) also inhibited K(+)-induced catecholamine release in a concentration-dependent manner. ANF (10(-11)-10(-8) M) increased cGMP generation in a concentration-dependent manner but C-ANF did not. The accumulation of cGMP in response to ANF was not altered by treatment with PTX. Therefore, PTX dissociated the increased concentrations of cGMP from the ANF-mediated depression of evoked catecholamine release. C-ANF also dissociated elevations in cGMP concentrations from an ANF-mediated attenuation of evoked catecholamine release. The results of this study indicate that ANF inhibits adrenergic neurotransmission independent of guanylate cyclase. 
Leptotrichia buccalis bacteremia in patients with cancer: report of four cases and review. Leptotrichia buccalis, an anaerobic gram-negative rod, is part of the normal oral flora and has rarely been isolated from clinical material. We describe four patients with neutropenia and progressive malignancy who had symptomatic L. buccalis bacteremia, and we review an additional four cases from the literature. The mean age of the patients was 31 years (range, 7-73 years), with an equal number of males and females. The number of positive blood cultures in each case ranged from one to four (mean, two); these cultures became positive after 48-120 hours (median, 54 hours). All tested isolates were sensitive to the beta-lactam agents, clindamycin, tetracycline, and metronidazole; five of seven were sensitive to chloramphenicol; and not one was sensitive to the aminoglycosides, vancomycin, ciprofloxacin, or erythromycin. Seven patients had one or more possible portals of entry for bacteremia, including mucositis (four patients), mucositis plus esophageal lesions (two), and possible mucositis plus diverticulitis (one). L. buccalis should be considered a potential pathogen in neutropenic patients, especially when breaks in the mucosal breaks in the mucosal barriers are present. 
How AIDS forces reappraisal of hepatitis B virus control in sub-Saharan Africa For developing countries the cost-benefit of vaccination in the control of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is great since the acute infection is generally subclinical and the benefit is the prevention of small numbers of cases of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Since the pattern of HBV infection in Africa is such that, compared with south-east Asia, infection occurs later in childhood and spread is horizontal rather than vertical, investigation of the method of spread of HBV may result in a means of control other than by vaccination. In the meantime, because of the overlap in the means by which HBV and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are spread, it could be worthwhile taking advantage of existing AIDS prevention programmes to educate people about how to avoid both HBV and HIV infections. 
Impending paradoxical embolism: a rare but important diagnosis. A man aged 50 presented with a history of a cerebrovascular accident and arterial embolism at two discrete peripheral sites. Echocardiography showed thrombus trapped in an interatrial site and impending paradoxical embolism was diagnosed. Treatment with heparin was started and the potentially embolic intracardiac material was removed at open heart surgery. The patient was treated with warfarin and made a good recovery. This is only the third case report of impending paradoxical embolism diagnosed in life. 
The low-affinity p75 nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor mediates NGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. Protein tyrosine phosphorylation is a potential mechanism for initial signaling in PC12 cells during differentiation in response to nerve growth factor (NGF). NGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation has been found to be initiated by the trk protooncogene, which participates in the formation of high-affinity NGF binding sites. In contrast to transfection of wild-type low-affinity p75 NGF receptors, transfection of p75NGFR with mutations in the cytoplasmic domain resulted in an inability of NGF to elicit tyrosine phosphorylation of intracellular substrates, indicating that p75NGFR is involved in initiating phosphorylation events by NGF. Even though the p75NGFR receptor does not possess any inherent tyrosine kinase activity, these experiments demonstrate that the p75NGFR has a potential role in NGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. 
Effect of a cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase inhibitor, DN-9693, on myocardial reperfusion injury. A new cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase inhibitor, DN-9693, was examined to see whether myocardial reperfusion injury could be reduced in a setting of cardioplegic arrest through its antiaggregation effect on leukocytes. Isolated rabbit heart models with whole blood perfusion were used, and 18 hearts were divided into three groups according to the reperfusion method: control (G-1, n = 5), DN-9693 (G-2, n = 7), and leukocyte depletion (G-3, n = 6). The hearts were subjected to 120 minutes of cold global ischemia under crystalloid cardioplegia followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion. A dose of 20 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 of DN-9693 was administered in G-2, and a leukocyte removal filter was used in G-3 during reperfusion. Ultrastructural changes in mitochondrial injuries, intracellular edema, and capillary injuries of the myocardium showed worse changes in G-1 than in G-2 and G-3. Under microscopic study, the intracapillary leukocyte count was significantly higher in G-1 than in G-2 and G-3. Recovery of rate-pressure product, left ventricular developed pressure, and coronary flow were significantly better in G-2 and G-3 than in G-1. There were no significant differences between G-2 and G-3 for all these indices. These results indicate that reperfusion with leukocyte-depleted blood attenuates reperfusion myocardial injury and DN-9693 has a comparable myocardial protective effect with possible inhibition of leukocyte aggregation. 
The role of contraception in the development of postmolar gestational trophoblastic tumor. From January 1974 to June 1988, 299 evaluable patients were referred to the John I. Brewer Trophoblastic Disease Center of Northwestern University Cancer Center for treatment and/or follow-up of a hydatidiform mole (N = 162) or postmolar gestational trophoblastic tumor (N = 137). The type of contraception and other prognostic factors before and after evacuation were correlated with the development of gestational trophoblastic tumor using both univariate and multivariate analysis. There was no relationship between pre-hydatidiform mole contraception and the development of gestational trophoblastic tumor. Oral contraceptives (OCs) were used by 139 patients (46%), barrier methods by 141 patients (47%), intrauterine devices (IUDs) by two patients (1%), and no contraception by 17 patients (6%). The risk of developing gestational trophoblastic tumor was compared between patients using versus not using: OCs--33 versus 57% (P less than .001), barrier methods--53 versus 40% (P = .30), IUD--100 versus 46% (P = .21), and any contraceptive method--43 versus 88% (P less than .001). The dose of estrogens could be determined in 75 patients taking OCs; 14 of 49 (29%) of the patients taking less than 50 micrograms versus nine of 26 (35%) taking 50 micrograms or more developed gestational trophoblastic tumor (P = .78). Stepwise logistic regression analysis demonstrated that the type of contraceptive used was the most important prognostic factor in gestational trophoblastic tumor development (P less than .0001), followed by the occurrence of theca-lutein cysts (P less than .0001), Asian maternal race (P = .02), lesser time from the last menstrual period (P = .005), and greater maternal age (P = .04). 
Removal of massive right atrial thrombus guided by transesophageal echocardiography. Formation of massive right atrial thrombi around a peritoneovenous shunt is a known complication of these devices. Removal of an obstructive right atrial thrombus requires cardiopulmonary bypass and has been associated with a high morbidity and mortality. Transesophageal echocardiography was used in this case to diagnose and guide the surgical removal of a massive right atrial thrombus. 
Amikacin pharmacokinetics in patients receiving high-dose cancer chemotherapy. We retrospectively analyzed amikacin pharmacokinetics in 28 patients (mean age, 47.4 +/- 13.6 years) who received high-dose chemotherapy during a neutropenic febrile episode. Patients received an experimental protocol of high-dose anticancer chemotherapy. Amikacin pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated from two or more concentrations in serum around a single dose by the method of Sawchuck and Zaske (J. Pharmacokinet. Biopharm. 4:183-195, 1976). Predicted parameters were calculated by using standard methods. The observed amikacin volume of distribution and clearance were significantly greater and the elimination half-life was longer than predicted (0.38 +/- 0.13 versus 0.25 liter/kg [P = 0.0001], 1.51 +/- 0.92 versus 1.17 +/- 0.38 liters/h/kg [P = 0.012], and 3.8 +/- 2.4 versus 2.9 +/- 1.1 h [P = 0.011], respectively). Multivariate analysis revealed that albumin correlated negatively and creatinine correlated positively with the volume of distribution and the elimination half-life. Creatinine and the percentage below the ideal body weight correlated negatively and hematocrit correlated positively with clearance. Administration of dosage regimens based on predicted pharmacokinetic parameters yielded subtherapeutic amikacin concentrations in serum in our patients. Because of the increased dosage requirements and the need for adequate antibiotic treatment in this population, we suggest guidelines for empiric dosing for patients with advanced cancer receiving intensive chemotherapy. 
Autoimmune Addison's disease and thyrotoxic thyroiditis presenting as encephalopathy in twins. An 11 year old boy who presented with neuropsychiatric symptoms including delirium and pronounced agitation was found to have simultaneous onset of autoimmune adrenocortical insufficiency and hyperthyroidism. His identical twin also had hyperthyroidism and six months later developed symptoms of adrenocortical insufficiency. In children presenting with neuropsychiatric symptoms, adrenal (or pituitary) and other endocrine disorders should be considered. 
Treatment of vasospasm with a 480-nm pulsed-dye laser. Laser energy at a wavelength of 480 nm was applied in 1-microseconds pulses of 3 to 10 mJ to two models of vasospasm. Rabbit common carotid arteries (CCA's) were constricted chronically by the application of human blood within a silicone sheath. Peak vasospasm developed 24 to 48 hours later, and persisted for up to 6 days. Endovascular laser treatment was delivered to 40 CCA's via a 200-microns diameter silica quartz fiber introduced through the femoral artery. The CCA caliber increased from 60% of the pre-vasospasm control diameter to a minimum post-laser diameter of 83% of control. No instances of laser-induced perforation or of arterial thrombosis were observed for up to 60 days after treatment. Prophylactic laser application to nine normal vessels was able to attenuate the development of vasospasm if blood was applied immediately thereafter (88% vs. 59% of control diameter, p less than 0.02), but not if blood was applied 7 days later. Studies in 16 normal CCA's established that there was a considerable margin between the laser energy required to induce dilatation and that which caused perforation, providing that the fiber remained relatively central within the artery. Morphological examination demonstrated focal loss of endothelial cells immediately after laser application, followed approximately 7 days later by the development of areas of intimal hyperplasia. Only minimal changes were observed in the medial or adventitial layers. In a second study, the basilar artery of seven dogs was constricted chronically by two intracisternal injections of autologous blood 3 days apart. Five dogs received endovascular laser treatment 7 or 10 days after the first injection, when basilar artery diameter was reduced to a mean of 61% and 77% of control, respectively. Immediately following treatment, basilar artery diameter increased to 104% and 102% of resting diameter, respectively. Both untreated and laser-treated arteries were smaller than the control diameter at 30 days (80% and 82%, respectively), but in each group the vasodilatory response to hypercapnia was preserved. These findings indicate that 1-microsecond laser pulses are well tolerated by systemic and cerebral arteries in two different animal models, and suggest that the 480-nm pulsed-dye laser may have an application for the treatment or prophylaxis of cerebral vasospasm. 
Acute reversible hypoxemia in systemic lupus erythematosus. OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of unexplained reversible hypoxemia in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and to assess the relation between hypoxemia and elevated plasma levels of complement split products. DESIGN: Cohort study. SETTING: Inpatient and outpatient facilities of the New York University Medical Center/Bellevue Hospital and the Hospital for Joint Diseases. PATIENTS: Case patients were 22 patients hospitalized with disease exacerbation and no evidence of parenchymal lung disease on chest roentgenogram. Four patients with stable disease were followed in the outpatient clinic, and five healthy normal volunteers served as controls. MEASUREMENTS: Plasma levels of complement split products (C3a, factor Bb fragment), alveolar-arterial (A-a) Po2 gradients, and pulmonary function were measured. MAIN RESULTS: Nine episodes of hypoxemia or hypocapnia (mean A-a gradient, 30.4 +/- 4.8 mm Hg) or both (despite normal chest roentgenogram results) were noted in six hospitalized patients (group 1). Gas exchange improved within 72 hours of steroid therapy (mean A-a gradient, 11.6 +/- 4.3 mm Hg; P less than 0.01). These patients had an elevated initial mean C3a level (938.4 +/- 246.8 ng/mL) that decreased within 72 hours (407.8 +/- 80.9 ng/mL; P less than 0.01), concomitant with improved oxygenation. Ventilation-perfusion scans, obtained for four of six group 1 patients, excluded pulmonary emboli. Four hospitalized patients (group 2) had a normal A-a gradient (mean, 7.5 +/- 2.7 mm Hg). The mean C3a level of this group (358.3 +/- 39.2 ng/mL) was lower than that of group 1 (P less than 0.05). Four patients with stable disease (group 3) had a mean A-a gradient and a mean C3a level of 3.3 +/- 2.7 mm Hg and 237.8 +/- 105.7 ng/mL, respectively, similar to values found in five normal volunteers, in whom the mean A-a gradient was 3.7 +/- 1.7 mm Hg and the mean C3a level was 124.8 +/- 9.2 ng/mL. CONCLUSION: A syndrome of reversible hypoxemia, unassociated with parenchymal lung disease, is unexpectedly common in acutely ill, hospitalized patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. The pathogenesis of this syndrome is unclear, although the data are compatible with the hypothesis that hypoxemia may be related to pulmonary leukoaggregation. 
Enteral feeding as sole treatment for Crohn's disease: controlled trial of whole protein v amino acid based feed and a case study of dietary challenge. A controlled trial was performed to compare enteral feeding with either an amino acid based feed or a whole protein feed as sole treatment for active Crohn's disease. Twenty four patients were studied (nine with ileal, 11 with ileocolonic, and four with colonic disease). Both feeds proved effective; nine of 13 patients randomised to receive the amino acid based feed were in clinical remission within three weeks as defined by a simple activity index compared with eight of 11 treated with the whole protein feed. Patients in clinical remission were then crossed over onto the other feed. None of the six patients who were changed to the whole protein feed relapsed over the subsequent three week period compared with three of seven patients who were changed to the amino acid based feed. In responders the median serum C reactive protein concentration fell from 21 mg/l (range 9-82) on entry to 6 mg/l (range 3-19) at six weeks. Seven patients relapsed within eight months of starting solid food (mean 3.7 months), while nine were still in remission (follow up period 3-9 months, median six months). Detailed studies of staged reintroduction of food and permitted food additives were carried out over a four year period in a patient with extensive stricturing small bowel Crohn's disease who had been brought into remission by open treatment with enteral feeding. Carrageenan, other permitted emulsifiers, bread, meat, potatoes, oranges, refined sugar, dairy produce, flour, and rice were all reintroduced without any objective ill effect, but green vegetables provoked a clinical and biochemical relapse within one week of introduction. 
An open-label study of high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin in severe childhood asthma. Eight pediatric patients with severe steroid-dependent asthma were enrolled in an open-label trial of high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in an attempt to decrease their steroid requirements. Monthly therapy with high-dose IVIG resulted in a threefold decrease in both maintenance oral corticosteroid dose and in extra oral corticosteroids needed for control of exacerbations of asthma. This was accompanied by significant improvements in peak expiratory flow rates and in symptom-score rating. An immunomodulatory effect of IVIG was suggested by the changes in immediate skin test reactivity. Seven of the eight patients demonstrated one or more reactions to a panel of allergens before therapy. During the course of the trial, there was a progressive diminution in skin test reactivity with a 100-fold reduction in sensitivity at the completion of 6 months of therapy. In this preliminary study, the reduction in steroid requirements, improvement in symptoms and peak flow measurements, and diminution in immediate skin test reactivity support a potential role for IVIG in the treatment of severe steroid-dependent asthma. A larger, randomized trial now appears warranted. 
Venous thromboembolism after brain tumor surgery: a retrospective review. We retrospectively reviewed the incidence rate of clinical postoperative deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in 1703 patients undergoing initial craniotomy for meningioma, glioma, or cerebral metastasis. The incidence rate of clinical thromboembolic complications was 1.59% for all tumor groups within the first 4 weeks of surgery. Patients undergoing surgery for meningiomas had a statistically significant increased risk of thromboembolism despite fewer overall perioperative risk factors, when compared with the other tumor groups. The tumor-specific incidence rates of deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism for meningioma, glioma, and metastasis were 3.09%, 0.97%, and 1.03%, respectively. Whether this difference was a result of increased surgical time or an inherent property of meningiomas could not be ascertained. 
Loss of heterozygosity suggests multiple genetic alterations in pheochromocytomas and medullary thyroid carcinomas. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at specific loci may help localize tumor suppressor genes involved in the formation of various familial and sporadic tumors. In addition, the genetic loci for a number of familial tumor syndromes have been mapped by linkage analysis. To explore the possible role of tumor suppressor genes in endocrine tumors, we tested 41 pheochromocytomas (34 sporadic and 7 familial) and 11 medullary thyroid cancers (MTC) (10 sporadic and 1 familial) for LOH near a variety of potentially important genetic loci: (a) the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) locus on chromosome 10; (b) the von Hippel-Lindau locus on 3p; and (c) the p53 and neurofibromatosis 1 loci on 17. We also examined chromosomes 1p and 22q because previous studies in a small number of pheochromocytomas and MTCs suggested LOH in these regions. Background rates for LOH were assessed using several "random" probes. Finally, we examined a number of clinical and histologic characteristics of these tumors for possible correlations with specific genetic alterations. LOH in the region of the MEN 2A locus was uncommon (0% for MTCs, 5% for pheochromocytomas). However, we found significant allelic losses in pheochromocytomas on chromosomes 1p (42%), 3p (16%), 17p (24%), and 22q (31%). We also noted a correlation between LOH on 1p and urinary excretion of metanephrine by these patients (P = 0.02). LOH on 1p, 3p, and 17p also appeared to be associated with increased tumor volume. Analysis of the smaller number of MTCs demonstrated allelic losses on chromosomes 1p and 22q. Our results suggest that tumor formation and/or progression in pheochromocytomas and MTCs involves multiple genes, analogous with the model proposed for colon carcinoma. 
Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma. Immunocytochemical study of 32 cases. To study the histogenesis of and determine the most useful markers for diagnosing anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC), 32 cases, including 2 with numerous osteoclast-like cells, were stained with a battery of antibodies to epithelial (keratin, epithelial membrane antigen [EMA], carcinoembryonic antigen [CEA]), mesenchymal (vimentin, desmin, muscle-specific actin [MSA], Factor VIII-related antigen [FVIII:RAg]), endocrine (thyroglobulin, calcitonin, chromogranin [Cg]), lymphocytic (leukocyte common antigen [LCA]), histiocytic (alpha-1-antitrypsin [alpha 1AT], alpha-1-antichymotrypsin [alpha 1AChy], KP1), melanocytic (HMB-45), and Schwann cell (S-100 protein) markers. Five tumors were associated with papillary carcinoma. In one of these cases, a morphologic continuum between the well-differentiated carcinoma and the ATC was visualized by their positive immunostaining for both vimentin and keratin, thus supporting the hypothesis that the latter tumor originated from the former. Twenty-five (78.1%) tumors expressed keratin, 10 (31.3%) reacted for EMA, and 3 (9.4%) expressed CEA, confirming the epithelial nature of this neoplasm. Reactivity for thyroglobulin was seen in a small number of cells in five (15.6%) thyroglobulin was seen in a small number of cells in five (15.6%) ATCs. Because all of the cases that expressed keratin also stained positively for EMA, CEA, or thyroglobulin, it is believed that keratin is the most useful epithelial marker for diagnosis of ATC. A lack of reactivity for calcitonin and Cg indicates that these tumors are not derived from C cells, as has been proposed by some authors. Reactivity for KP1 (CD68), a monoclonal antibody that reacts with a macrophage-associated antigen, occurred in the osteoclast-like cells but not in the anaplastic tumor cells. This finding, together with negative keratin staining of the osteoclast-like cells, indicates that these cells are not epithelial in nature and therefore should be considered reactive rather than neoplastic. Thirty tumors (93.8%) expressed vimentin, 15 (46.9%) marked for alpha 1AChy, 11 (34.4%) exhibited alpha 1AT, and 11 (34.4%) expressed S-100 protein. Because all of these markers can be seen in a wide variety of tumors of different histogeneses, they have no value in the diagnosis of ATC. Although immunostaining for FVIII:RAg, desmin, and MSA was negative in all of these tumors, these markers can help to differentiate between ATCs and some soft tissue sarcomas with which they can be confused. 
Acute appendicitis following blunt abdominal trauma. Incidence or coincidence? Inflammation of the appendix is a common cause of acute abdominal pain. The etiology and pathophysiology of appendicitis have been well described. The initiating factor often is obstruction of the appendiceal lumen by inspissated stool, barium, food, parasites, or hyperplastic lymphoid tissue. Two patients have been identified who developed appendicitis temporally related to blunt abdominal trauma, without other clear etiology. Although absolute documentation of trauma as an etiologic factor in these cases is difficult, theoretical mechanisms for the occurrence are discussed. In the setting of right lower quadrant pain following mild to moderate blunt abdominal trauma, acute appendicitis should be considered as a possibility. 
Continuous interleukin-2 and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes as treatment of advanced melanoma. A national biotherapy study group trial. Melanoma metastases were harvested from 82 patients for the purpose of growing and expanding tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). Tumor tissue cell suspensions were incubated with interleukin-2 (IL-2), followed by repeated exposure to tumor antigen with or without OKT3 monoclonal antibody (MoAb). Initial growth success was achieved in 56 of 82 cultures (72%). Efforts were made to expand 26 of these 56 cultures for therapeutic TIL; 23 of 26 early cultures (88%) were successfully expanded for in vivo therapy. It took a mean of 78.5 +/- 25.4 days to grow sufficient TIL for treatment. Therapy included cyclophosphamide (1 g/m2) on day 1, followed by a 96-hour continuous infusion of IL-2 (18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d) on days 2 to 5, and approximately 10(11) (mean 1.49 +/- 0.93 x 10(11)) TIL on day 2. Patients who responded received monthly IL-2 as a 96-hour infusion. Median patient age was 45 years of age. Sixty-seven percent of the patients were men. Performance status was 0 to 1 in 77% of patients. Thirty-four percent of the patients had liver metastases. The usual IL-2 toxicities were seen. Response rate for 21 patients was 24% (95% confidence interval, 10% to 49%). One complete response was achieved with cells 98% CD4+; four partial responses were achieved with cells 80%, 94%, 98%, and 98% CD8+, respectively. Four of eight patients who received TIL, which had never been stimulated with OKT3, had tumor response. The authors conclude that a treatment plan for IL-2/TIL is technically difficult, costly, and effective for only a minority of patients. Overall, clinical results are not clearly superior to those obtained with other IL-2 regimens. 
Somatosensory function following dorsal root entry zone lesions in patients with neurogenic pain or spasticity. The goal of this study was to assess the effects of the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) lesioning procedure, microsurgical DREZ-otomy (MDT), on spinal cord somatosensory function based on peri- and intraoperative clinical and electrophysiological data. The study was performed prospectively on a series of 20 patients suffering from either chronic neurogenic pain or spasticity. Physiological observations were made of the intraoperative evoked electrospinographic recordings as collected from the surface of the spinal cord. The MDT procedure produced analgesia or severe hypalgesia, moderate hypesthesia, and only slight deficits in proprioception and cutaneous spatial discrimination on the body segments operated on. These clinical data correlated well with evoked electrospinographic recordings, which showed a moderate effect of MDT on presynaptic compound action potentials recorded from the spinal cord (N11 and N21), a partial or even reversible effect on the cortical postcentral N20 wave, a more marked effect on the postsynaptic dorsal horn waves N13 and N24 related to large primary afferent fibers, and a disappearance of dorsal horn waves related to finer afferents (N2 and possibly N3). These data provide evidence for an acceptably selective action of MDT on spinal cord nociceptive mechanisms, and for a partial, often slight, involvement of the other somatosensory domains. The presence of abnormal evoked electrospinographic waves is discussed in relation to the mechanisms of neurogenic pain and spasticity. The hypothesis of a "retuning" of the dorsal horn as the mode of action of MDT is presented. 
A prospective study of aspirin use and primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in women OBJECTIVE. The aim of the study was to examine prospectively the association between regular aspirin use and the risk of a first myocardial infarction and other cardiovascular events in women. DESIGN. Prospective cohort study including 6 years of follow-up. SETTING. Registered nurses residing in 11 US states. PARTICIPANTS. US registered nurses (n = 87,678) aged 34 to 65 years and free of diagnosed coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer at baseline. Followup was 96.7% of total potential person-years of follow-up. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES. Incidence of myocardial infarction, stroke, cardiovascular death, and all important vascular events. RESULTS. During 475,265 person-years of follow-up, we documented 240 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 146 nonfatal strokes, and 130 deaths due to cardiovascular disease (total, 516 important vascular events). Among women who reported taking one through six aspirin per week, the age-adjusted relative risk (RR) of a first myocardial infarction was 0.68 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.52 to 0.89; P = .005), as compared with those women who took no aspirin. After simultaneous adjustment for risk factors for coronary disease, the RR was 0.75 (95% CI, 0.58 to 0.99; P = .04). For women aged 50 years and older, the age-adjusted RR was 0.61 (95% CI, 0.45 to 0.84; P = .002) and the multivariate RR was 0.68 (95% CI, 0.50 to 0.93; P = .02). We observed no alteration in the risk of stroke (multivariate RR = 0.99; P = .94). The multivariate RR of cardiovascular death was 0.89 (P = .56) and of important vascular events was 0.85 (P = .12). When examined separately, the results were nearly identical for the subgroups who took one through three and four through six aspirin per week. Among women who took seven or more aspirin per week, there were no apparent reductions in risk. CONCLUSIONS. The use of one through six aspirin per week appears to be associated with a reduced risk of a first myocardial infarction among women. A randomized trial in women is necessary, however, to provide conclusive data on the role of aspirin in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in women. 
National High Blood Pressure Education Program Working Group Report on High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy This consensus report focuses the presentation, pathophysiology, and management of the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy expanding on recommendations first presented in 1988 by the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure. Practicing physicians should determine whether a patient's hypertension during pregnancy falls into the classification of (1) chronic hypertension, (2) preeclampsia, (3) preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension, or (4) transient hypertension. The distinction, for management considerations, is made between hypertension that is present before pregnancy (chronic and preexisting) and that occurring as part of the pregnancy-specific condition preeclampsia. When maternal blood pressure reaches diastolic levels of 100 mm Hg or greater, treatment should be instituted to avoid hypertensive vascular damage. The report includes a discussion of antihypertensive therapy specific to the chronic or acute hypertension occurring concomitantly with pregnancy. The roles of calcium supplementation and low-dose aspirin to prevent preeclampsia and chronic and transient hypertension are under investigation. 
Globoid cell leukodystrophy: a family with both late-infantile and adult type. We present a patient with adult-onset globoid cell leukodystrophy (GBL) who had almost complete deficiency of galactosylceramide beta-galactosidase. A brother of the index patient deteriorated neurologically and died at the age of 4, probably from the late-infantile form of the disease. In this family, two clinical types of GBL are probably different expressions of an identical genotype. 
Elimination of clonogenic breast cancer cells from human bone marrow. A comparison of immunotoxin treatment with chemoimmunoseparation using 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide, monoclonal antibodies, and magnetic microspheres. Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) may aid in the management of breast cancer, but is currently limited to patients without bone marrow metastases. In earlier studies, 5 logs of malignant clonogenic breast cancer cells could be eliminated from human bone marrow using a combination of chemoseparation with 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC) and immunoseparation with monoclonal antibodies and magnetic microspheres. In this report the authors compare chemoimmunoseparation to treatment with immunotoxins for elimination of tumor cells from human bone marrow and for the preservation of normal precursors. Breast cancer cells from each of five cell lines were mixed with a tenfold excess of irradiated human bone marrow cells. Treatment with a combination of five immunotoxins reduced clonogenic tumor cell growth by 1.8 to 5.5 logs depending upon the cell line. With two of the five cell lines, clonogenic tumor cells were eliminated quantitatively. Using the CAMA-1 breast cancer cell line, treatment with multiple immunotoxins was compared with chemoimmunoseparation with 4-HC, a panel of five unconjugated monoclonal antibodies and magnetic microspheres. Chemoimmunoseparation eliminated 3.5 to 5.4 logs of malignant cells, while preserving 21% of Colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) and 37% of burst-forming unit-erythrocyte (BFU-E). No clonogenic breast cancer cells could be detected. Immunotoxin treatment eliminated 2.2 to 5.4 logs of clonogenic breast cancer cells, but had no effect on the bone marrow precursors. In seven of ten experiments, however, clonogenic breast cancer cells remained after immunotoxin treatment. Consequently, treatment with 4-HC, multiple murine monoclonal antibodies and magnetic microspheres provided more consistent elimination of tumor cells than separation with immunotoxins, but was significantly more toxic for marrow precursors. 
Low-back pain in adolescent athletes: detection of stress injury to the pars interarticularis with SPECT. The authors reviewed 1 year of experience with planar and single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) bone scintigraphy in 162 young patients with symptoms of low-back pain possibly related to stress injury to the pars interarticularis or spondylolysis. Planar scintigraphy and SPECT revealed no abnormality in 91 patients (56%). All abnormalities detected on planar images were also detectable with SPECT. SPECT showed an abnormal focus of radiotracer uptake in the lumbar spine in 71 patients (44%). In 32 of these 71 patients, these findings were also evident with planar scintigraphy. In 39 of these 71 patients, use of SPECT. Correlation with contemporaneous radiographs was made in 72 cases (including computed tomography in 10 cases). SPECT can be used to detect stress injury not seen with planar bone imaging or radiography and is recommended in evaluation of low-back pain in young athletes. 
Sucralfate retention enemas in solitary rectal ulcer. The conservative treatment of solitary rectal ulcer is generally unsatisfactory. Six patients, aged 27-54 years, with recurrent solitary rectal ulcer were treated with topical administration of sucralfate in a daily dose of 2 g twice a day for 6 weeks. Four patients experienced complete relief of symptoms and the remaining two patients had marked improvement. Although macroscopic healing of the ulcer was apparent in all, histologic improvement was not appreciable. Five of the six patients remain in remission during a follow-up period of 4-14 months (mean, 8 +/- 1.5 months). Recurrence was observed in one patient at 5 months, which satisfactorily resolved with sucralfate enemas. From these preliminary observations we infer that solitary rectal ulcer can be effectively treated with topical application of sucralfate. 
Relation between mixed venous oxygen saturation and cardiac index. Nonlinearity and normalization for oxygen uptake and hemoglobin. The ability of mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2) monitoring to reflect changes in cardiac index (CI) with therapy in critically ill patients is unclear. To this end, SvO2 and CI were measured before and during an infusion of enoximone and/or dobutamine in 30 patients with advanced heart failure. A nonlinear relationship was observed between SvO2 and CI with the nonlinear correlation coefficient being 0.52. On normalizing for individual differences in hemoglobin and oxygen consumption, this correlation coefficient became 0.90. Further analysis of individual data was performed using linear regression, and the slopes and correlation coefficients were found to span a wide range slope: -10.0 to 30.9 min-m2/L, r: -0.27 to 0.99). However, the mean slope and correlation coefficient for patients with baseline CI and SvO2 less than 21/min/m2 and less than 55 percent were 18.3 min-m2/L and 0.87, respectively, while those for the remainder of patients were only 3.1 min-m2/L and 0.42, respectively. Thus, the nonlinear correlation coefficient of the SvO2-CI relationship in a group of patients is dependent on the homogeneity of their oxygen consumption and hemoglobin concentration. Furthermore, the ability of SvO2 to serve as a therapeutic indicator in any given patient is dependent on baseline SvO2 and CI. 
Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy in the management of acute and chronic limb ischaemia. A group of 54 patients with acute or chronic limb ischaemia were initially treated with low dose intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy using streptokinase (10,000 units h-1) or plasminogen activator (0.5 mg h-1). Complete thrombolysis was obtained in 90 per cent of patients with symptoms of less than 1 week duration, and in 50 per cent with symptoms of greater than 1 week (P less than 0.05). Successful lysis in 36 patients was followed by successful bypass surgery in seven, percutaneous angioplasty in 13, no further treatment in 13, repeat thrombolysis in two and amputation in one. Failed therapy was associated with major amputation in 40 per cent. One patient died of haemorrhage and another of stroke as a direct result of thrombolytic treatment. The most common complication was haematoma at the site of cannulation of the vessel. Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy can be very useful for the management of acute and chronic limb ischaemia, but complications do occur and patients should be carefully selected. 
Comparison of the effects of ureteral calculosis and occlusion on muscular sensitivity to painful stimulation in rats. An animal model of muscular hyperalgesia was developed. In humans, this disorder follows painful crises due to ureteral calculosis. Changes in vocalization thresholds to electrical stimulation of the obliquus externus muscle of both sides were studied in a group of rats with chronically implanted muscles before and after the production of a stone in one ureter. In another group of rats with implanted muscles, it had been verified preliminarily that these thresholds did not vary widely from day to day. On the contrary, a significant lowering in threshold (max 31%) in the muscle ipsilateral to the implanted ureter appeared the day after the production of the stone and persisted for the subsequent 10 days of observation, although less pronounced during the last 5 days. Hypersensitivity to manual pressure was also observed, mainly in the ipsilateral muscle, in most rats during the same period. In order to differentiate between the effects due to the presence of the stone in the ureteral lumen and those due to the spontaneous occlusion which frequently occurred in the implanted ureter, 2 other groups of rats were studied. In one, a unilateral ureteral ligature was performed; in the other, the production of a stone was combined with a ligature (placed distally to the stone). Ligature alone never induced any hyperalgesic effect. Stone plus ligature produced a marked hyperalgesia (max 39%) in the ipsilateral muscle, which lasted for only 5 days. It is concluded that the ureteral stone is the factor responsible for the appearance of muscular hyperalgesia. 
Genetic aspects of admissions to a paediatric intensive care unit. Of 821 consecutive admissions to a paediatric intensive care unit, 47 (5.7%) were for chromosomal or monogenic disorders. These patients had more readmissions, longer mean stays, and a higher mortality rate than the group as a whole. In two of the four cases that died of single gene disorders, failure to store DNA made genetic counseling difficult. 
Late follow-up of carotid endarterectomy with venous patch angioplasty. Ninety carotid endarterectomies with venous patch angioplasty were performed in 83 patients between July 1980 and December 1985. The primary indication for patching was a small-caliber internal carotid artery (ICA) with a diameter less than 3.0 mm in 54 arteriotomies (60%). Patency of the endarterectomy was evaluated by completion arteriography in all instances. Follow-up was conducted after an intermediate postoperative period of 21 +/- 12.5 months in 69 sides by arteriography. A late follow-up was conducted at 55.4 +/- 11.2 months either by arteriography (in 45 sides) or by carotid duplex scanning (in 11 sides). Twenty-one patients with 23 endarterectomies died, only 1 of a cerebral event. Seven patients moved or refused study and five were lost to follow-up. Three recurrent stenoses and five carotid occlusions developed by the time of the intermediate follow-up. By the time of late follow-up, three additional patients developed recurrent stenoses. Our results suggest that recurrent stenosis continues to develop with a longer period of follow-up in patients undergoing venous patch angioplasty with carotid endarterectomy. 
Headaches due to cerebrovascular disease. Subarachnoid hemorrhage causes sudden, severe headache and requires immediate medical and surgical diagnosis and treatment. A CT scan is the first choice for correct diagnosis. In order to prevent rebleeding, delays in treatment should be avoided. Intraparenchymal cerebral hemorrhage is now often recognized by means of CT scanning and sometimes is a cause of headache. Cerebellar hemorrhage commonly causes occipital headache and is an indication for immediate surgical intervention, although small cerebellar hemorrhages can be treated conservatively. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease is frequently accompanied by headache, but its etiology remains uncertain. Thrombosis of the cerebrovenous system is a less frequent cause of head pain than that of the arterial system, but it usually shows characteristic neurologic signs. Following carotid endarterectomy or superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass surgery, the patient may have moderate to severe unilateral headaches, probably as a result of platelet aggregation and serotonin release. 
Sodium and volume sensitivity of blood pressure. Age and pressure change over time. Salt sensitivity has been implicated in the age-related increase in blood pressure. We studied the reproducibility of a rapid method for assessing sodium sensitivity and resistance of blood pressure as well as the effect of age on this phenomenon. Blood pressure after volume expansion with 2 l intravenous saline (0.9%) over 4 hours was compared with that after 1 day of 10 mmol sodium chloride intake and 3 and 40 mg oral doses of furosemide. Normal and hypertensive subjects (n = 28) were studied twice within a year. Cross-sectional observations of the effect of age were made from studies in 230 hypertensive and 430 normotensive subjects. Longitudinal observations of blood pressure change over time were made 10 or more years after categorization of sodium responsivity in 31 subjects. The blood pressure response was reproducible in 28 subjects studied twice (r = 0.56, p less than 0.002). Four subjects changed salt-responsiveness status and six were indeterminate on restudy. Sodium sensitivity of blood pressure increased significantly with increasing age in the entire population (n = 660, r = -0.38, p less than 0.001). The relation was more striking in hypertensive subjects (n = 230, r = -0.31, p less than 0.001) in whom a progressive increase in salt sensitivity with decades was seen than in the normotensive group (n = 430, r = -0.19, p less than 0.01) in whom salt sensitivity was not observed until the sixth decade. Salt-sensitive subjects had a significantly greater increase in systolic (p less than 0.001) and diastolic (p less than 0.01) pressure over time than those who were salt-resistant. Salt sensitivity is a reproducible phenomenon that is related to the age-associated increase in blood pressure characteristic of industrialized societies. In addition, salt sensitivity can be shown to be a predictor of subsequent, age-related blood pressure increase. 
Aztreonam in the treatment of gram-negative bacterial meningitis. Aztreonam was administered to 122 patients with presumptive or confirmed gram-negative bacillary meningitis in an open, multinational study. The antibiotic was administered at a dosage of 1-2 g to adults, 50 mg/kg to children greater than 2 years old, and 30 mg/kg to infants three or four times daily. Seventy-seven patients had microbiologically confirmed gram-negative meningitis due to an aztreonam-susceptible organism and received aztreonam for at least 48 hours. Haemophilus influenzae was the most frequently recovered pathogen (40 patients), followed by Enterobacteriaceae (16 patients), Neisseria meningitidis (15 patients), and Pseudomonas species (six patients). All but four patients were microbiologically cured. Microbiologic failure was associated with either a persistent intracerebral abscess (one patient) or a foreshortened course of therapy before microbiologic reevaluation and death (at 48 hours, 48 hours, and 72 hours after initiation of treatment, respectively). These data suggest that aztreonam is effective in the treatment of gram-negative bacillary meningitis caused by susceptible organisms. 
The clinical significance and pathophysiology of stress-related gastric mucosal hemorrhage. Critically ill patients admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) develop a spectrum of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions that may result in mucosal hemorrhage and subsequent morbidity and mortality. Although stress-related mucosal lesions may be detected endoscopically in most critically ill patients, the incidence of clinically significant bleeding from these lesions is difficult to establish because of the heterogeneity in patient populations, the definitions of bleeding, and the methods of monitoring in various studies. Bleeding occurs overall in approximately 16% of patients not receiving prophylaxis, but the incidence of life-threatening hemorrhage appears to be much lower (less than 6%). In light of the increasing use of pharmacologic prophylaxis in ICUs, the clinical impact of stress-related bleeding and its prophylaxis is discussed in terms of bleeding incidence, morbidity and mortality, cost, and potential side effects. The pathophysiology of stress-related mucosal ulceration involves the complex interaction of gastric luminal factors, alterations in blood flow and intramucosal pH, and alterations in numerous factors that are normally responsible for maintaining an intact mucosa. The pathophysiology of stress ulceration is discussed, with an emphasis on cause-and-effect relationships, evolving areas of investigation, and implications for prophylaxis and treatment. 
Cervical paraganglioma with subsequent intracranial and intraspinal metastases. Case report. Paragangliomas, tumors derived from the extra-adrenal paraganglion system, have commonly been found in the retroperitoneum, abdomen, mediastinum, skull base, and neck. Rare intraspinal cases have included involvement of the cauda equina and filum terminale, and a recent case has been reported of thoracic cord paraganglioma with metastasis to the cauda equina. The authors present the case of a patient with a cervical paraganglioma who underwent subtotal resection followed by postoperative irradiation; she subsequently developed multiple intracranial and intraspinal metastases 7 months following the first decompression procedure. 
Comparison of different antibiotic regimens for therapy of 32 cases of Q fever endocarditis. We studied 32 cases of Q fever endocarditis diagnosed in France between January 1985 and December 1989 to evaluate the efficacies of the different regimens of antibiotics used for treatment. Each patient was monitored during the treatment (range, 12 to 60 months), and clinical and biological information was computerized. Various treatments were prescribed, including doxycycline alone (9 cases) or in association with rifampin (4 cases), quinolones (16 cases), or sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (1 case). Two patients died before the beginning of the treatment. Nineteen patients had hemodynamic failure and subsequently underwent valve replacement. Nine valve tissue cultures were positive despite previous antibiotic treatment. In terms of their effects on mortality, the difference between doxycycline alone and doxycycline plus quinolones is statistically significant. We conclude that the addition of quinolones to doxycycline is beneficial. On the basis of clinical, serological, and valve tissue culture results, no treatment was able to cure Q fever endocarditis within 2 years, even with a combination of antibiotics. We advise a minimum duration of treatment of 3 years with therapy combining quinolones and doxycycline. 
How prevalent is cancer family syndrome? Based on an established but pragmatic definition of cancer family syndrome as the presence of three or more relatives affected by colorectal cancer in a first degree kinship, the contribution of this syndrome to the total cancer burden in Northern Ireland has been studied by investigating all non-polyposis probands under 55 years old at histological diagnosis between 1976 and 1978. Family interviews were possible for 95% (n = 205) of all non-polyposis probands and verification of vital status or medical history was obtained for 98% of 1811 first degree relatives. The prevalence of cancer family syndrome was between 1 and 2%, a figure some fivefold less than that estimated elsewhere. A proximal tumour excess was not characteristic of the ascertained families. These results may have implications for the identification of susceptible people if screening for high risk groups is considered a worthwhile option for reducing colorectal cancer mortality in the United Kingdom. 
Percutaneous transjugular portosystemic shunt. OBJECTIVE.--To determine the effectiveness of the Palmaz balloon expandable stent for the creation of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt. The device is designed to achieve portal decompression in patients with variceal hemorrhage secondary to portal hypertension. DESIGN.--Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunting was performed in eight patients during a 9-month period. Mean follow-up was 5 months. PATIENTS.--All patients had cirrhosis with portal hypertension and varices. Bleeding occurred in seven patients from esophageal varices and in one patient from hemorrhoids. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Shunt patency and recurrent variceal hemorrhage. RESULTS.--Shunts created from a transjugular approach between a hepatic and a portal vein (diameters of 8 to 12 mm) lowered the average portosystemic pressure gradient from 36 to 11 mm Hg. Mean postoperative hospital stay was 7.7 days. Complete variceal decompression after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement was identified endoscopically in all eight patients. The patient treated for hemorrhoids rebled and was treated successfully by transfemoral balloon expansion of the shunt diameter from 8 to 12 mm. All shunts were patent at 1 to 9 months (mean, 5 months) of follow-up. CONCLUSION.--Initial results suggest that transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt is a safe and effective method of portal decompression for the treatment of variceal hemorrhage. 
Effects of dietary Ca2+ on erythrocyte Na(+)-transport systems in spontaneously hypertensive rats. 1. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of dietary Ca2+ intake on blood pressure and erythrocyte Na+ transport in spontaneously hypertensive rats. 2. Spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats were fed diets with three different Ca2+ contents, 0.1% (low-Ca2+ diet), 0.6% (normal-Ca2+ diet) and 4.0% (high-Ca2+ diet), between 6 and 20 weeks of age. At 20 weeks of age, the levels of erythrocyte Na+ efflux, as well as Na+ and K+ contents in erythrocytes, were measured. 3. On the low-Ca2+ diet, spontaneously hypertensive rats showed an enhancement of hypertension. Conversely, on the high-Ca2+ diet, they showed an attenuation of the increase in blood pressure. Spontaneously hypertensive rats had a lower erythrocyte Na+ content and increased activity of the Na+ pump at higher levels of dietary Ca2+. Passive Na+ permeability and Na(+)-K+ co-transport were similar in spontaneously hypertensive rats on the low-, normal- and high-Ca2+ diets. There were no significant differences in blood pressure and in Na+ pump activity in WKY on the three different diets. 4. It is concluded that dietary Ca2+ might affect the regulation of blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats by changing the activity of Na+ pump in the cell membrane. 
Incidence and characteristics of preventable iatrogenic cardiac arrests We studied the contribution of iatrogenic illness to cardiac arrest among patients hospitalized in 1981 in a university teaching hospital. During this 1-year period, 28 (14%) of 203 arrests in which resuscitation was attempted followed an iatrogenic complication. Seventeen (61%) of the 28 patients died. The demographic characteristics of patients with iatrogenic arrest did not differ strikingly from those of other patients who arrested. However, patients with iatrogenic arrest were less likely to be in cardiogenic shock or to have suffered an acute myocardial infarction prior to arrest. They were more likely to survive to discharge from the hospital and to be taking digoxin or antiarrhythmic medication prior to arrest. Among the 28 cases of iatrogenic cardiac arrest, 18 (9% of all arrests) might have been prevented by stricter attention to the patient's history, findings on physical examination, and laboratory data. The most common causes of potentially preventable arrest were medication errors and toxic effects (44%) as well as suboptimal response by physicians to clinical signs and symptoms (28%), most frequently dyspnea and tachypnea. Rapid, appropriate response to abnormal drug levels, to electrocardiographic signs of adverse drug effects, and to signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure or toxic effects from digoxin might decrease the incidence of cardiac arrest among hospitalized patients. 
Nutritional support of patients with cancer of the gastrointestinal tract. Malnutrition is extremely common in patients with malignant disease. Whereas the causes are multifactorial, the predominant factor is the imbalance between nutrient intake and host nutrient requirements. Furthermore, the evidence suggests that cachexia is related to abnormal changes in host intermediary metabolism induced by host-tumor interactions, and endogenous peptides such as TNF may be important mediators. The role of nutritional therapy in cancer patients remains to be defined. Clearly, patients with severe malnutrition benefit from nutritional intervention. However, the benefit of nutritional therapy in less severe cases of malnutrition as an adjuvant to oncologic therapy has yet to be established. 
Age-related normal values of signal-averaged electrocardiographic variables after acute myocardial infarction. The study examined standard time domain variables of a signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG) in 328 survivors of acute myocardial infarction. The correlation of these variables with age and the influence of age on the prediction of postinfarction arrhythmic complication (sudden death [n = 12] or sustained ventricular tachycardia, or both [n = 14]) from the SAECG were investigated. Statistically highly significant correlations (p less than or equal to 0.00002) between age and SAECG variables were found. Compared with patients aged less than 60 years, the SAECG-based stratification of arrhythmic complications after myocardial infarction in patients greater than 60 years had lower sensitivity for the same values of specificity and lower specificity for the same values of sensitivity. 
Factors influencing the outcome of congenital heart disease detected prenatally. The diagnosis of structural heart disease before birth is associated with a poor prognosis. Of 222 continuing pregnancies seen in a 10 year period, there has been a 79% mortality. This is inconsistent with published results and current concepts of the outcome for children with cardiac malformation. Of the 222, death occurred in intrauterine life in 57, 87 died as neonates, and 31 in infancy or childhood. There are 47 survivors of whom only five have survived beyond 4 years. Factors influencing the outcome in these cases were examined further. A high mortality was associated with the presence of extracardiac anomalies in 71 (32%) and prenatal cardiac failure in 28 (13%). As many patients were referred for these reasons, referral methods preferentially select patients with a different range of heart disease from that seen postnatally. In addition, some forms of heart disease progress in severity during fetal life. Those involved in the management and counselling after diagnosis of heart disease in early pregnancy must be aware of the additional prenatal factors influencing prognosis and allow for them in making predictions of outcome. 
Proliferation of endocrine cells in the rat stomach caused by drug-induced achlorhydria. Time-related changes of serum gastrin levels, gastrin cell, and enterochromaffinlike cell densities, and proliferation kinetics of these cells have been examined in rats during treatment with the substituted benzimidazole BY 308 over a period of 73 days. Serum gastrin levels increased very rapidly from 74 +/- 6 pg/mL (controls) to 438 +/- 31 pg/mL (day 1) and 727 +/- 68 pg/mL (day 4). Thereafter, a steady increase was observed until day 70 (2097 +/- 208 pg/mL). Enterochromaffinlike cell density was unchanged until day 10, but then increased progressively without reaching a plateau (144% above control on day 73). The labeling index of these cells was enhanced shortly after drug application and remained on a constant elevated level from day 14 to day 73 (about 10-fold to 12-fold above controls from day 14 to day 70). The number of gastrin cells increased rapidly within the first week and reached a plateau after 17 days (96% increase above controls). In contrast to enterochromaffinlike cells, the labeling index did not change immediately but increased on day 7 by 37% and returned beneath control values after day 28. The results suggest that in drug-induced achlorhydria, the progressive increase of enterochromaffinlike cells is explained by an enhanced mitosis, whereas other factors in addition to proliferation are responsible for the augmentation of gastrin cells. 
Independent risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma in French drinkers. The aim of this study was to assess whether markers of hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus infection are independent risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma in drinkers after adjustment for three known risk factors: cirrhosis, age and male sex. Among 2,015 consecutive drinkers admitted, hepatitis C virus antibodies were found by sensitive radioimmunoassay in 1,259. The following five factors have been identified and ranked as risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma in unidimensional and regression analysis: cirrhosis (p less than 0.001), age (p less than 0.001), male sex (p less than 0.001), presence of HBsAg (p less than 0.001) and presence of hepatitis C virus antibodies (p less than 0.03). Among drinkers with cirrhosis, the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma were older (64 +/- 11 yr vs. 56 +/- 9 yr; p less than 0.001), were more often male (93% vs. 65%; p less than 0.0001) and had higher prevalence of HBsAg (9% vs. 2%; p = 0.02) and hepatitis C virus antibodies (41% vs. 26%; p = 0.02). A simple algorithm permitted us to identify a high-risk population of drinkers: the male cirrhotic patient older than 50 yr. The relative risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in this selected population was 17.7 (95% confidence interval = 9.0 to 37.5; p less than 0.0001). From a pragmatic point of view, the detection of HBsAg or hepatitis C virus antibodies, although independently associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, is not useful in increasing the diagnostic value of this algorithm because of the poor sensitivity of these tests. The weak relationships observed between hepatitis C virus antibodies and hepatocellular carcinoma needs confirmation by more accurate tests. 
Antiphospholipid antibodies in cerebral ischemia. In a 2-year prospective study of 146 patients with cerebral ischemia, we compared vascular risk factors for stroke with clinical and laboratory findings, particularly antiphospholipid antibodies. Ten patients (6.8%) were positive for at least one antiphospholipid antibody; one patient had systemic lupus erythematosus, one had rheumatoid arthritis, and the remaining eight fulfilled criteria for the diagnosis of primary antiphospholipid syndrome. These patients were predominantly male, not necessarily young, and 50% of them did not have any other vascular risk factors; there were no significant clinical or paraclinical differences between these patients and those without antiphospholipid antibodies. Outcome in the 10 patients was good, and platelet antiaggregating drugs proved to be useful in preventing further cerebrovascular ischemic events in our patients. 
Rectosigmoid varices and other mucosal changes in patients with portal hypertension. A prospective study was performed to evaluate the prevalence of anorectal varices and their clinical significance as well as to study other proctosigmoidoscopic changes in 75 patients with portal hypertension of diverse etiology. Sixty-seven patients (89.3%) had lower gastrointestinal varices with no significant difference (p greater than 0.05) in prevalence between cirrhosis (92.1%), noncirrhotic portal fibrosis (87%), and extrahepatic portal venous obstruction (85.7%). The rectum was the most common site of lower gastrointestinal varices. External anal and sigmoid colonic varices almost always occurred in the presence of rectal and/or internal anal varices. There was no correlation between the presence of rectosigmoid varices and the severity of esophagogastric mucosal changes or portal hypertension. There was no suggestion that esophageal variceal sclerotherapy influenced the presence of anorectal varices. Seven patients (9.3%) had recent hematochezia, including three patients in whom it occurred in the absence of any upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Varices were the cause of bleeding in at least five patients. An abnormal mucosal vascular pattern in the form of telangiectasias or spiders was seen, irrespective of etiology of portal hypertension, in nine patients (12%). Hemorrhoids were present in 31 patients (41.3%) with an age-related difference (p less than 0.05) between patients with cirrhosis (55.3%) and extrahepatic portal venous obstruction (21.4%). 
Revascularization of infarcted myocardium. Effect on myocardial perfusion assessed with quantified Tl-201 SPECT technique. Myocardial perfusion was studied in 21 patients before and after revascularization of all graftable stenotic vessels following post-infarction anteroapical akinesia and minor dyskinesia. At preoperative and late postoperative evaluation, perfusion abnormalities in identified sectors were quantified with two methods, one (Q1) assessing the extent and the other (Q3) the severity of abnormal perfusion. The preoperative scores with both methods indicated permanent myocardial perfusion defects in all 21 patients and reversible defects, indicating myocardial ischemia, in 16 with Q1 and 14 with Q3. After bypass grafting there was overall reduction of myocardial perfusion defect and of abnormality scores: Notably, 13/21 patients (62%) had decreased permanent myocardial defect score, reflecting reactivation of 'hibernating myocardium'. The findings indicated that obstructed but graftable vessels supplying myocardium with loss of contractile function should be bypassed, since flow contribution to distant, viable myocardium is probable via preserved collateral circulation. This should be particularly relevant for the LAD, because of that artery's septal branches. 
Atrial fibrillation as an independent risk factor for stroke: the Framingham Study. The impact of nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation, hypertension, coronary heart disease, and cardiac failure on stroke incidence was examined in 5,070 participants in the Framingham Study after 34 years of follow-up. Compared with subjects free of these conditions, the age-adjusted incidence of stroke was more than doubled in the presence of coronary heart disease (p less than 0.001) and more than trebled in the presence of hypertension (p less than 0.001). There was a more than fourfold excess of stroke in subjects with cardiac failure (p less than 0.001) and a near fivefold excess when atrial fibrillation was present (p less than 0.001). In persons with coronary heart disease or cardiac failure, atrial fibrillation doubled the stroke risk in men and trebled the risk in women. With increasing age the effects of hypertension, coronary heart disease, and cardiac failure on the risk of stroke became progressively weaker (p less than 0.05). Advancing age, however, did not reduce the significant impact of atrial fibrillation. For persons aged 80-89 years, atrial fibrillation was the sole cardiovascular condition to exert an independent effect on stroke incidence (p less than 0.001). The attributable risk of stroke for all cardiovascular contributors decreased with age except for atrial fibrillation, for which the attributable risk increased significantly (p less than 0.01), rising from 1.5% for those aged 50-59 years to 23.5% for those aged 80-89 years. While these findings highlight the impact of each cardiovascular condition on the risk of stroke, the data suggest that the elderly are particularly vulnerable to stroke when atrial fibrillation is present. 
Rubella susceptibility of an infertile population. The recent trend reported by the CDC reaffirms that rubella continues to be a health care issue and should be a concern particularly for those who care for women in the childbearing age group. Immunization of all susceptible women will not only offer them protection but reduce the pool of susceptible individuals that can transmit the disease. 
Analysis of the colonoscopic findings in patients with rectal bleeding according to the pattern of their presenting symptoms. Patients presenting with rectal bleeding were prospectively categorized according to the pattern of their presentation into those with outlet bleeding (n = 115), suspicious bleeding (n = 59), hemorrhage (n = 27), and occult bleeding (n = 68). All patients underwent colonoscopy and this was complete in 94 percent. There were 34 patients with carcinoma and 69 with adenomas greater than 1 cm diameter. The percentage of neoplasms proximal to the splenic flexure was 1 percent in outlet bleeding, 24 percent with suspicious bleeding, 75 percent with hemorrhage, and 73 percent with occult bleeding. Barium enema was available in 78 patients and was falsely positive for neoplasms in 21 percent and falsely negative in 45 percent. Colonoscopy is the investigation of choice in patients with suspicious, occult, or severe rectal bleeding. Bleeding of a typical outlet pattern may be investigated by flexible sigmoidoscopy. 
Long-term (2 year) beneficial effects of beta-adrenergic blockade with bucindolol in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Beta-adrenergic blockade represents a promising therapeutic approach to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Bucindolol, a new beta-blocker, showed favorable effects in a short-term (3 month) trial in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. To assess long-term response, 20 study patients (7 of 9 patients previously assigned to the placebo group and 13 of 14 patients previously assigned to bucindolol therapy) received long-term bucindolol therapy and were followed up for a mean of 23 +/- 4 months (range 17 to 30). The mean patient age was 49 years (range 29 to 66) and the median duration of disease was 11 months (range 1 to 190). Ten patients were in functional class II and 10 were in class III; 15 patients were men. At the end of the common follow-up time, all 20 patients were alive, 17 continued to receive bucindolol (mean dose 176 mg/day, range 25 to 200), and 2 underwent cardiac transplantation. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased from a baseline value of 25 +/- 8% to 35 +/- 13% (n = 19 pairs, p less than 0.001). Functional class improved in 12, was unchanged in 5 and deteriorated in 3 (p = 0.056). Exercise time was maintained (9.4 +/- 3.1 versus 9.1 +/- 3.5 min, n = 19, p = NS), as was maximal oxygen uptake (19.2 +/- 4.9 versus 18.8 +/- 5.7 ml/kg per min, n = 19, p = NS). Thus, long-term bucindolol therapy leads to substantial increases in ejection fraction and to improved functional class while stable exercise performance is maintained. 
Free-tissue transfer in elderly patients. A retrospective survey was undertaken to evaluate the success of free-tissue transfer (free flap) in the elderly. During a 70-month period, 199 free flaps were performed in 151 patients at the Western Pennsylvania Hospital, 60 of these involving 47 patients over the age of 60. Primary coverage rates differed significantly between the elderly and younger age groups (68.5 versus 85.3 percent, respectively); however, eventual coverage rates (92.6 versus 96.3 percent), minor complication rates (34.0 versus 34.6 percent), mortality rates (2.1 versus 1.0 percent), flap revision rates (32 percent of patients versus 30 percent), and length of postoperative hospitalization (18.7 versus 18.8 days) were not significantly different in the two groups. Among the elderly, significant increases in flap loss rates were noted with the use of end-to-side arterial anastomosis, placement of the anastomosis within a zone of injury, and the use of the gracilis muscle donor site. Our data suggest that the primary cause of free-flap failure is construction of the anastomosis within a zone of injury. Free-tissue transfer is a valuable option in the repair of tissue defects in the elderly and should not be denied as a treatment because of patient age. 
Efficacy and toxicity of thromboxane synthetase inhibitor for cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. The efficacy and possible side effects of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthetase inhibitor in the treatment of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were assessed for 24 patients who presented with grades I to IV of the Hunt and Hess classification. All patients underwent aneurysmal clipping within 48 hours after SAH. Postoperatively, TXA2 synthetase inhibitor, Cataclot [sodium (E)-3-[p-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)phenyl]-2-propenoate] was administered to 13 patients by continuous drip infusion at a dose of 1 microgram/kg/min for 8 to 14 days (group A). The remaining 11 patients did not receive this drug (group B). Of the 13 patients in group A, seven patients (54%) showed no symptomatic vasospasm after SAH. Four patients (31%) developed a transient deterioration of consciousness and/or motor disturbance. Three of these patients fully recovered, while one of them showed a mild neurological deficit on discharge. One patient (8%) developed permanent dysphasia and hemiparesis as a result of ischemic brain damage due to vasospasm. One patient (8%) died of the side effect. On the other hand, of the 11 patients in group B, only three (27%) showed no symptomatic vasospasm. One (9%) patient presented a transient neurological deficit but fully recovered upon discharge. Four patients (36%) showed permanent neurological deficits, although they all could lead an independent life after discharge. The three remaining patients developed a severe disturbance of consciousness caused by ischemia due to vasospasm, and two of them died within 1 month after the onset of SAH. In the group treated with Cataclot, two patients developed an epidural hematoma late during the administration of the drug. Of these two, one patient died of increased intracranial pressure that was accelerated by the complication. These results indicate that TXA2 synthetase inhibitor is effective in not only decreasing the occurrence of symptomatic vasospasm but also reducing the neurological deterioration due to vasospasm after SAH. However, this drug has a hazardous side effect in that it may promote a tendency to bleed, which caused death in one of our patients. 
The incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting in women undergoing laparoscopy is influenced by the day of menstrual cycle. Postoperative nausea and vomiting is a major cause of postoperative morbidity. It can lead to increased recovery time, delaying patient discharge and an increase in hospital costs. Past studies have shown that postoperative nausea and vomiting is more frequent in women than men, appears to elevate around the time of menarche and is reduced around the time of menopause. This retrospective review of a one-year experience of laparoscopic tubal ligation at our institute examined the effect of menstrual cycle on postoperative nausea and vomiting. The anaesthetic and surgical techniques were consistent for all patients. Patient data included age, weight, last day of menstrual cycle, the length of anaesthetic, the dose of inhalational agent, the dose of narcotic, emesis on emergence and whether or not droperidol was used. Of the the 235 patients in the study, the incidence of nausea and vomiting was 28%. One hundred fifty-eight had had no preoperative antiemetic and 77 had received droperidol. These two groups were analyzed separately. The incidence in the group not receiving droperidol was 33.5% and in the droperidol group, 16.9% (P less than 0.01). The incidence of nausea and vomiting was higher on the first eight menstrual days (51.6 vs 21.6, P less than 0.001), was highest on day five of the menstrual cycle and lowest on days 18, 19, and 20 where there was no nausea and vomiting. Droperidol reduced the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting but the variation in postoperative nausea and vomiting during the cycle persisted. 
Tunneled central venous catheter sepsis: risk factors in a pediatric hospital. All tunnelled central venous catheters (TCVC) placed at the Alberta Children's Hospital in Calgary, Alberta, between November 1984 and July 1987, were retrospectively reviewed to study the association of catheter infection with a number of factors including age, diagnosis, catheter use, and areas caring for children. One hundred children received 130 silastic catheters placed for a total of 17,861 days. Each catheter survived a median of 100 days. Thirty-one episodes of catheter sepsis were identified (one episode for each 576 days of catheter use). Children under 2 years of age had more than two times the risk of catheter infection (p less than 0.01). Children with malabsorption had a greater risk (45.7%) than did those with infection (25.0%) or cancer (15.5%). The use of catheters for total parenteral nutrition (TPN) or for multiple purposes markedly increased the risk of catheter infection. The risk of infection of TCVC appears to be great in the young child, in particular, in those requiring TPN or multiple intravenous infusions. Use of TCVC in these children should be avoided if possible. 
Spinal intramedullary ependymal cyst. Report of three cases. Three cases of spinal intramedullary ependymal cyst, two at the thoracolumbar junction and one in the cervical spinal cord, are reported in women in their fifth to seventh decades. Neurological signs and symptoms were extremity dysesthesias, paresthesias, and weakness. Plain cervical and lumbothoracic x-ray films were normal for the patients' age. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated a rounded cystic intramedullary mass at the thoracolumbar junction in two cases and at C3-7 in one case. The signal intensity of the cyst contents approximated that of cerebrospinal fluid on T1- and T2-weighted images. Upon administration of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA), MR imaging showed no enhancement in the cyst wall or cavity. Myelotomy and cyst drainage were performed in each case, and the neurological status of each patient improved. The lining of the cyst was biopsied in one of the three patients undergoing surgery and was composed of a single layer of cuboidal cells supported by glial tissue. Periodic acid-Schiff staining of the tissue did not reveal a basement membrane. The findings in these cases suggest that the Gd-DTPA-enhanced MR imaging appearance of intramedullary spinal ependymal cyst is consistent and allows for accurate preoperative diagnosis with or without biopsy. 
Incidence of abnormal RNA studies and dysrhythmias in patients with blunt chest trauma. The incidence and significance of myocardial contusion and subsequent cardiac complications have recently been debated. A prospective study of patients with blunt chest trauma was undertaken at a Regional Trauma Unit between January 1, 1989 and March 31, 1990. One hundred ninety-one patients were entered into the study; 72-hour Holter monitoring was performed in 183 patients, and radionuclide angiography (RNA) was performed on 163 patients. All patients had CPK levels (with CPK-mb fractions) measured, and serial electrocardiographs. There were seven patients with abnormal RNA studies; five of the seven abnormal studies were attributable to previously undiagnosed coronary artery disease or myocardial infarction. Nine patients were diagnosed as having atrial fibrillation, seven of whom were in atrial fibrillation on admission. Ventricular dysrhythmias were classified by the number of premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) per hour or the presence of ventricular tachycardia. Twelve patients developed short runs of ventricular tachycardia, and clinically insignificant PVCs were common. Only one patient with ventricular dysrhythmias (frequent PVCs) was treated and there were no hemodynamically significant dysrhythmias. The incidence of clinically significant dysrhythmias or hemodynamically significant myocardial contusion appears to be low in this patient population. Aggressive investigation and monitoring solely for cardiac complications may not be indicated. 
Irreversible drop of systemic vascular resistances in patients implanted with a Jarvik total artificial heart. Maintenance of the body's perfusion by a total artificial heart (TAH) may result in physiological alterations to the circulatory system. Little has been said about modifications to systemic vascular resistances (SVR) during TAH assistance. This paper reports on two patients implanted with a Jarvik - 70 cc TAH, who died after 1 and 3 days, both with an irreversible drop of SVR related to a complete loss of vascular tone but not related to sepsis. Activation of multiple cascades of inflammation, triggered by the extracorporeal circulation (ECC), is maintained during TAH support. Desperately sick patients might not be able to face the vaso-active situations created by the inflammatory response. 
Phosphodiesterase III inhibition or adrenoreceptor stimulation: milrinone as an alternative to dobutamine in the treatment of severe heart failure. High levels of endogenous plasma catecholamines in patients with severe congestive heart failure induce a down-regulation of the myocardial beta-adrenoreceptors and thus cause adrenoreceptor agonists, such as dobutamine, to be less effective in the treatment of these patients. Phosphodiesterase III inhibitors work independent of adrenoreceptor activity and plasma catecholamine levels; thus these agents are likely to be more effective in the treatment of severe heart failure. The present study compares both the initial and late hemodynamic effects of dobutamine and milrinone during sequentially administered 24-hour infusions. Twenty patients with severe heart failure (New York Heart Association class III, n = 4; New York Heart Association class IV, n = 16) were investigated. Dobutamine could be administered at the prescribed maximum dose of 15 micrograms/kg/min for 24 hours in only 15 of 20 patients. In three patients the dose was reduced or dobutamine infusion completely stopped because of a drug-related increase in heart rate greater than 140 beats/min. Another 2 of 20 patients showed no hemodynamic improvement over 3 hours at the maximum dose of 15 micrograms/kg/min. Dobutamine administration was also discontinued in these patients on account of the existing unfavorable hemodynamic condition, and therapy with intravenous milrinone was started. All 20 patients responded to milrinone without side effects, although comparison of the hemodynamic effects during a 24-hour infusion was possible in only 15 patients. The 15 patients studied over both observation periods experienced an increase in heart rate from 88.8 to 105.6 beats/min (+ 1 hour; p less than or equal to 0.001) when receiving dobutamine but had no increase with milrinone. Stroke volume increased during dobutamine infusion from 19.3 to 28.9 ml/m2 (+49.6%) after 1 hour and then fell continuously to 25.2 ml/m2 after 12 hours; during milrinone therapy, stroke volume increased from 18.8 to 31.2 ml/m2 (+66%; p less than or equal to 0.001) and remained at this level until the end of the infusion (30.2 ml/m2). Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) decreased (p less than or equal to 0.001) immediately during milrinone therapy from 26.5 to 16.2 mm Hg after 30 minutes and stabilized at 20.1 mm Hg after 24 hours. During dobutamine infusion PCWP showed a delayed decrease from 27.8 to 19.0 mm Hg after 6 hours and subsequently rose to 22.7 mm Hg after 24 hours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Prognostic indices of survival in patients supported with temporary devices (TAH, VAD). In an attempt to identify current indications and patient selection criteria for the use of mechanical circulatory support, we reviewed our experience in 83 patients who received a total artificial heart (TAH; n = 43), ventricular assist device (VAD) (n = 13), centrifugal pump (n = 17) or extracorporeal membrane oxigenation (ECMO) (n = 8) as a bridge to transplantation (Group I, n = 50) or for recovery from heart failure (Group II, n = 33). Comparing patients successfully transplanted (n = 20) or weaned (n = 9) who survived initial hospitalization, and those who died on mechanical support, there were no differences in preoperative renal, hepatic or pulmonary functions. Postoperative urinary output and bilirubin levels were the earliest variables affecting survival, and urinary output 24 hours after implant was discriminative in patients who survived (p less than 0.01). Age (above or below 40 years) and modality of terminal heart failure (acute versus chronic) were the most important factors affecting survival in the bridge to transplant group: 82% of young patients with acute decompensation were transplanted and 63% are long-term survivors while all patients over 40 years with chronic heart failure died on mechanical support (MS). In postcardiotomy patients, duration of cardiopulmonary by-pass (CPB) was significantly different comparing survivors with those who died in either bridge or recovery groups and all patients who had a CPB greater than 4 hours died on MS or after transplantation or weaning. In conclusion, preoperative indices indicating reversibility of multiple organ dysfunction remain to be identified. 
Two closely linked Drosophila POU domain genes are expressed in neuroblasts and sensory elements. We have characterized two Drosophila POU genes designated dPOU-19 and dPOU-28. These genes are transcribed as 3.1- and 2.2-kilobase mRNAs, respectively, which accumulate maximally during the first 12 hr of embryogenesis. The mRNAs encode 601- and 475-amino acid deduced proteins; their POU domains are most related to those of the human OCT1 and OCT2. Both genes give similar nervous system expression patterns and map to an indistinguishable site at 33F on the cytological map. Transcription of the genes is first observed in the cellular blastoderm. In the course of embryonic development, expression is observed in the neuroectoderm, with subsets of neuroblasts in the procephalic and germband central nervous system as well as a subset of peripheral nervous system elements. The expression patterns of the two POU genes suggest a possible functional role for these putative transcription factors in neurogenesis and neurospecification. 
5-Hydroxtryptamine1D receptor agonism predicts antimigraine efficacy. The interactions of four abortive anti-migraine agents and four prophylactic anti-migraine agents with 5-HT1D receptors in bovine brain were analyzed using radioligand binding techniques and adenylate cyclase assays. In bovine caudate, the affinities of abortive anti-migraine agents (i.e. 5-hydroxytryptamine, ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, sumatriptan) for 5-HT1D receptors range from 4.0-34 nM while the affinities of prophylactic anti-migraine agents (i.e. methysergide, amitriptyline, (-)propranolol, verapamil) range from 46-11,000 nM. In adenylate cyclase studies in bovine substantia nigra, all four abortive anti-migraine agents dose-dependently inhibit forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity, a biochemical effect mediated by 5-HT1D receptors. No agonist effect on cyclase activity is observed with the four prophylactic anti-migraine agents. These data support the hypothesis that abortive anti-migraine agents are 5-HT1D receptor agonists and that this effect may underlie their anti-migraine efficacy. 
Serum bioactive and immunoreactive luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels in women with cycle abnormalities, with or without polycystic ovarian disease. Serum steroid, gonadotropin, and alpha-subunit levels were assessed in 35 women with cycle abnormalities [11 with and 24 without polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD) according to strict clinical and biochemical criteria] and 8 regularly cycling women in the early (cycle day 3 or 4) and mid (cycle day 7 or 8) follicular phase. LH and FSH levels were estimated using two immunological techniques [RIA and immunoradiometric assay (IRMA)] and in vitro bioassays (BIO), using mouse Leydig cells and rat granulosa cells, respectively. In PCOD patients mean alpha-subunit, free androgen index [FAI; testosterone x 100/sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG)], androstenedione, estrone, and estradiol (E2) were significantly elevated compared to levels in the early follicular phase of control cycles and non-PCOD patients. In addition, in PCOD patients mean IRMA-LH and RIA-LH levels were distinctly increased (2.8- to 3.6 fold, respectively; both comparisons, P less than 0.001) compared to control values, but in the same order of magnitude (1.3- to 1.4-fold increments) as that in non-PCOD patients. However, the median BIO-LH level in PCOD patients was 5.9-fold higher than that in non-PCOD patients and 4.0-fold higher than the BIO-LH in the early follicular phase of control women. Consequently, the median BIO/IRMA-LH ratio was 4.8-fold higher in PCOD patients compared to non-PCOD patients. In women with cycle abnormalities, individual BIO/IRMA-LH ratios correlated with BIO-LH (rs = 0.48), FAI (rs = 0.39), free estrogens (E2/SHBG ratios; rs = 0 0.47), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (rs = 0.60) concentrations. Mean IRMA-, RIA-, and BIO-FSH levels and BIO/IRMA-FSH ratios were not significantly different when various groups were compared. Although RIA- and IRMA-LH levels showed good correlation (rs = 0.88), RIA-LH levels were consistently higher, resulting in distinctly higher RIA-LH/FSH ratios (mean, 4.5) compared to IRMA-LH/FSH ratios (median, 1.8) in PCOD patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Splenic vein aneurysm: MR appearance--a case report. A presumed pancreatic head mass by non-contrast CT examination, was proven to be a splenic vein aneurysm by enhanced CT, MRI, sonography and arteriography. Dangerous percutaneous aspiration was avoided. 
Study of experimental pain measures and nociceptive reflex in chronic pain patients and normal subjects. This study evaluates (i) the effect of heterotopic chronic pain on various experimental pain measures, (ii) the relationship between experimental pain measures and chronic pain symptomatology assessment, and (iii) the influence of the various pain aetiologies on experimental pain measures. Fifty-three chronic pain patients were compared to 17 pain-free subjects with the following psychophysical and physiological indices: pain threshold (PTh), pain tolerance (PTol), verbal estimation of intensity and unpleasantness (intensity scale, IS; unpleasantness scale, US), threshold for intensity and unpleasantness (ITh and UTh), lower limb RIII nociceptive reflex (RIIITh and RIII frequency of occurrence). Chronic pain syndromes included neuropathic pain (n = 12), iodopathic pain (n = 12), myofascial syndromes (n = 9), headache (n = 9), and miscellaneous pain (n = 11). Chronic pain symptomatology was assessed with a visual analogue scale (VAS), a French MPQ adaptation (QDSA), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Spielberger State Trait Inventory (STAI) and Eysenck Personality Inventory (EPI). No significant difference was observed between chronic pain patients and pain-free control groups and between patient subgroups for PTh, PTol and RIIITh. No significant correlation was found between experimental pain measures and clinical pain, anxiety or depression scores. However, the chronic pain patients had a higher threshold for unpleasantness and judged the suprathreshold stimuli significantly less intense and less unpleasant than the control group. These results are discussed in relation to diffuse noxious inhibitory controls and the adaptation level theory of chronic pain experience. 
Not all that moves is tardive dyskinesia. OBJECTIVE: Because tardive dyskinesia and spontaneous dyskinesia appear the same, it is difficult to determine whether an individual patient's abnormal movements are induced by medication or have developed spontaneously. Therefore, estimates of the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia that are based on observations not adjusted for spontaneous dyskinesia are inflated. In addition, age is thought to be an important risk factor in the development of both tardive and spontaneous dyskinesias. The authors estimate the prevalence of both disorders for specific age groups. METHOD: The authors reviewed nine reports on dyskinesia prevalence that included history of neuroleptic treatment and related prevalence to age. A rating of 2 or more on the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale or an equivalent score on another scale was considered an indication of dyskinesia. If the subject had taken neuroleptics for more than 3 months, the movement disorder was classified as neuroleptic-associated dyskinesia; other dyskinesias were considered spontaneous. The prevalence of tardive dyskinesia was defined as the rate of neuroleptic-associated dyskinesia minus the rate of spontaneous dyskinesia. RESULTS: The true rate of tardive dyskinesia was below 20% for all age groups except 70-79 years. The correlation between the rate of neuroleptic-associated dyskinesia and the rate of spontaneous dyskinesia was low. CONCLUSIONS: After age 40 the prevalence of spontaneous dyskinesia is sufficiently high to conclude that many patients with diagnoses of tardive dyskinesia have abnormal movements attributable to causes other than neuroleptics. 
Primary bile acid diarrhoea without an ileal carrier defect: quantification of active bile acid transport across the ileal brush border membrane. Unexplained bile acid malabsorption associated with diarrhoea that responds to cholestyramine was first described in 1973 but convincing evidence of the proposed mechanism--a defective active ileal bile acid transport--has never been substantiated. Active bile acid transport was quantified in vitro using brush border membrane vesicles prepared from terminal ileal biopsy specimens from 10 patients who fulfilled the criteria of idiopathic bile acid diarrhoea. They were recruited from 181 patients with bile acid malabsorption of various causes. Transport was quantified as in vitro Na+ dependent bile acid transport (INBAT), expressed as pmol taurocholate/mg brush border membrane protein/15 seconds, and in vitro Na+ dependent bile acid local transport capacity (INBALTC), expressed as pmol taurocholate/g ileal biopsy tissue/15 seconds. The lowest INBAT and INBALTC values in the 10 patients with idiopathic bile acid diarrhoea were well above the 10th centile values of a control group of 132 patients. Both INBAT (mean (range) 88 (30-136)) and INBALTC (158 (85-268)) values were significantly higher in the 10 patients than in the control group (INBAT: mean (range) 63 (1-244), INBALTC: mean (range) 98 (1-408)). Quantification of active ileal bile acid transport in these 10 patients with idiopathic bile acid malabsorption suggests that a genetic (carrier) defect is rare in adults. 
Significance of ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence after lumpectomy. Breast cancer treatment trials from the US National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project have established breast-conserving operations as a replacement for radical mastectomy (NSABP B-04), and have shown that in terms of survival free from distant disease there was no significant difference between lumpectomy, lumpectomy plus breast irradiation, and total mastectomy (NSABP B-06). 9-year follow-up data from B-06 are used here to address the issue of ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence (IBTR) and the development of distant disease, a question with important clinical and biological implications. A Cox regression model on fixed co-variates (ie, features such as tumour type or size present at surgery and not subsequently alterable) and on IBTR, which is time dependent and not fixed, revealed that the risk of distant disease was 3.41 times greater after adjustment for co-variates in patients in whom an IBTR developed. IBTR proved to be a powerful independent predictor of distant disease. However, it is a marker of risk for, not a cause of, distant metastasis. While mastectomy or breast irradiation following lumpectomy prevent expression of the marker they do not lower the risk of distant disease. These findings further justify the use of lumpectomy. 
Use of the argon-pumped tunable dye laser for port-wine stains in children. The authors reported previously a new technique using a low power argon-pumped tunable dye laser at a wave-length of 577nm (yellow light) to treat port-wine stains in adults. The authors report their results using this same technique as a form of treatment for 92 children with facial port-wine stains. 
Histological grading of squamous cell carcinoma of the penis: a new scoring system. A system of histological grading based on retrospective analysis of 239 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis is presented. A new scoring system with 4 histological grades was used. The results of this study confirm previous reports that penile cancer is usually a highly (50%) or moderately (29%) differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Poorly differentiated carcinomas and cancers of other types are very rare. The new grading system was found to be practical and a correlation between histological grade, clinical findings and prognosis was established. Patients with grade 1 tumours had an exceptionally favourable prognosis, with more than 80% being long-term survivors; for these patients, treatment with delayed side effects should be avoided and new forms of treatment should be explored. 
Left ventricular diastolic collapse. An echocardiographic sign of regional cardiac tamponade. BACKGROUND. Cardiac tamponade after cardiac surgical procedures is often associated with hemodynamically significant localized pericardial effusions. The localized collection of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period and the atypical presentation of cardiac tamponade limit the use of conventional clinical and echocardiographic signs usually seen with a circumferential pericardial effusion. Observation of left ventricular diastolic collapse in the echocardiogram of a patient with postoperative regional cardiac tamponade prompted us to explore the frequency of this sign in regional cardiac tamponade. METHODS AND RESULTS. We retrospectively analyzed the echocardiograms of 18 patients with postoperative cardiac tamponade for the following echocardiographic findings: right atrial collapse, right ventricular diastolic collapse, left atrial collapse, and left ventricular diastolic collapse. Three of the 18 patients had circumferential pericardial effusion, and 15 had loculated pericardial effusion; in 10, the effusion was predominantly posterior, and in the other five, it extended laterally or inferiorly. The conventional echocardiographic signs of cardiac tamponade such as right atrial collapse, right ventricular diastolic collapse, and left atrial collapse were present in only 3, 1, and 3 of these 15 patients, respectively, but all exhibited left ventricular diastolic collapse. Increasing pressure within the compartment of a loculated pericardial effusion reaching the limit of pericardial distensibility and consequent transient reversal of transmural left ventricular pressure during diastole are most likely the basis for diastolic collapse of the thick-walled ventricle in a setting of regional cardiac tamponade. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that left ventricular diastolic collapse is a frequent sign of regional cardiac tamponade and could be a useful marker of tamponade in postoperative patients. 
Effect of diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis immunization on prolonged apnea or bradycardia in siblings of sudden infant death syndrome victims. To determine whether the incidence of apnea or bradycardia increased after the first diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP) immunization in 100 subsequent siblings of victims of sudden infant death syndrome, we examined data obtained from floppy disk recordings attached to apnea-bradycardia monitors for episodes of apnea lasting 15 seconds or longer and episodes of bradycardia lasting 10 seconds or longer. The data were divided into three periods: (1) 10 days before the first DTP immunization was received (pre-DTP period), (2) 10 days immediately after the DTP (DTP period), and (3) 10 days after the DTP period (post-DTP period). Seventeen infants had at least one episode of prolonged apnea or prolonged bradycardia either before or after the 30-day study period (eight before only, eight after only, and one before and after). None of the infants had episodes of apnea lasting 15 seconds or more or bradycardia lasting 10 seconds or more during the pre-DTP or DTP period. One episode of apnea, 16 seconds long, and one episode of bradycardia lasting 11 seconds occurred in the post-DTP period. These results failed to confirm the clinical impression that DTP immunizations are associated with an increased frequency and severity of prolonged apnea. They also place in question the utility of assessing an infant's response to a DTP immunization to determine continued risk of apnea and bradycardia before home monitoring is discontinued. 
A phase II trial of high-dose cisplatin and dacarbazine. Lack of efficacy of high-dose, cisplatin-based therapy for metastatic melanoma. Cisplatin and dacarbazine are used widely in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. To evaluate high-dose cisplatin and dacarbazine, 32 patients with metastatic melanoma were treated with cisplatin 50 mg/m2 and dacarbazine 350 mg/m2 daily for three days repeated at 28-day intervals. Their median age was 43.5 years (range, 25 to 73 years), and their median Karnofsky performance status was 80% (range, 70% to 100%). Measurable and evaluable disease sites (number of patients) included lymph nodes (22), lung (17), soft tissue (16), liver (13), bone (seven), spleen (four), adrenal gland (three), skin (three), and other sites (five). Patients received a median of two cycles of therapy (range, one to eight cycles). Thirty patients were evaluable for response. No complete responses were observed. Five patients had a partial response (17%; 95% confidence interval, 3% to 30%) for 16+, 12+, 7, 6.5, and 3 months. Responding sites of disease included lymph nodes (five of 22), lung (three of 17), and soft tissue (two of 16). Hematologic toxicity (Grade greater than or equal to 3) included neutropenia (16 of 32 patients, 30 of 90 cycles), thrombocytopenia (eight of 32 patients, 12 of 90 cycles), and anemia (five patients). Nine episodes of neutropenia and fever were seen in four patients; two had bacteremia. Nonhematologic toxicity (Grade greater than or equal to 3) included hypotension (two patients), nausea and vomiting (four), neuropathy (two), ototoxicity (four), and hypomagnesemia (nine). The low objective response rate and severe toxicity of this regimen preclude its standard use in patients with metastatic melanoma. A review of cisplatin-based therapy in metastatic melanoma suggests that there is no dose-response relationship. The use of high-dose cisplatin (greater than 100 mg/m2) in the treatment of metastatic melanoma is not recommended. 
Circulatory abnormalities and compensatory mechanisms in heart failure. Knowledge of the basic alterations of central hemodynamics in congestive heart failure has failed to explain many aspects of this important syndrome. Increasing attention has recently been paid to compensatory and adaptive mechanisms occurring after the initial insult. Thus, new insights have been gained into the pathophysiology of contraction of hypertrophied myocardium and changes of adrenergic receptors in the myocardium due to chronically increased cardiac sympathetic tone. The role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in early and advanced congestive heart failure has been further elucidated, and the role of the vasodilating atrial natriuretic peptide is undergoing further definition. New results further clarify the mechanisms leading to breathlessness and muscular fatigue in congestive heart failure, with emphasis shifting from the traditional concept of the importance of increased filling pressures to changes to the peripheral circulation and exercising muscles. Although progress has been made in understanding of the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure, many aspects are still poorly understood and await clarification. 
The eyes of child abuse victims: autopsy findings. The authors studied 77 pairs of eyes removed from children who had died of suspected child abuse. Forty-seven of the cases had retinal hemorrhages. Those showing retinal hemorrhages were younger children and had fewer other stigmata of child abuse. Hemorrhages are more likely to occur in cases where the child was shaken or swung than in those with severe direct head trauma. The authors recommend that examination of the eyes be included in the autopsies of all small children who died without an obvious cause of death. Experience in both processing and reading of ocular material is necessary for reliable results. 
Crossing failure in PTCA: mind the deflated balloon profile! An attempt to reposition an Integra PTCA balloon-on-a-wire failed although the whole stenosed segment could be crossed before inflation. After careful removal the device showed a grossly altered shape. Deflated balloon profiles, quite different from the initial shape, can determine the outcome both in dissections and in multilesion cases. 
Suprascapular nerve lesions at the spinoglenoid notch: report of three cases and review of the literature. Lesions of the suprascapular nerve can occur at the supraspinatus notch (SSN) or at the spinoglenoid notch (SGN). Electromyographic (EMG), evaluation of the infraspinatus, and especially the supraspinatus muscles distinguishes SGN from SSN lesions. Three cases of SGN lesions, which are more common than SSN lesions, are presented. 
Ifosfamide continuous infusion without mesna. A phase I trial of a 14-day cycle. Twenty patients received 27 courses of ifosfamide administered as a 24-hour continuous infusion for 14 days without Mesna. The goal of the study was to deliver a dose rate and total cumulative dose of ifosfamide that would be comparable to standard bolus or short-term infusions administered with Mesna. Dose escalations proceeded from 200 to 300, 400, 450, 500, and 550 mg/m2/d. Four patients developed transient microscopic hematuria at 400, 450, and 500 mg/m2/d. There were no instances of macroscopic hematuria. At 550 mg/m2/d, three patients experienced nonurologic toxicity; confusion (1), nausea (1), and Grade 2 leukopenia (1). The recommended dose of 500 mg/m2/d delivers a total dose of 7 g/m2 per cycle, which is comparable to that delivered in clinical practice for bolus or short-term infusion. Because few patients received multiple courses over time, the cumulative effects are indeterminate in the present trial. The frequency and predictability of hematuria are not precise, and at least daily monitoring by urine Hematest is essential, adding Mesna to the infusate in patients with persistent hematuria. The protracted infusion schedule for ifosfamide permits convenient outpatient administration without Mesna and reduces the drug cost of clinical usage of this agent by up to $890 per cycle. Clinical activity was demonstrated in a single patient, but a comparative trial of standard bolus schedules with the protracted infusion schedule will be necessary to determine if the clinical effectiveness of the drug is maintained. 
VpreB gene expression in hematopoietic malignancies: a lineage- and stage-restricted marker for B-cell precursor leukemias. We show here that analysis of VpreB gene transcription can be a specific way to identify acute leukemias of cells at very early stages of B-cell development. Northern blot analysis of RNAs from 63 leukemia samples showed that VpreB RNA was present in malignancies of precursor B cells, the expression being a feature of both common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) (CD10+) and null ALL (CD10-). It was absent from malignancies of mature B cells (surface Ig positive), from acute leukemias of the T-cell lineage and granulocyte-macrophage lineages, and from normal tonsil B and T lymphocytes. Chronic myeloid leukemia blast crises of the B-precursor-cell type expressed the VpreB gene while myeloid blast crises did not. VpreB RNA was also expressed in the neoplastic cells of one of three patients with acute undifferentiated leukemias. These data show that VpreB RNA expression is a marker of the malignant forms of precursor B cells, and that it appears at least as early as cytoplasmic CD22 and CD19 in tumors of the B-cell lineage. 
Argon laser photocoagulation for neovascular maculopathy. Five-year results from randomized clinical trials. Macular Photocoagulation Study Group. With completion of follow-up of all patients enrolled in three randomized clinical trials of argon laser photocoagulation of extrafoveal choroidal neovascular membranes secondary to senile (age-related) macular degeneration, ocular histoplasmosis, or idiopathic causes, the Macular Photocoagulation Study Group has demonstrated that laser treatment of such lesions is beneficial in preventing or delaying large losses of visual acuity for at least 5 years. In eyes with senile (age-related) macular degeneration as the underlying cause, the relative risk of losing six or more lines of visual acuity from the baseline level among untreated eyes (n = 117) compared with laser-treated eyes (n = 119) was 1.5 from 6 months through 5 years after entry (P = .001). In addition, after 5 years, untreated eyes had lost a mean of 7.1 lines of visual acuity, while laser-treated eyes had lost 5.2 lines. Recurrent neovascularization had been observed in 54% of laser-treated eyes by the end of the 5-year follow-up period. Among eyes with ocular histoplasmosis, untreated eyes (n = 130) had 3.6 times the risk of laser-treated eyes (n = 132) of losing six or more lines of visual acuity (P less than .0001). Also, untreated eyes had lost a mean of 4.4 lines of visual acuity after 5 years, compared with only 0.9 lines lost by laser-treated eyes. Among laser-treated eyes, recurrent neovascularization had been observed in 26% by 5 years after enrollment. 
Classical conditioning of ventilatory responses in humans. A classical conditioning experiment, in which an auditory stimulus was paired with a hypoxic stimulus, was carried out on 34 normal subjects assigned to two groups (experimental and control). Each subject took part in one session divided into two phases, acquisition and test. In the acquisition phase, eight hypoxic and eight auditory stimuli were paired in the experimental group and unpaired in the control group. In the test phase, which was identical for the two groups, the hypoxic stimuli were suppressed and three purely auditory stimuli were presented. Significant differences between the two groups in ventilatory response to these auditory stimuli provided evidence for conditioning. In the control group, no significant changes were elicited by the auditory stimuli, whereas a conditioned increase in total cycle duration was observed in the experimental group. The conditioned response closely resembled the first component of the hypoxic response. Analysis of the pattern of the conditioned response, along with postexperimental interviews, strongly suggests that this response was not mediated by volitional factors. 
Peritoneal adhesion formation after lysis: inhibition by polyethylene glycol 4000. Peritoneal adhesions cause much long-term postoperative morbidity. This study evaluates the efficacy of polyethylene glycol (PEG) 4000 in reducing adhesion reformation after lysis. Adhesions were induced, by abrasion, in 111 Sprague-Dawley rats at a first laparotomy. At a second operation, 10 days later, these adhesions were graded and lysed, after which the animals received one of the following solutions intraperitoneally: 5 per cent PEG 4000 (n = 21), 25 per cent PEG 4000 (n = 23), 32 per cent dextran 70 (n = 22) or isotonic saline (n = 25), or were left as an untreated control group (n = 20). When the reformed adhesions were graded after a further 10 days 5 per cent PEG 4000 was found to be the only solution that inhibited adhesion reformation. The adhesions that reformed in the other four test groups were significantly worse than when they were first graded (P less than or equal to 0.033 for all groups). Therefore 5 per cent PEG 4000 may be useful in clinical practice for the reduction of adhesion formation after lysis. 
The effect of preoperative therapy on the histologic features of Wilms' tumor. An analysis of cases from the Third National Wilms' Tumor Study. Preoperative chemotherapy is being used with increasing frequency in the US for the management of selected children with Wilms' tumor, despite relatively limited knowledge as to the effects of such therapy on tumor histologic features. The authors reviewed pathologic material from all preoperatively treated unilateral Wilms' tumors registered on the third National Wilms' Tumor Study. Preoperative therapy was associated with increased ambiguity of tumor stage. The prevalence of anaplasia in the 83 evaluable specimens was similar to, although slightly increased over, that in comparable high-stage untreated Wilms' tumors (11% versus 5% to 8%), and it appeared to retain its adverse connotations. These data also suggest that alterations of tumor character and distribution by therapy provide useful prognostic information. All 17 children whose residual viable tumor was limited to intrarenal sites at the time of resection were alive and disease-free at last follow-up. Extensive (greater than 90%) tumor necrosis, low mitotic activity, and high degrees of differentiation of residual tumor were also associated with favorable outcomes. Although careful utilization of preoperative chemotherapy can be of value in children with otherwise difficult-to-manage Wilms' tumors, the potential benefits of preoperative tumor bulk reduction must be weighed against the risk of overtreatment or undertreatment as a result of increased ambiguity of tumor stage. 
Efficacy of ampicillin versus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in a mouse model of lethal enterococcal peritonitis. Lethal enterococcal peritonitis in mice was used to compare trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) therapy with ampicillin therapy. Peritoneal fluid showed a 10(3)-CFU decrease in enterococci with ampicillin compared with TMP-SMX. Mortality of the untreated mice was 100%, compared with 40% for ampicillin and 95% for TMP-SMX, despite adequately measured levels in serum and peritoneal fluid. 
Respiratory complications and hypoxic episodes during inhalation induction with isoflurane in children. We have studied the incidence of respiratory complications and hypoxic episodes during inhalation induction with isoflurane in 75 healthy unpremedicated children. Problems occurred less frequently when 4% isoflurane in oxygen was used from the outset than with traditional techniques using nitrous oxide and a gradually increasing inspired vapour concentration. The improved results observed with the former method may be secondary to more rapid uptake of vapour so that the second stage of anaesthesia characteristic of anaesthetic ethers is shortened considerably. 
Resection and reconstruction of the carotid bifurcation with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts; operative technique. Preliminary results in 25 procedures and indications. Although carotid endarterectomy is the standard procedure, the purpose of this paper is to describe a new surgical technique and indicate its role in the surgery of cervical cerebrovascular disease. The technique consists of resection of the pathologic carotid artery bifurcation followed by its total replacement with a bifurcated thin-wall polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) graft constructed by the surgeon. Prosthetic graft reconstruction of the carotid bifurcation (PGRCB) was performed in 21 patients (25 procedures) from November 1984 to May 1987. Many patients were over 70 years old. The indications for surgery were transient ischemic attacks (TIA)'s in 10 patients (high-grade stenosis), established stroke with mild deficit in 3 patients (high-grade stenosis). Eight patients (high-grade stenosis) were asymptomatic and 4 had vertebro-basilar symptoms. In 11 procedures the indications were the same as for standard carotid endarterectomy (significant stenosis and/or ulcerated plaque). In 14 cases, the procedure was justified by extensive lesions involving a long segment of the internal carotid artery (2 restenoses, 12 calcified lesions). In the perioperative period, there were no deaths and no TIA's. The 25 procedures were assessed one month postoperatively by ultrasonic imaging and venous substraction angiography. All the grafts were patent with perfect restoration of the carotid bifurcation anatomy. Systematic follow-up study was carried out in 1987. Three patients had died of non-neurologic causes and one was lost to study. The remaining 19 procedures were evaluated with an average follow-up of 19 months (range 7 to 32 months). The patients were asymptomatic and all the grafts remained patent including one stenosis (greater than 50%) at the common carotid artery anastomosis. Because recent studies have documented a much higher rate of technical defects or recurrent stenosis after carotid endarterectomy, we believe that PGRCB merits consideration, particularly in difficult endarterectomies, and in recurrent carotid stenosis. Furthermore it seems acceptable to advocate PGRCB in aneurysms of the internal carotid artery and in post-irradiation arteritis. 
Effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on canine atrial flutter due to reentry: role of prolongation of refractory period and depression of conduction to excitable gap. Antiarrhythmic drugs prolong the effective refractory period and depress conduction. To determine the exact role played by these two electrophysiologic effects in the termination of reentry, the effects of disopyramide, flecainide, propafenone and E-4031, a new class III drug, were examined in a canine model of atrial flutter (cycle length 120 +/- 4 to 131 +/- 3 ms) caused by reentry. Atrial flutter was induced in 32 anesthetized open chest dogs after placement of an intercaval crush. The excitable gap ranged from 9 +/- 2% to 11 +/- 4% of the basic flutter cycle length. The effective refractory period in the reentrant circuit during atrial flutter was estimated by subtracting the excitable gap from the basic flutter cycle length. Prolongation of flutter cycle length by the test drugs was proportional to the interatrial conduction time (r = 0.87, p less than 0.001). Atrial flutter was terminated by each test drug in all dogs except for flecainide and propafenone in one dog each. E-4031 prolonged the refractory period during atrial flutter to 129 +/- 6 ms, which did not differ significantly from the flutter cycle length immediately before termination (134 +/- 4 ms). The refractory period during atrial flutter after injection of the other drugs was shorter than the flutter cycle length before termination of atrial flutter (for example, flecainide 126 +/- 5 vs. 179 +/- 11 ms, p less than 0.01). 
Phantom-related phenomena after rectal amputation: prevalence and clinical characteristics. Phantom sensations are well known and almost inevitable sequels to limb amputation, whereas similar phenomena are only rarely described after rectum amputation (phantom rectum). Our study attempted to assess the frequency and character of phantom rectum. All surviving patients (n = 22), who had undergone abdominoperineal surgical resection of the rectum in the period 1980-1986 at our clinic, were interviewed by a standard questionnaire and underwent a physical examination. Sixty-eight per cent of the patients experienced a sensation of a missing rectum (phantom rectum), and in 27% of these or 18% of all patients this sensation was painful (phantom pain). The most common symptoms were sensations of flatus and/or faeces in a normal rectum, phantom flatus or phantom faeces. The phantom pains were described as either pricking and shooting or like haemorrhoids or hard stools that would rupture the rectum. Neither age, sex, preoperative pain, the Duke classification of the tumour nor the healing of the perineal wound seemed related to the likelihood of phantom rectum. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying phantom-related phenomena following amputation have not yet been elucidated. This study describes a relatively unknown phantom-related clinical entity after amputation and may thus contribute to the understanding of this phenomenon. 
Induction of apoptosis during normal and neoplastic B-cell development in the bursa of Fabricius. The lymphoid cells of embryonic bursal follicles are engaged in rapid growth and preimmune diversification of immunoglobulin genes. Disruption of follicular architecture by mechanical dispersion of these cells in short-term tissue culture was accompanied by continued cell division and extensive cell death by apoptosis. Apoptosis was suppressed in parallel cultures of intact follicles. gamma Radiation also triggered extensive apoptosis in embryonic bursal follicles within a few hours. Preneoplastic bursal stem cell populations induced by a v-myc oncogene were hypersensitive to induction of apoptosis by follicular dispersion and radiation. In contrast, tumor progression in v-myc- and v-rel-initiated bursal neoplasms was accompanied by development of resistance to induction of apoptosis. A programmed cell death pathway can be activated during normal B-cell development in the bursa, and alterations in the expression of this pathway accompany neoplastic change in this system. 
Operations for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Forty-six patients with symptomatic tachycardia underwent operations to divide 55 atrioventricular accessory pathways. Mean age was 29 years (range 11 to 63). Ten patients (22%) had associated cardiac disease, including two with a congenital diverticulum of the coronary sinus and six (13%) who had concomitant surgical procedures. A bipolar hand-held electrode was used in 22 operations, and simultaneous multisite mapping in the last 24 operations. Ten patients (22%) had multiple accessory pathways. A modified endocardial approach was used. The overall patient success rate was 93% with 91% to 93% of accessory pathways successfully divided. The perioperative morbidity was 17%. There were two reoperations. There were no early or late deaths. Patients have been followed up for a mean of 16 months. There were five recurrences of preexcitation (two early, three late). Two of these patients (both with a congenital diverticulum of the coronary sinus) had reoperation. One patient had late recurrence of atrial fibrillation. Operation for the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome has a high probability of success with a low operative risk. 
Chronic perineal pain related to sacral meningeal cysts. Chronic perineal pain is an often encountered problem that is difficult to evaluate. Based on a series of 17 patients in whom urological, gynecological, and anorectal pathology was excluded, the authors compared magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with computed tomographic (CT) scan with myelography in the investigation of chronic perineal pain. After a clinical neurological examination, patients underwent radiodiagnostic imaging of both techniques. Thirteen patients (76%) had one or more sacral meningeal cysts (MC) on MRI scan, whereas CT scan with myelography of the lumbar and sacral region revealed 7 patients (41%) with sacral MC. Sacral MC may be the etiology of chronic perineal pain in many instances, and MRI scan appears to be superior to CT scan with myelography in demonstrating sacral MC. Ten patients with sacral MC were operated on with moderate to excellent results 6 months after operation. Early postoperative results are encouraging, but further follow-up and larger series are required. 
Epidural sufentanil for postoperative analgesia: dose-response in patients recovering from major gynecologic surgery. To determine the lowest effective dose of epidural sufentanil given for analgesia, 41 patients undergoing elective abdominal gynecologic surgery during continuous epidural anesthesia (lidocaine 2%) were randomly assigned to one of four postoperative treatment groups. Patients received an epidural bolus of either 25 (group A), 40 (group B), 55 (group C), or 70 micrograms (group D) sufentanil in 10 mL of saline. They were evaluated for the next 8 h using a 10-cm visual analogue scale. Except for two individuals in group A, all patients achieved a visual analogue scale score of 1 cm or less during the study interval. The onset of analgesia was most rapid in the two higher dose groups (A vs C and D; P less than 0.05). Pairwise comparison between groups showed a significant difference in the time needed to achieve maximum pain relief between the lowest and highest treatment groups (A vs D; P less than 0.05). Duration of analgesia was also significantly longer in groups C and D than in group A (208.0 +/- 21.1 and 224.0 +/- 14.7 vs 140.0 +/- 10.7 min; P less than 0.05). There were no differences among groups with regard to mean respiratory rate, level of sedation, 24-h narcotic requirements, or incidence of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus (P = NS). A single patient in group D suffered profound respiratory depression within seconds of administration. We conclude that, in patients recovering from lower abdominal surgery, a single 40-55-micrograms epidural bolus of sufentanil provides 3-3.5 h of effective analgesia, and that larger doses are not warranted. 
Venous thromboembolism after brain tumor surgery: a retrospective review. We retrospectively reviewed the incidence rate of clinical postoperative deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in 1703 patients undergoing initial craniotomy for meningioma, glioma, or cerebral metastasis. The incidence rate of clinical thromboembolic complications was 1.59% for all tumor groups within the first 4 weeks of surgery. Patients undergoing surgery for meningiomas had a statistically significant increased risk of thromboembolism despite fewer overall perioperative risk factors, when compared with the other tumor groups. The tumor-specific incidence rates of deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism for meningioma, glioma, and metastasis were 3.09%, 0.97%, and 1.03%, respectively. Whether this difference was a result of increased surgical time or an inherent property of meningiomas could not be ascertained. 
Tethered cord syndrome complicating spina bifida occulta. A case report. The insidious onset of back and/or leg pain, weakness and spasticity of the lower limb, sensory deficits and neurogenic bladder and bowel in a child with spina bifida might represent a tethered cord syndrome. A case report of a child with sudden neurologic deterioration describes this condition. The successful management in children and adults with tethered cord syndrome is improved with early recognition and careful monitoring. 
Diagnosis and cure of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias during a single electrophysiologic test BACKGROUND. We conducted this study to determine the feasibility of an abbreviated therapeutic approach to the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, in which the diagnosis is established and radiofrequency ablation carried out during a single electrophysiologic test. METHODS. One hundred six consecutive patients were referred for the management of documented, symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias (66 patients) or the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (40 patients). All agreed to undergo a diagnostic electrophysiologic test and catheter ablation with radiofrequency current. No patient had had such a test previously. RESULTS. Among the 66 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias, the mechanism was found to be atrioventricular nodal reentry in 46 (70 percent) (typical in 44 and atypical in 2), atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia involving a concealed accessory pathway in 16 (24 percent), atrial tachycardia in 2 (3 percent), and noninducible paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in 2 (3 percent). A successful long-term outcome was achieved in 57 of 62 patients (92 percent) with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in whom ablation was attempted and in 37 of 40 patients (93 percent) with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The only complications were one instance of occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery, leading to acute myocardial infarction, and one instance of complete atrioventricular block. The mean (+/- SD) duration of the electrophysiologic procedures was 114 +/- 55 minutes. CONCLUSIONS. The diagnosis and cure of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia or the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome during a single electrophysiologic test are feasible and practical and have a favorable risk-benefit ratio. This abbreviated therapeutic approach may eliminate the need for serial electropharmacologic testing, long-term drug therapy, antitachycardia pacemakers, and surgical ablation. 
Initial 5-fluorouracil trabeculectomy in uncomplicated glaucoma. The effectiveness of trabeculectomy with adjunctive low-dose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) as the initial surgical procedure in uncomplicated glaucoma was evaluated retrospectively in a consecutive series of 52 patients (mean follow-up, 18.6 +/- 11.7 mos) and 74 control subjects. The cumulative 2-year success (intraocular pressure [IOP] less than 21 mmHg) was 100% in the 5-FU group and 78.9% in the control group (P = 0.01, Wilcoxon test). The 5-FU group had a mean postoperative IOP of 12.5 +/- 4.6 mmHg versus 17.4 +/- 5.7 mmHg in the control group at 2-year follow-up (P = 0.015, t test). Antiglaucoma medications were required in 5.8% of patients in the 5-FU group and in 41.9% of controls within 2 years (P less than 0.0001, Fisher's exact test). These results suggest that low-dose 5-FU at the time of initial trabeculectomy leads to a higher success rate, lower IOP, and less need for antiglaucoma medications postoperatively. 
Importance of the immune response to the Ro/La particle in the development of congenital heart block and neonatal lupus erythematosus. Previous studies have suggested a role for anti-Ro antibodies in the pathogenesis of neonatal lupus erythematosus (NLE). We reexamined the role of the immune response to the Ro/La particle in the development of NLE using newer and more definitive assay techniques. All 15 infants with congenital heart block and NLE had both anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies. Of 8 patients with cutaneous NLE alone, 2 had anti-Ro antibodies alone while the remaining 6 had both anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies. One woman gave birth to 2 children; one had both Ro and La antibodies and developed congenital heart block, the other had only anti-Ro and anti-U1RNP antibodies and was clinically normal. Our study demonstrates that the presence of anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies define the immune response that is associated with the development of congenital heart block of NLE. 
Effects of nonionic versus ionic contrast media on complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. To evaluate the effect of contrast agents on percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) complications, 913 patients undergoing 1,058 separate PTCA procedures were prospectively randomized to receive either nonionic iopamidol (Isovue-370) [n = 507 PTCA procedures] or ionic contrast media, meglumine sodium diatrizoate (Renografin-76) [n = 551 PTCA procedures]. Angioplasty operators, technicians, nurses and patients were blinded to the agent used. All patients were pretreated with 0.6 mg of atropine sulfate intravenously before any contrast injections. Hypotension (mean arterial pressure less than 65 mm Hg associated with contrast injections) occurred during 8.5% of PTCA procedures in which the patients were receiving iopamidol and during 9.5% of the procedures in which the patients were given diatrizoate (difference not significant). Bradycardia (heart rate of less than 40 beats/min associated with contrast injections) developed during 5.7% of procedures when patients were given iopamidol and during 5.1% of procedures when patients were given diatrizoate (difference not significant). The need for additional atropine or temporary pacing during the procedure was similar for patients given iopamidol and diatrizoate. The overall incidence of ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, or both, during the procedure occurred less frequently when iopamidol was used compared with diatrizoate (1 vs 2.5%, p = 0.045). These serious ventricular arrhythmias were attributable to contrast injections in 0.6% of the PTCA procedures when iopamidol was given and in 2.0% of the cases in which diatrizoate was the contrast agent (p = 0.09). Only 1 patient had an allergic reaction to the contrast agent, and this was in a patient who received iopamidol. 
Efficacy and safety of intravenous and oral propafenone in pediatric cardiac dysrhythmias. Propafenone was administered to 58 patients with a mean age of 3.2 years (range 0.1 to 16). Mean intravenous dose was 1.2 mg/kg body weight (range 0.3 to 1.5 mg). The final mean oral maintenance dose was 308 mg/m2 body surface area (range 200 to 600 mg/m2, 16.8 mg/kg body weight). After intravenous application, propafenone was effective in 21 of 36 patients; atrial flutter was converted in 1 of 5 patients, and reentry supraventricular tachycardia was controlled in 15 of 25 patients. Propafenone was partially or completely effective in 3 of 4 patients with chaotic atrial tachycardia. Junctional ectopic tachycardia was suppressed in 2 infants. Thirty-seven patients had oral treatment with a mean follow-up of 2.2 years. Propafenone was effective in 33 of 37 patients (89%); atrial flutter was controlled in 2 patients, ventricular ectopy was suppressed in 1 of 2 patients. In reentry supraventricular tachycardia, propafenone was effective in 25 of 28 patients. Chaotic atrial tachycardia (n = 3) and junctional ectopic tachycardia (n = 2) were controlled after successful intravenous therapy. Systemic side effects were rare. Two patients developed a proarrhythmic effect, and 1 patient with ventricular ectopy after repair of tetralogy of Fallot died suddenly during propafenone maintenance therapy. 
Serum ferritin: a tumor marker for renal cell carcinoma. Serum ferritin levels in 32 patients with renal cell carcinoma were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively. Serum ferritin concentration was significantly higher in renal cell carcinoma patients compared to controls (259.10 versus 61.30 ng./ml., p less than 0.001). Furthermore, there was a steady and statistically significant increase in serum ferritin levels with advancing disease stage, as well as a significant decrease in serum ferritin levels after nephrectomy for stages 1 and 2 disease. The intracellular content of ferritin as estimated by polyclonal antibody was dramatically increased in renal cancer tissue compared to normal parenchyma. Although serum ferritin regulation is complex and only partly understood, the present study suggests that serum ferritin may be a useful tumor marker for renal cell carcinoma. 
Post-traumatic syringomyelia following uncomplicated spinal fracture. Two cases of post-traumatic syringomyelia presenting 10 and 41 years after spinal injuries that had caused lumbar vertebral fractures but no lasting neurological deficits are reported. In both patients the caudal end of the syrinx cavities, as shown by MRI, corresponded to the level of the previous vertebral fractures. Patients presenting with post-traumatic syringomyelia after uncomplicated spinal fracture are very rare, and the significance of the past history of spinal trauma may be overlooked. 
Clonorchis-associated cholangiocarcinoma: a report of two cases with unusual manifestations. Two cases of Clonorchis-associated cholangiocarcinoma are described along with their cholangiographic features to illustrate the spectrum of pathology ascribed to the injurious effects of the flukes on the bile duct epithelium. This includes adenomatous hyperplasia, extensive fibrosis, and carcinoma. The first case was also complicated by hepatic abscesses, left hepatic lobar atrophy, gastrobiliary and biliarocutaneous fistulae. The second case features an unusually dilated pancreatic duct containing pancreaticoliths that was found later to consist of hyperplastic bile duct epithelium, presumably carried by worm migration in the biliary tree. Liver sections from both patients showed typical features of hepatic clonorchiasis with the cancer. A knowledge of the wide spectrum of clinical presentation of clonorchiasis, particularly cholangiocarcinoma, might aid Western physicians in averting this serious sequela through prompt eradication of the helminthic infection and early recognition and treatment of its complications. 
Comparison of human pain sensation and flexion withdrawal evoked by noxious radiant heat. The purpose of this study was to determine the reliability of flexion withdrawal magnitude as an indicator of pain sensation. In 10 healthy human volunteers, we compared the magnitude and latency of integrated biceps EMG with the subjects' rating of pain, using a visual analog scale, elicited by noxious radiant heat stimuli applied to the dorsal forearm. The magnitude and inverse latency of withdrawal, although variable, increased exponentially as a functions of stimulus temperature. The stimulus response functions for mean withdrawal magnitude and mean pain intensity were similar for lower stimulus temperatures, but at higher temperatures the withdrawal continued to increase exponentially whereas pain intensity reached a plateau. The pain intensity and withdrawal magnitude for each stimulus were poorly correlated. Under the conditions of this experiment, mean pain intensity and mean withdrawal magnitude were both well correlated with stimulus temperature, but the magnitude of withdrawal did not reliably reflect the intensity of pain sensation. 
Neuronal activity up-regulates astroglial gene expression. Neuronal gene expression is known to be modulated by functional activity. This modulation is thought to play a key role in determining the differentiation of developing neurons and regulating the operation of mature neurons. Here we describe a regulation of astroglial gene expression by neuronal activity. We report that intense neuronal activity (electrically induced seizures) in rat hippocampus leads to rapid and dramatic increases in mRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astroglia-specific intermediate filament protein. GFAP mRNA levels increased at sites of stimulation as well as in areas that were synaptically activated by the resultant seizures. When seizures were induced repetitively for many days, levels of GFAP mRNA remained chronically elevated. However, GFAP mRNA returned to control levels within a few days after the cessation of stimulation. The coupling between astroglial gene expression and neuronal activity may be a mechanism through which neuronal activity modulates the function of supporting cells that are responsible for regulating the extracellular microenvironment of the brain. 
Hazards of mattresses, beds and bedding in deaths of infants. Of 52 infants who had died suddenly and were referred to autopsy, nine had lain on adult water beds for the first time; five had died as a result of accidents; two had died on water beds; two were in beds with widely spaced slats; and one had died as a result of strangulation. Three deaths were due to overlying. Three other infants had been placed on sheepskin rugs for the first time and were found dead shortly thereafter. These infants ranged in age from 2 to 9 months, except for a severely mentally retarded nine-year-old with spastic paraplegia. We believe that a general warning should be issued concerning water beds and that soft bedding should not be used for infants. Infants should not be placed unattended or left to sleep on water beds; only beds recommended for infants should be used. Overlying of a young infant is most likely to occur on a water bed, or if the parent is obese or has consumed alcohol. 
Intraperitoneal thrombolytic agents in relapsing or persistent peritonitis of patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Urokinase or streptokinase was instilled intraperitoneally as an adjunct to the antibiotic therapy in 16 episodes of relapsing or persistent peritonitis in CAPD patients. In eight patients the combination of antibiotics and intraperitoneal thrombolytic agents resulted in clearing of the infection with no recurrences. The treatment failed in eight other patients, who had their peritoneal catheters removed. Six of the last eight patients had either abdominal wall abscesses or persistence of the bacteria on the wall of the peritoneal catheter. Elevated post-intraperitoneal instillation peritoneal fluid neutrophil counts and positive post-instillation peritoneal fluid cultures predicted failure of the intraperitoneal instillation of thrombolytic agents in most instances. Intraperitoneal instillation of urokinase or streptokinase may help cure approximately 50% of the episodes of relapsing for persistent peritonitis. Post-instillation peritoneal fluid cell counts and cultures should be monitored. Radiologic investigation for abdominal wall or intraabdominal abscesses is indicated if intraperitoneal instillation of urokinase or streptokinase fails to eradicate peritonitis. 
Hyperbaric treatment of cerebral air embolism sustained during an open-heart surgical procedure A case of cerebral air embolism sustained during replacement of the mitral valve resulted in postoperative coma and seizures. Hyperbaric treatment, begun 30 hours after the occurrence of the air embolism, resulted in good immediate and long-term recovery. Mild deficits of the left hemisphere were present at follow-up 53 days after the embolus was sustained, and lesser, minimal residua were present at 14-month follow-up. Hyperbaric treatment is the definitive therapy for cerebral air embolism. Although it is most effective when administered early, the outcome may be excellent even with late treatment. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma in Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii): evidence for association with hepatitis B-like virus infection. During studies of seasonal obesity, a high frequency of hepatic neoplasms was observed in Richardson's ground squirrels. Of 12 Richardson's ground squirrels examined thoroughly, 7 had mild or moderate degrees of chronic portal hepatitis and 6 (50%) had hepatocellular carcinoma. Serological tests for hepadnavirus surface antigen, anti-core antibody and virion DNA that recognize the ground squirrel hepatitis virus of California ground squirrels (Spermophilus beecheyi) were uniformly negative. Southern blot analyses of EcoRI digests of liver cell DNA demonstrated 3.2 kb fragments that hybridized with a ground squirrel hepatitis virus-specific probe in nontumorous liver tissue from 6 of 10 ground squirrels and in hepatocellular carcinoma specimens from 2 of 5 squirrels indicating infection with a hepadnavirus related to ground squirrel hepatitis virus. Failure, however, to detect serum antibody to ground squirrel hepatitis core antigen suggested probable antigenic differences between the ground squirrel hepatitis virus of California ground squirrels and the putative Richardson's ground squirrel agent. Further studies are required to fully characterize the hepadnavirus of Richardson's ground squirrels and to determine its relationship to hepatocarcinogenesis in this species. 
Adenovirus E1a prevents the retinoblastoma gene product from complexing with a cellular transcription factor. The transforming proteins of several DNA tumour viruses, including adenovirus E1a and simian virus 40 large T antigen, complex with the retinoblastoma (Rb) tumour-suppressor gene product. This requires regions in these viral proteins necessary for transformation and is thought to inactivate the growth-suppressing properties of the Rb protein by disrupting its interaction with cellular targets. Indeed, regions of Rb required to form a complex with E1a and large T antigen are often mutated in transformed cells. The level at which the Rb protein regulates proliferation is unknown, although one possibility is transcription. We have previously characterized a sequence-specific transcription factor, DRTF1, the activity of which is downregulated as embryonal carcinoma stem cells differentiate. DRTF1 is found in several discrete protein complexes (a, b and c) which are of different sizes but have the same DNA specificity. We now show that one of these also contains the Rb protein and, further, that the adenovirus E1a protein causes the dissociation of the Rb protein from this complex. This requires conserved regions 1 and 2 of E1a that are known to be required for efficient transformation. These results demonstrate that the Rb protein forms a complex with a DNA-bound transcription factor, and suggests that the Rb protein might act by regulating transcription. 
Enhanced immunoglobulin levels correlate with infectious complications after surgery in esophageal cancer. Severe septic complications account for the high mortality of patients with esophageal cancer. We examined the levels of immunoglobulins and complements together with infection-related complications in a large number of patients. Enhancements of IgG, IgA, C3, C4, and CH50 were evident in patients with esophageal cancer and were more predominant compared to findings in cases of gastric cancer. Average levels of IgG and IgA immediately before surgery were significantly higher in esophageal cancer patients with postoperative septic complications than in those without such problems. Preoperative radiation therapy and total parenteral nutrition did not significantly alter the levels of immunoglobulins and complements. It would thus appear that the enhancement of IgG and IgA is associated with the occurrence of infectious complications following surgery for patients with esophageal cancer. 
Evaluating painful osteopenia in the elderly. Osteopenia is a frequent finding on radiographs of elderly patients. When the exam is performed for skeletal pain, this finding may be significant. The differential diagnosis for osteopenia is extensive, but individualizing the patient work-up begins with a careful clinical history and laboratory studies. Appropriate radiographic exams can then be requested. A plain radiograph is always the starting point, followed by--as indicated--a nuclear bone scan, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. 
Cerebrovascular malformation causing sudden death. Analysis of three cases and review of the literature. Three unusual cases of sudden death resulting from cerebrovascular malformation (CVM) are presented. CVMs are highly variable in location and morphology, and may be difficult to detect. Two of the patients discussed here had CVMs that involved the circle of Willis directly, and produced rapidly fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage at the base of the brain; both of these subjects were in their late 30s. One had a history of epilepsy; the other had been completely asymptomatic prior to the catastrophic event. The third was an asymptomatic 6 year old with a cerebellar CVM, who survived long enough for inconclusive neurosurgical intervention. In all three cases, the diagnosis was not made prior to autopsy; in one case, the circumstances of death were initially misleading. The relevant literature is reviewed and discussed, with emphasis on differential diagnosis, anatomic examination, and background investigation. 
Exercise testing in patients with microvascular angina. The widespread use of exercise testing for the detection of myocardial ischemia in patients suspected of having coronary artery disease led to the detection of ischemic changes in many subjects who subsequently were found to have angiographically normal epicardial vessels--the false positive response. Such a result is usually interpreted as indicating that the subject's chest pain is of noncardiac origin. For the past several years, we have studied the mechanism of pain resembling angina that occurs in patients with normal epicardial coronary arteries demonstrated by angiography; we believe these studies have shed some light on this problem. Patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries who present because of a history of angina-like pain and/or ischemic changes detected during exercise electrocardiogram testing were evaluated by measuring great cardiac vein flow (under baseline conditions and after cardiac pacing, with and without intravenous administration of ergonovine) and by radionuclide angiography before and during exercise. We found that a substantial number of these subjects showed inadequate coronary vasodilator reserve and had exercise-induced left ventricular dysfunction suggestive of myocardial ischemia. We concluded from our results that there is a distinct clinical syndrome of myocardial ischemia caused by abnormal resistance responses of the prearteriolar coronary microvasculature. We now refer to this syndrome as microvascular angina. In a series of 115 patients with documented microvascular angina, we also found that only 10% had ischemic ST changes with exercise testing (2% of the men and 17% of the women developed ischemic ST segment changes). 
Breast cancer with bone-only metastases. Visceral metastases-free rate in relation to anatomic distribution of bone metastases. The medical records of 82 patients with breast cancer with bone-only metastases were reviewed. According to the distribution of the metastases by bone scan at the time they were first documented, the patients were divided into three groups: Group A (patients who had bone metastases exclusively cranial to the lumbosacral junction), Group B (patients who had bone metastases exclusively caudal to the junction), and Group C (patients who had bone metastases both cranial and caudal to the junction). Group A had a significantly higher visceral metastases-free rate than Groups B or C. Serial bone scans and radiographs of Group A patients revealed that bone lesions cranial to the junction rarely developed into visceral metastases and that bone lesions extending caudal to the junction frequently developed into visceral metastases. These results indicate that the presence of bone metastases caudal to the lumbosacral junction is predictive of visceral metastases. 
Effects of volatile anesthetics on response to norepinephrine and acetylcholine in guinea pig atria. The in vitro chronotropic and inotropic effects of norepinephrine and acetylcholine in isolated right and left guinea pig atria were examined in the absence and presence of halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane (0.6 and 1.2 MAC). All three anesthetics elicited dose-dependent reductions in contractile force and spontaneous pacemaker activity. The maximal developed tension observed in the presence of norepinephrine was not altered by the anesthetics and corresponding ED50 values increased only in the presence of 1.2 MAC halothane and 1.2 MAC isoflurane. The anesthetics did not affect (a) the maximal positive chronotropic effect of norepinephrine, (b) the ED50 values for its positive chronotropic effect, and (c) acetylcholine-induced negative inotropic and chronotropic actions and did not induce arrhythmic activity even in the presence of the maximally effective neurotransmitter concentrations. These findings indicate that in isolated guinea pig atria volatile anesthetics, in concentrations up to 1.2 MAC, do not alter the inotropic and chronotropic effects of norepinephrine or acetylcholine and do not induce arrhythmogenic action in the presence of the neurotransmitters. These data suggest that altered atrial responsiveness to adrenergic or muscarinic stimulation does not contribute to the development of anesthetic-induced cardiac arrhythmias. 
Stress-induced gastroduodenal lesions and total parenteral nutrition in critically ill patients: frequency, complications, and the value of prophylactic treatment. A prospective, randomized study. OBJECTIVE: To assess the frequency, complications, and value of prophylactic treatment of stress-induced gastroduodenal lesions. DESIGNS: Patients were prospectively randomized to treatment with total parenteral nutrition, either alone, with sucralfate, or with ranitidine. SETTING: A multidisciplinary ICU from a tertiary care referral center. PATIENTS: Ninety-seven patients submitted to prolonged mechanical ventilation, with normal hepatic and renal function, in metabolic stress, and receiving total parenteral nutrition. INTERVENTIONS: On admission, we determined the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score and the catabolic index score. We also performed an endoscopic examination on day 3, every 7 days subsequently, and whenever needed. Thirty patients received total parenteral nutrition alone. Twenty-four patients received total parenteral nutrition and sucralfate (1 g by nasogastric tube every 4 hrs). Nineteen patients received total parenteral nutrition and ranitidine (50 mg iv every 6 hrs). MAIN RESULTS: The overall occurrence rate of gastroduodenal mucosal damage was 29.6%. The overall frequency rate for stress ulcerations was 15.6% and was 6.2% for stress hemorrhage. There were no deaths secondary to stress hemorrhage. The difference in the frequency of stress-induced mucosal lesions and stress hemorrhage between the studied groups was not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Additional prophylaxis to total parenteral nutrition in the form of sucralfate and ranitidine to prevent acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding is not required in this group of ICU patients. 
Polyethylene wear from retrieved acetabular cups. Laboratory wear testing of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene from 12 Charnley acetabular cups, removed after periods of up to 17.5 years showed that the large patient-to-patient variations in clinical penetration rate cannot be explained by batch-to-batch variation in the wear resistance of the material. Nor was there any evidence of a time-dependent degradation in wear resistance of the material. 
The effects on plasma lipoproteins of a prudent weight-reducing diet, with or without exercise, in overweight men and women. BACKGROUND. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) recommends a low-saturated-fat, low-cholesterol diet, with weight loss if indicated, to correct elevated plasma cholesterol levels. Weight loss accomplished by simple caloric restriction or increased exercise typically increases the level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Little is known about the effects on plasma lipoproteins of a hypocaloric NCEP diet with or without exercise in overweight people. METHODS. We tested the hypothesis that exercise (walking or jogging) will increase HDL cholesterol levels in moderately overweight, sedentary people who adopt a hypocaloric NCEP diet. We randomly assigned 132 men and 132 women 25 to 49 years old to one of three groups: control, hypocaloric NCEP diet, or hypocaloric NCEP diet with exercise. One hundred nineteen of the men and 112 of the women returned for testing after one year. RESULTS. After one year, the subjects in both intervention groups had reached or closely approached NCEP Step 1 dietary goals and reduced their mean body fat significantly (range of reduction in mean fat weight, 4.0 to 7.8 kg). Weight loss on the NCEP diet alone did not significantly change HDL cholesterol levels in either the men or the women as compared with the subjects in the control group. Plasma levels of HDL cholesterol increased significantly more in the men who exercised and dieted (mean [+/- SE] change, +13 +/- 3 percent) than in the men who only dieted (+2 +/- 3 percent, P less than 0.01) or the men who acted as controls (-4 +/- 2 percent, P less than 0.001). HDL cholesterol levels remained about the same in the women who exercised and dieted (+1 +/- 2 percent); they were higher than in the women who only dieted (-10 +/- 3 percent, P less than 0.01), but not higher than in the controls (-3 +/- 3 percent). CONCLUSIONS. Regular exercise in overweight men and women enhances the improvement in plasma lipoprotein levels that results from the adoption of a low-saturated-fat, low-cholesterol diet. 
Subperiosteal abscess in children: scintigraphic appearance. A subperiosteal abscess is an uncommon complication of osteomyelitis in childhood. Bone scanning is very sensitive for the detection of early skeletal infection; however, a subperiosteal abscess has a different and distinctive scintigraphic appearance. The usual increased tracer uptake of osteomyelitis is overshadowed by the presence of a "cold" lesion on the delayed views, probably due to interruption of the vascular supply of the bone. Early recognition of the condition is important, as surgery is indicated to prevent extensive bone necrosis and chronic osteomyelitis. In suspected osteomyelitis, a central photopenic area is highly suggestive of subperiosteal abscess; when such an area is seen, a computed tomographic (CT) scan can be helpful in planning the surgical approach for drainage. Plain radiographs may be unremarkable even when the bone scan and CT findings are dramatic. Five such cases are presented, and a recommended diagnostic approach is discussed that views the two procedures as complementary. 
The management of IIB osteosarcoma. Experience from 1976 to 1985. From 1976 to 1985, 75 IIB osteosarcomas have been treated out of a total of 98 osteosarcomas at the authors' institution. Because of the effective chemotherapy including high-dose methotrexate administered during this time period, the surgical management changed, and only ten patients out of the 75 IIB osteosarcomas required an amputation. The overall result of 76.7% of disease-free, three-year survival was equally distributed regardless of the surgical procedure. Endoprosthesis, resection with or without grafts, and rotationplasties, as well as amputations, revealed similar results. No negative influence from the limb-sparing surgery could be observed. 
Salivary secretion rate, yeast cells, and oral candidiasis in patients with acute leukemia. Stimulated salivary secretion rate was repeatedly determined in 29 patients with acute leukemia during two periods of cytotoxic treatment in myelosuppressive doses. For comparison, the salivary secretion rate was studied in 83 healthy persons and in three other groups of hospitalized patients without malignant disorders. At the start of cytotoxic treatment the secretion rate in the patients with leukemia was lower than in healthy persons. The rate fell significantly after 1 to 3 days and later rose to the level seen in the healthy persons. Several interacting factors may have contributed to the decrease in salivary secretion rate, but the most important factor was probably the use of antiemetic drugs during the first 3 days of the study periods. No relationship was found between salivary secretion rate and the number of gram-negative rods found in the mouth. Patients with low salivary secretion rates had high numbers of yeast cells and more often oral candidiasis. 
CSF monoamine metabolites, cholinesterases and lactate in the adult hydrocephalus syndrome (normal pressure hydrocephalus) related to CSF hydrodynamic parameters. Monoamine metabolites, cholinesterases and lactic acid in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were investigated on patients with the adult hydrocephalus syndrome (idiopathic normal pressure syndrome; AHS, n = 15), Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 14), multi-infarct dementia (MID, n = 13) and controls (n = 21). Patients had clinical and CSF hydrodynamic investigations. Monoamine concentrations were determined by reversed-phase liquid chromatography, cholinesterases and lactate were determined photometrically. In the AHS patients, CSF monoamine concentrations were not significantly different compared with controls, AD or MID patients. AHS and AD patients showed a similar reduction of CSF acetylcholinesterase activity compared with controls. Positive correlations were found in concentrations of CSF homovanillic acid, CSF 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and CSF lactic acid versus CSF outflow conductance (that is, resistance against CSF outflow) in the AHS patients. A similar pattern was observed in a subgroup of MID patients characterised by dilated ventricles and disturbed CSF hydrodynamics. These data suggest that a low CSF outflow conductance may facilitate the clearance of acidic substances from the arachnoid space at the probenecid sensitive active transport site. Alternative explanations would be that a pathologically low CSF outflow conductance is accompanied by an inverse caudorostral flow of CSF or a compromised trans-ependymal diffusion. 
A prospective comparison of laser therapy and intubation in endoscopic palliation for malignant dysphagia. There is little objective long-term follow-up comparing laser therapy with intubation for palliation of malignant dysphagia. In a prospective, nonrandomized two-center trial 43 patients treated with the neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser were compared with 30 patients treated by endoscopic intubation; the two groups were comparable for mean age and tumor position, length, and histology. Dysphagia was graded from 0 to 4 (0, normal swallowing; 4, dysphagia for liquids). Pretreatment mean dysphagia grades were similar: laser-treated group, 2.9 (SD, 0.6); intubated group, 3.2 (SD, 0.55). For thoracic esophageal tumors, the percentage of patients achieving an improvement in dysphagia grade by greater than or equal to 1 grade initially and over the long term was similar (laser, 95% and 77%; intubation, 100% and 86%). For tumors crossing the cardia, intubation was significantly better (laser, 59% and 50%; intubation, 100% and 92%, respectively; P less than 0.001). In patients palliated over a long period, however, the mean dysphagia grade over the remainder of their mean dysphagia grade over the remainder of their lives (mean survival: laser, 6.1 months; intubation, 5.1 months) was better in the laser group (1.6 vs. 2.0; P less than 0.01); 33% of laser-treated and 11% of intubated patients could eat most or all solids (P less than 0.05). For long-term palliation, laser-treated patients required on average more procedures (4.6 vs. 1.4; P less than 0.05) and days in the hospital (14 vs. 9; P less than 0.05). The perforation rate was lower in the laser-treated group (2% vs. 13%; P less than 0.02); no treatment-related deaths occurred in either group. For individual patients, the best results are likely to be achieved when the two techniques are used in a complementary fashion in specialist centers. 
Acinetobacter peritonitis in patients receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Little is written on peritonitis caused by Acinetobacter species in patients receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). A retrospective review of medical records, dialysis unit charts, and microbiology culture logbooks identified 18 such patients treated at our hospital. All cases were community-acquired, and no common epidemiologic link between cases was detected. The most common manifestations were abdominal pain or tenderness (13 patients) and cloudy dialysate (six patients); only two patients had fever. Peritonitis without localized intra-abdominal abscess formation occurred in all instances. Intraperitoneal aminoglycoside therapy for 3 to 14 days (mean 10.7 days) eradicated infection in 14 cases. Two patients were successfully treated with 4 days of intraperitoneal gentamicin followed by 8 days of oral ciprofloxacin; another was cured with 10 days of IV ceftriaxone. Tenckhoff catheter removal was necessary in only one patient. Unlike pseudomonal or fungal peritonitis associated with CAPD, infection due to Acinetobacter species is generally responsive to antimicrobials alone. 
The IPR inventory: development and psychometric characteristics. The purpose of this study was to develop, validate, and norm a measure of dimensions of interpersonal relationships that are salient to nursing: social support, reciprocity, and conflict. The selection of these concepts was guided by social exchange and equity theories. In the first phase of the study, 44 respondents were interviewed to provide narrative data from which to develop items so that items would be grounded in lived experience. Content validity of items was judged by a panel of 11 experts. The revised 39-item instrument was tested in successive steps with a total of 340 students, patients, and community residents for reliability and validity, including internal consistency reliability, test-retest reliability, factor analysis, and three forms of validity assessment (theory testing, contrasted groups, and multitrait-multimethod comparison). The three subscales of social support, reciprocity, and conflict demonstrated repeated internal consistency and test-retest reliability. Strong evidence of construct validity was demonstrated for the social support and the conflict subscales; validity of the reciprocity subscale was equivocal. 
Ventilatory responses to hypoxia and hypercapnia in awake rats pretreated with capsaicin. Ventilatory responses to hypoxia and hypercapnia were measured by indirect plethysmography in unanesthetized unrestrained adult rats injected neonatally with capsaicin (50 mg/kg) or vehicle. Such capsaicin treatment ablates a subpopulation of primary afferent fibers containing substance P and various other neuropeptides. Ventilation was measured while the rats breathed air, 12% O2 in N2, 8% O2 in N2, 5% CO2 in O2, or 8% CO2 in O2. Neonatal treatment with capsaicin caused marked alterations in both the magnitude and composition of the hypoxic but not hypercapnic ventilatory response. The increase in minute ventilation evoked by hypoxia in the vehicle-treated rats resulted entirely from an increase in respiratory frequency. In the capsaicin-treated rats the hypoxic ventilatory response was significantly reduced owing to an attenuation of the frequency response. Although both groups responded to hypoxia with a shortening in inspiratory and expiratory times, rats treated with capsaicin displayed less shortening of both respiratory phases. By contrast, hypercapnia induced a brisk ventilatory response in the capsaicin-treated group that was similar in magnitude and pattern to that observed in the vehicle-treated group. Analysis of the components of the hypercapnic ventilatory responses revealed no significant differences between the two groups. We, therefore, conclude that neuropeptide-containing C-fibers are essential for the tachypnic component of the ventilatory response to hypoxia but not hypercapnia. 
Late variation in ventricular function after myocardial infarction. To assess the possible role of variables not related to early infarct artery reperfusion in predicting late changes in ventricular function after infarction, paired early (mean 6.6 +/- 3.5 days after admission) and late (12.7 +/- 7.0 months later) cross-sectional echocardiograms from 54 infarction survivors were retrospectively reviewed. Ejection fraction was calculated from digitized biapical echocardiographic views on a graphics tablet. Changes of 0.10 or more in LVEF were correlated with 23 clinical variables. By stepwise regression analysis, Q-wave infarction and low early LVEF independently predicted late improvement in function. Early high LVEF and interval infarction were the only independent predictors of late declines in function. Overall, when patients were indexed by early left ventricular systolic function, a pronounced late "regression to the mean" was noted with initially high values tending to fall and low values to rise (r = -0.44, p less than 0.001). This effect must be accounted for in any acute intervention trial in myocardial infarction. The occurrence of Q-wave infarction does not exclude late improvement in ventricular function. 
Proliferation and cytolytic function of anti-CD3 + interleukin-2 stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells following bone marrow transplantation. We evaluated the proliferation, cytolytic function, and phenotypic characteristics of anti-CD3 plus interleukin-2 (IL-2) stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 44 patients with leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) treated with multiagent chemotherapy or following bone marrow transplantation (BMT). BMT patients had decreased cell growth with only a 1.35 +/- 0.25 (autologous BMT for acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL]), 1.24 +/- 0.25 (autologous BMT for NHL), and 0.8 +/- 0.1 (allogeneic BMT for leukemia) mean fold increase by day 5 of culture compared with controls (4.0 +/- 0.4), P less than .001. Anti-CD3 + IL-2 activated cells from patients with ALL and NHL who had received autologous BMT and cells from patients with leukemia who underwent allogeneic BMT were more effective in lysing the natural killer (NK) sensitive target, K562, and the NK-resistant target, Daudi, compared with controls. In contrast, cytolysis of K562 and Daudi by cultured PBMCs from patients with ALL and NHL receiving multi-agent chemotherapy was similar to that of controls. Cultures from BMT recipients had a significant increase in CD16+ (autologous ALL 5.7 +/- 1.5%, P less than .01; autologous NHL 12.4 +/- 3.5%, P less than .001; allogeneic 14.3 +/- 2.9%, P less than .001) and CD56+ cells (autologous ALL 27.6 +/- 12.0%, P less than .01; autologous NHL 39.3 +/- 9.5%, P less than .001; allogeneic 42.7 +/- 7.4%, P less than .001) compared with controls (CD16+ 2.5 +/- 0.4%; CD56+ 6.9 +/- 0.9%). Stimulation of PBMCs with anti-CD3 + IL-2 is effective in generating cells with high cytolytic function post-BMT. 
Mesenteric infarction secondary to tumor emboli from primary aortic sarcoma. Guidelines for diagnosis and management. Primary aortic tumors are rare, difficult to diagnose, and often fatal. This case and a review of the literature identified aortic tumors as a potential source of emboli leading to acute mesenteric insufficiency. The case showed the efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging in diagnosing and determining the extent and location of an aortic tumor. 
Tumor cell invasion inhibited by TIMP-2 The 72-kd type IV collagenase is a member of the collagenase enzyme family that has been closely linked with the invasive phenotype of cancer cells. Previous studies have shown that both normal cells and highly invasive tumor cells produce the 72-kd type IV procollagenase enzyme in a complexed form consisting of the proenzyme and a novel tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases, TIMP-2. The balance between activated enzyme and available inhibitor is thought to be a critical determinant of the matrix proteolysis associated with a variety of pathologic processes, including tumor cell invasion. In the present study, we demonstrate that alteration of the metalloproteinase-metalloproteinase-inhibitor balance in favor of excess inhibitor blocks human fibrosarcoma HT-1080 tumor cell invasion of a reconstituted basement membrane. The HT-1080 cell line produces both the 72-kd and the 92-kd type IV collagenases. Alteration of the type IV collagenase-inhibitor balance was achieved by addition of free TIMP-2 or antibodies to 72-kd type IV collagenase. Native, purified TIMP-2 was inhibitory in the range of 1-25 micrograms/mL. Addition of specific antiserum against the 72-kd type IV collagenase, which did not cross-react with the 92-kd type IV collagenase, inhibited HT-1080 cell invasion to the same extent. These results suggest that metalloproteinases, in particular the 72-kd type IV collagenase, are critical for tumor cell invasion of the reconstituted basement membrane. Our findings demonstrate that addition of the endogenous inhibitor TIMP-2 is able to block invasion. Thus, we recommend initiation of in vivo studies of the therapeutic potential of TIMP-2 to block tumor cell invasion and intravasation into the circulation. 
Load dependence of the effective regurgitant orifice area in a sheep model of aortic regurgitation. Treatment of patients with aortic regurgitation with vasodilators reduces regurgitant volume, ventricular dilation and left ventricular mass. Although these effects are presumably due to afterload reduction, it is also possible that the aortic regurgitant orifice area is not constant. To test the latter hypothesis, aortic regurgitation was created in 10 open chest sheep by partial resection of the noncoronary leaflet under direct visualization. Regurgitant flow was measured with an aortic supravalvular electromagnetic probe; aortic and left ventricular pressures were measured with catheter-tipped micromanometer pressure transducers. The effective regurgitant orifice area was calculated by a modification of the continuity equation in a manner similar to the Gorlin equation. The regurgitant orifice area was measured three times: after aortic regurgitation was created, after mean arterial pressure was increased by 15 to 25 mm Hg with intravenous dopamine and after mean arterial pressure was reduced by 15 to 25 mm Hg with intravenous sodium nitroprusside. Comparison of regurgitant volumes and areas obtained after creation of aortic regurgitation and at the conclusion of the experiment in the absence of dopamine or sodium nitroprusside demonstrated no significant change over time. Dopamine administration was associated with an 86 +/- 81% increase in regurgitant volume (p less than 0.01) and a 38 +/- 44% increase in regurgitant orifice area (p less than 0.01). Sodium nitroprusside administration resulted in a 51 +/- 14% decrease in regurgitant volume (p less than 0.001) and a 28 +/- 21% reduction in regurgitant orifice area (p = 0.007). In this model of acute aortic regurgitation, the effective regurgitant orifice area was altered by increasing or decreasing the aortic transvalvular pressure gradient. 
Primary angiosarcoma of the central nervous system. Study of eight cases and review of the literature. Angiosarcoma arising in the central or peripheral nervous system has rarely been reported. Eight patients with primary angiosarcoma of the central nervous system are described here; these included five males and three females ranging in age from 2 weeks to 72 years (mean 38 years). Of the eight neoplasms, six were located in the cerebral hemispheres and one was in the meninges; the site was unknown in the other. All patients underwent surgical resection. Five of the eight patients died, four within 4 months after surgery and one after 30 months. Two of the remaining three patients were 17 and 27 years old at the time of diagnosis and were alive at follow-up review 39 and 102 months after surgery, respectively. One patient was lost to follow-up monitoring. Microscopically, all eight tumors demonstrated a well-differentiated pattern with irregular vascular channels and intraluminal papillae; in addition, four showed poorly differentiated solid areas. Immunohistochemical staining of neoplastic cells to factor VIII-related antigen and Ulex europaeus agglutinin I was performed in five tumors and was focally positive in four. No correlation could be shown between the histological features and the growth and biological behavior of the tumors. 
Verapamil in the treatment of maternal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) is seen somewhat frequently in the emergency department but less frequently during pregnancy. Although verapamil is widely used as the drug of choice for PSVT with a narrow QRS complex in a hemodynamically stable patient, the acute IV use of verapamil during pregnancy has not been well studied. Only a limited number of case reports document its safety and efficacy in the treatment of maternal or fetal PSVT. In general, the use of medication during pregnancy requires careful assessment of both the maternal and fetal risks versus benefits and documentation of patient consent. Because it crosses the placenta, one of the major concerns with the acute use of IV verapamil centers around the drug's potential effect on fetal heart rate. The case we present describes the occurrence of PSVT on two separate occasions in a woman in the third trimester of pregnancy. In both episodes, as much as 10 mg IV verapamil was given with resulting successful conversion to normal sinus rhythm. Fetal heart monitoring during drug administration failed to show significant change in fetal heart rate. 
Meningitis from canine Pasteurella multocida following mastoidectomy. A case of Pasteurella multocida meningitis, following a mastoidectomy is presented. The association of close contact with pets, many of which harbour Pasteurella multocida as part of their normal buccal flora. This case confirms the potential benefit of taking an ear swab prior to mastoid surgery and in seeking an appropriate 'pet' history. 
Dislodgement of a vein graft thrombus by angiographic injection of native coronary artery. A case of retrograde dislodgement of thrombus in a saphenous vein graft during injection of the native right coronary artery is presented. Attention to this previously undescribed complication may allow for timely treatment with emergency surgery or thrombolysis. 
Multifactorial analysis of fertility after conservative laparoscopic treatment of ectopic pregnancy in a series of 223 patients. OBJECTIVES: To lay down the criteria to clearly define whether conservative or radical laparoscopic treatment should be adopted in cases of ectopic pregnancies (EP). DESIGN: Retrospective, noncomparative. SETTING: At the University Hospital of Clermont Ferrand and the La Pergola Clinic at Vichy from July 1974 to December 1987. PATIENTS: This study was carried out in 223 patients who had been treated laparoscopically for EP and who desired future childbearing and who were not lost to follow-up. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The measures chosen to achieve the objective included age, parity, size of hematosalpinx, volume of hemoperitoneum, tubal rupture, location, intrauterine device, ipsilateral and contralateral adhesions, and patient's previous history of salpingitis, EP, solitary tube, and tubal infertility. RESULTS: The general intrauterine pregnancy rate was 67% (149 patients) and the recurrence rate 12% (27 patients). The results according to the studied factors demonstrated that age, parity, and the type of the EP have no influence on the postectopic fertility. The history of the patient, ipsilateral adhesions, or contralateral tubal status significantly reduce the future fertility prognosis and risk of recurrence. CONCLUSIONS: From a multivariable analysis, the authors propose a scoring system to choose the most suitable treatment to preserve fertility and to reduce the risk of recurrence ranging from laparoscopic conservative treatment to laparoscopic salpingectomy with contralateral sterilization. 
Epidemiology and evaluation: steps toward hypertension treatment in the 1990s. The percentage of persons in the United States over age 65--especially over 85--is increasing more rapidly than other age groups. Two thirds of people over age 65 have blood pressure higher than 140 mm Hg systolic or 90 mm Hg diastolic. Isolated systolic hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm Hg with diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg) is also highly prevalent. In a number of clinical trials, treatment of diastolic hypertension in the elderly has been shown to be beneficial, although the value of treatment of isolated systolic hypertension is not yet established. The benefit of antihypertensive therapy on the incidence of stroke and heart failure has been clearly established, but prevention of the atherosclerotic complications of high blood pressure (sudden death or myocardial infarction, for example) has not been convincingly demonstrated. Since clinical trials designed to investigate this atherosclerotic complication of hypertension have relied on stepped-care regimens (diuretics and beta blockers), the question arises whether the use of different drugs might have a better effect on prevention of myocardial infarction. The basis for this supposition includes the known adverse effects of diuretics and beta blockers on electrolytes, lipid metabolism, glucose metabolism, insulin resistance, and quality of life. Hypertension treatment in the 1990s will focus on the mechanisms by which blood pressure is lowered by various antihypertensive agents, as well as individualization of drug therapy based on coexisting diseases and conditions. Emphasis will be placed on use of monotherapy whenever possible; diuretics in low doses will probably be used more frequently for second-line therapy. In recognition of their lack of adverse lipid effects and their tolerability, first-line therapy with alpha blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and calcium antagonists will become increasingly common. The goal of antihypertensive therapy will be to extend the life expectancy of hypertensive patients to that of subjects without high blood pressure; hopefully, these new treatment approaches will bring us closer to that goal. 
Successful repair of a submitral left ventricular infected pseudoaneurysm. Aneurysms of the left ventricle may be congenital or may occur after a myocardial infarction, trauma, or endocarditis. Infective endocarditis can cause destructive injury to the heart in various ways. This report describes the formation of an aneurysm of the left ventricle from trauma of a bacterial vegetation of the mitral valve. Early recognition by echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging led to successful repair and prevented a catastrophic result. 
Lateral parabrachial nucleus and angiotensin II-induced hypertension. The objective of this study was to determine if ablation of the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) would prevent angiotensin II-induced hypertension in rats. Thirteen male Sprague-Dawley rats were studied. Bilateral electrolytic lesions in the LPBN were produced in six rats; the remaining seven rats were subjected to sham lesion surgery only. All rats were instrumented with vascular catheters and housed in metabolism cages. Daily measurements during the 16-day protocol included arterial pressure, heart rate, water intake, urine output, and urinary sodium excretion. Periodically throughout the protocol depressor responses to ganglion blockade and to blockade of V1-type vasopressin receptors also were measured. The protocol was divided into three control-period days, 10 days of continuous (24 hr/day) angiotensin II infusion (10 ng/min i.v.), and three recovery-period days. There were no significant differences between the two groups of rats for any variable during the control period. During angiotensin II infusion, sham-lesion rats exhibited a progressive increase in arterial pressure and the depressor response to ganglion blockade and a decrease in urinary sodium excretion. No other variable was significantly changed. In rats with LPBN lesions, arterial pressure was significantly increased only on days 1 and 3 of angiotensin II infusion. No other variable was affected. It was concluded that ablation of the LPBN in rats prevented sustained hypertension during intravenous infusion of angiotensin II by interfering with neurogenic pressor mechanisms normally activated by the peptide. 
Bladder and sphincter behavior in patients with spinal cord lesions. To ascertain the relationship between the clinical neurological level, and bladder and sphincter behavior, the video-urodynamic studies of 489 patients with spinal cord lesions due to a variety of causes were retrospectively analyzed. Patients were classified based on the clinical neurological level, etiology of the lesion and presence or absence of signs of sacral cord involvement. Urodynamic findings were classified as either detrusor hyperreflexia, detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia, detrusor areflexia or normal. The results indicate that although there was a general correlation between the neurological level of injury and the expected vesicourethral function, it was neither absolute nor specific. For example, 20 of 117 cervical cord lesions had detrusor areflexia, 42 of 156 lumbar cord lesions had detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia and 26 of 84 sacral cord had either detrusor hyperreflexia or detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia. However, if one considers the presence of neurological abnormalities, 84% of the suprasacral cord lesions with detrusor areflexia have sacral cord signs. In contrast, all suprasacral cord lesions with no evidence of sacral cord involvement have either detrusor hyperreflexia or detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia. The positive predictive value for positive sacral cord signs and detrusor areflexia was 87%. The positive predictive value for negative sacral cord signs and detrusor hyperreflexia/detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia was 81%. These data suggest that the clinical neurological examination alone is not an adequate barometer to predict neurourological dysfunction and that video-urodynamic evaluation provides a more precise diagnosis for each patient. 
The submandibular triangle in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx and hypopharynx. A 15-year retrospective analysis was carried out at the University of Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago, reviewing the tumor staging and pathology data of 239 patients treated for carcinoma of the larynx and hypopharynx requiring laryngectomy alone, laryngectomy with neck dissection, or laryngopharyngectomy and neck dissection. Surgery was the primary treatment modality in 205 of the 239 cases, with the remaining 34 having surgery to treat radiation therapy failure. Primary tumors were located within the supraglottic region, the glottic region and, less commonly, the pyriform sinus. Ninety-five of the 239 patients either presented with or developed nodal metastases following initial treatment. Of these, only two had tumors within the lymph nodes of the submandibular triangle. This data corroborates impressions that tumors of the larynx and hypopharynx rarely metastasize to the submandibular triangle and that sparing this area during neck dissection for lesions of the larynx would seem justified. 
Cardiac disturbances during the administration of taxol. The clinical development of taxol, a new antimicrotubule agent with a unique mechanism of cytotoxic action, has proceeded slowly due to serious hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) and shortages in its supply. Nevertheless, large-scale phase II trials have been initiated as taxol has recently demonstrated impressive activity in advanced and cisplatin-refractory ovarian carcinoma. Furthermore, the incidence of HSRs has been reduced substantially with premedications and modifications in the administration schedule. However, various manifestations of potential cardiotoxicity have been observed in several patients who participated in four phase I and II studies of taxol. Asymptomatic bradycardia has occurred in a high proportion of patients, including 29% of ovarian cancer patients who were treated with maximally tolerated doses of taxol in a phase II study. More profound cardiac disturbances, including a range of atrioventricular conduction blocks, left bundle branch block, ventricular tachycardia (VT), and manifestations of cardiac ischemia, have been observed in seven of 140 patients (5%) who received taxol. Descriptions of these events are presented in this report to alert investigators to the potential for these adverse effects. Although these disturbances did not result in serious sequelae in most patients, investigators should continue to maintain a high degree of caution until precise risk factors, frequency, and clinical significance of these adverse cardiac effects are determined. 
Factors affecting the rearrangement efficiency of an Ig test gene. A rearrangement test gene, pHRD, containing the mouse IgH enhancer and the metallothionein promoter, has previously been shown to rearrange efficiently after transfection into a pre-B cell line. Experiments are now reported that assess the requirements of the DNA substrate as well as of the transfected cells for efficient rearrangement. It was found that deletion of the metallothionein promoter or substitution of the IgH enhancer by the kappa enhancer did not affect rearrangement. However, deletion of the Ig enhancer reduced the efficiency. Transfection of pHRD into stable hybrids of pre-B cells and myeloma cells resulted in a high frequency of rearrangement only if certain myeloma chromosomes were lost. Furthermore, pHRD introduced into rearrangement incompetent myeloma cells upon subsequent cell fusion with pre-B cells was rearranged only very rarely and then apparently only immediately after cell fusion. Stable pre-B cell x myeloma hybrids that retained the critical myeloma chromosomes were found to have lost VDJ recombinase activity and transcripts of the RAG-1, RAG-2 and TdT genes. It is concluded that transcription, i.e., the copying of the DNA by polymerase, is probably not required for rearrangement, but that the rearrangement substrate must be in an "open" chromatin state, such as may be provided by transcriptional factors. Furthermore, the absence of rearrangement in myeloma cells is apparently due to the continued action of an inhibitor of rearrangement. 
Effects of subsequent pregnancy on left ventricular function in peripartum cardiomyopathy. Pregnancy has been discouraged in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) to avoid the risk of precipitating recurrent or progressive left ventricular dysfunction. We assessed left ventricular size and contractile function using echocardiography in four PPCM patients prior to pregnancy, during the third trimester, and a mean of 6 weeks postpartum. Left ventricular mean diameters at end diastole and at end systole prior to pregnancy (5.2 +/- 0.3 and 3.0 +/- 0.2 cm, respectively) did not change during pregnancy (5.2 +/- 0.3 and 3.1 +/- 0.2 cm). Similarly, left ventricular fractional shortening did not alter significantly during pregnancy or postpartum. Furthermore, no patient developed any symptoms or signs of left ventricular failure. All patients had normal babies, including one who had twins. We conclude that PPCM patients whose left ventricular function returns to normal may undertake further pregnancy with a normal fetal outcome and a low risk of recurrent left ventricular dysfunction. 
Smoking and mortality among older men and women in three communities. BACKGROUND. Although cigarette smoking is the leading avoidable cause of premature death in middle age, some have claimed that no association is present among older persons. METHODS. We prospectively examined the relation of cigarette-smoking habits with mortality from all causes, cardiovascular causes, and cancer among 7178 persons 65 years of age or older without a history of myocardial infarction, stroke, or cancer who lived in one of three communities: East Boston, Massachusetts; Iowa and Washington counties, Iowa; and New Haven, Connecticut. At the time of the initial interview, prevalence rates of smoking in the three communities ranged from 5.2 to 17.8 percent among women and from 14.2 to 25.8 percent among men. During five years of follow-up there were 1442 deaths, 729 due to cardiovascular disease and 316 due to cancer. RESULTS. In both sexes, rates of total mortality among current smokers were twice what they were among participants who had never smoked. Relative risks, as adjusted for age and community, were 2.1 among the men (95 percent confidence interval, 1.7 to 2.7) and 1.8 among the women (95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.4). Current smokers had higher rates of cardiovascular mortality than those who had never smoked (as adjusted for age and community, the relative risk was 2.0 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.9] among the men and 1.6 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 2.3] among the women), as well as increased rates of cancer mortality (relative risk, 2.4 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 4.1] among the men and 2.4 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 3.9] among the women). In both sexes, former smokers had rates of cardiovascular mortality similar to those of the participants who had never smoked, regardless of age at cessation, whereas the rates for all cancers, as well as smoking-related cancers, remained elevated among men who had once smoked. CONCLUSIONS. Our prospective findings indicate that the mortality hazards of smoking extend well into later life, and suggest that cessation will continue to improve life expectancy in older people. 
Pulmonary vascular reactivity in Fischer rats. We previously reported that Fischer (F) rat lungs developed more extensive injury when challenged with oxidants than age-matched Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat lungs. We now describe a reduced pulmonary vascular response to alveolar hypoxia and angiotensin II (ANG II) in F compared with SD rats. The comparative studies were performed with isolated lungs perfused with salt solution or blood, catheter-implanted awake rats, and isolated main pulmonary arterial rings. Isolated lungs from F rats perfused with either blood or salt solution had reduced vasoconstriction in comparison with lungs from SD rats when exposed to alveolar hypoxia or challenged with ANG II. Instrumented awake F rats had a smaller mean increase in total pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) than SD rats (35 vs. 94 mmHg.min.l-1, P less than 0.05) when challenged with 8% oxygen. The contractile response of isolated pulmonary artery but not thoracic aortic rings to KCl and ANG II was reduced in F compared with SD rats. In addition, F rats exposed to 4 wk of hypobaric hypoxia developed less pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy (when corrected for the hematocrit) than SD rats. We conclude that the oxidant stress-sensitive inbred F rat strain is characterized by a lung vascular bed that is relatively unresponsive to vasoconstricting stimuli. The mechanism underlying this genetic difference in lung vascular control remains to be defined. 
Herniated cervical disk presenting as ischemic chest pain. Myocardial ischemia must be the first concern of every emergency physician in evaluating chest pain in the adult patient. Any suspicion of myocardial ischemia must be promptly evaluated and admitted. The American College of Emergency Physicians has recently published a standards document on the care of chest pain in the adult patient. The emergency physician must be familiar with this document. Once myocardial ischemia and other life-threatening causes are ruled out, one can consider that cervical disk disease may be the cause of chest pain. We present two cases of patients who presented to the emergency department with signs and symptoms consistent with cardiac ischemia. Both patients were found to have herniated cervical disks. Subsequent surgical repair completely relieved their symptoms. Evaluation of the literature shows that this entity was well described from 1950 to the 1960s. Most recent discussions do not mention disk herniation as even an infrequent cause of chest pain. If there is no life-threatening disease present, one should consider cervical disk disease. 
Obstructed central venous catheters. Restoring function with a 12-hour infusion of low-dose urokinase. Thrombotic obstruction frequently prohibits infusion through or withdrawal of blood from central venous catheters and can occur in conjunction with symptomatic thrombosis of the subclavian vein. Thirty catheters were radiographically proved to be obstructed by thrombus and had not responded to at least one instillation of 5000 units of urokinase. All catheters were treated with a 12-hour infusion of urokinase at the rate of 40,000 units/hour. The obstructing thrombus was either eliminated or reduced in size in all instances and full function was restored in all but one catheter. No bleeding complications were seen. Six patients with obstructed catheters also had symptoms of subclavian vein thrombosis. All patients with symptoms of subclavian vein obstruction became asymptomatic on anticoagulant therapy even though no attempt at dissolving the thrombus obstructing the subclavian vein was made. A 12-hour infusion of low doses of urokinase can safely salvage function of obstructed catheters that otherwise may require replacement. Patients with concomitant subclavian vein thrombosis become asymptomatic on anticoagulant therapy without need to dissolve the obstructing thrombus. 
Diabetes mellitus and localizations of obliterating arterial disease of the lower limbs. Thirty patients with intermittent claudication (IC) and treated diabetes mellitus and 30 age- and gender-matched nondiabetic claudicants underwent a vascular examination by noninvasive ultrasound methods (continuous-wave Doppler, duplex scanner). The ankle/arm systolic pressure index did not differ in the two groups. Diabetic patients with IC had more (p less than .001) non-flow-reducing stenoses (lumen reduction less than 50%) and fewer (p less than .002) flow-reducing obstructions (lumen reduction greater than 50%) of the iliac arteries than nondiabetics had. These data are consistent with a preferentially distal (below the inguinal ligament) localization of arterial stenoses in diabetic patients, whereas iliac artery diseases are relatively more severe in nondiabetics. 
A prospective evaluation of arterial intimal injuries in an experimental model. The management of arterial intimal defects remains controversial because of uncertainty concerning their natural history. We developed an experimental canine model to prospectively evaluate posterior wall intimal flaps in the superficial femoral artery. Arterial intimal flaps were constructed in 20 anesthetized dogs (40 arteries) and evaluated by arteriography, and angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasound. Postoperative patency rates at 1 (n = 20) and 3 weeks (n = 20) were compared with a control group of ten animals (n = 20, arteriotomy without intimal flap). Acute thromboses occurred in five experimental arteries with thromboses of eight additional experimental arteries at followup. Control patency was 100%, while experimental group patencies were 75% (p less than 0.05) at 1 week and 60% (p less than 0.009) at 3 weeks. All thrombosed arteries had intimal flaps with greater than 75% luminal stenosis. We conclude that intimal injuries cause arterial thromboses acutely and during subsequent followup. Intimal flaps with stenosis greater than 75% as determined arteriographically are at greatest risk for thrombosis. Angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound characterize arterial intimal defects and may delineate injuries requiring surgical or endovascular repair. 
Internal biliary drainage, parenteral nutrition, and variation in the total parenteral nutrition feeding solutions: influence on the healing of colon anastomosis in jaundiced rats. The influence of preoperative internal biliary drainage and various types of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) on the healing of a colon anastomosis in 50 jaundiced rats was investigated. Jaundice was induced by division and ligation of the common bile duct. After 5 days a colon anastomosis was made. Ten days thereafter the bursting pressure of the anastomosis was measured as an assessment of wound healing. Bursting pressures were significantly lower in jaundiced rats compared with a sham-operated nonjaundiced group. Preoperative internal biliary drainage significantly improved bursting pressure (p less than 0.001) as did preoperative TPN (p less than 0.001). In the second part of the study the influence of four different feeding solutions on the healing of a colon anastomosis was tested. Solutions with and without 20% fat emulsion and a solution with branched-chain amino acids were tested as well as glucose only. No significant differences were observed among these four groups on the parameters tested. 
Angelchik prosthesis complicates treatment of adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus. Indications for use of the Angelchik prosthesis remain controversial, and many surgeons actively involved in the treatment of reflux disease have not used the device. We describe a case that illustrates difficulties associated with resection of a tumor in the presence of this prothesis. Such experience suggests that patients known to have Barrett's esophagus might be better treated with standard antireflux procedures. 
Six-year experience with a comprehensive approach to the treatment of recurrent childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL-REZ BFM 85). A relapse study of the BFM group. Between April 1985 and March 1987 130 children and adolescents up to 18 years of age with first relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were registered on the stratified and randomized multicentric trial ALL-REZ BFM 85 designed for patients pretreated with intensive front-line therapies. Stratification criteria were time and site of relapse: bone marrow (BM) relapse on or up to 6 months after stopping front-line therapy (group A), BM relapse beyond 6 months after therapy (group B), and isolated extramedullary relapse at any time (group C). Treatment consisted of alternating courses of polychemotherapy including randomly administered high- or intermediate-dose methotrexate (HDMTX:12 g/m2 as 4-hour infusion; IDMTX: 1 g/m2 as 36-hour infusion). During maintenance therapy the patients received daily oral thioguanine and biweekly intravenous (IV) MTX. The overall second complete remission (CR) rate was 92% (groups A, B, and C: 88%, 92%, and 100%), and the probability of event-free survival (EFS) at 6 years is 0.31 +/- 0.04 (groups A, B, and C: 0.18 +/- 0.05, 0.30 +/- 0.07, and 0.72 +/- 0.11). HDMTX did not prove to be superior to IDMTX, which led to premature stopping of randomization. Risk factor analyses showed early relapse, particularly BM relapse within 18 months, and T-cell phenotype to be independent predictors of poor outcome. The incidence of central nervous system (CNS) relapses following BM relapse was 19%, indicating that reprophylaxis to the CNS with IV/intrathecal (IT) MTX was insufficient. For 17 children who received bone marrow transplantation in second CR from HLA-compatible siblings the EFS was 0.53 +/- 0.12 at 5 years. Their outcome was not influenced by the above-mentioned risk factors. With the proposed treatment regimen long-lasting second remissions can be achieved in about one third of patients even after intensive front-line treatment. 
Validity of cerebrovascular mortality rates. Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) mortality rates are being increasingly used to establish a relationship with coronary heart disease risk factors. Cerebrovascular mortality rates suffer from the same general defects as coronary heart disease mortality rates but with greater diagnostic error in regard to subdivisions of CVD or stroke. These vital statistics, whether national or regional, are too inaccurate for scientific use and cannot be regarded as representing true mortality rates for any country. Moreover, clinical CVD is an inappropriate surrogate for severity of atherosclerosis, providing inexact data and allowing indeterminate overlap in epidemiologic studies. 
Tumor regulation of hepatic glutamine metabolism. Fast-growing tumors are major glutamine consumers and may alter host glutamine metabolism to benefit the tumor. Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that the liver switches from an organ of glutamine balance to one of glutamine release with progressive malignant growth. However, the regulation of this change is unclear. This study examined tumor modulation of hepatic glutamine metabolism by determining the activities of glutaminase, the principle enzyme of glutamine degradation, and glutamine synthetase, the principal enzyme of glutamine synthesis. Hepatic glutamine content was also determined. Rats with a fast-growing subcutaneous fibrosarcoma (TBR) and pair-fed controls were studied at 2 and 3 weeks after tumor or sham implantation, when the tumors comprised approximately 5% and 20% of total body weight. Arterial glutamine fell with progressive tumor growth (608 +/- 26 mumol/L in controls vs 494 +/- 15 in TBR, p less than 0.005) and was not attributable to a diminished food intake. Hepatic glutamine content was increased 45% (p less than 0.01) in tumor rats at 2 weeks due in part to a 35% fall in liver glutaminase activity. At 3 weeks, glutamine synthetase activity increased by 43% (0.58 +/- 0.07 mumol/mg of protein/hr in controls vs 0.83 +/- 0.04 in TBR, p less than 0.01) whereas glutaminase remained depressed (2.68 +/- 0.12 mumol/mg of protein/hr in controls vs 2.22 +/- 0.15 in TBR, p less than 0.05) and glutamine content fell compared to 2 week tumor-bearing rats, consistent with accelerated hepatic glutamine release. Tumors may alter liver glutamine metabolism by modulating hepatic enzyme activity in order to provide circulating glutamine for the growing malignancy. 
Phase I trial of fluorouracil modulation by N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate and 6-methylmercaptopurine riboside: optimization of 6-methylmercaptopurine riboside dose and schedule through biochemical analysis of sequential tumor biopsy specimens. Preclinical and clinical studies demonstrate that the selective antitumor activity of fluorouracil (5-FU) is enhanced by agents which perturb certain intracellular nucleotide pools. We previously demonstrated that the combination of N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA), which depletes pyrimidine nucleotide pools, and 5-FU yielded a 43% response rate among 37 assessable patients with colorectal carcinoma. In preclinical tumor models, 6-methylmercaptopurine riboside (MMPR), an inhibitor of purine synthesis, elevates phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) pools and promotes the anabolism of 5-FU to fluorinated nucleotides. In vivo, the addition of MMPR enhances the therapeutic efficacy of PALA-5-FU. In a phase I trial, we sought to determine the optimal dose and schedule of MMPR in combination with PALA (250 mg/m2 on day 1) and 5-FU (1300 mg/m2 by 24-hour infusion on day 2). MMPR (75-225 mg/m2) was given intravenously on day 1 to 27 patients with solid tumors (15 colorectal, seven breast, five other). Toxic effects were mild to moderate and included leukopenia, mucositis, nausea, or rash. Two of seven patients given MMPR at 225 mg/m2 had grade 3 diarrhea. PRPP was measured using a [14C]orotic acid 14CO2 release assay in tumor biopsy specimens obtained before and 12 hours and 24 hours after MMPR doses were given to 20 patients. The addition of MMPR elevated PRPP pools in human solid tumors. At 12 hours after treatment, two (50%) of four patients showed a twofold or greater elevation of PRPP at the MMPR dose level of 75 mg/m2; a similar elevation was observed in five (71%) of seven patients given 150 mg/m2 MMPR and in three (43%) of seven patients given 225 mg/m2 MMPR. At 24 hours after treatment, results for the respective dose levels of MMPR were two (33%) of six patients, one (20%) of five patients, and four (57%) of seven patients. Administration of the two highest MMPR dose levels appeared to result in a greater increase in tumor PRPP levels. However, toxicity was greater at the 225 mg/m2 dose level; therefore, the 150 mg/m2 dose level was favored. Tumor levels of PRPP decreased between 12 hours and 24 hours in nine (56%) of 16 patients. This time course indicates that MMPR should be administered at the beginning of the 24-hour infusion of 5-FU. 
Age-dependent increase in deleted mitochondrial DNA in the human heart: possible contributory factor to presbycardia. Cardiac function deteriorates with age, and endogenous damage to mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) is believed to be a major contributory factor to aging. Mitochondria occupy a pivotal position in energy metabolism, and mitochondria have their own DNA, which encodes 13 subunits of the mitochondrial energy transducing system. Other subunits are encoded by nuclear DNA. DNA has been shown to have a high mutation rate, and genetic mutation might primarily be ascribed to mtDNA mutation in the energy transducing system. Recent advances in gene technology, especially in polymerase chain reactions (PCR), permit us to analyze mtDNA mutations in a small quantity of tissue. We devised rapid and accurate methods to detect mitochondrial mutations--the primer shift PCR method, PCR-Southern method, the modified primer shift PCR method, and the asymmetric PCR method. With these methods, we analyzed myocardia mtDNA in human cadavers of various ages (from 3 years old to 97 years old, mean 57 years old). The 7.4 kb deletion of mtDNA was commonly detected in elderly subjects, and the proportion of deleted mtDNA to normal mtDNA increased with age. Deleted mtDNA was observed in all subjects that were over 70 years old. The mutation was based on the directly repeated sequence: 5'-CATCAA-CAACCG-3', which exists in both the adenosine triphosphatase 6 gene and the displacement loop (D-loop) region. Replication impairment occurred at that directly repeated sequence, which caused the elimination of genomes between the adenosine triphosphatase 6 gene and the D-loop region and resulted in a 7.4 kb deletion. 
T-gamma-lymphoproliferative disorder arising in a background of autoimmune disease and terminating in plasma cell dyscrasia with primary amyloidosis. T-gamma-lymphoproliferative disorder, a syndrome of T-cell lymphocytosis with neutropenia has been described in patients with various autoimmune disorders, especially rheumatoid arthritis. We report a case of T-gamma-lymphoproliferative disorder occurring in a 42-year-old white woman with a long history of dermatitis herpetiformis and subsequent development of Coomb's positive autoimmune hemolytic anemia and polymyositis. The peripheral blood lymphocytes showed the T-suppressor cell phenotype (CD2-, CD3-, CD8-, and CD4-). DNA analysis of the peripheral blood lymphocytes revealed a T-cell receptor beta-chain gene rearrangement and an immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene rearrangement. The patient's course was marked by numerous bouts of infection. The unique factor in this patient was the development of a plasma cell dyscrasia and amyloidosis prior to death. 
Is a single quinsy an indication for tonsillectomy? There has recently been some discussion on whether a single quinsy is an indication for tonsillectomy. This paper presents a retrospective study of 36 patients who presented with a quinsy over the past 37 years but did not have interval tonsillectomy. Prolonged follow-up shows that the rate of recurrence of a quinsy can double compared to the recurrence rate under 5 years. Despite this it remains relatively low and an uncomplicated quinsy does not warrant tonsillectomy. 
Total coronary occlusion: a different animal? Provided collateralization is adequate, a chronic total coronary occlusion clinically imitates a 90% stenosis but is exempt from the risk of myocardial infarction. For angioplasty of vessels with chronic total coronary occlusion, technical difficulties and clinical risks are balanced against projected subjective benefit and amount of viable myocardium concerned. The primary success rate is approximately 65% and complications are rare because abrupt vessel reclosure may be common but is harmless. New Q wave infarction in that context has not been reported. The duration of occlusion is the most important predictor of success. The length of the occluded segment is also important. Recurrence averages 68% (21% reocclusion and 47% restenosis) and happens typically within 6 months. The high recurrence rate is due to competitive pressure exerted by collateral vessels and an often suboptimal local result. Even if the primary success rate of angioplasty in vessels with chronic total coronary occlusion can be improved by advanced technology and skill, the clinical yield will remain low compared with that of angioplasty of stenoses. Because low yield procedures must be low risk and low cost, there are definite limits to how sophisticated, risky and expensive new techniques can become. Derivatives of conventional balloon systems are likely to remain the equipment of first choice, perhaps complemented by mechanical drills. Although chronic total coronary occlusions are no clinical menace in contrast to stenoses, they frequently deserve revascularization and are the reason to select bypass surgery over angioplasty. These factors justify endeavors to improve recanalization techniques that help to refine coronary angioplasty of nontotal lesions, because total occlusion, albeit a different animal, is of the same species. 
Effects of long-term amiodarone therapy on the defibrillation threshold and the rate of shocks of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. The effects of long-term amiodarone therapy on the defibrillation thresholds and the rate of shocks were evaluated in 62 patients who had implantation of an automatic cardioverter-defibrillator (n = 53) or prophylactic implantation of patch electrodes (n = 9) who were survivors of sudden cardiac death (n = 34) or had refractory rapid ventricular tachycardia (n = 28). There were 53 men and 9 women, with ages ranging from 18 to 76 years (mean +/- SD, 60 +/- 12). Coronary artery disease occurred in 50 patients (80.6%), cardiomyopathy occurred in six (9.7%), valvular heart disease developed in two (3.2%), primary electrical disease developed in two (3.2%), hypertensive heart disease materialized in one (1.6%), and Ebstein's anomaly occurred in one (1.6%). The left ventricular ejection fraction varied from 10% to 75% (mean, 37 +/- 17%). All patients had failed a mean of 3.9 +/- 1.6 antiarrhythmic drugs prior to implantation of the device. Twenty-eight patients (45%) were taking amiodarone up to the time of surgery, with a mean daily dose of 406 +/- 147 mg (range 200 to 800) and for a mean duration of 6.0 +/- 6.7 months (range 1 to 36 months). The mean defibrillation threshold (DFT) was 12.0 +/- 4.4 joules (range 5 to 20) in the group taking amiodarone and was not significantly different from that of the group not taking amiodarone (n = 32) (mean DFT 12.3 +/- 5.5 joules, range 5 to 30; p = 0.77). 
Increased occurrence of arrhythmias in men with ischaemic type ST-segment depression during long-term ECG recording. Prognostic impact on ischaemic heart disease: results from the prospective population study 'Men born in 1914', Malmo, Sweden. The objective of this long-term ECG (LTER) study in 394 68-year-old men, selected at random from the general population of Malmo, Sweden, was to determine the prevalence and occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and their impact on morbidity and mortality from IHD. According to Lown classification, 29.4% (116 men) had ventricular arrhythmia (VA) group 4-5. Serious ventricular arrhythmia (Lown group 4-5) was more common in men with asymptomatic ischaemic type ST-segment depression (STD) than in those without it (37.8% vs. 26.7%: P less than 0.05). During the mean follow-up period of 53.1 months there were seven IHD deaths (6%) among the 116 patients with VA, Lown 4-5, and nine IHD deaths (3.2%) among the 278 patients without serious VA, Lown 0-3, (P = 0.26). Six and three of these deaths, respectively, were considered to be sudden (P = 0.022). The increased cardiac event rate (fatal or non-fatal MI or deaths due to chronic IHD) associated with a serious ventricular arrhythmia disappeared when history of IHD at baseline and occurrence of STD during LTER were taken into account. The study did not provide any evidence to suggest that ventricular arrhythmia was triggered by myocardial ischaemia. Five of 9 (56%) deaths due to IHD in men with STD occurred among the 38% (37/98) of patients who belonged to Lown class 4-5. It is concluded that the prognostic information derived from LTER can be improved by combined monitoring of STD and ventricular arrhythmias. 
Restenosis 1 to 24 months after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty: a necropsy study of 20 patients. This report describes clinical, morphologic and histologic findings at necropsy late (range 1.6 to 24.1 months [average 8.2 months]) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty in 20 patients with coronary angioplasty restenosis. Clinical evidence of restenosis occurred in 14 patients (70%), including 6 patients with sudden coronary death. Of the 20 patients, 14 (70%) had a cardiac cause of death and 6 (30%) had a noncardiac cause of death. Two major subgroups of histologic findings were observed: 1) intimal proliferation (60%), and 2) atherosclerotic plaque only (40%). Of the eight sites with atherosclerotic plaque only, six were eccentric lesions and two were concentric lesions. No morphologic evidence of previous angioplasty injury (cracks, breaks, tears) was observed in the eight patients with atherosclerotic plaque only. Proposed mechanisms for the development of intimal proliferation involve the reaction of smooth muscle cells and platelets, whereas elastic recoil of overstretched eccentric or concentric atherosclerotic lesions represents the most likely explanation for the findings in the latter subgroup. On the basis of these morphologic findings at angioplasty restenosis sites, specific treatment strategies for restenosis after coronary artery balloon angioplasty are proposed. 
Chemotherapy and radiation therapy for anal carcinoma. Survival and late morbidity. This study was performed to evaluate the survival and late morbidity rates of a widely used combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy regimen given to patients with carcinoma of the anal canal. One hundred six patients received radiation therapy (5000 cGy given by two anteroposterior-posteroanterior [AP-PA] opposed fields) and chemotherapy (mitomycin C plus 5-fluorouracil [5-FU]) from 1983 to 1989. Patients with primary tumors (n = 86) had a complete response rate of 84% and a 5-year survival rate of 72%. There was no significant difference in survival rate according to tumor stage. Patients with local recurrence (n = 20) after primary surgery had a complete response rate of 50% and a 5-year survival rate of 40%. Fifteen percent of the patients experienced late treatment-related symptoms including anal incontinence, intestinal obstruction, and chronic pelvic pain. The current treatment regimen is effective but carries a considerable risk of complications. As survival rate was independent of tumor stage, the locoregional treatment should probably be less extensive for small tumors than for advanced tumors. This strategy may reduce the late side effects for patients with small tumors without reducing the survival rate. 
Sonography of the gallbladder: significance of striated (layered) thickening of the gallbladder wall. Sonographic identification of thickening of the gallbladder wall that consists of multiple striations (alternate hypoechoic and hyperechoic layers) has been considered strong evidence of the presence of acute cholecystitis. We studied 27 patients in whom sonograms showed striated thickening of the gallbladder wall to determine the diagnostic significance of this finding. Striations were classified as focal or diffuse. Sonograms were correlated with pathologic findings in 16 patients and with clinical diagnoses and laboratory findings in 11. Patients were categorized as having cholecystitis with or without gangrene or edema of the gallbladder wall unrelated to gallbladder disease. Striated thickening of the gallbladder wall was due to cholecystitis in 10 patients, and all 10 had gangrenous changes at surgery or at pathologic examination. Striations were focal in eight of these patients and diffuse in two. Striated thickening of the gallbladder wall was due to edema of the wall unrelated to gallbladder disease in 17 patients. Causes included congestive heart failure (n = 4), renal failure (n = 5), liver disease (hepatic failure [n = 1], hepatitis [n = 6]), ascites (n = 2), hypoalbuminemia (n = 3), pancreatitis (n = 1), blockage of the lymphatic/venous drainage of the gallbladder (n = 2), and prominent Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses (n = 1). More than one abnormality was present in five patients. Striations were focal in 11 of these patients and diffuse in six. The sonographic finding of striated gallbladder wall thickening is no more specific for cholecystitis than the observation of gallbladder wall thickening by itself, and it may occur in a variety of diseases. However, in the clinical setting of acute cholecystitis, the presence of striations suggests gangrenous changes in the gallbladder. The extent of the striations (focal or diffuse) is not useful in predicting the cause of the striated gallbladder wall thickening. 
Anastomotic recurrence of carcinoma of the colon and rectum. The value of endoscopy and serum CEA levels. The early diagnosis of anastomotic recurrence after surgery for carcinoma of the colon and rectum is difficult. Whether repeat colonoscopy and serial serum CEA measurements were useful in diagnosing early anastomotic recurrence was examined. A total of 112 patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum who had undergone resection and anastomosis were followed with frequent colonoscopy and serum CEA measurements. Seventeen patients developed anastomotic recurrence. Fourteen patients had elevated serum CEA levels, and 15 patients had endoscopic evidence suggesting recurrence at the anastomotic site. CT scans of the abdomen and pelvis demonstrated metastatic disease in seven patients, localized anastomotic disease in six patients, and no evidence of disease in four patients. Laparotomy was then carried out in 10 patients. In eight of 10 patients, it was possible to resect localized disease. In a 3-year follow-up study, eight patients were alive, four without any evidence of recurrent disease. Repeat colonoscopy and serum CEA measurements are recommended as postoperative surveillance for carcinoma of the colon and rectum. In select cases laparotomy and resection may prolong survival. 
Significance of atherosclerotic changes of the ascending aorta during coronary bypass surgery with intraoperative detection by echography. Intraoperative echographic studies of the ascending aorta were carried out on 100 of 222 patients having primary coronary bypass surgeries between May 1987 and December 1988. The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of echographic study in evaluating the nature of atherosclerotic disease of the ascending aorta and its incidence and relationship to perioperative cerebrovascular complications in coronary bypass surgery. It was possible to obtain clear echographic images of the aortic wall in these 100 patients which were divided into two groups according to the degree of the degenerative process. Three of 13 patients (23%) (Group II) with severe atherosclerotic changes, suffered perioperative cerebrovascular complications, and early surgical mortality in 2 patients (15%) was caused by cerebrovascular complications. These complications were not seen in 87 patients with less than moderate atherosclerotic changes (Group I). 
Immediate effect of vagotomy on pancreatic insulin secretion. The effect of vagotomy and gastric resection on insulin secretion was examined by the glucagon stimulated C-peptide test in gastrectomy patients (n = 11) without truncal vagotomy and in total gastrectomy patients (n = 10) with truncal vagotomy. The test was performed twice in each patient: 10 minutes after the midline incision was made and then 60 to 90 minutes later when gastric resection or total gastrectomy was completed, during the reconstructive phase of the operation. Gastric resection without truncal vagotomy was followed by a higher increase (48%) in serum C-peptide concentration caused by glucagon stimulation than total gastrectomy with truncal vagotomy (13%). There was a significant (p less than 0.05) increase in the glucagon stimulated glucose-related C-peptide concentration in patients without truncal vagotomy, whereas truncal vagotomy inhibited this increase. These results suggest that truncal vagotomy will produce a reduction in stimulated insulin secretion in humans. 
Tranexamic acid treatment of hemothorax in two patients with malignant mesothelioma. Patients with malignant mesothelioma may present with hemothorax. We used a combination of oral and intrapleural tranexamic acid to treat two patients with this severe complication. Initiation of treatment with this potent anti-fibrinolytic drug resulted in rapid reduction of bleeding and of transfusion requirements. 
Emergency management of the adult female rape victim. Estimates are that one in every six women is raped during her lifetime. The family physician must be able to evaluate and treat the rape victim in the emergency setting. A detailed history, careful physical examination, collection of medical specimens for legal purposes, assessment of the patient's psychologic state, prophylaxis of venereal disease and pregnancy counseling are required. 
Increased cell membrane arachidonic acid in experimental colorectal tumours. Tumour cell membrane fatty acid composition was investigated using an animal model of colorectal carcinogenesis. Eighty six male Wistar rats were fed experimental diets containing either 5% saturated fat or 20% saturated fat. Colorectal tumours were induced by intraperitoneal injection of azoxymethane, and control rats received saline. Animals were killed at intervals up to 26 weeks after the last injection of carcinogen for histology and lipid analysis. Cell membrane fatty acids in colonic mucosa and colorectal tumours were determined by gas liquid chromatography. Animals fed the 20% fat diet developed more carcinomas (28 cancers in 14 rats) than those fed the 5% fat diet (14 cancers in 15 rats; chi 2 = 8.03, p = 0.0046) but they did not develop significantly more adenomas (28 and 24 respectively). Cell membrane fatty acid analysis showed a considerable increase in the content of arachidonic acid (20:4, n-6) in the tumours (mean (SEM) 11.7 (1.5)%) compared with colonic mucosa (4.2 (0.4)%; p less than 0.05). Dietary fatty acid composition was also found to influence the profile of fatty acids in the colonic mucosa. This study suggests that a high saturated fat diet promotes the malignant transformation of colorectal adenomas. The colorectal tumours were characterised by an increased cell membrane arachidonic acid, the precursor of putative cancer promoting prostaglandins. 
Orifice variability of the stenotic aortic valve: evaluation before and after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. The effects of balloon aortic valvuloplasty on orifice variability of the stenotic sclerocalcific aortic valve were evaluated by hemodynamic measurements of aortic valve function in 14 patients before balloon aortic valvuloplasty, during nitroprusside infusion before valvuloplasty, 48 h after valvuloplasty and during nitroprusside infusion 48 h after valvuloplasty. Aortic valve function was assessed by aortic valve area calculations with use of the Gorlin and Cannon formulas. Nitroprusside infusion before balloon aortic valvuloplasty caused no change in mean aortic valve gradient but a significant increase in mean aortic transvalvular flow from 186 +/- 46 to 202 +/- 61 ml/s (p less than 0.05), in Gorlin aortic valve area from 0.49 +/- 0.17 to 0.53 +/- 0.21 cm2 (p less than 0.05) and in Cannon aortic valve area from 0.45 +/- 0.18 to 0.49 +/- 0.22 cm2 (p less than 0.05). Nitroprusside infusion 48 h after valvuloplasty induced no change in mean aortic valve gradient but a significant increase in mean aortic transvalvular flow from 214 +/- 61 to 254 +/- 78 ml/s (p less than 0.005), in Gorlin aortic valve area from 0.71 +/- 0.25 to 0.83 +/- 0.32 cm2 (p less than 0.01) and in Cannon aortic valve area from 0.78 +/- 0.33 to 0.88 +/- 0.40 cm2 (p less than 0.05). Forty-eight hours after valvuloplasty, nitroprusside infusion induced a larger increase (40 +/- 40 ml/s) in mean transvalvular flow than before valvuloplasty (16 +/- 27 ml/s; p less than 0.05) and a larger increase (0.12 +/- 0.14 cm2) in Gorlin aortic valve area than before valvuloplasty (0.05 +/- 0.07 cm2; p less than 0.05). 
Tissue plasminogen activator reduces brain injury in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke. Tissue plasminogen activator is an endogenous fibrin-specific serine protease with potent thrombolytic activity. We investigated the efficacy of tissue plasminogen activator in reducing cerebral infarct size after thromboembolic stroke in a rabbit model. Seventeen rabbits were randomized to receive either tissue plasminogen activator (2.5 mg/kg, n = 6) or vehicle control (n = 11). We controlled mean arterial pressure, hematocrit, and arterial blood gases before and after the intracarotid embolization of an autologous clot. Cerebral blood flow (cm3/100 g/min) (mean +/- SEM) was immediately reduced from 55.2 +/- 7.7 to 8.5 +/- 2.5 in the control group and from 61.8 +/- 14.8 to 10.0 +/- 3.5 in the treated group after embolization. Cerebral blood flow recovered significantly within 60 minutes of thrombolytic therapy and attained a value of 59.6 +/- 10.0 cm3/100 g/min 4 hours after embolization, whereas cerebral blood flow in control animals demonstrated only a minimal recovery to 15.3 +/- 8.9 cm3/100 g/min. Cerebral infarct size (percent of hemisphere) was reduced from 34.4 +/- 5.6% in control animals to 8.8 +/- 5.6% in treated animals (mean +/- SEM, p less than 0.01). These results suggest that tissue plasminogen activator may be efficacious in restoring cerebral blood flow and thus limiting infarct size in acute thromboembolic stroke. 
Stage T1 bladder cancer: grade is the primary determinant for risk of muscle invasion. Tumor characteristics believed to predict for deep muscle invasion after transurethral resection of superficial bladder cancer alone were analyzed in 51 patients with stage T1 (stage A) transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. All patients were treated at Stanford University Medical Center and none had intravesical chemotherapy at any time during the median followup of 78 months. No patient had carcinoma in situ. A total of 14 patients (27%) had deep muscle invasion. None of the patients with grade 1, 5 (22%) with grade 2 and 9 (50%) with grade 3 to 4 tumors had deep muscle invasion. Comparison of the risk of muscle invasion using pathological tumor grade at diagnosis, highest grade at any cystoscopic biopsy before the diagnosis of muscle invasion or highest grade at cystoscopic biopsy immediately antecedent to the cystoscopy at which muscle invasion was diagnosed all showed similar probability of muscle invasion. Mean interval to development of muscle invasion was 6 and 12 months in the grades 2 and 3 to 4 groups, respectively. At 36 months the cumulative probability of invasion-free survival was 62% for grade 2, compared to 50% for grades 3 to 4 cancer patients (p less than 0.005, Gehan). Univariate regression analysis demonstrated grade to be the only significant factor in predicting for invasive disease (p = 0.005), with tumors in the bladder neck to be of borderline significance (p = 0.159). On multivariate logistic regression analysis, grade remained the single tumor variable predicting for invasive bladder cancer (p = 0.004). These data suggest that of routinely available data at diagnosis and during subsequent followup cystoscopic examinations, tumor grade is the most important biological predictor of progression to muscle invasive cancer. 
Efficacy of quinine for falciparum malaria according to previous chloroquine exposure. Chloroquine has been reported to antagonise the anti-parasitic action of quinine against Plasmodium falciparum in vitro. We looked for evidence of any such antagonism in vivo. In 123 Malawian children with cerebral malaria treated with parenteral quinine, the likelihood of survival and the rate of recovery were much the same in patients who had taken chloroquine and those who had not. In these circumstances we found no evidence of chloroquine/quinine antagonism. 
Influence of the ultrasonic surgical aspirator on the dura and spinal cord. An electrohistologic study. The influence of the ultrasonic surgical aspirator on the dura and underlying spinal cord was examined. Spinal-cord-evoked potential was simultaneously recorded. In a test of identical time, the degree of influence on the dura, the pia mater, and the spinal cord increased according to the increase of energy of the ultrasonic surgical aspirator. With 60% energy at 20 seconds and 80% energy at both 10 and 20 seconds, spinal-cord-evoked potential showed wave changes. In light of these results, it is suggested that in using the ultrasonic surgical aspirator on the dura, the electrohistologic safety limit be set at 60% energy and the maximum time duration at one point less than 10 seconds. 
Idiopathic trigeminal pain associated with gustatory stimuli. We present a unique case of a patient with facial pain evoked by gustatory stimuli. Pain was typically evoked by application of sucrose to the ipsilateral anterior 2/3 of the tongue, but not to the contralateral aspect. Pain was referred to the maxillary tuberosity area and, when stronger, to the infraorbital and supraorbital regions. Sucrose was most effective in eliciting pain, whilst saline, citric acid and water had a minimal effect. Spatial or temporal summation of gustatory stimuli was associated with stronger pain of longer duration and shorter latency. Some of the pain characteristics were similar to those of idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia. Thus, pain was elicited by innocuous ipsilateral stimuli, referred out of the stimulus zone, persisted beyond the period of stimulation and could be controlled with carbamazepine. We proposed a central neural mechanism for pain induction with convergence between gustatory stimuli afferents and pain pathways in the trigeminal system. 
Heart rate response to an i.v. test dose of adrenaline and lignocaine with and without atropine pretreatment. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of an adrenaline test dose for detecting intravascular injection and the effect of atropine pretreatment, 90 ASA physical status I and II patients were allocated randomly to two groups, to receive i.v. saline 1 ml (n = 46) or i.v. atropine 0.5 mg (n = 44). Five minutes later, all patients received an i.v. test dose of 2% lignocaine 3 ml with adrenaline 15 micrograms at a rate of 1 ml s-1. The groups were similar with respect to basal heart rate (HR). HR remained unchanged after saline injection, but increased slightly 5 min after atropine injection (mean 78 (SD 15) beat min-1 vs 87 (20) beat min-1 (P less than 0.05). After the test dose of lignocaine with adrenaline, HR increased significantly in both groups at 30 s, 1 and 2 min, and remained increased at 3 min in the atropine group. The maximum increase in HR was greater in the atropine group than in the saline group (31 (4) beat min-1 vs 26 (11) beat min-1 (P less than 0.05). However, when individual maximum HR changes are considered, five patients in the saline group and four in the atropine group had an increase less than or equal to 10 beat min-1, and three patients in the saline group had no change or a decrease in HR. Defining a positive result to a test dose as an increase in HR of greater than 10 beat min-1, the sensitivity of the adrenaline test dose was 83 (5.5)% in the saline group and 91 (3.5)% in the atropine group (ns). 
Radiation therapy for primary carcinoma of the extrahepatic biliary system. An analysis of 63 cases. From 1976 to 1988, 63 patients received radiation therapy for primary cancers of the extrahepatic biliary system (eight gallbladder and 55 extrahepatic biliary duct). Twelve patients underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. Chemotherapy was administered to 13 patients. Three patients underwent intraluminal brachytherapy alone (range, 28 to 55 Gy). Sixty patients received megavoltage external-beam radiation therapy (range, 5.4 to 61.6 Gy; median, 45 Gy), of whom nine received additional intraluminal brachytherapy (range, 14 to 45 Gy; median, 30 Gy). The median survival of all patients was 7 months. Sixty patients died, all within 39 months of radiation therapy. One patient is alive 11 months after irradiation without surgical resection, and two are alive 50 months after liver transplantation and irradiation. Symptomatic duodenal ulcers developed after radiation therapy in seven patients but were not significantly related to any clinical variable tested. Extrahepatic biliary duct cancers, the absence of metastases, increasing calendar year of treatment, and liver transplantation with postoperative radiation therapy were factors significantly associated with improved survival. 
Spinal cord schistosomiasis. A clinical, laboratory and radiological study, with a note on therapeutic aspects. Fourteen patients with schistosomiasis of the spinal cord are described. They fall into two groups: 7 patients had clinical and computer-assisted myelographic evidence of lesions in the conus medullaris or cauda equina, or both. The clinical picture in the remaining 7 patients was usually that of acute or subacute transverse myelitis with normal or equivocal CT myelographic appearances. Granulomas containing bilharzial ova were found in 2 female patients with conus swelling subjected to laminectomy and biopsy. In 1 of these the ova were identified as S. haematobium while in the second, unidentified bilharzial ova were found. A presumptive diagnosis of spinal cord schistosomiasis was made in the remaining 12 patients based on characteristic clinical and investigative profiles. All 13 patients tested showed evidence of bilharzial infection based on positive blood serology or the detection of bilharzial ova, or both. All but 1 patient showed at least one of the following abnormalities on CSF examination: pleocytosis, an elevated protein content and as indicated by the presence of oligoclonal IgG bands, an elevated IgG index and an increased CSF IgG synthesis rate. A CSF bilharzia enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test, developed to indicate the presence of schistosomal infection within the theca, was found to be sensitive although not entirely specific for the diagnosis of spinal cord schistosomiasis. Eleven of the 14 patients showed rapid clinical improvement, 8 after praziquantel and corticosteroid treatment, 2 after operation and 1 spontaneously. Significant reductions in the CSF cell count, protein concentration and bilharzia ELISA titre, and in intrathecal antibody production, occurred following praziquantel and corticosteroid therapy. The CSF sugar level showed a significant rise. A reduction in conus size was observed in 3 patients when CT myelography was repeated after medical therapy. The normalization of most of the laboratory parameters after combined medical treatment with praziquantel and corticosteroids, together with clinical and radiological improvement, strengthened the presumptive diagnosis of cord schistosomiasis and supports the policy of early intensive medical treatment (as opposed to surgical therapy) for this condition when diagnosed on indirect evidence. 
Malignant melanoma in the 1990s: the continued importance of early detection and the role of physician examination and self-examination of the skin. Despite the exciting new techniques being developed to help diagnose early malignant melanoma, the current standard of care remains periodic examination of the skin. The combination of routine physician examination coupled with self-examination of the skin provides an opportunity for the identification of early malignant melanoma. Removal of such thin lesions can significantly reduce the ever-increasing mortality rate from this potentially serious form of cutaneous cancer. 
The adverse impact of cyclosporine on serum lipids in renal transplant recipients. The extent to which cyclosporine (CsA) directly, or indirectly, influences serum lipid levels in renal transplant patients treated with multiple-drug immunosuppression protocols is unclear. Indeed, patients treated with CsA have reduced corticosteroid requirements, fewer acute rejection episodes, and other differences from patients receiving conventional immunosuppression that may reduce serum lipid levels. We studied patients treated with low-dose CsA, corticosteroids, azathioprine, and Minnesota antilymphocyte globulin ([ALG] n = 205) versus conventional (three-drug) immunosuppression (n = 368) and evaluated the impact of CsA, acute rejection episodes, and other clinical parameters on serum lipids. Fasting serum lipid levels from stable patients transplanted between 1976 to 1989 were studied at 3 (n = 573), 12 (n = 565), 26 (n = 55), and 52 (n = 521) weeks posttransplant using multivariate, linear regression analysis. The incidence of acute rejection episodes was reduced by CsA, but patients with fewer acute rejection episodes in the early posttransplant period had higher serum total cholesterol (increased by .33 +/- .12 mmol/L [13 +/- 5 mg/dL] and .27 +/- .12 mmol/L [10 +/- 5 mg/dL], P less than 0.05, at 3 and 12 weeks, respectively) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (increased by .23 +/- .11 mmol/L [9 +/- 4 mg/dL] and .23 +/- .11 mmol/L [9 +/- 4 mg/dL], P less than 0.05). 
Squamous metaplasia in hormonally treated prostatic cancer. Significance during follow-up. A prospective study of 59 hormonally treated prostatic cancer cases was undertaken during follow-up with sequential transrectal palpation and fine-needle aspiration. At initiation of therapy patients' ages ranged from forty-eight to eighty-two years (median, 68 years). The usual follow-up interval was 6 +/- 3 months, and follow-up periods ranged from six months to one hundred twenty months (median 48 months). The cytologic findings were categorized under four cytologic response types and palpation findings under five response grades. Four different degrees of squamous metaplasia (1+, 2+, 3+, 4+) were observed in smears, depending on semiquantitative determination of squamous metaplastic cells in relation to the total amount of benign and malignant epithelial cells in the smear. There were 341 follow-up observations in which both transrectal fine-needle aspiration cytology and palpation were done. In 306 of these, cytologic findings were found to be adequate. Comparison of squamous metaplasia with cytologic response types revealed a highly significant difference between the benign state and recurrence/frank malignancy. This was also true when frequency of squamous metaplasia was compared with palpatory response grades. It was found that squamous metaplasia can be a valuable adjunct to other cytomorphologic changes such as shrinkage of tumor cell size and decrease in size of nucleoli or its disappearance, in determining response to hormonal therapy. 
Effects of lipoprotein (a) on success rate of thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] and plasminogen share a high degree of homology as recently evidenced by amino acid and deoxyribonucleic acid analysis. As Lp(a) is enzymatically inactive, it has been suggested that high levels of Lp(a) may suppress the profibrinolytic activity at the cell surface and increase the risk for arteriosclerosis and thrombosis by competitive inhibition of plasminogen. The present study evaluated whether high levels of Lp(a) influence thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Forty-one patients with acute myocardial infarction received a combination low-dose thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and human single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (scu-PA). This regimen did not induce plasminemia or a lytic state as indicated by well-maintained levels of fibrinogen. Coronary patency was assessed angiographically 90 minutes after initiation of treatment. Thrombolysis was successful in 30 and unsuccessful in 11 patients. Patients with high Lp(a) levels (greater than or equal to 25 mg/dl) (n = 9) responded equally well to thrombolytic therapy (8 of 9, patency 89%) as did patients with normal or low levels of Lp(a) (22 of 32, patency 70%, difference greater than 0.1). Lp(a) levels did not differ significantly between patients with successful and unsuccessful thrombolysis. Our results demonstrate that high levels of Lp(a) do not affect thrombolysis in patients with acute myocardial infarction when low-dose pharmacologic concentrations of rt-PA and scu-PA are applied in combination. 
Mechanism of cyclosporine-induced hypertension. Cyclosporine is a common immunosuppressive agent used in solid organ and bone marrow transplants and the treatment of some immunological diseases. It has been established that treatment with cyclosporine can cause a patient to develop hypertension within a few weeks of treatment. This review will examine this effect and effective ways to treat it. 
A five-year appraisal and hemodynamic evaluation of the Bjork-Shiley Monostrut valve. Two hundred forty-four Bjork-Shiley Monostrut valves were implanted in 225 consecutive patients from October 1983 to December 1988. Aortic valve replacement was performed in 90 patients, mitral valve replacement in 118, and double valve replacement in 16 patients. One patient had tricuspid valve replacement. There were 100 female patients and 125 male patients with a mean age of 54 years (range 2 to 71 years). Present data were completely available for all patients. The cumulative follow-up was 541 patient-years with a mean of 2 years, 5 months. The closing date for follow-up was July 1989, and the closing interval was 2 months. The early mortality rate was 3.1%, and the late mortality rate, 3.1%. The 5-year survival rate was 88% +/- 2.0%: 87% +/- 3.0% for aortic valve replacement, 91% +/- 3.3% for mitral valve replacement, and 75% +/- 9.6% for double valve replacement. The actuarial rates of freedom from thromboembolism at 5 years were 93% +/- 3.2% for aortic, 96% +/- 1.4% for mitral, and 94% +/- 6.1% for double valve replacement. There were no instances of structural valve deterioration. Actuarial rate of freedom from valve-related morbidity and mortality was 86% +/- 2.0% at 5 years: 86% +/- 9.5% for aortic, 87% +/- 3.3% for mitral, and 75% +/- 7.3% for double valve replacement. Effective valve areas (average) of 12 mitral and 12 aortic valve prostheses were calculated at rest and during bicycle exercise: 2.4 cm2 at rest and 2.8 cm2 during exercise in 27 mm aortic valves, 2.4 cm2 at rest and 3.0 cm2 during exercise in 25 mm aortic valves, 2.0 cm2 at rest and 2.4 cm2 during exercise in 27 mm mitral valves, and 2.6 cm2 at rest and 2.5 cm2 during exercise in 29 mm mitral valve. On the basis of our follow-up period of 5 years, we have judged the Bjork-Shiley Monostrut valve reliable, with a low incidence of valve-related morbidity and with acceptably satisfactory hemodynamic characteristics at rest and during exercise. 
Reduction in susceptibility to natural killer cell-mediated lysis of human FO-1 melanoma cells after induction of HLA class I antigen expression by transfection with B2m gene. Induction of HLA class I antigens on cultured melanoma cells FO-1 after transfection with a human or a mouse B2m gene was associated with a statistically significant reduction in their susceptibility to natural killer (NK) cell-mediated lysis. These results indicate that the structural differences between human and mouse beta 2-mu do not abolish the ability of the HLA class I molecular complex to modulate NK cell-mediated lysis of melanoma cells FO-1. The role of HLA class I antigens in the phenomenon is corroborated by the ability of anti-HLA class I MAb to enhance, although to a different extent, the susceptibility of transfected FO-1 cells to NK cell-mediated lysis. Gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) significantly reduced the susceptibility to NK cell-mediated lysis of transfected FO-1 cells. Surprisingly, TNF-alpha reduced the extent of lysis more than IFN-gamma, although the latter cytokine enhanced HLA class I antigen expression more than the former one. This finding, in conjunction with a reduction in the susceptibility to NK cell-mediated lysis of untransfected FO-1 cells incubated with IFN-gamma or TNF-alpha, suggests that the two cytokines reduce NK cell-mediated lysis of transfected cells by modulating not only the expression of HLA class I antigens, but also that of other structures. Induction of HLA class I antigens and their modulation with IFN-gamma did not affect the susceptibility to lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell-mediated lysis of transfected FO-1 cells. Characterization of the molecular mechanism(s) underlying abnormalities in HLA class I antigen expression by melanoma cells and of the role of these molecules in the interactions of melanoma cells with various types of effector cells may suggest novel immunotherapeutic approaches to melanoma. 
Evaluation and management of stridor in the newborn. Stridor in a newborn should necessitate an immediate work-up to rule out a life-threatening airway obstruction. Three cases of newborns with stridor are presented. These cases emphasize the need for an immediate and thorough physical examination of any stridorous newborn, followed by radiologic studies and direct laryngoscopy. While other invasive procedures are frequently required for a precise diagnosis, a careful examination with special attention to the quality of the stridor often permits a more effective diagnostic approach in an atmosphere of appropriate urgency. 
Comparative evaluation of loracarbef and amoxicillin-clavulanate for acute otitis media. One hundred five infants and children with acute otitis media were randomized to therapy with loracarbef, an experimental carbacephem antibiotic, or amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin), an approved drug for this disease. Ninety-two were evaluable (46 in each group). Middle ear fluid samples obtained for culture before therapy grew Haemophilus spp. in 30% of cases, pneumococci in 29% of cases, and Moraxella catarrhalis in 15% of cases. beta-Lactamase-producing bacteria were found in 37% of patients. Clinical failure occurred in four loracarbef-treated patients and one amoxicillin-clavulanate-treated patient (P = 0.361). Recurrence of acute otitis media was more common in the 2 to 3 weeks after loracarbef treatment (eight patients) than it was after amoxicillin-clavulanate therapy (three patients), but not significantly so (P = 0.197). Thus, combined failure and recurrence occurred in 12 loracarbef-treated patients and four amoxicillin-clavulanate-treated patients (P = 0.052). Gastrointestinal side effects occurred in 13 loracarbef-treated and 21 amoxicillin-clavulanate-treated patients (P = 0.13). Diaper rash was more common with amoxicillin-clavulanate (22 patients) than with loracarbef (10 patients; P = 0.016). Satisfactory results were achieved with both antibiotics, and adverse effects, although common, were minor. 
Psychosocial aspects of chronic, clinically unconfirmed vulvovaginitis Women with chronic symptoms of vulvovaginitis referred to a university vulvovaginitis clinic were assessed on psychological and social (including sexual) variables to determine whether differences existed among women with unconfirmed vulvovaginitis, women with confirmed vulvovaginitis, and healthy controls. Eighty-three consecutive women with chronic symptoms of vulvovaginitis and 32 asymptomatic control women completed clinical examinations, cultures, and the following psychological tests or questionnaires: the Brief Symptom Inventory, the Center for Epidemiologic Studies--Depression Scale, the Dyadic Adjustment Scale, a sexual behavior and response questionnaire (Campion), and a study questionnaire. Statistical analyses (chi 2 and analysis of variance) were performed on the confirmed and unconfirmed vulvovaginitis and control groups of women. Women with confirmed and unconfirmed vulvovaginitis scored higher than control women on several psychological variables, but women with unconfirmed vulvovaginitis were found to be significantly more emotionally distressed on psychological tests and to report more discomfort during sexual intercourse than both women with confirmed vulvovaginitis and healthy controls. Psychosocial inquiry is important in the clinical assessment and management of such women. 
The role of radical surgery in the management of radiation recurrent and large volume prostate cancer. Twenty-two patients seen between 1975 and 1988 were analyzed who had surgical attempts to cure locally advanced prostate cancer by exenterative procedures or salvage surgery for radiation recurrent disease. Twelve patients (Group I) underwent either a salvage cystoprostatectomy or perineal prostatectomy for radiorecurrent disease, including three patients with a Kock continent urinary diversion done in combination with the salvage operation. Five of the 12 (41.7%) recurrent disease confined to the surgical specimen and 11 of 12 (91.7%) are alive at a mean follow-up of 49 months, including four patients (25%) with a completely negative serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) value (less than 0.2 ng/dl). All perineal prostatectomy patients are continent, and two of the three Kock pouch patients are continent. Ten of the 22 patients (Group II) had a cystoprostatectomy or exenteration for locally advanced disease that the surgeon did not think was amenable to standard radical prostatectomy. Only one of these ten patients had negative surgical margins, capsule, and seminal vesicles. Nine are alive (although only one patient has no evidence of disease) at a mean follow-up of 59 months. Morbidity was substantial with a 50% major complication rate including four patients requiring reoperation because of bleeding, abscess, bowel obstruction, or colostomy closure. Salvage procedures for radiorecurrent disease can be done safely, even with the inclusion of a continent diversion, and may be curative or provide survival benefit to carefully selected patients. Cystoprostatectomy or exenteration for locally advanced disease does not appear to be a curative endeavor for most patients and may be accompanied by significant morbidity. 
Drug-induced modification of vascular structure: effects of antihypertensive drugs. It has long been realized that hypertension causes alterations in the peripheral vasculature, with the arterial wall becoming thicker and the lumen relatively smaller. This is particularly true in small resistance arteries, but larger vessels are also affected. The precise mechanisms remain to be determined, although it is highly likely that growth-promoting autacoids are involved as well as mechanical forces. Numerous studies of hypertension in animal models and a few in hypertensive humans have tried to establish the reversibility of these changes after successful lowering of blood pressure. Too few data are available to form firm conclusions, but thiazides and hydralazine-like vasodilators appear to have only a minimal effect on the vasculature. On the other hand, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are clearly effective, and alpha-blockers may be active. However, it is difficult to derive even tentative conclusions from the available information on calcium antagonists and beta-blockers. These results are discussed in the context of future therapeutic and investigative approaches. 
Correlation between sexual abuse and somatization in women with somatic and nonsomatic chronic pelvic pain. After a comprehensive clinical and psychological evaluation, 99 women with pelvic pain of at least 6 months' duration and normal findings at laparoscopy were divided into two groups, including 47 women with probable somatic causes of pain (group 1) and 52 women without identifiable somatic abnormality (group 2). Women without identifiable somatic abnormality (group 2) were younger, had higher mean somatization scores, and reported an earlier mean age at first intercourse, a higher number of total sexual partners, and a higher prevalence of sexual abuse before the age of 20. Within group 2 (nonsomatic pain) but not within group 1, mean somatization scores were significantly higher among women with a history of sexual abuse than among women with a negative history. When analyzed as risks for nonsomatic pelvic pain, the positive predictive value of both a history of sexual abuse and a high somatization score was 78% (relative risk compared with that of women with zero or one risk factor, 2.1; p less than 0.0001). These data suggest that the psychosocial profile of women with nonsomatic pelvic pain differs from that of women with somatic pelvic pain and that previous sexual abuse is a significant predisposing risk for somatization and non-somatic chronic pelvic pain. 
Restenosis 1 to 24 months after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty: a necropsy study of 20 patients. This report describes clinical, morphologic and histologic findings at necropsy late (range 1.6 to 24.1 months [average 8.2 months]) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty in 20 patients with coronary angioplasty restenosis. Clinical evidence of restenosis occurred in 14 patients (70%), including 6 patients with sudden coronary death. Of the 20 patients, 14 (70%) had a cardiac cause of death and 6 (30%) had a noncardiac cause of death. Two major subgroups of histologic findings were observed: 1) intimal proliferation (60%), and 2) atherosclerotic plaque only (40%). Of the eight sites with atherosclerotic plaque only, six were eccentric lesions and two were concentric lesions. No morphologic evidence of previous angioplasty injury (cracks, breaks, tears) was observed in the eight patients with atherosclerotic plaque only. Proposed mechanisms for the development of intimal proliferation involve the reaction of smooth muscle cells and platelets, whereas elastic recoil of overstretched eccentric or concentric atherosclerotic lesions represents the most likely explanation for the findings in the latter subgroup. On the basis of these morphologic findings at angioplasty restenosis sites, specific treatment strategies for restenosis after coronary artery balloon angioplasty are proposed. 
Acute postinfarction septal rupture: long-term results. From 1973 to 1989, 66 patients received early surgical repair for acute postinfarction ventricular septal rupture. Mean age was 64 +/- 7 years (range, 45 to 80 years). Ventricular septal rupture occurred soon after acute myocardial infarction (3.4 +/- 4 days), and the first medical treatment occurred 6.7 +/- 7 days after onset of acute myocardial infarction. Three patients had a previous myocardial infarction. The site of the rupture was anterior in 38 patients (57%) and posterior in 28 (43%). Forty-four patients (67%) were in shock at the time of admission. Intraaortic balloon pumping was used preoperatively in 28. Operation was performed at the time of maximal efficacy of medical treatment. The same technique was used in all cases. Associated procedures included coronary bypass grafting in 5 patients and valvar operation in 5. The patients have been carefully followed up for up to 16 years. Hospital mortality was 45% (30 patients) and was cardiac related or due to acute renal failure in 25 patients (83%). No correlation could be revealed between early death and age, sex, preoperative intraaortic balloon pumping, or year of operation. Location of the ventricular septal rupture (early mortality of 57% for posterior versus 37% for anterior ventricular septal rupture) and shock at the time of admission (52% versus 32%) showed a trend toward significance (0.08 less than or equal to p less than 0.10). Response to initial active therapy has a strong predictive value (mortality of 70% in unresponsive patients versus 14% in responders; p less than 0.001). 
Acute traumatic cervical epidural hematoma from a stab wound. Cervical spinal epidural hematoma is an infrequent entity that usually requires emergency decompressive therapy because of rapid neurologic dysfunction. We present the case of a 34-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with minimal symptomatology after a stab wound to the neck. A computed tomography myelogram of the cervical spine revealed a cervical spinal epidural hematoma. This case illustrates an unusual presentation as well as etiology of cervical spinal epidural hematoma. 
Gastric duplication cyst. Endoscopic presentation as an ulcerated antral mass. A case of a 53-year-old man who presented with epigastric pain and weight loss is described. Endoscopy showed a smooth antral mass with what appeared to be a central overlying ulcer. Computerized tomography and upper gastrointestinal series confirmed the presence of a gastric mass. Laparotomy and local resection showed a gastric duplication comprised of two cysts, one with communication to the stomach lumen. Gastric duplication is a rare entity, especially in the adult. Though generally benign, local ulceration or fistula formation can cause symptoms and may suggest a more malignant process that warrants investigation. 
Biomechanics of fixation systems to the cervical spine. The biomechanical evaluation of a cervical spine implant must include flexural and torsional testing if it is used for stabilizing a traumatic unstable motion segment. A cadaveric model is presented that allows flexural and torsional testing of a cervical spine motion segment, measuring the tilting angle, the translation, and the torsional angle. After measuring the intact segments, in the first series, a so-called posterior instability was created and stabilized posteriorly with the hook-plate and sublaminar wiring; anteriorly with the H-plate; and with combinations of these implants. In a second series, their stabilizing effect after complete discoligamentous instability was tested. With isolated posterior instability, it was found that the flexural stability is preserved, whereas torsional stability is markedly reduced. In cases of isolated posterior instability, only hook plating alone or its combination with anterior H-plating seemed to bring about a higher torsional stability than the intact specimen. In cases of complete discoligamentous instability, only anterior H-plate and posterior hook plate procedures combined or the hook plate alone was able to guarantee both torsional and flexural stability higher than the intact spine. Exclusive posterior wiring without postoperative external immobilization in complete discoligamentous instability may result in permanent subluxation of the functional unit. Exclusive anterior H-plate fixation in complete discoligamentous instability requires additional external immobilization in the postoperative phase to prevent flexion and torsion. 
Postoperative vasospasm after antegrade mesenteric revascularization: a report of three cases. Vascular reconstruction for chronic intestinal ischemia can be accomplished by endarterectomy or aortomesenteric bypass. In our practice, antegrade bypasses from the supraceliac aorta to the celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery are currently the most frequently used techniques. Such reconstructions often use multiple or bifurcated large diameter vascular prostheses and have demonstrated excellent long-term patency. Despite these salutory results, we have noted an unusual perioperative response in three of these patients, which is the subject of this report. All three patients underwent uncomplicated elective mesenteric revascularization with grafts (diameter greater than or equal to 6 mm) originating in the supraceliac aorta. Indications for operation included (1) history of postprandial pain, (2) documentation of weight loss, and (3) angiographic evidence of advanced atherosclerotic disease with appropriate collateral development. Episodes of abdominal pain occurred 5 to 20 days after operation when normal food intake was reinstituted. In two patients immediate angiograms revealed patent grafts with diffuse mesenteric vasospasm. Treatment with intravenous hyperalimentation and nifedipine for 10 days resulted in complete resolution of symptoms. In the third patient, symptoms were totally relieved by temporary reduction in oral intake and administration of nifedipine. A later angiogram revealed a patent graft. All patients have remained asymptomatic and regained normal weight. This pattern of postrevascularization pain has not been seen in our patients undergoing revascularization with small (i.e., venous) conduits originating in the infrarenal aorta. The cause appears to be a heightened myogenic response of a "protected" vascular bed when suddenly exposed to the high perfusion pressure and blood flow of large caliber antegrade conduits. Prophylaxis with calcium channel blockers and use of smaller diameter grafts (5 mm) may avoid this disturbing syndrome. 
Immunohistological diagnosis of "plasmacytoid T cell lymphoma" in paraffin wax sections. An immunohistological study of paraffin wax embedded tissue from three cases of plasmacytoid monocyte neoplasms, using a panel of antibodies which react with fixation resistant leucocyte markers, is reported. This neoplasm was found to have a distinctive antigenic profile, being negative for CD3 and elastase, but positive for CD43 and CD68. This immunological phenotype, coupled with its characteristic morphological features, should facilitate the recognition of this rare neoplasm in routinely processed tissue. Furthermore, the term "plasmacytoid monocyte sarcoma" is proposed to designate it because it is inappropriate to refer to it as a lymphoma. As all cases have been associated with a myeloproliferative disorder (usually an acute or chronic myeloid leukaemia), these tumours probably represent the accumulation in lymphoid tissue of neoplastic cells which have differentiated along the plasmacytoid monocyte pathway. 
Migraine--why and how a cortical excitatory wave may initiate the aura and headache. A large number of clinical and neurophysiological observations are reviewed that clearly indicate that the symptoms of migraine aura result from a spread of an excitatory wave along the cortex from a primary focus. This excitation may start as a consequence of information overload to a low threshold cortical area. The transient neuronal excitation is followed by a long-lasting period of reduced cortical flow, which involves a substantial component of active constriction of resistance vessels, even persisting for several hours during the headache phase. When the excitatory wave has reached and activated free pain fiber endings in sufficiently many cortical vessels, off-branching peripheral motor endings of these fibers may become activated via axon reflexes. These motor endings may be located in cortical microvessels or in small vessels around large dural vessels. This leads to a neurogenic inflammation in the vessel walls, experienced as headache by the sufferer. The wall of dural sinuses offers a rational explanation for the beneficial effect of most medications used in migraine. 
Pelvic denervation for chronic pain associated with endometriosis: fact or fancy? The efficacy of presacral neurectomy and amputation of the uterosacral ligaments in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain has been debated for decades. These procedures used to be done mainly in women with normal pelves, but more recently they have been performed during conservative surgery for treatment of endometriosis. In the 1980s the rapid spread of laparoscopic surgery has led to an increasing number of endoscopic denervations in patients with chronic pelvic pain associated with endometriosis. However, an analysis of literature data has failed to prove that presacral neurectomy and amputation of the uterosacral ligaments are effective and did not demonstrate better results with the use of lasers rather than electrocoagulation. Moreover, no valid comparison has yet been made between laparotomy and laparoscopic methods. 
A phase II study of days 1 and 8 cisplatin and recombinant alpha-2B interferon in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Preclinical data from studies of human lung cancer xenografts suggest that the cytotoxic effects of cisplatin are enhanced by alpha-interferon. To verify the above observations, the authors initiated a Phase II trial in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Cisplatin was given at 100 mg/m2 during a 28-day cycle in a divided day 1 and day 8 schedule. Starting on day 1, alpha-2B interferon was administered intramuscularly at a dose of 5 million units three times a week continuously for a minimum of 2 months. Between January 1989 and September 1989, 30 patients were evaluated for response and toxicity. According to the staging system proposed by Mountain, 20 patients had Stage IV disease, 7 had Stage IIIB disease, and 3 had Stage IIIA disease. Expression of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and Leu-7 was immunohistochemically investigated to evaluate possible relationship to treatment response. The response rate was 13.3% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.2% to 25%). The four responders showed positivity for NSE, and two of them were positive for Leu-7. An average of three cycles was given. The mean dose intensity administered was 83% of the projected dose for cisplatin and 92% of the projected dose for alpha-2B interferon. A standard scale was used to assess interferon toxicity. Hematologic, renal, and systemic side effects were not significant. In advanced NSCLC the addition of alpha-2B interferon did not increase the cisplatin-induced response rate. Further studies should be performed to determine the real value of chemotherapy response in tumors showing positive immunoreactivity for neural markers such as NSE and Leu-7. 
Gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors. Fifty-five patients were evaluated and treated for gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoid tumors at our institution from 1968 through 1988. Thirty patients had primary tumors smaller than 1 cm and were treated surgically or endoscopically by local excision, whereas 25 underwent resection with regional lymphadenectomy for larger primaries. At the time of initial treatment 17 patients demonstrated metastasis. Although 13 of these patients had primary tumors larger than 2 cm, in four patients with ileal carcinoids, the primary measured 0.8 to 1.5 cm. Serosal involvement was present in nine of 17 patients with metastasis. With a follow-up range of 3 months to 20 years, six patients have died with metastatic carcinoid tumor, two patients died without evidence of disease, 12 patients are alive with metastasis, and 35 patients are alive, free of disease. In this series three determinants for risk of metastasis in GI carcinoid tumors were evident: primary size, serosal penetration, and primary site in the small intestine. In patients with any of these risk factors, resection with regional lymphadenectomy is recommended. 
Adrenocorticotropic hormone-independent bilateral adrenocortical macronodular hyperplasia as a distinct subtype of Cushing's syndrome. Enzyme histochemical and ultrastructural study of four cases with a review of the literature. Four patients with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-independent bilateral adrenocortical macronodular hyperplasia (AIMAH) were examined. All of them were men whose ages ranged from 37 to 52 years. Plasma cortisol levels were high, with a loss of diurnal rhythmicity, and plasma ACTH was undetectable. Adrenal cortisol secretion was not suppressed by dexamethasone, but it was ACTH responsive. Test results for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) also were negative. Image analyses revealed a normal sella turcica and significantly enlarged adrenal glands, which showed enhanced uptake of isotope. Both adrenal glands in all cases were between 72 and 176 g in combined weight and were composed of, and distorted by, yellow nodules. Histologically, small cortical cells with or without lipid, occasional clear cells, and rare compact cells of the usual size were increased in number in the glandular cords. Enzyme histochemically, cortical cells showed weaker activity for 3 beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and other enzymes than did usual cortisol-producing adenomas. Ultrastructurally, they had moderately to poorly developed smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Nonnodular areas of the cortex consisting of nonproliferating cells were atrophic and contained no compact cell zone. This is similar to the adrenal cortices attached to cortisol-producing adenomas. These features are unique to AIMAH and suggest the presence of a distinct subtype of Cushing's syndrome. 
Diagnosis and monitoring of subarachnoid hemorrhage by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography. Thirty-six patients with acute spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (26 caused by rupture of an aneurysm) were examined by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography by using a 2.25-MHz ultrasound transducer. In 20 of these 26 patients (76%), the aneurysm could be identified by a characteristic abnormal blood flow pattern within the aneurysm in coronal and axial scanning planes by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography. Blood within the basal cisterns, on top of the tentorium, and within the ventricles and parenchyma was sonographically detected by increased echodensity in 75%. In addition, cerebrospinal fluid circulation disturbances and cerebral vasospasm were detected in two-dimensional B-mode images in 85% and 100%, respectively. In Doppler mode, intravascular blood flow velocity could be quantified. We conclude that transcranial color-coded real-time sonography, a new, noninvasive method for diagnosis and follow-up of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, allows detection of the primary vascular lesion and monitoring of complications. 
Correlates of postural hypotension in a community sample of elderly blacks and whites. Postural hypotension is thought to be prevalent among the elderly, but few community-based studies of this condition have been conducted. In addition, little is known about postural hypotension in blacks despite well documented racial differences in hypertension and stroke. Data on 659 elderly (greater than or equal to 60 years of age) participants in a survey of two rural, biracial townships were analyzed to describe the frequency and correlates of postural hypotension. Twelve percent of the 659 adults experienced a drop of 10 mmHg or greater in systolic blood pressure on going from sitting to standing (supine measures were not available). This degree of postural hypotension was twice as common for whites as for blacks (14.5% vs 7.5%, P = 0.01). Postural hypotension was associated with elevated sitting blood pressure and showed positive but statistically non-significant relationships with anti-hypertensive medications and leanness. The association between race and postural hypotension persisted after adjusting for these and other risk factors (OR = 2.2, 95% CI:1.2,4.0). 
Gall stone disease in African patients with sickle cell anaemia: a preliminary report from Yaounde, Cameroon. Cholecystosonography was undertaken in 90 patients with sickle cell disease aged 15 years and over. Gall stones were found in 26 (28.9%) patients. There was no sex difference, but the incidence increased with age from 13.2% at under 20 years to 75% at 30 years and over. The mean serum cholesterol and total and unconjugated bilirubin concentrations were not significantly different between patients with and without gall stones. As most (80.8%) stones were radiolucent they were probably of pigment type, containing little or no calcium, and further investigation into how they are produced is needed. Sickle cell patients with acute abdominal crisis should have gall bladder disease excluded before a diagnosis of vascular crisis is made. 
Coronary heart disease risk factor profiles in black patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: paradoxic patterns. PURPOSE: Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) in black Americans consists of two variants: one with insulin resistance and one with normal insulin sensitivity. This study examined whether cardiovascular disease risk factors are significantly different between the two variants. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-two black patients with NIDDM in near-normoglycemic remission who were receiving no pharmacologic therapy for NIDDM were evaluated for insulin sensitivity by the euglycemic insulin clamp, plasma insulin levels, degree of obesity, glucose metabolism, serum total, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels, and fasting plasma triglyceride levels. RESULTS: Fifty-nine percent of these patients had normal insulin sensitivity (glucose disposal rate in response to a 1 mU.kg-1.minute-1 insulin infusion greater than 6.0 mg.kg-1.minute-1). The insulin-sensitive patients were less obese (body mass index [BMI] 26.5 +/- 0.6 versus 30.8 +/- 0.9 kg/m2) and had lower fasting plasma insulin levels (56.9 +/- 7.8 versus 88.0 +/- 6.0 pmol/L), lower serum cholesterol (4.47 +/- 0.30 versus 6.39 +/- 0.26 mmol/L), lower serum LDL cholesterol (2.77 +/- 0.31 versus 4.51 +/- 0.27 mmol/L), and lower fasting plasma triglyceride levels (0.83 +/- 0.08 versus 1.45 +/- 0.16 mmol/L) than the insulin-resistant patients. Serum HDL cholesterol was not different between the two groups and was in the high-normal range (1.31 +/- 0.08 and 1.19 +/- 0.07 mmol/L). Univariate analysis demonstrated that serum total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and fasting plasma triglycerides were highly correlated with insulin-mediated glucose disposal and fasting plasma insulin. The differences in insulin sensitivity and lipid profiles were independent of obesity, as they were present in six insulin-resistant and six insulin-sensitive patients matched for BMI. CONCLUSIONS: Black patients with the insulin-sensitive variant of NIDDM have a low risk factor profile for cardiovascular disease as compared with those with the insulin-resistant variant, who have a high risk factor profile. A high prevalence of the insulin-sensitive variant of NIDDM in the black population might explain the lower prevalence of angina and myocardial infarction in black patients with NIDDM as compared with white patients with NIDDM. 
Decreased adherence of interleukin 6-treated breast carcinoma cells can lead to separation from neighbors after mitosis. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) has been shown to inhibit the proliferation, but increase the motility, of wild-type ZR-75-1 human ductal breast carcinoma cells, a line of cells that resemble closely the malignant cells cultured from the ascitic effusion. IL-6-treated cells lose their epithelial character, become stellate or fusiform in shape, and migrate away from neighbors. In the wild-type ZR-75-1 cells, IL-6 causes cell-cell separation in preformed colonies as well as postmitotically. We have now investigated the action of IL-6 in clone B ZR-75-1 cells, which are morphologically distinct from wild-type ZR-75-1 cells. In the more polygonal rather than cuboidal clone B cells, IL-6 did not cause early inhibition of DNA synthesis and it caused little cell-cell separation in preformed colonies. However, IL-6 treatment markedly prolonged the interval between mitosis and readherence of daughter cells to their neighbors and the substratum. Supernatants from IL-6-treated cultures contained detached viable cells in increased numbers. Intermitotic intervals were prolonged in IL-6-treated cultures. IL-6-treated dividing breast carcinoma cells are characterized by an increased probability of separation from neighbors and the substratum. 
Visual function in patients undergoing long-term total parenteral nutrition. To evaluate the effects of long-term total parenteral nutrition (TPN) on eye function, 27 adults and 12 children in the UCLA Home TPN Clinic underwent ophthalmoscopic examination and visual-function testing. Direct inspection of the fundus showed a marked granularity of the retinal pigmented epithelium in some patients. About one-half of the children and one-third of the adults tested had at least one and usually two abnormalities in their electroretinogram. Determination of blood nutrients thought to affect vision revealed that zinc and vitamin E were within normal range. Vitamin A concentrations were above normal in 10 of 19 adults and selenium concentrations were below normal in 10 of 10 children and 17 of 21 adults tested. Linoleic and linolenic acid concentrations were low; plasma, platelet, and urine taurine concentrations were significantly lower than normal. Despite these diffuse nutrient abnormalities, only zinc and vitamin E concentrations correlated significantly with any index of visual function. 
Lymphomas in University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria. The authors reviewed 508 cases of lymphoma seen during a 16-year period in University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria. Hodgkin's disease was diagnosed in 95 (18.6%) patients, of which 45% had mixed cellularity type; 19%, lymphocyte predominance; 18%, nodular sclerosis; and 18%, lymphocyte depletion. The age distribution showed a single mode in the 11 to 25-year-old group. Male preponderance was more marked in children who made up 32% of the Hodgkin's disease patients. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma occurred in 413 cases, of which 296 (71.7%) were high-grade malignancies. Burkitt's tumor occurred in 211 (41.5%) patients, 95% of whom were children, and showed a male to female ratio of 1.7:1. Compared with previous findings in this hospital, Hodgkin's disease showed increased proportions of the lymphocyte predominant and nodular sclerosing types. However, the characteristics of Burkitt's lymphoma did not change appreciably in the last three decades. 
Influence of environmental temperature on the blood pressure of hypertensive patients in Montreal. To assess the influence of environmental temperature on blood pressure, we analyzed 42,813 readings of systolic and diastolic blood pressures in recumbent and upright positions in 2,000 hypertensive patients in our clinic in correlation to noon temperature and mean daily temperature in Montreal. The sample comprised 860 men and 1140 women with an average age of 55 years. Analysis of variance showed highly statistically significant negative correlations for all blood pressure values between different noon temperature, as well as mean daily temperature, groups. The greatest difference for systolic blood pressure was 7 mm Hg, and for diastolic blood pressure it was 3 mm Hg, within the -24 degrees C to 27 degrees C temperature range. The same relationship between blood pressure and different environmental temperatures was also seen when the blood pressure recordings were divided between temperature below 0 degree C and above 0 degree C, ie, within the winter or summer months. This environmental effect may have a clinically significant impact because thermosensitivity appears to be related to hypertension. 
Increased tryptase levels in suction-blister fluid from patients with urticaria. The levels of tryptase in the suction-blister fluid from patients with chronic urticaria, urticaria pigmentosa, cholinergic urticaria, urticarial dermographism, prurigo of unknown origin, eczema, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, and from healthy controls were studied. The blister fluid from controls contained up to 15 micrograms/l of tryptase, whereas that from patients with active urticaria contained greater than 50 micrograms/l. This study demonstrates that patients with urticaria have mast cells that readily release tryptase in both the lesional and non-lesional areas of skin. 
Nephrogenic rests in Wilms tumor patients with the Drash syndrome. The histological specimens from 12 patients with the Drash syndrome were identified from the National Wilms Tumor Study Group and reviewed for the presence of nephrogenic rests. Of 7 patients with the complete Drash syndrome 6 were evaluable for nephrogenic rests, including 5 (83%) who demonstrated intralobar nephrogenic rests. Of 5 (80%) partial Drash syndrome cases 4 (80%) were also intralobar nephrogenic rest positive. Neither group had perilobar nephrogenic rests identified. In a control population of Wilms tumor patients without the Drash syndrome only 39 of 274 (14%) with unilateral tumor had intralobar nephrogenic rests identified, whereas 26 of 92 (28%) bilateral cases had intralobar nephrogenic rests. There was a significantly higher rate of intralobar nephrogenic rests in complete and partial Drash syndrome cases than in the general Wilms tumor population (p less than 0.001). Wilms tumor patients with intralobar nephrogenic rests and the Drash syndrome present at a younger age and have a higher rate of bilaterality than rest negative Wilms tumor patients. The strong association of intralobar nephrogenic rests in the Drash syndrome approaches that found in the aniridia complex. However, in other syndromes associated with Wilms tumor, such as the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and hemihypertrophy, there is a high prevalence of perilobar nephrogenic rests. In view of the high incidence of intralobar nephrogenic rests in complete and partial Drash syndrome patients, it is probable that events leading to Wilms tumor in patients with the Drash syndrome occur at an early stage in nephrogenesis. 
Nonfunctioning parathyroid carcinoma. Parathyroid carcinoma is a rare clinical entity accounting for only 4 per cent of all cases of parathyroid neoplasia. Nonfunctioning parathyroid carcinoma is even rarer. Previously, virtually all patients with these lesions were treated for a nonspecific neck mass. However, in the present case, a preoperative diagnosis of nonfunctioning parathyroid carcinoma was made based on the technetium pertechnetate/thallium 201 subtraction scan. The authors report on the 14th case of nonfunctioning parathyroid carcinoma, a review of the literature, and guidelines for the preoperative and operative evaluation of neck masses suspected to be parathyroid carcinoma. 
Children with epilepsy: the effect of seizures, syndromes, and etiological factors on cognitive functioning. Overall, children with epilepsy have poorer concentration and mental processing and are less alert than age-matched controls. The relationship between cognitive functioning and epilepsy is complex, however, with widely differing degrees of intellectual impairment--ranging from minimal to severe and progressive--related to diverse types of epileptic seizures, syndromes, and etiological factors. Prolonged and frequently repeated seizures are typically associated with more severe effects on cognitive functioning, particularly if epilepsy is symptomatic, i.e., secondary to a demonstrable brain lesion. A combination of such factors may contribute to the mental deterioration seen in many children suffering from severe epilepsy. 
Phase I study of liposomal MTP-PE-activated autologous monocytes administered intraperitoneally to patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. We have conducted a phase I study with autologous monocytes activated ex vivo and administered intraperitoneally in nine patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. Blood monocytes were collected by leukapheresis and then purified by counterflow elutriation (up to 10(9) cells, with a purity of greater than 90%). Ex vivo activation was obtained by incubating these cells with 1 micrograms liposomal MTP-PE/10(6) monocytes for 18 hours in hydrophobic culture bags at 37 degrees C in 5% carbon dioxide humidified air. The activated monocytes were then infused in the peritoneal cavity once a week for 5 consecutive weeks through an implanted peritoneal infusion system, Port-A-Cath (Pharmacia Deltec, St Paul, MN), on an intrapatient dose-escalating schedule (10(7) to 10(9) monocytes). No severe adverse reactions occurred. Toxicity was mild, the chief acute reactions being fever (27%), chills (13%), and abdominal pain (25%). None of the side effects led to dose reduction. No consistent change in hemostatic function, liver function, or renal function was observed. Significant increases in granulocyte counts, neopterine, and acute phase reactants (fibrinogen, C-reactive protein) occurred in the peripheral blood. In vitro monocyte activation was demonstrated by the relapse of procoagulant activity and monokines (interleukin-1 [IL-1], IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF alpha]) in the supernatants of cultured monocytes. Evidence for in vivo monocyte activation was provided by the increase of these monokines in the peritoneal fluids. Kinetic studies with indium-111 (111In)-labeled activated autologous monocytes in five patients suggest that these infused monocytes may remain in the peritoneal cavity for up to 7 days. This locoregional immunotherapeutic approach seems to be encouraging in view of adjuvant therapeutic modality in ovarian cancer patients with minimal residual intraabdominal disease following second-look laparotomy. 
Cancer screening by primary care physicians. Can we explain the differences? BACKGROUND. Physicians perform cancer screening tests less often than recommended. METHODS. Forty primary care physicians were surveyed to assess their knowledge, attitudes, and experiences regarding cancer and cancer screening, and patients' medical records were reviewed to measure physicians' screening rates. RESULTS. Over 80% of physicians believed doctors should urge screening. On average, 23% of their patient visits were scheduled primarily for preventive care interventions. Screening performance scores expressed the percentage of compliance with the American Cancer Society's recommendations and demonstrated the low levels of compliance for six out of seven tests; however, there was substantial variance in performance among physicians. The best predictors of screening performance were (1) the percentage of visits scheduled primarily for prevention (mammography, and pelvic and breast examinations [P less than .05]); and (2) the number of medical journals read regularly (stool occult blood test [P less than .01], sigmoidoscopy [P less than .01], and Papanicolaou smear [P less than .02]). Also, female physicians performed more Papanicolaou smears (P less than .05) and scheduled more visits for preventive care (P less than .001). CONCLUSIONS. A small group of predictors explain large portions of the variance in cancer screening performance. 
Rehabilitation in rheumatic diseases. What's new. In the past decade, considerable change has occurred in concepts of rehabilitation in patients with rheumatic diseases. This includes approaches to functional assessment and outcome, new concepts in exercise, and new orthotics. 
Intermediate septal accessory pathways: electrocardiographic characteristics, electrophysiologic observations and their surgical implications Intermediate septal accessory pathways are located in close proximity to the atrioventricular (AV) node and His bundle, have unique features that distinguish them from typical anterior and posterior accessory pathways and have been associated with a high risk for unsuccessful pathway division and the production of complete AV block after surgery. Between July 1986 and May 1990, 4 of 70 patients (3 men and 1 woman; mean age 33 +/- 13 years) undergoing surgery for accessory pathway division were found to have an intermediate septal accessory pathway. The presenting arrhythmia was atrial fibrillation with rapid anterograde conduction over the accessory pathway in two patients and recurrent orthodromic reciprocating tachycardia in two patients. In all patients, the delta wave on the electrocardiogram (ECG) was inverted in lead V1, but two patterns of delta wave configuration were observed. In three patients (type 1 intermediate septal accessory pathway), the delta wave was upright in lead II, inverted in lead III and isoelectric in lead a VF; the transition from a negative to an upright delta wave occurred in lead V2. The fourth patient exhibited a different delta wave pattern (type 2 intermediate septal accessory pathway). The delta wave was upright in each of leads II, III and aVF; the transition from a negative to an upright delta wave occurred at lead V3. Intraoperative electrophysiologic study localized the atrial insertion of type 1 pathways to the midpoint of Koch's triangle close to the AV node. 
Septicaemia after colonoscopy in patients with cirrhosis. Two patients with ulcerative colitis and chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis, who developed Gram negative septicaemia after colonoscopy are described. These and two similar reported cases indicate that giving prophylactic antibiotics to patients with cirrhosis undergoing colonoscopy should be considered, particularly when the cirrhosis is advanced. 
The chemoreflex control of breathing and its measurement. The chemoreflex control of breathing is described in terms of a graphical model. The central chemoreflex, the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide mediated by the central chemoreceptors, is modelled as a straight-line relation between the ventilatory response and the arterial level of carbon dioxide. The peripheral chemoreflex, the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide and hypoxia mediated by the peripheral chemoreceptors, is broken into two relations. First, a straight-line relation between the ventilatory response and the arterial level of carbon dioxide whose slope (sensitivity) increases as the oxygen level varies from hyperoxic to hypoxic. Second, a rectangular hyperbolic relation between the ventilatory response and the arterial level of oxygen with ventilation increasing with increasing hypoxia. The three ventilatory response relations (one central and two peripheral) add to produce the total chemoreflex ventilatory response which forms the feedback part of the respiratory regulator. The forward part consists of the relation between the arterial level of carbon dioxide and ventilation when ventilation is controlled (the metabolic hyperbola). The forward and feedback parts of the respiratory regulator can be combined so as to predict resting ventilation and carbon dioxide levels under a number of circumstances. Methods of measurement of these chemoreflex ventilatory responses are also described so as to illustrate the physiological principles involved in the model. 
Are demented patients with Parkinson's disease accurately reflected in prevalence surveys? A survival analysis. We re-reviewed 257 patient records previously reviewed for an incidence study of dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD) to determine the frequency, date of death, and cause of death. We posited that if disease duration is shortened when dementia occurs, then dementia may be far more common than reflected in prevalence studies. There were 17 deaths among 65 demented patients and 28 deaths among 168 nondemented patients. When we matched a subset of the nondemented patients to the demented patients by age and disease duration distributions, the demented subjects had significantly more deaths (p less than 0.02), and survival among demented subjects was decreased (p less than 0.05). Dementia was a significant predictor of death in this sample. We conclude that dementia reduces survival in patients with PD. Incidence is a much better measure of dementia in PD than prevalence because shortened duration makes it less likely to detect dementia in prevalence surveys. 
Management of nasal fractures. Fracture of the nasal skeleton is a relatively common injury. Satisfactory treatment requires appropriate skills, diagnosis, and management. Some injuries require immediate attention; others are better treated in delayed fashion. Closed reduction provides satisfactory treatment in the majority of nasal fractures; however, open reduction often is a more appropriate choice. Injuries to the nasal septum should be recognized and given proper treatment. 
Monthly pulses of vincristine and prednisone prevent bone marrow and testicular relapse in low-risk childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a report of the CCG-161 study by the Childrens Cancer Study Group. On study CCG-161 of the Childrens Cancer Study Group (CCSG), 631 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) at low risk for relapse were randomized to receive monthly pulses of vincristine-prednisone (VCR-PDN ) during maintenance therapy in addition to standard therapy with mercaptopurine (6MP) and methotrexate (MTX), and either cranial irradiation during consolidation or intrathecal (IT) MTX every 3 months during maintenance. All patients received six doses of IT MTX during induction and consolidation. With a minimum follow-up time of 4.25 years, 76.7% receiving VCR-PDN were in continuous complete remission at 5 years, in contrast to 63.9% receiving GMP-MTX alone (P = .002). The difference in relapse-free survival was due primarily to bone marrow relapse (P = .0008), and in boys also to testicular relapse (P = .003). Among the nonirradiated patients, the 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) was 79.4% for patients randomized to the VCR-PDN pulses, in contrast to 61.2% for the patients randomized to receive 6MP-MTX alone (P = .0002). Among the irradiated patients, the DFS was not significantly different. Of the four combinations of maintenance and CNS therapy studied, the highest DFS was achieved with VCR-PDN pulses and maintenance IT MTX. 
Quality of life before and after orthotopic hepatic transplantation. Fifty-three nonalcoholic patients were evaluated prior to liver transplantation and again approximately 3 years after surgery using the Sickness Impact Profile and Social Behavior Adjustment Schedule. Test-retest scores reflected significant improvement across all health and psychosocial scales of the Sickness Impact Profile. On the Social Behavior Adjustment Schedule, significant improvement was observed on scales measuring disturbed behavior, social role performance, and burden. Comparisons between groups indicated that the liver transplant patients were still impaired on eight of the Sickness Impact Profile scales after transplant; however, the severity of disturbance was not considered to be clinically significant. No between-group differences were noted on the Social Behavior Adjustment Schedule. These results indicate that liver transplantation is associated with substantial improvement in life quality, although as a group, the patients undergoing this surgery do not recover to the level of functioning demonstrated by normal individuals. 
Chylothorax complicating right upper lobectomy. Chylothorax after pleuropulmonary surgery is unusual. We have described the case of a patient in whom this complication followed a right upper lobectomy. Early recognition is important to avoid potential morbidity and mortality. 
Safety and efficacy of repeat thrombolytic treatment after acute myocardial infarction. Thrombolytic treatment for acute myocardial infarction increases the risk of subsequent reocclusion of the infarct related artery. The efficacy and safety of repeat thrombolytic treatment was assessed in 31 patients treated with streptokinase (n = 13) or tissue plasminogen activator (n = 18) a median of five days (1-716) after the first infusion. The indication for readministration was prolonged chest pain with new ST segment elevation. Efficacy was assessed by infarct artery patency at angiography at a median of eight days after readministration in 22 patients and by non-invasive criteria in 23 patients (reperfusion was deemed to be likely if serum creatine kinase was not increased or reached a peak less than 12 hours after infarction). Angiography showed patency of 70% of the infarct arteries after readministration of streptokinase and of 75% after tissue plasminogen activator. The corresponding patency rates assessed noninvasively were 73% and 75%. Reinfarction was prevented in nine (29%) patients. Allergic reactions occurred in four of eight patients who received streptokinase twice (plasmacytosis and acute reversible renal failure developed in one patient). Two patients had major bleeding and two minor bleeding, all after tissue plasminogen activator, and one of them died of cerebral haemorrhage. Repeat thrombolytic treatment results in late patency rates similar to the rates after the initial administration. Allergic reactions were common in those treated twice with streptokinase. 
A prospective evaluation of hepatic resection for colorectal carcinoma metastases to the liver: Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group Protocol 6584. We report here the results of the first multiinstitutional prospective evaluation of patients considered to have potentially resectable hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma. One hundred fifty-six patients were enrolled from 15 institutions. Six patients were subsequently excluded. One hundred fifty patients underwent surgery and are evaluable for analysis (median follow-up time, 3.1 years; range, 4 months to 5.1 years). Curative resection could be performed on 46% of patients (69 of 150), noncurative resection on 12% (18 of 150), while 42% were found to be unresectable (63 of 150). Thirty-day surgical mortality and morbidity rates in patients with attempted resection were 2.7% and 13%, respectively. The curative resection group was observed to have an improved median survival (37.1 months) compared with the noncurative resection group (21.2 months) and the unresectable group (16.5 months) (P less than .01). Computed tomographic (CT) scan was a poor predictor for resectability, and age was not a contraindication to curative resection. Preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) values were also a poor predictor for resectability. However, the median CEA value 61 to 180 days postsurgery was significantly higher in unresectable patients compared with median CEA levels in noncuratively and curatively resected groups (P less than .01). Our results imply that curative resection leads to an increase in median survival. Noncurative resection provides no benefit to asymptomatic patients, since unresectable and noncurative resection groups have similar life expectancies. Longer follow-up will be needed to demonstrate the ultimate impact of curative resection on survival. 
Mitotane enhances cytotoxicity of chemotherapy in cell lines expressing a multidrug resistance gene (mdr-1/P-glycoprotein) which is also expressed by adrenocortical carcinomas. P-Glycoprotein (Pgp), product of the mdr-1 gene, is a 130- to 180-kDa plasma membrane phosphoglycoprotein which mediates multidrug resistance in cell culture by increasing efflux of the natural product chemotherapeutic agents. High levels of expression of mdr-1/Pgp are found in both the normal adrenal and adrenocortical cancers. By RNA in situ hybridization the expression in adrenocortical cancer is shown to be widely distributed. The present study demonstrates that decreased drug accumulation mediated by mdr-1/Pgp can be overcome by clinically achievable concentrations of mitotane (o,p'-DDD). The increase in drug accumulation with the addition of mitotane is due at least in part to a decrease in drug efflux and results in an increase in cytotoxicity when agents of the natural product class are used. This effect is observed in cells with a broad range of mdr-1/Pgp expression, including levels comparable to those found in most adrenocortical cancers. Similar increases in drug accumulation can be demonstrated in an unselected adrenocortical cancer cell line that expresses mdr-1/Pgp. The finding that multidrug resistance mediated by mdr-1/Pgp can be reversed by mitotane provides a rational basis for exploring the use of mitotane in combination with natural product chemotherapeutic agents in adrenocortical cancer. 
Establishment and characterization of a human carcinoid in nude mice and effect of various agents on tumor growth. The authors have established a long-term tissue culture cell line (BON) derived from a metastatic human carcinoid tumor of the pancreas. The cells have been in continuous passage for 46 months. Tissue culture cells produce tumors in a dose-dependent fashion after SC inoculation of cell suspensions in athymic nude mice. BON tumors, grown in nude mice, are histologically identical to the original tumor; they possess gastrin and somatostatin receptors, synthesize serotonin and chromogranin A, and have a doubling time of approximately 13 days. The antiproliferative effects of the long-acting somatostatin analogue, SMS 201-995 (300 micrograms/kg, t.i.d.), and 2% alpha-difluoromethylornithine on BON xenografts in nude mice were examined. Tumor size was significantly decreased by day 14 of treatment with either agent and at all points of analysis thereafter until the animals were killed (day 33). In addition, tumor weight, DNA, RNA, and protein contents were significantly decreased in treated mice compared with controls. Establishment of this human carcinoid xenograft line, BON, provides an excellent model to study further the biological behavior of carcinoid tumors and the in vivo effect of chemotherapeutic agents on tumor growth. 
Xenobiotic enzyme profiles and Parkinson's disease. Xenobiotic enzymic systems have been studied in Parkinson's disease. Platelet monoamine oxidase-B activity is increased by the use of phenylethylamine but decreased by the use of dopamine as substrate. Enzymes involved with sulfur oxidation and methylation are underactive. 
Emergency medical services and the pediatric patient. III: Resources of ambulatory care centers. Ambulatory care centers have emerged as a new health care resource in many communities. Little information is available about the services that these centers offer to pediatric patients. A national survey of 254 ambulatory care centers was undertaken to determine their characteristics, including the number of pediatric patients seen, staffing patterns, and pediatric equipment and supplies available. Most clinics were located in urban areas and were within 5 miles of a hospital. They were staffed primarily by physicians who were board certified in emergency medicine, internal medicine, or family medicine. Not all centers had registered nurses on duty and few used extended-role nurses or physicians's assistants. The centers saw an average of 18 patients younger than 18 years of age per day. Some ambulatory care centers received emergency medical service and private ambulance calls and encountered serious illness such as chest pain, seizures, and anaphylaxis; the majority, however, handled mainly minor injuries and illnesses. Although most had pediatric equipment and supplies, some did not have a complete set of pediatric resuscitation equipment even though they were part of the emergency system offering care to the pediatric population. 
Associated neurologic and ophthalmologic findings in congenital oculomotor nerve palsy. Unlike acquired oculomotor nerve palsy in childhood, the congenital form is usually considered to be an isolated disorder, not associated with other neurologic or systemic disease. In a series of 14 patients with this diagnosis, 10 had associated neurologic disorders. Clinical-neuroradiologic correlation identified the brainstem as the site of the lesion in some patients. The ipsilateral pupil was involved in 12 patients and was miotic with a trace or no reaction to light on the side of the palsy in 8 of the 12 patients. In two of these eight patients, the pupil was documented to be dilated and fixed in early infancy and subsequently became miotic at several months of age, concurrent with emergence of other signs of aberrant reinnervation. Pupillary miosis as a result of aberrant reinnervation appears to be much more frequent after congenital than acquired pupillary-involving oculomotor palsy. Four patients showed better visual acuity in the paretic eye, an unexpected finding. The paretic eye appeared to have a fixational advantage if the patient had nystagmus, presumably due to asymmetric dampening of the nystagmus. Significant anisometropia and astigmatic errors in the paretic eye were present in essentially all patients. 
Combined treatment of symptomatic gallbladder stones by extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE). Twenty-four patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones (12 radiolucent and 12 calcified) were treated by a combined approach of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and subsequent instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE). The patients received a mean of 1500 +/- 185 shock-wave discharges. The mean instillation time of MTBE was 13 +/- 4.2 hr. Treatment was tolerated without major adverse effects. Within a time period of three to five days eight of 12 patients with pure radiolucent stones and four of 12 with calcified stones became stone-free. After a median follow-up of five months (range: one week to 26 months), a total of 11 patients (92%) with radiolucent stones and of eight patients (66%) of those with calcified stones were free of stones, fragments, or debris. These clearance rates appear high when compared with reports on monotherapy with ESWL or MTBE, suggesting a positive effect of a combined approach in selected patients. Two patients exhibited recurrent stones after six and seven months, respectively. 
Transpalpebral extrusion of a silicone sponge exoplant. We report an unusual case of scleral buckle extrusion in a 63-year-old woman. A 5 mm silicone sponge exoplant eroded through Tenon's capsule, conjunctiva, and full-thickness upper eyelid, traversing the tarsal plate. 
The role of endoscopic papillotomy in ascending cholangitis. The role of endoscopic papillotomy in calculous cholangitis is unclear. A retrospective review of 41 patients admitted to hospital with calculous cholangitis was carried out. There were 30 women and 11 men and their ages ranged between 49 and 98 years (mean age 77). All patients presented with abdominal pain, tenderness, chills, and fever. Clinical jaundice was present in 95 per cent of the patients. Initial endoscopic papillotomy was successful in 17 of the 41 patients. In 24 patients cholangitis persisted or recurred and further therapy was carried out. Surgery was successful in controlling sepsis in ten of the 24 patients. Repeat endoscopic papillotomy was successful in four of 13 patients. Surgery was successful in one of nine patients who had failed repeat endoscopic papillotomy. Nasobiliary drainage and percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct after failed repeat endoscopic papillotomy was successful in only two of nine patients. Six patients died after failed repeat endoscopic papillotomy. We conclude that initial endoscopic papillotomy should be attempted in patients with calculous cholangitis. Surgical exploration of the common bile duct should then be carried out if initial endoscopic papillotomy fails to control cholangitis. 
Outcome of infants and children with dilated cardiomyopathy. A review of 81 infants and children with dilated, poorly contracting left ventricles without associated structural abnormalities was undertaken to identify risk factors for poor outcome, which could be used in selecting candidates for cardiac transplantation. Significant atrial or ventricular dysrhythmias, or both, were detected on presentation or during follow-up in 24 patients. Arrhythmias were present in only 8 of 51 survivors (16%) but were detected in 16 of 30 patients (53%) who died (p less than 0.05). Patients dying suddenly were even more likely to have had documented dysrhythmias (8 of 11, p less than 0.05). Left ventricular shortening fraction was similar in survivors and nonsurvivors (14.9 +/- 1.0% vs 15.3 +/- 1.7%). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure in 44 patients who had cardiac catheterization averaged 20.8 +/- 1.6 mm Hg. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly higher in patients who died than in those who survived (29.5 +/- 2.2 vs 15.0 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, p less than 0.001). Analysis of actuarial survival revealed that mortality was highest during the first 6 months after presentation (19% mortality). Survival declined more gradually thereafter and was 70% at 2 years, 64% at 5 years and 52% after 11.5 years. Age at initial presentation did not have any significant impact on survival. However, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure greater than 25 torr was associated with a significantly increased mortality rate (p less than 0.05). Early cardiac transplantation should be considered in patients with markedly elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure or complex atrial or ventricular arrhythmias. 
Upper abdominal cancer surgery in the very elderly. From January 1981 to December 1987, 59 major upper abdominal operations were performed on 57 patients aged 80 to 90 years at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Procedures for primary adenocarcinoma of the stomach, distal esophagus, pancreas, or hepatobiliary system were performed with curative intent or for palliation in 34 of 59 patients (58%) and bypass with limited or no resection in 13 of 59 patients (22%) patients. Emergency operations were performed in six (10%) patients for gastric bleeding, perforation, or outlet obstruction. Six (10%) patients underwent laparotomy for benign biliary obstruction (1), splenectomy for secondary thrombocytopenia (2), or gastrectomy for sarcoma (2) or lymphoma (1). Hospital mortality was 15% overall and 9% for major resections, 15% for bypass, and 67% for emergency procedures. Major complications occurred in 10 (20%) elective procedures. Mortality was associated with respiratory or cardiac failure while complications most commonly included arrhythmias and wound infection. Mean postoperative hospitalization was 18 days overall and 45 patients (76%) were discharged home. Median survival following major resection was 17.5 months but less than 2 months after bypass procedures. A protocol of pre-operative evaluation, intra-operative hemodynamic monitoring and postoperative intensive care has been formalized for use in elderly or poor-risk patients. 
Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Contrasting results have been reported regarding the prevalence of hypertension in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), showing a slightly higher or normal percentage of IDDM patients with elevated blood pressure levels than in the general population. Most of the cross-sectional and prospective studies on the prevalence of hypertension in IDDM show an association between microalbuminuria and elevated blood pressure levels. However, it is not clear whether hypertension is simply secondary to kidney damage or whether hypertension occurs with or even before the development of impaired kidney function. Patients with IDDM have a higher exchangeable body Na+ pool. Na+ retention in IDDM is accounted for by several metabolic and hormonal abnormalities such as hyperglycemia, hyperketonemia, hyperinsulinemia, altered secretion, and resistance to atrial natriuretic peptide. High blood pressure appears to be dependent, at least at some phase, on expansion of extracellular fluid volume as a consequence of defects in the renal secretion of Na+ and water. On the other hand, a tendency toward Na+ retention characterizes all patients with IDDM, whereas hypertension develops only in a subgroup of diabetic patients. One possible explanation for these findings is that a genetic predisposition plays a role in creating susceptibility to hypertension and perhaps to diabetic nephropathy independent of diabetes, even if Na+ retention can further deteriorate this susceptibility to hypertension. With regard to this issue, it has recently been suggested that the risk of kidney disease in patients with IDDM is associated with a genetic predisposition to hypertension. Furthermore, diabetic nephropathy occurs in familial clusters, because diabetic siblings of nephropathic diabetic patients show a higher frequency of diabetic nephropathy than the diabetic siblings of nonnephropathic diabetic patients. One of the possible genetic markers that could be useful to identify the diabetic patients with susceptibility to hypertension and diabetic nephropathy is the Na+(-)Li+ countertransport activity in erythrocytes. 
Sonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Acute appendicitis can be a diagnostic dilemma. The classic triad of leukocytosis, pain at McBurney's point and a history compatible with appendicitis has a diagnostic accuracy rate of only 80 percent. Ultrasonography, combined with this triad, can improve the diagnostic accuracy, decreasing the negative laparotomy rate from 20 percent to less than 10 percent. 
Source of tubercle bacilli in cervical lymph nodes: a prospective study. A prospective study searching for associated mycobacterial infection of the upper aerodigestive tract in patients with cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis (TBLN) was carried out. One hundred and thirteen patients with a clinical suspicion of cervical TBLN were included. All patients had a physical examination of the upper aerodigestive tract. Routine endoscopy and biopsy of the nasopharynx were performed. All of them had surgery to the cervical lymph node. Seventy-five patients had histologically confirmed cervical TBLN. Culture of the lymph node specimen showed Mycobacterium tuberculosis in 68 (90 per cent). In 45 (60 per cent) patients with cervical TBLN the primary foci of infection could not be found. Twenty-nine (39 per cent) had radiographic evidence of active or healed pulmonary tuberculosis. Sputum culture from two patients showed Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Five patients (six per cent) had tuberculous nasopharyngitis. In one of them (one per cent) the tuberculous nasopharyngitis was primary as no other evidence of mycobacterial infection was found. In the present study, mycobacterial infection of other parts of the upper aerodigestive tract was not found. 
Down-regulation of messenger ribonucleic acid and protein levels for estrogen receptors by phorbol ester and calcium in MCF-7 cells. Treatment of MCF-7 cells, a human mammary carcinoma cell line, with phorbol ester [12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)] or calcium ionophore (A23187) was associated with striking effects on levels of estrogen receptor (ER) mRNA, specific binding of 17 beta-[3H]estradiol [( 3H]E2), and immunoreactive ER. TPA (10(-7) M) caused a time-dependent reduction of ER mRNA which was below the level of detection after 9 h. Similar effects of TPA appeared at levels of specific binding of [3H]E2 as well as immunoreactive ER. In contrast, TPA induced an increase in mRNA for beta-actin. Incubation of MCF-7 cells with increasing concentrations of TPA (10(-11)-10(-7) M) was associated with biphasic effects on ER mRNA and proteins. Levels of immunoreactive progesterone receptors (PR) were induced by E2 (10(-9) M) in a time-dependent manner. In the presence of TPA (10(-7) M), where ER levels were suppressed, no induction of PR was observed. Removal of TPA (10(-7) M) after 10 h (ER mRNA) or 22 h (ER proteins) of treatment was associated with a continued suppression of both mRNA and protein levels during the entire incubation period (48 h). Treatment with A23187 (2 x 10(-7) M) also caused a time-dependent down-regulation of levels of ER mRNA and proteins. These effects occurred somewhat more slowly than those of TPA. Levels of beta-actin mRNA were not changed by this treatment. These results indicate that changes in estrogen sensitivity are mediated by calcium-dependent protein kinases in human mammary carcinoma MCF-7 cells. 
Examination of cardiorespiratory changes during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Comparison of monitoring of arterial oxygen saturation, arterial pressure and the electrocardiogram. Critical events including hypoxaemia, arrhythmias and myocardial ischaemia may occur more frequently during endoscopic procedures than during anaesthesia. A study was undertaken to assess the cardiovascular changes and to evaluate suitable monitoring techniques to detect critical events during sedation and endoscopy. Twenty patients scheduled to undergo a prolonged endoscopic procedure which required deep sedation were studied. Continuous recordings of electrocardiogram, heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation were made and arterial pressure was recorded at one-minute intervals. The study commenced immediately before administration of sedatives, continued for the duration of the examination and for one hour following the examination. Oxygen saturation decreased in all patients during the examination to a mean of 82.9% (SD 11.9), and remained below baseline for the duration of the examination and into the recovery period. Statistically significant increases and reductions of systolic arterial pressure and rate-pressure product were found during the procedures compared with baseline values recorded before administration of sedatives. Sixteen of the 20 patients developed tachycardia during the examination. Ten patients developed ectopic foci which were supraventricular, ventricular or both in origin. Electrocardiogram changes resolved during the recovery period. Myocardial ischaemia was assessed by S-T segment depression and a significant correlation was found between S-T segment depression and hypoxaemia, although the magnitude of the S-T depression was small and may not have been detected clinically. No correlation was found between S-T segment depression and arterial pressure, heart rate or rate-pressure product. 
Pathogenesis of pulmonary edema during interleukin-2 therapy: correlation of chest radiographic and clinical findings in 54 patients. The pathogenesis of pulmonary edema that occurs during interleukin-2 therapy has often been attributed to an increase in pulmonary capillary permeability. However, renal insufficiency, fluid overload, and hypotension also develop in many patients. These manifestations of systemic toxicity may contribute to the development of pulmonary edema during therapy. Understanding the cause of pulmonary edema during interleukin-2 therapy could directly affect patients' care. Therefore, we reviewed the chest radiographs and clinical course of 54 patients who received high-dose interleukin-2 therapy and lymphokine-activated killer cells for advanced carcinoma. The type, frequency, and course over time of pulmonary abnormalities were recorded and correlated with clinical measures of renal function, fluid status, and blood pressure. Focal or diffuse parenchymal lung opacities were found on radiographs in 43 (80%) of 54 patients. Findings of interstitial pulmonary edema were most common, occurring in 76% of patients. Weight gain, hypotension, and elevation of the serum creatinine level were not associated statistically with interstitial edema. Diffuse air-space disease developed in 20% of patients. Focal consolidation, which was associated with positive central venous catheter cultures (p less than .03), developed in 28% of patients. Pleural effusion occurred in 48% of patients and was associated with all types of parenchymal disease. These data suggest that the frequent development of pulmonary edema during interleukin-2 therapy is not due to renal insufficiency, fluid overload, or hypotension, but is more likely the result of an interleukin-2-related increase in pulmonary capillary permeability. 
Identification of the viral genes responsible for growth of strains of reovirus in cultured mouse heart cells. Viral growth in specific tissue is usually required in order to lead to pathology. Two reovirus isolates (type 1 Lang and type 3 Dearing) differ in their capacity to grow in cultured mouse heart cells. The mammalian reoviruses contain a genome of 10 double-stranded RNA gene segments. By the use of 37 reassortant viruses (consisting of viruses with different combinations of genes derived from the two parents), difference in capacity of different strains to grow in heart cells was mapped to three different genes, all of which encode viral core proteins: the M1 gene (P less than 0.000044); the L1 gene (P = 0.00094); and the L3 gene (P = 0.019). Using the same set of reassortant viruses, the L1 (P = 0.00015) and L3 (P = 0.0065) genes were involved in differences of the ability of viral strains to grow in mouse L cells (fibroblasts), but the M1 gene (P = 0.12) was not. These findings suggest that the M1 gene plays an important and specific role in determining the relative capacity of certain viral strains to grow in the heart. Thus, we have identified viral genes responsible for differing growth capacity in heart muscle cells in culture. These findings provide a novel system for studies of viral myocarditis at a molecular genetic level. 
Iliopectineal bursitis: an unusual cause of iliofemoral vein compression. The iliopectineal bursa is the largest bursa in the region of the hip joint. Enlargement of the bursa occurs in several conditions and may be manifested by groin pain, a pelvic or inguinal mass, or lower extremity edema due to compression of the external iliac or common femoral vein. A case of lower extremity edema secondary to external iliac/common femoral vein compression caused by an enlarged iliopectineal bursa is presented. The pathophysiology, methods of diagnosis, and forms of therapy are discussed. 
Insulin and cardiovascular disease. Paris Prospective Study. The Paris Prospective Study is a long-term investigation of coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors in a large population of working men. The baseline cohort included 7028 men, 6093 who had a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test with measurement of plasma insulin and glucose levels (0 and 2 h) and 125 who were known non-insulin-treated diabetic patients. After a mean follow-up of 11 yr, 126 deaths ascribed to CHD were reported. Major independent predictors of CHD death were blood pressure, smoking, plasma cholesterol level, and fasting and 2-h postload plasma insulin level. Impairment of glucose tolerance, including overt diabetes, did not rank as an independent predictor when other baseline variables were accounted for. In the subset of the baseline cohort who presented with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes (n = 943), 26 died from CHD during the follow-up. The strongest independent predictor of subsequent CHD death in this subsample with abnormal glucose tolerance was plasma triglyceride level. In view of the accumulating evidence that hyperinsulinemia and hypertriglyceridemia generally occur in the same type of subjects, in relation to insulin resistance and central obesity, the epidemiological findings of the Paris Prospective Study and of other investigations support the hypothesis that a constellation of mild metabolic abnormalities may play a deleterious role with regard to cardiovascular disease risk. 
Resectoscopic myomectomy. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate safety and efficacy of resectoscopic myomectomy for control of menorrhagia, dysmenorrhea, and/or reproductive wastage. DESIGN: Retrospective consecutive patient follow-up. SETTING: Private practice, outpatient, hospital. PATIENTS: All patients (92) having resectoscopic myomectomy between September 1, 1986 and December 31, 1989. INTERVENTIONS: Resectoscopic myomectomy with or without concomitant procedures such as endometrial ablation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Assessment of dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, and reproductive outcome after surgery. RESULTS: Elimination of dysmenorrhea in 24 of 28, absence of menorrhagia in 65 of 80, and pregnancy in 10 of 13 with two abortions in a total of 11 gestations. One patient was admitted and treated with one unit of autologous blood and mechanical tamponade with an intrauterine balloon. Three cases of uterine perforation had no sequelae. One patient had mild endometritis responding to outpatient antibiotics. Two cases of leiomyosarcoma were diagnosed histologically and accounted for two of the three hysterectomies noted during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Resectoscopic myomectomy is a safe, effective, and relatively simple outpatient surgical procedure. 
Abundant expression of EBER1 small nuclear RNA in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. A morphologically distinctive target for detection of Epstein-Barr virus in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded carcinoma specimens. The highly restricted expression of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome in malignancy has limited the use of EBV detection methods applicable to formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded carcinoma specimens. In EBV-transformed lymphocytes very short nonprotein coding EBV transcripts (EBERs) are expressed in much higher abundance (10(7) copies per cell) than other EBV latency transcripts. Using a 3H riboprobe, the authors demonstrated EBER1 expression in NASOPHARYNGEAL CARCINOMAS (NPCs) as well as in parotid salivary gland. Recognition of EBER1 expression was facilitated by the intensity of hybridization and its characteristic morphology (nuclear with nucleolar sparing). EBER1 expression was not demonstrated in other epithelial malignancies arising from mucosal surfaces (oropharynx, uterine cervix) from which EBV shedding has been detected. Repeat study of the NPC specimens with digoxigenin-labeled probe yielded hybridization signal with subcellular morphologic detail and without background in a 12-hour procedure. Thus the EBER1 transcript is an appropriate target for in situ hybridization detection of EBV in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded carcinoma specimens. 
Disorders of hypopigmentation in children. The most common disorders of hypopigmentation in children are pityriasis alba, vitiligo, nevus depigmentosus, and tinea versicolor. Pityriasis alba usually presents as ill defined, scaly patches of hypomelanosis on the cheeks of children with an atopic diathesis. The face is also a favored site for vitiligo, but the distribution is periorificial, and the pigment loss is complete because of a destruction of melanocytes. Vitiligo is an acquired, progressive disorder in contrast to nevus depigmentosus, which is a stable, congenital leukoderma. The localized form of nevus depigmentosus must be distinguished from an ash leaf spot, the earliest cutaneous manifestation of tuberous sclerosis, whereas the systematized form may be confused with hypomelanosis of Ito, another neurocutaneous disorder. The lesions of tinea versicolor favor the upper trunk of adolescents, and potassium hydroxide examination of the associated scale reveals hyphal and yeast forms of P. orbiculare. Any inflammatory process in the skin such as dermatitis or psoriasis can resolve with areas of hypopigmentation. 
Effect of hemostatic agents in canine gastric serosal blood vessels. The efficacy of various sclerotherapeutic agents in the control of acute bleeding, via subserosal injection, was assessed in 10 dogs. Blood flow rate (BFR) from severed gastric serosal vessels (diameter, 1.6 to 2.2 mm) was measured for 3 min (ml/min) for a control group and the agent used. The agents tested were 5 ml of normal saline (NS), 5 ml of 3% hypertonic saline (HS), 5 ml of 1:10,000 epinephrine in NS, 5 ml of 1:10,000 epinephrine/HS, 5 ml of 1:20,000 epinephrine/HS, 2 ml of old thrombin "cocktail" (thrombin, cephapirin + 1% tetradecyl), and 2 ml of fresh thrombin cocktail (total seven). One agent was tested per dog; there were one to two dogs in each subgroup. All of the agents showed significant reduction in BFR (except old thrombin) when compared with BFR of control vessels. The reduction ranged from 30% to more than 75% after 1:10 epinephrine/HS. Complete hemostasis was achieved in up to 47% of vessels using 1:20 epinephrine/HS. Overall, the epinephrine solutions achieved the best results. No systemic effects were observed with the use of any of the agents. Histological studies showed that epinephrine caused mild tissue damage, whereas the cocktail caused significant tissue necrosis. This serosal vessel model permits comparison of the effectiveness of each agent; however, clinical extrapolation to mucosal vessels in a patient and the long-term histological changes are not known. 
Myasthenia gravis in childhood and infancy. Usefulness of electrophysiologic studies. The diagnostic yield of electrodiagnostic tests was evaluated in 21 children with myasthenia gravis (MG). Twelve children had juvenile autoimmune MG, four had neonatal MG, four had congenital MG, and one had MG with arthrogryposis. Repetitive stimulation (RS) of the ulnar nerve was performed in every patient, sometimes with sensitization by ischemia. When the RS test was negative, the spinal or facial nerve was tested. In the group with neonatal MG, the RS test disclosed a significant decrement in 75% of the patients. Among the 17 other children, the overall percentage of positive RS tests was 88%. An ulnar nerve RS test was positive in 41% of them. Sensitization of ulnar nerve RS by ischemia improved the diagnostic yield to 66%. A spinal or facial nerve RS test was positive in seven of 10 patients. These results confirmed the diagnostic value of RS, with sensitization by ischemia, when necessary, in childhood MG whenever a careful technique is provided. 
A low dose bacillus Calmette-Guerin regimen in superficial bladder cancer therapy: is it effective? Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) intravesical therapy represents a major advance in the treatment of superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. To date, however, the optimal treatment schedule must be defined and the toxicity related to the treatment is significant. The preliminary results of a randomized ongoing study performed to evaluate the effectiveness and relative toxicity of a low dose (75 mg.) BCG regimen in the treatment of superficial bladder cancer therapy are reported. A total of 126 patients (70 for prophylaxis of recurrent stages Ta and T1 papillary tumors and 56 for treatment of carcinoma in situ or with microinfiltration of the subepithelial connective tissue) underwent a 6-week course of 75 mg. BCG (Pasteur vaccine). An additional course was given in patients who failed to respond to the induction course. Maintenance therapy was administered in complete responders monthly for 1 year and then quarterly for 1 year. The prophylaxis group (transurethral resection plus BCG) was randomized versus transurethral resection alone (63 patients, control group). A complete response in the prophylaxis, control and therapy groups was observed in 74, 17 and 57% of the patients, respectively, while 4, 17 and 12.5%, respectively, experienced tumor progression. The additional course of therapy increased the response rate. On the contrary, previous unsuccessful intravesical chemotherapy did not affect the response rate. In regard to toxicity, irritative disturbances (27%) and fever (17%) appeared to be significantly decreased compared with the rates reported in the literature. No major complications were experienced. In conclusion, a low dose (75 mg.) Pasteur strain BCG regimen was effective as prophylaxis against recurrent superficial papillary tumors and as treatment of carcinoma in situ or with microinfiltration of the subepithelial connective tissue. Toxicity related to the treatment appeared to be low. 
Issues, goals, and guidelines in selecting first-line drug therapy for hypertension. Modern antihypertensive therapy is enriched by an explosion in drug development that makes available increasingly specific agents whose effects have advanced our understanding of pressor mechanisms. This and other research into hypertensive mechanisms has defined the clinical, pharmacological, and endocrinologic heterogeneity of human hypertension. The sum of these developments is a greatly enhanced ability to identify curable and definable causes of hypertension and to pathophysiologically stratify the remaining cases of essential hypertension. Modern treatment can be much more specific than before. When long-term drug therapy is indicated, the regimen is more likely to achieve a primary goal for each patient, that is, the fewest possible drugs in the smallest amount and in lowest frequency. Two clinically quantifiable mechanisms for long-term arteriolar vasoconstriction can be identified within the spectrum of human hypertension. The first, renin-mediated vasoconstriction, is directly related to the plasma renin level. The second, sodium-volume-related vasoconstriction, is marked by a reciprocally subnormal renin level and involves abnormal sodium retention and calcium transport. A baseline renin-sodium profile can identify the pressure of one of these two forms of vasoconstriction and therefore is the key for the diagnosis of the two curable disorders that fully express one of the two pressor mechanisms--renovascular hypertension and primary aldosteronism. Renovascular hypertension, more common than once thought, is often cured by angioplasty. It is important to diagnose these curable forms before beginning long-term drug therapy. The renin-sodium profile, used in conjunction with serum potassium and creatinine measurements, is valuable not only in screening patients for curable forms, but also for stratifying the remainder according to the pathophysiological vasoconstrictor mechanism that underlies the hypertension. Converting enzyme inhibitors or beta-blockers are, by themselves, often effective in correcting the hypertension of high- or medium-renin patients, whereas calcium antagonists, diuretic agents, or alpha-blockers alone are most effective against the low-renin form of vasoconstriction. In the large midzone of renin values, if monotherapy fails, a rational basis for combined antirenin-antisodium volume therapies can be developed. 
Animal models of fulminant hepatic failure. The six requirements for a satisfactory animal model of fulminant hepatic failure are reversibility, reproducibility, death from liver failure, a therapeutic window, a large animal model, and minimal hazard to personnel. Different models may be required to evaluate the various types of liver failure seen in man. The available models include surgical anheptic and devascularization procedures, as well as hepatotoxic drug administration using agents such as carbon tetrachloride, acetaminophen, or galactosamine. Currently combined surgical and drug models appear to provide the best model but the search for the ideal models continues. 
Epipalatus: a rare intraoral teratoma. A wide range of discrete head and neck tumors are developmental, including those termed choristoma, hamartoma, dermoid cysts, teratoid tumors, and true teratomas. In classifying various teratomas, consideration is given to the embryonal layers represented within the substance of the tumor and to their level of organizational complexity. By definition, a hamartoma is a tissue mass, present at or near the time of birth, that is benign and native to the site of origin. Growth capacity of a hamartomatous process parallels that of the host organism. A choristoma, on the other hand, is a mass of tissue that is foreign to the site of discovery and is thought to result from growth to displaced primordial tissue that is histologically normal for that tissue. 
Magnetic resonance imaging for detecting and treatment monitoring of orthotopic murine bladder tumor implants. We assessed the feasibility of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detection and treatment monitoring of early stage orthotopic murine bladder (MBT-2) tumor implants. Thirty mice were scheduled for imaging at six, 14, 18 and 21 days after tumor implantation. Using a volume imaging coil, MRI demonstrated very early orthotopic tumors, the detection of which would otherwise have been impossible by clinical signs only. Sequential accurate assessment of tumor size was achieved by inflation of the bladders with a fixed volume of Gadolinium-DTPA contrast. The presence of established MBT-2 intravesical tumors was confirmed by gross pathology and light microscopy of the corresponding whole mount bladder sections. Histological examination of the corresponding tumor specimens revealed the presence of transitional cell bladder carcinoma which correlated very well with the topography and depth of tumor involvement as indicated on MRI. The The mice tolerated repeated MR imaging well. Early tumors at day 14 were detectable on MRI (with serial tumor growth to day 21), with no clinical signs of disease. In a subsequent study, response to intravesical tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) immunotherapy was monitored with serial MRI. The serial MR images from six tumor-bearing mice (three controls and three TNF-alpha treated) have been selected to illustrate the consistent findings of this study. Sequential MRI scans of TNF-alpha treated mice revealed retardation of tumor growth that correlated well with the corresponding histologic examination. The orthotopic tumor and MRI model described is ideal for preclinical evaluation of new potential intravesical chemotherapy and immunotherapy agents. 
Studies on the cellular origin of neurothekeoma: clinical, light microscopic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural observations. The clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical features of 11 cases of neurothekeoma are reported. One case was examined by electron microscopy. The mean age of the patients was 27.1 years; the study comprised eight female and three male patients. Most lesions were nondescript papules and located on the upper part of the body, seven cases of neurothekeoma on the head. Eight cases were classified as cellular neurothekeoma on the basis of a striking fascicular pattern and three cases as myxomatous neurothekeoma because of prominent myxoid stromal change. All cellular neurothekeomas failed to express S-100 protein, whereas the three myxomatous types were strongly positive for this marker. Other than vimentin, there was no significant immunoreactivity with other immunohistochemical markers. Ultrastructural study of one case of cellular neurothekeoma was inconclusive for cell type although a perineurial origin could not be excluded. On the basis of these results, we conclude that cellular neurothekeoma differs from myxomatous neurothekeoma not only by clinical and histologic findings but also by immunoreactivity with S-100 protein. These findings also suggest the existence of two distinct subtypes of neurothekeoma and possible origin of the two variants of neurothekeoma from different cell types or at least variation in phenotypic expression of a common cell type. On the other hand, it cannot be excluded that these two variants are different stages in the natural history of neurothekeoma. 
Differences in prostaglandin metabolism in cultured aortic and pulmonary arterial endothelial cells exposed to acute and chronic hypoxia. In vivo, a marked difference in blood oxygen tension exists between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. Responses of vascular endothelial cells from these vessels to changes in ambient oxygen might be influenced by the oxygen tension to which they are continuously exposed in vivo or by their anatomic site. To explore this hypothesis, we initially studied the production of the cyclooxygenase metabolites prostacyclin and thromboxane in bovine aortic and main pulmonary arterial endothelial cells grown in 21% O2 and exposed to different degrees of acute hypoxia over a wide range of times. We found that short-term hypoxia (3% or 0% O2) rapidly and transiently activates the cyclooxygenase pathway in both cell types, with a more rapid response in bovine aortic endothelial cells. To determine whether culture in an oxygen tension similar to that to which main pulmonary arterial endothelial cells are exposed in vivo alters this response, we evaluated these cyclooxygenase metabolites in bovine aortic and main pulmonary arterial endothelial cells cultured long-term in 3% O2, both at baseline and after exposure to acute anoxia (0% O2). In both cell types, we found a decrease in prostacyclin and thromboxane synthesis at baseline and evidence of an increase in the Vmax of thromboxane synthetase following stimulation with exogenous arachidonic acid. In chronically hypoxic cells exposed to acute anoxia, there were marked differences in enzyme activity compared with that in endothelial cells maintained in 21% O2 with differences depending on the origin of the endothelial cells. In bovine aortic endothelial cells, production of neither cyclooxygenase metabolite increased; in bovine main pulmonary arterial endothelial cells, only thromboxane production increased, suggesting isolated activation of the cyclooxygenase-thromboxane synthetase pathway. These studies demonstrate that acute and chronic hypoxia have profound effects on endothelial cell cyclooxygenase metabolism and that these effects depend on the duration and degree of the hypoxic exposure and the vascular bed from which the endothelial cells are derived. 
Lupron retards proliferation of ovarian epithelial tumor cells cultured in serum-free medium. Some patients with recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer respond favorably to treatment with GnRH agonists. This effect was proposed to be mediated by suppression of pituitary gonadotropin release. The present in vitro study investigated effects of human gonadotropin (Pergonal LH/FSH, 1:1) and Lupron, a GnRH agonist, on proliferation of an ovarian cancer cell line, 2774, which is estrogen receptor negative and grows well in serum-free, defined medium. Pergonal, 10 IU/mL or 30 IU/mL, did not enhance cell proliferation, which argues against stabilization of ovarian tumors in vivo due to decreased serum gonadotropin. Lupron, 1.4 micrograms/mL and 140 micrograms/mL, retarded cell division by day 6-8 of culture, in a dose-dependent manner. Flow cytometric cell cycle phase DNA analysis demonstrated Lupron caused a reversible 5-6% increase in the portion of cells in rest phase, G0/G1, compared to controls during log growth, and a corresponding decrease in the portion of cells in DNA synthesis, S phase. However, long-term culture, 3 weeks, with Lupron failed to arrest cells in G0/G1, and experimental cultures plateaued at cell number similar to control cultures. We conclude Lupron's effect on ovarian cancer cell proliferation is independent of gonadotropin and steroid, involves a cell cycle regulatory event, and duration of benefit observed in vivo for some patients may be related to total tumor volume at the time of treatment. 
Mechanism of analgesia induced by hypnosis and acupuncture: is there a difference? Hypnosis and acupuncture can alleviate experimentally induced pain but the mechanism of analgesia remains unclear for both techniques. Experimental pain was induced by cold pressor test (CPT) in 8 male volunteers. Analgesic effect of hypnosis (HA) and acupuncture (AA) was assessed before and after double-blind administration of placebo or naloxone, in a prospective, cross-over study. We found that pain intensity was significantly lower with HA as compared with AA, both with naloxone (P less than 0.001) and placebo (P less than 0.001). Within HA or AA groups, pain scores did not differ significantly when naloxone or placebo was administered. During AA, however, pain scores were similar to control values when naloxone was given (P = 0.05) but decreased significantly with placebo (P less than 0.002). Analog scales for pain intensity and pain relief showed a good correlation (r = 0.94). Plasma levels of beta-endorphins did not change significantly in any combination. Heart rate, peripheral arterial blood pressure and skin conductance were very insensitive indices to assess pain intensity or relief, as well as intensity of acupuncture stimulation or depth of hypnotic trance. We conclude: (1) HA and AA can significantly reduce pain from CPT, and HA is more effective than AA: (2) HA and AA are not primarily mediated by the opiate endorphin system; and (3) plasmatic levels of beta-endorphins are not significantly affected by either HA or AA nor by naloxone or placebo administration. 
Mechanisms of asphyxial brain damage, and possible pharmacologic interventions, in the fetus. An examination of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of neuronal cell damage may lead to the design of pharmacologic interventions during presumed or actual fetal asphyxia. Hypoxia-ischemia in its severest form results in insufficient adenosine 5'-triphosphate production. The most important effect of this is failure of adenosine 5'-triphosphate-dependent membrane functions, which maintain ionic homeostasis, that is, ionic pumping. There is K+ efflux and Na+ influx across the cell membrane, depolarization of the cell membrane, opening of the voltage-dependent calcium channels, and entrance of Ca++ into the cell. Cytosolic Ca++ is also increased by Ca++ efflux from the mitochondria and the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Ca++ is a toxin in high cytosolic concentrations; it activates phospholipases A and C, which cause membrane breakdown and release of free fatty acids, including arachidonic acid. The membrane is damaged, lysis occurs, and the neuron dies. High cytosolic Ca++ also causes release of excitatory amino acids (especially glutamate), which overwhelm the suppressant neurotransmitters, causing seizures, increased metabolism, and aggravation of the insufficient adenosine 5'-triphosphate availability. Thromboxane A2 is generated from arachidonic acid, increasing smooth muscle tone and thereby worsening the ischemia. Cyclooxygenase activity also results in formation of oxygen-free radicals that contribute to cell membrane damage, lysis, and death. Possibilities for pharmacologic interventions include (1) calcium channel blockers and antagonists, (2) excitatory neurotransmitter blockers, (3) oxygen-free radical scavengers (e.g., superoxide dismutase), (4) cyclooxygenase or prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors, and (5) seizure suppressants (e.g., phenobarbital). Some of these treatments have been shown experimentally to limit neuronal death in the adult and fetus, and after more investigative work they may be applicable to clinical practice. 
The expression of CD22 (Leu 14) and CD11c (LeuM5) in chronic lymphoproliferative disorders using two-color flow cytometric analysis. The monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) CD22 and CD11c recognize B-lymphocyte- and monocyte-associated antigens, respectively. Reports indicate that when these two MoAbs co-express, they represent a unique marker for hairy cell leukemia (HCL) although neither is specific for that disease. The authors evaluated the expression and diagnostic utility of CD22 and CD11C in specimens from 26 normal subjects, 29 patients, with various nonlymphoproliferative disorders (NLPDs), and 75 patients with different types of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (CLDs) using two-color flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes. Lymphocytes co-expressed CD22 and CD11c in less than or equal to 3% of the normal subjects and in less than or equal to 6% of the patients with NLPDs. These markers were expressed in greater than 10% of the lymphocytes of 46% (32/69) of the patients with B-cell CLDs: B-cell chronic-lymphocytic leukemia, 9/41; B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 8/14; HCL, 11/11; B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (NOS), 1/2; and B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia, 1/1. None (0/6) of the lymphocytes of patients with T-cell CLDs expressed greater than 10% CD22-positive (CD22+) or CD11c-positive (CD11c+) cells. The HCL cases demonstrated a unique CD22+CD11c+ fluorescence histogram pattern, distinct from other lymphoproliferative disorders, that was characterized by uniformly intense CD11c and CD22 fluorescence. Differences in the expression of the CD22+CD11C- and CD22+CD11C+ phenotypes between diagnostic groups were found, most notable was a paucity of CD22+CD11c+ cells in lymphocytes of patients with HCL. CD22 also had more variable expression than CD19 and HLA-DR in the cases of B-cell CLD. This study demonstrates that the CD22+CD11c+ phenotype is not unique to HCL but is a consistent feature of that disorder and that the immunofluorescence pattern of co-expression in HCL is diagnostically useful. 
Benign recurrence of a pilocytic cerebellar astrocytoma 36 years after radical removal: case report. A benign recurrence of a cerebellar juvenile astrocytoma was found in a 52-year-old woman 36 years after the initial radical removal, which was performed when she was 16 years of age. To our knowledge, this is the third detailed case report of the late benign recurrence of cerebellar astrocytoma after total removal. The problem of recurrence of cerebellar astrocytoma is reviewed. 
Recurrent mild abruptio placentae occurring immediately after repeated electroconvulsive therapy in pregnancy. We present a case in which electroconvulsive therapy was performed repeatedly in pregnancy because of severe depression with psychotic features and failure of chemical treatment. Each electroconvulsive treatment was immediately followed by uterine contractions and active uterine bleeding, possibly representing recurrent abruptio placentae occurring in association with the treatment. Transient acute episodes of maternal hypertension between 180/90 and 190/100 mm Hg, documented within minutes after application of each electroconvulsive treatment, might explain the abruptio placentae manifested by active uterine bleeding and uterine hyperstimulation. 
Long-latency neurodegenerative disease in the western Pacific. The western Pacific parkinsonism-dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis complex is a prototypical neurodegenerative disorder found among inhabitants of Guam, New Guinea (Irian Jaya, Indonesia) and Japan (Kii Peninsula, Honshu). Nonviral environmental factors peculiar to the affected populations seem to play a prominent etiologic role. Although cause-effect relationships cannot be established by epidemiologic studies alone, we have shown in all three affected population groups that individuals develop the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis variant of this disorder after heavy exposure to the raw or incompletely detoxified seed of neurotoxic cycad plants. Since long periods may elapse between cycad exposure and the appearance of neurological disease in humans, cycads may harbor a "slow toxin" that causes the postmitotic neuron to undergo slow irreversible degeneration. Two cycad neurotoxins are recognized, one of which (cycasin) is known to have long-latency effects (tumorigenesis) on mitotic neurons and replicating cells in other tissues. This paper explores the possible relationship between tumorigenesis and long-latency neurotoxicity, and discusses possible biologic markers of cycad exposure and subclinical neurodegenerative disease. 
Interleukin 4 suppresses the spontaneous growth of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia cells. We studied the effects of IL-4 on the spontaneous proliferation of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL) cells in vitro. IL-4 (100 U/ml) suppressed the spontaneous DNA synthesis by approximately 50% in 5 of 8 cases examined. IL-4 (100 U/ml) also inhibited the spontaneous colony formation by CMMoL cells in a methylcellulose culture by 50-97% in all of the 10 cases in which spontaneous colonies were formed. This IL-4-mediated suppression of the growth of CMMoL cells was completely abolished by the addition of anti-IL-4 neutralizing antibodies. The spontaneous CMMoL colonies were substantially suppressed by the addition of either anti-IL-6 or anti-granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) antibodies to the colony assay system: the addition of both anti-IL-6 and anti-GM-CSF antibodies resulted in greater than 80% inhibition of the colony formation by CMMoL cells. On the other hand, none of anti-IL-1-beta, anti-granulocyte-CSF, anti-macrophage-CSF, or anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha antibodies affected the CMMoL colony formation. In the supernatants from 24-h cultures of CMMoL cells, high levels of IL-6 and GM-CSF were demonstrated in 9 of 9 and 2 of 9 cases examined, respectively. IL-4 (100 U/ml) almost completely inhibited the secretion of IL-6 and GM-CSF by CMMoL cells. These observations suggest that IL-4 suppresses the spontaneous proliferation of CMMoL cells by inhibiting their production of IL-6 and/or GM-CSF, both of which could act in vitro as an autocrine growth factor for CMMoL cells. 
A cell cycle-responsive transcriptional control element and a negative control element in the gene encoding DNA polymerase alpha in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transcription of the POL1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which encodes DNA polymerase alpha, the DNA polymerase required for the initiation of DNA replication, has previously been shown to be cell cycle regulated. To understand how the POL1 gene senses cell cycle position, we have investigated the cis-acting elements that respond to the factors that govern cell cycle progression. In this report we demonstrate that a region of 54 nucleotides containing the repeated element ACGCGT, which conforms to an Mlu I restriction endonuclease recognition site, contains all information necessary for transcriptional activation and cell cycle responsiveness. Although oligonucleotides lacking either one or both of the repeated Mlu I sites can function as an upstream activating sequence, the presence of at least one Mlu I site stimulates expression and, moreover, is absolutely essential for cell cycle regulation. A synthetic oligonucleotide corresponding to a 19-base-pair sequence in the POL1 promoter containing one Mlu I site can function as an autonomous cell cycle-responsive upstream element (upstream activation sequence) with temporal regulation indistinguishable from that previously described for the POL1 gene. Thus, the Mlu I site is an essential part of a cis-acting element responsible for the observed periodic activation. This sequence differs from previously defined cell cycle-responsive transcriptional control elements in the yeast HO endonuclease and histone genes. We also present evidence for a negative regulatory element in the 5' flanking region of the Mlu I upstream activation sequence. 
Resolution of chronic pelvic pain after laparoscopic lysis of adhesions. Thirty women undergoing laparoscopic lysis of adhesions for the treatment of chronic pelvic pain were prospectively evaluated for the presence of a chronic pain syndrome. At follow-up, of those with chronic pain syndrome (10), four (40%) reported continued improvement or resolution of pain during daily activities of dyspareunia, whereas of those without chronic pain syndrome (20), 15 (75%) were better (p = 0.06). When these two complaints are evaluated individually, both pain during daily activities (p less than 0.05) and dyspareunia (p less than 0.05) are more likely to improve after lysis of adhesions in women without chronic pain syndrome. Prognosis was not related to the number of previous operations, adhesion score, or other physical parameters. Laparoscopic lysis of adhesions is generally worthwhile in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain, although the presence of psychosocial compromise warrants preoperative evaluation and concomitant treatment. 
Colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. A prospective trial of optimal antibiotic management. The ideal prophylactic antibiotic regimen has not been established for patients undergoing colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, and endorectal ileoanal anastomosis, a prolonged operation frequently accompanied by abdominal and pelvic contamination and associated with an infection rate up to 20%. The aim of this study was to evaluate, in a prospective, randomized, double-blind fashion, the efficacy of a short perioperative course compared to an extended postoperative course of intravenous antibiotics (cefoxitin) in patients undergoing colectomy with ileoanal anastomosis. Forty patients with ulcerative colitis or familial polyposis coli received a mechanical and oral antibiotic bowel preparation and a standard three-dose perioperative course of intravenous cefoxitin. Patients then were randomized to receive intravenous cefoxitin, 1 g every 6 hours, or placebo for 5 days. No differences in overall postoperative morbidity were observed and neither group developed intra-abdominal, pelvic, or wound infections. It is concluded that a standard three-dose perioperative course of intravenous antibiotics provides adequate prophylaxis in the prevention of infectious complications in patients undergoing colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, and ileoanal anastomosis. 
Patient activity, sports participation, and impact loading on the durability of cemented total hip replacements. Patients with either cemented surface replacements or cemented stemmed hip prostheses and who regularly participate in sporting activities or heavy labor after total joint arthroplasty are at twice the long-term risk of requiring revision surgery for loosening as patients who are less active. For patients with surface replacement total hip arthroplasty (THA), the adverse effects of activity are greatest in patients with preoperative diagnoses other than osteoarthritis, and were seen by the sixth year postsurgery. For patients with conventional stemmed prostheses, the effects of patient activity are not seen until about ten years postsurgery. For resurfacing THA for osteoarthritis, the long-term of loosening is primarily in patients who participate in high impact activities. 
Presenting features and prognosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in younger adults. We have analyzed 117 younger patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (mean age, 44.5 years; SD, 4.8; range, 19 to 49; male/female ratio, 2.08) with three main objectives: (1) to see whether these patients have distinctive presenting clinical features; (2) to investigate the impact of the disease on survival; and (3) to analyze whether already well-known prognostic factors are also useful when applied to these patients. As compared with an older age population (greater than or equal to 50 years), there were no major differences in presenting features except for an increased proportion of males (2.08 v 1.21; P less than .025) and a higher hemoglobin level (13.47 +/- 2.70 g/dL v 12.84 +/- 2.77 g/dL; P less than .05) in the younger group. Median survival is 12.3 years (expected median from a control group, 31.2 years). Clinical stages, bone marrow patterns, blood lymphocyte counts, and its doubling time are all useful to separate different risk groups of patients. Whereas patients with favorable prognostic factors have a survival probability of about 80% 14 years after diagnosis, those with poor prognostic features have a median survival of less than 3 years. It is concluded that CLL in younger adults has no major distinctive presenting features and that known prognostic factors are useful to separate different risk groups of patients. These results should be of help in planning therapy for younger persons with CLL. 
Long-term efficacy and safety of terazosin alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents. This open, multicenter phase III study was designed to assess the efficacy and long-term safety of terazosin (1 to 40 mg/day), alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, in 364 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Compared with baseline values, long-term terazosin monotherapy or combination therapy resulted in consistent decreases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures, with a mean reduction in supine diastolic pressure of 12 to 14 mm Hg. The numbers of patients with controlled blood pressure at the last evaluable visit of each therapy period were as follows: terazosin alone, 106 of 245 (43%); terazosin with added diuretic, 70 of 112 (63%); diuretic with added terazosin, 47 of 88 (53%); and terazosin plus diuretic with added beta-blocker, 22 of 32 (69%). Most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. Only pain in extremities had a higher incidence during long-term treatment (6%, 181 to 360-day period) than during initial short-term treatment (5%, 1 to 90-day period). Three of six syncopal events occurred during the initial 180 days of treatment; this 0.8% (3/364) incidence was comparable with that reported previously for short-term studies. Only one case of syncope occurred during terazosin monotherapy. Terazosin was judged to be a safe and effective long-term medication for the treatment of hypertension. 
The "make/break test" as a diagnostic tool in functional weakness. Strength was measured in four major muscle groups with a hand-held dynamometer. The "make" and "break" technique was used with and without encouragement, and fatiguability was tested in patients with organic weakness and patients with functional weakness. Patients with functional weakness could be distinguished from the other two groups by an increase in strength greater than 20% with the break compared with the make technique. Additionally they tend to show larger increases in strength with encouragement and their "fatiguability" was less. 
Enhanced detection of the t(14;18) translocation in malignant lymphoma using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. The t(14;18) chromosomal translocation that results in the juxtaposition of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene with the heavy chain JH locus is a common cytogenetic abnormality in human lymphoma. In particular, it is seen in about 85% of follicular lymphoma (FL) and up to one-third of diffuse lymphomas (DL). The chromosome 18 breakpoints have been shown to cluster into two regions. The major breakpoint region (mbr) within the 3' untranslated region of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene accounts for approximately 60% of the cases and the minor cluster region (mcr) 30 kb 3' of bcl-2 accounts for approximately 25% of the breakpoints. Because of variability in the position of the breakpoint, detection of the t(14;18) by Southern blot analysis provides an important clonal marker for the tumor. However, conventional electrophoresis (CE) fails to detect the translocation in 15% to 25% of cases. We have applied pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to the detection of the t(14;18) in a series of lymphoma prospectively analyzed by CE, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and cytogenetic analysis. PFGE readily detected t(14;18) rearrangements as indicated by comigration of bands detected with probes for the mbr region (chromosome 18) and the JH locus (chromosome 14). In a series of 40 patients with FL, this method proved to be the most comprehensive for detection of the translocation compared with standard methods; in fact, in one case only PFGE was able to detect the chromosomal rearrangement. Ten percent of the FL cases were negative by all methods tested. In a separate analysis of matched tissue specimens from cases of tumor progression of FL to diffuse lymphoma, PFGE detected a common t(14;18) rearrangement confirming a clonal origin in seven of seven cases, whereas CE detected a rearrangement in only three of seven cases. Overall, PFGE was able to detect a translocation in 8 of 12 cases that were negative by CE and four of eight negative by cytogenetic analysis. In conclusion, PFGE analysis is more comprehensive than CE, PCR, and cytogenetic analysis for the detection of the t(14;18) breakpoint in tissue biopsies of malignant lymphoma. 
Small bowel tumours: yield of enteroscopy. A total of 258 patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding were referred for small bowel enteroscopy, a procedure which allows endoscopic evaluation of most of the small intestine. A small bowel tumour was found in 5% of patients. In 50% of patients no diagnosis could be made, but when the cause of obscure bleeding was discovered small bowel tumours were the single most common lesion in patients younger than 50 years. Small bowel tumours causing gastrointestinal bleeding may remain undetected despite extensive diagnostic evaluation. We conclude that small bowel tumours are the most common cause of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding in patients less than 50 years of age. Small bowel enteroscopy is diagnostic of small bowel tumours even when all previous diagnostic studies, including enteroclysis and angiography, are negative. 
Effect of DN-1417 on photosensitivity and cortically kindled seizure in Senegalese baboons, Papio papio. The effect of DN-1417, a thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analogue, on photosensitivity and cortically kindled seizures was examined in seven Senegalese baboons (Papio papio). Intravenous (i.v.) administration of 2 mg/kg had no effect on either photosensitivity or cortically kindled seizures. When this agent was administered intracisternally, both the photomyoclonic response and cortically kindled seizures were suppressed for 4-5 days. A study of the transcallosal response also showed a long-lasting attenuation of the early positive wave (P1) amplitude (peak latency, 5-10 ms) elicited by a single stimulus after cisternal injection of DN-1417. These findings are consistent with the assumption that endogenous TRH is involved in suppression of epileptic seizures. 
Comparison of extradural and intravenous diamorphine as a supplement to extradural bupivacaine. The influence of route of administration (extradural as compared with intravenous) of diamorphine 0.5 mg/hour as a supplement to extradural bupivacaine (0.125% at 15 ml/hour) was investigated in two groups of 20 patients who underwent major abdominal gynaecological surgery. Significantly more patients in the intravenous group withdrew because of inadequate analgesia (p less than 0.05). Those in the extradural group were significantly more drowsy throughout the study (p less than 0.01), but no major side effects were encountered. 
Extracranial-intracranial bypass to reduce the risk of ischemic stroke. Extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery is an operative procedure in which the superficial temporal artery is anastomosed to the middle cerebral artery. The operation, first described in 1969, was employed to circumvent otherwise surgically inaccessible atherosclerotic lesions high in the internal carotid system or in the middle cerebral artery. This assessment compares the findings from 13 surgical series of EC-IC bypass (1464 patients) with those reported in the only prospective, randomized, cooperative trial of this procedure (1377 patients). Analysis of the outcomes in the 1464 patients included in the surgical series produced insufficient evidence to support a conclusion that post-EC-IC bypass stroke rates were lower than the rates of either the medically or surgically treated groups in the controlled clinical trial. In the absence of reliable, objective evidence of the existence of a group of patients in whom surgical intervention is superior to medical treatment in reducing the frequency of stroke, the results of the single controlled clinical trial, which demonstrated no benefit of bypass, must be accepted as the best evidence currently available. 
Importance of experimental models for the development of clinical trials on thromboatherosclerosis. Experimental models of vascular injury have enhanced our understanding of the pathophysiological process leading to vascular obstruction in both spontaneous and accelerated atherosclerosis. Based on experimental findings, we present and discuss a pathological classification of vascular injury or damage and its role in the pathogenesis of various vascular diseases. In addition, these animal models have provided insights into the roles of platelets and lipid metabolism in the evolution and progression of atherosclerosis and have suggested potential therapeutic applications. Thus, based on studies in the pig models, antiplatelet agents have been shown for the first time to have a beneficial effect in preventing the formation and progression of coronary atherosclerotic lesions in humans. Similarly, our findings in high density lipoprotein plasma fractions regarding inhibition and even reversal of the process of atherosclerosis in a hypercholesterolemic rabbit model have added new insights to an explosive field of lipoprotein research and provided new avenues of therapeutic strategies. our in vivo and ex vivo pig models of an extracorporeal perfusion chamber mimicking the various coronary conditions have aided in the understanding of the pathophysiology of the acute coronary syndromes and intensified our search for the ideal antithrombotic regimen in these high-risk patients. Finally, a carotid pig model of balloon angioplasty, a dog model of saphenous vein grafting, and a pig model of heart transplantation not only have provided insights into the pathophysiological process of accelerated atherosclerosis but also are allowing development of new antithrombotic and antiproliferative approaches for the prevention of these accelerated vascular diseases. In summary, we are entering an exciting era in vascular research. Significant advances in our understanding of vascular injury or damage as well as the interactions of blood cells and lipids with the vascular wall have allowed us to formulate new experimental strategies with subsequent clinical application in the prevention and progression of these vascular diseases. 
Differentiation-inducing cytokine P48 exists in a membrane-associated form. P48 is a recently described 48-kDa differentiation-inducing cytokine isolated from the culture medium of the human leukemia line Reh. P48 induces differentiation and cytolytic activity in the promyelocytic cell line HL-60, and stimulates the release of TNF-alpha and IL-1 from peripheral blood monocytes. In further studies designed to examine the biosynthesis and function of P48, surface immunofluorescence flow cytometry analysis as well as 125I surface labeling and immunoprecipitation, revealed the presence of P48 on the surface of Reh cells. Triton X-114-treated Reh cells were partitioned into detergent and aqueous phases and separated by SDS-PAGE. Western blot analysis revealed that P48 partitioned exclusively into the detergent phase, suggesting an integral membrane association. Reh cells fixed with paraformaldehyde, but not K562 or P815, were able to stimulate the release of TNF-alpha from peripheral blood monocytes in a manner similar to that of secreted P48. Isolated plasma membranes from Reh cells could also stimulate TNF-alpha release. This TNF-alpha-releasing activity could be removed from detergent solubilized Reh membranes by immunoaffinity chromatography on an anti-P48 column. This study suggests that, in addition to being secreted into the culture medium, P48 is expressed on the surface of Reh cells in a biologically active form. The membrane form of P48 may be 1) a final maturation step before secretion or 2) a cell membrane-associated form that may be analogous to the membrane forms of TNF-alpha and IL-1. 
A meta-analysis of low-dose aspirin for the prevention of pregnancy-induced hypertensive disease. BACKGROUND.--Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), defined as either isolated hypertension after the 20th week of gestation or hypertension with proteinuria (preeclampsia), occurs in 5% to 15% of pregnancies and is associated with maternal and neonatal morbidity. Previous clinical trials with small numbers of patients have suggested that aspirin in doses of 60 to 150 mg/d during the second and third trimesters reduces the risk of PIH and improves maternal and neonatal outcomes. OBJECTIVE.--We performed a meta-analysis of the six published controlled trials to estimate more precisely (1) the magnitude of protection of aspirin from PIH; (2) the effect of aspirin on severe low-birth-weight infants, cesarean section, and perinatal mortality; and (3) the risk of adverse effects. METHODS.--We critically and independently evaluated study methods, assigned a quality score to each trial, and abstracted quantitative outcomes data. For each outcome, both relative risk (RR) and the number needed to be treated were calculated. RESULTS.--Among 394 subjects from six trials, the RR of PIH among women who took aspirin was 0.35 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.22 to 0.55) and the number needed to be treated was 4.4, meaning that between four and five high-risk women would need to be treated with aspirin to prevent one case of PIH. Aspirin reduced the risk of severe low birth weight among newborns by 44% (RR = 0.56; 95% CI, 0.36 to 0.88) and reduced the risk of cesarean section by 66% overall (RR = 0.34; 95% CI, 0.25 to 0.48), although the specific indications for cesarean section were generally not described. There was no effect on fetal and neonatal death (RR = 0.88; 95% CI, 0.32 to 2.46), and there were no maternal or neonatal adverse effects associated with taking aspirin. CONCLUSION.--This meta-analysis suggests that low-dose aspirin reduces the risks of PIH and severe low birth weight, with no observed risk of maternal or neonatal adverse effects. 
Relief of right ventricular angina and increased exercise capacity with long-term oxygen therapy. Long-term low-flow oxygen therapy can lead to improved exercise capacity and improved hemodynamics in selected patients with pulmonary hypertension. We report a patient who presented with severe exercise limitation and anginal chest pain that appeared to result from pulmonary hypertension and predominantly right ventricular ischemia. Acute oxygen therapy led to relief of pain but no change in exercise capacity or of pulmonary hypertension. After eight months of oxygen therapy, the patient's pulmonary hypertension was unchanged, but right ventricular hypertrophy and marked increases in exercise cardiac output and exercise capacity developed. Thus, oxygen can relieve right ventricular angina and facilitate the development of compensatory hypertrophy. 
Localization of gene for familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy to chromosome 14q1 in a diverse US population. BACKGROUND. Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, an inherited primary cardiac abnormality characterized by ventricular hypertrophy, is the leading cause of sudden death in the young. Recent application of restriction fragment length polymorphism markers has provided provocative results, with localization to chromosome 18 (Japanese studies), 16 (Italian studies), 14 (US and French-Canadian studies), and two (National Institutes of Health studies) indicating genetic heterogeneity. Interpretation remains speculative until at least one of these loci is confirmed in unrelated pedigrees by independent investigators. METHODS AND RESULTS. We studied eight unrelated families of varied ethnic origins across the United States. DNA from each individual was digested with restriction enzymes TaqI or BamHI and analyzed by Southern blots followed by hybridization with probes T cell receptor alpha (TCRA), myosin heavy chain beta, D14S25, and D14S26. Multipoint linkage analysis showed a maximum lod score of 4.3, placing the locus 10 cM from D14S26 between D14S26 and TCRA, with an odds ratio of 20,000:1 and 90% confidence limits of 12 cM proximal to D14S25 to 4 cM distal to TCRA. The probability of linkage to 14q1 was more than 99%. CONCLUSIONS. These results indicate that the loci for familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in our families is primarily 14q1 but does not exclude other loci in a small proportion of the families. Thus, 14q1 appears to be the locus for familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a significant proportion of the US population. 
Caffeine self-administration, withdrawal, and adverse effects among coffee drinkers. Twenty-two coffee drinkers (three to seven cups per day) underwent repeated double-blind trials to test for caffeine self-administration, withdrawal, and adverse effects. Each trial consisted first of a randomized crossover period of 1 day of decaffeinated coffee and 1 day of caffeinated coffee (100 mg) to assess withdrawal and adverse effects of caffeine. Next, subjects were given 2 days of concurrent access to the two coffees. The relative use of the two coffees was used to assess caffeine self-administration. Reliable caffeine self-administration occurred in three of 10 subjects in study 1 and seven of 12 subjects in study 2. Withdrawal symptoms were headaches, drowsiness, and fatigue. The major adverse effect from self-administration was tremulousness. The occurrence of headaches on substitution of decaffeinated coffee prospectively predicted subsequent self-administration of caffeine. These results indicate that some coffee drinkers exhibit signs of a caffeine dependence, ie, they self-administer coffee for the effects of caffeine, have withdrawal symptoms on cessation, and experience adverse effects. 
Four years of North American registry home parenteral nutrition outcome data and their implications for patient management. The OASIS Registry started annual collection of longitudinal data on patients on home parenteral nutrition (HPN) in 1984. This report describes outcome profiles on 1594 HPN patients in seven disease categories. Analysis showed clinical outcome was principally a reflection of the underlying diagnosis. Patients with Crohn's disease, ischemic bowel disease, motility disorders, radiation enteritis, and congenital bowel dysfunction all had a fairly long-term clinical outcome, whereas those with active cancer and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) had a short-term outcome. The long-term group had a 3-year survival rate of 65 to 80%, they averaged 2.6 complications requiring hospitalization per year, and 49% experienced complete rehabilitation. The short-term group had a mean survival of 6 months; they averaged 4.6 complications per year and about 15% experienced complete rehabilitation. The registry data also indicated HPN was used for 19,700 patients in 1987 with therapy growth averaging about 8% per year. This growth was chiefly from new cancer patients. The number of new patients with long-term disorders in whom HPN was initiated appeared rather constant. We conclude that these clinical outcome assessments justify HPN for long-term patients, but the utility and appropriateness of HPN for the cancer and AIDS patients remains uncertain and requires further study. Medical, social, and fiscal aspects of HPN management in long-term and short-term patients appear to involve quite separate considerations. 
Post-endarterectomy headache and the role of the oculosympathetic system. A study was carried out on headache after carotid endarterectomy. A specific type of headache, similar in its characteristics to "cluster headache", occurred on the operative side in 30% of 54 patients, whereas no such headache occurred after extra-intracranial bypass or peripheral vascular surgery. This postoperative headache was not spontaneously reported by 56% of patients unless they were specifically asked about it. Pharmacological pupillary testing performed in 37 patients revealed that a decreased oculosympathetic activity (with or without adrenoceptor supersensitivity) was constantly associated with post-endarterectomy headache. Although this same abnormality was also observed in 54% of the patients without headache, a statistically significant (p less than 0.01) higher prevalence of decreased oculosympathetic responses was found in the patients with headache. The results suggest that damage to the sympathetic plexus due to the surgical procedure is involved in the development of postoperative "cluster-like" headache. 
Improvement of psoriatic arthritis in a patient treated with bromocriptine for hyperprolactinemia. We describe a woman with psoriatic arthritis who experienced a remarkable improvement of her skin and joint disease while only taking bromocriptine therapy. She was treated with bromocriptine for primary infertility due to hyperprolactinemia. The improvement in joint symptoms appeared to parallel that of the skin. More studies are required to determine the reproducibility of this observation. 
Recovery of costal and crural diaphragmatic contractility from partial paralysis. Since the two muscles (costal and crural) that constitute the diaphragm are separate and histologically different, their individual recovery pattern from neuromuscular blockade also may be different. Therefore, we studied the recovery of force and shortening in the in vivo diaphragm from atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade in seven pentobarbital anesthetized dogs to assess segmental differences. Transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdi), shortening of costal and crural segments, integrated electromyogram (EMG), and tidal volume (VT) were measured during spontaneous breathing. After atracurium had reduced VT to 30% of control, breathing parameters were followed until recovered to 90% of control values. In addition, force-frequency curves generated by supramaximal tetanic stimuli of the phrenic nerve were measured. Recovery times for tidal Pdi, tidal EMG, tidal shortening, low-frequency shortening, and twitch Pdi were twice as fast as for VT (40 +/- 4 min), reflecting a slower rate of recovery of accessory inspiratory muscles. High-frequency recovery was typically slower than that of VT. During tidal breathing and tetanic stimulation, costal and crural shortening recovered simultaneously. On the other hand, comparison between costal and crural by analysis of pressure-shortening relationships showed a segmental difference (crural shortened 30% more than costal at the same Pdi), which implied reduced afterload on the crural segment. However, since shortening and pressure were linearly related during paralysis and recovery, measurements of Pdi alone can accurately reflect changes in contractile mass when heterogeneity and afterload are controlled. 
Trends in the pathophysiology and pharmacotherapy of spasticity [editorial] Spasticity develops after supraspinal or spinal lesions of descending motor systems, with obligate involvement of the corticospinal tract. Spasticity is characterized by an increase in muscle tone, which, in contrast to many other types of enhanced muscle tone, shows a marked velocity-dependent increase when the muscle is passively stretched. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this spastic muscle tone remain obscure. Three major causes are currently considered possible: (1) changes in the excitability of spinal interneurones; (2) receptor hypersensitivity; (3) formation of new synapses by sprouting. The latter mechanism could account for the long time course over which spastic muscle tone develops in hemiplegic or paraplegic patients, but there is no experimental evidence for this hypothesis. The electromyographic (EMG) gait analysis of patients with spasticity has thrown doubt on the common belief that the velocity-dependent increase in spastic muscle tone is evoked by stretch reflex activity and has led to the idea that spastic muscle tone resides in the muscle fibres themselves. While such a mechanism may contribute to the slowness of active movements in spastic patients, recent experiments on patients with spastic arm paresis have confirmed the classical view that the spastic muscle tone is related to the EMG activity evoked in the passively stretched muscle. This pathological EMG activity is seen during the entire range of the dynamic phase of the stretch, during which a normal muscle exhibits only an early, phasic burst at the highest stretch velocities employed. For the pharmacological treatment of spasticity, substances with different central or peripheral actions are available. Their assumed receptor actions are described, together with their main indications and side-effects. 
Fatal brainstem stroke following internal jugular vein catheterization. Neurologic complications of central venous catheterization are uncommon, and there are no reports of cerebrovascular events. We report a case of massive postoperative vertebrobasilar territory stroke following internal jugular vein cannulation due to inadvertent vertebral artery injury. Autopsy revealed thrombosis at the site of puncture wound in the right vertebral artery, with emboli present in the distal basilar artery. 
Efficient diagnosis of common complaints: a comparative study in the United States and England. BACKGROUND. The purpose of this investigation was to compare the diagnostic efficiency of American and British family and general practitioners, as measured by their utilization of health care resources and the average length of the diagnostic interval, in diagnosing common complaints. METHODS. Several hundred charts from teaching practices in the United States and England were identified by computer search and reviewed. The charts were those of patients who had presented between 1978 and 1988 with a complaint of chest pain and were subsequently diagnosed as having angina pectoris or reflux esophagitis, or who presented with a complaint of shortness of breath and were subsequently diagnosed as having heart failure or asthma. RESULTS. The results of this study, which compared teaching family medicine practices in the United States and England, suggest that American family physicians diagnose common complaints such as chest pain and dyspnea in a shorter time with fewer visits and fewer consultations than their English counterparts, but order approximately the same number of diagnostic tests. CONCLUSIONS. This study demonstrates the difficulties in interpreting international (cross-cultural) comparisons. Differences may be due to varying health care systems, economic factors, physician training, and physician practice styles, as well as patient expectations. 
Complications associated with brachytherapy alone or with laser in lung cancer. Relatively little has been reported about destruction through brachytherapy of mucosa-perforating and extraluminary tumors with probable large vessel involvement causing major hemorrhagic or fistular complications. We report 12 patients subjected to laser and brachytherapy for centrally occluding lung cancer, whom we have periodically followed up from June 1986 until they died. Although all laser procedures were free from complications, necrotic cavitation in five cases, two of which were accompanied by large bronchoesophageal fistulas, and massive fatal hemoptysis occurred in six. Minor complications included radiation mucositis (two), noncritical mucosal scarring (two), and cough (four). Characteristics that will identify patients at risk of developing fatal hemoptysis and fistulas should be better defined by imaging and endoscopic techniques. In such cases, modifying the protocol or using alternative procedures should be considered. Minor complications, such as cough, can be avoided by using topical steroid therapy (eg, beclomethasone dipropionate). 
Genetic control of immunopathology induced by Mycobacterium leprae. The pathogenesis of leprosy is almost totally attributable to the immune response of the host towards Mycobacterium leprae, a virtually non-toxic intra-cellular parasite. At one end of the leprosy spectrum are tuberculoid leprosy patients, who develop immunity but also delayed-type hypersensitivity towards M. leprae; at the other end are lepromatous leprosy patients, who lack helper T cell activity and therefore do not develop immunity, but who can nevertheless produce antibodies that may cause immunopathology due to immune complexes. A range of immunopathology is seen between these poles. 
Genital human papillomavirus infection in men. Diagnosis and treatment with a laser and 5-fluorouracil. One hundred twenty-eight consecutive men, sexual partners (for more than six months) of women treated for genital condylomata acuminata, were evaluated with colposcopy to assess the percentage of infected men among the couples. Ninety-three (73%) of the men were found to have a genital human papillomavirus infection on colposcopically directed biopsies. All but one patient were treated with outpatient colposcopically guided laser vaporization under local anesthesia (one patient with extensive condylomata required general anesthesia). Two weeks after laser surgery, 5% 5-fluorouracil cream, used in the genital area, was initiated on a weekly basis for two months and every other week for two more months. Patients were followed in the clinic with colposcopy performed every eight weeks for six months to evaluate the regimen's results. Thirty-seven (40%) of the 93 men had "clinically" apparent genital HPV infection, and 56 (60%) of the 93 had "subclinical" disease (as determined with colposcopy). The majority of the patients (87 of 93, or 94%) responded to one laser treatment followed by 5-fluorouracil cream and had no visible lesions at six months. Colposcopic evaluation of the male partners of infected women and laser surgery followed by topical 5-fluorouracil therapy appear to be safe and effective in controlling genital HPV infection. 
Sensorineural hearing loss and the Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome. Sensorineural hearing loss has not been previously reported in patients with the Marinesco-Sjogren Syndrome. Two siblings are described where hearing was initially normal but subsequently deteriorated. 
Coughing and central venous catheter dislodgement. Silastic central venous catheters are subject to dislodgement from a variety of causes. Only one occurrence of catheter dislodgement has been previously reported in connection with coughing. We report four additional cases of silastic central venous catheter dislodgement associated with forceful coughing paroxysms, alone or in combination with emesis or rectal tenesmus. Three episodes of catheter dislodgement occurred in adolescents or young adults with cystic fibrosis, who may constitute a particularly high-risk group. Dislodgement in two patients was asymptomatic. These case suggest that patients with frequent or severe paroxysms of increased intrathoracic pressure may be at higher risk of catheter dislodgement. Since dislodgement may be initially asymptomatic and can cause serious complications, a high index of suspicion for dislodgement in patients with silastic central venous catheters and coughing paroxysms is advised. 
Influence of human immunodeficiency virus infection on cell-mediated immunity in chronic D hepatitis. To determine whether the abnormalities of cell-mediated immunity described in chronic D hepatitis are associated with hepatitis D virus (HDV) infection or concomitant human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, serologic and tissue hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HDV markers and T lymphocyte subsets were studied in serum samples from 38 patients with chronic D hepatitis, 26 of whom had HIV infection. Patients with chronic D hepatitis and HIV infection had significantly lower peripheral blood T4:T8 ratios resulting from a significant increase in T8+ (suppressor/cytotoxic) cells, while numbers of T lymphocyte subsets were normal in cases with chronic D hepatitis only. HIV+ patients showed an increase in HBV replication (identified by hepatitis B core antigen in liver and hepatitis B e antigen and HBV DNA in serum) and in HDV replication (tissue D antigen and HDV RNA) without evidence of more active liver disease. Probably the immunologic disturbances detected in chronic D hepatitis are secondary to HIV infection, do not contribute to the pathogenesis of liver injury, and are associated with increased viral B and D replication. 
DuP 753 increases survival in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats fed a high sodium diet. We studied the effects of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist, DuP 753, on blood pressure, body weight, plasma renin activity, sodium excretion, and mortality in male stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRsp) fed a 4% NaCl diet for 12 weeks. The rise in blood pressure, due to high sodium intake, was blunted in the first 8 weeks of the study in the DuP 753-treated group; however, it started slowly to rise in the following weeks. In the untreated group, blood pressure rose steadily and it was significantly higher than that of the treated group during the whole experimental period. DuP 753-treated rats gained weight continuously during the study in contrast to the untreated group, where weight gain was arrested after 4 weeks. Plasma renin activity rose significantly after 4 weeks of treatment with DuP 753; by week 6 its values returned to baseline values and remained at these lower values until week 12. In the untreated group, plasma renin activity was not suppressed by high sodium intake after 4 weeks; it continued to rise and it was significantly elevated by 8 and 12 weeks. Survival at 12 weeks was 84% in DuP 753-treated group and 26% in the untreated group. The data demonstrate that DuP 753 decreased mortality and dramatically blunted the blood pressure rise in SHRsp fed a high sodium diet. 
Endometriosis of the terminal ileum simulating the clinical, roentgenographic, and surgical findings in Crohn's disease. A 38-yr-old nulliparous female presented with endometriosis of the terminal ileum which mimicked the clinical, roentgenographic, and surgical findings of Crohn's disease. The patient presented with diarrhea, right lower quadrant pain, fever, and significant weight loss. At surgery, the terminal ileum was inflamed, indurated, thickened, and angulated. Ileal endometriosis may be expected to simulate Crohn's disease, because intestinal endometriosis frequently produces local bowel inflammation, adhesions, stricture, and angulation. Ileal endometriosis should be carefully considered in the differential diagnosis of Crohn's disease in menstruating females who are nulliparous and have dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, dyschezia, menometrorrhagia, or other perimenstrual symptoms. It is important not to mistake endometriosis for Crohn's disease because endometriosis has a different therapy. 
Clinical and flow cytometry characteristics of malignant pleural effusions in patients after intracavitary administration of methylprednisolone acetate. Ten patients with recurrent pleural effusions due to advanced cancer were treated by intracavitary methylprednisolone acetate (Depo-Medrol [DM], Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI). They received one to six courses of DM (median, three courses per patient) with doses ranging from 80 to 160 mg per course. Effusion cells were cryopreserved before and during DM installation for subsequent determination of ploidy by flow cytometry. Pleural effusion in all three patients with advanced breast cancer resolved and did not reaccumulate throughout follow-up for 11+, 10+, and 8+ months. Pleural effusion in a patient with metastatic gastric cancer and in two of four patients with adenocarcinoma of unknown origin partially resolved. Altogether six of ten patients (60%) subjectively and objectively benefited from this therapy. All patients tolerated the treatment well with no local or systemic side effects. Flow cytometry showed a reduction in ploidy of effusion cells in all three patients with breast cancer, from a peak mean channel of 6C to nearly 2C after therapy. Transient reduction of ploidy was seen also in the effusion of a patient with unknown primary tumor associated with clinical improvement. The clinical and laboratory data reported offers initial evidence that DM when instilled into the pleural cavity after incomplete thoracentesis may act as effective palliative therapy either alone or in combination with other anticancer agents. 
Total hip arthroplasty following failed internal fixation of hip fractures. A retrospective review was performed on 27 consecutive patients with total hip arthroplasty (THA) following failure of internal fixation of fractures of the proximal femur. The results were comparable to primary THA in femoral neck fractures. Considerably less satisfactory results were obtained in THA in intertrochanteric fractures. Bone loss and medial displacement of the femoral shaft led to high incidence of intraoperative complications and postoperative dislocations. Extreme care must be taken to avoid fracture and penetration of the femoral shaft. Autograft, allograft, or head and neck replacement components should be available for reconstruction of the difficult cases. 
A randomized trial of amsacrine and rubidazone in 39 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Thirty-nine patients with untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) were randomly allocated to receive rubidazone (zorubicin) 200 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 4 plus cytarabine (Ara C) 200 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 7 (arm A, 21 patients), or amsacrine (Amsa) 150 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 4 plus Ara C 200 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 7 (arm B, 18 patients). Prophylaxis of disseminated intravascular coagulation was made by platelet transfusions and heparin. In case of leukemic resistance, patients received a second course with 2 days of rubidazone (arm A) or Amsa (arm B) and 3 days of Ara C. Patients who achieved complete remission (CR) received three consolidation courses with the two drugs used for induction and maintenance therapy for 3 years. Two patients in arm A and one in arm B were allografted in first CR. Initial characteristics were similar in both arms. In arm A, 18 patients (86%) reached CR, two had hypoplastic death, and one had leukemic resistance after two courses. In arm B, 12 patients (66%) achieved CR, two had early death (CNS bleeding, one case; ventricular fibrillation, one case), and four had resistant leukemia after two courses. The difference in CR rate between the two arms was not significant. In arm A, disease-free survival (DFS) showed a plateau at 54.3% after 34 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 32.1% to 74.9%), with eight CRs longer than 34 months. In arm B, DFS was significantly shorter (P less than .03), showing a plateau at 16.7% after 38 months (95% confidence interval, 4.7% to 44.6%), and only two prolonged CRs were seen. The difference in DFS remained significant after censoring allografted patients and patients who died in CR (one in arm A, two in arm B). Our results suggest that Amsa-Ara C combinations may be inferior to anthracycline-Ara C combinations in the treatment of APL, because they seem to provide shorter DFS and, possibly, a higher incidence of initial leukemic resistance. However, studies with larger numbers of patients are required. 
Clinical findings associated with pulmonary embolism in a rehabilitation setting. In a rehabilitation setting, pulmonary embolism is a relatively frequent and life-threatening complication. Deciding when a patient may be experiencing this condition is difficult, however, because of frequent deficits in patient communication skills (eg, aphasia and cognitive deficits) and the multisystem illnesses affecting many rehabilitation patients. We reviewed the charts of 30 rehabilitation patients transferred emergently during the years 1986 to 1988 with a diagnosis of pulmonary embolism, which was subsequently documented by ventilation-perfusion scanning. The average age of the 30 patients was 65; 63% were women and 20 (67%) had an admitting diagnosis of stroke. The most common new-onset clinical findings in the 24 hours before discharge were unusual facial skin color changes (pale, flushed, or cyanotic) (57%), chest or upper back pain (47%), tachycardia (heart rate more than 100 bpm) (40%), hypoxemia (arterial oxygen saturation less than or equal to 90%) (40%), and fever less than 101F (37%). In 63% of the patients, either anxiety, restlessness, diaphoresis, or dyspnea was also noted in the 24 hours before discharge. The data suggest that careful physician and nursing scrutiny may identify clinical signs characteristic of pulmonary embolism, and that the de novo appearance of these constellations of findings may help to select candidates for ventilation-perfusion scanning. 
Long-term survival in patients operated on for benign peptic ulcer disease. Survival rate was analysed in a cohort of 6459 patients who had undergone partial gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease and who had survived the first year after operation. The cohort was followed for 27-35 years. There was a slight but significant decrease in relative survival rate to 92 per cent (95 per cent confidence interval 87-97 per cent) 35 years after operation. No decrease in relative survival rate was observed during the first 20 years after operation. There was no difference by gender or surgical procedure, but patients operated on for gastric ulcer, compared with duodenal ulcer, and patients operated on at younger ages had a poorer relative survival rate. The effects of partial gastrectomy on survival, both overall and by diagnosis or age at operation, are probably attributable to confounding factors linked with the peptic ulcer disease rather than to the surgical procedure itself. We conclude that partial gastrectomy seems to have very little impact on survival once the patient has survived the first year after operation. 
Mineral spirits inhalation associated with hemolysis, pulmonary edema, and ventricular fibrillation. A previously healthy 42-year-old woman developed severe dyspnea, chest discomfort, and malaise several hours after prolonged exposure to concentrated vapors from mineral spirits. On the way to the hospital, she sustained a cardiopulmonary arrest; on arrival several minutes later, she was found to be in ventricular fibrillation and was resuscitated. Her hospital course included slowly resolving cardiac abnormalities, amnesia, noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, abrupt hemolytic anemia, sustained rhabdomyolysis, and other metabolic abnormalities. It is highly probable that this syndrome represented acute and near-lethal toxicity caused by the inhalational exposure to the petroleum distillate known as mineral spirits. It is important that physicians be aware of this syndrome in order to recognize it on presentation and to warn patients of the risk of such toxic exposure. 
Pituitary adenoma: correlation of half-dose gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging with surgical findings in 26 patients. Sellar magnetic resonance imaging studies obtained with half doses of gadopentetate dimeglumine (0.05 mmol/kg) were prospectively interpreted and retrospectively rated in 26 patients who subsequently underwent transsphenoidal sellar surgery for suspected pituitary adenoma. Studies included a sagittal scout view followed by a non-contrast-material-enhanced, an immediate postcontrast, and a delayed postcontrast T1-weighted image (obtained at 1.0 or 1.5 T). Ten of 11 confirmed microadenomas were identified prospectively; all were identifiable in retrospect. Macroadenomas (12 cases) were well demonstrated. The high signal intensity of the posterior pituitary and of intrasellar hemorrhage was obscured on postcontrast studies. Delayed images proved unnecessary. This prospective evaluation suggests that a half-dose study is comparable to retrospective studies in which full-dose techniques were used for detection of micro- and macroadenomas. Imaging times are reasonably short, and cost of contrast material is potentially reduced. Confirmation with larger studies is required, and careful endocrinologic and clinical follow-up of nonsurgical patients is necessary. 
Metastatic basal cell carcinoma: report of a case presenting with respiratory failure. Metastasis from basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of skin is rare. A case of a 58-year-old male presenting with increasing shortness of breath and right pleural effusion is described. Open right pleural biopsy demonstrated metastatic carcinoma consistent with BCC. Review of medical records from another hospital revealed that four years previously a recurrent BCC had been excised from the left back. One and three years prior to this excision, a skin lesion at this same site had been treated with electrocautery. Review of the skin excision slides demonstrated infiltrating BCC histologically very similar to the metastatic pleural neoplasm. The patient died two months after the pleural biopsy. At autopsy, the cutaneous BCC had not recurred and metastatic BCC extensively infiltrated the pleura bilaterally, with focal involvement of underlying lung parenchyma, subcarinal lymph nodes, diaphragm, and pericardium. 
Effect of temporary occlusion of hypogastric arteries on blood loss during radical retropubic prostatectomy. We report on a prospective, partially randomized study of 130 patients, examining the effect of temporary occlusion of the hypogastric arteries on intraoperative blood loss, perioperative blood replacement and change in preoperative to postoperative hematocrit. We observed no significant difference in any of these parameters when comparing patients who did and did not undergo intraoperative occlusion of the hypogastric arteries. These findings suggest that temporary occlusion of the hypogastric arteries during radical prostatectomy does not have a major effect on the blood loss associated with this operation. Extensive collateral circulation to the prostate and a substantial venous component of blood loss may explain these findings. Banking of 3 units of autologous blood preoperatively would have decreased the need for homologous transfusions in the majority of patients. 
A new manifestation and treatment alternative for heparin-induced thrombosis. We treated a coronary artery bypass patient whose postoperative course was complicated by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and resultant pulmonary artery and saphenous vein graft thromboses. The pulmonary thromboemboli were found first, and pulmonary blood flow was restored with intravenously administered tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). A short time later, the vein grafts were found to be occluded, and we subsequently performed multivessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) using tPA as an adjuvant to oral warfarin sodium therapy with excellent results. We conclude that heparin-induced thromboses in the pulmonary arteries are amenable to thrombolytic therapy, including tPA, whereas this regimen appears to have little effect on saphenous vein grafts. We also found that a combination of warfarin and thrombolytic therapy is an alternative regimen for heparin-intolerant patients who require PTCA. 
Seminal polyamines as agents of cervical carcinoma: production of aneuploidy in squamous epithelium. The effects of several polyamines found in seminal fluid on the cell cycle and ploidy of three cervical cell lines and of primary epithelial cells cultured from cervical biopsy specimens were monitored by fluorescent flow cytometry. The rate of cell growth did not change but there were indications of either hypodiploidy or hyperdiploidy in some cultures at certain concentrations of spermine and spermidine. An interaction of exogenous polyamines with the DNA of cervical cells was shown to occur, leading to changes in ploidy with, perhaps, the potential to induce or promote dysplasia. 
The value of class IC antiarrhythmic drugs for acute conversion of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter to sinus rhythm. In a single-blind randomized study, the efficacy and safety of intravenous propafenone (2 mg/kg body weight per 10 min) versus flecainide (2 mg/kg per 10 min) were assessed in 50 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. Treatment was considered successful if sinus rhythm occurred within 1 h. Conversion to sinus was achieved in 11 (55%) of 20 patients with atrial fibrillation treated with propafenone and in 18 (90%) of 20 with atrial fibrillation treated with flecainide (p less than 0.02). If atrial fibrillation was present less than or equal to 24 h, conversion to sinus rhythm was achieved in 8 (57%) of 14 patients in the propafenone group and 13 (93%) of 14 in the flecainide group (p less than 0.05). Atrial flutter was converted in two (40%) of five patients treated with propafenone and in one (20%) of five with flecainide (p = NS). Mean time to conversion was 16 +/- 10 min in the propafenone group versus 18 +/- 13 min in the flecainide group (p = NS). QRS lengthening (83 +/- 15 to 99 +/- 20 ms) was observed only in the patients treated with flecainide (p less than 0.001). Patients successfully treated with propafenone showed significantly higher plasma levels than those whose arrhythmia did not convert to sinus rhythm. Transient adverse effects were more frequent in the flecainide group (40%) than in the propafenone group (8%) (p less than 0.01). In conclusion, at a dose of 2 mg/kg in 10 min, flecainide is more effective than propafenone for conversion of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. However, considering the propafenone plasma levels and very few adverse effects, the dose or infusion rate, or both, used in the propafenone group may not have been sufficient to achieve an optimal effect. Neither drug seems very effective in patients with atrial flutter. 
Longitudinal study of cerebral spinal fluid drainage in polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase in paraplegia associated with thoracic aortic cross-clamping. It has been hoped that pharmacologic prophylaxis in thoracic aortic cross-clamping may avert the unpredictable complication of spinal cord paraplegia, may avoid the mechanical difficulties associated with shunts, partial bypass, or monitoring devices, and may serve as a substitute for or as an adjunct to cerebral spinal fluid drainage. Toward this end 21 mongrel dogs were studied in four groups and underwent 60 minutes of thoracic aortic cross-clamping: group I, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping; group II, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping and cerebral spinal fluid drainage; group III, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping, cerebrospinal fluid drainage and intravenous administration of a single dose (5000 units/kg) of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD) given 15 to 20 minutes before thoracic aortic cross-clamping; and group IV, six with thoracic aortic cross-clamping and PEG-SOD. Paraplegia was graded by the Tarlov method at 24 hours and up to 5 days after thoracic aortic cross-clamping. The carotid and femoral artery pressures, the central venous pressure, and core temperature, taken during the experiment and at the time the dogs were killed, were found to be similar between groups. At 24 hours all dogs in group I were paraplegic; groups II and III had no paraplegic dogs (p less than 0.01), and group IV had fewer paraplegic dogs (two of six) than group I (p less than 0.05). Paraplegia was averted in all dogs treated with cerebral spinal fluid drainage, even 5 days after thoracic aortic cross-clamping. 
QTc prolongation measured by standard 12-lead electrocardiography is an independent risk factor for sudden death due to cardiac arrest. BACKGROUND. QTc prolongation has been implicated as a risk factor for sudden death; however, a controversy exists over its significance. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the Rotterdam QT Project, 6,693 consecutive patients who underwent 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiography were followed up for 2 years; of these, 245 patients died suddenly. A standard 12-lead electrocardiogram and clinical data at the time of 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiography were collected for all patients who died suddenly and for a random sample of 467 patients from the study cohort. In all patients without an intraventricular conduction defect (176 patients who died suddenly and 390 patients from the sample), QT interval duration was measured in leads I, II, and III and corrected for heart rate with Bazett's formula (QTc). In patients without evidence of cardiac dysfunction (history of symptoms of pump failure or an ejection fraction less than 40%), QTc of more than 440 msec was associated with a 2.3 times higher risk for sudden death compared with a QTc of 440 msec or less (95% confidence interval: 1.4, 3.9). In contrast, in patients with evidence of cardiac dysfunction, the relative risk of QTc prolongation was 1.0 (0.5, 1.9). Adjustment for age, gender, history of myocardial infarction, heart rate, and the use of drugs did not alter these relative risks. CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that in patients without intraventricular conduction defects and cardiac dysfunction, QTc prolongation measured from the standard electrocardiogram is a risk factor for sudden death independent of age, history of myocardial infarction, heart rate, and drug use. In patients with cardiac dysfunction, QTc duration is not related to the risk for sudden death. 
Gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced chemical-shift MR imaging of the breast. Standard T1-weighted MR images enhanced with gadopentetate dimeglumine show relatively minimal enhancement of breast lesions due to the high background signal from fat in the breast. Strongly enhancing lesions may become isointense relative to the fat signal and become invisible or indistinct after contrast administration. Fat-suppressed chemical-shift imaging (CSI) combined with administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine improves lesion detection and characterization in other areas of the body where a strong lipid signal is present. We evaluated this technique in the breast. Twenty patients with mammographic lesions were studied with standard unenhanced T1- and T2-weighted images and enhanced T1-weighted images, as well as with CSI before and after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine. The series were ranked independently for border and matrix characteristics. The border was assessed for a smooth, irregular, or spiculated margin. The matrix or internal substance was evaluated for visibility and type of enhancement, homogeneous or inhomogeneous. The enhanced CSI images were superior to all other images in the depiction of border and matrix characteristics. Of 20 patients, a corresponding mass was detected on MR in 14. In two of the 14 patients, the lesion was seen only in the enhanced CSI images. Chemical-shift artifacts on enhanced T1-weighted images obscured border detail in several cases. Enhanced CSI improves visualization of breast lesions as compared with conventional MR imaging with or without enhancement. The enhanced CSI technique produces differential enhancement between glandular tissue and lesions while suppressing the signal from fat. This improves the visualization of border and matrix characteristics and depicts lesions that otherwise might be obscured. 
Safety-belt injuries in children with lap-belt ecchymosis: CT findings in 61 patients. We have noted a complex of common injuries in children wearing lap-styled safety belts during vehicular accidents. Sixty-one children who were restrained passengers in motor vehicle crashes had linear ecchymosis across the abdomen and had CT for abdominal trauma. Thirteen children (21%) had a lumbar spine injury, and 14 children (23%) injured a hollow viscus (bowel, 12; bladder, two); five children (8%) had both spine and hollow viscus injuries. Abnormal findings on abdominal CT were recognized retrospectively in three of 13 children with lumbar spinal injury. Lateral radiographs of the spine showed lumbar spinal injury in all cases. Free intraperitoneal air was noted in on three (25%) of 12 children with bowel injury. In eight of those children, CT showed large, unexplained collections of peritoneal fluid. The presence of lap-belt ecchymosis should prompt a careful search for spine, bowel, and bladder injury. Recognition of the limitations of CT diagnosis of these injuries is important to reduce errors in interpretation. 
Achromobacter xylosoxidans. An unusual neonatal pathogen. Perinatal acquisition of a rare pediatric pathogen, Achromobacter xylosoxidans, with evidence for in utero transmission, is described. Cultures from the mother and neonate demonstrated A. xylosoxidans. An ascending bacterial infection in the mother with clinical chorioamnionitis is presented as the probable mode of transmission. Postmortem examination of the infant confirmed Achromobacter meningitis. In contrast to the current case with transmission from mother to neonate, previously published neonatal cases of Achromobacter infections indicate that nosocomial transmission of the organism is most common (79%). In addition, the literature review revealed a high mortality associated with meningitis (77%), frequent hydrocephalus, and subsequent neurologic sequelae (36%). To the authors' knowledge, this is the first documented case of maternal-fetal transfer of A. xylosoxidans. 
Complexes of activated protein C with alpha 1-antitrypsin in normal pregnancy and in severe preeclampsia. Protein C is a vitamin K-dependent regulator of blood coagulation. Activated protein C is regulated in plasma in large part by two inhibitors, protein C inhibitor and alpha 1-antitrypsin. Complexes of activated protein C with both inhibitors in plasma samples from subjects with normal or pathologic pregnancy were measured. In normal pregnancy we observed a progressive and significant increase in activated protein C/alpha 1-antitrypsin complex levels, from 9 +/- 3 ng/ml in the first trimester to 16 +/- 3 ng/ml in the third trimester, as well as an increase in alpha 1-antitrypsin plasma levels. In severe preeclampsia, but not in chronic hypertension with superimposed severe preeclampsia, there was a greater increase in activated protein C/alpha 1-antitrypsin levels (25 +/- 10 ng/ml) (p less than 0.001) and a decrease in protein C and protein C inhibitor levels as compared with normal pregnant women at similar gestational ages. These data show an increase in the activation of the protein C pathway in both normal and pathologic pregnancy and provide evidence for an enhancement of thrombin generation in severe preeclampsia compared with chronic hypertension with superimposed severe preeclampsia. 
Broncholithiasis: CT features in 15 patients. Broncholithiasis is a disorder characterized by peribronchial calcific nodal disease that either erodes into an adjacent bronchus or distorts the bronchi. The key radiologic finding is a calcified endobronchial or peribronchial lymph node. To determine the CT findings of broncholithiasis, we retrospectively reviewed the chest radiographs and CT scans of 15 patients with proved broncholithiasis. Ten patients had endobronchial nodes as proved by bronchoscopy, surgery, or lithoptysis. Broncholiths were identified on bronchoscopy in only five cases. Five patients had peribronchial nodes with associated bronchial distortion. Collimation of the CT scans varied; 1.0-cm-, 0.6-cm-, and 0.5-cm-thick sections were obtained. Three patients had both 1.0-cm- and 0.5-cm-thick sections. The calcified lymph node was identified on CT in all 15 patients. CT correctly localized six of 10 endobronchial nodes and four of five peribronchial nodes. Findings due to bronchial obstruction also were seen on CT; atelectasis (n = 11), infiltration (n = 4), bronchiectasis (n = 4), and air trapping (n = 1). An associated soft-tissue mass was not seen in any case. Difficulty in determining the relationship between lymph node and bronchus is due to volume averaging, which can be decreased by scanning thinner sections. CT can suggest the diagnosis of broncholithiasis and is useful when bronchoscopy does not show a broncholith. 
Tocainide therapy in muscle cramps and spasms due to neuromuscular disease. Significant improvement in symptoms of disabling cramps and muscle spasms was obtained in 9 patients with motor neuron diseases, tetany, and myotonic disorders who were treated with tocainide, a lidocaine analog. No significant side effects were observed except for light-headedness and fatigue in 1 patient, who also showed slight prolongation of intraventricular conduction time. Tocainide is useful in treating disabling muscle spasms and cramps associated with conditions characterized by neuromuscular irritability. This effect is probably based on stabilization of the membrane potential at various levels (motor neurons, peripheral nerve, or muscle fiber membrane). 
Headache in transient or permanent cerebral ischemia. Dutch TIA Study Group. We studied headache features in 3,126 patients with acute cerebral or retinal ischemia. Headache occurred in 18% of these patients (in 16% of all patients with transient ischemic attacks, in 18% of patients with reversible ischemic neurologic deficits, and in 19% of patients with minor strokes) and was mostly continuous in all types of attacks. Headache was present in 16% of patients with monocular visual symptoms. The occurrence of headache was not related to the mode of onset, mode of disappearance, or duration of the attack. Patients with headache more often were known to have heart disease. Headache was less frequent in patients with small deep infarcts, who were more often hypertensive, and in patients with infarcts in the anterior circulation; headache was more frequent in patients with cortical infarcts and in patients with infarcts in the posterior circulation. Patients with a relevant small deep infarct on computed tomographic scan and accompanying headache relatively often reported symptoms compatible with cortical ischemia, such as language disorders or a visual field defect. We conclude that headache is a frequent accompanying symptom in patients with acute cerebral and retinal ischemia and that the occurrence of headache is partly related to the underlying cause of the ischemic lesion. 
Arteriovenous malformation in meningothelial meningioma: case report. An unusual association of a meningioma and an arteriovenous malformation is reported. A 68-year-old man developed left homonymous hemianopsia, left hemiparesis, and gaze palsy. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a right occipital mass lesion containing multiple signal-void areas with tubular and honeycomb appearance, suggesting a marked vascular component. An angiogram showed abnormal vasculature in the mass supplied by the posterior cerebral artery and a dural arteriovenous malformation on the tentorium. Neuropathological examination after total removal of the mass revealed a meningothelial meningioma including major portions of an arteriovenous malformation that extended from the dura and leptomeninges, through the meningioma, and into the occipital lobe, where the tumor was located. 
Prognostic significance of the Karnofsky Performance Status score in patients with acute myocardial infarction: comparison with the left ventricular ejection fraction and the exercise treadmill test performance. The MILIS Study Group. The prognostic significance of functional status has not been previously studied in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. We assessed the Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) score, a simple functional status scale that is commonly used to categorize physical ability, in 849 patients with acute myocardial infarction who were enrolled in the Multicenter Investigation of the Limitation of Infarct Size (MILIS) study. We then compared the KPS score with other predictors of prognosis in these patients. In patients who presented with acute myocardial infarction, a lower KPS score (less than 8 on a scale of 1 to 10) 3 weeks before the index infarction was associated with a higher incidence of congestive heart failure, in-hospital cardiac arrest, and mortality during hospitalization, as compared with patients with KPS scores greater than or equal to 8 (each p less than 0.001). Cumulative 1-year and 4-year mortality rates were significantly higher in patients with KPS scores less than 8, as compared with patients with KPS scores greater than or equal to 8 (42.5% vs. 12.6% at 1 year and 61.6% vs 25.1% at 4 years, respectively; both p less than 0.001). The left ventricular ejection fraction on admission was significantly lower in patients with KPS scores less than 8, as compared with those with KPS scores greater than or equal to 8 (p less than 0.019). The cumulative mortality rate was equally well predicted by low KPS score and by left ventricular ejection fraction (both p less than 0.0001). 
Cerebrovascular disease in hypertensive blacks. There is convincing evidence that all grades of persistent diastolic hypertension, especially in blacks, should be treated in order to prevent stroke and other cardiovascular complications. Studies are now in progress to gather additional information concerning isolated systolic hypertension, especially in the aged. Inasmuch as at least one half or more of stroke deaths in blacks develop as the result of hypertension, lowering blood pressure offers the perfect opportunity to reduce considerably the frequency of this devastating illness. The recent dramatic fall in U.S. stroke mortality, greatest in the black female, is a commendable achievement, but the flattening of the declining mortality curve over the past several years should be a cause for alarm and intensive investigation. 
Choroidal detachment associated with malignant choroidal tumors. The association of choroidal detachment with malignant choroidal tumors is not well recognized. The authors' experience with six cases suggests that choroidal detachment may be associated with both metastatic tumors and choroidal melanoma. In two of these cases, the choroidal or retinal detachment was so massive that echography was necessary to detect the underlying tumor. Three patients presented with painful visual loss, and three patients presented with painless visual loss or a visual field defect. In one patient, the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment of the choroidal metastasis with external radiation relieved the patient's pain and improved visual acuity from 1/200 to 20/35. Metastatic and primary uveal malignant tumors should be added to the list of causes of choroidal detachment and can be excluded only after thorough clinical, and often echographic, examination. 
Coronary risk factors and the postbypass patient. Atherosclerosis frequently develops in SVGs during the first 10 years. This process appears related to coronary risk factors. Several studies have found an association between hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis documented at pathology. Late changes attributed to atherosclerosis that were observed at angiography were also significantly related to elevated serum levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides. They also were found in association with diabetes, systemic hypertension, and smoking in some studies. Several clinical studies have documented an association of one or several coronary risk factors with postoperative clinical events, including recurrence of angina, myocardial infarction, heart failure, reoperation because of clinical deterioration, and survival. These factors have been shown to act alone or in combination. The most important is an abnormal lipid profile and diabetes. Smoking and hypertension were seldom found to be significant predictors when considered separately, but appear to play an important role in association with the others. Control of coronary risk factors, particularly hyperlipidemia and smoking, seems mandatory in order to prevent SVG atherosclerosis and progression of the disease in the native coronary arteries. 
Short-term effect of dynamic exercise on arterial blood pressure BACKGROUND. To quantify the duration of postexercise hypotension at different exercise intensities, we studied six unmedicated, mildly hypertensive men matched with six normotensive controls. METHODS AND RESULTS. Each subject wore a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitor at the same time of day for 13 consecutive hours on 3 different days. On each of the 3 days, subjects either cycled for 30 minutes at 40% or 70% maximum VO2 or performed activities of daily living. There was no intensity effect on the postexercise reduction in blood pressure, so blood pressure data were combined for the different exercise intensities. Postexercise diastolic blood pressure and mean arterial pressure were lower by 8 +/- 1 (p less than 0.001) and 7 +/- 1 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), respectively, than the preexercise values for 12.7 hours in the hypertensive group. These variables were not different before and after exercise in the normotensive group. Systolic blood pressure was reduced by 5 +/- 1 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) for 8.7 hours after exercise in the hypertensive group. In contrast, systolic blood pressure was 5 +/- 1 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) higher for 12.7 hours after exercise in the normotensive group. When the blood pressure response on the exercise days was compared with that on the nonexercise day, systolic blood pressure (135 +/- 1 versus 145 +/- 1 mm Hg) and mean arterial pressure (100 +/- 1 versus 106 +/- 1 mm Hg) were lower (p less than 0.05) on the exercise days in the hypertensive but not in the normotensive group. We found a postexercise reduction in mean arterial pressure for 12.7 hours independent of the exercise intensity in the hypertensive group. Furthermore, mean arterial pressure was lower on exercise than on nonexercise days in the hypertensive but not in the normotensive group. CONCLUSION. These findings indicate that dynamic exercise may be an important adjunct in the treatment of mild hypertension. 
The management of geriatric hypertension in health maintenance organizations. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the quality of medical care received by Medicare enrollees with hypertension in health maintenance organizations (HMOs) compared to that received by a similar group of elderly hypertensives in a fee-for-service (FFS) setting. DESIGN: A quasi-experimental design was used to study an historical cohort of newly evaluated hypertensive patients over a 2-year period. SETTING: Medicare HMO and FFS practice settings. PARTICIPANTS: Eight Medicare HMOs and 87 FFS primary care physicians in the same communities were selected. A sample of 685 elderly hypertensive patients was studied, 336 in FFS settings and 349 in HMOs. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: An expert panel of physicians selected standards of care for the management of geriatric hypertension, and medical records were reviewed. The results showed significant differences (P less than 0.01) in recording medications (94.5% HMO versus 88% FFS) and smoking histories (75.8% HMO versus 64.7% FFS), checking orthostatic blood pressures (9.5% HMO versus 3.3% FFS), performing funduscopy (44.4% HMO versus 27% FFS), completing cardiac examinations (90.8% HMO versus 79.8% FFS), and obtaining chest x-rays (72.8% HMO versus 64.3% FFS, P less than 0.05). Treatment and follow-up were similar between the two groups, except that FFS hypertensives were more likely to have medications adjusted and electrolytes ordered. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that elderly hypertensives in HMOs received equal or better quality of care for most criteria compared to elderly hypertensives in FFS settings. 
Proarrhythmic response to sodium channel blockade. Theoretical model and numerical experiments. BACKGROUND. The use of flecainide and encainide was terminated in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial because of an excess of sudden cardiac deaths in the active treatment group. Such events might arise from reentrant rhythms initiated by premature stimulation in the presence of anisotropic sodium channel availability. Drugs that bind to sodium channels increase the functional dispersion of refractoriness by slowing (a result of the drug-unbinding process) the transition from an inexcitable state to an excitable state. It is interesting that encainide and flecainide unbind slowly (15-20 seconds), whereas lidocaine and moricizine unbind rapidly (0.2-1.3 seconds). METHODS AND RESULTS. With a computer representation of a cable with Beeler-Reuter membrane properties, we found a small (6 msec) vulnerable window that occurred 338 msec after the last drive stimulus. Premature stimuli falling within the vulnerable window resulted in unidirectional block and reentrant activation. In the presence of a slowly unbinding drug, the window was delayed an additional 341 msec, and its duration was extended to 38 msec. The delay (antiarrhythmic effect) before the onset of the vulnerable window and its duration (proarrhythmic effect) were both dependent on the sodium channel availability and the recovery process. Both effects were also prolonged when sodium channel availability was reduced by membrane depolarization. Defining the proarrhythmic potential as the duration of the vulnerable window, we found that hypothetical use-dependent class I drugs have a greater proarrhythmic potential than non-use-dependent drugs. CONCLUSIONS. The antiarrhythmic and proarrhythmic properties of pure sodium channel antagonists are both dependent on sodium channel availability. Consequently, the price for increased antiarrhythmic efficacy (suppressed premature ventricular contractions) is an increased proarrhythmic vulnerability to unsuppressed premature ventricular contractions. 
Comparison of chlorambucil and prednisone versus cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone as initial treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia: long-term follow-up of an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group randomized clinical trial. The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) conducted a study in which patients with advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were randomized between a regimen consisting of chlorambucil (30 mg/m2 orally day 1) and prednisone (80 mg orally days 1 to 5) (C + P) administered every 2 weeks and a more intensive regimen of cyclosphosphamide (300 mg/m2 orally days 1 to 5), vincristine (1.4 mg/m2 intravenously [IV] day 1), and prednisone (100 mg/m2 orally days 1 to 5) (CVP) given every 3 weeks. Treatment was continued for up to 18 months to maximal response. Of the 122 eligible patients, 60 received C + P, while 62 received CVP. With a median follow-up of 7 years, there were no significant differences in survival (4.8 v 3.9 years, P = .12), complete remission (CR) rate (25% v 23%; P = .83), or duration of response (2.0 v 1.9 years; P = .78) between C + P and CVP. Toxicity was modest despite the prolonged treatment. The long median survival of 4.1 years for stage III and IV patients is superior to that usually reported. This could stem from continuing treatment to maximal response rather than an increase in intensity of therapy. These results are comparable to those reported with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) therapy by other investigators. The data suggest that intermittent C + P administered to maximal response continues to be the standard treatment approach for advanced CLL. 
Impact of changing attitudes in carotid surgery on community hospital practice. In 1985, institutional guidelines for the evaluation and performance of carotid surgery were established in our community hospital. During the 5-year period from 1985 through 1989, 159 carotid reconstructions were done. There were four major strokes (3%), one eventually resulting in death, with the second death in this series from a myocardial infarction (mortality 1%). The combined mortality/major stroke morbidity incidence was 3%. Three transient ischemic attacks (2%) postoperatively cleared promptly without residua. During the latter 1980s, an increasing number of vascular surgeons were doing less carotid surgery. Monitoring institutional quality assurance and individual surgeon performance within the community hospital is becoming a reality. Our experience with institutional guidelines for the evaluation and conduct of carotid surgery, together with an assessment of results and ongoing individual surgeon performance, is presented. Maintaining acceptable morbidity and mortality statistics can be enhanced by having a plan for assessment, management, and concurrent review. 
Clonal analysis of T-cell deficiencies in autotransplant recipients. We have used limiting dilution culture methods to determine the frequency of mitogen-responsive T cells in peripheral blood of patients after bone marrow autotransplantation, and have compared their responsiveness to that of allotransplant recipients and normal controls. Autotransplant patients were found to have low responder cell frequencies in tests for lymphokine-secreting helper function, and for IL-2 dependent proliferator and cytotoxic function. Multiple regression analysis showed that function was lower in autotransplant patients than in allorecipients, and lower in male patients for all three functional assays. Patients with clinically significant infection tended to have lower proliferative function in both transplant groups and lower cytotoxic function in the allotransplant population. Graft-versus-host disease was associated with lower T-cell function, but was present only in the allotransplant group; therefore, it cannot account for the even lower levels of function observed in the autotransplant population. Because we observe deficits in T-cell regeneration in autotransplant recipients that are even more severe than in allorecipients, we postulate that cellular immunodeficiency after bone marrow transplantation may reflect limitations in thymic-dependent repopulation rather than an effect of genetic disparity between host and donor (eg, clinical or subclinical graft-versus-host). 
Necrotizing bronchial aspergillosis in a patient receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy for non-small cell lung carcinoma. We describe a case of necrotizing bronchial aspergillosis which developed after lobectomy following neoadjuvant chemotherapy in a 73-year-old woman with non-small cell lung cancer. The lesion was visualized and biopsied through FBS, which played a useful role for early diagnosis of this disease. Itraconazole therapy was effective and safe. 
Choriocarcinoma of the testis metastatic to the skin. A case of choriocarcinoma of the testis metastatic to the skin is reported. In this case report the primary tumor was first diagnosed by the histopathologic findings in the cutaneous biopsy of a single nodule that appeared on the chest, with both syncytiotrophoblastic and cytotrophoblastic cells in the metastatic solid tumor islands. Using peroxidase-antiperoxidase techniques, beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-HCG) was positive within the cytoplasm of syncytiotrophoblastic cells. The patient was treated with orchiectomy, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. With these measures there was a decrease of chorionic gonadotropin serum levels to normal limits and 2 years after this treatment there is no evidence of recurrence. 
Cor triatriatum dexter: recognition and percutaneous transluminal correction. Cor triatriatum dexter is a rare congenital anomaly in which an obstructive membrane is located in the right atrium. The detection usually occurs after the sequelae of systemic congestion, coagulopathy, and hepatic dysfunction have set in, leading up to a high surgical risk. A percutaneous balloon correction of cor triatriatum dexter in a patient with advanced right-sided congestive symptoms and hepatic dysfunction is presented. This efficacious method is an alternative to surgical correction and could be extended to the more common cor triatriatum sinistra. 
Renal cell carcinoma involving penis and testis: unusual initial presentations of metastatic disease. Solitary parenchymal metastases of renal cell carcinoma to the penis or testis are rare. We report 1 case of each: in one instance the patient presented with priapism and an asymptomatic primary tumor; in the other, the metastasis presented as an acute change in a long-standing hydrocele more than one year after nephrectomy. Both patients had either positive margins at resection or recurrence after resection of the metastasis. While long-term, disease-free survival has been reported after orchiectomy for isolated metastatic disease, penile involvement appears to carry a very poor prognosis. 
Intratumoral cytogenetic heterogeneity in a benign neoplasm. Cytogenetic findings are reported in a 64-year-old man who had a history of rapid growth of a mass in the left groin area. The histopathologic diagnosis of the tumor was consistent with that of a lipoma with atypia. Cytogenetic analysis was done on an incisional biopsy specimen. The initial biopsy specimen revealed, in addition to normal cells, three different clones: 46,XY,t(12;21)(q13;q21), 46,XY, t(2;12)(q11.2'1.2), t(19;20)(q13.1'3), and 47.XY,+ r. The subsequently excised specimen showed a normal male karyotype (46,XY) and a predominant clone with the karyotype, 47,XY,t(2;12)(q11.2'1.2),t(3;11)(p24'5), + r. One cell with 47,XY, + r was present. In addition, polyploid cells with large markers, rings, and a high frequency of telomeric associations were also observed. 
Possible involvement of inositol-lipid metabolism in malignant hyperthermia. Alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation may induce malignant hyperthermia (MH) in vivo. Consequently, we have investigated the effects of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine and, for comparison, the effects of the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol on inositol-lipid metabolism of malignant hyperthermia susceptible (MHS) and healthy control (MHN) swine. The experiments were performed on electrically stimulated (frequency 0.2 Hz) trabeculae isolated from the right ventricles of the hearts of MHS and MHN animals. After labelling with [3H]inositol for 6 h, different inositol phosphates were measured by high pressure liquid chromatography, including inositol 1-phosphate, inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (1,4,5-IP3) and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate. After stimulation with isoproterenol, the inositol phosphate content did not increase or vary between muscle from MHS and MHN animals. In contrast, all inositol phosphates increased after stimulation with phenylephrine in both muscle types, the effects being greater in MHS than in MHN, especially as regards 1,4,5-IP3 content. As 1,4,5-IP3, a presumed second messenger, has been shown to mobilize intracellular calcium, it is concluded that an enhanced alpha-adrenergic response is involved in the development of MH. 
Usefulness of high-frequency analysis of signal-averaged surface electrocardiograms in acute myocardial infarction before and after coronary thrombolysis for assessing coronary reperfusion. The incidence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram before and after coronary thrombolysis was studied in 54 patients with an acute myocardial infarction of less than or equal to 5 hours' duration and with an angiographically documented total occlusion of the infarct-related coronary artery on admission. A significant (p = 0.038) 50% relative reduction in the incidence of late potentials was observed in the group of 35 patients who underwent reperfusion: from 16 of 35 (46%) before to 8 of 35 (23%) at 120 minutes after the start of thrombolytic treatment. No significant reduction was seen in the 19 patients in whom thrombolysis was unsuccessful: from 8 of 19 (42%) before to 7 of 19 (37%) afterward. Despite successful recanalization, late potentials persisted or newly developed after thrombolytic therapy in 8 of 54 patients (15%). It is concluded that successful thrombolysis reduces the incidence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram but that the sensitivity and specificity of this finding are not high enough to allow reliable monitoring of coronary reperfusion at the bedside. 
The use of soap and water in two Bangladeshi communities: implications for the transmission of diarrhea. Efforts to reduce the incidence of diarrheal infections in which enteropathogens are endemic have focused on education about the importance of hand washing to interrupt transmission of such organisms. Since the effectiveness of health education depends on an understanding of the recipients' ideas and customs, we studied perceptions of cleanliness and the role of soap and hand washing in two poor Bangladeshi communities, one rural and one urban. We found that ideas about cleanliness generally are not based on germ theory; cleanliness is viewed in a larger, socioreligious context of purity vs. impurity. Washing serves both physical and spiritual needs and is performed according to defined patterns that may not effectively interrupt transmission of microorganisms. Soap is regarded as a cosmetic rather than an agent for removal of microorganisms. 
Transcatheter occlusion of pulmonary arterial circulation and collateral supply: failures, incidents, and complications. Failures and complications were analyzed retrospectively in 45 patients treated with embolotherapy or occlusion of pulmonary arterial circulation. Pulmonary arterial branches were occluded with steel coils in 19 patients with pulmonary arteriovenous malformations, 17 with hemoptysis of pulmonary artery (PA) origin, and one with massive parenchymal shunt. Bronchial arterial supply to the lung was embolized with small particles in eight cases of hemoptysis and systemic to pulmonary arterial antegrade shunt secondary to chronic thromboembolism. Asymptomatic incidents included catheterization failures, vascular damage, partial occlusion, partial recanalization of the thrombus, ectopic deposition of a coil, and delayed bacterial contamination of the thrombus. A few cases of transient clinical and radiologic signs of pulmonary infarction were observed after complete occlusion of the PA and bronchial artery embolization. This complication was never observed after complete occlusion of main right or left PA, inferior right or left PA, or segmental branches. The management and prevention of these complications, the role of bronchial arterial collateral pathways, and the importance of the site of PA occlusion in the development of pulmonary infarction are discussed. 
Effect of aspirin on heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty in men who have osteoarthrosis. The severity of heterotopic ossification was determined from the radiographs of eighty-three men in whom osteoarthrosis had been treated with a primary total hip arthroplasty with cement. The medical records of these patients were then reviewed, with the reviewer having no knowledge of the radiographic findings. A similar operative approach and technique had been used in all patients. There was no association between the amount of intraoperative loss of blood or the duration of the operation and the severity of formation of heterotopic bone. The over-all rate of occurrence of heterotopic ossification was 72 per cent. Of the fifty-eight patients who had received aspirin throughout their course in the hospital, two (3 per cent) had severe ectopic ossification (grade III or IV8). In contrast, twelve (48 per cent) of the twenty-five patients who had received no aspirin or in whom aspirin had been discontinued so that anticoagulation could be begun had severe heterotopic ossification. The difference in the severity of the ossification between the two groups is significant (p less than 0.0001). 
Inhibition of the metabolism of atrial natriuretic factor causes diuresis and natriuresis in chronic heart failure. Atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) is a peptide hormone secreted by the heart that is degraded in vivo by endopeptidase 24:11 (atriopeptidase). UK 69,578 is a novel atriopeptidase inhibitor that raises plasma levels of ANF in animals and normal volunteers, with associated diuresis and natriuresis. This study examines the effects of UK 69,578 in patients with mild heart failure. UK 69,578 was administered as an intravenous infusion over 20 min in a placebo-controlled, cross-over study to six patients with stable (NYHA Class 2) chronic heart failure. The atriopeptidase inhibitor was well tolerated and no side effects were encountered. Mean baseline plasma ANF was elevated at 88 pg/mL (normal less than 50), and increased 2- to 5-fold after UK 69,578 administration. Plasma ANF did not change significantly following placebo. There was a marked diuresis after UK 69,578 compared to placebo. Urinary sodium excretion doubled for 4 to 6 h, but there was no significant rise in potassium excretion. There was no increase in plasma active renin concentration during the study period. Noninvasive hemodynamic monitoring revealed no significant changes in heart rate, systemic arterial blood pressure, or echocardiographic left ventricular dimensions. However, invasive measurements using a Swan-Ganz catheter demonstrated falls in mean right atrial and pulmonary artery wedge pressures after UK 69,578. There was no change in cardiac output. Thus, inhibition of endopeptidase 24:11 by UK 69,578 results in significant elevation of plasma ANF, with associated diuresis, natriuresis and venodilatation. The compound was well tolerated in these patients with mild chronic heart failure. 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma in acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A clinical and pathologic study with results of treatment with radiation. Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma occurs frequently in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Seventeen patients with AIDS and biopsy-proven CNS lymphoma were treated with whole-brain radiation. At presentation, most patients were severely debilitated from previous AIDS-related illnesses. Patients generally had focal neurologic symptoms such as seizures and paralysis. Headaches and mental status changes, often noticed after hospital admission, seldom brought our patients to seek medical attention. Computed tomography (CT) scan showed low-density, contrast-enhancing, mass lesions with variable amounts of peritumor edema. Size, location, and pattern of contrast enhancement of the lesions varied. No specific pattern was seen that could be used to distinguish between CNS lymphoma, toxoplasmosis, or other CNS diseases that occur in patients with AIDS. Biopsy results showed angiocentric, high-grade, large cell tumors with frequent necrosis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed B-cell phenotype with small amounts of T-cells, presumably reactive. All patients received irradiation to the whole brain with parallel opposed fields. A variety of doses and treatment regimens were used. Mean survival was only 72 days. Survival was longer in patients with higher pretreatment Karnofsky scores. The correlation between dose and survival was not significant. At completion of therapy, most patients showed improvement in Karnofsky score and had partial improvement in neurologic symptoms. CNS lymphomas in patients with AIDS are responsive to radiation. Posttreatment CT scans showed regression of tumors. Autopsy examinations showed regression of tumors, but also showed concurrent CNS infections, AIDS encephalopathy, and radiation-induced changes within the normal CNS tissue. Opportunistic infections rather than cerebral herniation or uncontrolled lymphoma was the most common cause of death. 
Gradation of unstable angina based on a sensitive immunoassay for serum creatine kinase MB. A newly developed, highly sensitive immunoassay for creatine kinase MB isoenzyme was evaluated in 68 patients with or without different types of ischaemic heart disease. Patients were classified on the basis of clinical criteria in four groups: no ischaemic heart disease, stable angina, unstable angina, and acute myocardial infarction. Enzyme concentration in patients with stable angina was the same (even during exercise) as seen in the patients without ischaemic heart disease. Patients with unstable angina, however, could be divided into two groups. One group showed clear evidence of severe myocardial ischaemia by serial changes and higher mean values of creatine kinase MB up to 40 hours after the onset of symptoms, whereas in the remainder values were stable and resembled those seen in the patients without ischaemic heart disease. The changes in concentration correlated with signs of repetitive ischaemic episodes deduced from continuous ST segment monitoring during the first 24 hours after admission. These findings indicate that patients with unstable angina are a heterogenous group. In some, severe and prolonged ischaemia can be detected by a serological assay with high sensitivity. 
Is it time to use evoked potentials to predict outcome in comatose children and adults? OBJECTIVE: To determine the value of multimodality-evoked potential recordings in predicting outcome in comatose children. DESIGN: Prospective series and literature review. SETTING: Pediatric ICU in a university hospital. PATIENTS: Forty-one children with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of less than 8, who were admitted to the pediatric ICU between 1984 and 1989. INTERVENTIONS: Forty-one patients underwent brainstem auditory-evoked potential testing within 72 hrs of admission. Of these patients, 37 also had somatosensory-evoked potential testing at the same time. Four patients did not receive somatosensory-evoked potential testing for various nonmedical reasons. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Multimodality-evoked potential recordings were used to predict outcome in these comatose children. Outcomes were categorized as bad (death or chronic vegetative state) or good (all other outcomes). Survivor outcomes were determined at discharge and on subsequent follow-up visits from 1 to 3 yrs later. There were no false pessimistic predictions, and two false optimistic predictions in this series. A comprehensive literature review of coma outcome prediction, using multimodality-evoked potential recordings, revealed 20 series with 982 additional patients in whom the predictive errors of false optimism and false pessimism could be determined. Five cases of false pessimism and 99 cases of false optimism were identified in the 982 additional patients. If neonates are excluded, the false pessimism number is reduced to three. CONCLUSIONS: A bad outcome can be reliably predicted using multimodality-evoked potential recordings with little chance of a false pessimistic prediction. The acceptable error of false optimism occurs frequently, since patients often die of progressive neurologic and nonneurologic problems that may or may not be present at the time of the evoked potential recordings. Thus, in comatose children, multimodality-evoked potential recordings are a useful adjunct to clinical examination and other diagnostic aids in predicting outcome and in making decisions regarding the degree of intervention to offer. 
Prevention of chronic erosive streptococcal cell wall-induced arthritis in rats by treatment with a monoclonal antibody against the T cell antigen receptor alpha beta. Rats treated with an mAb (R73) against the TCR-alpha beta failed to develop chronic persistent arthritis after injection of streptococcal cell walls. Histologically, R73 mAb-treated rats had mild hyperplasia of synovial lining cells and minimal destruction of cartilage. In contrast, control-treated animals developed marked pannus formation, with pronounced infiltration of mononuclear cells and severe destruction of cartilage and subchondral bone. The preventive effect of R73 mAb on streptococcal cell wall-induced arthritis was associated with the marked depletion of alpha beta + T cells by R73 mAb. These results indicate that T cells play a crucial role in chronic erosive streptococcal cell wall-induced arthritis. 
Hypertrophy of nodules of Arantius and aortic insufficiency: pathophysiology and repair. Aortic insufficiency (AI) due to fibrosis and thickening of the nodules of Arantius in the otherwise normal aortic valve was found in 11 adults (age range, 41 to 65 years) between 1976 and 1988. Nine had concomitant mitral stenosis; 2 had coronary artery disease. In 6 patients AI was graded 3+ or greater; in 5 it was less than 3+. Correction of AI and restoration of cuspid flexibility and apposition by shaving the hypertrophied nodules was accomplished in all, with postrepair AI graded as 1+ or less. There was one hospital death, a patient who had prior mitral operation. Mean follow-up was 68 +/- 56 months. Only 1 patient had late (6 years) recurrent serious (3+) AI. Nine continued to have 1+ or less AI, based on echocardiography or catheterization (n = 6) or on physical examination performed at a mean of 74 months. We conclude that thickening of the nodules of Arantius may cause AI. Long-term correction can be accomplished by sculpturing of the involved cusps. 
The consistency of pulse frequencies and pulse patterns of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) used by chronic pain patients. This study records the consistency of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) pulse frequency and pulse pattern used by 13 chronic patients over a 1 year period. The results show that patients prefer specific pulse frequencies and pulse patterns unique to the individual and that they turn to such frequencies and patterns on subsequent treatment sessions. Pulse frequencies and pulse patterns were not related to the cause and site of pain, a finding consistent with previous study in this laboratory. This observation, coupled with the large variability in pulse frequencies and pulse patterns used between individuals, implies that patients prefer such frequencies and patterns for reasons of comfort which may not be related to mechanisms specific to the pain system. 
Tuberculosis of the pancreas: report of three cases. Three cases of pancreatic tuberculosis are described. The first patient presented with abdominal pain, weight loss, anorexia, vomiting, hepatomegaly, and mass in the head of the pancreas, on computerized tomographic (CT) scan. The second patient presented with low grade fever, anorexia, and weight loss, and was investigated for gallbladder disease. The third patient presented with obstructive jaundice and mass lesion in the head of the pancreas. Two patients underwent laparotomy for suspected pancreatic tumors. The findings of pancreatic disease was incidental during laparotomy in the second patient. The histopathology revealed caseating granuloma in all of them. The first patient responded well to treatment, and the second patient stopped treatment after 2 months and is well. The third patient is being followed. If malignancy can be ruled out, tuberculosis should be considered in relevant geographic areas, and a tissue diagnosis should be made. 
Myocardial infarction: assessment with an intravascular MR contrast medium. Work in progress. The effect of a new intravascular magnetic resonance (MR) contrast medium (gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid [DTPA] polylysine) was evaluated in acute, subacute, and chronic myocardial infarctions in rats. Signal intensity (SI) was measured before and after intravenous administration of Gd-DTPA polylysine. Before administration of contrast material, chronic infarctions had lower SI than normal myocardium. With Gd-DTPA polylysine, three zones were identified in acute and subacute stages of myocardial infarction, but in the chronic stage, images demonstrated two zones. In acute and subacute infarctions, Gd-DTPA polylysine produced greater enhancement (over 60 minutes) in the peri-infarction zone than in the normal or infarcted myocardium. In chronic infarctions, Gd-DTPA polylysine had no discernible effect on the SI of the central infarction zone. Overall, it caused no significant hemodynamic effects. MR imaging with Gd-DTPA polylysine produced differential tissue enhancement in myocardial infarctions, which varied according to the age of the infarction. 
Aluminium sulphate in water in north Cornwall and outcome of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE--To determine whether the excess aluminum sulphate accidentally added to the local water supply in north Cornwall in July 1988 had an adverse effect on the outcome of pregnancies. DESIGN--Outcomes of all singleton pregnancies in the affected area at the time of the incident (n = 92) were compared with those in two control groups: pregnancies in this area completed before the incident (n = 68) and pregnancies in a neighbouring area (n = 193). SUBJECTS--Mothers in the three groups, among whom there were 13 miscarriages, five terminations of pregnancy, and 336 live births. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Fetal and perinatal loss, birth weight, gestation, obstetric complications, neonatal condition, and congenital defects. RESULTS--Among 88 pregnancies in women exposed to excess aluminum sulphate there was no excess of perinatal deaths (n = 0), low birthweight (n = 3), preterm delivery (n = 4), or severe congenital malformations (n = 0). There was, however, an increased rate of talipes in exposed fetuses (four cases, one control; p = 0.01). CONCLUSIONS--Because of small numbers it is not possible to say that high doses of aluminum sulphate are safe in pregnancy, but there is no evidence from this study of major problems apparent at birth. 
Acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema treated with mechanical ventilation. Factors determining in-hospital mortality. We reviewed 88 episodes of cardiogenic pulmonary edema (CPE) treated with mechanical ventilation to define the clinical features that predict in-hospital mortality. Fifty-six patients survived to hospital discharge. APACHE II scores were not helpful in prediction. Multiple logistic regression models to predict outcome were developed using variables present at the time of intubation and 24 hours later. The model at the time of intubation indicated mortality was related to systolic blood pressure less than 130 mm Hg, the presence of anterior myocardial infarction, use of calcium channel blockers, age, and absence of prior hospitalization for CPE. A model using additional variables available 24 hours later showed that mortality was related only to the need for vasopressor medication at 24 hours, and systolic blood pressure at intubation less than 130 mm Hg. The predictive power of these models was confirmed by applying them to 46 additional patients. The variables contained in these models suggest that the prognosis of patients with CPE treated with mechanical ventilation depends primarily on the severity of acute left ventricular injury. Variables relating the degree of respiratory failure, however, were not predictive of mortality. These multiple logistic regression models provide a means to compare patients with CPE for quality assessment purposes and for studies of treatment regimens, and may also provide information useful to patient and family counseling regarding the value of continued aggressive intensive care. 
Intra- and interindividual variability of glucose tolerance in an elderly population. The intra- and interindividual variability of the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and other risk factors was investigated in 237 subjects, aged 64-87, examined annually in the period 1971-1975. Coefficients of intraindividual variation (CVa) were calculated from individual regressions on time. The lowest CVa was found for the summary index including fasting glucose (area under the curve, AUC): 10.0 +/- 4.9%. For fasting and 30, 60, and 120 min glucose the values ranged from 12 to 18%. The CVa's were not associated with age, gender, drug use, and disease prevalence, and may also be applied to other populations. The reliability coefficient depended on the prevalence of diabetes in the population and was higher than observed in younger populations. The highest reliability coefficient was observed for AUC: 0.81. For the combined information of OGTT, reflected by AUC or by classification according to WHO criteria, the variability was comparable to that of other cardiovascular risk factors such as serum total cholesterol. 
Tolerance to intravenous nitroglycerin in patients with congestive heart failure: role of increased intravascular volume, neurohumoral activation and lack of prevention with N-acetylcysteine To better understand the mechanism of nitrate tolerance in patients with congestive heart failure, 13 patients received a 24 h infusion of nitroglycerin (1.5 micrograms/kg body weight per min) with or without N-acetylcysteine (225 mg/kg per 24 h). The infusions were separated by a 24 h nitrate-free interval. By the end of the nitroglycerin infusion, mean arterial pressure had returned to baseline values and there was a significant increase in ventricular filling pressures and systemic vascular resistance compared with values after 1 h of treatment. The simultaneous infusion of N-acetylcysteine had no effect on these changes. Although a strict fluid restriction of 1.5 liters/day was maintained for 1 week before and throughout the study, after 24 h of nitroglycerin infusion there was a significant and similar degree of hemodilution whether nitroglycerin was infused alone (9.1 +/- 4.3%) or with N-acetylcysteine (8.7 +/- 4.1%). This hemodilution corresponded to an increase in intravascular volume of 745 +/- 382 ml, most of which occurred during the 1st h. Plasma renin activity increased and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide decreased during the infusion. The results of this study suggest that nitrate tolerance is multifactorial. In addition to the previously described pharmacologic tolerance to the effect of nitroglycerin on vascular smooth muscle, a capillary fluid shift from the extravascular to intravascular space appears to be involved, especially during the 1st h of the infusion. A third mechanism, reflex neurohumoral activation, also seems to contribute to the genesis of nitroglycerin tolerance. 
A new provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia. A new provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia is described, based upon the demonstration of a fall in the intramural pH of the small bowel after introduction of a test meal into the stomach. Intramural pH (pHI) is determined indirectly by tonometry, utilizing a tonometer passed per os. Postoperative assessment of revascularization procedures is also possible by the same technique. Application of the test in an 84-yr-old woman showed good correlation between a preoperative fall in jejunal intramural pH and abdominal pain, and the absence of a fall postoperatively after successful revascularization. 
High dietary linoleic acid affects the fatty acid compositions of individual phospholipids from tissues of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar): association with stress susceptibility and cardiac lesion. For 16 wk Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) post-smolts were fed practical-type diets that contained either fish oil (FO) or sunflower oil (SO) as the lipid component. Both diets contained adequate (n-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). All the phospholipids of heart and liver from SO-fed fish had increased levels of 18:2(n-6), 20:2(n-6) and 20:3(n-6); phosphatidyl choline (PC) and phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE) also had increased 20:4(n-6). There was a general decrease in 20:5(n-3) in the phospholipids, reflected in an increase in the 20:4(n-6)/20:5(n-3) ratio, especially in PC and PE. The fatty acid compositions of phospholipids from brain and retina were much less affected by dietary linoleate than those of heart and liver. Fish fed SO developed severe heart lesions that caused thinning of the ventricular wall and muscle necrosis. The fish fed SO also were susceptible to a transportation-induced shock syndrome that caused 30% mortality. These results establish that a diet with a low (n-3)/(n-6) ratio can cause changes in fatty acid metabolism that are deleterious to the health of salmonid fish, especially when subjected to stress. 
Molecular heterogeneity and cellular localization of carboxypeptidase H in the islets of Langerhans. The intracellular distribution and molecular heterogeneity of carboxypeptidase H was studied in rat insulinoma tissue and isolated islets of Langerhans by a combination of immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, subcellular fractionation, and immunoblotting analyses. Immunofluorescence microscopy of islets demonstrated the presence of carboxypeptidase H in both insulin-containing B cells and glucagon-containing A cells. Quantitative ultrastructural analyses of islet B cells indicated that the enzyme was concentrated in mature insulin secretory granules, clathrin-coated condensing granules, and to a lesser extent the Golgi apparatus. Carboxypeptidase H activity was localized principally to secretory granule subfractions of insulinoma tissue, where it was present for the major part (70%) as a form which is readily solubilizable at pH values prevailing in the granule interior (5.5). This species migrated as a diffuse band of 53-57 kilodaltons (kDa) on immunoblot analysis using antisera raised against the purified native enzyme. In contrast, the insoluble form which was associated with the granule membrane at pH 5.5, migrated as a relatively compact band of 55-57 kDa. Carboxypeptidase H activity was also present in subcellular fractions which contained Golgi membranes together with elements of the endoplasmic reticulum, and in a low density secretory granule fraction which may represent immature granules. The enzyme in these compartments, like the granule membrane species, migrated as a compact 55-57 kDa band on immunoblots. Two-dimensional electrophoretic immunoblot analysis of secretory granules suggested that both membrane and soluble forms of the enzyme were glycoproteins and that the terminal glycosylation was similar in both instances. Antiserum raised against the deduced C-terminal 11 amino acids of the cloned carboxypeptidase H sequence recognized the 55-57 kDa membrane component in granules but did not react with the 53-57 kDa soluble species. A major difference between the soluble and membrane forms therefore appears to be a structural modification or proteolytic removal of the C-terminal domain in the trans-Golgi or early secretory granule compartment. The concept that proteolysis is involved is further supported by the observation that the relative proportion of the high and low mol wt forms of the enzyme in different subcellular fractions correlated with that of proinsulin and insulin, respectively. The membrane association of the 55-57 kDa form of carboxypeptidase H is disrupted at pH values of 9 and is dependent on ionic strength. This further suggests that the C-terminus of the protein may have an important role in the sorting or concentration of the enzyme in vesicular elements of the regulated pathway of secretion. 
Relation of stenosis morphology and clinical presentation to the procedural results of directional coronary atherectomy BACKGROUND. Directional coronary atherectomy has recently become available to treat coronary stenoses. This study was performed to determine the relation of patient characteristics and stenosis morphology to procedural outcome with directional coronary atherectomy to gain insight into which patients might be best treated with this device. METHODS AND RESULTS. Four hundred stenoses from 378 patients consecutively treated at six major referral institutions were analyzed. Angiographic data were assessed at a central angiographic laboratory using standardized morphological criteria and computer-assisted quantitative dimensional analyses. Procedural success was achieved in 87.8% of stenoses, and major ischemic complications (death, myocardial infarction, and emergency bypass surgery) occurred in 6.3% of patients. Lesion success and complications were closely correlated with recognized modified American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force lesion morphological criteria. Observed for type A stenoses were 93% success and 3% complication rates; for type B1 stenoses, 88% success and 6% complication rates; and for type B2 stenoses, 75% success and 13% complication rates, respectively. There were too few type C stenoses treated to analyze. Furthermore, multivariate testing demonstrated stenosis angulation (multivariate p less than 0.001), proximal tortuosity (p less than 0.001), decreased preatherectomy minimum lumen dimension (p = 0.032), and calcification (p = 0.041) to correlate independently with adverse outcome and complex, probably thrombus-associated stenoses to have a favorable outcome (p = 0.055). Operator experience (p = 0.020) and a history of restenosis (p = 0.022) also favorably influenced outcome. CONCLUSIONS. The procedural outcome of directional coronary atherectomy is highly associated with coronary stenosis morphology. Furthermore, after appropriate stratification for morphology and clinical presentation, overall atherectomy procedural outcome may be similar to that achieved with coronary angioplasty. However, specific subsets of patients may have relatively better outcome with either atherectomy or balloon angioplasty. 
Through a looking glass. A new technique to demonstrate directional hypokinesia in unilateral neglect. A line cancellation task was performed by right brain-damaged patients with neglect in two response conditions. The task was presented either in normal view or through a 90 degree angle mirror with direct view prevented. The latter decouples the direction of visual attention and of arm movement. In the mirror condition, 4 of 18 patients cancelled lines only in right hemispace which means that they directed their visual attention to the left but failed to execute movements towards contralateral hemispace--what has been termed directional hypokinesia. In contrast, 10 patients cancelled lines only in left hemispace in the mirror condition, which accords better with attention-representation deficit hypotheses. Our results support a division of the neglect syndrome according to whether perceptual or premotor deficits are predominant. 
Malignant peritoneal mesothelioma in childhood with long-term survival. A diffuse, well-differentiated, malignant peritoneal mesothelioma (MPM) developed in a nine-year-old girl. She received limited chemotherapy and radiation therapy and is alive and well without clinical evidence of disease 109 months after diagnosis. The neoplastic cells stained immunohistochemically for cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen but were unreactive with B72.3, anti-carcinoembryonic antigen, and anti-Leu-M1. Ultrastructurally, the tumor cells had abundant desmosomes, numerous tonofilament bundles, and variable-length microvilli. These findings confirm the mesothelial nature of the cells. Features consistent with malignancy included DNA aneuploidy by flow cytometric analysis and diffuse peritoneal involvement. The three previously described survivors with MPM were also premenarchal girls. Some MPMs in premenarchal girls have an indolent biologic behavior similar to that of low-grade peritoneal serous neoplasia or well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma in adult women. 
Valve-related complications with the Hancock I porcine bioprosthesis. A twelve- to fourteen-year follow-up study. Valve-related morbidity and mortality after heart valve replacement with the Hancock I porcine bioprosthesis has been retrospectively analyzed. From June 1974 through December 1976, 253 Hancock I bioprostheses (150 mitral and 103 aortic) were inserted in 220 selected patients who survived the operation and had follow-up until June 1989 (mean follow-up 13.5 years, with an accumulative follow-up of 2956.4 patient-years). One hundred seventeen patients had mitral valve replacement, 70 had aortic valve replacement, and 33 had combined mitral and aortic valve replacement. There were 27 thromboembolic events. The probability of being free from thromboembolism at 14 years was 81.0% +/- 7.4% for the mitral valve replacement group, 85.4% +/- 6.7% for the aortic group, and 67.1% +/- 18.4% for the mitral-aortic group. Fifteen episodes of prosthetic valve endocarditis occurred. There were 10 instances of nonstructural dysfunction (paravalvular leaks) in seven mitral valves (4.6%) and in three aortic valves (2.9%). One hundred twenty-two bioprostheses in 106 patients resulted in structural deterioration. The probability of freedom from structural deterioration at 14 years was 37.2% +/- 3.9% for the mitral group, 43.9% +/- 7.1% for the aortic group, and 30.1% +/- 8.9% for the mitral-aortic group. The logistic regression analysis between age at the time of operation and bioprosthetic life (structural deterioration-free period) demonstrates a linear regression curve (r = 0.53). There were 56 late deaths (27 patients died at reoperation). The actuarial survival rate (including hospital mortality) at 14 years was 57.2% +/- 5.4% for the entire series, with no statistically significant difference between groups. The probability of remaining free from valve-related morbidity and mortality at 14 years was 16.7% +/- 4.8% for the mitral group, 20.8% +/- 6.2% for the aortic group, and 14.0% +/- 7.0% for the mitral-aortic group. The long-term results of this series show that the clinical performance of the Hancock I porcine valve appears satisfactory during the first 6 years. The behavior of this bioprosthesis at 14 years' follow-up changes drastically, because only a minor group of patients is free from valve-related complications, justifying the restriction of its use for selected patients. 
Endothelial cell seeding. Endothelial cell seeding is the transplantation of vascular endothelial cells to denuded vascular surfaces. Seeding theoretically reduces the probability of graft or vessel thrombosis and of neointimal fibrous hyperplasia. Thus far, clinical seeding trials disclosed modest improvements in patency and the development of hyperplastic anastomotic lesions in failed grafts. Seeding inefficiency theoretically contributes to anastomotic hyperplasia. The inefficiency is linked to two steps in the seeding process, namely harvesting and cell retention. Of these, cell retention on the seeded surface is the more critical. Priorities for future research should be set first on the retention of seeded endothelium in vitro and second on improved and standardized methods of cell harvesting. 
Production and characterization of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte clones derived from B16-F10 murine melanoma. The adoptive transfer of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in conjunction with recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) for the treatment of advanced cancer has recently been under intense investigation. Despite extensive research, the precise surface phenotype of TIL remains to be fully defined. To elucidate this unsolved problem, we established 11 TIL clones derived from rIL-2 expanded TIL obtained from B16-F10 murine melanoma tumors. These clones could be divided phenotypically into four groups: CD8 (+) T-cell clones, natural killer (NK)-cell clones, NK-like CD8 (+) T-cell clones, and double negative T-cell clones. Functionally, CD8 (+) T-cell clones demonstrated specific cytotoxic activity against B16-F10 melanoma cells, whereas NK-cell clones and double negative T-cell clones demonstrated only non-specific cytotoxic activity against NK-sensitive YAC-1 cells. NK-like CD8 (+) T-cell clones showed dual cytotoxic activity. Clones T1 [a CD8 (+) T-cell clone] and T2 [an NK-like CD8 (+) T-cell clone] which had cytotoxic activity against B16-F10 melanoma cells, demonstrated a proliferative response against immunoblotted B16-F10 melanoma antigens, whereas clones T7 (an NK-cell clone) and T10 (a double negative T-cell clone), which had no cytotoxic activity against B16-F10 cells, demonstrated no proliferative response against them. Winn assays revealed that only the CD8 (+) T-cell clone (T1) had an antitumor effect in vivo, whereas the double negative T-cell clone (T10) and NK-like CD8 (+) T-cell clone (T2) stimulated tumor growth in vivo. Adoptive immunotherapy using tumor-specific, highly cytotoxic TIL clones may represent a useful future immunotherapeutic option for the treatment of human tumors. 
Symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following tumor resection: report of two cases. The authors report two cases of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following resection of an acoustic neuroma and a left sphenoid wing meningioma. Vascular spasm was documented by transcranial Doppler and angiography studies. Both patients responded to hypervolemic therapy. Possible mechanisms contributing to this rare complication are discussed. 
Colonic epithelial dysplasia or carcinoma in a regional group of patients with ulcerative colitis of more than 15 years duration. Colonoscopic screening for neoplasia was performed in a regional group of ulcerative colitis patients with a disease duration of greater than or equal to 15 years. A total of 121 patients, aged less than 80 years, were invited to participate, of whom 100 (83%) accepted colonoscopy, including biopsies in 15 standard locations of the entire colon, plus additional biopsies from all visible lesions. Unequivocal dysplasia was found in one patient with extensive colitis and a disease duration of 31 years. A polyp with highly differentiated adenocarcinoma was found in the sigmoid colon of a patient with intermittent rectum involvement, 37 years after the ulcerative colitis diagnosis had been made. Biopsy specimens from the remaining 98 patients showed no signs of dysplasia or cancer. Thus the frequency of pre-malignant or malignant changes is very low compared with the results of similar studies, and the rationale for general colonoscopic surveillance programmes for such patients is open to question. 
The role of alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes as tumor markers for testicular germ cell tumors. The role of serum alkaline phosphatase as a tumor marker for testicular germ cell disease was investigated in 26 patients with testicular seminoma and 13 with nonseminomatous germ cell testis tumors. Placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme was elevated in 50% of the stage I seminoma patients and in all patients with stages II to III disease. In addition, liver (tissue unspecific) alkaline phosphatase was elevated in 10 and 83% of the patients, respectively. Lactic dehydrogenase and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-HCG) were detected in 50 to 60% of the patients with stage I seminoma. By combining placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme, lactic dehydrogenase and beta-HCG, 75% of the stage I and 100% of the stages II and III seminoma patients could be identified correctly. Placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme in serum also occurred with nonseminomatous germ cell tumor but less frequently, while liver alkaline phosphatase was not detected at all. Thus, placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme and liver alkaline phosphatase were predominantly determined in the serum of patients with seminoma. In studies of tumor tissues from 31 of these patients, those with normal serum placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme levels had significantly lower tissue placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme levels than patients with elevated serum levels (p less than 0.01). Seminoma tissues showed significantly higher levels of placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme and liver alkaline phosphatase than nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (p less than 0.01), explaining the infrequent elevation of serum placental alkaline phosphatase-like enzyme and liver alkaline phosphatase found in patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumors. 
Hepatitis B virus DNA in cervicovaginal cells. Hepatitis B virus DNA sequences were detected in seven (12.1%) of 58 cervicovaginal cell specimens that were obtained from pregnant women by polymerase DNA amplification assay. The presence of hepatitis B virus DNA in these cells raises the possibility that infected cervicovaginal cells may be a source through which hepatitis B virus can be transmitted from infected mothers to their newborns and between heterosexual partners. 
Noninvasive determination of left ventricular output and wall stress in volume overload and in myocardial disease by cine magnetic resonance imaging. The current study used cine magnetic resonance imaging to determine the effect of increasing severity of valvular regurgitation on systolic wall stress and to demonstrate that wall stress was disproportionately increased in relation to the severity of regurgitation in patients with myocardial disease. A total of 39 patients with predominantly mitral (n = 22) or aortic (n = 17) regurgitation with (n = 13) and without (n = 26) myocardial disease and 10 normal volunteers were examined with cine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 1.5 T. Left ventricular (LV) cardiac output (CO) and peak systolic (PS) wall stress (WS) and end-systolic (ES) WS were calculated from blood pressure recordings, carotid pulse tracings, and wall thickness (h) and diameter (D) measurements obtained from cine MRI. Patients were classified into three degrees of severity according to their LV regurgitant volume (RV). Myocardial disease was defined by an ejection fraction (EF) of less than 40%. Mean LV EF was 61 +/- 3% in normal volunteers, 64 +/- 3% in patients with regurgitation, and 25 +/- 2% in patients with myocardial disease. LV CO was directly related to RV in patients without myocardial disease, whereas it was disproportionately low in relation to RV in patients with myocardial disease. PS WS was significantly higher in severe mitral and/or aortic regurgitation compared with moderate, mild, and no mitral and/or aortic regurgitation. Compared with the degree of regurgitation, PS WS was disproportionately higher in patients with myocardial disease. Thus LV CO and WS rise progressively with increasing severity of regurgitation. Disproportionately high systolic WS relative to RV indicates the presence of myocardial disease. 
QRS interval fails to predict coronary disease incidence. The Framingham Study. The Framingham Study cohort of 5209 white men and women was examined to determine the long-term incidence of manifestations of new coronary heart disease as a function of QRS interval on subjects' baseline electrocardiograms (recorded at the 9th biennial examination). Over 18 years of follow-up, age-adjusted incidence of myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and coronary death appeared unrelated to baseline QRS prolongation in both sexes, by Cox regression. Subjects with left bundle-branch block fared no worse than those with right pattern. These relations held whether or not subjects with baseline electrocardiographic abnormalities other than intraventricular block were excluded from consideration. In sum, QRS duration is an unimportant predictor of coronary disease in this Framingham population. 
Membranous nephropathy related to hepatitis B virus in adults. BACKGROUND. The natural course of adult hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related membranous nephropathy in areas where HBV infection is endemic (characterized by vertical and horizontal transmission of HBV in early childhood) has not been fully defined. METHODS. We evaluated the clinical features, pathological findings, serologic profiles, therapeutic responses, and prognoses of 21 patients with adult-onset HBV-related membranous nephropathy. The patients were followed for a mean of 60 months (range, 12 to 108). Only patients with evidence of glomerular capillary deposition of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) in a renal-biopsy specimen were included. RESULTS. The clinical features and serologic studies suggested that the patients had acquired chronic HBV infection in early childhood; moreover, other causes of membranous nephropathy had been excluded. All were seropositive for hepatitis B surface antigen and had high titers of antibody to hepatitis B core antigen at first clinical presentation. HBeAg was detected in the serum of 17 patients (81 percent), yet only 3 had even slightly increased plasma alanine aminotransferase levels. The clinical response to therapy with interferon alfa was disappointing; only one of the five patients treated had a complete remission with seroconversion to antibody to HBeAg. Contrary to reports of studies in children, spontaneous remission of the nephrotic syndrome or proteinuria was uncommon in the adults with HBV-related membranous nephropathy whom we studied. Proteinuria and HBV antigenemia persisted in untreated patients. During the follow-up period, 29 percent of the patients had progressive renal failure and 10 percent required maintenance dialysis therapy. CONCLUSIONS. The course of HBV-related membranous nephropathy in adults in areas where HBV is endemic is not benign. Regardless of treatment, the disease has a slowly but relentlessly progressive clinical course in approximately one third of patients. 
Once-daily fosinopril in the treatment of hypertension. This multicenter, dose-ranging study evaluated the antihypertensive effectiveness of once-daily administration of fosinopril sodium in 220 patients with supine diastolic blood pressure of 95-115 mm Hg. After a 4-week placebo period, patients were randomly assigned to double-blind therapy with either placebo or 10, 40, or 80 mg fosinopril once daily for 4 weeks. If treatment goals were not met, chlorthalidone 25 mg/day was added for weeks 5 to 8. Thereafter, patients could enter the long-term, open-label phase and receive 10-80 mg/day fosinopril plus chlorthalidone, if needed. After 4 weeks of monotherapy, the average decreases in supine diastolic blood pressure were 9% (10 mg), 11.5% (40 mg), and 12.5% (80 mg) compared with 6% in the placebo group. After 8 weeks, the average decreases, with or without diuretic therapy, were 12.5-18.2%, compared with 10.8% with placebo. Blood pressure continued to be well controlled, and the patients showed no evidence of tachyphylaxis or tolerance through 12-15 months of treatment. Fosinopril was well tolerated. During the short-term phase, no patient withdrew because of adverse events possibly related to fosinopril; during the long-term phase, nine of 148 patients (6.1%) withdrew for that reason. In patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, once-daily fosinopril (40 and 80 mg) provided significant antihypertensive effects with or without diuretic therapy. The 10 mg dose was effective in some patients and may be considered a starting dose. 
The management of IIB osteosarcoma. Experience from 1976 to 1985. From 1976 to 1985, 75 IIB osteosarcomas have been treated out of a total of 98 osteosarcomas at the authors' institution. Because of the effective chemotherapy including high-dose methotrexate administered during this time period, the surgical management changed, and only ten patients out of the 75 IIB osteosarcomas required an amputation. The overall result of 76.7% of disease-free, three-year survival was equally distributed regardless of the surgical procedure. Endoprosthesis, resection with or without grafts, and rotationplasties, as well as amputations, revealed similar results. No negative influence from the limb-sparing surgery could be observed. 
Appendicitis in cystic fibrosis. Appendicitis is said to be uncommon and difficult to diagnose in cystic fibrosis. The clinical and radiological features in nine patients with cystic fibrosis who had appendicitis were studied. All but one of the patients had an appendiceal abscess at surgery. Four patients had a delay in diagnosis of greater than three days before the correct diagnosis was made. This delay may have been due to a more indolent presentation or because these patients were initially considered to have distal intestinal obstruction syndrome. Appendicitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis if a contrast enema demonstrates extrinsic compression of the caecum. Ultrasound, computed tomography, and gallium scans were found to be of limited help in our series. 
Dietary omega-3 fatty acids decrease mortality and Kupffer cell prostaglandin E2 production in a rat model of chronic sepsis. We tested the hypothesis that substitution of omega-3 fat for dietary omega-6 fat would reduce mortality and decrease Kupffer cell prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in a rat model of chronic sepsis. Rats were fed via gastrostomy for 12 days with isonitrogenous, isocaloric diets containing 15% of calories as either safflower oil (omega-6) or a 10:1 mixture of menhaden oil (omega-3) and safflower oil. After five days of feeding, animals received an intra-abdominal abscess of defined bacterial content. Survivors were killed on post-laparotomy day 6 in conjunction with liver perfusion and protease liver digestion for Kupffer cell isolation. Kupffer cell PGE2 production was measured by radioimmunoassay after 18 hours of cell culture and again after stimulation with 0 LPS, 10 ng/ml LPS, and 10 micrograms/LPS. Mortality was decreased in menhaden oil-fed animals compared with safflower oil-fed animals (16% vs. 35%). Kupffer cell PGE2 production was decreased in menhaden oil-fed animals at 18 hours (354 +/- 54 vs. 570 +/- 95 pg/0.1 ml; p = 0.09) and after stimulation with 10 micrograms/ml LPS (140 +/- 41 vs. 288 +/- 45 pg/0.1 ml; p = 0.03) compared with safflower oil-fed animals. 
Abdominal desmoids: CT findings in 25 patients. Desmoids are histologically benign but locally aggressive fibrous tumors. Although overall they are rare lesions, they are a common manifestation of Gardner syndrome. We retrospectively reviewed clinical records and CT scans of 25 patients with abdominal desmoids. The number, location, and CT characteristics of the lesions were recorded for each patient. Tumors were solitary in 72% of patients and multiple in 28%. Fifty percent were located in the abdominal wall, 41% in the mesentery, and 9% in the retroperitoneum. More than two thirds of the lesions had well-defined borders, with the remainder displaying an infiltrative outer margin. The majority of tumors had attenuation values equal to (47%) or greater than (41%) the attenuation of muscle on contrast-enhanced CT scans. Complications attributable to the desmoid were commonly detectable on CT (hydronephrosis occurred in 36% and small-bowel obstruction in 20%). Our results detail the spectrum of CT findings and complications caused by abdominal desmoids. 
Adrenaline injection for endoscopic haemostasis in non-variceal upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Over a 30-month period, 53 patients with actively bleeding non-variceal lesions of the oesophagus, stomach or duodenum were treated by endoscopic injection of 1/10,000 adrenaline. Initial haemostasis was obtained in 50 cases, and permanent haemostasis in 44. Emergency surgery for bleeding was required in nine patients overall, and there were four deaths. All lesions requiring surgery were located on the posterior wall of the duodenum or the lesser curve of the stomach, and all but one had evidence of an exposed arterial vessel. Adrenaline injection is an effective, safe and simple method of endoscopic haemostasis. 
Professional mammographic quality assessment program for a community hospital. The evaluation of mammographic interpretations is a difficult challenge for a professional quality assessment program. As most images are read by a single observer and pathologic proof is obtained only if prompted by the report or if clinical symptoms warrant surgical intervention, it is difficult to construct a meaningful quality assessment program. The authors designed a program on the basis of a mammographic coding system that allows both individual physicians and practice groups to be evaluated. The program examines mammographic reports to determine the consistency of reporting by each physician and by the entire group. In addition, the program facilitated periodic evaluation of physicians with use of test cases. The coding system provided an easy method of correlating the mammographic reports with pathology reports from biopsy specimens, allowing a more thorough examination of possible systematic errors in the evaluation of the examinations, as well as enabling calculation of the positive predictive value for the diagnosis of cancer. The professional quality assessment program can be easily implemented in a busy clinical setting to evaluate whether mammograms were read consistently and "correctly" and to provide a method of continuing education for the physicians. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the gastrointestinal tract in a patient with neurofibromatosis. Malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of the gastrointestinal tract is extremely rare. A case of MFH of the colon associated with neurofibromatosis is presented. MFH is a high-grade soft-tissue sarcoma of fibroblast cell origin with a strong propensity for metastasis and recurrence. Immunochemical markers help to differentiate MFH from other sarcomas. The most successful treatment of MFH is surgical extirpation. Adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy have not been definitively shown to be of value. 
Clinical follow-up and progression of carotid atherosclerosis determined by duplex scanning in patients suffering from TIA. We investigated the clinical outcomes and the progression of the internal carotid arterial lesions of a group of patients presenting with hemispheric TIAs. The cumulative frequency of TIAs during a mean follow-up period of 40 +/- 14 months was 14%, and no relationship was found between new TIAs and the presence of known cardiovascular risk factors or plaque characteristics as determined by duplex scanning. With the exception of one patient who died of stroke, none of the patients developed a permanent neurologic deficit. The cumulative death rate was 6.5%; myocardial infarction was the most common cause (3 out of 7). Anatomic progression of plaques was determined by duplex scanning in 22% of the internal carotid arteries. No relationship between progression of these plaques and the development of new TIAs was evident. We conclude that, in this group of patients, TIAs do not inevitably lead to stroke and that TIAs are not predictable based on risk factors or plaques characteristics. 
Limb salvage surgery for bone and soft tissue sarcoma. A phase II pathologic study of preoperative intraarterial cisplatin. Preoperative therapy has been tested as part of limb salvage therapy for localized bone and soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities. The activity of cisplatin (CDDP) by intraarterial (IA) infusion was evaluated in 40 cases of which 36 were evaluable for response. All patients had high-grade sarcomas. All but 3 patients received 3 or 4 courses (24 patients received 4 courses) of CDDP at a dosage of 120 to 150 mg/m2 given over 6 hours every 2 weeks by IA infusion. Patients younger than 18 years of age received the higher dose of CDDP. Treatment was well tolerated with combination antiemetics. One patient experienced severe hearing loss with the first cycle of the higher CDDP dose. Pathologic evaluation of resected osteosarcoma showed a favorable response (90% or greater necrosis) in 8 of 20 evaluable cases and in 3 of 4 patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of bone (without osteoid). In soft tissue sarcomas, minimal (50% to 89%) necrosis was seen in two of nine cases and none had 90% or greater necrosis. Patients received postoperative chemotherapy based on pathologic response, but the value of this postoperative adjuvant therapy requires further follow-up and is uncertain in this small study. IA CDDP can often cause significant tumor necrosis in patients with bone sarcomas, whereas soft tissue sarcomas are less sensitive to this therapy. 
Importance of experimental models for the development of clinical trials on thromboatherosclerosis. Experimental models of vascular injury have enhanced our understanding of the pathophysiological process leading to vascular obstruction in both spontaneous and accelerated atherosclerosis. Based on experimental findings, we present and discuss a pathological classification of vascular injury or damage and its role in the pathogenesis of various vascular diseases. In addition, these animal models have provided insights into the roles of platelets and lipid metabolism in the evolution and progression of atherosclerosis and have suggested potential therapeutic applications. Thus, based on studies in the pig models, antiplatelet agents have been shown for the first time to have a beneficial effect in preventing the formation and progression of coronary atherosclerotic lesions in humans. Similarly, our findings in high density lipoprotein plasma fractions regarding inhibition and even reversal of the process of atherosclerosis in a hypercholesterolemic rabbit model have added new insights to an explosive field of lipoprotein research and provided new avenues of therapeutic strategies. our in vivo and ex vivo pig models of an extracorporeal perfusion chamber mimicking the various coronary conditions have aided in the understanding of the pathophysiology of the acute coronary syndromes and intensified our search for the ideal antithrombotic regimen in these high-risk patients. Finally, a carotid pig model of balloon angioplasty, a dog model of saphenous vein grafting, and a pig model of heart transplantation not only have provided insights into the pathophysiological process of accelerated atherosclerosis but also are allowing development of new antithrombotic and antiproliferative approaches for the prevention of these accelerated vascular diseases. In summary, we are entering an exciting era in vascular research. Significant advances in our understanding of vascular injury or damage as well as the interactions of blood cells and lipids with the vascular wall have allowed us to formulate new experimental strategies with subsequent clinical application in the prevention and progression of these vascular diseases. 
Endogenous opiates modulate the postapnea ventilatory response in the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Defense of ventilatory homeostasis against recurrent hypercapnia, hypoxia, and acidosis resulting from apnea in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is dependent on compensatory mechanisms operative between episodes of airway obstruction. This investigation was designed to examine whether endogenous opiate activity modulates the compensatory ventilatory response to apnea in OSAS. Polysomnography and quantitative measurement of tidal volume was performed in 12 patients with moderate to severe OSAS during a morning nap study before and after intravenous administration of 10 mg of naloxone. Apnea index was not significantly altered. There was a small but significant shortening of apneas (postnaloxone apnea duration, 91.2% of prenaloxone; p = 0.002 by ANOVA). Tidal volume of the first postapnea breath and minute ventilation extrapolated from the first two postapnea breaths, but not frequency, increased significantly after naloxone (postnaloxone first breath volume, 112.7% of prenaloxone value [p = 0.03], with a similar increase for minute ventilation, 115.1% [p = 0.007]). The volume of the first postapnea breath was correlated with the duration of the previous apnea, both before (r = 0.59, p = 0.0001) and after naloxone. Despite this, analysis of covariance with apnea duration as the covariate confirmed a significant independent increase in postapnea breath volume after naloxone (p = 0.001). Naloxone also altered sleep architecture, increasing percent time awake during the study period (prenaloxone, 36.3 +/- 15.6%; postnaloxone, 56.7 +/- 22.4%; p = 0.0003) and decreasing total sleep time and percent time in Stage 1. Furthermore, naloxone increased continuity of awake periods (mean length of awake periods increased from 27.0 +/- 8.4 to 66.0 +/- 66.6 s after naloxone, p = 0.05). 
Radiographic fallopian tube recanalization: absorbed ovarian radiation dose. Absorbed radiation dose to the ovaries during radiographic fallopian tube recanalization was estimated in 29 patients with use of thermoluminescent dosimeters placed in the vaginal fornix. With an average fluoroscopic time of 8.5 minutes +/- 5.5 and an average of 14 +/- 5 105-mm spot radiographs obtained, the average absorbed dose to the ovaries was 8.5 mGy +/- 5.6 (0.85 rad +/- 0.56). Technical guidelines for keeping patient radiation exposure to a minimum during this new interventional procedure are suggested. 
Patterns of failure in Hancock pericardial bioprostheses. A series of Hancock pericardial valve bioprostheses was reviewed for cases of primary valve failure. Thirteen mitral and 10 aortic valve explants were recovered from 21 adult patients. Mitral valves had been in place for a mean of 56.4 months, and aortic valves for 53.8 months. All valves failed with cusp tears from stents (with a mean of 1.7 for mitral valves and 2.6 for aortic valves) in a predictable pattern, suggesting that wear and stress at cusp stitch sites are important in their pathogenesis. The topography of these tears is illustrated as are the less common associates of primary failure, such as calcification, fibrosis, and thrombosis. Similarities and differences of this valve's failure compared with that of the Ionescu-Shiley pericardial valve are discussed. 
Left bronchial isomerism associated with bronchomalacia, presenting with intractable wheeze. The cause of the Williams Campbell syndrome (bronchomalacia with bronchiectasis) is controversial. A boy with bronchomalacia, bifid ribs, and left bronchial isomerism presented with intractable wheeze mimicking asthma. The combination of the abdominal, bronchial, and atrial anatomy seen in this child has been described only once previously. The coexistence of these congenital abnormalities in this boy supports a congenital cause for the Williams Campbell syndrome. The need to assess wheezy children critically is emphasised. 
Rapid thrombus dissolution by continuous infusion of urokinase through an intracoronary perfusion wire prior to and following PTCA: results in native coronaries and patent saphenous vein grafts. Even with aspirin and heparin therapy, thrombus present prior to or forming after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) results in significant complications. We report on 33 patients who were treated with continuous infusion of Urokinase through an intracoronary perfusion wire for 24 hr because of visible intracoronary thrombus. Seventeen native vessels (9 pre-PTCA and 8 post-PTCA) and sixteen saphenous vein grafts (12 pre-PTCA and 4 post-PTCA) were treated. All vessels were patent at the time of perfusion wire placement. Complete thrombus resolution, successful PTCA and sustained patency was seen in 31 of 33 patients. One native vessel treated post PTCA (originally occluded) re-occluded. One saphenous vein graft treated prior to PTCA showed improvement in thrombus but distal embolization with balloon inflation occurred. No significant complications related to the intracoronary infusion technique were observed. In conclusion, rapid lysis of intra-coronary thrombus can be accomplish safely using this technique and can result in improved PTCA outcome. 
Surgical treatment of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome by epicardial electrical ablation A new operation to eliminate accessory pathways--epicardial electrical ablation--is described. In a group of 201 patients without concomitant disease, the mortality rate was 0.5% and the overall efficacy of the operation for free wall accessory pathways, 98%. A retrospective clinical study of 44 unselected patients was performed to examine how safe epicardial electrical ablation is. The criteria for intraoperative effectiveness were disappearance of both the delta wave and retrograde conduction and inability to induce tachycardia. In the postoperative and follow-up periods, the following were reviewed: electrocardiograms; Holter monitor recordings (24 to 26 hours); release of the myocardial-specific isoenzyme of creatine kinase; intracardiac hemodynamics and myocardial contractility (radionuclide methods); selective coronary arteriograms and ventriculograms; mean work capacity (bicycle ergometer); diagnostic transesophageal electrical stimulation; and histology of the area of ablation. The main conclusion of this study is that epicardial electrical ablation is a highly efficient and safe operation for surgical elimination of parietal accessory pathways in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Its advantages are its technical simplicity and the opportunity to review results immediately during the operation. 
Relationship between insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion and glucose tolerance in cirrhosis. Hepatic insulin extraction is difficult to measure in humans; as a result, the interrelationship between defective insulin secretion and insulin insensitivity in the pathogenesis of glucose intolerance in cirrhosis remains unclear. To reassess this we used recombinant human C-peptide to measure C-peptide clearance in cirrhotic patients and controls and thus derive C-peptide and insulin secretion rates after a 75-gm oral glucose load and during a 10 mmol/L hyperglycemic clamp. Cirrhotic patients were confirmed as insulin-insensitive during a euglycemic clamp (glucose requirement: 4.1 +/- 0.1 mg/kg/min vs. 8.1 +/- 0.5 mg/kg/min; p less than 0.001), which also demonstrated a low insulin metabolic clearance rate (p less than 0.001). Although intolerant after oral glucose, the cirrhotic patients had glucose requirements identical to those of controls during the hyperglycemic clamp (cirrhotic patients: 6.1 +/- 1.0 mg/kg/min; controls: 6.3 +/- 0.7 mg/kg/min), suggesting normal intravenous glucose tolerance. C-peptide MCR was identical in cirrhotic patients (2.93 +/- 0.16 ml/min/kg) and controls (2.96 +/- 0.24 ml/min/kg). Insulin secretion was higher in cirrhotic patients, both fasting (2.13 +/- 0.26 U/hr vs. 1.09 +/- 0.10 U/hr; p less than 0.001) and from min 30 to 90 of the hyperglycemic clamp (5.22 +/- 0.70 U/hr vs. 2.85 +/- 0.22 U/hr; p less than 0.001). However, with oral glucose the rise in serum C-peptide concentration was relatively delayed, and the insulin secretion index (secretion/area under 3-hr glucose curve) was not elevated. Hepatic insulin extraction was reduced both in fasting and during the hyperglycemic clamp (p less than 0.001). 
Platelet-activating factor in stroke and brain injury. Platelet-activating factor, an endogenous phospholipid of proinflammatory, hemostatic, and vasoactive properties, is synthesized by neurons and in injured brain. Platelet-activating factor is released together with eicosanoids such as thromboxane A2, prostacyclin, and leukotrienes. Its effects in neurons are mediated through a specific receptor coupled to phospholipase C and phosphoinositol metabolism. The cerebrovascular effects of platelet-activating factor include disruption of the blood-brain barrier, edema formation, and vasospasm. It has also been described to possess direct toxicity to neuronal cells in culture. Discovery and development of several highly potent and selective antagonists to platelet-activating factor receptors facilitated experimental studies underscoring the role of this factor as an endogenous mediator in cerebral disorders, particularly cerebral ischemia and trauma. Significant biochemical, microvascular, functional, and behavioral recovery has been demonstrated using these antagonists in an array of experimental models of focal and global ischemia in the central nervous system (CNS). Clearly, studies of platelet-activating factor in experimental models of CNS ischemia and reperfusion injury open a new perspective on phospholipid metabolism in stroke and offer an exceptionally promising therapeutic prospect. Data supporting this factor as a mediator of specific pathological sequelae in stroke and neuroinjury are surveyed in this review. We discuss the mechanisms and significance of platelet-activating factor-mediated effects and propose directions for future studies. 
Hypertension as a causative diagnosis of patients entering end-stage renal disease programs in the United States from 1980 to 1986. Treatment of hypertension has decreased the incidence of stroke and congestive heart failure consequential to hypertension. To determine whether the incidence of hypertension as a causative diagnosis of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is also decreasing, we examined the records of the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) from 1980 to 1986 regarding the causative diagnoses of patients entering ESRD programs. We found that the incidence of patients entering ESRD programs increased during the study period. Hypertension as a causative diagnosis was a constant proportion of the increase. The greatest increase occurred in patients age 55 or more years. This was strikingly true of black patients. We conclude that there has not been a decrease in the incidence of hypertension as a causative diagnosis for patients entering ESRD programs and that this may be a reflection that treatment of hypertension does not prevent the development of ESRD in some patients. We propose that prospective studies be undertaken to determine whether this is the case. 
Hyperthyroidism due to a pituitary adenoma composed of two different cell types, one secreting alpha-subunit alone and another cosecreting alpha-subunit and thyrotropin. A 37-yr-old female presented with clinical signs and symptoms of mild hyperthyroidism, high serum levels of free T4 (24.2 pmol/L), free T3 (11.7 pmol/L), and sex hormone-binding globulin (157 nmol/L) as well as measurable (by immunofluorometric assay) serum TSH concentrations (1.9 mU/L) in the absence of any known methodological interference. The above finding indicated the presence of hyperthyroidism due to inappropriate secretion of TSH, whose neoplastic origin was documented by computed tomographic scan showing a 1-cm pituitary adenoma. The diagnosis was confirmed by elevated alpha-subunit levels (9.2 micrograms/L) and alpha-subunit/TSH molar ratio (25.2) as well as absent TSH suppression after T3 administration. TRH injection (200 microgram, iv) caused impaired TSH (from 3.0 to 4.8 mU/L) and unexpectedly exaggerated alpha-subunit (from 8.8 to 18.2 micrograms/L) responses. Such a discrepancy was also observed after other dynamic tests. Double gold particle immunostaining of the adenomatous tissue removed at surgery showed that all of the cells contained secretory granules positive for alpha-subunit, while very few cells were positive for TSH beta and alpha-subunit. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates the existence of TSH-induced hyperthyroidism due to a pituitary adenoma composed of two different cell types: one secreting alpha-subunit alone and another cosecreting alpha-subunit and TSH. 
Evaluation of valvular heart disease with cine gradient echo magnetic resonance imaging. Electrocardiographic referenced repetitive gradient echo magnetic resonance imaging (cine GRE) has been used to detect and quantify valvular regurgitation. Regurgitation is recognized as a signal void in the high intensity blood pool on these images. Mitral regurgitation causes a signal void in the left atrium in systole, and aortic regurgitation produces one in the left ventricle in diastole. The specificity, sensitivity, and diagnostic accuracy of cine GRE for the detection of mitral and aortic regurgitation was greater than 0.93, 0.89, and 0.92, respectively. The severity of regurgitation has been quantified as the difference in the stroke volume between the two ventricles by measuring the volume of the blood pool, as shown in the stack of magnetic resonance tomograms. Severity has also been assessed by measuring the volume of the signal void. Finally, measurements of the volume of aortic regurgitation have recently been achieved by using velocity-encoded cine GRE. This technique provides a direct measurement of retrograde flow in the aorta during diastole. New cine GRE imaging techniques provide a noninvasive means for quantification of valvular as well as ventricular function. 
Cerebral haemorrhage in a French prospective population study. The incidence of cerebral haemorrhage was studied from a population-based stroke registry. The incidence was 12.3 per 100,000 per year in women and 13.9 per 100,000 per year in men, with a peak in the eighth decade and a male preponderance. Haemorrhages were deep seated and mostly due to hypertension. Recognised clinical characteristics of haemorrhage are acute onset, convulsion, vomiting, and disturbed consciousness. This study showed that cerebral haemorrhage may present with pure motor deficit or transient deficit preceding the stroke. The mortality was 51% in the first month, and 61% by two years. 
Cellular intermediate filament networks and their derangement in alcoholic hepatitis. Intermediate filaments are major components of most eukaryotic cells that form from the polymerization of protein subunits that are expressed in tissue and development specific fashions. The interactions of intermediate filaments with a myriad of other cellular proteins and structures give rise to a complex overall cellular architecture that is likely responsible for cellular well-being. The mature 10-nm filaments are relatively stable cellular structures, but the intermediate filaments undergo major morphological and biochemical changes, especially during mitosis, differentiation, and in response to certain drugs. Evidence exists that hepatocyte intermediate filaments (keratin filaments) are deranged in alcoholic hepatitis, an inflammatory liver disease of alcoholics and heavy spree drinkers. The classical and characteristic pathological hepatocyte inclusion bodies of alcoholic hepatitis, Mallory bodies, are composed in part of normal keratins that likely derive from the pre-existing hepatocyte intermediate filament network. It is unclear if intermediate filament network derangement in alcoholic hepatitis is directly caused by the actions of ethanol or its metabolites on intermediate filaments or their associated structures, or whether alcohol causes a cellular insult or injury elsewhere and a subsequent response (e.g., immune) causes intermediate filament network derangement. The precise mechanisms responsible for intermediate filament derangement remain to be elucidated; however, experimental data exist that support and refute several hypotheses. Hopefully, further studies will help determine a better overall understanding of the abnormalities of intermediate filaments and their relationship to the pathophysiology of alcoholic hepatitis and other diseases. 
Pleuropulmonary complications of endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. The most common pulmonary complication of EVS is pleural effusion. The most clinically significant pulmonary complication of EVS is delayed perforation with formation of esophagopleural or esophagobronchial fistula. Pneumonia, empyema, pulmonary infarction, and atelectasis can also occur. Endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy probably does not cause ARDS, but that issue remains unsettled. Transient relative pulmonary hypertension during EVS is probably of no clinical significance, but caution is urged when sclerosing varices in a patient with borderline right heart function. 
An unusual problem during surgical removal of a broken guidewire. At operation, it proved impossible using traction alone to remove an angioplasty guidewire that was lodged in an intermediate artery. The problem was solved by passing a Teflon catheter over the wire, thus protecting the left main coronary artery while freeing the entrapped distal end of the guidewire. 
Delayed sternal closure for life-threatening complications in cardiac operations: an update. Over a 7-year-period, 25 patients had delayed sternal closure after open heart operations out of 34 patients whose sternum was not closed. The indications were extreme cardiac dilatation and uncontrollable mediastinal hemorrhage. This represented a 1.79% incidence in the overall open heart surgical experience at our unit. Sternal closure was performed at a mean of 2.64 days after the initial operation. Eighteen patients (52.9%) left the hospital alive and well, representing a 72% survival rate among patients undergoing delayed sternal closure. No mediastinal or fatal infection developed and only 1 patient had late superficial wound infection after delayed sternal closure. We conclude that delayed sternal closure is an effective method to treat severe complications after cardiac operations. 
Brain tumors occurring before 1 year of age: a retrospective reviews of 22 cases in an 11-year period (1977-1987). Congenital brain tumors have been reported infrequently and their management remains ill defined. An 11-year review (1977-1987) of all children with brain tumors with the onset of symptoms before 1 year of age was completed. Twenty-two children with the following histological diagnoses were treated: astrocytoma (7 patients), primitive neuroectodermal tumor (6 patients), papilloma or carcinoma of the choroid plexus (3 patients), malignant teratoma (2 patients), dermoid tumor (2 patients), embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (1 patient), and chloroma (1 patient). Fifteen tumors were supratentorial in location, and 7 were infratentorial. Initial symptoms were hydrocephalus (32%), focal neurological deficit (23%), asymptomatic increase in head circumference (18%), failure to thrive (14%), and seizures (4.5%). The goal of treatment was a radical excision when possible, with primary chemotherapy in the last 6 years of the review period. Radiation therapy was the adjunct to surgery in the initial 5-year period. All patients with papillomas of the choroid plexus and dermoid lesions underwent a total resection with no recurrence. All 7 astrocytomas were supratentorial, with 6 occurring in the diencephalon. Five of the seven patients with astrocytomas survived more than 5 years. The 6 primitive neuroectodermal tumors were located equally between the supra- and infratentorial spaces. Four of the 6 infants with these tumors received chemotherapy (2 received chemotherapy alone; 2 received chemotherapy and radiation therapy) and are tumor free 2 to 9 years later. A fifth child received radiation therapy alone early in the series and survived only 4 months. The family of the other child refused adjunctive treatment. 
Bleeding esophagogastric varices. Ways to treat active episodes and prevent recurrence. Bleeding from esophagogastric varices carries a high mortality rate. Active variceal bleeding can usually be temporarily controlled medically with a combination of intravenous vasopressin and nitroglycerin, with balloon tamponade, or with endoscopic sclerotherapy. Because of the high likelihood of recurrence, long-term treatment, such as repeated sclerotherapy, propranolol therapy, or shunt surgery, is necessary. The proper selection of such measures requires consideration of the site of variceal bleeding, local availability of specialized techniques, and patient factors. Only liver transplantation reverses the liver damage and offers hope of improved long-term survival. As success at identifying high-risk patients by endoscopic features improves, propranolol or other pharmacologic prophylaxis may become an acceptable treatment. 
Nutritional management of inflammatory bowel disease. The etiology and specific treatment of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are unknown, and the treatment strategy for patients with inflammatory bowel disease is essentially symptomatic and supportive. The malnutrition that frequently accompanies inflammatory bowel disease is a manifestation of intestinal failure and should be vigorously corrected with total parenteral nutrition, elemental diets, or both. Evidence exists for the value of total parenteral nutrition and elemental diets as primary therapy for inflammatory bowel disease in selected patients. Judicious nutritional therapy remains a cornerstone in the adjunctive management of these patients. 
Aortic distensibility in patients with isolated hypercholesterolaemia, coronary artery disease, or cardiac transplant. The stiffness of the thoracic aorta can be assessed non-invasively. If aortic stiffness can be shown to be related to coronary heart disease, perhaps it can be used to identify which patients with hypercholesterolaemia are most likely to have atheromatous changes and thus to be selected for intensive cholesterol-lowering treatment. Hence the distensibility of the transverse aortic arch was measured by echocardiography of the aortic arch in four groups of patients--symptom-free patients with normal serum cholesterol; symptom-free patients with raised serum cholesterol; patients with coronary heart disease (all with raised serum cholesterol), and post-heart-transplant patients. In all groups distensibility fell with age. The regression slope was steeper (p less than 0.05) for patients with known coronary disease than for either of the disease-free groups, and among cardiac transplant recipients there was also a segregation of distensibility values between those with and without atheroma in their native hearts. The results indicate that aortic distensibility might be an indicator of coronary heart disease and that it might be useful in identifying which symptom-free subjects with modest hypercholesterolaemia should be treated aggressively. 
Interactions between calcium channel blockers and the anticonvulsants carbamazepine and phenytoin. We describe a retrospective analysis of the frequency of adverse interactions between calcium channel blockers and anticonvulsant drugs (phenytoin and carbamazepine) in a series of 43 patients. Ten patients receiving carbamazepine and three patients receiving phenytoin exhibited symptoms or signs of toxicity. Toxicity occurred with both diltiazem and verapamil, but not with nifedipine. These results emphasize the need for careful clinical and laboratory monitoring of patients receiving both classes of medication. 
Unique odontogenic tumor with dentinogenesis and features of unicystic plexiform ameloblastoma. A case of an atypical odontogenic tumor with features of unicystic plexiform ameloblastoma and odontoblastic differentiation with deposition of tubular dentin matrix is reported. The significance of dentinogenesis, amelogenesis, and calcification in odontogenic tumors is discussed. 
Basement-membrane thickening of the vocal cords in sudden infant death syndrome. Sudden infant death syndrome remains the leading cause of death in infants between the ages of 1 month and 1 year. Diagnosis at autopsy is usually reached by process of elimination, as no obvious cause of death is recognized. The larynges of 23 sudden infant death syndrome victims, as well as 6 infants and 3 fetuses who died of other known causes, were examined in this study. While thickening of the basement membrane of the vocal cords was apparent in all sudden infant death syndrome victims, no such finding was present in the larynges of infants and fetuses dying of other causes. Thus, it is suggested that basement-membrane thickening may serve as a diagnostic tool for identification of sudden infant death syndrome at autopsy. 
Case report of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the third trimester of pregnancy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy has not been reported during pregnancy. This is the first reported case of a cholecystectomy by laparoscopic technique in the third trimester of pregnancy. The patient (and her baby) had a rapid, uneventful recovery identical to that of a nonpregnant patient. 
Angiography in unstable angina. Within the last decade, it has been appreciated that the acute coronary syndromes of unstable angina, non-Q-wave, and Q-wave myocardial infarction often share a common pathogenesis based on plaque disruption and thrombosis. Such "acute" lesions frequently have a characteristic angiographic appearance with sharp overhanging edges, irregular borders, and intraluminal lucency. This review focuses on the benefits and limitations of qualitative assessment of coronary lesion morphology, with respect to the sensitivity, specificity, and prognostic significance of complex lesions and intracoronary thrombi. Angiographic findings following thrombolysis for unstable angina are discussed, as well as the possible role for thrombolytic therapy as an adjunct to angioplasty in unstable angina. 
High-molecular-weight alkaline phosphatase in serum has properties similar to the enzyme in plasma membranes of the liver. Partially purified high-molecular-weight alkaline phosphatase from serum was compared with two other forms of the enzyme from the human liver, enzyme in native plasma membranes and purified alkaline phosphatase as a hydrophilic dimer. In a high-molecular-weight form from serum and plasma membranes, and when treated with 1% (v/v) Triton X-100, alkaline phosphatase showed a major band on gradient gel electrophoresis with a mobility equivalent to 400 kD. Nondetergent-treated material from both sources did not enter the gel and was in the voided volume of a gel permeation column. Stimulation of catalytic activity by four different phospholipids and by albumin yielded similar results for high-molecular-weight alkaline phosphatase and for the enzyme in plasma membranes, but these were different from the hydrophilic form. Inhibitors of alkaline phosphatase had similar effects on all forms. Of the three forms of the enzyme, only the hydrophilic dimer did not become incorporated into liposomes or adsorb to octyl-Sepharose after solubilization with Triton X-100 and removal of the detergent. Km (substrate concentration to give half maximal velocity) values with p-nitrophenylphosphate and heat and sodium dodecyl sulfate stabilities were similar for all forms. In the high-molecular-weight form from serum and in plasma membranes, alkaline phosphatase and 5'-nucleotidase showed similar rates of release by phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C. Three preparations of phospholipase D failed to release alkaline phosphatase from either the high-molecular-weight form or from plasma membranes. Based on these similarities, it is probable that the complex of high-molecular-weight alkaline phosphatase in serum most often originates from fragments of hepatic plasma membranes. 
Stimulation of a Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase by GM1 ganglioside in nerve growth factor-treated PC12 cells. We have investigated the ability of exogenous gangliosides to modulate nerve growth factor (NGF) signal transduction in PC12 cells. The effects of exogenous ganglioside GM1 on multiple protein kinase activities were assayed by analyzing site-specific serine phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TyrOHase) by two-dimensional phosphopeptide mapping. In the presence of NGF, exogenous GM1 (1-10 microM) increased 32P incorporation into TyrOHase phosphopeptide T2, a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase substrate whose phosphorylation is not normally affected by NGF treatment. In the absence of NGF, GM1 treatment had no significant effects on TyrOHase phosphorylation. The removal of extracellular Ca2+ or blockade of dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channels prevented the GM1-induced increases in 32P incorporation into phosphopeptide T2. Exogenous GM1 also potentiated K+ depolarization-induced increases in the phosphorylation of TryOHase. These results suggest that the stimulatory effects of exogenous GM1 ganglioside on NGF actions may be due to its ability to potentiate a Ca(2+)-dependent signaling pathway. 
Colonic hyperproliferation induced in rats and mice by nutritional-stress diets containing four components of a human Western-style diet (series 2). In a previous study colonic hyperplasia and hyperproliferation were induced in mice and rats by a nutritional-stress diet, based on the AIN-76A semisynthetic diet modified to contain four suggested high-risk components of the human Western-style diet: increased fat and phosphate and decreased calcium and vitamin D contents. In this study the effect of raising calcium alone to near the median level (0.22 mg/kcal) and to a high level (1.3 mg/kcal), comparable to adult human dietary intake, was tested in mice and rats while retaining the three other high-risk components. With median calcium intake the nutritional-stress diet induced hyperproliferation of epithelial cells in colonic crypts, with increased numbers of proliferating cells in crypt columns in sigmoid colon of mice (P less than 0.001) and rats (P = 0.02) and in the ascending colon of mice (P = 0.01). With high calcium intake, hyperproliferation was reduced almost to control amounts in the presence of unchanged fat, phosphate, and vitamin D. 
DNA analysis of atrial myxomas. The atrial myxoma is a primary tumor of the heart which may have an uncertain clinical course. In this study, we performed flow cytometric DNA analysis of 15 paraffin-embedded atrial myxomas and correlated DNA ploidy status and proliferative fraction with clinical findings. Twelve of 15 cases (80 percent) were diploid and the remaining three cases (20 percent) were aneuploid. Two patients with aneuploid histograms were free of tumor at the time follow-up; the third patient experienced local tumor recurrence and metastases. Five patients with diploid myxomas demonstrated an elevated (greater than or equal to 17 percent) proliferative cell cycle fraction; four of these patients experienced embolic phenomenon or tumor recurrence. This pilot study suggests that an atrial myxoma with either aneuploid DNA content or elevated proliferative fraction may be associated with aggressive biologic behavior. 
Induction of cytosolic free calcium elevation in rat vascular smooth-muscle cells by cerebrospinal fluid from patients after subarachnoid hemorrhage. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on cytosolic free calcium in cultured rat vascular smooth-muscle cells using the fluorescent intracellular calcium indicator fura-2/AM. Samples of CSF were collected from 12 patients (seven with and five without vasospasm) on Days 2, 6, 11, and 16 after SAH. Control CSF samples were obtained from five patients 6 to 9 months after they had undergone successful aneurysm surgery following an SAH. All CSF samples in both the non-vasospasm and vasospasm groups, regardless of the day of sampling after the SAH, induced significantly higher transient intracellular calcium elevations when compared to levels induced by control CSF. Furthermore, the addition of 2 mM ethyleneglycol-bis (beta-aminoethylether)-N,N'-tetra-acetic acid (EGTA) caused a slight reduction in the peak height in the CSF-induced intracellular calcium rise which declined more rapidly to basal levels than those studied without EGTA. In the non-vasospasm group, the intracellular calcium concentration remained stable after SAH throughout the study period. In contrast, in the vasospasm group, this concentration was highest on Day 2 post-SAH, but sharply decreased on Day 6 and rose again on Day 11. This result correlated with the clinical signs of vasospasm in these patients. These findings indicated that the intracellular calcium elevations induced by CSF obtained after SAH were due to the combination of the influx of extracellular calcium and the mobilization of intracellular calcium from storage sites. The changes in intracellular calcium concentrations in vascular smooth-muscle cells induced by CSF obtained from patients on successive days following SAH suggest that the substances that induce this repeat calcium elevation on Day 11 post-SAH may be the key spasmogens for vasospasm after SAH. 
Role of sympathetic activity in blood pressure reduction with low calorie regimen. To investigate the effects of a low calorie regimen on sympathetic function and its relation to blood pressure response, 22 untreated obese essential hypertensive patients (50 +/- 2 years, body mass index 29 +/- 1 kg/m2) were hospitalized and a diet was prescribed of 2,000 kcal/day for 5 days (control period) followed by 800 kcal/day for 21 days without changing salt intake (8-10 g/day). The dose of intravenous phenylephrine infusion needed to elevate systolic blood pressure 20 mm Hg (CD20) and the 24-hour urinary excretion of norepinephrine (UNE) were measured. During the low calorie period, blood pressure normalized in 14 patients (responder group, 124 +/- 3/79 +/- 4 mm Hg) and eight remained hypertensive (poor responder group, 158 +/- 6/103 +/- 3 mm Hg). At the control period, blood pressure and body mass index were similar, but the responder group had higher UNE (134 +/- 15 micrograms/day) and CD20 (127 +/- 11 micrograms) than the poor responder group (89 +/- 6 micrograms/day and 79 +/- 13 micrograms, respectively). During the low calorie period, both UNE (87 +/- 15 micrograms/day) and CD20 (74 +/- 10 micrograms) decreased in the responder group; no change was seen in the poor responder group. Changes in UNE and systolic blood pressure were correlated (r = 0.6, p less than 0.05). In conclusion, suppression of sympathetic activity plays a role in blood pressure reduction during moderate caloric restriction. 
Detection of preclinical Parkinson's disease with PET. Putamen 18F-dopa uptake of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is reduced by at least 35% at onset of symptoms; therefore, positron-emission tomography (PET) can be used to detect preclinical disease in clinically unaffected twins and relatives of patients with PD. Three out of 6 monozygotic and 2 out of 3 dizygotic unaffected PD co-twins have shown reduced putamen 18F-dopa uptake to date. In addition, an intact sibling and a daughter of 1 of 4 siblings with PD both had low putamen 18F-dopa uptake. These preliminary findings suggest there may be a familial component to the etiology of PD. PET can also be used to detect underlying nigral pathology in patients with isolated tremor and patients who become rigid taking dopamine-receptor blocking agents (DRBAs). Patients with familial essential tremor have normal, and those with isolated rest tremor have consistently low, putamen 18F-dopa uptake. Drug-induced parkinsonism is infrequently associated with underlying nigral pathology. 
Sudden hearing loss due to AIDS-related cryptococcal meningitis--a temporal bone study. We have presented the clinical history and temporal bone findings in a patient who manifested sudden hearing loss, and who subsequently was found to have cryptococcal meningitis associated with AIDS. The histopathologic findings are similar to earlier reports in patients without AIDS. Because cryptococcal infection is so much more common in AIDS patients than in the general population, it must be considered a causative factor when presented with an AIDS patient with progressive or sudden hearing loss. This offers the patient a chance for timely and effective treatment. 
Pulmonary hypertension and polymorphonuclear leukocyte elastase after esophageal cancer operations. To evaluate the role of polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) elastase in pulmonary impairment occurring after operation for esophageal cancer, 10 patients were randomized preoperatively into two equal groups. One group received a placebo infusion and the other, an infusion of the PMN elastase inhibitor ulinastatin. In the placebo group, the mean plasma PMN elastase level increased from 154 +/- 23 micrograms/L preoperatively to 449 +/- 56 micrograms/L at 6 hours postoperatively (p less than 0.01), whereas the mean plasma fibronectin concentration decreased from 490 +/- 70 micrograms/mL preoperatively to 265 +/- 81 micrograms/L on postoperative day 2 (p less than 0.01). The mean pulmonary vascular resistance increased markedly from 151 +/- 24 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 preoperatively to 284 +/- 76 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 at 6 hours postoperatively (p less than 0.01). In the group given ulinastatin, 150,000 units every 12 hours from the start of the operation, the mean PMN elastase value at 6 hours postoperatively was lower (275 +/- 66 micrograms/L; p less than 0.01) and the fibronectin level on postoperative days 1 and 2, higher (p less than 0.05). A lower pulmonary vascular resistance was noted into day 2 (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that PMN elastase may participate in the development of postoperative pulmonary impairment. 
Nucleolar organizer regions in various human brain tumors. Nucleolar organizer regions (NOR's) are loops of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) which transcribe to ribosomal ribonucleic acid (RNA) by RNA polymerase I. They possess vital significance in the ultimate synthesis of cellular proteins. A silver colloid staining technique for demonstration of NOR-associated proteins (Ag-NOR's) was applied to paraffin-embedded sections from 128 varied brain tumors and to chromosomal preparations from cultured brain-tumor cells. There was a statistically significant difference in the mean number of Ag-NOR's per nucleus between low-grade tumors (1.98/nucleus) and high-grade tumors (2.95/nucleus). It is suggested that the mean number of Ag-NOR's may represent the proliferative potential of brain tumors. Furthermore, high-grade tumors usually showed relatively large Ag-NOR's in a scattered distribution. In chromosomal preparations, the cultured cells displayed five to 12 Ag-NOR's on acrocentric chromosomes. Five of eight cell lines examined demonstrated ectopic Ag-NOR's. This simple staining technique can be easily applied to routinely processed paraffin-embedded sections and will become a useful tool for quick estimation of the proliferative potential of human brain tumors. 
Childhood haemangiomas of the head and neck. Haemangiomas of the head and neck in children may be of several histological types, the clinical course depending on the group to which the haemangioma belongs. Treatment may be required if the haemangioma interferes with the airway, as in the subglottic group, or if the lesion becomes ulcerated with subsequent haemorrhage, as in capillary cavernous haemangiomas. Most haemangiomas require no immediate treatment as they involute spontaneously, though parental reassurance will be of paramount importance. Those lesions which persist may be amenable to treatment at a later date, the laser probably offering the best long-term results in terms of cosmesis as in the case of port-wine stains. Superselective embolization is becoming the treatment of choice for arterial haemangiomas. This paper is designed to clarify the histological and clinical features of these tumours and their management in view of considerable confusion in the literature encountered in our study. 
Patterns of morbidity and mortality in typhoid fever dependent on age and gender: review of 552 hospitalized patients with diarrhea. Features of typhoid fever were correlated with age and gender through a review of the charts of 552 hospitalized culture-positive patients with diarrhea in Bangladesh. Seizures occurred more frequently in children from birth through 10 years of age (5%-11%) and pneumonia more frequently in children from birth through 5 years of age (8%-15%) than in older age groups (P less than .05), whereas intestinal perforation occurred more frequently in patients greater than or equal to 11 years of age (5%-25%) than in younger age groups (P less than .005). Compared with older age groups, children from birth through 10 years of age were more anemic, those from birth through 5 years of age had a higher mean white blood cell count, and those from birth through 1 year of age had a lower mean blood carbon dioxide content (all P less than .05). Female patients were more severely anemic than male patients (P less than .05). The case-fatality rate was 4.3% overall, with the highest rates for children from birth through 1 year of age (11%) and adults greater than or equal to 31 years of age (10%). Female patients had a higher case-fatality rate (6%) than male patients (3%), although the difference was not significant (P greater than .05). Death was independently associated with seizures, intestinal perforation, pneumonia, and delirium or coma. These results indicated that the patients with typhoid fever who were at highest risk of complications and death were children from birth through 1 year of age and adults greater than or equal to 31 years of age. 
An improved method for computerized tomography-planned transperineal 125iodine prostate implants. Transperineal 125iodine implants of the prostate can be performed with ultrasound guidance, a simple technique that has met with widespread acceptance. However, ultrasound does not allow good visualization of the pubic bones in relation to the pelvic outlet, and the pubic bones may interfere with needle placement in the anterior peripheral aspect of the prostate. Adequate irradiation of the entire periphery of the prostate is important to assure tumor control, since most tumors are multicentric and may involve the anterior aspect of the prostate. A computerized tomography-based treatment planning procedure that allows for angulation of transperineal needles to avoid the pubic bones and still reaches the most peripheral aspects of the gland is described. The technique also allows for the use of transrectal ultrasound and fluoroscopy to verify correct needle placement in the prostate at the procedure. Early treatment results, based on prostate specific antigen and regression of palpable tumors, are encouraging. 
Spatial and temporal registration of cardiac SPECT and MR images: methods and evaluation. Image registration may assist in the integration of information from multiple sources by allowing direct point-for-point comparisons of studies. To determine the usefulness of such a technique, a method for the spatial and temporal registration of four-dimensional single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) and magnetic resonance (MR) cardiac images was developed. Automatically detected left ventricular endocardial surfaces were used to determine the best transform between the two sets of surface points, and that transform was applied to the original SPECT image. A fused image created from the MR and the transformed SPECT images combined the information in both. The authors tested the method with seven patient studies. Registration reduced the distance between the MR and SPECT left ventricular endocardial surfaces by 30%, to an average of 2.7 mm. The authors found that, by using the fused images, perfusion abnormalities could be easily localized and correlated to high-resolution endocardial wall motion and systolic wall thickening. 
Intractable partial epilepsy: evaluation and treatment. Partial (focal or localization--related) epilepsy is the most common seizure disorder encountered in patients with epilepsy. These seizures are focal at onset-that is, emanating from a localized region of the brain. Patients with partial epilepsy may have seizures that are refractory to antiepileptic drug medication. The financial burden for these patients includes the cost of medical care and often the loss of employment. Psychosocial deterioration may be progressive as long as the seizures are intractable. Management includes confirmation of the type (or types) of seizures, exclusion of an intracranial epileptogenic lesion, and use of appropriate antiepileptic drug therapy. Referral of affected patients to a comprehensive epilepsy center for possible surgical treatment and investigational drug studies should be considered. In the care of the patient with intractable partial epilepsy, the goals should be to render the patient free of seizures and to allow the patient to become a participating and productive member of society. 
The role of echocardiography/Doppler in catheter balloon treatment of adults with aortic and mitral stenosis. Doppler and two-dimensional echocardiography (2DE) have played a major role in the evaluation of patients undergoing catheter balloon treatment of aortic and mitral stenosis. Doppler/2DE has made possible an understanding of the mechanism of increase in valve area. Before the procedure, Doppler/2DE provides a reasonable estimate of the severity of the valvular stenosis and associated cardiac abnormalities. The evaluation of mitral valve morphology by 2DE before catheter balloon treatment has shown that patients with excellent leaflet motion and minimal increase in valve thickness have the greatest increase in mitral valve area. During the procedure, Doppler/2DE can aid in the transseptal puncture, in positioning the balloons across the stenotic orifice, and in the immediate assessment of changes in valve function and complications. The estimate of the aortic and mitral valve gradients and areas by Doppler/2DE before catheter balloon treatment shows a reasonable correlation with hemodynamic measurements. Immediately after the procedure, the Doppler/2DE estimates of aortic valve gradient and area show a fair correlation with data from cardiac catheterization, provided care is taken to avoid technical problems. Doppler/2DE assessment of mitral valve area immediately after catheter balloon commissurotomy (CBC) shows a poor correlation with catheterization data, which has been attributed to rapid changes in left atrial compliance and gradient. However, the correlation of Doppler estimates of mitral valve area with catheterization data improves at 3 months after CBC. Serial evaluations of patients after aortic or mitral catheter balloon dilatation should permit detection of restenosis and valve regurgitation and assessment of ventricular function and may provide valuable insights into the mechanisms of restenosis and changing clinical status. 
Liver tumor promotion: effect of phenobarbital on EGF and protein kinase C signal transduction and transforming growth factor-beta 1 expression. Phenobarbital (PB) added to the medium of cultured rat hepatocytes alters epidermal growth factor (EGF) dependent mitogenesis in a biphasic manner; PB concentrations less than 1.5 mM are growth stimulatory but higher concentrations significantly inhibit normal hepatocyte proliferation. In contrast, the growth of putative preneoplastic cells is inhibited less by high concentrations of PB. Mechanistic studies designed to test the ability of PB to alter the early events of EGF signal transduction demonstrate that PB neither competes with EGF for binding to the EGF receptor nor alters EGF-induced receptor down-regulation. However, pretreatment with PB (greater than 1 mM) results in a transient inhibition of EGF binding to hepatocytes. The kinetics of this effect are similar to those obtained when hepatocytes are exposed to the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), a skin tumor promoter and activator of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C. However, several observations suggest that distinct mechanisms mediate the responses to these two tumor promoters. First, the inhibitory effects of PB and TPA on EGF binding are additive. Also down-regulation of EGF receptors in response to TPA occurs with hepatocytes, A431 epidermal carcinoma cells, HepG2 hepatoma cells, and rat liver epithelial cells, but only hepatocytes are sensitive to PB. Furthermore, translocation of protein kinase C to the membrane occurs in hepatocytes treated with TPA but not in those treated with PB. The chronic treatment of rats with PB further sensitizes hepatocytes to EGF receptor down-regulation by in vitro PB while desensitizing them to EGF receptor down-regulation by TPA. This latter effect is correlated with a decreased ability of TPA to induce translocation of protein kinase C to the membrane. PB significantly increases the intracellular concentration of TGF-beta 1 in periportal hepatocytes but not in putative preneoplastic cells. TGF-beta 1 may therefore have an important function in regulating early stages of cell cycle progression in proliferating hepatocytes. 
Analysis of reconstruction for anterior mandibular defects using AO plates. The functional and cosmetic outcome of 11 patients who had anterior arch mandibulectomy for stage II-IV oral cavity carcinoma and were reconstructed with AO stainless-steel or titanium plates was retrospectively analyzed. Although the complication rate was high, plate removal was uncommon. Patients were afforded good function and cosmesis. Severity of postoperative infection corresponded to a low preoperative absolute lymphocyte count, which suggests that increased preoperative diet supplementation may decrease the incidence of early infections. Improved mandibular function and esthetics may allow future patients to be offered early reconstruction routinely. 
Persistent extrapyramidal syndrome with dystonia and rigidity caused by combined metoclopramide and prochlorperazine therapy. We have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with cerebral palsy who experienced a persistent, generalized syndrome of dystonia and rigidity (tardive dystonia-parkinsonism) while being treated for vomiting with metoclopramide in combination with prochlorperazine. This syndrome was more severe than is typically seen in drug-induced extrapyramidal syndromes and may have contributed to her death. The extreme severity of this disorder was probably related to the use of a combination of dopamine antagonists in a patient who had premorbid cerebral dysfunction. Although dopamine antagonists should always be used with caution in individuals with cerebral dysfunction, this particular combination of antiemetics should probably be avoided in such patients. 
Cardiac anaesthesia in a patient with myotonic dystrophy. We describe a patient with myotonic dystrophy who required open-heart surgery for an atrial septal defect. He also had a sick sinus syndrome and an abnormal myocardium on histological examination. Anaesthesia using fentanyl, droperidol, nitrous oxide and a low concentration of enflurane was uneventful. Atelectasis of the left lung developed on the first postoperative day after removal of the tracheal tube. This was successfully treated by fibreoptic bronchoscopy. 
Respiratory compliance during sedation, anesthesia, and paralysis in infants and young children. Although total respiratory compliance (Crs) has been shown to fall in adults on induction of halothane anesthesia, no successful paired studies have been reported in children. The multiple occlusion technique was used to measure Crs in 17 infants and young children during sedated sleep (CrsS) and shortly after, following induction of halothane anesthesia (CrsA). Crs fell in all but one infant after induction of anesthesia, with a mean fall of 34.7% (range 0-58%). This was accompanied by a reduction in tidal volume and increase in frequency in every case. In 7 of the 17 children, who were to be paralyzed for surgical purposes, Crs was also measured in this anesthetized-paralyzed state. When tidal volume administered during manual ventilation was similar to that observed during measurement of CrsA, Crs during this low-volume ventilation was similar to CrsA. When tidal volume was increased and Crs remeasured, there was a significant increase in every case, with the high-volume Crs within 10% of CrsS in all but one child, in whom there was a 31.4% increase with respect to CrsS. Changes in tidal volume accounted for approximately 50% of the variability in each state. These results demonstrate a highly significant fall in Crs in infants and young children after induction of halothane anesthesia. In addition it appears that this reduction in Crs can be reversed by paralyzing the child and manually ventilating with tidal volumes approximating those seen during sedation. 
Thrombolytic and pharmacokinetic properties of chimeric tissue-type and urokinase-type plasminogen activators. BACKGROUND. Chimeric molecules comprising the A-chain of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and the catalytic domain of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) have intact enzymatic characteristics of u-PA, partial fibrin-binding properties of t-PA, and thrombolytic properties in animal models comparable with but not superior to those of single-chain u-PA (scu-PA). Deletion of the finger and growth factor domains (t-PA-delta FE/scu-PA-e) in such chimeras further reduces their affinity for fibrin. METHODS AND RESULTS. A detailed investigation of the thrombolytic potency and the pharmacokinetics of t-PA and u-PA chimeras was performed in quantitative animal models for thrombolysis. In hamsters with pulmonary embolism, in rabbits with jugular vein thrombosis, and in baboons with femoral vein thrombosis, the thrombolytic potency (percent lysis per milligram of compound administered per kilogram of body weight) of t-PA-delta FE/scu-PA-e was significantly higher than that of recombinant scu-PA (rscu-PA, Saruplase) as shown by a maximal rate of 720 +/- 170% versus 45 +/- 5% lysis per milligram of compound per kilogram of body weight (mean +/- SEM, p less than 0.01) in hamsters, 210 +/- 18% versus 49 +/- 3% lysis per milligram of compound per kilogram of body weight (mean +/- SEM, p less than 0.01) in rabbits, and 310 +/- 73% versus 90 +/- 0.3% lysis per milligram of compound per kilogram of body weight (p less than 0.01) in baboons. However, the specific thrombolytic activity (percent lysis per microgram per milliliter steady-state plasma antigen level) of t-PA-delta FE/scu-PA-e was not significantly different from that of rscu-PA in hamsters (210 +/- 57% versus 160 +/- 27% lysis per microgram per milliliter antigen level) and was lower than that of rscu-PA in rabbits (37 +/- 4% versus 130 +/- 5% lysis per microgram per milliliter antigen level; p less than 0.01). In dogs with a combined femoral vein blood clot and a platelet-rich femoral arterial eversion graft thrombosis, 0.25 mg/kg body wt bolus injections of t-PA-delta FE/scu-PA-e produced significantly more venous clot lysis (90 +/- 5%, n = 10) than 0.25 mg/kg rscu-PA (26 +/- 3%, n = 10) (p less than 0.001) and, at the arterial side, more frequent (10 of 10 dogs versus three of 10 dogs) and more persistent (six of 10 dogs versus none of 10 dogs) recanalization (p = 0.002). After bolus injection in hamsters, rabbits, or baboons, t-PA-delta FE/scu-PA-e had a fourfold to sixfold longer initial half-life than rscu-PA and a slower plasma clearance of sixfold in hamsters, 10-fold in rabbits, and more than 10-fold in baboons. CONCLUSIONS. These results indicate that t-PA-delta FE/scu-PA-e has a markedly enhanced thrombolytic potency toward venous and arterial thrombi caused by a delayed in vivo clearance with relatively maintained specific thrombolytic activity. These properties suggest that the chimera may be clinically useful for thrombolytic therapy by bolus administration in patients with thromboembolic disease. 
The effect of steroid therapy on recovery from tonsillectomy in children. A prospective, randomized, double-blind study to determine the postoperative effects of steroids in tonsillectomy was performed on 25 children from 4 to 12 years of age. A single intravenous dose of dexamethasone or a placebo was administered at onset of surgery. Other preoperative and postoperative medications, including antibiotics, anesthesia, and surgical techniques were standardized as noted in this article. The ability to return to a full or semifull diet occurred on the third and fourth postoperative days, significantly sooner in the steroid-treated patients than in the control patients. By the fifth and sixth days, the control group were eating as well as those children who received steroids. No significant differences were observed in postoperative pain, nausea, emesis, fever, or in the need for postoperative pain medications. This preliminary article concludes that a single preoperative dose of steroid results in an earlier return to a normal (full) diet in children who had undergone tonsillectomy. 
Heterogeneity of epithelial marker expression in routinely processed, poorly differentiated carcinomas. The application of immunohistochemical markers against epithelial antigens has proved useful for studying tumor differentiation and in aiding tumor diagnosis. However, the reactivity of various epithelial markers with poorly differentiated carcinomas (the situation in which they are most often used) has not been well established. As a result, it is unclear how negative results should be interpreted and how often more than one antibody may be needed to document the epithelial nature of poorly differentiated neoplasms. We studied 98 poorly differentiated epithelial tumors with AE1, CAM 5.2, and EMA to assess the use of these markers in their diagnosis. Both CAM 5.2 and EMA provided support for epithelial differentiation in 71% (70/98) of the cases, while AE1 stained 50% (49/98) of the tumors; CAM 5.2 was the single most useful marker in the subset of poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas, staining 20 (77%) of 26 tumors. Use of these markers in pairs increased the recognition of epithelial differentiation (at least one marker showing positive staining) as follows: AE1/CAM 5.2, 80% (78/98); AE1/EMA, 87% (85/98); and CAM 5.2/EMA, 99% (97/98). Thirty carcinomas stained with all three markers, 34 with two markers, and in 34 cases only one antibody supported epithelial differentiation. Twelve (21%) of 58 tumors showed evidence of S100 reactivity. None of the 71 cases to which PD7 was applied showed staining This study indicates that poorly differentiated carcinomas are heterogeneous in their expression of antigens recognized by AE1, CAM 5.2, and EMA. Moreover, these results quantitate the probability of reactivity with poorly differentiated carcinomas for each marker and support the use of one or more antibodies in a "backup" panel when a negative result is obtained with a single antibody and the diagnosis of carcinoma is still suspected. 
Hyperbaric treatment of cerebral air embolism sustained during an open-heart surgical procedure A case of cerebral air embolism sustained during replacement of the mitral valve resulted in postoperative coma and seizures. Hyperbaric treatment, begun 30 hours after the occurrence of the air embolism, resulted in good immediate and long-term recovery. Mild deficits of the left hemisphere were present at follow-up 53 days after the embolus was sustained, and lesser, minimal residua were present at 14-month follow-up. Hyperbaric treatment is the definitive therapy for cerebral air embolism. Although it is most effective when administered early, the outcome may be excellent even with late treatment. 
Echocardiographic detection of coronary artery disease during dobutamine infusion. BACKGROUND. Two-dimensional echocardiography performed during dobutamine infusion has been proposed as a potentially useful method for detecting coronary artery disease. However, the safety and diagnostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography has not been established. METHODS AND RESULTS. In this study, echocardiograms were recorded during step-wise infusion of dobutamine to a maximum dose of 30 micrograms/kg/min in 103 patients who also underwent quantitative coronary angiography. The echocardiograms were digitally stored and displayed in a format that allowed simultaneous analysis of rest and stress images. Development of a new abnormality in regional function was used as an early end point for the dobutamine infusion. No patient had a symptomatic arrhythmia or complications from stress-induced ischemia. Significant coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis) was present in 35 of 55 patients who had normal echocardiograms at rest. The sensitivity and specificity of dobutamine-induced wall motion abnormalities for coronary artery disease was 89% (31 of 35) and 85% (17 of 20), respectively. The sensitivity was 81% (17 of 21) in those with one-vessel disease and 100% (14 of 14) in those with multivessel or left main disease. Forty-one of 48 patients with abnormal echocardiograms at baseline had localized rest wall motion abnormalities. Fifteen had coronary artery disease confined to regions that had abnormal rest wall motion, and 26 had disease remote from these regions. Thirteen of 15 patients (87%) without remote disease did not develop remote stress-induced abnormalities, and 21 of 26 (81%) who had remote disease developed corresponding abnormalities. CONCLUSIONS. Echocardiography combined with dobutamine infusion is a safe and accurate method for detecting coronary artery disease and for predicting the extent of disease in those who have localized rest wall motion abnormalities. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus presenting as an intracranial bleed. A previously healthy 12-year-old girl presented with fever and mental status changes without focal neurologic deficit. A CBC and computed tomography scan revealed thrombocytopenia and an intracranial bleed. Further laboratory studies were consistent with systemic lupus erythematosus. This case emphasizes the need to maintain a high index of suspicion for atypical presentations of an uncommon childhood illness. 
Late cardiac tamponade after open-heart surgery. Late cardiac tamponade occurred in 74 patients 5-287 (median 16) days after open-heart surgery and was treated with pericardiocentesis or surgery. The overall incidence of late cardiac tamponade was 1.3%. After valve operations it was 2.6% and after isolated coronary surgery 0.7% (53/2,028 vs. 18/2,661, p less than 0.002). The diagnosis was assessed by echocardiography in 93% of cases. Pericardiocentesis, attempted in 65 cases (88%), was curative in 80% but failed in 20%. Eight of the latter 13 underwent emergency surgery and five were medically treated. Failure of pericardiocentesis was associated with posterior location of fluid, clots, echo-free space less than 20 mm or myocardial insufficiency. The subxiphoid part of the wound was surgically re-entered in ten cases and the entire sternotomy in seven. Four patients (5%) died within 30 days of the primary intervention. All hospital survivors were observed for a median of 44 (range 11-115) months. Three (4%) had recurrent pericardial effusion requiring repeat pericardiocentesis, but none had pericardial constriction. The 5-year survival rate was 73%. 
A community-based study of incidence, risk factors and outcome of transient ischaemic attacks in Umbria, Italy: the SEPIVAC study. The SEPIVAC study is a community-based epidemiological survey of incidence and outcome of transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) and strokes in the territory of the 6th Local Health Unit, Umbria, Italy, where 49,218 people live, from 1 September 1986 to 31 August 1989. All cases were registered with the study either by notification from general practitioners (GPs) or by a check of hospital admission within the study area and in the two hospitals of Perugia. There were 94 incident cases of TIAs (45 males, 49 females), thus giving a crude rate of 0.64 per 1000 per year [95% conficence intervals (CI) 0.52/0.78]. The rate adjusted to the European population is 0.42 (CI 0.33/0.54). Mean age was 69.4 years, and females were significantly older than males. The weighted relative risk for males was 1.19 (CI 0.79/1.79). Thirty-one patients were treated at home by their GPs. Females had hypertension more frequently than males, whereas males smoked more frequently; we did not find any other statistically significant difference in the distribution of risk factors. Twelve patients out of 58 who had CT had an infarct, and 29 out of 54 submitted to Doppler ultrasonography had carotid stenosis. At 1 month, 4 patients had suffered an ischaemic stroke, 1 of whom died. At 6 months, 3 further strokes and 2 further deaths (1 due to myocardial infarction) had occurred. 
A dose-response study of nalbuphine for post-thoracotomy epidural analgesia. The analgesic efficacy and side-effects of epidural nalbuphine (0.075-0.3 mg.kg-1) were compared with epidural morphine 0.1 mg.kg-1 in a randomised double-blind study in post-thoracotomy patients. The drugs were administered via a lumbar epidural catheter one hour before the end of surgery. Efficacy was assessed using visual analogue pain scores and supplementary iv fentanyl requirements; respiratory function was studied with an inductive plethysmograph and arterial blood gas analysis; and plasma nalbuphine levels were measured. Pain scores and fentanyl supplementation were lowest in the morphine group (P less than 0.01). No dose-response effect was apparent in the nalbuphine dose-range studied. Respiratory depression was more common in patients receiving morphine (higher mean PaCO2P less than 0.01, more frequent apnoeas greater than 15 sec P less than 0.05, and incidence of PaCO2 greater than 50 mmHg requiring naloxone P less than 0.01). There were no differences in haemodynamic variables, sedation, or other side-effects among the groups. The pharmacokinetic profile of epidural nalbuphine was similar to that seen with rapid iv injection. The results indicate that, relative to morphine, lumbar epidural nalbuphine is an ineffective analgesic after thoracotomy. Despite the lower incidence of respiratory depression its administration by this route cannot be recommended. 
The human hematopoietic progenitor cell antigen (CD34) in vascular neoplasia. The human hematopoietic progenitor cell antigen CD34 is synthesized and expressed by early normal hematopoietic progenitor cells and by many acute leukemias. Anti-CD34 antibodies also have been reported to stain blood vessels in tissue sections, and, more recently, CD34 mRNA has been detected in vascular endothelial cells. Therefore, the authors studied the diagnostic utility of immunohistochemical CD34 antigen detection in tumors of endothelial cell derivation and compared the results with stains for von Willebrand (vW) factor. A wide variety of epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasms also were examined to assess the specificity of CD34 for vascular neoplasia. Seven cases of angiosarcoma (seven of seven), five cases of Kaposi's sarcoma (five of five), and eight cases of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (eight of eight) were moderately to strongly positive for CD34. This reactivity was equally intense in frozen sections, alcohol-fixed tissue, and formalin-fixed specimens. In many cases, the malignant endothelial cells stained more strongly than adjacent benign endothelium. Moreover, in most cases CD34 positivity was quantitatively and qualitatively stronger than staining for vW factor. Two cases of hemangiopericytoma (two of two) were CD34 positive but stained less intensely than the angiosarcomas, Kaposi's sarcomas, or hemangioendotheliomas. Five of six cases of hemangioma also stained positively for CD34; the nonreactive tumor in this group was the only one among 28 vascular neoplasms studied that was not reactive for CD34. In comparison, 9 of the 28 vascular tumors did not stain for vW factor. Three hundred fifty-seven tumors of nonvascular derivation also were examined for CD34 antigen expression. Focal light staining was seen in one pulmonary squamous cell carcinoma; moderate to intense staining was observed in half of the epithelioid sarcomas studied (8 of 16) and in a minority of leiomyosarcomas (3 of 22). These findings indicate that CD34 is a sensitive and relatively specific marker for neoplasms of vascular origin. 
Prevalence of HIV, hepatitis B and associated risk behaviours in clients of a needle-exchange in central London. In order to determine the prevalence of risk behaviour for, and antibodies to HIV and hepatitis B in clients of a needle-exchange scheme in central London we employed an anonymous, self-administered questionnaire along with salivary antibody testing by immunoglobulin (Ig) G antibody capture immunoassay. Two hundred and thirty-two subjects (193 men, 39 women; median age 32) participated; a response rate of 89%. Clients were long-term, frequent injectors. Lending used equipment at any time was reported by 55%, and borrowing by 52%. Of those who had shared needles and syringes during the last year, the majority had lent to, or borrowed from, one person only (53 and 55%, respectively). Younger clients (less than 29 years of age) reported more recent sharing than older clients (greater than 30 years of age). Five out of 211 (2.4%) samples tested for anti-HIV were positive. One hundred and eleven out of 199 (56%) samples were positive for anti-hepatitis B core (HBc). In this population of needle-exchange attenders there is no evidence of further spread of HIV, and a low prevalence of HIV infection appears to have been sustained. However, the high prevalence of anti-HBc provides evidence of previous risk behaviour and so constant vigilance is necessary if further viral spread is to be avoided. This study has established an acceptable method for the anonymous surveillance of current risk behaviour and salivary antibodies to HIV and hepatitis B virus (HBV) in a drug-using population. 
Conventional screen/film vs reduced exposure photostimulable phosphor plate imaging in lower extremity venography: an ROC analysis. Half-exposure phosphor plates used in venography substantially reduce the total X-ray exposure to a patient while increasing the chance that all images will be of excellent diagnostic quality. Simultaneous half-exposure phosphor plate and full-exposure conventional screen/film venograms were obtained of 35 patients and compared by using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The area under the ROC curve ranged from 0.67 to 0.78 for conventional films and 0.68 to 0.91 for phosphor plates. Group performances on conventional films vs phosphor plates were not statistically different. No statistically significant difference in individual performance with the two techniques was seen in seven of the eight interpreters at the 95% confidence level. The eighth interpreter performed significantly better with phosphor plates than with conventional films. Interpreters with and without specific experience in phosphor plate venography were grouped separately, and performance of the two groups was compared in each technique. No difference in performance was found between the groups when interpreting conventional venograms, but, when interpreting phosphor plate venograms, the group with specific experience performed significantly better than they had with conventional venograms, and significantly better than the other group did at interpreting either conventional or phosphor plate venograms. We conclude that phosphor plate venograms made at a 50% reduction in X-ray exposure are equal to, and may surpass, conventional screen/film venograms for diagnosing acute venous thrombosis of the calf and thigh. We recommend expanding the indications for phosphor plate radiography to include contrast venography of the lower extremities. 
Sulphadiazine desensitization in patients with AIDS and cerebral toxoplasmosis. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the efficacy of a sulphadiazine desensitization protocol to treat patients with AIDS and cerebral toxoplasmosis (CT) and known sulphonamide allergy, to ensure that an adequate dose of sulphadiazine (2-4 g/day) was achieved rapidly (within 4-5 days), and to assess the effect of concurrent corticosteroid (CS) administration on the success rate of the regimen. Sixteen patients with CT and a past history or current manifestations of sulphonamide allergy were desensitized to sulphadiazine from October 1988 to December 1989. The protocol employed the oral administration of gradually increasing increments of sulphadiazine 3-hourly over 5 days. Success was defined as tolerance of 2-4 g oral sulphadiazine per day for at least 7 days until death or the present time without any allergic reactions. Our success rated overall was 10 out of 16 patients (62%). Seven patients achieved a final dose of 4 g/day and three a dose of 2 g/day. Concurrent CS administration did not appear to affect the outcome in the small number of patients studied. Our sulphadiazine regimen rapidly, successfully and safely desensitized patients with CT and sulphonamide allergy, allowing the optimal first-line treatment to continue. The aetiology of allergy in HIV-infected patients and the mechanisms by which desensitization works are unknown. 
Transureteroureterostomy and terminal loop cutaneous ureterostomy in advanced pelvic malignancies. Transureteroureterostomy was combined with terminal loop cutaneous ureterostomy, without complications, in 8 patients with advanced pelvic malignancy and a poor prognosis. Urinary diversion was palliative in all patients and followed pelvic exenteration in 4, debulking of pelvic tumor in 2 and radical cystectomy in 1, while 1 had inoperable bladder cancer. All patients had at least unilateral hydroureteronephrosis preoperatively. In each case a postoperative excretory urogram revealed significant improvement of the hydroureteronephrosis and the serum creatinine improved or stabilized. No patient had ureteral stomal stenosis or retraction. Mean survival was 5 months, with the longest survival being 1 year. Transureteroureterostomy in conjunction with terminal loop cutaneous ureterostomy is an effective technique of urinary diversion in selected patients with a poor prognosis and advanced pelvic malignancy, decreasing operative time while avoiding the morbidity associated with a ureterointestinal operation or nephrostomy. 
Effect of a new synthetic ascorbic acid derivative as a free radical scavenger on the development of acute pancreatitis in mice. The therapeutic effects of CV 3611, a new synthetic free radical scavenger prepared from an ascorbic acid derivative, on choline deficient, ethionine enriched (CDE) diet induced acute pancreatitis in mice were evaluated and compared with those of superoxide dismutase. Time/course studies after subcutaneous injection of CV 3611 in normal mice showed a peak plasma concentration of mean (SEM) 0.54 (0.09) micrograms/ml at one hour, with a gradual decrease over the next 10 hours, while a peak concentration in pancreatic tissue of mean (SEM) 425 (33) ng/g tissue was achieved at three hours and the drug was undetectable at 12 hours. Survival rates and activities of pancreatic enzymes (amylase, lipase, elastase I) were compared in control mice and animals that received CV 3611 before or at the time of feeding the CDE diet. The survival rate was observed in a no treatment group and mice given pretreatment or treatment with CV 3611 or superoxide dismutase. The survival rate was significantly better in the treatment group given CV 3611 (p less than 0.02), but superoxide dismutase had no significant effect on survival. The increases in the three serum enzyme activities were significantly less at 48 hours in the groups given pretreatment or treatment with CV 3611 than in the no treatment group. These results indicate that CV 3611, which has been proved to pass through the cell membrane and to have a long half life in plasma and tissue, had an important therapeutic effect on the development of acute pancreatitis. They also suggest that oxygen derived free radicals may play an important role in the development of acute pancreatitis. 
Postheparin plasma diamine oxidase values in the follow up of patients with small bowel Crohn's disease. Measurement of postheparin plasma diamine oxidase (PHD) activity has been proposed to assess mucosal integrity in several diseases of the small intestine. In Crohn's disease, PHD values identify a group of patients with predominantly small bowel mucosal damage. To determine the role of mucosal involvement in the progression of small bowel Crohn's disease and whether different PHD values can predict different outcomes the changes in PHD values in 41 patients with small bowel Crohn's disease admitted consecutively to our department were investigated. The test was performed during periods of active disease and after either medical or surgical treatment had resulted in improvement. PHD values were significantly lower than in normal subjects (normal range 3.7-7.7 U/ml). In 35 patients with active disease (Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) greater than 150) two groups were identified by choosing a cut off value of 2 U/ml: 93% of the 15 patients with PHD values lower than 2 U/ml (mean (SD) 1.36 (0.46) U/ml) relapsed at least once in the following year, while only the 20% of the 20 whose values were higher than 2 U/ml (mean (SD) 3.69 (1.50)) relapsed in the same period. The data were statistically significant (Yates's corrected chi 2 = 15.63; p less than 0.0001). The positive and negative predictive values of the test were 93% and 80%, respectively. During relapses, PHD values were consistently lower than previous values, and increased significantly after effective medical or surgical treatment. In the six patients in whom there were no changes in disease activity (CDAI persistently less than 150), there was no change in PHD values. 
Factors influencing outcome of prednisone dose reduction in myasthenia gravis. We reviewed retrospectively 114 prednisone dose reduction attempts in 63 myasthenic patients. Dose reduction was considered successful if a patient remained asymptomatic for more than 1 year on no prednisone or a stable low dose of prednisone. Successful dose reduction attempts were more common in patients taking azathioprine, but thymectomy did not influence taper outcome. Slower rate of dose reduction and higher ending dose of prednisone improved the chance of success. 
Revision osteoarticular allograft transplantation in weight-bearing joints. A clinical review. The early results of revision osteoarticular allografts in weight-bearing joints are reported. Sixteen consecutive patients underwent surgery over a six-year period between 1982 and 1988. At the time of review eight patients (50%) had surviving second allografts with an average follow-up time of 48 months (range 12 to 87). Five patients were graded excellent according to the Mankin scale, one good and two fair. Eight patients (50%) required further surgery, but only two patients came to amputation. 
Controlled clinical trials of drug treatment for hypertension. A review. We reviewed the designs and major results of 17 large-scale, controlled, clinical trials that reported the effects of drug treatment for hypertension on morbidity or mortality. Seven trials conducted in study populations with more-severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressures 100-120 mm Hg or higher), including the more-severe stratum of the Veterans Administration Trial, showed large reductions in stroke, other "hypertensive" events, and, in one trial, total mortality. Of 11 trials in populations with less-severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressures predominantly below 105 mm Hg), including the less-severe stratum of the Veterans Administration Trial, nine met the criteria for pooling of results. Among the aggregate 43,000 patients in the nine trials who were followed up for an average of 5.6 years, mean diastolic blood pressure reduction was 5.8 mm Hg, and a significant 11% reduction in total mortality was observed. This benefit was largely attributable to a 38% reduction in fatal strokes; nonfatal strokes were similarly reduced. Coronary heart disease mortality was 8% lower in drug treatment than in control groups, but this difference was not significant. A similar result was observed for combined coronary mortality and nonfatal myocardial infarction. A possible explanation for the inconclusive result regarding coronary end points was an adverse trend, observed in several trials, in a subgroup with baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities. Because all the trials except the propranolol arm of the Medical Research Council trial used drug regimens based on thiazide-like diuretic agents, and because there are now several new drug classes proposed as initial therapy, additional large-scale clinical trials may need to be considered. 
Resting energy expenditure in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Resting energy expenditure (REE) was determined in 30 patients with newly detected non-small cell lung cancer. Measured values were compared with the values predicted by the Harris-Benedict (HB) formula. Mean REE was 20% higher than predicted. Sixty percent of the patients (18 patients) had an elevated REE (greater than or equal to 115%) compared with this formula. The prevalence of hypermetabolism in a group of patients with gastric and colorectal cancer was only 13% (13 of 104 patients). When corrected for fat-free mass (FFM), REE was still significantly higher (P less than 0.001) in the lung cancer group compared with the gastric and colorectal cancer group. Whereas weight loss in healthy men leads to an adaptational decrease in energy expenditure (EE), weight loss in the patients with lung cancer was accompanied by an increase in REE. Tumor stage, tumor localization, pulmonary function, or smoking behavior could not explain the observed increase in REE in patients with lung cancer. Therefore, these metabolic alterations appear to be tumor mediated. 
Gastric leiomyosarcoma. Prognostic factors and surgical management. Information on gastric leiomyosarcoma, such as important prognostic factors, patterns of disease recurrence, and optimal methods of treatment, are derived from limited patient experience. We address these questions, with specific focus on whether an advantage could be demonstrated for radical resection compared with wide local excision, by retrospectively investigating 53 patients who underwent surgical treatment at Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Abdominal pain and/or gastrointestinal bleeding associated with an intramural or exogastric mass were typical features of this disease. Only tumor size and histologic grade were statistically significant prognostic factors. With analysis of survival curves and patterns of recurrence, neither the addition of lymphadenectomy nor the wider tumor-free margins of a radical gastrectomy seemed superior to the more conservative local excision. Therefore, wide local excision remains the preferred treatment when technically feasible. 
Alveolitis correlates with clinical pulmonary involvement in primary Sjogren's syndrome. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed in 23 patients with primary Sjogren's syndrome (1Ss) and ten healthy controls to evaluate alveolitis and correlate it with pulmonary and systemic manifestations. Patients with 1Ss had higher BAL total cell count (9.2 +/- 6.7 millions/ml vs 6.1 +/- 2.9 millions/ml) and higher percentage of lymphocytes 23.3 +/- 15.6 percent vs 6.5 +/- 2.9 percent, p less than 0.001) than controls. Twelve patients (group A) constituted the "high alveolitis" group (lymphocytes greater than 15.2 percent) and ten (group B) constituted the "low alveolitis" group (lymphocytes less than 15.2 percent). Group A had more frequent cough (6/12 vs 2/10, p = 0.07), dyspnea (4/12 vs 1/10), and roentgenologic evidence of interstitial lung disease (5/12 vs 0/10, p less than 0.05). They also had lower total lung capacity (85.6 +/- 14.2 percent pred vs 105.8 +/- 23.3 percent pred, p less than 0.05) and Dco (87.7 +/- 20.6 percent pred vs 103.6 +/- 21.0 percent pred). All patients with +3 or +4 grading or lymphocytic infiltrates in lip biopsy specimen belonged in group A (5/12). Finally, T-helper/T-suppressor ratio was lower in group A than in group B. The intensity of alveolitis was not correlated with clinical or serologic manifestations of systemic disease. 
Comparison of exercise radionuclide angiography with thallium SPECT imaging for detection of significant narrowing of the left circumflex coronary artery. Although quantitation of exercise thallium tomograms has enhanced the noninvasive diagnosis and localization of coronary artery disease, the detection of stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery remains suboptimal. Because posterolateral regional wall motion during exercise is well assessed by radionuclide angiography, this study determined whether regional dysfunction of the posterolateral wall during exercise radionuclide angiography is more sensitive in identifying left circumflex disease than thallium perfusion abnormalities assessed by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). One hundred ten consecutive patients with CAD were studied, of whom 70 had a significant stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery or a major obtuse marginal branch. Both regional function and segmental thallium activity of the posterolateral wall were assessed using visual and quantitative analysis. Left ventricular regional function was assessed objectively by dividing the left ventricular region of interest into 20 sectors; the 8 sectors corresponding to the posterolateral free wall were used to assess function in the left circumflex artery distribution. Similarly, using circumferential profile analysis of short-axis thallium tomograms, left ventricular myocardial activity was subdivided into 64 sectors; the 16 sectors corresponding to the posterolateral region were used to assess thallium perfusion abnormalities in the left circumflex artery territory. Qualitative posterolateral wall motion analysis detected 76% of patients with left circumflex coronary artery stenosis, with a specificity of 83%, compared with only 44% by qualitative thallium tomography (p less than 0.001) and a specificity of 92%. Whereas quantitation of thallium activity increased the sensitivity for detecting left circumflex coronary artery stenosis to 80% with a specificity of 55%, it did not achieve statistical significance when compared with qualitative wall motion analysis. 
Cerebrovascular hemodynamic changes associated with carotid endarterectomy. To evaluate the effect of carotid surgery on the cerebral circulation, transcranial Doppler sonography and ocular pneumoplethysmography were performed on 36 patients who underwent unilateral carotid endarterectomy. Ocular pneumoplethysmography and transcranial Doppler sonography tests were performed within a week before and after operation, and transcranial Doppler sonography was repeated greater than or equal to 30 days after operation. Middle and anterior cerebral arteries were insonated bilaterally, and flow velocities ipsilateral (iMCAFV or iACAFV) and contralateral (cMCAFV or cACAFV) to the side of surgery were recorded. The iMCAFV and iACAFV increased significantly in the immediate postoperative period, and the iMCAFV remained elevated on the second follow-up study. Patients with greater than or equal to 75% ipsilateral carotid stenosis (N = 23) had increased iMCAFV, iACAFV, and decreased cACAFV after operation, whereas those with less than 75% stenosis (N = 13) had no significant transcranial Doppler sonography changes. Those with greater than or equal to 75% contralateral carotid stenosis (N = 17) had significant increases in iMCAFV, cMCAFV, and iACAFV after operation, whereas those with less than 75% contralateral carotid stenosis had no significant transcranial Doppler sonography changes. A subset of patients (N = 13) did not increase iMCAFV after surgery. The ocular pneumoplethysmography changes were significantly different in both groups when preoperative and postoperative values were compared. We conclude that carotid endarterectomy can cause lasting cerebral hemodynamic changes, but that its effects are not uniform among all patients. 
Ischaemic myelopathy secondary to disseminated intravascular coagulation in AIDS. A 39-year-old patient with AIDS presented with a rapidly progressive myelopathy with a partial Brown-Sequard syndrome. He died, 9 weeks after onset of the first neurological signs, from diffuse encephalopathy. Neuropathological examination revealed multiple, usually small, frequently haemorrhagic, infarcts or various ages and numerous fibrin thrombi in medium and small penetrating vessels and capillaries of the brain and spinal cord, characteristic of disseminated intravascular coagulation. There were no inflammatory changes. Immunohistochemical studies for human immunodeficiency virus, cytomegalovirus, varicella zoster virus, herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 were negative. Ischaemic spinal cord lesions due to disseminated intravascular coagulation may represent an unusual cause of focal, non-inflammatory, non-tumoral, myelopathic syndrome in AIDS. 
Papaveretum infusions in infants under 6 months of age. The effectiveness of a continuous low dose papaveretum infusion for the relief of postoperative pain was assessed in 29 infants aged 1-6 months nursed on the infant surgical ward following major abdominal surgery. Trained nursing staff were able to adjust the dosage within prescribed guidelines and satisfactory analgesia was obtained with a regimen which delivered up to 0.0375 mg/kg/hour, approximately half the dose recommended in children older than 12 months. There was one case of clinically significant respiratory depression. 
Nonparallel effects of renin inhibitor treatment on plasma renin activity and angiotensins I and II in hypertensive subjects. An assay-related artifact. Nonparallel effects of renin inhibitor treatment on plasma renin activity (PRA) and the plasma levels of angiotensins (ANG), as well as on blood pressure, have been observed in subjects with hypertension. This study addresses the possibility that renin inhibitors may show a high degree of plasma protein binding in vivo and that displacement of protein-bound inhibitor during the assay of PRA in vitro may lead to overestimation of renin inhibition. Indeed, with the ultrafiltration technique it was found that 96% of the novel renin inhibitor Ro 42-5892, when added to EDTA plasma, was bound to protein. The angiotensinase inhibitors phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) and 8-hydroxy-quinoline sulfate (8-OHQ), which are currently used in PRA assays, caused a displacement of protein-bound inhibitor, thereby increasing its free concentration. This displacement was sufficient to explain the reduction in IC 50 of Ro 42-5892, which was seen in the PRA assay when PMSF and 8-OHQ were added to plasma. Such reductions in IC 50 were also seen with the renin inhibitors CGP 29-287, CGP 38-560A, and SR 43-845. When Ro 42-5892 was given, 1 mg/kg intravenously in 10 min, to subjects with hypertension, it appeared that plasma ANG I and II returned to baseline after 6-8 h, whereas PRA measured in the presence of PMSF and 8-OHQ was still suppressed. However, when PRA was measured without these angiotensinase inhibitors, the inhibition of PRA was parallel to the suppression of ANG I and II. 
Internal mammary artery to lung parenchyma fistula after aortocoronary bypass grafting. Two unusual cases of internal mammary artery fistulization to lung parenchyma after coronary revascularization are reported. They were incidentally discovered during coronary angiography, and one of them was successfully closed with a percutaneous transvenous coil-spring occluder. The cause is thought to be the direct contact between the dissected mammary artery pedicle and the lung parenchyma. 
Quickscan: Doppler ultrasound emulation of angiography--its value prior to arteriography in peripheral vascular disease. The prevalence of peripheral vascular disease demands a quick, reliable, non-invasive technique for initial assessment. We have devised a new method which combines the two physical principles that (1) Doppler shift is proportional to blood velocity and (2) blood velocity is inversely proportional to arterial cross-section with the ability to track probe position using a non-contacting method. An image of the probe track and any arterial narrowing is shown superimposed on an outline of the patient. Pressure measurement, scan and graphics with final report take about 20 minutes. The accuracy of this system in peripheral vascular disease was evaluated. Thirty-one patients underwent quickscan (QS) and arteriography within an average time of 7 days. Abdominal aorta, common iliac-common femoral, superficial femoral and popliteal artery segments were graded independently as normal, significant stenosis (greater than 50% of diameter) or occluded by both techniques. Of 197 segments, QS correctly assessed 106 normal, 22 stenosed and 28 occluded segments. Four equivocal angiographic stenoses were normal on QS and three severe stenoses were graded occlusion. Fifteen segments on angiography and five on QS were not assessed. For the iliac and superficial femoral artery segments, sensitivity and specificity averaged 77% and 86%, respectively, for all grades. Aortic statistics were invalid (only one significant lesion). Six out of eight popliteal occlusions were correctly diagnosed by QS, but no popliteal stenoses were detected out of six shown on arteriography. Low numbers may contribute to this discrepancy but an improved popliteal scanning method may be necessary. We find initial QS an invaluable aid to direct percutaneous angiography and to indicate potential sites for angioplasty. 
Resection and reconstruction of the carotid bifurcation with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts; operative technique. Preliminary results in 25 procedures and indications. Although carotid endarterectomy is the standard procedure, the purpose of this paper is to describe a new surgical technique and indicate its role in the surgery of cervical cerebrovascular disease. The technique consists of resection of the pathologic carotid artery bifurcation followed by its total replacement with a bifurcated thin-wall polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) graft constructed by the surgeon. Prosthetic graft reconstruction of the carotid bifurcation (PGRCB) was performed in 21 patients (25 procedures) from November 1984 to May 1987. Many patients were over 70 years old. The indications for surgery were transient ischemic attacks (TIA)'s in 10 patients (high-grade stenosis), established stroke with mild deficit in 3 patients (high-grade stenosis). Eight patients (high-grade stenosis) were asymptomatic and 4 had vertebro-basilar symptoms. In 11 procedures the indications were the same as for standard carotid endarterectomy (significant stenosis and/or ulcerated plaque). In 14 cases, the procedure was justified by extensive lesions involving a long segment of the internal carotid artery (2 restenoses, 12 calcified lesions). In the perioperative period, there were no deaths and no TIA's. The 25 procedures were assessed one month postoperatively by ultrasonic imaging and venous substraction angiography. All the grafts were patent with perfect restoration of the carotid bifurcation anatomy. Systematic follow-up study was carried out in 1987. Three patients had died of non-neurologic causes and one was lost to study. The remaining 19 procedures were evaluated with an average follow-up of 19 months (range 7 to 32 months). The patients were asymptomatic and all the grafts remained patent including one stenosis (greater than 50%) at the common carotid artery anastomosis. Because recent studies have documented a much higher rate of technical defects or recurrent stenosis after carotid endarterectomy, we believe that PGRCB merits consideration, particularly in difficult endarterectomies, and in recurrent carotid stenosis. Furthermore it seems acceptable to advocate PGRCB in aneurysms of the internal carotid artery and in post-irradiation arteritis. 
Structural abnormalities of the craniofacial complex and congenital malformations. This article was meant to be a very cursory survey of the multiple defects that abnormal development can produce in all areas of the craniofacial complex. Careful examination for these abnormalities should lead the clinician to earlier referral of patients for additional examination by a genetics team. This often enables more focused care for the individual and better counseling concerning future pregnancies. Aase points out that "funny looking face" or "syndromic facies" is no longer helpful. Accurate assessment of the face with measurement leads to better diagnosis and ultimately better patient care. All children with facial defects deserve early intervention by a multidisciplined craniofacial team including geneticists, surgeons, dentists, speech pathologists, and other specialists. Part of the process of early referral to this team involves early detection and recognition in the neonatal period. It is hoped that this article stimulates the pediatrician to be aware of these abnormalities, recognize their importance, and seek additional help for patients, no matter what their age. 
Immaturity and aneuploidy in human oocytes after different stimulation protocols. OBJECTIVE: To study immaturity and aneuploidy in human oocytes after two different stimulation protocols. DESIGN: Retrospective. SETTING: Outpatient IVF clinic/laboratory. PATIENTS: One hundred forty-three patients of whom 65 were stimulated with clomiphene citrate (CC)/human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) and 78 were stimulated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a)/hMG. Only patients with at least one oocyte unfertilized were included in this study. RESULTS: Stimulation with GnRH-a/hMG, as compared with CC/hMG stimulation, resulted in larger numbers of oocytes (P less than 0.00001), a higher fertilization rate (P less than 0.02), and oocyte retrieval at a later average cycle day (P less than 0.000005). Cytogenetic findings of immaturity were observed in 33.9% of unfertilized oocytes after CC/hMG stimulation, compared with only 17.8% after GnRH-a/hMG stimulation (P less than 0.0005). Aneuploidy findings were the same for both groups. CONCLUSION: In GnRH-a/hMG stimulation, oocytes approach the normal day of ovulation more closely. This may allow for better oocyte maturation and higher fertilization and pregnancy rates. 
Comparison of intravenous bolus injection or continuous infusion of recombinant single chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (saruplase) for thrombolysis. A canine model of combined coronary arterial and femoral venous thrombosis. The thrombolytic efficacy of recombinant unglycosylated full length single chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (rscu-PA, saruplase), applied either as single intravenous bolus or as a continuous infusion over 60 minutes, was studied in 5 randomized blinded groups of 5 dogs with combined copper coil induced coronary artery thrombosis and 125I-fibrin labeled femoral vein clots. Infusion of 1 mg/kg recu-PA (group I) induced coronary recanalization in 4 of 5 dogs and 98 +/- 1% (mean +/- SEM) venous clot lysis. Bolus injection of 1 mg/kg recu-PA (group II) caused reflow in 3 of 5 dogs and 88 +/- 5 percent venous clot lysis. Infusion of 0.5 mg/kg rescu-PA (group III) achieved reflow in 3 of 5 dogs and 52 +/- 6% venous clot lysis. Bolus injection of 0.5 mg/kg rscu-PA (group IV) induced reflow in 4 of 5 dogs and 48 +/- 12% venous clot lysis. Placebo infusion (group V) was associated with late recanalization in 1 of 5 dogs and 18 +/- 8% venous clot lysis. Coronary artery reocclusion after reflow was not observed in groups I and II, but occurred in 2 of 3 animals in group III and in 3 of 4 animals in group IV (P = .02). The time to reflow in responsive animals was 22 +/- 5 minutes with infusion of 0.5 or 1 mg/kg rscu-PA and 14 +/- 1 minute with bolus injection of 0.5 or 1 mg/kg (P = .14). Depletion of fibrinogen and alpha 2-antiplasmin to less than 25% of baseline levels was observed in the 5 dogs given 1 mg/kg rscu-PA by bolus and in 3 of the 5 dogs given 1 mg/kg rscu-PA via infusion, but in none of the dogs that received 0.5 mg/kg rscu-PA (P less than .001). Plasma clearance rates were 170 +/- 44 and 230 +/- 30 mL/minute after bolus injection and 190 +/- 47 and 310 +/- 56 mL/minute during infusion of rscu-PA for the 1 mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg doses respectively. Thus, intravenous bolus injection of rscu-PA (saruplase) appears to be equipotent to an infusion over 60 minutes for both coronary and venous thrombolysis. This animal model of combined arterial and venous thrombolysis may be useful for the evaluation of new thrombolytic strategies. 
Adrenal carcinoma presenting with postmenopausal vaginal bleeding. A 63-year-old woman presented with a 3-day history of vaginal bleeding. Pelvic examination and ultrasound revealed bilateral atrophy of the ovaries and a uterus of 8.8 x 3.3 x 4.0 cm. Serum estradiol (E2) was 300 pg/mL. Cushing syndrome was diagnosed biochemically, and computed tomography of the abdomen revealed a 5-cm left adrenal mass and tumors in the liver and lung. A pathologic diagnosis of metastatic adrenal carcinoma was made after surgery. This case demonstrates that adrenal carcinoma can produce high E2 levels in a postmenopausal woman, leading to uterine enlargement and vaginal bleeding. Adrenal carcinoma should therefore be included in the differential diagnosis of postmenopausal vaginal bleeding. 
Plasma endothelin in human essential hypertension. Plasma endothelin immunoreactivity was measured in normal controls, in mild essential hypertensive patients with no antihypertensive treatment, in moderate to severe hypertensives whose blood pressure was controlled by treatment, and in moderate to severe hypertensives whose blood pressure was not controlled by treatment. Endothelin immunoreactivity levels in plasma in the four groups were similar, but had a positive correlation with blood pressure in hypertensives although not in normotensives. The concentration in plasma of both C-terminal and N-terminal atrial natriuretic peptide also had a positive correlation with blood pressure in these hypertensive patients. We conclude that if plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels represent the result of endothelial production of endothelin, in absence of changes in catabolism of the peptide, essential hypertensive patients do not appear to have increased production of endothelin. 
Effects of ultrasound and trolamine salicylate phonophoresis on delayed-onset muscle soreness. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of ultrasound and phonophoresis using an anti-inflammatory-analgesic cream (trolamine salicylate) on delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS). Repeated eccentric contractions were used to induce DOMS in the elbow flexors of 40 college-aged women. Subjects were then assigned randomly to one of four groups: (1) group 1 (n = 10) received sham ultrasound using placebo cream, (2) group 2 (n = 10) received sham ultrasound using trolamine salicylate cream, (3) group 3 (n = 10) received ultrasound using placebo cream, and (4) group 4 (n = 10) received ultrasound using trolamine salicylate cream. Subjects were treated on 3 consecutive days. Muscle soreness and active elbow range of motion were assessed daily prior to each treatment. The subjects in group 3 experienced an increase in DOMS, whereas no increase in soreness was observed in the subjects in group 4. The authors concluded that ultrasound enhanced the development of DOMS but that this enhancement was offset by the anti-inflammatory-analgesic action of salicylate phonophoresis. These findings suggest that salicylate phonophoresis may be useful in clinical situations in which it is desirable to administer ultrasound without increasing inflammation. 
Insulin and glucagon levels in fulminant hepatic failure in man. The behavior of insulin and glucagon and related metabolic substrates was assayed in plasma of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. All 12 subjects were provided the same nutritional support. High levels of insulin and glucagon were present at all times and no difference was observed between surviving patients (four) and those who died (8). Elevated values for branched-chain and aromatic amino acids as well as alanine were present. Statistically significant lower levels of aromatic amino acids and consequently a greater branched chain-aromatic amino acid ratio was found in surviving vs nonsurviving patients. A significantly greater level of alpha-fetoprotein was found in patients who survived as compared to those who died. 
Flecainide in the treatment of fetal tachycardias. Fourteen mothers were treated with flecainide for fetal atrial tachycardias associated with intrauterine cardiac failure. Twelve of the 14 fetuses responded by conversion to sinus rhythm. One of the 12 fetuses subsequently died in utero. The remaining fetuses suffered no morbidity and were alive and well 3 months to 2 years after delivery. The two fetuses in whom atrial tachycardia did not convert with flecainide were successfully treated with digoxin. These results compare favourably with previous forms of antiarrhythmic treatment. After recent reports of the side effects of flecainide treatment, however, it has been advised that this drug should be confined to high risk patients and those with life threatening arrhythmias. The use of flecainide for fetal arrhythmias should be limited to patients with severe fetal hydrops and supraventricular tachycardias. It should not be the first drug of choice in atrial flutter. 
The study of serum apoprotein levels as indicators for the severity of angiographically assessed coronary artery disease. Serum apoprotein A-I (Apo A-I) and B (Apo-B) concentrations were determined in 40 subjects undergoing coronary angiography for past myocardial infarction and angina pectoris, and the authors studied the relationship between the apoprotein concentrations and the severity of coronary artery disease (CAD). During this study, serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, and high-density lipoprotein, low-density lipoprotein, and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were determined to control analysis. The results showed that the decrease in serum Apo A-I levels was the best indicator distinguishing CAD from non-coronary artery disease; the Apo B/Apo A-I ratio had the most consistent association with the severity of CAD as assessed by angiography; Apo B/Apo A-I values ranging from 0.98 to 1.00 might be considered critical values for early CAD. 
Cost effectiveness of incremental programmes for lowering serum cholesterol concentration: is individual intervention worth while? OBJECTIVE--To evaluate the relative cost effectiveness of various cholesterol lowering programmes. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis. SETTING--Norwegian cholesterol lowering programme in Norwegian male population aged 40-49 (n = 200,000), whose interventions comprise a population based promotion of healthier eating habits, dietary treatment (subjects with serum cholesterol concentration 6.0-7.9 mmol/l), and dietary and drug treatment combined (serum cholesterol concentration greater than or equal to 8.0 mmol/l). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Marginal cost effectiveness ratios--that is, the ratio of net treatment costs (cost of treatment minus savings in treatment costs for coronary heart disease) to life years gained and to quality of life years (QALYs) saved. RESULTS--The cost per life year gained over 20 years of a population based strategy was projected to be 12 pounds. For an individual strategy based on dietary treatment the cost was about 12,400 pounds per life year gained and 111,600 pounds if drugs were added for 50% of the subjects with serum cholesterol concentrations greater than or equal to 8.0 mmol/l. CONCLUSIONS--The results underline the importance of marginal cost effectiveness analyses for incremental programmes of health care. The calculations of QALYs, though speculative, indicate that individual intervention should be implemented cautiously and within more selected groups than currently recommended. Drugs should be reserved for subjects with genetic hypercholesterolaemia or who are otherwise at very high risk of arteriosclerotic disease. 
Congestive gastropathy and Helicobacter pylori: an endoscopic and morphometric study. Congestive gastropathy is a frequent cause of upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage in patients with portal hypertension. The pathogenesis is thought to involve venous congestion with gastric mucosal capillary dilatation. We studied the relation between gastric mucosal capillary dilatation, measured morphometrically, and endoscopic appearances in 74 patients with portal hypertension and 20 control subjects. We also investigated the frequency of gastric colonisation with Helicobacter pylori. Mucosal capillaries in patients were significantly dilated compared with control subjects (p less than 0.001) but the degree of dilatation was not related to the severity of the endoscopic appearances. H pylori was identified in 19 of 74 (26%) patients but was not related to the severity of the endoscopic appearances. These results suggest that other factors in addition to mucosal venous and capillary congestion are important in the pathogenesis of endoscopic congestive gastropathy and that gastric colonisation with H pylori is unlikely to be one of these factors. 
Carotid and coronary atherosclerosis. What are the connections? In recent years research has revealed an association between carotid atherosclerosis and coronary atherosclerosis that parallels the long-recognized association between clinically manifest cerebrovascular disease and clinically manifest coronary artery disease (CAD). Validation of B-mode ultrasonography as a method for quantitative imaging of the extracranial carotid arteries has made it possible to identify risk factors for extracranial carotid atherosclerosis and its progression and to test pharmacologic agents for their ability to retard that progression. Extent of atherosclerosis in the extracranial carotid arteries has been shown to be a risk factor or "marker" for symptomatic CAD. In addition, CAD has been identified as an important predictor of progression of extracranial carotid atherosclerosis. 
Neurologic complications of infective endocarditis. Neurologic syndromes often complicate the management of infective endocarditis (IE). We retrospectively reviewed 166 episodes of native valve endocarditis to assess the occurrence and implications of nonfocal encephalopathy, meningitis, salient headache, back pain, and brain abscess. Neurologic complications occurred in 35% (58/166) of patients: 41% (54/133) of mitral or aortic valve IE and 12% (4/33) of tricuspid valve IE. Of 133 cases of mitral or aortic valve IE, encephalopathy occurred in 14%, meningitis in 5%, and salient headache in 3%. All neurologic complications occurred more often with Staphylococcus aureus infection (67%) than with viridans streptococci (22%), including encephalopathy (22% versus 7%), meningitis (17% versus 0%), stroke (39% versus 16%), and death (39% versus 9%). Encephalopathy was associated with virulent organisms, increased patient age, and uncontrolled infection. Clinical, radiologic, and neuropathologic data all suggest that infective microemboli are often etiologic in IE-related encephalopathy. There were no macroscopic brain abscesses clinically identified. Meningitis occurred only with virulent organisms. While many clinical aspects of IE have changed in recent years, the frequency and gravity of neurologic complications have not. 
Cytogenetic abnormalities in uterine leiomyomata. Uterine leiomyomata are thought to be monoclonal tumors; however, the factors involved in the neoplastic proliferation of uterine leiomyomata are unknown. The purpose of the present study was to characterize uterine leiomyomata using cytogenetic techniques. Thirteen leiomyoma specimens were obtained by hysterectomy or myomectomy. Short-term cultures were successfully established for all specimens, and metaphase spreads were prepared by conventional techniques. Clonal chromosome rearrangements were detected in seven leiomyoma specimens (54%). These rearrangements involved chromosome bands 12q14-15 in five specimens, including three tumors with a specific translocation, t(12;14)(q14-15;q23-24). Chromosome rearrangements involving chromosome band 7q22 were identified in two specimens. A normal 46,XX karyotype was observed in six specimens. Myometrial specimens from two patients with abnormal leiomyoma karyotypes were normal cytogenetically. These results suggest that spontaneous chromosome rearrangements may be responsible for the initiation and proliferation of leiomyoma growth. 
Composite tissue transfer in limb-salvage surgery. After extensive resection due to extremity sarcoma, the inability to cover the defect for satisfactory healing and limb function has been an indication for amputation rather than limb salvage. We report herein our experience with seven limb-salvage cases in which we closed difficult and complex defects with composite tissue transfers utilizing microvascular techniques. Free-flap transfers were used to cover soft-tissue defects after extensive resection of primary and locally recurrent tumor and to manage radiation-induced complications. The grafts healed well when infected irradiated tissue was covered, and the grafts tolerated postoperative irradiation. Composite tissue transfer also provided soft-tissue coverage around distal joints that would not have been adequately protected with a skin graft. Complications were minimal, and all patients maintained good extremity function. No patient who underwent composite tissue transfer has had a local recurrence. A free-flap composite tissue transfer can extend the indications for limb-salvage surgery and offers an alternative to amputation in selected patients. 
Nitroprusside in preeclampsia. Circulatory distress and paradoxical bradycardia. In severe preeclampsia, short-term peripartum management of hypertension with hydralazine is complicated by relatively prolonged hypotensive episodes, resulting in fetal distress. We hypothesized that nitroprusside's rapid onset and brief antihypertensive action would permit more controlled blood pressure reduction. Nitroprusside was infused into 10 invasively monitored subjects until mean arterial pressure either 1) was gradually reduced 10-20% or 2) fell abruptly. Subjects fell into two groups, defined by whether the hypotensive effect of nitroprusside was accompanied by a fall in heart rate (group A, n = 8) or a rise (group B, n = 2). Group B showed the expected sinoaortic baroreceptor reflex elevations in heart rate (+17 +/- 6 beats/min) in response to moderate falls in mean arterial pressure (-32 +/- 9 mm Hg) elicited by moderate doses (1.03 +/- 0.23 micrograms/kg/min). However in group A, steep reductions in mean arterial pressure (-75 +/- 22 mm Hg, p less than 0.0001), significantly greater than in group B (p less than 0.05), occurred at much lower doses (0.35 +/- 0.23 micrograms/kg/min; p less than 0.05) and were accompanied by falls in heart rate (-21 +/- 7 beats/min). The apparently paradoxical falls in heart rate and extreme hypotensive responses in group A indicate severe circulatory compromise, corresponding to the cardiac and vasomotor depression that characterizes severe hemorrhage and other forms of acute/severe hypovolemic hypotension. This hemodynamic pattern represents a cardiopulmonary baroreceptor reflex presumably related to the Bezold-Jarisch reflex. The appearance of this pattern in the present study probably reflects the imposition of nitroprusside's prominent venous dilator action on the relatively reduced blood volume that generally characterizes severe preeclampsia. 
Captopril protects against myocardial injury induced by magnesium deficiency. We have previously reported that antioxidant drug intervention protects against magnesium deficiency-induced myocardial lesions. In the present study, Golden Syrian male hamsters were fed either a magnesium-deficient diet or a magnesium-supplemented diet. Animals from each group received sulfhydryl-containing angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: captopril, epi-captopril (a stereoisomer of captopril), and zofenopril* (arginine blend of zofenopril containing a free SH group); another group of animals received the non-sulfhydryl-containing angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalaprilat. The animals were killed after 14 days, and their hearts were isolated for morphological and morphometric analyses. Hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections were examined by a computer image analysis system for a morphometric determination of the severity of myocardial injury. Captopril reduced both the density of lesions, from 0.32 to 0.08 lesions/(mm2) (p less than 0.01), and the area fraction of lesions, from 7.42 x 10(-4) to 2.03 x 10(-4) lesion area/(mm2) (p less than 0.01), as well as the degree of inflammatory infiltration around the blood vessels. Epi-captopril and zofenopril* were virtually equipotent to captopril, but enalaprilat afforded only slight (nonsignificant) protection. These results indicate that a significant component of the protective effect of captopril in this model was attributable to its sulfhydryl moiety, rather than solely due to the inhibition of the angiotensin converting enzyme. These data further support our previous findings of possible free radical participation in cardiomyopathy due to magnesium deficiency. 
A prospective randomized trial of adjuvant chemotherapy with bolus versus continuous infusion of doxorubicin in patients with high-grade extremity soft tissue sarcoma and an analysis of prognostic factors. A prospective randomized trial was conducted to compare the cardiotoxic and therapeutic effects of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks) administered by bolus or 72-hour continuous infusion as adjuvant chemotherapy in 82 eligible patients after resection of high-grade soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or superficial trunk. Cardiac toxicity, defined as a 10% or greater decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction as assessed by radionuclide cineangiography, was evaluated in 69 patients. Cardiotoxicity was seen in 61% of patients in the bolus treatment arm with the median doxorubicin dose of 420 mg/m2. Among patients who received continuous infusion, 42% had cardiotoxicity with a median dose of 540 mg/m2. The rate of cardiotoxicity as a function of the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was significantly higher in the bolus treatment arm (P = 0.0017). Two patients in each group had clinical congestive heart failure, with one cardiac death occurring in each. There was a trend toward a lower rate of metastasis (P = 0.19) and a significantly lower rate of death of disease (P = 0.036) for patients treated with the bolus dose. Cox model analysis identified three unfavorable characteristics for the rate of developing a distant metastasis: blood transfusion within 24 hours of operation (P less than 0.00001), tumor deep to the fascia and 5 cm or more in size (P = 0.0043), and a histologic subtype other than liposarcoma (P = 0.0002). The unfavorable effect of continuous infusion was not selected in the model (P = 0.16). Adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with soft tissue sarcoma is investigational. Furthermore, the impact of perioperative blood transfusion merits further study. 
Influence of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on pump function and cardiac contractility in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. Eleven patients with coronary artery disease and chronic heart failure were studied before and three months after the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril was added to their frusemide medication. The following were measured: left ventricular pressure and volume with transient occlusion of the inferior vena cava, radionuclide angiography, and hormone concentrations in plasma. As in other reported studies, the clinical condition of the patients improved and their exercise tolerance increased moderately. Addition of enalapril reduced end diastolic and systolic pressure, reduced ventricular volume, and concomitantly increased the ejection fraction. The end systolic pressure-volume relation shifted to the left as it did in a similar animal study. In the animal study unloading by a vasodilator did not induce a leftward shift, so it can be inferred that in the present study unloading combined with a decrease in the angiotensin concentration was instrumental in remodelling the heart. Though unloading was expected to have a beneficial effect on the oxygen supply/demand ratio of the heart, the patients still showed the same drop in the ejection fraction during exercise as they did before treatment with enalapril, and early diastolic filling did not improve. Normally, regression of cardiac dilatation is only found if pump function improves; the present study showed that unloading in combination with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition reshapes the ventricle without improving intrinsic pump function. 
Feeding regimens after pyloromyotomy. In a prospective randomized study three different feeding regimens after operation were compared in 74 babies with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: gradual regarding of feeds over 48 h (regimen 1), rapid regarding of feeds over 16 h (regimen 2), and initial starvation followed by full normal feeds at 24 h (regimen 3). No significant difference between the treatment groups was found either in episodes of vomiting after operation (regimen 1, 2.9 episodes in 21 patients; regimen 2, 3.6 episodes in 28 patients; regimen 3, 3.6 episodes in 25 patients) or in the mean duration of postoperative hospital stay (regimen 1, 59.3 h; regimen 2, 47.8 h; regimen 3, 56.7 h). We conclude that vomiting following pyloromyotomy is self-limiting and independent of the timetable or composition of the postoperative dietary regimen. 
Emergency treatment of headache. Headache is a frequent presenting complaint in the emergency department. Once a diagnosis is established, and significant organic disease can be ruled out, relief of pain must be addressed. Referral for follow-up care and narcotic habituation is a recurrent problem for the emergency physician. This article discusses the differential diagnosis of headache, evaluation of the emergency room patient, and treatment of the patient with headache. 
Neutrophils express the high affinity receptor for IgG (Fc gamma RI, CD64) after in vivo application of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. Fc receptors are important effector molecules of neutrophilic granulocytes (polymorphonuclear neutrophils [PMN]), connecting phagocytic cells and the specific immune response. Neutrophils from healthy donors express the low-affinity receptors for IgG Fc gamma RII (CD32) and Fc gamma RIII (CD16), but not the high-affinity receptor Fc gamma RI (CD64). The latter has been found on neutrophils from patients with certain bacterial infections and can be induced in vitro after incubation with interferon-gamma. We show here that neutrophils strongly express Fc gamma RI after in vivo application of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF). PMN from patients receiving rhG-CSF displayed higher cytotoxicity against Daudi lymphoma cells in vitro compared with control patients and with healthy donors. Fab fragments against Fc gamma RII (monoclonal antibody [MoAb] IV.3) inhibited neutrophil-mediated cytotoxicity of healthy donors but not of patients during rhG-CSF therapy. Therefore, expression of Fc receptors by PMN was investigated by flow cytometry and the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) was compared. After staining with MoAb 32.2 against Fc gamma RL, the median MFI of neutrophils from G-CSF patients (median, 4.78; range, 2.40 to 8.50; n = 5) was significantly higher (P = .002 and P = .001, respectively) than the median MFI of patients not receiving G-CSF (median, 1.23; range, 1.01 to 1.58; n = 6) and the median MFI of healthy donors (median, 1.04; range, 0.67 to 1.12; n = 6). Fc gamma RI disappeared after the discontinuing of the G-CSF injections, but was reinduced during the next treatment cycle with rhG-CSF. The high expression of Fc gamma RI during rhG-CSF therapy correlated with enhanced cytotoxicity. In vitro incubation with rhG-CSF also enhances cytotoxicity, but only minor increments in Fc gamma RI expression were observed. Thus, during in vivo application of rhG-CSF neutrophils acquire an additional potent receptor for mediating tumor cell killing in vitro by induction of the high-affinity receptor for IgG (Fc gamma RI, CD64). 
Management of intraoperative rupture of aneurysm without hypotension. A retrospective analysis was performed on all aneurysms operated on by one of us (SLG) from July 1980 to October 1988 to determine the factors that govern outcome from the intraoperative rupture of aneurysms. A total of 276 consecutive surgical procedures for 317 intracranial aneurysms produced 41 perioperative or intraoperative ruptures for analysis. Five cases were pre-exposure ruptures, 3 of which occurred during anesthetic induction. Four of these patients died, and 1 made a good recovery. Of the remaining 36 cases, outcome was analyzed in terms of the adjuncts used to deal with the intraoperative rupture. There was no statistically significant difference in outcome between those cases in which tamponade was used to control hemorrhage versus temporary clipping; however, those cases in which hypotension was used did less well than those in which it was not used. From October 1986 to October 1988, 108 operations for 132 aneurysms were performed without the use of induced hypotension. There were 16 intraoperative ruptures (14.8%). All 16 of these patients made a good recovery. In the group before 1986, of which there were 20 intraoperative ruptures (of 168 operations, 11.9%), 11 of those 20 patients suffered a permanent deficit or died. We conclude that hypotension may not be a necessary adjunct to the management of intraoperative rupture of aneurysms. 
Vaccination for prevention of CAPD associated staphylococcal infection: results of a prospective multicentre clinical trial. 124 stable CAPD patients from 8 Australian and 3 New Zealand centers were randomly assigned in a blinded fashion to one of two groups to study the effect of vaccination using commercial preparations consisting of a combined staphylococcus toxoid and whole killed staphylococci (SB) or normal saline solution (SS) on the incidence of peritonitis and exit site infection and S. aureus nasal carriage over a 12-month prospective period. In addition, levels of IgG, IgA, IgM, C3 and C4 were monitored during the trial period in serum and dialysate; serum levels of anti-alpha hemolysin and dialysate levels of fibronectin and specific antistaphylococcal antibodies were also measured. Over the period, treatment with SB or SS did not affect the incidence of peritonitis, catheter-related infection or S. aureus nasal carriage. However, vaccination with SB elicited a significant increase in the level of serum anti-alpha hemolysin throughout the 12 month duration of the study, although the level of increase was unrelated to the subsequent rate of peritonitis. Vaccination with SB but not SS elicited a significant increase in the dialysate level of specific antibodies against S. aureus. Serum levels of IgG, IgA, IgM, complement C3 and C4 were within the normal range in the CAPD patients studied and remained unaffected by vaccination with SB. In addition, dialysate levels of IgG, IgA, IgM, complement C3 and C4 were 50-100 times lower than corresponding serum levels and remained unaffected by vaccination. In summary, immunisation with an anti-staphylococcal agent was not successful in reducing peritonitis or exit site infection in CAPD patients. 
Transfusion-related chronic liver disease in sickle cell anemia. The medical records and liver biopsies of nine sickle cell patients with chronically elevated liver function tests were retrospectively reviewed to determine the etiology of chronic liver disease. There were eight women and one man with a mean age of 30 yr. All patients had hemoglobin SS. Eight patients were referred for elevated aminotransferases and one for an elevated alkaline phosphatase. Hemosiderosis was present in all of the biopsies. Two patients had cirrhosis. Chronic hepatitis was noted in two patients, and five patients had cholestasis. Two patients had serologic markers demonstrating HBV exposure but no patients were HBsAg positive. Erythrophagocytosis, sinusoidal dilatation, and Kupffer cell hyperplasia were present in all of the liver biopsies. Transfusion-related causes were the most common significant pathologic findings in our patients, and appeared to be the etiologies of chronic liver disease in sickle cell patients. 
The effects of L-dopa on excessive daytime sleepiness in narcolepsy. We examined the effects of L-dopa on the excessive daytime sleepiness of six narcoleptic patients while using a double-blind design and objective measurements of vigilance. The two treatment periods, L-dopa or placebo, lasted for 2 weeks each, separated by a 1-week washout period. In addition to the standard Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), two different tests assessed the daytime vigilance: the Analogue Vigilance Scale (AVS) and the Four Choice Reaction Time Test (FCRTT). L-dopa improved vigilance and performance as evaluated by the AVS and the FCRTT, while the capacity to fall asleep rapidly remained unchanged as evaluated by the MSLT. Results of the present study suggest that L-dopa is effective in improving the vigilance level of narcoleptic patients and raises the hypothesis that dopamine may play a role in the physiopathology of excessive daytime sleepiness of this condition. 
Extremely high maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels at second-trimester screening. Maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP) screening is widely used for the detection of open neural tube defects (NTDs) and a variety of other anomalies and complications. We examined the outcomes of 44 pregnancies with MSAFP elevations of 8 or more multiples of the median (MoM) from among 40,676 screened pregnancies. At the initial evaluation by ultrasound, 82% of the patients had at least one finding that may have accounted for the elevation. Approximately 45% of the fetuses had a major fetal anomaly, 25% died, 16% had an identifiable placental abnormality, and 5% had an underestimation of gestational age; 18% of the elevations remained unexplained after ultrasound. In follow-up of the pregnancies, all of those with an unexplained elevation after initial ultrasound had at least one obstetric complication or placental abnormality. The overall positive predictive value of an MSAFP value of 8 or more MoM for NTDs was 22.7%. The proportion of infants born alive in the overall group was low, with only 16 live births among 46 fetuses. The majority of the nonviable outcomes were associated with a fetus with a major anomaly that was terminated or died before 20 weeks. Of the live-born infants, 31% had a major anomaly, 19% had intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) and an anomaly, 12.5% had IUGR without an anomaly, and 25% were preterm. Eighty-eight percent of those pregnancies with a live-born infant had at least one obstetric complication. Among pregnancies with MSAFP of 8 or more MoM, the majority are associated with large structural fetal anomalies or fetal death before 20 weeks. 
Bone marrow dosimetry in rats using direct tissue counting after injection of radio-iodinated intact monoclonal antibodies or F(ab')2 fragments. Normal rats were injected intravenously with 131I- and 125I-labeled intact murine and chimeric mouse-human monoclonal antibodies directed against carcinoembryonic antigen or with the corresponding F(ab')2 fragments. At different times after injection, individual animals were killed and radioactivity of blood and major organs, including bones and bone marrow, was determined. Ratios comparing radioactivity concentration in different tissues with that of bone marrow were calculated and found to remain stable during several effective half-lives of the antibodies. Mean bone marrow radioactivity was 35% (range, 29%-40%) of that of blood and 126% (range, 108%-147%) of that of liver after injection of intact Mabs or F(ab')2 fragments. In nude rats bearing human colon carcinoma xenografts producing carcinoembryonic antigen, relative bone marrow radioactivity was slightly lower than that in normal rats. 
A comparative trial of the reactogenicity and immunogenicity of Takeda acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids. Outcome in 3- to 8-month-old infants, 9- to 23-month-old infants and children, and 24- to 30-month-old children. The reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the Takeda acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids were compared in 139 infants aged 3 to 8 months, 60 infants and children aged 9 to 23 months, and 99 children aged 24 to 30 months. Good antibody responses to pertussis toxin (PT), filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA), and agglutinogens occurred in all age groups after both the third and fourth doses. After the fourth (booster) dose, the mean antibody values in initially seronegative infants vaccinated at 3 to 8 months of age were as follows: anti-PT, 67.8 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units (EU) per milliliter; anti-FHA, 149.5 EU/mL; the agglutinin titer was 125.6. The values in initially seronegative children vaccinated at 24 to 30 months of age were as follows: anti-PT, 92.9 EU/mL; anti-FHA, 251.7 EU/mL; the agglutinin titer was 275.8. Reactions following immunization were minimal. Except for drowsiness after the first dose in infants, there were no clinically significant differences in reactions between infants and older children. The findings in this study coupled with the recent demonstration of efficacy of this vaccine in 2-year-old children supports the recent Japanese recommendation to lower the age of immunization with acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids to 3 months. 
Interleukin-2 induces early multisystem organ edema mediated by neutrophils. Interleukin-2 (IL-2), an agent known to activate neutrophils (PMN) with thromboxane (Tx)B2 release, produces pulmonary edema within 6 hours of intravenous infusion. This study tests the role of PMN in mediating the edema. Anesthetized rats received 10(6)U recombinant human IL-2 (n = 15) or vehicle (n = 14) as a constant intravenous infusion during a period of 1 hour. At this time there was leukopenia 3.63 +/- 0.43 (x10(3)/mm3) relative to vehicle-infused control rats 6.12 +/- 0.86 and a decline in PMN, 2.19 +/- 0.14 relative to control value of 3.33 +/- 0.05 (both p less than 0.05). After 6 hours edema, as measured by increase in the wet to dry weight (W/d) ratio, was present in the lungs (4.93 +/- 0.20 relative to control 4.06 +/- 0.10), heart (4.09 +/- 0.11 versus 3.76 +/- 0.08), liver (3.50 +/- 0.10 versus 3.18 +/- 0.10), and kidney (4.25 +/- 0.07 versus 4.00 +/- 0.07) (all p less than 0.05). There was increased lung permeability demonstrated by bronchoalveolar lavage fluid protein concentration of 1970 +/- 210 micrograms/mL relative to control 460 +/- 90 micrograms/mL (p less than 0.05). Interleukin-2 resulted in lung PMN sequestration of 53 +/- 7 PMN/10 high-power fields (HPF) relative to 23 +/- 2 PMN/10 HPF in controls (p less than 0.05) and increased plasma TxB2 levels to 1290 +/- 245 pg/mL relative to control 481 +/- 93 pg/mL (p less than 0.05). Pretreatment of other rats (n = 8) with selective anti-rat neutrophil antiserum 18 hours before the experiment led to a peripheral PMN count 10% of baseline and prevented edema in the lungs (W/d ratio 4.20 +/- 0.16) and heart (3.67 +/- 0.07) (both p less than 0.05) but not liver or kidney. Protein in lung lavage was reduced to 760 +/- 220 micrograms/mL (p less than 0.05). The protection afforded by leukopenia was associated with lack of PMN sequestration and prevention of the increase in plasma Tx levels (484 +/- 120 pg/mL, p less than 0.05). These data indicate that the rapid induction of lung and heart edema with a 1-hour infusion of IL-2 in the rat is mediated, in large part, by activated PMNs. 
Prevalences of diabetes and cardiovascular disease risk factors in Hindu Indian subcommunities in Tanzania. OBJECTIVES--To seek differences in the prevalence of diabetes mellitus and other coronary heart disease risk factors, and to identify factors associated with these differences within a Hindu Indian community. DESIGN--Population based cross sectional survey. SETTING--Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. SUBJECTS--Of 20 Hindu subcommunities categorised by caste in Dar-es-Salaam, seven were randomly selected. 1147 (76.7%) of 1495 subjects aged 15 or over participated. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Blood glucose concentrations (fasting and two hours after oral glucose loading), serum total cholesterol and serum triglyceride concentrations, blood pressure, and height and weight. RESULTS--The subcommunities differed substantially in socioeconomic characteristics and lifestyle. Overall, 9.8% of subjects (109/1113) had diabetes, 17.0% (189/1113) impaired glucose tolerance, 14.5% (166/1143) hypertension, and 13.3% (151/1138) were obese. The mean fasting blood glucose concentration was 4.9 mmol/l, the blood glucose concentration two hours after oral loading (75 g) 6.0 mmol/l, the total cholesterol concentration 4.9 mmol/l, the serum triglyceride concentration 1.4 mmol/l, and body mass index (weight/height: kg/m2) 24.3. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 121 and 77 mm Hg respectively. There were important intercommunity differences even after standardisation for age, sex, and body mass index--for example, in mean fasting blood glucose concentration (range 4.5 (Jains) to 5.9 mmol/l (Patels)), serum total cholesterol concentration (range 4.5 (Jains) to 6.2 mmol/l (Suthars)), systolic blood pressure (range 110 (Limbachias) to 127 mm Hg (Bhatias)), and prevalences of diabetes (range 3.4% (3/87 Limbachias) to 18% (20/111 Navnats)) and hypertension (range 5.7% (5/87 Limbachias) to 19.4% (43/222 Bhatias). Variables which showed significant linear correlation with subcommunity variations were entered into a multiple regression model. Intercommunity variations persisted. The Limbachia and Jain communities had the lowest prevalence of and mean values for coronary heart disease risk factors and the Bhatia and Patel communities had the highest. CONCLUSIONS--In this series intercommunity variations in disease and risk factors might have been related to genetic, dietary, socioeconomic, and lifestyle differences but could not be explained by the characteristics studied. Studies of Indian subcommunities are warranted to confirm and extend these descriptive findings and explore the genetic basis of diabetes. Communities of Indian origin should not be perceived as homogeneous. 
Differing patterns of striatal 18F-dopa uptake in Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and progressive supranuclear palsy. Using positron emission tomography (PET), we studied regional striatal 18F-dopa uptake in 16 patients with L-dopa-responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), 18 patients with multiple system atrophy, and 10 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. Results were compared with those of 30 age-matched normal volunteers. The patients with PD showed significantly reduced mean uptake of 18F-dopa in the caudate and putamen compared to controls, but while function in the posterior part of the putamen was severely impaired (45% of normal), function in the anterior part of the putamen and in the caudate was relatively spared (62% and 84% of normal). Mean 18F-dopa uptake in the posterior putamen was depressed to similar levels in all patients. Unlike patients with PD, the patients with progressive supranuclear palsy showed equally severe impairment of mean 18F-dopa uptake in the anterior and posterior putamen. Caudate 18F-dopa uptake was also significantly lower in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy than in patients with PD, being depressed to the same level as that in the putamen. Mean 18F-dopa uptake values in the anterior putamen and caudate in patients with multiple system atrophy lay between PD and progressive supranuclear palsy levels. Locomotor disability of individual patients with PD or multiple system atrophy correlated with decline in striatal 18F-dopa uptake, but this was not the case for the patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. We conclude that patients with PD have selective nigral pathological features with relative preservation of the dopaminergic function in the anterior putamen and caudate, whereas there is progressively more extensive nigral involvement in multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. 
Common complaints with cardiac implications in children. Chest pain, palpitations, and dizziness are not infrequent complaints in the office of a primary care physician. Historical events and physical findings can lead to a more accurate determination of cardiac causes of these symptoms. Electrocardiogram and chest radiographs are two additional tests most often helpful in determining cardiac causes of symptoms. 
Telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma of the extremities. Results in 17 patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Seventeen patients with telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma (TOS) of the extremities were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, according to two different protocols. Preoperatively, the patients received high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) and cisplatinum (CPD) (HD-MTX/CPD) and doxorubicin. CPD was delivered intraarterially, the other drugs intravenously. Limb-salvage surgery was performed in 12 instances, and five patients were treated with amputation. Postoperative chemotherapy was tailored according to the grade of chemotherapy-induced necrosis. In 13 cases (86%), the resultant grade of necrosis was greater than 90% (good responders). The mean follow-up interval was 3.5 years with a range of 18 to 78 months. Fourteen patients (82%) remained continuously disease-free, while three patients developed lung metastases. Two of these died because of uncontrolled disease, whereas the third patient is alive and disease-free after metastasectomy. No local recurrences were observed. These results are better than those observed in 215 contemporary cases of conventional osteosarcoma treated with the same protocols. This study confirms that TOS is not a uniformly lethal tumor as suggested by prior reports. By employing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, a high percentage of patients with TOS can be cured, and in most of them, a limb-sparing surgery is possible and safe. 
Significance of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia on prostate needle biopsy. Prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) is a putative premalignant change in the human prostate. Previously, the spatial association of PIN with invasive carcinoma has been described in the study of total prostatectomies. PIN is frequently recognized in prostate needle biopsy specimens in which no carcinoma is apparent. To further define the potential significance of PIN, we performed repeat ultrasound-guided prostate needle biopsy in 21 men who had PIN identified on prostate biopsy performed because of an abnormal finding on digital rectal examination. Twelve patients (57%) had carcinoma identified on their second procedure including all who had intermediate- and high-grade PIN on the initial procedure. Prostate-specific antigen correlated with PIN grade and carcinoma on the secondary procedure, although this did not achieve statistical significance. Men with PIN on prostate needle biopsy should undergo repeat sampling to exclude missed carcinoma. 
Smoking and hypertension: risk factors for carotid stenosis. The prevalence of smoking, hypertension and diabetes mellitus was assessed in 221 patients suffering from internal carotid stenosis and compared with the prevalences in two sex- and age-matched control groups composed of subjects having normal Doppler findings and from non-neurological outpatients. Of the subjects with carotid stenosis 27.6% were hypertensive smokers in comparison with 9.5% and 17.2% in the two control groups. The difference of the stenosis cohort from the two control groups was significant (P less than 0.01 and P = 0.016 respectively). There was no statistically significant differences between the occurrence of diabetes and hypertension in non-smokers and patients who smoked. In 394 investigated patients suffering from carotid stenosis or occlusion an obstruction index, based on the Doppler shift frequency, was calculated. This index was lowest in the normotentive non-smokers. It was only insignificantly higher in the hypertensive non-smokers but significantly so in the normotensive smokers. The index was highest in the hypertensive non-smokers. It was concluded that cigarette smoking, especially if associated with hypertension, is a determinant risk factor for carotid stenosis and occlusion. 
Complications of endoscopic sphincterotomy. A prospective series with emphasis on the increased risk associated with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction and nondilated bile ducts. Mostly retrospective series with limited use of sphincter of Oddi manometry have indicated that early complications are more common when endoscopic sphincterotomy is performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction than for common duct stones. The current study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the frequency and type of complications of endoscopic sphincterotomy performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction compared with endoscopic sphincterotomy performed for other conditions. Four hundred twenty-three patients underwent sphincterotomy for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (166), common duct stone(s) (163), tumor (60), and miscellaneous reasons (34). Patients were observed in the hospital for at least 24 hours after the procedure, and 30-day follow-up data were obtained. The overall complication rate was 6.9%, but complications were more frequent when sphincterotomy was performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction than for all other indications (10.8% vs. 4.3%; P = 0.009). Precut sphincterotomy was more frequently required in the sphincter of Oddi dysfunction group (21.1% vs. 11.7%, P = 0.009) but was no more likely to result in a complication (6.2%) than standard sphincterotomy. The risk of a complication was considerable for a small-diameter common bile duct (less than or equal to 5 mm), particularly when sphincterotomy was performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (37.5%). The overall 30-day mortality rate was 1.7%, but the procedure-related mortality rate was believed to be 0.2%. It is concluded that endoscopic sphincterotomy for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction is more hazardous than for other conditions, particularly when a small common bile duct is present. 
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in hepatolithiasis: A frequently overlooked disease. Five cases of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma were found among 101 cases of hepatolithiasis. There was no definite sign of cholangiocarcinoma in ERCP and image studies of four cases. The possibility of the existence of occult cholangiocarcinoma should be kept in mind, especially when unusual presentations, such as body weight loss, anemia, palpable abdominal mass, and intractable pain, appear. An intraoperative frozen-section examination should be considered under the following circumstances: (1) whitish nodular mass over liver, (2) mucinous substance within bile duct, and (3) enlarged, firm lymph nodes clustered along the hepatic arteries and/or celiac arteries. 
Injury to the pre-pubertal vas deferens. I. Histological analysis of pre-pubertal human vas. There is very little information in the literature on the development of the human vas deferens. Therefore, the age at which the pre- or para-pubertal vas deferens becomes large enough for a vasovasostomy to be technically feasible is unknown. To determine the age or degree of sexual maturity at which a microscopic vasovasostomy is technically feasible, we collected surgical or autopsy vasa from 34 young males over a three year period, and correlated vasal size to age and Tanner stage (degree of sexual maturity ranging from 1-childhood to 5-adult). The specimens were embedded and sectioned transversely in glycol methacrylate. Using image analysis, the total transverse area and diameter, and luminal area and diameter was determined for each specimen. Surprisingly, there was no change in vasal size from birth up through 11 years. From age 15 years and on, the vas was adult in size. The vas develops to adult size between Tanner stages 2 and 3. The average external and luminal diameters of pre-midpuberty specimens (Tanner stages 1 and 2) were 1.0 and 0.19 (mm.) and the diameters of post-midpuberty specimens were 2.1 and 0.43 (mm.), respectively. These results suggest that, in the event of a recognized iatrogenic injury to the vas deferens after midpuberty, a repair by a traditional microsurgical vasovasostomy is possible. If the vas is injured before midpuberty it may be technically difficult to repair by traditional microsurgical methods. 
Functional, biochemical, and histopathologic consequences of high-dose interleukin-2 administration in rats. A variety of side effects have been reported with the use of interleukin-2 alone or in combination with lymphokine-activated killer cells in patients with disseminated neoplasms. The present study was undertaken to determine the effects of high-dose interleukin-2 administration in normal rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with intravenous recombinant interleukin-2 (900,000 IU/kg/day) for 9 consecutive days. Animals were placed in individual metabolic cages, and arterial blood pressure, food intake, body weight, and urine output were monitored. On day 10, animals were killed by exsanguination, various tissues were harvested, and a variety of hematologic and chemical assays were performed. The results were compared with those of placebo-injected normal control and pair-fed groups. The interleukin-2-treated group exhibited anorexia, weight loss, hypotension, anemia, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, eosinophilia, hypercalcemia, azotemia, and a marked urinary concentration defect. Histologic examination of various tissues revealed widespread infiltration with mono-nuclear cells and eosinophils in most organs, especially in the lungs and liver of interleukin-2-treated animals. Other abnormalities included severe panlobular hepatitis, hepatocellular necrosis, and thymic involution. Renal involvement was mild and consisted of focal interstitial infiltration by mononuclear cells. According to these observations, administration of high-dose interleukin-2 in normal rats results in a score of significant functional, biochemical, and histologic abnormalities. 
Frequency of the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis syndrome in oral malignancies. There have been a number of reports over the last 15 years of patients with cancer who develop both leukocytosis and hypercalcemia, particularly in patients with cancers of the oral cavity. In this study, the authors report the frequency of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis in 225 patients with oral malignancies. Ten patients (4.4%) had hypercalcemia, 11 patients (4.9%) had leukocytosis, and five (2.2%) had both hypercalcemia and leukocytosis. The occurrence of these two distinct paraneoplastic syndromes in the same patients was greater than could have been expected from chance alone (chi-square = 45.8, P less than 0.0001). This study demonstrates that although hypercalcemia and leukocytosis are relatively uncommon in oral cancers, when they do occur they are frequently associated. To the knowledge of the authors, this is the first report in which the frequency of the association hypercalcemia and leukocytosis is studied in detail in large numbers of patients with oral cancer. 
Lack of correlation between P pulmonale and right atrial overload in chronic obstructive airways disease. The correlation between P pulmonale and right atrial overload in chronic lung disease was studied. Right atrial pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, and cardiac output were measured with a Swan-Ganz catheter in nine patients with chronic lung disease and P pulmonale on the electrocardiogram (P wave amplitude of greater than or equal to 2.5 mm (0.25 mV) in leads II, III, and a VF. The results were compared with those in six patients with an atrial septal defect (left to right shunt greater than or equal to 50%) and six patients with pulmonary hypertension (mean pressure greater than or equal to 30 mm Hg without left sided heart disease). Right atrial volume and wall thickness were measured in 10 cases of P pulmonale among 1000 necropsy cases and compared with 141 normal hearts from the same series. The patients with P pulmonale did not show a significant increase in right atrial or pulmonary artery pressures. None of the patients with an atrial septal defect or pulmonary hypertension had P pulmonale on the electrocardiogram. In the necropsy cases of P pulmonale mean (1 SD) in right atrial volume (32 (12) ml) and wall thickness (1.5 (0.7) mm) were not significantly increased (40 (14) ml and 1.4 (0.5) mm in the normal hearts). There was a significant inverse relation between the presence of P pulmonale and the cardiothoracic ratio. In all the patients with P pulmonale chest x ray showed a low cardiothoracic ratio, a considerably depressed diaphragm, and a pendulous heart. This study showed no correlation between P pulmonale and right atrial overload in chronic lung disease. 
Alteration of whole-body protein kinetics according to severity of surgical trauma in patients receiving total parenteral nutrition. This study was conducted to clarify the mechanisms of body nitrogen losses according to the severity of surgical trauma. Thirteen male patients who underwent operation for esophageal cancer (group E), and 11 men (who underwent gastric or colorectal surgeries (group GC) were studied. The measurement of whole-body protein turnover, synthesis, and breakdown were made preoperatively on the 3rd and 10th postoperative day with constant infusion of [15N]glycine during isocaloric and isonitrogenous total parenteral nutrition. Significant increases in the rates of whole-body protein turnover (flux) and breakdown were seen in group E on the 3rd postoperative day (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.01, respectively), whereas the increases were not significant in group GC. The rates of whole-body protein flux and breakdown were significantly greater in group E than group GC (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.01, respectively). The rate of protein synthesis significantly increased in group E (p less than 0.05), but did not alter or slightly decreased in group GC. The rates of whole-body protein flux and breakdown in group E were still significantly greater on the 10th postoperative day than preoperatively. It was concluded that unchanged or slightly decreased rates of whole-body protein synthesis with slightly increased breakdown were seen in the group of patients who underwent gastric or colorectal surgery, whereas synthesis increased significantly with a greater increase of breakdown in patients receiving severe surgical procedures, esophagectomy for esophageal cancer. 
Benefits of implantable defibrillators are overestimated by sudden death rates and better represented by the total arrhythmic death rate Benefits of the implantable defibrillator on survival were studied in 56 consecutive patients (concomitant coronary bypass or arrythmia surgery in 15) during an 8 year period between 1982 and 1990. During a follow-up period of 29 +/- 25 months, six patients had a sudden death and eight patients had a nonsudden cardiac death. Nonsudden cardiac deaths included three surgical deaths (death within 30 days after the surgery; two in patients without and one in a patient with concomitant cardiac surgery), one arrhythmia-related nonsudden death (death within 24 h after an arrhythmic event despite initial termination of the arrhythmia by the implantable defibrillators) and four nonarrhythmic cardiac deaths. The actuarial survival rate free of events at 1, 2 and 3 years was 96%, 96% and 92%, respectively, for sudden death, 91%, 91% and 87% for sudden death and surgical mortality and 89%, 89% and 85% for total arrhythmic death (sudden death, surgical mortality and arrhythmia-related nonsudden death). Thus, in patients treated with an implantable defibrillator, 1) the rate of sudden death is low (8% at 3 years); 2) 50% of nonsudden cardiac deaths are causally related to arrhythmia (surgical mortality or arrhythmia-related nonsudden death); 3) the total arrhythmic death rate is substantially higher than the sudden death rate; and 4) benefits of an implantable defibrillator are overestimated by reported sudden death and nonsudden cardiac death rates. The benefits may be better represented by the total arrhythmic death and nonarrhythmic cardiac death rates. 
Stroke from other etiologies masquerading as migraine-stroke. There has been a recent increase in the number of studies dealing with migraine-stroke. I describe five patients in whom migraine-stroke was the clinical diagnosis but in whom the subsequent clinical events or autopsy showed a different mechanism for the cerebral infarction. Three patients had arterial dissection (one proven at autopsy), one had marantic endocarditis that had been missed on two echocardiograms (proven at autopsy), and one had generalized atherosclerosis and diabetes. These patients demonstrate that important and different etiologies may produce what seems to be the migraine-stroke syndrome. The result may be failure to recognize specific therapeutic measures that could have vitally important benefit to the patient. 
Low peptic ulcer and high gastric cancer prevalence in a developing country with a high prevalence of infection by Helicobacter pylori. We compared the prevalence rates of peptic ulcer (duodenal and gastric) and gastric cancer in 1,796 dyspeptic Peruvian patients with those reported in 2,883 similar patients from developed countries. The prevalence of total peptic ulcer was significantly lower, and that of gastric cancer significantly higher, in the Peruvian patients. The prevalence of gastric ulcer was lower but not significantly so. We deduced that the significantly lower prevalence of total peptic ulcer was directly related to the low prevalence rate of duodenal ulcer. We hypothesize that the reason for these differences was probably a higher prevalence of Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic atrophic gastritis with hypochlorhydria in the Peruvian patients. Hypochlorhydria decreases the predisposition to peptic ulcer (especially duodenal ulcer), and chronic atrophic gastritis may predispose an individual to gastric cancer. 
Clinical implications of late proven patency after successful coronary angioplasty. BACKGROUND. The introduction of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) has changed the pattern of intervention in coronary artery disease. However, the long-term results in patients undergoing successful, elective, native-vessel PTCA are not yet fully characterized. Because the healing and subsequent proliferative response after angioplasty are time related, it was the purpose of the present study to determine the long-term outcome in patients whose dilated arteries have been demonstrated to be patent 4-12 months after successful, uncomplicated PTCA. METHODS AND RESULTS. The patients were grouped on the basis of the 4-12 month catheterization into those whose vessels were angiographically "normal" or had luminal irregularities only at the PTCA sites (396 patients), those whose vessels also had luminal irregularities elsewhere with or without PTCA site luminal irregularities (680 patients), and those with significant obstructive disease (more than 50% diameter narrowing) at sites other than the PTCA sites (426 patients). Of 1,502 such patients, long-term follow-up was available in 1,491. At the time of the original angioplasty, the normal patients had a 1.8% incidence of multivessel disease; luminal irregularity patients, 9.4%; and obstructive disease patients, 58.7%. At angiographic restudy, 16.4% of the obstructive disease patients continued to have multivessel disease. The patients were followed for the events of death, myocardial infarction, coronary surgery, and repeat PTCA. The 6-year survival rate was 95%; cardiac survival, 96%; and freedom from all events, 65%. The strongest correlate of events during follow-up was the angiographic status of the undilated segments. At 6 years, freedom from cardiac events was noted in 77% of the normal group, 61% of the luminal irregularity group, and 55% of the obstructive disease group. Diabetes and hypertension were also independent correlates of events. CONCLUSIONS. Results from the present study show that associated disease in undilated segments is a strong predictor of late events in patients after successful, uncomplicated, reatenosis-free PTCA. However, the need for further revascularization was frequent even in patients without obstructive disease. Completeness of revascularization is appropriate when possible, and limiting progression of coronary disease at sites remote from those dilated should improve on these late results. 
Pressure therapy for the control of hypertrophic scar formation after burn injury. A history and review. Devastating functional problems can result from the formation of hypertrophic scar tissue after burn injury. Although a patient with burns may have several medical problems to contend with because of the injury, most ongoing rehabilitation difficulties are a consequence of the continual wound contraction that occurs in immature burn scars. Treatment of hypertrophic burn scar consists of several surgical options and of pressure therapy, which traditionally involves wearing garments made from elasticized fabric. This article reviews the treatment of hypertrophic scar tissue, with emphasis on its history and on nonsurgical methods of managing the burn scar. 
Repolarization inhomogeneities in ventricular myocardium change dynamically with abrupt cycle length shortening. BACKGROUND. In single heart cells, abrupt changes in stimulation rate elicit complex alterations in repolarization. The effects of rate change on dispersion of repolarization, however, have not been well characterized. METHODS AND RESULTS. To determine the effects of abrupt cycle length (CL) shortening on spatial inhomogeneity of repolarization in a syncytium of ventricular cells, 124 action potentials were simultaneously recorded from Langendorff-perfused guinea pig hearts using high-resolution optical mapping with voltage-sensitive dye. The distribution of ventricular action potential durations (APDs) mapped during each cardiac cycle was used to calculate mean APD and repolarization dispersion index (DI), defined as the variance of the distribution. After abruptly shortening CL from 500 to 300 msec, mean APD declined exponentially in normoxic controls (by 23 +/- 3 msec, p less than 0.0001). This response was characterized by beat-to-beat oscillations of APD that were synchronized at all ventricular sites. After 30 minutes of hypoxia, mean APD decreased from 175.0 +/- 13.3 to 76 +/- 25.7 msec. However, during hypoxia, abrupt CL shortening lowered mean APD by only an additional 6 +/- 6 msec, and APD oscillations were no longer synchronized throughout the ventricle. In controls, beat-to-beat DI decreased significantly (-51.0 +/- 6.8%, p less than 0.01) by the sixth post-CL shortening beat and then recovered (by 15-20 beats). In contrast, DI failed to decrease during hypoxia (+7.1 +/- 23%). Two mechanisms for the transient decline of DI in controls were identified: synchronous APD oscillations and transient diminution of the apical-to-basal ventricular APD gradient. CONCLUSIONS. These data demonstrate that inhomogeneity of ventricular repolarization, as measured by DI, changes dynamically with CL shortening. Furthermore, the hypoxic ventricle does not attenuate DI after abrupt CL shortening and thereby lacks a physiological response expected to diminish vulnerability to arrhythmias. 
Physical activity on the job and cancer in Missouri. We conducted a series of case-control studies to investigate the risks of 16 cancer types in relation to occupational physical activity. These studies were based on Missouri Cancer Registry data for 17,147 White male cancer patients registered between 1984 and 1989. Colon cancer risk was increased for both the moderate (odds ratio (OR) = 1.1; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.0, 1.3) and low (OR = 1.2; 95% CI = 1.0, 1.5) activity levels. Similar elevations were observed for prostate cancer at the moderate (OR = 1.1; 95% CI = 1.0, 1.3) and low (OR = 1.5; 95% CI = 1.2, 1.8) levels of activity, and for cancer of the testis at the low activity level (OR = 2.2; 95% CI = 1.3, 3.7). An opposite trend (p less than 0.01) was noted for lung cancer, which showed decreased risk at the moderate (OR = 0.9; 95% CI = 0.8, 1.0) and low (OR = 0.8; 95% CI = 0.6, 0.9) activity levels. These associations suggest that further study of the relationship between physical activity and site-specific cancer risk is warranted. 
Interaction between free radicals and excitatory amino acids in the formation of ischemic brain edema in rats. Both oxygen free radicals and excitatory amino acids have been implicated as important cellular toxins in ischemic brain. Recent in vitro studies suggest that there may be a mutual interaction between these two mediators. We explored the relation between oxygen free radicals and excitatory amino acids in the development of ischemic brain edema in vivo. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with the free radical scavenger dimethylthiourea 1 hour before ischemia or with the excitotoxin antagonist MK-801 30 minutes before ischemia produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Groups of seven or eight animals were treated with vehicle, low-dose (375 mg/kg) dimethylthiourea, high-dose (750 mg/kg) dimethylthiourea, low-dose (0.5 mg/kg) MK-801, high-dose (2.0 mg/kg) MK-801, or both high-dose dimethylthiourea and low-dose MK-801. After 4 hours of ischemia, brain water content was determined. In eight vehicle-treated controls, mean +/- SEM water content of tissue in the center of the ischemic zone was 83.29 +/- 0.18%. A significant reduction of brain edema was observed in all drug-treated groups: for example, 50.2% (p less than 0.001) in the high-dose dimethylthiourea group, 53.7% (p less than 0.001) in the low-dose MK-801 group, and 66.4% (p less than 0.001) in the combined dimethylthiourea and MK-801 group. Combined treatment with dimethylthiourea and MK-801 provided no significant additive effect over that resulting from treatment with MK-801 alone. 
Heart transplantation in children: an international survey. A survey of cardiac transplantation in children provided data from 381 transplantations in 362 patients from 32 centers in the United States and ten international centers. The number of transplantations continues to increase, in part because of transplantations in infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome and patients with congenital defects. The immunosuppression regimens were more uniform than in the 1985 survey, and triple therapy was most common. Actuarial survival rates were 85% at 1 month, 72% at 1 year, 64% at 3 years, and 60% at 5 years. However, these improved rates are still not equal to the survival of the overall cardiac transplant population, in part because of lower survival rates in neonates. Ventricular dysfunction and rejection, rather than infection, were the leading causes of death. Rejection and infection were the most frequent complications. Also common were hypertension (39%) and seizures (25%), whereas coronary artery disease (8%) was unusual. Functional results were excellent in 85%, and only 7% were disabled. Questions concerning growth rates and many other aspects cannot yet be answered. However, it is apparent that cardiac transplantation in the pediatric population is a very worthwhile endeavor. 
A mathematical computer stimulation model for the development of colonic polyps and colon cancer. Currently known information about the development and progression of colon polyps and cancer is summarized and organized into a mathematical computer simulation model that successfully predicts the natural history of colon polyp and cancer development for an average patient with (1) familial polyposis coli (2) genetic susceptibility as measured by a positive family history, and (3) negative family history with a high fat diet. The mathematical model uses four distinct types of cells (normal, transformed, polypoid, and cancerous) and two kinetic processes (mutation and promotion). Arachidonic acid metabolites play a role in the model in the promotion of cancer from polyps, and account for that promotion through: (1) their effect on encouraging more polypoid cells in mitosis to move toward cancer; and (2) their immunosuppressive effect over time. The model also shows that one defect in allowing more cells to mutate to the transformed state is sufficient to account for the chain of events leading to the clinical sequelae of familial polyposis coli. A second genetic effect at another point in the process is unnecessary. The mechanism of action of Sulindac on colon polyps is explained by the model through inhibition of production of arachidonic acid metabolites, most notably prostaglandin E. 
Antibodies against acetaldehyde-modified epitopes: presence in alcoholic, non-alcoholic liver disease and control subjects. Several studies have recently shown the presence of antibodies against acetaldehyde-modifications in the sera of alcoholic patients. To assess the specificity of this immune response, plasma immunoreactivity with proteins modified in vitro by acetaldehyde was measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 97 alcoholic patients with varying degrees of alcoholic liver disease, in 35 patients with non-alcoholic liver diseases and in 33 control subjects who were social drinkers. All three groups showed some response against acetaldehyde-modified epitopes. The highest plasma reactivities were found in alcoholics, especially those with steatosis and alcoholic hepatitis. Plasma from patients with non-alcoholic liver disease and control subjects also reacted with the acetaldehyde conjugates, but to a lesser extent than plasma from alcoholics. The reliability of these antibodies as markers of either alcohol abuse or alcoholic liver disease therefore appears to be low. However, further studies using more precisely modified proteins or elucidation of the classes of immunoglobulin involved in the immune response against the modified proteins may give clearer differences between the three groups. 
Activation of cardiac sympathetic afferents during coronary occlusion. Evidence for reflex activation of sympathetic nervous system during transmural myocardial ischemia in the dog. BACKGROUND. Left ventricular sympathetic afferent nerves are located mainly in superficial epicardial layers. Reflex excitatory responses mediated by sympathetic afferent nerves have been observed during myocardial ischemia in cats and humans but not in dogs. Previous canine studies have induced ischemia by occlusion of a coronary artery. Extensive collateral circulation in the canine heart may limit ischemia of epicardial layers during simple coronary occlusion, resulting in little stimulation of sympathetic afferent nerves and minimal reflex excitatory responses. METHODS AND RESULTS. In anesthetized dogs with sinoaortic and vagal deafferentation, we determined whether reflex sympathoexcitatory responses mediated by sympathetic afferents occurred during transmural myocardial ischemia. Reflex sympathoexcitation was quantitated by direct recording from either efferent renal (n = 20) or cardiac (n = 5) sympathetic nerves. Responses of arterial pressure and efferent sympathetic nerve activity were measured during simple occlusion of the anterior descending artery (LAD alone) and during LAD occlusion with a circumflex stenosis (LAD + CIRC). This circumflex stenosis was adjusted to abolish coronary vasodilator reserve without reducing basal flow. We observed significantly greater reflex increases in renal (32 +/- 5%) and cardiac (58 +/- 15%) nerve activity during LAD + CIRC than during LAD alone (14 +/- 6% and 8 +/- 7%, respectively). Reflex changes in renal nerve activity during LAD + CIRC were abolished by interruption of cardiac sympathetic afferent pathways (n = 5). In eight experiments, myocardial blood flow was measured during the two coronary occlusions. These experiments confirmed that LAD + CIRC elicited more transmural ischemia in the LAD distribution than did LAD alone. However, these experiments also revealed that LAD + CIRC elicited endocardial ischemia in the circumflex distribution. In five additional experiments, regional sympathetic deafferentation of the posterior left ventricle by epicardial application of 88% phenol along the atrioventricular groove had no significant effect on renal nerve responses to LAD + CIRC (36 +/- 5% increase before phenol versus 31 +/- 3% increase after phenol). These results indicate that endocardial ischemia in the circumflex distribution did not contribute to the reflex increases in nerve activity that were noted during LAD + CIRC. CONCLUSIONS. Reflex sympathoexcitation mediated by cardiac sympathetic afferents can be elicited in dogs. However, these responses are significant only during ischemia that is transmural and involves the superficial epicardial layers of the left ventricle. 
DNA sequence analysis and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) typing of the HLA-DQw2 alleles associated with dermatitis herpetiformis. Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a blistering autoimmune skin disease associated with a 95-100% incidence of the HLA class II antigen HLA-DQw2. Although the precise role of this antigen in the pathogenesis of DH is unclear, one theory proposes that patients with DH possess a molecularly unique subtype of the HLA-DQw2 antigen that causes immune abnormalities eventuating in the clinical manifestations of DH. To test this hypothesis, we performed DNA sequence analysis on the highly polymorphic HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DQA1 loci of eight patients with dermatitis herpetiformis. All DQB1 alleles sequenced were identical to the previously described HLA-DQB*0201 allele from HLA-DQw2 normal subjects. In addition, DQA1 alleles sequenced were identical to those alleles previously associated with HLA-DQw2 (DQA*0201, DQA*0501). These data document that although HLA-DQw2 appears to be a necessary element in the pathogenesis of DH, the development of DH is not dependent on the presence of a unique HLA-DQw2 antigen. HLA-DQ allelic typing by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of PCR-amplified HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 fragments was also performed in ten patients with DH to determine the allelic distribution among both HLA-DR3 (eight patients) and non-DR3 (two patients) DH patients. At the HLA-DQ beta chain locus, all patients possessed the DQB1*0201 allele. At the HLA-DQ alpha chain locus, all HLA-DR3 patients and one non-DR3 patient displayed a pattern consistent with the DQA1*0501 allele, whereas one non-DR3 patient displayed a pattern consistent with the DQA1*0201 allele. These data document that patients with DH do not express a unique HLA-DQw2 heterodimer, that the HLA-DQw2 molecules present in patients with DH have no DNA sequence differences from those found in normal HLA-DQw2 subjects and therefore that susceptibility to DH is not due to a unique HLA-DQw2 molecule. 
Gallium-SPECT in the detection of prosthetic valve endocarditis and aortic ring abscess. A 52-yr-old man who had a bioprosthetic aortic valve developed Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. Despite antibiotic therapy he had persistent pyrexia and developed new conduction system disturbances. Echocardiography did not demonstrate vegetations on the valve or an abscess, but gallium scintigraphy using SPECT clearly identified a focus of intense activity in the region of the aortic valve. The presence of valvular vegetations and a septal abscess was confirmed at autopsy. Gallium scintigraphy, using SPECT, provided a useful noninvasive method for the demonstration of endocarditis and the associated valve ring abscess. 
The pathophysiology of chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in the Lewis rat. Electrophysiological studies were performed in Lewis rats with chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by inoculation with guinea-pig spinal cord and adjuvants and treatment with low dose cyclosporin A. During clinical episodes there was conduction failure in the central nervous system (CNS), namely the spinal cord dorsal columns, and in the afferent fibres in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The following observations indicated that the conduction failure was mainly due to demyelination-induced conduction block: (1) rate-dependent conduction block in the CNS and PNS; (2) temporal dispersion due to slowing of PNS conduction; (3) restoration of PNS conduction by cooling; (4) restoration of CNS conduction by ouabain; (5) previously demonstrated histological evidence of primary demyelination in the dorsal columns, dorsal root ganglia and dorsal roots; and (6) the temporal association of restoration of conduction with remyelination. However, it is likely that CNS and PNS axonal degeneration, which occurs in this disease, also contributed to the conduction failure. In clinical remissions there was restoration of conduction in the CNS and PNS which can be explained by ensheathment/remyelination by oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells, respectively. In most rats during clinical episodes the cerebral somatosensory evoked potential was reduced in amplitude and prolonged in latency, which can be accounted for by demyelination and axonal degeneration in the CNS and PNS components of the afferent pathway. In 2 rats with episodes of EAE, however, this potential was markedly increased in amplitude, which might have been due to demyelination-induced conduction block of descending pathways that normally inhibit synaptic transmission in the afferent pathway. In well-established remission there was residual conduction failure in the CNS and PNS which can be mainly accounted for by axonal degeneration. 
Low-dose co-trimoxazole for prevention of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in human immunodeficiency virus disease The efficacy and tolerability of low, intermittent doses of co-trimoxazole (160 mg trimethoprim and 800 mg sulfamethoxazole given Monday, Wednesday, Friday) for prophylaxis against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) was assessed retrospectively in 116 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-related complex at high risk of PCP. 92% were receiving concomitant zidovudine. 71 with previous episode(s) of PCP were followed a mean of 18.5 months (range 3-42). 45 without past PCP but with depletion of CD4 cells to less than 200/microliters were observed for a mean of 24.2 months (range 9-40). PCP did not develop in any patient on co-trimoxazole. 33 (28%) had side-effects, mainly rash, pruritus, and nausea. 15 discontinued co-trimoxazole, but only 11 (9%), who withdrew in the first month, were clearly drug-intolerant. Thus, low-dose, thrice weekly co-trimoxazole completely prevents AIDS-associated PCP, is cost-effective, and well tolerated by more than 85% of patients. Controlled comparisons of this regimen with other prophylactic agents are warranted. 
Automated pupil perimetry. Pupil field mapping in patients and normal subjects. The authors developed an automated method of pupil perimetry by linking an infrared video pupillometer to a Humphrey Field Analyzer. Software was developed to automatically analyze the pupil responses to focal light stimuli and display the results graphically. All 76 locations of Humphrey program 30-2 could be tested twice within 5.5 minutes and the relative sensitivity of the field was determined by comparing the amplitude of pupil constriction or latency time at each stimulus location. The mean pupil responses within annular areas at 3 degrees, 9 degrees, 15 degrees, 21 degrees, and 27 degrees were shown to be linearly related to log stimulus intensity over a 15 dB range under low level mesopic conditions (3.15 asb bowl background). In normal subjects, the superior temporal quadrant usually had the greatest mean pupillomotor response and the inferior nasal quadrant had the least. Pupil responses in the temporal field were larger than corresponding locations in the nasal field. Patients with visual field defects who underwent testing by pupil perimetry showed pupillary deficits in the same location within the field, providing evidence that pupil perimetry may be a useful, objective means of assessing visual field function. 
Diltiazem-induced psychosis and a possible diltiazem-lithium interaction. Calcium channel blockers are being used increasingly for a variety of cardiovascular problems. Diltiazem hydrochloride, a benzothiazepine derivative, has been reported to have a low incidence of adverse side effects. We report a case of acute psychosis associated with the use of diltiazem in a patient receiving lithium carbonate therapy. Both diltiazem hydrochloride and lithium carbonate have calcium antagonist effects in the central nervous system, and we review their mechanisms of action. A possible synergistic drug interaction between diltiazem and lithium is reported. 
Effects of 30-h sleep loss on cardiorespiratory functions at rest and in exercise. The effects of 30-h sleep deprivation on cardiorespiratory function either at rest or in exercise were studied in 15 young healthy male volunteers. All subjects performed 1-min incremental exercise tests on a bicycle ergometer until exhaustion and endurance exercise tests at 3/4 of their maximal work rates. Arterialized venous blood samples were withdrawn at rest and during exercise tests to investigate the influence of sleep loss on blood gases. In addition, resting plasma catecholamine levels were also measured in ten subjects. The results showed that 1) resting heart rate, plasma catecholamine levels, and blood pH were decreased while minute ventilation (VI) and CO2 production (VCO2) were increased after 30 h of sleep loss (P less than 0.05), and 2) the maximal exercise performance was reduced by sleeplessness, as indicated by the decreases in the maximal heart rate, peak VI, peak VCO2, peak O2 consumption, and time to exhaustion (P less than 0.05). However, no significant changes in exercise endurance, arterialized venous pH, and PCO2 were found in exercise after sleep deprivation either. We therefore conclude that 30-h sleep loss alters cardiorespiratory function at rest and the ability to perform maximal exercise but not exercise endurance. 
Autoantigen recognition by thyroid-infiltrating T cells in Graves disease. Graves disease is a common form of human autoimmune thyroiditis. It shares many pathological features and HLA associations with other, less easily studied, organ-specific autoimmune conditions such as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and hence it is also a useful model for understanding these other diseases. We have previously shown that thyroid-infiltrating T cells in Graves disease that have been recently activated in vivo specifically recognize autologous thyroid epithelial cells. However, the autoantigens involved were not defined. In this study, we have made use of antigen-independent T-cell cloning techniques to show that at least three different thyroid antigens, three different epitopes on a single antigen, and two HLA class II elements are involved in this recognition process in a single individual. This demonstrates that T cells that are present and activated at the site of a human autoimmune disease may show considerable heterogeneity in their recognition of autoantigen on the target tissue. This contrasts with the limited heterogeneity recently reported in some animal models and has potentially important implications for both our understanding of the autoimmune process in humans and the design of immunotherapies to reverse it. 
Solitary expression of CD7 among T-cell antigens in acute myeloid leukemia: identification of a group of patients with similar T-cell receptor beta and delta rearrangements and course of disease suggestive of poor prognosis. In a series of 100 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients defined by cytochemistry and immunophenotyping, 20 expressed T-lymphocyte associated antigens on the surface of their blasts. While 15 expressed two or more T-cell antigens, five were found to express only CD7. All patients belonged to the French-American-British type M4, and four were under the age of 40. Despite intensive chemotherapy, four never obtained a complete remission and the fifth died of relapse after an allogenic bone marrow transplantation. While 12 randomly selected T-cell antigen negative AML patients showed only few rearrangements in Ig- or T-cell receptor (TCR) genes, such genetic alterations were demonstrated in four of five patients for the TCR delta gene and in all patients for the TCR beta gene. Interestingly, DNA fragments of similar size were demonstrated in three of five patients for both the beta and delta genes. These data suggest that the solitary presence of CD7 among T-cell antigens in otherwise clearcut AML cases identifies a group of patients with similarities in antigen receptor gene configuration as well as outcome. 
Smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost--United States, 1988. Smoking is a leading cause of diseases associated with premature mortality in the United States; in 1985, these diseases accounted for an estimated 390,000 premature deaths. In this report, mortality data and estimates of smoking prevalence for 1988 are used to calculate smoking-attributable mortality (SAM), years of potential life lost (YPLL), and age-adjusted SAM and YPLL rates for the United States. Calculations were performed using Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Cost (SAMMEC II) software, which includes relative risk estimates for 22 adult (i.e., greater than or equal to 35 years of age) smoking-related diseases and relative risk estimates for four perinatal (i.e., less than 1 year of age) conditions. Age-, sex-, and race-specific mortality data for 1988 were obtained from CDC's National Center for Health Statistics. Data on burn deaths caused by cigarettes were obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The estimated number of deaths among nonsmokers from lung cancer attributable to passive smoking was obtained from a report of the National Academy of Sciences. Age-, sex-, and race-specific current and former smoking prevalence rates in 1988 for adults aged greater than or equal to 35 years and for women aged 18-44 years were estimated by linear extrapolation using National Health Interview Survey data for 1974-1987. 
Tumor necrosis factor receptors in lymphoid tissues and lymphomas. Source and site of action of tumor necrosis factor alpha. Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), which is produced by germinal center dendritic reticulum cells (DRC) in lymphoid tissue, plays a regulatory role in a local immune response. However no information is available on the nature and location of cells responding to this cytokine. Thus TNF receptor distribution was investigated in situ by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal antibodies directed against the p75 and p55 receptor proteins. Receptor expression was unique and restricted to the lymphoreticular tissue. The p75 receptor was found on activated lymphocytes and interdigitating reticulum cells of the T-cell area, whereas the p55 receptor was confined to the germinal center DRCs, which are the main site of TNF alpha production. The two receptor proteins were expressed on distinct cell populations of the lymphoid system and no coexpression was observed. Preliminary results indicate that TNF receptor (TNFR) expression is regulated; Upregulation of TNFR proteins was found in reactive hyperplasia together with increased TNF alpha expression. In lymphoproliferative disorders, expression of the p75 receptor and TNF alpha was found mainly in high-grade malignant non-Hodgkin lymphomas. In summary, TNF alpha produced by germinal center DRCs might regulate an in vivo immune response through autocrine and paracrine pathways. Thus TNF alpha might signal, through the distinct TNFR proteins, the p55 and p75 receptor, which are expressed on different cell types in lymphoid tissue. 
Diagnosis and localization of laceration of the thoracic duct: usefulness of lymphangiography and CT. The usefulness of lymphangiography and CT in the diagnosis and localization of laceration of the thoracic duct was evaluated in 12 patients with chylothorax or chylous ascites after surgery. Bipedal lymphangiography was performed in all 12 patients. The last four patients studied also had CT after lymphangiography. Seven patients had abnormal findings on lymphangiograms; five with leaks from the thoracic duct, one with a lymphocele in a nephrectomy bed, and one with obstructed intestinal lymphatic vessels after thoracotomy. Five patients had no evidence of lymphatic leakage. CT in one patient with evidence of a leak on lymphangiography showed extravasation of contrast medium into the mediastinum and pleural space. CT in three patients with no abnormalities on lymphangiography also showed no abnormalities. Four of the five thoracic duct lacerations and the lymphocele were confirmed surgically. The diagnosis of obstructed intestinal lymphatic vessels was supported clinically. Four of the five patients with normal findings on lymphangiograms had resolution of their pleural effusions and no evidence of recurrence during a follow-up period of 1-27 months. One patient with normal findings on lymphangiography had an alternative diagnosis established at surgery. Laceration of the thoracic duct was accurately diagnosed and localized with lymphangiography, which allowed definitive surgical repair. CT was of little additional value in diagnosing these injuries. 
Bilateral diaphragm paralysis after cardiac surgery with topical hypothermia. Bilateral diaphragm paralysis is a rare but important complication of open heart surgery. Two cases were found among 360 prospectively studied patients undergoing open heart surgery during one year. Both patients had insulin dependent diabetes with peripheral neuropathy and this may have contributed to their diaphragm paralysis. The patients were studied postoperatively for one year with measurements of lung function, nocturnal oximetry, diaphragmatic function, and phrenic nerve conduction. Treatment with intermittent positive airway pressure ventilation by nasal mask was effective in both patients. After nine months one patient had recovered completely with normal phrenic nerve conduction and diaphragmatic function; the other continues most of his normal daytime activities, but still requires nasal positive airway pressure ventilation for six hours at night. 
Physiological and anatomical evidence for a magnocellular defect in developmental dyslexia. Several behavioral studies have shown that developmental dyslexics do poorly in tests requiring rapid visual processing. In primates fast, low-contrast visual information is carried by the magnocellular subdivision of the visual pathway, and slow, high-contrast information is carried by the parvocellular division. In this study, we found that dyslexic subjects showed diminished visually evoked potentials to rapid, low-contrast stimuli but normal responses to slow or high-contrast stimuli. The abnormalities in the dyslexic subjects' evoked potentials were consistent with a defect in the magnocellular pathway at the level of visual area 1 or earlier. We then compared the lateral geniculate nuclei from five dyslexic brains to five control brains and found abnormalities in the magnocellular, but not the parvocellular, layers. Studies using auditory and somatosensory tests have shown that dyslexics do poorly in these modalities only when the tests require rapid discriminations. We therefore hypothesize that many cortical systems are similarly divided into a fast and a slow subdivision and that dyslexia specifically affects the fast subdivisions. 
High expression of the DNA methyltransferase gene characterizes human neoplastic cells and progression stages of colon cancer. DNA methylation abnormalities occur consistently in human neoplasia including widespread hypomethylation and more recently recognized local increases in DNA methylation that hold potential for gene inactivation events. To study this imbalance further, we have cloned and localized to chromosome 19 a portion of the human DNA methyltransferase gene that codes for the enzyme catalyzing DNA methylation. Expression of this gene is low in normal human cells, significantly increased (30- to 50-fold by PCR analysis) in virally transformed cells, and strikingly elevated in human cancer cells (several hundredfold). In comparison to colon mucosa from patients without neoplasia, median levels of DNA methyltransferase transcripts are 15-fold increased in histologically normal mucosa from patients with cancers or the benign polyps that can precede cancers, 60-fold increased in the premalignant polyps, and greater than 200-fold increased in the cancers. Thus, increases in DNA methyltransferase gene expression precede development of colonic neoplasia and continue during progression of colonic neoplasms. These increases may play a role in the genetic instability of cancer and mark early events in cell transformation. 
Arachidonic acid and docosahexaenoic acid are increased in human colorectal cancer. Increased arachidonic acid concentrations in experimental rodent colonic cancer have been described recently. In humans, a reduced erythrocyte stearic acid to oleic acid ratio has been reported in patients with colorectal cancer and it has been proposed that similar changes exist in the cancer tissue. The long chain fatty acids in the cancers of 15 patients with colorectal cancer were measured and compared with values in the unaffected mucosa. The values were expressed as mean (SD) mg fatty acid/g tissue and compared by analysis of variance. In the cancer tissue arachidonic acid was increased (0.703 (0.109) mg/g v 0.603 (0.127) mg/g, p less than 0.05) as was docosahexaenoic acid (0.211 (0.066) mg/g v 0.148 (0.039) mg/g, p less than 0.001). In contrast, the stearic acid to oleic acid ratio in the cancer tissue was increased rather than decreased, as previously suggested (0.36 (0.05) v 0.29 (0.7), p less than 0.01). Increased arachidonic acid and docosahexaenoic acid concentrations may be related to reduced lipid peroxidation, which is a feature of rapidly growing cells. Alternatively, the increased arachidonic acid values could be due to enhanced desaturase activity upon linoleic and linolenic acid, leading perhaps to increased formation of prostaglandins and other lipoxygenase products. 
bcl-1 rearrangement. Frequency and clinical significance among B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The authors investigated the structural organization of the bcl-1 locus, a putative oncogene associated with reciprocal chromosomal translocation t(11;14), by Southern blot hybridization analysis and its frequency, distribution, and prognostic significance in a panel of 156 clinically and pathologically well-defined B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias (CLLs) and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs). The authors detected bcl-1 rearrangements in only 2 of 42 CLLs and 4 of 114 NHLs, specifically 3 of 29 diffuse small lymphocytic and 1 of 10 diffuse small cleaved cell and none of 5 diffuse intermediate lymphocytic, 13 follicular predominantly small cleaved, 17 follicular mixed small cleaved and large cell, 4 diffuse mixed small and large cell, 26 diffuse large cell, and 10 diffuse small noncleaved cell lymphomas. None of seven cases of Rai stage III or IV CLL or seven diffuse large cell lymphomas occurring as Richter's syndrome exhibited bcl-1 rearrangements. In conclusion, the bcl-1 locus rearranges in only about 4% of B-cell CLLs and NHLs, is predominantly rearranged in low-grade B-cell neoplasms, and does not appear to be preferentially associated with those occasional CLLs and low-grade NHLs displaying clinical aggressiveness, advanced clinical stage, or large cell transformation (Richter's syndrome). Therefore the demonstration of bcl-1 rearrangement does not appear to have clinically useful prognostic significance. 
Long-term spinal administration of morphine in cancer and non-cancer pain: a retrospective study. Records of 313 patients who had been treated with spinal morphine via an implanted Port-A-Cath were reviewed. In 284 cases the Port-A-Cath was implanted for epidural delivery of morphine in patients with cancer-related pain. These patients were treated for a mean of 96 (range 1-1215) days. There was a wide variation in dose requirements, minimum daily dose ranging from 0.5 to 200 mg and maximum daily dose from 1 to 3072 mg. However, there was no clear trend to increasing dose as period of epidural morphine administration increased. The most frequent complications were pain on injection (12.0% incidence), occlusion of the portal system (10.9%), infection (8.1%) and leakage of administered morphine such that it did not all reach the epidural space (2.1%). In all but 1 case infections were limited to the area around the portal or along the catheter track. All infections resolved without sequelae following removal of the portal and/or administration of antibiotics. In 17 patients Port-A-Caths were implanted for the intrathecal delivery of morphine to control cancer-related pain. These patients also exhibited wide variations in morphine dose requirements. Port-A-Caths were also implanted for delivery of spinal morphine in 12 patients with chronic pain which was not related to cancer and which failed to respond to other therapies. These patients were treated for a mean of 155 (range 2-575) days. Port-A-Caths were removed from 7 of these patients, primarily due to infection (2 cases) and inadequate pain relief and pain on injection (2 cases). 
Naloxone reverses pattern of obstruction of the distal common bile duct induced by analgesic narcotics in hepatobiliary imaging. It is widely known that narcotics, such as morphine, cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi, increasing pressure in the common bile duct. This pharmacologic effect has been applied to hepatobiliary scintigraphy in patients with chronic cholecystitis or cholestasis to reducing the time required for a diagnostic study. However, this feature of narcotics could result in delayed or nonvisualization of the small bowel, simulating a distal common bile duct obstruction, in patients requiring parenteral narcotic analgesics who must undergo hepatobiliary scintigraphy. We report on three patients where administration of intravenous naloxone hydrochloride (Narcan), a narcotic antagonist, was helpful in distinguishing narcotic-induced spasm of the sphincter of Oddi from true obstruction of the common bile duct. 
Intrarectal sonography. A new technique for the assessment of rectal tumors. Preoperative staging of rectal tumors provides a selective therapeutic approach. Twenty-three patients were evaluated with prospective intrarectal sonography. Endosonography identified all 21 rectal lesions. Two patients with previous rectal carcinoma had no evidence of recurrence. Thirteen of 17 patients (76%) with rectal carcinoma were correctly staged by endosonography. A submucosal leiomyosarcoma and pararectal arachnoid cyst were correctly identified. Preoperative assessment of lymph node status was accurate in five of ten patients (50%). Results of preoperative digital rectal examination predicting rectal wall involvement correlated with pathologic findings in 11 of 15 patients (73%). Intrarectal sonography is an important staging technique for preoperative evaluation of rectal wall invasion and guides appropriate surgical intervention. 
Anatomic consideration for sacral screw placement. Instrumentation of the lumbosacral spine increasingly involves screw fixation to the sacrum. Recommended locations and techniques for screw placement vary, particularly when bicortical purchase of the sacrum is performed. The purpose of this study was to describe the critical anatomy and potential injuries to neurovascular and visceral structures anterior to the sacrum. Lack of awareness can lead to life-threatening complications. The study included 22 fresh human cadavers with no prior spinal surgery. Specimens were placed in a prone position, and the lumbosacral spine was exposed. Two 6.5-mm screws were inserted using one of two techniques, respectively: Starting just inferior to the S1 facet one screw was angled 25 degrees caudally and 30 degrees laterally; in the second technique, lateral inclination was increased to 45 degrees. In addition, all specimens had screws placed in the S2 pedicles. An anterior dissection was performed to allow evaluation of the neurovascular and visceral structures at risk for injury by, or adjacent to, the screw tips. All significant neurovascular structures in the area of concern were constant in position. The internal iliac vein and the lumbosacral nerve trunk were most at risk for injury by the 30 and 45 degrees laterally directed screws. The sigmoid colon, though close to the S2 screw, was protected by its mesentery. Screws placed in the S1 pedicle were least likely to injure the neurovascular bundle. A lateral and a midline safe zone were identified. 
Plasma sodium-potassium ATPase inhibition activity in low- and normal-renin hypertension. Thirty-seven subjects with low- and normal-renin hypertension (plasma renin activity less than 0.45 ng/L/sec on a 100 mmol Na diet) were studied on a 10 and 100 mmol sodium diet (100 mmol K and 25 mmol Ca) to examine the effect of varied sodium intake on plasma Na,K-ATPase inhibitory activity (NKAIA) (% inhibition). On the 10 mmol Na diet, plasma NKAIA correlated with mean arterial pressure (MAP) (r = 0.384, P = .019). On the 100 mmol Na diet, plasma NKAIA correlated with daily urinary sodium excretion (r = 0.384, P = .019). With the increase in sodium intake, the mean change in MAP was 0.5 +/- 7.8 mm Hg (range -12.7 to 16.3) and the mean change in plasma NKAIA was -4.2 +/- 11.2% inhibition (range -37.5 to 16). The change in MAP was correlated to the change in plasma NKAIA (r = 0.384, P = .019). Plasma NKAIA is related to mean arterial pressure or urinary sodium excretion depending on the dietary sodium intake, and is related to sodium-induced changes in MAP in low and normal renin hypertensive patients. 
Prevention of stroke by antihypertensive drug treatment in older persons with isolated systolic hypertension. Final results of the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP). SHEP Cooperative Research Group OBJECTIVE.--To assess the ability of antihypertensive drug treatment to reduce the risk of nonfatal and fatal (total) stroke in isolated systolic hypertension. DESIGN.--Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled. SETTING.--Community-based ambulatory population in tertiary care centers. PARTICIPANTS.--4736 persons (1.06%) from 447,921 screenees aged 60 years and above were randomized (2365 to active treatment, 2371 to placebo). Systolic blood pressure ranged from 160 to 219 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure was less than 90 mm Hg. Of the participants, 3161 were not receiving antihypertensive medication at initial contact, and 1575 were. The average systolic blood pressure was 170 mm Hg; average diastolic blood pressure, 77 mm Hg. The mean age was 72 years, 57% were women, and 14% were black. INTERVENTIONS.--Participants were stratified by clinical center and by antihypertensive medication status at initial contact. For step 1 of the trial, dose 1 was chlorthalidone, 12.5 mg/d, or matching placebo; dose 2 was 25 mg/d. For step 2, dose 1 was atenolol, 25 mg/d, or matching placebo; dose 2 was 50 mg/d. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Primary.--Nonfatal and fatal (total) stroke. Secondary.--Cardiovascular and coronary morbidity and mortality, all-cause mortality, and quality of life measures. RESULTS.--Average follow-up was 4.5 years. The 5-year average systolic blood pressure was 155 mm Hg for the placebo group and 143 mm Hg for the active treatment group, and the 5-year average diastolic blood pressure was 72 and 68 mm Hg, respectively. The 5-year incidence of total stroke was 5.2 per 100 participants for active treatment and 8.2 per 100 for placebo. The relative risk by proportional hazards regression analysis was 0.64 (P = .0003). For the secondary end point of clinical nonfatal myocardial infarction plus coronary death, the relative risk was 0.73. Major cardiovascular events were reduced (relative risk, 0.68). For deaths from all causes, the relative risk was 0.87. CONCLUSION.--In persons aged 60 years and over with isolated systolic hypertension, antihypertensive stepped-care drug treatment with low-dose chlorthalidone as step 1 medication reduced the incidence of total stroke by 36%, with 5-year absolute benefit of 30 events per 1000 participants. Major cardiovascular events were reduced, with 5-year absolute benefit of 55 events per 1000. 
Ataxic hemiparesis associated with ipsilateral cerebellar syndrome caused by a paracentral gyrus lesion. The authors report a case of ataxic hemiparesis and an ipsilateral cerebellar syndrome in relation to a glioblastoma of the paracentral gyrus region. The physiopathology of this clinical presentation caused by compression of the corticopontine tract is discussed. 
Early angioplasty in patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by hypotension. Emergency percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed in 62 patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by hypotension. All patients were treated within 12 hours of the onset of chest pain. Angioplasty was completely successful (residual lesion less than or equal to 50%) in 48 patients, partially successful (patent vessel greater than 50% residual lesion) in four patients, and unsuccessful in 10 patients. Patients in whom angioplasty was successful had a hospital mortality rate of 19%; those in whom angioplasty was unsuccessful or only partially successful had hospital mortality rates of 60% and 50%, respectively, (p = 0.012). Patients with occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending vessel had the highest failure rate (42%) and the highest mortality rate (67%). Other univariate predictors of hospital mortality were older age and elevated end-diastolic pressure. Successful emergency angioplasty improves mortality in patients with acute infarction complicated by hypotension. 
Protection by 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 and dibutyryl cyclic AMP against complement-mediated hepatic necrosis in rats. 16,16-Dimethyl prostaglandin E2, a known cytoprotective agent, was examined for its ability to protect the liver against complement-mediated necrosis induced by an intravenous injection of a monoclonal antibody against a rat liver-specific antigen in rats. The hepatic injury induced by the antibody was characterized by (a) rapid development of numerous massive hemorrhagic foci of necrotic liver cells, (b) marked increases in serum liver enzyme activities and (c) pronounced reduction in the CH50 level, presumably as a result of complement consumption in the liver. Pretreatment with 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 at intraperitoneal doses of 20 and 100 micrograms/kg suppressed the hepatic injury, as evidenced by markedly mitigated liver-cell necrosis and much smaller increases in the serum-enzyme activities compared with the values in diseased control animals. The prostaglandin analogue failed to prevent serum complement consumption in response to the antibody injection or affect the CH50 level at the preinjury stage, indicating that neither complement inactivation nor interference with the antigen-antibody reaction was involved in the hepatic protection. The hepatoprotective doses of 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 produced a significant increase in liver cyclic AMP content in a dose-related manner. In addition, intravenous dibutyryl cyclic AMP at 3 and 10 mg/kg dose-dependently prevented histological and biochemical changes in the hepatic damage without altering the rate of reduction in serum complement activity. Like 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2, dibutyryl cyclic AMP did not affect the preinjury CH50 level. 
Iron chelation therapy and lung transplantation. Effects of deferoxamine on lung preservation in canine single lung transplantation. Reperfusion injury is a limiting factor in lung transplantation. Deferoxamine is an iron chelator that inhibits the formation of oxygen-derived free radicals. We investigated the effects of deferoxamine on posttransplantation lung function in a canine model of single lung transplantation. Twelve dogs underwent left lung transplantation after 20- to 24-hour hypothermic storage in a modified Euro-Collins solution. In six experiments donor and recipient received a 10 mg/kg dose of deferoxamine before harvest and transplantation, and 10 mg/kg was added to the preservation solution. Arterial oxygen tension, alveolar-arterial oxygen difference, pulmonary vascular resistance, and dynamic lung compliance were measured. Data were recorded for 6 hours after ligation of the native pulmonary artery. At the end of the study the mean arterial oxygen tension was 175.1 mm Hg for the deferoxamine treated group versus 71.1 mm Hg for the control group (p less than 0.001), and the alveolar-arterial oxygen difference was less in the deferoxamine-treated group: 502.3 versus 606.0 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). The mean pulmonary vascular resistance was lower throughout the study, and after 6 hours it was 455.1 dynes/sec/cm(-5) in the deferoxamine-treated group versus 663.7 dynes/sec/cm(-5) in the control group (p less than 0.035). Compliance was similar in both groups. We conclude that deferoxamine improves lung preservation and early posttransplantation function in canine single lung transplantation. 
Comparative efficacy and safety of bepridil and diltiazem in chronic stable angina pectoris refractory to diltiazem. The Bepridil Collaborative Study Group. The efficacy and safety of bepridil hydrochloride (200 to 400 mg/day) were evaluated in patients with chronic stable angina refractory to maximal tolerated doses of diltiazem (median 360 mg/day) in a randomized, multicenter, double-blind, parallel study. Baseline diltiazem data were obtained during a 2-week period, after which 86 patients were randomized to bepridil (n = 46) or diltiazem (n = 40). Angina frequency, nitroglycerin consumption and ischemic manifestations induced by exercise treadmill testing were evaluated over 8 weeks. Bepridil significantly (p less than 0.05) increased time to angina onset, time to 1 and 2 mm of ST-segment depression, total exercise time and total work over baseline values. Changes in time to angina onset and time to 1 mm of ST-segment depression were significantly (p less than 0.05) greater for bepridil than for diltiazem. Angina frequency and nitroglycerin consumption did not differ significantly between groups. Compared with baseline, bepridil significantly (p less than 0.001) decreased heart rate (mean 4 beats/min) and prolonged QTc (mean 35 ms). The most frequent adverse effects in both groups were nausea, asthenia, dizziness, headache and diarrhea. Four patients taking bepridil and 1 taking diltiazem withdrew from the study because of adverse reactions. No sudden deaths, myocardial infarctions or instances of sustained ventricular tachycardia or torsades de pointes occurred in either group. The data indicate that bepridil provided safe and effective antianginal and antiischemic therapy in patients with chronic stable angina who exhibited less than optimal response to maximal tolerated doses of diltiazem. 
Combined vitrectomy, cataract extraction, and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation in diabetic patients. Combined extracapsular cataract extraction, pars plana vitrectomy, and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation was performed in six eyes with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. These eyes all had minimal iris vascular changes and were at reasonably low risk for developing intraoperative and postoperative complications. The surgery must be relatively brief and the endophotocoagulation accurate. Initial visual acuities ranged from light perception to 4/200. With an average follow-up of 9.7 months, final acuities ranged from 4/200 to 20/40. 
Inefficacy and proarrhythmic effects of flecainide and encainide for sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of encainide and flecainide in treating patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias. DESIGN: Patients were treated with encainide or flecainide. Efficacy was assessed by comparing the results of programmed ventricular stimulation while patients received therapy with the results while they were drug free. SETTING: The electrophysiology laboratory of the University of California at San Francisco. PATIENTS: Forty-nine patients with spontaneous or inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation for whom treatment with at least one class IA antiarrhythmic agent had failed. INTERVENTIONS: Patients were treated with encainide, 35 to 50 mg three or four times daily, or flecainide, 100 to 200 mg twice daily. RESULTS: Arrhythmia worsened early in 5 of 16 patients receiving encainide and 3 of 33 patients receiving flecainide. Patients with poor left ventricular function were more likely to exhibit proarrhythmia (P = 0.02). Nine of eleven patients receiving encainide and 23 of 28 patients receiving flecainide who had repeat programmed ventricular stimulation while receiving drug therapy still had inducible, poorly tolerated ventricular tachycardia. CONCLUSION: Encainide and flecainide have a low efficacy rate and a high incidence of worsening of arrhythmia in patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias, particularly when this condition is associated with poor left ventricular function. 
Serial angiography in a spontaneous dissecting anterior cerebral artery aneurysm. Intracranial dissecting aneurysms are uncommon, and little is known concerning the natural history of these lesions. In this paper we present a rare case of dissecting aneurysm of the anterior cerebral artery in which a true diagnostic sign of "double lumen" was demonstrated. Sequential changes in angiographic features shown on serial angiographic studies are described, and diagnosis is briefly discussed. 
Pathogenesis of severe acute respiratory infections in the developing world: respiratory syncytial virus and parainfluenza viruses. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and parainfluenza viruses (PIVs) are the most frequently isolated pathogens in infants and children with acute lower respiratory infection (LRI) in the developed world. Less information is available about their importance in LRI in the developing world, but they are probably important there also. The pathogenesis of viral bronchiolitis and pneumonia involves inoculation and early replication in the upper respiratory tract, followed by aspiration into the lower respiratory tract when both the mucosal and systemic immune systems are involved in a specific response. Both disease and recovery reflect processes of viral replication (with attendant cellular destruction) and of immune response (with attendant direct cellular destruction and release of pathogenic, along with beneficial, mediators). Factors predisposing to bacterial superinfection are poorly understood except in animal models. Conditions leading to heightened susceptibility to severe disease in the developed world are particularly common in the developing world. Increasing information on RSV and PIV infections in the developing world will likely point to their importance. Strategies for prevention of severe illnesses due to these viruses will follow from concepts elucidated through animal models and studies of infants in the developed world. 
Magnetic resonance imaging in the staging of renal cell carcinoma. A prospective study has been carried out to examine the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the investigation of renal cell carcinoma in 24 patients. In all cases the inferior vena cava (IVC) was well demonstrated with MRI. In 14 out of 15 patients where surgical correlation was available, the MRI and operative staging were in agreement. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic (CT) staging were in agreement in 16 out of the 17 patients where both were performed. In one case, CT suggested hepatic invasion but this was found not to be present on MRI and at operation. Magnetic resonance imaging also provided substantial additional information in three patients, including two cases where MRI demonstrated a patent IVC that appeared occluded on CT (one of which also had vertebral metastases seen on MRI but missed on CT) and one case where CT failed to demonstrate minimal involvement of the IVC. Magnetic resonance imaging is an accurate means of staging renal cell carcinoma with clear advantages over CT. In no case in this series was inferior vena cavography found to be necessary. 
Monitoring of irrigating fluid absorption during transurethral prostatectomy. A study in anaesthetised patients using a 1% ethanol tag solution. A simple, reliable method to detect absorption of irrigating fluid during transurethral prostatectomy is to tag irrigating fluids with 1% ethanol and monitor expired breath ethanol concentrations. This method correlated well (n = 0.79) with other existing methods of absorption monitoring in 20 anaesthetised patients. Ethanol (1%) tagging does not alter the optical quality of the irrigating fluid and is harmless to the patient. The technique is non-invasive, repeatable, cheap and gives instant results. It can be used in anaesthetised or awake patients and can detect absorption of as little as 100-150 ml in any 10-minute period. 
Cholelithiasis after treatment for childhood cancer. The authors evaluated the risk of development of cholelithiasis in 6050 patients treated at a single hospital for various childhood cancers with different therapeutic modalities, including chemotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, and bone marrow transplantation, from 1963 to 1989. Patients with underlying chronic hemolytic anemia or preexisting gallstones were excluded. Nine female and seven male patients with a median age of 12.4 years (range, 1.2 to 22.8 years) at diagnosis of primary cancer had gallstones develop 3 months to 17.3 years (median, 3.1 years) after therapy was initiated. Cumulative risks of 0.42% at 10 years and 1.03% at 18 years after diagnosis substantially exceed those reported for the general population of this age group. Treatment-related factors significantly associated with an increased risk of cholelithiasis were ileal conduit, parenteral nutrition, abdominal surgery, and abdominal radiation therapy (relative risks and 95% confidence intervals = 61.6 [27.9-135.9], 23.0 [9.8-54.1], 15.1 [7.1-32.2], and 7.4 [3.2-17.0], respectively). There was no correlation with the type of cancer, nor was the frequency of conventional predisposing features (e.g., family history, obesity, use of oral contraceptives, and pregnancy) any higher among the affected patients in this study than in the general population. Patients with cancer who have risk factors identified here should be monitored for the development of gallstones. 
Long-term effect of thrombolytic therapy on left ventricular ejection fraction after acute myocardial infarction. To assess the long-term effect of thrombolytic therapy on left ventricular (LV) systolic function, 222 patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator within 4 hours of symptom onset underwent assessment of LV ejection fraction (EF) by radionuclide equilibrium angiography at hospital discharge and 1 year later. Mean EF at hospital discharge (46 +/- 12) was similar to that at 1 year (45 +/- 13). Stepwise multivariate linear regression analysis identified EF at discharge and patency of the infarct-related artery before discharge as independent predictors of EF change at 1 year (p = 0.0002 and 0.003, respectively). Random assignments to invasive versus conservative treatment strategies or to early versus delayed beta-blocker therapy did not affect EF change during follow-up. No significant deterioration of EF was observed in patients with larger infarcts. However, EF decreased from 45 +/- 10 at hospital discharge to 39 +/- 12 (p = 0.005) at 1-year follow-up in a subgroup of patients with history of prior infarction. Thus, patients with acute myocardial infarction, treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator early after onset of symptoms, appear to have stable LV function between hospital discharge and 1 year follow-up. The change in EF between hospital discharge and 1 year can be predicted from the EF value at discharge, patency of the infarct-related artery before discharge and history of previous myocardial infarction. 
Effect of insulin and plasma amino acid concentration on leucine metabolism in cirrhosis. Clinically stable patients with cirrhosis demonstrate insulin resistance with regard to glucose metabolism. However, much less is known about the two major factors, insulin and plasma amino acid concentration, that regulate protein metabolism in cirrhotic patients. To examine this question, we performed paired euglycemic insulin clamp studies in combination with 14C-leucine and indirect calorimetry. In the first study insulin alone was infused, and the plasma amino acid concentration was allowed to decline. During the second study a balanced amino acid solution was infused with insulin to increase the total plasma amino acid concentration approximately twofold. Insulin-mediated glucose disposal (4.68 vs. 6.45 mg/kg-min, p less than 0.01) was significantly impaired by 30% in cirrhotic patients during both insulin clamp studies. In the postabsorptive state, cirrhotic patients manifested low plasma leucine (76 vs. 102 mumol/L) and alpha-ketoisocaproate (19 vs. 30 mumol/L) concentrations, but all parameters of leucine turnover were normal. When insulin alone was infused, the endogenous leucine flux (an index of protein degradation) declined similarly in cirrhotic patients (30.8 mumol/m2-min) and control (26.9) subjects, and this was accompanied by a similar decrease in plasma leucine concentration (31% vs. 33%). The decline in circulating leucine concentration was accompanied by a parallel decline in leucine oxidation (5.1 vs. 4.6 mumol/m2-min) and nonoxidative (28.9 vs. 26.0 mumol/m2-min) leucine disposal, which were of similar magnitude in cirrhotic patients and control subjects, respectively. In both cirrhotic patients and control subjects, combined hyperinsulinemia/hyperaminoacidemia elicited a similar stimulation of nonoxidative leucine disposal (an index of protein synthesis) and leucine oxidation while causing a greater suppression of endogenous leucine flux than observed with insulin alone. Thus the suppressive effect of insulin on protein degradation and the stimulatory effect of insulin/amino acid infusion on protein synthesis are not impaired in cirrhotic patients, demonstrating a clear-cut dissociation between the effects of insulin on protein and glucose metabolism. 
Novel approach to iatrogenic bile peritonitis. Bile peritonitis after injury to the biliary tree is a serious complication that requires exploratory laparotomy. Our patient had an obstructing ampullary carcinoma, and generalized bile peritonitis developed from attempted percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography. The patient's condition was managed by peritoneal lavage and endoscopic transampullary stenting, with immediate relief of pain and toxicity. Exploratory laparotomy was avoided, and an eventual pylorus-sparing Whipple resection was the definitive treatment. We believe this to be the first report of successful nonoperative treatment of a patient with bile peritonitis with obstructive jaundice. 
Comparative efficacy of cimetidine, famotidine, ranitidine, and mylanta in postoperative stress ulcers. Gastric pH control and ulcer prevention in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. To determine the comparative efficacy of several histamine (H2)-receptor antagonists (cimetidine, famotidine, and ranitidine) and the antacid Mylanta-II (Stuart Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, DE) in gastric pH control and the prevention of postoperative stress ulceration, a prospective, randomized study was performed in a homogeneous population of patients with elective coronary artery bypass. None of the 57 patients in the study population had a documented history of ulcer disease. There were four treatment groups, each with similar demographics (age and sex). Cimetidine-treated group consisted of 15, famotidine-treated group of 18, ranitidine-treated group of 19, and antacid-treated group of 5 patients. There was no hemodynamically significant postoperative gastrointestinal bleeding in any of the patients. When the agents were compared for efficacy of gastric pH control, statistically better pH control was found in the famotidine- and ranitidine-treated groups (P less than 0.003) than in the cimetidine-treated group (pH less than or equal to 4.0) during the 20-hour observation period. Side effects (hematologic and neurological) were noted only in the cimetidine-treated group. The results of this study indicate that in patients in postoperative intensive care, better gastric pH control, and thus prevention of gastric stress ulcers, is achieved with either famotidine or ranitidine rather than cimetidine or antacid. 
Abnormal permeability precedes the development of a gluten sensitive enteropathy in Irish setter dogs. Intestinal permeability to 51Cr-EDTA was examined during the development of gluten sensitive enteropathy in dogs bred from affected Irish setters and reared on a normal wheat containing diet. Comparisons were made with litter mates reared on a gluten free diet and with a control group of age matched, clinically healthy Irish setters reared on the normal diet. Studies at 4, 6, 8, and 12 months of age were correlated with morphometric and biochemical examinations of peroral jejunal biopsy specimens. Permeability was increased at all ages in the group fed gluten free diet compared with control dogs, although there were no differences in villus height, intraepithelial lymphocyte density, and alkaline phosphatase activity. At four months, permeability in the normal diet group was greater than in controls, although comparable with that in the gluten free diet group. Permeability in the normal diet group increased further in conjunction with the development of partial villus atrophy and reduced alkaline phosphatase activity, and by 12 months permeability was significantly greater than in their gluten free diet litter mates and the control dogs. The findings suggest that an underlying permeability abnormality may be involved in the pathogenesis of gluten sensitive enteropathy in Irish setter dogs. 
Acute inflammation: the underlying mechanism in delayed onset muscle soreness? It is well documented in animal and human research that unaccustomed eccentric muscle action of sufficient intensity and/or duration causes disruption of connective and/or contractile tissue. In humans, this appears to be associated with the sensation of delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). During the late 1970's, it was proposed that this sensation of soreness might be associated with the acute inflammatory response. However, subsequent research failed to substantiate this theory. The present article suggests that the results of much of the research concerning DOMS reflect events typically seen in acute inflammation. Similarities between the two events include: the cardinal symptoms of pain, swelling, and loss of function; evidence of cellular infiltrates, especially the macrophage; biochemical markers such as increased lysosomal activity and increased circulating levels of some of the acute phase proteins; and histological changes during the initial 72 h. In the final section of this paper, a theoretical sequence of events is proposed, based on research involving acute inflammation and DOMS. 
alpha Fetoprotein producing early gastric cancer with liver metastasis: report of three cases. Three cases of alpha fetoprotein producing early gastric cancer are presented. Liver metastases occurred in all patients shortly after curative gastrectomy and all died within two years. The incidence of liver metastasis was significantly higher than that in alpha fetoprotein negative early gastric carcinoma (p less than 0.001). The incidences of lymph node metastasis and invasion in lymph vessels and veins were also substantially higher in this group of patients. Two radical hepatic resections, including extended right lobectomy, were performed on one patient but the tumour recurred immediately. 
Abnormal left ventricular diastolic filling in eccentric left ventricular hypertrophy of obesity. Left ventricular (LV) diastolic filling pattern of obese subjects with eccentric LV hypertrophy was studied. Findings were compared with those of normal control subjects and hypertensive patients with concentric LV hypertrophy. M-mode, 2-dimensional and Doppler echocardiograms were recorded in 11 obese (body mass index greater than 30 kg/m2) normotensive patients with eccentric LV hypertrophy, 10 normal control subjects, and 18 nonobese, hypertensive patients with concentric LV hypertrophy whose antihypertensive medications were discontinued 2 weeks before study. LV hypertrophy was defined as LV mass/height greater than 143 g/m. Hypertrophy in the obese patients was eccentric: Their LV internal dimension (61 +/- 3 mm) was greater than that of hypertensive patients (55 +/- 5 mm, p less than 0.001) and normal control subjects (55 +/- 2 mm, p less than 0.01); their septal (10.7 +/- 0.7 mm) and posterior (10.9 +/- 0.6 mm) wall thicknesses were smaller than those of the hypertensive patients (12.2 +/- 1.7 mm, p less than 0.05 and 11.7 +/- 1.2 mm, respectively, difference not significant). Pulsed-wave Doppler echocardiographic filling indexes were used to evaluate LV diastolic filling. Obese patients had a higher peak velocity of atrial filling (69 +/- 14 vs 54 +/- 15 cm/s, p less than 0.05), lower early/atrial filling velocity ratio (1.0 +/- 0.26 vs 1.32 +/- 0.21, p less than 0.05), prolonged deceleration half-time (108 +/- 9 vs 86 +/- 15 ms, p less than 0.01) and lower peak filling rate corrected to stroke volume (4.08 +/- 0.68 vs 4.96 +/- 0.88 stroke volume/s, p less than 0.05) than normal control subjects. 
Coexistent hemangioblastoma and arteriovenous malformation of the cerebellum. Case report. A case of cerebellar hemangioblastoma and coexistent arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is presented. Angiography displayed the AVM, but histological examination revealed a coexisting hemangioblastoma. Various theories concerning the etiology of this condition are discussed. 
Branched-chain-enriched amino acid solutions in patients with liver failure: an early example of nutritional pharmacology. The use of BCAA in the treatment of hepatic failure has been controversial. Even in retrospect, it is difficult to know why this controversy existed and why it has been so emotional, except for the fact that such a treatment modality has flown in the face of conventional therapy of hepatic encephalopathy, and also, probably more importantly, directly attacked some of the cherished notions of the nature of hepatic encephalopathy. Time and distance have allowed some of the controversy to die down, and as time has elapsed it has become clear that at least in the area of nutritional support of patients with hepatic failure, BCAA are the preferred alternative to treat patients who are otherwise protein intolerant. A recent unbiased review using the techniques of meta-analysis has concluded that the BCAA are efficacious for the treatment of patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Since this manuscript was completed another study has been reported. In this study, it was notable that those patients treated with oral BCAA became neurologically normal, a finding which the authors found very striking. 
Effect of epidural clonidine on analgesia and pharmacokinetics of epidural fentanyl in postoperative patients. Epidural clonidine produces postoperative analgesia in patients and potentiates opioid analgesia in animals. The aim of the current study was to assess the effect of epidural clonidine on the plasma concentrations and analgesic effect of fentanyl after epidural administration. Twenty ASA physical status 2 or 3 patients recovering from abdominal surgery were allocated randomly to receive either epidural fentanyl (100 micrograms in 10 ml isotonic saline; EF group) or epidural fentanyl (same dose) plus epidural clonidine (150 micrograms; EF + C group) in isotonic saline solution. Analgesia was assessed over a period of 12 h after epidural injection. Venous samples were obtained until 360 min after epidural injection for radioimmunoassay determination of plasma fentanyl concentration. Onset of analgesia was similar in the two groups of patients (13 +/- 6 and 13 +/- 3 min, respectively, after injection), but duration was more than doubled in the patients receiving clonidine (543 +/- 183 vs. 250 +/- 64 min). Peak plasma fentanyl concentrations (Fmax) and the time to reach Cmax (Tmax) were comparable in the two groups (0.29 +/- 0.15 ng.ml-1 at 16.2 +/- 14.8 min in the EF group and 0.27 +/- 0.11 ng.ml-1 at 8.3 +/- 5.5 min in the EF + C group), as were plasma concentrations at each definite time of measurement. Drowsiness and hypotension were noticed in the EF + C group. Thus, epidural clonidine appears to prolong epidural fentanyl analgesia without affecting its plasma concentration. 
Tissue-specific activation of cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme in experimental heart failure. In addition to the circulating renin-angiotensin system, recent data demonstrate the existence of tissue renin-angiotensin systems that may be important in cardiovascular homeostasis. However, the relative activities of the circulating and tissue renin-angiotensin systems have not been examined previously in pathophysiological states, such as congestive heart failure. The present study was performed to examine the status of plasma and tissue angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activities in compensated experimental heart failure induced by coronary artery ligation in the rat. Three groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were examined: 1) nonoperated rats (NO, n = 5), 2) sham-operated rats (SO, n = 5), and 3) heart failure rats (HF, n = 11). Rats were studied an averaged of 85 days postoperatively. In HF animals, plasma renin concentration and serum ACE activities were not different compared with NO and SO control animals. Cardiac ACE activity was 50% greater in the right ventricle than the interventricular septum in NO and SO rats. Both right ventricular and interventricular septal ACE activity increased approximately twofold in HF animals as compared with NO and SO groups (p less than 0.05). In contrast, pulmonary, aortic, and renal ACE activities were not altered in HF rats compared with control animals. A positive correlation existed between the histopathological size of myocardial infarction and the level of right ventricular ACE activity (r = 0.75, p less than or equal to 0.05). Such a relation between infarct size and either serum or noncardiac tissue ACE activities was not observed. 
Safety and possible efficacy of fiberoptic bronchoscopy with lavage in the management of refractory asthma with mucous impaction. Mucous impaction may be suspected in asthmatic exacerbation when, despite aggressive medical management, patients continue to produce sputum containing mucous plugs and exhibit prominent rhonchi and/or wheezes on chest auscultation. Spirometric measurements in this setting corroborate lack of improvement and reveal significant impairment in indices that may reflect small airways function (FEF25-75). We hypothesized that clearance of inspissated secretions by fiberoptic bronchoscopy with lavage (FOBwL) may promote or hasten the clinical improvement of such patients. Fifty-one therapeutic FOBwL were accomplished in 19 patients during 20 episodes of stabilized yet refractory asthma with mucous impaction. No significant complications were encountered. After FOBwL, spirometric measurements of FEV1, FEF25-75, and FVC increased significantly (P less than .01, paired t test), and correlated with relief of dyspnea and mobilization of secretions with cough. FOBwL can be safely performed in stabilized, refractory asthma, and with apparent efficacy. Further investigation is needed to document the therapeutic utility of FOBwL in refractory asthma. 
Ultrasonic evaluation of gallbladder function prior to non-surgical treatment of gallstones. A comparative analysis of ultrasonic and oral cholecystographic assessment of gallbladder function in symptomatic patients with cholelithiasis is presented. Ultrasonic evaluation demonstrated non-contractile gallbladders in all but one patient with non-opacification during oral cholecystography, whereas all those opacifying on oral cholecystography contracted on ultrasonography. Both techniques showed similar abilities to quantify the size and number of biliary calculi within the limits necessary to determine suitability for treatment. Although computed tomography remains necessary to quantify gallstone density prior to non-surgical treatment, ultrasonography is a safe, acceptable, cheap and preferable alternative to oral cholecystography in assessing gallbladder function. 
Emergence of a B-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: evidence for the single-cell origin of the two tumors. A patient is described who presented with a chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and later developed a lymphoblastic lymphoma. The cells from the CLL were typical mature B lymphocytes as could be assessed by morphologic, cytochemical, and surface marker analyses. The cells from the lymphoblastic lymphoma were immature B cells that expressed CD10, CD20, and HLA-DR markers, but not surface Ig or cytoplasmic mu chains, and were negative for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT). The cells of two continuous cell lines, obtained from the bone marrow and the peripheral blood of the patient, had the same phenotype as the lymphoblastic lymphoma cells, did not contain the Epstein-Barr virus genome, and displayed malignant features in vitro, including the capacity to form colonies in agar. The two cell lines also shared identical chromosomal abnormalities, a finding which suggests that they derived from the same malignant cell already present in vivo. Such chromosomal abnormalities were not seen in the karyotype of the peripheral blood cells at the onset of the disease. Analysis of the Ig heavy chain genes using a DJ-specific probe showed the very same monoclonal rearrangement in the cells from the B-CLL, the lymphoblastic lymphoma and the two cell lines, thus demonstrating their common clonal origin. By contrast, a monoclonal rearrangement of the lambda chain gene locus was found in the B-CLL cells only, a finding consistent with their exclusive capacity to express surface IgM lambda. This patient represents a rare case in whom a chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with mature malignant cells transforms into a lymphoblastic lymphoma characterized by cells frozen at a very early maturational stage. The possible mechanisms leading to such transformation within the same cell clone are discussed. 
Wildervanck or cervico-oculo-acoustic syndrome and MRI findings. In 1952, Wildervanck described the first case of what he styled the cervico-oculo-acoustic (COA) syndrome. This comprises Klippel Feil's (KF) anomaly (congenitally fused cervical vertebrae), congenital sensorineural deafness and Duane's retraction syndrome (deficient abduction with retraction on adduction). Since that original paper, there have been further reports describing this triad, either completely or incompletely. A further case of this syndrome is reported and the first report of MRI head scan findings in this condition is presented. In addition, the origin of mirror movements observed as part of the KF syndrome are discussed. 
Hepatobiliary cryptosporidiosis and cytomegalovirus infection mimicking metastatic cancer to the liver. A cholestatic syndrome caused by sclerosing cholangitis and papillary stenosis has been described in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hepatobiliary cryptosporidiosis and cytomegalovirus infection. The case of a 41-year-old homosexual man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, and cholestasis is reported. A percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram showed that the extrahepatic and right-sided intrahepatic ducts were normal. Computerized tomography of the abdomen showed multiple hypodense lesions in the liver. Guided needle biopsies of several of these lesions showed severe confluent necrotizing pericholangitis with cytomegalovirus-infected cells. Numerous cryptosporidia were seen attached to biliary epithelium. The unique histopathologic and radiographic features of this case should be added to the spectrum of hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Multiple miliary osteoma cutis. We describe the clinical, radiographic, histologic, and metabolic features of an unusual case of multiple miliary osteoma cutis in an otherwise healthy 57-year-old woman. Although the pathogenesis of this rarely reported entity is not fully understood, the novel application of a dynamic bone study revealed a high rate of internal bone remodeling within the lesion. This finding prompted a brief therapeutic trial of a diphosphonate, not previously reported in the treatment of this condition. 
A prospective study of respiratory failure after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta. From June 1960 to September 1990, 1414 patients underwent repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms, of whom 112 (8%) had pulmonary complications requiring respiratory support with tracheostomy; subsequently 45 (40%) died in the hospital. We determined by stepwise logistic regression analysis, in a prospective study of high-risk type I and II thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms repairs, the independent predictors of respiratory failure, defined as respiratory ventilation exceeding 48 hours after operation. In 98 patients studied, 38 (39%) were women, 60 (61%) were men, 54 (55%) had type II thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms, 34 (35%) had aortic dissection, 19 (19%) were nonsmokers, 40 (41%) exsmokers, and 39 (40%) active smokers. Before operation, 55 (56%) had chronic pulmonary disease with respiratory failure developing in 58% (p = 0.0005 versus no chronic pulmonary disease, 10/43, 23%), and of the 26 patients in the lower quarter of forced expiratory volume (1 sec) (FEV1 less than or equal to 1.45 L) respiratory failure developed in 61% (p = 0.035). In-hospital survival was 98% and 83% (p = 0.008), respectively, and cumulative survival at 6 months by Kaplan-Meier analysis was 96% and 80% (p = 0.004, log-rank test), respectively, for patients without respiratory failure (N = 56/98, 57%) and with respiratory failure (N = 42/98, 43%). On univariate analysis, the following were associated with respiratory failure (p less than 0.05): FEV1, FEV1% predicted, FVC, FEF25, FEF25% predicted, FEF25-75, FEF25-75% predicted, PaCO2 Pao2, symptoms, smoking history, chronic pulmonary disease, cryoprecipitate volume, postoperative neuromuscular deficit, cardiac complications, reoperation for bleeding, renal complication, stress ulceration, postoperative creatinine level, postoperative dialysis, and postoperative encephalopathy. The independent predictors of respiratory failure were (p less than 0.05): chronic pulmonary disease, smoking history, cardiac and renal complications. In patients with chronic pulmonary disease, the only independent predictor was FEF25 (p = 0.030). These observations may be of value in selecting patients for elective operation. 
Preventive therapy for malaria. The incidence of malaria in travelers returning to the United States has been increasing. Persons visiting areas where malaria is endemic should use insect repellent, wear clothing that covers the arms and legs, and remain in screened areas between dusk and dawn. Chemoprophylaxis for travelers consists of weekly doses of chloroquine; a new drug, mefloquine, should be used in the increasing number of countries where chloroquine-resistant malaria is found. Travelers to these areas should carry three tablets of pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine, which should be taken for presumptive treatment of malaria at the onset of chills and fever. It is essential that chemoprophylaxis be continued for four to five weeks after departure from endemic areas. In travelers who develop symptoms of malaria after returning from an endemic area, it is imperative that treatment be started even if blood smears are negative. 
Wohlfart-Kugelberg-Welander syndrome: serum creatine kinase and functional outcome. The medical records of 31 patients (19 male and 12 female) with clinical and electrophysiologic features of Wohlfart-Kugelberg-Welander syndrome were reviewed. The reported age at onset ranged from less than one year to 46 years, and the age at diagnosis ranged from three to 66 years. Proximal muscle weakness, especially of the lower extremities, and muscular atrophy were the predominant clinical features. Elevated serum creatine kinase levels were noted in four female and 12 male patients, and the degree of elevation was higher in the male patients (up to 32 times the upper limit of normal) than in the female patients. On initial evaluation, two patients were wheelchair-bound, whereas the others were ambulatory. On follow-up evaluation three to 32 years later (mean, 15.5 years), 11 patients used wheelchairs, although only three were wheelchair-bound. The disease followed a steady, slowly progressive course. The outcome of ambulatory status did not correlate with the initial creatine kinase determination. 
Characterization of fibronectin attachment by a human transitional cell carcinoma line, T24. The ability of transitional cell carcinoma cells to adhere to and invade the extracellular matrix is important in invasion and metastasis. The glycoprotein fibronectin is associated with laminin and Type IV collagen in the bladder basement membrane. We characterized the interaction between T-24 cells, a cell line derived from an invasive transitional cell tumor, and fibronectin. The cells use the alpha 5 beta 1 heterodimeric integrin receptor complex to mediate adherence via the classical (RGDS) fibronectin binding site. The importance of the alpha 5 beta 1 receptor to T-24 function is unknown and under investigation. 
Human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 in adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix. Many reports have shown a link between human papillomavirus (HPV) and cervical squamous neoplasia. However, the association of HPV with cervical adenocarcinoma has been studied less extensively. The authors evaluated the presence of HPV-DNA in 106 patients with adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix by in situ hybridization, using 35S-labeled probes for HPV 16 DNA and HPV 18 DNA. The overall prevalence of HPV-DNA was 18% (19 of 106). HPV 16 was present in 2 (2%) cases, HPV 18 was observed in 15 (14%) cases, and both HPV 16 and HPV 18 were found in 2 (2%) cases. There was a correlation between HPV-DNA positivity and tumor stage (P less than 0.01) and tumor size (P less than 0.05), but there was no relationship between HPV-DNA positivity and tumor differentiation, proliferation (S-phase fraction), ploidy, lymph node metastases, or five-year survival rate. These results suggest that HPV 18 DNA is associated with cervical adenocarcinoma but the presence of HPV 18 has no influence on overall survival. 
Acute health effects in a community after a release of hydrofluoric acid. Approximately 3,000 persons were evacuated from a Texas community after 24,036 kg (53,000 lb) of caustic hydrofluoric acid (HF) were released from a nearby petrochemical plant. Emergency room and hospital records of 939 persons who were seen at two area hospitals were reviewed. Most persons who presented at the emergency rooms were female (56%) or black (60%), and their mean age was 33.9 y. The most frequently reported symptoms were eye irritation (41.5%), burning throat (21%), headache (20.6%), and shortness of breath (19.4%). Physical examination results were normal for 49% of the cases; however, irritation of the eyes, nose, throat, skin, and lungs were noted on other exams. Decreased pulmonary function was demonstrated by pulmonary function tests (forced expiratory volume in the first second, less than 80% of predicted value, 42.3%); hypoxemia (pO2 less than 80 mm Hg, 17.4%) and hypocalcemia (less than 8.5 mg/dl, 16.3%) were also noted. Ninety-four (10%) of the cases were hospitalized, and more than 83% of all cases were discharged with a primary diagnosis of "HF exposure." There are several reports of individuals who are acutely and chronically exposed to HF; however, we are unaware of other published reports that describe exposure of a community to HF. This incident represented a unique opportunity to study the immediate health impact on a community of residents who were exposed to a hazardous materials release. Results of this analysis suggest that (a) initial health problems should be followed up, (b) any long-term health effects of HF exposure must be assessed, and (c) the health impact on the population at risk should be determined. 
Nocturnal sleep in Huntington's disease. Nocturnal sleep was studied in 16 inpatients with Huntington's disease. In comparison with healthy controls, patients exhibited a disturbed sleep pattern with increased sleep onset latency, reduced sleep efficiency, frequent nocturnal awakenings, more time spent awake and less slow wave sleep. These abnormalities correlated in part with duration of illness, severity of clinical symptoms, and degree of atrophy of the caudate nucleus. Patients showed an increased density of sleep spindles. 
Persistent diarrhea and fecal shedding of retroviral nucleic acids in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus. Gastrointestinal dysfunction is a serious problem in many children infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the etiology of which has not been clearly defined. Quantitative nucleic acid amplification was used to study the correlation between shedding of HIV nucleic acids and gastrointestinal symptoms in HIV-infected infants and children. Many with HIV infection and persistent diarrheal disease shed HIV nucleic acids in their feces, as did an HIV-infected patient without apparent diarrheal disease. HIV nucleic acids were not found in feces of non-HIV-infected individuals. Intestinal infection with HIV appears to be important in the pathophysiology of gastrointestinal dysfunction in infants and children with HIV infection. Furthermore, the fecal shedding of HIV may play a role in HIV transmission in environments prone to high levels of fecal-oral contamination. 
Early orthopedic intervention in burn patients with major fractures. Surgical treatment of concurrent orthopedic trauma in burn patients is controversial. During a 10-year period, 101 patients were treated for major fractures and burn injuries. Twenty-eight patients with 34 fractures were treated with early operative fixation. The mean TBSA burned was 20%. Ten fractures were open (4 grade I, 5 grade II, and 1 grade III) and 24 were closed. Seventy-five percent of patients had a definitive orthopedic procedure within 24 hours of burn. Intramedullary nails were used in 13, ORIF in 15, external fixation in 3, and percutaneous fixation in 4. Ten patients had burns overlying the fracture site and the surgical incision was made through burned tissue. Four were associated with open fractures. Two orthopedic complications occurred: nonunion of a femoral neck fracture and angulation of a tibial plateau fracture. The goal of orthopedic management in the polytrauma burn patient is to achieve early reduction to allow optimal wound care and early patient mobility. A team approach to patient selection and management is mandatory. 
Deletion of mitochondrial DNA in patients with combined features of Kearns-Sayre and MELAS syndromes. A 9-year-old girl and an 11-year-old boy had ptosis, progressive external ophthalmoplegia, pigmentary retinopathy, and sensorineural hearing loss. The girl had diabetes mellitus and the boy had hypoparathyroidism. Both children also developed recurrent vomiting and cerebral infarcts with lactic acidosis. Muscle biopsy specimens showed ragged-red fibers and Southern analysis demonstrated a distinct heteroplasmic deletion of muscle mitochondrial DNA in each patient but no evidence of the point mutation in the transfer RNALeu(UUR) gene recently identified in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). These 2 children had combined features of Kearns-Sayre syndrome and MELAS, suggesting that mitochondrial DNA deletions occasionally can have pleomorphic clinical expression. 
Verbal dyspraxia in treated galactosemia. Galactosemia is an inborn error of metabolism that causes life-threatening illness a few days after galactose-containing milk is fed to a newborn. Early treatment with a strict lactose-free diet results in rapid improvement, and, until recently, it was thought that the long-term prognosis in such infants was usually good. The speech characteristics of 24 patients treated for galactosemia were examined. Fifty-four percent had the specific speech disorder, verbal dyspraxia. This finding was not related to age at diagnosis, severity of symptoms in the newborn period, or to biochemical control. There may be, however, a relation between dyspraxia and diminished IQ scores observed in the group of patients with dyspraxia judged as "severe." The findings indicate the association of a specific and unusual speech defect with a specific and rare metabolic disorder. 
Endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of gastro-oesophageal and colorectal malignancies. In a prospective study we compared the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology with that of brush cytology and forceps biopsy in relation to gross tumour pattern and site in 265 confirmed consecutive cases of malignancy of the oesophagus, stomach, colon, and rectum. Aspiration cytology gave the highest diagnostic accuracy (94%), which was significantly better than that of brush cytology (84.9%) and biopsy (87.2%) (p less than 0.005). The difference was mainly related to tumour pattern. When compared to brush cytology and biopsy aspiration cytology was significantly better in submucosal tumours (92.9% v 7.1% and 14.3%, p less than 0.001); in infiltrative malignancies (95.8% v 90.1% and 78.9%, p less than 0.01), and in ulceronecrotic malignancies (90.9% v 36.4% and 45.4%, p less than 0.05). In polypoid malignancies there was a significant trend (p less than 0.05) in favour of forceps biopsy, with a diagnostic yield of 100% compared with 95% for aspiration cytology and 93.3% for brush cytology. The accuracy of the different techniques was not significantly related to the site of the tumour. The cumulative accuracy of aspiration cytology and biopsy was significantly better than that of biopsy and brush cytology (98.5% v 90.9%, p less than 0.005). Aspiration cytology was diagnostic in 21 of 24 lesions that were negative with both brush cytology and biopsy. There were no false positive cytology or histology results. We conclude that aspiration cytology is a simple, safe, and reliable technique with a high diagnostic yield and is of particular value in submucosal, infiltrative, and ulceronecrotic tumours. 
Variation in intravaginal pressure measurements. The wide variation in intravaginal pressure measurements of the circumvaginal muscles (CVM) was studied in five subjects under well-controlled conditions. Previous research and clinical observations have indicated that fluctuations in the measurement of intravaginal pressure may be associated with time of day, day of testing, and existing stress factors. Subjects were assessed four times per day, on four consecutive days, for a total of 16 assessments. At each of the 16 conditions for a given subject, 10 CVM contractions lasting 12 seconds each were recorded and the variables, maximum pressure (MP10), peak maximum pressure (PMP), and abdominal pressure were analyzed. The within-subject variance was 15.5 (SD = 3.9); the between-subject variance was 132.4 (SD = 11.5). The effects of day, time, and stressor were analyzed by ANOVA specifically designed for variance estimates; no significant differences were found. The clinical observations that led to the study were not supported when systematically investigated. However, consistent data collection procedures appeared to reduce within-subject variance. 
Partial lamellar sclerouvectomy for ciliary body and choroidal tumors. The authors reviewed the postoperative course, visual results, histopathologic findings, and mortality data on 95 consecutive patients with tumors of the ciliary body and/or choroid who were managed by a partial lamellar sclerouvectomy. This surgical procedure is designed to remove the uveal tumor and leave intact the outer sclera and sensory retina. In this group of 95 patients, vitreous hemorrhage occurred in 79 (83%) cases, intraretinal or subretinal hemorrhage in 33 (35%), retinal detachment in 26 (28%), and cataract in 32 (34%). Most of the vitreous and retinal hemorrhages resolved spontaneously, sometimes leaving subretinal or preretinal fibrosis. A number of the postoperative retinal detachments resolved spontaneously, but retinal detachment surgery was necessary in 16 patients (17%), mostly in the earlier years of the survey. Most of the cataracts were mild and did not require surgery. The eventual postoperative visual acuity was equal to or better than the preoperative visual acuity in 23 cases (24%) over a mean follow-up period of 5 years. Enucleation was eventually necessary in 15 cases (16%), usually because of residual or recurrent tumor. Histopathologic diagnosis was uveal melanoma in 81 cases (85%) and other tumors in 14 cases (15%). There were no orbital recurrences, but distant metastases developed in five patients (5%), all of whom had undergone enucleation for recurrence of the intraocular melanoma. Although the surgical technique is difficult, partial lamellar sclerouvectomy appears to be a reasonable therapeutic option in selected cases of posterior uveal tumors. 
Telecanthal approach for meningiomas in the ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses. In three cases involving meningiomas in the ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses, transbasal spreading of the interocular distance (telecanthal approach) was used for tumor removal and reconstruction of the skull base. This telecanthal approach involves 1) bilateral en bloc removal of the superior lateral rim of the orbit, the nasal bone, and the posterior lateral wall of the orbit; 2) detachment of the medial canthal ligaments; and 3) spreading of the interocular distance. This approach provides a wide working space beneath the anterior half of the midline skull base, and needs neither a facial incision nor significant retraction of the brain. The surgical technique and its modification are described. The discussion focuses not only on comparisons with other techniques, but on the indications for this approach. Meningiomas originating in the paranasal sinuses are rare; a brief review of the literature concerning the clinicopathological features and pathogenesis is also given. 
National outcomes of cataract extraction. Endophthalmitis following inpatient surgery. We analyzed the likelihood of rehospitalization for endophthalmitis in 338,141 Medicare beneficiaries over age 65 years who were admitted to US hospitals for cataract extraction in 1984. This cohort represents approximately one half of all persons who underwent cataract extraction under the Medicare program in 1984. Extracapsular extraction was performed in 195,587 (58%) of cases, intracapsular cataract extraction in 99,971 (30%), and phacoemulsification in 28,474 (8%). The risk of rehospitalization for endophthalmitis in the year following surgery was 0.17% for intracapsular cataract extraction compared with 0.12% for extracapsular extraction or phacoemulsification (P less than .002). The risk of endophthalmitis at 1 month was higher for intracapsular cataract extraction than for extracapsular extraction or phacoemulsification (0.11% vs 0.085%), although the difference did not reach statistical significance. Cataract surgery accompanied by anterior vitrectomy increased the 1-month risk of rehospitalization for endophthalmitis to 0.41%, more than a four-fold increase over that for cataract surgery alone (0.09%; P less than .05). The rates of endophthalmitis at 1 year were 0.58% and 0.13%, respectively, for cataract surgery with anterior vitrectomy and cataract surgery alone (P less than .0001). No significant differences in the rate of rehospitalization for endophthalmitis were observed based on the use of an intraocular lens, age, or race. Endophthalmitis within 1 year of surgery was 1.2 times more frequent in men than in women (0.16% vs 0.13%; P = .03). Overall, the likelihood of postoperative endophthalmitis from a national sample is consistent with case series previously reported. 
Plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 in experimental malignant hypertension. We measured plasma concentrations of immunoreactive endothelin-1 (irET-1) in the prehypertensive and hypertensive phases in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and in malignant hypertension caused by deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt administration in SHR. We also measured concentrations of this peptide in another model of malignant hypertension, the two-kidney, one clip (2K1C) renovascular hypertensive rats chronically given caffeine. Plasma irET-1 concentrations in young (6-week-old) and mature (18-week-old) SHR did not differ from those of age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Four weeks of treatment with DOCA-salt increased blood pressure, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and plasma irET-1 in SHR but not in WKY rats. Eight weeks of DOCA-salt treatment further increased these values in SHR. Plasma irET-1 concentrations were not increased in the 2K1C rats. Six weeks of caffeine administration increased blood pressure, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, plasma renin activity, and plasma irET-1 in the 2K1C rats but not in the sham-operated rats. High-performance liquid chromatographic profiles of plasma extracts pooled from these rats with malignant hypertension showed that a major component of irET-1 eluted in the position of synthetic ET-1 (1-21). Furthermore, acute hypertension induced by angiotensin II or phenylephrine did not affect the plasma irET-1 concentration in rats. The results suggested that the plasma ET-1 concentration is increased in rat models of malignant hypertension and that the high blood pressure itself is not the main factor involved in the increase of plasma ET-1. 
Stage B adenocarcinoma of the prostate: transrectal US and pathologic correlation of nonmalignant hypoechoic peripheral zone lesions. Various benign conditions have been found to cause hypoechoic lesions in the prostate gland, thus mimicking the sonographic appearance of early prostatic cancer. Transrectal sonograms in a large series of patients with biopsy-proved clinical stage B prostatic cancer were retrospectively reviewed to determine the pathologic correlate to benign hypoechoic peripheral zone lesions. Transrectal sonograms demonstrated hypoechoic lesions that did not represent cancer in 25 of 160 patients examined. All lesions were contralateral to the carcinoma. Pathologic correlation was found in 24 of the 25 lesions. The results of this study show that contralateral hypoechoic lesions in patients with pathologically proved prostatic cancer do not necessarily imply bilateral tumor involvement; they accounted for benign lesions that mimicked the sonographic appearance of malignant tumors and thus produced a false-positive rate for cancer in the contralateral lobe of 16% of patients (25 of 160) with clinical stage B cancer. 
Comparison of efficacy of automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator in patients older and younger than 65 years of age. PURPOSE: The efficacy of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) was compared in elderly patients and younger patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Clinical characteristics, surgical complications, and long-term survival rates were compared between the two age groups. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted of 54 elderly patients (greater than 65 years) and 79 younger patients (less than 65 years) who had had AICDs implanted for recurrent symptomatic ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation. RESULTS: In 85% of elderly patients and 78% of younger patients, coronary artery disease was the underlying disease (NS). The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 31.4 +/- 14.3% in the elderly patients and 35.7 +/- 17.6% in the younger patients (NS). Concomitant myocardial revascularization was performed in 37% of elderly patients and 29% of younger patients (NS); however, only 4% of elderly patients had concomitant left ventricular resection or cryoablation, compared with 15% of younger patients (p less than 0.001). Two patients in each age group died perioperatively (4% versus 3%, NS), and no significant difference in surgical morbidity or length of hospital stay following AICD implantation was noted between the age groups. In conjunction with AICD, elderly patients more commonly received antiarrhythmic drugs, with 54% of elderly patients taking amiodarone at the time of hospital discharge compared with 29% of the younger patients (p less than 0.008). In contrast, beta-blockers were more commonly used in younger patients (16% versus 2%, p less than 0.03). At a mean follow-up of 25 months, 11 (20%) elderly patients and 16 (20%) younger patients had died. Six deaths in elderly patients and five deaths in younger patients were classified as arrhythmic deaths (NS); however, only one younger patient and three elderly patients died suddenly (NS). Calculated survival curves demonstrated similar survival rates in the two age groups with approximately 90%, 87%, and 80% of the patients alive at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Theoretic survival curves calculated from appropriate AICD shocks demonstrated significantly lower survival compared with actual survival. CONCLUSION: It is concluded that AICD is a very effective treatment for life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and this benefit applies to elderly patients as well as younger patients. 
High incidence of antibodies to hepatitis C virus in alcoholic cirrhosis: fact or fiction? An enzyme immunoassay (Ortho-HCV ELISA) for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus was used to test serum samples from 39 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and 34 patients with alcoholic hepatitis or fatty liver. The frequency of a positive result in the cirrhotics was significantly higher than in the alcoholics without cirrhosis (38.5% vs 8.8%, P less than 0.01). However, the positive results in the cirrhotics were associated with high gammaglobulin concentrations, and optical density values in the assay correlated closely with serum globulin (r = 0.73, P less than 0.01). The findings suggest that serum from patients with alcoholic cirrhosis may contain a component that give false-positive results in the assay. 
Paraesophageal hernia causing colonic obstruction. In a paraesophageal hernia, the esophagogastric junction remains below the hiatus while portions of the fundus or other parts of the stomach herniate in front and to the left of the esophagogastric junction through the hiatus into the thorax. We describe an unusual presentation of a paraesophageal hernia, in which herniation of the splenic flexure of the colon led to colonic obstruction. 
Psychophysiological parameters of migraine and muscle-contraction headaches. Previous headache studies have been unable to verify the presumed presence of headache. Attempting to correct this design fault, the present study assessed four psychophysiological measures (frontalis EMG, temporal BVP, temporal and finger skin temperature) and salient subjective measures in 13 migraineurs, eight muscle-contraction headache sufferers, and 13 age-matched normals. All subjects submitted to two 30-minute sessions of quiet monitoring, and for the headache subjects, one of the sessions was headache active. A bogus, but convincing preliminary "assessment" revealed insufficient headache activity in the headache active session, forcing subjects to reschedule that session in the future when a strong headache was present. A parallel manipulation was employed with the normal subjects. A MANOVA failed to discriminate within- or between-group differences on the psychophysiological measures. Self-reported pain was uncorrelated with the psychophysiological indices. These results cast further doubt on the validity of the psychophysiological measures employed in this study, the same ones routinely endorsed by headache researchers and therapists. We discuss problems of recruitment, compliance, and attrition in basic headache research. 
Effects of dietary calcium on blood pressure, vascular reactivity and vascular smooth muscle calcium efflux rate in Zucker rats. Previous data from this laboratory indicate that hypertension in insulin resistant Zucker obese rats is accompanied by an impairment in vascular smooth muscle Ca2+ efflux. Since insulin resistant states are also generally salt-sensitive and dietary Ca2+ reduces blood pressure in some salt-sensitive states, we evaluated the effects of dietary Ca2+ on blood pressure and vascular reactivity and examined whether these effects are due to increased vascular smooth muscle Ca2+ efflux. We assigned 16 obese and 16 lean rats to a normal (0.5%) or high (1.5%) Ca2+ diet for 28 days, following which intraarterial blood pressure and in vitro vascular smooth muscle 45Ca efflux and vascular reactivity responses to phenylephrine and serotonin were measured. Blood pressure was elevated in the obese rats on both diets (P less than 0.2), and the high calcium diet lowered both systolic and diastolic pressure in both the lean and obese rats (P less than 0.5). Vascular reactivity was higher in the obese rats (P less than 0.2), but dietary Ca2+ exerted opposite effects on vascular reactivity to the agonists. High Ca2+ reduced sensitivity to serotonin in the obese rats by 54% (P less than .05) without affecting sensitivity in the lean rats. In contrast, the high Ca2+ diet increased sensitivity to phenylephrine by 31% in both groups (P less than .01). 45Ca efflux was lower in the obese rats compared to the lean rats (P less than .05), and the high Ca2+ diet increased this rate by 23% in the lean, but not the obese, rats (P less than .05). 
Using anticoagulants safely. Guidelines for therapeutic and prophylactic regimens [published erratum appears in Postgrad Med 1991 Sep 1;90(3):48] Heparin and warfarin sodium (Coumadin, Panwarfin, Sofarin) are used most often to treat acute and recurrent venous thromboembolic disease, arterial disease, valvular heart disease, and atrial fibrillation. These agents along with dextran, pneumatic compression devices, and gradient stockings are also used to prevent deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients at high risk (eg, those with venous stasis, lower limb or spinal cord trauma, clotting abnormalities). Anticoagulation therapy is monitored by maintaining the activated partial thromboplastin time and the prothrombin time in the therapeutic range. 
Clonal immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in the infarcted lymph node syndrome. The authors report a case of complete lymph node infarction in which a specific etiology could not be determined by morphologic or immunophenotypic studies; however, clonal rearrangement of the immunoglobulin gene was demonstrated by Southern blot hybridization of DNA extracted from the necrotic tissue. A subsequent lymph node biopsy later was diagnosed as malignant lymphoma, using morphologic, immunophenotypic and genotypic criteria. Identical clonally rearranged bands were present in DNA from both the infarcted nodal and the subsequent tissue biopsies. In the setting of lymph node necrosis, gene rearrangement studies may provide diagnostic information concerning clonality, even if morphologic and immunophenotypic studies are indeterminate for a lymphoproliferative process. 
Cerebral structure on magnetic resonance imaging in language- and learning-impaired children. Using magnetic resonance imaging 20 language- and learning-impaired children were compared with 12 normal control subjects. Gross brain structure was remarkably normal in the language- and learning-impaired group. Semiautomated morphometry was used to measure hemispheric volumes and cerebral asymmetries in six cerebral regions. The volume of the left posterior perisylvian region was significantly reduced in language- and learning-impaired children. Asymmetries in inferoanterior and superoposterior cerebral regions were also significantly different in this group. Results of descriptive group comparisons of estimated volumes of other cerebral gray-matter structures raise the possibility that some language- and learning-impaired children may have additional volume reductions in cortical and subcortical structures. The results suggest that hemispheric specialization of function may be anomalous in this population. 
Intraovarian abscess treated with laparoscopic aspiration and povidone-iodine lavage. A case report. Intraovarian abscess is an unusual form of pelvic inflammatory disease usually managed with laparotomy. A patient with prolonged morbidity from an intraovarian abscess following pelvic inflammatory disease associated with an intrauterine contraceptive device was managed with laparoscopically guided needle aspiration of the abscess and povidone-iodine lavage. Laparoscopy should play a greater role in the management of pelvic inflammatory disease. 
Hemifacial spasm. Occurrence in multiple sclerosis. We present six patients with hemifacial spasm and multiple sclerosis. To our knowledge, this association has not been described previously in the North American literature. Magnetic resonance imaging was obtained in all the patients and plaques consistent with multiple sclerosis were identified. In two patients the plaques were seen in the area of the facial nucleus on the involved side. We suggest that hemifacial spasm can be a manifestation of multiple sclerosis. These cases illustrate the utility of magnetic resonance imaging in the investigation of hemifacial spasm. Our findings also support a central (nuclear) origin in multiple sclerosis associated with hemifacial spasm. 
Venous thromboembolism after brain tumor surgery: a retrospective review. We retrospectively reviewed the incidence rate of clinical postoperative deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in 1703 patients undergoing initial craniotomy for meningioma, glioma, or cerebral metastasis. The incidence rate of clinical thromboembolic complications was 1.59% for all tumor groups within the first 4 weeks of surgery. Patients undergoing surgery for meningiomas had a statistically significant increased risk of thromboembolism despite fewer overall perioperative risk factors, when compared with the other tumor groups. The tumor-specific incidence rates of deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism for meningioma, glioma, and metastasis were 3.09%, 0.97%, and 1.03%, respectively. Whether this difference was a result of increased surgical time or an inherent property of meningiomas could not be ascertained. 
Elevated cerebrospinal fluid pressures in patients with cryptococcal meningitis and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Increased intracranial pressure has been a noteworthy problem in some of our patients with cryptococcal meningitis and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and this appears to be a feature observed in patients with cryptococcal meningitis reported in the literature. Whereas most attention of clinicians is presently focused on optimizing the antifungal regimen, so as to improve on high failure rates in cryptococcal meningitis in AIDS, little attention has been paid to the problem of intracranial hypertension. We argue that visual loss and some of the cases of death early after the onset of chemotherapy may be related to high cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure, regardless of antifungal therapy. The possible pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed, and we postulate that the mechanism is reduced CSF outflow possibly due to increased outflow resistance, not necessarily accompanied by prominent cerebral edema. Optimal therapy of this complication is not yet established, but some measures that may be helpful are ventricular shunting, frequent high-volume lumbar punctures, and possibly glucocorticoids. 
Barriers to cholesterol testing in a rural community. BACKGROUND. The purpose of this study was to investigate the factors that determine whether residents in a rural community have their cholesterol tested. METHODS. A population-based survey was conducted in 1987 as part of a community-oriented primary care project that sought to define and address the causes of and burden caused by increased cardiovascular disease in an economically depressed agricultural region of New York. All of the residents living in two towns in the region who were over 16 years of age and who lived in their homes year-round were surveyed. Demographic information was obtained from the participants, as well as information about previous cholesterol testing and their cardiovascular-risk knowledge and behaviors. The serum cholesterol of each participant was measured. RESULTS. Of the 557 households contacted, 508 (91%) households participated. A total of 1063 persons over 16 years of age were surveyed, and 973 (92%) were screened for cholesterol. Overall, 24% reported prior cholesterol testing. Logistic regression analysis identified several independent factors that were associated with a reduced likelihood of ever having had a cholesterol test. These factors included: (1) age under 45 years, (2) having less than 12 years of education, (3) having an income of less than $10,000, (4) not having health insurance, (5) not having visited a physician within the previous year, and (6) practicing three or more high-risk cardiovascular behaviors. The participants' cardiovascular knowledge made no independent contribution to having had their cholesterol levels tested. CONCLUSIONS. Many of the factors that prevent cholesterol testing are socially determined. The results of this study suggest that financial and social barriers are two of the major obstacles to residents of rural communities having their cholesterol levels tested. 
Lymphocytic gastritis in nonulcer dyspepsia. The prevalence of lymphocytic gastritis, a specific form of chronic gastritis characterized by infiltration of gastric superficial epithelium with T lymphocytes, has been established in nonulcer dyspepsia. Among a population sample of 586 patients at risk for gastric carcinoma, 0.83% of patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and 1.63% of patients with chronic active gastritis showed lymphocytic gastritis. Among routine gastric biopsies from 5130 patients, only five cases met histological and immunohistochemical criteria of lymphocytic gastritis. 
Sleep apnea in infants who succumb to the sudden infant death syndrome. Previous studies have shown the frequency of respiratory pauses to be altered in groups of infants at risk for the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). In this study, we assess the frequency of apneic pauses during quiet sleep and rapid eye movement sleep in control infants and infants who subsequently died of SIDS. Sleep states were identified in 12-hour physiological recordings of SIDS victims and matched control infants, and the number of respiratory pauses from 4 to 30 seconds in duration was computed for quiet sleep and rapid eye movement sleep. SIDS victims 40 to 65 days of age showed significantly fewer apneic pauses than did age-matched control infants across the two sleep states. Fewer short respiratory pauses accounted for most of the reduction in number of apneic events in the SIDS victims during both sleep states. During the first month of life, SIDS victims did not differ significantly from control neonates on this measure. The finding that this respiratory difference exists during the second month of life, just before the period of maximal risk for SIDS, but not earlier, may have implications for the etiology of SIDS deaths. 
Myeloablative therapy and unpurged autologous bone marrow transplantation for poor-prognosis neuroblastoma: report of 34 cases. From October 1984 to November 1987, 34 patients aged from 1 year 1 month to 7 years 7 months with resistant or relapsed neuroblastoma (NB) (group 1, 10 patients), unselected disseminated NB (group 2, 14 patients), or selected disseminated NB (group 3, 10 patients) received myeloablative therapy (MAT) followed by unpurged autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) at the end of an intensive protocol, which included high-dose chemotherapy and surgery to the primary tumor. Median time from diagnosis to MAT and ABMT was 6 months (5 months from last relapse to MAT and ABMT in the relapsed patients). The MAT regimen included vincristine, fractionated total body irradiation (TBI), and melphalan. Seventeen patients were grafted in complete remission (CR), five in very good partial remission (VGPR), 10 in partial remission (PR), and two in progressive disease (PD). The acute toxic death rate was 2.9%. The overall progression-free survival was 29%. The median progression-free survival was 20 months for the 17 patients grafted in CR, 6 months for the five patients grafted in VGPR, and 12 months for the 10 patients grafted in PR. 
Variation of initial serum bilirubin rise in newborn infants with type of illness. Hyperbilirubinaemia in newborn infants is generally regarded as a problem, and bilirubin itself as toxic metabolic waste, but the high frequency in newborn infants suggests that the excess of neonatal bilirubin may have a positive function. To investigate the hypothesis that bilirubin has a role as a free-radical scavenger, the rate of rise in serum bilirubin in the first few days of life was measured in 44 infants with five illnesses thought to enhance free-radical production and in 58 control infants. The infants were selected from 2700 consecutive births by exclusion of those with factors known to affect bilirubin metabolism, including enteral feeding. The control infants were those who seemed to be ill and received treatment, including restriction of enteral feeds, but in whom no illness, or disorders not related to free-radical production, were found. The mean serum bilirubin rise was significantly lower in the combined illness group than in the control group (36.1 [95% Cl 26.9-45.3] vs 66.7 [55.9-77.5] mumol.l-1.day-1; p less than 0.0001). In subgroup analyses the mean rises in infants with circulatory failure, neonatal depression/asphyxia, aspiration syndromes, and proven sepsis were significantly lower than in controls matched for gestational age and birthweight, but rises in infants with respiratory distress and their matched controls did not differ. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that bilirubin is consumed in vivo as an antioxidant. Such consumption may operate in vivo in addition to the standard pathways for bilirubin metabolism (production, isomerisation, and excretion). 
Stereopsis after unilateral anterior temporal lobectomy. Dissociation between local and global measures. In man, an impairment in stereopsis may occur following damage outside the occipital lobes. If local and global stereopsis can be dissociated, this may imply that different mechanisms mediate these functions. We tested 44 patients with unilateral anterior temporal lobe excisions and 23 normal control subjects on two tasks. In the local stereopsis task, subjects indicated which of two pins varying in disparity between 4 and 512 s of arc was closer. Results showed no threshold impairment in any group. In the global stereopsis task, random-dot stereograms varying in binocular correlation were presented in random order, and subjects indicated if the squares perceived in depth were in front of or behind the screen. At binocular correlations between 50% and 70%, left and right temporal lobectomy resulted in a deficit, which was more marked following right-sided excisions. These results are concordant with earlier work (Ptito and Zatorre, 1988), and with other evidence of a right hemisphere superiority in treating binocular depth information. Moreover, the fact that global stereopsis is impaired in the presence of intact local stereopsis suggests that closely related but not identical mechanisms are involved, and fits the notion that there is a hierarchical organization of the visual pathways originating in the striate cortex leading into temporal cortex. Global stereopsis would thus be mediated in temporal lobe areas that receive information about local disparities from more posterior regions. 
A randomized controlled trial of a 12-month course of recombinant human interferon-alpha in chronic delta (type D) hepatitis: a multicenter Italian study. To determine whether long-term therapy with recombinant interferon-alpha can improve the course of chronic delta hepatitis, 61 Italian patients with this disease were randomly assigned to receive either interferon-alpha-2b three times a week (5 MU/m2 for 4 mo and then 3 MU/m2 for another 8 mo) or no treatment. At the end of the 12-mo study, all patients were followed-up for 12 additional months. Normalization or decrease of more than 50% from baseline of serum ALT levels occurred in 42% of treated patients the fourth month of therapy, 26% the twelfth month and 3% the twenty-fourth month vs. 7%, 7% and 0%, respectively, in the control group. However, relapses occurred in 7 of 8 (87.5%) responders 1 to 10 mo (mean = 3.5 mo) after cessation of therapy. Liver biopsies were carried out at baseline and during the twelfth month of treatment. Histological improvement, mostly caused by decrease of portal inflammation, was observed in 57% of treated and 36% of untreated patients. Measures of antiviral activity (serum hepatitis delta virus RNA and intrahepatic hepatitis delta antigen) showed similar levels in treated and control patients. In treated patients the percentage of patients who were negative for HDV RNA never exceeded that of baseline. Although interferon-alpha in the dosage given in this study had no antiviral effect on patients with chronic hepatitis D, it reduced hepatic inflammation as measured by ALT levels. Whether a longer duration or reinstitution of interferon-alpha therapy would achieve long-term control of ALT levels and prevent chronic liver damage is not known. 
Beriberi heart disease in a schizophrenic with an unusual diet. A 37-year-old male presented with peripheral edema of sudden onset. Other signs of heart failure were absent. Subsequent evaluation revealed that the patient was a schizophrenic whose diet consisted almost entirely of carbohydrates. A clinical diagnosis of beriberi heart disease was made and the patient improved dramatically within several days of thiamine supplementation. The presentation of beriberi heart disease in developed countries is discussed. Emphasis is placed on food faddists and psychiatric patients in whom clinical findings may be subtle or absent. 
Microscopic activity in ulcerative colitis: what does it mean? To determine the prognostic importance of microscopic rectal inflammation we followed up 82 patients (aged 21 to 78 years, 44 men) with chronic quiescent ulcerative colitis over 12 months. At trial entry each patient underwent a rectal biopsy and sections were graded independently by two histopathologists. A chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate of varying severity was present in all biopsy specimens, and 58% had crypt architectural irregularities. In addition, 32% had evidence of acute inflammatory activity: 28% acute inflammatory cell infiltrate, 11% crypt abscesses, and 22% mucin depletion. Agreement between the two histopathologists for the presence of each of these features was 94% (90-98%). During the 12 month follow up 27 patients (33%) relapsed after a mean interval of 18 weeks (range 3-44 weeks). Relapse rates were unrelated to duration or extent of disease or to the type of maintenance drug treatment. In patients with an acute inflammatory cell infiltrate 52% relapsed, whereas in the absence of such an infiltrate only 25% relapsed (p = 0.02). Similarly, relapse rates were higher in the presence of crypt abscesses (78% v 27%, p less than 0.005), mucin depletion (56% v p less than 0.02), and breaches in the surface epithelium (75% v 31%, p = 0.1). The presence of a chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate or crypt architectural irregularities, however, bore no relation to the frequency of colitis relapse. 
The incidence and relationship of cervical spine anomalies in patients with cleft lip and/or palate. The relationship, incidence, and distribution of cervical spine anomalies were assessed in 468 patients with cleft lip and/or palate. The patients were placed into four groups: lip and/or alveolar; complete unilateral or bilateral; isolated palatal; and soft palate or submucous clefts. Cervical anomalies were observed in 22% of the cleft patients and in 7% of the noncleft group. Patients with soft palate and submucous clefts had the highest incidence of vertebral anomalies (45%), whereas patients with cleft lip and/or alveolus had an incidence similar to the noncleft group. Patients with complete unilateral and bilateral clefts also had a higher incidence (15.6% to 19.0%) of anomalies than the noncleft group. Cervical anomalies occurred primarily in the occipital-C1-C2 region. The possible implications of these findings are discussed. 
The use of direct mail to increase clinician knowledge: an intervention study. A probability sample of American general practitioner dentists, 40 years of age or older, in solo private practice, was the target of two direct mail interventions offered at two different times, to test whether knowledge regarding prophylaxis of patients at risk for infective endocarditis could be improved. Tests of knowledge were responses in a mail questionnaire to clinical vignettes, designed to elicit the content of antibiotic regimens used for patients at risk. The research design enabled detection of (1) the effect of the interventions; (2) the differences in their effect; (3) the attenuation of their effect; and (4) the effect of time. Where baseline knowledge was low, it was improved and did not rapidly disappear. Both mail interventions were equally effective, in most instances, and there was no attenuation of the interventions' effect and no effect of time on the control groups' knowledge over a 4 1/2 month period. The results suggest that it is possible to improve clinicians' knowledge of expert recommendations through direct mail intervention. 
Budd-Chiari syndrome in association with Behcet's disease. Budd-Chiari syndrome developed in 3 patients with preexisting Behcet's disease. Benign intracranial hypertension was the chief presenting complaint in one patient, who later suffered extensive inferior vena caval and hepatic vein thrombosis, with manifestations of Budd-Chiari syndrome. She did not respond to treatment and subsequently died of hepatic coma. In the other 2 patients, Budd-Chiari syndrome was confirmed by liver biopsy. Both patients made a good recovery and remain well at the time of this report. 
Biplane transesophageal echocardiography: clinical applications of the long-axis plane. Tomography of the heart and great vessels is limited during conventional transesophageal echocardiography by the inability to rotate the transducer at the end of the transesophageal echocardiographic endoscope. A biplane transesophageal echocardiographic probe has been developed recently with a second transducer capable of long-axis imaging that yields long-axis views in addition to the familiar short-axis views. We describe our experience with 37 patients with a variety of cardiovascular diseases. In 17 patients new diagnostic information was obtained, although management was not changed. Long-axis scanning was particularly useful in the assessment of diseases of the thoracic aorta, valvular morphology and regurgitation, and congenital heart disease. Important limitations of the biplane imaging system include reduced image quality and a continued inability to rotate the transducer to obtain any desired plane of imaging. Nonetheless, biplane imaging enhances the versatility of transesophageal echocardiography and improves three-dimensional conceptualization of cardiac disease. 
Arachnoid cyst of the cerebellopontine angle manifesting as contralateral trigeminal neuralgia: case report. A case of an arachnoid cyst in the cerebellopontine angle manifesting as contralateral trigeminal neuralgia is presented. Decompression and excision of the lesion resulted in total relief of symptoms. The possible causes of contralateral trigeminal neuralgia are briefly reviewed, and the surgical treatment of this entity is discussed. 
Alpha 2-macroglobulin-kallikrein complexes detect contact system activation in hereditary angioedema and human sepsis. Activation of the contact system has been documented in severe sepsis and hereditary angioedema, but a sensitive, specific, and quantitative assay for assessing the degree of involvement of this proteolytic enzyme cascade is not yet available. We have developed a quantitative sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the alpha 2-macroglobulin-kallikrein (alpha 2M-Kal) complex using an F(ab')2 derivative of a monospecific polyclonal antibody against alpha 2 M as the capture antibody and a unique murine monoclonal antibody, 13G11, against the heavy chain of kallikrein as the detector antibody. The assay does not detect complexes in normal plasma but reacts with complexes generated by activating normal plasma with dextran sulfate at 4 degrees C in a range of 5 to 375 nmol/L. A close correlation of the ELISA with an amidolytic assay for alpha 2M-Kal was documented. Patients with sepsis syndrome but negative bacterial blood cultures did not show elevated plasma complexes, whereas a majority of those with positive blood cultures did show modest elevation and a single patient with septic shock showed a very high level of alpha 2M-Kal complex. Similarly, a patient with classic hereditary angioedema (HAE) showed increased concentration of complexes on three separate occasions during attacks but normal levels between attacks. Two other HAE patients did not show elevated levels at quiescent periods. The ELISA for alpha 2M-Kal appears to be sensitive, specific, and quantitative, and it can be used to reflect the degree of contact system activation in human sepsis and in HAE attacks. 
Progressive loss of speech output and orofacial dyspraxia associated with frontal lobe hypometabolism. Three patients are described with slowly progressive loss of speech and dysarthria associated with orofacial dyspraxia, initially with intact written language, who subsequently developed more widespread cognitive abnormalities. Positron emission tomography (PET) revealed bifrontal hypometabolism in all of the patients, most marked in the inferior and lateral portions of both frontal lobes, with some extension into the parietal and temporal cortices in one case. These patients may represent a further example of focal progressive cortical degeneration. 
Mucocutaneous disease in pediatric human immunodeficiency virus infection. Children with HIV infection may develop a wide variety of infectious and inflammatory diseases of the skin. These disorders are often more severe and more difficult to treat than in the healthy child. In some cases, disorders of the skin or mucous membranes may provide an early clue to the presence of pediatric HIV infection. 
Overwhelming necrotizing tracheobronchitis due to inadequate humidification during high-frequency jet ventilation. Necrotizing tracheobronchitis (NT) associated with conventional mechanical ventilation or high-frequency jet ventilation (HFJV) is a lesion reported most often in neonates. In most cases, a specific cause is not identified. We describe a case of NT in an adult that occurred during HFJV and was attributable to inadequate humidification. 
Helicobacter pylori-negative duodenal ulcer. PURPOSE PATIENTS AND METHODS: Helicobacter pylori (HP) is present in more than 90% of duodenal ulcers (DUs). To investigate the pathophysiology in those patients with DU who are HP-negative compared with those who are HP-positive, we interviewed consecutive patients prior to endoscopy regarding factors often associated with ulcer disease. At esophagogastroduodenoscopy, antral biopsy specimens were obtained for urease test, culture, and Warthin Starry staining for HP in all patients with DU who did not have active bleeding. RESULTS: Compared with HP-positive patients who had DU, HP-negative patients with DU were more likely to be aspirin users and less likely to have had prior ulcers. HP-positive patients with DU had more severe antral inflammation than HP-negative patients. Whites were more likely to be HP-negative than blacks. HP-negative patients with DU most commonly presented with bleeding, whereas HP-positive patients with DU presented with pain. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest a different mechanism for DUs in patients who are HP-positive versus those who are HP-negative, and this difference might have a bearing on treatment. The absence of HP should lead to a more thorough search for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug/aspirin use, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, and other potential causes of DUs. 
Increased MR signal intensity due to cervical myelopathy. Analysis of 29 surgical cases. The cases of 29 patients with cervical myelopathy, who had been treated by anterior spine fusion, were reviewed. The relationship between pre- and postoperative magnetic resonance (MR) images was investigated with special reference to increased signal intensity in the spinal cord on the T2-weighted images and the relevance of this finding to clinical conditions. Preoperatively, there were areas of increased signal intensity in 12 patients whereas there were no areas of increased signal intensity in the other 17. The lesions were not clearly demonstrated on T1-weighted images. The pre- and postoperative clinical condition of the patients whose preoperative MR images showed areas of increased signal intensity in the spinal cord on T2-weighted images was worse than that of the patients who did not have areas of increased signal intensity. Of the 12 patients with regions of increased signal intensity preoperatively, five showed decreased signal intensity postoperatively compared to the preoperative levels and seven had no change. The postoperative recovery of the five patients who showed decreased signal intensity postoperatively was better than that of the seven patients who exhibited no change. The areas of increased MR signal in the spinal cord might be due to edema, cord gliosis, demyelination, or microcavities. 
Intraosseous vascular malformations of the orbit. Intraosseous vascular malformations are rare benign tumors involving the bones of the orbit. The diagnosis should be considered when a patient presents with an enlarging mass fixed to bone in the upper face, and the characteristic x-ray appearance should be looked for on plain films. Treatment is local excision of the bone containing the tumor and immediate reconstruction with autogenous bone. 
Impedance plethysmography: a new method for continuous muscle perfusion monitoring. Vigilant postoperative monitoring of the buried muscle flap is critical after free transfer because early diagnosis of vascular insufficiency is essential to allow prompt correction. We have identified a monitoring method utilizing needle electrodes and impedance plethysmography that gives a beat-to-beat representation of muscular perfusion. In 25 New Zealand White rabbits the gastrocnemius muscle was isolated on its vascular pedicle, and two intramuscular needle electrodes were placed. The instantaneous impedance changes of the muscle (corresponding to the pulsatile volume changes of perfusion) were measured and recorded. Using this representation of perfusion, an independent judge was able to correctly diagnose muscular ischemia 100 percent of the time (n = 25). Further, the judge was able to correctly distinguish the ischemia as arterial (n = 10) or venous (n = 10) in origin 100 percent of the time. Additionally, we monitored muscle perfusion transcutaneously in five free muscle flaps and demonstrated a reliable impedance signal that correlated with perfusion. 
Importance of antithrombin therapy during coronary angioplasty. Angioplasty procedures with balloons, cutters or lasers all may greatly enlarge the arterial lumen, but luminal diameter may decrease because of mural thrombus in 70% to 80%, smooth muscle proliferation, vasoconstriction or recoil. Thrombin binds to arterial wall matrix and fibrin within a thrombus. Heparin dose-dependently decreases platelet and thrombus deposition but does not eliminate these even at high doses. Specific thrombin inhibition started before angioplasty experimentally prevents mural thrombus and limits platelet deposition to a single layer or less. Experimentally, anticoagulant and antifibrin effects occur at lower antithrombin blood levels and lower activated partial thromboplastin times (1.7 times control). Because platelets are so sensitive to thrombin, the higher level of thrombin inhibition required may occur at a specific level (activated partial thromboplastin time greater than or equal to 2 times control); this is not defined in humans. The duration of therapy is not defined in animals or humans. Thrombus and thrombin may be related to cellular proliferation. 
A pathophysiological interpretation of unresponsiveness to spironolactone in a stepped-care approach to the diuretic treatment of ascites in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients. It has been hypothesized that the magnitude of proximal sodium reabsorption affects the response to aldosterone antagonists in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients with ascites. To verify this hypothesis, we evaluated intrarenal sodium handling by lithium clearance in 51 nonazotemic ascitic cirrhotic patients and in 23 controls who were maintained on the same low-sodium diet (80 mmol/day). Seven of 51 cirrhotic patients underwent spontaneous diuresis, whereas 44 required diuretic treatment. Treatment was started with spironolactone at a dose of 150 mg once daily. The dose was increased to 300 mg and then to 500 mg once daily if no response ensued. Cirrhotic patients who did not experience ascites mobilization with 500 mg spironolactone were then treated with a combined diuretic regimen that included spironolactone at a fixed dose (500 mg once daily) and furosemide at an initial dose of 50 mg once daily. The dose was increased to 100, 150 and 200 mg once daily if no response was noticed. Response to diuretic treatment was defined as body weight loss greater than 700 gm every 3 days until ascites became clinically undetectable. Nonresponders (43%) to spironolactone showed lower sodium fractional excretion (0.34% +/- 0.28% vs. 0.80% +/- 0.50%; p less than 0.001) because of a lower fractional sodium delivery to the distal tubule (18.2% +/- 5.8% vs. 23.4% +/- 7.2%; p less than 0.025) than responders. 
Correction of non-24-hour sleep/wake cycle by melatonin in a blind retarded boy. A 9-year-old, blind boy with severe mental retardation with a chronic sleep/wake disturbance had a circadian rhythm of 24.75 hours and an internal desynchronization of the endogenous rhythms. Treatment with oral melatonin given at 6 PM induced a regular sleep/wake pattern. Melatonin, in this patient, convincingly entrained the endogenous rhythm to the appropriate chronological 24-hour day. 
Symptomatic hyponatraemia due to inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion following minor surgery. A rare case of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion occurring after minor surgery is presented. A ten-year-old, previously healthy boy underwent general anaesthesia for detorsion and right orchiopexy. Throughout the operations, which lasted for one hour, he received 120 ml Ringer's lactate solution. The immediate postoperative period was uneventful. Twenty-two hours postoperatively he was found unconscious with generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Simultaneously obtained serum sodium concentration (121 mEq.L-1) serum osmolarity (265 mEq.L-1), urine sodium concentration (87 mEq.L-1) and urine osmolarity (525 mEq.L-1) suggested inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion which was confirmed by an elevated serum arginine-vasopressin (AVP) level of 14.5 pcg.ml-1 (normal 1-5 pcg.ml-1) measured by radioimmune assay. He was treated with a single iv dose of 30 mg furosemide and fluid restriction, which produced a gradual increase of his serum sodium concentration to normal within two days. He was well during the remainder of his hospitalization. 
Epidemiology of colonic symptoms and the irritable bowel syndrome. Functional gastrointestinal disease is believed to be very common, but reports of its prevalence have not usually evaluated random community samples, and validated questionnaires have not been used to elicit symptoms. The prevalence of specific colonic symptoms and the irritable bowel syndrome among representative middle-aged whites was determined from a defined population, and the impact of these symptoms on presentation for medical care was measured. An age- and sex-stratified random sample of 1021 residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, aged 30-64 years, was obtained. All subjects were mailed a valid self-report questionnaire that identified gastrointestinal symptoms and functional gastrointestinal disorders. The response rate was 82% (n = 835). The age- and sex-adjusted prevalence of abdominal pain (more than six times in the prior year) was 26.2 per 100 (95% confidence interval, 23.1-29.2). The prevalence of chronic constipation (hard stools and straining and/or less than 3 stools per week greater than 25% of the time) was 17.4 (95% confidence interval, 14.8-20.0), whereas the prevalence of chronic diarrhea (loose watery stools, and/or greater than 3 stools per day greater than 25% of the time) was 17.9 (95% confidence interval, 15.3-20.5). The prevalence of abdominal pain and disturbed defecation was similar in women and men, except that infrequent defecation and straining at stool were more common in women. Using the Manning symptom criteria to identify irritable bowel syndrome (greater than or equal to 2 of 6 symptoms in those with abdominal pain more than six times in the prior year), the prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome was 17.0 per 100 (95% confidence interval, 14.4-19.6). Overall, 71 persons (9%) reported visiting a physician for abdominal pain or disturbed defecation in the prior year; a subset of variables related to pain severity were the best predictors of health care seeking after adjustment for age and gender. However, these accounted for only 22% of the log likelihood. In conclusion, more than one third of an unselected middle-aged population reported chronic abdominal pain or disturbed defecation, and more than one in six had symptoms compatible with the irritable bowel syndrome. Only a minority had presented for medical evaluation; moreover, the characteristics of the abdominal complaints did not explain the seeking of health care in most cases. 
Hypoprothrombinemia and hemorrhage in a surgical patient treated with cefotetan. For 4 days before surgical repair of a diverticulitic colovesical fistula and for 6 days after, a 63-year-old man was treated with 2 g of intravenous cefotetan disodium every 12 hours for associated urosepsis with bacteremia. Postoperatively, the patient followed a diet of intravenous nutrition only. Uneventful convalescence was interrupted by signs of sudden major blood loss, accompanied by prolonged prothrombin time. After stabilization with packed red blood cells, fresh plasma, crystalloids, and parenteral vitamin K, laparotomy revealed a huge intra-abdominal clot, which was evacuated. This case illustrates the risk of unexpected hypoprothrombinemia and hemorrhage in a cefotetan-treated surgical patient who demonstrated none of the usual comorbid conditions generally described in patients with antibiotic-induced hypoprothrombinemia. Like cefamandole nafate, cefoperazone sodium, moxalactam disodium, and other cephalosporins containing the methylthiotetrazole side chain, cefotetan appears to pose an unusual risk of major bleeding. 
Sticks and stones may break my bones ... reasoning about illness causality and body functioning in children who have a chronic illness. Children's concepts about illness causality and bodily functioning change in a predictable way with advancing age. Differences in the understanding of these concepts in healthy children vs children with a chronic illness have not been clearly delineated. This study included 49 children with a seizure disorder, 47 children with an orthopaedic condition, and 96 healthy children, all with normal intelligence and ranging in age from 5 to 16 years. It demonstrates systematic differences in children's general reasoning skills and in their understanding of concepts about illness causality and bodily functioning, as a function of their age and experience of illness. At all ages, children who had a condition with orthopaedic involvement reported less sophisticated general reasoning and concepts about illness than did healthy children; children with a seizure disorder reported similar general reasoning skills to those of healthy children, but considerably less sophisticated concepts about illness. Children's concepts about body functioning did not differ as a function of the presence of a chronic illness. When their different levels of general cognitive reasoning were statistically controlled, children with a chronic illness had somewhat more sophisticated concepts about bodily functioning than did healthy children. Differences in conceptual development among children with different types of illnesses lead to interesting speculations with regard to the effects of particular illness characteristics on children's cognitive development. 
Wolf blade plate ankle arthrodesis. Fifteen patients, each of whom had a Wolf blade plate ankle arthrodesis, were followed for a mean of 56 months. The mean age at the time of operation was 46.7 years. The preoperative diagnosis was posttraumatic arthritis in 16 cases and one each of degenerative arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and avascular necrosis of the talus. Eighteen of the 19 cases fused for a fusion rate of 94.7%. The average fusion position was 2.9 degrees of plantar flexion and 5 degrees of valgus. All patients whose ankle fused were satisfied with their results. The average Mazur postoperative score was 75 (range, 33-91). Five patients had delayed wound healing. The Wolf blade plate is a simple and easy method to fuse the ankle. Minimal dissection is required and a fusion rate of 95% is obtainable. 
Epiglottic laryngoplasty after hemilaryngectomy for glottic cancer. Epiglottic laryngoplasty is technically feasible as a one-stage procedure with excellent functional results. Although the Kambic-Sedlacek-Tucker (K-S-T) technique of glottic reconstruction offers early extubation with an adequate airway, a subsequent wide neoglottis may increase the chance of aspiration and a poor voice. To better restore the laryngeal functions of closure and phonation, we made some modifications on the original K-S-T technique as follows: (1) One of the lateral margins of the epiglottis with the aryepiglottic fold is sutured to the arytenoid region of the cricoid rather than a thyroid cartilage remnant. A neo-arytenoid is formed. (2) The other lateral margin of the epiglottis with the aryepiglottic fold is sutured to the cut edge of the false and true cord instead of a thyroid ala remnant. Therefore both margins of the epiglottis with the aryepiglottic folds are lowered as much as possible to the level of the glottis. A new pseudocord is formed. (3) A cartilage cut is made at the anterior aspect of the epiglottis, leaving its laryngeal surface of mucoperichondrial intact. A new anterior commissure with a sharp angle is shaped by this maneuver. Nineteen hemilaryngectomies with modified epiglottic laryngoplasty have been performed by members of the Department of Otolaryngology of Guangxi Medical College since 1984. Results in this series are fairly good and indicate that the modified epiglottic laryngoplasty is effective in enhancing functional results in terms of respiration, deglutition, and phonation. 
Selective chemical vestibulectomy: preliminary results with human application. The involved membranous labyrinth of patients with medically intractable Meniere's disease is being accessed by means of a fenestration of the bony horizontal semicircular canal in preparation for the application of a 125 or 250 mcg flake of solid streptomycin. Sensory information originating in the affected vestibular end organ is selectively blocked from reaching the central nervous system. This uniformly results in the rapid elimination of vertiginous symptoms, and at these calculated doses yields preservation of (or in some cases improvement in) preoperative cochlear thresholds. The rationale for this procedure, as detailed in earlier investigations of animals, will be briefly reviewed before highlighting our preliminary results in adult clinical trials. 
Acute twin-twin transfusion: a possible mechanism for brain-damaged survivors after intrauterine death of a monochorionic twin. Intrauterine death of one twin in monochorionic pregnancies is associated with increased mortality and morbidity for the survivor. This has been attributed to the consequences of intrauterine disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) initiated by the dead twin. We describe a case in which the fetal cerebral and renal lesions typically found in survivors occurred without any derangement in coagulation. Instead, acute twin-twin transfusion was suggested by the presence of severe anemia in the surviving fetus at delivery. We suggest that the lesions frequently found in the survivors are often due to acute hemodynamic and ischemic changes resulting from acute twin-twin transfusion at the time of intrauterine death, rather than to late-onset DIC. This hypothesis has an important implication for future management: Intervention must occur before intrauterine death if neurologic sequelae in the survivor are to be prevented. 
Priming by platelet-activating factor of endotoxin-induced lung injury and cardiovascular shock. Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a glycerophospholipid known for its unusual potent vasoactive and proinflammatory activities. The present study examined whether PAF might serve as a priming factor in endotoxin-induced tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) synthesis, cardiovascular shock, and lung injury in anesthetized rats. Intravenous infusion of PAF (1 pmol/kg/min for 60 minutes, n = 5) alone or endotoxin (0.1 micrograms/kg i.v. bolus, n = 5) failed to alter blood pressure, serum TNF alpha and thromboxane B2, platelet and leukocyte count, and hematocrit, nor was lung histology, myeloperoxidase activity, and water content changed. In contrast, the combined administration of PAF and endotoxin markedly elevated serum TNF alpha (1,359 +/- 362 pg/ml, n = 5, p less than 0.01) and thromboxane B2 (43 +/- 5 pg/100 microliters, n = 8, p less than 0.01) along with hypotension, hemoconcentration, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia. Most notably, the combined regimen caused neutrophil aggregation, adhesion, and accumulation into the lung parenchyma along with platelet-fibrin deposits in postcapillary venules, pulmonary edema, and increased lung myeloperoxidase activity. The role of PAF in this process was confirmed by 1) the prevention of the priming effect by pretreatment with the PAF antagonist BN 50739 (n = 5), and 2) the failure of lyso-PAF, the cardinal nonactive PAF-metabolite, to prime for endotoxin-induced production of TNF alpha (n = 4). These data suggest that PAF could serve as a key mediator in priming for endotoxin-induced tissue injury, especially the typical pulmonary pathophysiology of adult respiratory distress syndrome, a severe pathological outcome of septic shock, burns, and multiple organ injury. 
Alterations in proteoglycan synthesis common to healing wounds and tumors. Wound healing and tumor stroma generation share several important properties, including hyperpermeable blood vessels, extravasation of fibrinogen, and extravascular clotting. In both, the deposits of fibrin gel serve initially as provisional stroma and later are replaced by granulation tissue. Proteoglycans (PG) are also important constituents of the extracellular matrix, but their composition and role in healing wounds and tumor stroma generation are poorly understood. The authors used immunohistochemical and biochemical methods to investigate the dermatan sulfate proteoglycan (DSPG) and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) composition of healing skin wounds and solid tumors. By immunohistochemistry, the great majority of normal guinea pig and human dermis stained weakly for CSPG and strongly for decorin. In contrast, the granulation tissue of healing skin wounds and scars stained intensely for CSPG and weakly or not at all for decorin; however decorin staining was restored to normal intensity after digestion with chondroitin ABC lyase, suggesting that decorin antigenic sites had been masked by glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains. Like wounds, the stroma of several carcinomas (line 1 guinea pig, human breast, colon, basal cell, and squamous) stained strongly for CSPG and weakly or not at all for decorin, but decorin staining developed after chondroitin ABC lyase digestion. Thus healing wounds and tumor stroma express a common pattern of altered PG staining, adding another to the properties these pathologic entities share. Proteoglycans extracted from healing wounds after in situ labelling with [35S] Na sulfate contained more CSPG than normal dermis with significantly longer GAG chains. Granulation tissue also synthesized more DSPG than normal skin, with greater heterogeneity and longer GAG chains. These alterations in PG synthesis correlate with the cell proliferation, migration, and collagen synthesis that accompany wound healing and may provide clues to the mechanisms responsible for both wound healing and tumor stroma generation. 
Incidence of gallstones in liver cirrhosis. We conducted a longitudinal follow-up of 72 patients with liver cirrhosis (LC) in order to assess gallstone (GS) incidence. The period of survey was 24.5 +/- 12.2 months. Patients were divided into two groups: group I--26 patients with ascites at the start or appearing during follow-up, and Group II--46 patients with compensated LC (no ascites) throughout the survey. During follow-up, 12 of 72 (16.6%) patients developed GS. The global cumulative incidence of GS was 5.5 cases/100 people/year. Age and sex had no influence on the incidence of GS in LC; neither had etiology or cirrhosis. On the contrary, the study revealed a significant increase in the incidence of GS in decompensated cirrhosis. In group I patients, GS appeared more frequently (34.6%) than in group II patients (6.5%) (chi 2 9.479; p less than 0.002). The cumulative incidence of GS was five times higher in decompensated versus compensated LC. 
Mycosis fungoides: cutaneous T-cell lymphoma [published erratum appears in Am Fam Physician 1991 Jun;43(6):1954] Most patients with mycosis fungoides are between 40 and 60 years of age. The disease has three clinical stages: (1) the premycotic, or patch, stage, consisting of macular, scaling, faint pink to red pruritic patches, usually on unexposed surfaces; (2) the mycotic, or plaque, stage, consisting of reddish, purple-brown plaques, often annular in shape and symmetric in distribution, and (3) the tumor stage, consisting of red-brown to violaceous, dome-shaped, firm tumors with a predilection for the face and body folds. The Sezary syndrome is a leukemic variant. Treatment depends on the extent of disease and includes topical or systemic chemotherapy, radiotherapy and psoralen plus long-wave ultraviolet light therapy. 
Fatal rupture of the intracranial carotid artery during transluminal angioplasty for vasospasm induced by subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report. The authors report the clinical course, radiographic findings, and gross and microscopic pathology of a patient with fatal rupture of the supraclinoid segment of the left internal carotid artery during transluminal angioplasty for subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced vasospasm. The rupture most likely resulted from a small portion of aneurysm neck which remained unclipped, thereby leaving an area of structural weakness in the arterial wall at the site of clipping. The area of structural weakness predisposed the artery to rupture upon the addition of transmural pressure induced by balloon inflation during transluminal angioplasty. Caution is advised when performing transluminal angioplasty in the region of aneurysm clipping since the vessel lumen "recreated" during the clipping procedure may contain some residual and structurally incomplete aneurysm neck in the vessel wall. 
Selective salpingography and fallopian tube recanalization Obstruction of the uterine (proximal) end of the fallopian tube is noted on up to 20% of hysterosalpingograms and has a variety of underlying causes. Definitive diagnosis and treatment in the past have required laparoscopy or laparotomy with tubal resection. Selective salpingography and fallopian tube recanalization with fluoroscopically guided catheters has emerged as an improved method both for diagnosis and treatment in these patients. Technical success rates for overcoming the obstruction and visualizing distal tubal anatomy range from 76% to 95%. Pregnancy rates after the procedure vary depending on the patient populations studied; however, early results indicate a greater than 50% intrauterine pregnancy rate by 1 year. The rate of ectopic pregnancy is approximately 10% and that of early tubal reocclusion is less than 30%. Selective salpingography and fallopian tube recanalization is recommended as the first intervention in patients with obstruction of the proximal fallopian tube. 
Distribution of BCA-225 in adenocarcinomas. An immunohistochemical study of 446 cases. BCA-225 is a glycoprotein identified in human breast carcinoma cells that has been reported to show a restricted distribution in other human tissues. To further define the presence of BCA-225 in human carcinomas, the authors performed an immunohistochemical study, applying a commercially available monoclonal antibody to BCA-225 to formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections of 446 adenocarcinomas from a variety of sites. BCA-225 expression was found to be common in adenocarcinomas of the breast (98%), kidney (94%), ovary (80%), and lung (74%) but was infrequent in adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract (10-16%). Adenocarcinomas of the prostate, bile ducts, thyroid, endometrium, endocervix, and pancreas showed an intermediate frequency of BCA-225 expression (36-68%). Although rare tumor cells in three hepatocellular carcinomas showed reactivity for BCA-225, staining of more than 10% of the tumor cells was not seen in any of the 23 hepatocellular carcinomas that were studied. The authors conclude that BCA-225 is expressed commonly in human adenocarcinomas and that it is not a breast-specific antigen. Antibodies to BCA-225 may have utility in helping one to exclude hepatocellular carcinoma in certain clinical settings. 
Carotid endarterectomy in a community hospital: a change in physicians' practice patterns. A total of 243 consecutive carotid endarterectomies (CEA) performed at Providence Medical Center in Portland, Oregon, were retrospectively reviewed over a 22-month period. Of these, 137 patients (56%) underwent CEA for asymptomatic disease, 52 (37%) of whom had stenotic lesions of 79% or less. There were 6 deaths (3%) and 12 strokes (5%). Four strokes were in asymptomatic patients. These data prompted development of criteria for CEA: (1) hemisphere-specific transient ischemic attacks, reversible ischemic neurologic deficits, or amaurosis fugax with an appropriate carotid lesion; (2) completed stroke with major recovery and significant carotid stenosis; (3) asymptomatic lesion with greater than 80% stenosis (D+) either by carotid arteriogram or non-invasive lab evaluation; and (4) other indications only with a supporting second opinion from a disinterested vascular surgeon, neurosurgeon or neurologist. A prospective review followed institution of the guidelines. In 21 months, 148 operations were performed, a 36% reduction over the initial study period. Of these, 46 (31%) were for asymptomatic lesions. Two patients (4%) did not fulfill the guideline criteria. There were six strokes (4%) and no deaths. The reduction of CEAs appears to be related to a significant decrease in "inappropriate" operations being performed. Surgeons' familiarity with the data rather than external pressures seems to be the major factor in changing practice patterns. The decrease in stroke/death rate is not statistically significant. 
Transcutaneous oxygen tensions in assessing the treatment of healed venous ulcers Transcutaneous oxygen tension (Ptc,O2) was assessed as an indicator of risk of reulceration in 68 limbs with healed venous ulcers. Ptc,O2 was also used to assess two methods of ulcer prophylaxis. Measurements were made over the gaiter skin, the healed ulcer and the upper arm. The results were expressed as a ratio of the lower limb readings over those taken from the arm. Patients were randomized, after the ulcer had healed, to elastic stockings and stanozolol, or elastic stockings and surgical ligation of incompetent superficial veins. Patients who declined to participate in the study were prescribed elastic stockings only. Those limbs remaining healed at 12 months had Ptc,O2 ratios remeasured. The Ptc,O2 ratios from limbs that reulcerated were not significantly lower than those from limbs remaining healed. The Ptc,O2 ratio was significantly increased in limbs treated by stanozolol and elastic stockings (P less than 0.05) and by surgery and elastic stockings (P less than 0.05). There was no significant increase in Ptc,O2 in limbs treated by elastic stockings alone. In those treated by surgery and elastic stockings, there was a significant improvement in limbs with normal deep veins (P less than 0.01), but not in limbs with post-thrombotic changes on ascending phlebography. Although these two methods of ulcer prophylaxis improve the Ptc,O2 ratio, a high ratio has not been shown to be beneficial in preventing ulcer recurrence. 
Improving compliance in an inner-city hypertensive patient population. Because hypertension is a "silent" disease process, compliance with therapy is always a problem. In the inner city, where socioeconomic factors such as poverty, illiteracy, and substance abuse raise additional barriers to effective health care, poor compliance with antihypertensive regimens can reach epidemic proportions--as it did in our clinic in the early 1970s. After identifying the major causes of poor compliance in our patients, we instituted measures that led directly to greatly improved compliance and control, among them the expansion of clinic hours, the expediting of laboratory services, and the training of nurse-therapists to assume many of the responsibilities of running the clinic. In recent years a number of new antihypertensive agents have been introduced, and these new drugs have afforded patients better blood pressure control through less complex drug regimens with fewer serious side effects. Indeed, we observed a strong correlation between patient compliance and the administration of agents with longer dosing intervals and improved side effects profiles. This observation led us to consider whether transdermal clonidine--which requires weekly, rather than daily, administration--might not be an especially effective means of controlling blood pressure in inner-city patients. To test this hypothesis, we enrolled 20 patients, all of them blacks, in a pilot study of this unique delivery system. Blood pressure was adequately controlled in all 18 patients who completed the study, and patients were uniformly enthusiastic about this alternative to daily dosing. As a result, compliance with this mode of therapy was excellent. 
Cardioreparative effects of lisinopril in rats with genetic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. BACKGROUND. In genetic and acquired hypertension, a structural remodeling of the nonmyocyte compartment of the myocardium, including the accumulation of fibrillar collagen within the interstitium and adventitia of intramyocardial coronary arteries and a medial thickening of these vessels, represents a determinant of pathological hypertrophy that leads to ventricular dysfunction. METHODS AND RESULTS. To evaluate the benefit of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition in reversing this interstitial and vascular remodeling in the rat with genetic spontaneous hypertension (SHR) and established left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), we treated 14-week-old male SHR with oral lisinopril (average dose, 15 mg/kg/day) for 12 weeks. Myocardial stiffness and coronary vascular reserve to adenosine (800 micrograms/min) were examined in the isolated heart; myocardial collagen and intramural coronary artery architecture were analyzed morphometrically. In lisinopril-treated SHR compared with 14-week-old baseline or 26-week-old untreated SHR and age- and sex-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) controls, we found 1) a regression in LVH and normalization of blood pressure, 2) a complete regression of interstitial fibrosis, represented by a decrease of interstitial collagen volume fraction from 7.0 +/- 1.3% to 3.2 +/- 0.3% (p less than 0.025; WKY, 2.8 +/- 0.5%), 3) normalization of myocardial stiffness constant from 19.5 +/- 0.9 to 13.7 +/- 1.3 (p less than 0.025; WKY, 13.8 +/- 2.2), 4) a reversal of intramural coronary artery remodeling, including a decrease in the ratio of perivascular fibrosis to vessel lumen size from 1.4 +/- 0.2 to 0.4 +/- 0.1 (p less than 0.025; WKY, 0.6 +/- 0.1) and medial thickening from 12.3 +/- 0.6 to 7.4 +/- 0.5 microns (p less than 0.005; WKY, 7.4 +/- 0.4 microns), and 4) a restoration of coronary vasodilator response to adenosine from 12.3 +/- 0.9 to 26.0 +/- 1.4 ml/min/g (p less than 0.005; WKY, 21.8 +/- 2.2 ml/min/g). Thus, in SHR with LVH and adverse structural remodeling of the cardiac interstitium, lisinopril reversed fibrous tissue accumulation and medial thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries and restored myocardial stiffness and coronary vascular reserve to normal. CONCLUSIONS. These cardioreparative properties of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition may be valuable in reversing left ventricular dysfunction in hypertensive heart disease. 
Fetal akinesia deformation sequence (Pena-Shokeir phenotype) associated with acquired intrauterine brain damage. An infant with Pena-Shokeir phenotype was born to a cocaine-using mother. The pathologic findings included polyhydramnios, facial anomalies, arthrogryposis, camptodactyly, pulmonary hypoplasia, and tetralogy of Fallot. The neuropathologic findings were diffuse brainstem and spinal cord neuronal degeneration and focal cerebral infarction, consistent with acquired intrauterine ischemic damage. 
Diagnosis and localization of laceration of the thoracic duct: usefulness of lymphangiography and CT. The usefulness of lymphangiography and CT in the diagnosis and localization of laceration of the thoracic duct was evaluated in 12 patients with chylothorax or chylous ascites after surgery. Bipedal lymphangiography was performed in all 12 patients. The last four patients studied also had CT after lymphangiography. Seven patients had abnormal findings on lymphangiograms; five with leaks from the thoracic duct, one with a lymphocele in a nephrectomy bed, and one with obstructed intestinal lymphatic vessels after thoracotomy. Five patients had no evidence of lymphatic leakage. CT in one patient with evidence of a leak on lymphangiography showed extravasation of contrast medium into the mediastinum and pleural space. CT in three patients with no abnormalities on lymphangiography also showed no abnormalities. Four of the five thoracic duct lacerations and the lymphocele were confirmed surgically. The diagnosis of obstructed intestinal lymphatic vessels was supported clinically. Four of the five patients with normal findings on lymphangiograms had resolution of their pleural effusions and no evidence of recurrence during a follow-up period of 1-27 months. One patient with normal findings on lymphangiography had an alternative diagnosis established at surgery. Laceration of the thoracic duct was accurately diagnosed and localized with lymphangiography, which allowed definitive surgical repair. CT was of little additional value in diagnosing these injuries. 
Bacterial infection and peripheral vascular disease. Whole blood filterability was monitored in 16 nondiabetic peripheral vascular disease (PVD) patients within forty-eight hours of onset of bacterial infection, after ten to seventeen days antibiotic therapy and again, ten days later, after convalescence. The whole blood filterability rate was constantly disturbed before infection in these patients; the impairment worsened significantly (as was expected during infection), but after convalescence the whole blood filterability rate did not return to preinfection levels. This further significant impairment in whole blood filterability was inversely correlated with a reduction in the patients' pain-free walking time as determined by a standard treadmell test performed after convalescence and compared with their average times before infection. 
Intra-ocular pressure variations during extracorporeal circulation and some influencing factors. Intra-ocular pressure (IOP) variations during extracorporeal circulation (ECC) and some influencing factors were studied prospectively in 38 patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. IOPs were measured pre-operatively, during ECC (after 5 min, 10 min, 25 min and every 15 min thereafter), and on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd postoperative days. IOP, haematocrit, arterial perfusion pressure, partial O2 pressure, partial CO2 pressure, pH and blood bicarbonate levels were measured simultaneously. After the beginning of ECC, arterial perfusion pressure and haematocrit values decreased suddenly, while IOP raised immediately. Sudden increase of blood volume in the beginning of ECC can be the probable cause of IOP elevation. Afterwards, IOP levels decreased to pre-ECC levels. We think that the drop is due to the effect of mannitol in the priming solution and hyposecretion of aqueous humour due to insufficient nutrition-oxygenation of corpus ciliaris after haemodynamic stabilization. 
Cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis in total hip replacement. A theoretical analysis was performed regarding the cost-effectiveness in terms of lives saved (reduction of fatal pulmonary embolism [PE]) and in terms of money (dollars spent for prevention and treatment) of seven strategies in the management of venous thromboembolic disease in patients over 39 years of age undergoing elective total hip replacement (THR). Strikingly, this theoretical analysis suggests that low-dose warfarin combined with clinical surveillance of deep vein thrombosis would reduce the incidence of fatal PE from 20 per 1,000 patients to 4 per 1,000 patients and simultaneously reduce the charges for venous thromboembolic disease from $550,000 to about $400,000 per 1,000 patients. Based on this analysis, we strongly recommend this measure on a routine basis. Adding venography or duplex sonography routinely to this prophylactic regimen would, in this theoretical analysis, reduce the incidence of fatal PE from 4 per 1,000 patients to 0.15 per 1,000, but adds charges of $200,000 per extra life saved in the case of routine venography and $50,000 in the case of routine sonography. Low-dose warfarin prophylaxis combined with routine sonography does not generate more charges than no prophylaxis with no screening while drastically reducing the incidence of fatal PE from 20 to 0.3 per 1,000 patients. Where duplex sonography is not easily available, a 12-week postoperative course of low-dose warfarin for every patient with no routine screening will be efficacious in reducing fatal PE and as cost-effective. 
Treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts with octreotide. Pancreatic pseudocysts are a common and painful complication of chronic pancreatitis. Seven patients (six male, one female; mean age 49.9 years) with chronic pancreatitis complicated by pseudocysts and persistent pain were treated with the pancreatic anti-secretory drug octreotide for 2 weeks. Octreotide caused no notable changes in the size of the pseudocysts of three patients. In the remaining four patients, the pseudocysts decreased in size by a mean of 42% (range 29-52%), and pain disappeared completely. These findings suggest a role for octreotide in the treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts. 
A simple radiologic method to estimate the quantity of bowel gas. Patients with functional bowel disorders frequently complain of bloating and abdominal pain, but no practical method is available to measure intestinal gas objectively. To evaluate a new technique, we evaluated 54 abdominal radiographs from 19 patients. A gastroenterologist and a radiologist independently outlined the intestinal gas bubbles in these films. Areas of gas bubbles were measured with a computer digitizing board. Bowel gas was also measured in 24 healthy controls, and in five emergency room patients, supine and erect radiographs were compared to evaluate the effects of position on bowel gas patterns. The two evaluators agreed well on the measured areas of bowel gas (r = 0.96), showing that this is a reliable method. Bowel gas was significantly greater in patients than in controls but did not correlate with symptoms. Bowel gas was significantly greater in supine than upright films, showing that the position of the patient must be standardized. 
Primary angiosarcoma of adrenal gland presenting as paraneoplastic syndrome: case report. Angiosarcoma is an uncommon neoplasm that rarely involves the adrenal gland. We report on a patient with primary angiosarcoma of the adrenal gland who presented with symptoms best characterized as a paraneoplastic syndrome. 
Reversal of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive lung disease by inspiratory assistance with a face mask. BACKGROUND. Patients with acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease may require endotracheal intubation with mechanical ventilation. We designed, and here report on the efficacy of, a noninvasive ventilatory-assistance apparatus to provide inspiratory-pressure support by means of a face mask. METHODS. We assessed the short-term (45-minute) physiologic effects of the apparatus in 11 patients with acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and evaluated its therapeutic efficacy in 13 such patients (including 3 of the 11 in the physiologic study) who were treated for several days and compared with 13 matched historical-control patients. RESULTS. In the physiologic study, after 45 minutes of inspiratory positive airway pressure by face mask, the mean (+/- SD) arterial pH rose from 7.31 +/- 0.08 to 7.38 +/- 0.07 (P less than 0.01), the partial pressure of carbon dioxide fell from 68 +/- 17 mm Hg to 55 +/- 15 mm Hg (P less than 0.01), and the partial pressure of oxygen rose from 52 +/- 12 mm Hg to 69 +/- 16 mm Hg (P less than 0.05). These changes were accompanied by marked reductions in respiratory rate (from 31 +/- 7 to 21 +/- 9 breaths per minute, P less than 0.01). Only 1 of the 13 patients treated with inspiratory positive airway pressure needed tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation, as compared with 11 of the 13 historical controls (P less than 0.001). Two patients in each group died. As compared with the controls, the treated patients had a more transient need for ventilatory assistance (3 +/- 1 vs. 12 +/- 11 days, P less than 0.01) and a shorter stay in the intensive care unit (7 +/- 3 vs. 19 +/- 13 days, P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. Inspiratory positive airway pressure delivered by a face mask can obviate the need for conventional mechanical ventilation in patients with acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
Occlusive peripheral vascular disease: a multicenter trial of fluorescence-guided, pulsed dye laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. Fluorescence-guided, laser-assisted balloon angioplasty was performed in 129 patients with iliac and femoropopliteal artery chronic occlusions (range, 0.5-50.0 cm; mean length, 9.9 cm) after failure of recanalization with standard guide-wire techniques. Laser recanalization and short-term angiographic success were achieved in 101 (72%) and 95 (68%) of 140 occlusions, respectively. Laser and balloon angioplasty failures were encountered in heavily calcified plaques or after perforations and dissections. Complications included perforations (19%), hematomas (5%), thromboses (4%), and distal embolizations (4%). Real-time fluorescence spectroscopy identified thrombus, white fibrous plaque, and media but could not avoid perforations in many cases because laser wire advancement outdistanced fluorescence sensing. Disruption of tissue by means of pressure transients and/or mechanical advancement occurred in at least 36% of lesions where the laser energy was insufficient (less than 0.4 J/cm) to ablate significant tissue. Integration of fluorescence guidance with pulsed dye laser ablation is feasible, but additional refinements are necessary to increase safety and efficacy. 
Predicting chemically induced duodenal ulcer and adrenal necrosis with classification trees. Binary tree-structured statistical classification algorithms and properties of 56 model alkyl nucleophiles were brought to bear on two problems of experimental pharmacology and toxicology. Each rat of a learning sample of 745 was administered one compound and autopsied to determine the presence of duodenal ulcer or adrenal hemorrhagic necrosis. The cited statistical classification schemes were then applied to these outcomes and 67 features of the compounds to ascertain those characteristics that are associated with biologic activity. For predicting duodenal ulceration, dipole moment, melting point, and solubility in octanol are particularly important, while for predicting adrenal necrosis, important features include the number of sulfhydryl groups and double bonds. These methods may constitute inexpensive but powerful ways to screen untested compounds for possible organ-specific toxicity. Mechanisms for the etiology and pathogenesis of the duodenal and adrenal lesions are suggested, as are additional avenues for drug design. 
Therapeutic defibrination with ancrod does not protect canine myocardium from reperfusion injury. The purpose of this study was to determine whether normal fibrinogen contributes to the development of myocardial reperfusion injury by acting as a substrate in vivo for neutrophil adhesion. This was tested in a dog model of acute myocardial infarction that used pentobarbital anesthetized dogs subjected to 90 min regional myocardial ischemia and 5 h reperfusion. Dogs were treated with 1 unit/kg Ancrod (venom from the Malayan pit viper, Agkistrodon rhodostoma) or vehicle i.v. 60 min after left circumflex coronary artery occlusion. Therapeutic defibrination was verified in Ancrod-treated dogs by measurements of clottable fibrinogen, alpha-2 antiplasmin and plasminogen, by the activated partial thromboplastin time and by immunoelectrophoresis. Fibrinogen was depleted to below detectable limits of the assay (less than 0.05 mg/ml) after treatment with Ancrod. The defibrination effect was accomplished by the expected activation of the fibrinolytic system: alpha-2 antiplasmin was decreased by 10% and plasminogen activity was decreased by 30% with Ancrod treatment. There were no measureable differences between the two treatment groups in heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure, rate pressure product or circumflex coronary blood flow throughout the 90 min of regional ischemia or during the 5 h of reperfusion. The relative severity of ischemia between the two treatment groups was similar when assessed with radiolabeled microsphere measurement of myocardial blood flow. The accumulation of neutrophils (measured by myeloperoxidase activity) within the myocardium after reperfusion was not reduced by prior depletion of fibrinogen. 
Foreign body in the gastrointestinal tract: intraluminal migration of laparotomy sponge. We have reported a case of complete transluminal migration of a retained laparotomy sponge that caused repeated partial small bowel obstruction. Diagnosis was made when roentgenograms showed multiple positions of the laparotomy marker. The sponge was surgically removed. This is the 69th reported case of complete transluminal migration and distal movement of a laparotomy sponge. 
Ceftazidime as monotherapy or combined with teicoplanin for initial empiric treatment of presumed bacteremia in febrile granulocytopenic patients. In a prospective randomized study, 120 febrile, granulocytopenic patients received as initial therapy ceftazidime with or without teicoplanin. At the onset of fever, patients had no obvious infectious focus. For 103 assessable episodes, initial bacteremias were detected in 18 of 51 patients (35%) given ceftazidime and 20 of 52 patients (38%) given the combination; 13 and 17 bacteremias caused by gram-positive bacteria occurred in these groups, respectively. There was no difference in terms of the final response (25 of 51 patients [49%] treated with ceftazidime alone versus 33 of 52 patients [63%] given the combination), and the morbidity was comparable for both treatment groups. The duration of fever and of total antibiotic therapy were similar in both groups. Initial therapy was modified in 26 patients (51%) treated with ceftazidime, with 20 surviving the infection, and in 19 patients (37%) treated with the combination, with 15 surviving. Persistent fever was the main reason for changing treatment, and no patient died of a gram-positive infection. Subsequent infective events occurred in 16 patients (31%) given ceftazidime and in 25 patients (48%) given the combination. Lung infiltrates developed in 12 and 13 patients, respectively, but more new infections occurred in the combination group. Allergic skin reactions were also more frequent in this group. Thus, while teicoplanin provides simple, reliable, and safe treatment of patients with presumed gram-positive infections, it is not useful when given empirically to this patient population, and treatment may result in more infective complications and adverse events. 
Pulmonary mass and air meniscus sign in a 19-year-old man. Sacrococcygeal teratoma is rarely diagnosed in adults. Pulmonary mass as the presenting clinical form of the malignant variety of this germ-cell tumor is exceptional. We report herein such a case with the noticeable peculiarity of showing the air meniscus sign on chest roentgenographic examination. 
Occult papillary microcarcinoma of the thyroid--a potential pitfall of fine needle aspiration cytology? The use of fine needle aspiration cytology detected papillary carcinoma in two patients with multinodular goitre measuring 0.7 cm and 0.9 cm in diameter, respectively. Like most of the cases from previous large series, the tumours progressed slowly as shown by absence of enlarged glands on surgical exploration and no clinical signs of metastasis after two and five years of follow up. This study shows that aspiration cytology can detect a virtually harmless occult papillary carcinoma that will oblige patients to have surgery. This very occasional "pitfall" of fine needle aspiration should not preclude this well known beneficial method from being used in the management of thyroid disease. 
The risk of axillofemoral bypass grafting for acute vascular occlusion. The hypothesis of the present study is that axillofemoral bypass grafting for acute vascular occlusion has results significantly inferior to an elective procedure. We reviewed 53 patients undergoing primary axillofemoral bypass grafting at the University of Virginia from 1984 to 1989. We found that patients who were admitted with acute vascular occlusion had a higher incidence of perioperative complications (63% vs 26%, p = 0.001), perioperative mortality (26% vs 3%, p less than 0.05), lower graft patency at 1 year (60% vs 90%, p less than 0.05), lower rate of freedom from reoperation in first year (50% vs 82%, p less than 0.01), and lower rates of limb salvage (76% vs 94%, p less than 0.05) than patients undergoing axillofemoral bypass grafting for chronic symptoms or conditions. These two groups did not differ in any of the other risk factors or perioperative characteristics examined. We conclude axillofemoral bypass grafting performed for indications other than acute vascular occlusion is associated with acceptable morbidity, mortality, graft patency, and limb salvage rates. 
Thermographic observations on rats with experimental neuropathic pain. Infrared thermographic images were obtained from the plantar hind paws of rats with an experimental nerve injury that produces signs of neuropathic pain. Thermograms confirmed that the experimental neuropathy produces signs resembling those of patients with neuropathic pain. The hind paws on the nerve-damaged side were abnormally hot, abnormally cold, or apparently normal 8-16 days post injury, a variability that is seen clinically in neuropathic pain patients. Abnormally cold hind paws became warm as soon as the injured sciatic nerve was transected, indicating that the underlying vasoconstriction was mediated by neural impulse activity. Xylazine (Rompun), a sympatho-inhibitory alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist that normally increases cutaneous temperature, caused the hind paw on the control side to warm, as anticipated, while causing paradoxical cooling of abnormally hot hind paws, and even of 'normal temperature' paws on the nerve-injured side. These findings shed light on possible mechanisms underlying abnormal deviations of skin temperature as a symptom of nerve injury. The findings also attest to the usefulness of the experimental animal model of neuropathic pain and of the thermographic method. 
DuP 753 increases survival in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats fed a high sodium diet. We studied the effects of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist, DuP 753, on blood pressure, body weight, plasma renin activity, sodium excretion, and mortality in male stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRsp) fed a 4% NaCl diet for 12 weeks. The rise in blood pressure, due to high sodium intake, was blunted in the first 8 weeks of the study in the DuP 753-treated group; however, it started slowly to rise in the following weeks. In the untreated group, blood pressure rose steadily and it was significantly higher than that of the treated group during the whole experimental period. DuP 753-treated rats gained weight continuously during the study in contrast to the untreated group, where weight gain was arrested after 4 weeks. Plasma renin activity rose significantly after 4 weeks of treatment with DuP 753; by week 6 its values returned to baseline values and remained at these lower values until week 12. In the untreated group, plasma renin activity was not suppressed by high sodium intake after 4 weeks; it continued to rise and it was significantly elevated by 8 and 12 weeks. Survival at 12 weeks was 84% in DuP 753-treated group and 26% in the untreated group. The data demonstrate that DuP 753 decreased mortality and dramatically blunted the blood pressure rise in SHRsp fed a high sodium diet. 
Cystic cerebellar schwannoma: case report. We report a case of cerebellar schwannoma in a 64-year-old woman. The tumor was defined on computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging scans and confirmed on surgery. The solid part of the tumor appeared to be derived from the inferior vermis of the cerebellum, the cystic part extending toward the medulla oblongata and the foramen magnum. The problem of preoperative diagnosis based on magnetic resonance imaging findings is discussed. 
The value of portable chest roentgenography in adult respiratory distress syndrome. Comparison with computed tomography. In 17 patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome, we used data derived from computed tomographic (CT) scan densitometric analysis to validate the value of portable chest roentgenograms in objectively estimating the amount of pulmonary edema. Chest roentgenograms and CT scans were taken in the same ventilatory conditions (apnea at 10 cm H2O of positive end-expiratory pressure [PEEP]); blood gas samples and hemodynamic parameters were collected at the same time. Roentgenographic analysis was undertaken by independent observers using two standardized scoring systems proposed in the literature. CT scan analysis was performed using the CT number frequency distribution and the gas lung volume (measured by helium dilution technique) to estimate quantitatively the lung density, the lung weight, and the percentage of normally aerated and nonaerated tissue. Knowing the mean CT number of the pulmonary parenchyma in a group of normal subjects, we also inferred the ideal lung weight expected in the study population and computed the excess tissue mass as the difference between actual and ideal lung weight. Both the roentgenographic scoring systems showed direct correlation with the pulmonary impairment as detected by CT scan densitometric analysis (CT number, percentage of nonaerated tissue, lung weight, and excess tissue mass; p less than 0.01) and inverse relation with the percentage of normally aerated tissue (p less than 0.01). We also found a relationship between roentgenographic scores and the impairment in gas exchange as detected by shunt fraction (p less than 0.05). We conclude that standardized reading of portable chest roentgenograms by means of scoring tables is a valuable tool in estimating the amount of pulmonary edema in a patient with adult respiratory distress syndrome. 
Which asymptomatic patients should undergo routine screening carotid duplex scan? The benefits of obtaining a routine screening carotid duplex scan have not been established for patients with peripheral vascular disease but no signs or symptoms of carotid artery disease. We retrospectively reviewed all carotid duplex scans (4,000) performed at our institution between 1985 through 1989 and found for analysis 91 scans in 78 patients who underwent a screening duplex scan because of the presence of peripheral vascular disease. Patients with carotid bruits, abnormal carotid pulses, and focal or nonspecific neurologic symptoms were excluded. Thirty-three percent of these patients had carotid stenosis of 16% to 50%, 14% had carotid stenosis greater than or equal to 50%, and 5% had stenosis greater than or equal to 75%. Individual risk factors for atherosclerosis, including elderly age, coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, and a recent or past history of cardiac or vascular surgery, did not predict the detection of high-grade carotid stenosis. However, all 11 of the patients with carotid stenosis greater than or equal to 50% were 68 years of age and older, and this age range, in combination with the various risk factors, increased the incidence of significant carotid artery stenosis (greater than or equal to 50%) to as high as 45%. We conclude that routine screening carotid duplex scan is indicated in elderly patients (age greater than or equal to 68 years) with peripheral vascular disease, even in the absence of any signs or symptoms of carotid artery disease, when other atherosclerotic risk factors are present. 
Inhibitory effects of the gastrin receptor antagonist (L-365,260) on gastrointestinal tumor cells. A selective gastrin receptor (GR) antagonist, L-365,260 is bound to the GR on AR42J cells with a potency 7.5-fold less than G17 (50% inhibitory concentration [IC50] G17, 6 x 10(-9) mol/l; IC50 L365-260, 4.5 x 10(-8) mol/l). G17 is mitogenic for AR42J cells, as assessed by 75Se-selenomethionine uptake and L-365,260 at concentrations of 2.5 x 10(-6) mol/l and 2.5 x 10(-7) mol/l, (55X and 5.5 X the dose required to displace 50% 125I G17, respectively), and reduced optimal G17 stimulated mitogenesis in 75% of experiments. The basal growth of two human colon cancer cell lines, LoVo and C146 was reduced by L-365,260 (2.5 x 10(-7) mol/l) after 5 days of treatment to 44% and 64% of the control, respectively. However, inhibition was followed by a rebound of growth to control levels. The growth of AR42J xenografts in nude mice was increased by administration of G17 (10 micrograms/mouse/d, P less than 0.027). This increase was blocked by coadministration of oral L-365,260 (5 mg/kg/d, P less than 0.034). L-365,260 could be an important therapeutic agent in slowing the growth of GR-positive, G17-sensitive gastrointestinal tumors. 
Slipped capital femoral epiphysis. A quantitative analysis of motion, gait, and femoral remodeling after in situ fixation. A prospective clinical study was done for quantitative examination of motion of the hip, gait, and proximal femoral remodeling after in situ fixation of a slipped capital femoral epiphysis. In situ fixation was performed in forty-five consecutively treated patients (fifty-six hips). Thirty-nine (87 per cent) of the patients returned for examination two years after treatment. The greatest percentage of motion of the hip returned within six months after treatment. Despite loss of internal rotation of the hip, the mean foot-progression angle was 10.8 degrees. Radiography and computerized tomographic scanning revealed minimum change in the relationship of the femoral head to the femoral shaft and no change in the neck-shaft angle. Motion returned despite minimum osseous remodeling. The early return of motion (in the first three months) may have been due to relief of pain, spasm, and synovitis, while soft-tissue stretching and resorption of bone in the anterolateral part of the femoral neck may have accounted for the remainder of the increase in internal rotation. 
Dissection of the protein kinase cascade by which nerve growth factor activates MAP kinases. Mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinases (MAPKs) are a family of protein-serine/threonine kinases activated as an early intracellular response to a variety of hormones and growth factors. They are unique in requiring both serine/threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation to become active and are the only examples of protein-serine/threonine kinases activated by tyrosine phosphorylation. Nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes differentiation of phaeochromocytoma (PC12) cells, which respond by conversion within hours from a chromaffin-like to a sympathetic neuron-like phenotype. NGF stimulation of PC12 cells increases the activity of two protein kinases by greater than 20-fold within minutes, both strikingly similar to MAPKs. They are inactivated by either protein-tyrosine phosphatases or the protein-serine/threonine phosphatase termed protein phosphatase 2A (ref. 8), they activate protein S6 kinase-II (refs 9, 10), and they phosphorylate identical threonine residues on myelin basic protein (our unpublished results) to those phosphorylated by other MAPKs. Immunological data indicate that these protein kinases, termed peak-I and peak-II (Fig. 1a) are probably ERK2 and ERK1, respectively, two widely expressed MAPK isoforms. Here we identify the 'MAP kinase kinases' (MAPKKs) in PC12 cells which are activated by NGF and report that MAPKKs are dependent on serine/threonine phosphorylation for activity and promote phosphorylation of serine/threonine and tyrosine residues on MAPKs. 
Assessment of a daily combined preparation of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide in a controlled trial of three 6-month regimens for smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis. Singapore Tuberculosis Service/British Medical Research Council In a study in Singapore 310 patients with sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were allocated at random to daily chemotherapy with streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide (1) for 2 months (2SHRZ), (2) for 1 month (1SHRZ), or (3) for 2 months without streptomycin (2HRZ). This was followed for all patients by three times weekly isoniazid and rifampin to a total duration of 6 months. During the initial period of daily chemotherapy the patients were also allocated at random to be given their HRZ either as a combined formulation (Rifater), each tablet containing 50 mg isoniazid, 120 mg rifampin, and 300 mg pyrazinamide, or as three separate drugs. During the Rifater versus separate drugs comparison the most common spontaneous complaints were of nausea and vomiting, reported by 8% of 155 patients receiving Rifater and 7% of 155 separate drugs. Other adverse effects were also reported in similar proportions in the two series. Among 271 patients with drug-susceptible strains of tubercle bacilli pretreatment there were no bacteriologic failures during chemotherapy. During 18 months of subsequent follow-up bacteriologic relapse occurred in 3 (7%) of 46 2SHRZ, 2 (5%) of 42 1SHRZ, and 3 (8%) of 40 2HRZ patients allocated to Rifater and in 0 of 47 2SHRZ, 1 (2%) of 46 1SHRZ, and 1 (2%) of 44 2HRZ patients allocated to separate drugs. There was no evidence of therapeutic benefit from continuing SHRZ administration beyond 1 month or from adding streptomycin to HRZ. The relapse rates were slightly higher in the Rifater series (p = 0.04). Further follow-up and results from other studies are therefore needed fully to assess the combined preparation. 
Heart rate response during exercise testing and ambulatory ECG monitoring in patients with syndrome X. The response of the heart rate during exercise testing and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring performed with patients not receiving antianginal treatment was assessed in 26 patients (9 men and 17 women; mean age 51 +/- 8 years) with syndrome X (angina pectoris with normal coronary arteries), in 27 patients with coronary artery disease (10 men and 17 women; mean age 55 +/- 9 years), and in 21 healthy subjects (8 men and 13 women; mean age 47 +/- 11 years). In patients with syndrome X the slope of the regression line of heart rate versus time (heart rate/time slope) during exercise testing was similar to that of patients with coronary artery disease (3.3 +/- 0.8 versus 3.1 +/- 1.2 beats/min), but significantly lower than that in healthy subjects (4.2 +/- 1.1 beats/min; p less than 0.003). In patients with syndrome X the intercept of the heart rate/time slope was significantly higher than that in coronary artery disease patients and healthy subjects (102 +/- 15, 86 +/- 18, and 90 +/- 16 beats/min, respectively; p less than 0.015). Resting preexercise heart rate was also significantly higher in syndrome X, compared with coronary artery disease patients and healthy subjects (91 +/- 16, 79 +/- 16, and 80 +/- 14 beats/min, respectively). During ambulatory ECG monitoring, mean diurnal heart rate (from 6 AM to 6 PM) was higher in patients with syndrome X (83 +/- 8 beats/min) than in patients with coronary artery disease (75 +/- 8 beats/min) and healthy subjects (74 +/- 11 beats/min) (p less than 0.02). 
Human immunodeficiency virus infection among homeless men in a New York City shelter. Association with Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seroprevalence among a selected sample of 169 high-risk homeless men residing in a congregate shelter in New York City, NY, was 62%. Seropositivity for HIV correlated significantly with intravenous drug use (odds ratio, 3.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.4 to 4.4) and active tuberculosis (odds ratio, 7.0; 95% confidence interval, 3.4 to 13.5). Most cases of active tuberculosis were among homeless men with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex; and significant CD4 lymphocyte depletion was associated with active tuberculosis. Total time homeless correlated positively with active and latent tuberculosis infection. Compliance rates with return for HIV antibody test results, medications, and follow-up visits were 70%, suggesting a significant degree of knowledge, awareness, and personal concern regarding HIV infection among homeless men; yet 28% of homeless intravenous drug users continue active drug injection, despite HIV infection. Cohabitation in overcrowded congregate dormitories creates a risk of airborne transmission of tuberculosis, which is a common reactivation infection in HIV-seropositive homeless men. Medically appropriate housing should be provided to such homeless persons, and expanded HIV antibody testing, counseling, and medical services on site should be offered to residents of shelters. 
An eyelash nidus for dacryoliths of the lacrimal excretory and secretory systems. We treated two patients with dacryolithiasis secondary to an eyelash. The first patient underwent dacryocystorhinostomy for a stone within the lacrimal sac. In the second patient the dacryolith was removed from a lacrimal gland ductule. Eyelashes found in the tear film or conjunctival fornices during routine examination should be removed to prevent the possible occurrence of dacryolithiasis. 
Catecholamine responses to histamine infusion in man. To evaluate the effects of histamine-induced hypotension on plasma catecholamine levels, eight normal men, aged 20 to 40 years, were infused with incremental doses of histamine starting at 0.2 microgram/kg/min at a 30 degree tilt position with monitoring of blood pressure (BP) and heart rate. Histamine dosage was increased every 5 minutes by 0.1 to 0.2 microgram/kg/min until mean BP fell greater than 15 mm Hg or a dosage of 1.6 micrograms/kg/min was reached. Plasma catecholamine samples were taken between the fourth and fifth minute of each histamine dosage. Identical measurements were made during nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in these subjects. Histamine produced threefold greater increases in heart rate and plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels than did nitroglycerin for comparable decreases in BP. Although NE levels increased twofold to fivefold from baseline with histamine infusion, epinephrine levels increased minimally at the highest doses or not at all. Our data demonstrate that histamine selectively releases NE from adrenergic nerve terminals without significant adrenal catecholamine release. We suggest that neural NE release plays an important role in the cardiac effects of histamine. 
Radiotherapy of advanced laryngeal cancer using three small fractions daily. Since 1983, we have treated advanced (UICC stages III and IV) squamous carcinomas of the larynx by primary radiotherapy, using three small fractions a day, 3-4 h interfraction interval, 5 days per week. The early patients received doses per fraction of 1.5 Gy, and a total dose of approximately 70 Gy, given as a split-course over 6 to 7 weeks. While overall tumor control and laryngeal preservation was good, a number of severe late radiation reactions were seen. The schedule was then modified, with a reduction in the fraction size to 1.1 Gy, the total dose to 60 Gy, and the overall time to 4 weeks, with omission of the mid-treatment "split." Since 1986, we have treated 26 patients in this way. Acute reactions are brisk, but rapidly healing. Loco-regional control was achieved in 22 patients, only one of whom has relapsed to date, in a solitary node, salvaged by radical neck dissection. Four have died of uncontrolled loco-regional malignancy, and three of intercurrent disease while in clinical remission. No serious late morbidity has been observed in surviving patients, and vocal quality is good in the majority. These results suggest that this hyperfractionated and accelerated radiotherapy schedule may offer an acceptable nonsurgical, voice-preserving treatment for advanced laryngeal carcinoma; it can be used in a normally working radiotherapy department. 
Double-blind randomized multicenter study comparing Maalox TC tablets and ranitidine in healing of duodenal ulcers. The efficacy of ranitidine 150 mg twice daily and Maalox TC three tablets four times daily were compared in patients with endoscopically confirmed duodenal ulcer. Seventy-nine patients were randomly allocated to double-blind, double-dummy treatment, stratified for smokers. Endoscopy was repeated after four weeks. Those unhealed continued treatment for a further two weeks before final endoscopy. Per protocol analysis in 53 patients showed ulcer healing rates at week 4 and at weeks 4 and 6 combined of 78 and 89% on Maalox TC, and of 81 and 91% on ranitidine, respectively. The same analysis gave overall healing rates of 81% in smokers and 100% in nonsmokers, irrespective of treatment. Both treatments provided early ulcer pain relief. Diarrhea was a commoner side effect in patients on Maalox TC. The study showed Maalox TC and ranitidine were equally effective in healing duodenal ulceration. 
Multicenter trial of prophylaxis with clindamycin plus aztreonam or cefotaxime in gynecologic surgery. A prospective, randomized, multicenter study was conducted on the efficacy and safety of two prophylactic antibiotic regimens in both abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy. Patients received three intravenous doses of clindamycin (900 mg) plus either aztreonam (1 g) or cefotaxime (1 g); the doses were given at the induction of anesthesia and 8 and 16 hours later. A total of 170 patients undergoing abdominal hysterectomy and 142 patients undergoing vaginal hysterectomy completed the trial and were evaluated. Following abdominal hysterectomy infections occurred at the operative site in 1.2% of patients given a regimen including aztreonam and in 4.7% of those given a regimen including cefotaxime; the difference between the two groups was not significant. Neither were significant differences observed in the incidence of fever, the incidence of bacteriuria, the need for postoperative antibiotics, or the duration of postoperative hospitalization, although results were slightly better for patients receiving clindamycin plus aztreonam. Following vaginal hysterectomy, slightly but not significantly better results for the same parameters were obtained in the group given clindamycin plus cefotaxime. Diarrhea was the only adverse reaction attributable to antibiotic treatment and occurred more frequently in patients given cefotaxime. It was concluded that the two regimens were similarly effective and safe in preventing infections following hysterectomy. 
Post-sclerotherapy bacterial peritonitis. Endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy has been associated with a number of complications. Peritonitis after sclerotherapy has rarely been reported. In this retrospective review of 213 consecutive sclerotherapy procedures among 65 patients over a 3-yr period, we found that six cases of peritonitis occurred, for an incidence of approximately 3%. All patients developing post-sclerotherapy peritonitis had low ascitic fluid protein. However, this did not differ from patients who did not develop peritonitis. No patient on antibiotics at the time of sclerotherapy developed peritonitis. Peritonitis should be considered in the diagnosis of post-sclerotherapy fever. The role of prophylactic antibiotics to prevent this complication is uncertain. 
Renal atrophy or infarction in children with neuroblastoma. Twelve children with adrenal or upper abdominal paraaortic neuroblastoma developed unilateral or bilateral renal atrophy or infarction. At presentation, the children ranged in age from 2 weeks to 9.7 years. Neuroblastomas were stage II (n = 1), III (n = 2), IV-S (n = 2), and IV (n = 7). Treatment varied but included surgery, chemotherapy, localized abdominal irradiation, and/or bone marrow transplantation. Six children developed ipsilateral renal atrophy, five experienced ipsilateral or bilateral acute perioperative renal infarction, and one developed contralateral renal infarction unrelated to surgery. During treatment, two patients required hemodialysis; both subsequently died. Creatinine concentrations in eight patients have been in the normal range. Two patients have had mildly but persistently elevated creatinine levels. Renal damage from primary effects of the tumor can develop in children with adrenal or upper abdominal neuroblastoma. Treatment, especially surgical resection of the primary tumor, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy, can compound such damage. 
Prognostic factors in childhood acute encephalitis. We have studied the prognostic factors in 462 children, from 1 month to 16 years old, with acute encephalitis. Death occurred in 2.8% patients, 6.7% were severely damaged and 90.5% were cured with no or only minor sequelae. The risk of death or severe damage in patients less than 1 year of age was 5.0-fold (95% confidence limits, 2.2 to 11.6; P less than 0.001) greater than that of older children. When compared with those children whose level of consciousness had been normal before admission, children who had been disoriented before admission had a 3.9-fold (1.1 to 14.3, P less than 0.05) risk and those who had been unconscious had a 25.4-fold (7.3 to 88.1, P less than 0.001) greater risk of death or severe damage. The risk of death or severe damage in patients with herpes simplex virus encephalitis was 11.7-fold (3.8 to 35.8, P less than 0.001) and in patients with Mycoplasma pneumoniae encephalitis it was 7.0-fold (2.6 to 18.7, P less than 0.001) that of other children. All patients with none of the above mentioned risk factors were cured without any major sequelae. We conclude that specific attention should be paid to the youngest patients, especially to those with an impaired level of consciousness, and all available measures should be focused on early detection of herpes simplex virus or M. pneumoniae infection. 
Metastases of a gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as colonic polyposis. Report of a case. The authors report a case of multiple colonic metastases of a gastric signet ring cell adenocarcinoma, presenting as colonic polyposis revealed by diarrhea, iron deficiency anemia, and left supraclavicular lymph node. 
The induction and maintenance of central sensitization is dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor activation; implications for the treatment of post-injury pain hypersensitivity states. Repetitive stimulation of small diameter primary afferent fibres produces a progressive increase in action potential discharge (windup) and a prolonged increase in the excitability of neurones in the spinal cord following the stimulus. Previous studies have demonstrated that windup is the consequence of the temporal summation of slow synaptic potentials and that the slow potentials and windup are reduced by pretreatment with N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) antagonists. We have now examined whether primary afferent induced hypersensitivity states in flexor motoneurones are also dependent on the activation of NMDA receptors and whether windup is a possible trigger for the production of the central hypersensitivity. Both a non-competitive (MK-801) and a competitive (D-CPP) NMDA antagonist, at doses that did not modify the baseline reflex, reduced the facilitation of the flexor reflex produced by either brief electrical stimulation of the sural nerve (1 Hz for 20 sec at C-fibre strength), or by the cutaneous application of the chemical irritant mustard oil. These antagonists also prevented windup from occurring in the motoneurones. When the the MK-801 and the D-CPP were administered once a state of central facilitation had been induced by prior treatment with mustard oil, they returned the facilitated reflex to its pretreatment level. These results indicate that NMDA receptors are involved in the induction and maintenance of the central sensitization produced by high threshold primary afferent inputs. Because central sensitization is likely to contribute to the post-injury pain hypersensitivity states in man, these data have a bearing both on the potential role of NMDA antagonists for pre-emptive analgesia and for treating established pain states. 
C terminus of the small GTP-binding protein smg p25A contains two geranylgeranylated cysteine residues and a methyl ester. smg p25A, also known as the rab3A protein, is a small GTP-binding protein that has been implicated in intracellular vesicle transport and the secretion of neurotransmitters. It has been shown to bind reversibly to membranes, though its cDNA-predicted sequence contains no obvious membrane-binding domains. However, smg p25A does contain a cDNA-predicted C-terminal Cys-Ala-Cys sequence at positions 218 through 220, which suggests that it may be posttranslationally modified. In the present study we used two different approaches to investigate this possibility. First, we incubated pheochromocytoma cells with [3H]mevalonolactone, examined the proteins that became labeled by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and demonstrated that two of these proteins exactly corresponded to smg p25A. Second, we purified smg p25A from bovine brain membranes and analyzed both the full-length protein and a proteolytically derived C-terminal peptide by a combination of high performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. This approach revealed that the protein's C-terminal region is methyl-esterified and contains two geranylgeranyl groups linked via thioether bonds to Cys-218 and Cys-220. Since smg p25A is one of several small GTP-binding proteins that share a C-terminal Cys-Xaa-Cys consensus sequence (where Xaa is an unspecified amino acid), our results suggest that these proteins may be similarly geranylgeranylated and methyl-esterified. 
Pericardial haemorrhage causing right atrial compression after cardiac surgery: role of transoesophageal echocardiography. After cardiac surgery transoesophageal echocardiography showed a large thrombus compressing the right atrium in three hypotensive patients. No satisfactory images were obtained by transthoracic imaging, which is often difficult in ventilated patients after cardiac surgery. Transoesophageal echocardiography, however, provided rapid diagnostic information and permitted prompt surgical intervention. 
Impact of diagnosis-related groups on the quality of postoperative care of patients with neck dissections. Two hundred eighty patients underwent neck dissection over a 10-year period: 138 during the 5-year period before the institution of Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) reimbursement and 142 during the 5 years after DRG regulations. A comparison of these two groups by site of tumor, stage of disease, histopathology, previous treatment, type of neck dissection, whether neck dissection was carried out alone or in combination with another procedure, presence of preexisting disease, postoperative complications, and mortality revealed no significant differences. A 35% reduction in the length of hospital stay from 16 to 10 days was identified in the post-DRG group with no detrimental effects on patient care. The variables found to have the greatest impact on length of hospital stay were the extent of operation and postoperative complications. 
Monomorphous histiocytoma in a child. Report of a case with ultrastructural features suggestive of dendritic cell differentiation. The authors describe a rapidly growing soft tissue tumor of predominantly histiocytic composition in an 8-year-old child. The tumor cells were identified as elements of the mononuclear phagocyte system by histologic, histochemical, immunologic, and electron microscopic study. Despite the presence of a minor fibroblastic component, the tumor did not conform to established criteria for a diagnosis of malignant fibrous histiocytoma. Formation of frequent desmosome-like intercellular junctions raised the possibility of dendritic reticulum cell differentiation, since the latter cells seem to be the only elements of the mononuclear phagocyte system that display such specialized cell junctions. The results of immunostaining were discrepant with those reported for normal dendritic reticulum cells, but the currently available information makes it doubtful that the entire neoplastic spectrum of dendritic cell differentiation can currently be diagnosed in surgical pathology. 
Effects of a meal on hemodynamic function at rest and during exercise in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Many patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy experience postprandial exacerbation of their symptoms. The vasodilation associated with eating may be deleterious in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, especially during exercise. To examine the hemodynamic effects of a meal in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, 11 patients were studied with invasive hemodynamic monitoring during exercise testing in the fasting state and 45 min after a 740 kcal (3,100 J) meal. The meal induced a decrease in systemic vascular resistance index at rest (mean +/- SD, -17 +/- 14%), increases in mean right atrial (31 +/- 21%), mean pulmonary artery (14 +/- 14%) and mean pulmonary capillary wedge (17 +/- 14%) pressures and an increase in cardiac index (18 +/- 10%) due to an increased heart rate without any significant change in stroke volume. During postprandial exercise, heart rate, rate-pressure product, cardiac index and cardiac filling pressures were higher than during fasting exercise and one patient had a decrease in exercise blood pressure compared with the fasting test. Five patients with postprandial exacerbation of symptoms in everyday life had a lesser increase in systemic arterial pressure and stroke volume during both exercise tests and a smaller increase in cardiac index after the meal than did the six patients without postprandial symptom exacerbation, suggesting more severe cardiac disease. It is concluded that patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy have an abnormal hemodynamic response to food, in which stroke volume fails to increase and pulmonary capillary wedge and pulmonary artery pressures increase. These adverse changes persist during postprandial exercise and may predispose to exertional collapse in certain patients. 
Optimum concentration of bupivacaine for combined caudal--general anesthesia in children. Caudal epidural anesthesia has become widely accepted as a means of providing postoperative pain relief and intraoperative supplementation to general anesthesia for children. To determine the best concentration of bupivacaine for combined general-caudal anesthesia in children, 122 children aged 1-8 yr scheduled for outpatient inguinal herniorrhaphy were randomized to receive, in a double-blind fashion, caudal anesthesia with bupivacaine in one of six concentrations (0.125, 0.15, 0.175, 0.2, 0.225, or 0.25%). After incision, a programmed reduction in inspired halothane resulted, if tolerated by the subject, in an inspired halothane concentration of 0.5% 10 min after incision. End-tidal halothane concentration at hernia sac ligation for subjects receiving 0.175% bupivacaine (0.55 +/- 0.03%) was less than that for subjects receiving 0.15% bupivacaine (0.75 +/- 0.05%; P less than 0.05). Subjects receiving 0.175% bupivacaine also were discharged earlier from the postanesthesia care unit (PACU) (27 +/- 1 min) than were subjects receiving 0.15% bupivacaine (38 +/- 5 min; P = 0.05). Children receiving greater than or equal to 0.2% bupivacaine tended to complain more of leg weakness after surgery; however, the difference did not reach statistical significance (39 of 67 vs. 16 of 47; P = 0.057). The incidence of complaints of leg weakness and paresthesia was positively correlated with bupivacaine concentration (r = 0.706; P = 0.05). Subjects receiving 0.125% bupivacaine had higher pain scores on arrival to the PACU than did those receiving 0.2% bupivacaine (P = 0.05); there were no other differences in pain scores. 
Functional and urodynamic characteristics of bladder substitution with detubularised right colonic segment. A total of 19 patients underwent bladder replacement with a detubularised right colonic segment; 14 males underwent complete substitution after cystoprostatectomy and 5 females had augmentation after subtotal cystectomy. The mean follow-up time was 20 months. Urodynamic evaluation showed a low pressure reservoir with a mean capacity of 580 ml and normal closure pressure. Sensitivity of the bladder to cold was normal in the augmentation group but was lacking in all patients in the total substitution group. In all except 1 patient the neobladder emptied effectively upon straining without significant residual urine. Seventeen patients were completely continent by day and 10 by night; 1 patient developed hyperchloraemic acidosis requiring treatment. Bladder substitution is superior to the standard ileal or colonic conduits with regard to quality of life, and the use of a right colonic segment is functionally comparable with neobladders composed of the ileum or a combination of the right colon and ileum. The latter are more difficult to fabricate and so may have more complications. 
Effect of cisapride on delayed gastric emptying in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. Some patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease have delayed gastric emptying. This study investigates the effect of cisapride on gastric emptying in 34 patients with proved reflux and delayed gastric emptying of solids. They were enrolled in a double blind controlled crossover study. Placebo or cisapride (10 mg) tablets were given three times a day for three days followed by further assessment of gastric emptying. The protocol was repeated with the crossover tablet. Gastric emptying was assessed by a dual radionuclide technique. The percentage of a solid meal remaining in the stomach at 100 minutes (% R100 minutes) and the time taken for 50% of the liquid to empty (T50 minutes) were calculated and analysed by the Wilcoxon matched pairs signed ranks test and expressed as medians (ranges). For gastric emptying of solids the initial % R100 minutes (70 (60-100)%) was not significantly different from placebo (71 (35-100)%). After cisapride treatment a significant acceleration (p less than 0.001) in gastric emptying occurred (% R100 minutes, 50.5 (28-93)%). Similarly with gastric emptying of liquids, the initial T50 minute value was 26.5 (12-82) minutes, after placebo the value was 28 (11-81) minutes, but this was significantly accelerated with cisapride (p less than 0.03) to 22.5 (6-61) minutes. The acceleration in gastric emptying occurred in the proximal portion of the stomach for gastric emptying of both solids and liquids suggesting that this is the principal site of action of cisapride. We conclude that cisapride significantly accelerates gastric emptying of both solids and liquids in patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and delayed gastric emptying. 
Myelin splitting in the spongy lesion in Leigh encephalopathy. A spongy lesion consists of numerous vacuoles, mainly in the central gray matter, and is a characteristic finding in subacute necrotizing encephalopathy (Leigh encephalopathy); the cause of this lesion is unknown. An ultrastructural study on the vacuolated lesions in the left putamen of a patient with subacute necrotizing encephalopathy due to a deficiency of mitochondrial enzyme complexes I and IV revealed that the vacuoles were formed through the splitting of myelin. Because myelin splitting is commonly caused by toxic or metabolic diseases in humans and experimental animals, we believe that the vacuolation was due to the splitting of myelin which was caused by abnormal mitochondrial metabolism, even though this lesion is most commonly found in the white matter. We do not know whether the spongy lesion is formed only through myelin splitting in patients with subacute necrotizing encephalopathy; however, myelin splitting must play an important role in the formation of the spongy lesion. 
Depression and fatigue in the primary care physician. Fatigue is a symptom that is found in a variety of psychiatric disorders. The nature of a physician's life may foster such symptoms that can be either a reaction to work or a sign of an emotional disorder. This article summarizes various developmental stages that can lead to such problems. These difficulties may also be found in the physician's family and can be easily overlooked. 
Prolonged QT interval and risk of sudden death in South-East Asian men. Sudden death in sleep occurs in substantial numbers among young men in South-East Asia. The frequencies of electrocardiographic abnormalities were measured in groups with varying risks of such sudden death. The mean heart-rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) was significantly (p less than 0.05) greater among 123 Laotian refugees in Thailand at high risk (405 [95% confidence interval 397-413] ms) than in 77 Laotian refugees in the United States at lower risk (364 [359-369] ms) and 199 non-Asian US residents at negligible risk (358 [354-362] ms). Among refugees in Thailand, prolonged QTc interval was associated with poor thiamine status and a history of seizure-like episodes in sleep. Thiamine deficiency may be a cause of prolonged QT interval and sudden death in this region. 
MR imaging in hydatid disease. Hydatid cysts may develop anywhere in the body as a result of the presence of a viable parasite (Echinococcus granulosus). Depending on the condition of the parasite, the host reaction, and therapy, the hydatid cyst will degenerate and may eventually collapse, leaving an area of calcification in the host tissue. The purpose of this pictorial essay is to demonstrate the use of MR imaging in the diagnosis of the various stages of hydatid disease and in monitoring response to therapy. 
Nucleokinesis: distinct pattern of cell translocation in response to an autocrine motility factor-like substance or fibronectin [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Aug 15;88(16):7456] Human lung adenocarcinoma cells develop bipolar shape with prominent pseudopodia (greater than or equal to 200 microns) when cultured in the presence of autocrine motility factor (AMF)-like substance or on fibronectin-coated substrata. AMF was partially purified from a human lung adenocarcinoma cell line and has a peak biological activity at a molecular mass of 67 kDa. Using time-lapse photography, we observed that during AMF- or fibronectin-induced cell translocation, the nuclei of some bipolar cells are transported to the opposite end of the cell, while gross cell shape and position remain unchanged. Following this nuclear movement, which we call "nucleokinesis," the posterior pseudopodium is retracted behind the nucleus. Thus, extension of a pseudopodium followed by nucleokinesis in the same direction and retraction of the cell body behind the nucleus is a normal motile sequence in translocating bipolar cells. This suggests that nucleokinesis is a distinct step in whole-cell translocation of bipolar cells on biological substrata and that pseudopodia can be used as nuclear transport organs. In contrast, adenocarcinoma cells cultured on artificial substrata and in the absence of AMF display a fibroblast-like motility pattern with the nucleus centrally located within the migrating cell. 
Clinical and electrodiagnostic features of X-linked recessive bulbospinal neuronopathy. We describe four men from two kinships affected with X-linked recessive bulbospinal neuronopathy, and one sporadic case. All developed postural tremor, weakness, and fasciculations, with onset from age 25 to 39 years. Weakness began in the pelvic girdle or hands, with dysphagia or dysarthria occurring years later in two. Sensory symptoms were present in only one, who also had diabetes mellitus. In contrast, sural nerve action potentials were small or absent in all. Needle EMG showed widespread chronic partial denervation with reinnervation. The characteristic twitching of the chin produced by pursing of the lips consisted of repetitive or grouped motor unit discharges, rather than fasciculations. Broader awareness of the distinctive features of bulbospinal neuronopathy will probably increase the frequency of its recognition. Diagnosis is important for purposes of providing a prognosis for affected men and genetic counseling for affected families. 
Use of albumin as a volume expander. In some hospitals, albumin products account for 10% of the pharmaceutical budget. As much as 60% of these prescriptions are empiric, and from 40 to 70% of albumin that is administered is given for inappropriate reasons. Although the reasons for albumin administration vary, prevention or reversal of hypovolemia is part of the reason in the majority of cases. 
Venous obstruction: an analysis of one hundred thirty-seven cases with hemodynamic, venographic, and clinical correlations. One hundred thirty-seven limbs with venous obstruction were analyzed. The arm/foot venous pressure differential and reactive hyperemia tests were found to be useful techniques to diagnose and grade venous obstruction. Traditional techniques including venography and ambulatory venous pressure are inferior in this regard. The newer techniques have provided newer insights in venous obstruction which are detailed herein. The hand-held Doppler was surprisingly very sensitive in grade I as well as in more severe forms of obstruction. Neither anatomic locale of obstruction nor its extent determined hemodynamic severity. Extensive proximal lesions could be hemodynamically mild, and conversely distal crural obstructions and single segment lesions could be hemodynamically severe. Phlebographic appearance was a poor index of collateralization. The paradoxical venous pressure response to the reactive hyperemia test in grade IV obstruction was found to be due to suppression or delay of the reactive hyperemia response itself in the presence of severe venous obstruction. The pain of venous claudication may be related to this phenomenon. Skin ulceration in the presence of venous obstruction was related to the associated reflux rather than the hemodynamic severity of the obstruction itself. The Linton procedure was found to be useful in treating such skin ulcerations. After perforator disruption, obstruction did not become hemodynamically worse, but reflux as measured by the Valsalva test improved with ulcer healing. The improvement in reflux related to Valsalva offers for the first time a hemodynamic rationale for the Linton procedure. 
Epidemiology of acute respiratory infections in children of developing countries. Acute respiratory infections cause four and a half million deaths among children every year, the overwhelming majority occurring in developing countries. Pneumonia unassociated with measles causes 70% of these deaths; post-measles pneumonia, 15%; pertussis, 10%; and bronchiolitis and croup syndromes, 5%. Both bacterial and viral pathogens are responsible for these deaths. The most important bacterial agents are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Staphylococcus aureus. The data on bacterial etiology of pneumonia during the first 3 months of life are limited, and almost no information on the role of chlamydia and pertussis in this age period is available. The distribution of viral pathogens in developing countries can be summarized as follows: respiratory syncytial virus, 15%-20%; parainfluenza viruses, 7%-10%; and influenza A and B viruses and adenovirus, 2%-4%. Mixed viral and bacterial infections occur frequently. Risk factors that increase the incidence and severity of lower respiratory infection in developing countries include large family size, lateness in the birth order, crowding, low birth weight, malnutrition, vitamin A deficiency, lack of breast feeding, pollution, and young age. Effective interventions for prevention and medical case management are urgently needed to save the lives of many children predisposed to severe disease. 
Prevention of anastomosis leakage: an artificial connective tissue. Anastomosis leakage still causes considerable morbidity and mortality after digestive tract surgery. We report here our experience of the use of reconstituted connective tissue created from elastin, fibronectin and collagen in preventing anastomosis leakage and closing intestinal fistulas. In animal studies (56 rats), this connective tissue was used as a patch applied with fibrin sealant to the edges of a 1 cm diameter colonic defect. In a clinical evaluation, eight patients had an intestinal fistula closed by a simple sewn suture reinforced by a sealed patch and seven patients had a high risk anastomosis reinforced by a sealed patch, in most cases as an alternative to staged surgery. In animal studies, complete reconstitution of the three colonic layers was obtained without retraction and without inflammatory reaction within 40 days, while the patch was slowly resorbed. In clinical trials all 15 defects and anastomoses healed without complication. Three patients died from other causes and, at autopsy, the patch was found to have remained in place covering the suture line. If these results are confirmed by a prospective clinical trial, such biomaterial offers the possibility of reducing the occurrence of anastomosis leakage, especially in high risk circumstances. 
Elective versus emergency cesarean hysterectomy cases in a residency program setting: a review of 129 cases from 1984 to 1988. A retrospective study was performed to compare elective versus emergency cesarean hysterectomy in a residency program. We noted the following statistically significant differences between emergency and elective cases: (1) Estimated blood loss (mean +/- SD) for emergency and elective cases was significantly different at 1495 +/- 772 and 875 +/- 396 ml (p = 0.001). (2) Operative time in emergency cases was significantly longer than in elective cases (105 +/- 38 vs 83 +/- 27 minutes, p = 0.003). (3) The incidence of transfusion was 68% in our emergency cases and 14.6% in the elective series (p less than 0.05). (4) Febrile morbidity in our series was 40% in emergency cases and 18.3% in elective cases (p less than 0.05). Our series was comparable to previous series reported. Our experience suggests that cesarean hysterectomy can be performed safely in a residency training program when done as an elective procedure in the well-prepared patient. 
Cardiovascular effects of volatile anesthesia in rabbits: influence of chronic heart failure and enalaprilat treatment. Circulatory responses to isoflurane and halothane anesthesia were studied in eight rabbits with biventricular cardiomyopathy induced by doxorubicin (Adriamycin, 14 mg/kg IV over 7 wk) and in eight controls (saline injections). In preliminary operations pulsed-Doppler flow probes were placed on the ascending aorta, left renal artery, and lower abdominal aorta. Each group was studied after 4, 6, and 7 wk of treatment. The development of congestive heart failure (CHF) was associated with decreases in mean arterial pressure and cardiac output (CO) of 14% and 16%, respectively, (P less than 0.05) and an increase in heart rate. In controls, each anesthetic agent produced dose-related decreases in mean arterial pressure and increases in heart rate, but not significant changes in CO. Renal blood flow was reduced to a similar degree by 1.3 MAC halothane (24% decrease) and 1.3 MAC isoflurane (21% decrease); hindlimb blood flow was reduced only by halothane. As CHF developed there was an attenuation of the heart rate response to anesthesia. Halothane, but not isoflurane, significantly reduced CO in more advanced stages of CHF. The changes in renal blood flow and hindlimb blood flow with each anesthetic in the CHF group were similar to those observed in controls and did not vary with week of treatment. Administration of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalaprilat (0.2 mg/kg IV) reversed the CO and renal blood flow effects of halothane except after 7 wk of treatment in the CHF group, when the combination of halothane and enalaprilat resulted in severe circulatory depression. 
Dilatation of ascending aorta in patients with repaired coarctation. The long-term outcome following repair of typical aortic coarctation in adulthood may be complicated by disorders of the ascending aorta. Follow-up averaging 15 years revealed a 3.8% incidence of dilatation of the ascending aorta after such late repair. Hypertension and concomitant aortic valvular disease were common in these patients. Aortic dilatation can appear years after coarctation repair, irrespective of the operative technique and its success, and can lead to death from aortic dissection or rupture of an aortic aneurysm. Careful follow-up after coarctation repair in adulthood is advisable to detect late aortic complications. 
Multicenter study of superficial bladder cancer treated with intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin or adriamycin. Results of long-term follow-up. We evaluated 158 cases of patients with superficial bladder cancers (Stages Ta, T1, and Tis). These cases were treated with either intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) (Tice strain) or Adriamycin (ADR), in a multicenter, nonrandomized study. One hundred thirty-one of these patients were followed up; the results continue to show a higher percentage of initial complete remissions with BCG (68%) than with ADR (57%). With additional therapy, both BCG and ADR achieved complete remission in 83 percent of the patients. When 7 failures with patients taking ADR were switched to BCG and the disease cleared, the rate of complete remission for BCG rose to 85 percent. The recurrence rate per 100 patient-months was only slightly different for BCG (0.9) and ADR (0.8). The percentage of progressions continued to be higher for BCG (8%) than for ADR (5%). Cystectomies were performed in 2.5 percent of the BCG patients. Using the Cox regression model with covariates, we found drug treatment, tumor grade, and sex to be statistically significant in determining failures throughout the protocol. Although both BCG and ADR were effective over the course of the study, BCG is the drug of choice for residual tumor (Stages T1 and Tis). 
Chronic morphine therapy for cancer pain: plasma and cerebrospinal fluid morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide concentrations. Morphine-6-glucuronide (M-6-G) is an active metabolite that may contribute to the clinical effects produced by systemic administration of morphine. To help clarify the extent to which M-6-G may cross the blood-brain barrier and exert effects, we employed high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection to measure the concentrations of M-6-G and morphine in the plasma and either ventricular (three patients) or lumbar (eight patients) CSF of cancer patients receiving chronic morphine therapy. The mean ratio of morphine in ventricular CSF:morphine in plasma was 0.71; the same ratio for M-6-G was only 0.077. The average molar ratio of M-6-G: morphine in ventricular CSF was 0.207, and the average molar ratio in plasma was 1.89. Although sampling problems render the lumbar CSF results less reliable, they were very similar. Thus, plasma contained approximately twice as much M-6-G as morphine, whereas CSF contained only one-fifth to one-third as much. These data confirm that M-6-G in plasma is distributed into CSF, but to a far lesser extent than morphine. They help explain animal data demonstrating much higher potency of M-6-G on administration into CSF than systemic administration and indicate that the degree to which M-6-G contributes to morphine effects in humans remains an unresolved question. 
Ascitic fluid pH and lactate: insensitive and nonspecific tests in detecting ascitic fluid infection. Ascitic fluid pH and lactate concentration have been proposed as useful tests for the detection of ascitic fluid infection. However, past studies involved small numbers of infected patients, and all did not use optimal culture techniques. This large study was performed using highly sensitive culture methods and sought (a) to compare the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of pH and lactate to that of the ascitic fluid neutrophil count and (b) to determine whether evaluation of ascitic fluid pH or lactate (or arterial-ascitic fluid pH or lactate gradient) would result in improved decision-making regarding empirical treatment of suspected ascitic fluid infection. Analysis of 206 ascitic fluid specimens obtained in 175 patients, including 101 infected specimens, revealed that ascitic fluid (or arterial-ascitic fluid) pH and lactate were less than 50% sensitive in detecting bacterial peritonitis and that these tests did not improve clinical decision-making about empirical treatment of suspected ascitic fluid infection. Although statistically significant differences in ascitic fluid pH were detected between infected samples and control samples, these differences did not appear to be clinically helpful. The ascitic fluid pH was 0% sensitive in detecting the presence of bacteria in the absence of neutrophils (i.e., no such specimens had a pH lower than 7.35). Ascitic fluid pH correlated well with neutrophil count and appears to be, at least in part, an indirect measure of the presence of neutrophils in ascitic fluid. Measurement of pH or lactate (or arterial-ascitic fluid gradients) is not helpful in the clinical management of infected ascitic fluid. 
Klinefelter's syndrome and liver adenoma. We describe the occurrence of a liver adenoma in a young patient with Klinefelter's syndrome, diagnosed by classic 47,XXY karyotype in all investigated cells and a sex hormone imbalance. To our knowledge, this is the first report of such an association, which might suggest a simple coincidence. However, a pathogenetic link between Klinefelter's syndrome and liver adenoma can be suggested in view of the following facts: Liver adenoma mostly affects women of child-bearing age using oral contraceptives. It is very rare in men, and affected men frequently have been treated with androgens. Both groups are characterized by a sex hormone imbalance. Also, the risk of breast cancer, another hormone-sensitive tumor, is greatly elevated in men with Klinefelter's syndrome, possibly due to sex hormone imbalance. 
Heart rate response during exercise testing and ambulatory ECG monitoring in patients with syndrome X. The response of the heart rate during exercise testing and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring performed with patients not receiving antianginal treatment was assessed in 26 patients (9 men and 17 women; mean age 51 +/- 8 years) with syndrome X (angina pectoris with normal coronary arteries), in 27 patients with coronary artery disease (10 men and 17 women; mean age 55 +/- 9 years), and in 21 healthy subjects (8 men and 13 women; mean age 47 +/- 11 years). In patients with syndrome X the slope of the regression line of heart rate versus time (heart rate/time slope) during exercise testing was similar to that of patients with coronary artery disease (3.3 +/- 0.8 versus 3.1 +/- 1.2 beats/min), but significantly lower than that in healthy subjects (4.2 +/- 1.1 beats/min; p less than 0.003). In patients with syndrome X the intercept of the heart rate/time slope was significantly higher than that in coronary artery disease patients and healthy subjects (102 +/- 15, 86 +/- 18, and 90 +/- 16 beats/min, respectively; p less than 0.015). Resting preexercise heart rate was also significantly higher in syndrome X, compared with coronary artery disease patients and healthy subjects (91 +/- 16, 79 +/- 16, and 80 +/- 14 beats/min, respectively). During ambulatory ECG monitoring, mean diurnal heart rate (from 6 AM to 6 PM) was higher in patients with syndrome X (83 +/- 8 beats/min) than in patients with coronary artery disease (75 +/- 8 beats/min) and healthy subjects (74 +/- 11 beats/min) (p less than 0.02). 
Association of immunoreactive eosinophil major basic protein with placental septa and cysts. A protein that is immunochemically indistinguishable from the major basic protein of the eosinophil granule is present at elevated concentrations in the plasma of pregnant women. Major basic protein has been localized to placental trophoblasts known as X cells. Because X cells are located in placental septa and septal cysts, we tested whether the numbers of these structures are correlated with plasma levels of major basic protein. Data analysis revealed strong positive correlations between maternal plasma major basic protein concentrations and the number of placental septa, septal cysts, and subchorial cysts and the presence of subchorial fibrin deposits. No significant correlation was found between plasma major basic protein levels and other variables examined, such as placental weight. Thus major basic protein is a specific marker for septa and cysts, presumably because it is an X-cell product. The study of major basic protein may aid in delineating the function and ontogeny of X cells, as well as their role in fibrin deposition and in septa and cyst formation. 
Experimental model of left ventricular failure. A model of chronic cardiac failure has undergone extensive hemodynamic investigation. Under anesthesia the homonymous and second diagonal coronary arteries of sheep have been ligated. The resulting myocardial infarction caused significant acute hemodynamic impairment (paired two-tailed t tests), mean pulmonary artery pressure increasing from 7.31 +/- 0.94 to 13.80 +/- 1.19 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), pulmonary artery diastolic pressure increasing from 4.94 +/- 1.03 to 11.13 +/- 1.27 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and directly measured left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increasing from 9.31 +/- 1.52 to 17.42 +/- 1.82 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) after infarction documented with invasive monitoring. There was a hemodynamically significant left ventricular aneurysm (paired two-tailed t tests) in animals studied 3 months later, with increased mean pulmonary artery pressure from 7.20 +/- 1.15 to 13.80 +/- 2.00 mm Hg (p = 0.009), an increase in pulmonary artery diastolic pressure from 4.60 +/- 1.30 to 12.10 +/- 2.06 mm Hg (p = 0.006), and an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 11.00 +/- 1.94 mm Hg before infarction to 17.00 +/- 2.69 mm Hg (p = 0.038). We conclude that this is a useful model of chronic left ventricular failure that is reproducible and applicable to investigations of therapeutic options in chronic heart failure. 
The clinical and endocrine outcome to trans-sphenoidal microsurgery of nonsecreting pituitary adenomas. From 1962 to 1987, 126 patients underwent trans-sphenoidal surgery for primary treatment of pituitary adenomas unassociated with clinical or biochemical evidence of hormonal overproduction. There were 73 male and 53 female patients (mean age, 50 +/- 12 years). Before surgery, 56% of the patients (70 of 124) had headaches, 74% (94 of 126) had deterioration of vision, and 12% (15 of 126) had ophthalmoplegia. Endocrine evaluation revealed the presence of hypogonadism in 75% (87 of 115), adrenal insufficiency in 36% (46 of 126), and hypothyroidism in 18% (21 of 122). Plasma prolactin was increased in 65% (56 of 86) with a mean level of 39 +/- 14 micrograms/l (normal, 3 to 20 micrograms/l). Radiologic enlargement of the sella turcica was documented in all cases: 67% (84 of 126) had enclosed and 33% (42 of 126) had invasive adenomas. After surgery, vision was normalized or improved in 75% (71 of 94) of the patients. Thyroid, adrenal, and gonadal functions were improved in 14% (three of 22), 41% (19 of 46), 11% (ten of 87), were unchanged in 82% (100 of 122), 77% (97 of 126), 89% (102 of 115), and worsened in 15% (19 of 22), 8% (ten of 126), 3% (102 of 115), respectively. Permanent diabetes insipidus occurred in 5% (seven of 126). Two patients died during the immediate postoperative period. The recurrence rate in patients with a mean follow-up of 6.4 +/- 4.2 years was 21% (15 of 71). These data indicate that trans-sphenoidal microsurgery is an effective and safe initial treatment for patients with nonsecreting pituitary adenoma and may reverse hypopituitarism. 
The current approach to the medical diagnosis of low back pain. A small number of patients who present with low back pain will have an underlying medical disorder as the source of their pain. Patients who fail to respond to conservative management with controlled physical activity and nonnarcotic analgesics should have a thorough re-evaluation to detect possible sources of nonmechanical pain. Symptoms of fever, weight loss, recumbency pain, morning stiffness, acute severe pain, or colicky back pain represent specific entry points into the algorithm for diagnosis of back pain from underlying systemic illnesses. These patients will generally require a plain roentgenographic examination with subsequent scintography, MRI, CT, laboratory work, and biopsy as indicated by any positive findings during the diagnostic work-up. Therapy for individuals with nonmechanical low back pain is directed at the specific medical disorder that is the cause of their symptoms. 
Melanocytic differentiation of human neuroblastoma: expression of a human melanosome-associated antigen. Five human neuroblastoma cell lines were examined for expression of a human melanosome-associated antigen (HMSA). Only cell line SK-N-SH reacted with a monoclonal antibody, HMSA-2, shown to recognize melanosomal glycoproteins. To further characterize the melanocytic lineages of SK-N-SH, three morphologically distinct clones designated SK-N-SH-N (neuroblast type), SK-N-SH-F (fibroblast type), and SK-N-SH-EP (epithelial type) were established by colony formation cloning. By fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis and tyrosinase assay, we found that only SK-N-SH-EP and SK-N-SH-F reacted with HMSA-2 and had tyrosinase activity. These results suggest that epithelial-type and fibroblast-type cells appear to possess the melanocytic potential, but not neuroblast-type cells. Furthermore, SK-N-SH-EP was found to spontaneously convert to neuroblast-type or fibroblast-type cells, whereas SK-N-SH-N and SK-N-SH-F clones have remained morphologically stable. Our results suggest that at least one neuroblastoma cell line, SK-N-SH, may be an excellent model for investigating clonal maturation and the melanocytic differentiation of neuroblastoma. 
Levels of morphine and metabolites in CSF during respiratory depression after intraventricular morphine injection. We report a case of respiratory depression after intracerebroventricular morphine administration of a dose inadvertently 10 times greater than the typical daily dose. At the time of the respiratory dysfunction, the concentrations of morphine and its metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma samples were determined. On comparison of these results with previous clinical studies in which there was no respiratory depression, no relationship was found between the occurrence of respiratory depression and the concentration of morphine or its metabolites in the CSF. The occurrence and characteristics of respiratory depression may be related to the concentrations of morphine and its metabolites in bulbar tissue. 
Influence of progressive and of transient hypoxia on upper airway resistance in normal humans. In order to evaluate the influence of hypoxia on upper airway patency, we measured the response of upper airway resistance (UAR) to progressive (P) normocapnic hypoxia (Rebuck's method) and transient (T) hypoxia (three to five breaths to 100% N2) in 11 normal men. Breath-by-breath inspiratory UAR was calculated at isoflow during exclusive nasal breathing. The UAR response to hypoxia was characterized by the changes in nasal resistance and pharyngeal resistance (PR) as a function of SaO2, mean inspiratory flow (VT/Tl), and changes in the end-expiratory lung volume (EELV) measured with an inductance vest. The ventilatory response to hypoxia was greater during T (-0.31 +/- 0.03 L/min/%SaO2; mean +/- SEM) than during P (-0.27 +/- 0.03 L/min/%SaO2, p = 0.05). UAR decreased as SaO2 decreased; this decrease was steeper during T than during P hypoxia (delta PR/%SaO2: 3.9 +/- 0.5 during P and 2.5 +/- 0.2 during T, p = 0.05). For the whole group, there was no difference in the slope of the decrease in UAR with increasing VT/Tl between the two hypoxic tests (delta PR/delta VT/Tl: -0.85 +/- 0.1 during P and -0.70 +/- 0.1 during T, p greater than 0.05). However, in four subjects, the slope of the relationship PR/VT/Tl during T remained steeper than during P. EELV increased as SaO2 decreased, with a greater increase during progressive than during transient hypoxia. 
High frequency of the Gaucher disease mutation at nucleotide 1226 among Ashkenazi Jews. Reliable estimates of the frequency of Gaucher disease-producing mutations are not available. The high frequency of Gaucher disease in the Ashkenazi Jewish population is due to the occurrence of a mutation at nucleotide (nt) 1226. We have screened 593 DNA samples from normal Ashkenazi Jews, as well as 62 DNA samples from all our Ashkenazi Jewish patients with Gaucher disease, for the presence of the 1226 mutation. In the 593 presumed normal Ashkenazi Jewish individuals the 1226 mutation was identified in the heterozygous state in 37 and in the homozygous state in two, giving a gene frequency of .035 for the mutation. This 1226 mutation represented 73% of the 124 Gaucher disease alleles in Jewish Gaucher disease patients. Accordingly we estimate that the gene frequency for Gaucher disease among the Ashkenazi Jewish population is .047, which is equivalent to a carrier frequency of 8.9% and a birth incidence of 1:450. 
Aortic-carotid artery pressure differences and cephalic perfusion pressure during cardiopulmonary resuscitation in humans. OBJECTIVE: Animal studies have shown an aortic-carotid artery pressure difference during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), which compromises cerebral perfusion. This pressure difference is most marked with prolonged CPR and can be abolished with administration of high doses of epinephrine. To better understand the mechanism of cerebral blood flow during CPR in humans, we determined the aortic-carotid artery pressure difference, the cephalic perfusion pressure (the carotid artery-jugular vein pressure difference), and thoracic inlet venous "valving" (the central venous-jugular vein pressure difference), while administering standard doses of epinephrine. DESIGN: Prospective study with randomization as to which side the carotid artery was catheterized. SETTING: The resuscitation room of a large urban hospital's emergency department. PATIENTS: Fifteen adults in normothermic, nontraumatic prehospital cardiac arrest treated according to Advanced Cardiac Life Support guidelines, including administration of 1 mg epinephrine iv every 5 mins. INTERVENTIONS: The descending aorta, cervical common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and central venous system were catheterized. Pressures were recorded during standard CPR for 5 mins after administration of 1 mg epinephrine iv. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Most patients received CPR for greater than 20 mins before the first epinephrine dose and for greater than 45 mins before pressure recording as described above. There was no significant difference between aortic and carotid artery compression and relaxation phase pressures. The mean +/- SD compression central venous-jugular vein pressure difference was 22.1 +/- 15.0 mm Hg, and the mean cephalic perfusion pressure was 20.8 +/- 19.5 mm Hg. CONCLUSIONS: There is no clinically important aortic-carotid artery pressure difference during human CPR using the standard dose of epinephrine, even with prolonged CPR. Despite carotid artery patency and thoracic inlet venous valving, the cephalic perfusion pressure is low during CPR in humans. 
Dutch general practice care for patients with epilepsy: results from the Dutch National Survey of Morbidity and Interventions. This study aimed to assess the share which Dutch general practice has in the care of patients with epilepsy. During a 3-month period 400,000 patient contacts in 103 general practices with a total list of 335,000 patients were registered, 1536 of these, concerning 1059 patients, concerned epilepsy. Contacts with patients with known epilepsy in Dutch General Practice were handled mainly by the practice nurse and most involved repeat prescriptions. Patients suspected of having epilepsy had more attention from the General Practitioner. The involvement of General Practitioners in the care of epilepsy was found to be small, but not unimportant. GPs are in a crucial position as regards the detection of epilepsy. They can enlarge their role in respect of patients with known epilepsy and improve continuity of care. 
Hemodynamic study during transdermal application of nitroglycerin tape in patients with cirrhosis. We studied 14 patients with portal hypertension and cirrhosis using portal and hepatic vein catheterizations to determine the effects of transdermal application of nitroglycerin tape (containing 10 mg of nitroglycerin and capable of releasing 6 to 7 mg of nitroglycerin in 12 hr) on splanchnic hemodynamics. Patients randomly received nitroglycerin (n = 7) or a placebo (n = 7). No significant changes were observed after the administration of the placebo. In contrast, transdermal nitroglycerin caused a significant reduction in portal pressure, as evaluated by measurements of the portal venous pressure gradient (-22%, p less than 0.01). The reduction of portal pressure was due to a decrease in the portal venous pressure, with no changes in the free hepatic venous pressure. Despite the fall in portal pressure, the hepatic blood flow was maintained. These findings suggest that transdermal nitroglycerin could be potentially useful in the treatment of portal hypertension associated with cirrhosis. 
Auer rod-like inclusions in circulating lymphoma cells. Circulating malignant lymphocytes from a 55-year-old woman with small cleaved follicular center cell lymphoma contained azurophilic splinter-shaped cytoplasmic inclusions. By light microscopic and ultrastructural criteria, these structures closely resembled Auer rods found in acute myeloid leukemia; however, the authors could not find cytochemical evidence of lysosomal origin (results were negative for myeloperoxidase, Sudan black B, acid phosphatase, and periodic acid-Schiff). Immunostaining and flow cytometric analysis confirmed a monoclonal IgM-kappa immunophenotype of the circulating malignant lymphoid cells. The inclusions did not show specific immunoglobulin staining by light microscopic or electron microscopic immunostaining techniques. The authors conclude that these membrane-bound inclusions probably represent aberrant lysosomes in the malignant cells. 
Cell cycle regulation of histone H1 kinase activity associated with the adenoviral protein E1A. Several cellular proteins form stable complexes with the proteins encoded by the adenovirus early region 1A (E1A) gene in extracts derived from adenovirus infected or transformed cells. Two of the cellular proteins that bind to E1A have been identified; one, a 105-kilodalton protein (pRb), is the product of the retinoblastoma gene, and the other, a 60-kilodalton protein, is a human cyclin A. Two other proteins that bind E1A have now been shown to be related to p34cdc2. This E1A complex displayed histone H1-specific kinase activity; the kinase activity was modulated during the cell division cycle, and association of pRb with E1A apparently was not required for this activity. 
Comparison of standard external CPR, open-chest CPR, and cardiopulmonary bypass in a canine myocardial infarct model. STUDY OBJECTIVES: After cardiac arrest, open-chest CPR (OCCPR) and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) have demonstrated higher resuscitation rates when compared individually with standard external CPR (SECPR). We compared all three techniques in a canine myocardial infarct ventricular fibrillation model. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-six mongrel dogs were block-randomized to receive SECPR and advanced life support (nine), CPB (nine), or OCCPR (eight). DESIGN AND INTERVENTIONS: All dogs received left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion followed by four minutes of ventricular fibrillation without CPR and eight minutes of Thumper CPR. At 12 minutes, dogs received one of three resuscitation techniques. After resuscitation, all animals received four hours of intensive care. Animals that were resuscitated had histochemical determination of ischemic and necrotic myocardial areas. MEASUREMENTS: Intravascular pressures were measured and coronary perfusion pressure was calculated during baseline, cardiac arrest, resuscitation, and postresuscitation periods. Percent necrotic myocardium, percent ischemic myocardium, and necrotic-to-ischemic ratios were determined for resuscitated animals. Epinephrine dosage and number of countershocks were determined for each group. MAIN RESULTS: Nine of nine CPB and six of nine OCCPR, compared with two of eight SECPR animals, were resuscitated (P less than .01). Three of nine CPB and OCCPR and two of eight SECPR dogs survived to four hours (P = NS). Coronary perfusion pressure two minutes after institution of technique was significantly higher with CPB (75 +/- 37 mm Hg) and OCCPR (56 +/- 31 mm Hg) than in SECPR animals (16 +/- 16 mm Hg, P less than .04). Epinephrine required for resuscitation was significantly less with CPB (0.10 +/- 0.02 mg/kg) than for SECPR (0.28 +/- 0.11 mg/kg, P less than .002). The ratio of necrotic to ischemic myocardium at four hours was significantly lower with CPB (0.15 +/- 0.31) and OCCPR (0.39 +/- 0.25) than for SECPR (1.16 +/- 0.31, P less than .02). CONCLUSION: OCCPR and CPB produce higher coronary perfusion pressures and improved resuscitation rates from ventricular fibrillation when compared with SECPR in this canine myocardial infarct cardiac arrest model. CPB and OCCPR yielded similar resuscitation results, although less epinephrine was required with CPB. 
Ultrasound detection of fetal aneuploidy in patients with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein. Increasing confidence in the ability of high-resolution ultrasound to detect neural tube and ventral wall defects has enabled us to offer a revised risk estimate to the patient with an elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP) level, such that amniocentesis may not be necessary. Recent authors have suggested that a reduced emphasis on follow-up amniocentesis fails to consider an increased risk for chromosomal anomalies in pregnancies with an elevated MSAFP, and that amniocentesis should still be performed. We reviewed our ultrasound findings from patients who underwent amniocentesis for evaluation of an elevated MSAFP and who had a karyotype prepared from the amniotic fluid sample. Four abnormal karyotypes were detected among 313 amniocenteses, and three of these were correctly predicted based on an abnormal ultrasound. The risk of an unexpected fetal aneuploidy after a normal consultative ultrasound in our series was one in 310. This is comparable to the risk of detecting abnormal chromosomes in the fetus of a 32-year-old woman, an age at which amniocentesis is not routinely offered. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma in Italian patients with cirrhosis BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Patients with cirrhosis of the liver are recognized as being at risk for hepatocellular carcinoma. The magnitude of the risk, the natural history of this disease, and the possibilities for detecting potentially curable tumors in patients in the Western world are unknown. To address these questions, we examined 447 Italian patients with well-compensated cirrhosis (which was of viral origin in 62 percent of them) from 1985 through 1990, performing serum alpha-fetoprotein assays and real-time ultrasonography every 3 to 12 months. RESULTS. Hepatocellular carcinoma was found in 30 patients (7 percent) at base line and in another 29 patients (7 percent of 417 patients free of tumor at base line) during follow-up periods averaging 33 months (range, 1 to 48). The cumulative hazard of the development of hepatocellular carcinoma during follow-up was higher among patients with persistently elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein levels (12 with tumors among 42 with such levels) than among those with fluctuating levels (11 among 82) or those with consistently normal levels (6 among 255). Only 17 patients had potentially operable tumors. The proportion of potentially operable tumors among those detected during follow-up was significantly lower than the proportion at enrollment (4 of 29 vs. 13 of 30, P = 0.027). The survival at one year of the 12 patients who underwent surgery was 67 percent, and the tumor-recurrence rate was 60 percent. Outcome was not appreciably different for the five patients who refused surgery. CONCLUSIONS. In the West, as in Asia, patients with cirrhosis of the liver are at substantial risk for hepatocellular carcinoma, with a yearly incidence rate of 3 percent. Our screening program did not appreciably increase the rate of detection of potentially curable tumors. 
Isolated muscle hypertrophy as a sign of radicular or peripheral nerve injury. Two patients with isolated neurogenic hypertrophy of the trapezius muscle due to accessory nerve injury and a patient with neurogenic hypertrophy of the anterior tibial muscle due to chronic radicular lesion L4 are described. Electromyography of the affected muscles showed dense continuing spontaneous discharges of complex potentials. Muscle biopsy performed in two patients showed abundant hypertrophic muscle fibres, identified in one case by ATP-ase reaction as being of predominantly type I. In the majority of previously reported patients with neurogenic muscle hypertrophy confined to the calf muscle, a passive stretch mechanism was suggested as a cause of the hypertrophy. It is assumed that the excessive spontaneous muscle activity gave rise to the hypertrophy in these patients. This may also be true in previously reported patients with neurogenic hypertrophy and similar spontaneous activity in electromyography. 
Management of panfacial fractures. Panfacial injuries are those that involve trauma to the lower, middle, and upper facial bones. They often are accompanied by multisystem- or polytrauma and require a team approach for management. Although stabilization of the overall status of the patient takes precedence, early and total restoration of facial form and function should be the goal of the maxillofacial surgeon. 
Ralitoline: a reevaluation of anticonvulsant profile and determination of "active" plasma concentrations in comparison with prototype antiepileptic drugs in mice. Ralitoline (RLT) is a new thiazolidinone derivative with potent anticonvulsant activity in different seizure models. During Phase I studies, RLT was well tolerated in human volunteers and showed linear pharmacokinetics in the dose range tested (up to 150 mg). Since RLT will soon be entering clinical Phase II studies, we were interested in obtaining predictive data for effective plasma concentrations in patients. For this purpose, the anticonvulsant potency of RLT was determined in four seizure models in mice, and plasma levels were measured at time of peak drug effect. The four models were the threshold for maximal (tonic extension) electroshock seizures (MES), the threshold for clonic seizures determined by i.v. infusion of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), the traditional MES test with supramaximal (50 mA) stimulation, and generalized clonic seizures induced by s.c. administration of PTZ. Furthermore, median minimal "neurotoxic" doses (TD50s) were determined by the rotorod and chimney test for calculation of protective indices. All data obtained for RLT were compared with data obtained with standard antiepileptic drugs: phenobarbital, phenytoin, valproate, and diazepam. The onset of anticonvulsant action after i.p. injection of RLT was very rapid, and the peak drug effect was already obtained after 2 min. In the MES models, RLT was the most potent compound. "Active" plasma levels ranged from approximately 300 ng/ml in the MES threshold test to approximately 1,300 ng/ml in the MES test. RLT was also capable of increasing the PTZ threshold, whereas, possibly because of its short duration of action in mice, it was not very active in the s.c. PTZ seizure test. 
The prognostic value of endotracheal tube-air leak following tracheal surgery in children. In an effort to determine if the endotracheal tube-leak pressure has prognostic value in relation to a successful outcome after one-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction or cricoid split surgery, a retrospective analysis was performed on 17 children who had undergone such surgery. The daily leak pressures, length of intubation, and ultimate outcome of attempts at extubation were noted. One hundred percent of patients with a leak pressure of less than 20 cm H2O on the day before extubation were successfully extubated. In contrast, the failure rate was 100% in children extubated with a leak of greater than 30 mm H2O. The difference between these two groups was statistically significant (chi 2, 13.03). Sixty percent of patients with leak pressures in the range of 21 to 30 cm H2O were successfully extubated. The endotracheal tube-leak pressure is a parameter that has prognostic value, and should be considered in determining when to extubate children who have undergone tracheal reconstructive surgery. 
Interaction of baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflex control of sympathetic nerve activity in normal humans. Animal studies have demonstrated that activation of the baroreflex by increases in arterial pressure inhibits cardiovascular and ventilatory responses to activation of peripheral chemoreceptors (PC) with hypoxia. In this study, we examined the influences of baroreflex activation on the sympathetic response to stimulation of PC and central chemoreceptors in humans. PC were stimulated by hypoxia (10% O2/90% N2) (n = 6) and central chemoreceptors by hypercapnia (7% CO2/93% O2) (n = 6). Responses to a cold pressor stimulus were also obtained as an internal reflex control to determine the selectivity of the interactive influence of baroreflex activation. Baroreflex activation was achieved by raising mean blood pressure by greater than 10 mmHg with intravenous infusion of phenylephrine (PE). Sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) to muscle was recorded from a peroneal nerve (microneurography). During hypoxia alone, SNA increased from 255 +/- 92 to 354 +/- 107 U/min (P less than 0.05). During PE alone, mean blood pressure increased and SNA decreased to 87 +/- 45 U/min (P less than 0.05). With hypoxia during baroreflex activation with PE, SNA did not increase (50 +/- 23 U/min). During hypercapnia alone, SNA increased from 116 +/- 39 to 234 +/- 72 U/min (P less than 0.01). Hypercapnia during baroreflex activation with PE increased SNA from 32 +/- 25 U/min during PE alone to 61 +/- 26 U/min during hypercapnia and PE (P less than 0.05). Like hypercapnia (but unlike hypoxia) the cold pressor test also increased SNA during PE. We conclude that baroreflex activation selectively abolishes the SNA response to hypoxia but not to hypercapnia or the cold pressor test. The inhibitory interaction of the baroreflex and the peripheral chemoreflex may be explained by convergence of baroreceptor and peripheral chemoreceptor afferents on neurons in the medulla. 
Osteochondrodysplasia in Fryns syndrome. Various skeletal abnormalities have been identified in roentgenograms of persons with Fryns syndrome, but to our knowledge, no histopathologic description of bone or cartilage has been published. We describe disordered endochondral and intramembranous bone formation in a premature female infant with Fryns syndrome. This infant and a full sibling (ie, had same set of parents) with Fryns syndrome in addition exhibited delayed ossification of the basiocciput and of cervical vertebral bodies, also previously undescribed in Fryns syndrome. These findings expand the spectrum of Fryns syndrome to include osteochondrodysplasia. 
Pylorus and antroseromuscular flap-preserving gastrectomy--a new type of reconstruction after subtotal gastrectomy for treatment of gastroduodenal ulcer: clinical and experimental study. To avoid motility disturbances after Billroth gastrectomy, the authors designed pylorus and antroseromuscular flap-preserving subtotal gastrectomy (PAFPG). Results showed that gastric motility and emptying time of dogs after PAFPG were close to normal. PAFPG was applied to 125 consecutive patients with gastroduodenal ulcers (gastric ulcer, 15 patients; duodenal ulcer, 94 patients; and combined ulcers, 16 patients) confirmed by barium examination and fibro-gastroendoscopy. All patients recovered smoothly, none of them had postoperative complication. Gastric acid output reduction rates were as follows: basal acid output, 85.05% +/- 8.13%; maximal acid output, 81.76% +/- 10.85%; peak acid output, 81.42% +/- 10.15%. The incidence of postoperative enterogastric reflux (endoscopically) and the concentration of cholic acids in gastric juice were significantly lower in patients after PAFPG than after Billroth I or II gastrectomy. Results suggest that PAFPG reduced gastric acid outputs definitely and overcame adverse motility consequences after Billroth I or II gastrectomy desirably. 
Astrocytoma and associated arteriovenous malformation. A case is reported of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation occurring in continuity with an astrocytoma. Possible etiologies of this unusual association are discussed. 
Clinical management of patients receiving thrombolytic therapy. Rapid delivery of thrombolytic therapy to suitable patients with acute myocardial infarction can limit myocardial damage and reduce the risk of death. This requires an emergency department team approach following a written protocol to initiate thrombolytic therapy within 45 minutes of the patient's arrival at the emergency department. Nurses and physicians caring for patients with acute myocardial infarction must be aware of inclusion and exclusion criteria, drug preparation, dosage and administration, recommended adjunctive therapies, and potential complications associated with pharmacologic thrombolysis. All patients with acute myocardial infarction should be carefully screened for their potential for receiving thrombolytic therapy with a favorable benefit/risk ratio. 
Management of patients with facial trauma and associated ocular/orbital injuries. Ocular injury can be associated with facial fractures in a significant percentage of cases. It is mandatory for surgeons treating such fractures to be familiar with the types of orbital injuries, the appropriate physical examination and diagnostic tests, and the management techniques involved in treating traumatic visual loss. This article reviews the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to this important problem. 
Sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias following coronary artery bypass surgery comparing mammary versus saphenous vein grafts. This retrospective study was designed to determine the incidence of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (SVTs) in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with internal mammary artery (IMA) grafts, Group A, compared with those with saphenous vein grafts (SVG), Group B. Among 569 consecutive patients who underwent CABG surgery in the same institution, a total of 80 cases from Group A and 80 cases from Group B were selected for this study after application of exclusion criteria. Excluded from this study were the following: patients with preexisting or prior history of SVTs, significant left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction less than 40%), postoperative myocardial infarction, drug toxicity or electrolyte imbalance, and advanced chronic obstructive lung disease. Group A consisted of 63 men and 17 women and Group B consisted of 52 men and 28 women. All patients were monitored either in ICU or by telemetry for a period of three to six days after surgery and all had a predischarge 12-lead electrocardiogram. Both groups were fairly comparable in most of their clinical profile and number of grafts. The incidence of SVTs in Group A was 31% (25 of 80 patients) and in Group B was 24% (19 of 80 patients). Furthermore, the incidence of postoperative pericarditis was noted in 35% (28 of 80 patients) of Group A and in 19% (15 of 80 patients) in Group B. The authors conclude that male tobacco smokers of Group A tended to have a significantly higher incidence of postoperative pericarditis with a higher trend for postoperative SVTs than patients from Group B. 
Stress and alcohol interaction: an update of human research. The literature on alcohol and stress in human subjects carried out since 1981 is reviewed. The review covers selected aspects of the interaction of alcohol and stress. (1) Most of the review focuses on the role of stress on alcohol ingestion. Retrospective research based on data from the Health and Nutrition Examination Survey indicated an increase in alcohol consumption with anxiety in certain groups of, as yet not well characterized, individuals. For example, although still insufficiently documented, stress does not appear to play a significant role in alcohol ingestion by women and the elderly. By contrast, stress does appear to play a role in the control of alcohol ingestion by adolescents. Prospective studies employing questionnaire-interview formats generally support an effect of stress on alcohol ingestion. However, studies employing male college aged social drinkers did not find a correlation between levels of stress and ingestion of alcohol. Alcoholics also differ in the reasons for drinking alcohol, but generally ingest alcohol to lessen anxiety/stress. It is clear that the Tension Reduction Hypothesis as originally postulated is no longer adequate. Many new models based on an interaction of alcohol and stress have been proposed to explain the control of alcohol consumption. Considering the multidimensionality of factors that appear to contribute to the control of alcohol ingestion, it is unlikely that a single model could possibly be relevant to alcohol ingestion under all conditions. More likely different models may be relevant to alcohol consumption under specific conditions, or for specific populations. (2) Alcohol has been reported to decrease anxiety in agoraphobics. The self-medication by agoraphobics may contribute significantly to their alcohol abuse. (3) Alcohol has also been reported to decrease tremor of the hands in stressed subjects as well as in patients with essential tremor. (4) Although a number of studies have employed electrodermal activity in studies aimed at the interaction of alcohol and stress, the results have been rather inconsistent. (5) The controversy on the purported beneficial effect of alcohol on the cardiovascular system persists. A number of studies have shown a J- or U-shaped relationship between alcohol ingestion and incidence of coronary heart disease. Alcohol may also influence stress-induced changes in blood pressure. Although a number of studies have demonstrated lower blood pressure in individuals ingesting less than two drinks per day compared with abstainers or heavy alcohol imbibers, the evidence is not conclusive. (6) It is not clear whether the interaction of alcohol and stress involves alterations in plasma catecholamines. 
The role of plasminogen activator in adhesion prevention. The reduction in peritoneal plasminogen activator activity (believed to be the pathogenic mechanism of adhesion formation) and its replacement with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) have been investigated in the prevention of initial (primary) and recurrent adhesion production. Other, potentially harmful, effects of intra-abdominal rt-PA application have also been examined. This included effects on wound and colonic healing and hemostasis. The prevention of adhesion formation was studied in primary and recurrent adhesion formation using a rabbit model. Primary adhesions formed in one of 14 occasions (7 per cent) with rt-PA compared with 12 of 15 occasions (80 per cent) with placebo (chi-square equals 15.542, p less than 0.001). Recurrent adhesions formed on two of 27 occasions (7 per cent) with rt-PA compared with 22 of 28 occasions with placebo (79 per cent) and 12 of 12 occasions with control rabbits (100 per cent, chi-square equals 40.588, p less than 0.0001). The application of rt-PA to abdominal wounds in the rabbit failed to show any reduction in wound strength at four, seven and ten days. Colonic anastomotic healing was unaltered by rt-PA at three, five and seven days. There was no difference seen in hemorrhagic events between control, placebo or rt-PA rabbits at any stage. The use of rt-PA is an exciting development in the field of adhesion prevention; it is an effective inhibitor of adhesion formation and intra-abdominal administration appears safe in a rabbit model. 
Synchronous primary mucosal melanoma and mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the maxillary antrum. We present a case of contiguous primary malignant melanoma of the nose and maxillary antrum and mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the maxillary antrum. We believe that this association has not been previously recorded; whether this represents divergent differentiation in a single tumour or 'collision' of two separate tumours is uncertain. 
Variation in intravaginal pressure measurements. The wide variation in intravaginal pressure measurements of the circumvaginal muscles (CVM) was studied in five subjects under well-controlled conditions. Previous research and clinical observations have indicated that fluctuations in the measurement of intravaginal pressure may be associated with time of day, day of testing, and existing stress factors. Subjects were assessed four times per day, on four consecutive days, for a total of 16 assessments. At each of the 16 conditions for a given subject, 10 CVM contractions lasting 12 seconds each were recorded and the variables, maximum pressure (MP10), peak maximum pressure (PMP), and abdominal pressure were analyzed. The within-subject variance was 15.5 (SD = 3.9); the between-subject variance was 132.4 (SD = 11.5). The effects of day, time, and stressor were analyzed by ANOVA specifically designed for variance estimates; no significant differences were found. The clinical observations that led to the study were not supported when systematically investigated. However, consistent data collection procedures appeared to reduce within-subject variance. 
Extracranial vertebral artery dissection following tonic clonic seizure. A 34 year old woman developed cerebral infarction, following a tonic-clonic seizure. A vertebral artery dissection was demonstrated and may have been caused by arterial trauma during the seizure. This cause of morbidity following convulsive seizures may have been overlooked in the past and needs to be recognised in view of the potential benefits of anticoagulation. 
A prospective study of parental history of myocardial infarction and coronary artery disease in men. The relation between parental history of myocardial infarction (MI) and risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) was prospectively examined among 45,317 U.S. male health professionals who were free of diagnosed CAD, 40 to 75 years of age in 1986 and followed for 2 years. These men provided details of parental history of MI, including their parents' age at the first event, their personal history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes mellitus, and a detailed dietary assessment completed at baseline. During 72,454 person-years of follow-up, 181 non-fatal MIs were documented, 49 men died from MI or sudden death, and 140 underwent coronary artery surgery or angioplasty. Compared with men without any history of parental MI, those whose mothers or fathers had had an MI at less than 70 years of age had a substantially elevated risk of MI (relative risk = 2.2, 95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 3.8 for maternal history; relative risk = 1.7, 95% confidence interval 1.2 to 2.3 for paternal history). Risk of MI increased with decreasing age at parental MI. Paternal but not maternal history of MI was related to increased risk of coronary artery surgery. These associations were not appreciably altered by controlling for diet or established risk factors, either individually or in multivariate models. These prospective data indicate that a history of MI in either parent is associated with an increased risk of CAD among men. 
Comparison of the effects of torasemide and furosemide in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients with ascites: a randomized, double-blind study. In a randomized double-blind trial we compared the effects of torasemide, a new loop diuretic, and furosemide in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients with ascites during a 3-day period in association with potassium canrenoate (200 mg/day) administration. Doses of loop diuretics administered in this trial (10 and 25 mg/day of torasemide and furosemide, respectively) had been shown to be equipotent in healthy subjects. Torasemide induced significantly greater natriuresis than furosemide (p less than 0.02), with a twofold greater percentage increase in basal values (day 1: 130% vs. 50%; day 2: 104% vs. 42%; and day 3: 65% vs. 26%, respectively). Body weight loss was significantly higher during torasemide (p less than 0.02) administration, and the overall decrease at the end of the treatment was twice as high for furosemide (2.5 +/- 0.6 kg vs. 1.3 +/- 0.4 kg, respectively). Diuresis was also higher during torasemide administration, but the difference was not significant (p = 0.08). The extent of kaliuresis observed during the two treatments was almost identical despite the striking differences in the natriuretic response. The effects of the two treatments on plasma electrolytes, creatinine clearance, blood urea nitrogen, mean arterial pressure, heart rate and plasma arginine vasopressin concentration were similar. Both drugs caused increases in plasma renin activity at the end of the treatment, whereas plasma aldosterone concentration slightly increased only after torasemide administration. Despite the presence of a trend toward a more pronounced effect on these parameters after torasemide administration, no significant difference between the two treatments was observed. 
Neurophysiological observations on the effects of botulinum toxin treatment in patients with dystonic blepharospasm. Botulinum toxin treatment improves dystonic blepharospasm by inducing transient paresis of the orbicularis oculi muscle. It is not known if it also reduces the enhanced brainstem neuronal excitability found in this disorder. We have performed conventional electromyography (EMG) and blink reflex excitability studies on fifteen patients with blepharospasm before and after botulinum toxin treatment. Denervation signs were found with needle EMG in all treated muscles. Amplitude of the facial compound muscle action potential (CMAP) and R1 response was reduced after botulinum toxin injections. In blink reflex excitability studies, the recovery of R2 response was enhanced after treatment even when patients were tested at the time of maximal benefit from botulinum toxin injections. The results suggest that there is little influence of botulinum toxin treatment upon the enhanced excitability of brainstem interneurons in patients with blepharospasm. 
Clinical stage I nonseminomatous germ cell tumors of testis. Observation vs retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. Between 1980 and 1989, 186 patients with testicular tumors were seen at Roswell Park Memorial Institute. Of these, 66.6 percent (124/186) were diagnosed to have nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (NSGT) and 22 percent (41/186) were clinically determined to have Stage I disease. Patients with clinical Stage I NSGT either underwent observation or retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND). Recurrence in the observation group of patients was 23.5 percent (4/17) between four and eighteen months (mean 10 months) with the retroperitoneum being the most common site. All but 1 patient (80%) were salvaged with platinum-based combination chemotherapy. Of the 24 patients who had RPLND, 21 percent (5/24) had a false-negative metastatic evaluation. All the patients who had surgically documented metastatic disease were successfully treated with chemotherapy. The similar recurrence rates in the observation group and the false-negative RPLND group suggest that the failure rate in the observation group is a result of the inability to stage accurately patients with NSGT. RPLND continues to be the standard therapy in patients with clinical Stage I disease. Despite its high recurrence rate, observation should, however, be offered to well-motivated and selected patients since salvage platinum-based combination chemotherapy is very effective and the majority of patients in this group are spared a major operative procedure. 
Cure of early-stage Hodgkin's disease with subtotal nodal irradiation. Ninety-four consecutive patients with Stage I or II Hodgkin's disease who presented supradiaphragmatically were treated with radiation therapy alone at the Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology from January 1978 through December 1986. Fifty-two patients (55%) were staged pathologically, and 42 (45%) were staged clinically. The latter included lymphangiography and/or abdominal computed tomographic scan. Most patients with B symptoms and/or bulky disease were excluded from this series. Seventy-four patients were treated with subtotal nodal irradiation (mantle and periaortic fields). The spleen was treated if the patient had not undergone splenectomy. Twenty patients received mantle irradiation only. No patient received total nodal irradiation. All patients had an initial complete response. With a minimum follow-up of 7 months (median, 7.7 years; seven patients died before 3 years of follow-up, but all other patients had at least 3 years of follow-up), 81 patients (86%) remained disease-free. Six of 52 (12%) of the pathologically staged group had a relapse, as did seven of 42 (17%) of the clinically staged group (P = 0.68). Eight of 57 Stage I patients versus five of 37 Stage II patients had a relapse (P greater than 0.99). Analysis of disease-free survival by age, histologic findings, sex, and sites of involvement did not predict relapse. The pelvis was the most common site of failure (nine patients, 10%). However, only three patients (3%) failed in the pelvis alone. These results indicate that patients who, after adequate clinical staging with selective use of staging laparotomy, are found to have Stage I and II Hodgkin's disease may be treated with subtotal nodal irradiation with a high rate of cure. 
Concurrent nitroglycerin administration decreases thrombolytic potential of tissue-type plasminogen activator. Dynamic coronary vasoconstriction may play a role in coronary artery reocclusion after successful thrombolysis. The effect of nitroglycerin on the thrombolytic effects of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was examined in dogs with an electrically induced occlusive coronary artery thrombus. Eleven dogs were randomly given rt-PA alone and seven rt-PA with nitroglycerin. The dose of rt-PA was 0.75 mg/kg body weight given over 20 min and the dose of nitroglycerin was 125 micrograms/min for 40 min. The reperfusion rate in the dogs given rt-PA alone was 73% (8 of 11 dogs) and that in the rt-PA plus nitroglycerin group was 57% (four of seven dogs) (p = NS). The time to thrombolysis (or reperfusion) in dogs receiving rt-PA plus nitroglycerin was 70% greater than in those receiving rt-PA alone (means +/- SD/29.8 +/- 9.9 versus 17.6 +/- 5.9 min, p less than 0.02), and the duration of reperfusion much shorter (11 +/- 17 versus 42 +/- 16 min, p less than 0.02). Peak coronary blood flow after reperfusion in dogs receiving rt-PA plus nitroglycerin was also less than in those receiving rt-PA alone (36 +/- 52 versus 63 +/- 20 ml/min, p less than 0.02). Reocclusion occurred in all dogs given rt-PA with nitroglycerin and in six of eight given rt-PA alone (p = NS). Plasma concentrations of rt-PA were lower when nitroglycerin was given with rt-PA alone (427 +/- 279 versus 1,471 +/- 600 ng/ml, p less than 0.01). 
Destructive lesions in demyelinating disease. Three cases are presented in which clinical and radiological features suggested the diagnosis of glioma but surgical biopsy revealed a demyelinating process, with tissue destruction and cyst formation in two. One patient had clinically definite multiple sclerosis. Two had probable acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. Treatment with high dose steroids is appropriate when there is clinical or investigative evidence to suggest the presence of demyelinating disease, before deciding on biopsy. 
Mortality, cardiovascular risk factors, and diet in China, Finland, and the United States. Mortality, cardiovascular risk factors, and diet were compared in Tianjin province, People's Republic of China; in North Karelia Province, Finland; and in the United States as a whole. People in Tianjin received 7 percent of their energy intake from saturated fats, whereas people in the United States received 13 percent and those in North Karelia received 20. The mean blood cholesterol levels for men were 158 milligrams per deciliter (mg per dl) for Tianjin, 216 mg per dl for the United States, and 241 mg per dl for North Karelia. The smoking prevalence among men was highest in Tianjin (66 percent), followed by the United States (42 percent) and Finland (36 percent). The differences among mortality rates for the three locales were less pronounced among women than among men. Age-standardized total mortality for women was highest for Tianjin and lowest in North Karelia. The reverse was true for men. Age-standardized total mortality for men was lowest in Tianjin and highest in North Karelia. Age-standardized ischemic heart disease mortality for men was lowest in Tianjin (99 per 100,000) and highest in North Karelia (730 per 100,000). For women, the corresponding figures were 83 per 100,000 in Tianjin and 164 per 100,000 in North Karelia. Although salt intake was higher in Tianjin than in North Karelia, the blood pressure was on average lower in persons from Tianjin than in those from North Karelia. The stroke mortality rate in Tianjin, however, was much higher than in either Finland or the United States. 
Intraoperative facial nerve monitoring: prognostic aspects during acoustic tumor removal. Intraoperative facial nerve monitoring with electrical stimulation (IFNMES) has become an integral part of acoustic tumor surgery. We reviewed the records of fifty-six patients who underwent translabyrinthine acoustic tumor removal with IFNMES. There was excellent correlation between intraoperative facial nerve activity and immediate postoperative facial nerve function (24 hours after surgery and at hospital discharge). Our data would suggest that patients who exhibit less than 500 microvolts of ongoing EMG activity during surgery, and who yield at least a 500-microvolt contraction when stimulated with 0.05 milliamps at the brainstem after tumor removal, can expect an excellent immediate facial nerve result (grade I or II). 
An animal model for colon cancer metastatic cell line with enhanced metastasizing ability. Establishment and characterization. We have developed an animal model for colon cancer metastasis and produced a metastasizing tumor after using a microinjection technique to inject SW480 cells into the cecal wall of athymic nude mice during "minilaparotomy." After the metastatic foci formed in murine lung, an in vitro primary culture was performed and a new metastatic cancer cell line, which was designated as CC-ML3, was established. The studies included: 1) the comparison between SW 480 and CC-ML3 in morphology, growth kinetics, seeding and plating efficiency, and karyotype; and 2) carcino-embryonic antigen determination, origination, and metastatic ability of CC-ML3. The results showed that CC-ML3 was significantly different from SW480 in vitro and possessed a high metastatic potential in vivo. This newly developed animal model may thus be useful for studying the biology and pathogenesis of metastasis of human colonic cancer. 
Differential effects of atrial natriuretic peptide and dopamine on urinary protein excretion in chronic glomerulonephritis. 1. To examine whether or not atrial natriuretic peptide-induced proteinuria simply results from increases in urine flow or glomerular filtration rate, we infused dopamine (1 microgram min-1 kg-1) and alpha-human atrial natriuretic peptide (0.025 microgram min-1 kg-1) into nine patients with chronic glomerulonephritis and nine essential hypertensive patients without renal damage, and compared the effects of the two agents on renal function and urinary protein excretion. 2. In patients with chronic glomerulonephritis, dopamine infusion significantly increased urinary sodium excretion (+59%), renal blood flow (+20%) and creatinine clearance (+14%). However, urinary protein excretion was not changed. Addition of atrial natriuretic peptide to the dopamine infusion further increased urinary sodium excretion and maintained creatinine clearance at the same level. In contrast to the infusion of dopamine alone, atrial natriuretic peptide markedly increased urinary protein excretion (77 versus 229 mg min-1 m2, P less than 0.02). Furthermore, the addition of atrial natriuretic peptide elevated the urinary protein/creatinine ratio (1.55 versus 5.35, P less than 0.05), while dopamine alone did not (1.55 versus 1.45, not significant). 3. In essential hypertensive patients, dopamine and dopamine plus ANP showed renal effects similar to those of chronic glomerulonephritis; however, the urinary excretion of protein was not changed significantly. 4. These results suggest that atrial natriuretic peptide may increase urinary protein excretion mainly by increasing the permeability of the damaged glomeruli to protein rather than by simply increasing urine flow or glomerular filtration. Possible mechanisms underlying the proteinuria-increasing effects of atrial natriuretic peptide are discussed. 
Transabdominal and transvaginal sonography of ovarian masses. This chapter outlined the sonographic appearances of most ovarian tumors using both transabdominal and transvaginal sonography. The use of transabdominal and transvaginal sonography for the early detection of ovarian carcinoma seems promising and should be pursued in several institutions as clinical trials. 
Long-term health risks and benefits of oral contraceptive use. The contraceptive effect of oral contraceptive use provides an important health benefit, particularly in developing countries, where the risks of pregnancy and childbearing are increased. Several important noncontraceptive health benefits of oral contraceptive use include the prevention of endometrial and ovarian cancers. Data are generally reassuring concerning the risks of oral contraceptive use, which include cardiovascular disease and breast and cervical cancer. 
Malignant potential of the cryptorchid testis. A follow-up study of 224 male patients from Rochester, Minnesota, diagnosed with cryptorchidism during the period from 1935 through 1974 was conducted to assess the frequency of subsequent testicular neoplasms. Age-specific rates for testicular neoplasm in this community were used to estimate an expected number for comparison with that observed. Two malignant testicular neoplasms have occurred in this cohort; thus, the standardized morbidity ratio was 11.4 (95% confidence interval, 1.4 to 41.1). Of the 158 patients born in the community, 11% were known to have birth weights of less than 2,500 g, approximately twice the expected occurrence. Increased risks were also noted for inguinal hernia, hypospadias, Down's syndrome, cleft lip or palate (or both), clubfoot, and congenital heart disease, for which the standardized morbidity ratios were 3.6, 4.7, 17.8, 11.3, 11.7, and 2.7, respectively. The increased risk for malignant neoplasms observed in this cohort of patients with cryptorchidism is consistent with that found in earlier studies. 
Endoscopic transthoracic electrocautery of the sympathetic chain for palmar and axillary hyperhidrosis Endoscopic transthoracic electrocautery of the sympathetic chain has been the preferred treatment for palmar or axillary hyperhidrosis in this unit since 1980. A retrospective study was carried out of the first 112 patients with case material derived from a postal questionnaire, chart review and outpatient assessment. Eighty-five patients undergoing bilateral transthoracic electrocautery who replied to the questionnaire (76 per cent response rate) form the basis of this study. There were 65 females and 20 males with a mean age of 24.3 years (range 15-40 years). The hands alone were affected in 20 patients (24 per cent), the axillae alone in 17 (20 per cent) and both areas in 48 (56 per cent). Mean hospital stay was 3.1 days (range 1-7 days). Outcome was assessed by 92 per cent of patients immediately after operation as 'very much improved' or 'moderately improved', and this assessment persisted in 85 per cent after a mean follow-up of 43 months (range 3-95 months). Cosmetic results were rated as satisfactory by 95 per cent. Apart from pain after operation, morbidity was limited to transient Horner's syndrome in three patients, surgical emphysema in three, and pneumothorax requiring a chest drain in one. A repeat procedure was needed in one patient because of an inadequate first operation. Some compensatory hyperhidrosis occurred in 54 (64 per cent) patients. As a minimally invasive procedure, endoscopic transthoracic electrocautery should be considered the treatment of choice for palmar and axillary hyperhidrosis. 
Rare presentation of a parapharyngeal schwannoma. Schwannoma, or neurilemmoma, is included in the differential diagnosis of masses in the parapharyngeal space. Schwannomata do not usually cause acute inflammation, and therefore do not tend to present as emergencies as in this case, in which there was acute respiratory embarrassment. 
Primary malignant melanoma of male urethra. A case of primary malignant melanoma of the male urethra is reported. Treatment included partial urethrectomy, bilateral inguinal and iliac lymphadenectomy, and post-surgical systemic chemotherapy. After thirty-six months, the patient is alive with cutaneous, pelvic lymph node, and gastric metastases. 
Parental sex effect in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Since a parental sex effect has been reported in Huntington's disease, we looked to see whether a similar effect is apparent in adult (autosomal dominant) familial ALS. We analyzed the data for 145 patients, with an onset age range of 20 to 68 years and a known affected parent (AP), from 52 families described in the literature. There was a significant increase in the percentage of patients inheriting the gene from an affected mother as a function of the age at onset. There was also a significant correlation between AP and offspring age at onset only when the AP was the mother. 
Carotid endarterectomy in elderly patients Between 1971 and 1989, 749 carotid endarterectomies were performed at our institution for symptomatic carotid occlusive disease in patients older than 70 years of age. Of these procedures, 693 were done in patients 71 through 80 years of age, and 56 were done in patients between the ages of 81 and 90 years. The neurologic morbidity and perioperative mortality in the former group were 2.9% and 1.4%, respectively, whereas in the latter group the corresponding values were 5.4% and 0%, respectively. For the entire group, the neurologic morbidity was 3.1% and the mortality was 1.3%. Of the 23 new postoperative neurologic deficits, 19 (83%) occurred in high-risk patients with severe preoperative neurologic or medical risks, and 14 (61%) of these deficits were minor. In selected elderly patients with symptomatic hemodynamically significant carotid occlusive disease, endarterectomy seems to be a safe procedure that is associated with acceptably low perioperative morbidity and mortality. 
Resting energy expenditure in patients with newly detected gastric and colorectal cancers. Resting energy expenditure (REE) was measured in 104 patients with newly detected gastric or colorectal (GCR) cancer and was compared with two groups of control subjects without cancer: healthy subjects (H control subjects) and patients with nonmalignant diseases of the gastrointestinal tract (GI patients). REE in GCR-cancer patients was not significantly different from REE in GI patients or H control subjects. Comparison of measured REE with predicted REE obtained from prediction equations may erroneously suggest that increased REE is a contributing factor in the development of cancer cachexia. No significant differences in REE were found when patients with liver metastases were compared with patients without metastases. There were no differences in REE between gastric and colorectal cancer patients. The decrease in energy expenditure, which normally occurs during starvation and weight loss in healthy men and women, could not be demonstrated in weight-losing, GCR-cancer patients. In conclusion, elevation of REE contributes little to the pathogenesis of cancer cachexia in GCR-cancer patients. 
Events in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST): mortality in the entire population enrolled [published erratum appears in J Am Coll Cardiol 1991 Sep;18(3):888] To test the hypothesis that suppression of ventricular arrhythmias by antiarrhythmic drugs after myocardial infarction improves survival, the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) was initiated. Suppression was evaluated before randomization during an open label titration period. Patients whose arrhythmias were suppressed were randomized in the main study and those whose arrhythmias were partially suppressed were randomized in a substudy. Overall survival and survival free of arrhythmic death or cardiac arrest were lower [corrected] in patients treated with encainide or flecainide than in patients treated with placebo. However, the death rate in patients randomized to placebo therapy was lower than expected. This report describes the survival experience of all patients enrolled in CAST and compares it with mortality in other studies of patients with ventricular arrhythmias after myocardial infarction. As of April 18, 1989, 2,371 patients had enrolled in CAST and entered prerandomization, open label titration: 1,913 (81%) were randomized to double-blind, placebo-controlled therapy (1,775 patients whose arrhythmias were suppressed and 138 patients whose arrhythmias were partially suppressed during open label titration); and 458 patients (19%) were not randomized because they were still in titration, had died during titration or had withdrawn. Including all patients who enrolled in CAST, the actuarial (Kaplan-Meier) estimate of 1-year mortality was 10.3%. To estimate the "natural" mortality rate of patients enrolled in CAST, an analysis was done that adjusted for deaths that might be attributable to encainide or flecainide treatment either during prerandomization, open label drug titration or after randomization. Because the censoring procedure excluded patients treated with encainide or flecainide after randomization, the mortality estimate will be less than the unadjusted mortality estimate of 10.3%. 
Acute lung injury following reperfusion after ischemia in the hind limbs of rats. In this study, we proposed that oxygen free radicals participate in the acute pulmonary injury that follows limb ischemia/reperfusion. Using an established model of hind limb ischemia, reproducible lung injury occurred after reperfusion. Lung microvascular permeability was measured with 125I-BSA and increased two-fold after 30 minutes of reperfusion. Pulmonary injury was blocked with DMSO, DMTU, allopurinol, indomethacin, and SOD plus catalase. The degree of pulmonary neutrophil sequestration as assessed by tissue myeloperoxidase activity was significantly diminished in animals pretreated with antioxidants. Pretreatment with indomethacin did not attenuate the neutrophil sequestration within the pulmonary parenchyma. These data suggest that increased lung microvascular permeability and neutrophil accumulation occur following hind limb ischemia/reperfusion. Therapeutic interventions with oxygen radical inhibitors blocked this process, while the prostaglandin inhibitor, indomethacin, only reduced lung permeability. 
Antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antigens: serologic marker for Sweet's syndrome. Seven patients with a clinical and histologic diagnosis of Sweet's syndrome were tested for the presence of circulating antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies. Six of the seven patients had detectable antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies at a serum dilution of at least 1:20. Antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies were not found in serum from patients with a range of cutaneous diseases, some known to cause clinical or histologic confusion with Sweet's syndrome. The detection of circulating antibodies to the neutrophil cytoplasm may be of possible diagnostic value in Sweet's syndrome. 
Effects of postural changes versus exercise on the electrophysiologic parameters of the accessory pathway. The electrophysiologic profile of the accessory pathway was studied in 17 patients (mean age +/- standard deviation 32 +/- 14 years) with Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome who were either lying down in a supine position, standing, or undergoing isometric or dynamic treadmill exercise. There were significant decreases in the PP interval after isometric exercise, standing and dynamic exercise (supine 764 +/- 224, standing 638 +/- 146, isometric 605 +/- 170, treadmill 455 +/- 86 ms; p less than 0.05). Both anterograde and retrograde accessory pathway refractory periods were measured after a constant drive of 400 ms during lying down supine, standing and isometric and treadmill exercise (Bruce protocol stage II). There was no significant decrease in the anterograde accessory pathway refractory period during isometric exercise (lying down 265 +/- 22 to isometric exercise 256 +/- 13 ms, p less than 0.05), but there were significant decreases (p less than 0.05) during standing (246 +/- 24 ms) and treadmill exercise (235 +/- 17 ms). The retrograde accessory pathway refractory period also showed a significant decrease (supine 272 +/- 16, isometric 267 +/- 23, standing 249 +/- 15, treadmill 237 +/- 17 ms; p less than 0.05). The relative change in refractory periods was greater when patients changed from lying down to standing than when they changed from standing to treadmill exercise, despite obvious higher adrenergic neuronal activities during exercise. These findings suggest that testing the accessory pathway during free standing can give a reliable indication of the sensitivity of the accessory pathway to sympathetic stimulation. 
Continuous arteriovenous rewarming: report of a new technique for treating hypothermia. Survival is rare after major trauma if core temperature falls below 32 degrees C. Available rewarming methods are often ineffective. We utilized arterial and venous catheters to create a circulatory fistula through the heating mechanism of a modified commercially available counter-current fluid warmer to achieve simple, rapid extracorporeal rewarming. 
Misoprostol compared with sucralfate in the prevention of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastric ulcer. A randomized, controlled trial. OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy and frequency of adverse experiences of misoprostol and sucralfate in the prevention of gastric ulcers in patients receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy. DESIGN: A prospective, randomized, single-blind, multicenter trial. PATIENTS: Patients with osteoarthritis receiving treatment with ibuprofen, piroxicam, or naproxen and experiencing abdominal pain were eligible. INTERVENTIONS: Patients who were expected to receive at least 3 months of NSAID therapy and who did not have a gastric ulcer at the time of the initial screening endoscopy were randomized to receive misoprostol, 200 micrograms four times a day, or sucralfate, 1 g four times a day. A gastric ulcer was defined as a lesion of the gastric mucosa 0.3 cm or greater in diameter. Patients were followed clinically, and repeat endoscopies were performed after 4, 8, and 12 weeks. MAIN MEASUREMENT: The development of a gastric ulcer, which was regarded as a prophylaxis failure. RESULTS: Two hundred fifty-three patients were evaluable for efficacy analysis. A gastric ulcer developed in 2 of the 122 (1.6%, 95% CI, 0.3% to 6.4%) patients on misoprostol, compared with 21 of 131 patients on sucralfate (16%, CI, 10.4% to 23.7%). The difference in ulcer rates was 14.4% (CI, 10.4% to 19.5%; P less than 0.001). CONCLUSION: In patients receiving chronic NSAID therapy for osteoarthritis, treatment with misoprostol for 3 months was associated with a significantly lower frequency of gastric ulcer formation, compared with treatment with sucralfate (P less than 0.001). 
Characterization of the proliferative response of a CD4-8- thymic T lymphoma cell line to stimulation by thymic cellular elements. E710.2 is a cloned T cell line that was isolated from an AKR/J thymic tumor. This clone expresses Thy-1, heat-stable Ag, and the CD3/TCR complex but does not express CD4 or CD8. When the E710.2 cell line is injected into syngeneic mice, it grows as a malignant tumor in lymphoid organs and the thymus. In contrast, this cell line does not grow in vitro under standard culture conditions. This latter property allowed us to analyze the in vitro responsiveness of this CD4-CD8- cell line to stimulation by pharmacologic agents and cellular elements from the spleen and thymus. E710.2 cells proliferate when stimulated with phorbol esters or when cocultured with thymocytes or splenocytes. We could not detect soluble stimulatory factors in cultures of E710.2 and/or lymphoid cells, suggesting that cell contact might be required for this response. The stimulatory activity in thymus and spleen appears to be broadly expressed, because all cell subsets that were examined from these tissues stimulate this cell line. The stimulation of E710.2 cells is not MHC-restricted and is not inhibited by anti-MHC mAb. Furthermore, the responsiveness of these cells is not decreased when the TCR/CD3 complex is modulated from the cell surface. Similarly, TCR/CD3-deficient E710.2 variant clones retain their responsiveness to thymic and splenic cell stimulation. These findings suggest that there is a TCR-independent pathway of activation in E710.2 that is stimulated by a broadly expressed, non-MHC-encoded molecules(s). 
Coexpression of CD4 and CD8 on peripheral blood T cells and lamina propria T cells in inflammatory bowel disease by two colour immunofluorescence and flow cytometric analysis. Using two colour immunofluorescence with fluorescein isothiocyanate and phycoerythrin labelled monoclonal antibodies and multiparameter flow cytometry, we investigated the coexpression of CD4 and CD8 antigens on peripheral blood lymphocytes and lamina propria lymphocytes of patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease and normal control subjects. Both the absolute number and the proportion of peripheral blood CD4+, CD8+ cells in inflammatory bowel disease were small but significantly increased compared with those in normal control subjects. Peripheral blood lymphocytes activated with phytohaemagglutinin showed appreciably increased coexpression of CD4+, CD8+. These CD4, CD8 positive cells were large and granular. Thus the increased number of peripheral blood CD4+, CD8+ cells in inflammatory bowel disease suggests that chronic immune activation occurs not only in the active state of the disease but also in remission. The proportion of CD4+, CD8+ cells in the lamina propria was greater than in peripheral blood in normal subjects, suggesting chronic immune stimulation of the local immune system. This was also seen in patients with Crohn's disease or inactive ulcerative colitis. The proportion of CD4+, CD8+ cells was, however, significantly less in the lamina propria of patients with active ulcerative colitis. Whether this implies a possible defect in mucosal immunoregulation in active ulcerative colitis cannot be determined from these results. 
The clinical and endocrine outcome to trans-sphenoidal microsurgery of nonsecreting pituitary adenomas. From 1962 to 1987, 126 patients underwent trans-sphenoidal surgery for primary treatment of pituitary adenomas unassociated with clinical or biochemical evidence of hormonal overproduction. There were 73 male and 53 female patients (mean age, 50 +/- 12 years). Before surgery, 56% of the patients (70 of 124) had headaches, 74% (94 of 126) had deterioration of vision, and 12% (15 of 126) had ophthalmoplegia. Endocrine evaluation revealed the presence of hypogonadism in 75% (87 of 115), adrenal insufficiency in 36% (46 of 126), and hypothyroidism in 18% (21 of 122). Plasma prolactin was increased in 65% (56 of 86) with a mean level of 39 +/- 14 micrograms/l (normal, 3 to 20 micrograms/l). Radiologic enlargement of the sella turcica was documented in all cases: 67% (84 of 126) had enclosed and 33% (42 of 126) had invasive adenomas. After surgery, vision was normalized or improved in 75% (71 of 94) of the patients. Thyroid, adrenal, and gonadal functions were improved in 14% (three of 22), 41% (19 of 46), 11% (ten of 87), were unchanged in 82% (100 of 122), 77% (97 of 126), 89% (102 of 115), and worsened in 15% (19 of 22), 8% (ten of 126), 3% (102 of 115), respectively. Permanent diabetes insipidus occurred in 5% (seven of 126). Two patients died during the immediate postoperative period. The recurrence rate in patients with a mean follow-up of 6.4 +/- 4.2 years was 21% (15 of 71). These data indicate that trans-sphenoidal microsurgery is an effective and safe initial treatment for patients with nonsecreting pituitary adenoma and may reverse hypopituitarism. 
Inhibitory effect of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on mucosal cell proliferation associated with gastric ulcer healing To find out whether non-steroidial anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit the proliferation of mucosal cells that normally leads to healing of gastric ulcers a microdissection technique was used to quantify mitosis in gastric glands at the ulcer edge in relation to that in the adjacent mucosa. The regeneration index thus obtained of the ulcer edge was greater in the 9 subjects with gastric ulcers not taking NSAIDs (mean index 3.1 [SEM 0.61]) than that in the 8 patients taking NSAIDs (index 1.49 [0.16]). In rats in which gastric ulcers were produced with a cryoprobe, the ulcers were larger and slower to heal in those receiving indomethacin than in controls; also, immunohistochemical staining indicated significantly fewer mitotic cells in glands adjacent to the ulcer in indomethacin-treated rats (8 mitoses [SEM 3]) than in control animals (25 [5]). The prostaglandin E1 analogue misoprostol reversed the inhibition of healing and substantially restored the proliferative rate in the animals. Inhibition of epithelial cell division normally involved in gastric ulcer healing would contribute to the high prevalence of gastric ulcer during NSAID therapy. 
Relation of arteriographically defined coronary artery disease to serum lipoprotein particles mapped with monoclonal antibodies. BACKGROUND. This study was designed to investigate the relation of a molecular analysis of apolipoprotein B (apoB)-containing atherogenic lipoprotein particles to coronary artery disease (CAD) in middle-aged men. METHODS AND RESULTS. Two groups of men were studied. The first consisted of 97 patients with angiographically documented CAD (greater than 50% stenosis of at least one coronary artery). The second group consisted of 145 subjects without symptomatic CAD, who served as controls. In both groups, measurements were obtained for total cholesterol level, triglyceride level, cholesterol contents in apoB- and nonapoB-containing particles (LpB, LpnonB), total apoB and apolipoprotein AI (apoAI levels), lipoprotein particles recognized by monoclonal antibodies anti-apoB (LpBL3, LpBL5, LpBL7) and anti-apoAI (LpAI-2GII). Taking into account age, body mass index, hypertension, diabetes, smoking habits, and drug consumption, the analysis showed that the mean levels of cholesterol were identical in both groups but differed when cholesterol content in LpB and LpnonB subfractions were assessed, thus reflecting an increase in the low density fraction and a decrease in the high density fraction, respectively. This was confirmed by an increase in total apoB and a decrease in total apoAI. Measurements of LpBL3, LpBL5, LpBL7, and LpAI-2GII particles also discriminated between the two groups. After adjustment for cholesterol content in LpnonB particles, a difference in total apoB was no longer significant between groups, whereas LpBL3, LpBL5, and LpBL7 levels remained significantly higher in CAD patients. CONCLUSIONS. The measurement of separate concentrations of apoB in different particles may permit a more-accurate assessment of CAD risk than measurements of total apoB levels. 
Clinical significance of pericardial rub with regional ventricular dilatation. To elucidate the clinical characteristics associated with regional ventricular dilatation in the early phase of myocardial infarction (MI), 228 patients with acute Q-wave anterior MI were studied. Forty-nine patients (21 percent) had echocardiographically demonstrated regional ventricular dilatation (an abnormal bulge in the left ventricular contour during both systole and diastole) on the third hospital day. Careful auscultation revealed that a pericardial rub was present in 49 patients (21 patients with and 28 patients without regional ventricular dilatation) during the first three days after hospital admission. Multivariate analysis was performed to determine the relative importance of pericardial rub with six other clinical variables related to regional ventricular dilatation. Pericardial rub and cardiac output were the significant factors related to the presence of regional ventricular dilatation. Thus, a pericardial rub, in concert with impaired left ventricular function, is a physical sign associated with regional ventricular dilatation, and anatomically transmural infarction is the possible factor explaining their association. 
Diagnosis and management of systemic Wegener's granulomatosis presenting with anterior ocular inflammatory disease. The ocular and systemic features of 10 patients whose Wegener's granulomatosis presented with corneoscleral inflammatory disease are described. Marginal corneal infiltrates were seen in all patients with anterior scleritis and were a valuable sign of disease activity. Nine out of 10 patients had symptoms of systemic vasculitis on presentation; seven had renal impairment; three had chest x-ray abnormalities. Autoantibodies against neutrophil cytoplasmic determinants (ANCA) were present in all cases. In seven patients the scleritis responded well to pulsed immunosuppressive therapy followed by long term oral steroids and cyclophosphamide. Oral steroid therapy alone failed to control severe disease. Corneoscleral disease was not a cause of visual loss. It is important to realise that inflammatory corneoscleral disease may be the presenting feature of a severe systemic vasculitis. 
Chronic anterior uveitis in leprosy: an insidious cause of blindness. Chronic low grade anterior uveitis is the commonest cause of blindness in leprosy. It is usually asymptomatic until the late stages, and often patients seek help only after irreversible visual impairment has occurred. We present herewith several cases of this entity to emphasise the insidious nature of the disease, the extent of ocular damage it can cause, and the importance of early detection and treatment. 
Retinoid-mediated transcriptional regulation of keratin genes in human epidermal and squamous cell carcinoma cells. Vitamin A and other retinoids profoundly inhibit morphological and biochemical features of epidermal differentiation in vivo and in vitro. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the differential expression of epidermal keratins and their regulation by retinoids, we examined retinoid-mediated changes in total protein expression, protein synthesis, mRNA expression, and transcription in cultured human keratinocytes and in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC-13) cells of epidermal origin. Our studies revealed that the epidermal keratins, K5, K6, K14, and K16, their mRNAs, and their transcripts were diminished relative to actin as a consequence of retinoic acid (RA) treatment. The effects were most pronounced in SCC-13 and were detected as early as 6 hr post-RA treatment, with enhancement over an additional 24-48 hr. Repression was also observed when 5' upstream sequences of K14 or K5 genes were used to drive expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene in SCC-13 keratinocytes. Both cell types were found to express mRNAs for the RA receptors alpha and gamma, which may be involved in the RA-mediated transcriptional changes in these cells. The rapid transcriptional changes in epidermal keratin genes were in striking contrast to the previously reported slow transcriptional changes in simple epithelial keratin genes. 
A clinicopathologic study of node-based, low-grade, peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Angioimmunoblastic lymphoma, T-zone lymphoma, and lymphoepithelioid lymphoma. Postthymic (peripheral) T-cell malignancy shows marked diversity in histopathologic appearances as well as in clinical and prognostic aspects. Histologic findings and clinical behavior of 110 cases of the three specific types of low-grade, peripheral T-cell lymphomas, i.e., lymphoepithelioid (LeL), angioimmunoblastic (AILD), and T-zone (TzL) lymphomas, were studied. There were 74 men and 36 women (age range, 24 to 90 years; median, 58). Histologic study of LeL, AILD, and TzL showed prominent reactive features which are distinct from those of high-grade, T-cell lymphomas (pleomorphic/immunoblastic types). Corresponding to the differences in the histologic pictures of each type, there were differences in the clinical pictures and prognosis. Hypergammablobulinemia (greater than 4 g/dl) was more common in AILD than in the others. However, these three types exhibited a widely variegated, sometimes overlapping spectrum of histologic appearances, and it was extremely difficult to distinguish one from the other on several occasions. The same was true of their clinical and laboratory findings, and they had a relatively favorable prognosis as compared with pleomorphic/immunoblastic lymphomas. Although the conventional phenotypic analysis showed the prominent mixture of helper/inducer and cytotoxic/suppressor T-cells with a varying degree of B-cells and histiocytes, the double immunohistochemical study revealed that the neoplastic cells consisted predominantly of helper/inducer cells. Furthermore, five cases (5%) showed the morphologic transition among the three types or development into pleomorphic/immunoblastic lymphoma. They seemed to constitute a comprehensive and yet distinct group of T-cell lymphomas. Based on morphologic findings and clinical data, the authors demonstrated the distinct character of the node-based, low-grade, T-cell lymphomas and also the relationship among the three types in this group. The results of phenotypic and genotypic analyses also support the concept proposed here. 
A new anticancer drug delivery system for the management of carcinomatous peritonitis. To develop a new drug delivery system for the treatment of carcinomatous peritonitis, we constructed 5-fluorouracil poly L-microcapsules (5Fu-mc) by the organic phase separation technique and examined their drug-releasing capacities and anticancer effects. The microcapsules consisted of in vitro dissolvable polymolecular poly L-lactic acid and 5-fluorouracil (5Fu). The 5Fu-mc was about 200 microns in diameter and had a 5Fu content of about 40% (weight/weight). 5Fu-release time from the microcapsules was about 50 hours in vitro and about 48 hours in vivo. After the release of the 5Fu, the poly L-lactic acid was metabolized very slowly in the peritoneal cavity. The 5Fu-mc caused fewer side effects than the equivalent dose of a 5Fu solution. In addition, macroscopic and microscopic examinations of various abdominal organs revealed no toxic effects from the microcapsules. After administration of 5Fu-mc into the abdominal cavity of rats with AH-130 carcinomatous peritonitis, the 5Fu concentration remained at a high level for an extended period in the ascites but fell rapidly to low levels in the plasma. In conclusion, the present studies indicated that the 5Fu-mc were much more effective in prolonging the life of tumor-bearing hosts while producing less systemic side effects than a 5Fu solution. 
New recurring chromosomal translocations in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We identified seven new recurring translocations among 483 cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with adequate chromosome banding studies. Four were apparently balanced [t(1;3)(p34;p21), t(7;9)(p15;p23-p24), t(12;13)(p13;q14), t(17;19)(q22;p13)], while three were unbalanced with the formation of a dicentric chromosome [dic(7;9)(p13;p11), dic(7;12)(p11;p12), and dic(12;17)(p11;p11-p12)]. One translocation was observed in five cases, two in four cases, and the remaining four in two cases each. The modal chromosome numbers in these 21 cases were 45 (n = 11), 46 (n = 8), and 47 (n = 2). Eight of the 11 cases with a dicentric chromosome had a modal number of 45. Only a single translocation was found in 14 cases (67%), representing the sole structural abnormality in six cases. In three of the seven translocation subgroups, the blast cells were consistently of B lineage (pre-B, early pre-B, or both); in all others, they represented both the B and T lineages. The small size of these subgroups prevented definitive clinical correlations, although it may be important that two of the four cases with a t(17;19) and an early pre-B-cell immunophenotype had disseminated intravascular coagulation, an event usually observed in acute promyelocytic leukemia or T-cell ALL. These findings add substantially to the existing list of nonrandom chromosomal translocations in childhood ALL and may help to explain the genetic alterations leading to the loss of normal growth control mechanisms in this disease. 
Surgical treatment of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome by epicardial electrical ablation A new operation to eliminate accessory pathways--epicardial electrical ablation--is described. In a group of 201 patients without concomitant disease, the mortality rate was 0.5% and the overall efficacy of the operation for free wall accessory pathways, 98%. A retrospective clinical study of 44 unselected patients was performed to examine how safe epicardial electrical ablation is. The criteria for intraoperative effectiveness were disappearance of both the delta wave and retrograde conduction and inability to induce tachycardia. In the postoperative and follow-up periods, the following were reviewed: electrocardiograms; Holter monitor recordings (24 to 26 hours); release of the myocardial-specific isoenzyme of creatine kinase; intracardiac hemodynamics and myocardial contractility (radionuclide methods); selective coronary arteriograms and ventriculograms; mean work capacity (bicycle ergometer); diagnostic transesophageal electrical stimulation; and histology of the area of ablation. The main conclusion of this study is that epicardial electrical ablation is a highly efficient and safe operation for surgical elimination of parietal accessory pathways in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Its advantages are its technical simplicity and the opportunity to review results immediately during the operation. 
Proportionate mortality trends: 1950 through 1986 Mortality trends in the United States from 1950 through 1986 were analyzed for the conditions that are or have recently been among the six leading causes of death. The age-adjusted mortality rate for all causes has decreased from 841.5 to 541.7 per 100,000 population. Cause-specific, age-adjusted mortality rates have declined from 1950 through 1986 for cerebrovascular disease, injuries, perinatal conditions, heart disease, and influenza and pneumonia. Time trends in the proportion of persons dying of each of these diseases, however, have varied; the proportion dying of cerebrovascular disease, injuries, and perinatal conditions has decreased, and the proportion of persons dying of heart disease and influenza and pneumonia has remained fairly stable from 1950 through 1986. During this same time, age-adjusted death rates have increased for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and have remained fairly stable for malignant neoplasms, while the proportions of persons dying of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and malignant neoplasms have increased dramatically. For people aged 35 to 64 years, malignant neoplasms have now overtaken heart disease as the leading cause of death. For those aged 65 years and older, heart disease remains the leading cause of death, accounting for almost 50% of all deaths in persons 85 years and older. 
Hyperoxia prevents hypoxia-induced bronchial hyperreactivity via a cyclooxygenase-independent mechanism. We tested the hypothesis that prior exposure to alveolar hyperoxia prevents the hypoxia-induced enhancement of bronchial reactivity, possibly via a cyclooxygenase-dependent mechanism. In 15 sheep, specific lung resistance (sRL) was measured before and after 30 min of exposure to either air or a hypoxic gas mixture (13% O2). The sheep then inhaled 50 breaths of aerosolized 5% histamine solution (n = 9) or 10 breaths of 2.5% carbachol solution (n = 9), and measurements of sRL were repeated. On subsequent days the above protocols were repeated after a 30-min exposure to hyperoxia (O2 greater than or equal to 95%), without or after pretreatment with indomethacin (2 mg/kg). After air-sham exposure, carbachol and histamine increased mean sRL to 370 +/- 40 (SE) and 309 +/- 65% of baseline, respectively. Exposure to the hypoxic gas mixture had no effect on baseline sRL but enhanced the airway responsiveness to carbachol and histamine; mean sRL increased to 740 +/- 104 and 544 +/- 76% of baseline, respectively (P less than 0.05). Prior 30-min exposure to hyperoxia prevented the hypoxia-induced enhancement of bronchial reactivity to carbachol (sRL = 416 +/- 66% of baseline) and histamine (sRL = 292 +/- 41% of baseline) without affecting the airway responsiveness to these agents after air. Pretreatment with indomethacin did not reverse the protective effects of hyperoxia or the hypoxia-induced enhancement of bronchial reactivity. We conclude that 1) prior exposure to alveolar hyperoxia prevents the hypoxia-induced enhancement of bronchial reactivity and 2) neither the protective effects of hyperoxia nor the hypoxia-induced enhancement of bronchial reactivity is mediated via a cyclooxygenase-dependent mechanism. 
Pathophysiology of myocardial perfusion in hypertension. Chronic and acute hypertension have multiple untoward effects on the coronary circulation, several of which may either mimic or markedly worsen the clinical manifestations of coronary artery disease. Early after the onset of left ventricular hypertrophy secondary to hypertension, coronary vasodilator reserve is significantly impaired. During cardiac hypertrophy secondary to hypertension, the coronary arteries fail to enlarge in concert with ventricular enlargement. This failure results in a relative decrease by approximately 50% in the ratio of epicardial vessel diameter to the mass of myocardium perfused. The lower range of coronary subendocardial autoregulation is altered by chronic renovascular hypertension. A variety of vascular smooth muscle homeostatic mechanisms are abnormal in genetic models of hypertension, as is endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation. Acute hypertension may enhance constriction to serotonin, most likely through the release of potent vasoconstrictor substances from leukocytes and platelets that adhere to the endothelium as a result of endothelial damage. Finally, many of the consequences of myocardial infarction are worsened in the setting of hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Homing and progression patterns of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemias in severe combined immunodeficiency mice. The aim of this study was to analyze the homing and progression patterns of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL) in mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). Upon intraperitoneal (IP) transfer, cells from relapse samples of three children with T-lineage ALL spread hematogenously and infiltrated the non-lymphoid and/or lymphoid organs with a pattern reminiscent of the human clinical disease. These mice either died or were killed in extremis at a mean of 9 weeks. Moreover, cell lines established in vitro from two of these samples manifested identical homing and progression in the SCID mouse as compared with the original patients' cells. Thus, long-term culture of the primary leukemic T cells did not alter their invasive potential and migration pattern. When engrafted IP, three cell lines established from pre-B-ALL cases displayed primarily a lymphatic spread with induction of local tumor masses and kidney/liver nodules. Mice were killed at 11 to 13 weeks, but had not developed imminently fatal leukemia. However, when transferred intravenously, one pre-B ALL cell line was able to spread hematogenously and to infiltrate both lymphoid and non-lymphoid tissues. Overall, these data demonstrate that the SCID mouse provides an efficient and reproducible model to study the pathogenesis of childhood ALL, and may be a suitable system for evaluating therapy. 
Hemilaryngectomy for salvage of radiation therapy failures. Radiation therapy has been the treatment most frequently used for early vocal cord cancer with surgery usually in the form of total laryngectomy held in reserve as a salvage option. We report our experience in selected patients who, having failed radiation therapy for their early vocal cord cancers, underwent frontolateral hemilaryngectomy as attempted salvage surgery. Between 1977 and 1986, fourteen patients at the University of Pittsburgh Eye and Ear Hospital underwent hemilaryngectomy for salvage of their stage I vocal cord squamous cell carcinoma after full-course radiation therapy had been unsuccessful. Over this same time period, 77 patients underwent total laryngectomy for salvage of radiation therapy failure. Three patients failed hemilaryngectomy, two of whom were ultimately salvaged with total laryngectomy. Thus a 79% salvage rate was achieved with hemilaryngectomy with an average followup of 90 months. The overall cure rate was 93% (13 of 14) with voice preservation in 86% (12 of 14). Decannulation, postoperative infection, and initiation of oral intake were not influenced by age. Such problems occurred more often in patients undergoing radiation therapy compared to those undergoing hemilaryngectomy without previous radiation therapy. These results indicate that hemilaryngectomy may be used for the salvage of radiation therapy failures of stage I vocal cord carcinoma with good success and without undue morbidity. 
Orthostatic vital signs in emergency department patients. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the variability and define the normal ranges of orthostatic vital signs in an emergency department population. DESIGN: Descriptive. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Adult ED patients with no history of recent blood or fluid losses. MEASUREMENTS: Lying and standing heart rate and blood pressure measured by an automated instrument. RESULTS: In 132 presumed euvolemic patients, the statistical normal ranges (mean +/- 2 SD) of orthostatic vital signs were wide: on standing, the heart rate range was from decreases 5.0 to increases 39.4 beats per minute; for systolic blood pressure, the range was decreases 20 to increases 25.7 mm Hg; and for diastolic blood pressure, the range was decreases 6.4 to increases 24.9 mm Hg. In this sample, 43% had "positive" orthostatic vital signs according to currently accepted values. CONCLUSION: The data from this study indicate that there is a wider than expected variation in orthostatic vital signs among presumed euvolemic ED patients. 
Depression of factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity characterizes patients with early myocardial reinfarction after recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator therapy. Twenty patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) had endogenous factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity levels measured throughout the hospital period and those levels were prospectively correlated with the incidence of recurrent myocardial infarction until 8 weeks after hospital discharge. Within the follow-up period, recurrent myocardial infarction was observed in 8 patients, whereas the remaining 12 patients showed no clinical evidence of recurrence. The patients in the reinfarction group were characterized by a more pronounced depletion of and sustained lower levels of factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity than were the patients with no reinfarction (p less than 0.05). The decrease in fibrinolytic activity during rt-PA therapy was significantly associated with a depletion of functional alpha 2-antiplasmin, the primary plasmin inhibitor. These results indicate that, paradoxically, coronary thrombolysis with rt-PA involves depletion of endogenous factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity levels, which constitutes a risk for early myocardial reinfarction. 
Ig repertoire of human polyspecific antibodies and B cell ontogeny. A total of 463 EBV Ig-secreting clones were derived from embryonic tissues, cord blood, and adult peripheral blood. Subcloning and analysis of the H and K loci (germline vs rearranged DNA status) of 44 primary clones insured clonality in at least 92% of cases. Whatever the cell origin, a somewhat constant proportion of clones (i.e., 11 to 16%) expressed polyspecific antibodies when tested on a panel of nine Ag, including self-Ag. The VH and VK repertoires have been studied using VH1-VH6 and VK1-VK4 family-specific probes. For all EBV clones the VH and VK utilization was similar to that of the normal untransformed population. A correlation was observed between the level of expression and the gene number for VH, whereas a clear distortion appeared for VK. Moreover, the usage pattern of VH and VK families of the polyspecific clones did not significantly differ from that of clones of unknown specificity, suggesting that polyspecificity was not linked to a restricted repertoire. 
Prospective randomized evaluation of two regimens for converting from continuous to intermittent feedings in patients with feeding gastrostomies. Forty enterally fed male patients were randomized to one of two regimens designed to determine the better means of converting them from continuous to intermittent enteral feedings. All patients received a nutritionally complete iso-osmolal 1 kcal/cc formula containing 6 g of nitrogen/L beginning on the second postgastrostomy day. Half of the patients (20) were randomized to a discontinuous regimen abruptly changing from continuous to gradually increasing intermittent feedings until reaching their nutritional goals. Intravenous fluids were given to maintain normal fluid balance. The other 20 patients were randomized to an overlapping regimen, receiving continuous feedings at a decreasing rate while intermittent feedings were progressively increased. Intravenous fluids were used during the first three stages only. There were no significant differences (p less than 0.05) in major diagnosis, type of gastrostomy, age, weight, height, admission or discharge serum albumin concentration, calculated basal energy expenditure (BEE), or nutrient goals (1.5 X BEE, 1.5 g of protein/kg per day). 
First-pass nuclear magnetic resonance imaging studies using gadolinium-DTPA in patients with coronary artery disease. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging has been shown to accurately portray cardiac anatomy and function. To investigate the potential of NMR imaging for the assessment of coronary stenosis in patients with chest pain, ultrafast NMR imaging in conjunction with a T1 (longitudinal relaxation time) contrast agent was performed in 17 patients with chest pain who had undergone cardiac catheterization. These included 12 patients with significant coronary artery stenoses and 4 who underwent repeat NMR study after myocardial revascularization. Cardiac images at rest were obtained during rapid intravenous injection of gadolinium-DTPA (0.04 mM/kg). Electrocardiographic-gated images were acquired over 380 ms, with repetitive images obtained every 3 to 4 s. After contrast injection, there was pronounced signal enhancement in the right ventricular cavity, followed by enhancement in the left ventricular cavity and myocardium. Regional myocardium perfused by a diseased vessel demonstrated a lower peak signal intensity (p = 0.001) and lower rate of signal increase (p = 0.001) than did myocardium perfused by coronary arteries without stenosis. Repeat NMR study after revascularization showed an increase in peak signal intensity (p less than 0.002). These results demonstrate the clinical potential of dynamic gadolinium-DTPA-enhanced NMR imaging for the assessment of coronary artery disease in patients with chest pain. In combination with anatomic and functional NMR imaging, this technique has the potential to provide a comprehensive noninvasive cardiac evaluation of patients with suspected coronary artery disease. 
Severe 5-fluorouracil toxicity secondary to dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency. A potentially more common pharmacogenetic syndrome. This study describes the inheritance of a defect in pyrimidine catabolism and its association with drug-induced toxicity in a patient receiving 5-fluorouracil (FUra) as adjuvant chemotherapy for breast carcinoma. The study population included the affected patient (proband), nine of her blood relatives, and seven healthy volunteers. The activity of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), the initial enzyme of pyrimidine (and FUra) catabolism, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was measured in each subject by a specific radiometric assay using FUra as the substrate. The proband had no detectable DPD activity. When enzyme levels in the proband and relatives were compared with that in controls, an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance was demonstrated. This is the third patient with severe FUra toxicity secondary to an alteration in pyrimidine catabolism and the second from our clinic population suggesting that the frequency of this genetic defect may be greater than previously thought. Monitoring DPD activity may be important in the management of patients experiencing severe toxicity secondary to FUra chemotherapy. 
Characterization of liver epithelial cells transfected with myc and/or ras oncogenes. While many liver tumors contain activated myc and ras oncogenes, the mechanisms by which these genes contribute to cellular transformation is poorly understood. Activated versions of the cellular oncogenes, c-myc and/or c-H-ras were transfected into normal rat liver epithelial cells to identify cellular pathways that are altered in the cells containing the oncogenes. The results of these and other investigations indicate that the biological properties associated with the transfection of c-myc include immortalization, reduced contact inhibition of growth, activation of phospholipase A2-mediated pathways, increased sensitivity to transformation with a ras gene, and greatly increased sensitivity to growth factors. The biological properties associated with the transfection of the ras gene include morphological transformation, anchorage-independent growth, tumorigenicity, increased phosphatidylinositol metabolism, the induction of growth-factor processing and secretion, which leads to (exogenous) growth factor-independent tumor growth, and a marked resistance to normal inhibitors of growth such as TGF-beta. It is proposed that the complementary actions of the myc and ras genes in cellular transformation may be related to the ras-induced secretion of autocrine growth factors by cells sensitized to their effects by the myc gene. The increased stimulus for growth coupled to a ras-induced insensitivity to growth inhibitors may lead to clonal expansion of these cells and tumor development. 
Necrolytic migratory erythema: dyskeratotic dermatitis, a clue to early diagnosis. A 57-year-old woman with a 6-year history of a dermatitis that evolved into typical necrolytic migratory erythema is reported. Four biopsy specimens were obtained in 5 years. The early lesions revealed superficial perivascular inflammation in the dermis, minor epidermal spongiosis, and scattered dyskeratotic cells in the upper epidermis. The differential diagnosis of this pattern of dyskeratotic dermatitis, particularly in a chronic eruption, should include consideration of hyperglucagonemia and the possibility of an associated pancreatic islet cell tumor. 
Correlation of occult clonogenic leukemia drug sensitivity with relapse after autologous bone marrow transplantation. Despite initial complete remission rates exceeding 70%, the majority of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) eventually relapse. Improving the therapeutic results in acute leukemia requires detecting, and understanding the biology of, the minimal residual leukemia remaining after therapy and responsible for relapse. To investigate the biologic relevance of an in vitro assay for clonogenic leukemia (leukemia colony-forming units [CFU-L]) as a measure of minimal residual leukemia, we studied 58 consecutive patients with acute leukemia in complete remission undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT) with cyclophosphamide-based therapy. CFU-L were cultured from the pretransplant remission marrows in 45 of 58 patients: 35 of 43 patients with AML and 10 of 15 with ALL. Clonal rearrangements, identical to the patients' overt leukemia when available, were detected in the occult CFU-L from four of the eight patients with ALL in whom adequate DNA for analysis could be obtained from the CFU-L. None of the uncultured pretransplant remission marrows from the 15 ALL patients showed clonal gene rearrangements. We also determined the in vitro sensitivity of the occult CFU-L to 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4HC), and correlated these results with the outcome of the patients. The sensitivity of the occult CFU-L to 4HC was the only factor that predicted relapse following BMT. The actuarial probability of relapse was 18% in the 23 patients whose CFU-L were sensitive to 4HC compared with 77% in the 22 patients whose CFU-L were resistant (P less than .001). The only factor that influenced the CFU-L sensitivity to 4HC was the type of leukemia. The CFU-L from the AML patients were more sensitive to 4HC than the CFU-L from the ALL patients (P = .001). Occult CFU-L genetically and functionally represent occult leukemia. Therefore, the CFU-L assay should provide a means for studying the biology of minimal residual leukemia and improving the therapeutic results in patients with acute leukemia. 
Intraoperative colonic lavage and primary anastomosis in nonelective colon resection. In selected individuals requiring emergency colon resection, intraoperative colonic lavage with primary anastomosis represents a safe alternative to staged reconstruction. This procedure achieves excellent mechanical preparation of the colon, facilitates safe anastomosis, and avoids the disadvantages associated with multistaged operations. At our institution, 25 patients requiring urgent segmental resection of the left colon have undergone intraoperative colonic lavage. Primary anastomosis without fecal diversion has been performed in 21 of these patients. Obstruction of the large intestine was the indication for operation in 56 percent of the patients in this series. Ten patients (40 percent) required laparotomy for an acute intra-abdominal inflammatory process. No post-operative deaths have occurred in our series, and no patient has sustained clinically evident anastomotic leakage. A pelvic abscess developed in one patient after sigmoid colectomy for diverticulitis. Three patients required treatment for wound infection. Based on our results, we recommend resection with intraoperative colonic lavage and primary anastomosis as the preferred treatment for the majority of patients requiring nonelective segmental left colon resection. 
Scrapie-infected spleens: analysis of infectivity, scrapie-associated fibrils, and protease-resistant proteins. Scrapie-associated fibrils (SAF) and protease-resistant proteins (PrP) were isolated from spleens and brains of clinical animals (mice and hamsters) from three scrapie agent-host strain combinations, and their concentrations were compared with infectivity levels. The spleens of infected animals contained lower levels of infectivity, PrP, and SAF than did brains. Regardless of the route of infection, both SAF and infectivity were detected in spleen before brain. Infectivity increased in brains and spleens of 139A-infected mice before the detection and increase in SAF, suggesting that the synthesis of SAF and PrP may not be the limiting factor in agent replication. In contrast to those in ME7- and 263K-infected animals, the Western blot profiles for PrP from brain and spleen of 139A-infected mice exhibited distinct differences. Results indicate that SAF and PrP found in the spleens are both organ- and scrapie strain-specific. 
Randomized study on the effect of collagen impregnation of knitted Dacron velour aortoiliac prostheses on blood loss during aortic reconstruction. Intraoperative blood loss is an important factor in reconstructive surgery for aortoiliac disease because it is clearly associated with an increase in the operative morbidity and mortality rates. To minimize intraoperative blood loss, a blood-tight vascular prosthesis has been developed by impregnating a knitted Dacron prosthesis with bovine collagen. To study a potential reduction of intraoperative blood loss using these collagen-impregnated prostheses, we conducted a prospective randomized trial involving the collagen-impregnated prosthesis and its non-impregnated substrate, the Dacron knitted non-impregnated prosthesis. During a 2.5-year period, 123 consecutive patients (undergoing 81 procedures for aneurysmal disease and 43 procedures for occlusive disease) were admitted for elective aortic reconstructive surgery. Equal numbers of the two prostheses were randomly implanted. Various parameters were monitored: intraoperative blood loss before aortic cross-clamping (phase 1), during implantation of the prosthesis (phase 2) and after release of aorta cross-clamping (phase 3); the number of intraoperative and postoperative blood transfusions; and, finally, all preoperative and intraoperative factors that might contribute to intraoperative blood loss. A significant overall difference in intraoperative blood loss between the collagen-impregnated (2425 ml) and the non-impregnated (1907 ml) group was found (P = 0.003). However, this difference could not be attributed to collagen impregnation because no statistically significant difference in blood loss was found in the relevant period of operation (phase 3). Similar results were observed in patients operated on for both aneurysmal and occlusive disease (2600 versus 2195 ml and 2105 versus 1344 ml respectively). 
Profound hypothermia (less than 10 degrees C) compared with deep hypothermia (15 degrees C) improves neurologic outcome in dogs after two hours' circulatory arrest induced to enable resuscitative surgery. Deaths from uncontrollable hemorrhage might be prevented by arresting the circulation under protective hypothermia to allow resuscitative surgery to repair these injuries in a bloodless field. We have shown previously that in hemorrhagic shock, circulatory arrest of 60 minutes under deep hypothermia (tympanic membrane temperature, Ttm = 15 degrees C) was the maximum duration of arrest that allowed normal brain recovery. We hypothesize that profound cerebral hypothermia (Ttm less than 10 degrees C) could extend the duration of safe circulatory arrest. In pilot experiments, we found that the cardiopulmonary system did not tolerate arrest at a core (esophageal) temperature (Tes) of less than 10 degrees C. Twenty-two dogs underwent 30-minute hemorrhagic shock (mean arterial pressure 40 mm Hg), rapid cooling by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), blood washout to a hematocrit of less than 10%, and circulatory arrest of 2 hours. In deep hypothermia group 1 (n = 10), Ttm was maintained at 15 degrees C during arrest. In profound hypothermia group 2 (n = 12), during cooling with CPB, the head was immersed in ice water, which decreased Ttm to 4 degrees-7 degrees C. The Tes was 10 degrees C in all dogs during arrest. Reperfusion and rewarming were by CPB for 2 hours. Controlled ventilation was to 24 hours, intensive care to 72 hours. In the 20 dogs that followed protocol, best neurologic deficit scores (0% = normal, 100% = brain death) at 24-72 hours were 23% +/- 19% in group 1 and 12% +/- 8% in group 2 (p = 0.15). Overall performance categories and histologic damage scores were significantly better in group 2 (p = 0.04 and p less than 0.001, respectively). We conclude that profound cerebral hypothermia with CPB plus ice water immersion of the head can extend the brain's tolerance of therapeutic circulatory arrest beyond that achieved with deep hypothermia. 
A clinicopathologic study of 153 cases of complete hydatidiform mole (1980-1990): histologic grade lacks prognostic significance. Although the significance of histologic grading in hydatidiform mole has previously been investigated, most studies evaluated patients treated before 1975. Since 1975, many advances have been made in the understanding and treatment of hydatidiform mole, including the division of molar pregnancy into complete and partial hydatidiform mole. We retrospectively studied 153 cases of complete hydatidiform mole diagnosed and treated at the Brigham and Women's Hospital between 1980-1990 to determine the current prognostic significance of histologic grading in this disease. The histologic grade (based on the criteria of Hertig and Sheldon) was compared with the subsequent clinical course, including the rates of spontaneous remission, persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor, metastatic disease, "high-risk" metastatic disease, chemotherapy resistance, and survival. The histologic grade of the original complete hydatidiform mole did not correlate significantly with any index of clinical outcome evaluated. 
Granulomatous vasculitis occurring after cutaneous herpes zoster despite absence of viral genome. Granuloma annulare, sarcoidal and other granulomatous dermatitides, pseudolymphoma, lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma, and Kaposi's sarcoma have been described as sequelae of herpes zoster. We report a new postzoster reaction, granulomatous vasculitis, that caused flat-topped papules restricted to the affected dermatome. Polymerase chain reaction failed to detect varicella-zoster virus in a biopsy specimen. These results suggest that granulomatous vasculitis occurs without persistence of the viral genome and, perhaps, is a reaction to minute amounts of viral proteins. 
The endocrine effects of long-term treatment with mifepristone (RU 486). Mifepristone (RU 486) is a compound with progesterone as well as cortisol-blocking activities. We investigated the endocrine effects of long-term therapy of 10 patients with meningiomas with 200 mg mifepristone daily for 1 yr. Most patients initially complained of nausea, vomiting, and/or tiredness. In four patients prednisone (7.5 mg/day) had to be given simultaneously in order to overcome these side-effects. In retrospect those patients who presented with the most severe side-effects showed the most rapidly occurring activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal-axis, as measured by an increase of circulating cortisol levels as well as of urinary cortisol excretion. Therapy with RU 486 activated the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, resulting in a resetting of this system at a higher level at which the diurnal rhythm and the responsiveness to CRH stimulation were maintained, whereas the sensitivity to dexamethasone had diminished. Secondarily the production of androstenedione and estradiol increased considerably. These endocrine changes were caused by the induction of partial cortisol receptor resistance during therapy with RU 486. The compensatory overproduction of androgens and consequently of estrogens during long-term RU 486 therapy might limit its use as a single treatment in the treatment of estrogen-dependent cancer. 
Acute pandysautonomic neuropathy. Acute pandysautonomic neuropathy is characterized by severe postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic dysfunction, with relative or complete sparing of motor and sensory function. Of four reported cases with sural nerve biopsies, two were normal and two abnormal, revealing loss of small myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. We present a patient with pandysautonomic neuropathy and elevated CSF protein whose sural nerve biopsy showed active axonal degeneration. 
A spectrum of bilateral squamous conjunctival tumors associated with human papillomavirus type 16. Three patients with bilateral tumors presenting as multiple keratinizing and verrucous lesions of the bulbar and tarsal conjunctiva were determined by DNA amplification and hybridization studies to harbor human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16). Results of biopsy in two patients showed infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma in one eye and dysplasia or carcinoma in situ in the fellow eye. In the third patient, focal, inflamed, hypertrophic, papillary lesions with pseudoglandular invaginations of the surface epithelium were found in the tarsal conjunctivae of both eyes. These are the first documented cases of bilateral conjunctival tumors associated with human papillomavirus. 
Exaggerated and prolonged thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH) test responses in tertiary hypothyroidism. A 60 year old man with panhypopituitarism due to a large meningioma and prolonged and exaggerated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) responses is described. Initial investigations showed a subnormal urinary free cortisol concentration, a low serum cortisol taken at 0900 hours, and a low free T4 concentration. The TSH was towards the upper end of the normal range. Subsequently pituitary function tests showed subnormal production of luteinising hormone in response to luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) and a short synacthen test with a low 30 minute cortisol value. Long synacthen testing showed a normal response at four days, confirming that the abnormalities were due to a pituitary or hypothalamic cause. A computed tomogram showed a large meningioma compressing the hypothalamus, pituitary, and temporal lobe. TRH testing showed a prolonged and exaggerated response, consistent with tertiary hypothyroidism. 
Treatment of antenatal myasthenia gravis. Maternal myasthenia gravis has been associated with the presence of neonatal myasthenia and sometimes fatal congenital anomalies. As a result, antenatal therapy directed at fetal sequelae may be indicated. We present the case of a pregnant myasthenic woman whose two previous pregnancies had ended in neonatal deaths from fetal deformations that were presumably due to maternal myasthenia. Serial plasmaphereses and oral prednisone therapy were used in an attempt to depress maternal anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody titers. As anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody titers fell, fetal breathing movements became apparent by ultrasound, and as these titers rose, no fetal breathing movements were apparent. Our patient delivered an infant with transient neonatal myasthenia but normal pulmonary development and no deformations. We suggest that the therapy given may have improved the outcome of this pregnancy compared with her two previous pregnancies. 
Gastrointestinal mucosal injury in experimental models of shock, trauma, and sepsis. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: The mucosa of the GI tract serves as an important barrier limiting the systemic absorption of luminal microbes and microbial products. Two methods commonly used to assess the integrity of the GI mucosal barrier are assessment of the extent of microbial translocation and measurement of mucosal permeability to hydrophilic probes. RESULTS: Studies using these methods have provided convincing evidence that the barrier function of the intestinal mucosa is deranged in numerous animal models of shock, trauma, and sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: Although the mechanisms underlying mucosal injury under these circumstances remain incompletely understood, current evidence suggests that mucosal damage in shock, trauma, and sepsis is likely due to various combinations of intracellular hypoxia due to ischemia, tissue injury caused by reactive oxygen metabolites, the deleterious effects of various lipid mediators (e.g., platelet-activating factor) and/or cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis factor), and deficient utilization or supply of key nutritional substrates (e.g., glutamine). 
Pneumatic retinopexy. A two-year follow-up study of the multicenter clinical trial comparing pneumatic retinopexy with scleral buckling. The authors report 2-year follow-up information on 179 of 198 eyes (90%) enrolled in a previously published multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing pneumatic retinopexy (PR) with scleral buckling (SB) for the management of selected retinal detachments. Scleral buckling was compared with PR with regard to redetachment after the initial 6-month follow-up period (1% versus 1%), overall attachment (98% versus 99%), subsequent cataract surgery (18% versus 4%; P less than 0.05), preoperative visual acuity (no significant difference), and final visual acuity of 20/50 or better in eyes with macular detachment for a period of 14 days or less (67% versus 89%; P less than or equal to 0.05). Reoperations after a failed PR attempt did not adversely affect visual outcome. After 2 years, PR continues to compare favorably with SB. 
Prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism in surgical patients. Venous thromboembolic disease is a common, potentially life-threatening, but preventable complication of surgery. Venographic studies have shown a high incidence of deep vein thrombosis in patients who do not receive prophylaxis. The long-term sequelae of deep vein thrombosis in these patients can be disabling, but the exact prevalence of post-thrombotic complications has not been well documented. Fatal pulmonary embolism has been reported in 0.5% to 1% of patients after major abdominal surgery and in 2% to 6% after total hip replacement. Several methods of prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism have demonstrated efficacy, but a surprising number of patients still do not receive prophylaxis. A medical record review in 16 hospitals recently disclosed that only 32% of high-risk patients received prophylaxis, with a range from 9% in a community hospital to 56% in a major teaching hospital. The possible reasons for this comparatively low rate of utilization are discussed. Current issues and future trends in the prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism are briefly summarized. 
Certified cause of death in children and young adults with cerebral palsy. The status of 732 children suffering from cerebral palsy from the South East Thames region (births from 1970-9) was ascertained at the end of 1989, and copies of death certificates of the 73 children who have died, aged 4 weeks to nearly 16 years, were obtained. Infantile cerebral palsy (ICD Code 343-) was coded as the underlying cause of death in only 16 (22%) cases. On 28 (38%) certificates there was no mention of any form of cerebral palsy, the proportion in which it was not mentioned increasing with age. In 20 (28%) cases the coded underlying cause of death was respiratory, hence in published national statistics the number of deaths from respiratory causes is inflated. A postmortem examination was known to have been performed in 23 cases, but the recorded information was in some cases limited to a 'terminal event'. The importance of good data on the death certificate, and the significance of published national statistics, need to be communicated to all those involved in the certification process if cerebral palsy and other chronic conditions, which raise the relative risk of death, are not to be under-represented. 
Repair of aortic coarctation in infants. Fifty-three consecutive infants younger than 2 years underwent coarctation repair. A recoarctation occurred in 11 infants (21%). To determine variables associated with recoarctation, we entered preoperative and operative data into a multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis. Patient weight was an incremental risk factor for recoarctation instead of age, in contrast to previously published studies. Furthermore, the residual gradient after the operation was a strong incremental risk factor. This risk factor was even more significant when expressed as a ratio of the systolic arm pressure, which takes background hemodynamics into account. Because weight is a more significant risk factor than age, we conclude that deferring operation is indicated only when the infant gains weight. Furthermore, a residual gradient is more important in the hemodynamic setting of a lower systolic arm pressure. 
Dose response characteristics of hypertonic saline dextran solutions. In an effort to find the best hypertonic saline-dextran solution (HSD) for prehospital use, 33 chronically catheterized sheep were bled using a fixed pressure shock model (50 mm Hg x 2 hours) and resuscitated with 4 ml/kg of HSD solution (2-minute bolus). In the first set of experiments colloid was varied and sodium chloride was held constant, as 7.5% NaCl was paired with either 0%, 6%, or 12% dextran 70. A dose-response relationship existed, with cardiac output increasing 20% with each sequential dextran 70 concentration. Mean arterial blood pressure was higher in animals that were resuscitated with either the 7.5% NaCl/6% dextran 70 or 7.5% NaCl/12% dextran 70 solution (p less than 0.05). Using the optimal dextran 70 concentration from the first set of experiments (i.e., 12%), solute was varied in a second set of experiments comparing 0.9%, 3.8%, 7.5%, or 10% NaCl/12% dextran 70. Again, dose-response features were demonstrated, as cardiac output increased as a function of NaCl concentration. However, this response plateaued with the 7.5% NaCl concentration and no advantage was obtained by increasing the NaCl concentration to 10%. We conclude that a 4-ml/kg bolus of 7.5% NaCl/12% dextran 70 solution may be a more effective form of therapy than those previously evaluated. This new solution is now being included in our ongoing clinical trials. 
Diminishment of respiratory sinus arrhythmia foreshadows doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. BACKGROUND. The development of a microcomputer-based device permits quick, simple, and noninvasive quantification of the respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) during quiet breathing. METHODS AND RESULTS. We prospectively and serially measured the radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction and the RSA amplitude in 34 cancer patients receiving up to nine monthly bolus treatments with doxorubicin hydrochloride (60 mg/m2). Of the eight patients who ultimately developed symptomatic doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure, seven (87.5%) demonstrated a significant decline in RSA amplitude; five of 26 subjects without clinical symptoms of cardiotoxicity (19.2%) showed a similar RSA amplitude decline. On average, significant RSA amplitude decline occurred 3 months before the last planned doxorubicin dose in patients destined to develop clinical congestive heart failure. CONCLUSION. Overall, RSA amplitude abnormality proved to be a more specific predictor of clinically significant congestive heart failure than did serial resting radionuclide ejection fractions. 
Plasma endothelin in coronary venous blood from patients with either stable or unstable angina. STUDY OBJECTIVE--To test the hypothesis that the active coronary endothelial lesions in unstable angina raise the endothelin concentration in coronary venous blood. DESIGN--Systemic and coronary venous blood samples were obtained from unselected patients with the clinical syndromes of either stable or unstable angina at the time of cardiac catheterisation and coronary arteriography. Control venous blood samples were obtained from healthy laboratory workers and from patients with chronic renal failure treated by intermittent haemodialysis. PATIENTS--Twelve patients with angina: seven with stable symptoms and five with unstable angina. RESULTS--The mean coronary venous endothelin concentration in unstable angina was 2.32 ng/l (range 1.7-3.2 ng/l). In stable angina it was 2.77 ng/l (range 2.1-4.4 ng/l). These values were not significantly different from one another nor from the values obtained in systemic venous blood from either group or from the healthy controls. Circulating endothelin concentrations were much higher in venous blood from the patients treated by haemodialysis. CONCLUSIONS--These data do not support the hypothesis that raised endothelin concentrations in coronary blood in patients with unstable angina may modulate variations in coronary arterial tone thereby contributing to the clinical syndrome of chest pain and electrocardiographic changes at rest. The raised endothelin concentrations seen in systemic venous blood after myocardial infarction may be part of the systemic response to myocardial infarction. 
Effects of an increase in intracellular free [Mg2+] after myocardial stunning on sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ transport. BACKGROUND. Myocardial stunning has been associated with a greater than twofold increase in intracellular free [Mg2+] from 0.6 to 1.5 mM. The effect of this increase in free [Mg2+] on the function of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca2+ pump was assessed in SR isolated from Langendorff perfused, isovolumic rabbit hearts after 15 minutes of global ischemia. METHODS AND RESULTS. Our results indicate that myocardial stunning results in a shift in the Ca2+ sensitivity of oxalate-supported, Ca2+ transport over the entire range of free [Ca2+] associated with the cardiac cycle. Using 0.6 mM free Mg2+ as control, maximal rates of Ca2+ transport occurred at 1 microM free Ca2+ (control, 519 +/- 32; stunned, 337 +/- 37 nmol Ca2+.min-1.mg-1). At 0.56 microM free Ca2+, SR Ca2+ transport was reduced from a control of 351 +/- 49 to 263 +/- 12 nmol Ca2+.min-1.mg-1 at 0.6 mM free [Mg2+]. Moreover, an increase in the free [Mg2+] from 0.6 to 1.5 mM results in a greater shift in the Ca2+ activation curve with no change in the level of maximal activation. Ca2+ transport at 0.56 microM free Ca2+ was shifted in the stunned SR from 263 +/- 12 to 138 +/- 29 nmol Ca2+.min-1.mg-1 at 0.6 and 1.5 mM free Mg2+, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. These results indicate that an increase in free [Mg2+] after stunning in combination with the inherent defect in the SR Ca2+ ATPase may reduce the ability of the cell to regulate Ca2+ to a greater extent than previously observed. This impairment in Ca2+ regulatory function may contribute directly to the increase in diastolic tone and indirectly to the reduced systolic function characteristic of the stunned myocardium. 
Sarcomas of soft tissue and bone. Sarcomas arise primarily from mesenchymal structures at any site in the body, even within visceral stroma and neurovascular bundles. Sarcomas have been associated with prior radiation therapy, toxic exposures, and genetic conditions and soft tissue sarcomas have been distinguished from bone sarcomas. For localized soft tissue sarcoma, tumor grade is the most important prognostic variable. Low-grade tumors are generally cured by wide surgical excision, but there is a significant rate of both local recurrence and development of distant metastasis in high-grade lesions. The treatment of soft tissue sarcoma histologic subtypes is generally similar grade-for-grade, with the exception of rhabomyosarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, and mesothelioma. Tumor location strongly influences resectability. Radiation therapy has been used successfully in conjunction with conservative surgery to improve local control rates for soft tissue sarcomas, particularly in extremity lesions. Currently, adjuvant chemotherapy remains unproven for most adult soft tissue sarcomas, but is established in the treatment of rhabdomyosarcomas, osteosarcomas, and Ewing's sarcomas. 
Otolaryngologic aspects of Lyme disease. Lyme disease is a systemic illness caused by the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi and transmitted by the bite of a tick in the Ixodes ricinus complex. While the illness is often associated with a characteristic rash, erythema migrans, patients may also present with a variety of complaints in the absence of the rash. The otolaryngologist may be called upon to see both groups of patients, with any number of signs and symptoms referable to the head and neck, including headache, neck pain, odynophagia, cranial nerve palsy, head and neck dysesthesia, otalgia, tinnitus, hearing loss, vertigo, temporomandibular pain, lymphadenopathy, and dysgeusia. We review our institutional experience with 266 patients with Lyme disease, 75% of whom experienced head and neck symptoms. We also summarize the diagnostic and treatment modalities for this illness. 
Duplex Doppler sonography of the carotid artery: false-positive results in an artery contralateral to an artery with marked stenosis. Anecdotal reports have described a false-positive "jet effect" or velocity increase in the carotid artery contralateral to an artery with significant stenosis or occlusion when using duplex Doppler sonography. In this study, the frequency, significance, and possible reasons for this finding were evaluated by a retrospective comparison of duplex sonography and angiography. Twenty-three patients with unilateral 81-100% carotid artery stenosis who underwent both duplex sonography (16 Acuson, seven Quantum) and angiography were evaluated. In 14 patients, there was an accurate or slight underestimate (less than 20%) of stenosis present in the internal carotid artery contralateral to an artery with tight stenosis/occlusion. In nine, a velocity increase in the internal carotid artery resulted in overestimation (10-80%) of the actual degree of stenosis. In one of these nine patients, real-time images were sufficient to explain the velocity increase on the basis of vessel tortuosity. In one, falsely elevated velocity resulted from inaccurate assignment of the Doppler angle of incidence in a patient in whom real-time visualization of a distal internal carotid lesion was poor. In four of the nine patients, cross filling via the circle of Willis toward the side of greater stenosis occurred. However, seven of 14 patients in whom there was duplex sonography/angiography agreement or slight duplex sonography underestimation also had cross filling. Vertebral artery patency did not correlate well with the presence of a "jet effect." These findings suggest that an increase in blood flow velocity with duplex Doppler sonography in the internal carotid artery on the side opposite an artery with a tight stenosis is a common source of error and is not readily explained by angiographic evidence of collateral flow. 
Influence of isradipine on the maternal and fetal cardiovascular system in hypertensive disorders in pregnancy. Nine pregnant women (aged 28.7 +/- 6.9 years) who had developed hypertension (blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg) took part in an open pilot study with the new calcium antagonist isradipine. Dosage was started with 1.25 mg twice daily and was increased weekly to 2.5 mg and 5 mg twice daily until a diastolic blood pressure of less than or equal to 80 mm Hg was achieved. By the time of the last visit before term, blood pressure was significantly reduced to 129/79 mm Hg and heart rate had not altered. External cardiotocography indicated fetal well-being throughout the entire study. Doppler flow measurements showed no deterioration in A:B ratio, resistance index, and pulsatile index. All measurements in the newborn were within normal ranges. In conclusion, isradipine is a safe and effective drug for pregnant women and their fetuses in the management of hypertensive disorders in pregnancy. 
Abdominal CT findings after liver transplantation in 66 patients. CT scanning is used frequently to assess the condition of patients after liver transplantation. The CT records of 174 adult patients who underwent liver transplantation were studied retrospectively to determine the number and timing of CT studies as well as the frequency and significance of the findings. One-hundred seventy CT scans were obtained in 66 (38%) of the 174 patients, with a mean of 2.6 scans/patient. The interval between transplantation and scanning was 1 day to 24 months; in 59 (89%) of 66 patients, the first CT scan was obtained within 30 days. The acute indications for CT scanning were fever or leukocytosis in 54 (92%) of 59 patients and abnormal liver function tests in five (8%) of 59 patients. CT scans obtained more than 30 days after transplantation were repeat scans in all but seven patients. Indications in this latter group were the same as for the acute group, plus evaluation of hepatic neoplasia in three patients. CT findings included periportal low attenuation in 41 (62%) of 66 patients; ascites in 25 (38%); splenomegaly in 19 (29%); loculated intraperitoneal noninfected fluid collections in 13 (20%); intrahepatic, splenic, pancreatic, or perihepatic abscesses in seven (11%); hepatic infarction in six (9%); splenic infarction in three (4%); and hepatic calcification in two (3%). Other major abnormalities included inferior vena caval thrombosis (one patient), pseudoaneurysm of the hepatic artery with rupture (one patient), and recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma (one patient). CT scanning after liver transplantation is used predominantly in the acute setting to evaluate for liver infarction or intraabdominal abscess. In this setting, CT showed these abnormalities, in addition to tumor recurrence or vascular abnormalities, in 15 (23%) of 66 patients. 
Protein-tyrosine-phosphatase CD45 is phosphorylated transiently on tyrosine upon activation of Jurkat T cells. The leukocyte common antigen (CD45) is an abundant lymphocyte surface antigen that has been reported to be involved in signaling through the T-cell antigen receptor. CD45 is a transmembrane protein-tyrosine-phosphatase. An internal segment comprises two domains each of which is homologous to other protein-tyrosine-phosphatases; the extracellular segment has the hallmarks of a ligand-binding motif. Since tyrosine phosphorylation is an early signal resulting from stimulation of the T-cell antigen receptor and CD45 is required for proper activation through the receptor, we explored whether CD45 might be regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation. Treatment of a T-cell leukemia line (Jurkat) with either phytohemagglutinin or anti-CD3 antibodies induced phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in CD45; treatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate did not. Phosphorylation of CD45 was transient, disappearing within 40 min after phytohemagglutinin treatment. The requirement for stringent conditions of phosphatase inhibition suggests that CD45 is capable of autodephosphorylation in vivo. These observations support recent reports indicating CD45 is involved in an early step in the T-cell activation cascade. They also suggest that phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of tyrosine residues in CD45 should be explored further as a possible regulatory mechanism. 
Headache in the use and withdrawal of opiates and other associated substances of abuse. The incidence and character of headache were retrospectively studied in 40 opiate addicts and 40 control subjects. The relationships between headache and use and withdrawal of opiates or other associated substances of abuse were investigated. In the opiate-dependent patients, the effects of opiate intake and withdrawal on headache were also investigated during detoxification treatment. A higher (p less than 0.001) incidence of headache was found in the opiate addicts (60%), particularly those with a longer history of addiction, than in the control subjects. A history of different types of headache (tension type headache, migraine-like headaches), which seemed respectively to be associated with the use of certain types of heroin, cocaine intake, and opiate withdrawal, was reported by the addicts who suffered from headache. Out of the 24 patients who completed the detoxification therapy, a migraine-like headache occurred in 37.5% of the subjects after opiate withdrawal. 
Treatment of ulcerated hemangiomas with the pulsed tunable dye laser. Hemangiomas are the most common tumor of infancy and are characterized by rapid growth during the first 6 months of life. During the rapid growth phase, approximately 5% to 10% of the hemangiomas ulcerate. Ulcerated lesions are painful, may bleed, and are at risk for bacterial infection. Previous therapy has included daily local wound care, topical antibiotics, and local and systemic steroids. We treated nine infants (eight female and one male) with ulcerated hemangiomas by means of a vascular-specific (585-nm) pulsed (450-microsecond) tunable dye laser. Eight of the nine patients had a single ulceration, whereas one patient had two ulcerations within a large hemangioma. Six of the ulcerations healed with a single laser treatment. One ulceration required two treatments to heal, and the remaining two required three treatments. Pain was subjectively decreased within 2 to 3 days in all patients after a single treatment. The pulsed tunable dye laser should be considered in the treatment of all ulcerated hemangiomas. 
Pathophysiology of myocardial perfusion in hypertension. Chronic and acute hypertension have multiple untoward effects on the coronary circulation, several of which may either mimic or markedly worsen the clinical manifestations of coronary artery disease. Early after the onset of left ventricular hypertrophy secondary to hypertension, coronary vasodilator reserve is significantly impaired. During cardiac hypertrophy secondary to hypertension, the coronary arteries fail to enlarge in concert with ventricular enlargement. This failure results in a relative decrease by approximately 50% in the ratio of epicardial vessel diameter to the mass of myocardium perfused. The lower range of coronary subendocardial autoregulation is altered by chronic renovascular hypertension. A variety of vascular smooth muscle homeostatic mechanisms are abnormal in genetic models of hypertension, as is endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation. Acute hypertension may enhance constriction to serotonin, most likely through the release of potent vasoconstrictor substances from leukocytes and platelets that adhere to the endothelium as a result of endothelial damage. Finally, many of the consequences of myocardial infarction are worsened in the setting of hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Kistrin, a polypeptide platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonist, enhances and sustains coronary arterial thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in a canine preparation BACKGROUND. Kistrin is a 68-amino acid polypeptide from the venom of the Malayan pit viper Agkistrodon rhodostoma, which inhibits the platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor. Its effect on thrombolysis, reocclusion, and bleeding associated with administration of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was studied in a canine model of coronary artery thrombosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Coronary patency was monitored for 2 hours by ultrasonic flow probe and repeated coronary angiography. The rt-PA was given as 0.45-mg/kg bolus injections at 15-minute intervals until recanalization or to a maximum of four boluses. Four groups of four or five dogs were studied: a control group that received intravenous heparin (4,000-unit bolus and 1,000 units each hour) and three groups that received heparin and 0.48, 0.24, or 0.12 mg/kg kistrin, administered as a 10% bolus injection and an infusion during a 60-minute period. In the control group, reflow occurred in four of five dogs within 37 +/- 47 minutes but was followed by cyclic reflow and reocclusion. Kistrin at a dose of 0.48 and 0.24 mg/kg reduced the time to reflow to 6 +/- 5 and 10 +/- 3 minutes, respectively, and abolished reocclusion. With 0.12 mg/kg kistrin, reflow occurred in all four animals, within 27 +/- 23 minutes, and reocclusion occurred in two animals. Kistrin induced a dose-related prolongation of the template bleeding time: with 0.48 mg/kg kistrin, the bleeding time was prolonged from 3.8 +/- 1.3 minutes before infusion to 29 +/- 2 minutes during infusion, but it was shortened to 8.3 +/- 2.6 minutes at 90 minutes after the end of infusion. Kistrin also caused a dose-related inhibition of platelet aggregation with ADP and collagen: with 0.48 mg/kg kistrin, platelet aggregation was abolished during the infusion but had partially recovered toward the end of the observation period. Pathological examination of recanalized coronary arterial segments of dogs given 0.48 or 0.24 mg/kg kistrin revealed widely patent arteries with some platelets layered on the damaged intimal surface. CONCLUSIONS. Kistrin increases the rate and extent of thrombolysis with a reduced dose of rt-PA, and it prevents reocclusion. At an effective dose, it is associated with a transient prolongation of the bleeding time and inhibition of platelet aggregation. Kistrin may offer promise as adjunctive treatment to thrombolytic agents in patients with acute myocardial infarction. 
Massive hemorrhage from a ruptured enteric varices of an augmented bladder. Intestinal varices are uncommon and usually occur secondary to portal hypertension. We report a case of variceal rupture in the intestinal segment of an augmentation colocystoplasty. The patient presented in shock from exsanguinating hemorrhage per urethram, and diagnosis was established at laparotomy. Although the bleeding was controlled with excision of the involved intestinal segment, the patient died of multiple organ failure. The diagnosis and treatment of this rare but fatal condition are discussed. 
Intracerebral temperature in neurosurgical patients. Recent laboratory results have indicated that the ischemic brain is very sensitive to minor variations in temperature. This has created new interest in hypothermia and brain temperature. There is, however, very little information available regarding human intracerebral temperature and its relation to body core temperature during normal and pathological circumstances. We therefore made continuous measurements of the temperature of the lateral ventricle in 15 neurosurgical patients utilizing a newly developed technique with copper-constantan thermocouples introduced through a plastic catheter also used for monitoring intracranial pressure. The intraventricular temperature was higher than the rectal temperature during approximately 90% of all measurements. The largest temperature gradient measured was 2.3 degrees C. Usually the difference between the temperature of the rectum and the brain was much smaller, the mean value being 0.33 degrees C. For the patients in the most severe condition, the rectal temperature was sufficiently close to the brain temperature to afford a reliable basis for adequate clinical judgment. 
Complications of the Heitz-Boyer urinary diversion: case report of late development of malignancy. We report on 3 patients with bladder exstrophy followed for more than 15 years after having undergone Heitz-Boyer urinary diversion. One patient had adenocarcinoma at the ureterocolonic anastomoses 16 years after diversion. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of a malignancy developing after a Heitz-Boyer procedure. The other 2 patients had significant problems with urinary incontinence and recurrent urinary tract infections. Initial success with this form of urinary diversion can be followed by significant long-term complications. 
Clear cell squamous cell carcinoma. A histologic, immunohistologic, and ultrastructural study. Squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) usually show a standard histopathologic picture only varying with regard to their degree of differentiation. The authors describe a case of clear cell SCC that was studied by light and electron microscopy. The clear cells showed an empty cytoplasm that was periodic acid-Schiff and alcian blue negative. By electron microscopy these cytoplasms consisted of empty spaces and were not surrounded by membranes, which would be consistent with lipid vacuoles. The differential diagnosis of this uncommon variant of SCC requires consideration of other clear cell tumors. 
Phrenic neural output during hypoxia in dogs: constant-flow ventilation vs. spontaneous breathing. We studied the effects of removing cyclic pulmonary afferent neural information on respiratory pattern generation in anesthetized dogs. Phrenic neural output during spontaneous breathing (SB) was compared with that occurring during constant-flow ventilation (CFV) at several levels of eucapnic hypoxemia. Hypoxia caused an increase in both the frequency and the amplitude of the moving time average (MTA) phrenic neurogram during both SB and CFV. The change in frequency as arterial saturation was reduced from 90 to 60% during SB was significantly higher than that during CFV [SB, 32.3 +/- 10.9 (SD) breaths/min; CFV, 10.3 +/- 5.8 breaths/min; P = 0.001]. By contrast, the increase in the amplitude of the MTA phrenic neurogram was smaller (SB, 0.62 +/- 0.68 units; CFV, 1.35 +/- 0.81 units; P = 0.01). The changes in frequency with hypoxia during both modes of ventilation resulted primarily from a shortening of expiratory time. Both inspiratory time and expiratory time were greater during CFV than during SB, but their change in response to hypoxia was not significantly different. We conclude that the amplitude response of the MTA phrenic neurogram to hypoxia is similar to that seen during hypercapnia; in the presence of phasic afferent feedback the MTA amplitude response is decreased and the frequency response is increased relative to the response observed in the absence of phasic afferents. 
Captopril improves neurologic outcome from incomplete cerebral ischemia in rats. We investigated the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril on neurologic outcome in a rat model of incomplete cerebral ischemia. Twenty male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with 70% nitrous oxide in oxygen and fentanyl (10 micrograms x kg-1 i.v. bolus, 25 micrograms x kg-1 x hr-1 i.v. continuous infusion). Animals in group 1 (n = 10) received no angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor while animals in group 2 (n = 10) were given 10 mg x kg-1 i.v. captopril 30 minutes prior to the ischemic period. Ischemia was produced by unilateral carotid artery ligation and hemorrhagic hypotension to 35 mm Hg for 30 minutes. Body temperature, arterial blood gases, and arterial pH were maintained constant. Neurologic outcome was evaluated every 24 hours for 3 days using a graded deficit score (0, normal; 18, stroke-related death). On the third day after ischemia, captopril significantly improved neurologic outcome (median deficit score = 4) compared with controls (median deficit score = 18) (p less than 0.05). These results suggest that reduced angiotensin II levels or increased tissue kinin concentrations may decrease ischemic brain injury. 
Ability of high-intensity ultrasound to ablate human atherosclerotic plaques and minimize debris size. To investigate whether high-intensity ultrasound can destroy atherosclerotic plaques while sparing the normal arterial wall, 279 normal human aortic sites and 119 fibrous and 193 calcified plaques, obtained from 24 necropsies, were insonified in a water tank, at 20 kHz and at 5 different power intensities, ranging from 68 W/cm2 (P1) to 150 W/cm2 (P5). These intensities were associated with a total excursion of the ultrasound irradiation apparatus tip from 90 to 268 microns, respectively. Time to perforate normal aortic sites and fibrous and calcified plaques was recorded at each intensity. There was no difference in perforation time between normal aortic sites and fibrous and calcified plaques when high-power levels (P2 to P5) were used. However, at the lowest power (P1), perforation time for the normal aortic wall was significantly longer than for fibrous and calcified plaques: 30 +/- 18 seconds (166 observations), 14 +/- 7 seconds (p less than 0.001) (78 observations) and 12 +/- 8 seconds (p less than 0.001) (115 observations), respectively. When perforation times for normal vessel wall versus fibrous plaque and normal vessel wall versus calcified plaque from the same necropsy specimen were compared in a pairwise manner, the results were: 29 +/- 13 vs 16 +/- 7 (p less than 0.001) (48 paired observations) and 26 +/- 9 vs 10 +/- 5 seconds (p less than 0.001) (55 paired observations), respectively. Regardless of whether paired or unpaired comparison was applied, no significant difference was found in perforation time between fibrous and calcified plaques. The debris did not differ in size as measured separately for normal sites and fibrous and calcified plaques by a computer-interfaced Channelizer and Coulter Counter system. 
The effect of radiation therapy on the fixation strength of an experimental porous-coated implant in dogs. Radiation therapy prevents heterotopic ossification after cemented total hip arthroplasty, but its effect on the fixation of porous-coated devices is not known. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of irradiation on the pullout strength of a porous implant in the canine model. A custom-designed titanium fiber metal-coated cylinder was implanted into the distal femurs of 12 dogs. One femur of each dog was irradiated with 10 Gy, given in four 2.5-Gy daily fractions beginning one day after surgery. Serial bone scans were performed at one, two, four, and six weeks postoperatively. At six weeks, the femurs were harvested, and eight were randomly selected for mechanical testing. Scintigraphic evaluation showed a significant reduction in uptake at one and two weeks in the irradiated limb, but this had returned to normal at four and six weeks. The failure to pullout was significantly less in the irradiated limb compared with the control limb six weeks postoperatively. In this canine model, the pullout strength of the titanium fiber implant was significantly reduced by a dose of radiation commonly used in the prevention of heterotopic ossification. If irradiation is chosen for prophylaxis, either the porous implant should be adequately shielded or a cemented implant should be utilized. 
Disability, residential mobility, and changes in living arrangements. The extent of mobility and changes in living arrangements associated with disability were studied using data from the 1984-86 Longitudinal Study of Aging. It was hypothesized that persons with significant limitations in their ability to perform normal daily activities (ADLs and IADLs) in 1984 would be more likely to move, more likely to be living with others in 1986, and more likely to have entered an institution between 1984 and 1986 than those without limitations. When only those variables that were measured in 1984 were used as predictors, this turned out to be true for institutionalization and for living with others in 1986. However, among those remaining in households, residential mobility showed little relationship to disability when other variables were controlled. When the change in disability between 1984 and 1986 was added to the prediction equation, there were strong relationships between changes in disability and both residential mobility and adjustment in living arrangement, suggesting that people respond quickly to significant changes in disability. However, because we cannot be sure that the changes in disability preceded the mobility or changes in living arrangements, we cannot claim to have established a causal link between these events. 
Change in the expression of a nuclear matrix-associated protein is correlated with cellular transformation. We have identified a monoclonal antibody that recognizes a nuclear matrix-associated protein in NIH 3T3 cells. The immunofluorescence pattern consists predominantly of bright nuclear granule clusters distributed throughout the nucleoplasm, with the exclusion of nucleoli. It recognizes a protein of 190 kDa that is down-regulated to various degrees in a panel of single-oncogene-transformed NIH 3T3 cells. Its localization is similar, but not identical, to the spliceosomal speckles. p190 shows a coordinate expression during the growth cycle of nontransformed NIH 3T3 cells; it is synthesized at the highest level under growth arrest conditions. It is expressed in adult mouse brain and is also present in human IMR-90 fibroblasts. 
Small, deep pelvic abscesses: definition and drainage guided with an endovaginal probe. Four small, deep pelvic abscesses were easily drained transvaginally by using an endovaginal transducer for guidance, support, and continuous monitoring of catheter placement. Collections that could not be drained percutaneously or at surgery were effectively managed with this technique. An inexpensive guide (estimated cost, $1.65) facilitated control of the catheter. All four abscesses resolved without further intervention. 
Exercise thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy in the assessment of coronary artery disease. Exercise thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy has been used extensively over the last decade for the detection and localization of coronary artery disease. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a refinement of presently available techniques, offering improved identification over planar imaging of individual vessel stenosis and quantification of the extent of abnormally perfused myocardium. In this review, the planar and SPECT techniques are discussed in light of the most recently published large patient series, and with regard to the many factors that affect the sensitivity and specificity of perfusion imaging in identifying coronary artery disease. The clinical implications of exercise perfusion scintigraphy and its future applications in cardiology practice are discussed. 
Obstructive sleep apnea complicating negative-pressure ventilatory support in patients with chronic paralytic/restrictive ventilatory dysfunction. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence and severity of obstructive events and oxyhemoglobin desaturation (dSaO2) in 37 patients with paralytic/restrictive ventilatory insufficiency during use of nocturnal ventilatory assistance provided by means of negative-pressure body ventilators (BVs). Thirteen of the 37 patients had mean oxyhemoglobin saturation (SaO2) less than 95 percent and a mean of ten or more episodes per hour when the dSaO2 was greater than or equal to 4 percent (4%dSaO2/h). In all, 26 of the 37 patients had evidence of significant multiple episodes of dSaO2 while asleep on BVs. Polysomnography performed on three of these patients substantiated the obstructive nature of the dSaO2. Twenty-two of the 37 patients who had a mean SaO2 of 90.6 +/- 7.2 percent and a mean of 17.7 +/- 16.1 4%dSaO2/h on BVs were switched to noninvasive ventilatory assistance by intermittent positive airway pressure (NV-PAP). Their mean SaO2 improved to 96.0 +/- 2.2 percent, and the 4%dSaO2/h decreased to 1.2 +/- 1.8 per hour. All symptoms similar to those of obstructive sleep apnea were relieved. We conclude that BV use is associated with significant dSaO2 in over 50 percent of patients. The dSaO2 is predominantly obstructive in nature but may be due to chronic underventilation in patients using less effective BVs. Patients with a mean SaO2 less than 95 percent or 10 or more 4%dSaO2/h may benefit from conversion to NV-PAP via the nose, the mouth, or an oral-nasal interface. 
Intrahepatic hematoma: a rare complication of exchange transfusion. A four-day-old male neonate who underwent three exchange transfusions for jaundice owing to ABO incompatibility on three consecutive days is presented. A large intrahepatic hematoma developed as a complication of the third exchange transfusion. The baby fully recovered. 
Partial motor epilepsy with "negative myoclonus". Three children had both nocturnal unilateral motor seizures and daytime ipsilateral "negative myoclonus" which occurred so frequently that it resembled asterixis. Neurophysiologic studies demonstrated lateralized spike discharges that were time-locked to postural lapse in the contralateral outstretched arm. The clinical course was characterized by good seizure control with benzodiazepines. 
Treatment of acute migraine with subcutaneous sumatriptan. Sumatriptan succinate, a 5-HT1D receptor agonist, constricts human cranial arteries. Two parallel-group trials for treatment of acute migraines were conducted in the United States. Adult patients were randomized and given either 6 mg of sumatriptan succinate subcutaneously (n = 734) or placebo (n = 370). At 1 hour, sumatriptan was significantly more effective than placebo in reducing moderate or severe headache pain to mild or no pain (70% vs 22%), in completely relieving headaches (49% vs 9%), and in improving clinical disability (76% vs 34%). Sumatriptan also reduced nausea and photophobia significantly better than placebo. Patients with residual migraines received another injection; those who had originally received sumatriptan received either a second active injection (n = 187) or placebo (n = 178), while those who had received placebo received a second placebo injection (n = 335). Statistical evidence for benefit of second sumatriptan injection is absent. Adverse events associated with sumatriptan were tingling, dizziness, warm-hot sensations, and injection-site reactions. Sumatriptan is effective and well tolerated in patients with acute migraine. 
Deletion of sequences upstream of the proteinase improves the proteolytic processing of human immunodeficiency virus type 1. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expresses structural proteins and replicative enzymes within gag and gag-pol precursor polyproteins. Specific proteolytic processing of the precursors by the viral proteinase is essential for maturation of infectious viral particles. We have studied the activity of proteinase in its immature form, as part of a gag-pol fusion protein, in an in vitro expression system. We found that deletion of p6*, the region in pol upstream of proteinase, resulted in improved processing of the precursor. A modified proteinase is released, but it functions less efficiently than wild type. Improved autoprocessing correlates with increased accessibility of the active site region in the polyprotein carrying the p6* deletion. Our results suggest that p6* is involved in the regulation of proteinase activation, perhaps as a region limiting the interaction of the active site and substrate binding domain with the remainder of the polyprotein. Release of p6* inhibition may be an activation step necessary for infectious particle maturation. 
Dipyridamole echocardiography stress testing in hypertensive patients. Targets and tools. Arterial hypertension can provoke a reduction in coronary flow reserve through several mechanisms that are not mutually exclusive, namely, coronary artery disease, left ventricular hypertrophy, and microvascular disease. These different targets of arterial hypertension should be explored with different diagnostic markers. The transient dyssynergy detected by two-dimensional echocardiography and evoked during dipyridamole infusion is a marker of coronary disease that is equally reliable in normotensive and hypertensive individuals. On the contrary, dipyridamole-induced ST segment depression is frequently elicited in hypertensive patients when angiographically assessed coronary disease is absent. This ischemiclike electrocardiographic response can be found in echocardiographically assessed left ventricular hypertrophy. However, even when left ventricular mass is normal, dipyridamole-induced ST segment depression is associated with an impaired coronary flow response to pacing, which is consistent with microvascular disease. Whether echocardiographically silent electrocardiographic changes are simply diagnostic noises transmitting a misleading false positive response or a potentially important clinical marker of early myocardial damage remains a pivotal though still unanswered question. 
Response characteristics of a dual transcutaneous oxygen/carbon dioxide monitoring system. We tested the response characteristics of a dual transcutaneous (tc) PO2/PCO2 monitoring system in healthy subjects who breathed various gas mixtures, and we compared steady-state tc readings to simultaneous arterial blood gas analysis in 20 stable respiratory outpatients. The electrodes were simple to apply, required very little skin preparation, and had trivial signal drift. In healthy subjects, tcPCO2 lag time during CO2 rebreathing was 16.8 seconds, with a 90 percent response time of 77.9 seconds after CO2 breathing was discontinued. The 90 percent response times of the O2 electrode when subjects breathed a hypoxic mixture was 257 seconds after a lag of 31 seconds. When inhaled gas mixtures were changed from hypoxia to room air, the lag time was shorter (12.5 seconds), but 90 percent response time exceeded 5 minutes. In stable patients with respiratory disease, tcPCO2 and tcPO2 were linearly related to PaCO2 (range, 19 to 53 mm Hg) and PaO2 (range, 45 to 99 mm Hg), respectively (tcPCO2 = 1.4 PaCO2-9.44, with r = 0.90 and SEE = 5.35 mm Hg; tcPO2 = 0.56 PaO2 + 20.4, with r = 0.53 and SEE = 11.7 mm Hg). We conclude that the response of the dual transcutaneous monitoring system is more rapid for the CO2 than the O2 electrode and may be rapid enough to be useful in some clinical settings; however, the O2 system fails to offer the response characteristics and accuracy that would allow it to be substituted for arterial gas tensions in unstable clinical situations. 
Risk factors for stroke as predictors of platelet membrane fluidity in Alzheimer's disease. We have previously reported that increased platelet membrane fluidity identifies a subgroup of patients with Alzheimer's disease who have distinct clinical features including an earlier age of symptomatic onset, a more rapidly progressive cognitive decline, and a decreased prevalence of focal electroencephalographic findings. In the current study, these patients also exhibited a decreased prevalence of risk factors for stroke compared with patients who had normal platelet membrane fluidity. Our findings suggest that the platelet membrane abnormality describes a clinical subgroup of patients with Alzheimer's disease who are less likely to have coexisting cerebrovascular disease than the remaining patients who meet clinical consensus criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease. 
Enhancement of mammary carcinogenesis by high levels of dietary fat: a phenomenon dependent on ad libitum feeding Female 55-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with a single intravenous dose of 7,12-dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA), 2 mg/100 g of body weight each. At 60 days of age, the rats were divided into four dietary groups (41-42 rats/group):I, 5% corn oil diet fed ad libitum; II, 20% corn oil diet fed ad libitum; III, 5% corn oil diet fed 12% less than group I; and IV, 20% corn oil diet fed 12% less than group II. The 5% and 20% corn oil diets were purified semisynthetic diets that were isonutrient on a caloric basis. All animals were housed individually in single cages; food consumption of each animal was computed daily throughout the study. Sixteen weeks after carcinogen treatment, mean numbers of mammary carcinomas per rat (+/- SE) in groups I, II, III, and IV were 4.1 +/- 0.6, 6.8 +/- 0.7, 3.0 +/- 0.3, and 4.1 +/- 0.5, respectively. Mean weight of mammary carcinomas per rat (g +/- SE) in groups I, II, III, and IV were 3.5 +/- 0.7, 8.0 +/- 1.3, 3.0 +/- 1.1, and 4.6 +/- 1.3, respectively. Mammary carcinoma number and weight were significantly (P less than .01) increased in the animals fed the 20% corn oil diet ad libitum when compared with those fed the 5% corn oil diet ad libitum; however, no significant differences in mammary tumor number or weight were observed between the animals fed a restricted, 20% corn oil diet and those fed a restricted, 5% corn oil diet. The study involving the animals fed the 12%-restricted diets was repeated (38-42 rats/group), with virtually identical results, i.e., the mean number of mammary carcinomas per rat in the groups fed the restricted 5% fat and 20% fat diets at termination of the study was 3.1 +/- 0.4 and 3.7 +/- 0.3, respectively, and the mean weight (g) of mammary carcinomas per rat was 4.3 +/- 1.2 and 4.0 +/- 1.1, respectively (no significant differences). Thus, high levels of dietary fat can significantly enhance mammary carcinogenesis in female rats, but only in animals on an ad libitum feeding protocol. A slight restriction in amount consumed (12% less than ad libitum) abolished the mammary carcinogenic differential between a high-fat and a low-fat diet. 
Recombinant interferon alfa given before and in combination with standard chemotherapy in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first marrow relapse: a Pediatric Oncology Group pilot study. Recombinant interferon alfa (rIFN-alpha) was given to 31 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first on-therapy marrow relapse as the sole treatment (30 megaunits/m2/d intravenously x 10 days) before standard four-drug reinduction and during multiagent continuation therapy (30 megaunits/m2 subcutaneously x 3 consecutive days every 3 weeks). After 10 days of rIFN-alpha, there were two partial remissions (PRs); seven additional patients had either greater than or equal to 25% reduction in the percentage of marrow blast cells or hypoplastic marrow. Two patients had progressive disease with an increase in leukocyte counts. All patients experienced influenza-like symptoms, and there were isolated instances of severe abdominal pain and personality change. Dose-limiting toxicity comprised grade III/IV transaminase elevation (two patients) and syncope with personality change (one patient). Twenty-three of 31 children (74%) subsequently achieved marrow remission using standard agents. One patient was taken off study during teniposide (VM-26) and cytarabine (ara-C) consolidation due to toxicity. Continuation therapy including rIFN-alpha pulse was well tolerated in the remaining children; only one patient required rIFN-alpha dosage reduction (for CNS toxicity). rIFN-alpha toxicity did not necessitate reductions in doses of standard chemotherapy agents or significant delays in therapy. Five patients remain in remission at 26+ to 36+ months; 13 patients relapsed in marrow, one in the meninges (7 months), and one in meninges, mediastinum, and lymph nodes (2 months). Two children were removed from study for marrow transplant. In summary, high-dose rIFN-alpha alone had a modest antileukemic effect. In contrast to the clinical experience with combined rIFN-alpha and chemotherapy in adults, rIFN-alpha given in a pulse-like manner throughout continuation therapy did not compromise the intensity of the standard chemotherapy regimen. 
Enhanced gastric mucosal haemostasis after upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. An endoscopic technique for the measurement of gastric mucosal bleeding time has been developed to study gastric haemostasis in patients with acute upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. The relation of gastric mucosal bleeding time to skin bleeding time and nonsterodial anti-inflammatory drug usage was examined in 61 control patients and in 47 patients presenting with bleeding peptic ulcers or erosions. Gastric mucosal bleeding time was shorter in patients with haemorrhage (median 2 minutes, range 0-5 minutes) than in the control group (median 4 minutes, range 2-8 minutes) (p less than 0.001). Skin bleeding times were similar in the two groups (medians 4 minutes in patients with haemorrhage and 4.5 minutes in controls). In 21 patients with haemorrhage who were taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the median gastric mucosal bleeding time (2.5 minutes, range 1.0-5.0 minutes) was similar to that in 26 patients with haemorrhage not associated with these drugs (2.0 minutes, range 0.0-5.0 minutes). These results show that gastric mucosal haemostasis is accelerated in response to haemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract, even in patients taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. This enhanced gastric haemostasis probably reflects a local protective response to minimise blood loss from the bleeding lesion. 
Prognostic value of serum proteins synthesized by breast carcinoma cells. Several breast carcinoma cell lines or explants of such tumors, as well as examples of lactating or dysplastic breast tissue, synthesized three serum proteins (alpha 2-Zn-glycoprotein, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, and alpha-lipoprotein) in vitro. These proteins were detected by immunoperoxidase techniques in 126 breast carcinomas that had been evaluated clinically for more than six years. Alpha-2-Zn-glycoprotein was present in 58% of the carcinomas, whereas alpha 1-antichymotrypsin was seen in 55% and alpha-lipoprotein in 52%. These markers showed a relationship with clinical outcome. Alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and alpha-lipoprotein were unfavorable determinants, whereas alpha 2-Zn-glycoprotein was detected in lesions with a favorable evolution. Taken individually, these markers have similar but rather weak associations with five-year survival rates; roughly 20% of patients in the "favorable" group died, compared with 33% in the "unfavorable" group. Alpha-2-Zn-glycoprotein in grade 1 tumors was a marker with marginally favorable significance, but alpha 1-antichymotrypsin significantly worsened the prognosis of grade 2 and 3 tumors. Furthermore, stratification of patients according to the number of positive unfavorable markers yielded striking results. Eight percent of patients with none of the unfavorable markers were dead at five years, compared with 55% of those whose lesions expressed three unfavorable markers. 
Total replacement for post-traumatic arthritis of the elbow. Fifty-three of 55 consecutive elbow replacements for post-traumatic arthritis were followed for a minimum of two years (mean 6.3, range 2 to 14.4). The patients presented difficult management problems, having undergone an average of two previous operations per joint; 22 joints had suffered prior complications; 18 had less than 50 degrees of flexion and six were flail. One of three versions of the Coonrad prosthesis was employed in all. During the follow-up period, 10 patients underwent 14 revision procedures for aseptic loosening; 38 elbows are currently without progressive radiolucent lines. In two patients an elbow had to be resected, one for deep infection and the other for bone resorption following a foreign-body reaction to titanium. The current design of the Coonrad prosthesis offers a reliable option for the treatment of post-traumatic arthritis but should be used only in carefully selected patients over the age of 60 years. 
Cardiac rehabilitation services: what are they and are they worth it? The objectives of cardiac rehabilitation include lowering mortality but, more importantly, increasing functional capacity so reducing disability and potentially improving quality of life. The data suggest that cardiac rehabilitation services are worth the patient's costs and efforts and as such, they should be considered an integral component of comprehensive cardiovascular care by cardiologists and primary care physicians. While there is considerable agreement on the roles of exercise testing and training in the three position stands, there are also substantiated, and important, differences in their recommendations on other cardiac rehabilitation services, such as counseling and risk factor management. The challenge for the 1990's is not only to continue to better define the effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation services, but more urgently, how to deliver effective services most efficiently. This will help physicians provide optimum care for their patients, will improve the patient's likelihood of regaining for themselves an active and productive life, and should generate a more equitable and accountable reimbursement system for quality health care. 
Risk stratification for arrhythmic events in postinfarction patients based on heart rate variability, ambulatory electrocardiographic variables and the signal-averaged electrocardiogram. The value of heart rate variability, ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) variables and the signal-averaged ECG in the prediction of arrhythmic events (sudden death or life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias) was assessed before hospital discharge in 416 consecutive survivors of acute myocardial infarction. During the follow-up period (range 1 to 1,112 days), there were 24 arrhythmic events and 47 deaths. The initial relation between several prognostic factors and arrhythmic events was explored with use of the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates of survival function. Impaired heart rate variability less than 20 ms (p less than 0.0000), late potentials (p less than 0.0000), ventricular ectopic beat frequency (p less than 0.0000), repetitive ventricular forms (p less than 0.0000), left ventricular ejection fraction less than 40% (p less than 0.02) and Killip class (p less than 0.02) were identified as significant univariate predictors of arrhythmic events. When these variables were analyzed by using a stepwise Cox regression model, only impaired heart rate variability, followed by late potentials and repetitive ventricular forms remained independent predictors of arrhythmic events. The combination of impaired heart rate variability and late potentials had a sensitivity of 58%, a positive predictive accuracy of 33% and a relative risk of 18.5 for arrhythmic events and was superior to other combinations including those incorporating left ventricular function, exercise ECG, ventricular ectopic beat frequency and repetitive ventricular forms. These results suggest that a simple method of assessment based on heart rate variability and the signal-averaged ECG can select a small subgroup of survivors of myocardial infarction at high risk of future life-threatening arrhythmias and sudden death. 
Hemianesthesia, sensory neglect, and defective access to conscious experience. We report a patient with an ischemic stroke in the vascular territory of the right middle cerebral artery who had left spatial neglect and left hemianesthesia. The patient showed a dissociation between defective verbal reporting of somatosensory stimuli delivered to the left hand and physiologic evidence from an autonomic index. This indicates that there was processing of undetected stimuli without the patient's awareness, and suggests that the hemianesthesia was due, at least in part, to somesthetic hemi-inattention. 
Pathogenesis of thrombosis in unstable angina. Plaque rupture of the thinned, weak fibrous cap infiltrated by macrophages and overlying a pool of lipid in the arterial wall initiates the acute thrombotic event of unstable angina. Thrombosis may be advanced within minutes. Most lesions that precede plaque rupture are minor (less than 50% stenosis); thus, thrombus greatly contributes to sudden flow limitation and onset of symptoms. If thrombosis can be totally blocked (not possible with current antithrombotic agents), clinical events should be preventable, and endogenous thrombolysis may be possible within days. Local and systemic factors contribute to arterial thrombosis. With type III injury (fissure into plaque or media) platelet-rich thrombus anchors in the fissure, tracks along the site of deep injury, extends into the lumen, and requires the highest blood level of specific thrombin inhibition (a molar concentration that inhibits the total concentration of prothrombin in circulating blood). Thus, the thrombin content requiring inhibition in type III injury is highest. Local factors for thrombosis associated with type III injury include the rheology of blood flow (increased shear rate forces platelets to the periphery) and substrates in the arterial wall. Plaque substrates include the more thrombogenic collagens (types I and III and diabetic or glycosylated collagen), tissue thromboplastin, lipid gruel, thrombin bound to arterial wall matrix, and decreased prostacyclin. There is a direct relation between platelet deposition (thrombus) and local vasoconstriction, which may perpetuate each other. Thrombus as a substrate is more thrombogenic than type III arterial injury. 
Ossified mucin-secreting choroid plexus adenoma: case report. This is the first report of a fully documented case of an ossified mucin-producing benign choroid plexus tumor. This was a chance finding in a man who complained only of posttraumatic low back discomfort. The ossification of the tumor appears to have been therapeutic. Mucin production may be a defense mechanism. 
Increased incidence of lymphoproliferative disorder after immunosuppression with the monoclonal antibody OKT3 in cardiac-transplant recipients BACKGROUND. A sudden increase in the incidence of post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder among the patients in our cardiac-transplantation program was temporally related to introduction of the immunosuppressive drug OKT3. This monoclonal antibody has come to be widely used in recent years both to prevent and to treat rejection after cardiac transplantation. METHODS. In order to identify variables that predict the development of post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder, we analyzed retrospectively a series of 154 consecutive cardiac-transplant recipients at a single institution. Univariate analyses and multivariate analysis by logistic regression were performed. RESULTS. Among 75 patients who did not receive OKT3, post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder developed in 1 (1.3 percent), as compared with 9 of 79 patients who received the drug (11.4 percent); the incidence among the OKT3-treated patients was ninefold higher (odds ratio, 9.5; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 54.7). According to multivariate analysis, the only factor significantly associated with the development of post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder was the use of OKT3 (P = 0.001). A significant increase in risk with increasing doses was also apparent: 4 of 65 patients who received a cumulative dose of 75 mg of OKT3 or less (6.2 percent) had post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder, whereas 5 of 14 patients who received more than 75 mg had the disorder (35.7 percent; P less than 0.001). CONCLUSION. The addition of OKT3 to the immunosuppressive regimen increases the incidence of post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder after cardiac transplantation, and the risk increases sharply after cumulative doses greater than 75 mg. We suggest that the risks and benefits of prophylactic OKT3 administration be reassessed in the light of these findings, particularly since the value of prophylactic immunotherapy in cardiac-transplant recipients remains to be clearly established. 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and complicated diverticular disease: a case-control study. Fifty patients with severe complications of diverticular disease were compared with two groups of 50 controls, matched for age and sex. The first control group (A) was randomly selected from all emergency hospital admissions, and the second group (B) from patients with uncomplicated diverticular disease. Of the 50 study patients, 24 (48 per cent) were taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) at the time of admission compared with nine (18 per cent) of control group A and ten (20 per cent) of control group B. Both of these differences were statistically significant, indicating a strong association between the ingestion of NSAIDs and the development of severe complications of diverticular disease. 
Is there a link between fluoridated water and osteosarcoma? To test the hypothesis that fluoride is a risk factor for osteosarcoma, a case control study compared the complete residential fluoride histories of osteosarcoma patients with matched hospital-based controls. Fluoridation was not found to be a risk factor for osteosarcoma in the study population. The trend in the data from this small sample study suggests the hypothesis that a protective effect may exist against the formation of osteosarcoma for individuals consuming fluoridated water. 
Postoperative computed tomography study of pterygomaxillary separation during the Le Fort I osteotomy. Computed tomography (CT) was used postoperatively to assess the pterygomaxillary region in 12 orthognathic surgery patients who had had a Le Fort I osteotomy. Although pterygomaxillary separation was successful in all cases, in only 41.6% of the sides did fractures of the plate not occur. The incidence of low pterygoid plate fracture was 37.5% and that of high pterygoid plate fracture was 25%; 4.2% of sides showed a maxillary tuberosity fracture. Multiple fractures were observed in 8.3% of separated plates. Of 17 pterygoid plates judged clinically to be intact, only 10 were intact as assessed by CT. The significance of these findings and application of CT to evaluation of modifications to the Le Fort I osteotomy is discussed. 
Inhibition of interferon-inducible gene expression by adenovirus E1A proteins: block in transcriptional complex formation. Infection with wild-type adenovirus 5, but not with a mutant lacking the E1A gene, prevented the induction by interferon (IFN) alpha of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) activity in HeLaM cell lines that had been permanently transfected with chimeric CAT reporter genes driven by the transcriptional regulatory regions of the IFN-responsive genes 561 and 6-16. Similar inhibition of IFN-inducible CAT activity was observed in cells that were cotransfected with the same reporter genes and plasmids expressing either the E1A 289- or 243-amino acid protein. These proteins also prevented the induction of CAT activity by IFN-gamma from a cotransfected HLA-DR alpha-CAT gene. Experiments with E1A mutants mapped the inhibitory activity to amino acid residues 38-65 of these proteins. In a HeLa cell line permanently expressing the E1A 289-amino acid protein, the replication of vesicular stomatitis virus and encephalomyocarditis virus was not inhibited by IFN-alpha, suggesting a global blockade of IFN responses. In accord with this theory, induction of 561, 1-8, and (2'-5')oligoadenylate synthetase mRNAs by IFN was blocked in these cells at the transcriptional level. The observed transcriptional inhibition could be attributed to the lack of formation of the crucial IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) transcriptional complex. As shown by mobility shift assays, this complex was not formed in the nuclear extracts of IFN-treated adenovirus-infected cells or IFN-treated E1A-producing cells. These nuclear extracts were deficient in both ISGF3 alpha and ISGF3 gamma subunits. However, they did not block the formation of ISGF3 complex from exogenously added components. 
Acute airway obstruction in relapsing polychondritis: treatment with pulse methylprednisolone. We describe 2 adolescents with relapsing polychondritis who developed acute airway obstruction. Both were successfully treated with intravenous steroids for this complication following failure with oral steroids. Early respiratory tract involvement in younger patients seems predictive of a poor outcome and aggressive therapy with intravenous high dose steroids and/or immunosuppressive drugs appears to be indicated. 
Screening dyspepsia by serology to Helicobacter pylori. Owing to limited endoscopy resources, various screening strategies for endoscopy have been proposed. Helicobacter pylori can be detected with high sensitivity and specificity by serology, and therefore we assessed the effects on diagnostic accuracy and endoscopic workload of a policy of screening clinic patients with dyspepsia before endoscopy by a strategy based on age, Helicobacter pylori serology, and use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 1153 patients were studied, of whom 842 were of known histological H pylori status (histology group) and 293 had serum assessed prospectively by in-house and commercial ELISAs for detection of IgG antibodies to H pylori. Overall, the screening strategy would have reduced endoscopy workload by 23.3% (95% confidence interval 20.9-25.8%) and would have had a sensitivity for detection of peptic ulcer of 97.4% (94.5-99.1%). No peptic ulcer or malignant disease was missed in the patients studied prospectively, but 6 of 192 peptic ulcers in the histology group would have been missed. A policy of screening young dyspeptic patients for H pylori by serology is more sensitive than symptom-based screening strategies, and may have an important role in reducing endoscopy workload. 
Use of secondary prophylaxis against myocardial infarction in the north of England OBJECTIVE--To record the use of secondary prophylactic drugs in patients discharged from hospital having had a myocardial infarction. DESIGN--Prospective postal questionnaire survey of a random one in two sample of general practitioners in the region. SETTING--The nine family practitioner committee areas within the Northern Regional Health Authority. PATIENTS--Patients who had had a myocardial infarction and were discharged to their general practitioner. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Whether beta blockers or aspirin, or both, were given on discharge. RESULTS--Of 267 patients, 158 (59%) were treated suboptimally in that they did not receive a secondary prophylactic drug to which they had no contraindication. For most patients this entailed underuse of one drug, but 17 (6%) of patients received no treatment. beta Blockers were 2.5 times less likely to be used than aspirin. Treatment was not associated with the age or sex of the patient, risk of further infarction, or hospital of discharge. CONCLUSIONS--Secondary prophylaxis after myocardial infarction is practised haphazardly. It should be offered to all patients who can tolerate it, after a trial period to assess any side effects of the drugs if necessary. 
Management of the medial canthal tendon in nasoethmoid orbital fractures: the importance of the central fragment in classification and treatment. The medial canthal tendon and the fragment of bone on which it inserts ("central" fragment) are the critical factors in the diagnosis and treatment of nasoethmoid orbital fractures. The status of the tendon, the tendon-bearing bone segment, and the fracture pattern define a clinically useful classification system. Three patterns of fracture are appreciated: type I--single-segment central fragment; type II--comminuted central fragment with fractures remaining external to the medial canthal tendon insertion; and type III--comminuted central fragment with fractures extending into bone bearing the canthal insertion. Injuries are further classified as unilateral and bilateral and by their extension into other anatomic areas. The fracture pattern determines exposure and fixation. Inferior approaches alone are advised for unilateral single-segment injuries that are nondisplaced superiorly. Superior and inferior approaches are required for displaced unilateral single-segment injuries, for bilateral single-segment injuries, and for all comminuted fractures. Complete interfragment wiring of all segments is stabilized by junctional rigid fixation. All comminuted fractures require transnasal wiring of the bones of the medial orbital rim (medial canthal tendon-bearing or "central" bone fragment). If the fracture does not extend through the canthal insertion, the canthus should not be detached to accomplish the reduction. 
PAF-induced bowel necrosis. Effects of vasodilators. Ischemic bowel necrosis in the rat is produced by injecting platelet-activating factor (PAF) intravenously. Since intestinal hypoperfusion is observed after PAF injection, we hypothesize that mesenteric vasoconstriction is the mechanism of bowel injury. We thus studied the effects of vasodilators in this model. We found that: (1) Phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, ICI 198615 (leukotriene antagonist) and PGE1 counteracted the PAF-induced mesenteric flow reduction and ameliorated the bowel injury. However, phenoxybenzamine and prazosin were relatively ineffective in correcting PAF-induced hypotension, showing that bowel injury can be prevented independently of the hypotensive state. (2) Nitroglycerin failed to prevent bowel injury, although it improved the mesenteric blood flow. Thus, in opposition to our initial hypothesis, correction of the mesenteric flow reduction induced by PAF does not always prevent intestineal necrosis. (3) Only phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, ICI 198615, and PGE1 ameliorated PAF-induced hemoconcentration and bowel injury. This suggests a correlation between vascular injury (expressed by "leaky" vessels and the consequent hemoconcentration) and bowel necrosis. (4) Although both nitroglycerin and hydralazine relax smooth muscle, hydralazine seemed to aggravate bowel necrosis. The mechanism remains unclear. 
Greater loop chloride uptake contributes to blunted pressure natriuresis in Dahl salt sensitive rats. A blunted pressure natriuretic response is present in Dahl salt sensitive rats. To determine whether this results from tubular or glomerular mechanisms, late proximal, early distal, and late distal micropuncture were performed in salt resistant (R), salt sensitive (S), or salt sensitive rats with renal perfusion reduced to that of R rats (S-AC). Differences in neuro-endocrine background between groups were eliminated by renal denervation and by fixing plasma aldosterone, norepinephrine, and vasopressin levels by infusion. Renal perfusion pressure was greater (P less than 0.05) and inulin clearance less (P less than 0.05) in S than R rats. Urinary sodium excretion, however, was not different. S-AC had renal perfusion pressures that were similar to R rats and inulin clearance similar to S rats. Urinary NaCl excretion was less (P less than 0.05) than either group. Single nephron inulin clearance, fluid, and chloride delivery to late proximal sites were not different between groups. Absolute and fractional chloride delivery to early distal sites was less (P less than 0.05) in S-AC than R or S but not different between R and S. Late distal chloride delivery was not different between any group. Calculated loop chloride reabsorption was greater in S-AC than R or S. Thus, the lower urinary NaCl excretion in S-AC rats is in part due to increased loop chloride reabsorption. This effect is probably intrinsic to the S kidney as it occurs despite renal denervation when plasma levels of vasopressin, norepinephrine, and aldosterone are fixed. The increased loop chloride uptake is abolished when perfusion pressure increases. 
Fistula-in-ano in Crohn's disease. Results of aggressive surgical treatment. The outcome of aggressive surgical treatment of 64 symptomatic anal fistulas in 55 patients with Crohn's disease has been studied. Forty-one fistulas, in 33 patients, were treated by conventional fistulotomy (17 subcutaneous, 19 intersphincteric, 5 low transsphincteric fistulas). Thirty wounds (73 percent) healed within 3 months and eight more wounds (93 percent) healed within 6 months. Three wounds did not heal within 12-18 months. Two of these patients subsequently required proctocolectomy. Wound healing was not influenced by the presence of rectal Crohn's disease or granulomatous inflammation in the tract. No change in continence was experienced by 26 of the 33 patients who underwent fistulotomy. Three patients required proctocolectomy and the remaining four patients experienced minor degrees of incontinence postoperatively. Sixteen high transsphincteric, five suprasphincteric, and one extrasphincteric fistula in 22 patients were treated by laying open external tracts and placing a noncutting seton through the sphincter, which was left in place for prolonged periods to maintain drainage. During follow-up (6 months to 10 years, median 2.5 years), three fistulas healed and seven remained quiescent. Nine patients required further treatment by a new seton and three patients required proctocolectomy. Eight of the 22 patients who had a seton inserted had no change in continence, and six patients in this group developed minor changes in continence, mostly related to diarrhea associated with intestinal disease. Anal fistulas in Crohn's disease, which involve minimal sphincter muscle, can be successfully treated by fistulotomy. High fistulas should be treated with seton drainage to limit recurrent suppuration and preserve sphincter function. 
Clinical applications of carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography. During an 18-month period 33 patients in whom there were contraindications to the use of iodinated contrast arteriography underwent 40 carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriograms for lower extremity ischemia (19), severe hypertension and renal insufficiency (12), or arterial aneurysm (2). Contraindications to iodinated contrast agents included renal insufficiency, congestive heart failure, and contrast hypersensitivity. Sixteen aortic, 15 iliac-femoral-popliteal-tibial, five aorta-iliac-femoral and four aorta-iliac-femoral-popliteal-tibial carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography studies were performed. In 11 studies, imaging of selected arterial segments required the addition of 10 to 60 ml of dilute nonionic contrast. Guided by carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography studies four femoral-tibial bypasses, three aneurysmorrhaphies, two aortorenal bypasses, one aortofemoral bypass and one femoral-femoral bypass were successfully performed in 11 patients. In addition, carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography directed angioplasties of the common iliac (4), superficial femoral (6), popliteal (3), or tibioperoneal trunk (1) were performed in 10 patients. Complications of carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography included transient deterioration in renal function in three patients in whom 20 ml of nonionic contrast was used, a nonfatal myocardial infarction after a popliteal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in one patient, and transient tachypnea and tachycardia during a carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography study in one patient. Diagnostic arteriograms are obtainable using carbon dioxide as the contrast agent. Carbon dioxide/digital subtraction arteriography permits patients with symptomatic arterial disease at high risk for contrast related complications to safely undergo arteriography and subsequent arterial reconstruction or endovascular intervention. 
Myocardial perfusion imaging with thallium-201 to evaluate patients before and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Thallium-201 imaging may be used to help determine the distribution and amount of myocardium in jeopardy and the success of revascularization after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Single photon emission computed tomography is particularly advantageous because of its ability to differentiate vascular territories and thus evaluate patients with multivessel disease. Myocardial infarction resulting from complications such as distal embolization and side-branch occlusion can be detected. Thallium-201 imaging early after angioplasty may show abnormal results caused by transiently insufficient coronary flow reserve. However, studies performed 6 weeks or more after angioplasty accurately detect early restenosis and may identify those individuals likely to become symptomatic and eventually develop restenosis in the future. 
Comparative experience with smooth and polyurethane breast implants using the Kaplan-Meier method of survival analysis. Smooth-walled silicone implants have been widely used in breast surgery. Capsular contracture, causing undesirable firmness and spherical deformity, has been a common problem. Recent studies suggest that polyurethane-covered breast implants are associated with a lower incidence of capsular contracture. The statistical methodology employed in some of these studies, however, may be subject to criticism. Between July of 1984 and June of 1990 (72 months), 427 polyurethane breast implants were used in 279 patients and 439 smooth prostheses were used in 250 patients for a variety of aesthetic and reconstructive procedures. The occurrence of capsular contracture was carefully monitored and then analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method of survival analysis. This method is particularly well suited to analysis of these types of clinical data because it allows for the fact that contractures occur at varying intervals after surgery and that follow-up of patients is incomplete. The probability of capsular contracture with smooth-walled prostheses was found to be significantly greater than with polyurethane-covered implants in each group of patients studied (p less than 0.05). Other complications occurred at a similar rate regardless of prosthesis type. This study supports the belief that polyurethane breast implants have a lower contracture rate; furthermore, it introduces the Kaplan-Meier method for analyzing the outcome of alternative plastic surgical therapies. 
Limb-sparing surgery in skeletally immature patients with osteosarcoma. The use of an expandable prosthesis. Limb-sparing surgery has a definite role in the treatment of osteosarcoma in children. Increased survival, however, raises problems of limb-length discrepancy and prosthetic longevity. The concept of an expandable adjustable prosthesis addresses the problem of leg-length discrepancy. The problem of prosthesis longevity will require further long-term evaluation of current designs and methods of fixation, as well as the development of a permanent prosthesis or biologic replacement. At skeletal maturity, the expandable prosthesis may either be maintained or substituted with another implant or biological alternative if warranted by the clinical situation. 
Idiopathic myointimal hyperplasia of mesenteric veins. Nonthrombotic occlusion or stenosis of the mesenteric veins is a rare cause of intestinal ischemia that usually occurs in association with systemic vasculitis. The current report includes four male patients with segmental ischemic colitis caused by idiopathic myointimal hyperplasia in the small mesenteric veins and their intramural branches; neither vasculitis nor arterial involvement were present. Three of the four patients were less than or equal to 38 years of age; the fourth was 67. All four patients were previously healthy and had no history of drug use of any kind. Clinical findings included abdominal pain, diarrhea, bloody stools, and colonic strictures discovered by barium enema. The intima of the mesenteric and intestinal mural veins was focally thickened by a marked increase in cells and matrix between the endothelium and internal elastic lamina, whereas the vessel walls external to the thickened intima appeared normal. Histochemistry and immunoreactivity with antibodies to muscle-specific actins (HHF-35) disclosed that the intimal thickening was caused by proliferation of smooth muscle cells in a proteoglycan matrix. All patients recovered completely after segmental resection of the ischemic portion of the colon and had no recurrence of intestinal symptoms on follow-up of up to 7 years. These unusual venous lesions do not appear to have been previously described; their etiology and pathogenesis remain unknown. 
In situ human papillomavirus (HPV) genotyping of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in South African and British patients: evidence for putative HPV integration in vivo. In South Africa asymptomatic wart virus infection diagnosed by morphological criteria occurs in 16-20% of all ethnic groups; the incidence in black women is 66%. To identify human papillomavirus (HPV) types the prevalence of HPV in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) in South African women (n = 72) with age matched British women (n = 73) was compared by non-isotopic in situ hybridisation (NISH) using digoxigenin labelled probes for HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33 and 35 on archival biopsy specimens. A higher proportion of British biopsy specimens (68%) contained HPV than those from South Africa (50%) in CIN 2 and 3; this difference was due to HPV 16. Thirty six per cent of the positive biopsy specimens from South African women also contained HPV 33/35 compared with 16% in the United Kingdom. There was no difference in HPV detection with age in either group. These data indicate that HPV types vary geographically, with "minor" HPV types being more common in South Africa. Three qualitatively distinct NISH signals were observed; a diffuse (type 1) signal in superficial cells, mainly koilocytes; a punctate signal (type 2) in basal/"undifferentiated" cells in CIN 3; and combined type 1 and 2 signals in CIN with wart virus infection (type 3). The punctate signal may represent HPV integration. 
A controlled study of caudal epidural injections of triamcinolone plus procaine for the management of intractable sciatica. The management of sciatica due to lumbar nerve root compromise remains controversial, probably because few well-controlled studies of conservative management have been performed. This preliminary study assesses the efficacy of epidural injections of 80 mg triamcinolone acetonide plus 0.5% procaine hydrochloride in saline, administered via the caudal route, in a double-blind, placebo controlled trial with 1 year follow-up. Twenty-three patients were entered into the study: 12 received treatment and 11 placebo. The active group showed significant pain relief (P = 0.02) and a significant increase in mobility (P = 0.01) at 4 weeks, which resulted in improved quality of life (P = 0.02). At 1 year, subjective and objective measures improved in both groups. The improvement was greater in the actively treated group, but only the objective assessment (straight leg raise) was statistically significant. 
A prospective study of incisional time, blood loss, pain, and healing with carbon dioxide laser, scalpel, and electrosurgery. Carbon dioxide laser incisions are reported to be less painful, less bloody, and less prone to seroma formation and to heal better than scalpel or electrosurgical incisions. We compared all three modalities in a prospective randomized study of cholecystectomy incisions. Time required for the incision and incisional blood loss was less with electrosurgery than with the carbon dioxide laser or scalpel. Postoperative pain and wound healing, however, were the same for all three techniques. The carbon dioxide laser appears to offer no advantage over conventional means of making a standard incision. 
Glial swelling following human cerebral contusion: an ultrastructural study. The ultrastructural features of cerebral contusion seen three hours to 11 days after head injury were studied in 18 patients undergoing surgery. Massive astrocytic swelling ("cytotoxic" oedema) was seen three hours to three days after injury, maximal in perivascular foot processes, and compressing some of the underlying capillaries. The tight junctions were not disrupted. Neuronal damage was most marked three to 11 days after injury. The pathophysiological mechanisms leading to oedema formation and neuronal degeneration are discussed. 
Extraperitoneal approach for repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms are characterized by dense perianeurysmal fibrosis involving the adjacent organs. Attempts to isolate the aneurysm can lead to operative injuries of these structures, thus increasing the rates of complications and mortality. In the last 12 years 45 patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms underwent aneurysm resection at the Department of Vascular Surgery of the University of Rome. The aneurysm was resected through a standard, midline transperitoneal approach in 39 patients, through a thoracophrenolaparotomy in two patients, and through a left-flank extraperitoneal approach in the last four patients. The extraperitoneal approach simplified aneurysm dissection and aortic clamping with no cases of postoperative morbidity or death. In addition, we reviewed the CT scan findings of 12 patients surgically treated for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. The amount of fibrosis in the anterior wall of the aneurysm was greater than in the left posterolateral aspect (p = 0.008). We conclude that the left-flank extraperitoneal approach is the most anatomically advantageous route for repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
Induction of sustained patency after clot-selective coronary thrombolysis with Hybrid-B, a genetically engineered plasminogen activator with a prolonged biological half-life. BACKGROUND. Despite the utility of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) in eliciting coronary thrombolysis clinically, early reocclusion remains a problem, occurring despite anticoagulation in 5-30% of patients with initially successful recanalization. This study evaluated the utility of Hybrid-B, a molecular variant of t-PA with a prolonged half-life in the circulation, in eliciting coronary thrombolysis and maintaining patency in the presence of a continuing thrombogenic stimulus. METHODS AND RESULTS. In intact, anesthetized dogs, either 18 mg Hybrid-B over 30 minutes (n = 15) or 50 mg t-PA (Activase) over 60 minutes (n = 8) was administered starting 60 minutes after left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion was induced with a thrombogenic copper coil. Time to lysis averaged 54 +/- 26 (means +/- SD) minutes and 64 +/- 34 minutes with Hybrid-B and t-PA, respectively (p = NS). When Hybrid-B was administered as a bolus (20 mg over 1 minute) to induce a high initial concentration in blood, time to lysis was shortened markedly and averaged 15 +/- 5 minutes. Dogs given Hybrid-B by either infusion or bolus exhibited prolonged time to reocclusion (337 +/- 192 minutes compared with 192 +/- 125 minutes in dogs given t-PA, p less than 0.03), reflecting maintenance of a subthrombolytic but persistently active concentration of activator in blood. Despite the persistence of Hybrid-B in blood, concentrations of fibrinogen and alpha 2-antiplasmin were not depleted markedly and remained at 77 +/- 25 and 56 +/- 24%, respectively, of control values. CONCLUSIONS. Thus, Hybrid-B, a novel variant of t-PA with unique pharmacokinetic properties, elicits prompt, sustained, and clot-selective coronary thrombolysis. 
The use of masseter electromyography with electroneurography in the evaluation of facial paralysis. In the evaluation of facial paralysis, electroneurography provides a quantitative assessment of the degree of degeneration. Near the endpoint of degeneration, the facial musculature compound action potential may be contaminated by masseter artifact resulting from supramaximal stimulation. We propose the use of both masseter electromyography and electroneurography in the evaluation of advanced degeneration to better define the current level for supramaximal stimulation, to eliminate masseter artifact, and to more accurately assess the degree of facial nerve degeneration. 
Usefulness of weightlifting training in improving strength and maximal power output in coronary artery disease. The effects of 10 weeks (20 sessions) of combined weightlifting and aerobic training (n = 10) were compared with the effects of aerobic training alone (n = 8) on indexes of strength and aerobic exercise capacity in 18 men with coronary artery disease (CAD). Initial test performance was similar between groups. After aerobic training, the maximal load that could be lifted once only (1-repetition maximum) in single-arm curl, single-leg press and single-knee extension exercises increased by 13% (11.8 to 13.3 kg; p less than 0.01), 4% (97.0 to 101.0 kg; difference not significant) and 5% (28.2 to 29.7 kg; difference not significant), respectively; corresponding gains with combined weightlifting and aerobic training were 43% (12.2 to 17.4 kg; p less than 0.01), 21% (99.0 to 120.0 kg; p less than 0.01) and 24% (29.0 to 36.0 kg; p less than 0.01). After aerobic training, the initial 1-repetition maximum could be lifted an average of 4 times, compared with 14 times after combined training. Maximal progressive incremental cycle ergometer power output increased by 2% in the aerobic control group (1,088 to 1,113 kpm/min; difference not significant) and by 15% (1,030 to 1,180 kpm/min; p less than 0.05) in the experimental group. Cycling time at 80% of initial maximal power before attaining a Borg (0 to 10) rating of perceived exertion of 7 (very severe) increased by 11% (604 to 672 seconds; difference not significant) and by 109% (541 to 1,128 seconds; p less than 0.05) in the control and weight-trained patients, respectively. 
Neoplasms associated with pulmonary eosinophilic granuloma. We found a high prevalence of pulmonary and extrapulmonary neoplasms in patients with pulmonary eosinophilic granuloma (PEG) who were studied at our institution. Among 21 patients with PEG, 10 (48%) had associated benign (one patient) or malignant (nine patients) tumors. Patients with tumors were older at the time of diagnosis of PEG (48.9 vs 34.5 years). Tumors included three lung carcinomas, one pulmonary carcinoid tumor, two lymphomas, five extrapulmonary carcinomas, and one mediastinal ganglioneuroma. Two malignant neoplasms developed in each of two patients. Six tumors preceded, three followed, and three occurred concomitantly with the diagnosis of PEG. Slides from eight PEG-associated tumors and 18 control neoplasms from patients without PEG were also stained immunohistochemically for S100 protein. Four PEG-associated (50%) and 11 control (61%) tumors contained S100 protein-positive interstitial cells. Our study suggests, but does not prove, that there may be more than a random association between PEG and neoplasms. Cigarette smoking, moreover, is an important risk factor for both PEG and lung carcinomas. Our immunohistochemical findings indicate that S100 protein-positive cells in tumors usually bear little or no relationship to PEG. In patients with an underlying malignant neoplasm, PEG simulates pulmonary metastases clinically and, occasionally, histopathologically. 
One hundred patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer treated by resection: analysis of prognostic determinants. One hundred patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer underwent 'radical' liver resection from 1980 to 1989. At least 1 cm of normal parenchyma surrounded the tumour and no microscopic invasion of resection margins was evident. The disease was staged according to our own staging system. Lobectomy was performed in 50 patients and non-anatomical resection in the remainder. The postoperative mortality rate was 5 per cent and the major morbidity rate was 11 per cent. The actuarial 5-year survival rate for patients in stages I, II and III was 42 per cent, 34 per cent and 15 per cent respectively (P less than 0.001). The overall actuarial 5-year survival rate was 30 per cent. The prognostic importance of various patient and tumour variables was evaluated by univariate analysis and then by multivariate analysis. Age of patient, site of primary, disease-free interval between treatment of primary and of hepatic metastases, preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels, and number of metastases, did not relate to prognosis, while sex (P = 0.024), stage of primary (P = 0.026), extent of liver involvement (P less than 0.001), distribution of metastases (P = 0.01) and type of surgery (P = 0.028) significantly affected prognosis as single factors. Multivariate analysis revealed that only the extent of liver involvement and stage of the primary tumour were independent predictors of survival. We conclude that liver resection is effective in selected patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer. In resectable patients it is not yet possible to formulate a clear prognosis based on clinical factors. The extent of liver involvement and the staging system used may be significant, although not absolute, indicators of outcome. 
Secondary erythrocytosis due to a cerebellar hemangioblastoma: demonstration of erythropoietin mRNA in the tumor. Cerebellar hemangioblastoma is a rare cause of secondary erythrocytosis. Although the erythrocytosis is a result of erythropoietin (Ep) stimulation, direct evidence of Ep synthesis by the tumor has been lacking. In an erythrocytotic patient with a cerebellar hemangioblastoma we found elevated levels of Ep in the tumor cyst fluid and for the first time demonstrated Ep mRNA in the tumor by Northern blotting. This finding confirms cerebellar hemangioblastoma as a site of ectopic Ep production. 
Midazolam use in the emergency department. Midazolam is a new imidazobenzodiazepine derivative that is two to three times as potent as diazepam, is water-soluble, has a rapid onset and short duration of action, and produces a profound amnestic effect. These properties make it an extremely useful drug for outpatient sedation. We performed retrospective review of midazolam use in a general emergency department over a one-year period. Midazolam was used in 120 patients, 71 men and 49 women, with an average age of 46 years. The average dose given was 3.4 mg, with a range of 1 to 10 mg. In 69 of the cases (57%) other drugs were administered, most commonly an opiate. There were only four adverse reactions. One patient developed urinary retention, one patient vomited, and two patients were somnolent for a prolonged period of time. There were no serious cardiovascular or respiratory problems. We conclude that midazolam is a safe drug to use in the emergency department. Close monitoring of the patient and the availability of airway support equipment are mandatory. 
Risk factors for falls as a cause of hip fracture in women. The Northeast Hip Fracture Study Group. BACKGROUND. Although even in the elderly most falls are not associated with fractures, over 90 percent of hip fractures are the result of a fall. Few studies have assessed whether the risk factors for falls are also important risk factors for hip fracture. METHODS. To examine the importance of risk factors for falls in the epidemiology of hip fracture, we performed a case-control study of 174 women (median age, 80 years) admitted with a first hip fracture to 1 of 30 hospitals in New York and Philadelphia. Controls, matched to the case patients according to age and hospital, were selected from general surgical and orthopedic surgical hospital services. Information was obtained by direct interview. RESULTS. As measured by the odds ratio, increased risks for hip fracture were associated with lower-limb dysfunction (odds ratio = 1.7; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 2.8), visual impairment (odds ratio = 5.1; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.9 to 13.9), previous stroke (odds ratio = 2.0; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.0 to 4.0), Parkinson's disease (odds ratio = 9.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 76.1), and use of long-acting barbiturates (odds ratio = 5.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.6 to 45.0). Of the controls, 44 (25 percent) had had a recent fall. The case patients were more likely than these controls to have fallen from a standing height or higher (odds ratio = 2.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.0 to 5.7). Of those with hip fracture the younger patients (less than 75 years old) were more likely than the older ones (greater than or equal to 75 years old) to have fallen on a hard surface (odds ratio = 1.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.04 to 3.7). CONCLUSIONS. A number of factors that have been identified as risk factors for falls are also associated with hip fracture, including lower-limb dysfunction, neurologic conditions, barbiturate use, and visual impairment. Given the prevalence of these problems among the elderly, who are at highest risk, programs to prevent hip fracture should include measures to prevent falls in addition to measures to slow bone loss. 
Tumor markers in cancer of the colon and rectum. The primary role that tumor markers for cancer of the colon and rectum have at this time is for postoperative surveillance of those patients resected for cure who are at risk for recurrence of the disease. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) serum levels are followed by most surgeons prospectively after the potentially curative resection. This tumor marker has not been advocated as a screening test for these cancers; however, a preoperative CEA serum level is determined in those patients before the initial surgery for colon or rectal cancer. The serum level of CEA is mainly determined by tumor differentiation and stage of disease. If the CEA serum level begins to increase during the postoperative surveillance period, the recurrence of colon or rectal cancer must be suspected. Further investigations are then performed to identify the location and resectability of the recurrent disease. Monoclonal antibodies labeled with radioisotope are presently being used clinically to identify recurrence of colon and rectal cancer. Used in conjunction with elevated serum CEA levels (or other determinants of recurrent disease) these tumor markers can specifically identify site(s) of cancer recurrence. Theoretically, by attaching cancer-fighting agents (i.e., chemotherapeutic agents) to the monoclonal antibody, the site of tumor recurrence can be potentially treated, too. Hence, these "tumor-seeking missiles" may one day be used to treat cancer recurrence. 
Fluid collections developing after pancreatic transplantation: radiologic evaluation and intervention. The usefulness of real-time sonography, duplex sonography, computed tomography (CT), cystography, diagnostic aspiration, and percutaneous drainage in the diagnosis and treatment of peri-pancreatic-transplant fluid collections was retrospectively assessed in 46 recipients of extraperitoneal pancreatic transplants. Forty-four abnormalities were identified in the extraperitoneal space at sonography, including four pancreatic pseudocysts associated with malfunction of the pancreatic duct, seven abscesses, six hematomas, nine urinomas, six early postoperative fluid collections that spontaneously resolved, six cases of pancreatitis, and six cases of vascular occlusion. Sonography (including pulsed Doppler sonography) was the procedure of choice in detecting fluid collections and diagnosing pancreatitis, rejection, vascular thrombosis, and pancreatic duct malfunction. CT was diagnostic in four of six hematomas; cystography was diagnostic in seven of nine urinomas. Sonographically guided percutaneous intervention enabled three patients to avoid surgery and allowed optimal surgical planning for six patients. 
Reversible symptomatic biliary obstruction associated with ceftriaxone pseudolithiasis. Ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, has been associated with the development of sludge or stones in the gallbladders of some patients treated with this medication. Such precipitates, which are usually reversible upon discontinuation of the drug, sometimes cause symptoms, have simulated acute cholecystitis, and have even led to cholecystectomy in some cases. We report the first known instance of biliary obstruction and secondary pancreatitis in association with reversible ceftriaxone-induced pseudolithiasis. 
Serosal invasion as the single prognostic indicator in stage IIIA (T3N1M0) gastric cancer. Prognostic factors of gastric cancer with positive serosal invasion and regional lymph node metastasis were evaluated by multivariate analysis. Sixty-seven patients with the T3N1M0 subgroup of stage IIIA disease were evaluated, in which 34.9 +/- 13.4 nodes were dissected in extended lymph node dissection, and 6.5 +/- 6.2 were metastatic. Routine postoperative systemic chemotherapy with mitomycin C and N1-(2'-tetrahydrofuryl)-5-fluorouracil was administered. With this approach, the 5-year survival rate of stage IIIA disease was 47.6%. By Cox proportional hazards model, diameter of serosal invasion was the only significant determinant of prognosis in the T3N1M0 subgroup. The predicted 5-year survival rate for 24 patients with serosal invasion less than 3.0 cm in diameter was 59.5%, compared with 11.5% for 38 patients with invasion of 3.0 cm or larger in diameter. The number of metastatic nodes and the type of operation (total gastrectomy or less than total gastrectomy) did not affect the prognosis. When gastric cancer has both positive serosal invasion and metastatic regional lymph nodes, the diameter of serosal invasion is the more important factor for predicting prognosis. 
Typing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa ear infections related to outcome of treatment. Of 142 patients with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PSA) ear infections, 88 (62 per cent) had chronic otitis media and 54 (38 per cent) external otitis. Following serotyping and pyocin typing of their bacteria, and relating the type to outcome, patients could be divided into three groups: (1) 120 patients who had no recurrence with isolation of only one PSA strain, (2) 13 patients who had recurrent infections and in whom the same PSA strain was isolated in repeated cultures, and (3) nine patients who had recurrent disease, but who had a change in their PSA strains. Most of the PSA strains isolated from patients in groups (1) and (2) were stable to pyocin, and resistent to gentamicin. Patients in the first group were all cured initially by medical management. Of the nine patients in group (3) who had a different serotype on repeated cultures, medical treatment was successful in eight (89 per cent), but of the 13 patients in group (2) who had the same Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype cultured, medical therapy failed in six (46 per cent) and mastoid surgery was required. Serotyping of Pseudomonas aeruginosa otitis may be helpful in predicting the type of management in patients who have recurrent infections. 
Deep UV photochemistry of chemisorbed monolayers: patterned coplanar molecular assemblies. Deep ultraviolet (UV) irradiation is shown to modify organosilane self-assembled monolayer (SAM) films by a photocleavage mechanism, which renders the surface amenable to further SAM modification. Patterned UV exposure creates alternating regions of intact SAM film and hydrophilic, reactive sites. The exposed regions can undergo a second chemisorption reaction to produce an assembly of SAMs in the same molecular plane with similar substrate attachment chemistry. The UV-patterned films are used as a template for selective buildup of fluorophores, metals, and biological cells. 
Positron tomographic assessment of 16 alpha-[18F] fluoro-17 beta-estradiol uptake in metastatic breast carcinoma. The positron-emitting estrogenic steroid 16 alpha-[18F]fluoro-17 beta-estradiol (FES) has been shown to exhibit selective uptake in primary breast carcinomas; the uptake of tracer by positron emission tomography (PET) is strongly correlated with the tumor estrogen-receptor concentration. We have now extended the use of this radiopharmaceutical for imaging of metastases of breast carcinoma by PET in 16 patients with clinical or radiographic evidence of metastatic disease. Increased uptake of FES was identified on PET images in 53 of 57 metastatic lesions (93%); only two apparent false-positive foci of FES uptake were seen. In seven of the patients, evaluable PET studies were obtained both before and after initiation of antiestrogen therapy. In all cases, there was a decrease in FES uptake in the tumor deposits after initiation of antiestrogen therapy, and the mean (+/- standard deviation) uptake decreased from 2.22 (+/- 1.23) to 0.80 (+/- 0.42) x 10(3)+ dose/ml. These results indicate that PET with FES has high sensitivity and specificity for detecting metastatic breast carcinoma and provide additional confirmatory evidence that the tumor uptake of this ligand is a receptor-mediated process. 
Acute dacryocystic retention cured by inferior turbinate infracturing. A 30-year-old man with recurrent acute dacryocystic retention had successful infracturing of the inferior turbinate bone in association with probing of the lacrimal outflow system. Enlargement of the inferior nasal meatus by fracturing the turbinate is easy to do and would be indicated before recommending a dacryocystorhinostomy in cases of acute dacryocystic retention in which the causative cast is difficult to eliminate even by large probes that can be passed down the nasolacrimal duct. 
Anti-CD18 antibody attenuates neutropenia and alveolar capillary-membrane injury during gram-negative sepsis. Activated polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of acute lung injury (ALI) associated with sepsis. Adhesion of activated PMNs to endothelial monolayers is mediated by the CD18 adhesion-receptor complex on the PMN cell surface. Monoclonal antibody 60.3 (MoAb 60.3) blocks CD18-dependent PMN-endothelial adhesion in vitro and in vivo. This study was designed to determine the role of CD18-dependent PMN adhesion in ALI associated with gram-negative sepsis. Anesthetized, ventilated (FiO2 0.5, positive end-expiratory pressure 5 cm H2O) pigs received sterile saline (control, n = 8) or live Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 5 x 10(8) colony-forming units/ml at 0.3 ml/20 kg/min (septic, n = 9) for 1 hour. A third group (n = 7) received MoAb 60.3, 2 mg/kg intravenously, 15 minutes before Pseudomonas infusion. Animals were studied for 300 minutes. MoAb 60.3 significantly (p less than 0.05) attenuated the neutropenia seen in sepsis (15 +/- 1 vs 6 +/- 1 x 10(3) PMNs/mm3 at 300 min). Alveolar-capillary membrane injury was assessed by bronchoalveolar-lavage protein content and extravascular lung water determination. MoAb 60.3 significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced BAL protein at 300 minutes (388 +/- 75 vs 1059 +/- 216 micrograms/ml in septic animals) and attenuated the increase in extravascular lung water to 240 minutes (7.1 +/- 2 vs 14.2 +/- 1.2 ml/kg in septic animals). Systemic hypotension, decreased cardiac index, pulmonary hypertension, and relative hypoxemia, all characteristic of this model, were not altered by MoAb 60.3. These data suggest that, in this model of septic ALI, neutropenia is, in part, CD18 dependent and that blocking CD18-dependent PMN adhesion protects the alveolar-capillary membrane independently of altered hemodynamic status. 
Evidence for central alpha-2 adrenoceptors, not imidazoline binding sites, mediating the ethanol-attenuating properties of alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists. The role of central adrenoceptors in the ethanol-attenuating effects of alpha-2 adrenoceptor blockers was investigated in mice; the centrally active antagonist atipamezole was compared with L 659,066, which penetrates the brain poorly. L 659,066 (1-10 mg/kg) had no effect on the hypothermia induced by ethanol (2 g/kg) or ethanol ataxia (2.4 g/kg), whereas atipamezole (1 mg/kg) significantly attenuated both ethanol-induced hypothermia and ataxia. Atipamezole (1-3 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the ethanol-induced reduction in exploratory head-dipping in a holeboard test whereas L 659,066 was only effective at a dose of 1 mg/kg, higher doses (3 and 10 mg/kg) and a lower dose (0.3 mg/kg) were ineffective. Atipamezole was without effect on ethanol's locomotor stimulant effect in the holeboard but L 659,066 attenuated this effect at doses less than 3 mg/kg Many alpha-2 adrenoceptor ligands also have affinity for nonadrenergic imidazoline-binding sites. The role these sites may play in attenuating ethanol's effects was investigated by comparing RX 821002 (methoxy idazoxan), which has little or no affinity for imidazoline-binding sites with atipamezole. Both atipamezo 1 e (1 mg/kg) and RX 821002 (0.06-0.2 mg/kg) significantly attenuated ethanol-induced hypothermia, ataxia and reduction in head-dipping, but were without effect on ethanol-induced locomotor stimulation. These results suggest that nonadrenergic imidazoline-binding sites are not implicated in the ethanol-attenuating properties of alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists. 
Pulmonary oedema following relief of upper airway obstruction in the Pierre-Robin syndrome: a consequence of early palatal repair? Pulmonary oedema occurred following relief of an acute upper airway obstruction in an infant with Pierre-Robin syndrome undergoing cleft palate repair. We anticipate an increased prevalence of this phenomenon in view of the present trend for early palatal repair, and would advocate the routine use of a nasopharyngeal airway after operation in infants with severe micrognathia. 
Assessing the denominator problem in community-oriented primary care. Determination of health care needs is an essential cornerstone of community-oriented primary care (COPC). Many physicians, lacking research resources, may generalize their own patient registry data to the community. But practice populations are likely to differ significantly from community populations. This study compared demographics, health status, and medical care utilization in a sample of 990 elderly living in the community and 250 elderly patients registered at the St. Elizabeth Hospital Family Health Center in Youngstown, Ohio. The community survey and patient registries were comparable on key demographic characteristics. But statistically significant differences were observed for functional status and a number of chronic medical conditions. Comparisons of symptomatology, use of health aides, subjective health status, depression, and stress produced no significant differences. Overall health care utilization patterns were similar. The elderly family health center patients were more representative of the non-institutionalized elderly in the community than expected. And although the clinical significance remains uncertain, these findings suggest that this practice sample may be used with caution for COPC planning. But considerably more research must be undertaken in a variety of practice settings before the use of practice populations for COPC planning is widely applied. 
Comparison of thermodilution and transthoracic electrical bioimpedance cardiac outputs. Current methods of measuring cardiac output require the invasive insertion of a thermodilution catheter with its concomitant risks and complications. We examined the noninvasive method of transthoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) in comparison with thermodilution cardiac outputs in a sample of 44 critically ill patients with poor left ventricular function (left ventricular ejection fraction less than 30%) and with either ischemic or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Dyspnea, mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation, and difference between real and ideal weight had the most marked effects on the correlation between the two methods, with lesser influence by left ventricular ejection fraction, height, weight, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and aortic regurgitation. TEB and thermodilution cardiac outputs were correlated, at r = 0.51 (p less than 0.00009), but the low reliability and low percentage of TEB readings within 0.5 L/min of thermodilution cardiac outputs (31%) renders TEB inadequate for clinical measurement of cardiac outputs in this patient population. 
Rationale for treatment. Based on substantial evidence, the 1984 NIH Consensus Development Conference concluded that the treatment of total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol elevations with diet and, when necessary, with drugs, can reduce the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). Accordingly, in 1988 the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) published guidelines for defining moderate-, borderline-high-, and high-risk categories for CAD. Many clinical trials have supported the benefits of antihyperlipidemic therapy. Evidence from the Coronary Primary Prevention Trial gave rise to the "2:1 ratio," i.e., that a 1% reduction in total cholesterol level is associated with a 2% decrease in CAD events. The Helsinki Heart Study results indicated that additional benefit may be obtained by raising high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels. Dramatic reductions in LDL and total cholesterol were achieved by the Program on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias, which also achieved a 35% reduction in CAD events and a two-thirds reduction in both coronary bypass operations and angioplasties. Long-term benefits of cholesterol lowering in terms of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality have been shown in the Coronary Drug Project and the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial. Two major studies that have documented angiographic changes as a result of cholesterol lowering are the Cholesterol-Lowering Atherosclerosis Study (CLAS) and the Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS). In both CLAS and FATS, there was a decrease in the development of new lesions and a lowering of the rate of progression of existing lesions. In FATS, there was also evidence that aggressive antihyperlipidemic therapy will decrease existing lesions in some CAD patients. 
Postoperative radiotherapy in the management of spinal cord ependymoma. Fifty-eight patients with histologically verified spinal cord ependymomas were treated at the Royal Marsden Hospital and Atkinson Morley's Hospital between 1950 and 1987. The median age in this series was 40 years (range 1 to 79 years) and the male:female ratio was 1.8:1. Ten patients had tumors in the cervical cord and 10 in the thoracic cord; 14 tumors involved the conus medullaris and 24 the cauda equina. Forty ependymomas were grade I and 13 were grades II to IV (in five patients there was insufficient material for grading). Eleven patients underwent biopsy only, 33 had partial or subtotal resection, and 14 had complete resection. Forty-three patients received postoperative radiotherapy. The median follow-up period was 70 months (range 3 to 408 months). Cause-specific survival rates were 74% and 68% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. On univariate analysis, age, histological grade, postoperative neurological function, and era of treatment were significant prognostic factors for survival. The histological grade was the only significant independent prognostic factor. The relative risk of death from ependymoma was 9.0 for patients with tumor grades II to IV compared to grade I (p less than 0.005, 95% confidence interval 2.7 to 30). The survival rates of patients following complete excision were significantly better compared to those after incomplete surgery (p less than 0.025). The majority of completely resected neoplasms were low-grade cauda equina tumors. Despite incomplete surgery, 5- and 10-year progression-free survival rates following radical radiotherapy were both 59%, and cause-specific survival rates were 69% at 5 years and 62% at 10 years. This suggests that radiotherapy may achieve long-term tumor control in over half of those patients with residual spinal ependymoma. 
The morphometric histopathology of undescended testes and testes associated with incarcerated inguinal hernia: a comparative study. The underlying injury to undescended testes may be hormonal, a transient perinatal form fruste of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism characterized by blunting of the surge in gonadotropins normally seen at age 60 to 90 days. Ischemia is the underlying injury to testes associated with incarcerated inguinal hernias. To determine if the histopathology of these 2 injuries is different histomorphometric analyses were performed on semithin microscopic sections of biopsies of 21 control testes, 17 undescended testes and 13 intrascrotal testes associated with incarcerated inguinal hernias. The infants in all groups were 30 to 120 days old. The results showed that, as in previous studies, undescended testes at this age are characterized by hypoplasia of Leydig cells, normal germ cell counts and defective maturation of gonocytes into adult dark spermatogonia. In contrast, testes associated with incarcerated inguinal hernias were characterized by hyperplasia of Leydig cells, reduced germ cell counts and normal maturation of gonocytes into adult dark spermatogonia. One might conclude that the underlying injury of undescended testes, presumably the blunted surge of gonadotropins, causes a primary hypoplasia and hypofunction of Leydig cells, which in turn causes a secondary defect in transformation of gonocytes into spermatogonia. In contrast, ischemia may primarily cause a tubular epithelial lesion leaving the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis intact and allowing normal transformation of gonocytes into spermatogonia. Reduced gonadotropins and ischemia appear to produce distinctly different primary and secondary pathophysiological effects on the testes. 
Laser-assisted angioplasty in the treatment of prosthetic graft stenosis. Late failure of peripheral bypass grafts has been treated primarily by secondary reconstruction. Laser-assisted angioplasty is an optional therapy that the authors investigated in 28 prosthetic grafts over a two-year period. Twenty-five symptomatic patients with 28 peripheral prosthetic arterial bypass grafts (25 polytetrafluoroethylene [PTFE] grafts and 1 each of knitted Dacron, Teflon, and umbilical vein) demonstrated graft occlusion (25) or high-grade stenoses (3). All patients underwent standard laser-assisted angioplasty using a continuous wave Nd:YAG laser source and hybrid probe. Twenty-one grafts (75%) were successfully recanalized with adequate restoration of flow through the conduit. All 7 failures were in occluded PTFE grafts that presented with either recalcitrant lesions (5) or perforations (2) at the distal anastomoses. There have been 3 long-term failures (14%) to date in the successfully treated group, all in PTFE grafts. Two patients suffered recurrent thrombosis and 1 developed an inexplicable graft infection five months after laser treatment. Laser-assisted angioplasty appears to be a clinically viable alternative treatment for prosthetic graft stenosis and recanalization of grafts occluded at their distal anastomosis. 
In vivo use of a radioiodinated somatostatin analogue: dynamics, metabolism, and binding to somatostatin receptor-positive tumors in man Somatostatin analogues, labeled with gamma-emitting radionuclides, are of potential value in the localization of somatostatin receptor-positive tumors with gamma camera imaging. We investigated the application in man of a radioiodinated analogue of somatostatin, 123I-Tyr-3-octreotide, which has similar biologic characteristics as the native peptide. The radiopharmaceutical is cleared rapidly from the circulation (up to 85% of the dose after 10 min) mainly by the liver. Liver radioactivity is rapidly excreted into the biliary system. Until 3 hr after injection, radioactivity in the circulation is mainly in the form of 123I-Tyr-3-octreotide. Thereafter, plasma samples contain increasing proportions of free iodide. Similarly, during the first hours after injection, radioactivity in the urine exists mainly in the form of the unchanged peptide. Thereafter, a progressive increase in radioiodide excretion is observed, indicating degradation of the radiopharmaceutical in vivo. Fecal excretion of radioactivity amounts to only a few percent of the dose. The calculated median effective dose equivalent is comparable with values for applications of other 123I-radiopharmaceuticals (0.019 mSv/MBq). 
Myocardial echinococcosis with perforation into the pericardium. Though rare, cardiac echinococcosis should be included in the differential diagnosis of cardiac tumors, particularly in patients originating from endemic areas or with manifestation of hydatid disease in other organs. Diagnosis and localisation of the cysts is best accomplished with non-invasive methods such as 2-D transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography, computed tomography and NMR. Excision of the cardiac cyst from the interventricular septum in a 21 year old patient with polyvisceral echinococcosis was performed with cardiopulmonary bypass. Adjunctive medical therapy with mebendazol is being continued for 24 months postoperatively. Twelve months after surgery the patient is asymptomatic without echocardiographic signs of recurrence. 
Vitamin B6 is effective therapy for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy: a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Fifty-nine women completed a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B6) for the treatment of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. Thirty-one patients received vitamin B6, 25-mg tablets orally every 8 hours for 72 hours, and 28 patients received placebo in the same regimen. Patients were categorized according to the presence of vomiting: severe nausea (score greater than 7) or mild to moderate nausea (score of 7 or less). The severity of nausea (as graded on a visual analogue scale of 1-10 cm) and the number of patients with vomiting over a 72-hour period were used to evaluate response to therapy. Twelve of 31 patients in the vitamin B6 group had a pre-treatment nausea score greater than 7 (severe) (mean 8.2 +/- 0.8), as did ten of 28 patients in the placebo group (mean 8.7 +/- 0.9) (not significant). Following therapy, there was a significant difference in the mean "difference in nausea" score (ie, baseline - post-therapy nausea) between patients with severe nausea receiving vitamin B6 (mean 4.3 +/- 2.1) and placebo (mean 1.8 +/- 2.2) (P less than .01). In patients with mild to moderate nausea and in the group as a whole, no significant difference between treatment and placebo was observed. Fifteen of 31 vitamin B6-treated patients had vomiting before therapy, compared with ten of 28 in the placebo group (not significant). At the completion of 3 days of therapy, only eight of 31 patients in the vitamin B6 group had any vomiting, compared with 15 of 28 patients in the placebo group (P less than .05). 
Effect of otitis media on infrared tympanic thermometry. This study was designed to determine if temperature readings using a new tympanic thermometer are affected by otitis media. These readings were also compared to a rectal or oral temperature. Eighty-four children with unilateral suppurative or non-suppurative otitis media diagnosed clinically by their pediatricians were enrolled in the study. Temperatures were measured in both ears using the Thermoscan PRO-1 Instant Thermometer and rectally or orally by a glass or electronic predictive thermometer. For 67 children with unilateral suppurative otitis media the mean temperature in infected ears was 0.38 degrees Fahrenheit higher than in uninfected ears (p = .005). Neither temperatures measured in affected nor those from unaffected ears differed significantly from oral or rectal control readings. For 17 children with unilateral non-suppurative otitis media there was no statistically significant difference between temperatures in affected and unaffected ears or between the temperatures in either ear and the oral or rectal control. Our data show that temperatures taken in ears with suppurative otitis media are slightly higher than those in normal ears. This difference is of minimal clinical significance and does not affect the accuracy when compared to oral or rectal control readings. 
Electrophysiologic analysis of early Parkinson's disease. We have been interested in the application of quantitative measures of motor performance as a possible means of early detection of Parkinson's disease. To assess motor function, we have measured movement time (the physiologic correlate of bradykinesia) and reaction time (simple and directional choice) with an upper limb motor task, and tremor with accelerometry and electromyographic recordings. In this report we describe preliminary data from a Parkinson's disease patient group with symptoms of fewer than 2 years' average duration (compared with an age- and gender-matched normal control group) which indicate that precise, quantitative tests of motor function can detect the slight deviations from normal that are present in early Parkinson's disease. It appears that tests of bradykinesia are most sensitive, and detection of rest tremor is most specific. These tests may be applicable in screening individuals who are suspected of having or are "at risk for" Parkinson's disease and other related disorders. 
Inguinal endometriosis: pathogenetic and clinical implications. In six women with a preoperative diagnosis of incarcerated hernia, surgical exploration of the groin revealed inguinal endometriosis and no hernia. The affected structure was always the extraperitoneal portion of the round ligament. Six of the seven lesions were on the right. Intraperitoneal endometriosis was demonstrated in all patients. Catamenial pain was the pathognomonic symptom in the differential diagnosis of the inguinal mass. Gynecologists and surgeons should bear in mind the possibility that endometriosis may be the cause of symptoms of a suspected incarcerated inguinal hernia. Should this disease be detected at inguinal exploration, a laparoscopy is indicated during the same operation. 
Malignant hepatic tumors: P-31 MR spectroscopy with one-dimensional chemical shift imaging. To determine the clinical feasibility and applicability of phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and to assess its potential for characterization of human hepatic tissue, one-dimensional chemical shift imaging (CSI) was performed in 37 patients with various malignant hepatic neoplasms (30 metastases from a variety of primary tumors and seven hepatocellular carcinomas) and seven healthy volunteers. Tumors were grouped according to the percentage of the analyzed section that was occupied by tumor: less than 50% (group A) or more than 50% (group B). In group B, all phosphomonoester/beta-adenosine triphosphate ratios were significantly higher than normal (P less than .001). Hepatocellular carcinomas and metastases from various primary neoplasms could not be differentiated on the basis of spectral characteristics and metabolite ratios. Limitations of one-dimensional surface coil CSI prevented separation of spectra of small tumors and tumors deep within the liver parenchyma from spectra of normal liver parenchyma. 
Monocyte zinc and in vitro prostaglandin E2 and interleukin-1 beta production by cultured peripheral blood monocytes in patients with Crohn's disease. This study investigated the relationship between zinc status and prostaglandin E2 and interleukin-1 beta production by cultured monocytes in patients with Crohn's disease. Monocyte zinc was significantly decreased in both 12 inpatients and 22 outpatients compared with controls (P less than 0.001) but lymphocyte and polymorphonuclear cell zinc were normal. When cultured monocytes from 10 outpatients with Crohn's disease were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide, prostaglandin E2 production increased markedly, coupled with a fall in monocyte zinc. In matched controls, prostaglandin E2 production was significantly less and monocyte zinc remained stable. No difference in interleukin-1 release was noted between patients and controls. The addition of prednisolone to cell cultures suppressed prostaglandin E2, interleukin-1 synthesis, and monocyte zinc did not change. Zinc chloride augmented prostaglandin E2 production in patients, but not controls, and interleukin-1 remained stable. These results demonstrate a link between low monocyte zinc concentration and excessive prostaglandin production in patients with Crohn's disease. 
Depression and chronic fatigue in the workplace. Workers' compensation and occupational issues. There is ample evidence that some forms of depression can be caused or aggravated by work. The relationship of work and chronic fatigue syndrome is questionable, but elements at work can aggravate the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome. The role of physicians who can support or discourage beliefs about physical illness is all important, both by what they say and how they treat. In the process of interaction, they can promote or discourage disability. The role of the physician in the workplace is to determine if an illness is work related, if it is disabling, if it requires treatment, and what treatment. The physician must advise if the worker can continue in his or her usual and customary employment and, if not, if he or she can be vocationally rehabilitated from a medical standpoint. Conditions in which physical symptoms are unsupported by physical findings and have diagnostic labels that describe the disorder without indicating either cause or pathology are especially troubling for the physician who must decide if the patient's job caused the symptoms. 
Practice patterns and costs of hospitalization for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. We conducted an observational study at three hospitals in Boston to examine the patterns of practice and the costs involved in the medical management of noncirrhotic, upper gastrointestinal bleeding. A total of 111 patients were identified and studied: 42 from hospital 1, 38 from hospital 2, and 31 from hospital 3. There were no significant differences in the management of the patients, except for the more frequent use of upper gastrointestinal radiography at hospital 3 and the more frequent use of cimetidine at hospital 2. Only a small percentage (3-7%) of patients required surgery, and overall mortality (0-8%) was low. The average cost of hospitalization, determined by using the New England Medical Center cost model, was calculated for direct costs ($3,180). The majority of costs incurred were for hospital bed or intensive care unit stay (63%) and transfusion of blood products (14%), with costs for physicians' services (9%), endoscopy (2%), and upper gastrointestinal radiography (1%) accounting for only a small percentage. This study demonstrates remarkable similarity in practice patterns and resource utilization at three different hospitals and provides data on the actual costs involved in hospitalization for noncirrhotic, upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. 
Surgical correction of coarctation in early infancy: does surgical technique influence the result? Between 1979 and 1988, a total of 53 infants less than 1 year of age underwent repair of coarctation. Thirty-seven patients (70%) were younger than 3 months. Median age was 0.9 month. Four different surgical techniques were used: resection with end-to-end anastomosis, patch enlargement, subclavian flap aortoplasty, and subclavian displacement aortoplasty (Meier-Mendonca technique). Hospital mortality was 7.5% and was limited to patients with additional complex intracardiac defects. Neither age nor surgical technique had an influence on the operative risk. Follow-up averaged 15 to 43 months for the four different groups. Restenosis developed in 9 (19%) of 47 patients regularly followed up, 5 (11%) of whom have had reoperation. Age at operation was not a predictor for restenosis, which occurred in 17.4% of patients less than 1 month and 20.8% of those greater than 1 month of age at operation. Patch enlargement and the subclavian displacement technique demonstrated the highest restenosis rates (42% and 43%, respectively). However, patients who underwent patch enlargement had less favorable pathological conditions. It is concluded that results of coarctation repair in early infancy do not depend as much on the operative method itself as on the specific pathological aspect, which largely determines the method of treatment. Some reservation must be made in regard to the subclavian displacement technique. 
Characterization of target injury of murine acute graft-versus-host disease directed to multiple minor histocompatibility antigens elicited by either CD4+ or CD8+ effector cells. The precise identity of effector mononuclear cells capable of eliciting acute graft-versus-host disease (AGVHD) is controversial. In this study, highly purified subsets of donor T cells were used to produce AGVHD to multiple minor histocompatibility (H) antigens in two strain combinations of mice matched for the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). In the C3H.SW- greater than B6 strain combination, only CD8+ effector cells produced histologic evidence of AGVHD in skin and liver, which peaked 3 weeks after transplant. In the B10.D2- greater than DBA/2 strain combination, CD4+ effector cells, and to a lesser extent, CD8+ cells, mediated disease in skin, liver, and intestine, which peaked during the fourth week after transplant. Analysis of skin and liver from both combinations showed target cell injury that was phenotypically similar and resembled that previously described in human disease in other studies. In addition, prominent epithelial injury also was detected in oropharyngeal mucosa, esophagus, hepatobiliary ducts, and seminal vesicle in both transplant settings. These findings indicate that functionally different subsets of donor T cells may be capable of initiating common pathways of cellular injury in selected target sites in AGVHD, and have potential implications for strategies that seek to ablate disease development by manipulation of donor marrow before transplantation. 
Diarrhea, respiratory infections, and growth are not affected by a weekly low-dose vitamin A supplement: a masked, controlled field trial in children in southern India. Incidence, duration, and severity of diarrhea and respiratory symptoms were monitored weekly for 1 y in 15,419 children 6-60 mo of age in a randomized, placebo-controlled, masked clinical trial conducted in southern India. Half the children received weekly doses of 8.7 mumol (2500 microgram) vitamin A and 46 mumol (20 mg) vitamin E (treated) and the other half, 46 mumol vitamin E (control). Medical and ocular examinations and anthropometric measurements were obtained before and after 52 wk of intervention. Ocular examinations also were obtained after 26 wk. Supplements were delivered weekly from calibrated dispenser bottles by community health volunteers who also recorded each mother's recall of daily morbidity of her child during the previous week. Baseline characteristics of treated and control subjects were similar and documented a prevalence of 11% xerophthalmia and 72% undernutrition. Weekly treatment with the low-dose vitamin A supplement did not influence the incidence, severity, or duration of diarrhea or respiratory infections and did not influence linear or ponderal growth. 
Alcoholism in women. Women differ from men in their drinking patterns and in the biologic consequences of alcohol use. Women more often drink at home and conceal their drinking behavior. Because women have a higher percentage of body fat and a lower percentage of body water than men, the same amount of alcohol causes more severe toxic effects in women than in men. Heavy alcohol consumption in women is associated with gynecologic dysfunction and fetal alcohol syndrome. Depression, anxiety or other psychiatric illness is also common in women alcoholics. Family physicians should be alert to the subtle behaviors that suggest alcoholism and be familiar with the available community resources and treatment options. 
Transperineurial vessel constriction in an edematous neuropathy. The hypothesis that the accumulation of endoneurial edema can exert forces sufficient to occlude transperineurial vessels was tested using light microscopy and computer-assisted morphometry in rat sciatic nerve. Experimental nerves were exposed to a concentration of 10% procaine HCl, which from previous studies has been demonstrated to routinely produce an edematous neuropathy. For each vessel, a "constriction ratio" was defined by dividing its minimum intraperineurial lumen area by the average for minimum endoneurial and epineurial lumen cross-sectional areas. Constriction ratios were 0.91 +/- 0.26 (mean +/- SD) for control vessels and 0.28 +/- 0.25 for vessels in the procaine group (p less than 0.005). In addition, a strong negative correlation was observed between the morphologic demonstration of nerve edema and the transperineurial vessel constriction ratio (r = -0.85; p less than 0.002). It is concluded that in neuropathies characterized by widespread edema and increased endoneurial fluid pressures, the concomitant constriction of transperineurial vessels could diminish nerve blood flow and facilitate nerve injury. 
Successful long-term control of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome with etoposide. A 38-year-old man with idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome had an inadequate response to steroids and severe side effects from hydroxyurea treatment, which necessitated withdrawal of the treatment. Successful control of clinical symptoms and eosinophil counts was obtained with etoposide (VP16-213) for 18 months. VP16-213 may be valuable in idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome treatment. 
Pediatric heart transplantation at Stanford: results of a 15-year experience. The long-term results of pediatric heart transplantation were evaluated in 53 patients, aged 0.25 to 18.94 years, who received transplants at Stanford University Medical Center between 1974 and 1989. Indications for transplantation were idiopathic cardiomyopathy (68%), congenital heart disease (21%), endocardial fibroelastosis (8%), and doxorubicin cardiomyopathy (3%). Immunosuppression was achieved with combinations of cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine. Thirty-seven of 42 recipients leaving the hospital after transplantation were alive and in New York Heart Association class I at study's end. Cumulative survival was 79% at 1 year, 76% at 3 years, and 69% at 5 years. Fourteen recipients have survived more than 5 years (5.1 to 12.4 years). Hospital readmission for illness has been infrequent, decreasing from 6.8 days to 0.9 days per year over 5 years. Eleven patients have required no rehospitalization. Posttransplant deaths were due to infection (19%), rejection (4%), pulmonary hypertension (4%), coronary artery disease (2%), and lymphoproliferative disease (2%). Retransplantation was required for intractable rejection in 4 patients and advanced coronary artery disease in 2. Hypertension and elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels were common in individuals receiving cyclosporine. Growth was often impaired in prepubertal children receiving daily prednisone. Based on this 15-year experience, it is concluded that heart transplantation represents a reasonable alternative for selected young patients with end-stage cardiac disease. 
The noncemented porous-coated hip prosthesis. A three-year clinical follow-up study and roentgenographic analysis. This was a retrospective study reviewing 68 hip arthroplasties performed with noncemented, porous-coated components at three institutions in the period between December 1983 and June 1987. Fifty of these were available for follow-up study. The mean follow-up period was three years (range, 18-56 months). Thirty-seven patients were treated by total hip arthroplasty (THA) with porous-coated components, and thirteen were implanted with porous-coated femoral stems with bipolar endoprostheses using a porous-coated femoral stem and a universal head. The mean Harris hip score at follow-up evaluation for the entire group was 85.7 points. Eighty percent of the patients had either a good or excellent result. Those patients implanted with a porous femoral stem with bipolar acetabular components had only 54% good or excellent results compared with 90% good or excellent results for those having THA. Roentgenographic findings included a 59% rate of femoral neck cortex osteopenia, an 80% rate of medial or lateral distal cortical hypertrophy, and an 80% rate of distal bone bridging. All of these roentgenographic changes were secondary to changes in stress transference to the proximal femur. There was no correlation between thigh pain or the degree of bone-prosthesis radiolucencies and the fit of the femoral stem. 
General moderate hypothermia in the surgical treatment of descending thoracic aortic aneurysms. The diagnosis and surgical treatment of aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta is difficult and some aspects of management remain controversial. We report 53 patients treated in the period 1983-1988; 25.9% of them had previously been erroneously diagnosed as having mediastinal cysts or tumours. Duplex scanning and computerised tomography were valuable adjuncts in establishing the correct diagnosis, which was confirmed by aortography in 52 patients. Of 49 patients operated upon electively three died with a mortality rate of 6.1%; of the 4 patients operated upon as emergencies 2 died. Fifty patients survived the operative procedure and of the 3 operated upon under normothermia 1 developed paraplegia, whereas of the 47 patients operated upon under moderate hypothermia (30 degrees-31 degrees C) only 1 developed paraplegia. 
Concentration of cefuroxime in serum and middle ear effusion after single dose treatment with cefuroxime axetil. Antimicrobial agents play an important role in the treatment of patients with acute otitis media and otitis media with effusion (OME). The study was undertaken to determine the concentrations of cefuroxime in the blood and middle ear effusions (MEE) of children between 6 and 12 years of age with acute otitis media and chronic OME after a single oral dose administration of cefuroxime axetil, the ester prodrug of cefuroxime. Cefuroxime axetil (250 mg) was administered 2 to 6 hours before either myringotomy for acute otitis media or myringotomy and tube insertion for chronic OME. Blood samples and middle ear aspirates were obtained from 31 children and the samples were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. Cefuroxime was recovered in measurable concentrations in all serum samples and in 15 (79%) of the 19 MEE specimens analyzed. No correlation was seen between cefuroxime MEE concentrations and effusion type, bacteriology or serum concentrations. This study shows that cefuroxime does penetrate into MEE when OME is present and that therapeutic concentrations can be achieved in some patients. 
Symptom reporting in wanted and unwanted pregnancies. This study examined the association between unwanted pregnancy and the reporting of pregnancy symptoms in a sample of 99 pregnant women drawn from an urban, medical school based family practice residency. Of these women, 51 had unwanted pregnancies, and 48 had wanted pregnancies. Women with wanted pregnancies were more likely than women with unwanted pregnancies to report three pregnancy symptoms (amenorrhea, breast tenderness, and morning sickness). This association of symptoms with a wanted pregnancy persisted after controlling for age, race, marital status, contraceptive use, menstrual irregularity, and days since last menses through multiple logistic regression. Findings suggest that symptoms may be underreported by women with unwanted pregnancies. 
Current treatment for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome: results and surgical implications. From July 1986 to January 1991, 123 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome underwent operation for ablation of aberrant conduction pathways. There were 85 male and 38 female patients ranging in age from 11 months to 68 years. Associated anomalies included Ebstein's anomaly, sudden death syndrome, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, abdominal aortic aneurysm, neurofibromatosis, other arrhythmias, or other complex congenital heart disease. Forty-one patients had multiple accessory pathways. Operative results showed a 7% initial failure rate, which dropped to 3% after reoperation. One patient had undergone previous operation for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome at another institution. Procedures performed concomitantly included mitral or tricuspid valve repair or replacement (6), right ventricular conduit replacement, subaortic resection, Fontan repair, corrected transposition repair, coronary artery bypass, and placement of an automatic internal cardioverter defibrillator. There was no operative mortality. Late follow-up is 27 +/- 16 months, and complications included mitral regurgitation and myocardial infarction. By comparison, in the last 12 months 124 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome underwent catheter ablation using radiofrequency current. There were 9 patients with multiple pathways. One hundred twelve patients (90%) had all accessory atrioventricular connections ablated and have remained free of symptomatic tachycardia. There have been 12 failures (10%), of which 5 have had operation and 7 are being treated medically. Mean follow-up is 7 +/- 5 months, and complications included circumflex coronary artery occlusion, excessive bleeding, valve perforation, and cerebral vascular accident. 
Assessment of aortic and pulmonic stenosis by echocardiography. Doppler and imaging echocardiography are highly useful methods of identifying and quantifying both aortic and pulmonic stenosis. The presence of valve stenosis and associated regurgitation is based on detecting abnormal intracardiac velocity patterns near the affected valve. Defining the specific valve involved and the type of lesion present is based on determining the location and timing of the abnormal velocities. Both color flow imaging and duplex pulsed Doppler with two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging are highly accurate in identifying the lesions present. Quantification of the severity of stenotic lesions requires calculation of the pressure gradient across the valve and estimation of valve area; quantification of volume flow rate is frequently helpful. The pressure gradient is calculated from high velocity data acquired in the stenotic valve orifice by using the Bernoulli equation. Volume flow rate through the valve can be estimated by using Doppler velocity data and two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging data acquired at sites upstream from the stenotic valve. The continuity equation allows calculation of valve area that is based on this noninvasive stroke volume and pressure gradient data. This review characterizes flow patterns present near stenotic valves, discusses the equations required to quantify aortic and pulmonic stenosis, and then describes the clinical approach to the noninvasive quantification of both stenotic lesions. 
Pearly penile papules: absence of human papillomavirus DNA by the polymerase chain reaction. Pearly penile papules clinically resemble the sexually transmitted papular variant of genital condylomata. Histologically, however, pearly penile papules consist of fibropapillomata that lack the characteristic morphologic features of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. To study the possible association of HPV infections with pearly penile papules, we examined tissue specimens from 13 men with pearly penile papules with and without associated penile condylomata. Biopsy specimens were tested for the presence of HPV DNA by the polymerase chain reaction. None of the pearly penile papules contained HPV DNA sequences, whereas four of seven cases clinically suspected of being condylomata associated with pearly penile papules contained HPV DNA. These results confirm that pearly penile papule lesions do not contain HPV DNA; therefore, the distinction between pearly penile papules and penile condylomata is clinically significant. 
Decreased plasticity of glucoregulatory responses in aged rats: effects of chronic stress. These experiments were conducted to determine the effects of age and chronic stress on the ability of rats to attenuate stimulus-induced glucose and insulin responses during repeated exposure to a mild stressor. Young (5-month) and old (21-month) Fischer 344 male rats were either exposed to intermittent sessions of an escapable footshock stress for 3 months, or to no chronic stress. Afterwards, blood samples were obtained from each rat before, during, and after the first and fourth exposure to a novel motion stimulus. Between the first and the fourth exposure to the motion stimulus a pronounced attenuation of glucose and insulin responses was seen in both groups of young rats, and in old chronically stressed rats, but not in old control animals. Thus, it appears that the adverse effects of aging on plasticity of glucoregulatory response processes were significantly diminished by exposure of the animals to periodic challenges from their external environment. 
Prognostic significance of atrial fibrillation in advanced heart failure. A study of 390 patients. BACKGROUND. Atrial fibrillation is common in advanced heart failure, but its prognostic significance is controversial. METHODS AND RESULTS. We evaluated the relation of atrial rhythm to overall survival and sudden death in 390 consecutive advanced heart failure patients. Etiology of heart failure was coronary artery disease in 177 patients (45%) and nonischemic cardiomyopathy or valvular heart disease in 213 patients (55%). Mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 +/- 0.07. Seventy-five patients (19%) had paroxysmal (26 patients) or chronic (49 patients) atrial fibrillation. Compared with patients with sinus rhythm, patients with atrial fibrillation did not differ in etiology of heart failure, mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure on therapy, or embolic events but were more likely to be receiving warfarin and antiarrhythmic drugs and had a slightly higher left ventricular ejection fraction. After a mean follow-up of 236 +/- 303 days, 98 patients died: 56 (57%) died suddenly, and 36 (37%) died of progressive heart failure. Actuarial 1-year overall survival was 68%, and sudden death-free survival was 79%. Actuarial survival was significantly worse for atrial fibrillation than for sinus rhythm patients (52% versus 71%, p = 0.0013). Similarly, sudden death-free survival was significantly worse for atrial fibrillation than for sinus rhythm patients (69% versus 82%, p = 0.0013). By Cox proportional hazards model, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure on therapy, left ventricular ejection fraction, coronary artery disease, and atrial fibrillation were independent risk factors for total mortality and sudden death. For patients who had pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of less than 16 mm Hg on therapy, atrial fibrillation was associated with poorer 1-year survival (44% versus 83%, p = 0.00001); however, in the high pulmonary capillary wedge pressure group, atrial fibrillation did not confer an increased risk (58% versus 57%). CONCLUSIONS. Atrial fibrillation is a marker for increased risk of death, especially in heart failure patients who have lower filling pressures on vasodilator and diuretic therapy. Whether aggressive attempts to maintain sinus rhythm will reduce this risk is unknown. 
Limitation of no reflow injury by blood-free reperfusion with oxygenated perfluorochemical (Fluosol-DA 20%). This study was designed to assess the effects of blood-free reperfusion with oxygenated or unoxygenated intracoronary perfluorochemical (Fluosol-DA 20%) on myocardial perfusion and to determine its mechanism or mechanisms of limiting no reflow. Twenty-four dogs underwent 90 min of coronary occlusion followed by 210 min of reperfusion and were randomized to either: 1) blood-free reperfusion with intracoronary oxygenated perfluorochemical (20 ml/kg per min) for 20 min followed by blood reperfusion (n = 8); 2) intracoronary unoxygenated perfluorochemical administered as in those treated with oxygenated perfluorochemical (n = 8); and 3) blood reperfusion alone (control) (n = 8). Regional myocardial blood flow was serially determined and global myocardial perfusion was assessed by an intravenous injection of the fluorescent dye (thioflavin-S). Quantitative studies were performed to determine neutrophil infiltration and extent of endothelial injury. Hemodynamic variables were similar in all groups. The zone of impaired perfusion (thioflavin negative), expressed as a percent of the left ventricle, averaged 10 +/- 2%, 6 +/- 2% and 3 +/- 1%, in control and unoxygenated and oxygenated perfluorochemical groups, respectively (control versus oxygenated perfluorochemical p less than 0.004). The reduction in thioflavin-negative area with oxygenated perfluorochemical was associated with a notable recovery of endocardial blood flow (0.97 +/- 0.22 vs. control 0.39 +/- 0.08 ml/min per g; p less than 0.04) at 210 min of reperfusion. The number of capillaries plugged by neutrophils (per 200 capillaries) in thioflavin-negative areas was similar with both oxygenated (5.9 +/- 1.4) and unoxygenated perfluorochemical (5.4 +/- 0.8) treatment and was significantly less than that with the control group (18.9 +/- 3.2, p less than 0.003). 
Estrogen and estrogen receptors in thyroid carcinomas. Thyroid tissues, composed of normal thyroid (10 cases), Graves' thyroid (4), and papillary carcinoma (10), were measured for the presence of receptors for estrogen (ER) using an enzyme-immunoassay method. The mean value of ER in papillary carcinoma tissues (4.0 +/- 3.6 fmol/mg protein) was higher than that in normal thyroid tissues (0.8 +/- 0.4 fmol/mg protein) or that in Graves' thyroids (2.6 +/- 0.9 fmol/mg protein). In 10 papillary carcinomas, 3 were from male patients and 7 were from females. The mean value of ER in the tumors from male patients (7.2 +/- 5.1 fmol/mg protein) was higher than that from female patients (2.6 +/- 1.7 fmol/mg protein). Another set of 100 thyroid tissues from normal (20 cases), Graves' disease (10), follicular adenoma (8), and papillary carcinoma (62) was also examined for the presence of estradiol (E2) using an immunohistochemical method on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections. E2-positive tissues were found in 4 (40%) of 10 Graves' thyroids, 4 (50%) of 8 adenomas, and 47 (76%) of 62 papillary carcinomas. In 62 papillary carcinomas, E2-positive tissues were found in 37 (73%) of 51 female patients and 10 (91%) of 11 male patients. In relation to relapse of the carcinomas, E2-positive carcinomas were found in 10 (71%) of 14 patients with relapse of the disease and in 14 (54%) of 26 patients with no relapse (the difference was not significant). The findings indicate that thyroid carcinomas may be estrogen-dependent, but no definite conclusions could be drawn between the biological behavior of the tumors and the E2-positivity. 
Urinary cotinine measurement in patients with Buerger's disease--effects of active and passive smoking on the disease process. Although Buerger's disease is known to be closely related to smoking, no objective analysis of the smoke-associated problems has been performed. In this study, cotinine, the major metabolite of nicotine, was used as a sensitive marker to measure levels of active smoking and the exposure of nonsmokers to tobacco smoke because it has a relatively long half-life and because cotinine levels can be determined by noninvasive means in urine. According to urinary cotinine levels, 40 patients with Buerger's disease were classified as (1) smokers: those with urinary cotinine levels above 50 ng/mg creatinine; (2) passive smokers: those with levels between 10 and 50 ng/mg creatinine; and (3) nonsmokers who did not experience noticeable passive smoking: those with levels below 10 ng/mg creatinine. There were 10 smokers, 9 passive smokers, and 21 nonsmokers. The course of the disease, after the initial treatment at our hospital, was studied retrospectively. Seven of the 10 smokers, none of the 9 passive smokers, and 4 of the 21 nonsmokers experienced aggravation of the disease. Of the four nonsmokers who experienced aggravation, three had still been smokers and one had been exposed to tobacco smoke in the workplace at the time of relapse. There was a significant difference in the aggravation rate between the smokers' group and the other two groups. Among the smokers, the seven patients whose conditions worsened showed significantly higher cotinine levels than the three remaining patients who were in the stage of remission. 
Incidence and outcome of surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia among residents of Rochester, Minnesota: 1980-87. A population-based study. The incidence and outcome of surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) was studied in Rochester, Minnesota, during the period 1980-1987. Three hundred thirty Rochester men without a diagnosis of prostate or bladder cancer underwent prostatectomy for BPH for the first time. Mean and median ages were both seventy (range: 46-95). The incidence of initial prostatectomy for BPH among men forty-five years of age and older age-adjusted to the 1980 U.S. white male population was 642 cases per 100,000 persons per year (py). Among the 330 men undergoing initial prostatectomy for BPH, 14 (4.2%) had serious intraoperative complications, 32 (9.7%) were rehospitalized for urologic complications within thirty days of surgery, and 13 (3.9%) had other serious complications within thirty days after surgery, including 1 death (surgical mortality 0.3%). Forty-five patients (14%) required blood transfusions within thirty days of surgery. The likelihood of reoperation within six years of the initial surgery was 15.1 percent (95% CI 9.7, 20.6). Short- and long-term postoperative mortality was not statistically significantly different than expected based on age- and sex-specific mortality statistics for Rochester, Minnesota. 
Cerebral haemorrhage in a French prospective population study. The incidence of cerebral haemorrhage was studied from a population-based stroke registry. The incidence was 12.3 per 100,000 per year in women and 13.9 per 100,000 per year in men, with a peak in the eighth decade and a male preponderance. Haemorrhages were deep seated and mostly due to hypertension. Recognised clinical characteristics of haemorrhage are acute onset, convulsion, vomiting, and disturbed consciousness. This study showed that cerebral haemorrhage may present with pure motor deficit or transient deficit preceding the stroke. The mortality was 51% in the first month, and 61% by two years. 
Torticollis in children. Torticollis is a common clinical sign that is found in a variety of disorders. Childhood torticollis differs from the adult form in that congenital types are common and many frequently encountered disorders found in adults are unusual. Pediatric torticollis related to otolaryngologic conditions is reviewed, and three illustrative cases are presented. 
Peritonitis due to Rhizopus in a patient undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. A 61-year-old man who had end-stage renal disease secondary to diabetes mellitus and hypertension developed peritonitis due to infection with Rhizopus as a complication of receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). At the onset of infection, the patient was neither acidemic nor hyperglycemic; in addition, deferoxamine had not been administered and Elastoplast dressings had not been applied. The infection occurred after the technique for disinfection of the catheter used for CAPD had been changed. The catheter was removed, and therapy with amphotericin B was initiated. Although the patient died of apparently unrelated causes, an autopsy revealed active fungal infection with multiple abscesses and superficial invasion of the ileal wall. 
Pouchitis--is it a wastebasket diagnosis? Pouchitis is a poorly defined syndrome that is unique to patients with an ileal reservoir. During a prospective follow-up review of 215 patients who underwent ileal pouch-anal anastomosis, pouchitis was diagnosed in 30 patients (14 percent). Based on the clinical course, two distinct patterns of pouchitis were recognized: patients who experienced two or fewer episodes (Group 1-18 patients) and patients who experienced at least three episodes (Group 2-12 patients). Histopathologic review of resected colons revealed a preponderance of indeterminate colitis in patients in Group 2 (58.3 percent) compared with patients in Group 1 (0 percent). In Group 1; 88.9 percent of patients responded to therapy with metronidazole. Only 25 percent of patients in Group 2 responded to metronidazole alone. Most patients in Group 2 required sulfasalazine, topical steroids, or both. Of the 30 patients with pouchitis, four (13.3 percent) had a distinct endoscopic pattern of distal inflammation. This subset of patients with short strip pouchitis was successfully treated with topical steroid preparations. The clinical differences suggest different causes of pouchitis in these two groups. 
Capillary haemangiomas: an approach to their management. Twenty-five children with eyelid haemangiomas were reviewed. Fifteen patients with enlarging lesions thought to be at risk of causing amblyopia were treated with intralesional steroids as soon after presentation as possible. This appeared to reduce significantly the incidence of amblyopia. Surgery was reserved for older children in whom no further involution of the lesion was expected. 
Snoring and the risk of ischemic brain infarction. To determine if a history of snoring is a risk factor for brain infarction, I conducted a case-control study of risk factors for ischemic stroke using 177 consecutive male patients aged 16-60 (mean 49) years with acute brain infarction. For each patient I chose an age-matched (+/- 6 years) male control. Arterial hypertension, coronary heart disease, snoring (habitually or often), and heavy drinking (greater than 300 g/wk) were risk factors in the stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis. The odds ratio of snoring for brain infarction was 2.13. By McNemar's test this association increased strongly if a history of sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, and obesity were all present with snoring (odds ratio 8.00). My study indicates that snoring may be a risk factor for ischemic stroke, possibly because of the higher prevalence of an obstructive sleep apnea syndrome among snorers than nonsnorers. 
Temperature-dependent modulation of lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha expression in cultured human astroglial cells by dexamethasone and indomethacin. In bacterial meningitis, LPS induces production in cerebrospinal fluid of the cytokines IL-1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), which are the principle mediators of meningeal inflammation. IL-1 beta and TNF alpha induce fever, and elevated temperature may affect cytokine expression. Dexamethasone treatment improves outcome in bacterial meningitis possibly by inhibiting IL-1 beta and TNF alpha. In this report, the effects of elevated temperature and dexamethasone on LPS-stimulated IL-1 beta and TNF alpha mRNA gene expression and protein synthesis were studied in human astrocytoma cell lines and primary cultures of human fetal astrocytes. Cells cultured at 40 degrees C exhibited smaller peaks of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha transcription and protein synthesis compared with cells cultured at 37 degrees C. The addition of dexamethasone before, during, or after exposure of the cells to LPS resulted in temperature-dependent inhibition of IL-1 beta transcription and protein synthesis. The most extensive inhibition occurred in pretreated cells cultured at 37 degrees C. Cotreatment with LPS and dexamethasone also inhibited TNF alpha mRNA transcription at both temperatures. The effects of another antiinflammatory agent, indomethacin, on LPS induction of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha mRNA were temperature and cell line dependent. These findings provide a possible explanation for the efficacy of dexamethasone treatment of bacterial meningitis and support the proposal that fever may be beneficial to the host in this disease. 
Anal tonometry: a quick method of anal manometry. Evaluation of anal sphincter tonic activity is important in the proctologic clinic. However, manometric techniques are expensive, complex, and only available in some centers. Because there is often an in-office need for having objective measurements of anal tonic activity, in our clinic we introduced a simple method for measurement of anal pressures. This method is based on the flow of air in an open circuit by using a rubber probe with a side opening at one end. Pressure is assessed by an ordinary manometric gauge for arterial pressure. With this simple instrument, the following parameters are measured: 1) anal resting pressure, 2) squeeze pressure, 3) functional length of the anal canal, and 4) descent of the perineum on staining. After testing the technique in 100 healthy persons, it was applied to 130 patients with several proctologic disorders. Differences in pressures were found between controls and patients with anal fissure (high resting pressures), and patients with anal incontinence (low resting and/or squeeze pressures). A correlation was also found between the descending perineum measured by this method and by defecography. This simple instrument is useful in the office as the first approach to the function of the anal sphincters and the pelvic floor. Nowadays, so-called anal tonometry is part of the proctologic examination in our department, because it is simple, reliable, and takes only a few minutes. 
Analysis of inflammatory cells and complement C3 in bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis. Immunohistochemical analysis of the inflammatory cells and complement C3 in the rat skeletal muscle was performed chronologically in bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis. At 30 minutes after injection, polymorphonuclear leukocytes appeared and increased in number, with a peak value at 12 hours, while macrophages reached the highest level at 2 days. In contrast, T cells comprised only a small population. Two weeks after the injection, all types of the inflammatory cells returned to the normal level. Deposition of complement C3 was recognized at 60 minutes at the surface membrane of degenerating muscle fiber. Our observation suggests the importance of both polymorphonuclear leukocytes and complement C3 in the early stage, and macrophages in the later stage of bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis. In addition, our findings cast doubt on the pathological significance of T cells in this model. 
Anterior urethral polyp associated with hematuria in six-year-old child. Anterior urethral polyps are rare, occur only in male patients, and have been associated with obstruction, terminal hematuria, and enuresis. We believe this is the fifth reported case of anterior urethral polyp associated with terminal hematuria. The radiographic findings, treatment, and pathology are reviewed. 
Toward an integrated understanding of fibromyalgia syndrome. II. Psychological and phenomenological aspects. The present paper is the second of a 2-part series in which extant empirical literature concerning fibromyalgia syndrome (FS) is reviewed in order to provide a preliminary approach to forming an integrated understanding of the syndrome. Research on psychological disturbance in FS is reviewed with particular emphasis on affective dysfunction among FS patients. The phenomenology of FS is then described. We attempt to suggest that FS represents a quantitatively and qualitatively experience distinct from similar chronic pain syndromes. Substantive findings in FS research are summarized in the final section and potential ways in which these findings might be integrated to provide a more cohesive model for future research are suggested. 
Protracted outbreak of severe delta hepatitis: experience in an isolated Amerindian population of the Upper Orinoco basin. In an investigation of a 21-year-old epidemic of severe hepatitis, 80 serum samples were studied from two isolated Yanomami Amerindian populations of the Upper Orinoco basin in Venezuela. Of the assayed samples, 30.6% were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), 53.7% were considered to reflect immunity to infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV), and only 16.2% were believed to reflect susceptibility to HBV infection; 82.5% of the samples tested positive for any marker of HBV infection. Thirty-one (39.7%) of 78 samples were also positive for antibody to delta antigen, including 91.6% of those positive for HBsAg and 20.9% of those immune to HBV. Our findings provide evidence of a high prevalence of HBV infection in this population. Furthermore, the high prevalence of antibody to delta antigen strongly suggests that coinfections with HBV or superinfections with hepatitis delta virus (HDV) in HBV carriers may be an important factor in the occurrence of an unusually high number of cases of fulminant hepatitis and of chronic liver disease. Serum samples obtained at the beginning of the outbreak 13 years earlier from 36 selected cases in the same population revealed a high rate of HBV infection (96.5%). All six HBsAg carriers from whom enough serum remained to be assayed were positive for antibody to delta antigen. Our findings indicate that the outbreak coincided with the introduction of HDV into a population with an already-high prevalence of HBV infection. 
Hepatobiliary cryptosporidiosis and cytomegalovirus infection mimicking metastatic cancer to the liver. A cholestatic syndrome caused by sclerosing cholangitis and papillary stenosis has been described in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hepatobiliary cryptosporidiosis and cytomegalovirus infection. The case of a 41-year-old homosexual man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, and cholestasis is reported. A percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram showed that the extrahepatic and right-sided intrahepatic ducts were normal. Computerized tomography of the abdomen showed multiple hypodense lesions in the liver. Guided needle biopsies of several of these lesions showed severe confluent necrotizing pericholangitis with cytomegalovirus-infected cells. Numerous cryptosporidia were seen attached to biliary epithelium. The unique histopathologic and radiographic features of this case should be added to the spectrum of hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Obstructed central venous catheters. Restoring function with a 12-hour infusion of low-dose urokinase. Thrombotic obstruction frequently prohibits infusion through or withdrawal of blood from central venous catheters and can occur in conjunction with symptomatic thrombosis of the subclavian vein. Thirty catheters were radiographically proved to be obstructed by thrombus and had not responded to at least one instillation of 5000 units of urokinase. All catheters were treated with a 12-hour infusion of urokinase at the rate of 40,000 units/hour. The obstructing thrombus was either eliminated or reduced in size in all instances and full function was restored in all but one catheter. No bleeding complications were seen. Six patients with obstructed catheters also had symptoms of subclavian vein thrombosis. All patients with symptoms of subclavian vein obstruction became asymptomatic on anticoagulant therapy even though no attempt at dissolving the thrombus obstructing the subclavian vein was made. A 12-hour infusion of low doses of urokinase can safely salvage function of obstructed catheters that otherwise may require replacement. Patients with concomitant subclavian vein thrombosis become asymptomatic on anticoagulant therapy without need to dissolve the obstructing thrombus. 
Enhanced tumor growth of both primary and established human and murine tumor cells in athymic mice after coinjection with Matrigel. Previously we found that the reconstituted basement membrane matrix Matrigel, when premixed with human small-cell lung carcinoma cells and injected subcutaneously into athymic mice, permitted tumor growth, whereas cells injected in the absence of Matrigel did not form tumors. In the present study, we examined additional cell types and determined some of the underlying mechanisms involved in the promotion of tumor formation by Matrigel. The tumor cell lines that we studied included transformed mouse Englebreth-Holm-Swarm tumor cells (T-EHS), human submandibular carcinoma A253 cells, mouse melanoma B16F10 cells, human epidermoid carcinoma KB cells, and human primary renal cell carcinoma cells. When coinjected subcutaneously with Matrigel, these cell lines formed rapidly proliferating tumors. Primary biopsy specimens of human colon carcinoma, when dispersed and coinjected with Matrigel, also formed tumors. Only A253, KB, and B16F10 cells formed small tumors in the absence of Martrigel, but a fivefold to tenfold increase in tumor size was observed in the presence of Matrigel. These data demonstrate a useful method for improving the growth of human tumors in athymic mice. 
GM2-gangliosidosis B1 variant: analysis of beta-hexosaminidase alpha gene mutations in 11 patients from a defined region in Portugal. The GM2-gangliosidosis B1 variant occurs at an exceptionally high frequency in the northern part of Portugal. In most patients, the disease manifests itself as a juvenile form, as opposed to the late-infantile form described for many patients from other parts of the world. We have analyzed the beta-hexosaminidase alpha gene in 11 patients, as well as in some relatives, in order to characterize the underlying abnormalities. They were screened for the two previously identified mutations responsible for the B1 variant phenotype (G533----A, also designated as the "DN allele," and C532---T) by PCR amplification of an 800-bp DNA fragment and subsequent dot-blot hybridization with allele-specific oligonucleotides. The fragment amplified from one patient was also subcloned and sequenced. Ten patients, constituting a clinically and biochemically homogeneous group, were found to be homozygous for the DN allele. The other, whose clinical profile more resembled the late-infantile phenotype often described in the literature, was a compound heterozygote carrying the DN allele and another, as yet unidentified, abnormal allele. Our results, corroborated by previously published data, suggest that homozygotes and compound heterozygotes for the DN allele may be distinguishable at the phenotypic level, depending on the nature of the abnormality in the other allele. A common ancestral origin for the DN allele can also be postulated. 
Total cavopulmonary anastomosis versus conventional modified Fontan procedure. The total cavopulmonary anastomosis, lateral tunnel Fontan, has been advocated as a preferred method for Fontan type repair. From 1987 to July 1990, 39 patients underwent total cavopulmonary anastomoses (group 1) and 39 patients underwent modified Fontan procedures (group 2); patients receiving adjustable atrial septal defects were excluded. Diagnoses in group 1 included tricuspid atresia in 5 patients, single ventricle in 32, and pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum in 2. Diagnoses in group 2 included tricuspid atresia in 20, single ventricle in 17, hypoplastic left heart syndrome in 1, and pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum in 1. There were no significant differences in age, weight, cross-clamp time, duration of inotropic support, postoperative effusions, or hospital stay between the two groups. Early mortality in group 1 was 7.7% (3/39) and in group 2, 2.6% (1/39). There was no difference in the incidence of early dysrhythmias or early pacemaker placement. Late mortality was 2.8% in group 1 and 8% in group 2 with a mean follow-up of 18 and 25 months, respectively. Follow-up in group 1 revealed 33 patients in normal sinus rhythm and 1 patient with episodes of supraventricular tachycardia; no additional patients have required pacemakers. Follow-up in group 2 revealed 27 patients in normal sinus rhythm and supraventricular tachycardia in 4 patients; 5 additional patients have required pacemaker placement. There is no apparent difference in early outcome between the total cavopulmonary anastomosis and the conventional modified Fontan. However, there appears to be an increased incidence of late dysrhythmias and the need for pacemaker placement in the conventional modified Fontan group compared with the lateral tunnel group. 
Is adult-onset coeliac disease due to a low-grade lymphoma of intraepithelial T lymphocytes? Enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma commonly presents with malabsorption, and debate continues as to whether adult-onset coeliac disease (CD) is itself a form of low-grade lymphoma. A 59-year-old man with adult-onset CD required resection of a segment of oedematous jejunum. Histological examination of this tissue revealed an intense intraepithelial lymphocytosis. Immunophenotypic (CD3-, CD4-, CD8-, CD34-, and CD45 RO-) and cytogenetic (deletion of the Y chromosome and chromosome 9) abnormalities were found, together with monoclonal T-cell-receptor gene rearrangements. Some patients with adult-onset CD may have low-grade lymphoma from the outset of their illness. 
Treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts with octreotide. Pancreatic pseudocysts are a common and painful complication of chronic pancreatitis. Seven patients (six male, one female; mean age 49.9 years) with chronic pancreatitis complicated by pseudocysts and persistent pain were treated with the pancreatic anti-secretory drug octreotide for 2 weeks. Octreotide caused no notable changes in the size of the pseudocysts of three patients. In the remaining four patients, the pseudocysts decreased in size by a mean of 42% (range 29-52%), and pain disappeared completely. These findings suggest a role for octreotide in the treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts. 
Intussusception in cystic fibrosis. Two cases of acute intussusception in older children with cystic fibrosis are reported. Both cases presented with symptoms and signs consistent with meconium ileus equivalent, which delayed the final diagnosis. Both cases required abdominal surgery but made full and uneventful recoveries. 
Home monitoring of transcutaneous oxygen tension in the early detection of hypoxaemia in infants and young children. Twenty three patients (age range 0.5-40 months) with recurrent cyanotic episodes underwent physiological recordings, including transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2) from a monitor modified for use at home (Kontron 821S). Of 69 episodes in which the arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2, Nellcor N200) was less than or equal to 80% for greater than or equal to 20 seconds and/or central cyanosis was present, the TcPO2 monitor alarmed (less than or equal to 20 mmHg or 2.67 kPa) in every episode. The pulse oximeter identified hypoxaemia in 62 out of 69 episodes, failing in seven episodes due to signal loss from movement artefact. In only seven of 69 episodes was there an accompanying apnoeic pause (greater than or equal to 20 seconds), and heart rate fell to less than or equal to 80 beats/minute in only five of 28 episodes in which an electrocardiogram was recorded. In 32 episodes in which SaO2 fell to less than or equal to 60%, the TcPO2 monitor alarmed after a median time interval of 16 seconds (maximum time interval 30 seconds). The TcPO2 monitor was then used in an uncontrolled trial at home in 350 patients at increased risk of sudden death and/or hypoxaemia. Indications for monitoring included apparent life threatening events or cyanotic episodes (n = 163), prematurity and prematurity related disorders (n = 86), and sudden unexpected death in one or more siblings (n = 122). The TcPO2 monitor detected cyanotic episodes at home in 81 patients, 52 of whom received vigorous stimulation and/or mouth to mouth resuscitation. Twenty one of these 52 patients had further hypoxaemic episodes documented in hospital with pulse oximetry. 
How AIDS forces reappraisal of hepatitis B virus control in sub-Saharan Africa For developing countries the cost-benefit of vaccination in the control of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is great since the acute infection is generally subclinical and the benefit is the prevention of small numbers of cases of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Since the pattern of HBV infection in Africa is such that, compared with south-east Asia, infection occurs later in childhood and spread is horizontal rather than vertical, investigation of the method of spread of HBV may result in a means of control other than by vaccination. In the meantime, because of the overlap in the means by which HBV and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are spread, it could be worthwhile taking advantage of existing AIDS prevention programmes to educate people about how to avoid both HBV and HIV infections. 
Treatment of oesophageal perforation: a multivariate analysis. Perforation of the oesophagus was retrospectively analysed in 59 patients. Cause and extent of perforation, localization, quality of the oesophageal wall and therapeutic modes were subjected to univariate analysis. The perforations of the intrathoracic oesophagus (39) were also subjected to multivariate analysis. Perforation of the cervical oesophagus is seldom lethal and can be adequately treated conservatively in the majority of cases. Perforations of the intrathoracic oesophagus can be divided into two groups, with or without simultaneous perforation of the parietal pleura. The optimal treatment for the group with pleural perforation seems to be resection of the oesophagus and secondary reconstruction, although primary closure is indicated in selected early cases. Perforations of the intrathoracic oesophagus confined to the mediastinum can be adequately treated conservatively in most patients. Perforation of the intra-abdominal oesophagus should be treated like any other intra-abdominal visceral perforation, by closure or diversion, even if this results in resection of the oesophagus. 
Comparison of the Finapres and direct arterial pressure monitoring during profound hypotensive anaesthesia. The Finapres was compared with direct intraarterial pressure monitoring in 10 patients undergoing local resection of choroidal melanoma, an operation that requires a period of profound hypotension. Good agreement was recorded for systolic arterial pressure and heart rate over a range of pressures. However, agreement of mean and diastolic pressures was poor, with the Finapres tending to overestimate these values. In cases requiring profound hypotension, direct arterial pressure monitoring remains the method of choice. 
The kissing balloon technique with two over-the-wire balloon catheters through a single 8-French guiding catheter. Some of the newer over-the-wire coronary angioplasty catheters have shaft sizes of 3.0 French (F) or less. The inner diameter of modern 8-F guiding catheters is large enough to accommodate two of such balloon catheters. We report a kissing balloon procedure with two over-the-wire catheters through a single 8-F guiding catheter. 
Superior vena caval thrombosis detected by transesophageal echocardiography. Three patients with clinical suspicion of bacterial endocarditis, induced by either pacemaker or indwelling catheter, underwent transesophageal echocardiography. High short-axis cuts through the great vessels, however, revealed the presence of superior vena caval thrombus in all three patients. Transesophageal echocardiography is more sensitive in establishing the diagnosis of superior vena caval thrombus than surface echocardiography. Comparison of transesophageal echocardiography with other diagnostic modalities is needed in assessing its overall sensitivity and specificity. 
Antibody to hepatitis C virus in post-transfusion hepatitis. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of antibodies to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV), their relation to outcome, and the seroconversion rate in patients with post-transfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of prospectively collected serum specimens. SETTING: A referral-based university hospital. PATIENTS: Sixty-three consecutive patients who developed non-A, non-B post-transfusion hepatitis after open-heart surgery. All patients had follow-up with serial serum testing and clinical evaluation. The mean (+/- SD) duration of follow-up after hepatitis onset was 81 +/- 33 months (range, 13 to 132 months). Seventeen patients recovered after acute-phase illness, whereas 46 developed chronic disease which, in 30 cases, was confirmed histologically. MAIN RESULTS: Of 32 patients tested before transfusion, 1 (3.1%) had anti-HCV. Fifty-nine (93%) patients were anti-HCV positive during acute-phase hepatitis: Patients with "early" seroconversion (less than 15 days after hepatitis onset) did not differ from those with "late" seroconversion (greater than 60 days after onset) in epidemiologic, clinical, and biochemical features. The rate of anti-HCV positivity during acute-phase illness was not significantly different among patients who recovered (76%) compared with those who developed chronic disease (95%). At 6 to 12 months, patients whose disease resolved had lower antibody activity than those with progressive disease. Further, during long-term follow-up (1 to 9 years), 53% of patients whose disease resolved but only 6.9% of patients who had progressive disease became anti-HCV negative. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatitis C virus is the major cause of post-transfusion hepatitis in Italy. The time to anti-HCV seroconversion varies widely after hepatitis onset and is not significantly associated with acute-phase features or outcome of disease. 
Effect of enalapril on survival in patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fractions and congestive heart failure. The SOLVD Investigators BACKGROUND. Patients with congestive heart failure have a high mortality rate and are also hospitalized frequently. We studied the effect of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, on mortality and hospitalization in patients with chronic heart failure and ejection fractions less than or equal to 0.35. METHODS. Patients receiving conventional treatment for heart failure were randomly assigned to receive either placebo (n = 1284) or enalapril (n = 1285) at doses of 2.5 to 20 mg per day in a double-bind trial. Approximately 90 percent of the patients were in New York Heart Association functional classes II and III. The follow-up averaged 41.4 months. RESULTS. There were 510 deaths in the placebo group (39.7 percent), as compared with 452 in the enalapril group (35.2 percent) (reduction in risk, 16 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 5 to 26 percent; P = 0.0036). Although reductions in mortality were observed in several categories of cardiac deaths, the largest reduction occurred among the deaths attributed to progressive heart failure (251 in the placebo group vs. 209 in the enalapril group; reduction in risk, 22 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 6 to 35 percent). There was little apparent effect of treatment on deaths classified as due to arrhythmia without pump failure. Fewer patients died or were hospitalized for worsening heart failure (736 in the placebo group and 613 in the enalapril group; risk reduction, 26 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 18 to 34 percent; P less than 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS. The addition of enalapril to conventional therapy significantly reduced mortality and hospitalizations for heart failure in patients with chronic congestive heart failure and reduced ejection fractions. 
Impact of diagnosis-related groups on the quality of postoperative care of patients with neck dissections. Two hundred eighty patients underwent neck dissection over a 10-year period: 138 during the 5-year period before the institution of Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) reimbursement and 142 during the 5 years after DRG regulations. A comparison of these two groups by site of tumor, stage of disease, histopathology, previous treatment, type of neck dissection, whether neck dissection was carried out alone or in combination with another procedure, presence of preexisting disease, postoperative complications, and mortality revealed no significant differences. A 35% reduction in the length of hospital stay from 16 to 10 days was identified in the post-DRG group with no detrimental effects on patient care. The variables found to have the greatest impact on length of hospital stay were the extent of operation and postoperative complications. 
The long distance effects of brain lesions: visualization of axonal pathways and their terminations in the human brain by the Nauta method. This study aims at determining the reliability and the optimal post-injury survival time for the application of the Nauta technique to the analysis of the human brain. The Nauta method reveals the degeneration not only of nerve fibers, myelinated and unmyelinated, but also of their terminations. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations appear to prove that the Nauta technique indeed stains axons in human autopsy material. The optimal survival time for the use of the Nauta method was found to be between nine days and five months. In cases with longer survival times--up to 20 months--the Nauta technique and a previously proposed polarizing technique (showing birefringent breakdown products of myelin) can be used as complementary methods. Applying these techniques to the human brain may help define the anatomical basis of neurological and neuropsychological symptoms important for man. 
Amino acid alterations and encephalopathy in the sepsis syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the role of amino acid profiles in septic encephalopathy. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis. SETTING: Medical wards and medical ICU of a university hospital. PATIENTS: Patients with infections and normal mental status were compared with patients with septic shock and altered sensorium. INTERVENTIONS: Plasma amino acid levels and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) scores were determined. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients with septic shock and altered sensorium had higher circulating concentrations of ammonia (425 +/- 55 vs. 127 +/- 7 mmol/L) and the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine (122 +/- 19 vs. 74 +/- 3 mmol/L) and tryptophan (97 +/- 7 vs. 32 +/- 13 mmol/L), and lower levels of the branch-chain amino acid isoleucine (48 +/- 7 vs. 68 +/- 5 mmol/L) than patients with infections and normal sensorium (p less than .05). Aromatic amino acid levels correlated with APACHE II scores (R2 = .4, p less than .001) and mortality. APACHE II scores were higher in the septic shock patients (30 +/- 2 vs. 8 +/- 1, p less than .001), and these patients had a higher mortality rate (71% vs. 12%, p less than .01). Patients with septic shock who died had higher levels of ammonia (524 +/- 58 vs. 227 +/- 40 mmol/L, p less than .05) and sulfur-containing amino acids (172 +/- 31 vs. 61 +/- 7 mmol/L, p less than .05) than patients who survived. CONCLUSIONS: Plasma amino acid profiles appear to be important in septic encephalopathy and the severity of septic disease. 
Clinical significance of two forms of IgM antibody to hepatitis delta virus. Separation of 7-8 S and 19 S forms of serum IgM antibodies to the hepatitis delta virus by rate-zonal centrifugation was carried out on serum from 24 patients with hepatitis delta virus infection: 4 patients with acute, self-limited hepatitis; 5 patients with hepatitis delta virus superinfection progressing to chronicity; and 15 patients with chronic hepatitis delta virus. The high molecular weight IgM form (19 S) was predominantly detected in acute hepatitis delta virus cases, whereas the low molecular weight (7 S) form was found in chronic hepatitis delta virus cases. The serological profile of these two forms of IgM antibody to hepatitis delta virus was investigated in serial samples from five patients with acute hepatitis delta virus superinfection that evolved to chronic hepatitis delta virus. We found that, in the acute stage of the disease, the 19 S form was predominant, whereas 6 mo later a predominance of 7-8 S IgM was observed. These results suggest that IgM antibody to hepatitis delta virus antibody forms are different in acute and chronic hepatitis delta virus infection and that their detection only helps in differentiating an acute infection from a chronic infection but not a hepatitis delta virus-hepatitis B virus-HBV coinfection from hepatitis delta virus superinfection in the acute stage of the disease. 
Combined surgical and interventional radiological approach for complex benign biliary tract obstruction. In patients with complicated high benign biliary strictures surgical technique alone cannot exclude the possibility of recurrent problems, and hepatic atrophy/hypertrophy, portal hypertension and intrahepatic stones may all complicate surgical management. A multidisciplinary approach to these complex cases, which minimizes the need for repeated surgical interventions, has been pursued. Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy was performed and an extended limb of the jejunum brought to the abdominal wall to allow access for later radiological intervention. Over a 30-month period 58 biliary-enteric anastomoses for benign disease were performed. Seventeen of these 58 patients were managed using the combined approach. Ten of these 17 patients had complex postcholecystectomy strictures and seven had strictures resulting from inflammatory disease, hepatic resection or congenital problems. A new classification of results of management of bile duct strictures is proposed. Seven patients were classified as 'excellent', six 'good', two 'fair' and two 'poor'. Results were obtained at a mean follow-up of 16 months and it seems likely that in some patients major surgical reinterventions were avoided. 
Hereditary unstable DNA: a new explanation for some old genetic questions? Fragile X syndrome, associated with the fragile X chromosome, is the most common cause of familial mental retardation. The condition is characterised by a heritable DNA sequence that consists of an abnormal number of CCG repeats, and which is unstable in both mitosis and meiosis. We suggest that such heritable unstable DNA sequences could be present in other parts of the genome and that these might explain a number of genetic events that are not well understood in terms of classic genetic mechanisms. Such poorly explained observations include anticipation, incomplete penetrance, variable expression, and possibly imprinting, variegation, and multifactorial inheritance. 
Significance of elevated levels of serum creatine phosphokinase in febrile diseases: a prospective study. The incidence and significance of elevated serum levels of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in febrile diseases were studied prospectively in all patients admitted with fever to a department of medicine during 1 year. High serum CPK levels were detected in 70 (28%) of 247 febrile patients but in only six (6%) of 105 afebrile control patients (P = .0001). Elevated CPK levels were not related to any specific diagnosis. Logistic regression analysis identified five factors that correlated both significantly and independently with elevation of CPK values: increased blood urea nitrogen level, low serum phosphate level, a stuporous or comatose state, tremor, and muscle tenderness. Myoglobinuria, detected in 14 patients, was predictive of a fatal outcome, but a high CPK level by itself was not an independent correlate of mortality. In summary, CPK elevation is not uncommon in febrile diseases, but because it does not reflect a specific etiology it does not necessarily indicate that an extensive diagnostic work-up is required. 
Asymmetrical ocular pursuit with posterior fossa tumors. We report two patients with posterior fossa neoplasms who demonstrated asymmetrically impaired horizontal ocular pursuit documented with electrooculography. One patient had impaired pursuit contralateral to a pontomedullary lesion, whereas the second patient had impaired pursuit ipsilateral to a pontocerebellar lesion. These patients demonstrate that posterior fossa lesions may impair ocular pursuit either contralaterally or ipsilaterally unlike cerebral hemispheric lesions, which impair ocular pursuit ipsilaterally or bilaterally. 
Effects of a minimally supervised exercise program for mentally retarded adults. Previous exercise studies that attempted to improve the cardiovascular fitness (CVF) of mentally retarded (MR) adults were flawed with methodological shortcomings that prevented conclusive results. At issue in these training studies were fitness test validity and reliability, exactness of duration and intensity of training, and an inordinate amount of supervision. Therefore, we sought to determine whether moderately MR adults (seven males, five females; IQ = 61 +/- 3, age = 25 +/- 3 yr) could improve their CVF through a minimally supervised 16-wk training program. Each subject repeated exercise tests twice on two different modes of exercise, the treadmill (TM) and Schwinn Air-Dyne ergometer (SAE), before training to ensure validity and reliability of initial CVF levels. Intensity and frequency of exercise were closely monitored. An observer was present during the training bouts, but, following initial instructions, no additional encouragement or instructions were given. Although the training program significantly increased peak VO2 (29.2 +/- 8 to 33.5 +/- 9 ml.kg-1.min-1) and peak ventilation (73 +/- 26 to 81 +/- 231.min-1) when assessed on the TM, significant changes in these same parameters were not seen when assessed on the SAE. The importance of these results was discussed. 
Cardiac pacemaker in high spinal cord injury. Bradycardia followed by cardiac arrest is well documented as a complication of acute injury to the cervical spinal cord. This life-threatening bradycardia is attributed to an imbalance in the autonomic nervous system resulting from dissociation of the parasympathetic from the sympathetic responses during the stage of spinal shock. A patient with a C2 complete quadriplegia secondary to birth trauma who experienced symptomatic bradycardia, continuing for 21 months after injury despite intensive medical management, is reported. Clinical improvement followed insertion of a cardiac pacemaker. Possible etiologies for the continuation of abnormal bradycardia episodes after the resolution of spinal shock are discussed. Cardiac pacemaker implantation is advocated for patients with high cervical spinal cord injuries and continuing symptomatic bradycardia not responding to medical measures. 
The risk of dying of prostate cancer in patients with clinically localized disease. From 1966 to 1979, 360 patients with clinical stages A2, B and C1 prostate cancer underwent staging pelvic lymphadenectomy, and completed a course of combined interstitial radioactive gold seeds and external beam radiotherapy. All patients had a normal serum prostatic acid phosphatase level and a bone scan negative for metastases. All patients were followed until death or for a mean of 7.3 years (range 1.2 to 18.25 years) for those alive at analysis. To determine the risk of dying of prostate cancer we reviewed the records of the 142 patients (39%) who died. At analysis 21% of the patients had died of prostate cancer and 17% of other known causes. The cause of death could not be determined in 4 patients (1%). Cardiovascular disease accounted for a fifth of all deaths. The actuarial risk of death of prostate cancer for all patients was 8 +/- 3% (+/- 2 standard errors) at 5 years and 30 +/- 7% at 10 years. The risk of death of all causes was 16 +/- 4% at 5 years and 46 +/- 7% at 10 years. An increased risk of cancer death was associated with established risk factors, including advanced local disease, poorly differentiated histology, pelvic nodal metastases and distant recurrence. We also noted a substantial risk of cancer death in patients who had local tumor recurrence. While previous studies have reported a relatively low incidence of cancer deaths (4 to 17%) in patients initially diagnosed with localized disease, our data suggest that prostate cancer is the major cause of mortality in such patients. Aggressive curative therapy, regardless of treatment modality, should be considered for localized prostate cancer in men with a life expectancy of 10 or more years. 
Self-inflicted eye injuries. Five cases of self-inflicted eye injury are described and discussed. A review of the literature shows that several psychiatric diagnoses have been assigned to people who damage their eyes. A variety of mechanisms to explain this phenomenon are described. 
Dry beriberi: unusual complication of prolonged parenteral nutrition. An adult with Crohn's disease on home total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for 8 months presented with peripheral neuropathy and ataxia. The patient was found to be deficient of thiamine. A prompt symptomatic response to intravenous thiamine suggests that the patient had the chronic form of dry beriberi. To our knowledge, this variety of beriberi in a patient on TPN has not previously been reported. 
Double-blind investigation of the effects of propranolol and placebo on the pressure of esophageal varices in patients with portal hypertension. This study was aimed at investigating the effects of propranolol on esophageal variceal pressure in patients with portal hypertension. Variceal pressure was measured at endoscopy using a miniature pressure-sensitive gauge in 20 patients with portal hypertension. Measurements were obtained under baseline conditions and 20 min after double-blind administration of propranolol (0.15 mg/kg; n = 10) or an identical amount of placebo (normal saline, 0.3 ml/kg; n = 10). Under baseline conditions, variceal pressure was similar in propranolol and placebo groups (14.1 +/- 5 mm Hg vs. 14.9 +/- 6.6 mm Hg, respectively; not significant). Placebo had no significant effect on variceal pressure (baseline = 14.9 +/- 6.6 mm Hg; placebo = 15.5 +/- 6.6 mm Hg; not significant), and values after placebo administration were closely correlated with baseline values (r = 0.98; y = 1.1 + 0.97 x; p less than 0.0001). In contrast, propranolol caused a significant decrease in the pressure of esophageal varices (from 14.1 +/- 5 mm Hg to 11.3 +/- 4.4 mm Hg; p less than 0.0002). No significant changes in the size of esophageal varices were observed after propranolol or placebo administration. This study shows (a) the endoscopic pressure-gauge technique has a low variability and may be used to assess acute drug-induced changes in variceal pressure; and (b) propranolol causes significant decreases in variceal pressure in patients with portal hypertension and esophageal varices. 
Acute polyhydramnios associated with chorioangioma. A case report. A case of acute polyhydramnios occurred at 26 weeks' gestation. Prenatal sonography demonstrated a placental chorioangioma. Acute polyhydramnios is clinically distinct from nonacute polyhydramnios and carries a high perinatal mortality rate. As in our case, fetal death often results from complications of prematurity. 
Aortic thrombosis after umbilical artery catheterization in neonates: prevalence of complications on long-term follow-up. We previously reported the early natural history of aortic thrombosis occurring after umbilical artery catheterization in 21 neonates. Ten of those neonates were reevaluated at 36-42 months of age for evidence of hypertension, renal abnormalities, and leg-growth disturbances. They were compared with an age-matched control group of seven infants. Blood pressures were greater than the 95th percentile in three infants and between the 50th and the 95th percentile in six of the 10 infants. Height was less than the fifth percentile for age in four infants with aortic thrombosis. One child had a 1.0-cm discrepancy in leg-length measurements, and seven of nine patients exhibited a 0.5-2.0 cm discrepancy between legs in either thigh or calf circumference. Sonography showed no evidence of residual clot in the aorta or renal vessels. Doppler flow was normal in all cases. Despite resolution of neonatal aortic thrombosis, complications resulting in renovascular hypertension (three of 10 patients) and leg-growth abnormalities (eight of nine) can occur. Hypertension (one of seven) and leg-growth discrepancy (four of seven) were less frequent in the 3-year follow-up of the seven matched control infants. We suggest that infants with known aortic thrombosis receive long-term follow-up to detect these potential problems. 
Light reflection rheography: an effective non-invasive technique for screening patients with suspected deep venous thrombosis. Light reflection rheography is a simple non-invasive technique for assessing venous function in the leg. One hundred and twenty-four patients referred for venography with a clinically suspected deep venous thrombosis were investigated by light reflection rheography to determine the accuracy of the technique in diagnosing acute thrombosis. In half of the patients venography confirmed a deep venous thrombosis. Light reflection rheography had a sensitivity of 92 per cent and a specificity of 84 per cent in detecting acute thrombosis. The technique had a negative predictive value of 92 per cent in selecting those patients with no thrombosis. Light reflection rheography can be performed at the bedside or in the radiography department which makes it a suitable technique for screening patients with suspected deep venous thrombosis. 
Wildervanck or cervico-oculo-acoustic syndrome and MRI findings. In 1952, Wildervanck described the first case of what he styled the cervico-oculo-acoustic (COA) syndrome. This comprises Klippel Feil's (KF) anomaly (congenitally fused cervical vertebrae), congenital sensorineural deafness and Duane's retraction syndrome (deficient abduction with retraction on adduction). Since that original paper, there have been further reports describing this triad, either completely or incompletely. A further case of this syndrome is reported and the first report of MRI head scan findings in this condition is presented. In addition, the origin of mirror movements observed as part of the KF syndrome are discussed. 
Asymptomatic blastomycosis of the central nervous system with progression in patients given ketoconazole therapy: a report of two cases. Ketoconazole (KTZ) has largely replaced amphotericin B as first-line therapy for blastomycosis. However, KTZ penetrates poorly into the central nervous system (CNS), and therapeutic failure may be caused by initially unrecognized CNS infection. Two patients (22% [2/9] of all culture-proven cases of blastomycosis at Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, over 15 years) developed CNS blastomycosis while receiving KTZ. Neither initially had CNS symptoms; both had cutaneous and pulmonary disease that responded to KTZ. If KTZ or other fungistatic imidazoles are to continue as primary therapy for blastomycosis, studies are needed to improve the ability to identify patients likely to experience treatment failure or develop CNS disease. Possibly all patients with disseminated blastomycosis, even those without CNS symptoms, should have lumbar puncture and computed tomography of the head before therapy. Critical evaluation of their immune function also may be required before making a therapeutic decision to use KTZ or amphotericin B. 
Treatment of rat prostatic adenocarcinoma with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA): effects on growth and morphology. Rats bearing the Dunning R3327H prostatic carcinoma were castrated and supplemented with testosterone propionate. These rats were then treated with estradiol benzoate or medroxyprogesterone acetate alone or in combination with estradiol. During the treatment period of six weeks, the growth rate of the prostatic tumors was measured. At the end of the treatment period the morphology of the tumors was also studied. It was found that medroxyprogesterone acetate is as effective as estradiol in inhibiting the growth of the Dunning prostatic carcinoma and that the combination of medroxyprogesterone acetate and estradiol was more efficient in that respect than estradiol alone. Morphometric evaluation of the tumor epithelium and stroma showed a decrement of epithelial growth in all treatment groups, while the groups treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate, both alone or in combination with estradiol, also showed an inhibited growth of the tumor stroma. It was concluded that medroxyprogesterone acetate probably has direct inhibitory effects on prostatic tumor cells in the Dunning model and that medroxyprogesterone acetate may act in an additive manner with estradiol. 
Pharmacokinetics of activated protein C in guinea pigs. Protein C is a vitamin K-dependent zymogen of the serine protease, activated protein C (APC), an important regulatory enzyme in hemostasis. In view of the potential of human APC as an anticoagulant and profibrinolytic agent, the pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of APC were studied in guinea pigs. The plasma elimination of a trace dose of 125I-APC was biphasic following an initial rapid elimination of approximately 15% of the injected dose within 1 to 2 minutes. This rapid removal of 125I-APC from the circulation was found to be a result of an association with the liver regardless of the route of injection. Essentially identical results were obtained with active site-blocked forms of APC generated with either diisopropylfluorophosphate or D-phenylalanyl-L-prolyl-L-arginine chloromethyl ketone, which indicates that the active site was not essential for the liver association. Accumulation of all three forms of APC in the liver peaked at 30 minutes and then declined as increasing amounts of degraded radiolabeled material appeared in the gastrointestinal tract and urine. Removal of the gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (gla) domain of diisopropylphosphoryl-APC resulted in a 50% reduction in the association with liver and an accumulation in the kidneys. Protein C and protein S were cleared from the circulation at rates approximately one-half and one-fourth, respectively, that of APC. Both in vitro and in vivo, APC was found to form complexes with protease inhibitors present in guinea pig plasma. Complex formation resulted in a more rapid disappearance of the enzymatic activity of APC than elimination of the protein moiety. These findings indicate two distinct mechanisms for the elimination of APC. One mechanism involves reaction with plasma protease inhibitors and subsequent elimination by specific hepatic receptors. The other mechanism involves the direct catabolism of APC by the liver via a pathway that is nonsaturable over a substantial dose range and independent of the active site. This pattern of elimination is distinctly different from that observed with the homologous coagulation enzymes thrombin, factor IXa, and factor Xa. 
Intracarotid chemotherapy with etoposide and cisplatin for malignant brain tumors. Chemotherapy for tumors of the central nervous system has a limited efficacy presumably because of restricted blood-brain barrier permeability. The advantage of regional intra-arterial administration of anticancer drugs is an increased uptake during the first passage of the drugs through tumor capillaries. Twenty patients with high-grade astrocytomas (HGA) and 28 patients with metastatic brain tumors (MBT) received intracarotid/intravertebral infusion of etoposide and cisplatin. Eight patients with HGA who underwent incomplete resection responded to chemotherapy alone. Four additional patients had complete resection of the tumor. Median survival time of the group (responders and nonresponders) has been 14 months. Twelve patients with MBT responded to chemotherapy alone (six had complete response [CR], and six had partial response [PR]) with a median survival time of 7 months. Intra-arterial chemotherapy (IAC) appears to be effective with acceptable toxicities. Accrual of additional patients is required before a final conclusion can be reached. 
High mebendazole doses in pulmonary and hepatic hydatid disease. Thirty nine children with 71 hydatid cysts were given mebendazole orally in a dose of 100-200 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks and were followed up for a mean (SD) of 63 (24) months. Twenty children (three of them after a second course) were cured and another two avoided at least one operation. No serious side effects of the drug were observed. 
Concomitant lymphangioma and arteriovenous malformation of the orbit. An 8-year-old girl had an orbital-adnexal lymphangioma and ipsilateral orbital and middle cranial fossa arteriovenous malformations. High-resolution magnetic resonance image scanning, orbital ultrasonography, and digital subtraction angiography were used for diagnosis and preoperative assessment. Complications related to this vascular neoplasm included amblyopia, acute hemorrhage with proptosis, exposure keratitis, cosmetic deformity, and recurrent preseptal cellulitis. The girl was treated with both embolization and orbital surgery for recurrent hemorrhage and proptosis. We postulated that the coexistence of a lymphangioma and arteriovenous malformation represents an unusual and extensive maldevelopment of vascular embryogenesis. 
Importance of 6-mercaptopurine dose in lymphoblastic leukaemia. To explore the possibility that higher total dosage of 'maintenance' treatment may have contributed to the recent improvement in outlook of children in the United Kingdom with lymphoblastic leukaemia, details of the amount of 6-mercaptopurine prescribed during the first two years of treatment were studied in an unselected cohort of children diagnosed between 1973 and 1987. Eighty five patients were studied, 30 diagnosed before and 55 after 1980. The group diagnosed after 1980 showed an 18% improvement in relapse free survival at five years. Their median total dose of 6-mercaptopurine had increased by 22%, whereas according to the protocol it should have risen by an average of only 9%. After 1980 boys were prescribed significantly more 6-mercaptopurine than girls, and had fewer dose reductions because of myelosuppression. These findings support the clinical impression that after 1980 an important therapeutic difference resulting from the new United Kingdom acute lymphoblastic leukaemia protocols was an increase in the amount of 6-mercaptopurine that children actually received as a result of changes in prescribing guidelines rather than dose. They also provide further evidence that boys tolerate 6-mercaptopurine better than girls, which may be related to the still unexplained difference in prognosis between the sexes. 
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Workshop on antihypertensive drug treatment. The benefits, costs, and choices. Implications for research. Selected portions of the workshop's closing discussion are summarized. Major ongoing clinical trials of antihypertensive drug treatment are described. Some recommendations offered by workshop participants for future research directions are summarized. 
Hypercholesterolemia: the cost of treatment in perspective. Would the money spent on treating hypercholesterolemia save more lives if spent elsewhere? How many dollars must be spent on a treatment to make one person live 1 year longer? This cost-effectiveness analysis uses the cost per year of life gained to compare a wide variety of health care interventions ranging from carcinogen research to screening tests to liver transplants. The comparison calls into question some popular trends. 
Oral ketamine. Its use for mentally retarded adults requiring day care dental treatment. Four cases of severely mentally handicapped young adults requiring day care dental treatment are reported. All had required varying degrees of restraint during previous dental treatments, which had been distressing for the patient, the relatives and the ward staff. In all cases, administration of oral ketamine 10 mg/kg, 30-60 minutes before the procedure, facilitated subsequent induction of anaesthesia. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: evolution, early results, and impact on nonsurgical gallstone therapies Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, a surgical technique first performed in France, has gained widespread acceptance among surgeons in the United States. The abdominal cavity is inflated by carbon dioxide, a video monitor is inserted via a laparoscope placed periumbilically, and the gallbladder is freed and removed from the liver bed by using small subcostal ports for access and dissection. Intraoperative cholangiography is routinely performed, but uncertainty exists about how best to manage choledocholithiasis. Compared with traditional cholecystectomy, initial reports describing laparoscopic cholecystectomy cite shorter recovery times because no large incisions are made, thus potentially reducing the cost and morbidity of cholecystectomy. A survey of 614 early cases supports these claims, with a reported complication rate of 1.5% and quick resumption of normal activities by patients. Because of its promise for reduced morbidity, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is challenging open cholecystectomy as the therapeutic gold standard for symptomatic cholelithiasis. Thus, the standard to which the nonsurgical gallstone therapies, such as lithotripsy and contact dissolution, will be compared may shift to laparoscopic cholecystectomy. As the laparoscopic complications are similar to those of traditional cholecystectomy, such as abscesses and bile leaks, their percutaneous treatment should not change. 
Renal abscess in childhood: diagnostic and therapeutic progress. During the past decade new techniques such as computed tomography (CT) and ultrasonography have been reported to have changed the diagnostic investigation and treatment of renal abscess in adults. To evaluate whether similar changes have taken place in the pediatric age group, a retrospective study of all patients seen between 1979 and 1989 was performed. Seven patients, 0.8 to 14 (mean, 9) years old, with renal abscesses in eight kidneys were identified. Ultrasound and computed tomography proved to be the most valuable diagnostic tools, revealing the diagnosis by showing a hypoechoic or hypodense mass. All patients had an initial trial of intensive antibiotic treatment, which led to resolution of the abscesses in two of the eight kidneys. In all other cases the abscesses were additionally drained, which was done surgically in two and by ultrasonography- or CT-guided percutaneous drainage in four patients. Abscess cultures grew Staphylococcus aureus (three), Escherichia coli (one) and Salmonella Group B (one) and were sterile in one case. Drainage was unsuccessful in only one patient, who subsequently underwent nephrectomy for uncontrolled infection of a diffusely damaged kidney. We conclude that the diagnosis of renal abscesses is greatly facilitated by ultrasonography and CT and that most patients can be cured without operation by antibiotics and, if necessary, by additional percutaneous drainage. 
Potassium accumulation in the globally ischemic mammalian heart. A role for the ATP-sensitive potassium channel. We investigated the contribution of opening of the ATP-sensitive K+ channel to extracellular accumulation of K+ during ischemia with the use of glibenclamide, a specific blocker of this K+ channel. To characterize the electrophysiological effects of glibenclamide during metabolic inhibition (by either application of dinitrophenol or hypoxia) we performed patch-clamp studies in isolated membrane patches of guinea pig myocytes and in intact guinea pig myocytes and studied action potential parameters in isolated superfused guinea pig papillary muscle. We studied the effect of glibenclamide on extracellular accumulation of K+ and H+ in isolated retrogradely perfused globally ischemic hearts of rat, guinea pig, and rabbit. Experimental evidence is presented that supports the conclusions that glibenclamide 1) effectively blocks open K+ATP channels, 2) reverses the dinitrophenol-induced increase of the outward current and prevents the hypoxia-induced shortening of the action potential, 3) decreases the rate of K+ accumulation during the first minutes of ischemia in stimulated hearts, an effect which was entirely absent in quiescent hearts, and 4) does not influence the rate and extent of ischemia-induced extracellular acidification. 
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and early mortality. To assess morbidity, mortality, and benefit associated with percutaneous endoscopic gastronomy (PEG), we retrospectively studied 42 patients who had had PEG. Mortality was exceptionally high during the first 60 days after PEG (43%), and then stabilized. In nearly half of the cases (20/42) the PEG tube was removed during the first 60 days because of either death or improvement. Patients with malignancy had a significantly higher morbidity and 60-day mortality than the neurologically impaired. We concluded that patients should be carefully selected for PEG because early mortality is high; a 60-day trial of soft nasogastric feedings should be considered before PEG, and could reduce by nearly half the number of patients failing to receive long-term benefit; and patients with malignancy have significantly greater morbidity and mortality after PEG and may not receive the same advantage from the procedure. 
Urologic sarcoma in adults. Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center experience based on a prospective database between 1982 and 1989. Urologic sarcoma is a group of rare tumors with a generally poor prognosis. These sarcomas share prognostic characteristics with soft-tissue sarcomas arising from other sites. A staging system that incorporates tumor grade and size is valuable in identifying patients at high risk of dying of disease. Patients with sarcomas that are high-grade, greater than 5 cm in diameter, or metastatic at the time of presentation (MSKCC stages 3 and 4) have a combined 3-year relapse-free survival rate of 26%. Complete surgical resection, preferably with negative margins, still offers the best chance of cure. For reasons that are not clear, multimodality therapy in rhabdomyosarcoma is less effective in adult than in pediatric disease. Present-day chemotherapeutic regimens are ineffective in controlling disseminated sarcoma. The adoption of a uniform staging system coupled with multi-institutional collaboration may allow progress to be made in this otherwise deadly form of genitourinary cancer. 
von Willebrand factor and factor VIII in renal transplant recipients under immunosuppression with cyclosporine and steroids. Sequential measurements over 4 months in 17 patients. In 17 consecutive cadaver kidney transplant recipients treated with cyclosporine (CsA) and steroids, the median of antigenic and functional levels of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and factor VIII (FVIII) before transplantation were elevated (vWF:Ag: 206%, vWF:RCof: 202%; FVIII:Ag: 248%, FVIII:C: 224%; normal values 50-150%). Sequential measurements after transplantation and during CsA treatment revealed a transient significant increase of median values with highest amounts of vWF:Ag of 362% (2 p less than 0.0001), FVIII:Ag of 398% (2 p less than 0.001) and FVIII:C of 360% (2 p less than 0.0001) (Friedman test). vWF:RCof did not show statistically significant changes. After 4 months, levels of vWF and FVIII comparable to those obtained before transplantation were observed. In univariate statistical analysis no correlation was found between vWF of FVIII on the one hand and plasma creatinine levels, CsA dose or CsA whole blood through levels on the other hand. However, multivariate statistics revealed to some extent a positive influence of CsA blood levels on vWF:Ag levels. Patients with vascular rejection or chronic CsA nephrotoxicity showed significantly lower levels of vWF:Ag as compared with patients without endothelial cell damage in the kidney (2 p less than 0.05). However, the difference in vWF:Ag levels already existed before transplantation. In contrast to recent reports, plasma vWF levels were not indicative of vascular injury in kidney graft recipients nor was the marked elevation of vWF and FVIII associated with thromboembolic complications ascribed to CsA treatment. 
The relationship between locomotor disability, autonomic dysfunction, and the integrity of the striatal dopaminergic system in patients with multiple system atrophy, pure autonomic failure, and Parkinson's disease, studied with PET. 18F-dopa and S-11C-nomifensine (NMF) are positron emitting tracers whose caudate and putamen uptake reflects striatal dopamine storage capacity and the integrity of dopamine reuptake sites, respectively. Using these two tracers, the integrity of the presynaptic striatal dopaminergic system has been studied with positron emission tomography (PET) in 10 subjects with multiple system atrophy (MSA, Shy-Drager syndrome) who had an akinetic-rigid syndrome that was poorly responsive to L-dopa, autonomic failure, and cerebellar ataxia. PET findings for the 10 MSA patients were compared with those for 13 age-matched controls, 8 subjects with L-dopa responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), and 7 subjects with pure autonomic failure (PAF). Influx constants, Ki, reflecting specific 18F-dopa uptake into striatal tissue, were severely reduced in the putamen and caudate of the 10 MSA subjects (mean putamen Ki 0.005 min-1 MSA vs 0.013 min-1 controls; mean caudate Ki 0.007 min-1 MSA vs 0.013 min-1 controls). Reduction of putamen, but not caudate, 18F-dopa uptake correlated with severity and duration of locomotor disability. Eight patients with PD, and a similar degree and duration of locomotor disability to the patients with MSA, demonstrated equal impairment of mean putamen 18F-dopa uptake, but significant preservation of mean caudate function. The 7 PAF patients had normal mean levels of putamen and caudate 18F-dopa uptake, although 1 individual PAF patient had significantly impaired striatal function. The MSA and PD groups of subjects both showed significantly reduced levels of specific striatal S-11C-NMF binding, again caudate function being relatively preserved in PD. It is concluded that in both MSA and PD there is a parallel decline of striatal dopamine storage capacity and reuptake site integrity, probably reflecting a loss of nigrostriatal nerve terminals. Caudate function is relatively preserved in PD compared with MSA. The majority of PAF patients have an intact nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, suggesting that PAF is a condition distinct from PD and MSA in spite of some pathological similarities. PET is capable of detecting subclinical nigrostriatal involvement in PAF patients when this is present. 
Muscle regeneration following segmental necrosis in tenotomized muscle fibers. The aim of this study was to determine how the new myotendinous junctions were re-established at the proximal and distal ends of the soleus muscle after tenotomy. Both proximal and distal tendons of the soleus muscle in mature female rats were severed. The animals were killed and the soleus muscles were removed and prepared for light and electron microscopic examination 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 42 days after the operation. It was found that segmental fiber destruction followed by removal by macrophages occurred at the ends of the soleus muscle fibers. This resulted in the liberation and myogenic activation of satellite cells. By 3 days after tenotomy the fusion of myoblasts to form myotubes could be seen. The myotubes developed within the original basal lamina and reattached to the surviving non-necrotic segments and grew in both length and width so that by 6 weeks postoperation, normal myotendinous junctions had been reformed. This study is the first to show that re-establishment of the myotendinous junction following tenotomy is accomplished by regeneration of the necrotic ends of the tenotomized fibers. 
Composition of atherosclerotic plaques in coronary arteries in women less than 40 years of age with fatal coronary artery disease and implications for plaque reversibility. This study analyzes the composition of atherosclerotic plaques in the 4 major epicardial coronary arteries in 8 women less than 40 years of age (mean 34) with fatal coronary artery disease (CAD) and compares these data to previous studies of 37 adults greater than 45 years of age (mean 59) with fatal CAD. Histologic sections were taken at 5-mm intervals from the entire lengths of the right, left main, left anterior descending and left circumflex coronary arteries. With the use of a computerized morphometry system, analysis of the 4 major epicardial coronary arteries showed the major component of plaque to be a combination of cellular (mean percent total plaque area = 65%, standard error = 6%) and dense (19%, standard error = 6%) fibrous tissue. Arterial segments narrowed greater than 75% in cross-sectional area from these young women were compared with similarly narrowed arteries from 37 older patients (32 men [86%]) with fatal CAD previously reported by this laboratory, and showed significantly more cellular fibrous tissue and lipid-rich foam cells, and lesser amounts of dense fibrous and heavily calcified tissue. The large amount of lipid-containing foam cells and relative lack of acellular scar tissue in coronary plaques in these young women suggests a greater potential for reversibility of these plaques in this subset of patients with CAD. 
Orbit-related variation in spatial resolution as a source of artifactual defects in thallium-201 SPECT The cause of 180-degree diametrical artifactual defects in clinical thallium-201 SPECT imaging was investigated using phantom simulation. This artifact was observed on SPECT images acquired with a "body contour" or "peanut" orbit. It was hypothesized that this artifact was caused by differences in spatial resolution that occur when the heart-to-detector distance changes employing noncircular orbits. To test this hypothesis, a series of planar static images of a normal cylindrical phantom was obtained at varying distances from the camera detector head. From these images, tomographic acquisition files were created that simulated tomographic data acquired with circular orbits and elliptical orbits. The reconstructed phantom short-axis slices showed no artifacts for circular orbits. However, for various elliptical orbits, significant regional nonuniformity, similar to the artifacts noted in patients, was observed. The degree of nonuniformity correlated with the long-short axis ratio of elliptical orbits (r = 0.98). In addition, circular orbits with the phantom in an eccentric position resulted in similar nonuniformities. It is concluded that a noncircular tomographic orbit can create characteristic artifacts on thallium-201 SPECT images. For rotational thallium 201 SPECT, a circular orbit with the heart in the center of rotation should be employed. 
Bowel obstruction: evaluation with CT Eighty-four computed tomographic (CT) scans from patients referred for bowel obstruction between January 2, 1988, and December 31, 1989, were retrospectively evaluated. A pair of radiologists without knowledge of patient histories determined the presence or absence of bowel obstruction. Sixty-four patients ultimately proved to have intestinal obstruction, and 20 did not. Diagnosis was established by means of surgery (n = 39), barium studies (n = 17), and clinical course (n = 28). Causes of obstruction included adhesions (n = 37), metastases (n = 6), primary tumor (n = 7), Crohn disease (n = 4), hernia (n = 3), hematoma (n = 2), colonic diverticulitis (n = 2), and other (n = 3). In addition, 83 CT examinations in patients with no history or indication of intestinal obstruction were simultaneously reviewed. The overall sensitivity was 94%, specificity was 96%, and accuracy was 95%. The cause of obstruction was correctly predicted in 47 of 64 cases (73%). Intestinal obstruction was not diagnosed in any of the 83 control patients. CT is most useful in patients with a history of abdominal malignancy and in patients who have not been operated on and who have signs of infection, bowel infarction, or a palpable abdominal mass. 
Postheparin plasma diamine oxidase values in the follow up of patients with small bowel Crohn's disease. Measurement of postheparin plasma diamine oxidase (PHD) activity has been proposed to assess mucosal integrity in several diseases of the small intestine. In Crohn's disease, PHD values identify a group of patients with predominantly small bowel mucosal damage. To determine the role of mucosal involvement in the progression of small bowel Crohn's disease and whether different PHD values can predict different outcomes the changes in PHD values in 41 patients with small bowel Crohn's disease admitted consecutively to our department were investigated. The test was performed during periods of active disease and after either medical or surgical treatment had resulted in improvement. PHD values were significantly lower than in normal subjects (normal range 3.7-7.7 U/ml). In 35 patients with active disease (Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) greater than 150) two groups were identified by choosing a cut off value of 2 U/ml: 93% of the 15 patients with PHD values lower than 2 U/ml (mean (SD) 1.36 (0.46) U/ml) relapsed at least once in the following year, while only the 20% of the 20 whose values were higher than 2 U/ml (mean (SD) 3.69 (1.50)) relapsed in the same period. The data were statistically significant (Yates's corrected chi 2 = 15.63; p less than 0.0001). The positive and negative predictive values of the test were 93% and 80%, respectively. During relapses, PHD values were consistently lower than previous values, and increased significantly after effective medical or surgical treatment. In the six patients in whom there were no changes in disease activity (CDAI persistently less than 150), there was no change in PHD values. 
The renal growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor I axis. Collecting duct is a major site of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) synthesis within kidney. Production of IGF-I at this site is stimulated by growth hormone (GH). IGF-I produced in collecting duct is likely to act on glomerulus and proximal tubule via IGF-I receptors present at these locations. Renal IGF-I may be causative of the glomerular and proximal tubular hypertrophy that occurs in hypersomatotropic states, of compensatory renal hypertrophy, and of renal regeneration following acute ischemic injury. 
Thermochemotherapy in inoperable head and neck cancer. A combined hyperthermia and chemotherapy approach was used to treat five patients with locally advanced or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck whose tumors had failed to respond to chemotherapy. In two patients, tumor had recurred after initial combined modality therapy (surgery/radiation) and had failed to respond to one course of cisplatin/5-fluorouracil (cisplatin/5-FU) chemotherapy. The three remaining patients were enrolled onto a phase II evaluation of induction chemotherapy with cisplatin/fluorouracil for advanced head and neck carcinomas and had failed to achieve a partial remission after one treatment cycle. Palpable cervical tumors were heated to 40 degrees to 42 degrees C for 30 to 40 minutes, during which time cisplatin (100 mg/m2) was infused intravenously. A 5-day infusion of 5-fluorouracil (1000 mg/m2/d) followed. Despite less than a partial response to previous cisplatin/fluorouracil chemotherapy alone, two patients had complete clinical resolution of the heated tumor volume with two cycles of the combined thermochemotherapy approach. One patient achieved a partial remission with this approach. The remaining two patients died shortly after the initial thermochemotherapy treatment, as a result of progressive tumor growth. The two complete responders were subsequently treated with radiation (1 patient) and radical neck dissection (1 patient) and remained without evidence of disease 2 and 26 months after the completion of therapy, respectively. The toxicity of this combined modality approach was acceptable and appeared to be no greater than had been experienced during earlier treatment with chemotherapy alone. Further studies using a combination of these treatment modalities for locally advanced head and neck carcinomas are warranted. 
Cytomegalovirus infection in Gambian mothers and their babies. A 15 month longitudinal study of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in 178 Gambian mothers and their babies was undertaken. Twenty five (14%) of the babies were congenitally infected despite the fact that 87% of their mothers were antibody positive to the virus. Two of the 25 congenitally infected infants had evidence of severe neurological damage; skin sepsis was also a prominent feature in congenitally infected infants. The other children soon became infected. At 6 months of age, 53% of the infants were shedding virus either in urine or saliva. By the age of 12 months 86% of the infants had serological evidence of CMV infection. Preliminary evidence suggests that sibling to sibling infection in crowded compounds might be a major route of transmission. 
Acid secretory responses and parietal cell sensitivity following duodenal ulcer healing with omeprazole, sucralfate, and Maalox. Acid secretory responses and parietal cell sensitivity (PCS) have been studied in 21 duodenal ulcer patients before and after successful treatment with omeprazole (n = 7), sucralfate (n = 7), or Maalox (n = 7). The second study was carried out 3 days after documented healing and withdrawal of treatment in the sucralfate- and Maalox-treated groups and 14 days after documented healing and withdrawal of treatment in the omeprazole-treated patients. Acid output (mmol/hour) was measured as basal secretion, and in response to 0.1 microgram/kg/hour pentagastrin (low-dose) and 6.0 micrograms/kg/hour pentagastrin (high-dose) stimulation. PCS was calculated as the ratio of low dose:high dose acid output (expressed as a percentage). Ulcer healing with sucralfate resulted in significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in low-dose acid output from 36.4% (13.2-51.0) (median [range]) to 8.4% (3.2-45.4) mmol/hour and PCS from 69.1% (44.9-91.4) to 22.0% (16.0-85.6), whereas no significant decreases in any of the measured parameters were noted following ulcer healing with Maalox. Ulcer healing with omeprazole resulted in significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in basal acid output from 6.3 (1.5-22.9) (median [range]) to 2.2 (0-6.9) mmol/hour, and low-dose acid output from 31.0 (6.0-58.0) to 23.0 (1.4-44.8) mmol/hour. These findings suggest that acid secretory responses following ulcer healing vary according to the therapeutic agent used. 
Selective versus routine predischarge coronary arteriography after therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator, heparin and aspirin for acute myocardial infarction. TIMI II Investigators. To ascertain whether predischarge arteriography is beneficial in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), heparin and aspirin, the outcome of 197 patients in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) IIA study assigned to conservative management and routine predischarge coronary arteriography (routine catheterization group) was compared with the outcome of 1,461 patients from the TIMI IIB study assigned to conservative management without routine coronary arteriography unless ischemia recurred spontaneously or on predischarge exercise testing (selective catheterization group). The two groups were similar with regard to important baseline variables. During the initial hospital stay, coronary arteriography was performed in 93.9% of the routine catheterization group and 34.7% of the selective catheterization group (p less than 0.001), but the frequency of coronary revascularization (angioplasty or coronary artery bypass surgery) was similar in the two groups (24.4% versus 20.7%, p = NS). Coronary arteriograms showed a predominance of zero or one vessel disease (stenosis greater than or equal to 60%) in both groups (routine catheterization group 73.1%, selective catheterization group 61.3%). During the 1st year after infarction, rehospitalization for cardiac reasons and the interim performance of coronary arteriography were more common in the selective catheterization group (37.9% versus 27.6%, p = 0.007 and 28.6% versus 11.6%, p less than 0.001, respectively); however, the interim rates of death, nonfatal reinfarction and performance of coronary revascularization procedures were similar. At the end of 1 year, coronary arteriography had been performed one or more times in 98.9% of the routine catheterization group and 59.4% of the selective catheterization group (p less than 0.001), whereas death and nonfatal reinfarction had occurred in 10.2% versus 7.0% (p = 0.10) and 8.6% versus 9.0% (p = 0.87), respectively. Because the selective coronary arteriography policy exposes about 40% fewer patients to the small but finite risks and inconvenience of the procedure without compromising the 1 year survival or reinfarction rates, it seems to be an appropriate management strategy. 
Safety and efficacy of oral flecainide therapy in patients with atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia. OBJECTIVE: To assess the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of oral flecainide therapy in patients with symptomatic tachycardia and an extranodal accessory pathway. DESIGN: Open-label, uncontrolled trial with a mean follow-up of 24 months. SETTING: Referral-based, teaching medical center. PATIENTS: Sixty-three patients with symptomatic tachycardia and an extranodal accessory pathway. INTERVENTIONS: Patients had electrophysiologic testing before and after the initiation of oral flecainide therapy and were followed long-term for the presence of symptoms, new physical limitations, and adverse effects of therapy. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Flecainide therapy prevented or slowed (324 +/- 59 ms to 398 +/- 55 ms; P less than 0.001) inducible sustained atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia in 44 of 63 patients (70%). Of the 44 patients discharged from the hospital, 33 (75%) have continued to receive flecainide therapy and have shown no adverse effects (mean follow-up, 24 +/- 10 months). Adverse cardiac reactions (proarrhythmia or sinus node suppression) attributable to flecainide occurred in 11 of 63 patients (17%); in 9 (82%) of these 11 patients, events were detected during either in-hospital monitoring or the electrophysiologic study done before discharge. Structural heart disease was detected by two-dimensional echocardiography in 8 of 11 patients who had adverse cardiac events and in 6 of 52 patients who did not have such events (P less than 0.001). Isoproterenol reversed the effects of flecainide therapy in 11 of 21 patients; 7 of the 11 patients had spontaneous clinical recurrences of tachycardia or palpitations during the follow-up period, but these symptoms occurred in only 1 of 10 patients who did not show isoproterenol-induced reversal (P = 0.02). CONCLUSIONS: Oral flecainide therapy was effective in 33 of 63 patients who had tachycardia and an extranodal accessory connection. Hospital monitoring during initial therapy is recommended, and flecainide should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with structural heart disease. An isoproterenol challenge appears to be helpful in predicting late recurrence of tachycardia. 
Motor unit firing rates in postpolio and control subjects during submaximal contraction. Postpolio patients have a deficit in strength recovery after isometric activity. The cause for this is unknown, but may be the result of higher motor unit firing rates during the activity, which leads to excessive fatigue of the motor units. The purpose of this study was to determine whether postpolio subjects recruited motor units at higher firing rates than control subjects. Twelve control and seven postpolio subjects were tested for maximal voluntary contraction of the quadriceps isometrically. Randomly, subjects performed isometric contractions for five 10-s periods freely against gravity (threshold) and at 20% and 40% of maximal voluntary contraction. Decompositional motor unit electromyographic analysis was used to measure motor unit amplitude, motor unit firing rate and counted number of motor units identified. Analysis was by univariate analysis of variance. Motor unit firing rate was not significantly greater (P greater than 0.05) in postpolio subjects than control subjects at all three levels of contraction. Thus, it is unlikely that an increased motor unit firing rate leads to the deficit in recovery of strength in postpolio subjects. 
Nutritional support in Crohn's disease: which route? Nutritional and clinical responses to three nutritional regimens were retrospectively evaluated in 81 Crohn's patients with active disease. Group 1 (n = 42) received a low residue oral diet, group 2 (n = 15) received chemically defined diets, and group 3 (n = 24), parenteral nutrition (PN). Weight gain was observed in a similar percentage of patients, whereas serum albumin increase was significant only in group 3: 3.15 +/- 0.66 versus 3.54 +/- 0.61 g/100 ml (p less than 0.05). Mean activity index decreased significantly in all groups (p less than 0.001), and length of stay in hospital was similar. Patients with intestinal obstruction had a better immediate response when submitted to PN: clinical remission was achieved in 75% of those in group 3, but in only 50% in groups 1 and 2 (p less than 0.05). Otherwise, short- and long-term outcome was similar. 
Multicenter evaluation of a new fixed-wire coronary angioplasty catheter system: clinical and angiographic characteristics and results. Coronary angioplasty is increasingly used as an attempt to revascularize patients with severe coronary artery disease. To determine the efficacy of such treatment, a new fixed wire angioplasty catheter was evaluated by a multicenter group in a non-randomized fashion in 50 patients, average 58 +/- 11 years (+/- 1 SD), 58% men. Forty-four percent had a prior revascularization procedure (28% angioplasty, 16% coronary bypass surgery), 38% had a prior Q-wave myocardial infarction, 43% had grade 4 angina, and 60% multiple vessel disease. Angioplasty was attempted in 63 lesions which were located in a mid to distal location in 69%, with a proximal tortuosity score of 1.8 (2 = 45-60 degrees entrance angle), and lesion angulation of 1.4 (1 = 45 degrees lesion bend). In 88%, the device was the primary catheter used and in 6%, it was chosen when another system failed. The balloon was able to successfully cross 94% of all lesions attempted. Six lesions were crossed and dilated but significant residual stenoses remained. There were no significant device malfunctions, or angiographic or clinical complications. This feasibility evaluation of this new fixed wire system yielded excellent angiographic results. Although not a comparative study, this analysis suggests that this new generation of angioplasty catheter may improve the safety and efficacy of complex coronary angioplasty. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of vertebrobasilar ectasia in tic convulsif. Case report. A patient with trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm was evaluated using multiplanar magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with gadolinium enhancement. Preoperative images demonstrated massively ectatic vertebral and basilar arteries and their distortion of the brain stem and the trigeminal and facial nerves. Surgical manipulation included selective trigeminal rhizotomy, cushioning of the residual nerve at the point of maximal distortion by the underlying basilar artery, and microvascular decompression of the seventh nerve from the anterior inferior cerebellar artery which was being pushed dorsomedially by the vertebral artery. Postoperatively, the patient had neither trigeminal neuralgia nor facial spasm. Gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging not only excludes other etiologies such as tumor or arteriovenous malformation, but also demonstrates cranial nerve compression by ectatic vertebral and basilar arteries. The choice of preoperative imaging modality is discussed and the literature concerning the etiology of tic convulsif is reviewed. 
Anatomic correction of transposition of the great arteries with ventricular septal defect. Experience with 118 cases. One hundred eighteen patients, 100 with transposition of the great arteries plus ventricular septal defect and 18 with double-outlet right ventricle and subpulmonary ventricular septal defect have undergone arterial switch and patch closure of the ventricular septal defect since February 1983. In transposition of the great arteries the ventricular septal defect was perimembranous in 70 cases, trabecular in 28, and infundibular in 10. Eleven patients had multiple ventricular septal defects. In addition to 18 patients with double-outlet right ventricle, malalignment of the conal septum was present in 19 cases. Coronary type A distribution was recognized in 79 cases, type C in one, type D in 24, and type E in 14. Great arteries were side by side in 19% of cases. Aortic coarctation was present in 31 cases, and subaortic obstruction in 9. Age at operation ranged from 4 days to 4 years (mean, 3.5 +/- 8.3 months), and mean weight was 4.0 +/- 1.6 kg. Thirty-seven infants were younger than age 1 month. Thirty-six patients underwent previous operations: pulmonary artery banding alone (n = 13), pulmonary artery banding and coarctation repair (n = 13), and coarctation repair alone (n = 10). Mean time between the first procedure and the switch was 2.2 months. Six patients with aortic coarctation underwent one-stage repair, through median sternotomy, aortic reconstruction, closure of the ventricular septal defect, and arterial switch. Perioperative mortality was 13.5% (70% confidence limit 10% to 17.6%, n = 16). It was directly related to coronary artery kinking in 50% of deaths and to anatomy and size discrepancy of the great arteries in the remaining deaths. Univariate analysis could not find any significant risk factor of in-hospital mortality. Mean follow-up of 30.3 +/- 23.5 months was achieved in all but 2 survivors. There was one late death. Ten patients underwent 11 reoperations for recoarctation (n = 1), pulmonary stenosis (n = 7), residual ventricular septal defect (n = 2), and stenosis of superior vena cava (n = 1). Two patients needed a permanent pacemaker. Actuarial survival and freedom from reoperation at 5 years were 84.5% +/- 3.6% and 85.7% +/- 4.6%, respectively. We conclude that anatomic correction of complex transposition is a safe method that offers good early and midterm results. 
Progressive deterioration of auditory evoked potentials after excision of an acoustic neurinoma: case report. The authors report the case of a 17-year-old girl who underwent excision of bilateral neurinomas of the cerebellopontine angle. Although her auditory evoked potentials were well maintained during the operation, they deteriorated gradually and progressively for the following 2 months. This seemed to reflect degeneration of the cochlear nerve fibers initiated by operative manipulation in the cerebellopontine angle in a patient who had no hearing when she awoke from surgery. 
von Hippel-Lindau disease: inadequacy of angiography for identification of renal cancers. Selective renal angiograms were retrospectively evaluated for the identification of renal cell cancers in patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL). Seven patients underwent angiography and surgery because of solid or complex renal masses identified at cross-sectional imaging. Nine kidneys underwent detailed examination by the surgeon and by a pathologist. There were 31 renal cancers. Angiography had enabled identification of only five cancers (16%), and six others (19%) had been suspected. Cancers detected angiographically were larger than those not detected (P less than .05). Solid tumors tended to appear less hypervascular than expected and occasionally had the angiographic appearance of atypical cysts. There were no false-positive angiograms. Angiography revealed only one cancer not previously suspected and changed the surgeon's approach for only one kidney (11%). The sensitivity and specificity of angiography were 35% and 100%, respectively. In these patients, selective renal angiography is not helpful for the detection or exclusion of cancer in a kidney. It does not have a limited role for vascular mapping prior to partial nephrectomy or tumor enucleation. 
Abnormal hormonal and renal responses to saline load in hypertensive patients with parental history of cardiovascular accidents. BACKGROUND. Acute cardiac and cerebrovascular accidents are more frequent in hypertensive subjects with a family history of acute vascular accidents. The mechanisms underlying the susceptibility to vascular disease in these subjects are unknown. We investigated whether a parental history of premature heart attack or stroke in hypertensive subjects is associated with abnormalities of sodium handling. METHODS AND RESULTS. Patients with mild, uncomplicated essential hypertension were divided into two subgroups according to family history: a subgroup with a parental history of premature heart attack or stroke (FV+, n = 18) and a subgroup with a family history completely negative for vascular accidents (FV-, n = 14). The two subgroups were comparable with respect to age, weight, sex distribution, blood pressure, duration of hypertension, cardiovascular risk factors, renal function, and organ damage. Baseline plasma renin activity (PRA), concentrations of aldosterone (PA), atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), and norepinephrine, and urinary electrolyte excretion were also comparable in the two subgroups. Despite these similarities, the responses to an acute saline load, measured under controlled metabolic and experimental conditions, were different in the two subgroups. In the FV+ subgroup at 60 minutes of saline load, PRA fell by 1.0 +/- 0.2 ng/ml/hr and PA concentration by 89.4 +/- 26 pg/ml and ANF concentration increased by 38 +/- 9 pg/ml, whereas in the FV- subgroup the corresponding responses were -2.3 +/- 0.3 ng/ml/hr (p less than 0.005), -190 +/- 43 pg/ml (p less than 0.05), and 80 +/- 13 pg/ml (p less than 0.005), respectively. Urinary sodium excretion was delayed in the FV+ subgroup (270 +/- 67 mu eq/min at 60 minutes) compared with the FV- subgroup (555 +/- 157 mu eq/min at 60 minutes, p less than 0.05). At 120 minutes of saline load, significant (p less than 0.005) differences in PRA and ANF concentration were still observed. In a control group of eight normal subjects the responses to a saline load were comparable to those in the FV- subgroup but greater than those in the FV+ subgroup at 60 minutes. CONCLUSIONS. These results provide evidence that the hormonal and renal adjustments to an acute salt load are impaired in hypertensive patients with a parental history of vascular accidents. We speculate that abnormalities of sodium handling may represent markers of a more rapid development of vascular injury in human hypertension. 
Rare intrathoracic complications in acute pancreatitis. Ascites and pleural effusions may complicate pancreatitis but pericarditis with pericardial effusion and tamponade is rare and necrosis of mediastinal fat has not been described before. All these complications occurred in the case reported here. 
Gentamicin and vancomycin removal by continuous venovenous hemofiltration. The dispositions and dose requirements for vancomycin and gentamicin were investigated in a 58-year-old man who was receiving long-term continuous venovenous hemofiltration. Estimates of clearance were obtained using a Bayesian parameter estimation program and stayed remarkably consistent throughout the therapy. Single daily doses of both vancomycin and gentamicin generally maintained the profiles for both drugs around the target ranges of peak 5-10 mg/L (gentamicin) and 25-40 mg/L (vancomycin) and trough less than 2 mg/L (gentamicin) and less than 10 mg/L (vancomycin). 
Spinal cord herniation associated with an intradural spinal arachnoid cyst diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. Two rare cases of spinal cord herniation associated with intradural spinal arachnoid cyst are reported. A preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scan demonstrated the presence of spinal cord herniation, identified as a protrusion continuous with the spinal cord. Surgery upon the intradural spinal arachnoid cyst improved progressive neurological dysfunction. The authors postulate that spinal cord herniation occurred for the following reason: The pressure of the intradural arachnoid cyst on the dorsal aspect of the spinal cord caused thinning of the dura, leading to a tear and, thus, the development of an extradural arachnoid cyst. Along with the enlargement of intradural arachnoid cyst, the spinal cord herniated through the tear in the dura into the extradural arachnoid cyst. 
Spinal cord schistosomiasis: a pediatric case mimicking intrinsic cord neoplasm. We present the clinical, myelographic, MRI, and histologic data on a 7-year-old girl with confirmed Schistosoma mansoni infection of the spinal cord. MRI of the granulomatous spinal lesion revealed extensive enlargement of the cord in the T11-12 area, with some intramedullary swelling extending to T-5 through T-7. The clinical manifestations of spinal schistosomiasis can be diverse, and there should be a high index of suspicion for all patients from endemic areas. 
Collagen stability and collagenolytic activity in the normal and aneurysmal human abdominal aorta. Two issues were addressed in this study. The first was whether a bona fide collagenase exists within the wall of the aorta. The second was whether the activity of this putative collagenase is greater in aneurysmal tissue. No collagenase could be extracted from the wall of the aorta under nondenaturing conditions. However, hydroxyproline was liberated from tissue samples allowed to autolyze at neutral pH under reaction conditions favoring the activity of collagenase. Such an activity was probably enzymic as it occurred in a time- and temperature-dependent fashion and was suppressed by chelators. In normal and stenotic tissue, activity was increased by adding aminophenylmercuric acetate, an activator of latent collagenase. Examination of the blanks revealed that the collagen of aneurysmal aorta was more soluble than normal. Furthermore, its digestion kinetics differed in a way that suggested that aneurysmal aorta possessed a labile component that was absent from normal tissue. Although the activity of the putative aortic collagenase was higher than normal in the aneurysmal tissue, our assays do not distinguish between changes in the amount or activity of the enzyme and alterations in the collagen. 
Late follow-up after repair of left ventricular aneurysm and (usually) associated coronary bypass grafting. This study assesses clinical and operative data (LV) aneurysm was repaired to determine factors that might predict in-hospital and long-term outcome. Long-term follow-up study was obtained in 296 of 298 patients undergoing LV aneurysm repair with or without coronary artery bypass grafting between 1974 and 1986. No patient had sustained a myocardial infarction within 2 weeks of surgery or was undergoing other concurrent cardiac surgery. The average age of the study patients was 57 +/- 9 years and the average ejection fraction was 35 +/- 13%. Ninety percent of the patients underwent concurrent bypass grafting, with an average of 2.2 +/- 1.3 grafts placed. Fourteen (5%) patients died in the hospital, with most deaths attributable to LV dysfunction. Advanced age and less extensive revascularization were correlates of in-hospital mortality. The 10-year survival was 57%, myocardial infarction-free survival 43%, and freedom from death, myocardial infarction and reoperative coronary surgery 41%. Advanced age, systemic hypertension, significant left main coronary artery narrowing and emergent operative status were multivariate correlates of long-term mortality. A low-risk population was defined by the absence of these risk factors, and high-risk by the presence of greater than or equal to 1 risk factors. The 10-year survival was 71% in the low-risk and 41% in the high-risk groups (p = .0006). The 10-year myocardial infarction free survival was 55% in the low-risk and 31% in the high-risk groups (p = 0.0017). LV aneurysm repair may be performed with acceptable in-hospital mortality, and the long-term risk may be stratified. 
Insulin resistance after surgery: normalization by insulin treatment. 1. Injury is known to be associated with variable degrees of tissue insensitivity to insulin. We measured insulin resistance in a group of non-obese, glucose-tolerant patients undergoing major elective surgery with an uncomplicated post-operative course. 2. Shortly after surgery, hyperglycaemia (7.3 +/- 0.6 versus 4.2 +/- 0.3 mmol/l glucose pre-surgery, mean +/- SEM, P less than 0.01) with normal insulin concentrations (73 +/- 15 versus 64 +/- 18 pmol/l) suggested the presence of insulin resistance. Counter-regulatory hormones were raised, whole-body protein oxidation was doubled (P less than 0.01) and energy expenditure was up by 18% (P less than 0.01). 3. Insulin sensitivity was quantified by clamping plasma glucose concentrations at 5.6 mmol/l during 24 h of total parenteral nutrition (15% protein, 55% glucose and 30% fat, supplying 1.25 times the measured resting energy expenditure) with a variable infusion of exogenous insulin. After surgery, eight times more insulin was needed than before surgery (14.14 +/- 1.15 versus 1.78 +/- 0.29 pmol min-1 kg-1, P less than 0.001) to maintain euglycemia. 4. After surgery, stimulation of net carbohydrate oxidation (18.8 +/- 1.4 versus 17.2 +/- 1.8 mumol min-1 kg-1 preoperatively, not significant), suppression of lipolysis and lipid oxidation and inhibition of ketogenesis occurred to the same extent as before surgery. Of the infused nutrients, the glucose was all oxidized, amino acids replaced endogenous protein losses (= neutral nitrogen balance) and lipids were stored. Insulin administration caused no further increment in oxygen consumption or energy expenditure. 
Renal effects of ANF (95-126), a new atrial peptide analogue, in dogs with experimental heart failure. Atrial natriuretic factor 95-126 [ANF (95-126)] is a novel 32 amino acid peptide which is thought to originate from the kidney. The systemic hemodynamic and renal effects of equimolar doses of intravenous synthetic ANF (95-126) and synthetic alpha ANF (99-126) were examined in normal dogs (n = 6) and in dogs with an arteriovenous (AV) fistula and chronic compensated high-output heart failure (n = 5). ANF (95-126) and alpha ANF (99-126) were infused at 5 and 10 pmol/kg/min for 75-min periods each. In the normal and AV fistula dogs the two peptides similarly decreased mean arterial pressures and right atrial pressures (P less than .05). Creatinine clearance and urinary volume excretion increased (P less than .05) in the normal dogs with both peptides, but only ANF (95-126) produced significant elevations (P less than .05) of these two parameters in the AV fistula animals. With the highest infusion dose, ANF (95-126) increased urinary sodium excretion to at least twice the levels observed with alpha ANF (99-126) in both groups of dogs (P less than .05). The decreases in plasma renin and aldosterone were comparable for the two peptides in both groups of animals. These results indicate that ANF (95-126) is more potent than alpha ANF (99-126) for the promotion of a natriuresis, particularly in AV fistula dogs with compensated high-output heart failure, in which the sodium excretory actions of alpha ANF (99-126) were attenuated markedly. 
Percutaneous biopsy of left adrenal masses: prevalence of pancreatitis after anterior approach. Acute pancreatitis is an unusual but recognized complication of percutaneous aspiration biopsy of the pancreas. As the pancreatic tail is located anterior to the left adrenal gland, percutaneous biopsy of a left adrenal mass via the anterior approach may result in needle passage through the tail of the pancreas with subsequent potential development of pancreatitis. To evaluate this risk, we retrospectively reviewed 48 CT-directed percutaneous aspiration biopsies of left adrenal masses done between 1984 and 1989 at two institutions. Positioning of the patient, the course of the needle, the number of needle passes, and the size of the needle were analyzed. Thirty-three (69%) of 48 biopsies of a left adrenal mass were performed by using the anterior approach. The pancreas was traversed by one or more needles in 32 of 33 cases. Biopsies were performed with 20- to 22-gauge needles, and the number of needle passes varied widely. The medical records of the 33 patients in whom the anterior approach was used also were reviewed for complications. Acute pancreatitis, which required 11-13 days of hospitalization, developed in two patients (6%). None of the other 31 patients suffered a complication. We conclude that the pancreatic tail is routinely traversed by the biopsy needle when biopsy of a left adrenal mass is done via the anterior approach and that severe acute pancreatitis can occur as a result. 
Changes of DNA methylation and chromatin structure in the human myeloperoxidase gene during myeloid differentiation. Expression of the myeloperoxidase (MPO) gene is tightly regulated in a tissue- and development-specific manner. Accumulation of MPO messenger RNA (mRNA) occurs only at the late myeloblastic and promyelocytic stages of myeloid differentiation and is negligible at other stages of myeloid development and in other tissues. The goal of our studies was to begin to understand the events that occur to control MPO gene expression during normal granulocytopoiesis. Chromatin structure of the MPO gene was evaluated by DNase I treatment of isolated nuclei and Southern blot analysis. No detectable DNase I hypersensitive sites were found in the region of the MPO gene in non-myeloid cells. One site was present in the 5' upstream region in myeloid cells that are developmentally too immature to transcribe MPO. Three sites of hypersensitivity in the regions of the putative MPO promoter and upstream region occurred in MPO-expressing promyelocytes. These sites were markedly reduced in terminally differentiated, non-expressing myeloid cells. Analysis of DNA methylation of the MPO gene using methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes showed that the gene was highly methylated in non-myeloid cells. Stepwise demethylation occurred in myeloid cells developmentally too immature to transcribe MPO. Maximal demethylation in the 5' gene region occurred in MPO-expressing promyelocytes. This methylation pattern did not change in terminally differentiated, MPO non-expressing myeloid cells. A somatic hybrid cell formed by fusion of HL-60 (MPO-expressing cells) and PUT (MPO non-expressing lymphoid cells) extinguished expression of MPO and showed a chimeric pattern of MPO gene methylation, suggesting that demethylation is necessary but not sufficient for expression of the MPO gene. Our studies show that demethylation and DNase I hypersensitivity of the MPO gene were associated with a tissue-dependent potential for MPO gene expression that preceded the developmental ability to express MPO mRNA. 
Genetic susceptibility to Parkinson's disease. Genetic factors clearly cause Lewy-body Parkinson's disease (PD) in a subset of autosomal-dominant families. However, most cases of PD are sporadic. The two most likely models of four discussed for sporadic PD are the reduced penetrance model and the multifactorial model. Sporadic PD is likely to be caused by the combined effect of environmental precipitating factors and genetic susceptibility factors. Because the number of major genetic factors is likely to be small, these hypotheses can be tested and genetic factors located using linkage mapping techniques. The affected pair analysis methods are especially suited to PD. Finding the genetic susceptibility factors for PD is important because this may be the fastest way to identify the environmental precipitating factors and because it may lead to prevention of PD. Because of the usefulness of identifying genetic susceptibility factors for PD, we are carrying out linkage studies in a group of 16 large autosomal-dominant families with PD and more than 300 living affected PD pairs. 
Tardive dyskinesia and chronic pain. Psychotropic drugs are frequently used to treat chronic pain. Tardive dyskinesia is a serious complication of such therapy, but is not mentioned in the pain literature. Two cases are reported and the implications discussed. 
Fracture line in post head injury optic nerve damage. Diminution of vision following head injuries involving the optic canal is not uncommon. In order to find out how a blunt trauma to the frontotemporal region produced damage to the optic nerve in its canalicular portion, this study was conducted on cadaveric skulls and its results are described. 
Auscultation with an esophageal stethoscope. A new test for pneumoperitoneum. Auscultation for the tympanic sound characteristic of developing pneumoperitoneum during insufflation of the abdomen at laparoscopy was performed with an esophageal stethoscope. Such auscultation detected pneumoperitoneum as soon as or sooner than did the other, standard methods to which it was compared. This test requires no additional maneuvers beyond those routine in standard laparoscopic and anesthetic procedures, providing a useful adjunctive test for pneumoperitoneum acquisition. 
Benign arterial dissections of the posterior circulation. Four young adults with spontaneous dissection of the vertebrobasilar system are reported. Clinically, two patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage and two with brain-stem ischemia. In two cases of ruptured arterial dissection of the posterior cerebral artery, angiography demonstrated fusiform and "sausage-like" dilatation of the involved vessel. In two cases of occlusive dissection of the basilar artery, angiography revealed the typical "string sign." All four patients were treated conservatively: three survive in good clinical condition and one remains disabled. Follow-up angiograms showed spontaneous healing of the lesion with return to an almost normal arterial configuration in two cases; residual narrowing corresponding to the dissection was the most notable finding in the other two. It is recommended that, in a subset of neurologically stable patients, angiographic monitoring is undertaken to assess the tendency for spontaneous repair before surgical intervention is planned. 
Presence of PAF-acether in stool of patients with pouch ileoanal anastomosis and pouchitis. Platelet-activating factor is an endogenous phospholipid produced by a wide variety of inflammatory cells. Platelet-activating factor induces severe pathological changes in various organs and, among numerous potent effects, causes bowel necrosis. Pouchitis is a poorly understood complication of ileoanal pouch anastomosis which occurs in patients who undergo surgery for ulcerative colitis. The aim of this study was to measure ileal or fecal platelet-activating factor and lyso platelet-activating factor contents in normal volunteers (n = 12), in patients with terminal ileostomy (n = 7), and in patients with ileoanal anastomosis (n = 15) (8 patients have pouchitis defined by the presence of ulcerations on the reservoir). Fecal samples were processed and assessed for platelet-activating factor by platelet aggregation assay. The aggregating material was further characterized as platelet-activating factor by the following: inhibition of the platelet aggregation it induced by specific platelet-activating factor receptor antagonist (BN 52021; IHB, Le Plessis Robinson, France); abolition of platelet aggregation after incubation with phospholipase A2 but not with lipase A1; and retention time on high-performance liquid chromatography. Stool platelet-activating factor content (in nanograms per gram of stool, mean +/- 1SD) was significantly increased in patients with pouchitis (22.2 +/- 16 ng/g) compared with patients with normal reservoir (1.59 +/- 0.63 ng/g, P less than 0.01), terminal ileostomy (0.59 +/- 0.43 ng/g, P less than 0.01), and healthy controls (0 +/- 0 ng/g of stool, P less than 0.001). Lyso platelet-activating factor (nanograms per gram of stool) was increased in patients with pouchitis (10,704 +/- 5499 ng/g) compared with patients with normal reservoir (4721 +/- 4549 ng/g of stool, P less than 0.05), terminal ileostomy (3042 +/- 4019 ng/g, P less than 0.02), and healthy volunteers (128 +/- 107 ng/g, P less than 0.001). In patients with ileoanal anastomosis and pouchitis, increased platelet-activating factor production could be implicated in the inflammation and ulcerations observed in the reservoir. 
Quinine-induced immune thrombocytopenia associated with hemolytic uremic syndrome: a new clinical entity. Three patients are described who developed severe thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and acute renal failure after ingestion of quinine. In one patient, the same clinical findings recurred several months later after another exposure to quinine. Serum from one patient contained quinine-dependent IgG antibodies reactive with the platelet glycoprotein (GP) Ib/IX complex. In the second and third cases, serum contained IgG and IgM antibodies reactive with both the GP Ib/IX and IIb/IIIa complexes in the presence of quinine. Quinine appears to have induced both immune thrombocytopenia and the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in these individuals. Findings made in these cases may have implications for the pathogenesis of some forms of HUS. 
Managing the care of patients with dementia. How to maximize level of functioning and minimize behavior problems. Effective treatment of patients with dementia involves supporting and educating the primary caregiver, uncovering and correcting the underlying cause of any decompensation that may occur, and deciding when drug therapy is appropriate. Caregivers must be taught how to cope with the patient's denial and how to modify the patient's environment so that it is safe and easy to understand. Pharmacologic therapy for depression accompanying dementia can improve a patient's quality of life and independence considerably; drugs may also be of help in dealing with patients who resist care. Psychotic symptoms usually do not require pharmacologic treatment, and hypnotics should, if possible, be avoided as a solution to sleep problems. 
Revision osteoarticular allograft transplantation in weight-bearing joints. A clinical review. The early results of revision osteoarticular allografts in weight-bearing joints are reported. Sixteen consecutive patients underwent surgery over a six-year period between 1982 and 1988. At the time of review eight patients (50%) had surviving second allografts with an average follow-up time of 48 months (range 12 to 87). Five patients were graded excellent according to the Mankin scale, one good and two fair. Eight patients (50%) required further surgery, but only two patients came to amputation. 
Inorganic mercury transport in the proximal tubule of the rabbit. Inorganic mercury transport was studied in the S1, S2, and S3 segments of the isolated perfused proximal tubule of the rabbit. The concentration of mercury in the perfusate was 18.4 microM. At this concentration all three segments of the proximal tubule underwent degenerative changes that proceeded to cellular necrosis at the end of the tubule which was attached to the perfusion pipet. This pathological process progressed along the tubule for approximately 200 microns. The remainder of the tubule, to the collection pipette, remained intact and free of any pathological changes. In examining the transport of mercury under these condition, it was found that, on average, the S1, S2, and S3 segments all removed inorganic mercury from the luminal fluid at approximately 140 fmol min-1 mm-1. The transport of mercury, as measured by the appearance of 203Hg in the bathing solution, was 80% lower than the removal of 203Hg from the luminal fluid. The mercury appearing in the bath could be accounted for by passive leakage through the necrotic portion of the tubule in the S1 and S2 segments, but not in the S3 segment. Leakage could account for only 16.2% of the transepithelial movement of inorganic mercury in the S3 segment. Inorganic mercury taken up by the tubule (92%) was primarily associated with the structural proteins of the tubular epithelial cells, while very little (8%) was found in the tubular extract. The toxicity of inorganic mercury was determined by titration. Perfusion with 1 microM inorganic mercury produced necrosis. The pathological features appeared to be the same as those resulting with 18.5 microM inorganic mercury. 
Colorectal ornithine decarboxylase activity in human mucosa and tumors: elevation of enzymatic activity in distal mucosa. To examine the value of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) assay as a biological marker of potential malignancy in large bowel, we harvested 43 colorectal carcinoma, 7 adenoma, 6 polyps, and 77 normal-appearing mucosa at surgery from patients with colorectal carcinoma. In addition, 13 normal rectal mucosa were obtained at biopsy from patients with benign diseases or diseases unrelated to colorectal carcinoma as normal control. ODC activity was significantly higher in polyps and adenocarcinomas than in normal-appearing mucosa from patients with colorectal carcinoma. ODC activity in normal-appearing mucosa varied throughout the large intestine, with significantly higher activities in the distal segment of the large bowel. The higher ODC activity detected in the sigmoid colon and rectum correlates with the larger incidence of tumor development in this region of the large bowel. This observation needs to be taken into consideration when ODC activities of the colorectal mucosa are measured as biological markers of potential malignancies. 
Pheochromocytoma of the urinary bladder. A case of pheochromocytoma of the bladder involving a ureteral orifice is presented, with a review of the literature. We discuss general management principles of bladder pheochromocytoma and factors specific to the management of our case, which allowed complete removal of the benign tumor while preserving bladder and ureteral function. Imaging modalities for localizing extraadrenal pheochromocytomas are reviewed. 
The concept of uterine preservation with ovarian malignancies. A 30-year-old woman with bilateral, recurrent, borderline papillary serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary was treated with bilateral oophorocystectomy and omentectomy with uterine preservation. Ten years later, through induction of an artificial endometrial cycle and ovum donation, she conceived twins and delivered two healthy infants. Staging exploratory laparotomy at the time of cesarean delivery was negative for malignancy. This case illustrates the value of uterine preservation for cases in which classical teaching has indicated hysterectomy with bilateral salpingoophorectomy. 
Comparison of the effects of atenolol and nifedipine on glucose, insulin, and lipid metabolism in patients with hypertension. Various aspects of carbohydrate and lipid metabolism have been studied in two groups of patients with mild hypertension before and after four months of treatment with either nifedipine (n = 12) or atenolol (n = 12). Mean (+/- SEM) blood pressure fell to the same degree following treatment with either nifedipine (147 +/- 3/98 +/- 2 to 134 +/- 2/85 +/- 2 mm Hg) or atenolol (149 +/- 3/99 +/- 2 to 135 +/- 2/86 +/- 3 mm Hg). Circulating plasma glucose, insulin, and triglyceride concentrations were measured at hourly intervals from 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM, before and after breakfast (8:00 AM), and at lunch time (noon). The response to treatment was different in the two groups. Specifically, plasma glucose concentration were unchanged and insulin concentrations were higher in association with atenolol treatment. In contrast, nifedipine-treated patients had similar plasma insulin, but lower plasma glucose and triglyceride concentrations after four months of therapy. The changes in day-long plasma glucose and insulin responses suggested that resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake had increased in association with atenolol treatment and decreased following nifedipine. This conclusion was supported in that measurement of insulin-stimulated glucose disposal showed a decrease in atenolol-treated patients and an increase in nifedipine-treated patients. Finally, plasma lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations did not change following atenolol therapy, whereas plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol increased in association with nifedipine administration. These data show that changes in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism observed with treatment of mild hypertension can vary significantly as a function of the drug used, despite similar beneficial effects on blood pressure. 
Toxicity and immunomodulatory effects of interleukin-2 after autologous bone marrow transplantation for hematologic malignancies. Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) for advanced hematologic malignancies is associated with high relapse rates. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells represent a potentially non-cross-resistant therapeutic modality that might prevent or delay relapses if used early after ABMT at a time when the tumor burden is minimal. However, high-dose chemoradiotherapy and ABMT might increase patients' susceptibility to IL-2 toxicity, and might interfere with immunologic responses to IL-2 in vivo. Therefore, to determine safety, tolerance, and immunomodulatory effects of IL-2 therapy early after ABMT, IL-2 was administered by continuous intravenous infusion to 16 patients 14 to 91 days (median, 33) after ABMT for acute leukemia, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma. Patients were sequentially assigned to escalating IL-2 "induction" doses (0.3 to 4.5 x 10(6) U/m2/d, days 1 to 5), and all patients received a nonescalating IL-2 "maintenance" dose (0.3 x 10(6) U/m2/d, days 12 to 21). Most patients exhibited mild to moderate fever, nausea, diarrhea, and/or skin rash with IL-2 infusions. The maximum tolerated "induction" dose was 3.0 x 10(6) U/m2/d; dose-limiting toxicities were hypotension and thrombocytopenia. All toxicities reversed on stopping the IL-2 infusions, and all patients completed "maintenance." Postinfusion lymphocytosis was exhibited by patients at all IL-2 dose levels. With the higher IL-2 doses, increased percentages of patients' PBMC expressed CD16 and CD56, with augmented lysis of K562 and Daudi, reflecting the induction of natural killer and circulating LAK effector activities. Increased LAK precursor activity was exhibited by patients at all IL-2 dose levels. Thus, the IL-2 therapy regimen was safely tolerated after ABMT, and pronounced immunomodulatory effects were observed with the higher IL-2 doses. These studies support the planned use of IL-2 and LAK cells after ABMT in an attempt to reduce relapses of advanced hematologic malignancies. 
Evaluation of indium-111-labeled antifibrin monoclonal antibody for the diagnosis of venous thrombotic disease The potential advantage of using 111In-antifibrin (111In-AF) monoclonal antibody for the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) was studied in 44 patients with suspected DVT (27 underwent heparin therapy before 111In-AF injection). All patients had contrast venography (considered as the gold standard) and 111In-AF scintigraphy within 24 hr. Two to 3 mCi of 111In-AF were injected intravenously, and planar scintigraphy of the limbs was recorded within 10 min (17 times), 3 hr (44 times), and 18 hr (39 times). Indium-111-AF images were then interpreted without knowledge of the results of the other examinations. The DVT diagnostic accuracy of 111In-AF was greater when interpretation was based on images recorded at different time periods after injection. Indium-111-AF sensitivity for diagnosis of DVT was 85% (29/34) and was not apparently decreased by heparin therapy. None of the 10 patients with negative contrast venography had a positive 111In-AF scan. The results demonstrate the importance of recording serial images and the excellent accuracy of 111In-AF for diagnosing DVT. 
The stomach in liver cirrhosis. Endoscopic, morphological, and clinical correlations. The stomachs of cirrhotic patients are frequently subject to a number of alterations, detectable by endoscopy, the presence of which indicates a disturbance in the mucosa. Several investigators believe that portal hypertension plays an etiopathogenetic role. Three groups of subjects were studied prospectively: 83 cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension, 53 cirrhotic patients without portal hypertension, and 135 control subjects. Snake skin, scarlatina rash, and petechia were the most frequent endoscopic findings in the cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension (P less than 0.001); these findings were also most frequently present in association with each other in this group. There was no correlation between the endoscopic findings, the clinical gravity of liver cirrhosis (Child-Pugh grade), and the gravity of esophageal varices (Beppu score). There were no characteristic inflammatory findings in the gastric mucosa. Hypergastrinemia was often observed in cirrhotic patients with and without angiodysplasias. 
Different lectin-binding patterns in primary breast cancers and their metastases. The expression of glycoconjugates in primary tumors and their metastases in 18 consecutive cases of metastasized breast cancer was studied by use of lectin histochemistry. Paraffin sections were stained with a panel of seven fluorochrome-labeled lectins with defined sugar specificities. The study revealed variation in the lectin binding patterns of individual cancers. In the primary tumors the lectin reactivity was diversified, whereas in their respective metastases it was rather homogeneous. This finding indicates that there is intratumoral heterogeneity in the primary cancers, whereas the selected subclones of malignant cells with restricted glycoconjugate expression seem to give rise to metastases. 
Pyridostigmine used as a nerve agent pretreatment under wartime conditions. OBJECTIVE. To determine the adverse effects of pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide for nerve agent exposure during wartime. DESIGN. A retrospective study. SETTING. Southwest Asia. PARTICIPANTS. Personnel who provided medical support to the XVIII Airborne Corps. These medical officers supplied information pertaining to symptoms and disposition of 41,650 soldiers who received pyridostigmine at the onset of hostilities of Operation Desert Storm. INTERVENTION. Pyridostigmine bromide, 30 mg orally, was self-administered every 8 hours while under the threat of nerve agent attack (for 1 to 7 days). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE. Physiologic changes attributable to pyridostigmine that resulted in need for medical attention, discontinuation of the drug, hospitalization, and/or evacuation from Southwest Asia. RESULTS. About half of the population noted physiologic changes that were not incapacitating, such as increased flatus, abdominal cramps, soft stools, and urinary urgency. Approximately 1% of the soldiers believed they had effects that warranted medical attention, but fewer than 0.1% had effects sufficient to discontinue the drug. Nonincapacitating symptoms often occurred; however, military mission performance was not impaired. CONCLUSION. While under the threat of nerve agent attack, pyridostigmine can be administered to virtually all soldiers. 
Phase I/II trial of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Forty-seven patients with hematologic neoplasia received recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) by daily 2-hour infusion following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from HLA-identical sibling donors in a phase I-II dose-escalation trial. Dose levels ranged from 30 to 500 micrograms/m2/d. At doses at or below 250 micrograms/m2/d, toxicity felt to be caused by rhGM-CSF was negligible. However, three of five patients treated with 500 micrograms/m2/d had unacceptable side effects caused by rhGM-CSF. Two different graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylactic regimens were administered. Twenty-seven evaluable patients were administered regimens that did not contain methotrexate (MTX) (Group I) and reached an absolute neutrophil count of 1,000/microL by a median of day 14. In contrast, 18 patients who received GVHD prophylactic regimens containing MTX (Group II) reached an absolute neutrophil count of 1,000/microL on a median of day 20. Patients in Group I had fewer febrile days and, of those discharged, had shorter initial hospitalizations than patients in Group II. The overall incidence of severe acute GVHD (grade 2 or greater) in the rhGM-CSF-treated patients was 28% and was similar to that in historical "good risk" patients who did not receive rhGM-CSF. These preliminary data suggest rhGM-CSF is unlikely to exacerbate GVHD in HLA-identical sibling donor transplants and indicate the need for randomized trials of rhGM-CSF in allogeneic marrow transplant patients. 
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging of the brain: value of differentiating between extraaxial cysts and epidermoid tumors. This study demonstrates the use of diffusion-weighted MR imaging in improving the specificity of the diagnosis of extraaxial brain tumors. Three surgically proved lesions (one arachnoid cyst and two epidermoid tumors) and two nonsurgically proved lesions (arachnoid and ependymal cysts) were evaluated with T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo studies followed by intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) MR imaging. The IVIM images of the lesions were displayed as an apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) image obtained at 0.65 G/cm (maximum gradient b value = 100 sec/mm2) and compared with external oil and water phantoms. The ADC of arachnoid cysts was similar to stationary water whereas the ADC of epidermoid tumors was similar to brain parenchyma, indicating the solid nature and the slower diffusion rate of the epidermoid tumors. Cisternal CSF demonstrated uniformly high ADC, primarily because of bulk flow, which enhanced image contrast. Improved delineation of postsurgical changes was also possible. Our preliminary results show that diffusion-weighted MR imaging can be useful in distinguishing between arachnoid cysts and epidermoid tumors. 
Invasive Chrysosporium infection of the nose and paranasal sinuses in an immunocompromised host. Aggressive fungal rhinosinusitis with Chrysosporium sp. occurred in a patient with acute lymphocytic leukemia. The infecting organism is an exceedingly rare human pathogen. Usually, human chrysosporial infections are mild and unmarked by symptoms. Most case reports appear in the pathology literature and describe the incidental finding of adiaspores in the pulmonary parenchyma at autopsy. Clinical disease from active growth of chrysosporial mycelia in human tissues has been noted on a porcine aortic valve prosthesis and in a tibial abscess. Hyphal elements were not recovered from any other body parts of these patients. Histopathologic and microbiologic studies permitted the identification of this rarely encountered organism. Our patient experienced systemic spread of Chrysosporium organisms. Treatment of this pathogen is the same as for other opportunistic fungal infections. 
Conventional versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy and the randomized controlled trial. Cholecystectomy Study Group We considered using a randomized trial to assess the value of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the treatment of symptomatic gallstones. The pros and cons for the timing of such a trial were in favour of not beginning the trial until surgeons learned to use the new procedure safely and effectively, and until key endpoints and outcome indices could be identified and assessed using valid measures. Instead an observational study was implemented to monitor the learning curve of surgeons as they mastered the laparoscopic equipment and procedures, and to assess the responses of the patients to the procedure. In the first 100 patients, the procedure proved to be as safe and feasible to use as conventional surgery, and there were strong benefits in terms of quicker recovery of the patients with less pain, discomfort, and a reduced length of hospital stay. The responses of the surgeons and the patients to the new procedure now place ethical constraints on the planning of a randomized controlled trial. Currently, comprehensive surveillance and monitoring of laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the only realistic method with which to assess the impact of this new technology in our clinic. 
The radiology of headache. The patient who presents with a severe and acute headache should be evaluated radiographically with CT. The key diagnosis to make in this situation is hemorrhage, either subarachnoid or intraparenchymal. Computed tomography is more sensitive to acute hemorrhage than is MRI. When the patient is stable, MRI frequently contributes information to narrow the diagnostic possibilities, because vascular malformations and certain parenchymal lesions have a characteristic appearance on MRI. Hydrocephalus may also present acutely and is easily seen on CT or MRI. In a patient may show WMF and atrophy. The patient with trigeminal neuropathy may demonstrate central or peripheral lesions. In temporomandibular joint dysfunction, conventional tomography and MRI are frequently used. Magnetic resonance imaging shows excellent detail of the disk and surrounding soft tissues, whereas tomography better demonstrates bony changes. When a history of trauma is present, MRI may show a subacute subdural hematoma. These collections are easily seen on MRI, even when isodense on CT. Evidence of old shear injury is also well seen on MRI. Finally, neoplastic, inflammatory, congenital, and idiopathic sources of headache may be demonstrated by either MRI or CT, depending on presentation. MRI will generally show superior characterization. 
Successful removal of massive intragastric gallstones by endoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy and mechanical lithotripsy. We describe a case of massive gallstones discharged into the stomach through a cholecystoduodenal fistula and the successful removal of these stones by endoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy (EEHL) and endoscopic mechanical lithotripsy (EML) for the prevention of gallstone ileus. A 60-yr-old woman was admitted with epigastric pain and nausea. Upper gastrointestinal tract examination demonstrated backflow of contrast medium from the duodenal bulb into the gallbladder. Endoscopic examination revealed a large fistula on the anterior wall of the duodenal bulb, and two brown stones (about 3 cm in diameter) were found in the stomach. To prevent gallstone ileus, removal of these stones was attempted. They were broken into pieces by EEHL, then crushed into smaller pieces by EML and removed orally. Chemical analysis showed the composition of the gallstones to be at least 98% cholesterol. The patient was discharged one month after removal of the gallstones and has remained asymptomatic. 
Reactive arthritis due to hidradenitis suppurativa mimicking osteomyelitis. We have reported a case of erosive arthritis of the hand preceding the appearance of hidradenitis suppurativa in the ipsilateral axilla, which was mistaken for osteomyelitis. Recognition of this presentation is important to avoid unnecessary invasive diagnostic procedures and to initiate prompt treatment directed at the underlying cause. 
Ovarian cancer screening. For populations in which preventive measures have been applied for the more common causes of death, the early detection of ovarian cancer becomes the next focus of efforts to reduce premature death among women. Data regarding the effectiveness of ultrasonography in detecting early-stage ovarian cancer are reviewed. Ultrasonography is more sensitive than pelvic examination in detecting ovarian abnormalities but lacks specificity in distinguishing benign from malignant ovarian lesions. Combined with serum CA 125 levels, ultrasonography may provide an effective screening tool, although cost-effectiveness has not been demonstrated and its effectiveness in reducing mortality from ovarian cancer has not been completely evaluated. Guidelines are presented for the use of ultrasonography in evaluating the postmenopausal ovary. 
Histiocytes in Sweet's syndrome. The histological features of biopsies from 18 previously unreported cases of Sweet's syndrome are reported. The dermal infiltrate in the majority of the cases contained numerous histiocytes that at first sight appeared to mimic neutrophils. The immunophenotype of these histiocytes was consistent with monocytes that have freshly infiltrated into the lesions. Only two of the cases in this series, associated with leukaemia, displayed the histological features of Sweet's syndrome with a predominant neutrophilic infiltration. We suggest that the initiating mechanisms in Sweet's syndrome are that monocyte/histiocyte-derived cytokines such as the interleukins IL-1 and IL-8, secreted either by infiltrating histiocytes in the non-leukaemia-associated cases of Sweet's syndrome or by tumoural myelomonocytic cells in those associated with leukaemia, are responsible for the systemic manifestations and the infiltration with neutrophils in the skin lesions. 
Elevated circulating interleukin-6 is associated with an acute-phase response but reduced fixed hepatic protein synthesis in patients with cancer. It has been suggested that, as part of the inflammatory response to the presence of a tumor, various cytokines are produced and these induce hepatic synthesis of acute-phase proteins (APP). Under these circumstances it is not known what changes occur in the fixed component of hepatic protein synthesis. The aim of this study was to compare circulating interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) concentrations and fixed hepatic protein synthesis rates in a group of healthy controls (n = 6) with a group of patients with an established APP response secondary to hepatic metastasis from colorectal cancer (n = 6). Fixed hepatic protein synthesis rates were measured following a primed, constant 20-hour infusion of 15N-glycine. The liver was biopsied at laparotomy. The APP response was assessed by serum C-reactive protein concentration and cytokines were assayed by a combination of immunoassay and bioassay. The patients with advanced cancer and an on-going APP response had elevated circulating IL-6 concentrations (p less than 0.01). Rates of fixed hepatic protein synthesis were 30% lower than those observed in controls (p less than 0.01). These findings demonstrate that in patients with hepatic metastasis, although the synthesis of certain acute-phase export proteins can be increased, fixed protein synthesis is reduced. Whether these changes in the distribution of hepatic protein synthesis are mediated by IL-6 will require further investigation. 
Experience with a third-generation implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. A Medtronic 7216A pacemaker cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted in 16 patients (mean age 56 years) with sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF) and organic heart disease with a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 33%. Endocardial and epicardial defibrillation shock efficacy was evaluated before or at implant using 1 to 3 shock patterns, i.e., monophasic single, sequential or simultaneous shocks with dual and triple electrode configurations. Endocardial leads used a common right ventricular cathode and dual anodes, whereas epicardial leads used 2 or 3 helical coil patches. VT termination was evaluated using pacing or shock therapy, or both, whereas only shocks were used in VF. Programmable bradycardia pacing, individual zones for VT and VF detection and individualized pacing and shock therapy for VT and VF were used. Monophasic shocks had epicardial defibrillation thresholds ranging from 3 to 18 (mean 10) J and were comparable for sequential and simultaneous shocks (p greater than 0.2). VT detection rates ranged from 340 to 470 ms and VF detection rates from 270 to 330 ms. VT or VF induction, or both, was performed noninvasively in 13 patients after implant and was reproducibly terminated by rapid pacing alone (5 patients), low-energy shocks (2 patients), high-energy shocks (3 patients) and combined therapy (3 patients). Intermediate or high-energy shocks terminated all induced VF episodes. During follow-up (2 to 12 months), there have been 2 noncardiac deaths. Electrical therapy was delivered in 7 patients, for VT (3 patients), VT and VF (3 patients) and indeterminate tachyarrhythmia (1 patient). All VT/VF episodes were successfully terminated, with 78 of 96 (81%) spontaneous VT episodes terminated by pacing. Follow-up reprogramming was required in 5 patients. It is concluded that successful application of individualized electrical therapy prescriptions in patients with VT/VF is feasible. Pacing therapies, which are effective for induced VT, can be reliably used for effective long-term spontaneous VT termination in conjunction with shock therapy and can permit reduced patient exposure to shock therapy. Thus, a programmable hybrid pacemaker cardioverter-defibrillator system provides nonthoracotomy implantation, effective VT/VF termination, demand ventricular pacing and noninvasive modes for arrhythmia induction, event monitoring and clinical trouble-shooting. 
Laparoscopic treatment of painful perihepatic adhesions in Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome. This report illustrates a case of Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome associated with pelvic inflammatory disease in which the clinical symptom of right upper quadrant pain was severe and persistent despite appropriate antibiotic therapy. Because of the atypical course, an extensive work-up was performed to rule out other possible etiologies for the pain. In this context, a laparoscopy was performed and identified dense adhesions between the liver and the anterior abdominal wall. These adhesions were safely and successfully lysed using a KTP/532 laser through a second puncture site. After surgery the pain was completely resolved, with no further recurrence after 6 months of follow-up. 
Severely injured geriatric patients return to independent living: a study of factors influencing function and independence. Our previous work demonstrated that geriatric trauma patients (age greater than 65 years) consume disproportionate amounts of health care resources. In the past we hypothesized that late mortality is high, long-term outcome is poor, and return to independence is low in a severely injured geriatric population. Of 6,480 trauma admissions over 5 years, geriatric patients (n = 495) with blunt trauma injury (n = 421) and an ISS greater than 16 (n = 105) who survived until discharge (n = 61) underwent long-term follow-up (mean = 2.82 years). We surveyed 20 measures of functional ability; 10 measures of independence; availability and use of rehabilitation resources; employment history; alcohol use; support systems; and nursing home requirements. Of the 105 patients, 7 were subsequently lost to follow-up. Among the remaining 98, 44 (44.9%) died in hospital and 54 (55.1%) were discharged and interviewed. The mean age of the contacted patients was 72.6; their mean ISS was 23.3. Forty eight of 54 (88.9%) were alive at the time of interview, while 6/54 (11.1%) had died. Although only 8/48 patients regained their preinjury level of function, 32/48 (67%) returned to independent living. The 32 independent patients, those with "acceptable" outcome, were compared with an "unacceptable" outcome group composed of the 44 in-hospital deaths, the 6 late deaths, and the 16 dependent patients. Factors associated with poor outcome include a GCS score less than or equal to (p = 0.001), age greater than or equal to 75 (p = 0.004), shock upon admission (p = 0.014), presence of head injury (p = 0.03), and sepsis (p = 0.03). 
Coronary bypass surgery improves global and regional left ventricular function following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. TAMI Study Group. Coronary bypass surgery was performed prior to hospital discharge in 303 (22%) of 1387 consecutive patients enrolled in the TAMI 1 to 3 and 5 trials of intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Bypass surgery was of emergency nature (less than 24 hours from treatment with intravenous thrombolytic therapy) in 36 (2.6%) and was deferred (greater than 24 hours) in 267 (19.3%) patients. The indications for bypass surgery included failed angioplasty (12%); left main or equivalent coronary disease (9%); complex or multivessel coronary disease (62%); recurrent postinfarction angina (13%); and refractory pump dysfunction, mitral regurgitation, ventricular septal rupture or abnormal predischarge functional test (1% each). Although patients having bypass surgery were older (59.5 +/- 9.8 versus 56.0 +/- 10.2 years, (p less than 0.0001), had more extensive coronary artery disease (46% with three-vessel disease versus 11%, (p less than 0.0001), had more frequent diabetes mellitus (19% versus 15%, (p = 0.048), had more prior infarctions (p less than 0.0001), had more severe initial depression in global left ventricular ejection fraction (48.0 +/- 11.9% versus 51.8 +/- 11.9%, p = 0.0002), and regional infarct zone (-2.7 +/- 0.94 versus -2.5 +/- 1.1 SD/chord, p = 0.02) and noninfarct zone function (-0.36 +/- 1.8 versus 0.43 +/- 1.6 SD/chord, p less than 0.0001) than patients not having coronary bypass surgery, no difference in the incidence of death in hospital (7% surgical versus 6% nonsurgical) or death at long-term follow-up of hospital survivors (7% surgical versus 6% nonsurgical) was noted between groups. Surgical patients demonstrated a greater degree of recovery in left ventricular ejection fraction (3.4 +/- 9.8% versus 0.16 +/- 8.5%, p = 0.036) and infarct zone regional function (0.71 +/- 1.1 versus 0.34 +/- 0.99 SD/chord, p = 0.001) when immediate (90 minutes following initiation of thrombolytic therapy) and predischarge (7 to 14 days after treatment) contrast left ventriculograms were compared than did patients who received only intravenous thrombolytic therapy with or without coronary angioplasty. These data suggest a beneficial influence of coronary bypass surgery on left ventricular function and possibly on the clinical outcome of patients initially treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. 
Mechanism of inhibitory action of prostaglandins on the growth of human gastric carcinoma cell line KATO III. Prostaglandins (PGs) play important roles in the regulation of various gastric functions. In this study, the effects of various PGs on the growth of the human gastric carcinoma cell line KATO III were investigated. All the PGs tested inhibited KATO III cell growth with a relative potency order of PGE2 greater than PGE1 greater than 17S,20-dimethyl-6-oxo PGE1-methyl ester (ornoprostil) greater than PGF2 alpha. This inhibition was accompanied by an increase of cyclic adenosine monophosphate production. Furthermore, in the presence of guanosine triphosphate, these PGs stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in the plasma membrane of KATO III cells, followed by enhancement of membrane guanosine triphosphatase activity. The relative potencies of these PGs for increasing cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, activating adenylate cyclase, and enhancing guanosine triphosphatase activity were all comparable to those for inhibiting cell growth. On the other hand, the proliferation of KATO III cells was also inhibited by forskolin as well as dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate, whereas none of the agents that did not increase cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels had any effect. These results suggest that PGs inhibit KATO III cell growth by stimulating cyclic adenosine monophosphate production via a guanosine triphosphate-dependent process, suggesting the involvement of guanosine triphosphate-binding stimulatory protein, probably coupled to PGE2 receptors, in the action of PGs. 
Successful percutaneous closure of a complex coronary-to-pulmonary artery fistula using a detachable balloon: benefits of intra-procedural physiologic and angiographic assessment. A 48-yr-old woman presented with a loud continuous precordial murmur and symptoms of fatigue. Color-flow doppler imaging and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging failed to show the cause of the murmur. Diagnostic catheterization showed a large left anterior descending coronary artery to pulmonary artery fistula with impaired left ventricular wall motion. Two detachable balloons were deployed in the fistula with complete abolition of flow in the main fistula channel. A small parallel channel of the fistula, previously not appreciated due to vessel overlap, remained patent but had trivial flow as assessed by green-dye and oximetric techniques. The patient had immediate resolution of her symptoms and return of normal ventricular wall motion. 
Bilateral gluteus maximus transposition for anal incontinence. Seven patients (five men and two women) ranging in age from 26 to 65 years (means = 44) underwent bilateral gluteus maximus transposition for complete anal incontinence. The indications for operation were sphincter destruction secondary to multiple fistulotomies (n = 4), bilateral pudendal nerve damage (n = 2), and high imperforate anus (n = 1). The procedure is performed without the use of a diverting colostomy. The inferior portion of the origin of each gluteus maximus is detached from the sacrum and coccyx, bifurcated, and tunneled subcutaneously to encircle the anus. The ends are then sutured together to form two opposing slings of voluntary muscle. Postoperatively, six patients regained continence to solid stool, two to liquid stool as well, and only one patient in this group was able to control flatus. Although resting pressures remained unchanged, voluntary squeeze pressures were restored by this operation. In addition, rectal sensation was markedly improved, which helps make this a worthwhile procedure for properly selected patients. 
Effects of hemoperfusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty on left ventricular function. The effect of autologous blood perfusion, delivered through an angiographic power injector, on alleviating left ventricular (LV) hemodynamic deterioration during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was examined. LV systolic and diastolic pressures, LV peak positive and peak negative first derivative of LV pressure (dP/dt), and ST-segment shift were recorded in 9 patients with and without hemoperfusion. Hemoperfusion resulted in an improved LV hemodynamic profile during balloon occlusion, as reflected in LV systolic pressure (127 +/- 14 vs 120 +/- 15 mm Hg, p = 0.01), LV end-diastolic pressure (17 +/- 14 vs 25 +/- 6 mm Hg, p less than 0.001), peak positive (1,237 +/- 240 vs 1,149 +/- 225 mm Hg/s, p less than 0.05) and peak negative (1,666 +/- 357 vs 1,485 +/- 385 mm Hg/s, p = 0.003) dP/dt. Hemoperfusion provides substantial protection for significant LV dysfunction induced by conventional PTCA in 1-vessel angioplasty and is a feasible option to protect against potential cardiovascular collapse in high-risk PTCA. 
Cisplatin and fluorouracil chemotherapy does not yield long-term benefit in locally advanced head and neck cancer: results from a single institution. Fifty-one patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer were treated with three cycles of cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 followed by 5-day continuous infusion fluorouracil (5-FU) at 1,000 mg/m2/d as induction chemotherapy. Subsequent local therapy consisted of surgery for patients with resectable disease and/or radiotherapy. Three cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy were administered to patients with partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) to induction chemotherapy. Twenty-two patients (43%) had a clinical CR that was pathologically confirmed in 12 patients (24%), and 24 patients (47%) had a PR for an overall response rate of 90%. Local therapy included surgery in 24 patients (47%) and radiotherapy alone in 22 patients (43%). Adjuvant chemotherapy was administered to 32 patients (63%) frequently at great dose reduction. At a median follow-up of 90 months, the median survival is 22 months (95% confidence interval, 15 to 36 months), and the 5-year survival is 25%, with only five patients known to be alive and disease-free at this time. The median time to progression is 14 months, with 29 patients (57%) having documented progression of their head and neck cancer and eight (16%) having progression of a second neoplasm. Seven patients died of intervening medical events. This high incidence of second malignancies supports the continued investigation of chemoprevention for patients in CR. Despite the known high response rates achieved with cisplatin and 5-FU induction chemotherapy, the overall poor survival data reported here should lead to a thorough reexamination of the frequent administration of this regimen in the community. 
Periorbital necrobiotic xanthogranuloma and stage I multiple myeloma. Ultrastructure and response to pulsed dexamethasone documented by magnetic resonance imaging. We observed a 40-year-old woman with necrobiotic xanthogranuloma from the inception of indurated eyelid and periorbital infiltrates and concurrent stage I multiple myeloma to resolution of infiltrates in skin and bone marrow after pulsed high-dose oral dexamethasone therapy. Ultrastructural studies revealed lipid vacuoles in epidermal keratinocytes, in dermal histiocytic macrophages, and in vascular and lymphatic endothelial cells. The presence of lipid vacuoles in epidermal keratinocytes has not been reported previously in xanthogranuloma. 
Basal and maximum acid output after continuous overnight gastric aspiration. Basal and maximum acid outputs were measured on two occasions in a group of 15 duodenal ulcer (DU) patients in remission. The initial study was carried out after a nocturnal acid collection, whereas the second was carried out in the conventional manner without preceding nocturnal aspiration. No difference in the basal acid output, concentration, or volume of secretion was found between the two study days. Maximum acid output on the other hand, was significantly (p less than 0.02) reduced from 30.9 (14.2-41.2) mmol/h, median (+range), to 23.7 (8.1-33.7) mmol/h after overnight aspiration. The reduction in maximum acid output was attributable to a fall in the volume of gastric secretion from 280 (170-371) ml to 230 (142-280) ml. No fall in acid concentration was seen. We conclude that overnight gastric aspiration does not affect basal gastric secretion, but reduces the maximum acid output as a result of a reduced secretory volume. 
Helicobacter pylori infection and the risk of gastric carcinoma BACKGROUND. Infection with Helicobacter pylori has been linked with chronic atrophic gastritis, an inflammatory precursor of gastric adenocarcinoma. In a nested case-control study, we explored whether H. pylori infection increases the risk of gastric carcinoma. METHODS. From a cohort of 128,992 persons followed since the mid-1960s at a health maintenance organization, 186 patients with gastric carcinoma were selected as case patients and were matched according to age, sex, and race with 186 control subjects without gastric carcinoma. Stored serum samples collected during the 1960s were tested for IgG antibodies to H. pylori by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Data on cigarette use, blood group, ulcer disease, and gastric surgery were obtained from questionnaires administered at enrollment. Tissue sections and pathology reports were reviewed to confirm the histologic results. RESULTS. The mean time between serum collection and the diagnosis of gastric carcinoma was 14.2 years. Of the 109 patients with confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma (excluding tumors of the gastroesophageal junction), 84 percent had been infected previously with H. pylori, as compared with 61 percent of the matched control subjects (odds ratio, 3.6; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.8 to 7.3). Tumors of the gastroesophageal junction were not linked to H. pylori infection, nor were tumors in the gastric cardia. H. pylori was a particularly strong risk factor for stomach cancer in women (odds ratio, 18) and blacks (odds ratio, 9). A history of gastric surgery was independently associated with the development of cancer (odds ratio, 17; P = 0.03), but a history of peptic ulcer disease was negatively associated with subsequent gastric carcinoma (odds ratio, 0.2; P = 0.02). Neither blood group nor smoking history affected risk. CONCLUSIONS. Infection with H. pylori is associated with an increased risk of gastric adenocarcinoma and may be a cofactor in the pathogenesis of this malignant condition. 
The noncemented porous-coated hip prosthesis. A three-year clinical follow-up study and roentgenographic analysis. This was a retrospective study reviewing 68 hip arthroplasties performed with noncemented, porous-coated components at three institutions in the period between December 1983 and June 1987. Fifty of these were available for follow-up study. The mean follow-up period was three years (range, 18-56 months). Thirty-seven patients were treated by total hip arthroplasty (THA) with porous-coated components, and thirteen were implanted with porous-coated femoral stems with bipolar endoprostheses using a porous-coated femoral stem and a universal head. The mean Harris hip score at follow-up evaluation for the entire group was 85.7 points. Eighty percent of the patients had either a good or excellent result. Those patients implanted with a porous femoral stem with bipolar acetabular components had only 54% good or excellent results compared with 90% good or excellent results for those having THA. Roentgenographic findings included a 59% rate of femoral neck cortex osteopenia, an 80% rate of medial or lateral distal cortical hypertrophy, and an 80% rate of distal bone bridging. All of these roentgenographic changes were secondary to changes in stress transference to the proximal femur. There was no correlation between thigh pain or the degree of bone-prosthesis radiolucencies and the fit of the femoral stem. 
Rupture of low transverse cesarean scars during trial of labor We report eight cases of rupture of low transverse cesarean scars occurring during trials of labor. The cases occurred in five hospitals in the Denver metropolitan area during a 13-month period. The estimated incidence was 0.7% of planned trials of labor. Complications of rupture included one neonatal death, two cases of severe neonatal asphyxia, three maternal bladder lacerations, and one hysterectomy. 
The influence of diazepam or lorazepam on the frequency of endotracheal intubation in childhood status epilepticus. Anticonvulsant management of status epilepticus (SE) may result in respiratory depression, often requiring endotracheal intubation (ETI). By examining rates of ETI in childhood SE after intravenous diazepam or lorazepam, when administered alone or in combination with phenytoin, the influence of anticonvulsants on the frequency of ETI during SE was determined. The medical records of 142 consecutive children younger than 16 years of age admitted from a university hospital ED with seizures during a 28-month period were retrospectively reviewed. SE was identified in 38 (27%) of cases. Records of children with SE were reviewed for demographic, seizure severity, and management variables. Twelve patients were excluded, ten of whom received concomitant phenobarbital. Patients receiving lorazepam had ETI rate of 27% (4/15), compared to 73% (8/11) in the diazepam group (P = 0.026, Fisher's exact). The groups were not significantly different in age, weight, sex, seizure type, seizure duration, and appropriate anticonvulsant dosage. A prospective, randomized trial comparing lorazepam and diazepam is warranted to confirm the apparent advantage of lorazepam in reducing respiratory depression. 
Opercular cheiro-oral syndrome. Perioral and distal upper limb sensory dysfunction (cheiro-oral syndrome) has classically been attributed to cortical involvement. In previously reported cases of the syndrome, caused by stroke, however, the thalamus or brain stem has been the actual site of the lesion. We have studied two patients with infarct in the superficial middle cerebral artery territory involving the parietal operculum. Sensory involvement was purely subjective in the face, but severe hypoesthesia was present in the distal upper limb, involving mainly position sense, stereognosis, and graphesthesia. Temperature and pain sensation were involved in one patient. These findings correlated with involvement of the lower part of the postcentral gyrus, more caudal parts of the parietal operculum, and underlying white matter. This opercular cheiro-oral syndrome seems more uncommon than faciobrachiocrural hemihypesthesia associated with anterior parietal artery territory infarct. A double supply to the parietal opercular region through branches of the temporal arteries and anterior parietal artery may explain the rarity of cheiro-oral syndrome resulting from hemisphere stroke, because simultaneous and partial compromise to two different pial artery networks is uncommon. 
Prevalence of simple adnexal cysts in postmenopausal women. This prospective study was performed with ultrasound (US) to determine the prevalence of unilocular, nonseptated adnexal cysts ("simple cysts") in healthy postmenopausal women and the relationship between cyst occurrence and both hormone replacement and length of time since onset of menopause. Transabdominal and transvaginal US were performed on 149 volunteers aged 50 years or older. Patients were classified according to hormone regimens (no hormones, unopposed estrogen, continuous daily estrogen and progesterone, and sequential estrogen and progesterone) and time since onset of menopause (less than 5 years, 5-10 years, and greater than 10 years). Simple adnexal cysts were found in 22 women with the aid of transvaginal and/or transabdominal US, yielding a relative frequency of 14.8% +/- 5.7% and a prevalence of 14,800 patients with cysts per 100,000 patients. No statistical relationship was found between cyst frequency and type of hormone replacement or length of time since onset of menopause. 
Rare presentation of a parapharyngeal schwannoma. Schwannoma, or neurilemmoma, is included in the differential diagnosis of masses in the parapharyngeal space. Schwannomata do not usually cause acute inflammation, and therefore do not tend to present as emergencies as in this case, in which there was acute respiratory embarrassment. 
Ventricular fibrillation complicating endomyocardial biopsy of a cardiac allograft. Transvenous endomyocardial biopsy remains the most useful diagnostic aid in assessing rejection in the transplanted heart. Although invasive, the complications associated with endomyocardial biopsy are few, and the procedure is generally regarded as safe. We report a case of apparent ventricular fibrillation complicating transvenous endomyocardial biopsy. Histologic section revealed evidence of moderate acute rejection. This case represents the first report of a life threatening ventricular dysrhythmia following routine endomyocardial biopsy in a cardiac transplant recipient. 
Fetal choroid plexus cysts in the second trimester of pregnancy: a cause for concern. Controversy surrounds the issue of recommending cytogenetic studies in second-trimester fetuses with fetal choroid plexus cysts. To assist in clarifying this issue, a prospective study was designed to describe the association between fetal choroid plexus cysts and aneuploidy in a large population. During a 3-year period 7350 women at 15 to 22 weeks' gestation underwent an ultrasonographic evaluation. Fetal choroid plexus cysts were diagnosed in 71 (0.96%) of these pregnancies. Sixty-two of the 71 patients elected to undergo amniocentesis. An abnormal karyotype was identified in four (6.4%) of these fetuses. One fetus had trisomy 21, and three fetuses were diagnosed with trisomy 18. These data indicate that it is reasonable to offer genetic counseling and cytogenetic studies in those patients identified as having a fetal choroid plexus cyst. 
Head-up tilt for the evaluation of syncope of unknown origin in children. Fifteen patients aged 10 to 18 years with syncope of unknown origin, and 10 healthy control children aged 11 to 18 years, were evaluated by head-up tilt to 60 degrees for 60 minutes. Six patients (43%) reproduced symptoms of syncope during the examination. Four had a typical vasovagal reaction; two had marked hyperventilation. None of the children in the control group had syncope. The head-up tilt test offers a simple, noninvasive, high-yielding diagnostic tool for evaluation of syncope in children. 
Endoscopic therapy for gastric cancer in patients more than 80 years old. We prospectively studied 17 gastric cancer patients who were more than 80 yr old, in whom endoscopic therapy was performed. The patients were divided into two groups: the first group included 13 patients in whom curative treatment was attempted, and in 11 (85%) a curative response was achieved. Two patients in this group showed a positive gastric biopsy after 1 and 2 yr, respectively, of therapy: one patient is under current treatment with laser therapy, and the other patient underwent surgery with resection of the stomach. The second group included four patients in whom treatment was aimed at prolonging survival or palliation, and in all four patients, a successful response was obtained. Therefore, our results demonstrate that endoscopic therapy is effective for the treatment of gastric cancer patients over 80 yr old. 
Expression and amplification of the HER-2/neu (c-erbB-2) protooncogene in epithelial ovarian tumors and cell lines. Amplification of the c-erbB-2 protooncogene has been associated with a poor prognosis in human breast and ovarian cancers. Our study was undertaken to examine whether amplification, rearrangement, or overexpression of c-erbB-2 and other protooncogenes was frequently observed in epithelial ovarian cancers. c-erbB-2 was expressed in 87% of 22 ovarian cancers analyzed, but expression was significantly increased in only one of the 22 tumor specimens. In this case elevated c-erbB-2 expression was associated with dramatic amplification of the gene. In another tumor a 3.8 kb EcoRI fragment was found, in addition to the usual 4.4 and 6.0 kb fragments; this is consistent with a possible gene rearrangement or a restriction fragment length polymorphism. To place these results in perspective, expression of several other protooncogenes has been examined in ovarian carcinomas. The c-fos, c-myc, n-myc, c-fms, and c-Ha-ras protooncogenes were expressed in different fractions of tumors, but expression of l-myc, c-erbB, c-myb, c-sis, and c-mos was not detectable. Aside from c-erbB-2, neither amplification nor rearrangement was observed among the other protooncogenes studied. Expression of c-erbB-2, c-fms, c-myc, n-myc, c-fos, and c-Ha-ras deserves further evaluation as a prognostic factor in ovarian cancer. 
Serum pepsinogen I concentrations in peptic ulcer patients in relation to ulcer location and stage. To investigate the relation of the serum group I pepsinogen (PG I) concentration to the location of gastric ulcers and chronicity of peptic ulcers, ulcer patients (n = 322) were compared with endoscopically normal subjects (n = 174). The mean PG I concentration was significantly higher in male control subjects (n = 90) than in female control subjects (n = 84). In male patients with ulcers in the duodenum (n = 69), antrum (n = 34), or angulus portion (the lower third of the body; n = 83), the mean serum PG I concentration was significantly higher than in the control subjects but in patients with an ulcer in the upper body (n = 49) it was similar to control values. Men with active or healing ulcers (n = 149) showed a significantly higher serum PG I concentration than those with scarred lesions (n = 86) when the abnormality was located in either the upper body or in the angulus portion. For female patients (n = 87), the results were similar. These results suggest that serum PG I concentrations reflect the stages of activity of peptic ulcer. 
Abnormal perception of visceral pain in response to gastric distension in chronic idiopathic dyspepsia. The irritable stomach syndrome. Sensory and pressure responses to gastric distension were evaluated in 24 consecutive patients suffering from chronic idiopathic dyspepsia and 20 healthy subjects. A latex balloon was placed in the proximal stomach and inflated by increments of 100 ml of air up to a maximal volume of 800 ml. Symptom response and intragastric pressure-volume curve were recorded during the gradual balloon distension. Thirteen of the 24 patients experienced pain at a distension volume less than or equal to 400 ml of air, but only one of the 20 controls (P less than 0.001). Intragastric pressure-volume curves were similar in patients and controls, and in patients with and without abnormal pain threshold, suggesting that a compliance defect was not the cause of the sensory anomaly. Gastric emptying of solids and liquids was measured in 20 of the 24 patients using a dual isotopic technique; psychological status was also evaluated in 18 patients using the Mini-Mult test. The frequency of the sensory anomaly was not different in patients with (7/14) or without (4/6) gastric stasis, but was lower in patients with (5/13) than in those without psychological disturbances (5/5, P less than 0.01). Thus, a primary visceral sensory anomaly, either alone or in conjunction with motility disturbances, can play an important role in chronic idiopathic dyspepsia and must be taken in account for further therapeutic research. 
Association of nm23-H1 allelic deletions with distant metastases in colorectal carcinoma. A prospective study analysed the prognostic value of nm23-H1 allelic deletions in colorectal cancer. Of 21 patients with no evidence of distant metastases at initial operation, 11 showed nm23-H1 allelic deletions (including 1 homozygous deletion); 10 had no nm23-H1 deletions. After median follow-up of 25 months, distant metastases had developed in 8 of 11 (73%) patients with nm23-H1 deletions but in only 2 of 10 (20%) without nm23-H1 deletions (p less than 0.03). Tests with probe YNZ 22.1, near p53, showed no significant association with distant metastases. nm23-H1 may be, or may be located near, a late-acting suppressor gene in colorectal carcinoma, in which deletions may have prognostic value. 
Blood and liver-infiltrating lymphocytes in primary biliary cirrhosis: increase in activated T and natural killer cells and recruitment of primed memory T cells. We used two-color and three-color flow cytometric analysis to study phenotypical activation and functional subsets of T and natural killer cells in the blood and liver tissue of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, other chronic liver diseases and the blood of healthy subjects. The changes in blood lymphocyte phenotype in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases were similar and comprised elevated relative or absolute numbers of activated human leukocyte antigen-DR + T subset (CD4+ and CD8+) cells and DR+ natural killer-like (CD16+) cells. B cell (CD19+) numbers were normal. In primary biliary cirrhosis a selective reduction in T cells of suppressor-inducer (CD45RA + CD4 + ) type was registered. The human leukocyte antigen-DR expression among CD4+ T cell subsets was investigated further in primary biliary cirrhosis and healthy controls using triple antibody flow cytometric analysis. Phenotypical cell activation was confined to helper T cells of the primed, memory (CD45RO + CD4+) type. The decrease in suppressor-inducer T cells in primary biliary cirrhosis was paralleled by a reciprocal increase in primed memory T cells. Several significant differences were observed when blood and liver-infiltrating cells from primary biliary cirrhosis patients were compared. In the liver tissue, the CD4/CD8 ratio was decreased, the relative activation of T-subset cells and NK cells was further increased, the suppressor-inducer T subset was further depressed and the primed memory T subset was increased. The cytotoxic T-cell subset (CD11b-) dominated within the CD8+ population. In liver tissue from other chronic liver disease subjects, a lower CD4/CD8 ratio was found compared with primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Familial amyloid polyneuropathy: alanine-for-threonine substitution in the transthyretin (prealbumin) molecule. A previously reported family with amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) was reinvestigated to determine the type of mutation in the transthyretin (prealbumin) molecule. Transthyretin was isolated from amyloid-laden myocardium and serum, and tryptic peptides were resolved by high-performance liquid chromatography. Amino acid sequencing of an anomalous peptide revealed an alanine-for-threonine substitution corresponding to position No. 60 of the transthyretin monomer. Detection of the FAP gene in asymptomatic carriers was accomplished by hybrid isoelectric focusing of transthyretin in the presence of dithiothreitol and high concentrations of urea, and by Southern blotting of Pvull-digested leukocyte deoxyribonucleic acid. This type of FAP was found to be identical to the previously described Appalachian amyloid. Patients with FAP and their asymptomatic gene-carrying offspring had significantly reduced levels of serum transthyretin and retinol-binding protein. 
MRI of the facial nerve during paralysis. Gadolinium-enhanced MRI was used to evaluate 10 patients with Bell's palsy and one patient with facial paralysis secondary to Lyme disease. Nine of the eleven patients showed increased signal intensity of their facial nerve with gadolinium-enhanced MRI. In all nine patients, the facial nerve was involved at the labyrinthine, geniculate ganglion and proximal tympanic portions of the facial nerve, while two of the nine patients also had involvement of the mastoid segment of the facial nerve. Patients whose facial nerve enhancement was limited to the labyrinthine, geniculate ganglion and proximal tympanic facial nerve ultimately had complete return of facial function. Patients whose facial nerve enhanced in the mastoid segment experienced incomplete return of facial function. Gadolinium is effective in localizing the site of inflammation during facial paralysis. Those patients with enhancement localized to the labyrinthine, geniculate ganglion and proximal tympanic segments were more likely to regain complete facial function. In contrast, patients who had enhancement of the mastoid segment of the facial nerve had poorer prognoses for complete return of facial function. 
Necrotizing fasciitis: 10 years' experience in a district general hospital. Of 14 patients with necrotizing fasciitis who presented between 1979 and 1988, six (43 per cent) died. The deaths were associated with delays in diagnosis, poor surgical technique and diabetes. Prompt diagnosis, resuscitation and early radical surgery are essential to the successful management of necrotizing fasciitis. 
Primary intracerebral osteosarcoma. A 64-year-old man was admitted because of a rapidly progressive left side hemiparesis. A computed tomography scan showed a right side intrathalamic mass, partially calcified. Surgical specimen proved to be an osteosarcoma. The patient died 3 days later from an acute myocardial infarct. Autopsy failed to discover any other significant lesion. A review of the literature disclosed that this case might be the second published primary intracerebral osteosarcoma and the first with immunocytochemical analysis. 
Morphological changes of hepatic microcirculation in experimental rat cirrhosis: a scanning electron microscopic study. Morphological changes of hepatic microcirculation, especially peribiliary plexus, in experimental rat cirrhosis that resulted from the repeated intraperitoneal injections of N-diethylnitrosamine, 100 mg/kg body weight/one shot/week, were examined by scanning electron microscope. Control rats were treated with saline. Whole blood vessels of the rats were perfused by saline and stuffed with methylmethacrylated resin. Multiple nodular changes were seen in the livers after the five injections (5 wk) of N-diethylnitrosamine, and diffuse nodular transformations mimicking human cirrhosis after six injections (6 wk) were also seen. Overall changes in experimental rats were numerous vascular channels mainly composed of venous branches around the parenchymal nodules, increased arterioportal anastomoses and flattening of veins, especially hepatic vein branches. Peribiliary plexuses of the experimental rats were much richer in the vessels than those of the controls, and many dilated veins, ramified from portal vein branches, were present in the former. Direct connections between peribiliary plexuses and sinusoids or between peribiliary plexuses and portal veins increased in the experimental rats. Studies concerning microcirculatory changes of peribiliary plexuses in experimental rat cirrhosis are rare. It was concluded that the abnormal peribiliary plexuses in this experimental series might participate in a collateral circulation under a state of portal hypertension. 
Prognostic value of lymphocyte surface markers in acute myeloid leukemia. We studied the expression of cell surface antigens associated with myeloid and lymphoid leukemias on bone marrow-derived blast cells from 339 patients with newly diagnosed de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) enrolled on Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) chemotherapy protocols. Surprisingly, of 211 cases studied for the expression of CD2 (T-cell marker, sheep erythrocyte binding receptor for T lymphocytes) 45 were positive (21%). In addition, of 298 patients studied for CD19 (B-lymphocyte marker), 41 were positive (14%). Overall, of 170 patients studied for both CD2 and CD19, 56 (33%) were positive. Interestingly, central review of the French-American-British (FAB) morphology of the CD2- and CD19-positive cases showed that FAB M3 was twice as frequent, and M4E eight times as frequent compared with the CD2- and CD19-negative cases. Of 22 lymphocyte antigen-positive cases in which cells were available for studies of Ig or T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement, 20 were germline, one had a rearranged Ig heavy chain gene, and one had rearranged TCR beta and Ig heavy chain genes. The presence of messenger RNA for CD2 was demonstrated in four CD2 surface antigen-positive cases, thus validating the cell surface data. Lymphocyte antigen-positive cases had karyotypes commonly seen in AML; 71% of cases with an abnormal clone had t(8;21)(q22;q22), inversion 16(p13q22), t(15;17)(q22;q12), or t(9;11)(p22;q23). The patients with lymphocyte markers had a significantly higher incidence of these karyotypic abnormalities compared with patients with lymphocyte antigen-negative AML (34% v 15%, P less than .02). When the outcome to therapy of the lymphocyte antigen-positive cases was compared with that for the CD2, CD19-negative cases, we found that the CD2, CD19-positive cases actually had higher complete remission rates (75% v 59%, P = .04), and significantly longer time to failure (P = .02; 32.4% +/- 6.0% v 18.0% +/- 4.1% at 2 years) and overall survival (P = .02; 43.5% +/- 6.3% v 26.0% +/- 4.5% at 2 years). CD2 antigen-positive cases also had a significantly superior survival (P = .02; 43.8% +/- 7.9% v 29.8% +/- 3.8% at 2 years). There were no significant differences (P less than or equal to .05) between the two groups in age, leukocyte count at diagnosis, incidence of extramedullary disease, or FAB classification.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Bleeding peptic ulcer after abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. A retrospective study of 112 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and 232 with arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO) demonstrated that 16.7% of those with AAA and 1.6% of those with ASO had a history of gastroduodenal ulcer; 83% of these lesions with AAA were gastric ulcers. Ulcer bleeding after vascular reconstruction developed in seven patients with AAA and one with ASO. Serum fibrinogen levels and platelet counts were significantly lower in patients with AAA than in those with ASO or controls. A prospective study showed that 25 (52.1%) of 48 patients with AAA and six (20.0%) of 30 patients with ASO had endoscopically proved gastroduodenal lesions before vascular reconstruction. None of them developed postoperative bleeding after treatment of both their gastroduodenal lesions and coagulopathy. Furthermore, the significant decrease in blood flow and prostaglandin content of gastric mucosa was demonstrated in patients with AAA. 
Severity of obstructive sleep apnea. A four-level severity scale for obstructive sleep apnea is offered using four criteria: maximum oxygen desaturation, apnea/hyponea index, symptoms of excessive day-time sleepiness, and symptoms of related cardiac disease. Oxygen desaturation and the apnea/hyponea index for 175 patients, all having had uvulopalatopharyngoplasty surgery, showed 19% mild, 33% moderate, 17% moderately severe, and 31% severe obstructive sleep apnea. There was a very poor correlation between oxygen desaturations and number of obstructive events, which demands that both be used in any estimation of disease severity. 
Bilateral symmetrical striopallidodentate calcification associated with pseudohypoparathyroidism demonstrated in a patient with cerebellar astrocytoma. A case of calcification in the striopallidodentate system associated with pseudohypoparathyroidism, clinically manifested after operation for a cystic astrocytoma of the cerebellar vermis, is reported. Bilateral symmetrical striopallidodentate calcification accompanying a disturbance in calcium metabolism is rare. Only a few cases have been described previously in the literature, of which only six were accompanied by pseudohypoparathyroidism. The importance of identifying hypoparathyroidism, especially pseudohypoparathyroidism, early in the course of investigation is discussed. 
Washed human platelets prevent ischemia-reperfusion edema in isolated rabbit lungs. Washed human platelets prevent edema formation in isolated rabbit lungs infused with xanthine oxidase, an enzyme that injures endothelial membranes by generating extracellular oxidants. We hypothesized that platelets would similarly preserve membrane permeability in isolated lungs exposed to ischemia-reperfusion injury, a model that perturbs endothelial cells by the generation of intracellular oxidants. Isolated perfused rabbit lungs (IPL) were exposed to warm ischemia-reperfusion to cause lung edema. The infusion of washed human platelets (1.05 +/- 0.02 x 10(10) cells) prevented edema formation as measured by lung weight gain, wet-to-dry lung weight ratios, histological edema, and preservation of paraendothelial cell tight junctions. Inhibition of the platelet glutathione redox cycle with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, dehydroepiandrosterone, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene interfered with platelet protective effects. In contrast, inhibition of platelet catalase with aminotriazole and H2O2 had no effect on platelet protection. Lung tissue malonyldialdehyde concentrations were similar in isolated lungs exposed to ischemia-reperfusion with or without the infusion of platelets. These results indicate that platelet attenuation of ischemia-reperfusion lung edema depends on platelet glutathione redox cycle antioxidants but not platelet catalase. 
Hypermetabolism in arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. Two patients who developed hypermetabolic reactions during anaesthesia and surgery and who were suffering from arthrogryposis multiplex congenita are reported and it is proposed that the reaction is distinct from malignant hyperthermia and independent of the anaesthetic agents used. The implications for anaesthetists involved in the management of patients with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita are discussed. 
Nonaspiration fine-needle cytology of the liver: a new technique for obtaining diagnostic samples. We studied a new method of obtaining diagnostic cytology samples from the liver that differs from fine-needle aspiration cytology in that no suction is used to obtain the sample. This method is simpler to perform than traditional aspiration biopsy and yields concentrated cell smears that are easier to interpret. The sample enters the needle because of capillary action, a physical property of fluid that causes it to flow into the lumen of a narrow channel. This nonaspiration technique was used in 40 consecutive patients undergoing fine-needle biopsy of mass lesions of the liver. A 22-gauge spinal needle was used in all procedures. The cytology smears obtained were prepared, stained, and interpreted by the same methods used for conventional fine-needle cytology specimens. Specific diagnoses were rendered in 36 patients (90%) and in 32 (94%) of those patients with malignant tumors. An average of 1.7 needle passes (range, 1-4) was needed per patient. We conclude that the results from nonaspiration fine-needle cytology of the liver are as good as those from conventional aspiration technique, and the nonaspiration technique is easier to perform and results in smears that are easier to interpret. 
Public Health Service inter-agency guidelines for screening donors of blood, plasma, organs, tissues, and semen for evidence of hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Several infectious agents transmit through infected blood and blood products. To decrease the potential for disease transmission, donors are screened for risk factors by medical history and for evidence of infection by specific testing. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) currently requires that all donations of whole blood and transfusable components as well as plasma for fractionation into injectable derivatives be subjected to a serologic test for syphilis, hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), and antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus (anti-HIV). The FDA also currently recommends testing donations of whole blood and components for transfusion for antibody to human T lymphotropic virus type I (anti-HTLV-I) and antibody to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV), and is considering recommending testing for antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc). Blood banks in the United States voluntarily began testing donations for anti-HBc and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in 1986 and 1987 and for anti-HCV in 1990. 
Pharmacokinetics, neuromuscular effects, and biodisposition of 3-desacetylvecuronium (Org 7268) in cats. The pharmacokinetics, biodisposition, and neuromuscular blocking properties of 3-desacetylvecuronium were studied in 17 adult cats. Animals were divided into three groups: five cats with kidney failure induced by bilateral ligation of the renal pedicles, six cats with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatitis, and six control cats. An intravenous bolus of 300 micrograms.kg-1 of 3-desacetylvecuronium was rapidly injected into the jugular vein. Arterial blood, urine, and bile samples were collected at regular intervals for 6 h in control cats and for 8 h in cats with kidney or liver failure. The liver was excised for analysis at the end of the experiment. In cats with renal failure, 3-desacetylvecuronium pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic variables did not differ from those in control cats. In cats with liver failure, plasma clearance was significantly less and mean residence time greater than in control cats (2.8 +/- 0.6 vs. 14.1 +/- 6.5 ml.kg-1.min-1 and 334 +/- 225 vs. 49 +/- 29 min, mean +/- SD, respectively). Volume of distribution at steady state in cats with liver failure and in control cats was not different. Also, in cats with liver failure, the duration of action and recovery index of 3-desacetylvecuronium was significantly greater than in control cats (168 +/- 62 vs. 82 +/- 32 min, and 39 +/- 19 vs. 10 +/- 4 min, respectively). Onset time of neuromuscular blockade was similar in all three groups. Total recovery of 3-desacetylvecuronium, for all three groups, in urine, bile, and liver was 90 +/- 11% (mean +/- SD). In control cats, 70 +/- 18% of 3-desacetylvecuronium was recovered in bile and liver and 19 +/- 14% in urine. No 3,17-bidesacetylvecuronium (a putative 3-desacetylvecuronium metabolite) was detected. 
Increased thrombin levels during thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Relevance for the success of therapy. BACKGROUND. It has been suggested that thrombolysis in a feedback reaction may generate pro-coagulant activities. METHODS AND RESULTS. Fifty-five patients were treated with urokinase-preactivated prourokinase (n = 35) or tissue-type plasminogen activator (n = 20) for acute myocardial infarction and underwent coronary angiography at 90 minutes and at 24-36 hours into thrombolysis, and fibrinogen (Ratnoff-Menzie), D-dimer (ELISA) and thrombin-antithrombin III complex levels (ELISA) were measured. Primary patency was achieved in 39 patients (70.9%), 13 of whom (33.3%) suffered early reocclusion. Nonsignificant decreases in fibrinogen levels were observed while D-dimer levels increased +3,008 +/- 4,047 micrograms/l (p less than 0.01), differences not being significant in respect to the thrombolytic agents or to the clinical course. In contrast, while thrombin-antithrombin III complex levels decreased -4.4 +/- 13.0 micrograms/l in patients with persistent patency, they increased +7.5 +/- 13.6 micrograms/l in case of nonsuccessful thrombolysis (p less than 0.02) and +11.9 +/- 23.8 micrograms/l in case of early reocclusion (p less than 0.001). For patients with thrombin-antithrombin III complex levels greater than 6 ng/l 120 minutes into thrombolysis, the unfavorable clinical course was predicted with 96.2% sensitivity and 93.1% specificity. CONCLUSION. Generation of thrombin, occurring during thrombolysis, is a major determinant for the success of therapy and thrombin-antithrombin III levels may serve as predictors for the short-term prognosis. 
Vulnerability of nerve fibres to ischaemia. A quantitative light and electron microscope study. In order to learn more about the vulnerability of nerve fibres to ischemia, a quantitative study of nerve fibre abnormalities was performed on biopsy specimens of the superficial branch of the peroneal nerve from 26 patients with vasculitic neuropathy: 20 had necrotizing arteritis, 5 a lymphocytic, and 1 a leucocytoclastic vasculitis on nerve and/or muscle biopsy. The density of myelinated fibres ranged from 25 to 7880 per mm2 (n = 8470 +/- 706 (SD]. There was a marked inequality in the density of nerve fibres between the fascicles of individual nerves with a mean coefficient of variation of 41 +/- 37 (SD) % versus 7.4 +/- 3.0% in controls. Loss of myelinated fibres, which was greater for fibres larger than 7 microns in diameter, was more severe than that for unmyelinated axons. Regeneration, which was assessed by the number of clustered axons, decreased when the density of myelinated fibres decreased, suggesting that severe nerve ischaemia precludes axonal regeneration. Wallerian degeneration affected on average 58% (range 5-100%) and segmental demyelination, mainly of the secondary type, on average 1.94% (range 1-10%) of teased fibres. It was concluded that (1) myelinated fibres are more vulnerable to ischaemia than unmyelinated axons; (2) large myelinated fibres are affected before the smaller ones; (3) segmental demyelination is uncommon in this context; (4) severe nerve ischaemia precludes axonal regeneration. 
Five-year results of the first 159 consecutive phakic chronic open-angle glaucomas treated by argon laser trabeculoplasty. 159 phakic eyes with chronic open-angle glaucoma were treated by argon laser trabeculoplasty and followed for 5 years. According to our criteria of failure, 31 eyes were failures at 1 year (19%), 47 eyes at 2 years (30%), 66 eyes at 3 years (41%), 77 eyes at 4 years (48%) and 82 eyes at 5 years (52%). In the 77 eyes still controlled at 5 years, the intraocular pressure drop was 6.57 mm Hg and the initial medical treatment could be tapered or stopped in only 33 of the cases (43%). In the 82 failures, there was a greater percentage requiring surgery for pressure control during the first year after laser treatment: 16 trabeculectomies in 31 failures (52%). The initial mean intraocular pressures of 7 failures needing surgery during the first 2 months (27.22 mm Hg) and of the 27 failures needing surgery during the 5 year follow-up (24.41 mm Hg) were higher than the initial mean intraocular pressure of the 77 successful cases (22.67 mm Hg). In the 159 eyes followed for 5 years, 19% (31 eyes) to 6% (5 eyes) new failure cases per year were encountered and the initial good results obtained by argon laser trabeculoplasty persisted for about 5 years in half of the cases. 
Long-term response of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis to treatment with lymphoblastoid interferon alfa-N1. Papilloma Study Group. BACKGROUND. We earlier reported that patients with recurrent respiratory papillomatosis responded to six months of treatment with lymphoblastoid interferon alfa-n1. Because another study of patients treated for one year with leukocyte interferon alfa-n3 found that the growth rate of papillomas was slowed in the first six months but returned to base line during months 7 through 12 despite persistent interferon treatment, we now report the long-term results in our original study patients who were followed for a median of four years after the original one-year crossover study. METHODS. After the patients in our study had completed the first study year, their physicians could continue or recommence treatment with lymphoblastoid interferon alfa-n1 in a dose of either 2 MU per square meter of body-surface area per day or 4 MU per square meter every other day. The extent of disease was measured by endoscopy when clinically indicated. RESULTS. Data on late-follow-up were obtained for 60 of the 66 patients. There were 22 complete remissions and 25 partial remissions; 13 patients had no response. The median duration of the complete remissions was 550 days, and 15 patients continued to be in complete remission. The median duration of partial remissions was 400 days and seven patients were still in partial remission. Thirteen of 28 patients responded to a second course of interferon after an interruption in treatment of at least one month. The rate of response in the 11 of 53 patients who had neutralizing antibody to interferon was the same as in the patients without the antibody. CONCLUSIONS. Patients with severe recurrent respiratory papillomatosis may have a sustained or repeated response to treatment with lymphoblastoid interferon alfa-n1. We recommend that patients with recurrent respiratory papillomatosis who require surgery every two to three months be given a six-month trial of interferon alfa-n1. 
Left anterior fascicular block: an ischaemic response during treadmill testing. A patient in whom exercise induced reversible ischaemic left anterior fascicular block is reported. Glyceryl trinitrate relieved the fascicular block. Coronary angiography showed a 90% obstruction of the left anterior descending artery. The left anterior fascicular block induced by exercise disappeared after a successful coronary angioplasty. 
Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma. Ultrastructural, immunohistochemical, and DNA cytofluorometric study of a case. A case of right frontal pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma that occurred in a 7-year-old boy is reported clinicopathologically. The patient underwent surgery on September 29, 1988. Histologic diagnosis of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma was made because, in addition to the unique pleomorphic histologic features, positive glial fibrillary acidic protein in immunohistochemical staining and characteristic ultrastructural features, i.e., cytoplasmic intermediate fibrils and lipid vacuoles, basal lamina, and abundant reticulin networks were demonstrated. The DNA cytofluorometric analysis of the nuclei of the tumor cells disclosed the main mode to be diploid with polyploid classes (4, 8, 16, and 32C) without any aneuploidy. Despite the presence of many pleomorphic nuclei, DNA histogram of the tumor disclosed very few DNA synthetic cells indicating a biologically inactive nature of the tumor. The patient is still alive and totally asymptomatic 20 months postoperatively. 
Osteomyelitis in children with sickle cell disease: early diagnosis with contrast-enhanced CT. Two children with sickle cell disease and osteomyelitis were treated. In one child, definitive treatment was delayed until computed tomography (CT) revealed a subperiosteal abscess. Early performance of CT in the other child resulted in prompt diagnosis and treatment. Before the appearance of the characteristic plain radiographic findings, diagnosis of osteomyelitis in patients with sickle cell disease can be difficult because the clinical manifestations of infarction and osteomyelitis can be similar. Radionuclide scans have yielded mixed results. In equivocal cases, early performance of CT can help establish the diagnosis of osteomyelitis to avoid significant morbidity. 
Cyclosporin A modulates the course of woodchuck hepatitis virus infection and induces chronicity. Immunosuppression is known to influence the state of chronic hepatitis B virus infection, and is thought to increase the risk of developing chronic infection in newly exposed individuals. Cyclosporin A (CsA), an immunosuppressive agent that inhibits Th cell function, was administered to woodchucks chronically infected with woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV), and resulted in a decreased severity of chronic hepatitis and an increased viremia during the treatment. Adult woodchucks inoculated with WHV and given CsA for 14 wk had increased viremias, decreased acute phase liver injury, and developed chronic infections at a higher rate compared with immunocompetent woodchucks given virus alone (chronicity in seven of seven WHV + CsA + vs zero of nine WHV + CsA-; p less than 0.001). These results in a relevant animal model of hepatitis B virus infection indicate: 1) that liver injury in acute hepadnavirus infections is immune-mediated and not a direct cytopathic effect of virus replication; 2) that Th cells function in the inflammatory response and in the immunologic control of hepadnavirus infection; and 3) that suppression of Th cell function in acute hepadnavirus infection decreases liver injury but alters the outcome of infection in favor of chronicity. These results also suggest continued challenges in the application of CsA in liver transplantation for hepatitis B virus-induced diseases. 
Occurrence of resting tremor in Parkinson's disease. Several previous studies have noted that resting tremor (RT) is absent in 10% to 30% of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients. We report our 22-year observations in 47 pathologically verified parkinsonian patients. In all the IPD cases with median follow-up of 3.7 years, RT was noted on at least one evaluation. Among other parkinsonian syndrome variants characterized by widespread subcortical pathology with median follow-up of 2.86 years, RT was seen in 31% of the cases. Our data indicate that the sites typically involved in IPD are sufficient to produce RT. 
The spectrum of molecular alterations in the evolution of chronic myelocytic leukemia. DNA from 135 patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) at various clinical stages and Philadelphia (Ph1) chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia was investigated for alterations in a variety of proto-oncogenes which have been implicated in the evolution of CML from its chronic phase to blast crisis. The most common genetic change found in the evolution of typical Ph1 chromosome positive CML to blast crisis was an alteration of the p53 gene involving either a rearrangement, a deletion, or a point mutation in the coding sequence of the gene. Alterations of the p53 gene were found in the myeloid and the rare megakaryocytic variant of blast crisis but were absent in the lymphoid leukemic transformants. Gross structural alterations were seen in 11 of 54 (20%) of myeloid or unknown phenotypes of blast crisis and in only 1 of 44 chronic phase cases. Eight examples of mutations in the open reading frame of the p53 gene at codons 49, 53, 60, 140, 202, 204, 238, and 239 were observed in blast crisis patients. Mutations in the N-RAS gene were rare in typical blast crisis (2 of 27 cases) but were found in megakaryocytic and Ph1 negative myeloid blast crisis. We concluded that heterogeneous alterations in the p53 gene and occasionally in the N-RAS genes accompany the evolution of chronic phase CML to blast crisis. 
Effect of peripheral cardiopulmonary bypass on left ventricular size, afterload and myocardial function during elective supported coronary angioplasty. Although cardiopulmonary bypass support has been increasingly used for high risk coronary angioplasty, few data exist regarding its effects on left ventricular function. Accordingly, in 20 patients changes in left ventricular size, afterload and myocardial function were assessed by continuous hemodynamic monitoring and simultaneous two-dimensional echocardiography during cardiopulmonary bypass-supported high risk angioplasty. The cross-sectional left ventricular area during bypass support remained unchanged during diastole, whereas during systole it decreased (from 29.6 +/- 11.4 to 27.6 +/- 10.4 cm2, p less than 0.05). Global left ventricular function expressed as fractional area change remained unchanged from baseline to bypass support but decreased during balloon inflation (from 0.27 +/- 0.11 to 0.17 +/- 0.09, p less than 0.001). The end-systolic meridional wall stress decreased during bypass support (from 141 +/- 75 to 110 +/- 58 x 10(3) dynes/cm2, p less than 0.02). Regional myocardial function was assessed by a wall motion score (0 = normal, 1 = hypokinesia, 2 = akinesia and 3 = dyskinesia). Regions supplied by a stenotic (greater than or equal to 50% diameter) vessel deteriorated during bypass support (score from 0.9 +/- 0.8 to 1.06 +/- 0.8, p less than 0.01), whereas regions supplied by a nonstenotic vessel did not. Regions supplied by the target vessel deteriorated further during balloon inflation (score from 0.7 +/- 0.6 to 1.7 +/- 0.75, p less than 0.001). Thus, although left ventricular size and global function remain unchanged and afterload decreases during bypass support, myocardial dysfunction in regions supplied by a stenotic vessel may occur. Furthermore, regional and global left ventricular dysfunction still occur with angioplasty balloon inflation during cardiopulmonary bypass support. 
Clinical evaluation of circulating serum sialyl Tn antigen levels in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. Sialyl Tn antigen (NeuAc alpha 2----6GalNac alpha 1----0-Ser/Thr [STN]) with antigenic specificity in the core structure of mucin-type carbohydrate chains has been determined. In the present study, we evaluated the clinical significance of this new carbohydrate antigen, STN, in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. With the use of a radioimmunoassay developed to detect STN antigen in serum, elevated (greater than or equal to 32.6 U/mL) antigen levels were observed in 50.0% of patients with ovarian cancer. In contrast, 3.8% of healthy individuals had STN antigen levels greater than or equal to 32.6 U/mL. In 9.6% of patients with benign gynecologic diseases and 0% of pregnant women, there were elevated levels of STN antigen. There was a significant difference (P less than .001) in STN antigen levels between patients with ovarian cancer and patients with benign gynecologic diseases, pregnant women, or the controls. The mean +/- SD for all evaluated samples of ovarian cancer was 109.2 +/- 146.8 U/mL. Both the mean values and the positive rate increased as the stage advanced. Classified according to the histologic type, the highest positive rate (61.0%) was observed in mucinous adenocarcinoma. The usefulness of STN antigen as a circulating tumor marker in ovarian cancer was estimated as follows: sensitivity 50.0%, specificity 93.5%, positive predictive value 72.2%, negative predictive value 84.7%, and diagnostic value 46.8%. Serum STN antigen levels were elevated in 12 of 33 patients with ovarian cancer who had serum CA 125 antigen levels less than 35 U/mL. While CA 125 antigen levels were elevated in 74.6% and STN antigen levels were elevated in 50.0% of the same population, the use of both assays indicated the sensitivity of detection of 83.8% in the population studied. 
Acid peptic disease in adolescents. How to avoid misdiagnosis and undertreatment. Acid peptic disease in adolescents may be more common than previously recognized. However, appropriate medical attention is often delayed because of misdiagnosis and undertreatment. Thorough questioning of adolescent patients is important to elicit a complete description of symptoms. Endoscopy or intraluminal pH monitoring may be necessary to establish a diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease or peptic ulcer. Therapy with histamine receptor antagonists, especially ranitidine (Zantac), is recommended. Antireflux surgery may be needed to prevent potential long-term gastrointestinal damage. Patients with duodenal ulcer should also be advised to make life-style changes to avoid recurrence of disease later in life. 
In-flight esophageal variceal bleeding en route for liver transplantation: a case report and review of the literature. Esophageal variceal bleeding owing to portal hypertension is a potential threat in pediatric patients awaiting liver transplantation. We report a case of a three-year-old boy with severe congenital hepatic fibrosis, Caroli's disease, and portal hypertension who developed a life-threatening variceal hemorrhage for the first time in his life during commercial air transport to a liver transplantation center. Factors precipitating variceal bleeding are discussed, particularly those resulting from changes in altitude. It is recommended that prophylactic treatment for variceal bleeding be at least considered in children awaiting liver transplantation prior to prolonged air transportation. Because of differences in capabilities of treatment providers in various locales, and because there are as yet no conclusive data, the treatment of choice must be decided on an individual basis. Equipment for treating in-flight hemorrhage should be available. 
Increased calcium influx in caudal artery of rats made hypertensive with pyridoxine deficiency. Moderate pyridoxine deficiency in rats has been shown to induce hypertension, which can be corrected by pyridoxine supplementation. In this study, calcium handling by isolated caudal arteries from pyridoxine-deficient and age-matched control rats was evaluated. We found 45Ca influx into the intracellular compartment to be significantly elevated in deficient rats. This increased influx could be attenuated with nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting alterations in the calcium channels that would make them leaky. The pyridoxine-deficient arterial segments maintained a higher resting tone; removal of extracellular calcium by EGTA or entry blockade by nifedipine decreased the tone significantly in the deficient arteries, compared with little or no effect in controls. 
Quantitative testicular biopsy in spinal cord injured men: comparison to fertile controls. Spermatogenic abnormalities have been reported in the majority of spinal cord injured men on routine testicular biopsy. However, given the interim advances in their urological and rehabilitative care, a quantitative assessment of the germinal epithelium after spinal cord injury and comparison of these parameters to normal controls are warranted. Incisional testicular biopsy was performed in 14 spinal cord injured men. Quantitative micrometric techniques were applied to assess spermatogenesis and the results were compared to a normative data base of testicular biopsies previously obtained from a group of 15 fertile volunteers. From a minimum of 10 randomly selected round seminiferous tubules per subject the mean number of Sertoli cells, mature spermatids, tubular diameter and tubular wall thickness were determined in both groups and statistically analyzed. In the spinal cord injury group the mean number of spermatids per tubule was significantly lower and the mean number of Sertoli cells per tubule was significantly higher than in fertile controls (p less than 0.05). Moreover, the mean Sertoli cell-to-spermatid ratio per seminiferous tubule was significantly higher in the spinal cord injury group and discriminated between spinal cord injured men and controls, with a sensitivity of 93% and specificity of 100% (p less than 0.0001). Half of the spinal cord injury group showed a mean tubular spermatid density of less than 10. Compared to the fertile population, spinal cord injured men show significant differences in quantitative parameters of the germinal epithelium that may contribute to the reproductive dysfunction. 
Mesalamine in ulcerative colitis. Sulfasalazine has been used for many years in the management of ulcerative colitis. As many as 20 percent of patients treated with it experience intolerable adverse effects usually attributed to its sulfapyridine component. The other active component is 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA); the only 5-ASA enema preparation currently available in the U.S. is mesalamine (Rowasa, Reid-Rowell) containing 5-ASA 4 g in 60 mL. In clinical trials, mesalamine has proved efficacious in treating refractory cases of distal ulcerative colitis, proctitis, and proctosigmoiditis. Because of its high cost compared with more conventional treatment modalities, it should be reserved for cases that are either refractory or intolerant to conventional treatment. 
Intractable heart failure despite angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, digoxin, and diuretics: long-term effectiveness of add-on therapy with pimobendan. In 25 patients whose chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) had recently worsened to New York Heart Association class IV, pimobendan (5 to 20 mg/day) was added to maximum conventional therapy consisting of digoxin, diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, coumadin derivatives to prevent thromboembolic complications, and amiodarone to suppress serious ventricular rhythm disturbances. CHF was fatal in less than 1 month in five patients (two had shown some initial improvement). The other 20 had sustained improvement by at least one functional class, interrupted by episodes of CHF that usually responded to intravenous therapy. Median survival was 12 months (range 10 days to greater than 3 years); five patients died suddenly, 12 died of intractable CHF, and two died of other causes. Six patients were alive 3 years after the onset of treatment with pimobendan. Add-on therapy with pimobendan produced a sustained improvement in many patients with severe CHF that was no longer responding to a combination of digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. 
Anatomy of the tricuspid annulus. Circumferential myofibers as the structural basis for atrial flutter in a canine model. BACKGROUND. Little anatomic information is available on the annular myocardium. This study was conducted to determine the anatomic substrate for atrial flutter due to circus movement around the tricuspid annulus in the Y-shaped incision canine model of atrial flutter. METHODS AND RESULTS. We studied photographs of the annular myocardium serial histological sections, made in either of three different planes, and compared these with photographs of the intact and blocked gross heart specimens. We found that the annulus is the most caudal region of the atrial wall. The epicardial aspect of the annulus abuts the ventricular septum or the aortic root in the medial region; in other regions, it is covered by the fat of the coronary sulcus. Its endocardial aspect is delimited by the tricuspid leaflets inferiorly and by the pectinate muscle bundles superiorly, except in the medial region where the pectinate muscle bundles are absent. The annular myocardium is bilaminated. A continuous subepicardial circumferential lamina is the most prominent and is robust in the anterior, lateral, and posterior regions, but it attenuates to a fine muscular connection in the medial region. Myofibers of its superior border merge with the pectinate muscle bundles or are admixed in the medial region with myocardium at the base of the medial atrial wall. Its inferior border makes little contact with the annulus fibrosus about the ring; however, in the medial region, these myofibers insert into fibrous tissue superior to the septal leaflet. A discontinuous, subendocardial perpendicular lamina contains myofibers that descend from the atrium; most of these myofibers insert into the annulus fibrosus about the ring, but the lamina is absent in the anteromedial region. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that the continuous circumferential lamina provides the anatomic substrate for circus movement of excitation in this model. 
Correlation of circulating von Willebrand factor levels with cardiovascular hemodynamics. BACKGROUND. Valvular heart disease is associated with a decreased platelet circulating time and a thrombotic tendency. The possibility that these events are related to changes in von Willebrand factor (vWF), a multimeric glycoprotein released from endothelial cells and platelets that mediates platelet adhesion to the vascular subendothelium, has not been examined. METHODS AND RESULTS. We measured the vWF antigen (vWF:Ag) concentration in 43 patients undergoing cardiac catheterization for the evaluation of mitral (n = 17) or aortic (n = 10) stenosis or nonvalvular heart disease (n = 16). Mean vWF:Ag concentration was significantly higher in patients with mitral stenosis than in those without (212 +/- 84 versus 150 +/- 79 units/dl, p less than 0.02); this elevation was associated with a significant elevation of pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) in the patients with mitral stenosis (186 +/- 49 versus 133 +/- 81 dynes-sec-cm-5, p less than 0.02). The vWF:Ag levels in the entire group of patients (regardless of the presence or type of valvular disease) varied directly with PVR (r = 0.72, p less than 0.0001) and with pulmonary artery pressure (r = 0.60, p less than 0.0001) and inversely with cardiac output (r = 0.64, p less than 0.0001). Changes in PVR, pulmonary artery pressure, or cardiac output could not be correlated with circulating levels of fibrinogen or beta-thromboglobulin, which may be released from activated platelets, nor with the endothelial cell product tissue plasminogen activator. CONCLUSIONS. The association of high vWF:Ag levels with increased PVR and decreased cardiac output in patients both with and without mitral stenosis suggests a hemodynamically induced increase in the endothelial release of vWF, which might contribute to a thrombotic tendency in these patients. 
Fifteen-year results of ambulatory compression therapy for chronic venous ulcers. A nonoperative approach to venous stasis ulceration of the lower extremity, consisting of initial bedrest, ulcer cleansing, dressing changes, and ambulatory elastic compression stocking therapy, has been maintained for over 15 years. All patients had class III, severe chronic venous insufficiency. One hundred five of 113 patients (93%) experienced complete ulcer healing in a mean of 5.3 months. One hundred two patients were compliant with elastic compression stockings, and 11 patients were noncompliant. Complete ulcer healing occurred in 99 of 102 patients (97%) who were compliant versus six of 11 patients (55%) who were noncompliant (p less than 0.0001). The influence of noncompliance, previous venous ulceration, previous venous surgery, previous known deep venous thrombosis, peripheral arterial insufficiency (ankle brachial systolic blood pressure index less than or equal to 0.60), pretreatment ulcer duration, ulcer size, age, sex, diabetes, smoking, and photoplethysmography venous refill time on ulcer healing was determined by logistic regression analysis. Only noncompliance with elastic compression stockings (p less than 0.0001) and a pretreatment ulcer duration of more than 9 months (p = 0.02) significantly decreased initial ulcer healing. Posthealing follow-up was available in 73 patients for a mean of 30 months. Fifty-eight patients (79%) continued to be compliant with stockings; 15 patients were noncompliant. Total ulcer recurrence in patients who were compliant was 16%. Five-year lifetable recurrence was 29%. All patients who were noncompliant had recurrent ulceration by 36 months. Previous ulceration, previous venous surgery, and peripheral arterial insufficiency had no effect on ulcer recurrence (p greater than 0.05). 
Endothelial dysfunction and subendothelial monocyte macrophages in hypertension. Effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. Hypertension is associated with an impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxation. The angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors captopril and cilazapril can prevent this endothelial dysfunction. We recently observed that long-term treatment with cilazapril could also prevent subendothelial infiltration by mononuclear cells in spontaneously hypertensive rats. This prompted us to examine whether, in spontaneously hypertensive rats, endothelial dysfunction and subendothelial infiltration by mononuclear cells are associated. These cells were characterized as monocyte macrophages. Infiltration by monocyte macrophages was quantified by morphometry. Endothelial function was estimated by calculating serotonin ratio (maximal contraction to serotonin on isolated arterial rings with endothelium over maximal contraction on paired rings without endothelium). The regional distribution of endothelial dysfunction and subendothelial monocyte macrophages was similar. Both were maximal in the carotid artery, less in the aorta, and nonexistent in the renal artery. A 2-week treatment with cilazapril decreased both endothelial dysfunction (serotonin ratio decreased by 32%) and the number of subendothelial monocyte macrophages in the aorta, which decreased by 38%. We conclude that in spontaneously hypertensive rats, endothelial dysfunction and subendothelial monocyte macrophage infiltration are associated and that cilazapril can decrease both. The observation that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors affect subendothelial accumulation of monocyte macrophage may lead to a better understanding of the mechanism of action of this class of drugs. 
Comparison of four subarachnoid solutions in a needle-through-needle technique for elective caesarean section. We have used both spinal and extradural anaesthesia with a 26-gauge, long spinal needle through a 16-gauge Tuohy needle for elective Caesarean section. Four different subarachnoid solutions of bupivacaine were compared: 0.5% heavy bupivacaine alone, or with adrenaline, fentanyl or adrenaline and fentanyl. The incidence of complications and time of regression of the sensory block were analysed. The technique is recommended because it allows rapid onset of anaesthesia and the advantages of an extradural catheter. The subarachnoid solution of choice was 0.5% heavy bupivacaine 12.5 mg with fentanyl 10 micrograms. 
Severe congestive heart failure. How successful are drug and transplant therapies? Severe congestive heart failure is a fatal illness. Aggressive use of proven medical regimens, including vasodilators and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may prolong survival time for some patients. Those with refractory symptoms and seriously reduced left ventricular function, impaired exercise capacity, and complex or frequent ventricular arrhythmias should be considered for cardiac transplantation. Candidacy for transplantation is based on the absence of other illnesses that would limit survival or diminish the likelihood of success of the transplant. With the introduction of potent immunosuppressive agents, particularly cyclosporine (Sandimmune), survival rates after transplantation have improved to 90% at 1 year. Major problems include organ rejection, serious infection, development of coronary artery disease in the transplanted heart, and the limited donor organ supply. 
Enhancement of ischaemic rabbit skin flap survival with the antioxidant and free-radical scavenger N-acetylcysteine. 1. The burst of damaging oxygen free-radicals at the time of reperfusion is one of the crucial factors affecting skin flap survival after an ischaemic interval. In these experiments the efficacy of the antioxidant and free-radical scavenger N-acetylcysteine in improving the survival of ischaemic rabbit epigastric skin flaps was tested. 2. At the time of reperfusion flaps were given: (1) balanced salt solution by intravenous whole-body administration, (2) N-acetylcysteine (200 mg/kg) by intravenous whole-body administration, (3) balanced salt solution by intra-arterial infusion into the flap, (4) N-acetylcysteine (20 mg/kg) by intra-arterial infusion into the flap, or (5) N-acetylcysteine (200 mg/kg) by intra-arterial infusion into the flap. Flap survival at 1 week, and tissue levels of parameters related to free-radical production, blood levels of thromboxane B2 and peripheral resistance during reperfusion were determined. 3. Compared with controls (groups 1 and 3) which had flap survival rates (expressed as percentage surface area surviving) of 27.1% and 31.6%, respectively. N-acetylcysteine treatment in group 2 (55.2%) and group 4 (51.9%) resulted in significant (P less than 0.05) improvements in flap survival. The survival rate in group 5 (37.7%) was not significantly better than that of the controls. 4. N-Acetylcysteine significantly reduced parameters related to free-radical production in the skin flap after 30 min of reperfusion, determined as tissue levels of malonyldialdehyde and protein oxidation products. There was also a significant decrease in peripheral resistance when low-dose N-acetylcysteine (group 4) was infused intra-arterially into the flap. 
Interference between gastroesophageal reflux and sleep in near miss SIDS. GER may be considered as one of the triggering factors in some apparently life-threatening events or even SIDS. Also at the present time, many teams perform 24-h pH monitoring in at-risk infants and treat those with abnormal scores. However, further investigations are needed to answer the question: Which unknown additional factor(s) is present when a specific episode of GER causes apnea and/or bradycardia either during sleep or wakefulness?. 
Evaluation and treatment of aneurysms of the vertebral artery: different strategies for different lesions. Aneurysms of the vertebral artery and its branches are relatively uncommon lesions. Their anatomy and presentation can be quite variable. A spectrum of aneurysms of the vertebral artery is presented to illustrate the neuroradiological evaluation, surgical treatment, and perioperative management of these complex lesions. 
Bladder compliance in myelodysplastic children: effect of anti-reflux surgery and conservative treatment. Paediatric urology. Little is known about changes in bladder compliance and bladder capacity in myelodysplastic patients following anti-reflux surgery. A study group of 70 patients was divided as follows: group A included 20 myelodysplastic patients who had been operated on for reflux and whose subsequent treatment was conservative. Group B comprised 31 myelodysplastic patients who had been treated conservatively; a third group of 19 non-myelodysplastic patients, treated by anti-reflux surgery because of primary reflux, formed the control group. The follow-up period for group A averaged 61 months (extending from a urodynamic study 3 months after surgery to the most recent test). In group B the mean follow-up period between the initial test and the latest test was 86 months. Bladder compliance in group A patients did not increase significantly (from 5.5 to 6.9), but patients in group B did show a significant increase (from 5.9 to 10.7). Compliance in the 19 non-myelodysplastic patients decreased only marginally 6 months after surgery (from 29.6 to 26.3). Changes in bladder capacity showed a similar trend. In their most recent test, however, the bladder capacity of group A patients increased to the same volume as that of group B. A high correlation between radiological bladder deformity and bladder compliance was found. We propose a bladder compliance of 10.0 as the lower limit for myelodysplastic patients' preferred range. It was concluded that anti-reflux operations prevent any improvement in bladder compliance (but not in bladder capacity) compared with conservative treatment. 
The opacity of portal hypertension-related ascites correlates with the fluid's triglyceride concentration. To determine if an elevated triglyceride concentration can explain the opacity of some cirrhotic ascites specimens, the authors measured triglyceride concentration by Coulter DACOS (Hialeah, FL) on 133 paired serum and ascitic fluid specimens. The specimens were categorized as clear or cloudy by coded visual inspection. In addition, the ascitic fluid specimens were inspected for a lipid supernatant after 48 hours of refrigeration at 4 degrees C. The ascitic fluid triglyceride concentration of the 87 clear specimens was 1.9 +/- 1.0 mmol/L compared with 7.0 +/- 4.6 mmol/L for the opalescent specimens (P less than 0.001). Only 17% of the clear specimens demonstrated any lipid layer after refrigeration, compared with 94% of opalescent specimens (P less than 0.001). The triglyceride concentrations were not significantly different between the serum samples obtained from patients with clear compared with opalescent ascites. The opacity of portal hypertension-related ascites appears to be related to the triglyceride concentration of the fluid. 
Spinal cord pial metastases: MR imaging with gadopentetate dimeglumine. The purpose of this investigation was to describe gadopentetate-dimeglumine-enhanced MR findings in metastatic disease to the pial lining of the spinal cord. Correlation was made with clinical data, other radiologic studies, and pathologic findings. Eighty-six patients with a known malignancy and unexplained neurologic signs or symptoms were studied with pre- and postcontrast T1-weighted images. In seven of these patients, abnormal enhancement of the pial lining of the cord was seen on the sagittal postcontrast T1-weighted images. This appeared as a thin rim of enhancement along the surface of the cord in six patients and as a focal, thick rim of enhancement in addition to the thin rim of enhancement in the seventh patient. Axial images confirmed the location along the pial lining in each case. Precontrast T1-weighted images in all seven cases and precontrast T2-weighted images in five cases failed to detect any focal abnormalities of the pial lining of the cord. Pathologic confirmation was available in five of the seven patients. Primary malignancies in these patients included breast carcinomas (two), lymphoma (one), leukemia (one), adenocarcinoma of the lung (one), prostate carcinoma (one), and malignant melanoma (one). Three of seven patients had metastatic disease evident only within the CNS, while four patients had widespread disease outside the CNS. We conclude that contrast-enhanced MR imaging is useful in the diagnosis of pial spread of metastatic disease in patients with a known primary malignancy and unexplained neurologic signs or symptoms. 
Facial nerve monitoring in acoustic tumor surgery. Anatomic and functional preservation of the facial nerve during acoustic tumor surgery remains a primary goal. Intraoperative electromyographic facial nerve monitoring with auditory feedback has enabled the surgeon to more readily achieve this goal. We compared a group of monitored translabyrinthine acoustic tumor removals (N = 89) to a similar unmonitored group (N = 155) in regard to facial nerve function. Function was assessed immediately postoperatively, at time of discharge, and at 1 year postoperatively using the House six-point scale. Results were grouped as satisfactory, intermediate, or poor and were analyzed by tumor size. Facial nerve results were better at all time intervals in the monitored groups, although the difference was not statistically significant at the 1-year interval. There was no difference between monitored and unmonitored patients in the subgroups with tumors smaller than 2.5 cm in diameter. This study supports the usefulness of intraoperative facial nerve monitoring in improving facial nerve results, particularly in larger tumors. 
Fatal persistent pulmonary hypertension presenting late in the neonatal period. Two cases of fatal idiopathic persistent pulmonary hypertension presented late in the neonatal period. Lungs were examined histologically by light and electron microscopy, and immunocytochemical studies were used to identify nerves. There was extension of medial smooth muscle distally along the arterial pathway so that most precapillary arteries had completely muscular walls, which in some cases completely obliterated the vessel lumen. Enlarged endothelial cells also contributed to the reduction in the size of the lumen. Nerve fibres accompanying muscular arteries were found in the alveolar region, more distal than is normal. The predominant neuropeptide was the vasoconstrictor tyrosine. Possible aetiological factors in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn are increased muscularity of the peripheral pulmonary arteries antenatally, an increase in the number of vasoconstrictor nerves, or an imbalance in the production of leukotrienes and prostacyclins in the perinatal period. 
False aneurysm of the right internal mammary artery. False aneurysm of the internal mammary artery is an uncommon complication of median sternotomy. Clinical and radiological findings of 2 such cases are presented. At operative exploration neither was directly related to the presence of a sternal wire. 
Continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve block after pleurectomy. A randomised, double blind trial was carried out in 16 patients undergoing pleurectomy to assess the effect of continuous extrapleural intercostal block on postoperative pain and pulmonary function. Subjective pain relief was assessed on a linear visual analogue scale. Pulmonary function was measured on the day before operation and daily for five days after surgery. Eight patients received bupivacaine and eight placebo (saline). The mean pain scores at 4, 8, 16, and 24 hours were 13.3, 8.5, 6.1, and 10 mm respectively in the bupivacaine group compared with 56.3, 41, 46.7, and 35 in the control group; in addition, the bupivacaine group required less papaveretum. Twenty four hours after surgery mean values of peak expiratory flow, forced expiratory volume in one second, and forced vital capacity were reduced to 82%, 76%, and 76% of preoperative control values in the bupivacaine group, and to 39%, 32%, and 36% in the control group. The speed of recovery of pulmonary function was superior in the bupivacaine group. There were no complications related to the infusion. Continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve blockade with bupivacaine provides safe and effective postoperative analgesia and improves respiratory mechanics after pleurectomy. 
Oral contraceptive-associated liver cell adenoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. Cytomorphology and mechanism of malignant transformation. From January 1976 to May 1990, 1673 patients with a liver mass or masses detected by imaging techniques underwent percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the liver. Of these, 99 were diagnosed cytologically as "hepatocellular carcinoma" and 9 as "consistent with liver cell adenoma." The cytologic diagnoses were confirmed in the follow-up of all cases. Among the 99 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 3 had taken oral contraceptives for a period of 10, 11, and 12 years, respectively. The nine patients with liver cell adenoma were all users of oral contraceptives over a period ranging from 5 to 10 years. Of these, two who had taken oral contraceptives for a period of 8 and 10 years, respectively, had foci or areas of liver cell dysplasia within the adenomas. The cytologic criteria for the diagnosis of liver cell dysplasia included cytoplasmic and nuclear enlargement, nuclear pleomorphism together with prominent nucleoli, hyperchromasia and multinucleation. The cytologic features of liver cell dysplasia strikingly mimic hepatocellular carcinoma. From this study, the foci or areas of liver cell dysplasia arising within the liver cell adenomas appear to be the missing link responsible for the transformation of liver cell adenoma to carcinoma. It is believed that liver cell adenomas are not premalignant and may undergo reversible change after withdrawal of causative agents, whereas liver cell dysplasia is an irreversible, premalignant change and will eventually progress to hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Turbinate hypertrophy in habitual snorers and patients with obstructive sleep apnea: findings of acoustic rhinometry. Forty-five habitual snorers (mean respiratory disturbance index = 6) and 22 patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (mean respiratory disturbance index = 36) were examined by polysomnography, radiocephalometry, rhinomanometry, nasopharyngeal videoendoscopy, and acoustic rhinometry. In 97% of these patients, hypertrophy of the inferior nasal turbinates was found by acoustic rhinometry, while increased nasal resistance of various degrees was measured in 93% of all patients by active anterior rhinomanometry. Acoustic rhinometry demonstrated that the most resistive segment was located in the anterior parts of the nasal cavity and was built up by two compartments: the region of the isthmus nasi and the region of the head of the inferior turbinate. In our snoring patients, the cross-sectional areas at the head of the inferior turbinate were always smaller than the cross-sectional areas in the isthmus nasi, which in normal controls presented the minimal cross-sectional values of the whole nasal cavity. While rhino-manometry can only measure the amount of nasal resistance, acoustic rhinometry can clearly determine the exact size and location of the different stenoses in the nasal cavity that contribute to the increased nasal resistance. 
The human hematopoietic progenitor cell antigen (CD34) in vascular neoplasia. The human hematopoietic progenitor cell antigen CD34 is synthesized and expressed by early normal hematopoietic progenitor cells and by many acute leukemias. Anti-CD34 antibodies also have been reported to stain blood vessels in tissue sections, and, more recently, CD34 mRNA has been detected in vascular endothelial cells. Therefore, the authors studied the diagnostic utility of immunohistochemical CD34 antigen detection in tumors of endothelial cell derivation and compared the results with stains for von Willebrand (vW) factor. A wide variety of epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasms also were examined to assess the specificity of CD34 for vascular neoplasia. Seven cases of angiosarcoma (seven of seven), five cases of Kaposi's sarcoma (five of five), and eight cases of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (eight of eight) were moderately to strongly positive for CD34. This reactivity was equally intense in frozen sections, alcohol-fixed tissue, and formalin-fixed specimens. In many cases, the malignant endothelial cells stained more strongly than adjacent benign endothelium. Moreover, in most cases CD34 positivity was quantitatively and qualitatively stronger than staining for vW factor. Two cases of hemangiopericytoma (two of two) were CD34 positive but stained less intensely than the angiosarcomas, Kaposi's sarcomas, or hemangioendotheliomas. Five of six cases of hemangioma also stained positively for CD34; the nonreactive tumor in this group was the only one among 28 vascular neoplasms studied that was not reactive for CD34. In comparison, 9 of the 28 vascular tumors did not stain for vW factor. Three hundred fifty-seven tumors of nonvascular derivation also were examined for CD34 antigen expression. Focal light staining was seen in one pulmonary squamous cell carcinoma; moderate to intense staining was observed in half of the epithelioid sarcomas studied (8 of 16) and in a minority of leiomyosarcomas (3 of 22). These findings indicate that CD34 is a sensitive and relatively specific marker for neoplasms of vascular origin. 
A case of vesical paraganglioma behind the symphysis pubis. We report on a 15-year-old boy with a vesical paraganglioma behind the symphysis pubis. Magnetic resonance imaging and transurethral intravesical ultrasonography were helpful in the preoperative localization of the lesion. 
Non-specific aorto-arteritis (Takayasu's disease) in children. Digital subtraction panaorto-arteriography was performed in 32 consecutive children (21 females, mean age 10.8 years) with non-specific aorto-arteritis to assess digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in imaging these children and to study the patterns of involvement in the Indian sub-continent. Diagnostic quality DSA images were obtained in 21 out of 27 intravenous and nine out of 11 intra-arterial studies. Obstructive lesions were present in all the patients and commonly involved the abdominal aorta (24 patients) and renal arteries (20 patients). Aneurysms were seen in five patients and predominantly involved the descending thoracic aorta. Pulmonary artery involvement was uncommon (five out of 20 patients) and clinically silent. Based on clinical and angiographic features, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was performed for the management of uncontrolled hypertension in eight patients (10 lesions). Initial success was obtained in eight procedures (80%). Re-stenosis occurred after 5.5 months in one patient, but was successfully re-dilated. The follow-up period ranged between 5 and 16 months (mean 9 months). Long-term efficacy of transluminal angioplasty in the management of these children is awaited. 
Compulsive overeating. Compulsive overeating is a behavior used in an attempt to numb or nurture feelings that are threatening to the person. Emotional states are soothed by use of food. Treatment is designed to respond to internal, biologic causes of hunger and satiety while simultaneously allowing feelings to surface and be dealt with. Work on the inner child enables the person to identify and deal with unmet needs and correct distortions from childhood. The secondary gain realized from the extra weight is examined, and direct means of dealing with these needs explored. The focus of recovery is on learning to nurture the self, physically and emotionally. 
Intralesional interferon alfa-2b in the treatment of basal cell carcinoma. Immunohistochemical study on cellular immune reaction leading to tumor regression. Four patients with basal cell carcinomas were treated with intralesional injections of interferon alfa-2b (1.5 million IU per injection) three times a week for 2 weeks. Histopathologic examination of biopsy specimens of the lesions confirmed the absence of basal cell carcinoma in all cases 4 weeks after completion of therapy. A dense mononuclear cell infiltrate and numerous ectatic blood vessels were present in the dermis at the sites of previous basal cell carcinoma. Immunohistologic analysis of the dermal infiltrate revealed a marked increase of Leu-4+ T cells with a slight predominance of Leu-3+ helper/inducer T cells over Leu-2+ suppressor/cytotoxic T cells. Most of the dermal infiltrate expressed HLA-DR antigen. In addition, Leu-11+ natural killer cells were observed in the dermal infiltrate. Immunohistologic changes in the skin lesions at the sites of previous basal cell carcinoma suggest that intralesional interferon alfa-2b acts on tumor cells by enhancement of local T-cell-mediated immune responses. 
Recurrent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade in a patient with hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis syndrome. We describe a patient with hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis syndrome complicated by recurrent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade. The episodes of pericarditis were associated with urticarial vasculitis, hypocomplementemia, and circulating IgG antibodies to the collagen-like region of Clq. Histopathologic examination of the skin and pericardium demonstrated vasculitis associated with immunoglobulin and complement deposition suggesting an immune complex mediated etiology. Recurrent pericarditis should be included in the clinical spectrum of hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis syndrome. 
Gonococcal endocarditis complicating pregnancy: a case report and literature review. The incidence of gonorrhea has decreased substantially in the past decade. Disseminated gonorrhea is more common in women than in men, although gonococcal endocarditis is more common in men. Disseminated gonorrhea is most commonly described in women during menses or pregnancy. Only two cases of gonococcal endocarditis during pregnancy have been reported in the literature since 1942. We report a patient who experienced sudden hemodynamic decompensation at 30 weeks' gestation, resulting in fetal death. Aortic valve replacement was performed, but extensive involvement of the aortic root made complete eradication of infection impossible and eventually resulted in maternal death. 
Survival and management considerations in postirradiation osteosarcoma and Paget's osteosarcoma. Postirradiation and Paget's osteosarcomas are high-grade malignancies. The five-year survival was only 10% in recent experience at the author's institution. Progressive pain is an important clinical feature in both conditions. Careful roentgenographic studies demonstrate cortical destruction and a soft-tissue mass in virtually all patients. Metastasis was present in 25% of both groups of patients at presentation. In contrast to previous series, more than 80% of the patients with postirradiation osteosarcoma had had irradiation for malignant entities and more than 70% had been treated with modern radiotherapy regimens (cobalt-60 or linear accelerator). Twice as many patients with postirradiation osteosarcoma were evaluated and treated in the 1980s than in the previous decade. The initial indication for irradiation often was carcinoma of the breast, uterus, or cervix, or lymphoma. Two-thirds of the patients had progressive disease that was not controllable within six months after diagnosis. Early detection may be the only effective means of improving survival with postirradiation or Paget's osteosarcoma. These patients require lifelong follow-up evaluations. 
Routine computed tomographic scans, selective mediastinoscopy, and other factors in evaluation of lung cancer. Routine computed tomographic scan is advocated as the best noninvasive method of evaluating mediastinal nodes for cancer spread. Positive studies should be confirmed histologically. Large size, central location, unfavorable cell type, poor cellular differentiation of the primary cancer, and weight loss also correlate with increased likelihood of mediastinal involvement. 
Toxic shock syndrome after pilonidal cystectomy. Report of a case. Toxic shock syndrome is an uncommon disease associated with staphylococcal infections. Although most frequently reported in menstruating women and associated with tampon use, toxic shock syndrome has been described following many types of surgical procedures. In this report we describe a case of toxic shock syndrome occurring in a previously healthy young man after elective surgery for a pilonidal cyst. 
Recovery after intense chronic stimulation: a physiological study of cat's fast muscle. Adult cats were used to study the recovery of muscles that had become altered by long-term electrical stimulation. Chronic activation was delivered to the deafferented common peroneal nerve (no pain, no reflexes), and contractile properties were measured for peroneus longus muscle. After 4 wk of great daily amounts of treatment at moderately high pulse rates (30-40 Hz delivered during 50% of daily time), the peroneus longus became considerably weaker, demonstrated a longer time course of twitches and a slower rate of rise of tetanic force, and became less fatigable. Furthermore, its twitch-to-tetanus ratio decreased, and there was no longer any depression of electromyogram (EMG) amplitude during fatigue tests. After 4 wk of subsequent rest it was found that 1) twitch speed and maximum tetanic force had returned to nearly normal values, 2) fatigue resistance showed some return toward normal but was still significantly enhanced, and 3) no significant recovery had yet occurred of the altered twitch-to-tetanus ratio, the abolished EMG depression, or the slowed rate of rise of tetanic tension. During the poststimulation recovery period, the progressive increase of isometric twitch speed was not promoted by the administration of small daily amounts of high-rate stimulation (100-Hz bursts). The results support the conclusions that 1) the time course of recovery differs among physiological properties, 2) the EMG and force reactions that occur during a fatigue test are not strongly coupled, as demonstrated by the alterations of their relationship during poststimulation recovery, and 3) in cat's fast muscles, there is still no evidence for rate-specific effects of chronic stimulation on isometric twitch speed. 
POEMS syndrome with idiopathic flushing mimicking carcinoid syndrome. POEMS syndrome, a rare multisystem disease, is a variant of osteosclerotic myeloma and is characterized by polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal proteins, and skin changes. Presented herein is a case of POEMS syndrome with flushing. The flushing was intermittent, involving the face and upper third of the trunk, and was associated with hypotension and bronchospasm. Final diagnosis was made by biopsy examination of an axillary lymph node, which showed angiofollicular hyperplasia that stained strongly and selectively for lambda light chains. The patient had most of the typical features of POEMS syndrome but was unique in that her most striking finding was carcinoid-like flushing. The flushing improved with steroid therapy, as did some of the other clinical features of her disease. This case suggests that idiopathic flushing can be added to the skin changes observed in POEMS syndrome. 
Magnetic resonance imaging shows specific abnormalities in the MELAS syndrome. The MELAS syndrome (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes) can be difficult to identify. We report MRI abnormalities that we believe are specific to this disorder in three patients with complete or partial MELAS syndrome. The patients all showed an unusual pattern on T2-weighted MRI with multifocal areas of hyperintense signal confined to the cortex of the cerebrum, cerebellum, and adjacent white matter. Some images suggested selective cortical involvement of deeper layers only. Deep white matter was relatively spared, distinguishing this from usual cerebrovascular disease or the edema after status epilepticus. Specificity of these findings is further suggested by a good correlation of these findings with the previously described unique postmortem brain pathology of MELAS. 
Examination of cardiorespiratory changes during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Comparison of monitoring of arterial oxygen saturation, arterial pressure and the electrocardiogram. Critical events including hypoxaemia, arrhythmias and myocardial ischaemia may occur more frequently during endoscopic procedures than during anaesthesia. A study was undertaken to assess the cardiovascular changes and to evaluate suitable monitoring techniques to detect critical events during sedation and endoscopy. Twenty patients scheduled to undergo a prolonged endoscopic procedure which required deep sedation were studied. Continuous recordings of electrocardiogram, heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation were made and arterial pressure was recorded at one-minute intervals. The study commenced immediately before administration of sedatives, continued for the duration of the examination and for one hour following the examination. Oxygen saturation decreased in all patients during the examination to a mean of 82.9% (SD 11.9), and remained below baseline for the duration of the examination and into the recovery period. Statistically significant increases and reductions of systolic arterial pressure and rate-pressure product were found during the procedures compared with baseline values recorded before administration of sedatives. Sixteen of the 20 patients developed tachycardia during the examination. Ten patients developed ectopic foci which were supraventricular, ventricular or both in origin. Electrocardiogram changes resolved during the recovery period. Myocardial ischaemia was assessed by S-T segment depression and a significant correlation was found between S-T segment depression and hypoxaemia, although the magnitude of the S-T depression was small and may not have been detected clinically. No correlation was found between S-T segment depression and arterial pressure, heart rate or rate-pressure product. 
Childhood epidermolysis bullosa acquisita. Report of three cases and review of literature. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita is an acquired subepidermal blistering disease with variable clinical, pathologic, and immunologic features. The disease has been reported infrequently in adults and only rarely in children. We describe three new cases of childhood epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, review three previously reported cases, and contrast the features of the disease in children with those in adults. The results suggest that both children and adults with epidermolysis bullosa acquisita have variable clinical and pathologic features that may mimic other bullous diseases. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita is characterized by a chronic course, poor response to therapy, and occasional clinical remissions. 
Digitalis and beta-blocking agents: effects on depression following myocardial infarction. Depression is frequently seen in patients following myocardial infarction (MI), many of whom are receiving digitalis glycosides, beta-blockers, or other agents that may exert central nervous system (CNS) effects. In a prospective study of the clinical significance of post-MI depression, 335 patients were assessed using a standardized diagnostic interview for depression at 8 to 10 days, and 190 were reinterviewed at 3 to 4 months. Patients prescribed digitalis, beta-blockers, or other cardioactive medications at hospital discharge were identified. Logistic regression analyses were performed to determine the contribution of these agents to depression at 3 to 4 months, controlling for medical and sociodemographic factors as well as for baseline depression. Treatment with digitalis predicted depression at 3 to 4 months (p less than 0.05); no other medications, including beta-blockers, predicted depression (p greater than 0.10). Digitalis may have CNS effects that contribute to depression post-MI and this finding should be considered in the differential diagnosis of depression in cardiac patients. 
Older age and elevated blood pressure are risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage after thrombolysis. Intracerebral hemorrhage is an important concern after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, but risk factors are controversial. Accordingly, we assessed risk factors in 107 treated patients of whom 4 had intracerebral hemorrhage. Intracerebral hemorrhage occurred at a mean of 25 hours (range 3.5 to 48) after therapy and was fatal in 2 patients. Significant differences were found between patients with and without intracerebral hemorrhage for age (77 +/- 7 vs 62 +/- 11 years, p less than or equal to 0.01), and initial (161 +/- 23 vs 135 +/- 23 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.03) and maximal (171 +/- 30 vs 146 +/- 20, p less than or equal to 0.02) systolic blood pressures. Initial and maximal diastolic blood pressures also tended to be higher (101 +/- 25 vs 86 +/- 16, p less than or equal to 0.07; 104 +/- 24 vs 90 +/- 13, p less than or equal to 0.06). Differences did not achieve significance for comparisons of gender, height, weight, site of infarction, time to therapy, specific thrombolytic agent used, concomitant therapy, interventions and partial thromboplastin time. It is concluded that age (greater than or equal to 70 years) and elevated blood pressure (greater than or equal to 150/95 mm Hg) are important risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage. The overall balance of benefit and risk of thrombolysis should continue to be assessed by large mortality trials. 
Extended aortic root replacement with cryopreserved allografts: do they hold up? The extended aortic root replacement technique is used for the surgical repair of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction complicated by concurrent hypoplastic aortic annulus, multiple levels of obstruction, or aortic insufficiency. Extended aortic root replacement incorporates the concepts of aortic root replacement and aortoventriculoplasty to create a comparatively simple procedure. Unique features of the technique include the implantation of an allograft, which makes the need for anticoagulation obsolete, and use of the donor mitral leaflet to enlarge the outflow tract. Since 1985, 32 patients in Denver have undergone placement of a cryopreserved aortic valve allograft as part of extended aortic root replacement. There were four hospital deaths (13%), and 1 child underwent cardiac transplantation 30 hours after operation. In 6 months to 4.8 years of follow-up, a 14-year-old boy with familial hyperlipidemia required coronary artery bypass grafting, and 3 children experienced allograft calcification with progressive insufficiency, which prompted allograft replacement. The other 23 patients are clinically well. 
Non-antireflux versus antireflux ureteroneocystostomy in adults. A retrospective analysis of ureteric reimplantation in adults showed that a high proportion (71%) had been treated by non-antireflux procedures. Analysis of the ureteroneocystostomy success rate in aetiological groups where either antireflux or non-antireflux techniques were used indicated the superiority of antireflux surgery in the prevention of reflux. The risk of stenosis at the site of anastomosis was equal in both groups. No significant difference in the preservation of renal function was detected in the 2 groups. It was concluded that antireflux procedures offered no advantage over non-antireflux ureteric reimplantation in adults. 
Acute cor pulmonale secondary to metastatic tumor to the heart: a case report and literature review. Metastatic tumors to the heart are becoming more common due to improved survival afforded by advanced treatment of malignancies. Their presence should be sought in a cancer patient who develops new primary cardiac symptoms. We present a case of a 50-year-old woman who succumbed to acute cor pulmonale secondary to metastatic laryngeal carcinoma to the right ventricle with subsequent tumor emboli to the pulmonary vasculature. 
Tentorial subdural hemorrhage in term newborns: ultrasonographic diagnosis and clinical correlates. Tentorial subdural hemorrhage with its supratentorial and infratentorial extensions were diagnosed by cranial ultrasonography and computed tomography in 9 term newborns. Vacuum extraction or forceps delivery was used in 6 patients. Abnormal neurologic manifestations developed after a period of normality in 8 patients. Increased intracranial pressure was the most common presentation. All patients had hemorrhage at the falcotentorial junction near the incisura; 5 also had hemorrhage around the tentorial leaflet. Posterior fossa retrocerebellar subdural hemorrhage developed in 5 patients and posterior interhemispheric subdural hemorrhage developed in 4. All 6 patients who received conservative treatment had normal neurodevelopmental outcomes. Of the other 3 patients upon whom suboccipital craniotomies were performed, only 1 had a normal outcome. Although it localized the tentorial subdural hemorrhage either at the incisura area or at the tentorial leaflet, ultrasonography failed to identify all patients with retrocerebellar or posterior interhemispheric subdural hemorrhage. Parturitional tentorial subdural hemorrhage may not be uncommon. Ultrasonography and computed tomography are complementary in the diagnosis. Surgical decompression of the posterior fossa subdural hematoma is necessary only in the presence of acute hydrocephalus or signs of brainstem compression. 
Efficacy of a postoperative regimen of enoxaparin in deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis. Venous thromboembolism is a common complication in patients undergoing elective hip replacement, in whom the incidence of calf vein thrombosis is 40% to 60%; proximal vein thrombosis, 20%; and fatal pulmonary embolism, 1% to 2% when prophylaxis is not used. A double-blind, randomized trial comparing low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin) with placebo for the prevention of venous thrombosis in patients undergoing elective hip surgery was carried out. Prophylactic treatment with a fixed dose was begun postoperatively and continued for 14 days. Fifty patients in each treatment group underwent surveillance with 125I-fibrinogen leg scanning and impedance plethysmography. In the first 24 patients, venography was performed only if their surveillance test was positive. Venography was requested in the remaining 76 patients even if the screening tests were negative; in this latter group, venous thrombosis occurred in 4 patients (10.8%) given enoxaparin and 20 patients (51.3%) given placebo (p = 0.0002). The corresponding rates for proximal vein thrombosis were 5.4% and 23.1%, respectively (p = 0.029). In the entire group of 100 patients, venous thrombosis occurred in 12% of those given enoxaparin and 42% of those given placebo (p = 0.0007). The corresponding rates for proximal vein thrombi were 4% and 20%, respectively (p = 0.014). The observed hemorrhagic rate was 5% in each treatment group. The results of this study show that prophylaxis with fixed-dose enoxaparin is effective and safe for patients undergoing elective hip replacement. 
Liposarcoma of the esophagus. Liposarcoma is one of the most common soft tissue sarcomas found in adults, yet it rarely develops in the alimentary tract. This report describes the pathological features and management of a liposarcoma of the esophagus. 
Testing for association between disease and linked marker loci: a log-linear-model analysis. One approach frequently used for identifying genetic factors involved in the process of a complex disease is the comparison of patients and controls for a number of genetic markers near a candidate gene. The analysis of such association studies raises some specific problems because of the fact that genotypic and not gametic data are generally available. We present a log-linear-model analysis providing a valid method for analyzing such studies. When studying the association of disease with one marker locus, the log-linear model allows one to test for the difference between allelic frequencies among affected and unaffected individuals, Hardy-Weinberg (H-W) equilibrium in both groups, and interaction between the association of alleles at the marker locus and disease. This interaction provides information about the dominance of the disease susceptibility locus, with dominance defined using the epidemiological notion of odds ratio. The degree of dominance measured at the marker locus depends on the strength of linkage disequilibrium between the marker locus and the disease locus. When studying the association of disease with several linked markers, the model becomes rapidly complex and uninterpretable unless it is assumed that affected and unaffected populations are in H-W equilibrium at each locus. This hypothesis must be tested before going ahead in the analysis. If it is not rejected, the log-linear model offers a stepwise method of identification of the parameters causing the difference between populations. This model can be extended to any number of loci, alleles, or populations. 
Comparison of image analysis and flow cytometric determination of cellular DNA content. A good correlation (r = 0.94) was obtained between the DNA indices (DI) using flow cytometry and image analysis of nuclei cytospins extracted from paraffin wax embedded tumour sections. Some of the limitations and problems associated with image analysis which came to light included an unacceptably high coefficient of variation (CV) and a "left-shift" in the DI in most DNA histograms obtained when using image analysis of 5 microns sections. In contrast, the DNA histograms generated using image analysis of cytospun nuclei from paraffin wax blocks were of good quality and similar to those obtained using flow cytometry. Variability in Feulgen staining was common and an important source of error despite rigorous control of the staining technique. This could be overcome by using internal controls such as fibroblasts rather than external controls (rat hepatocytes) to determine the diploid DI with image analysis. A thorough understanding and appreciation of the methodological problems associated with image analysis and flow cytometric determination of DNA content is required before these methods find widespread clinical application. 
Exercise radionuclide angiocardiography predicts cardiac death in patients with coronary artery disease. The purpose of this investigation was to document the relative importance of three clinical and three radionuclide variables for prediction of cardiac death in a consecutive group of patients evaluated for coronary artery disease. During a 6 1/2-year period, beginning in January 1978, 2,042 consecutive patients underwent radionuclide angiocardiography, with a clinical diagnosis of coronary artery disease, at Duke University Medical Center. A subgroup of 318 patients who underwent surgical myocardial revascularization near the time of initial study were excluded from later analysis. Clinical follow-up information was complete in a group of 1,663 patients who did not undergo interventional therapy. The 141 cardiac deaths in these 1,663 patients were the study end point. Cox proportional hazards models analyzed the prognostic information contained in three clinical variables (pain type, age, and sex) and three radionuclide angiocardiogram variables (exercise ejection fraction, resting end-diastolic volume, and change in heart rate with exercise). One-variable models confirmed the prognostic importance of each of these six variables. A multivariable model in which all six variables were used showed clinical variables to contain only 5% and the radionuclide variables 95% of the prognostic information. The exercise ejection fraction was the single most important variable, which alone contained 85% of the total information in the model. Curves relating probability of no cardiac death to the exercise ejection fraction identified a value of 0.50 as an inflection point. Patients with exercise ejection fractions below 0.50 demonstrate a probability of cardiac death that increases as the ejection fraction decreases. 
Interferon therapy for acute posttransfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis: response with respect to anti-hepatitis C virus antibody status. To assess the effect of interferon therapy on posttransfusion non-A, non-B acute hepatitis, we examined the appearance of serum hepatitis C virus antibody (anti-HCV) and abnormal serum aminotransferase levels after the onset of hepatitis in 12 patients treated with interferon and in 46 patients treated conservatively. Eleven patients were given 3 million units of human fibroblast beta-interferon three times weekly for 4 wk and 1 was given one million units of human lymphoblastoid alpha-interferon daily for 3 months. In the interferon-treated patients, the effect of therapy on hepatic histology was also assessed. Detection of anti-HCV within 6 and 12 months after the onset of hepatitis was less common in interferon-treated patients than in control patients (6/12 vs 35/46 and 5/12 vs 35/46, both p = NS). At 24 months after the onset of hepatitis, anti-HCV levels were significantly lower in interferon-treated patients (0/10, p less than 0.05), but had not changed significantly in control patients (34/46). Abnormal serum aminotransferase levels at 6, 12, and 24 months after the onset of hepatitis were significantly less common in interferon-treated patients than in controls (25% vs 78.3%, p less than 0.005; 25% vs 71.7%, p less than 0.01; and 0% vs 67.4%, p less than 0.001). The percentage of abnormal serum aminotransferase levels at 6, 12, and 24 months after onset of hepatitis was also less in interferon-treated patients than in control patients, both among anti-HCV-positive patients (50% vs 85.7%, p = NS; 50% vs 80%, p = NS; and 0% vs 77.1%, p less than 0.01) and among anti-HCV-negative patients (0% vs 54.5%, p = NS; 0% vs 45.5%, p = NS; and 0% vs 27.3%, p = NS). Immediately after interferon therapy, the histological activity index dropped from 6.0 +/- 4.2 to 4.8 +/- 2.5 in anti-HCV-positive patients (p = NS) and from 4.2 +/- 4.3 to 2.6 +/- 1.7 in anti-HCV-negative patients (p = NS). Biopsy specimens obtained from four patients 12-23 months after interferon therapy revealed normal histology in one anti-HCV-positive patient and two anti-HCV-negative patients, and marked improvement in the other anti-HCV-positive patient. These results indicate that short-term, low-dose interferon therapy may be effective for posttransfusion non-A, non-B acute hepatitis (both anti-HCV-positive and anti-HCV-negative). 
Diagnosis and treatment of oral candidosis. Oral candidosis is a common opportunistic infection that manifests in a variety of forms. It is also recognized as one of the earliest manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Although a number of antifungal agents are available for the treatment of this condition, a newly introduced triazole group of drugs appears to be highly effective in treating oral candidosis. This article reviews the clinical presentation and management of oral candidosis, particularly with reference to the latter group of drugs and HIV-induced disease. 
Experimental cardiac tamponade: a hemodynamic and Doppler echocardiographic reexamination of the relation of right and left heart ejection dynamics to the phase of respiration. A hallmark of cardiac tamponade is pulsus paradoxus. However, the exact mechanism of pulsus paradoxus and the relation of left and right ventricular ejection dynamics remain controversial, with some studies suggesting an inverse relation in ventricular filling and ejection and others citing a more important role for the effects of right heart ejection dynamics delayed by transit through the pulmonary artery bed. To specifically reexamine this issue, six sedated but spontaneously breathing dogs were studied during experimental cardiac tamponade with use of extensive hemodynamic instrumentation and Doppler methods. During cardiac tamponade, left ventricular systolic pressure decreased from 125.8 +/- 12.1 to 81.7 +/- 26.7 mm Hg (p less than 0.01) and cardiac output from 5.86 +/- 1.48 to 2.34 +/- 0.98 liters/min (p less than 0.001); mean pericardial pressure increased from -1.2 +/- 0.8 to 10.5 +/- 3 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) and pulsus paradoxus from 4.3 +/- 1.6 to 10.7 +/- 1.2 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) compared with baseline values. An inverse relation in left and right ventricular ejection dynamics that was very close to 180 degrees out of phase was seen throughout the respiratory cycle in multiple hemodynamic and Doppler variables including peak systolic pressures, aortic and pulmonary flow velocities and ventricular ejection times. Simultaneous recording of the transmitral pressure gradient provided indirect evidence that the ventricular ejection dynamics were directly related to changes in ventricular filling. However, the magnitude of ventricular pressure or output flow velocity for each respiratory cycle was variable, depending on the exact timing of filling and ejection in relation to the phase of respiration. Variation in left ventricular output due to changes in right ventricular output delayed by transit through the pulmonary vasculature was not recognized in any animal. It is concluded that in spontaneously breathing dogs with acute cardiac tamponade, peak ventricular pressures, ventricular ejection times and pulmonary and aortic flow velocities have an inverse relation that is very close to 180 degrees out of phase. 
Pyogenic vertebral osteomyelitis with paralysis. Prognosis and treatment. In the interval between 1983 and 1988, 14 patients were treated for pyogenic spondylitis complicated by neurologic compromise. There were nine males and five females aged 39-80 years. The average time between onset of symptoms and diagnosis was 2.8 months. Predisposing factors were diabetes mellitus in four patients and urinary tract infections in five patients. The infection was blood borne in all 14 patients. In two patients, the infection was superimposed on a recent vertebral fracture. The cervical spine was involved in one patient; the thoracic spine in seven; and the lumbar spine in six patients. Six patients presented with a Frankel B paralysis, six with a Frankel C paralysis, and two with grade D paralysis. The neurologic symptoms lasted between one day and six weeks before surgery. Twelve patients had anterolateral decompression. Two of the 12 patients had a second stage posterior stabilization. Two patients were deemed inoperable. All surviving patients were managed by parenteral antibiotics for three to six weeks followed by enteral route for a total of three to six months. All 12 operated patients had a significant neurologic improvement (one grade or more on the Frankel scale) with solid interbody fusion. 
Cell kinetics of gastrointestinal tumors after different nutritional regimens. A preliminary report. Forty-four cases of different untreated gastrointestinal tumors were studied with regard to cell kinetic activity. As a pilot experiment, we also determined the 3H-TdR Labeling Index (LI) in 28 patients in basal conditions and after 15 days of nutritional manipulation with prevalently lipid-based or glucose-based feeding to ascertain whether selective nutritional regimens could affect tumor proliferation. Preliminary results from this study indicate that a kinetic perturbation is induced in tumor cells by nutritional manipulation. Lipid-based feeding seems to produce effects similar to those of chemical or physical anticancer agents, thus suggesting a possible supporting role of nutritional manipulation in cancer treatment strategy. 
Direct correlation of cytogenetic findings with cell morphology using in situ hybridization: an analysis of suspicious cells in bone marrow specimens of two patients completing therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Bone marrow cells from two pediatric patients completing therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia were studied using in situ hybridization with an alpha-satellite DNA probe specific for chromosome 17. Morphologic analysis of the end-therapy specimens from each patient had shown small numbers (7.5%, 8.5%) of cells that were suspicious for residual or recurrent disease. These cells could not be morphologically or immunophenotypically distinguished with certainty from immature lymphoid cells (hematogones), which may be present normally, sometimes in increased numbers, in the bone marrow specimens of children. In situ hybridization with a probe to chromosome 17 was used because the leukemic cells from each patient had originally been shown to have an extra copy of this chromosome. In one patient, in situ studies showed a population of cells (106 of 1,000 cells) with three hybridization signals indicating trisomy 17, and thus residual/recurrent leukemia. In the other patient trisomy 17 could not be detected. Additional hybridizations to previously stained bone marrow aspirate smears permitted a direct correlation of the cytogenetic findings with the suspicious cells on a cell-to-cell basis. The questionable cells were identified, photographed, and then re-examined after hybridization. In one patient, 13 of 18 (72%) of the suspicious cells were found to have trisomy 17, whereas in the other patient 0 of 24 (0%) demonstrated an extra copy of this chromosome. These cases illustrate a clinical application of interphase cytogenetic analysis and demonstrate how this technology can be used for direct correlation of cytogenetic findings with cell morphology. This technique should prove useful for the detection of minimal residual disease and for lineage studies in leukemia and myelodysplasia. 
Genesis of arrhythmias in the failing heart and therapeutic implications. Between 50 and 70% of patients with heart failure die suddenly and unexpectedly before they have deteriorated to New York Heart Association class IV symptoms. It has long been known that ventricular ectopy predicts sudden cardiac death in coronary heart disease, and this has also been shown in dilated cardiomyopathy. It is less certain whether antiarrhythmic drugs reduce this risk and improve prognosis. Supraventricular arrhythmias frequently develop in heart failure of all causes. They nearly always cause symptoms, and the establishment of atrial fibrillation may mark a permanent deterioration. Except for sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular arrhythmias are often occult. Hypokalemia and digitalis toxicity may have been precipitated by diuretics or interaction with antiarrhythmic drugs. In coronary heart failure, arrhythmias may be related to scar tissue or ischemia, which may also be responsible in dilated cardiomyopathy. Use of inotropes and inodilators may precipitate arrhythmias, whereas drugs that conserve energy or potassium, such as beta blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may prevent them. Since suppression of ventricular arrhythmias has not been shown to prevent sudden death or prolong life in patients with heart failure, it may be that such arrhythmias do not directly presage ventricular fibrillation except in so far as they are markers of a poor prognosis with a risk of sudden death. If so, such arrhythmias are most likely to be suppressed by agents that result in improvement of left ventricular function and, through that, prolongation of life. 
Nutritional supplementation, psychosocial stimulation, and mental development of stunted children: the Jamaican Study. There is little unequivocal evidence that nutritional supplementation of undernourished children has a beneficial effect on their mental development. The effects of nutritional supplementation, with or without psychosocial stimulation, of growth-retarded (stunted) children aged 9-24 months were assessed in a study in Kingston, Jamaica. 129 children from poor neighbourhoods were randomly assigned to four groups--control, supplemented only, stimulated only, and supplemented plus stimulated. A group of matched non-stunted children (n = 32) was also included. The supplement comprised 1 kg milk-based formula per week for 2 years, and the stimulation weekly play sessions at home with a community health aide. The children's development (DQ) was assessed on the Griffiths mental development scales. Initially the stunted groups' DQs were lower than those of the non-stunted group, and those of the control group declined during the study, increasing their deficit. Stimulation and supplementation had significant independent beneficial effects on the children's development. Estimates of the supplementation effect ranged from 2.2 (95% confidence limits-1.4, 5.7) for the hand and eye subscale to 12.4 (5.4, 19.5) for the locomotor subscale and those for the stimulation effect from 6.4 (2.8, 10.0) for hand and eye to 10.3 (3.3, 17.3) for locomotor. The treatment effects were additive, and combined interventions were significantly more effective than either alone. These findings suggest that poor mental development in stunted children is at least partly attributable to undernutrition. 
Limitations of the electrocardiogram in estimating infarction size after acute reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE: To assess the ability of the 12-lead electrocardiogram to estimate infarction size after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. DESIGN: The presence or absence of Q waves and the Selvester QRS score obtained before and after hospital discharge were compared with radionuclide estimates of infarction size and ejection fraction at discharge and 6 weeks later, regional wall motion at discharge and 6 weeks later, and myocardial perfusion defect size quantitated with Tc-99m-sestamibi at discharge. SETTING: A tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: A consecutive series of 43 patients with acute myocardial infarction who received acute reperfusion therapy and were assessed using 12-lead electrocardiography, radionuclide angiography, and Tc-99m-sestamibi tomographic imaging before discharge. INTERVENTIONS: All 43 patients received acute reperfusion therapy: 21 patients received intravenous tissue plasminogen activator, and 22 patients underwent primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The correlation of QRS score and Q waves with three radionuclide estimates of infarction size. RESULTS: A significant correlation was found between myocardial perfusion defect size at discharge and both left ventricular ejection fraction and regional wall motion at discharge and 6 weeks later (r = -0.71 to -0.81; all comparisons, P less than 0.001). Little correlation was found between electrocardiographic findings and radionuclide measurements of left ventricular function and perfusion. Presence or absence of Q waves at discharge was not associated with any difference in ejection fraction, regional wall motion, or perfusion defect at discharge. No correlation was found between QRS score and ejection fraction or myocardial perfusion defect size at discharge. The QRS score at discharge correlated only weakly with regional wall motion at discharge and 6 weeks later. This lack of correlation was unchanged when electrocardiograms obtained after hospital discharge were analyzed. CONCLUSION: Although inexpensive and readily available, the 12-lead electrocardiogram does not appear to provide a reliable estimate of infarction size after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. 
Beneficial effects of alpha 1-adrenoceptor activity on myocardial stunning in dogs. This study was undertaken to elucidate whether alpha-1 adrenoceptor activity is beneficial to contractile dysfunction during reperfusion after a brief period of ischemia (stunned myocardium) in 54 open-chest dogs. Contractile dysfunction assessed by fractional shortening (FS) was observed 3 hours after the onset of reperfusion following 15 minutes of complete occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Pretreatment with prazosin (4 micrograms/kg/min i.c.) further deteriorated contractile dysfunction compared with the untreated condition (12.7 +/- 0.6% versus 6.9 +/- 0.4% with prazosin treatment, p less than 0.001). Conversely, alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonists, methoxamine (1.0 microgram/kg/min i.c.) and norepinephrine (0.24 microgram/kg/min i.c.) with rauwolscine and propranolol, significantly attenuated contractile dysfunction (FS in the methoxamine-treated group, 17.3 +/- 0.3%, p less than 0.001 versus the untreated group; FS in the norepinephrine-treated group, 18.0 +/- 0.9%, p less than 0.05 versus 13.6 +/- 1.1% in the propranolol group). Both adenosine release and hyperemic coronary flow response during the early reperfusion period were significantly attenuated in the prazosin-treated group, and both were enhanced in the alpha 1-adrenoceptor stimulation groups. These results suggest that beneficial effects of alpha 1-adrenoceptor activity may be due to the enhanced release of adenosine. To test the cause-effect relation between the extent of adenosine release and contractile dysfunction during reperfusion, 8-phenyltheophylline was infused to block adenosine receptors in the methoxamine-treated group. The treatment with 8-phenyltheophylline completely abolished (FS, 7.4 +/- 0.3%) the beneficial effect of the enhanced adenosine release by alpha 1-adrenoceptor stimulation. Furthermore, in the prazosin-treated group, adenosine (9 micrograms/kg/min) was additionally infused into the left anterior descending coronary artery 5 minutes before and 2 hours after the onset of reperfusion. Both hyperemic coronary flow and contractile dysfunction (FS, 17.3 +/- 0.3%) recovered to the levels of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor stimulation groups. However, treatment with papaverine could not prevent deleterious effects of prazosin despite the fact that comparable hyperemic flow was obtained. Instead, lactate production up to 10 minutes after the onset of reperfusion was significantly larger (p less than 0.01) despite augmented contractile function in the prazosin-treated and the 8-phenyltheophylline with methoxamine-treated groups compared with the untreated group. The electron microscopic examination revealed no irreversible myocardial injury with and without pharmacological interventions. Thus, we conclude that alpha 1-adrenoceptor activity can reduce the magnitude of myocardial stunning and that its cellular mechanism is due to enhanced adenosine release by alpha 1-adrenoceptor activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Grafting of perfused adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus of patients with Parkinson's disease. Clinica Puerta de Hierro Neural Transplantation Group. The authors report results obtained in 20 severely affected patients with Parkinson's disease (Grade IV or V) who received an autotransplant of perfused adrenal medullary tissue. This study seems to indicate that these autoimplants can improve the parkinsonian symptomatology and induce amelioration in the patients' performance of routine activities. All the symptoms analyzed showed improvement, although it differed in intensity and time of onset. Moreover, this improvement was accompanied by a reduction in the daily intake of L-dopa, with discontinuance of dopamine agonists and amantadine. A number of medical complications were encountered, including three deaths, probably related to performing abdominal surgery in seriously affected parkinsonian patients who were unable to tolerate the discontinuance of their medication. The transient psychiatric disorders observed appeared to be related to the postoperative dose of L-dopa and/or anticholinergic agents administered, and diminished or disappeared when the doses were reduced. The reasons for improvement, which was bilateral, remain unknown, although one cause may be the surgical trauma (minicaudotomy) together with the implantation of adrenal medullary tissue, which may promote the sprouting of surviving dopaminergic fibers. Moreover, in this series, perfusion of adrenal medulla increased the capacity for revascularization of the tissue and may have reduced the damaging effects of warm ischemia on the cells. This, together with the existence of fenestrated vessels, could hypothetically have served as an access point for drugs, and if the implanted cells were viable, they might have served to store and manufacture different factors and/or transmitters. These results as well as those of other groups justify the development of a controlled international clinical trial. 
Isradipine: overall clinical experience in hypertension in the United States. Isradipine is a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist shown to be efficacious, safe, and well tolerated in the treatment of hypertension, regardless of patient age or race. There has been no evidence of negative inotropism, atrioventricular conduction delay, nor clinically significant changes in laboratory parameters associated with isradipine treatment. A total of 934 patients have been treated with isradipine in double-blind hypertension trials (involving 297 patients treated with placebo and 414 treated with active controls, such as hydrochlorothiazide and enalapril). Both the mean changes from baseline in diastolic and systolic blood pressures and the percentage of patients responding to treatment (blood pressure decrease of at least 10 mm Hg) were greater with isradipine than with placebo or active controls. Blood pressure response increases with increases in isradipine dose up to 10 to 15 mg daily; higher doses do not, on average, result in greater blood pressure reduction. The incidence of adverse reactions with isradipine is similar to that for active controls and slightly more than for placebo. There were fewer discontinuations with isradipine and, in addition, a decrease in the incidence of new adverse reactions with increasing duration of treatment, down to 1% at 24 months. 
Chronic neurologic manifestations of Lyme disease BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Lyme disease, caused by the tick-borne spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi, is associated with a wide variety of neurologic manifestations. To define further the chronic neurologic abnormalities of Lyme disease, we studied 27 patients (age range, 25 to 72 years) with previous signs of Lyme disease, current evidence of immunity to B. burgdorferi, and chronic neurologic symptoms with no other identifiable cause. Eight of the patients had been followed prospectively for 8 to 12 years after the onset of infection. RESULTS. Of the 27 patients, 24 (89 percent) had a mild encephalopathy that began 1 month to 14 years after the onset of the disease and was characterized by memory loss, mood changes, or sleep disturbance. Of the 24 patients, 14 had memory impairment on neuropsychological tests, and 18 had increased cerebrospinal fluid protein levels, evidence of intrathecal production of antibody to B. burgdorferi, or both. Nineteen of the 27 patients (70 percent) had polyneuropathy with radicular pain or distal paresthesias; all but two of these patients also had encephalopathy. In 16 patients electrophysiologic testing showed an axonal polyneuropathy. One patient had leukoencephalitis with asymmetric spastic diplegia, periventricular white-matter lesions, and intrathecal production of antibody to B. burgdorferi. Among the 27 patients, associated symptoms included fatigue (74 percent), headache (48 percent), arthritis (37 percent), and hearing loss (15 percent). At the time of examination, chronic neurologic abnormalities had been present from 3 months to 14 years, usually with little progression. Six months after a two-week course of intravenous ceftriaxone (2 g daily), 17 patients (63 percent) had improvement, 6 (22 percent) had improvement but then relapsed, and 4 (15 percent) had no change in their condition. CONCLUSIONS. Months to years after the initial infection with B. burgdorferi, patients with Lyme disease may have chronic encephalopathy, polyneuropathy, or less commonly, leukoencephalitis. These chronic neurologic abnormalities usually improve with antibiotic therapy. 
Menstrual cycle factors related to increased gastric contractile response to tube feeding. Evidence exists that the ovarian hormones have a modulating effect on gastrointestinal (GI) motility, yet details are sketchy and little attention has been paid to the effect that fluctuating hormone levels might have on women who are receiving enteral feedings. This study compared gastric motility indices in response to tube feedings at two points in the menstrual cycle, concurrently measured ovarian hormone levels, and described three potentially related factors (ie, GI symptoms, uterine cramping pain, reports of daily stressors). Intragastric motility responses to enteral feedings were obtained on 28 women (aged 19-37) during menses and midfollicular phases of two menstrual cycles. Intragastric pressure changes were monitored by an open-tipped cannula method at rest, during and after tube feeding (Ensure, 240 ml at 8 ml/min). Serum estradiol and progesterone levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Women completed a daily diary of symptoms and stressors throughout the two menstrual cycles. Results showed that intragastric pressure amplitudes and frequencies were higher at menses compared with midfollicular recordings. At menses, prefeeding and feeding gastric pressure amplitudes were positively correlated with uterine cramping pain and GI symptoms (ie, nausea). At menses, postfeeding contraction frequencies were also correlated with uterine cramping pain. At midfollicular phase, progesterone levels correlated with gastric motility indices; number of stressors indirectly correlated with gastric motility indices. These data suggest that gastric responses to enteral feeding are influenced by menstrual cycle phase. 
Nd:YAG laser-induced hyperthermia treatment of spontaneously occurring veterinary head and neck tumors. Conventional hyperthermia treatment of superficial tumors in the oral cavity is troublesome due to difficulty in accessing the lesion. A new hyperthermia technique employing near-infrared radiation delivered through a flexible silica optical fiber is described. The system consisted of an Nd:YAG laser for tissue heating, a He-Ne laser for aiming beam, a computer-controlled optical shutter, an interstitial thermometer, computer, and a printer. A 3-m-long 600-microns silica fiber delivered laser energy to the tumor via surface illumination. Using the aiming beam, the spot size was adjusted to include 5 mm of surrounding normal tissue. A thermocouple implanted in the tumor base provided temperature feedback to maintain desired hyperthermic temperature within the lesion. Three spontaneously occurring canine (two squamous cell carcinomas on the gum, one pigmented melanoma on the hard palate) and one feline tumor (squamous cell carcinoma on the nose) have been treated with Nd:YAG laser hyperthermia. Hyperthermia was delivered at 43.5 degrees C for 1 h. All animals received standard radiation treatment prior to hyperthermia. Nd:YAG laser hyperthermia allowed effective and efficient delivery of heat to veterinary nasal and oral lesions otherwise not treatable with conventional heating techniques. 
Pulmonary function tests in bronchopleural fistula. A 53-year-old white man underwent a left pneumonectomy for alveolar cell carcinoma. His postoperative course was complicated by pneumonia. At a follow-up clinic visit, the patient complained of a "roaring sound" during respiration. A follow-up PFT did not show the expected loss of volume (nitrogen washout) from a preoperative PFT, suggesting a bronchopleural fistula. A chest x-ray film and xenon lung scan confirmed the diagnosis. The fistula was surgically repaired. 
End-to-end repair of aortic coarctation using absorbable polydioxanone suture. Based on previous laboratory work, we have used polydioxanone absorbable suture in a variety of vascular and cardiac repairs in pediatric patients. However, some investigators have expressed concern about the potential for aneurysm formation at the anastomotic site. Between March 1983 and June 1989, 15 patients (7 male, 8 female) aged 2.5 months to 9.2 years (mean, 3.7 years) had resection of coarctation of the aorta and end-to-end anastomosis with polydioxanone absorbable suture. Thirteen patients have returned for routine postoperative evaluation, the follow-up time ranging from 11 to 49 months (mean, 23 months). Noninvasive two-dimensional, pulsed-wave Doppler and color echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging studies demonstrated good anatomical repair and no anastomotic aneurysm formation or residual coarctation of the aorta in any patient after end-to-end anastomosis with polydioxanone. In summary, this intermediate follow-up study has revealed no vascular complications related to the repair of coarctation with absorbable polydioxanone suture. 
A life-threatening sexually transmitted Haemophilus influenzae in septic abortion: a case report. Haemophilus influenzae infections of the genitourinary tract are rare. A case of a life-threatening Haemophilus influenzae bacteremia associated with a septic abortion is presented. Sexual transmission of bacteria after orogenital contact is proposed as a possible source of this uncommon infection. 
Thoracic epidural analgesia in a patient with bilateral phaeochromocytoma undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. A patient suffering from phaeochromocytoma and coronary artery stenoses needed coronary artery bypass grafting before adrenalectomy. High thoracic epidural analgesia (T1-T2) with bupivacaine and sufentanil in combination with general anaesthesia was used. Plasma adrenaline and noradrenaline concentrations decreased during the period before bypass grafting compared to the baseline value and no important haemodynamic changes were seen during this period. Thoracic epidural analgesia failed to suppress the release of catecholamine during the bypass period. After the operation, the plasma catecholamine concentrations returned to the baseline value. Excellent analgesia (visual analogue scale = 1-2) was achieved with a postoperative epidural, but the plasma catecholamine concentration increased considerably. 
Serum and tissue alpha-L-fucosidase activity in the pre-clinical and clinical stages of hepatocellular carcinoma. 1. To assess the value of serum alpha-L-fucosidase (EC 3.2.1.51) as a marker for hepatocellular carcinoma, the activity was measured in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and in control subjects. 2. Mean serum alpha-L-fucosidase activity was significantly greater in 35 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (225 +/- 69 nkat/l) than in 35 patients with cirrhosis and 20 normal subjects (134 +/- 30 and 93 +/- 28 nkat/l, respectively). The overlap between hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis, however, was such as to severely limit any value of the enzyme as a diagnostic test. 3. In four cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, an increased enzyme activity was detectable in samples taken up to 66 months before the tumours were diagnosed clinically. 4. The serum activity of alpha-L-fucosidase fell to within the reference range after liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma in three patients and in one of these a subsequent rise was associated with tumour recurrence which was diagnosed at 8 months after the rise in activity. Ineffective cytotoxic chemotherapy was also associated with a progressive rise in serum alpha-L-fucosidase activity. 5. alpha-L-fucosidase activity in tumour tissue was significantly lower than that seen in non-tumour tissue from cirrhotic patients. These reductions may represent increased transport from the tissue and may partly account for the increased serum activity found in some patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Generalized pustular psoriasis. A review of 63 cases. BACKGROUND--Sixty-three patients with generalized pustular psoriasis were hospitalized during a 29-year period. They were classified into four subgroups on the basis of onset and morphologic pattern of disease: acute (von Zumbusch), subacute annular, chronic (acral), and mixed. This division provides a better understanding of the variability of the disease and helps in choosing treatment. OBSERVATIONS--The average age at onset was 50 years; male and female patients were affected about equally. In 11 patients, flares were precipitated by localized infections. Approximately one fourth of the patients had complications; most were superinfections. The average stay in the hospital was 30 days; factors correlating with a long hospitalization were hypocalcemia, female sex, and a previous history of psoriasis vulgaris or pustular psoriasis. CONCLUSIONS--Whereas topical therapy was helpful, systemic medications were often needed. Coal tar, ultraviolet light, and psoralen-ultraviolet A may be effective; however, they must be used with caution, because they may exacerbate the disease. 
Cardiovascular reflexes and autonomic dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. Cardiovascular reflexes were analysed in a group of 20 patients suffering from Parkinson's disease and in 12 age-matched healthy subjects, in order to ascertain the incidence and degree of autonomic dysfunction. The following were measured: heart rate variation during normal breathing, postural change (30/15 ratio) and during the Valsalva manoeuvre: blood pressure variation after standing. These measurements were taken at least 12 h after therapy had been withdrawn and were repeated after therapy had been resumed. Significant changes in the different heart rate variation indices were found in the parkinsonian patients which correlated with the duration and severity of the extrapyramidal symptomatology. After standing the patients showed a significant drop in blood pressure, when compared respectively with their base values and with the response in controls. Anticholinergic drugs had no significant effect on the heart rate variation indices, whereas antiparkinsonian therapy seems to have contributed to the drop in blood pressure after standing. 
Transformation suppressor activity of a Jun transcription factor lacking its activation domain. The oncoprotein c-Jun is thought to be a mediator of ras transformation as both its synthesis and activity as a transcription factor are stimulated by ras expression. But c-Jun co-operates with ras in transformation assays, suggesting that they act along different pathways (reviewed in ref. 4). Here we show by means of a dominant-negative mutated transcription factor that c-Jun potentially in conjunction with other factors that interact with it is necessary for transformation by ras. The mutant Jun lacks an activation domain and blocks stimulation of transcription by several oncoproteins, including Ras, v-Src, polyoma middle T, c-Jun and c-Fos, as well as by the tumour promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). The inhibition is specific for motifs that bind Jun: activation of an NF-kappa B/Rel motif is not affected. This Jun mutant acts as an anti-oncogene in ras-transformed cells, generating non-transformed revertants that have acquired anchorage and density-dependent growth, as well as reduced tumorigenicity in vivo. Mutants of other transcription factors designed to inhibit transformation will enable us to study their role in signal transduction. 
Plasticity of central motor pathways in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy. To obtain neurophysiologic evidence for a reorganization of central motor pathways in children who had suffered a cerebral lesion at birth, we performed cross-correlation analyses of multiunit EMG recordings obtained from children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy and marked mirror movements. We found that the motoneuron pools of homologous left and right hand muscles received common synaptic input from abnormally branched presynaptic axons. The results of electromagnetic brain stimulation, cutaneomuscular, and tendon reflex testing suggested that these common inputs are provided by abnormally branched corticospinal tract fibers whose origin is the undamaged motor cortex. 
Complex segregation analysis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma in Chinese families: interaction of inherited susceptibility and hepatitis B viral infection. Primary hepatocellular carcinoma (PHC) is extremely common in eastern China, where it is both associated with chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and often familial. Complex segregation analysis of 490 extended families was undertaken with liability classes defined by age, sex, and HBV infection status. The maximum-likelihood model suggests that a recessive allele with population frequency approximately .25 yields lifetime risk of PHC, in the presence of both HBV infection and genetic susceptibility, of .84 for males and .46 for females. The model further predicts that, in the absence of genetic susceptibility, lifetime risk of PHC is .09 for HBV-infected males and .01 for HBV-infected females and that, regardless of genotype, it is virtually zero for uninfected persons. Complex segregation analysis therefore provides evidence for the interaction of genotype, environmental exposure, sex and age in determining the occurrence of PHC in this population. 
Biomagnetic localization of ventricular arrhythmias. The magnetic fields caused by electrical activity of the human heart can be coherently measured with a highly sensitive, multichannel, superconducting quantum interference-device system and can enable noninvasive localization of the underlying electrical activity. The magnetocardiograms (MCGs) of 10 patients with spontaneous premature ventricular complexes (PVCs), three patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT), and four healthy subjects with induced paced beats were recorded for 2-15 minutes. After correction for superimposed repolarization activity, the site of origin of the arrhythmias was localized from the magnetic field distribution at the onset of the ectopic beats. The localization results of paced beats showed an error of a few millimeters in relation to the position of the catheter tip. The results of spontaneous PVC and VT were confirmed with endocardial mapping or associated with ischemic lesions. The authors conclude that multichannel magnetocardiographic studies enable the completely noninvasive localization of ventricular arrhythmias. 
Intraperitoneal contrast material improves the CT detection of peritoneal metastases. The preoperative detection of peritoneal metastases from gynecologic malignancies is difficult; in particular, CT often fails to detect peritoneal implants. This study was designed to determine if the administration of intraperitoneal iodinated contrast media would increase the CT detection of such peritoneal metastases. Prospectively, both standard and intraperitoneal contrast-enhanced CT studies of the abdomen and pelvis were performed in 16 patients with suspected gynecologic tumors. All patients then underwent operative staging, with the location and number of metastases documented. The intraperitoneal enhanced CT studies were more sensitive in the detection of peritoneal metastases than standard CT examinations. Whereas routine CT detected peritoneal metastases in seven (64%) of 11 patients with surgically proved implants, the intraperitoneal enhanced CT studies detected peritoneal metastases in all 11 patients. Depending on the specific intraperitoneal compartments involved, the sensitivity of intraperitoneal enhanced CT in the detection of peritoneal metastases was two- to fourfold greater than that of standard CT examinations. Our results suggest that intraperitoneal enhanced CT is superior to standard CT in the detection of peritoneal metastases. 
Abscesses of the neck in infants and young children. A review of 112 cases. A review of 112 patients 5 years of age and younger with cervical abscesses is reported. Staphylococcus aureus and group A beta-hemolytic Streptococcus were cultured most often: in 39% and 17% of patients, respectively. Sixteen patients (14%) had unusual abscesses such as infected congenital cysts, cat-scratch disease, or myocobacterial abscesses. One patient had a necrotizing infection with group A streptococci and anaerobic streptococci. Intravenous antibiotic therapy was used in 104 patients, with 94% of these patients receiving a penicillin derivative, usually an antistaphylococcal penicillin. Ninety-six percent of the patients had incision and drainage of their abscesses; 8 patients required more than one incision and drainage. Two patients required airway intervention, 1 by intubation and 1 by trachetomy. Most pediatric cervical abscesses respond well to appropriate intravenous antibiotic therapy and incision and drainage. 
Effects of EAP follow-up on prevention of relapse among substance abuse clients. Clients entering an employee assistance program (EAP) of a large manufacturing plant in 1985 who were assessed as having an alcohol or drug abuse problem (N = 325) were randomized into an experimental "special follow-up" group and a control "regular care" group. The regular care group received follow-up only as needed (following the usual practice of the EAP), while a follow-up counselor was hired to make routine contacts with the special follow-up group. Study intake continued through 1985, and follow-up continued through the end of 1986. Data collected on study subjects included EAP participation data, absenteeism, number of hospitalizations, health care claims paid and disability claims paid. The major study hypothesis was that EAP clients randomly allocated to special follow-up would show better results than regular care clients (i.e., would have fewer relapses, better job attendance and lower health benefit utilization during the follow-up year). The follow-up intervention was incompletely implemented due to a variety of organizational problems. Differences between the two groups on the six outcome measures were not statistically significant, although clients in the special follow-up group did show better results than clients in the regular care group on the three measures related to substance abuse. Differences on these three measures were marginally significant in regression analyses after controlling for the effects of number of follow-up visits, age, race and chronicity. 
Naloxone-sensitive, pregnancy-induced changes in behavioral responses to colorectal distention: pregnancy-induced analgesia to visceral stimulation. This study examined the feasibility of using colorectal distention as a noxious visceral stimulus in rat pregnancy-induced analgesia studies as well as the influence of naloxone on the pregnancy-induced changes in the behavioral response to a noxious visceral stimulus. In the first part of the study, we compared the effects of pregnancy on several forms of noxious stimulation (colorectal distention, hypertonic saline induced writhing, tail flick, and hot plate). After determination of prepregnant baseline values, one group of rats (n = 35) was mated and retested on days 7 and 21 of gestation and 1, 3, 5, 7, and 14 days after parturition. After baseline determinations on day 21 and postpartum day 1, the animals received a subcutaneous injection of naloxone 1.0 mg/kg and were retested. A nonpregnant control group of animals (n = 7) was tested in the same manner. On day 21 of gestation and postpartum days 1 and 3, significant changes (higher threshold or longer latency to response) were observed after all but the writhing test. High-dose naloxone (1.0 mg/kg) significantly reduced the increases observed on day 21 and post-partum day 1. Nonpregnant rats demonstrated no significant change on any test day. The second part of the study evaluated a possible influence of low-dose naloxone on pregnancy-induced analgesia to visceral stimulation (colorectal distention) in another group of pregnant rats (n = 44). The significant increase in threshold on day 21 of gestation was not changed by intravenous (i.v.) naloxone 1.0, 2.3, or 3.0 micrograms/kg, whereas 5.0 and 20.0 micrograms/kg naloxone significantly decreased the observed pregnancy-induced analgesia. 
Treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia in a renal allograft recipient: implications of cyclosporin immunosuppressive treatment. The clinical effects of cyclosporin were evaluated during cytotoxic treatment in a 61 year old man with acute myeloid leukaemia. He had required a renal transplant 18 months before presenting with acute myeloid leukaemia (FAB subtype M4). He had received cyclosporin 3.5-4.0 mg/kg daily to maintain a plasma cyclosporin concentration of 75-150 ng/ml. Cyclosporin was continued during induction chemotherapy with daunorubicin, cytarabine, and 6-thioguanine (DAT). He had fever and oropharyngeal candidiasis that was unresponsive to anti-bacterial drugs but responsive to systemic amphotericin. Bone marrow examination 14 days after chemotherapy showed complete haematological remission. Subsequently he tolerated consolidation treatment with DAT with no serious complications. Unfortunately he developed fatal septicaemia following a second consolidation with mitozantrone and cytarabine. Inhibition of P-glycoprotein activity by cyclosporin may not significantly increase the toxicity of aggressive chemotherapeutic regimens, and as benefit may be achieved by this approach further clinical evaluation is justified. 
Renal transplant arterial thrombosis: association with cyclosporine. Of 136 patients who received a renal transplant between January 1984 and August 1988, there were six cases (4.4%) of allograft arterial thrombosis (AAT) occurring a mean of 23 days after transplantation. All were maintained on cyclosporine A(CsA) in addition to prednisone and azathioprine. All transplants were performed by the same transplant surgeon. Five of the six episodes (83%) were in allografts that had multiple renal arteries (MRA), giving an incidence of AAT in that group of 36%. Only one of 122 (0.8%) allografts with a single renal artery experienced thrombosis. CsA was started a mean of 9 days after transplantation (range, 16 to 33 days). There was no correlation of AAT to CsA levels. AAT appears to be an early complication of allografts with MRA in patients maintained on CsA. 
Phase I-II study of advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma patients treated with recombinant human interferon gamma. The association of immunodeficiency with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma has generated the concept of supplying immunologically active agents as a means of treating these cancers. One of the most active immunologic messengers is interferon gamma, which has been observed in our laboratories to also have a direct cytotoxic effect on cultures of squamous cell carcinoma derived from the head and neck. To test the feasibility of treating patients with advanced but resectable head and neck cancer with this agent, we designed a phase I-II trial of recombinant human interferon gamma using a 24-hour infusion repeated weekly for four times. In this study, both tumor and immunologic parameters were studied before and after treatment. Eight patients were entered into the study with the highest recombinant human interferon gamma dose attempted being 0.25 mg/m2 per 24 hours. Minimal side effects were observed. Three patients had clinically measurable responses, four had stabilization of disease, and one had progression while receiving treatment. Histopathologic results of treatment were similar to in vitro observations. Necrosis, as well as differentiation of tumor cells, was observed. In some tumors there was a marked decrease in cellularity without a change in tumor volume due to increased extracellular keratin deposition. Our study indicates that evaluation of adoptive immunotherapy trials in head and neck cancer needs to include parameters other than simple tumor regression as an end point, otherwise therapeutically important lymphokine-induced changes may be missed. Further evaluation of recombinant human interferon gamma and agents that induce human interferon gamma are warranted. 
Incremental prognostic accuracy of clinical, radionuclide and hemodynamic data in acute myocardial infarction. A logical sequence of testing in evaluating prognosis early in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) would be to use clinical data first, then add noninvasive data and finally add invasive data. The incremental prognostic information concerning 1-year survival obtained from such a sequence in 107 patients with AMI was studied using logistic regression and receiver-operating characteristic curves. Cardiac mortality was 24% at 1 year. Clinical data obtained soon after admission (prior myocardial infarction, heart rate, blood pressure, age) were 78 +/- 5% accurate in the prediction of 1-year survival. The addition of radionuclide-estimated left ventricular ejection fraction or invasive hemodynamic data to the clinical model at this time improved prognostic accuracy to 84 +/- 5% (p = 0.05) and 87 +/- 4% (p = 0.007), respectively. The further addition of invasive data to the model containing clinical and left ventricular ejection fraction data provided a further increment in prognostic accuracy to 89 +/- 4%, whereas no significant increase in accuracy was seen on addition of left ventricular ejection fraction to the model containing clinical and invasive data. It is concluded that clinical data provide important prognostic information concerning late survival early in the course of AMI. This may be improved by the logical application of noninvasive and invasive studies at this time. 
Dietary manipulation of methotrexate-induced enterocolitis. Administration of chemotherapy is limited by host toxicity, which is often manifested by severe enterocolitis. This study evaluated the effects of a liquid, elemental, chemically defined diet (ED) supplemented with 2% glutamine (Glu-ED) compared with a polypeptide diet (PPD) on the morbidity and mortality after methotrexate (MTX) administration. Fischer 344 rats (n = 80) were fed either a regular rat chow diet (RD), a 2% glycine supplemented elemental diet (Gly-ED), a 2% glutamine-supplemented elemental diet (GLU-ED), and a glycine-supplemented polypeptide diet(Gly-PPD) for 7 days prior to administration of MTX (20 mg/kg, ip). After 72 hours, eight rats per group were killed; portal vein and vena cava blood, mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), liver, small intestine, and cecum were sampled for bacterial culture. Remaining animals were followed to calculate survival. One hundred percent of the Gly-PPD and 25% of the Glu-ED animals survived compared with 0% of the Gly-ED animals. Our data showed that ED resulted in an increased quantity of intestinal Gram-negative bacteria and diminished intestinal mucosal height and mucosal DNA/protein content. The polypeptide diet prevented intestinal mucosal atrophy, avoided MTX-induced enterocolitis and significantly improved animal survival compared with an elemental diet with or without glutamine supplementation. 
Contribution of regional vascular responses to whole body autoregulation in conscious areflexic rats. We designed studies to evaluate the autoregulation response during volume expansion in three major circulation regions (intestine, kidney, and hind limb) during simultaneous determination of whole body autoregulation in conscious areflexic rats. Cardiac output was measured with chronically implanted electromagnetic flow probes on the ascending aorta. Regional blood flow velocity was measured with pulsed Doppler flow probes on the superior mesenteric (n = 7), left renal (n = 7), and right iliac (n = 7) arteries. Doppler flow probes were calibrated in situ in each rat to determine regional blood flow values. Neurohumoral reflex control of pressure was removed pharmacologically, and blood pressure and cardiac output were returned to resting control values with intravenous norepinephrine infusion, which was maintained at that constant level throughout the study. Hemodynamic changes were measured in response to blood volume expansion with infusion of 0.9 ml blood over 6 minutes. This small change in blood volume resulted in significant increases in vascular resistance of 15% in the whole body, 8% in the intestine, 18% in the kidney, and 15% in the hind limb. The pressure-flow slope, used as an index of autoregulation (slope = 0, perfect autoregulation; slope = 1, rigid vasculature), averaged 0.34 in the whole body, 0.52 in the intestine, 0.19 in the kidney, and 0.39 in the hind limb. When compared with the whole body, blood flow autoregulation was less in the intestine, greater in the kidney, and the same in the hind limb. 
MRI in cerebral toxocaral disease. Toxocara canis, the common roundworm in the dog, can cause "visceral larva migrans" syndrome in humans, which may include generalised illness, eosinophilia, and symptoms arising from larval invasion of different organs. Of these, the clinically most important are liver, lungs, eyes and CNS. Involvement of the different parts of the CNS in human toxocaral disease has been described, but not the CT or MRI appearances of the cerebral lesions. In one case with a single focal epileptic fit, CT was described as normal. In the Toxocara canis case described, the cerebral lesions on MRI, before and after therapy, are shown. 
Treatment of hypertensive urgencies with oral nifedipine, nicardipine, and captopril. Sixty-five patients with uncomplicated hypertensive urgencies were treated in the emergency and cardiology departments with 20 mg nifedipine, 20 mg nicardipine, or 25 mg captopril in a randomized study. The study population consisted of 65 patients ranging in age from forty-one to seventy-one. Blood pressure and heart rate were assessed for six hours after intake of the antihypertensive agents. Within sixty minutes nifedipine reduced blood pressure by an average of 74.7 mmHg for the systolic and 35.4 mmHg for the diastolic. Average heart rate increased significantly by 11.6 beats/min at within thirty minutes. Nicardipine and captopril produced equivalent falls in systolic (-81.6 and -79.4 mmHg) and diastolic (-37.3 and -33 mmHg) blood pressure respectively, but did not increase heart rate significantly. The antihypertensive effect of each drug was maintained until six hours after medication. In conclusion, nifedipine, nicardipine, and captopril show similar efficacy in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies. The authors believe that these drugs can be used as first-line therapy in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies safely and effectively. 
Emergency department stabilization of pediatric patients with bacterial meningitis. Current advances. The infant or child who presents to the Emergency Department with bacterial meningitis may have nonspecific vague symptoms with few signs of serious illness. However, the disease is often rapidly progressive and life-threatening, and may be associated with respiratory failure, circulatory failure, increased intracranial pressure, disseminated intravascular coagulation, or convulsions, any of which may lead to a fatal outcome. It is important for the triage technician in an Emergency Department to cautiously inspect each young patient who presents with illness, carefully considering whether the presenting syndrome of symptoms and signs might be consistent with early meningitis. If the young patient is triaged in a nonemergent category, then periodic assessments of the patients waiting to be seen may ensure that, when the infant or child with an obscure presentation develops evidence suggesting this diagnosis, the triage technician will promptly notify the appropriate definitive care providers who assume responsibility for immediate definitive evaluation and stabilization. Changes in delivery of lifesaving care to the life-threatened child are being impacted by current advances in the understanding of the biochemical basis of disease at the cellular and subcellular levels. Endotoxin release into the blood causes increased production of kinins, which results in vasodilatation and increased vascular permeability. Members of the leukotriene family may also enhance vascular permeability as well as produce augmented leukocyte aggregation to vascular endothelium, vasoconstriction, and bronchoconstriction. Endotoxin activates the complement cascade and induces platelets to form reversible aggregates that may be trapped in the pulmonary microcirculation; and endotoxemia-activated platelets release serotonin, which may be associated with pulmonary hypertension. Now that we have antibiotics that are effective against organisms whose degradation produces endotoxin, there is interest in lessening the host inflammatory response to endotoxin through use of dexamethasone as an anti-inflammatory agent. Clinical trials have revealed that patients who received dexamethasone became afebrile earlier and were less likely to acquire deafness after bacterial meningitis. Because administration of antibiotics is the current specific medical therapy for this life-threatening microbial invasion, it is reasonable to continue to strive to shorten the interval between recognition of disease and specific therapy. However, new studies suggest that consequences of the complex host inflammatory response (at the cellular and subcellular level) to microbial invasion and endotoxin release from bacterial degradation are increasingly important in determining survival or severity of morbidity. Therapeutic intervention with specific antibiotics and steroid anti-inflammatory agents for modulating host responses enhances outcome. 
A short plasma exchange protocol is effective in severe myasthenia gravis. Plasma exchange has been reported to be a successful therapeutic procedure for the treatment of severely compromised myasthenic patients, but the optimal regimen in terms of costs or clinical benefit has not so far been determined. We have investigated the efficacy of a short plasmapheresis protocol of two exchanges 1 day apart in a series of 70 patients with severe forms of myasthenia gravis. Patients were evaluated before and 7 days after the first exchange. A positive outcome was observed in 70% of the plasma exchange cycles performed. Disease severity did not seem to be a negative prognostic factor for the efficacy of this short protocol, which was well tolerated by patients. In only 1 case were major side-effects observed. In spite of its short duration, the exchange treatment plus concomitant immunosuppressive drug therapy was not followed by early clinical deterioration. 
Visceral leishmaniasis: a difficult diagnosis and unusual causative agent. In a young man who had a prolonged fever of unknown origin, hepatosplenomegaly, and progressive pancytopenia, stained smears, blood-agar cultures of bone marrow, and serologic testing for antileishmanial antibodies were negative. Biopsies from liver and bone marrow were uninformative. Visceral leishmaniasis was diagnosed only after splenectomy, when amastigotes were finally cultured from the spleen. The parasite was shown to be an unusual leishmanial parasite, possessing a mixture of intrinsic biochemical and serologic characteristics displayed independently by Leishmania tropica and Leishmania donovani sensu lato, the latter being the usual cause of visceral leishmaniasis. After splenectomy, parasites were also demonstrated in stained bone marrow aspirate smears. Recovery was uneventful after treatment with antimony for 28 days. Visceral leishmaniasis can be a cause of fever of unknown origin and should be considered in its differential diagnosis in endemic areas. 
Ultrasonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Ultrasonography with graded compression was performed in 525 patients with clinical signs of acute appendicitis. Of 207 patients with surgically proven appendicitis the inflamed appendix (diameter greater than or equal to 6 mm) had been visualized sonographically in 177 (86 per cent). The score for non-perforated appendicitis (91 per cent) was higher than for perforated appendicitis (55 per cent). Twenty-four patients in whom an inflamed appendix was seen on ultrasonography did not undergo surgery because of rapidly subsiding symptoms ('abortive appendicitis'). Four of these 24 developed recurrent appendicitis warranting surgery. Two underwent elective appendectomy and 18 have remained symptom-free. Of 155 patients with a subsequently confirmed alternative condition, ultrasonography made the correct diagnosis in 140: bacterial ileocaecitis (69), mesenteric lymphadenitis (eight), gynaecological conditions (34), urological conditions (eight), caecal diverticulitis (six), perforated peptic ulcer (six), Crohn's disease (two) and miscellaneous conditions (seven). Of 139 patients in whom no definite diagnosis was made ultrasonography showed no abnormalities in 138. In four patients a false positive sonographic diagnosis of appendicitis was made and in two patients with appendicitis an alternative condition was incorrectly diagnosed. During the last 3 years of the study the negative appendicectomy rate was 7 per cent and delay beyond 6 h after admission occurred in only 2 per cent of patients with surgically proven appendicitis. When used to complement the clinical diagnosis ultrasonography improves the diagnostic accuracy and patient management in those suspected of having acute appendicitis. 
Proportionate mortality trends: 1950 through 1986 Mortality trends in the United States from 1950 through 1986 were analyzed for the conditions that are or have recently been among the six leading causes of death. The age-adjusted mortality rate for all causes has decreased from 841.5 to 541.7 per 100,000 population. Cause-specific, age-adjusted mortality rates have declined from 1950 through 1986 for cerebrovascular disease, injuries, perinatal conditions, heart disease, and influenza and pneumonia. Time trends in the proportion of persons dying of each of these diseases, however, have varied; the proportion dying of cerebrovascular disease, injuries, and perinatal conditions has decreased, and the proportion of persons dying of heart disease and influenza and pneumonia has remained fairly stable from 1950 through 1986. During this same time, age-adjusted death rates have increased for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and have remained fairly stable for malignant neoplasms, while the proportions of persons dying of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and malignant neoplasms have increased dramatically. For people aged 35 to 64 years, malignant neoplasms have now overtaken heart disease as the leading cause of death. For those aged 65 years and older, heart disease remains the leading cause of death, accounting for almost 50% of all deaths in persons 85 years and older. 
Postsepsis bradycardia in children with leukemia. OBJECTIVE: We observed sinus bradycardia in a small number of children with hematologic malignancies who were recovering from sepsis. Our objective was to define this symptom complex and attempt to delineate its etiology. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review. SETTING: A pediatric ICU in a children's oncology hospital. PATIENTS: Children admitted to the ICU over a 24-month period who developed persistent bradycardia (heart rate less than 5% for age for greater than 1 hr) after an episode of sepsis. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Seven children developed postsepsis bradycardia. Six patients had a primary diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukemia and one patient had acute lymphocytic leukemia. All patients had positive blood cultures (Streptococcus mitis, n = 4; Escherichia coli, n = 2; and Klebsiella pneumoniae, n = 1). All seven children were clinically recovering from sepsis when the bradycardia developed. Neither hypotension nor other symptom was associated with the bradycardia. No therapy was given for the bradycardia. Echocardiograms and ECGs were normal in all patients, except for the presence of bradycardia. Bradycardia persisted for 24 to 72 hrs. After that time, heart rates slowly increased to the normal range for age. CONCLUSIONS: We speculate that this syndrome may result from alterations in beta-adrenergic receptor function or an unidentified humoral factor produced by the invading organism or as part of the host's response to sepsis. Prior drug therapy or the underlying illness may predispose to this condition, since all the patients had acute leukemia. As the bradycardia was clinically insignificant, invasive therapeutic or diagnostic strategies were not indicated. 
The use of an intraluminal shunt for bypass grafts of the cavernous internal carotid artery. Technical note. The authors describe an indwelling intraluminal shunt for use during graft bypass procedures of the cavernous internal carotid artery. The clinical use of this shunt in a patient with meningioma invading the right cavernous sinus is described. This shunt has also been found applicable during carotid endarterectomy, and should prove to be a useful addition to the neurosurgical armamentarium for skull-base surgery. 
Exaggerated and prolonged thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH) test responses in tertiary hypothyroidism. A 60 year old man with panhypopituitarism due to a large meningioma and prolonged and exaggerated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) responses is described. Initial investigations showed a subnormal urinary free cortisol concentration, a low serum cortisol taken at 0900 hours, and a low free T4 concentration. The TSH was towards the upper end of the normal range. Subsequently pituitary function tests showed subnormal production of luteinising hormone in response to luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) and a short synacthen test with a low 30 minute cortisol value. Long synacthen testing showed a normal response at four days, confirming that the abnormalities were due to a pituitary or hypothalamic cause. A computed tomogram showed a large meningioma compressing the hypothalamus, pituitary, and temporal lobe. TRH testing showed a prolonged and exaggerated response, consistent with tertiary hypothyroidism. 
High energy neutron treatment for pelvic cancers: study stopped because of increased mortality. OBJECTIVE--To compare high energy fast neutron treatment with conventional megavoltage x ray treatment in the management of locally advanced pelvic carcinomas (of the cervix, bladder, prostate, and rectum). DESIGN--Randomised study from February 1986; randomisation to neutron treatment or photon treatment was unstratified and in the ratio of 3 to 1 until January 1988, when randomisation was in the ratio 1 to 1 and stratified by site of tumour. SETTING--Mersey regional radiotherapy centre at Clatterbridge Hospital, Wirral. PATIENTS--151 patients with locally advanced, non-metastatic pelvic cancer (27 cervical, 69 of the bladder, seven prostatic, and 48 of the rectum). INTERVENTION--Randomisation to neutron treatment was stopped in February 1990. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Patient survival and causes of death in relation to the development of metastatic disease and treatment related morbidity. RESULTS--In the first phase of the trial 42 patients were randomised to neutron treatment and 14 to photon treatment, and in the second phase 48 to neutron treatment and 47 to photon treatment. The relative risk of mortality for photons compared with neutrons was 0.66 (95% confidence interval 0.40 to 1.10) after adjustment for site of tumour and other important prognostic factors. Short term and long term complications were similar in both groups. CONCLUSIONS--The trial was stopped because of the increased mortality in patients with cancer of the cervix, bladder, or rectum treated with neutrons. 
Cardiovascular evaluation in blunt thoracic trauma using transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Blunt chest trauma can result in significant cardiothoracic injury, which can include cardiac contusion, aortic injury, and myocardial valvular injury. Nineteen patients with no prior history of cardiac abnormalities who sustained severe blunt chest trauma and had widening of the mediastinum on chest radiographs were prospectively evaluated using transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). In each instance TEE was performed without difficulty, excellent images were obtained of the aorta and heart, and no complications were noted. Abnormalities were seen in 12 (63%) patients, with hypokinetic regional wall motion consistent with cardiac contusion demonstrated in five (26%) patients. Tricuspid regurgitation was found in three (16%) patients, and aortic and mitral regurgitation in one (5%) patient each. Aortic wall hematomas were seen in two patients, one of whom had an intimal tear on aortography, and a pericardial effusion was seen in one patient with an aortic intimal tear confirmed angiographically. Thus TEE can be performed safely in the acute setting of patients sustaining severe blunt chest trauma and yield useful information with respect to cardiovascular function and the aorta. 
Treatment of voiding complaints and incontinence in painful bladder syndrome. The treatment of voiding complaints and incontinence in painful bladder syndrome requires careful attention to detail. As the exact nature of these conditions is unknown, no single modality is effective, and multiple treatments may be required. A sympathetic and supportive physician is necessary in all these cases. 
Listeriosis in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus. Although resistance to Listeria monocytogenes infection requires intact T cell-mediated immunity, only 20 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and listeriosis (including one patient described herein) have been reported to date. Listeriosis developed before AIDS in five cases. Syndromes included meningitis in nine cases, bacteremia in nine, brain abscess in one, and endocarditis in one. Eighteen patients were treated with ampicillin, penicillin, or amoxicillin with or without aminoglycosides. Clinical and microbiologic responses were obtained in one patient with bacteremia treated with vancomycin and in one patient with meningitis treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Three of the nine patients with meningitis died, as did the patient with brain abscess. All nine patients with bacteremia and the patient with endocarditis survived. No case of relapse was documented. L. monocytogenes, although uncommon, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of febrile illness, meningitis, and brain abscess in patients with HIV infection. 
Management of hypertensive crises. The availability of potent antihypertensive drugs that will decrease markedly elevated blood pressure within minutes to hours has changed the concepts of definition and therapy of hypertensive emergencies and urgencies. Intravenous infusion of sodium nitroprusside can be used in the truly emergent situation and is effective, reliable, and safe. While oral therapy is more convenient, it is not as consistently effective as parenteral administration and can lead to excessive reductions in blood pressure that are more difficult to manage than when short-acting agents are given intravenously. 
Postmortem studies of the heart in three fatal cases of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To examine the hearts of individuals who died from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan, with particular attention paid to the coronary arteries, the neural structures, and the conduction system of the heart because of reported terminal disturbances of cardiac rhythm and conduction. STUDY MATERIAL: Three hearts fixed in neutral formalin and well preserved with all the relevant areas of conduction system intact. METHODS: Light microscopic examination of subserial sections of the sinus node, atrioventricular node and His bundle, coronary chemoreceptor and regional nerves, ganglia, and small coronary arteries. Routine stains used were Goldner trichrome and Verhoeff-van Gieson. RESULTS: Arterial abnormalities were numerous and primarily of two types: focal fibromuscular dysplasia causing moderate to severe narrowing, as well as endarteritis and panarteritis. Extensive examples of neuritis and ganglionitis were present throughout the heart, including the conduction system, where arterial abnormalities were also abundant. In the coronary chemoreceptor there were both old and new lesions comprising focal inflammation with degeneration as well as older areas of fibrotic destruction. Within the sinus node, areas of dense fibrosis replaced all nodal tissue. These abnormalities were similar in nature and extent in all three hearts. CONCLUSIONS: The pathologic lesions present in the coronary arteries, neural structures, and conduction system of the heart in patients who died from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome provide a suitable anatomic substrate for substantial cardiac electrical instability, including the occurrence of sudden death. In cases of unexplained cardiac electrical instability or sudden unexpected death an inquiry should be made about previous use of L-tryptophan. In patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, the possibility of cardiac electrical instability should be considered as part of long-range clinical management. 
The use of an intraluminal shunt for bypass grafts of the cavernous internal carotid artery. Technical note. The authors describe an indwelling intraluminal shunt for use during graft bypass procedures of the cavernous internal carotid artery. The clinical use of this shunt in a patient with meningioma invading the right cavernous sinus is described. This shunt has also been found applicable during carotid endarterectomy, and should prove to be a useful addition to the neurosurgical armamentarium for skull-base surgery. 
Contemporary management of neurofibromatosis. The neurofibromatoses are two distinct entities with different genetic origins. The phenotypic expressions and required treatments are different. The devastating nature of neurofibromatosis-2 may be more effectively controlled through the application of advanced imaging techniques and contemporary neurotologic procedures. The most common manifestation of neurofibromatosis-2 is that of bilateral acoustic neuromas. The eventual total bilateral sensorineural deafness associated with this condition can be obviated in selected cases if the diagnosis is established early. Follow-up data are reported for three patients in whom hearing was preserved in at least one ear. When removal with hearing preservation is not possible, subtotal tumor removal with decompression of the internal auditory canals may delay progression of hearing loss. A new approach to tumors of the pterygomaxillary fossa that have extended to the middle cranial fossa has been successfully applied and is described. 
Sex cord tumor with annular tubules associated with endometriosis of the fallopian tube. Sex cord tumor with annular tubules (SCTAT) is a distinctive ovarian sex cord-stromal tumor. The authors describe a case of SCTAT arising outside the ovaries, in the fallopian tube. The authors are aware of only one other case of extra-ovarian SCTAT, in an umbilical hernia sac in an adult woman. The case reported was an incidental finding in a hysterectomy specimen, obtained because of carcinoma in situ of the uterine cervix in a 32-year-old woman. The patient is alive and disease-free two years after surgery. The 1-cm tumor in the right fallopian tube was composed of typical ring-shaped tubules encircling hyalinized basement membrane-like material. In addition, glands and stroma of endometriosis were intimately admixed with the nests of tumor. The implications of these findings for the origin of SCTAT and ovarian sex cord structures are discussed. 
Clinical features and circulating gonadotropin, insulin, and androgen interactions in women with polycystic ovarian disease. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the interactions of hyperinsulinemia and inappropriate gonadotropin secretion in women with polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD). DESIGN: Comparative study of endocrinologic parameters in subjects with PCOD. SETTING: Open patient clinic of reproductive endocrinology at University Central Hospital of Turku, Finland. PATIENTS: Fourteen nonobese and 10 obese patients with PCOD. Seven healthy women for reference data collection. Normal thyroid function, serum prolactin concentration, normal diurnal cortisol variation, euglycemia in all subjects. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Serum concentrations of insulin, testosterone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, sex hormone-binding globulin, immunoreactive luteinizing hormone (LH), bioactive LH, and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). RESULTS: The concentration of insulin was higher and that of bioactive LH was lower in obese than in nonobese PCOD women in whom the levels were also above the upper reference value. There was a negative correlation between insulin and bioactive LH levels (r = -0.57). Bioactive LH correlated inversely with the body mass index (BMI) (r = -0.50). After eliminating the effect of the BMI, the correlation between bioactive LH and insulin was no longer significant (r = -0.37). The bioactive LH and immunoreactive LH/FSH ratio correlated significantly (r = 0.68). CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that hyperandrogenic women can be divided into two subgroups: those with insulin resistance, normal or minimally elevated LH, and markedly elevated insulin levels; and those with elevated LH levels, no insulin resistance, and normal insulin concentrations. Obesity is associated with the former, and high bioactive LH levels with the latter subgroup. 
Acute respiratory infections. During the past decade, recognition of the significance of pneumonia for childhood mortality has greatly increased. Etiologic studies have clarified the role of Streptococcus pneumoniae and H. influenzae as the pathogens most responsible for childhood pneumonia in developing countries. Case management intervention strategies using community health workers to identify cases of pneumonia by counting respiratory rate and observing chest indrawing have been shown to reduce ARI-related mortality. Although research is underway to develop more effective vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae and non-type b H. influenzae, effective case management will remain the most realistic method of reducing mortality in the next decade. Important gaps remain in our understanding of the pathogenesis, etiology, and epidemiology of acute respiratory infections. Our understanding is complicated by the multiplicity of viral and bacterial agents and their interrelationships, by an abundance of interacting host risk factors, and by diverse social, cultural, and environmental factors. However, sufficient knowledge is available to support the implementation of the WHO case management intervention strategies, which will save the lives of the many children now dying because of pneumonia. 
Sclerotherapy of bleeding esophageal varices using a thrombogenic cocktail. The short- and long-term efficacy of a thrombogenic sclerosant (1% tetradecyl sulfate, thrombin, and cefazolin) was studied in 101 patients. The majority of patients had alcoholic cirrhosis with Child's C classification (84/101). Bleeding was controlled in 94 per cent of patients with the first sclerotherapy. In-hospital and early (within 6 weeks) mortality were 14 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively. There was a strong correlation with hospital mortality and the severity of hepatic disease. Long-term follow-up in 70 patients (mean of 16 months) showed that survival correlated with compliance to follow-up sclerotherapy and abstention from further alcohol intake. Mortality in patients compliant with follow-up was 5 per cent (1/19), as compared with 24 per cent (12/51) in patients who were not compliant with follow-up sclerotherapy. The mortality in alcoholic cirrhotic patients who abstained from further alcoholic intake was 6 per cent (1/17), as compared with 23 per cent (10/44) in those who continued to abuse alcohol. No systemic thrombotic or allergic events related to the use of bovine thrombin were noted during a total of 349 sclerotherapy sessions. 
Compartment syndrome complicating prolonged use of the lithotomy position. Two patients with three postoperative calf compartment syndromes, which followed prolonged lithotomy positioning, will be presented. Potential physiologic mechanisms are described, and a review of current cases in literature are summated. 
Levels of morphine and metabolites in CSF during respiratory depression after intraventricular morphine injection. We report a case of respiratory depression after intracerebroventricular morphine administration of a dose inadvertently 10 times greater than the typical daily dose. At the time of the respiratory dysfunction, the concentrations of morphine and its metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma samples were determined. On comparison of these results with previous clinical studies in which there was no respiratory depression, no relationship was found between the occurrence of respiratory depression and the concentration of morphine or its metabolites in the CSF. The occurrence and characteristics of respiratory depression may be related to the concentrations of morphine and its metabolites in bulbar tissue. 
Vaginal adenosis and clear cell carcinoma after 5-fluorouracil treatment for condylomas. Vaginal adenosis and clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina occurred in a 44-year-old woman after treatment for condylomata acuminata. She had no known exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero. Biopsy-proven vaginal adenosis appeared 8 months after intravaginal 5-fluorouracil application for recurrent urogenital condylomata acuminata. Forty months later, biopsies showed residual adenosis with foci of clear cell adenocarcinoma. Although clear cell adenocarcinoma is associated with vaginal adenosis and cervical ectropion in DES-exposed women, its occurrence in adenosis after 5-fluorouracil therapy has not been reported to the authors' knowledge. In this report, this rare but serious complication of treatment of condylomata acuminata is highlighted, and the literature regarding the development of non-DES-associated vaginal adenosis is discussed. 
Study of brain electrolytes and organic osmolytes during correction of chronic hyponatremia. Implications for the pathogenesis of central pontine myelinolysis. Osmotic injury induced by rapid correction of severe chronic hyponatremia has been implicated in the development of central pontine myelinolysis. Organic osmolytes known previously as "idiogenic osmoles" accumulate intracellularly to protect cells from osmotic injury. We investigated the changes of these organic osmolytes as well as electrolytes in the brain during the induction and correction of chronic hyponatremia. Using 1H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC, we found that in rats with chronic hyponatremia (3 d, serum sodium = 109 +/- 3 meq/liter), brain concentrations of myoinositol (41%), glycerophosphorylcholine (45%), phosphocreatine/creatine (60%), glutamate (53%), glutamine (45%), and taurine (37%) were all significantly decreased compared with control values (percentage control value shown, all P less than 0.01). The contribution of measured organic osmolytes and electrolytes to the total brain osmolality change was 23 and 72%, respectively. With rapid correction by 5% NaCl infusion, significant brain dehydration and elevation of brain Na and Cl levels above the normal range occurred at 24 h. These changes were not seen with slow correction by water deprivation. Reaccumulation of most organic osmolytes except glycerophosphorylcholine is delayed during the correction of hyponatremia and is independent of the correction rate of serum sodium. It is concluded that: most of the change of brain osmolality in chronic hyponatremia can be accounted by the changes in organic osmolytes and brain electrolytes; and rapid correction of hyponatremia is associated with an overshoot of brain sodium and chloride levels along with a low organic osmolyte level. The high cerebral ion concentrations in the absence of adequate concentrations of organic osmolytes may be relevant to the development of central pontine myelinolysis. 
Simulated aggressive skull base erosion in response to benign sinonasal disease. Benign sinonasal masses and slow-growing neoplasms tend to remodel the nasal vault and facial bones, and this is particularly true of nasal polyps and inverted papillomas. However, when such benign masses press against the floor of the anterior cranial fossa and the walls of the sphenoid sinuses, simulated aggressive bone destruction rather than bone remodeling usually occurs. This type of bone destruction implies to the radiologist that a carcinoma may also be present, and this information could dissuade a surgeon from operating with an attempt at cure. In fact, about 90% of the time with inverted papillomas and in virtually all cases of nasal polyposis, no carcinoma is present. The computed tomographic (CT) scans and magnetic resonance images of 14 patients are used to demonstrate these changes. In addition, the CT scans of three patients with malignancies are shown to illustrate the similarity in the bony skull base changes. 
Improved treatment results in boys with overt testicular relapse during or shortly after initial therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A Pediatric Oncology group study. Boys with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who have overt testicular relapse (OTR) during initial continuation chemotherapy or within 6 months thereafter have poor outcomes, with long-term survival similar to patients with marrow relapse during treatment. In April 1983, the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) adopted for these patients an intensive treatment protocol (POG 8303) consisting of a four-drug systemic reinduction (prednisone, vincristine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase), a brief intensive consolidation phase with teniposide and cytarabine, and a 2-year program of continuation chemotherapy with weekly rotating drug pairs (vincristine/cyclophosphamide and teniposide/cytarabine) with or without (by randomization) four-drug reinforcement pulses every 16 weeks. Bilateral testicular radiation (2600 cGy) was administered during reinduction, and intrathecal chemoprophylaxis was given every 4 to 6 weeks. Among 38 eligible study patients with OTR, 5 had prior or concominant extramedullary relapse in other sites. The median duration of complete remission before OTR was 27 months (range, 10 to 42 months). All 38 patients achieved clinical remission after reinduction. Three patients withdrew while in remission, 22 had another relapse (12 marrow, 5 central nervous system (CNS), 2 testicular, 1 retroperitoneal, 1 prostate, and 1 eye), and 13 (34%) remain in complete remission from 32+ to 74+ months after OTR (median, 53+ months). Eighteen patients had their therapy electively discontinued, and five relapses occurred thereafter. These results are superior to those observed in patients with first marrow relapse treated with the same protocol. Approximately one third of patients with OTR treated with POG protocol 8303 exhibit prolonged second remissions with the potential for cure. 
Confirmation of endosonographic detection of external anal sphincter defects by simultaneous electromyographic mapping. Anal endosonography was performed in 13 consecutive patients with post-traumatic faecal incontinence. Thirteen acoustic defects in the external anal sphincter (two hyperechoic, four of mixed echogenicity and seven hypoechoic) were analysed electromyographically by locating under ultrasound guidance the tip of a concentric needle within the defect. The electromyographic activity in this zone was compared with ultrasonically normal muscle. Eleven of 13 sonographic defects showed no electrical activity on electromyography, there was one technical electromyography failure, and one defect was too deep to be reached by the electromyography needle. The electromyographic response was normal in each case within ultrasonically normal muscle. Anal endosonography is recommended as the initial investigation to locate defects, which may be confirmed electromyographically thereby limiting the number of painful needle insertions required for complete mapping of the external anal sphincter. 
Spirochetes in atrophic skin lesions accompanied by minimal host response in a child with Lyme disease. Acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans, which has rarely been observed in the United States, is a late skin manifestation of Lyme borreliosis. A 12-year-old girl who spent summers on Cape Cod presented with a 2-year history of hyperpigmentation and atrophy of the skin on the hands, wrists, and ankles. The skin biopsy specimen of an affected area showed mild dermal fibrosis, a few inflammatory cells, and spirochetes morphologically compatible with Borrelia burgdorferi. An IgG antibody response to B. burgdorferi could be elicited by immunoblotting, but not by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We conclude that this patient had chronic Lyme borreliosis manifested only by indolent infection of the skin. 
Deletional switch recombination occurs in interleukin-4-induced isotype switching to IgE expression by human B cells. There is controversy as to whether deletional rearrangement occurs between the IgM and IgE switch regions (S mu and S epsilon, respectively) during switching to the IgE isotype. We have addressed the issue by stimulating normal human B cells, sorted for lack of expression of surface IgE, to produce IgE by infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in the presence of interleukin 4 (IL-4). Genomic DNA was amplified for S mu/S epsilon switch junction fragments by utilizing the nested-primer polymerase chain reaction. Switch junction fragments were amplified from B cells infected with EBV in the presence of IL-4 but not from B cells infected with EBV alone. The DNA sequence of these "switch fragments" revealed direct joining of S mu to S epsilon in each case. The recombination sites within S mu were clustered within 900 base pairs at the 5' end of the switch region, suggesting that there are "hot spots" for recombination within S mu. The S epsilon recombination sites were scattered throughout the S epsilon region. These findings indicate that IL-4-induced isotype switching to IgE production in human B cells is accompanied by DNA rearrangements with joining of S mu to S epsilon. 
Intercostal-to-pulmonary arterial anastomosis, complicated by high-output heart failure: case report. A patient who had high-output heart failure resulting from anastomosis of the intercostal and bronchial arteries to the right pulmonary artery is reported. The patient was a fifty-one year-old man who was admitted to our hospital with left heart failure. A radionuclide angiocardiogram revealed blood flow from the aorta to the right pulmonary artery. A descending aortogram revealed abnormally dilated right intercostal and bronchial arteries, which formed the anastomosis. The right pulmonary artery was visualized via that anastomosis. Tuberculous pleurisy in the patient's history was considered to be the cause of the anastomosis. The therapeutic procedure used was embolization via a catheter for the anastomosis, but most anastomoses could not be embolized. The present report is considered the first on anastomosis of the intercostal artery to the pulmonary artery to the extent that high-output heart failure occurs. 
Tissue plasminogen activator release and plasminogen activator inhibitor levels in coronary artery disease. Unstable angina and Q wave myocardial infarction are associated with intraluminal coronary thrombosis, a process to which impaired fibrinolysis may contribute. The authors examined the extrinsic fibrinolytic system, including tissue plasminogen activator antigen, plasminogen activator inhibitor activity and antigen, and euglobulin clot lysis time before and after venous occlusion in 56 patients undergoing coronary angiography for chest pain syndromes and in 16 healthy controls. Fibrinolysis variables were similar (with greater than 95% confidence) in the patients with thrombus-associated coronary syndromes as compared with those with chest pain syndromes not due to coronary thrombosis. These fibrinolytic variables were also similar to those in patients without coronary artery disease and in healthy controls. Their data suggest that defective fibrinolysis is not involved, at least systemically, in the pathogenesis of thrombus-associated coronary artery syndromes. 
Influence of allopurinol on cardiac complications in open heart operations. During cardiac operations, the heart is subjected to total ischemia and reperfusion, causing serious operative and postoperative complications such as arrhythmias, heart failure, and infarctions that may be partly due to free radical generation. Thus, allopurinol was tested to see if it could reduce cardiac complications during open heart operations. Ninety patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting were studied prospectively. Fortyfive patients were treated with allopurinol and 45 patients acted as controls. Treatment requiring arrhythmias in the allopurinol group was 6.6% compared with 33.3% in the control group (p less than 0.01). The percentage of patients requiring inotropes was significantly lower in the allopurinol group than in the control group (4.4% versus 26.6%; p less than 0.01). Perioperative myocardial infarction did not occur in the allopurinol group but was seen in 8 patients (17.7%) in the control group. Intraaortic balloon pumping was used in 5 control patients (11.1%) but not in the allopurinol group. This study shows that allopurinol decreases significantly the incidence of cardiac complications in open heart operations. 
Cerebral hemodynamics in ischemic cerebrovascular disease. During the past decade, technological advances have made it possible to measure regional cerebral hemodynamics in individual patients. Studies performed with these techniques have demonstrated that the degree of carotid stenosis correlates poorly with the hemodynamic status of the ipsilateral cerebral circulation. The primary determinant of cerebral perfusion pressure and blood flow under these circumstances is the adequacy of collateral circulatory pathways. Since collateral circulation varies from patient to patient, there is no critical degree of carotid stenosis that consistently produces hemodynamic compromise of the cerebral circulation. It is, thus, time to abandon the concept of the hemodynamically significant carotid stenosis as it relates to the pathogenesis and treatment of cerebrovascular disease. Measurements of regional cerebral hemodynamics have provided new insight into the pathogenesis of transient ischemic attacks and generated some preliminary data on the prognostic and therapeutic importance of chronic reductions in regional cerebral perfusion pressure. Further investigations into the importance of hemodynamic factors in ischemic stroke can now be based on accurate assessment of cerebral (not carotid or vertebrobasilar) hemodynamics in the context of other coexisting epidemiological, clinical, hematological, and angiographic risk factors. 
The impact of breast cancer on sexuality, body image, and intimate relationships. For women, breast cancer remains a common and dreaded experience. It is normal for a diagnosis of breast cancer to evoke grief, anger, and intense fear. Most women, however, face this crisis and master it without developing major psychiatric disorders or severe sexual dysfunction. The options of breast conservation and reconstruction give women a new sense of control over their treatment and are quite successful in helping women feel comfortable with their bodies again. The effectiveness of breast conservation and reconstruction in preventing or ameliorating sexual problems after breast cancer diagnosis is less clear, however. Any impact these options have on sexuality is subtle and may relate more to a woman's feelings of being desirable than to how often she has sex, her lovemaking practices, or how much she enjoys sex. We need more information on how chemotherapy and hormonal therapy affect women's sex lives. As clinicians, we should pay more attention to our patients' complaints of vaginal pain, dryness, and overall loss of sexual desire during systemic treatment. Practical advice on lovemaking techniques and a clinician's open attitude towards discussing sexual issues can prevent a great deal of anxiety and sadness as women with breast cancer search for ways to keep their sex lives satisfying. 
Natural anticoagulants in systemic lupus erythematosus. Deficiency of protein S bound to C4bp associates with recent history of venous thromboses, antiphospholipid antibodies, and the antiphospholipid syndrome. The association of thrombosis with antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) could be due to their interference with natural phospholipid dependent anticoagulant mechanisms. We studied antigenic protein C (APC), functional protein C (FPC), free protein S (FPS), protein S bound to C4 binding protein (C4bp-S), antithrombin III (ATIII), as well as IgG and IgM anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) in 38 patients with SLE with a history of thromboses and 70 patients with SLE without such history. We found a high frequency of deficiencies of natural anticoagulants in both groups of patients with SLE but, because of patient selection, we could not determine the actual prevalence of these defects. Patients having had a venous thrombosis in the previous year had low C4bp-S more frequently than patients with older or no thromboses. When we divided our patients with SLE into those who had a definite, probable, questionable or no antiphospholipid syndrome (aPS) we found the frequency of C4bp-S deficiency to be significantly higher in those with definite aPS than in those without aPS. Intermediate proportions were found in patients with probable and questionable aPS. The levels of C4bp-S decreased as the levels of aCL, particularly IgG, increased. Stepwise discriminant analysis of natural anticoagulants selected deficiencies of C4bp-S and FPC with increased ATIII as a set of variables with highest predictive power for classification of patients with and without aPS. Thus, deficiencies of natural anticoagulants may occur frequently in patients with SLE. 
Parathyroid adenoma in a cancer center patient population. The association of parathyroid adenoma and antecedent events or relationships was examined retrospectively in 103 patients with parathyroid adenoma drawn from a cancer institute patient population. Patients were divided into two study groups by the referral pattern-intramural or community. The major contrast between the two groups was that the intramural patients had cancer diagnoses. The factors of advanced age, female gender, and prior regional irradiation appeared to be associated with the development of parathyroid adenoma. An interrelationship of incidental cancer and parathyroid adenoma, however, was not supported. Breast and differential thyroid cancers were most frequently associated with parathyroid adenoma, but age, gender, and irradiation were bias influences. 
Correlations between fibrinolytic function and acute myocardial infarction. The diurnal variation of tissue plasminogen activator and plasminogen activator inhibitor--2 important factors in regulation of fibrinolysis--is well established, but its clinical implications are not yet fully understood. Fibrinolytic function was measured in a group of 133 patients less than 45 years of age, 3 months after they presented with myocardial infarction, and they were compared with an equal group of carefully matched control subjects. A sub-sample of 71 patients and 50 control subjects was examined 3 years later. Tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor plasma levels were higher in patients versus control subjects at 3 months and at 3 years after myocardial infarction, with a high degree of correlation between the 2 determinations (r = 0.87). Of all hemostatic parameters studied, only low tissue plasminogen activator activity and increased tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor levels were significantly different between patients with and without recurrent infarction during the 3-year period. In those patients with a second infarction greater than 3 years later, however, tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor concentration was not significantly related to reinfarction. 
Intractable heart failure despite angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, digoxin, and diuretics: long-term effectiveness of add-on therapy with pimobendan. In 25 patients whose chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) had recently worsened to New York Heart Association class IV, pimobendan (5 to 20 mg/day) was added to maximum conventional therapy consisting of digoxin, diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, coumadin derivatives to prevent thromboembolic complications, and amiodarone to suppress serious ventricular rhythm disturbances. CHF was fatal in less than 1 month in five patients (two had shown some initial improvement). The other 20 had sustained improvement by at least one functional class, interrupted by episodes of CHF that usually responded to intravenous therapy. Median survival was 12 months (range 10 days to greater than 3 years); five patients died suddenly, 12 died of intractable CHF, and two died of other causes. Six patients were alive 3 years after the onset of treatment with pimobendan. Add-on therapy with pimobendan produced a sustained improvement in many patients with severe CHF that was no longer responding to a combination of digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. 
A successful murine model for contact sensitization to a sesquiterpene-alpha-methylene-gamma-butyrolactone: sensitization to alantolactone in four strains of mice. Induction of allergic contact hypersensitivity to a sesquiterpene lactone, alantolactone, was studied in four strains of mice: C3H/He, DBA/2, Balb/b, and Balb/c. The last three were successfully sensitized. A significant dose/response was demonstrated in these species, as well as an experimental "overload effect" in Balb/c and Balb/b strains. Histologic studies confirmed the allergic nature of the reaction. From the overall results, alantolactone can be considered a moderate sensitizer in mouse as well as in guinea pig. This study shows that the murine model can be used for experimental contact sensitization with moderate allergens, without the use of Freund's adjuvant for induction. 
Lumbar regional anaesthesia and prophylactic anticoagulant therapy. Is the combination safe? A survey has been carried out in all Danish anaesthetic departments (n = 80) regarding the attitude towards the use of epidural/spinal lumbar analgesia in patients who were receiving prophylactic anticoagulant therapy for the prevention of thromboembolism. About 60% of the departments used the techniques in patients receiving low-dose heparin and no side effects had been experienced. Spinal and epidural anaesthesia were in general regarded as being contraindicated in patients fully anticoagulated with vitamin K antagonists. In the world literature, the attitude towards the combination is conflicting. No randomised trial has been performed and complications are almost entirely confined to patients fully anticoagulated with vitamin K antagonists. Only one case of an epidural haematoma has been recorded when subcutaneous low-dose heparin was used as thromboprophylaxis. 
Eyelid necrosis and periorbital necrotizing fasciitis. Report of a case and review of the literature. Necrotizing fasciitis is an uncommon and severe soft tissue infection characterized by cutaneous gangrene, suppurative fasciitis, and vascular thrombosis. The disease is usually preceded by trauma in patients that have systemic problems, most commonly diabetes and alcoholism. Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus are the most frequent bacterial etiologies; however, combinations of numerous facultative and anaerobic organisms have also been isolated. Involvement of the face and periocular region is rare. A case is presented here, as well as a review of the clinical features of 15 other patients previously described, in whom eyelid necrosis due to periorbital necrotizing fasciitis developed. Early surgical debridement and drainage of necrotic tissues and appropriate parenteral antibiotics are the mainstay of therapy. The mortality rate in patients with periorbital spread was 12.5%, with the prognosis known to be adversely affected by delay in diagnosis and treatment and/or extension of infection from the face to the neck. Reconstruction of the eyelids with skin grafts was necessary in most cases to avoid such complications as cicatricial lid retraction, lid malpositions, and lagophthalmos. 
Relative kindling effect of detoxification and non-detoxification admissions in alcoholics. We reviewed the histories of 340 men and 60 women who were admitted for alcohol detoxification to determine if hospitalizations unrelated to detoxification increased the prevalence of seizures observed in these patients. Previous investigations on this cohort suggested that recurrent detoxification admissions increased the probability of seizure histories. Detoxification and non-detoxification hospitalizations were calculated from patient reports and chart reviews on patients admitted for alcohol detoxification. Discriminant analysis of each type of hospitalization and total hospitalizations for each sex revealed an increased risk of seizure activity correlating with non-detoxification hospitalizations, but the correlation was weaker than that observed for detoxification admissions and for total admissions. This correlation between hospitalizations and seizure prevalence supports the hypothesis that recurrent alcohol withdrawal may have a kindling effect. 
Effects of protein size on the rate of import of the precursors of aldehyde dehydrogenase and ornithine transcarbamylase into rat liver mitochondria. It is known that a signal peptide is required for the import of a protein into mitochondrial matrix. It is also known that a signal peptide can be attached to any protein and allow it to be imported. We recently reported that the rate of import of rat liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase precursor was slower than that of ornithine transcarbamylase precursor (Wang TTY, Farres J, and Weiner H. Arch Biochem Biophys 272, 440-449, 1989). It was not known if the difference in the rate of import was related to the fact that the mature portion of aldehyde dehydrogenase is larger (500 amino acids compared with 322 amino acids) or because the signal peptides were different. We further showed that treatment of the mitochondria with alcohols caused an inhibition of the import of the precursor of aldehyde dehydrogenase but not that of ornithine transcarbamylase. In the present study we constructed chimeric proteins that contained the signal peptide from one precursor protein and the mature portion from the other. We found that the rate of import was related to the overall size of the precursor protein. Consistent with this observation was finding that a truncated aldehyde dehydrogenase precursor, which contained 317 amino acids, was imported more rapidly than was the authentic precursor. Consistent with this finding was the fact that butanol caused the inhibition of only the large precursor proteins. Thus, it appears that size of the protein being imported is a major determinant of the rate at which a precursor protein is imported into mitochondria. 
Orthotopic cardiac transplantation in two patients with previous malignancy. This report presents 2 patients with previous malignancy in whom congestive cardiomyopathy developed secondary to doxorubicin toxicity. Both patients underwent orthotopic cardiac transplantation 3 and 5 years ago and are now in functional class I with no evidence of malignant recurrence. 
Weight-loss experience of black and white participants in NHLBI-sponsored clinical trials. We examined race-specific weight-loss results from two randomized, multicenter trials; the Hypertension Prevention Trial (HPT) and the Trials of Hypertension Prevention (TOHP). Mean weight change from baseline averaged 2.2 kg less in black women than in white women during 18 mo of follow-up in TOHP and 2.7 kg less during 36 mo of follow-up in HPT. Mean weight loss averaged 2.0 kg less in black than in white men in TOHP and 1.4 kg less in HPT. Because of greater weight gain in black control subjects, a comparison of net weight loss (change in intervention minus change in control participants, within-race) showed a less marked difference than did black-white differences in weight loss within the actively treated group. Thus, relative to weight that would have been gained without the intervention, the experience of blacks and whites was more similar. Racial differences in weight loss may result from a combination of behavioral, sociocultural, biological, and programmatic factors. 
Angioscopically directed valvulotomy: a new valvulotome and technique. Despite a large experience with "blind" retrograde valvulotomy in in situ vein bypass grafting, the incidence of residual competent valves remains high, and valvulotome-induced injury is common. In this study we describe a new valvulotome and technique of angioscopically directed valvulotomy and review the video tape recordings of 85 completion angioscopies of in situ femorodistal bypasses. Fifty-three vein grafts were prepared with the blind retrograde valvulotomy technique and 32 vein grafts with the new valvulotome and angioscopy. The use of the new valvulotome and technique is compared with that of the standard blind retrograde valvulotomy technique, and the normal endoluminal anatomy and incidence of primary disease in saphenous vein grafts was noted. The incidence of valvulotome-induced injury was 5/32 (15.6%) and 45/53 (85%) in vein grafts prepared with angioscopically directed valvulotomy and blind retrograde valvulotomy, respectively. Residual competent valves were found in 10/53 (18.9%) in blind retrograde valvulotomy and 0/25 of angioscopically directed valvulotomy vein grafts (p = 0.0114). In 22/53 vein grafts unsuspected primary disease was detected. Angioscopically directed valvulotomy with the new valvulotome and technique is feasible, reliable, and safe. It avoids residual competent valves, minimizes valvulotome-induced injury, and allows the detection and correction of unappreciated primary vein graft abnormalities. The new valvulotome and technique is a first step in the complete endoluminal preparation of the in situ vein graft. 
Predictors of death from aortic aneurysm among middle-aged men: the Whitehall study. Among 18,403 male civil servants examined at age 40-64 years there were 99 deaths attributed to aortic aneurysm during 18 years of follow-up. Each case was matched by age to ten controls who survived longer than the case. The risk of all types of fatal aneurysm was substantially increased for current smokers of manufactured cigarettes (rate ratio compared with lifelong non-smokers = 6.5; 95 per cent confidence interval 2.3-18.7), pipe or cigars (6.7; 1.7-26.5) and hand-rolled cigarettes (25.0; 7.5-83.3). Diastolic blood pressure was strongly associated with dissecting aneurysm (rate ratio per 10 mmHg increase = 2.4; 95 per cent confidence interval 1.7-3.2) and abdominal aneurysm (1.5; 1.2-1.9) but not other aneurysms (1.0; 0.7-1.5). The independent effects of height, adiposity, plasma cholesterol, glucose intolerance, reported angina and intermittent claudication were not significant. Hypertension and smoking, particularly of hand-rolled cigarettes, are confirmed as major and potentially remediable risk factors for fatal aortic aneurysm. 
Endothelial cell seeding. Endothelial cell seeding is a technique that has developed over the past 15 years in response to the need for a high performance synthetic vascular graft. This review details our present knowledge of seeding and examines the various problems that have hampered its introduction into clinical practice. 
Smoking and hypertension: risk factors for carotid stenosis. The prevalence of smoking, hypertension and diabetes mellitus was assessed in 221 patients suffering from internal carotid stenosis and compared with the prevalences in two sex- and age-matched control groups composed of subjects having normal Doppler findings and from non-neurological outpatients. Of the subjects with carotid stenosis 27.6% were hypertensive smokers in comparison with 9.5% and 17.2% in the two control groups. The difference of the stenosis cohort from the two control groups was significant (P less than 0.01 and P = 0.016 respectively). There was no statistically significant differences between the occurrence of diabetes and hypertension in non-smokers and patients who smoked. In 394 investigated patients suffering from carotid stenosis or occlusion an obstruction index, based on the Doppler shift frequency, was calculated. This index was lowest in the normotentive non-smokers. It was only insignificantly higher in the hypertensive non-smokers but significantly so in the normotensive smokers. The index was highest in the hypertensive non-smokers. It was concluded that cigarette smoking, especially if associated with hypertension, is a determinant risk factor for carotid stenosis and occlusion. 
Frequency of abnormal sphincter of Oddi manometry compared with the clinical suspicion of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Patients with pancreaticobiliary pain or idiopathic pancreatitis have been classified as having definitive (type I), presumptive (type II), or possible (type III) sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (SOD) based on clinical, laboratory, and ERCP data. This study was undertaken to determine the frequency of abnormal sphincter of Oddi manometry (SOM) when patients are classified by this system. Two hundred and thirteen patients with pancreaticobiliary pain were evaluated clinically; SOM, ERCP, and ductal contrast drainage time tests were performed. For biliary types I, II, and III, the frequency of abnormal SOM was 85.7%, 55.1%, and 28.1%, respectively. Similarly, for pancreatic types I, II, and III, an elevated basal sphincter pressure occurred in 92.3%, 58.2%, and 35.1%, respectively. When patients with an abnormal basal sphincter pressure were characterized by the magnitude of the elevation, the manometric profiles were similar for types I, II, and III. These data suggest that elevated sphincter pressure occurs more frequently in type III patients than previously reported, and supports consideration of SOM when evaluating and treating type II and type III patients. 
Gastroesophageal reflux, as measured by 24-hour pH monitoring, in 509 healthy infants screened for risk of sudden infant death syndrome. Continuous long-term esophageal pH monitoring has become the preferred test to quantify acid gastroesophageal reflux. Because reflux to a limited extent is physiologic, the determination of optimal thresholds to separate normal from abnormal reflux is mandatory. Esophageal pH was measured during 24 hours in 509 healthy thriving infants, aged 3 days to 1 year, using a glass microelectrode with an external reference electrode connected to a portable recorder. Percentiles of the four parameters studied (reflux index or percent of the investigation time with a pH less than 4, number of episodes with a pH less than 4 during 24 hours, number of episodes lasting greater than 5 minutes, the duration of the longest episode (in minutes) are presented. A percentile curve of the reflux index regarding the age distribution shows that the normal range for the reflux index during the first 12 months of life is about 10% (95 percentile), decreasing from 13% at birth to 8% at 12 months. Application of an age-related percentile curve offers a close-to-reality possibility of data interpretation and illustrates that there is inevitably an overlap of data between normal and abnormal populations, because reflux is a phenomenon occurring to some extent in every human being. 
Abnormal hormonal and renal responses to saline load in hypertensive patients with parental history of cardiovascular accidents. BACKGROUND. Acute cardiac and cerebrovascular accidents are more frequent in hypertensive subjects with a family history of acute vascular accidents. The mechanisms underlying the susceptibility to vascular disease in these subjects are unknown. We investigated whether a parental history of premature heart attack or stroke in hypertensive subjects is associated with abnormalities of sodium handling. METHODS AND RESULTS. Patients with mild, uncomplicated essential hypertension were divided into two subgroups according to family history: a subgroup with a parental history of premature heart attack or stroke (FV+, n = 18) and a subgroup with a family history completely negative for vascular accidents (FV-, n = 14). The two subgroups were comparable with respect to age, weight, sex distribution, blood pressure, duration of hypertension, cardiovascular risk factors, renal function, and organ damage. Baseline plasma renin activity (PRA), concentrations of aldosterone (PA), atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), and norepinephrine, and urinary electrolyte excretion were also comparable in the two subgroups. Despite these similarities, the responses to an acute saline load, measured under controlled metabolic and experimental conditions, were different in the two subgroups. In the FV+ subgroup at 60 minutes of saline load, PRA fell by 1.0 +/- 0.2 ng/ml/hr and PA concentration by 89.4 +/- 26 pg/ml and ANF concentration increased by 38 +/- 9 pg/ml, whereas in the FV- subgroup the corresponding responses were -2.3 +/- 0.3 ng/ml/hr (p less than 0.005), -190 +/- 43 pg/ml (p less than 0.05), and 80 +/- 13 pg/ml (p less than 0.005), respectively. Urinary sodium excretion was delayed in the FV+ subgroup (270 +/- 67 mu eq/min at 60 minutes) compared with the FV- subgroup (555 +/- 157 mu eq/min at 60 minutes, p less than 0.05). At 120 minutes of saline load, significant (p less than 0.005) differences in PRA and ANF concentration were still observed. In a control group of eight normal subjects the responses to a saline load were comparable to those in the FV- subgroup but greater than those in the FV+ subgroup at 60 minutes. CONCLUSIONS. These results provide evidence that the hormonal and renal adjustments to an acute salt load are impaired in hypertensive patients with a parental history of vascular accidents. We speculate that abnormalities of sodium handling may represent markers of a more rapid development of vascular injury in human hypertension. 
Total knee arthroplasty for osteoarthrosis in patients who have Paget disease of bone at the knee. Thirteen patients who had had sixteen total knee arthroplasties for pagetic gonarthrosis were followed for a mean of seven years (range, two to fifteen years). Involvement of the femur or tibia with Paget disease was associated with multiple technical difficulties at operation and with a final position in suboptimum varus or valgus alignment (ten limbs) or suboptimum alignment of the mechanical axis (nine limbs). The presence of bone with Paget disease did not affect the amount of blood lost during the operation, the postoperative course, or the rate of loosening of the prostheses. At the most recent evaluation, nine patients had no pain, three had mild pain, and one had moderate pain. The mean Knee Society pain score improved from 42 points preoperatively to 88 points and the mean functional score, from 33 to 86 points. 
Management of traumatic injuries to the facial nerve. Penetrating and nonpenetrating trauma to the head and neck produces myriad injuries to the facial nerve. This article presents a rationale of management of neural injury, emphasizing extracranial and intratemporal trauma and techniques of neurorrhaphy. 
Anterior plate fixation in spine tumor surgery. Indications, technique, and results. Anterior decompression by vertebrectomy is now well established as the procedure of choice to optimize neurologic recovery in patients with a deficit due to tumor involvement of the vertebral body. Fifteen patients with tumor involvement of the cervical or thoracic spine and neurologic deficit were treated by single-stage anterior decompression and AO plate stabilization. No patient suffered neurologic deterioration after surgery. All patients with thoracic lesions who were unable to walk on presentation and who managed to survive their primary disease improved to a level that allowed independent ambulation with a frame. There were no problems, such as loss of fixation or deformity. It is concluded that standard AO plates provide adequate stabilization of the cervical and thoracic spine after vertebrectomy for tumor involvement. 
PAF-induced bowel necrosis. Effects of vasodilators. Ischemic bowel necrosis in the rat is produced by injecting platelet-activating factor (PAF) intravenously. Since intestinal hypoperfusion is observed after PAF injection, we hypothesize that mesenteric vasoconstriction is the mechanism of bowel injury. We thus studied the effects of vasodilators in this model. We found that: (1) Phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, ICI 198615 (leukotriene antagonist) and PGE1 counteracted the PAF-induced mesenteric flow reduction and ameliorated the bowel injury. However, phenoxybenzamine and prazosin were relatively ineffective in correcting PAF-induced hypotension, showing that bowel injury can be prevented independently of the hypotensive state. (2) Nitroglycerin failed to prevent bowel injury, although it improved the mesenteric blood flow. Thus, in opposition to our initial hypothesis, correction of the mesenteric flow reduction induced by PAF does not always prevent intestineal necrosis. (3) Only phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, ICI 198615, and PGE1 ameliorated PAF-induced hemoconcentration and bowel injury. This suggests a correlation between vascular injury (expressed by "leaky" vessels and the consequent hemoconcentration) and bowel necrosis. (4) Although both nitroglycerin and hydralazine relax smooth muscle, hydralazine seemed to aggravate bowel necrosis. The mechanism remains unclear. 
Benign intrinsic tectal "tumors" in children. A specific group of intrinsic dorsal midbrain tumors was identified in six children by computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Each patient presented with raised intracranial pressure as a result of hydrocephalus due to obstruction of the sylvian aqueduct. No patient had brain-stem signs referable to the tectal tumor initially or subsequently. All six children underwent cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversionary procedures. The radiological features were consistent and specific, with all patients showing tectal calcification or primary increased attenuation of the tectal plate on CT scans. In addition, lack of contrast enhancement was noted initially in four patients and eventually in all six patients. In all patients MR imaging showed a focal tectal tumor distorting the collicular plate with no cystic component and increased signal intensity on T2-weighted images. There has been no evidence of progression in these six patients in the follow-up period ranging from 8 months to 17 years (8 months and 2 1/2, 4 1/2, 8, and 17 years). Diversion of CSF has been the only surgical treatment and no patient underwent deep x-ray therapy. Five patients have had normal intellectual development. In contrast to the majority of previously described periaqueductal and tectal tumors, this group of lesions appeared to be truly benign. The authors suggest that patients presenting with these clinical and radiological features may be managed by CSF diversion, serial examination, and MR imaging. 
Appearance of thrombosis-inducing activity in the plasma of patients undergoing pulmonary resection. Thrombosis-inducing activity (TIA) was detected in the peripheral blood of patients with lung cancer who had undergone pulmonary resection. TIA was examined by intravenously injecting plasma from the patients into BALB/c mice. The plasma containing TIA induced multiple thromboses in the lung and caused the mice to die 3 to 30 minutes after injection. The subjects were 19 patients whose plasma contained no TIA before operation. TIA was detected in 5.3 percent (1/19) on the first postoperative day (POD), 47.4 percent (9/19) on the seventh POD, 47.1 percent (8/17) on the 14th POD, 26.7 percent (4/15) on the 21st POD, and 20 percent (2/10) on the 28th POD. Plasma fibrinogen levels and peripheral platelet counts increased postoperatively and reached a maximum on the seventh and 14th POD, respectively. Peripheral blood with TIA had a significant elevation of plasma fibrinogen levels and platelet counts as compared to that without TIA. These observations suggest that TIA is present in blood in a hypercoagulable state in patients after pulmonary resection. Since tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 are known to induce hypercoagulable states both in vitro and in vivo, we tried to determine whether it was possible to detect both cytokines in blood indicated as hypercoagulable state by the presence of TIA. They did not, however, reach detectable levels in the blood. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma, alcohol, and cirrhosis: facts and hypotheses. Despite the epidemiological evidence of a correlation between ethanol abuse and hepatocellular carcinoma, some of the results of experimental and clinical studies remain controversial. Apart from inducing cirrhosis, which may be viewed as a precancerous liver lesion, ethanol may act as a cocarcinogen. Most investigations on this topic have focused on two aspects: ethanol's capacity to induce the cytochrome P-450-dependent microsomal biotransformation system and its interference with at least one DNA repair mechanism. Ethanol exposure enhances the capacity of mixed function oxidases to activate many chemical carcinogens, such as dimethylnitrosamine (DMN). On the other hand, ethanol exposure fails to influence DMN-induced liver carcinogenesis. The capacity of alcohol to inhibit DMN-demethylase activity has not been clearly demonstrated in experiments carried out with human tissue. In conclusion, both the effects of ethanol and their underlying mechanisms as regards liver carcinogenesis are open to debate. The link between ethanol abuse and hepatocellular carcinoma appears to be mediated mainly by its capacity to induce cirrhosis. 
Finger tremor after carbon disulfide-based pesticide exposures. Index finger tremor accompanying voluntary movement was studied in 19 age-matched control subjects and in 19 grain industry employees chronically exposed to carbon disulfide-based fumigants. Visual judgments of tremor amplitude made by neurologists during clinical examinations equaled the sensitivity of computerized tremor amplitude measurements. Tremor frequency variations detectable only with computerized measurement were present in grain workers with and without increased tremor amplitudes. Frequency differences discriminated between normal subjects and 74% of the grain workers. The distribution of tremor frequency power in the grain workers was often sequestered at 5 to 7 Hz, reminiscent of tremor in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. These findings suggest that the measurement of subtle tremor frequency changes may provide an early indication of chronic carbon disulfide poisoning. 
Chronic diarrhea. A practical approach for the pediatrician. Despite the high prevalence of chronic diarrhea there is no universal approach to its diagnosis and treatment. This article summarizes the pathophysiologic processes that result in chronic diarrhea and presents a diagnostic and therapeutic approach to this often distressing problem. 
Long-term complications of polyurethane-covered breast implants. The authors's personal experience using an earlier manufactured polyurethane-covered gel prosthesis is presented. Very long-term follow-up did not validate the author's initial enthusiasm. It is to be hoped that the newer polyurethane-covered implants will give more satisfactory long-term results. 
Transformed mammalian cells are deficient in kinase-mediated control of progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle. To investigate the role of kinase-mediated mechanisms in regulating mammalian cell proliferation, we determined the effects of the general protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine on the proliferation of a series of nontransformed and transformed cultured rodent and human cells. Levels of staurosporine as low as 1 ng/ml prevented nontransformed cells from entering S phase (i.e., induced G1 arrest), indicating that kinase-mediated processes are essential for commitment to DNA replication in normal cells. At higher concentrations of staurosporine (50-75 ng/ml), nontransformed mammalian cells were arrested in both G1 and G2. The period of sensitivity of nontransformed human diploid fibroblasts to low levels of the drug commenced 3 hr later than the G0/G1 boundary and extended through the G1/S boundary. Interference with activity of the G1-essential kinase(s) caused nontransformed human cells traversing mid-to-late G1 at the time of staurosporine addition to be "set back" to the initial staurosporine block point, suggesting the existence of a kinase-dependent "G1 clock" mechanism that must function continuously throughout the early cycle in normal cells. The initial staurosporine block point at 3 hr into G1 corresponds to neither the serum nor the amino acid restriction point. In marked contrast to the behavior of nontransformed cells, neither low nor high concentrations of staurosporine affected G1 progression in transformed cultures; high drug concentrations caused transformed cells to be arrested solely in G2. These results indicate that kinase-mediated regulation of DNA replication is lost as the result of neoplastic transformation, but the G2-arrest mechanism remains intact. 
Lineage-restricted clonality in biphasic solid tumors. Cytogenetic analysis of two pulmonary chondroid hamartomas and nine breast adenofibromas revealed clonal chromosome aberrations in both hamartomas and in four breast tumors. To determine lineage of the cells with chromosome aberrations, a combined immunohistochemical/cytogenetic approach was developed that enabled simultaneous ascertainment of cytogenetic aberrations and immunohistochemical features in individual cells. Immunohistochemical/cytogenetic evaluation of one hamartoma and two adenofibromas demonstrated that neoplastic proliferation, in each case, was confined to the mesenchymal (stromal) component, whereas epithelial cells appeared to be reactive. Cytogenetically abnormal short-term cultures of the remaining hamartoma and another of the breast adenofibromas were composed entirely of mesenchymal elements, indicating mesenchymal clonality in those tumors as well. Our findings support redesignation of pulmonary chondroid hamartomas as 'pulmonary chondromas' and suggest that carcinomas developing within fibroadenomas arise from reactive epithelial proliferation. Combined immunohistochemical/cytogenetic analysis might be useful in the development of novel therapeutic approaches that selectively target neoplastic populations within solid tumors. 
Instability of a 550-base pair DNA segment and abnormal methylation in fragile X syndrome. The fragile X syndrome, a common cause of inherited mental retardation, is characterized by an unusual mode of inheritance. Phenotypic expression has been linked to abnormal cytosine methylation of a single CpG island, at or very near the fragile site. Probes adjacent to this island detected very localized DNA rearrangements that constituted the fragile X mutations, and whose target was a 550-base pair GC-rich fragment. Normal transmitting males had a 150- to 400-base pair insertion that was inherited by their daughters either unchanged, or with small differences in size. Fragile X-positive individuals in the next generation had much larger fragments that differed among siblings and showed a generally heterogeneous pattern indicating somatic mutation. The mutated allele appeared unmethylated in normal transmitting males, methylated only on the inactive X chromosome in their daughters, and totally methylated in most fragile X males. However, some males had a mosaic pattern. Expression of the fragile X syndrome thus appears to result from a two-step mutation as well as a highly localized methylation. Carriers of the fragile X mutation can easily be detected regardless of sex or phenotypic expression, and rare apparent false negatives may result from genetic heterogeneity or misdiagnosis. 
Lichen planus and mesalazine. Lichen planus is a recognized complication of sulfasalazine therapy. Two patients developed typical oral and cutaneous lichen planus on sulfasalazine and their skin lesions recurred when they were subsequently changed to mesalazine. Lichen planus only resolved on withdrawal of both drugs. It seems likely that the aminosalicylic acid moiety is responsible for this reaction and that lichen planus is a true complication of mesalazine therapy. 
Bacteremia in febrile patients. A clinical model for diagnosis. Among 244 patients aged 18 to 98 years who were consecutively hospitalized in a department of internal medicine because of a febrile disease, 52 (21%) were bacteremic. On a logistic regression analysis, five variables known within 24 hours of admission were found to be associated both significantly and independently with bacteremia: low serum albumin level, low premorbid performance status, chills, renal failure, and an assumptive diagnosis of urinary tract infection on admission. The logistic model was used to divide patients into three groups. In group 1, the percentage of bacteremic patients was 5%, in group 2, 40%, and in group 3, 83%. The percentage of deaths in the three groups was 0%, 23%, and 50%, respectively. The model was validated in a second group of 257 patients. The percentage of bacteremia was 1% in group 1, 23% in group 2, and 65% in group 3. The death rate in three groups was 3%, 4%, and 35%, respectively. The accuracy of the attending physician in diagnosing bacteremia within 24 hours of hospitalization was compared with that of the model. Use of the model could have improved the diagnostic accuracy in 5% of the patients in group 1 and in 18% of patients in group 3. 
Pharmacologic roles of heparin and glucocorticoids to prevent restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Restenosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is the major clinical problem limiting the long-term efficacy of this treatment for coronary atherosclerosis. Recent advances in the understanding of the biology of restenosis indicate that intimal hyperplasia of smooth muscle cells is the predominant cause for restenosis. Therefore, therapeutic agents that inhibit vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation should be candidate drugs to prevent restenosis. Heparin has documented antiproliferative effects on smooth muscle cells, and the availability of low molecular weight heparins that lack anticoagulant properties makes them ideal agents. Glucocorticoids have wide effects on inflammatory and wound healing events and inhibit smooth muscle cell growth in culture and in animal models of arterial injury. Recent laboratory data suggest that combination therapy with both low molecular weight heparin and hydrocortisone may be a powerful treatment regimen to limit restenosis. 
Haemodynamic interactions of muscle relaxants and sufentanil in coronary artery surgery. The haemodynamic interactions between sufentanil (S) and muscle relaxants (MR) were studied in 40 ASA physical status III or IV patients (four groups of ten) scheduled for coronary artery bypass grafting (ABG). Group I received pancuronium (P) 0.08 mg.kg-1, Group II received vecuronium (V) 0.1 mg.kg-1, Group III received atracurium (A) 0.5 mg.kg-1 and Group IV metocurine 0.1 mg.kg-1 plus pancuronium 0.02 mg.kg-1 (M-P). Sufentanil, 20 micrograms.kg-1 was administered before sternotomy, 10 micrograms.kg-1 being injected before tracheal intubation and 10 micrograms.kg-1 afterwards. Heart rate (HR), ECG leadII and V5, systolic, diastolic and mean arterial and pulmonary blood pressures, central venous pressure (CVP) and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (W) were measured and recorded at the time of seven strategic events between the pre-induction of anaesthesia period and sternotomy. Cardiac output (CO) and systemic vascular resistances (SVR) were also measured before induction of anaesthesia and after the administration of S 10 micrograms.kg-1 plus the MR. The HR decreased from baseline values in the post-tracheal intubation period in all groups except in P group. The mean arterial pressure also decreased significantly in all groups except in the P group. The CO did not change from baseline values but SVR decreased in all groups. There was no evidence of new myocardial ischaemia according to the ECG monitoring and there was no significant difference in the HR changes between patients who had or who had not received beta-blockers in any group. We conclude that within the present study conditions and design, HR and blood pressure changed least with pancuronium. 
Coronary artery vasoregulation and left ventricular function in patients with angina pectoris-like pain and normal coronary angiograms. Twenty patients with angina pectoris-like pain, normal coronary angiography and abnormal exercise 201Tl scans were investigated by means of haemodynamic, coronary sinus blood flow and lactate determinations before and after cold provocation, pacing and dipyridamole infusion. Radionuclide angiography, a new exercise 201Tl scan and noninvasive hyperventilation and ergonovine tests were performed. Intracoronary infusions of acetylcholine were given in increasing doses and a second coronary angiogram in combination with a 201Tl scintigram was performed. Despite a previously pathological 201Tl scintigram, with reversible perfusion defects, only ten of the patients had reversible perfusion defects at the second investigation. Hyperventilation and ergonovine tests did not result in ECG signs indicative of coronary spasm. Intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine resulted in a diffuse coronary constriction in 3 of 14 patients, and in one patient a perfusion defect was observed on thallium scintigram. In conclusion, although most of the common methods for inducing coronary vasospasm were used, no consistent pattern of reaction was found to explain the chest pains experienced in this group of patients. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide-induced relaxation of pre-constricted isolated rat perfused lungs: a comparison in control and hypoxia-adapted animals. 1. To further understand the vasodilator actions of atrial natriuretic peptide and its role in hypoxic pulmonary hypertension, we studied the effects of atrial natriuretic peptide in the isolated perfused rat lung during normoxic ventilation and after elevation of pulmonary artery pressure by either hypoxic ventilation or infusion of prostaglandin F2 alpha. Control animals were compared with littermates that had become adapted to a 10% O2 environment for 3 weeks. Atrial natriuretic peptide was compared with atriopeptin I and atriopeptin III in order to study its structure-activity relationship. 2. Five experiments, each involving six control and six chronically hypoxic rats, were performed. During normoxic ventilation, atrial natriuretic peptide (30 ng-3 micrograms) produced a dose-dependent reduction in pulmonary artery pressure in chronically hypoxic rats, but had no action in the control animals. 3. Atrial natriuretic peptide dose-dependently abolished hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction to a greater extent in chronically hypoxic rats (EC50 98 ng) than in control rats (EC50 298 ng; P less than 0.001). Bolus atrial natriuretic peptide (100 ng) produced a plasma concentration of 22.6 pmol/l at 1 min, which is within the pathophysiological range. Initial plasma atrial natriuretic peptide levels were 9.4 pmol/l in control animals and 27.4 pmol/l in chronically hypoxic rats. 4. Chronically hypoxic rats were more sensitive to atriopeptin I, atriopeptin III and atrial natriuretic peptide than were the control rats (P less than 0.05). Atrial natriuretic peptide and atriopeptin III were equipotent and were 10 times more potent than atriopeptide I in both groups (P less than 0.001). 
Midazolam improves electrophysiologic recovery after anoxia and reduces the changes in ATP levels and calcium influx during anoxia in the rat hippocampal slice. Since blockers of excitatory transmission have been shown to reduce anoxic and ischemic neuronal damage, augmentation of inhibitory transmission by agents such as midazolam might have a similar protective effect. Rat hippocampal slices were maintained in vitro and used to determine whether and by what mechanism midazolam improves recovery of evoked responses after anoxia. The Schaffer collateral pathway in the slice was stimulated electrically, and an extracellular potential, the evoked population spike, was recorded from the CA1 pyramidal cells, which are postsynaptic. The slices were made anoxic by substituting artificial cerebrospinal fluid aerated with 95% nitrogen-5% carbon dioxide for fluid aerated with 95% oxygen-5% carbon dioxide. Percentage recovery was expressed as the amplitude of the evoked population spike 60 min after anoxia divided by its preanoxic amplitude. Protection in this model is defined as a significant (P less than 0.05) improvement in percentage recovery compared to the recovery of untreated slices. There was no recovery of the response recorded from CA1 pyramidal cells after 5 min of anoxia (4 +/- 2%) (mean +/- standard error of the mean [SEM]). Slices were treated with midazolam 10 min before, during, and 10 min after anoxia. Midazolam (1 microM) did not enhance recovery after anoxia when dissolved either in water (3 +/- 3%) or in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) (1 +/- 1%). A higher concentration of midazolam (100 microM) did enhance recovery when dissolved in DMSO (27 +/- 7%) but not when dissolved in water (5 +/- 2%). To test whether prolonged pretreatment with midazolam dissolved in water would enhance recovery, slices were treated for 30 min prior to anoxia. 
Selective microscopic examination of gallbladders, hernia sacs, and appendices. The usefulness of many "routine" medical procedures is being challenged in the health care atmosphere of today. This study was undertaken to determine the utility of routine microscopic pathologic examination of three frequently submitted surgical specimens. Pathology reports of 39,568 consecutive specimens, 17,105 appendices, 14,654 hernia sacs, and 7,809 gallbladders, submitted over a 49-year period, were reviewed. Microscopic examination of these tissues detected few unexpected findings. In those instances in which unexpected findings were discovered the primary surgery was curative or additional surgery would not have altered the prognosis. When careful, thorough gross examination by the surgeon and pathologist failed to disclose significant abnormalities or confirmed obvious disease such as inflammation, microscopic examination of these tissues might have been eliminated without a change in patient outcome. Although it could be argued that this microscopic pathologic correlation may be helpful for quality control and/or feedback of surgical decision making, the data indicate that gross examination alone may be sufficient in most cases, since unexpected microscopic findings are rare. The indications for microscopic examination of appendices, hernia sacs, and gallbladders are listed. Substantial savings of resources and time may be expected when selective microscopic examination is used. 
Deletions within the pseudoautosomal region help map three new markers and indicate a possible role of this region in linear growth. Short stature is consistently found in individuals with terminal deletions of Xp. In order to refine the localization of a putative locus affecting height, we analyzed two patients with a partial monosomy of the pseudoautosomal region at the molecular level. Eight pseudoautosomal probes were used for the genetic deletion analysis through dose evaluation. Three of them represent new markers (DXS415, DXS419, and DXS406) which were positioned on the pseudoautosomal map by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. Our data suggest that a locus affecting height maps in a region of about 1.5 Mbp, distal to the DXS406 locus and proximal to the DXS415 locus, a region which includes two CpG islands, and rule out an involvement of very distal sequences at the X/Y telomeres. 
Sleep apnea in acromegaly. OBJECTIVE: To provide information on the nature, prevalence, and severity of sleep apnea in patients with acromegaly. DESIGN: Consecutive case series. SETTING: Tertiary referral hospital. PATIENTS: Fifty-three patients with acromegaly were consecutively referred: 33 patients were referred because of clinical suspicion of sleep apnea and 20 patients were referred without suspected apnea. MEASUREMENTS: Sleep studies as well as growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) measurements were done. MAIN RESULTS: Thirty-one patients (93%; 95% Cl, 85% to 100%) referred because of suspicion of sleep apnea had sleep apnea compared with 12 patients (60%; Cl, 37% to 83%) referred without suspected sleep apnea. Patients with sleep apnea did not have biochemical evidence of increased disease activity (random growth hormone, 12.7 +/- 4.4 micrograms/L; mean growth hormone at 24-hour sampling, 10.8 +/- 8.4 micrograms/L; IGF-1, 90.0 +/- 7.5 nmol/L) compared with patients without sleep apnea (random growth hormone, 14.2 +/- 4.9 micrograms/L, P greater than 0.2; mean growth hormone, 12.4 +/- 3.5 micrograms/L, P greater than 0.2; IGF-1, 90.0 +/- 10.0 nmol/L, P greater than 0.2). Central sleep apnea was the predominant type of apnea in 33% (Cl, 18% to 47%) of patients and was associated with higher random growth hormone and IGF-1 levels than was obstructive apnea (random growth hormone, 23.4 +/- 3.9 compared with 8.8 +/- 3.1 micrograms/L, P less than 0.001; IGF-1, 126 +/- 17.5 compared with 72.5 +/- 7.5 nmol/L, P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Sleep apnea is common in acromegaly. The rate of central sleep apnea was unexpectedly high in patients with acromegaly, and biochemical evidence of increased disease activity was associated with the presence of central apnea rather than with the degree of sleep apnea. Altered respiratory control is a possible mechanism producing sleep apnea in acromegaly. 
Paraganglioma of urethra. Paraganglioma of the urethra is a rare tumor; only 4 cases have been reported previously. We report a fifth case of urethral paraganglioma and review the literature. 
Localization of metallothionein in hair follicles of normal skin and the basal cell layer of hyperplastic epidermis: possible association with cell proliferation. Metallothionein is a low-molecular-weight metal-binding protein. Although it is inducible by a variety of agents and ubiquitously present in many tissues, its physiologic functions are still not clear. The present study was undertaken to determine the possible functions of metallothionein in both the proliferation and differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes. Metallothionein was detected immunohistochemically in hair matrix cells of the bulb and cells of the outer root sheath of anagen hair follicles, but not in dermal papillae in normal skin in the back of mice. In hyperplastic epidermal tissue, induced by either a phorbol ester tumor promoter or cholera toxin, the basal cells of the interfollicular epidermis stained strongly for metallothionein. Elevated expression of mRNA of the metallothionein gene was also demonstrated when the skin was stimulated by agents that induced hyperplasia. Papillomas produced by two-stage carcinogenesis protocols also stained for metallothionein. These observations suggest that metallothionein is involved in the proliferation of epidermal keratinocytes. 
Hemostatic wrapping of ruptured liver in two postpartum patients. A variety of surgical techniques with variable success rates have been reported in the management of the spontaneously ruptured liver in pregnancy. We managed two cases of postpartum ruptured liver by wrapping the liver in hemostatic material. Hemostatic encapsulation effectively controlled massive bleeding of ruptured livers in two postpartum patients. 
Middle ear adenoma: tumour of mixed mucinous and neuroendocrine differentiation. Two cases of progressive hearing loss due to middle ear tumours are described. The histological characteristics numbered intraluminal mucin production and neuroendocrine features, as shown by argyrophilia and ultrastructural demonstration of dense core granules. These tumours have been known by many different names, reflecting the controversies relating to their presumed histogenesis and differentiation. The currently preferred designation is middle ear adenoma, and these two cases provide further evidence for dual lines of differentiation. 
Suture technique affects perianastomotic colonic crypt cell production and tumour formation. Suture line recurrence is an important cause of failure after potentially curative resection for colonic carcinoma. Our aim was to determine whether suture technique affected the incidence of perianastomotic tumours in experimentally induced colonic cancer. Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into three groups. A 1 cm longitudinal colotomy was repaired with four interrupted 6/0 polypropylene monofilament sutures, using either a transmural technique (n = 18) or a seromuscular technique (n = 18). Control animals (n = 18) had a sham laparotomy. All animals received nine, weekly, subcutaneous injections of azoxymethane (total dose 90 mg/kg) starting 6 weeks after laparotomy. Surviving animals were killed 32 weeks after laparotomy. Five animals from each group were given intraperitoneal bromodeoxyuridine (100 mg/kg) 1 h before being killed. At death, perianastomotic tumours occurred more frequently in animals with transmural sutures than in either controls or those with seromuscular sutures. This difference was associated with a greater mucosal bromodeoxyuridine crypt cell labelling index in the transmural suture group. We conclude that a transmural anastomotic suture technique promotes the development of experimental perianastomotic colonic tumours. 
Recurrent deletion in the human antithrombin III gene. Eight unrelated patients with recurrent thromboembolism, a family history of thrombosis, and plasma antithrombin III (ATIII) activity/antigen levels consistent with a diagnosis of heterozygous type I ATIII deficiency were studied by polymerase chain reaction/direct sequencing of ATIII gene exon-coding regions. Frameshift mutations of one base and two bases, respectively, were found to have occurred in two unrelated patients at the same GAG codon (Glu 245) within exon 4 of the ATIII gene. A literature search showed six further hitherto unrecognized deletion "hotspots" in four other human genes. These deletion-prone sites exhibited sufficient sequence homology with each other to derive a consensus sequence (T G A/G A/G G A/C), suggesting that deletion in human genes may not only be non-random but also sequence-directed. 
Detection of polyadenylated RNA in hepatitis B virus-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells by polymerase chain reaction. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with a reverse transcriptase step characterized a specific transcription activity in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in two patients (1 and 2) with chronic hepatitis positive for antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (HBc). Patient 1 was also coinfected with human hepatitis delta virus. A patient who cleared HBV replication after antiviral treatment with vidarabine served as negative control. HBV-specific RNA poly A sequences were detected by PCR in PBMC of patients 1 and 2 even without detectable HBV DNA (patient 2) as shown by dot blot and PCR assays. RNA sequences were found in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. The demonstration of HBV mRNA sequences within PBMC suggests the transcription of viral DNA, in agreement with the findings of HBV surface antigen in PBMC. The results in patient 1 demonstrated HBV mRNA sequences in leukocytes even without PCR-detectable HBV DNA sequences, likely due to ongoing hepatitis delta virus replication. 
Gold weight lid load as a secondary procedure. This paper discusses the use of gold weight lid load as a secondary procedure. By using three representative patients, I emphasize the following points: First, the dominance of the eye must be determined so that postoperative changes in the eyelid height can be anticipated. Second, in order to obtain an accurate weight of the implant needed, the restrictive effect on the eyelid from the previous surgery (a tarsorrhaphy or an encircling band) must first be eliminated. Third, to ensure the best result and the patient's comfort, lacrimal function, Bell's phenomenon, and levator function must be assessed. 
Effect of intracoronary diltiazem on infarct size and regional myocardial function in the ischemic reperfused canine heart This study was designed to investigate whether intracoronary diltiazem given before reperfusion could enhance myocardial salvage in the canine heart. Twenty-five dogs were subjected to 90 min of coronary occlusion followed by 4 h of reperfusion. The dogs were assigned to one of three experimental groups. The early diltiazem group received intracoronary diltiazem into the distal coronary bed at the onset of coronary occlusion and for 60 min after reperfusion. The late diltiazem group received the same amount of drug beginning 15 min before reperfusion and the control group received saline solution for 90 min of occlusion and 60 min of reperfusion. Infarct size expressed as a percent of the area at risk was significantly smaller in the early and late diltiazem groups (15.6 +/- 3.6% and 21.2 +/- 5.1%, respectively) than in the control group (49 +/- 4.6%) (p less than 0.05). Intracoronary diltiazem restored systolic function of the stunned, previously ischemic tissue to essentially normal preocclusion values. Segmental shortening after reperfusion averaged 21.6% in the early diltiazem group versus 0 +/- 1.7% and 7.3 +/- 4% for the control and late diltiazem groups, respectively (p less than 0.05). Low dose intracoronary diltiazem did not alter hemodynamic variables or myocardial blood flow but did improve segmental shortening 2 and 6 h after reperfusion. These data indicate that intracoronary diltiazem given during occlusion or just before reperfusion increases the salvage of myocardium compared with the salvage achieved by reperfusion alone. These results also suggest that intracoronary diltiazem given during the ischemic period enhances systolic contractile function of postischemic stunned myocardium. 
Influence of the site of tumor growth on the capacity of a low tumorigenic line of Friend erythroleukemia cells to differentiate. Friend erythroleukemia cells (FLC) passaged in mice are highly tumorigenic and multiply extensively in the livers of suckling DBA/2 mice without differentiating. In contrast, in vitro passaged FLCs injected intravenously were of low tumorigenicity, multiplied to a limited extent in the livers of suckling mice, and underwent marked differentiation from the proerythroblast to the orthochromatic erythroblast stage in the liver. The presence of characteristic C-type virions budding from the cell surface in various stages of erythroid differentiation served as a marker of the injected FLCs. When the same in vitro passaged FLCs that differentiated in the liver were injected subcutaneously in suckling mice, they formed large subcutaneous tumors consisting of sheets of undifferentiated tumor cells. It is concluded that the tumorigenicity of FLCs depended on the site of tumor growth and that there is an inverse correlation between the tumorigenic capacity and the capacity to differentiate. 
Gallstone fragmentation during biliary lithotripsy: effect of stone composition and structure. In vitro lithotripsy with the Siemens Lithostar was conducted on 36 radiolucent or minimally calcified gallstones housed in an anthropomorphic phantom. The ease and pattern of fragmentation were correlated with global composition for the entire stone, regional or microcomposition (determined by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy), and microstructure (determined by scanning electron microscopy). Stones made up of more than 62% cholesterol required 50% more shock waves to pulverize all fragments to 0.3 cm or less than did stones of less than 62% cholesterol (p less than .01). An inverse relationship was found between the number of shock waves needed for fragmentation and the cholesterol content (r = .77). Although a broad range of fragmentation responses occurred, little variation was seen in the ease of fragmentation within stone families. The majority of stones fractured along radially oriented cholesterol plates, but one third of stones treated showed initial chipping or flaking at the periphery before radial fracture. This type of peripheral erosion most often occurred in stones with peripheral pigment rims. These stones required more shock waves and lagged in pulverization compared with more homogeneous cholesterol stones. The efficiency of fragmentation during biliary lithotripsy correlates with the stones' global cholesterol content. A stone's architecture, as reflected by its regional composition and microstructure, partially predicts the mechanism of fragmentation. These in vitro data may be useful in further refining criteria for selecting patients and understanding the fragmentation process. 
Prognostic value of raised prostatic acid phosphatase and negative skeletal scintigraphy in prostatic cancer. Of 438 consecutive cases of newly diagnosed prostate cancer, 178 (41%) had skeletal metastases (T0-4 M1) at the time of diagnosis according to skeletal scintigraphy; 139 men had serum prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) greater than twice the upper limit of normal on 2 separate occasions at the time of diagnosis and 65% of them had metastases on bone scan. However, 49 men with normal bone scans were found to have similarly raised serum PAP. (Such patients are defined as having skeletal metastases in the current Medical Research Council immediate versus deferred orchiectomy study and stratified accordingly). The actuarial survival of this group was calculated by life table methods and was compared with that of 2 other subgroups: those patients having metastases demonstrated on bone scan, and those patients having both normal bone scans and normal serum PAP. The survival of the "metastatic by acid phosphatase" group was significantly better than that of the "metastatic by bone scan" group but did not differ from that of patients having both normal scans and PAP. For patients with no scintigraphic evidence of skeletal metastases at diagnosis, those with a raised PAP were at a significantly greater risk of scan conversion, although this was more powerfully predicted by high histological grade. 
Cancer occurrence in a cohort of patients surgically treated for peptic ulcer. A cohort of 4107 patients treated surgically for peptic ulcer between 1955 and 1960 was followed up to determine the incidence of cancer by record linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry. A total of 930 cases of cancer were observed during 76,634 person-years. Relative risks of cancer were computed by comparison with the recorded cancer incidence in the Danish population. During the first five years after surgery the relative risk of gastric cancer was slightly increased (RR = 1.43), but 5-15 years after the operation the risk was lower than expected (RR = 0.55). Thereafter, the relative risk of gastric cancer increased steadily and increased more than twofold after 25 years. Lung cancer occurred more frequently in the cohort members than expected (RR = 1.66), but the relative risk was independent of time since surgery. Malignancies other than gastric cancer and cancers related to tobacco smoking were close to the expected numbers. The results do not support the findings of a recent British study of similar size in which increased risks were reported for cancer at other sites. 
Proteinase trapping: screening for viral proteinase mutants by alpha complementation. Many virally encoded proteinases cleave themselves out of a polyprotein, with cleavage occurring usually at their own N terminus. This property was used to develop an in vivo screening system using the lacZ gene fragment of M13mp18. When a fusion protein of the alpha fragment of beta-galactosidase and an active 2A proteinase of human rhinovirus 2 was expressed, alpha complementation was not affected, as the 2A proteinase cleaved itself off the alpha fragment. However, fusion of an inactive 2A prevented alpha complementation, as the 2A polypeptide remained fused to the alpha fragment. After random mutation of the 2A gene by PCR amplification, mutants were screened; M13 phage defective in alpha complementation were obtained at an efficiency of 5% and were shown to contain mutated 2A genes. Intermolecular cleavage was then examined by expressing an alpha fragment-inactive proteinase fusion protein as substrate for an active 2A proteinase expressed from an M13 vector. alpha complementation indicated intermolecular processing of the 2A cleavage site on the alpha fragment-inactive proteinase fusion protein. This versatile system thus allows the high-density screening of both active and inactive proteinase mutants, cleaving either intramolecularly or intermolecularly, and should be applicable to other proteinases of high specificity. 
Excimer laser ablation of fibrocartilage: an in vitro and in vivo study. To date, lasers have found only limited applications in orthopedics. We employed a 308 nm XeCl excimer laser for ablation of fibrocartilage, in order to investigate the feasibility of excimer laser assisted meniscectomy. Experiments were conducted both in vitro and in vivo. For the in vitro study, human menisci, obtained during surgery and autopsy, were irradiated via a 600 microns core fiber at radiant exposures ranging between 20 mj/mm2 and 80 mj/mm2, at 20 Hz. Ablation rate measurements and histological analysis of the samples were performed. The ablation rates were found to range from 3 microns/pulse to 100 microns/pulse depending on the radiant exposure and/or the applied pressure on the fiber delivery system. Thermographic analysis was also performed during pulsed excimer as well as CW Nd:Yag and CW CO2 laser irradiation. Temperatures were lower for excimer laser (Tmax less than 65 degrees) than CW ND: Yag (Tmax less than 210 degrees) or CW CO2 (Tmax less than 202 degrees) laser. For the in vitro study, medial meniscectomy was performed in 15 rabbits with the excimer laser and a CW Nd:Yag laser in the right and left knee respectively. Excimer laser irradiation was performed at 70 mj/mm2. Nd:Yag irradiation was performed via a 600 microns core fiber at power outputs between 20 to 40 W for 10 and 20 seconds duration. The healing response to injury was investigated by histological analysis of the menisci after 1 day, 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks following the laser procedure. Excimer laser treated menisci showed less inflammatory reaction and noticeable repair with minimal inflammatory response. 
Palliation of malignant tracheal strictures using silicone T tubes. The use of silicone T tubes for intubation of malignant tracheobronchial strictures may provide some degree of palliation of this distressing condition. It was used in seven patients with malignant lesions and two with benign strictures (resulting from tracheal trauma and lung transplantation). Four patients (two with cancer) are still alive and well with the tube in position. All patients noted improvement in dyspnoea and stridor. The main problems were tube migration (one patient), tracheo-oesophageal fistula (one patient), and blockage of the tube by tumour (two patients) or encrusted secretions (three patients). Airway patency was restored when the tube was blocked by cleaning or by laser resection of the tumour. With careful supervision and education of the patient intubation can give useful palliation to patients with distressing upper airways obstruction. 
The effect of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy on the upper urinary tract. A total of 66 patients with low grade, low stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder who were treated with intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) underwent cystourethrography to detect vesicoureteral reflux. BCG was instilled weekly for 6 weeks and monthly thereafter for up to 24 months. Whenever vesicoureteral reflux was found or morphological abnormalities were detected on excretory urography (IVP) an isotope renal scan was performed to evaluate the relative renal function. Vesicoureteral reflux was found in 13 patients (19.7%): 10 had grades 1 and 2A, and 3 had grade 2B reflux. The number of BCG instillations ranged from 8 to 22. IVPs were normal in 11 patients. In 2 patients mild unilateral dilatation was present before BCG instillations, and this remained unchanged during and after therapy. None of the 13 patients with vesicoureteral reflux had IVP features suggestive of urinary tuberculosis. In 11 patients the refluxing renal systems had normal relative renal function (50 to 55%). Two patients had a decrease to 40% of the relative renal function with normal IVPs, suggesting a nonBCG related cause. We conclude that BCG therapy is safe in patients with minimal reflux. 
Intraoperative evaluation of intestinal ischemia: a comparison of methods. Methods for evaluating intestinal ischemia include standard clinical criteria, Doppler ultrasonography, and intravenous fluorescein injection. Each has disadvantages, and a combination of methods is often used. The purpose of this study was to determine whether surface oximetry could be used to assess perfusion in an animal whose intestinal diameter approximates that of infants. Reversible arterial, venous, and arteriovenous occlusion was studied in rabbit intestines. After 6 to 8 hours of occlusion, intestinal vascularity was evaluated by the four methods listed. Doppler ultrasonography and surface oximetry were found to be unreliable tools for assessing perfusion in this animal model. We conclude that standard clinical criteria and fluorescein remain the standards for intraoperative evaluation of intestinal perfusion. 
Ventricular tachycardia with congenital ventricular diverticulum. A 24-year-old man presented with symptomatic, recurrent, sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). He was found to have a basal inferior left ventricular diverticulum. His sustained VT was reproduced by programmed electrical stimulation and was unresponsive to procainamide, tocainide, propafenone, and flecainide. Endocardial mapping followed by resection and cryoablative surgery was performed. The patient had only one recurrence after 18 months, with subsequent control with procainamide for over 14 months. 
Clinical parameters predictive of malignancy of thyroid follicular neoplasms. Needle aspiration biopsy is commonly employed in the evaluation of thyroid nodules. Unfortunately, the cytologic finding of a "follicular neoplasm" does not distinguish between a thyroid adenoma and a follicular cancer. The purpose of this study was to identify clinical parameters that characterize patients with an increased risk of having a thyroid follicular cancer who preoperatively have a "follicular neoplasm" identified by needle aspiration biopsy. A total of 395 patients initially treated at Vancouver General Hospital and the British Columbia Cancer Agency between the years of 1965 and 1985 were identified and their data were entered into a computer database. Patients with thyroid adenomas were compared to patients with follicular cancer using the chi-square test and Student's t-test. Statistically significant parameters that distinguished patients at risk of having a thyroid cancer (p less than 0.05) included age greater than 50 years, nodule size greater than 3 cm, and a history of neck irradiation. Sex, family history of goiter or neoplasm, alcohol and tobacco use, and use of exogenous estrogen were not significant parameters. Patients can be identified preoperatively to be at an increased risk of having a follicular cancer and accordingly appropriate surgical resection can be planned. 
Metabolic markers of stress-induced myocardial ischemia. The human heart in the fasting state extracts free fatty acids (FFA), glucose, lactate, pyruvate, and ketones from circulating blood. The utilization of FFA accounts for most of the oxygen consumed and energy produced at rest. Patients with angiographically demonstrable coronary artery disease and stable angina pectoris have a resting myocardial metabolism similar to that of normal individuals. During atrial pacing in normal persons, there is a significant enhancement of glucose uptake but that of FFA is unchanged, and the oxidation of carbohydrates accounts for more than 60% of the energy produced. In patients with stable angina, myocardial perfusion becomes regionally inadequate during stress. Despite the increase of myocardial glucose utilization, carbohydrate oxidation is negligible. Pyruvate will not be oxidized but in the presence of increased amounts of reduced coenzymes will be reduced to lactate. In addition, a greater amount of alanine will be released by the myocardium through the transamination of pyruvate, with a concomitantly greater uptake of glutamate that serves as the NH2 donor. In addition, glutamate may be used as an anaerobic fuel through conversion to succinate coupled with GTP formation. Although coronary hemodynamics, including myocardial perfusion, return to baseline within a few minutes after stress, a longer time course is needed for myocardial metabolism to become normal. In particular, myocardial utilization of exogenous glucose remains higher well after the normalization of hemodynamic parameters. This is more pronounced in postischemic myocardium, but it also occurs in nonischemic muscle, and glucose is presumably used for rebuilding glycogen stores that were depleted during ischemia. 
Orthotopic liver transplantation for incurable alveolar echinococcosis of the liver: report of 17 cases. Between 1986 and 1989, orthotopic liver transplantations were performed in our unit for 17 patients with incurable alveolar echinococcosis. Ten patients had hilar involvement (group I), and seven patients had posterior localization (five of them had chronic Budd-Chiari syndrome) (group II). The delay between diagnosis and the orthotopic liver transplantation was more than 48 mo in group Ia (six patients), less than 24 mo in group Ib (four patients) and less than 48 mo in group II. Previous operations were more common in group Ia than in group Ib and II. Five patients have died-four in group I and one in group II. The actuarial survival rate at 15 mo was 75%. Early reoperations were frequent (69%), mainly caused by rebleeding. Bacterial and fungal infections occurred only in group Ia (four cases) and group II (three cases). In eight patients (palliative group), residual foci of infected nonhepatic tissue occurred after surgery. The titer of specific antibodies decreased during the first 3 mo in all the patients but one. In patients with radical liver transplantation, the complete disappearance of specific antibodies occurred within 2 yr in four cases. In the remaining five patients, specific antibodies remained detectable, but no evidence of recurrence has been obtained up to now. In the palliative group, a peak of specific IgM occurred at 3 mo; an increase of specific IgG was observed later. The growth of residual parasitic foci was relatively slow, and all these patients remained asymptomatic with a mean follow-up of 19 mo. We conclude that orthotopic liver transplantation is feasible in incurable alveolar echinococcosis and could be proposed without delay to patients with parasitic Budd-Chiari syndrome or complicated secondary biliary cirrhosis. In the other cases, the best time to perform an orthotopic liver transplantation is more difficult to determine. Nevertheless, in the perspective of an orthotopic liver transplantation, the management of these patients has to change, and repetitive laparotomies for palliative surgical procedures have to be replaced by interventional radiology. 
Avoiding the blanket approach to insomnia. Targeted therapy for specific causes. A systematic approach to the common complaint of insomnia usually results in a specific clinical diagnosis with clear therapeutic implications. Use of effective treatment strategies tailored to the situation can make treating insomnia a gratifying experience instead of a frustrating one. 
Transformation of T lymphocytes by the v-fos oncogene. Activation of T lymphocytes through the T cell antigen receptor has been shown to stimulate a rapid and transient accumulation of c-fos mRNA and protein. Transfection of a normal murine T lymphocyte clone with the FBJ-v-fos oncogene resulted in generation of a cell line that was morphologically transformed, had lost the requirement for IL-2 for proliferation, and was tumorigenic in adult syngeneic mice; however, the transformed cells retained the ability to proliferate in response to IL-2. The transformed cells did not show constitutive expression of IL-2 or c-fos mRNA, although the promoter regions of both IL-2 and c-fos genes contain AP-1 sites that are expected to be targets for binding of Fos/Jun complexes. In contrast, the transformed T cells showed increased constitutive expression of IL-2R alpha and c-myc mRNA; these genes may represent cellular targets for transformation by v-fos and physiologic activation by c-fos. We discuss the possibility that these transformed cells behave as cells partially activated through the TCR, and that transformation occurs through a mechanism independent of IL-2. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Treatment of choice for symptomatic cholelithiasis. Our initial experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) for symptomatic cholelithiasis has involved 152 patients. Patient age ranged from 17 to 83 years; most were female (78%). Their average weight was 170 pounds (range, 75 to 365 lbs.). Twenty-two per cent had a single gallstone, while 9% had two to three stones and 64% had more than three stones. Exclusion criteria initially included upper abdominal scarring, severe acute cholecystitis, choledocholithiasis, and inability to tolerate general anesthesia. The first two of these are now only relative contraindications with increased experience. Thirteen of the one hundred fifty-two procedures (8.5%) required conversion to an open operation. Average time of operation was 138 minutes. Intraoperative cholangiography was attempted in 78% of cases and was completed successfully in 66% of those attempted. There have been no deaths. The complication rate has been low: 4% major, 0% life-threatening, and 7.2% minor complications. Postoperative analgesic requirements are remarkably low: 36% of patients required no narcotics after leaving the recovery room. Eighty-seven per cent of patients successfully undergoing LC were discharged by the first postoperative day. Most patients resumed normal activities within 1 week after discharge. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy offers the majority of patients with symptomatic cholelithiasis an improved treatment option, resulting in significantly less postoperative pain, hospitalization, and recuperation time. 
Sucralfate versus antacids or H2-antagonists for stress ulcer prophylaxis: a meta-analysis on efficacy and pneumonia rate. OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: Histamine2 (H2)-receptor antagonists and antacids have been the basic drugs for the prevention of stress bleeding in ICU patients during the past decade. Recently, drugs without major influence on gastric pH have been investigated in stress bleeding prophylaxis. Therefore, a meta-analysis (Mantel-Haenszel test) was undertaken to determine the efficacy of sucralfate in the prevention of macroscopically visible stress bleeding, as well as the influence of sucralfate on the frequency of pulmonary infections. RESULTS: The efficacy of sucralfate was compared with H2-antagonists in nine studies and with antacids in eight studies. Sucralfate was significantly more effective than H2-antagonists (typical odds ratio 0.532, 95% confidence interval 0.303 to 0.933) and equally as effective as antacids (typical odds ratio 0.868, 95% confidence interval 0.452 to 1.667). The pneumonia rates of those patients who were administered sucralfate were compared with the rates of those patients who were given H2-antagonists in five studies and with those patients who were given antacids in four studies. Pneumonia was a significantly more frequent occurrence under prophylaxis with H2-antagonists (typical odds ratio 0.498, 95% confidence interval 0.316 to 0.783) as well as with antacids (typical odds ratio 0.402, 95% confidence interval 0.235 to 0.687). CONCLUSION: Sucralfate is an effective drug for the prevention of stress bleeding that minimizes the risk of nosocomial pneumonia in long-term ventilated ICU patients. 
Helicobacter pylori infection and the risk of gastric carcinoma BACKGROUND. Infection with Helicobacter pylori has been linked with chronic atrophic gastritis, an inflammatory precursor of gastric adenocarcinoma. In a nested case-control study, we explored whether H. pylori infection increases the risk of gastric carcinoma. METHODS. From a cohort of 128,992 persons followed since the mid-1960s at a health maintenance organization, 186 patients with gastric carcinoma were selected as case patients and were matched according to age, sex, and race with 186 control subjects without gastric carcinoma. Stored serum samples collected during the 1960s were tested for IgG antibodies to H. pylori by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Data on cigarette use, blood group, ulcer disease, and gastric surgery were obtained from questionnaires administered at enrollment. Tissue sections and pathology reports were reviewed to confirm the histologic results. RESULTS. The mean time between serum collection and the diagnosis of gastric carcinoma was 14.2 years. Of the 109 patients with confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma (excluding tumors of the gastroesophageal junction), 84 percent had been infected previously with H. pylori, as compared with 61 percent of the matched control subjects (odds ratio, 3.6; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.8 to 7.3). Tumors of the gastroesophageal junction were not linked to H. pylori infection, nor were tumors in the gastric cardia. H. pylori was a particularly strong risk factor for stomach cancer in women (odds ratio, 18) and blacks (odds ratio, 9). A history of gastric surgery was independently associated with the development of cancer (odds ratio, 17; P = 0.03), but a history of peptic ulcer disease was negatively associated with subsequent gastric carcinoma (odds ratio, 0.2; P = 0.02). Neither blood group nor smoking history affected risk. CONCLUSIONS. Infection with H. pylori is associated with an increased risk of gastric adenocarcinoma and may be a cofactor in the pathogenesis of this malignant condition. 
Differential effects on right ventricular function of transient right, left anterior descending and left circumflex coronary occlusions during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Right ventricular function was studied by means of a thermodilution catheter before, during and after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the proximal right (group 1, n = 8), left anterior descending (group 2, n = 8) or left circumflex (group 3, n = 8) coronary artery. All patients had evidence of myocardial ischemia, with single-vessel disease affecting the proximal segment of one of the three major coronary arteries; no patient had had a previous myocardial infarction and all had normal cardiac function at baseline study. Cardiac index decreased during balloon inflation. Mean pulmonary artery pressure was unaffected in group 1 but increased in group 2 (from 19 +/- 5 to 31 +/- 11 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and in group 3 (from 19 +/- 2 to 22 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). Right ventricular ejection fraction decreased from 62 +/- 9% to 52 +/- 10% (p less than 0.01) in group 1 and from 64 +/- 7% to 44 +/- 10% (p less than 0.005) in group 2, and returned to normal within 2 min after balloon deflation in both groups. In group 3, right ventricular ejection fraction was unchanged during balloon inflation (58 +/- 5% at baseline, 58 +/- 9% at 60 s, p = NS). Therefore, brief occlusion of the proximal segments of the left anterior descending or right coronary artery results in marked alteration of right ventricular performance that is probably caused by right ventricular free wall ischemia in the right coronary group and by the concomitant effects of septal ischemia and increased right ventricular afterload in the left anterior descending artery group. 
The presence in experimental animals of a colon specific Mr 40,000 protein(s) with relevance to ulcerative colitis. In patients with ulcerative colitis a colon tissue bound IgG and serum antibodies against an Mr 40,000 colonic protein(s) has been identified. Using an anti-Mr 40,000 protein monoclonal antibody, 7E12H12, by an immunocytochemical method, the protein was localised in human tissue exclusively to colonic epithelial cells. In this study the presence of the Mr 40,000 protein was assessed in experimental animals by the direct and inhibition enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) using the anti-Mr 40,000 protein monoclonal antibody, 7E12H12 (IgM isotype). In addition, a total of 129 specimens including colon, small intestine, gall bladder, biliary tract, and kidney from nine strains of rats and mice, and from human tissue were studied by the immunocytochemical method using 7E12H12. All colon specimens from both humans and animals reacted with 7E12H12 in the immunocytochemical and ELISA assays. None of the non-colonic organs reacted with 7E12H12. While in human colon 7E12H12 recognised the absorptive epithelial cells, in all the animals it recognised mainly the colonic goblet cells. Extracts of animal colon but not of small intestine inhibited the binding of 7E12H12 to the human colon extract. This study shows the presence of an organ specific Mr 40,000 colonic epithelial protein(s) in humans and experimental animals. A differing cellular localisation of the Mr 40,000 protein(s) in human v animal tissue was also shown. Further characterisation of the Mr 40,000 protein(s) may provide important clues regarding the autoimmune mechanisms in ulcerative colitis. 
Lymphatic abnormalities in Alagille's syndrome. Chylous pleural effusions developed in a patient with Alagille's syndrome who had dysplasia of the lymphatic system. Lymphatic abnormalities are not a recognised feature of Alagille's syndrome. 
Endoscopic contact Nd:YAG laser resectional vaporization (ECLRV) and esophageal dilatation (ED) in advanced malignant obstruction of the esophagus. Malignant esophageal obstruction in patients with advanced and metastatic carcinoma is unsuitable for surgery. Palliative treatment must provide adequate swallowing with minimum complications in these often seriously ill patients. Twenty consecutive patients underwent endoscopic Nd:YAG contact laser resection and vaporization (ECLRV) and esophageal dilatation (ED) for advanced esophageal carcinoma since August, 1985. Average duration of the disease when first referred was 7.2 months. Tumor cell type was either squamous cell carcinoma (n = 11) or adenocarcinoma (n = 9). Tumor location was distal (n = 14), middle (n = 5), or upper (n = 2). Mean tumor length was 7.5 cm. Mean preoperative luminal diameter was 1 mm, with total obstruction in ten (50%) patients. The operative procedure in all patients was under general anesthesia with endotracheal tube intubation. Rigid and flexible endoscopes were both used as indicated. Mean postoperative luminal diameter was 15 mm. All but four were able to swallow fluids on the first postoperative day, followed by semisolids the next day without discomfort. Minor perforation was noted in three cases and managed in two conservatively. One more patient had difficulty in swallowing due to extra-esophageal compression, in spite of a technically successful laser therapy. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) was carried out in eight cases. Eleven patients were retreated successfully for recurrent obstruction and two were treated more than twice, at a mean of six-week intervals. Endoscopic contact laser resectional vaporization with esophageal dilatation was relatively safe and provided an improved quality of life in this preliminary study group, providing a mean survival of 18.5 weeks (range 2-50 weeks). 
Orbital lesions with granulomatous inflammation. Orbital lesions characterized by granulomatous inflammation are a heterogeneous group of diseases of various causes with a common histopathological substrate involving aggregates of epithelioid cells. Forty-one patients (27 females and 14 males) with biopsy-proven granulomatous inflammation were seen at an orbital clinic between 1978 and 1989. The mean age at presentation was 40.2 (extremes 6 and 77) years. Two main clinical presentations were noted: painless, subacute or chronic mass effect, and tender, subacute inflammatory process. Six patients had secondary features that were infiltrative in character. The lesions were primarily located in the anterior superior orbit. In nearly half the patients the granulomatous reaction was confined to the orbit (predominantly ruptured dermoid and localized orbital sarcoid), and the remainder had either regional involvement (Wegener's granulomatosis or fibro-osseous process) or systemic involvement (sarcoidosis). 
Spontaneous recovery of renal function after resection of contralateral hypernephroma. We report a case of nonfunction of an anatomically normal kidney associated with a contralateral hypernephroma. X-ray and radionuclide imaging suggested a disturbance of the contralateral renal blood flow at the microvascular level. Normal function resumed after tumor resection. The implications for management are discussed. 
Gastrointestinal transit of solid-liquid meal in chronic alcoholics. Gastric emptying, mouth-to-cecum transit, and whole-gut transit of a solid-liquid meal were measured in 46 chronic alcoholics and in 30 control subjects by using scintigraphic techniques, hydrogen breath test, and stool markers. In the alcoholics various parameters such as ethanol consumption, gastrointestinal symptoms, and alcoholic neuropathy were determined and related to gastrointestinal transit times. Although there was no significant overall difference of gastric emptying, abnormally delayed gastric emptying was detected in 23.9% of the alcoholics but no control subject (P less than 0.005). Mouth-to-cecum transit was significantly prolonged in the alcoholics (P less than 0.001) with 14 alcoholics (37.8%) disclosing delayed mouth-to-cecum transit. No significant differences between both groups were detected concerning whole gut transit. In the alcoholics there was a significant correlation of dyspeptic symptoms with delayed gastric emptying (P less than 0.006), and alcoholics with diarrhea had an accelerated mouth-to-cecum transit as compared to those without diarrhea (P less than 0.05). Neither the presence of autonomic or peripheral neuropathy nor the presence of liver cirrhosis or ascites was significantly related to gastrointestinal transit times. However, the daily ethanol ingestion significantly correlated with gastric emptying (P less than 0.005). It is concluded, therefore, that in chronic alcoholics the small intestine and the stomach are most likely to be affected by gastrointestinal transit disorders and that these transit abnormalities are potentially related to toxic damage of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. 
Treatment of accidental digital injection of epinephrine. The use of epinephrine auto-injectors for prehospital treatment of severe allergic reactions has become increasingly popular in recent years. Anxiety when patients are called on to use these spring-loaded devices may lead to complications. We present the case of a 28-year-old woman who accidentally injected epinephrine 1:1,000 solution 0.3 mL into her right index finger with an automatic epinephrine injector. The approach to the treatment of these complications has been varied in the literature, including local sympathectomy, topical nitrates, and either local or intra-arterial phentolamine. This potentially disabling case of epinephrine-induced vasospasm of digital arteries was treated successfully with local infiltration of phentolamine. 
The porcine model for the understanding of thrombogenesis and atherogenesis. The hypothesis originated by Carl Rokitansky a century ago that thrombosis contributes substantially to atherosclerosis has been rekindled by accumulating experimental and clinical evidence. On the basis of our experience with the experimental porcine model, several important biologic determinants of thrombosis have been identified. The degree of vascular injury seems to be the primary determinant of the thrombotic response. In addition, hemodynamic shear stress and the presence of the von Willebrand factor have important roles in the process of thrombosis. Although there is little evidence that thrombosis is a factor in the initiation of spontaneous, or naturally occurring, atherosclerosis, substantial evidence suggests that thrombosis has an essential role in the progression of spontaneous atherosclerosis and also in the early pathogenic process of the syndromes of accelerated atherosclerosis-namely, heart transplant atherosclerosis, vein graft disease, and coronary restenosis after angioplasty. Advances in the understanding of vascular injury and of the interactions of blood cells with the vascular wall have allowed development of new experimental antithrombotic strategies and subsequent clinical applications in the prevention of these vascular diseases. 
Complex ventricular ectopic activity in patients less than 20 years of age with or without syncope, and the role of ventricular extrastimulus testing. To assess the potential for ventricular tachycardia (VT), ventricular extrastimulus testing was performed in 33 young patients with complex ventricular ectopic activity defined as multiform ventricular premature complexes (VPCs), couplets or nonsustained VT, or a combination, found during electrocardiographic monitoring. There were 21 male and 12 female patients with a mean age of 11 years (range 1 to 18). Patients were divided into 2 groups based on the presence (14 patients) or absence (19 patients) of syncope. Patients with syncope had ostensibly normal hearts (9 patients) or miscellaneous heart disease (5 patients). Patients without syncope had ostensibly normal hearts (8 patients) or miscellaneous heart disease (11 patients). Ventricular stimulation protocol consisted of burst pacing and 1 to 4 programmed extrastimuli decreasing to refractoriness at 3 drive-train cycle lengths, and at 2 pacing sites (right ventricular apex and outflow tract) during the drug-free baseline state and isoproterenol infusion. No patient had VT induced with 1 or 2 extrastimuli. VT was induced in 13 of 14 patients (93%) with syncope, and in 9 of 19 patients (47%) without syncope (p less than 0.05). Using a 3-extrastimuli protocol, 8 of 14 patients (57%) with and 3 of 19 patients (16%) without syncope had VT induced (p less than 0.05). These findings suggest that VT may be the cause of syncope in young patients with complex ventricular ectopic activity. 
Clinical benefits of structural and functional changes with calcium antagonists. Calcium antagonists have a large variety of pharmacologic effects in addition to those exploited clinically. All drugs used in the management of hypertension, including calcium antagonists, are coming under increasing scrutiny for the possible beneficial and adverse effects they may have on the circulation and risk factor profile. This is particularly because of concern about the relative resistance of coronary heart disease to antihypertensive drug treatment and the increasing interest in evaluating the impact of blood pressure-lowering drugs on surrogate endpoints such as left ventricular hypertrophy. Given the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic heterogeneity of calcium antagonists, it may be wise to keep in mind the subtypes as exemplified by the prototypes nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil and to extrapolate from one type to another with great caution. The increased understanding of the diversity among calcium antagonists as well as the pathophysiology of hypertension and other vascular diseases promises an exciting future for calcium antagonists in cardiovascular therapeutics. 
Risk of peritonitis and fatal septicaemia and the need to defunction the low anastomosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the need to defunction the low anastomosis after anterior resection of the rectum with total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer. Two hundred consecutive patients (125 defunctioned, 75 non-defunctioned) undergoing low anterior resection for carcinoma were included in the study. Peritonitis requiring emergency laparotomy occurred in 8 per cent of the patients who did not have a defunctioning stoma compared with less than 1 per cent of those patients who had a defunctioning stoma (P less than 0.01). There was no mortality related to closure of the stoma but seven patients developed a faecal fistula and ten developed an incisional hernia. Despite current trends to avoid the defunctioning stoma, these results suggest that after total mesorectal excision the faecal stream should be temporarily diverted away from the anastomosis that is 6 cm or less from the anal verge to protect against potentially life-threatening anastomotic leakage. 
Acute and sustained changes in sodium balance during nifedipine treatment in essential hypertension. PURPOSE: To assess the changes in sodium excretion and sodium balance after initiation of nifedipine treatment and after withdrawal of nifedipine. PATIENTS: Eight patients with uncomplicated mild to moderate essential hypertension were entered in a single-blind, placebo-controlled study of 39 days' duration. METHODS: Two 7-day periods while on a fixed sodium intake of 150 mmol/day approximately 3 weeks apart. After 4 days of a placebo and fixed sodium intake, patients were given nifedipine GITS (gastrointestinal therapeutic system) once a day and carefully studied for the following 4 days. Thereafter, patients continued to receive nifedipine GITS, and approximately 3 weeks later they were studied again for a week while on a fixed sodium intake. Nifedipine administration was stopped and changes occurring after withdrawal were studied. RESULTS: Nifedipine caused a significant increase in sodium excretion with a cumulative loss of sodium of 38 mmol per subject within the first 4 days of treatment. The withdrawal of nifedipine treatment caused a significant decrease in sodium excretion and a cumulative retention of sodium of 42 mmol per subject within the first 4 days of withdrawal. CONCLUSION: Nifedipine causes an acute and a sustained reduction in sodium balance in patients with essential hypertension. This prolonged effect may contribute to the mechanism whereby nifedipine lowers blood pressure. 
The interaction of proinsulin with the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor in human liver, muscle, and adipose tissue. Because of the sequence homology and tertiary structure similarities between proinsulin (PI) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), it is possible that PI interacts with the IGF-I receptor with higher affinity than insulin. To test this hypothesis in man, we have partially purified IGF-I receptors from liver, muscle, and adipose tissue and studied their interaction with PI, insulin, IGF-I, and IGF-II. With some tissue to tissue variation, [125I]insulin binding was 4- to 8-fold greater than IGF-I binding. Unlabeled IGF-I at about 1 x 10(-9 M, IGF-II at about 1 x 10(-8) M, and insulin at about 1 x 10(-6) M displace 50% the binding of [125I]IGF-I to its receptor, whereas PI at 1 x 10(-6) M displaces less than 20% of the binding of [125I]IGF-I to its receptor. We conclude that in human liver, muscle, and adipose tissue, PI does not interact with the IGF-I receptor at a higher affinity than insulin, and the affinity of IGF-I receptors is several-fold lower than that of insulin receptors. It is, therefore, unlikely that if PI were to be administered to man any of its biological effects would be by interacting with the IGF-I receptor. 
The yield of barium enema in patients undergoing inguinal hernia repair or abdominal hysterectomy. It is the practice of some gynecologists and general surgeons to preoperatively evaluate the colon with a barium enema (BE) examination to exclude potential intestinal involvement or coexistent disease in patients undergoing pelvic or hernia operations. This practice appears to be based on anecdotal data with few studies specifically evaluating its usefulness. We retrospectively evaluated the records of 190 patients at William Beaumont Army Medical Center during 1986 to 1987 who received a preoperative BE prior to total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) or inguinal hernia repair (IHR). The tumor registry charts of 59 patients diagnosed with carcinoma of the colon and rectum during the same period were also cross-checked to determine if any were detected during preoperative evaluation for TAH or IHR. BE findings were considered significant if they altered surgical management or asymptomatic carcinoma was detected. Of 86 patients screened before TAH by BE, eight had abnormal findings with subsequent colonoscopy revealing four with adenomatous polyps, one of which required surgical resection. Of 104 patients screened before IHR by BE, 15 had abnormal findings with subsequent colonoscopy revealing five patients with adenomatous polyps and two with adenocarcinoma. Screening preoperative BE had a low yield of clinically significant findings, which was even lower in the subgroup with carcinoma. There was no apparent relationship between findings and age in our study. Our results suggest that the use of routine preoperative BE has a low yield and should be performed only if clinical symptoms or findings suggest a need for this study. 
Does tremor pace repetitive voluntary motor behavior in Parkinson's disease? In patients with Parkinson's disease and in normal subjects, the influence of tremor on repetitive voluntary movement was investigated in the index finger by comparing frequency of isometric force tremor with frequency of voluntary alternating isometric contractions. Tremor frequency, measured over the range from 0 to 70% maximum voluntary force, usually increased with force. The tremor frequency band was lower and more often overlapped with the upper voluntary frequency range in patients than in normal subjects. Normal subjects could accurately produce voluntary contractions at all cue frequencies from 1 to 5 Hz. Patients could produce auditory-paced frequencies of 1 and 2 Hz, but at higher cue frequencies, their voluntary contractions were often faster or slower than the cue. The faster or "hastened" voluntary frequencies were within the tremor frequency band, whereas the slowed voluntary frequencies were below it. Maximal voluntary frequency was often greater than the lowest but always less than the highest tremor frequency. It is concluded that parkinsonian tremor may pace voluntary repetitive movements to go faster than intended with the highest tremor frequency being an upper limit for voluntary frequency. Similar mechanisms may underlie the hastened repetitive vocal responses that were also observed in the parkinsonian patients. 
Serum alpha-L-fucosidase. A more sensitive marker for hepatocellular carcinoma? Forty-nine liver disease patients (7 chronic persistent hepatitis, CPH; 10 chronic active hepatitis, CAH; 13 liver cirrhosis, LC; 9 primary hepatocellular carcinoma, PHC, without LC; and 10 PHC with associated LC) and 20 controls were assessed for their serum alpha-L-fucosidase (ALF) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels and several routine liver injury parameters. Tumor diameter in those with hepatic cancer was assessed by angio-CT. Only ALF and AFP were significantly greater in patients with PHC and PHC + LC patients as compared to patients with LC alone. At an accepted cutoff level of 500 ng/ml, the AFP level provided 43% false negative tests. On the other hand, an ALF level exceeding 740 mumol/hr/ml provided a sensitivity of 84% with a specificity of 94%. No relationship between the ALF level and Child's criteria or with any liver injury parameter was evident. Considering all individual values, the ALF, rather than the AFP, correlated with tumor size. This finding suggests the ALF level may be of value in the early detection of PHC as well as in the follow-up of patients treated for PHC. 
Postoperative protein metabolism: effect of nursing elderly patients for 24 h after abdominal surgery in a thermoneutral environment. We have studied the effect of intraoperative body heat conservation and 24-h thermoneutrality on postoperative whole body protein turnover using stable isotope methodology in a group of elderly patients undergoing colorectal surgery for rectosigmoid adenocarcinoma. Two groups of eight patients were studied. One group (control, or cold) received routine intraoperative and postoperative care. All patients in the second group (warmed) were maintained at normothermia during anaesthesia and surgery; these patients were nursed after surgery in a warm room (ambient temperature 28-30 degrees C) for a period of 24 h. General anaesthesia, surgical care and nutritional support were similar in both groups. A constant nutritional intake, based on nitrogen 0.1 g kg-1 day-1 and energy 20 kcal kg-1 day-1, was provided orally for 7 days before surgery and i.v. after operation for 4 consecutive days. Whole body protein breakdown and synthesis, as assessed by stable isotope methodology, increased significantly 2 and 4 days after surgery in both groups (P less than 0.01), but the increase in protein breakdown in the warmed group on day 2 was significantly less than that in the cold group (P less than 0.05). The increase in leucine oxidation in the warmed group on the 2nd day after surgery was not significant, and was less than the increase observed in the cold group (P less than 0.05). However, by the 4th day, leucine oxidation was enhanced significantly in both groups (P less than 0.01). 
Nasal haemangiopericytoma. Haemangiopericytoma is an uncommon vascular tumour frequently diagnosed with difficulty. The immunohistochemical findings of strong positivity to vimentin together with other diagnostic features (histological and ultrastructural) improves the certainty of its diagnosis. We report a case arising in the nose and outline diagnostic problems especially relating to histopathology. 
Elevated intraoperative blood carboxyhemoglobin levels in surgical patients--Georgia, Illinois, and North Carolina. In October 1990, three hospitals, one each in Georgia, Illinois, and North Carolina, reported 26 episodes of elevated blood carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels (normal: less than 3% in a nonsmoker, less than 10% in a smoker) during surgery in patients with no known carbon monoxide (CO) exposure. All three hospitals are large, medical-school-affiliated, training institutions. Hospital A (Georgia) reported 15 episodes from January 1987 through September 1989; hospital B (North Carolina), eight episodes from January through October 1990; and hospital C (Illinois), three episodes from January through September 1990. All of the episodes were detected during routine blood gas analyses that included COHb measurements (co-oximetry). In eight episodes, peak COHb levels were greater than 20%. Usually, when an elevated COHb level was detected intraoperatively, 100% oxygen was administered, an alternate gas source was instituted, and COHb levels returned to normal. No deaths or serious complications were reported. 
Neurotrophic protein S100 beta stimulates glial cell proliferation. Nervous system development involves a coordinated series of events, including regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation by specific extracellular factors. S100 beta is a neurotrophic protein that has been implicated in regulation of cellular proliferation, but direct evidence was lacking. In this report, nanomolar concentrations of S100 beta are shown to stimulate proliferation of rat C6 glioma cells and primary astrocytes. An S100 mutant with a single amino acid change was inactive. S100 beta also stimulated increases in the steady-state levels of c-myc and c-fos protooncogene mRNAs and complemented the effects of platelet-derived growth factor. Two neuroblastoma cell lines did not proliferate in response to S100 beta, suggesting that the mitogenic activity of S100 beta is selective for astroglial cells. These results suggest that S100 beta may be involved in the coordinate development and maintenance of the central nervous system by synchronously stimulating the differentiation of neurons and the proliferation of astroglia. 
Overnight studies in severe chronic left heart failure: arrhythmias and oxygen desaturation. Overnight studies were performed in 10 patients with severe chronic left heart failure (New York Heart Association grades III and IV) without pulmonary disease and in eight controls. Transcutaneous oxygen (Po2) and carbon dioxide tensions (Pco2) and oxygen saturation were measured and the electro-cardiogram was recorded. During sleep mean oxygen saturation fell to 92.7% (minimum 86.1%) from 95.1% when awake. During the night oxygen saturation was below 95% for 62% of the time, below 90% for 6% of the time, and below 85% for 1% of the time. In four patients there were oxygen desaturation dips (a fall of greater than 4% in oxygen saturation from a stable baseline that lasted greater than 30 s) with concurrent increases in Pco2. Two patients had bradycardia during the dips: in one there was non-sustained ventricular tachycardia during the dips and in the other there was ST depression (greater than 0.1 mV at 80 ms after the J point) during a dip. In the controls the fall in mean oxygen saturation from 95.4% when they were awake to 94.4% when they were asleep was less than the fall in patients with heart failure and there were no desaturation dips or arrhythmias. Thus patients with severe heart failure had episodes of oxygen desaturation during sleep, some of which were associated with arrhythmia. Such episodes may be related to the increased risk of sudden death in chronic heart failure. 
Phase I trial of tissue plasminogen activator for the prevention of vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Recent laboratory studies have demonstrated that intracisternal administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) can facilitate the normal clearing of blood from the subarachnoid space and prevent or ameliorate delayed arterial spasm. The results of a preliminary Phase I trial of intracisternal rt-PA in 10 patients are reported with documented aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). All patients enrolled were classified as clinical Grade III or IV (according to Hunt and Hess) with thick clots or layers of blood in the basal cisterns and major cerebral fissures (Fisher Grade 3). Ventriculostomy and surgery for clipping of the aneurysms were performed within 48 hours of hemorrhage. In one patient, 10 mg rt-PA was instilled into the subarachnoid cisterns prior to closing the dura. In the remaining nine patients, a small silicone catheter was left in the subarachnoid space and rt-PA (5 mg in four cases or 1.5 mg (0.5 mg every 8 hours for three infusions) in five cases) was instilled 12 to 24 hours after surgery. Minor local bleeding complications were noted in all patients receiving 5 or 10 mg rt-PA. Oozing was noted at the operative incision site in four of five patients and at the ventriculostomy site in two patients. One patient developed a small epidural hematoma that was treated by delayed drainage. No bleeding complications were noted in the patients receiving the lower regimen of rt-PA (three infusions of 0.5 mg each). Serial coagulation studies demonstrated no evidence of systemic fibrinolysis. Analysis of cisternal cerebrospinal fluid samples revealed thrombolytic tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) levels for 24 to 48 hours. Follow-up cerebral angiography 7 to 8 days after rupture disclosed mild to moderate spasm in nine patients, while one patient with hemorrhage from a posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm had severe focal spasm of the vertebral arteries that was not symptomatic. These results suggest that postoperative treatment with rt-PA may be effective in reducing the severity of delayed cerebral vasospasm. The results of serial t-PA levels suggest that the lower dosage regimen with divided dosages at 8-hour intervals is well tolerated and that even lower dosages may be effective. Further studies are clearly indicated. 
The long distance effects of brain lesions: visualization of axonal pathways and their terminations in the human brain by the Nauta method. This study aims at determining the reliability and the optimal post-injury survival time for the application of the Nauta technique to the analysis of the human brain. The Nauta method reveals the degeneration not only of nerve fibers, myelinated and unmyelinated, but also of their terminations. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations appear to prove that the Nauta technique indeed stains axons in human autopsy material. The optimal survival time for the use of the Nauta method was found to be between nine days and five months. In cases with longer survival times--up to 20 months--the Nauta technique and a previously proposed polarizing technique (showing birefringent breakdown products of myelin) can be used as complementary methods. Applying these techniques to the human brain may help define the anatomical basis of neurological and neuropsychological symptoms important for man. 
Brain natriuretic peptide as a novel cardiac hormone in humans. Evidence for an exquisite dual natriuretic peptide system, atrial natriuretic peptide and brain natriuretic peptide. Using a specific radioimmunoassay for human brain natriuretic peptide (hBNP) with a monoclonal antibody, we have investigated its synthesis, secretion, and clearance in comparison with those of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) in normal subjects and patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). Mean BNP-like immunoreactivity (-LI) levels in normal atrium and ventricle were 250 and 18 pmol/g, respectively. The plasma BNP-LI level in normal subjects was 0.90 +/- 0.07 fmol/ml, which was 16% of the ANP-LI level. In contrast, the plasma BNP-LI level markedly increased in patients with CHF in proportion to its severity, and surpassed the ANP-LI level in severe cases. There was a significant step-up of the plasma BNP-LI level in the coronary sinus (CS) compared with that in the aortic root (Ao) and the difference between these BNP-LI levels, delta(CS-Ao)BNP, also increased with the severity of CHF. In addition, the step-up of the BNP-LI level in the anterior interventricular vein [delta(AIV-Ao)BNP] was comparable to delta(CS-Ao)BNP, indicating that BNP is secreted mainly from the ventricle. Predominant BNP synthesis in the ventricle was also confirmed by Northern blot analysis. Catheterization and pharmacokinetic studies revealed that hBNP is cleared from the circulation more slowly than alpha-hANP; this was in part attributed to lower (about 7%) binding affinity of hBNP to clearance receptors than that of alpha-hANP. A predominant molecular form of BNP-LI in the heart and plasma was a 3-kD form corresponding to hBNP. These results indicate that BNP is a novel cardiac hormone secreted predominantly from the ventricle, and that the synthesis, secretion and clearance of BNP differ from those of ANP, suggesting discrete physiological and pathophysiological roles of BNP in a dual natriuretic peptide system. 
A pair of monozygotic twins who are concordant for myasthenia gravis but became discordant for systemic lupus erythematosus post-thymectomy. We describe a pair of monozygotic twins who are concordant for myasthenia gravis but discordant for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). SLE developed in twin 1 18 years post-thymectomy and has been characterized by recurrent transverse myelitis and optic neuritis. Twin 2 remains well post-thymectomy, except for a skin rash and persistent leukopenia. Both twins have developed autoimmune thyroid disease. We review genetic and environmental factors of importance in the pathogenesis of SLE and discuss the possible role of thymectomy in the etiology of the disease. 
Incidence of pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients treated with sucralfate or cimetidine as prophylaxis for stress bleeding: bacterial colonization of the stomach. Retrograde colonization of the oropharynx from the stomach by microaspiration of gastric fluid is a recently recognized phenomenon associated with increased gastric pH that may result in pneumonia during ventilation therapy. In a prospective study we investigated 104 mechanically ventilated patients in the intensive care unit who were receiving sucralfate (n = 49) or cimetidine (n = 55) for stress ulcer prophylaxis. The incidence of pneumonia was 45.5% (25 patients) in the cimetidine group and 26.5% (13 patients) in the sucralfate group (95% confidence interval 0.98 to 6.97; odds ratio 2.61; p = 0.0549). Mortality rates were 18.4% (9 patients) in the sucralfate group versus 25.5% (14 patients) in the cimetidine group (p = 0.48). The mean pH values of gastric aspirates were significantly lower in patients treated with sucralfate than in patients receiving cimetidine (p = 0.044). The number of colony-forming units of Enterobacteriaceae in gastric aspirates was also significantly lower in the sucralfate group (p = 0.0037). 
A randomized trial of a single bolus dosage regimen of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. Experiments in animals have demonstrated that recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) produces continuing thrombolysis after it is cleared from the circulation and that thrombolysis is both increased and accelerated, and bleeding is reduced when rt-PA is administered over a short period. In previous studies in patients with thrombotic disease, rt-PA has been shown to be an effective thrombolytic agent when administered by continuous infusion over a period between 90 minutes and 8 hours. To determine whether a short course regimen of rt-PA can achieve thrombolysis, a double-blind randomized trial has been conducted in which patients with objectively established acute symptomatic pulmonary embolism who were receiving heparin were allocated to either a 2-minute infusion of rt-PA at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (33 patients) or saline placebo (25 patients). Perfusion lung scanning was used to assess the change in pulmonary perfusion at 24 hours and seven days post-study drug administration. Thirty-four percent of the rt-PA patients had a greater than 50 percent resolution in the perfusion defect at 24 hours compared to 12 percent of placebo patients (p = 0.026). At 24 hours, the mean relative improvement in the perfusion defect was 37.0 percent in rt-PA treated patients compared to 18.8 percent in the placebo group (p = 0.017). By day 7, no difference in lung scan resolution was detected between the groups. There were no major bleeds in either group nor were there any differences in transfusion requirements between groups. Minor bleeding occurred in 15 of the rt-PA patients mainly at angiogram-catheter insertion and venipuncture sites. These results suggest that a bolus regimen of rt-PA produces accelerated thrombolysis and provides an alternative and convenient approach to thrombolytic therapy in patients with pulmonary embolism. 
Endoscopic surgery for lacrimal obstruction. Intranasal access to the lacrimal drainage system has been greatly enhanced with the advent of endoscopic nasal surgery. This technique has been used for the treatment of recurrent lacrimal obstruction after failed external dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR) in 12 patients. Improved intranasal visualization with the endoscope allowed easy identification and opening of the lacrimal sac, with no need for a skin incision. Obstructing intranasal pathology, including adhesions from previous DCR, an enlarged middle turbinate, and ethmoid sinus disease, was readily identified and corrected. There were no intraoperative complications. Lacrimal obstruction was completely relieved in nine of 12 patients (75%), with a followup of 7 to 25 months. Endoscopic revision DCR should be considered in patients with recurrent epiphora after external DCR. 
Composition of atherosclerotic plaques in the four major epicardial coronary arteries in patients greater than or equal to 90 years of age. The composition of atherosclerotic plaques in 733 five-mm segments of the 4 major (left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex and right) epicardial coronary arteries of 18 patients greater than or equal to 90 years of age was determined by computerized planimetric analysis. By analysis of all coronary segments of all patients greater than 90, the plaques consisted primarily of fibrous tissue (87 +/- 8%) with calcific deposits (7 +/- 6%), pultaceous debris (5 +/- 4%) and foam cells (1 +/- 1%) occupying a much smaller percentage of plaque area. Analysis of composition according to the 4 degrees of luminal cross-sectional area narrowing revealed marked step-wise increases in pultaceous debris (from 0 +/- 0% at 0 to 25% narrowing to 18 +/- 22% at 76 to 100% narrowing, p = 0.0001) and calcific deposits (from 0 +/- 0 to 10 +/- 15%, p = 0.002), and decreases in fibrous tissue (from 99 +/- 3 to 71 +/- 23%, p = 0.0001) and area occupied by the media (from 35 +/- 8 to 16 +/- 8%, p = 0.0001). When the analysis was restricted to sections narrowed greater than 75%, no significant differences were found in plaque components or medial area between patients with (11 patients) and without (7 patients) myocardial infarcts at necropsy. 
Adenosquamous carcinoma of the pancreas: a clinicopathologic study. A total of eight patients with adenosquamous carcinoma of the pancreas were studied clinicopathologically. Histochemical and immunohistochemical studies were also done. The 8 patients were composed of 4 men and 4 women with a mean age of 56 years, which was 9 years younger than for other pancreatic carcinoma. The site of origin and size of the tumors were similar to those of usual pancreatic carcinoma. Histopathologically, all eight tumors showed an abrupt transition between adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Squamous cell carcinoma was located at the periphery of the tumors. Histochemistry and immunohistochemistry disclosed a different nature for both components. The cumulative 1-year survival rate of the 8 patients was 21.4%, compared to 42.1% of 72 with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. The survival curve of the 8 patients with adenosquamous carcinoma was significantly less favorable than that of 36 patients with well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. These facts support the view that squamous cell carcinoma in adenosquamous carcinoma of the pancreas is squamous cell metaplasia of the pre-existing adenocarcinoma. The clinical course of adenosquamous carcinoma of the pancreas was unfavorable. 
Unexplained chest pain and breathlessness. Complaints of chest pain and breathlessness are common in both primary care and medical outpatient settings. A subgroup of these patients who find their way into tertiary care settings and subsequently are found to have no relevant organic pathology are at risk of continuing morbidity. One possible reason for this is that diagnostic strategies often focus on establishing an organic cause of pain and ignore psychosocial factors. In this article I have attempted to describe not only the prevalence but also the clinical characteristics of patients with medically unexplained cardiorespiratory symptoms. A method of establishing a positive diagnosis of noncardiac chest pain has also been outlined. This is based on an interactive and overlapping model that takes into account not only a number of psychological and social factors but also current physical and cardiac risk factors. It is important for nonpsychiatric physicians to diagnose noncardiac pain at an earlier stage in the evolution of the disorder. This would have major beneficial effects for patients, including (1) fewer unnecessary investigations; (2) less distress and functional disability; (3) reduced cost to the hospital; and (4) fewer iatrogenic complications. 
Trial of flecainide acetate in the management of tinnitus. A two-phase trial of flecainide acetate in the management of tinnitus has been carried out in 22 patients with severe long-term tinnitus resistant to other treatments. Although 5 (23%) patients reported some limited benefit the results are not conclusive but suggest that, for such patients, flecainide deserves a place as a drug worth considering as a last resort, with the prospect of it occasionally giving a worthwhile degree of relief. 
Primary Raynaud's phenomenon in early childhood. Three young children, aged 17 months, 26 months and 29 months, presented with primary Raynaud's phenomenon. One was treated with nifedipine. Raynaud's phenomenon is rare in children and as a result experience in its treatment limited. Previously reported cases of childhood Raynaud's are reviewed, and approaches to management discussed. 
Six-year follow-up of early physiotherapy intervention in very low birth weight infants. Eighty very low birth weight infants assigned to neurologically normal or at-risk groups on the basis of a neurodevelopmental score were previously described. Infants were assigned to physiotherapy or control groups, and the effect of physiotherapy was assessed at 1 year. At-risk infants had a significantly lower developmental quotient than the normal group and no beneficial effect of physiotherapy was shown. Of the original 80 subjects, 49 were reassessed at a mean age of 74.7 months. As observed previously, physiotherapy until 1 year did not influence subsequent outcome in either normal or at-risk children. At-risk and normal children had similar mean developmental quotients at 6 years, but the locomotor score of at-risk children was significantly below that of normal children. Cerebral palsy occurred in 6 of 24 at-risk vs 0 of 25 normal subjects (P less than .01) and remedial therapy was recommended in 17 of 24 at-risk subjects vs 6 of 25 normal subjects (P less than .001). These results confirm that the neurodevelopmental score predicts a risk for either cerebral palsy or soft neurological problems, and early physiotherapy is of questionable benefit in preventing such problems. 
Dextran-70 versus albumin as plasma expanders in cirrhotic patients with tense ascites treated with total paracentesis. Results of a randomized study To investigate whether albumin can be substituted by less expensive plasma expanders in cirrhotic patients with tense ascites treated with total paracentesis, 88 patients (16 with renal failure) submitted to this therapeutic procedure were randomly assigned to receive IV albumin (43 patients) or dextran-70. Both substances were given at a dose of 8 g/L of ascitic fluid removed. Patients were discharged from the hospital with diuretics, and cases developing tense ascites during follow-up were treated according to their initial schedule. Total paracentesis was effective in eliminating the ascites in all but two cases in each group. Neither paracentesis plus IV albumin infusion nor paracentesis plus IV dextran-70 infusion was associated with significant changes in renal and hepatic function or serum electrolytes. The incidence of renal impairment (one case in each group), hyponatremia (three and four cases, respectively), and other complications (hepatic encephalopathy, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, bacterial infections) after paracentesis, and the clinical course of the disease as estimated by the probability of readmission to hospital during follow-up, causes of readmission, probability of survival, and causes of death were similar in the two groups of patients. The effect of paracentesis on effective intravascular volume was indirectly assessed by measuring plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentration before and 2 and 6 days after treatment, the patients being without diuretics. In patients treated with albumin, no significant changes in renin and aldosterone were observed during the entire period of observation. In contrast, both parameters increased significantly on the 6th day of treatment in patients receiving dextran-70. A significant increase in plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentration (30% over baseline values) was observed in 51% of patients treated with dextran-70 and in only 15% of those treated with albumin (x2 = 10.4; P = 0.0012). These results indicate that although dextran-70 is less efficacious than albumin in protecting cirrhotic patients treated with total paracentesis from the decrease in effective intravascular volume, it appears to be capable of preventing the renal and electrolyte complications induced by this therapeutic procedure. 
Diarrhea in children newly enrolled in day-care centers in Houston. Diarrhea is a common illness among children in day-care centers (DCC). We hypothesized that the incidence of diarrhea was greater among children in their first 1 or 2 months after enrollment in a DCC than in any subsequent period in day care. We followed 442 children younger than 2 years of age enrolled in 13 randomly selected DCCs for the occurrence of diarrhea during a 14 1/2-month period. Parents completed standardized baseline questionnaires and research nurses visited the DCC twice weekly to record the occurrence of diarrhea and to collect stool specimens. Incidence rates, rate ratios, chi square statistics and 95% confidence intervals were calculated for crude and stratified analyses. The diarrheal incidence rate of 4.4 cases/child-year in the first 4 weeks in the centers was significantly (rate ratio, 1.6; confidence interval, 1.3 to 2.1; P less than 0.01) higher than the 2.7 cases/child-year incidence rate of diarrhea in subsequent weeks. The effects of gender, ethnicity, age, DCC size, previous DCC attendance and season were examined and did not account for the association observed between recent enrollement and risk of diarrheal illness. Rotavirus was identified in 18% of cases of diarrhea, but no association was seen with recent enrollment in DCC. A significantly higher incidence of diarrhea occurred in males compared with females (P less than 0.002) and in younger children (P less than 0.001) compared with older children. Diarrhea is common in children in DCCs and occurs significantly more frequently in children during their first 4 weeks in a DCC. 
The influence of zinc status and malnutrition on immunological function in Crohn's disease. Cellular immunity is likely to be important in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease; whether it is abnormal is not clear. The heterogeneity of patients with Crohn's disease probably underlies the disparity of reports, but attempts to determine which clinical features influence cellular immunity have been largely unsuccessful. This is probably caused by the omission of nutritional status as a potential factor, even though zinc deficiency has frequently been linked with abnormal immunity. Therefore, a detailed study of nutritional and tissue zinc status, nonspecific cellular immunity, and a measure of phagocytic function was performed in 32 patients with Crohn's disease and in a control group of 18 normal subjects and 12 patients with anorexia nervosa. Fourteen patients with Crohn's disease, all patients with anorexia nervosa, but none of the normal controls were malnourished. Peripheral blood lymphocyte population levels were normal in patients with Crohn's disease and in normal controls, but there was a small decrease in the levels of patients with anorexia nervosa. In vivo delayed hypersensitivity skin test responses were profoundly depressed in patients with anorexia nervosa and decreased in patients with Crohn's disease who were malnourished or receiving systemic glucocorticoids. In vitro lymphocyte transformation was reduced in malnourished patients with Crohn's disease, but there were only minor changes in patients with anorexia nervosa. There were alterations of in vitro immunoregulation in Crohn's disease, but they were not responsible for the abnormal lymphocyte transformation responses in malnourished patients. In vitro phagocytic function was reduced in patients with active Crohn's disease. These findings suggest that depressed in vivo and in vitro cellular immunity in malnourished patients with Crohn's disease is caused by a qualitative lymphocyte defect and that depressed in vivo but normal in vitro cellular immunity in anorexia nervosa is caused by a quantitative defect. Thus, malnutrition in Crohn's disease resembles kwashiorkor; in anorexia nervosa, it resembles marasmus. Tissue zinc status was mostly normal in Crohn's disease and anorexia nervosa, and zinc deficiency was not responsible for depressed nonspecific cellular immunity in either condition. 
Prealbumin in the diagnosis of bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumours. The reliability of prealbumin as a diagnostic marker was studied in 60 cases of bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumours. There were differences in the incidence of positivity between typical and atypical carcinoids (well differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas). Seventy five per cent of the carcinoid tumours were positive for prealbumin; (86.7% typical and 63.3% atypical carcinoids). In 15 cases, which were Grimelius negative, 10 were prealbumin positive. Only 8.3% carcinoids were negative with both prealbumin and Grimelius stains. Ten squamous, 10 adeno- and 10 small cell carcinomas showed only occasional scattered prealbumin positive cells. It is concluded that prealbumin is a useful marker for bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumours. It is cheap, readily available, and should be considered part of routine diagnostic procedures for the diagnosis of carcinoid tumours. 
Hemifacial spasm in an infant due to fourth ventricular ganglioglioma. Case report. The case of an infant is reported in which hemifacial spasm due to a ganglioglioma of the fourth ventricle was relieved by surgery. Previously described causes of hemifacial spasm are summarized, and the relevance of this case to theories on the pathogenesis of the condition is discussed. 
Economies of scale, physician volume for urology patients, and DRG prospective hospital payment system. Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) hospital payment has begun to squeeze hospitals financially and is likely to do so in the future. This study analyzed the relationship between the volume of urologic procedures by an individual urologist, hospital costs per patient, and outcome. We used a three-year DRG database of urology patients (N = 2,980) at an academic medical center to analyze these. Low-volume urologists (arbitrarily defined by us) had higher hospital costs per patient, financial losses versus profits under DRGs, and a poorer outcome when compared with high-volume urologists. Pearson correlation showed a positive relationship between cost per patient and physician volume for nonemergency patients (-0.129, p less than 0.0001) and emergency patients (-0.368, p less than 0.0001). This may have been explained (in part) by a greater severity of illness for patients of low-volume urologists. These findings suggest, however, that the volume of urologic procedures per urologist may be related to hospital resource consumption. The health care financing environment of the future should provide substantial interest in this finding for those involved in the consumption of urologic services. 
Cerebrospinal fluid tumour markers in patients treated for meningeal malignancy. The results of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biochemical markers were compared with conventional CSF cytology in patients treated for leptomeningeal metastases from extra cranial malignancies. For lumbar CSF, before treatment, no statistically significant difference of the probabilities of being positive was found between CSF cytology and a classification by linear discriminant analysis, based on patient's age, of beta-glucuronidase and beta 2-microglobulin. During treatment, classification by linear discriminant analysis was found more often positive than cytology. Possible mechanisms for this difference are discussed. For ventricular CSF a correlation was found between CSF cytology and beta-glucuronidase for solid tumours, and between CSF cytology and beta 2-microglobulin for haematological malignancies. Reference values for ventricular protein, CEA beta-glucuronidase and beta 2-microglobulin were obtained for cytological negative samples. 
Blood pressure dysregulation associated with alcohol withdrawal. Alcoholics' blood pressures (BP) are typically elevated during withdrawal. Do such elevations predict future blood pressure dysregulation or are they simply a transitory effect of alcohol toxicity? Thirty-two patients admitted to the hospital for alcohol detoxification were tested to examine the relationship between admission BP and response to isometric handgrip administered 4 to 5 days (session 1) and 3 to 4 weeks (session 2) postdetoxification. Alcoholics were divided into three groups based on admission BPs: Hypertensive (HT, greater than or equal to 160/95 mmHg), Borderline Hypertensive (BHT, 140/90-159/94 mmHg), and Normotensive (NT, less than 140/90 mmHg). In sessions 1 and 2, the groups no longer differed on resting BP or heart rate (HR) but did differ on BP and HR response to handgrip: Compared with the NT group, the HT and BHT groups had greater rises in systolic and diastolic BP and HR. There was a trend for HT alcoholics to report a positive parental history of hypertension (91%) compared to BHT and NT alcoholics (64% and 60%, respectively), suggesting the existence of premorbid factors to this exaggerated cardiovascular response. Further, alcohol consumption, based on a quantity-frequency index, was significantly higher in the HT group than in the NT group. The results suggest that transitory elevations in blood pressure observed during alcohol withdrawal may predict future BP abnormalities. 
Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, morphea, and coexistence of both diseases. Histological studies using lectins. Histological studies using three lectins, lens culinaris agglutinin, soybean agglutinin, and Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I, were carried out in a case of coexistent lichen sclerosus et atrophicus and morphea, five cases of morphea, and two cases of lichen sclerosus et atrophicus. The lectin staining patterns of the formaldehyde-fixed epidermis of patients with morphea were not different from those of normal epidermis, but epidermis of patients with lichen sclerosus et atrophicus showed different staining patterns. Lens culinaris agglutinin stained the basal and the spinous layers of the normal epidermis and that of patients with morphea but stained only the basal cells of the epidermis from patients with lichen sclerosus et atrophicus; epidermal Ulex europaeus agglutinin binding was observed only in the cases of lichen sclerosus et atrophicus. Moreover, in the patient with coexistent diseases, the morphea lesion showed the staining profiles of morphea and the lichen sclerosus et atrophicus lesion showed the staining patterns of lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, respectively. 
Transient porphyrinemia in a liver transplant recipient. We report a case of acquired porphyrinemia in a liver transplant recipient. Thrombosis of the portal vein and hepatic artery led to massive necrosis of the patient's first donor liver, necessitating its removal. After an 18-hour anhepatic period, a second donor liver was transplanted. During this interval, the patient was warmed with an infrared heat lamp that emitted bright visible light. Following the anhepatic period, a photodistributed cutaneous erythema was noted. The level of total serum porphyrins during the anhepatic period was significantly elevated at 1.548 mumol/L (normal, less than 0.018 mumol/L). Fractionation showed that the levels of the hydrophobic porphyrins, coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin, were elevated, while the levels of the hydrophilic porphyrins remained normal. Following the successful second liver transplantation, the patient's porphyrin levels declined. This is the first reported case of acquired porphyrinemia in a liver transplant recipient. 
Thrombus within a submitral left ventricular aneurysm: diagnosis on cross sectional echocardiography. Subvalvar left ventricular aneurysms are rare and occur predominantly in black Africans. A submitral left ventricular aneurysm was diagnosed on cross sectional echocardiography in a black woman born in the United Kingdom. The left parasternal long axis view showed a highly echogenic mass apparently attached to the wall of a dilated left atrium, but the apical two-chamber view showed that this was thrombus in the apex of a left ventricular aneurysm. The patient subsequently underwent surgical correction. 
Interaction between methotrexate, "rescue" agents and cell proliferation as modulators of homocysteine export from cells in culture. Clinical studies on cancer and psoriasis patients have shown that plasma and urinary homocysteine (Hcy) responds to methotrexate (MTX) therapy, indicating that Hcy in extracellular fluids may be an indicator of the antifolate effect. However, the clinical data indicate that the burden of proliferating cells, cytotoxicity and the folate status are also determinants of extracellular Hcy. To evaluate this further, we investigated the modulation of cellular Hcy egress by MTX, rescue agents, cell proliferation and cytotoxicity. Nontransformed and chemically transformed fibroblasts and murine lymphoma cells, which are characterized by different growth behavior and MTX response, were used. The Hcy export rate was correlated positively with the proliferation rate in all cell types. 5-Formyltetrahydrofolate or 5-methyltetrahydrofolate added to fibroblasts not exposed to MTX reduced the Hcy export rate, whereas the export from the lymphoma cells was not affected. All cells types exposed to MTX were rescued by thymidine + hypoxanthine, and this allowed the assessment of Hcy export during MTX exposure without interference from cytotoxicity. In the fibroblasts, MTX with thymidine + hypoxanthine rescue induced a marked increase in Hcy export, and the dose-response paralleled the cytotoxicity curves obtained for MTX without rescue. Nontoxic concentrations of MTX without rescue enhanced the Hcy export. When MTX concentration was increased further, Hcy export was stimulated initially, and then declined rapidly as cell death ensued. MTX did not enhance the Hcy export from the lymphoma cells and, in the absence of rescue, the Hcy export from these cells declined in proportion to inhibition of cell growth. 
The causes of esophageal symptoms in human immunodeficiency virus infection. A prospective study of 110 patients. STUDY OBJECTIVES.--To determine the prevalence of infectious agents in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and odynophagia or dysphagia; the utility of endoscopic, histologic, cytologic, and virologic testing for the diagnosis of esophagitis; and the yield of blind brushings of the esophagus in this setting. DESIGN.--Prospective clinical case study. SETTING.--Urban county hospital. PATIENTS.--One hundred ten consecutive patients with esophageal symptoms and documented human immunodeficiency virus infection. INTERVENTION.--Blind brushing of the esophagus via orogastric tube followed by endoscopy with esophageal brushing for fungal stain, Papanicolau smear, and viral cultures and esophageal biopsies for histologic examination and viral culture. MAIN RESULTS.--Seventy-two (65%) of the 110 patients had a total of 100 esophageal infections. Thirty-three (30%) had Candida alone, 22 (20%) had Candida and cytomegalovirus, two (1.8%) had Candida with cytomegalovirus and herpes simplex virus, seven (6%) had cytomegalovirus alone, six (5%) had herpes simplex virus alone, and two (1.8%) had both viruses. Fifty of 55 patients with plaques alone had Candida, and two (4%) had only viral infection. Of 19 patients with erosions or ulcers, 11 (58%) had a viral infection, two (11%) had Candida alone, and six (30%) had no etiologic agent identified. The sensitivity of endoscopic brushings (95%) was better than that of histologic examination (70%) in the diagnosis of Candida esophagitis. Likewise, viral cultures of brushings or biopsy specimens were more sensitive (67%) than histologic examination (35%) for viral esophagitis. Blind brushing of the esophagus had a sensitivity and specificity for infectious esophagitis of 84% and 75%, respectively. Oral thrush had a sensitivity of 53% and a positive predictive value of 77% for Candida esophagitis. 
Effect of intra-arterial tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase on autologous arterial emboli in the cerebral circulation of rabbits [corrected] [published erratum appears in Stroke 1991 Feb;22(2):285] We conducted a randomized, blinded controlled trial to test the efficacy of fibrinolytic therapy with tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase in the treatment of acute embolic stroke. Embolic stroke was simulated in rabbits by injecting three 0.5 x 0.5 mm fragments of autologous arterial thrombus harvested from a traumatized auricular artery. Thirty minutes after embolization the rabbits were blindly treated with tissue plasminogen activator (n = 21), urokinase (n = 20), or 0.9% saline (n = 20). At 6 hours the rabbits were sacrificed, and the cerebral vasculature was inspected for the location and number of emboli. The brain was then cut into 0.5-cm-thick coronal sections and stained with triphenyltetrazolium chloride to define areas of infarction. Treatment with either tissue plasminogen activator or urokinase significantly reduced the number of emboli present in the cerebral circulation (p less than 0.05). The area of ischemic injury was also significantly reduced (p less than 0.05) by acute fibrinolytic therapy with either tissue plasminogen activator or urokinase. However, only treatment with tissue plasminogen activator significantly reduced (p less than 0.05) the incidence of infarction. There was no evidence of intracerebral hemorrhage in any rabbit. Early fibrinolytic therapy improved outcome in this model of acute embolic stroke. 
Characterizing organic delusional syndrome. We present a first comprehensive description of the clinical features of patients with organic delusional syndrome. This description is based on information from 39 patients with organic delusional syndrome among 14,889 patients who presented for initial evaluation over a 5-year period at our institution. This description includes an enumeration of the common clinical symptoms of this syndrome and the respective prevalence and mean severity of each symptom. The severity of the symptoms of organic delusional syndrome are compared with those of schizophrenia to determine which symptoms distinguish between these two diagnostic categories. Patients with organic delusional syndrome demonstrated significantly more symptoms of "acquired intellectual impairment," "impaired sensorium," and "hallucinations of smell, taste, or touch," while schizophrenic patients demonstrated more "flat affect," "emotional coldness," and "thought disorganization." In addition, associated factors are presented concerning demographics, modes of treatment, level of functioning, and current physical problems associated with organic delusional syndrome. 
Correlation between histology and nerve excitability after reinnervation of paralyzed strap muscles in the rabbit. We have recently shown that the mean muscle chronaxie for nerve pedicle implanted into denervated rabbit strap muscle is comparable to that of normal nerve. This study correlates excitability with histologic characteristics of muscles reinnervated via nerve-muscle pedicles (NMP) and direct nerve implants (DNI). Strength duration curves were measured in 13 rabbits 3.5 to 5 months after reinnervation by NMP (n = 6) and DNI (n = 7). Following this, control (n = 5) and reinnervated straps were harvested immediately before the animals were killed and frozen in liquid nitrogen. The material was submitted for hematoxylin-eosin stains as well as trichrome stains for general morphology, myofibrillar ATPase and NADH for fiber typing, and cholinesterase for determination of denervated fibers. In all animals with low chronaxie, expected type grouping from reinnervation was noted (n = 10). By contrast, the three animals in which chronaxie was abnormally elevated demonstrated fibrosis, inflammation, and absence of or poor type grouping. This suggests that type grouping is necessary for excitability after reinnervation of paralyzed striated muscles. 
Clenbuterol plus acivicin decrease tumor growth and increase muscle mass in rats maintained on total parenteral nutrition. Two problems associated with supplemental nutrition of tumor-bearing organisms are control of tumor growth and reduction of cachexia. To investigate these problems, rats bearing methylcholanthrene-induced sarcomas were maintained on total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for 10 to 12 days beginning 23 days after tumor inoculation. Combined treatment of one group of these rats with the glutamine antimetabolite, acivicin, and the beta 2-adrenergic agonist, clenbuterol, arrested tumor growth, increased skeletal muscle mass and protein content, increased gut mass, and decreased total plasma lipid levels. Resting energy expenditure and cardiac mass were increased by TPN and were increased further by acivicin plus clenbuterol. These results demonstrate that tumor growth and muscle wasting can be controlled during TPN of tumor-bearing organisms. Therefore, cachectic depletion of lean body tissue may not be obligatory in neoplastic disease. 
Jaw pain and tenderness levels during and after repeated sustained maximum voluntary protrusion. Eight normal male volunteers performed 4 repeated sustained voluntary isometric protrusive jaw muscle contractions of 25, 50, 75 and 100% of maximum effort. Each contraction was sustained until maximum pain tolerance was reached, and all 4 contractions were completed within a single 120-min experimental period. A 30-min rest period followed each sustained contraction. The following measurements were made before and 1, 2, 3, and 7 days after the experiment: (1) superficial masseter and anterior temporalis muscle pain threshold; (2) maximum active pain-free jaw opening and lateral excursion; and (3) current overall jaw pain level. None of these measurements showed any significant post-experimental changes. Contrary to common clinical belief, these results suggest that in healthy male subjects, significant jaw pain and tenderness following repeated sustained isometric protrusion efforts are difficult to induce. 
CT-guided percutaneous transpedicular biopsy of the spine. Occasionally, vertebral body lesions are encountered that are ill suited to the standard posterolateral approach to biopsy. The authors used a transpedicular approach to spine biopsy in six such cases. The authors suggest that this approach be used when the location of the lesion does not allow easy access by means of the posterolateral approach. 
A review of hemoglobin and the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm. We believe that current experimental and clinical evidence can be most satisfactorily interpreted by assuming that oxyhemoglobin is the cause of cerebral vasospasm that follows subarachnoid hemorrhage. We review the pathogenetic mechanisms by which oxyhemoglobin affects cerebral arteries. The relative importance of each of these mechanisms in the genesis of vasospasm, the biochemical pathways of oxyhemoglobin-induced smooth muscle contraction, and the intracellular actions of oxyhemoglobin on smooth muscle and on other cells in arteries are still not definitely established. 
Incidence of pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients treated with sucralfate or cimetidine as prophylaxis for stress bleeding: bacterial colonization of the stomach. Retrograde colonization of the oropharynx from the stomach by microaspiration of gastric fluid is a recently recognized phenomenon associated with increased gastric pH that may result in pneumonia during ventilation therapy. In a prospective study we investigated 104 mechanically ventilated patients in the intensive care unit who were receiving sucralfate (n = 49) or cimetidine (n = 55) for stress ulcer prophylaxis. The incidence of pneumonia was 45.5% (25 patients) in the cimetidine group and 26.5% (13 patients) in the sucralfate group (95% confidence interval 0.98 to 6.97; odds ratio 2.61; p = 0.0549). Mortality rates were 18.4% (9 patients) in the sucralfate group versus 25.5% (14 patients) in the cimetidine group (p = 0.48). The mean pH values of gastric aspirates were significantly lower in patients treated with sucralfate than in patients receiving cimetidine (p = 0.044). The number of colony-forming units of Enterobacteriaceae in gastric aspirates was also significantly lower in the sucralfate group (p = 0.0037). 
Effect of heparin on coronary arterial patency after thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator in acute myocardial infarction. Infarct artery patency rates at 90 minutes after coronary thrombolysis using recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) with and without concurrent heparin anticoagulation have been shown to be comparable. The contribution of heparin to efficacy and safety after thrombolysis with rt-PA is unknown. In this pilot study, 84 patients were treated within 6 hours of onset of acute myocardial infarction (mean of 2.7 hours) with the standard dose of 100 mg of rt-PA over 3 hours. Forty-two patients were randomized to receive additionally immediate intravenous heparin anticoagulation (5,000 U of intravenous bolus followed by 1,000 U/hour titrated to a partial thromboplastin time of 1.5 to 2.0 times control) while 42 patients received rt-PA alone. Coronary angiography performed on day 3 (48 to 72 hours, mean 57) after rt-PA therapy revealed infarct artery patency rates of 71 and 43% in anticoagulated and control patients, respectively (p = 0.015). Recurrent ischemia or infarction, or both, occurred in 3 (7.1%) anticoagulated patients and 5 (11.9%) control patients (difference not significant). Mild, moderate and severe bleeding occurred in 52, 10 and 2% of the group receiving anticoagulation, respectively, and 34, 2 and 0% of patients in the control group, respectively (p = 0.006). These data indicate that after rt-PA therapy of acute myocardial infarction, heparin therapy is associated with substantially higher coronary patency rates 3 days after thrombolysis but is accompanied by an increased incidence of minor bleeding complications. 
Predictors of left atrial thrombus in mitral valve disease OBJECTIVE: To determine the risk factors for left atrial thrombus (LAT) and the prevalence of thrombi in cases of mitral valve disease whose severity was judged to necessitate surgical intervention. DESIGN: Hospital record review of all operative cases from 1982 to 1985. SETTING: A community serving a referral population encompassing 1.5 million people. Only two hospitals in the geographic area performed cardiac surgery, and both hospitals' records were reviewed. PATIENTS: All 372 patients who underwent either mitral valve replacement or open mitral commissurotomy. MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-six patients (7%) were noted to have LAT at surgery. Five preselected factors were significantly (p less than 0.05) associated with LAT in univariate analysis: female gender, prior history of embolism, prior anticoagulant therapy, mitral stenosis (MS), and atrial fibrillation (AF). In logistic regression analysis, only MS and AF remained as significant independent predictors of LAT. Mitral stenosis patients in sinus rhythm had a relatively low [2.4 +/- 3.3% (observed +/- 95% confidence interval)] likelihood of having an LAT. Likewise, mitral regurgitation patients in sinus rhythm (n = 139) had an extremely low (0.7 +/- 1.4%) prevalence of LAT. In contrast, MS patients in AF (n = 122) had a prevalence of LAT of 18.0 +/- 6.8%. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that, overall, LAT in mitral valve disease may be less common than previous studies have suggested. In addition, mitral valve disease patients who remain in sinus rhythm appear to have a low risk of harboring an LAT. Conversely, MS patients, especially those in AF, appear to be at high risk of harboring an LAT. These results may be helpful in formulating strategies for the use of prophylactic anticoagulation in categories of patients with clinically severe mitral valve disease, or perhaps in estimating the likelihood of a cardiac source of embolism in mitral valve disease patients with suspected cerebral or peripheral emboli. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery for squamous cell carcinoma of the nasopharynx. Stereotactic radiosurgery using the gamma unit represents a unique neurosurgical treatment method for the management of selected intracranial vascular malformations and tumors. During a closed-skull single-session procedure that focuses 201 individual beams of gamma irradiation, a high-radiation dose is delivered to the lesion, with a steep dose fall-off peripherally. In order to maintain accuracy of delivery, the target must remain fixed in space; hence the skull is engaged by rigid external fixation during treatment. In this report, we document the first extracranial lesion treated with radiosurgery, a recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of Rosenmuller's fossa, and discuss the possible role of radiosurgery in carefully selected head and neck malignancies. 
The association of IgA glomerulonephritis and thin glomerular basement membrane disease in a hematuric patient: light and electron microscopic and immunofluorescence investigation. A double glomerulopathy (IgA glomerulonephritis [IgAGN] associated with thin glomerular basement membrane disease [TGBMD]) is reported in a 39-year-old woman presenting with macroscopic-microscopic hematuria. Her 3-year-old daughter was also affected by microhematuria of probable glomerular origin. The diagnosis of IgAGN was made by means of immunofluorescence investigation, which showed generalized diffuse mesangial deposits. TGBMD was identified by electron microscopic investigations, which disclosed thinning (up to 160 nm) of basement membrane of several capillary loops and prominence of the lamina densa. Bearing in mind the known frequencies of the two glomerulopathies, their association may not be coincidental, and, therefore, is worthwhile researching in hematuric patients. 
Chronic calcific pancreatitis in a patient with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. We report on a patient with chronic calcific pancreatitis associated with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and we have hypothesized a possible relationship between these two entities. The hyperviscosity of serum in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia may be associated with a viscous pancreatic juice that leads to stone formation. 
Adjusting the dose to the individual response of the patient during the induction of ovulation with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone. To identify the effective dose of intravenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone necessary to induce ovulation in patients with chronic anovulation of diverse etiology, 40 women were subdivided into four groups: idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), functional hypothalamic amenorrhea, normoandrogenic oligomenorrhea, and polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). During 90 treatment cycles, the dose was the only parameter that was progressively adjusted. The overall ovulation rate per cycle was 100% in IHH, functional hypothalamic amenorrhea, and normoandrogenic oligomenorrhea, using only 5 micrograms/90 minutes in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea and normoandrogenic oligomenorrhea and up to 7.5 micrograms/90 minutes in IHH. In PCOS, the ovulation rate was 67.6%, using up to 20 micrograms/90 minutes. The lesser degree of effectiveness observed in PCOS can probably be explained by the different basal endocrine profile presented by these subjects. 
Epileptic palatal myoclonus. Palatal myoclonus (PM) is usually caused by lesions of the brainstem. We report a case of PM of focal cortical origin in a patient with epilepsia partialis continua. The PM sometimes occurred in isolation, and at other times was accompanied by unilateral face, neck, and arm twitching. This was documented by both EEG and SPECT. 
Nutrition and alcoholic liver disease. While the rate of malnutrition is relatively modest in alcoholic patients without alcoholic liver disease, the rate of malnutrition is virtually 100% in patients with alcoholic hepatitis and/or alcoholic cirrhosis. The reasons for malnutrition in the alcoholic hepatitis patient include various factors such as anorexia, poor diet, malabsorption, and altered metabolic state. When the patient is hospitalized, the malnutrition frequently worsens because of fasting for tests, continued anorexia, and complications such as gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with severe acute hepatitis appear to be both hypermetabolic and hypercatabolic, whereas data are much more conflicting concerning patients with more stable liver disease. Most studies suggest that patients with alcoholic liver disease require at least 60 g of protein per day to maintain positive nitrogen balance. Consistent alterations in plasma amino acid profiles occur in alcoholic liver disease, and specialized nutritional formulations have been devised to correct this amino acid profile with the intent of improving overall nutritional status, hepatic encephalopathy, and mortality. The effects of nutritional support (including use of specialized products) on outcome, on acute hepatic encephalopathy, and on chronic or latent portal systemic encephalopathy are reviewed. 
Comparison of mastectomy and lumpectomy for medial carcinoma of the breast. The recurrence and five year disease-free survival rates of 86 patients with carcinoma of the breast located in the medial quadrants who had either lumpectomy and radiotherapy or mastectomy were compared. Patients who had lumpectomy and mastectomy were comparable with respect to variables reflecting extent of the disease. One of 54 patients who had lumpectomy had a local recurrence and five had a recurrence regionally or at distant sites. In the group of 32 patients who had a mastectomy, one patient had a local recurrence and an additional four patients had a recurrence at other sites. The five year study disease-free survival rate was 83 per cent for the lumpectomy group and 78 per cent for the mastectomy group. These data suggest that, for medial quadrant lesions, there may be a disease-free survival advantage associated with lumpectomy and radiotherapy over mastectomy. Further study of this treatment modality for this subset of patients seems indicated. 
Mechanisms of gastro-oesophageal reflux in cystic fibrosis. Abnormal degrees of gastro-oesophageal reflux (GOR) were detected by 24 hour intraoesophageal pH measurement in 12 of 14 children (mean age 7.9 years; range 5 months-16 years) affected by cystic fibrosis and complaining of symptoms suggesting GOR. These patients underwent combined recording of distal oesophageal motility and intraluminal pH in order to investigate mechanisms of GOR. Inappropriate lower oesophageal sphincter relaxation was the most common mechanism of reflux in all patients. Other mechanisms (appropriate relaxation or lowered pressure of the lower oesophageal sphincter, increased intragastric pressure) were detected less frequently. Frequency of inappropriate lower oesophageal sphincter relaxations was significantly higher in patients with cystic fibrosis than in other study groups (symptomatic GOR, GOR disease complicated by respiratory complaints). Inappropriate lower oesophageal sphincter relaxations occurred with the same frequency in patients with cystic fibrosis and in a group of children with GOR disease complicated by oesophagitis. Abnormalities of distal oesophageal contractions such as decreased amplitude or uncoordinated waves were also recorded in cystic fibrosis patients. Seven patients with cystic fibrosis completed a therapeutic trial for eight weeks consisting of postural treatment and oral cisapride, a new prokinetic drug. The oesophageal acid exposure improved in only three patients. We conclude that pathologic GOR is commonly associated with cystic fibrosis. The predominant reflux mechanism in these patients is a transient inappropriate lower oesophageal sphincter relaxation rather than a low steady state basal lower oesophageal sphincter pressure. 
Effects of phosphatidylserine in age-associated memory impairment. We treated 149 patients meeting criteria for age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) for 12 weeks with a formulation of phosphatidylserine (100 mg BC-PS tid) or placebo. Patients treated with the drug improved relative to those treated with placebo on performance tests related to learning and memory tasks of daily life. Analysis of clinical subgroups suggested that persons within the sample who performed at a relatively low level prior to treatment were most likely to respond to BC-PS. Within this subgroup, there was improvement on both computerized and standard neuropsychological performance tests, and also on clinical global ratings of improvement. The results suggest that the compound may be a promising candidate for treating memory loss in later life. 
The benefit to cost ratio of work-site blood pressure control programs. Reduction in the cost of health care claims among hypertensive employees was examined over a 4-year period after exposure to a 3-year blood pressure control program, to see whether work-site monitoring and counseling produced a subsequent benefit. Hypertensive employees at three experimental sites (N = 183 to 367 subjects) were compared with subjects at a control site (N = 169) who had received no postscreening follow-up or monitoring, and with matched normotensive employees. The cost of subsequent health care claims for hypertensive employees at the experimental sites was lower than claims for those at the control site, but there was no significant difference across the sites in claims for normotensive employees. After adjusting to a standard 1982 dollar, the data showed from $1.89 to $2.72 in reduced health care claims per dollar spent operating the hypertension control program. 
Aqueduct block markedly reduces mortality and hypertension in post-deoxycorticosterone acetate Dahl salt-resistant rats. When Dahl salt-resistant (DR) rats are given mild post-deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) hypertension, they will have, within 8 weeks, a 53% mortality on a high NaCl diet, without a rise of blood pressure. Forty-two DR rats were given DOCA in silicone (250 mg/kg) and 1% NaCl to drink. After 4 weeks, the DOCA and 1% saline were removed and replaced with a low NaCl diet and tap water. One week later, they were divided into two groups perfectly matched for blood pressure (154 mm Hg). One group had the aqueduct of Sylvius blocked with silicone and epoxy materials; the other group had a sham block. After 4 more recovery weeks on a low NaCl diet, blood pressure averaged 171 mm Hg in sham rats and 147 mm Hg in truly blocked rats (p less than 0.0001). Thus, the aqueduct block prevented most of the post-DOCA hypertension and permitted a strong post-DOCA recovery from the acute DOCA hypertension. The rats with the sham block had an actual rise in blood pressure during the post-DOCA recovery period. The vicious cycle leading to permanent post-DOCA NaCl hypertension was broken by the aqueduct block. Then both groups began an 8% high NaCl diet, and after 4 weeks, blood pressure averaged 184 mm Hg in sham and 155 mm Hg in truly blocked rats (p less than 0.0001). After 12 weeks on 8% NaCl, all sham rats had died (28 of 28), whereas only one of 14 truly blocked rats had died (93% reduction in mortality, p less than 0.0001). 
Animal models for arterial thrombolysis and prevention of reocclusion. Erythrocyte-rich versus platelet-rich thrombus. Experimental animal models for erythrocyte-rich (ER) and platelet-rich (PR) arterial thrombosis were developed in dogs and rabbits and used for the evaluation of the effect of antithrombin and antiplatelet agents on thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activators (rt-PA). The canine models consist of a whole blood clot produced in the left anterior descending coronary artery (ER thrombus) or a 1-cm everted (inside-out) segment graft in the circumflex coronary artery that predisposes to occlusion with PR material (PR thrombus). The rabbit models consist of a femoral arterial whole blood clot (ER thrombus) or a femoral arterial eversion graft (PR thrombus). The whole blood clot models are sensitive to recanalization with rt-PA but are consistently associated with reocclusion, notwithstanding the concomitant use of heparin and/or aspirin. Clot lysis is accelerated and reocclusion is prevented by the administration of F(ab')2 fragments of a monoclonal antibody 7E3 directed against the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor; of Argatroban, a synthetic thrombin inhibitor; or of kistrin, a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-blocking polypeptide from the Malayan pit viper venom. The PR thrombus models are very resistant to recanalization with rt-PA, but this resistance can be overcome by the concomitant use of the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-blocking antibody. Thus, selective platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are more effective than aspirin, heparin, or both in accelerating arterial thrombolysis with rt-PA; in preventing reocclusion after clot lysis; and in overcoming the resistance of PR thrombus to dispersion with rt-PA. These experimental animal models may be useful in the development of improved thrombolytic strategies using plasminogen activators in conjunction with specifically targeted antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents. 
Increasing incidence of coeliac disease in Sweden. Changes in the incidence of coelic disease was studied among children born in Goteborg, Sweden, between 1970 and 1988. A total of 188 patients with coeliac disease were found. Of these, 83% were less than 2 years old at the time of their first duodenal biopsy and 74% of them have so far been verified according to the criteria of the European Society for Gastroenterology and Nutrition (ESPGAN). The cumulative incidence at 2 years of age/1000 liveborn infants increased significantly from 0.31 in the first birth cohort to 2.93 in the last. This increase could only partly be explained by improvements in detection. Weight for age at diagnosis was generally considerably below the reference value, but was slightly less affected towards the end of the period. The increase in incidence of coeliac disease is the first reported since the middle 1970s and makes the disease one of the most common chronic diseases among Swedish children. 
Fatal theophylline poisoning with rhabdomyolysis. A potential role for dantrolene treatment. A fatal case of theophylline poisoning is described. The patient developed rhabdomyolysis, renal failure and compartment syndrome, as well as the more usual features of severe theophylline poisoning. Dantrolene appeared to be useful in controlling the hypermetabolic state associated with the overdose and may have a role in future treatment. 
Unusual cause of intranasal injury. Intranasal injury without external involvement is not common. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of such an injury, caused by an assailant's two fingers forced up the nostrils of our patient causing severe mucosal laceration and excessive bleeding. The patient died two weeks later. 
Delayed cardiac rupture due to blunt chest trauma. A 7-year-old boy fell from a 2.5-m height and suffered contusion of the thorax with hematoma in the soft tissues of the lateral chest wall. The rib cage itself remained intact. After 3 days, there was only local pressure sensitivity of the left hemithorax. On day 8 after the trauma, the child, who up to then had seemed to be in good health, suddenly died during lessons at school. Autopsy revealed a full-thickness rupture of the left ventricle with resultant cardiac tamponade. The macroscopic and histopathologic findings are presented and discussed. 
Mechanism of the enhanced epidermal growth factor-induced growth response of genetically hypertensive vascular myocytes. Although enhanced growth of the vascular myocyte is believed to play a role in hypertensive cardiovascular disease, the cellular basis of altered growth regulation is not completely understood. The present study demonstrates that in the presence of 10% fetal calf serum, the logarithmic growth rate of cultured mesenteric artery myocytes of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) is similar to that of the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) control rat. However, in the presence of low levels of fetal calf serum, SHR myocytes respond to epidermal growth factor (EGF) with increased growth, whereas WKY cells do not. This difference does not result from different numbers or affinities of EGF receptors in these cell lines. Examination of EGF-induced growth responses of SHR and WKY myocytes in the presence of varying levels of insulin or fetal calf serum indicates that, compared with WKY myocytes, SHR myocytes have a lower requirement for factors that confer competence to respond to EGF. Another property of the SHR myocytes is an elevation of free intracellular Ca2+. To determine whether a difference in cellular Ca2+ metabolism might play a role in the differential growth response, growth of myocytes in medium containing 0.25, 0.75, or 1.25 mM extracellular Ca2+ and 5% fetal calf serum was examined. Myocytes of SHR showed enhanced growth in the presence of 5% fetal calf serum at all levels of extracellular Ca2+. It is concluded that, although vascular myocytes of SHR and WKY rats have the capacity to grow at similar rates, under limiting conditions, the SHR myocyte growth response is enhanced. 
Nursery Neurobiologic Risk Score: important factor in predicting outcome in very low birth weight infants. We developed a nursery Neurobiologic Risk Score (NBRS) based on potential mechanisms of brain cell injury in preterm infants and correlated it with developmental outcome at the corrected ages of 6, 15, and 24 months. The NBRS was determined at 2 weeks of age and at the time of discharge from intensive care in 58 preterm infants with birth weights less than or equal to 1500 gm. The NBRS correlated significantly with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development, Mental Development Index (MDI) (r = -0.61 to -0.40) and Psychomotor Development Index (PDI) (r = -0.59 to -0.46), and with abnormal neurologic examination findings (r = 0.59 to 0.73) at the three testing periods. Although 12 of the 13 items composing the NBRS individually correlated with one or more outcome variables, seven items (infection, blood pH, seizures, intraventricular hemorrhage, assisted ventilation, periventricular leukomalacia, and hypoglycemia) accounted for almost all of the explained variance. Logistic regression of individual items demonstrated intraventricular hemorrhage to be the most important item for predicting the MDI at 24 months; pH was the most influential item for predicting the PDI at every testing period. A shorter, revised NBRS that included only the seven significant items demonstrated as strong a correlation with developmental outcome as the original NBRS. A revised 2-week score of greater than or equal to 5 or a discharge score of greater than or equal to 6 demonstrated 100% specificity and had a 100% positive predictive value for an abnormal outcome at 24 months of age in this group of infants. We conclude that the NBRS identifies during the intensive care nursery stay those infants at highest risk for an abnormal outcome related to nursery events. In addition, analysis of NBRS items provides insight into the relative importance of individual factors for influencing mental, motor, and neurologic outcome. 
The role of corticosteroids in infants and children with bacterial meningitis. Bacterial meningitis continues to be a cause of substantial morbidity in infants and children. Hearing impairment is the most common sequela of this disease. Corticosteroids have been used in an attempt to reduce the incidence of meningitis-induced hearing loss. Some studies have demonstrated a decrease in the incidence of hearing impairment in patients treated with cefuroxime plus dexamethasone compared with cefuroxime alone. Similar data are lacking for other frequently used antibiotics. Based on these studies, the use of dexamethasone should be considered in infants and children greater than two months of age with suspected bacterial meningitis. Critical issues including the timing of steroid initiation in relation to antibiotic therapy and the appropriate antibiotic-corticosteroid regimen must be addressed. Studies should be performed to define the exact role of corticosteroids in the treatment of bacterial meningitis. Until additional data are available, we recommend the use of dexamethasone in pediatric patients older than two months of age with bacterial meningitis. 
Selection bias in the use of thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. The SAVE Investigators. OBJECTIVE. To determine whether clinical selection for thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction results in a skewed population for subsequent adverse cardiovascular events. DESIGN. A comparison of the clinical features of the patients in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Study who either had or had not received thrombolytic therapy was conducted in both univariate and multiple logistic regression analyses. SETTING. Hospitalized patients experiencing acute myocardial infarction from 112 broadly representative, private, academic, and government hospitals in the United States and Canada. PATIENTS. All patients in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Study had had a recent myocardial infarction (less than 16 days) and had a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less. INTERVENTION. Thrombolytic therapy was administered to 733 patients and was not given to 1498. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES. The comparisons with respect to use of thrombolytic therapy were formulated after the completion of enrollment and indicated that the majority of patients did not receive thrombolytic therapy. RESULTS. The 1498 (67.1%) patients who did not receive thrombolytic therapy were at higher risk (older age, lower functional capacity, greater likelihood of a history of prior myocardial infarction, angina, diabetes, and hypertension) for subsequent cardiovascular events and, as anticipated, were more likely to have concomitant gastrointestinal and neurological diseases. A multiple logistic regression analysis indicated that older age, prior myocardial infarction, impaired functional status, employment status, diabetes, and neurological diseases were predictors of use of thrombolytic therapy. CONCLUSION. Although the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Study population was selected for left ventricular dysfunction, the majority of patients who currently are judged clinically as unsuitable for thrombolytic therapy have a higher risk for adverse cardiovascular events. 
SCID mice: a suitable model for experimental studies of urologic malignancies. In vivo studies on human malignant tumors are limited because of a lack of suitable animal models. In this study, the usefulness of SCID (severe combined immunodeficiency) mice, deficient in functions of both T- and B-lymphocytes, was evaluated. Inbred SCID mice were kept in isolated cages and 2 x 10(7) cells of KU-7, an established bladder carcinoma cell line, were inoculated in the subcutaneous tissue of the flank region of six SCID mice. Athymic nude mice were inoculated by the same method and served as the controls. The KU-7 cells were taken within 14 days in the injected region in all six SCID mice, while in only five out of eight nude mice. Tumors subsequently formed at the site of inoculation in these mice were confirmed to be transitional cell carcinomas histologically and intra-abdominal metastases were noted in two SCID mice. We conclude that SCID mice provide an ideal in vivo model for experimental studies of human urologic malignant tumors. 
Bilateral anterior cerebral artery infarction resulting from explosion-type injury to the head and neck. A 43-year-old woman suffered a blast-type injury to the head and neck. She subsequently developed bilateral internal carotid artery occlusion and bilateral anterior cerebral artery infarction not demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging scan 24 hours after the explosion, but confirmed by a second scan 8 days after the explosion. In patients with blast-type injury to the head and neck who develop coma with a nonfocal neurological exam, the possibility of bilateral carotid artery occlusion and bilateral ischemic infarction should be considered. 
Synthesis of chondrocytic keratan sulphate-containing proteoglycans by human chondrosarcoma cells in long-term cell culture [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Sep;73(8):1274] Keratan sulphate is an integral component of the large aggregating proteoglycans of mature human articular cartilage. The keratan sulphate content of chondrocytic proteoglycans increases during maturation, and it is a useful marker of mature-type chondrocytic proteoglycans. Ordinarily, in cell culture, chondrocytes from non-neoplastic tissues dedifferentiate, diminish or cease to synthesize aggregating proteoglycans with the same amount of keratan sulphate as those formed in vivo, and do not maintain their in vivo phenotype. In tissue culture, this down-regulation of synthesis of keratan sulphate is irreversible. The study of the metabolism of mature human chondrocytes has been hampered by the absence of stable models. We report a cell-line, 105KC, derived from a human chondrosarcoma, that has maintained a stable proteoglycan phenotype during more than three years of culture. Analysis with immunofluorescence suggested that 105KC cells continued to synthesize keratan sulphate in long-term culture. Biochemical analysis demonstrated that 105KC cells maintained the production of chondrocytic large-aggregating proteoglycans and that keratan sulphate composed 13 per cent of their glycosaminoglycan content. To our knowledge, 105KC represents the first model to have maintained the post-fetal chondrocytic proteoglycan phenotype in stable culture. This study documents the feasibility of the development of mature chondrocytic cell-lines and sheds light on the biological characteristics of chondrosarcomas. 
Doppler and echocardiographic characteristics of patients having an Austin Flint murmur. BACKGROUND. The purpose of this study was to investigate the genesis of the Austin Flint murmur using Doppler and echocardiographic imaging. METHODS AND RESULTS. A total of 51 patients having significant aortic insufficiency and an anatomically normal mitral valve were evaluated. They were divided into two groups; 30 patients had an audible Austin Flint murmur (AFM+) and 21 did not (AFM-). All patients had a complete M-mode, two-dimensional, and Doppler echocardiographic examination to characterize left ventricular size and function, motion of the mitral valve, transmitral flow velocities, direction of the aortic insufficiency jet, and severity of aortic insufficiency. There was no significant difference in severity of aortic insufficiency between groups. There was, however, a significant difference in direction of the insufficiency jet. In the AFM+ group compared with the AFM- group, for the parasternal long-axis view 24 (80%) versus eight (38%) had their insufficiency jet directed at the mitral valve, for the apical five-chamber view the values were 25 (83%) versus five (24%), and for the apical long-axis view the values were 27 (90%) versus five (24%); for all comparisons p less than 0.01. There was also a greater frequency of localized anterior mitral leaflet distortion by two-dimensional echocardiography (AFM+:23 [77%] versus AFM-:five [24%]; p less than 0.001) and a greater frequency of Doppler striations overlying the aortic insufficiency jet (AFM+:25 [83%] versus AFM-:seven [33%]; p less than 0.001). Regarding transmitral flow velocities, there was no significant difference in filling patterns or absolute velocities during early or late diastole between groups. There was no gradient by Doppler analysis or by hemodynamics (n = 26) across the mitral valve in either group. There also was no difference in the frequency of preclosure of the mitral valve (AFM+:two versus AFM-:three). Systolic function was similar in both groups, but the left ventricular end-diastolic dimension was significantly greater in the AFM+ group (6.8 +/- 0.8 cm) than in the AFM- group (6.2 +/- 0.7 cm, p = 0.008). CONCLUSIONS. The results of this study suggest that the primary factor responsible for the Austin Flint murmur is the presence of an aortic insufficiency jet directed at the anterior mitral leaflet. This, combined with the biphasic pattern of transmitral flow, distorts the shape of the anterior mitral leaflet as it opens and closes during diastole, making it shudder. The leaflet's shuddering sets up vibrations and shock waves that distort the aortic insufficiency jet, causing the observed Doppler striations and probably the sound of the murmur. There is no evidence from this study to support prior theories that have proposed functional mitral stenosis or diastolic mitral regurgitation as the source of the murmur. 
Acoustic discrimination of three types of infant cries. The ability of acoustic characteristics, both separately and in linear combination with others, to differentiate among procedural pain-induced, hungry, and fussy crying was explored using audiorecordings of cries from healthy 2 to 4-month-old infants. Fussy cries were less tense than hungry or pain-induced cries and pain-induced cries had significantly stronger second formant amplitudes than fussy or hungry cries. Formants and tenseness were important contributors to a linear combination of acoustic measures, derived from discriminant function analysis, which correctly classified 74% of the procedural pain-induced crying specimens. The inability of this linear combination of acoustic measures to identify correctly approximately one-third of the cry specimens suggests that the discrete acoustic differences among the three situationally defined types of crying is not large. 
Hemorrhage and intracranial hypertension in combination increase cerebral production of thromboxane A2. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: To determine the effects of reduced cerebral perfusion pressures produced by hemorrhage alone or in combination with intracranial hypertension on thromboxane A2 (TxA2) production, we undertook a randomized study in 38 anesthetized, mongrel dogs. Animals were subjected to 30 mins of hemorrhagic shock with normal (group 1) or increased (group 2) intracranial pressure (ICP). Group 1 animals (n = 22) were hemorrhaged to reduce cerebral perfusion pressure to 40 mm Hg for 30 mins. In group 2 (n = 16), cerebral perfusion pressure was reduced by the combination of less severe hypotension and intracranial hypertension (20 mm Hg). Cerebral and systemic hemodynamic measurements were recorded, including cerebral blood flow (sagittal sinus outflow method); ICP; cerebral perfusion pressure; and arterial and cerebral venous concentrations of TxB2 (double-antibody radioimmunoassay technique), the major metabolite of TxA2. Data were obtained at baseline and at the beginning and end of the 30-min shock period. RESULTS: Hemorrhagic shock significantly (p less than .05) decreased cerebral blood flow in both groups. At the beginning of the shock period, cerebral blood flow was higher in group 1 than in group 2 (p less than .05) and venous-arterial differences in TxB2 increased significantly (p less than .05) in group 2, but not in group 1. At the end of the 30-min shock period, venous-arterial levels of TxB2 remained significantly (p less than .05) higher in group 2. CONCLUSIONS: Increased cerebral production of TxA2 during hypotension accompanied by intracranial hypertension may contribute to the severity of neural damage produced by the combination of head trauma and shock. 
Morphine-augmented cholescintigraphy: its efficacy in detecting acute cholecystitis Cholescintigrams were performed in 158 patients suspected of having acute cholecystitis after administration of 185 Mbq (5 mCi) of 99mTc-mebrofenin or disofenin. Morphine sulfate, 0.04 mg/kg was given intravenously if there was nonvisualization of the gallbladder at 40-60 min provided that radiotracer was seen within the small bowel. Acute cholecystitis was deemed present if there was nonvisualization of the gallbladder 30 min post-morphine administration; no cystic duct obstruction was present if the gallbladder was demonstrated pre- or post-morphine administration. A final diagnosis was estimated in 51 postoperative patients histologically, the remainder having their final diagnosis gleaned from their medical records. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of morphine-augmented cholescintigraphy in detecting acute cholecystitis was 94.6, 99.1, 97.2, and 98.3%, respectively. These findings indicate that morphine-augmented cholescintigraphy detects acute cholecystitis with as high a degree of accuracy as conventional hepatobiliary scintigraphy, yet requires only 1.5 hr to establish the diagnosis. 
The sleep apnoea syndrome in obesity: risk of sudden death. A total of 34 severely obese men with a history of heavy snoring and excessive daytime sleepiness indicative of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) were studied prospectively. Their mean age was 46 years, and mean body mass index was 41.6 kg m-2. During a 4-year follow-up, 15% (5/34) of these subjects died (three cases of acute myocardial infarction and two cases of pulmonary oedema), all of them suddenly and unexpectedly, outside hospital. On autopsy the degree of atherosclerosis was found to be moderate in all cases. In 68% (15/22) of the men a pathological apnoea index (mean value 46 +/- 20) confirmed the OSAS diagnosis. Exercise tests and neurological examinations did not reveal any other causes of daytime sleepiness. Mean blood pressure at rest and during exercise was normal, and mean serum lipid and blood glucose levels were normal. Spirometry revealed intrapulmonary restrictive changes that could not be attributed to the heavy thoracic wall. Compliance was reduced to about 50% of reference values, and the mean pCO2 level (5.8 kPa) was close to the upper reference limit. Blood tests suggested that high alcohol consumption may be an important factor contributing to OSAS. These results demonstrate that morbidly obese men with a history of OSAS have a high risk of sudden cardiovascular death, despite the absence of other conventional risk factors. 
Pathologic changes associated with androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer. Prostate glands exposed to androgen deprivation with leuprolide +/- flutamide were evaluated for pathologic changes which might be related to therapy. Comparing pretreatment and posttreatment tissue by visual discrimination using light microscopic study revealed treatment-related alterations in the size and distribution of neoplastic glands in 60% of cases. Quantitative measurements documented glandular changes in an even greater percentage of cases. Although distinctive, the histologic pattern was not specific for leuprolide/flutamide. The absence of appreciable degeneration and necrosis in tumor cells suggests that this type of androgen deprivation may act through suppression rather than ablation of prostatic cancers. The relationship between treatment-related histologic effects and initial tumor grade and clinical stage as well as expression of prostate-specific antigen was studied. Accurate histologic assessment of leuprolide/flutamide-treated prostate glands should not be a problem so long as specimens are thoroughly examined and drug-related variations in tumor morphologic features are appreciated. 
Defective Fc receptor-mediated clearance in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Fc receptor-mediated clearance of immunoglobulin G-coated autologous erythrocytes was studied in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (n = 14), alcoholic liver cirrhosis (n = 5) and healthy reference individuals (n = 14). The mean half-life of the sensitized erythrocytes was significantly prolonged in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (85 +/- 25 minutes; P less than 0.001) compared with the corresponding value in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis (16 +/- 2 minutes) and healthy reference individuals (20 +/- 5 minutes), respectively. No correlation between clearance rate and age, liver histopathology, or serum levels of bilirubin, aminotransferases, immunoglobulin G, immunoglobulin A, and Clq binding or C3-containing immune complexes was found. The results presented here indicate a profound disturbance of Fc receptor-mediated immune clearance function in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Competitive control of myosin expression: hypertrophy vs. hyperthyroidism. The competition between two opposing influences on the phenotypic expression of skeletal muscle myosin were studied to determine which was the dominant regulator. Experimental hyperthyroidism, which induces fast myosin expression, was produced by subcutaneous implantation of a 40-day constant-time-release triiodothyronine pellet. Compensatory hypertrophy, which induces slow myosin expression, was produced by surgical removal of a synergistic hindlimb muscle. Hyperthyroidism increased the percentage of type II fibers and the fast myosin isoforms in both the plantaris and soleus muscles. Hypertrophy significantly increased the percentage of type I fibers and the slow myosin type in the plantaris and soleus muscles. However, with the simultaneous introduction of hyperthyroidism and hypertrophy, only the hyperthyroid effects were observed. Hyperthyroidism and not physiological demand was found to be the dominant regulator of skeletal muscle myosin expression. 
The double-stapled ileal reservoir and ileoanal anastomosis. A prospective review of sphincter function and clinical outcome. Fifteen consecutive patients (nine males and six females) who underwent construction of a double-stapled ileoanal reservoir (DS-IAR) were prospectively evaluated. Mean and maximal resting pressures preoperatively, before ileostomy closure, and at 12 months, were 53 and 84 mm Hg, 39 and 62 mm Hg, and 62 and 81 mm Hg. Mean and maximal squeeze pressures at those same time periods were 96 and 153 mm Hg, 111 and 173 mm Hg, and 95 and 168 mm Hg. There were no significant decreases in either resting or squeeze pressure between preoperative values and those obtained 12 months after surgery. However, the length of the high pressure zone decreased from 3.8 cm preoperatively to 2.3 cm at 12 months. This reflects the sacrifice of the cephalad 1.5 cm of the internal anal sphincter necessary to effect this anastomosis at a mean of 1.4 cm from the dentate line. However, this maneuver did not result in poor continence. Eleven patients whose ileostomies were closed for a mean of 9 months, ranging from 3 to 15 months, were evaluated regarding functional outcome. Only one patient had any incontinence and this patient had incomplete circular-stapled tissue rings, which necessitated transanal suture repair of the anastomotic defect. Similarly, three of the four patients who sometimes or rarely use a pad at night had transanal-suture reinforcement. Ten of the 11 patients never wear a pad during the day. No pelvic or perianal sepsis occurred. Stratified squamous epithelium was found in 6 of the 13 distal stapler "donuts" that were examined. In addition, 10 patients underwent biopsy of the tissue immediately caudad to the circular staple line at the time of ileostomy closure; in five, only stratified squamous epithelium was noted. The DS-IAR is associated with excellent objective physiologic and subjective functional results. 
Effect of ketanserin on intraoperative blood loss during total hip arthroplasty in elderly patients under general anaesthesia. We have studied the effect of ketanserin, a selective serotonin S2-receptor antagonist, on surgical bleeding in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in elderly patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty. One group of patients (n = 9) received ketanserin 10 mg i.v. followed by an infusion of 0.075 mg kg-1 h-1. The second group (n = 8) received placebo. Both groups were comparable with regard to age, height and body weight. Mean intraoperative blood loss was 454 ml with ketanserin and 894 ml with placebo (P = 0.004; Wilcoxon two-sample test). Mean duration of the operation was less with ketanserin (112 min) than with placebo (134 min) (P = 0.004), but rate of blood loss was also less with ketanserin (4.1 vs 6.7 ml min-1; P = 0.03). In the ketanserin group, mean arterial pressures tended to be less than in the placebo group. Reductions in central venous pressure were similar in both groups. There were no complications in relation to the use of ketanserin. 
Clinical follow-up and immunogenetic studies of 32 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome 31 patients with L-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS) that developed during the United States outbreak in 1989 were followed up prospectively at a university hospital outpatient rheumatology clinic for 16 to 24 months from the onset of their illness. Another patient with EMS associated with L-tryptophan in 1988 was followed up for 30 months. 93% of the 28 survivors from the 1989 cohort continue to have symptoms affecting 1-4 organ systems (median 3) and 3 have died, so the disorder produces considerable morbidity and mortality. The chronic sequelae most often associated with long-term disability are sclerodermatous skin thickening (54%), sensorimotor polyneuropathy (61%), proximal myopathy (36%), and severe episodic myalgias (64%). Thrombocytopenia developed in 1 patient. HLA-class II typing revealed a non-significant trend towards an association with HLA-DR4. Early therapy with corticosteroids did not seem to prevent the development of chronic manifestations. 
Growth hormone treatment of growth failure secondary to total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation. Growth hormone was given to 13 children (nine boys, four girls) with acute leukaemia who had undergone treatment with cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation before bone marrow transplantation. Mean age at total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation was 9.0 years (range 3.7-15.8). Endocrinological investigation was carried out at a mean of 2.0 years (range 0.4-4.0) after bone marrow transplantation. Peak serum growth hormone responses to hypoglycaemia were less than 10.0 micrograms/l (less than 20.0 mU/l) in 10, 10.5 micrograms/l (21.0 mU/l) in one, greater than 16.0 micrograms/l (greater than 32.0 mU/l) in two patients. Mean age of the patients at the start of growth hormone treatment was 12.2 years (range 5.8-18.2). The mean time between total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation and the start of growth hormone treatment was 3.2 years (range, 1.1-5.0). Height velocity SD score (SD) increased from a mean pretreatment value of -1.27 (0.65) to + 0.22 (0.81) in the first year, +0.16 (1.11) in the second year, and +0.42 (0.71) in the third year of treatment. Height SD score (SD) changed only slightly from -1.52 (0.42) to -1.50 (0.47) in the first year, to -1.50 (0.46) in the second year, and -1.74 (0.92) in the third year. Measurement of segmental proportions showed no significant increase in subischial leg length from -0.87 (0.67) to -0.63 (0.65) in the first year, to -0.58 (0.70) in the second year, and -0.80 (1.14) in the third year of treatment. 
Sympathetically maintained pain of the digits in porphyria cutanea tarda relieved by i.v. regional guanethidine. A case of a sympathetically maintained pain of the tips of the fingers in a 39-year-old man with porphyria cutanea tarda is presented. Occupational vibrating trauma is the presumed cause. The successful treatment with intravenous regional guanethidine is reported. 
Coronary heart disease in rhesus monkeys with diet-induced coronary artery atherosclerosis. Diet-induced coronary artery atherosclerosis develops in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). The goal of this study was to establish the rhesus monkey as an animal model of coronary heart disease (CHD). From a colony of 160 rhesus monkeys fed an atherogenic diet, we identified 14 monkeys with electrocardiographic and echocardiographic evidence of CHD. When compared with 14 rhesus monkeys matched for age, gender, and dietary history with normal electrocardiograms and echocardiograms, monkeys with CHD had higher arterial blood pressures (mean +/- SEM, 92 +/- 4 mm Hg vs 75 +/- 5 mm Hg, respectively), lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations (mean +/- SEM, 1.70 +/- 0.25 mmol/L vs 2.32 +/- 0.28 mmol/L [66 +/- 10 mg/dL vs 90 +/- 11 mg/dl]), and lower A-l apolipoprotein concentrations (mean +/- SEM, 200 +/- 17 mg/dL vs 252 +/- 15 mg/dL). Monkeys with CHD tended to have higher total plasma cholesterol concentrations (mean +/- SEM, 11.6 +/- 1.55 mmol/L vs 9.36 +/- 0.93 mmol/L [450 +/- 60 mg/dL vs 362 +/- 36 mg/dL]) and higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations (mean +/- SEM, 8.71 +/- 1.75 mmol/L vs 6.12 +/- 0.90 mmol/L [337 +/- 68 mg/dL vs 237 +/- 35 mg/dl]) than monkeys with normal electrocardiograms and echocardiograms. We conclude that rhesus monkeys, like human beings, develop CHD as a complication of coronary artery atherosclerosis. Furthermore, risk factors for CHD in rhesus monkeys and human beings are similar. 
Primary chest wall tumor appearing as frozen shoulder. Review and case presentations. The term frozen shoulder may apply to a primary, common, recognizable entity with a predictable course to a painful stiff condition with periarthritis secondary to trauma, rotator cuff or arthritic source. We studied 140 cases of frozen shoulder, referred to a surgical clinic for manipulation when conservative care was not effective. Investigations showed only 40 cases had "primary" frozen shoulder and among these were 3 patients with a local primary invasive neoplasm mimicking the exact features of the common condition. The attending physician and surgeon should be suspicious of tumor in younger patients with progressive pain among the other features of primary frozen shoulder. 
Acute cor pulmonale secondary to metastatic tumor to the heart: a case report and literature review. Metastatic tumors to the heart are becoming more common due to improved survival afforded by advanced treatment of malignancies. Their presence should be sought in a cancer patient who develops new primary cardiac symptoms. We present a case of a 50-year-old woman who succumbed to acute cor pulmonale secondary to metastatic laryngeal carcinoma to the right ventricle with subsequent tumor emboli to the pulmonary vasculature. 
Impaired suppression of plasma norepinephrine during head-down tilt in patients with congestive heart failure. Neurohumoral activation is present in congestive heart failure and may contribute to vasoconstriction in this syndrome. The mechanisms leading to and maintaining neurohumoral activation in long-standing congestive heart failure are as yet undefined. The present study addresses the possibility that baroreceptor-mediated suppression of plasma norepinephrine may be abnormal in patients with long-standing congestive heart failure. Eight normal subjects and 12 patients with long-standing congestive heart failure were studied during 15 minutes of 30 degrees head-down tilt. There were no significant changes in heart rate or arterial blood pressure in either group during these maneuvers. In normal subjects, plasma norepinephrine declined from 257 +/- 38 pg/ml at control to 208 +/- 39 pg/ml during head-down tilt (p less than 0.005). Plasma norepinephrine was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure, 475 +/- 189 pg/ml, and did not change during head-down tilt. These observations suggest that baroreflex loading maneuvers, which in this study included increased central blood volume and hydrostatic effects on the sinoaortic baroreceptor, do not suppress increased plasma norepinephrine in patients with long-standing congestive heart failure. Impaired baroreflex responsiveness could therefore contribute to either the generation or maintenance of high plasma norepinephrine in this syndrome. 
Aprotinin reduces intraoperative and postoperative blood loss in membrane oxygenator cardiopulmonary bypass. To determine whether aprotinin can provide a significant improvement of hemostasis in cardiopulmonary bypass using a membrane oxygenator, we tested this drug in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. The subjects were 80 male patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary artery bypass grafting. Forty patients received aprotinin and 40 patients served as placebo controls. Aprotinin (4 x 10(6) KIU) was given as a continuous infusion, starting before operation and continuing until after cardiopulmonary bypass; additionally, 2 x 10(6) KIU aprotinin was added to the pump prime. Intraoperative and postoperative bleeding, respectively two thirds and one third of the total perioperative blood loss, were both significantly reduced in the aprotinin-treated group (p less than 0.01). The total average perioperative blood loss, corrected to a hemoglobin concentration of 7 mmol/L, was 550 mL in the aprotinin-treated patients versus 900 mL in the control patients. This reduction in blood loss, furthermore, significantly decreased the amount of postoperative blood transfusions (p less than 0.05) and increased the percentage of patients who did not receive postoperative donor blood from 42% to 68%. Aprotinin increased the activated clotting time significantly during cardiopulmonary bypass, which led to a reduction in heparin usage. The improved hemostasis during operation, despite the prolonged activated clotting time, might even abolish the need for heparin conversion with protamine at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass, thus allowing retransfusion through cardiotomy suction to be continued, which saves the blood that is currently lost with vacuum suction. 
Quality assurance for patients with head injuries admitted to a regional trauma unit. The efficacy of trauma systems in reducing preventable deaths has been established but the methods of auditing care are still evolving. Various "audit filters" to identify which patients' charts should be reviewed have been proposed. An analysis of all patients admitted to the Regional Trauma Unit (RTU) over a 19-month period was conducted. Of 729 patients, 135 were identified as having suffered a traumatic intracranial hemorrhage (TICH). On review, neither delay in transfer from the emergency room to the operating room nor increasing time from the incident to the operating room correlated with increasing mortality. In contrast to delay, the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score on admission correlated well with outcome. The charts of patients with anomalous outcomes based on admission GCS score were reviewed, and two possibly preventable deaths were identified. There were 48 patients with TICH who had no operations but there were no deaths attributable to a missed operation. There were 76 patients for whom the GCS score at the referring hospital and the GCS score on admission to the RTU were available. Seven of 19 patients who worsened on transfer declined because of significant pulmonary injuries. Anomalous outcomes based on admission GCS score and declining GCS scores are recommended as quality assurance filters. 
Protein kinase C plays a role in the induction of tyrosine phosphorylation of lymphoid microtubule-associated protein-2 kinase. Evidence for a CD3-associated cascade that includes pp56lck and that is defective in HPB-ALL. Ligation of the CD3 receptor induces multiple signal transduction events that modify the activation state of the T cell. We have compared two lines that express biologically active CD3 receptors but differ in their biochemical activation pathways during ligation of this receptor. Jurkat cells respond to anti-CD3 with Ca2+ mobilization, PKC activation, induction of protein tyrosine phosphorylation, and activation of newly characterized lymphoid microtubule associated protein-2 kinase (MAP-2K). MAP-2K itself is a 43-kDa phosphoprotein that requires tyrosine phosphorylation for activation. Although ligation of the CD3 receptor in HPB-ALL could stimulate tyrosine phosphorylation of a 59- kDa substrate, there was no associated induction of [Ca2+]i flux, PKC, or MAP-2K activation. A specific PKC agonist, PMA, which bypasses the CD3 receptor, could, however, activate MAP-2K in HPB-ALL cells. This implies that defective stimulation of PKC by the CD3 receptor is responsible for its failure to activate MAP-2K in HPB-ALL. The defect in PKC activation is likely distal to the CD3 receptor as A1F14- failed to activate MAP-2K in HPB-ALL but was effective in Jurkat cells. The stimulatory effect of PMA on MAP-2K activity in HPB-ALL was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of this kinase which implies that PKC may, in some way, regulate tyrosine phosphorylation of MAP-2K. A candidate for this role is pp56lck which underwent posttranslational modification (seen as mobility change on SDS-PAGE) during anti-CD3 and PMA stimulation in Jurkat or PMA treatment in HPB-ALL. There was, in fact, exact coincidence between induction of PKC activity, posttranslational modification of lck and tyrosine phosphorylation/activation of MAP-2K. Lck kinase activity in an immune complex kinase assay was unchanged during PMA treatment. An alternative explanation is that modification of lck may alter its substrate profile. We therefore looked at the previously documented ability of PKC to dissociate lck from the CD4 receptor and found that PMA could reduce the stoichiometry of the lck interaction with CD4 in HPB-ALL and to a lesser extent in Jurkat cells. These results imply the existence of a kinase cascade that is initiated by PKC and, in the course of which, lck and MAP-2K may interact. 
Terminal axon pathology in infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. In order to clarify the pathogenesis of infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy, ultrastructural studies of the terminal and nonterminal axons of motor and autonomic nerves in muscle and skin, of which structures are much simpler than those of the central nervous system, were performed in 5 patients affected by infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. The primary lesion was located in the axon terminal; the majority of terminal axons were dystrophic with tubulo-membranous profiles, while there were only a few dystrophic axons in the nonterminal axons. According to these findings, it is logical to consider that interruption of axonal transport at the site of the "turnaround" process is a cause of dystrophic change of the terminal axon in infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. 
Small bowel length in Crohn's disease. The length of the small intestine in patients with Crohn's disease who are referred for surgery has not been well studied. In this report, 25 patients with Crohn's disease who were being operated on for the first time had their small intestine measured at the time of surgery. The mean length of small intestine in this group was 501 cm, which was not different from a group of patients without Crohn's disease who were being operated on for other problems. In the group of patients with Crohn's disease, as well as the entire group, there was a correlation between increasing height and longer small bowel length. No other parameters investigated, including weight, surface area, age, sex, and duration of disease, correlated with bowel length. The results of this study are somewhat encouraging to patients with Crohn's disease, since these patients do not start off with a shortened bowel prior to surgery. 
Long-term health risks and benefits of oral contraceptive use. The contraceptive effect of oral contraceptive use provides an important health benefit, particularly in developing countries, where the risks of pregnancy and childbearing are increased. Several important noncontraceptive health benefits of oral contraceptive use include the prevention of endometrial and ovarian cancers. Data are generally reassuring concerning the risks of oral contraceptive use, which include cardiovascular disease and breast and cervical cancer. 
Mismatch of left ventricular function and infarct size demonstrated by technetium-99m isonitrile imaging after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction: identification of myocardial stunning and hyperkinesia. Quantitation of perfusion defect size using tomographic imaging with technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxy isobutyl isonitrile was performed at the time of hospital discharge in 32 patients with a first myocardial infarction who underwent successful coronary reperfusion within 8 h of the onset of chest pain. Reperfusion was accomplished with thrombolysis or primary coronary angioplasty. Radionuclide angiography was performed at discharge and 6 weeks later. There was a close correlation between perfusion defect size and values for ejection fraction and regional wall motion both at discharge (r = -0.80 and -0.75, respectively) and 6 weeks later (r = -0.81 and -0.81, respectively). There was no overall group difference in ejection fraction between the value at discharge and at 6 weeks; however, five patients had a significant increase (greater than or equal to 0.08) and six had a significant decrease (greater than or equal to 0.08) in ejection fraction. In patients with a significant increase at 6 weeks, ejection fraction was significantly lower at discharge than the value predicted from perfusion defect size (0.37 +/- 0.09 measured versus 0.47 +/- 0.13 predicted, p less than 0.05) and it improved at 6 weeks to near predicted values (0.51 +/- 0.07). In patients with a significant decrease at 6 weeks, ejection fraction was significantly higher at discharge than the value predicted from perfusion defect size (0.60 +/- 0.10 measured versus 0.50 +/- 0.10 predicted, p less than 0.05) and it decreased at 6 weeks to near predicted levels (0.51 +/- 0.09). Left ventricular ejection fraction at the time of hospital discharge is a potentially misleading index of the efficacy of reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction. In a significant minority (34%) of patients this index does not accurately reflect perfusion defect size, apparently because of the effects of myocardial stunning and compensatory hyperkinesia. 
Management of valvular heart disease: an illustrative cases approach. As indicated by the 22 illustrative cases included in this monograph, a stepwise approach to the assessment of valvular heart disease provides the information necessary to make good clinical decisions. The ECG and chest x-ray add useful information to the history and physical examination. Echocardiography, Doppler, and color flow Doppler techniques have an important role in defining the presence and severity of valvular stenosis and regurgitation. Nuclear techniques provide useful information about global biventricular systolic function, regional wall motion, and myocardial perfusion. Exercise testing is most valuable in confirming objectively the patient's functional status and exercise tolerance. Newer imaging techniques, such as cine CT and MRI, are capable of displaying and measuring cardiac chamber size and myocardial thickness; however, visualization of the cardiac valves and demonstration of flow abnormalities are difficult, limiting the current usefulness of these techniques in patients with valvular heart disease. 
Dysphagia in psychiatric patients: clinical and videofluoroscopic study. Deaths due to airway obstruction are more common in psychiatric inpatients than in the normal population. A dysphagia program was started in a 400 bed Massachusetts psychiatric hospital after 4 patients in 1 year died from asphyxia. In the year after the program was started, there were no deaths; however, 28 patients experienced 32 choking incidents. The 28 patients received clinical evaluations by speech pathologists, neurologists, psychiatrists, and internists. Of the incidents, 55% required use of the Heimlich maneuver to open the airway. Choking incidents could be classified into five types based on results of clinical examination: bradykinetic, dyskinetic, fast eating syndrome, paralytic, and medical. Twenty-one of the 28 patients were studied by videofluoroscopy and 86% of the videos were abnormal, showing aspiration in eight, webs in five, and delay in the oral phase in five. Patients with bradykinetic dysphagia (secondary to neuroleptic-induced extra-pyramidal syndrome [EPS]) and paralytic dysphagia appeared to experience a more severe form of choking. 
Fatigue and depression in the patient in the intensive care unit. The recognition, management, and treatment of fatigue and depression in the patient in the intensive care unit has been presented in a framework to allow consideration of intrapsychic, interpersonal, environmental, and disease factors that can be altered by various means. It is rare that fatigue so seriously complicates the primary illness as to be life threatening itself. Depression and delirium are associated with increased morbidity and mortality on their own; therefore, prompt attention to major depressive disorders and organic effective disorders is necessary. Through it all, attention to the person who has the disease with fatigue, depression, or both is essential. 
Circadian variation in the frequency of onset of chest pain in acute myocardial infarction. The time of onset of chest pain was studied prospectively in 1154 consecutive patients admitted to a coronary care unit with myocardial infarction during a five year period. Statistical analysis confirmed a previous finding in a retrospective study of a bimodal frequency distribution with peaks in the time of onset of chest pain between 2330 and 0030 hours and between 0630 and 0830 hours. 
Bioelectric impedance analysis: experience with male patients with cirrhosis. Bioelectric impedance analysis is a new, convenient and portable method used to estimate total body water and to assess body composition in healthy people. We used the tetrapolar bioelectrical impedance analysis method in 58 cirrhotic patients to assess its clinical applicability. Whole-body resistance, reactance and impedance were measured and compared with those of 30 healthy volunteers matched for age and sex. The resistance and impedance values of ascitic cirrhotic patients (resistance = 461 +/- 80 omega; impedance = 462 +/- 80 omega) and nonascitic cirrhotic patients (resistance = 487 +/- 96 omega; impedance = 489 +/- 97 omega) were comparable with the resistance (488 +/- 44 omega) and impedance (491 +/- 44 omega) of controls. However, a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in whole body reactance was found in patients with ascites and in those without ascites (34 +/- 9 omega vs. 47 +/- 12 omega) as compared with healthy subjects (56 +/- 7 omega). In 10 ascitic patients total body water was determined both before and after paracentesis; the volume of intraperitoneal fluid removed (7.9 +/- 3.8 L) could not be fully accounted for but only detected as an average volume of 1.9 +/- 1.0 L independently of the initial volume of the ascites. Our data clearly demonstrate that tetrapolar bioelectric impedance analysis is not adequate for measuring variations of "compartmentalized" fluid in the abdomen. 
Survival and valve failure after aortic valve replacement. A prospective evaluation of 412 consecutive patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement between January 1982 and December 1985 was performed in an attempt to identify the determinants of survival and valve failure. A variety of valves were inserted to permit a prospective evaluation of alternative valves including: Bjork-Shiley mechanical (n = 37), Ionescu-Shiley pericardial (n = 261), Hancock pericardial (n = 78), and Carpentier-Edwards porcine (n = 36). Thirteen patients died in the hospital (3.2%) and 47 patients died in the follow-up period producing an actuarial survival of 81% +/- 3% at 48 months. Survival was independently predicted by advancing age, preoperative New York Heart Association functional class, and the presence of endocarditis (p less than 0.05 by Cox regression analysis). The majority of patients were symptomatically improved (New York Heart Association class I or II: 21% preoperative, 88% postoperative). Freedom from structural valve dysfunction, prosthetic valve endocarditis, and reoperation for valve-related complications were 95% +/- 2%, 95% +/- 2%, and 92% +/- 2% at 48 months, respectively. These valve-related complications occurred more frequently in younger patients and in those with a Hancock pericardial valve (freedom from structural valve dysfunction, 89% +/- 5%; prosthetic valve endocarditis, 84% +/- 9%; reoperation, 78% +/- 10%; p less than 0.05 by Cox regression). Freedom from thromboembolism was 88% +/- 2% at 48 months; it was significantly lower in patients with a preoperative thromboembolic event and was not influenced by the type of prosthesis inserted. Freedom from anticoagulant-related hemorrhage was 85% +/- 8% at 48 months and was not influenced by any preoperative factors. 
National High Blood Pressure Education Program Working Group Report on High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy This consensus report focuses the presentation, pathophysiology, and management of the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy expanding on recommendations first presented in 1988 by the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure. Practicing physicians should determine whether a patient's hypertension during pregnancy falls into the classification of (1) chronic hypertension, (2) preeclampsia, (3) preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension, or (4) transient hypertension. The distinction, for management considerations, is made between hypertension that is present before pregnancy (chronic and preexisting) and that occurring as part of the pregnancy-specific condition preeclampsia. When maternal blood pressure reaches diastolic levels of 100 mm Hg or greater, treatment should be instituted to avoid hypertensive vascular damage. The report includes a discussion of antihypertensive therapy specific to the chronic or acute hypertension occurring concomitantly with pregnancy. The roles of calcium supplementation and low-dose aspirin to prevent preeclampsia and chronic and transient hypertension are under investigation. 
Clinical, physiologic, anatomic and procedural factors predictive of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. In a recent prospective double-blind placebo-controlled trial, a combination of aspirin and dipyridamole was not associated with a reduction in the rate of restenosis within the 1st 6 months after coronary angioplasty. The purpose of this study was to determine whether clinical, anatomic or procedural factors were predictive of the observed restenosis rates in that prospective trial. A total of 247 patients and 280 segments underwent follow-up angiography and quantitative coronary angiographic analysis between 4 and 7 months after coronary angioplasty. Two baseline clinical characteristics--angina class and duration of angina in months--were related to the rate of restenosis by univariate analysis. Patient-related stepwise logistic regression analysis identified severity of angina as the only clinical predictor of restenosis. Three univariate baseline anatomic characteristics--percent diameter stenosis before angioplasty, stenosis greater than 10 mm in length and calcific stenosis--and two early postangioplasty characteristics--residual percent diameter stenosis and residual mean pressure gradient--were predictive of restenosis. Of these, only two--length of stenosis and residual percent diameter stenosis--were independently related to restenosis by multivariate analysis and only the former is identifiable before the procedure. It is concluded that in prospective studies in contrast to retrospective studies, few clinical and anatomic factors appear to be predictive of restenosis after coronary angioplasty. 
What is the role of the central nervous system in mineralocorticoid hypertension? The importance of the central nervous system (CNS) in the development of mineralocorticoid hypertension has been well documented. Type I receptors in adrenalectomized rats are concentrated in the hippocampus, amygdala, lateral septum, and hypothalamus, particularly in the periventricular regions, areas known to be or suspected of being important in the regulation of ACTH release, arousal, fluid and fluid osmolality equilibrium, and the maintenance of normal blood pressure. In the rat, ablation of the AV3V area and central, but not peripheral, sympathectomy prevent the development of DOCA-salt hypertension. The continuous intracerebroventricular (icv) infusion of aldosterone in rats or dogs at doses which do not affect the blood pressure when administered subcutaneously (sc) produces significant increases in resting blood pressure. In rats this effect is dose dependent, blocked by the concomitant icv infusion of prorenone, an aldosterone antagonist, and enhanced, but not completely dependent upon renal mass reduction and excess salt consumption. The icv infusion of RU28318, a selective mineralocorticoid antagonist, at doses which are ineffective when administered sc, inhibits the development of hypertension produced by the sc infusion of aldosterone or deoxycorticosterone, as well as that produced by the oral administration of a licorice derivative and of a high salt diet in the Dahl S/JR rat. It is assumed that this effect is mediated through the mineralocorticoid receptor because it is inhibited by mineralocorticoid antagonists and because the icv infusion of RU26988, a selective glucocorticoid agonist, has no effect. The concomitant icv infusion of corticosterone, which is thought to be the primary ligand of the brain mineralocorticoid receptor, antagonizes the effect of icv infusion of aldosterone. 
Epidemiology of pain in New Zealand. Information on the prevalence of pain in the general population has relevance for the allocation of health services and for understanding of chronic pain. In 1986 a sample of 1498 adults were interviewed using the Diagnostic Interview Schedule. Questions on pain were taken from the somatisation section of the interview schedule. These responses were used to determine the lifetime prevalence of pain in the urban population of New Zealand. The majority of subjects reported more than one life disrupting experience of pain. Pain was most common in the joints, back, head and abdomen. Women reported more pain than men. In general the prevalence of pain increased with age, however this was not true for headaches and abdominal pain. Most subjects related their pain symptoms to a physical cause. 
National High Blood Pressure Education Program Working Group report on hypertension and chronic renal failure. End-stage renal disease attributed to hypertension has increased annually for the last decade and will probably worsen through the year 2000. Patients with diabetic nephropathy and patients with hypertensive renal disease account for most new cases annually. Evidence reveals that all levels of untreated hypertension are associated with potentially declining renal function. Data from the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program and other studies show that antihypertensive treatment can prevent progressive renal failure. An ablation model demonstrates glomerular hyperfiltration as a possible mechanism for progressive renal failure. Human data on the renal effects of antihypertensive agents are limited and inconsistent. Despite the limitations, the Working Group on Hypertension and Chronic Renal Failure concludes that controlled hypertension to less than 140/90 mm Hg reduces the incidence of end-stage renal disease. Patients with established renal impairment may benefit from individualized treatment to 130/85 mm Hg or less. 
Myospherulosis. Complicating wound healing. Myospherulosis is a complication of wound healing which results from an action between lipids and extravasated erythrocytes. A case of myospherulosis of the mandible is reviewed with its history, histopathology and occurrence. 
Clinically significant pneumatosis intestinalis with postoperative enteral feedings by needle catheter jejunostomy: an unusual complication. We evaluated the incidence of clinically significant pneumatosis intestinalis and intestinal necrosis with the use of needle catheter jejunostomy in 217 consecutive patients who had undergone complicated abdominal operations or selected bariatric procedures. The needle catheter jejunostomy was used to deliver immediate postoperative nutrition, maintenance, and replacement fluids, and selected medications. In this group, no serious complications requiring surgical intervention were related to the use of needle catheter jejunostomies. Clinically significant pneumatosis intestinalis was encountered in two of 217 patients (1%). With the needle catheter jejunostomy in place, both patients improved rapidly when enteral feedings were discontinued and parenteral antibiotics were administered. None of the 217 patients developed ischemic intestinal necrosis. We conclude that 1) clinically significant pneumatosis is a rare complication of enteric feeding via needle catheter jejunostomy when the intrajejunal feeding is begun with a diluted, hypoosmolar solution with stepwise increases in osmolality, and 2) patients who do develop clinically significant pneumatosis (n = 2) seem to respond rapidly to a temporary stoppage of enteral feedings and administration of parenteral antibiotics. 
Cultured human bladder tumors for pharmacodynamic studies. Human bladder tumor fragments were cultured on collagen gel. In this system, the three dimensional architecture, cell-to-stroma and cell-to-cell interactions, and tumor heterogeneity were maintained. Cell viability and labeling index (LI) were determined by exposure to 3H-thymidine and autoradiography. Of the samples from 20 patients with transitional cell carcinoma, 14 (70%) were successfully cultured and had a mean LI of 32%. In addition, one specimen from a patient with squamous cell carcinoma was cultured and had a LI of 61%. Cultured samples were tested for chemosensitivity using a two hour exposure of mitomycin C in concentrations ranging from one to 50 micrograms./ml. A dose-dependent relationship was demonstrated; LI decreased as mitomycin C concentrations increased. The methodology described provides an alternative to suspension or monolayer techniques of culturing human bladder tumors for pharmacological studies. 
Experience with multiagent chemotherapy for osteosarcoma. Improved outcome. Clinical researches at the authors' institution have been treating patients with osteosarcoma with effective adjuvant chemotherapy for 18 years, including 14-years experience with limb-salvage surgery. The outlook for patients with nonmetastatic high-grade osteosarcoma has improved dramatically since 1972. Updated results of the single-agent adjuvant (postoperative) chemotherapy trial project a five-year disease-free survival (DFS) of 42% (95% confidence interval [CI], 14% to 70%) with follow-up periods of 5.7 to 13.8 years compared to a two-year DFS of 78% (60% to 95%) and follow-up periods of 0.6 to 6.8 years with six-agent, alternating, adjuvant postoperative chemotherapy. Additionally, since limb-salvage surgery began to be offered in 1976 to selected patients, 36 of 74 patients (49%) have had limb-salvage operations performed. The two-year DFS is 69% (52% to 85%) for patients having limb-salvage operations with follow-up periods of 0.6 to 10.3 years compared to 72% (57% to 87%) for amputees with follow-up periods of 0.3 to 10.3 years. It is concluded that patients receiving limb-salvage operations appear to be at no greater risk for relapse than patients receiving cross-bone amputation and that the administration of alternating, multiagent, adjuvant chemotherapy has significantly improved the DFS for patients who present with nonmetastatic high-grade osteosarcoma. 
Phase I-II trial of pentoxifylline for the prevention of transplant-related toxicities following bone marrow transplantation. Disease relapse and transplant related toxicities have limited the application of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in the treatment for hematologic malignancies. Because elevated levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) have been correlated with the development of transplant related complications, we conducted a phase I-II trial of pentoxifylline (PTX), a xanthine derivative capable of down-regulating TNF-alpha production, in patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing BMT. Thirty consecutive adult patients (median age, 34) were entered and received either an allogeneic (n = 26) or autologous (n = 4) BMT. Patients were enrolled at increasing dose levels (1,200, 1,600, and 2,000 mg/d) from day -10 through day +100 posttransplant. PTX was well tolerated with no significant adverse side effects noted at any of the dose levels administered. The actuarial day 100 survival for these 30 patients was 90% (95% confidence interval 79% to 100%). When compared with a good risk control group, PTX recipients experienced less mucositis (3.7 +/- 1.1 v 18.7 +/- 1.1 days, P = .004), less hepatic venocclusive disease (10% v 65%, P = .001), a lower incidence of renal insufficiency (3% v 65%, P = .0003), required less days of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) (24.0 +/- 1.3 v 35.0 +/- 2.4, P = .001) and were discharged from the hospital earlier than controls (day 26.0 +/- 1.8 v 37.0 +/- 3.8, P = .01). In addition the incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) greater than or equal to grade II was also reduced among the PTX recipients (35% v 68%, P = .03). PTX at doses in excess of 1,200 mg/d further reduced the severity of mucositis, and TPN requirements resulting in earlier hospital discharge than patients receiving 1,200 mg/d of PTX. In this study oral administration of PTX in doses up to 2,000 mg/d was well tolerated and associated with a reduction in morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing BMT. Prospective randomized trials are currently in progress to test these preliminary observations. 
Granulomatous renal mass during endovesical BCG therapy for bladder carcinoma. Diagnosis by fine-needle aspiration. One case of pseudotumoral granulomatous renal mass during endovesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) therapy for superficial bladder neoplasm is reported. Such an adverse effect is exceptional and is clearly related to a vesicorenal reflux in our patient. In this case ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration was able to settle the diagnosis and avoid surgery. The patient responded to triple antituberculous therapy. 
Intranasal amphotericin B reduces the frequency of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic patients. PURPOSE: To retrospectively study the prophylaxis of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic patients and to relate the frequency of this fungal disease to any causal or modifying factors that could be identified. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1977 and 1988, 130 patients underwent 158 intensive treatment episodes to control acute leukemia, lymphoma, and aplastic anemia, and the frequency of complicating aspergillus infection was determined. RESULTS: Proven invasive aspergillus infections occurred in 22 cases, 12 of which were fatal. Invasive aspergillosis was suspected in a further 16 cases and all these patients recovered with amphotericin B treatment. Colonization by Aspergillus in the absence of clinically significant infection was seen in 31 treatment episodes. Invasive aspergillosis involved mainly the upper and lower respiratory tract and skin. Control of the infection was closely related to the control of the underlying disease, with subsequent return of normal marrow function and resolution of neutropenia. The incidence of aspergillus infection has decreased dramatically since 1985, most probably due to the introduction of intranasal amphotericin B. This occurred despite the persistence of aspergillus spores in the hematology ward air during the 1986 to 1988 period. CONCLUSION: Intranasal aerosolized amphotericin B may protect against invasive aspergillosis, even when neutropenic patients are cared for in conventional wards without HEPA filtration. 
Hydronephrosis after aortofemoral bypass graft. A prospective study. This prospective study was designed to determine the frequency and natural history of hydroureteronephrosis (HUN) after placement of an aortobifemoral vascular graft. A total of 30 patients were evaluated by the study protocol, which included: pre and postoperative biological kidney function tests, preoperative and early postoperative (14th day) intravenous pyelograms and a late (mean 18th month) urologic examination by renal ultrasonic tomography. Four asymptomatic, early cases of HUN were observed in the 57 ureters examined (7%); all four complications regressed in less than 30 days. No cases of symptomatic early or late HUN were observed in this series. Asymptomatic early HUN was a frequent complication in our series (7%) but its benign course does not justify systematic screening. These asymptomatic complications contrast with the symptomatic cases of early or late HUN reported in the literature which necessitated urologic and vascular investigations. 
Listeria meningitis and pate. Listeria meningitis occurred in a 63 year old man who was in complete haematological remission following chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukaemia. The patient had followed Department of Health advice to immunocompromised patients and had avoided soft cheeses, cook-chill meals, and salads. He had, however, recently eaten pate produced in Belgium. This was no longer available for examination but a coincidental survey of pate in the Cardiff area found Listeria monocytogenes in 16 out of 73 samples. Pate should be included in the list of foods to be avoided by immunocompromised patients. 
Studies in autotomy: its pathophysiology and usefulness as a model of chronic pain. An interesting behavioral syndrome results in animals from the same or similar types of lesions that lead to deafferentation pain in humans; many neurectomized animals begin to scratch, bite, or self-mutilate their denervated limb, a phenomenon termed autotomy. The proposition that this behavior in animals is a response to the chronic pain of peripheral nerve injury has met with considerable controversy. If this issue were resolved, then a better understanding of the neurophysiology of autotomy might help elucidate the mechanisms of the human conditions. To determine the association between deafferentation and the autotomy behavior, we developed a pharmacologically induced functional deafferentation preparation using chronic perineural lidocaine infusion of the sciatic nerve. This 'chronic lidocaine' model's behavior was compared with that of the neurectomy model. While autotomy was noted in 80% of the latter group, no animal undergoing a chronic perineural infusion of lidocaine autotomized. We thus conclude that autotomy is not a response to non-painful sensory deafferentation, but rather that this behavior is a response to pain. We also studied the development of autotomy in a variety of other focal denervation preparations. On the basis of these data, we conclude that autotomy is not due to loss of sensory input on a functional basis nor to an action potential-mediated process. Rather, nerve damage which coincidentally involves sensory loss is necessary and sufficient for the development of this behavior. We suggest that interruption of a humoral feedback process homeostatically operating within the first order sensory neuron with its effect exerted post-synaptically leads to autotomy. The evidence supports the existence of a loss of a transportable, humoral autotomy inhibitory factor. 
Blood antibodies and uncrossmatched type O blood. The immediate transfusion of uncrossmatched type O blood in the initial resuscitation of the trauma victim remains controversial. To examine difficulties in crossmatching blood for later transfusions after use of uncrossmatched type O blood, we undertook a prospective 23-month study at a level I trauma center. One hundred thirty-five severely injured patients received uncrossmatched type O blood during the study period. Sixty-one patients (45%) died and 76 patients (56%) underwent emergent operation. There were no major transfusion reactions. Six patients had blood antigen-antibodies present on admission, and such antibodies developed in three patients during hospitalization. We conclude that uncrossmatched type O blood may be used safely in the exsanguinating patient, but blood antigen-antibodies, which may complicate later crossmatching, can develop after its use. 
A study of elastic tissue and actinic radiation in "aging," temporal arteritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, and atherosclerosis. The actinic storm in the modern world. Solar radiation provokes a lifelong series of destructive changes in the supporting elastic tissues of "exposed" skin. Called actinic elastosis/lysis (or actinic "aging"), the sequence begins in early life as simple elastic hyperplasia, converts in middle life to progressive actinic elastotic degeneration, and, in late life, typically ends with a stage of resorption (elastolysis) and atrophy ("aged" skin). Superficial "exposed" arteries such as the temporal artery participate in the same sequence of degenerative elastotic changes, which, as in the skin, may provoke granulomatous responses in a few of the many subjects affected. In the case of the temporal artery, a contingent outcome may be giant cell (temporal) arteritis and its recognized systemic vascular expression, polymyalgia rheumatica. Actinic commotion at the surface of the body is often massive in degree and extent and may be expected to exert a deleterious autoimmune impact on the essential elastic tissues of the arterial system. For this reason, solar radiation should be recognized as a risk factor for other elastic-related vascular diseases, including atherosclerosis and aneurysms. Man-made radiations may be exacerbating the effects of predominant solar radiation. Of the many radiant bands that make up the actinic (electromagnetic) spectrum, little is known for certain about the identity of those that cause these prevalent disorders of elastic tissue. Until this void is filled, more care should be taken with solar and the other "safe" radiations. 
The effects of recombinant human interferon-gamma on a panel of human bladder cancer cell lines. We have examined the Major Histocompatibility Complex class II antigen inducing capabilities of recombinant human interferon-gamma, on a panel of human transitional cell carcinoma lines which have been raised from original tumours of varying histological grades: RT4 (grade 1), RT112 (grade 2) and MGH-U1 (grade 3). Cells were examined for class II antigens using an indirect immunofluorescent staining method and analysed on a fluorescence activated cell sorter. Twenty percent of RT4 cells constitutively expressed class II antigen. Both RT112 and MGH-U1 were repeatedly found to be negative for this antigen prior to treatment with interferon-gamma. Following treatment with interferon-gamma all three lines showed an increase in class II antigen expression, which was consistently dependent on both the length of incubation and concentration of interferon-gamma. A differential susceptibility was found amongst the three cell lines which may relate to the histological grade of the parent tumor. 
Optochiasmal arachnoiditis following muslin wrapping of ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysms. Optochiasmal arachnoiditis has been reported following treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms, particularly arising from the anterior communicating artery. It has been suggested that the accompanying loss of vision is due to a muslin-induced optic neuropathy. This paper considers five cases of this condition; the response to steroid therapy was beneficial in three cases. A review of the literature is included. The arachnoiditis is considered to be due to an inflammatory response to muslin gauze placed close to the optic nerves and chiasm. 
Potentially lethal complications of shigellosis. Complications that can lead to death during shigellosis include intestinal as well as systemic manifestations. The former include intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon, and dehydration, and the latter include sepsis, hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, seizures and encephalopathy, hemolyticuremic syndrome, pneumonia, and malnutrition. Data on the frequency of these complications come primarily from hospital-based studies, in which sepsis-either with Shigella or with other Enterobacteriaceae-and hypoglycemia are the most common causes of death. Management of these two complications requires broad-spectrum empiric antibiotic treatment of all severely ill, malnourished patients with shigellosis as well as frequent feedings to prevent hypoglycemia. Unfortunately, in developing countries, access to parenteral broad-spectrum antimicrobial agents is often limited, and frequent feedings are often precluded by the severe anorexia that is characteristic of shigellosis. Realistic approaches to the reduction of mortality from shigellosis must continue to focus on prevention and early antimicrobial therapy rather than on treatment of established complications. 
Acute diverticulitis. A complicated problem in the immunocompromised patient. We reviewed the records of 209 patients with acute diverticulitis treated from 1984 through 1989 to determine if immunocompromised patients have a worse prognosis than nonimmunocompromised patients. Forty immunocompromised patients and 169 nonimmunocompromised patients with acute diverticulitis were identified. Free perforation into the peritoneal cavity occurred in 43% (17/40) of immunocompromised patients and 14% (24/169) of nonimmunocompromised patients. Operations were performed in 58% (23/40) of immunocompromised patients and 33% (55/169) of nonimmunocompromised patients. Postoperative morbidity was 65% (15/23) in immunocompromised patients and 24% (13/55) in nonimmunocompromised patients; postoperative mortality was 39% (9/23) and 2% (1/55), respectively. We conclude that acute diverticulitis in the immunocompromised patient is a complicated problem; there is a greater risk of free perforation and need for surgery than in the nonimmunocompromised patient. Furthermore, the prognosis for immunocompromised patients who undergo surgery is worse than that for nonimmunocompromised patients. 
The effect of transcutaneous nerve stimulation on sphincter of Oddi pressure in patients with biliary dyskinesia. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has been postulated as a neuropeptide with inhibitory neurotransmitter activity in nonadrenergic noncholinergic pathways. Transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS) relaxes the lower esophageal sphincter in patients with achalasia. Such response is accompanied by a 30% increase in VIP concentrations in the systemic circulation. Since the sphincter of Oddi (SO) receives a very dense VIP nerve supply, we evaluate the effect of TENS on SO motor activity and on VIP plasma concentrations in patients with biliary dyskinesia and in healthy volunteers. TENS was performed with a pocket stimulator for 45 min. SO pressure and VIP levels were obtained before and after 45 min of TENS. In patients with SO dyskinesia, TENS produced a significant decrease in SO pressure from 80.1 +/- 11.9 mm Hg to 58.3 +/- 9.7 mm Hg p less than 0.01); this was accompanied by a significant increase in VIP plasma levels from 21.1 +/- 0.5 pg/ml to 32.6 +/- 1.5 pg/ml (p less than 0.01). In healthy volunteers, TENS did not produce significant changes in SO pressure. However, a significant increase in VIP plasma values was observed (p less than 0.01). No significant changes in amplitude, duration and frequency of SO phasic contractions were observed in either of the two groups evaluated. We conclude that, in patients with SO dyskinesia, TENS decreases SO basal pressure, possibly by a direct action of the released VIP in the systemic circulation. In healthy volunteers, TENS increases VIP plasma values without significant effect on SO basal pressure. These findings suggest that the response to TENS may be mediated by VIP. It is also possible that the alterations seen in patients with biliary dyskinesia may be due to impairment of the VIP nerve supply at the level of the SO. 
The effect of diazepam enema on the rectal mucosa of rats. The use of undiluted intravenous diazepam solution administered as an enema has been recommended for the acute management of seizures when intravenous access cannot be obtained. It is well absorbed, rapidly effective, and generally accepted as being safe when used in this manner. The effect of intravenous diazepam solution on the rectal mucosa has not been studied. This study demonstrates that there are no acute changes in the rectal mucosa of adult rats after administration of 10 to 20 times the recommended human dose. 
Myocardial metabolic, hemodynamic, and electrocardiographic significance of reversible thallium-201 abnormalities in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. BACKGROUND. Exercise-induced abnormalities during thallium-201 scintigraphy that normalize at rest frequently occur in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. However, it is not known whether these abnormalities are indicative of myocardial ischemia. METHODS AND RESULTS. Fifty patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy underwent exercise 201Tl scintigraphy and, during the same week, measurement of myocardial lactate metabolism and hemodynamics during pacing stress. Thirty-seven patients (74%) had one or more 201Tl abnormalities that completely normalized after 3 hours of rest; 26 had regional myocardial 201Tl defects, and 26 had apparent left ventricular cavity dilatation with exercise, with 15 having coexistence of these abnormal findings. Of the 37 patients with reversible 201Tl abnormalities, 27 (73%) had metabolic evidence of myocardial ischemia during rapid atrial pacing (myocardial lactate extraction of 0 mmol/l or less) compared with four of 13 patients (31%) with normal 201Tl scans (p less than 0.01). Eleven patients had apparent cavity dilatation as their only 201Tl abnormality; their mean postpacing left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly higher than that of the 13 patients with normal 201Tl studies (33 +/- 5 versus 21 +/- 10 mm Hg, p less than 0.001). There was no correlation between the angiographic presence of systolic septal or epicardial coronary arterial compression and the presence or distribution of 201Tl abnormalities. Patients with ischemic ST segment responses to exercise had an 80% prevalence rate of reversible 201Tl abnormalities and a 70% prevalence rate of pacing-induced ischemia. However, 69% of patients with nonischemic ST segment responses had reversible 201Tl abnormalities, and 55% had pacing-induced ischemia. CONCLUSIONS. Reversible 201Tl abnormalities during exercise stress are markers of myocardial ischemia in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and most likely identify relatively underperfused myocardium. In contrast, ST segment changes with exercise and systolic compression of coronary arteries on angiography are unreliable markers of inducible myocardial ischemia in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Apparent cavity dilatation during 201Tl scintigraphy may indicate ischemia-related changes in left ventricular filling, with elevation in diastolic pressures and endocardial compression. 
Structured lipid made from fish oil and medium-chain triglycerides alters tumor and host metabolism in Yoshida-sarcoma-bearing rats. The effects of structured lipid composed of fish oil and medium-chain triglycerides (Fish/MCT) on tumor and the host metabolism was compared with conventional long-chain triglycerides (LCTs) in Yoshida-sarcoma-bearing rats receiving TPN for 3 d. The two parenterally fed groups were divided into two treatments, saline or tumor necrosis factor (TNF), given intravenously at 20 micrograms/kg body wt. Changes in tumor volume, body weight, urinary nitrogen, whole-body and tissue protein kinetics, and fatty acid composition were measured. The study revealed that Fish/MCT feeding inhibited tumor growth, which could be attributed to decreased tumor protein synthesis. Body weight and nitrogen were better maintained by Fish/MCT feeding. In addition, the effects of Fish/MCT on tumor growth were synergistic with TNF treatment. The results demonstrate that dietary fat composition can influence fatty acid compositions of tumor tissue as well as tumor protein kinetics after a short period of TPN feeding. 
Sclerosing vasculopathy of the central nervous system in nonelderly demented patients. Three nonelderly patients without hypertension whose clinical and radiologic features otherwise resembled Binswanger's subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy underwent biopsy of the hyperintense periventricular lesions seen on magnetic resonance imaging. The pathologic findings of the periventricular lesions consisted of gliosis with mild rarefaction and edema of the white matter. All patients had a sclerosing vasculopathy of unknown cause, which involved numerous small vessels within the periventricular lesions. The vessels stained negatively for amyloid, amyloid precursors, desmin, vimentin, keratin, immunoglobulin, and complement. On electron microscopy, small arteries, arterioles, venules, and capillaries were characterized by swollen astrocytic foot processes surrounding the vessels; dense, perivascular collagen packing; crystalline arrays of filaments within basement membrane; giant lipid-laden lysosomes within perivascular cells; and narrowing of the vascular lumina. Similar changes were not seen in a control group of 19 patients. The pathologic features of the vessels in these cases are distinct from the vasculopathy associated with Binswanger's subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy. We suggest that a spectrum of vasculopathies may be associated with dementia and periventricular hyperintense lesions on magnetic resonance imaging. 
Carcinomas with metaplasia and sarcomas of the breast. The clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and flow cytometric characteristics of 34 cases of mammary carcinoma with metaplasia were compared with those of 20 cases of pure sarcoma of the breast. All 20 of the latter tumors showed the pattern of malignant fibrous histiocytoma. There were 20 cases of carcinoma with mesenchymal metaplasia, 7 cases of carcinoma with mixed epithelial (squamous) and mesenchymal metaplasia, and 7 cases of carcinoma with epithelial metaplasia (four mixed ductal/squamous and three pure squamous cell carcinomas). No patient with pure sarcoma had lymph node metastases develop; all nodal metastases were found in patients who had carcinoma with metaplasia, although in one case the carcinomatous component was seen only within a lymph node metastasis. Epithelial antigens were found not only within the epithelial elements of all cases of carcinoma, but also within the apparent mesenchymal elements of 44% of the carcinomas showing divergent differentiation. Flow cytometric analysis of eight cases of carcinoma with mesenchymal metaplasia showed aneuploidy/tetraploidy in six neoplasms. For patient management purposes, the distinction of pure sarcoma from carcinoma with metaplasia is important, but additional subclassification of carcinoma with metaplasia is of greater biologic than clinical interest. 
Very late recurrence of renal vasculitis. We report a case of renal vasculitis with a relapse occurring 9 and a half years after the original presentation. The plasma creatinine six months before relapse was only 118 mumol/l. During the initial illness there was histological evidence of glomerular damage but at the time of relapse renal biopsy showed the remaining glomeruli to be normal with the destructive process causing fibrinoid necrosis of arteries. 
Myasthenia gravis in mothers and their newborns. Myasthenia gravis is a complex autoimmune disorder. Anti-AChR antibodies destroy elements of the postsynaptic membrane of the myoneural junction in affected muscle groups. This results in decreased nerve-impulse transmission. Myasthenic patients have diminished skeletal muscle strength and tire rapidly with exercise. Pregnancy threatens maternal myasthenic exacerbation and crisis, particularly early in the puerperium. The medication requires frequent adjustment during pregnancy due to changing requirements and physiologic changes in absorption and excretion. Myasthenia results in an increase in maternal mortality, morbidity, pregnancy wastage, and premature labor. Anticholinesterase medications and corticosteroids are the mainstays of medical therapy of maternal MG. Thymectomy, plasmapheresis, immunosuppressant drugs, gamma globulin, and ACTH are adjuvants of varying usefulness. Enforced rest periods, a tranquil environment, and prompt treatment of intercurrent infections are important for myasthenic mothers. The management of myasthenic crisis requires hospital intensive care with mechanical respiratory support and careful monitoring of blood gases. Plasmapheresis is an effective means of controlling crises. It is usually combined with intensive steroid and or immunosuppressant therapy. The myasthenic mother undertakes pregnancy with increased risk to herself and her infant. There is a 40% chance of exacerbation of her MG during pregnancy and an additional 30% risk in the puerperium. Maternal mortality risk is approximately 40 per 1,000 live births. Perinatal mortality approximates 68 per 1,000 births, five times that of uncomplicated pregnancies. Modern management minimizes these risks to the extent that pregnancy is not precluded in myasthenic women. A good outcome depends on meticulous maternal and fetal prenatal surveillance and early detection and management of exacerbations. Facilities and trained personnel must be available to support labor and manage vaginal or operative delivery. Intensive care of myasthenic crises is critical to the prevention of maternal complications and death. 
Plexiform granular cell odontogenic tumor: unicystic variant. Plexiform granular cell odontogenic tumor of the mandible has recently been described. The cardinal histopathologic feature, as its name suggests, is a monophasic plexiform pattern of granular cells; the principal tumor in the differential diagnosis is granular cell ameloblastoma. Unlike the two previously reported cases of plexiform granular cell odontogenic tumor, which occurred as solid tumors in elderly men, the lesion reported here is a unicystic variant occurring in a middle-aged woman. 
The effects of neurokinin A, neurokinin B, and eledoisin on substance P analysis. Commercial sources for neuropeptide radioimmunoassays have made this sensitive tool available to clinical investigators for monitoring the potential involvement of neuropeptides in pain modulation. We measured substance P-like immunoreactivity in the plasma, saliva, and pericardial fluid of subjects with and without pain (chronic and acute) to determine if substance P levels are altered. Some recent studies have suggested that substance P in various body fluids may be a correlate of chronic pain. To test this correlation it is important to ensure that the assay is measuring what it was designed to measure. Therefore, the influence of three tachykinins on the analysis of substance P concentrations was assessed with a commercially available radioimmunoassay kit. A small (approximately 2 to 6%), apparently nonspecific elevation in measured substance P was found when alpha-neurokinin, beta-neurokinin, or eledoisin was incubated with substance P and its antibody. Our results also indicate an apparent specific affinity of the substance P antibody for alpha-neurokinin (above 1,000 pg/ml) and beta-neurokinin (above 5,000 pg/ml). Substance P levels in the body fluids we tested ranged from 0.47 to 62.88 pg/mg protein (47.4 to 230.8 pg/ml). Levels of the tested tachykinins have not been determined in body fluids. If alpha-neurokinin or beta-neurokinin is found to be present in high concentrations in these fluids, this commercially available substance P kit may overestimate substance P levels. The concentrations of tachykinins necessary to interfere specifically with the assay are 10- to 100-fold higher than substance P in body fluids. 
Hypoxemia is associated with mitochondrial DNA damage and gene induction. Implications for cardiac disease OBJECTIVE.--Oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) deficiency due to hypoxemia or other causes was hypothesized to increase oxygen radical generation, damage mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and reduce adenosine triphosphate synthesis, resulting in compensatory OXPHOS gene induction. Therefore, we investigated the levels of mtDNA damage and OXPHOS transcripts in normal and ischemic hearts, and then in other forms of heart disease. DESIGN.--DNA was extracted from the heart and the levels of the common 4977 base pair mtDNA deletion were quantitated as an index for mtDNA damage. Total RNA was extracted from hearts and analyzed for OXPHOS transcript levels. RESULTS.--In control hearts, the 4977 base pair mtDNA deletion appeared at age 40 years and reached a maximum deletion of 0.0035%. Much higher levels were found in ischemic hearts (0.02% to 0.85%), as well as in three of 10 cases with other types of heart disease (0.017% to 0.16%). The OXPHOS transcripts were increased in all diseased hearts. CONCLUSION.--Ischemic hearts have increased mtDNA damage and OXPHOS gene expression, suggesting that mtDNA damage is associated with OXPHOS deficiency. Oxidative phosphorylation defects may also play a role in some other forms of cardiac disease. 
Stereotactic multiple arc radiotherapy. A radiotherapy technique is presented for delivering a concentrated pattern of absorbed dose to intracranial lesions. Treatment takes place on a conventional, isocentrically mounted linear accelerator, rotated in several planes around a single target site. A new, relocatable stereotactic frame is used which enables fractionated radiotherapy to be administered if required. Calculations of the absorbed dose distribution in three orthogonal planes are performed using specially prepared software on a computer used for standard treatment planning. In this way, the need for excessive computing power is avoided. 
Hypothermia in the summer. We have presented two cases of hypothermia associated with altered mental status occurring during the summer in the sunbelt. Both cases represent nonexposure hypothermia of multifactorial origin requiring prompt aggressive diagnostic and therapeutic intervention. The effects of phenothiazines, alcoholism, Wernicke's encephalopathy, Parkinson's disease, and altered mental status contributed to the development of hypothermia in these instances. Although both patients survived and were discharged from the hospital, it is likely that hypothermia in such situations has a higher mortality. Awareness of the broad differential of predisposing conditions is mandatory in treating such patients in a timely fashion. 
A quantitative approach to radiography of the lower limb. Principles and applications. A method is described which provides standardised reproducible radiographic images of the lower limb. Anteroposterior and lateral radiographs are digitised and processed by computer to provide graphic/numeric displays of angles and linear measurements, relating the centre points of the hip, knee, and ankle. Two cases illustrate how surgical planning is facilitated when standardised data are available. These data confirm the close relationship between postoperative limb alignment and positioning of prosthetic elements. 
The Edmonton injector: a simple device for patient-controlled subcutaneous analgesia. In a prospective open study we tested the Edmonton injector (EI), a device designed by our group for subcutaneous injection of narcotics. In 25 patients, the EI was used for patient-controlled analgesia (PCA); mean duration of treatment was 28 +/- 10 days. Mean equivalent daily dose of morphine was 160 +/- 85 mg. All patients found the EI safe and simple to operate. The main reason for discontinuation was death (10 cases) or return to oral narcotics (8 cases). In 20 patients who were admitted to the hospital and were too ill to learn PCA, the EI was used for regular s.c. administration by nurses. Narcotics were administered every 4 h and extra doses were administered on a 'PRN' basis. Waiting time for a 'PRN' dose in 8 patients before starting the EI was 18 +/- 7 min; after the EI was started, it was 3 +/- 4 min (P less than 0.01). We conclude that the EI is safe, effective and inexpensive, and that it will be particularly useful in smaller hospitals and developing countries. 
Liquid-propane freeze injury: a case history. Exposure of skin to liquid propane causes a severe freeze injury. This cutaneous injury has the appearance of a partial-thickness thermal injury of indeterminate depth, but the deep tissue damage is greater than is at first apparent. A case history is presented that illustrates the severity of this particular mechanism of injury and the need for adequate safety precautions. 
Acid secretory changes and early relapse following duodenal ulcer healing with ranitidine or sucralfate. Controversial aspects relating to acid secretory changes following duodenal ulcer healing, and the effect of histamine-2 (H2)-receptor blockers on such changes are discussed. Recent studies comparing the effects of ranitidine or sucralfate on changes in the acid secretory responses in the healing of duodenal ulcers are described, and the relevance of these changes to early relapse considered. The duration of therapy and timing of acid-secretory studies and endoscopies are standardized in all studies, but the acid-secretory parameters vary. These comprised acid secretory responses to graded doses of an intravenous infusion of pentagastrin or histamine, sham-feeding responses, and basal and nocturnal acid secretion. In all studies, healing with sucralfate was associated with a significant decrease in the various parameters of acid secretion. In the ranitidine-healed groups, no appreciable decrease was noted and there was, indeed, a significant increase in nocturnal acid secretion. Routine endoscopies performed 4-6 weeks after documented ulcer healing showed a recurrence of 3 of the 32 (9%) sucralfate-healed and in 14 of the 35 (40%) ranitidine-healed ulcers. Increased acid secretory responsiveness following duodenal ulcer healing was strongly correlated with subsequent early relapse. 
Selection of the approach to the distal internal carotid artery from the second cervical vertebra to the base of the skull. Although several approaches for exposure of distal internal carotid artery lesions have been reported, the precise anatomic levels for which each of these maneuvers are most appropriate have not been well described. Since these techniques may require preoperative preparation, it is useful to determine in advance how much exposure will be needed and to select the most suitable and effective technique. We used anatomic dissection in 12 human cadaver specimens (24 carotid bifurcations) to define the limits of distal internal carotid artery exposure by several commonly advocated methods. The standard anterior approach along the sternocleidomastoid muscle allowed exposure of the internal carotid artery to the level of the upper one third of the second cervical vertebra. The upper limit of this exposure was extended to the middle of the first cervical vertebra by division of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Anterior subluxation of the mandible increased the distal exposure of the internal carotid artery to the superior border of the first cervical vertebra. Styloidectomy in combination with the preceding maneuvers extended the exposure an additional 0.5 cm cephalad. Lateral mandibulotomy did not significantly extend exposure beyond that obtained with mandibular subluxation and styloidectomy. Exposure of the internal carotid artery in the 1 cm immediately below the base of the skull required a posterior approach with mastoidectomy. 
Effects of calcium antagonists on glomerular hemodynamics and structure in experimental hypertension. The RK, DS, and UNX SHR rats are related models of progressive renal disease characterized by the presence of severe systemic hypertension and reduction in renal mass. In these models, glomerular injury is related to increased glomerular pressure and to kidney and glomerular hypertrophy. As summarized in Table 1, administration of a calcium antagonist reduces the prevalence of glomerular sclerosis in all three models. Calcium antagonists have many effects that might tend to reduce renal injury. Similar to the ACE inhibitors, they may reduce PGC, although a protective effect has been observed in some models despite persistence of marked glomerular capillary hypertension. Calcium antagonists also appear to inhibit compensatory renal growth. The observation that these drugs lessen injury in experimental hypertension has important implications for the treatment of patients with hypertension and renal disease. However, widespread use of calcium antagonists specifically to prevent kidney damage should await the results of controlled clinical trials. 
Acute fulminant hepatic failure. Fulminant hepatic failure is the rapid onset of life-threatening hepatic decompensation in patients who have no previous history of liver disease. This condition has a multifactorial etiology, including viral hepatitis and drug toxicity. At this time there is no specific therapy for FHF. However, early diagnosis and treatment of the complications--in particular, cerebral edema--may prolong survival and prevent irreversible neurologic complications. Once the diagnosis has been made, patients with FHF should promptly be transferred to a specialized liver care unit where liver transplantation is available. Liver transplantation is now the treatment of choice for patients with clinical characteristics suggesting a poor chance of survival. 
Problems encountered with the Bethesda System: the University of Iowa experience. This paper provides a descriptive summary of 1 year's experience with the Bethesda Cytologic Classification System at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics. Cytotechnologists and pathologists criticized the failure of the new classification system to provide microscopic criteria for the following categories: adequacy of the smear (satisfactory, less than optimal, unsatisfactory), atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, atypical glandular cells of undetermined significance, and inflammation-associated changes. Clinicians criticized the "less than optimal" category and the reporting of koilocytosis, moderate dysplasia, and endometrial cells. Suggestions for modifying the Bethesda System include: eliminating the less than optimal response, defining what constitutes an unsatisfactory smear, eliminating the terms low-grade and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion, and changing the reporting of endometrial cells. 
Microglandular adenosis of the breast. An immunohistochemical comparison with tubular carcinoma. Microglandular adenosis (MA) of the breast is a benign, disorganized proliferation of glands lined by a single layer of cells. As such, differential diagnosis between MA and tubular carcinoma may be challenging in selected cases. A panel of antibodies was applied to 10 cases of MA and 10 of tubular carcinoma to investigate the potential benefit of immunohistochemistry in the separation of these lesions and the possible role of myoepithelial cells in MA. The luminal cells in nine cases of MA were surrounded by a cuff of muscle-specific actin-reactive cells, which also coexpressed cytokeratin and vimentin. The immunophenotype of these cells is characteristic of myoepithelial differentiation, which was heretofore thought to be lacking in MA. This finding demonstrates that myoepithelial cells are indeed present in MA subjacent to luminal epithelial cells; moreover, it distinghuishes MA from tubular carcinoma, all examples of which were actin negative in this analysis. In addition, circumferential type IV collagen deposition was observed around constituent glands of MA in nine cases but was lacking in all tubular carcinomas. Other markers included in this evaluation (S100 protein, gross cystic disease fluid protein 15, carcinoembryonic antigen, estrogen receptor protein) were of no differential diagnostic value. 
Propranolol in the prevention of the first hemorrhage from esophagogastric varices: A multicenter, randomized clinical trial. The Boston-New Haven-Barcelona Portal Hypertension Study Group. To assess the effectiveness of propranolol in the prevention of initial variceal hemorrhage, a double-blind, randomized trial was carried out in three centers. Patients with cirrhosis (78% alcoholic), hepatic venous pressure gradients greater than 12 mm Hg and endoscopically proven esophageal varices were randomly assigned to propranolol (51 patients) or placebo (51 patients). Of the 102 patients, 58% were Child's class A, 34% were Child's class B and 8% were Child's class C. Daily dosage was determined by the administration of progressively increasing doses of propranolol with the hepatic vein catheter in place to achieve a 25% decrease in hepatic venous pressure gradient, a decrease in hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm Hg or a decrease in resting heart rate to less than 55 beats/min. During a mean follow-up period of 16.3 mo, 11 patients in the placebo group (22%) bled from esophageal varices compared with 2 in the propranolol group (4%) during a mean period of 17.1 mo (p less than 0.01). Three additional patients (6%) in the placebo group bled from portal hypertensive gastropathy compared with none in the propranolol group. Propranolol appeared effective in preventing bleeding from large varices. Eleven deaths (22%) occurred in the placebo group compared with eight deaths (16%) in the propranolol group (NS). The mean dose of propranolol was 132 mg/day, and the median dose was 80 mg/day. Using a compliance index (pill count, clinic attendance, alcohol and propranolol levels and alcohol history), 81% of the propranolol patients and 77% of the placebo patients were considered compliant. Complications severe enough to require cessation of therapy occurred in eight patients (16%) in the propranolol group and four in the placebo group (8%) (NS). We conclude that propranolol effectively prevents the first variceal hemorrhage in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and large esophageal varices but does not improve survival. 
Stump pressure, the contralateral carotid artery, and electroencephalographic changes. Electroencephalographic (EEG) monitoring and measurement of stump pressure are the most widely employed methods of assessing the risk of cerebral ischemia during carotid endarterectomy. The status of the contralateral carotid artery has also been thought to influence the need for placing a shunt. The relationship of EEG monitoring, stump pressure, and the contralateral carotid artery has not been completely delineated. We retrospectively reviewed these three variables in 113 patients undergoing 124 carotid endarterectomies. The contralateral artery was classified as occluded, stenotic (greater than 50% decrease in diameter), or nonstenotic. There was a 48% incidence of EEG changes with contralateral occlusion, 18% with stenosis, and 21% with nonstenotic arteries (p = 0.014). There was a 73% incidence of EEG changes when the stump pressure was less than 25 mm Hg, 32% when the stump pressure was 25 to 50 mm Hg, and 2% when the stump pressure was greater than 50 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). There was no significant difference in the mean stump pressure for patients with occlusion (43.8 mm Hg), stenosis (44.7 mm Hg), or nonstenotic contralateral arteries (51.3 mm Hg). All patients with contralateral occlusion and a stump pressure less than 25 mm Hg had EEG changes. No patient with a stump pressure greater than 50 mm Hg and a patent contralateral artery had EEG changes. Although the incidence of EEG changes in the majority of patients was not accurately predicted by the stump pressure and the status of the contralateral carotid artery, stump pressure less than or equal to 50 mm Hg was sensitive, identifying 97% of patients with EEG changes. 
Malignant lymphoma of the urinary bladder. A case with signet-ring cells simulating urachal adenocarcinoma. We describe a malignant lymphoma involving the dome and anterior wall of the urinary bladder in an elderly woman. The initial biopsy showed a malignant neoplasm of uncertain cell type. Because the clinical presentation was most compatible with urachal adenocarcinoma, an extensive resection was performed. Microscopically, the excised tumor was composed of large lymphoid cells with isolated and clustered signet-ring cells. Immunohistochemical analysis established the B-cell phenotype of the neoplasm, and electron microscopy of the signet-ring cells revealed endoplasmic reticulum-bound inclusions consistent with immunoglobulin. Primary malignant lymphomas of the urinary bladder are rare, and, to our knowledge, we report the first example with signet-ring cells. We emphasize this histopathologic finding because of the potential for confusion with urachal adenocarcinoma. 
Is adult-onset coeliac disease due to a low-grade lymphoma of intraepithelial T lymphocytes? Enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma commonly presents with malabsorption, and debate continues as to whether adult-onset coeliac disease (CD) is itself a form of low-grade lymphoma. A 59-year-old man with adult-onset CD required resection of a segment of oedematous jejunum. Histological examination of this tissue revealed an intense intraepithelial lymphocytosis. Immunophenotypic (CD3-, CD4-, CD8-, CD34-, and CD45 RO-) and cytogenetic (deletion of the Y chromosome and chromosome 9) abnormalities were found, together with monoclonal T-cell-receptor gene rearrangements. Some patients with adult-onset CD may have low-grade lymphoma from the outset of their illness. 
Treatment of chronic pain by epidural spinal cord stimulation: a 10-year experience. Epidural spinal cord stimulation by means of chronically implanted electrodes was carried out on 121 patients with pain of varied benign organic etiology. In 116 patients, the pain was confined to the back and lower extremities and, of these, 56 exhibited the failed-back syndrome. Most patients were referred by a pain management service because of failure of conventional pain treatment modalities. Electrodes were implanted at varying sites, dictated by the location of pain. A total of 140 epidural implants were used: 76 unipolar, 46 Resume electrodes, 12 bipolar, and six quadripolar. Patients were followed for periods ranging from 6 months to 10 years, with a mean follow-up period of 40 months. Forty-eight patients (40%) were able to control their pain by neurostimulation alone. A further 14 patients (12%), in addition to following a regular stimulation program, needed occasional analgesic supplements to achieve 50% or more relief of the prestimulation pain. Pain secondary to arachnoiditis or perineural fibrosis following multiple intervertebral disc operations, when predominantly confined to one lower extremity, seemed to respond favorably to this treatment. Uniformly good results were also obtained in lower-extremity pain secondary to multiple sclerosis. Pain due to advanced peripheral vascular disease of the lower limbs was well controlled, and amputation below the knee was delayed for up to 2 years in some patients. Pain due to cauda equina injury, paraplegic pain, phantom-limb pain, pure midline back pain without radiculopathy, or pain due to primary bone or joint disease seemed to respond less well. Patients who responded to preliminary transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation generally did well with electrode implants. Notable complications included wound infection, electrode displacement or fracturing, and fibrosis at the stimulating tip of the electrode. Three patients in this series died due to unrelated causes. Epidural spinal cord stimulation has proven to be an effective and safe means of controlling pain on a long-term basis in selected groups of patients. The mechanism of action of stimulation-produced analgesia remains unclear; further studies to elucidate it might allow spinal cord stimulation to be exploited more effectively in disorders that are currently refractory to this treatment modality. 
Cine magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosis of right coronary arterial-ventricular fistula. In two cases of coronary arterial-ventricular fistula, detailed morphologic evaluation of the affected coronary artery was performed by MRI. Cine-MRI enabled both identification of the fistula and evaluation of the direction of shunt blood flow. Thus, MRI is a valuable noninvasive procedure in the anatomic and physiologic diagnosis of coronary arterial fistula. 
Root of the superior mesenteric artery in pancreatitis and pancreatic carcinoma: evaluation with CT To determine if changes involving the root of the superior mesenteric artery are specific for neoplasm, the authors retrospectively reviewed 173 computed tomographic (CT) examinations of patients with proved pancreatitis (103 examinations) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (70 examinations). Streaky infiltration of the fat surrounding the root was seen in 27 of 56 examinations of acute pancreatitis, in four of 24 examinations of chronic pancreatitis, in 12 of 23 examinations of pancreatitis complicated by abscess, and in 25 of 70 examinations of pancreatic carcinoma. Periarterial lymph nodes were visible in 14 with acute pancreatitis, in three with chronic pancreatitis, in six with pancreatic abscess, and in 11 with pancreatic carcinoma. A focal mass extended to within 1 cm of the root in 10 with acute pancreatitis, in two with chronic pancreatitis, in four with pancreatic abscess, and in 24 with pancreatic carcinoma; the mass obliterated the periarterial fat in seven with acute pancreatitis, in one with pancreatic abscess, and in 18 with pancreatic carcinoma. Circumferential encasement occurred in one with chronic pancreatitis, in four with pancreatic abscess, in 14 with pancreatic carcinoma, and in none with acute pancreatitis; nearly all cases of encasement revealed loss of periarterial fat. Thus, these indicators are not specific for neoplasm. 
Study of belching ability in antireflux surgery patients and normal volunteers. The ability to belch was evaluated by a novel test, after gaseous stomach distension to standard volume, in 16 patients after antireflux surgery and nine healthy volunteers. A structured assessment of dyspeptic symptoms was also carried out in both groups. Repeat studies in volunteers showed acceptable reproducibility for the new test of belching capacity (within-subject coefficient of variance 4.5 per cent). After antireflux surgery, patients had lower volume individual belches (median(range) 27.5(0-104) ml in patients versus 76(15-165) ml in volunteers; P less than 0.02) and belched less gas within 1 h of the stimulus than volunteers (median(range) 205(0-1363) ml in patients versus 456(45-818) ml in volunteers; P less than 0.05). Belching frequency was similar in both groups. The incidence and severity of symptoms were unrelated to belched gas volumes. 
Platelet-free calcium and vascular calcium uptake in ethanol-induced hypertensive rats. This study examined the effect of moderate ethanol intake on systolic blood pressure, platelet cytosolic free calcium, aortic calcium, and rubidium-86 uptake in Wistar-Kyoto rats. Twelve Wistar-Kyoto rats, aged 6 weeks, were given 5% ethanol in drinking water the first week followed by 10% ethanol in drinking water for the next 6 weeks. Twelve control animals were given regular tap water. Systolic blood pressure in the ethanol-treated rats was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than that in controls after 1 week and remained higher throughout the study. At 13 weeks of age, platelet cytosolic free calcium and calcium uptake by aortas were significantly higher (p less than 0.001) in ethanol-treated animals as compared with those in controls. Ethanol intake did not affect aortic ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake. The in vitro effect of ethanol on calcium-45 and 86Rb uptake was also investigated in aortas of untreated Wistar-Kyoto rats at 13 weeks of age. In vitro ethanol (2.5-20 mmols/l) did not significantly affect 45Ca and 86Rb uptake in rat aortas. The increases in systolic blood pressure, platelet cytosolic free calcium, and vascular calcium uptake suggest that increases in cytosolic free calcium and calcium uptake mechanisms are associated with ethanol-induced hypertension. 
Estimating the likelihood of severe coronary artery disease. PURPOSE: To determine which clinical characteristics obtained by a physician during an initial clinical examination are important for estimating the likelihood of severe coronary artery disease, and to determine whether estimates based on these characteristics remain valid when applied prospectively and in different patient groups. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined clinical characteristics predictive of severe disease in 6,435 consecutive symptomatic patients referred for suspected coronary artery disease between 1969 and 1983. RESULTS: Eleven of 23 characteristics were important for estimating the likelihood of severe coronary artery disease. A model using these characteristics accurately estimated the likelihood of severe disease in an independent sample of 2,342 patients referred since 1983. The model also accurately estimated the prevalence of severe disease in large series of patients reported in the literature. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the clinician's initial evaluation can identify patients at high or low risk of anatomically severe coronary artery disease. Cost-conscious quality care is encouraged by identifying patients at higher risk for severe coronary artery disease who are most likely to benefit from further evaluation. 
Cost and benefit of secondary prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. OBJECTIVE--To determine the relative cost and benefit of aerosolized pentamidine and the combination product of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim sulfate as secondary prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. DESIGN--A Markov-based cost-benefit analysis was performed. Drug efficacies, toxicities, and mortality rates were drawn from the current literature. SETTING--Hypothetical. PATIENT POPULATION--Patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus who had had at least one episode of P carinii pneumonia. INTERVENTIONS--Regimen 1 required the use of aerosolized pentamidine as the sole first-line prophylactic agent in all patients. Regimen 2 required the use of sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim in all patients who had no history of a toxic reaction to the drug; only patients with a history of toxic effects and those who developed toxic effects while receiving the drug would receive aerosolized pentamidine. Regimen 3 required that no secondary prophylaxis be given. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Net cost, median patient survival, and 5-year survival for each regimen and for regimens 1 and 2 compared with regimen 3. MAIN RESULTS--Regimen 2 was dominant, with a net cost of $6332 per patient and a median survival of 2.050 years. Compared with no prophylaxis, regimen 2 resulted in a savings of $16,503 per patient and a 0.696-year increase in median survival. Compared with regimen 1, regimen 2 resulted in a savings of $2904 and a 0.067-year increase in median survival. CONCLUSIONS--Secondary prophylaxis for P carinii saves money and extends survival. Current data suggest that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim should be given whenever it can be tolerated. Use of aerosolized pentamidine as a first-line agent would result in a modest increase in cost and a decrease in life expectancy. 
Small bowel obstruction after colon resection for benign and malignant diseases. To determine the etiology and outcome of patients with small bowel obstruction after a colon resection for benign and malignant diseases, the medical records of 118 patients who underwent 120 laparotomies for small bowel obstruction were reviewed. Contrary to previous reports, benign adhesions were responsible for the obstruction in all patients with a history of benign colon disease, 82.6 percent of patients with a history of adenocarcinoma of the colon without known recurrence, and 30.1 percent of patients with known recurrent malignancy. The morbidity and mortality was more related to the etiology of the obstruction rather than the preoperative delay or operative procedure performed. Considering the high likelihood of adhesive obstruction in patients with a history of, or known, metastatic colorectal carcinoma, it is suggested that these not deter surgeons from aggressive early surgical intervention in these patients who develop small bowel obstruction. 
Epidemiological characteristics of subarachnoid hemorrhage in an urban population. Several risk factors for unfavorable outcome from subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) have been identified. The prevalence of such risk factors varies among ethnic groups and among men and women. The influence of ethnic background and gender as factors in the outcome after SAH has not been adequately studied and is the focus of the present investigation. Outcome in 145 consecutive patients was dichotomized as good and moderately disabled vs severely disabled, vegetative, and dead. A multiple logistic regression model was used to examine the factors of gender, ethnic group (white and non-white), age, admission neurological grade, pre-existing hypertension, and intravenous drug abuse. Our data reveal that hypertensive, white males, with a history of intravenous drug abuse, have a high risk of unfavorable outcome following SAH. These observations are important for the design and interpretation of future studies relating to SAH. 
Iodine-125 interstitial implants as salvage therapy for recurrent gynecologic malignancies. Twenty-one patients with the diagnosis of recurrent gynecologic pelvic malignancy from various primary sites were treated with iodine-125 (I-125) interstitial implants. Eighteen of these patients had been treated with a combination of surgery and radiation therapy for their primary malignancies and 90% had responded. Seventy-five percent had complete local responses. The overall survival time, volume-response relationship, and complications are discussed and the radioresponse of various histologic types is presented. 
Delayed presentation and treatment of popliteal artery embolism. In the course of reviewing a 10-year experience with popliteal artery embolism (PAE), two distinct patterns of clinical presentation were identified. In addition to those patients presenting with typical acute (symptom duration less than 7 days) arterial ischemia, a second group was identified who presented with more chronic symptoms. The present study was conducted to contrast the clinical factors and treatment of these two temporal patterns of presentation with PAE. Sixty PAEs in 58 patients were documented by the combination of angiography and/or exploration of the popliteal artery. Acute presentation (AP) was seen in 41 (68%) of these and delayed presentation (DP) was noted in 19 (32%) patients. Delayed presentation patients typically presented with a history of sudden onset of claudication or rest pain and a median symptom duration of 30 days. Eighty per cent of AP patients presented with immediately threatened limbs. Angiography was generally diagnostic of chronic popliteal embolism. In the acute group, 90% were treated with embolectomy alone, while 20% of the DP group required bypass grafting. However in two thirds of the DP group, embolectomy alone performed through a direct popliteal approach was possible. Current results with overall limb salvage (92%) and mortality (7%) represents a substantial improvement compared to the authors' previous experience with PAE. The current study suggests that as many as one third of patients with popliteal artery embolism may present in delayed fashion with chronic symptoms. Furthermore most of these patients can be treated with direct popliteal embolectomy alone with favorable results. 
Patterns of morbidity and mortality in typhoid fever dependent on age and gender: review of 552 hospitalized patients with diarrhea. Features of typhoid fever were correlated with age and gender through a review of the charts of 552 hospitalized culture-positive patients with diarrhea in Bangladesh. Seizures occurred more frequently in children from birth through 10 years of age (5%-11%) and pneumonia more frequently in children from birth through 5 years of age (8%-15%) than in older age groups (P less than .05), whereas intestinal perforation occurred more frequently in patients greater than or equal to 11 years of age (5%-25%) than in younger age groups (P less than .005). Compared with older age groups, children from birth through 10 years of age were more anemic, those from birth through 5 years of age had a higher mean white blood cell count, and those from birth through 1 year of age had a lower mean blood carbon dioxide content (all P less than .05). Female patients were more severely anemic than male patients (P less than .05). The case-fatality rate was 4.3% overall, with the highest rates for children from birth through 1 year of age (11%) and adults greater than or equal to 31 years of age (10%). Female patients had a higher case-fatality rate (6%) than male patients (3%), although the difference was not significant (P greater than .05). Death was independently associated with seizures, intestinal perforation, pneumonia, and delirium or coma. These results indicated that the patients with typhoid fever who were at highest risk of complications and death were children from birth through 1 year of age and adults greater than or equal to 31 years of age. 
Effect of nitroglycerin on coronary collateral function during exercise evaluated by quantitative analysis of thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography. A noninfarcted, entirely collateral-dependent myocardial region provides an opportunity to assess the effect of nitroglycerin on coronary collateral function during exercise. Stress thallium-201 computed tomography was performed in seven patients with effort angina and no history of myocardial infarction, both before and after nitroglycerin (0.3 mg). All patients had single-vessel disease with total or subtotal (99% with delay) occlusion of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery and well-developed collaterals. The pressure-rate product, mean blood pressure, and heart rate at peak exercise did not differ before and after nitroglycerin. The size of the perfusion defect and the severity of ischemia during exercise estimated by quantitative analysis of thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography were significantly less after nitroglycerin administration (extent score: 23 +/- 17 vs 7 +/- 9, p less than 0.01; severity score: 20 +/- 22 vs 3 +/- 4, p less than 0.05). The pressure-rate products at peak exercise did not differ before and after nitroglycerin, which suggested that the reduction in perfusion defect size was unlikely to be the result of decreased myocardial oxygen consumption. These results suggest that nitroglycerin improved coronary collateral function during exercise and thus prevented exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. 
Benign positional vertigo: incidence and prognosis in a population-based study in Olmsted County, Minnesota. A retrospective review of our population-based medical records linkage system for residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, revealed 53 patients (34 women and 19 men; mean age, 51 years) with newly diagnosed benign positional vertigo in 1984. The age- and sex-adjusted incidence was 64 per 100,000 population per year (95% confidence interval, 46 to 81 per 100,000). The incidence of benign positional vertigo increased by 38% with each decade of life (95% confidence interval, 23 to 54%). One patient had an initial stroke during follow-up; thus, the relative risk for new stroke associated with benign positional vertigo was 1.62 (95% confidence interval, 0.04 to 8.98) in comparison with the expected occurrence based on incidence rates for an age- and sex-adjusted control population. The observed survival among the 53 Olmsted County residents with benign positional vertigo diagnosed in 1984 was not significantly different from that of an age- and sex-matched general population. Patients with benign positional vertigo seem to have a good prognosis. 
Value of regional wall motion abnormality in the emergency room diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. A prospective study using two-dimensional echocardiography. Because regional wall motion abnormality (RWMA) is usually noted during ischemia, we hypothesized that the presence of this finding with two-dimensional echocardiography would be superior to conventional methods of diagnosing acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in the emergency room. We also hypothesized that because the absence of RWMA would probably not be associated with AMI, the use of two-dimensional echocardiography would significantly limit unnecessary hospital admissions. To test these hypotheses, we undertook a prospective study that used two-dimensional echocardiography in 180 patients presenting to the emergency room with symptoms suggestive of AMI. The emergency room physicians were not informed of the two-dimensional echocardiography findings, and their decision to admit or not admit to the hospital was based on conventional clinical and electrocardiographic criteria. Forty patients were not admitted to the hospital and 140 were admitted. Of the 30 patients with enzyme-confirmed AMI, nine had typical ST elevation on the ECG that was consistent with acute injury, three had normal ECGs, and eight had ECGs in the presence of which AMI could not have been diagnosed (left bundle branch block, paced rhythm, or repolarization changes); the rest had nonspecific ECG findings. Of the 29 AMI patients with technically adequate two-dimensional echocardiography studies, two did not demonstrate RWMA and 27 had RWMA, compared with nine with diagnostic ECG changes (p less than 0.001). Of the 13 patients with in-hospital complications only four had an initial ECG showing ST elevation, and all 13 had RWMA (p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Autoimmunity after alpha-interferon therapy for malignant carcinoid tumors. OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of autoantibodies and autoimmune disease and their influence on therapeutic results during alpha-interferon treatment in patients with malignant midgut carcinoid tumors. DESIGN: Consecutive sample of patients. SETTING: University hospital. PATIENTS: One hundred thirty-five patients (70 women, 65 men; median age, 59 years) with biopsy-proven tumors, liver metastases, and no autoimmune disease. INTERVENTIONS: Leukocyte alpha-interferon (n = 88) or alpha-interferon 2b (n = 47) three times a week. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Signs and symptoms of autoimmune disease or development of autoantibodies to thyroid antigens, nuclear antigens, or gastric parietal cells. Tumor responses were determined by reduced liver metastases or reduced urinary 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid excretion, or both. RESULTS: Twenty-five patients (19%) developed the following autoimmune disorders after a median of 9 months of therapy: thyroid disease (n = 18), systemic lupus erythematosus (n = 1), pernicious anemia (n = 4), and vasculitis (n = 2). Antibodies to microsomal thyroid antigen or thyroglobulin were detected in 16 patients before therapy and in another 11 patients during therapy. Antinuclear antibodies were detected in 16 patients before and in another 19 patients during therapy. Clinical thyroid disease developed in more than 60% of patients who had or developed thyroid antibodies but in only 7% of initially autoantibody-negative patients. Autoimmunity did not correlate with objective tumor response. CONCLUSION: Patients with malignant carcinoid tumors may develop autoimmune disease during alpha-interferon therapy, especially when autoantibodies are present. They should therefore be monitored for autoimmunity, which does not appear, however, to influence tumor responses. 
Chylous ascites and lymphocyst management by peritoneovenous shunt. Although lymphocyst (retroperitoneal lymphocele) is not an uncommon complication after retroperitoneal surgery, with a reported incidence ranging from 0.6% to 48%, the occurrence of chylous ascites is a rare phenomenon. Most reports are anecdotal, and hospital records list the incidence of diagnosis as 0.001% of admissions. Diagnosis of chylous ascites is usually not difficult, inasmuch as aspiration and chemical analysis of the fluid yield the answer. Visualization of retroperitoneal fluid collection by computerized tomography or ultrasonography, however, does always raise the possibility of recurrence of tumor in cases where the primary operation was for cancer. Treatment of smaller lesions can be expectant. Respiratory exercises causing an increase in negative intrathoracic pressure may aid in the movement of fluid through the lymphatics. For larger collections, elemental diets and total parenteral nutrition are also often enough, but surgery is sometimes required. Simple insertion of a peritoneovenous shunt, as in this patient, can be as effective as major operations such as identification and ligation of the offending lymphatic or marsupialization of the cyst. 
Subarachnoid hemorrhage in sickle-cell disease. The neurological complications of sickle-cell disease include cerebral intracerebral hemorrhage; subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has been infrequently reported. Among 325 patients with sickle-cell disease followed at the University of Illinois between 1975 and 1989, 11 cases of SAH were identified. Aneurysms were found in 10 of these patients, three of whom had multiple aneurysms. All of the patients had some degree of anemia and nine underwent craniotomy without hematological or neurological complications. From this review it appears that SAH is not uncommon in sickle-cell disease patients and tends to occur at a younger age and with smaller aneurysm size than in the general population. With proper perioperative management, including exchange transfusions to reduce the proportion of hemoglobin S to less than 30%, these patients can undergo angiography and craniotomy without an increased incidence of complications. The techniques used in managing sickle-cell disease patients with SAH are discussed. 
Determinants of perinatal outcome in pregnancy-induced hypertension with absence of umbilical artery end-diastolic frequencies. Forty-three pregnancies that were complicated by pregnancy-induced hypertension and either absence of umbilical artery end-diastolic frequencies (n = 32) or reversal of umbilical artery end-diastolic frequencies (n = 11) were reviewed. The incidence of perinatal mortality and morbidity was similar for the two Doppler patterns. Perinatal survival was highly dependent on the gestational age when hypertension first appeared. Presentation at greater than or equal to 30 weeks' gestation was associated with a perinatal survival rate of 86%. Presentation at less than 30 weeks' gestation was associated with a perinatal survival rate of 38% (p less than 0.005). Pregnancy-induced hypertension that presented before 30 weeks was more often associated with a 5-minute Apgar score less than 7 (p less than 0.005) and a nonreactive nonstress test (p less than 0.05) compared with pregnancy-induced hypertension that presented at or beyond 30 weeks. For pregnancies that presented before 30 weeks, the only difference between perinatal survivors (n = 11) and perinatal deaths (n = 18) was a higher incidence of birth weight at or below the 10th percentile among deaths (p = 0.02). 
Comparison of ondansetron and ondansetron plus dexamethasone as antiemetic prophylaxis during cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. Ondansetron, a serotonin antagonist, is effective in controlling the emesis associated with cancer chemotherapy; however, emesis in patients receiving high-dose cisplatin is poorly controlled by ondansetron alone. Dexamethasone is an effective antiemetic with no known interaction with serotonin receptors and was thus chosen for study in combination with ondansetron. 31 patients (30 male, 1 female; median age 28.5 years, range 18-49) receiving a 4-day course of a chemotherapy regimen containing cisplatin (100-120 mg/m2) for metastatic germ-cell tumours were entered in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial comparing oral ondansetron plus placebo with oral ondansetron plus dexamethasone as antiemetic prophylaxis. Ondansetron (8 mg every 8 h) was given to all patients for 8 days from the start of chemotherapy. Patients were given 8 mg of dexamethasone or placebo every 8 h starting 2 h before cisplatin (on day 4) and continuing for six doses (ie, for 2 days only). A second course of chemotherapy began 14 days after the start of the first, during which patients crossed over to the alternative antiemetic regimen. Results were available from 27 patients. In the 24-48 h after cisplatin 78% of patients taking ondansetron plus dexamethasone reported complete or major control of emesis compared with 30% of those taking ondansetron plus placebo (p = 0.001). Cross-over analysis showed a significant advantage for ondansetron plus dexamethasone in the control of nausea (p = 0.013) and emesis (p less than 0.001) over the 8-day study. 24 of 26 patients expressed a preference for the combination therapy (p less than 0.001). Ondansetron plus dexamethasone is effective antiemetic prophylaxis for high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy, has few side effects, and is active when given orally. 
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (leuprolide acetate) induced ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a woman undergoing intermittent hemodialysis. Moderate ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome occurred after LA was administered to control menorrhagia in an anephric woman who required hemodialysis. We postulate that women who require dialysis may be at special risk for the development of this syndrome. 
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in hepatolithiasis: A frequently overlooked disease. Five cases of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma were found among 101 cases of hepatolithiasis. There was no definite sign of cholangiocarcinoma in ERCP and image studies of four cases. The possibility of the existence of occult cholangiocarcinoma should be kept in mind, especially when unusual presentations, such as body weight loss, anemia, palpable abdominal mass, and intractable pain, appear. An intraoperative frozen-section examination should be considered under the following circumstances: (1) whitish nodular mass over liver, (2) mucinous substance within bile duct, and (3) enlarged, firm lymph nodes clustered along the hepatic arteries and/or celiac arteries. 
Effect of theophylline and dipyridamole on the respiratory response to isocapnic hypoxia in normal human subjects. 1. Twelve healthy young men took part in this investigation of the effect of oral theophylline and dipyridamole (two drugs known to affect the pharmacological effects of the purine nucleoside adenosine) on the respiratory response to isocapnic hypoxia. 2. The subjects underwent hypoxic rebreathing manoeuvres after 3-day pretreatments with each of the drugs for 12 h and were at least 2 h postprandial. For each in-Minute ventilation, the maximum rate of isometric inspiratory pressure development at the mouth and the ratio of inspiratory duration to total breath duration were analysed breath-by-breath and regressions of these variables upon the haemoglobin oxygen saturation were performed. 3. The slopes and intercepts of the lines describing the relationships of minute ventilation and the maximum rate of isometric inspiratory pressure development at the mouth with haemoglobin oxygen saturation were unaffected by the study drugs, and no differences in the pattern of breathing were observed. 4. We conclude that oral administration of these drugs does not result in alteration of the response of the respiratory system to progressive isocapnic hypoxia. 5. This suggests that either adenosine has no physiological role in hypoxic respiratory control as measured, or that it has opposing peripheral chemoreceptor and central respiratory centre effects which could not be distinguished by the techniques used. 
An autopsy study of the peritoneal cavity from patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Sixteen autopsies were performed on patients aged 56 +/- 15 (SD) years who were on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) for 834 +/- 766 (SD) days. Lactate-buffered dialysate and povidone-iodine antiseptic were used in all cases. Multiple peritoneal sections were taken to evaluate peritoneal membrane thickening, inflammation, neovascularization, fibrosis, and adhesions. Peritoneal thickening, inflammation, or adhesions were not related to sex, race, or etiology of renal failure. Time on dialysis was also not a direct determinant of peritoneal adhesions or neovascularization. Peritonitis episodes correlated with chronic peritoneal serosal changes. This study supports the hypothesis that peritoneal alterations in patients on CAPD are related to episodes of peritonitis. 
Pneumocephalus associated with benign brain tumor: report of two cases. Two cases of spontaneous pneumocephalus, which developed after ventriculoperitoneal shunt procedures for severe hydrocephalus caused by benign brain tumors, are reported. In both cases there was no previous history of cerebrospinal fluid leakage. Operation revealed that both patients had many small defects of the dura mater and the bone in the middle cranial fossa, which were plugged by necrotic brain tissue. These defects were remote from the sites of the original tumors but may have been produced by long-standing raised intracranial pressure, and they presumably allowed air to enter after intracranial pressure was reduced by shunting. Repair of the defects prevented further intracranial air retention. 
Cardiovascular and metabolic characteristics of hypertension. Hypertension is now seen as a broader condition than high blood pressure alone. Large-scale epidemiologic studies have established that high blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events, but clinical trials of antihypertensive therapy have shown an inconsistent reduction in major cardiovascular endpoints. Importantly, the incidence of coronary disease has been reduced to only a small extent, suggesting that factors beyond high blood pressure are important in the genesis of atherosclerotic disease in hypertensive patients. It is evident, for example, that patients with hypertension have an exaggerated vulnerability to the consequences of lipid abnormalities. Moreover, it has recently been established that hypertension is characterized by insulin resistance and altered glucose tolerance. As a result, high plasma concentrations of insulin produce proliferative effects on vascular smooth muscle and connective tissue, and they may adversely affect the lipid profile. The left ventricle is also involved in hypertension--independent of blood pressure. There is growing evidence that there are increases in the muscle mass of the left ventricle and changes in its diastolic filling characteristics at the very early stages of hypertension. The arterial circulation is similarly involved, for alterations in structure or function, reflected by diminished arterial compliance, can be demonstrated prior to the appearance of clinical hypertension. Treatment designed to protect hypertensive patients from cardiovascular events must not only be based on blood pressure, but must take into account all the components of the hypertension syndrome. 
Idioventricular rhythm: hypervagotonia associated with placebo. We report a case of hypervagotonia manifested by idioventricular rhythm in a healthy, athletic man who participated in a Phase I study of an investigational calcium-channel blocker. Upon breaking the study's double-blind study code, it was discovered that the subject had received placebo. We discuss this unusual finding and the implications of including athletic subjects in safety/tolerance studies. 
Characteristics of experimental Candida albicans infection of the central nervous system in rabbits. Different concentrations (10(7), 10(5), 10(3) cfu/ml) of Candida albicans were injected intracisternally in rabbits. The highest inoculum was fatal within 14 h in all animals. In recipients of 10(5) and 10(3) cfu/ml inocula, the mean +/- SD peak cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) concentrations were 1.6 +/- 2.42 and 0.3 +/- 0.59 ng/ml, respectively, at 6 h; the mean +/- SD CSF leukocyte and protein concentrations were 6291 +/- 6515 and 453 +/- 674 cells/mm3 (at 24 h) and 118 +/- 90 and 109 +/- 122 mg/dl (at 12 and 24 h), respectively. At 6-10 days after inoculation, a second peak of TNF alpha activity was accompanied by increased CSF inflammation. Mortality in the 10(5) and 10(3) cfu/ml inoculum groups was 56% and 22%, respectively. Fatal infection was associated with higher second CSF peak TNF alpha and leukocyte concentrations and a larger proportion of culture-positive CSF samples. Histopathology revealed hyphal invasion, vasculitis, abscesses, and acute and chronic inflammatory infiltration of meninges and brain parenchyma. This model can be useful for evaluation of the pathogenesis and therapy of central nervous system fungal infections. 
Relationship of HBsAg subtypes with HBeAg/anti-HBe status and chronic liver disease. Part II: Evaluation of epidemiological factors and suspected risk factors of liver dysfunction. In this study, we examined a possibility that epidemiological factors or suspected risk factors of liver dysfunction could account for the different HBeAg/anti-HBe status or the different prevalence of liver dysfunction between the adr and adw carriers. A total of 428 HBsAg carriers were surveyed of their age, sex, racial background, socioeconomic status, place of residence, birthplace, alcohol consumption, smoking habit, and history of blood transfusion as epidemiological factors or suspected risk factors of liver dysfunction. Adjustment for those variables using multivariate analyses did not substantially affect the association of the HBsAg subtypes with either prevalence of liver dysfunction or HBeAg/anti-HBe status. HBsAg subtypes seem to directly affect HBeAg/anti-HBe status and consequently influence development of chronic liver disease. 
Innovative approach in the diagnosis of gliomatosis cerebri using carbon-11-L-methionine positron emission tomography. A case of gliomatosis cerebri was studied with positron emission tomography (PET). Carbon-11-L-methionine (11C-Met) accumulated in the diffusely infiltrative tumorous area more widely and accurately than the lesion detected by conventional x-ray computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Autopsy findings three months after the time of the PET study showed good anatomical correspondence between the extent of densely aggregated tumor cells and the region with high uptake of 11C-Met. PET may offer an innovative approach in the delineation of gliomatosis cerebri, which has not been clearly recognized by CT or MR. 
Transesophageal echocardiography: detection of an acquired left ventricular-right atrial shunt. Communication between the left ventricle and right atrium has a reported prevalence of less than 1%. Acquired left ventricular--right atrial shunt is caused by chest trauma or valvular surgery. A case of acquired left ventricular--right atrial shunt after aortic valve surgery is reported. The detection was possible by use of echo-Doppler, color flow imaging, and transesophageal echocardiography. Combined use of these modalities and multiple transducer positions when transthoracic echocardiography is used are recommended to make the diagnosis. 
Neurohumoral and metabolic effects of short-term dietary NaCl restriction in men. Relationship to salt-sensitivity status Published observations suggest that not everyone benefits from severe dietary NaCl restriction, since blood pressure responses appear heterogeneous and adverse metabolic effects may occur. We studied the cardiovascular, neurohumoral, and metabolic effects of 7 day periods of 20 v 200 mEq/day NaCl diets in 27 men. Twelve subjects were salt sensitive (SS), defined as mean intraarterial pressure (MAP, mm Hg) during high NaCl greater than or equal to 5% above MAP on low NaCl. Eleven subjects were salt resistant (SR), defined as MAP during the low NaCl phase greater than or equal to MAP during the high NaCl phase. The SR subset had a tendency to greater neurohumoral activity, assessed by changes in mean values for plasma norepinephrine (NE, P = .12) and plasma renin activity (PRA, P less than .001) on the low v high NaCl diet. In SR subjects the low v high NaCl diet also raised mean values for creatinine (P = .03), uric acid (P = .001), and low density cholesterol (LDL-C, P = .03), but not fasting insulin (P = .15). In SS subjects, the low v high NaCl diet did not raise NE (P = .35), although the PRA was greater (P = .002). Among SS subjects, mean values for uric acid (P = .005) and insulin (P = .02) were greater during the low v high NaCl phase, while creatinine (P = .15) and LDL-C (P = .67) were not different. The data suggest that severe, short-term NaCl restriction can be undesirable, especially in SR subjects, since potentially adverse neurohumoral and metabolic changes are not counterbalanced by the benefits of a lower MAP. 
Bilateral nephrectomy before transplantation: indications, surgical approach, morbidity and mortality. Forty patients with end-stage renal failure, who had undergone simultaneous bilateral native nephrectomy before a subsequent renal transplant operation, were reviewed with particular reference to the indications and surgical approach for bilateral nephrectomy and to the complications of the procedure. The main indications for bilateral nephrectomy are hypertension resistant to medical therapy, persistent symptomatic renal infection, severe renal protein loss and occasionally polycystic kidneys or bilateral renal tumours. In this consecutive series of 40 patients both kidneys were removed because of chronic pyelonephritis with reflux (n = 28), glomerulonephritis with reflux (n = 9) and uncontrolled hypertension (n = 3). Surgical morbidity was less in patients who had bilateral nephrectomy performed through bilateral vertical lumbotomy incisions. There was no surgical mortality. 
Tentorial subdural hemorrhage in term newborns: ultrasonographic diagnosis and clinical correlates. Tentorial subdural hemorrhage with its supratentorial and infratentorial extensions were diagnosed by cranial ultrasonography and computed tomography in 9 term newborns. Vacuum extraction or forceps delivery was used in 6 patients. Abnormal neurologic manifestations developed after a period of normality in 8 patients. Increased intracranial pressure was the most common presentation. All patients had hemorrhage at the falcotentorial junction near the incisura; 5 also had hemorrhage around the tentorial leaflet. Posterior fossa retrocerebellar subdural hemorrhage developed in 5 patients and posterior interhemispheric subdural hemorrhage developed in 4. All 6 patients who received conservative treatment had normal neurodevelopmental outcomes. Of the other 3 patients upon whom suboccipital craniotomies were performed, only 1 had a normal outcome. Although it localized the tentorial subdural hemorrhage either at the incisura area or at the tentorial leaflet, ultrasonography failed to identify all patients with retrocerebellar or posterior interhemispheric subdural hemorrhage. Parturitional tentorial subdural hemorrhage may not be uncommon. Ultrasonography and computed tomography are complementary in the diagnosis. Surgical decompression of the posterior fossa subdural hematoma is necessary only in the presence of acute hydrocephalus or signs of brainstem compression. 
Cardiac sources of embolism and cerebral infarction--clinical consequences and vascular concomitants: the Lausanne Stroke Registry. We studied clinical characteristics and coexisting causes of stroke in 305 patients admitted to a population-based primary care center with an initial ischemic stroke and a potential cardiac source of embolism (PCSE). Using systematic standardized cardiac, arterial, and cerebral investigations and the logistics of the prospective Lausanne Stroke Registry, we found that nonprogressive onset, hemianopia without hemiparesis or hemisensory disturbances, Wernicke's aphasia, ideomotor apraxia, involvement of specific territories (posterior division of middle cerebral artery, anterior cerebral artery, cerebellum, multiple territories), and a hemorrhagic component were associated with the presence of a PCSE, as compared with 1,006 initial ischemic stroke patients without PCSE. Although age and sex did not differ, the frequency of hypertension, diabetes, cigarette smoking, elevated blood cholesterol, and deep hemispheric or brainstem infarcts was higher in the patients without a PCSE. Nearly one-fourth of the patients with a PCSE had a coexisting potential arterial cause of stroke (large artery greater than or equal to 50% stenosis or small-vessel disease). In the majority of patients with a PCSE (76.7%), cardioembolism was the most likely cause of stroke, although a direct source of embolism was uncommon (4.3%) and intracranial embolic occlusions were present in less than one-half of the patients who were angiographed. 
Effect of daily etidronate on the osteolysis of multiple myeloma. Progressive bone disease in multiple myeloma frequently leads to osteolysis, bone resorption, pathologic fractures, vertebral compression, and hypercalcemia. We conducted a double-blind study in 173 newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients of etidronate disodium (EHDP), a diphosphonate compound that reduces bone resorption by inhibiting osteoclastic activity. The patients were randomly assigned to receive oral EHDP 5 mg/kg/d or placebo until death or discontinuation due to intolerance or refusal. The extent of vertebral deformity was measured by a vertebral index as well as height. The frequency of pathologic fractures, hypercalcemia, and bone pain was regularly assessed, as well as size and number of osteolytic lesions. All patients received melphalan and prednisone daily for 4 days every 4 weeks as the primary chemotherapy for their disease. Although the repeated measures analysis showed a significant height loss, there was no difference between treatment arms (P = .98). There was no significant difference in bone pain, episodes of hypercalcemia, or development of pathologic fractures. Patients on EHDP showed less deterioration in their vertebral index, but this difference only approached statistical significance (P = .07). We conclude that EHDP therapy used in this dosage schedule does not have a clinically significant impact in multiple myeloma. 
Lung asbestos fiber content and mesothelioma cell type, site, and survival. All ascertainable cases of malignant mesothelioma in Australia were notified to a national surveillance program in the period January 1, 1980 to December 31, 1985. There were 854 cases obtained and 823 confirmed on clinical (77) or histologic (746) ground. Tumor site was known in 759 cases (685 pleural and 74 peritoneal). Lung fiber content analyses by light microscopy and analytic transmission electron microscopy with energy-dispersive x-ray analysis were done on 226 cases in which postmortem material was available, using the method of Rogers. Cell type was determined by a five-member expert panel of pathologists appointed by the Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. There was a statistically significant trend between lung fiber content (fibers/g dry lung) and cell type from epithelial (low fiber content) through mixed to sarcomatous (high fiber content). This trend was most apparent for total uncoated fibers (chi-square = 6.8, df = 1, P less than 0.01) and crocidolite (chi-square = 6.7, df = 1, P less than 0.01). Lung fiber content also was associated with tumor site; higher lung fiber content being associated with peritoneal tumors. This relationship was significant for all fiber content measures except chrysotile and was independent of the fiber content-cell type relationship (log-linear analysis). Survival from time of provisional diagnosis was significantly longer for epithelial (mean, 13 months; standard deviation [SD], 12.8) and mixed (mean, 10.2 months; SD, 8.7) types than sarcomatous cell types (mean, 5.8 months; SD, 6.5; P less than 0.0001, by analysis of variance on log10 survival time). Survival time was significantly greater for pleural tumors (mean, 11.4 months; SD, 13.4) than peritoneal tumors (mean, 8.6 months; SD, 12.5) (P less than 0.005, by Student's t test on log10 survival time). 
Sclerotherapy of bleeding esophageal varices using a thrombogenic cocktail. The short- and long-term efficacy of a thrombogenic sclerosant (1% tetradecyl sulfate, thrombin, and cefazolin) was studied in 101 patients. The majority of patients had alcoholic cirrhosis with Child's C classification (84/101). Bleeding was controlled in 94 per cent of patients with the first sclerotherapy. In-hospital and early (within 6 weeks) mortality were 14 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively. There was a strong correlation with hospital mortality and the severity of hepatic disease. Long-term follow-up in 70 patients (mean of 16 months) showed that survival correlated with compliance to follow-up sclerotherapy and abstention from further alcohol intake. Mortality in patients compliant with follow-up was 5 per cent (1/19), as compared with 24 per cent (12/51) in patients who were not compliant with follow-up sclerotherapy. The mortality in alcoholic cirrhotic patients who abstained from further alcoholic intake was 6 per cent (1/17), as compared with 23 per cent (10/44) in those who continued to abuse alcohol. No systemic thrombotic or allergic events related to the use of bovine thrombin were noted during a total of 349 sclerotherapy sessions. 
Regression of coronary atherosclerosis: an achievable goal? Review of results from recent clinical trials. During the past decade, large, placebo-controlled, randomized trials have demonstrated that the incidence of coronary events can be reduced by treating hyperlipidemia. In studies with angiographic end points, marked lowering of total and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol with comparable increases in high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol retards the progression of coronary atherosclerosis and favors regression. In the Cholesterol-Lowering Atherosclerosis Study (CLAS), such therapy also prevented the appearance and worsening of atherosclerotic lesions in coronary bypass grafts. In the recently reported Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS), in which coronary lesions were measured quantitatively, treatment induced clear regression of coronary atherosclerosis and also markedly decreased coronary events. The beneficial effect on coronary lesions in these studies appears to be proportional to the degree of lipid lowering. In addition, new evidence suggests that aspirin and calcium antagonists might prevent the development of early coronary lesions. The identification and aggressive treatment of patients with high serum cholesterol levels can have a major impact on the development and evolution of coronary atherosclerosis. 
Simplified limbal incision for extraocular rectus muscle surgery. We describe a limbal incision for extraocular muscle surgery which involves only one incision to the conjunctival-Tenon's layer instead of the three separate incisions required in the standard limbal approach. Based on the 316 extraocular muscle operations in which we have used this one-snip procedure, we conclude that it is simpler and faster than the standard limbal incision, and that it provides good surgical exposure and probably less tissue damage. 
Primary invasive vaginal carcinoma. A review of primary vaginal carcinoma treated at the Medical University of South Carolina from January 1970 through December 1989 included 76 squamous carcinomas, 12 adenocarcinomas, and 3 undifferentiated carcinomas. Staging was done according to the system of the International Federal of Gynecology and Obstetrics as modified by Perez et al. Stages I, II, III, and IV included 25, 39, 15, and 12 patients, respectively. Corrected 5-year survival rates were 73% for stage I, 39% for stage II, 38% for stage III, and 25% for stage IV. Sixteen percent of patients had received prior pelvic radiation. Invasive cervical cancer preceded vaginal cancer in 21% of patients. Detection of cancer was accomplished by routine cytologic testing in 17% of patients, palpation of an asymptomatic mass in 10% of patients, or palpation of a symptomatic mass in 72% of patients. Eighty-seven percent of patients were treated with radiation therapy. Survival curves of patients grouped by stage and other potential prognostic factors were compared. Lower stage (p less than 0.01), younger age (p less than 0.02), and no symptoms at detection (p less than 0.01) were statistically significant favorable prognostic factors. Histologic type, extent of vaginal involvement, vaginal location, prior radiation therapy, prior cervical cancer, and prior hysterectomy are factors that did not significantly affect survival. 
Solitary minute hepatocellular carcinoma. A study of 14 patients. Fourteen patients with clinical Stage I hepatocellular carcinoma (T1N0M0) were studied. All patients were asymptomatic, and their conditions were detected by alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) serosurvey and/or ultrasonography (US) either in the natural population in the early years of the study or in the high-risk population in the later years of the study. Cirrhosis was present in all patients. Radical resection was performed in all patients. There were no operative deaths or hospital deaths in this series. The 5-year survival rate after resection was 100%. There were seven long-term survivors in this series (14.2 years (alive), 11.3 years (alive), 8.8 years (alive), 8.8 years, 7.9 years, 7.6 years (alive), and 7.2 years after resection). The authors discuss aspects concerning early diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). 
By how much does dietary salt reduction lower blood pressure? III--Analysis of data from trials of salt reduction [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Apr 20;302(6782):939] OBJECTIVE--To determine whether the reduction in blood pressure achieved in trials of dietary salt reduction is quantitatively consistent with estimates derived from blood pressure and sodium intake in different populations, and, if so, to estimate the impact of reducing dietary salt on mortality from stroke and ischaemic heart disease. DESIGN--Analysis of the results of 68 crossover trials and 10 randomised controlled trials of dietary salt reduction. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Comparison of observed reductions in systolic blood pressure for each trial with predicted values calculated from between population analysis. RESULTS--In the 45 trials in which salt reduction lasted four weeks or less the observed reductions in blood pressure were less than those predicted, with the difference between observed and predicted reductions being greatest in the trials of shortest duration. In the 33 trials lasting five weeks or longer the predicted reductions in individual trials closely matched a wide range of observed reductions. This applied for all age groups and for people with both high and normal levels of blood pressure. In people aged 50-59 years a reduction in daily sodium intake of 50 mmol (about 3 g of salt), attainable by moderate dietary salt reduction would, after a few weeks, lower systolic blood pressure by an average of 5 mm Hg, and by 7 mm Hg in those with high blood pressure (170 mm Hg); diastolic blood pressure would be lowered by about half as much. It is estimated that such a reduction in salt intake by a whole Western population would reduce the incidence of stroke by 22% and of ischaemic heart disease by 16% [corrected]. CONCLUSIONS--The results from the trials support the estimates from the observational data in the accompanying two papers. The effect of universal moderate dietary salt reduction on mortality from stroke and ischaemic heart disease would be substantial--larger, indeed, than could be achieved by fully implementing recommended policy for treating high blood pressure with drugs. However, reduction also in the amount of salt added to processed foods would lower blood pressure by at least twice as much and prevent some 75,000 [corrected] deaths a year in Britain as well as much disability. 
Technetium-99m-d,1-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) uptake and glutathione content in brain tumors Technetium-d, HMPAO SPECT was performed in 70 patients suffering from intracerebral tumors of various histologic types (glioma n = 30, meningioma n = 19, metastases n = 10, angioma n = 3, neuroma n = 2, lymphoma n = 2, neurocytoma n = 1, epidermoid n = 1, gliosis n = 1, cholesteatoma n = 1). Tumor classification was histologically verified in all subjects except in two cases with inoperable angiomas. SPECT was performed under resting state conditions with a dual-head rotating camera (SIEMENS ZLC 37) following intravenous injection of 18-25 mCi 99mTc-d, 1-HMPAO. Regional tracer deposit was expressed in terms of a cerebellar index (CBI). Significantly higher regional HMPAO uptake was found in meningiomas when compared with gliomas of different malignancy (ANOVA p less than 0.05). Within gliomas, regional uptake increased with malignancy (n.s.). In 23 patients, a total of 32 tumor specimens were obtained for histochemical analysis of glutathione (GSH) content using high-pressure liquid chromatography. A significant correlation (least square method, p less than 0.001) between CBIs and GSH values was found, supporting the hypothesis that GSH is the predominant factor for the conversion of the lipophilic complex to hydrophilic derivates. 
Exercise but not methacholine differentiates asthma from chronic lung disease in children. Bronchial provocation challenges with exercise and methacholine were performed on the same day or within a short interval in 52 children with asthma, 22 with other types of chronic lung disease (including cystic fibrosis), and 19 control subjects with no evidence of chronic lung disease. There were no significant differences in the baseline lung function before the two types of challenge in the individual groups and differences between the patients with asthma and with chronic lung disease were minor. When the mean -2 SD of the methacholine response of the control group was taken as the lower limit of normal, 49/52 (94%) patients with asthma and 18/22 (82%) with chronic lung disease responded abnormally. In contrast, with the mean +2 SD of the exercise response of the control group as the upper limit of normal, 41/52 (79%) asthmatic patients responded but none of those with chronic lung disease. Thus the response to the two types of challenge helps to distinguish asthma from other types of chronic lung disease in children. 
The value of the tumor marker CA 15-3 in diagnosing and monitoring breast cancer. A comparative study with carcinoembryonic antigen. To estimate the utility of the tumor-associated antigen CA 15-3 in the diagnosis of patients with breast cancer, this tumor marker was measured preoperatively in 1342 patients. This group included 509 patients with malignant disease (134 breast cancer patients and 375 patients with other malignancies not involving the breast) and 833 patients with benign surgical diseases (95 patients with fibroadenoma of the breast and 738 patients with other benign diseases). The results were compared with those obtained for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in the diagnosis of breast cancer. The CA 15-3 level was above normal (25 U/ml) in 31% of the patients with breast cancer, in 22% of patients with other malignancies, and in 9% of patients with benign diseases. The CEA level was elevated in 26% of patients with breast cancer (more than 3 ng/ml). There was a good correlation of CA 15-3 levels with the tumor stage of breast cancer. Both CA 15-3 and CEA also were determined in 671 patients who had received initial curative surgery of breast cancer and who regularly attended our follow-up clinic. The CA 15-3 was found to be more sensitive than CEA in detecting recurrences of breast cancer. In the postcare period, carcinoma recurred in 205 patients. Of these, 73% had CA 15-3 concentrations above 25 U/ml; only 50% had CEA values above 3 ng/ml (P less than 0.0001). Although neither CA 15-3 nor CEA were sensitive enough for the screening and diagnosis of early breast cancer, CA 15-3 was significantly better than CEA in the detection of breast cancer metastases. 
Human papillomavirus type 16 nucleoprotein E7 is a tumor rejection antigen. It has been speculated that immunological mechanisms play an important role in the control of carcinomas associated with human papillomavirus (HPV), such as cervical cancers. We have now demonstrated that immunization of C3H/HeN mice by syngeneic nontumorigenic fibroblast-like cells that contain the transfected HPV-16 E7 gene conferred protection against transplanted cells from a HPV-16 E7-positive syngeneic tumor. This protection was HPV-16 E7-specific and was mediated by CD8+ lymphocytes, which presumably were cytotoxic T lymphocytes. These results indicate that tumor cells containing HPV-16 E7, either as a result of transfection, as in our studies, or naturally, as occurs in many human carcinomas, can induce a tumor-specific rejection response and serve as targets for such a response. The system described here provides an animal model to further study immune responses to HPV-associated malignancies and to test the efficacy of anti-HPV vaccines toward the therapy and prevention of such tumors. 
Attenuation of IL-2-induced multisystem organ edema by phalloidin and antamanide. Interleukin 2 (IL-2) is a potent cytokine with diverse effects, including the ability to stimulate lymphocyte differentiation into cells capable of lysing tumor. Its therapeutic efficacy is limited because of side effects such as breakdown of the microvascular barrier and edema. Control of the microvascular barrier is in part regulated by endothelial cell cytoskeletal contractile proteins. This study tests whether the cyclopeptides that maintain actin filament organization and distribution and reduce macromolecular flux across the endothelial cell junction in vitro would similarly maintain barrier tightness and prevent early edema produced by IL-2 in vivo. Anesthetized rats were treated at 30-min periods with intravenous saline (0.5 ml, n = 41), phalloidin (20 micrograms in 0.5 ml, n = 21), or antamanide, (20 micrograms in 0.5 ml, n = 21), starting 30 min before the 1-h infusion of 10(6) U of recombinant human IL-2 or saline. Six hours after the start of IL-2, there was edema in the saline/IL-2 group, as measured by increased wet-to-dry ratios (W/D) in the lungs, heart, and kidney. With saline/IL-2, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid contained an elevated protein concentration and higher plasma thromboxane levels compared with controls. The number of neutrophils sequestered in the lungs was more than twice that of saline controls. Phalloidin significantly attenuated edema in lung and reduced BAL protein leak. Antamanide treatment was as effective in limiting lung and heart edema, but, in contrast to phalloidin, antamanide prevented kidney edema and did not lead to an alteration in the liver W/D. Antamanide also prevented BAL fluid protein leak. 
Amenorrhoea in women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease. Amenorrhoea is common in women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease, but little is known about its causes or consequences. We investigated 12 young women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease and amenorrhoea and compared them with 11 healthy age matched controls studied in the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. None of the patients had raised serum concentrations of follicle stimulating hormone suggesting primary gonadal failure, but the variance in serum concentrations of testosterone, oestradiol, prolactin, and luteinising hormone were significantly greater in chronic liver disease patients than control subjects (p less than 0.01). Seven of the 12 chronic liver disease patients had low serum luteinising hormone concentrations, and compared with controls these patients also had significantly reduced median values of oestradiol (64 pmol/l), testosterone (1.1 nmol/l), and follicle stimulating hormone, and were significantly underweight as assessed by skinfold thickness measurements (all comparisons p less than 0.025). In the group with chronic liver disease skinfold thickness was significantly correlated with serum luteinising hormone (p less than 0.02). The five patients with normal serum luteinising hormone had higher median values of both oestradiol (237 pmol/l) and testosterone (3.0 nmol/l) than the control subjects (oestradiol: 113 pmol/l, testosterone: 1.9 nmol/l) but were not more obese or hirsute. Amenorrhoea was unrelated to the duration or severity of liver disease. The metacarpal cortical bone area (an index of bone density) was inversely related to the duration of amenorrhoea (p less than 0.02). We conclude that amenorrhoea in women with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease arises from hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction and can occur at any stage. 
Postpericardiotomy and postmyocardial infarction syndrome presenting as noncardiac pulmonary edema. Three cases are reported that describe acute pulmonary edema as an early manifestation of a postpericardiotomy or postmyocardial infarction syndrome. Each of these cases occurred in the presence of good left ventricular function. The cases suggest this syndrome occurs in immunologically primed patients who have had prior cardiac injury resulting in readily available heart antibody. The first report followed an acute myocardial infarction that required a temporary pacemaker, and the two other cases occurred following coronary artery bypass surgery. Two of the patients had a history of distant myocardial or pericardial injury, and the third patient had an acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction two to three weeks before cardiac surgery. All three patients with pulmonary edema responded dramatically to corticosteroids, having been resistant to diuretic and pre-load and afterload reduction therapy, suggesting an autoimmune capillary injury process. Early recognition of such a syndrome is important since all three patients were successfully treated, and might otherwise have been confused with other causes of pulmonary edema. 
Cost-effectiveness of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy versus cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy vs. cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones, a model was constructed that projects charges and survival for both treatments. For a 45-year-old woman with one small stone, treatment with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy rather than cholecystectomy is projected to result in an average gain of only 3 days of life and an average increase in direct medical charges of $1729 over 5 years of follow-up. The resulting marginal cost-effectiveness of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy vs. cholecystectomy is $216,000 of extra charges per year of life gained with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is projected to be much more cost-effective for elderly than for young patients (10-20-fold difference), but considerably less cost-effective for multiple stones than a single stone (2-4-fold difference), and less cost-effective for women than men (twofold difference). Adjusting for effects of morbidity on quality of life, extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is projected to have slightly better quality-adjusted survival than cholecystectomy for the small subset of patients with one stone (by 8 to 43 days at 5 years) but not for young patients with multiple stones. It is concluded that decisions about appropriate use of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy should consider the effects of patient characteristics on clinical and economic outcomes. 
Solitary extramedullary plasmacytoma of the maxillary antrum and orbit presenting as acute bacterial orbital cellulitis. Orbital involvement by plasma cell tumours is rare. Orbital tumours do not generally present as an acute orbital inflammatory disease in adults, though tumours such as rhabdomyosarcoma may cause clinical signs similar to an acute orbital cellulitis in children. We describe a patient with bacterial orbital cellulitis and sinusitis who was found to have an extra-medullary plasmacytoma of the maxillary antrum and orbit and coexisting testicular seminoma. 
Modified Rambo meatoplasty in translabyrinthine tumor removal. Spinal fluid otorrhea and otorhinorrhea are morbid complications that occur in up to 18% of patients after removal of translabyrinthine tumor. Both of these problems can be significantly reduced if, during the initial surgery, the posterior canal wall is taken down and the tympanic membrane and external auditory canal skin are removed for better exposure of the eustachian tube orifice. The external auditory meatus can then be sealed by a previously described modification of the Rambo procedure. This additional procedure adds about 20 minutes to the surgery and presents a small risk of retained squamous epithelium. Fifty consecutive patients were divided into two equal groups and studied retrospectively. In group I, the patients underwent a modified Rambo meatoplasty at the time of the removal of their translabyrinthine tumor, whereas patients in group II had the tympanic orifice of their eustachian tube obstructed through the facial recess. Review of the postoperative course of these fifty patients indicated that the addition of the modified Rambo meatoplasty was justified by the overall reduction in morbidity and expense it provided. 
Rapid resolution of ST elevation and prediction of clinical outcome in patients undergoing thrombolysis with alteplase (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator): results of the Israeli Study of Early Intervention in Myocardial Infarction. Alteplase (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA)) was infused within four hours of onset of symptoms in 286 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Delayed coronary angiography was performed 72 hours after admission with coronary angioplasty if indicated. Electrocardiographic monitoring was continuous during the first hour of treatment. The sum of the ST segment elevations (sigma ST) was calculated on electrocardiograms recorded at entry and an hour later. ST elevations resolved rapidly within one hour of treatment in 189 patients and persisted in 97 patients. Rapid resolution of ST elevation correlated with angiographic coronary patency as determined by coronary angiography 72 hours after admission. The patients with rapid resolution of sigma ST had significantly smaller infarcts and a better clinical outcome than the patients with persistent ST elevation. sigma ST values at entry and one hour after treatment had no additional independent predictive value. Rapid resolution of ST elevations in patients undergoing thrombolysis with alteplase was associated with a significantly smaller release of creatine kinase, better preservation of left ventricular function, lower morbidity, and less short and long term mortality. Rapid resolution of sigma ST elevation is an efficient indicator of clinical outcome in groups of patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing thrombolysis with alteplase. 
Cirrhosis of the liver. A regenerative process. The ancient story of Prometheus, chained to a rock for defying Zeus by stealing fire from Mount Olympus and subjected to daily tearing at his liver by an eagle, attests to the early recognition of the extraordinary regenerative capacity of the human liver. This process had remained an intriguing mystery over the millennia. In the last 20 years, following the pioneering work of Bucher (1) and Moolten et al (2), there has been an explosion of research that has clarified some of the mechanisms underlying the process of hepatic regeneration. Regeneration implies proliferation and regeneration. After the fetal and postnatal growth of the liver is completed, hepatocytes no longer proliferate actively, but they can proliferate in response to cell death or loss (3). Hepatocyte growth responses are of particular research interest because they occur in vivo and involve cells that are normally quiescent. Hepatic regeneration constitutes a highly regulated process that is best shown by the arrest of liver growth following a partial hepatectomy precisely at the moment the hepatic mass reaches the mass of the original intact liver (3). This suggests that hepatic regeneration after a partial hepatectomy is a strictly regulated nonautonomous growth process that is controlled by the same factors that are responsible for the determination and maintenance of hepatic mass in a normal individual. In response to a partial hepatectomy, hepatocytes enter the cell cycle and progress to DNA synthesis and replication but only in numbers sufficient to restore the hepatic mass. The regeneration response is both synchronized and universal in that it affects all intrahepatic cell lines, including nonparenchymal cells. 
Respective timing of maximal color Doppler jet areas and of peak velocity of jets in left-sided valvular lesions: clinical implications. Time intervals between the R wave of the electrocardiogram and maximal dimension of jet areas of color Doppler and the R wave of the electrocardiogram and peak velocity of valvular jets of continuous-wave Doppler were compared by use of paired and correlative studies for a group of 55 patients with a total of 71 left-sided lesions. Mean values of both time intervals, mean difference, and its standard error were equal to zero for stenoses. Time intervals of 71% for mitral stenosis and 52% for aortic stenosis did not differ by more than 0.01 second; correlation coefficients were 0.96 for mitral stenosis and 0.85 for aortic stenosis. For regurgitations, differences in mean values and a mean difference with a standard error were found but remained unsignificant. However, the percentage of differences in time intervals below or equal to 0.01 second decreased to 35 for aortic regurgitation and 13 for mitral regurgitation, which showed the widest 95% range of differences. Correlation coefficients were 0.84 for the aortic regurgitation and 0.33 for mitral regurgitation. Thus the close relationship of time intervals suggests that standardized timing of area measurements at peak velocity is feasible for stenoses and remains under consideration for aortic regurgitation. Timing of measurements should remain empiric for mitral regurgitation. 
Shortcomings of current antihypertensive therapy. Effective antihypertensive agents have been available for the last four decades. Their use in the treatment of hypertension has resulted in a marked decline in hypertension-induced morbidity and mortality. There are, however, some notable shortcomings with the currently available antihypertensive therapies, including disappointing effects against coronary artery disease and the fact that, even with treatment, hypertensive patients still have considerably higher cardiovascular morbidity and mortality than matched normotensives. This may be due to insufficient lowering of the elevated arterial pressure in hypertensive patients. In theory, overtreatment may also constitute a risk, considering the J-curve phenomenon. Other factors which may play a role are the different pathophysiological mechanisms in stroke and myocardial infarction, the potentially negative metabolic effects induced by some antihypertensive drugs, the importance of cardiovascular hypertrophy (in particular, left ventricular hypertrophy), and the inability of some antihypertensive agents to reverse such changes. To rectify some of these shortcomings, a more effective antihypertensive therapy is required. Ideally, an antihypertensive agent should provide effective lowering of blood pressure, in most patients to normotensive levels, while being devoid of potentially negative metabolic effects. It should also induce reversal of the changes of cardiovascular hypertrophy and, if possible, limit tissue damage if and when a vascular complication occurs. 
Differential detection of plasma hydroperoxides in sepsis. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether plasma lipid hydroperoxides may be a useful marker for sepsis. DESIGN: Exploratory, open-label study. SETTING: Critical care unit at a university medical center. PATIENTS: Twelve patients with sepsis syndrome requiring hemodynamic monitoring with pulmonary artery catheters. Seven patients were diagnosed with pulmonary infections and five patients had intra-abdominal infections. INTERVENTIONS: Fatty acid hydroperoxide was measured in the fresh arterial plasma (radial artery) and mixed venous plasma (pulmonary artery) from each patient. Hydroperoxide was determined using a sensitive assay based on activating the cyclooxygenase reaction of prostaglandin H synthase. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The mean difference between the amount of fatty acid hydroperoxide measured in the plasma draining involved regions (arterial plasma for pulmonary sepsis, mixed venous plasma for intra-abdominal sepsis) compared with the paired, uninvolved regions was 0.45 +/- 0.14 microM (mean +/- SEM; p less than .005). CONCLUSIONS: Increased lipid hydroperoxides in blood-draining septic foci are markers of oxyradical release associated with severe infection, although they are not specific for infectious conditions, being released also from nonseptic regions of surgical trauma. Assays for hydroperoxides may be useful when relatively free of other tissue trauma. 
Early angioplasty in patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by hypotension. Emergency percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed in 62 patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by hypotension. All patients were treated within 12 hours of the onset of chest pain. Angioplasty was completely successful (residual lesion less than or equal to 50%) in 48 patients, partially successful (patent vessel greater than 50% residual lesion) in four patients, and unsuccessful in 10 patients. Patients in whom angioplasty was successful had a hospital mortality rate of 19%; those in whom angioplasty was unsuccessful or only partially successful had hospital mortality rates of 60% and 50%, respectively, (p = 0.012). Patients with occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending vessel had the highest failure rate (42%) and the highest mortality rate (67%). Other univariate predictors of hospital mortality were older age and elevated end-diastolic pressure. Successful emergency angioplasty improves mortality in patients with acute infarction complicated by hypotension. 
HLA-DQA1 and -DQB1 alleles associated with genetic susceptibility to IDDM in a black population. Transracial analysis provides a method of distinguishing primary associations between insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and HLA class II alleles from those secondary to linkage disequilibrium. Blacks show DR-DQ relationships that are different from other races and are a useful group in which to investigate HLA-D region associations with IDDM. In this study, the frequencies of HLA-DQA1 and -DQB1 alleles in Afro-Caribbean IDDM and control subjects were compared. Alleles were identified with sequence-specific oligonucleotide probing. The DQA1 allele A3 was positively associated with IDDM (relative risk [RR] = 25.3, corrected P [Pc] less than 7.0 x 10(-6). The DQB1 alleles DQw2 and DQw8 were also positively associated (RR = 4.7, Pc less than 6.5 x 10(-3) and RR = 12.3, Pc = 3.4 x 10(-3), respectively). The A1.2 and DQw6 alleles were negatively associated (RR = 0.16, Pc less than 3.5 x 10(-3) and RR = 0.15, Pc = 2.4 x 10(-2), respectively). These findings were compared to data from other races. The positive associations with A3 and DQw2 are consistent with all racial groups investigated. The negative association with DQw6 is present in all racial groups in which it is a common allele. These findings suggest that DQ alleles, and hence DQ molecules, may directly affect predisposition to IDDM. 
Automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: is early implantation cost-effective? The evaluation of survivors of sudden cardiac death with serial electrophysiologic studies involves a lengthy and expensive hospitalization, especially when an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is ultimately necessary. The cost efficacy of this conventional approach was therefore compared with direct implantation of a cardioverter-defibrillator after the first electrophysiologic study. Thirty-two survivors of sudden death who had inducible ventricular tachycardia during their initial electrophysiologic study underwent serial drug trials. At discharge 12 (37%) were taking an antiarrhythmic drug found to prevent induction of ventricular tachycardia and 20 underwent cardioverter-defibrillator implantation after serial drug trials proved ineffective. The average length of hospitalization for this group that had undergone serial drug testing was 20.2 +/- 9.3 days at an average cost of $48,900 +/- $31,600. Seven survivors of sudden death had no inducible ventricular tachycardia during their initial electrophysiologic study and underwent direct cardioverter-defibrillator implantation. Their average length of hospitalization was 12.6 +/- 6.2 days at an average cost of $40,400 +/- $8,300. It is concluded that automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation as an early intervention is not more costly and indeed may be cost-effective compared with therapy guided by serial electrophysiologic testing. As antitachycardia devices become more versatile, long lived and easier to implant, earlier implantation is likely to compare even more favorably with drug therapy. 
Use of parenteral medium-chain triglyceride emulsion for maintaining seizure control in a 5-year-old girl with intractable diarrhea. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) are an important component of an enteral ketogenic diet for seizure control. Previously, it was difficult to maintain ketosis when parenteral (iv) nutrition therapy was necessary. The use of iv MCT in a 5-year-old girl with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome who had diarrhea and dehydration is reported. Conventional 20% iv fat emulsion (long-chain triglycerides, LCT) and dextrose free hyperalimentation (HAL) in a 4:1 ketogenic ratio did not maintain adequate ketosis during bowel rest. Compassionate use of iv MCT (Clintec Nutrition) infused as a 70:30 MCT/LCT ratio plus HAL maintained moderate ketosis. Seizures were well controlled during the iv MCT regimen, which allowed normal daily functioning. Complications included abnormal liver function tests and severe iron deficiency anemia of unknown etiology. Serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels increased to 1717 mg/dl and 614 mg/dl, respectively, but decreased with a reduction of lipid infusion and use of an antihyperlipemic drug. Nutritional status was maintained. In this case, iv MCT proved to be a relatively safe and effective short-term method of continuing parenteral nutrition while maintaining ketosis for seizure control. 
Long-term effects of radiotherapy and bromocriptine treatment in patients with previous surgery for macroprolactinomas. The long-term effect of radiotherapy and bromocriptine treatment was retrospectively evaluated in 25 patients who had previously undergone transsphenoidal surgery for treatment of macroprolactinomas. Surgery had reduced the median serum prolactin (PRL) value from 613 micrograms/l, a reduction of 53%. Postoperative bromocriptine was administered to 21 of the 25 patients. In 14 of these patients, serum PRL values became normal or almost normal with medication. There were no radiological or ophthalmological signs of progressive tumor growth during bromocriptine treatment. Fourteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy. After withdrawal of bromocriptine in 13 of these patients an average of 7 years after radiotherapy, the median serum PRL value had further decreased by 95%. The PRL reduction was similar for all doses applied, 38 to 52 Gy. After withdrawal of bromocriptine in 8 patients not receiving radiotherapy an average of 7 years after operation, the median serum PRL level had further decreased by 75%. At follow-up, 18 additional instances of pituitary insufficiency had developed in the group receiving radiotherapy, compared with 8 cases of insufficiency in the group not receiving radiotherapy. Thus, because bromocriptine has a long-standing effect on prolactin secretion, and radiotherapy is associated with a notably high incidence of pituitary insufficiency, we propose that photon irradiation should be considered mainly for patients who are not candidates for surgical or medical treatment. 
Multiple, giant fibroadenoma. Multiple, giant fibroadenomas are histologic and clinical variants of "juvenile" or "giant" fibroadenomas. These tumors are rare and occur mainly in adolescent and young adult black females. The individual lesions are well encapsulated with a histologic pattern primarily of the "juvenile" type, although cases of the "adult" type have been reported. A high incidence of recurrence is noted upon local excision, although this may decrease as the patient becomes older. Management options include local excision with reconstruction, reduction mammoplasty, and simple mastectomy with reconstruction. A case is described of this condition with review of the literature. 
Developmental anterobasal temporal encephalocele and temporal lobe epilepsy. The authors describe the association between an antero-basal temporal lobe encephalocele and medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy in three patients treated successfully by surgery. Two men and one woman, aged 26 to 37 years (mean 31 years), had onset of complex automatism and generalized seizures in their second and fourth decades (mean age 22.7 years). They had been epileptic for 6 to 14 years (mean 8.3 years) before surgery. Preoperative electroencephalograms localized ictal epileptic activity to the left mesial temporal lobe in all cases, and neuropsychological testing revealed dominant temporal lobe dysfunction. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated an anteromedial basal temporal encephalocele extending into the pterygopalatine fossa through a bone defect at the base of the greater sphenoid wing in the region of the foramen rotundum and pterygoid process, a discrete center of embryonal chondrification. At surgery, the encephaloceles were found in front of the uncus, and an area of gliosis extended from the encephalocele to the amygdalohippocampal region. All patients have been seizure-free following anterior temporal resection and amygdalohippocampectomy including the encephalocele. These three cases delineate a condition of disordered embryogenesis wherein a developmental anterobasal temporal encephalocele acts as the substrate for temporal lobe epilepsy. This lesion may be diagnosed preoperatively with MR imaging and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of late-onset temporal lobe epilepsy. 
Role of interferons in the therapy of melanoma. A range of potent immunoregulatory molecules termed cytokines has become available for the therapy of human melanoma. Among the cytokines, the interferons (IFN) have been examined in great depth for the therapy of melanoma. IFN are able to modulate host effector cell function, including the tumor cytolytic function of lymphocytes and monocytes. IFN also have the capacity to regulate the distribution of circulating immunoregulatory (T) lymphocytes and the expression of tumor cell surface antigens, as well as class I and II products of the major histocompatibility locus. These activities of the IFN have led to their early application for treatment of human melanoma. The empirical evidence that IFN alpha exerts clinically significant anti-tumor effects against melanoma is reviewed, and evolving status of adjuvant trials of IFN alpha and gamma is noted. New indirect host-mediated anti-tumor activities that may potentially be manifest by IFN have yet to be fully harnessed. The opportunity to obtain meaningful anti-tumor activity in advanced disease or adjuvant settings, at dose ranges below those which are toxic (conventional maximal tolerable), are at hand. The U.S. cooperative groups [Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG), Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB), and South West Oncology Group (SWOG)] are studying IFN gamma in pursuit of this goal in advanced and adjuvant settings for melanoma and other tumors. The determination of the clinical role of IFN as biologic response modifiers demands equal commitment to the clinical assessment of immunobiologic mechanisms and anti-tumor effects. The immunologic assessment of IFN and a number of other cytokines is a major focus of the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute. Regional delivery of cytokines such as interleukin-2 (IL-2) may be the most appropriate and least toxic approach, given their half-life. Regional therapy by the intralesional route has yielded enhanced activity for a range of biologics, including bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), IL-2, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Intralymphatic therapy with methanol extraction residue of BCG (MER-BCG) has been tested, and trials are now in progress with IL-2 to assess the optimal dosage by this route. It is likely that the optimal role of IFN and other cytokines will be found in combination with one another, and with different biologic modalities such as monoclonal antibodies and vaccines, to allow expansion and heightened activity of the desired effector cell populations in the host. Enhanced host toxicities, as well as anti-tumor effects, may require that special attention be devoted to optimal sequence of administration to enhance the therapeutic index. 
Effectiveness of histopathological diagnoses in dysfunction of hepatic transplantation. Review of 146 histopathological studies from 53 transplants. In 47 patients who underwent 53 liver transplantations and immunosuppression with cyclosporine (cyclosporin A), methylprednisolone sodium succinate, and antithymocyte globulin, 146 histopathological studies were performed (138 biopsies, six hepatectomies, and two autopsies). The following microscopical diagnoses were made: 43 acute rejections (29.4%), six chronic rejections (4.1%), 18 liver blood perfusion changes (12.3%), 15 biliary changes (10.2%), 10 cases of functional cholestasis (6.8%), two drug reactions (1.3%), two hepatitis B virus recurrences (1.3%), 11 opportunistic viral infections (7.5%), 18 minimal changes (12.3%), two nonclassifiable changes (1.3%), and 19 plurietiological changes (13%). A histopathological diagnosis of acute rejection was made in 31 transplants (58.4%). In 22 (71%) of them, acute rejection was diagnosed with the protocol biopsy specimen that was obtained during the second posttransplant week. Leukocyte counts and serum bilirubin and enzyme levels were obtained on the same day that the hepatic biopsy specimens were taken. There was no significant statistical difference between the mean serum data that accompanied each histopathological diagnosis, allowing identification of a characteristic biochemical profile for the causes of graft dysfunction. We report a detailed description of the microscopical findings of each diagnosis and the following conclusions: (1) Acute rejection is the most frequent cause of hepatic dysfunction and has an early appearance during the posttransplant period. (2) Histopathological findings can identify the causes of the dysfunction. (3) There is no specific biochemical pattern to differentiate these causes. This may be due to the frequent combination of etiological factors in every dysfunction episode. 
Medical and surgical treatment of nonallergic asthma associated with gastroesophageal reflux Patients presenting to a chest clinic because of adult-onset wheezing with no history of allergy had a 90 percent prevalence of gastroesophageal reflux, even though reflux symptoms were mild or absent. Ninety patients were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine or an identical placebo or to undergo antireflux surgery. During a six-month period, all groups improved clinically; the cimetidine and surgical groups improved more than the placebo group. The intake of pulmonary medication decreased significantly in both cimetidine and surgical groups. Pulmonary function test results improved in the cimetidine- and surgically treated patients; improvement was not statistically significant. At long-term follow-up, the surgical group maintained clinical improvement and decreased pulmonary medication intake, whereas the placebo group worsened. We conclude that gastroesophageal reflux can play a significant role in some patients with nonallergic pulmonary disease and that its treatment can improve pulmonary symptoms and objective measurements of pulmonary function. 
Liver tumors in cirrhosis: experimental study with SPIO-enhanced MR imaging. The influence of cirrhosis on superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the liver was studied in 31 rats. Experimental models included carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis and liver engrafting of rhabdomyosarcoma S4T cells. Hepatic uptake of SPIO measured with relaxometry decreased dramatically with histologic grade, while splenic uptake increased; the same results were achieved by calculating K values. Imaging of 13 tumorous cirrhotic rats confirmed these results by showing a muted decrease in liver signal intensity on spin-echo images after injection of SPIO. Nevertheless, all intrahepatic tumors could be visualized, as confirmed by postmortem examination. On gradient-echo images, postinjection contrast between the tumor and the liver was not affected by cirrhosis. Thus, despite strong impairment of hepatic uptake in cirrhosis, the diagnostic efficacy of MR imaging with SPIO did not seem to be significantly affected. 
The prognostic value of postoperative seizures following epilepsy surgery. Among 55 patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for refractory epilepsy, patients with seizures in the week following surgery had a poor long-term, seizure-free outcome compared with patients without seizures. Outcome for patients with single seizures or seizures restricted to the first postoperative day seemed favorable compared with patients with multiple or later seizures. Seizure type and similarity to preoperative events did not predict outcome. 
Intracoronary recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in unstable angina: a pilot angiographic study. The effectiveness of intracoronary (IC) recombinant thromboplastin activator (rt-PA) was prospectively evaluated in seven patients with unstable angina and complex angiographic lesions or intracoronary filling defects (ICFD). There were four men and three women, with a mean age of 60 years. Three patients had multivessel disease and all patients had rest angina; none had evolving myocardial infarction. All patients were pretreated with aspirin and were given heparin. IC rt-PA was infused at the rate of 1 mg/min to a total of 50 mg, and angiographic changes were observed every 15 minutes. At 50 minutes, angiographic improvement was seen in two patients (28%), one of whom had complete and one of whom had partial resolution of ICFD. In two patients (28%) there was no change in the lesion, and three patients (42%) had worsening of the lesion appearance. In two of the latter, paradoxical closure was observed at the end of the infusion, and was treated successfully with ad hoc emergency angioplasty. This pilot study suggests that IC rt-PA at the dosage used may have variable effects on complex coronary lesions associated with unstable angina, and this may be of relevance in further trials evaluating IC thrombolysis in unstable coronary ischemic syndromes. 
Optimal dose of neuroleptic in acute schizophrenia. A controlled study of the neuroleptic threshold and higher haloperidol dose. After individual determination of neuroleptic threshold (NT) doses of haloperidol, 106 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (Research Diagnostic Criteria) were treated openly at such doses (mean, 3.7 +/- 2.3 mg/d) for 2 weeks. Ten responding patients were discharged and unavailable for follow-up or refused subsequent randomization, and one non-responding patient refused randomization. The remaining 95 responding or nonresponding patients were then randomly assigned, double-blind, to a dosage of haloperidol two to 10 times higher (mean, 11.6 +/- 4.7 mg/d) or to a continuing NT dosage (mean, 3.4 +/- 2.3 mg/d) for another 2 weeks. Of the 58 patients exposed only to NT dosages of haloperidol, 72% clinically recovered within the 5-week trial. Higher dosages given to 47 patients did not lead to greater improvement in measures of psychosis, but did produce slightly greater declines in measures of hostility. Higher dosages did regularly lead to significant increases in distressing extrapyramidal side effects. 
Oxygen-dependent lipid peroxidation during lung ischemia. The effect of alveolar oxygen tension on lung lipid peroxidation during lung ischemia was evaluated by using isolated rat lungs perfused with synthetic medium. After a 5-min equilibration period, global ischemia was produced by discontinuing perfusion while ventilation continued with gas mixtures containing 5% CO2 and a fixed oxygen concentration between 0 and 95%. Lipid peroxidation was assessed by measurement of tissue thiobarbituric acid-reactive products and conjugated dienes. Control studies (no ischemia) showed no change in parameters of lipid peroxidation during 1 h of perfusion and ventilation with 20% or 95% O2. With 60 min of ischemia, there was increased lipid peroxidation which varied with oxygen content of the ventilating gas and was markedly inhibited by ventilation with N2. Perfusion with 5-, 8-, 11-, 14-eicosatetraynoic acid indicated that generation of eicosanoids during ischemia accounted for approximately 40-50% of lung lipid peroxide production. Changes of CO2 content of the ventilating gas (to alter tissue pH) or of perfusate glucose concentration had no effect on lipid peroxidation during ischemia, but perfusion at 8% of the normal flow rate prevented lipid peroxidation. Lung dry/wet weight measured after 3 min of reperfusion showed good correlation between lung fluid accumulation and lipid peroxidation. These results indicate that reperfusion is not necessary for lipid peroxidation with ischemic insult of the lung and provide evidence that elevated PO2 during ischemia accelerates the rate of tissue injury. 
Surgical treatment of limbic epilepsy associated with extrahippocampal lesions: the problem of dual pathology. The authors present their review of 178 patients who underwent en bloc temporal lobectomies as surgical treatment for intractable epilepsy. Hippocampal cell density was quantitatively analyzed and the histology of the anterior temporal lobe was reviewed. Fifty-four patients (30.3%) had evidence of extrahippocampal lesions in addition to neuronal cell loss within the hippocampus (the dual pathology group). The pattern of cell loss was analyzed in the remaining 124 cases (69.7%) with no extrahippocampal pathology, and compared with that of the dual pathology group and a control group of four nonepileptic patients. Hippocampal cell loss was found in almost all epileptic patients compared to the control group. Severe cell loss greater than 30% of control values was found in 88.7% of patients without extrahippocampal lesions, but in only 51.8% of patients with dual pathology. The difference between these two groups was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). In the dual pathology group, lesions of different pathology had a significant relationship with the degree of hippocampal cell loss: all 12 patients with glioma had mild cell loss, whereas all 13 patients with heterotopia were associated with severe cell loss. Severity of hippocampal cell loss was also analyzed in relation to seizure history: a prior severe head injury was associated with severe cell loss. Other factors such as seizure duration, secondary generalization, or family history of seizures were not associated with hippocampal damage. Dual pathology may produce a combination of neocortical and temporolimbic epilepsies that warrants a precise definition of the true epileptogenic area prior to surgical treatment. 
Congenital cholesteatoma of the middle ear in children: a clinical and histopathological report. Forty-one children with congenital cholesteatoma of the middle ear seen from 1978 through 1989 are reviewed. The most common presentation was that of an asymptomatic white mass behind a normal intact tympanic membrane. Computed tomography (CT) scan was useful in documenting extension beyond the mesotympanum. Surgical removal was performed using an extended tympanotomy for lesions in the middle ear and tympanomastoidectomy for those that had extended into attic and mastoid air cells. Observation over an average 3.1-year period indicated that 80% of children were free of disease after initial surgery. Residual disease that required further surgery was present in 20%. The importance of early diagnosis of congenital cholesteatoma is strongly advocated. The prognosis is better when the cholesteatoma is confined to the anterosuperior quadrant of the middle ear. Seventeen patients in this study had such a lesion, and extended tympanotomy allowed removal of an encapsulated closed cholesteatoma with normal postoperative hearing and no residual cholesteatoma. The average age was 2.3 years. Temporal bone histopathological studies of three cases of congenital cholesteatoma demonstrate two distinct pathological types of congenital cholesteatoma. A "closed" keratotic cyst in the anterior mesotympanum, which is easily removed, and an "open" infiltrative type in which there is no containment of the keratotic debris and the cholesteatoma matrix is in direct continuity with middle ear mucosa. Surgical extirpation of the "open" type is difficult and more likely to be associated with residual disease. 
Sexually transmitted papilloma viral infection in the male. VII. Is cancer of penis sexually transmitted? Four cases are reported of squamous cell carcinoma of the genital tract in males. The close association of HPV 16/18 with in situ squamous carcinoma affecting the penis is demonstrated. The first documented case of a primary penile squamous cell carcinoma with metastatic deposits yielding positive HPV 16/18 isolates as shown by in situ DNA hybridization again demonstrates a close association of this virus to malignancy in humans. The clinical implications of these findings strongly suggest that squamous cell carcinoma of the penis is a sexually transmitted disease. A thorough examination of both sexual partners is necessary when Bowenoid papulosis or penile carcinoma is present, since the female partner is at high risk for cervical neoplasia. 
Hemi-Fontan operation in surgery for single ventricle: a preliminary report Mortality after Fontan operation is related to risk factors like ventricular hypertrophy, pulmonary artery deformity, and young age (infancy). Preliminary procedures may improve Fontan results. The hemi-Fontan operation includes atriopulmonary anastomosis and correction of all anatomical risk factors, but an atriopulmonary patch directs superior vena caval flow into both pulmonary arteries and inferior vena caval flow into the ventricle, thus maintaining cardiac output (modified Glenn physiology). We performed 17 hemi-Fontan procedures in 16 patients, 14 primarily (median age, 9 months) and 3 for takedown of a Fontan operation. The 14 primary operations were for hypoplastic left heart syndrome (5), pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum (4), and other (5). All patients had multiple risk factors. Extubation was at 18 hours (median), chest tube removal was at 3 days, and hospital discharge was at 8 days postoperatively. Important complications included subglottic stenosis, transient diaphragmatic paralysis, pulmonary artery stenosis and thrombosis requiring reoperation, and transient ventricular fibrillation. One patient required hemi-Fontan takedown, and this patient later (3 months postoperatively) became the only death. Fontan take-downs have had a high mortality rate. In 3 patients who tolerated Fontan operation poorly, converting Fontan to hemi-Fontan abruptly reversed the downhill course. For these patients, the operation was life-saving. Hemi-Fontan operation is safe and well-tolerated, even in infants, provides the advantages of modified Glenn physiology before Fontan operation, and may be especially useful for Fontan takedown after failed Fontan. 
A clinicopathological study of seven globes enucleated after primary radiation therapy for malignant melanoma of the choroid or ciliary body. Seven patients with malignant melanoma of the choroid or ciliary body were initially managed with radiation therapy, either teletherapy with proton or cobalt 60 external beam, or brachytherapy with the insertion of an episcleral plaque containing iodine 125, 60Co or gold 198. All seven globes subsequently were enucleated because of progressive growth of the tumours, total retinal detachment, persistent vitreous hemorrhage, or neovascular or angle-closure glaucoma. Six of the patients had severe visual loss at the time of enucleation. The effects of radiation therapy on the neoplasms and the mechanisms for the visual loss are discussed. 
Nerve cell loss in the thalamus in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Serial sections through the thalamus from the fixed right cerebral hemispheres of 15 cases (5 Parkinson's disease, 5 Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 5 controls) were used to obtain quantitative estimates of neuronal loss, neurofibrillary tangle formation and Lewy body inclusions within individual thalamic nuclei. Severe neuronal loss and tangle formation were evident in the anterodorsal nucleus from the AD cases. Nerve cell damage was also present in the centromedian nucleus but was not associated with tangle formation and occurred in all but 2 of the brains examined. It is likely that the anterodorsal neurons are damaged locally by the Alzheimer's disease process whereas the changes in the centromedian nucleus may be related to ageing. 
Effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha on the proliferation of leukemic cells from children with B-cell precursor-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL): studies of primary leukemic cells and BCP-ALL cell lines. The effect of recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha (rTNF-alpha) on the primary leukemic blasts and leukemic cell lines derived from children with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) was studied. The proliferation of leukemic cells from the bone marrow of 11 of 13 patients (seven at diagnosis, four in relapse) and from the 697 (BCP-ALL) cell line was significantly inhibited by rTNF-alpha at the lowest dose tested (0.1 ng/mL), as measured by 3H-TdR uptake. The degree of inhibition was variable, ranging from 17% to 78%. Furthermore, a dose-dependent inhibitory effect was observed, with approximately 70% mean inhibition of DNA synthesis detected when cells from 12 of 13 patients were incubated with 100 ng/mL of rTNF-alpha for 3 days. In contrast, rTNF-alpha did not inhibit another BCP-ALL cell line (EU-1/ALL) established recently in our laboratory. Studies indicated that the TNF-alpha gene was expressed by the primary leukemic blasts of one TNF-resistant case in his third relapse and by EU-1 cells. Also, TNF-alpha protein was detected by Western blot analysis and enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay in the supernatant of EU-1 cells; this is the first report of TNF production by a BCP-ALL cell lines. The production of TNF-alpha mRNA and protein was not detected in the 697 cell line and in the primary leukemic blasts from six patients (four at diagnosis, two in relapse) whose leukemic cells were inhibited by TNF. The partially purified TNF-alpha obtained from the EU-1 cell line also suppressed the proliferation of TNF-sensitive primary leukemic cells, and this inhibitory activity was abolished by an anti-TNF-alpha specific antibody. Our results demonstrate that TNF-alpha is an inhibitor of in vitro proliferation of BCP-ALL cells from most patients. The TNF-resistant leukemic cells from a few patients and the EU-1 cell line express TNF mRNA, suggesting that the induction of TNF gene expression is associated with the development of TNF resistance. 
Long-term results after balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. BACKGROUND. The objective of this study was to determine the long-term outcome of patients after percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty (BPV) treatment of congenital pulmonary valve stenosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. This study represents a case series with duration (mean +/- SD) of follow-up of 4.6 +/- 1.9 years. Forty-six patients with a median age of 4.6 years (range, 3 months to 56 years) had BPV at one academic institution between June 1981 and December 1986. Mean peak systolic pressure gradients from the right ventricle to the pulmonary artery were as follows: before BPV, 70 +/- 36 mm Hg; immediately after BPV, 23 +/- 14 mm Hg; at intermediate follow-up by cardiac catheterization or Doppler echocardiography at less than 2 years after BPV, 23 +/- 16 mm Hg (n = 33); and at long-term follow-up by Doppler at more than 2 years after BPV, 20 +/- 13 mm Hg (n = 42). BPV acutely reduced the gradient to less than 36 mm Hg for 41 of 46 (89%) patients. Available gradients at long-term follow-up were less than 36 mm Hg for 36 of 42 (86%) patients without additional procedures. A patient age of less than 2 years at the initial BPV was a significant risk factor for gradients over 36 mm Hg at follow-up. CONCLUSIONS. BPV provides long-term relief of pulmonary valvular obstruction in the majority of patients. Close follow-up of patients who require BPV at less than 2 years of age is warranted. 
Primary fibromyalgia and the irritable bowel syndrome: different expressions of a common pathogenetic process. Primary fibromyalgia (PFM) and the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are both common conditions which account for 30% or more of referrals to rheumatology and gastroenterology clinics. An association between symptoms in PFM and IBS has been suggested but the frequency with which they coexist has not been assessed. The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of each condition in groups of patients with PFM and IBS compared to normal and disease control populations. We studied four patient groups, 20 patients in each group, with PFM, IBS, inflammatory arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and also 20 normal controls. Using strict diagnostic criteria, each group was assessed by two investigators for symptoms and signs of PFM and IBS. Sigmoidoscopy was performed when indicated. Results indicate that 70% (14/20) of the PFM patients had IBS and 65% (13/20) of the IBS patients had PFM. This compared with the control groups where 12% (7/60) and 10% (6/60) had PFM and IBS respectively. In conclusion, these results indicate that PFM and IBS frequently coexist. A common pathogenetic mechanism for both conditions is therefore suggested. 
Diagnostic value of Lipiodol injection in focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. We encountered a case of small focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) of the liver. It was difficult to distinguish FNH from hepatocellular carcinoma by means of sonography, computed tomography (CT), and angiography. After the injection of Lipiodol, it accumulated densely on FNH, but was washed away after a short time, as observed on the follow-up CT. This progress was different from that in hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Tumor necrosis factor-beta in the serum of adult T-cell leukemia with hypercalcemia. Serum tumor necrosis factor-beta (TNF-beta) from patients with adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) was studied by a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) developed in our laboratory using biotinylated monoclonal anti-TNF-beta and recombinant TNF-beta. Seven of eight patients with hypercalcemia showed elevation of serum TNF-beta. On the other hand, TNF-beta could not be detected by the ELISA in 28 patients without hypercalcemia. The lower detection limit in this assay was 100 pg/mL, corresponding to 500 pg/mL by the conventional method. In two patients serum TNF-beta level decreased after treatment in association with the level of serum calcium. Furthermore, immuno-staining using anti-TNF-beta and avidin-biotin complex showed the presence of cytoplasmic TNF-beta in not only human T-cell leukemia virus type I infected cell lines, but also freshly isolated cells from ATL patients with hypercalcemia. The actual biologic activity of TNF-beta in serum was confirmed by a conventional bioassay in a patient with hypercalcemia, and its cytotoxic activity was inhibited by the addition of anti-TNF-beta antibody in the assay. These results suggested that serum TNF-beta might be one of the factors contributing to the hypercalcemia, at least in patients with ATL. 
Warm ischemia induces alteration in lung immune cell functions. Warm ischemia is an important factor in early allograft dysfunction. To elucidate cellular events involved in such lung injury, we examined the effects of warm ischemia on the cytotoxic function of lymphocytes retrieved by bronchoalveolar lavage as compared with peripheral blood lymphocytes. Warm ischemia of the lung was induced in eight dogs by crossclamping left hilar structures for 1 hour. Bronchoalveolar cells from ischemia left and unaffected right lungs, as well as blood lymphocytes, were isolated before operation and 2 hours, 72 hours, and 7 days after operation. Lung and blood lymphocytes were assayed for natural killer and lectin-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Warm ischemia resulted in a significant impairment of natural killer activity within 2 hours of reperfusion (49% of preoperative control cytolysis, p less than 0.01). There was a significant increase in natural killer activity in bronchoalveolar lavage mononuclear cells 72 hours after reperfusion injury (178.4% of preoperative value, p less than 0.01). Interestingly, these functional alterations were not paralleled with changes seen in the peripheral blood lymphocytes or the opposite nonaffected lungs, where the natural killer activity appeared significantly depressed at 72 hours. Similarly, lectin-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity was noted to be increased in the bronchoalveolar lavage from the ischemic lung (179.5%, p less than 0.01) but decreased in the bronchoalveolar lavage from the nonaffected lung and peripheral blood lymphocytes at 72 hours after injury. We conclude that warm ischemia is associated with a functional alteration of the local lung immune cells. Such alteration is not observed in cells from the opposite lung or peripheral blood. The observed increase in nonspecific cytotoxicity of bronchoalveolar lymphocytes can be causative in the early damage seen in poorly preserved lung allografts. 
Is hypertension an insulin-resistant state? Metabolic changes associated with hypertension and antihypertensive therapy. In this review, the relationship between hypertension and abnormal carbohydrate metabolism is explored. A review of the current literature reveals that people with hypertension are also likely to suffer from insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, and hyperinsulinemia. Likewise, hypertension is prevalent in obese and diabetic patients. Deficiency of insulin at the cellular level may be a common mechanism in the development of hypertension in patients with type I or type II diabetes mellitus. Essential hypertension appears to be an insulin-resistant state. Insulin resistance may engender hypertension by increasing peripheral vascular resistance as well as by increasing salt retention at the level of the kidney. Therefore effective antihypertensive therapy should include agents that do not adversely affect carbohydrate metabolic abnormalities. Commonly used antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide, thiazide-like diuretics, and beta-blockers, are associated with glucose intolerance and increased insulin resistance. In contrast, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium antagonists, and peripheral alpha-blockers (such as prazosin and terazosin) do not adversely affect glucose tolerance or insulin sensitivity. In addition, alpha-blockers have a positive effect on the serum lipid profile. The entire multifactorial cardiac risk profile must be considered when choosing therapeutic agents for conditions that have an impact on cardiovascular disease. 
The unstable ST segment early after thrombolysis for acute infarction and its usefulness as a marker of recurrent coronary occlusion. To investigate the incidence of early recurrent ST elevation after intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, 12-lead electrocardiograms were continuously monitored for 571 +/- 326 minutes in 31 patients presenting within 4 hours of symptom onset. The study group comprised 9 women and 22 men (mean age +/- standard deviation 53 +/- 12 years), with ST elevation (anterior in 15, inferior in 16) on the initial electrocardiogram, who were given either tissue plasminogen activator (22 patients) or streptokinase (9 patients). Angiography was performed in 30 of 31 patients at 7 to 10 days. Early (less than 3 hours) resolution of ST elevation occurred in 19 patients (61%) at a median of 94 minutes (interquartile range 57 to 113) after thrombolysis, whereas 12 (39%) had no or late (greater than 6 hours) resolution. Eleven of the 19 with early resolution (58%) had either transient (5 patients) or sustained (6 patients) recurrences of ST elevation. Recurrent ST elevation was equal to or more than the initial peak elevation in 9 of 11 patients, and greater than 75% of initial peak in 2. A total of 25 episodes of recurrent ST elevation were observed in the 11 patients (19 transient and 6 sustained episodes), of which 8 (32%) were silent. The proportion of silent episodes was similar for transient (35%) and sustained (33%) recurrences. All patients with sustained recurrent ST elevation had at least 1 preceding transient recurrence. The median duration of transient recurrent ST elevation was 43 minutes (28 to 63). 
Management and long-term outcome of aortic dissection. All 163 patients admitted to one institution between 1975 and 1988 with aortic dissection were reviewed. Type I and type II patients received grafting of the ascending aorta, with an intraoperative mortality rate of 11%. For type III dissection, management was medical in 53 patients, while 19 required surgery for aortic rupture or expansion, with an intraoperative mortality rate of 11%. The 9- or 10-year survival rates were 29%, 46%, and 29% for types I, II, and III respectively. Of 135 patients with primary aortic dissection, 17 (13%) required subsequent aortic surgery. Cause of late death was other cardiovascular disease in 38%, rupture of another aortic segment in 18%, sudden death in 24%, and other medical conditions in 21%. Although operative therapy for types I and II dissections and reserving operation for selected type III dissections provides acceptable long-term survival, careful follow-up is necessary due to concurrent cardiovascular disease and residual aortic disease. 
Hemangiomas and vascular malformations. Vascular lesions in the neonate and infant are categorized as hemangiomas or malformations. Although their appearances may be similar, the pathobiology, natural history, and prognosis of these lesions are different. Selected important syndromes that are characterized as hemangiomas and vascular malformations are discussed, and an update on what is new in treatment, including laser therapy, is presented. 
"Angioglioma" and the arteriovenous malformation-glioma association. The term "angioglioma" denotes a highly vascular glioma, most of which are low-grade lesions associated with a favorable prognosis. The authors encountered an example of this pathology, a cystic oligodendroglioma associated with prominent vasculature which both clinically and histologically mimicked an occult arteriovenous malformation (AVM). This case and reports of the association of AVM and glioma prompted a histological review of 1034 surgically resected AVM's, both angiographically occult and visible, among which no oligodendroglial or astrocytic forms of "angioglioma" were found. Eight cases were observed, however, wherein oligodendroglial cells were increased in number within or about the malformation. Two basic histological patterns of oligodendroglial cell excess were seen; one appeared to be malformative in nature with abnormal disposition of oligodendroglial cells being an integral part of the AVM, whereas in the other an apparent increase in cellularity seemed the result of chronic ischemia with condensation of white matter. It appeared that the areas of increased oligodendrocyte content seen in association with AVM are non-neoplastic lesions that exhibit two rather distinct histological patterns of differing origin. In an effort to determine the frequency of "angioglioma," the authors examined Tissue Registry data for several glioma groups in which highly vascular examples are prone to occur. Tumors selected for study included 104 cerebellar-type (pilocytic) astrocytomas, 82 oligodendrogliomas, and 51 supratentorial pilocytic astrocytomas. Histological hypervascularity mimicking a vascular malformation (that is, an "angioglioma") was encountered in 5%, 4%, and 12% of the cases, respectively. Based upon clinical, radiological, and pathological reviews of these cases, as well as a careful review of the literature, it was concluded that 1) "angiogliomas" are neither rare nor represent a distinct clinicopathological entity; 2) in histological but not necessarily angiographic surgical terms, they represent simply highly vascular gliomas, usually of low grade; and 3) the clinicopathological and angiographic features as well as the prognosis of such lesions do not differ from those of similar gliomas without angioma-like vasculature. Finally, "angiogliomas" must not be confused with gliomas of high-grade malignancy which, due to neovascularity, may be highly vascular at angiography and at surgery. 
Differential gene expression in the recovery from ischemic renal injury. Recovery from renal ischemia requires regeneration of damaged tubular epithelium. Previous studies have examined the expression of proto-oncogenes and growth factors after ischemia, but the response of genes coding for structural and functional genes has not been scrutinized. Rats were subjected to 40 minutes of renal artery occlusion and 60 minutes to 96 hours of reperfusion. Total RNA was isolated and mRNA for the structural protein actin, the enzymes superoxide dismutase and renin, the proto-oncogene c-fos, the nuclear protein histone H2b, and the putative marker for cell injury TRPM-2 was quantitated by Northern hybridization. Expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos was seen early but for only short duration. Histone gene expression was not markedly increased until 24 hours after ischemia, but remained increased for several days. Renin mRNA was undetectable one hour after ischemia, but was present in normal amounts at 24 and 48 hours. In contrast, superoxide dismutase mRNA was present in decreased amounts 24, 48, and 96 hours after ischemia. TRPM-2 gene expression was greatly increased 24 to 72 hours after ischemia and began decreasing at 96 hours. This selective sequence of gene expression or repression after renal ischemia might maximize the proliferative repair process. This information will be useful for designing therapies to further enhance recovery from acute renal injury. 
Asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses are more prevalent among patients with unsuspected renal artery stenoses. The prevalence of unsuspected renal artery stenosis among patients with peripheral vascular disease has been reported to be as high as 40%, but the prevalence of asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses in these patients is not known. The biplane aortograms of 205 male patients who were military veterans and had aneurysms or occlusive disease were independently reviewed, and medical records were studied to determine associated coronary disease, risk factors, and patient outcome. Fifty-six patients (27%) had a 50% or greater stenosis in the celiac or superior mesenteric artery, and seven patients (3.4%) had significant stenoses in both mesenteric arteries. Patients with celiac or superior mesenteric artery stenoses were older (p = 0.002) and had a higher prevalence of hypertension (p = 0.029) than those without significant mesenteric stenoses. Fifty of the 205 patients had significant renal artery stenoses, and 20 had advanced (greater than 75% diameter loss) renal stenoses. Ten of the 20 patients (50%) with advanced renal stenoses had a concomitant celiac artery stenosis, compared to 40 of the 185 patients (22%) who did not have advanced renal stenoses (p = 0.011). In the present study asymptomatic celiac or superior mesenteric artery stenoses were common among male veterans evaluated for peripheral vascular disease, but the prevalence of significant stenoses in both the celiac and superior mesenteric arteries was low. The prevalence of significant celiac stenosis was higher in patients with advanced (greater than 75%) renal artery stenoses who might be considered for prophylactic renal revascularization. Lateral aortography with evaluation of the celiac artery is always appropriate in these patients. 
Dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy as a preoperative screening test. A reexamination of its predictive potential. Study of Perioperative Ischemia Research Group BACKGROUND. We examined the value of dipyridamole thallium-201 (201Tl) scintigraphy as a preoperative screening test for perioperative myocardial ischemia and infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. We prospectively studied 60 patients undergoing elective vascular surgery. We performed 201Tl scintigraphy preoperatively and blinded all treating physicians to the results. Historical, clinical, laboratory, and physiological data were gathered throughout hospitalization. Myocardial ischemia was assessed during the intraoperative period using continuous 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and during the postoperative period using continuous two-lead ambulatory ECG. Adverse cardiac outcomes (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, severe ischemia, or congestive heart failure) were assessed daily throughout hospitalization. Twenty-two patients (37%) had defects that improved or reversed on delayed scintigrams (redistribution defects), 18 (30%) had persistent defects, and 20 (33%) had no defects on 201Tl scintigraphy. There was no association between redistribution defects and adverse cardiac outcomes: 54% (seven of 13) of adverse outcomes occurred in patients without redistribution defects, and the risk of an adverse outcome was not significantly increased in patients with redistribution defects (relative risk 1.5, 95% confidence interval 0.6-3.9, p = 0.43). Consistent with these findings, there was also no association between redistribution defects and perioperative ischemia: 54% (19 of all 35) of perioperative ECG and TEE ischemic episodes and 58% (14 of 24) of severe ischemic episodes occurred in patients without redistribution defects. The sensitivity of 201Tl scintigraphy for perioperative ischemia and adverse outcomes ranged from 40% to 54%, specificity from 65% to 71%, positive predictive value from 27% to 47% and negative predictive value from 61% to 82%. CONCLUSIONS. These results differ from those of previous studies and suggest that the routine use of 201Tl scintigraphy for preoperative screening of patients undergoing vascular surgery may not be warranted. 
Frequency of the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis syndrome in oral malignancies. There have been a number of reports over the last 15 years of patients with cancer who develop both leukocytosis and hypercalcemia, particularly in patients with cancers of the oral cavity. In this study, the authors report the frequency of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis in 225 patients with oral malignancies. Ten patients (4.4%) had hypercalcemia, 11 patients (4.9%) had leukocytosis, and five (2.2%) had both hypercalcemia and leukocytosis. The occurrence of these two distinct paraneoplastic syndromes in the same patients was greater than could have been expected from chance alone (chi-square = 45.8, P less than 0.0001). This study demonstrates that although hypercalcemia and leukocytosis are relatively uncommon in oral cancers, when they do occur they are frequently associated. To the knowledge of the authors, this is the first report in which the frequency of the association hypercalcemia and leukocytosis is studied in detail in large numbers of patients with oral cancer. 
Patients who leave a public hospital emergency department without being seen by a physician. Causes and consequences OBJECTIVE: To determine whether patients who sought care at a public hospital emergency department and left without being seen by a physician needed immediate medical attention and whether they obtained care after leaving. DESIGN: Follow-up study of patients who left without being seen and of patients who waited to be seen by a physician. SETTING: A public hospital's emergency department in Torrance, Calif. PATIENTS: All patients who registered for care and left without being seen (n = 186) and a 20% random sample of patients who waited until they were seen (n = 211) in a 2-week period during spring 1990. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: At time of presentation: triage nurse urgency assessment, clinical acuity rating, and self-reported health status. At follow-up: hospitalization rates. RESULTS: Patients who left reported that they had waited 6.4 hours before leaving; those who stayed reported a 6.2-hour wait before being seen. There were no differences between those who left and those who stayed in chief complaint, triage nurse assessment, acuity ratings, or self-reported health status. Forty-six percent of those who left were judged to need immediate medical attention, and 29% needed care within 24 to 48 hours. Eleven percent of those who left were hospitalized within the next week, and three patients required emergency surgery. Nine percent of those who waited to be seen were hospitalized. Forty-nine percent of patients who left did not see a physician during the 1-week follow-up period. CONCLUSION: Overcrowding in this public hospital's emergency department restricts access to needed ambulatory medical care for the poor and uninsured. 
Immunogenicity of low-dose intradermal recombinant DNA hepatitis B vaccine. Low-dose intradermal vaccination with plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine has been shown to give high rates of seroconversion at greatly reduced vaccine cost. We report a study comparing two groups given lower doses (1.0 or 1.5 microgram) of recombinant-derived vaccine intradermally with a control group given the standard intramuscular dose. Of the 132 randomized medical students and hospital employees, 95 completed the study. Rates of seroconversion and peak antibody titers were comparable, though antibody rose more slowly and fell somewhat faster in the intradermal groups. Increasing the intradermal dose did not improve response. Most intradermal vaccinees (80%) developed small (average 2 to 3 mm) areas of local induration, which faded slowly. Low-dose intradermal vaccination with recombinant hepatitis B vaccine results in high rates of seroconversion (greater than 90% in each protocol) at a cost that will allow individual practitioners and program with limited budgets to offer vaccination. 
Evaluation of right ventricular early diastolic filling by cine nuclear magnetic resonance imaging in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Numerous studies have established abnormalities in systolic and diastolic function of the left ventricle in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. A consistent feature of this disease is reduced diastolic function of the left ventricle, but little information is available regarding right ventricular function in this disease. Cine nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging has been found to be effective for measuring right ventricular volumes and therefore was used to assess early diastolic filling of the right ventricle in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Right ventricular time-volume curves were obtained from cine NMR images in 10 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 8 normal subjects. Right ventricular volume was calculated with use of Simpson's algorithm at approximately 18 phases of the cardiac cycle and, from the curve, peak filling rate and filling fraction during the first third of diastole were determined. In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, peak filling rate tended to be less (176 +/- 46 vs. 305 +/- 50 ml/s, p less than 0.01) and filling fraction decreased (39.5 +/- 13.8 vs. 74.5 +/- 13.3%, p less than 0.01) in comparison with values in normal subjects. Thus, analysis of right ventricular time-volume curves obtained by using cine NMR imaging demonstrated diastolic dysfunction of the right ventricle in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Parathyroid adenoma manifested as pancreatitis and polyuria. Although the data used to explain a relationship between hyperparathyroidism and pancreatitis remain incomplete, there does appear to be a relationship between the two. We believe our patient's clinical course strongly supports this. 
Diffuse large cell lymphoma occurring in a patient with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Evidence for the two different clones in Richter's syndrome. The authors report a 60-year-old man with Richter's syndrome, or diffuse large cell lymphoma (DLCL) occurring in a patient with either chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM). Surface marker analysis revealed that the WM showed mu kappa surface immunoglobulin (Ig) chains, and that the DLCL showed mu lambda Ig chains. Flow cytometric DNA analysis demonstrated DNA content differences between WM and DLCL, the former diploid and the latter aneuploid. The current study suggests that Richter's syndrome derives from two independent B-cell malignancies. 
Pharmacokinetics of oral and intravenous omeprazole in patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral and IV omeprazole after a single dose were studied in 9 patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome to determine whether the increased dose required to control gastric acid hypersecretion could be explained on the basis of altered pharmacokinetics. Each patient was studied both after receiving a single IV bolus of omeprazole (40 mg) and after receiving a single oral dose of omeprazole (80 mg). Intravenous and oral omeprazole doses were administered 1 week apart. Gastric acid secretion and plasma concentrations of omeprazole after drug administration were determined in each patient. The area under the plasma concentration curve, clearance, and volume of distribution after IV omeprazole administration and the area under the plasma concentration curve, peak plasma concentration, and time required to reach the peak after oral omeprazole administration were not different from those reported previously for normal subjects and patients with peptic ulcer disease. Mean (+/- SEM) bioavailability of oral omeprazole for all patients was 68% +/- 16%, which was similar to the bioavailability reported previously for normal subjects. Three patients had a significantly lower bioavailability reported previously for normal subjects. Three patients had a significantly lower bioavailability (20% +/- 8%) than the others, and their basal acid outputs were significantly higher than those of the other 7 patients. For all patients there was an inverse correlation between bioavailability and basal acid output (r = 0.76; P less than 0.02). The mean (+/- SEM) elimination half-lives of IV and oral omeprazole were not different (2.3 +/- 0.4 vs. 2.4 +/- 0.5 hours) but were significantly longer than those reported previously for normal subjects (P less than 0.02). The duration of action correlated with the elimination half-life of the drug (r = 0.87; P less than 0.003) and area under the plasma concentration curve (r = 0.72; P less than 0.03). The mean durations of action of IV and oral omeprazole were not significantly different (34 +/- 7.2 vs. 35 +/- 6.2 hours). It was concluded that altered pharmacokinetics do not account for the increased drug requirement of omeprazole in patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. In contrast to a previous study, the oral and IV omeprazole had the same duration of action, suggesting that intermittent bolus administration of parenteral omeprazole will obviate the need for continuous infusion of histamine H2-receptor antagonists in patients requiring parenteral antisecretory drugs. Furthermore, an IV dose every 12 hours controlled acid secretion in all patients, suggesting this as the recommended dose interval in patients requiring parenteral drug therapy. 
Emphysema type in relation to silica dust exposure in South African gold miners. The relationship between silica dust exposure in gold mines and the type of emphysema was studied in a group of 1,553 white gold miners who had undergone autopsy examination between 1974 and 1987. Of particular interest was the contrast between centriacinar and panacinar emphysema as they relate to silica exposure and the presence of silicosis. Subjects with significant emphysema, that is, with an emphysema score of 30% or more, were classified as having predominantly panacinar or predominantly centriacinar emphysema, and compared to those without emphysema (emphysema score less than or equal to 10%). Of those who had significant emphysema (greater than or equal to 30%), 24% had predominantly panacinar, 43% predominantly centriacinar, and 33% were classified as mixed. The odds ratios (OR) for the association between each emphysema type and dust exposure (one unit of the cumulative dust index) were found to be statistically significant and of equal magnitude [1.019, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.005 to 1.033 for panacinar and 1.019 with a 95% CI of 1.007 to 1.031 for centriacinar emphysema]. In 163 nonsmokers insignificant panacinar emphysema was more common than centriacinar emphysema. The results indicate that a miner with 20 yr in high-dust occupations has a 3.5 (1.7;6.6) times higher odds of having a significant degree of emphysema at autopsy than a miner not in a dusty occupation. This is likely to be true of smoking miners only because there were only four nonsmokers with an emphysema score between 30 and 40%. 
Age-related differences in hepatic drug clearance in children: studies with lorazepam and antipyrine. The disposition of intravenous antipyrine and lorazepam, administered as model substrates for hepatic oxidative metabolism and conjugation, was evaluated in 50 children (mean age, 7.8 years; range, 2.3 to 17.8 years) with acute lymphocytic leukemia in complete remission and compared with a group of ten healthy adults. Antipyrine clearance normalized to body weight was significantly greater in children than in adults (0.91 versus 0.59 ml/min/kg; p = 0.012), but was not different when normalized to body surface area. In contrast, lorazepam total clearance (CL) and unbound clearance (CLu) normalized to body weight were not significantly different between children and adults but were smaller in children when normalized to body surface area (CL = 31.9 versus 40.6 ml/min/m2, p = 0.036; CLu = 352 versus 485 ml/min/m2, p = 0.010). The mean lorazepam fraction unbound in children was 0.087, which was not different from adult volunteers (0.084). This study has identified significant differences between children and adults in the disposition of these two compounds, with higher milliliter per minute per kilogram clearance for antipyrine but not lorazepam. 
Management of hypertension. Useful nonpharmacologic measures. Hypertension is a chronic problem commonly seen by primary care physicians. Inadequate treatment may result in significant morbidity and even death. Therefore, all patients with hypertension or at risk for hypertension should be educated about nonpharmacologic measures to control blood pressure. Weight reduction and sodium restriction are cornerstones of nonpharmacologic management of hypertension. Although studies of the effects of aerobic exercise on blood pressure are not well designed, data confirm the value of such exercise. Relaxation therapy has been shown to lower blood pressure, but effects may be transient. Potassium and calcium supplementation has lowered blood pressure, but because study results are contradictory, the exact clinical criteria for use of such supplements have not been determined. Vegetarians have lower blood pressure than nonvegetarians, but no specific dietary components (eg, fiber, fat) have been documented as the beneficial factors. Because of its significant pressor effect, alcohol should be avoided by hypertensives. A low-fat diet is recommended to decrease cardiovascular risk and assist in weight control. 
Pulmonary dysfunction in surgical conditions of the newborn infant. OBJECTIVE: To describe the pathophysiology of surgical conditions that are associated with respiratory insufficiency in the newborn infant. DESIGN: Survey. SETTING: Newborn ICU in a children's hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-four newborn infants (1 to 28 days old) who required endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation for operative procedures or postoperative ventilatory support. INTERVENTIONS: Flow-volume curves obtained by manual inflation of the lungs, followed by forced deflation by negative pressure, and by passive expiration, under sedation and pharmacologic paralysis. MEASUREMENTS: Deflation flow-volume curves and passive expiratory curves were measured. Pulmonary function testing before and after bronchodilator administration (n = 11) began midway during the study period. Term and preterm groups served as controls. MAIN RESULTS: Forced vital capacity (FVC) was decreased in all groups with surgical disease as follows: abdominal wall defects and necrotizing enterocolitis groups to 48.3% and 62.1% that of preterm, respectively; pulmonary hypoplasia group to 55.5% that of term (p less than .05). Maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC decreased in all groups: abdominal wall defects and necrotizing enterocolitis group, to 36.8% and 37.9% that of preterm, respectively (p less than .05); pulmonary hypoplasia group, 20.0% that of term (p less than .05). The ratio of maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC divided by FVC was significantly decreased in necrotizing enterocolitis and pulmonary hypoplasia groups compared with that of preterm and term groups, respectively, but not in the abdominal wall defects group. Maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC, but not FVC, increased significantly (36%, p less than .05) after bronchodilator nebulization, indicating the presence of airway reactivity. Respiratory system compliance was decreased significantly (p less than .05) in all surgical disease groups compared with the term group. CONCLUSIONS: Bronchial reactivity contributes to decreased maximal expiratory flow at 25% of FVC, a feature also seen in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome who later develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Babies who require chronic ventilatory support after operation and who have developed reactive airways may benefit from the administration of bronchodilators during postoperative ventilatory management. 
Acute appendicitis. A 5-year review. A startling 31 per cent rate of perforated appendicitis in 1984 prompted a 5-year review at the Guthrie Medical Center. An increase over previous rates of 13 per cent and 0 per cent in 1964 and 1944 was confirmed in this study. Perforation accompanied 44 of 240 cases of appendicitis (18.3%); diagnostic accuracy in 295 cases undergoing operation was 81.4 per cent. Groups at risk for perforation were patients in the first decade of life (34.3% with perforations) and those over 50 years of age (48% perforated). Perforation rates were generally inversely related to accuracy. Accuracy was poorest in women in the second to fourth decade or those in the mid-portion of the menstrual cycle. When the appendix was not perforated, complications occurred in 8.7 per cent of patients while 29.5 per cent with a perforation had a complication. The mean hospital stay was prolonged by 2.5 days if the appendix was perforated. An increased awareness of the risk by both the public and physicians is essential to reduce the number of perforations. 
Benign hemorrhagic adrenocortical macrocysts in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. A new pseudotumorous lesion found in the adrenal cortex of six infants with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is described. These cystic masses were discovered either prenatally by using sonography or early in the neonatal period as palpable flank masses. Imaging studies, including sonography and CT, could not confidently exclude malignancy. After the masses were removed surgically, histologic examination showed them all to be benign hemorrhagic macrocysts within the capsule or permanent cortex (in contrast to neonatal adrenal hemorrhage, which usually occurs more centrally in the fetal cortex). The cysts were as large as 8 cm in diameter, and in one case a solitary cyst was predominant. Hemihypertrophy was present in all cases. Four of the six lesions were right-sided, and there was a male-female ratio of 5:1. Benign hemorrhagic adrenocortical macrocysts are a cause of abdominal mass in the fetus and neonate with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. 
Shoulder impingement syndrome. A critical review. Impingement syndrome is an ill-defined term for a variety of disorders of the shoulder that manifest as anterior shoulder pain, especially during overhead activities. These disorders each have a common pathologic course that includes rotator cuff tendinitis (RCT), and, if untreated, may proceed to cuff rupture. RCT has at least two distinct etiologies. Primary impingement of the supraspinatus tendon on the coracoacromial arch is responsible in the majority of nonathletic cases. Overhead movements in sports are prone to developing secondary mechanical impingement because of an instability pattern that is common in this population. Information from this review and clinical practice permits differentiation of the two distinct etiologies of RCT which is important in treatment planning. Much work still needs to be done in defining the microscopic pathology of RCT. 
Propranolol pretreatment reduces cardiorespiratory toxicity due to plain, but not epinephrine-containing, intravenous bupivacaine in rats. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of pretreatment with propranolol on the cardio-respiratory toxicity of bupivacaine, either plain or with epinephrine 1:200,000 (5 micrograms.ml-1) added. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats, anaesthetized with intraperitoneal pentobarbital, were divided into four groups. Groups I and III were pretreated with iv propranolol 150 micrograms.kg-1, and Groups II and IV received iv NS as a placebo. Three minutes later, rats in Groups I and II received plain 0.5% bupivacaine, 4 mg.kg-1, and Groups III and IV received 4 mg.kg-1 of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine, 5 micrograms.ml-1 iv. Five of eight rats pretreated with propranolol survived (Group I), compared with uniform fatality with NS pretreatment (Group II) (P less than 0.05). Addition of epinephrine to the bupivacaine eliminated the protective effect of propranolol. All rats pretreated with propranolol (Group III) or NS (Group IV) died when given bupivacaine with epinephrine. In conclusion, acute propranolol pretreatment reduced the fatal cardiotoxicity due to iv bupivacaine in male Sprague Dawley rats, but the addition of epinephrine 5 micrograms.ml-1 to bupivacaine eliminated the protective effect of propranolol. 
Quantification of valvular regurgitation by Doppler echocardiography. One of the widest uses of color Doppler echocardiography is for the quantification of valvular regurgitation. In this article we review the physics and instrumentation factors related to the most commonly applied method, that of planimetering areas of regurgitant jet spray within the receiving chamber, and relate features such as instrument gain, pulse repetition frequency, and important physical parameters such as receiving chamber compliance and driving pressure to the application of this method for precordial as well as transesophageal echocardiography. New approaches to the quantification of valvular insufficiency, such as measurement of the momentum of the jet and study of the acceleration flow in the proximal flow convergence region within the chamber of origin of an insufficiency jet and proximal to the orifice, are described and preliminary results given for a new method of quantification of volume flow across regurgitant orifices. 
Epidemiology of absence epilepsy: EEG findings and their predictive value. This population-based study of absence epilepsy comprised 97 children, ranging in age from newborns to 15 years. All had regular bilaterally synchronous and symmetric 2-4 Hz spike-and-slow wave discharges and absences with or without generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS). Patients without GTCS tended to have long episodes of 2-4 Hz spike-and-slow wave discharges (greater than or equal to 10 sec), and simultaneous clinical correlates more frequently than those with GTCS. Posterior delta rhythm was found only in patients without GTCS. Focal abnormalities, albeit transient, were more frequent among patients with GTCS. The initial electroencephalogram was of some early predictive value in patients with only absences at the time of the initial registration. Brief episodes of 2-4 Hz spike-and-slow wave (less than 10 sec) without clinical correlates were associated with a slightly increased risk of future GTCS. 
Therapeutic adherence in the elderly: transdermal clonidine compared to oral verapamil for hypertension. This double-blind, double-dummy, randomized clinical trial, conducted in elderly patients with mild hypertension, compared adherence to treatment, efficacy, side effects, and quality of life during treatment with transdermal clonidine versus oral sustained-release verapamil (verapamil-SR). Blood pressure declined significantly--from 148/95 mm Hg at baseline to 139/84 after titration and 135/86 after maintenance--with transdermal clonidine (n = 29), and from 156/96 to 144/85 and 148/88, respectively, with verapamil-SR (n = 29). Adverse event rates and quality-of-life questionnaire responses were similar in the two treatment groups. Transdermal clonidine was worn as directed during more than 96% of patient-weeks of treatment. Compliance with the oral verapamil regimen was less consistent: Verapamil-SR was taken as directed during approximately 50% of patient-weeks of therapy, and individual compliance, assessed by tablet counts, varied from 50-120%. In all, 86% of subjects were satisfied or highly satisfied with the convenience of transdermal therapy; 87% reported that side effects were slightly or not bothersome; 65% indicated that transdermal patches were more convenient than oral therapy; and almost 60% preferred transdermal to oral therapy. In this study transdermal clonidine and oral verapamil were equally safe and effective. A substantial majority of patients preferred transdermal to oral therapy, and adherence to treatment was greater with transdermal therapy. 
Evaluation of the immune response in protection against experimental Streptococcus defectivus endocarditis. Immune protection from endocarditis caused by Streptococcus defectivus was examined by using a rabbit model. Previously we had demonstrated that immunization with nutritionally variant streptococci (NVS, now referred to as Streptococcus, species defectivus and adjacens) protected rabbits against endocarditis when they were challenged with the homologous strain. However, when high-titer immune globulin was transferred to nonimmunized rabbits, no protection was achieved. In the present study, immunosuppressive treatments were given to previously immunized rabbits, and alterations in the level of protection were determined by using the rabbit endocarditis model. Control-immunized rabbits as well as immunized rabbits receiving cyclosporin A or methylprednisolone treatments were protected from S. defectivus endocarditis at levels between 50% and 67%. Rabbits in each of these groups cleared S. defectivus organisms from the circulation by 3 hours after infection. Nitrogen mustard-treated rabbits (immunized or nonimmunized), however, were unable to clear S. defectivus organisms as efficiently (almost 100 times as many organisms in the blood when compared with other groups) by 3 hours, and all were susceptible to endocarditis. These data suggest that circulating phagocytes such as monocytes and granulocytes function to a certain extent in protection against S. defectivus endocarditis. Moreover, when neutrophils were transfused into granulocytopenic and monocytopenic rabbits, efficient clearance was prolonged, indicating that polymorphonuclear leukocytes were involved in the later (greater than 1 hour after infection) phase of protection. 
Fibrin glue sealing of pancreatic injuries, resections, and anastomoses. Fibrin glue made with highly concentrated human fibrinogen and clotting factors was evaluated as a means of preventing pancreatic fistulas in 15 patients operated on for traumatic and nontraumatic conditions. Fibrin glue was applied directly to penetrating pancreatic injuries, pancreatic suture and staple lines in patients treated by partial resection, and pancreaticointestinal anastomoses. Postoperatively, no patient developed pancreatic fistulas, pancreatic abscesses, or pseudocysts. Fibrin glue sealing of pancreatic injuries, resections, and anastomoses may aid in preventing fistulas after pancreatic surgery. Additional potential uses include the sealing of pancreatic biopsy sites and occlusion of the pancreatic duct in pancreatic transplantation. 
Improving survival in gastric cancer: review of operative mortality in English language publications from 1970. In this review of English language publications from 1970, operative mortality following surgery for gastric cancer has been analysed. Operative mortality has declined in series reporting operations in successive decades to 1970, 1980 and 1990. Series reporting patients having surgery for gastric cancer in the decade to 1990 show a mean operative mortality rate of 7.8 per cent (median 4.6 per cent). This improvement may have contributed to the declining mortality rates for gastric cancer in the face of unchanging surgical workload. Results of operations for gastric cancer should be reported in a standard manner. 
Chronic tuberculous empyema with bronchopleural fistula resulting in treatment failure and progressive drug resistance. We treated five patients with a past history of tuberculous pleural infection that led to chronic, quiescent, loculated empyema. Reactivation of TB was associated with formation of BPF and recovery of drug-susceptible Mycobacterium tuberculosis from sputum. All patients had recurrence of positive sputum cultures that yielded tubercle bacilli resistant to drugs they were receiving. The lungs demonstrated gross thickening with calcification of both visceral and parietal pleura. Two patients underwent retreatment chemotherapy followed by decortication-empyemectomy and lung resection surgery; both are now culture-negative for TB. One patient received retreatment chemotherapy but refused surgery; he remains clinically stable with negative sputum cultures. Two other patients' organisms became drug-resistant and they remain sputum-culture positive. We believe that thick, calcified pleural walls limit penetration of drugs into the infected empyema space, resulting in suboptimal drug concentrations and drug resistance. Intensified chemotherapy and surgical intervention should be considered in these cases. 
Prolonged QT interval and risk of sudden death in South-East Asian men. Sudden death in sleep occurs in substantial numbers among young men in South-East Asia. The frequencies of electrocardiographic abnormalities were measured in groups with varying risks of such sudden death. The mean heart-rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) was significantly (p less than 0.05) greater among 123 Laotian refugees in Thailand at high risk (405 [95% confidence interval 397-413] ms) than in 77 Laotian refugees in the United States at lower risk (364 [359-369] ms) and 199 non-Asian US residents at negligible risk (358 [354-362] ms). Among refugees in Thailand, prolonged QTc interval was associated with poor thiamine status and a history of seizure-like episodes in sleep. Thiamine deficiency may be a cause of prolonged QT interval and sudden death in this region. 
A variant of HLA-DR4 determines susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis in a subset of Israeli Jews. HLA-DR4 is associated with risk for developing rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in most populations. In Israeli Jews, in whom the Dw10 subtype of DR4 predominates, no association of RA with DR4 has been found. The inability to detect an association could be due to the high frequency of DR4-Dw10. We used DNA typing with amplification by the polymerase chain reaction and dot-blotting with allele-specific oligonucleotides to determine DR4 variants in 131 Jewish RA patients living in Israel and 134 controls. In both Ashkenazi Jews and non-Ashkenazi Jews, the rare variant Dw15 (previously identified in Japanese populations and in Japanese patients with RA) was found to be the main allele associated with the risk of developing RA (relative risk = 9.2, corrected P less than 0.001). However, this low-frequency allele could be responsible for susceptibility in only 11.5% of the patients. Susceptibility for rheumatoid factor-positive RA was associated with Dw4 and Dw15; the risk for rheumatoid factor-negative RA was associated only with Dw14. The distribution of the HLA-DQ alleles associated with DR4 showed that more than half of the RA patients with Dw15 also had HLA-DQw2. The frequencies of DQw7 and DQw8 were not different in RA patients compared with controls. The results suggest that, as in other populations, susceptibility for the development of RA in Israeli Jews is associated with DRB1 locus alleles of the DR4 group. 
Fatigue and depression in brain-injured patients correlated with quadriceps strength and endurance. Many brain-injured (BI) patients complain of persistent fatigue that may alter their lifestyles. In order to assess muscular strength and endurance after brain injury, 22 BI men, greater than 9 months postinjury and aged 20 to 51 years, were separated into two groups based on a complaint of fatigue (fatigue n = 13, nonfatigue n = 9); each performed one maximal isometric knee extension at 60 degrees and 20 maximal isokinetic contractions at 20 rpm using a Cybex II dynamometer. A third group of age-matched, able-bodied men (n = 10) were used as controls. A battery of tests assessing the presence of fatigue (using a symptom checklist and two rating scales), depression, anxiety, and health status were given at the time of isokinetic/isometric testing. The mean fatigue rating, a subjective score, for the fatigue group of BI subjects was significantly worse than the other groups (p less than .01). There was a positive correlation between clinically significant Zung depression scores and fatigue rating (r = .46) and between Zung anxiety scores and fatigue rating. The depression scores for those who complained of fatigue were significantly higher than the other groups (p less than .005). Maximal isometric contractions were no different among the three groups. The mean maximal isokinetic torque during the 20 repetitions was greater in controls than in the BI groups, but did not reach statistical significance (p less than .25). There were no significant declines in isokinetic torque in the 20 repetitions for any of the groups, and the fatigue index was nearly equal for all three groups. 
Choledochal cysts: classification and cholangiographic appearance. A classification scheme for choledochal cysts is outlined and their appearance on cholangiograms is illustrated. Choledochal cysts are uncommon anomalies of the biliary system and are probably congenital in origin. They are manifested by cystic dilatation of the extra- or intrahepatic biliary tree or both. The classification system described here divides choledochal cysts into one of five main types. The most common, which is manifested by cystic or focal segmental dilatation of the common bile duct or fusiform choledochal dilatation, accounts for 80-90% of cases. 
Expression of a polymorphic epithelial mucin antigen defined by the monoclonal antibody BC2 in ovarian carcinoma. Use of the BC2 antibody for the detection of micrometastases. The BC2 monoclonal antibody, which binds to an epitope on the peptide backbone of polymorphic epithelial mucin, was tested immunohistochemically for reactivity with epithelial ovarian carcinoma. This epitope was expressed in 90 of 91 malignant ovarian tumors; in 88% of these, more than 50% of the tumor cells expressed the epitope. In 94% of the positive tumors, the epitope was expressed on the cell membrane; in 56%, cytoplasmic expression was evident; and in 39%, secreted extracellular antigen was detected. Differences were not clearly discernible between dissimilar histotypes with respect to the percentage of cells expressing antigen and antigen localization. Thirteen of 19 benign ovarian cystadenomas also expressed the epitope, but staining was weak and restricted to the luminal surface of the cell membrane. A blind retrospective immunohistochemical analysis of all second-look laparotomy biopsy specimens from 20 patients also was performed. All four patients in whom microscopic disease was detected by standard pathologic assessment had BC2-positive metastases. Of seven patients in whom recurrent disease subsequently developed despite negative pathologic findings, four had biopsy specimens containing BC2 antigen-positive adenocarcinoma-like cells. Of the nine patients with negative results on operation and no recurrence, one had biopsy specimens containing BC2 antigen-positive adenocarcinoma-like cells. Mesothelial cells, although typically negative, expressed the epitope in one biopsy specimen, necessitating caution in the interpretation of positive cells. The BC2 antibody is reactive with most epithelial ovarian carcinomas and appears to be a useful tool for the detection of micrometastases. 
Multivessel PTCA using the hugging balloon technique based on single guide catheter and dual balloon-on-a-wire systems. For percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of oversized arteries, often-times a satisfactory dilatation cannot be achieved with conventional balloon systems due to the unavailability of adequately sized balloons. This fact has contributed to a higher restenosis rate for this group of patients. We were able to obtain a satisfactory dilatation result in an oversized right coronary artery with a shepherd's crook configuration and eccentric anatomy at the origin using two balloon-on-a-wire systems and an Amplatz type guiding catheter. Although such favorable dilatation of an oversized artery using this "hugging balloon technique" can be expected, issues do exist such as difficult maneuverability and estimation of the balloon size obtained through simultaneous dual balloon inflation wherein size does not simply equal the sum of the two balloon catheters. It is hoped that there will be further improvements of the technique and development of new systems. At this time, however, it is felt that this is the most effective and reasonable strategy to achieve a high chance of success in oversized vessel lesions. 
Comparison of the metabolic effects of continuous postoperative enteral feeding and feeding at night only. The effects of two different feeding patterns on oxygen consumption, nitrogen balance, blood biochemistry, and urinary catecholamine excretion were investigated over 5 d in patients after major head and neck surgery. Both groups of nine patients each were fed a regimen that provided 4.7 MJ on day 1 and 10 MJ on days 2-5 via a nasogastric tube by continuous infusion with an enteral feeding pump. One group was fed continuously for 24 h, the other was fed only at night, ie, from 1700 to 0900 the next morning. Oxygen consumption was significantly higher (P less than 0.01), nitrogen balance better (P less than 0.05), and urinary catecholamine excretion higher (P less than 0.05) in the 24-h-fed patients than in the night-fed patients. Postoperatively, feeding at night only is more energy efficient than is feeding continuously for 24 h, but is associated with poorer nitrogen balance. These differences may be mediated by sympathoadrenal mechanisms. 
Nonhealing leg ulcers: a manifestation of basal cell carcinoma. Seven patients with basal cell carcinomas presenting as nonhealing ulcers are reported. The importance of considering malignancy and taking biopsy specimens of leg ulcers that fail to respond to treatment is emphasized. 
Diagnostic value of transesophageal compared with transthoracic echocardiography in infective endocarditis. To compare the diagnostic value of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography in infective endocarditis, paired transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiograms were obtained prospectively for 66 episodes of suspected endocarditis in 62 patients. Echocardiographic results were compared with the presence or absence of endocarditis determined by pathologic or nonechocardiographic data from the subsequent clinical course. All echocardiograms were interpreted by an observer told only that the studies were from patients in whom the diagnosis of endocarditis was suspected. The diagnosis of endocarditis was eventually made in 16 of the 66 episodes of suspected endocarditis (14 by pathologic and 2 by clinical criteria). In 7 of 16 transthoracic and 15 of 16 transesophageal echocardiograms, endocarditis was diagnosed at a probability level of "almost certain," giving a sensitivity of 44% and 94%, respectively (p less than 0.01). For the remaining episodes, 49 of 50 transthoracic and all transesophageal studies yielded normal results, giving a specificity of 98% and 100%, respectively. This study suggests that transesophageal echocardiography is highly sensitive and specific for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis and significantly more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography. Although echocardiography cannot rule out endocarditis, the high diagnostic sensitivity of transesophageal echocardiography results in a low probability of the disease when the study yields negative results in a patient with an intermediate likelihood of the disease. 
Uhthoff's symptom in optic neuritis: relationship to magnetic resonance imaging and development of multiple sclerosis. Eighty-one patients with a first attack of isolated optic neuritis, 40 with Uhthoff's symptom (Group 1) and 41 without (Group 2), were studied. All had a neurovisual examination, 74 of 81 patients had the pattern visual evoked potential recorded at rest, and 43 had magnetic resonance imaging brain scans. The pattern visual evoked potential P100 latency was prolonged, Group 1 with a mean of 136 +/- 19 msec. Group 2 with a mean of 131 +/- 19 msec (control subjects, 102 +/- 5 msec; n = 84), and the P100 amplitude was reduced, without significant difference between the groups. Abnormal magnetic resonance imaging scans were present in significantly more patients in Group 1 (p less than 0.025). Treatment of optic neuritis with corticosteroids had no effect on the evolution or duration of Uhthoff's symptom. Overall, 35 of 81 (43%) patients, followed for a mean of 3.5 years, developed multiple sclerosis. The incidence was significantly greater in Group 1 (p less than 0.01). Uhthoff's symptom also correlated with a higher incidence of recurrent optic neuritis. We conclude that Uhthoff's symptom is a prognostic indicator for the early development of multiple sclerosis. 
Prostatic abscess due to histoplasma capsulatum in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We report a case of prostate abscess due to Histoplasma capsulatum in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The diagnosis and management are discussed, and the literature is reviewed. 
Malignancy and chronic wounds: Marjolin's ulcer. Malignancy in chronic wounds is not uncommon and has been reported as occurring in chronic scars of diverse causes. We report an unusual case of bilateral thermal injuries of the lower extremities that 40 years later presented as very large, painful, fungating wounds of both lower legs. After histologic confirmation of squamous cell carcinoma, eradication of the disease required amputations of both the lower extremities and reconstructive procedures. In addition, we discuss current theories regarding the mechanism of malignant degeneration in chronic wounds and evaluate treatment on the basis of information currently available in the literature. 
Isolated atrial infarction in a patients with single vessel disease of the sinus node artery. Atrial infarction is found in approximately 17 percent of autopsy-proven cases of myocardial infarction, but is a frequently missed clinical diagnosis. The antemortem diagnosis of atrial infarction occurring in the absence of ventricular infarction has not been previously reported. We present a patient with ischemic chest discomfort associated with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Electrocardiographic and enzymatic changes were consistent with atrial infarction. Cardiac catheterization demonstrated single vessel critical stenosis at the origin of the sinus node artery. Combined atrial and ventricular infarction occurs frequently and should be considered in the setting of paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias occurring early in the course of ventricular myocardial infarction. Lone atrial infarction is a rare but distinct clinical entity. The tetrad of typical ischemic chest discomfort, paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmia, P-Ta segment shifts, and elevated cardiac enzyme levels without evidence for ventricular infarction strongly suggests isolated atrial infarction. 
Dietary adjustments and nutritional therapy during treatment for oral-pharyngeal dysphagia. Dietary adjustments are an important part of the therapy for dysphagia. Once dysphagia is diagnosed, the patient must be nourished safely while being taught therapeutic and compensatory strategies for dealing with the swallowing disorder. The patient's nutritional status must be maintained despite any limitations on oral intake. Liquids may be thickened and the consistency of solid foods may be adjusted to ensure an adequate diet that is safe for the patient. When the patient cannot eat safely or take adequate amounts of food orally, an alternative feeding method should be instituted. 
Reproductive and menstrual factors and risk of peritoneal and ovarian endometriosis. OBJECTIVE: Between 1987 and 1989 data were collected to evaluate risk factors for pelvic endometriosis. DESIGN: A case-control study was conducted on 241 cases with laparoscopically or laparotomically confirmed peritoneal or ovarian endometriosis consecutively admitted to three teaching hospitals in Northern Italy. The control group consisted of 437 women admitted to hospitals for acute conditions covering similar catchment areas. RESULTS: Compared with nulliparous women, the risk of endometriosis decreased with increasing number of births: the point estimates were 0.4 and 0.3, respectively, for those with one and two or more births (X2(1) trend = 50.3, P less than 0.001). No relation emerged with age at first birth and spontaneous miscarriages. Relative to women whose menarche occurred at age 11 or younger, the risk of endometriosis was slightly lower in those who experienced later menarche, but the trend in risk was not significant. Women with irregular menstrual cycles showed a lower frequency of the disease (relative risk, 0.3; 95% confidence interval, 0.2 to 0.5). The role of various factors was largely similar for different disease locations (ovary, peritoneum, and both) and indication for diagnostic surgery (sterility, pelvic pain, and other reasons). CONCLUSIONS: This study found that parity and irregular/long menses lower the risk of endometriosis. These findings were similar in different subgroups of disease location and indication for surgery, giving strong evidence of the consistency of the general results. 
Benign arterial dissections of the posterior circulation. Four young adults with spontaneous dissection of the vertebrobasilar system are reported. Clinically, two patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage and two with brain-stem ischemia. In two cases of ruptured arterial dissection of the posterior cerebral artery, angiography demonstrated fusiform and "sausage-like" dilatation of the involved vessel. In two cases of occlusive dissection of the basilar artery, angiography revealed the typical "string sign." All four patients were treated conservatively: three survive in good clinical condition and one remains disabled. Follow-up angiograms showed spontaneous healing of the lesion with return to an almost normal arterial configuration in two cases; residual narrowing corresponding to the dissection was the most notable finding in the other two. It is recommended that, in a subset of neurologically stable patients, angiographic monitoring is undertaken to assess the tendency for spontaneous repair before surgical intervention is planned. 
Cystoscopic suction diathermy for the treatment of superficial bladder tumours. The treatment of superficial bladder tumours (Ta, T1) is a time-consuming exercise for urological surgeons and patients. A method of treating the tumours, whether primary or recurrent, by endoscopic suction diathermy has been developed. The technique significantly reduces the amount of tumour debris within the bladder during treatment as well as the amount of diathermy employed. By removing the free tumour cells in the irrigation fluid the risk of tumour cell implantation may be kept to a minimum. 
Right ventricular pacing and left ventricular filling pattern. An echo-Doppler study. The influence of right ventricular pacing on left ventricular filling has not been completely clarified. The aim of the study was to analyze the possible alteration in and effects on left ventricular filling resulting from right ventricular pacing. The study population consisted of two groups; group A was comprised of 12 patients with a spontaneous left bundle branch block, and group B had 12 patients without left bundle branch block. All the patients underwent an interrogation of the mitral valve inflow by Doppler echocardiography, in order to measure isovolumic relaxation time, early and late peak velocity (E and A wave), E/A ratio and deceleration time. The study was performed at spontaneous rhythm and after, inhibition of the pacemaker. In group A, there were no changes in the Doppler parameters when passing from a spontaneous to an 80/min electrically induced rhythm. Analysis of group B revealed a statistically significant lengthening of IVR and Dec t with electrical stimulation. No statistically significant differences were found when we compared the Doppler parameters of the two populations at the same pacing frequency. Right ventricular pacing causes interventricular asynchrony and abnormalities in diastolic filling times, which resulted in a lengthening of either IVR and Dec t, simulating a pattern of abnormal relaxation. 
Preoperative segmental localization of hepatic metastases: utility of three-dimensional CT during arterial portography. To evaluate the accuracy of a fast three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction technique in determining the segmental location of hepatic metastases, 14 patients (40 metastases) were prospectively investigated before surgery with dynamic two-dimensional (2D) computed tomography during sequential arterial portography (CTAP). All patients underwent subsequent hepatic tumor resection within 4 days. After computer-generated mapping of hepatic venous structures with high attenuation and metastases with low attenuation, 3D reconstruction was performed. Thirty-six of the 40 lesions (90%) were detected with 2D and 3D CTAP. The accuracy in determining the segmental location of hepatic metastases was 78% (28 of the 36 metastases) for 2D CTAP and 94% (34 of the 36 metastases) for 3D CTAP. The difference in localization rates between 2D CTAP and 3D CTAP was statistically significant. The 3D CTAP technique provides vital data unattainable with other imaging modalities that improve the preoperative assessment of the resectability of hepatic metastases and allows planning a safer surgical approach. 
Chorea-acanthocytosis: abnormal composition of covalently bound fatty acids of erythrocyte membrane proteins. Phospholipid class, peak profile of each phospholipid class, loosely bound fatty acids, covalently (tightly) bound fatty acids of the erythrocyte membranes, and plasma fatty acids were investigated using high-performance liquid chromatography in six patients with chorea-acanthocytosis and 14 age- and sex-matched normal control subjects. Additionally, six patients with Huntington's disease were included as disease control subjects in the study of covalently bound fatty acids. Study of covalently (tightly) bound fatty acids in erythrocyte membrane proteins after alkaline hydrolysis, hitherto undescribed in chorea-acanthocytosis, revealed that palmitic acid (C16:0) was significantly increased and stearic acid (C18:0) was decreased in the patients with chorea-acanthocytosis. Analyses for total covalently bound fatty acids disclosed that palmitic and docosahexaenoic (C22:6) acids were increased and stearic acid was decreased in chorea-acanthocytosis. Phospholipid class (phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingomyelin, and phosphatidylserine) and peak profile of each phospholipid class from the erythrocyte membranes did not differ between the patients with chorea-acanthocytosis and the control subjects. Of the loosely bound fatty acids, linoleic acid (C18:2) was significantly decreased in those with chorea-acanthocytosis, which seemed to be nonspecific. 
The anterior inferior cerebellar artery in the internal auditory canal. It has been proposed that compression of the auditory and vestibular nerve trunks by vascular loops might be the cause of otherwise unexplained hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo, as well as Meniere's disease. We studied the human temporal bone histological collection at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary to determine whether audiovestibular symptoms could be correlated with the presence of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery within the internal auditory canal. Anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops were found within the internal auditory canals of 12.3% of 1327 temporal bones, about half the number found when preparations with intact brains are studied. This difference can be attributed to avulsion of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery during removal of the brain at autopsy. There were 5 cases of unexplained unilateral hearing loss with anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops: 3 in the opposite ear and 2 in both ears. There were 2 cases with unilateral unexplained tinnitus with anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops: 1 in the involved ear and 1 in the opposite ear. A case with bilateral tinnitus had an anterior inferior cerebellar artery loop in 1 ear. There were 29 cases of vertigo with no peripheral histopathological correlate or central nervous system disorder; anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops were found in the internal auditory canals of 7 (12.5%) of the 56 ears in this group, which is not significantly different from the 12.3% incidence recorded for the entire collection. In 23 cases of unilateral Meniere's disease, there were anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops in the hydropic ears in 3, the opposite ear in 1, and both ears in 1. We can find no correlation between unexplained hearing loss, tinnitus, vertigo, or Meniere's disease and the presence of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery in the internal auditory canal. 
The I-Abm12 mutation, which confers resistance to experimental myasthenia gravis, drastically affects the epitope repertoire of murine CD4+ cells sensitized to nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Susceptibility to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG), which is induced in mice by injection of purified Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (TAChR), is influenced by the I-A locus products, which restrict presentation of AChR Th epitopes. The bm12 mutation of the I-Ab molecule in the C57BL/6 strain, which is highly susceptible to EAMG, yields the EAMG resistant mutant B6.C-H-2bm12 (bm12). We investigated here the consequences of the bm 12 mutation on the CD4+ response to the TAChR alpha subunit. Upon immunization with TAChR, CD4+ cells became sensitized to TAChR and anti-AChR antibodies were produced in both bm12 and C57BL/6 strains. Overlapping synthetic peptides, corresponding to the complete sequence of TAChR alpha subunit, were used to identify Th epitopes. CD4+ cells from C57BL/6 mice recognized peptides T alpha 150-169, T alpha 181-200, and T alpha 360-378. CD4+ cells from bm12 mice did not respond to any synthetic sequence. Upon injection of the three C57BL/6 Th epitope peptides, either individually or as a pool, CD4+ cells from C57BL/6 mice recognized each peptide and TAChR. Therefore they recognized epitopes similar or identical to those originated from TAChR processing. CD4+ cells from bm12 mice injected with the same peptides responded to T alpha 360-378 strongly, to a lesser extent to T alpha 181-200, never to peptide T alpha 150-169. Only CD4+ cells sensitized against the T epitope peptide T alpha 181-200 responded to TAChR. We tested if lack of response to T alpha 150-169, and the low response to T alpha 181-200, was due to inability of the I-Abm12 molecule to present the T epitope peptides. bm12 and C57BL/6 APC were used to present the T epitope peptides to specifically sensitized CD4+ cells from C57BL/6 mice. All T epitope peptides were presented by bm12 APC, although T alpha 150-169 was presented less efficiently than by C57BL/6 APC. Resistance to EAMG induced by the bm12 mutation may be due to the change in the epitope repertoire of AChR-specific Th cells, and lack of recognition of otherwise immunodominant Th epitopes. For at least one epitope this might be due to absence of potentially reactive, specific CD4+ clones. 
In vivo T-cell activation by staphylococcal enterotoxin B prevents outgrowth of a malignant tumor. Treatment of T cells with staphylococcal enterotoxins in vitro is known to activate T cells in a subset restricted manner based on beta-chain variable region (V beta) gene expression. In particular, staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) activates T cells bearing V beta 7 or V beta 8. We examined the ability of SEB to activate T cells in vivo. Treatment of C3H mice with doses of SEB ranging from 5 to 250 micrograms resulted in a dose-dependent activation of V beta 8+ T cells as reflected by increased interleukin 2 receptor (IL-2R) expression, proliferation to exogenous IL-2 and allogeneic cells, and production of gamma interferon. SEB also caused proliferation of the CD8+ subset of V beta 8+ cells in vivo. Thus, T-cell activation by SEB in vivo appears to be specific since V beta 2+ cells (non-SEB reactive) did not show increases in IL-2R expression similar to those seen with V beta 8+ cells nor did they proliferate. We then studied the ability of these activated cells to potentiate the immune response to a malignant progressor tumor. Treatment of C3H mice with 50 micrograms of SEB at the time of inoculation with tumor fragments resulted in a statistically significant decrease in the frequency of tumor outgrowth. These data demonstrate that treatment of C3H mice with SEB results in specific activation of V beta 8+ cells in vivo and that these activated cells are capable of preventing the outgrowth of a malignant tumor. 
Value of follow-up procedures in patients with large-cell lymphoma who achieve a complete remission. Salvage therapy for relapsed large-cell lymphoma (LCL) is more effective in patients with minimal disease, suggesting that early detection of relapse might increase the chance of long-term survival. To determine whether current follow-up procedures are effective in identifying preclinical disease, we analyzed patterns of relapse in 139 LCL patients who achieved a complete remission (CR) with high/moderate-dose methotrexate with leucovorin, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (M/m-BACOD). The timing and results of all posttreatment follow-up tests were examined in the 36 patients who relapsed from complete remission (CR) and 46 controls who remain in CR. Despite conscientious posttreatment follow-up, only two of the 36 relapses (6%) were detected before the development of symptoms. Sixty-seven percent of patients relapsed in new disease sites (42% in new and old sites, and 25% in new sites only). Consistent with this observation, the tests most sensitive to clinical relapse were those not targeted to specific sites of disease: gallium scan (sensitivity, 90%), physical examination (80%), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (65%). Of screening tests performed, only LDH was successful in detecting preclinical relapse, with a sensitivity of 42% and specificity of 85% for impending symptomatic relapse. These results indicate that conventional screening was ineffective in detecting preclinical relapse in LCL patients. We recommend prospective evaluation of a strategy that (1) screens with a frequency appropriate to a patient's risk of relapse, (2) uses sensitive test(s) not targeted to specific sites, and (3) limits aggressive screening to those high-risk patients eligible for potentially curative salvage therapy. 
Acute monarticular arthritis. Sleuthing out the cause. The diagnosis of acute monarthritis depends heavily on a thorough history and physical examination. When these are combined with a few diagnostic tests, such as synovial fluid analysis, x-ray studies, complete blood cell count, and common blood chemical analyses, the majority of cases can be correctly diagnosed and properly treated. 
Occult breast masses: use of a mammographic localizing grid for US evaluation. To determine if there was a problem of misidentification of mammographically detected masses with freehand ultrasound (US), the authors examined 50 mammographically distinct masses in 47 patients who were scheduled to undergo needle localization. In only six cases were the masses to be localized in an area of the breast that contained other mammographic opacities that could have led to problems of identification. The patients were first studied with freehand US. Results were then compared with those subsequently obtained with a fenestrated mammographic compression grid to guide the US evaluation. Needle localization was then performed. In five of 50 cases, masses detected with freehand US and initially believed to correspond to the mammographically detected mass were subsequently found to represent different areas of the breast when US was used with the compression grid. These results suggest that the potential for misidentification of masses with freehand US is real and that a mammographic grid localization device can be used to overcome this problem. 
New trends in gallstone management. Many new therapies for the management of gallstone disease have been pioneered in the past decade. The object of this review is to equip the surgeon with the answers to all of the questions a patient will ask about gallstone therapy; the review is therefore didactic as well as comprehensive. 
Acute asthma. Admission chest radiography in hospitalized adult patients. The utility of admission chest radiography has been controversial in the management of adult patients admitted to the hospital with acute asthma. We reviewed the impact of admission chest radiography on in-hospital management of 54 adult patients with acute asthma. Each patient was admitted after a failed 12-h course of bronchodilator therapy in the emergency ward. Major radiographic abnormalities were found in 20 (34 percent) of 58 occasions. These abnormalities included focal parenchymal opacities, IIM, enlarged cardiac silhouette, pulmonary vascular congestion, new solitary pulmonary nodule and pneumothorax. Subsequent antibiotic use correlated with radiographic focal opacities or IIM, even in afebrile patients, but did not correlate with elevated blood leukocyte count. Based on the evidence of in-hospital alteration of management independent of elevated blood leukocyte count and body temperature, we recommend that chest radiographs be obtained for all adult patients admitted because of acute asthma. 
Identification of different laminin binding proteins in basolateral cell membranes of human colorectal carcinomas and normal colonic mucosa. The adhesive properties of tumour cells to laminin, the major glycoprotein of basement membranes, play a crucial part in the complex process of tumour invasion and metastasis. We therefore investigated the expression of laminin binding proteins in isolated basolateral cell membranes of human colorectal carcinomas and the adjacent normal colonic mucosa. Cell membrane binding assays and immunoblotting experiments showed appreciable quantitative and qualitative differences in the expression of these proteins in neoplastic and normal tissue. Epithelial basolateral cell membranes of colorectal carcinomas bound five to eight times more radioactive labelled laminin than basolateral cell membranes of the adjacent normal colonic epithelium. The expression of laminin binding proteins with Mr 66,000-69,000 daltons corresponding to the so called 'Mr 67,000 dalton laminin receptor' was three to four times higher in colorectal carcinomas than in normal colonic epithelium. In addition, laminin binding proteins with higher molecular weights, which may be related to the family of integrins, were also increased in colorectal carcinomas. In particular, laminin binding proteins with Mr 180,000 daltons were exclusively expressed on neoplastic epithelial cells of human colorectal carcinomas. Our data suggest that certain classes of laminin binding proteins may be selectively expressed on colonic tumour cells, leading to an increased capacity for migration, invasion, and metastasis. 
Hyperthermia deaths in Finland in 1970-86. All cases in which hyperthermia had been determined as the basic cause of death during the period 1970-86 were collected from the records of the Central Statistical Office of Finland. Of the total of 230 cases, 228 were included in the present study; the two remaining victims died abroad, and no autopsy was performed in Finland. Most of the hyperthermia deaths occurred while the decedent was taking a sauna bath; most decedents were men aged 42-62 years. An increase in the total number of hyperthermia deaths, and of male victims, was noted from the beginning of the 1970s onward; the number of female victims remained at a relatively steady level throughout, with the exception of a slight rise in 1986. Acute alcohol consumption was detected in most of the victims; in some cases there was also a reference to chronic alcoholism or recent long-term heavy drinking. The findings suggest that in addition to the acute hazardous effect of ethanol on thermoregulatory mechanisms, the long-term consumption of alcohol may have promoted fatal hyperthermia in these subjects. 
Socioeconomic status and morbidity and mortality in hypertensive blacks. Despite an overall limited range of social and economic opportunities in the recent past, blacks of lower socioeconomic status have experienced marked excesses in hypertension-related burdens compared with their more advantaged peers: the incidence, prevalence, and severity of hypertension and its end-organ sequelae increased with decreasing educational achievement and the 5-year mortality was two times higher for black hypertensives of lower than higher educational achievement under conditions of usual care in U.S. communities in the 1970s. The Stepped Care program of antihypertensive pharmacologic therapy of the HDFP reduced all-cause mortality by 19% for black hypertensive men and 28% for black women. The HDFP also eliminated the association of mortality with educational achievement; the favorable impact of the program was greatest in the group at highest risk, blacks of lowest socioeconomic status. 
Diagnostic usefulness of renal scanning after angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors [editorial] Radioisotopic renal scanning after angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI) has proven to be an exciting area for research. The biologic activity of markers such as DTPA and hippuran, when combined with the physiological effects of ACEI, may provide noninvasive methods of diagnosing both renal artery stenosis and renovascular hypertension. Recent investigators have demonstrated that the sensitivities and specificities of these tests may vary widely; these differences are probably due to variations in study design, patient population, diagnostic criteria, and outcome measurements. We have reviewed these studies and discuss these possible sources of variation and their impact on the clinical usefulness of these diagnostic tests, especially in relation to the prevalence of disease in the population. Current results suggest that the post-ACEI DTPA scan is relatively accurate in the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis, with sensitivity generally greater than 90% and specificity around 95%. However, the best results in predicting the response to angioplasty or surgery in patients with renal artery stenosis have been with the use of post-ACEI hippuran in combination with furosemide (sensitivity, 96%; specificity, 95%). With confirmation of these findings and continued investigation, it is expected that accurate noninvasive tests will be available for widespread clinical use in the near future. 
Prevention of cisplatin-induced emesis: a double-blind multicenter randomized crossover study comparing ondansetron and ondansetron plus dexamethasone. Ondansetron (OND) is a new 5-HT3 receptor antagonist that give complete protection from emesis/nausea in approximately 50% of cisplatin (CDDP)-treated patients. To evaluate if dexamethasone (DEX) added to OND increases antiemetic efficacy, we carried out a double-blind randomized crossover study to compare the antiemetic activity of OND with OND plus DEX. One hundred two chemotherapy-naive patients (44 women and 58 men) scheduled to receive CDDP chemotherapy at doses greater than or equal to 50 mg/m2 entered the study. Eighty-nine patients completed both cycles with the following results: complete protection from emesis/nausea was obtained in 57/59 patients (64.0%/66.3%) with OND and in 81/79 (91.0%/88.8%) with OND plus DEX (P = .0005/P = .0021). At the end of the study, 53% of the patients expressed a treatment preference, and of these, 74% chose OND plus DEX compared with 26% who preferred OND alone, a statistically significant difference (P less than .003). Side effects were very mild and not significantly different between the two treatments. We conclude that OND plus DEX is more efficacious than OND in protecting patients from CDDP-induced emesis and nausea. 
Autoimmune MRL-1 pr/1pr mice are an animal model for the secondary antiphospholipid syndrome. Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus often develop thrombosis, recurrent abortion, thrombocytopenia and neurological disease, in association with serum antibodies against phospholipids, termed the secondary antiphospholipid syndrome. In our search for an animal model for the human antiphospholipid syndrome, we examined the MRL-1pr/pr mouse, which develops a lupus-like illness. These mice were found to have significantly elevated levels of serum antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) and thrombocytopenia compared to normal mice. By immunodiffusion, these antibodies are similar to human aPL. We observed histologic evidence of central nervous system thromboses as well as perivascular infiltrates of the choroid plexus. The high titers of serum aPL, thrombocytopenia, and thrombosis establish this strain as an animal model for the secondary antiphospholipid syndrome. 
Effects of splenectomy on pulmonary metastasis and growth of SC42 carcinoma transplanted into mouse liver. The carcinoma SC42 was transplanted into the liver of its syngeneic mice DS, and the immunological integrity of the spleen and the effects of splenectomy on the growth and pulmonary metastasis of the liver tumor were assessed. On day 7 after liver tumor transplantation, the natural killer (NK) activity of the splenocytes was significantly elevated; it subsequently decreased at a later stage of the tumor. The response of the splenocytes to PHA and Con-A decreased significantly from the early stage of the tumor. However, the mixed lymphocyte-tumor cell reaction increased significantly from day 14 to day 28. The survival rate of the mice, which had undergone simultaneous splenectomy and liver tumor transplantation, was significantly lower than that of sham-operated control mice. The number of pulmonary metastases in splenectomized mice was significantly greater than in the control mice. There was, however, no difference between the two groups in the weight of the liver tumor. By contrast, splenectomies performed 14 days before or 14 days after tumor transplantation had no significant influence on the survival of the mice. Splenectomies performed on day 0 and on day 3 after tumor transplantation significantly increased the number of pulmonary metastases. Furthermore, the intravenous injection of anti-asialo GM1 antisera on day 0 and day 3 significantly increased the number of pulmonary metastases, but injection of anti-Thy 1.2 antisera had no effect. These results suggest that splenic NK cells may play an important role in the suppression of pulmonary metastasis at early stages of the liver tumor. 
Serum endorphin levels in injured children. Plasma beta-endorphin levels (PBEL) are known to be elevated in acutely injured adults, but this has not been studied in pediatric patients with trauma. We measured PBEL in 46 children who sustained blunt injury. The mean acute PBEL was significantly elevated compared with the mean convalescent PBEL (40.5 +/- 29.0 versus 5.4 +/- 2.1 picomoles per liter, p less than 0.05). PBEL were highest in patients with multiple injuries (60.5 +/- 33.2 picomoles per liter, n = 16). PBEL were also elevated with isolated injuries of the head, face or limbs, and even with less severe injuries, namely multiple abrasions. PBEL were low in patients with abdominal (two patients) or spinal (two patients) injuries. Convalescent PBEL were consistently low. Severely injured patients (Injury Severity Score [ISS] of more than ten) had significantly elevated PBEL compared with patients with minor injuries (ISS less than 10), but some children with low ISS had elevated PBEL. The presence of head injury did not influence PBEL and there was no correlation between PBEL and systolic blood pressure. We have demonstrated that the PBEL is elevated in pediatric patients with trauma. 
Behavioral complications of drug treatment of Parkinson's disease. A variety of neuropharmacologic agents, including anticholinergic drugs, amantadine hydrochloride, levodopa, selegiline, bromocriptine, and pergolide, are now available for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Of patients treated with dopaminergic agents, 30% develop visual hallucinations, 10% exhibit delusions, 10% have euphoria, 1% have mania, 10% to 15% experience increased anxiety, 15% have confusional periods, and a few exhibit altered sexual behavior. Anticholinergic drugs have a greater tendency to produce confusional states than dopaminergic compounds. Elderly patients and those with underlying dementia are most likely to have untoward side effects with anti-parkinsonism treatment. Dosage reduction is the optimum management strategy, although anti-psychotic agents may be necessary in patients with delusions, and lithium may help control drug-induced mania. Dopaminergic agents share the property of stimulation of D2 dopamine receptors, and this action may play an essential role in mediating their neuropsychiatric effects. 
Predicting radioresistance in early glottic squamous cell carcinoma by DNA content. Nuclear DNA content has been implicated as a prognostic factor in an increasing number of tumor types. Current data on the role of DNA content in head and neck carcinoma are conflicting and incomplete. To evaluate the role of DNA content in predicting radioresistance, 29 patients with T1N0M0 squamous cell carcinoma of the glottic larynx who had undergone uniform curative radiotherapy and whose clinical outcome was known had flow cytometric analysis for DNA content performed on their tumors with paraffin-embedded archival tissues. Five aneuploid lesions and 24 diploid lesions were identified. All aneuploid lesions occurred in radioresistant tumors. The probability of an aneuploid tumor failing radiotherapy was highly significant at p = .016. No DNA discordance was found in a sampling of half of the radioresistant lesions' pretreatment and recurrent specimens, for a 100% predictive value of moderate statistical power. On the basis of these findings, patients with aneuploid T1 glottic lesions should be referred for primary surgical therapy. 
Evaluation and management of patients with both peripheral vascular and coronary artery disease. The prevalence of serious angiographic coronary artery disease ranges from 37% to 78% in patients undergoing operation for peripheral vascular disease. Clinical studies have demonstrated that cardiac outcome after peripheral vascular surgery is not adequately predicted by the standard criteria of history, physical findings and rest electrocardiogram. An adequate exercise work load, left ventricular function and thallium redistribution have proved important in perioperative risk stratification. The choice of a perioperative functional cardiac test depends on patient-related factors and the nature of the peripheral vascular operation. Although procedures involving aortic cross-clamping exert a greater hemodynamic stress than do carotid endarterectomy and femoral popliteal surgery, late cardiac morbidity and mortality are significant in all patients with atherosclerotic disease. The decision to proceed with preoperative coronary angiography and myocardial revascularization should be based primarily on indications independent of the peripheral vascular procedure. However, peripheral vascular surgery may influence the timing of myocardial revascularization. Patients with high risk or unstable coronary artery disease may benefit from preoperative coronary revascularization, although this hypothesis remains unproved. In all patients, careful monitoring during and after operation is essential. All patients with peripheral vascular disease should be considered to be at lifelong risk for fatal and nonfatal cardiac events and should undergo appropriate clinical and laboratory evaluation and be treated accordingly. 
Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma and papillomaviruses: two separate entities? Vulvar squamous precancers (vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia) are associated with sexual factors, cigarette smoking, and human papillomaviruses. However, epidemiologic studies of invasive carcinoma of the vulva have produced conflicting evidence for these associations, in part because of a strong association with vulvar inflammatory disease (dystrophies) in older women. We analyzed a series of 42 vulvar invasive carcinomas for papillomavirus nucleic acids by deoxyribonucleic acid-deoxyribonucleic acid in situ hybridization and correlated their presence with age, smoking history, and morphologic type. The carcinomas were divided into well-differentiated, moderately and poorly differentiated, and intraepithelial-like growth patterns, the latter composed of nests of invasive neoplastic epithelium with preserved cell polarity, similar to intraepithelial disease. Of the lesions studied, 28% were human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid-positive. Intraepithelial-like neoplasms segregated in women with a younger mean age (64 versus 73 years) than that of women with conventional squamous cell carcinoma and they more frequently had a history of cigarette smoking (88% versus 28%). Moreover, intraepithelial-like lesions contained human papillomavirus nucleic acids more frequently (67% versus 13%) when analyzed by in situ hybridization. These observations confirm the diverse nature of vulvar squamous cell carcinoma and may explain in part why conflicting results are obtained from studies investigating the role of sexual and viral factors in the genesis of vulvar cancer. They suggest that many invasive vulvar cancers may not be linked to papillomaviruses. 
Is there a premorbid personality typical for Parkinson's disease? For decades clinicians have postulated a characteristic preexisting personality in patients who develop Parkinson's disease (PD). They are described as moralistic, law-abiding, conscientious, and averse to risk-taking. The limited personality surveys tend to be confirmatory, but most of the literature is anecdotal or replete with unprovable psychodynamic postulates. In addition to an apparent stability of marriages and lack of alcoholism, patients with PD are less likely than controls to be smokers. It has been suggested that nicotine and its byproducts are not actually protective against PD, and it could be postulated that higher-than-average intrinsic dopamine may facilitate addiction. Smoking for the patient who is later to develop PD may be particularly unrewarding. In addition, the postulated personality for PD may predispose to hard work, perspiration, and increased exposure to putative trace elements in the water supply. 
Paralysis of the trapezius: a case report. A patient was referred to physical therapy for exercises to the right shoulder secondary to a peripheral nerve injury involving the spinal accessory nerve. A treatment program was designed to accommodate for lack of upward scapula rotation, which is necessary for elevation of the upper extremity above shoulder level. During the course of two and a half years of care, a variety of associated problems were encountered. There was no apparent nerve regeneration, and the patient was left with limited mobility of the affected upper extremity. 
Randomised, controlled trial of effectiveness of ampicillin in mild acute respiratory infections in Indonesian children. The recommended treatment for mild acute respiratory infections (ARI) in children is supportive care only, but many physicians, especially in developing countries, continue to prescribe antibiotic treatment because they believe it prevents progression to more severe ARI. To find out whether ampicillin treatment conferred any benefit over supportive care alone, a randomised, controlled trial was carried out among 889 children (under 5 years) with mild ARI in Indonesia. 447 were randomly allocated ampicillin (25-30 mg/kg body weight three times daily for 5 days) plus supportive care (continued breastfeeding, clearing of the nose, and paracetamol to control fever); 442 were allocated supportive care only. The treatment groups were almost identical after randomisation in terms of age, sex, level of parental education, history of measles immunisation, and fever. After 1 week the percentages cured were nearly identical (204 [46%] ampicillin; 209 [47%] control), as were the percentages of cases progressing to moderate ARI (56 [13%] vs 53 [12%]). The effect of treatment was not modified by age, sex, measles immunisation status, or the educational level of the parents. At the 2-week follow-up, the percentages cured were 62% (277) in the ampicillin group and 58% (256) in the control group; 14% of both groups had progressed to moderate ARI; and 24% (107) and 28% (123), respectively, still had mild ARI. None of the differences in outcome between the ampicillin and control groups was statistically significant. Thus, ampicillin plus supportive care offers no benefit over supportive care alone for treatment of mild ARI in young Indonesian children. 
Prevention of gram-positive infections after bone marrow transplantation by systemic vancomycin: a prospective, randomized trial. Gram-positive bacteria are the most commonly isolated organisms after bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and severe streptococcus septicemia has been reported. In order to evaluate the benefit of a gram-positive prophylaxis after BMT, we conducted a prospective, randomized trial of systemic vancomycin among 60 patients undergoing BMT for hematologic malignancies. Patients were randomized to receive (n = 30) or not receive (n = 30) prophylactic vancomycin 15 mg/kg every 12 hours from day -2 until resolution of neutropenia or until the first episode of fever. All patients were treated in laminar air-flow rooms, received sterile diet, total gut decontamination, and had central venous catheters placed surgically. Vancomycin was found to be highly effective in preventing gram-positive infections that occurred in 11 of 30 patients in the control group versus zero of 30 in the vancomycin group (P less than .002). All gram-positive infections occurring in the control group were symptomatic (nine septicemia and two local infections), and one patient with Streptococcus septicemia died with pneumonia. Thus, gram-positive prophylaxis was found to decrease infection morbidity after BMT. Moreover, the number of days with fever (P less than .001), and empiric antibiotic therapy (P less than .01) was reduced without added toxicity or cost. This study confirmed the high prevalence of gram-positive infections after BMT and emphasized the clinical benefits of an adapted prophylaxis. 
Aphthoid ulceration of the colon in strongyloidiasis. In humans, infestation with Strongyloides stercoralis most commonly involves the upper small intestine. We describe a 65-yr-old woman who presented with abdominal pain, weight loss, and hypoalbuminemia, and was found at colonoscopy to have patchy erythema with aphthoid ulcers scattered throughout the large intestine proximal to the splenic flexure. Biopsy of involved areas and examination of the colonic effluent revealed S. stercoralis larvae. Previous reports of colonic involvement with this nematode, and the differential diagnosis of aphthoid ulcers, a newly described lesion associated with S. stercoralis infestation, are discussed. 
Metastatic carcinoma in the neck: a clinical, radiological, scintigraphic and pathological study. This study was undertaken to compare clinical evaluation of the neck with 99mTc(v) DMSA planar scintigraphy and computerized tomography (CT) in patients with head and neck carcinoma. Twenty-six patients were studied and in all but one the neck was previously untreated. A total of 31 neck dissections were performed and the specimens examined histopathologically. CT was approximately as accurate (71%) as clinical examination (68%) and more accurate than 99mTc(v) DMSA planar scintigraphy (48%) in predicting which necks contained metastatic carcinoma. Overall, 13% of necks had their staging correctly changed by 99mTc(v) DMSA scintigraphy compared with 10% for CT. Although scintigraphy upstaged 13% of clinically N0 necks compared to 6% for CT, it was less sensitive and specific than either clinical examination or CT. 99mTc(v) DMSA planar scintigraphy has no role to play in the investigation of patients with metastatic carcinoma to include the clinically N0 neck. 
Coronary-subclavian steal corrected with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. We describe a case of coronary-subclavian steal syndrome treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. A 58-year-old female who had her first coronary bypass operation 6 years previously and a second operation 3 years previously involving the left internal mammary artery and right gastroepiploic artery, developed unusual angina on effort characterized by left precordial pain, pain in the left shoulder and arm, tinnitus and dizziness. Angiography revealed retrograde flow to the left subclavian artery via the left vertebral artery and left internal mammary artery. Severe stenosis of the left subclavian artery was demonstrated at its ostium. Restoration of antegrade flow to the vertebral artery and left internal mammary artery by transluminal angioplasty resulted in complete resolution of these symptoms. 
Effects of lower limb unloading on skeletal muscle mass and function in humans. A model to simulate effects of microgravity on skeletal muscle mass and function in humans has been developed. Unilateral lower limb unloading that allowed ankle, knee, and hip joint mobility was conducted in six healthy men by suspending one lower limb and having the subjects walk on crutches. They performed maximal unilateral concentric or eccentric quadriceps actions at different angular velocities before and after 4 wk of suspension and after 4 days and after 7 wk of uncontrolled recovery. Peak torque (PT) and angle-specific torque (AST) were measured. Muscle cross-sectional area (CSA) and radiological density (RD) of the thigh were assessed by means of computerized tomography. Concentric and eccentric PT and AST across speeds decreased (P less than 0.05) by 22 and 16%, respectively, in response to unloading. At 4 days of recovery PT (-11%) and AST (-7%) were still lower (P less than 0.05) than before. Muscle CSA and RD decreased (P less than 0.05) by 7 and 6%, respectively. After 7 wk of recovery PT, AST, CSA, and RD had returned to normal. The control limb showed no changes over the experimental period except for a 6% decrease (P less than 0.05) in RD. It is suggested that this human model of unloading could serve to simulate effects of microgravity on skeletal muscle mass and function because reductions in muscle mass and strength were of similar magnitude to those produced by bed rest. 
Serum antibodies against respiratory tract viruses in episodes of acute otitis media. Although the findings of epidemiological studies have suggested viral respiratory tract infection (RTI) to be crucially involved in the development of acute otitis media (AOM), the relationship between AOM and viral RTI remains unclear. Serum samples, obtained in the acute and convalescent phases of 57 AOM episodes (in 35 children during the first three years of life) were analysed for IgG antibodies against influenza A viruses, influenza B viruses, parainfluenza virus type 1, respiratory syncytial virus and adenoviruses. One third of the AOM episodes (18/57) could be related to viral RTI, as evidenced by significant increases in viral serum antibody activity. Treatment failure occurred in four AOM episodes where increases in serum viral antibody activity were noted. In three of these failures, antibiotic treatment was unsuccessful despite the bacterial strains not being resistant to the drug used. This suggests that concomitant viral infection may be a determinant of treatment outcome in some AOM episodes. 
Pelvic abscesses: CT-guided transrectal drainage. Percutaneous drainage of pelvic abscesses has been performed by using a number of approaches, including transabdominal, transgluteal, and transrectal. The authors present a technique for the drainage of pelvic abscesses by a transrectal route with use of computed tomographic (CT) guidance. Equipment for the technique included a plastic introducer tube, standard needle, angiographic guide wire, and pigtail catheters. The pelvic abscesses of 10 patients (six after appendectomy, three after colon resection, one secondary to diverticulitis) were successfully drained by using the new technique. No complications or recurrences were experienced. After initial catheter placement, patients were treated with use of gravity drainage and appropriate antibiotics. Success of drainage was determined with sequential CT scans. Compared with the transgluteal approach, the transrectal approach offered increased patient comfort and minimal risk of potential complications such as injury to the sciatic nerve or tracking of the abscess. Use of the plastic introducer tube promoted operator safety by protecting the guiding finger. On the basis of this initial series, CT-guided transrectal drainage appears to be an effective and well-tolerated method for the drainage of pelvic abscesses. 
Frequent hypoxemia and apnea after sedation with midazolam and fentanyl. More than 80 deaths have occurred after the use of midazolam (Versed), often in combination with opioids, to sedate patients undergoing various medical and surgical procedures. We investigated the respiratory effects of midazolam (0.05 mg.kg-1) and fentanyl (2.0 micrograms.kg-1) in volunteers. The incidence of hypoxemia (oxyhemoglobin saturation less than 90%) and apnea (no spontaneous respiratory effort for 15 s) and the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide were evaluated. Midazolam alone produced no significant respiratory effects. Fentanyl alone produced hypoxemia in half of the subjects and significant depression of the ventilatory response to CO2, but did not produce apnea. Midazolam and fentanyl in combination significantly increased the incidence of hypoxemia (11 of 12 subjects) and apnea (6 of 12 subjects), but did not depress the ventilatory response to CO2 more than did fentanyl alone. Adverse reactions linked to midazolam and reported to the Department of Health and Human Services highlight apnea- and hypoxia-related problems as among the most frequent adverse reactions. Seventy-eight per cent of the deaths associated with midazolam were respiratory in nature, and in 57% an opioid had also been administered. All but three of the deaths associated with the use of midazolam occurred in patients unattended by anesthesia personnel. We conclude that combining midazolam with fentanyl or other opioids produces a potent drug interaction that places patients at a high risk for hypoxemia and apnea. Adequate precautions, including monitoring of patient oxygenation with pulse oximetry, the administration of supplemental oxygen, and the availability of persons skilled in airway management are recommended when benzodiazepines are administered in combination with opioids. 
Induction of sustained patency after clot-selective coronary thrombolysis with Hybrid-B, a genetically engineered plasminogen activator with a prolonged biological half-life. BACKGROUND. Despite the utility of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) in eliciting coronary thrombolysis clinically, early reocclusion remains a problem, occurring despite anticoagulation in 5-30% of patients with initially successful recanalization. This study evaluated the utility of Hybrid-B, a molecular variant of t-PA with a prolonged half-life in the circulation, in eliciting coronary thrombolysis and maintaining patency in the presence of a continuing thrombogenic stimulus. METHODS AND RESULTS. In intact, anesthetized dogs, either 18 mg Hybrid-B over 30 minutes (n = 15) or 50 mg t-PA (Activase) over 60 minutes (n = 8) was administered starting 60 minutes after left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion was induced with a thrombogenic copper coil. Time to lysis averaged 54 +/- 26 (means +/- SD) minutes and 64 +/- 34 minutes with Hybrid-B and t-PA, respectively (p = NS). When Hybrid-B was administered as a bolus (20 mg over 1 minute) to induce a high initial concentration in blood, time to lysis was shortened markedly and averaged 15 +/- 5 minutes. Dogs given Hybrid-B by either infusion or bolus exhibited prolonged time to reocclusion (337 +/- 192 minutes compared with 192 +/- 125 minutes in dogs given t-PA, p less than 0.03), reflecting maintenance of a subthrombolytic but persistently active concentration of activator in blood. Despite the persistence of Hybrid-B in blood, concentrations of fibrinogen and alpha 2-antiplasmin were not depleted markedly and remained at 77 +/- 25 and 56 +/- 24%, respectively, of control values. CONCLUSIONS. Thus, Hybrid-B, a novel variant of t-PA with unique pharmacokinetic properties, elicits prompt, sustained, and clot-selective coronary thrombolysis. 
Recommendations for collection of laboratory specimens associated with outbreaks of gastroenteritis. Recent discoveries have implicated a number of "new" (i.e., previously unrecognized) infectious agents as important causes of outbreaks of gastroenteritis. Unfortunately, the ability to detect these agents in an outbreak can be limited by two factors: 1) the lack of appropriate assays-many of which are still in developmental stages and are not readily available to clinical laboratories, and 2) inadequately or improperly collected specimens. At CDC, many newly developed assays are being used for research and for outbreak investigations. The information in this report is especially intended for public health agencies that collaborate with CDC in investigating outbreaks of gastroenteritis. The report provides an update on guidelines and recommendations for the proper collection of specimens to be sent to CDC, gives general background information concerning some recently discovered pathogens, lists some of the tests available at CDC, and provides a list of CDC contacts. The guidelines and the general information provided on causes of outbreaks of gastroenteritis can be also used by public health workers for investigations when specific testing is available and appropriate. 
Root of the superior mesenteric artery in pancreatitis and pancreatic carcinoma: evaluation with CT To determine if changes involving the root of the superior mesenteric artery are specific for neoplasm, the authors retrospectively reviewed 173 computed tomographic (CT) examinations of patients with proved pancreatitis (103 examinations) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (70 examinations). Streaky infiltration of the fat surrounding the root was seen in 27 of 56 examinations of acute pancreatitis, in four of 24 examinations of chronic pancreatitis, in 12 of 23 examinations of pancreatitis complicated by abscess, and in 25 of 70 examinations of pancreatic carcinoma. Periarterial lymph nodes were visible in 14 with acute pancreatitis, in three with chronic pancreatitis, in six with pancreatic abscess, and in 11 with pancreatic carcinoma. A focal mass extended to within 1 cm of the root in 10 with acute pancreatitis, in two with chronic pancreatitis, in four with pancreatic abscess, and in 24 with pancreatic carcinoma; the mass obliterated the periarterial fat in seven with acute pancreatitis, in one with pancreatic abscess, and in 18 with pancreatic carcinoma. Circumferential encasement occurred in one with chronic pancreatitis, in four with pancreatic abscess, in 14 with pancreatic carcinoma, and in none with acute pancreatitis; nearly all cases of encasement revealed loss of periarterial fat. Thus, these indicators are not specific for neoplasm. 
The IgE and IgG subclass antibody response to foods in babies during the first year of life and their relationship to feeding regimen and the development of food allergy. This follow-up study of 191 babies investigated the development of food allergy in an unselected population and its relationship to total and antigen-specific IgE and IgG subclass levels. Sensitization to egg, as indicated by a positive skin test or RAST, was found in 5% of 1-year-old babies, but none of the babies in this series fulfilled the clinical criteria for immediate-type milk allergy. For both bovine casein (CAS) and egg albumin, the IgG response was largely restricted to IgG1 in contrast to the predominant IgG4 response to these antigens that is found in adults. The level of IgG4, but not IgG1, antibody to CAS and ovalbumin (OV) was lower in some of the babies compared with that of their mothers (N = 166; p less than 0.05, Student's paired t test). However, there was no difference in the total serum IgG subclass levels between mothers and babies. These results demonstrate that, in the population of babies studied, (1) type I hypersensitivity to egg occurred in 5% of 1-year-old babies, (2) the predominant IgG subclass of antibodies to CAS and OV in babies is IgG1, and (3) in the 22% of babies, there was substantially (greater than 1000-fold) less IgG4 antibody to CAS and OV than in their mothers, suggesting specific exclusion of some IgG4 antibodies. 
Comparison of coronary and myocardial morphologic findings in patients with and without thrombolytic therapy during fatal first acute myocardial infarction. The TIMI Investigators. The hearts of 61 patients (39 men aged 64 +/- 11 years) who died from 5 hours to 42 days (median 3 days) after a fatal first acute myocardial infarction without having undergone percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery were studied to compare clinical and cardiac morphologic features of patients receiving thrombolytic therapy with tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) to those not receiving thrombolytic therapy. Comparison of findings in the 23 patients who received t-PA intravenously 3 +/- 1 hours after onset of symptoms, with the 38 patients who did not, showed similar baseline characteristics with respect to: age, gender, history of hypertension; location of the infarct; heart weight; severity and numbers of coronary arteries narrowed; and frequencies of plaque rupture, plaque hemorrhage and coronary thrombi. Among the patients receiving t-PA, however, there was a greater frequency of platelet-rich (fibrin-poor) thrombi in the infarct-related coronary arteries (6 of 11 vs 4 of 25 thrombi; p = 0.02), more nonocclusive than occlusive thrombi (6 of 11 vs 4 of 25 thrombi; p = 0.02), and a lower frequency of myocardial rupture (left ventricular free wall or ventricular septum) (5 of 23 [22%] vs 18 of 38 [46%]; p = 0.045). 
Successful management of CMV pneumonia in a mechanically ventilated patient. We report a case of severe respiratory failure due to cytomegalovirus pneumonitis in a patient who underwent an allogeneic bone marrow transplant, who was successfully treated with the combination of ganciclovir and high-dose intravenous immune globulin. We also reviewed the rationale for the use of combination therapy with an antiviral agent and immunotherapy. Because of the bone marrow toxicity of ganciclovir, an aggressive diagnostic approach, including bronchoalveolar lavage and open lung biopsy, may be necessary to establish a definitive diagnosis prior to institution of therapy. 
Are concomitant surgical procedures acceptable in patients undergoing cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism? Cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism is an extremely safe procedure with essentially no operative mortality or morbidity and with success rates approaching 98%. These results have encouraged experienced surgeons to perform other surgical procedures concomitantly with cervical exploration with use of the same general anesthetic agent. This retrospective study was performed to assess the safety and efficacy of this practice. At our institution, 117 patients underwent cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism in combination with an additional surgical procedure, including breast (25), biliary (21), gynecologic (19), intra-abdominal (18), and cardiothoracic (6) operations. The mean operative time was 155 minutes, and the mean duration of hospitalization was 7.6 days. Postoperatively, 115 patients (98%) were normocalcemic. Nine complications (mostly minor), which occurred in eight patients, related primarily to the concomitant surgical procedure. No operative mortality occurred. If performed by experienced surgeons in carefully selected patients, cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism in combination with another elective operation is safe and cost-effective. 
Needle aspiration of extrathoracic metastases from bronchogenic carcinoma. Five patients with suspected metastatic bronchogenic carcinoma underwent needle aspiration of peripheral metastatic lesions instead of a diagnostic bronchoscopy. Aspirates were from the soft tissue of the proximal arm (three patients), an axillary mass (one patient), and a skin nodule (one patient). Two patients had non-small cell carcinoma, two had small cell carcinoma, and one patient had a nondiagnostic aspirate. The procedure had insignificant morbidity, was easy to perform, quickly established a diagnosis of metastatic disease, and obviated the need for a more invasive diagnostic procedure in four of the five patients. 
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome secondary to L5 radiculopathy. A 47-year-old woman developed radiating right lower extremity pain with weakness in the L5 myotomes. A CT scan, subsequent myelogram, and postmyelogram CT scan were reported as negative. Two months of bed rest diminished the radiating symptoms, but the weakness persisted. Three months post onset a severe burning dysesthesia developed in the right foot, and the patient became unable to bear weight on that extremity. Physical examination revealed 4-/5 weakness of the ankle dorsiflexors, foot evertors, toe extensors, and hip abductors. The entire right foot was swollen and had a red, mottled discoloration. An EMG was equivocal, and a three-phase bone scan was positive in the right foot in all three phases, which is characteristic of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. A repeat CT scan and review of the earlier scans revealed a high lateral disc fragment at the exit foramina of the L5 nerve root. Upon laminectomy, a free disc fragment at the exit foramina was removed, and the patient's symptoms resolved completely. Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome is very rarely reported in association with lumbar radiculopathy. This case emphasizes the need to carefully evaluate the far lateral exit foramina on CT scan in patients with symptoms of radiculopathy. Myelogram is characteristically normal in these cases. 
Safety and efficacy of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. The risks and long-term outcome after 845 elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties (PTCA) in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction (ejection fraction less than or equal to 40%) were examined. Procedural results were compared with 8,117 consecutive procedures in patients with ejection fractions greater than 40%. The patients with LV dysfunction were older (63 vs 60 years, p less than 0.01), had a greater incidence of prior myocardial infarction (84 vs 45%, p less than 0.001), prior bypass surgery (39 vs 21%, p less than 0.001), 3-vessel disease (62 vs 33%, p less than 0.001), and class IV angina (48 vs 41%, p less than 0.01) than the control group. Angiographic success was lower (93 vs 95%, p less than 0.01), and overall procedural mortality was increased ( 4 vs 1%, p less than 0.001) in the study group. Emergency surgery rates were identical (2%). No significant difference was found in rates of nonfatal Q-wave myocardial infarction (2 vs 1%). At mean follow-up of 33.5 months, 15% of the patients with LV dysfunction required late bypass surgery, 27% underwent repeat PTCA, and 59% were angina free. Actuarial survival at 1 and 4 years was 87 and 69%, respectively. Cox regression analysis identified 3-vessel disease, age greater than or equal to 70 years, class IV angina and incomplete revascularization as correlates of long-term mortality. These data suggest that PTCA may be an effective treatment for coronary artery disease in patients with LV dysfunction. 
Immunocytochemical localization of phospholipase C-gamma in rat embryo fibroblasts. Rat embryo fibroblasts (REF52) exhibit a distinctive, transformation-sensitive distribution of alpha-protein kinase C (alpha-PKC). Receptor-mediated activation of phospholipase C (PLC)-gamma generates diacylglycerol, the major cellular activator of PKC. Immunofluorescence techniques were used to investigate the subcellular localization of two PLC isozymes (PLC-gamma and PLC-delta) in normal and simian virus 40-transformed REF52 cells to determine (i) if PLC colocalizes with alpha-PKC and (ii) if PLC isozyme distribution is sensitive to transformation. PLC-delta was not detected in either cell type. In REF52 cells, PLC-gamma was associated with the actin cytoskeleton and was evenly distributed along the length of the actin microfilaments. PLC-gamma was coincident with alpha-PKC at the points where the filaments are anchored to the membrane (i.e., the focal contacts). Cytoskeletal association of PLC-gamma was not transformation sensitive, although the actin cytoskeleton was more disordered in simian virus 40-transformed cells. In REF52 cells, platelet-derived growth factor induced tyrosine phosphorylation of both soluble and cytoskeletal PLC-gamma. Tyrosine phosphorylation of PLC-gamma did not seem to be a determinant of its subcellular localization, but there was a detectable increase in cytoskeleton-associated PLC-gamma in response to platelet-derived growth factor treatment. 
Massive ossifying fibroma of the temporal bone. Ossifying fibromata are rare lesions of the temporal bone. Because the tumors tend to progress and can become clinically massive, early complete resection is advised whenever feasible to prevent clinically evident recurrences and potentially life-threatening complications. 
A simple technique for closure of a palatal fistula using a conchal cartilage graft. A simple technique for closure of a palatal fistula using a conchal cartilage graft as a substitute for nasal lining flaps is reported. This graft simplifies the repair of the palatal fistula and protects the suture line of the oral covering flaps from recurrence. 
Prospective evaluation of maternal serum human chorionic gonadotropin levels in 3428 pregnancies. As part of a multicenter prospective study, second-trimester human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha-fetoprotein concentrations were evaluated. Data included maternal age, human chorionic gonadotropin level, alpha-fetoprotein level, weight, race, and pregnancy outcome of 3428 pregnancies at between 15 and 20 weeks' gestation. The results of the study indicate that human chorionic gonadotropin levels decrease as maternal weight increases, that weight-adjusted human chorionic gonadotropin levels for Oriental and black women are higher than for white or Hispanic women, and that twin pregnancies have higher human chorionic gonadotropin levels than singleton pregnancies. Of 255 pregnancies that did not have normal outcomes, 54 (21.2%) had human chorionic gonadotropin levels greater than 2.0 multiples of the median and 26 (10.2%) had alpha-fetoprotein levels greater than 2.5 multiples of the median. Of 11 pregnancies with fetal aneuploidy, 6 (54.5%) had human chorionic gonadotropin levels greater than 2.0 multiples of the median. It is concluded that in human chorionic gonadotropin screening programs for fetal Down syndrome, weight and race adjustments are necessary for accurate risk assessment. 
Single motor end-plates in myasthenia gravis and LEMS at different firing rates. The jitter and frequency of blocking was studied at single motor end-plates in 10 patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and in a patient with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), using single fiber EMG (SFEMG) with axonal microstimulation at rates varying from 0.5 Hz to 20 Hz. While some myasthenic motor end-plates showed lowest degrees of transmission disturbance at the lowest rates and most pronounced abnormality at the highest rates of stimulation, over one-half were most abnormal at intermediate rates and improved at higher rates. In 1 patient, all end-plates behaved in this way. On the other hand, all end-plates in the LEMS patient showed the expected improvement of the abnormal jitter and blocking on increasing the stimulation rate. It is argued that improvement of jitter and blocking at higher rates, unless dramatic, does not necessarily suggest a presynaptic abnormality. 
Fever: management and self-medication. Results from a Norwegian population study. A representative sample of the Norwegian population was interviewed in 1988 as part of a monthly national opinion poll to investigate lay management and self-medication of fever. Six hundred and nineteen women and 592 men over the age of 15 were interviewed in their homes. Approximately one-fifth reported inappropriate measuring of body temperature. A variety of management and self-medication was found. In cases of common cold or influenza with fever, 35% would use antipyretics. Forty per cent would start to use antipyretics at a temperature below 39.0 degrees C. Forty-four per cent did not know any antipyretic brand names at all. The results indicate a need for more definite and consistent information to make fever management and self-medication more rational. Such information should be discussed and given by general practitioners, nurses at child welfare centers and pharmacists. 
Microscopic hematuria and calculus-related ureteral obstruction. The evaluation of patients with ureteral calculi in the emergency department has historically included urinalysis (UA) and intravenous pyelograms (IVP). This retrospective study was done to determine if a statistically significant relationship existed between the degree of calculus-related ureteral obstruction, proven by IVP, and the presence or absence of microscopic hematuria. Urine red blood cells were recorded as less than 3 rbc/hpf (negative) or greater than or equal to 3 rbc/hpf (positive). IVPs were recorded as nonsevere or severe. IVP criteria were based on the presence or absence of extravasation, greater than 2-hour ureteral filling times, and a numerical scoring system of 1 to 4 for ureteral or calyceal dilatation and nephrogenic effect. Eighty-nine men (72%) had non-severe obstructions and 34 (28%) had severe obstructions. Twenty-five women (68%) had nonsevere obstructions and 12 (32%) had severe obstructions. Of the 28 patients with normal UAs, 11 had severe ureteral obstructions and 17 had nonsevere ureteral obstructions. There were no statistically significant differences between the presence or absence of significant microscopic hematuria and the presence or absence of severe ureteral obstruction. Microscopic hematuria is neither sensitive nor specific in determining the degree of calculus-related ureteral obstruction. 
Prolonged QT interval and risk of sudden death in South-East Asian men. Sudden death in sleep occurs in substantial numbers among young men in South-East Asia. The frequencies of electrocardiographic abnormalities were measured in groups with varying risks of such sudden death. The mean heart-rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) was significantly (p less than 0.05) greater among 123 Laotian refugees in Thailand at high risk (405 [95% confidence interval 397-413] ms) than in 77 Laotian refugees in the United States at lower risk (364 [359-369] ms) and 199 non-Asian US residents at negligible risk (358 [354-362] ms). Among refugees in Thailand, prolonged QTc interval was associated with poor thiamine status and a history of seizure-like episodes in sleep. Thiamine deficiency may be a cause of prolonged QT interval and sudden death in this region. 
Antepartum testing in the hypertensive patient: when to begin. Antepartum testing has been recommended for patients whose pregnancies are complicated by hypertension. Although this is considered accepted practice, there are little data available to help the clinician know when to start testing. To help answer this question in patients with chronic hypertension and nonproteinuric pregnancy-induced hypertension, we reviewed the results of all antepartum tests between 1976 and 1987 in patients with these diagnoses. The primary mode of surveillance in the majority of our patients was the contraction stress test. We determined when patients first had positive contraction stress test results and when intervention occurred because of an abnormal antepartum test result. There were a total of 917 patients tested with these diagnoses. Fifty-three (5.8%) of these patients had at least one positive contraction stress test result. Twenty-two patients were delivered of infants before 35 weeks' gestation because of abnormal antepartum test results. Those with early intervention (less than 35 weeks' gestation) could not be differentiated from those with later intervention (greater than or equal to 35 weeks' gestation) by maternal age, diastolic blood pressure, or systolic blood pressure at the time of testing. The majority of patients who were delivered of infants before 35 weeks' gestation had a concomitant diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus, intrauterine growth retardation, diabetes mellitus, or superimposed preeclampsia. On the basis of when compromise was evident, patients with these diagnoses may require testing to be started as early as the fetus is considered viable. However, in those without these diagnoses, the clinician may delay the beginning of testing until 33 weeks' gestation without significant risk of pregnancy loss before testing. 
Epithelial downgrowth following the removal of iris inclusion cysts. We present three patients in whom epithelial downgrowth occurred following the excision of iris inclusion cysts. The sheet-like downgrowth was aggressively treated and successfully eradicated in two of the three patients. Early identification and prompt therapy are essential. 
Clinical syndromes and differential diagnosis of spinal disorders. In this article an overview of the different clinical aspects of spinal syndromes is presented. The common disorders involving the spinal cord, the spine, and the intervertebral disc are emphasized. 
Rectosigmoid varices and other mucosal changes in patients with portal hypertension. A prospective study was performed to evaluate the prevalence of anorectal varices and their clinical significance as well as to study other proctosigmoidoscopic changes in 75 patients with portal hypertension of diverse etiology. Sixty-seven patients (89.3%) had lower gastrointestinal varices with no significant difference (p greater than 0.05) in prevalence between cirrhosis (92.1%), noncirrhotic portal fibrosis (87%), and extrahepatic portal venous obstruction (85.7%). The rectum was the most common site of lower gastrointestinal varices. External anal and sigmoid colonic varices almost always occurred in the presence of rectal and/or internal anal varices. There was no correlation between the presence of rectosigmoid varices and the severity of esophagogastric mucosal changes or portal hypertension. There was no suggestion that esophageal variceal sclerotherapy influenced the presence of anorectal varices. Seven patients (9.3%) had recent hematochezia, including three patients in whom it occurred in the absence of any upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Varices were the cause of bleeding in at least five patients. An abnormal mucosal vascular pattern in the form of telangiectasias or spiders was seen, irrespective of etiology of portal hypertension, in nine patients (12%). Hemorrhoids were present in 31 patients (41.3%) with an age-related difference (p less than 0.05) between patients with cirrhosis (55.3%) and extrahepatic portal venous obstruction (21.4%). 
Gonadal vein thrombosis in patients with acute gastrointestinal inflammation: diagnosis with CT. During a 31-month period, evidence of gonadal vein thrombosis (GVT) was demonstrated by computed tomography (CT) in seven patients who had a broad spectrum of acute gastrointestinal inflammatory lesions, including diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, appendicitis with abscess, and perforated appendix with pseudomembranous colitis. All patients had lower abdominal pain, tenderness, fever, and leukocytosis. CT demonstrated thrombus through the length of the gonadal vein in each patient; the entire lumen of the vein was filled. No symptoms relating to GVT were present. GVT may resolve with treatment of the underlying enteric disease alone, and anticoagulant therapy may not be necessary. 
Diagnosis and management of retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcoma. Retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas are locally invasive tumors that remain occult for long periods and grow quite large due to the abdominal cavity's remarkable ability to accommodate these slowly expanding masses with a paucity of attendant symptoms. An open biopsy is required to establish diagnosis definitively. Despite improved imaging techniques and preoperative and intraoperative patient management, resectability has not changed significantly in the past 20 years. Even with an aggressive operative approach, only one half the tumors can be resected completely, and of those, more than 90% recur locally and result in the death of the patient. The addition of adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy has not altered this pattern of local failure, in contrast to promising results with extremity soft-tissue sarcoma. Because of the rarity of these tumors, there is an urgent need to establish a national retroperitoneal sarcoma registry and to form cooperative intergroup studies to evaluate, treat, and apply innovative multimodality combination therapies to these otherwise lethal tumors. 
Absence of autoantibodies in primary fibromyalgia. Sera from patients with primary fibromyalgia (223 sera, 210 women; 13 men) were analyzed, by immunofluorescence microscopy, for the presence of antibodies directed against cell nuclei (ANA), smooth muscle, mitochondria and other tissue antigens present in cryostat sections of rat organs (liver, kidney and stomach). Sera from blood donors (255 sera, 75 women; 180 men) served as a comparative group. The occurrence of serum autoantibodies in patients with fibromyalgia did not differ significantly from the reference group. Our results differ from those of others, who have suggested a relation between fibromyalgia and inflammatory rheumatic diseases. 
Can decision analysis help in the management of giant hemangioma of the liver? [editorial] We explore the trade-off between the risk and expected benefits from resection of giant liver hemangioma (GLH), one larger than 4 cm in diameter. We searched the English-language literature for studies of the postoperative mortality after resection of GLH and of the outcome of expectantly treated patients. The results of the data synthesis showed an operative mortality of 1.5% (90% confidence intervals, 0.1-3.0%) and an early surgical morbidity of up to 13%. Mortality among the 37 reported cases with ruptured GLH was 78%. There were no cases of spontaneous or traumatic rupture of unresected GLH during a follow-up of a total of 282 patient years. The main source of ambiguity regarding the management of GLH is the uncertain risk of its rupture. Rough estimates of this risk based on published data suggest that surgical resection is not justified in asymptomatic GLH. Yet, although rare, rupture of GLH does occur with disastrous consequences. Future research may attempt to define patient subsets whose GLHs are at higher risk of rupture, and in whom preventive resection may improve survival. 
Isolation of a yeast artificial chromosome spanning the 8;21 translocation breakpoint t(8;21)(q22;q22.3) in acute myelogenous leukemia. The 8;21 translocation is one of the most common specific rearrangements in acute myelogenous leukemia. We have identified markers (D21S65 and a Not I boundary clone, Not-42, referred to as probe B) flanking the chromosome 21 translocation breakpoint (21q22.3) that demonstrate physical linkage in normal genomic DNA, by using at least three restriction endonucleases (Not I, Sac II, and BssHII), and that are located not more than 250-280 kilobases apart. Pulsed-field gel analysis of DNA from somatic cell hybrids containing the 8;21 translocation chromosomes demonstrates rearrangement of these markers. A 470-kilobase yeast artificial chromosome, YAC-Not-42, has been isolated that contains both probes. Mapping of lambda subclones constructed from YAC-Not-42 suggests that greater than 95% (25/26 probes tested) of the yeast artificial chromosome DNA is located on the proximal (D21S65) side of the breakpoint. In situ hybridization studies using metaphase chromosomes from five acute myelogenous leukemia patients with the 8;21 translocation confirmed these results and demonstrated the translocation of probe B to the derivative chromosome 8. A chromosome walk of approximately 39 kilobases from probe B has allowed identification of the breakpoint in DNA from a somatic cell hybrid containing the derivative chromosome 8. Since probe B contains conserved DNA sequences and is in close proximity to the translocation breakpoint, it may represent a portion of the involved gene on chromosome 21. 
Poliomyelitis-like paralysis during recovery from acute bronchial asthma: possible etiology and risk factors. A poliomyelitis-like paralytic disease during recovery from an attack of bronchial asthma is described in two young children. They presented at the age of 13 and 22 months, respectively, with acute flaccid paralysis of one or both lower limbs and preserved sensation. Cerebrospinal fluid examinations revealed mild protein elevation in both and pleocytosis in the second infant. Enteroviruses were isolated in a nasal swab and stools of the second patient. Acute onset of flaccid paralysis with absent motor action potential and normal sensory responses, detected by electrophysiologic studies, are highly suggestive of motor anterior horn cell disease in these infants. A multifactorial setup of immune suppression, stress, and neurotoxic drugs during an acute bronchial asthma attack triggered by a viral disease may render the patient vulnerable to viral invasion of the anterior horn cell with enteroviruses other than poliovirus. The overall experience of 22 patients with this serious complication is reviewed. 
Pericardio-peritoneal window for malignant pericardial effusion. Pericardio-peritoneostomy for malignant and non-hemorrhagic pericardial effusion is effective. This method relieves the patients of their symptoms and enables them to be discharged within 24 hours. 
Healing assessment of osseous defects of periapical lesions associated with failed endodontically treated teeth with use of freeze-dried bone allograft. Freeze-dried bone allograft (FDBA) has been used extensively in periodontal surgery and in the treatment of pocket osseous defects resulting from inflammatory periodontal disease. No other endodontic investigation has used this type of graft material in the treatment of bony resorptive defects of the periapical lesions associated with failed endodontic therapy. Therefore this study was conducted with the use of FDBA, to assess healing ability of osseous defects after removal of periapical lesions associated with failed endodontically treated teeth. In all patients periapical lesions were surgically removed with retrograde amalgam seal and the graft material was then carefully packed without pressure into the bony defect. The lesions were fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and prepared for histologic examination. Long-term recall demonstrated bone regeneration and good tolerance of allograft material by the periapical tissues. The periapical lesions were either periapical granulomas or apical periodontal cysts. We conclude that FDBA is a biocompatible material of osteogenic potential and can be used effectively in treating osseous defects of periapical lesions associated with failed endodontically treated teeth. 
A selective loss of somatostatin in the hippocampus of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Although neuropeptides have been demonstrated to be hippocampal neuromodulators in laboratory animals, their role in human hippocampal physiology or pathophysiology remains to be defined. The concentrations of somatostatin, cholecystokinin octapeptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and dynorphin A 1-17 were determined in hippocampal tissue resected from patients with cryptogenic temporal lobe epilepsy, a common seizure disorder originating in or near the hippocampus. Control tissue was obtained from cadavera or epilepsy patients in whom the hippocampus was removed during the resection of temporal lobe tumors. Peptide determinations were performed on extracts of punch biopsy specimens taken from six different hippocampal regions. A significant decrease in immunoreactive somatostatin concentration was identified in the dentate gyrus and in region cornu ammonis 4 of cryptogenic temporal lobe epilepsy specimens. No significant changes were present in any other hippocampal region or in the levels of other peptides. In situ hybridization studies performed on cryostat sections from similar patients confirmed a marked loss of neurons expressing the somatostatin gene, which was restricted to the dentate hilus. The density of specific 125I-somatostatin binding to cryostat sections, as determined by semiquantitative in vitro autoradiography, was significantly increased in the dentate gyrus of the cryptogenic epilepsy patients, compared with tumor control specimens. We conclude that a loss of somatostatin-producing interneurons with an upregulation of dentate somatostatin receptors is a specific and characteristic element in the pathophysiology of human cryptogenic temporal lobe epilepsy. 
Altered load dependence of postischemic myocardium Intermittent myocardial ischemia can produce areas of postischemic ("stunned") myocardium in the heart of the human with coronary artery disease. These areas are no longer ischemic, but have diminished contractile performance. Although the effects of loading conditions on systolic contraction of normal, ischemic, and failing myocardium have been investigated in great detail, the way in which load affects contraction of postischemic myocardium is not known. The aim of this study was to determine in anesthetized dogs how loading conditions affect the systolic function of a region of myocardium after 10 min of ischemia and 1 h of reperfusion. Sets of piezoelectric crystals were implanted in a test zone and in a remote zone of myocardium. Measurements of systolic wall thickening were made during nine combinations of left atrial pressure (3, 6, and 9 cmH2O) and mean arterial pressure (70, 90, and 110 mmHg). One set of measurements was made under baseline conditions, and a second set was made after 10 min of coronary occlusion and 1 h of reperfusion. Ischemia and reperfusion reduced wall thickening in the test zone 36 +/- 3% and diminished the response to increases in preload. In contrast, the response of the test zone to changes in afterload was unchanged. An interaction between the test zone (in which depressed contraction was observed) and the surrounding myocardium (in which enhanced function was observed) produced the appearance of a regional wall motion abnormality as afterload increased. These results emphasize that the load dependence of postischemic myocardium differs from that of normal myocardium and must be taken into account in clinical studies in which regional contraction is used to monitor the heart for ischemia. 
Transesophageal electrocardiography using a temporary pacing balloon-tipped electrode in acute cardiac care. STUDY OBJECTIVE: The study was undertaken to determine the feasibility of obtaining esophageal ECGs using resterilized 3F temporary pacing balloon-inflated electrodes in place of the more expensive pill-electrode and its associated expensive preamplifier. SETTING: Tests were conducted in the emergency department and ICU. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Subjects were 12 acutely ill patients for whom standard 12-lead surface ECGs were insufficient to afford accurate, immediate arrhythmia diagnosis. INTERVENTIONS: Reasonable quality esophageal ECGs were obtained by use of the electrodes, generally with minimal patient discomfort. The test never required more than ten minutes. Of the 12 patients who participated in this preliminary study, esophageal ECGs enabled definitive diagnoses to be made in ten cases. CONCLUSION: The use of resterilized temporary pacing balloon-inflated electrodes enables esophageal ECGs to be obtained in an acute care setting. 
Embolization with steel coils using a saline flush technique. A method using saline flush to push Gianturco steel coils through catheters is described, and has been successfully used in 45 patients. The saline flush technique requires no precise matching of coils and catheters, solves problems associated with the conventional method and simplifies the coil embolization procedure. 
Ascites and pleural effusions associated with endometriosis. We report a case of ascites and bilateral pleural effusions associated with an endometrioma in a 26-year-old woman of Chinese descent. She had a right salpingo-oophorectomy and partial omentectomy performed, and she received leuprolide acetate depot injections after the operation. We believe this is the first description of use of a GnRH agonist to treat this rare condition. 
Sodium-lithium countertransport and hypertension in Rochester, Minnesota. The objectives of the present study were to determine whether increased sodium-lithium countertransport is associated with essential hypertension in the general Caucasian population and to determine whether this association is independent of the effects of gender, age, body size, and plasma lipids. We studied 543 men and 589 women from the population of Rochester, Minnesota. Mean sodium-lithium countertransport was higher in hypertensive than in normotensive subjects in men (370 +/- 147 [mean +/- SD] versus 315 +/- 110 mumol/l red blood cells [RBC]/hr, p less than 0.001) and in women (339 +/- 114 versus 269 +/- 92 mumol/l RBC/hr, p less than 0.001). Interindividual differences in plasma triglycerides, body mass index (wt/[ht]2), and plasma total cholesterol explained 13.0% of sodium-lithium countertransport variation in men (p less than 0.001) and 20.2% in women (p less than 0.001). Age did not predict additional sodium-lithium countertransport variation in either gender. Slopes of the regressions of sodium-lithium countertransport on plasma triglycerides, body mass index, and plasma total cholesterol did not differ between diagnostic groups in men (p = 0.31) or in women (p = 0.29). After adjustment to remove sodium-lithium countertransport variation attributable to these covariates, mean sodium-lithium countertransport remained significantly higher in hypertensive than in normotensive subjects in men (354 +/- 139 versus 319 +/- 104 mumol/l RBC/hr, p less than 0.01) and in women (311 +/- 103 versus 278 +/- 83 mumol/l RBC/hr, p less than 0.01). 
Effects of enteral fat emulsion on fat absorption in obstructive jaundiced rats. The effects of fat emulsion given enterally on fat absorption were studied with obstructive jaundiced rats (J group) as compared with jaundice-free rats (C group). The J and C groups were subdivided into JE and CE groups using emulsified fat for the fat absorption test, and JU and CU groups using unemulsified fat. Rats in all groups were fed for 7 days with regular rat chow. After fasting for 12 hours, 14C-labeled fat emulsion was infused to the JE and CE, and 14C-labeled unemulsified fat to the JU and CU groups through a gastrostomy for the absorption test. The hourly and cumulative output of 14CO2 by respiration, absorption rate of 14C-labeled fat in the intestine, and metabolic oxidation rate of the absorbed fat were determined during an 8-hour period after the gastroenteral administration of emulsified or unemulsified fat. The peak of hourly output was seen after the first 2 hours in the CE, JE, and CU groups, following which a remarkable decline was seen in the CE and CU groups. However, a more gentle descent in the JE, and fluctuation at a low level in the JU group were observed. The cumulative output in the JE was 61% of that in the CE, while the output in the JU was 16% of that in the CU group. The absorption rate in the JE was 81% of that in the CE group, while the rate in the JU was 22% of that in the Cu group. 
Congenital cystic eye with multiple ocular and intracranial anomalies. We describe a newborn with congenital cystic eye, contralateral persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, and cerebrocutaneous abnormalities. The cerebrocutaneous abnormalities consisted of agenesis of the corpus callosum, midbrain deformity, malformed sphenoid bone, right upper eyelid coloboma, and a left periocular hamartoma. The results of karyotype analysis of the patient and his parents were normal. The association of congenital cystic eye with contralateral persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous has not been previously reported, to our knowledge. Although no unifying diagnosis exists for the collection of anomalies demonstrated in this patient, the term cranial ectodermopathy broadly classifies most of the defects. 
Detection of talocalcaneal coalitions by magnification bone scintigraphy. Fibrocartilaginous talocalcaneal coalitions are very difficult to identify on plain radiography in symptomatic children and adolescents before gross ossification occurs. Computed tomography (CT) has been successful in identifying osseous and some fibro-osseous coalitions. In this series, magnification imaging of the tarsus on bone scintigraphy in the medial-lateral projection correctly identified talocalcaneal coalitions, seven of the nine bars were fibrous or fibro-osseous. Three of the fibrous lesions were equivocal or normal on conventional radiography and CT. Physiologic accumulations of activity in the growing hind foot are also presented from a control pediatric population. Magnification scintigraphy of the hind foot is offered as an adjunct to plain radiography and CT in the diagnosis of elusive nonosseous subtalar bars. 
Prognostic significance of basement membrane deposition in operable squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. Tumor histology, stage of disease, and performance status are the most important prognostic factors in squamous cell lung cancer (SqCLC). A potentially important descriptor is the pattern of tumor growth as reflected in the dissolution of preexisting or deposition of newly formed basement membrane (BM) around tumor cell nests. The possible correlation between the pattern of BM deposition and patient survival was investigated. Immunohistochemistry testing, using polyclonal antibodies to human type IV collagen, was done on tumor samples of 68 patients with operable Stages I or II SqCLC, and BM staining was scored semiquantitatively. More than 75% immunoreactivity was scored as extensive BM and less than 75% as moderate or limited BM. In six patients, no immunoreactivity could be detected. In 27 of 62 patients, extensive and, in 35 of 62 patients, moderate-limited BM deposition was found. This deposition had a significant effect on survival (P = 0.02). Cox regression analysis, including BM deposition and tumor stage, indicated that BM deposition might also have value as an additional independent prognostic indicator for survival (P = 0.02). Deposition of an appreciable amount of BM in the center of the SqCLC was a prognostically favorable sign, independent of tumor stage. 
Genes for epilepsy mapped in the mouse. The neurological mutant mouse strain E1 is a model for complex partial seizures in humans. The inheritance of epileptic seizures with seven conventional chromosomal markers and over 60 endogenous proviral markers was studied by means of back-crosses of E1 with two seizure-resistant strains, DBA/2J and ABP/LeJ. The major gene responsible for this epileptic phenotype (El-1) was localized to a region distal with respect to the centromere on chromosome 9. At least one other gene, El-2, linked to proviral markers on chromosome 2, also influences the seizure phenotype. In addition, a potential modifier of seizures was detected in the DBA/2J background. The location of El-1 on distal chromosome 9 may allow identification of an epilepsy candidate gene in humans on the basis of conserved synteny with human chromosome 3. 
Thymic carcinoid. Carcinoid of the thymus is a rare neoplasm. Differentiation from thymoma is important because they have entirely different prognosis. A patient in whom a 19 x 18 x 12 cm carcinoid tumor of the thymus was surgically removed is presented. The tumor metastasized to peritracheal and internal mammary nodes, and invaded the SVC, pleura, lung, and pericardium. This is apparently the largest reported tumor of its kind. Prior to induction of anesthesia cardiopulmonary bypass and rigid bronchoscopy were readily available. Awake intubation was utilized. Even though long-term prognosis is poor, an aggressive surgical approach and adjuvant radiotherapy may achieve extended survival with excellent quality of life. Central aspects of the disease as well as pivotal therapeutic points are discussed. 
Bacterial invasion of the biliary system by way of the portal-venous system. It has been suggested that bacteria in the intestine gain access into the biliary tract by entering the portal-venous blood. We have tested the hypothesis of hematogenous infection of the biliary system in cats. The animals were treated in three different groups: group A (no biliary obstruction), group B (acute biliary obstruction) and group C (chronic biliary obstruction). A mutant strain of Escherichia coli was infused into the splenic vein of cats at three different dosages (10(7), 10(5) and 10(3) with sham controls. In the unobstructed biliary system, the mutant E. coli was isolated from the bile 30 min and 90 min after the infusion of 10(7) and 10(5) E. coli, respectively. No bacteria were found in the bile with the infusion of 10(3) E. coli and in the control animals. Bile flow was significantly reduced with the infusion of bacteria. The biliary excretion of E. coli in group B was similar to that in group A. In group C, the bile output in the first hour was very high but declined rapidly. E. coli was excreted into the bile at all three dosages of infusion after 30 min. Histological sections of the liver showed that the infused bacteria entered the sinusoidal blood and that some were phagocytosed by Kupffer cells. The portal-venous blood was considered an important route of bacterial invasion into the biliary system, and the penetration of bacteria was facilitated in biliary obstruction. 
Medical treatment of peptic ulcer disease. Our understanding of PUD and its treatment has improved dramatically during the past 15 years. During this time, many new effective drugs have been approved by the FDA, and possibly even more potent and effective therapies are now being evaluated. The H2-blockers, sucralfate, and antacids heal over 90% of duodenal ulcers in 6 to 8 weeks, and H2-blockers heal about 80% of gastric ulcers by 8 weeks and over 90% by 12 weeks. The new, more potent pump blockers (omeprazole) promise to be even more effective drugs, even for the healing of patients who are taking NSAIDS. However, the potential hazards of marked, long-term acid suppression must still be evaluated. Maintenance therapy with H2-blockers or sucralfate, ideally used for patients who would otherwise have frequent symptomatic recurrences of duodenal ulcer disease or who have had complications, reduces the relapses, especially symptomatic relapses. Maintenance therapy with H2-blockers also seems to reduce the recurrences of GUD, but this use has not yet received FDA approval. Elimination of H. pylori infection with antibiotics may prove to reduce recurrent ulcer disease and negate the need for maintenance therapy. Colloidal bismuth subcitrate alone, which suppresses but does not eradicate H. pylori infection, seems to be an effective ulcer drug and may even reduce the rate of early recurrences. Effective ulcer therapy, especially if it prevents recurrent disease, may reduce the complications of PUD, but this expectation has yet to be established. The use of prophylactic cytoprotective prostaglandins (misoprostol) reduces the incidence of NSAID-induced GUD. 
Sinusoidal portal hypertension in hepatic amyloidosis. Hepatic venous catheterisation and transvenous liver biopsy were performed in five patients with hepatic amyloidosis. In three patients, hepatic venous pressures were normal and histological examination of the liver biopsy specimen showed discrete and sparse perisinusoidal amyloid deposits. In the other two, however, the gradient between wedged and free hepatic venous pressures was increased (12 and 16 mmHg; normal 1-4 mmHg) and amyloid deposits were abundant and diffuse in the Disse's space. This study shows that portal hypertension in patients with hepatic amyloidosis is of the sinusoidal type and is related to the reduction of vascular space of hepatic sinusoids by massive perisinusoidal amyloid deposits. Furthermore, portal hypertension is associated with a poor prognosis in patients with hepatic amyloidosis. 
Helicobacter pylori infection and the risk of gastric carcinoma BACKGROUND. Infection with Helicobacter pylori has been linked with chronic atrophic gastritis, an inflammatory precursor of gastric adenocarcinoma. In a nested case-control study, we explored whether H. pylori infection increases the risk of gastric carcinoma. METHODS. From a cohort of 128,992 persons followed since the mid-1960s at a health maintenance organization, 186 patients with gastric carcinoma were selected as case patients and were matched according to age, sex, and race with 186 control subjects without gastric carcinoma. Stored serum samples collected during the 1960s were tested for IgG antibodies to H. pylori by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Data on cigarette use, blood group, ulcer disease, and gastric surgery were obtained from questionnaires administered at enrollment. Tissue sections and pathology reports were reviewed to confirm the histologic results. RESULTS. The mean time between serum collection and the diagnosis of gastric carcinoma was 14.2 years. Of the 109 patients with confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma (excluding tumors of the gastroesophageal junction), 84 percent had been infected previously with H. pylori, as compared with 61 percent of the matched control subjects (odds ratio, 3.6; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.8 to 7.3). Tumors of the gastroesophageal junction were not linked to H. pylori infection, nor were tumors in the gastric cardia. H. pylori was a particularly strong risk factor for stomach cancer in women (odds ratio, 18) and blacks (odds ratio, 9). A history of gastric surgery was independently associated with the development of cancer (odds ratio, 17; P = 0.03), but a history of peptic ulcer disease was negatively associated with subsequent gastric carcinoma (odds ratio, 0.2; P = 0.02). Neither blood group nor smoking history affected risk. CONCLUSIONS. Infection with H. pylori is associated with an increased risk of gastric adenocarcinoma and may be a cofactor in the pathogenesis of this malignant condition. 
Ischemic complications of abdominal aortic surgery. From 1982 through 1988, 634 consecutive patients underwent abdominal aortic reconstruction for occlusive (37%) or aneurysmal (63%) disease. We studied the ischemic problems affecting the branches of the aorta, excluding the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries. Ischemic colitis (0.6%), spinal cord ischemia (0.16%), renal insufficiency (17%), and lower limbs ischemia (6.5%) were the major problems encountered. We identified the most significant factors associated with these complications such as hypotension, emergency, hypovolemia, preoperative renal function, suprarenal clamping, the quality of the preoperative investigation, and have suggested some specific preventive measures. 
The role of bupivacaine in post-tonsillectomy pain. The peritonsillar tissues on one side of 45 consecutive patients undergoing tonsillectomy were infiltrated with bupivacaine and adrenaline, the opposite side serving as a control. Although a significant difference was noted between the two sides this was not a substantial difference in terms of pain relief. 
Sonography of abnormal lymph nodes in vitro: correlation of sonographic and histologic findings. The sonographic evaluation of lymph nodes is based primarily on evaluation of their shape and size. Recently, however, the availability of high-frequency transducers has made consideration of internal structure possible. An important objective is to determine whether node enlargement is due to inflammatory or neoplastic processes. To determine the accuracy of sonography for this purpose, we obtained in vitro sonograms of 53 enlarged lymph nodes excised from 41 patients during surgery for neoplastic or nonneoplastic disease. The sonograms were obtained with 7.5- and 10-MHz transducers. They were interpreted by a radiologist who was unaware of the clinical diagnosis. The nodes were subsequently processed for anatomohistologic study; findings were compared side by side. In 26 of the 53 nodes, sonograms showed an identifiable central echogenic line, which on histologic specimen corresponded to the internal part of the medulla where the lymphatic sinuses converge. All these nodes were benign. Two other nodes had an echogenic internal structure not resembling the normal hilum; in one case this was caused by metastatic disease and in the other by fibrosis. Sonograms of the remaining 25 nodes showed no detectable hilar structure; 21 were involved by a tumor and four had diffuse fatty replacement. Our results suggest that the sonographic finding of a central echogenic line is a valid criterion of benignity. Absence of this finding may be due to factors other than neoplastic disease, such as fatty replacement. 
A generalized description of Wenckebach behavior with analysis of determinants of ventricular cycle-length variation during ambulatory electrocardiography. Although variation in ventricular cycle length during Wenckebach-type second-degree atrioventricular block traditionally has been explained by the direction of incremental change in PR lengthening preceding the blocked complex, changing PP intervals can also affect Wenckebach periodicity. A generalized algebraic solution was derived to define changing ventricular cycle length as a function of both changing PP and changing incremental PR interval behavior in Wenckebach block. Based on this solution, the determinants of cycle-length variation were examined for 65 episodes of Wenckebach block detected by ambulatory electrocardiography in 51 patients. As previously demonstrated, only 20% (13 of 65) of Wenckebach episodes were characterized by the "classic" shortening of RR intervals; in contrast, ventricular cycle length increased in 57% (37 of 65) and remained constant in 23% (15 of 65) of cases. Algebraic analysis of these episodes revealed that the direction of ventricular cycle-length change preceding the blocked complex was primarily determined by the direction of change of incremental PR intervals in only 35% (23 of 65) of Wenckebach episodes; RR change was governed by the direction of change of preceding PP intervals in 34% (22 of 65) and by equal change of PP and incremental PR intervals in 31% (20 of 65) of these episodes. Both inverse and concordant relationships between changing RP and PR intervals were primarily determined by the direction of PP variation during in vivo Wenckebach block. These data confirm that classic Wenckebach block is less common than "atypical" Wenckebach periodicity and demonstrate that RR variation in Wenckebach block is governed by the changing PP interval as often as by the changing incremental PR interval. 
Ventilatory responses to chemoreceptor stimulation after hypoxic acclimatization in awake goats. Our objective was to test the hypothesis that exposure to prolonged hypoxia results in altered responsiveness to chemoreceptor stimulation. Acclimatization to hypoxia occurs rapidly in the awake goat relative to other species. We tested the sensitivity of the central and peripheral chemoreceptors to chemical stimuli before and after 4 h of either isocapnic or poikilocapnic hypoxia (arterial PO2 40 Torr). We confirmed that arterial PCO2 decreased progressively, reaching a stable value after 4 h of hypoxic exposure (poikilocapnic group). In the isocapnic group, inspired minute ventilation increased over the same time course. Thus, acclimatization occurred in both groups. In goats, isocapnic hypoxia did not result in hyperventilation on return to normoxia, whereas poikilocapnic hypoxia did cause hyperventilation, indicating a different mechanism for acclimatization and the persistent hyperventilation on return to normoxia. Goats exposed to isocapnic hypoxia exhibited an increased slope of the CO2 response curve. Goats exposed to poikilocapnic hypoxia had no increase in slope but did exhibit a parallel leftward shift of the CO2 response curve. Neither group exhibited a significant change in response to bolus NaCN injections or dopamine infusions after prolonged hypoxia. However, both groups demonstrated a similar significant increase in the ventilatory response to subsequent acute exposure to isocapnic hypoxia. The increase in hypoxic ventilatory sensitivity, which was not dependent on the modality of hypoxic exposure (isocapnic vs. poikilocapnic), reinforces the key role of the carotid chemoreceptors in ventilatory acclimatization to hypoxia. 
Shower versus sink bath: evaluation of heart rate, blood pressure, and subjective response of the patient with myocardial infarction. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of a sitting shower versus a sitting sink bath in low-risk patients with myocardial infarction (MI). Heart rate, blood pressure (mean blood pressure and rate-pressure-product), ratings of perceived exertion, and occurrence of symptoms during the baths and between resting, bathing, and recovery periods were evaluated. Thirty patients with MI were tested during their first and second self-bath on 2 consecutive days between 2 and 9 days after MI. The bathing methods produced significant increases from the resting values in all the variables (p less than or equal to 0.05). No significant differences between the resting and recovery values existed (p greater than 0.05). Ten subjects experienced atypical responses to bathing as indicated by heart rate and blood pressures. Fatigue was the most frequently encountered symptom at rest and during the bathing activities. The findings suggest that low-risk patients with MI can choose between a sitting sink bath or a sitting shower as their first self-bath after MI, based on preferences. However, because the bathing activity (and not the bathing method) did produce some atypical responses in one third of the subjects, readiness to engage in bathing activities should be individually assessed by objective and subjective criteria. 
Acute leukemia after a primary myelodysplastic syndrome: immunophenotypic, genotypic, and clinical characteristics. We studied the nature of blast cells in 41 patients with acute leukemia following a previous primary myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) by a combined multiparameter analysis including morphologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular genetic (Igs, T-cell receptor (TCR)-beta, -gamma, and -delta and the major breakpoint cluster region [M-bcr]) investigations. In addition, the clinical and hematologic characteristics according to the immunophenotype of blast cells were analyzed. Our results show that, although the granulocytic and/or monocytic lineages are those most commonly involved in these acute leukemias, other cell components, including the megakaryocytic and lymphoid, may be present (12% and 15% of the cases, respectively). Moreover, both morphologic and phenotypic studies show the frequent coexistence of two or three cell populations. Interestingly, in all cases the lymphoblastic component constantly displayed an early B phenotype (CD19+, CD10-, TdT+). Upon analyzing whether the type of MDS conditioned any differences in the immunophenotype of blast cells, we observed that, although the lymphoid lineage may be involved in all MDS subgroups, some differences emerge within the myeloid leukemic transformations. Thus, the refractory anemias with excess of blasts (RAEB) and RAEB in transformation displayed a significantly higher incidence of myeloblastic and megakaryoblastic transformations, while in the RA, RA with ring sideroblasts and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, the granulo-monocytic phenotype predominated. In addition, our results show that the clinical and hematologic characteristics of these patients may be partially related to the immunophenotype of the blast cells. Ig heavy chain gene rearrangements were found in two of 19 patients analyzed (11%), one with a hybrid leukemia (lymphoid-myeloid) and the other with a granulo-monocytic phenotype. Two other hybrid transformations analyzed were in germline configuration. Gamma and delta gene rearrangements were found in 21% and 37% of these acute transformation, respectively. The TCR-beta and M-bcr were in germline configuration in all 19 cases studied. In summary, immunophenotype and molecular studies point to a pluripotent stem cell with preferential myeloid commitment as the target cell of leukemias following a primary MDS. 
Low power laser biostimulation of chronic oro-facial pain. A double-blind placebo controlled cross-over study in 40 patients. The efficacy of low power laser stimulation in the treatment of chronic oro-facial pain conditions was investigated in a double-blind placebo controlled modified cross-over study in 40 patients. The laser was an invisible infrared (IR) diode laser with an emission at 904 nanometer (nm). Treatment effect was evaluated by means of VAS-scales and global assessment of pain. Outcome of treatment was correlated to changes in urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). The clinical impression was that placebo was superior to laser stimulation. No statistically significant difference between the analgesic effect of the laser and placebo irradiation was found on VAS-scales. A significant (P = 0.05) increase in 5-HIAA excretion was found in the placebo group. It is concluded that the possibility of a substantial placebo response should be taken into consideration using 904 nm (IR) lasers for pain treatment in patients with this type of chronic oro-facial pain. 
A randomized trial of carboplatin versus iproplatin in untreated advanced ovarian cancer. Between August 1984 and October 1987, 120 patients with stage IC to IV epithelial ovarian cancer were randomly assigned to receive carboplatin (400 mg/m2) or iproplatin (300 mg/m2) every 4 weeks as initial treatment. Stratification was made according to International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage and according to size of residual disease after surgery. Response was evaluated after six courses when patients were restaged, with laparoscopy or laparotomy in clinical complete responders or those with no assessable disease. Treatment was then stopped in surgically proven complete responders. Patients with partial (PR) or minor response (MR) received a further six courses of their original drug at a reduced dose (carboplatin 300 mg/m2, iproplatin 225 mg/m2). Patients with stable (SD), progressive (PD), or recurrent disease were treated with cyclophosphamide (1 g/m2). The response rates were 63% (95% confidence interval [CI], 50% to 74%) for carboplatin and 38% (95% CI, 26% to 51%) for iproplatin. Fifteen patients were not assessable for response. The median survival was 114 weeks (95% CI, 82 to 233 weeks) for carboplatin patients and 68 weeks (95% CI, 48 to 82 weeks) for iproplatin patients (P = .008). The amount of residual disease after initial laparotomy was a prognostic factor for survival. Myelosuppression was the main toxicity and was greater with iproplatin. This study shows carboplatin to be more active than iproplatin in the treatment of ovarian cancer and less toxic. Few responses to cyclophosphamide occurred following either drug, implying resistance to the alkylating agent. 
Determinants of late stage diagnosis of breast and cervical cancer: the impact of age, race, social class, and hospital type [published erratum appears in Am J Public Health 1991 Aug;81(8):980] Previous studies of the relationship between cancer stage, age, and race have not controlled for social class and health care setting. Logistic regression analyses, using information from the New York State Tumor Registry and area-level social class indicators, demonstrated that, in New York City, older Black, lower class women in public hospitals were 3.75 and 2.54 times more likely to have late stage breast or cervical cancer, respectively, than were younger White, high social class women in non-public hospitals. 
Breast conservation therapy. Severe breast fibrosis after radiation therapy in patients with collagen vascular disease. Two patients with collagen vascular disease (rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma) had extremely poor cosmetic results after breast radiation therapy (RT). The patient with rheumatoid arthritis received 5251 cGy at 210 cGy per day, followed by a 1600 cGy iridium-192 implant boost. Between 8 and 11 months post-RT she had severe breast fibrosis, retraction, and pain that required a mastectomy for relief. The patient with scleroderma received 5040 cGy at 180 cGy per day without a boost. Between 1 and 4 months post-RT the systemic symptoms of scleroderma progressed and the breast became hard and retracted. Both rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma are chronic systemic diseases characterized by severe inflammation and an autoimmune component. The presence of scleroderma at or before treatment should be considered a contraindication to breast RT, whereas the presence of active rheumatoid arthritis should be considered a relative contraindication. An autoimmune mechanism will be presented to explain both the fibrosis and the systemic progression of collagen vascular disease that was observed. 
Antiinflammatory and antiarthritic properties of a substituted quinoline carboxylic acid: CL 306,293. CL 306,293, a substituted quinoline carboxylic acid at a daily oral dose between 1.5 and 3.0 mg/kg suppressed the inflammation and joint destruction (radiological criteria) associated with both developing and established adjuvant arthritis. When a weekly oral dosing regimen was used, joint destruction was attenuated when this agent was administered at a dose of 50 to 200 mg/kg. Inflammation associated with a delayed type hypersensitivity reaction in dogs was suppressed at a daily dose of 0.25 mg/kg or a weekly dose of 1 mg/kg. At efficacious doses, CL 306,293 had no effects on cyclooxygenase or lipoxygenase activities nor did it have an effect on carrageenin induced paw edema. In acute tests, the compound was not ulcerogenic. The above observations indicate that the antiinflammatory effects of CL 306,293 are distinct from those observed with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents. Mechanistic studies conducted and to be published indicate that CL 306,293 down regulates T cell function and this mechanism may account, at least in part, for the antiinflammatory and antiarthritic properties observed in animal models of inflammation and joint destruction. 
Vascular complications of lumbar decompression laminectomy and foraminotomy. A unique case and review of the literature. The possibility of vascular injury should always be kept in mind during lumbar laminectomy. Patients with pre-existing vascular disease are predisposed to injury. Unexplained hypotension is highly suggestive of a vascular catastrophe and is an indication for more detailed examination, sometimes laparotomy. If the patient's clinical condition is stable, consider arteriography. The development of high-output cardiac failure in a patient who has recently undergone lumbar laminectomy is almost diagnostic of traumatic arteriovenous fistula. The best prognosis for recovery of acute vascular interruption occurs with immediate treatment within 24-48 hours. Continued awareness of the possible occurrence of these injuries and familiarity with their various manifestations will facilitate early diagnosis, prompt operative repair, and improved mortality. 
Fulminant hepatic failure after repeated exposure to isoflurane anesthesia: a case report. A previously healthy but obese 26-yr-old woman was diagnosed as having hepatic dysfunction 17 days after the third of three consecutive exposures to isoflurane anesthesia for paranasal sinus surgery. Serum laboratory findings included elevated aminotransferases and bilirubin. Radiographical evaluations showed no evidence of extrahepatic disease. Serological studies were negative for acute viral infections, and serum copper was normal. The patient's condition deteriorated over the ensuing 17 days, with hyperreflexia, hypoglycemia and a rapid fall in serum aminotransferases with a concomitant rise in bilirubin level and prothrombin time despite maximal medical support. The liver volume as shown by computed tomography fell from 1,290 cm3 to 680 cm3 over 6 days. The patient underwent successful orthotopic liver transplantation 25 days after onset of symptoms. Histopathological examination of the resected liver showed submassive and massive necrosis, with a few foci of microvesicular steatosis and ultrastructural evidence of mitochondrial abnormalities. Although we found insufficient evidence to prove that this case was caused by isoflurane anesthesia, the clinical course and histopathological findings are similar to those in hepatic injury caused by halothane anesthesia. Therefore we report this as a possible case of fulminant hepatic failure resulting from isoflurane anesthesia. 
Endoscopy as an adjuvant to biliary radiologic intervention. Twenty-two patients underwent 24 percutaneous biliary procedures guided with choledochoscopy, an adjunctive percutaneous biliary technique. All but four procedures were performed through established percutaneous tracts; the others, through tracts less than 4 weeks old. The procedures were done for the following reasons: removal of calculi (n = 15), electrohydraulic lithotripsy (n = 1), biliary duct biopsies (n = 8), cauterization of a bleeding tract (n = 1), and evaluation of biliary-enteric anastomoses (n = 11). The only complication was one case of severe nausea after choledochoscopy. This patient required overnight hospitalization and medical treatment. All procedures were technically successful, except one case in which the tract was undersized. All patients received intravenously administered antibiotics before and after the procedure. It is concluded that choledochoscopy is a safe, atraumatic, and well-tolerated method of evaluating and treating biliary disease and that it markedly reduces radiation exposure. It can be performed rapidly with minimal sedation on an in- or outpatient basis. 
Implantation of human fetal ventral mesencephalon to the right caudate nucleus in advanced Parkinson's disease. Disaggregated ventral mesencephalic tissue from single aborted human fetuses of 11 to 18 weeks' gestation was implanted stereotaxically into a consistent striatal site in 12 patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. All were receiving optimum levodopa therapy and were examined preoperatively and at 3,6,9, and 12 months postoperatively. Immunosuppression was not used. There were significant sustained improvements at 12 months in three patients; motor fluctuations were absent in two. There were modest group improvements up to 6 months, with increased quality of "on" and "off" phases, quantity of on times, and specific improvements in contralateral upper limb bradykinesia. Preoperative levodopa requirements were reduced to a mean of 64% at 6 months and 61% at 12 months. Deterioration below baseline ratings occurred in three of nine patients who had consistent follow-up to 12 months. Grafting of midgestational human fetal tissue can lead to improvement in Parkinson's disease. Individual disease severity may be critical, and further trials are needed to identify host factors influencing outcome. 
Laparoscopic nephrectomy: initial case report. A tumor-bearing right kidney was completely excised from an 85-year-old woman using a laparoscopic approach. A newly devised method for intra-abdominal organ entrapment and a recently developed laparoscopic tissue morcellator made it possible to deliver the 190 gm. kidney through an 11 mm. incision. 
The assessment of visuo-spatial neglect after acute stroke. Forty four consecutive patients with acute hemispheric stroke and forty seven elderly controls with no neurological disease were assessed for visuo-spatial neglect, using a modified neglect test battery. Neglect was found to be equally common in patients with right hemisphere and left hemisphere stroke three days after stroke (72% versus 62%). It was more severe in those with a right hemisphere stroke and resolved more frequently in those with a left hemisphere stroke. The battery was validated against an occupational therapist's assessment of neglect on self-care tasks. The inter-observer reliability was good and it was possible to monitor changes over time with the battery. 
Second-trimester maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels and the risk of subsequent fetal death BACKGROUND. The finding of an elevated level of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein during the second trimester of pregnancy may indicate that the fetus has died or is about to die. It is uncertain, however, whether the finding is associated with an increased risk of fetal death later in gestation independent of known causes of elevation, such as the presence of neural-tube defects or multiple gestation. METHODS. To address this question, we performed a case-control study of 612 women whose pregnancies ended in fetal death and 2501 women who gave birth to live infants, using reports from California vital statistics for 1987. All the women had signleton pregnancies and alpha-fetoprotein screening in the second trimester. RESULTS. Women with elevated levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein in the second trimester of pregnancy had an increased risk of fetal death, and the risk was increased until term. Women with the highest levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein--greater than or equal to 3.0 times the median value--had a very high risk of fetal death (odds ratio, 10.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 4.9 to 22.0) as compared with women who had normal levels of alpha-fetoprotein. Maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels that were 2.0 to 2.9 times the median were also associated with an elevated risk of fetal death (odds ratio, 2.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.7 to 3.4). Elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein were especially likely to be associated with fetal death in cases in which maternal hypertension or placental infarction was also present. CONCLUSIONs. An unexplained elevated level of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein in the second trimester of pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of subsequent fetal death, up to four to five months after alpha-fetoprotein screening. 
Identification and characterization of a cis-acting element that interferes with glucocorticoid-inducible activation of the mouse mammary tumor virus promoter. The rat hepatoma cell line M1.19 is stably infected by the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV), and the expression of the virus is induced by glucocorticoid treatment. However, in the 6.10.2 variant of M1.19, an increase in MMTV transcription is hardly detectable upon exposure to hormone. The mechanism of hormone-unresponsiveness in these cells has been unclear. In this study, we show that nuclear extract from 6.10.2 cells contains a specific DNA-binding activity that recognizes a sequence motif extending from positions -163 to -147 on the MMTV promoter. An oligonucleotide probe spanning this region binds a nuclear factor distinct from the glucocorticoid receptor. In vivo competition experiments, where increased amounts of a plasmid containing this element were transfected into 6.10.2 cells, showed a dose-dependent increase in hormonal inducibility of MMTV expression. Together, these results indicate that this sequence motif negatively modulates glucocorticoid-inducible activation of the MMTV promoter. Moreover, we have characterized a nuclear factor that preferentially binds to the coding strand of this element. 
An alternative for nasal tip reconstruction: the bilateral rotation flap. A large percentage of the skin tumors that dermatologic surgeons treat are located on the nose. Of these, a significant percentage are located on the nasal tip. The nasal tip is notoriously difficult to reconstruct and we present a bilateral rotation flap that may be useful in some instances for reconstruction of this area. 
Simultaneous potentiation and fatigue in quadriceps after a 60-second maximal voluntary isometric contraction. Potential mechanisms of fatigue (metabolic factors) and potentiation (phosphate incorporation by myosin phosphorylatable light chains) were investigated during recovery from a 60-s maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVC) in the quadriceps muscle of 12 subjects. On separate days before and for 2 h after the 60-s MVC, either a 1-s MVC or electrically stimulated contractions were used as indexes to test muscle performance. Torque at the end of the 60-s MVC was 57% of the initial level, whereas torques from a 1-s MVC and 50-Hz stimulation were most depressed in the immediate recovery period. At this time, muscle biopsy analyses revealed significant decreases in ATP and phosphocreatine and a 19-fold increase in muscle lactate. Conversely, isometric twitch torque and torque from a 10-Hz stimulus were the least depressed of six contractile indexes and demonstrated potentiation of 25 and 34%, respectively, by 4 min of recovery (P less than 0.05). At this time, muscle lactate concentration was still 16 times greater than at rest. An increased phosphate content of the myosin phosphorylatable light chains (P less than 0.05) was also evident both immediately and 4 min after the 60-s MVC. We conclude that the 60-s MVC produced marked force decreases likely due to metabolic displacement, while the limited decline in the twitch and 10-Hz torques and their significant potentiation suggested that myosin phosphorylation may provide a mechanism to enhance contractile force under conditions of submaximal activation during fatigue. 
Blunt cervical spine Brown-Sequard injury. A report of three cases. Cervical spinal cord Brown-Sequard syndrome was diagnosed in three recent victims of blunt injury at the authors' Level II Trauma Center. While anatomic hemisection of the cord, resulting in ipsilateral motor and proprioception loss and contralateral pain and temperature deficit, is a fully understandable concept, in the context of the acute trauma evaluation, these findings may be confusing because they are unexpected. Penetrating trauma is far more likely to cause this uncommon syndrome than vehicular crash, fall, or crushing injury. Pediatric victims frequently have no fracture. Early neurosurgical consultation, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if plain film radiography is uninformative, and consideration for rapid decompression if the deficit and pathologic anatomy warrant, are the recommended approaches. Motor function recovery from blunt injury may be expected within six months, a better prognosis than for penetrating injury causing the syndrome. 
Serum iron and transferrin in acute neuroleptic induced akathisia. Thirty acute psychiatric patients were examined prospectively at the beginning of neuroleptic treatment for acute psychotic symptoms and on average 16 days later. Two alternative hypotheses were examined: 1) neuroleptic treatment affects the levels of serum iron and transferrin; 2) acute akathisia developing during the initial few weeks of treatment is associated with low levels of serum iron and transferrin, either initially or at follow up or both. Serum iron levels did not change on repeat measurement, while there was a small, but significant decrease of serum transferrin. There was a significantly greater decrease in iron and transferrin levels in patients with akathisia on follow up compared with non-akathisics. In addition, akathisia ratings were highly correlated with serum transferrin levels on follow up. 
Perineal excision of the rectum for prolapse in the elderly. A perineal operation is described for the treatment of rectal prolapse. The surgery improves functional outcome by correcting the anatomical anomalies associated with the condition. In 17 elderly women, there was one perioperative death and one recurrence. At a median follow-up of 24 months, 13 patients were able to control solid stool and three were profoundly incontinent. The operation may be an alternative to the more invasive abdominal procedures for the treatment of the majority of patients with prolapse. 
Reactive occipital epileptiform activity: is it benign? Occipital epileptiform activity that is almost continuous and reactive to eye opening has been associated with a childhood epilepsy syndrome and basilar migraine with seizures. An association of these syndromes with a benign course had been disputed. In this study, a retrospective investigation of reactive occipital epileptiform activity (ROEA) was performed to determine the prognostic value of this distinctive EGG pattern. The EEG and hospital record of patients with ROEA were reviewed with an observation period of 6 months to 8 years. The patients were divided into good and poor outcome groups based on response to treatment. Of 33 patients, 12 (36.4%) had complete seizure control; 21 (63.6%) continued to have poorly controlled seizures. Only 3 (9.1%) patients were able to discontinue antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) without seizure recurrence. Analysis of clinical and EEG variables showed that a history of perinatal difficulties, abnormal neurologic findings, and abnormal EEG background activities occur significantly more frequently in the poor outcome group. This study suggests that ROEA is not uniformly associated with a benign course and that other factors are involved in determining prognosis of the epilepsy. 
Stroke following oral trauma in children. Stroke after oral trauma in children is a rare but catastrophic event. We describe two cases of stroke in children after each child fell with a writing instrument in the mouth. Both children had a latent period prior to the onset of neurologic symptoms. Ischemic infarction in the distribution of the middle cerebral artery was present in both cases. Both children were left with permanent hemiparesis. The case reports are reviewed and diagnosis and therapy are discussed. Emergency physicians should be aware of the risk of neurologic complications following apparently asymptomatic oral trauma. 
The effect of ERCP on circulating pancreatic enzymes and pancreatic protease inhibitors. The pathogenesis of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)-induced pancreatitis is poorly understood. To elucidate a role for pancreatic enzymes in ERCP-induced pancreatitis, we measured serum amylase, lipase, trypsin, and elastase in 25 patients undergoing ERCP. Serum alpha 1-antitrypsin and alpha 2-macroglobulin, two major pancreatic protease inhibitors, also were measured. All pancreatic enzymes measured rose significantly after ERCP. Pancreatic duct cannulation was associated with a greater elevation in serum amylase and lipase. Circulating alpha 2-macroglobulin was reduced by 7% (p = 0.04) 6 h after ERCP, whereas circulating alpha 1-antitrypsin increased over the same time period. Papillotomy, stent placement, or underlying disease did not influence changes any further. Three patients developed ERCP-induced pancreatitis. All three patients had circulating alpha 2-macroglobulin levels below 243 mg/dl (p = 0.03). The ERCP-induced alterations in circulating pancreatic enzymes and their inhibitors are similar to changes seen in clinical pancreatitis. Low circulating alpha 2-macroglobulin levels may predispose to ERCP-induced pancreatitis. 
Is routine CT scanning necessary in the preoperative evaluation of patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy? To evaluate the usefulness of CT scanning before carotid endarterectomy, a prospective study was performed on 469 consecutive patients considered for carotid endarterectomy during a 5-year period. All patients underwent carotid duplex scanning and CT scanning before carotid arteriography. Two hundred thirty-seven patients (51%) had transient ischemic attacks, 109 (23%) had a prior stroke, and 122 (26%) were asymptomatic. Results of the CT scan were abnormal in 68 (62%) of the 109 patients with stroke. Fifty-one of the 360 patients (14%) without a clinical history of stroke had an abnormal CT scan outcome. Of patients with a stroke documented by CT scanning, 27 had lacunar infarcts, and 92 had cortical infarcts; these findings did not change surgical management in any patient. CT scanning did not reveal any unsuspected infarcts or tumors. Two hundred thirty carotid endarterectomies were performed on 206 patients. Forty-seven patients (23%) in the operative group had abnormal CT scan findings, but the scan did not influence operative decisions or timing in any case. Seventy-two patients (27%) in the nonoperative group had abnormal CT scan results, but CT scan findings did not exclude any patient from arteriography or surgery. Three perioperative strokes (1.3%) occurred. CT scan findings did not correlate with postoperative neurologic complications. Cost of CT scanning was one-half million dollars in our study alone. Routine CT scanning is unnecessary before carotid endarterectomy and is not cost-effective. 
Peptide selection by MHC class I molecules. Synthetic peptides have been used to sensitize target cells and thereby screen for epitopes recognized by T cells. Most epitopes of cytotoxic T lymphocytes can be mimicked by synthetic peptides of 12-15 amino acids. Although in specific cases, truncations of peptides improves sensitization of target cells, no optimum length for binding to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules has been defined. We have now analysed synthetic peptide captured by empty MHC class I molecules of the mutant cell line RMA-S. We found that class I molecules preferentially bound short peptides (nine amino acids) and selectively bound these peptides even when they were a minor component in a mixture of longer peptides. These results may help to explain the difference in size restriction of T-cell epitopes between experiments with synthetic peptides and those with naturally processed peptides. 
No causal relationship between transdermal scopolamine and seizures: methodologic lessons for pharmacoepidemiology. Because of case reports suggesting that use of transdermal scopolamine might be associated with the subsequent development of seizures, a retrospective cohort study was performed with computerized Medicaid claims data. Patients receiving transdermal scopolamine were compared with patients receiving diphenhydramine, meclizine, prochlorperazine, and promethazine. A four-fold increased risk of seizures after transdermal scopolamine use was observed in the claims data. However, this was not supported by the primary medical records. All patients who had seizures after using transdermal scopolamine either had seizures before receiving the drug as well or did not really suffer from seizures. The original finding appeared to be the result of the use of transdermal scopolamine for "dizziness, rule out seizures"; the ICD-9-CM coding system does not include "rule out" diagnoses. Thus these data do not confirm the existence of an association between seizures and the use of transdermal scopolamine. In addition, this study demonstrates the usefulness of pharmacoepidemiology studies in documenting drug safety and the importance of obtaining primary medical records when performing pharmacoepidemiologic studies with claims data. 
A longitudinal study of respiratory symptoms in aluminum potroom workers. The influence of occupational work exposure and host factors on the incidence of dyspnea and wheezing as reported in questionnaires was examined in 1,301 new employees in aluminum electrolytic potrooms. The incidence appeared to decrease after 2 yr of exposure, and the estimated probability of development of symptoms was nearly 20% after 4 yr. A total of 105 subjects developed dyspnea and wheezing. Of 78 symptomatic subjects who were interviewed, 76% experienced improvement or absence of symptoms when off work. In 523 subjects who were assigned to specific levels of exposure at the end of follow-up, a dose-response gradient was found between the development of symptoms and fluoride exposure. Increased risk with increasing amounts of tobacco was also observed, but childhood allergy and a family history of asthma were not significantly related to the outcome variable. We conclude that both total fluoride exposure and smoking are related to asthmatic symptoms in potroom workers, and the suggestion of a dose-response gradient was found for both variables. However, a causal relationship between fluorides and symptoms should be investigated further by specific bronchial provocation testing and by research for specific antibodies and other immunologic markers. 
Preclinical detection in studies of the etiology, natural history, and treatment of Parkinson's disease. The development of reliable preclinical detection procedures for idiopathic Parkinson's disease may be the fundamental advance required for the establishment of the cause, the natural history, and ultimately, the prevention of this neurodegenerative disorder. The usefulness of these preclinical markers in efforts to better understand the etiology and development of this disorder will relate to whether they are direct measures of dopamine production or indirect measures such as metabolic changes or comorbidity, whether they can be used in the first or later decades of life, whether they are invasive, and whether they are expensive and sophisticated or simple and cheap. An overview of the criteria for evaluation of the utility of specific markers, as well as an assessment of the importance of early markers in future research, is presented. 
Opportunities to improve the cost-effectiveness of treatment for hypertension. The cost-effectiveness of treatment for hypertension depends on the pretreatment level of blood pressure, age and sex of the patient, presence of other cardiovascular risk factors, long-term control of blood pressure, and the annual costs of treatment. Treatment of very mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, 90-94 mm Hg), even if the benefits do exceed the risks, does not appear to be particularly cost-effective. Opportunities to improve the cost-effectiveness of hypertension management lie in 1) avoidance of patient mislabeling by careful documentation of blood pressures on multiple occasions in the office and during usual activities outside the office before the diagnosis is made and treatment is begun; 2) efforts to increase adherence to scheduled visits and medication regimens; 3) attempts to step-down dosages or discontinue medications after periods of good blood pressure control; 4) explicit consideration of costs, as well as benefits, in decisions on the needed frequency of office visits, choice of medications, and use of laboratory tests; and 5) efforts to improve practice efficiency. Future practice guidelines for hypertension management should take these factors into account and should make trade-offs between benefits, risks, and costs explicit for specific types of patients. 
Prevalence and clinical spectrum of skin diseases in kidney transplant recipients. Cutaneous lesions can be a significant problem in kidney transplant recipients. Factors such as climate and skin types have been implicated as modifiers of these clinical manifestations. With the purpose of determining the prevalence and clinical spectrum of skin diseases in a group of Hispanic kidney transplant recipients in a tropical climate, 82 serial unselected patients were examined. Seventy-eight were found to have some type of skin disease. Infections of the skin were the most common, followed by drug-induced changes and malignant or premalignant cutaneous tumors. Except for the preponderance of superficial mycotic infections, the overall results in our population are in agreement with other series. 
Helicobacter pylori infection induces antibodies cross-reacting with human gastric mucosa. The authors' previous observation that many of the monoclonal antibodies against Helicobacter pylori cross-react with the cells of the human gastric mucosa prompted them to investigate the possibility that gastric self-antigens cross-reacting with H. pylori could be involved in the immune response against this organism. It was found that three antibodies against H. pylori, CB-4, CB-10, and CB-14, that cross-react with the human gastric mucosa also intensely cross-reacted with murine gastric epithelial cells. A strong reaction against autologous mucosa was also evident in the sera of mice immunized with H. pylori but not with other bacteria. A serological study performed in a group of 82 patients undergoing gastroscopy showed that the presence of seropositivity against H. pylori was strongly correlated with the presence of autoantibodies against human antral gastric mucosa. This activity was neutralized after absorption of the sera with H. pylori but not with other gram-negative bacteria. The antibodies in the mouse and in the human did not react with other segments of the gastrointestinal tract or with most of the other organs. Mice bearing hybridomas secreting a cross-reacting antibody (CB-4) had histopathologic abnormalities in their stomachs. These lesions were absent in the stomachs of mice bearing hybridomas secreting a non-cross-reacting antibody (CB-26). It was concluded that H. pylori infection can stimulate antibodies cross-reacting with gastric autoantigens and that this immunologic mechanism may represent a pathogenic link between H. pylori and gastritis. 
Intraoperative identification of cardiac patients at risk to develop postoperative atrial fibrillation. Postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) is a complication occurring in 11% to 36% of patients after cardiac operations, which results in increased morbidity and hospital costs. A new electrophysiologic screening test was developed to identify those patients at risk for development of postoperative AF. The test was validated in 50 patients (43 men and 7 women) with a mean age of 59.6 +/- 1.3 years who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting with or without other cardiac surgical procedures. After aortic and venous cannulation, but before initiation of bypass, the mid-right atrium was stimulated with a bipolar probe at 25 microA for 3 seconds. Alternating current was increased by 25 microA until AF was induced or up to a maximum of 200 microA. Postoperative AF occurred in 18 patients (36%), 17 of whom had inducible AF (sensitivity = 0.94). Of the remaining 32 AF-free patients, 13 had negative tests (specificity = 0.41). Age and sex were not factors affecting inducibility, although patients who developed AF were older than those who were AF free (63.6 versus 57.3 years, p = 0.02). Length of stay in the intensive care unit was longer for those with postoperative AF than for AF-free patients (3.6 versus 1.9 days, p = 0.02). The negative predictive value of the test was 0.93, and the positive value was 0.47. These data show that this new intraoperative technique may be used to identify patients at risk for postoperative AF. Prophylactic therapy can therefore be directed to only those patients at risk for postoperative AF. 
Comparison of morbidity and function after colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis or restorative proctocolectomy for familial adenomatous polyposis. Restorative proctocolectomy with an ileal reservoir (RPC) should prevent colorectal cancer in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. Until this is confirmed its role compared with total colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis (IRA) will depend on the relative morbidity and postoperative bowel function after the two procedures. This was analysed in 99 patients (37 RPC, 62 IRA) operated on between 1977 and 1989. Morbidity was greater after RPC with subsequent ileostomy closure (median hospital stay, 24 versus 11 days; complications, 60 versus 21 per cent; reoperation, 29 versus 3 per cent; return to normal activity; 31 versus 14 weeks). There was little difference in bowel function; after IRA median frequency was 3/24 h and urgency (unable to wait 15 min) occurred in 50 per cent, compared with 4.5/24h and 17 per cent after RPC. Night evacuation occurred in 10 and 43 per cent respectively. IRA was performed in younger patients (median 19 versus 31 years) who had fewer bowel motions before operation (2 versus 5/24 h). The greater morbidity of RPC suggests that it should be restricted to patients at higher risk of developing later rectal cancer, including those unavailable for follow-up and those with large or confluent rectal polyps or with curable colon cancer at the initial colectomy. 
Anaphylactic reactions during general anesthesia among pediatric patients--United States, January 1990-January 1991. From March 1990 through January 1991, nine patients at one children's hospital in Wisconsin (hospital A) had onset of anaphylactic reactions (ARs) within 30 minutes following the start of general anesthesia; no patient had had a surgical incision at the time of their reaction. Eight of these patients required admission to the intensive care unit for supportive care. To determine the extent and potential source of the problem, an epidemiologic investigation was conducted at hospital A. 
Identification of a missense mutation in one allele of a patient with Pompe disease, and use of endonuclease digestion of PCR-amplified RNA to demonstrate lack of mRNA expression from the second allele. Infantile-onset glycogen storage disease type II, or Pompe disease, results from a genetic deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme acid alpha glucosidase (GAA). Sequencing of the cDNA from a cell line (GM 244) derived from a patient with Pompe disease demonstrated a T953-to-C transition that predicted a methionine-to-threonine substitution at codon 318. The basepair substitution resulted in loss of restriction-endonuclease sites for NcoI and StyI. Analysis of genomic DNA revealed both a normal and an abnormal NcoI fragment, indicating that the patient was a genetic compound. NcoI and StyI digestion of cDNA, amplified by PCR from reverse-transcribed RNA, demonstrated that greater than 95% of the GAA mRNA in GM 244 was derived from the allele carrying the missense mutation. The missense mutation was uncommon, since it was not detected in 37 additional GAA-deficient chromosomes, as determined by digestion of genomic DNA with NcoI and hybridization. The amino acid substitution predicts a new potential site for N-linked glycosylation, as well as major changes in secondary structure of the protein. We could confirm that the mutation was responsible for the enzyme deficiency by demonstrating that a hybrid minigene containing the mutation did not express GAA enzyme activity after transient gene expression. We have therefore now provided the first identification of a single-basepair missense mutation in a patient with Pompe disease and furthermore have demonstrated that the patient is a genetic compound with the second allele barely expressing mRNA. 
Inflammatory bowel disease. Part I: Nature and pathogenesis. Once regarded as medical curiosities, ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease have achieved a remarkable change in status recently and today are among the more compelling of all human illnesses. The cause(s) of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are not known. Genetic, environmental, microbial, and immunologic factors are involved, but the precise mechanisms are obscure. The incidence of ulcerative colitis is relatively stable, while Crohn's disease continues to increase in frequency. In 10% to 15% of patients, it is hard to differentiate between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's colitis; however, problems with diagnosis usually resolve with time and repeated examinations. In part I of his two-part monograph on IBD, Dr. Kirsner addresses the nature and pathogenesis of the disease. Increased study of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease in recent years has generated new knowledge regarding their etiology. Part I focuses on microbial, immunologic, and genetic mechanisms and the inflammatory processes involved in the disease. In part II, which will be presented in next month's issue of Disease-a-Month, Dr. Kirsner deals with the clinical features, course, and management of IBD, based on the author's 55 years of experience with these problems and supplemented by critical examination of the recent (1988-1990) literature. Particular attention is directed to the symptoms and physical findings of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, the laboratory, radiologic, endoscopic, and pathologic features, and the many systemic complications. The IBDs are mimicked by several enterocolonic infections and other conditions, making differential diagnosis necessary. Inflammatory bowel disease in children and the elderly conforms to conventional clinical patterns modified by the health circumstances of the respective age groups. Because the cause of IBD has not been established, current medical therapy is facilitative and supportive rather than curative. The principles of medical treatment are approximately the same for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Treatment emphasizes a program rather than a drug and also considers the individuality of the therapeutic response. A clearer understanding of dietary and nutritional needs, including hyperalimentation and electrolyte and fluid balance, aids treatment. Antidiarrheal and antispasmodic preparations and sedatives are prescribed for symptom relief. The bowel inflammation is controlled with sulfasalazine or the newer 5-amino salicylic acid (5-ASA) compounds, antibacterial drugs for complications of Crohn's disease and IBD, adrenocortical steroids, and the immunosuppressive compounds 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), azathioprine, and cyclosporine, as determined in each patient. The surgical procedures available for treatment of ulcerative colitis include total proctocolectomy and ileostomy or ileoanal anastomosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity in migraine: assessment by transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Cerebrovascular reactivity to CO2 inhalation was studied by transcranial Doppler sonography in 30 patients with classic or common migraine and 39 healthy controls without clinical or ultrasonic signs of arteriosclerosis. Systolic and diastolic Doppler frequencies of the middle cerebral artery were plotted against end-tidal CO2 partial pressure; the reactivity index (I x R) was defined as relative frequency change during a PCO2 increase of 5 mmHg. In the normal subjects, I x R was 20.0 +/- 6.3 for systolic velocities, and 26.0 +/- 8.2 for diastolic values. Migraineurs during their headache-free interval had significantly higher I x R values on the affected side (mean: 41.6 systolic, 61.2 diastolic), compared with either controls (P less than 0.01) or the contralateral side (mean: 28.3 systolic, 30.8 diastolic; P less than 0.01). During the headache attack, CO2 reactivity was significantly lower than normal only for systolic velocities (mean: 8.3; P less than 0.05). Increased CO2 reactivity is thought to be one phenomenon of migraine. Transcranial Doppler CO2 testing of cerebrovascular reactivity is a reliable method that may be of interest for the diagnostic evaluation and management of migraine patients. 
Methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin in metastatic breast cancer. A phase II trial of the Hoosier Oncology Group. Forty-six eligible patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) were treated with a combination of methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (M-VAC) as first-line chemotherapy. Of 44 patients evaluable for response, 28 (64%) had an objective response, including seven (16%) who had a complete response. The median duration of response was 4 months (range, 0 to 38 months), and the median survival from the time of entry was 14 months (range, less than 1 to greater than 45 months). Myelosuppression was the most common dose-limiting toxicity, with 54% of patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 leukopenia (including 28% with granulocytopenic fever and one septic death), and cumulative Grade 3 anemia occurred in 28% of patients. Grades 3 to 4 stomatitis was observed in 18% of patients. An active, although highly toxic regimen when used as first-line therapy in MBC, M-VAC has a response rate and survival duration similar to existing, less toxic combination regimens. As such, M-VAC cannot be recommended in preference to other combination chemotherapy regimens in this clinical setting. 
Urodynamic evaluation of the patient with an imperforate anus: a prospective study. Prospective urodynamic evaluation of 14 patients with an imperforate anus revealed detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia in 4. Subsequent contrast voiding cystourethrograms demonstrated radiographic changes in all 4 cases, consisting of bladder trabeculation, new onset of vesicoureteral reflux or hydroureteronephrosis. Of the 4 patients 3 had a high (supralevator) imperforate anus, while 1 had a low (infralevator) lesion. Two patients had bony vertebral abnormalities and 2 had normal plain radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine. Therefore, early urodynamic study is recommended for all patients with an imperforate anus and it should complement neonatal uroradiographic evaluation. The finding of detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia should alert the urologist to the need for adjunctive management. 
Central arteriovenous malformations of the maxillofacial skeleton: case report. Central arteriovenous malformation of the maxillofacial skeleton, though rare, is a well-documented entity. Past treatments have usually included some form of surgical intervention. Surgical resection as an attempt to cure has been effective but costly, ie, in relationship to patient morbidity and hospital expenditures. A case of vascular malformation is presented in which selective angiography and embolization as a primary treatment were used rather than ablative surgery. The patient tolerated the procedures well, with complete resolution of bleeding. 
Comparison of the results of electrophysiologic testing after short-term and long-term treatment with amiodarone in patients with ventricular tachycardia. The results of electrophysiologic testing after short-term and long-term treatment with amiodarone were compared in 71 patients with ventricular tachycardia. Electrophysiologic testing was performed in the baseline state after 11 +/- 3 days of treatment with 1.2 to 2.4 gm/day of amiodarone, and after 13 +/- 4 weeks of therapy with a daily amiodarone dose of 400 mg. After short-term therapy, 62% of the patients had an adequate response to amiodarone. In 27 patients who were hemodynamically unstable, ventricular tachycardia was induced and became noninducible or hemodynamically stable after combination therapy with a class I agent. Among 18 patients who did not have inducible ventricular tachycardia after short-term therapy, eight (44%) had inducible, hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia after long-term treatment with amiodarone. On the other hand, six of the 27 patients who had hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia after short-term therapy had an adequate response after long-term treatment with amiodarone. Therefore an adequate electrophysiologic response after short-term therapy does not guarantee a similar response after long-term treatment, and an inadequate response after short-term therapy does not always predict a similar response after long-term therapy. 
Stress analgesia: the opioid analgesia of long swims suppresses the non-opioid analgesia induced by short swims in mice. In mice, room temperature swimming for as short a period as 15 sec has been found to induce a non-opioid analgesia with a time course of 10-12 min. As the duration of the swim is increased, an opioid analgesia develops with a longer persistence (25-30 min); the development of the opioid analgesia appears to suppress the expression of the non-opioid analgesia so that none of the latter is evident after 3 min swims. The characteristics of the tail-flick nociceptive test are also described. 
Health inequalities among British civil servants: the Whitehall II study The Whitehall study of British civil servants begun in 1967, showed a steep inverse association between social class, as assessed by grade of employment, and mortality from a wide range of diseases. Between 1985 and 1988 we investigated the degree and causes of the social gradient in morbidity in a new cohort of 10,314 civil servants (6900 men, 3414 women) aged 35-55 (the Whitehall II study). Participants were asked to answer a self-administered questionnaire and attend a screening examination. In the 20 years separating the two studies there has been no diminution in social class difference in morbidity: we found an inverse association between employment grade and prevalence of angina, electrocardiogram evidence of ischaemia, and symptoms of chronic bronchitis. Self-perceived health status and symptoms were worse in subjects in lower status jobs. There were clear employment-grade differences in health-risk behaviours including smoking, diet, and exercise, in economic circumstances, in possible effects of early-life environment as reflected by height, in social circumstances at work (eg, monotonous work characterised by low control and low satisfaction), and in social supports. Healthy behaviours should be encouraged across the whole of society; more attention should be paid to the social environments, job design, and the consequences of income inequality. 
Magnesium sulfate reverses experimental delayed cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats. We induced experimental delayed cerebral vasospasm by the intracisternal injection of greater than 0.5 ml blood in 30 rats. Seventy-two hours later the basilar artery was exposed via the transclival approach and photographed at high-power magnification through an operating microscope. We then evaluated the effect of topical (n = 30) and intravenous (n = 20) magnesium sulfate on the spastic artery by computerized image analysis. A greater than 50% reduction in baseline diameter of the basilar artery was observed in the rats subjected to subarachnoid hemorrhage compared with the 10 controls (p less than 0.0001). Intravenous magnesium sulfate dilated the spastic artery to approximately 75% of the baseline diameter in control rats (p less than 0.0001). Topical magnesium sulfate caused dramatic dilation of the basilar artery in both the control and the subarachnoid hemorrhage groups to near 150% of the baseline diameter in the controls (p less than 0.001). All rats receiving intravenous magnesium sulfate reached therapeutic plasma levels of the ion. Hemodynamic effects were mild and immediately reversible upon cessation of magnesium sulfate administration. We suggest that magnesium has a role in the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced vasospasm in humans. 
Comparison of the predictive characteristics of heart rate variability index and left ventricular ejection fraction for all-cause mortality, arrhythmic events and sudden death after acute myocardial infarction. Heart rate (HR) variability index and left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) were compared for the prediction of all-cause mortality, arrhythmic events and sudden death in 385 survivors of acute myocardial infarction. For arrhythmic events, where, for a sensitivity of 75%, HR variability index had a specificity of 76%, EF had a specificity of only 45%. An EF of less than or equal to 40% had a sensitivity of 42% and a specificity of 75% for arrhythmic events; for the same sensitivity an HR variability index of 20 U had a specificity of 92%. An EF less than or equal to 40% had a sensitivity of 40% and a specificity of 73% for sudden death; HR variability index had a specificity of 83% for the same sensitivity. For all cause mortality, where, for a sensitivity of 75%, HR variability index had a specificity of 52%, EF had a specificity of 40%. It is concluded that HR variability index appears a better predictor of important postinfarction arrhythmic complications than left ventricular EF, but both indexes perform equally well in predicting all-cause mortality. 
Iodine-125 seed implantation as an adjunct to surgery in advanced recurrent squamous cell cancer of the head and neck. Survival for extensive recurrent squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck remains poor, with the major cause of death being local recurrence. Surgical implantation of iodine-125 interstitial seeds allows tumoricidal doses of radiation to be delivered to residual tumor while minimizing radiation doses to the surrounding tissues. From 1978 to 1988, 39 implantations were performed on 35 patients for extensive recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. The decision for implantation was based on positive margins or close to resection margins from frozen sections after salvage resection. The determinate 5-year disease-free survival was 41%, with both the overall and no evidence of disease 5-year survivals being 29%. Significant complications occurred in 36% of all cases. This figure increased to 56% when flap reconstruction was required. Possible reasons for this seemingly high complication rate are discussed. Considering the advanced nature of these recurrent carcinomas, surgical resection with iodine-125 seed implantation appears to be an effective method of managing disease that might otherwise be judged unresectable and treated for palliation only. 
Cycling and the older athlete. Cycling provides a dynamic form of aerobic and anaerobic fitness to more than 86 million Americans. It provides a freedom that is attractive to individuals of any age, either sex, and any body type. It does not require specialized experience or coordination. In the older athlete, injuries result primarily from overuse or abuse, and are most common in the upper extremity. Such injuries are most often compressive and inflammatory syndromes. These injuries are in marked contrast to those seen in the younger cyclist. Both groups have a low and similar incidence of accident. Overuse injuries can be treated effectively by altering training technique, correcting rider malposition, and decreasing excessive stress, in conjunction with appropriate medical management. Prevention of injury (particularly overuse) is the key to avoiding recurrence. Appropriate frame size, rider position, personalized training techniques, and clothing are essential in the older athlete in whom change is poorly tolerated. Fitness is preserved by regular cycling, possibly by the slowing of the degenerative process, while relieving mental stress and providing "fun sport.". 
The first epidemic of dengue hemorrhagic fever in the People's Republic of China. The first epidemic of dengue in China associated with significant severe and fatal hemorrhagic disease which met the World Health Organization case definition occurred on Hainan Island in 1985-1986. The epidemic began in Zhan County in September 1985, spread throughout the coastal areas, and ultimately involved 13 counties and cities of the island in 1986. The mosquito vector was Aedes aegypti. The morbidity associated with dengue infection on Hainan Island was 1,913 per 100,000 residents, with a case fatality rate of 0.25%. Severe disease was more prevalent in the 10-29-year-old age group. Principal clinical features in laboratory-confirmed cases were fever, osteoarthralgia, hemorrhage and/or shock, and thrombocytopenia. Complications such as acute intravascular hemolysis, diffuse intravascular coagulation, hemoconcentration, pleural effusion, altered mentality, and pneumonia were also observed. One hundred twenty-five isolates of dengue 2 virus were recovered from acute-phase serum samples from 278 patients, and 5 strains of this same virus serotype were isolated from 5 pools of adult Ae. aegypti. 
Neglected topics in the treatment of chronic pain patients--relapse, noncompliance, and adherence enhancement. Although published treatment outcome studies for chronic pain have provided favorable support for the efficacy of many pain clinics and the use of specific modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation, there are several factors that mitigate against euphoria. Two related factors that influence interpretation of these reported outcomes are discussed, namely, noncompliance with therapeutic recommendations during treatment and subsequent to treatment termination, and relapse. Conceptual and methodological problems for establishing the prevalence of noncompliance and relapse are reviewed. Several factors that contribute to noncompliance (individual differences, nature of disease or injury, characteristics of the prescribed treatment regimen, health-care provider-patient relationship, and contextual) are discussed. The literature reveals that noncompliance with treatment regimens is quite prevalent across diverse treatment modalities and pain syndromes. The incidence of relapse following initially successful treatment of persistent pain also appears to be high, ranging from 30% to 60%. Studies on arthritis and heterogeneous pain clinic populations suggest that noncompliance and relapse are related; however, this association is less well established for headache patients. Strategies for assessing compliance (i.e., self-report, behavioral, biochemical, and clinical outcome) and the perspectives' of patients and health-care providers on the application of self-care recommendations are discussed. Strategic planning and adherence enhancement tactics to facilitate maintenance of post-treatment gains are described. 
Ocular findings in Turcot syndrome (glioma-polyposis). Turcot syndrome is a hereditary condition characterized by multiple, adenomatous gastrointestinal polyps associated with neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system. The authors examined a patient with Turcot syndrome who had multiple regions of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (CHRPE) with areas of surrounding hypopigmentation in the fundi of both eyes. Multiple, bilateral patches of CHRPE have been reported in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis and Gardner syndrome. This finding is thought to be a sensitive and specific clinical marker for these conditions and useful for predicting the presence and development of colorectal polyposis. Our findings provide further evidence that familial adenomatous polyposis, Gardner syndrome, and Turcot syndrome may be related conditions representing the variable phenotypic expression of a single, autosomal dominant genetic disorder. Children and young adults with multiple patches of CHRPE and a family history of adenomatous polyposis may be at increased risk for the development of central nervous system tumors as well as gastrointestinal polyps. 
High risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix for women with HLA-DQw3. Many immune responses are controlled by genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). In man these include the loci encoding the HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR, -DQ and -DP antigens, and many diseases have been linked with these. But attempts to identify HLA genes in man that might explain why an immune response against malignant tumours should be ineffective have so far been disappointing, apart from the association reported between the HLA-DR1 antigen and a susceptibility to a rare carcinoma of the thyroid gland. Here we describe another strong connection between a common malignant tumour and an HLA antigen, namely between HLA-DQw3 and squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix: from the 1988 United States tumour registry, 1 in every 63 newborn girls will develop this invasive cancer. We found that 88% of 66 patients had the leukocyte antigen HLA-DQw3 when it would normally be expected in only 50% of individuals. In animals the immune system and the MHC act in defence against virally induced tumours, but until now there has been no evidence that they do so in humans: as squamous cell carcinoma is probably virally induced, our discovery of its association with an HLA antigen will be important to the understanding of the immunogenetic basis of a susceptibility to this tumour. 
Aerosol pentamidine for secondary prophylaxis of AIDS-related Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. A randomized, placebo-controlled study. OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety and efficacy of aerosol pentamidine for secondary prophylaxis of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). PARTICIPANTS: Patients recovering from a first confirmed episode of AIDS-related P. carinii pneumonia who had no evidence of either another active AIDS-defining opportunistic infection or another pulmonary abnormality were considered eligible for the study but were included only if they had received no immunomodulators or antiretroviral agents other than zidovudine within 30 days of entry. One hundred sixty-two patients were randomized and started on the study drug. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive aerosol pentamidine, 60 mg per dose, or placebo, delivered using a hand-held, patient-triggered, ultrasonic nebulizer. The induction phase of treatment consisted of 5 doses over 14 days, followed by a maintenance phase beginning on day 21 and consisting of one dose every 2 weeks. RESULTS: Thirty-two cases of P. carinii pneumonia were diagnosed before the termination of the trial; 27 cases occurred among 78 patients receiving placebo and 5 occurred among 84 patients receiving aerosol pentamidine. Estimates of the cumulative relapse rate of P. carinii pneumonia by 24 weeks were 50% and 9% for the placebo and pentamidine groups, respectively (P less than 0.001). Adverse reactions attributed to the study drug occurred in 15 of 78 patients receiving placebo and in 28 of 84 patients receiving pentamidine (P = 0.04). These were all mild or moderate in severity and did not preclude continued administration of the study drug. CONCLUSION: Intermittent therapy with aerosol pentamidine is highly effective and well tolerated as secondary prophylaxis for AIDS-related P. carinii pneumonia. 
CT of the gastrointestinal tract: principles and interpretation. The experience accumulated in daily abdominal CT scanning and CT evaluation of gastrointestinal lesions has generated helpful technical guidelines and some reliable principles of interpretation. These general principles are briefly discussed in this review, and the importance of performing a CT examination that is adequate for the detection and evaluation of gastrointestinal lesions is stressed. CT features useful in differentiating benign from malignant lesions, limitations and pitfalls in CT interpretation, overlap in the CT appearance, and classical CT features leading to specific diagnoses are described and illustrated. Although CT is established as one of the most important techniques for imaging the gastrointestinal tract, it should be used selectively and only in the context of appropriate clinical and conventional radiologic examination. CT should not be regarded as competing with, but as complementing, barium examination of the gastrointestinal tract. 
Impairment of left ventricular function during coronary angioplastic occlusion evaluated with a nonimaging scintillation probe. Impairment of left ventricular function during controlled myocardial ischemia induced by coronary angioplasty has been reported from angiographic and echocardiographic studies. Ejection fraction, peak ejection, peak filling rates, and end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes were investigated before, during and after coronary occlusion on-line with a nonimaging scintillation probe. The study consisted of 18 patients (mean age 59 +/- 10 years) with coronary artery stenosis of greater than 70%. During balloon inflation of 60 seconds' duration, coronary occlusion pressure was 31.6 +/- 12 mm Hg. There was no significant change in heart rate. Delay between first and second dilatation was 109 +/- 63 seconds. Ejection fraction decreased from 53 +/- 16 to 40 +/- 12% (first dilatation, p less than 0.01) and to 39 +/- 14% (second dilatation, p less than 0.01) and recovered to 51 +/- 16% 5 minutes after the second dilatation. Peak ejection rate was significantly reduced during the first and second balloon inflations. Peak filling rate decreased from 2.5 +/- 0.8 to 2.0 +/- 0.7 end-diastolic volume.s-1 (first dilatation, p less than 0.01) and to 1.8 +/- 0.7 end-diastolic volume.s-1 (second dilatation, p less than 0.01) and remained reduced at 2.2 +/- 0.7 end-diastolic volume.s-1 (p = not significant) at 5 minutes after the second dilatation. End-systolic and end-diastolic volumes increased significantly during the first and second dilatations and returned to normal after dilatation. It is concluded that short, controlled myocardial ischemia during coronary angioplasty leads to a decrease in systolic and diastolic left ventricular function. Sequential dilatations do not further decrease function if a sufficient interval is kept. 
Severe hypertension with segmental renal infarction following surgical removal of a retroperitoneal malignant hemangiopericytoma: a case report. Severe hypertension developed in a fifty-five year-old woman after surgical removal of a retroperitoneal tumor, when the renal artery was injured. Renal arteriography after the surgery demonstrated a segmental infarction of the right kidney. A close relationship between activation of the renin-angiotensin system and the development of severe hypertension was observed. Satisfactory control of blood pressure concomitant with reduction of plasma renin activity was achieved by a combination of an angiotensin-converting anzyme inhibitor, beta-blocking agent, and calcium-entry blocker. The mechanism of activation of the renin-angiotensin system in renal infarction is discussed. 
Delayed time to peak serum myoglobin level as an indicator of cardiac dysfunction following open heart surgery. Postoperative changes in serum myoglobin levels have been studied in 47 patients undergoing open heart surgery. The patients were retrospectively divided into two groups according to the time to peak myoglobin level during reperfusion. In 38 patients, myoglobin levels increased rapidly to a peak within 3 hours after reperfusion, after which it was cleared from the blood (group 1). Contrarily, a rise in myoglobin levels was persistent for 24 hours and its time to peak was greater than 3 hours after reperfusion in nine patients (group 2). There were no differences in preoperative and early reperfusion (within 1 hour of reperfusion) values of myoglobin between the two groups. At 3, 6, and 12 hours of reperfusion, myoglobin levels were significantly greater in group 2: 448 +/- 196 vs 1,149 +/- 900 ng/ml, 359 +/- 172 vs 2,653 +/- 3,179 ng/ml, 184 +/- 95 vs 1,896 +/- 1,387 ng/ml, respectively, p less than 0.0001 in each. The maximum activities of both myoglobin and CK-MB were significantly higher in group 2 (myoglobin-max: 771 +/- 257 vs 3,221 +/- 3,024 ng/ml, p less than 0.0001; CK-MBmax: 107 +/- 60 vs 227 +/- 219 IU/L, p less than 0.005). Five of nine patients in group 2 required post-operative assistance with intra-aortic balloon pumping (p less than 0.0005 compared with one of 38 in group 1) and perioperative myocardial infarction developed in three patients (33.3 percent) in this group (p less than 0.005 compared with 0 percent in group 1). Thus, patients with a delayed peak of serum myoglobin level exhibited detrimental cardiac failure postoperatively. These findings suggest that myocardial injury accelerated by reperfusion following ischemia might progress in these patients. 
Prior poliomyelitis-reduced capillary supply and metabolic enzyme content in hypertrophic slow-twitch (type I) muscle fibres. Capillary supply and oxidative and glycolytic enzyme activities were determined in muscle biopsies from the tibialis anterior muscle in six prior polio patients and a control group. The polio patients, who had paresis and atrophy, but were able to walk normally by making maximal use of all remaining anterior tibial motor units, showed type I (slow-twitch) muscle fibre predominance with a mean (SD) of 98 (2%) type I fibres versus 81 (8)% in the controls (p less than 0.01) and muscle fibre hypertrophy, the average type I fibre cross-sectional area being 108% (p less than 0.005) larger than in the controls. The number of capillaries per muscle fibre was not significantly different from that in the control group, but with the increased muscle fibre area in the polio patients, the capillary density was significantly lower. The number of capillaries in contact with type I fibres relative to fibre area was 40% lower in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.005). The levels of citrate synthase and phosphofructokinase were significantly lower (38% and 33%, respectively, p less than 0.05) in the patients than in the controls, indicating decreased oxidative and glycolytic potentials in the muscle fibres of the polio patients. It is proposed that the abnormal high-frequency activation of all remaining motor units during each step cycle recorded in these patients constitutes a stimulus for type I muscle fibre predominance and hypertrophy but that the overall low muscle usage results in a decreased stimulation of capillary proliferation and mitochondrial enzyme synthesis. 
Increased circulating levels of bromocriptine after vaginal compared with oral administration. OBJECTIVE: To compare the circulating levels of bromocriptine after oral and vaginal administration of the drug. DESIGN: Experimental PARTICIPANTS: Seven ovulatory female volunteers and one hyperprolactinemic patient. INTERVENTIONS: Ovulatory volunteers were randomized to receive either oral or vaginal bromocriptine (2.5 mg). In a second session, the subjects were crossed-over to bromocriptine by the alternate route. An additional hyperprolactinemic patient received vaginal bromocriptine only. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Serum bromocriptine and prolactin (PRL) levels were measured hourly for 12 hours in the normal volunteers and for 10 hours in the hyperprolactinemic patient. RESULTS: Circulating bromocriptine levels were significantly higher after vaginal bromocriptine after the 7th hour (P less than 0.05). The reduction in serum PRL was significantly greater after oral administration between 2 and 6 hours. CONCLUSIONS: Vaginally administered bromocriptine may result in a reduction in the overall dose required, thereby improving compliance without compromising therapeutic efficacy. 
Left neglect for near but not far space in man. It has been suggested that, among the many visual areas of the human brain, there might be one set of spatial maps specialized for 'near' (peripersonal) and another for 'far' (extrapersonal) space. A distinction between 'grasping distance' and 'walking distance', or between a 'reaching field' and a pointing or throwing field has commonly been made. Evidence for such a division has been found in monkeys. Unilateral ablation of the frontal eye field (area 8) produces a more prominent inattention (or 'neglect') for objects in contralesional far space than in near space; by contrast, unilateral ablation of frontal area 6, which receives direct projections from area 7b (the rostral part of the inferior parietal lobules) results in inattention to visual stimuli limited to contralesional near space. Despite predictions that comparable dissociations should be found in man, there has been no convincing evidence. We report here such evidence in a patient with a unilateral right hemisphere stroke. Within peripersonal space, he showed severe left visuo-spatial neglect on conventional tests, including the highly sensitive task of line bisection. When line bisection was performed in extrapersonal space, neglect was abolished or attenuated. 
Perinatal outcome of fetal complete atrioventricular block: a multicenter experience. The clinical course and outcome of 55 fetuses with complete atrioventricular (AV) block detected prenatally were studied to identify factors that affect the natural history of this lesion. In 29 fetuses (53%) complete AV block was associated with complex structural heart defects, usually left atrial isomerism (n = 17) or discordant AV connection (n = 7). The other 26 fetuses had normal cardiac anatomy; in 19 cases the mother had connective tissue disease or tested positive for antinuclear antibodies. Six fetuses showed progression from sinus rhythm or second degree block to complete AV block. Of the 55 pregnancies, 5 were terminated and 24 fetuses or neonates died; at the end of the neonatal period 26 fetuses were still alive. Fetal or neonatal death correlated significantly with the presence of structural heart defects (4 of 29 surviving, p less than 0.001), hydrops (0 of 22 surviving, p less than 0.001), an atrial rate less than or equal to 120 beats/min (1 of 12 surviving, p less than 0.005) or a ventricular rate less than or equal to 55 beats/min (3 of 21 surviving, p less than 0.001). Mean atrial and ventricular rates were higher in surviving than in nonsurviving fetuses (142 +/- 8 vs. 127 +/- 21 beats/min, p less than 0.002; 64 +/- 8 vs. 52 +/- 8 beats/min, p less than 0.001, respectively). A slow atrial rate, however, was frequently associated with left atrial isomerism. 
Intrapericardial OK-432 instillation for the management of malignant pericardial effusion. Ten patients with malignant pericardial effusion were treated with intrapericardial injection of OK-432 (penicillin-treated and heat-treated lyophilized powder of the substrain of Streptococcus pyogenes A3). After intrapericardial insertion of a catheter, a maximal volume of pericardial fluid was withdrawn with cytologic confirmation of malignancy. Five or 10 Klinische Einheit (KE) (KE is a unit used to express the strength of a preparation) of OK-432 diluted in 20 ml of saline was injected into the pericardial space in seven and three patients, respectively. It was repeated in case of reaccumulation. Seven patients were treated only once and the remaining three required a second treatment. Complete control of pericardial effusion was achieved in all patients for an average of 329 days (range, 54 to 790 days). Fever and chest pain were experienced in six and five patients, respectively, but were controlled with antipyretics. Two of three patients who received 10 KE of OK-432 experienced hypotension that was successfully controlled with vasopressor drugs with or without reaspiration of pericardial fluid. Rapid reactive reaccumulation of the pericardial fluid was thought to be a cause of hypotension. A follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan was performed in seven patients and a thickened pericardium was noticed in five; no patients had constrictive pericarditis. These results suggest that intrapericardial administration of 5 KE of OK-432 is an effective and safe treatment for malignant pericardial effusion. 
Digitally-directed transrectal biopsy using Biopty gun versus transrectal needle aspiration: comparison of diagnostic yield and comfort. A technique for digitally-directed core biopsy using the Biopty device and prospective comparison of accuracy and comfort, using this technique simultaneously with transrectal needle aspiration, are presented. To better estimate the true prevalence of carcinoma in the study population, a repeat combined procedure was performed on all subjects who did not have carcinoma confirmed on the initial core biopsies. All procedures were done by one investigator and all pathology reviewed by one senior pathologist. A total of 180 combined procedures were performed on 100 consecutive patients with palpably abnormal prostates; 30 carcinomas were detected. Digitally-directed Biopty biopsy yielded a sensitivity rate of 87 percent compared with 57 percent for needle aspiration (p less than 0.05). Using a numerical comfort scale, the Biopty device was also rated less painful than needle aspiration (p = 0.0001). The morbidity of the combined procedure was minimal, with a minor complication rate of 2.2 percent. No infections occurred. 
Epidemiologic correlates of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We evaluated 74 selected patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 201 matched controls for risk factors for ALS by a case-control design and a sequential questionnaire/interview technique to quantitate biographic data. We analyzed occupational and recreational data only for 47 male patients and 47 corresponding patient controls; data for women were insufficient. We used nonparametric analyses to evaluate five primary comparisons of ALS patients with controls: (1) more hard physical labor, p not significant (NS); (2) greater frequency of neurodegenerative disease in family members, p NS; (3) greater exposure to lead, p less than 0.05; (4) more years lived in a rural community, p NS; and (5) more trauma or major surgery, p NS. Men with ALS had worked more frequently at blue-collar jobs (although not a statistically significant difference, p = 0.10) and at welding or soldering (p less than 0.01). These results suggest that there may be an association between ALS in men and exposure to lead vapor. The limited nature of the association favors a multifactorial etiologic mechanism of ALS. 
Proportionate mortality trends: 1950 through 1986 Mortality trends in the United States from 1950 through 1986 were analyzed for the conditions that are or have recently been among the six leading causes of death. The age-adjusted mortality rate for all causes has decreased from 841.5 to 541.7 per 100,000 population. Cause-specific, age-adjusted mortality rates have declined from 1950 through 1986 for cerebrovascular disease, injuries, perinatal conditions, heart disease, and influenza and pneumonia. Time trends in the proportion of persons dying of each of these diseases, however, have varied; the proportion dying of cerebrovascular disease, injuries, and perinatal conditions has decreased, and the proportion of persons dying of heart disease and influenza and pneumonia has remained fairly stable from 1950 through 1986. During this same time, age-adjusted death rates have increased for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and have remained fairly stable for malignant neoplasms, while the proportions of persons dying of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and malignant neoplasms have increased dramatically. For people aged 35 to 64 years, malignant neoplasms have now overtaken heart disease as the leading cause of death. For those aged 65 years and older, heart disease remains the leading cause of death, accounting for almost 50% of all deaths in persons 85 years and older. 
Delayed time to peak serum myoglobin level as an indicator of cardiac dysfunction following open heart surgery. Postoperative changes in serum myoglobin levels have been studied in 47 patients undergoing open heart surgery. The patients were retrospectively divided into two groups according to the time to peak myoglobin level during reperfusion. In 38 patients, myoglobin levels increased rapidly to a peak within 3 hours after reperfusion, after which it was cleared from the blood (group 1). Contrarily, a rise in myoglobin levels was persistent for 24 hours and its time to peak was greater than 3 hours after reperfusion in nine patients (group 2). There were no differences in preoperative and early reperfusion (within 1 hour of reperfusion) values of myoglobin between the two groups. At 3, 6, and 12 hours of reperfusion, myoglobin levels were significantly greater in group 2: 448 +/- 196 vs 1,149 +/- 900 ng/ml, 359 +/- 172 vs 2,653 +/- 3,179 ng/ml, 184 +/- 95 vs 1,896 +/- 1,387 ng/ml, respectively, p less than 0.0001 in each. The maximum activities of both myoglobin and CK-MB were significantly higher in group 2 (myoglobin-max: 771 +/- 257 vs 3,221 +/- 3,024 ng/ml, p less than 0.0001; CK-MBmax: 107 +/- 60 vs 227 +/- 219 IU/L, p less than 0.005). Five of nine patients in group 2 required post-operative assistance with intra-aortic balloon pumping (p less than 0.0005 compared with one of 38 in group 1) and perioperative myocardial infarction developed in three patients (33.3 percent) in this group (p less than 0.005 compared with 0 percent in group 1). Thus, patients with a delayed peak of serum myoglobin level exhibited detrimental cardiac failure postoperatively. These findings suggest that myocardial injury accelerated by reperfusion following ischemia might progress in these patients. 
Altered corticospinal projections to lower limb motoneurons in subjects with cerebral palsy. The projections of cortical neurons activated by transcranial magnetic stimulation to the motoneurons of lower limb muscles were examined in 22 normal subjects and 14 subjects with cerebral palsy (CP). In normal subjects, magnetic stimulation produced strong facilitation of tibialis anterior (TA) motoneurons, but little or no facilitation of soleus (SOL) motoneurons. This differential facilitation of TA and SOL motoneurons was observed at all stimulus sites on the scalp and all stimulus intensities at which responses could be elicited. In subjects with CP, magnetic stimulation produced almost equal facilitation of TA and SOL motoneurons. This could not be explained by differences in the excitability of the respective motoneuron pools. It is postulated that the projections from the motor cortex to spinal motoneurons are altered in CP. These abnormal projections may contribute to the impairment of voluntary movements experienced by these subjects. 
HLA-DR antigen expression on peripheral blood monocytes correlates with surgical infection. Monocyte human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR) expression has correlated closely with clinical outcome in severely injured patients at high risk for infection. Monocytes from 77 asymptomatic volunteers expressed HLA-DR antigen with minimal variability in respect to age, gender, race, time of day or year, or serum alcohol level. Patients who developed infection after elective laparotomy had a significantly lower mean percentage of monocytes expressing HLA-DR antigen and a lower mean fluorescent intensity than uninfected patients (p less than 0.05). Severely infected nonsurgical patients had significantly lower values than normal volunteers (p less than 0.01), and the mean fluorescent intensity of those who died from infection was significantly lower than that of those who survived (p less than 0.05). Patients on immunosuppressive regimens after renal transplantation had levels of HLA-DR expression similar to those of the volunteers. Monocyte HLA-DR expression was found to be a reliable marker of clinical infection and showed remarkable reproducibility within the normal uninfected study population. 
The natural history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. Highly uncommon or highly unrecognized? Among 2000 descendants of an English immigrant to Tasmania, Australia, the diagnosis of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 was found to be very highly probable or highly probable in 130 and moderately probable in 22. Another 242 children and siblings were 50% likely to have inherited this dominant gene. In all age groups, especially the elderly, the majority of affected members had symptoms of only one endocrine disorder or were asymptomatic. In teenagers, the most common presentation was pituitary lesions and the second most common presentation was insulinomas. Frequently, pituitary lesions or insulinomas developed before any parathyroid lesions could be detected. Elevation of gastrin levels, usually associated with hypercalcemia, was rarely seen in patients younger than 25 years. The classic presentation with symptoms of multiple endocrinopathy may represent only a small fraction of these patients in the community. 
Identification of perilymph proteins by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Perilymph has a total protein component that is quantitatively distinct from serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The goal of this research was to determine if perilymph contains any qualitatively unique protein constituents that will distinguish it from serum or CSF. To test this hypothesis, matched sets of perilymph, serum, and CSF were obtained from 18 guinea pigs and seven human subjects. The purity of each sample was assured by measurement of the protein concentration of each sample and comparison of this parameter to known normal values for perilymph, serum, and CSF. Each sample was then subjected to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, separating proteins by isoelectric point in the horizontal dimension and by relative molecular weight in the vertical dimension. All gels were processed under precisely identical physical conditions by use of a diamine silver stain. A small number of perilymph proteins not found in plasma were identified in both the guinea pig and the human specimens. The finding of unique perilymph proteins may permit the development of a sensitive marker that will aid in the diagnosis of perilymph fistula. 
Association of supraglottic and gingival idiopathic plasmacytosis. Three cases of gingival plasmacytosis in which laryngeal symptoms eventually developed are reported. Two of the three patients underwent endoscopic biopsy of supraglottic lesions, which proved to be similar to those in the oral cavity. The third patient had supraglottic erythema only and was not subjected to biopsy. Known etiologic factors associated with plasma cell gingivitis were excluded. Treatment with oral and topical steroids resulted in good control of the lesions. 
Prognostic significance of acute epilepsia partialis continua. We present 3 patients in whom epilepsia partialis continua was the presenting sign of an acute, rapidly evolving and catastrophic neurologic illness. Initial seizures were partial simple (i.e., eye deviation in one, finger twitching in one) which progressed to multifocal partial seizures. The course of the epilepsia partialis continua was 36-41 days. Prognosis was uniformly poor (i.e., death in 2, vegetative state in 1); therefore, epilepsia partialis continua in the context of an acute neurologic illness may herald a grim outcome. 
Effects of electrophysiologic testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator on left ventricular systolic function and diastolic filling. We investigated the effects of electrophysiologic testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD) on left ventricular systolic function and diastolic filling in 12 patients. Ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation was induced by programmed electrical stimulation and alternating-current, respectively. Patients were studied before and immediately after, 10 minutes after, and 1 hour after defibrillation by the AICD using M-mode, two-dimensional, and pulsed Doppler echocardiography. Immediately after defibrillation, increases were found in the peak early filling velocity (70 +/- 10 cm/sec to 84 +/- 24 cm/sec, p less than 0.01), peak early-to-atrial filling velocity ratio (1.05 +/- 0.21 to 1.29 +/- 0.26, p less than 0.005), and maximum rate of diastolic chamber enlargement (82 +/- 26 mm/sec to 102 +/- 44 mm/sec, p less than 0.05). These changes were not evident at 10 minutes and 1 hour. Cardiac output and ejection fraction were unchanged after defibrillation. Heart rate and diastolic filling time were unchanged. We conclude that electrophysiologic testing of the AICD does not impair left ventricular function in the immediate to 1-hour period after defibrillation. Left ventricular systolic function is unchanged and diastolic filling is enhanced. 
Association between plasma viscosity and blood pressure. Results from the MONICA-project Augsburg. The relationship between determinants of blood viscosity and blood pressure (BP) variables was studied in a large sample of a population aged 25 to 64 years. Plasma viscosity, hemoglobin, and total serum protein were examined. Systolic and diastolic BP and the prevalence of hypertension showed a crude positive association with plasma viscosity levels in both sexes. Age, body mass index, and total serum protein appeared to have a confounding effect on this relationship, whereas hemoglobin, smoking behavior, and alcohol consumption did not. A crude positive association was also found between total serum protein levels and the prevalence of hypertension in men and women; however, since total serum protein was treated as a covariable, no further analyses were carried out. In contrast to findings reported in the literature, hemoglobin levels were not correlated with BP variables in either sex. After adjusting for all confounders, a significant main effect of plasma viscosity still was found. However, the magnitude of the effect was not as large as for body mass index, a well-established risk variable for hypertension. These results indicate that BP is positively associated with plasma viscosity. Whether increased plasma viscosity in hypertension constitutes a primary or a secondary phenomenon remains to be answered. Since plasma viscosity is significantly associated with hypertension but any BP variable, increased levels of plasma proteins (particularly fibrinogen as the main determinant of plasma viscosity) may represent the cause for elevated plasma viscosity. This might contribute to persistently increased resistance to blood flow on the microcirculatory level in arterial hypertension. 
Fibroblast stimulation in schistosomiasis. XI. Purification to apparent homogeneity of fibroblast-stimulating factor-1, an acidic heparin-binding growth factor produced by schistosomal egg granulomas. Liver fibrosis is the most serious complication of infection with Schistosoma mansoni and Schistosoma japonicum and is responsible for severe morbidity and mortality in hundreds of thousands of patients in many Third World nations. The pathogenesis of this condition remains to be elucidated. We proposed that certain cytokines produced by cells that comprise the chronic granulomas that surround the helminth eggs within the liver initiate hepatic fibrogenesis. We now report our successful purification to apparent homogeneity of the egg granuloma-derived fibroblast mitogen. The high affinity of this factor for heparin (elutes from heparin-Sepharose with 1.5 M NaCl) facilitates its purification by a two-step procedure, and identifies the cytokine as a heparin-binding growth factor (HBGF). Furthermore, because it has an isoelectric point approximately equal to 6.2, it has one of the characteristics of a class 1 (acidic) HBGF. We immunized rabbits with the purified factor and observed that the resulting antibodies (IgG) detected the factor but not acidic fibroblast growth factor (the prototypic class 1 HBGF) either by dot-blot ELISA or neutralization of biologic activity. The granuloma product and fibroblast growth factor also differ in target-cell specificity and amino acid composition. On the basis of these distinctions, we have designated the granuloma-derived mitogen fibroblast-stimulating factor-1. With the availability of purified fibroblast-stimulating factor-1 and the future analysis of its amino acid sequence, its structural relationship to other mesenchymal growth factors can be determined. 
Mixed venous oxygen saturation as a guide to tissue oxygenation and prognosis in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The relation of mixed venous oxygen saturation and the cardiac index to tissue oxygenation and prognosis was investigated in 119 patients with acute myocardial infarction. There was a positive correlation between mixed venous oxygen saturation and the cardiac index in 97 survivors and 22 nonsurvivors, but a significantly lower mixed venous oxygen saturation level at the same level of cardiac index was observed in nonsurvivors compared with survivors. Results of multivariate analysis with mixed venous oxygen saturation and the cardiac index indicated that only mixed venous oxygen saturation was significantly related to survival and to hyperlactacidemia. Oxygen delivery to tissues declined significantly in nonsurvivors because of a lower cardiac index and a lower hemoglobin concentration in these patients than in survivors. However, at the same level of oxygen delivery to tissues, nonsurvivors had a significantly higher rate of oxygen consumption leading to a correspondingly greater decrease in mixed venous oxygen saturation, suggesting that a greater increase in oxygen demand was also observed in nonsurvivors than in survivors. Thus mixed venous oxygen saturation after acute myocardial infarction is a better predictor of hyperlactacidemia and survival than the cardiac index, and this may be associated with an increased oxygen demand and an impaired oxygen transport system in seriously ill patients. 
Isolated muscle hypertrophy as a sign of radicular or peripheral nerve injury. Two patients with isolated neurogenic hypertrophy of the trapezius muscle due to accessory nerve injury and a patient with neurogenic hypertrophy of the anterior tibial muscle due to chronic radicular lesion L4 are described. Electromyography of the affected muscles showed dense continuing spontaneous discharges of complex potentials. Muscle biopsy performed in two patients showed abundant hypertrophic muscle fibres, identified in one case by ATP-ase reaction as being of predominantly type I. In the majority of previously reported patients with neurogenic muscle hypertrophy confined to the calf muscle, a passive stretch mechanism was suggested as a cause of the hypertrophy. It is assumed that the excessive spontaneous muscle activity gave rise to the hypertrophy in these patients. This may also be true in previously reported patients with neurogenic hypertrophy and similar spontaneous activity in electromyography. 
Heterotopic ossification and peripheral nerve entrapment: early diagnosis and excision. Heterotopic ossification can occur in neurologic disorders, burns, musculoskeletal trauma, and metabolic disorders. In addition to producing the complications of contracture, skin breakdown, and pain, it can cause peripheral nerve entrapment. Nerve entrapment due to heterotopic ossification may be misdiagnosed, and it is difficult to evaluate and treat without recurrence. Computed tomography is especially useful in localization before surgical release of the entrapped nerve. Resection of heterotopic ossification can be successful using disodium etidronate to decrease the risk of recurrence, and resection can improve range of motion and nerve function. Two case studies of nerve entrapment due to heterotopic ossification are presented with the results of computed tomography localization, successful resection, and long-term follow-up. Clinicians should be aware of this complication and the potential for rapid nerve injury. If heterotopic ossification is causing clinically significant peripheral nerve entrapment, early surgical treatment may be indicated, and may be successful. 
Primary fibromyalgia and the irritable bowel syndrome: different expressions of a common pathogenetic process. Primary fibromyalgia (PFM) and the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are both common conditions which account for 30% or more of referrals to rheumatology and gastroenterology clinics. An association between symptoms in PFM and IBS has been suggested but the frequency with which they coexist has not been assessed. The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of each condition in groups of patients with PFM and IBS compared to normal and disease control populations. We studied four patient groups, 20 patients in each group, with PFM, IBS, inflammatory arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and also 20 normal controls. Using strict diagnostic criteria, each group was assessed by two investigators for symptoms and signs of PFM and IBS. Sigmoidoscopy was performed when indicated. Results indicate that 70% (14/20) of the PFM patients had IBS and 65% (13/20) of the IBS patients had PFM. This compared with the control groups where 12% (7/60) and 10% (6/60) had PFM and IBS respectively. In conclusion, these results indicate that PFM and IBS frequently coexist. A common pathogenetic mechanism for both conditions is therefore suggested. 
Effects of sympathectomy in a model of causalgiform pain produced by partial sciatic nerve injury in rats. In a previous report we presented a novel behavioral model of neuropathic pain disorders, produced in rat by a unilateral ligation of about half of the sciatic nerve. The model is characterized by rapid onset of behaviors suggesting spontaneous pain and disordered responses to non-noxious and noxious stimuli. These include reduced withdrawal thresholds to repetitive touch in the partially deafferented skin ('touched-evoked hyperesthesia'), touch-evoked allodynia, reduced withdrawal thresholds to noxious thermal stimuli and exaggerated responses to noxious heat and mechanical stimuli ('thermal hyperalgesia'). Some of these disorders are seen at mirror image sites on the hind limb opposite the lesion. These disorder start within hours after partial nerve injury, last many months and are very similar to causalgia in humans following partial nerve injury. Since sympathetic efferent activity is known to aggravate causalgia in humans and sympathectomy is known to relieve it, we studied the effect of changing sympathetic outflow in the rat model. Reversible sympathectomy was carried out using guanethidine injected intraperitoneally in 3 experiments, each at a different time in relation to the partial nerve injury. We found that: (1) sympathectomy performed several months postoperatively alleviated the sensory disorders bilaterally; (2) sympathectomy prior to nerve injury partially prevented the appearance of thermal hyperalgesia but did not affect hyperesthesia to repetitive touch; and (3) sympathectomy at the time of nerve injury aggravated the sensory disorders during the first few days. As maintenance and production of the sensory disorders in this animal model depended on sympathetic nervous outflow, we conclude that the rats were suffering from a syndrome analogous to sympathetically maintained causalgia in man. 
Gastric antral vascular ectasia associated with gastric carcinoma. Gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE), or watermelon stomach, is an uncommon cause of chronic gastrointestinal blood loss and iron deficiency anemia. Although GAVE has not previously been reported in association with gastric cancer, it is often associated with atrophic gastritis and pernicious anemia, which are known risk factors for gastric malignancy. We report a 72-yr-old woman with pernicious anemia who was found to have GAVE associated with adenosquamous carcinoma of the gastric cardia and adenocarcinoma in situ of the pylorus. In view of recent reports of the use of endoscopic modalities rather than surgical resection to treat GAVE, our case alerts endoscopists to the possibility of coexisting carcinoma. 
Life-threatening cervico-mediastinal haematoma after carotid sinus massage. Retropharyngeal and cervico-mediastinal haematomas are rare but potentially fatal entities. The potential for airway compression necessitates rapid assessment and treatment. A cervico-mediastinal haematoma following carotid sinus massage which required cervical drainage is presented. This is a life-threatening event demanding a high index of suspicion. A review of the literature and indications for treatment are discussed. 
Ultrasound diagnosis of an obstructive cardiac rhabdomyoma with severe hydrops and hypoplastic lungs. A case report. Cardiac rhabdomyomas of the fetus and neonate are benign cardiac muscle hamartomas with an incidence of 0.027% in pediatric autopsies. This is the third reported case of prenatally diagnosed cardiac rhabdomyoma, the second with severe hydrops and the only one associated with aortic valve hypoplasia and hypoplastic lungs. 
Nausea and vomiting with use of a patient-controlled analgesia system. The incidence of nausea and vomiting following patient controlled analgesia and intramuscular morphine injections on demand was compared in a double-blind randomised study of 32 healthy patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy. There were no significant differences between the two groups in mean 24 hour postoperative morphine consumption, subjective experience of pain, nausea and sedation assessed by visual linear analogue scoring, and the postoperative requirements for antiemetic therapy. 
Potential availability of cadaver organs for transplantation OBJECTIVE--To determine the potential number of cadaver kidney donors by applying defined donor criteria to people dying in hospital. DESIGN--Prospective study of all deaths occurring in 21 hospitals from 1 September 1988 to 31 August 1989. Questionnaires were administered to medical and nursing staff and families of potential donors aged 1-69. SETTING--Acute care hospitals in Gwent, South Glamorgan, Mid Glamorgan, West Glamorgan, Pembrokeshire, and East Dyfed health authorities, serving a population of 2.2 million. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cause of death, age, ventilation at time of death, diagnosis of brain death, and consideration of consent. RESULTS--Adequate data were available for 9840 of 10,095 hospital deaths (97.5% coverage). 188 patients aged 0-69 were identified as potential organ donors (widest definition), and of these 108 died without being ventilated at the time of death. Tests of brain stem death were formally completed in 57 cases, and organ donation was considered by the families of 47 of these potential donors. 26 patients became organ donors. Patients aged 50-69 with stroke were less likely to be ventilated than those aged less than or equal to 49 (21/96 v 24/34). Families of potential donors aged 20-39 were least likely to give permission. CONCLUSIONS--The supply of donor organs (specifically kidneys) could be increased by altering the management of patients aged 50-69 dying of severe cerebrovascular disease in general medical wards, in particular by increasing the proportion ventilated. The ethics of elective ventilation for the purposes of organ donation require discussion. 
Recurrent condylomata acuminata treated with recombinant interferon alfa-2a. A multicenter double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial. Condylomata International Collaborative Study Group. Systemic interferon has been advocated as an effective therapy for recurrent genital warts. A double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter international trial involving 172 patients with recurrent condylomata was conducted using systemic interferon alfa-2a in doses of 3 or 9 MIU three times per week for 4 weeks. The treatment period was followed by a treatment-free follow-up period of 2 months. Complete responders at month 3 were followed up to 9 months or until they had a recurrence, whichever occurred first. The combined rates of complete response (total disappearance of all lesions without appearance of new ones) and major incomplete response (at least a 75% reduction in total lesion area) at 3 months after the commencement of therapy were 34%, 25%, and 30%, respectively, in 166 patients receiving 3 and 9 MIU of interferon alfa-2a and placebo. The recurrence rates at the end of 9 months were 9% in the placebo and 3-MIU groups and 36% in the 9-MIU group. We conclude that systemic interferon alfa-2a administered three times weekly for 4 weeks at doses of 3 and 9 MIU is not effective as monotherapy for genital warts that have recurred after standard ablative therapy. 
An evaluation of pulse oximetry in prehospital care. STUDY OBJECTIVES: We performed this study to evaluate the accuracy of pulse oximetry oxygen saturation (SpO2) against direct measurements of arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) in the field. DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional, paired measurements of SpO2 against SaO2. SETTING: This evaluation was done in the prehospital setting. INTERVENTIONS: A pulse oximeter with digital probe was used to measure SpO2 in 30 patients. Arterial blood gases were drawn in the field while the pulse oximeter was in use, and oxygen saturation (HbO2) was measured by CO-oximetry. MAIN RESULTS: There was no significant difference between SpO2 (94.6 +/- 5.4%) and HbO2 (94.9 +/- 5.1%) (P = .495, beta less than .2). There was a strong correlation between SpO2 and HbO2 (r = .898). The bias between SpO2 and HbO2 was -0.3, with a precision of 2.4. When SpO2 was 88% or more, HbO2 was 90% or more in every case. Mean carboxyhemoglobin was 1.3 +/- 0.9%, and mean methemoglobin was 0.9 +/- 0.3%. There was no significant difference between the pulse oximeter heart rate and the ECG heart rate (P = .223, beta less than .2). CONCLUSION: We conclude that pulse oximetry is sufficiently accurate to be useful in the field when SpO2 is more than 88%. It is potentially useful in patients with clinical signs of acute hypoxemia and in patients receiving interventions that may produce acute hypoxemia. Further work is needed to evaluate the accuracy of pulse oximetry in the settings of elevated carboxyhemoglobin, methemoglobin, and very low saturations. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of spinal trauma. A retrospective series of 118 magnetic resonance examinations of 110 patients who had sustained previous spinal trauma is reported. Examinations performed within 3 weeks of trauma showed extraspinal soft tissue (including ligamentous) injury in 48% and intraspinal lesions in 61% (mostly consisting of extradural haematoma and spinal cord contusion). In examinations performed more than 3 weeks after injury intraspinal abnormalities were shown in 51% and these represented spinal cord compression, atrophy, myelomalacia and syringohydromyelia. Magnetic resonance imaging has the unique capability of displaying non-invasively the late sequelae of spinal trauma permitting simultaneous evaluation of the extra-spinal soft tissues, vertebral column and spinal cord. It is therefore recommended as the technique of choice in the investigation of patients who have sustained previous spinal injury, particularly those with neurological deficit. In the acute phase potentially remediable causes of neurological impairment such as disc herniation or extradural haematoma can be identified. Signal changes in the cord may allow the prognosis for neurological recovery to be established. In the later stages sequelae such as cord atrophy, myelomalacia and syringohydromyelia are accurately identified and surgical therapy may be guided, where appropriate. 
Effect of surgery on the systemic inflammatory response to intermittent claudication The hypothesis that intermittent claudication initiates a systemic inflammatory response was investigated by studying the effect of exercise on markers of neutrophil activation and vascular permeability in 25 claudicants and 10 controls. Urinary albumin excretion, previously demonstrated to reflect vascular permeability, increased significantly after exercise in claudicants and was associated with decreased neutrophil filterability and increased serum lysozyme activity. No similar exercise-induced changes were seen in controls or in claudicants after successful arterial bypass surgery. These results suggest that intermittent claudication is associated with potentially deleterious systemic manifestations that are surgically reversible. 
Treatment of chronic mastoiditis by grafting of mastoid cavities with autologous epithelial layers generated by in vitro culture of buccal epithelium. Autologous cultured epithelial layers were established from biopsies from the mucosa of the cheek, a non-keratinizing region of the oral cavity. These were grafted to the unepithelialized mastoid cavities of nine patients with chronic mastoiditis and severe otorrhoea varying from two to 30 years' duration. All procedures were performed on an out-patient basis, with no anaesthesia except for topical anaesthesia for the mucosal biopsy. In seven of the patients the grafts took well, with complete resolution of the otorrhoea for a minimum follow-up period of eight months. In one patient there was a partial take of the graft with substantial improvement in the rate of discharge. The mastoid cavities of two patients were biopsied five months after grafting, and demonstrated a stratified squamous epithelium, with keratinization of the epithelium clearly evident. 
Mortality and morbidity in patients receiving encainide, flecainide, or placebo. The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. In the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial, designed to test the hypothesis that suppression of ventricular ectopy after a myocardial infarction reduces the incidence of sudden death, patients in whom ventricular ectopy could be suppressed with encainide, flecainide, or moricizine were randomly assigned to receive either active drug or placebo. The use of encainide and flecainide was discontinued because of excess mortality. We examined the mortality and morbidity after randomization to encainide or flecainide or their respective placebo. RESULTS. Of 1498 patients, 857 were assigned to receive encainide or its placebo (432 to active drug and 425 to placebo) and 641 were assigned to receive flecainide or its placebo (323 to active drug and 318 to placebo). After a mean follow-up of 10 months, 89 patients had died: 59 of arrhythmia (43 receiving drug vs. 16 receiving placebo; P = 0.0004), 22 of nonarrhythmic cardiac causes (17 receiving drug vs. 5 receiving placebo; P = 0.01), and 8 of noncardiac causes (3 receiving drug vs. 5 receiving placebo). Almost all cardiac deaths not due to arrhythmia were attributed to acute myocardial infarction with shock (11 patients receiving drug and 3 receiving placebo) or to chronic congestive heart failure (4 receiving drug and 2 receiving placebo). There were no differences between the patients receiving active drug and those receiving placebo in the incidence of nonlethal disqualifying ventricular tachycardia, proarrhythmia, syncope, need for a permanent pacemaker, congestive heart failure, recurrent myocardial infarction, angina, or need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty. CONCLUSIONS. There was an excess of deaths due to arrhythmia and deaths due to shock after acute recurrent myocardial infarction in patients treated with encainide or flecainide. Nonlethal events, however, were equally distributed between the active-drug and placebo groups. The mechanisms underlying the excess mortality during treatment with encainide or flecainide remain unknown. 
Reflex bradycardia during TMJ arthroscopy: case report. A case of bradycardia occurring during TMJ arthroscopy is presented. A similar case of the TVR has not previously been reported. This reflex must be recognized by oral and maxillofacial surgeons who perform arthroscopy. 
Progression and survival studies in early chronic lymphocytic leukemia. To investigate the natural history of stage A chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) we reviewed 84 such patients. Among 74 cases evaluable for disease progression, 22 (29.6%) progressed to more advanced clinical stages (9 to stage B, 13 to stage C); the actuarial estimation of such an event at 4 years was 30% (95% CI: 26.3% to 33.6%). Despite a linear trend toward an increasing risk (r = .92), the hazard function analysis showed a constant pattern of progression, suggesting a lack of correlation of such an event with time (r = .04). Furthermore, disease progression when analyzed as a time-dependent variable had a clear-cut impact on survival (P less than .001). With the aim of identifying a subgroup of patients with low probability of disease progression and death, we applied to our set of patients four different proposals for subclassifying stage A. All methods were similar in terms of sample size, 5-year survival rate, and disease progression risk, suggesting that the choice between different proposals is somewhat arbitrary. Whatever the criteria are for defining "smoldering" CLL, such patients (accounting in the present study for 20.5% of overall series and 46.7% of stage A patients) should not be treated until progression occurs. 
Spinal mediation of thermally induced sweating. The sweat responses of nine patients with physiologically complete lesions of the spinal cord (six cervical and three thoracic) were recorded by two different techniques while the patients were exposed to elevated environmental temperatures. Oral temperatures, heart rate and respiration were monitored throughout the observational periods. Oral temperature invariably rose during exposure to heat and both heart rate and respiration tended to increase. Sweating was detected on all of the test areas by both the iodine-starch-paper technique and the quinizarin technique, but it was of widely varying intensity in different portions of the body. In the patients with cervical lesions sweating was generally profuse on the head and neck and occurred in progressively decreasing intensity down to the level of the umbilicus. It was invariably present, but only in very low intensity, on the lower extremity. Sweating was frequently present as a result of manipulation of the patient during the initial preparations, but this generally declined or stopped before the heat was turned on. With application of heat, sweating was recruited on previously dry areas or increased in intensity on those areas in which it was previously present. After oral temperature had increased moderately, the heat was turned off and the doors of the chamber opened widely so that the heat stimulus was suddenly removed. Despite a continued rise in oral temperature, sweating stopped or decreased dramatically. These results are interpreted to indicate the direct mediation by the isolated spinal cord of reflex sweating responses to a heat stimulus applied to the skin. 
The motor response to sequential apomorphine in parkinsonian fluctuations. Fifteen patients with Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced motor fluctuations, were studied with repeated injections of apomorphine using two protocols to explore possible changes in the duration of motor response. One involved different interdose intervals; in the other, doses were given when the motor effects induced by the previous dose had just worn off. No significant change in the duration of motor response to sequential subcutaneous apomorphine with either protocol was found. The results suggest that rapid changes in receptor sensitivity during repeated intermittent dopaminergic stimulation do not contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinsonian motor fluctuations. 
Afferent loop syndrome: sonographic findings in seven cases. We studied the sonographic findings in seven patients in whom afferent loop obstruction was first detected by sonography. All seven subsequently were proved at surgery to have afferent loop syndrome. The causes of the obstruction included internal hernia (n = 3), cancer recurrence (n = 2), marginal ulcer (n = 1), and development of cancer at the anastomosis site (n = 1). In all cases, the dilated afferent loop was seen on sonography as a tubular structure in the upper abdomen crossing transversely over the midline. The distal end of the afferent loop could be traced toward the anastomosis. The probable cause of the syndrome was predicted on the basis of sonography in two of three patients with cancer at the anastomosis. Our experience suggests that afferent loop syndrome can be diagnosed sonographically on the basis of the detection, location, and shape of the dilated afferent loop. 
Intraoral salivary gland neoplasms: a retrospective study of seventy cases in an African population. Intraoral salivary gland neoplasms diagnosed in the Department of Oral Pathology, Medical University of Southern Africa, Medunsa, were reassessed and revised with regard to histologic diagnosis. New entities and subclassifications that have been described in recent years were taken into account. Seventy cases were diagnosed during an 8-year period, and the sample consisted of black patients only. Benign mixed tumor was the most common entity and accounted for 48% of all tumors. Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma comprised 15.7% of the sample and was the most frequent malignant tumor. The mean age of patients with benign and malignant tumors were 36.5 and 49.8 years, respectively (p less than 0.05), and the palate was the most common site involved. Geographic differences do exist in the pattern and pathology of intraoral salivary gland neoplasms when compared with findings in other studies. 
Detection of ACTH-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors: MR imaging vs CT. Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors tend to occur in the middle third of the lung adjacent to pulmonary vessels. Because they cause signs and symptoms when quite small (by virtue of their ACTH production), they may not be detected by CT. MR imaging was performed in 10 consecutive patients with surgically proved ACTH-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors in order to test the ability of MR to clarify equivocal or indeterminate findings on CT examinations. All bronchial carcinoid tumors had high signal intensity on T2-weighted and short-inversion-time inversion-recovery images, facilitating their distinction from pulmonary vasculature. In eight patients, the CT and MR images were equivalent in the detection of bronchial carcinoid tumors. In two patients, MR showed tumors in the middle third of the lung that were equivocal on CT. MR imaging may distinguish small bronchial carcinoid tumors from adjacent pulmonary vessels in the central third of the lung at a time when the CT study is nondiagnostic or equivocal. 
Prediction of outcome after mitral valve replacement in patients with symptomatic chronic mitral regurgitation. The importance of left atrial size. BACKGROUND. The ability to predict outcome after mitral valve replacement remains limited in patients with symptomatic chronic mitral regurgitation. The aims of this study were to determine the preoperative predictors of postoperative cardiac-related mortality and to assess the additive prognostic value of tests performed in such patients. METHODS AND RESULTS. Accordingly, 176 patients (mean age, 57 +/- 14 years) who underwent mitral valve replacement were followed up for 3.8 +/- 0.5 years. Four categories of variables were analyzed to predict postoperative cardiac-related mortality: clinical, laboratory, two-dimensional echocardiographic (2DE), and cardiac catheterization. There were 39 cardiac-related deaths (29 due to congestive heart failure and 10 sudden). When the four categories were analyzed separately, two clinical, one laboratory, two 2DE, and one catheterization variable best predicted postoperative death. When these six variables were examined simultaneously, only three (one clinical and two 2DE) remained significant predictors of cardiac-related mortality: presence of pulmonary rales, left atrial size, and the ratio of left ventricular wall thickness to left ventricular cavity dimension in end systole. A model based on these three variables may predict cardiac-related death with considerable accuracy. Laboratory data did not add to clinical information for predicting death. 2DE variables provided significant additional information in this regard (p less than 0.001). Further addition of catheterization variables was not useful. Prognostic value did not change significantly when 50 patients with prior mitral valve surgery or 49 patients undergoing concomitant aortic valve replacement or coronary artery bypass surgery were excluded from analysis. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that 1) measures of both left ventricular systolic function and left atrial size are equally important in predicting postoperative cardiac-related mortality in patients with symptomatic chronic mitral regurgitation undergoing mitral valve replacement; 2) left atrial size may be important because it reflects the "history" (severity and duration) of mitral regurgitation; 3) 2DE assessment of left atrial size and left ventricular function provides prognostic information that is significantly greater than that obtained from clinical and laboratory parameters alone; the addition of catheterization variables does not increase the prognostic value of the clinical and 2DE data. 
Clobazam in treatment of refractory epilepsy: the Canadian experience. A retrospective study. Canadian Clobazam Cooperative Group. During the past 7 years in Canada, more than 1,300 refractory epileptic patients have been treated with clobazam (CLB) by 104 adult and pediatric neurologists. Using a standard case report, 32 neurologists, who had each treated greater than or equal to 10 patients, provided retrospective data for 877 patients. The population had the following characteristics; the percentages of children and adults were 51 and 49%, respectively; 38% of the patients were mentally retarded; the percentages for single and multiple seizure type diseases were 46 and 54%, respectively; and adults had more complex partial seizures, whereas children had more atypical absence and myoclonic types. Before clobazam, patients received an average of 2 other antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) (range 0-5 AEDs). Average dose of CLB in children was 0.87 mg/kg per day (range 0.05-3.8 mg/kg per day) and in adults 30 mg/day (range 2.5-150 mg/day). Duration of CLB therapy ranged from a few days to greater than 4 years, with 40% being treated greater than 1 year. Using Kaplan-Meier curves, we found that 4 years after starting, 40-50% of patients continued CLB. More than 40% of patients with single seizure type had at least a 50% reduction in seizure frequency (improved). At least 60% of patients with multiple seizure type had improvement in one or more seizure types, and nearly 40% of the patients had all their seizure types improved. The seizure frequency for each seizure type, except tonic, was reduced greater than 50% in 40-50% of patients and by 100% in 10-30% of patients. Twenty percent stopped CLB for poor efficacy, 4% stopped for safety-related reasons including drug interactions, and 8% stopped for both reasons. Possible side effects (predominantly somnolence) were reported by 32%; however, in only 11% were the side effects sufficiently severe to cause discontinuation of medication. "Tolerance," leading to discontinuation of CLB, was reported for 9%. Patients treated with CLB for at least 1 year were generally maintained with CLB greater than 1 year. Thus, CLB is useful in refractory epilepsy of all types, suggesting that a monotherapy trial in less severe epilepsy is now desirable. 
Correlation of quantitative angiographic parameters with changes in left ventricular diastolic function after angioplasty of the left anterior descending coronary artery. This study evaluates the changes in left ventricular (LV) diastolic filling after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and the relation of such changes to quantitative angiographic measurements of the severity of coronary narrowings. Pulsed Doppler echocardiographic measurements were performed in 40 patients with single left anterior descending artery narrowing before, and 10 and 30 days after angioplasty. Minimal luminal diameter and percent diameter stenosis of coronary lesions were measured by computer-assisted quantitation. The ratio of early to late diastolic flow velocities (E/A ratio), time velocity integral of early diastolic filling period (Ei) and the ratio of early and late diastolic filling periods (Ei/Ai ratio) increased gradually after angioplasty. Minimal luminal diameter correlated significantly with the percent changes in E/A ratio (r = 0.59 at 10 days, r = 0.57 at 30 days), Ei (r = 0.53 at 10 days, r = 0.55 at 30 days) and Ei/Ai ratio (r = 0.41 at 10 days, r = 0.49 at 30 days). Percent diameter stenosis showed overall weaker correlations than minimal diameter with the percent changes in E/A ratio (r = 0.39 at 10 days, r = 0.32 at 30 days) and Ei (r = 0.38 at 10 days, r = 0.31 at 30 days). Thus, LV diastolic filling improves serially after coronary angioplasty in patients with 1-vessel disease. The magnitude of improvement in diastolic filling correlates better with minimal luminal diameter than percent diameter stenosis. Therefore, minimal luminal diameter is a better predictor of changes in Doppler transmitral flow parameters after angioplasty than percent diameter stenosis. 
Survival after resection of carcinoma of the splenic flexure. Nine hundred ten patients undergoing colectomy for colon cancer were studied retrospectively. Seventy-four cancers (8 percent) were located at the splenic flexure. The stage at presentation was no different between splenic flexure cancers and colon carcinomas at other sites. Although splenic flexure cancers had twice the incidence of obstruction as did other colon cancers and obstruction in the overall series adversely affected survival, there was no difference in survival between splenic flexure cancer patients and patients with other colon cancers. 
Reduction in injection pain using buffered lidocaine as a local anesthetic before cardiac catheterization. Previous reports have suggested that pain associated with the injection of lidocaine is related to the acidic pH of the solution. To determine if the addition of a buffering solution to adjust the pH of lidocaine into the physiologic range would reduce pain during injection, we performed a blinded randomized study in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Twenty patients were asked to quantify the severity of pain after receiving standard lidocaine in one femoral area and buffered lidocaine in the opposite femoral area. The mean pain score for buffered lidocaine was significantly lower than the mean score for standard lidocaine (2.7 +/- 1.9 vs. 3.8 +/- 2.2, P = 0.03). The pH adjustment of standard lidocaine can be accomplished easily in the catheterization laboratory before injection and results in a reduction of the pain occurring during the infiltration of tissues. 
Electrophysiologic analysis of early Parkinson's disease. We have been interested in the application of quantitative measures of motor performance as a possible means of early detection of Parkinson's disease. To assess motor function, we have measured movement time (the physiologic correlate of bradykinesia) and reaction time (simple and directional choice) with an upper limb motor task, and tremor with accelerometry and electromyographic recordings. In this report we describe preliminary data from a Parkinson's disease patient group with symptoms of fewer than 2 years' average duration (compared with an age- and gender-matched normal control group) which indicate that precise, quantitative tests of motor function can detect the slight deviations from normal that are present in early Parkinson's disease. It appears that tests of bradykinesia are most sensitive, and detection of rest tremor is most specific. These tests may be applicable in screening individuals who are suspected of having or are "at risk for" Parkinson's disease and other related disorders. 
Malignancy supervening on an intramedullary nail. A primary, malignant, fibrous histiocytoma of bone occurring in association with a Hansen Street intramedullary nail occurred in a 39-year-old man. The physical and chemical characteristics of materials, in relation to the generation of secondary neoplasia are reviewed, but the problem of coincidence is difficult to exclude. 
Prolongation of repolarization time by electric field stimulation with monophasic and biphasic shocks in open-chest dogs. Recent studies suggest that 1) electrically induced fibrillation and defibrillation involve prolongation of refractoriness by the shock in addition to stimulation and 2) biphasic waveforms are more efficient for defibrillation than are comparable monophasic waveforms. The purpose of this study was to compare prolongation of action potential duration at 50% repolarization by monophasic and biphasic shocks during paced rhythm. A floating glass microelectrode was used to record intracellularly from the anterior right ventricular epicardium in seven open-chest dogs. After 10 S1 beats paced at an interval of 350 msec, 5-msec and 2.5-msec monophasic shocks and biphasic shocks, with each phase of 2.5 msec, were given via mesh electrodes on either side of the microelectrode. The shock strength was adjusted so that the shock field, measured from eight extracellular electrodes encircling the microelectrode, was about 5 V/cm. Monophasic and biphasic S2 shocks were given starting with an S1-S2 interval of 120 msec, which was increased in 5-msec steps until an action potential was produced by the S2 shock. Both monophasic and biphasic 5 V/cm shock fields caused significant prolongation of action potential duration. The prolongation of action potential duration increased as the S1-S2 interval increased. This prolongation occurred at shorter S1-S2 intervals for 5-msec monophasic shocks than for biphasic shocks. 
Emergency department treatment of alcohol withdrawal seizures with phenytoin. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Prevention of recurrent alcohol withdrawal seizures is a common emergency department problem. A prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of adequate size was designed to assess the efficacy of phenytoin in preventing recurrence of alcohol withdrawal seizures. METHODS: Fifty-five patients who had seized from alcohol withdrawal were randomly assigned to treatment with IV phenytoin or placebo. Patients with known seizure disorders and those receiving any anticonvulsant were excluded. The study was terminated after seizure recurrence or passage of a six-hour, high-risk seizure interval. RESULTS: Six of 28 phenytoin-treated patients (21%) had recurrent seizures compared with five of 27 placebo-treated patients (19%). The 95% confidence interval for the difference in response probabilities was +16% to -20%. There was no statistically significant difference between the response rates for the two treatments (P greater than .05). CONCLUSION: Phenytoin does not show significant benefit over placebo in preventing recurrence of alcohol withdrawal seizures. 
Psychological distress and diagnostic subgroups of temporomandibular disorder patients. This study examined the nature and extent of psychological differences among diagnostic subgroups of temporomandibular disorder (TMD) patients. Three subgroups were identified and labeled as: (1) primary myalgia, (2) primary temporomandibular joint (TMJ) problems, or (3) combination myalgia and TMJ problems. Patients' (n = 112) levels of pain and distress were measured using a VAS pain scale, the McGill Pain Questionnaire, the Beck Depression Inventory, the State-Trait Anxiety Scale and the MMPI. Patients with primary myalgia had the highest scores on the pain and distress measures while patients in the combination group scored between the myalgia and TMJ problem subgroups. When differences in pain levels were controlled, the differences among groups on measures of anxiety and depression were attenuated while the differences on measures of somatic overconcern remained significant. Discriminant function analysis using psychological variables to predict diagnostic grouping produced correct identification of 74% of the structural patients and 46% of the myalgia patients. Implications for different etiological factors among the 3 groups are discussed. 
Effects of drive train stimulus intensity on ventricular refractoriness in humans. BACKGROUND. The strength-interval relation between the intensity of premature stimulus and the ventricular effective refractory period (VERP) has been well characterized. The effects of variation in the intensity of the basic drive train stimuli (S1) on VERP are not as well defined. This relation was studied in 44 patients undergoing clinically indicated electrophysiological study. METHODS AND RESULTS. The outputs of two stimulus isolation units were connected in parallel, allowing the intensity of S1 to be varied independently of intensity of the extrastimulus (S2). To prevent confounding effects from cycle length change, continuous overdrive pacing was performed for 3 minutes before each measurement of VERP. The effect of S1 intensity on VERP was assessed in 24 patients with S2 intensity kept constant at twice threshold. VERP shortened from 232 +/- 19 msec at an S1 intensity of 1.5 times threshold to 219 +/- 20 msec at 5 mA and 211 +/- 19 msec at 10 mA (p less than 0.0001 for baseline versus 5 mA and for 5 mA versus 10 mA). Autonomic blockade with atropine and propranolol blunted but did not completely eliminate this effect. To assess whether the effect of S1 intensity on VERP was independent of S2 intensity, S2 strength-interval curves were generated in 10 patients at low (1.5 times threshold) and high (10 mA) S1 intensities. All portions of the strength-interval curve were shifted to the left by an increase in S1 intensity. The time course of change in VERP after an abrupt increase in S1 intensity was assessed in an additional 10 patients. VERP changed slowly, requiring 18 +/- 28 seconds to shorten by 2 msec and 64 +/- 46 seconds to decrease by 10 msec after a change in S1 intensity from 1.5 times threshold to 10 mA. In a final group of 10 patients, VERP was measured using an eight-beat drive train and a 4-second intertrain interval. With this more conventional protocol, VERP shortened by 14 +/- 8 msec with an increase in S1 intensity from 1.5 times threshold to 10 mA. CONCLUSIONS. Increasing S1 intensity results in clinically significant, progressive shortening of VERP in man. This effect is independent of S2 intensity. The prolonged time course of the change in VERP after an increase in S1 intensity and the attenuation of this effect by autonomic blockade are consistent with stimulation of sympathetic nerve terminals and catecholamine release as a result of intense stimulation. 
Detection of human papillomavirus DNA by in situ DNA hybridization and polymerase chain reaction in premalignant and malignant oral lesions. The sensitivity of detection of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in premalignant and malignant oral lesions by in situ hybridization (ISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were compared. With both methods HPV DNA was found in 4 of 24 cases of epithelial dysplasia, 4 of 14 cases of verrucous hyperplasia, and 1 of 10 cases of squamous cell carcinoma. The 10 cases of smokeless tobacco keratoses and 3 cases of verrucous carcinoma that we examined were all negative for HPV DNA. The PCR for the E6 open reading frame of HPV-16 correctly identified all cases that were positive by ISH. Only a single case that was positive by PCR was negative by ISH for HPV DNA. However, the PCR demonstrated the presence of HPV-16 infection in one case, which had hybridized most intensely with the probe for types 31/33/35 in the ISH. This discrepancy probably is due to the high degree of cross-hybridization in the ISH assay. PCR appears to be an effective technique for identifying HPV-16 DNA sequences in biopsy material from premalignant and malignant oral lesions. 
Predictive testing for Wilson's disease using tightly linked and flanking DNA markers. We studied DNA polymorphisms for five new chromosome 13 markers in 52 Wilson's disease (WD) families from Europe, North America, and the Middle East. There was significant evidence for linkage between the Wilson's disease locus (WND) and all the marker loci. Multilocus linkage analysis, using a genetic linkage map established from reference pedigrees, suggested that WND is most likely between D13S31 and D13S59, at distances of 0.4 and 1.2 centimorgans, respectively. Our results suggest that the chromosomal location of the Wilson's disease gene is the same in all families from the populations studied. This evidence and the availability of many close, flanking, and polymorphic DNA markers make possible accurate and informative testing of potential carriers and WD homozygotes in families with at least one previously affected child. An advantage of a genetic linkage test over other laboratory methods for prediction of genotype in WD is that a reliable diagnosis can be made at a much earlier stage in life, including prenatally. In addition, DNA testing can be used in place of an invasive liver biopsy procedure to confirm a diagnosis in patients with borderline serum ceruloplasmin levels. Presymptomatic identification will also allow therapeutic intervention to prevent symptoms before irreparable liver or neurologic damage occurs. We describe the implementation of prenatal and preclinical diagnosis for two families with WD. 
Endocrine manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Endocrine manifestations of HIV infection include both pathological changes and disturbances in function. Mechanisms include direct infection of glands by HIV or opportunistic organisms, infiltration by neoplasms, side effects of drugs, and production of humoral factors that may alter metabolism. The adrenal gland is most often affected, but virtually every endocrine system may be involved. Dysfunction is often subtle, with symptoms overlapping those of the HIV infection itself. Endocrine manifestations may be found at any time in the course of the disease, from the asymptomatic HIV-positive stage through full-blown AIDS. Optimal management of these patients may include a careful search for, and appropriate treatment of, associated endocrine abnormalities. 
Disease progression and viral genome variants in experimental feline leukemia virus-induced immunodeficiency syndrome [published erratum appears in J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 1991;4(9):925] A fatal immunodeficiency syndrome with clinical and pathologic features similar to human AIDS is inducible in cats by experimental inoculation with a specific strain of feline leukemia virus (FeLV) called FeLV-FAIDS. The course of the feline disease is characterized by an age-dependent prodromal period during which a non-disease-specific, common form of proviral DNA is detected in bone marrow. Preceding clinical onset of immunodeficiency is production of high levels of specific, pathogenic variant genomes, primarily as unintegrated viral DNA, in bone marrow. Acute immunodeficiency syndrome (survival period approximately 3 months) is associated with a short prodromal period and appearance of a characteristic variant genome (variant A) that persists at high copy number as integrated and full-length unintegrated viral DNA in bone marrow. Chronic immunodeficiency syndrome (survival greater than 1 year) is marked by a longer prodromal period, a more gradual onset of severe clinical immunosuppression, and a predominance of other variant genomes that often contain substantial internal deletions. In both forms of the disease, tissue-specific replication of certain variant viruses is noted in the bone marrow, intestine, and lymph nodes. Evidence from in vitro and in vivo virus transmission studies indicates that the appearance of FeLV-FAIDS variant viruses reflects differential replication of viral genomes pre-existing in the inoculum rather than rapid de novo evolution of new variants within each animal. These results demonstrate that retrovirus-induced immunodeficiency disease in cats can be associated with and prefigured by the amplified replication of specific viral variants in target tissues. 
Treatment of gram-negative peritonitis with aztreonam in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. In a multicenter open study, intraperitoneal aztreonam was used together with vancomycin, cloxacillin, or flucloxacillin for initial empiric treatment of peritonitis associated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Monotherapy with aztreonam was continued in 34 episodes of gram-negative peritonitis in 28 patients. The microorganisms isolated included Escherichia coli, Acinetobacter species, Pseudomonas species, and Klebsiella species. In three episodes, two organisms were cultured. Microbiologic assessment revealed cure in 27 episodes, cure with relapse in two, cure with superinfection in one, and treatment failure in four (with resistance to aztreonam in three). As assessed by clinical criteria, 27 episodes were cured, five failed to respond, and two responded partially. No adverse reactions to aztreonam were observed. Comparison of these 34 episodes with 35 episodes in historical controls (treated mainly with aminoglycosides and/or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) showed significantly higher rates of cure (84% vs. 51%) and of survival (97% vs. 86%) as well as lower rates of catheter removal (65% vs. 87%) with aztreonam. Thus aztreonam is a safe and efficient agent for the treatment of peritonitis caused by gram-negative organisms in patients undergoing CAPD. 
Quantitative magnetic resonance imaging in cervical carcinoma: a report on 30 cases. T1 and T2 relaxation times were calculated, before radiation therapy, in 30 patients with cervical carcinoma. Eight healthy young women were submitted to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine T1 and T2 times of the normal cervix. Magnetic resonance imaging was repeated, in 22 patients, during radiation therapy and at follow-up. During treatment and follow-up, patients with complete tumour response showed a significant T1 reduction compared with the pre-treatment values. With persistence of palpable or visible tumour, T1 times showed a small decrease during therapy, and a marked increase at subsequent examinations. The results suggest that the modifications of T1 times, during radiation therapy and follow-up, could be considered as a useful discriminant between patients with differing tumour response. 
Prostaglandin F2 alpha and indomethacin in hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia. Effects on pulmonary hemodynamics and gas exchange. We treated a 68-year-old man with cirrhosis of the liver associated with moderate hypoxemia. Contrast-enhanced echocardiography revealed late opacification of the left ventricle, and pulmonary perfusion imaging with 99mTc macroaggregated albumin showed evidence of a significant uptake in both lungs and in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Right cardiac catheterization revealed pulmonary hypotension, low pulmonary vascular resistance, and high cardiac output. We administered prostaglandin F2 alpha intravenously (0.2 microgram/kg/min for 30 minutes) and indomethacin orally (75 mg/day for three days). There was some degree of resolution of the hypoxemia and increases in both pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance. These findings suggest that the pathophysiology of hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia is a reversible intrapulmonary vascular dilatation. These conditions can to some extent be modulated by vasoactive substances such as prostaglandins or other eicosanoids. 
Effect of dietary nucleotides on intestinal repair in rats with experimental chronic diarrhea. Nucleic acid synthesis in tissues of rapid growth is preferentially done using dietary purines and pyrimidines via the salvage pathway. In the case of a low protein intake, dietary nucleotides may be semiessential for cell replication of gut, lymphocytes, and bone marrow, and especially in those intestinal diseases in which the mucosa is altered, dietary nucleotides may have a role in intestinal development. The effect of dietary nucleotides on intestinal weight and length, gut mucosal weight, intestinal protein and DNA contents, and lactase, maltase, and intestinal mucosal activities was assessed in a controlled way. Weanling (21-day-old) rats were separated into two groups of 36, each receiving blindly a basal diet containing glucose polymers (C) or a basal diet with lactose as the main carbohydrate (L) for 15 days. Those fed with L developed a syndrome of chronic diarrhea and malnutrition. Ten rats of each group were sacrificed at that time. The rest of the animals of each group were separated into two subgroups. The first was fed with the C diet and the second with the C diet supplemented with 50 mg/100 g of each of the following nucleotides: AMP, GMP, CMP, UMP, and IMP (CN). Thus the subgroups CC, CN, LC, and LN were formed. Rats were sacrificed after 4 weeks and gut separated into three segments corresponding to duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. Analysis of variance was used to compare the effect of diet or segments. DNA and lactase, maltase, and sucrase activities increased in the LN group with respect to LC especially in jejunum and ileum but there were not any differences between CC and CN. 
Hereditary coproporphyria: an imitator of multiple sclerosis. Hereditary coproporphyria can cause both peripheral neuropathy and central nervous system abnormalities. There are several similarities between multiple sclerosis and hereditary coproporphyria that are probably due to the central nervous system dysfunction present in both. This report describes a 62-year-old man with a five-year history of progressive paraparesis initially diagnosed as multiple sclerosis. Supporting evidence for the diagnosis of a demyelinating disease included three oligoclonal bands in the patient's cerebral spinal fluid, a prolonged visual evoked response bilaterally, abnormal sensory evoked potentials, and an area of increased signal in the posterior cervical cord suggestive of demyelination that was demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Features atypical for multiple sclerosis were hypoactive deep-tendon reflexes, electromyographic evidence of peripheral neuropathy, and severe constipation. Elevated urine porphyrins and decreased levels of coproporphyrinogen oxidase confirmed the correct diagnosis of hereditary coproporphyria. The patient improved after being placed on a high-carbohydrate diet. Although central demyelination is known to occur in patients with porphyria, delayed evoked potentials and MRI abnormalities have not been previously reported. 
Early postoperative basal serum GH level and the GH response to TRH in relation to the long-term outcome of surgical treatment for acromegaly: a report on 39 patients. During a 10-year period 39 patients with acromegaly, aged 23-73 years, underwent selective adenomectomy via a trans-sphenoidal or transfrontal (one case) approach. Six to 12 months after the operation, the serum level of growth hormone (GH) was reduced to less than 5 micrograms l-1 in 28 patients (74%) in at least two of three random samples and/or suppressed to less than 3 micrograms l-1 during an oral glucose load, thus fulfilling the commonly used criteria for a successful operation. In 10 patients these criteria for adequate GH reduction were not fulfilled, but their median S-GH level was reduced from 38 to 11 micrograms l-1 (P less than 0.01) after the operation. Surgery was successful in 11 of 13 (85%) patients with a microadenoma (less than 10 mm in diameter), in 10 of 14 (71%) patients with an adenoma of diameter greater than 10 mm but still enclosed in the sella, and in seven of 11 (64%) patients with locally invasive tumours. Impaired pituitary function was observed in 23% of the patients after surgery, independent of tumour size. In one patient the postoperative period was complicated by a lethal intracranial infection. During follow-up for 1-10 years, four patients relapsed, after 1, 1.5, 6 and 9 years, respectively. Patients for whom surgery appeared to have been ineffective at the evaluation 6-12 months postoperatively, or who later relapsed were identified by early (within 7 d) postoperative serum GH with a sensitivity of 90%. The accuracy for identification of a satisfactory outcome of surgery was 85%, and the predictive value was 90%. The corresponding values for the GH response to TRH measured 6-12 months postoperatively were 47, 40 and 54%, respectively. It is concluded that the basal level of serum GH measured 1-7 d postoperatively has higher sensitivity and specificity than the GH response to TRH 6-12 months postoperatively for evaluation of the effect of surgery on GH overproduction, and that it has a higher predictive power with regard to the long-term outcome of surgery for acromegaly. 
Psychiatric aspects of chest pain in the emergency department. We estimate that a third of the patients who present to the ED with chest pain have a current psychiatric disorder and that psychiatric disorders among chest pain patients are associated with a high rate of ED utilization for chest pain evaluations. Physicians in the ED recognize only a small fraction of the psychiatric disorders, so appropriate treatment or referral may be infrequent. The proportion of chest pain patients with CAD who also have a psychiatric disorder may be in the range of 20% to 30%, justifying careful assessment of psychiatric disorders in CAD patients. We conclude that the psychiatric aspects of chest pain are sufficiently prevalent, clinically significant, and a contributor to unnecessarily high utilization of medical services. We call for clinical research to address these questions by outlining three areas of study that will advance our knowledge and care of the patient with chest pain. 
Alpha 2 macroglobulin state in acute pancreatitis. Raised values of alpha 2 macroglobulin-protease complexes in severe and mild attacks. Plasma values of C reactive protein, alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor, alpha 2 macroglobulin, and complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin have been determined in serial samples from 27 patients with acute pancreatitis. Complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin was measured by a novel enzyme linked immunosorbent assay with a monoclonal antibody specific for the complexed form. Patients with severe illness had lower concentrations of total alpha 2 macroglobulin and higher concentrations of complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin than those with mild illness, and in the majority of severe attacks the abnormal amounts of complexed alpha 2 macroglobulin were present throughout the eight days of the study. The proportion of total alpha 2 macroglobulin in the uncomplexed form, however, was generally greater than 90%, and in 26% of the mild cases completely normal concentrations of uncomplexed alpha 2 macroglobulin (greater than 99% of total) were found throughout the eight days of the study. This suggests that exhaustion of alpha 2 macroglobulin in plasma is unlikely to be a major factor in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis. 
Right ventricular hypertrophy detected by echocardiography in patients with newly diagnosed obstructive sleep apnea. We used polysomnography, echocardiography and ventilatory measurements to study 50 patients suspected of having OSA to determine a link to RVH. Twenty-eight patients (56 percent) had OSA and 20 (71 percent) of those had isolated RVH. We evaluated patients with RVH and divided them into two groups, those with apnea and those without apnea. The patients with sleep apnea were younger, weighed more, had greater BSA and had lower average oxygen saturations during the sleep study period. We divided the group with apnea into those with RVH and those without it. Those patients with RVH had a higher AI, longer average apnea time, a greater duration of longest apnea and a lower average oxygen saturation for the period of the sleep study. In addition, those with RVH had a lower average oxygen saturation during each apneic episode with a p value equaling 0.09. 
Carcinoid tumor of the common bile duct: evidence for its origin in metaplastic endocrine cells. Carcinoid tumors of the extrahepatic bile ducts are extremely rare neoplasms. The authors report the case of a 36-yr-old male patient with a carcinoid tumor that arose in the common hepatic bile duct. The non-neoplastic mucosa showed areas of gastric and intestinal metaplasia that included scattered argyrophil endocrine cells. Since the normal mucosa of the bile ducts lacks the latter type of cells, this case provides evidence for the first time that carcinoid tumors of this anatomic site probably originate from metaplastic endocrine cells. 
Emergency laryngectomy. From 1974 to 1990, 31 patients underwent emergency laryngectomy for airway obstruction due to laryngeal carcinoma, in an effort to avoid the complication of stomal recurrence. This group of patients had a greater proportion of multiregional tumours (35 per cent vs 13 per cent) than a comparison group of elective laryngectomies. In other respects the two groups were similar. Early post-operative mortality (6.5 per cent vs 3 per cent), stomal recurrence rates (4.2 per cent vs 4.8 per cent) and survival (53 per cent vs 55 per cent) were not significantly different between the emergency laryngectomy group and the comparison group undergoing elective laryngectomy. 
An autopsy case of I-cell disease. Ultrastructural and biochemical analyses. An autopsy case of I-cell disease in a 4-year-old Japanese girl is presented. In this report, the authors analyze the relationship between morphologic (including electron microscopic) and biochemical findings. Lymph node, spleen, and kidney, which were stained with Hale's colloidal iron method, contained large amounts of hexosamine. These substances had accumulated in lymphocytes of B-cell lineage. 
Late potentials are unaltered by ventricular filling pressure reduction in heart failure. Exacerbation of heart failure may increase susceptibility to arrhythmias. Therefore tests to assess the risk of arrhythmia, performed after hemodynamic improvement, may be of limited value. To determine whether hemodynamic improvement alters ventricular late potentials detected by signal-averaged ECG, we studied 27 consecutive patients with dilated heart failure (left ventricular ejection fraction 0.20 +/- 0.06, 15 with coronary artery disease) before and 3 +/- 2 days after tailored vasodilator and diuretic therapy reduced ventricular filling pressures. QRS duration, terminal QRS amplitude (root mean square [RMS]), and low-amplitude (less than 40 microV) signal (LAS) duration were determined by an automated algorithm from the vector magnitude of the QRS high-pass filtered at 25 Hz and at 40 Hz. Despite marked decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge (27 +/- 7 to 16 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) and right atrial (13 +/- 7 to 7 +/- 4 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) pressures and a 20% increase in cardiac output, there was not a significant change in QRS duration, RMS, or LAS. Before and after therapy late potentials, defined as abnormal QRS duration RMS, or LAS, were present in 14 (52%) patients with filtering at 25 Hz and in 22 (81%) patients with filtering at 40 Hz. The signal-averaged ECG after hemodynamic improvement predicted the results during exacerbation of heart failure in all patients. Thus in patients with advanced heart failure the signal-averaged ECG obtained after hemodynamic improvement reflects the findings during exacerbation of heart failure. 
The pediatrician's involvement in prevention and treatment of oral disease in medically compromised children. Significant oral health problems are associated with medical, physical, or mental disorders that occur in children. The pediatrician has the opportunity through early intervention to set the tone for a health care practice that will improve the quality of life for many disadvantaged children. When the pediatrician and pediatric dentist work hand in hand, the children can often expect a happy, healthy future. 
The physiologic basis of diuretic synergism: its role in treating diuretic resistance. Diuretic drugs usually improve edema when used judiciously. Some patients, however, become resistant to their effects. Diuretic resistance may result from dietary indiscretion, poor compliance, impaired bioavailability, imparied diuretic secretion into the lumen of the renal tubule, or because other drugs interfere with diuretic activity. When easily treatable causes of diuretic resistance have been excluded, resistance often reflects the intensity of the stimuli to sodium retention. Recent experimental work has indicated ways in which the kidney adapts to chronic diuretic treatment and has indicated how these adaptations may limit diuretic effectiveness. First, nephron segments downstream from the site of diuretic action increase sodium-chloride (NaCl) reabsorption because the delivered NaCl load increases. Second, diuretic-induced contraction of the extracellular fluid volume stimulates kidney tubules to retain NaCl until the next dose of diuretic is administered. Third, kidney tubules themselves may become hypertrophic because they are chronically stimulated by diuretic-induced increases in NaCl delivery. These adaptations all increase the rate of NaCl reabsorption and blunt the effectiveness of diuretic therapy. When diuretic resistance is present, using a second diuretic drug that acts in a different nephron segment is often effective. Recent experimental results suggest that a second class of drug may act synergistically with the first by blocking the adaptive processes that limit diuretic effectiveness. On the basis of an understanding of the mechanisms of diuretic adaptation and resistance, treatment regimens can be designed to block specific adaptive mechanisms and to improve diuretic therapy. 
Substance abuse: the designer drugs. Designer drugs, chemically altered compounds derived from federally controlled substances, have become a major cause of addiction and overdose deaths. These drugs include mescaline analogs, synthetic opioids, arylhexylamines, methaqualone derivatives and crack, a new form of cocaine. Sudden changes in mood, weight loss, depression, disturbed sleep patterns, deteriorating school or work performance, marital problems, and loss of interest in friends and social activities may be signs of drug addiction. Life-threatening complications of acute intoxication, such as hyperthermia, seizures, combative and psychotic behavior, and cardiorespiratory collapse, require prompt diagnosis and supportive intervention. 
Differential expression of CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor) on lamina propria T cells and macrophages in the intestinal lesions in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis Many interleukin-2 receptor (CD25) bearing cells can be identified by alkaline phosphatase immunohistochemistry in the diseased intestinal lamina propria of children with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, but rarely in normal intestine. In both diseases, the CD25+ cells are present as aggregates in the lamina propria below the epithelium, and constitute a large proportion of the lamina propria mononuclear cells. In Crohn's disease, but not ulcerative colitis, CD25+ cells are abundant in the submucosa. The CD25+ cells in Crohn's disease are 58-88% CD3+, CD4+, CD8-, indicating that they are T cells, whereas in ulcerative colitis the CD25+ cells are greater than 80% CD3-, CD4+, HLA-DR+, indicating that they are macrophages. Thus, differential expression of CD25 on T cells and macrophages serves to distinguish the immunologic lesions in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. 
Myonecrosis and myofibrosis as complications of sickle cell anemia. Painful crises in sickle cell anemia are associated with infarction and subsequent fibrosis of many different organs. Myonecrosis secondary to muscle infarction during a crisis and subsequent fibrosis are often not recognized as complications of sickle cell anemia. We describe four patients, all of whom had recurrent episodes of symmetric proximal muscle pain and swelling as prominent features of their crises. Muscle biopsies showed acute myonecrosis with a minimal inflammatory reaction as well as myofibrosis with abundant collagen deposition. Chronic sequelae consisted of muscle induration, atrophy, and contractures. 
Suppression of eicosanoid biosynthesis during coronary angioplasty by fish oil and aspirin. BACKGROUND. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is an acute, localized stimulus to platelet and vascular function. Periprocedural cardiovascular complications are reduced by moderate-dose aspirin (ASA), presumably due to inhibition of thromboxane (TX) A2. METHODS AND RESULTS. Excretion of TXA2 and prostacyclin (PGI2) metabolites in urine increased during PTCA. Pretreatment for 3 days with either moderate- (325 mg/day) or low-dose (80 mg/day) ASA inhibited the increase in both eicosanoids. Pretreatment for 3 weeks with fish oil (10 g/day) only partially suppressed TXA2. Formation of trienoic eicosanoids and accumulation of omega-3 fatty acids in platelet membranes confirmed fish oil ingestion. Although basal PGI2 was not inhibited, the PTCA-related increment was suppressed. CONCLUSIONS. PTCA results in an acute, transient alteration of eicosanoid biosynthesis consistent with accelerated platelet-vascular interactions. Pretreatment for 3 days with moderate or low doses of ASA suppresses TXA to a similar extent during PTCA, and their effects on acute cardiovascular complications of this procedure are likely to be comparable. It is unlikely that even prolonged pretreatment with fish oil can substitute for the platelet inhibitory action of ASA during PTCA. Suppression of PGI2 may contribute to the residual acute periprocedural complication rate in patients taking ASA. 
Etidronate for hypercalcemia of malignancy and osteoporosis. The biphosphonates are becoming well established as effective agents for the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. Etidronate disodium is the only biphosphonate approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accepted indications for etidronate therapy are symptomatic Paget's disease, heterotopic ossification and hypercalcemia of malignancy. An unapproved, but apparently successful use is treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Both oral and intravenous preparations are available. Newer biphosphonates, which may be more efficacious and less toxic than etidronate, are being studied. 
Comparative angiographic quantitative analysis of the immediate efficacy of coronary atherectomy with balloon angioplasty, stenting, and rotational ablation. Interventional cardiology has branched in two directions: devices that primarily dilate coronary stenoses and those that debulk coronary tissue. Presently the optimum coronary intervention has not been found. While patients are awaiting randomized trials, a comparison based on matched quantitative coronary analysis may be useful to evaluate results of new interventional techniques. Therefore we compared 51 patients undergoing atherectomy with individually matched patients who were undergoing balloon angioplasty and stenting. The lesions were matched according to location of stenosis and reference diameter. Atherectomy and stenting resulted in larger gains in minimal luminal diameter compared with conventional balloon angioplasty. The minimal luminal diameter was increased from 1.2 +/- 0.4 mm to 2.6 +/- 0.4 mm in the atherectomy group and from 1.2 +/- 0.3 mm to 1.9 +/- 0.4 mm in the angioplasty group (p less than 0.00001). Atherectomy and stenting resulted in similar gains in minimum luminal diameter (1.4 mm vs 1.3 mm, p = NS). In addition, atherectomy and stenting appear to be more effective in resisting elastic recoil because of tissue removal and an intrinsic dilating effect, respectively. In matched populations directional atherectomy and stenting appear to be more effective intracoronary interventional devices than balloon angioplasty based on the immediate results. However, atherectomy is limited in smaller coronary vessels because of its larger size. 
Adaptive changes in the periphery and their therapeutic consequences. Systemic vasoconstriction in chronic heart failure is due to several compensatory mechanisms with different time courses. Peripheral vasoconstriction mediated by increased sympathetic tone and activation of the plasma renin-angiotensin system may act primarily for short-term control. The effects of the vascular renin-angiotensin system, impaired flow-dependent, endothelium-mediated dilation (resulting from chronically reduced flow) and structural alterations of the vessel wall slowly emerge with time. In addition, fluid retention may contribute to increased vascular stiffness in chronic heart failure. Improved cardiac output with acute administration of vasodilators and inotropes is not immediately translated into increased blood flow to skeletal muscle, because (1) the reversal of the peripheral alterations described develops slowly over time (in fact, vasodilators and inotropes given acutely may cause redistribution of blood flow in skeletal muscle without improving oxygen availability); and (2) intrinsic abnormalities of skeletal muscle exist in chronic heart failure (e.g., due to chronic deconditioning, resulting in reduced oxidative capacity of skeletal muscle, as suggested by ultrastructural analysis and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy). Drugs that interfere with the underlying compensatory mechanisms (e.g., renin-angiotensin system) without development of tolerance during long-term therapy exert beneficial effects after long-term treatment (e.g., the beneficial effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are, in part, due to peripheral mechanisms--the inability of the peripheral vessels to dilate--and to improvement of peripheral oxygen extraction). 
Extracorporeal lithotripsy. An important adjunct in the nonoperative management of retained or recurrent bile duct stones. Retained or recurrent bile duct stones can be successfully removed in up to 80% to 85% of patients with the use of percutaneous or endoscopic techniques. However, problems related to difficult biliary access, large stones, and biliary strictures may decrease the success rate of this approach. We evaluated the safety and efficacy of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in 16 patients with complicated biliary stones treated prospectively over a 24-month period. Successful stone fragmentation was achieved in 15 patients (94%) using a Dornier HM3 lithotripter (average of 2290 shocks at 22 kV). Three patients (19%) required a second ESWL treatment. Biliary clearance of stone fragments was spontaneous in seven (43%) of the patients and required additional treatment in eight (57%) of the patients. Complications from ESWL were minor and included transient hematuria and ecchymoses at the skin entry site. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy failed in one patient (6%) with a biliary stricture and surgery was required. At hospital discharge, all patients were asymptomatic and stone free. Treatment with ESWL appears to be a safe and effective adjunct for selected patients with complex biliary stone disease. 
The orthostatic tachycardia syndrome: evaluation of autonomic function and treatment with octreotide and ergot alkaloids. Orthostatic tachycardia is a poorly understood syndrome in which patients develop dizziness, diaphoresis, or palpitations upon shifting from the supine to the upright posture. The present study was performed to determine whether autonomic neuropathy might be present in these patients, and whether the abnormal hemodynamic response to standing might be the result of failure of reflex vasoconstriction. We measured autonomic function in 9 patients with idiopathic orthostatic tachycardia and 2 patients with orthostatic tachycardia and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and compared them to 33 age-matched controls. Although most patients with orthostatic tachycardia had normal vasomotor reflexes and normal surface potential amplitudes, the latency of the autonomic response, a measure of sympathetic nerve conduction velocity, was prolonged in the soles (2.44 +/- 0.08 s in patients with idiopathic orthostatic tachycardia vs. 2.12 +/- 0.04 s in controls; P less than 0.005). In 6 of 9 patients, however, the latencies were within the normal range. Autonomic surface potentials were absent in 1 diabetic patient with orthostatic tachycardia; the latency of the response in the feet was greatly prolonged (2.95 s) in the second patient. We also assessed the response of orthostatic tachycardia patients to octreotide and dihydroergotamine, which are known to have a pressor effect in patients with recognized forms of autonomic neuropathy. These agents, in combination, suppressed orthostatic tachycardia (from 116 +/- 7 to 89 +/- 6 beats/min; P less than 0.001) in patients with this syndrome. In summary, our data indicate that evidence of autonomic dysfunction is present in only a minority of patients with orthostatic tachycardia. Nevertheless, administration of the vasoconstrictor drugs dihydroergotamine and octreotide can prevent the abnormal hemodynamic response to the upright posture shown by patients with this syndrome. 
Crohn disease in the pediatric patient: CT evaluation. Computed tomographic (CT) scans and medical records of 25 children (age range, 10-18 years) with pathologically proved Crohn disease were reviewed to better define the role of CT in the management of pediatric patients with Crohn disease. CT findings included small bowel thickening (range, 5-10 mm) (n = 20), colonic wall thickening (range, 6-15 mm) (n = 15), and small bowel dilation (n = 5). Mesenteric abnormalities such as adenopathy and focal fatty proliferation were seen in 11 to 18 patients, respectively. Extraluminal complications were easily identified with CT. Abscesses were noted in seven patients, inflammatory masses in four, and perirectal or perineal inflammation in 10. Fistulas were detected in four patients. The authors conclude that CT should be the initial imaging study performed in children with known Crohn disease and a changing pattern of clinical symptoms. 
Effect of bisoprolol on blood pressure and arterial hemodynamics in systemic hypertension. Blood pressure, heart rate, common carotid and brachial arterial hemodynamics using pulsed Doppler flowmetry and pulse wave velocity determinations were evaluated using a double-blind crossover design versus placebo in 14 patients with sustained essential hypertension treated by the selective beta 1 blocking agent bisoprolol. Blood pressure and heart rate significantly decreased after bisoprolol, whereas no significant change occurred in the diameter, the blood flow and in the vascular resistance of the carotid and brachial circulations. Pulse wave velocity significantly decreased in the brachioradial and the carotid femoral areas. The decrease in the latter was -1.6 +/- 0.8 m/s with bisoprolol and -0.06 +/- 0.80 m/s with placebo (p = 0.001). Brachial artery compliance significantly increased from 117 +/- 49 to 205 +/- 84 cm4 x dynes-1 x 10(9) (p = 0.001), indicating that the antihypertensive effect of beta 1 blockade is associated with an improvement in the viscoelastic properties of the brachial artery wall. 
J. Maxwell Chamberlain Memorial Paper. Role of staging in prognosis and management of thymoma. Eighty-five patients operated on for thymoma from 1972 to 1989 were evaluated, 32 with myasthenia gravis and 53 without. Masaoka staging revealed stage I disease in 45 (53%), stage II in 23 (27%), stage III in 14 (16%), and stage IVa in 3 (4%). There was no operative mortality. Actuarial survival at 10 years was 63.7% for all patients: 78.3% for those in stage I, 74.7% for those in stage II, and 20.8% for those in stage III. There was no recurrence in patients in stage I. Mediastinal recurrence developed in 4 patients in stage II considered to have noninvasive disease by the surgeon. It is recommended that all patients be followed up for a minimum of 10 years and that all patients in stages II and III receive postoperative radiotherapy. The presence of myasthenia gravis is no longer considered as an adverse factor in survival. 
Rhabdomyolysis following total hip arthroplasty. We report six cases of contralateral limb involvement during total hip arthroplasty including swelling of the gluteal muscle compartments, rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria, and sciatic nerve palsy. The risk factors for such complications include obesity, prolonged operative time, and positioning in the lateral decubitus position. The laboratory and clinical findings are consistent with a gluteal muscle crush-injury with consequent compartment syndrome. The patients should be treated conservatively as symptoms can be expected to resolve. 
Usefulness of the corticotropin-releasing hormone test during bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling for the diagnosis of Cushing's disease. Inferior petrosal sinus blood sampling for ACTH measurement (IPSS) is used for the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome and for the preoperative location of pituitary microadenomas. Intermittent ACTH secretion from pituitary adenomas may result in insignificant differences between petrosal and peripheral ACTH levels at the time of sampling. Thus, pituitary stimulation during IPSS may improve the procedure. The aim of the study was to evaluate the usefulness of CRH injection in combination with IPSS. Twenty-two patients with Cushing's disease (CD; 5 macroadenomas, 16 microadenomas, and 1 corticotroph hyperplasia) and 5 patients with ectopic ACTH syndrome were studied. Bilateral IPSS was successfully carried out on 25 patients. Patients with ectopic ACTH syndrome had, before and after CRH injection, central to peripheral ACTH gradients below 1.7. Four patients with CD had basal gradients below 1.4. After CRH administration all patients with CD had gradients above 3.2. Despite correct location of central catheters, the predicted location of pituitary microadenomas was erroneous in 41% of the cases. It was not improved after CRH injection. In conclusion, the combination of CRH injection with IPSS was useful for the differential diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome, as it increased the discrimination of the procedure. On the contrary, it was useless for the preoperative location of pituitary microadenomas, which was poorly predicted by IPSS. 
Enhancement of ischaemic rabbit skin flap survival with the antioxidant and free-radical scavenger N-acetylcysteine. 1. The burst of damaging oxygen free-radicals at the time of reperfusion is one of the crucial factors affecting skin flap survival after an ischaemic interval. In these experiments the efficacy of the antioxidant and free-radical scavenger N-acetylcysteine in improving the survival of ischaemic rabbit epigastric skin flaps was tested. 2. At the time of reperfusion flaps were given: (1) balanced salt solution by intravenous whole-body administration, (2) N-acetylcysteine (200 mg/kg) by intravenous whole-body administration, (3) balanced salt solution by intra-arterial infusion into the flap, (4) N-acetylcysteine (20 mg/kg) by intra-arterial infusion into the flap, or (5) N-acetylcysteine (200 mg/kg) by intra-arterial infusion into the flap. Flap survival at 1 week, and tissue levels of parameters related to free-radical production, blood levels of thromboxane B2 and peripheral resistance during reperfusion were determined. 3. Compared with controls (groups 1 and 3) which had flap survival rates (expressed as percentage surface area surviving) of 27.1% and 31.6%, respectively. N-acetylcysteine treatment in group 2 (55.2%) and group 4 (51.9%) resulted in significant (P less than 0.05) improvements in flap survival. The survival rate in group 5 (37.7%) was not significantly better than that of the controls. 4. N-Acetylcysteine significantly reduced parameters related to free-radical production in the skin flap after 30 min of reperfusion, determined as tissue levels of malonyldialdehyde and protein oxidation products. There was also a significant decrease in peripheral resistance when low-dose N-acetylcysteine (group 4) was infused intra-arterially into the flap. 
Comparison of neuroendocrine activation in patients with left ventricular dysfunction with and without congestive heart failure. A substudy of the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD). Neuroendocrine activation is known to occur in patients with congestive heart failure, but there is uncertainty as to whether this occurs before or after the presence of overt symptoms. In the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD), a multicenter study of patients with ejection fractions of 35% or less, we compared baseline plasma norepinephrine, plasma renin activity, plasma atrial natriuretic factor, and plasma arginine vasopressin in 56 control subjects, 151 patients with left ventricular dysfunction (no overt heart failure), and 81 patients with overt heart failure before randomization. Median values for plasma norepinephrine (p = 0.0001), plasma atrial natriuretic factor (p less than 0.0001), plasma arginine vasopressin (p = 0.006), and plasma renin activity (p = 0.03) were significantly higher in patients with left ventricular dysfunction than in normal control subjects. Neuroendocrine values were highest in patients with overt heart failure. Plasma renin activity was normal in patients with left ventricular dysfunction without heart failure who were not receiving diuretics and was significantly increased (p less than 0.05) in patients on diuretic therapy. We conclude that neuroendocrine activation occurs in patients with left ventricular dysfunction and no heart failure. Neuroendocrine activation is further increased as overt heart failure ensues and diuretics are added to therapy. 
Use of azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine in the treatment of Crohn's disease. The efficacy and safety of therapy with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine was studied in 78 patients with Crohn's disease. Mean duration of therapy was 1.6 years; 52 patients were treated greater than or equal to 6 months. All patients were also on other antiinflammatory medications. Evaluations included self-assessment and physician's assessment of well-being, functional capacity, general clinical response, clinical activities indices (National Foundation for Ileitis and Colitis/International Organization for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease and Harvey-Bradshaw), and achievement of specific therapeutic goals. General clinical condition improved in 70% of the patients. Median response time was 3 months. The average Harvey-Bradshaw score decreased 37% with therapy, and a decrease of greater than or equal to 30% occurred in 66% of the subjects. An overall 72% achievement rate for specified therapeutic goals included controlling refractory disease, 73%; corticosteroid "sparing," 76%; and lessening fistulization, 63%. Nine patients got worse despite therapy. Adverse effects requiring discontinuation of therapy occurred in 10%, whereas dosages were briefly lowered for mild side effects in another 10%. This study demonstrates the effectiveness and safety of azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine in the majority of selected patients with chronic, unremitting, or steroid-requiring Crohn's disease. 
Clinical, biochemical, and morphological correlates in patients bearing growth hormone-secreting pituitary tumors with or without constitutively active adenylyl cyclase. Somatic mutations in the alpha-chain (alpha s) of the stimulatory regulatory protein of adenylyl cyclase (Gs) causing constitutive activation of the enzyme have been identified in a subset of human GH-secreting pituitary adenomas. This study reports on the differences between acromegalic patients bearing tumors without (group 1; n = 51) or with (group 2; n = 29) this alteration. No difference in age, sex, clinical features, duration of the disease, or cure rate was observed between the two groups. By contrast, group 2 patients had higher basal GH levels than group 1. Moreover, a significant difference in sellar morphology was found; group 2 patients more frequently showed sellas of normal size (grade I) than group 1. Hypersecretory activity of group 2 tumors was also apparent at electron microscopy; contrary to those of group 1, cells of group 2 tumors were densely granulated and showed prominent rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex. With respect to group 1, group 2 patients were less responsive to GH-releasing hormone, while they were more sensitive to somatostatin- and dopamine-induced GH inhibition. These results suggest that patients with constitutively active adenylyl cyclase have hyperactive tumors; the sensitivity of these tumors to inhibitory agents (somatostatin and dopamine), possibly counteracting the expression of activating mutations, might explain the low rate of tumor growth. 
Hearing improvement after acoustic tumor removal. Hearing improvement after removal of an acoustic tumor is an uncommon occurrence. Hearing improvement was observed in 8.5% of acoustic tumor removals performed using the middle fossa approach in an attempt to preserve hearing. Improvement in speech discrimination occurred most frequently and was of greatest magnitude compared with changes in the speech reception threshold or pure-tone average. No preoperative factors were predictive of postoperative hearing improvement. Findings support the conclusion that candidates for hearing preservation surgery should be chosen on the merits of their existing preoperative hearing and not on the basis of anticipated improvement. 
Diabetes Intervention Study. Multi-intervention trial in newly diagnosed NIDDM. OBJECTIVE: In a randomized 5-yr multi-intervention trial, we tested the efficacy of intensified health education (IHE) in improving metabolic control and reducing the level of coronary risk factors and incidence of ischemic heart disease (IHD). RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Within the intervention group, the benefit of clofibric acid was evaluated in a double-blind study. One thousand one hundred thirty-nine newly diagnosed middle-aged (30- to 55-yr-old) patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) entered the study. They were classified as diet controlled after a 6-wk screening phase with conventional dietary treatment. During the follow-up, the control group (n = 378) was cared for at different diabetes outpatient clinics with a standardized surveillance. The intervention group (n = 761) had a structured IHE that included dietary advice, antismoking and antialcohol education, and ways to enhance physical activity. RESULTS: Randomly, 379 of the IHE patients received 1.6 g clofibric acid/day, and the others received placebo. IHE resulted in improved glucose control (adjusted fasting blood glucose) levels after 5 yr (control subjects 9.27 mM, IHE group 8.71 mM, and IHE plus clofibric acid group 8.60 mM, P less than 0.01). The better glycemic control was achieved with fewer antidiabetic drugs. After 5 yr, antidiabetic drugs were prescribed to 47% of the control subjects, 28% of the IHE group, and 34% of the IHE plus clofibric acid group (cutoff limit for drug application was postprandial blood glucose of greater than or equal to 13.87 mM). The ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids (0.26 vs. 0.40, P less than 0.01) and physical activity (174 vs. 327 scores, P less than 0.01) were increased, and blood pressure, tobacco, and alcohol consumption were significantly reduced by IHE. However, IHE had no effect on calorie intake, percentage of fat in the diet (45%), and body weight. The most important finding was the significant increase of blood cholesterol in all three groups (+0.47, +0.36, and +0.34 mM, respectively). Clofibric acid only prevented the increase of triglyceride levels (+0.56, +0.24, and +0.05 mM, respectively). The incidence rate per 1000 for myocardial infarction was 30.3 for control subjects, 53.6 for the IHE group, and 55.6 for the IHE plus clofibric acid group. The corresponding rates for IHD incidence were 90.9, 97.8, and 98.8, respectively. Men suffered more frequently from myocardial infarction, whereas women developed ECG criteria for IHD more frequently. Among the 35 cases of death, besides cardiovascular diseases, liver cirrhosis and neoplasia were the predominant causes. The death rate per 1000 in control subjects was 46.2, 30.6 in the IHE group, and 27 among patients with IHE plus clofibric acid. CONCLUSIONS: IHE was of substantial benefit for the control of glycemia, significantly diminished the need for antidiabetic drugs, and reduced a cluster of risk factors but had no effect on the control of blood lipids. This could be one major reason for the failure of IHE, effective lowering of blood pressure, and clofibric acid to prevent cardiovascular complications. Clofibric acid was only effective in reducing triglycerides. 
Epidemiology of colonic symptoms and the irritable bowel syndrome. Functional gastrointestinal disease is believed to be very common, but reports of its prevalence have not usually evaluated random community samples, and validated questionnaires have not been used to elicit symptoms. The prevalence of specific colonic symptoms and the irritable bowel syndrome among representative middle-aged whites was determined from a defined population, and the impact of these symptoms on presentation for medical care was measured. An age- and sex-stratified random sample of 1021 residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, aged 30-64 years, was obtained. All subjects were mailed a valid self-report questionnaire that identified gastrointestinal symptoms and functional gastrointestinal disorders. The response rate was 82% (n = 835). The age- and sex-adjusted prevalence of abdominal pain (more than six times in the prior year) was 26.2 per 100 (95% confidence interval, 23.1-29.2). The prevalence of chronic constipation (hard stools and straining and/or less than 3 stools per week greater than 25% of the time) was 17.4 (95% confidence interval, 14.8-20.0), whereas the prevalence of chronic diarrhea (loose watery stools, and/or greater than 3 stools per day greater than 25% of the time) was 17.9 (95% confidence interval, 15.3-20.5). The prevalence of abdominal pain and disturbed defecation was similar in women and men, except that infrequent defecation and straining at stool were more common in women. Using the Manning symptom criteria to identify irritable bowel syndrome (greater than or equal to 2 of 6 symptoms in those with abdominal pain more than six times in the prior year), the prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome was 17.0 per 100 (95% confidence interval, 14.4-19.6). Overall, 71 persons (9%) reported visiting a physician for abdominal pain or disturbed defecation in the prior year; a subset of variables related to pain severity were the best predictors of health care seeking after adjustment for age and gender. However, these accounted for only 22% of the log likelihood. In conclusion, more than one third of an unselected middle-aged population reported chronic abdominal pain or disturbed defecation, and more than one in six had symptoms compatible with the irritable bowel syndrome. Only a minority had presented for medical evaluation; moreover, the characteristics of the abdominal complaints did not explain the seeking of health care in most cases. 
The development of penicillin-resistant oral streptococci after repeated penicillin prophylaxis. Oral streptococci may cause infective endocarditis in patients with susceptible cardiac disease after dental treatment. Multiple dental visits, each preceded by penicillin prophylaxis, may result in the unwanted development of resistant oral streptococci. This study was undertaken to determine whether resistant oral streptococci would develop after the repeated use of penicillin prophylaxis in healthy adults. Plaque samples were collected from 20 subjects on each Monday for 5 successive weeks. Each subject was administered 2 gm penicillin V followed by 1 gm 6 hours later (standard prophylaxis regimen of the American Heart Association), on three successive Mondays (weeks 2, 3, and 4). The total cultivable oral streptococci and penicillin-resistant oral streptococci were determined for each plaque sample, and representative colonies of resistant streptococci were speciated. During the study, there was a significant increase in the number of subjects who harbored penicillin-resistant oral streptococci. However, with the exception of one subject who had resistant streptococci throughout the study, the number of resistant strains represented only 0.0003% to 0.41% of the total cultivable oral streptococci. 
Snoring and the risk of ischemic brain infarction. To determine if a history of snoring is a risk factor for brain infarction, I conducted a case-control study of risk factors for ischemic stroke using 177 consecutive male patients aged 16-60 (mean 49) years with acute brain infarction. For each patient I chose an age-matched (+/- 6 years) male control. Arterial hypertension, coronary heart disease, snoring (habitually or often), and heavy drinking (greater than 300 g/wk) were risk factors in the stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis. The odds ratio of snoring for brain infarction was 2.13. By McNemar's test this association increased strongly if a history of sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, and obesity were all present with snoring (odds ratio 8.00). My study indicates that snoring may be a risk factor for ischemic stroke, possibly because of the higher prevalence of an obstructive sleep apnea syndrome among snorers than nonsnorers. 
Kinetic modeling of in vivo--nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy data: 5-fluorouracil in liver and liver tumors. Kinetic modeling has been applied to the time course of the nuclear magnetic resonance signal intensities of 5-fluorouracil and the sum of its catabolites, alpha-fluoro-beta-ureido propanoic acid and alpha-fluoro-beta-alanine, as monitored in liver tumors of seven patients with cancer after brief intraarterial infusion of 5-fluorouracil. Because these data represent only relative tissue concentrations, only ratios of clearance and volume parameters can be estimated (e.g., clearance/central volume of distribution or central volume of distribution/steady-state volume of distribution). On the other hand, parameters that do not refer to volumes, such as half-lives or maximal velocity of metabolic conversion of a nonlinear model, can be estimated in absolute terms. A nonlinear three-compartment model gave satisfactory fits with all of the individual data sets. Kinetics of 5-fluorouracil and catabolites were similar in five patients with metastases of colorectal adenocarcinomas but differed from those of two patients with cholangiocarcinoma and metastases of an anaplastic carcinoma of unknown origin, respectively. 
Percutaneous cooling of ischemic myocardium by hypothermic retroperfusion of autologous arterial blood: effects on regional myocardial temperature distribution and infarct size. The effects of synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion of cooled autologous arterial blood on regional myocardial temperature distribution and infarct size were studied in open chest dogs with 3.5 h of left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion. After 30 min of occlusion, the dogs were randomly assigned to one of three groups: 1) untreated control group (n = 5), 2) normothermic retroperfusion group (infusion temperature 32 degrees C) (n = 7), and 3) hypothermic retroperfusion group (infusion temperature 15 degrees C) (n = 7). Regional myocardial temperatures were measured by using needle-tipped thermistors stabbed in the 1) anterior wall distal to the occlusion site, 2) anterior wall proximal to the occlusion site, 3) left lateral wall, 4) posterior wall, and 5) right ventricular free wall. Rectal and pulmonary artery temperatures were also measured. In the hypothermic retroperfusion group, the anterior wall temperature decreased rapidly by 5 degrees C at 15 min of retroperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. normothermic retroperfusion or untreated control groups), whereas the temperature at other sites decreased with a linear trend over time. Myocardial temperatures in the ischemic area (distal anterior wall) were generally lower than those in the other sites during the first 60 min of hypothermic retroperfusion and the largest intramyocardial temperature difference (3.6 degrees C) was found at 15 min after retroperfusion. Infarct size expressed as a percent of the risk area was significantly smaller in the hypothermic retroperfusion group (6.2 +/- 3.3%) than in the control (64.9 +/- 14%) or normothermic retroperfusion groups (24.1 +/- 6.7%). 
Comprehensive evaluation and treatment of 75 men referred to chronic prostatitis clinic. We investigated the role of genitourinary tract infections, structural and psychologic abnormalities in 75 men referred to a "chronic prostatitis" clinic. Patients had had symptoms for an average of eighty-three months and had received an average of ten weeks of antimicrobial treatment during the three months prior to evaluation. Specific infectious diseases, structural or functional causes were identified in 34 (45%) of the 75 patients. Genitourinary tract pathogens were isolated from 26 patients and inflammation was documented in urethral or prostatic secretions of 24 patients. Structural or functional abnormalities that merited treatment were identified in 8 cases. In addition, major criteria for depression were documented in 9 of 17 patients who agreed to this evaluation. Overall, a comprehensive approach to diagnosis led to specific treatment for 37 (49%) of the 75 men with chronic prostatitis, despite longstanding symptoms and failure of multiple prior courses of therapy. 
A new anticancer drug delivery system for the management of carcinomatous peritonitis. To develop a new drug delivery system for the treatment of carcinomatous peritonitis, we constructed 5-fluorouracil poly L-microcapsules (5Fu-mc) by the organic phase separation technique and examined their drug-releasing capacities and anticancer effects. The microcapsules consisted of in vitro dissolvable polymolecular poly L-lactic acid and 5-fluorouracil (5Fu). The 5Fu-mc was about 200 microns in diameter and had a 5Fu content of about 40% (weight/weight). 5Fu-release time from the microcapsules was about 50 hours in vitro and about 48 hours in vivo. After the release of the 5Fu, the poly L-lactic acid was metabolized very slowly in the peritoneal cavity. The 5Fu-mc caused fewer side effects than the equivalent dose of a 5Fu solution. In addition, macroscopic and microscopic examinations of various abdominal organs revealed no toxic effects from the microcapsules. After administration of 5Fu-mc into the abdominal cavity of rats with AH-130 carcinomatous peritonitis, the 5Fu concentration remained at a high level for an extended period in the ascites but fell rapidly to low levels in the plasma. In conclusion, the present studies indicated that the 5Fu-mc were much more effective in prolonging the life of tumor-bearing hosts while producing less systemic side effects than a 5Fu solution. 
Acyclovir therapy in neonates. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the pharmacokinetic parameters of acyclovir disposition in neonates with renal dysfunction. DESIGN: Prospective sequential open enrollment of neonates with presumed herpes group virus infections. SETTING: Neonatal intensive care units in the greater Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. PATIENTS: Sixteen neonates with gestational ages between 27 and 40 weeks (median 38 weeks) were given acyclovir between days 1 and 56 of life to treat presumed herpes virus infections. Six infants were critically ill with multisystem disease, five infants had hepatic failure and underwent blood exchange transfusion, and five infants had renal failure. A mean of four (range 1 to 19) serum acyclovir concentrations per patient were measured by radioimmunoassay. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated from acyclovir concentrations in 46 samples from 16 patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The pharmacokinetic disposition of acyclovir was described as a two-compartment model. Although the ranges for acyclovir clearance and terminal elimination (t 1/2 beta) were wide, a statistically significant relationship was demonstrated between clearance and beta versus serum creatinine concentration. The average t 1/2 beta for infants with serum creatinine level less than 1 mg/dl (88 mumol/L) was 5.0 hours, and 15.6 hours for those with serum creatinine level greater than 1 mg/dl. CONCLUSIONS: Neonates with hepatic or renal dysfunction or young premature infants accumulate acyclovir when dosed without adjustment for organ dysfunction. Measurement of serum creatinine or creatinine clearance can be useful in the dosing of acyclovir in neonates. 
Blood loss after total knee replacement. Effects of tourniquet release and continuous passive motion. We prospectively studied the cases of 121 patients who were being operated on for insertion of a unilateral total knee prosthesis with cement, and we placed them randomly in four groups. In Group I, the tourniquet was inflated throughout the operative procedure, and we released it postoperatively after a compressive dressing had been applied; a splint was used postoperatively for three days. In Group II, the tourniquet remained inflated throughout the operation, but no splint was applied postoperatively, and continuous passive motion was started immediately in the recovery room. In Group III, the tourniquet was released intraoperatively, and hemostasis was achieved by cauterization; postoperatively, a compressive dressing was applied, and a splint was used for three days. In Group IV, the tourniquet was released intraoperatively, hemostasis was established, and then the tourniquet was reinflated; a compressive dressing was applied, and continuous passive motion was started immediately in the recovery room. Hemoglobin and hematocrit values were monitored in all patients. Blood loss in suction drainage was recorded, and the total blood loss was calculated. The results show that total knee arthroplasty is associated with major loss of blood (mean, 1518 milliliters). The calculated blood loss for Groups I, II, and III averaged 1443 milliliters, while that for Group IV averaged 1793 milliliters. Loss in suction drainage correlated with total estimated blood loss and averaged 511 milliliters. The magnitude of blood loss after total knee arthroplasty should be appreciated, and special attention should be paid to the availability of adequate fluid and blood products, preferably blood donated by the patient preoperatively. 
Pregnancy outcome in patients with high titer anti-RNP antibodies. A retrospective study of 40 pregnancies. In a retrospective study the outcome of 40 pregnancies in 20 women with a high titer of anti-RNP antibodies was evaluated. In the 18 pregnancies that occurred after disease onset, transient proteinuria was noted in 3 and transient thrombocytopenia in 2. Deep venous thrombosis was observed in one patient. Preeclampsia in another woman necessitated cesarean sections in 2 pregnancies with successful outcome. The observed complications may all be seen in normal pregnancies. There was no evidence of exacerbation of maternal disease during pregnancy or in the postpartum period. Our study indicates that in women with high anti-RNP titer the risk of fetal loss or maternal worsening of disease seems slight. 
Effusion cytology. Cytologic evaluation is the best way to detect the presence of malignancy in body cavity fluids. Although a positive diagnosis is highly reliable, a negative result does not rule out a malignant cause. Adenocarcinomas, well-differentiated squamous carcinomas, small-cell carcinomas, malignant melanomas, large-cell lymphomas, and acute leukemias are accurately classified when present in effusions. The definitive diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma, small-cell lymphomas, and chronic leukemias, and subclassification of sarcomas and poorly differentiated neoplasms are difficult and may require additional diagnostic techniques. With a few exceptions, the exact causes of benign effusions cannot be determined by cytologic methods. 
Safety of simultaneous aortic reconstruction and renal transplantation. Patients with aortic disease and end-stage renal failure who require both aortic reconstruction and renal transplantation (simultaneously or staged) pose a formidable clinical challenge. Traditionally, the performance of either one of these procedures has been viewed as a relative contraindication to the performance of the other. From 1978 to 1989, eight patients were referred to us with the combination of aortic disease and end-stage renal failure. Seven had aneurysmal disease and one had aorto-iliac occlusive disease. Five patients presented with their diseases sequentially and had two sequential operations, with a mean interval of 4 years between procedures. Three patients presented with their diseases simultaneously and underwent simultaneous aortic reconstruction and living related renal transplantation. All patients were followed up for a mean interval of 4.5 years. By life-table analysis, the 5-year renal graft survival was 100%, the primary aortic graft patency was 82%, and the secondary aortic graft patency was 100%. The only death in this series occurred 11 years after aortic reconstruction and 4 months after a renal transplantation and was due to overwhelming cytomegalovirus sepsis. There were no significant differences between the simultaneous and staged groups in terms of operative mortality, postoperative complications, transplant function, or aortic graft patency. From this experience, we conclude that: (1) patients who present simultaneously with aortic disease and end-stage renal failure can safely undergo simultaneous aortic reconstruction and renal transplantation; (2) patients who present with these two diseases sequentially can undergo a second reconstructive procedure with very low operative morbidity and mortality rates; (3) when these two procedures have been performed sequentially, the second procedure has not significantly altered the 30-day or 5-year results of the first procedure; and (4) the 30-day and 5-year results of each procedure have been excellent regardless of the temporal sequence in which they were performed. 
Biomagnetic localization of ventricular arrhythmias. The magnetic fields caused by electrical activity of the human heart can be coherently measured with a highly sensitive, multichannel, superconducting quantum interference-device system and can enable noninvasive localization of the underlying electrical activity. The magnetocardiograms (MCGs) of 10 patients with spontaneous premature ventricular complexes (PVCs), three patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT), and four healthy subjects with induced paced beats were recorded for 2-15 minutes. After correction for superimposed repolarization activity, the site of origin of the arrhythmias was localized from the magnetic field distribution at the onset of the ectopic beats. The localization results of paced beats showed an error of a few millimeters in relation to the position of the catheter tip. The results of spontaneous PVC and VT were confirmed with endocardial mapping or associated with ischemic lesions. The authors conclude that multichannel magnetocardiographic studies enable the completely noninvasive localization of ventricular arrhythmias. 
Primary tumors of the facial (extracranial) nerve. Nearly 25% of all primary neurogenous tumors arise from peripheral nerves in the head and neck. The extracranial parts of the facial nerve, however, rank low as potential sites. Their tumors nonetheless pose diagnostic and management problems. In the intraparotid location the neurogenous tumors most often present as mass lesions, accompanied, in one third of patients, by various degrees of facial weakness. With the exception of a peculiar predilection of childhood plexiform neurofibromas to afflict the facial nerve, the majority of the tumors are neurilemomas. Recurrences are unusual after surgical removal of either neurilemomas or neurofibromas. The rare facial nerve sarcoma is a high-grade malignancy. 
Giant axonal neuropathy and leukodystrophy. An 11-year-old Persian boy, born to consanguineous parents, manifested a progressive gait abnormality beginning at 5 years of age. A severe cerebellar disorder developed with associated dysfunction of the peripheral nervous system, but no sign of mental impairment. The sensory and motor nerve conduction velocities were greatly reduced, especially in the lower extremities. Cerebrospinal fluid protein was normal. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed leukoencephalopathy, especially in the cerebellum, but also in periventricular areas. The diagnosis of giant axonal neuropathy was established by biopsy of the sural nerve. The few previous histologic examinations have documented hyperplasia of the microfibrils which accumulate in the axons as well as in neurilemma, endothelial, and perineural cells. This is the first report of involvement of supraspinal portions of the central nervous system documented by postmortem examination after in vivo imaging methods corroborated the morphologic concomitants of the clinical symptoms. 
Efficacy of intraarterial heparin in maintaining microvascular patency: an experimental model. Human-grade sodium heparin was studied to determine thrombosis model patency rates between an intraarterial infusion versus an intravenous method of delivery in a rabbit model. Specific differences in patency and partial thromboplastin times were studied in each group and compared with a saline-perfused group. Three animal groups (New Zealand white rabbits) were established (total = 35 animals). Standardized femoral arterial 5-mm inversion grafts (AIG) were done in each animal in each group. The animals in the control group received intravenous saline infusion, while the two treatment groups received intravenous heparin (12 animals) or intraarterial heparin (12 animals minus 1 anesthesia death). The route of instillation of the infusate was selected at random after completing the inversion grafts. A proximal epigastric branch was utilized for access in those animals randomized to the intraarterial group. Intravenous delivery was accomplished by means of a femoral venous catheter in the vena cava. A 72-hour period of infusion was used in all animals. A dose of 45 units per hour of heparin following a 500-unit bolus was used in the intravenous group. After an identical bolus dose, 25 units per hour of heparin was administered in the intraarterial group. The control (saline group) was given 1 cc saline (in a volume equal to the heparin-dosed groups) daily for 3 days. Arterial inversion graft patency rates were assessed by direct inspection at day 5. Systemic and regional (i.e., distal to the inversion graft) partial thromboplastin times (PTT) were measured in representative control, IV, and intraarterial heparin-treated groups. Complications were recorded. 
Attaching and effacing enteropathogenic Escherichia coli as a cause of infantile diarrhea in Bangkok. To identify Escherichia coli that cause infantile diarrhea in Bangkok, Thailand, E. coli isolated in a year-long study of infantile diarrhea were examined for O and H serotypes and virulence determinants. Classic enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC) were isolated from 28 of 509 infants with diarrhea (cases) and 11 of 509 age-matched controls (P = .009; odds ratio [OR], 2.64). Most of this difference was attributable to EPEC adherence factor (EAF)-positive EPEC that produced an attachment and effacement lesion, as identified in the fluorescence actin staining assay, isolated from 13 cases and 1 control (P = .003; OR, 13.3). EAF-EPEC was isolated from 15 cases and 10 controls (P = .418; OR, 1.52) and EAF+ non-EPEC from 17 cases and 10 controls (P = .242; OR, 1.72). EAF+EPEC that caused an attachment and effacement lesion was found in 3% of children less than 6 months old with diarrhea who were studied in an outpatient clinic in Bangkok in 1988. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the spleen. Report of two cases with a review of the literature. This study reports two cases of inflammatory pseudotumor of the spleen. The first case was a 57-year-old woman in whom the splenic mass was an incidental finding during evaluation for an acute abdomen due to a perforated, lithiasic gallbladder. The mass in the spleen measured 12.7 cm in greatest dimension. The second case was of a 46-year-old woman with a palpable, left upper quadrant mass. A computed tomography scan revealed a splenic mass and the spleen was removed. The mass measured 12 cm in greatest dimension. In a review of the literature, 13 examples of splenic inflammatory pseudotumor were reported. The age range was 19 to 75 years, with a median age of 50 years. The splenic lesions were either discovered incidentally or manifested by left upper quadrant discomfort and/or mass. Inflammatory pseudotumor of the spleen, although rare, is being increasingly recognized and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of mass lesions of the spleen. 
Sixteenth Daniel C. Baker, Jr, memorial lecture. Surgical management of supraglottic cancer and its lymph node metastases in a conservative perspective. Supraglottic laryngectomy combined with functional elective or curative neck dissection is a priceless contribution toward treatment of supraglottic cancer and its lymph node metastases. The history and background of this conservative approach is reviewed. Results related to staging are presented. Irradiation as a combined or alternative therapy is considered. 
Role of hepatitis delta virus infection in hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA integrates into the host DNA and shows a series of potentially oncogenetic properties, but HBV is not an acutely transforming virus, because HCC develops decades after infection. Other factors, namely cirrhosis, inflammation, alcohol intake, and viral superinfections, could promote the oncogenetic process induced by HBV-DNA integration. We studied the impact of HDV infection in the pathogenesis of HCC in 62 consecutive patients. Their mean age was 59 years (range 25-75 years), 54 were male and eight female; 58 had cirrhosis. The findings suggest that HBsAg-positive patients with HDV superinfection developed cirrhosis and HCC at an earlier age than HBsAg carriers without HDV infection. HDV appears to represent a "promotion" factor for HCC in subjects with an oncogenic risk induced by HBV. A long-lasting necroinflammatory lesion of the liver substained by productive HBV and HDV infections may be a major pathogenetic mechanism. 
Chronic dermal ulcer healing enhanced with monophasic pulsed electrical stimulation. The purposes of this randomized, double-blind, multicenter study were to compare healing of chronic dermal ulcers treated with pulsed electrical stimulation with healing of similar wounds treated with sham electrical stimulation and to evaluate patient tolerance to the therapeutic protocol. Forty-seven patients, aged 29 to 91 years, with 50 stage II, III, and IV ulcers were randomly assigned to either a treatment group (n = 26) or a control (sham treatment) group (n = 24). Treated wounds received 30 minutes of pulsed cathodal electrical stimulation twice daily at a pulse frequency of 128 pulses per second (pps) and a peak amplitude of 29.2 mA if the wound contained necrotic tissue or any drainage that was not serosanguinous. A saline-moistened nontreatment electrode was applied 30.5 cm (12 in) cephalad from the wound. This protocol was continued for 3 days after the wound was debrided or exhibited serosanguinous drainage. Thereafter, the polarity of the treatment electrode on the wound was changed every 3 days until the wound progressed to a stage II classification. The pulse frequency was then reduced to 64 pps, and the treatment electrode polarity was changed daily until the wound was healed. Patients in the control group were treated with the same protocol, except they received sham electrical stimulation. After 4 weeks, wounds in the treatment and control groups were 44% and 67% of their initial size, respectively. The healing rates per week for the treatment and control groups were 14% and 8.25%, respectively. The results of this study indicate that pulsed electrical stimulation has a beneficial effect on healing stage II, III, and IV chronic dermal ulcers. 
Levamisole for corticosteroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome in childhood. British Association for Paediatric Nephrology. In children with corticosteroid-responsive nephrotic syndrome who are dependent on high-dose prednisolone, alkylating therapy often fails to maintain a remission, and long-term immunosuppression may be hazardous. An alternative approach to treatment is to use an immunostimulant such as levamisole. 61 children with frequently relapsing corticosteroid sensitive and dependent nephrotic syndrome were randomly allocated to receive levamisole, 2.5 mg/kg on alternate days (31 patients) or placebo (30 patients) for a maximum of 112 days. After entry to the trial, prednisolone was progressively reduced and was stopped by 56 days. The two groups were well matched for age and sex distribution, indices of corticosteroid toxicity, and previous alkylating therapy. 14 patients in the levamisole group and 4 in the placebo group remained in remission at 112 days (log rank analysis p less than 0.01). No significant adverse events were recorded. Levamisole is effective in maintaining a steroid-free remission in this condition and has few side-effects. 
Lack of efficacy of high-dose leucovorin and fluorouracil in patients with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Leucovorin potentiates the cytotoxicity of fluorouracil (5-FU) in experimental tumor systems and appears to enhance the effectiveness of 5-FU in patients with colon cancer. Twenty-two eligible patients (18 previously untreated) with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma were treated in a phase II trial of leucovorin 500 mg/m2/d for 6 days by continuous intravenous infusion with 5-FU 370 mg/m2/d by rapid intravenous injection on 5 consecutive days, beginning 24 hours after initiation of leucovorin infusion. Among the 20 assessable patients, there were no complete or partial regressions, although there was one minor response lasting 4 months. Three patients had stable disease for 5, 20, and 21 months, respectively. Median survival was 10 weeks. Toxicity was predominantly mucosal; stomatitis grade 2 or worse was seen in five patients, and diarrhea grade 2 or worse was seen in four. Hospitalization for toxicity was necessary in four previously untreated patients and three previously treated patients. The median WBC nadir was 4.6 (range, 1.4 to 9.6) x 10(3)/microL, and the median platelet nadir was 147.0 (range, 69.0 to 240.0) x 10(3)/microL. This combination of leucovorin and 5-FU did not demonstrate meaningful therapeutic activity in patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas and was associated with moderate to severe toxicity. It should not be considered a standard treatment for patients with this disease. 
Percutaneous placement of Hickman catheters: comparison of sonographically guided and blind techniques. We studied the value of sonographically guided puncture of the subclavian vein for placement of indwelling right atrial and permanent subcutaneously tunneled catheters (Hickman) for long-term venous access. The commonly used blind puncture is associated with complications such as pneumothorax, arterial puncture, and hemothorax. The results and complications of 40 sonographically guided punctures and fluoroscopically controlled catheterizations of the subclavian vein (group 1, 31 patients) performed in the radiology department were compared with those of 40 blind percutaneous punctures and fluoroscopically controlled catheterizations (group 2, 29 patients) performed in the operating room. The patients were selected consecutively. The groups were comparable in age, sex, and indication for catheter placement; administration of chemotherapy for hematologic malignancies was the major indication (group 1, 84%; group 2, 83%). All punctures in group 1 were successful; group 2 had two failures (5%). Puncture-related complications occurred significantly more in group 2 (10%) than in group 1 (0%) (p less than .05). These complications were pneumothorax in three cases and hemothorax in one. Complications not related to the puncture technique were prolonged bleeding at the entrance site (groups 1 and 2, two cases each), local infection (group 1, one case), thrombosis (group 1, three cases; group 2, two), catheter sepsis (group 1, 10 cases; group 2, 14), catheter occlusion (group 2, three cases), and catheter migration (groups 1 and 2, two cases each). We conclude that sonographically guided puncture increases the success rate and significantly decreases the puncture-related complications of percutaneous placement of Hickman catheters. 
Operative laparoscopy with the Nd:YAG laser in the treatment of endometriosis and pelvic adhesions. A multicenter, prospective trial was initiated to test the effectiveness and safety of the Nd:YAG laser equipped with artificial sapphire contact tips for the laparoscopic treatment of pelvic pain. Ninety-three women were enrolled in the study, 37 with endometriosis alone, 47 with endometriosis complicated by pelvic adhesions, and 9 women with adhesions alone. In over 90% of adhesions and 96% of endometriotic implants the Nd:YAG laser could be delivered to the site and be used to restore normal anatomy. The exception was deep bowel involvement with endometriosis, which was not treated. The majority of women had marked reduction or resolution of their symptoms for up to 12 months postoperatively. We conclude that the use of the Nd:YAG laser is an appropriate method to laparoscopically treat pelvic pain resulting from endometriosis or pelvic adhesions. 
Adult lipophagic atrophic panniculitis. We report two patients with chronic, recurrent, nodular panniculitis lesions that later developed areas of lipoatrophy. Histologically, there was a consistent lobular lipophagic replacement of fat cells with lipophagic giant cells. The clinical appearance was that of tender, erythematous, superficial or subcutaneous, symmetrical nodules and plaques of 1-2 weeks' duration. The lesions could occur with episodes of fever. One patient had hepatomegaly and the other had an increased sedimentation rate and leucocytosis. The histology and the clinical pattern of the panniculitus syndrome resembled those of lipophagic lipoatrophy of childhood. This is a panniculitis of unknown cause in which the principal inflammatory cell response in the subcutaneous tissue is the macrophage. 
Flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Using two colour immunofluorescence with fluorescein isothiocyanate and phycoerythrin labelled monoclonal antibodies, multi-parameter flow cytometry was used to examine the antigenic characteristics of peripheral blood lymphocytes in whole blood of patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease who were not taking immunosuppressive drugs. The numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes in patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease remained unchanged so that the CD4/CD8 ratio was the same as that of normal control subjects. In Crohn's disease there were many activated T cells (CD3+, CD25+). Although natural killer cells in active Crohn's disease were lower than in normal control subjects, cytotoxic T lymphocytes, as defined by CD3+, CD16+, did not differ in patients with inflammatory bowel disease compared with normal control subjects. For B cell subsets, there were differences in Leu-1+ B cells, Leu-8+ B cells, Fc epsilon R+B cells (Leu-16+, Leu-20+), and activated B cells (Leu-12+, Leu-21+) between patients with inflammatory bowel disease and normal control subjects. These differences are compatible with local activation of B cells in the inflamed colon. 
Carcinoma of the rectum: a 10-year experience. A consecutive series of 303 patients with carcinoma of the rectum and distal sigmoid colon treated by a single surgeon over a 10-year period are reported. Of these, 202 underwent an anterior resection, 85 an abdominoperineal excision of the rectum and 16 a coloanal anastomosis. Surgery was considered palliative in 52 patients undergoing anterior resection and 24 undergoing abdominoperineal resection. The 30-day hospital mortality rate was six patients (3 per cent) for anterior resection and two patients (2 per cent) for abdominoperineal resection. Peroperative anastomotic testing demonstrated leakage in five stapled anastomoses; these were rectified and no clinical sequelae occurred. Two patients (1 per cent) developed a clinical anastomotic leak, one of which proved fatal; in each case the intraoperative test was negative. The overall 5-year survival rate was 64 per cent after anterior resection and 52 per cent after abdominoperineal resection; the median follow-up was 64 months. The incidence of local pelvic recurrence was 6.4 per cent after anterior resection and 14 per cent after abdominoperineal (not significant). These results confirm the success of sphincter-saving anterior resection combined with total mesorectal excision, routine full mobilization of the splenic flexure and cancercidal lavage of the distal rectum in the treatment of low rectal carcinomas; morbidity, local recurrence and survival are not compromised. 
Internal mammary artery to lung parenchyma fistula after aortocoronary bypass grafting. Two unusual cases of internal mammary artery fistulization to lung parenchyma after coronary revascularization are reported. They were incidentally discovered during coronary angiography, and one of them was successfully closed with a percutaneous transvenous coil-spring occluder. The cause is thought to be the direct contact between the dissected mammary artery pedicle and the lung parenchyma. 
Diffuse neonatal hemangiomatosis: a new constellation of findings. Diffuse neonatal hemangiomatosis is a rare, frequently fatal disease characterized by multiple cutaneous and visceral hemangiomas. The skin, liver, lungs, intestines, and central nervous system are the most commonly affected organs. Death can result from high-output cardiac failure as a result of arteriovenous shunting. In this report we present a new constellation of findings in a patient with diffuse neonatal hemangiomatosis, namely, an absent corpus callosum, ectopia cordis (sternal agenesis) with median abdominal raphe, and tricuspid atresia. 
Laparotomy closure reinforced with buried polyglyconate retention sutures. A method of laparotomy closure using continuous no. 0 polyglycolic acid suture for accurate fascial approximation and buried retention sutures of no. 1 polyglyconate for prolonged wound strength is described. Both security and anatomical precision in fascial closure are achieved without the use of nonabsorbable suture material. This method of laparotomy closure is suitable for patients at high risk for fascial dehiscence. 
Adjuvant radiation therapy in patients with detectable prostate specific antigen following radical prostatectomy. Adjuvant radiation therapy following radical prostatectomy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate was given to 25 patients. Of these patients 8 had microscopic lymph node metastasis, 8 had seminal vesicle invasion without positive lymph nodes, 6 had positive surgical margins and 3 had only capsule penetration. Their only evidence of residual disease was detectable serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) by the Yang assay. A total of 15 patients (60%) had a subsequent decrease in PSA to less than 0.3 ng./ml. and an additional 5 (20%) had a decrease in PSA by more than 50%. Currently 8 patients have no detectable PSA after a median followup of 18 months (17 to 38 months) since initiating radiation therapy. Only 1 of 12 patients with detectable PSA immediately after radical prostatectomy has had a durable response to adjuvant radiation therapy. In contrast 7 of 13 patients with a delayed increase in PSA had a durable response. The ability of adjuvant radiation therapy to eliminate serum PSA in patients with a delayed increase in PSA after radical prostatectomy is encouraging. However, longer followup, including the use of nonradiated control subjects, is needed to assess the ability of adjuvant radiation therapy to control local disease and prolong patient survival. 
Combined portal vein and liver resection for carcinoma of the biliary tract. Twenty-nine patients with advanced carcinoma of the bile duct or gallbladder underwent combined portal vein and liver resection. Segmental excision of the portal vein was performed in 16 cases and wedge resection of the vessel wall in 13. The operative mortality rate was 17 per cent. The median survival for the 24 patients who left hospital was 19.8 months. Actuarial survival rates at 1, 3 and 5 years for all 29 patients were 48 per cent, 29 per cent, and 6 per cent respectively, whereas the median survival for 46 patients with unresectable carcinoma was 3 months and the 1 and 3-year actuarial survival rates were 13 per cent and zero respectively. This difference in survival times between patients undergoing hepatectomy with portal vein resection and those with unresectable carcinoma were statistically significant (P less than 0.01). Combined portal vein and liver resection is recommended as a reasonable surgical approach in selected patients with advanced carcinoma of the biliary tract. 
Soluble interleukin 2 receptor levels in serum and its relationship to T cell abnormality and clinical manifestations of the disease in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is associated with alterations in immune regulation that results in T cell activation and release of the soluble interleukin 2 receptors (sIL-2R) in serum. SLE, a disease with varied clinical manifestations also has regulatory T cell subset abnormalities in blood. Levels of sIL-2R in serum of patients with active SLE were higher than in those with other common rheumatic diseases. Patients with active SLE and an increased percentage of CD4+ CDw29+ helper inducer (memory) and decreased percentage of CD4+ CD45R+ suppressor inducer (virgin) T cell subsets in blood demonstrated elevated levels of sIL-2R in serum. When compared with clinical manifestations of the disease, the sIL-2R levels in the sera of the patients with active SLE and thrombocytopenia were higher (mean 1710 units/ml) than those in active SLE with nephrotic syndrome (mean 1230 units/ml) or in active SLE with central nervous system disease (mean 1157 units/ml). However, patients with active SLE with humoral immunodeficiency (hypogammaglobulinemia) had highly elevated levels of sIL-2R in serum as compared to other patients with active SLE. The highly elevated levels of sIL-2R in serum may indicate that in vivo T cell activation plays an important role in this disease. 
Predictive value of ventricular arrhythmias for patency of the infarct-related coronary artery after thrombolytic therapy. In animal studies reperfusion of coronary arteries is commonly accompanied by ventricular arrhythmias. It is not certain, however, whether ventricular arrhythmias can be used as a reliable non-invasive marker of reperfusion in humans. Two-channel Holter recordings were obtained from the start of an intravenous infusion of streptokinase until coronary angiography (2.8 (2.7) hours (mean SD)) afterwards) in 57 patients with acute myocardial infarction of less than four hours who were generally not treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. Ventricular arrhythmias occurred in 21 (37%) of the 57 patients: accelerated idioventricular rhythm in 13 patients and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia in 15 patients. Seven patients had both accelerated idioventricular rhythm and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. Coronary angiography showed a patent infarct-related vessel in 12 (92%) of the 13 patients with accelerated idioventricular rhythm (95% confidence interval 66 to 99%), in 22 (50%) of the 44 patients without accelerated idioventricular rhythm (95% CI 34 to 66%), in 11 (73%) of the 15 patients with non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (95% CI 45 to 92%), and in 23 (55%) (95% CI 39 to 71%) of the 42 patients who did not have non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. Seventeen (81%) of the 21 patients with accelerated idioventricular rhythm, or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia, or both, had a patent infarct-related vessel (95% CI 58 to 94%) as did 17 (47%) of the 36 patients with no ventricular arrhythmia (95% CI 29 to 65%). In patients with accelerated idioventricular rhythm after thrombolysis the infarct-related vessel is almost certain to be patent; but the infarct-related coronary artery can still be patent when no arrhythmia is seen. 
Clinical usefulness of amitriptyline in fibromyalgia: the results of 23 N-of-1 randomized controlled trials. Twenty-three double blind, randomized, multiple crossover trials (N-of-1 RCT) of amitriptyline were conducted in patients with fibromyalgia. The benefit of amitriptyline was assessed using a symptom questionnaire and count of tender points. To assess the usefulness of the method, the proportion of trials that provided a definite answer was examined. Completing the trial resulted in reaching a high degree of confidence in the final management decision in 74% of trials. In 35% of trials, results led to discontinuation of the drug which otherwise would have been continued indefinitely. The drug benefit, if present, was evident within first 2 weeks of therapy. We concluded that these results support the feasibility and usefulness of N-of-1 RCT in rheumatology practice. 
Fatal varicella-zoster virus meningoradiculitis without skin involvement. A 77-year-old man with T-cell lymphoma developed an acute fatal meningoradiculitis of cranial nerve roots and cauda equina, pathologically and virologically confirmed to be caused by varicella-zoster virus. This is the first report of fatal varicella-zoster virus-induced neurological disease in the absence of skin lesions. Varicella-zoster virus should be included in the differential diagnosis of acute radiculoneuropathy in the immunocompromised patient, particularly because antiviral treatment for varicella-zoster virus exists. 
Situational and psychophysiological factors in psychologically induced pain. To investigate pain that occurs in the absence of painful stimulation, normal subjects were connected to a sham stimulator and were told that a headache could occur as a result of the electrical current they would receive. Half of the subjects who received this suggestion reported pain. The frequency and intensity of pain reports in a group which was given prior pain experience as a reference point in reporting pain and in a group which was exposed to a manipulation designed to reduce intentional deception were not significantly different from the pain reports of a group not exposed to these manipulations. The frequency of pain reports in subjects not connected to the sham stimulator but still asked to report pain was 25% which was significantly less than the frequency for subjects who were told there would be stimulation to the head. Pain ratings increased as the settings of the sham stimulator were increased. Subjects who reported pain had significantly fewer electrodermal responses to tones signaling them to prepare for a reaction time task. The results suggest that pain can be produced in the absence of peripheral stimulation. The pain does not appear to be due to intentional deception or the lack of a standard for comparison, but is strongly influenced by environmental cues. Psychophysiologically, pain responders were less attentive to signal stimuli. 
Relationship of HBsAg subtypes with HBeAg/anti-HBe status and chronic liver disease. Part I: Analysis of 1744 HBsAg carriers. A total of 1744 HBsAg carriers were investigated to determine whether there are clinical differences among HBsAg subtypes or not. Although adr was more predominant than adw in 1078 asymptomatic carriers as well as in 666 carriers with liver dysfunction, the adr carriers had liver dysfunction more frequently than the adw carriers (p = 0.005). In addition, the adr carriers were more often positive for HBeAg and less often positive for anti-HBe than the adw carriers (p less than 0.001). Multivariate analyses indicated that the HBsAg subtypes were associated with liver dysfunction not directly but through the relationship between the HBsAg subtypes and HBeAg/anti-HBe status. HBeAg/anti-HBe status of each age bracket in the adr carriers and in the adw carriers suggested that adr carriers are seroconverted later than adw carriers. In conclusion, HBsAg subtypes may affect the development of chronic liver disease, through their association with HBeAg/anti-HBe status. 
Recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma after partial hepatectomy: value of treatment with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization. The usefulness of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) of the hepatic artery was retrospectively evaluated in 66 patients who underwent the procedure for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma that recurred after partial hepatectomy. The materials infused were Gelfoam sponge or Gelfoam sponge plus Lipiodol and an anticancer agent. A control group of 15 patients with recurrent tumor received oral anticancer agents alone. The cumulative survival rate for the TACE group was 88% for the first year, 57% for 2 years, 42% for 3 years, and 27% for 5 years, whereas that of the control group was 80% for the first year, 27% for 2 years, and 18% for 3 years. Thus, the prognosis of the TACE group was significantly better (p less than or equal to .01, log-rank test) than that of the control group. The survival rate was inversely correlated with the ratio of the volume of the recurrent tumor to the volume of the whole residual liver. These results suggest that TACE is more effective than oral chemotherapy for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma that recurs after partial hepatectomy. 
Suppression of chronic myelogenous leukemia colony growth by interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist and soluble IL-1 receptors: a novel application for inhibitors of IL-1 activity. In this study, we investigated the role of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) in the malignant evolution of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and the functional activity of IL-1 inhibitors. Bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) low-density cells from 38 CML patients were studied in the colony-forming unit-granulocyte, erythrocyte, monocyte, megakaryocyte colony culture assay. Samples from patients with early stage, interferon-alpha (IFN)-sensitive disease formed hematopoietic colonies in the presence of fetal calf serum (FCS), erythropoietin (Epo), and one of the following: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (10 ng/mL), IL-3 (15 ng/mL), both, or phytohemagglutinin-conditioned medium. The addition of IL-1 beta augmented IFN-sensitive CML colony growth in a dose-dependent manner at concentrations of 10 to 100 U/mL. In sharp contrast, addition of the above growth factors did not augment the colony growth-promoting effect of FCS and Epo in samples from IFN-resistant patients; further, adherent cell fractionation or T-lymphocyte depletion attenuated the "autonomous" colony growth. Lysates of 2.5 x 10(7) low-density cells from each of six IFN-resistant and six IFN-sensitive CML patients and three normal volunteers were tested for intrinsic IL-1 beta content in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and yielded a mean of 610 pg, 54.6 pg, and 49.4 pg of IL-1 beta, respectively (P less than .045). Interestingly, both soluble IL-1 receptors (sIL-1R) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA) at concentrations of 5 to 100 ng/mL (sIL-1R) and 10 to 500 ng/mL (IL-1RA) inhibited CML colony growth in a dose-dependent fashion, with maximal inhibition of 64% and 65%, respectively. A similar effect was noted with the use of anti-IL-1 beta neutralizing antibodies. These data implicate IL-1 beta in CML disease progression and suggest that the inhibitory effects of molecules such as sIL-1R and IL-1RA could conceivably be the basis of a novel therapeutic strategy against this disorder. 
The incontinent myelodysplastic patient. Urinary incontinence is a socially devastating aspect of the lives of many myelodysplastic children. Incontinence results from abnormal bladder storage function, urethral sphincteric incompetence, or both. Unfortunately, the vesicourethral dysfunction in an individual patient cannot be discerned from the level of the vertebral defect or the coexisting neurologic deficits. Therefore, thorough urodynamic assessment is required to identify altered physiology precisely and to guide rational treatment. Our therapeutic armamentarium includes external devices, intermittent self-catheterization, pharmacologic therapy, prosthetics, electrical stimulation, biofeedback, and innovative surgical procedures. Comprehensive evaluation, thoughtful tailoring of therapy to the individual patient, and a commitment by the urologist to indefinite follow-up will enable most patients to attain social continence while preserving renal function. 
Effect of plasma from patients with essential hypertension on vascular resistance in the isolated perfused rat kidney. 1. Isolated perfused rat kidneys were used to study the effects of plasma fractions obtained by gel filtration from essential hypertensive patients (n = 40) and from normotensive subjects (n = 36) on resistance vessels. Perfusion pressure was recorded at a constant flow. 2. Plasma fractions were obtained by gel filtration and contained substances with a molecular mass in the range 1000-1500 Da. The plasma fractions from hypertensive patients used in this study had been shown to increase blood pressure after intravenous injection in rats. 3. In the isolated rat kidneys, the hypertensive fractions increased perfusion pressure by 20 +/- 17 mmHg (mean +/- SD, range 5-58 mmHg, n = 40). The analogous fractions from normotensive subjects did not change perfusion pressure significantly. 4. In Ca2(+)-free medium containing 2 mmol/l ethyleneglycol bis-(aminoethyl ether)tetra-acetate, the change in perfusion pressure induced by active plasma fractions was reduced by 95.2 +/- 6.3%. Addition of nifedipine to the perfusion medium reduced, but did not abolish, the pressure response of the kidneys. 5. In solutions containing phentolamine or saralasin, vasoconstriction was not reduced. 6. Thus in the active fractions from hypertensive plasma, a vasopressor agent with direct action on resistance vessels can be demonstrated. This substance probably acts by increasing Ca2+ influx in vascular smooth muscle cells. 
DNA diagnosis for hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (Dutch type) Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis of the Dutch type (HCHWA-D) is tightly linked to the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein gene on chromosome 21, which codes for the amyloid beta-protein. A point mutation detected at position 1852 of the amyloid precursor protein gene in four HCHWA-D patients was hypothesized to be the basic defect. This study proves that 22 HCHWA-D patients from three pedigrees all carry this point mutation, whereas the mutation is absent in escapees from the HCHWA-D families as well as in randomly selected Dutch individuals. A mutation-specific oligonucleotide is now available for the confirmation of the HCHWA-D diagnosis. Therefore, presymptomatic testing and prenatal evaluation of individuals at risk in the HCHWA-D families is now feasible. 
Abdominal distension in female patients with irritable bowel syndrome: exploration of possible mechanisms. Abdominal distension is a common but little understood symptom of the irritable bowel syndrome. The authenticity of the symptom was confirmed by appreciable increases in girth measurement during the day in 20 patients with the irritable bowel syndrome compared with 20 control subjects. Objective corroboration of this finding was shown in the group with the irritable bowel syndrome by a highly significant increase in lateral abdominal 'profile' on computed tomography. Previously postulated mechanisms for distension--namely, retention of gas, depression of the diaphragm, and excess lumbar lordosis--were excluded by the radiological findings. Voluntary protrusion of the abdomen produced a completely different pattern on computed tomography to that observed in the irritable bowel syndrome. These observations suggest that abdominal distension may be related to changes in motility or tone of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. 
Buspirone: sedative or stimulant effect? OBJECTIVE: The primary objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of initial and continued administration of buspirone on sleep induction and maintenance and sleep stage parameters, to determine the presence or absence of any drug-induced side effects, and to ascertain the presence or absence of sleep disturbances following abrupt withdrawal of the drug. METHOD: Six insomniac subjects who had chronic complaints of difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep and who were in good physical health, were not suffering from any major mental disorders, and had not used any medication for at least the last month participated in a 16-night sleep laboratory protocol. The protocol consisted of 4 placebo-baseline nights, 7 nights on which buspirone, 10 mg at bedtime, was administered, and 5 placebo-withdrawal nights. RESULTS: Wake time after sleep onset increased moderately during the first 3 nights of drug administration (there was a marked and significant increase on the first night) and increased by lesser degrees with continued drug administration. Overall, reports of side effects were infrequent. Following drug termination, there was a delayed and mild increase in sleep difficulty above baseline. CONCLUSIONS: These data not only confirm that buspirone lacks sedative effects but also suggest that the drug may have stimulant properties. Further, these findings suggest that buspirone has limited usefulness in anxious patients with concomitant sleep difficulties. 
Clustering of features of von Hippel-Lindau syndrome: evidence for a complex genetic locus von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (HLS), an autosomal-dominant inherited disease, was studied in 92 affected subjects from 29 kindreds. In an initial survey to identify HLS gene carriers, all patients treated at the University of Freiburg for angiomatosis retinae (22), haemangioblastoma of the central nervous system (CNS) (63), and phaeochromocytoma (54) were examined as potential HLS gene carriers. HLS was diagnosed in 86% of the patients with angiomatosis retinae, 19% of the patients with haemangioblastoma of the CNS, and 19% of the patients with phaeochromocytoma. Based on these and on an additional 49 newly diagnosed cases (24 by clinical examination and 25 by pedigree analysis), the calculated prevalence of the disease in the district of Freiburg, Germany, with a population of 1.909 million is 1/38 951. There was a striking tendency for familial clustering of HLS features in affected kindreds. Both angiomatosis retinae and haemangioblastoma of the CNS occurred in most families, whereas renal lesions and/or pancreatic cysts and phaeochromatocytoma were mutually exclusive. This finding suggests that HLS is caused by different mutations within a complex genetic locus, or additional genetic lesions, which cooperate with the HLS gene on chromosome 3p. The data point to a linear sequence of features as follows: phaeochromocytoma, angiomatosis retinae, haemangioblastoma of the CNS, renal lesions, pancreatic cysts, and epididymal cystadenoma. 
Improvement by acetylcysteine of hemodynamics and oxygen transport in fulminant hepatic failure. BACKGROUND. When administered early after an overdose of acetaminophen, intravenous acetylcysteine prevents hepatic necrosis by replenishing reduced stores of glutathione. How acetylcysteine improves the survival of patients with established liver damage induced by acetaminophen, however, is unknown. This study was undertaken to determine whether the beneficial effect of acetylcysteine under such circumstances could be due to enhancement of oxygen delivery and consumption. METHODS. We studied the effect of acetylcysteine on systemic hemodynamics and oxygen transport in 12 patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure and 8 patients with acute liver failure from other causes. The acetylcysteine was given in a dose of 150 mg per kilogram of body weight in 250 ml of 5 percent dextrose over a period of 15 minutes and then in a dose of 50 mg per kilogram in 500 ml of 5 percent dextrose over a period of 4 hours; measurements were made before treatment began and after 30 minutes of the regimen. RESULTS. In the patients with acetaminophen-induced liver failure, the infusion of acetylcysteine resulted in an increase in mean oxygen delivery from 856 to 975 ml per minute per square meter of body-surface area (P = 0.0036), due to an increase in the cardiac index from 5.6 to 6.7 liters per minute per square meter (P = 0.0021). Mean arterial pressure rose from 88 to 95 mm Hg (P = 0.0054) despite a decrease in systemic vascular resistance from 1296 to 1113 dyn.sec.cm-5 per square meter (P = 0.027). There was an increase in oxygen consumption from 127 to 184 ml per minute per square meter (P = 0.0007) associated with an increase in the oxygen-extraction ratio from 16 to 21 percent (P = 0.022). The effects in the patients with acute liver failure from other causes were similar. CONCLUSIONS. The increase in oxygen delivery and consumption in response to acetylcysteine may account for its beneficial effect on survival in patients with fulminant hepatic failure induced by acetaminophen. 
A case of pheochromocytoma associated with meningioma. We have recently observed a rare case of pheochromocytoma associated with meningioma. To determine the mechanism of such a coexistence in this particular case, we compared the constitutional and pheochromocytoma genotypes of the patient using polymorphic four DNA markers, and we found a loss of heterozygosity at the D1S7 locus. A loss of heterozygosity at this locus has previously been reported by Mathew et al. in pheochromocytoma patients, and our results were in agreement with that study. Therefore the allelic deletion at the D1S7 locus may be an important step in the tumorigenesis of pheochromocytoma in this case. 
Midbrain vs. pontine medial longitudinal fasciculus lesions: the utilization of masseter and blink reflexes. Masseter (MR) and blink reflexes (BL) were investigated in 51 patients with internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) due to multiple sclerosis (28) and lacunar infarction (23). The MR was abnormal in 20 of 23 cases with bilateral INO and in 21 of 28 with unilateral INO. The R1 component of the BL (BL-R1) was abnormal in 7 of 23 patients with bilateral INO and 10 of 28 with unilateral INO. Combined MR and BL-R1 changes occurred in 8 of 28 cases with unilateral INO and 7 of 23 with bilateral INO. The findings provide evidence for a rostral/caudal localization of lesions within the medial longitudinal fasciculus causing INO on the basis of MR and BL-R1 abnormalities. An abnormality limited to MR suggests a midbrain location in 58.8% of patients while abnormal BL-R1 with or without an associated MR change suggests a rostral pontine location in 35.3%. 
False-positive immunostaining of normal epithelia and carcinomas with ascites fluid preparations of antimelanoma monoclonal antibody HMB45. HMB45 is a melanoma-specific monoclonal antibody that has found widespread use in diagnostic pathology. Recent reports, however, have suggested that this antibody may cross-react with a small number of carcinomas and other epithelial cells. The authors tested the hypothesis that these latter reports represent examples of false-positive immunostaining by comparing the immunostaining on breast, salivary gland, and lung tumors with the following: (1) a commercial ascites preparation of this monoclonal antibody; (2) a protein A-purified antibody preparation derived from ascites fluid; and (3) supernatant fluid obtained from the hybridoma cell line. The authors found that all examples of nonmelanoma immunostaining in the carcinomas tested were eliminated with the nonascites fluid preparations, whereas strong immunostaining of melanomas was retained. The authors conclude that contaminated commercial ascites fluid preparations of HMB45 may account for most, if not all, of the reports of nonmelanoma immunostaining with HMB45. 
Increased susceptibility to lung dysfunction in female smokers. The interaction between sex and smoking habits on pulmonary function was examined among 1,149 adults 25 to 59 yr of age in a rural community in Saskatchewan. Pulmonary function tests included FVC, FEV1, maximal midexpiratory flow rate (MMFR), the slope of phase III of the single-breath nitrogen test (delta N2/L), and closing volume as a percent of vital capacity (CV/VC). The data show that after fixing the effects of age, height, and weight by analysis of covariance, the adjusted means of delta N2/L in nonsmokers, ex-smokers, and current smokers were 0.92, 1.10, and 1.60% in women and 0.97, 1.05, and 1.23% in men, respectively. The difference in the adjusted means for delta N2/L between smokers and nonsmokers was larger in women than in men, 0.67% versus 0.26%, respectively. Multiple multivariate analyses show that the regression slopes for the residuals of FEV1, MMFR, and delta N2/L versus pack-years were significantly different between men and women. The regressions of FEV1 and MMFR decreased and the regression of delta N2/L increased with increasing pack-years more rapidly in women than in men. The combined effect of sex and pack-years on pulmonary function was not significant for ex-smokers. These data suggest that cigarette smoking may be more detrimental in its effects on lung function in women than in men. 
Devine exclusion for unresectable carcinoma of the stomach. Between July 1986 and July 1988, Devine exclusion was performed in 20 patients with unresectable carcinoma of the gastric antrum. All 20 patients presented with repeated vomiting. On endoscopy, 16 patients had complete gastric outlet obstruction while the remainder manifested significant gastric outlet stenosis. There was no hospital mortality. All except two patients could take an oral diet after surgery until their demise. Devine exclusion is safe and effective in relieving gastric outlet obstruction and is not associated with prolonged delay in return of gastric emptying. 
Descending thoracic aortofemoral bypass as an alternative for aortoiliac revascularization. We performed descending thoracic aorta to femoral bypass in six selected patients over the past four years. An alternative inflow source was selected because the standard transabdominal approach was contraindicated or considered hazardous. The inflow consisted of a single Dacron tube from the descending thoracic aorta to the left groin, and a femorofemoral bypass to the right groin. There was no operative mortality or major morbidity related to the surgical procedure. After an average follow-up of 17.1 months (range 6 to 23 months), all thoracofemoral grafts remained patent. One patient had repeated occlusions of the femorofemoral graft related to right lower extremity outflow disease, while the remaining five crossover grafts are patent. One patient died 22 months postoperatively from a myocardial infarct, with a patent bypass. Although this series represents a small group of patients, we feel that descending thoracic aortofemoral bypass offers excellent inflow and reliable patency, and is a good alternative when reoperation on the abdominal aorta is undesirable. This procedure may also be considered for conversion of an axillofemoral bypass that has failed repeatedly. 
Dopamine agonists prevent duodenal ulcer relapse. A comparative study with famotidine and cimetidine. The present study investigated both the healing rate (after four weeks) and the relapse rate (during six months) following treatment with the dopamine-like drugs bromocriptine (2.5 mg twice daily), amantadine (100 mg nocte), or with the H2 blockers cimetidine (800 mg nocte), and famotidine (40 mg nocte) in 124 patients with endoscopically proven duodenal ulcer (DU). The ulcer was completely healed in 27 (amantadine), 26 (bromocriptine), 23 (cimetidine), and in 24 (famotidine) patients. Relapse was noted in 34.7% (cimetidine) and 25% (famotidine) versus 11.7% (amantadine) and 7.7% (bromocriptine) DU patients. No significant difference was found in initial healing rates. However, the relapse rate in the cimetidine-treated group was significantly higher than in all the other test groups. Additional comparisons between all the treatment categories showed a significantly lower relapse rate with the dopamine-like agents. These important new results indicate that dopamine-like compounds are equally effective as H2 blockers in inducing DU healing and may offer a promising advantage over H2 blockers concerning their efficacy in preventing ulcer relapse in DU patients. 
Siriraj stroke score and validation study to distinguish supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage from infarction. OBJECTIVES--To develop a simple, reliable, and safe diagnostic tool for acute stroke syndromes in a setting where computerised brain scanning was not readily available and to validate its accuracy with regard to pathological types of stroke. DESIGN--13 clinical variables that potentially might differentiate supratentorial cerebral haemorrhage from infarction were recorded and tested by multivariate analysis in a prospective study of 174 patients with acute stroke. In developing the Siriraj stroke score stepwise discriminant analysis of the variables was followed by a linear discriminant equation to differentiate between supratentorial haemorrhage and infarction. The score obtained was validated against scores in 206 other patients with stroke, computerised brain scans being used for definitive diagnosis. SETTING--Siriraj Hospital Medical School, Mahidol University, Bangkok. SUBJECTS--Prospective study: 174 consecutive patients with acute supratentorial stroke syndrome (not subarachnoid haemorrhage) admitted to Siriraj Hospital during 1984-5; validation study: 206 patients admitted to Siriraj Hospital or another hospital for supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage or infarction. RESULTS--The Siriraj stroke score was developed and calculated as (2.5 x level of consciousness) + (2 x vomiting) + (2 x headache) + (0.1 x diastolic blood pressure) - (3 x atheroma markers) - 12. A score above 1 indicates supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage, while a score below -1 indicates infarction. The score between 1 and -1 represents an equivocal result needing a computerised brain scan or probability curve to verify the diagnosis. In the validation study of the Siriraj stroke score the diagnostic sensitivities of the score for cerebral haemorrhage and cerebral infarction were 89.3% and 93.2% respectively, with an overall predictive accuracy of 90.3%. CONCLUSION--The Siriraj stroke score is widely accepted and applied in hospitals throughout Thailand as a simple and reliable bedside method for diagnosing acute stroke. 
Effect of heroin in decomposing tissues on the development rate of Boettcherisca peregrina (Diptera, Sarcophagidae) and implications of this effect on estimation of postmortem intervals using arthropod development patterns. Larvae of the flesh fly Boettcherisca peregrina (Robineau-Desvoidy) were reared on the tissues of rabbits to study the effects of heroin on the development rates of this species. The rabbits were given 6, 12, 18, and 24 mg of heroin by cardiac puncture. From Hours 18 to 96, larvae feeding on tissues containing heroin (as morphine) developed more rapidly than those feeding on tissues from the control. The time required for pupation was significantly greater for colonies fed on tissues from heroin-dosed rabbits than for the control colony. The differences observed in the rates of development were sufficient to alter postmortem interval estimates based on larval development by up to 29 h and estimates based on pupal development by 18 to 38 h. 
Recent trends in acute care hospital utilization in Ontario for diseases of the circulatory system. OBJECTIVE: To describe trends in the use of acute care hospital services for diseases of the circulatory system in Ontario. DESIGN: Observational study. DATA EXTRACTION: Information on diagnoses, procedures and demographic characteristics was obtained from routinely collected computerized abstracts of separations from all acute care hospitals in Ontario during 1979-80, 1983-84 and 1988-89. The data were combined with population estimates to calculate overall separation rates and rates specific for age, diagnosis and procedure. Resource intensity weights were used to estimate changes in resource use. MAIN RESULTS: The overall separation rate increased by 3% and the resource-intensity-weighted separation rate by 12% from 1979-80 to 1988-89. The overall medical separation rate increased by 2%, whereas the surgical rate increased by 12%. The surgical separation rate increased among patients 55 to 79 years of age but decreased in all the other adult age groups. The separation rates for coronary artery bypass surgery and cardiac valve surgery increased rapidly among patients 65 years of age or older. The medical separation rate decreased for patients of all ages except those less than 5 years and those 80 years or more. The medical separation rates decreased by less than 1% for diagnoses related to ischemic heart disease (IHD) and increased dramatically for coronary artery revascularization. CONCLUSIONS: The increasing elderly population has not resulted in large increases in acute care hospital utilization for diseases of the circulatory system. The impact of an aging population has been balanced by decreased utilization rates in the younger groups. The intensity of hospital care has risen primarily because of increases in surgical rates, especially in the elderly population. The large decrease in the rate of death from IHD over the past two decades has not been associated with similar decreases in acute care hospital utilization for this disorder. 
Somatostatin receptors in differentiated ovarian tumors. The presence of somatostatin receptors was investigated in 57 primary human ovarian tumors using in vitro receptor autoradiography with three different somatostatin radioligands, 125I-[Tyr11]-somatostatin-14, 125I-[Leu8, D-Trp22, Tyr25]-somatostatin-28, or 125I-[Tyr3]-SMS 201-995. Three cases, all belonging to epithelial tumors, were receptor positive; specifically 1 of 42 adenocarcinomas, 1 of 3 borderline malignancies, and 1 of 2 cystadenomas. Four other epithelial tumors (3 fibroadenomas, 1 Brenner tumor), 4 sex cord-stromal tumors (2 fibrothecomas, 2 granulosa cell tumors), and 2 germ cell tumors (1 dysgerminoma, 1 teratoma) were receptor negative. In the positive cases, the somatostatin receptors were localized on epithelial cells exclusively, were of high affinity (KD = 4.6 nmol/l [nanomolar]), and specific for somatostatin analogs. These receptors bound somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 radioligands with a higher affinity than the octapeptide [Tyr3]-SMS 201-995. Healthy ovarian tissue had no somatostatin receptors. A subpopulation of relatively well-differentiated ovarian tumors, therefore, was identified pathobiochemically on the basis of its somatostatin receptor content. This small group of somatostatin receptor-positive tumors may be a target for in vivo diagnostic imaging with somatostatin ligands. 
Natural history and effectiveness of aspirin in asymptomatic patient with cervical bruits. The Asymptomatic Cervical Bruit Study Group. We report a multicenter study in progress involving a prospective follow-up of asymptomatic patients with cervical bruits. The project consists of two components. All patients meeting clinical criteria for eligibility undergo duplex ultrasonography at the time of entry into the study. Those with a carotid stenosis of 50% or greater are enrolled in a randomized placebo-controlled trial of aspirin. All other patients are followed up in a natural history study, also involving biannual clinical and duplex ultrasonographic examinations. Both clinical and anatomic outcomes are assessed. The project consists of a 3-year accrual phase and a 3-year follow-up phase with completion planned for May 1994. Total anticipated enrollment is 588 patients. 
Pediatric heart transplantation at Stanford: results of a 15-year experience. The long-term results of pediatric heart transplantation were evaluated in 53 patients, aged 0.25 to 18.94 years, who received transplants at Stanford University Medical Center between 1974 and 1989. Indications for transplantation were idiopathic cardiomyopathy (68%), congenital heart disease (21%), endocardial fibroelastosis (8%), and doxorubicin cardiomyopathy (3%). Immunosuppression was achieved with combinations of cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine. Thirty-seven of 42 recipients leaving the hospital after transplantation were alive and in New York Heart Association class I at study's end. Cumulative survival was 79% at 1 year, 76% at 3 years, and 69% at 5 years. Fourteen recipients have survived more than 5 years (5.1 to 12.4 years). Hospital readmission for illness has been infrequent, decreasing from 6.8 days to 0.9 days per year over 5 years. Eleven patients have required no rehospitalization. Posttransplant deaths were due to infection (19%), rejection (4%), pulmonary hypertension (4%), coronary artery disease (2%), and lymphoproliferative disease (2%). Retransplantation was required for intractable rejection in 4 patients and advanced coronary artery disease in 2. Hypertension and elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels were common in individuals receiving cyclosporine. Growth was often impaired in prepubertal children receiving daily prednisone. Based on this 15-year experience, it is concluded that heart transplantation represents a reasonable alternative for selected young patients with end-stage cardiac disease. 
Avoiding reoperation for indeterminate thyroid nodules identified as malignant after surgery. Thyroid nodules that are indeterminate as carcinoma by needle biopsy before surgery and by study of frozen sections at the time of surgery are occasionally identified to be malignant in later studies. If only a lobectomy has been performed, the advisability of reoperation to remove the remaining thyroid tissue to facilitate radioactive iodine therapy may cause concern. To obviate this difficulty as well as to reduce the occurrence of nodules later in a preserved contralateral thyroid lobe and to provide additional thyroid tissue for study, contralateral subtotal or near total lobectomy has been performed for indeterminate thyroid nodules. The small remnant of remaining thyroid tissue can later be ablated by radioactive iodine if desired. Of 37 patients with indeterminate thyroid nodules, none required reoperation, although the diagnosis of carcinoma was established after surgery for eight patients, three of whom were treated with radioactive iodine. 
Human hepatocyte growth factor in blood of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. Basic aspects. Human hepatocyte growth factor (hHGF) was purified from the plasma of six patients with fulminant hepatic failure due to hepatitis B in two and non-A, non-B hepatitis in four. The purified hHGF from each patient contained two major protein bands having molecular weights of 79,000 and 86,000 and several minor bands having molecular weights between 76,000 and 92,000 on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis performed under nonreduced conditions. After reduction with 2-mercaptoethanol, three major bands having molecular weights of 58,000, 34,500, and 31,500 were evident. In addition, a band having a molecular weight of 21,000 was detected. hHGF activity was destroyed by its reduction. The hHGF purified from patients demonstrated a dose response in terms of an increase in DNA synthesis using cultured hepatocytes. The hHGF concentration in the plasma of the patients with grade III-IV hepatic coma was calculated to be in the range of 1.8-3.0 nM. Finally the heavy chain of hHGF was not recognized by an anti-human albumin antibody, indicating that hHGF is not biliprotein, an albumin-bilirubin complex, that has been reported to be a putative liver growth factor. 
Population-based study of surgery in juvenile onset Crohn's disease. A geographically based cohort of 68 children with Crohn's disease was derived by sampling from Scottish Hospital In-patient Statistics. Surgical histories were examined and analysed by actuarial methods, and the nature of major operations performed was compared with operations for Crohn's disease in the Lothians' Surgical Audit. Fifty-four of the 68 patients were treated surgically, with a total of 135 operations (71 major, 64 minor). Fifty per cent of the cohort had a major operation within 5 years of onset of symptoms; median time to a second operation was 4 years. The types of major operation performed in juvenile onset patients differed significantly from those recorded in the Lothians' audit, with a high rate of exploratory laparotomy in younger patients (12 cases). With a mean follow-up of 7 years, 12 patients (18 per cent) have a permanent stoma. There were five deaths, three postoperative. This study highlights the frequency of surgical intervention in young people with Crohn's disease. 
Endothelial modulation of vascular tone: relevance to coronary angioplasty and restenosis. The vascular endothelium importantly modulates many biochemical and physiologic properties of the vascular wall, including the release of potent vasoactive factors, maintenance of an anticoagulant state and modulation of vascular growth by the release of both proliferative and antiproliferative substances. Prominent among these endothelial roles is the production of a potent vasodilator or family of vasodilators termed the endothelium-derived relaxing factor, one of which has been identified to be nitric oxide or a closely related compound. Several diseases that commonly occur in patients undergoing coronary angioplasty alter many facets of endothelial function and may predispose to adverse clinical sequelae of angioplasty, including immediate thrombosis, restenosis and vascular spasm. Several features of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor, how it is altered by pathologic processes and how these considerations relate to the immediate and late postangioplasty periods are discussed. 
Evaluation of the traveler. An introduction to emporiatrics for the emergency physician. Travel medicine, or emporiatrics, presents an additional challenge to the practicing emergency physician. In this time of increased travel for business and pleasure, travel history should become a routine part of patient evaluation. While the emergency physician may not need to become facile with specific details concerning immunizations and prophylaxis, he or she should have a good working knowledge of these in order to provide the potential traveler with some basic information and to be able to adequately evaluate the returned traveler who becomes ill and seeks care. Air travel allows many travelers to arrive back in the United States before manifesting symptoms and signs of illness acquired abroad. Many of these illnesses are not usually found in the United States. Late diagnosis of certain illnesses, such as falciparum malaria, may increase the morbidity and mortality. As such, travel history should become a routine part of patient evaluation, and the physician should have a good working knowledge of illnesses that may be acquired abroad. 
Maximal sniff mouth pressure compared with maximal inspiratory pressure in acute respiratory failure. Inspiratory muscle strength most often is better reflected by sniff Pes than PImax against occlusion. Furthermore, sniff Pes can be estimated noninvasively by the measurement of sniff Pmo in normal subjects and in patients with respiratory muscle weakness. The aim of this study was to compare sniff Pmo and P.PImax to assess inspiratory muscle strength in patients with acute respiratory failure. The highest pressure was produced by P.PImax in 61 percent of measurements, and by sniff Pmo in 39 percent. Above 35 cm H2O P.PImax yielded the highest pressure in 55 percent of cases and the ratio sniff Pmo/P.PImax was 1.20 +/- 0.54. Below 35 cm H2O, P.PImax yielded the highest pressure in 75 percent of cases and the ratio sniff Pmo/P.PImax was 0.76 +/- 0.35 (p less than 0.02). Thus, measurements of sniff Pmo and P.PImax complement one another for assessing inspiratory muscle strength. However, sniff Pmo underestimates inspiratory muscle strength in patients with severe inspiratory muscle weakness. 
Clinical usefulness of serum squamous cell carcinoma antigen for early detection of squamous cell carcinoma arising in mature cystic teratoma of the ovary. Squamous cell carcinoma arising in mature cystic teratoma of the ovary is rarely diagnosed preoperatively. We measured the pre-treatment serum levels of squamous cell carcinoma antigen in three stage I patients in order to evaluate its usefulness as a tumor marker for early detection of the disease. The serum levels were elevated in each case, to 26.9, 5.1, and 3.2 ng/mL, respectively, and rapidly dropped to within the normal range after treatment. All patients are recovered and show no evidence of recurrence, and the levels of serum squamous cell carcinoma antigen have remained within normal limits. These results suggest that measurement of the serum squamous cell carcinoma antigen level may be useful in diagnosing an early-stage primary squamous cell carcinoma arising in a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary. An elevated preoperative serum level of squamous cell carcinoma antigen may indicate the need for a rapid pathologic examination of the tumor to look for malignant elements and may influence the surgical regimen. 
Macroreentry in the infarcted human heart: the mechanism of ventricular tachycardias with a "focal" activation pattern. Endocardial mapping of electrical activity was carried out in 150 patients to guide antiarrhythmic surgery for drug-resistant ventricular tachycardia in the chronic phase of myocardial infarction. In 20 of these patients, the activation pattern of 27 distinct tachycardias was focal and diastolic potentials were recorded at three or more sites. In 26 tachycardias, the sequence of diastolic potentials progressed from the area of latest activation of one cycle toward the "origin" of the next cycle. In two patients, the heart was stimulated during tachycardia, resulting in entrainment of the tachycardia in both. Late potentials were recorded during entrainment at sites where diastolic potentials occurred during tachycardia. In 11 of the 20 patients, endocardial mapping was performed during sinus rhythm. In four of these, late potentials were observed during sinus rhythm at sites where diastolic potentials were recorded during tachycardia. In two patients without late potentials during sinus rhythm, late potentials were observed during stimulation and induced ectopic beats. The results support the concept that the mechanism of several of these tachycardias is based on reentry in a macrocircuit comprising a tract of surviving tissue traversing the infarct and the remaining healthy tissue. They also indicate that the absence of late potentials during sinus rhythm does not guarantee the absence of arrhythmogenic pathways. 
Prehospital diagnosis and treatment of acute myocardial infarction: a north-south perspective. The Cincinnati Heart Project and the Nashville Prehospital TPA Trial. Intravenous thrombolytic therapy improves left ventricular function and reduces mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). In European and Middle Eastern trials, prehospital delivery of thrombolytic agents by physician-directed mobile intensive care units has been successful. This report describes two independently conceived and performed trials that used cellular telephone transmission of 12-lead ECGs to deliver recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-tPA) in the field to patients with AMI. In the Nashville Prehospital TPA Trial, 85 patients with chest pain were evaluated in the field for possible administration of r-tPA over a 6-month period. Three of 85 patients (3.5%) were found to be actual candidates for r-tPA treatment in the field. In phase II (dry-run phase) of the Cincinnati Heart Project, 374 patients were evaluated in the field with 14 documented cases of AMI (3.7%) before r-tPA was placed in ambulances for administration by paramedics. In phase III (active with r-TPA in ambulances), over a 1-year period 103 patients were evaluated with six (5.8%) documented cases of AMI. Three of five r-tPA field treatment decisions by emergency physicians using transmitted 12-lead ECGs were accurate (60%). When patients in phases II and III were combined, only 20 of 477 total patients (4.2%) were documented to have AMI. A decline in paramedic skills was noted because of the infrequent administration of the thrombolytic agent. Combining the Nashville and Cincinnati experiences, only 27 of 562 total patients with chest pain (4.8%) were candidates for prehospital thrombolysis. We conclude that few patients evaluated in the prehospital setting are actual candidates for thrombolytic therapy. Substantial allocation of financial and human resources for prehospital delivery of intravenous thrombolytic therapy does not appear warranted. 
Role of estrogens and epidermal growth factor in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Estrogen (E) and epidermal growth factors (EGF) receptors were assayed in the liver of nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Total E and nuclear E receptors were decreased significantly in neoplastic tissue as compared to the levels found in surrounding nonneoplastic tissue. The EGF receptor was decreased also in neoplastic tissue. On the basis of binding data, a decrease in the number but not in affinity of both the E and EGF receptors was found. 
Selective amplification of periportal transitional cells precedes formation of hepatocellular carcinoma in SV40 large tag transgenic mice. In a major urinary protein (MUP)-promoter/simian virus 40 (SV40)Tag transgenic mouse line (MT-D2) the liver-directed, androgen-regulated transgene expression leads to synchronized pathology resulting in a stepwise progression to multiple hepatocellular carcinomas. SV40Tag-activated replication gives rise to two different preneoplastic alterations in hepatocytes, which are characterized in detail: 1) dysplasia and finally cell death in the original hepatocyte population and 2) amplification of periportal transitional hepatocytes leading to multifocal hyperplasia and hepatocellular carcinoma. Multifocal hyperplasia, most probably the equivalent of SV40Tag-immortalization, grows confluent and leads to hepatomegaly. SV40Tag-independent, secondary events are necessary for the tumor development from confluent hyperplasia. This allows further investigation of the steps involved in malignant transformation and progression during hepatocarcinogenesis in vivo. 
Familial breast-ovarian cancer locus on chromosome 17q12-q23. Familial breast cancer has been linked to the D17S74 locus on chromosome 17q. To confirm this finding and to investigate whether ovarian cancer is also linked to this locus, five large families with a hereditary predisposition to cancer of the breast and ovary were investigated. Three families were positive for linkage. For the largest family the lod score was 2.72. These findings suggest that the chromosomal region 17q12-q23, previously shown to contain a gene for early-onset breast cancer, is also associated with a proportion of hereditary ovarian cancers. 
Pentoxifylline inhibits interleukin-2-induced leukocyte-endothelial adherence and reduces systemic toxicity. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) mediates the regression of metastatic cancer, but clinical application has been limited by the induction of dose-dependent toxicities in normal tissues. The most clinically significant toxicities occur secondary to a vascular leak syndrome and include acute respiratory failure and hemodynamic instability. Because previous studies suggested a role for pentoxifylline in attenuating the toxic effects of IL-2, we hypothesized that pentoxifylline would inhibit alterations in the microvasculature induced by IL-2 and would ultimately reduce IL-2-induced toxicity. To determine the validity of this hypothesis, we prepared four groups of rats for in vivo microvascular observation. In the first group, a bolus intravenous injection of IL-2 (1 x 10(6) units/kg) acutely induced hypotension, tachypnea, hypoxia, increased lung water, decreased microvascular blood flow, and increased leukocyte-endothelial adherence. No significant changes occurred in animals treated by pentoxifylline alone or the control IL-2 vehicle-alone group. However, pentoxifylline inhibited many of the IL-2-induced systemic and microvascular effects, such as hypotension, tachypnea, increased lung water, hypoxia, and increased leukocyte-endothelial adherence, but not tachycardia or increased microvascular protein leakage. These data support our hypothesis that systemic toxicities induced by IL-2 are associated with alterations in the microcirculation, which may be ameliorated by pentoxifylline. 
Dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy as a preoperative screening test. A reexamination of its predictive potential. Study of Perioperative Ischemia Research Group BACKGROUND. We examined the value of dipyridamole thallium-201 (201Tl) scintigraphy as a preoperative screening test for perioperative myocardial ischemia and infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. We prospectively studied 60 patients undergoing elective vascular surgery. We performed 201Tl scintigraphy preoperatively and blinded all treating physicians to the results. Historical, clinical, laboratory, and physiological data were gathered throughout hospitalization. Myocardial ischemia was assessed during the intraoperative period using continuous 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and during the postoperative period using continuous two-lead ambulatory ECG. Adverse cardiac outcomes (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, severe ischemia, or congestive heart failure) were assessed daily throughout hospitalization. Twenty-two patients (37%) had defects that improved or reversed on delayed scintigrams (redistribution defects), 18 (30%) had persistent defects, and 20 (33%) had no defects on 201Tl scintigraphy. There was no association between redistribution defects and adverse cardiac outcomes: 54% (seven of 13) of adverse outcomes occurred in patients without redistribution defects, and the risk of an adverse outcome was not significantly increased in patients with redistribution defects (relative risk 1.5, 95% confidence interval 0.6-3.9, p = 0.43). Consistent with these findings, there was also no association between redistribution defects and perioperative ischemia: 54% (19 of all 35) of perioperative ECG and TEE ischemic episodes and 58% (14 of 24) of severe ischemic episodes occurred in patients without redistribution defects. The sensitivity of 201Tl scintigraphy for perioperative ischemia and adverse outcomes ranged from 40% to 54%, specificity from 65% to 71%, positive predictive value from 27% to 47% and negative predictive value from 61% to 82%. CONCLUSIONS. These results differ from those of previous studies and suggest that the routine use of 201Tl scintigraphy for preoperative screening of patients undergoing vascular surgery may not be warranted. 
Genetic and environmental explanations for the distribution of sodium-lithium countertransport in pedigrees from Rochester, MN. An elevated level of erythrocyte sodium-lithium (Na-Li) countertransport has been suggested as a predictor of predisposition to essential hypertension. In order to evaluate whether a single genetic or environmental factor with large effects explains the mixture of distributions in Na-Li countertransport in the general population, complex segregation analyses were conducted by using 1,273 individuals more than age 20 years from 276 pedigrees selected without respect to disease risk factors or health status. Either a single genetic locus or a single environmental factor with large gender-specific effects explained the mixture of distributions for Na-Li countertransport in this sample equally well. In the subsample of pedigrees supporting a single-locus etiology, the single genetic locus explained 29.0% of the variability in adjusted Na-Li countertransport in males and 16.6% of that in females. In a subsample of pedigrees supporting an environmental factor etiology, the environmental factor explained 35.2% of the adjusted Na-Li countertransport in males and 20.5% of that in females. These results suggest that there are at least two different explanations for the mixture of distributions in Na-Li countertransport in the general population. Attempts to relate genetic variation in Na-Li countertransport to risk of essential hypertension must consider that the factor with large phenotypic effects on this trait is gender specific and may not be a single major locus in all pedigrees. 
Characterization of the decay-accelerating factor gene promoter region. Decay-accelerating factor (DAF) expression modulates susceptibility of cells to autologous complement attack. To characterize the regulatory region controlling DAF gene transcription, genomic DNA extending from 815 base pairs (bp) upstream to approximately 4 kilobases downstream of DAF's AUG codon (designated +1) was cloned and sequenced. The 5' flanking sequence showed 59-76% G + C content (-355 to +1), at least one GC box(es) (-135 to -131), and variable length sequences (from -629 to -285) conforming to the motifs TCCTCC and TCn. Nuclease S1 digestions and primer extensions localized a major transcriptional start site to -82/-81, 38 bp downstream of a possible TATA variant, (A)TTTAA. In COS cell transfections, the sequence encompassing -815 to -67 functioned 2.5% as efficiently as the Rous sarcoma virus 3' long terminal repeat, but following deletion upstream of -355 its activity increased approximately 4-fold. Two octanucleotides exhibiting partial homology to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and cAMP responsive elements (PREs and CREs, respectively) were detected, and the respective modulators enhanced transcriptional efficiency 2- and approximately 10-fold, respectively. Thus, the DAF gene promoter (i) exhibits sequences resembling both conventional and unconventional transcriptional control elements, (ii) possesses a region with negative regulatory activity, and (iii) responds to PMA and cAMP induction presumably via PRE- and CRE-like enhancer elements. 
Simple noninvasive method to test efficacy of drugs in the eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection: the example of combined bismuth subsalicylate and nitrofurantoin. Eradication of Helicobacter pylori infections has proved to be difficult. There is a need both for improved therapies and for ways to rapidly identify therapies that show sufficient promise to be worth pursuing. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the value of a therapeutic regimen of a bismuth salt plus nitrofurantoin for eradication of infection by H. pylori and to determine the validity/utility of the urea breath test in monitoring the progress of a clinical trial. We used an 80% eradication rule to define a promising therapeutic regimen, i.e., a regimen that eradicated the infection (no evidence of infection by H. pylori 4 wk after termination of therapy) in at least 80% of the individuals treated. Eighteen men (median age 38) with documented infection by H. pylori completed the study. At the end-of-study evaluation, H. pylori infection was eradicated (negative urea breath test, culture, and histology) in only one of 18 (5.5%) subjects; 15 were positive by the urea breath test, 16 by culture, 15 by Warthin-Starry stain, and 16 by the presence of acute-on-chronic inflammation. Using the 80% eradication rule, any one of these tests alone would have identified that the combination of antimicrobials tested was not effective in the eradication of the infection. We conclude that the urea breath test is a simple, noninvasive, cost-effective method to separate promising from unpromising candidate therapies and for the evaluation of new therapeutic concepts. 
Excimer laser-facilitated balloon angioplasty of a nondilatable lesion. Preliminary clinical experience with excimer laser coronary angioplasty shows that it is a safe and effective means of achieving nonsurgical coronary revascularization in selected patients but specific indications for its use are as yet undefined. In the present report a specific indication is proposed for the use of the excimer laser: to facilitate balloon inflation in a rigid stenosis that fails to dilate despite high balloon inflation pressures. 
Confirming the theoretical structure of the McGill Pain Questionnaire in acute clinical pain. Based upon a tripartite theoretical model of pain, the Pain Rating Index (PRI) of the McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) continues to be one of the most frequently used instruments to measure clinical pain. Although a number of exploratory factor analytic studies have failed to consistently support the theoretical structure of the instrument, one previous confirmatory factor analytic study of chronic pain did statistically support the a priori model. Because it has been suggested that acute pain may not involve the same dimensions as chronic pain, this study provided a direct test of the theoretical structure of the MPQ through multi-sample confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) using data provided by women experiencing pain during labor (n = 185) and women experiencing acute postoperative pain (n = 192). Results of the LISREL CFA analysis indicated that the a priori, 3-factor, oblique model originally proposed by Melzack provided the most parsimonious representation of the data across the 2 samples of acute pain. 
Prophylactic sclerotherapy in high-risk cirrhotics selected by endoscopic criteria. A multicenter randomized controlled trial. Controlled trials of sclerotherapy for the prevention of the first variceal hemorrhage in cirrhotics have given conflicting results. In the present study, 106 cirrhotics were randomized to sclerotherapy (55 patients) or control group (51 patients). Admission criteria were no history of previous variceal bleeding and the presence of high-risk varices, i.e., a variceal score less than or equal to 0 according to Beppu et al. Sclerotherapy sessions were performed at time zero, 7 days, 30 days, and then monthly until eradication. Follow-up endoscopies were performed at 6-month intervals thereafter. Control patients underwent repeat endoscopy at 6-month intervals. Bleeding episodes were treated by sclerotherapy in both groups, whenever possible. Mean follow-up was 24 months. Analysis of the results was performed by the intention-to-treat method. Variceal bleeding occurred in 19 sclerotherapy patients (34.5%) and in 17 controls (35.4%, P = NS). Overall mortality was 34.5% in sclerotherapy patients and 50% in controls (P = NS). Seven of the 19 sclerotherapy patients (36.8%) and 11 of the 17 controls (64.7%) who bled died of hemorrhage (P less than 0.05, log-linear model). It is concluded that prophylactic sclerotherapy does not reduce the incidence of first variceal bleeding in cirrhotics. However, there seems to be a trend toward a lower bleeding-related mortality in sclerotherapy patients than in controls. 
Electrophysiologic effects of isoproterenol in patients with atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia treated with flecainide. The electrophysiologic effects of isoproterenol in patients treated with flecainide for atrioventricular (AV) reentrant tachycardia were studied to evaluate the mechanism of tachycardia inducibility after isoproterenol and the value of isoproterenol challenge as a predictor of spontaneous arrhythmia recurrence. Seventeen patients underwent electrophysiologic study before and after oral flecainide administration and after the addition of isoproterenol to flecainide. No patient had inducible sustained supraventricular tachycardia after flecainide alone. Two patients had inducible sustained and six had inducible nonsustained tachycardia after isoproterenol was added to flecainide. The patients were then followed up on the same flecainide dose they received at the time of the electrophysiologic study. Findings: 1) Flecainide treatment prolonged HV and VA intervals, and the addition of isoproterenol did not affect these variables. 2) Isoproterenol shortened anterograde and retrograde block cycle length and the refractory period of the accessory pathway and the AV node. It also decreased the tachycardia cycle length, an effect that was due solely to shortening of AV node conduction time. 3) Flecainide treatment prevented tachycardia induction by affecting retrograde conduction over the accessory pathway. Isoproterenol allowed for tachycardia induction and for more sustained episodes of tachycardia by reversing the effect of flecainide on retrograde accessory pathway conduction. 4) Tachycardia recurred during follow-up in all three patients in whom tachycardia of greater than or equal to 10 s duration was induced after isoproterenol but in no patient who had no or shorter episodes of induced tachycardia (and who did not have a change in medical regimen). Conclusions: 1) Isoproterenol reverses flecainide-induced prolongation of block cycle length and refractory periods of the accessory pathway and AV node. 2) Isoproterenol reverses flecainide-induced prevention of tachycardia induction through reversal of the effects of flecainide on the retrograde accessory pathway. 3) The addition of isoproterenol during flecainide restudy is valuable in predicting long-term drug efficacy. 
Screening for colon malignancy with colonoscopy. Screening of asymptomatic individuals for colon malignancy has been advocated for the past 20 yr in the hopes of reducing colon cancer mortality. Although sigmoidoscopy is an important element of current screening recommendations, the sensitivity of this test in asymptomatic subjects has never been studied. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence and location of polyps and cancers in an asymptomatic population by performing full colonoscopy. We wished to assess the sensitivity of screening flexible sigmoidoscopy to 60 cm by determining how many patients with adenomas or cancer had "index" adenomatous polyps in the distal 60 cm. One hundred five healthy male outpatients, over 50 yr old, with negative examinations for occult blood in stools and no prior history of colon pathology, had full colonoscopy. Careful examination of the distal 60 cm was performed, followed by a full colon examination to the cecum. Forty-three patients (41%) had adenomatous polyps, and only 19 of these patients had an index adenomatous polyp in the distal 60 cm. Therefore, the sensitivity of sigmoidoscopy was 44%. The prevalence of adenomas increased with age. Patients were assigned to one of three groups based on the findings in the distal 60 cm. Group 1 (n = 65) had no polyps in the distal 60 cm, but 18 of these patients (28%) had adenomatous polyps in the proximal colon. Among 21 patients with only hyperplastic polyps in the distal 60 cm (group 2), six patients (29%) had proximal adenomas. In group 3, eight of 19 patients (42%) with adenomas in the distal 60 cm also had proximal adenomatous polyps. We conclude that adenomatous polyps are common in asymptomatic men who have negative tests for fecal occult blood. Sigmoidoscopy to 60 cm had a sensitivity of only 44% in this patient population, suggesting that this is an insensitive test for the detection of patients with adenomatous polyps. 
Natural anticoagulants in systemic lupus erythematosus. Deficiency of protein S bound to C4bp associates with recent history of venous thromboses, antiphospholipid antibodies, and the antiphospholipid syndrome. The association of thrombosis with antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) could be due to their interference with natural phospholipid dependent anticoagulant mechanisms. We studied antigenic protein C (APC), functional protein C (FPC), free protein S (FPS), protein S bound to C4 binding protein (C4bp-S), antithrombin III (ATIII), as well as IgG and IgM anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) in 38 patients with SLE with a history of thromboses and 70 patients with SLE without such history. We found a high frequency of deficiencies of natural anticoagulants in both groups of patients with SLE but, because of patient selection, we could not determine the actual prevalence of these defects. Patients having had a venous thrombosis in the previous year had low C4bp-S more frequently than patients with older or no thromboses. When we divided our patients with SLE into those who had a definite, probable, questionable or no antiphospholipid syndrome (aPS) we found the frequency of C4bp-S deficiency to be significantly higher in those with definite aPS than in those without aPS. Intermediate proportions were found in patients with probable and questionable aPS. The levels of C4bp-S decreased as the levels of aCL, particularly IgG, increased. Stepwise discriminant analysis of natural anticoagulants selected deficiencies of C4bp-S and FPC with increased ATIII as a set of variables with highest predictive power for classification of patients with and without aPS. Thus, deficiencies of natural anticoagulants may occur frequently in patients with SLE. 
Psychiatric aspects of headache. Psychological factors, such as psychological stressors, personality style, conditioning, and psychodynamic issues, play a role in the etiology of chronic migraine and muscle contraction headaches. Psychiatric disorders, such as depression, anxiety, personality disorders, conversion, and hypochondriasis, may accompany and complicate headache. Psychiatric diagnosis and treatment add a useful and important dimension to the medical care of the patient. This article presented a useful conceptual model for discriminating between different kinds of psychological influencing factors and guidelines for selecting the appropriate form of psychiatric treatment. 
Regulation of phospholipase D and primary granule secretion by P2-purinergic- and chemotactic peptide-receptor agonists is induced during granulocytic differentiation of HL-60 cells. We have compared the abilities of extracellular ATP (acting via P2-purinergic receptors) and formylated peptides (FMLP) to stimulate both phospholipase D (PLD)-based signal transduction and primary granule (azurophilic) secretion in HL-60 cells induced to differentiate along the granulocytic pathway. In undifferentiated HL-60 cells, neither ATP nor FMLP elicited significant PLD activation or increased secretion despite the previously documented ability of ATP to stimulate large increases in polyphosphoinositide hydrolysis and Ca2+ mobilization. Conversely, within 1 d after induction of granulocytic differentiation by dibutyryl cAMP, both ATP and FMLP induced large increases in azurophilic secretion and corresponding increases in PLD activity. ATP-activated PLD activity was near-maximal within 1 d after dibutyryl cAMP treatment, while the FMLP-induced activity increased continuously over 4 d, with a maximal level twice that stimulated by ATP. Additional experiments characterized the activation of PLD by receptor-independent pathways at different stages of differentiation; these included studies of phorbol ester action in intact cells and GTP gamma S action in electropermeabilized cells. An apparent role for guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins in PLD regulation was also indicated by the significant reduction in FMLP- and ATP-stimulated PLD activity observed in cells pretreated with pertussis toxin. At all stages of differentiation, there was good correlation between the relative efficacies of ATP versus FMLP in stimulating both secretion and PLD activity. These data indicate: (a) that the receptor-regulated phospholipase D signaling pathway is induced during differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells; and (b) that differential activation of this signaling system by various Ca(2+)-mobilizing receptor agonists may underlie the differential regulation of secretion and other phagocyte functions by such agents. 
Helicobacter pylori-associated exaggerated gastrin release in duodenal ulcer patients. The effect of bombesin infusion and urea ingestion. Recent studies have shown that the exaggerated meal-stimulated gastrin release in patients with duodenal ulcer abates after eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection. Bombesin-stimulated gastrin release was compared in 11 H. pylori-infected patients with chronic duodenal ulcer and 8 uninfected healthy volunteers both before and after therapy to eradicate H. pylori. Bombesin infusion significantly increased the gastrin release both in control subjects and in patients with duodenal ulcer. Antimicrobial therapy (bismuth, tetracycline, and metronidazole) to eradicate the H. pylori infection was associated with a significant reduction in bombesin-stimulated gastrin release in patients with duodenal ulcer (from 116.9 +/- 19 pg/mL to 69.5 +/- 7 pg/mL following 50 pmol.kg-1.h-1 bombesin; and from 158 +/- 29 to 83.4 +/- 10 following 200 pmol.kg-1.h-1 bombesin: P = 0.01 for each). Antimicrobial therapy had no effect on gastrin release in uninfected volunteers, thus excluding a nonspecific effect of antimicrobial therapy on antral G-cell function. Serum gastrin was also not increased by feeding 500 mg of urea to 5 H. pylori-infected volunteers. This suggests that access of hydrogen ion to the pH-sensitive sites governing gastrin release by mucosal ammonia produced by H. pylori urease is not a critical factor. These data suggest that exaggerated gastrin release present in patients with duodenal ulcer disease is secondary to H. pylori infection. 
Interleukin-1 mRNA-expressing macrophages in human chronically inflamed gingival tissues. Interleukin-1 (IL-1)-producing cells in inflamed gingival tissues obtained from patients with periodontitis were examined by combined immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Macrophages, T cells, B cells, and endothelial cells were visualized in the lesions by the immunoperoxidase method using specific antibodies to each cell type. Subsequent in situ hybridization using 35S-labeled synthetic oligonucleotide probes complementary to human IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNA showed IL-1 transcripts in macrophages predominantly but not in T cells or B cells. Neither fibroblasts nor keratinocytes contained the IL-1 message to any significant extent. Endothelial cells also were essentially negative for IL-1 messages. These findings indicate that IL-1 is produced principally by macrophages in inflamed gingival tissues of humans. 
Current management, local management, and survival statistics of high-grade osteosarcoma. Experience in Japan. To report the current management of high-grade osteosarcoma in Japan, the authors studied the results of 55 cases treated in the authors' institutions and data provided by Osaka University (59 cases), Chiba Oncology Group (97), and Sapporo National Hospital (70). Twenty-five of the 55 cases in the authors' series were treated by limb-salvage surgery, 27 by amputation, and the remainder by chemotherapy. In all 226 cases from the three institutes, 106 were treated by amputation and 120 by limb-salvage surgery. Two local recurrences (4%) were found in the authors' series, three in the Osaka series, and eight in the Chiba series. Five-year accumulative survival rates in this study showed some differences, depending upon the institution or upon the protocol employed: in the authors' series it was 60% overall and 68% for a stronger chemotherapy group; in the Osaka series, it was 50% in a mild chemotherapy group and 72% in an intensive chemotherapy group; and in the Sapporo series, it was 36% and 73%, respectively. This study showed that local control of IIB osteosarcoma was successfully achieved by preoperative adjuvant chemotherapy and wide resection, and that an intensive chemotherapeutic combination of high-dose methotrexate, cisplatinum, and doxorubicin is promising. 
Nocardial meningitis: case reports and review. Twenty-eight episodes of nocardial central nervous system infection fulfilling criteria for meningitis were reviewed. In 21 cases Nocardia was cultured from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Associated predisposing conditions were present in 75% of cases. The typical presentation was subacute to chronic meningitis characterized by fever (68%), stiff neck (64%), and headache (55%). CSF studies revealed neutrophilic pleocytosis (83% of cases, greater than 500 white blood cells/mm3), hypoglycorrhachia (64%, less than 40 mg of glucose/dL), and elevated protein level (61%, greater than 100 mg/dL). In 43% of cases there was an associated brain abscess. Patients with brain abscess had more frequent and severe aberrations in mental status as well as higher initial white blood cell counts in CSF. Mortality was 52% for the 23 cases diagnosed antemortem and 57% overall. Compared with patients who died, survivors were younger, had lower initial CSF glucose levels, and were less likely to have brain abscess. Diagnosis was often delayed, and nocardial infection was rarely suspected before positive culture reports or autopsy findings became available. 
The influence of severity of spinal cord ischemia in the etiology of delayed-onset paraplegia. To clarify the cause of delayed-onset paraplegia, the authors evaluated the neurologic outcome after temporary (10 to 30 minutes) spinal cord ischemia in the awake rabbit. Loss of motor function occurred in less than 2 minutes in all animals. Restoration of flow within 16 minutes always resulted in full return of function, whereas with occlusion times of greater than 27 minutes all animals remained paralyzed. After temporary occlusion of 20 to 21 minutes, however, 71% of animals returned to normal neurologic function but developed delayed-onset paraplegia 14 to 48 hours later. This appears to be a reliable method for the creation of a model of delayed-onset paraplegia in the awake animal, and will facilitate more detailed studies of the pathophysiology of ischemia-induced paraplegia. 
Massive hemorrhage from a ruptured enteric varices of an augmented bladder. Intestinal varices are uncommon and usually occur secondary to portal hypertension. We report a case of variceal rupture in the intestinal segment of an augmentation colocystoplasty. The patient presented in shock from exsanguinating hemorrhage per urethram, and diagnosis was established at laparotomy. Although the bleeding was controlled with excision of the involved intestinal segment, the patient died of multiple organ failure. The diagnosis and treatment of this rare but fatal condition are discussed. 
Fatal aortic rupture during balloon dilatation of recoarctation. In an eight year old boy with a patch aortoplasty, the aorta ruptured during balloon angioplasty for recoarctation. At necropsy a 1.5 cm long, full thickness tear and a separate, smaller, intimal tear were found. Histological examination showed thinning of the elastic laminae of the aorta. Angioplasty for recoarctation may be dangerous in patients with a patch aortoplasty. 
Investigations on the biochemical characteristics of chronically underperfused muscle. During operation, biopsies from the gastrocnemius muscle and, in some cases, from the sartorius muscle were taken from 32 patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease and from 5 subjects with normal peripheral circulation. In patients with inadequate circulation only during exercise, when compared with the control group, increased activities of enzymes involved in oxidative metabolism (malate dehydrogenase, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase, cytochrome C oxidase, creatine kinase), in amino acid metabolism (asparate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase), and in anaerobic glycoysis (lactate dehydrogenase) were found. In patients with circulatory disturbances that manifested themselves already at rest, enzyme activities were, with the exception of LDH, lower than those of patients with exclusively exercise-related insufficiency. By means of intraindividual comparisons with the corresponding enzyme activities in the sartorius muscle, the author was able to show that the changes found were not simply the result of differences in training conditions. The diminished concentrations of energy-rich phosphate are an expression of the anaerobic metabolic state in patients with inadequate circulation at rest. It is concluded that chronic ischemia of muscle leads to changes in the energy metabolism of the cell. In the presence of more nearly adequate circulation at rest, the portion of oxidative potential of the total energy metabolism increases. In contrast, if there is an inadequate circulation at rest, the mainly anaerobic glycolysis becomes quantitatively predominant. 
Acute pulmonary embolism in pediatric patients awaiting heart transplantation. Acute pulmonary embolism with infarction can delay urgently needed heart transplantation and increase the postoperative pulmonary complications. Few data are available concerning pulmonary embolization in the pediatric patient with end-stage congestive heart failure. Sixty-two consecutive pediatric patients awaiting heart transplantation were monitored for evidence of acute pulmonary embolism. Acute pulmonary infarction was documented by ventilation-perfusion scan, pulmonary angiography or pathologic examination in six patients. The prevalence differed by diagnosis; 5 of 36 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and 1 of 20 patients with congenital heart disease developed acute pulmonary embolism with infarction. No significant difference in age at the time of transplantation evaluation, duration of congestive heart failure, presence of cardiac arrhythmias or degree of cardiac dysfunction was seen between patients with and without pulmonary embolism. Two-dimensional echocardiography failed to detect the presence of an intracardiac thrombus in four of the six patients. Two patients who developed acute pulmonary infarction are alive after successful heart transplantation. The remaining four patients died within 6 weeks of initiation of anticoagulant therapy before transplantation could safely be performed. In summary, pediatric patients with end-stage congestive heart failure are at risk for acute pulmonary embolism. No specific clinical factor identified those patients who developed acute pulmonary infarction. Anticoagulant therapy is strongly recommended in the pediatric patient with poor ventricular function awaiting heart transplantation. 
Reliability of interviewer and subject assessments of nevus counts in a study of melanoma. Several types of data are presented concerning the reliability of counting or estimating the density of nevi (moles), a major risk factor for melanoma, using methods typically employed in epidemiologic studies. First, interviewer-derived counts of nevi on the arm produced estimates of inter-observer, inter-subject, temporal and random variability, and their interactions. Second, interviewer-derived arm counts and respondent self-reports of whole body nevus density were compared. Finally, we compared male and female cases and controls with respect to their reported rates of having a relative with a malignant mole. Overall, the intra-observer reliability ranged from 55 to 81%, and was better for observers with more experience. The correlation between the interviewer counts and respondents' self-reported estimates was 0.41. The data on malignant moles in relatives suggest higher reporting rates in male cases and lower reporting in male controls relative to their female counterparts, but there is little difference by sex in the reporting of one's own nevus density. 
The unstable ST segment early after thrombolysis for acute infarction and its usefulness as a marker of recurrent coronary occlusion. To investigate the incidence of early recurrent ST elevation after intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, 12-lead electrocardiograms were continuously monitored for 571 +/- 326 minutes in 31 patients presenting within 4 hours of symptom onset. The study group comprised 9 women and 22 men (mean age +/- standard deviation 53 +/- 12 years), with ST elevation (anterior in 15, inferior in 16) on the initial electrocardiogram, who were given either tissue plasminogen activator (22 patients) or streptokinase (9 patients). Angiography was performed in 30 of 31 patients at 7 to 10 days. Early (less than 3 hours) resolution of ST elevation occurred in 19 patients (61%) at a median of 94 minutes (interquartile range 57 to 113) after thrombolysis, whereas 12 (39%) had no or late (greater than 6 hours) resolution. Eleven of the 19 with early resolution (58%) had either transient (5 patients) or sustained (6 patients) recurrences of ST elevation. Recurrent ST elevation was equal to or more than the initial peak elevation in 9 of 11 patients, and greater than 75% of initial peak in 2. A total of 25 episodes of recurrent ST elevation were observed in the 11 patients (19 transient and 6 sustained episodes), of which 8 (32%) were silent. The proportion of silent episodes was similar for transient (35%) and sustained (33%) recurrences. All patients with sustained recurrent ST elevation had at least 1 preceding transient recurrence. The median duration of transient recurrent ST elevation was 43 minutes (28 to 63). 
On lowering lipids in the post-infarction patient. In patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) elevated serum cholesterol levels, like other classical risk factors, remain predictive of further coronary events. The excess risk attributable to raised cholesterol levels is considerable, and greater than that in subjects without CHD. A recent meta-analysis of all eight qualifying trials of secondary prevention of CHD by cholesterol lowering is reviewed. There were significant reductions in recurrent non-fatal and fatal CHD, with a downward trend in total mortality. Mechanisms underlying the relationship between cholesterol lowering and secondary prevention are reviewed. The implication of this analysis of trials for clinical practice is that hypercholesterolaemia should be sought and effectively treated in patients with CHD, unless contraindications are present. 
Increasing use of soyfoods and their potential role in cancer prevention. The United States produces approximately half of the world's soybeans. Although most of what is produced is used as animal feed, soy-protein products (eg, soy-protein flour, concentrates, and isolates) are used extensively by the food industry, primarily for their functional characteristics, such as emulsification. During the past decade, however, there has been a marked increase in the use of both traditional soyfoods, such as tofu and soymilk, and second-generation soyfoods, products which generally simulate familiar American dishes. Recently, attention has focused on the possible role of soybean consumption in reducing cancer risk. Soybeans contain, in relatively high concentrations, several compounds with demonstrated anticarcinogenic activity. Two of these compounds--protease inhibitors and phytic acid--have traditionally been viewed as antinutrients. The scientific community has begun to appreciate the potential importance of nonnutritive dietary compounds (phytochemicals) in foods such as soybeans. Dietitians need to become more aware of the phytochemical content of foods and the possible effect of phytochemicals on health and disease. 
The low-affinity p75 nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor mediates NGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. Protein tyrosine phosphorylation is a potential mechanism for initial signaling in PC12 cells during differentiation in response to nerve growth factor (NGF). NGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation has been found to be initiated by the trk protooncogene, which participates in the formation of high-affinity NGF binding sites. In contrast to transfection of wild-type low-affinity p75 NGF receptors, transfection of p75NGFR with mutations in the cytoplasmic domain resulted in an inability of NGF to elicit tyrosine phosphorylation of intracellular substrates, indicating that p75NGFR is involved in initiating phosphorylation events by NGF. Even though the p75NGFR receptor does not possess any inherent tyrosine kinase activity, these experiments demonstrate that the p75NGFR has a potential role in NGF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. 
Renal calculi in lower pole calices: what is the best method of treatment? Percutaneous nephrolithotomy and extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) can be used in the treatment of lower pole caliceal calculi. In a retrospective analysis these 2 therapies were compared for treatment of solitary lower pole caliceal calculi to evaluate morbidity. During a 2-year period 23 patients treated with percutaneous nephrolithotomy and 24 who underwent ESWL with the Siemens Lithostar were analyzed in regard to the success rate, effectiveness quotient, complication rate, length of hospitalization and disability period. Followup consisted of ultrasound and/or a plain film of the kidneys, ureters and bladder 1 day and 1 to 3 months postoperatively. A nephrotomogram was included in the ESWL group. Complete removal of all stone fragments was achieved in 93.6% of the patients treated percutaneously without retreatment. In the ESWL group the success rate was 79.2% with a 41.6% retreatment rate. On the other hand, the ESWL group had a shorter hospitalization and an earlier return to normal physical activities. Among the patients who underwent a percutaneous operation 13% had complications compared to 4.1% in the ESWL group. The recurrence rate was higher in the former group (13% within a median of 18 months, compared to 8.3% within a median of 11 months in the ESWL group). The mean stone diameter was 1.42 cm. in the percutaneous group and 1.22 cm. in the ESWL group. Stone composition was similar in both groups. Since ESWL is an effective noninvasive procedure without the need for routine anesthesia and hospitalization, and with prompt return of the patient to a normal life it must be considered the method of choice for lower caliceal stones less than 2 cm. in diameter. However, percutaneous nephrolithotomy will continue to have a primary role in the management of larger stones. 
Biliary surgery after cardiac transplantation. Many patients have undergone successful cardiac transplantation. These patients are at risk of developing the same surgical diseases as the general population. The side effects of immunotherapy may mandate intervention at a different point in the natural history of these processes. From February 1984 through December 1989, 24 patients underwent an operative biliary tract procedure following cardiac transplantation. Seventeen patients underwent elective cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography. The mean hospital stay was 5.4 days, and there was no morbidity or mortality. Seven patients underwent urgent procedures; four of them developed severe complications and three died as a result of their biliary tract disease. Two patients in the urgent group had previously exhibited symptoms of biliary tract disease, and five were previously asymptomatic. There was no significant difference in time from transplantation to biliary procedure between the elective group (mean, 17 months; range, 3 weeks to 47 months) and the urgent group (mean, 18 months; range, 3 weeks to 44 months). Patients who undergo cardiac transplantation should be screened for cholelithiasis. The presence of symptoms should not be required before recommending operative intervention. 
Postoperative infusional continuous regional analgesia. A technique for relief of postoperative pain following major extremity surgery. A new technique using postoperative infusional continuous regional analgesia (PICRA) for postoperative pain relief was investigated in 23 surgical patients treated by amputation (12 patients) or by limb-salvage resection operations (11 patients). Bupivacaine was delivered into peripheral nerve sheaths via catheters placed therein at the time of surgery. Only patients in whom the nerves were easily accessible were treated. Catheters were placed in the axillary sheath, the lumbosacral trunk, and the femoral nerve sheaths of patients treated with shoulder girdle and pelvic procedures (resections and amputations), and within the sciatic nerve sheath of those treated with lower extremity procedures. The anesthetic agent was delivered at controllable rates. Regional analgesia was obtained in the operative site with minimal motor or sensory decrease. To assess the efficacy of this technique, the results of this study group were compared with those of a matched group of 11 patients treated with similar surgical procedures but who received epidural morphine. Eleven of the 23 patients on PICRA required no supplemental narcotic agents. The mean level of the narcotic agents required by the remaining 13 PICRA patients was approximately one third of that required by the matched group of 11 patients receiving epidural morphine. Overall, the patients on PICRA had an 80% reduction of narcotic requirements when compared to the historical controls. The technique is reliable and can be performed by the surgeon, requiring about a ten-minute increase in operating time. It has potentially wide application in orthopedics in procedures in which the major nerves are easily accessible (e.g., pelvic fractures and revision hip surgery) and for patients with intractable pain of the extremities. 
Lambda-like and V pre-B genes expression: an early B-lineage marker of human leukemias. V pre-B and lambda-like genes are selectively expressed in human pre-B cells and encode polypeptide chains that associate in a mu-pseudolight chain complex that may regulate some crucial steps of early B-cell differentiation. We have followed by polymerase chain reaction and Northern blot analysis the expression of these "pre-B-specific" genes in correlation with the status (rearranged v germline) of Ig gene loci (H, kappa, lambda) in a panel of 32 leukemias pertaining mostly to the B lineage and including a number of ambiguously characterized samples. All cells that had rearranged the H locus only expressed V pre-B and lambda-like transcripts, in agreement with a pre-B status. In this group, some biphenotypic leukemias (mostly My/B) might, in fact, be already engaged in the B lineage. Rearrangement of V kappa or V lambda loci correlated with the disappearance of the pre-B gene products. In a pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line that was induced to mature to the B-cell stage in culture upon kappa gene rearrangement, the mu-pseudolight chain complex was actually replaced by the classical mu-kappa molecule. Finally, V pre-B and lambda-like genes were found expressed in two leukemic cells that had retained all Ig loci in germline configuration. This finding raises the possibility of having an early pro-B progenitor in which V pre-B and lambda-like products associate with a H chain surrogate in a complex that would trigger an early event of B-cell differentiation such as the H locus rearrangements. 
Erythroderma, palmoplantar keratoderma and profound failure to thrive in an infant. The case is reported of a female infant, who at the age of 3 months developed severe erythroderma, marked hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles and subsequently extreme growth failure and intermittent diarrhoea. Her course was complicated by life-threatening infections but detailed investigation revealed no recognized underlying metabolic or immune abnormality. 
Role of interstitial therapy in the treatment of liver cancer. Conventional palliative management of inoperable focal hepatic tumours remains unsatisfactory. Interstitial techniques such as cryotherapy, alcohol injection, low power laser hyperthermia and interstitial radiotherapy offer alternative approaches. Cryotherapy is an effective and precise technique for inducing tumour necrosis. It can only be performed at laparotomy making it relatively invasive and retreatment impractical. Alcohol is cheap and can be injected percutaneously. However, inhomogeneous distribution produces imprecise and nonreproducible lesions. Low power laser hyperthermia produces precise and reproducible areas of necrosis that are roughly spherical in shape. At present, this technique is most effective for small tumours. Interstitial radiotherapy remains the least evaluated of all the interstitial techniques. Unlike cryotherapy and low power laser hyperthermia, the biological effect of ethanol injection and interstitial radiotherapy cannot be monitored in real time by ultrasound. With the exception of cryotherapy, all methods can be applied percutaneously with low morbidity and mortality. None of these techniques is established, but they may offer the prospect of cure in cases where all areas of tumour can be positively identified and fully treated. However, in most instances the intention is to control the growth of relatively small discrete volumes of tumour within the hepatic parenchyma. 
Middle ear fluid lysozyme source in experimental pneumococcal otitis media. Middle ear infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae is important in the pathogenesis of acute and chronic otitis media, and lysozyme in middle ear fluid (MEF) is an important inflammatory mediator in this disease. To determine the source of lysozyme during the early period of acute pneumococcal otitis media, chinchillas were irradiated to induce neutropenia, and their middle ears were inoculated with heat-killed, encapsulated pneumococci. The number of inflammatory cells and concentration of lysozyme were measured in MEF between 6 and 72 hours after inoculation. In pneumococcus-inoculated ears, the mean number of inflammatory cells but not lysozyme was significantly lower in MEF from irradiated animals than that from nonirradiated animals at 6 hours. Since lysozyme accumulated in MEF before the influx of inflammatory cells in irradiated animals, the initial release of this inflammatory mediator is most likely not from inflammatory cells; and mucosal epithelial cells, the only other known source of lysozyme in the middle ear environment, were the probable source induced by the direct stimulation of pneumococci. Inflammatory cells may contribute lysozyme later in the inflammatory response, since cellular and lysozyme concentrations in irradiated and nonirradiated animals were similar between 24 and 72 hours. These results suggest that future therapeutic interventions to limit middle ear inflammation in acute otitis media may need to recognize the direct action of pneumococcal cells or their envelope components on middle ear epithelium. 
Operative management of acoustic neuromas: the priority of neurologic function over complete resection. The objective of surgical management of acoustic tumors is to remove them entirely and preserve facial nerve function and hearing when possible. A dilemma arises when it is not possible to remove the entire tumor without incurring additional neurologic deficits. Twenty patients who underwent intentional incomplete surgical removal of an acoustic neuroma to avoid further neurologic deficit were retrospectively reviewed. They were divided into a subtotal group (resection of less than 95% of tumor) and a near-total group (resection of 95% or more of tumor) and were followed yearly with either computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The subtotal group was planned and consisted of elderly patients (mean age, 68.5 years) with large tumors (mean, 3.1 cm). The near-total group consisted of younger patients (mean age, 45.8 years) and smaller tumors (mean, 2.3 cm). The mean length of followup for all patients was 5.0 years. Ninety percent of patients had House grade I or II facial function post-operatively. Radiologically detectable tumor regrowth occurred in only one patient, who was in the subtotal resection group. Near-total resection of acoustic tumor was not associated with radiologic evidence of regrowth of tumor for the period of observation. Within the limits of the follow-up period of this study, subtotal resection of acoustic neuroma in elderly patients was not associated with clinically significant recurrence in most patients and produced highly satisfactory rates of facial preservation with low surgical morbidity. 
The role of albumin in human physiology and pathophysiology, Part III: Albumin and disease states. The serum albumin level is one of several clinical parameters of the status of general health. There is a marked correlation between low albumin levels and the incidence of morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients. Therefore, it is not surprising to find that hypoalbuminemia is a common finding among hospitalized patients. This results from alterations in the catabolic or anabolic rates, losses of albumin, or redistribution between the various fluid compartments of the body. Somewhat less well defined than the role of albumin as a prognostic indicator is its role in compounding pathophysiology. Hypoalbuminemia is known to be associated with delayed wound healing. The hypoalbuminemic state interferes with the normal functioning of the gastrointestinal tract. Qualitative changes in the albumin molecule which occur in renal disease may damage the nephron. Low serum albumin levels may adversely affect the coagulation system. Further investigation into the role of albumin in pathophysiology is warranted. 
Differentiation between renal allograft rejection and cyclosporine toxicity: a clinicopathological study. The differentiation between cyclosporine nephrotoxicity (CyN) and acute rejection (AR) still remains a matter of intensive research. In a retrospective study over the last 2 years, we assessed the clinical and histopathological data of 43 episodes of renal dysfunction in 39 renal transplant recipients immunosuppressed with cyclosporine (CyA). Ten episodes (23.2%) were identified as AR and 10 (23.2%) as acute CyN; in six cases (13.9%), signs of both AR and CyN were found. Fever (80%), oliguria (50%), and edema (50%) were prominent features in AR, but not in CyN. Renal blood flow was higher in the nephrotoxicity group and for corresponding degree of renal dysfunction. Significant hyperuricemia (greater than 8 mg/dL) was a prominent finding in CyN (80%) and to a lesser extent in AR (20%). The helper to suppressor cell ratio in the peripheral blood remained stable or slightly decreased in all cases with CyN, but increased in 70% of the cases with AR. CyN was associated with significantly higher whole blood CyA levels (P less than 0.005) and there was a positive correlation between plasma creatinine and CyA levels during the nephrotoxicity episodes (P less than 0.02). Diffuse mononuclear cell infiltrate was observed in 90% of the biopsies with AR and only in 20% with CyN (P less than 0.005). Concerning the extent of the tubular lesions, no significant differences were observed between the two groups. In contrast, vascular lesions such as arterial endothelial proliferation (P less than 0.05), hyalinosis (P less than 0.05), and glomerular capillary thrombi (P less than 0.05) were more commonly seen in nephrotoxicity biopsies. 
The paradox of 'chronic unstable angina' secondary to an organizing intracoronary thrombus [published erratum appears in South Med J 1991 Sep;84(9):1074, 1160] We have described a case in which coronary vasospasm and the resultant endothelial shear stresses most likely caused plaque rupture and transient coronary occlusion at the site of a minor atherosclerotic narrowing. Remodeling then led to a long, complex stenotic lesion that included ruptured and dissected endothelium and organized thrombus. This led to severe anginal symptoms over a 3-month period, or the paradox of "chronic unstable angina." Angioplasty was difficult but eventually successful after pulsed high-pressure balloon inflations and intracoronary thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase. This case demonstrates that the clinical course of a patient with minor or insignificant coronary disease may be a dynamic process that cannot be entirely predicted even by recent invasive cardiac studies. 
Lhermitte-Duclos disease and Cowden disease: a single phakomatosis. Two unrelated patients with macrocephaly, seizures, and mild cerebellar signs had a dysplastic gangliocytoma of the cerebellum (Lhermitte-Duclos disease). Both also had autosomal dominant Cowden disease as evidenced by facial, oral, and acral papules. In the two families, 9 sibs demonstrated the mucocutaneous lesions, thyroid disease, breast tumors, and ovarian tumors compatible with the diagnosis of Cowden disease. Some of the sibs also showed various degrees of neurological signs such as macrocephaly, mental retardation, seizures, tremor, and dysdiadochokinesia. Magnetic resonance imaging scans of sibs of one family demonstrated megalencephaly and other mild abnormalities. The occurrence of these two rare disorders in single patients is more than a coincidence, and the clinical findings in the combined condition establishes it as a new phakomatosis. 
Endothelin effects on renal function and tubuloglomerular feedback. Analysis of our data in conjunction with other recent literature allows the following conclusions regarding the role of endothelin in the tubuloglomerular feedback control mechanism and in the pathogenesis of acute ischemic renal failure: (1) Endothelin reduces nephron filtration rate in the nephrons with interrupted signal perception at the macula densa, in accord with preglomerular arteriolar constriction. Yet, the increase in filtration fraction in the whole kidney clearance study suggests a preferential postglomerular arteriolar constriction. Taken together, endothelin, which is a very potent renal vasoconstrictor, seems to constrict both preglomerular and postglomerular arterioles with a predominant constriction of the latter at the doses employed. (2) The endothelin-induced natriuresis is due to a fall in tubular reabsorption, reflecting a direct tubular action, possibly related to an elevation in blood pressure. (3) At the doses of endothelin used and under the present experimental conditions, changes in the magnitude of tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) response or the feedback characteristic could not be detected. (4) No evidence was found for a participation of endothelin in the pathogenesis of acute postischemic renal failure, as evidenced by the absence of an improvement in glomerular filtration after treatment with endothelin antiserum. 
Idiopathic photoreceptor dysfunction causes unexplained visual acuity loss in later adulthood. Progressive visual loss, caused by initially unrecognized retinal photoreceptor dysfunction predominantly affecting cones, developed in six patients in late adulthood. Because of minimal ophthalmoscopic retinal abnormalities, the patients initially had been suspected of having optic neuropathy or psychogenic visual loss. The correct diagnosis was ultimately established by finding electroretinographic abnormalities and color discrimination losses out of proportion to visual acuity loss. In no case was a causative agent or a family history of photoreceptor disease identified. In many other respects, however, features of the patients' illness resemble those described previously under the headings of cone dysfunction syndrome, cone dystrophy, cone degeneration, and cone-rod dystrophy. 
Volvulus of the splenic flexure: radiographic features. Six cases of splenic flexure volvulus were studied over a 14-year period. The patients were aged 15-62 years. Five of the six patients were mentally retarded, lifelong residents of a long-term-care institution. Two patients had congenital absence of normal colonic attachments; the other four patients had elongated mesocolons, presumably from chronic constipation. All patients underwent abdominal radiography, followed by a barium enema study. In the appropriate clinical setting, radiographic diagnosis of a splenic flexure volvulus is suggested when the following are seen: (a) a markedly dilated, air-filled colon wtih an abrupt termination at the anatomic splenic flexure; (b) two widely separated air-fluid levels, one in the transverse colon and the other in the cecum; (c) an empty descending and sigmoid colon; and (d) a characteristic beak at the anatomic splenic flexure at a barium enema examination. 
Results of surgical therapy for biliary dyskinesia. One hundred eighty-seven patients who presented with symptoms consistent with biliary colic but had no ultrasonic evidence of cholelithiasis were observed in an effort to identify those with a functional gallbladder disorder that might benefit from surgical intervention. All patients underwent quantitative evaluation of gallbladder emptying using cholecystokinin biliary scanning, and ejection fractions less than 35% were considered abnormal. One hundred twenty-nine patients (69%) had abnormal ejection fractions, and 88 (68%) of these subsequently underwent cholecystectomy. Sixty of the surgical specimens revealed pathologic changes. Eighty-four percent of patients successfully contacted for follow-up experienced complete relief, and another 13% had partial relief of preoperative symptoms. Only two patients reported no change in symptom complex. Twenty-nine patients with abnormal ejection fractions elected not to undergo surgery. Fifty-nine percent of these patients continued to experience symptoms of biliary colic at a mean follow-up of 22 months. Of the 44 patients with normal ejection fractions, 35 (80%) reported resolution of symptoms during follow-up of medical treatment. Cholecystokinin biliary scanning can help identify patients with acalculous, functional gallbladder disease who may benefit from cholecystectomy. 
Impedance cardiography for repeated determination of stroke volume in elderly hypertensives: correlation with pulsed Doppler echocardiography. In this double-blind, crossover study the authors have validated stroke volume determination by impedance cardiography against the pulsed Doppler echocardiographic method in elderly hypertensives. They found a good correlation between the stroke volume values obtained by the two methods over a range of values from 30 to 130 mL. The coefficient of linear regression was about .95 at each visit. The mean of the differences was -0.73 mL with a standard deviation of 8.46. Given that individual differences are normally distributed, the values corresponding to 2 standard deviations of the mean define a range covering 95% of the observed differences. From the distribution of the data around the mean plot it appears that, in comparison with pulsed Doppler, impedance cardiography tends to slightly underestimate stroke volumes of greater than 90 mL and to overestimate values of less than 50 mL. The results of this study indicate that impedance cardiography may represent a reliable alternative to pulsed Doppler echocardiography for the noninvasive estimation of cardiac output at rest in elderly patients. 
Tricuspid annular motion. Triscupid annular motion is related to right ventricular systolic function in the same way mitral annulus motion is related to left ventricular function. Tricuspid annular excursion reflects the longitudinal motion of the right ventricle, and the systolic descent of the anulus correlates with systolic venous inflow to the right atrium. However, it has not been shown clearly how to reproducibly quantify this motion. Therefore we describe a method to measure triscuspid annular motion using two-dimensional oriented M-mode echocardiography from the apical view. We studied a group of 10 normal subjects (mean age, 28.7 years; range, 25 to 38 years) and a group of 29 patients (mean age, 57.2 years; range, 20 to 84 years) with disease of the left side of the heart but no evidence of involvement of the right side of the heart. In each subject, tricuspid and mitral annular motion were measured respectively at their lateral, septal or medial, anterior, and posterior margin points. The total tricuspid annular motion for normal subjects was, as follows: lateral, 24.9 +/- 3.5 mm; medial, 20.1 +/- 2.5 mm; anterior, 21.6 +/- 3.8 mm; and posterior, 22.3 +/- 2.3 mm. Interobserver and intraobserver variability was low, with a coefficient of variance for the different annular points ranging from 6.19% to 11.56% between observers and from 4.10% to 7.26% within observer. We conclude that it is possible to measure tricuspid annular motion with this method in a reproducible way and to use it as a diagnostic tool in evaluating function of the right side of the heart. 
Melanosis coli: a case report in a trauma patient and review of the literature. Melanosis Coli (MC) is a benign pigmentation disorder of the colon occasionally diagnosed at endoscopy. The authors report a case of M. coli in a patient with a gunshot to the abdomen, in whom the entity produced an interesting clinical picture, and a review of the literature on this condition. 
Asymptomatic myocardial ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and importance of prior Q-wave infarction and diabetes mellitus. Eighty-eight patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of 100 stenoses were studied for the presence of factors deemed significant in the etiology of silent myocardial ischemia. Thirty-two patients were asymptomatic during balloon dilations of 36 arteries, and 56 patients had angina during PTCA of 64 arteries. There were no differences in age, sex, prior anginal history, antianginal regimen, extent of coronary artery disease and number or duration of inflations between the 2 study groups. Previous infarction (33 vs 12%, p less than 0.02), Q waves in the target area (31 vs 7%, p less than 0.005) and diabetes mellitus (36 vs 17%, p less than 0.05) were present more often in the asymptomatic group. Sixty-four% of all asymptomatic patients had either diabetes or previous infarction in the target territory. Collateral circulation was more frequent in asymptomatic patients, probably reflecting the ability of collateral arteries to ameliorate ischemia. During 2-vessel PTCA, patients without angina during dilation of only 1 of the 2 treated arteries (discordant responders) had previous infarction in that artery's territory (5 of 5, 100%), whereas patients without previous infarction were either symptomatic or asymptomatic (concordant responders) during PTCA of both arteries. This study shows that asymptomatic ischemia occurs frequently during PTCA in patients with symptomatic coronary disease. Prior Q-wave infarction and diabetes mellitus are important, independent factors associated with painless ischemia. It is suggested that infarction produces a localized dysfunction of afferent cardiac pain fibers, whereas diabetes can cause a global cardiac sensory neuropathy. 
Expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin (EXCEL) study results: IV. Additional perspectives on the tolerability of lovastatin. This randomized, double-blind, multicenter, diet-and-placebo-controlled study was designed to clarify the dose-response relationship of lovastatin therapy to lipid-modifying efficacy and drug-related adverse events. Exclusion criteria were minimized so that study patients were representative of the majority of patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia seen in medical practice. After 6 weeks on the American Heart Association Step 1 Diet, a total of 8,245 patients were randomly assigned to 48 weeks of treatment with diet and placebo or lovastatin at dosages of 20 or 40 mg once a day or 20 or 40 mg twice a day. All adverse events were monitored, with particular attention to evaluation of liver and muscle. Liver transaminase elevations suggestive of possible hepatotoxicity, defined as successive elevations in either aspartate transaminase or alanine aminotransferase greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal, occurred in equal numbers of placebo and lovastatin 20 mg/day treated patients (0.1%). The frequencies were higher in lovastatin 40 mg/day and 80 mg/day patient groups (0.9 and 1.5%, respectively). No patient was diagnosed as having clinically symptomatic hepatic dysfunction. Creatinine kinase (CK) elevations above the upper limit of normal occurred frequently in placebo- (29%), as well as lovastatin-treated patients (29-35%), and muscle symptoms were reported with similar frequency in all groups (7-9%). The combination of muscle symptoms with marked CK elevations (greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal) was seen in only five patients: one in a 40 mg/day dose group and four in the 80 mg/day dose group. No patient developed rhabdomyolysis. The incidence of clinical and laboratory adverse events requiring discontinuation was 6% for the placebo group and from 7% (20 mg/day) to 9% (80 mg/day) for lovastatin treatment groups. No new types of adverse experiences related to lovastatin treatment were reported. Lovastatin, as an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated LDL cholesterol, was generally very well tolerated. 
Cis-platinum chemotherapy for ocular basal cell carcinoma. We have used intravenous cis-platinum chemotherapy in the treatment of three patients with basal cell carcinoma of the lid extending into the orbit. Cis-platinum chemotherapy caused a reduction in tumour size and thereby delayed surgery in all cases. It allowed for local resection in one case, appeared to delay a patient's exenteration in a second case, and was used prior to radiotherapy in a third case. While not curative, cis-platinum may be useful as an adjuvant to decrease tumour mass prior to local excision and for patients who refuse or must delay exenteration. 
Percutaneous radiofrequency catheter ablation for supraventricular arrhythmias in children. Nineteen procedures were performed in 17 children, aged 10 months to 17 years, using catheter radiofrequency applications for the management of malignant or drug-resistant supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. Diagnoses were junctional ectopic tachycardia in 1 patient, atrioventricular (AV) node reentrant tachycardia in 4 and accessory pathway-mediated tachycardia in 12. Accessory pathway locations were left lateral (n = 4), posteroseptal (n = 3), left posterior (n = 2), right posterolateral (n = 1), right posterior paraseptal (n = 1), right intermediate septal (n = 1) and right anterior (n = 1). Ablation of accessory pathways was performed using 20 to 40 W of energy. The catheter was passed retrograde to the left ventricle in patients with a left-sided pathway and anterograde to the right atrium in those with a right-sided or posteroseptal pathway. In the 12 patients with an accessory pathway, radiofrequency applications were successful in 11 pathways and failed in 2. There were no recurrences of accessory pathway-mediated tachycardia. Atrioventricular node reentrant tachycardia was treated by AV node modification using 15 W of energy applied until first degree AV block occurred. After radiofrequency catheter ablation, there was a prolonged AH interval, tachycardia was not inducible and tachycardia recurred in one patient. For the patient with junctional ectopic tachycardia, 15 to 18 W of energy was delivered at the site of the maximal His bundle electrogram until sinus rhythm and normal AV conduction appeared. After a recurrence, a second procedure abolished tachycardia and AV conduction. In summary, radiofrequency catheter ablation was initially successful in 17 of 19 procedures and ultimately curative in 14 (82%) of 17 patients with no serious complications. Radiofrequency catheter ablation appears to be a safe and effective method for the management of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in children. 
The heterogeneity of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). I. Characterization of peptide heterogeneity in 13 individual preparations of hCG. Peptide variations in the alpha-subunit (molecules starting at alpha 3 and alpha 4) and beta-subunit (missing linkages at beta 44-45 and beta 47-48) of hCG have been reported by several investigators. Studies, however, have been limited to standard hCG preparations (purified from large pools of urine) and other hCG samples from mixed urines. In this study we used chromatographic procedures to purify the total hCG content of 13 individual urines, 6 from patients with pregnancy and 7 from those with trophoblast disease (no hCG-containing fractions were excluded). Then, we examined for the first time the peptide variability among individual samples of hCG. We report 1) that individual hCG preparations have nicks (missing linkages) in the beta-subunit, primarily between residue 47-48 (11 of 13 samples) and, less commonly, at the linkage 44-45 or 46-47 (3 of 13 samples); 2) the extent of nicking varies greatly between individual preparations (range, 0-100% of molecules); 3) varying alpha-subunit N-terminal heterogeneity (N-terminus starting at alpha 3 or alpha 4) was also present (range, 0-28% of molecules), but was confined to preparations from individuals with trophoblast disease (6 of 7 samples from trophoblast disease urine, 0 of 6 from pregnancy urine); 4) hCG missing the beta-subunit C-terminal region was also detected (2 of 13 hCG preparations); and 5) 1 of 13 preparations was nicked on the hCG alpha-subunit, between residues 70 and 71. Thus, 12 of 13 individual hCG samples demonstrated at least 1 of 4 different forms of peptide heterogeneity. We conclude that individual hCG samples vary widely in the type and extent of peptide heterogeneity, an observation that is not appreciated when pools of hCG are studied. 
Role of cardiac ATP-regulated potassium channels in differential responses of endocardial and epicardial cells to ischemia. Epicardial cells are more susceptible to the electrophysiological effects of ischemia than are endocardial cells. To explore the ionic basis for the differential electrophysiological responses to ischemia at the two sites, we used patch-clamp techniques to study the effects of ATP depletion on action potential duration and the ability of ATP-regulated K+ channels in single cells isolated from feline left ventricular endocardial and epicardial surfaces. During ATP depletion by treatment with 1 mM cyanide (CN-), shortening of action potential durations was significantly greater in epicardial cells than in endocardial cells. Thirty minutes after initiating exposure to 1 mM CN-, action potential duration at 90% repolarization was reduced to 0.70 +/- 0.12 of the control value for endocardial cells versus 0.39 +/- 0.18 for epicardial cells (p less than 0.01), and action potential duration at 20% repolarization was reduced to 0.72 +/- 0.13 for endocardial cells versus 0.12 +/- 0.09 for epicardial cells (p less than 0.01). In both endocardial and epicardial cells, the shortening of action potential by CN- treatment was partially reversed by 0.3 microM glibenclamide; the magnitude of reversal, however, was much greater in epicardial cells. After exposure to 1 mM CN-, the activity of ATP-regulated K+ channels in cell-attached membrane patches was significantly greater in epicardial cells than in endocardial cells. To study the dose-response relation between ATP concentration and open-state probability of the channels, intracellular surfaces of inside-out membrane patches containing ATP-regulated K+ channels were exposed to various concentrations of ATP (10-1,000 microM). The concentration of ATP that produced half-maximal inhibition of the channel was 23.6 +/- 21.9 microM in endocardial cells and 97.6 +/- 48.1 microM in epicardial cells (p less than 0.01). These data indicate that ATP-regulated K+ channels are activated by a smaller reduction in intracellular ATP in epicardial cells than in endocardial cells. The differential ATP sensitivity of ATP-regulated K+ channels in endocardial and epicardial cells may be responsible for the differential shortening in action potentials during ischemia at the two sites. 
Carcinoma of the esophagus: CT vs MR imaging in determining resectability. MR imaging and CT were performed prospectively in 35 patients with esophageal carcinoma to determine the resectability of the primary tumors, because at our institution patients with resectable tumors have surgery regardless of the presence of distant metastases. Tumors with evidence of aortic or tracheobronchial invasion on MR or CT were considered to be unresectable. Tracheobronchial invasion was diagnosed when the tumor extended into the lumen of the airway, and aortic invasion was diagnosed when the triangular fat space between the esophagus, aorta, and spine adjacent to the primary tumor was obliterated. Two patients were excluded because of suboptimal MR images produced by motion artifacts. Pathologic proof was obtained from either surgery or autopsy in 31 patients. Of these, six patients (19%) had proved unresectable tumors (three aortic invasion and three tracheobronchial invasion). In all six cases, these features were correctly detected with both MR and CT. One patient had false-positive findings on MR and CT. An indeterminate diagnosis was obtained with MR in three patients and with CT in four patients. These incorrect or indeterminate results were all related to the diagnosis of aortic invasion. No patient had a false-negative result. When indeterminate diagnoses were considered false-positive, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for resectability were 100%, 84%, and 87%, respectively, for MR and 100%, 80%, and 84%, respectively, for CT. We conclude that MR and CT have nearly the same accuracy in predicting resectability of tumors in patients with esophageal carcinoma. 
Diverticulitis of the duodenum: clinical and radiological manifestations of seven cases. Seven patients with duodenal diverticulitis were evaluated by computed tomography (CT) and various other abdominal imaging techniques. The series included four men and three women who ranged in age from 47 to 84 yr (mean: 65 yr). They had presented with epigastric or periumbilical pain, low-grade fever, leukocytosis, and loss of appetite and weight due to postprandial cramps or vomiting. In each instance, the abdominal CT examination proved crucial in the diagnosis of duodenal diverticulitis, with contained perforation or inflammatory changes involving the adjacent structures. Five patients underwent laparotomy while two others were treated conservatively with antibiotics and/or percutaneous drainage of peridiverticular abscess. The clinical and radiological features of this uncommon entity are herein described, along with a brief review of the medical literature regarding the current approach to its diagnosis and management. 
Cryotherapy for cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) associated with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS): a phase II trial. To assess the response and toxicity of liquid nitrogen cryotherapy for cutaneous lesions of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) associated with AIDS, we evaluated 20 subjects with biopsy-proven KS in a phase II clinical trial. Subjects had two to four cutaneous KS indicator lesions treated with liquid nitrogen cyrotherapy. Treatment was repeated at 3 week intervals, allowing adequate healing time. On average, subjects received three treatments per lesion with a mean follow-up time of 11 weeks (range of 6-25 weeks). One treatment consisted of two freeze-thaw cycles, with thaw times ranging from 11 to 60 s per cycle. A complete response was observed in 80% of treated KS lesions and lasted a minimum of 6 weeks following the completion of therapy. Greater than 50% cosmetic improvement of KS was observed. Histopathology of treated lesions correlated poorly with cosmetic improvement. Response was not predicted by tolerance to zidovudine therapy, CD4+ cell count, presence of B symptoms, or previous chemotherapy. Subjects without prior history of opportunistic infection (OI) were more likely to have a better response than those with a prior history of OI. Subjects tolerated cryotherapy well. Blistering occurred frequently, but local pain was limited and relieved by acetaminophen. Secondary infection did not occur. Based on this study, we recommend cryotherapy to subjects with cutaneous KS lesions. Liquid nitrogen cryotherapy is easily applied as a primary therapy, and may also have a role in the treatment of cutaneous KS lesions that respond slowly or show incomplete cosmetic improvement with systemic therapies. 
Clinical risk factors for Alzheimer's disease: a population-based case-control study. Using information on clinical risk factors provided through the medical record linkage system of the Rochester Epidemiology Project, we conducted a population-based case-control study of Alzheimer's disease (AD). During the period 1960 to 1974, we identified 415 newly diagnosed cases of AD among residents of Rochester, Minnesota, and matched one community control to each case based on age, sex, and duration of community medical record. We estimated odds ratios using conditional logistic regression for several potential clinical risk factors of AD. Among more than 20 clinical risk factors that were evaluated, the only statistically significant findings were for episodic depression, personality disorder, and hypertension. 
Increasing incidence of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. The incidence of pyloric stenosis in the Mersey region rose from 1.54/1000 births in 1976-8 to 2.22/1000 births in 1986-8. Reliance on ultrasonography for diagnosis in the 1980s resulted in fewer 'tumours' being felt; diagnostic delay was not shortened overall but serial ultrasonography showed evolving lesions in six patients. Clinical examination and selective use of ultrasonography is advocated. 
Blunt abdominal trauma resulting in intestinal obstruction: when to operate? The overall approach to blunt abdominal trauma resulting in hematoma and intestinal obstruction has been variable and controversial. Recent reports recommend conservative nonoperative management. We reviewed six cases of duodenal and jejunal hematomas resulting from blunt trauma of which five resolved with nasogastric decompression and parenteral nutrition. The average hospital stay was 16 days (10-23 days), and total parenteral nutrition days were 9 days (4-16 days). Upper gastrointestinal series (UGI) demonstrated partial bowel obstruction in all five cases. In contrast, the sixth case was a restrained passenger who had evidence of complete bowel obstruction on UGI series, which failed to resolve after 18 days of conservative management. Laparotomy revealed jejunal and colonic strictures with fibrosis, which were successfully resected. We recommend that based on radiologic documentation of persistent high-grade obstruction, as well as the clinical course, patients whose obstructions do not resolve by 10 to 14 days ought to be further investigated and operative intervention considered. This approach may facilitate an earlier diagnosis of complications, reduce length of hospitalization and days on parenteral nutrition, as well as to expedite the proper management. 
Cold cerebroplegia. A new technique of cerebral protection during operations on the transverse aortic arch. Profound hypothermia associated with circulatory arrest is the commonest method of cerebral protection during operations on the aortic arch. This technique allows a limited time to perform the aortic repair, however. It also necessitates prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass to rewarm the patient. This may be the cause of coagulation disorders or infection. Selective perfusion of the carotid arteries can also be used. When the perfusion is derived from the main arterial line, however, the repair of the aorta requires that the vessel be crossclamped, and cannot be performed in an "open, bloodless" manner. To avoid the disadvantages of both techniques, we have developed a new technique of cerebral protection. After a regular cardiopulmonary bypass has been established, the carotid arteries are cannulated and perfused with blood cooled at 6 degrees to 12 degrees C, through a separate heat exchanger, while the core temperature is maintained at moderate hypothermia (25 degrees to 28 degrees C, rectal). To perform the "open" distal repair, the cardiopulmonary bypass is discontinued while the carotid perfusion is maintained (250 to 350 ml/min). When the distal repair is completed, cardiopulmonary bypass is resumed and the carotid perfusion is discontinued. Between 1984 and June 1989, 54 patients (mean age 55 years) were operated on with this method (45 elective operations, 9 emergency procedures). Mean duration of cardiopulmonary bypass was 121 minutes (65 to 248), and mean duration of circulatory arrest was 22 minutes (10 to 51). The electroencephalogram, routinely recorded, showed return of the cerebral activity after a mean time of 12 minutes and normal activity after a mean time of 66 minutes. There was no intraoperative death. Hospital mortality rate was 13% (7/54). One death was related to neurologic disorders. All patients but one awakened normally within 8 hours after operation. Two patients (4.3%) experienced a transient neurologic episode (lateral hemianopia) 9 and 11 days postoperatively. There was no hemorrhagic complication (24-hour average blood loss: 840 +/- 540 ml). In our experience the technique of "cold cerebroplegia" has been demonstrated to provide excellent cerebral protection. It requires no prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass and does not limit the time necessary to perform the aortic repair. It may be considered as a safe alternative to profound hypothermia associated with circulatory arrest. 
Lectin-reactive patterns of markedly elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein in patients with chronic active hepatitis. Four cases of chronic hepatitis associated with high serum levels of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) without hepatocellular carcinoma are reported. All showed transient elevations of serum AFP, with peak levels of 13,500, 8,000, 4,450, and 3,000 ng/ml shortly after aggravation resulting from liver function tests. Liver biopsies revealed severe parenchymal damage in all the cases with piece-meal necrosis, bridging necrosis or bridging fibrosis. In two of four cases, there was a lobular distortion. AFP stain by an immunoperoxidase method showed a positive result in surviving hepatocytes. Lectin affinity electrophoresis of AFP in the four cases, together with an additional 12 patients with chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis and 44 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, all having AFP levels above 1,000 ng/ml, revealed that the chronic hepatitis patients had a benign pattern of AFP bands, in contrast with the pattern of hepatocellular carcinoma with increased proportions of lentil lectin-reactive AFP-L3 and/or erythroagglutinating phytohemagglutinin-reactive AFP-P4, indicating that the analysis of lectin reactivity of AFP has a great value in differentiating the benign and malignant conditions with increased serum levels of AFP above 1,000 ng/ml. 
Effect of ST segment measurement point on performance of standard and heart rate-adjusted ST segment criteria for the identification of coronary artery disease BACKGROUND. Recent reports critical of the performance of heart rate-adjusted indexes of ST depression during exercise electrocardiography have used J-point rather than ST segment measurements. However, no standard exists for the optimal time after the J-point at which to measure ST segment deviation. METHODS AND RESULTS. To assess the effect of ST segment measurement position on performance of standard exercise electrocardiographic criteria, the delta ST segment/heart rate (delta ST/HR) index, and the ST segment/heart rate (ST/HR) slope for the detection of coronary artery disease, the exercise electrocardiograms of 50 clinically normal subjects and 80 patients with known or likely coronary disease were analyzed using ST depression measured at both the J-point and at 60 msec after the J-point (J + 60). A positive exercise electrocardiogram by standard criteria, defined as 0.1 mV or more of additional horizontal or downsloping ST depression at end exercise, had a specificity of 96% when ST depression was measured at either the J-point or J + 60. There was no difference in sensitivity of standard electrocardiographic criteria at J + 60 and J point (both 59%, p = NS). However, at matched specificity of 96%, the delta ST/HR index and ST/HR slope calculated using ST depression at J + 60 were significantly more sensitive (90% and 93%) than when calculated using J-point depression (64% and 61%, each p less than 0.001). Comparison of areas under respective receiver operating characteristic curves confirmed the superior performance of J + 60 as opposed to J-point measurements for both the delta ST/HR index (0.98 versus 0.89, p = 0.006) and the ST/HR slope (0.96 versus 0.87, p = 0.007) and also demonstrated modestly improved overall test performance for standard electrocardiographic criteria using J + 60 measurements (0.88 versus 0.82, p = 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. Use of J-point measurements significantly degrades performance of heart rate-adjusted indexes of ST depression but has less effect on standard criteria. 
Psychosis and physical aggression in probable Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency and type of psychotic symptoms in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and to test whether there is a relationship between specific psychotic symptoms and episodes of physical aggression. METHOD: From 209 patients with possible or probable Alzheimer's disease who had been assessed in a research clinic every 6 months for up to 4.5 years, 181 subjects with probable Alzheimer's disease were selected for study. On the basis of the summary note for each visit in the patients' charts, the presence of delusions, hallucinations, misidentifications, and episodes of physical aggression was determined. Data regarding psychotic symptoms and aggression were available for 170 and 169 subjects, respectively. RESULTS: Delusions had been reported for 74 (43.5%) of the patients and were the most frequent psychotic symptom; persecutory delusions were the most common type. Physical aggression had been noted for 50 (29.6%) of the patients. Delusions and misidentifications frequently preceded and were significantly associated with episodes of physical aggression. The presence of delusions was a significant predictor of physical aggression but accounted for only 3.5% of the variance. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that delusions are a risk factor for physical aggression in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease who have moderate to severe cognitive impairment. As delusions accounted for only a small percentage of the variance, further research is needed to identify other variables that may be significant predictors of physical aggression in this population. 
Management of complicated fractures involving the orbits and nasoethmoid complex in young children. This article presents some ideas and techniques for surgical reduction of complicated orbit and nasoethmoid complex fractures in young children. Operative techniques for surgical exposure and fracture reduction and fixation have evolved from standard facial incisions and wire fixation to complete exposure of the cranium and orbits via a bicoronal scalp flap, application of rigid plating techniques, and use of cranial bone grafts when necessary. This evolution of surgical techniques has been accompanied by an overall improvement in cosmetic and functional results. 
Postmenopausal estrogen therapy and cardiovascular disease. Ten-year follow-up from the nurses' health study BACKGROUND. The effect of postmenopausal estrogen therapy on the risk of cardiovascular disease remains controversial. Our 1985 report in the Journal, based on four years of follow-up, suggested that estrogen therapy reduced the risk of coronary heart disease, but a report published simultaneously from the Framingham Study suggested that the risk was increased. In addition, studies of the effect of estrogens on stroke have yielded conflicting results. METHODS. We followed 48,470 postmenopausal women, 30 to 63 years old, who were participants in the Nurses' Health Study, and who did not have a history of cancer or cardiovascular disease at base line. During up to 10 years of follow-up (337,854 person-years), we documented 224 strokes, 405 cases of major coronary disease (nonfatal myocardial infarctions or deaths from coronary causes), and 1263 deaths from all causes. RESULTS. After adjustment for age and other risk factors, the overall relative risk of major coronary disease in women currently taking estrogen was 0.56 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.40 to 0.80); the risk was significantly reduced among women with either natural or surgical menopause. We observed no effect of the duration of estrogen use independent of age. The findings were similar in analyses limited to women who had recently visited their physicians (relative risk, 0.45; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.31 to 0.66) and in a low-risk group that excluded women reporting current cigarette smoking, diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, or a Quetelet index above the 90th percentile (relative risk, 0.53; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.31 to 0.91). The relative risk for current and former users of estrogen as compared with those who had never used it was 0.89 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.78 to 1.00) for total mortality and 0.72 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.55 to 0.95) for mortality from cardiovascular disease. The relative risk of stroke when current users were compared with those who had never used estrogen was 0.97 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.65 to 1.45), with no marked differences according to type of stroke. CONCLUSIONS. Current estrogen use is associated with a reduction in the incidence of coronary heart disease as well as in mortality from cardiovascular disease, but it is not associated with any change in the risk of stroke. 
The short test of mental status. Correlations with standardized psychometric testing. The Short Test of Mental Status can be administered to patients in inpatient and outpatient settings in approximately 5 minutes, and it contains items that test orientation, attention, immediate recall, arithmetic, abstraction, construction, information, and delayed (approximately 3 minutes) recall. The test was administered to a group of demented community patients and their age- and sex-matched control subjects. Using an age-adjusted approach, sensitivity of the test to identifying dementia is 86.4, with a specificity of 93.5. The test was compared with standardized tests of cognitive function such as the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Mattis Dementia Scale, and the Auditory Verbal Learning Test, and showed a high degree of correlation. Group means and standard deviations for subtest items and total score are presented for control subjects (n = 138), demented patients (n = 130), and patients with memory impairment only (n = 20). Percentile scores for subtest items in control subjects are also provided. 
Relationship of echocardiographic, shunt flow, and angiographic size to the stretched diameter of the atrial septal defect. Stretched diameter of the atrial septal defect (ASD), measured by balloon sizing, is generally used as a guide to the selection of the size of the device utilized for transcatheter closure of the ASD. Balloon sizing is a cumbersome procedure and sometimes requires the use of very large size balloon catheters. Several methods of assessment of ASD size, namely, echographic, pulmonary-to-systemic flow ratio (Qp:Qs), and angiographic measures, were undertaken in a group of 16 patients, aged 7 months to 45 years (median, 4.5 years), who were being evaluated for transcatheter closure of ASD; the results were compared with the stretched diameter. Although the echographic size of the ASD (9.9 +/- 4.1 mm, mean +/- SD) is similar (p greater than 0.1) to the angiographic size (7.9 +/- 2.5 mm), it is much smaller (p less than 0.01) than the stretched diameter (16.1 +/- 5.3 mm). When the relationship between various measures of ASD was examined, although the Qp:Qs ratio and angiographic size have a significant (p less than 0.05) correlation with the stretched diameter (r = 0.55 and 0.54, respectively), the echo diameter has the best correlation coefficient, r = 0.82, p less than 0.001. The stretched diameter can be estimated by the equation: 1.05 x echo + 5.49 mm. It is concluded that the echographic diameter is a useful adjunct in the estimation of the stretch ASD diameter, which in turn can be used in the selection of the size of the device for transcatheter occlusion of the ASD. 
Pattern of cell kinetics in colorectal mucosa of patients with different types of adenomatous polyps of the large bowel. It is generally accepted that adenomatous polyps represent the natural precursor of many colorectal malignancies. The sequence, however, which leads from a normally appearing mucosa to cancer is complex and involves many steps, including a hyperproliferative mucosa with an upward expansion of the replicative compartment. The current study evaluates cell replication in normal colorectal mucosa of patients with adenomatous polyps of various types and relates the observed findings to the main clinical and morphologic features of adenomas. Forty-four patients with polyps and 27 controls entered the study. Samples of colorectal mucosa were taken at endoscopy and cell replication was evaluated with a standard autoradiographic procedure. Cell replication was expressed as labeling index (LI), in the whole crypt and in each of the five longitudinal compartments in which the crypts were divided. Total LI and LI per crypt compartment were significantly higher (P less than 0.02 and P less than 0.01, respectively) than in controls. There was no appreciable difference of LI values between patients with single or multiple, tubular or tubulovillous, small or large adenomas, but in all of these subgroups LI was significantly higher than in controls. In conclusion, in normally appearing colorectal mucosa of patients with adenomatous polyps there was a significant increase of cell replication and a marked upward expansion of the proliferative zone; these changes were more evident in the left colon and in the rectum. Finally, cell replication did not seem to be related to the number of polyps, to the most common histotypes, or to the pattern of recurrence. 
A new manifestation and treatment alternative for heparin-induced thrombosis. We treated a coronary artery bypass patient whose postoperative course was complicated by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and resultant pulmonary artery and saphenous vein graft thromboses. The pulmonary thromboemboli were found first, and pulmonary blood flow was restored with intravenously administered tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). A short time later, the vein grafts were found to be occluded, and we subsequently performed multivessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) using tPA as an adjuvant to oral warfarin sodium therapy with excellent results. We conclude that heparin-induced thromboses in the pulmonary arteries are amenable to thrombolytic therapy, including tPA, whereas this regimen appears to have little effect on saphenous vein grafts. We also found that a combination of warfarin and thrombolytic therapy is an alternative regimen for heparin-intolerant patients who require PTCA. 
Blood glucose control and albuminuria in type 1 diabetes mellitus. The relationship between long-term blood glucose control and albuminuria in type 1 diabetes was investigated in 42 male and 58 female patients who had had diabetes mellitus for more than 7 years. Their mean (+/- SD) age and diabetes duration were 18.6 +/- 3.6 and 12.1 +/- 3.5 years, respectively. For periods of observation ranging from 1 to 6 years (mean 4.4 +/- 1.5), hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) was measured two to six times yearly (mean of 8.8 +/- 3.9 determinations per patient). Albumin excretion rate (AER) was measured in single-void urine samples two to four times in 93 patients and once in the other seven patients. The 52 patients with mean HbA1c no more than 9.0% had significantly lower mean AER than those whose HbA1c was greater than 9.0% (20.1 +/- 24.6 vs 265 +/- 1005 mg/gm Cr, p less than 0.001). Only five (9.6%) of these 52 patients had elevated AER values (greater than 40 mg/gm Cr), whereas 21 (43.7%) of 48 patients whose mean HbA1c was greater than 9.0% had elevated AER values (p less than 0.001). Six male but no female patients had mean AER values greater than 300 mg/gm Cr. The 74 patients with normal AER had significantly lower mean HbA1c values than the 26 with elevated AER (8.6 +/- 1.5 vs 10.1 +/- 1.6%, p less than 0.001). These results support the contention that maintenance of HbA1c levels at no more than 9% (one and one-half times the upper limit of normal) will significantly decrease the likelihood that diabetic nephropathy will develop. 
Massive cystic ureteral diverticula in infancy. We report 2 cases of massive abdominal distension due to a mid ureteral diverticulum. In a 1-year-old boy the mid ureteral diverticulum was associated with an atrophied chronically scarred kidney. In a female newborn the diverticulum was associated with an upper pole ureter of a completely duplicated system. To our knowledge this type of ureteral diverticulum has not been reported previously. 
Neuronal and glial properties of a murine transgenic retinoblastoma model. Antigenic properties of a murine transgenic model for hereditary retinoblastoma, induced by a chimeric gene coding for Simian virus 40 large T antigen, an oncogene that inactivates the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product, were studied by immunohistochemistry. All transgenic mice develop bilateral intraocular retinal tumors in the inner nuclear layer with Homer Wright-like rosettes, and one quarter develop midbrain tumors resembling trilateral retinoblastoma. Cell lines TE-1 and TM-1 were established from intraocular and metastatic tumors, respectively. Intraocular tumors reacted with antibodies to neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, while vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic, and S-100 proteins were detected only in reactive glia derived from adjacent retina. The midbrain tumors showed weak reactivity to synaptophysin, and they blended with reactive astrocytes positive for glial markers. The tumors were negative for cytokeratins. Finally both derived cell lines expressed synaptophysin and individual neurofilament triplet proteins in immunofluorescence and Western blotting, supporting their essentially neuronal nature. The antigenic profile resembles human retinoblastoma, but differences in morphology and antigen distribution suggest a more close relationship to neurons of the inner nuclear layer than to photoreceptor cells. 
Quantitation of early myocardial ischemia using acridine orange fluorescence--an experimental study. It has been observed in the present investigation that ischemic myocardium consistently produces bright green fluorescence after Acridine Orange (AO) staining. The area of ischemia in the left ventricular myocardium at different time intervals after onset of experimental ischemia has been calculated by use of this AO fluorescence technique. Zonal distribution of ischemia in the epicardial, middle, and endocardial zones has also been evaluated quantitatively from ten minutes to six hours after ligation of the anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery in the Wistar strain of albino rats. No similar study was available for comparison from the literature reviewed. The total area of left ventricular ischemia showed an increase with the prolongation of duration of coronary ligation from 13.39 +/- 2.69 mm2 at ten to twenty-five minutes to 32.99 +/- 5.69 mm2 at six hours after ligation. Statistical analysis of the zonal area of ischemia has shown that ischemia in the middle and endocardial zones was greater than that in the epicardial zone at all time intervals recorded. Middle zone ischemia extended over a larger area than that over the endocardial zone at all intervals except at intervals II (30-45 min), IV (2-2 1/2 hrs) and V (3-4 hrs). The results of this experimental investigation are significant for these point to the value of Acridine Orange fluorescence in detecting early myocardial ischemia and in demarcating zonal differences in ischemia. The authors have successfully utilized the method in a few human cases of clinically suspected myocardial infarction and recommend the technique for routine use to detect early human myocardial ischemia. 
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome Four cases of T-cell lymphoma occurring in the setting of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) have been reported previously. We describe a 46-year-old man with AIDS in whom a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma with lymph node involvement developed. Immunohistochemical staining of the skin revealed the lymphoid infiltrate to be CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, and T-cell antigen receptor alpha/beta positive. Co-infection with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I was not detected by polymerase chain reaction. Human immunodeficiency virus infection may have contributed to the development of this patient's lymphoma. This case represents the rare occurrence of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and AIDS. 
The hemodynamic effects of intubation during nitroglycerin infusion in severe preeclampsia. The effectiveness of intravenous nitroglycerin infusion in lowering maternal blood pressure and in blunting the hemodynamic responses to endotracheal intubation was evaluated in six primigravid women with severe preeclampsia. Monitoring consisted of continuous electrocardiogram monitoring, arterial cannulation, and flow-directed pulmonary arterial catheterization in each patient. All patients underwent oxytocin induction of labor and crystalloid and/or colloid expansion to produce a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 10 to 15 mm Hg and a colloid osmotic pressure of greater than 17 mm Hg. Intravenous nitroglycerin was administered before induction of general anesthesia. The hemodynamic effects associated with endotracheal intubation revealed a change in the heart rate from 104 +/- 10 to 133 +/- 17 beats/min, an increase in mean arterial pressure from 134 +/- 12 to 164 +/- 32 mm Hg, and an increase in systemic vascular resistance from 1262 +/- 342 to 1351 +/- 259 dynes-sec-cm-5 that was accompanied by a small change in the cardiac index from 4.5 +/- 1.2 to 4.5 +/- 0.9 L.min-1.m-2. 
Malignant prolactinomas. Six cases of malignant prolactinoma have been reported; an additional two cases are presented here and the literature is reviewed. Diagnosis rests upon evidence of metastasis rather than histological criteria per se. Cases have arisen from known adenomas, particularly the invasive type. Bromocriptine is a useful palliative. The features and treatment of malignant prolactinoma are discussed. 
Evaluation of extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery using iodine 123 iodoamphetamine single-photon emission computed tomography. Eleven patients with occlusive cerebrovascular diseases were imaged with N-isopropyl-p-I-123 iodoamphetamine. Preoperative and postoperative single-photon emission computed tomography was performed in 10 patients undergoing extracranial-to-intracranial bypass procedures. New images were reconstructed from the two images obtained on the different days by superimposition and division in each pixel to get the ratio of cerebral perfusion change. All patients with bypass procedures had an increase in cerebral blood flow in the affected areas, and nine of 10 had an increase in cerebral blood flow in the contralateral cortex. There was no increase in cerebral blood flow in one case with no operation. Neither our procedure nor the results in this small series prove that recovery of function is due to an increase in blood flow, but we believe this is the case. 
Laser balloon angioplasty: clinical, angiographic and histologic results. Laser balloon angioplasty combines conventional coronary angioplasty with laser energy to transiently heat vascular tissue. Laser balloon angioplasty, was performed in 21 patients (aged 56 +/- 13 years), including 10 patients treated urgently after acute failure of conventional angioplasty and 11 patients treated with elective laser balloon angioplasty. Immediately after conventional angioplasty, laser doses (1 to 10 doses of 205 to 380 J each) were delivered during inflation of the laser balloon to a pressure of 4 atm. Seven (70%) of 10 patients with acute failure of conventional angioplasty were successfully treated with laser balloon angioplasty, but 3 (30%) were unsuccessfully treated with the laser procedure and required emergency coronary artery bypass surgery. In all three failures, the 3 mm laser balloon angioplasty catheter was not the optimal size for the vessel. In the 11 patients treated with elective laser balloon angioplasty (reference diameter 2.94 +/- 0.22 mm), the minimal luminal diameter increased from 0.45 +/- 0.25 to 1.85 +/- 0.46 mm after conventional angioplasty and to 2.44 +/- 0.29 mm after laser balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001). This corresponded to a decrease in diameter stenosis from 84 +/- 9% before to 35 +/- 16% after conventional angioplasty and to 15 +/- 10% after laser balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001). There were no instances of myocardial infarction, emergency coronary artery bypass surgery or death and no acute complications related to delivery of laser energy in this group. Follow-up coronary angiography was performed 5.5 +/- 1.1 months after laser balloon angioplasty in 18 patients discharged from the hospital after a successful procedure. Ten patients (56%) had angiographic restenosis, defined as recurrent diameter stenosis greater than 50%. Six patients were subsequently treated by directional coronary atherectomy, which revealed intimal proliferation indistinguishable from that in patients with restenosis after conventional angioplasty. In conclusion, laser balloon angioplasty may be effective in sealing severe coronary dissections and reversing abrupt closure associated with failed conventional angioplasty. After uncomplicated conventional angioplasty, laser balloon angioplasty improves immediate luminal dimensions, but restenosis appears to be mediated by intimal hyperplasia, similar to that seen after conventional angioplasty. 
Laser cordectomy for T1 glottic carcinoma: a 10-year experience and videostroboscopic findings. Fifty-three patients underwent laser cordectomy for T1 glottic squamous cell carcinoma between January 1980 and December 1989--sixteen after having undergone unsuccessful radiation and thirty-seven who had no previous treatment. There was a 51% five-year cure rate in the irradiated group vs. 62% in the nonirradiated group. Extension of tumor to the anterior commissure resulted in a higher failure rate. Patients experienced an overall 5-year cure rate of 98% after surgical or radiation salvage of unsuccessful laser cordectomies. Six patients had preoperative and postoperative videostrobolaryngoscopy. The most common postoperative problem with voice was a breathiness that did not resolve in any of the patients. All patients had absent or moderately reduced amplitude and mucosal wave patterns and imcomplete glottic closure proportional to the amount of cordal tissue removed. Despite it seemingly poor results in carefully selected patients, laser cordectomy is still indicated without compromising the ultimate oncologic results. Advantages over radiation therapy or conservation laryngeal surgery include a short treatment time, requiring only an outpatient surgical procedure at the time of the initial diagnostic and/or staging laryngoscopy, and the avoidance of potential radiation side effects or surgical complications. However, patients should be advised the possibility of persistent postoperative breathy dysphonia, in addition to the possibility of further treatment to effect a long-term cure. 
North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. Methods, patient characteristics, and progress. Fifty North American centers have combined to evaluate the benefit of carotid endarterectomy in randomized patients who have experienced symptoms related to arteriosclerotic stenosis of the carotid artery and who have received either best medical therapy alone or best medical therapy plus carotid endarterectomy. The outcome events are nonfatal and fatal stroke or death. A three-tier system identifies and adjudicates the type, severity, and location of each stroke and the cause of any death. Data about patients submitted to carotid endarterectomy outside the trial are compiled at the Nonrandomized Data Center at the Mayo Clinic. Between December 27, 1987, and October 1, 1990, 1,212 patients were randomized, 596 to medical therapy, 616 to carotid endarterectomy. Cross-over from the medical to the surgical arm has been low (4.2%). Patients eligible for the trial, but not randomized totaled 1,044; their characteristics were similar to those randomized so that, for the type of symptomatic patient in this study, our conclusions about the benefit of carotid endarterectomy can be generalized. Patients excluded by medical criteria totaled 679. Another 1,591 had carotid endarterectomy, but either lacked the disease under study, were asymptomatic, or received inadequate investigation to meet entry criteria. We set sample size at 1,900 patients, with continuing enrollment. The Monitoring Committee reviews at intervals the confidential analyses performed on the groups with moderate (30-69%) and severe (70-99%) stenosis. Stopping rules will be invoked for one or both groups if unequivocal benefit or harm is identified. 
Continuous automated monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials in posttraumatic coma. Using a microcomputer system, 36 patients were continuously monitored with somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) following closed head injury. The mean duration of monitoring was five days. The patients' GCS scores at the start of monitoring ranged from 3-10. Mortality was 44%. Of 14 patients who had initial absence of SSEP activity after the N20 wave or lost this activity during the period of monitoring, 12 died and two remained vegetative. Eighteen of 22 patients who had preservation or enhancement of this activity had a functional survival (3-month outcomes, p less than 0.001). The best outcomes were observed in the patients with the greatest number of peaks and highest amplitudes in the SSEPs, often in spite of increased intracranial pressure (ICP). The management of three patients was altered as a result of SSEP monitoring. We conclude that continuous monitoring of SSEPs is a useful adjunct in the management of comatose head-injured patients. 
Prostate specific antigen after irradiation for prostatic carcinoma. The clinical significance of serum prostate specific antigen after primary irradiation for adenocarcinoma of the prostate is uncertain. Between September 1986 and December 1987 serial prostate specific antigen values were determined in 43 patients before and after definitive radiation therapy. The study group included 6 patients with stage T0d, 10 with stage T1, 11 with stage T2 and 16 with stage T3 disease, with a mean pre-treatment prostate specific antigen level of 49.2 +/- 10.8. For all patients the first post-treatment prostate specific antigen level was less than the pre-treatment level. One patient failed locally with recurrent prostatic cancer that invaded the rectum. The 6 patients who failed with symptomatic metastases had an increasing prostate specific antigen level 2 to 7 months before detection of recurrence. Based on the absolute value and trend of the prostate specific antigen, patients were described as being at high, intermediate or low risk for distant metastases. Of 9 high, 6 intermediate and 28 low risk patients 4 (44%), 2 (33%) and 0 (0%) have experienced recurrent disease (p = 0.0025). We conclude that serial post-irradiation prostate specific antigen values may be useful in the early identification of patients at risk for treatment failure. 
Complications of infection and immunologic status after surgery for patients with esophageal cancer. Correlations between defective cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and infections following surgery for esophageal cancer were evaluated. Peripheral lymphocytes, T cells, B cells, PHA transformation, and PPD skin test were measured in 81 patients with esophageal cancer, 58 with gastric cancer, and 50 healthy controls. The depression of CMI was predominant to a similar extent in patients with esophageal cancer and in those with gastric cancer. The average level of PHA transformation immediately before surgery was significantly lower in the esophageal cancer patients with fatal septic complications than in those without such problems. Although preoperative radiation therapy markedly depressed the levels of the four parameters, this association was also noted in 28 patients not given radiation. It thus appears that PHA transformation may be valuable in the prediction of fatal septic complications after major surgery in patients with esophageal cancer. 
Evidence from cadavers suggestive of entrapment of fifth lumbar spinal nerves by lumbosacral ligaments. Lumbosacral spines from 51 geriatric-age cadavers (25 men and 26 women) were examined both grossly and under the dissecting microscope for evidence of compression of fifth lumbar spinal nerves by their respective lumbosacral ligaments. These ligaments were found to extend from the transverse process and body of L5 to the ala of the sacrum in 97% of the specimens, and from the transverse process and body of L5 to the promontory of the sacrum in 3% of the specimens. Anterior primary rami of the fifth lumbar spinal nerve were observed to be compressed in 11% (11 of 102) of the specimens examined grossly and under the dissecting microscope. Histologic evidence of chronic compression, as suggested by perineurial and endoneurial fibrosis, peripheral thinning of myelin sheaths, or subjective evidence of a shift in fiber diameter to a population of smaller size fibers was found, deep to the lumbosacral ligament, in three of the 11 nerves judged to be compressed. The information derived is of interest to the clinician whose patient presents with L5 root signs and a myelogram, discogram, and computed tomographic scan which do not show any abnormality. The possibility of extraforaminal compression must be considered as a possible source of the clinical signs. 
The use of transdermal scopolamine to control drooling. A case report. Drooling is a serious social handicap experienced by some neurologically impaired patients. No one method has been identified to control drooling for all patients, however, anticholinergic drugs recently have been utilized. In the case study described, transdermal scopolamine patches were found to be effective for controlling drooling in a traumatic brain-injured patient for whom more conservative methods failed. From a baseline saliva flow rate, saliva flow decreased an average of 30% with one-patch and 59% with two-patch dosing. No significant side effects were observed with treatment, and the decrease in drooling was maintained for a 4-month period. Although transdermal scopolamine may represent one acceptable facet of long-term treatment, it must be stressed that efficacy is variable across patient populations and that treatment approaches must be individualized. 
Gastric collision tumor (carcinoid and adenocarcinoma) with gastritis cystica profunda. We report a rare case of gastric collision tumor (carcinoid and adenocarcinoma) with gastritis cystica profunda that developed in a 49-year-old Japanese man. Early gastric cancer (moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma) was present at the edge of an ulcer in the posterior wall of the upper gastric body. In addition, a carcinoid tumor was found adjacent to adenocarcinoma. This tumor displayed ribbonlike or trabecular patterns, and numerous constituent cells were positive for the argyrophil reaction with Grimelius' stain and serotonin. Electron microscopic features of this tumor confirmed typical carcinoid. There was no merged appearance between both tumors, suggesting collision-type tumor. 
Neopterin and interferon-gamma in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with HIV-associated neurologic disease. We measured the levels of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and neopterin in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of 121 human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive (HIV+) and 62-seronegative (HIV-) individuals evaluated for neurologic disease. CSF levels of IFN-gamma and serum and CSF levels of neopterin were higher in HIV+ than in HIV- individuals. Patients with HIV- related meningitis and with opportunistic CNS infections had higher serum neopterin levels than HIV+ asymptomatic individuals. CSF levels of IFN-gamma were slightly higher in CSF of HIV+ individuals in all groups (0.31 +/- 0.03 U/ml) than in HIV- individuals (0.12 +/- 0.03). CSF levels of neopterin were similar in HIV+ asymptomatic individuals (6.9 +/- 0.7 nmol/l) and HIV- individuals (5.9 +/- 1.1), but were elevated in those HIV-infected individuals with neurologic disease, particularly patients with HIV-associated meningitis (72.1 +/- 13.3 nmol/l), opportunistic CNS infections (36 +/- 9.1), and inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathies (32.4 +/- 17.2). Levels of neopterin correlated positively with levels of soluble interleukin 2 receptor and soluble CD8, 2 additional indicators of immune activation. In the absence of neurologic disease, levels of IFN-gamma and neopterin in both serum and CSF were stable for up to 4 years after seroconversion. These data suggest that increased CSF neopterin is associated with HIV-associated neurologic disease. 
Serum immunoglobulin G subclasses in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1. We studied serum concentrations of IgG subclasses in 47 human immunodeficiency virus 1-infected (17 asymptomatic and 30 symptomatic) children. Thirty-nine of 47 (83%) had an abnormality of at least 1 subclass. Sixteen had only elevated IgG1, 6 had only elevated IgG3 and 12 had elevated IgG1 and IgG3 concentrations. IgG2, IgG4 and combined IgG2-IgG4 deficiency was found in 3, 4 and 4 patients, respectively. IgG2 concentrations did not differ between patients with (n = 23) or without (n = 24) bacterial infections. Additionally the number of bacterial infections was similar between the patients with normal or low IgG2 and/or low IgG4. These data indicate that IgG subclass abnormalities are found in most children with human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection, but quantitative deficiencies of specific subclasses do not appear to explain the high frequency of bacterial infections occurring in these patients. 
The bladder cooling test for urodynamic assessment: analysis of 400 examinations. The clinical significance of the bladder cooling test as one part of a standard urodynamic examination was studied in 375 consecutive patients and 25 controls. Inability to perceive cold sensation in the bladder was common in cases of neurogenic lesions and present in nearly half of the patients with outlet obstruction, some with no urodynamic abnormalities and some of the normal subjects. The bladder contractions provoked by the test were clearly associated with detrusor overactivity, as in those patients with upper motor neuron lesions of motor urgency, but 27% of such patients showed no response. In 7 cases the iced water provoked detrusor contractions when cystometry showed no overactivity. This clinical series confirms that the cold receptors found recently in animal experiments are also present in the human urinary bladder. The bladder cooling test is not an alternative to cystometry, but its inclusion as an integral part of the urodynamic examination seems to be useful, especially in cases where there is also a need to study the sensibility of the bladder at the same time. 
Choroideremia and deafness with stapes fixation: a contiguous gene deletion syndrome in Xq21. The study of contiguous gene deletion syndromes by using reverse genetic techniques provides a powerful tool for precisely defining the map location of the genes involved. We have made use of individuals with overlapping deletions producing choroideremia as part of a complex phenotype, to define the boundaries on the X chromosome for this gene, as well as for X-linked mixed deafness with perilymphatic gusher (DFN3). Two patients with deletions and choroideremia are affected by an X-linked mixed conductive/sensorineural deafness; one patient, XL-62, was confirmed at surgery to have DFN3, while the other patient, XL-45, is suspected clinically to have the same disorder. A third choroideremia deletion patient, MBU, has normal hearing. Patient XL-62 has a cytogenetically detectable deletion that was measured to be 7.7% of the X chromosome by dual laser flow cytometry; the other patient, XL-45, has a cytogenetically undetectable deletion that measures only 3.3% of the X chromosome. We have produced a physical map of the X-chromosome region containing choroideremia and DFN3 by using routine Southern blotting, chromosome walking and jumping techniques, and long-range restriction mapping to generate and link anonymous DNA sequences in this region. DXS232 and DXS233 are located within 450 kb of each other on the same SfiI and MluI fragments and share partial SalI fragments of 750 and greater than 1,000 kb but are separated by at least one SalI site. In addition, DXS232, which lies outside the MBU deletion, detects the proximal breakpoint of this deletion. We have isolated two new anonymous DNA sequences by chromosome jumping from DXS233; one of these detects a new SfiI fragment distal to DXS233 in the direction of the choroideremia gene, while the other jump clone is proximal to DXS233 and detects a new polymorphism. These data refine the map around the loci for choroideremia and for mixed deafness with stapes fixation and will provide points from which to isolate candidate gene sequences for these disorders. 
Mycobacterial infections after renal transplantation. Mycobacterial infections occurred in 11 of 633 (1.7 per cent) recipients of successful renal transplants. There were no cases of tuberculosis in patients receiving chemoprophylaxis, but amongst those who did not receive prophylaxis disease occurred in six of the 27 (22 per cent) high-risk patients. The major cause of morbidity during treatment was renal allograft rejection, largely due to reduction in immunosuppressive drug therapy. 
Facial reanimation after acoustic neuroma excision: the patient's perspective. Facial reanimation after acoustic neuroma excision is currently accomplished using a variety of surgical techniques. A multi-institutional survey of patient perceptions of facial reanimation success was accomplished by mailing a questionnaire to 809 randomly selected members of the Acoustic Neuroma Association. Four hundred sixty patients who underwent 296 reanimation procedures responded. Facial to hypoglossal nerve anastomosis, tarsorrhaphy, and upper eyelid implants were most frequently performed. The patient's estimations of initial deficit, spontaneous recovery, and overall satisfaction with the reanimation procedures are discussed. 
Successful shock-wave lithotripsy of bile duct stones using ultrasound guidance. Eighteen patients with 41 gallstones in the common bile duct, common hepatic, cystic, and intrahepatic ducts underwent shock-wave lithotripsy using the electrohydraulic Sonolith 3000 lithotripter. Lithotripsy was performed using ultrasound guidance alone under intravenous analgesia/sedation. All patients previously had failed stone extraction via retrograde endoscopy, T-tube, or cholecystostomy. Lithotripsy was performed according to an FDA-approved protocol allowing a maximum of two 2500 shock-wave treatments at a 48 hr interval. Following the final lithotripsy or cholangiographic evidence of stone fragmentation, residual fragments were removed via endoscopic or percutaneous route within 24-72 hr. Ultrasound localization of gallstones was aided by continuous infusion of the common bile duct with saline solution. In 15 of the 18 patients, complete fragmentation of the stones was accomplished, two had minimal fragmentation, and one with an encysted stone had no fracturing. No serious complications were encountered. Overall nonsurgical stone-free success rate was 17 of 18 patients, indicating biliary duct stones can be successfully treated using an ultrasound-guided lithotripter and intravenous sedation alone. 
Differentiation of F9 embryonal carcinoma cells induced by the c-jun and activated c-Ha-ras oncogenes. The activated c-Ha-ras oncogene induced AP1-site DNA-binding activity in F9 cells. This induction appeared to be due, at least in part, to the induction of c-jun transcription. Both activated c-Ha-ras and c-jun induced the differentiation of F9 cells to endoderm-like cells. Thus, AP1 appears to play a key role in the initial stage of F9 cell differentiation. 
Pseudolymphoma of the parapharyngeal space. A case report of pseudolymphoma of the parapharyngeal space is presented, together with a literature review of pseudolymphoma and management suggestions for such lesions when they occur in the head and neck. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this represents the first case report of pseudolymphoma presenting within the parapharyngeal space. The key to management of these lesions is based on accurate diagnosis, with differentiation of pseudolymphoma from lymphocytic lymphoma, the disease process which it mimics. 
Effect of level of patient acuity on clinical decision making of critical care nurses with varying levels of knowledge and experience. This study is an examination of the effect of patient acuity on the clinical decision making of critical care nurses (N = 68) completing two computerized clinical simulations. Ventricular tachycardia represented the high-acuity situation and atrial flutter the lower-acuity situation. Clinical decision making was measured by proficiency score, patient outcome (cure or die), and amount of data collected. Analyses of variance were conducted to examine proficiency score and the amount of data collected. Fisher's exact test and the McNemar test of homogeneity of proportions were used to examine patient outcome. In the atrial flutter simulation, proficiency scores were higher (p = 0.000), more dysrhythmias were cured (p less than 0.005), and more data were collected (p = 0.040). Experienced and inexperienced nurses did not differ on proficiency score; however, inexperienced nurses collected more data (p = 0.048) and cured fewer atrial flutter simulations (p = 0.040). Nurses certified in advanced cardiac life support had higher proficiency scores (p = 0.033) and collected fewer data (p = 0.048). 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in a patient with a cadaveric dural graft. We report a 26-year-old woman with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) who had received cadaveric dural material 33 months before the onset of neurologic symptoms. This is the fourth case in which a dural graft was the putative source of the CJD agent. All four cases had the grafting before changes in the sterilization procedure adopted in 1987 to inactivate the CJD agent. 
Intraoperative death during lumbar discectomy. A patient suffered cardiovascular collapse and died during surgery for prolapsed intervertebral disc. At postmortem a tear was found in the abdominal aorta. 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy screening for asymptomatic colorectal disease in patients with and without inguinal hernia. Several studies have evaluated the diagnostic value of flexible sigmoidoscopy for screening asymptomatic patients before hernia repair. All have shown a 16% to 28% incidence of neoplastic (malignant or premalignant) lesions. None of these studies compared a similar group of asymptomatic patients without hernia to determine whether the incidence is increased in patients with hernias. We reviewed 87 consecutive cases of male surgical patients without hernia or any anorectal disease who had flexible sigmoidoscopy between June 1986 and December 1989 (group 1) and compared them with a group of hernia patients that we previously reported (group 2). Patients with stool positive for occult blood were excluded from this study. Examinations in both groups were done under the direct supervision of an attending surgeon (W.W., C.S.C., or J.K.). No significant difference was noted between group 1 and group 2 in mean age (mean 65.6 vs 59.7 years), rate of normal findings (68% vs 63%), and incidence of neoplastic lesions (14% vs 22%). All patients tolerated the procedure well, and there were no complications. 
The natural history of superficial femoral artery stenoses. Since the natural history of specific superficial femoral artery stenoses is not known, we examined progression rates of superficial femoral artery stenoses in 45 lower extremities found when arteriograms were obtained of 38 patients for symptomatic atherosclerotic disease in the opposite leg or abdomen. These initial superficial femoral artery arteriograms were compared with later arteriograms in 25 limbs, duplex scans in 27 limbs, and both modalities in 7 limbs. After a mean interval of 37 months, most superficial femoral artery stenoses (72%) did not progress. However, 12 superficial femoral artery stenoses progressed (28%; mean follow-up, 37 months, including 7 that occluded (17%). Superficial femoral artery stenoses progressed among patients who complained of symptom progression at a rate faster than that among asymptomatic patients (15.6%/year vs 3%/year; p = 0.006). Superficial femoral artery lesions also progressed more rapidly among patients whose contralateral superficial femoral artery was occluded (10%/year vs 1.6%/year; p = 0.04). By multivariate regression analysis, symptom progression and smoking history were predictive of superficial femoral artery stenosis progression. In the seven patients whose superficial femoral artery stenoses progressed to occlusion, the average rate of stenosis progression was 12%/year (maximum predicted rate, 30% per year by 95% confidence limit). These results indicate that superficial femoral artery stenoses usually progress with synchronous symptomatic deterioration. Other than symptom progression, only cumulative smoking history and contralateral superficial femoral artery occlusion could be associated with superficial femoral artery stenosis progression in this small series. 
Hyperglycemia and neurological outcome in patients with head injury. To examine the relationship between serum glucose and the outcome of patients suffering from head injury, the authors retrospectively reviewed the clinical course of 169 patients admitted for treatment to Harborview Medical Center (a regional trauma center). All patients underwent craniotomy for evacuation of intracranial hematoma and/or placement of a subarachnoid bolt for intracranial pressure monitoring under general anesthesia. Patients with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 8 or less had significantly higher serum glucose levels than patients with GCS scores of 12 to 15 (mean +/- standard error of the mean 192 +/- 7 mg/dl vs. 130 +/- 8 mg/dl or 10.7 +/- 0.4 mmol/liter vs. 7.2 +/- 0.4 mmol/liter) (p less than 0.0001). Patients who subsequently remained in a vegetative state or died had significantly higher glucose levels both on admission and postoperatively than patients who had good outcome or moderate disability (217 +/- 12 mg/dl vs. 167 +/- 6 mg/dl or 12.1 +/- 0.7 mmol/liter vs. 9.3 +/- 0.3 mmol/liter on admission, and 240 +/- 16 mg/dl vs. 156 +/- 5 mg/dl or 13.3 +/- 0.9 mmol/liter vs. 8.9 +/- 0.3 mmol/liter postoperatively) (p less than 0.0001). Among the more severely injured patients (GCS score less than or equal to 8), a serum glucose level greater than 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/liter) postoperatively is associated with a significantly worse outcome (p less than 0.01). The authors conclude that severely head-injured patients frequently develop hyperglycemia and the elevated serum glucose level may aggravate ischemic insults and worsen the neurological outcome in such patients. 
Human peripheral blood lymphocytes targeted with bispecific antibodies release cytokines that are essential for inhibiting tumor growth. We have compared the mechanisms by which human PBL targeted with bispecific antibodies either lyse tumor cells or block their growth in culture or in mice. We found that resting PBL were unable to mediate lysis, but were able to block tumor growth. Moreover, targeted PBL were unable to lyse bystander cells, whereas targeted PBL did block the growth of bystander tumor cells in culture and in nude mice. Supernatants from cultures of targeted PBL, or from PBL grown on anti-CD3-coated flasks, blocked the growth of tumor cells in the absence of added effector cells, and antibodies against TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma reversed the inhibition of tumor growth, but had no effect upon cytolysis mediated by targeted by PBL. Our results show that targeted human PBL mediate two different antitumor activities: lysis, which occurs rapidly and requires the direct attachment of the target cell to the cytotoxic cell, and tumor growth inhibition, which is mediated by cytokines released into the medium as a result of receptor cross-linking. The inhibition of bystander tumor growth in mice by targeted PBL suggests that factor release is sufficient to block tumor growth in vivo. Targeted factor release therefore provides a mechanism by which targeted PBL could block the growth of tumor cells in vivo that were not bound by the effector cells, but which were located in the vicinity of tumor cells that were bound. 
Digital artery embolization as a result of fibromuscular dysplasia of the brachial artery. A 74-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with sudden onset of a blue, painful right index finger, and the condition progressed to digital ulceration. The ulcer gradually healed over a period of 2 months. Peripheral pulses, Doppler-derived brachial and radial systolic pressures, and results of an echocardiogram were normal. Digital pulse volume recordings showed obstructive waveforms in all digits of the right hand. Arteriography showed a normal arch and normal innominate, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The midbrachial artery was markedly abnormal and had alternating areas of stenosis and aneurysm formation. Multiple occlusions involved the palmar arch and proper digital arteries. The abnormal brachial artery segment was excised and replaced with an autogenous reversed saphenous-vein conduit. Histologic examination confirmed the lesion to be medial fibromuscular dysplasia. Fibromuscular dysplasia that involves upper extremity arteries is extremely uncommon and rarely presents with digital artery embolization. This case emphasizes the importance of exclusion of proximal reconstructible arterial occlusive disease by means of complete arteriographic examination of patients who were admitted with unilateral finger or hand ischemia. 
Intracranial hemorrhage and hemophilia: case report and management guidelines. Hemophiliacs, as a result of low coagulation factor levels, may suffer spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage. A case of intracranial hemorrhage in a hemophiliac patient with a history of intravenous drug abuse and HIV infection is reported. Factor replacement, airway management, and risks of HIV exposure to emergency department personnel are discussed. 
Cerebral sparganosis: case report and review. Sparganosis is a rare infection caused by a tapeworm larva from the genus Spirometra. A 21-year-old Indian man presented with an 18-month history of episodic confusion followed by a grand mal seizure. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain confirmed the presence of a lesion of the left occipital lobe. Subsequent stereotactic biopsy revealed a plerocercoid larva or sparganum. Surgical resection resulted in cure. This case prompted a review of the literature on central nervous system sparganosis. Altogether, 17 other cases of primary cerebral sparganosis have been reported previously. Seizures, headache, and focal neurologic signs are common at presentation. Neuroradiologic imaging is sensitive but not specific for the identification of lesions. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of cerebrospinal fluid or serum may be diagnostically helpful. However, the diagnosis is generally made after surgical resection, which is usually curative. 
An unusual complication of high dose infusion computerized tomography in a patient with a continent diversion. We describe a myelodysplastic woman with a Kock continent ileal reservoir who suffered parastomal herniation of the pouch following high dose infusion computerized tomography. Prophylactic indwelling catheterization in patients with continent diversion undergoing procedures that induce significant diuresis or involve prolonged distension of the reservoir is probably indicated. 
Analysis of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia for the presence of human papillomavirus DNA. We have analyzed a number of invasive squamous cell carcinomas for the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA using dot blot and Southern blot analysis. Seven of 31 samples (23%) were positive by dot blot and/or Southern blot analysis. In contrast, six of 11 (55%) of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasias contained HPV DNA by dot blot and/or Southern blot hybridization. Less than 50% of the invasive vulvar carcinomas contained detectable HPV DNA. The average age at onset of vulvar carcinoma is higher than that for cervical carcinoma (in which HPV DNA is detected in over 80% of cases). Therefore, the role of HPV in the genesis of vulvar carcinoma may be different from the role of HPV in the genesis of cervical carcinoma. 
Familial nemaline myopathy: case reports. Two siblings of two generations in the same family with nemaline myopathy are described. The disease affects all skeletal muscles, especially the facial muscles, producing a typical facial appearance. The diagnosis was made by light microscopy of histologically stained sections of muscle biopsy. The disease in our patients seems to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner. The purpose of this article is to emphasize the importance of recognition of the facial appearance by maxillofacial surgeons and the appropriate referral of patients for further neurologic examination. 
Failure of motor evoked potentials to predict neurologic outcome in experimental thoracic aortic occlusion. Motor evoked potential monitoring was tested as an alternative to somatosensory evoked potential monitoring in evaluating spinal cord function during thoracic aortic occlusion in dogs. Twenty-seven animals underwent 60 minutes of cross-clamping of the proximal descending thoracic aorta with (n = 18) or without (n = 9) cerebrospinal fluid drainage. Spinal cord blood flow was measured with microspheres, and neurologic outcome was evaluated at 24 hours with Tarlov's scoring system. Cerebrospinal fluid drainage improved neurologic outcome (p less than 0.05). Motor evoked potentials recorded over the lumbar spinal cord were lost in 9 of 20 dogs with ischemic cord injury and were not lost in any of the 7 dogs that were neurologically normal. Somatosensory evoked potential were lost in 19 of 20 paraplegic/paraparetic dogs and lost in 3 of 7 normal dogs (p less than 0.01). After reperfusion, motor evoked potentials returned in all nine neurologically injured dogs that lost the potentials and were still present at 24 hours. Changes in amplitude, latency, or time until loss or return of motor evoked potentials or somatosensory evoked potentials did not predict neurologic injury. Loss of somatosensory evoked potentials had a high sensitivity (95%) but had low specificity (67%) because of peripheral nerve ischemia. Loss of motor evoked potentials recorded from the spinal cord had high specificity (100%) but a low sensitivity (46%) and was therefore not a reliable predictor of neurologic injury. Return of motor evoked potentials during reperfusion did not correlate with functional recovery. Motor evoked potentials stimulated in the cortex and recorded from the spinal cord had low overall accuracy (59%). 
Snoring and the risk of ischemic brain infarction. To determine if a history of snoring is a risk factor for brain infarction, I conducted a case-control study of risk factors for ischemic stroke using 177 consecutive male patients aged 16-60 (mean 49) years with acute brain infarction. For each patient I chose an age-matched (+/- 6 years) male control. Arterial hypertension, coronary heart disease, snoring (habitually or often), and heavy drinking (greater than 300 g/wk) were risk factors in the stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis. The odds ratio of snoring for brain infarction was 2.13. By McNemar's test this association increased strongly if a history of sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, and obesity were all present with snoring (odds ratio 8.00). My study indicates that snoring may be a risk factor for ischemic stroke, possibly because of the higher prevalence of an obstructive sleep apnea syndrome among snorers than nonsnorers. 
Mechanisms of disruption of the articular cartilage surface in inflammation. Neutrophil elastase increases availability of collagen type II epitopes for binding with antibody on the surface of articular cartilage. We recently observed that specific antibodies to type II collagen do not bind in appreciable amounts to the intact surface of articular cartilage, whereas antibodies to the minor collagen types V, VI, and IX do. These results suggest that the outermost cartilage surface layer prevented interaction of the antibodies with the major collagen type in articular cartilage. The present studies were designed to investigate the pathogenic mechanisms involved in the disruption of the cartilage surface layer in inflammatory arthritis. Articular cartilage obtained from rabbits undergoing acute antigen-induced arthritis of 72 h duration showed a significant increase in binding of anti-type II antibody to cartilage surfaces compared with normal control cartilage (P less than 0.01). Augmentation of anti-type II binding was also observed upon in vitro incubation of bovine articular slices or intact rabbit patellar cartilage for 1 h with human polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN), PMN lysates, or purified human PMN elastase. This increase was not inhibited by sodium azide, nor was it enhanced by incubation of cartilage with the strong oxidant hypochlorous acid. Chondrocyte-mediated matrix proteoglycan degradation in cartilage explants cultured in the presence of cytokines failed to increase antibody binding appreciably. The augmentation in antibody binding seen with PMN lysates was inhibited by the nonspecific serine-esterase inhibitor PMSF, but not by the divalent metal chelator EDTA. The elastase-specific inhibitor AAPVCMK also inhibited most of the PMN-induced increase in antibody binding, whereas the cathepsin G-specific inhibitor GLPCMK was much less effective. Incubation of intact cartilage with purified human PMN elastase indicated that this serine esterase could account for the increase in anti-type II collagen antibody binding to intact cartilage surfaces. These studies suggest that in an inflammatory response, PMN-derived elastase degrades the outer layer of articular cartilage, exposing epitopes on type II collagen. They also help clarify the pathogenic mechanisms involved in early articular cartilage damage in inflammatory joint diseases. 
Duplex sonography in splenomegaly. The aetiology of splenomegaly is seldom clear from either clinical or imaging assessment of the spleen. In the majority of cases sonographic assessment of the spleen produces a homogeneous enlargement of variable echodensity, but with very poor correlation with pathology. A study has been undertaken to assess the Doppler characteristics of the splenic artery in splenomegaly, excluding cases of portal hypertension in an attempt to provide further diagnostic information. Duplex assessment of 18 normal subjects and 10 patients with splenomegaly due to five different causes was undertaken. Analysis of waveform, peak frequency and pulsatility index were compared and failed to demonstrate any significant change. In the normal subject there is a broad systolic spectrum related to the tortuosity of the splenic artery, with persistence of forward flow throughout diastole, a reflection of the low peripheral resistance of the spleen. In splenomegaly the broad systolic spectrum is unchanged, since vessel tortuosity persists. Pathological and physiological assessment of the spleen in splenomegaly shows that a low resistance circulation persists, explaining maintenance of the diastolic flow pattern in splenomegaly. Increased blood flow to the spleen in splenomegaly occurs either as a result of an increase in vessel diameter or an increase in flow velocity, or a variable combination of the two which does not seem to be governed by specific pathology. An increase in peak frequency in some cases reflected some increase in flow velocity but provided no useful correlation. Analysis of the pulsatility index supported the above findings without adding further information. 
Reflex anal dilatation: effect of parting the buttocks on anal function in normal subjects and patients with anorectal and spinal disease. Anal dilatation in response to gentle parting of the buttocks has been advocated as a sign of sexual abuse in children, but nothing is known of the physiology of this response or its existence in normal subjects, in patients with spinal disease, and in patients with a weak sphincter and whether it can be elicited after training. To answer these questions we investigated the effect of parting the buttocks on anal function. Combined anal manometry and electromyography was conducted in six normal subjects (five men, one woman, aged 19-53 years), in 18 patients with faecal incontinence (three men, 15 women, aged 30-80 years), and in seven paraplegic patients (six men, one woman, aged 25-36 years), in four of whom the posterior sacral roots had been cut. Parting the buttocks in normal subjects reduced the pressure in the anal canal from 102 (20) to 14 (3) cm H2O (mean (SEM), p less than 0.00001), but did not cause the anus to gape. This drop in pressure was associated with increased electrical activity in the external anal sphincter. Normal subjects could consciously relax the external anal sphincter and reduce the anal pressure but not so as to result in anal gaping during traction on the buttocks, even after anal dilatation. Stimulation of the anal lining by moving a probe in and out of the anal canal increased the activity of the external anal sphincter, raising anal pressures. Paraplegic patients who had lost conscious control of their external sphincters showed anal gaping when the buttocks were parted. 
Maple syrup urine disease in Mennonites. Evidence that the Y393N mutation in E1 alpha impedes assembly of the E1 component of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex. Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD) in Mennonites is associated with homozygosity for a T to A transversion in the E1 alpha gene of the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex. This causes a tyrosine to asparagine substitution at position 393 (Y393N). To assess the functional significance of this missense mutation, we have carried out transfection studies using E1 alpha-deficient MSUD lymphoblasts (Lo) as a host. The level of E1 beta subunit is also greatly reduced in Lo cells. Efficient episomal expression in lymphoblasts was achieved using the EBO vector. The inserts employed were chimeric bovine-human cDNAs which encode mitochondrial import competent E1 alpha subunit precursors. Transfection with normal E1 alpha cDNA into Lo cells restored decarboxylation activity of intact cells. Western blotting showed that both E1 alpha and E1 beta subunits were markedly increased. Introduction of Y393N mutant E1 alpha cDNA failed to produce any measurable decarboxylation activity. Mutant E1 alpha subunit was expressed at a normal level, however, the E1 beta subunit was undetectable. These results provide the first evidence that Y393N mutation is the cause of MSUD. Moreover, this mutation impedes the assembly of E1 alpha with E1 beta into a stable alpha 2 beta 2 structure, resulting in the degradation of the free E1 beta subunit. 
In vivo regulation of virulence in Pseudomonas aeruginosa associated with genetic rearrangement. A chronic pulmonary infection model was used to induce conversion to the mucoid phenotype by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO. At 6 months after initial inoculation, organisms isolated from infected lungs demonstrated the mucoid phenotype. Significant decreases (P less than .01) were seen in the levels of exotoxin A, exoenzyme S, phospholipase C, and pyochelin produced by the mucoid P. aeruginosa PAO rat lung isolates that returned to parental levels after reversion to the nonmucoid phenotype. In addition, lipopolysaccharide of the mucoid PAO lung isolates failed to react with serotype B-specific antibody in contrast to the original PAO and the revertant PAO organisms. Digestion of chromosomal DNA and hybridization with P. aeruginosa virulence factor-specific probes demonstrated that conversion to the mucoid phenotype was associated with rearrangement of chromosomal DNA upstream of the exotoxin A gene. Analysis of DNA from revertant organisms revealed hybridization patterns identical to the original PAO organism. 
Delay to invasive investigation and revascularisation for coronary heart disease in south west Thames region: a two tier system? OBJECTIVES--To assess the accessibility of invasive investigation and revascularisation procedures in the management of coronary heart disease in a defined population in the South West Thames region over 10 years, and to audit the performance of both the NHS and the private sector. DESIGN--Analysis of all patient referrals to the regional cardiothoracic centres for coronary heart disease during 1979-88. SETTING--North West Surrey District Health Authority, which had a mean catchment population of 205,000 during the study period. The health district is one of the 13 in the South West Thames region. PATIENTS--823 patients aged 34-80 years with suspected coronary heart disease, 204 of whom were referred for private investigation and 619 were referred within the NHS. The NHS referrals were mainly to St Thomas's Hospital during 1979-83 and to St George's Hospital during 1984-8. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Difference in time to investigation and intervention between the NHS and the private patients. RESULTS--After some variation in earlier years the mean (SD, range) waiting times from referral to cardiac catheterisation and then revascularisation increased progressively in NHS patients, to 115.8 (126.5, 22-482) days and 305.9 (164.4, 22-620) days respectively in 1988. There was no significant change over the 10 years in waiting times within the private sector, with a mean of 17.2 (18.2, 1-62) days to angiography and 22.8 (14.5, 2-152) days to surgery. Fifteen people on the NHS waiting list died of probable cardiac causes. No people on the private waiting list died. CONCLUSIONS--The performance of the NHS system in South West Thames region in response to emergency referral is adequate. The waiting time to routine investigation and revascularisation is prolonged and seems to be worsening despite increased investigative and surgical activity by the regional centre. The delays may subject NHS patients to unnecessary risk, which is not shared by private patients. 
Prevention of retrovirus infection after injury with contaminated instruments: an experimental study. Owing to similarities between human immunodeficiency virus and feline retroviruses, the feline model was chosen for the study to investigate the efficacy of timely topical treatment of accidental human immunodeficiency virus infection in the operating room. Cats were subcutaneously inoculated with either feline leukemia virus or feline immunodeficiency virus. An effort was made to neutralize the virus in loco either by infiltration of the inoculation site with povidone-iodine or with monoclonal antibodies, or by cauterization and excision. The animals were periodically monitored for feline leukemia virus antigens or for feline immunodeficiency virus antibodies. The results indicated that in the feline model, the development of generalized virus infection may be prevented by local measures if applied immediately. 
Nuclear exercise testing and the management of coronary artery disease. Three hundred seventy-eight patients referred for nuclear exercise testing were classified using demographics and symptoms into low, intermediate, and high coronary disease likelihood categories. These likelihood groups constituted 15%, 41%, and 15% of referrals, respectively. Patients with prior infarction or disease at angiography (proven disease) made up the remaining 29% of patients. Only 2% of low likelihood patients had typical angina, but physicians diagnosed coronary disease in 64%, prescribed antianginal therapy in 50%, and were considering catheterization in 28% of these patients, all as frequently as for patients with intermediate or high likelihoods for disease. Patients with proven disease were treated differently in that 79% were receiving antianginal therapy and 56% were considered for catheterization (p less than 0.001). Nuclear exercise test results reduced the perceived need for catheterization in all groups, on average by 49%. Nuclear exercise tests are a standard by which patients are managed, sometimes substituting for the traditional role of the history in physician decision making. 
Arteriovenous malformation in meningothelial meningioma: case report. An unusual association of a meningioma and an arteriovenous malformation is reported. A 68-year-old man developed left homonymous hemianopsia, left hemiparesis, and gaze palsy. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a right occipital mass lesion containing multiple signal-void areas with tubular and honeycomb appearance, suggesting a marked vascular component. An angiogram showed abnormal vasculature in the mass supplied by the posterior cerebral artery and a dural arteriovenous malformation on the tentorium. Neuropathological examination after total removal of the mass revealed a meningothelial meningioma including major portions of an arteriovenous malformation that extended from the dura and leptomeninges, through the meningioma, and into the occipital lobe, where the tumor was located. 
Role of vasopressin in salt-induced hypertension in baroreceptor-denervated uninephrectomized rabbits. To elucidate the contributions of renal, humoral, and arterial baroreceptor reflex components to salt-induced hypertension, we administered 10% NaCl intravenously for 10 days to sinoaortic-denervated rabbits with unilateral nephrectomy (n = 7), sinoaortic-denervated rabbits with intact kidneys (n = 7), and sham-operated sinoaortic-denervated rabbits with unilateral nephrectomy (n = 7). Serial changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate, and blood pressure variability were recorded. In sinoaortic-denervated rabbits with unilateral nephrectomy, MAP increased significantly from 109 +/- 2 to 124 +/- 3 mm Hg (day 4) and remained elevated for the rest of the experiment. This elevation of MAP was accompanied by a reduction in the standard deviation of MAP, with significant elevations in plasma vasopressin, norepinephrine, and atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations and in sodium retention. In the other groups, there were no significant changes in these vasoactive hormones. In the sham-operated sinoaortic-denervated rabbits with unilateral nephrectomy, sodium retention was similar to that of sinoaortic-denervated rabbits with unilateral nephrectomy. Continuous infusion (1 microgram/kg/hr) of a V1 antagonist prevented the elevation of blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine, the accumulation of sodium, and the reduction of blood pressure lability, whereas a bolus injection (10 micrograms/kg) on day 4 reduced blood pressure from 128 +/- 3 to 115 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than 0.005). These results imply that vasopressin plays a crucial role in the expression of salt-induced hypertension in rabbits with compromised baroreceptor and renal function. 
Giant adult malignant sacrococcygeal teratoma. Successful treatment by combined abdominosacral resection. This report describes the successful removal of the largest adult sacrococcygeal teratoma (18.75 kg) the authors could find on record. The patient was 58 years of age. The tumor had been present at birth and had been biopsied at the time of her cesarean section 34 years earlier without further treatment. Special planning was necessary for moving and positioning the patient for operation to prevent injury due to the size and weight of the tumor. A combined abdominosacral resection with preliminary ligation of the internal iliac arteries and a diversionary colostomy were performed without difficulty or undue blood loss. The defect was closed primarily and drained. The tumor proved to be malignant on pathologic examination. 
Ultrasonic decalcification of the aortic annulus during aortic valve replacement. Aortic valve replacement for calcifica aortic stenosis requires meticulous debridement of the aortic annulus to effect optimal valve seating. Since 1987, we have used ultrasonic energy to debride the aortic annulus during aortic valve replacement in 56 patients. In our experience, ultrasonic debridement of the annulus is superior to traditional methods of debridement, affords improved seating of the valve, and may allow placement of a larger valve. Our follow-up ranges from 2 to 32 months (mean follow-up, 13 +/- 9 months) with 0% incidence of paravalvular leak or valve failure. We advocate the use of ultrasonic debridement as an adjunctive tool in aortic valve replacement. 
Unilateral lumbar fusion. Unilateral fusion of the lumbar spine is rarely necessary or indicated. However, in patients with a "far-out syndrome" requiring decompression or in cases where unilateral posterior element resection is necessary for any reason, it may be both necessary and indicated. This unilateral destabilization effectively removes one leg of the tripod, rendering that intervertebral joint potentially unstable. The charts and radiographs of 13 patients (seven men, six women) with an average age of 60 years (range, 25 to 76) who underwent unilateral fusion were retrospectively reviewed. Follow-up time ranged from 12 1/2 to 2 years with a median follow-up of 8 years. Eleven of the fusions were at one level, and two were at two levels. Seven patients had a far-out syndrome secondary to degenerative scoliosis; four were secondary to spondylolisthesis. Two patients had an osteoid osteoma involving a pedicle. A paraspinal approach was used in the majority of patients. Autologous bone graft was used in all patients. Unilateral pedicle screw fixation was used in the last patient in the series. The fusion rate was 85% (11/13). Three patients were smokers, two of whom developed pseudarthrosis. Disc space height did not appear to affect fusion rate. There was no progression of slip noted in any of the patients. One complication was noted in this group: a moderate postoperative infection, which cleared spontaneously. 
Double compartment hydrocephalus in an adult. A case of double-compartment hydrocephalus in an adult is presented. Although this entity is infrequently noted in children, it is diagnosed even more rarely in the adult population. A discussion of the spectrum of abnormal cerebrospinal fluid dynamics of the 4th ventricle and treatment options are presented. 
Neurophysiologic assessment of the anal sphincters. One hundred twenty consecutive patients with either fecal incontinence (60 patients), chronic constipation (41 patients), or idiopathic intractable pelvic pain (19 patients) were prospectively assessed. Patients underwent concentric needle electromyography (EMG), bilateral pudendal nerve terminal motor latency evaluation, anorectal manometry, and cinedefecography. The most common EMG finding in patients with fecal incontinence was decreased recruitment of motor units with squeezing and polyphasic motor unit potentials; these are consistent with an injury pattern. The most common EMG finding in the constipated patients was paradoxical puborectalis contraction. This latter abnormality was also a frequent finding in patients with rectal pain, as was prolongation of pudendal nerve latency. Paradoxical puborectalis contraction was diagnosed more frequently with EMG than with cinedefecography. Inter-examination correlation was best in the incontinent group between EMG and manometry. Cinedefecography had poor correlation with EMG in all patient groups but was valuable in the detection of additional pathology such as rectoanal intussusception and anterior rectocele. Electromyography including pudendal nerve terminal motor latency assessment is a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of disorders of evacuation. The information it yields is complementary to that offered by more routine physiologic examinations. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome: surgical treatment using the Paine retinaculatome. The operative technique for the relief of carpal tunnel syndrome has remained controversial. This report presents the results of 445 patients or 577 hands operated on using a transverse technique that varies little from that described by Paine and Polyzoidis. The patients were followed for 9 months to 3 years. In addition to the data received from follow-up visits, a questionnaire was sent to each patient for evaluation of their results. All surgery was performed under local anesthesia, sometimes with intravenous supplement. Of the 445 patients, 313 had unilateral operations and 132 had bilateral operations at one sitting. Postoperatively, normal hand function was achieved in 59.4% of patients in 1 week or less. Of the 577 hands operated on, 535 (92.7%) exhibited satisfactory results from surgery. No patient required postoperative physical therapy or splinting. There were no injuries to the median nerve or any of its branches. 
Motor responses after transcranial electrical stimulation of cerebral hemispheres with a degenerated pyramidal tract. Motor responses were evoked in the thenar muscles by transcranial electrical cortex stimulation in 5 stroke patients with an isolated lacuna in the internal capsule, in whom wallerian degeneration of the pyramidal tract was demonstrated in vivo. Suprathreshold stimulation of the affected hemisphere elicited bilateral motor responses; whereas, stimulation at identical intensities of the undamaged hemisphere yielded strictly unilateral responses in the contralateral hand, like the responses of all normal control subjects. Focused magnetic brain stimulation was performed in 1 patient and gave identical results. Because muscular excitability to cortical stimulation is preserved in spite of pyramidal tract disruption, other pathways must bypass the lesion. Because of the bilaterality of responses, we suggest polysynaptic corticoreticulospinal connections. 
Treatment of constitutional growth delay in prepubertal boys with a prolonged course of low dose oxandrolone. Forty six prepubertal boys who had constitutional growth delay were treated with oxandrolone. Mean age at the onset of treatment was 11.9 years (range 9.0-14.0) and bone age delay was 1.9 'years'. The dose of oxandrolone used was a mean of 0.05 mg/kg (range 0.03-0.18) for a mean of 0.9 years (range 0.2-3.6). Height velocity increased from a mean (SD) before treatment of 4.0 (1.0) to 7.5 (1.2) cm/year with oxandrolone. Growth rate was sustained at 7.6 (2.2) cm/year in the period after treatment. Those boys who attained a testicular volume of 4 ml or greater at the end of the treatment period had the most pronounced sustained growth acceleration. Height for bone age SD score did not alter significantly from a mean of -1.0 before treatment to -1.2 after treatment. Oxandrolone is a safe and effective treatment for prepubertal boys with constitutional growth delay. 
Use of duplex scanning in the diagnosis of arteria profunda femoris stenosis. To evaluate the accuracy of duplex scanning in diagnosing arteria profunda femoris stenoses in patients with concomitant superficial femoral artery occlusions, 123 femoral artery bifurcations were examined in 103 patients. Peak systolic and time-averaged maximal flow velocity parameters were measured in the arteria profunda femoris and compared with independently performed angiography. For detecting stenoses greater than 30% diameter reduction (50% by area) of the arteria profunda femoris, duplex scanning had a sensitivity of 91% and 96%, a specificity of 85% and 98%, a positive predictive value of 86% and 98%, and a negative predictive value of 91% and 96%, for a peak systolic velocity of 180 cm/sec and more, and for a time-averaged maximal velocity of 50 cm/sec and more in the arteria profunda femoris, respectively. The day-to-day variability for peak systolic and time-averaged maximal velocity parameters was low with correlation coefficients between velocity measurements on both days of 0.96 and 0.98 (n = 20), respectively. In 10 patients with arteria profunda femoris stenoses and superficial femoral artery occlusions, undergoing percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of arteria profunda femoris stenosis, the duplex scan revealed a reduction in stenotic peak systolic velocity from 330 +/- 84 to 163 +/- 50 cm/sec and a decrease in stenotic time-averaged maximal velocity from 156 +/- 47 to 54 +/- 17 cm/sec after the interventional procedure. These results show that peak systolic and time-averaged maximal velocities are accurate parameters to detect significant arteria profunda femoris stenosis in patients with superficial femoral artery occlusions. 
Hemobilia due to vasculitis of the gall bladder in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease. A 30-year-old woman with mixed connective tissue disease presented with acute abdominal pain and signs of blood loss. At cholecystectomy she appeared to have lost a considerable amount of blood into the biliary tract due to bleeding of the gall bladder. Microscopic examination showed vasculitis of the gall bladder wall. Hemobilia has not been described before as a complication in mixed connective tissue disease. 
Southern blot analysis in a case of Richter's syndrome. Evidence for a postrearrangement heavy chain gene deletion associated with the altered phenotype. Richter's syndrome (RS) can be defined as the emergence of an aggressive lymphoma in patients suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The authors performed immunophenotypic and Southern blot analysis of the peripheral blood and tissue specimen of a patient with RS. Using immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver staining techniques and a panel of monoclonal antibodies, the authors found that the large cells characteristic of RS showed an altered immunophenotype as compared with the CLL cells and did not express mu heavy chain. Southern blot analysis revealed identical kappa light chain rearrangements in both tumoral cell populations consistent with a common clonal origin. Using the JH probe and several restriction enzymes, the authors also found evidence for a postrearrangement deletion of the heavy chain mu gene. These findings suggest that in this case of RS, a deletion of the heavy chain mu gene resulted in loss of mu expression by the larger cells that were characteristic of RS and was associated with their altered phenotype. 
Arterial insufficiency in hemodialysis access procedures: correction by "banding" technique. Arterial insufficiency distal to an antecubital access is fortunately an infrequent but disturbing and often debilitating complication resulting in suboptimal access. During an 8 1/2-year period, 335 vascular access procedures were performed, 108 of which were antecubital brachiocephalic Gore-Tex conduits. Of these Gore-Tex conduits, 1.8% (2/108) had developed symptoms of vascular insufficiency 2 to 3 1/2 months after such access surgery. As previously published, arterial steal after the creation of an AV fistula could be corrected by the placement of an interposition Gore-Tex loop that would cure the problem and save the access. We have presented a procedure to correct a steal syndrome once a Gore-Tex conduit is already in place. Proximal banding and distal ligation with division of the cephalic vein below an end-to-side Gore-Tex loop is a simple surgical solution. It is not only curative but the procedure also maintains the existing Gore-Tex graft as a sustained avenue for access. 
Clinical significance of the V-shaped space in the subluxed shoulder of hemiplegics. Recently, it has been proposed that shoulder subluxation in hemiplegia is accompanied by 1) the appearance of a V-shaped articular configuration occurring between the humeral head and glenoid fossa and 2) the presence of chronic pain. The main purpose of this study was to investigate the validity of these statements. We evaluated 40 hemiplegic subjects over 3 months. Radiographs of the affected and nonaffected shoulders were taken at both a frontal plane (0 degree) and a 45 degree incidence. From these patients, subluxed (n = 19) and nonsubluxed (n = 21) groups were formed. Pain was evaluated using the Present Pain Intensity index of the McGill Pain Questionnaire. On these x-ray films, measurements were taken of the V-shaped space, abduction of the arm, and rotation of the scapula. The statistical analysis (analysis of variance for repeated measures) contrasted the results obtained from the nonaffected side with those from the affected side over the 3 months studied. At the 45 degree angle, which better exposes the articular configuration of the shoulder, the difference in the V angle between the affected and nonaffected shoulders was significant for the subluxed group (p less than 0.01), indicating that such a V-shaped space can be identified. The measures taken also indicate that a downward subluxation of the humeral head occurs relative to the scapula without any systematic abduction of the humerus or downward rotation of the scapula. None of the results obtained from the frontal plane x-ray films was significant. Finally, no significant relation was found between subluxation and shoulder pain. 
Telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma of the extremities. Results in 17 patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Seventeen patients with telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma (TOS) of the extremities were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, according to two different protocols. Preoperatively, the patients received high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) and cisplatinum (CPD) (HD-MTX/CPD) and doxorubicin. CPD was delivered intraarterially, the other drugs intravenously. Limb-salvage surgery was performed in 12 instances, and five patients were treated with amputation. Postoperative chemotherapy was tailored according to the grade of chemotherapy-induced necrosis. In 13 cases (86%), the resultant grade of necrosis was greater than 90% (good responders). The mean follow-up interval was 3.5 years with a range of 18 to 78 months. Fourteen patients (82%) remained continuously disease-free, while three patients developed lung metastases. Two of these died because of uncontrolled disease, whereas the third patient is alive and disease-free after metastasectomy. No local recurrences were observed. These results are better than those observed in 215 contemporary cases of conventional osteosarcoma treated with the same protocols. This study confirms that TOS is not a uniformly lethal tumor as suggested by prior reports. By employing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, a high percentage of patients with TOS can be cured, and in most of them, a limb-sparing surgery is possible and safe. 
High-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate versus estramustine in therapy-resistant prostatic cancer: a randomised study. A series of 105 patients with metastatic prostatic cancer, having progressed on first-line hormonal treatment, were randomised to high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) 1000 mg i.m. daily for 15 days, followed by 1000 mg weekly (53 patients), or to estramustine 280 mg per os twice daily (52 patients). The treatment was discontinued because of side effects in 3 of 51 evaluable MPA-treated patients and in 8 of 51 evaluable estramustine-treated patients. Progression-free survival was short in both groups and no statistically significant difference between them was observed. After 1 year, 70% of the patients had died and there was no statistically significant difference between the 2 treatments in the cumulative observed survival rates. According to modified SPCG criteria, remissions lasting from 12 to 56 weeks were noted in 13 MPA-treated patients and in 4 estramustine-treated patients. This difference was statistically significant. After cross-over, 6 of 33 patients in the MPA group had a remission compared with 1 of 24 in the estramustine group. It was concluded that the response rate, considering both subjective and objective response criteria, was better with MPA and the side effects were fewer. 
Evidence for alpha 1-adrenoreceptor hyperresponsiveness in hypotensive cirrhotic patients with ascites. Cirrhosis with ascites is often characterized by arterial hypotension associated with increased plasma norepinephrine levels. Clinical evidence suggests a decreased sensitivity to norepinephrine in this clinical setting, indicating a potential derangement of alpha 1 adrenoreceptors. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the reactivity of the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor, using phenylephrine, a selective alpha 1 receptor agonist. First, we evaluated the pupillar response to the intraconjunctival administration of the agonist. Hypotensive cirrhotic patients showed a trend to a more marked and prolonged response, compared with age-matched healthy controls. Second, we studied the response of alpha 1-adrenoreceptors in the peripheral vasculature by administering iv phenylephrine to a similar group of patients. A significantly greater and longer lasting pressor response was observed in hypotensive cirrhotic patients (p less than 0.0001 vs. healthy controls). Our results indicate that in this group of patients, there is a rather peculiar situation, characterized by alpha 1-adrenoreceptor hyperresponsiveness in the presence of high levels of circulating norepinephrine. This finding could be related to biochemical abnormalities within the peripheral sympathetic nervous system endings. 
Hepatitis C virus infection and chronic liver disease in children with leukemia in long-term remission. Antibody to the recently identified hepatitis C virus (HCV) was investigated in sera of 50 leukemic children who had chronic liver disease (CLD), observed for 1 to 12.6 years after therapy withdrawal. All patients were tested for anti-HCV at regular intervals: Ortho-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test was performed in all cases. Reactive sera were also tested by recombinant immunoblotting assay to define the specificity of the results obtained by ELISA. Twelve cases (24%) were persistently positive (group A), 11 (22%) were transiently anti-HCV+ positive (group B), and 27 (54%) were negative. Mean SGPT peak during follow-up was significantly higher in group A (P = .014, A v B and P less than .00001, A v C). SGPT normalized off-therapy in 1 of 12 cases (group A), 10 of 11 (group B), and 19 of 27 (group C) (P = .0004, A v B and P = .012, A v C). Accordingly, liver histology, available in 37 patients, showed signs of chronic hepatitis in all patients in group A while most patients in group B and C had less severe liver lesions. These results indicate that HCV plays a significant role in the etiology of chronic hepatitis in leukemic patients and that persistent anti-HCV activity correlates with a more severe CLD, which could jeopardize the final prognosis of children cured of leukemia. 
Superselective embolization of superior gluteal artery pseudoaneurysms following intramuscular injection: case report. Two bleeding superior gluteal artery pseudoaneurysms occurred in a patient with advanced malignant disease following an intramuscular injection. This was diagnosed by angiography and successfully managed by superselective embolization. This avoided further surgery and no additional complication from the pseudoaneurysm occurred up to the time of the patient's demise. 
Sternal wound infections and use of internal mammary artery grafts. Previous studies have provided conflicting evidence as to whether an increased risk of mediastinitis is associated with use of the internal mammary artery as a coronary bypass graft. In this study the effects of internal mammary artery grafts on wound complications were analyzed in a prospective, nonrandomized fashion. At New York University Medical Center from January 1985 through May 1988, 2356 patients underwent isolated coronary revascularization. Among these patients 1394 received one or more internal mammary artery grafts (group I) and 962 had vein grafts only (group II). Group I had a mean age of 59.5 years versus 67.7 years in group II; diabetes was equally present in both groups (22.7% versus 24.7%). Operative mortality rate was 1.3% in group I and 5.6% in group II. Sternal infection was significantly more prevalent in group I (2.2%, 31/1394) than in group II (0.8%, 8/962). Multivariate analysis revealed that aortic crossclamp time, use of a single internal mammary artery graft, use of a double mammary graft, and diabetes were associated with increased risk of sternal infection. The use of bilateral internal mammary artery grafting doubled the odds ratio of the risk compared with use of a single mammary graft, and the combination of diabetes and double internal mammary artery grafts increased the odds ratio 13.9-fold. Patients with an internal mammary artery graft who had sternal infection had a longer period of hospitalization than patients without a mammary artery graft who had sternal infection. We conclude that the risk of sternal infection is increased by the use of an internal mammary artery graft, especially use of double mammary grafts in the presence of diabetes. 
Socioeconomic status and cancer survival. Survival data from eight Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) protocols were examined for patients with lung cancer (N = 961), multiple myeloma (N = 577), gastric cancer (N = 231), pancreatic cancer (N = 174), breast cancer (N = 87), and Hodgkin's disease (N = 58). After accounting for differences in survival rate attributable to type of cancer, initial performance status, age, and 14 other protocol-specific prognostic indicators, the additional predictive value of socioeconomic status (SES) was evaluated. Race (white v non-white) was not a significant predictor of survival time, but income and education were. People with lower annual incomes (below $5,000 per year in the years 1977 to 1981) and those with lower educational level (grade school only) showed survival times significantly shorter than those with higher income or education, respectively. These survival differences were associated with, but could not be fully explained by, severity of disease at initial presentation. SES continued to exert a small but significant impact on cancer survival, even after controlling for all known prognostic variables. Economically and educationally disadvantaged cancer patients may require treatment programs that include education about treatment and compliance, even after an initial diagnosis is made and treatment is initiated. Because SES is related to survival independent of all known prognostic variables, it should be included in the data bases of clinical trial groups to provide a more accurate test of the effectiveness of new therapies. 
Extracapsular spread of squamous cell carcinoma in neck lymph nodes: prognostic factor of laryngeal cancer. Fifty-two patients with laryngeal cancer who underwent radical neck dissections were studied to provide further information on the prognosis of various clinical and histopathological parameters. Extracapsular spread (ECS) was found in 31% of patients with N1 nodes, and in 60% of patients with histopathologically positive nodes. The 5-year survival rate of histopathological findings was as follows: patients with no pathological evidence of neck metastasis (81%), patients with neck metastasis confined to the lymph node (no ECS) (76%), and patients with ECS (17%). The difference in survival rate between patients with no ECS and patients with ECS was statistically significant (P = .001). Staging classification, T-stage classification, the number of malignant nodes, the diameter of malignant nodes, and combined therapy had no prognostic importance. The most significant factor was the presence of extracapsular spread. 
Terazosin: pharmacokinetics and the effect of age and dose on the incidence of adverse events. Terazosin is a new, long-acting, selective, postsynaptic alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist with a chemical structure similar to that of prazosin. In this article the pharmacokinetics of terazosin are reviewed, and the incidence of adverse events in a dose-response study and a meta-analysis of 20 placebo-controlled trials involving a total of 1814 patients is presented. Peak plasma concentrations of terazosin are achieved 1 to 2 hours after oral administration. The relatively long half-life of terazosin (12 hours) enables it to be administered in a once-a-day regimen. Dose and plasma levels of terazosin show a linear relationship. Terazosin is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration. The pharmacokinetics of terazosin are not significantly affected by food, age, hypertension, or renal impairment. Adverse events after the administration of terazosin are usually minor and not age related. The incidence of syncope after therapeutic dosages of terazosin is minimal. Terazosin's effectiveness, combined with its pharmacokinetics, safety profile, and potentially favorable lipid effect, makes it a highly appropriate choice for antihypertensive therapy. 
Positron emission tomography suggests that the rate of progression of idiopathic parkinsonism is slow. We performed sequential positron emission tomography scans with 6-[18F]fluoro-L-dopa in 9 patients with idiopathic parkinsonism and 7 age-matched normal control subjects to compare changes in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway over time. The mean interval between the scans was 3.3 years for the group with idiopathic parkinsonism and 3.9 years for the control subjects. The scans were analyzed by calculating the ratio of striatal to background radioactivity. Both groups showed statistically significant reductions of striatal uptake over the interval. The rate of decrease was almost identical in each group (p = 0.6). We infer that the usual rate of loss of integrity of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway in patients with idiopathic parkinsonism is slow and the rate of change between the two groups was comparable. 
Aggressive peripheral T-cell lymphomas containing Epstein-Barr viral DNA: a clinicopathologic and molecular analysis. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been shown to be associated with posttransplant lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, and T-cell lymphoma, in addition to African Burkitt's lymphoma. In a retrospective study of 56 consecutive cases of T-cell lymphoma, EBV DNA was found by Southern blot and in situ DNA hybridization in 10 (20%) of 50 peripheral T-cell lymphomas, but in none of six cases of T-lymphoblastic lymphoma. Peripheral T-cell lymphomas containing EBV DNA could be subclassified into three categories according to histology and immunophenotypic studies: (1) T-cell lymphoma of the helper phenotype, five cases. Two cases had histologic features resembling angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy (AILD). (2) T-cell lymphoma of the cytotoxic/suppressor phenotype, four cases. AILD-like features could also be recognized in two cases. Reed-Sternberg-like giant cells were identified in three cases designated Hodgkin-like T-cell lymphoma. (3) Angiocentric T-cell lymphoma or lymphomatoid granulomatosis in one case, initially affecting the skin and nose; no T-cell subset could be defined. Six of the eight EBV DNA-positive patients tested for serum EBV antibodies had elevated titers of IgG antiviral capsid antigen (greater than 640) and/or early antigen (greater than 10). From combined studies of Southern blot hybridization by using EBV termini fragment probe and in situ DNA hybridization, the EBV genomes appeared to be clonotypically proliferated in the neoplastic T cells. The patients in all three groups usually had prolonged fever preceding the diagnosis, hepatosplenomegaly, an aggressive clinical course, and poor response to chemotherapy; nine died with a median survival of only 8 months. We propose that these EBV-associated aggressive T-cell lymphomas, like human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus-positive T-cell lymphoma, have characteristic clinicopathologic features and should be treated as a separate disease entity. 
Seizures in series: similarities between seizures of the west and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes. We observed seizures resembling infantile spasms in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS). Infantile spasms, the type of seizures that occurs in patients who have West syndrome, have been well characterized by video-EEG studies and typically occur as a series of sudden generalized flexor or extensor jerks. The seizure types that occur in LGS have not been as clearly delineated. Some patients with West syndrome (WS) in early infancy later develop LGS. Using intensive video-EEG monitoring, we evaluated 14 LGS patients who had seizures that occurred in series. Clinically, the seizures greatly resembled infantile spasms, and the ictal EEG changes were identical to those that occur with infantile spasms. These findings expand the number of features known to be shared by these two syndromes and strengthen the hypothesis that the two syndromes represent age-related manifestations of similar epileptogenic processes. 
Genetic susceptibility to Parkinson's disease. Genetic factors clearly cause Lewy-body Parkinson's disease (PD) in a subset of autosomal-dominant families. However, most cases of PD are sporadic. The two most likely models of four discussed for sporadic PD are the reduced penetrance model and the multifactorial model. Sporadic PD is likely to be caused by the combined effect of environmental precipitating factors and genetic susceptibility factors. Because the number of major genetic factors is likely to be small, these hypotheses can be tested and genetic factors located using linkage mapping techniques. The affected pair analysis methods are especially suited to PD. Finding the genetic susceptibility factors for PD is important because this may be the fastest way to identify the environmental precipitating factors and because it may lead to prevention of PD. Because of the usefulness of identifying genetic susceptibility factors for PD, we are carrying out linkage studies in a group of 16 large autosomal-dominant families with PD and more than 300 living affected PD pairs. 
Natural course of clinically localized prostate adenocarcinoma in men less than 70 years old. A total of 61 patients, less than 70 years old at diagnosis, with clinical stage T1-2, NX, M0, cytologically well or moderately differentiated prostate adenocarcinoma was prospectively included in a surveillance study. Median patient age was 63 years (range 38 to 69 years). Mean followup was 96 +/- 24 months. The probability of local progression to stage T3 disease after 5 and 10 years was 49 and 72%, respectively. The probability of metastases developing after 5 and 10 years was 8 and 23%, respectively. The probability of dying of prostate adenocarcinoma was 2 and 8%, respectively. Moderately differentiated cancer progressed locally significantly faster than well differentiated disease. The relative number of patients who had metastases or died of prostate adenocarcinoma found in our study was comparable to the relative numbers reported after radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy. Therefore, deferred therapy may be an alternative to active therapy in patients with clinically localized prostate adenocarcinoma and with a life expectancy of less than 10 years. 
Carcinoid tumors: the relationship between clinical presentation and the extent of disease. In this study the relationship between the initial clinical presentation and the extent of tumor progression was determined in a group of 31 patients with carcinoid tumors. The proportion of patients with symptomatic tumors was similar to those patients with carcinoid tumors that were incidentally found (55% versus 45%; SE = 0.089). Symptoms were caused by metastatic tumor in nine (30%) of the patients and by local effects of the primary tumor in eight (26%) of the patients. The patients with symptoms had a significantly increased frequency of metastatic disease, even when the symptoms were due to the primary tumor, compared to patients with no symptoms (76% versus 7%; p less than 0.001). Tumor size was related to the presence of symptoms and metastases. Symptoms were most common when the size of the primary tumor was greater than 1.0 cm (p less than 0.005), although the rate of metastases increased when primary tumors were 2.0 cm and larger (p less than 0.01). These results indicate that the presence of symptoms or a primary tumor 2.0 cm or larger are associated with an increased risk of metastatic disease in patients with carcinoid tumors. These patients should be treated with wide resection of the primary tumor and its lymphatic drainage. 
Colonic volvulus. The Army Medical Center experience 1983-1987. Colonic volvulus was first described in 1836 by von Rokitansky. The condition has been a formidable one, fraught with innumerable complications responsible for many deaths. Even with advances in surgical technology, mortalities have remained high. Often the diagnosis is delayed for hours or even days after presentation, and serious concomitant systemic diseases are often present. Treatment has been controversial, particularly the role of elective resection following successful nonoperative reduction. The Army Medical Center experience with colonic volvulus from 1983 through 1987 is reviewed. Fifty-four patients at the eight medical centers carried this diagnosis. Their presenting signs and symptoms are discussed. The Army patients are compared and contrasted with reviews presented in the surgical literature, and conclusions are made to give guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. 
Neuroanatomy and pathophysiology of pain related to spinal disorders. Sensation is achieved through the integration of many neural elements: receptors, afferent and efferent neurons, the spinal cord with its subdivisions, and the higher brain centers. One of the many sensations perceived by the human body is that of pain or nociception. To understand the concept of "back pain" associated with various spinal pathologies, some basic knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of sensation, and more specifically nociception, is necessary. This knowledge is presented herein. 
Development of a "Steps Questionnaire". Thousands of men and women have begun their recovery from alcoholism through the support of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) and its well-known "12-Step" program. The purpose of the present study was to develop a scale to measure alcoholics' levels of agreement with the first three of AA's 12 Steps and to test the relationship between sobriety and belief in these three steps. Using both factor analysis and Rasch analysis, two versions of a "Steps Questionnaire" were developed. A 96-member subset of the original subject pool was assessed quarterly for 1 year following inpatient treatment to determine the predictive validity of the questionnaire. The results of this study suggested that agreement with AA's first three steps can be measured and that agreement with AA's first step correlates with number of sober days posttreatment. The dichotomization of Steps Questionnaire scores into total agreement versus partial agreement with Step 1, and from this the reduction of uncertainty in the prediction of abstention over a lengthy follow-up period, provides support for AA's contention that total surrender to one's powerlessness over alcohol is part of the process of achieving abstention. 
Retrospective postmortem dementia assessment. Validation of a new clinical interview to assist neuropathologic study. Neuropathologic studies of dementia and normal aging suffer from a lack of individuals examined for the presence and severity of dementia before death. To increase clinical information in such cases, a retrospective collateral interview was developed. Thirty-nine individuals were studied; 27 had autopsies. In all cases, the autopsy confirmed the Retrospective Collateral Dementia Interview (RCDI) diagnosis of the presence or absence of dementia; the RCDI had a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 80% for specifically detecting probable Alzheimer's disease. Agreement between the RCDI and premortem diagnosis was 96%; between RCDI and medical records, 100%. Agreement between RCDI staging of dementia severity and the last assessment of the living subject was 70%; between the RCDI and a brief staging at death, 86%. This validation confirms the value of postmortem interviews with close informants to assess dementia presence and severity. 
Retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section: efficacy in disorders other than Meniere's disease. The retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section has evolved as an effective treatment for intractable vertigo of peripheral vestibular origin when hearing preservation is desired. This report studies the efficacy of retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section for control of vertigo due to causes other than Meniere's disease. This report details our experience with 42 patients with a wide variety of diagnoses. The reduced success rate of retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section in these patients is difficult to evaluate, as very few patients have been analyzed with respect to their specific diagnoses. Of patients who underwent retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section for control of vertigo, 23 patients had uncompensated vestibular neuritis and 19 others had a wide range of other diagnoses. For patients with uncompensated vestibular neuritis (n = 23), the physician record noted that 39% of patients were cured and 30% improved. This compares to our series of patients with Meniere's disease (n = 48), where 94% were cured and 2% improved. The true vestibular abnormality may be less reliably identified in patients with uncompensated vestibular neuritis, contributing to the less effective results. Since the development of a vestibular rehabilitation program, retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section for uncompensated vestibular neuritis has been all but abandoned. Retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section appears to achieve a high cure rate in patients with sensorineural hearing loss associated with their vestibular abnormalities. While retrolabyrinthine vestibular nerve section is helpful for control of vertigo in some diagnoses, a substantial incidence of persistent postoperative dysequilibrium was noted. 
Determinants of increase in plasma concentration of beta-carotene after chronic oral supplementation. The Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group. We studied the relationship between eight variables, including age, sex, baseline plasma beta-carotene (BC) concentration, and smoking status and the increase in plasma BC in 582 subjects receiving oral supplementation with 50 mg BC/d. Median plasma BC concentrations after 1 y of supplementation increased from 335 nmol/L at entry to 3163 nmol/L. Changes in plasma BC concentrations ranged widely from -313 to 16,090 nmol/L (median 2721 nmol/L). Multivariate analysis revealed that the subject's plasma BC concentration before supplementation was the most important indicator of the amount of increase after supplementation. Nonsmokers, women, and leaner subjects all had larger increases in plasma concentrations although the statistical model could account for relatively little of the variability in subjects' plasma response to BC supplementation (R2 = 0.14). We conclude that between-subject variability in response to daily supplementation with oral BC is very large and that the best predictor of this response is the initial plasma BC concentration. 
Ibuprofen provides longer lasting analgesia than fentanyl after laparoscopic surgery. The authors compared the analgesic efficacy of one dose of oral ibuprofen with that of intravenously administered fentanyl for relief of pain after outpatient laparoscopic surgery. Thirty healthy female patients received either 800 mg of oral ibuprofen preoperatively or 75 micrograms of intravenous fentanyl intraoperatively plus respective intravenous or oral placebos in a randomized, double-blind manner. Patients recorded their degree of pain and nausea in the recovery room, in the same-day surgery stepdown unit, during the ride home, and upon arrival at home. The postanesthesia care nurse recorded the amount of fentanyl and droperidol needed to treat pain and nausea in the recovery room. Patients who received ibuprofen were more comfortable in the stepdown unit (P less than 0.05) and after arrival home (P less than 0.05) than those in the fentanyl group. Additionally, patients who received ibuprofen had lower nausea scores in the step-down unit (P less than 0.05); this may have been related to the lower total fentanyl dose in these patients. The authors conclude that ibuprofen may be a useful alternative to fentanyl for providing postoperative analgesia for outpatient surgery. 
Leiomyosarcoma of the buttock. A 56-year-old man had a deeply invasive leiomyosarcoma of the right buttock. Leiomyosarcomas of the skin and subcutaneous tissues are rare, and most occur on the extremities. Wide local excision is the therapy of choice. 
Crohn's disease in a patient with multiple sclerosis. We report the occurrence of Crohn's disease in a patient with well-established multiple sclerosis. A relationship between inflammatory bowel disease and multiple sclerosis is supported by a higher than expected coexistence of these disease among families and individuals, as well as similar accepted and proposed mechanisms of pathogenesis and therapy. 
Class I and class II major histocompatibility complex antigens on hepatocytes: importance of the method of detection and expression in histologically normal and diseased livers. Methodological differences in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen detection were investigated on isolated, viable hepatocytes and cryostat hepatic sections from 27 children with liver disorders, six of whom had normal histology. Class I antigens were constantly found on sections using a three step immunoperoxidase technique after acetone/chloroform fixation, other techniques being less sensitive, or on isolated hepatocytes by indirect immunofluorescence alone. With mechanical isolation the percentage of positivity ranged from 85 to 100%, while with collagenase isolation it ranged from 22 to 49% on immediate testing, and from 53 to 80% after 24 hour incubation. Class II antigens were only detected in one patient with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and two with primary sclerosing cholangitis. Flow cytofluorimetric analysis in 11 cases confirmed class II or class I positivity, or both, on isolated hepatocytes, allowing MHC antigen expression on hepatocytes to be measured. Class I and II antigen detection on hepatocytes is influenced by the technique used. Although class I antigens are invariably expressed on hepatocytes, class II antigens are only found on hepatocytes from patients with immune mediated liver disorders. 
Stress echocardiography for detection of coronary artery disease. Stress echocardiography is a relatively new technique that combines cardiovascular stress with echocardiographic imaging for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. It is based on the hypothesis that stress-induced ischemia will result in regional wall motion abnormalities that can be detected by two-dimensional echocardiography or abnormalities of global function that can be detected with Doppler ultrasound. Its accuracy for detecting coronary artery disease is high enough to allow for clinical use. In such a role it has added value to the analysis of the routine electrocardiogram and symptoms during exercise. In the patient unable to exercise, pharmacological stress with the use of dobutamine or dipyridamole are realistic alternatives. In addition to the diagnosis of coronary disease, stress echocardiography can be used to demonstrate recovery of function after interventions and to assess prognosis after myocardial infarction. 
Premedication: an audit. A prospective study of routine premedication management was carried out at a large teaching hospital. Many patients received their premedication at times inappropriate for it to be effective. Several patients receiving regular medication had this suddenly stopped pre-operatively. Prolonged fasting occurred in both elective and emergency groups of patients. Benzodiazepines and opioids were prescribed most frequently and drying agents were used widely. Antacids, H2-blockers and agents to promote gastric emptying were used very little despite the potential of aspiration in many groups of patients. This audit of activity has revealed several areas of practice that can either be improved immediately or warrant detailed investigation. 
Comparison of the findings on preoperative dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy and intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography: implications regarding the identification of myocardium at ischemic risk. The evidence of myocardium at potential ischemic risk on preoperative dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy was compared with that of manifest ischemia on intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography in 26 patients at high risk of a coronary event undergoing noncardiac surgery. The clinical outcome was also assessed. Induced intraoperative wall motion abnormalities were more common in patients and myocardial segments with, than in those without, a preoperative reversible perfusion defect (both p less than 0.05). Conversely, a preoperative reversible perfusion defect was more common in patients and segments with, than in those without, a new intraoperative wall motion abnormality (both p less than 0.05). Six patients, five with a reversible scintigraphic defect but only three with a new wall motion abnormality, had a hard perioperative ischemic event. Events occurred more often among patients with, than in those without, a reversible perioperative scintigraphic defect (5 [33%] of 15 vs. 1 [9%] of 11) but this difference did not reach significance (p = 0.14), probably owing to the sample size. Intraoperative wall motion abnormalities were all reversible and did not differentiate between risk groups; these findings were possibly influenced by treatment. These preliminary data support the known relation between reversible scintigraphic defects and perioperative events and identify another manifestation of ischemic risk in the relation between reversible scintigraphic defects and induced intraoperative wall motion abnormalities. The value of intraoperative echocardiography in identifying ischemia and guiding therapy in patients with a reversible scintigraphic abnormality should be further assessed. 
Stress gastritis revisited. In current ICU populations, overt bleeding from stress gastritis occurs in 10% to 20% of patients. Bleeding rates may be reduced to about 3% in patients receiving prophylactic therapy. Although patients with bleeding have higher mortality rates than other critically ill patients, it is not clear that the mortality rate is improved with prophylactic therapy, as most patients die from their underlying disease. As new complications of prophylactic therapy are identified, better definitions of the population at risk to develop complications of stress gastritis will be necessary to select those patients who will benefit most from prophylactic therapy. 
Extra-anatomic bypass of failed traumatic arterial repairs. Arterial injuries are best treated by primary repair or anatomically placed interposition grafts. Occasionally, these repairs fail due to adverse local factors, such as soft-tissue infection or enteric contamination. In these instances, limb salvage may require extra-anatomic arterial reconstruction. Between 1979 and 1989, 13 extra-anatomic bypasses were performed in ten male patients following nine failed primary repairs and one ligation of a traumatic arterial injury. The sites of arterial injury were: aorta (two), iliac (five), femoral (two), popliteal (one). Enteric contamination was present at initial operation in six patients; the remaining four had sustained massive soft-tissue injury. Reoperation was required for hemorrhage (seven), pseudoaneurysm (two), and arteriovenous fistula (one). All patients had developed local wound problems that militated against another anatomic repair. Extra-anatomic bypasses performed were: axillo-femoral (three), femoro-femoral (four), obturator (one), and two extra-anatomic femoral to popliteal saphenous vein grafts routed around an infected field. A second extra-anatomic reconstruction was performed for recurrent hemorrhage in three patients, (axillo-femoral--two, obturator--one). One patient with a neuropathic extremity and a functioning graft underwent amputation at 2 months following the initial injury. Two patients died of systemic sepsis. Seven patients (70%) have functional extremities with intact pulses at 2 to 24 months post bypass (mean, 7 months). Limb salvage after secondary disruption of secondarily infected arterial repairs can be achieved by appropriate extra-anatomic arterial reconstruction. In such cases, limb loss is due to soft-tissue sepsis or neuro-skeletal injuries and not vascular insufficiency. 
The clinical significance and pathophysiology of stress-related gastric mucosal hemorrhage. Critically ill patients admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) develop a spectrum of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions that may result in mucosal hemorrhage and subsequent morbidity and mortality. Although stress-related mucosal lesions may be detected endoscopically in most critically ill patients, the incidence of clinically significant bleeding from these lesions is difficult to establish because of the heterogeneity in patient populations, the definitions of bleeding, and the methods of monitoring in various studies. Bleeding occurs overall in approximately 16% of patients not receiving prophylaxis, but the incidence of life-threatening hemorrhage appears to be much lower (less than 6%). In light of the increasing use of pharmacologic prophylaxis in ICUs, the clinical impact of stress-related bleeding and its prophylaxis is discussed in terms of bleeding incidence, morbidity and mortality, cost, and potential side effects. The pathophysiology of stress-related mucosal ulceration involves the complex interaction of gastric luminal factors, alterations in blood flow and intramucosal pH, and alterations in numerous factors that are normally responsible for maintaining an intact mucosa. The pathophysiology of stress ulceration is discussed, with an emphasis on cause-and-effect relationships, evolving areas of investigation, and implications for prophylaxis and treatment. 
Microbiological analysis of sepsis complicating non-surgical biliary drainage in malignant obstruction. Cholangitis with sepsis is a common complication of non-surgical biliary drainage and represents a difficult management problem. Microbiological data for 18 septic episodes in 15 patients following endoscopic biliary drainage (EBD) and 14 septic episodes in 14 patients following percutaneous transhepatic drainage (PTD) were reviewed. In the EBD group, all 18 patient episodes of sepsis had blood cultures and 10 had bile cultures obtained. In total, 17 gram-negative isolates and 5 gram-positive isolates were grown in the EBD sepsis group. All of the 14 PTD patients had bile cultures and 13 had blood cultures. In total, 23 gram-negative isolates and 26 gram-positive isolates were grown in the PTD sepsis group. When PTD cultures were compared with EBD cultures, there were significantly more gram-positive cultures (26 vs. 5) associated with PTD sepsis than EBD sepsis (p less than 0.0005). Analysis of the antibiotic sensitivities revealed that a combination of ticarcillin clavulanate with gentamicin covered 20 of the 22 (91%) EBD organisms and 38 of the 49 (78%) PTD organisms. Based on this data, ticarcillin clavulanate with gentamicin is the therapy of choice for EBD and PTD sepsis at our institution. 
Anaesthetic-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia in Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome. A four-year-old deaf girl with a history of convulsions developed polymorphous ventricular tachycardia during induction of anaesthesia. The arrhythmia reverted to sinus rhythm spontaneously. Post-anaesthetic ECG showed marked prolongation of the QTc interval (570-690 msec). Deafness and prolonged QTc interval in association with microcytic-hypochromic anaemia confirmed the diagnosis of the Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome. This case report highlights the potentially lethal complication of halothane anaesthesia in patients with long QTc interval syndrome. 
Reduction of myocardial infarction after emergency coronary artery bypass grafting for failed coronary angioplasty with use of a normothermic reperfusion cardioplegia protocol. Emergency coronary artery bypass grafting is necessary in 2.7% to 13.5% of patients undergoing elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Myocardial infarction develops in 11% to 49% of these patients, with 18% to 46% of infarcts resulting in new Q waves. Since February 1987 a revised protocol for myocardial preservation has been used in 19 patients undergoing emergency bypass grafting for failed angioplasty. Cardioplegia is induced with a normothermic blood cardioplegic solution. Multiple maintenance doses of cold (4 degrees C) blood cardioplegic solution are then delivered through the aortic root and vein grafts. Before the aortic crossclamp is removed, normothermic reperfusion cardioplegic solution is delivered through the aortic root and vein grafts. This group was compared with all patients undergoing emergency bypass grafting for failed angioplasty before February 1987. These 45 patients received cold induction of cardioplegic solution, multiple maintenance doses of cold cardioplegic solution, and no reperfusion cardioplegic solution. The prevalence of myocardial infarction in the group receiving cold cardioplegic solution was 65% versus 26% in the group receiving normothermic cardioplegic solution (p less than 0.007). Multivariate analysis identified the use of the normothermic cardioplegia protocol (p less than 0.005), nontotal occlusion of the angioplasty vessel (p less than 0.03), and presence of collateral flow to the angioplasty vessel (p less than 0.04) as being independently associated with absence of myocardial infarction. 
The lower trapezius island musculocutaneous flap revisited. Report of 45 cases and a unifying concept of the vascular supply. The lower trapezius island musculocutaneous flap is valuable in head and neck reconstruction. It offers thin, pliable tissue and a long arc of rotation to reach virtually any defect in the head and neck. Recent reports have shown unacceptably high rates of failure and have questioned the reliability of the vascularity. We report our experience with 45 reconstructions using the lower trapezius island musculocutaneous flap. The literature is reviewed and the vascular anatomy is described in detail. The concept of angiosomes is applied to the trapezius muscle to help explain the reasons for flap failure and to provide guidelines for flap design and harvest. 
Perioperative chemotherapy in oral cancer. This is an interim report of a study of perioperative adjuvant chemotherapy following radical surgery for oral cancer, based on the hypothesis of Goldie and Coleman. 135 patients of alveolobuccal carcinoma, clinically stage III and IV, were entered on the protocol. After a curative resection, they were randomized. The test arm received methotrexate 50 mg/m2 on the 3rd, 10th, and 17th postoperative days. The control arm was only observed. This analysis at 12 months showed a disease free survival of 71% in the test arm vs. 45% in the control arm, which is statistically highly significant (P less than 0.01). Analysis of recurrence pattern showed that recurrence at the primary site was dramatically reduced during the first 6 postoperative months (P less than 0.01). Our study provided further clinical evidence in support of the concepts of Goldie and Coleman that the timing of chemotherapeutic drugs is very critical for a successful end result. 
Comparative evaluation of acid- and bile-induced damage to pedicled jejunal or colonic segments in the rat. The choice of the esophageal substitute after surgical resection for peptic stricture lies between the colon and jejunum. The current study was designed to compare long-term resistance of the colonic and jejunal mucosa to gastric or mixed duodenogastric secretions. The following preparations were performed in Wistar rats: transposition of a colonic or jejunal patch (a) to the gastric body, with or without truncal vagotomy, or (b) to the gastric antrum and proximal duodenum, with or without truncal vagotomy. Jejunal and colonic patches were removed 4, 8, and 12 months after surgery. The only damage to the transposed mucosae was the alteration of microvilli. The alteration was more severe in colonic than in jejunal patches and was prevented by truncal vagotomy. Long-term resistance of the transposed mucosae to the environmental challenge may depend on their adaptation potentiality, involving both specific and nonspecific mechanisms. Nonspecific mechanisms include the increased production of mucus and the gastric-like transformation of the superficial epithelial layer. Specific mechanisms include the reduction of the mucosal surface size for jejunal segments and the shifting in mucin secretion patterns for colonic segments. 
Are history and physical examination a good screening test for sleep apnea? OBJECTIVE: To determine whether presenting clinical history, pharyngeal examination, and the overall subjective impression of the clinician could serve as a sensitive screening test for sleep apnea. DESIGN: Blinded comparison of history and physical examination with results of nocturnal polysomnography. SETTING: Sleep clinic of a tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: A total of 410 patients referred for suspected sleep apnea syndrome. Most patients reported snoring. MEASUREMENTS: All patients were asked standard questions and given an examination relevant to the diagnosis of the sleep apnea syndrome, and all had full nocturnal polysomnography. Patients with more than ten episodes of apnea or hypopnea per hour of sleep were classified as having sleep apnea. Stepwise linear logistic regression was used to develop two predictive models of sleep apnea: one based on the presence of characteristic clinical features, age, sex, and body mass index; and one based on subjective clinical impression. RESULTS: The prevalence of sleep apnea in our patients was 46%. Only age, body mass index, male sex, and snoring were found to be predictors of sleep apnea. The logistic rule discriminated between patients with and without sleep apnea (receiver operating characteristic [ROC] area, 0.77 [95% Cl, 0.73 to 0.82]). For patients with a predicted probability of apnea of less than 20%, the clinical model had 94% sensitivity and 28% specificity. Subjective impression alone identified correctly only 52% of patients with sleep apnea and had a specificity of 70%. CONCLUSIONS: In patients with a high predicted probability of the sleep apnea syndrome, subjective impression alone or any combination of clinical features cannot serve as a reliable screening test. However, in patients with a low predicted probability of sleep apnea, the model based on clinical data was sufficiently sensitive to permit about a 30% reduction in the number of unnecessary sleep studies. 
Serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha concentrations in children hospitalized for acute lower respiratory tract infection. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay in sera of 118 children (median age, 1.7 years; range, 2 months-15 years) hospitalized for acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI). Both viral and bacterial ALRI were associated with elevated concentrations of TNF alpha. Concentrations greater than 40 ng/l were seen in children with bacterial or mixed ALRI in 64% and with viral ALRI in 50% of cases. Elevated concentrations were associated with longer duration of fever before admission (P less than .05) and with a higher serum C-reactive protein concentration (P less than .05). There were no significant differences in TNF alpha concentrations between gram-positive and gram-negative infections, nor was there an association with clinical severity of ALRI. TNF alpha concentrations decreased in most patients to normal within 5 days of hospitalization, irrespective of the etiology of the infection. 
Exercise testing and left main coronary artery stenosis. Can patients with left main disease be identified? Exercise testing is commonly used to evaluate patients with coronary artery disease who have serious anatomic characteristics. To study the characteristic exercise test variables in patients with left main coronary artery disease, the computerized data base of the Hungarian Institute of Cardiology Exercise Test Laboratory was used. Among 2,378 patients who had undergone a supine bicycle exercise test and who had abnormal coronary angiographic results, 65 patients with significant (greater than 50 percent diameter narrowing) stenosis of the left main coronary artery were found. The 65 patients were subgrouped according to their previous history and other vessel involvement. Nine patients had isolated left main coronary artery disease and no myocardial infarction (group 1); 28 patients had left main coronary artery stenosis and another diseased vessel but no prior myocardial infarction (MI) (group 2); and 28 patients had left main coronary artery disease, another diseased vessel, and a prior MI (group 3). For comparison, the 27 patients selected to be the control group (group C) had no history of MI but had significant stenosis of both the left anterior descending and the left circumflex arteries. Exercise time, calculated oxygen consumption, maximal work load, time to ST depression, prevalence of ST segment depression, and maximal ST depression were similar in the groups. Maximal heart rate and double product were higher in group 1, but we could find no single variable or group of variables characteristic of left main coronary artery disease. 
Cause of death in patients attending multiple sclerosis clinics. Between 1972 and 1988, 145 deaths occurred among 3,126 patients attending the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Clinics in Vancouver, British Columbia (N = 1,583), and London, Ontario (N = 1,543). We could determine the exact cause of death in 82.1% of cases (119 of 145). Of the 119 patients for whom the cause of death was known, 56 deaths (47.1%) were directly attributed to complications of MS. Of the remaining 63 deaths, 18 (28.6%) were suicides, 19 (30.2%) were due to malignancy, 13 (20.6%) to an acute myocardial infarction, seven (11.1%) to stroke, and the remainder (9.5%) to miscellaneous causes, of which two may have been suicides. The proportion of suicides among MS deaths was 7.5 times that for the age-matched general population, and the proportion of MS deaths from malignancy was 0.67 times that for the age-matched general population. The proportion of deaths due to malignancy and stroke was the same for the MS patients and the age-matched general population. 
A phase I study of high-dose ifosfamide and escalating doses of carboplatin with autologous bone marrow support. The dose-limiting toxicity in two separate phase I trials of the high-dose single agents ifosfamide and carboplatin was renal insufficiency at 18 g/m2 and hepatic and ototoxicity at 2,400 mg/m2, respectively. In this phase I study, 16 adults were treated with ifosfamide at 75% of the single-agent maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) (12 g/m2) and escalating doses of carboplatin (400 to 1,600 mg/m2) to determine the nonhematologic dose-limiting toxicity and the maximum-tolerated dose of the combination. Both drugs as well as mesna for uroprotection were given by continuous infusion over 4 days with an additional day of mesna (total dose per course, 15 g/m2). Autologous bone marrow support was stipulated for subsequent dose levels once granulocytes remained less than 500/microL for more than 14 days in two of three to five patients entered at a given dose level. Autologous bone marrow support was used at doses above the 400 mg/m2 carboplatin dose level. At the maximum-tolerated dose level of 1,600 mg/m2 of carboplatin, renal toxicity precluded further dose escalation. Of the five patients entered at this dose level, reversible creatinine elevation greater than 2 mg/dL (median peak, 2.6 mg/dL) was observed in three patients, and irreversible renal failure occurred in an additional patient (peak creatinine, 6.9 mg/dL. Transient gross hematuria appeared more common with the combination than with ifosfamide alone. Two patients developed severe somnolence and confusion associated with a rising creatinine. There were two complete (CRs) and four partial responses (PRs) in 14 heavily pretreated assessable patients (including four partial or complete responses in eight assessable patients with advanced refractory sarcoma, and one CR in two patients with germ cell carcinoma). Carboplatin and ifosfamide appear to have overlapping renal toxicity. Nevertheless, carboplatin and ifosfamide can be combined at 80% and 75% of the single-agent maximum-tolerated doses, respectively, with acceptable nonhematologic toxicity. Ifosfamide and carboplatin are an attractive core combination for further studies in the treatment of sarcoma, germ cell, ovarian, and lung carcinomas. 
A randomized, controlled study of behavioral intervention for chemotherapy distress in children with cancer. Fifty-four pediatric cancer patients were studied to determine the relative efficacy of two forms of behavioral intervention for reducing chemotherapy-related distress. Following baseline assessment, subjects were randomly assigned to receive either hypnosis, non-hypnotic distraction/relaxation, or attention placebo (control) during the subsequent identical chemotherapy course. Observational and interview measures of anticipatory and postchemotherapy nausea, vomiting, distress, and functional disruption served as outcome data. Results indicated that treatment condition was the single best predictor of change from baseline to intervention, with children in the hypnosis group reporting the greatest reduction of both anticipatory and postchemotherapy symptoms. The cognitive distraction/relaxation intervention appeared to have a maintenance effect in which symptoms did not get much worse or much better, while children in the control group had symptoms that consistently became worse over time. Emetic potential of the chemotherapy and the prophylactic use of antiemetics each appeared to contribute to the overall severity of symptoms. While the efficacy of hypnosis in the management of chemotherapy distress is supported, the complexities of interacting biologic and psychologic factors are highlighted. 
Fatal puerperal cerebral vasospasm and stroke in a young woman. A woman who experienced postpartum cerebral infarction, brain edema, and death is described. Angiography implicated cerebral vasospasm as the primary etiology. 
First-line management of sinusitis: a national problem? Overview. Traditional concepts of sinus disease as primarily involving the maxillary sinuses are giving way to understanding of the primary involvement of the ostiomeatal complex. Recognition of predisposing factors is also improving, as is localization of disease in the ethmoid, maxillary, frontal, and sphenoid sinuses. Because of the interdependence of the sinuses, acute sinusitis is rarely limited to one sinus. The diagnosis of acute disease is relatively easy compared with that of chronic sinusitis, which mimics many other conditions. Antibiotics and decongestants typically constitute initial therapy for acute sinusitis, and surgery is reserved for patients with threatened complications. The principal goal of this symposium is to outline the most rational approach to treatment of sinus disease on the basis of currently available diagnostic and therapeutic techniques. Emphasis will be placed on first-line management, on therapeutic response, and on objective evaluation of therapeutic efficiency. 
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria with onset in childhood and adolescence. BACKGROUND. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is an acquired clonal hematologic disorder characterized by hemoglobinuria, thrombosis, infection, and a tendency toward bone marrow aplasia. Onset usually occurs in adulthood. Few children and adolescents with PNH have been described, and data on diagnosis, clinical course, and survival in young patients are unavailable. METHODS. We retrospectively reviewed clinical and laboratory data on all patients 21 years old or younger in whom PNH had been diagnosed at Duke University Medical Center from 1966 to 1991. RESULTS. Medical records and clinical follow-up data were available for 26 young patients. Although 50 percent of adult patients present with hemoglobinuria, only four of our patients (15 percent) presented with this feature. In contrast, 15 of our patients (58 percent) had moderate or severe bone marrow failure at presentation, as compared with about 25 percent of adults in cases from the literature; all 26 patients eventually had evidence of bone marrow dysfunction. Eight patients (31 percent) have died, with a median survival of 13.5 years since their initial symptoms. CONCLUSIONS. Children and adolescents with PNH have a greater prevalence of bone marrow failure than do adults with this disorder, and their morbidity and mortality are high. Bone marrow transplantation should be considered for selected young patients with PNH. 
Malignant blue nevus. To elucidate the histologic features and biologic behavior of malignant blue nevus (MBN), 12 cases were analyzed in which the tumor showed no junctional activity and arose in a blue nevus background. Seven patients were men and five were women; their mean age was 48.8 years. Eight lesions were on the scalp, and no patient had a family history of melanoma. The histologic appearance of most lesions was a nodule or nodules of malignant cells in a blue nevus. Mitoses were present in all lesions with atypical forms in eight; however the mitotic rate exceeded two per ten high-power fields in only one lesion. Four lesions had necrosis, and four had a heavily pigmented malignant component. Four patients had recurrences; ten patients had metastases, and eight died of their disease. Therefore MBN is an aggressive neoplasm. 
Assessment of value of routine bone scans in patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer. The value of routine bone scans as a staging procedure was assessed in patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer. Records from 277 patients were reviewed retrospectively to determine the serum acid and alkaline phosphatases, the presence or absence of bone pain, and the results of bone scans and other radiographic studies at the time of initial diagnosis. We determined the sensitivity and specificity of an abnormal acid phosphatase, an abnormal alkaline phosphatase, and the presence of bone pain used in combination for assessing bone metastases. If at least one of these three parameters was present, the sensitivity was 97 percent, whereas if all three tests were normal, the specificity was 78 percent. The negative predictive value for all three tests combined is 99 percent. These results suggest that a routine bone scan to stage patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer who have no bone pain and normal acid and alkaline phosphatases may not be warranted in all cases. 
Hypertensive heart disease in blacks. Although blacks may differ from whites in the response of hypertension to therapy, present data do not suggest that potential racial differences in cardiac structural adaptation to hypertension by themselves mandate a difference in therapeutic strategy. The results of large racially mixed trials of therapy that monitor LV mass regression, such as the VA Cooperative Monotherapy Trial, will be of interest in this regard. 
Association of Chlamydia pneumoniae (strain TWAR) infection with wheezing, asthmatic bronchitis, and adult-onset asthma OBJECTIVE--To study the clinical characteristics of respiratory tract illness caused by Chlamydia pneumoniae. DESIGN.-Prospective clinical, bacteriologic, and serologic study. Secondarily, a matched comparison of patients with and without evidence of C pneumoniae infection (serologic titers greater than or equal to 1:64 and less than 1:16, respectively). SETTING.--Four primary care (family practice) clinics in Madison, Wis, and nearby towns. PATIENTS.--The study included 365 white males and females (mean age, 34.2 years). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Association of acute C pneumoniae infection with signs and symptoms of respiratory illness and the relationship of C pneumoniae antibody titer with wheezing at the time of enrollment in the study, and with the diagnosis of asthmatic bronchitis. RESULTS.--Nine (47%) of 19 patients with acute C pneumoniae infection had bronchospasm during respiratory illness, and there was a strong quantitative association of C pneumoniae titer with wheezing at the time of enrollment in the study (P = .01). In the matched study, C pneumoniae antibody was significantly associated with asthmatic bronchitis after, but not before, respiratory illness (odds ratio, 7.2; 95% confidence interval, 2.2 to 23.4). Four infected patients had newly diagnosed asthma after illness, and four others had exacerbation of previously diagnosed asthma. There was no serologic evidence of coexisting Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia trachomatis, or respiratory viral infection in 96% of patients with asthmatic bronchitis and asthma. CONCLUSIONS.--Some C pneumoniae antibody titers, although not diagnostic of chlamydial infection by present criteria, probably represent acute reinfection or ongoing chronic infection. Repeated or prolonged exposure to C pneumoniae may have a causal association with wheezing, asthmatic bronchitis, and asthma. 
Pigmented postacne osteoma cutis in a patient treated with minocycline: report and review of the literature. Postacne osteoma cutis is a rare complication of acne vulgaris. If it occurs during a course of tetracycline or minocycline therapy, pigmented osteomas can occur as a result of tetracycline or minocycline bone complexes. We report a case of pigmented postacne osteoma cutis that developed after extensive acne surgery and a 2- to 3-month course of minocycline. Previously reported cases have been treated surgically, but our patient responded to 0.05% tretinoin cream, with transepidermal elimination of some osteomas. 
Correlation of motor units with strength and spectral characteristics in polio survivors and controls. The purpose of this study was to determine whether quantitative motor unit analysis in postpolio individuals correlates with muscle strength, endurance, work capacity, or power spectral characteristics of surface EMG and to determine whether power spectrum differentiates postpolio from control subjects. This study was designed to compare these variables in 34 symptomatic postpolio, 16 asymptomatic postpolio, and 41 control subjects. Quantitative motor unit analysis of the quadriceps femoris muscle was performed using a concentric needle electrode. Isometric knee extension peak torque, endurance (time to exhaustion) at 40% of maximal torque, work capacity (tension time index), and recovery of force through 10 minutes post-exhaustion were determined. Median frequency of the surface power spectrum was determined during the above testing. Power spectrum histograms were compared at the onset and termination of endurance exercise. Motor unit action potential variables did not correlate with isometric peak torque, tension time index, endurance time, recovery of strength, or with median frequency. Surface power spectrum did not differentiate postpolio from control subjects. 
Diverticulitis of the duodenum: clinical and radiological manifestations of seven cases. Seven patients with duodenal diverticulitis were evaluated by computed tomography (CT) and various other abdominal imaging techniques. The series included four men and three women who ranged in age from 47 to 84 yr (mean: 65 yr). They had presented with epigastric or periumbilical pain, low-grade fever, leukocytosis, and loss of appetite and weight due to postprandial cramps or vomiting. In each instance, the abdominal CT examination proved crucial in the diagnosis of duodenal diverticulitis, with contained perforation or inflammatory changes involving the adjacent structures. Five patients underwent laparotomy while two others were treated conservatively with antibiotics and/or percutaneous drainage of peridiverticular abscess. The clinical and radiological features of this uncommon entity are herein described, along with a brief review of the medical literature regarding the current approach to its diagnosis and management. 
Arrhythmogenic effects of graded coronary blood flow reductions superimposed on prior myocardial infarction in dogs. BACKGROUND. We studied arrhythmogenesis and its underlying pathophysiology during graded reductions of coronary blood flow, superimposed on prior myocardial infarction to test the hypothesis that spontaneous ventricular fibrillation and induced ventricular tachycardia are dependent on different patterns of coronary flow reduction in hearts with prior myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. In 10 sham-operated dogs (control group) and 24 dogs with 3-week-old experimental apical myocardial infarction, the left circumflex coronary artery was constricted to produce four grades of flow reduction: 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%. Among the sham-operated control animals, only one of 10 (10%) developed spontaneous ventricular fibrillation and only two of nine (22%) were inducible into sustained ventricular tachycardia during 100% circumflex coronary artery flow reduction. No spontaneous ventricular fibrillation or inducible ventricular tachycardia occurred with lesser grades (25%, 50%, or 75%) of flow reduction among the control animals. In the myocardial infarction group, five of 24 dogs (21%) were inducible before flow reduction. However, 50% flow reduction in the myocardial infarction group resulted in inducibility of ventricular tachycardia in 12 of 24 dogs (50%); nine of 16 (56%) during 75% flow reduction; and six of 11 (55%) with 100% flow reduction. In addition, none of the dogs in the myocardial infarction group developed spontaneous ventricular fibrillation during 25% or 50% flow reduction, whereas six of 22 (27%) developed ventricular fibrillation during 75% flow reduction and 10 of 21 (48%) during 100% flow reduction. In dogs with spontaneous ventricular fibrillation during flow reduction, the total myocardial mass of the ischemic "risk" zone and infarcted zone was significantly greater than in those without spontaneous ventricular fibrillation (68 +/- 5% versus 56 +/- 6% [p less than 0.01]). There was no difference in the total myocardial mass of the ischemic risk zone and infarcted zone between dogs with and without inducible ventricular tachycardia during flow reduction. CONCLUSIONS. In canine model of subacute myocardial infarction, superimposed ischemia increased the likelihood of inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia with lesser grades of coronary flow reduction compared with that necessary to allow spontaneous ventricular fibrillation. The underlying pathophysiology appears to differ between spontaneous ventricular fibrillation and electrically induced sustained ventricular tachycardia. 
Diagnosis and cure of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias during a single electrophysiologic test BACKGROUND. We conducted this study to determine the feasibility of an abbreviated therapeutic approach to the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, in which the diagnosis is established and radiofrequency ablation carried out during a single electrophysiologic test. METHODS. One hundred six consecutive patients were referred for the management of documented, symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias (66 patients) or the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (40 patients). All agreed to undergo a diagnostic electrophysiologic test and catheter ablation with radiofrequency current. No patient had had such a test previously. RESULTS. Among the 66 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias, the mechanism was found to be atrioventricular nodal reentry in 46 (70 percent) (typical in 44 and atypical in 2), atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia involving a concealed accessory pathway in 16 (24 percent), atrial tachycardia in 2 (3 percent), and noninducible paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in 2 (3 percent). A successful long-term outcome was achieved in 57 of 62 patients (92 percent) with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in whom ablation was attempted and in 37 of 40 patients (93 percent) with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The only complications were one instance of occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery, leading to acute myocardial infarction, and one instance of complete atrioventricular block. The mean (+/- SD) duration of the electrophysiologic procedures was 114 +/- 55 minutes. CONCLUSIONS. The diagnosis and cure of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia or the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome during a single electrophysiologic test are feasible and practical and have a favorable risk-benefit ratio. This abbreviated therapeutic approach may eliminate the need for serial electropharmacologic testing, long-term drug therapy, antitachycardia pacemakers, and surgical ablation. 
Liposarcoma of the thyroid gland. Fine-needle aspiration cytology, immunohistology, and ultrastructure. A 56-year-old woman presented with a rapidly growing tumoral mass of the thyroid. In fine-needle aspirates, neoplastic cells were interpreted as undifferentiated (anaplastic) carcinoma. In contrast, histologic examination of tissue samples revealed a tumor with features suggestive of myxoid liposarcoma. The non-epithelial nature was confirmed by immunohistochemical and electron microscopic evaluation. Immunostains for vimentin and S-100 protein were positive, whereas no reactivity was obtained for epithelial markers. Ultrastructurally, the tumor consisted of poorly differentiated mesenchymal cells and lipoblastic elements in various stages of differentiation. Review of the literature reveals only one previous report of thyroid liposarcoma, the diagnosis of which was based on conventional light microscopic studies. 
Potent cytodifferentiating agents related to hexamethylenebisacetamide. Bishydroxamic acids are effective inducers of differentiation in murine erythroleukemia cells. Flexible analogs of suberic acid bisdimethylamide are approximately 100 times as active as the parent compound or hexamethylenebisacetamide. They also induce differentiation of human promyelocytic leukemia cells (HL-60) and a subclone of human colon carcinoma cells (HT-29-U4). Some rigid bishydroxamic acids with benzene rings in the spacers are even more active toward murine erythroleukemia cells but show curious biological differences. In contrast to the flexible molecules, those with benzene spacers show poor activity toward HL-60 cells; they also have different geometric requirements, and they are not additive with hexamethylenebisacetamide in their effect. It is likely that rigid bishydroxamic acids, with a benzene ring spacer, induce differentiation by a different mechanism in spite of their chemical resemblance to the flexible bisamide and bishydroxamic acid inducers. 
Percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty of lesions not ideal for balloon angioplasty BACKGROUND. Excimer laser coronary angioplasty is a new, investigational technique for treating coronary artery stenoses. Initial reports have demonstrated acute efficacy and relative safety of this procedure, but have not addressed the effect of lesion type on acute success and complication rates. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the first 100 patients undergoing percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty at our institution, acute laser success was obtained in 84% and procedural success was obtained in 94%. There were six acute closures during laser angioplasty and one myocardial infarction. Two patients required emergency coronary bypass surgery. Sixty-five percent of patients had lesions not ideal for balloon angioplasty because of lesion morphology (tubular, diffuse, or chronic total occlusion) or ostial location. There were 10 tubular stenoses, 29 diffuse lesions, 18 chronic total occlusions, and eight ostial lesions, including five aorto-ostial lesions. In this nonideal subgroup, the acute success rate with laser was 86% (72% of chronic total occlusions and 91% of non-totally occluded lesions), and the procedural success rate was 94%. There were three acute occlusions during laser angioplasty but no myocardial infarctions, emergency bypass surgeries, or deaths. One coronary artery perforation occurred without clinical sequelae. Laser angioplasty was successful in four of six lesions (67%) in which balloon angioplasty had failed. Laser success was obtained in 10 of 11 (91%) moderately or heavily calcified stenoses. Eight eccentric lesions and two lesions on bends were successfully treated without dissection or perforation. No side branch occlusions occurred in the 15 patients in whom one or more major branches originated within the lesion treated. Adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed in 47% of cases, usually to obtain a larger final luminal diameter. Need for adjunctive balloon angioplasty decreased to 36% after a larger (2.0 mm) laser catheter became available. Twenty-eight percent of the 105 lesions treated were American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association classification type A, 47% were type B, and 25% were type C. Laser and procedural successes were obtained in 83% and 97% of type A, 88% and 96% of type B, and 85% and 88% of type C lesions, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. In our initial experience, excimer laser angioplasty was found to be acutely effective and safe therapy for lesions identified as not ideal for balloon angioplasty. This technique may provide a useful adjunct or alternative to balloon angioplasty in selected patients. 
Management of bleeding liver tumours in Hong Kong. A retrospective study was undertaken of 41 patients diagnosed as having suffered spontaneous liver rupture over a 4-year period to identify the clinical features, treatment and outcome of this complication in an area in which hepatocellular carcinoma is endemic. Two patients were excluded with a revised diagnosis of haemorrhagic malignant ascites. Of the remaining 39 patients, 37 bled from ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma, one from peliosis hepatis and multiple liver cell adenomas, and one from a malignant hepatic epithelioid haemangioendothelioma. Analysis showed that 59 per cent of patients were in shock on admission and that all but two of the 37 patients with ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma were men with cirrhosis. The association with cirrhosis was significantly higher than in a series of 45 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing elective resection during the same period (P less than 0.05). Treatment consisted of supportive care only in two patients, angiographic embolization in four, emergency liver resection in 11 of whom six died, hepatic artery ligation in 12 of whom eight died, and suture and/or packing in eight of whom six died. One patient died at laparotomy and in another patient bleeding was successfully arrested by intratumoural injection of absolute alcohol. Because of the high operative mortality of emergency surgery in these poor risk patients, prospective evaluation of emergency angiographic embolization is required. 
Where there is no anaesthetist.... In an unselected series of 254 operations representing a wide range of surgical, obstetric and gynaecological procedures carried out on the small Pacific island of Tuvalu, the majority (85 per cent) involved the lower half of the body. In all cases but one anaesthesia was administered by a non-specialist. In operations below the level of the diaphragm epidural anaesthesia was usually used with a success rate of 96 per cent. In the upper half of the body ketamine was used where local or regional block was insufficient. Only one operation was performed under general inhalation anaesthesia. The overall postoperative mortality rate was 0.4 per cent and the morbidity rate was 13 per cent. Only two minor complications were attributed to the anaesthetic method used. In situations where anaesthetists are not available, epidural and ketamine anaesthesia in the hands of non-specialists are safe and practical options to general inhalation anaesthesia and are appropriate for most surgical procedures. 
Lupus anticoagulant inhibition of in vitro prostacyclin release is associated with a thrombosis-prone subset of patients. PURPOSE: The effect of lupus anticoagulant-containing sera on endothelial prostacyclin generation (both basal and after thrombin stimulation) was determined. Subsets of patients who had experienced arterial, venous, or no thrombosis were compared with respect to the quantitation of antiphospholipid antibody and effects on prostacyclin production. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Serum antiphospholipid antibodies were detected in 26 patients by immunologic (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and kinetic (anticoagulant) assays. Cultured human endothelial cells were exposed to patient or normal serum, and the release of prostacyclin was determined by radioimmunoassay of supernatants. Release was determined in the absence and presence of the secretagogue, thrombin (1 U/mL), corrected for interassay variation, and correlated with other clinical and laboratory variables. RESULTS: The normal prostacyclin response was a 2.5-fold increase after thrombin (1 U/mL) compared to basal production. Patients with a history of arterial thrombosis (Group 1, n = 10) had the highest IgG anticardiolipin antibody titers (449 +/- 115 [OD x 1,000]), most prolonged kaolin clotting times (140 +/- 15 seconds), and the least prostacyclin response to thrombin (1.36-fold). Patients with venous thrombosis (Group 2, n = 6) had lower titers (329 +/- 120), intermediate clotting times (125 +/- 19 seconds), and slightly impaired prostacyclin responses (2.18-fold). Patients with no history of thrombosis (Group 3, n = 10) had low antibody titers (220 +/- 20), mildly prolonged clotting times (108 +/- 6 seconds), and normal prostacyclin responses (2.33-fold). Patient serum did not alter basal or arachidonate-induced prostacyclin production. Group 1 had significantly lower platelet counts (99 +/- 19) compared to Group 2 (167 +/- 35) or Group 3 (167 +/- 34), but were similar in age and associated diagnoses. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of prostacyclin responses is commonly found in serum from patients with lupus anticoagulants, and is likely to be present in patients with high IgG anticardiolipin antibodies, strong lupus anticoagulants, low platelet counts, and a recent arterial thrombosis. 
Interrelationship between activation of dopaminergic pathways and cerebrospinal fluid concentration of dopamine tetrahydroisoquinoline metabolite salsolinol in humans: preliminary findings. The main objective of this study was to determine whether the activation of dopaminergic pathways, through adrenal-caudate transplantation, stimulated the production of dopamine and salsolinol in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Parkinson's disease. Dopamine sulfate and salsolinol sulfate in CSF specimens were measured by radioenzymatic technique. The results of this study demonstrated that the replacement of degenerative nigrostriatal neurons with new dopamine-producing cells by adrenal brain transplants in patients with Parkinson's disease resulted in significant increase (p less than 0.05) in CSF levels of free dopamine, dopamine sulfate, free salsolinol, and salsolinol sulfate as compared with preoperative levels. Moreover, the oral administration of L-dopa to these transplanted patients caused substantial (p less than 0.001) elevation in CSF levels of free dopamine (before L-dopa, 146 +/- 57 pg/ml; after L-dopa, 575 +/- 207 pg/ml), dopamine sulfate (before L-dopa, 1966 +/- 945 pg/ml; after L-dopa, 41679 +/- 29326 pg/ml), free salsolinol (before L-dopa, 43 +/- 29 pg/ml; after L-dopa, 186 +/- 90 pg/ml), and salsolinol sulfate (before L-dopa, 405 +/- 477 pg/ml; after L-dopa, 2908 +/- 2572 pg/ml), respectively. 
Use of mammography in screening for breast cancer. Recognizing the enormous impact that quality breast screening mammography can have on reducing breast cancer deaths, we need to determine when women's and physician's perceived restrictions for mammography examination impede the progress of its use for early cancer detection. A uniform system should emphasize valid communication and education between women and their physicians. Women seek to have a voice in their medical treatment. Yet that responsibility has an emotional price. Physicians and patients must decide together on the most appropriate strategies to enhance communication and adopt specific guidelines they will adhere to, to detect and cure early breast cancer. Women must be educated about breast screening mammography, and physicians must increase their efforts to proclaim its importance. Women need be assured the trend is toward using the most modern mammographic techniques. Quality medical care is medicine's purpose and in women's best interest. At present, no other diagnostic method is equivalent to mammography and capable of providing an equivalent impact on improving the detection and cure rate of breast cancer. Despite medical activities designed to reduce uncertainty in medicine, scientific evidence has not provided systematic answers as to the "best" way to approach issues of quality, cost, accessibility, or communication for breast screening mammography. No particular expert opinion or preference prevails for breast screening protocols. What is needed is adoption of a multidisciplinary approach, educating and motivating women and physicians to participate in breast screening activities. With trends directed toward high-volume breast screening operations, low-cost, quality mammography must be available and be impeccably performed. Some activities are natural subjects for financial quantification. It is objectionable to assume, however, that we can accurately place and agree on dollar amounts alone to represent the costs and benefits of screening mammography. The gaps between practices and attitudes about the benefits, risks, and costs of screening mammography suggest that people are not satisfied with the way physicians, women, influential groups, or regulatory agencies are balancing all of the elements. Better communication must exist between physicians and their peer groups involved in performing responsible mammography. Better communication must be achieved between physicians and women to take advantage of the usefulness of quality breast screening mammography. High-quality screening programs must be linked to third-party reimbursement and to legislation, if we are to make a difference. Screening mammography deserves our medical, economic, social, and political attention and action. 
Delayed sternal closure for life-threatening complications in cardiac operations: an update. Over a 7-year-period, 25 patients had delayed sternal closure after open heart operations out of 34 patients whose sternum was not closed. The indications were extreme cardiac dilatation and uncontrollable mediastinal hemorrhage. This represented a 1.79% incidence in the overall open heart surgical experience at our unit. Sternal closure was performed at a mean of 2.64 days after the initial operation. Eighteen patients (52.9%) left the hospital alive and well, representing a 72% survival rate among patients undergoing delayed sternal closure. No mediastinal or fatal infection developed and only 1 patient had late superficial wound infection after delayed sternal closure. We conclude that delayed sternal closure is an effective method to treat severe complications after cardiac operations. 
Cerebellorubral degeneration after resection of cerebellar dentate nucleus neoplasms: evaluation with MR imaging. The authors describe the magnetic resonance (MR) findings in seven patients who developed severe cerebellar symptoms and atrophy of the contralateral red nucleus following removal of unilateral neoplasms in the deep nuclei of the cerebellum. For most patients, pre- and postoperative spin-echo MR images were obtained with long repetition times (TRs) at 1.5 T. The long TR images obtained before surgery demonstrated unilateral masses involving the dentate nucleus. Long TR images obtained after surgical resection of the dentate nucleus showed increased signal intensity in all of seven contralateral red nuclei, three of seven ipsilateral superior cerebellar peduncles, and two of seven contralateral inferior olivary nuclei. Three other patients who underwent surgery for cerebellar neoplasms without resection of the dentate nuclei showed no postoperative brain stem changes on MR images. The authors speculate that the changes in the contralateral red nuclei are due to cerebellorubral degeneration (since well-described neural tracts interconnect the dentate nucleus and the contralateral red nucleus). Injury of the dentate nucleus may result in degeneration of distant neural connections. 
N-terminal pro atrial natriuretic peptide in human plasma. N-Terminal pro ANP (atrial natriuretic peptide) in human plasma has been measured by radioimmunoassay after extraction on Sep-Pak cartridges. Immunoreactive N-terminal pro ANP circulates in human plasma at higher levels than alpha-hANP (approximately 20-fold higher in normal subjects) and was elevated in patients with essential hypertension, cardiac transplantation and patients with chronic renal failure. In chronic renal failure patients undergoing hemodialysis, C-terminal ANP (ANP 99-126), but not N-terminal ANP, declined significantly after dialysis. Gel filtration experiments demonstrated a single peak of N-terminal ANP immunoreactivity, eluting in parallel with synthetic human pro ANP 1-67, indicating a similar molecular size and the absence of low molecular weight N-terminal fragments. 
Activity of intrapleural recombinant gamma-interferon in malignant mesothelioma. Twenty-two consecutive patients with malignant diffuse pleural mesothelioma were treated with recombinant gamma-interferon by the intrapleural route. Diagnosis was made by thoracoscopic examination and all cases were confirmed by the French Mesothelioma Panel of Pathologist. Patients were staged based on thoracoscopic examination and computed tomography (CT) scan: 12 patients were classified as Stage I and 10 were Stage II. A solution of gamma-interferon (40 X 106 U) was infused twice a week over 2 months. Every patient experienced fever. One patient had a Grade 2 leukopenia and one patient suffered from pleural empyema. Response evaluation was based on the following: (1) CT scan performed 2 weeks after treatment ended, and (2) repeat thoracoscopic examination with histopathologic verification in nine patients who had demonstrated a stabilization or a regression of the disease on CT scan. From the original group, 19 patients could be evaluated. Four complete thoracoscopic histopathologic responses and one partial response were observed in Stage I patients (56%). One partial response was observed in Stage II patients. 
Hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism due to hepatocellular carcinoma metastatic to the adrenal gland. Metastases to the adrenal glands are common in patients with cancer, but among those affected, hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism is noted very rarely. A case of hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism secondary to metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma is reported. Laboratory data revealed selective aldosterone deficiency with hyperreninemia. Biopsy documented replacement of the adrenal glands with metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma. A review of the literature disclosed that the present case was an extremely rare one of its kind. 
Controlling gastric pH: the impact of newer agents on the critically ill patient. The critically ill patient is at increased risk for developing erosive injury of the stomach, duodenum, and esophagus. To date, the most effective way to prevent and treat this problem is by assuring excellent intensive care support and by reducing gastric acid secretion. The histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) are effective in both prevention and treatment of such gastric mucosal injury. Newer agents are available that have potential for use in this setting, although none have been studied as extensively in critically ill patients as have the H2RAs. These new agents include proglumide, pirenzepine, misoprostol, omeprazole, and somatostatin. To date, only the latter has been extensively studied in critically ill patients. Omeprazole, which suppresses acid very effectively, may be problematic in the critically ill, limited by its oral dosage form, acid-labile properties, and potential drug interactions. 
Beta-adrenergic-antagonist drugs in the prevention of gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices. An analysis of data and prognostic factors in 589 patients from four randomized clinical trials. Franco-Italian Multicenter Study Group. BACKGROUND. The value of beta-adrenergic-antagonist drug therapy for the prevention of initial episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices is uncertain, both positive and negative study results having been reported. METHODS. In this study, we analyzed data on individual patients from four randomized, controlled trials to assess the efficacy of this treatment. Of the 589 patients studied, 286 received a beta-adrenergic-antagonist drug (propranolol in 203 and nadolol in 83) and 303 received placebo. RESULTS. After two years, the mean (+/- SE) percentage of patients who had had no upper gastrointestinal bleeding was 78 +/- 3 percent in the beta-adrenergic-antagonist treatment group and 65 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.002). The percentage of patients without fatal bleeding was 90 +/- 2 percent in the treatment group and 82 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.01). The percentage of patients surviving after two years was 71 +/- 3 percent in the treatment group and 68 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.34). After age and severity of cirrhosis were taken into account, the survival rate was better in the treatment group (P = 0.09). The percentage of surviving patients who had had no bleeding after two years was 62 +/- 3 percent in the treatment group and 53 +/- 3 percent in the control group (P = 0.04). Both propranolol and nadolol prevented a first episode of bleeding. Severe cirrhosis and especially the presence of ascites were associated with bleeding (P less than 0.001) and death (P less than 0.001) in both groups. The efficacy of beta-adrenergic-antagonist therapy in the prevention of bleeding (P less than 0.001) and of fatal bleeding (P = 0.004) and in the prevention of bleeding or death (P = 0.005) was the same after adjustment for cause and severity of cirrhosis, ascites, and size of varices. CONCLUSIONS. Propranolol and nadolol are effective in preventing first bleeding and reducing the mortality rate associated with gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis, regardless of severity. 
Effect of irreversible dermal necrosis on phagocytic activity of reticuloendothelial system. A model of full-thickness dermal necrosis was produced in rats by the application of liquid nitrogen to a 20% total body surface area of the dorsal skin surface. In this model there was an alteration of reticuloendothelial system phagocytic activity of the lung and spleen as measured by the uptake of technetium 99m-labeled sulfur colloid in vivo. The present results suggest that marked alterations in reticuloendothelial system phagocytic activity can be produced by full-thickness dermal necrosis in the absence of heat. 
Iodine 131 metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid [published erratum appears in South Med J 1991 Jul;84(7):816, 937] We have presented a case of sporadic medullary carcinoma of the thyroid with documentation of localization of tracer 131I-MIBG within the primary neoplasm. A review of the nuclear medicine literature of localization techniques for MCT demonstrates that 131I-MIBG, while an excellent choice for diagnosis of pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma, produces low yield and unpredictable concentration in other neural crest apudomas, including MCT. A low incidence of true-positive results with 131I-MIBG uptake and a high incidence of false-negative results make this radiopharmaceutical a suboptimal choice for diagnostic studies, but a potentially promising one as a therapeutic agent. 
Treatment of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome with cyclosporin A in children. Cyclosporin A (CyA, Sandimmun) was given to 71 children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, 45 of whom were steroid-dependent with signs of steroid toxicity, and 23 who were steroid-resistant. Cyclosporin A was effective in 80% of the steroid-dependent patients, allowing cessation of corticosteroid treatment. However, most of these patients relapsed when CyA was tapered or withdrawn. In these patients, CyA may be required for long periods of time. Conversely, CyA was less effective in steroid-resistant patients; only 7% achieved remission with CyA alone. Cyclosporin A in association with prednisone may be an effective alternative as 8 out of 14 patients entered remission with this treatment combination. Serial renal biopsies were performed in 43 patients to evaluate the potential nephrotoxicity of the treatment. Eighteen patients developed significant tubulointerstitial lesions which were attributable to CyA nephrotoxicity. The risk of developing chronic nephrotoxicity appears to be higher in steroid-resistant patients, and was not related to the duration of treatment. Cyclosporin A nephrotoxicity can develop in patients with normal renal function. 
Calcium metabolism in hypertension and allied metabolic disorders. Data suggest a critical role for Ca metabolism in the pathophysiology of hypertensive disease. Intracellularly, all hypertension displays elevated cytosolic free-Ca2+ and suppressed free-Mg2+ levels. Extracellularly, however, heterogeneous defects in Ca and Mg metabolism are observed. This apparent divergence may be explained by considering all hypertension as the expression, in varying degrees, of two underlying Ca-related mechanisms: one (salt sensitive, low renin, Ca(2+)-antagonist sensitive) dependent on inappropriate cellular Ca2+ uptake from the extracellular space and the other (salt insensitive, renin dependent, Ca(2+)-antagonist insensitive) dependent on increased cellular Ca2+ release from intracellular sites. Recent work highlights the role of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and the newly described parathyroid hypertensive factor in volume-dependent low-renin forms of hypertension. Altered cellular ion handling may also explain metabolic and clinical correlates of hypertension, e.g., peripheral insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, obesity, and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Thus, all subjects with NIDDM, whether hypertensive or not, display the same elevated cytosolic free-Ca2+ and suppressed free-Mg2+ levels observed in hypertension. Furthermore, adiposity, the level of blood pressure, and fasting and postglucose hyperinsulinemia are all closely and quantitatively related to intracellular free-Ca2+, free-Mg2+, and pH levels. This suggests a broader hypothesis, in which hypertension, obesity, insulin resistance, and NIDDM, each usually considered a distinct clinical entity, represent different clinical expressions of a common defect in cellular ion handling, hence explaining their frequent clinical coexistence in the general population. 
Model for studying virus attachment. II. Binding of biotinylated human T cell leukemia virus type I to human blood mononuclear cells potential targets for human T cell leukemia virus type I infection. Purified human T cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) was biotinylated and used to study its attachment to human PBMC. The use of biotinylated HTLV-I (biot-HTLV-I) in conjunction with mouse mAb specific for selected cell-surface molecules and flow cytometric analysis allowed us to positively identify virus-binding cells among a heterogeneous blood mononuclear cell population. Biot-HTLV-I efficiently bound not only to T cells, but also to B cells and monocytes. Preincubation of monocytes with excess of unlabeled HTLV-I significantly reduced the attachment of biot-HTLV-I. HTLV-I not only bound to, but also infected, B cells, as suggested by: i) in situ hybridization of a 35S-labeled full length HTLV-I DNA probe with EBV-transformed B cells, previously cocultured with HTLV-I-producing (G11MJ) T cells, and ii) hybridization of the same nick-translated 32P-labeled DNA probe with blotted DNA from similar HTLV-I-infected EBV-transformed B cells. HTLV-I infection did not affect the ability of B cells to secrete IgG. These findings suggest that HTLV-I cannot only infect cells of the T lineage, but can also infect B cells. 
In vivo thrombus formation on a guidewire during intravascular ultrasound imaging: evidence for inadequate heparinization. We present a case in which thrombus formation on a guidewire was visualized during intravascular ultrasound imaging despite the administration of 10,000 units of heparin sulfate prior to the procedure. Gross thrombus formation was confirmed upon removal of the guidewire. The activated clotting time was found to be 191 s, suggesting heparin resistance. This report graphically illustrates the potential thrombogenicity associated with intravascular guidewire manipulation during procedures such as intravascular ultrasound imaging and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Moreover, this case suggests that adequate heparinization should be routinely verified by measuring the activated clotting time prior to introducing a guidewire into the arterial system. 
Infections with Chryseomonas luteola (CDC group Ve-1) and Flavimonas oryzihabitans (CDC group Ve-2) in neurosurgical patients. During a 20-month period at Temple University Hospital, three cases of infection with bacteria of the Ve group--Chryseomonas luteola (CDC group Ve-1) and Flavimonas oryzihabitans (CDC group Ve-2)--were seen in neurosurgical patients. Two of the patients, including one with what is thought to be the first reported case of meningitis due to C. luteola, had complications caused by prosthetic material. A review of the literature revealed 14 well-described cases of infection with C. luteola or F. oryzihabitans, the majority of which were cases of bacteremia or peritonitis in patients undergoing dialysis. The presence of foreign material and the use of corticosteroids may predispose to and influence the course of disease. As prosthetic material becomes even more widely used, the incidence of infection with bacteria of the Ve group will likely increase and the manifestations of the infections will probably become more varied. 
The use of absorbable sutures in laser-assisted microvascular anastomoses. The efficacy of the laser in performing microvascular anastomoses has been well established in the laboratory using a number of wavelengths. These studies have concluded that laser-assisted microvascular anastomoses are at least comparable to, if not superior to, ordinary suture techniques. The advantages have been the diminished foreign body reaction that occurs as a consequence of using only a few stay sutures to hold the vessels in approximation while the laser bonding is performed, as well as the rapidity of the surgery. We have already shown that absorbable sutures (polyglactin 910) are as efficacious as standard nonabsorbable sutures (nylon) in both arterial and venous microanastomoses. The current study was undertaken to see if the foreign body reaction could be diminished even further by the use of absorbable 10.0 sutures and compare these findings to laser-assisted microvascular anastomoses performed with nonabsorbable sutures. The carbon dioxide milliwatt laser was used to perform laser-assisted microvascular anastomoses in rat femoral arteries and veins. Patency rates and histological response were compared at intervals of 3 days and 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks postoperatively. Both arterial and venous patency rates were comparable (overall absorbable, 91.2%-52/57; overall nonabsorbable, 87.7%-50/57), as was the degree of inflammation and fibrosis. We conclude that absorbable sutures can be used for laser-assisted microvascular anastomoses and have the potential of allowing healing to occur without any foreign material within the surgical site. 
Immunomodulation of the induction phase of lymphokine-activated killer activity by acute phase proteins. Effective treatment of head and neck cancer with biologic response modifiers may be benefitted by an understanding of in vivo factors capable of modulating the lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell phenomenon. Eighteen patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were studied. Killer cells from each patient, activated by recombinant interleukin-2 (10 U/ml), were induced in either complete medium alone or complete medium plus 10% autologous serum solution and analyzed. Cytotoxicity against both K562 and squamous cell carcinoma (MDA686-Ln) cell lines was determined by use of standard chromium-release assays. The immunomodulatory capacity of serum was correlated with levels of various acute phase proteins. Autologous serum significantly inhibited the induction phase of the LAK phenomenon in 61% of patients and stimulated it in 22%. No patients with early stage I or II disease had significant inhibition of induction. No direct correlation between inhibition and serum acute phase protein levels were seen. An inverse relationship was seen between the C3 component of complement and induction inhibition (r = -0.6). These findings suggest that advances of in vivo immunomodulatory therapy will require elucidation of mechanisms of serologic inhibition of the induction phase of the LAK phenomenon. Such studies may lead to serologic modification to enhance treatment efficacy of biologic response modifiers. 
Diffuse esophageal spasm. A rare motility disorder not characterized by high-amplitude contractions. Diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) has frequently been described as a motility disorder characterized by simultaneous, high-amplitude contractions. We reviewed the results of esophageal manometry testing on a total of 1480 patients referred to our lab over 36 months. Lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressure was determined by a mean of four station pull-through. Esophageal body motility was assessed following 10 wet swallows. In our lab a diagnosis of DES is made when greater than 10% but less than 100% of contractions are simultaneous. Manometric findings of DES were rare, with an overall prevalence of 4% (56/1480). Of the 56 patients with a manometric diagnosis of DES, high-amplitude (mean greater than or equal to 180 mm Hg) peristaltic contractions were found in only two (4%). No simultaneous contractions with amplitude greater than or equal to 180 mm Hg were seen. Pressures of simultaneous contractions were consistently lower than peristaltic contractions. A hypertensive LES pressure (greater than or equal to 45 mm Hg) was present in 5/56 DES patients (9%). Poor LES relaxation was found in 7/56 DES patients (13%). We conclude that DES is a rare manometric finding, regardless of the reason for referral, and that the occurrence of high-amplitude contractions in DES is equally rare. 
Proteins of the complement system and acute phase reactants in sera of patients with spinal cord injury. Complement activity was studied in patients with spinal cord transection. In some sera acute phase reactants: haptoglobin, C-reactive proteins, ceruloplasmin, as well as fibrinogen and fibrin degradation products, and immune complexes were monitored. Complement and acute phase reactants are increased in a majority of patients. Continuing inflammation and release of inflammatory mediators could be responsible for poor healing that commonly occurs in spinal cord injury. Urinary tract and other infections are associated with some but not all of the protein abnormalities. These proinflammatory proteins may contribute to the lack of healing of spinal transection. 
The influence of severity of spinal cord ischemia in the etiology of delayed-onset paraplegia. To clarify the cause of delayed-onset paraplegia, the authors evaluated the neurologic outcome after temporary (10 to 30 minutes) spinal cord ischemia in the awake rabbit. Loss of motor function occurred in less than 2 minutes in all animals. Restoration of flow within 16 minutes always resulted in full return of function, whereas with occlusion times of greater than 27 minutes all animals remained paralyzed. After temporary occlusion of 20 to 21 minutes, however, 71% of animals returned to normal neurologic function but developed delayed-onset paraplegia 14 to 48 hours later. This appears to be a reliable method for the creation of a model of delayed-onset paraplegia in the awake animal, and will facilitate more detailed studies of the pathophysiology of ischemia-induced paraplegia. 
Trauma history in diagnostic groups of temporomandibular disorders. Trauma history was studied for association with disease among six diagnostic subgroups of 230 patients with temporomandibular disorder (TMD) from a private practice setting with (1) disk displacement (DD) with reduction, (2) DD without reduction, (3) osteoarthrosis (OA) with prior derangement history, (4) primary OA, (5) myalgia only, and (6) subluxation only. Except for subluxation (29%), trauma history typified TMD patient groups 1 to 5 (63%, 79%, 44%, 53%, 54%) (p less than 0.001) compared with 13% and 18% of asymptomatic (n = 61) and symptomatic (n = 161) student control subjects, and 11% of general dental patients (n = 150). TMD groups 2 and 3 differed significantly (p less than 0.05). The high prevalence of trauma in the myalgia-only group complicates the concept of myofascial pain-dysfunction syndrome as solely a stress or centrally mediated disorder. DD without reduction (43%) and with reduction (38%) had the highest prevalences of motor vehicle accident trauma, myalgia and OA groups had less, and subluxation-only cases had none. On the other hand, patients with DD without reduction were also the only group to report multiple trauma (29%), suggesting that although specific traumatic events may seem to precipitate clinical symptoms, they may not always have initiated the problem. Trauma may be both an important cumulative and precipitating event in TMDs. 
Limitations of balloon angioplasty for vein graft stenosis. Vein graft stenosis remains an important contributing factor to the failure of infrainguinal arterial reconstruction. Repair of these lesions before graft occlusion provides sustained patency, yet the optimal method of repair has not been established. Percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty of these vein graft lesions has been repeatedly advocated as an alternative to surgical revision. Balloon angioplasty was used in 30 patients with 54 stenotic lesions occurring in autogenous vein grafts after infrainguinal reconstruction. The primary 5-year cumulative patency rate was 18% overall, with no significant differences observed among patency rates based on initial indication, length of stenotic lesion, or requirement for preliminary thrombolytic therapy. The 3-year patency rate associated with vein graft lesions requiring only a single angioplasty proved significantly higher (59%) than those requiring repetitive dilations (6%). It is our conclusion that balloon angioplasty for vein graft stenosis has significant limitations in providing sustained secondary patency. 
Safety and tolerance of oral dextromethorphan in patients at risk for brain ischemia. Experimental ischemia models have shown the antitussive dextromethorphan to be an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist with neuroprotective properties. We treated 10 patients with a history of recent stroke or transient ischemic attack with oral dextromethorphan (60 mg q.i.d.) for 3 weeks in a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover tolerance study. We documented no clinical evidence of toxicity attributable to dextromethorphan in this preliminary study. 
Imaging of cocaine-induced global and regional myocardial ischemia. Severe and often fatal cardiac complications have been reported in cocaine users with narrowed coronary arteries caused by atherosclerosis as well as in young adults with normal coronaries. We have found that in normal dogs cocaine induces severe temporary hypoperfusion of the left ventricle as indicated by a significantly lower 201Tl concentration compared to the baseline state. The most significant decrease in uptake occurred 5 min after injection and was more pronounced in the septal and apical segments. Following intravenous administration of cocaine, instead of gradual disappearance of 201Tl from the left ventricle, there was continuous increase in 201Tl concentration in the left ventricle. These imaging experiments indicate that the deleterious effects of cocaine on the heart are probably due to spasm of the coronaries and decreased myocardial perfusion. Since spasm of the large subpericardial vessels does not seem to explain the magnitude of the increased coronary resistance and decreased coronary flow after cocaine as described in the literature, it is suggested that microvascular spasm of smaller vessels plays a major role in the temporary decrease in perfusion. The data may also suggest that severe temporary myocardial ischemia is probably the initiating factor for the cardiac complications induced by cocaine. 
Fulminant childhood hemophagocytic syndrome mimicking histiocytic medullary reticulosis. An atypical form of Epstein-Barr virus infection. Ten cases of pediatric fulminant hemophagocytic syndrome, encountered between 1986 and 1989, are described. They occurred in the summer, and the patients presented with fever, jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, and abnormal liver function. Bone marrow studies revealed infiltration by atypical T-lymphoid cells, rare B immunoblasts, and mature histiocytes with hemophagocytosis. Initially, histiocytic medullary reticulosis was suspected in six cases. The clinical course was characterized by rapid deterioration, with a mean period of 16 days from onset of fever to death. The main causes of death were coagulopathy with multiple organ failure and opportunistic infection. In seven of eight cases studied by serologic assay and Southern blot hybridization, acute or active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection was documented. It is suggested that an atypical or fulminant form of primary EBV infection distinct from classic infectious mononucleosis was prevalent in previously healthy children in Taiwan. Younger age involvement and seasonal clustering were characteristic of the disorder described. 
Mechanisms of visual spatial neglect. Absence of directional hypokinesia in spatial exploration. This study examines whether visuospatial neglect derives from failure in directing hand movements to the left (directional hypokinesia), or from loss of mental representation of the left side of space. Forty right brain-lesioned patients, 28 of whom revealed mild, moderate, or severe neglect in clock drawing and cancellation tasks, were asked to search for concealed targets on a stimulus display board, by either (1) moving a covering panel with a small window until the target appeared, or (2) moving the stimulus display board beneath a stationary covering panel until the target became visible through the window. In the second procedure, the direction of physical space exploration and hand movement is reversed, so that in order to bring a target from the right side of the stimulus into view (under the window) the entire display board had to be moved to the left. This pair of procedures was supplemented by an analogous pair of visual tasks in which the entire display board was visible during the search. As expected, response times were generally longer for targets located on the left side of the display board; however, the direction of required hand movement (left vs right) did not have a significant effect on response times, irrespective of the degree of clinically assessed neglect. 
Chimeric NGF-EGF receptors define domains responsible for neuronal differentiation. To determine the domains of the low-affinity nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor required for appropriate signal transduction, a series of hybrid receptors were constructed that consisted of the extracellular ligand-binding domain of the human epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR) fused to the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the human low-affinity NGF receptor (NGFR). Transfection of these chimeric receptors into rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells resulted in appropriate cell surface expression. Biological activity mediated by the EGF-NGF chimeric receptor was assayed by the induction of neurite outgrowth in response to EGF in stably transfected cells. Furthermore, the chimeric receptor mediated nuclear signaling, as evidenced by the specific induction of transin messenger RNA, an NGF-responsive gene. Neurite outgrowth was not observed with chimeric receptors that contained the transmembrane domain from the EGFR, suggesting that the membrane-spanning region and cytoplasmic domain of the low-affinity NGFR are necessary for signal transduction. 
Effects of percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy on levels of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide during exercise. To clarify the factors that influenced the secretion of human atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) during exercise, we studied the relations between the changes in ANP, transmitral pressure gradient, heart rate and blood pressure at exercise in 16 patients with mitral stenosis before and after percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (PTMC). Before PTMC, ANP levels increased from 107 +/- 70 to 183 +/- 96 pg/ml during exercise testing (p less than 0.01), concomitant with the increment in mean transmitral pressure gradient, heart rate and systolic blood pressure. After PTMC, ANP levels also increased from 78 +/- 43 to 117 +/- 64 pg/ml, concomitant with the increment of those parameters. However, increments of ANP, mean transmitral pressure gradient and heart rate after PTMC were lower than those before PTMC. Because the most important factor influencing the secretion of ANP was unclear, the differences between these parameters were calculated at submaximal exercise before and after PTMC. There was a significant relation only between the change in ANP and mean transmitral pressure gradient (r = 0.70, p less than 0.01). These results suggest that the most important factor influencing the secretion of ANP during exercise is the change in transmitral pressure gradient in patients with mitral stenosis. 
Self-administered hyperventilation cardiopulmonary resuscitation for 100 s of cardiac arrest during Holter monitoring. An 80-year-old man remained conscious due to vigorous deep breathing during 100 s of ventricular arrest which was recorded on a Holter ECG. Arterial blood flow is considered to have been maintained by changes in intrathoracic pressure produced by deep respiratory movements. This case may represent a pure model of the "thoracic pump" mechanism. 
Natural history of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia. The natural history of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN) was studied in 23 patients followed for at least 3 years with no treatment. The mean age of the patients was 41 years of age. A large proportion of the VAIN lesions (50%) were multifocal, and approximately one half of the lesions were associated with concomitant cervical or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. Progression to invasive vaginal carcinoma occurred in two (9%) cases, persistence of VAIN occurred in three (13%) cases, and regression of VAIN occurred in 18 (78%) cases. The risk for progression to invasive carcinoma emphasizes the significance of colposcopic examination of the vagina with directed biopsy specimens obtained from all lesions. 
Central retinal and posterior ciliary artery occlusion after particle embolization of the external carotid artery system. A 15-year-old boy underwent neuroradiologic embolization of the left internal maxillary artery with polyvinyl alcohol to stop traumatic epistaxis after failure of surgical clipping and nasal packing. Selective catheterization of the external carotid artery before embolization showed a faint choroidal blush. Although the procedure provided hemostasis, embolization to the central retinal artery and ciliary arteries resulted in loss of vision. The route of the emboli to the eye was via the anastomotic network of the lacrimal artery supplied by the external carotid artery system. Neuroradiologic embolization of the external carotid artery is an effective mode of therapy for dural-cavernous fistulas when fed by the external carotid artery system. Because the blood flow to the brain and eye is predominantly supplied by the internal carotid artery, embolization of the external carotid artery is considered relatively safe. The authors document the importance of recognition of the choroidal blush during selective external carotid artery angiography as a sign of collateral blood flow to the eye. Physicians and patients need to be aware of the risk of blindness as a complication of external carotid artery embolization when this sign is present. 
Functional domains of the poliovirus receptor. A number of mutant cDNAs of the human poliovirus receptor were constructed to identify essential regions of the molecule as the receptor. All mutant cDNAs carrying the sequence coding for the entire N-terminal immunoglobulin-like domain (domain I) confer permissiveness for poliovirus to mouse L cells, but a mutant cDNA lacking the sequence for domain I does not. The transformants permissive for poliovirus were able to bind the virus and were also recognized by monoclonal antibody D171, which competes with poliovirus for the cellular receptor. These results strongly suggest that the poliovirus binding site resides in domain I of the receptor. Mutant cDNAs for the sequence encoding the intracellular peptide were also constructed and expressed in mouse L cells. Susceptibility of these cells to poliovirus revealed that the entire putative cytoplasmic domain is not essential for virus infection. Thus, the cytoplasmic domain of the molecule appears not to play a role in the penetration of poliovirus. 
Resting energy expenditure in patients with pancreatitis. OBJECTIVE: To assess the resting energy expenditure of hospitalized patients with pancreatitis. DESIGN: Prospective, case-referent study. SETTING: Nutrition support service in a university tertiary care hospital. PATIENTS: Patients referred to the Nutrition Support Service with the diagnosis of pancreatitis. Excluded from study entry included those with cancer, obesity (greater than 150% ideal body weight), those measured within 3 postoperative days, or patients requiring ventilator support with an FIO2 of greater than 0.5. Forty-eight patients with either acute pancreatitis (n = 13), chronic pancreatitis (n = 24), acute pancreatitis with sepsis (n = 7), or chronic pancreatitis with sepsis (n = 7) were studied. The two septic groups were combined into a single pancreatitis-with-sepsis group, since no significant differences among measured variables were observed between individual septic groups. INTERVENTIONS: None. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Resting energy expenditure was measured by indirect calorimetry and compared with the predicted energy expenditure, as determined by the Harris-Benedict equations. Resting energy expenditure (percent of predicted energy expenditure) was significantly (p less than .02) greater for patients with pancreatitis complicated by sepsis (120 +/- 11%) compared with the nonseptic chronic pancreatitis group (105 +/- 14%). Resting energy expenditure for the nonseptic acute pancreatitis patients (112 +/- 17%) was not significantly different from the other groups. The septic pancreatitis group had the largest percentage (82%) of hypermetabolic (resting energy expenditure greater than 110% of predicted energy expenditure) patients, whereas 61% and 33% of the acute and chronic pancreatitis groups were hypermetabolic, respectively (p less than .02). CONCLUSIONS: Resting energy expenditure is variable in patients with pancreatitis (77% to 139% of predicted energy expenditure). The Harris-Benedict equations are an unreliable estimate of caloric expenditure. Septic complications are associated with hypermetabolism and may be the most important factor influencing resting energy expenditure in pancreatitis patients. 
MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial: interim results for symptomatic patients with severe (70-99%) or with mild (0-29%) carotid stenosis. European Carotid Surgery Trialists' Collaborative Group The European Carotid Surgery Trial is a multicentre trial of carotid endarterectomy for patients who, after a carotid territory non-disabling ischaemic stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or retinal infarct, are found to have a stenotic lesion in the relevant (ipsilateral) carotid artery. Over the past 10 years 2518 patients have been randomised, and the mean follow-up is now almost 3 years among the 2200 thus far available for analysis of the incidence of strokes that lasted more than 7 days. For the patients with "moderate" (30-69%) stenosis on their prerandomisation angiogram the balance of surgical risk and eventual benefit remains uncertain, and full recruitment continues. For 374 patients with only "mild" (0-29%) stenosis there was little 3-year risk of ipsilateral ischaemic stroke, even in the absence of surgery, so any 3-year benefits of surgery were small, and were outweighed by its early risks. For 778 patients with "severe" (70-99%) stenosis, however, the risks of surgery were significantly outweighed by the later benefits: although 7.5% had a stroke (or died) within 30 days of surgery, during the next 3 years the risks of ipsilateral ischaemic stroke were (by life-table analysis) an extra 2.8% for surgery-allocated and 16.8% for control patients (a sixfold reduction, p less than 0.0001). There was also a small reduction in other strokes, and at 3 years the total risk of surgical death, surgical stroke, ipsilateral ischaemic stroke, or any other stroke was 12.3% for surgery and 21.9% for control (difference 9.6% SD 3.3, 2p less than 0.01). The main concern was to avoid disabling or fatal events, and, among severe stenosis patients, 3.7% had a disabling stroke (or died) within 30 days of surgery, an extra 1.1% surgery versus 8.4% control (p less than 0.0001) had a disabling or fatal ipsilateral ischaemic stroke by 3 years, and the total 3-year risk of any disabling or fatal stroke (or surgical death) was 6.0% surgery versus 11.0% control (overall difference 5.0% SD 2.3, 2p less than 0.05); but, for disabling or fatal stroke the control risks seemed to diminish after the first year, so delay of surgery by just a few months after clinical presentation might make this overall difference non-significant. 
Relapsing transverse myelitis. Acute transverse myelitis is a monophasic disorder, the recurrence of which raises the question of multiple sclerosis (MS) or other multifocal CNS disease. We now report three patients with a previously undescribed syndrome of relapsing isolated acute transverse myelitis. Each had two to five attacks over periods of 3 to 8 years, characterized by ascending paresthesias, urinary retention, sensory loss with a thoracic or cervical level, paraparesis, hyperreflexia, and bilateral Babinski signs. MRI demonstrated areas of increased signal intensity on T2- and proton density-weighted scans and decreased signal intensity on T1-weighed scans of the cervical or thoracic spinal cord consistent with an inflammatory or demyelinating process. All patients had normal complete myelograms, oligoclonal IgG bands were consistently absent from the cerebrospinal fluid, cranial MRIs were normal, and there was no other clinical or laboratory evidence of MS, collagen-vascular disease, or active viral infection. They were treated with high doses of intravenous corticosteroids, stabilized between episodes, and had partial or complete recovery. The recognition of these three patients at a single medical center in a 1-year period suggests that relapses of acute transverse myelitis may not be rare. 
Clarification of the identity of the major M2 autoantigen in primary biliary cirrhosis. 1. In primary biliary cirrhosis, the major M2 autoantigen, reacting with antimitochondrial antibodies in sera from greater than 90% of patients, has been identified as the E2 component of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. However, two recent reports suggest that alternative polypeptides may be major autoantigens. 2. The evidence that a 75 kDa subunit of complex I of the respiratory chain is a major autoantigen (Frostell, Mendel-Hartvig, Nelson, Totterman, Bjorkland & Ragan, Scand. J. Immunol. 1988; 28, 157-65) is refuted. The findings of Frostell et al. can be explained by contamination of complex I with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, evidence for which is presented here. 3. Inspection of the partial amino acid sequence of an unidentified mitochondrial autoantigen (Muno, Kominami, Ishii, Usui, Saituku, Sakakibara & Namihisa, Hepatology 1990; 11, 16-23) shows that it is the E1 beta-subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, previously identified as a major autoantigen, and not a 'new' alternative major autoantigen. 4. These findings substantiate previous work showing that the mitochondrial M2 autoantigens identified so far in primary biliary cirrhosis are all polypeptide components of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex or the other related 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes. 
A randomized comparative study of laser photocoagulation, heater probe, and bipolar electrocoagulation in the treatment of actively bleeding ulcers. A randomized study was performed to compare the efficacy of Nd:YAG laser, heater probe, and bipolar electrocoagulation in the treatment of active bleeding from peptic ulcers. Nine hundred and forty-eight consecutive patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding underwent endoscopy and 91 patients with active bleeding from peptic ulcer were randomized to receive laser (N = 30), heater probe (N = 31), and bipolar electrocoagulation (N = 30). The angulation of the probe to the ulcer base was assessed at endoscopy. The three treatment groups were comparable in their clinical and endoscopic characteristics. There was no significant difference among patients treated with laser, heater probe, and bipolar electrocoagulation in the rate of re-bleeding (10%, 19.4%, and 10%), duration of hospital stay (4, 4, and 5 days), and proportion requiring emergency surgery (7%, 13%, and 7%), but the cost per patient was higher with laser than heater probe and bipolar electrocoagulation. The angulation of the probe to the ulcer base did not affect the re-bleeding rate. No complication was reported. We conclude that the three modalities were equally effective and safe in endoscopic hemostasis but because bipolar electrocoagulation and heater probe were cheaper, they were recommended for use. 
Occlusive and reperfused myocardial infarcts: MR imaging differentiation with nonionic Gd-DTPA-BMA. To increase the time during which effective contrast exists between normal and infarcted myocardium, a high dose (0.6 mmol/kg) of the nonionic contrast medium gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid bismethylamide (Gd-DTPA-BMA) was used to distinguish between occlusive and reperfused myocardial infarctions in rats. After administration of Gd-DTPA-BMA, there was clear and persistent demarcation of both occlusive and reperfused infarcts on T1-weighted MR images. In occlusive infarcts, normal, infarcted, and periinfarcted myocardium could be identified. High signal intensity was evident for 60 minutes in a band straddling the border between infarcted and normal myocardium, namely, the periinfarction zone. In the reperfused infarct, normal and infarcted myocardium could be identified. The reperfused zone was immediately enhanced after injection of Gd-DTPA-BMA. A differential pattern of enhancement between occlusive and reperfused myocardial infarcts was evident for 1 hour. Thus, Gd-DTPA-BMA has the potential to allow (a) depiction of occlusive and reperfused acute myocardial infarcts, (b) documentation of reperfusion of myocardial infarction, and (c) distinction between occlusive and reperfused infarction. 
Update on thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. There is a continuum of clinical research in thrombolytic therapy that will eventually evolve into the most effective regimen to chemically open a thrombosed artery. Numerous previous clinical trials, a number of ongoing trials, and planned future trials are shown in a list of acronyms and their translations as a convenience for identifying the trials. 
Discontinuation of phenytoin and carbamazepine in patients receiving felbamate. Five patients participated in a controlled discontinuation of phenytoin (PHT) and carbamazepine (CBZ) after a study in which all subjects had felbamate (FBM) added to both PHT and CBZ. Four subjects (three women and 1 man aged 23-36 years) completed the protocol. Mean total seizure frequency per day with PHT and CBZ was 1.33 +/- 0.93 (mean +/- SEM), decreasing to 0.87 +/- 0.71 with addition of FBM, and 0.82 +/- 0.78 after discontinuation of PHT. Only one subject tolerated discontinuation of CBZ; the other three had dosage reductions of 33, 54, and 63%. Toxicity attributable to FBM was not observed, and patients often described less severe seizures. Results from four refractory patients indicated that FBM was able to replace PHT and reduce the need for CBZ. In addition, as PHT dosages were reduced, FBM clearance decreased 21%. As the CBZ dosages were reduced. FBM clearance decreased an additional 16.5%. 
Immunocytological diagnosis of primary cerebral non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Four men with primary cerebral non-Hodgkin's lymphoma diagnosed by immunocytological analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) presented with cranial nerve palsies. All had CSF lymphocytoses and low CSF glucose. The cell phenotypes were two T cell tumours, one B cell, and one null. A review of 13 previously recorded cases of immunocytologically diagnosed CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma showed that there were 10 B cell, two T cell, and one null tumour. Overall (17 cases) the cell phenotype distribution was 65% B cell, 24% T cell, and 11% null. High CSF lymphocyte counts were found in 94%, proteinosis in 85%, and low CSF glucose in 87%. In contrast to the B cell tumours, all of the T cell tumours were diagnosed by CSF cytology before being visualised radiologically. It is suggested that all CSF lymphocytes (greater than 5 x 10(6)/ml) should be immunohistochemically typed to permit earlier diagnosis of CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. 
Surface appearance and instability of empty H-2 class I molecules under physiological conditions. Recent evidence suggests that endogenously produced antigenic peptides are required for assembly of major histocompatibility complex class I chains with beta 2-microglobulin and transport to the cell surface. The RMA-S mutant cells are thought to be defective in intracellular peptide loading to class I molecules and, therefore, devoid of class I surface expression. Here we report that at physiological temperature (37 degrees C) "empty" class I molecules appear at the cell surface of RMA-S cells where they can be trapped with H-2 antibodies. In the absence of the stabilizing ligand, the class I molecules rapidly alter their conformation but remain at the cell surface as demonstrated with a rabbit antiserum. Such denatured H-2 molecules can also be found on normal wild-type RMA cells. However, their amount is strongly reduced after culture of RMA cells with a class I binding peptide. These findings indicate that empty class I molecules appear at the surface not only on mutant but also on normal cells, suggesting that in normal cells the supply with peptides is limited. 
Temporal bone findings in a family with branchio-oto-renal syndrome (BOR). A family group with confirmed branchio-oto-renal (BOR) syndrome was investigated in this study. Computerized tomography of the temporal bones has demonstrated that the malformations of the inner ear consist of hypoplastic structural changes within the cochlea with reduced vertical diameters, and absent or hypoplastic semicircular canals and normal endolymphatic ducts. It is concluded that in the present cases, the Mondini malformation of the cochlea is not associated with the BOR syndrome. 
Melanoma tumor vaccine: five-year follow-up. For many years, various melanoma vaccines have been employed. This is a unique melanoma vaccine in that it is a subcellular tumor homogenate and no adjuvants have been added. This vaccine has been given to 129 stage I and 61 stage II melanoma patients. All were followed at least 5 years and had 87.5% and 63.9% 5-year survival rates, respectively. Sixty-four stage I males and 65 stage I females had 84% and 90% 5-year survival rates, respectively. We saw no difference between those with or without lymph node dissection. Thirty-six stage II males and 25 stage II females had 66.7% and 60% 5-year survival rates, respectively. Of stage II patients, 23 had only one positive node, 22 had two to four positive nodes, and 9 had five or more positive nodes with 69%, 63%, and 55% 5-year survival rates, respectively. Large published series were used as historical controls [6,27,28], and significant differences were noted when compared to our stage II patients (P = 0.001)--those with two to four positive nodes (P = 0.03), and those with five or more positive nodes (P = 0.04). We conclude that there is a significant increase in survival for these stage II patients, at high risk of recurrence, receiving a tumor homogenate vaccine. This vaccine warrants further analysis, development, and use in a phase III randomized clinical trial. 
Reoperative pulmonary resection in patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcoma Resection of pulmonary metastases from soft tissue sarcoma has been shown to be associated with a 3-year survival of 25% to 30%. The role of multiple resections for recurrent pulmonary metastases, however, has not been clearly defined. Since 1976, 43 patients have had two or more thoracic explorations for the purpose of resecting pulmonary metastases from adult soft tissue sarcoma at our institution. In 89 reexplorations, through either median sternotomy or lateral thoracotomy, the operative mortality was 0%, and 31 of the 43 patients (72%) could be rendered free of disease at the second thoracotomy. Median survival from the second thoracotomy for the patients with resectable disease was 25 months, whereas median survival of patients who had unresectable disease was 10 months. A disease-free interval between the first and second thoracotomies of greater than 18 months was associated with prolonged survival from the second thoracotomy. Owing to lack of other therapies with proven salvage efficacy and in the absence of randomized trials, repeated thoracotomies to render patients free of disease from pulmonary soft-tissue sarcoma metastases appear justified considering the potential survival benefit and low attendant risk. 
Intracellular calcium transients in myocardium from spontaneously hypertensive rats during the transition to heart failure. To investigate the mechanism of impaired myocardial function after long-term pressure overload, we studied cardiac muscle mechanical contraction and intracellular calcium transients using the bioluminescent indicator aequorin. Left ventricular papillary muscle preparations were examined from three groups of rats: 1) aging spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with clinical and pathological evidence suggesting heart failure (SHR-F group), 2) age-matched SHRs with no evidence of heart failure (SHR-NF group), and 3) age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY group). Isometric force development was depressed in both SHR groups relative to the WKY group. Resting [Ca2+]i was lower in the SHR-F group, and the time to peak [Ca2+]i was prolonged in this group. The relative increases in peak [Ca2+]i with the inotropic interventions of increased [Ca2+]o and the addition of isoproterenol were similar among groups. Although inotropy increased in all groups with increased [Ca2+]o, after isoproterenol, inotropy increased only in the WKY group. Thus, in SHR myocardium, [Ca2+]i increased after isoproterenol, but inotropy failed to increase. Myosin isozymes were shifted toward the V3 isoform in both SHR groups; the V3 isoform was virtually 100% in papillary muscles from the SHR-F group. These changes may reflect events directly contributing to the development of heart failure or represent adaptive changes to chronic pressure overload and heart failure. 
A video system for investigating breathing disorders during sleep. A system has been developed for investigating breathing during sleep that superimposes physiological signals on a video image of the patient, with the combined image plus sound recorded on video tape for later analysis. Signals normally displayed include oxygen saturation, airflow, chest wall motion, electroencephalogram, and electrooculogram; but others can be recorded if desired. The information is displayed on a timebase appropriate for the recognition and analysis of respiratory events during sleep. In addition, use is made of normally invisible video lines to record the analogue voltage waveforms so that on replay this information can be displayed on a fast timebase for analysing the more rapidly changing waveforms of electrophysiological signals. The system allows detailed polysomnography to be performed in the normal ward setting with the subject monitored overnight by the nursing staff. Subsequent analysis of the synchronised video, audio, and analogue signals allows measurement of the conventional indices obtained by polysomnography and aids their interpretation. 
Events in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST): mortality in patients surviving open label titration but not randomized to double-blind therapy. The patient characteristics and outcomes were studied in the 318 patients who survived open label drug titration in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) and who were not randomized to double-blind therapy and in 942 patients, who were randomized to double-blind placebo therapy. The patients randomized to placebo therapy had a lower total mortality or resuscitated cardiac arrest rate (4% vs. 8.5%). However, at baseline, nonrandomized patients were dissimilar from patients randomized to placebo in the following ways: older; lower left ventricular ejection fraction; greater use of digitalis, diuretic drugs and antihypertensive agents; lesser use of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents and more frequent prior cardiac problems, including runs of ventricular tachycardia and left bundle branch block. A matched comparison that took these inequities into account showed no significant differences in mortality or rate of resuscitation from cardiac arrest between nonrandomized patients and clinically equivalent patients randomized to placebo. Cox regression analysis indicated that two factors significantly increased the hazard ratio for arrhythmic death or resuscitated cardiac arrest in the nonrandomized patients: female gender (4.7, p less than 0.05) and electrocardiographic events (ventricular tachycardia, proarrhythmia, widened QRS complex, heart block, bradycardia) during open label titration (7.0, p less than 0.005). However, some potentially important differences between men and women were not included in the Cox regression model. Of the nonrandomized patients, approximately 70% were not randomized because of lack of suppression of ventricular premature depolarizations or adverse events, or both, and the remaining 30% because of patient or private physician request with no indication of another reason. 
Quantification of cell kinetic characteristics using flow cytometric measurements of deoxyribonucleic acid and bromodeoxyuridine for bladder cancer. A total of 56 human bladder tumors that were histologically proved to be transitional cell carcinoma was analyzed by simultaneous flow cytometric 2-color measurements of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and bromodeoxyuridine. Bromodeoxyuridine in vitro labeling was performed by sample incubation with bromodeoxyuridine under high atmospheric pressure oxygen. Grade 1 tumors showed 33.3% aneuploidy with a mean bromodeoxyuridine positive stained ratio (labeling index) of 5.1 +/- 3.4%. Grade 2 tumors featured 51.7% aneuploidy with a mean labeling index of 8.9 +/- 7.7%. On the other hand, a markedly increased labeling index of 15.2 +/- 8.2% with aneuploidy was observed in all but 1 grade 3 tumors. When DNA ploidy and labeling indexes were compared according to the presence or absence of muscular invasion of tumors, all 16 muscle invasive tumors showed aneuploidy (mean labeling index 18.7 +/- 8.0%), while 17 of 40 nonmuscle invasive tumors showed aneuploidy (mean labeling index 8.6 +/- 5.4%). This labeling index difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.01). These results indicate that bromodeoxyuridine/DNA 2-color flow cytometry may provide an objective parameter for quantification of the malignant potential of bladder cancers. 
Development of a computer-aided surgery system: three-dimensional graphic reconstruction for treatment of liver cancer. Simulation of the needle puncture and volume estimation for the tumors in the liver were carried out with the three-dimensional image reconstruction system, which consists of a medical image acquisition system, a data processing system, and a graphic display. A set of sliced-image data from a computerized tomography and/or a magnetic resonance imaging was used to reconstruct the liver, the vessels, and the tumors of the patients with liver cancer. A good agreement of anatomic locations of both the intrahepatic vessels and the tumors between the reconstructed liver model and the echography done intraoperatively was observed. Surgical simulations with these graphic models clearly indicated safety areas for needle puncture in the laser coagulation therapy. In addition liver volumes were calculated within 3% of error in comparison to the measured values. These results indicate that the computer-aided surgery system is a highly promising method that avoids cumbersome stereoscopic recognition of the anatomical location of the diseased area and the vessels, before and after surgery. 
External annular prosthesis in repair of biliary tract stricture. A surgical technique for treatment of benign intrahepatic or extrahepatic biliary stenosis is described. It is based on the use of annular prostheses of Teflon placed around the outside of the anastomotic line using appropriate surgical instruments. This procedure leaves the blood supply to the bile duct intact, achieves hermetic apposition of epithelia, and prevents leakage of bile. It eliminates the use of intraductal splints, avoids retraction of scar tissue around the anastomotic zone, and increases or maintains the internal diameter of the biliary duct on the anastomotic line. The technique has been used in 33 patients with follow-up from 1 to 10 years. Excellent results were achieved in 32 patients, with 1 patient having a poor result. The average postoperative hospital stay was only 6 days. 
Adrenal rest carcinoma in hilum of kidney. Adrenocortical rests are uncommon in adults and infrequently undergo malignant changes. Most of the published cases are those of functional tumors allowing preoperative diagnosis on the basis of the resulting endocrinopathy. Most nonfunctioning tumors were found accidentally at operation or autopsy. A case is presented of a parapelvic nonfunctioning adrenocortical rest carcinoma situated in the renal hilus in a fifty-year-old woman. No such tumor has been described previously. 
A qualitative approach to primary care research: the long interview. Qualitative research methods offer useful complements to the traditional epidemiologic approaches most commonly used by primary care researchers. Narrative texts generated through open-ended interviews are one form of qualitative data that may provide useful insights into primary care issues that are otherwise overlooked by more structured designs. This paper presents a step-by-step process for conducting a long interview, a qualitative approach with distinct potential for primary care research. Advantages and limitations of the long interview and its relationship to other qualitative methods are also discussed. 
Evidence of a selective increase in cardiac sympathetic activity in patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias BACKGROUND. Although enhanced efferent cardiac sympathetic nervous activity has been proposed as an important factor in the genesis of ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death, direct clinical evidence has been lacking. METHODS. We measured the rates of total and cardiac norepinephrine spillover into the plasma, which reflect respectively overall and cardiac sympathetic nervous activity, in 12 patients who had recovered from a spontaneous, sustained episode of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation outside the hospital 4 to 48 days earlier. The results were compared with those from three age-matched reference groups without a history of ventricular arrhythmias: 12 patients with coronary artery disease, 6 patients with chest pain but normal coronary arteries, and 12 healthy, normal subjects. RESULTS. The patients who had had ventricular arrhythmias had reduced left ventricular ejection fractions, as compared with the patients with coronary artery disease or chest pain (mean [+/- SE], 46 +/- 3 percent vs. 58 +/- 4 percent and 69 +/- 5 percent, respectively; P less than 0.003). The rates of total norepinephrine spillover into the plasma were similar in the three reference groups, but 80 percent higher in the patients with ventricular arrhythmias (P less than 0.005). The rate of cardiac norepinephrine spillover was 450 percent higher in these patients (176 +/- 39 pmol per minute, as compared with 32 +/- 8 pmol per minute in the normal subjects; P less than 0.001), a disproportionate increase relative to the increase in total spillover, which indicated selective activation of the cardiac sympathetic outflow. This increase in cardiac norepinephrine spillover was probably caused by a reduction in left ventricular function. CONCLUSIONS. These results suggest that in some patients major ventricular arrhythmias are associated with and perhaps caused by sustained and selective cardiac sympathetic activation. We speculate that depressed ventricular function was present before the ventricular arrhythmia occurred, and that this resulted in reflex cardiac sympathetic activation, which in turn contributed to the genesis of the arrhythmia. 
Bezold-Jarisch reflex in postoperative pediatric cardiac surgical patients. The Bezold-Jarisch reflex is an inhibitory reflex that originates from the heart, is mediated by the vagus nerve, and is manifested by hypotension and bradycardia. We present 4 pediatric cardiac surgical patients, aged 1 day to 9 months, who exhibited cardiovascular collapse in their early postoperative course. In each patient, cardiovascular deterioration was marked by an insidious decrease in arterial blood pressure without an associated change in heart rate, central venous pressure, or airway pressure. Bradycardia followed the decrease in blood pressure. The Bezold-Jarisch reflex was suspected and atropine was administered, first as a bolus injection at 0.01 mg/kg, and later, as a continuous infusion at 0.01 mg.kg-1.h-1. Atropine prevented recurrent episodes of hypotension and bradycardia. We believe the Bezold-Jarisch reflex is more prevalent than previously suspected in postoperative pediatric cardiac surgical patients. 
Sonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Acute appendicitis can be a diagnostic dilemma. The classic triad of leukocytosis, pain at McBurney's point and a history compatible with appendicitis has a diagnostic accuracy rate of only 80 percent. Ultrasonography, combined with this triad, can improve the diagnostic accuracy, decreasing the negative laparotomy rate from 20 percent to less than 10 percent. 
Mycotic aneurysms of the carotid arteries--case report and review of the literature. Mycotic aneurysms of the extracranial carotid arteries are rare. We report a new case with a mycotic aneurysm of the carotid bifurcation associated with acute bacterial endocarditis of the aortic valve. A concomitant treatment of both lesions was performed. Twenty-six cases of mycotic aneurysms of the extracranial carotid arteries have been reported in the literature. We present a review of all these cases. 
Prevalence of proximal faecal stasis in active ulcerative colitis. Proximal faecal stasis may occur when faecal matter accumulates in the uninflamed colon above an area of active ulcerative colitis. This phenomenon is thought to be the cause of symptoms in some patients with distal disease. It is not known, however, how often patients with active distal colitis exhibit slow colonic transit. Fifty two consecutive patients with active ulcerative colitis each ingested 10 radio-opaque markers nightly for 14 days. Minimum colonic transit times were derived from counts of retained markers shown by plain abdominal radiography on the 15th day. The transit times for each patient were related to their disease extent and bowel frequency. Four patients had colonic transit times greater than one week and two others had evidence of relative stasis. The results indicate that approximately 10% of attacks of distal colitis are associated with faecal stasis. 
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas: a multimodality approach--a single surgeon's experience (1979-1988). A retrospective review of a single surgeon's experience with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas was performed. One hundred-one patients were treated over a 10-year period from 1979 to 1988. Seven patients underwent potentially curative resections and 28 patients presented with metastatic (stage IV) disease. Sixty-four patients had locally advanced and unresectable primary lesions. A total of 51 patients received I-125 seed implantation. There was no statistically significant difference in morbidity (33% vs. 30%) or mortality (6% vs. 8%) between patients receiving I-125 implantation and those undergoing palliative surgical procedures without implantation. Operative mortality was highest in patients presenting with stage IV lesions (11%). In those patients with locally advanced and unresectable carcinomas, there was a nonsignificant increase in survival (12.8 mo vs. 10.7 mo) in those receiving intraoperative I-125 implants when compared to those who did not when both groups received postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy and external beam radiotherapy. Based on these encouraging results, it is concluded that I-125 implantation can be performed safely and shows a trend toward improving long-term survivorship in patients with locally advanced pancreatic carcinoma when used in conjunction with chemotherapy and external beam radiation. 
Head-up tilt for the evaluation of syncope of unknown origin in children. Fifteen patients aged 10 to 18 years with syncope of unknown origin, and 10 healthy control children aged 11 to 18 years, were evaluated by head-up tilt to 60 degrees for 60 minutes. Six patients (43%) reproduced symptoms of syncope during the examination. Four had a typical vasovagal reaction; two had marked hyperventilation. None of the children in the control group had syncope. The head-up tilt test offers a simple, noninvasive, high-yielding diagnostic tool for evaluation of syncope in children. 
Analysis and interpretation of treatment effects in subgroups of patients in randomized clinical trials. A key principle for interpretation of subgroup results is that quantitative interactions (differences in degree) are much more likely than qualitative interactions (differences in kind). Quantitative interactions are likely to be truly present whether or not they are apparent, whereas apparent qualitative interactions should generally be disbelieved as they have usually not been replicated consistently. Therefore, the overall trial result is usually a better guide to the direction of effect in subgroups than the apparent effect observed within a subgroup. Failure to specify prior hypotheses, to account for multiple comparisons, or to correct P values increases the chance of finding spurious subgroup effects. Conversely, inadequate sample size, classification of patients into the wrong subgroup, and low power of tests of interaction make finding true subgroup effects difficult. We recommend examining the architecture of the entire set of subgroups within a trial, analyzing similar subgroups across independent trials, and interpreting the evidence in the context of known biologic mechanisms and patient prognosis. 
Ventricular dysfunction does occur during liver transplantation. Ventricular dysfunction, then, does indeed occur during liver transplantation, particularly at the time of reperfusion. Pulmonary embolism contributes to right ventricular and right atrial encroachment on left-heart filling, and paradoxical embolism may occur. Pericardial effusions, tricuspid regurgitation, hypothermia, and the release of substances, particularly potassium from the donor liver, may further contribute to compromises in ventricular function. Proper monitoring and appropriate treatment, however, lead to successful operative outcomes in most cases. 
Impact of variability among surgeons on postoperative morbidity and mortality and ultimate survival. OBJECTIVE--To assess the differences among surgeons in postoperative complications, postoperative mortality, and survival in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. DESIGN--Prospective study of patients with colorectal cancer managed by one of 13 consultant surgeons, none of whom had a special interest in colorectal surgery. SETTING--Royal Infirmary, Glasgow. PATIENTS--645 sequential patients with colorectal cancer presenting over the six years from 1974 to 1979. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Postoperative complications, postoperative mortality (within 30 days), and survival (up to 10 years); predictive factors for postoperative mortality and survival; and relative hazard rate ratios for individual surgeons. RESULTS--The proportion of patients undergoing apparently curative resection varied among surgeons from 40% to 76%; overall postoperative mortality varied from 8% to 30%. After curative resection postoperative mortality varied from 0% to 20%, local recurrence from 0% to 21%, and the rate of anastomotic leak from 0% to 25%. Survival at 10 years in patients who underwent curative resection varied from 20% to 63%, two year survival in those who underwent palliative resection varied from 7% to 32%, and median survival in those who underwent palliative diversion varied from one to eight months. The hazard rate ratios among individual surgeons, taking into account the identified risk factors, varied from 0.56 to 2.03, from 0.17 to 1.92, and from 0.57 to 1.50 for curative resection, palliative resection, and palliative diversion, respectively. CONCLUSION--There were significant variations in patient outcome among surgeons after surgery for colorectal cancer; such differences compromise survival. A considerable improvement in overall survival might be achieved if such surgery were undertaken by surgeons with a special interest in colorectal surgery or surgical oncology. 
Effects of alfentanil and fentanyl on induction of anaesthesia in patients with severe pregnancy-induced hypertension. Forty patients with severe pregnancy-induced hypertension presenting for Caesarean section under general anaesthesia were allocated randomly to receive either fentanyl 2.5 micrograms kg-1 or alfentanil 10 micrograms kg-1 as part of the anaesthetic induction sequence. In all patients, the cardiovascular response to tracheal intubation was measured. Both drugs attenuated the response equally but did not abolish it in all patients. Alfentanil 10 micrograms kg-1 is a suitable alternative to fentanyl 2.5 micrograms kg-1 for patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension. 
Hemangioma of the nasal vault: MR and CT features. Six patients with a history of epistaxis (five patients) or nasal obstruction (one patient) were found to have a capillary hemangioma of the nasal vault that involved one or more nasal turbinates. Four patients underwent computed tomographic (CT) examination; two of these also underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Four others underwent only MR imaging. At CT and MR, all of the lesions were well circumscribed and intensely enhancing, with contralateral deviation of the nasal septum. Remodeling of the surrounding bone was present in three patients. On T1-weighted MR images, the masses were intermediate in signal intensity. Varying degrees of T2 shortening were shown on T2-weighted MR images, with an appearance that suggested the presence of blood products surrounding an inner matrix of higher-signal-intensity tumor. Intense enhancement at CT and MR assisted differentiation of tumor from retained sinonasal secretions. In two patients, external carotid arteriography revealed small foci of pooling contrast material; in one of these patients, arteriovenous shunting was also present. Pathologic examination in all patients demonstrated capillary hemangiomas with varying degrees of fibrosis and hemosiderin deposition. 
Sarcomatous change in a teratoma after treatment of testicular carcinoma. Treatment can transform the metastases of nonseminomatous germ cell carcinoma into histologically mature teratoma. These lesions typically have a benign clinical course. The authors present a case of leiomyosarcoma occurring within such a lesion. It arose 18 years after therapy for metastatic embryonal carcinoma of the testis and appears to have been radiation induced. 
Ossicular chain reconstruction: a combined prosthesis with organic and synthetic material. The surgical techniques to restore the sound pressure transfer mechanism in surgery of chronic otitis media are still in an evolutionary stage. Ossicular interposition is effective and certainly is not controversial. The use of various organic prostheses has been criticized. The prosthesis with a shaft of Teflon and a homograft bone flange is an alternative method which has been successful in our hands. 
Polycystic ovaries: do these represent a specific endocrinopathy? Serum pituitary gonadotrophins, oestradiol, testosterone and insulin pulse patterns were examined at 15-min intervals for 6 h in 40 women with a previous diagnosis of polycystic ovarian disease (PCO) based on clinical, endocrinological and ultrasound data. Age, duration of symptoms, body mass index (BMI) and ovarian volume showed no correlation with the 6-h mean value of any hormone and testosterone blood levels did not correlate with those of insulin. Some patients had high and others low LH pulse pattern components, and few had an inverted LH:FSH ratio. Morphological polycystic ovarian changes may be a reflection of various rather than a single pattern of gonadotrophin secretion. 
Interferon-gamma inhibits arterial stenosis after injury. BACKGROUND. Arterial injury initiates a proliferative response among the smooth muscle cells of the artery. This leads to the formation of a thickened intima that may reduce the diameter of the arterial lumen. Such intimal lesions often develop after vascular surgery and angioplastic procedures. Previous cell culture studies have shown that the lymphokine, interferon-gamma (gIFN), inhibits smooth muscle cell proliferation. METHODS AND RESULTS. We therefore tested whether administration of exogenous gIFN could inhibit the development of intimal lesions. Rat carotid arteries were denuded with a balloon catheter, resulting in the formation of a standardized intimal lesion. The animals were then treated with recombinant rat gIFN at 200,000 units (approximately 400,000 units or 100 micrograms/kg body wt) administered parenterally once daily for 7 days. Autoradiographic analysis of 3H-thymidine incorporation revealed that gIFN reduced the early smooth muscle replication by approximately 75%. gIFN treatment for 1 week resulted in a 50% reduction of intimal cross-section area at 2 weeks after injury when compared to control rats injected with buffer alone. The difference in lesion development persisted in rats analyzed 10 weeks after injury, suggesting that proliferative events during the first week determine the long-term development of the intima. Inhibition of lesion development was accompanied by expression of the class II histocompatibility (Ia) gene, RT1B, suggesting that both were directly related to the administration of gIFN. CONCLUSIONS. These results show that gIFN is a potent inhibitor of the formation of arterial proliferative lesions in vivo. It is possible that gIFN could be useful in preventing arterial stenosis after surgery and angioplasty in man. 
Genetic susceptibility to Parkinson's disease. Genetic factors clearly cause Lewy-body Parkinson's disease (PD) in a subset of autosomal-dominant families. However, most cases of PD are sporadic. The two most likely models of four discussed for sporadic PD are the reduced penetrance model and the multifactorial model. Sporadic PD is likely to be caused by the combined effect of environmental precipitating factors and genetic susceptibility factors. Because the number of major genetic factors is likely to be small, these hypotheses can be tested and genetic factors located using linkage mapping techniques. The affected pair analysis methods are especially suited to PD. Finding the genetic susceptibility factors for PD is important because this may be the fastest way to identify the environmental precipitating factors and because it may lead to prevention of PD. Because of the usefulness of identifying genetic susceptibility factors for PD, we are carrying out linkage studies in a group of 16 large autosomal-dominant families with PD and more than 300 living affected PD pairs. 
Changes in neutrophil met-enkephalin containing peptides in episodic cluster headache. We have previously demonstrated an increase in plasma met-enkephalin levels during the pain attacks in episodic cluster headache. The present study was undertaken in order to clarify the source of the plasma met-enkephalin increase. Recent evidence has shown that peripheral blood polymorphonuclear cells contain peptides derived from the proenkephalin A system, which can be released by specific stimuli. We studied neutrophil met-enkephalin containing peptides (NMECP) in 27 episodic cluster headache patients: 24 in a cluster period (6 of them during a pain attack), and 3 in the remission period. Neutrophil met-enkephalin containing peptide levels (after sequential enzymatic digestion with trypsin and carboxypeptidase B) were determined by radioimmunoassay with specific antiserum. Neutrophil peptide concentration (pmol/mg prot) was lower (p less than 0.01) in patients during the pain attack (14.4 +/- 0.36) than after their pain had subsided (36.7 +/- 0.31) and lower than in the remission period patients (35.8 +/- 0.4). We conclude that neutrophil met-enkephalin containing peptides decrease during pain in episodic cluster headache, and that they may be involved in the concomitant plasma met-enkephalin increase. 
Early abdominal complications following heart and heart-lung transplantation. In the first 11 years of the heart and heart-lung transplantation programme at Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, 356 patients underwent heart transplantation, and 73 patients received both heart and lungs. Out of 429 patients 41 (9.5 per cent) developed abdominal complications within the first 30 days, and 20 of the 41 required surgery. The complications included pancreatitis (10), peptic ulceration (8), and pseudo-obstruction (8), in addition to colonic perforation and small bowel obstruction. When laparotomy was performed it was well tolerated. This paper supports the view that successful management of abdominal complications following transplantation requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. Where doubt exists in the presence of an acute abdomen, laparotomy is the appropriate way to establish a definitive diagnosis. 
Acute and chronic hemodynamic effects of xamoterol in mild to moderate congestive heart failure. Xamoterol, a new beta 1 partial agonist, has the potential to modulate cardiac response to variations in sympathetic tone in patients with heart failure. Its properties should result in beta-receptor stimulatory effects at low levels of sympathetic tone and beta-receptor protective effects at higher levels of sympathetic tone. The acute effects of intravenous (i.v.) xamoterol on hemodynamics at rest and during exercise were studied in 30 patients with mild to moderate heart failure (13 patients in New York Heart Association class II; 17 in class III) due to ischemic (n = 24) or cardiomyopathic (n = 6) heart disease. Cardiac index, stroke volume and stroke work index at rest were significantly improved after i.v. administration of xamoterol and consistent with net agonist effects. During exercise, heart rate and double product were significantly reduced (net antagonist effects), but with preservation of the expected increases in cardiac index and systolic blood pressure. These hemodynamic findings confirm the ability of xamoterol to modulate cardiac response to variations in sympathetic tone. Tachyphylaxis and arrhythmogenicity limit the chronic use of drugs with full beta-agonist properties as positive inotropes in heart failure. The patients were therefore entered into a 6-month double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of chronic oral xamoterol therapy, 200 mg twice daily, and the hemodynamic responses to i.v. xamoterol were repeated at the end of the trial. No impairment in either resting or exercise effects was observed, indicative of a maintained response and absence of tachyphylaxis after chronic therapy. Furthermore, 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring showed no change in ventricular arrhythmias during oral treatment. 
Ewing's sarcoma in children: twenty-five years of experience at the Instituto Portuges de Oncologia de Francisco Gentil (I.P.O.F.G.). Fifty children with Ewing's sarcoma were consecutively treated from 1962 to 1987 and retrospectively analyzed at the I.P.O.F.G. of Lisbon. At first diagnosis, 10 cases had distant metastases. The remaining 40 patients had clinically localized disease, and different protocols were followed over the years. The best results were obtained with chemotherapy and radiotherapy with or without surgery; and for these children the two-year survival rate was 42.8% vs. 8.3% for the group of patients submitted to local treatment alone. Besides the treatment modality, other factors influenced the prognosis, such as inflammatory signs, sex, tumor volume, and tumor site as well as evidence of distant metastases. 
The role of epidermal growth factor in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease. Duodenal biopsies obtained from seven normal subjects and six ulcerous patients were cultured in vitro for 30 min at 37 degrees C under various experimental conditions. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) and somatostatin released in the culture medium were determined by radioimmunoassay. Under basal conditions, EGF and somatostatin levels were significantly higher in normal subjects (11.49 +/- 3.07 ng/mg protein and 3.06 +/- 0.8 ng/mg protein, respectively) than in ulcerous patients (6.9 +/- 1.98 ng/mg protein and 1.75 +/- 1.23 ng/mg protein, respectively). However, when antibodies to somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) were added together to the culture media, in ulcerous patients, EGF levels also were lower as absolute values, but were higher as a percentage of variation than controls (p less than 0.05). The fall of EGF secretion from tissue cultures of ulcerous patients could be the consequence of endocrine cellular loss or damage, rather than the cause of ulceration. Moreover, the EGF-producing cells around the lesion in ulcerous patients seems to be hyperactive, and this hyperfunction of EGF-producing cells might contribute to the in vivo repair of tissue damage. 
Validation of hourly pain intensity profiles with chronic pain patients. This study examines how empirically derived pain intensity profiles relate to psychological adjustment in chronic pain patients. Hourly pain intensity ratings over the course of a day of 189 chronic pain patients were categorized into 6 groups using a hierarchical regression analysis technique. The profiles reflected linear, curvilinear, multilinear or "no profile" effects. Judges' ratings of pain intensity profiles were found to be less reliable than ratings based on empirical analysis. The majority of patients showed linear profiles while 26% of the patients showed no consistent relationship between hourly pain intensity and time of day. Patients who showed no consistent trend in their pain ratings reported having significantly higher ratings of emotional distress. They tended to have conflicts at home and showed more pain behavior than patients who had a distinct pain profile. Support is given for the potential clinical utility of pain rating profiles. 
Intrathoracic complications following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: CT findings. The authors retrospectively reviewed computed tomographic (CT) scans of 18 patients who developed 21 episodes of intrathoracic complications after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Pathologic and/or microbiologic diagnoses were available for all patients. All patients were immunocompromised due to either graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), neutropenia, or recurrent malignancy after BMT. CT demonstrated diagnostically relevant findings that were not apparent at radiography in 12 of the 21 cases (57%). These included a ground-glass pattern in early pneumonia (n = 5); a peripheral distribution in GVHD, bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia, and eosinophilic drug reaction (n = 4); cavitating lesions in Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (n = 1); hemorrhagic infarcts in aspergillosis (n = 1); and mediastinal adenopathy in recurrent Hodgkin disease (n = 1). The authors conclude that chest CT is superior to radiography in demonstrating the presence, distribution, and extent of intrathoracic complications developing in patients after allogeneic BMT. CT is useful in guiding procedures for tissue diagnosis. 
Resting energy expenditure in patients with newly detected gastric and colorectal cancers. Resting energy expenditure (REE) was measured in 104 patients with newly detected gastric or colorectal (GCR) cancer and was compared with two groups of control subjects without cancer: healthy subjects (H control subjects) and patients with nonmalignant diseases of the gastrointestinal tract (GI patients). REE in GCR-cancer patients was not significantly different from REE in GI patients or H control subjects. Comparison of measured REE with predicted REE obtained from prediction equations may erroneously suggest that increased REE is a contributing factor in the development of cancer cachexia. No significant differences in REE were found when patients with liver metastases were compared with patients without metastases. There were no differences in REE between gastric and colorectal cancer patients. The decrease in energy expenditure, which normally occurs during starvation and weight loss in healthy men and women, could not be demonstrated in weight-losing, GCR-cancer patients. In conclusion, elevation of REE contributes little to the pathogenesis of cancer cachexia in GCR-cancer patients. 
Caesarean section in undiagnosed Eisenmenger's syndrome. Report of a patient with a fatal outcome. An obstetric patient is described in whom the first sign of cardiac disease was unexplained hypoxaemia during emergency anaesthesia for antepartum haemorrhage, with an eventual fatal outcome. The case highlights the importance of patient information at the booking clinic, and the implications of a raised haemaglobin in early pregnancy. 
Acute airway obstruction, hypertension and kyphoscoliosis. An elderly woman developed acute respiratory obstruction after choking on a bolus of food. On rigid bronchoscopy no foreign body, or anatomical obstruction was seen, but airway obstruction recurred during emergence from general anaesthesia, and was thought to be functional in nature. A recurring airway obstruction followed, relieved by induction of anaesthesia and by sedation. This was subsequently demonstrated to be caused by a tortuous aorta which impinged intermittently on the anterior tracheal wall, as a result of kyphoscoliosis of the thoracic spine. We attribute the relief of airway obstruction by general anaesthesia to a reduction in arterial blood pressure. 
Serum immune response to Helicobacter pylori in children: epidemiologic and clinical applications. Antibody responses to Helicobacter pylori were measured by a solid-phase whole-cell enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 150 children and adolescents; in 47 consecutive children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, including 17 with H. pylori infection before and after antimicrobial treatment; and in 46 family members of the infected children. Abnormal levels of either IgG or IgA were found in 6% of the 150 children. In the latter group the prevalence of H. pylori seropositivity increased with age. Parents and siblings of the infected children had 94% and 71% seropositivity, respectively, suggesting intrafamilial spread. Abnormal levels of IgG or IgA against H. pylori identified infected children with 95% sensitivity and 84% specificity. Eradication of the infection was accompanied by a significant decrease in IgG and IgA titers, with normalization in 10 cured patients in 12 months or less. We conclude that the method described for evaluation of H. pylori-specific IgG and IgA antibodies gives helpful information on the epidemiology of the infection and represents a useful adjunct to diagnosis and management of chronic gastritis in children. 
Endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral blood vessels during chronic hypertension. Acetylcholine produces less dilatation of pial arterioles in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) than in normotensive (WKY) rats. Responses of cerebral vessels to acetylcholine and bradykinin appear to involve different mechanisms. Our first goal was to determine whether responses of pial arterioles to bradykinin are impaired in SHRSP. Diameter of pial arterioles (20-60 microns) was measured using intravital microscopy in WKY rats and SHRSP (9-12 months old). Superfusion of bradykinin (3 x 10(-7) M) dilated pial arterioles by 35 +/- 6% (mean +/- SEM) in WKY rats, but only 21 +/- 3% in SHRSP (p less than 0.05 versus WKY rats). Both nitric oxide (5 x 10(-7) M) and nitroglycerin (10(-5) M) produced similar vasodilatation in WKY rats and SHRSP. Our second goal was to determine whether alteration of postreceptor mechanisms contributes to impairment of endothelium-dependent cerebral vasodilatation in SHRSP. Calcium ionophore A23187 (10(-5) M) produced more vasodilatation in WKY rats than in SHRSP (32 +/- 8% versus 9 +/- 4%, p less than 0.05). Responses to A23187 (10(-5) M) were inhibited by indomethacin (46 +/- 13% versus 15 +/- 5%, p less than 0.05) in WKY rats, whereas responses to A23187 (10(-6) M) were potentiated modestly by indomethacin (-3 +/- 2% versus 4 +/- 2%, p less than 0.05) in SHRSP. 
Molecular epidemiology and the genetics of environmental cancer. Environmental, occupational, and recreational exposures to carcinogens contribute to cancer risk in humans. Cancer formation is a multistage process involving tumor initiation, promotion, conversion, and progression. Carcinogens can affect any of these stages through genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. The association of a suspected carcinogenic exposure and cancer risk can be studied in populations with classic epidemiologic techniques. However, these techniques are not applicable to the assessment of risk in individuals. Molecular epidemiology, in contrast, is a field that integrates molecular biology, in vitro and in vivo laboratory models, biochemistry, and epidemiology to infer individual cancer risk. Carcinogen-macromolecular adduct levels, and somatic cell mutations can be measured to determine the biologically effective dose of a carcinogen. Molecular epidemiology also explores host cancer susceptibilities, such as carcinogen metabolic activation, DNA repair, endogenous mutation rates, and inheritance of mutated tumor suppressor genes. Substantial interindividual variation for each of these biologic end points has been shown and, therefore, highlights the need for assessing cancer risk on an individual basis. Given the pace of the last decade, it is feasible that the next 10 years will allow molecular epidemiologists to develop a cancer-risk profile for an individual that includes assessment of a number of factors. This will help focus preventive strategies and strengthen quantitative risk assessments. 
Abnormal small bowel permeability and duodenitis in recurrent abdominal pain. Thirty nine children with recurrent abdominal pain aged between 5.5 and 12 years, underwent endoscopic duodenal biopsy to find out if there were any duodenal inflammatory changes, and if there was a relationship between duodenal inflammation and intestinal permeability to 51Cr-EDTA. Duodenal inflammation was graded by the duodenitis scale of Whitehead et al (grade 0, 1, 2, and 3). In 13 out of 39 patients (33%) definite signs of inflammation were found (grade 2 and 3). Intestinal permeability to 51Cr-EDTA in patients with duodenitis (grade 1, 2, and 3) was significantly higher (4.42 (1.73)%) than in patients with normal (grade 0) duodenal biopsy appearances (3.3 (0.9)%). A significant association was found between duodenal inflammation and abnormal intestinal permeability. Our results give further evidence that there is an intestinal origin of these patients' complaints. 
Clinical evaluation of closed-loop control of blood pressure in seriously ill patients. OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of a new method of closed-loop (automatic) control of BP with usual manual control. DESIGN: Within-subject crossover trial. SETTING: General and open heart ICUs in a university teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Convenience sample of 74 seriously ill patients aged 17 to 88 yr. Twenty had hypertension: postoperative (n = 7), neurologic damage (n = 6), miscellaneous (n = 7), and were prescribed nitroprusside (n = 11) or nitroglycerin (n = 9). Fifty-four had hypotension: septic (n = 33), other (n = 21), and were prescribed norepinephrine (n = 30), dopamine (n = 11), epinephrine (n = 8), or dobutamine (n = 5). An additional 21 trials were omitted from analysis because of technical (n = 7), clinical (n = 1), or drug-related problems (n = 13). INTERVENTION: Closed-loop and manual drug administrations 1-hr were studied during periods in each patient. The target and observed mean arterial pressure (MAP) and drug infusion rate were recorded electronically every 30 sec. MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Time taken to achieve initial control (min); fidelity of control (the integral of size and duration of error from target MAP +/- 10% in mm Hg.hr/hr); and average drug dose administered (microgram/min as % maximum possible per drug). RESULTS: Compared with manual control, closed-loop achieved faster initial control (log-rank chi 1 = 5.04, p less than .05) and greater fidelity (mean 1.37 vs. 2.36; F = 7.15, p less than .01). There was no difference in average drug dose administered. There was uniformity in the efficacy advantage of closed-loop drug administration across drugs and patient classifications. CONCLUSION: The new closed-loop system is more effective than the usual manual control in managing acute BP disturbances in the seriously ill patient. 
Hemodynamic and oxygen transport changes following endotracheal suctioning in trauma patients. Hemodynamic and oxygen transport responses to four preoxygenation techniques prior to endotracheal suctioning (ETS) were evaluated in 24 critically ill trauma patients with no preexisting lung disease. A within-subjects, repeated measures design was used. All patients had functional arterial and pulmonary artery catheters and were ventilated with a Puritan-Bennett 7200 which could immediately deliver a fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO2) of 1.0. Six breaths of maintenance FIO2 and hyperinflation without hyperoxygenation caused a fall in tissue oxygen delivery as measured by continuous transcutaneous oximetry (PtcO2). The largest increases in PtcO2 and arterial oxygen tension were seen with hyperoxygenation alone and a combination of hyperoxygenation and hyperinflation. No significant changes were found in hemodynamic (cardiac index, mean arterial pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, systemic vascular resistance, pulmonary vascular resistance) or oxygen transport variables (oxygen delivery, oxygen extraction, oxygen consumption) 5 minutes postsuctioning. During both hyperinflation protocols, patients experienced dyspnea. It was concluded that three hyperoxygenation breaths before ETS, using a clinically feasible protocol, are adequate in preventing postsuction hypoxemia in young, hemodynamically stable trauma patients. Large volumes of hyperinflation, although found to increase PtcO2, are not advocated because of demonstrated patient discomfort and the possibility of barotrauma. 
1990 ARRS Executive Council Award. Intravascular sonography in the detection of arteriosclerosis and evaluation of vascular interventional procedures. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of intravascular sonography for the detection of arteriosclerosis and to determine the effects of vascular interventional procedures on the arterial wall. A catheter-based 20-MHz transducer was used. Forty patients were studied. Twelve had clinical evidence of peripheral vascular disease, 13 were healthy renal donors, and 15 underwent vascular interventional procedures. The aorta and the ipsilateral iliac artery were examined in real time under fluoroscopic guidance and the results were compared with angiography. Sonography in eight of the 13 renal donors showed arterial wall abnormalities in the absence of angiographic evidence of disease. Sonography of the 15 patients after angioplasty or atherectomy demonstrated plaque fractures, intramural dissections, or atherectomy grooves. Our experience suggests that intravascular sonography is of value in reducing the use of angiography to monitor progress or complications of vascular interventional procedures. 
Bilateral episodic mydriasis as a migraine equivalent in childhood: a case report. We report a 14-year-old girl who presented with yearly attacks of bilateral internal ophthalmoplegia, nausea and headache, since the age of nine. The episodic isolated bilateral mydriasis in this child is believed to be a migraine equivalent. 
Altered swallowing function in elderly patients without dysphagia: radiologic findings in 56 cases. Swallowing disorder is an increasing problem in our aging population. A majority of these patients have a functional abnormality of the oral, pharyngeal, and/or esophageal stage of swallowing. However, what constitutes normalcy is not well understood, and baseline swallowing in elderly persons without dysphagia has not been adequately described. We therefore evaluated 56 persons with a mean age of 83 years who had no symptoms of dysphagia or eating difficulty. Videofluoroscopy and radiographs with the subject erect and recumbent were obtained. Normal deglutition, as defined in young persons, was present in only 16%. Oral abnormalities (difficulty ingesting, controlling, and delivering bolus relative to swallowing initiation) were seen in 63%. Pharyngeal dysfunction (bolus retention and lingual propulsion or pharyngeal constrictor paresis) was seen in 25%. Pharyngoesophageal segment abnormalities were observed in 39% (mostly cricopharyngeal muscle dysfunction). Esophageal abnormalities (mostly motor in nature) were observed in 36%. What has been described as swallowing dysfunction in young persons may not be abnormal in very elderly persons. It is difficult to distinguish the effect of normal aging from the effects of specific diseases or gradual degenerative changes. 
Double intensive consolidation chemotherapy in adult acute myeloid leukemia. Of 115 adult patients with de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML), 87 (75.5%) achieved complete remission (CR) after induction treatment with zorubicin and conventional doses of cytarabine (Ara-C). Patients under age 45 years with histocompatibility locus antigen-identical sibling underwent bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The others were treated with two courses of intensive consolidation chemotherapy (ICC): course 1 with 4 days of high-dose Ara-C and 3 days of amsacrine (m-AMSA); course 2 with carmustine (BCNU), Ara-C, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide. Forty-two patients received both planned courses, 15 received only the first, and 13 patients could only support conventional maintenance therapy. Four patients died during consolidation. With a median follow-up of 60 months, the disease-free survival (DFS) after ICC at 5 years is 40.3% (+/- 6.5%), with no statistically significant difference between patients receiving one or two courses. The DFS for the 17 transplanted patients is comparable (P = .72) and is lower for the 13 excluded patients (23% +/- 11.5%, P = .046). Age did not influence the probability of remaining in CR. In univariate analysis, three parameters had a negative impact on the 5-year DFS: a high initial WBC count (52% for patients with less than 30 x 10(9) WBC/L v 12% for patients with greater than 30 x 10(9) WBC/L, P = .01), a long delay between induction treatment and course 1 (+/- 60 days; 63% v 29%, P = .01), and a long delay between course 1 and course 2 (+/- 60 days, 61.5% v 28.5%, P = .05). In multivariate analysis (Cox model), only the WBC count remained significant. This study confirms the value of intensive postremission chemotherapy, which can be compared in AML with allogeneic or autologous BMT. It also demonstrates the prognostic value of the initial WBC count. The optimal modalities of ICC remain to be defined by further studies. 
Intravascular IL-8. Inhibitor of polymorphonuclear leukocyte accumulation at sites of acute inflammation. IL-8 has been characterized primarily as a polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) chemoattractant and proinflammatory mediator. Recently, we have reported that [Ala-IL-8]77 is secreted by activated cultured human endothelial cells and can function as a potent inhibitor of PMN adhesion to these monolayers. The pathophysiologic relevance of this in vitro observation was examined by determining the effects of intravascular or extravascular administration of IL-8 on PMN emigration at sites of acute inflammation in the skin of NZW rabbits. An i.v. bolus of [Ala-IL-8]77 (12 micrograms/kg) produced a marked and selective reduction of circulating PMN within 3 min, which returned toward preinjection levels within 30 min, and subsequently exceeded this level. A similar response was observed for circulating radiolabeled PMN, and gamma-scintigraphy determined that the lungs were the primary site of leukosequestration. During the 30- to 150-min interval after i.v. infusion of [Ala-IL-8]77, PMN emigration into acute inflammatory sites, elicited by various chemoattractants or cytokines, was significantly reduced, as judged histologically and quantitated with 51Cr-labeled PMN and myeloperoxidase measurements. Intravenous administration of [Ser-IL-8]72 yielded similar results. This inhibitory effect of i.v. IL-8 was transient and reinducible and did not reflect a suppression of the responsiveness of circulating PMN to chemoattractants. Intradermal injections of [Ala-IL-8]77 or [Ser-IL-8]72 induced dose-dependent PMN accumulation, which also was significantly reduced by i.v. administration of either form of IL-8. These results indicate that i.v. IL-8 can function as a PMN-directed leukocyte adhesion inhibitor and suggest that local secretion of IL-8 by activated endothelium may differentially modulate leukocyte-endothelial interactions at sites of acute inflammation. 
Acute and chronic urticaria and angioedema. Urticaria and angioedema are clinical manifestations of various immunologic and inflammatory mechanisms, or they may be idiopathic. The respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts as well as the cardiovascular system may be involved in any combination. Patients with urticaria and/or angioedema can be classified based on pathophysiologic mechanisms into those with IgE-dependent or complement-mediated immunologic disorders, those with nonimmunologic disorders in which there is a direct effect on the mast cell or on arachidonic acid metabolism, and those whose condition is idiopathic. Evaluation of patients should focus on a thorough history. Laboratory tests provide minimal additional information. About one half of patients with urticaria alone and 25% with urticaria and angioedema or angioedema alone are free of lesions within 1 year. With urticaria, angioedema, or both, 20% of patients experience episodes for more than 20 years. 
Breathing during sleep in patients treated for obstructive sleep apnea. Nasal CPAP for only part of the night. To determine whether long-term NCPAP therapy influences severity of sleep disordered breathing during the second part of a night when NCPAP is applied for only the first four hours of sleep, we studied 21 patients with OSA receiving NCPAP therapy for 253 +/- 41.6 days. Results from polysomnography for the period after withdrawal from NCPAP (night B) were compared to the corresponding period of sleep prior to initiation of NCPAP therapy (night A). There was no significant change in RDI from night A (53.9 +/- 8.6) to night B (28.7 +/- 3.3), but maximal apnea length diminished from 55 +/- 2.9 s to 40 +/- 2.9 s (p less than 0.05). Whereas daytime Po2 and the amplitude of desaturations during sleep remained equal, overall oxygenation during sleep improved slightly (mean SaO2 night A = 90.6 +/- 0.9 percent; night B = 92.8 +/- 0.5 percent; p less than 0.05). Differences between nights A and B were more prominent the more severe sleep apnea had been prior to treatment and could not be explained by weight loss. There was strong correlation between improvements in oxygenation measurements and the daily time of NCPAP use. In conclusion, we found a subgroup of OSA patients receiving long-term NCPAP therapy with less disturbed ventilation during sleep following use of NCPAP for only the first part of the night, but in the majority of patients, sleep disordered breathing off NCPAP remained unchanged. 
Synchronous lung cancers defined by deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry. When two pulmonary tumors are seen simultaneously in patients with lung cancer, it always raises a question as to whether the lesions are synchronous lung cancers or lung cancer with intrapulmonary metastasis. To settle this issue, we used deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry. Deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy patterns of tumors were able to be analyzed in 14 patients with two simultaneous pulmonary tumors resected by operation. These two tumors, with completely different patterns of deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy, were defined as synchronous lung cancers. Tumors were defined as lung cancer with intrapulmonary metastasis when both tumors showed diploidy or when at least one deoxyribonucleic acid index of abnormal clones between two aneuploid tumors was the same or almost identical. Tumors of the five patients with stage I disease were classified as synchronous lung cancers according to the criteria involving deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry. Both tumors were adenocarcinomas in four patients and large-cell and squamous cell carcinomas in one. Both tumors in four patients were located in the same lobe but different segments. All but one patient with different histologic types are alive without recurrence from 24 to 100 months after operation. Tumors of the nine patients with stage III disease in whom intrapulmonary metastasis was clinically suspected were classified as lung cancer with intrapulmonary metastasis according to the criteria. These data suggest that deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry of tumors may have diagnostic value in determining synchronous lung cancers. 
Inferior vena caval involvement by renal cell carcinoma. Use of venovenous bypass as adjunct during resection. Venovenous bypass allows the safe conduct of operation during resection of renal cell carcinoma with inferior vena caval involvement by allowing venous return when the inferior vena cava is clamped, thus preventing hypotension. It obviates the heparin required for full cardiopulmonary bypass and therefore decreases postoperative bleeding. A blood retrieval system decreases the volume of banked blood required. A Moretz clip placed early on the intrapericardial inferior vena cava allows adequate venous return and prevents a massive pulmonary tumor embolism. 
Aortoesophageal fistula: a comprehensive review of the literature. Aortoesophageal fistula (AEF) is a relatively rare but life-threatening cause of upper gastro-intestinal bleeding. The clinical characteristics of AEF are so unique that a presumptive bedside diagnosis can be made at the time of presentation. In the past decade, surgical management has improved to the point that cure is now possible. For these reasons, we have reviewed the literature. We summarize our findings with respect to the etiology and clinical characteristics of AEF. Further, we discuss the diagnostic modalities that may be used to confirm the diagnosis, and the therapeutic modalities available to slow the hemorrhage, so as to allow time to correct the anatomic defect. 
Metastases of a gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as colonic polyposis. Report of a case. The authors report a case of multiple colonic metastases of a gastric signet ring cell adenocarcinoma, presenting as colonic polyposis revealed by diarrhea, iron deficiency anemia, and left supraclavicular lymph node. 
Placenta previa percreta involving the urinary bladder: a report of two cases and review of the literature. The incidences of both placenta previa and placenta accreta are increased in patients with scarred uteri, and patients with uterine scars and placenta previa are at increased risk for also having placenta accreta. Two cases are presented of placenta previa percreta with involvement of the urinary bladder necessitating cesarean hysterectomy, partial cystectomy, and, in one case, bilateral ureteral reimplantation. Both patients had two previous cesarean deliveries. Serious hemorrhage is common in patients with placenta percreta. The primary goal of surgical management must be to control bleeding, which usually requires resection of all tissue involved by the infiltrating placenta. After hemorrhage is controlled, the surgeon must reestablish the integrity of the urinary system and reconstruct the pelvis as necessary. 
Porencephalic cyst: a complication of fetal intravascular transfusion. A case of unilateral porencephalic cyst as a result of intravascular intrauterine transfusion is reported. Although other factors may have contributed, fetal bradycardia and relative hyperviscosity as a result of increased fetal hematocrit value were considered to be related to this event. Because some authors recommend direct intravascular transfusion to supraphysiologic hematocrits to prolong the interval between procedures, we would caution the use of this approach on the basis of theoretic considerations and the occurrence of this complication. 
Suppressive effect of sulfate on the development of hypertension in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of the sulfate ion on blood pressure in DOCA-salt hypertension, which involves increased sympathetic nervous activity. Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups, and received one of the following drinking solutions: distilled water [control], 171 mmol/L sodium chloride [NaCl group], 171 mmol/L sodium chloride plus 12 mmol/L magnesium sulfate [S(+) group], or 171 mmol/L sodium chloride plus 12 mmol/L magnesium chloride [S(-) group]. In the S(+) group, the elevation of systolic blood pressure (SBP; mm Hg) was significantly attenuated (168 +/- 17 v 213 +/- 26, P less than .005) and intraerythrocyte calcium concentration (R-Ca; mumol/L cells) was significantly lower (11.5 +/- 3.0 v 17.4 +/- 6.5, P less than .05) than in the S(-) group. The cardiac norepinephrine content (H-NE; ng/100 g tissue) of the S(+) group was significantly lower than that of the S(-) group. SBP was correlated negatively with H-NE (r = -0.70, P less than .001) and positively with R-Ca (r = 0.45, P less than .005). R-Ca was negatively correlated with H-NE (r = -0.36, P less than .05). These results suggest that the replacement of chloride with sulfate ion suppresses the development of hypertension in DOCA-salt rats at least in part by its inhibitory effect on sympathetic nervous activity through the decreased intracellular calcium concentration. 
Physiologic stress and cellular ischemia: relationship to immunosuppression and susceptibility to sepsis. Multiple organ system failure secondary to infection is the most frequent cause of late mortality after hemorrhage, burns, and trauma. Although multiple immunologic abnormalities have been identified following injury, blood loss, and tissue ischemia, the mechanisms that produce these alterations in T- and B-cell function have not been completely defined. Physiologic stress and ischemia result in increased release of neuroendocrine peptides and hormones, capable of affecting normal neuroendocrine-immunologic balance and producing immunosuppression. Tissue ischemia leads to increased expression of heat shock proteins by hypoperfused cells, which can alter T-cell function. Injury also is followed by the appearance of serum immunosuppressive factors, which have been shown to inhibit T- and B-cell function. Future therapies directed at these and other cellular and molecular abnormalities initiated by tissue hypoperfusion may reverse the immunosuppressed state in critically ill patients and lead to improved outcome in this setting. 
Metachronous occurrence of collagenous colitis and ulcerative colitis. Collagenous colitis and ulcerative colitis are distinct disorders. A 67 year old woman with clinical and histological evidence of collagenous colitis had an abrupt symptomatic exacerbation while taking anti-inflammatory treatment with sulphasalazine and prednisone. Repeat colorectal endoscopy showed active mucosal inflammation and colonic biopsy specimens were consistent with active ulcerative colitis. After bowel rest, total parenteral nutrition, intensification of the anti-inflammatory regimen, and withdrawal of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (which she had taken continuously for osteoarthritis) diarrhoea abated. Colorectal biopsy specimens obtained when the patient's symptoms had improved showed inactive ulcerative colitis with no evidence of collagenous colitis. This may be the first case to be reported of the metachronous association of collagenous and ulcerative colitis. 
The use of aspirin to prevent heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. A preliminary report. The reported incidence of heterotopic ossification (HO) after total hip arthroplasty (THA) ranges up to 50%. HO causes pain and restricted range of motion (ROM) in a significant number of these THA patients. From 1983 to 1988, 177 primary cemented THAs were performed in 131 consecutive patients. Six hundred fifty milligrams of buffered aspirin administered twice daily for two weeks was used as a prophylaxis for thromboembolic disease. There was an unusually low incidence of HO in this group of patients. Aspirin treatment was instituted the night before surgery and continued for two weeks, except in 13 patients (7%) who had to stop treatment because of gastrointestinal symptoms. All patients had at least one year of roentgenographic study postoperatively. According to the Brooker Classification of HO, there were 169 (96%) Grade I and Grade 0 hips, six (3%) Grade II, two (1%) Grade III, and no Grade IV. None of the patients had symptomatic restriction of ROM attributable to heterotopic bone. Aspirin is a safe and inexpensive agent for prevention of HO after THA. 
Salvage of thrombosed forearm polytetrafluoroethylene vascular access grafts by reversal of flow direction and venous bypass grafting. A technique is described for salvage of looped forearm polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) vascular access grafts that fail because of thrombosis due to cephalic vein outflow obstruction. It entails reversal of blood flow direction through the graft and construction of a new venous outflow in the medial upper arm. This procedure was performed in nine patients and, at the present time, has increased the graft life by an average of 6.2 months (range: 2 to 14 months) in eight. We conclude that this is a useful alternative to abandoning failed looped forearm PTFE grafts that have cephalic vein outflow obstruction. 
High rate of portal thrombosis after splenectomy in patients with esophageal varices and idiopathic portal hypertension. Data on 126 consecutive patients who were admitted to our clinics from January 1979 to May 1989 were scrutinized to assess changes in portal hemodynamics following splenectomy. Two groups were classified: (1) a group of 106 patients with cirrhosis of the liver and (2) a group of 20 patients with idiopathic portal hypertension (IPH). Portal thrombosis was present in five (25.0%) of the 20 patients with IPH and in two (1.8%) of the 106 patients with cirrhosis of the liver. As seen on celiac arteriography, the mean (+/- SD) diameter of the trunk of the splenic artery and vein was 8.99 +/- 1.55 and 16.2 +/- 3.6 mm, respectively, in patients with IPH, while it was 7.94 +/- 1.28 and 14.2 +/- 3.1 mm, respectively, in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. Changes in portal venous pressure were 78.4 +/- 59.4 mm H2O in patients with IPH and 43.5 +/- 38.7 mm H2O in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. There were no significant differences in the maximum level of thrombocytes in patients with IPH or in those patients with cirrhosis of the liver. These events suggest that portal thrombosis can occur with a significantly higher incidence in patients with IPH than in those patients with cirrhosis of the liver after splenectomy, and a decrease in blood flow in the portal vein may be closely linked to the formation of portal thrombosis after splenectomy in patients with IPH. Preoperative examination of portal hemodynamics must be thorough. 
The value of Doppler echocardiography in the management of patients with valvular heart disease: analysis of one year of clinical practice. Management recommendations based on Doppler echocardiographic examination and cardiac catheterization were compared in a prospective study in 100 consecutive patients who were admitted for evaluation and treatment of suspected valvular heart disease during 1988. Management recommendations were provided independently after both Doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization by different and blinded investigators. Criteria for severe (clinically significant) and moderate to mild (insignificant) valvular lesions and management recommendations were agreed on in advance. There was disagreement on the severity of aortic stenosis based on the aortic valve area and maximum instantaneous pressure gradient in 1 of 54 patients, which resulted in differing management recommendations. Mitral stenosis was severe (valve area less than or equal to 1 cm2) at Doppler echocardiography but not at cardiac catheterization in 5 of 14 patients. Because pulmonary artery pressure increase during exercise at cardiac catheterization also suggested severe obstruction, management recommendations were similar. There was a potentially significant disagreement on the severity of aortic regurgitation in 9 of 76 patients and of mitral regurgitation in 14 of 90 patients; however, this did not produce differing management recommendations because with most patients coexistent valvular lesions or an impaired ventricular function mainly determined the ultimate management decision. Although of good quality, Doppler echocardiographic examination was nonconclusive for clinical decision-making in 15% of the study population because of uncertainty about the severity of mitral regurgitation or aortic regurgitation or because of problems in assessing the degree of left ventricular dysfunction in patients with severe regurgitation. 
Sexual asphyxia in siblings. We present an accidental autoerotic asphyxiation of a 24-year-old man. Further investigation revealed that 18 years earlier, his brother, then 13, had been found dead, hanging in the family bathroom. Although that death had been ruled a suicide, reevaluation of the death scene indicates that this was also an autoerotic asphyxiation. This is the first reported case of sexual asphyxia involving siblings. 
Larynx preservation with combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy in advanced but resectable head and neck cancer. Forty patients with advanced, resectable squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx, oropharynx, or hypopharynx whose surgery would have required total laryngectomy (TL), were treated with one to three cycles of cisplatin-based chemotherapy before local therapy with the goal of larynx preservation. Clinical complete responses (CRs) or partial responses (PRs) to chemotherapy were seen in 26 of 40 patients (65%). Three patients with primary-site disease unresponsive to chemotherapy underwent resection of the primary lesion and neck dissection followed by radiation therapy (RT). Thirty-seven patients were referred after chemotherapy for RT +/- neck dissection. Thirty-one of 40 patient (78%) were rendered disease-free (no evidence of disease [NED]). With a median follow-up of 49 months (range, 31 to 76), the overall actuarial survival rate for the group was 58% at 2 years and 33% at 5 years. The failure-free survival rate was 42% and 33% at 2 and 5 years, respectively. Seven patients refused recommended TL throughout their course. This may have adversely affected survival results. A greater proportion of patients who achieved a CR or PR to chemotherapy remained disease-free compared with those who achieved less than a PR (P less than .001). Sixteen patients relapsed, 10 with locoregional disease. Six patients underwent TL, either for initial induction failure or at relapse, for an actual larynx-preservation rate of 34 of 40 patients (85%). If the seven patients who refused TL are included, the anticipated preservation rate is 27 of 40 patients (68%). Larynx preservation with combined chemotherapy and radiation is feasible and effective in patients with advanced, resectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCHN). This treatment approach requires a motivated patient, careful patient monitoring, and close interdisciplinary cooperation among oncologists. 
Development of a novel 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 analog with potent ability to induce HL-60 cell differentiation without modulating calcium metabolism. We describe several novel analogs of the seco-steroid 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3[1,25(OH)2D3] and their effects on differentiation and proliferation of HL-60 human myeloid leukemic cells in vitro as well as their effects on calcium metabolism in vivo. The 1 alpha-25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-26,27F6-vitamin D3 is the most potent analog reported to date, having about 80-fold more activity than the reference 1,25(OH)2D3 for inhibition of proliferation and induction of differentiation of HL-60 cells. Also, this analog decreased RNA expression of MYC oncogene in HL-60 by 90% at 5 x 10(-10) mol/L. Intriguingly, intestinal calcium absorption and bone calcium mobilization mediated in vivo by 1 alpha-25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-26,27F6-D3 was found to be markedly (15-fold) less than that of 1,25(OH)2D3. In addition, 1 alpha-25(OH)2D3 bound to 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors of both HL-60 and intestine more avidly than did 1 alpha-25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-26,27F6-D3. This novel analog may open up new therapeutic strategies for several hematopoietic, skin, and bone abnormalities and may provide a new tool to understand how vitamin D3 seco-steroids induce cellular differentiation. 
Identification of the proximal neck of giant paraclinoidal aneurysms. Technical note. Introduction of a double-lumen Swan-Ganz balloon catheter into the parent artery facilitated precise identification of the proximal neck in two giant paraclinoidal aneurysms. Reduction of the flow rate as low as possible and positioning of the patient's head were the most important factors in this procedure. 
Glutethimide treatment of disabling action tremor in patients with multiple sclerosis and traumatic brain injury. Glutethimide has been used to control essential tremor. Its efficacy in the treatment of disabling cerebellar and rubral tremor was assessed in an open study of six patients with multiple sclerosis and two patients with traumatic brain injury. Functional and quantitative tremor severity was assessed before treatment and 7 to 14 days after a stable dose was achieved. Six of eight patients exhibited visible functional benefit from treatment with glutethimide; abstract testing results correlated well with functional status in most cases. Four patients chose to continue to receive medication. Controlled trials of glutethimide to compare its efficacy with that of other medications used in the treatment of action tremor are indicated. 
Short-course versus long-course antibiotic treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. A randomized controlled study of 100 patients. In an attempt to determine the optimal duration of therapy of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, 100 patients with neutrocytic ascites and suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were randomized to short-course vs. long-course treatment groups. Empiric therapy was initiated before the results of ascitic fluid culture were available. Of the 90 patients who met strict criteria for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis or culture-negative neutrocytic ascites, 43 were randomized to a group receiving 5 days and 47 to a group receiving 10 days of single-agent cefotaxime, 2 g IV every 8 hours. Infection-related mortality (0% vs. 4.3%), hospitalization mortality (32.6% vs. 42.5%), bacteriologic cure (93.1% vs. 91.2%), and recurrence of ascitic fluid infection (11.6% vs. 12.8%) were not significantly different between the 5- and 10-day treatment groups, respectively. Recurrence rates were comparable to the values reported in the literature. The cost of antibiotic and antibiotic administration were significantly lower in the short-course group. Short-course treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is as efficacious as long-course therapy and significantly less expensive. 
Acid secretion and suppression. Hydrochloric acid is involved in the causation of peptic ulcer, but the exact role has not been defined. Suppression of acid secretion is associated with ulcer healing. The acid secreting cell is the parietal cell, which possesses a proton pump in the secretory membrane; morphologic changes accompany and facilitate the active secretion of hydrochloric acid. Stimulation of acid secretion occurs by three major pathways, which utilize acetylcholine, histamine, and gastrin. The predominant effects of histamine are mediated by adenylate cyclase, whereas those of gastrin and acetylcholine involve cytosolic calcium. There is a complicated arrangement of receptors and pathways that culminate in the activation of the proton pump. The parietal cell is influenced by neurocrine, hormonal, and paracrine mechanisms. Peptides join the more familiar neurotransmitters in affecting the parietal cell. Somatostatin is present in the gut and acts to decrease acid secretion. The hormone gastrin is released, in a feedback fashion, when the antrum is alkalinized. Most stimuli of acid secretion are blocked by H2-antagonists. Inhibitory hormones are released when acid arrives in the intestine. Inhibition of acid secretion can be achieved by influencing the parietal cell at the level of histamine, gastrin, and muscarinic receptors. The proton pump itself can be blocked by drugs that inhibit the final phase of acid secretion. 
Platelet emboli in rat brain cross when the contralateral carotid artery is occluded. The pathogenesis of embolic events ipsilateral to an occluded carotid artery is uncertain. To examine this question we combined occlusion of the left common carotid artery with embolism from the right common carotid artery in rats. Following ligation of the left carotid artery in 20 experimental rats, we irradiated the right carotid artery with a laser (632 nm, 200 mW/cm2, 12-15 minutes) following the intravenous injection of 12.5 mg/kg of the photosensitizing agent Photofrin II. Controls had left carotid artery occlusion with (n = 13) or without (n = 6) Photofrin II. Fifteen of the 20 experimental rats survived to be perfused at 24 hours; cerebral infarcts were identified in 12 rats, with bilateral infarcts in 10. There were 112 infarcts (101 small [less than 2.5 mm] and 11 large [greater than 2.5 mm] on the right and 103 (93 small and 10 large) on the left. Emboli were seen in association with some infarcts and were evenly distributed in the two hemispheres (37 emboli on the right and 40 on the left, with the midline azygous artery occluded in four animals). Left carotid artery occlusion did not produce infarcts or emboli in the controls. We conclude that cerebral infarcts in the distribution of an occluded common carotid artery may be caused by emboli from the contralateral carotid artery in rats. 
Traditional first-line therapy. Overview of medical benefits and side effects. When diuretic-based stepped care was first advocated for the treatment of hypertension, there were fewer classes of antihypertensive medication than there are today. In 1984, the third Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC) for the first time suggested an alternative initial treatment with a beta-blocker in selected hypertensive patients, and the fourth JNC report has recommended the alternatives of calcium channel blockers or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors for step-one therapy as well. However, only the diuretic drugs and beta-blockers have been shown to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in prospective, long-term, controlled trials. Moreover, 30 years' experience with diuretic agents and 20 years' experience with beta-blockers have defined the advantages, disadvantages, and potential side effects of these drugs more precisely than is possible for newer agents. The diuretic drugs and beta-blockers remain excellent choices in the management of hypertension. 
Timing of invasive procedures in therapy for primary and secondary spontaneous pneumothorax. Timing of invasive procedures during chest tube therapy in spontaneous pneumothorax is undefined. Evaluation of 115 patients with primary and secondary spontaneous pneumothorax treated with tube thoracostomy revealed nearly maximal healing rates after 48 hours without a relevant increase if drainage was maintained for up to 10 days. In secondary spontaneous pneumothorax, a significantly lower healing rate was observed after 48 hours compared with primary spontaneous pneumothorax (60% vs 82%). Therapeutic success was not predictable by single clinical variables available at admission (eg, age, gender, and smoking habits) nor by their combinations. Recurrence rates were 30% in both primary and secondary spontaneous pneumothorax. Hospital stay averaged 6 days in primary and 15 days in secondary spontaneous pneumothorax. Considering their efficacy and the low incidence of complications, the early use of invasive procedures such as surgical pleurectomy, after 48 hours of persistent gas leaking, seems justified. Shorter in-patient care and lower recurrence rates may result. 
Focal high signal on MR scans of the midbrain caused by enlarged perivascular spaces: MR-pathologic correlation. Punctate and linear foci of abnormal signal were observed near the substantia nigra in the midbrains of 32 (20%) of 157 patients undergoing high-resolution MR imaging of the brainstem. The lesions were most easily seen on long TR/long TE images, where they were of high signal intensity. Their location was consistently in the lower mesencephalon near the junction of the substantia nigra and cerebral peduncle. Unilateral lesions were observed in 18 cases, while bilateral lesions were noted in 14. A review of anatomic specimens revealed the constant presence of penetrating branches of the collicular or accessory collicular arteries in this location. Enlarged perivascular spaces around these vessels were frequently seen in the specimens and probably account for punctate and linear foci observed on high-resolution MR images of the midbrain. 
Dietary calcium supplementation as a treatment for mild hypertension. The blood pressure responses of 19 mildly hypertensive (diastolic blood pressure 90-104 mmHg) individuals to treatment with either 1200 mg of elemental calcium supplementation or placebo were assessed weekly in a 6-month randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. Both groups showed a decrease in blood pressure (calcium treated: 6 +/- 12 mmHg systolic, 7 +/- 7 mmHg diastolic; and placebo controlled: 9 +/- 14 mmHg systolic, 9 +/- 8 mmHg diastolic). Differences between the two groups were not significant (P greater than 0.1). There were no adverse effects to either treatment. This study does not support the hypothesis that dietary calcium supplementation is more effective than placebo in reducing blood pressure in mildly hypertensive individuals. 
The contributions of interpersonal conflict to chronic pain in the presence or absence of organic pathology. This study investigated the influences of social support and interpersonal conflict on chronic pain in patients with arthritis or with myofascial disorders. Measures of social support, conflict, and pain were drawn from subscales of the McGill Pain Questionnaire, the Multidimensional Pain Inventory, the Family Environment Scale, and the Interpersonal Relationship Inventory. Patients with myofascial disorders reported significantly worse pain (sensory and affective), higher depression scores, more interpersonal conflict, and less support from others than patients with arthritis, but did not differ from them on personality traits. Also, the contributions of conflict to pain were found to depend on the nature of the chronic disorder and on the source of the conflict, i.e., significant other, family, or social network members. For patients with arthritis, less intense pain (sensory and affective) was associated with higher family conflict. Less intense sensory pain in arthritis was also associated with more punishing responses from the significant other to pain. For patients with myofascial disorders, more intense affective pain was associated with higher social network conflict. Social support did not significantly contribute to pain for either group. Thus, chronic painful disorders may differ on the influences that social relationships have on pain. The implications of these differences for treatment are discussed. 
cis-platinum ototoxicity in children. Cis-platinum is an ototoxic antineoplastic drug. Evaluation of auditory thresholds in 33 children receiving cis-platinum shows that a threshold shift at 6 and 8 kHz is first measurable after a cumulative dose of 201 to 300 mg/m2. A 35- to 40-dB high-frequency threshold shift is evident after a cumulative cis-platinum dose of 301 to 400 mg/m2. Increasing cumulative doses of cis-platinum are associated with a greater degree of hearing loss. Receiver-operator characteristic curves were used to find a criterion value that effectively identified threshold shifts that were due to cis-platinum ototoxicity. A 15-dB or greater shift in the 6- and 8-kHz threshold average identifies a high true-positive (50%) and low false-positive (0%) rate of cis-platinum-induced hearing loss. Using this criterion, cis-platinum ototoxicity affected 77% of children who received cis-platinum (median cumulative dose 360 mg/m2). 
Ultrastructural localization of interferon-producing cells in the livers of patients with chronic hepatitis B. Cells expressing alpha- and gamma-interferon were localized in the liver tissue of patients with chronic hepatitis B by means of light and electron microscopy using monoclonal antibodies. Interferon-positive cells were regularly seen in the infiltrating mononuclear cells, and the number showed a good correlation with the degree of the necroinflammatory activity of the disease. In chronic persistent hepatitis and in normal livers, they were infrequent or virtually absent. alpha-Interferon was shown to be positive in lymphocytes, polymorphonuclear leukocytes and fibroblasts, Kupffer cells and, weakly, in the cytoplasm of a few hepatocytes in cases of active hepatitis, whereas gamma-interferon was demonstrated only in lymphocytes. The expression of human leukocyte class I antigens on hepatocytes showed a close association with the number of interferon-producing cells, but not with the presence of virus particles and HBcAg in liver cells, when studied using electron microscopy and double-labeling. Interferon seems to be an important regulator of the local immune response in the liver in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Its functions may play a role in inducing the human leukocyte class I antigen expression on hepatocytes, thus enhancing the elimination of virus-containing hepatocytes by major histocompatibility complex-restricted cytotoxic lymphocytes. 
Factors affecting perioperative pulmonary function in acute respiratory failure. To determine the magnitude, duration, and associated factors of perioperative changes in pulmonary function, we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 145 patients who required preoperative mechanical ventilation for acute respiratory failure before undergoing 200 surgical procedures. Patients were grouped into five pulmonary diagnostic categories: (1) adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (n = 49); (2) pneumonia (n = 20); (3) atelectasis (n = 65); (4) congestive heart failure (n = 11); and (5) acute ventilatory failure (n = 55). Sixty patients underwent intra-abdominal surgery, 135 patients required surgery on the periphery, and five patients had a thoracotomy. For all patients, PaO2/FIO2 declined significantly from 321 mm Hg (mean) preoperatively to 258 mm Hg intraoperatively, and shunt fraction (Qs/QT) increased from 0.16 to 0.23 without a significant change in PaCO2. The magnitude of the increase in Qs/QT did not differ among pulmonary diagnostic groups. Preoperatively, patients undergoing laparotomy had lower PaO2/FIO2 (278 vs 340) and higher Qs/QT (0.19 vs 0.14) than patients requiring surgery on the periphery. Intraoperatively, Qs/QT increased more during abdominal procedures than during peripheral procedures. Intraoperative hypoxemia (PaO2/FIO2 less than 80 mm Hg) occurred during 13 procedures. Hypoxemic patients had a mean increase in Qs/QT of 0.20 (0.25 preoperatively to 0.45 intraoperatively), and a significant increase in PaCO2 from 38 mm Hg to 45 mm Hg intraoperatively). In general, these patients had ARDS (n = 10), sepsis (n = 10), a laparotomy (n = 9), and intraoperative mechanical ventilation via the Ohio Anesthesia ventilator (n = 8), a commonly used operating room ventilator. Their preoperative peak airway pressure (54 cm H2O) and minute ventilation (20 L/min) requirements exceeded the capabilities of the Ohio Anesthesia ventilator and likely contributed to impaired gas exchange intraoperatively. Within the first several hours postoperatively, PaO2/FIO2 recovered to preoperative levels in all patients, even in those who had severe intraoperative hypoxemia develop and who underwent laparotomy. We conclude that most patients with acute respiratory failure receiving preoperative mechanical ventilation experienced mild-to-moderate deterioration in intraoperative pulmonary oxygen exchange that rapidly returned to preoperative levels after surgery. We recommend that necessary surgery not be postponed by concern that pulmonary function will be worsened by surgery and anesthesia. 
Spinal cord pial metastases: MR imaging with gadopentetate dimeglumine. The purpose of this investigation was to describe gadopentetate-dimeglumine-enhanced MR findings in metastatic disease to the pial lining of the spinal cord. Correlation was made with clinical data, other radiologic studies, and pathologic findings. Eighty-six patients with a known malignancy and unexplained neurologic signs or symptoms were studied with pre- and postcontrast T1-weighted images. In seven of these patients, abnormal enhancement of the pial lining of the cord was seen on the sagittal postcontrast T1-weighted images. This appeared as a thin rim of enhancement along the surface of the cord in six patients and as a focal, thick rim of enhancement in addition to the thin rim of enhancement in the seventh patient. Axial images confirmed the location along the pial lining in each case. Precontrast T1-weighted images in all seven cases and precontrast T2-weighted images in five cases failed to detect any focal abnormalities of the pial lining of the cord. Pathologic confirmation was available in five of the seven patients. Primary malignancies in these patients included breast carcinomas (two), lymphoma (one), leukemia (one), adenocarcinoma of the lung (one), prostate carcinoma (one), and malignant melanoma (one). Three of seven patients had metastatic disease evident only within the CNS, while four patients had widespread disease outside the CNS. We conclude that contrast-enhanced MR imaging is useful in the diagnosis of pial spread of metastatic disease in patients with a known primary malignancy and unexplained neurologic signs or symptoms. 
Cough, exertional, and other miscellaneous headaches. We have discussed several miscellaneous headache disorders not associated with structural brain disease. The first group included those headaches provoked by "exertional" triggers in various forms. These include benign cough headache, BEH, and headache associated with sexual activity. The IHS diagnostic criteria were discussed. Benign exertional headache and cough headache were discussed together because of their substantial similarities. In general, BEH is characterized by severe, short-lived pain after coughing, sneezing, lifting a burden, sexual activity, or other similar brief effort. Structural disease of the brain or skull was the most important differential diagnosis for these disorders, with posterior fossa mass lesions being identified as the most common organic etiology. Magnetic resonance imaging with special attention to the posterior fossa and foramen magnum is the preferred method for evaluating these patients. Indomethacin is the treatment of choice. The headache associated with sexual activity is dull in the early phases of sexual excitement and becomes intense at orgasm. This headache is unpredictable in occurrence. Like BEH, the headache associated with sexual activity can be a manifestation of structural disease. Subarachnoid hemorrhage must be excluded, by CT scanning and CSF examination, in patients with the sexual headache. Benign headache associated with sexual activity has been successfully treated with indomethacin and beta-blockers. The second miscellaneous group of headache disorders includes those provoked by eating something cold or food additives, and by environmental stimuli. Idiopathic stabbing headache does not have a known trigger and appears frequently in migraineurs. Its occurrence may also herald the termination of an attack of cluster headache. Indomethacin treatment provides significant relief. Three headaches triggered by substances that are eaten were reviewed: ingestion of a cold stimulus, nitrate/nitrite-induced headache, and MSG-induced headache. For the most part, avoidance of these stimuli can prevent the associated headache. Lastly, we reviewed headache provoked by high altitude and hypoxia. The headache is part of the syndrome of AMS during its early or benign stage and the later malignant stage of HACE. The pain can be exacerbated by exercise. The best treatment is prevention via slow ascent and avoidance of respiratory depressants. Acetazolamide and dexamethasone have proved useful in preventing this syndrome. 
Differentiation therapy of acute promyelocytic leukemia with tretinoin (all-trans-retinoic acid). BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia have a characteristic (15;17) translocation, with a breakpoint on chromosome 17 in the region of the retinoic acid receptor-alpha (RAR-alpha). Since this receptor has been shown to be involved with growth and differentiation of myeloid cells in vitro, and since recent clinical studies have reported that tretinoin (all-trans-retinoic acid) induces complete remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia we studied the effects of tretinoin on cellular maturation and molecular abnormalities in patients undergoing the induction of remission with this agent. RESULTS. Eleven patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with tretinoin administered orally at a dose of 45 mg per square meter of body-surface area per day. Nine of the 11 patients entered complete remission. In two patients, complete remission was preceded by striking leukocytosis that then resolved despite continued drug treatment. Serial studies of cellular morphologic features, cell-surface immunophenotypic analysis, and fluorescence in situ hybridization with a chromosome 17 probe revealed that clinical response was associated with maturation of the leukemic clone. All patients who responded to treatment who were tested by Northern blot analysis had expression of aberrant RAR-alpha. As patients entered complete remission, the expression of the abnormal RAR-alpha message decreased markedly; however, it was still detectable in several patients after complete morphologic and cytogenetic remission had been achieved. CONCLUSIONS. Tretinoin is a safe and highly effective agent for inducing complete remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Clinical response to this agent is associated with leukemic-cell differentiation and is linked to the expression of an aberrant RAR-alpha nuclear receptor. Molecular detection of the aberrant receptor may serve as a useful marker for residual leukemia in patients with this disease. 
Canine myocardial creatine kinase isoenzymes after chronic coronary artery occlusion. BACKGROUND. Creatine kinase (CK) exists as three cytosolic isoenzymes, CK-MM, CK-MB, and CK-BB, and one mitochondrial isoenzyme. Animal and human observations suggest that the CK-MB content of myocardium is dynamic and may increase in response to ischemia, but the response of the myocardial CK system to chronic coronary artery occlusion is not well-defined. METHODS AND RESULTS. We measured serial changes in myocardial total CK, percent CK-MB, and percent CK-BB before and 3 weeks after coronary artery occlusion in 17 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs. Tissue biopsies were obtained from the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery myocardium, the right coronary artery (RCA) myocardium, and the circumflex coronary artery myocardium at baseline and 3 weeks after LAD occlusion (n = 6), RCA occlusion (n = 5), and no coronary artery occlusion (n = 6). Tissue samples were assayed for total CK, percent CK-MB, and percent CK-BB. Samples were also examined by electron microscopy for evidence of ischemic myopathy. Total myocardial CK activity did not change over 3 weeks. Percent CK-MB increased significantly in the tissue supplied by the occluded artery (4.1-fold in dogs with LAD occlusion and 6.7-fold in dogs with RCA occlusion). Percent CK-BB did not change. Dogs with LAD occlusion had ultrastructural evidence of myopathic fibers interspersed with normal fibers in the LAD myocardium. Dogs with RCA occlusion had no ultrastructural evidence of myopathic fibers in the RCA myocardium. CONCLUSIONS. Chronic coronary artery occlusion causes a pronounced change in the canine myocardial CK system that is limited to the tissue supplied by the occluded coronary artery. These biochemical alterations do not correlate with any cellular ultrastructural changes. Myocardial CK-MB content is dynamic, varies geographically within the heart, and increases rapidly after coronary artery occlusion. 
Segmental neurofibromatosis. Two patients had localized multiple cutaneous neurofibromas; one had bilateral involvement of the scalp and the other had true segmental neurofibromatosis. Other signs of neurofibromatosis were absent. Segmental neurofibromatosis may not be related to the generalized types of neurofibromatosis but may be a cutaneous hamartoma. 
Mandible reconstruction with vascularized bone grafts. A histologic evaluation. To our knowledge, a histologic evaluation of bone healing after mandible reconstruction with vascularized human bone grafts has not been previously reported. Serial sections through both the decalcified graft and the junction between mandible and graft were evaluated in four patients who required surgical removal of their reconstructed mandibles. A failed scapular bone graft that had been wrapped within a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap for salvage following pedicle thrombosis showed markedly resorbed but viable bone with a fibrous union to the native mandible. Viable vascularized grafts without evidence of ongoing resorption characterized an iliac osteocutaneous bone graft and two scapula osteocutaneous grafts that healed with continuity of healthy bone between graft and mandible. Observations from the evaluation of these specimens are made regarding bone circulation, bone union, and bone graft survival as they occur clinically. Implications regarding the techniques of bone plating and indications for use of vascularized bone in mandible reconstruction are discussed. 
Conservative treatment and long term prophylactic thyroxine in the prevention of recurrence of multinodular goiter. It has not been universally agreed upon that there is an optimum treatment for multinodular goiter and that use of thyroxine postoperatively in preventing recurrence is effective. We have studied a group of 185 patients who underwent thyroid gland operations and who were observed for a mean period of 10.25 years. Of these, 171 patients received postoperative thyroxine in a dose of 100 micrograms per day and a small group (14 patients) received no medication. In the group receiving no thyroxine, there were six recurrences, and in the group that received postoperative prophylactic thyroxine, there were nine recurrences, which is statistically significant (p = 0.003 per cent). When recurrences did occur in the thyroxine treated group they were small and easily managed by increasing the dose of thyroxine. No patient who took thyroxine postoperatively continuously underwent a second thyroidectomy. We conclude that, in this series, our policy of resecting only macroscopically pathologic thyroid tissue and prescribing prophylactic postoperative thyroxine is successful in preventing recurrent nodular goiter. 
Immunohistochemical quantification of substance P in spinal dorsal horns of patients with multiple system atrophy. Using a computer-assisted image analyser, an immunohistochemical quantification method of substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPLI) in laminae I + II of spinal dorsal horn was established and applied to 13 patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) with no disturbance of pain sensation, including olivo-ponto-cerebellar atrophy and striatonigral degeneration, and 13 neurologically normal controls. To investigate whether alteration of SPLI is related to an autonomic disorder, myelinated fibre counts of the fourth thoracic ventral roots were performed. Eleven of 13 MSA patients showed a significant decrease in small and large myelinated fibres, and were diagnosed with definite Shy-Drager syndrome (SDS), with the exception of two who had no apparent history of autonomic dysfunction. SPLIs in laminae I + II in 10 of these 11 patients, when adjusted for age, were significantly decreased at both levels of the fourth thoracic and third lumbar spinal segments. The results suggest the disorder of SP-containing synapses of primary afferent neurons and/or those of interneurons in SDS. 
Screening for renovascular hypertension. The most common curable cause of high blood pressure is renovascular hypertension. Although hypertension is common in the United States, only a minority, approximately 1%, of patients have a renovascular cause. Using clinical criteria, a subgroup of these patients can be selected in which the prevalence of renovascular hypertension will be approximately 15%. In these selected patients, it is appropriate to proceed to a radiographic screening modality to look for a significant renal artery stenosis. The choice of modality should reflect the strengths and expertise of each specific institution. Hypertensive urography is no longer recommended for screening. Excellent results have been reported with intravenous DSRA in institutions where a strong interest in this procedure exists. Furthermore, intravenous DSRA is easily coupled with the collection of renal vein samples for renin assay. Intravenous DSRA, however, has not maintained widespread use. Although the radionuclide renogram is no longer adequate as a radiographic screening tool, stimulation with an ACE inhibitor, such as captopril or enalaprilat, may produce excellent results. In many institutions, this is the most appropriate examination. Furthermore, it is relatively noninvasive. Merely detecting a significant renal artery stenosis does not, however, mean the patient has renovascular hypertension. Both hypertension and a renal artery stenosis may be present and not be causally related. Because renovascular hypertension is, at least initially, renin mediated, the demonstration of increased renin production by the ipsilateral kidney should confirm renovascular hypertension. Prospective application of these results to patients undergoing revascularization techniques, however, has been disappointing. This may be related to problems in patient preparation, sample collection, renin assay, or even the physiology of chronic hypertension, which is incompletely renin mediated. Thus, offering revascularization only to those patients with lateralizing renal vein renins is not appropriate. If radiographic screening is limited to those patient at greatest likelihood for a renovascular etiology, intra-arterial DSRA or conventional arteriography may be used. These techniques most reliably detect renal artery stenosis. Their main disadvantage lies in their relatively invasive nature, as an arterial puncture is required. The poor predictive value of selective RVRRs implies that revascularization may be attempted without awaiting those results. If percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty can be performed with a satisfactorily low complication rate, both the diagnostic and the interventional procedure may be undertaken at the same setting. It is expected that further refinements in these diagnostic procedures, particularly with the use of stimulating drugs such as ACE inhibitors, will lead to further improvement in the diagnostic results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Malignant colorectal polyps: venous invasion and successful treatment by endoscopic polypectomy. We reviewed the pathology of 81 malignant colorectal polyps in 80 patients treated by endoscopic polypectomy and assessed the importance of carcinomatous invasion of veins in the stalk (submucosa). All the patients were followed up for at least five years. Venous invasion was present in 30 of the polyps (37%). The histological features of lymphatic invasion were considered too subjective to be of value. Most of the tumours were well or moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas, one was poorly differentiated, and one was a signet ring cell carcinoma. Seventy one patients were treated by polypectomy alone, and 58 of these were alive and well five years later, with no evidence of recurrence. Nine died of unrelated causes within five years, but four died of carcinomatosis: one with recurrent tumour, one with a possible metachronous caecal cancer, and in two patients there was late development of malignancy of uncertain nature. The remaining nine patients underwent surgical resection after initial endoscopic polypectomy because of incompleteness of excision, poor differentiation of the tumour, or a decision by the surgeon. Tumour was not present in the resection specimens apart from a single lymph node deposit in the patient with signet ring cell carcinoma. These nine patients were alive and well without evidence of recurrence five years later. The results reemphasise the necessity of good cooperation between endoscopist and pathologist, meticulous laboratory technique, strict histopathological criteria including examination of resection margins and degree of differentiation of the tumour, and regular endoscopic follow up. 
Acute promyelocytic leukemia in Crohn's disease. Case report and review of the literature. A 19-year-old man with a documented 2-year history of Crohn's disease abruptly developed leukopenia and thrombocytopenia. A diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia was established by bone marrow cytology. Chromosomal analysis of bone marrow aspirate revealed aberrations of no. 8 trisomy and translocation between no. 15 and no. 17 [46,XY,t(15q+,17q-)/47,XY,+8,t(15q+,17q-)]. Nine cases of Crohn's disease complicated by leukemia have been reported, including the present one; once again, a relationship between Crohn's disease and leukemia is suggested. 
Endocrine therapy for desmoid tumors. Two female patients with desmoid tumors (aggressive fibromatosis) showed tumor regression after endocrine therapy. In one patient, tumor response to tamoxifen has been maintained over several years of treatment. In the second patient, who had inoperable mesenteric fibromatosis, the tumor progressed on tamoxifen but regressed after treatment with Zoladex (goserelin acetate, ICI, Melbourne, Australia) and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA). To the authors' knowledge this is the first report of the use of Zoladex in the treatment of desmoid tumors. This review of the literature reveals that the biology of this disease is related to the endogenous hormonal environment and that estrogen receptors have been documented in desmoid tumors. Thirty-five cases are identified where endocrine agents have been employed, with a response rate of 51%. Furthermore, tumors may respond to second-line hormonal therapy after failing to respond to initial endocrine treatment. Endocrine treatments have also been used in other disorders of fibroblastic origin. The authors recommend that endocrine treatment be employed in inoperable desmoid tumors or where there has been postsurgical recurrence. In addition, the role for endocrine therapy in other soft tissue neoplasms should be determined. 
Risk factors for subarachnoid hemorrhage in a longitudinal population study. The known risk factors of atherosclerotic diseases may be involved in the development of a subarachnoid hemorrhage. We studied the morbidity and mortality due to subarachnoid hemorrhage among 42,862 men and women aged 20-69 years who had participated in a large health survey in Finland. During a mean follow-up of 12 years, 102 non-fatal and 85 fatal cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage were observed. The total incidence was 37 per 100,000 person-years. Smoking and hypertension were positively associated and body mass index was inversely associated with the risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage. These associations were not confounded by age or each other. No statistically significant association with risk was detected for serum cholesterol level, hematocrit content, known heart disease, or diabetes. The risk was especially elevated among lean hypertensive subjects and lean smoking subjects. The age-adjusted relative risks of subarachnoid hemorrhage for lean, hypertensive smokers were 18.3 (95% confidence interval (CI), 7.8-42.7) among women and 6.7 (95% CI, 2.3-19.7) among men as compared to the risk among subjects without these risk factors. We conclude that modifiable risk factors are predictive of subarachnoid hemorrhage, for which reason subarachnoid hemorrhage may in part be preventable. Leanness combined with arterial hypertension and/or smoking, in particular, poses a substantially elevated risk. 
On a possible protective effect of HLA-A11 against skin cancer and keratotic skin lesions in renal transplant recipients. Renal transplant recipients who have skin cancer potentially related to human papillomavirus were HLA typed with a special focus on HLA-A11, which in nonimmunosuppressed patients is negatively associated with the occurrence of virus-related carcinoma of the cervix. We found also a negative association between HLA-A11 and skin cancer; none of the 66 transplant recipients with skin cancer were positive for HLA-A11. As HLA-A11 seems to have a protective effect against skin cancer, we speculate that antigens induced by squamous cell carcinomas and possibly also by human papillomavirus may be efficiently presented through HLA-A11 to cytotoxic T cells. We also investigated a possible influence of other HLA alleles on the susceptibility of renal transplant recipients to skin cancer. The frequency of HLA-B27 was significantly higher in the transplant recipients with skin cancer, with a relative risk of 3.4 relative to healthy controls. No significant differences were found for other HLA class I or class II antigens. 
Acute promyelocytic leukemia in Crohn's disease. Case report and review of the literature. A 19-year-old man with a documented 2-year history of Crohn's disease abruptly developed leukopenia and thrombocytopenia. A diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia was established by bone marrow cytology. Chromosomal analysis of bone marrow aspirate revealed aberrations of no. 8 trisomy and translocation between no. 15 and no. 17 [46,XY,t(15q+,17q-)/47,XY,+8,t(15q+,17q-)]. Nine cases of Crohn's disease complicated by leukemia have been reported, including the present one; once again, a relationship between Crohn's disease and leukemia is suggested. 
Glucagon and clonidine testing in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. We assessed the sensitivity and specificity of glucagon stimulation and clonidine suppression tests in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma in 113 hypertensive patients, 39 with and 74 without the tumor. In the glucagon stimulation test, blood was sampled 2 minutes after intravenous injection of 0.28 mumol (1 mg) glucagon, and in the clonidine suppression test, blood was sampled 3 hours after administration of oral clonidine, 1.30 mumol (0.3 mg)/70 kg body wt. Baseline levels of catechols in antecubital venous blood were abnormal, with norepinephrine greater than 7.10 nmol/l (1,200 pg/m), epinephrine greater than 1.51 nmol/l (276 pg/ml), norepinephrine/dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) ratio greater than 1.09, or dopa greater than 35.53 nmol/l (7,000 pg/ml), in 30 of 39 patients with pheochromocytoma (sensitivity 77%) and 1 of 74 patients without pheochromocytoma (specificity 99%). Results of the glucagon test were abnormal (norepinephrine greater than 11.83 nmol/l [2,000 pg/ml] or more than threefold increase from baseline) in 25 of 31 patients with pheochromocytoma (sensitivity 81%) and 0 of 72 patients without pheochromocytoma (specificity 100%). Results of the clonidine test were abnormal (after clonidine norepinephrine greater than 2.96 nmol/l [500 pg/ml] or less than 50% decrease from baseline) in 29 of 30 patients with pheochromocytoma (sensitivity 97%) and in 7 of 30 patients without pheochromocytoma (specificity 67%). Very high baseline levels of catechols therefore indicated the presence of pheochromocytoma, but there were several false-negative results when normal levels were obtained. The glucagon test alone was highly specific but not sensitive, and the clonidine test was highly sensitive but less specific. 
The relationship between locomotor disability, autonomic dysfunction, and the integrity of the striatal dopaminergic system in patients with multiple system atrophy, pure autonomic failure, and Parkinson's disease, studied with PET. 18F-dopa and S-11C-nomifensine (NMF) are positron emitting tracers whose caudate and putamen uptake reflects striatal dopamine storage capacity and the integrity of dopamine reuptake sites, respectively. Using these two tracers, the integrity of the presynaptic striatal dopaminergic system has been studied with positron emission tomography (PET) in 10 subjects with multiple system atrophy (MSA, Shy-Drager syndrome) who had an akinetic-rigid syndrome that was poorly responsive to L-dopa, autonomic failure, and cerebellar ataxia. PET findings for the 10 MSA patients were compared with those for 13 age-matched controls, 8 subjects with L-dopa responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), and 7 subjects with pure autonomic failure (PAF). Influx constants, Ki, reflecting specific 18F-dopa uptake into striatal tissue, were severely reduced in the putamen and caudate of the 10 MSA subjects (mean putamen Ki 0.005 min-1 MSA vs 0.013 min-1 controls; mean caudate Ki 0.007 min-1 MSA vs 0.013 min-1 controls). Reduction of putamen, but not caudate, 18F-dopa uptake correlated with severity and duration of locomotor disability. Eight patients with PD, and a similar degree and duration of locomotor disability to the patients with MSA, demonstrated equal impairment of mean putamen 18F-dopa uptake, but significant preservation of mean caudate function. The 7 PAF patients had normal mean levels of putamen and caudate 18F-dopa uptake, although 1 individual PAF patient had significantly impaired striatal function. The MSA and PD groups of subjects both showed significantly reduced levels of specific striatal S-11C-NMF binding, again caudate function being relatively preserved in PD. It is concluded that in both MSA and PD there is a parallel decline of striatal dopamine storage capacity and reuptake site integrity, probably reflecting a loss of nigrostriatal nerve terminals. Caudate function is relatively preserved in PD compared with MSA. The majority of PAF patients have an intact nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, suggesting that PAF is a condition distinct from PD and MSA in spite of some pathological similarities. PET is capable of detecting subclinical nigrostriatal involvement in PAF patients when this is present. 
Factors affecting decisions made by family members of patients with severe head injury. An exploratory descriptive study was conducted to determine factors affecting decisions made by families of patients with severe head injury during the first two stages of recovery. Nineteen family members of 11 patients participated in this study. Five interviews of each family member were conducted over a 1-month period after the injury. Sixty decisions were identified by family members. Six factors: personal functioning, relationships, information, uncertain outcomes, environment, and emotions, were found to affect these decisions. The six factors identified by family members have specific implications for nursing. 
Birth interval among breast-feeding women not using contraceptives. One hundred twelve Orthodox Jewish mothers were surveyed by means of questionnaire about birth interval in relationship to formula-feeding (n = 30) and breast-feeding (n = 236) experiences in the absence of birth control. Analyses indicate that mothers who breast-fed have longer birth intervals than those who did not. Moreover, data obtained from the same mothers show that birth intervals preceded by breast-feeding were longer than those preceded by formula-feeding of the previous infant. For those mothers who breast-fed, there was significant positive correlation between duration of breast-feeding and the length of lactational amenorrhea and total birth interval. The age at which night feeding was terminated had corresponding but less strong associations with lactational amenorrhea and total birth interval. 
Statistical modeling of prognostic indices for evaluation of critically ill patients. OBJECTIVE: To identify the most predictive association of variables from the usual indices of severity of illness by statistical objective analysis. DESIGN: Logistic regression analysis of the different variables of the most important indices. SETTING: A general critical care medicine group practice in a university hospital. PATIENTS: A total of 630 critical care patients age 12 to 87 yrs were evaluated. The most important indices of severity of illness and the corresponding variables were recorded and the patient's course was followed for 3 months after ICU admission. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: One of our hypotheses was that the inclusion of an excessive number of variables to obtain the most common prognostic indices of mortality in critical care patients results in an underestimation of mortality and a redundancy of prognostic information. We performed a logistic regression analysis using the variables of the currently used indices of critical care prognosis: Acute Physiology Score, Simplified Acute Physiology Score, Acute Physiology Score-II, and Mortality Prediction Model. This mathematical approach resulted in a model of five variables: organ system failure, blood glucose, serum calcium, serum prothrombin activity, and serum osmolality. The score obtained from this model gave accurate prognostic criteria:sensitivity 91.2% and specificity 90%, using a cutoff point of 0.7; sensitivity 86% and, specificity 94%, using a cutoff point of 0.5. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that suitable statistical management of the discriminant prognostic variables allows reduction of the number of variables of the severity indices currently used, obtaining five more predictive variables. 
Enhancement of tumor-associated glycoprotein-72 antigen expression in hormone-related ovarian serous borderline tumors. The immunoreactivity of monoclonal antibody (MoAb) B72.3 with ovarian serous tumors of borderline malignancy from 44 women who were pregnant, were on hormone medication containing a progestin, or were known to be in the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle, was compared with that of similar tumors of 32 patients who were not known to be in any of these three categories. All 76 borderline tumors expressed the tumor-associated glycoprotein (TAG-72) recognized by MoAb B72.3. Striking staining differences (P less than 0.0001) were observed between the hormone-related and the nonhormone-related tumors. Differences were also noticed between the staining of tumors from pregnant patients and that of previous, persistent, or recurrent tumors of the ipsilateral or contralateral ovaries when the same patients were not pregnant. Tumor MoAb B72.3 reactivity increased with progressive gestational age and fell to lower levels at term and during the postpartum period. Although it has been suggested by cell culture studies, enhanced TAG-72 expression in human tumors under hormonal stimulation has not been described before. 
Pilonidal disease: 25 cases treated by the Dufourmentel technique. Twenty-five patients with pilonidal disease were treated by the Dufourmentel technique between 1984 and 1989. In this series, 18 patients (72 percent) were women and 7 (28 percent) were men (mean age, 24 years); hospital stay averaged 4 days. There were no recurrences and no reports of surgical wound infection. Diagnosis was confirmed histologically in all cases. 
Bleeding complications following initiation of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: a comparison of helicopter-transported and nontransported patients. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of helicopter transport of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients after initiation of thrombolysis on bleeding complications through hospital discharge. DESIGN: Prospectively identified incidence (cohort) study. SETTING: Air medical service of tertiary-care teaching hospital. TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: Ninety-five consecutive AMI patients transported within 12 hours of the initiation of thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator were compared with 119 nontransported AMI patients treated in a similar manner. RESULTS: The transported and nontransported populations were similar with regard to age, sex, and infarct location. Transport was well tolerated with no episodes of cardiac arrest or cardioversion occurring during transport. Hypotension requiring fluids or increased pressors occurred in 18 patients. Bleeding complications of all types occurred in 43.2% of the transported and 49.6% of the nontransported patients, respectively (relative risk, 0.87; 95% confidence interval, 0.65 to 1.17). CONCLUSION: Helicopter transport of AMI patients after initiation of thrombolysis appears to be safe acutely and without a clinically significant increase in risk of bleeding complications through hospital discharge when accomplished by a highly skilled team. 
Oral melanoma and other pigmented lesions of the oral cavity. This article presents a review of oral malignant melanoma and other oral cavity pigmented lesions. The dismal prognosis for patients with oral malignant melanoma is partly due to patients' delayed recognition of signs of early disease and delayed diagnosis by physicians. Pigmented macules and plaques in the oral cavity, representing the radial growth phase of tumors, often go unrecognized for months or years before tumor invasion. Therefore, if early detection of thin oral melanomas is to be achieved, all pigmented oral cavity lesions should be viewed with suspicion. Biopsies of such lesions are indicated when the clinical diagnosis is uncertain. Prompt aggressive surgical treatment is essential in reducing the morbidity and mortality from oral melanomas. The differential diagnosis of oral melanomas includes nevi, oral melanotic macules, amalgam tattoos, Kaposi's sarcoma, oral melanoacanthoma, and physiologic pigmentation. 
Social density, stressors, and depression: gender differences among the black elderly. This research examined gender differences with regard to the effects of social density and stressors upon depressive symptomatology among 600 Black elderly community residents (aged 55-85 years) of Nashville, Tennessee. The sample had more females than males and fewer married individuals. Approximately half of the males and females lived alone. Regression analyses show that poor ego and chronic medical problems were the common predictors of depression among both the males and females. Gender differences were found with regard to life events in that females tended to become more depressed as the number of events increased and as level of contact with relatives and friends decreased. Further, females with lower levels of social attachment, guidance, and reliability were more depressed. None of these social support dimensions related to depression among the males. These relationships tended to be stronger for those living alone than for those living with others. 
Maintenance treatment of duodenal ulceration: ranitidine 300 mg at night is better than 150 mg in cigarette smokers. Two hundred patients received either ranitidine 150 mg or 300 mg at night for 18 months to prevent duodenal ulcer relapse. Recurrence rates were lower in patients receiving the higher dose of ranitidine (3.1% v 9.7%, p = 0.78; 6.5% v 16.7%, p = 0.037; and 8.9% v 17.0%, p = 0.121 at six, 12, and 18 months respectively). In patients receiving ranitidine 150 mg, recurrences were significantly more common in smokers than non-smokers after 12 and 18 months, while in patients receiving ranitidine 300 mg recurrence rates were similar in smokers and non-smokers. Ranitidine 300 mg at night abolishes the adverse effect of smoking observed during maintenance treatment with ranitidine 150 mg at night and may therefore be an appropriate maintenance dose for smokers who relapse during standard dose maintenance treatment. 
Impact of dosage schedule on the efficacy of gentamicin, tobramycin, or amikacin in an experimental model of Serratia marcescens endocarditis: in vitro-in vivo correlation. Aminoglycosides are usually considered to be concentration-dependent antibiotics and to have similar pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties. To verify the equivalent activity of the aminoglycosides on a susceptible strain, we tested the killing rate of three aminoglycosides (gentamicin, tobramycin, and amikacin) on one strain of Serratia marcescens both in vitro and in vivo by using a rabbit model of left-ventricle endocarditis. Despite, similar MICs, the time-kill curve of gentamicin was consistently better than those of amikacin and tobramycin, whatever the concentration of each antibiotic used (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32 mg/liter), after a 5-h incubation. The in vivo bacterial reduction in the vegetations was measured 24 h after administration of an intravenous 48-mg/kg bolus of each antibiotic or at the end of a 24-h continuous intravenous infusion of the same dose. Gentamicin was significantly more effective when administered as a bolus than when administered as a continuous infusion (2.8 +/- 0.2 versus 6.4 +/- 1.5 log10 CFU/g of vegetation, respectively; P less than 0.01), whereas amikacin was more effective as a continuous infusion than as a bolus injection (3.6 +/- 2.0 versus 7.5 +/- 1.3 log10 CFU/g of vegetation, respectively; P less than 0.01). Tobramycin was not very effective, whatever the dosage tested (approximately 6.5 to 7 log10 CFU/g). These results suggest that concentration-dependent bactericidal activities, both in vitro and in vivo, may vary greatly among aminoglycosides despite similar MICs. 
Morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in family members of patients with malignant and nonmalignant hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver diseases. Three-hundred forty-one HBsAg-positive family members of 152 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection (47 asymptomatic carriers, 59 with chronic hepatitis, 17 with cirrhosis and 29 with hepatocellular carcinoma) were prospectively studied to determine the morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in the family members of patients with malignant and nonmalignant hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver diseases. Most of the family members had no history of acute hepatitis, were asymptomatic and were unaware of their carrier status. However, 5.3% had stigmata of chronic liver disease, 6% had serum ALT levels that exceeded two times the upper limit of normal and 78% of those who had biopsies had chronic hepatitis with or without cirrhosis. During a follow-up period of 12 to 90 mo (median = 39 mo), 3% had symptoms of chronic liver disease; 24% had transient, recurrent or persistent elevation in serum ALT levels, 1.4% had cirrhosis and 1% had hepatocellular carcinoma. Neither hepatocellular carcinoma in the index patient nor a previous history of hepatocellular carcinoma in the family was associated with an increase in the morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in the HBsAg-positive family members. 
Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis and surgical management of right atrial myxoma. An asymptomatic patient was discovered to have a large right atrial myxoma by transthoracic echocardiography. Preoperative considerations included the possibility of satellite lesions, left atrial origin, and a question of tricuspid valve involvement. Subsequent operative transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated single-stalk attachment in the right atrial septal wall and no satellite lesions. Doppler and color flow examination immediately following tumor removal aided in the decision not to perform tricuspid annuloplasty as there was no significant tricuspid regurgitation. The combined use of transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography with Doppler and color flow imaging aids in the preoperative and intraoperative diagnosis and surgical management of right atrial tumors. 
Age differences in depressive symptom experiences. Age differences in depressive symptom experiences were investigated in a community sample of 368 women between the ages of 51 and 92 who were administered the SCL-90 Depression and Additional Symptoms Scales. Confirmatory factor analysis was used to assess and compare depressive symptom experiences in a younger (age 51-65) and older (age 66-92) age cohort. Findings show that two somewhat different depressive syndromes underlie symptom reporting patterns, one having higher levels in the older age cohort, the other having higher levels in the younger age cohort. In addition, three more delimited forms of distress -- feelings of enervation, dysphoria, and sleep disturbances -- show higher levels among the older cohort. Implications of these findings for future research on the relation between aging and depression are discussed. 
Experimental treatment of thrombotic vascular occlusion. The role of laser energy in the treatment of thrombotic vascular occlusion was evaluated in two sets of experiments. First, 10 polytetrafluoroethylene grafts were used to replace segments of the superficial femoral arteries in dogs and were thrombosed by distal ligation. Occlusion was maintained for one hour, or for 7, 14, 21, and 28 days in each of two grafts. Patency was restored in all 10 grafts without perforation or anastomotic disruption using a 2 mm hot tip probe powered by an Argon laser. However, increased organization of thrombus related to the duration of occlusion lead to decreased laser channel diameters, and 75% of the 28 day thrombus remained in the graft after recanalization. The second experiments tested the added benefit of thrombolytic infusion following laser recanalization. Bilateral external iliac artery thrombosis was induced in dogs by operative vessel isolation, de-endothelialization, and thrombin injection. At 7 days the efficacy of laser-assisted thrombolysis (LAT) versus enzymatic thrombolysis (ET) alone was compared. Eight vessels underwent ET by urokinase (4000 I.U./min.); 14 vessels were laser recanalized prior to thrombolytic infusion. LAT was performed from a carotid artery approach in 8 vessels (antegrade) and from a femoral artery in 6 vessels (retrograde). In contrast to studies using the hot tip alone, both ET and LAT accomplished complete thrombus removal. However, LAT lead to significant iliac arterial flow in 9 +/- 8 min. (antegrade) and 25 +/- 8 min. (retrograde) while ET required 109 +/- 47 min (p less than 0.01). 
Using anticoagulants safely. Guidelines for therapeutic and prophylactic regimens [published erratum appears in Postgrad Med 1991 Sep 1;90(3):48] Heparin and warfarin sodium (Coumadin, Panwarfin, Sofarin) are used most often to treat acute and recurrent venous thromboembolic disease, arterial disease, valvular heart disease, and atrial fibrillation. These agents along with dextran, pneumatic compression devices, and gradient stockings are also used to prevent deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients at high risk (eg, those with venous stasis, lower limb or spinal cord trauma, clotting abnormalities). Anticoagulation therapy is monitored by maintaining the activated partial thromboplastin time and the prothrombin time in the therapeutic range. 
Trends in preterm survival and incidence of cerebral haemorrhage 1980-9. The annual survival rates and incidence of cerebral haemorrhage in 2618 preterm infants of 34 weeks' gestation or less were examined in one referral centre over a 10 year period from January 1980 to December 1989. Survival was independently related to weight, gestation, sex, and inborn delivery. When these variables had been taken into account, survival was 56% greater at the end of the decade compared with 1980. The incidence of cerebral haemorrhage (diagnosed by cranial ultrasound scanning) was related to birth weight, gestation, sex, inborn delivery, and caesarean section, but there was no significant trend in the incidence with time. Rates of caesarean section in this group increased from 31% in 1980 to over 50% more recently. Haemorrhage affecting the brain parenchyma was related to gestation and inborn delivery, and showed a small but significant decline over time. The lack of association between changes in survival rates and rates of cerebral haemorrhage may indicate that factors associated with both neonatal mortality and the incidence of cerebral haemorrhage may not be causally related as previously assumed. 
Endoscopy as an adjuvant to biliary radiologic intervention. Twenty-two patients underwent 24 percutaneous biliary procedures guided with choledochoscopy, an adjunctive percutaneous biliary technique. All but four procedures were performed through established percutaneous tracts; the others, through tracts less than 4 weeks old. The procedures were done for the following reasons: removal of calculi (n = 15), electrohydraulic lithotripsy (n = 1), biliary duct biopsies (n = 8), cauterization of a bleeding tract (n = 1), and evaluation of biliary-enteric anastomoses (n = 11). The only complication was one case of severe nausea after choledochoscopy. This patient required overnight hospitalization and medical treatment. All procedures were technically successful, except one case in which the tract was undersized. All patients received intravenously administered antibiotics before and after the procedure. It is concluded that choledochoscopy is a safe, atraumatic, and well-tolerated method of evaluating and treating biliary disease and that it markedly reduces radiation exposure. It can be performed rapidly with minimal sedation on an in- or outpatient basis. 
Blood transfusion and laryngeal cancer. Evidence exists to suggest a detrimental effect of blood transfusion on survival after resection for malignant disease. Immune suppression due to transfusion has been implicated, though this remains unproven. We have conducted a retrospective study of 69 patients (38 transfused, 31 not transfused) with squamous carcinoma of the larynx to assess the effect of blood transfusion on survival after laryngectomy. Patients were compared for age, sex, smoking habit, tumour site and stage, grade of operating surgeon, preoperative haemoglobin, tumour nucleolar organizer region status, and operation time. The minimum follow-up was 5 years. In the transfused group 21/38 died as a result of their malignant disease and only 4/31 in the untransfused group. This difference was highly significant (P less than 0.001, chi-squared test) and using a multivariate analysis the only variable associated with a decreased survival time was whether a blood transfusion had been received. We conclude that peri-operative blood transfusion is associated with decreased survival after laryngectomy. However, whether this association is causal remains unproven. 
L-tryptophan supplementation does not affect postoperative pain intensity or consumption of analgesics. Aiming at optimizing serotonin levels in endogenous pain-modulating systems, L-tryptophan supplementation pre- and postoperatively (2 g/day for 7 days) did not affect pain development or analgesic consumption after third molar surgery. Biological effects related to an increase in mood were observed, however, indicating transport of L-tryptophan to the central nervous system. The findings are discussed in relation to earlier reports on favorable effects of L-tryptophan on experimental pain in healthy subjects and in chronic pain patients. 
A chemical score to evaluate the protein quality of commercial parenteral and enteral formulas: emphasis on formulas for patients with liver failure. Essential amino acids, found in abundance in high-quality dietary protein, are required daily by hospitalized patients and healthy persons to maintain the dynamic process of protein metabolism. One method for assessing dietary protein quality is by determining a diet's chemical score, ie, the ratio of a gram of the limiting amino acid in a test diet to the same amount of the corresponding amino acid in a reference diet (eg, whole-egg protein) multiplied by 100. This investigation used the chemical score to evaluate the protein quality of 9 parenteral and 17 enteral diets commonly used to feed hospitalized patients. Standard parenteral and enteral products (ie, formulas that had not been designed for patients with a specific disease state) had chemical scores that ranged from 46% to 70%. Limiting amino acids were either methionine (plus cysteine) or phenylalanine (plus tyrosine). Products designed for patients with renal failure had the highest scores, which ranged from 85% to 145%. Products that were enriched with branched-chain amino acids for trauma patients had scores that ranged from 38% to 73%. The only product available for patients with pulmonary compromise had a score of 50%. The lowest scores, which ranged from 5% to 13%, were found in products for patients with hepatic failure. All products, except those with chemical scores below 13%, may be fed in relatively small amounts of protein (7 to 33 g) to satisfy the minimum daily requirements of essential amino acids, although such levels would not meet minimal daily nitrogen requirements. We recommend that dietitians use the chemical score to assess the protein quality of parenteral and enteral diets. 
Cecal rupture after continent ileocecal urinary diversion during total pelvic exenteration. Continent ureteral diversion at the time of pelvic exenteration avoids an external appliance and allows patients to retain "bladder" reservoir function. The technical difficulty of this procedure requires meticulous attention to operative and perioperative care, particularly after pelvic irradiation. A patient with recurrent stage IIIB carcinoma of the cervix underwent total pelvic exenteration with reconstructive procedures including low rectal anastomosis, neovagina formation, and ileocecal (Indiana) continent diversion. Early catheterization of the reservoir began 2 weeks postoperatively. One week later cecal rupture occurred, not related to suture line (technical) failure. Because of the high wall tension and reduced compliance in the irradiated cecum, we do not recommend catheterization of the urinary reservoir before 4-6 weeks. In order for continent diversion to become the standard diversion in exenteration patients, the major complication rate must remain comparable to that of noncontinent diversion. 
Percutaneous transhepatic choledochoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy for common bile duct stones: experience in four high-risk patients. Choledochoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy was applied through a percutaneous transhepatic approach in four high-risk patients with common bile duct stones that were not extractable by duodenoscopic means. All stones were fragmented and removed from three patients, but one patient died from bronchopneumonia before ductal clearance could be achieved. The procedure was well tolerated, without any complication. The major disadvantage is the multiple maneuvers required and the prolonged hospital stay. Percutaneous transhepatic choledochoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy provides a safe and effective alternative for nonoperative treatment of common bile duct stones in high-risk patients when the duodenoscopic approach fails. 
Evaluation of the extracranial carotid arteries: correlation of magnetic resonance angiography, duplex ultrasonography, and conventional angiography. We compared duplex scanning, "bright blood" and "black blood" magnetic resonance angiography, and conventional angiography for evaluation of the extracranial carotid arteries. All three methods were applied to 39 vessels in 20 patients. Duplex scanning was inaccurate when compared to conventional angiography in six instances. In three instances the degree of stenosis was overgraded by the scanner, and in three cases the stenosis was undergraded. Magnetic resonance angiography was inaccurate when compared to conventional angiography in three instances. In all cases magnetic resonance angiography overgraded the degree of stenosis. By use of a greater than 70% stenosis as a positive study, the sensitivity of magnetic resonance angiography was 100% and the specificity 92%. With use of the same criteria, the sensitivity of duplex scanning was 86%, and specificity was 84%. In those evaluations where the results of the magnetic resonance angiography and duplex scanning were in agreement, the correlation with conventional angiography was 100%. We conclude that magnetic resonance angiography is an alternative means to duplex scanning for noninvasive carotid imaging. A combination of bright and black blood magnetic resonance angiography is precise in delineating lesions of the extracranial carotid artery and may ultimately eliminate the need for conventional angiography in the evaluation of carotid stenosis. 
Percutaneous balloon valvotomy for the treatment of isolated tricuspid stenosis. A 46-year-old woman with isolated tricuspid stenosis complained of increasing fatigue and dyspnea on exertion. Exercise Doppler echocardiography reproduced her symptoms and revealed a marked increase in trans-tricuspid gradient. Successful percutaneous balloon tricuspid valvotomy was performed, with resolution of her symptoms. 
Urticaria and angioedema: diagnosis and evaluation. Because urticaria clears spontaneously in most patients, an extensive workup is not advised during the early weeks of an urticarial eruption. Whether and when to perform a screening workup or a more extensive workup depend on the degree of suspicion that the patient is ill, the urgency with which the patient presses for an answer, and the presence or absence of signs or symptoms that might lead the physician to pursue a diagnosis other than chronic idiopathic urticaria. Angioedema may occur with urticaria, and when it does, the prognosis is worse. Whereas urticaria manifests as circumscribed edema involving the superficial dermis, angioedema involves primarily the deep dermis or subcutaneous or deeper layers. Individual urticarial lesions usually disappear within 2 to 4 hours, whereas those of angioedema can persist for 72 hours. The workup for patients with chronic angioedema can be similar to that for patients with urticaria. However, several additional diagnostic possibilities should be pursued in patients with angioedema, such as hereditary angioedema caused by C1-esterase inhibitor deficiency, because anabolic steroids are effective in the treatment of these conditions. 
Hemodynamic effects of octreotide in patients with autonomic neuropathy. BACKGROUND. The somatostatin analogue, ectrootide, is being used to treat postprandial hypotension in patients with autonomic neuropathy. Although the therapeutic effect of the drug is presumably secondary to a splanchnic vasoconstrictor action, its effect on splanchnic hemodynamics has never been characterized in patients with autonomic neuropathy. Moreover, it is unknown whether octreotide acts on other vascular beds in this group of patients or whether it affects cardiac output. We, therefore, measured splanchnic, forearm, and systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output before and after administering octreotide (0.4 microgram/kg s.c.) to patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy and diabetic autonomic neuropathy. METHODS AND RESULTS. Splanchnic blood flow was determined from the clearance of indocyanine green in seven patients. We observed that octreotide decreased splanchnic blood flow (from 850 +/- 77 to 664 +/- 48 ml/min, p less than 0.005), increased mean blood pressure (from 97 +/- 6 to 115 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.005), and increased splanchnic vascular resistance (from 0.118 +/- 0.012 to 0.18 +/- 0.018 mm Hg/ml/min, p less than 0.005). Forearm blood flow was measured by plethysmography in 13 patients. Octreotide increased forearm vascular resistance in patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy (n = 8) from 19.1 +/- 1.0 to 27.2 +/- 3.8 mm Hg/ml/min/100 ml forearm volume (p less than 0.01) and from 25.2 +/- 3.9 to 41.0 +/- 6.8 mm Hg/ml/min/100 ml (p less than 0.01) in patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy (n = 5). Cardiac output was measured by two-dimensional echocardiography. Octreotide administration increased cardiac output in five of six patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy (from 4.4 +/- 0.4 to 5.0 +/- 0.5 l/min, p less than 0.02) and five of five patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy (from 3.8 +/- 0.4 to 5.1 +/- 0.4 l/min, p less than 0.02). Systemic vascular resistance increased in patients with idiopathic autonomic neuropathy from 21.2 +/- 2 to 24.9 +/- 2.6 (p less than 0.05) but did not change in patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy. CONCLUSION. The pressor effect of octreotide in patients with autonomic neuropathy is associated with increased splanchnic and forearm vascular resistance and with increased cardiac output. 
Persistence of hepatitis B viral DNA after serological recovery from hepatitis B virus infection. Chronic hepatitis B virus infection is a major medical problem worldwide. Apart from HBsAg carriers, hepatitis B virus has also been identified in some HBsAg-individuals with or without antibodies to viral antigens. The molecular mechanisms underlying hepatitis B virus persistence in HBsAg-individuals are unresolved, however. To identify a possible genetic basis for viral persistence, we cloned the viral genome from the liver of a patient serologically immune to hepatitis B virus infection. DNA sequence analysis of the complete viral genome identified numerous mutations in all viral genes. Analysis of the biological effects of these mutations revealed three major findings: a low level of HBsAg synthesis, absence of HBeAg production and a defect terminating viral replication. These data suggest that mutations accumulating during the natural course of hepatitis B virus infection may be a mechanism underlying viral persistence in HBsAg-individuals, presumably through escape from immune surveillance. 
Complete ophthalmoplegia as a complication of acute corticosteroid- and pancuronium-associated myopathy. We report acute complete external ophthalmoplegia and severe myopathy in a patient treated with high doses of IV methylprednisolone and pancuronium. Awareness of this rare syndrome in a common clinical setting can lead to prompt recognition and avoid confusion with other causes of acute weakness and ophthalmoparesis. 
Feasibility of universal screening mammography. Lessons from a community intervention. It is estimated that 44,500 American women will die of breast cancer in 1991. The breast cancer screening guidelines of the American Cancer Society and the National Cancer Institute calling for annual mammography for all women older than 50 years have been endorsed by numerous professional groups. Third-party reimbursement for screening mammography is becoming more prevalent, and payment for screening mammography is now a Medicare benefit. Our studies, conducted as part of a National Cancer Institute grant to increase the routine use of screening mammography and clinical breast examination in women 50 to 75 years of age, have uncovered a number of significant barriers to the implementation of screening guidelines among women, primary care physicians, and providers of mammography services. These barriers, as well as methods to assure the quality of mammography, need to be addressed before universal screening is feasible. 
The association of laryngoceles with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. The clinical diagnosis of laryngoceles simultaneously occurring with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx is infrequent; however, when specimens from patients with laryngeal cancer have been examined closely, the two entities have been associated in 4.9% to 28.8% of cases. Despite this apparent relationship, the literature has failed to address the potential impact of a concurrent laryngocele on surgical decision making. Also, the wide variation in the reported rates of simultaneous occurrence of these two entities is unexplained. We performed whole-organ histopathologic analysis on a laryngeal specimen with bilateral external laryngoceles associated with squamous cell carcinoma and correlated this to computed tomography findings. Based on this information and other reports concerning the pattern of spread of carcinoma within laryngoceles, it appears that supraglottic laryngectomy is oncologically sound in the presence of a laryngocele as long as the usual criteria for this procedure are met. 
Esophageal motility disorders and chest pain. Motility abnormalities have long been recognized as a possible esophageal cause of chest pain; however, their exact role and prevalence remain largely unknown. Baseline manometry and the various provocative tests may suggest an esophageal origin, but their yield is low. The recent advent of prolonged ambulatory monitoring of intraesophageal pressure and the assessment of psychological factors are contributing to a clearer understanding of this complex problem. 
Absent left main coronary artery: angiographic findings in 83 patients with separate ostia of the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries at the left aortic sinus. Among 20,332 adult patients who underwent consecutive cardiac catheterization and coronary arteriography, 83 (0.4%) were angiographically identified as having an absent left main coronary artery. The angiographic characteristics of this coronary anomaly include: (1) the presence of two well-separated coronary ostia at the left aortic sinus resulting in separate origin of the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries; (2) an increased incidence of left coronary dominance; (3) a higher (6%) than usual (0.5% to 1.5%) incidence of myocardial bridging; (4) lack of a high incidence of congenital heart anomalies; and (5) an incidence of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease similar to that of patients whose left main artery is intact. In 39% of the patients difficulties in selectively cannulating the separate ostium of the circumflex artery and adequately opacifying this vessel resulted in a need to change the diagnostic catheter size. Recognition of this coronary anomaly is needed to ensure accurate angiographic interpretation and is important for patients undergoing cardiac surgery to selectively perfuse these separate vessels during cardiopulmonary bypass. 
Popliteal aneurysm with spontaneous arteriovenous fistula. This report documents a rare manifestation of aneurysmal disease of the popliteal artery. We describe a popliteal aneurysm presenting with acute venous hypertension due to a spontaneously occurring arteriovenous fistula. The fistula was defunctionalized by treating the aneurysm with a standard technique of exclusion and bypass with resolution of the symptoms of venous hypertension and maintenance of normal distal perfusion. 
Liver dysfunction associated with long-term total parenteral nutrition in patients with massive bowel resection. Sixteen patients with massive bowel resection receiving long-term home total parenteral nutrition (HTPN) for 31 to 145 months were reviewed for evidence of liver disease. Patients were divided into three groups: group 1 with duodenocolostomy (n = 3), group 2 with an estimated 15-43 cm residual small bowel (n = 7), and group 3 with an estimated 55-120 cm residual small bowel (n = 6). Two patients in group 1 developed liver cirrhosis; one was diabetic and died of sepsis and liver failure at the 88th month on HTPN; the other died of lung cancer at the 46th month on HTPN. The third patient, followed for 33 months, had transient severe liver function abnormalities associated with a blood transfusion. In groups 2 and 3, only one patient (with a history of probable liver disease before HTPN) developed biopsy-proven cirrhosis at the 60th month of HTPN. All four patients with clinically apparent liver disease developed persistent elevation of serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) early in HTPN. Four other patients (all in group 3) with abnormal AST values in the early phase of HTPN normalized them later; they did not develop clinical liver disease over a mean follow-up time of 110 months (range, 39-152). None of the remaining eight patients (seven in group 2 and one in group 3) had significant liver function test abnormalities and none developed clinical liver disease over a mean follow-up period of 72 months (range, 39-120). 
Prenatal hepatitis B testing in a midsize southern city. Universal prenatal screening for hepatitis B in low-risk populations remains controversial. The purpose of this study was to characterize the obstetric population of the city/county hospital in a midsize southern city. A total of 2013 patients were screened for hepatitis B surface antigen and antibody between June 1988 and February 1990, with 1893 negative for both, 105 (5.2%) positive for surface antibody, and 15 (0.8%) positive for surface antigen. Only 25% of the patients with positive results of hepatitis B screening would have been identified by the 1984 Centers for Disease Control risk group criteria, and no other predictive features were identified. We conclude that universal prenatal screening for hepatitis B is indicated in low-risk populations because of the high prevalence and the lack of predictive features. 
Hypertension sustains plaque progression despite reduction of hypercholesterolemia. To assess the effect of hypertension on diet-induced coronary artery plaques after a return to a nonatherogenic diet, 10 cynomolgus monkeys were fed an induction regimen containing 2% cholesterol and 25% peanut oil for 6 months and then were subjected to midthoracic aortic coarctation to induce hypertension. The animals were then fed a nonatherogenic "prudent" ration for 6 additional months (hypertension-regression group). Twelve additional monkeys were fed the atherogenic diet for 6 months; six were killed (lesion-induction control group) and six were changed to the prudent diet for 6 additional months without coarctation (normotension-regression control group). At the end of the induction period, cholesterol levels averaged 744 +/- 178 mg/dl for the 22 animals and were similar for the three groups throughout the induction period. For the animals restored to the nonatherogenic diet (hypertension-regression and normotension-regression groups), serum cholesterol levels fell to 486 +/- 252 mg/dl at 1 month, to 341 +/- 162 mg/dl at 2 months, and to 234 +/- 78 mg/dl at 6 months. There was no significant difference between the hypertensive and normotensive animals. Six months after coarctation, blood pressure proximal to the coarctations for the hypertension-regression group ranged from 100/60 to 220/145 mm Hg with a mean of 166/103 +/- 36/28 mm Hg. Cross-sectional area of coronary plaques was somewhat lower for the normotension-regression control group compared with the lesion-induction control group, but the difference was not significant. Plaque area was, however, markedly greater in the hypertension-regression group than in either the lesion-induction or the normotension-regression groups (p less than 0.05 for each) despite progressive reduction in hyperlipidemia. 
Public health consequences of acute displacement of Iraqi citizens--March-May 1991. In late March 1991, following military and civil strife in Iraq, approximately 400,000 ethnic Kurds and other Iraqi minority groups sought refuge in rugged mountains on the border of Iraq and Turkey; an additional estimated 1.3 million Iraqi refugees fled to Iran. In contrast to groups affected in other recent refugee emergencies, a large proportion of this displaced population comprised educated urban dwellers. This report describes the major public health consequences of this population displacement and international relief efforts directed toward these problems. 
Serum interleukin-6 levels correlate with disease status in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. Interleukin-6 is a pleiotropic cytokine with a wide range of effects, including induction of B-cell and cytotoxic T-cell differentiation, and induction of acute phase reactant production by hepatocytes. Interleukin-6 also can act as an autocrine growth factor in malignancy. Various cell types produce interleukin-6, including T and B cells, monocytes, fibroblasts, and some solid tumor cells. In previous work we detected the production of substantial amounts of interleukin-6 by human ovarian cancer cells, including the ovarian cancer cell lines CAOV-3, OVCAR-3, and SKOV-3, and several primary ovarian tumor cultures. In this study we retrospectively examined 90 separate serum specimens for interleukin-6 in 36 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. The mean serum interleukin-6 concentration of those ovarian cancer patients with macroscopic disease (n = 57) was 0.26 +/- 0.04 U/ml (mean +/- SEM). Healthy adult donors have interleukin-6 serum levels of 0.12 +/- 0.03 U/ml. Sixteen of 21 ovarian cancer patients with macroscopic disease (76%) had elevated (greater than 0.20 U/ml) levels of serum interleukin-6, with levels approaching 1 U/ml in some patients (p less than 0.01). Of those nine patients with bulky tumor (residual greater than 2 cm), eight (89%) had an elevated interleukin-6 level (mean, 0.31 +/- 0.05), while eight of 12 (66%) with minimal residual disease (less than 2 cm) had elevated levels. Only two of 15 (13%) patients who were in clinical remission and who had microscopic disease had elevated values. Of the 36 patients, 22 were CA 125 negative (less than 35 U/ml), and of these, four had elevated interleukin-6 levels. Of the 14 patients with an elevated CA 125 level, 12 (86%) had elevated interleukin-6 levels. In those 16 patients in whom serial levels of interleukin-6 were measured, rising levels were found over a 3 to 4 month interval in nine (56%); this correlated with tumor progression. Furthermore, the subsequent survival of patients was shown to correlate with the level of interleukin-6, such that patients whose levels were elevated greater than 0.20 U/ml interleukin-6 survived a mean of 12.5 months, compared with 27.2 months for patients with normal levels (p less than 0.001). These data support the concept that interleukin-6 may be a useful tumor marker in some patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, as it correlates with the tumor burden, clinical disease status, and survival. 
The nature of congenital posterior cervical or cervicothoracic midline cutaneous mass lesions. Report of eight cases. Between 4% and 8% of cases of spina bifida cystica occur in a cervical or cervicothoracic location. Despite a large body of literature concerning spinal dysraphism, there has been little written specifically about patients afflicted with this disorder in a cervical location. Eight children who presented at birth with posterior cervical or cervicothoracic lumps, all of which represented a dysraphic state, are discussed. Two types of abnormalities were noted. Three patients had hydromyelia with an associated myelocystocele herniating posteriorly into a meningocele sac. In these three patients there was an associated Chiari II malformation and hydrocephalus. The other five children had a meningocele in which a band of tissue extended from the posterior aspect of the spinal cord through a defect in the bone and fascia to the posterior part of the meningocele sac itself. No patient had a lesion that could be described as a meningomyelocele. The investigation and surgical management of these conditions are discussed and the need for intradural exploration to untether the spinal cord in the cervical region is stressed. 
MSG and hydrolyzed vegetable protein induced headache: review and case studies. Monosodium glutamate (MSG), an established headache trigger, has become far more prevalent in canned, packaged and prepared foods over the past decade. The presence of MSG in food may be difficult to detect since the terms "natural flavor," "flavoring," or "hydrolyzed vegetable protein (HVP)," all may appear on food labels to refer to MSG, according to current FDA food labeling codes. HVP typically contains 10-30% MSG. Case studies are presented in which the elimination of all food sources of MSG resulted in decreased headache frequency. Information and food lists helpful in identifying dietary MSG and HVP are presented. When patients are put on an MSG-free trial diet, attention needs to be given to identification of the wide variety of foods containing MSG and HVP. 
Identification of false positive exercise tests with use of electrocardiographic criteria: a possible role for atrial repolarization waves Atrial repolarization waves are opposite in direction to P waves, may have a magnitude of 100 to 200 mu V and may extend into the ST segment and T wave. It was postulated that exaggerated atrial repolarization waves during exercise could produce ST segment depression mimicking myocardial ischemia. The P waves, PR segments and ST segments were studied in leads II, III, aVF and V4 to V6 in 69 patients whose exercise electrocardiogram (ECG) suggested ischemia (100 mu V horizontal or 150 mu V upsloping ST depression 80 ms after the J point). All had a normal ECG at rest. The exercise test in 25 patients (52% male, mean age 53 years) was deemed false positive because of normal coronary arteriograms and left ventricular function (5 patients) or normal stress single photon emission computed tomographic thallium or gated blood pool scans (16 patients), or both (4 patients). Forty-four patients with a similar age and gender distribution, anginal chest pain and at least one coronary stenosis greater than or equal to 80% served as a true positive control group. The false positive group was characterized by 1) markedly downsloping PR segments at peak exercise, 2) longer exercise time and more rapid peak exercise heart rate than those of the true positive group, and 3) absence of exercise-induced chest pain. The false positive group also displayed significantly greater absolute P wave amplitudes at peak exercise and greater augmentation of P wave amplitude by exercise in all six ECG leads than were observed in the true positive group. 
Supravalvar aortic stenosis: a 29-year review of surgical experience Between February 1960 and August 1989, 73 consecutive patients underwent surgical correction for supravalvar aortic stenosis (SVAS) at the Texas Heart Institute. There were 43 male (59%) and 30 female patients (41%) ranging in age from 5 days to 27 years (mean age, 12 years). Preoperatively, 8 patients were in New York Heart Association functional class I, 43 in class II, 18 in class III, and 4 in class IV. Of the 73 patients, 62 had localized SVAS and 11 (15%), diffuse SVAS. For all procedures, patients were placed on cardiopulmonary bypass. Those with localized SVAS were successfully treated with patch aortoplasty, whereas those with diffuse SVAS required either an apicoaortic conduit or extensive end-arterectomy with extended patch aortoplasty. There were eight early deaths (less than or equal to 30 days postoperatively) (11%) and four late deaths (greater than 30 days postoperatively) (6%) in a follow-up period ranging from 2 months to 28 years. Sixteen patients (25%) underwent one or more additional operations in the follow-up period. Postoperatively, there were 44 patients in New York Heart Association functional class I and 17 in class II. Preoperative functional class III and class IV (p less than 0.0005), diffuse SVAS (p = 0.05), and the presence of associated congenital defects (p less than 0.01) were important determinants of death. 
An innovative method for neuraxis radiotherapy using partial transmission block technique. Whole CNS (neuraxis) radiotherapy is an important part of therapy for certain CNS tumours which seed via the CSF. Many, if not the majority, of these predominantly young patients are cured but the neuropsychometric, neuroendocrine and growth morbidity of neuraxis radiotherapy on children by conventional methods may be considerable; patients receiving such therapy at an early age often are eventually in the educationally subnormal category. Recent radiobiological data support the concept that all aspects of CNS radiation tolerance are heavily dependent on daily fraction size. We describe a new radiotherapy technique that allows lower daily fraction sizes to be delivered to the neuraxis without prejudicing the total dose to the neuraxis or primary area and without prolonging the overall treatment time. Published radiobiological data support the concept that all the major morbidities attributed to conventional neuraxis radiotherapy will be reduced by the currently described technique without reducing tumour control rates. 
Mechanical obstruction to ventilation from an ovarian cyst during pregnancy. This report documents the danger of the gravid uterus fixing a large ovarian cyst in a position disadvantageous to diaphragmatic excursion and thereby obstructing ventilation. A 34-year-old pregnant patient presented at 18 weeks amenorrhoea with a large ovarian cyst. She gave a history of exertional dyspnoea and orthopnoea. Clinical examination revealed a grossly enlarged abdomen and a respiratory rate of 28 breaths.min-1. Intraoperatively, ventilation was markedly impaired resulting in cyanosis and bradycardia. This was relieved by drainage of the ovarian cyst. A left lateral tilt with manual traction on the tumour may have avoided this problem. Should the above measures be inadequate, immediate drainage of the cyst is essential. Severe respiratory distress may require ultrasound-guided, percutaneous, aspiration of the cyst preoperatively. However, as in this patient, the absence of gross signs of respiratory failure does not preclude acute ventilatory failure after induction of anaesthesia. 
Different lectin-binding patterns in primary breast cancers and their metastases. The expression of glycoconjugates in primary tumors and their metastases in 18 consecutive cases of metastasized breast cancer was studied by use of lectin histochemistry. Paraffin sections were stained with a panel of seven fluorochrome-labeled lectins with defined sugar specificities. The study revealed variation in the lectin binding patterns of individual cancers. In the primary tumors the lectin reactivity was diversified, whereas in their respective metastases it was rather homogeneous. This finding indicates that there is intratumoral heterogeneity in the primary cancers, whereas the selected subclones of malignant cells with restricted glycoconjugate expression seem to give rise to metastases. 
A report of familial carotid body tumors and multiple extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas. A case of familial carotid body tumors and multiple extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas is reported. The carotid body tumors, resected previously, were bilateral and associated with 4 intra-abdominal extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas. Magnetic resonance imaging was far superior to computerized tomography and 131iodine-metaiodobenzylguanidine in visualizing the intra-abdominal lesions, and may soon become the imaging technique of choice in the evaluation of patients with suspected pheochromocytoma. 
Prevention of alloimmunization in patients with acute leukemia by use of white cell-reduced blood components--a randomized trial. Platelet refractoriness arising from HLA alloimmunization is a serious complication of transfusion therapy. In a prospective randomized trial, white cell (WBC)-reduced blood components were compared to standard platelet and red cell concentrates with respect to alloimmunization, refractoriness, and platelet increments after transfusion. Sixteen of 31 adult acute leukemia patients received only WBC-reduced platelet concentrates (PCs) and red cells (RBCs), with fewer than 10(6) WBCs per unit. Fifteen control patients received standard blood components with a mean of 0.1 x 10(9) (PCs) and 1 x 10(9) (RBCs) WBCs per unit. Platelet loss during cotton-wool filtration averaged 14 percent (range, 3-32%) from fresh PCs and 24 percent (range, 9-62%) from stored PCs. Filtration did not change corrected increments (CI) measured after transfusion of fresh PCs. The Cl 1 hour after filtration of stored PCs diminished by 27 percent, but the difference was smaller after 18 hours, which suggests better survival of WBC-reduced platelets. The number of platelet units transfused did not differ in the two groups. No patient in the WBC-reduced group developed permanent platelet refractoriness; transient HLA antibodies of low titer developed in two patients. In the control group, one patient became refractory because of immunization and two developed transient HLA antibodies. It can be concluded that the reduction of WBCs in blood components can effectively prevent alloimmunization. 
Basophil-bound and serum immunoglobulin E directed against Helicobacter pylori in patients with chronic gastritis. The immunoglobulin (Ig) E immune response in patients with Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis has been evaluated. Of 26 patients with H. pylori infection, 22 (84%) tested positive for basophil-bound specific IgE (determined by the histamine release test) and 18 (69%) for serum specific IgE (determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). In contrast, only 1 of 17 persons in whom the bacterium was not detected presented cell-bound and serum specific IgE. In the 4 histamine release test--positive but enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay--negative patients, removal of antibody from the basophil surface by acid elution showed that histamine release occurred through an IgE-dependent mechanism. When normal basophils, passively sensitized with serum from IgE-positive patients, were exposed to the H. pylori antigen, a significant release was observed, confirming the class specificity of the response. Inhibition experiments with bacteria other than H. pylori showed that the IgE antibody was specifically directed against this organism. The percentage of antigen-induced histamine release did not correlate with serum specific IgE level. However, the response of basophils to antigenic challenge was proportional to IgE-dependent cellular releasability. This finding suggests that target cell sensitivity may be the most important factor in determining the entity of biological response to the antigenic challenge. The ability of H. pylori to induce a specific IgE immune response could answer key questions regarding the mechanisms inducing gastric inflammation. 
Personality traits in the mechanisms of interferential therapy for osteoarthritic knee pain. The role of hypochondriacal, depressive, and hysterical personality traits in response to interferential therapy (IFT) was studied in 50 patients with chronic knee osteoarthrosis. Personality traits were assessed through the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory. Each patient received ten sessions of IFT during two weeks. Pain relief was assessed subjectively (with a numerical pain-relief scale) at the end of treatment and one week later in a single-blind method. Patients who experienced pain relief of 50% or more were considered responders (n = 22). Those who experienced pain relief of 25% or less were considered nonresponders (n = 24). No statistically significant difference was found between the two groups on any of the personality traits studied. These personality traits apparently have no effect on the response of osteoarthritic knee pain to IFT. 
Human gallbladder morphology after gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether. The effects of methyl tert-butyl ether exposure on the human gallbladder in five patients who were treated for gallstones by contact dissolution is described. Two patients underwent cholecystectomy within 1 week of methyl tert-butyl ether treatment, one patient 2 weeks after, another 10 weeks after, and one 12 weeks after. Indications for cholecystectomy were bilirubinate stones (resistant to methyl tert-butyl ether), catheter dislodgement, bile leakage, and gallstone recurrence (2 patients). Gallstones were dissolved completely in three patients, there was approximately 50% stone reduction in one patient, and no dissolution occurred in the fifth patient. Each gallbladder was examined grossly and histologically. Electron microscopic evaluation was performed in one cases. Typical inflammatory findings of chronic cholecystitis were observed in each gallbladder and were most conspicuous in the submucosa; the mucosal and serosal surfaces were intact. Mild acute inflammatory changes were noted in the submucosa in the two patients with the shortest interval between methyl tert-butyl ether administration and cholecystectomy. There were no ulcerations in the mucosa and no unusual wall thickening or fibrosis in any patient. These observations support the safety of methyl tert-butyl ether perfusion in the human gallbladder; the mild acute changes may be a transient and reversible phenomenon. 
Extensive hepatic granulomas associated with peripheral T-cell lymphoma. A case of T-cell lymphoma presenting with marked hepatosplenomegaly and extensive hepatic granulomas is described. A 55-yr-old female experienced long-term liver damage showing histological triaditis with atypical lymphoid cell infiltration and erythrophagocytosis. The patient developed marked hepatosplenomegaly and eventually died of respiratory failure. Neither systemic lymphadenopathy nor hematological disorder was noted until her death. Autopsy revealed small atypical lymphoid cells positive for T-cell marker, as well as extensive infiltration of generalized organs, including the liver, spleen, and lungs. As a result of diffuse proliferation of atypical lymphoid cell admixed with variable reactive cells, mainly at the T-zone, the lymph nodes underwent effacement of normal architecture; however, the peripheral sinuses and the fibrous capsule remained relatively well preserved. These histological features were consistent with a diagnosis of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTL). It is interesting to note that there were numerous epithelioid granulomas admixed with a small number of atypical lymphoid cells within the hepatic parenchyma. The atypical lymphoid cells may be responsible for the granulomatous reaction in the liver. To our knowledge, there have been no other reported cases of PTL that presented with numerous epithelioid granulomas confined to the liver. 
Aggressive malignant hemangiopericytoma in the neck. Hemangiopericytomas are rare vascular tumors, one fourth of which occur in the head and neck. These lesions are characteristically slow growing and slow to metastasize. We describe an otherwise healthy patient with a hemangiopericytoma on the left side of his neck that metastasized to his chest wall within 3 months after the tumor was first observed. The metastasis occurred while the patient was receiving radiation therapy. The patient died soon afterward. This case illustrates the aggressive malignant potential of hemangiopericytomas. 
Immunization response varies with intensity of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy. Twenty-four children receiving maintenance chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia were given booster doses of tetanus-diphtheria combined toxoids. One month later, 19 of the 24 children were given Haemophilus influenzae B oligosaccharide-cross-reacting material conjugate vaccine. Following immunization, all patients had protective antibody titers against tetanus, 92% had protective antidiphtheria titers, and 84% had protective titers against H influenzae. Preimmunization titers, postimmunization titers, and response to immunization varied according to the intensity of therapy. There was no correlation with duration of therapy or quantitative hematologic values in the peripheral blood. These observations support the recommendation that children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia should be immunized against H influenzae B. 
Anomalous insertion of papillary muscle directly into anterior mitral leaflet in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Significance in producing left ventricular outflow obstruction. BACKGROUND. Obstruction to left ventricular outflow in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is usually due to systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. Occurrence of structural mitral valve abnormalities in HCM and their significance in producing outflow obstruction (even in the absence of typical systolic anterior motion) has not been fully appreciated. METHODS AND RESULTS. Analysis of 78 mitral valves excised from patients with obstructive HCM showed that 10 (13%) had anomalous insertion of one or both left ventricular papillary muscles directly into the anterior mitral leaflet. This malformation was identified by echocardiography, which demonstrated direct continuity between the hypertrophied papillary muscle and mitral leaflet, resulting in a long rigid area of midcavity narrowing that appeared to be solely or largely responsible for outflow obstruction. Basal subaortic pressure gradients were large (70-150 mm Hg). Mitral valve replacement reduced the outflow gradient substantially to 0-15 mm Hg in four patients with postoperative cardiac catheterization. However, two other patients who underwent septal myotomy/myectomy had persistent symptoms and incomplete relief of obstruction (gradients 60 and 70 mm Hg) because of continued midcavity apposition of papillary muscle and ventricular septum. CONCLUSIONS. Anomalous papillary muscle insertion into anterior mitral leaflet represents a mechanism of obstruction to left ventricular outflow in patients with HCM and differs considerably from typical dynamic obstruction caused by mitral valve systolic anterior motion that occurs in many other patients with HCM. Recognition of this malformation emphasizes the diverse morphological expression of HCM and also has important clinical implications for patients requiring operation because the gradient is likely to persist even after adequate myotomy/myectomy; consequently, mitral valve replacement would appear to be the operation of choice in most such patients. 
Coronary stenting with a new, radiopaque, balloon-expandable endoprosthesis in pigs. BACKGROUND. Intracoronary stents may be effective when used as "bail-out" devices for acute complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Furthermore, preliminary reports have demonstrated some promising results with stents with regard to the reduction of restenosis. Several stent devices are available for preclinical and clinical evaluation. The use of these stainless-steel stents has been limited by poor visibility during fluoroscopy and thrombogenicity during the first days to weeks after implantation. We therefore investigated the immediate and short-term effects on arterial patency of a new, radiopaque, balloon-expandable coil stent in normal coronary arteries of pigs. METHODS AND RESULTS. In 10 animals, a stent was placed in two of the three epicardial coronary arteries. During the implantation procedure, the animals received heparin; after the procedure, no antithrombotic drugs were administered. After 1 week (five animals and 10 stents) or 4 weeks (five animals and 10 stents), repeat angiography was performed, followed by pressure-fixation of the coronary arteries for light and electron microscopic examination. Angiographic analysis revealed that all stented coronary segments were patent and without signs of intraluminal defects. Scanning electron microscopy showed complete endothelial covering of all stents within 7 days. Light microscopy showed a reduced tunica media locally under the stent wires, which resulted from exerted pressure. The neointima on top of the stent wires measured 56 microns (range, 42-88 microns) after 1 week and 139 microns (range, 84-250 microns) after 4 weeks. CONCLUSIONS. Results from this study show that this radiopaque endoprosthesis can be safely placed in normal coronary arteries of pigs. After 4 weeks, all stents were patent and there was no need for additional antithrombotic treatment, whereas neointimal proliferation was limited. 
Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver: assessment with contrast-enhanced TurboFLASH MR imaging. Twenty-two patients with 25 cases of focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) proved with pathologic study were imaged with a TurboFLASH (fast low angle shot) sequence combined with bolus administration of gadolinium tetraazacyclododecanetetraacetic acid (DOTA), spin-echo (SE) T2-weighted sequences, and postcontrast T1-weighted sequences. FNH-liver signal-difference-to-noise ratios were quantified; the features of the central scar were qualitatively analyzed. On SE T2-weighted images, all FNHs were hyperintense; in two cases the central scar exhibited a high signal intensity associated with hypointense areas corresponding to fibrous tissue within the branches of the scar. Unenhanced TurboFLASH images always demonstrated the FNHs as hypointense and always depicted the central scar as a hypointense area within the lesion. After bolus injection, arterial enhancement of FNH was clearly seen, and in 10 of 25 lesions, enhancement within the scar was seen 40-80 seconds after injection. Both unenhanced and enhanced TurboFLASH sequences produced the best signal-difference-to-noise ratios in comparison with T2-weighted images. 
Solitary extradural cavernous hemangiomas in the spinal canal. Report of five cases. Five cases of solitary extrathecal cavernous hemangioma in the spinal canal are reported. In one case, two coexistent massive cerebral venous medullary malformations were found. The symptomatology and prognosis of extrathecal spinal cavernous hemangiomas are discussed, as is the significance of various diagnostic measures. The patient material further permitted a rough calculation of the incidence of symptomatic extrathecal cavernous hemangiomas in the spinal canal. 
Adverse psychologic consequences of positive cytologic cervical screening. Cervical cancer is still widely prevalent in the female population. This study explores the relationship of cervical cancer screening, positive versus negative Papanicolaou's test results, and psychologic status among lower-income minority women. All patients were interviewed 3 months after they had received initial test results. One hundred six women with normal Papanicolaou's test results were compared with 118 women who were referred for colposcopic examination for follow-up of positive test results. Women with positive Papanicolaou's-test results showed statistically significant elevations in worries about cancer and impairments in mood, daily activities, sexual interest, and sleep patterns. More fine-grained analyses revealed that the effects of positive results were most pronounced among those women who did not comply with colposcopy (n = 53). These findings suggest that lack of compliance with follow-up may maintain high levels of uncertainty about disease and may interfere with successful psychologic adaptation. Health education targeted to psychologically vulnerable individuals may reduce psychologic distress and enhance compliance. 
Hypothyroidism resulting from generic levothyroxine failure. In today's cost-conscious health care system, generic preparations should be prescribed whenever possible provided that safety and efficacy are not compromised. Several reports, however, suggest that generic levothyroxine may not always be interchangeable with the proprietary preparations. Such interchangeability is critical because patients are likely to receive different brands of levothyroxine during the life of their treatment. We report a case of severe hypothyroidism that developed in a patient who had been well controlled before receiving a generic levothyroxine preparation. Analysis of the patient's tablet by high-pressure liquid chromatography showed that the levothyroxine content was approximately 30 percent less than its labeled content and outside current Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirements. It is likely that poor tablet bioavailability was a contributory factor. Euthyroidism was achieved with the same dose of a more potent and possibly more bioavailable brand-name product. Until levothyroxine products become more uniform and the FDA confers therapeutic equivalence, product substitution with expense as the principal consideration should be avoided. 
Risk factors for pancreatic cellular injury after cardiopulmonary bypass BACKGROUND. Pancreatitis is a known complication of cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Although ischemia is believed to be a factor, the cause of pancreatitis after cardiopulmonary bypass remains unknown. METHODS. We prospectively studied 300 consecutive patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Serum amylase, pancreatic isoamylase, and serum lipase were measured on postoperative days 1,2,3,7, and 10. Pancreatic cellular injury was defined as the presence of hyperamylasemia (greater than 123 U per liter) with an increase in either the serum level of lipase (greater than 24 U per liter) or the peak level of pancreatic isoamylase. Trypsinogen-activation peptides, which indicate intrapancreatic enzyme activation, were measured in the urine of the last 101 patients studied. RESULTS. Evidence of pancreatic cellular injury was detected in 80 patients (27 percent), of whom 23 had associated abdominal signs or symptoms and 3 had severe pancreatitis (2 with pancreatic abscess and 1 with necrotizing hemorrhagic pancreatitis). Two of 19 postoperative deaths were secondary to pancreatitis. In multivariate analyses, the development of pancreatic cellular injury was significantly associated with preoperative renal insufficiency, valve surgery, postoperative hypotension, and perioperative administration of calcium chloride. The administration of more than 800 mg of calcium chloride per square meter of body-surface area was an independent predictor of pancreatic cellular injury, and the increase in risk was dose-related. No differences were found in the level of trypsinogen-activation peptides between patients who had pancreatic cellular injury and those who did not. CONCLUSIONS. Pancreatic cellular injury, as indicated by hyperamylasemia of pancreatic origin, is common after cardiac surgery. The administration of large doses of calcium chloride is an independent predictor of pancreatic cellular injury and may be a cause of it. 
The golden hours of the myocardial infarction: nonthrombolytic interventions. Emergency care of patients with acute myocardial infarction requires active decision making to use agents that may improve morbidity and mortality. Thrombolysis remains the primary tool to accomplish this goal. Other pharmacologic agents, including lidocaine, nitrates, calcium channel blockers, beta-blockers, and aspirin, have been used acutely in myocardial infarction in the hopes of preventing death and salvaging myocardium. The decision to select one or all of these agents requires a knowledge of the clinical evidence of their efficacy and risk-to-benefit ratios. The clinical studies of the use of these agents acutely in the management of myocardial infarction are reviewed. 
Lower limb problems in diabetic patients. What are the causes? What are the remedies? Peripheral neuropathy, infection, and peripheral vascular disease can produce serious problems in diabetic patients, particularly in the lower limbs. Ulceration of the foot may progress to gangrene and ultimately necessitate amputation. Distal symmetric polyneuropathy causes sensory loss. Such loss in patients with peripheral vascular disease creates a high risk for foot ulcers, which are vulnerable to infection. Treatment includes relief of neuropathic pain and antibiotic therapy for infection. Pentoxifylline (Trental) improves microvascular flow and appears to be effective against peripheral vascular disease. Aldose reductase inhibitors are being investigated as therapy for diabetic neuropathy. Prevention is the mainstay of management in these patients. Patient education is essential to help maintain health and prevent the potential adverse effects of diabetes. 
Assessment of 21-[18F]fluoro-16 alpha-ethyl-19-norprogesterone as a positron-emitting radiopharmaceutical for the detection of progestin receptors in human breast carcinomas. We have used 21-[18F]fluoro-16 alpha-ethyl-19-norprogesterone (FENP) for imaging progestin receptors by PET in patients with primary carcinoma of the breast. In vitro binding and in vivo tissue distribution studies in rats have shown that FENP has high specific activity, high affinity for progestin receptors, and receptor-mediated uptake in target tissues. Eight patients with primary breast carcinoma were studied. Breast carcinoma was identified correctly in 50% of the patients with progestin-receptor-positive tumors; however, the FENP uptake was not correlated with progestin-receptor levels. We noted a low target-to-background ratio in humans, with high relative activity in the spine, blood pool, and normal breast tissue. Our findings indicate that FENP is not a suitable agent for imaging progestin receptors in humans. 
Comparison of intravenous urokinase plus heparin versus heparin alone in acute myocardial infarction. Urochinasi per via Sistemica nell'Infarto Miocardico (USIM) Collaborative Group. In a randomized trial of the effects on in-hospital mortality of intravenous urokinase plus heparin versus heparin alone, 2,531 patients with acute myocardial infarction in 89 coronary care units were enrolled for greater than 30 months. Patients admitted within 4 hours of the onset of pain were randomized to receive either intravenous urokinase (a bolus dose of 1 million U repeated after 60 minutes) plus heparin (a bolus dose of 10,000 U followed by 1,000 IU/hour for 48 hours) or heparin alone (infused at the same rate). Complete data were obtained in 2,201 patients (1,128 taking urokinase and 1,073 taking heparin). At 16 days, overall hospital mortality was 8% in the urokinase and 8.3% in the heparin group (p = not significant). Among patients with anterior infarction, mortality was 10.3% in the urokinase and 13.9% in the heparin group (p = 0.09; relative risk = 0.73). The incidence of major bleeding (urokinase 0.44%, heparin 0.37%) as well as the overall incidence of stroke (urokinase 0.35%, heparin 0.20%) was similar in the 2 groups. The rates of major in-hospital cardiac complications (reinfarction, postinfarction angina) were also similar. 
A case report of malignant pleural mesothelioma with long-term disease control after chemotherapy. Long duration of responses to chemotherapy in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is rare. The authors report a patient with inoperable MPM who achieved complete remission with combination chemotherapy of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin. 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin C (FM) induced another remission after recurrence of the tumor. Retreatment with FM after chemotherapy had been stopped for 20 months yielded another continuing response. The overall tumor-control time is more than 4 years. Literature reviews and the authors' results suggest that MPM may be a chemosensitive tumor in some patients. Additional evaluations of CAP, FM, and methotrexate combination regimens in this disease should be considered. 
Tonic pain perception in the mouse: differential modulation by three receptor-selective opioid agonists. The proposition that tonic nociception models are more analogous to clinical pain than traditional acute models prompted our previous development of a modified mouse paw formalin test. To discern possible modulatory roles and site(s) of action of endogenous opioid systems, the receptor-preferring agonists sufentanil (mu), U-50,488H (kappa) and [D-Pen2,5]enkephalin (DPDPE, delta) were evaluated for antinociceptive activity in the formalin paradigm by systemic (except DPDPE), spinal and supraspinal routes. All observations were done under blind conditions. Doses causing overt behaviors that indicated a breach of receptor specificity (during the observation period) were rejected. Higher doses of centrally administered DPDPE (greater than 0.3 micrograms/mouse, intrathecal; greater than 3 micrograms/mouse, intracerebroventricular) induced a behavioral syndrome traditionally associated with mu agonism, and thus were not considered for this study. A50 values from behaviorally acceptable dose ranges for mean percent analgesia (reduction of paw licking compared to controls) were: trans-(+/- )-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[U-50,488H 2-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]-benzeneacetamide methanesulfonate,U-50,488H--3200 nmol/kg, subcutaneous, 1100 nmol/kg, intrathecal and 314 nmol/kg, intracerebroventricular; sufentanil--11.1 nmol/kg, subcutaneous, 8.6 nmol/kg, intrathecal; and DPDPE--inactive. On the basis of our dose-response data, we suggest that, in mice, kappa and mu, but not delta, opioid receptors modulate tonic pain perception at both spinal and supraspinal loci. The results also support inclusion of the modified formalin test in preclinical evaluations of potential kappa agonists. 
Myocardial infarct size reduction by the synergistic effect of hyperbaric oxygen and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. Fasting mongrel dogs underwent hyperbaric oxygen treatment (HBOT), recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) treatment, and simultaneous HBOT and rt-PA treatment following prior experimental left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion for 2 hours. Thrombosis in and around a copper coil was recorded angiographically at regular intervals, and immediately prior to treatment conclusion. Controls (n = 10) were untreated. Group two animals (n = 10) were treated additionally with 90 minutes of HBOT at 2 atm absolute. Group three animals (n = 8) were treated additionally with 50 mg rt-PA over 90 minutes. Group four animals (n = 10) were treated additionally with simultaneous HBOT and rt-PA over 90 minutes. Myocardial injury was determined by a combination of triphenyltetrazolium chloride histochemical staining and by formazan dye extraction. Damage was measured as a percent of left ventricular cross-sectional area studied. HBOT alone restored 35.9% of oxidative enzyme activity (p greater than 0.001). Treatment with rt-PA alone restored 48.9% of enzyme activity (p greater than 0.001). The combination of HBOT and simultaneous rt-PA resulted in 96.9% restoration of oxidative enzyme activity versus the control group (p greater than 0.001). 
Sequence variations in the 5' flanking and IVS-II regions of the G gamma- and A gamma-globin genes of beta S chromosomes with five different haplotypes. We have amplified and sequenced the 5' flanking and the second intervening sequence (IVS-II) regions of both the G gamma- and A gamma-globin genes of the beta S chromosomes from sickle cell anemia (SS) patients with homozygosities for five different haplotypes. The sequencing data, compared with previously published sequences for the normal chromosomes A and B, show many similarities to chromosome B for haplotypes 19, 20, and 17, while haplotypes 3 and 31 are remarkably similar to chromosome A and also similar to each other. Several unique mutations were found in the 5' flanking regions (G gamma and A gamma) of haplotypes 19 and 20 and in the IVS-II segments of the same genes of haplotypes 19, 20, and 17; the IVS-II of haplotypes 3 and 31 were identical to those of chromosome A. Dot-blot analyses of amplified DNA from additional SS patients with specific probes have confirmed that these mutations are unique for each haplotype. The two general patterns that have been observed among the five haplotypes have most probably arisen by gene conversion events between the A and B type chromosomes in the African population. These patterns correlate with high and low fetal hemoglobin expression, and it is speculated that these and other yet unknown gene conversions may contribute to the variations in hemoglobin F and G gamma levels observed among SS patients. In vitro expression experiments involving the approximately 1.3-kb 5' flanking regions of the G gamma- and A gamma-globin genes of the beta S chromosomes with the five different haplotypes failed to detect differences between the levels of expression, suggesting that the sequence variations observed between these segments of DNA are not the primary cause of the differences in hemoglobin F levels among the SS patients. 
Left ventricular regional wall motion assessment by radionuclide ventriculography: a comparison of cine display with Fourier imaging Radionuclide ventriculography and contrast ventriculography were performed in two comparable projections on 50 patients with suspected coronary artery disease. The efficacy of conventional cine display and Fourier image analysis of the radionuclide ventriculogram was compared using contrast ventriculography as the gold standard. Of seven different combinations of Fourier images, the combination of left anterior oblique amplitude and phase and left posterior oblique amplitude and phase provided the highest sensitivity (87%), specificity (83%), accuracy (86%), and kappa coefficient (0.64). To increase statistical power, segment data were collapsed to global data in which a heart was considered normal if all segments were normal and abnormal if one or more segments were abnormal. Fourier images had higher sensitivity (Fourier 87%, cine 47%); lower specificity (Fourier 83%, cine 92%), higher accuracy (Fourier 86%, cine 58%), and higher kappa coefficient (Fourier 0.64, cine 0.25), and these differences were statistically significant (p less than 0.01). 
Variable histotoxicity of histoacryl when used in a subcutaneous site: an experimental study. Histoacryl (butyl-2-cyanoacrylate) is one of the least histotoxic cyanoacrylate derivatives and is used as a tissue adhesive. Clinical applications primarily include skin closure (blepharoplasty incisions, etc.). In a recent study, we demonstrated that Histoacryl elicits minimal histotoxicity when used to glue bone grafts to rabbit-ear cartilage. Acute inflammation was limited to areas where Histoacryl escaped from between the bone graft and ear cartilage to contact well-vascularized soft tissue. In this study, Histoacryl was applied between bone graft and cartilage in one rabbit ear and adjacent to well-vascularized soft tissue with no graft in the opposite ear. Histologic analysis revealed minimal if any inflammation when small amounts of glue was used in the nonvascular region between bone graft and cartilage. However, subcutaneous implantation contacting well-vascularized soft tissue resulted in increased acute inflammation and prolonged foreign-body giant-cell response. Further studies are required to rule out any long-term problems associated with subcutaneous implantation of Histoacryl. 
Stroke and hypertension and its prevention. Systolic and diastolic hypertension in both men and women is a well-established risk factor for the development of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. Antihypertensive treatment decreases the risk, but questions remain as to the precise level of hypertension to be treated, whether the effects of antihypertensive treatment are blunted with increasing age, and the best type of antihypertensive drug or combination of drugs to be used. Further questions remain concerning the incidence of pseudohypertension and the potentially harmful effects of its treatment on the brain, and the possibility that fluctuations in blood pressure may be worse than elevation alone. A pragmatic approach would be to treat hypertension with vigor in the young, with caution in the mature, and with reluctance in the old. 
Management options in fulminant hepatic failure. The diagnosis of FHF carries with it a high mortality rate. Though the early results of OLT for FHF are encouraging, some have called for caution as these results are in a select population and may be similar to the optimistic early reports of now-discredited therapies. However, OLT differs fundamentally from all other interventions and, as such, it is ethically unjustified to withhold potentially life-saving therapy from patients with a predicted mortality in excess of 60%. Therefore, patients with FHF should be transferred at an early stage to an experienced liver unit where the option of liver transplantation can be considered. 
Predictors of relapse into major depressive disorder in a nonclinical population. OBJECTIVE: This study sought to describe, the natural history of major depressive disorder in a large group of nonclinical subjects. In particular, the analysis determined demographic and clinical risk factors for the recurrence of major depressive disorder. METHOD: Relatives, comparison subjects (matched to relatives for age and sex), and spouses of affectively ill probands underwent structured clinical assessments before and after a 6-year interval. RESULTS: Of 396 individuals who had had only major depressive disorder that ended before the initial evaluation, 33.8% (N = 134) developed a new episode during the 6-year follow-up period. Youth, but not sex, was an important demographic risk factor. The presence of minor depression at the time of initial evaluation and the number of symptoms recalled from the worst previous episode were additional clinical risk factors. At the initial evaluation, 200 other subjects had described a previous history of both major depressive disorder and a nonaffective mental disorder. When compared to the subjects who recalled only a history of major depressive disorder, these subjects were more likely to have been in an episode of chronic intermittent depression at the initial evaluation and to recall a greater number of episodes as well as a greater number of symptoms in the worst episode. A history of a nonaffective mental disorder significantly increased the risk of relapse into major depressive disorder. CONCLUSIONS: These findings agree well with a recent review of clinically based follow-up studies. Thus, youth and a history of nonaffective illness are important risk factors for the recurrence of major affective disorder in a broad variety of settings. 
Postoperative epidural morphine is safe on surgical wards. The use of epidural morphine for postoperative analgesia outside of intensive care units remains controversial. In this report our anesthesiology-based acute pain service documents experience with 1,106 consecutive postoperative patients treated with epidural morphine on regular surgical wards. This experience involved 4,343 total patient days of care and 11,089 individual epidural morphine injections. On a 0-10 verbal analog scale, patient-reported median pain scores at rest and with coughing or ambulation were 1 (inter-quartile range 3) and 4 (interquartile range 4), respectively. The incidence of side effects requiring medication were as follows: pruritus 24%, nausea 29%, and respiratory depression 0.2%. There were no deaths, neurologic injuries, or infections associated with the technique. Migration of epidural catheters into the subarachnoid space and into epidural veins each occurred twice. Overall, 1,051 of the 1,106 patients (95%) experienced none of the following problems: catheter obstruction, premature dislodgement, painful injections, catheter migration, infection, or respiratory depression. We conclude that postoperative pain can be safely and effectively treated with epidural morphine on surgical wards. 
Recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor after autologous bone marrow transplantation for lymphoid cancer. BACKGROUND. The period of neutropenia after autologous bone marrow transplantation results in substantial morbidity and mortality. The results of previous phase I-II clinical trials suggest that recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) may accelerate neutrophil recovery and thereby reduce complications in patients after autologous bone marrow transplantation. METHODS. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial at three institutions. The study design and treatment schedules were identical, and the results were pooled for analysis. One hundred twenty-eight patients were enrolled. Sixty-five patients received rhGM-CSF in a two-hour intravenous infusion daily for 21 days, starting within four hours of the marrow infusion, and 63 patients received placebo. RESULTS. No toxic effects specifically ascribed to rhGM-CSF were observed. The patients given rhGM-CSF had a recovery of the neutrophil count to 500 x 10(6) per liter 7 days earlier than the patients who received placebo (19 vs. 26 days, P less than 0.001), had fewer infections, required 3 fewer days of antibiotic administration (24 vs. 27 days, P = 0.009), and required 6 fewer days of initial hospitalization (median, 27 vs. 33 days; P = 0.01). There was no difference in the survival rate at day 100. CONCLUSIONS. In patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation for lymphoid neoplasia, rhGM-CSF significantly lessens morbidity. Further studies will be required to establish its optimal dosage and schedule of administration. 
Frequency of deep venous thrombosis in asymptomatic patients with coronary artery bypass grafts. The frequency of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery has not been established. Therefore to estimate the frequency of clinically silent DVT, we performed ultrasound examinations of the leg veins in 29 asymptomatic CABG patients before hospital discharge. We used high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography with color Doppler imaging. Fourteen (48.3%, 95% confidence interval 30.1 to 66.4%) had 20 documented leg vein thromboses, and all but one patient had DVT limited to the calf veins. Of the 20 thrombi 10 (50.0%) were present in the leg ipsilateral and 10 (50.0%) in the leg contralateral to the saphenous vein harvest site. None of the DVTs were suspected clinically. DVT was not associated with any local sign attributed to saphenous vein harvest such as pitting edema, incisional drainage, or local tenderness or with any putative risk factor for DVT such as cigarette use, distant history of malignancy, or varicose veins. Follow-up of these patients 5 to 11 months after CABG surgery showed no clinical evidence of DVT or pulmonary embolism. Our findings indicate that asymptomatic DVT of the calf occurs with surprisingly high frequency, 44.8% after CABG surgery. Future studies in patients undergoing CABG surgery should address the natural history of asymptomatic DVT, determine its clinical importance, and develop optimal strategies for prophylaxis and treatment. 
Expansion of immature thymic precursor cells in peripheral blood after acute marrow suppression. Leukemoid reactions occur in response to a number of infectious agents and sometimes may be associated with bone marrow suppression. After acute suppression of the bone marrow, a resurgent hyperplasia occurs that may appear as synchronous maturation of a single cell type. The authors describe the case of a 13-year-old child in whom a remarkable lymphocytosis developed during a period of pancytopenia associated with a febrile syndrome resembling Ehrlichiosis. Most of these lymphoid cells were morphologically similar to large granular lymphocytes (LGLs), but many appeared to be less mature. Immunophenotypic studies demonstrated most of these lymphoid cells to be immature T cells at an "intermediate" or "transitional" stage of thymocyte differentiation characterized by the CD1-CD3+CD4-CD8- phenotype, as well as positivity for nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. In T-cell ontogeny, this stage represents a transition between thymic precursors and mature thymocytes. Their presence in the peripheral blood of this child is thought to represent a lymphocytic leukemoid response to his infection. Cases such as this may be confused with malignancy. 
Preventing upper gastrointestinal bleeding in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Severe upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding is a serious adverse effect of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the elderly are at increased risk of developing this complication. Bleeding episodes can be prevented. Replacing NSAIDs with acetaminophen may be appropriate when a simple analgesic is needed that eliminates the risk of GI bleeding. Using the lowest effective NSAID dose may decrease the incidence and severity of NSAID gastropathy. Histamine H2-receptor antagonists, sucralfate, and misoprostol have been studied for the prevention of NSAID gastropathy, but only misoprostol prevents mucosal injury in both the stomach and duodenum. Patients who have a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastric bleeding from NSAIDs are candidates for prophylactic measures. Although other patients are at risk, no one knows who should receive prophylactic therapy for NSAID gastropathy. Future studies should attempt to define patient populations that warrant prophylactic therapy. 
An analysis of ten-year trends in infections in adults on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Infectious complications are the Achilles heel of CAPD. To determine trends in these events, we analyzed the CAPD related infections of 303 adults on CAPD at a single university center between 1979 and 1989. During this decade the percentage of insulin-dependent diabetics increased from 14% to 39% (p less than 0.005). Peritonitis rates fell from 2.4 episodes/y in 1979 to 0.8 episodes/y in 1989. The proportion of patients with multiple episodes of peritonitis decreased (40% of the patients in 1979-1982 vs 15% in 1983-1989, p = 0.0001) while the proportion of patients with no episodes of peritonitis increased during the same periods (29% vs 49%, p = 0.005). The proportion of peritonitis episodes due to S. aureus rose over the 10-year period (p = 0.005), while those due to S. epidermidis decreased (p less than 0.10). The overall incidence of S. aureus peritonitis remained unchanged. Catheter infection rates initially increased and then fell during the decade; S. aureus remained the predominant cause. The proportion of peritonitis episodes associated with catheter infection rose (13% in 1982 vs 24% in 1989, p = 0.025), and in 1989, 80% of these episodes were caused by S. aureus. Catheter loss was also primarily due to S. aureus infections in 1989 (80%). Infections due to P. aeruginosa were a persistent problem. The proportion of patients transferring to hemodialysis each year paralleled catheter loss rates, which in turn appeared to be more related to catheter infection rates than to peritonitis rates. We conclude that control of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa will be the key to future reductions in the infectious complications of CAPD patients. 
The silence: the asbestos industry and early occupational cancer research--a case study. To gain insight into corporate activities regarding the identification of occupational carcinogens earlier in this century, the actions of one industry, the asbestos industry, were reviewed. This industry, in concert with many of its insurers, systematically developed and then suppressed information on the carcinogenicity of asbestos. The development of warnings for those exposed to the asbestos was delayed. As a result, millions of workers were exposed to the carcinogen and hundreds of thousands died. These events are placed into the context of similar activities in other industries during this time. 
Coronary artery bypass grafting in the octogenarian. We have performed coronary bypass grafting in 25 patients 80 years of age or more. The patients' preoperative conditions were characterized by recent myocardial infarction (16/25, or 64%), obesity (15/25, or 60%), hypertension (14/25, or 56%), and left ventricular dysfunction (21/25, or 84%). There were no deaths in the hospital or within 30 days of operation (0/25, or 0%). Postoperative complications occurred in five cases (20%). Complications were leg incision infection (2/25, or 8%), urinary tract infection (1/25, or 4%), stroke (1/25, or 4%), and transient neurologic deficit (1/25, or 4%). There were no instances of reoperation for bleeding, perioperative myocardial infarction, renal failure, pulmonary failure, intraaortic balloon pump use, or sternotomy infection in these patients. Eleven patients (44%) were hospitalized for fewer than 10 days after operation, and all but two (23/25, or 92%) were discharged within 20 days after operation. All patients were followed up, and survival and New York Heart Association functional class were determined. Cumulative survival rate was 94% at 1 year and 88% at 5 years. The cumulative percent survival rate with class I or II function was 92% at 1 year and 80% at 5 years. No patient had recurrent angina. 
Myocardial oedema and ventricular function after cardioplegia with added mannitol. Myocardial oedema may contribute to the impaired myocardial performance which commonly follows open heart surgery with cardioplegia-induced cardiac arrest. The rate of oedema formation during crystalloid cardioplegia and the relation of this to changes in ventricular compliance and ventricular function following reperfusion were studied using an isolated rabbit heart preparation. Myocardial tissue water content increased during cardioplegic arrest and the water content prior to reperfusion demonstrated an inverse correlation with ventricular function after reperfusion. In further studies the effect of adding mannitol to a standard crystalloid cardioplegic solution was investigated. The preparations were divided into two groups: nine were administered a standard cardioplegic solution (Plegisol*) (control group) and a further eight were administered the same solution mixed with mannitol to adjust the osmotic pressure to 360 mOsmol.L-3 (mannitol group). The mannitol group demonstrated less increase in RV water content and superior LV dP/dtmax following reperfusion. It is concluded that mannitol enhances protection of the myocardium during cardioplegic cardiac arrest. 
Sternohyoid muscle biopsy. A diagnostic technique in respiratory failure of neuromuscular origin. Patients with neuromuscular disease may develop respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. We describe a sternohyoid muscle biopsy technique as a diagnostic aid in such patients undergoing tracheostomy for prolonged ventilatory support. The biopsy procedure is quick and without added discomfort or morbidity for the patient. Our preliminary observations in three patients suggest that the sternohyoid muscle biopsy may be a useful diagnostic tool in this selected group of patients. 
Mechanical complications associated with mentor inflatable penile prosthesis. The Mentor inflatable penile prosthesis was developed in an attempt to decrease the mechanical failure rate of the various prostheses' components. We herein report on the reliability of the device in 46 men implanted with the Mentor device from December 1982 to June 1987. Prior to manufacturer device modification in 1985, mechanical failure mainly attributable to input tubing cracks occurred in 10 of 30 implantations. Since device improvement in April 1985, the mechanical failure rate has decreased to 4 percent. The Mentor inflatable penile prosthesis has been a mechanically reliable device since design improvement in 1985. 
Pituitary hormone response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone in secondary amenorrheic women associated with simple weight loss. OBJECTIVE: To investigate endocrine dysfunction in simple weight loss amenorrhea. DESIGN: We studied pituitary hormone responses to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in 10 women with simple weight loss amenorrhea. SETTING: Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital, University of Tokushima at Tokushima, Japan. PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Secondary amenorrheic women associated with simple weight loss who did not have anorexia nervosa. INTERVENTIONS: Intravenous injection of 500 micrograms of synthetic TRH. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Serum levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), thyrotropin, and prolactin were measured before and 15, 30, and 60 minutes after TRH injection. RESULTS: In normally menstruating women on day 7 of the cycle TRH did not affect serum LH and FSH levels. In women with simple weight loss amenorrhea, however, TRH raised serum LH and FSH levels significantly (P less than 0.01, respectively). Prolactin response to TRH was significantly (P less than 0.05) lower in women with simple weight loss amenorrhea than in normally menstruating women. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that TRH causes a significant rise in serum LH and FSH and the impaired prolactin response in women with simple weight loss amenorrhea. 
Risk factors in relation to postoperative complications and mortality after total gastrectomy in aged patients. To clarify the risk factors contributing to postoperative complications in elderly patients undergoing total gastrectomy, 84 patients with primary gastric cancer were evaluated. Twenty-seven patients were older than 65 years of age; they had much more preoperative cardiac (P = 0.00003), respiratory (P = 0.0008), and multiorgan impairment (P = 0.009) than did the control group (age less than 65 yrs). Although overall morbidities (44.4% vs. 19.2%; P = 0.01) and overall septic complication rates (33.3% vs. 12.2%; P = 0.02) were higher in aged patients, no significant differences between the two groups were found in the incidence of major surgical complications (18.5% in aged patients vs. 10.5% in control groups; P = NS), serious septic (sepsis score greater than 10) complications (18.5% vs. 7.0%; P = NS) and hospital mortalities (11.1% vs. 3.5%; P = NS). In older patients the occurrence of multiorgan impairment and malnutrition was significantly related to postoperative complication rates. These results suggest that the degree of organ impairment rather than age is predictive of postoperative difficulty and should be used in assessing preoperative risk. 
Interferon gamma response region in the promoter of the human DPA gene. The interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) response region of the human class II major histocompatibility complex gene, DPA, has been localized to a 52-base-pair (bp) DNA fragment in the proximal promotor at -107 to -55 bp after transfection into HeLa cells of a series of 5', 3', and gap deletion mutants linked to a reporter gene, human growth hormone, as well as of synthetic oligonucleotides fused to the heterologous promoter thymidine kinase. The 52-mer sequence contains the X and Y box elements conserved in all class II genes; their presence is indispensable for IFN-gamma inducibility. Furthermore, an additional 5 bp immediately 5' of the X box of the DPA gene are necessary and sufficient for IFN-gamma induction. This region may contain an IFN-gamma response element. A closely related sequence has also been found in the vicinity of the critical deletion sites of three other well-studied class II gene promoters, all of which require a much longer sequence 5' of the X box. A fourth element, the W element, located about 15 bp 5' of the X box in all class II genes, is clearly of little importance in IFN-gamma inducibility of the DPA gene. 
Microvascular permeability increases early in the course of acid-induced esophageal injury. To test the hypothesis that microvascular injury is involved in the pathophysiology of acid-induced esophagitis, the effect of acid perfusion on intraluminal plasma protein loss was studied in relation to histological changes. Four groups of opossums (n = 6 in each) were perfused with either normal saline control) or 10, 20, or 100 mmol/L isoosmolar hydrochloric acid at 2 mL/min for 90 minutes using a midesophageal catheter. The distal esophagus was cannulated via a gastrostomy, and the effluent was collected and measured for intraluminal loss of IV injected 125I-bovine serum albumin. Plasma protein loss in the control group was constant with a total loss of 3.40 +/- 0.69 mg/g dry wt. Perfusion of 10, 20, and 100 mmol/L hydrochloric acid increased total protein loss to 8.06 +/- 2.62, 13.94 +/- 2.72, and 27.34 +/- 4.34 mg/g dry wt, respectively. The protein loss was not associated with intraluminal blood loss, as measured by previously injected 51Cr-labeled autologous red blood cells. Histological changes, scored by a blinded observer, were significant only between control animals and those perfused with 100 mmol/L hydrochloric acid. Separate studies using the vascular tracer monastral blue B demonstrated an increase in labeling of lamina propria blood vessels that varied directly with the concentration of acid perfusate, thereby providing direct morphological evidence of microvascular injury. These studies suggest that increased microvascular permeability occurs early in the course of acid-induced esophageal injury. 
Patterns of gene expression that characterize the colonic mucosa in patients at genetic risk for colonic cancer. We have used a computer-driven scanning and image-processing system to identify a panel of 30 cDNA clones whose pattern of expression in individual biopsy specimens distinguishes the flat, normal-appearing colonic mucosa of patients in two genetic groups at high risk for development of colorectal cancer from that of normal colonic mucosa in low-risk individuals. The two high-risk groups, familial adenomatous polyposis and hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer, are indistinguishable based on the pattern of expression of the 30 selected clones. This suggests that the extensive pleiotropic effects of the inherited loci, which may play an important role in the mechanism of increased risk and early onset of the disease, are similar in these populations. 
Molecular genetic considerations in osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma tumorigenesis is consistent with a model by which tumorigenesis results if both alleles at the retinoblastoma susceptibility locus (RBI) are altered. Additional genetic evidence strongly suggests that another obligate event in osteosarcoma tumorigenesis is the homozygous alteration of another gene, p53. Both the RB1 gene and p53 have been proposed to act as tumor-suppressor genes, suggesting that, in this instance, tumorigenesis is the result of the loss of gene function of these two genes, rather than a gain of function. 
Ovarian cancer screening: potential effect on mortality. Serum tumor markers and ultrasonography are being investigated as possible ovarian cancer screening tests. Data from the United States on ovarian cancer incidence and survival were used to estimate the potential benefit on ovarian cancer mortality from screening tests of various sensitivities. A test with 80% sensitivity could reduce ovarian cancer mortality by 50% if all screening-detected cases were to experience current stage I survival rates; the benefit would be greatest among women aged 45 or older. For each cancer detected there would be at least 50 false-positive screening tests unless test specificity is greater than 98%. If our most optimistic assumptions about screening could be met, then universal periodic screening of women aged 45 to 74 would result in about 5000 additional 5-year survivors of ovarian cancer annually. Uptake of existing screening tests is far less than universal; thus we would expect the impact of any ovarian cancer screening program to fall short of these projections. 
Rare presentation of a parapharyngeal schwannoma. Schwannoma, or neurilemmoma, is included in the differential diagnosis of masses in the parapharyngeal space. Schwannomata do not usually cause acute inflammation, and therefore do not tend to present as emergencies as in this case, in which there was acute respiratory embarrassment. 
Intracellular free magnesium and high energy phosphates in the perfused normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rat heart. A 31P NMR study. We have employed 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to examine the relationship between cytosolic free Mg2+ ([Mg2+]in), intracellular pH, high energy phosphates, and genetic hypertension using the Wistar-Kyoto rat (WKY) as a control and the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) as a model for essential hypertension. The mean systolic blood pressures (measured using the tail cuff method) of control and hypertensive rats (aged 7 to 12 weeks) were 113 +/- 4 mm Hg (mean +/- 2 SE, n = 14) and 162 +/- 5 mm Hg (mean +/- 2 SE, n = 17), respectively. Intracellular free Mg2+ levels were significantly depleted in the isolated Langendorff perfused hypertensive rat hearts (452 +/- 39 mumol/L, mean +/- 2 SE, n = 17) compared to control hearts (756 +/- 52 mumol/L, n = 14); however, intracellular pH did not differ in the SHR hearts (7.02 +/- 0.03, mean +/- 2 SE, n = 7) compared with controls (7.03 +/- 0.03, n = 7). Although we could not demonstrate a statistically significant difference in the levels of P-creatine or ATP, intracellular Pi was two-fold higher (5.71 +/- 2.28 mmol/L v 2.92 +/- 0.66 mmol/L, n = 4) and the phosphorylation potential, [MgATP]/[MgADP][Pi], was correspondingly lower (3.0 X 10(4) +/- 1.6 x 10(4) v 8.3 X 10(4) +/- 1.4 X 10(4) (mol/L)-1, n = 4) in SHR compared to WKY hearts. These data demonstrate free magnesium depletion in heart muscle and indicate an alteration in cardiac bioenergetics in essential hypertension. 
Direct derivation of conditionally immortal cell lines from an H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse. Studies on cell lines have greatly improved our understanding of many important biological questions. Generation of cell lines is facilitated by the introduction of immortalizing oncogenes into cell types of interest. One gene known to immortalize many different cell types in vitro encodes the simian virus 40 (SV40) large tumor (T) antigen (TAg). To circumvent the need for gene insertion in vitro to generate cell lines, we created transgenic mice harboring the SV40 TAg gene. Since previous studies have shown that TAg expression in transgenic mice is associated with tumorigenesis and aberrant development, we utilized a thermolabile TAg [from a SV40 strain, tsA58, temperature sensitive (ts) for transformation] to reduce the levels of functional TAg present in vivo. To direct expression to a broad range of tissues, we used the mouse major histocompatibility complex H-2Kb promoter, which is both widely active and can be further induced by interferons. tsA58 TAg mRNA was expressed in tissues of all animals harboring the hybrid construct. Development of all tissues was macroscopically normal except for thymus, which consistently showed hyperplasia. Fibroblast and cytokeratin+ thymic epithelial cultures from these mice were readily established without undergoing crisis and were conditionally immortal in their growth; the degree of conditionality was correlated with the levels of tsA58 TAg detected. One strain of H-2Kb-tsA58 mice has been bred through several generations to homozygosity and transmits a functional copy of the transgene. 
Concomitant medical disease and headache. The treatment of headache disorders in patients with concomitant medical illness constitutes one of the more challenging areas of headache therapy. As new agents are added to our pharmacologic armamentarium, it will become easier to tailor therapy to our patients. The physician who treats the headache patient with concomitant medical illness must be particularly aware of drug side effects and pharmacology in order to prevent a worsening of underlying medical conditions or an exacerbation of headaches. 
Utilizing lung sounds analysis for the evaluation of acute asthma in small children. One of the most difficult aspects of management of acute asthma in the small child is the clinician's inability to quantitate the response or lack of response to bronchodilator agents because of the inability of a child this age to perform objective lung measurements in the acute state. The present study was designed to evaluate bronchodilator responsiveness in children between 2 and 6 years of age with wheezing by means of a computerized lung sound analysis, computer digitized airway phonopneumonography. Children between ages 2 and 6 who were experiencing acute exacerbations of asthma were included in this study population. The 43 children were evaluated by physical examination, pulmonary function testing, if possible, by use of (spirometry or peak flow meter) and transmission of lung sounds to a computer using an electronic stethoscope to obtain a phonopneumograph with sound intensity level determinations during tidal breathing. A control group of 20 known asthmatic patients between the ages of 8 and 52 years who also presented to the office with acute asthma were evaluated similarly. In each of these individuals, a physical examination was followed by complete spirometry as well as computer digitized airway phonopneumonography recordings. Following initial measurements, all patients were treated with nebulized albuterol (0.25 mL in 2 mL of saline). Five minutes after completion of the nebulization all patients were reexamined and repeat pulmonary function tests were performed followed by CDAP recordings. In the study group of children, the mean pretreatment sound intensity level was 1,694 (range 557 to 4,950 SD +/- 745). 
Use of femoral venous catheters in critically ill adults: prospective study. OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of clinically important complications of femoral venous catheters. DESIGN: Prospective survey of major and minor complications. SETTING: A mixed medical/surgical ICU in a university hospital. PATIENTS: One hundred twenty-three patients admitted to the ICU who underwent femoral venous catheterization over a 2-yr period. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were 150 catheters inserted in 123 patients for a mean duration of 6.4 days. There were no major complications including catheter-related sepsis. Minor complications consisted of arterial puncture (9.3%), local bleeding (10%), and local inflammation (4.7%). Critical care fellows had a significantly lower rate (6%) of insertion complications than interns or medical students (16%). We did not specifically look at the frequency of deep venous thrombosis. CONCLUSIONS: Femoral venous catheterization offers an alternative site of insertion to the subclavian and jugular veins for central venous access in the critically ill. The occurrence rate of clinically important complications is acceptably low. 
Prevalences of endoscopic and histological findings in subjects with and without dyspepsia OBJECTIVE--To examine the association between dyspeptic symptoms and endoscopic and histological diagnoses. DESIGN--Cross sectional study of people with dyspepsia and controls matched for age and sex identified by questionnaire survey of all inhabitants aged 20 to 69. Endoscopy and histological examination was performed with the examiner blind to whether or not the patient had dyspepsia. SETTING--Population based survey in Sorreisa, Norway. SUBJECTS--All people with dyspepsia and age and sex matched people without dyspepsia were offered endoscopy. A total of 309 people with dyspepsia and 310 without dyspepsia underwent endoscopy, giving 273 matched pairs. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Prevalences of endoscopic and histological diagnoses made according to internationally accepted standards. RESULTS--In all, 1802 of 2027 (88.9%) people returned the questionnaire. Of the 163 subjects who refused endoscopy, 114 were controls. Of five endoscopic and four histological diagnoses only peptic ulcer disease, endoscopic duodenitis, and active chronic gastritis were diagnosed significantly more often in people with dyspepsia. In all, 30% to 50% of the diagnoses of mucosal inflammation and peptic ulcer disease were made among subjects without dyspepsia, and only 10% of both those with and those without dyspepsia had normal endoscopic findings. CONCLUSIONS--The diagnostic findings, with possible exceptions of peptic ulcer disease and endoscopic duodenitis, showed no association of clinical value with dyspeptic symptoms. The small number of "normal" endoscopic findings in both those with and those without dyspepsia challenge well accepted endoscopic and histological diagnostic criteria with relation to the upper gastrointestinal tract. 
Outpatient liver biopsy: one man's experience. As an academically based gastroenterologist, I performed 94 outpatient liver biopsies over a 42-month period, using the standard suction technique. Differential blood count and vital signs were monitored, with no statistically significant postbiopsy changes noted in the group at large. One patient required admission to the hospital for bleeding, and six patients required intramuscular analgesics for pain at the biopsy site. Four patients had bradycardia, and one of them required atropine for bradycardia and hypotension. Outpatient liver biopsy is a safe procedure with low morbidity and complication rate. It would appear that prolonged monitoring is not necessary. 
Vagally mediated acid hypersecretion and lesion formation in anesthetized rat under hypothermic conditions. The pathophysiological changes associated with hypothermia were investigated in the rat stomach under anesthetized conditions. The animal was placed in a styrene foam box and the core body temperature was kept between 24 and 36 degrees C using a heat lamp and refrigerant pack. Lowering of body temperature (less than 30 degrees C) produced acid hypersecretion and induced hemorrhagic lesions in the gastric mucosa; these responses reached the maximum at 28 degrees C, and a significant relationship was found between acid output and lesion score. Hypothermia (28 degrees C) also caused a marked increase of gastric contractile activity and mucosal blood flow (MBF), but the ratio of acid output to MBF became greater when compared to that obtained under normothermic conditions. These changes induced by hypothermia (28 degrees C) were completely blocked by vagotomy and were significantly inhibited by atropine, hexamethonium, clonidine, or TRH antiserum. However, lowering body temperature did not significantly affect acid secretory, motility, and ulcerogenic responses induced by carbachol in the vagotomized rat, excluding local mechanisms (suppression of the inhibitory nerves) in the hypothermia-induced changes. We conclude that hypothermia alone stimulates vagally dependent acid secretion and motility, resulting in damage in the gastric mucosa. These changes may be centrally mediated by TRH, which is released in association with the thermogenic response to hypothermia. 
Nonneoplastic enhancing lesions mimicking intracanalicular acoustic neuroma on gadolinium-enhanced MR images. The authors describe five patients with nonneoplastic lesions of the facial and/or vestibulocochlear nerves that demonstrated focal enhancement within the internal auditory canal on magnetic resonance (MR) images. MR and surgical findings for four patients with unilateral sensorineural hearing loss and one with Ramsay Hunt syndrome were reviewed. Three patients with hearing loss underwent surgical exploration and decompression of the internal auditory canal. The MR findings in all four patients with hearing loss were similar: Focal enhancement of the internal auditory canal was depicted on postcontrast T1-weighted images. Nonneoplastic lesions of the seventh and eighth cranial nerves may show focal enhancement on MR images, which mimics the appearance of a small intracanalicular neuroma. This potential for misdiagnosis may have important therapeutic implications. 
Supratentorial dermoid cysts. Supratentorial dermoid cysts are rare lesions. In eight cases presented here, the lack of recurrence after subtotal removal of the capsule and the good long-term prognosis are emphasized. This finding is in agreement with the literature. The frequent relationship of these lesions with the cavernous sinus suggests a vascular genesis in the development of intracranial dermoid cysts. 
Plasma concentration of atrial natriuretic peptide in spontaneous atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardias of childhood. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide was measured in 13 children between the ages of 1 week and 2 years 9 months during atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia and 15 minutes after the restoration of sinus rhythm. There was a significant decline in atrial natriuretic peptide during sinus rhythm. Plasma concentrations of the peptide were significantly higher during tachycardia in seven infants under 1 year than in the six older children. The heart rates and the duration of tachycardia were not significantly different in the two age groups. Cardiac failure was present in five of seven children under 18 weeks of age during tachycardia but in none of the older children. The plasma concentration of atrial natriuretic peptide did not significantly correlate with duration of tachycardia or heart rate. If tachycardia occurs in young infants the low functional reserve capacity of the developing heart leads to cardiac failure more frequently and it is likely that this was the cause of the significantly higher plasma concentration of atrial natriuretic peptide in the younger children. 
Sexual transmission of hepatitis C virus and its relation with hepatitis B virus and HIV OBJECTIVE--To determine the extent of transmission of hepatitis C virus in sexual partners of intravenous drug misusers and to examine the relation between the prevalences of HIV, hepatitis B virus, and hepatitis C virus infections in homosexual men and intravenous drug misusers and their sexual partners. DESIGN--Serum samples collected between 1984 and 1988 were tested for hepatitis B virus markers and antibodies against hepatitis C virus by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and for HIV antibody by enzyme immune analysis and western blotting. SETTING--Large referral university hospital with an external AIDS clinic in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, Spain. SUBJECTS--243 Intravenous drug misusers, 143 of their regular heterosexual partners, and 105 homosexual men. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Prevalences of hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, and HIV infections. RESULTS--In all, 178 of the 243 (73%) intravenous drug misusers, 16 out of 143 (11%) of their partners, and 17 of the 105 (16%) homosexual men had antibodies against hepatitis C virus. The presence of hepatitis C virus infection was unrelated to sex, age, the presence of HIV or hepatitis B virus infections, or the Centers for Disease Control stage of HIV. In sexual partners of intravenous drug misusers there were strong correlations between the presence of hepatitis C virus infection and that of HIV (p = 0.001) and hepatitis B virus (p = 0.013) infections. CONCLUSIONS--Intravenous drug misusers have a high risk of acquiring hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, and HIV infections, but the presence of hepatitis C virus infection seems to be unrelated to the presence of the other two viruses. Homosexual men have a high prevalence of HIV and hepatitis B virus infections with a low prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection, the presence of which is not related to that of the other two infections. Conversely, heterosexual partners of intravenous drug misusers have low prevalences of the three virus infections, but the presence of hepatitis C virus infection correlates significantly with the presence of HIV and hepatitis B infections. The rate of sexual transmission of hepatitis C virus seems to be low, even in partners of people known to be seropositive for this virus. 
Traumatic asphyxia and blunt cardiac injury: case report and selected review. An unusual case is described featuring traumatic asphyxia and blunt cardiac injury. An association between these is possible but not previously described. Coronary artery contusion, malignant arrhythmias, and a normal electrocardiogram were also noted and discussed. The relevant literature was reviewed. 
Transesophageal color Doppler echocardiography of the normal St. Jude Medical mitral valve prosthesis. Transesophageal color flow Doppler findings are reported in 36 patients with a St. Jude Medical mechanical mitral valve prosthesis who had no auscultatory evidence for prosthetic valve dysfunction. Multiple jets consistent with mitral regurgitation originating from the central and lateral portion of the prosthesis were found in all patients. Maximum jet length ranged from 11 to 51 mm (mean 21 +/- 9 mm). Maximum jet area ranged from 0.2 to 4.1 cm3 (mean 1.2 +/- 0.9 cm2). The color M-mode Doppler interrogation showed two distinct components of the regurgitant jet: brief early systolic flow consistent with valve closure followed by holosystolic regurgitant flow consistent with transvalvular leakage. Four patients (11%) had a maximum regurgitant jet length exceeding 30 mm and absence of early systolic closure regurgitant flow by M-mode color imaging, suggesting clinically silent paravalvular leakage. Two pin-sized paravalvular suture line defects were confirmed in one patient at cardiac transplantation. We conclude that transesophageal echocardiography is a highly sensitive method for detection of mitral regurgitation in the St. Jude Medical mitral prosthesis. Clinically silent paravalvular leakage should be suspected if the maximum jet length exceeds 30 mm and color M-mode interrogation fails to demonstrate an early systolic closure regurgitant flow component. 
Total hip replacement for juvenile chronic arthritis. We review the results of 96 primary total hip replacements in 54 patients with juvenile chronic arthritis at five years or longer after surgery. The mean age at operation was 16.7 years (range 11.25 to 26.6); the follow-up period averaged 11.5 years. The clinical results in terms of pain, range of movement, mobility and function are presented. A revision procedure was required in 24 hips (25%) in 18 patients at an average of 9.5 years after the primary operation. A further 17 hips had radiographic signs of loosening. The factors thought to contribute to this relatively high failure rate in patients with juvenile chronic arthritis are discussed. 
History of epilepsy in Chinese traditional medicine. The first known document on epilepsy in China appeared in The Yellow Emperor's Classic of Internal Medicine, Huang Di Nei Ching, written by a group of physicians around 770-221 B.C. The description of epilepsy in this book and in many others later published was confined to generalized convulsive seizures. No documentation of absence or simple partial seizures was provided. The first classification of epilepsy, probably by Cao Yuan Fang in A.D. 610, listed five types of epilepsy: "Yang Dian," "Yin Dian," "Feng (Wind) Dian," "Shih (Wet) Dian," and "Lao (Labor) Dian." Later, other classifications named seizures after the cry of animals whose cry the "epileptic cry" resembled, or after "visceral organs" believed to be responsible for the seizures. The concept of partial versus generalized seizures, however, was not observed in any of these classifications. The treatment of epilepsy, based on principles of "Yin Yang Wu Xing," consisted of herbs, acupuncture, and massage. 
A phase I trial of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta alone and in combination with myelosuppressive doses of 5-fluorouracil in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. We studied escalating doses of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) alone and after a myelosuppressive dose of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. Transient neutropenia, monocytopenia, and lymphocytopenia were observed followed by a 1.3- to 6.0-fold (mean, 3.46-fold) dose-dependent neutrophil leukocytosis (P less than .00001) on the days of IL-1 beta administration. Increases in platelet counts were observed at a median of 14 days (range, 6 to 23) after IL-1 beta administration. Transient hypoglycemia, rebound hyperglycemia, elevations in serum cortisol, and C-reactive protein were observed. Side effects included fever, rigors, and headache in the majority of patients. Hypotension was observed in three of five patients at the highest dose level (0.1 micrograms/kg) and was dose-limiting. Fewer days of neutropenia were noted after 5-FU plus IL-1 beta than after 5-FU alone; however, this difference did not reach statistical significance. These data show that IL-1 beta has stimulatory effects in human hematopoiesis. 
Lewis blood group antigens (a and b) in human breast tissues. Loss of Lewis-b in breast cancer cells and correlation with tumor grade. The Lewis blood group antigens (Lewis-a [Lea] and Lewis-b [Leb]) and their precursors are present on various normal human epithelial cell surfaces. The authors examined 35 benign and malignant human breast lesions using mouse monoclonal antibodies to synthetic Lea and Leb carbohydrate antigens. Normal breast lobular and ductal epithelium and benign breast lesions showed Leb staining but only occasional Lea staining. In invasive ductal carcinomas of breast, of all grades, a loss of Leb antigen staining was found in 80% of the breast cancer cases. This reduced Leb antigen expression increased with the grade of malignancy. Therefore, the loss of Leb blood group antigens on breast cancer cell surfaces may suggest altered fucosylation patterns in malignant cells and reflect the degree of malignancy and/or invasiveness. 
Infarction in focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. A case report. An unusual case of focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver with infarction is presented. The patient, a 16-year-old girl with a three-year history of oral contraceptive use, presented with a two-week history of intermittent abdominal pain. Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver and the role of estrogens in the development of this lesion are discussed. 
Autofluorescence of normal and malignant bronchial tissue. In vivo autofluorescence spectra were obtained in 5 patients with carcinoma in situ, 26 patients with invasive tumors, and 1 patient with severe dysplasia. Significant spectral differences were observed between pre-cancerous, cancerous, and normal bronchial tissues. This difference may afford a method to image and/or detect early lung cancer by using tissue autofluorescence alone. 
Mapping of human microtubule-associated protein 1B in proximity to the spinal muscular atrophy locus at 5q13. A polyclonal antiserum directed against the C-terminal domain of dystrophin was used to isolate a cDNA clone encoding an antigenically cross-reactive protein, microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP-1B). Physical mapping of the human MAP-1B locus places its chromosomal location at 5q13, in proximity to the spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) locus. SMA is a degenerative disorder primarily affecting motor neurons. Genetic linkage analysis of SMA families using a human dinucleotide repeat polymorphism just 3' of the MAP-1B gene has shown tight linkage to SMA mutations. These mapping data together with the postulated role of MAP-1B in neuronal morphogenesis and its localization in anterior horn motor neurons suggest a possible association with SMA. 
Current approaches to chronic pain in older patients. As the population ages, primary care physicians face an increasing number of individuals who suffer from the effects of chronic diseases, including the accompanying chronic pain. This article reviews the common causes of pain in the elderly and suggests a system for assessing its severity. Five different approaches to treating pain in this population are outlined, as are guidelines for managing the potential side effects of treatment. 
Magnetic resonance imaging and late-onset epilepsy. The value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in investigation of patients with late-onset epilepsy has not been studied systematically. We evaluated prospectively the usefulness of MRI in 50 patients with late-onset epilepsy in whom a computed tomography (CT) scan was normal (32), did not allow a definitive diagnosis to be made (12), or showed irrelevant lesions (6). Patients were assessed clinically and had an EEG, and CT and MRI scans were reported by one neuroradiologist blinded to clinical and laboratory data. Of the 32 patients with a normal CT scan, MRI was normal in 20, showed irrelevant ischemic lesions in 8, and showed the cause of seizures in 4 patients. Of the 12 patients with nondiagnostic CT, MRI clarified the diagnosis in 5 and was normal in 2 patients. In 6 patients, both scans showed irrelevant ischemic lesions, and in 1 patient MRI showed a relevant additional lesion. The incidence of MRI-detected white matter ischemic lesions was no greater than in an age- and sex-matched group of subjects without seizures. MRI was diagnostic in 32% of the patients with partial seizures and/or focal EEG findings, as compared with 0% of patients without focal features (p less than 0.01). We conclude that MRI is useful in investigation of patients with late-onset epilepsy with focal features. 
Acute nonhemodynamic pulmonary edema with nifedipine in primary pulmonary hypertension. A 34-year-old man with primary pulmonary hypertension developed acute nonhemodynamic pulmonary edema after a loading dose of nifedipine. Changes of the vascular permeability induced by the drug acting on the arteriolar wall of the capillary system could be an explanation. 
Staging carcinoma: its value in cancer of the larynx. Three thousand four hundred and forty-five cases of cancer of the larynx were examined and 3,235 assigned to their TNM group. While good correlation with prognosis could be seen, the value of the detailed subsite (as opposed to the main laryngeal regions) was limited to defining T1a and T1b and aiding that of T2. T status gives some indication of prognosis, but the N status is of almost overriding importance. 
Control of blood gas measurements in intensive-care units. The frequency of blood gas measurement in two adult intensive-care units was assessed for 7 months before and 12 months after introduction of a protocol of indications for such investigation. Demographic, diagnostic, outcome, and intervention data were collected prospectively. There were no differences in demographic characteristics, severity or type of illness, survival, or frequency of arterial or pulmonary artery catheter use between the two observation periods, but the frequency of blood gas analysis fell by 44% (p less than 0.001) after the protocol was introduced. 
Myocardial perfusion imaging with technetium-99m-labeled agents. Thallium-201 (201Tl) is suboptimal as a single-photon emitting agent for myocardial perfusion imaging, in view of its low-energy photons and long half-life. To circumvent these limitations, two new myocardial perfusion imaging agents labeled with technetium-99m (99mTc) have been developed. They are Tc-sestamibi and Tc-teboroxime. Clinical trials of myocardial perfusion with both tracers have shown results similar to those obtained with 201Tl for detection of coronary artery disease. Results to date indicate that Tc-sestamibi accurately detects and locates myocardial infarction and can accurately assess both left and right ventricular ejection fractions by the first-pass technique. In addition, research has shown that rest-stress studies can be performed on the same day and that Tc-sestamibi can be used to assess the results of thrombolytic therapy. Tc-teboroxime has excellent myocardial tracer uptake characteristics but is cleared very rapidly from the myocardium. These features make Tc-teboroxime well suited to rapid serial studies. These new technetium myocardial perfusion agents have just become available for routine clinical use and are likely to replace 201Tl in many of its clinical applications. 
Novel approach to iatrogenic bile peritonitis. Bile peritonitis after injury to the biliary tree is a serious complication that requires exploratory laparotomy. Our patient had an obstructing ampullary carcinoma, and generalized bile peritonitis developed from attempted percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography. The patient's condition was managed by peritoneal lavage and endoscopic transampullary stenting, with immediate relief of pain and toxicity. Exploratory laparotomy was avoided, and an eventual pylorus-sparing Whipple resection was the definitive treatment. We believe this to be the first report of successful nonoperative treatment of a patient with bile peritonitis with obstructive jaundice. 
Hepatic lesions in alcoholic HBV carriers. Liver biopsies were taken from 54 alcoholic HBV carriers with liver dysfunction to assess whether HBV infection or habitual drinking was the main cause of their illness. In 28 cases, ultrastructural studies were done. Results showed that 50% of the cases predominantly displayed virus-related histological changes, whereas 13% of them mainly had alcohol-related ones. Both pathological changes were evenly distributed in four cases. The remaining 15 cases showed nonspecific or other histological changes. Electron microscopy revealed that HBV core and Dane particles were seen with Mallory bodies in the same hepatocytes. Thus, we postulate that HBV-related changes are more often encountered than alcoholic ones in alcoholic HBV carriers and that HBV replication can occur even in hepatocytes bearing Mallory bodies. 
Elevated intravesical pressure causes arterial hypoperfusion in canine colocystoplasty: a fluorometric assessment. Since 1988 there have been 15 reported cases of late, spontaneously ruptured intestinal cystoplasties at bowel sites remote from the anastomosis. Ischemic necrosis has been suggested as a possible etiology. We examined this hypothesis by quantifying the uptake of intravascular fluorescein in the augmented bowel of adult mongrel canines. There was a statistically significant decrease in fluorescein uptake at high intravesical pressures, which appeared to be most pronounced at the antimesenteric border. This laboratory study supports a recent clinical report of histological changes pathognomonic for chronic ischemia in the augmented bowel of patients with spontaneous rupture. 
Endorectal sonography in the evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. Endorectal sonography initially was developed for evaluation of the prostate and now has been adapted for evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. We used endorectal sonography to evaluate a spectrum of diseases, including primary and recurrent rectal carcinoma, metastases, villous adenoma, leiomyosarcoma, endometriosis, sacrococcygeal teratoma, chordoma, retroperitoneal cystic hamartoma, pelvic lipomatosis, diverticulitis, and perirectal abscess. The technique has been useful in localization of perirectal abscesses and in sonographically guided biopsy of perirectal masses. Knowledge of normal sonographic anatomy of the rectum is essential in the evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. In this essay, we describe the technique of endorectal sonography and illustrate the sonographic findings in a variety of diseases. 
Geniculate neuralgia: the surgical management of primary otalgia. Intractable, unexplained deep-ear pain presents a rare, albeit significant problem in otolaryngological and neurosurgical practice. The authors review their experience with 18 cases of primary otalgia during the past 15 years. A total of 31 surgical procedures were performed. Seventeen patients had sequential rhizotomies and one patient had microvascular decompression alone. Based on the clinical diagnosis, the nerves sectioned were singly or in combination: the nervus intermedius (14 patients), geniculate ganglion (10 patients), ninth nerve (14 patients), 10th nerve (11 patients), tympanic nerve (four patients), and chorda tympani nerve (one patient). Microvascular decompression of the involved nerves was undertaken in nine patients, in whom vascular loops were discovered. Adhesions (six patients), thickened arachnoid (three patients), and benign osteoma (one patient) were other intraoperative abnormalities noted. The overall success of these procedures in providing pain relief was 72.2%, and the mean follow-up period was 3.3 years (range 1 month to 14.5 years). There was no surgical mortality. Expected side effects were: decreased lacrimation, salivation, and taste related to nervus intermedius nerve section, and transient hoarseness and diminished gag related to ninth and 10th nerve section. Four patients developed sequelae consisting of sensorineural hearing loss, vertigo, and transient facial nerve paresis. One patient had a cerebrospinal fluid leak and another developed aseptic meningitis as postoperative complications. Except when primary glossopharyngeal neuralgia is the working diagnosis, a combined posterior cranial fossa-middle cranial fossa approach is recommended for adequate exploration and/or section of the fifth, ninth, and 10th cranial nerves as well as the geniculate ganglion and nervus intermedius. 
Clinical utility of transesophageal echocardiography. Routine transthoracic echocardiography fails to generate images of diagnostic quality in a significant number of patients who are obese, uncooperative, or unable to be properly positioned (eg, patients receiving ventilatory assistance), and in those with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chest wall deformities, or recent thoracic surgical procedures. In addition, posterior structures in the heart such as the left atrium, left atrial appendage, atrial septum, and mitral valve are seen with poorer resolution than structures closer to the anterior chest wall. Placement of a sonographic transducer in the esophagus immediately behind the heart circumvents these limitations. Newly developed probes are well tolerated by sedated conscious patients as well as by patients receiving ventilatory assistance in the intensive care unit and those under general anesthesia. Consequently, transesophageal echocardiography is now available for further enhancement of cardiac diagnosis in outpatients, for evaluating the hemodynamic status of critically ill patients in the intensive care unit, for intraoperative assessment of cardiac repairs, and for intraoperative cardiac monitoring in noncardiac surgical procedures. A series of case examples from our practice during a recent 1-year period illustrates the clinical utility of this technique in these settings. 
A pseudoaneurysm of the superficial femoral artery as a late complication of a stab wound. Limited arteriography based on clinical indications has become increasingly popular. We present the case of a patient with pseudoaneurysm formation of the superficial femoral artery as a late consequence of a lateral stab wound to the thigh. This case demonstrates the need for postinjury follow-up to identify missed injuries before they are limb threatening. 
Reduction to homozygosity involving p53 in esophageal cancers demonstrated by the polymerase chain reaction. Loss of heterozygosity affecting chromosome 17p has been detected at high frequencies in a variety of human tumors, including cancers of the colon, breast, lung, and brain. One presumed target of these losses is p53, a tumor suppressor gene located on 17p. To our knowledge, loss of heterozygosity has not yet been reported at any locus, including p53, in human esophageal cancer. Moreover, current methods of detecting loss of heterozygosity depend on the availability of large amounts of high molecular weight DNA, making the study of small biopsy specimens or paraffin-embedded tissues problematic. We examined 52 primary human esophageal neoplasms for loss of heterozygosity affecting the p53 gene by using the polymerase chain reaction. Loss of one allele was detected in 52% of informative cases and was more common in squamous carcinomas than in adenocarcinomas. Southern blot analysis was used to confirm polymerase chain reaction-derived data. The identification of allelic loss in approximately half of the tumors analyzed supports the hypothesis that inactivation of p53 is involved in the pathogenesis of esophageal cancer. 
Photodynamic therapy for multiple primary bronchogenic carcinoma. In recent years, multiple primary lung cancers have been reported with greater frequency, partly as a result of technologic advances in the detection of lung cancer and therapeutic achievements in its management. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a relatively new therapy used with increasing frequency in the treatment of a wide variety of malignancies, including central lung cancers. In PDT, the differential retention of an injected photosensitizer by malignant tissue is exploited by treatment with a low-power laser beam delivered endoscopically. Since 1980, 145 patients with central lung cancers, including 35 cases of endoscopically evaluated early-stage lesions were treated with PDT at Tokyo Medical College. Thirteen of these 145 patients had multiple primary bronchogenic carcinomas, five cases of which were synchronous with the rest, metachronous. Three of 13 patients with multiple tumors had early-stage lesions and were treated with endoscopic PDT alone. In the other ten cases, PDT was used to treat accessible early-stage foci although operative excision was required for advanced lesions. Mean survival after PDT, alone or in combination with surgery, was 38 months (range, 14 to 87 months), and seven patients remain alive to date. It was concluded that PDT is useful in extending the therapeutic options for, and improving the prognosis of patients with, multiple primary bronchogenic carcinomas. 
Electrothrombosis of saccular aneurysms via endovascular approach. Part 1: Electrochemical basis, technique, and experimental results. Eleven experimental saccular aneurysms were created on the common carotid artery of swine. Between 3 and 15 days after creation of these aneurysms, they were thrombosed via an endovascular approach, using a very soft detachable platinum coil delivered through a microcatheter positioned within the aneurysm. This detachable platinum coil was soldered to a stainless steel delivery guidewire. Intra-aneurysmal thrombosis was then initiated by applying a low positive direct electric current to the delivery guidewire. Thrombosis occurred because of the attraction of negatively charged white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets, and fibrinogen to the positively charged platinum coil positioned within the aneurysm. The passage of electric current detached the platinum coil within the clotted aneurysm in 4 to 12 minutes. This detachment was elicited by electrolysis of the stainless steel wire nearest to the thrombus-covered platinum coil. Control angiograms obtained 2 to 6 months postembolization confirmed permanent aneurysm occlusion as well as patency of the parent artery in all cases. No angiographic manifestation of untoward distal embolization was noted. Due to the encouraging results of this research, this technique has been applied in selected clinical cases which are described in Part 2 of this study. 
Non-Q- and Q-wave infarction after thrombolytic therapy with intravenous streptokinase for chest pain and anterior ST-segment elevation The clinical features of patients treated with streptokinase for chest pain and anterior ST-segment elevation who subsequently develop non-Q-wave infarction are unknown. Of the 75 consecutive patients who initially presented with chest pain and ST-segment elevation in the anterior leads (V1-V6, I, aVL) and were treated with intravenous streptokinase (time from symptoms to treatment averaged less than 3 hours), 32 (43%) developed a non-Q-wave and 43 (57%) a Q-wave myocardial infarction. Twenty seven of 32 patients (84%) from the non-Q-wave group and 39 of 43 (91%) from the Q-wave group were studied by angiography at 5.16 +/- 2.88 days after the onset of myocardial infarction. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 13 +/- 6 vs 20 +/- 7 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), left ventricular ejection fraction was 60 +/- 8 vs 49 +/- 14% (p less than 0.001) and the infarct vessel patency rate was 85 vs 72% (p = 0.44) in patients with a non-Q versus a Q-wave infarction, respectively. In summary, when patients presenting with chest pain and ST-segment elevation are treated with streptokinase, a significant portion of these symptoms will evolve into a non-Q-wave infarction. Patients with a non-Q-wave infarction will have a better preserved left ventricular function than patients who develop a Q-wave infarction. This suggests the need for equal distribution of such patients in randomized trials of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction to avoid misinterpreting data between groups. 
Cardiac sources of embolism and cerebral infarction--clinical consequences and vascular concomitants: the Lausanne Stroke Registry. We studied clinical characteristics and coexisting causes of stroke in 305 patients admitted to a population-based primary care center with an initial ischemic stroke and a potential cardiac source of embolism (PCSE). Using systematic standardized cardiac, arterial, and cerebral investigations and the logistics of the prospective Lausanne Stroke Registry, we found that nonprogressive onset, hemianopia without hemiparesis or hemisensory disturbances, Wernicke's aphasia, ideomotor apraxia, involvement of specific territories (posterior division of middle cerebral artery, anterior cerebral artery, cerebellum, multiple territories), and a hemorrhagic component were associated with the presence of a PCSE, as compared with 1,006 initial ischemic stroke patients without PCSE. Although age and sex did not differ, the frequency of hypertension, diabetes, cigarette smoking, elevated blood cholesterol, and deep hemispheric or brainstem infarcts was higher in the patients without a PCSE. Nearly one-fourth of the patients with a PCSE had a coexisting potential arterial cause of stroke (large artery greater than or equal to 50% stenosis or small-vessel disease). In the majority of patients with a PCSE (76.7%), cardioembolism was the most likely cause of stroke, although a direct source of embolism was uncommon (4.3%) and intracranial embolic occlusions were present in less than one-half of the patients who were angiographed. 
Clinical factors affecting the immediate outcome of PTCA in patients with unstable angina and poor candidates for surgery. Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) has been successfully applied in unstable angina to carefully selected patients. In this study, PTCA was performed in 277 consecutive patients suffering from unstable angina and for whom bypass surgery was not a valid alternative because either of inoperable conditions or of emergency, or because surgery was not the best option. All patients were admitted first to the intensive care unit where an attempt was made to control unstable angina under conventional medical therapy using at least iv nitroderivative, heparin, and calcium blockers. After a standardized preparation PTCA was performed either as an emergency procedure in medically refractory unstable angina (107 cases) or as an elective procedure in controlled situations after a 7 to 10 days symptom-free period. Three hundred fifty-three coronary vessels were attempted. Results of this group are compared with those of a control group made of 670 consecutive stable patients recruited during the same period, and clinical characteristics are envisaged as potential predictive factors. Unstable angina is undoubtedly associated with a higher overall complication rate, but the immediate outcome is strongly affected by the clinical context. As an example, respective success and mortality rates are: 93% and 0% when a full revascularization is attempted; 91% and 0% in elective procedures in patients under 60; 87% and 1.2% in elective PTCA for multiple vessel disease; 80% and 6.5% in emergency PTCA; 80% and 11% in the overall triple vessel disease; 84% and 16% in patients with deeply altered ejection fraction; and 58% and 26% in triple vessel disease with 2 previously occluded coronary arteries. 
Different types of chronic hepatitis in alcoholic patients: does chronic hepatitis induced by alcohol exist? To verify the existence of chronic hepatitis induced by alcohol, the clinicopathological features of chronic hepatitis in heavy drinkers were studied using various viral markers. Histological features of chronic active hepatitis were seen in 27 heavy drinkers. These patients were divided into four groups. The AL group (seven cases) consisted of alcoholics who were negative for both hepatitis C antibody and HBsAg; the HB group (four cases) was positive for HBsAg; the HC1 group (seven cases) was positive for hepatitis C antibody but negative for hepatitis C virus-RNA genome; and the HC2 group (nine cases) was positive both for hepatitis C antibody and hepatitis C virus-RNA genome. Serum AST and ALT activity declined during 4 wk of abstinence in most patients in the AL group and in the HC1 group. The response of serum AST and ALT to abstinence was poor in most patients in the HB group and the HC2 group. Serum desialo-transferrin and alcohol liver membrane antibodies were detected more frequently in the sera of patients in the AL group and HC1 group. A trend toward increased frequency of centrilobular ballooning existed in the AL group, but this did not reach statistical significance. These results suggest that chronic active hepatitis in patients in the AL group, in whom markers of HBV and hepatitis C virus were absent, may be caused by alcohol. Patients in the HC1 group who had hepatitis C antibody but not hepatitis C virus-RNA may represent cases where both alcohol and hepatitis C virus are involved. 
Clinical evaluation of stenosis of the carotid bifurcation with magnetic resonance angiographic techniques. We evaluated the images of 60 carotid artery bifurcations in 31 patients suspected to have carotid artery disease who underwent invasive carotid angiography and combined two-dimensional, phase-sensitive and a gradient-echo magnetic resonance angiography. The phase scans consisted of seven serial projections that were obtained at 20 degrees intervals (11.0 minutes) around the carotid bifurcation; the gradient-echo (GRASS) scans were composed of 11 axial images (2.4 minutes) acquired through the bifurcation. The two magnetic resonance angiographic techniques yielded complementary pieces of information and were used together to compare magnetic resonance angiography with invasive angiography. Comparison of magnetic resonance and invasive angiograms of the 60 carotid arteries shows that the sensitivity (86%) and specificity (92%) of the magnetic resonance angiographic techniques we used to diagnose clinically significant carotid stenosis approach but do not reach those of invasive angiography. 
Radionuclide assessment of infarct size and left ventricular function in clinical trials of thrombolysis. Mortality, left ventricular ejection fraction, and infarct size are important end points in evaluating the efficiency of thrombolytic treatment in clinical trials. Radionuclide assessment of ejection fraction and infarct size is safe, accurate, reproducible, and readily available. Its use in clinical trials supplements mortality data and allows meaningful results in trials with smaller patient numbers. Single photon emission computed tomography improves the detection and quantification of infarct size, and its use with new radiopharmaceuticals will assume an important role in future trials. For an 8-year period, these radionuclide techniques have been used in the Western Washington Thrombolysis Trials and have generally shown smaller infarct size and higher ejection fractions in patients receiving streptokinase and tissue-type plasminogen activator. However, in the most recent trial there was no direct relation between these end points and the time between symptom onset and initiation of treatment. Future trials that direct efforts to treatment in the first hour after symptom onset should further clarify this observation. 
Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome: the risks and benefits of vascular interventions. Our experience with Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome (KTS), a rare congenital malformation, has increased considerably in recent years and now includes 144 patients (65 male and 79 female patients). Hemangioma was present in 137 patients (95.1%), varicosity in 110 (76.4%), and hypertrophy of the soft tissues or bones in 134 (93.1%). In most patients (71.5%) the disease involved one lower extremity. Diagnostic workup included roentgenogram to document limb length discrepancy, noninvasive arterial and venous evaluation, contrast venography, and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging. Most patients did well without treatment or with elastic compression only. Surgical treatment for the vascular malformation in KTS is rarely needed and it continues to be controversial. To evaluate the risks and benefits of vascular interventions, we examined in detail the clinical histories of nine patients who in the last decade underwent operation for a vascular malformation of the lower extremity. In seven patients we removed varicose veins or resected hemangioma of the lower extremity. Although none was cured, all five who underwent resection of varicose veins and one of the two patients who underwent resection of a hemangioma improved. Two additional patients, however, who underwent resection of varicose veins in another institution had worsening of the symptoms. In one patient we performed deep venous reconstruction for atresia of the superficial femoral vein, using the contralateral saphenous vein. Such operation in KTS has not been reported previously. The patient has a patent graft with a competent valve and clinical improvement 6 months after the operation. Although patients with severe chronic venous insufficiency, disturbing cosmetic appearance, or complications of hemangioma may benefit from surgical treatment, detailed preoperative imaging of the extremity and pelvis with magnetic resonance imaging and contrast venography is needed to decrease complications. Rarely, reconstruction for atresia or hypoplasia of the deep veins may be needed. 
DNA ploidy pattern of flat adenomas of the large bowel. In an attempt to clarify the nature of "flat adenomas," DNA content was measured by means of microspectrophotometry. Thirty-nine flat adenomas (FA), 13 with mild, 22 with moderate, and 4 with severe atypia, were collected for this study. In FA, diploidy (D), polyploidy (P), and aneuploidy (A) were found 100, 0, and 0 percent in mild atypia, 41.9, 4.5, and 54.5 percent in moderate atypia, and 0, 0, and 100 percent in severe atypia, respectively. It is assumed that FA have a much higher malignancy potential than previously expected since, histologically, benign-appearing FA with moderate atypia have already contained malignant DNA patterns. In particular, those more than 5 mm in diameter show aneuploidy in 80 percent. These data suggest that FA with moderate atypia play an important role in the pathogenesis of small colonic carcinomas. 
Failure of MR imaging to detect reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities. Reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities is a disease with a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations. It is characterized by pain, hyperthermia, and cutaneous changes and has been linked to an abnormality of regional blood flow. The disease is associated with previous injury or trauma including surgery, but also has been found in association with myocardial infarctions and tumors. The final diagnosis can be made only on the basis of the clinical course, which is characterized either by regression without sequel or the appearance of aponeurotic and tendinous retractions including bony sclerosis in the affected region occurring over many months to years. The literature and our own results show that MR imaging has high sensitivity for diagnosing transient osteoporosis of the hip, which is generally thought to be a form of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. Therefore we investigated the usefulness of MR imaging for diagnosing sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities. Twenty-five patients underwent T1- and T2-weighted MR imaging of the affected body region. They were selected on the basis of the initial clinical findings and positive findings on scintigraphy, which is known to be a sensitive, but not very specific, imaging method for sympathetic dystrophy. The final diagnosis was established on the basis of the clinical course in 17 of the 25 patients. In 10 of these, findings on MR images were completely normal, in six the MR images showed only nonspecific soft-tissue changes or bone marrow sclerosis, and in one patient they showed changes in bone marrow signal. Of the remaining eight patients without a final diagnosis of sympathetic dystrophy, MR showed soft-tissue or bone marrow alterations in six. MR imaging appears to be of little value in establishing the diagnosis of sympathetic dystrophy, but it may improve diagnostic specificity when used in conjunction with scintigraphy. 
Hypertensives' pressor response to norepinephrine. Analysis by infusion rate and plasma levels. After 5 days of a 10 mEq sodium diet or 4 days of a 200 mEq sodium diet, 15 hypertensives and 11 normotensive control subjects received pressor doses of intravenous norepinephrine (NE). Analysis of pressor responses to the rate of NE infusion showed that the high salt diet sensitized subjects so that they needed less NE to raise systolic blood pressure (SBP) 20 mm Hg (P = .005). There was a complex interaction of salt intake, black race, and hypertension on NE pressor sensitivity (P = .03). Hypertensives attained lower plasma NE levels during the stepwise NE infusion, so we reanalyzed NE sensitivity in terms of the changes in plasma NE levels. This analysis also showed that during the high salt diet, subjects initiated a pressor response at lower plasma NE levels (P = .017) and raised SBP 20 mm Hg at lower NE levels (P = .007). The reanalysis showed that hypertensives initiated a pressor response at lower plasma NE levels (P = .03) and raised SBP 20 mm Hg at lower NE levels (P = .002). Plasma NE levels should provide a better guide to the concentration of NE at cardiovascular receptors than the rate of NE infusion. Analysis of pressor responses to plasma NE levels demonstrated that the hypertensives had an exaggerated pressor response to NE. 
Chaos, balance, and development: thoughts on selected childhood epilepsy syndromes. Age-specific epilepsy syndromes raise important questions about developmental susceptibility to seizures and epileptogenesis and about the effect of seizures on function. The diagnosis and treatment of these syndromes has been enhanced by the use of modern science and technology. Epidemiologic studies have changed our approach to febrile convulsions. This developmental seizure disorder is benign and self-limited. We have been forced to think carefully about threshold, therapy, and whether other seizures in childhood may be equally benign. This framework of developmental specificity can also be applied to West syndrome, especially with respect to neurophysiology, neurochemistry, neuroimaging, and epidemiology--the types of seizures, clustering, variations associated with sleep, PET scans, and therapy. Rasmussen's syndrome and other unilateral developmental epilepsies are progressive but remain confined to a single hemisphere. However, they usually are devastating to global neurologic function. They are models for examining the impact of epilepsy in one pathologic hemisphere on the function of the entire brain. Current therapy for this condition is hemispherectomy. Recovery of function after this major surgery is striking and provides clues to brain organization. The analysis of these three syndromes provides windows on the dynamic, changing central nervous system of the child and may lead to better understanding and therapy for other seizure disorders. 
Classification of epilepsies and epileptic syndromes in two different samples of patients. We attempted to classify, according to the International Classification of Epilepsies and Epileptic Syndromes, 986 patients consecutively examined during a 13-month period either in a specialized private practice (n = 642) or in an adult neurology unit in a university hospital (n = 344). Without major difficulty, we classified 97% of patients in more or less clearly defined syndromes. Benign frontal and benign psychomotor epilepsies of childhood were represented in this sample of patients. In either partial or generalized idiopathic epilepsies, a diagnosis of epilepsy appears justified even after a single epileptic event when sufficient electroclinical characteristics are present. Patients with symptomatic generalized epilepsies often have to be classified under two or three headings. Many children with a symptomatic generalized epilepsy also experience partial seizures. Alcoholic epilepsy is described as a veritable epileptic syndrome. The distribution of epileptic syndromes was clearly different in the two samples, casting doubt on the value of some epidemiologic surveys based on selected groups of patients. 
Factors influencing postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease in childhood. We have reviewed the outcome of all patients undergoing their first intestinal resection for Crohn's disease at this hospital between 1970 and 1987. Recurrence rates, defined by recurrent intestinal symptoms and radiological confirmation of mucosal disease, were calculated using survival analysis. Age, sex, anatomical location of disease, indication for surgery, preoperative duration of symptomatic disease, use of preoperative bowel rest, and pathological features of the resected bowel were analysed individually and jointly as potential risk factors influencing postoperative recurrence of disease. Eighty two patients (age, mean (SD) 14.8 (2.5) years) underwent intestinal resection and were followed postoperatively for a minimum of one year (mean 5.3 (3.3) years). Anatomical location of disease, indication for surgery, and preoperative duration of symptomatic disease were the only factors that significantly influenced the duration of the recurrence free interval. Patients with diffuse ileocolonic inflammation experienced earlier recurrence (50% at one year) than children with predominantly small bowel disease (50% recurrence at five years, p less than 0.0001). Failure of medical therapy independent of disease location as the sole indication for surgery was associated with an earlier relapse than when surgery was performed for a specific intestinal complication such as abscess or obstruction (p less than 0.003). Patients undergoing resection within one year of onset of symptoms experienced delayed recrudescence of active disease (30% recurrence by eight years) compared with patients whose preoperative duration of symptomatic disease was longer (50% recurrence by four years when preoperative duration of disease was one to four years and 50% by three years when disease had been present greater than four years preoperatively, p = 0.03). 
Clinical follow-up and progression of carotid atherosclerosis determined by duplex scanning in patients suffering from TIA. We investigated the clinical outcomes and the progression of the internal carotid arterial lesions of a group of patients presenting with hemispheric TIAs. The cumulative frequency of TIAs during a mean follow-up period of 40 +/- 14 months was 14%, and no relationship was found between new TIAs and the presence of known cardiovascular risk factors or plaque characteristics as determined by duplex scanning. With the exception of one patient who died of stroke, none of the patients developed a permanent neurologic deficit. The cumulative death rate was 6.5%; myocardial infarction was the most common cause (3 out of 7). Anatomic progression of plaques was determined by duplex scanning in 22% of the internal carotid arteries. No relationship between progression of these plaques and the development of new TIAs was evident. We conclude that, in this group of patients, TIAs do not inevitably lead to stroke and that TIAs are not predictable based on risk factors or plaques characteristics. 
Proopiomelanocortin gene expression in normal and tumoral human lung. Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene expression is not restricted to the pituitary corticotroph cell, but also takes place in many normal and tumoral nonpituitary tissues. In contrast, the ectopic ACTH syndrome is a rare event. Because it is most often associated with lung tumors, we specifically studied this tissue, analyzing the different forms of POMC RNAs in normal specimens as well as in various types of tumors. The endocrine nature of the tumors was assessed by both histological examination and measurements of secretogranin-I fragments in the tissue extracts. POMC RNA was first detected by Northern blot analysis; its absolute amounts and its various molecular forms were more precisely quantified and discriminated by S1 mapping studies using a single stranded DNA probe located at the 5' end of exon 3. In five bronchial carcinoid tumors associated with the ectopic ACTH syndrome, a highly predominant, if not single, POMC RNA identical to the 1200-nucleotide (nt) pituitary message was present, the high amounts of which were correlated with those of POMC peptides in the same tissues. In five bronchial carcinoid tumors not associated with the ectopic ACTH syndrome, the same message was detected (four of five), with a second, often predominant, short RNA of about 800 nt (five of five), and the overall amounts of POMC RNAs were low. Similar patterns of POMC RNAs were observed in squamous cell tumors, adenocarcinomas, and normal lung, where the short 800-nt RNA tended to be predominant. These results show that POMC gene expression can be demonstrated in normal lung tissue and in all types of lung tumors. The ectopic ACTH syndrome only occurs with tumors capable of generating high amounts of the pituitary-like message, a phenomenon that seems to be restricted to an occasional tumor with features of neuroendocrine differentiation. 
Autoantibody-encoding kappa L chain genes frequently rearranged in lambda L chain-expressing chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Patients with kappa L chain expressing chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) frequently have leukemia cells reactive with a murine mAb, designated 17.109. Raised against a monoclonal IgM rheumatoid factor autoantibody, this mAb recognizes a major kappa-L chain-associated cross reactive Id, designated 17.109-CRI. Molecular studies reveal that the 17.109-CRI in CLL is a serologic marker for expression of a conserved kappa L chain V region gene (V Kappa gene) of the V Kappa 3 subgroup, designated Humkv325. We isolated an upstream gene fragment of Humkv325 to examine for Ig gene rearrangements of this and other closely related V Kappa 3 genes by Southern analyses. Consistent with Humkv325 encoding the 17.109-CRI, we find that the genomic DNA from all 17.109-reactive leukemia cell populations have gene rearrangements that are detected using this probe. In addition, we observe V Kappa 3 gene rearrangements frequently in the genomic DNA of lambda L chain-expressing leukemia cells. Of the genomic DNA from 33 lambda-L chain-expressing CLL samples, 8 (24%) had additional nongerm-line bands detected with the Humkv325 probe. Consistent with these bands representing Ig gene rearrangements, the additional band in each but one sample also hybridized with probes specific for the J Kappa region and/or the kappa-deleting element. Using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), we examined the genomic DNA from all lambda L chain-expressing CLL for V Kappa 3 gene rearrangements to J Kappa and/or Kde. PCR on each DNA sample with V Kappa 3 gene rearrangements detected by Southern analysis generated gene fragments that hybridized specifically with oligonucleotides corresponding to framework or CDR of the Humkv325 gene. Nucleic acid sequence analyses of representative samples confirmed that these DNA contained abortive Humkv325 gene rearrangements. PCR for rearranged V Kappa 3 genes in the DNA of other lambda-L chain-expressing CLL either did not generate any PCR product or produced fragments that failed to hybridize with all Humkv325 oligonucleotide probes. Nucleic acid sequence analyses of the latter demonstrated that these represent abortive V Kappa gene rearrangements involving another conserved V Kappa 3 gene, designated Vg. These studies indicate that Humkv325 and Vg frequently may undergo Ig gene rearrangement independent of their expression. As such, the frequent use of Humkv325 in CLL may be secondary, in part, to an enhanced propensity of this V Kappa 3 gene to undergo genetic rearrangement during B cell ontogeny. 
Relationship between redistribution on exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy and repetitive ventricular premature beats in patients with recent myocardial infarction. The relationship between myocardial ischemia detected by exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy and repetitive ventricular premature beats (VPBs) during ambulatory monitoring was evaluated in 57 patients with recent myocardial infarction. Multivariate analysis was performed to obtain the relatively important factor related to repetitive VPBs with the use of the following variables: age, redistribution, left ventricular ejection fraction, serum potassium and magnesium concentration, QRS score, left ventricular aneurysm, and the number of diseased vessels. Thirty-five patients had redistribution, but only three of them had repetitive VPBs during exercise testing. The average heart rate before 79% of 398 episodes of repetitive VPBs during ambulatory monitoring was in the range of 56 to 70/min. These data indicate that most of repetitive VPBs during ambulatory monitoring were not provoked by exercise-induced acute myocardial ischemia. However, redistribution was found to be an important factor associated with repetitive VPBs. The electrical abnormality relating to a substrate characterized by chronic reversible ischemia may explain the association between redistribution and repetitive VPBs. 
Prediction of subclinical tumor infiltration in basal cell carcinoma. Two thousand-sixteen basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) were documented in terms of age, anatomic location, tumor diameter, initial excision depth, safety margin, histologic type, and the position of tumor outgrowths as determined by three-dimensional histologic study of the tumor margins in paraffin sections (micrographic surgery). The extent of each subsequent excision was recorded until tumor-free tissue was reached. The results showed that BCCs have a highly irregular infiltration pattern and a predilection for small, fingerlike outgrowths whose bases occupy 1-30 degrees of the tumor circumference. When superficial extension was expressed mathematically, the resulting exponential functions varied highly significantly (P = .001) according to histologic tumor type and diameter. The resulting curves permitted very precise prediction of the probability of tumor-positive margins (ie, subtotal excision), depending on the safety margin, histologic tumor type, and tumor diameter. For example, the probability of tumor-positive margins after excision of a BCC up to 10 mm in diameter is 30% with a safety margin of 2 mm, 16% with a safety margin of 3 mm, and 5% with a safety margin of 5 mm. The probability of tumor-positive margins for fibrosing primary BCCs 10-20 mm in diameter is 48, 34, and 18% with safety margins of 2, 3, and 5 mm, respectively. Recurrent tumors have a significantly higher probability of positive margins (P = .001) than primary ones. Anatomic location and tumor age affect subclinical extension only indirectly. 
Effect of antitumor surgery on soluble interleukin-2 receptor serum levels. Surgically induced immunosuppression may play a role in cancer, because of the possible existence of micrometastases at the time of surgical removal of tumors. Antitumor immune reactions are mediated by interleukin-2 (IL-2). IL-2 acts on a specific IL-2 cell surface receptor; moreover, a soluble form of IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) can be released in the blood. This study was carried out to evaluate the effect of surgery on sIL-2R serum levels in patients with operable solid tumors. A total of 48 patients with cancer and 11 controls who underwent major surgery for non-neoplastic disease were evaluated before and 7 days after surgery. Serum mean levels of sIL-2R were significantly higher after than before surgery in both the cancer and control groups. No correlation was seen between surgery-induced changes in sIL-2R and in T lymphocyte subsets. Because of its capacity of binding to IL-2, the increased blood concentrations of sIL-2R could reduce the IL-2 availability and negatively affect antitumor immune reactions. 
Maternal reproductive history and birth characteristics in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Using birth-registration data, a case-control study was done to investigate the possible associations of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with birth characteristics and maternal reproductive history. The data included cases born and diagnosed in Minnesota since 1969. Matched analyses were conducted using 337 cases and 1336 birth year-matched controls. There was a statistically significant increased odds of ALL for birth to older (greater than 35 years) mothers (odds ratio (OR) = 2.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.28, 3.58), older fathers (OR = 1.62, 95% CI = 1.14, 2.30), mothers with at least a high school education (OR = 1.61, 95% CI = 1.05, 2.48), and larger intervals (greater than 5 years) between the birth of the proband and the preceding sibling (OR = 1.86, 95% CI = 1.12, 3.09). The increased odds of ALL for birth by Caesarean section approached significance (OR = 1.42, P = 0.06). No overall association was found for: gender, race, paternal education, fetal-loss history, birth order, prenatal care history, pregnancy complications, inducement of labor, multiple birth, gestational age, or birth weight. Age at diagnosis was an important effect modifier of some analyses. For cases diagnosed before age 2 years, there was a 2.7-fold increased odds of ALL if the last pregnancy had resulted in a fetal loss (P = 0.03). For cases diagnosed before age 4 years, birth weight greater than 3800 g was associated with a significant 2.05-fold increased odds of ALL. These data strengthen the hypothesis that prenatal events may play a causative role in childhood ALL, particularly in those cases diagnosed at a younger age. 
Laser uvulopalatoplasty in treatment of habitual snoring. Velopharyngeal sonorous snoring is best treated with uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP). To reduce surgical risks and minimize the morbidity, a simplified carbon dioxide laser uvulopalatoplasty (LUPP) was performed under local anesthesia. Among a total of 146 patients who had a LUPP performed, there was no significant bleeding or postoperative episodes of asphyxia. The procedure was well tolerated even by those patients with strong vomiting reflexes. The operation time was halved, as was the convalescence. Two patients (1.4%) developed scarring with nasal obstruction, but the impact of factors other than the laser approach itself seemed to be the cause. By scored questionnaires the effect on snoring, family complaints, and daytime somnolence was evaluated in two comparable random groups of patients. Sixty-three patients had LUPP procedures, and 37 had UPPP. The short-term results showed that about 90% of the patients considered themselves essentially improved as regarded snoring and that most patients felt more alert, irrespective of the surgical method used. 
Cerebral granular cell tumor occurring with glioblastoma multiforme: case report. A 65-year-old man presented with 4 weeks of partial right visual field loss. A left occipital granular cell tumor was diagnosed via open biopsy. No specific tumoricidal therapy was given, and the patient returned 2 weeks later with fluent dysphasia and mild right hemiparesis, and formed visual hallucinations. A large left parietotemporal mass, separate from the granular cell tumor, was diagnosed as a glioblastoma multiforme by stereotactic biopsy. The histogenesis of cerebral granular cell tumors is controversial; this case supports recent speculation of their possible glial origin. 
The parietal cell autoantibodies recognized in neonatal thymectomy-induced murine gastritis are the alpha and beta subunits of the gastric proton pump. Murine autoimmune gastritis, induced by neonatal thymectomy, bears a striking similarity in pathology to the human autoimmune disease, pernicious anemia. Autoantibodies to parietal cells are found in both murine and human diseases. Monoclonal immunoglobulin G autoantibodies, obtained from neonatally thymectomized mice, have previously been shown to recognize two groups of gastric parietal cell antigens. In the present study, it is shown that two of these monoclonal autoantibodies, designated 1H9 and 2B6, are directed against the alpha subunit and beta subunit, respectively, of the gastric hydrogen-potassium-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase (H+,K(+)-ATPase; proton pump). Monoclonal antibody 1H9 showed reactivity by immunoblotting with a 95-kilodalton component of dog gastric tubulovesicular membranes and with a fusion protein containing the hydrophilic domain of the alpha subunit of the H+,K(+)-ATPase. Monoclonal antibody 2B6 reacted by immunoblotting with the 60-90-kilodalton glycoprotein (beta subunit) of the tomato lectin-purified dog H+,K(+)-ATPase and with the 60-90-kilodalton autoantigen purified with human parietal cell autoantibodies. Monoclonal antibody 2B6 also reacted with the deglycosylated 35-kilodalton core protein of the tomato lectin-purified 60-90-kilodalton beta subunit and of the purified 60-90-kilodalton autoantigen. Parietal cell autoantibody-positive sera from 20 mice with experimentally induced gastritis showed reactivity predominantly with the alpha and/or beta subunit of the gastric H+,K(+)-ATPase. Therefore, it is concluded that the major molecules targeted by parietal cell autoantibodies from mice with neonatal thymectomy-induced murine autoimmune gastritis and from humans with pernicious anemia are identical. 
Immunohistochemical staining of CA 50 antigen in human bladder cancer. Relation to histologic grade, clinical stage, and prognosis. The immunohistochemical detection of tumor marker CA 50 was studied in bladder cancer of WHO grades I-III. The material consisted of tumors in 83 patients and the mean clinical follow-up time was thirteen years (range 9.6-22 years). The fraction of CA 50-positive cells (FPtot) in microscopic image was scored 0-100 percent. Also the maximally staining region was selected, and the fraction of CA 50-positive cells in this region was scored 0-100 percent (FPmax). The average staining intensity of CA 50-positive cells was scored from 0 to 3 in the whole section (ASItot) and in the maximally staining area (ASImax). The inverse relation between histologic grade, FPtot (p = 0.0001), and ASItot (p = 0.006) was statistically significant. FPtot (p = 0.039) and ASItot (p = 0.018) were also inversely related to clinical stage. Occurrence of metastasis during the follow-up was associated with low CA 50 positivity (FPtot, p = 0.003; ASItot, p = 0.002). The lower the staining intensity or the lower the fraction of CA 50-positive cells, the more aggressive was the tumor. In survival analysis, low FPtot (p = 0.002) and ASItot (p = 0.007) values were related to high risk of bladder cancer death. The results show that immunohistochemical staining of bladder tumor specimens with CA 50 can be used to predict bladder cancer aggressiveness and survival. 
The bottom end. Handling of the perineal wound after abdominoperineal resection. There are a number of options for handling the perineal wound following abdominoperineal resection, including open packing or primary closure with suction drainage. Open packing has not been widely accepted, fearing that it may delay perineal wound healing. The purpose of this paper, therefore, was to retrospectively evaluate, the experience at Ferguson Hospital with abdominoperineal resection from 1977 through 1986. The study population consisted of 288 patients undergoing abdominoperineal resection for rectal adenocarcinoma. Forty-six patients had the perineal wound closed primarily and 242 had the perineal wound packed open. Ninety-four patients had the pelvic peritoneum left open and 194 underwent closure of the pelvic peritoneum. Overall operative mortality was 2.1 per cent, and there was no significant difference between primary closure and open packing of the perineal wound with respect to hospital stay, operating time, operative blood loss, perioperative mortality, incidence of postoperative bowel obstruction, incidence of postoperative complications, or average time for perineal wound healing. Therefore, it would appear that packing the perineal wound following abdominoperineal resection is a viable means of handling the bottom end. 
Potential role of PFOB enhanced sonography of the kidney. II. Detection of partial infarction. Aside from its ability to assess flow velocity within vessels, color Doppler and gray-scale sonography cannot distinguish perfused from non-perfused tissues. In this study we evaluated whether Perfluorooctylbromide (PFOB), a sonographic contrast agent given i.v., could aid sonography with this recognition. Partial renal infarction was produced by a 1 mm bead embolized in the right, the left, or both renal arteries of 20 normal rabbits. The sonographer, unaware of rabbit assignment, attempted to diagnose the infarct 24 hours later. All 20 rabbits were studied with gray-scale and color Doppler sonography, 10 before and after PFOB and 10 only after PFOB. Angiography and post-mortem examination were done for confirmation. Of the 20 kidneys evaluated before PFOB, the sonographer was unable to diagnose the 10 partial infarctions. Color Doppler identified five of the ten infarcted kidneys, but accurately localized the infarction in only two. Of the 40 kidneys evaluated after PFOB infusion, 20 scanned before and 20 scanned only after PFOB, all 20 partial infarctions were accurately diagnosed with both gray-scale and color Doppler. PFOB enhanced the echogenicity of perfused renal tissue allowing the easy detection of the unenhanced infarct. Because of the increased signal from vessels after PFOB, color Doppler displayed the entire vascular tree, allowing the detection of the truncated embolized branch. The ability of PFOB to enhance Doppler signals and the echogenicity of perfused tissues improved the diagnostic accuracy of sonography when used to detect partial renal infarctions. 
Sarcoid neuropathy. In a case of subacute sensory and motor polyneuropathy associated with sarcoidosis, multiple epineurial and endoneurial granulomas were demonstrated in a sural nerve. Neighbouring nerve fibres were displaced by the granulomas and some were undergoing axonal degeneration. Ultrastructural and teased fibre studies showed axonal atrophy and degeneration with secondary demyelination. Histochemical studies indicated the presence of HLA-DR antigen on epithelioid cells in the granulomas. A non-specific inflammatory process in the nerve does not cause significant primary demyelination. 
Measurement of in vivo urological tumour cell kinetics using multiparameter flow cytometry. Preliminary study. The in vivo labelling of urological tumour cells using the S phase marker bromodeoxyuridine (BRdU) for histochemical studies is reported. The use of multiparameter flow cytometry (FCM) with BRdU labelling to study tumour proliferation offers significant advantages. It provides simultaneous measurements of the DNA ploidy (DI), the duration of the S phase (Ts), the potential doubling time (Tpot) and the total and aneuploid tumour labelling indices (LI) from a single specimen. Heterogenous tumour cell populations can be measured with high sensitivity. We report a preliminary study to evaluate the method in the measurement of the kinetics of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (TCCB). Nineteen patients with TCCB, 1 with leukoplakia of the bladder, 2 with renal carcinoma, 1 with prostatic carcinoma and 1 with a squamous carcinoma of the penis were studied. Of the bladder tumours, 3 were aneuploid, DI = 1.32, 1.58 and 1.89. BRdU uptake was detected in all tumours. The median LI was 1.5% (range 0.5-10.0). In 15/19 tumours the labelling profile was satisfactory for calculation of the Ts and Tpot. The median Ts was 6.2 h and the median Tpot was 17.1 days. This study demonstrates that measurement of multiple parameters of urological tumour proliferation in vivo is possible. These parameters require further assessment as indices of biological aggressiveness and clinical prognosis. 
Fate of patients with acute myocardial infarction with patency of the infarct-related vessel achieved with successful thrombolysis versus rescue angioplasty. Patients with failure of infarct-related artery recanalization after thrombolytic therapy have a poor clinical outcome. These patients have been considered for rescue angioplasty 90 min after thrombolytic therapy at the time of emergency catheterization in the course of five Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) trials. The outcome of 776 patients with patent infarct-related vessels after emergency catheterization was analyzed--607 with thrombolysis-mediated patency of the infarct-related vessel and 169 with patency achieved by angioplasty. Baseline characteristics of the thrombolysis and angioplasty patency groups were similar except for a higher acute left ventricular ejection fraction (51.3% versus 48.2%) in the thrombolysis group (p = 0.003). Seven to 10 day left ventricular ejection fraction was higher (52.3% versus 48.1%), infarct zone functional recovery was greater (0.44 versus 0.21 standard deviation/chord, or 18% versus 7%, p = 0.001) and reocclusion was less (11% versus 21%) in the thrombolysis compared with the angioplasty group. Despite these differences, angioplasty patency was associated with the same low in-hospital mortality rate (5.9% versus 4.6%) and long-term mortality rate (3% versus 2%) as thrombolysis patency. Reocclusion adversely affected the mortality rate and ventricular functional recovery. Technical failure of rescue angioplasty was associated with a much higher mortality rate than was technical success (39.1% versus 5.9%). Thrombolysis patency was preferable to angioplasty patency after thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction, but both were associated with the same low in-hospital and long-term mortality rates, suggesting that rescue angioplasty is beneficial in some patients with failure of infarct-related artery recanalization after thrombolytic therapy. 
Cerebral ischemic events associated with endocarditis, retinal vascular disease, and lupus anticoagulant. PURPOSE: A group of young patients presenting with cerebral ischemic events, endocardial lesions, and lupus anticoagulant is described in order to highlight the common clinical laboratory features. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fourteen consecutive patients (10 females, age range 17 to 53 years [mean 38 years]) at onset of symptoms of cerebral ischemia who had evidence of the lupus anticoagulant syndrome and were being followed prospectively are reviewed. All patients had abnormal phospholipid-dependent coagulation test results, and most had anticardiolipin antibody at the time of presentation. Three of 14 had four or more American Rheumatism Association criteria for definite systemic lupus erythematosus and the remaining patients were considered to have primary lupus anticoagulant syndrome. RESULTS: The common features among these patients included at least one cerebral ischemic event at presentation (stroke or transient ischemic attack), or recurrent episodes suggesting cerebral ischemia (amaurosis fugax, recurrent severe migraine headaches), livedo reticularis, endocardial valvular lesions noted on echocardiography (11 mitral, two aortic valve) that were often associated with discrete vegetations, retinal vascular lesions, and computed tomographic/magnetic resonance imaging scanning or angiographic evidence of multiple cerebral infarction. Venous thromboembolic events were uncommon (three of 14). Common laboratory studies included thrombocytopenia (10 of 14), positive direct Coombs' test result (11 of 14), and hypocomplementemia (11 of 14). Follow-up after initial treatment with either salicylates or anticoagulant therapy (warfarin) for up to 10 years indicated that while many patients had recurrent symptoms suggesting cerebral ischemia, major stroke syndromes did not recur nor new episodes emerge. CONCLUSION: The combination of multiple cerebral ischemic lesions and endocardial lesions, including valvular vegetations, suggests that these cerebral ischemic events represent cerebral emboli, and that these cerebral embolic events originate from vegetative lesions on the mitral or, less commonly, aortic valve, in association with lupus anticoagulant. 
Admission alcohol level: a predictor of the course of alcohol withdrawal. BACKGROUND. Little is known about how to predict the course of alcohol withdrawal. This study explores relationships between alcohol levels at admission to a detoxification unit and the severity and outcome of alcohol withdrawal. METHODS. A retrospective cohort study was conducted in two institutions, the Mid-Missouri Mental Health Center (MMMHC) and the Harry S Truman Memorial Veterans Hospital (HSTMVH), of individuals admitted during 1 year. RESULTS. The alcohol levels at admission of the 86 clients at the Mental Health Center and the 99 patients at the HSTMVH, correlated with withdrawal severity over the first 48 hours after admission (R2 = .26 at MMMHC, .41 at HSTMVH, P less than .0001 for both), and remained significantly associated even after adjustment for other variables. Furthermore, individuals who had lower alcohol levels at the time of admission were more likely to stay for rehabilitation following detoxification (P less than .001 for both institutions). CONCLUSIONS. A patient's alcohol level at the time of admission to a detoxification unit may help predict the severity of withdrawal and the treatment outcome. 
Electrode system influence on biphasic waveform defibrillation efficacy in humans. BACKGROUND. Several clinical studies have demonstrated a general superiority of biphasic waveform defibrillation compared with monophasic waveform defibrillation using epicardial lead systems. To test the breadth of utility of biphasic waveforms in humans, a prospective, randomized evaluation of defibrillation efficacy of monophasic and single capacitor biphasic waveform pulses was performed for two distinct nonthoracotomy lead systems as well as for an epicardial electrode system in 51 cardiac arrest survivors undergoing automatic defibrillator implantation. METHODS AND RESULTS. The configurations tested consisted of a right ventricular-left ventricular (RV-LV) epicardial patch-patch system, an RV catheter-chest patch (CP) nonthoracotomy system, and a coronary sinus (CS) catheter-RV catheter nonthoracotomy system. For each configuration, the defibrillation current and voltage waveforms were recorded via a digital oscilloscope to measure defibrillation threshold voltage, current, resistance, and stored energy. Biphasic waveform defibrillation proved more efficient than monophasic waveform defibrillation for the epicardial RV-LV system (4.8 +/- 4.1 versus 6.7 +/- 4.9 J, p = 0.047) and the nonthoracotomy RV-CP system (23.4 +/- 11.1 versus 34.3 +/- 10.4 J, p = 0.0042). Biphasic waveform defibrillation thresholds were not significantly lower than monophasic waveform defibrillation thresholds for the CS-RV nonthoracotomy system (15.6 +/- 7.2 versus 20.0 +/- 11.5 J, p = 0.11). Biphasic waveform defibrillation proved more efficacious than monophasic waveform defibrillation in 13 of 20 patients (65%) with RV-LV epicardial patches, 10 of 15 patients (67%) with an RV-CP nonthoracotomy system, and nine of 16 patients (56%) with an RV-CS nonthoracotomy system. CONCLUSIONS. Biphasic pulsing was useful with nonthoracotomy lead systems as well as with epicardial lead systems. However, the degree of biphasic waveform defibrillation superiority appeared to be electrode system dependent. Furthermore, for a few individuals, biphasic waveform defibrillation proved less efficient than monophasic waveform defibrillation, regardless of the lead system used. 
Guillain-Barre syndrome associated with human immunodeficiency virus infection in Zimbabwe. We studied the clinical features and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serology of 32 consecutive adults with inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (IDP) admitted to the teaching hospitals in Harare, Zimbabwe. Twenty-nine of the IDP patients had Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS), and the other three had chronic IDP. Sixteen of 29 (55%) GBS patients were HIV-seropositive, a higher frequency of HIV infection than in blood donors drawn from the population served by these hospitals. All three chronic IDP patients were HIV-seronegative. In all HIV-seropositive patients, GBS was the initial illness that brought the patient to medical attention and led to the diagnosis of HIV infection. Compared with seronegative patients, the HIV-seropositive GBS patients were more likely to have generalized lymphadenopathy, CSF pleocytosis, coexistent CNS disturbance, and prior sexually transmitted disease. GBS in this region of Africa is frequently associated with HIV infection. 
Composition of atherosclerotic plaques in the four major epicardial coronary arteries in patients greater than or equal to 90 years of age. The composition of atherosclerotic plaques in 733 five-mm segments of the 4 major (left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex and right) epicardial coronary arteries of 18 patients greater than or equal to 90 years of age was determined by computerized planimetric analysis. By analysis of all coronary segments of all patients greater than 90, the plaques consisted primarily of fibrous tissue (87 +/- 8%) with calcific deposits (7 +/- 6%), pultaceous debris (5 +/- 4%) and foam cells (1 +/- 1%) occupying a much smaller percentage of plaque area. Analysis of composition according to the 4 degrees of luminal cross-sectional area narrowing revealed marked step-wise increases in pultaceous debris (from 0 +/- 0% at 0 to 25% narrowing to 18 +/- 22% at 76 to 100% narrowing, p = 0.0001) and calcific deposits (from 0 +/- 0 to 10 +/- 15%, p = 0.002), and decreases in fibrous tissue (from 99 +/- 3 to 71 +/- 23%, p = 0.0001) and area occupied by the media (from 35 +/- 8 to 16 +/- 8%, p = 0.0001). When the analysis was restricted to sections narrowed greater than 75%, no significant differences were found in plaque components or medial area between patients with (11 patients) and without (7 patients) myocardial infarcts at necropsy. 
Mortality among petrochemical science and engineering employees. This is a study of a dynamic cohort of 13 250 commercial research and development personnel for whom information on occupational and educational background and smoking was available. Their age-, sex-, race-, and period-adjusted death rates were compared with New Jersey rates and with an internal comparison population. The overall results were favorable. The study groups had significantly fewer deaths from most major disease categories compared with other New Jersey residents. Among white male scientists and engineers, age-adjusted overall mortality and ischemic heart disease mortality were comparable to white male managers and support staff studied, whereas mortality from leukemia and lymphatic cancer was significantly elevated. Mechanics, however, had a significantly lower leukemia and lymphatic cancer mortality rate than did the comparison group. In a Poisson regression model in which white males and females from the study population were used, and for which the effects of age, smoking, college education category, period of hire, and years employed were controlled, scientists, engineers, and research technicians had elevated (nonsignificantly) mortality rates for leukemia and lymphatic cancer compared with managers and support staff. Smoking was an independent risk factor for leukemia and lymphatic cancer. Further work is needed to assess if specific environmental factors, such as benzene, other aromatics, radiation, medical treatment, and smoking habits, might have contributed to the above findings. 
Extracolonic manifestations of the familial adenomatous polyposis syndromes. The classic prototypes of the gastrointestinal polyposis syndromes are familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome. Extracolonic manifestations have been described in both diseases, and the distinction between them has become less clear. In fact, some authorities have suggested that familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome may represent a spectrum of the same disease. In both conditions, extracolonic expressions are the rule rather than the exception, and familiarity with them is essential for accurate diagnosis and correct patient management. In this pictorial essay, we discuss familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome together under the heading familial adenomatous polyposis syndromes. The colonic characteristics of these syndromes will be reviewed briefly, followed by examples of the most common extracolonic manifestations. 
Electrophysiological improvement following decompression surgery in tarsal tunnel syndrome. Plantar nerve conduction studies 14 months to 3.5 years after decompression surgery in 3 cases of tarsal tunnel syndrome showed an improvement in motor conduction as well as in sensory nerve conduction. This electrophysiological improvement was associated with clinical improvement. However, minor abnormalities still existed in sensory nerve conduction in all 3 cases. 
SWIFT trial of delayed elective intervention v conservative treatment after thrombolysis with anistreplase in acute myocardial infarction. SWIFT (Should We Intervene Following Thrombolysis?) Trial Study Group. OBJECTIVE--To see whether early elective angiography with a view to coronary angioplasty or bypass grafting of a stenosed infarct related vessel would improve outcome in acute myocardial infarction treated by thrombolysis with anistreplase. DESIGN--Randomised study of two treatment strategies with analysis of results over 12 months. SETTING--21 district hospitals and regional cardiac centres in Britain and Ireland. SUBJECTS--800 of 993 patients presenting with clinical and electrocardiographic features of acute myocardial infarction up to three hours after the onset of major symptoms. TREATMENT STRATEGIES--Intravenous anistreplase 30 units followed by a standard regimen of heparin, warfarin, and timolol and (in patients so randomised) early angiography plus appropriate intervention. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Death or reinfarction within 12 months. RESULTS--397 patients were randomised to receive early angiography plus appropriate intervention (coronary angioplasty in 169 cases, coronary grafting in 59) and 403 patients to receive conservative care (of these, 12 had angioplasty and seven bypass grafting during the initial admission). By 12 months mortality (5.8% (23 patients) in the intervention group v 5.0% (20) in the conservative care group; p = 0.6) and rates of reinfarction (15.1% (60 patients) v 12.9% (52); p = 0.4) were similar in the two groups. No significant differences in rates of angina or rest pain were found at 12 months. Left ventricular ejection fraction at three and 12 months was the same in both groups. Median hospital stay was longer in the intervention group (11 days v 10 days; p less than 0.0001). CONCLUSION--For most patients given thrombolytic treatment for acute myocardial infarction a strategy of angiography and intervention is appropriate only when required for clinical indications. 
Calcium for resuscitation? Calcium ions are essential for myocardial excitation-contraction coupling and for increasing contractility of the heart. Because of these physiological effects, use of calcium has been recommended in the treatment of electromechanical dissociation, asystole and ventricular fibrillation. Recently, however, the use of calcium during cardiac arrest has come into dispute, as there are no controlled clinical trials supporting a favourable haemodynamic effect. It has rather been suggested that, in resuscitation, calcium may have detrimental effects. In order to evaluate the role of calcium in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, it is important to know the serum concentrations of calcium and the haemodynamic effects in this situation. Measurements in some patients with cardiac arrest have demonstrated that severe hypocalcaemia may not be uncommon. In these patients, calcium may augment myocardial contractility, decrease intracardiac filling pressures and increase mean arterial pressure. At present, the more or less established indications for use of calcium during cardiopulmonary resuscitation are in treating patients with proven hypocalcaemia, hyperkalaemia, calcium channel blocker overdose and, possibly, electromechanical dissociation combined with a wide QRS complex. There is no good evidence supporting the routine use of calcium in resuscitation. 
Natural course of Graves' disease after subtotal thyroidectomy and management of patients with postoperative thyroid dysfunction. The Natural course of Graves' disease after subtotal thyroidectomy was studied in 67 patients who had subtotal thyroidectomy for Graves' disease and did not receive any medical treatment for 8 to 12 years after surgery. Postoperative thyroid status was determined by serum free thyroxine (T4), free triiodothyronine (T3), and thyrotropin (TSH) levels in the first period (1 year after surgery), second period (3.9 +/- 1.0 years), and third period (8.8 +/- 1.5 years). Serum thyroid stimulating antibody (TSAb) and TSH binding inhibitor immunoglobulin (TBII) activities were also measured. A total of 53 patients (79%) changed thyroid status during the observation period. One year after surgery, 50 percent of euthyroid subjects developed abnormal thyroid function in the next period. Reversible latent hypothyroidism was the most common type of thyroid dysfunction seen in up to 46% of patients. Interestingly, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism that developed in the postoperative period were temporary disorders in most cases. Serum TSAb and TBII activities did not help predict the postoperative changes of thyroid status. Our study indicates that the instability of the thyroid function is common after subtotal thyroidectomy. 
Plasma prostanoids in neonates with pulmonary hypertension treated with conventional therapy and with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Thromboxane may be a mediator of pulmonary hypertension in the neonate. Acute thromboxane-mediated pulmonary hypertension has been described in sheep receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, which raises concerns about a potential thromboxane-mediated exacerbation of pulmonary hypertension in human neonates with severe pulmonary hypertension who are treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We measured plasma levels of thromboxane, prostaglandin F2 alpha, and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha in infants with pulmonary hypertension, some of whom were treated medically and some of whom were treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Plasma levels of all three prostanoids were elevated in infants with pulmonary hypertension and decreased with time, whether the neonates were treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or with medical management alone. In infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, we collected samples simultaneously from preoxygenator sites, postoxygenator sites, and umbilical artery catheter. We could demonstrate no significant difference in plasma prostanoid levels across the oxygenator. In two patients, plasma thromboxane and prostaglandin F2 alpha levels measured shortly after a platelet transfusion were distinctly higher in the umbilical artery catheter than in venous samples. 
Median and ulnar neuropathy after streptokinase infusion. In a patient treated with intravenous streptokinase, inflammation developed at the infusion site followed by permanent ulnar and median neuropathy. Although adverse streptokinase infusion site reactions have been reported to the Food and Drug Administration, no other cases have been reported in the medical literature. We suggest that extravasated streptokinase may produce permanent ulnar and median neuropathy. 
Ki-1-positive large cell lymphomas, a heterogenous group of neoplasms. Morphologic, immunophenotypic, genotypic, and clinical features of 24 cases. Clinical and pathologic features of 24 patients with large cell lymphomas that expressed the activation antigen Ki-1 are described. Phenotypic and/or genotypic studies characterized these neoplasms as T-cell (16 cases), B-cell (six cases), or null cell (two cases) type. Males predominantly were affected. Age of patients ranged from 19 to 73 years, with a bimodal distribution, with peaks in the third and seventh decades. Lymphadenopathy was present in nearly all patients. Extranodal involvement, including skin, soft tissue, bone, central nervous system, lung, or small intestine was observed in a total of 54% of the patients, either at presentation or during the course of disease. "Prototypic" features of large cell anaplastic lymphomas were observed for eight T-cell lymphomas, with morphologic heterogeneity noted for the remainder. Eight patients, all with T-cell neoplasms (only one with prototypic morphology), have died of lymphoma (median survival, 5 months). An antecedent history of a lymphoproliferative disorder (mycosis fungoides, B-cell lymphoma, immunoblastic lymphadenopathy) was apparent in seven patients. An 8-year history of Crohn's disease occurred in one patient with a T-cell lymphoma involving small intestine. Phenotypically, loss of one or more markers was typically noted for T-cell neoplasms. Leukocyte common antigen was detected in all cases, although partial loss of immunoreactivity was noticed in some cases. Nearly all cases evaluated for Ia antigen or alpha-1-antichymotrysin were reactive. Eleven of 16 T-cell, two of six B-cell, and two null cell lymphomas expressed epithelial membrane antigen. Ki-1-positive large cell lymphomas are characterized by clinical, morphologic, and immunophenotypic heterogeneity. 
Isoflurane anesthesia and myocardial ischemia: comparative risk versus sufentanil anesthesia in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The SPI (Study of Perioperative Ischemia) Research Group. Whether isoflurane has the potential to produce coronary artery steal and associated myocardial ischemia is still controversial. Previous studies addressing this issue in humans did not purposefully control hemodynamics or use continuous measures of myocardial ischemia. The authors used transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and continuous Holter electrocardiography (ECG) to study the relative risk of myocardial ischemia during isoflurane or sufentanil anesthesia under strict control of hemodynamics in 186 high-risk patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. Overall, hemodynamics were well controlled (increased heart rate = 9.8%; increased systolic blood pressure = 7.1%; decreased systolic blood pressure = 10.8% of total prebypass time compared with preoperative baseline values), with no difference between the two anesthetics. In the 162 patients with interpretable TEE recordings, moderate to severe TEE ischemic episodes (grade change greater than or equal to 2) developed in 33 (21%) during the prebypass period, with no difference between isoflurane (12 of 56 = 21%) and sufentanil (21 of 106 = 20%) (P = 0.97). The duration and severity of TEE episodes were not significantly different between the two groups. No correlation was observed between TEE ischemic episodes and isoflurane concentrations (range 0.47-1.75%). In the 181 patients with interpretable ECG recordings, ECG evidence of ischemia developed in 34 (19%) during the prebypass period, with no difference between isoflurane (12 of 59 = 20%) and sufentanil (22 of 122 = 18%) (P = 0.87). The duration and severity of electrocardiographic ischemic episodes were also similar in patients receiving either isoflurane or sufentanil. Four of the 62 patients (6%) who received isoflurane had an adverse cardiac outcome versus 15 of 124 patients (12%) who received sufentanil (P = 0.34). The authors' findings demonstrate that, when hemodynamics are controlled, the incidence of myocardial ischemia (TEE or ECG) during isoflurane and sufentanil anesthesia is similar. 
Multisystem failure and hepatic microvesicular fatty metamorphosis associated with tolmetin ingestion. Multisystem toxicity including both renal and hepatic failure has been reported with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We report a fatal case of multisystem failure associated with tolmetin ingestion in a 15-year-old girl. Microvesicular fatty change was found in the liver at autopsy. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-associated multisystem failure to have this histopathologic finding. 
Effect of antitumor surgery on soluble interleukin-2 receptor serum levels. Surgically induced immunosuppression may play a role in cancer, because of the possible existence of micrometastases at the time of surgical removal of tumors. Antitumor immune reactions are mediated by interleukin-2 (IL-2). IL-2 acts on a specific IL-2 cell surface receptor; moreover, a soluble form of IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) can be released in the blood. This study was carried out to evaluate the effect of surgery on sIL-2R serum levels in patients with operable solid tumors. A total of 48 patients with cancer and 11 controls who underwent major surgery for non-neoplastic disease were evaluated before and 7 days after surgery. Serum mean levels of sIL-2R were significantly higher after than before surgery in both the cancer and control groups. No correlation was seen between surgery-induced changes in sIL-2R and in T lymphocyte subsets. Because of its capacity of binding to IL-2, the increased blood concentrations of sIL-2R could reduce the IL-2 availability and negatively affect antitumor immune reactions. 
Computed tomography for patient management in coronary artery disease. Computed tomography (CT) represents the optimum theoretical approach to x-ray imaging. This conclusion results from an awareness of CT's capacity to solve the fundamental limitation of all forms of x-ray imaging--the superimposition of anatomic structures. Because CT is potentially a fully three-dimensional method, this problem is addressed in a manner not subject to the risks, complications, and technical limitations of selective angiography, subtraction angiography, tomography, and other techniques. Ultrafast CT provides a broad spectrum of useful quantitative cardiac data during one minimally invasive procedure. Therefore, the optimism for cine CT imaging of the heart is well founded. Apart from the demonstration of anatomic structures in any reconstructed plane and in movie format, without the need for any form of electrocardiographic gating, this new generation of millisecond CT scanners offers a unique potential for measuring myocardial mechanics and perfusion. Myocardial integrity can be evaluated by measuring myocardial wall thickening, which is a sensitive indicator of blood flow. It can also be assessed by time-density changes derived from analyzing the passage of contrast medium through thin slices of myocardium. Feasibility studies have demonstrated that this should be possible in the clinical setting by use of fast CT scanning. The radiation exposure to the patient with cine CT is low and comparable to, or less than, that of conventional CT and 10-15% of that received during angiocardiography; therefore, it is not a practical limitation. Further clinical and research studies are needed to determine the future role of this exciting new modality in the diagnosis and management of patients with heart disease. 
Propranolol in the management of recurrent migraine: a meta-analytic review. We used meta-analytic statistical techniques to synthesize findings from studies that evaluated propranolol HCI for the prevention of recurrent migraine (2,403 treated patients). The modal migraine sufferer treated in these studies was a female, about 37 years of age, who suffered from common (rather than classical) migraines and reported a 17-year history of problem migraines. The modal treatment was 160 mg. propranolol per day. Meta-analysis revealed that, on average, propranolol yielded a 44% reduction in migraine activity when daily headache recordings were used to assess treatment outcome, and a 65% reduction in migraine activity when less conservative measures (e.g., clinical ratings of improvement, global patient reports) were used. Meta-analysis thus revealed substantial support for short-term effectiveness of propranolol. However, little information was available concerning the long-term effectiveness of propranolol. 
Large vessel vasculitis of the central nervous system in systemic lupus erythematosus: report and review of the literature. Large vessel vasculitis rarely involves the central nervous system in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. We describe an exemplary case, along with its dramatic cerebral angiogram, and review the literature on this unusual entity. 
Squamous cell carcinoma occurring in the wall of a chronic aspergilloma. An aspergilloma that occurred within an area of bronchiectasis in a 52 year old man persisted for 12 years despite medical and surgical treatment. A squamous cell carcinoma developed in the wall of the cavity. 
DNA ploidy patterns of tumors diagnosed as metachronous or recurrent lung cancers. The relationship between the first tumor and the second tumor resected in 8 patients with non-small cell lung cancer was analyzed using deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) flow cytometry. Of the 8 patients, 6 were clinically diagnosed as having metachronous lung cancers and 2, local recurrent tumors. The mean interval between operations in patients with metachronous lung cancers was 62 months (range, 15 to 128 months). Both tumors showed the same histology in 4 patients and a different histology in 2. In the 2 patients with local recurrent tumors, the interval between operations was 9 months and 39 months. In the analysis of DNA flow cytometry of the first and second tumors in the same patient, the tumors were defined as independent of each other when one tumor showed diploidy and the other, aneuploidy, or when each DNA index of abnormal clones between two aneuploid tumors was different. When both tumors showed diploidy or when at least one DNA index of abnormal clones between two aneuploid tumors was identical, the tumors were defined to be related to each other. According to these criteria, in 5 (83%) of the 6 patients clinically diagnosed as having metachronous lung cancers, the second tumor was classified as independent of the first tumor. On the other hand, in the 2 patients clinically diagnosed as having recurrent tumors, the second tumor was judged to be related to the first tumor. These data suggest that DNA flow cytometric analysis of tumors may be of value in the diagnosis of metachronous lung cancers. 
Intravenous nitroglycerine in the management of posttreatment hypertension during electroconvulsive therapy. Intravenous nitroglycerine is not described in the psychiatric literature for management of the inevitable and potentially dangerous pressor response encountered in electroconvulsive treatment. However, the anesthesia literature has documented the use of nitroglycerine for the management of similar catecholamine-based hypertension. Unlike other approaches, nitroglycerine creates a controlled, significant, brief vasodilatation after convulsive treatment accompanied by desirable coronary vasodilatation without increased cardiac stress. A review of a series of treatments in which this technique was used confirms the clinical efficacy and safety of this approach. 
Raised exercise diastolic blood pressure as indicator of ischaemic left ventricular dysfunction. 91 (16.8%) of 541 consecutive patients investigated for chest pain or after recent uncomplicated myocardial infarction had a rise in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of more than 15 mm Hg during a symptom-limited treadmill test. 63 also had electrocardiographic evidence of ischaemia, but 28 did not have 1 mm ST segment depression, of whom 24 had angiographic evidence of more than 70% stenosis of two or more major coronary arteries. 55 of these 91 patients underwent coronary artery bypass surgery; repeat angiography in 22 at 12 months showed an improved left ventricular ejection fraction in 18 who had a normal postoperative DBP response, but no change in ejection fraction in the 4 who still had an abnormal rise in DBP on exercise. Exercise-induced ischaemia may cause a reversible fall in cardiac output that sometimes leads to reflex vasoconstriction and a rise in DBP before a fall in systolic blood pressure or ECG evidence of ST segment depression. An abnormal DBP response to exercise may identify some patients at high risk of myocardial infarction who might otherwise have false-negative exercise tests. 
The lack of relationship between hepatotoxicity and lithocholic-acid sulfation in biliary bile acids during chenodiol therapy in the National Cooperative Gallstone Study. To test whether hepatotoxicity occurring in National Cooperative Gallstone Study patients was caused by a toxic effect of chenodiol per se or of lithocholate caused by defective sulfation, bile samples were analyzed using a new high-performance liquid chromatography method that measures the proportions of the four individual lithocholate amidates (sulfated and unsulfated lithocholylglycine and lithocholyltaurine) and all common bile acid amidates. Samples were obtained from National Cooperative Gallstone Study patients (n = 17) with abnormal light microscopic liver biopsy results or major aminotransferase elevations and from a matched control group of patients (n = 14) who received similar chenodiol doses but had no evidence of liver injury. Bile samples from 45 healthy subjects were also analyzed. The analytical method was validated by showing that the percentage of chenodiol and cholic and deoxycholic acid obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography correlated highly (r greater than 0.94) with previous gas-liquid chromatography analyses of these samples by the National Cooperative Gallstone Study Reference Laboratory. No significant differences were seen between gallstone patients with and without evidence of liver injury for percent total lithocholate amidates, percent sulfated or unsulfated lithocholate amidates or percent chenodiol amidates. Lithocholate was partially sulfated in all bile samples (52% +/- 17% [mean +/- S.D., n = 50]), but the extent of sulfation varied widely between and within patients during the course of therapy. Mean values of healthy subjects were similar and also showed a wide range in the extent of lithocholate sulfation. It is concluded that (a) liver injury caused by these doses of chenodiol could not be attributed to the accumulation of unsulfated lithocholate per se in circulating bile acids; (b) liver injury appeared to be, directly or indirectly, caused by enrichment in circulating bile acids with chenodiol or chenodiol together with lithocholate, suggesting that the hepatocytes of those patients with hepatotoxicity were injured by the change induced in bile-acid metabolism by the feeding of chenodiol; and (c) about half of lithocholate amidates in bile samples were sulfated, but the extent of sulfation was highly variable both in gallstone patients and healthy subjects. 
Effects of rigidity of an internal fixation device. A comprehensive biomechanical investigation. Internal fixation with instrumentation often accompanies surgical fusion to augment spinal stability, provide temporary fixation while the surgical fusion mass unites, and enhance postoperative mobilization of a patient. Some surgeons, however, feel that the existing plate-screw designs are too rigid and are the primary cause of "iatrogenic" adverse effects clinically observed. A three-part study, involving in vitro experimental protocol, analytical finite-element-based models, and an in vivo canine investigation, was undertaken to study the role of decreasing rigidity of a device on the biomechanical response of the stabilized segments. Two alternatives--the use of one variable screw placement (Steffee plate [unilateral, 1VSP model]) as opposed to two VSP plates (bilateral, 2VSP model) and two VSP plates with polymer washers placed in between the integral nut and plate (2MVSP model)--were considered for achieving a reduction in the rigidity of the conventional VSP system. The load-displacement data obtained from the in vitro experiments and the stress distributions within the stabilized and intact models predicted by the finite-element models revealed that the unilateral VSP system is less rigid and is likely to reduce stress shielding of the vertebral bodies compared with the 2VSP model. The undesirable effects associated with the use of the 1VSP plate system are the presence of coupled motions due to the inherent asymmetry and the likely inability to provide enough rigidity for decompression procedures requiring a complete excision of the disc. The use of two MVSP plates overcomes these deficiencies. 
Natural history of acquired renal cystic disease in dialysis patients: a prospective longitudinal CT study. Patients with end-stage kidney disease, particularly those treated with dialysis, develop proliferative processes in their native kidneys that result in the formation of multiple acquired renal cysts, renal adenomas, and carcinomas. Data about these abnormalities have been acquired mainly from retrospective studies. We undertook a longitudinal prospective study in which the native kidneys of 30 dialysis patients were surveyed by serial CT during a 7-year period to study the natural history of acquired renal cystic disease and the frequency of associated complications. Acquired cysts were seen in 87% of patients at the end of the study compared with 57% at the study's onset, and a significant increase was seen in mean renal volume with time. Five patients (17%) developed large hemorrhagic renal cysts and four (13%) developed large perinephric hematomas. Renal cell carcinomas developed in two patients (7%) without renal symptoms. One carcinoma invaded the renal capsule, but did not cause metastases. The other carcinoma was widely metastatic. Our findings are consistent with those of earlier studies documenting an increased prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients as compared with the general population. However, our conclusions are limited because the study sample is small and no control population was studied. We conclude that acquired renal cystic disease in dialysis patients is a progressive disorder often associated with cyst hemorrhage. Dialysis patients may also have an increased prevalence of renal cell carcinoma. 
Long-term nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug use and Helicobacter pylori infection. This study investigates whether patients who take nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs are more likely to have Helicobacter pylori gastritis than age-matched individuals who do not take nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, and whether patients who take nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs who are also infected with H. pylori are more likely to have dyspepsia, mucosal damage, or ulcers than those who are not infected. Two studies were performed, one serological and the other endoscopic, both in arthritis patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs chronically. The presence of H. pylori was identified with a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test. One hundred eighty-three patients participated in the serological study and 75 patients in the endoscopic study. The frequency of H. pylori infection increased with age, independent of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug use; the age-adjusted frequency of H. pylori infection in arthritis patients paralleled that of 351 asymptomatic individuals without arthritis. The frequency of H. pylori infection increased from 30.7% in age group 21-30 years to 73.4% in age group 61-75 years. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced mucosal injury, either hemorrhages or erosions, was more frequent in those without H. pylori infection than with infection (61% vs. 32% for hemorrhages and 57% vs. 34% for erosions for those without and with H. pylori infection; only the difference in the frequency of hemorrhages was significant, P less than 0.05). No difference was observed in the presence of dyspeptic symptoms between those with and without H. pylori infection. These data suggest that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced damage to the gastroduodenal mucosa does not increase the susceptibility to H. pylori infection. 
Prominent meningeal "tail sign" in a patient with a metastatic tumor. A prominent enhancement of the dura adjacent to meningiomas has been described as being pathognomonic of these tumors. We describe a case where a classic meningeal "tail sign" was associated with an extra-axial metastatic tumor attached to the tentorium. There was no tumor invasion of the dura. We conclude that this sign is nonspecific and can be seen with dural-based tumors other than meningiomas. 
Enhanced detection of intracardiac sources of cerebral emboli by transesophageal echocardiography. We performed transesophageal echocardiography in 50 consecutive hospitalized patients with recent transient ischemic attack or stroke of embolic origin to determine whether transesophageal echocardiography is more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography in detection of possible intracardiac sources of embolism. Twenty-six of 50 patients with a negative transthoracic echocardiogram for potential source of emboli had a transesophageal echocardiography study that demonstrated at least one intracardiac abnormality. Abnormalities noted by transesophageal echocardiography included five of 50 patients with either a left atrial or left atrial appendage clot, four patients with a patent foramen ovale, and nine patients with spontaneous echocardiographic contrast. In 11 of 50 patients with no other source of embolism, we found highly mobile filamentous strands on the mitral valve, which have not been described previously. These mitral valve echo strands may represent a fissured surface or fibrosis that can serve as a nidus for thrombus formation. We detected no unexpected left ventricular thrombus or left atrial myxoma. Factors significantly associated with a greater likelihood of a positive transesophageal echocardiography study included left atrial enlargement, atrial fibrillation, and a calcified or thickened mitral valve. Our study suggests that transesophageal echocardiography is a valuable addition to transthoracic echocardiography in investigating potential intracardiac sources of embolism. 
Incidental microvesicular steatosis due to valproic acid anticonvulsant therapy. Valproic acid has been implicated in at least 100 cases of fatal acute liver failure. Most cases have occurred in patients less than 10 yr old; however, at least seven have involved adults. Microvesicular steatosis has been uniformly observed, but its incidence in less severe liver disease and in asymptomatic patients receiving valproate is unknown. We report two patients receiving maintenance valproate, one with resolving acute hepatitis C and the other with chronic persistent hepatitis C, with incidental microvesicular steatosis demonstrated on oil-red O stains. We conclude that microvesicular steatosis does not necessarily signify hepatotoxicity in patients on chronic valproic acid, and should not lead to discontinuation of the drug until other causes of acute or chronic liver disease have been excluded. 
Safety and efficacy of alfentanil and halothane in paediatric surgical patients. Alfentanil, a congener of the opioid fentanyl, possesses properties that make it an attractive choice for use during short operative procedures. Since the pharmacodynamic aspects of alfentanil have not been well documented in children, this study was undertaken to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and dose requirements of alfentanil when used with nitrous oxide or halothane in paediatric patients. Eighty unpremedicated patients, ASA physical status I or II and aged 2-12 yr were studied. Patients were randomly assigned to one of four groups. After induction of anaesthesia with nitrous oxide, oxygen, and halothane, the groups were treated as follows. In Group 1 (n = 19), after halothane was discontinued, alfentanil 50 micrograms.kg-1 was infused over 30 sec. In Group 2 (n = 20), the end-tidal halothan was maintained at 0.5% and alfentanil 25 micrograms.kg-1 was infused. In Group 3 (n = 20), the end-tidal halothane concentration was maintained at 1% and alfentanil 12.5 micrograms.kg-1 was infused. In Group 4 (n = 21), the end-tidal halothane concentration was maintained at 1.5% and no alfentanil was administered. Patients in Groups 1, 2, and 3 received bolus doses of alfentanil 12.5 micrograms.kg-1 as needed to maintain haemodynamic stability. After alfentanil administration, there were transient decreases in systolic blood pressure in Groups 1 and 2, and in heart rate in Group 2. With surgical stimulation, haemodynamic stability was well maintained except in patients in Group 1, who had an increase in systolic blood pressure. Children Group 1 were alert sooner and their tracheas were extubated earlier than those in Groups 2, 3, and 4. 
Effect of propofol on the incidence of postoperative vomiting after strabismus surgery in pediatric outpatients. Vomiting is a common problem after strabismus surgery in pediatric outpatients. We compared the effects of propofol with and without N2O and droperidol to the effects of a conventional regimen consisting of halothane-N2O-droperidol on the recovery characteristics and the incidence of postoperative emesis after strabismus surgery in 120 ASA physical status 1 or 2 children. After induction of anesthesia with halothane-N2O, patients were randomly assigned to one of four groups. Group A (control) received halothane, 66% N2O, and droperidol 75 micrograms.kg-1; group B, propofol 2 mg.kg-1 bolus followed by infusion of 160 microgram.kg-1.min-1; group C, propofol (as in group B) and 66% N2O; and group D, propofol (as in group B), 66% N2O (as in group C), and droperidol 75 micrograms.kg-1. Patients in group B had more episodes of intraoperative oculocardiac reflex responses than patients in group A, but had shorter times to extubation, oral intake, ambulation, and discharge, as well as a lower incidence of postoperative emesis (P less than 0.05). The addition of N2O to the propofol anesthetic regimen (group C) was associated with an increased incidence of emesis (P less than 0.05), whereas the addition of droperidol to the propofol-N2O regimen (group D) did not affect the incidence of emesis compared to the other three groups. We conclude that maintenance of anesthesia with a total intravenous regimen using propofol results in a more rapid recovery and less postoperative emesis than with a halothane-N2O-droperidol regimen. 
Choledocholithiasis. Endoscopic sphincterotomy or common bile duct exploration. A prospective randomized trial was conducted of preoperative endoscopic sphincterotomy and surgery (ES&S) or surgery alone (SA) in 52 patients with cholecystolithiasis and choledocholithiasis that were candidates for elective surgery. After ES&S 65% of patients were stone free. Eighty-eight per cent of patients with SA were stone free after surgery (p less than 0.05). Three patients in each group had residual stones at the completion of the operation. Five of these six had more than 20 common bile duct (CBD) stones. There was one episode of major hemorrhage in a patient in each group and no deaths. Costs were essentially equal for the individual patient with a successful ES as compared to SA. Societal costs of a program of preoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and ES would be higher because of the cost of screening for patients with CBD stones. These results do not support preoperative ES as a technique for clearance of the CBD of stones on the basis of efficacy, morbidity rate, or cost. 
Inoperable recurrence after breast-conserving surgical treatment and radiotherapy. Factors associated with inoperable local recurrence were investigated by a clinical and pathologic review of 596 patients with Stages I and II carcinoma of the breast treated by breast-conserving operations and megavoltage radiotherapy. After a median follow-up period of 71 months, 13 of 70 local recurrences observed were anatomically unsuitable for salvage surgical treatment, affecting 2.2 per cent of patients initially treated. In most, inoperable recurrences clinically resembled primary inflammatory carcinoma of the breast. All inoperable failures occurred in patients with invasive ductal carcinoma and were associated with the presence of unfavorable prognostic features (positive nodes, histologic grade 3, negative estrogen receptor, vascular invasion and lymphocytic stromal reaction). Despite doxorubicin-based chemotherapy, prognosis after inoperable recurrence was quite poor, although survival time in excess of two years was seen in receptor positive, lower grade recurrent tumors in which treatment included hormone therapy. 
Exophytic signet-ring cell carcinoma of the colorectum Previous studies have assessed colorectal signet-ring cell carcinomas of the linitis plastica variant but not of the exophytic subtype. We retrospectively reviewed 20 cases of colorectal signet-ring cell carcinoma of the exophytic subtype (greater than 50% signet-ring cells). The patients ranged in age from 14 to 79 years (mean, 51.8 years); 10 were male; 17 were white; and three were black. Ten tumors were colonic (eight, right sided; two, left sided) and 10 were rectal; seven were stage B and 12 were stage C. One patient presented with distant metastases. Eleven of 16 tumors assessed by flow cytometry were diploid. Parenchymal hepatic metastases developed in only two patients. The overall 5-year survival rate was 36%, and matched cases did not vary significantly in survival from typical nonmucinous adenocarcinomas. There was a trend toward poorer survival for patients with advanced-stage tumor. Survival was not affected by primary site, ploidy, presence of vascular/lymphatic invasion or residual adenoma, or percentage of extracellular mucin or signet-ring cells. Our cases were somewhat lower stage than literature cases of signet-ring cell carcinoma of the lintis plastica variant. 
The relationship between MMPI cluster membership and diagnostic category in headache patients. Only one study has examined MMPI cluster profiles in the headache population. The present study expanded on this previous investigation by using a large sample size (N = 485) and a greater number of diagnostic categories. The five MMPI clusters replicated previous findings in the chronic pain literature. These MMPI cluster groups were compared to 5 diagnostic categories (migraine, cluster, post-trauma, tension, mixed). No relationship was found between cluster type and headache diagnosis. While the diagnostic groups were found to differ on measures of pain severity, sex and age, cluster groups did not. It is proposed that MMPI scale types reflect a patient's response to pain and are more likely to be the result of coping resources than headache-related personality style. Future research with additional, non-pain populations and prospective studies is suggested. 
Skin acceptance of transcutaneous nitroglycerin patches: a prospective study of 33 patients. Transdermal nitroglycerin is commonly used and may induce contact dermatitis. The frequency of adverse skin reactions is controversial and may vary from 10% to 75%, according to various authors. 33 patients using transdermal nitroglycerin for more than 7 days were examined and patch tested (nitroglycerin 0.5% aq., 2% pet. and TTS in toto). 5 patients (15%) had adverse reactions. The patch tests were all negative in the 33 patients. Contact dermatitis occurs in many cases, about 15% of the cases with the newly available TTS, and even if patients respect the conditions for using TTS. These contact dermatitides are mainly irritant reactions and do not require transdermal nitroglycerin treatment to be stopped. Nevertheless, since some cases of allergic contact dermatitis have been reported, a contact dermatitis from transdermal nitroglycerin should lead to patch testing. 
Intravascular papillary endothelial hyperplasia of superior vena cava: a rare cause of the superior vena cava syndrome. The superior vena cava syndrome associated with an intraluminal vascular proliferative lesion is extremely rare. A case of intravascular papillary endothelial hyperplasia of the superior vena cava causing obstructive symptoms is reported that was successfully managed by surgical excision. 
Pancytopenia associated with hypothermia. This is the first report of pancytopenia associated with moderate hypothermia occurring in an elderly patient, where no other etiologic or associated factors could account for the hematologic abnormalities found. Reversible pancytopenia should be added to the list of hematologic abnormalities that can be seen in patients with hypothermia. 
The decline of mortality due to stroke: a competitive and deterministic perspective. Although stroke mortality has been declining since the first part of this century, the rate of decline increased sharply during the early 1970s. The basis for the fall in stroke mortality is often attributed to effective management of risk factors, particularly hypertension. However, some investigators have questioned whether risk factor reduction alone can adequately account for the magnitude of the recent decline in stroke mortality. When viewed from the perspective of competitive and deterministic mortality dynamics, the major force decreasing stroke mortality is the decreasing deterministic competitiveness of stroke and the increasing deterministic competitiveness of various malignant neoplasms and degenerative diseases as causes of mortality. These reciprocal trends are a natural consequence of the competitive deterministic mortality dynamics which describe these diseases in an environment that is becoming more conducive to human survival. The competitive nature of human mortality makes drawing etiopathogenic conclusions based upon single disease mortality data hazardous. 
Clinical course of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in children Previous studies in adults with dilated cardiomyopathy suggest that the presence of arrhythmia, especially ventricular tachycardia, correlates with increased mortality. We performed a retrospective analysis of 63 children with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to determine the prognostic significance of arrhythmias and other findings with respect to mortality. The mean age at diagnosis of the cardiomyopathy was 4.96 +/- 5.3 years. The overall mortality rate was 16% over a 10 year follow-up period. Persistent congestive heart failure and ST-T wave changes correlated with increased mortality (p less than 0.05). No other variables affected outcome. Arrhythmias were found in 46% of the patients; of the arrhythmias, 48% were atrial arrhythmias. Ventricular tachycardia was present in six patients. Death occurred in 4 (14%) of 29 patients with known arrhythmia; 1 of the 5 died suddenly. The remaining 6 deaths in the series occurred in the 34 patients without a documented arrhythmia. It is concluded that 1) arrhythmias are frequently seen in children with dilated cardiomyopathy but are not predictive of outcome; 2) sudden death in children with this disease is rare; and 3) persistent congestive heart failure portends a poor prognosis. 
Bleeding complications following initiation of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: a comparison of helicopter-transported and nontransported patients. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of helicopter transport of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients after initiation of thrombolysis on bleeding complications through hospital discharge. DESIGN: Prospectively identified incidence (cohort) study. SETTING: Air medical service of tertiary-care teaching hospital. TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: Ninety-five consecutive AMI patients transported within 12 hours of the initiation of thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator were compared with 119 nontransported AMI patients treated in a similar manner. RESULTS: The transported and nontransported populations were similar with regard to age, sex, and infarct location. Transport was well tolerated with no episodes of cardiac arrest or cardioversion occurring during transport. Hypotension requiring fluids or increased pressors occurred in 18 patients. Bleeding complications of all types occurred in 43.2% of the transported and 49.6% of the nontransported patients, respectively (relative risk, 0.87; 95% confidence interval, 0.65 to 1.17). CONCLUSION: Helicopter transport of AMI patients after initiation of thrombolysis appears to be safe acutely and without a clinically significant increase in risk of bleeding complications through hospital discharge when accomplished by a highly skilled team. 
Strongyloides stercoralis hyperinfection and central nervous system involvement in a patient with relapsing polychondritis. Infections caused by Strongyloides stercoralis are not uncommon in the United States. Because of the many different manifestations of hyperinfection with this nematode, a high index of suspicion is essential, especially in immunocompromised patients, for whom such infections are frequently fatal. Patients originating from endemic areas and those who have traveled to such areas, even in the distant past, should have the possibility of strongyloidiasis evaluated before initiation of immunosuppressive therapy. Once considered, the diagnosis is not difficult and can be accomplished using readily available techniques and methods. Although thiabendazole has a high incidence of side effects and may not always eradicate infection, it remains the drug of choice for disseminated strongyloidiasis. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian arteries: long-term results in 52 patients. We studied the long-term results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian artery in treating stenosis (43 patients) or occlusion (nine patients). In all 52 patients, the blood pressure before treatment in the arm on the involved side was at least 30 mm Hg lower than that in the opposite arm. Thirty-nine patients (75%) had symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency (dizziness, blurred vision, ataxia). Angioplasty was successful in 40 (93%) of 43 patients with stenosis and in five (56%) of nine patients with occlusion. In the successfully treated patients, follow-up angiograms showed absence of narrowing greater than 30% stenosis, and the blood pressure in the treated arm equaled that in the opposite arm. The patients were followed up for 6-48 months (mean, 29 months). During this time, the blood pressure in the treated arm remained normal in 41 (91%) of 45 patients. The symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency subsided in 28 (72%) of 39 patients. These results suggest that percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is useful for treating subclavian artery stenosis or occlusion. 
The growth hormone, prolactin and TSH response to TRH and L-dopa in patients with hyperprolactinaemia and a normal-sized sella turcica may denote a pituitary adenoma. Forty-one patients with hyperprolactinaemia and suspected prolactinomas were studied. Growth hormone (GH) and thyrotropin (TSH) secretory patterns after thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) were affected in the majority of patients. The disturbances were observed regardless of tumour size as indicated by the radiological sella size. In patients with hyperprolactinaemia and normal-sized sella turcica, an abnormal GH and TSH response to TRH can be helpful in the diagnosis of a microadenoma. The hyperprolactinaemia per se and its effect on dopaminergic hypothalamic neurones may be the cause of the GH and TSH response. By contrast, many patients with macroprolactinomas showed insufficient GH secretory capacity. 
Complications following ventilation of the middle ear using Goode T tubes. This is a 3.5-year retrospective review on the insertion of 210 Goode T tubes into 182 ears of 93 patients. Otorrhea was noted postoperatively in 35.2% of the ears treated, with chronic drainage lasting longer than 4 months developing in more than 7% of the cases. Perforations were found in 34 ears (18.7%) following removal or extrusion of the T tubes; in 13 (7.1%) of these patients, chronic perforations requiring tympanoplasties developed. The literature was screened for additional studies addressing the complications associated with tympanostomy tubes. The documented incidence of perforations between conventional tubes and Goode T tubes was emphasized, and comparisons were made. Our findings indicate that, even with the immediate placement of paper patches following removal of all Goode T tubes, the percentage of tympanic membrane perforations resulting from the use of Goode T tubes is significantly greater than previously reported. 
Gut bacterial translocation via the portal vein: a clinical perspective with major torso trauma. Animal studies implicate gut bacterial translocation via the portal vein as a major factor in the pathogenesis of postinjury multiple organ failure (MOF). We therefore inserted portal vein catheters for sequential blood sampling in the operating room, at 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours, and 5 days postoperatively in 20 injured patients (13 blunt, seven penetrating; mean age, 34 years) requiring emergent laparotomy and who were at known risk for MOF. The mean Revised Trauma Score was 6.4 +/- 0.4, and the Injury Severity Score, 29.3 +/- 2.3. Twelve (60%) patients arrived in shock (SBP less than 90 torr). Eight (2%) of 212 portal blood cultures were positive; seven were presumed contaminants. The only positive systemic culture (total, 212) was a Staphylococcus aureus on day 5 in a patient with a concurrent staphyloccal pneumonia. In the first 48 hours, we could not detect endotoxin in portal or systemic blood. Additionally, simultaneous portal and systemic blood levels of complement fragment C3a, tumor necrosis factor, and interleukin-6 were nearly identical and, specifically, were not different in those patients who developed MOF. In summary, this prospective clinical study has not confirmed portal or systemic bacteremia within the first 5 days postinjury, despite an eventual 30% incidence of MOF. 
Gallbladder function and gastric liquid emptying in achalasia. Because of evidence that the abnormalities in achalasia are not restricted to the distal esophagus, we investigated gallbladder function by cholescintigraphy in the steady state and in response to CCK and the scintigraphic gastric emptying of a liquid caloric meal in 10 individuals with achalasia and 10 normal controls. No abnormalities were found during the filling phase of the gallbladder but seven of the 10 patients showed a 50% reduction in the ejection fraction (39.4% +/- 30.4 vs 80.3 +/- 8.3 of controls, mean +/- SD, P = 0.007) and a slower than normal ejection phase (9.1%/min +/- 6.6 vs 18.1 +/- 4.5, P = 0.02. In eight of the 10 patients, gastric liquid emptying was accelerated with a T1/2 of 41.5 min +/- 15.4 vs 74.7 min +/- 11.5 in the controls (P = 0.007). It is concluded that in some achalasia patients extraesophageal functional abnormalities of the gastrointestinal tract may be found. Whether these findings are promoted by degenerative charges of extraesophageal nerve fibers as well as their clinical significance require further investigations. 
Detection of mediastinitis after heart transplantation by gallium-67 scintigraphy. We report the findings of a patient with post-cardiac transplant mediastinitis detected by 67Ga-citrate imaging. Fever and leukocytosis were the first clinical signs suggesting infection. The usual diagnostic modalities, including CT and ultrasound, failed to identify the site of infection. A 67Ga scan showed intense abnormal uptake behind the sternum. The site of uptake was shown by necropsy to be necrotic tissue involving cardiac sutures, pulmonary arteries, and the aorta due to infection with Haemophilus aphrophilus. 
Gallbladder and pancreatic metastases from bilateral renal carcinoma presenting with hematobilia and anemia. A case of bilateral metachronous renal cell carcinoma with gallbladder and pancreatic metastases, presenting with hematobilia and anemia is presented. The presentation of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with hematobilia and anemia is previously unreported. This case illustrates (1) the occasionally very long interval between metachronous renal carcinoma; (2) this tumor's propensity to unusual metastases and unpredictable presentation; and (3) the significant palliation which may be achieved by appropriate surgical resection of these metastases. 
Uveal melanoma: development of metastases after helium ion irradiation. Forty-two (16%) of 261 patients with ocular melanoma who were treated with helium ions between January 1978 and November 1986 have developed metastatic disease. The time between start of helium ion treatment and recognition of metastatic disease ranged from 3 to 67 months (median, 27 months). The mean pretreatment tumor height in the patients with metastases was 7.7 mm. All 42 patients who developed metastatic disease have died. The median survival after diagnosis of metastatic disease was 5 months; the longest survival was 49 months. The most common site of metastasis was the liver (n = 34). Four (10%) of the 42 patients with metastases also had local recurrence of the tumor. Multivariate analysis identified three variables that predicted independently the development of metastases and lack of survival. These variables are anterior location of tumor (P = .027), tumor height greater than 5 mm (P = .02), and tumor diameter greater than 10 mm (P = .0075). 
Abnormal coronary vasoconstriction as a predictor of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty in patients with unstable angina pectoris. BACKGROUND. High rates of restenosis after coronary angioplasty have been reported in patients with vasospastic angina. This study was designed to determine whether the occurrence of abnormal coronary vasoconstriction, detected by means of hyperventilation testing before angioplasty, influences the risk of restenosis after successful dilation. METHODS. Hyperventilation testing was performed 0 to 4 days before coronary angioplasty in 106 consecutive patients with unstable angina and single-vessel coronary artery disease. Abnormal coronary vasoconstriction was considered present if hyperventilation-induced myocardial ischemia occurred during the recovery phase of the test. All patients had follow-up angiography 8 to 12 months after angioplasty. RESULTS. Abnormal coronary vasoconstriction was observed in 48 patients (group 1), whereas 58 patients (group 2) had either a negative response throughout the test or a positive response only during the overbreathing phase of the hyperventilation test. Angioplasty was successful in 40 patients in group 1 and 51 in group 2. Restenosis was documented in 29 patients (73 percent) in group 1 and 13 (25 percent) in group 2 (relative risk of restenosis, 2.84; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.69 to 4.28; P less than 0.001). In a multivariate analysis, the following three characteristics were independently related to the risk of restenosis (in descending order of importance): ST-segment elevation during spontaneous ischemic attacks (P less than 0.001), hyperventilation-induced abnormal coronary vasoconstriction (P less than 0.001), and the presence of a lesion more than 10 mm long in the left anterior descending coronary artery (P less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. In patients with unstable angina and single-vessel coronary artery disease who have been selected for coronary angioplasty, the presence of hyperventilation-induced abnormal coronary vasoconstriction identifies a subgroup at high risk for restenosis. 
Somatosensory evoked potentials in intracranial hypertension: analysis of the effects of hypoxia. The loss of somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP's) was investigated in a feline model of intracranial hypertension. Threshold values of cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) required for maintenance of SSEP's are defined using a mathematical model. The model describes loss of amplitude of SSEP's using the form of a dose-response curve. Amplitude of the SSEP's declined to 50% of control values at a CBF of 15 ml/100 gm/min and a CPP of 20 mm Hg in the normoxic animal; in the presence of mild hypoxia (8 to 9 kPa), a significant increase in these values to 18 ml/100 gm/min and 32 mm Hg, respectively, occurred. No reliable changes in latency or central conduction time were demonstrated. It is concluded that given adequate oxygenation, evoked electrical activity is lost at too low a level of CPP for this parameter to be useful in clinical monitoring. However, even mild hypoxia, when combined with intracranial hypertension, produces a major risk to neuronal integrity. 
Intermediate-term effectiveness of balloon valvuloplasty for congenital aortic stenosis. A prospective follow-up study. BACKGROUND. Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has proven to be acutely effective in the treatment of congenital valvar aortic stenosis; however, the intermediate- and long-term effectiveness of the procedure remain to be documented. METHODS AND RESULTS. To assess the intermediate-term effectiveness of balloon valvuloplasty, repeat catheterization was performed in 27 of 30 children 1.7 +/- 0.1 years after balloon valvuloplasty for congenital aortic stenosis (AS). In 33 children the peak AS gradient was reduced acutely by 55% from 77 +/- 4 to 35 +/- 3 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and left ventricular systolic pressure was reduced from 176 +/- 4 to 138 +/- 4 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Despite a technically adequate valvuloplasty procedure, three patients had inadequate relief of obstruction and required complex surgical intervention. Twenty-seven of the 30 patients available for late reevaluation (90%) enrolled in the follow-up study. The peak AS gradient remained significantly reduced compared with that present before valvuloplasty (29 +/- 3 versus 77 +/- 4 mm Hg, p less than 0.001). Furthermore, there was no difference in peak AS gradient at follow-up compared with that immediately after valvuloplasty. The greatest increase in gradient at reevaluation was 14 mm Hg. Twenty of 27 patients (74%) had no change in the degree of aortic insufficiency at follow-up compared with that present before valvuloplasty. At follow-up, 16 patients had no aortic insufficiency at all, and only two had moderate-to-severe (3-4+) insufficiency. Femoral artery injury was documented in four patients, three of whom were under 12 months of age at valvuloplasty. CONCLUSIONS. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty provides safe and effective intermediate-term gradient relief without early restenosis in children and adolescents with congenital AS. 
A pilot study of fluticasone propionate in untreated coeliac disease. Although gluten withdrawal is likely to remain the mainstay of treatment for adult coeliac disease, many patients find the diet inconvenient and unpalatable and compliance among asymptomatic patients is often poor. Oral corticosteroids have been used for patients who seem to be resistant to gluten withdrawal but preparations with low systemic bioavailability might be preferable. We have given a new glucocorticoid (fluticasone propionate) to 12 adults with untreated coeliac disease for six weeks while they were on a normal diet. One patient defaulted and one suffered a relapse in a pre-existing neoplasm. Excluding these, there was an improvement of symptoms, a mean weight gain of 2 kg, and a rise in albumin of 5.4 g/l. There was a significant improvement in the lactulose/mannitol excretion ratio (p less than 0.05) and in all histological variables examined in paired biopsy specimens (surface and crypt intraepithelial lymphocyte/enterocyte and goblet cell/enterocyte ratios and enterocyte height, p less than 0.01 or better). In six paired specimens sucrase and alkaline phosphatase activity increased in all (p less than 0.05) and lactase in five of six. No appreciable side effects were observed, but two patients had suppressed cortisol values and synacthen responses at six weeks. A further three, with normal pretrial results, had a blunted tetracosactrin response at six weeks. Fluticasone propionate seems worthy of further assessment in the treatment of coeliac disease as an adjunct to gluten withdrawal. 
Fetal cardiovascular morphology of truncus arteriosus with or without truncal valve insufficiency in the rat. BACKGROUND. Recent advances in fetal echocardiography have necessitated further study on fetal in situ cardiovascular morphology of truncus arteriosus and the effects of truncal valve insufficiency. METHODS AND RESULTS. We studied 55 fetal rats with truncus arteriosus among 300 fetuses from 40 virgin females treated with 200 mg fertilysin on the 10th day of pregnancy. After rapid whole-body freezing on the 21st day, the fetuses were studied by means of serial cross-sectional photographs of the frozen thorax. Thirty-five fetuses with a normal heart treated with fertilysin served as controls. Truncus arteriosus was characterized by a large ventricular septal defect, a solitary artery (truncus arteriosus) overriding the ventricular septum, the right and left pulmonary arteries originating from the truncus arteriosus with or without a common trunk (main pulmonary artery), and absent ductus arteriosus. Fetuses with truncal valve insufficiency had thick truncal valves, a large truncus arteriosus, and large ventricles. The subgroup of 12 fetuses with a large truncus (truncal diameter greater than 160% of the ascending aorta diameter in the controls) showed significantly greater values for right ventricular volume (200% of control) and mass (120% of control), left ventricular volume (170% of control) and mass (110% of control), right (120% of control) and left (110% of control) atrial volume, and pericardial fluid (140% of control) than the controls. These changes were less prominent and ventricular volumes were not increased in the remaining subgroup with a truncal diameter of 160% or less of aorta diameter in the controls. CONCLUSIONS. In fetal truncus arteriosus, truncal valve insufficiency was associated with increased ventricular volume load and incomplete cardiac compensation in rats. 
Maffucci's syndrome associated with intracranial enchondroma and aneurysm: case report. Maffucci's syndrome is a rare, congenital mesodermal dysplasia combined with dyschondroplasia and hemangiomatosis. Enchondromatous involvement of the skull bones is rare in this syndrome. A rare case of Maffucci's syndrome associated with enchondroma at the skull base, left internal carotid artery aneurysm, and goiter is reported. Two other previously reported cases of Maffucci's syndrome with associated aneurysms and the present case suggest that Maffucci's syndrome may be associated with aneurysm. 
Myotonia and neuromuscular transmission in the mouse. The role of neuromuscular transmission and acetylcholine receptors in the phenotypic expression of hereditary myotonia was reinvestigated in two mutants of the mouse, ADR (adr/adr) and MTO (adrmto/adrmto). Three neuromuscular blockers, curare, flaxedil, and alpha-bungarotoxin, did not prevent mechanical myotonia of EDL and soleus muscles from the two mutants. Furthermore, electrical myotonia was demonstrated in isolated ADR muscle fibers devoid of nerve endings. We conclude that neither release nor reception of acetylcholine are important for the mechanism of myotonia in mouse mutants. The previously described suppression of myotonic aftercontractions by high concentrations of curare (Muscle & Nerve 1987;10:293-298) could not be reproduced; rather, a prolongation of aftercontractions was found. The other drugs had no significant effect on myotonic aftercontractions. Because neuromuscular transmission is not involved in human myotonias, this result supports the use of myotonic mice as a model, at least for recessive generalized myotonia (Becker). 
Accuracy of computer-interpreted electrocardiography in selecting patients for thrombolytic therapy. MITI Project Investigators. A prehospital computer-interpreted electrocardiogram (ECG) was obtained in 1,189 patients with chest pain of suspected cardiac origin during an ongoing trial of prehospital thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Electrocardiograms were performed by paramedics 1.5 +/- 1.2 h after the onset of symptoms. Of 391 patients with evidence of acute myocardial infarction, 202 (52%) were identified as having ST segment elevation (acute injury) by the computer-interpreted ECG compared with 259 (66%) by an electrocardiographer (p less than 0.001). Of 798 patients with chest pain but no infarction, 785 (98%) were appropriately excluded by computer compared with 757 (95%) by an electrocardiographer (p less than 0.001). The positive predictive value of the computer- and physician-interpreted ECG was, respectively, 94% and 86% and the negative predictive value was 81% and 85%. Prehospital screening of possible candidates for thrombolytic therapy with the aid of a computerized ECG is feasible, highly specific and with further enhancement can speed the care of all patients with acute myocardial infarction. 
In vivo measurements of the fraction of dose of bleomycin labeled with cobalt 57 delivered to human tumors. Concentrations of bleomycin labeled with cobalt 57 (Co-bleo) over time were measured in vivo in 17 patients with 32 sites of lymphoma and 18 patients with lung tumors after administration of the same dose of bleomycin. There were marked variations in individual tumor drug concentrations even among tumors with the same histologic type, indicating that the tumor concentration of this drug in individuals cannot be predicted from the administered dose. Also, tumor concentration could not be predicted from the area under the concentration over time curve (AUC) of Co-bleo in the blood; there was no correlation (r = 0.53) between the AUC and the concentration in the tumor at any point in time between 30 minutes and 8 hours after injection. There was no significant difference in the percent of the injected dose per milliliter (%ID/ml) which was delivered to the tumor when low and high amounts of bleomycin were administered to the same patient. Also, a good correlation (r = 0.88) between the %ID/ml over time was found when injection of low and high doses of bleomycin were compared. The results indicate that using quantitative single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and a labeled tracer dose it is possible to predict what fraction of the dose of a chemotherapeutic drug will concentrate in an individual patient's tumor in vivo. They also show that, for bleomycin, escalation of dose will result in a proportional increase of tumor concentration. This increase depends on individual properties of tumors which can be measured quantitatively in vivo by SPECT and are expressed as percent of %ID/ml of tumor tissue. 
Miosis and internal ophthalmoplegia as a manifestation of partial seizures. We present a patient whose only physical manifestation of a partial sensory seizure was bilateral pupillary constriction and internal ophthalmoplegia. The onset and offset of each attack corresponded distinctly with an electroencephalographic discharge of the left temporo-occipital region. We propose involvement of a cortical pupillary constrictive center in the temporal-occipital area. 
Non-Menkes-type copper deficiency with regression, lactic acidosis, and granulocytopenia. A 2-year-old girl with granulocytopenia developed fever followed by truncal ataxia and progressive neurologic regression. CT demonstrated symmetric low-density areas in the cerebral white matter. Sural nerve biopsy revealed axonal degeneration. Blood lactate levels were high, and serum levels of copper and ceruloplasmin and urinary excretion of copper were low. Cultured skin fibroblasts showed normal copper uptake. Treatment with oral copper administration normalized serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels, blood lactate levels, and granulocyte count. However, copper levels in the CSF were still low, and the patient showed no clinical improvement. We speculated that copper transport across the intestinal wall and across the blood-brain barrier was impaired. 
Risk factors for candidemia in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia. Between 1983 and 1987 the overall incidence of candidemia at the Institut Gustave Roussy, a tertiary care referral hospital for patients with cancer, increased from 0.1% (7 of 6,801) to 0.32% (24 of 7,515) (P = .009). Because acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) was the most common underlying disease in patients with candidemia, risk factors for candidemia were analyzed in this subset of patients. A case-control study comparing the eight ALL patients who had candidemia with 18 ALL control patients revealed that previous bacteremia, prolonged neutropenia, prolonged fever, prolonged administration of antimicrobial agents, treatment with multiple antimicrobial agents, and a relatively high concentration of Candida organisms in stool were significant risk factors for candidemia. In a logistic regression analysis, however, only receipt of vancomycin and/or imipenem was identified as an independent risk factor for candidemia. Further analysis showed that administration of vancomycin promoted proliferation of Candida organisms in the gastrointestinal tract and that this proliferation was associated with an increased risk of candidemia. 
The effects of alcohol on the female brain: a neuropathological study. This quantitative neuropathological study compared the brains of seventeen alcoholic females with twenty non-alcoholic female controls. There was a significant (P less than 0.001) increase in the pericerebral space value (control 9.5; alcoholic 16.3) indicating shrinkage of the brain. Cerebral grey and white matter volumes were determined morphometrically. There was a significant decrease in the cerebral white matter volume (P less than .02) in the alcoholics. The cerebral grey matter volume was unchanged. These changes parallel those described previously in male alcoholics. Further studies will be necessary to establish the relative severity of the brain damage in males and females. 
Perirenal lipoma versus renal cell carcinoma. Pure renal and perirenal lipomas are rare. They arise from renal cortex, capsule, or perirenal tissue, and may be difficult to distinguish from renal adenocarcinomas. We report on a patient who presented with a renal mass that had the radiologic findings suggestive of a renal cell carcinoma, but proved to be a simple lipoma. 
Natural history of recurrent urinary tract infections in women. To evaluate the natural history of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in women, we observed 51 infection-prone women in a standardized fashion for a median of 9 years. During intervals when patients were not receiving antimicrobial prophylaxis, infections occurred at an average rate of 2.6 per patient-year, but the rate varied widely from patient to patient (range 0.3-7.6 episodes per year). Seventy-three percent of the observed episodes were symptomatic, with an 18:1 ratio of cystitis to pyelonephritis episodes. Infectious episodes were strikingly clustered, and rates of infection decreased in the winter months. Antimicrobial prophylaxis was highly effective in preventing acute cystitis, asymptomatic bacteriuria, and acute pyelonephritis, even when used for as long as 5 years. The proportions of infecting strains resistant in vitro to ampicillin (19%-32%) and nitrofurantoin (5%-18%) were unchanged over the 15-year observation period, while resistance to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole increased in the last 5 years of the study. 
Effect of enalapril on survival in patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fractions and congestive heart failure. The SOLVD Investigators BACKGROUND. Patients with congestive heart failure have a high mortality rate and are also hospitalized frequently. We studied the effect of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, on mortality and hospitalization in patients with chronic heart failure and ejection fractions less than or equal to 0.35. METHODS. Patients receiving conventional treatment for heart failure were randomly assigned to receive either placebo (n = 1284) or enalapril (n = 1285) at doses of 2.5 to 20 mg per day in a double-bind trial. Approximately 90 percent of the patients were in New York Heart Association functional classes II and III. The follow-up averaged 41.4 months. RESULTS. There were 510 deaths in the placebo group (39.7 percent), as compared with 452 in the enalapril group (35.2 percent) (reduction in risk, 16 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 5 to 26 percent; P = 0.0036). Although reductions in mortality were observed in several categories of cardiac deaths, the largest reduction occurred among the deaths attributed to progressive heart failure (251 in the placebo group vs. 209 in the enalapril group; reduction in risk, 22 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 6 to 35 percent). There was little apparent effect of treatment on deaths classified as due to arrhythmia without pump failure. Fewer patients died or were hospitalized for worsening heart failure (736 in the placebo group and 613 in the enalapril group; risk reduction, 26 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 18 to 34 percent; P less than 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS. The addition of enalapril to conventional therapy significantly reduced mortality and hospitalizations for heart failure in patients with chronic congestive heart failure and reduced ejection fractions. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in the elderly: early and long-term results. The immediate and long-term efficacy of coronary angioplasty in the elderly was determined by studying 752 patients greater than or equal to 65 years old and comparing patients greater than or equal to 75 years old with those 65 to 74 years old. The oldest patients were more highly symptomatic, were more likely to be in heart failure, had more multivessel disease and were more likely to undergo multivessel dilation. The immediate success rate of angioplasty was higher in the oldest patients (92.8% versus 82%) (p = 0.0003). The hospital mortality rate was also higher (6.2% versus 1.6%) (p less than 0.001). Long-term overall survival was high. However, long-term event-free survival was lowest in the oldest patients, and recurrent severe angina was particularly common. Thus, in very elderly patients, coronary angioplasty is usually successful, but extra caution is warranted; also, long-term relief from angina is less common than in younger patients. 
Patients with a high defibrillation threshold: clinical characteristics, management, and outcome. Of 125 patients prepared to receive implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) with the patch-patch configuration of the difibrillating electrodes, 23 (18%) had high (greater than or equal to 25 joules) defibrillation thresholds (DFTs). These patients had lower left ventricular ejection fractions (27 +/- 12 vs 34 +/- 13; p less than 0.03) and a higher incidence of previous heart surgery (47% vs 19%; p less than 0.01) than patients with normal DFTs but did not differ in age, type of heart disease, incidence of concomitant heart surgery, or use of antiarrhythmic medication. Defibrillators were implanted in 18 of these 23 patients, 12 during the initial surgery and six after repeat DFT testing 2 weeks later. After 22 +/- 11 months of follow-up, four patients with ICDs died (two suddenly, and two of nonsudden cardiac causes). Two patients without ICDs died of nonsudden cardiac causes. Appropriate shocks were received by five patients (29%) including both who died suddenly later. A high DFT may be more common than previously stated. It is associated with poor ventricular function and previous heart surgery. Repeated DFT testing may be useful in some patients. A high DFT does not preclude successful ICD shocks, but other therapies may provide better results. 
Calcium oxalate microcalcifications in the breast. Calcium oxalate calcifications can be difficult to detect with routine histologic procedures. In the reported case, microcalcifications that were evident with radiography of the specimen and of the paraffin blocks could not be detected with light microscopy. Polarized light microscopy, however, revealed the calcifications to be calcium oxalate crystals. Use of polarized light microscopy may resolve radiologic-pathologic discrepancies in such cases. 
Effect of a new monoclonal antibody, TA-2, that inhibits lymphocyte adherence to cytokine stimulated endothelium in the rat. An important event in the migration of lymphocytes out of the blood is their adherence to endothelial cells (EC). In inflammatory sites cytokines activate EC and promote lymphocyte EC adherence and migration. Small peritoneal exudate lymphocytes (sPEL) preferentially migrate from the blood to cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions and to sites injected with IFN-gamma, IFN-alpha/beta, and TNF-alpha, rather than to peripheral lymph nodes. The basis of this migration is sPEL adherence to cytokine-activated EC. To study this adhesion mAb to rat sPEL were screened for inhibition of sPEL adherence to IFN-gamma-stimulated EC. One mAb, TA-2, inhibited IFN-gamma-stimulated adherence to EC by 60%. This antibody had no effect on the baseline adherence of sPEL to unstimulated EC. Treatment of sPEL, but not EC, with TA-2-inhibited adhesion. TA-2 also inhibited adhesion to EC activated with mIL-1 alpha, TNF-alpha, and LPS, and the adhesion of spleen T cells to activated EC. The TA-2 Ag was expressed on virtually all lymph node, spleen, and sPEL lymphocytes but sPEL expressed two to three times higher levels than lymph node lymphocytes, and the highest levels were found on CD4+ and CD45R- memory T cells. TA-2 immunoprecipitated a group of four polypeptides with molecular mass of 150, 130, 83, and 66 kDa. Finally, TA-2 inhibited sPEL adhesion to TNF-alpha and IL-1 stimulated human umbilical vein EC to the same extent as an anti-human VCAM-1 mAb, and combinations of TA-2 and anti-VCAM-1 were not different from treatment with either antibody alone. Thus, TA-2 appears to recognize rat VLA-4 based on immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, and lymphocyte EC studies. VLA-4 mediates the adhesion of rat lymphocytes to rat microvascular EC stimulated with IFN-gamma, mIL-1 alpha, TNF-alpha, and LPS. VLA-4 is important in the increased adhesion of sPEL to EC and the enhanced sPEL migration to inflammation may in part be explained by increased expression of VLA-4 on these cells. 
The significance of circulating cells carrying t(14;18) in long remission from follicular lymphoma Peripheral blood mononuclear cell fractions from 15 patients in continuous clinical remission from follicular lymphoma for longer than 10 years were examined for cells carrying the t(14;18) translocation using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The assay used was able to detect one positive cell in approximately 5 x 10(5) cells (a single 14q+ molecule in 2.5 micrograms DNA). Cells positive for t(14;18) were found in six of eight patients initially presenting with stage III or IV disease, compared with zero of seven of those with stage I or II disease (P less than .05). In two cases 14q+ junction regions were also successfully amplified from formalin-fixed biopsy material obtained at presentation 12 and 17 years previously. In both, sequence analysis demonstrated that the cells circulating in remission belonged to the original clone. These results indicate that cells bearing t(14;18) frequently persist in the peripheral blood in long remission of advanced follicular lymphoma and question the value of their presence as a predictor of relapse. 
Prevention of adult heart disease beginning in childhood: intervention programs. Multiple strategies are available to affect children's cardiovascular health. From clinic-based high-risk counseling to broad-based school or community programs, intervention strategies are being developed and tested to find the most effective means of changing the risk factors of youth to assure a healthier future for our children. Since adoption of new behaviors is improved by consistent messages from multiple sources, a concerted effort is needed. The involvement of health professionals, educators, community organizations, industry, and government together will be important to support the adoption of healthy lifestyles for succeeding generations. Intervention through cardiovascular health promotion for school children may well be the future direction for preventive cardiology. 
A new surgical classification system for shoulder-girdle resections. Analysis of 38 patients. A new, six-stage surgical classification system is described for shoulder-girdle resections for patients being treated by limb-sparing procedures for bone and soft-tissue tumors. The classification is based upon current concepts of oncological surgery, the structures removed, the type of resection performed, and the relationship of the resection to the glenohumeral joint, and it indicates the increasing surgical magnitude of the procedure. Data from 38 patients with an average follow-up period of 4.6 years (range, two to 8.4 years) were analyzed. Thirty-two tumors were in bone and six in soft tissue. Eighty-seven percent (33 of the 38 tumors) were malignant. Twenty-four lesions were located in the proximal humerus and 14 in the scapula. The system permitted classification of all shoulder girdle resections done in this study's institutions. The classification is proposed as a means of establishing a uniform terminology in the comparison of such data. 
Antibiotic prophylaxis of wound infections in skin surgery A controlled prospective study of 2165 outpatients undergoing skin surgery was performed to evaluate the utility and the effects of several antibiotic schedules for prophylaxis of wound infections. The patients were divided into four groups. Twenty-three of the 541 group A patients, given no antibiotics, had wound infections. Eight of the 542 group B patients, given systemic antibiotics from immediately after surgery until the third day, had wound infections. Four of the 540 group C patients, treated only with local sterile antibiotic powder sprinkled into the wound during surgery, had wound infections develop, and only one infection occurred in the 542 group D patients given systemic antibiotics from 2 days before surgery until the second day after surgery. This last schedule was the best for prophylaxis of wound infections in contamination-prone regions. Local antibiotic administration is a simple method for prevention of infections in routine skin surgery. 
Coexistent hemangioblastoma and arteriovenous malformation of the cerebellum. Case report. A case of cerebellar hemangioblastoma and coexistent arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is presented. Angiography displayed the AVM, but histological examination revealed a coexisting hemangioblastoma. Various theories concerning the etiology of this condition are discussed. 
PET study of carbon-11-PK 11195 binding to peripheral type benzodiazepine sites in glioblastoma: a case report. The utility of the peripheral type benzodiazepine site ligand 11C-PK 11195, for imaging human glioma in conjunction with Positron Emission Tomography, relies on a high specific binding of the tracer to tumoral peripheral type benzodiazepines sites. In a patient with glioblastoma, we found that 11C-PK 11195 binding was two-fold higher in the tumor than in normal gray matter and that 30% of tumoral binding could be displaced by a large excess of unlabeled drug. These findings suggest that tumoral retention of the ligand is due, in part, to specific binding. 
Myocardial lactate dehydrogenase and its isoenzyme activities in transplanted human hearts. Lactate dehydrogenase and its heart (H) and muscle (M) subunit activities were studied in right ventricular endomyocardial biopsies from eight transplanted human hearts and compared with five chronically failing hearts and six normal human hearts from brain-dead liver/kidney donors. Of the 17 transplant biopsies (taken 5-95 weeks postoperatively), only two showed histologic signs of chronic rejection: They were excluded from the group analysis. A higher proportion of the M subunit of lactate dehydrogenase (M%) was found in the transplanted and the chronically failing hearts than in the normal hearts, presumably reflecting increased myocardial anaerobic glycolytic stress. In the early post-transplantation period, M% was higher in the transplanted than in the chronically failing hearts. Thereafter M% gradually fell, but had not reached normal levels 1-2 years after transplantation. During that time it was similar to the values in the chronic-failure hearts. In the two biopsies with chronic rejection, M% was nearly twice as high as in contemporaneous biopsies showing mild or no rejection. Monitoring of enzymatic adaptation from endomyocardial biopsies may be of clinical interest. 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation decreases lower esophageal sphincter pressure in patients with achalasia. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is believed to be an inhibitory neurotransmitter responsible for lower esophageal sphincter (LES) relaxation. In patients with achalasia the concentration of VIP and the number of VIP-containing nerve fibers are reduced or absent. It has been suggested that the response to low-frequency transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) may be mediated by a nonadrenergic noncholinergic pathway in which the release of VIP is responsible for the smooth muscle relaxation. The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of TENS on LES pressure and on VIP plasma concentrations in six patients with achalasia (five female, one male). TENS was performed daily during one week for 45-min sessions with a pocket stimulator that delivered low-frequency pulses (6.5 Hz), at 10 pulses/sec of 0.1-msec duration at intensities of 10-20 mA until rhythmic flexion of the fingers was obtained without producing pain. LES pressure and VIP levels were obtained before TENS, after the first 45-min session, and after a week of daily stimulation. After 45-min, TENS produced a significant reduction (P less than 0.01) in LES resting pressure from the mean value 56 +/- 6.4 mm Hg to 42.3 +/- 6.4 mm Hg; with LES relaxation improvement from 50.6 +/- 3% to 63.1 +/- 3.2% (P less than 0.01). After one week of daily TENS, an additional reduction in LES resting pressure (40.3 +/- 4 mm Hg) was observed (P less than 0.01). 
Epibulbar choristoma and microphthalmia: a report of two cases. The simultaneous ipsilateral presence of an epibulbar choristoma and microphthalmia has rarely been reported. We present two such cases, one of which is associated with bone formation, and we consider a possible pathogenetic mechanism. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the choroid plexus in Sjogren's disease. We report an unusual case of inflammatory pseudotumor of the choroid plexus of the right lateral ventricle, manifesting as an intraventricular mass and causing unilateral hydrocephalus in a 48-year-old man who suffered from Sjogren's disease and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The lesion obliterated the normal choroidal architecture by a mixed chronic inflammatory process that was associated with reactive connective tissue changes. Immunohistochemical studies showed no light-chain restriction in the cells, and residual islands of transthyretin-positive epithelial cells were identified, implicating the choroid plexus origin of the mass. 
An economic evaluation of lovastatin for cholesterol lowering and coronary artery disease reduction. The costs and benefits of cholesterol lowering in the primary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD) were considered using lifetime lovastatin therapy as the intervention model for adults between 35 and 55 years of age. The analysis projected the benefits of CAD risk reduction using estimates from the Framingham Heart Study. The chosen analytic perspective was that of the patient. For average-risk men with total serum cholesterol levels between 5.69 and 9.83 mmol/liter (220 and 380 mg/dl), the cost per life-year saved ranged from $9,000 to $106,000, whereas for average-risk women, the cost ranged from $35,000 to $297,000 (1989 U.S. dollars). In high-risk men (with smoking habit and hypertension), the cost per life-year saved values ranged from 6,000 to $53,000, whereas in high-risk women the cost per life-year saved values ranged from $19,000 to $160,000. The results were more favorable than those found in previous studies of alternate medication therapies for hypercholesterolemia. Even using conservative parameter assumptions, at least 800,000 Americans aged 35 to 55 years are at sufficiently high risk for CAD, so that the net cost of lovastatin therapy can be favorably compared with other widely used medical interventions. 
Effect of age on use of thrombolytic therapy and mortality in acute myocardial infarction. The MITI Project Group. The findings in 3,256 consecutive patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction were tabulated to assess the history, treatments and outcome in the elderly; 1,848 patients (56%) were greater than 65 years of age, including 28% who were aged greater than or equal to 75 years. The incidence of prior angina, hypertension and heart failure (only 3% of patients less than 55 years of age had a history of heart failure compared with 24% greater than or equal to 75 years old) was found to increase with age. Twenty-nine percent of patients less than 75 years of age were treated with a systemic thrombolytic drug compared with only 5% of patients older than 75 years. Mortality rates increased strikingly with advanced age (less than 2% in patients less than or equal to 55, 4.6% in those 55 to 64, 12.3% in those 65 to 74 and 17.8% in those greater than or equal to 75 years). Both the incidence of complicating illness and a nondiagnostic electrocardiogram (ECG) increased with age. In a multivariate analysis of outcome in older patients (greater than or equal to 65 years), adverse events were related to both prior history of heart failure (odds ratio 3.9) and increasing age (odds ratio 1.4 per each decade of age). Outcome was not improved by treatment with thrombolytic drugs, but these agents were prescribed to only 12% of patients greater than 65 years of age, thereby reducing the power for detecting such an effect. 
Resection of intrinsic tumors from nondominant face motor cortex using stimulation mapping: report of two cases. We report two right-handed patients who underwent resection of intrinsic glial tumors from the nondominant hemisphere, face motor cortex. Both patients underwent preoperative assessment with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging localizing the tumor in the inferior region of the Rolandic cortex. With the patients under general anesthesia and without muscular paralysis, the tumor volume was determined by intraoperative ultrasound and resective surgery accomplished with the aid of cortical and subcortical stimulation mapping techniques. Radical resection of the tumor from the face motor cortex was achieved in both patients. A transient contralateral facial weakness and apraxia were noted in each patient, and this resolved within 6 to 8 weeks following surgery. Removal of intrinsic tumors involving the nondominant face motor cortex may be safely achieved using brain mapping techniques to localize inferior Rolandic cortex and avoid resection of the hand motor cortex and descending subcortical motor pathways. Permanent disability will be prevented due to the bilateral representation of face motor function at the neocortical level. However, due to language localization in cortical zones contiguous with the dominant hemisphere, face motor cortex, we do not recommend resection of this region. 
Transfusion-related chronic liver disease in sickle cell anemia. The medical records and liver biopsies of nine sickle cell patients with chronically elevated liver function tests were retrospectively reviewed to determine the etiology of chronic liver disease. There were eight women and one man with a mean age of 30 yr. All patients had hemoglobin SS. Eight patients were referred for elevated aminotransferases and one for an elevated alkaline phosphatase. Hemosiderosis was present in all of the biopsies. Two patients had cirrhosis. Chronic hepatitis was noted in two patients, and five patients had cholestasis. Two patients had serologic markers demonstrating HBV exposure but no patients were HBsAg positive. Erythrophagocytosis, sinusoidal dilatation, and Kupffer cell hyperplasia were present in all of the liver biopsies. Transfusion-related causes were the most common significant pathologic findings in our patients, and appeared to be the etiologies of chronic liver disease in sickle cell patients. 
Sinus bradycardia related to temporomandibular joint surgery. The carotid artery lies in close relationship to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). Manipulation of the mandible during TMJ surgery has been observed in several cases to be directly associated with the development of sinus bradycardia as the joint is distracted during arthrotomy and arthroplasty procedures. We report several cases and discuss differential diagnosis of sinus bradycardia associated with positional changes of the TMJ. This report emphasizes the importance to the surgeon and to the anesthesiologist of recognition of this cardiac phenomenon, mediated through the trigeminovagal reflex, to appropriately manage the patients during TMJ surgery. 
Resection of the inferior vena cava or intraluminal vena caval tumor thrombectomy during retroperitoneal lymph node dissection for metastatic germ cell cancer: indications and results. A total of 42 patients underwent inferior vena caval resection (40) or intraluminal tumor thrombectomy (2) during retroperitoneal lymph node dissection for bulky abdominal metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell cancer (7% of all post-chemotherapy retroperitoneal lymph node dissection cases). The 3 indications for vena caval resection included tumor clearance (38%), vena caval scar occlusion (14%) and vena caval tumor thrombus (48%). En bloc vena caval resection to achieve tumor clearance was justified by subsequent nodal pathology (cancer in 63% of the specimens and teratoma in 31%). Vena caval resection in the presence of scar occlusion was de facto required by virtue of its incorporation in the specimen. Vena caval resection or thrombectomy is indicated for intraluminal tumor thrombus because thrombus pathology (cancer 35%, teratoma 45% and fibrosis 20%) reflected nodal pathology in 71% of the patients with cancer, 78% with teratoma and 100% with fibrosis. The complications of vena caval resection were generally transitory. The 71% survival rate justifies this intensive surgical approach because these patients had exhausted all chemotherapy options. 
Effects of embolus size on hemodynamics and gas exchange in canine embolic pulmonary hypertension. We examined the effects of different-sized glass-bead embolization on pulmonary hemodynamics and gas exchange in 12 intact anesthetized dogs. Pulmonary hemodynamics were evaluated by multipoint pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa)/cardiac output (Q) plots before and 60 min after sufficient amounts of 100-microns (n = 6 dogs) or 1,000-microns (n = 6 dogs) glass beads to triple baseline Ppa were given and again 20 min after 5 mg/kg hydralazine in all the animals. Gas exchange was assessed using the multiple inert gas elimination technique in each of these experimental conditions. Embolization increased both the extrapolated pressure intercepts (by 6 mmHg) and the slopes (by 5 mmHg.l-1.min.m2) of the linear Ppa/Q plots, together with an 80% angiographic pulmonary vascular obstruction. These changes were not significantly different in the two subgroups of dogs. However, arterial PO2 was most decreased after the 100-microns beads, and arterial PCO2 was most increased after the 1,000-microns beads. Both bead sizes deteriorated the distribution of ventilation (VA)/perfusion (Q) ratios, with development of lung units with higher as well as with lower than normal VA/Q. Only 100-microns beads generated a shunt. Only 1,000-microns beads generated a high VA/Q mode and increased inert gas dead space. Hydralazine increased the shunt and decreased the slope of the Ppa/Q plots after 100-microns beads and had no effect after 1,000-microns beads. We conclude that in embolic pulmonary hypertension, Ppa/Q characteristics are unaffected by embolus size up to 1,000 microns. 
Anterograde amnesia with fornix damage following removal of IIIrd ventricle colloid cyst. Two patients developed anterograde amnesia following the apparently uncomplicated transcallosal-transventricular removal of a colloid cyst. Damage to the fornical columns was demonstrated on CT and MRI scans, whilst other memory related structures were entirely normal. Longitudinal neuropsychological evaluation, over 12-24 months, has revealed a very similar pattern of deficit in the two cases: verbal memory has remained persistently impaired whilst nonverbal anterograde memory has improved to some degree. Formal tests of remote public (famous faces and events) and personal autobiographical memory have supported the clinical impression that neither patient has a temporally extensive retrograde amnesia. These findings address the role of the fornix, and the dissociation of memory processes in humans. 
Hypertension in blacks: clinical overview. Although the decline in stroke and other cardiovascular morbid and mortal events has been occurring since the 1940s, the steeper decline since 1968 has been attributed to improved hypertension awareness, treatment, and control. However, in spite of this encouraging trend from the population in general, surveys from the 1970s and our more recent survey from the Maryland Hypertension Program indicate that hypertension control among blacks remains unacceptably poor, particularly in view of the high prevalence. Of special concern are black men, who have the highest prevalence of any group and the poorest control rate (see Tables 6-1 through 6-4). According to Gillum and Gillum, "High rates of non-compliance with follow-up and drug therapy seriously compromised the efforts of community-wide programs. Indeed, non-compliance with therapeutic or preventive health advice is now the major barrier to effective hypertension control in the United States." Impediments to ideal hypertension control in black communities can be divided into three categories 1. Severity of hypertension in blacks. 2. Barriers related to the medical care system, including inadequate financial resources (see also Chapter 5), inconveniently located health care facilities, long waiting times, and inaccessibility to health education, specifically as it relates to hypertension. 3. Barriers related to the social, psychosocial, and sociopolitical environment, which include problems of underemployment, unemployment, racism, and strained racial relationships. In summary, one could say that, in spite of generally improved hypertension control in the United States, the group that has the worse problems (blacks, especially males) is not benefiting as much as the general population. The strategy for treating black patients with hypertension is little different from that applied to all other patients. However, consideration must be given to the patients' lifestyle. The cultural differences in diet especially must be taken into account. Finally, economic considerations must always be an important component in managing black hypertensive patients. For a detailed discussion of treatment alternatives, see Chapter 11. 
Increase in atherosclerosis and adventitial mast cells in cocaine abusers: an alternative mechanism of cocaine-associated coronary vasospasm and thrombosis. Coronary vasospasm has been implicated as a cause of myocardial ischemia and sudden cardiac death in cocaine abusers. However, the mechanism or mechanisms remain unknown. Autopsy records (n = 5,871) from the medical examiner's files at Baltimore, Maryland and northern Virginia were examined and 495 persons (8.4%) were identified with positive toxicologic findings for cocaine. Of these, six subjects (1.2%) had total thrombotic occlusion, involving primarily the left anterior descending coronary artery. The mean number of adventitial mast cells per coronary segment and the degree of atherosclerosis were determined. These observations were compared with findings in age- and gender-matched subjects who died from cocaine overdose and in patients who had sudden cardiac death (acute thrombosis) without a history of illicit drug abuse. There were significantly more mast cells in subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis than in the other groups. The number of mast cells showed a significant correlation with the degree of cross-sectional luminal narrowing (r = 0.68) in subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis but not in subjects with sudden death due to thrombosis (r = 0.34, p less than 0.03). Subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis also had significant coronary atherosclerosis without plaque hemorrhage (five had one or more vessels with greater than 75% cross-sectional area luminal narrowing) despite a mean age of 29 +/- 2 years. These findings suggest that adventitial mast cells may potentiate atherosclerosis and vasospasm, thrombosis and premature sudden death in long-term cocaine abusers. 
Transesophageal Doppler echocardiography of pulmonary venous flow: a new marker of mitral regurgitation severity. Pulmonary venous flow varies with different cardiac conditions. Flow patterns in response to mitral regurgitation have not been well studied, but flows may vary enough to differentiate among different grades of regurgitation. Accordingly, pulmonary venous flow velocities were recorded in 50 consecutive patients referred for outpatient (n = 26) or intraoperative (mitral valve repair; n = 24) echocardiographic examination for mitral regurgitation. Recordings were made of right and left upper pulmonary veins with pulsed wave Doppler transesophageal echocardiography. Mitral regurgitation was graded from 1+ to 4+ by an independent observer using transesophageal color flow mapping. The results of cardiac catheterization performed 5 weeks earlier in 43 of the patients were also graded for mitral regurgitation by an independent observer. Pulmonary venous flow patterns, the presence of reversed systolic flow and peak systolic and diastolic flow velocities were compared with the severity of mitral regurgitation indicated by each technique. Of the 28 patients with 4+ regurgitation by transesophageal color flow mapping, 26 (93%) had reversed systolic flow. The sensitivity of reversed systolic flow in detecting 4+ mitral regurgitation by transesophageal color flow mapping was 93% and the specificity was 100%. The sensitivity and specificity of reversed systolic flow in detecting 4+ mitral regurgitation by cardiac catheterization were 86% and 81%, respectively. Discordant flows were observed in 9 (24%) of 38 patients; the left vein usually showed blunted systolic flow and the right showed reversed systolic flow. In 22 intraoperative patients, there was "normalization" of pulmonary venous systolic flow after mitral valve repair in the postcardiopulmonary bypass study compared with the prebypass study after the mitral regurgitant leak was corrected. 
Excision of exposed cartilage for management of Mohs surgery defects of the ear. Cartilage of the ear is often exposed during Mohs surgical procedures. Fenestration of the cartilage with a skin punch has been recommended to stimulate granulation tissue where the perichondrium has been destroyed. This article describes an alternative method--the excision of a window through the exposed cartilage, fully exposing the perichondrium on the other side of the cartilage. This promotes the rapid healing by second intention or provides a vascular bed for immediate skin grafting. Also, aggressive excision of nonviable cartilage helps prevent chondritis or perichondritis. 
Prognostic significance of a predischarge exercise test in risk stratification after unstable angina pectoris The prognostic significance of exercise testing was compared with clinical and electrocardiographic (ECG) variables in a prospective study of 107 patients with unstable angina discharged from the hospital on medical therapy. During a follow-up period of 12.8 +/- 1.4 months, 10 patients (9%) had a nonfatal myocardial infarction (n = 8) or died (n = 2) and 22 (20%) were readmitted with recurrent unstable angina. The relation between 20 clinical, ECG and exercise test variables and the risk of adverse outcome (death, nonfatal myocardial infarction or recurrent unstable angina) was analyzed using both univariate and multivariate (logistic regression) analysis. Univariate predictors of adverse outcome included diabetes mellitus, evolutionary T wave changes, T wave changes on the preexercise ECG and low maximal rate-pressure product during exercise. Independent predictors of adverse outcome in multivariate analysis included diabetes mellitus, evolutionary T wave changes after admission, rest pain during hospitalization, ST depression during exercise and low maximal rate-pressure product. A predictive model constructed using the regression equation and all independent predictors stratified patients into high and low risk groups (41% and 5% risk of adverse outcome, respectively). The result of a predischarge exercise test adds independent prognostic information to clinical and ECG data in medically treated patients with unstable angina and could be used in combination with clinical and ECG data to identify patients at risk of adverse events. 
The glucocorticoid hormone signal transduction pathway in mice homozygous for chromosomal deletions causing failure of cell type-specific inducible gene expression. Wild-type newborn mice are characterized by the ability of certain liver-specific genes encoding various enzymes and mapping on different chromosomes to respond to glucocorticoid induction. Newborn mice homozygous for deletions at and around the albino locus on chromosome 7 fail to develop this competence for hormone-inducible gene expression even through they do show normal constitutive expression of the same genes. Studies of the glucocorticoid hormone signal transduction pathway reported here show identical expression of glucocorticoid receptor mRNA and protein in deletion homozygotes and normal littermates. Furthermore, the receptor interacts normally with the 90-kDa heat shock protein hsp90. Elevated glucocorticoid hormone levels in newborn deletion homozygotes, most likely resulting from their stressed condition, provide an explanation for the reduced binding activities of receptors reported previously. The elimination of receptors and hormones as direct targets of the chromosomal deletion effects suggests that the failure of inducible gene expression might reside in defective competence of the affected structural genes to respond to the hormonal stimulus. 
Platelet antiaggregate activity. Calcium ions act as a second messenger to platelet agonists, with increases in intracellular calcium bringing about changes in shape, aggregation, and release reactions. Changes in platelet function have been reported previously in migraine sufferers and there is evidence that hyperaggregability occurs during a migraine attack. It was decided to assess platelet aggregation with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) from nicardipine-treated migraine sufferers because dihydropyridine derivatives are known to inhibit adenosine diphosphate (ADP)- and epinephrine-induced aggregation. Aggregation induced by 1.4 mumol/L arachidonic acid was similar in PRP from control subjects and untreated migraine sufferers, whereas 1 or 2 mumol/L ADP-induced aggregation was lower in PRP from migraine sufferers. Treatment with 20 mg of nicardipine three times daily for 2 months significantly (p less than 0.05) increased 2 mumol/L ADP-induced aggregation. It is concluded that nicardipine was acting either on migraine pathogenic mechanisms or directly on the platelets. 
Detection of Epstein-Barr virus sequences in Hodgkin's disease by the polymerase chain reaction. The authors examined paraffin-embedded lymph node biopsies from 65 cases of Hodgkin's disease for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA, using the highly sensitive polymerase chain reaction technique. Overall 40% of the cases were positive for EBV DNA; there were no statistically significant differences in the frequency of EBV positivity among the different subtypes of Hodgkin's disease. These results are in agreement with those of previous studies that employed less sensitive detection techniques and suggest that EBV either is present in pathologic tissues only in some phases of the evolution of Hodgkin's disease or is a pathogenetic factor involved in only a portion of cases. 
A comparison of the KTP/532-laser tonsillectomy vs. traditional dissection/snare tonsillectomy. This study compared tonsillectomy by potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP/532) laser with tonsillectomy by traditional dissection and snare. Eighty-three consecutive patients who were candidates for a tonsillectomy were randomly assigned to one of four groups in a prospective study. The four treatments were bilateral traditional dissection/snare tonsillectomy, bilateral KTP/532-laser tonsillectomy, left laser tonsillectomy and right dissection/snare tonsillectomy, and left dissection/snare tonsillectomy and right laser tonsillectomy. Intraoperative comparisons were made between the two methods with regard to blood loss and operating time. Postoperatively bleeding and healing time were also recorded. A questionnaire answered on a daily basis assessed the patient's pain. Disadvantages of the KTP/532 tonsillectomy included increased cost, increased total operating time as a result of increased setup time and laser malfunctions, delayed healing, and no statistically significant improvement in level of pain. The sole advantage associated with the KTP/532 laser tonsillectomy was decreased blood loss, which may be significant for patients with a coagulopathy. 
Dipyridamole thallium scanning in the evaluation of coronary artery disease in elective abdominal aortic surgery. Dipyridamole thallium scanning was routinely performed on 68 consecutive patients who presented for elective aortic surgery. All 68 patients were judged by clinical assessment to be at low risk for perioperative cardiac complications. In addition, 42 of 68 patients had a history of myocardial infarction, stable angina, or abnormal echocardiographic findings (group 1). Twenty-six of 68 patients did not have a history of myocardial infarction, angina, or abnormal echocardiographic findings (group 2). In group 1, 34 of 4 patients had positive results on dipyridamole thallium scanning, and 15 of these patients were found to have critical coronary artery disease on subsequent cardiac catheterization; nine underwent immediate coronary artery bypass grafting, and six had their coronary artery disease treated medically and their vascular operations cancelled. The remaining 27 patients in group 1 underwent elective operations, with six (22%) of 27 sustaining postoperative cardiac complications. None of the group 2 patients was found to have critical coronary artery disease. All patients in group 2 underwent aortic operation without cardiac complication. Routine dipyridamole thallium scanning detected a 22% (15 of 68) incidence of critical coronary artery disease overall. There was a 36% (15 of 42) incidence of critical coronary artery disease in group 1 patients vs 0% in group 2 patients (95% confidence interval, 21% to 50%). We conclude that the use of dipyridamole thallium scanning in low-risk patients for cardiac screening prior to elective aortic operations is beneficial in selected patients who have a history of myocardial infarction, angina, or abnormal echocardiographic findings, but is not necessary in patients with no history of coronary artery disease. 
Adhesion formation after ovarian electrocauterization on patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome. The rate of adhesion formation after ovarian electrocauterization has been described in two selective and unselective groups of patients with PCOS. The rate of this complication in the selective group was 0 from 16 ovaries and in the unselective group (5/25). However, the rate of major adnexal adhesion in the unselective group was 1 from 25 ovaries. 
Human fetal hepatocytes respond to inflammatory mediators and excrete bile. Under strict observation of the ethical guidelines of the 1975 Declaration of Helsinki Human Research Committee, primary hepatocyte cultures were prepared from second-trimester fetal liver specimens. We have shown for the first time that fetal hepatocytes have the capacity to produce an acute-phase response on treatment with inflammatory mediators. Addition of interleukin-6 to the cultures resulted in strong induction of C-reactive protein and alpha-1-antichymotrypsin expression, whereas albumin expression was repressed. In contrast to interleukin-6, transforming growth factor-beta did not induce C-reactive protein expression. However, as in adult hepatocytes, fetal cells responded to transforming growth factor-beta by reduced albumin synthesis. We were able to show by virtue of fluorescein excretion into sealed clefts that fetal hepatocytes have the functional capacity to form bile. Our findings indicate that second-trimester hepatocytes can be regarded as fairly mature liver cells. 
Aminoglycoside toxicity--a survey of retinal specialists. Implications for ocular use. Surveyed members of the Retina, Macula, and Vitreous Societies reported 93 cases of macular infarction they believed to be related to administration of gentamicin sulfate; five, to administration of amikacin sulfate; and three, to administration of tobramycin sulfate. Most cases of infarction after administration of gentamicin occurred in eyes that received an intravitreous injection of 0.4 mg after vitrectomy, but a surprisingly high number, 17, occurred after injection of 0.1 or 0.2 mg, doses that are considered safe by many ophthalmologists. Four additional cases of infarction occurred in eyes that did not undergo vitrectomy after injection of 0.1 or 0.2 mg. Four of the five cases related to administration of amikacin occurred after intravitreous injection of 0.4 mg, and one of these four occurred in an eye that did not undergo vitrectomy. Twenty-three cases of macular infarction occurred in eyes that were treated with prophylactic subconjunctival injections of aminoglycosides after routine ocular surgery. Responses from this survey suggest that aminoglycoside-induced retinal infarction is widely recognized and more common than indicated from the small number of cases reported in the literature. The role of aminoglycosides in the prophylaxis of ocular infections and the management of endophthalmitis should be reevaluated. 
Cerebrovascular regulation and neonatal brain injury. Neuropathology occurring as a result of hemodynamic injury occurs in up to 25% of preterm newborns of less than 1,500 gm birth weight and in a much smaller, but nonetheless meaningful, proportion of more mature infants. Abnormalities in cerebrovascular regulation have been proposed as major contributing factors to both ischemic and hemorrhagic injuries in the newborn brain. In this review we explore several factors that play a role in cerebrovascular regulation in the immature brain and relate them to what is known about vascular regulation in the mature brain and to the types of pathology that occur in the newborn brain. One goal in this "decade of the brain" should be to increase our basic and clinical knowledge about the cerebrovasculature of the newborn in order to enhance our ability to predict and prevent perinatal brain injury. 
Emergency intubation for paralysis of the uncooperative trauma patient. The impact of paralysis followed by intubation was studied in patients who had been traumatized and subsequently admitted to Lehigh Valley Hospital Center. Trauma admission records between January 1987 and June 1988 were reviewed. Fifty-seven patients, intubated for control of agitation and combativeness, were divided into high injury severity (HIS) and low injury severity (LIS) subgroups using admission trauma (TS) and injury severity scores (ISS). Thirty-eight (70%) were classified as HIS and 19 (30%) as LIS. All HIS patients had significant injuries diagnosed following paralysis with intubation (PWI). Mortality in the HIS group was 9%. The LIS subgroup was compared to a randomly selected group of similarly injured blunt trauma patients who did not require PWI. There were significant differences (P less than 0.05) in age, hospital cost, hours per day of nursing care, and percent of patients with an ETOH level greater than 100 mg%. Emergency paralysis with intubation is an effective method for controlling the uncooperative, combative, seriously injured patient. However, patients with low injury severity who require restraint have higher costs and require more care if they are paralyzed and intubated than if they are not. 
Ultrasonography in the diagnosis of gynecologic disorders. Ultrasonographic examination is being used with progressively greater frequency as an aid in diagnosis of gynecologic disorders but too often without consideration of whether information other than that obtained from clinical examination is needed and whether ultrasonography can supply it. The size, number, and position of pelvic masses and, in some instances, the type of tumor can be identified, but it is not often necessary when operation is clearly indicated. Ultrasonographic screening for diseases of the reproductive organs has been proposed, but its use for this purpose is limited and it is not cost-effective. It should be used as an adjunct to clinical diagnosis, not as a primary diagnostic procedure. 
Molecular genetic considerations in osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma tumorigenesis is consistent with a model by which tumorigenesis results if both alleles at the retinoblastoma susceptibility locus (RBI) are altered. Additional genetic evidence strongly suggests that another obligate event in osteosarcoma tumorigenesis is the homozygous alteration of another gene, p53. Both the RB1 gene and p53 have been proposed to act as tumor-suppressor genes, suggesting that, in this instance, tumorigenesis is the result of the loss of gene function of these two genes, rather than a gain of function. 
Risk factors for acute non-A, non-B hepatitis in the United States and association with hepatitis C virus infection. The Centers for Disease Control conducted intensive surveillance for acute non-A, non-B hepatitis in four sentinel counties over a 7-year period. Testing for antibody to hepatitis C virus was performed with the newly developed enzyme immunoassay. The incidence of non-A, non-B hepatitis remained relatively stable (average, 7.1 cases per 100,000, but there were significant changes in disease transmission patterns. The proportion of patients with a history of blood transfusion declined from 17% to 6%, but the proportion with a history of parenteral drug use increased from 21% to 42%. The proportion of patients with histories of sexual exposure (6%), household exposure (3%), occupational exposure to blood (2%), or hemodialysis (0.6%) did not change over time. Antibody to hepatitis C virus was found in 45% of patients within 6 weeks of onset of illness and in 68% of patients followed up for at least 6 months. Patients with no history of transfusions were just as likely to be positive for antibody to hepatitis C virus as patients with transfusion-associated hepatitis, indicating that hepatitis C virus is the major causative agent of all non-A, non-B hepatitis in the United States. 
Update on functional anatomy and pathology of human eustachian tube related to otitis media with effusion. New anatomic and histopathologic information regarding the eustachian tube and its surrounding structure as well as possible mechanisms of opening and closing function and dysfunction are discussed in this article. In the past two decades, much light has been shed on the relationship between anomalies of the eustachian tube and the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion. Now that a technique for obtaining specimens for any histopathologic study that includes the temporal bone as well as the eustachian tube is available, it is hoped that, by harvesting and examining a large number of such specimens, more information will be gained about the relation between eustachian tube pathology and eustachian tube dysfunction, particularly as it relates to otitis media effusion. Only in this way can the clinical management of otitis media be improved. 
Nucleolar organizer regions in vascular and neoplastic cells of human gliomas. The number of nucleolar organizer regions in vascular cells and neoplastic cells of human gliomas was counted by a combined staining technique: one-step silver colloid method for nucleolar organizer region-associated argyrophilic protein (AgNOR) and periodic acid-Schiff staining for basement membrane of vascular components. The number of AgNORs (mean +/- SD) in the vascular and neoplastic cells of various tumors tested was as follows: benign astrocytoma (Grade 2, n = 4), 1.52 +/- 0.07 and 1.80 +/- 0.13, respectively; anaplastic astrocytoma (Grade 3, n = 7), 1.98 +/- 0.23 and 2.87 +/- 0.50; and glioblastoma multiforme (Grade 4, n = 11), 2.05 +/- 0.29 and 3.13 +/- 1.13. AgNOR scores in vascular cells of benign astrocytomas, anaplastic astrocytomas, and glioblastomas were significantly higher than those of vascular cells in normal brain tissue without neoplastic alteration (1.26 +/- 0.05; n = 3; P less than 0.01, P less than 0.001, and P less than 0.001, respectively). Moreover, the AgNOR scores of vascular cells in high-grade gliomas (Grades 3 and 4) were significantly higher than those in low-grade gliomas (Grade 2) (P less than 0.01). These results indicate that the proliferative activity of both vascular and neoplastic cells in gliomas increased as histological malignancy advanced, and that the quantification of AgNORs was useful in evaluating proliferative activity in vascular cells as well as in assessing the malignancy of neoplastic tissues. 
Immunoblotting and culture positive endocarditis. Serum samples from patients with endocarditis due to Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus lactis and a "nutritionally" variant streptococcus were immunoblotted against antigenic extracts from all five species. In S mutans endocarditis there was an endocarditis specific pattern of IgM against bands of 220, 200, and 190 kilodaltons. In S pneumoniae IgM against antibody of a molecular weight greater than 150 kilodaltons was specific to endocarditis. In S agalactiae IgM against bands at 82, 71, and 66-67 kilodaltons was endocarditis specific. In S lactis endocarditis specific IgM was present against antigenic bands at 105, 66, 61 and 58 kilodaltons. With the "nutritionally" variant streptococcus it was impossible to distinguish between cases of endocarditis and controls. 
Acquired progressive lymphangioma. Acquired progressive lymphangioma is rare and can histologically mimic well-differentiated angioendothelioma. In a 9-year-old boy with acquired progressive lymphangioma, we demonstrated that the neoplasm consists of at least a vascular component and a smooth muscle component. The presence of type IV collagen around many vascular channels suggests that an intermediate stage of differentiation between blood vessels and lymphatics may be present. Our findings indicate that acquired progressive lymphangioma is most likely a complex hamartoma composed of vascular channels and smooth muscle. 
Brachial plexus anesthesia in pediatric patients. Between 1980 and 1988 at our institution, brachial plexus anesthesia (BPA) was used in 109 pediatric patients who underwent 142 surgical procedures on an upper extremity, including 134 axillary blocks. Most patients older than 6 years of age had their blocks and surgical procedures with moderate sedation. The success rate was high--92.4% of axillary blocks and 100% of other blocks were adequate for surgical intervention in patients who required only intravenous sedation. The postoperative course in the BPA group was compared with that in 109 age-matched control subjects who underwent 188 procedures on an upper extremity during general anesthesia (GA). Admission to the recovery room after anesthesia occurred less frequently in the BPA group than in the GA group (27.5% versus 91.0%; P less than 0.01). Furthermore, nausea and vomiting were less frequent in the BPA group than in the GA group (P less than 0.01). Outpatients in the BPA group were less likely to require narcotic analgesics before dismissal than were those in the GA group (12% versus 31%; P less than 0.05). Admission of outpatients was infrequent in both groups (2% for BPA and 9% for GA). No significant difference was noted in 24-hour postoperative narcotic requirements between the BPA and GA groups. 
Massive evisceration: a complication following sacrospinous vaginal vault fixation. This report describes a spontaneous vaginal vault prolapse in association with massive evisceration following sacrospinous vaginal vault fixation. Careful attention to surgical technique is critical to the success of the operation. In particular, good apposition of the vaginal vault to the sacrospinous ligament and adequate repair of an enterocele should avoid this complication. 
Hip disarticulation: factors affecting outcome. Hip disarticulation, especially in patients with peripheral vascular disease, has been associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. This report describes patient characteristics that influence the clinical outcome of hip disarticulation. The medical records of all patients undergoing hip disarticulation from 1966 to 1989 were reviewed for surgical indication, perioperative wound complications, and postoperative deaths. Fifty-three patients underwent hip disarticulation for limb ischemia (10), infection (12), infection and ischemia (14), or tumor (17). The overall incidence of wound complications was 60%, and no significant differences were found among the groups. Prior above-knee amputation and urgent/emergent operations were significantly associated with increased wound complications (p less than 0.05). The overall mortality rate was 21%, ranging from 0% (tumor) to 50% (ischemia) and differed significantly among the groups (p less than 0.02). Mortality was significantly associated with urgent/emergent operations (p less than 0.01). Age, diabetes mellitus, and previous inflow procedures did not influence mortality rates. The presence of limb ischemia influenced mortality rates to a greater extent than did infection, and a history of cardiac disease was statistically predictive of death. Wound complications frequently accompanied hip disarticulation, regardless of operative indication, and were significantly increased by urgent/emergent operations and prior above-knee amputation. Hip disarticulation can be performed with low mortality rates in selected patients. Both limb ischemia and infection substantially increase operative mortality rates. 
Benefit of a stroke unit: a randomized controlled trial. In a randomized controlled trial we compared the clinical outcome of acute stroke patients, 110 of whom were allocated to treatment in a stroke unit and 110 to treatment in general medical wards. No significant difference existed between these groups with regard to sex, age, marital status, medical history, or functional impairment on admission. Outcome was measured at 6 and 52 weeks after the stroke by the proportion of patients at home, the proportion of patients in an institution, the mortality, and the functional state. After 6 weeks 56.4% of the patients randomized to the stroke unit and 32.7% of the patients randomized to the general medical wards were at home (p = 0.0004), and after 52 weeks 62.7% and 44.6%, respectively, were at home (p = 0.002). After 6 weeks 36.3% of the patients from the stroke unit and 50.0% from the general medical wards were in an institution (p = 0.02); after 52 weeks 12.7% and 22.7%, respectively, were institutionalized (p = 0.016). After 6 weeks mortality was 7.3% for the stroke unit group and 17.3% for the general medical wards group (p = 0.027). After 52 weeks mortality was 24.6% for the stroke unit group and 32.7% for the general medical wards group (difference not significant). Functional state was significantly better for patients treated in the stroke unit after both 6 and 52 weeks. We conclude that care of patients with acute stroke in a stroke unit improves clinical outcome compared with treatment in general medical wards. 
Cost and quality trade-offs in the treatment of hypertension. The cost-effectiveness of treatment for hypertension is positively related to the level of pretreatment blood pressure and to the level of success in achieving patient adherence to prescribed medical regimens. Opportunities to improve the cost-effectiveness of treatment include limiting treatment to patients with well-documented sustained increases in blood pressure, giving higher priority to the treatment of patients with diastolic blood pressures of 100 mm Hg and above, and relying on lower-cost medications if clinical responses to treatment permit. In patients with mild hypertension, a comparison of strategies for initiating pharmacological treatment that takes into account potential side effects as well as the costs of medications indicates a difference of $270/patient-yr between the least and most expensive alternatives. Whether the additional costs of more expensive treatment strategies are "worth it" depend on any additional health benefits actually conferred. Moreover, higher-cost strategies may have negative influences on patients' decisions to adhere to prescribed regimens or to continue in treatment. Cost is a particular problem for the treatment of chronic conditions like hypertension because of inadequate insurance coverage for medications, especially for the poor. 
Acupuncture in angina pectoris: does acupuncture have a specific effect? To overcome the methodological problems of blinding the patients and the acupuncturist in acupuncture trials, 33 patients with stable angina pectoris, who were randomized to either genuine or sham acupuncture, received electroacupuncture by another acupuncturist, and the change in skin temperature was recorded. It was found that the change in skin temperature correlated significantly with the degree of improvement following both genuine and sham acupuncture. Fourteen patients with no decrease in skin temperature exhibited a significantly better response to acupuncture than 19 patients who showed a decrease in skin temperature (G II). In the former group, there was a 15% median improvement in exercise tolerance (G II 0%), a 67% improvement in anginal attack rate (G II 38%), and an 84% improvement in nitroglycerine consumption (G II 50%). A significant correlation was found between the duration of disease and the effect of acupuncture. It is concluded that both genuine and sham acupuncture have a specific effect on some angina pectoris patients in addition to the effect of pharmacological therapy. 
Nasal positive pressure ventilation in patients with acute respiratory failure. Difficult and time-consuming procedure for nurses. Intubation and mechanical ventilation are well-established techniques in the management of patients with acute respiratory failure; however, there are situations in which these procedures cannot be used safely for various reasons. A recently described noninvasive technique, nasal positive-pressure ventilation (NPPV), has been developed for home ventilation of certain patients with chronic ventilatory insufficiency. We hypothesized that NPPV could be used in selected patients in whom intubation and mechanical ventilation were clearly indicated, but not immediately possible, or even contraindicated. Six patients were treated with NPPV during an episode of acute respiratory failure and enrolled in a prospective study. We found that NPPV was successful in avoiding intubation, but only in the three patients suffering from a restrictive pulmonary disorder, whereas the procedure was unsuccessful in patients with obstructive disorders. Moreover, in every patient, acute NPPV was very time-consuming for the nursing staff: in patients with restrictive disorders, a nurse had to monitor a patient submitted to NPPV during 41 +/- 9 percent of the duration of ventilation and during 91 +/- 9 percent of the NPPV time in patients with obstructive disorders. We conclude that acute NPPV may be attempted in selected patients with acute respiratory failure, predominantly patients with restrictive respiratory disorders, but that this procedure is very time-consuming for nurses. 
Emergency esophagogastrectomy for treatment of hydrochloric acid injury. Eight patients with severe hydrochloric acid injury of the esophagus and stomach had early esophagogastrectomy. Four patients survived and 6 to 8 weeks later underwent successful substernal colon replacement. The value of early diagnosis and subsequent aggressive surgical management of patients who have ingested hydrochloric acid is stressed. 
Treatment of refractory chronic Lyme arthritis with arthroscopic synovectomy. Of 20 patients who underwent arthroscopic synovectomy for refractory chronic Lyme arthritis of the knee, 16 (80%) had resolution of joint inflammation during the first month after surgery or soon thereafter, and they have remained well during the 3-8-year followup period. Three of these 16 patients who were more disabled preoperatively, still had mild functional limitation at long-term followup. The remaining 4 patients (20%) had persistent or recurrent synovitis. We conclude that arthroscopic synovectomy is effective in treating chronic Lyme arthritis in patients in whom the disease does not respond to antibiotic therapy. 
Ultrasonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Ultrasonography with graded compression was performed in 525 patients with clinical signs of acute appendicitis. Of 207 patients with surgically proven appendicitis the inflamed appendix (diameter greater than or equal to 6 mm) had been visualized sonographically in 177 (86 per cent). The score for non-perforated appendicitis (91 per cent) was higher than for perforated appendicitis (55 per cent). Twenty-four patients in whom an inflamed appendix was seen on ultrasonography did not undergo surgery because of rapidly subsiding symptoms ('abortive appendicitis'). Four of these 24 developed recurrent appendicitis warranting surgery. Two underwent elective appendectomy and 18 have remained symptom-free. Of 155 patients with a subsequently confirmed alternative condition, ultrasonography made the correct diagnosis in 140: bacterial ileocaecitis (69), mesenteric lymphadenitis (eight), gynaecological conditions (34), urological conditions (eight), caecal diverticulitis (six), perforated peptic ulcer (six), Crohn's disease (two) and miscellaneous conditions (seven). Of 139 patients in whom no definite diagnosis was made ultrasonography showed no abnormalities in 138. In four patients a false positive sonographic diagnosis of appendicitis was made and in two patients with appendicitis an alternative condition was incorrectly diagnosed. During the last 3 years of the study the negative appendicectomy rate was 7 per cent and delay beyond 6 h after admission occurred in only 2 per cent of patients with surgically proven appendicitis. When used to complement the clinical diagnosis ultrasonography improves the diagnostic accuracy and patient management in those suspected of having acute appendicitis. 
Lactose intolerance. Pinpointing the source of nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms. Lactose intolerance is a common condition that can cause nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms. A reliable diagnosis cannot be made on the basis of the patient's history. The breath hydrogen test is simple, noninvasive, accurate, and inexpensive and is the diagnostic method of choice. In addition to traditional dietary restriction of lactose, treatment may consist of alterations in dietary fat content or caloric density to reduce symptoms and use of dairy products or additives that provide lactase activity. 
Comparison of speech perception abilities in deaf children with hearing aids or cochlear implants. The speech perception abilities of deaf children with a single- or multi-channel cochlear implant are compared with those of deaf children who derive substantial benefit from conventional hearing aids. The children with hearing aids have unaided pure-tone thresholds ranging from 90- to 110-dB HL through at least 2000 Hz, and aided thresholds of 30- to 60-dB HL. The group data show that the speech perception scores of the subjects with hearing aids were significantly higher than those of the subjects with implants on a range of speech perception measures. Although a few subjects with implants achieved scores as high as those who used hearing aids, the majority did not. Even though the children with implants receive substantial benefit from their devices, they continue to have limited auditory perception abilities relative to their peers who derive benefit from conventional hearing aids. The data highlight the importance of establishing hearing aid benefit in potential candidates for implant. 
Intermittent ischemia potentiates intestinal reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that even brief periods of reperfusion interjected between ischemic episodes would increase tissue injury. Studies were performed in a rat small intestine preparation in which metabolic, hemodynamic, and histologic responses to ischemia have been well characterized. Animals were subjected to a total of 30 or 45 minutes of complete intestinal ischemia. Flow interruption was continuous (C, single episode) or intermittent (I, two or three episodes of 15-minute ischemia separated by 5 minutes of reperfusion). In some experiments 5-minute reperfusions were performed with arterial blood depleted of leukocytes (IL). This additional perturbation was included to determine the role of neutrophils that have been strongly implicated in reperfusion injury. In all three protocols histologic sections were obtained after each ischemic insult and after 1 hour of reperfusion with arterial blood. Villous histology was graded in a blinded fashion with 1 = normal and 5 = severe injury. No significant differences were found between groups in immediate postischemic histologies before reperfusion. After 1 hour of reperfusion, intermittent episodes of ischemia were associated with significantly worse histologic injury than that seen with comparable durations of continuous ischemia (30 min: I, 4.4 +/- 0.5 vs C, 2.7 +/- 0.4; 45 min: I, 4.9 +/- 0.2 vs C, 2.8 +/- 0.3). However, if 5-minute reperfusions were with leukopenic blood, this effect was markedly reduced (30 min IL, 3.4 +/- 0.3; 45 min IL, 3.6 +/- 0.2). Even short periods of reperfusion during an ischemic insult greatly increased mucosal injury. 
Immunohistochemical analysis of estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors, Ki-67 antigen, and human papillomavirus DNA in normal and neoplastic epithelium of the uterine cervix. To investigate the relationship between the sex steroid receptor (estrogen receptor [ER] and progesterone receptor [PR]) status and the cell proliferation kinetics during the menstrual cycle in normal and neoplastic epithelium of the uterine cervix, immunohistochemical localization of ER, PR, and cell proliferation-associated antigen, Ki-67, was investigated in 35 normal cervical specimens, 3 condylomas, 26 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) samples, and 22 invasive squamous carcinoma samples. The presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA was also studied. In the normal cervix, basal cells were usually ER positive, PR negative, and Ki-67 negative throughout the menstrual cycle. Parabasal cells were ER positive and PR negative in the follicular phase, but ER negative and PR positive, and Ki-67 positive in the luteal phase, and Ki-67-positive cells increased in number in the luteal phase. In contrast, PR positivity was observed in the cells of condyloma (2 of 2 cases), CIN (19 of 26 cases), and invasive squamous carcinoma (13 of 22 cases) irrespective of the menstrual phase. Moreover, most neoplastic cells containing HPV DNA type 16/18 were ER negative, whereas several lesions containing HPV DNA type 31/33/35 were weakly ER positive. Many Ki-67-labeled cells were observed in the neoplastic lesions. These results suggest that reduced ER expression and increased PR expression are associated with the proliferation of normal cervical squamous epithelium, and this proliferation-related receptor status, which is probably induced by HPV infection, is usually expressed in neoplastic cervical squamous cells. 
Maintenance treatment of duodenal ulceration: ranitidine 300 mg at night is better than 150 mg in cigarette smokers. Two hundred patients received either ranitidine 150 mg or 300 mg at night for 18 months to prevent duodenal ulcer relapse. Recurrence rates were lower in patients receiving the higher dose of ranitidine (3.1% v 9.7%, p = 0.78; 6.5% v 16.7%, p = 0.037; and 8.9% v 17.0%, p = 0.121 at six, 12, and 18 months respectively). In patients receiving ranitidine 150 mg, recurrences were significantly more common in smokers than non-smokers after 12 and 18 months, while in patients receiving ranitidine 300 mg recurrence rates were similar in smokers and non-smokers. Ranitidine 300 mg at night abolishes the adverse effect of smoking observed during maintenance treatment with ranitidine 150 mg at night and may therefore be an appropriate maintenance dose for smokers who relapse during standard dose maintenance treatment. 
Primary cardiac sarcomas. In marked contrast to benign cardiac tumors, primary cardiac sarcomas occur infrequently. Moreover, there is no uniform approach to treating such patients, and the benefits of postoperative chemotherapy are unclear. Between 1964 and 1989, 21 patients with primary cardiac sarcomas underwent surgical resection alone (n = 7), chemotherapy alone (n = 1), or combined operation and postoperative chemotherapy based on adriamycin (n = 13). Twenty-four operations were performed on 20 patients with relief of symptoms in all. Eleven patients had complete resection. Operative mortality was 8.3% (2/24). Histology and originating chamber(s) included angiosarcoma (n = 7; 6/7 in right atrium, 1 in left atrium), malignant fibrous histocytoma (7; all in left atrium), fibrosarcoma (2; 2/2 in left atrium), rhabdomyosarcoma (2; 1 in left atrium, 1 in right ventricle), leiomyosarcoma (2; 1 in left atrium, 1 in left ventricle); and one undifferentiated sarcoma (right atrium). Overall actuarial survival was 14% at 24 months after resection. Patients with complete resection had a median survival of 24 months compared with only 10 months in all other patients (p = 0.035). Postoperative chemotherapy did not enhance survival in patients with incomplete resection. At this time, aggressive and complete surgical resection seems to offer the best hope for palliation and survival in an otherwise fatal disease. 
Decreased serum growth hormone-binding protein in patients with liver cirrhosis. The recently characterized GH-binding protein (GH-BP) has an amino acid sequence identical to the extracellular domain of the GH receptor. Serum GH-BP reflects the amount of GH receptors, and the liver seems to be their main source. To evaluate the effect of liver disease on GH-BP, 52 patients with liver cirrhosis were studied. Serum GH-BP was measured by a binding assay with dextran-coated charcoal separation. Levels of GH-BP were correlated against the clinical state, assessed by Pugh's score. The GH-BP of 31 Pugh's class A patients was 9.7 +/- 0.5%/50 microL serum, and that of 21 Pugh's class B and C patients was 7.2 +/- 0.5%/50 microL serum compared to 11.3 +/- 0.5%/50 microL serum in age-matched controls. GH-BP correlated negatively with Pugh's score and serum bilirubin, and positively with serum albumin. It did not correlate with serum liver enzymes or serum insulin-like growth factor-I. Scatchard analysis of GH binding to the GH-BP revealed similar binding affinities in Pugh's A, B, and C patients and controls. The binding capacity in cirrhosis was significantly lower than that in controls. We conclude that serum GH-BP is controlled mainly by the liver and can provide an additional measure of disease severity in liver cirrhosis. 
Teaching intubation skills using newly deceased infants. This prospective study was designed to (1) test the hypothesis that the majority of families of newly dead infants in a tertiary neonatal intensive care unit would consent to their infants' being intubated for teaching purposes, (2) determine factors related to family consent, and (3) determine the effects of participation on resident physicians and respiratory therapists. Family consent for intubation was requested following 44 (80%) of the 55 deaths that occurred during the 10-month study period. Of these requests, 32 (73%) were granted. Proportionately more white than black families consented and consent was positively related to autopsy permission. Fifty-three (75%) of 71 trainees completed a mailed questionnaire after their first intubation experience. Although each respondent found the experience helpful, many reported mixed feelings categorized as doubt about participating, apprehension and discomfort, respect for the body, appreciation for the opportunity, a sense of achievement, and feelings of comfort knowing that consent had been obtained. These findings confirm our initial hypothesis and suggest that (1) newly dead infants can be a valuable resource for teaching intubation skills, and (2) others considering a similar approach need to be aware of and sensitive to trainees' feelings. 
Reflex anal dilatation: effect of parting the buttocks on anal function in normal subjects and patients with anorectal and spinal disease. Anal dilatation in response to gentle parting of the buttocks has been advocated as a sign of sexual abuse in children, but nothing is known of the physiology of this response or its existence in normal subjects, in patients with spinal disease, and in patients with a weak sphincter and whether it can be elicited after training. To answer these questions we investigated the effect of parting the buttocks on anal function. Combined anal manometry and electromyography was conducted in six normal subjects (five men, one woman, aged 19-53 years), in 18 patients with faecal incontinence (three men, 15 women, aged 30-80 years), and in seven paraplegic patients (six men, one woman, aged 25-36 years), in four of whom the posterior sacral roots had been cut. Parting the buttocks in normal subjects reduced the pressure in the anal canal from 102 (20) to 14 (3) cm H2O (mean (SEM), p less than 0.00001), but did not cause the anus to gape. This drop in pressure was associated with increased electrical activity in the external anal sphincter. Normal subjects could consciously relax the external anal sphincter and reduce the anal pressure but not so as to result in anal gaping during traction on the buttocks, even after anal dilatation. Stimulation of the anal lining by moving a probe in and out of the anal canal increased the activity of the external anal sphincter, raising anal pressures. Paraplegic patients who had lost conscious control of their external sphincters showed anal gaping when the buttocks were parted. 
Blood warming: current applications and techniques. Active blood warming is a recent practice and arises out of conflicting needs. On the one hand, the safety and preservation of blood require refrigerated storage and delivery up to the moment of transfusion. On the other hand, modern methods of very rapid transfusion in resuscitation would cause clinically dangerous hypothermia if unmodified, ice-cold blood were to be so transfused. These needs must be reconciled in the interest of adequate patient care--hence the need for blood warming. Nevertheless, blood warming creates risks of its own and should not be used without justifying clinical indications. Within limits that extend somewhat above normal body temperature, the application of heat does no harm to stored RBC, a fact that is not reflected in current standards for blood warmers. Bearing in mind the human tendency to "stretch" standards and the fallibility of mechanical devices, caution is always wise. But perhaps the time has come for reconsideration of the present upper limit of 38 degrees C. Many varieties of blood warmers are available in the US, but none at this time is based on electromagnetic activity. The most common systems now in use are in-line warmers, most of which are not adequate for the type of rapid-transfusion systems currently available. Countercurrent in-line blood warmers and the method of rapid warm saline admixture can both be used successfully for rapid, massive transfusions. Blood warming is seldom necessary or desirable for elective transfusions at conventional rates, even for patients with cold autoagglutinins. 
Echinococcus granulosus cysts in the liver: management with percutaneous drainage. Twenty-one hepatic Echinococcus granulosus cysts (maximal diameter, 7.5 cm +/- 4.0) in 12 patients were aspirated and irrigated with hypertonic (20%) saline under sonographic guidance. All patients had signs and symptoms of a hepatic mass caused by the cysts, which had a prominent fluid component that appeared anechoic or hypoechoic, with marked enhancement of back wall echoes. The amounts of cyst fluid aspirated and of hypertonic saline used were 190 mL +/- 240 and 120 mL +/- 90, respectively. Separation of the endocyst from the pericyst and nonviability of scoleces were observed in all cysts. Mean hospital stay was 4.0 days +/- 3.4. Serial sonographic examinations revealed high-level echoes in the cyst cavity (heterogeneous echo pattern), which ultimately became uniformly echogenic (pseudotumor). After follow-up of 14.0 months +/- 5.5, maximal cyst diameter decreased to 4.1 cm +/- 3.1 (P less than .001). One patient died of unrelated causes; the remaining 11 patients experienced relief of symptoms and a decrease in liver span. 
Reduction of canine myocardial infarct size by a diffusible reactive oxygen metabolite scavenger. Efficacy of dimethylthiourea given at the onset of reperfusion. A number of scavengers of reactive oxygen metabolites reduce myocardial injury when given before ischemia and reperfusion, but few, if any, have proven to be effective when given near the onset of reperfusion. This is particularly true when infarct size is measured after at least 48 hours of reperfusion, when the full extent of myocardial damage has become apparent. Dimethylthiourea (DMTU) is an extremely diffusible, potent scavenger of hydroxyl radical, hydrogen peroxide, and hypochlorous acid, with a long half-life of 43 hours. Sixteen chloralose-anesthetized dogs underwent 90 minutes of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion followed by 48 hours of reperfusion. Collateral flow was measured by radioactive microspheres. Infarct size and risk area were measured by a postmortem dual-perfusion technique using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride and Evan's blue dye. In eight dogs, therapy with DMTU (500 mg/kg i.v.) was given during the last 15 minutes of ischemia and the first 15 minutes of reperfusion. In eight control dogs, the same volume of 0.9% saline was given during the last 15 minutes of ischemia through the first 15 minutes of reperfusion. Infarct size as a percent of risk area was reduced in the DMTU-treated group compared with the saline-treated controls (DMTU = 42 +/- 4% versus saline = 59 +/- 4%, p less than 0.01). 
Mucosal IgA recognition of Helicobacter pylori 120 kDa protein, peptic ulceration, and gastric pathology. The gastric IgA response to Helicobacter pylori was examined in 100 dyspeptic patients by means of immunoblotting of supernatants from antral biopsy and gastric mononuclear cell cultures. 76 of 78 patients with chronic gastritis, 2 of 8 with reactive gastritis, and 1 of 14 subjects with normal mucosa showed positive responses. Of patients with chronic gastritis, 75%, 83%, 97% and 76%, respectively, showed responses to the 120 kDa, 90 kDa, 61 kDa, and 31 kDa proteins. None of the 19 patients with chronic gastritis who did not recognise the 120 kDa protein had peptic ulcers, whereas 25 of 57 with positive recognition had peptic ulcers (p less than 0.001). Mucosal recognition of the H pylori 120 kDa protein was also positively associated with the activity of gastritis (polymorph infiltration) (p less than 0.002) and with the extent of surface degeneration (p less than 0.01). These findings suggest that 120-kDa-positive strains of H pylori have pathogenic features associated with active gastritis and peptic ulceration. Infection with 120-kDa-negative strains may explain why peptic ulceration develops in only a proportion of subjects infected with H pylori. 
Surgical cure of cardiac arrhythmia. 1969. The first surgical procedure undertaken for the intended purpose of curing a patient with recurrent tachycardia was performed by Sealy in 1968, and the report of that operation was published in The Annals of Thoracic Surgery in 1969. The first attempted accessory bundle ablation was successful, marked the beginning of cardiac arrhythmia surgery, and has set the standard against which other methods of arrhythmia control must be measured. 
Traumatic esophageal rupture: unusual cause of acute mediastinal widening. We have presented the case of a 32-year-old man who sustained blunt trauma to the chest in a motor vehicle accident. Plain roentgenograms showed a widened mediastinum and pneumomediastinum, and an esophagogram with water-soluble contrast material showed an esophageal laceration at the T-4 level. 
Prognostic factors in invasive bladder carcinoma in a prospective trial of preoperative adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy Clinical and pathologic factors were analyzed in 40 patients with localized muscle-invasive bladder carcinoma treated in a prospective bladder-preserving program consisting of transurethral tumor resection, neoadjuvant chemotherapy (methotrexate, cisplatin, and vinblastine [MCV]), and 4,000 cGy radiotherapy with concurrent cisplatin. Patients with biopsy-proven complete response after chemotherapy and 4,000 cGy radiation received full-dose radiotherapy (6,480 cGy) with cisplatin. Cystectomy was recommended to patients with residual disease. Distant metastasis rate was associated with tumor stage and size: 0% in T2 patients, 39% in T3-4 patients (P = .035), 6% for tumors less than 5 cm, and 59% for tumors greater than or equal to 5 cm (P = .002). Risk of bladder tumor recurrence was higher in patients with tumor-associated carcinoma in situ (CIS; 40%) than those without CIS (6%; P = .075). Papillary tumors and solid tumors both had similar treatment outcomes. By multivariate analysis, tumor stage T2 (P = .04) and absence of CIS (P = .03) were significant predictors of complete response; CIS was predictive of local bladder recurrence (P = .07); and tumor size (P = .03), response after chemoradiotherapy (P = .02), and vascular invasion (P = .08) were associated with distant metastasis. Six of eight local bladder tumor recurrences were superficial tumors. The low actuarial distant metastasis rate of T2 patients (0% at 3 years), the 3-year actuarial overall survival rates for T2 (89%) and T3-4 (50%) patients, and the similar treatment outcomes for papillary versus solid tumors are encouraging when compared with published historical controls. These results provide preliminary evidence (median follow-up, 30 months) that the current chemoradiotherapy regimen may have beneficial effects in the treatment of muscle-invasive bladder carcinoma. The true efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy remains to be proven by ongoing randomized trials. 
Anaesthetic-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia in Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome. A four-year-old deaf girl with a history of convulsions developed polymorphous ventricular tachycardia during induction of anaesthesia. The arrhythmia reverted to sinus rhythm spontaneously. Post-anaesthetic ECG showed marked prolongation of the QTc interval (570-690 msec). Deafness and prolonged QTc interval in association with microcytic-hypochromic anaemia confirmed the diagnosis of the Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome. This case report highlights the potentially lethal complication of halothane anaesthesia in patients with long QTc interval syndrome. 
N-(fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl) amino acids, a class of antiinflammatory agents with a different mechanism of action [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Mar 15;88(6):2612] Several members of a series of N-(fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl) amino acids were found to possess a broad spectrum of antiinflammatory activity. The compounds were active against oxazolone dermatitis in mice and adjuvant arthritis in rats, models in which activated T lymphocytes are implicated. The compounds also inhibited T-lymphocyte activation in vitro, assessed by using the mixed lymphocyte reaction. The compounds inhibited the reversed passive Arthus reaction in rats and arachidonic acid-induced dermatitis in mice, models in which leukocyte infiltration is responsible for the inflammatory reaction. More complete evaluation was made of one compound, N-(fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl)leucine (NPC 15199). On histologic examination after arachidonic acid administration, NPC 15199 was found to block recruitment of neutrophils into the inflammatory site. The compound was not a general myelotoxin. Prolonged treatment of animals did not alter bone-marrow progenitor number or the numbers of circulating white blood cells. Further, several white cell functions were not inhibited in vitro, including neutrophil respiratory burst and macrophage phagocytosis. NPC 15199 was effective in blocking antigen arthritis in rabbits and was effective in a therapeutic protocol, reversing oxazolone edema. These studies suggest that N-(fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl) amino acids may be valuable therapeutic agents for inflammatory diseases. 
10 year review of invasive aspergillosis detected at necropsy. Between 1980 and 1989, 32 cases of invasive aspergillosis were identified out of 2315 consecutive necropsies, an incidence of 1.4%. The incidence in immunosuppressed "high risk" patients was 10.7%. Twenty out of 32 cases showed spread beyond the lungs, with the brain the most common site. There was an increase in cases in the second half of the decade, attributable to the start of a liver transplantation programme. Liver transplant recipients and patients with haematological malignancies were at significantly greater risk of acquiring aspergillosis than kidney transplant recipients or those with solid malignancies treated with chemotherapy. There was also a greater risk of haematogenous dissemination in liver transplant recipients than in all other groups, and this was significantly associated with the use of high dose steroids as anti-rejection treatment. Aspergillus was isolated during life in only eight cases, which indicates a continuing need for and emphasises the value of necropsy. 
Antibodies to cytoplasmic sequences of cloned liver growth hormone (GH) receptors recognize GH receptors associated with tyrosine kinase activity. GH stimulates tyrosyl phosphorylation of GH receptors in 3T3-F442A fibroblasts, and highly purified GH receptor preparations exhibit tyrosine kinase activity. Paradoxically, however, the GH receptor cloned from liver exhibits no sequence similarity to receptors with known signal transduction mechanisms, including those exhibiting ligand-activated tyrosine kinase activity. These observations raise the possibility that there are two kinds of receptors for GH: the first represented by the cloned liver GH receptor, and the second by a tyrosine kinase-containing GH receptor. To inquire into the possibility of two distinct GH receptors, we determined whether the cloned liver GH receptor shares structural similarities with the tyrosine kinase-associated GH receptor. When the cloned rabbit liver GH receptor is expressed in human kidney 293 cells, it migrates with a mol wt appropriate for the tyrosine kinase-associated GH receptor, despite the calculated mol wt of the cloned GH receptor being 60,000 smaller than that of the tyrosine kinase-associated GH receptor. The recognition of tyrosine kinase-associated GH receptor by antipeptide antibodies to three different epitopes on the cytoplasmic domain of the cloned liver GH receptor was also tested. Tyrosyl phosphorylated [125I]human GH-receptor complexes were prepared by immunoprecipitation with phosphotyrosyl-binding antibody; this subpopulation of GH-receptor complexes was recognized by all three antipeptide antibodies. The antibodies also recognized similarly isolated tyrosyl phosphorylated GH-receptor complexes, which had been further phosphorylated in solution on tyrosyl residues upon addition of [gamma 32P] ATP. Furthermore, highly purified GH receptors prepared by sequential immunoprecipitation using phosphotyrosyl-binding antibody and any one of the three antipeptide antibodies incorporated 32P into tyrosyl residues upon the addition of [gamma 32P] ATP. These results provide evidence that tyrosine kinase-associated GH receptors share sequence similarity in the cytoplasmic domain with the cloned liver GH receptor. The cloned GH receptor and the tyrosine kinase-associated GH receptor, therefore, are likely to be the same receptor or related receptor isoforms. 
Malignant potential of the cryptorchid testis. A follow-up study of 224 male patients from Rochester, Minnesota, diagnosed with cryptorchidism during the period from 1935 through 1974 was conducted to assess the frequency of subsequent testicular neoplasms. Age-specific rates for testicular neoplasm in this community were used to estimate an expected number for comparison with that observed. Two malignant testicular neoplasms have occurred in this cohort; thus, the standardized morbidity ratio was 11.4 (95% confidence interval, 1.4 to 41.1). Of the 158 patients born in the community, 11% were known to have birth weights of less than 2,500 g, approximately twice the expected occurrence. Increased risks were also noted for inguinal hernia, hypospadias, Down's syndrome, cleft lip or palate (or both), clubfoot, and congenital heart disease, for which the standardized morbidity ratios were 3.6, 4.7, 17.8, 11.3, 11.7, and 2.7, respectively. The increased risk for malignant neoplasms observed in this cohort of patients with cryptorchidism is consistent with that found in earlier studies. 
An analysis of sequential physiologic changes in hypoxic cor pulmonale during long-term oxygen therapy. Physiologic changes were studied retrospectively in 37 patients with hypoxic cor pulmonale who died during long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT). The subjects were assessed during periods of clinical stability for each year on LTOT. At the onset of treatment, their mean age (+/- SEM) was 60.0 +/- 1.3 years, and at the time of death, they were aged 65.0 +/- 1.3 years. The median duration of LTOT was five years. For each year leading up to death, mean values of FEV1, PaO2, and PaCO2 were obtained. A rate of decline of FEV1 of 73 +/- 10 ml/yr was observed, and this was accompanied by a decline in PaO2 of 0.47 +/- 0.01 kPa/yr. Patients died with a mean FEV1 of 0.55 +/- 0.04 L and a PaO2 of 5.1 +/- 0.2 kPa. A small rise in PaCO2 occurred, on average 0.25 +/- 0.09 kPa/yr, throughout the study, but accelerating in many cases during the three years before death. Hypoxic cor pulmonale appears to be associated with a rapid deterioration in airway function, a steady decline in PaO2, and a slow rise in PaCO2 during the years leading up to death. These physiologic changes measured in a stable clinical state while breathing air appear to occur in spite of LTOT. The LTOT may merely prevent death from episodes of severe hypoxemia while the pathophysiologic changes in the lung progress. Hence the benefit to be expected from LTOT is only temporary. Generally, those patients with lower levels of FEV1 will obtain diminishing clinical benefit, inversely related to the severity of airflow obstruction at the time of commencement of LTOT. 
Non-infective verrucous endocarditis in a patient with 'primary' antiphospholipid syndrome. A 27-year-old women with 'primary' antiphospholipid syndrome, who developed a haemodynamically significant non-infective verrucous endocarditis is reported. Her mother suffered from antiphospholipid syndrome associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. A pathogenetic role of antiphospholipid antibodies in heart valve lesions is suggested. 
Homozygous prion protein genotype predisposes to sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease [published erratum appears in Nature 1991 Aug 8;352(6335):547] The human prion diseases, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome (GSS), are neurodegenerative diseases that are unique in being both infectious and genetic. Transmission of both diseases and the animal spongiform encephalopathies (for example, scrapie and bovine spongiform encephalopathy) to experimental animals by intracerebral inoculation with brain homogenates is well documented. Despite their experimental transmissibility, missense and insertional mutations in the prion protein gene are associated with both GSS and familial CJD, demonstrating that the human familial cases are autosomal dominant diseases. More than 80% of CJD cases occur sporadically, however, and are not known to be associated with mutations. Here we report that 21 of 22 sporadic CJD cases and a further 19 of 23 suspected sporadic CJD cases are homozygous at the polymorphic amino-acid residue 129; 51% of the normal population are heterozygous at this site. We argue that homozygosity predisposes towards sporadic CJD and that this directly supports the hypothesis that interaction between prion protein molecules underlies the disease process. 
Radiation therapy for primary carcinoma of the extrahepatic biliary system. An analysis of 63 cases. From 1976 to 1988, 63 patients received radiation therapy for primary cancers of the extrahepatic biliary system (eight gallbladder and 55 extrahepatic biliary duct). Twelve patients underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. Chemotherapy was administered to 13 patients. Three patients underwent intraluminal brachytherapy alone (range, 28 to 55 Gy). Sixty patients received megavoltage external-beam radiation therapy (range, 5.4 to 61.6 Gy; median, 45 Gy), of whom nine received additional intraluminal brachytherapy (range, 14 to 45 Gy; median, 30 Gy). The median survival of all patients was 7 months. Sixty patients died, all within 39 months of radiation therapy. One patient is alive 11 months after irradiation without surgical resection, and two are alive 50 months after liver transplantation and irradiation. Symptomatic duodenal ulcers developed after radiation therapy in seven patients but were not significantly related to any clinical variable tested. Extrahepatic biliary duct cancers, the absence of metastases, increasing calendar year of treatment, and liver transplantation with postoperative radiation therapy were factors significantly associated with improved survival. 
Correlation of the antiproliferative effect and the Mx-homologous protein induction by IFN in patients with malignant melanoma. The human interferon-induced intracellular protein homologous to the murine Mx-protein has recently been identified by means of a specific monoclonal antibody. Three of six melanoma cell lines elicited this intracellular human Mx-homolog upon incubation with IFN-alpha or IFN-gamma, yet all six melanoma cell lines tested were susceptible to the antiproliferative effect of IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma. Compared per antiviral unit, IFN-gamma had weaker Mx-inducing but stronger antiproliferative activity than IFN-alpha. These data suggest that the IFN-induced Mx-homologous protein is not involved in the antiproliferative action of IFN on malignant melanoma cell lines. Furthermore, 51 patients with advanced malignant melanoma were treated thrice weekly with 10 x 10(6) IU rIFN-alpha-2b and 6 x 10(6) nIFN-alpha, respectively. Nine of the 51 patients experienced systemic objective tumor responses (3 complete response, 6 partial response), but had Mx concentrations in their mononuclear cells equal to the Mx levels of non-responders during IFN-alpha therapy. Therefore, the level of Mx-homologous protein induced during IFN therapy is not a predictive marker for an antitumor response in malignant melanoma. 
A preliminary report of ticarcillin and clavulanate versus triple antibiotic therapy in children with ruptured appendicitis. Standard therapy for childhood ruptured appendicitis includes combination antibiotic therapy with ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin. Complicated dosing schedules and the possibility of aminoglycoside toxicity make alternatives desirable. One such alternative is Timentin (a combination agent of ticarcillin disodium and clavulanate potassium). This agent has a more convenient dose schedule than standard therapy and eliminates the possibility of aminoglycoside ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. It is active in vitro against most pathogens associated with ruptured appendicitis in children. The preliminary results of an ongoing prospective, open label, randomized trial comparing ticarcillin and clavulanate with ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin in childhood ruptured appendicitis are reported herein. While further evaluation is necessary, we have found single agent therapy with ticarcillin and clavulanate to be equivalent in safety and efficacy to standard combination therapy. Also discussed are the relative merits of immediate versus delayed primary closure of the abdominal wound after appendectomy. 
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita. Caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia. Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita is a rare condition with several features of concern to the anaesthetist. The patients are of extremely short stature and the presence of kyphoscoliosis may lead to significant respiratory impairment. Cervical vertebral body changes can result in spinal cord compression and laryngotracheal stenosis may be present. The management of such a patient presenting for elective Caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia is described. 
Peripheral odontogenic fibroma: a clinicopathologic study. The clinicopathologic features of 30 cases of peripheral odontogenic fibroma are reviewed. The age distribution is wide (11 to 76 years), and there is a slight predilection for males. The majority of the lesions (93%) occurred in blacks on the attached gingiva, and with equal frequency in the maxilla and mandible. Size varied between 1 and 3 cm in diameter. One case recurred after 14 months. Histologically, the lesions are nonencapsulated and poorly delineated. The amount of odontogenic epithelium varies considerably and consists usually of small islands or strands, although larger follicles are sometimes present. In one case the epithelial cells had a clear cytoplasm, whereas in another it was granular and eosinophilic. Origin from the surface oral mucosa can sometimes be seen. The connective tissue component is usually cellular, but collagenous, myxomatous, and mixed forms occur. Calcifications were present in 22 cases and consisted of tissue interpreted as either dentinoid, cementum, bone, or dystrophic calcific material. 
Early constrictive pericarditis and anemia after Dressler's syndrome and inferior wall myocardial infarction. Early constrictive pericarditis and anaemia developed in a 52 year old man after he had an inferior wall myocardial infarction complicated by Dressler's syndrome. Total pericardiectomy at the time of coronary artery bypass surgery resulted in complete resolution of signs and symptoms. 
Spontaneous hepatic copper accumulation in Long-Evans Cinnamon rats with hereditary hepatitis. A model of Wilson's disease. Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats, an inbred strain of a mutant rat isolated from Long-Evans rats, develop hereditary hepatitis. To elucidate the role of copper metabolism in the development of the hepatitis in LEC rats, we examined the copper concentration in the tissues and serum levels of copper and ceruloplasmin. Copper concentration in the liver of LEC rats was over 40 times that of normal Long-Evans Agouti (LEA) rats, while the serum ceruloplasmin and copper concentrations in LEC rats decreased significantly. The hepatocytes of LEC rats show steatosis in cytoplasm and pleomorphism of mitochondria, resembling the histologic features of the liver in Wilson's disease. These findings suggest that the hereditary hepatitis in LEC rats is closely associated with copper toxicity, and may be dealing with a rat form of Wilson's disease. Thus the LEC rats will provide a unique and useful animal model for clarifying the mechanism and for developing treatment strategies for Wilson's disease and other abnormal copper metabolism in humans. 
Dietary fiber and bowel function in tube-fed patients. In tube-fed patients, dietary fiber is often used to manage constipation/diarrhea. Dietary fiber consists of water-soluble and insoluble plant compounds that are resistant to digestion by small-bowel enzymes but are fermented to varying degrees by colonic bacteria. Many physiologic effects of fiber may be related to the degree of fermentation. Few controlled studies of fiber-containing tube feedings have been performed. These studies have limitations and are nondefinitive as to whether fiber prevents or controls constipation/diarrhea. Constipation in tube-fed patients has not been shown to respond to mixed soluble/insoluble fiber in the few studies performed to date. Likewise, fiber may be of only limited benefit in controlling diarrhea in acute illness because of such factors as stress or medication. Fiber does play a role in maintaining gut integrity in all patients, whether they have diarrhea or not. Fiber may be recommended as part of a standard tube-feeding regimen to help assure gut mucosal integrity but not specifically to treat constipation/diarrhea. Further studies are necessary before the role of fiber in the management of constipation/diarrhea in tube-fed patients is determined. 
Interrelationship of blood transfusion, non-A, non-B hepatitis and hepatocellular carcinoma: analysis by detection of antibody to hepatitis C virus. To clarify the relationship between hepatitis C virus infection and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma as sequelae of non-A, non-B posttransfusion hepatitis, 231 patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis (96 with chronic hepatitis, 81 with cirrhosis and 54 with hepatocellular carcinoma) were analyzed for antibody to hepatitis C virus and were compared with 125 patients with chronic hepatitis B (50 with chronic hepatitis, 46 with cirrhosis and 29 with hepatocellular carcinoma). Antibody to hepatitis C virus was detected in 89.6%, 86.4% and 94.4% of patients with non-A, non-B hepatitis-related chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, respectively, compared with 6%, 17.4% and 34.5% with similar diseases related to hepatitis B. A history of transfusion was documented in 52%, 33% and 42% of anti-hepatitis C virus-positive cases of chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The mean intervals between the date of transfusion and the date of diagnosis of anti-hepatitis C virus-positive chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma were 10, 21.2 and 29 yr, respectively. In 21 patients with transfusion-associated hepatocellular carcinoma, anti-hepatitis C virus was present in each serial sample available for testing, including samples obtained up to 14 yr before the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. These data suggest the slow, sequential progression from acute hepatitis C virus-related non-A, non-B hepatitis through chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma and support a causal association between hepatitis C virus and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Efficient management of adrenal tumors. A retrospective analysis was carried out on 121 patients with primary adrenal tumors operated on at 2 Vancouver hospitals between the years 1970 and 1990. The purpose of the study was to identify discriminating factors between the various diagnoses in order to minimize both the time and the cost of the investigative process. There were 57 cortical adenomas, 35 pheochromocytomas, 15 carcinomas, 8 cases of cortical hyperplasia, and 6 miscellaneous tumors. The mean time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis of those patients presenting with an identifiable syndrome was 48.3 months. Those with a hypertensive syndrome presented significantly later than those with Cushing's syndrome (57.7 months versus 22.8 months, p less than 0.01). There was a significant delay in diagnosis in those patients with hypertension on the basis of an aldosteronoma as compared with those with hypertension secondary to a pheochromocytoma (75.4 months versus 36.1 months, p = 0.02). Cortical carcinomas were significantly larger than benign cortical tumors (12.7 cm versus 5.5 cm). No malignant neoplasm measured less than 5 cm in diameter. Diagnostic sensitivity for intravenous pyelogram (IVP) was 59%, for ultrasound 71%, for venography 50%, for meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIGB) (pheochromocytoma only) 80%, and for angiography 70%. However, for those patients with adrenal carcinomas, angiography was positive in 100% of cases. Computed tomography (CT) was the most sensitive localizing investigation with a sensitivity of 98%. While other localizing techniques were less sensitive than CT, they may still play a useful role in selected situations. Factors causing delay in diagnosis and the role of the various imaging modalities are discussed. 
Epicardial coronary artery tone and reactivity in patients with normal coronary arteriograms and reduced coronary flow reserve (syndrome X) The vasomotor response of proximal and distal angiographically normal coronary artery segments was studied in 12 patients with syndrome X, 17 age- and gender-matched patients with chronic stable angina and 10 control subjects with atypical chest pain and a normal coronary arteriogram. Ergonovine (300 micrograms by intravenous injection) and isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg by intracoronary injection) were administered to all patients. Computerized coronary artery diameter measurement (angiographically normal segments only) was carried out before and after the administration of ergonovine and nitrate. Baseline intraluminal diameters (mean +/- SEM) of proximal and distal coronary segments were not significantly different in control subjects and patients with syndrome X or coronary artery disease (proximal 2.88 +/- 0.19, 3.01 +/- 0.13 and 2.86 +/- 0.13 mm; distal 1.57 +/- 0.09, 1.70 +/- 0.10 and 1.61 +/- 0.06 mm, respectively). With ergonovine, proximal segments constricted by 10 +/- 2%, 7 +/- 2% and 11 +/- 3% and distal segments by 12 +/- 3%, 14 +/- 3% and 14 +/- 2% in control subjects and patients with syndrome X or coronary artery disease, respectively (p = NS). With isosorbide dinitrate, proximal coronary segments dilated by 11 +/- 2%, 10 +/- 2% and 8 +/- 2% (p = NS) and distal segments by 15 +/- 2%, 11 +/- 3% and 13 +/- 2% (p = NS) in control subjects and patients with syndrome X or coronary artery disease, respectively. Within groups, constriction in response to ergonovine and dilation in response to nitrate were not significantly different in proximal and distal segments. 
Safety of alcohol after viral hepatitis. To test the validity of the generally held belief that moderate consumption of alcohol during convalescence from acute viral hepatitis adversely affects outcome, 87 adults recovering from acute viral hepatitis (hepatitis A in 36, hepatitis B in 34, hepatitis non-A, non-B in 17) were studied. Criteria for entry to the study attempted to ensure that no patient was a chronic hepatitis B carrier. Patients were randomised either to a moderate alcohol intake, or to continued complete abstention. Drinkers consumed 26 g alcohol daily (mean) and none remained abstinent. At 3 months all patients were well, with normal liver function tests. There were no significant differences between the two groups at anytime. The findings suggest that moderate alcohol intake during convalescence from acute viral hepatitis does not seem to be harmful. 
Involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in primary osteosarcomas and other bone and soft-tissue tumors. The retinoblastoma (Rb) gene, thought by some to be associated with tumor formation of retinoblastoma as a recessive human oncogene, was investigated in 57 cases using DNA and RNA from primary osteosarcomas and other bone and soft-tissue tumors. Eight of 23 osteosarcoma cases (35%) showed structural alterations of the Rb gene. Three of the eight demonstrated homozygous deletions, and the remaining five cases showed heterozygous deletions. Seven out of eight cases represented deletion of a 7.5-kb HindIII fragment. Northern blot analysis of five cases of osteosarcoma showed that four demonstrated no detectable Rb gene transcription, and one case had a truncated 3.5-kb fragment with a faint 4.7-kb band. In the other 34 cases of bone and soft-tissue tumors, two cases of three malignant fibrous histiocytomas showed an Rb gene abnormality by Southern blot analysis. These results strongly suggest that Rb gene alteration is pertinent to the tumorigenesis of most osteosarcoma cases and some other bone and soft-tissue tumors. 
Identification of alloimmunized patients: use of radiolabeled allogeneic platelet kinetic measurements and platelet antibody tests. In a group of stable, nonthrombocytopenic leukemia patients awaiting bone marrow transplantation, results of paired allogeneic radiolabeled platelet kinetic measurements were correlated with the results of several different platelet and lymphocytotoxic antibody tests to determine which parameters could be used to identify patients who were alloimmunized to platelets. Seven patients with acute leukemia who had been transfused during induction therapy were used as the test group, and, as a control group, five untransfused patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia were also studied. Concurrent fibrinogen survival measurements were performed in all patients to assess whether hemostatic factor consumption (ie, disseminated intravascular coagulation) was present. Allogeneic platelet survival measurements were reduced from normal in all 12 study patients. In 8 of 12 patients, fibrinogen and platelet survival measurements were comparably reduced, suggesting disease-related platelet consumption. In four heavily transfused patients with acute leukemia, allogeneic platelet survivals were markedly reduced to less than or equal to 2.1 days, compared with the 3.5- to 7.4-day platelet survival measurements found in the other eight patients. The disproportionately short platelet survivals compared with fibrinogen survival measurements in these four patients, combined with documented positive antibody tests to their donors' platelets in the three patients with evaluable tests, suggested that these patients had become alloimmunized to platelets because of their prior transfusions. There was substantial concordance between the two radiolabeled allogeneic donor platelet survival measurements performed in each of these patients, suggesting that host rather than donor factors have a major influence on transfusion outcome (r = .93, P less than .001). The platelet cross-match tests, using the radiolabeled protein Staph A assay combined with the IgG enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, had the best correlation with the posttransfusion recovery and survival of the donors' platelets. 
Comparison of IgG antibody profiles by immunoblotting in patients with acute and previous Toxoplasma gondii infection. The IgG antibody profile to Toxoplasma gondii proteins of less than 37 kilodaltons in sera from patients with acute and previous infection was studied by immunoblotting. Bands at 28, 29, and 36 kilodaltons were more common in acute infection (10 out of 10, nine out of 10, and nine out of 10, respectively) compared with previous infection (five out of 10, four out of 10, and one out of 10, respectively). The 6 kilodalton band was present in 10 out of 10 sera from patients with acute infection and five out of 10 sera from those with previous infection. A new observation is a doublet of bands of 22-25 kilodaltons present only in sera from patients with acute infection. This doublet may be a more reliable indicator of acute infection than the 6 kilodalton band. 
Effect of enteral nutrition on exocrine pancreatic function. Twelve patients with chronic pancreatitis underwent a pancreatoduodenectomy in which the pylorus was preserved. The effects of parenteral and enteral nutrition on pancreatic secretion were compared. Postoperative nutrition was administered by needle-catheter jejunostomy in seven patients and by total parenteral nutrition in five patients. Pancreatic juice, drained directly from the pancreatic duct, was collected in 4-hour fractions. Volume, bicarbonate, protein, amylase, and chymotrypsin were measured. In the first two postoperative days, there was a slow increase in all measured indices. On the third postoperative day, an abrupt rise occurred, after which pancreatic secretion stabilized. No differences in exocrine pancreatic secretion were observed between the enteral and parenteral methods of feeding. 
Cytogenetic abnormalities associated with renal cell carcinoma. Cytogenetic analysis was performed on 23 renal cell carcinomas (21 sporadic and 2 associated with von Hippel-Lindau's disease). Clonal chromosomal abnormalities were found in 19 of 21 of the sporadic tumors. The most frequent abnormalities were a loss or rearrangement of material in 3p (11 of 21 cases) or an extra chromosome 7 (7 of 21 cases). Correlation between specific chromosomal abnormalities and clinical presentation was absent with the exception of trisomy 7 and -Y, which occurred only in patients more than 60 years old. An increasing number of cytogenetic abnormalities were associated with a greater likelihood of renal vein and/or capsule involvement. Both patients with von Hippel-Lindau's disease had tumors with a normal karyotype. 
Endothoracic endoesophageal pull-through operation. A new approach to cancers of the esophagus and proximal stomach. Many thoracic surgeons have expressed concern about the complications inherent in transhiatal esophagectomy without thoracotomy. The technique of endothoracic endoesophageal pull-through uses a mucosal coring of normal esophagus beyond the tumor and leaves a muscular tube through which the substitute organ is passed. Mediastinal hemorrhage, tracheal injury, and chylothorax are eliminated. 
Effect of anticoagulant on biocompatibility in membrane plasmapheresis. The effect of heparin or citrate anticoagulation on blood cellular, complement pathway and coagulation pathway was investigated in a membrane plasma exchange procedure. Two membrane plasma separators constructed of cellulose di-acetate (CA) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) were evaluated with heparin or citrate alone for anticoagulation in a 26 year old male with myasthenia gravis. Maximum white blood cell counts decrease was 21% at 30 min for the CA with heparin while no decrease was observed for the other schemes. Platelet counts changes were comparable between heparin and citrate, while the PVC groups showed less changes than the CA groups. The CA groups, regardless of the type of anticoagulant used, indicated that complement activation occurred via the classical pathway within the module in addition to the activation via alternative pathway for the CA with heparin. In the PVC groups, complement activation was noted to occur only when heparin was used for anticoagulation. PT and PTT showed slight increases with citrate, while they were remarkably prolonged with heparin. Citrate showed less changes in cellular and humoral factors compared to heparin. CA with heparin was the most activating combination of membrane material and anticoagulant, while the PVC with citrate was the least activating combination. 
An innovative method for neuraxis radiotherapy using partial transmission block technique. Whole CNS (neuraxis) radiotherapy is an important part of therapy for certain CNS tumours which seed via the CSF. Many, if not the majority, of these predominantly young patients are cured but the neuropsychometric, neuroendocrine and growth morbidity of neuraxis radiotherapy on children by conventional methods may be considerable; patients receiving such therapy at an early age often are eventually in the educationally subnormal category. Recent radiobiological data support the concept that all aspects of CNS radiation tolerance are heavily dependent on daily fraction size. We describe a new radiotherapy technique that allows lower daily fraction sizes to be delivered to the neuraxis without prejudicing the total dose to the neuraxis or primary area and without prolonging the overall treatment time. Published radiobiological data support the concept that all the major morbidities attributed to conventional neuraxis radiotherapy will be reduced by the currently described technique without reducing tumour control rates. 
Surgical anatomy of the sacrum. A guide for rational screw fixation. Anterior sacral anatomy was studied to allow safe sacral screw placement. The study included 27 bony sacra. Intrapelvic dissections were performed. Cadaveric specimens were dissected and photographed. The position and angulation of the first sacral foramen was extremely variable. After the position of the L5 root, sacral roots, and iliac vessels, was considered, safe posterior sacral screw implantation could be assured through placement above the level of the first sacral foramen directed medially toward the promontory, parallel to the superior sacral end-plate. Complications of indiscriminate screw placement included L5-root damage, iliac vein penetration, and intractable perineal pain due to sacral root injury. Preoperative computed tomography with the scanner gantry tilted to parallel the superior sacral end-plate defined the great vessels, neural foramens, inclination of the superior sacral end-plate, and prominence of the posterior ileum. Surgical accuracy was evaluated after surgery with computed tomography. 
Facial resurfacing in xeroderma pigmentosum with monoblock full-thickness skin graft. A case of xeroderma pigmentosum with multiple skin tumors on the face that was treated with total excision and replacement of face skin except the eyelids with a monoblock full-thickness abdominal skin graft is reported. The quality and tumor-free features of the monoblock full-thickness skin graft in xeroderma pigmentosum are indicated. Despite the increased morbidity of the donor region, the radical surgical approach advocated here has improved the prognosis in the case reported. 
Comparison of dexamethasone and ondansetron in the prophylaxis of emesis induced by moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial was done to compare the efficacy and safety of a serotonin receptor antagonist--ondansetron--and dexamethasone in the prophylaxis of acute and delayed emesis and nausea induced by moderately emetogenic non-platinum-containing chemotherapy regimens. Patients were treated as outpatients and received intravenous ondansetron 4 mg or dexamethasone 8 mg before chemotherapy and oral maintenance (ondansetron 4 mg every 6 h and dexamethasone reducing from 4 mg to 1 mg 6-hourly between days 1 and 5) for 5 days. 112 patients were treated (38 men, 73 women, 1 with no gender recorded; age range 30-73 years) and 100 were evaluable for cross-over analysis. Patients taking ondansetron or dexamethasone reported no significant difference in complete and major control of acute (83% vs 79%, p = 0.46) or delayed (82% vs 88%, p = 0.214) emesis (vomiting plus retches). Significantly more patients on dexamethasone (87%) than on ondansetron (72%) reported control of delayed nausea (days 2-5) (p = 0.003). Both drugs were well tolerated with no significant difference in the number of adverse events, and this is reflected by similar patient preference for ondansetron (40%) and dexamethasone (30%) (p = 0.244). Both drugs offer adequate out-patient control of chemotherapy-induced emesis; however, dexamethasone has an advantage in the control of delayed nausea, and also in terms of cost and resource allocation. 
Menstrual symptoms in women with pelvic endometriosis. OBJECTIVE--To investigate menstrual symptoms in relation to pelvic pathology. DESIGN--A prospective questionnaire-based study. SETTING--Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Scotland. SUBJECTS--1250 questionnaires were sent out prior to planned admission and 1200 women (96%) brought the completed questionnaires. They comprised 598 women undergoing laparoscopic sterilization, 312 having laparoscopy because of infertility, 156 having laparoscopy because of chronic pelvic pain and 134 women undergoing abdominal hysterectomy for dysfunctional uterine bleeding. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--The occurrence of dysmenorrhoea, menorrhagia, menstrual regularity, premenstrual spotting, deep dyspareunia and pelvic pain in women with either endometriosis and post infective pelvic adhesions or a normal pelvis. RESULTS--Menorrhagia, menstrual irregularity and premenstrual spotting occurred with equal frequency in all groups. Deep dyspareunia, pain after intercourse and recurrent pain unrelated to menstruation or coitus was more common in women with endometriosis and those with post infective pelvic adhesions than in those with a normal pelvis. Dysmenorrhoea appears to be more prevalent among women having endometriosis. CONCLUSIONS--Menstrual symptoms, while raising a high index of suspicion for endometriosis, are not entirely reliable as indicators of disease. Dysmenorrhoea is the most common reported symptom in endometriosis sufferers. Diagnostic laparoscopy should be considered before institution of treatment in women complaining of pelvic pain and menstrual symptoms. 
Increased postoperative pain and consumption of analgesics following acupuncture. Acupuncture was given to patients before (preoperative-acupuncture group, PRE-ACU, n = 25) or after (postoperative-acupuncture group, POST-ACU, n = 25) operative removal of impacted mandibular third molars. Sixty patients did not receive acupuncture and participated as a control group (CG). All patients completed a questionnaire in order to characterize state tension and stress, degrees of neuroticism, extroversion, depression and psychosomatic disorders. We also recorded intraoperative discomfort and pain intensity, postoperative pain intensity and consumption of analgesics for 72 h. The PRE-ACU was significantly more tense following surgery and found the operative procedure more unpleasant than the other two groups. The PRE-ACU further rated intraoperative pain intensity higher than the CG and experienced higher pain intensity immediately postoperatively compared with POST-ACU and CG. Of the PRE-ACU patients 15/24 needed additional local anesthesia intraoperatively while none in the POST-ACU or CG requested extra lidocaine. Postoperatively patients in both PRE- and POST-ACU reported a higher total sum of pain scores (pain intensity) and the PRE-ACU consumed more analgesics compared with the CG. A significantly larger number of patients suffering from "dry socket" (a complication during wound healing) was found in both PRE- and POST-ACU compared with the CG. No correlation was found between assessed personality characteristics and reported postoperative pain/consumption of analgesics in any group and could thus not explain the observed differences between the groups. The reason for our unexpected "negative" findings is unclear but some hypothetical explanations are discussed. 
Reduced D2 dopamine and muscarinic cholinergic receptor densities in caudate specimens from fluctuating parkinsonian patients. Binding of spiperone and 3-quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB), both labeled with hydrogen 3 (3H), were measured in caudate tissue obtained from 8 living parkinsonian patients at the time of cerebral transplantation. This was clinically homogeneous group of patients. All remained predominantly responsive to levodopa, although with marked disability secondary to clinical fluctuations (short-duration responses) and medication-induced dyskinesias; all were receiving substantial doses of levodopa and 6 of the 8 patients were additionally receiving bromocriptine or pergolide. Binding densities of dopamine D2 receptors, as measured by [3H]spiperone binding, were reduced in this group of patients, compared to caudate specimens from autopsy control subjects. This findings may reflect medication-induced receptor downregulation. Parallel changes occurred with muscarinic cholinergic receptors; [3H]QNB binding was significantly reduced, compared to autopsy control values. This reduction of muscarinic receptors might be due to loss of nigrostriatal terminals that are known to contain muscarinic receptors. Alternatively, muscarinic receptors may have been downregulated by increased corticostriatal glutamatergic input to cholinergic cells, inferred to be present based on the prominent levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Finally, receptor deficits could have been a reflection of more widespread degenerative cerebral disease, although levodopa-refractory symptoms were generally not pronounced in these patients. 
Familial Ebstein's anomaly: a report of six cases in two generations associated with mild skeletal abnormalities. In a family of 11 persons in three generations six had Ebstein's anomaly. Five of the six showed mild skeletal anomalies--that is, restricted finger extension, with or without limitation of larger joints, and externally rotated little toes. Two other members of the family had the skeletal features without Ebstein's anomaly. The findings suggest a dominantly inherited syndrome of Ebstein's anomaly and skeletal abnormalities. The four female patients were all mildly affected whereas three of the four male patients were severely affected. 
Excimer laser-assisted femoral angioplasty: early results. The ability to ablate atheroma without generating heat makes the excimer laser wavelength a promising intraluminal technique for the treatment of arterial occlusive disease. This series reviews a preliminary experience treating patients with superficial femoral arterial disease admitted with limb-threatening ischemia or claudication. Twenty-six diseased superficial femoral arteries (5 stenotic and 21 occluded) were treated in 23 consecutive patients. Patients with claudication (18) reluctant to undergo bypass or with limb-threatening ischemia (8) at extremely high risk for surgery were included. There were 10 men and 13 women with a mean age of 67 years. A 308 nm excimer laser with an over-the-wire catheter (19) or balloon-centered end-on catheter (7) was used followed by balloon angioplasty. Twenty-four procedures were performed percutaneously, and two were performed with the vessel open in the operating room. Technical success, defined as disobliteration confirmed by angiography and greater than 0.15 increase of the ankle/brachial index, was achieved in 15 of 26. Eleven of 21 occlusions (52%) and four of five stenoses (80%) were opened. Only two of 11 lesions longer than 10 cm were successfully treated. Unsuccessful attempts (technical failure) occurred in 11 of 26 patients and resulted in four elective and one emergency femoral-popliteal bypass. Five patients were discharged with their claudication unchanged, and one had an elective amputation. Six arterial perforations with three arteriovenous fistulas occurred, all resolved without operation. No unanticipated limb loss occurred. In the 15 successful cases, the mean ankle/brachial index increase was 0.34. Seven (47%) of these 15 remain patent with a mean follow-up of 9.5 months (1.5 to 14 months). 
The transmandibular implant: a 13-year survey of its use. During the period from August 1976 until July 1989 the transmandibular implant was introduced in a total of 31 oral and maxillofacial surgery departments in the Netherlands and 1,466 patients were treated. This study includes 1,356 treated patients from 28 departments. The treatment course of 1,201 patients (89.6%) was uneventful. Of the 157 complications, 58 related to the anatomic contour of the mandible, 49 to the surgery, 25 to the prosthetic reconstruction, 8 to the psychosocial attitude of the patient, 8 to the use of medication, 5 to trauma, and 4 to the presence of a skin graft. Treatment of the complications included removal of the implant in 44 patients; in 106 patients the complication was treated satisfactorily. In the remaining 7 patients, hypesthesia was present. The reasons for the removal of the 44 implants were infection (11), operative error (5), premature loading of the implant (3), insufficient width of the mandible after a visor osteotomy (1), loss of osseointegration caused by the prosthesis (14), psychological problems (4), trauma (3), drug-related gingival hyperplasia (2), and inexplicable pain (1). The present survey shows a consistent success rate of 96.8%. 
Sinus of Valsalva aneurysm eroding into the interventricular septum. We report a case of erosion of an aneurysm of the right sinus of Valsalva into the interventricular septum. The mode of presentation, the preoperative evaluation, and the echocardiographic and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging features are presented, and the cardiac catheterization findings and surgical management of this very rare cardiac pathology are discussed. 
Some perspectives on peptic ulcer. In this article, the author comments on the following topics: whether peptic ulcer is a disease or just the sign of another process; whether the crater has a multifactorial origin; the ubiquity of Helicobacter pylori and the conclusion that a specific strain will doubtless prove to be the cause of some, but not all, ulcers; the inherent definitional problem of "nonulcer dyspepsia"; and the controversy over how much gastric acid needs to be reduced to speed the healing of peptic ulcer. 
Overlapping loss of heterozygosity by mitotic recombination on mouse chromosome 7F1-ter in skin carcinogenesis. A significant role for mouse chromosome 7 abnormalities during chemically induced skin carcinogenesis has been advanced based on previous cytogenetic and molecular studies. To determine the frequency of allelic losses at different loci of chromosome 7 in skin tumors induced in the outbred SENCAR mouse stock by a two-stage initiation-promotion protocol, we compared the constitutional and tumor genotypes of premalignant papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas for loss of heterozygosity at different informative loci. In a previous study, these tumors had been analyzed for their allelic composition at the Harvey ras-1 (Ha-ras-1) locus and it was found that 39% of squamous cell carcinomas had lost the normal Ha-ras-1 allele exhibiting 3 or 2 copies of the mutated counterpart or gene amplification. In the present study, by combining Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction fragment length polymorphism analyses, we detected complete loss of heterozygosity at the beta-globin (Hbb) locus, distal to Ha-ras-1, in 15 of 20 (75%) skin carcinomas. In addition, 5 of 5 informative cases attained homozygosity at the int-2 locus, 27 centimorgans distal to Hbb. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of DNA extracted from papillomas devoid of stromal contamination by fluorescence-activated sorting of single cell dispersions immunolabeled with anti-keratin 13 antibody revealed loss of heterozygosity at the Hbb locus, demonstrating that this event occurs during premalignant stages of tumor development. Interestingly, loss of heterozygosity was only detected in late-stage lesions exhibiting a high degree of dysplasia and areas of microinvasion. Analysis of allelic ratios by densitometric scanning of tumors that had become homozygous at Hbb but retained heterozygosis at Ha-ras-1 indicated mitotic recombination as the mechanism underlying loss of heterozygosity on mouse chromosome 7 during chemically induced skin carcinogenesis. These findings are consistent with the presence of a putative tumor suppressor gene linked to the Hbb locus in the 7F1-ter region of mouse chromosome 7, the functional inactivation of which may constitute a critical event in skin tumor progression, possibly during the malignant conversion stage. 
Human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 in adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix. Many reports have shown a link between human papillomavirus (HPV) and cervical squamous neoplasia. However, the association of HPV with cervical adenocarcinoma has been studied less extensively. The authors evaluated the presence of HPV-DNA in 106 patients with adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix by in situ hybridization, using 35S-labeled probes for HPV 16 DNA and HPV 18 DNA. The overall prevalence of HPV-DNA was 18% (19 of 106). HPV 16 was present in 2 (2%) cases, HPV 18 was observed in 15 (14%) cases, and both HPV 16 and HPV 18 were found in 2 (2%) cases. There was a correlation between HPV-DNA positivity and tumor stage (P less than 0.01) and tumor size (P less than 0.05), but there was no relationship between HPV-DNA positivity and tumor differentiation, proliferation (S-phase fraction), ploidy, lymph node metastases, or five-year survival rate. These results suggest that HPV 18 DNA is associated with cervical adenocarcinoma but the presence of HPV 18 has no influence on overall survival. 
Effects of hypoxaemia and bradycardia on neonatal cerebral haemodynamics. Near infrared spectroscopy has been used to assess the effects of bradycardia and hypoxia on the cerebral circulation in the premature neonate. The technique is well tolerated and can be applied in almost any infant. Continuous monitoring of changes in cerebral oxygenated, deoxygenated, and total haemoglobin is possible. Total haemoglobin is analogous to cerebral blood volume; thus information on circulatory changes as well as oxygenation state can be obtained. Twenty five babies had cerebral monitoring carried out using this technique. During episodes of hypoxia, both spontaneous and induced, impairment of haemoglobin oxygenation within the brain was detected together with an overall increase in the total mean haemoglobin concentration, which was 0.8 x 10(-2) mmol/l. Bradycardia with apnoea also led to impairment of cerebral oxygenation, and to a rapid fall in the concentration of total mean haemoglobin to 1.4 x 10(-2) mmol/l, which was followed in some cases by an increase to above the resting value on recovery of the heart rate to a mean of 0.7 x 10(-2) mmol/l. These disturbances to total haemoglobin concentration represent abnormalities of cerebral blood volume that may be implicated in the pathogenesis of neonatal cerebral injury. 
Role of combination drug therapy with a class IC antiarrhythmic agent and mexiletine for ventricular tachycardia. The combination of mexiletine and a class IC antiarrhythmic agent (encainide, propafenone or flecainide) was evaluated by electrophysiologic testing in 14 patients with a history of sustained ventricular tachycardia whose tachycardia remained inducible during therapy with the class IC drug alone. During the control drug-free state, all patients had inducible ventricular tachycardia, with a mean cycle length of 260 ms (range 190 to 400). During monotherapy with the IC agent the tachycardia remained inducible in each patient, but there was a significant increase in the cycle length to 340 ms (240 to 500) (p less than 0.001). The effective refractory period of the ventricle was not altered. Treatment with mexiletine (oral in 13 and intravenous in 1) was begun and electrophysiologic testing was repeated. Ventricular tachycardia in one patient was rendered noninducible and one patient had arrhythmia aggravation. The tachycardia in the remaining 12 patients remained inducible but its average cycle length increased further to 392 ms (340 to 460) (p = NS). Nine patients had rate slowing and the average cycle length of the ventricular tachycardia in this group was significantly increased (302 to 388 ms, p less than 0.05). The average effective refractory period was significantly increased during combination therapy (267 ms) compared with no drug therapy (235 ms) and therapy with the class IC drug alone (247 ms) (p less than 0.05). After a mean follow-up interval of 22 months, seven patients continue on the combined treatment and have no ventricular tachycardia. 
Congestive heart failure in diabetes with hypertension may be due to uncoupling of the atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-effector system in the kidney basolateral membrane. Hypertension is known to potentiate the risk of congestive heart failure (CHF) in diabetic individuals. Receptor-effector systems for atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), which is known to regulate intracellular calcium (Ca2+), were studied in the kidney during hypertensive-diabetic cardiomyopathy in rats. Animals were divided into four groups: control, diabetic (D), hypertensive (H), and diabetic plus hypertensive (D + H). Diabetes was induced by a streptozotocin (65 mg/kg) injection and hypertension was induced by abdominal aortic constriction; studies were done at 1 and 6 weeks. Plasma ANP was increased at 1 week in the D, H, and D + H groups. There was a significant increase in the activity of Ca2+ + magnesium (Mg2+) adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), which acts as a Ca2+ pump, in the kidney basolateral membrane from D, H, and D + H group at the 1 week study. Ca2+ + Mg2+ ATPase, on the other hand, was significantly decreased in the D + H group only at 6 weeks. This was associated with a decrease in plasma ANP, an increase in the kidney ANP receptor number, and a decrease in guanylate cyclase activity. The response of the Ca2+ pump to ANP was also attenuated. Since ANP is known to mediate its cellular effects in part by increasing Ca2+ + Mg2+ ATPase, the observed changes in the D + H group may contribute to the development of nephropathy and CHF. 
Gastrointestinal lipoma and malignancies. Twenty gastrointestinal lipomata in 18 patients are reviewed: 15 located in the colon, 3 in the distal ileum, one in the duodenum, and one in the stomach. They were found most frequently in European-born, elderly women and presented with variable abdominal symptomatology. Four lipomata were removed during endoscopy, the remainder at laparotomy, partial colectomy being performed in 10 cases. All, except 2 subserosal types, were located in the submucosa, and their average size was 2.7 cm diameter. Microscopically, none showed true encapsulation, and all were composed of mature fat cells without cellular atypia. In spite of nonspecific changes at endoscopy, one-half of the cases showed, on microscopic examination, atrophy of the overlying glands and a prominent eosinophilic and/or lymphoplasmocytic infiltration of the lamina propria. Two large subserosal lipomata were associated with Crohn's disease. In addition, in 39% of cases, malignant tumours, either single or double, were present in the gastrointestinal tract or elsewhere. Gastrointestinal "lipomata" are located in the sites of normal fatty infiltration in the elderly; these growths could be a local aging or reactive process of the intestinal wall rather than true neoplasms without any potential malignancy. However, coexistent malignancies should be carefully searched for in elderly patients with colonic lipoma. 
Acute abdomen as the first presentation of pseudomembranous colitis. Acute abdomen was the presenting manifestation of pseudomembranous colitis in six men who had previously been treated with antibiotics and presented with abdominal distention, pain, fever, and leukocytosis with absent or mild diarrhea. Plain abdominal radiographs revealed megacolon in two, combined small and large bowel dilation in three, with one of them showing volvuluslike pattern, and isolated small bowel ileus in one. Emergency colonoscopy was performed successfully in all patients and revealed pseudomembranes in five and nonspecific colitis in one. All patients had positive latex test results for Clostridium difficile, and two tested positive for cytotoxicity. All patients were treated with IV metronidazole, resulting in resolution of symptoms and abdominal findings. In addition, two patients underwent colonoscopic decompression with improvement. Endoscopically, complete resolution of the pseudomembranes occurred at 4 weeks in all cases. No patient had a recurrence. It is concluded that (a) pseudomembranous colitis may present as abdominal distention mimicking small bowel ileus. Ogilvie's syndrome, volvulus, or ischemia; (b) in such cases, emergency colonoscopy is safe and useful for diagnosis and therapeutic decompression and may obviate the need for surgery; and (c) treatment with IV metronidazole is effective. Colitis due to C. difficile should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute abdomen in patients previously treated with antibiotics. 
Endoscopic assessment of mucosal hemodynamic changes in a canine model of gastric ulcer. In studying the side effects of sclerosants injected into the gastric submucosa in dogs (N = 7), we noted that 3 ml of absolute ethanol induced a large gastric ulceration. We describe the time course of change in the ulcer size, and suggest that such ulceration can be used for the endoscopic assessment of factors important in ulcer genesis and healing. Endoscopic reflectance spectrophotometric measurement of indices of mucosal hemoglobin concentration (IHB) and oxygen saturation (ISO2) were performed in a separate group of dogs (N = 4) with ethanol-induced gastric ulceration. We found a significant difference (p less than 0.05) in IHB and ISO2 immediately before (97 +/- 8 and 37 +/- 3, respectively) and after (138 +/- 7 and 21 +/- 5, respectively) the ethanol injection. At 24 hours after the ethanol injection, the IHB at the lesion margin (141 +/- 14) was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than that at the adjacent mucosa (101 +/- 4), whereas the ISO2 measurements were not significantly different in these two locations, 34 +/- 2 and 31 +/- 2, respectively. We conclude that (1) injection of 3 mol of absolute ethanol into the submucosa of the canine stomach provides an animal model of gastric ulceration in which the ulcer can be examined repeatedly with the aid of the endoscope; (2) in this ulcer model, ischemia with congestion (increases IHB, decreases ISO2) precedes the development of gross mucosal ulcerations; and (3) the margin of the established ulceration in this model exhibits hyperemia (increases IHB, normal ISO2) which mimics that of a healing gastric ulcer. 
Lateral pharyngeal space abscess as a consequence of regional anesthesia. Trismus may be a complication from local anesthesia. Patients with trismus of unknown cause after dental treatment should be evaluated thoroughly. The dentist should perform a complete examination and establish a differential diagnosis to avoid missing a serious or life-threatening infection. A right lateral pharyngeal space infection developed after a general restorative procedure that involved an inferior alveolar nerve injection on the same side. The patient's severe trismus required awake intubation, incision and drainage while the patient was under general anesthesia, treatment with antibiotics and ten days of hospitalization. 
Interdependence of blood pressure and heart period regulation in mild hypertension. Blood pressure and heart period variability have been measured directly in 142 subjects with mild hypertension over 24 h. The variabilities have been expressed as the standard deviation of 2 min averages of all beats over 24 h. Baroreflex sensitivity was assessed in 102 subjects by the phenylephrine method. Blood pressure varies over a range of approximately 40% around the mean by day and by approximately 20% at night. The variability of blood pressure by day was inversely proportional to the sensitivity of the baroreflex (r = -0.33, P less than .001), while the variability of heart period was directly related to the sensitivity of the reflex (r = 0.27, P less than .01). Neither of these relationships was significant at night. An inverse relationship between heart period and blood pressure was shown by regression analysis of blood pressure and heart period averages over 24 h. The steepness of the slope of the heart period-systolic blood pressure relationship was strongly correlated with the baroreflex sensitivity (r = -0.55, P less than .001), suggesting that blood pressure variations are substantially buffered by changes in heart frequency. Thus, a more stable heart rate that results from an ineffective baroreflex is associated with a more variable systolic blood pressure. 
Bleeding after endoscopic sphincterotomy as an underestimated entity. Hemorrhage is the most frequent complication of endoscopic sphincterotomy, with a reported incidence of 2 to 9 per cent. Previous reports have generally defined this complication clinically, leaving the issue of occult bleeding after sphincterotomy essentially unaddressed. Seventy-five serial sphincterotomies were reviewed to further assess this complication. Nine patients had clinically evident hemorrhage and 27 patients had occult bleeding manifested only by a decrement in hematologic parameters, for a total postsphincterotomy bleeding rate of 48 per cent. No statistically significant risk factors for bleeding were delineated. Endoscopically recognized bleeding at the time of the sphincterotomy was 47 per cent sensitive and 85 per cent specific in predicting postprocedural bleeding. Significant delayed hemorrhage was manifest in three patients, one of whom had clinically occult bleeding. We conclude that bleeding complicates endoscopic sphincterotomy much more frequently than previously reported, although often in a clinically occult manner. Significant delayed bleeding can occur, and may not be clinically apparent. Bleeding recognized endoscopically at the time of sphincterotomy is an insensitive but relatively specific predictor of postprocedural bleeding. As use of endoscopic sphincterotomy increases, careful surveillance for hemorrhagic complications, as well as efforts to identify factors predisposing to the same, will be of increasing importance. 
Correlation between sexual abuse and somatization in women with somatic and nonsomatic chronic pelvic pain. After a comprehensive clinical and psychological evaluation, 99 women with pelvic pain of at least 6 months' duration and normal findings at laparoscopy were divided into two groups, including 47 women with probable somatic causes of pain (group 1) and 52 women without identifiable somatic abnormality (group 2). Women without identifiable somatic abnormality (group 2) were younger, had higher mean somatization scores, and reported an earlier mean age at first intercourse, a higher number of total sexual partners, and a higher prevalence of sexual abuse before the age of 20. Within group 2 (nonsomatic pain) but not within group 1, mean somatization scores were significantly higher among women with a history of sexual abuse than among women with a negative history. When analyzed as risks for nonsomatic pelvic pain, the positive predictive value of both a history of sexual abuse and a high somatization score was 78% (relative risk compared with that of women with zero or one risk factor, 2.1; p less than 0.0001). These data suggest that the psychosocial profile of women with nonsomatic pelvic pain differs from that of women with somatic pelvic pain and that previous sexual abuse is a significant predisposing risk for somatization and non-somatic chronic pelvic pain. 
Cardiovascular neural regulation explored in the frequency domain. A consistent link appears to exist between predominance of vagal or sympathetic activity and predominance of HF or LF oscillations, respectively: RR variability contains both of these rhythms, and their relative powers appear to subserve a reciprocal relation like that commonly found in sympathovagal balance. In this respect, it is our opinion that rhythms and neural components always interact, just like flexor and extensor tones or excitatory and inhibitory cardiovascular reflexes, and that it is misleading to separately consider vagal and sympathetic modulations of heart rate. In humans and experimental animals, functional states likely to be accompanied by an increased sympathetic activity are characterized by a shift of the LF-HF balance in favor of the LF component; the opposite occurs during presumed increases in vagal activity. In addition, LF oscillation evaluated from SAP variability appears to be a convenient marker of the sympathetic modulation of vasomotor activity. Although based on indirect markers, the exploration in the frequency domain of cardiovascular neural regulation might disclose a unitary vision hard to reach through the assemblage of more specific but fragmented pieces of information. 
Pancreatic-portal vein fistula with disseminated fat necrosis treated by pancreaticoduodenectomy. I have reported the case of a 62-year-old man with chronic alcoholic pancreatitis and a rare pseudocyst-portal vein fistula. Even though he experienced no abdominal symptoms, he had severe metastatic fat necrosis manifested as subcutaneous fat necrosis, polyarthritis, medullary bone necrosis, and mental status changes. Remote tissue destruction continued until relief was gained by pancreaticoduodenectomy and repair of the necrotic portal vein. Disseminated fat necrosis is a rare syndrome that can be the only presenting feature in patients with pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. Early recognition and treatment of the underlying pancreatic disease may decrease the high morality rate associated with this syndrome. 
Direct sequencing from touch preparations of human carcinomas: analysis of p53 mutations in breast carcinomas A new technique for characterizing somatic mutations in very small samples of cellularly heterogeneous human cancer tissue was developed and tested using mutations in the p53 gene in breast carcinomas as a model system. The technique combines touch preparation of specimens to obtain homogeneous clusters of carcinoma cells free of normal cells with a nested pair of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifications of DNA to increase the amount of target gene sequence sufficiently to permit direct sequencing of the p53 gene. Touch preparations of fresh or previously frozen tissue from human adenocarcinomas derived from several organs were stained, and clusters of 10-50 malignant cells were transferred by pipette into microfuge tubes for PCR amplification. Exons 5-9 of the p53 gene, which contain the major mutational hot spots associated with most human cancers, were sequenced by the following steps: 1) two rounds of PCR amplification using DNA Taq polymerase and two sets of oligonucleotide primers, the second set being nested within the segment amplified by the first set and having attached T7 and SP6 phage promoter sequences, 2) transcription of the amplified DNA sequences with T7 and SP6 RNA polymerases, and 3) dideoxy sequencing of single-stranded RNA transcripts with reverse transcriptase and with additional oligonucleotide primers to achieve specificity for this unique region of the genome. The utility of this approach is illustrated by our success in detecting and analyzing point mutations in cell clusters from four of 11 primary adenocarcinomas of the human breast. 
Changing pattern of bone and joint infections due to Staphylococcus aureus: study of cases of bacteremia in Denmark, 1959-1988. Of the 15,170 cases of bacteremia due to Staphylococcus aureus that occurred in Denmark between 1959 and 1988, we review 525 cases of acute hematogenous osteomyelitis and 185 cases of septic arthritis that developed subsequent to the bacteremia and 134 cases of contiguous osteomyelitis in which the bacteremia developed secondarily. The pattern of acute infections of bones and joints has changed over the three decades studied. The frequency of secondary bone or joint infections due to S. aureus bacteremia has changed, as have the phage-type pattern and antibiotic resistance of the infective strains. The prevalence of hospital-acquired cases has increased and the age distribution of patients has changed, as is reflected in an increasing number of older patients. The localization of hematogenous osteomyelitis has shifted, and the vertebral column is now the most common site of infection. The rate of chronic cases of osteomyelitis that occur following acute hematogenous osteomyelitis has been reduced from 34% to 6%. The mortality associated with S. aureus bacteremic infections of bones or joints is low compared to that associated with other cases of S. aureus bacteremia. 
Generalized pustular psoriasis. A review of 63 cases. BACKGROUND--Sixty-three patients with generalized pustular psoriasis were hospitalized during a 29-year period. They were classified into four subgroups on the basis of onset and morphologic pattern of disease: acute (von Zumbusch), subacute annular, chronic (acral), and mixed. This division provides a better understanding of the variability of the disease and helps in choosing treatment. OBSERVATIONS--The average age at onset was 50 years; male and female patients were affected about equally. In 11 patients, flares were precipitated by localized infections. Approximately one fourth of the patients had complications; most were superinfections. The average stay in the hospital was 30 days; factors correlating with a long hospitalization were hypocalcemia, female sex, and a previous history of psoriasis vulgaris or pustular psoriasis. CONCLUSIONS--Whereas topical therapy was helpful, systemic medications were often needed. Coal tar, ultraviolet light, and psoralen-ultraviolet A may be effective; however, they must be used with caution, because they may exacerbate the disease. 
Hormone replacement therapy in general practice: a survey of doctors in the MRC's general practice research framework. OBJECTIVES--To survey current prescribing practice for hormone replacement therapy among general practitioners and to elicit their views on the role of hormone replacement therapy in the prevention of osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease; to determine whether they would participate in randomised controlled trials to evaluate the long term beneficial and adverse effects of hormone replacement therapy. DESIGN--Postal questionnaires to general practitioners throughout the United Kingdom. PARTICIPANTS--1268 general practitioners in the Medical Research Council's general practice research framework. RESULTS--1081 (85%) doctors in 220 (95%) practices responded. The doctors were currently prescribing hormone replacement therapy to an estimated 9% of their female patients aged 40 to 64, and 55% of doctors were prescribing opposed hormone replacement therapy (oestrogen plus progestogen) to more patients than a year previously. Over half the doctors would consider prescribing hormone replacement therapy for prevention of osteoporosis (670, 62%) and cardiovascular disease (611, 57%) to asymptomatic women. Overall, 79% of the doctors (851) would definitely or probably consider entering women who have had a hysterectomy into a randomised controlled trial comparing unopposed (oestrogen only) hormone replacement therapy with opposed hormone replacement therapy; 49% (524) would enter patients with a uterus into such a trial. Among a subsample, 85% (180/210) would consider entering patients without menopausal symptoms into a trial comparing hormone replacement therapy with no treatment (unopposed in patients who have had a hysterectomy, opposed in those with a uterus). CONCLUSION--There is considerable uncertainty among general practitioners as to the balance of beneficial and harmful effects of hormone replacement therapy in the long term, particularly relating to its use for prevention of osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease. Most of these doctors would be prepared to participate in randomised controlled trials to determine the long term effects of this increasingly widely used treatment. 
Coronary patency, infarct size and left ventricular function after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: results from the tissue plasminogen activator: Toronto (TPAT) placebo-controlled trial. TPAT Study Group Infarct size, left ventricular function and infarct-related coronary artery patency were examined in 108 patients who took part in a previously reported placebo-controlled trial of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in acute myocardial infarction. Coronary angiography was performed 17 +/- 0.8 h after initiation of treatment in 47 patients (group A) or at 10 days in 61 patients (group B). Both groups underwent radionuclide ventriculography 3.8 +/- 0.8 h and again on day 9 after treatment and quantitative thallium scintigraphy on day 8. In group A, the infarct-related artery was patent in 53%; these patients had a smaller global (15.1 +/- 2.5% vs. 25.7 +/- 4.7%, p = 0.029) and regional (14.7 +/- 2.5% vs. 24.1 +/- 4.7%, p = 0.044) fixed thallium defect than did those with an occluded artery. Infarct regional ejection fraction improved by 10.1 +/- 2.1% between early and late studies when the infarct-related artery was patent and by 4.8 +/- 1.4% if it was occluded (p = 0.048); changes in global and noninfarct regional ejection fraction were similar irrespective of perfusion status. Infarct regional ejection fraction and fixed thallium defect were inversely related only when the infarct-related artery was occluded (r = -0.83, p less than 0.0001). In group B, 10 day patency of the infarct-related artery was 67%; there was no difference in patency by treatment assignment or in left ventricular function or infarct size between patients with and without infarct-related artery patency. There was no evidence of an effect of rt-PA therapy beyond that expressed through coronary patency alone in either group A or group B. 
CT and pathologic predictive features of residual mass histologic findings after chemotherapy for nonseminomatous germ cell tumors: can residual malignancy or teratoma be excluded? Forty-eight patients with disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumors were studied retrospectively to determine whether initial pathologic features and pre- and post-chemotherapy computed tomographic (CT) features could be used to exclude malignancy or teratoma in residual masses that were excised after chemotherapy. Neither CT findings (residual mass size, attenuation, and degree of shrinkage during chemotherapy) nor type of primary testicular tumor cell was significantly correlated with malignancy or teratoma versus necrosis in residual masses. No significant correlation was demonstrated between the combined features of (a) the absence of teratoma in a histologic specimen of the primary testicular tumor and (b) greater than 90% shrinkage of masses during chemotherapy and the absence of malignancy or teratoma in residual masses as suggested in the literature. Of nine patients with both of these findings, two had malignancy and two had teratoma. Radiographic and pathologic features cannot be used to reliably exclude malignancy or teratoma in residual abdominal masses after chemotherapy for nonseminomatous testicular cancer. 
Primary soft tissue tumours of the pelvis causing referred pain in the leg. Referred pain in the leg is occasionally due to a pelvic soft tissue tumour. Among 11 patients who presented this way, one had a lymphoma, one had a benign schwannoma, and nine had soft tissue sarcomas. Most patients had undergone a variety of procedures, including laminectomy, before the correct diagnosis was established. In five cases, an accurate diagnosis was obtained by needle biopsy. The lymphoma responded to chemotherapy, and the benign schwannoma was excised. Of the nine patients with soft tissue sarcoma, six underwent marginal/intracapsular excision, three receiving supplementary radiotherapy, and two were treated by nonsurgical means. Hindquarter amputation was technically impossible or inappropriate in these cases. All those with high-grade tumours have died or have metastases. Of four patients with low-grade tumours, three have exhibited only slow disease progression. Careful judgment and a precise histopathological diagnosis are required in planning treatment for patients with pelvic soft tissue tumours causing referred pain in the leg. 
Prevalence and prognostic significance of silent and symptomatic ischemia after coronary bypass surgery: a report from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) randomized population. The prevalence and prognostic significance of postoperative myocardial ischemia, as detected by exercise testing, were prospectively assessed in 174 patients from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) randomized surgical population who had exercise testing before and 6 months after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Whereas the prevalence of symptomatic ischemia significantly decreased postoperatively (52% vs. 6%, p less than 0.001), the frequency of silent myocardial ischemia did not change (30% vs. 29%). Survival at 12 years after bypass surgery based on the 6-month postoperative exercise test results was significantly better for the 112 patients with no ischemia (80%) than for the 51 patients with silent ischemia (68%) or the 11 patients with symptomatic ischemia (45%). These data show that coronary artery bypass graft surgery diminishes the overall prevalence of symptomatic but not silent ischemia and that both silent and symptomatic ischemia adversely affect the postoperative prognosis of these patients. 
Genetic predisposition to iatrogenic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The spongiform encephalopathy Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) has been transmitted to man via administration of growth hormone and gonadotropin extracted from large pooled batches of human cadaveric pituitary glands. In the UK, 1908 individuals were exposed to potentially contaminated growth hormone, of whom 6 have so far manifested CJD. Examination of the prion protein genes of all these cases and of a single case of gonadotropin-related CJD showed that 4 had the uncommon valine 129 homozygous genotype indicating genetic susceptibility to prion infection. Such genetic susceptibility may be important in the aetiology of sporadic CJD disease. 
The mast cell in health and disease. The presence of mast cells, often in an activated state or increased numbers, has been noted in various cutaneous disorders. Recent studies suggest that mast cells are of primary importance in these conditions and their presence does not merely represent a secondary event. This review focuses on atopic dermatitis, contact hypersensitivity reactions, bullous pemphigoid, fibrosing conditions, neurofibromatosis, wound healing, polycythemia vera, and psoriasis, in which there is significant evidence to indicate a pathophysiologic role for mast cells. 
Evaluation of restenosis after balloon dilatation in adult aortic stenosis by repeat catheterization. To evaluate the restenosis rate after successful balloon aortic valvuloplasty, clinical evaluation and repeat catheterization were performed in 96 patients who had undergone balloon dilatation 7 +/- 5 months earlier. Restenosis, defined as a loss of greater than 50% of the benefit in aortic valve area obtained after balloon valvuloplasty, was observed in 48% of the patients. Actuarial analysis showed that the restenosis rate was time dependent and was 80% at 15 months. However, functional improvement was observed in most of the patients with or without restenosis. The restenosis rate was not correlated with the degree of enlargement of the aortic orifice produced by the valvuloplasty procedure. Because of the high incidence of restenosis, balloon aortic valvuloplasty should be limited to patients who have a contraindication to surgery or are at high risk for surgery, or as a bridge to surgery. 
Metabolic consequences of (regional) total pancreatectomy. Little information has been reported on the metabolic characteristics of the totally pancreatectomized patient or the efficacy of medical management after radical pancreatic surgery. The prospective evaluation of 49 such patients, with 31% followed for 48 or more months, forms the basis of this report. The major immediate postoperative challenge is control of diarrhea and weight stabilization. Chronically patients have an increased daily caloric requirement (mean +/- SE, 56 +/- 1 kcal/kg), not wholly explained by moderate steatorrhea (fecal fat excretion, 16% +/- 2% of unrestricted fat intake). Despite persistent malabsorption, deficiencies in fat-soluble vitamin, magnesium, and trace element serum levels can be prevented in most patients. Pancreatogenic diabetes is characterized by (1) absence of the major glucoregulatory hormones insulin and glucagon, (2) instability, and (3) frequent hypoglycemia, with the latter parameters improving with rigorous home glucose monitoring. No patient has developed clinically overt diabetic micro- or macrovascular disease. Performance status in long-term survivors has been reasonable. However adverse chronic sequelae of the operation occur and include an unusual frequency of liver disease, characterized by accelerated fatty infiltration, and osteopenia, with an 18% reduction in radial bone mineral content noted in pancreatectomized patients studied more than 5 years after surgery. 
A method for estimating catechol estrogen metabolism from excretion of noncatechol estrogens. The relationship of catechol estrogen metabolism to disease has seldom been investigated because of analytic difficulties. Estradiol (E2) and estrone (E1) are oxidized simultaneously at either ring A or ring D, and the rate of catechol estrogen formation (r2) is reciprocally related to the rate of 16 alpha-hydroxylation (r3). The rate of ovarian estrogen production (X10) can be summarized as to metabolic outcome: X10 = r10 + r2 + r3 + r(u), where r10 is the loss of E1 and E2 in urine, and ru is the fecal and urinary loss of unknown oxidative products. Assuming a constant r(u) between subjects: constancy of the X10 concentration between subjects during similar menstrual cycle phases. In the absence of xenobiotics, r2 x r3 are reciprocally interrelated: r2 x r3 = K (an oxidation constant whose limiting factor is the biologically available estrogen at the cell surface). To the extent that r10 approximates estrogens available for cellular metabolism, the rate of catechol estrogen metabolism may be determined from (Formula; see text) From published data K = 12.4 +/- 0.8 of the standard error of the mean. Pearson correlation coefficients between actual and estimated catechol estrogen excretion in groups of subjects ranged from 0.61 to 0.97 (median, 0.88). This method has been useful for clinical investigation of the relationship of catechol estrogen metabolism to disease until better methods to measure catechol estrogen directly are available. 
An autopsy study of the incidence of lacunes in relation to age, hypertension, and arteriosclerosis. We investigated selected features of lacunes in 1,086 necropsy cases. Lacunes were found in brains from patients above the age of 40 years and were most common in brains from persons in their sixties but decreased in number in brains from older persons. The most common site of lacunes was the frontal lobe white matter, followed by the putamen, pons, parietal lobe white matter, thalamus, and caudate nucleus in descending order of frequency. By dividing the 1,086 cases into three groups according to blood pressure, we found more lacunes in the hypertensive and borderline hypertensive groups than in the normotensive group; the average number of lacunes per brain in each group was 3.61, 2.77, and 1.15, respectively. Diastolic hypertension was more closely related to the number of lacunes than was systolic hypertension. The extent of arteriolosclerosis of the medullary arteries in the frontal lobe white matter was measured and compared with the number of lacunes. There was a close correlation between lacunes and arterioloslerosis in all age groups. 
Transoral decompression evaluated by cine-mode magnetic resonance imaging: a case of basilar impression accompanied by Chiari malformation. Cine-mode magnetic resonance imaging provides simultaneous images of cerebrospinal fluid flow dynamics. A patient with a basilar impression accompanied by a Chiari malformation and von Recklinghausen's disease who underwent transoral decompression is reported. Preoperative cine-mode magnetic resonance imaging visualized an associated obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid pulsatile flow at the level of the foramen magnum. Tonsilar herniation (Chiari I malformation) and hydrocephalus were also present. Postoperatively, the obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid flow was resolved concomitant with the correction of the cervicomedullary angulation. On the basis of observations made by magnetic resonance imaging, the surgical treatment of basilar impression accompanied by Chiari malformation is briefly discussed. 
Treatment of recurrent urethral strictures using clean intermittent self-catheterisation. The treatment of urethral strictures has been greatly improved by the use of the optical urethrotome. However, there remains a group of patients with recurrent strictures for whom the alternatives remain long-term dilatation/urethrotomy or urethroplasty. Over the last 3 years we have treated 65 such patients using clean intermittent self-catheterisation as a method of self-dilatation. This has resulted in a dramatic decrease in the number of operations performed on these patients, with no significant reduction in urinary flow rate over an average follow-up period of 20 months. The method offers the possibility of long-term cure and should be offered to all all such patients, reducing still further the number of patients who require urethroplasty. 
Immunoturbidimetric assay for estimating free light chains of immunoglobulins in urine and serum. An immunoturbidimetric assay for the assessment of free kappa and lambda light chains of immunoglobulins was developed using a commercial polyclonal antiserum with reactivity towards epitopes on the light chains, which are not expressed when they are bound to heavy chains. The assay, on a centrifugal analyser, is simple and rapid. The limit of detection is 5 mg/l of free light chain, with an assay range of 5-120 mg/l, intrabatch precisions from 1.5-6.4%, and interbatch precisions from 6.5-8.9%. The assay was only slightly less sensitive than colloidal gold staining of cellulose acetate electrophoreses for the detection of Bence-Jones protein in urine. For the serial monitoring of response to chemotherapy in patients with myeloma, the assay correlated well with serum paraprotein estimates obtained by densitometric scanning of Ponceau stained cellulose acetate electrophoreses, but not with serum beta-2 microglobulin measurements, even after correction for the effects of creatinine. These assays may prove to be of use for the monitoring of tumour response in the treatment of Bence-Jones myeloma. 
Avoidance of tolerance and lack of rebound with intermittent dose titrated transdermal glyceryl trinitrate. The Transdermal Nitrate Investigators. OBJECTIVES--To investigate the efficacy of transdermal glyceryl trinitrate given continuously and with a nocturnal nitrate free period. DESIGN--Double blind placebo controlled study with two parallel limbs. SETTING--Multicentre trial. PATIENTS--52 patients randomised to receive either continuous treatment (23 patients) or intermittent treatment with an individually titrated dose (29 patients) for 14 days: both treatments were compared with placebo in a cross-over fashion. INTERVENTION--Continuous treatment with 10 mg per 24 hours of transdermal glyceryl trinitrate or intermittent transdermal glyceryl trinitrate titrated to give an arbitrary 10 mm Hg drop in systolic blood pressure (mean dose 18.2 mg) given over approximately 16 hours. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Treadmill exercise stress testing and ambulatory monitoring of the ST segment after 14 days' treatment. RESULTS--After 14 days' intermittent treatment resting supine and standing systolic blood pressure fell by 7.5 mm Hg (95% confidence interval 2.7 to 12.2) and 9.0 mm Hg (95% CI 3.4 to 14.5) respectively (p less than 0.01); resting heart rate was unchanged. Mean heart rate at 1 mm ST segment depression rose by 11.9 beats/min (CI 1.1 to 23.7) (p less than 0.05), mean time to onset of angina increased by 59 seconds (CI 10.8 to 108) (p less than 0.05), and total exercise duration increased by 40 seconds (p less than 0.05). These changes were not seen after continuous treatment. The frequency of ischaemic episodes was not reduced with either regimen nor was the circadian distribution of these episodes altered, in particular nocturnal episodes did not increase during intermittent treatment. CONCLUSION--Tolerance to glyceryl trinitrate was avoided by the use of individually titrated doses administered with a nocturnal nitrate free period. There was no evidence of "rebound" on ambulatory monitoring during this treatment. 
Physiologic stress and cellular ischemia: relationship to immunosuppression and susceptibility to sepsis. Multiple organ system failure secondary to infection is the most frequent cause of late mortality after hemorrhage, burns, and trauma. Although multiple immunologic abnormalities have been identified following injury, blood loss, and tissue ischemia, the mechanisms that produce these alterations in T- and B-cell function have not been completely defined. Physiologic stress and ischemia result in increased release of neuroendocrine peptides and hormones, capable of affecting normal neuroendocrine-immunologic balance and producing immunosuppression. Tissue ischemia leads to increased expression of heat shock proteins by hypoperfused cells, which can alter T-cell function. Injury also is followed by the appearance of serum immunosuppressive factors, which have been shown to inhibit T- and B-cell function. Future therapies directed at these and other cellular and molecular abnormalities initiated by tissue hypoperfusion may reverse the immunosuppressed state in critically ill patients and lead to improved outcome in this setting. 
Is routine CT scanning necessary in the preoperative evaluation of patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy? To evaluate the usefulness of CT scanning before carotid endarterectomy, a prospective study was performed on 469 consecutive patients considered for carotid endarterectomy during a 5-year period. All patients underwent carotid duplex scanning and CT scanning before carotid arteriography. Two hundred thirty-seven patients (51%) had transient ischemic attacks, 109 (23%) had a prior stroke, and 122 (26%) were asymptomatic. Results of the CT scan were abnormal in 68 (62%) of the 109 patients with stroke. Fifty-one of the 360 patients (14%) without a clinical history of stroke had an abnormal CT scan outcome. Of patients with a stroke documented by CT scanning, 27 had lacunar infarcts, and 92 had cortical infarcts; these findings did not change surgical management in any patient. CT scanning did not reveal any unsuspected infarcts or tumors. Two hundred thirty carotid endarterectomies were performed on 206 patients. Forty-seven patients (23%) in the operative group had abnormal CT scan findings, but the scan did not influence operative decisions or timing in any case. Seventy-two patients (27%) in the nonoperative group had abnormal CT scan results, but CT scan findings did not exclude any patient from arteriography or surgery. Three perioperative strokes (1.3%) occurred. CT scan findings did not correlate with postoperative neurologic complications. Cost of CT scanning was one-half million dollars in our study alone. Routine CT scanning is unnecessary before carotid endarterectomy and is not cost-effective. 
Double dissociation of short-term and long-term memory for nonverbal material in Parkinson's disease and global amnesia. A further analysis. The traditional concept of memory disorder is deficiency of the long-term (LTM) but not short-term (STM) component of memory. STM impairment with LTM sparing is seldom reported. The present study investigated STM and LTM for nonverbal material in three neurological conditions associated with memory impairment: bilateral medial temporal lobe lesions (patient H.M.), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Subjects received 3 tests of nonverbal memory: forward block span, immediate and delayed recall of the Wechsler Memory Scale drawings, and immediate and delayed recognition of abstract designs. Compared with the normal control group, the patient groups displayed different patterns of sparing and loss of the two components of memory: in PD, only STM was impaired; in medial temporal lobe amnesia, only LTM was impaired; and in AD, STM and LTM were both impaired. The contrasting patterns of sparing and loss of STM and LTM in PD and global amnesia were present for both recognition and recall. These results provide evidence that STM and LTM are dissociable processes and are served by separate neurological systems: STM depends upon intact corticostriatal systems, whereas LTM depends upon intact medial temporal lobe systems. 
Traumatic anterior fossa cerebrospinal fluid fistulae and craniofacial considerations. Traumatic cerebrospinal fluid fistulae may present a diagnostic and treatment challenge to the head and neck surgeon. The clinical presentation may be obscured by associated injuries. This article serves as a guide in the understanding, diagnosis, and management of patients with dural fistulae of the anterior cranial fossa. 
Morphologic features and nuclide composition of infarction-associated cardiac myocyte mineralization in humans. Low dietary Mg results in Ca loading of cardiac myocytes, which increases the likelihood of myocyte calcification in the event of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), and possibly increases myocyte vulnerability to necrosis. Bloom and Peric-Golia1 previously reported an autopsy study of cases from the Washington, D.C. area (a region with low levels of Mg in the drinking water), demonstrating AMI-associated mineralization in myocytes with histologically normal nuclei and cross striations, as well as in obviously necrotic myocytes. The authors have re-examined mineralized myocytes from the same autopsy material, using electron probe microanalysis, light microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Microprobe analysis identified Ca and P as the nuclides composing the inorganic phase of the mineral deposits. Ultrastructurally, all Ca deposits, regardless of size or intracellular location, were composed of aggregates of needlelike hydroxyapatite crystals. The mildest form of intracellular Ca deposition was observed as small Ca deposits limited to some mitochondria of myocytes, which demonstrated intact nuclei and regular sarcomere pattern. More advanced stages of intracellular calcification, in the form of Ca deposits associated with mitochondria, Z-band regions and nuclei, were observed in other myocytes that also retained intact nuclei and sarcomeres. Massive Ca deposits were associated with myocytes which showed morphologic features of advanced necrosis, including loss of nuclei, disruption of sarcomere structure and masses of cellular debris. These observations support the theory originally proposed by Bloom and Peric-Golia1 suggesting that Ca loading of myocytes, possibly related to Mg deficiency in humans, increased vulnerability of the myocytes to subsequent AMI-associated necrosis and dystrophic calcification. In addition, the light microscopic impression of calcification of otherwise normal myocytes is contradicted by the electron microscopic identification of hydroxyapatite crystals free in the sarcoplasm, a condition unlikely to be compatible with viability. Lastly, the fact that all Ca deposits were in the form of hydroxyapatite supports the view that they were formed in a Mg-poor environment, which favors conversion of the more common amorphous form of Ca phosphate into the needlelike crystals of hydroxyapatite. 
Bacterial meningitis: T cell activation and immunoregulatory CD4+ T cell subset alteration. Meningitis is the most important cause of acquired postnatal deafness and neurologic disorders in children. To determine if cell-mediated immunity is casually related to the pathogenesis of bacterial meningitis, T cell subsets were quantitated from blood of the 29 children with clinical and bacteriologic diagnosis of Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Neisseria meningitidis bacterial meningitis. The CD4+ T cells increased and CD8+ T cells decreased in patients with meningitis as compared to patient control subjects (bacterial infections without meningitis) and normal healthy control subjects. An elevated percentage of CD25+ (interleukin-2 receptors) and HLA-DR+ (immune-response gene-associated antigen) T cells were detected from all patients with meningitis. All 29 patients with meningitis had highly elevated CD4+ CD45R+ (suppressor-inducer) cells and reciprocally depressed CD4+ CDw29+ (helper-inducer) cells compared with healthy age-matched normal and patient control subjects. These findings indicate characteristic immunologic T cell abnormalities from meningitis. The abnormal increase in the CD4+ CD45R+ suppressor-inducer or "virgin" cells and expression of activation antigens on T cells may be of help in future understanding of abnormal immune reactions from bacterial meningitis. However, deficiency of the CD4+ CDw29+ helper-inducer or "memory" cells may contribute to the impaired helper function for B cell-induced protective antibody synthesis to bacterial capsular polysaccharides found in this disease. 
Androgen responses to acutely increased endogenous insulin levels in hyperandrogenic and normal cycling women. We examined androgen responses in hyperandrogenic (polycystic ovarian disease [PCOD]) and normal women after an acute endogenous insulin elevation. Standard intravenous glucose tolerance tests (IVGTTs), modified to include a tolbutamide injection 20 minutes after IVGTTs, were performed. Polycystic ovarian disease patients were studied in the untreated state, after 6 weeks of ovarian androgen suppression with leuprolide acetate, after a 6-week rest period, and after 6 weeks of antiandrogen therapy with spironolactone. Normal menstruating women were studied during the early follicular, midcycle, and luteal phases of a single cycle. An acute rise in insulin did not alter serum testosterone or androstenedione levels in PCOD or normal women. A significant rise in dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate after modified IVGTTs was found in both hyperandrogenic and normal cycling women. Although these results are not supportive of the theory that insulin acts on the ovary to stimulate androgen production, they may be because of the short time course of insulin elevation that occurs during an IVGTT. 
Hypersensitivity myocarditis. Autopsy tissue specimens of 69 cases of hypersensitivity myocarditis were studied to determine drug association, spectrum of histologic findings, distribution of infiltrates, and correlation between degree of infiltrates and cardiac symptoms. Hypersensitivity myocarditis was defined by the presence of eosinophils, a mixed lymphohistiocytic infiltrate along natural planes of separation, and an absence of fibrosis or granulation tissue in areas of infiltrate. Commonly implicated drugs were methyldopa, hydrochlorothiazide, ampicillin, furosemide, digoxin, tetracycline, aminophylline, phenytoin, benzodiazepines, and tricyclic antidepressants. Histiocytes composed the predominant cell type (in addition to eosinophils and lymphocytes). Lymphocytes were predominantly T cells in 12 cases studied immunohistochemically. Small foci of myocyte necrosis were present in 37 cases, and they correlated with the degree of infiltrate. A nonnecrotizing vasculitis was present in 28 cases. The right ventricle was involved in all but three cases. Cardiac arrhythmias or unexplained death occurred in 29 patients and did not correlate with the degree of myocardial infiltrate or presence of necrosis. Eosinophils were present in the livers of 30 of 58 patients, and their presence correlated with the degree of cardiac infiltration. A causative association between histologic findings and drugs is difficult to prove because of the common usage of many of the drugs implicated, multiple drug use, and the absence of clinical criteria of hypersensitivity. Symptoms do not appear related to the degree of infiltrate. In more than half the cases, infiltrates may be missed by endomyocardial biopsy due to focality of lesions. 
5-Fluorouracil after trabeculectomy and the iridocorneal endothelial syndrome. Nine patients (nine eyes) with iridocorneal endothelial (ICE) syndrome underwent trabeculectomy and received postoperative subconjunctival injections of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) to enhance bleb formation (total 5-FU dose, 30-105 mg; mean, 53.8 mg). Eight eyes had undergone prior unsuccessful trabeculectomy. Four eyes had intraocular pressure (IOP) less than or equal to 21 mmHg on zero to two glaucoma medications after 6 to 54 months of follow-up (mean, 25.3 months). Five eyes required repeat surgery within 2 to 13 months and were considered failures. All five eyes that failed received a Molteno drainage implant. Progressive endothelial proliferation may explain late onset bleb failure and the relative ineffectiveness of 5-FU in this condition. 
Changes in portal blood flow consequent to partial hepatectomy: Doppler estimation. Hemodynamic changes in portal blood flow were investigated in 56 patients with hepatic tumors who underwent partial hepatectomy. Portal flow was measured with a Doppler ultrasound system before, during, and after surgery. The portal flow of patients who underwent massive hepatectomy decreased intraoperatively. The portal flow per unit of cardiac output decreased in patients who underwent massive or major hepatectomy, patients with a cirrhotic liver, and patients who had a satisfactory postoperative course. Postoperatively, the portal flow in patients with a poor clinical outcome (multiple organ failure, hepatic failure, and cardiorespiratory failure) decreased significantly. Monitoring portal hemodynamic values appears to be useful in providing an index of "hepatic functional reserve." Adequate portal flow is essential for postoperative hepatic regeneration; changes in portal hemodynamic values may be directly related to the patient's ability to survive surgery and to regain or maintain normal liver function. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and magnesium conservation in patients with congestive cardiac failure. OBJECTIVE--To investigate whether angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors reduce diuretic induced magnesium excretion in patients in congestive cardiac failure. DESIGN--Cohort analytic study. SETTING--A London district general hospital. SUBJECTS--Thirty four patients with chronic congestive cardiac failure caused by ischaemic heart disease or cardiomyopathy selected consecutively from inpatients under the care of two consultant cardiologists. Nineteen patients (group 1) on diuretics alone were compared with 15 patients (group 2) taking diuretics plus either enalapril or captopril. All drug regimens were stable for at least three months before the study. Patients with impaired renal function (plasma creatinine greater than 120 mumol/l) were excluded. INTERVENTIONS--An intravenous loading dose of magnesium sulphate was given to minimise the variability in baseline magnesium state. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Total urine magnesium excretion and creatinine clearance in 24 hour urine collections. RESULTS--Plasma magnesium was similar in the two groups. However, 24 hour urine magnesium excretion was significantly lower in group 2 than in group 1. Furthermore, creatinine clearance was also significantly lower in group 2 and correlated strongly with magnesium excretion. There was no such relation in group 1. There was no difference in fractional clearance of magnesium between groups. CONCLUSION--Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors have an important magnesium conserving action, possibly via their effect on glomerular filtration rate. 
Diagnostic x-ray procedures and risk of leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Jun 5;265(21):2810] Exposure to diagnostic x-rays and the risk of leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), and multiple myeloma were studied within two prepaid health plans. Adult patients with leukemia (n = 565), NHL (n = 318), and multiple myeloma (n = 208) were matched to controls (n = 1390), and over 25,000 x-ray procedures were abstracted from medical records. Dose response was evaluated by assigning each x-ray procedure a score based on estimated bone marrow dose. X-ray exposure was not associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, one of the few malignant conditions never linked to radiation (relative risk [RR], 0.66). For all other forms of leukemia combined (n = 358), there was a slight elevation in risk (RR, 1.17) but no evidence of a dose-response relationship when x-ray procedures near the time of diagnosis were excluded. Similarly, patients with NHL were exposed to diagnostic x-ray procedures more often than controls (RR, 1.32), but the RR fell to 0.99 when the exposure to diagnostic x-ray procedures within 2 years of diagnosis was ignored. For multiple myeloma, overall risk was not significantly high (RR, 1.14), but there was consistent evidence of increasing risk with increasing numbers of diagnostic x-ray procedures. These data suggest that persons with leukemia and NHL undergo x-ray procedures frequently just prior to diagnosis for conditions related to the development or natural history of their disease. There was little evidence that diagnostic x-ray procedures were causally associated with leukemia or NHL. The risk for multiple myeloma, however, was increased among those patients who were frequently exposed to x-rays. 
Urological aspects of Behcet's disease. Behcet's disease, affecting mostly young males in the Mediterranean countries and Japan, is a multi-system disease with urological manifestations. In this prospective study of 100 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed Behcet's disease, we found that 89% of the males had experienced scrotal ulceration and 6% had epididymitis. We also observed sterile urethritis in 3%. Other urological abnormalities appeared to be coincidental findings. 
A randomized trial of five cisplatin-containing treatments in patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a Southwest Oncology Group study. Six hundred eighty assessable patients with measureable stage III M1, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were randomized to one of five treatment arms including cisplatin, etoposide (VP-16) +/- methylglyoxal bisguanylhydrazone (MGBG; PVp, PVpM); cisplatin, vinblastine (PVe); or PVe alternating with vinblastine, mitomycin (PVeMi); or fluorouracil, vincristine, mitomycin/cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, cisplatin (FOMi/CAP). The overall response rate was 20% with 3% complete responses and 17% partial remissions. The duration of these responses was not statistically different by treatment regimen and varied from 2.7 months to 5.0 months. The overall median survival for all patients was 5.3 months and is not different by treatment. Toxicity was greater in PVpM. The similarity of results for response, duration of response, and survival does not establish the superiority of any of these platinum-based regimens for standard clinical usage. 
Did prognosis after acute myocardial infarction change during the past 30 years? A meta-analysis. Much effort has been spent to improve survival after acute myocardial infarction. To investigate how effective this effort has been, a meta-analysis was performed of studies published between 1960 and 1987 concerning mortality after acute myocardial infarction. Thirty-six studies were analyzed. They were classified with respect to deaths in the hospital and at 1 month and the 5-year mortality rate starting at hospital discharge. Mortality was assessed from all studies by comparing studies from different institutions with use of identical inclusion criteria (externally controlled studies) and by analyzing studies reporting on changes in mortality in two or more comparable patient cohorts admitted to the same institution at different time periods (internally controlled studies). Reports on clinical trials (for example, thrombolytic therapy, beta-adrenergic blockade) in acute myocardial infarction were excluded. Average overall in-hospital mortality decreased from 29% during the 1960s to 21% during the 1970s and to 16% during the 1980s. The externally controlled studies also showed a declining trend: from 1960 to 1969, 32%, from 1970 to 1979, 19% and from 1980 to 1987, 15%. The 1-month overall mortality rate decreased from 31% during the 1960s to 25% during the 1970s and 18% during the 1980s externally controlled studies. Most internally controlled studies also showed significant improvement in in-hospital and 1-month survival. In contrast, 5-year mortality after hospital discharge did not significantly decrease (33% from 1960 to 1969 and 33% from 1970 to 1979). It is concluded that in the prethrombolytic era, short-term prognosis after acute myocardial infarction has improved since 1960. 
Detection of preclinical Parkinson's disease with PET. Putamen 18F-dopa uptake of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is reduced by at least 35% at onset of symptoms; therefore, positron-emission tomography (PET) can be used to detect preclinical disease in clinically unaffected twins and relatives of patients with PD. Three out of 6 monozygotic and 2 out of 3 dizygotic unaffected PD co-twins have shown reduced putamen 18F-dopa uptake to date. In addition, an intact sibling and a daughter of 1 of 4 siblings with PD both had low putamen 18F-dopa uptake. These preliminary findings suggest there may be a familial component to the etiology of PD. PET can also be used to detect underlying nigral pathology in patients with isolated tremor and patients who become rigid taking dopamine-receptor blocking agents (DRBAs). Patients with familial essential tremor have normal, and those with isolated rest tremor have consistently low, putamen 18F-dopa uptake. Drug-induced parkinsonism is infrequently associated with underlying nigral pathology. 
Recent advances in the treatment of breast cancer. Multidisciplinary efforts have defined a number of prognostic factors and newer strategies to improve the outcome of patients with breast cancer. Conservative surgery has led to improved functional and cosmetic results. The development of a number of effective adjuvant regimens has led to improved survival. In patients with stage I disease, several biological characteristics of tumor have been identified that are associated with increased risk of relapse. A multimodality approach to patients with locally advanced disease and inflammatory cancer has resulted in improved survival. A number of hormonal and cytotoxic drug contaminations can palliate metastatic disease, with a small fraction of patients remaining in extended remission. Dose-intensive programs may lead to further improvements in survival of selected patients with this disease. 
Tamoxifen in premenopausal patients with metastatic breast cancer: a review. The antiestrogen tamoxifen is the most widely used hormonal therapy for breast cancer. The drug exerts its antiproliferative effects primarily through estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated mechanisms, although other cellular actions may augment tumor inhibition. Clinically, tamoxifen has been less well studied in premenopausal than in postmenopausal patients. The drug has complex endocrine effects that are dependent on the treatment duration and dose, menopausal status, and target organ. In postmenopausal women receiving tamoxifen, serum estrogen levels remain low, and the normally elevated gonadotropin levels decrease. In contrast, serum estrogen levels are strikingly elevated in many premenopausal women, and gonadotropin concentrations are either unchanged or slightly increased. Large systematic trials in metastatic breast cancer have established tamoxifen as the recommended hormonal therapy for postmenopausal women with ER-positive tumors. Tamoxifen is also an active agent for premenopausal metastatic disease, and response rates are comparable to those reported for oophorectomy. Clinical experience with tamoxifen in this younger age group, however, is more limited. Few premenopausal women (less than 400) have been included in phase II and phase III trials. Two randomized trials (total of 160 patients) comparing oophorectomy with tamoxifen do not definitively establish therapeutic equivalence, and a survival advantage for either treatment cannot be excluded. Many questions remain concerning the appropriate role for tamoxifen in premenopausal patients. Still, tamoxifen has an attractive toxicity profile, and it offers a favorable therapeutic alternative for premenopausal women with ER-positive metastatic breast cancer who wish to avoid surgical or radiation castration. 
Structure and expression of the cDNA encoding human neutrophil collagenase. We have isolated and characterized a 2.4-kb cDNA clone encoding human neutrophil collagenase (HNC), a member of the family of matrix metalloproteinases restricted to secondary granules within neutrophils. Partial amino acid sequence was used to deduce oligonucleotide probes. These probes were used to screen a human granulocyte cDNA library derived from messenger RNA (mRNA) from a patient with chronic granulocytic leukemia. Cell-free translation of RNA produced from the cDNA produced a 52-Kd protein that was recognized by anti-HNC antibody. The cDNA clone was sequenced and shown to encode a 467-residue protein whose sequence matched those regions currently known for HNC. The enzyme exhibits 58% homology to human fibroblast collagenase and has the same domain structure. It consists of a 20-residue signal peptide, and an 80-residue propeptide that is lost on autolytic activation by cleavage of an M-L bond. Other regions identified include the autolytic degradation site, the "cysteine switch" residue that is involved in latency and activation, and a putative zinc binding sequence. HNC has six potential N-linked glycosylation sites. The cDNA hybridized to a 3.4-kb mRNA in RNA from a patient with chronic granulocytic leukemia, but not to RNA from uninduced HL60 cells or HL60 cells that had been induced to undergo granulocytic or monocytic maturation with dimethyl sulfoxide or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, respectively. These results parallel those seen with lactoferrin and transcobalamin I, two other secondary granule proteins. 
Treatment of chronic pain by epidural spinal cord stimulation: a 10-year experience. Epidural spinal cord stimulation by means of chronically implanted electrodes was carried out on 121 patients with pain of varied benign organic etiology. In 116 patients, the pain was confined to the back and lower extremities and, of these, 56 exhibited the failed-back syndrome. Most patients were referred by a pain management service because of failure of conventional pain treatment modalities. Electrodes were implanted at varying sites, dictated by the location of pain. A total of 140 epidural implants were used: 76 unipolar, 46 Resume electrodes, 12 bipolar, and six quadripolar. Patients were followed for periods ranging from 6 months to 10 years, with a mean follow-up period of 40 months. Forty-eight patients (40%) were able to control their pain by neurostimulation alone. A further 14 patients (12%), in addition to following a regular stimulation program, needed occasional analgesic supplements to achieve 50% or more relief of the prestimulation pain. Pain secondary to arachnoiditis or perineural fibrosis following multiple intervertebral disc operations, when predominantly confined to one lower extremity, seemed to respond favorably to this treatment. Uniformly good results were also obtained in lower-extremity pain secondary to multiple sclerosis. Pain due to advanced peripheral vascular disease of the lower limbs was well controlled, and amputation below the knee was delayed for up to 2 years in some patients. Pain due to cauda equina injury, paraplegic pain, phantom-limb pain, pure midline back pain without radiculopathy, or pain due to primary bone or joint disease seemed to respond less well. Patients who responded to preliminary transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation generally did well with electrode implants. Notable complications included wound infection, electrode displacement or fracturing, and fibrosis at the stimulating tip of the electrode. Three patients in this series died due to unrelated causes. Epidural spinal cord stimulation has proven to be an effective and safe means of controlling pain on a long-term basis in selected groups of patients. The mechanism of action of stimulation-produced analgesia remains unclear; further studies to elucidate it might allow spinal cord stimulation to be exploited more effectively in disorders that are currently refractory to this treatment modality. 
Coronary-heart-disease risk-factor status of the Cretan urban population in the 1980s. The traditional Cretan diet has been associated with low coronary-heart-disease (CHD) mortality rates. This study reports on the prevalence of CHD risk factors among 387 Cretan bank employees. Mean cholesterol concentration has risen by 36% over 26-y; dietary intake has changed: consumption of meat, fish, and cheese has increased and consumption of bread, fruit, and potatoes has decreased. Although the percentage contribution of fat to total energy intake has decreased from 40% to 36%, there has been a reduction in monounsaturated fatty acid consumption and an increase in the consumption of saturated fatty acids whereas the consumption of polyunsaturates has not been altered. Exception for diminished physical activity, the prevalence of other risk factors (smoking, blood pressure, and body mass index) remained relatively stable over this period. These changes in the CHD risk-factor status of the Cretan urban population occurred over a period in which CHD mortality rates are reported to have increased. 
Emergency treatment of headache. Headache is a frequent presenting complaint in the emergency department. Once a diagnosis is established, and significant organic disease can be ruled out, relief of pain must be addressed. Referral for follow-up care and narcotic habituation is a recurrent problem for the emergency physician. This article discusses the differential diagnosis of headache, evaluation of the emergency room patient, and treatment of the patient with headache. 
Isradipine for treatment of acute hypertension after myocardial revascularization. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and duration of action of iv isradipine in the control of postoperative hypertension immediately after myocardial revascularization. DESIGN: Prospective, phase 2 trial. SETTING: Surgical ICU, university hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-one (15 male, six female) patients, ages 49 to 75 yr (mean 65 +/- 5), undergoing elective myocardial revascularization. INTERVENTIONS: Twenty-one patients with postoperative hypertension after coronary artery bypass graft surgery received iv isradipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium-channel antagonist. Mean duration of the isradipine infusion was 96.9 +/- 29 min. Mean dose of isradipine, indexed to weight, was 16.63 +/- 6.66 micrograms/kg (n = 20). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty of the 21 patients achieved satisfactory BP control. The reduction in mean arterial pressure (MAP), first noted at the 15-min point, was maximal at 1 hr when MAP decreased from 102 +/- 9 mm Hg baseline to 81 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than .01), accompanied by a significant (p less than .01) decrease in systemic vascular resistance from 1753 +/- 339 baseline to 1180 +/- 229 dyne.sec/cm5. The CVP, pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure did not change significantly. Heart rate and cardiac index increased; however, stroke volume index did not change. CONCLUSIONS: Isradipine is an acceptable agent for the treatment of hypertension in this setting. 
Value of CT in determining the need for angiography when findings of mediastinal hemorrhage on chest radiographs are equivocal. The role of CT in determining the need for angiography in patients with possible thoracic vascular injury resulting from blunt trauma is controversial. During a 24-month period, we prospectively evaluated the results of CT to screen 90 patients with a history of decelerating thoracic trauma for evidence of mediastinal hemorrhage or great vessel abnormality. All patients either had equivocally abnormal mediastinal contours on chest radiographs (64%) or had technically suboptimal chest radiographs owing to body habitus or restriction to the supine projection (36%). Patients with unequivocal signs of mediastinal hemorrhage on chest radiographs underwent immediate arteriography without prior CT. Thoracic CT was interpreted as normal in 63 (77%) patients and no further imaging was performed. Five patients had technically suboptimal CT studies, and CT scans were interpreted as equivocal in six. These 11 patients had normal arteriograms. Sixteen CT scans (18%) demonstrated evidence of mediastinal hemorrhage and/or great vessel contour abnormality. Four (27%) of 15 patients who underwent arteriography had injury to the great vessels. One patient refused to undergo angiography. In 11 patients with CT evidence of mediastinal hemorrhage, major vascular injury was not seen on arteriography. These results suggest a valuable role for CT in determining the need for arteriography to detect potential great vessel injury in patients with blunt decelerating thoracic trauma and equivocally abnormal mediastinal contours on chest radiographs. 
Percutaneous intraarterial thrombolysis in the treatment of thrombosis of lower extremity arterial reconstructions. Vascular grafts may be salvaged with thrombolytic therapy after acute occlusion as an alternative to balloon catheter thrombectomy. From October 1987 to May 1990, 15 arterial bypasses to the lower extremity (infrainguinal saphenous vein [n = 7] or expanded polytetrafluoroethylene [n = 6], and Dacron aortofemoral bifurcation graft limbs [n = 2]) were treated for 30 occulsions with intraarterial urokinase (390,000 IU to 5,808,000 IU) infused from 3 to 40 hours. The origins of 15 graft occlusions were morphologic defects (intimal hyperplasia with anastomotic or conduit stricture), pseudoaneurysm, or progression of disease distal to the graft. Two occlusions were attributed to coagulation disorders. A cause could not be identified for 13 occlusions. Patency was initially restored to all grafts with use of thrombolytic therapy, however, adjunctive surgical thrombectomy to remove persistent thrombus from the graft or outflow vessels was required after six thrombolytic infusions. One graft in the series could not be salvaged leading to below-knee amputation. Graft defects were corrected by balloon angioplasty (n = 7) or surgical revision of the conduit (n = 8). Five significant hemorrhagic complications occurred from the catheter insertion site requiring four emergent surgical procedures and resulting in the death of a fifth patient from a myocardial infarction. This technique allows chemical thrombectomy of branch arteries distal to the graft and inaccessible to a balloon embolectomy catheter, and permits diagnosis of abnormal graft morphology that may be the cause of the graft occlusion. Graft reocclusion can be expected if technical defects in the arterial reconstruction are not revised or hypercoagulable states are not treated. 
Primary malignant melanoma of the oesophagus: case report and review of surgical pathology. Primary malignant melanoma of the oesophagus is both a rare presentation for melanoma and a cause of oesophageal neoplasm. It accounts for less than 0.1% of all primary oesophageal neoplasms. It was first recognised as a primary tumour by de la Pava et al who showed the presence of melanocytes within oesophageal mucosa. This case report includes a review of the surgical pathology. Even though it is a rare lesion it must be considered as a cause of polypoidal oesophageal lesions as both its diagnosis and treatment can present problems. It is usually fatal within one year. 
Incidence and characteristics of preventable iatrogenic cardiac arrests We studied the contribution of iatrogenic illness to cardiac arrest among patients hospitalized in 1981 in a university teaching hospital. During this 1-year period, 28 (14%) of 203 arrests in which resuscitation was attempted followed an iatrogenic complication. Seventeen (61%) of the 28 patients died. The demographic characteristics of patients with iatrogenic arrest did not differ strikingly from those of other patients who arrested. However, patients with iatrogenic arrest were less likely to be in cardiogenic shock or to have suffered an acute myocardial infarction prior to arrest. They were more likely to survive to discharge from the hospital and to be taking digoxin or antiarrhythmic medication prior to arrest. Among the 28 cases of iatrogenic cardiac arrest, 18 (9% of all arrests) might have been prevented by stricter attention to the patient's history, findings on physical examination, and laboratory data. The most common causes of potentially preventable arrest were medication errors and toxic effects (44%) as well as suboptimal response by physicians to clinical signs and symptoms (28%), most frequently dyspnea and tachypnea. Rapid, appropriate response to abnormal drug levels, to electrocardiographic signs of adverse drug effects, and to signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure or toxic effects from digoxin might decrease the incidence of cardiac arrest among hospitalized patients. 
Long-term maintenance treatment of reflux esophagitis with omeprazole. Prospective study in patients with H2-blocker-resistant esophagitis. Thirty-four patients with H2-blocker-resistant reflux esophagitis subsequently healed by 40 mg omeprazole daily entered a maintenance study with 20 mg omeprazole. In 31 evaluable cases the observation period was at least 12 months (mean 24 months). Esophagitis remained in remission in two thirds of patients despite dose reduction. Relapses of esophagitis occurred in 10 cases within six months, which rapidly healed by increasing the omeprazole dose to 40 mg. No further recurrence with 20 mg omeprazole was found later than six months. Peptic strictures primarily requiring repeated dilatation in six patients during healing with omeprazole did not reappear while on omeprazole maintenance. Major side effects that could be attributed to omeprazole were not observed. Gastrin levels remained within or slightly above the normal range in the vast majority. It is concluded that omeprazole maintenance treatment in severe reflux esophagitis is an effective and safe therapy. 
Assessment of the defunctioning efficiency of the loop ileostomy. The defunctioning efficiency of the loop ileostomy has been assessed using a radioisotope and dye technique. The median defunctioning capacity in patients without episodes of fecal discharge per rectum (n = 18) was 99.99 percent and was not affected by body position or the formation of a dependent stoma. In patients (n = 4) who passed fecal material per rectum but who had no stomal retraction, the median defunctioning efficiency was 99.99 percent, and continued fecal discharge was considered to be due to mucopurulent secretion from active distal disease. In patients who passed fecal material per rectum and also had a retracted stoma (n = 4), the defunctioning efficiency was significantly reduced (median = 84.70 [31.2-99.10 percent; P less than 0.01]), owing to the overspill into the distal limb. Two patients underwent stomal revision, with an improvement in defunctioning efficiency to 99.99 percent. 
Endocrine responses to long-term administration of the antiprogesterone RU486 in patients with pelvic endometriosis. OBJECTIVE: To examine endocrine and clinical responses to long-term administration of RU486 in patients with endometriosis. DESIGN: Prospective open trial. SETTING: Faculty practice of the authors. PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Six normally cycling women with endometriosis were recruited. INTERVENTIONS: Subjects received RU486 100 mg/d for 3 months. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Hormonal changes during RU486 were compared with control data obtained in the preceding cycle during the early follicular phase. Clinical responses were determined by patient assessment and second-look laparoscopy. RESULTS: All women became amenorrheic, and daily urinary levels of ovarian steroid metabolites remained acyclic. Mean luteinizing hormone (LH) (P less than 0.02) and LH pulse amplitude (P less than 0.05) were increased without changes in LH pulse frequency. An antiglucocorticoid effect was demonstrated by an increase in serum cortisol (P less than 0.01) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (P less than 0.05) levels. Treatment resulted in an improvement in pelvic pain in all subjects without significant change in the extent of disease as evaluated by follow-up laparoscopy. CONCLUSIONS: Daily administration of RU486 results in acyclic ovarian function and improvement in the subjective painful symptoms of endometriosis. 
Fluconazole: a new triazole antifungal agent. Fluconazole is a recently approved agent for the treatment of certain fungal infections. Based on available studies, the drug is clearly effective in oropharyngeal candidiasis in immunosuppressed hosts. Current evidence suggests it may be more efficacious than other azole drugs for oropharyngeal disease. It is probably also effective in other infections due to Candida species, but controlled studies are lacking. Fluconazole is also efficacious in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis, but recent reports question its use as initial therapy in HIV-infected patients with this illness. The drug, however, is clearly more effective than amphotericin B in the suppression of cryptococcal meningitis in AIDS patients and is the treatment of choice in this situation. 
Hypophysectomy inhibits the synthesis of tumor necrosis factor alpha by rat macrophages: partial restoration by exogenous growth hormone or interferon gamma. We recently demonstrated that GH and interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) act in a similar manner to prime macrophages in vitro and in vivo for enhanced superoxide anion release. In this report we investigated the physiological role of the pituitary gland and GH in in vivo priming of resident peritoneal macrophages for the synthesis of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) in vitro. Compared to normal rats, hypophysectomized animals had an 83% reduction in macrophage production of TNF alpha after in vitro stimulation with lipopolysaccharide. Sham operation had no significant effect on the ability of macrophages to secrete TNF alpha in response to lipopolysaccharide. Both native pituitary-derived porcine GH (48 micrograms/rat.9 days) and native pituitary-derived rat GH (96 micrograms/rat.9 days) more than tripled the in vitro production of TNF alpha by macrophages from hypophysectomized rats (342 and 358 vs. 112 U/mg protein for placebo-treated rats, respectively). Each of these preparations of GH also increased growth more than 6-fold in hypophysectomized rats (32 and 30 g vs. 5 g in placebo controls). Heat inactivation of native pituitary-derived porcine GH significantly reduced its in vivo ability to augment both TNF alpha synthesis by macrophages and body growth. Recombinant rat IFN gamma (2000 U/rat.9 days) more than tripled the production of TNF alpha by macrophages from hypophysectomized rats (343 vs. 112 U/mg protein). In contrast to its in vivo effects, addition of GH in vitro to macrophages from hypophysectomized rats did not prime these cells for the synthesis of TNF alpha, indicating an indirect mechanism of action for GH. To further test the biological relevancy of GH with respect to synthesis of TNF alpha, hemorrhagic necrosis of TNF alpha-sensitive murine methyl-cholanthrene-induced tumors was assessed in pituitary-intact mice. Native porcine GH (133 micrograms/mouse.7 days) significantly augmented both the necrosis to tumor ratio and the hemorrhage to tumor ratio. These findings establish the physiological relevance of the pituitary gland and GH in the priming of macrophages for TNF alpha synthesis. 
Mentally retarded individuals--a population at risk? When comparing the aging process of mentally retarded (MR) persons with the nondisabled population, researchers have established an earlier lower limit for the onset of old age for MR persons and a higher mortality rate. The reason for early senescence has not been successfully resolved, but the finding that cardiovascular disorders are the most prevalent form of disease among elderly MR persons suggests a relationship between lifestyles and higher mortality rate. Indeed, studies that evaluated the cardiovascular fitness (CVF) of MR individuals demonstrated substandard levels of fitness. The results of these studies, however, are not conclusive due to variation in test methodologies, motivational factors, and issues of test validity and reliability. Training studies which have purported to determine trainability of this population have also shown confusing results, perhaps attributed to the same protocol inconsistencies. Therefore, the purposes of this article are 1) to review previous methods of evaluating CVF of MR adults and determine whether testing methodologies invalidate the results of these studies, 2) to review training studies involving adult MR individuals and determine whether this population is capable of improving their CVF, and 3) to identify areas where further research is needed to fully describe the functional cardiovascular characteristics of MR adults. 
Case report: cisplatin-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome. Two patients developed noncardiogenic pulmonary edema (NCPE), following red blood cell transfusion in a setting of acute cisplatin nephropathy. One manifested the full picture of hemolytic uremic syndrome, the other had transient features following blood transfusion. We further reviewed the clinical records on blood transfusion for all patients with cisplatin nephropathy. A third case of (NCPE) was identified in a patient with acute renal dysfunction. However, none of the 16 patients with cisplatin-induced, mild stable chronic renal impairment had pulmonary dysfunction or other laboratory evidence for microangiopathy following transfusion. Hemolytic uremic syndrome may be a rare manifestation of cisplatin toxicity. Caution is indicated in transfusing patients with acute platinum nephropathy even in the absence of overt microangiopathy. The pathogenesis of this syndrome and the cause for NCPE is unclear. The literature is reviewed and discussed. 
Ventriculoatrial shunts for hydrocephalus and cardiac valvulopathy: an echocardiographic evaluation. A group of 20 patients with ventriculoatrial shunts placed as surgical treatment for hydrocephalus were evaluated for cardiac lesions, particularly of the tricuspid valve. Patients with histories of septic or thromboembolic events were excluded. In each patient a clinical history, complete physical examination, electrocardiogram, chest x-ray film and M-mode, two-dimensional and pulsed continuous wave and color-coded Doppler echocardiography were performed. Eight patients were found to have cardiac abnormalities including tricuspid valve insufficiency, tricuspid stenosis and insufficiency, and the catheter passing through the foramen ovale into the left atrium. These findings demonstrate that tricuspid valvular lesions are frequent in patients with ventriculoatrial shunts, and that periodic echocardiographic evaluation should be performed routinely. 
Extensive pulmonary embolism presenting as severe adult respiratory distress syndrome after surgical resection of a cornual pregnancy. A rare case of severe adult respiratory distress syndrome associated with a Po2 of 9 mm Hg after surgical resection of a cornual pregnancy at 10 weeks' gestation was treated successfully with positive end-expiratory pressure. The underlying cause, extensive pulmonary embolism, was subsequently revealed. The patient survived without residual brain damage. The possible causes of adult respiratory distress syndrome in pregnancy are discussed. 
Comparison of rubidium-82 positron emission tomography and thallium-201 SPECT imaging for detection of coronary artery disease. The diagnostic performance of rubidium-82 (Rb-82) positron emission tomography (PET) and thallium-201 (Tl-201) single-photon emission-computed tomography (SPECT) for detecting coronary artery disease was investigated in 81 patients (52 men, 29 women). PET studies using 60 mCi of Rb-82 were performed at baseline and after intravenous infusion of 0.56 mg/kg dipyridamole in conjunction with handgrip stress. Tl-201 SPECT was performed after dipyridamole-handgrip stress and, in a subset of patients, after treadmill exercise. Sensitivity, specificity and overall diagnostic accuracy were assessed using both visually and quantitatively interpreted coronary angiograms. The overall sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of PET for detection of coronary artery disease (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) were 84, 88 and 85%, respectively. In comparison, the performance of SPECT revealed a sensitivity of 84%, specificity of 53% (p less than 0.05 vs PET) and accuracy of 79%. Similar results were obtained using either visual or quantitative angiographic criteria for severity of coronary artery disease. In 43 patients without prior myocardial infarction, the sensitivity for detection of disease was 71 and 73%, respectively, similar for both PET and SPECT. There was no significant difference in diagnostic performance between imaging modalities when 2 different modes of stress (exercise treadmill vs intravenous dipyridamole plus handgrip) were used with SPECT imaging. Thus, Rb-82 PET provides improved specificity compared with Tl-201 SPECT for identifying coronary artery disease, most likely due to the higher photon energy of Rb-82 and attenuation correction provided by PET. However, post-test referral cannot be entirely excluded as a potential explanation for the lower specificity of Tl-201 SPECT. 
Treatment of snoring and obstructive sleep apnea with a dental orthosis. A dental orthosis, designed to increase the size of the upper airway by advancing the mandible, was used in 68 patients to treat snoring and varying degrees of obstructive sleep apnea. The orthosis increased the posterior airway space, as assessed by lateral cephalograms. Seven months (range 2 to 25) after beginning use, 75 percent of patients were using the orthosis regularly. Snoring, by report, was improved in all patients but one (p less than 0.001) and was eliminated in 42 percent (95 percent confidence interval 30 to 55 percent). Sleep quality and sleepiness were also reported improved. Apneas and hypopneas, measured before and after use in 20 patients with obstructive sleep apnea, were reduced from an average of 47 to 20 events per hour (p less than 0.001). Oxygenation and sleep disturbance were also improved. Apnea-hypopnea frequency was reduced with treatment to less than 20/h in 13 patients. Residual frequencies greater than 20/h were associated with higher initial frequencies of apneas and hypopneas. Side effects of orthosis use were minor, and no serious complications were observed. The dental orthosis is an effective treatment for the symptom of snoring and can also effectively treat obstructive sleep apnea of moderate severity. 
Prolactin reduction after combined therapy for prolactin macroadenomas. The ability of surgery or bromocriptine to produce endocrine control of a prolactin macroadenoma decreases as the prolactin level increases. Guidelines for the use of multimodality therapy have not been developed for tumors associated with markedly elevated prolactin levels. We reviewed the records of 21 patients with prolactin levels greater than 200 ng/ml treated by transsphenoidal surgery and postoperative radiotherapy with or without a dopamine agonist. Values before and after treatment were available for 19 patients (13 men and 6 women). The mean basal prolactin level before treatment for the entire group was 2410 ng/ml. Surgery and radiotherapy resulted in a 90% reduction and serum prolactin levels within normal limits in 0 of 7 patients, versus the combination of surgery, radiotherapy, and dopamine agonist, which resulted in a 99.5% reduction and values within the normal range in 12 of 12 patients. Spontaneous physiological improvement was not often observed. One woman and two men were able subsequently to have children. A plan for these patients is discussed. 
Stereotactic brain biopsy in the diagnosis of malignant lymphoma. Fifteen patients with cerebral involvement by malignant non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were identified, among more than 200 patients who underwent stereotactic biopsy at The Johns Hopkins Hospital. All but one of these cases were diagnosed accurately by the stereotactic biopsy procedure. In 12 of 14 patients, the material was adequate to classify the lymphoma according to the Working Formulation. Because all but one of the lesions were intermediate or high-grade neoplasms, a diagnosis of lymphoma was often possible by conventional light microscopic examination alone. Monotypic light chain expression was demonstrated by immunohistochemical techniques in six patients, and positivity for B-cell markers was observed in an additional case. In one instance, two stereotactic biopsy specimens were interpreted as being suggestive of lymphoma, but necrosis and inflammation prevented a definitive diagnosis. Nine patients had no known risk factors for cerebral lymphoma, and the diagnosis often was unsuspected clinically. 
Multivariate clinical models and quantitative dipyridamole-thallium imaging to predict cardiac morbidity and death after vascular reconstruction. Patients with peripheral vascular disease have a high prevalence of coronary artery disease and are at increased risk for cardiac morbidity and death after vascular reconstruction. The present study was undertaken to assess the value of 18 clinical parameters, of 7 clinical scoring systems, and of quantitative dipyridamole-thallium imaging for predicting the occurrence of postoperative myocardial infarction or cardiac death. Vascular surgery was performed in 125 patients. Thirteen postoperative cardiac events occurred, including 10 cardiac deaths and 3 nonfatal infarctions. Clinical parameters were not useful in predicting postoperative outcome. All 63 patients with normal scan results or fixed perfusion defects underwent surgery uneventfully, whereas 21% (13/62) of patients with reversible defects had a postoperative cardiac complication. By use of quantitative scintigraphic indexes we found that patients with reversible defects could be stratified into intermediate and high-risk subgroups with postoperative event rates of 5% (2/47) and 85% (11/13), respectively, despite intensive postoperative monitoring and antianginal medication. Thus in patients unable to complete a standard exercise stress test, postoperative outcome cannot be predicted clinically, whereas dipyridamole-thallium imaging successfully identified all patients who had a postoperative cardiac event. By use of quantification we found that patients with reversible defects can be stratified into an intermediate risk subgroup that can undergo surgery with minimal complication rate and a high-risk subgroup that requires coronary angiography. 
A randomized, controlled trial of treatment of alcoholic hepatitis with parenteral nutrition and oxandrolone. II. Short-term effects on nitrogen metabolism, metabolic balance, and nutrition. Patients with moderately severe or severe alcoholic hepatitis, described in a companion paper in this issue, had serial studies of energy and protein metabolism and elemental balances before and during treatment for 21 days with one of four randomly assigned regimens: 1) standard therapy, consisting of abstinence, a balanced, nutritionally adequate diet, and multivitamins; 2) oxandrolone (20 mg orally four times a day) plus standard therapy; 3) nutritional supplementation, consisting of 2 liters of 3.5% crystalline amino acids in 5% dextrose given by peripheral vein (PPN) plus standard therapy; and 4) a combination of the other three treatments. Dietary and intravenous intakes and weights were recorded daily, and weekly averages were calculated. Anthropometric measurements and blood studies were done weekly; blood studies included white blood cell counts and differentials, serum prealbumin, transferrin, and total protein and plasma aminograms. Four-days complete balance studies and measures of 15N,1-13C-leucine metabolism also were performed at baseline and after the treatment period. Major findings were as follows: a) Intakes of total calories and protein were significantly higher in PPN-treated than in other groups. b) All patients had positive elemental balances, both at baseline and at the end of the treatment period. However, those treated with PPN (with or without oxandrolone) had higher positive balances of nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium, indicating improvement in lean body mass. c) Anthropometric measurements showed no significant changes, but measures of the visceral protein compartment (serum prealbumin, transferrin, total protein, total lymphocyte count) improved significantly with time. For most of these variables, increases were significantly greater in those treated with PPN with or without oxandrolone than in the other groups. However, for prealbumin, the increase was greatest in the oxandrolone-treated group d) PPN treatment produced dramatic increases in levels of branched-chain amino acids and improvement in the ratio of plasma branched chain to aromatic amino acids. Other treatments had no effect on plasma aminograms. e) Metabolism of 15N,1-13C-leucine was normal and was not affected significantly by treatment. Therapy with PPN and/or oxandrolone was tolerated well. We conclude that PPN has favorable effects on energy and protein metabolism in florid alcoholic hepatitis; oxandrolone has lesser effects, although it may exert some additional action and particularly increases serum prealbumin levels. The results support the use of nutritional supplementation in therapy of moderately severe or severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Reversal of a dense, persistent, holohemispheric neurological deficit after an endarterectomy of the carotid artery: case report. The role and timing of a carotid endarterectomy in the setting of an acute ischemic stroke-in-evolution remain controversial. Although computed tomographic (CT) scans typically show no abnormalities in the acute stage, it is generally agreed that a dense neurological deficit (hemiplegia) and/or multiple modality neurological disturbance (involving motor, sensory, gaze, and visual field impairment) represent contraindications to surgical intervention. We present a case of an acute right holohemispheric neurological deficit including dense hemiplegia, hemisensory loss, gaze disturbance, hemineglect, and impaired level of consciousness. This persisted for 4 days while serial CT scans showed no evidence of infarction. Angiography revealed pre-occlusive stenosis of the right internal carotid artery with sluggish antegrade flow. The anterior collaterals of the circle of Willis were impaired, and the right middle cerebral artery territory filled via the posterior communicating artery. Despite the dense neurological deficit persisting for 4 days, a carotid endarterectomy was performed. Gradual neurological improvement was noted within hours of the operation, and all neurological deficits resolved within the subsequent 3 days. This case is consistent with prolonged holohemispheric hemodynamic compromise below the threshold of neurological dysfunction, but above the threshold of tissue infarction ("idling neurons"). Features assisting in the recognition of this unusual scenario and the indications and risks of revascularization in this setting are discussed. 
William Heberden and Myron Prinzmetal: angina pectoris. The most significant accounts of angina pectoris appeared in the medical literature separated by nearly two centuries. They were Heberden's initial description of classic angina and Prinzmetal's report of the variant form. Angina pectoris represents a transient myocardial oxygen deficiency. It is usually related to atherosclerotic coronary artery disease, but there are a number of less common etiologies, most notably aortic stenosis. Stable and unstable forms exist, with stable angina being further subclassified as being of one of four patterns: classic, variant, atypical, and angina equivalent. 
The Purkinje cell and its afferents in human hereditary ataxia. The cerebellar cortex in patients with autosomal dominant and recessive ataxia was studied by Golgi impregnation and immunocytochemistry in order to gain further insight into the pathogenesis of neuronal atrophy which accompanies these disorders. Monoclonal antisera were used to visualize phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated neurofilament proteins, and a synapse-specific protein (P38; synaptophysin). Golgi stain and immunocytochemistry for non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein revealed partial or complete loss of distal Purkinje cell dendrities in the dominant cases and in one recessive case. Many preserved parallel fibres were shown by the monoclonal antibody to phosphorylated neurofilament protein. This antibody also gave strong reaction product in torpedoes. Axosomatic and axodendritic terminals on Purkinje cells were reduced in number, and loss of mossy fiber terminals was revealed by monoclonal anti-P38. The described methods provided additional morphological evidence of the heterogeneity of the hereditary ataxias. Purkinje cell atrophy progressed from loss and simplification of the dendritic tree to disappearance of the cell body. While these cells appeared to be especially vulnerable, other neurons of the molecular and granular layers were not exempt. There was evidence that at least some extracerebellar afferents, such as mossy fibers, were also affected by the disease process. 
Salvage therapy with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow support in the treatment of primary nonseminomatous mediastinal germ cell tumors. The authors reported their experience with the use of high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow rescue (ABMR) as salvage therapy in the treatment of patients with recurrent and refractory primary nonseminomatous mediastinal germ cell tumors (PMGCT). Since 1987, the authors have treated 12 patients with PMGCT with high-dose carboplatin (1500 mg/m2 to 1800 mg/m2) and etoposide (1200 mg/m2 to 1350 mg/m2) (in two patients ifosfamide [10 g/m2] was added) with ABMR. Patients were either in second relapse or cisplatin refractory (progression within 4 weeks of last cisplatin dosing). They had received a median of two prior chemotherapy regimens (range, one to three), all had had prior cisplatin therapy, and most had failed ifosfamide-based therapy. Six patients were cisplatin refractory and of these only one achieved a partial response (PR) that was of short duration. It was planned that all patients would undergo two rounds of therapy; however, only 5 of 12 patients received two courses. The remainder had only one round of therapy either because of inadequate response (three patients) or excessive toxicity (four patients). There were four patients who died in the peritransplant period due to sepsis (two patients) or bleeding (two patients). The median survival of the group was 107 days (range, 14 days to 347 days). No patient achieved a complete remission, but there were six partial remissions, four with stable disease, and two with progressive disease. The use of high-dose carboplatin and etoposide with or without ifosfamide and ABMR was not effective in the treatment of this group of patients with PMGCT who were in second relapse or cisplatin refractory. 
Predictors of physical functioning after a cardiac event. An increased understanding of the factors that promote or hinder patients' return to optimal activity levels after a cardiac event is necessary to help them achieve this goal. Accordingly, the purpose of this study was to examine psychologic resources, depression, physical recovery, and illness severity for their relationships with subjective and objective physical functioning (exercise data). A correlational survey design was used to assess patients' (n = 46) illness responses 9 weeks after the cardiac event. Patients also participated in a symptom-limited exercise test. The findings suggested that the individual's return to greater activity levels after a cardiac illness was associated with less depression and illness severity, and higher levels of objective physical functioning, physical recovery, and self-esteem. Further, patients' objective physical functioning was associated not only with greater subjective physical functioning but also with greater levels of physical recovery and mastery. 
Electronic fetal heart monitoring, auscultation, and neonatal outcome. In a large randomized, controlled study of fetal heart rate monitoring with either continuous electronic fetal heart monitoring or auscultation at specified intervals, only one pattern of deviation in the fetal heart rate correlated significantly with neonatal neurologic examinations at 0 to 48 hours and 72 hours to 1 week: late decelerations in stage 1 and in stage 2. Other variables from labor and delivery, specifically, duration of labor after hospital admission, failure of labor to progress, number of fetal scalp pH values, and presence of meconium were important predictors of neonatal outcome in the regression analyses. The fetal heart rate deviations did contribute significantly to the percent variance accounted for in the regression analyses with neonatal outcomes of Apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes and serial neonatal neurologic examinations. 
Hydrocortisone inhibits rat basophilic leukemia cell mediator release induced by neutrophil-derived histamine releasing activity as well as by anti-IgE. We determined the ability of hydrocortisone to inhibit rat basophilic leukemia cell mediator release induced by anti-IgE and by neutrophil-derived histamine-releasing activity (HRA-N). Serotonin release induced by HRA-N and anti-IgE was inhibited by 78 +/- 5 and 70 +/- 4%, respectively (IC50 7.5 x 10(-7)M) by hydrocortisone (10(-5)M). HRA-N does not cause arachidonic acid metabolism, however, anti-IgE induced the generation of PGD2 and leukotriene (LT)C4, and the generation of both mediators was inhibited by 10(-5)M hydrocortisone (IC50 = 4.8 x 10(-7)M, and 3.6 x 10(-9)M, respectively). Inhibition required at least 5 to 6 h of hydrocortisone exposure and was maximal after 22 h. The observed effects of hydrocortisone could be reproduced by human recombinant lipocortin-I (5 x 10(-7)M). Hydrocortisone, 10(-5)M, was a less potent inhibitor of calcium ionophore A23187-mediated serotonin release and PGD2 and LTC4 generation (inhibition of 20 +/- 2, 17 +/- 10, and 37 +/- 10%, respectively). Inasmuch as A23187-induced stimulation is not dependent on receptor coupling, the enhanced ability of hydrocortisone to inhibit IgE- and HRA-N-mediated events as compared with A23187 suggests that one possible site of action of hydrocortisone may be interruption of receptor-effector signals. In the presence of arachidonic acid, hydrocortisone-treated cells released as much LTB4 and PGD2 as control cells, however, serotonin release and LTC4 generation were inhibited 50 and 55%, respectively. Thus, these data suggest that hydrocortisone has three possible sites of action: 1) inhibition of phospholipase A2 activity, 2) inhibition of glutathione-s-transferase, and 3) inhibition of serotonin release by a third mechanism, possibly by interrupting the coupling of receptor and effector systems. 
Geographic variations in the histologic characteristics of the gastric mucosa. Histologic sections of 205 gastrectomy specimens, which were obtained for benign and malignant diseases, were reviewed. All patients were Mexican nationals. The following histologic features were recorded: intestinal metaplasia, intramucosal cysts, ciliated gastric cells, and different types of pyloric cells ("ordinary"; with granular cytoplasm; with small cytoplasmic vacuoles; with large cytoplasmic vacuoles; or with homogeneous "glassy" cytoplasm). The percentage of specimens showing intestinal metaplasia was similar in those containing gastric ulcers (42.7%) or adenocarcinomas (50.0%). Intestinal metaplasia was decreased in men 59 years of age or older and in women 69 years of age or older. Diffuse-type adenocarcinoma accounted for 90% of the gastric tumors. Only 3 of the 205 specimens (1.9%) contained intramucosal cysts, and only 1 (0.4%) showed ciliated cells. Pyloric cells with granular cytoplasm were observed in 21.2% of the specimens, and pyloric cells with small cytoplasmic vacuoles were seen in 1.9%. Pyloric cells with large vacuoles or "glassy" cytoplasm were not found in any case. These results indicate differences in the proportions of several histopathologic findings in the gastric mucosa, between Mexicans and other ethnic groups that have been investigated in previous surveys. The authors' findings support the hypothesis that different environmental factors, acting in disparate geographic regions, may account for dissimilarities in the histologic appearance of "normal gastric mucosa.". 
T-lymphocyte dysfunctions occurring together with apical gut epithelial cell autoantibodies. Gut epithelial cell autoantibodies have been considered a hallmark of autoimmune enteropathy, a disorder occurring in children with protracted diarrhea of unknown etiology. Four patients (two male and two female) with such autoantibodies were studied. Immunofluorescence analysis showed two different disjunctive staining patterns: complement-fixing apical (three of four) and cytoplasmic (the remaining fourth one), which are shown to be directed against different structures. All three patients positive for complement-fixing apical gut epithelial cell autoantibodies had abnormal T-cell responses in vitro, one of them with an immunoglobulin G2 immunoglobulin deficiency and another with an immunoglobulin A deficiency. An immunoglobulin A deficiency without T-cell alterations was also diagnosed in the cytoplasmic gut epithelial cell autoantibody-positive patient. These findings suggest that different immunologic alterations (either a T-cell abnormality or immunoglobulin deficiency) may favor the appearance of gut epithelial cell autoantibodies (complement-fixing apical or cytoplasmic, respectively). Furthermore, these autoantibodies should not be considered a specific marker of autoimmune enteropathy, because they may not always be associated with such a disease: two patients with apical gut epithelial cell autoantibodies showed no signs of intestinal lesion or diarrhea. 
Age-related complications and optimal choice of artificial heart valves in elderly patients. The use of bioprosthetic heart valves in elderly patients is presently advocated by many since implanting mechanical valves are considered to result in unacceptable rates of thromboembolism and bleeding. However the somewhat limited durability of bioprostheses has to be acknowledged since a group of elderly patients will eventually require a reoperation due to tissue failure. We have evaluated our policy to implant mechanical heart valve prostheses even in elderly patients based on the conception that we believe that anticoagulation in this group of patients can be handled with a low rate of complications. 
Massive incisional hernia: abdominal wall replacement with Marlex mesh. Marlex (polypropylene) mesh was used to replace the abdominal wall in massive incisional herniation in 50 patients. Seventeen unsuccessful attempts at primary repair had previously been made on nine patients. Patient follow-up ranged from 6 to 120 months (mean = 45 months). There was minor hernia recurrence in four (8 per cent) patients. In each instance it was due to partial detachment of the peripheral fixation of the patch. Complications were: wound infection, four (8 per cent); wound seroma, two (4 per cent); wound haematoma, one (2 per cent); and wound sinus, six (12 per cent). Complications did not necessitate removal of the patch in any case. Inadequate peripheral attachment of the patch has been the only cause of hernia recurrence and should be avoidable. 
Clinical characteristics of transient ischemic attacks in black patients. We analyzed the clinical, CT, and angiographic findings in 50 black patients with carotid transient ischemic attacks (TIAs). Thirty-two percent had TIAs lasting less than 1 hour, 26% had TIAs lasting 1 to 6 hours, and 42% had TIAs lasting 6 to 24 hours. Fifty-two percent of TIA patients had CT evidence of cerebral infarction despite complete clinical recovery. CT was abnormal in two of 16 (13%) patients with TIAs lasting less than 1 hour; however, CT was abnormal in 24 of 34 (70%) patients with TIAs lasting longer than 1 hour. Angiographic findings of extracranial carotid disease appropriate to TIA symptoms were present in 12 (24%) patients. Two patients in whom the TIA episode lasted less than 1 hour later had clinical cerebral infarction, whereas 20 patients with longer-duration TIAs developed ischemic stroke within 4 months. Of these black TIA patients, 22 (44%) developed clinical cerebral infarction. 
Bilateral spontaneous perilymph fistulae: a diagnostic and management dilemma. In this article, we present a case of bilateral perilymph fistulae. This entity is rare and always presents a diagnostic problem. Bilateral perilymph fistulae are more common in children and should be suspected when bilateral ear symptoms and congenital temporal bone radiographic anomalies are present. Previous trauma or barotrauma may be absent. When a patient manifests bilateral ear symptoms and a fistula has been identified and repaired in one ear, a second fistula should be suspected in the contralateral ear, especially if the fistula test is positive. 
Influence of dilated cardiomyopathy, myocarditis and cardiac transplantation on the relation between plasma atrial natriuretic factor and atrial pressures. To determine whether dilated cardiomyopathy, myocarditis or cardiac transplantation affect the relation between plasma immunoreactive atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and cardiac filling pressures, right atrial plasma ANF concentration, pulmonary arterial wedge pressure and right atrial pressure were measured in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (n = 48), dilated cardiomyopathy secondary to myocarditis (n = 20) and prior cardiac transplantation (n = 34). ANF level significantly correlated with both pulmonary arterial wedge and right atrial pressures in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy; however, the presence or absence of myocarditis did not significantly alter these relations (p = 0.88 and p = 0.33 for interaction terms, respectively). For the combined group the ANF-pulmonary arterial wedge pressure relation had a slope of 8.1 pg/ml/mm Hg (95% confidence interval (CI), 5.4 to 10.8; p = 0.0001) and the ANF-right atrial pressure relation a slope of 13.6 pg/ml/mm Hg (CI, 8.5 to 18.7; p = 0.0001). Receiver operator curve analysis identified an optimal dividing point of ANF 150 pg/ml with 100% (CI, 72 to 100%) of patients with right atrial pressure greater than or equal to 8 mm Hg having ANF greater than or equal to 150 pg/ml, but only 56% (CI, 42 to 69%) with pressure less than 8 mm Hg having ANF less than 150 pg/ml. Unlike the patients with cardiomyopathy (with or without myocarditis), cardiac transplant recipients displayed no correlation between ANF level and either pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (p = 0.50) or right atrial pressure (p = 0.29) despite similarly elevated ANF concentrations (mean +/- standard deviation 168 (83) pg/ml in transplant patients versus 185 (114) pg/ml in cardiomyopathy patients). It is concluded that left and right intracardiac pressures are important determinants of circulating ANF level unaffected by inflammation in patients with cardiomyopathy. 
Cyst of the ligamentum flavum: report of six cases. Six cases of cyst of the ligamentum flavum with compression of a lumbar nerve root are reported. All patients exhibited recurrent back pain and sciatica. Investigation included computed tomography, myelography, or both. The correct diagnosis was reached before operation in only half the patients. High-resolution computed tomography performed in the four last patients outlined the cystic lesion with its low-density center. Surgical excision was performed in all patients. Microscopic examination showed a dense fibrous cyst arising from the ligamentum flavum. The lumen contained myxoid or necrotic material, but no epithelial lining. Cysts of the ligamentum flavum must be considered in the differential diagnosis of causes of sciatica. A firm radiological diagnosis may, at present, still require myelography combined with high-resolution computed tomography. Differentiation from synovial or ganglion cysts of the spine is discussed. 
Histopathology of incipient fundus flavimaculatus. A 9-year-old boy was diagnosed with fundus flavimaculatus in his left eye. The boy's fellow eye was enucleated at 16 months of age for retinoblastoma. The authors reviewed the material submitted for histopathologic examination and found that the retinal pigment epithelial cells demonstrated increased autofluorescence and increased reactivity to periodic acid-Schiff staining. Many cells had their melanin granules displaced toward the cell apex. The retinal pigment epithelial changes are consistent with previous histopathologic findings in fundus flavimaculatus and imply that the structural changes are seen in early life. 
Head-injured patients who talk and deteriorate into coma. Analysis of 211 cases studied with computerized tomography. Of 838 patients with severe head injuries admitted since the introduction of computerized tomography, 211 (25.1%) talked at some time between trauma and subsequent deterioration into coma. Of these 211 patients, 89 (42.2%) had brain contusion/hematoma, 46 (21.8%) an epidural hematoma, 35 (16.6%) a subdural hematoma, and 41 (19.4%) did not show focal mass lesions. Thus, four of every five patients who deteriorated into coma after suffering an apparently nonsevere head injury had a mass lesion potentially requiring surgery: the mass was intracerebral in 52.3% of the cases and extracerebral in 47.6%. Patients aged 20 years or less had a 39% chance of having a nonfocal mass lesion (diffuse brain damage), a 29% chance of having an epidural hematoma, and a 32% chance of having an intradural mass lesion; patients over 40 years had only a 3% chance of having a nonfocal mass lesion, an 18% chance of having an epidural hematoma, and a 79% chance of having a intradural mass lesion. Sixty-eight (32.2%) patients died and 143 (67.8%) survived. The following were independent outcome predictors (in order of significance): Glasgow Coma Scale score following deterioration into coma, the highest intracranial pressure during the patient's course, the degree of midline shift, the type of intracranial lesion, and the age of the patient. In contrast, the mechanism of injury, the verbal Glasgow Coma Scale score during the lucid interval, and the length of time until deterioration or until operative intervention did not influence the final result. 
Transformation-dependent activation of urokinase-type plasminogen activator by a plasmin-independent mechanism: involvement of cell surface membranes. Transformed cells produce elevated levels of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA), which has been linked with the invasive or migratory phenotype of these cells. The u-PA is secreted and normally maintained in the inactive, single-chain form (scu-PA) and it has been assumed that natural activation occurs via a plasmin-mediated cleavage converting scu-PA to the active, two-chain form (tcu-PA). We now demonstrate that secreted scu-PA in Rous sarcoma virus-transformed chicken embryo fibroblast (RSVCEF) cultures is activated by an endogenous, plasmin-independent mechanism. Normal CEFs and CEFs infected with a temperature-sensitive RSV mutant and incubated at the nonpermissive temperature do not activate scu-PA. Conditioned medium harvested from plasmin-free cultures of RSVCEFs contains active tcu-PA as determined by two independent methods. The scu-PA is progressively converted with time in culture and requires the presence of intact cells or a plasma membrane-enriched fraction. When added to RSVCEF cultures, a synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 20-41 of the growth factor domain of chicken u-PA blocks the conversion to tcu-PA, and scu-PA accumulates in the cultures. These results suggest that scu-PA is secreted by cells, becomes bound to a u-PA receptor, and is proteolytically converted to active tcu-PA by a catalytic mechanism on the surface of RSV-transformed fibroblasts. 
Early prevention of left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction with angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibition [published erratum appears in Lancet 1991 May 11;337(8750):1174] Left ventricular dysfunction can be improved with angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibition started 1 week after myocardial infarction or later. To see whether earlier intervention may confer greater benefit, a double-blind study was carried out in which 100 patients with Q wave myocardial infarction, but without clinical heart failure, were randomly allocated treatment with captopril 50 mg twice daily or placebo starting 24-48 h after onset of symptoms. Left ventricular volumes were measured regularly during 3 months of treatment and after a 48 h withdrawal period by means of two-dimensional echocardiography. The placebo group showed significant increases in left ventricular end-diastolic (LVEDVI) and end-systolic (LVESVI) volume indices, with the ejection fraction unchanged. By contrast, the captopril group showed a slight but not significant rise in LVEDVI and a significant reduction in LVESVI with ejection fraction increased significantly. At 3 months there was a 4.6% difference in the change in ejection fraction from baseline between the groups (p less than 0.0001). Most of the treatment benefit was evident at 1 month and there were no changes in left ventricular volumes after 48 h withdrawal of treatment at 3 months. Heart failure requiring treatment with frusemide developed in 7 patients in each group during the study period; 3 of these (1 captopril-treated, 2 placebo-treated) had to be withdrawn from the trial with severe heart failure requiring open treatment. Thus early treatment with captopril is effective in preventing the ventricular dilatation that can occur after Q wave myocardial infarction. 
Loss of heterozygosity on the short arm of chromosome 17 is associated with high proliferative capacity and DNA aneuploidy in primary human breast cancer. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on the short arm of chromosome 17 (17p) was found in 27 of 52 (52%) previously untreated primary breast cancers. There was a significant correlation between this 17p allelic loss and two parameters associated with aggressive tumor behavior: high cellular proliferative fraction and DNA aneuploidy. These correlations with high cellular proliferative fraction and DNA aneuploidy were not found in tumors with LOH at nine other chromosome locations. The p53 gene, a putative tumor suppressor gene located at 17p13, was examined for aberrations to determine whether it is the target for the 17p LOH in breast cancer. Unlike other types of human cancer, there were no homozygous deletions or rearrangements of the p53 gene, and only 2 of 13 (15%) were mutated in the conserved region where mutational "hot spots" have been previously located. Therefore, we hypothesize that, in breast cancer, either loss or inactivation of gene(s) on chromosome 17p other than the p53 gene or a different mechanism of p53 gene inactivation may be responsible for the observed high labeling index and DNA aneuploidy associated with LOH at 17p. 
Transurethral resection of prostate prior to definitive irradiation for prostate cancer. Lack of correlation with treatment outcome. From 1970 through 1983, 107 patients with newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the prostate were treated with radiotherapy with curative intent at Duke University Medical Center. Forty-five patients (42%) underwent transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) for diagnostic and/or therapeutic purposes prior to beginning radiotherapy. Sixty-one patients (57%) were diagnosed by needle biopsy. TURP and needle biopsy groups were comparable (age, elevated acid phosphatase, early [A2, B] and late [C, D1] disease stages, and follow-up). TURP patients were more likely to have poorly differentiated tumors and were more often given concurrent hormonal therapy. Both univariate and multivariate analyses to study the effect of TURP on patients with prostate cancer treated with radiotherapy were done. We were unable to demonstrate any adverse impact of TURP on the outcome of radiation therapy for prostate cancer. This issue remains controversial and should be addressed in a prospective, randomized trial. 
Cerebral potentials evoked by painful, laser stimuli in patients with syringomyelia. Brief cutaneous heat stimuli generated by a CO2 laser were used to elicit late somatosensory evoked cerebral potentials (SEPc) in 10 patients with syringomyelia. For comparison, early and late cerebral potentials in response to electrical nerve stimuli (SEPn) were recorded in the same session. In 8 patients with localized impairment of pain and temperature sensitivity we found complete absence of SEPc after stimulation of the affected area; in another patient with similar sensory deficits, the SEPc was grossly attenuated and delayed. In 1 patient with intact pain sensitivity but absent temperature sensitivity, a well defined SEPc could be recorded. Both early cortical SEPn and late SEPn in response to conventional nerve stimuli were normal in all patients and thus did not differentiate control and affected areas. These data indicate that alteration of SEPc correlates with altered pain sensitivity in patients with a circumscribed spinal lesion. SEPc may thus be used as a neurophysiological test in the assessment of hypalgesic dermatomes. 
The role of the transcerebellar view in the detection of fetal central nervous system anomaly. The current resolution of antenatal ultrasonography permits the sonologist to visualize and critically evaluate the cerebellum and cisterna magna. Abnormalities in the size and shape of these structures will assist the sonologist in the detection of the majority of central nervous system malformations. 
Invasive aspergillosis of the maxilla in an immunocompromised patient. Patients who are immunocompromised have a high susceptibility to infection, which can be fatal. Studies have shown that patients receiving chemotherapeutic and adjunctive medications have inhibited inflammatory response to microbes, particularly those increasing the potential for the development of invasive infection. Aspergillus is a fungus often found in the atmosphere. Colonization of Aspergillus in the upper respiratory tract is common. In the immunocompromised patient, Aspergillus flavus is found to be the most frequent fungus cultured in the maxillary sinus. Because of the depressed immunologic state of the patient, A. flavus can differentiate into hyphal forms producing toxins that destroy epithelial tissues. Penetration of Aspergillus into connective and vascular tissue produces thrombosis and ultimately necrosis of hard and soft tissue. 
Total parenteral nutrition and tumor metastasis. A major clinical concern with providing total parenteral nutrition to the tumor-bearing host is the potential to stimulate tumor growth. This study was performed to determine the effect of total parenteral nutrition on primary tumor growth and spontaneous pulmonary metastasis in Lobund rats with subcutaneous prostate adenocarcinoma (PA-III) implants. Significant acceleration of primary tumor growth and tumor metastasis occurred in animals receiving parenteral nutrition consisting of amino acids, dextrose, and lipid or standard enteral nutrition compared to control animals. This study represents the first report of stimulating tumor metastasis with specific parenteral nutrients and clearly indicates that both primary tumor growth and tumor metastasis can be altered by exogenous substrate administration. 
Peptic ulcer pathophysiology. Despite extensive research, the etiology of peptic ulcer disease remains unclear. Given the multiple processes that control acid and pepsin secretion and defense and repair of the gastroduodenal mucosa, it is likely that the cause of ulceration differs between individuals. Acid and pepsin appear to be necessary but not sufficient ingredients in the ulcerative process. It is clear that the majority of gastric ulcers and a substantial number of duodenal ulcers do not have increased gastric acid secretion. Recent research has focused more on protection and repair of the stomach and duodenum. NSAIDs cause a significant number of gastric and duodenal ulcers; this is probably due to inhibition of prostaglandin production with loss of its protective effects. In the absence of NSAIDs and gastrinoma, it appears that most gastric ulcers and all duodenal ulcers occur in the setting of H. pylori infection. Evidence is mounting in support of H. pylori as a necessary ingredient in the ulcerative process, similar to acid and pepsin. It is not known whether the bacteria or the accompanying inflammation is the more important factor in the pathophysiology. Although the pathophysiology of gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer is similar, there are clearly differences between the two groups. Duodenal ulcer is typified by H. pylori infection and duodenitis and in many cases impaired duodenal bicarbonate secretion in the face of moderate increases in acid and peptic activity. These facts suggest the following process: increased peptic activity coupled with decreased duodenal buffering capacity may lead to increased mucosal injury and result in gastric metaplasia. In the presence of antral H. pylori, the gastric metaplasia can become colonized and inflamed. The inflammation or the infection itself then disrupts the process of mucosal defense or regeneration resulting in ulceration. A cycle of further injury and increased inflammation with loss of the framework for regeneration may then cause a chronic ulcer. Gastric ulcer often occurs with decreased acid-peptic activity, suggesting that mucosal defensive impairments are more important. The combination of inflammation, protective deficiencies, and moderate amounts of acid and pepsin may be enough to induce ulceration. Many questions remain in understanding the pathophysiology of peptic ulcer disease. The physiology and pathophysiology of mucosal regeneration and the mechanisms by which H. pylori and inflammation disrupt normal gastroduodenal function will be fruitful areas of future investigation. 
Prostaglandin-stimulated recovery of the human duodenal epithelium: effects of misoprostol on ethanol damage. This study was designed to determine whether prostaglandins can stimulate the repair of human duodenal epithelium. Ten healthy volunteers were given 50 ml 40% ethanol through an endoscope onto the duodenal mucosa 1-7 cm from the pyloric sphincter; 3 min later, misoprostol (200 micrograms) or inert vehicle (5 ml) was given locally in the same way. One and 5 h later, endoscopy was repeated to evaluate the damage. The conditions of the mucosa were evaluated by endoscopy and by scanning and transmission electron microscopy in biopsies taken at time 0 and 3 min, 1 and 5 h after ethanol. The study was double-blind with a cross-over balanced design. Three minutes after ethanol administration, the duodenal mucosa showed hyperemia with hemorrhagic lesions. Under the electron microscope, the lesions were caused by vascular engorgement or red blood cell extravasation into the submucosa; the epithelium underlining lesions showed loss of superficial cells and damage to the upper layer of the mucosa. One hour after ethanol, there was a striking difference between the two treatment groups, with a substantial recovery of the duodenal epithelium in the misoprostol-treated volunteers. Although spontaneous recovery was evident in the control group, there was also a significant difference at 5 h. Our results suggest that prostaglandins are able to stimulate the recovery of the duodenal epithelium after acute damage. 
Relation between p53 overexpression and established prognostic factors in breast cancer. The nuclear phosphoprotein p53 is expressed in all normal cells and appears to function in cell cycle regulation. Abnormally high levels of the protein are found in many different types of cancer. In breast carcinoma overexpression of p53 is associated with point mutations within highly conserved regions of the p53 gene. These altered genes encode stable p53 proteins that can be detected by standard immunohistochemical techniques unable to detect rapidly degraded wild-type protein. The level of p53 expression in 184 primary breast cancer specimens was assessed by immunohistochemical analysis and related to the following established prognostic factors for breast cancer: age, stage, metastatic involvement, concentration of estrogen and progesterone receptors, proliferative index, and HER-2/neu overexpression. Fifty (27%) of these primary breast cancer specimens had widespread overexpression of p53. Highly significant associations were found between p53 overexpression and late stage, metastatic spread, and low concentration of progesterone receptors. The presence of elevated levels of mutant p53 may itself be a prognostic factor in human breast cancer and activation of this oncogene may be important in the ability of a tumor to metastasize. 
Angiographic management of retroperitoneal hemorrhage from renal angiomyolipoma in polycystic kidney disease. Angiographic management of bilateral angiomyolipomas complicated by hemorrhage in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is presented. The patient had mild stigmata of tuberous sclerosis, and a family history of tuberous sclerosis and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. The radiographic features at diagnosis, and those present during and after embolization are described. Radiological criteria for diagnosis and successful control of bleeding with intra-arterial selective embolization are discussed. Radiographic features before, during and after embolization are exhibited. 
Combined interferon alfa and doxorubicin in the treatment of advanced cervical cancer. Interferon alfa and doxorubicin have been shown to have synergistic effects when tested in vitro with cells derived from cervical cancers. A clinical trial was designed, testing interferon alfa plus doxorubicin in patients with advanced or recurrent cervical cancers. Twenty-one patients were given interferon alfa, 10 million units per square meter intramuscularly and 10 million units per square meter intravenously over a 30-minute infusion period. One hour later 20 mg/m2 doxorubicin was given intravenously slowly over a 2-hour period. Treatments were repeated once weekly for 3 weeks. Initial response evaluation was done at week 5, and treatment was continued on an every-other-week schedule for patients showing favorable responses or stable disease. Bone marrow, hepatic, and renal toxicities were minimal. Fever and malaise were the major sources of toxicity. Of the 17 evaluable patients, six had clinical partial responses. Two of the responders have enjoyed more than 5 years' survival. This regimen is well tolerated and does have efficacy in some patients with advanced cervical cancers. 
Proteus syndrome. Ultrastructural study of linear verrucous and depigmented nevi. Proteus syndrome is a rare hamartomatous disorder characterized by multifocal overgrowths that can involve any structure of the body. Clinical manifestations include macrodactyly, hemihypertrophy, subcutaneous masses, exostosis, cerebroid thickening of palms and soles, and linear skin lesions. About 50 cases have been described, but the ultrastructural features of the linear skin lesions have not been characterized. We describe the clinical, histologic, and ultrastructural findings for a 30-year-old patient who had a mild form of Proteus syndrome with linear lesions characterized by a mixed pattern of hyperkeratosis and depigmentation. Light microscopy of the linear nevus showed acanthosis and hyperorthokeratosis. Electron microscopy revealed extensive vacuolation at the interface between melanocytes and keratinocytes, with large aggregations of densely packed granules in the intercellular space. Melanocytes showed only slight degenerative changes. An immunohistochemical study of the expression of epidermal growth factor receptors revealed no significant abnormalities. 
Causes of death in patients with tuberous sclerosis. Of the 355 patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) examined at the Mayo Clinic, 49 had died (9 of causes other than TSC). We attempted to determine what pattern of organ involvement occurred most often in the 40 patients who died of TSC. One baby died of cardiac failure due to cardiac rhabdomyomas, and one child died of rupture of an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. Eleven patients died of renal disease, which was the commonest cause of death. Ten patients died as a result of brain tumors, and four patients (who were 40 years of age or older) died of lymphangiomyomatosis of the lung. Thirteen patients with severe mental handicaps died of either status epilepticus or bronchopneumonia; in all but one of these patients, the only source of information was the death certificate. Survival curves show a decreased survival for patients with TSC in comparison with that for the general population. Patients with TSC need lifelong follow-up for early detection of potentially life-threatening complications. 
Descriptive epidemiologic study of epilepsy syndromes in a district of northwest Tuscany, Italy. To evaluate the prevalence of epilepsy syndromes in a district in Northwest Tuscany (Vecchiano, 9,952 inhabitants) we identified all suspected cases (probable epilepsy) from several information sources: files of local doctors, prescriptions of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), hospital files from the center for epilepsy at the University of Pisa, medical files from university and hospital departments in Pisa, and files of the school doctors and social workers in the district of Vecchiano. All persons suspected of having epilepsy were examined; 51 cases of epilepsy were found, i.e., a prevalence rate of 5.1 in 1,000. During a previous study performed in the same district with the "house-to-house" method, a lower rate was found. Our study confirms that use of different epidemiologic investigational methods can produce different results. 
Future directions of laser phototherapy for diagnosis and treatment of malignancies: fantasy, fallacy, or reality? A new and highly promising adjunctive modality for the diagnosis and therapy of malignancies is under development using lasers and tumor targeting dyes. To reach the eventual goal of clinical treatment, several current "fantasies and fallacies" regarding laser applications in medicine must be identified and their problems clearly outlined. A multidisciplinary scientific approach is also required to enable the clinical practicality of this laser targeting approach. Many new dyes and laser wavelengths are being tested to improve specific tumor uptake and/or retention, lower systemic toxicity, increase tissue penetration, and identify fluorochromes with synergistic properties to further enhance laser tumoricidal effects. Rapid technological advancements in magnetic resonance imaging may now provide an extremely sensitive way to detect and monitor laser-tissue effects, and allow efficient interstitial laser phototherapy of deep and sometimes inaccessible tumors. The current and future prospectives of the emerging field of laser phototherapy are described. 
Cardiomyopathy of the aging human heart. Myocyte loss and reactive cellular hypertrophy. To determine the effects of aging on the human myocardium, 67 hearts were obtained from individuals who died from causes other than cardiovascular disease. The age interval examined was 17-90 years. Regression analysis demonstrated that the aging process was characterized by a loss of 38 million and 14 million myocyte nuclei/yr in the left and right ventricular myocardium, respectively. This loss in muscle mass was accompanied by a progressive increase in myocyte cell volume per nucleus in both ventricles. Left ventricular myocytes enlarged by 110 microns3/yr, whereas right ventricular myocytes increased by 118 microns3/yr, resulting in a preservation of ventricular wall thickness. However, the cellular hypertrophic response was unable to maintain normal cardiac mass. Left and right ventricular weights decreased by 0.70 and 0.21 g/yr, respectively. In conclusion, loss of cells and enlargement of the remaining myocytes may represent the structural basis for the reduced compensatory capacity of the aged heart and together may contribute to the development of myocardial dysfunction and failure in the elderly. 
Age-related changes in the clinical and electrophysiologic characteristics of patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome: comparative study between young and elderly patients. The natural history of patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome remains an intriguing question with respect to clinical decision-making, since serial electrophysiologic data spread over several decades in the same patient are not available in the literature. To study the age-related changes in WPW syndrome, we compared two separate groups of patients referred to this Medical Center for electrophysiologic studies because of a clinical presentation with significant arrhythmias. An elderly group of 42 patients aged 50 years or more were compared with a younger group of 51 patients aged 15 to 30 years. The groups were comparable in terms of clinical presentation, including the number of patients who had reported syncopal episodes and those requiring cardioversion of their tachyarrhythmias. Baseline electrophysiologic variables such as sinus rate; sinoatrial conduction time; corrected sinus node recovery time; AH interval; and effective refractory periods of the right atrium, atrioventricular (AV) node, and right ventricular muscle, were significantly greater in the elderly group. Similarly, the anterograde effective refractory period of the bypass tract, the shortest atrial pacing cycle length with 1:1 anterograde conduction via the bypass tract, retrograde effective refractory period of the bypass tract, the shortest ventricular pacing cycle length with 1:1 retrograde conduction via the bypass tract, the shortest consecutive preexcited R-R interval during atrial fibrillation, and the cycle length of orthodromic atrial ventricular reciprocating tachycardia were significantly greater in the elderly group. 
Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver: MR findings in 35 proved cases. MR images of 28 patients with 35 lesions of hepatic focal nodular hyperplasia were reviewed to determine the frequency of findings considered typical of this condition (isointensity on T1- and T2-weighted pulse sequences, a central hyperintense scar on T2-weighted images, and homogeneous signal intensity). Fifteen lesions were imaged at 0.6 T with T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo (SE) pulse sequences; 20 lesions were imaged at 1.5 T with T1-weighted SE and gradient-echo pulse sequences and T2-weighted SE pulse sequences. Diagnosis of focal nodular hyperplasia was made pathologically in 25 patients, with nuclear scintigraphy in four, and with follow-up imaging in six. Only seven lesions (20%) were isointense relative to normal liver on both T1- and T2-weighted images. On T1-weighted SE images, 21 lesions (60%) were isointense relative to normal liver, 12 (34%) were hypointense, and two (6%) were hyperintense. On T2-weighted SE images, 12 lesions (34%) were isointense and 23 (66%) were hyperintense relative to normal liver. A central scar was present in 17 lesions (49%) and was hypointense relative to the lesion on T1-weighted images and hyperintense on T2-weighted images. Twenty lesions (57%) were of homogeneous signal intensity throughout the lesion, except for the presence of a central scar. All three MR imaging characteristics were present in three cases (9%). We conclude that hepatic focal nodular hyperplasia has a wide range of signal intensity on MR imaging. 
Mixed venous oxygen saturation for differentiating stable from unstable tachycardias. Current antitachycardia systems are incapable of adequately distinguishing stable from unstable tachycardias. Previously, integration of a pressure sensor or an impedance sensor, together with electrogram analysis, has been investigated as an improved method of identifying unstable arrhythmias. A mixed venous oxygen saturation sensor was investigated for differentiating stable from unstable paced and induced tachycardias in 10 patients. During rapid pacing at 600, 500, 400, 350, 300, and 250 msec cycle lengths, mixed venous oxygen saturation decreased as cycle length decreased. For any given cycle length, rapid ventricular pacing tended to result in greater mixed venous oxygen desaturation compared with atrial pacing. Mixed venous oxygen saturation decreased similarly during induced ventricular tachycardias at cycle lengths greater than 230 msec. However, ventricular tachycardias at cycle lengths less than or equal to 230 msec and ventricular fibrillation had no effect on mixed venous oxygen saturation until after termination. Subsequently, a mixed venous oxygen saturation-tiered therapy algorithm (cycle length less than or equal to 230 msec = unstable; cycle length greater than 230 msec and MVO2 greater than or equal to 6% over 30 seconds = unstable) was developed and was tested retrospectively in 113 paced and induced tachyarrhythmias in these 10 patients for detecting unstable tachycardias (defined as a decrease from baseline systolic arterial pressure of greater than or equal to 50 mm Hg at 15 seconds). The mixed venous oxygen algorithm had 93% sensitivity and 96% specificity compared with rate-only (rate greater than or equal to 170 beats/min) detection with 93% sensitivity and 71% specificity. 
Recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor after chemotherapy in patients with acute myeloid leukemia at higher age or after relapse. To reduce critical neutropenia after chemotherapy (CT) for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) we administered recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to patients over the age of 65 years with newly diagnosed AML and to patients with early or second relapse. CT was 9-day 6-thioguanine, ara-C, and daunorubicin (TAD9) in newly diagnosed AML and sequential high-dose ara-C and mitoxantrone (S-HAM) for relapse. In patients whose bone marrow was free from blasts a continuous intravenous infusion of GM-CSF 250 micrograms/m2/d started on day 4 after CT. Thirty-six patients entered the study and 30 of them did receive GM-CSF. For comparison, a historical control group of 56 patients was used. Complete remission rate was 50% (18 of 36) versus 32% in controls (P = .09), and early death rate was 14% versus 39% (P = .009). Treatment with GM-CSF was not associated with major adverse events. Two patients showed a marked leukemic regrowth that was completely reversible in one patient and appeared to be GM-CSF independent in the other patient. Remission duration does not seem to be reduced after GM-CSF. Under GM-CSF the blood neutrophils recovered 6 and 9 days earlier in the TAD9 (P = .009) and S-HAM (P = .043) groups associated with a rapid clearance of infections in most patients. We conclude that GM-CSF was of therapeutic benefit to our patients and this provides a basis for larger controlled trials. 
HTLV-I-associated myelopathy in a patient with adult T-cell leukemia. Disseminated erythematous papules and plaques developed in a 60-year-old man 3 years before the appearance of neurologic manifestations. A biopsy specimen of the plaque revealed Pautrier's microabscess and a dense mononuclear cell infiltration with atypical convoluted nuclei in the papillary dermis. These cells were helper/inducer T lymphocytes that expressed the interleukin 2 receptor. The patient's white blood cell count was normal, but 1% atypical lymphocytes and a high titer of anti-human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV)-I antibody were detected in his serum. A smoldering type of adult T-cell leukemia was diagnosed. While he was being treated with PUVA, a gait disturbance developed. A high titer of anti-HTLV-I antibody, characteristic of HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, was demonstrated in his cerebrospinal fluid. 
Venous thrombosis after long-term transvenous pacing in the Chinese. To determine the incidence of venous thrombosis after long-term transvenous pacing in the Chinese, venograms were performed in 50 consecutive Chinese patients seen at the pacemaker clinic. There were 25 women and 25 men. The mean age was sixty-six years (range thirty-two to eighty-one). The indications for pacing were complete heart block in 16 patients and sick sinus syndrome in the remainder. All pacemakers were of the single-chamber ventricular pacing type and had been implanted for a mean period of four years (range two to seven). In 27 patients the route of entry for the pacing electrode was through the cephalic vein and in the other 23 patients the subclavian veins were used. Of the 50 venograms, 1 showed partial and 1 showed total obstruction at the subclavian vein. Both patients (4%) were asymptomatic. All others (96%) were normal. The incidence of venous thrombosis was not related to the routes of entry of the pacing electrodes. All patients tolerated the procedure well and had no complications. It is concluded that the incidence of venous thrombosis after long-term transvenous pacing is extremely low in the Chinese (4%), and venograms are both safe and useful for identifying venous thrombosis related to transvenous pacing. 
The 10-y incidence of obesity and major weight gain in black and white US women aged 30-55 y. Although the prevalence of obesity in US women is well-described, data are limited on the incidence of major weight gain and obesity. We used data from the First National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Epidemiologic Follow-up Study to estimate the 10-y incidence of major weight gain (greater than or equal to 10 kg) and obesity [body mass index (BMI, in kg/m2) greater than or equal to 29] in a cohort of US women aged 30-55 y (n = 535 blacks and 2976 whites). In women not obese at baseline, blacks were 60% more likely to become obese than whites [incidence in blacks = 15.5%, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 11.2-19.7; incidence in whites = 9.7%, 95% CI = 8.6-10.8]. This higher incidence of obesity in blacks was largely due to their higher average BMI at baseline. The incidence of major weight gain was 50% higher in blacks than in whites (in blacks, 17.3%; 95% CI = 13.6-21.0; in whites, 11.7%; 95% CI = 10.3-13.1). We estimate that in black and white women, respectively, 16% and 12% of coronary heart disease is attributed to major weight gain whereas 35% and 21% is attributed to being obese. 
Development of the pulmonary vasculature in newborn lambs: structure-function relationships. Our objectives were 1) to describe the quantitative light microscopy and ultrastructure of newborn lamb lungs and 2) to correlate hemodynamic changes during normoxia and hypoxia with the morphology. By light microscopy, we measured the percent muscle thickness (%MT) and peripheral muscularization of pulmonary arteries and veins from 25 lambs aged less than 24 h, 2-4 days, 2 wk, and 1 mo. At the same ages, lungs were isolated and perfused in situ and, after cyclooxygenase blockade with indomethacin, total, arterial (delta Pa), middle (delta Pm), and venous pressure gradients at inspired O2 fractions of 0.28 (mild hyperoxia) and 0.04 (hypoxia) were determined with inflow-outflow occlusion. During mild hyperoxia, delta Pa and delta Pm fell significantly between 2-4 days and 2 wk, whereas during hypoxia, only delta Pm fell. The %MT of all arteries (less than 50 to greater than 1,000 microns diam) decreased, and peripheral muscularization of less than 100-microns-diam arteries fell between less than 4 days and greater than 2 wk. Our data suggest that 1) the %MT of arteries determines normoxic pulmonary vascular resistance, because only arterial and middle segment resistance fell, 2) peripheral muscularization is a major determinant of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction, because we observed a fall with age in peripheral muscularization of less than 100-micron-diam arteries and in delta Pm with hypoxia, and 3) the arterial limit of the middle segment defined by inflow-outflow occlusion lies in 100- to 1,000-microns-diam arteries. 
IgA antigliadin antibodies, cellobiose/mannitol sugar test, and carotenemia in the diagnosis of and screening for celiac disease. Serum IgA antigliadin antibodies (IgAAGA) assay, cellobiose/mannitol sugar permeability test (ST), and carotenemia were evaluated prospectively as diagnostic tests in 60 consecutive adult patients with suspected celiac disease (CD). CD was confirmed histologically in 26 patients. IgAAGA, ST, and carotenemia had a sensitivity of 65.4%, 96.2%, and 76.9%, a specificity of 97.1%, 73.5%, and 70.6%, and positive likelihood ratio of 22.2, 3.6, and 2.6, respectively. Multivariate logistic regression showed that IgAAGA and ST had a sensitivity and specificity of 96.2% and 70.6% and a positive likelihood ratio of 47.3 if both were positive. Assuming a prevalence of CD of 1:2000 in the general population, for every 89 positive IgAAGA and 549 altered ST there would be one celiac patient, whereas, if both tests were positive, the patient was certain to have CD. We conclude that, of the tests studied, IgAAGA and ST are respectively the most specific and the most sensitive and that, used together, they can diagnose CD. 
Conjunctival cysts in anophthalmic orbits. Five out of 149 patients (3%) who received an intraorbital implant to prevent or treat the disfiguring symptoms associated with the postenucleation socket syndrome developed intraorbital conjunctival cysts. All five patients had received a secondary implant two 14 months previously. After excision of the cysts four patients required additional surgery for lack of conjunctiva and/or recurrent cyst formation. The clinical findings, mechanism of development, and management of this rare but serious complication of socket surgery are described. 
GM1-gangliosidosis (genetic beta-galactosidase deficiency): identification of four mutations in different clinical phenotypes among Japanese patients. GM1-gangliosidosis is a genetic neurological disorder caused by mutations in the lysosomal acid beta-galactosidase gene. While its phenotypic expression is complex, it is usually classified as being of infantile, juvenile, or adult form, on the basis of age at onset, the rate of symptomatic progression, and severity of central nervous system involvement. We have analyzed the acid beta-galactosidase gene in 12 Japanese patients from nine families. The aim was to identify mutations in individual patients and then to examine possible correlation between the mutations and the clinical phenotypes. Northern blotting studies with a full-length human beta-galactosidase cDNA showed that the mRNA ranged from undetectable to substantially decreased in the infantile patients but was normal in quantity and size in all juvenile and adult patients. Four distinct missense mutations have been identified, each limited to the respective clinical forms within our small-size samples. In the infantile patient with decreased but detectable mRNA, a point mutation was found resulting in Arg49----Cys. In the infantile patient with nearly undetectable mRNA, mutation Arg457----Ter was identified. The mutation Arg201----Cys was found in all four of the juvenile patients, while all six adult patients were homozygous for the point mutation Ile51----Thr. The mutations found in the juvenile and adult patients alter restriction sites in the normal gene and thus are amendable to quick screening. The prediction that these mutations are responsible for the clinical disease was confirmed by no expression of the catalytic activity of the mutant proteins in the COS-I cell expression system. 
Biocompatibility of radiolucent breast implants. Current implants for breast augmentation containing silicone gel, saline, or both are radiopaque on mammographic examination and can totally obscure microcalcifications and soft-tissue masses. The effect of these implants on the detection of early breast cancers in patients who have undergone augmentation mammaplasty remains unproven and controversial. Implants filled with medium-chain triglycerides (peanut oil) are radiolucent on mammographic examination and allow visualization of both soft-tissue masses and microcalcifications. To investigate the biocompatibility of radiolucent implants, 10 cc of sterile, nonpyrogenic peanut oil was injected subcutaneously into rats using silicone gel as a control. Twenty-one rabbits had two 125-cc silicone shell implants inserted on either side of the chest wall. The right-sided shell was filled with 125 cc of sterile saline, and the left-sided shell was filled with 125 cc of sterile, nonpyrogenic peanut oil. Results were determined by both histologic and radiographic examination. Rats injected with peanut oil equivalent to 7 percent of their body weight rapidly absorbed the freely injected oil without detriment. Histologic examination of the lungs, liver, kidneys, and tissues adjacent to the injection sites demonstrated no abnormalities. There was no evidence of allergic, toxic, inflammatory, or neoplastic response. Eighteen of 21 rabbits survived more than 3 months. Radiographs showed the oil-filled implants to be radiolucent, whereas the saline-filled controls obscured the surrounding soft and bony tissues. Histologic examination demonstrated a fibrous capsule surrounding both types of implants. Histologic examination of the lungs, liver, and kidneys showed no significant abnormalities. These and previous studies have shown peanut oil to be biocompatible when freely injected either intramuscularly or subcutaneously. This study demonstrates that a radiolucent, peanut oil-filled implant is biocompatible in animals and that further long-term studies for its use in humans are merited. 
Metabolic and destructive brain disorders in children: findings with localized proton MR spectroscopy. The diagnostic potential of volume-selective proton magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy in vivo was evaluated in 20 children and young adults with various neurodegenerative brain disorders. All patients were examined with MR spectroscopy in conjunction with MR imaging of the brain on a whole-body imager at 1.5 T. Comparison of spectra in our patients with those of children with normal myelination (prominent signals from N-acetylaspartate [NAA], creatine/phosphocreatine, and choline) revealed a marked decrease of NAA in 12 of 17 patients with focal or generalized demyelination. In patients with Canavan disease, NAA signal intensity was markedly increased, but no choline signal was found. Increased signal intensity from lactate occurred in patients with Leigh disease, neuroaxonal dystrophy, Schilder disease, and Cockayne disease, which indicated a disturbed energy metabolism in the examined region. These results demonstrate that proton MR spectroscopy can be applied in a clinical environment to facilitate diagnosis of hereditary and acquired brain disorders in children. 
Longitudinal followup of patients with Meniere's disease. The etiology, pathophysiology, and natural history of Meniere's syndrome are poorly understood. The reported studies have had inadequate followup or insufficient numbers of patients to allow conclusions about the natural history. Our study group was 119 patients who had the classic symptom complex of episodic vertigo, tinnitus, and hearing loss in the year 1970. After initial review of these charts, follow-up information was obtained by questionnaire, telephone interview, chart review, or repeat examination, when possible, both in 1983 and in 1988, for a total followup of 18 years. In the patients with followups of at least 14 years, vertiginous episodes had disappeared completely in 50% of patients and somewhat resolved in 28%; hearing was absent in 48% and worse in 21%. Surprisingly, 43% of patients underwent surgery at some point for control of vertigo. Bilateral disease was present initially in 13% and developed subsequently in 45% of patients. Other areas reviewed included the efficacy of long-term medical treatment, frequency and severity of vertiginous attacks, and contralateral ear symptoms. 
Increased intestinal permeability in endotoxic pigs. Mesenteric hypoperfusion as an etiologic factor. Infusing pigs with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) decreases superior mesenteric artery blood flow (Qsma), suggesting that mesenteric hypoperfusion may be responsible for LPS-induced alterations in gut mucosal permeability. To test this hypothesis, we studied four groups of anesthetized swine. Group 1 animals (N = 6) were infused with LPS (250 micrograms/kg over 1 hour beginning at 60 minutes) and continuously resuscitated with Ringer's lactate (48 mL/kg per hour). In group 2 (N = 5), Qsma was decreased by 50% by means of a mechanical occluder to mimic the LPS-induced alterations in Qsma observed in group I. Group 3 (N = 5) was included to document our ability to detect ischemia/reperfusion-induced alterations in mucosal permeability; in these pigs, Qsma was decreased in steps to zero flow (at 150 to 210 minutes) and then perfusion was restored (at 210 to 270 minutes). Pigs in group 4 (N = 6) served as normal controls; these animals were resuscitated with Ringer's lactate at the same rate as in group 1 but were not infused with LPS. To assess mucosal permeability, we measured plasma-to-lumen clearances for two markers, chromium 51-labeled edetic acid monohydrate (EDTA) and urea. Loading and maintenance infusions of the markers were given intravenously, and a 20-cm isolated segment of small intestine was continuously perfused at 2 mL/min with Ringer's lactate at 37 degrees C. Results were expressed as the ratio of the clearances for the two probes (CEDTA/CUREA). In group 3, CEDTA/CUREA was 999% +/- 355% of baseline at 270 minutes. In group 1, CEDTA/CUREA was 572% +/- 235% of baseline at 270 minutes. In groups 2 and 4, however, CEDTA/CUREA did not change significantly from the baseline value over the duration of the study. These data suggest that increased mucosal permeability after LPS is due to factors other than (or in addition to) mesenteric hypoperfusion. 
Characteristics of patients resistant to antihypertensive drug therapy. In order to determine the features that characterize refractory hypertension (RH), patients aged less than 65 years in a hypertension clinic were screened. Thirty-six patients on triple drug therapy with a supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of greater than or equal to 5 mmHg above an identified target pressure (90-100 mmHg), or a systolic blood pressure (SBP) greater than or equal to 170 mmHg for the last 6 months (greater than or equal to 3 measurements) underwent a thorough clinical investigation. The frequency of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in the RH patients was 30%. The non-RAS patients had a low occupational status, 76% being either manual workers or unskilled non-manual workers (reference group: 42%; P less than 0.01). They were more obese (body mass index (BMI) 28.8 vs. 25.8; P less than 0.01), and had a longer duration of hypertensive disease. RH patients had a higher prevalence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (18 vs. 6%; P less than 0.05), and showed a higher prevalence of nervous complaints and mental distress (44% vs. 12%; P less than 0.001) and musculo-skeletal pain (39% vs. 7%: P less than 0.001). It is suggested that refractory hypertension should be investigated and treated bearing psychosocial factors in mind, concurrently with a screening for secondary hypertension. 
Transcanal infracochlear approach to the petrous apex. Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging have now made it possible to reliably differentiate cholesteatoma from cholesterol granuloma of the petrous apex. The treatment for cholesteatoma is complete surgical excision when possible, whereas cholesterol granuloma needs only adequate drainage for control. A new transcanal infracochlear approach for drainage of cholesterol granuloma involving the anterior petrous apex is described. Absolute measurements from 10 cadaveric temporal bones were obtained to determine the distances between the cochlea, jugular bulb, carotid artery, and facial nerve. In all specimens the petrous apex was entered without invading the cochlea, carotid, or jugular bulb. Advantages of this technique include a more direct route to the petrous apex, dependent drainage, and preservation of the normal hearing mechanism, including the tympanic membrane. Clinical indications for this technique include failure of other treatment approaches and a high jugular bulb obstructing an infralabyrinthine approach. Experience to date shows that patients experience little difficulty from the procedure. 
Insulin pulses less effective than continuous insulin in inhibiting PEPCK mRNA levels stimulated by cAMP and dexamethasone in perifused hepatoma cells. Hepatic glucose production is stimulated in vitro twice as effectively by pulsatile as by continuous glucagon, given equivalent time-averaged doses. Efficacy studies of pulsatile insulin have yielded conflicting results. In the rat hepatoma cell line H-4-II-E-C3, insulin rapidly (t1/2 15 min) inhibits transcription of the gene and lowers mRNA levels for the gluconeogenic enzyme. PEPCK via a receptor-mediated process. We attached H-4-II-E-C3 cells to Cytodex-3 microcarriers and used a perifusion column system to test whether pulsatile insulin is more or less effective than equivalent time-averaged doses of continuous insulin. PEPCK transcription was induced by inclusion of cAMP analogue 8-(4-chlorophenyl-thio)-cAMP (0.1 mM) and dexamethasone (0.5 microM) in the perifusion medium. Three columns were exposed either to continuous, pulsatile, or no insulin. After 3 h, total nucleic acid was extracted, and mRNA(PEPCK) was measured with a sensitive-solution hybridization assay. Continuous insulin inhibited PEPCK expression in a dose-dependent fashion with EC50 1 x 10(-11) M. Equivalent time-averaged amounts of insulin delivered as pulses achieved significant inhibition but less effectively than continuous insulin. The apparent EC50 for pulsatile insulin increased from 2 x 10(-11) M to 5 x 10(-11) M as the oscillatory period was raised from 5 to 20 min, respectively. These observations suggest that insulin-mediated inhibition of PEPCK gene transcription is diminished by a pulsatile mode of administration in marked contrast to the pulse enhancement demonstrated for glucagon-mediated hepatic glucose production. 
The clinical utility of prostate-specific antigen and bone scintigraphy in prostate cancer follow-up. To assess the value of serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in prostate cancer follow-up, we prospectively studied 107 consecutive patients with: (1) pathologically confirmed prostate cancer; (2) definitive prostatectomy and/or radiation therapy greater than or equal to 3 mo prior to bone scanning; and (3) one bone scan and serum PSA sampling within 3 mo of each other. The mean and range of patient follow-up since definitive therapy was 1.6 and 0.5-8 yr, respectively. Abnormal bone scans were correlated with pertinent radiographs. Of 107 bone scans, 16 demonstrated metastatic bone disease. A PSA value of less than or equal to 8 ng/ml excluded bone metastases with a predictive value of a negative test of 98.5%. Without radiographic correlation, abnormal bone scans rarely represented metastases if the PSA value was less than or equal to 8 ng/ml. In summary, serum PSA concentration determines the need for follow-up bone scanning and assists in scan interpretation in patients status post definitive therapy for prostate cancer. 
Inflammatory edema induced by interactions between IL-1 and the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide. The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a potent vasodilator with a long duration of action. CGRP is widely distributed and is present in perivascular nerves of tissues that include skin and the synovium. In this study we have investigated the possibility that CGRP can modulate the inflammatory actions of the cytokine IL-1 by using an inflammatory model in rabbit skin. The intradermal injection of IL-1 (1.4 x 10(-14) mol/site) alone stimulated little edema formation. However, when IL-1 was injected with CGRP (10(-11) mol/site), a highly significant edema was observed, and neutrophil accumulation induced by IL-1 was potentiated. These results suggest that the action of IL-1 as a potent mediator of increased microvascular permeability is only observed when skin blood flow is increased in this model. This was confirmed by experiments in which PGE2 (3 x 10(-9) mol/site) at a dose with a similar duration of vasodilator action as CGRP (10(-11) mol/site) also potentiated edema induced by IL-1. Further experiments investigated the mechanism by which IL-1 increased microvascular permeability. Edema induced by IL-1 was dependent on de novo protein synthesis and the presence of circulating neutrophils. However, selective platelet-activating factor and histamine H1 antagonists had no inhibitory effect on this response. Thus it appears that when a microvascular bed is dilated by the long-lasting vasodilator CGRP, edema induced by IL-1 is clearly observed. These results highlight a potentially important synergistic interaction between cytokines and neuropeptides in inflammation. 
Propranolol compared with propranolol plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate for portal hypertension in cirrhosis. A randomized controlled study. OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether isosorbide-5-mononitrate (Is-5-Mn) given with propranolol reduces hepatic portal pressure more than does propranolol alone in patients with cirrhosis. DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial. PATIENTS: Fifty patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices entered and 42 completed the study. INTERVENTION: Twenty-one patients received oral propranolol at increasing doses until their resting heart rate was reduced by 25%, and 21 patients received oral propranolol (on the same schedule) plus oral Is-5-Mn, 40 mg twice a day. MEASUREMENTS: Hepatic vein pressure gradient, liver function, and splanchnic and systemic hemodynamics before and after 3 months of continuous therapy. MAIN RESULTS: At 3 months, the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased more (P less than 0.01) in patients given propranolol plus Is-5-Mn (19%, from 18.4 +/- 3.9 to 14.9 +/- 3.8 mm Hg; 95% CI, -2.4 to -4.5 mm Hg) than in those given propranolol alone (10%, from 18.2 +/- 3.5 to 16.3 +/- 3.1 mm Hg; CI, -1.1 to -2.7 mm Hg). The hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased by more than 20% of the baseline value in 10% of patients receiving propranolol, but in 50% of patients receiving combined therapy (P less than 0.02). There were statistically significant decreases in hepatic blood flow and the intrinsic clearance of indocyanine green after propranolol therapy, but not after combined therapy. The treatments caused similar reductions in azygos blood flow and cardiac output. CONCLUSIONS: The long-term combined administration of propranolol plus Is-5-Mn reduces portal pressure more than propranolol alone without adverse effects on hepatic perfusion and liver function. Whether this greater hemodynamic effect translates into better clinical efficacy should be determined in randomized controlled trials. 
Assessment of competency: the role of neurobehavioral deficits. We present a practical set of guidelines for assessing competency in patients with cognitive deficits due to neurologic disorders such as stroke, head injury, Alzheimer disease, and multi-infarct dementia. Our focus is the evaluation of cognitive processes underlying the ability to make competent decisions, with an emphasis on the identification of areas of preserved function that may be used to bypass intellectual deficits. The assessment of the cognitive processes underlying competency involves a series of steps designed to evaluate attention, language, memory, and frontal lobe function. The examiner must first show that the patient has an adequate level of attention for participation in the further testing of specific cognitive functions; second, that the patient is able to comprehend relevant instructions, retain information long enough to evaluate it in relation to relevant recent and remote experiences, and express his or her wishes; and finally, that the patient has sufficiently intact judgment and awareness. The examiner must determine whether the patient's preserved cognitive abilities are sufficient for him or her to make an adequate judgment in relation to the specific question being asked. If cognitive function is found to be significantly impaired, the examiner should do a detailed assessment for the presence of compensatory abilities that can be used to bypass the deficits. For example, the examiner should assess whether patients who cannot speak are still able to express their wishes by pointing, using gesture, or even by drawing pictures. Unless such an assessment has been done, patients should not be considered incompetent. 
Entire ABL gene is joined with 5'-BCR in some patients with Philadelphia-positive leukemia. In four patients, the chromosome 9 breakpoint of the t(9; 22)(q34;q11) had occurred at different sites within an 8.25-kilobase (kb) region situated 5' of ABL exon 1B. Chromosome in situ hybridization and field inversion gel electrophoresis (FIGE) studies showed that ABL exons 1A and 1B were present on the Ph chromosome. Yet this large fusion gene produced an mRNA conventional for chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Splicing from BCR exon 3 to ABL exon 2 crossed more than 200 kb and deleted exons 1A and 1B. This breakpoint site may occur in about 10% of all CML patients. Three of our patients have pronounced thrombocytosis, and two had been diagnosed as having Ph-positive essential thrombocythemia. The platelet count of the other patient was not available. 
Value and limitations of secondary femoropopliteal bypasses with polytetrafluoroethylene. Secondary femoropopliteal bypasses with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) grafts are widely regarded to be of questionable value. This has prompted some to abandon all attempts at secondary revascularization with PTFE and others to recommend that primary femoropopliteal bypasses be performed preferentially with PTFE grafts so that vein may be used for secondary procedures. Because we questioned both of these views, we reviewed all femoropopliteal bypasses done at our institution in the past 12 years and identified 73 secondary PTFE femoropopliteal procedures performed after a failed ipsilateral infrainguinal bypass (69 failed femoropopliteal; 4 failed femorodistal). Seventy (96%) secondary bypasses were performed for limb salvage and 3 (4%) for severe disabling claudication. Insertion of grafts to the popliteal artery was above the knee in 26 (36%) and below the knee in 47 (64%). Primary life-table graft patency at 4 years was only 38%. Forty-eight reinterventions in 34 limbs were required to restore or maintain graft patency in thrombosed or failing grafts. For thrombosed grafts, 20 interventions consisted of 9 simple thrombectomies and 11 thrombectomies with additional revision procedures (5 distal or proximal extensions, 6 patch angioplasties). Twenty-eight lesions threatening graft patency were treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in 3, proximal or distal extensions in 20, and patch angioplasty in 5. As a result of these reinterventions, the overall secondary patency rate was 55% at 4 years, and the limb salvage rate was 74% at 4 years. Although aggressive follow-up and reintervention may be required, the use of secondary PTFE conduits in the femoropopliteal position is a viable option in patients undergoing limb salvage procedures who are at high risk. 
Responsiveness to phenobarbital in an adult with Crigler-Najjar disease associated with neurological involvement and skin hyperextensibility. We present the case of a 23-yr-old man who had had since birth marked and sustained unconjugated non-hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia and who had had several attacks of grand mal seizures. Analysis of serum bilirubin by diazoreactive methods showed serum levels of unconjugated bilirubin as high as 445 mumol/L that were not affected by phenobarbital administration. However, analysis of serum bile pigments by high-pressure liquid chromatography demonstrated marked decrease of unconjugated bilirubin after phenobarbital treatment (from 432.4 mumol/L to 291.0 mumol/L) associated with slight increase of bilirubin monoconjugates and disconjugates (from 0.25 mumol/L to 0.42 mumol/L). Furthermore, in the past few years the patient had exhibited striking skin hyperextensibility and diaphragm eventration. This case confirms that alkaline methanolysis-high-pressure liquid chromatography is the most reliable method for assessment of serum fraction bilirubin levels; that clinical parameters such as neurological signs do not unequivocally discriminate between type I and II Crigler-Najjar disease and that response to phenobarbital treatment remains the main diagnostic tool. 
Myocardial infarction in childhood: clinical analysis of 17 cases and medium term follow up of survivors. Between 1979 and 1989 17 patients aged two months to 12 years with acute myocardial infarction of any cause (other than after cardiac surgery) were seen at a children's hospital. Eight died from three days to three years after diagnosis (overall mortality 47%). The nine survivors, now aged 2-17 years, have been followed for one to 10 years (mean follow up five years) after infarction. The commonest causes of myocardial infarction in this series were anomalous origin of left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (six patients (35%] and Kawasaki disease (five patients (27%]. The main symptoms of acute myocardial infarction were dyspnoea, vomiting, and difficulty feeding. Diagnosis was made in all patients by electrocardiography and confirmed by echocardiography, cardiac catheterisation, or at operation. All survivors were symptom free with excellent exercise capacity. The left ventricular ejection fraction in survivors ranged from 21% to 66%, and only one child was on regular cardiac medications. There were no cases of late sudden death. Twenty four hour Holter monitoring performed on survivors was normal (seven) or showed minor abnormalities only (one), suggesting that serious arrhythmia is rare after paediatric myocardial infarction. Myocardial infarction in children had a high early mortality; however, the incidence of serious arrhythmia was low in the survivors, who had a good exercise tolerance even when the left ventricular ejection fraction was low. 
Post stenotic aneurysm in popliteal artery entrapment syndrome. In a retrospective review of 74 cases of Popliteal Entrapment Syndrome collected over a 16 year period, 10 cases of aneurysm were found (13.5%). This represents an incidence of 26% of the 38 cases of popliteal aneurysm of any etiology seen during the same period of time. In contrast to atherosclerotic aneurysms, these aneurysms were seen in a young age group (21-30 years of age) and all were associated with popliteal entrapment. Evidence is presented to support our opinion that these aneurysms are post-stenotic in origin. We feel that young adults with symptoms of leg ischaemia and evidence of an aneurysm of the popliteal artery should be investigated for popliteal entrapment and treated before complications occur. We have found a posterior approach to be the most satisfactory method of exploring the popliteal fossa. 
Polyneuropathy induced by m-tolyl methyl carbamate intoxication. A 55-year-old woman who attempted suicide by ingesting 200 ml of m-tolyl methyl carbamate (MTMC) is reported. She was comatose for 3 days and, upon recovery, had notable paraesthesia in her lower limbs and difficulty in walking. Neurological examination revealed sensorimotor polyneuropathy. Sural nerve biopsy revealed marked axonal degeneration with a moderate decrease of myelinated fibres. 
Pseudoaneurysm of the popliteal artery as a complication of an osteochondroma. A review of the literature and a case report. False aneurysm of the femoral artery was associated with a solitary osteochondroma of the femur in a 22-year-old man. An extensive review of the literature and the problems related to diagnosis revealed that the aneurysm was apparently unique. Contrary to previous reports, computed tomography and angiography did not establish the diagnosis. The physical findings were more informative. 
Mammographic and CT findings after breast reconstruction with a rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flap. This essay illustrates the radiologic appearance of the reconstructed breast and the abdominal wall after breast reconstruction with a transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (TRAM) flap. The findings are based on a retrospective study of 42 mammograms, 17 abdominal CT scans, and two CT scans each of the chest and pelvis of patients who underwent this procedure. 
Surgical management of severe aortic outflow obstruction in lesions other than the hypoplastic left heart syndrome: use of a pulmonary artery to aorta anastomosis. Between December 1985 and April 1990, 50 infants with a variety of congenital cardiac lesions other than the hypoplastic left heart syndrome underwent surgical relief of aortic outflow obstruction by creation of a pulmonary artery to aorta anastomosis. The patients were grouped anatomically by ventriculoarterial alignment. Nineteen had normally aligned great arteries (group I); 25 had transposition of the great arteries, all with a univentricular heart of left ventricular morphology (group II); and 6 had a double-outlet right ventricle (group III). All patients had either aortic stenosis with atresia, subaortic stenosis or a restrictive ventricular septal defect. Sixteen had normal arch anatomy; 34 had arch anomalies consisting of arch hypoplasia (n = 17), coarctation (n = 11), interruption of the arch (n = 4) and complex arch anomalies (n = 2). Surgery was performed at a median age of 10 days (range 2 to 184). Of the 50 infants, 33 survived. No significant difference in early survival (30 days) was noted among the groups of varying ventriculoarterial alignment (68% group I, 72% group II, 83% group III) (p greater than 0.05). Overall actuarial survival was 63% at 18 months. Analysis of actuarial survival by arch anatomy, although not statistically significant, revealed a trend toward better survival at 18 months postoperatively in infants with normal arch anatomy (81%) than in infants with arch anomalies (54%). Of the 33 survivors, 26 have proceeded to the next surgical stage, including the Fontan procedure in 8, superior cavopulmonary anastomosis in 13 and biventricular repair in 5. 
Complete infarction of the eye complicating a choroidal malignant melanoma. Infarction of malignant melanoma of the choroid has been previously reported, but infarction of the whole eye in association with infarction of melanoma is a rare event that has not been previously described. We present such a case and discuss the possible pathogenesis. 
Sudden death in infants sleeping on polystyrene-filled cushions. BACKGROUND. Infants are at risk for both the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and accidental suffocation. On postmortem examination, however, it is difficult to distinguish one from the other without information from the scene of death. Healthy infants are assumed to be able to turn their heads and, if not otherwise restrained, to obtain fresh air. We assessed this assumption in an investigation of infant deaths that occurred during sleep on cushions filled with polystyrene beads. METHODS. We obtained data on 25 deaths from the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. We also used mechanical and animal models to study physiologic aspects of ventilation relevant to these results, by simulating the effects on an infant of breathing into a cushion. We measured the effects of softness, malleability (molding of the cushion about an infant's head), airflow resistance, and rebreathing of expired gases. RESULTS. All 25 study infants were prone when found dead, and at least 88 percent were face down with nose and mouth obstructed by the cushion. SIDS was the diagnosis in 19 of the 23 infants who underwent autopsy. Our findings show, however, that the cushion would have limited movement of the infant's head to obtain fresh air, and the amount of rebreathing we estimated to have occurred in the infants was lethal in a rabbit model. CONCLUSIONS. Accidental suffocation by rebreathing was the most likely cause of death in most of the 25 infants studied. Consequently, there is a need to reassess the cause of death in the 28 to 52 percent of the victims of SIDS who are found with their faces straight down. Safety regulations setting standards for softness, malleability, and the potential for rebreathing are needed for infant bedding. 
Complications of tissue plasminogen activator therapy after vitrectomy for diabetes. Human recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (25 micrograms) was injected into seven eyes of six patients who had developed massive fibrin deposition after vitrectomy surgery for diabetes. Six eyes had developed pupillary membranes and recurrence of tractional retinal detachment from fibrin membranes, and one eye had developed only a pupillary membrane. All pupillary membranes resolved within one hour of administration of tissue plasminogen activator, and five tractional retinal detachments resolved within 24 hours. All eyes developed evidence of intraocular bleeding after tissue plasminogen activator injection. Subsequently, six of seven eyes developed recurrence of fibrin accumulation and tractional retinal detachment. 
Diet and nutrition in ulcer disease. In this era of H2-inhibitors, the available evidence does not support the need to place peptic ulcer disease patients on restrictive diets. The major goal of diet is to avoid extreme elevations of gastric acid secretion and the direct irritation of gastric mucosa. In view of this, only slight modifications in the patient's usual diet are recommended. Table 1 depicts a sample menu for chronic peptic ulcer disease. Frequent milk ingestion as previously prescribed is not encouraged. This is owing to the transient buffering effect and significant gastric acid secretion effect of milk. The fat content of milk has no influence on these effects. Spices, in particular black pepper, red pepper, and chili powder, may produce dyspepsia. One study shows red chili powder to have no detrimental effect on duodenal ulcer healing. It has also been proposed that daily pepper ingestion may have a beneficial adaptive cytoprotective response. While still controversial and under evaluation, peptic ulcer patients should avoid any spice that causes discomfort, especially during exacerbation of peptic disease. Currently, studies indicate that it is prudent to avoid alcohol. This is especially true for the concentrated forms, such as 40% (80 proof) alcohol. Coffee should be avoided on the basis of its strong acid secretagogue property. Coffee can induce dyspepsia. Whether noncoffee caffeine-containing beverages (tea, soft drinks) induce peptic ulcer is unknown, but they are acid secretion stimulators. Decaffeinated coffee has an acid stimulating effect as well. It is reasonable to have peptic ulcer patients restrict decaffeinated coffee and all caffeine-containing beverages. There appears to be no evidence to restrict dietary fiber. Some fiber-containing foods may possess factors that are protective against ulcer disease. According to the Mayo Clinic Diet Manual, previously recommended small frequent feedings have not been shown to be more effective than three meals per day in the treatment of chronic peptic ulcer disease. This reference cites authorities advising against extra feedings because of increased acid secretion and unnecessary complication of eating patterns. However, some patients claim to be relieved of symptoms with more frequent feedings, especially during acute phases. Citric acid juices may induce reflux and cause discomfort in selective patients. Stomach distention with large quantities of food should be discouraged. Although there is now little role for dietary therapy, one should note that bland and ulcer diets probably are not detrimental to most persons if they are used for a short time and may have some psychological benefit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Risk factors for gastrointestinal ulcers caused by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) [published erratum appears in J Fam Pract 1991 Jul;33(1):16] Thirteen million individuals in the United States take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) chronically for the relief of pain and inflammation caused by arthritis and related conditions. NSAIDs are valuable and in many cases essential to the management of arthritis pain. Long-term use of NSAIDs, however, can cause gastrointestinal (GI) ulcers and potentially life-threatening ulcer complications. Factors such as older age (greater than or equal to 60 years), a history of peptic ulcer disease, concomitant corticosterid use, cigarette smoking, alcohol use, and high dose or multiple NSAID therapy can increase the risk of GI damage and complications in the chronic NSAID user. Physician awareness of these risk factors is crucial so that the benefits and hazards of NSAID therapy in high-risk patients can be properly weighed. When the decision is made to prescribe NSAIDs, despite the presence of risk factors for NSAID-induced ulcers, patients should be closely monitored, and, in some cases, effective prophylaxis should be initiated. This is especially important since NSAID-induced gastrointestinal ulcers can be asymptomatic, causing serious ulcer complications without warning. 
Nesidioblastosis: evidence for autosomal recessive inheritance. The risk of recurrence of nesidioblastosis is unclear. Thirty patients from 28 families were studied; the marriages were consanguineous in five families. The ratio of subsequent affected to unaffected siblings was similar to that of an autosomal recessive condition and the sex ratio was close to 1. 
Isolated serum-free perfused rat kidneys release immunoreactive erythropoietin in response to hypoxia. The renal glycoprotein hormone erythropoietin (Epo) interacts with erythrocytic progenitors to stimulate their proliferation and differentiation in the bone marrow. The renal O2-sensing mechanism in the control of the synthesis of Epo is still poorly understood. Therefore, the capacity of isolated rat kidneys to produce Epo during hypoxic and anemic perfusion was studied. The kidneys were perfused at a constant perfusion pressure of 100 mm Hg with a substrate-enriched Krebs-Henseleit solution containing 60 g/liter BSA and freshly drawn human erythrocytes. Epo was measured by RIA. When the kidneys were perfused at an arterial pO2 of 720 or 150 mm Hg (hematocrit, 5%), Epo production was very low (0.1-0.2 U/g kidney within 3 h of perfusion). When the arterial pO2 was lowered to 35 or 20 mm Hg, Epo production increased to 0.4 and 0.9 U/g kidney, respectively. The release of Epo during hypoxic perfusion (pO2 35 and 20 mm Hg) was little affected by changes in the hematocrit, i.e. the O2-carrying capacity of the perfusion medium over a wide range (0-40%). These results indicate that the production of Epo in the isolated perfused kidney depends on the availability of O2 and can be modulated by changes in the arterial pO2. 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy may be ineffective for secondary prevention of colorectal cancer in asymptomatic, average-risk men. Asymptomatic men (N = 114) 50 years of age or older had screening for colorectal neoplasia with flexible sigmoidoscopy followed by colonoscopy regardless of the sigmoidoscopic result. Our study objective was to determine the prevalence of patients having isolated adenomatous polyps in a proximal colonic segment in the absence of a distal index neoplasm within reach of the sigmoidoscope. Through the combined use of sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy, adenomatous polyps were detected in 47 of 114 individuals (41%). A total of 88 adenomas was found. Seventeen patients had isolated neoplasms in proximal colonic segments in the absence of distal adenomas. These patients represented 15% of screened subjects (17 of 114) and 20% of individuals who lacked adenomas on sigmoidoscopy (17 of 84). The majority of proximal neoplasms were small (less than 1.0 cm), tubular adenomas. Flexible sigmoidoscopy may be ineffective for screening asymptomatic men for neoplasia. However, it remains to be determined if a 20% miss rate (for those with a normal sigmoidoscopic examination) is significant and whether small proximal adenomas are worth finding. 
Temporal thresholds for neocortical infarction in rats subjected to reversible focal cerebral ischemia. We investigated the temporal threshold for focal cerebral infarction in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. The right middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery were occluded for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 24 hours, and all the animals were sacrificed 24 hours after the onset of ischemia. Cortical infarct volumes and edema volumes were quantified in serial frozen sections of hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue using image analysis. Upon occlusion, blood flow in the core of the ischemic zone, measured with laser-Doppler flowmetry, fell to a mean +/- standard deviation of 21 +/- 7% of the preocclusion baseline value (n = 26). During the first hour of ischemia, blood flow in the densely ischemic zone rose to 27 +/- 8% of baseline (n = 25). Release of the middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery occlusions rapidly restored cortical blood flow to 213 +/- 83% of baseline (n = 21). Focal ischemia of 1 hour's duration caused little or no infarction, while ischemic intervals of 2 and 3 hours produced successively larger volumes of infarcted cortex. Ischemic intervals of 3-4 hours' duration followed by approximately 20 hours of recirculation yielded infarct volumes that were not significantly different from those after 24 hours of permanent focal ischemia. The results indicate that 3-4 hours of focal cerebral ischemia in this rat model is sufficient to attain maximal infarction and suggest that recirculation or pharmacological interventions after this time will provide little benefit. 
Air esophagogram and intestinal pseudoocclusion in a patient with scleroderma. Air in the esophagus is unusual because it is collapsible. Its finding on a chest roentgenogram, particularly when not associated with a fluid level indicative of stricture, should strongly suggest systemic sclerosis (scleroderma). We describe a patient with scleroderma with intestinal pseudoocclusion and an air esophagogram. Study of chest roentgenograms of 83 patients with scleroderma, including those of 7 with pseudoocclusion, revealed no other instance of air esophagogram. This radiological sign, although rare, should suggest scleroderma and may be particularly useful in patients with "systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma.". 
Local anesthesia blocks the antiemetic action of P6 acupuncture. The incidence of postoperative illness was monitored for 6 hours in 74 women premedicated with nalbuphine, 10 mg, and undergoing short gynecologic operations of similar duration under methohexitalnitrous oxide-oxygen anesthesia. Each patient received P6 acupuncture for 5 minutes at the time of administration of premedication. In random order the site of the acupuncture had been previously infiltrated with normal saline solution in half of the patients and 1% lidocaine in the remaining patients. Postoperative emetic sequelae occurred significantly more often in those who received lidocaine compared with the group that received saline solution. This demonstrates the ability of a local anesthetic administered at the point of stimulation to block the antiemetic action of P6 acupuncture in a manner similar to that shown by others for analgesia. 
Immunolocalization of the Bcl-2 protein within hematopoietic neoplasms. The Bcl-2 proto-oncogene was discovered at the t(14;18) breakpoint found in most follicular B-cell lymphomas and some diffuse large-cell lymphomas. Bcl-2 is unique among proto-oncogenes, being localized to mitochondria and extending cell survival by blocking programmed cell death. We examined Bcl-2 protein expression in 82 hematologic malignancies and reactive lymphoid processes. All lymphomas with Bcl-2 rearrangement demonstrated high levels of Bcl-2 protein. However, most follicular and diffuse lymphomas without Bcl-2 rearrangement also displayed intense Bcl-2 staining. In these cases, mechanisms other than classic translocation may be deregulation Bcl-2. The pattern of Bcl-2 staining in follicular lymphoma is the inverse of the pattern in reactive hyperplasia, confirming a role for Bcl-2 immunolocalization in routine diagnosis. Small lymphocytic malignancies, including small lymphocytic lymphoma, mantle zone lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, expressed intermediate levels of Bcl-2. Bcl-2 protein varied in plasma cell dyscrasias. Bcl-2 protein levels in T-cell lymphomas reflected their corresponding stage of development. No substantial Bcl-2 was present in the Reed-Sternberg cells of nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease. Chronic myelogenous leukemia was strongly positive for Bcl-2, consistent with the presence of Bcl-2 in normal myeloid progenitors. Immunohistochemistry identified an expanded spectrum of hematopoietic neoplasms in which Bcl-2 may provide a cell survival advantage. 
Intestinal lymphonodular hyperplasia of childhood: patterns of presentation. In this retrospective analysis we searched for a constellation of signs or symptoms attributable to childhood lymphonodular hyperplasia (LNH). Of 147 children with documented LNH reviewed, 43% had lesions in the small bowel, and 57% in the large bowel. Children in this study presented with complaints of abdominal pain (58%) and bright red blood per rectum (32%). Physical examination revealed little except right lower quadrant (RLQ) abdominal tenderness and "fullness" in 35%. The pain was periumbilical, dull-cramping, rarely acute, and nonradiating. The hematochezia was most commonly streaky red in mucoid strands adhering to the stools, with no associated tenesmus. Three clinical patterns emerged: (a) Under 1 year of age most patients were male, with painless bleeding and pancolonic LNH. (b) Between 2 and 6 years, although the LNH was predominantly colonic, pain and bleeding occurred equally. (c) From 7 years old on, the main symptom was abdominal pain, but LNH distribution was nearly equal between the small bowel and the colon. To date, our long-term follow-up of the children with isolated LNH has revealed no sequelae. 
Gastric carcinoids and their precursor lesions. A histologic and immunohistochemical study of 23 cases. A histologic and immunohistochemical study was carried out in 23 unselected nonantral gastric carcinoids and their precursor lesions classified according to Solcia et al. None of the patients showed Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Two variants of carcinoids showing distinctive pathologic and pathogenetic characteristics were identified on the basis of presence or absence of associated chronic atrophic gastritis type A (A-CAG). Chronic atrophic gastritis type A was found in 19 cases showing either single or multiple neoplasms, tumor extension limited to the mucosa or submucosa, consistent endocrine cell precursor changes in extratumoral mucosa, and consistent hypergastrinemia and/or G cell hyperplasia. Associated precursor lesions were only hyperplastic in all but two cases with single carcinoids whereas they were also dysplastic in all but one case with multiple carcinoids. The four tumors arising in nonatrophic mucosa were all single, more aggressive, and not associated with extratumoral endocrine cell proliferations or with signs of gastrin hypersecretion. Tumor cells were diffusely immunoreactive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin but usually negative for chromogranin B or HISL-19. Scattered serotonin cells were found in ten carcinoids. They were more frequent in infiltrating than in intramucosal tumors as were the less represented pancreatic polypeptide cells whereas the reverse was found for alpha-subunit-containing cells. These results are of relevance for tumor pathogenesis and may provide the rationale for a less aggressive therapeutic approach in the patients. 
Facial dystonia, essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm. Movement disorders, or dyskinesias, in the facial region may be categorized in several ways. Dystonic movement disorders in the cranial-cervical region, including essential blepharospasm, Meige syndrome and spasmodic torticollis, are characterized by uncontrollable squeezing movements in the face and neck. These disorders typically present in the fifth and sixth decades of life. Essential blepharospasm is particularly debilitating, as the involuntary eyelid closure that accompanies this condition may result in functional blindness with an otherwise normal visual pathway. Hemifacial spasm is an intermittent, unilateral, spasmodic contraction of the muscles innervated by the facial nerve. This disorder usually presents in the third or fourth decade and has a different underlying pathophysiology than the dystonias. Botulinum A toxin therapy has largely supplanted surgical intervention in the treatment of essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm. 
S-adenosyl-L-methionine in the treatment of patients with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with negative results. S-Adenosyl-L-methionine has been reported to induce beneficial effects in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. Because cholestasis of pregnancy has a high prevalence in Chile and a deleterious effect on fetal prognosis, we decided to verify the efficacy of S-adenosyl-L-methionine in this disease. Eighteen patients with pruritus that appeared during pregnancy and with elevated serum levels of bile salts (68.1 +/- 15.9 mumol/L; mean +/- S.E.M.) and ALT (226 +/- 50 KU/L) were enrolled in a prospective double-blind study comparing the effects of the drug with a placebo. S-Adenosyl-L-methionine, 900 mg, or placebo was administered in daily intravenous infusions for 20 days. Every 5 days liver function tests were done and pruritus was assessed using a preestablished score. No significant differences in pruritus or in serum levels of bile salts, ALT, bilirubin and alkaline phosphatases were seen during or after treatment between patients who received S-adenosyl-L-methionine (n = 9) or placebo (n = 9). No relevant adverse reactions were detected. Most patients had cesarean sections because of reasons unrelated to the therapeutic trial. All newborns had Apgar scores greater than 7 and normal postnatal development. Our patients had moderately severe to severe cholestasis of pregnancy as indicated by the onset of pruritus before wk 32 of pregnancy. Seven of nine multiparous patients had a past history of recurrent cholestasis of pregnancy. In this study, the administration of S-adenosyl-L-methionine during 20 days did not improve intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. 
Fabry disease: detection of 13-bp deletion in alpha-galactosidase A gene and its application to gene diagnosis of heterozygotes. Polymerase chain reaction amplification of reverse-transcribed messenger RNA from a patient with Fabry disease revealed a 13-base pair deletion in the 5' region (exon 1) of alpha-galactosidase A complementary DNA. This gene rearrangement was not detected by Southern or Northern analysis. Short direct repeats were present around the breakpoints, and considered to be of pathogenetic significance. Gene diagnosis of the mother and a female cousin was successfully achieved by polymerase chain reaction amplification of genomic DNA; the former as a Fabry disease heterozygote and the latter as a normal homozygote. 
Breast conservation therapy. Severe breast fibrosis after radiation therapy in patients with collagen vascular disease. Two patients with collagen vascular disease (rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma) had extremely poor cosmetic results after breast radiation therapy (RT). The patient with rheumatoid arthritis received 5251 cGy at 210 cGy per day, followed by a 1600 cGy iridium-192 implant boost. Between 8 and 11 months post-RT she had severe breast fibrosis, retraction, and pain that required a mastectomy for relief. The patient with scleroderma received 5040 cGy at 180 cGy per day without a boost. Between 1 and 4 months post-RT the systemic symptoms of scleroderma progressed and the breast became hard and retracted. Both rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma are chronic systemic diseases characterized by severe inflammation and an autoimmune component. The presence of scleroderma at or before treatment should be considered a contraindication to breast RT, whereas the presence of active rheumatoid arthritis should be considered a relative contraindication. An autoimmune mechanism will be presented to explain both the fibrosis and the systemic progression of collagen vascular disease that was observed. 
Urinary pepsinogen I as a tumor marker of stomach cancer after total gastrectomy. The possibility that urinary pepsinogen I is a tumor marker of stomach cancer after total gastrectomy was examined. To decide the cutoff level of urinary pepsinogen I after total gastrectomy, urine samples from 15 patients who had undergone total gastrectomy for stomach cancer in the early or advanced stages and had been free from recurrence for more than 5 years were examined by pepsinogen I-specific radioimmunoassay. The mean concentration of urinary pepsinogen I was 17.5 +/- 7.4 ng/ml and the cutoff level of urinary pepsinogen after total gastrectomy was set at 32 ng/ml (mean + 2 SD). Twenty-two of 74 cases who had undergone total gastrectomy for stomach cancer were regarded as positive. And 20 of these 22 positive cases had definite clinical signs of recurrence of stomach cancer. There were only two false-positive cases. These results suggest that urinary pepsinogen I will be an useful tumor marker in detecting the recurrence of stomach cancer after total gastrectomy. 
Acute postinfarction septal rupture: long-term results. From 1973 to 1989, 66 patients received early surgical repair for acute postinfarction ventricular septal rupture. Mean age was 64 +/- 7 years (range, 45 to 80 years). Ventricular septal rupture occurred soon after acute myocardial infarction (3.4 +/- 4 days), and the first medical treatment occurred 6.7 +/- 7 days after onset of acute myocardial infarction. Three patients had a previous myocardial infarction. The site of the rupture was anterior in 38 patients (57%) and posterior in 28 (43%). Forty-four patients (67%) were in shock at the time of admission. Intraaortic balloon pumping was used preoperatively in 28. Operation was performed at the time of maximal efficacy of medical treatment. The same technique was used in all cases. Associated procedures included coronary bypass grafting in 5 patients and valvar operation in 5. The patients have been carefully followed up for up to 16 years. Hospital mortality was 45% (30 patients) and was cardiac related or due to acute renal failure in 25 patients (83%). No correlation could be revealed between early death and age, sex, preoperative intraaortic balloon pumping, or year of operation. Location of the ventricular septal rupture (early mortality of 57% for posterior versus 37% for anterior ventricular septal rupture) and shock at the time of admission (52% versus 32%) showed a trend toward significance (0.08 less than or equal to p less than 0.10). Response to initial active therapy has a strong predictive value (mortality of 70% in unresponsive patients versus 14% in responders; p less than 0.001). 
Endothelial modulation of vascular tone: relevance to coronary angioplasty and restenosis. The vascular endothelium importantly modulates many biochemical and physiologic properties of the vascular wall, including the release of potent vasoactive factors, maintenance of an anticoagulant state and modulation of vascular growth by the release of both proliferative and antiproliferative substances. Prominent among these endothelial roles is the production of a potent vasodilator or family of vasodilators termed the endothelium-derived relaxing factor, one of which has been identified to be nitric oxide or a closely related compound. Several diseases that commonly occur in patients undergoing coronary angioplasty alter many facets of endothelial function and may predispose to adverse clinical sequelae of angioplasty, including immediate thrombosis, restenosis and vascular spasm. Several features of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor, how it is altered by pathologic processes and how these considerations relate to the immediate and late postangioplasty periods are discussed. 
Iontophoresis versus subcutaneous injection: a comparison of two methods of local anesthesia delivery in children. The relative efficacy of local lidocaine anesthesia administered by subcutaneous injection and by iontophoresis was studied in 13 pediatric renal dialysis patients (ages 11-19 years: mean age 15.8 years). Each patient served as his own control at 3 assessment periods. Each type of anesthetic delivery method was administered to either of 2 fistula sites. Patients used visual analogue scales to rate pain, anxiety, and satisfaction for each method. Behavioral observations were made by an observer and a nurse. Paired sample t tests were used to compare the 2 drug delivery methods for patient, observer, and nurse ratings across assessment periods. There were no significant differences between methods for ratings of anxiety before or during the procedure. The injection of lidocaine was rated as more painful by the observer and nurse (with a trend for patients) than the use of iontophoresis. But, the patients and nurse rated the injection method as more effective. Iontophoresis was never rated as superior to the injection method, even after turning over control of drug delivery by iontophoresis to the patient (sessions 2 and 3). Patients were more satisfied with iontophoresis at session 2 when they took over control, but lost enthusiasm by session 3. Three subjects withdrew from the study due to cutaneous burns and prolonged anesthesia delivery time with iontophoresis. Iontophoresis appears to be effective in reducing the pain of dialysis needle insertion but requires further investigation before it can be considered a viable alternative to subcutaneous injection. 
Thrombocytosis in adults: analysis of 777 patients. A total of 777 patients with thrombocytosis, defined as a platelet count of greater than 500 x 10(9)l-1, seen in a University hospital over a 1-year period, were studied prospectively for aetiology. The most frequent causes of thrombocytosis were infection (21.9%), rebound thrombocytosis (19.4%), tissue damage (17.9%), chronic inflammatory disorders (13.1%) and malignancy (5.9%). Thrombocytosis associated with multiple causative factors, occurring simultaneously, was seen in 6.1% of cases. Thrombocytosis of greater than or equal to 1 million x 10(9)l-1 was found most frequently in patients with multiple aetiological factors occurring at the same time, in myeloproliferative disorders, or in postsplenectomy patients. 
Late recovery of function after oculomotor nerve palsy. We studied three patients who developed oculomotor nerve paresis from different causes. Each patient improved somewhat over several months, after which there was no further improvement for at least six months. Although the pareses were thought to be stable after the period of no improvement, each patient subsequently had further improvement in both motility and alignment with resolution of diplopia in primary position and in more than one of the cardinal positions of gaze. Patients with oculomotor nerve paresis may improve further after an initial period of improvement followed by several months of stability. 
Maintenance therapy in peptic ulcer disease. The maxim "once an ulcer, always an ulcer" is still an appropriate description for the chronic nature of peptic ulcer disease. The goals for treating patients with ulcer disease are to relieve symptoms, heal the acute ulcer, reduce the risk of ulcer recurrence and complications, and decrease the economic impact of this chronic disease while maintaining the patient's quality of life. Patients with documented peptic ulcer disease should be carefully evaluated and a treatment plan devised that takes into account the possible need for maintenance therapy. Risk factors that seem to reflect a high likelihood of ulcer recurrence should be identified early in all ulcer patients and attempts made to minimize or correct them in the future. Assuming that a diagnosis of peptic ulcer disease has been firmly established and an adequate period of drug treatment makes complete ulcer healing likely, a reasonable way to proceed is outlined in Figure 4. If the patient is young and generally healthy, has an uncomplicated ulcer and few risk factors favoring ulcer relapse, either no treatment or symptomatic selfcare would be reasonable. If one chooses the latter course, the patient can be given a prescription for 3 to 6 months of medication and told to take full therapy for any recurrent symptoms, continuing the treatment until symptoms are relieved. The failure of such treatment to relieve symptoms after 2 to 3 weeks, the onset of alarming symptoms such as intense pain, vomiting, or melena, or possibly the exhaustion of the 6-month supply of medication with continued mild symptoms should lead to reevaluation. Alternatively, such a patient could be managed with no therapy and seen again if ulcer symptoms recur and reevaluated for further diagnosis and treatment. Obviously, patients who are candidates for these approaches to postulcer healing management are those with a low risk for ulcer recurrence and who are likely to be compliant with follow-up advice. Accordingly, careful patient selection seems most important in prescribing symptomatic self-care or intermittent full-dose maintenance treatment. On the other hand, if the patient has had a complicated course of ulcer disease, such as bleeding, or has a significant number of risk factors that would make early ulcer relapse highly likely, it would be prudent to institute continuous maintenance therapy while working to reduce or eliminate the adverse risk factors. Any relapse of symptomatic ulcer disease during noncontinuous maintenance therapy should indicate the need for return to a continuous dosing program.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Immunodepletion of extrinsic pathway inhibitor sensitizes rabbits to endotoxin-induced intravascular coagulation and the generalized Shwartzman reaction. We have reported earlier that immunodepletion of extrinsic pathway inhibitor (EPI) sensitizes rabbits to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) induced by infusing a low concentration of tissue factor (TF). We now describe the effect of immunodepletion of EPI in rabbits administered endotoxin. Cortisone-treated rabbits were administered anti-rabbit EPI immunoglobulin (IgG) or Fab fragments or were administered control nonimmune material before an injection of endotoxin. In four of seven rabbits administered anti-EPI, plasma EPI activity levels were reduced by 70% to 80% of initial levels for 6 to 8 hours. In these rabbits the endotoxin induced extensive DIC, as evidenced by substantial decreases in fibrinogen, factor V, factor VIII, and platelets, and gross hemorrhagic necrosis of the kidneys due to massive deposition of fibrin in the glomerular microcirculation (the generalized Shwartzman reaction). In three rabbits administered anti-EPI, plasma EPI levels were only transiently reduced. In these rabbits and in four rabbits administered nonimmune IgG or Fab, endotoxin induced minimal to moderate intravascular clotting and deposits of fibrin were not found in the glomerular capillaries. Because it is believed that TF expressed on monocytes triggers endotoxin-induced coagulation, these data are taken as evidence that EPI functions as a natural anticoagulant that can regulate factor VIIa/TF activity expressed on cell surfaces in vivo. They support a hypothesis that EPI prevents thrombotic complications that might otherwise result from exposure of blood to cytokine-induced generation of small amounts of TF on cell surfaces in many inflammatory and infectious disease states. 
Testicular plasmacytoma. A case report with immunohistochemical studies and literature review. Plasmacytomas of the testes are extremely rare tumors, especially when occurring in the absence of a previous or concurrent diagnosis of multiple myeloma. We present a case of solitary testicular plasmacytoma in a 71-year-old man who had no clinical evidence of myeloma. Immunohistochemical stains showed monoclonal cytoplasmic production of IgA-kappa within tumor cells. A summary of the other reported cases of testicular plasmacytoma is presented. Plasmacytoma of the testes, while occasionally manifesting as a solitary, primary lesion, most likely is a precocious, highly unusual manifestation of systemic multiple myeloma. 
The effect of prostacyclin on intracranial pressure in patients with acute hepatic and renal failure. Prostacyclin was administered on 20 occasions to 12 patients with fulminant hepatic failure complicated by acute renal failure prior to commencing dialysis at a dose of 5 ng/kg.min. Intracranial pressure was noted to increase during the infusion from a median of 12 mmHg (95% confidence limits 9-14) to 17 mmHg (12-25), p less than 0.01, at the same time the mean arterial blood pressure declined from 79 mmHg (65-82) to 64 (56-70), p less than 0.01, and the cerebral perfusion pressure from 62 mmHg (53-67) to 44 mmHg (41-55), p less than 0.01. The changes were greater for those patients who subsequently died from cerebral edema. Patients with fulminant hepatic and acute renal failure are at risk of dying from cerebral edema. The direct administration of prostacyclin, used for extracorporeal anticoagulation, may cause a further increase in intracranial pressure and reduce cerebral perfusion, thus resulting in patient morbidity and mortality. 
Combined thoracic aortic dissection and abdominal aortic fusiform aneurysm. Certain clinical and autopsy findings are described in 13 patients who had both aortic dissection (AD) and fusiform abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). All 13 patients had severe and extensive aortic atherosclerosis. The AAA was diagnosed clinically in 9 patients, and 5 had the AAA resected. The AD was diagnosed clinically in 5 patients, and 2 underwent attempted operative repair. Two patients who had the AAA resected because of suspected rupture were found later to have ruptured a more proximal AD. Thus, AD occurs occasionally in patients who have AAA. In older persons with suspected rupture of an AAA, a more proximal rupture of an AD should be ruled out. When both AAA and AD are present in the same patient, the AD is more likely the cause of cardiovascular collapse than is rupture of the AAA. 
Enterocutaneous fistulas following laparotomy for trauma. Enterocutaneous fistulas (ECF) are recognized complications of various bowel diseases. Trauma is reported as a rare cause of ECF. ECF following laparotomy for abdominal injury was studied in 15 patients to determine whether traditional principles of management for ECF are applicable in posttraumatic ECF. Thirty-three per cent of patients with posttraumatic ECF spontaneously healed fistulas with appropriate nutritional support without operative intervention. Sixty-six per cent of patients required operative intervention, either because of associated sepsis or failure to spontaneously heal. Five patients had fistulas originate from areas of bowel not injured in the initial injury. This study suggests traditional principles of management for ECF are applicable in ECF following laparotomy for abdominal injury and result in a spontaneous closure of fistulas in one-third of patients. In addition, sepsis is the main indication for early aggressive operative treatment of these fistulas. 
Stroke prevention in women: role of aspirin versus ticlopidine. Stroke is the third leading cause of death in North America. Most studies indicate that women are just as likely as men to have an initial stroke but less likely to have a recurrent stroke. Aspirin and ticlopidine are two antiplatelet drugs that reduce the risk of recurrent stroke by 25% to 30%. In some stroke prevention trials, aspirin has been shown to be more effective for men than for women. In contrast, major stroke prevention trials using ticlopidine have demonstrated equal benefit in women and in men. The overall incidence of adverse effects seen with ticlopidine is not significantly different from that observed with aspirin. There are now two effective agents useful in stroke prevention in both men and women. 
Neutrophil accumulation in ischemic canine myocardium. Insights into time course, distribution, and mechanism of localization during early reperfusion. BACKGROUND. We have previously demonstrated that chemotactic factors released from the ischemic canine myocardium peak early during reperfusion and that they elicit neutrophil adherence reactions in vitro that are dependent on the CD18 glycoprotein family. In this study we investigated the hypothesis that neutrophil localization in ischemic canine myocardium in vivo occurs over a similar time course during early reperfusion and involves a CD18-dependent mechanism. METHODS AND RESULTS. We occluded the circumflex coronary artery for 1 hour in acute, open-chest dogs, followed by reperfusion for 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours. Regional myocardial blood flow was determined using radiolabeled microspheres, and localization was traced using technetium-99m-labeled autologous neutrophils. In the first hour of reperfusion, neutrophil localization occurred preferentially within the subendocardial region and was inversely related to flow. Neutrophil localization diminished across the ischemic myocardium from endocardium to epicardium but remained negatively related to flow in the midmyocardial region. Regardless of flow, little neutrophil localization occurred in the subepicardial region. Neutrophil localization was greatest in the first hour of reperfusion and diminished thereafter. By 4 hours of reperfusion, the rate of localization was markedly attenuated relative to 1 hour. Dogs given anti-CD18 monoclonal antibody R15.7 (1 mg/kg i.v.) before occlusion underwent 1 hour of occlusion followed by 1 hour of reperfusion. When compared with 1-hour reperfusion controls, the R15.7-treated dogs demonstrated significant attenuation of neutrophil localization in the subendocardial region. CONCLUSIONS. These data support the concepts that rapid neutrophil localization during reperfusion occurs within regions of previous myocardial ischemia and that neutrophils preferentially localize within the subendocardial region. The rate of neutrophil localization is greatest within the first hour after the initiation of reperfusion, and localization is, at least in part, CD18 dependent. Therapies directed against neutrophil-mediated reperfusion injury should be initiated with these considerations in mind. 
Establishment and characterization of 20 human non-small cell lung cancer cell lines in a serum-free defined medium (ACL-4). To facilitate the studies in cell biology and drug sensitivity of non-small cell lung cancer, cell samples from 55 patients have been used to establish cell lines in culture using a chemically defined medium (ACL-4). A total of 20 cell lines (36 percent) were directly established and characterized: 14 (44 percent) from pleural effusions, five (29 percent) from resected primary tumors, and one (25 percent) from ascitic fluids. They comprised 16 adenocarcinoma, two large cell carcinoma, one squamous cell carcinoma, and one malignant mesothelioma. Each cell line had distinct gross morphologic features and population doubling times from 21 to 75 h. The plating efficiency was 0.01 to 9.51 percent. The modal chromosome number varied from 45 to 108. Secretion of tumor markers (carcinoembryonic antigen, sialyl Lewis Xi, CA 50, CA 125, and CA 19-9) into the medium was also different in each cell line. Most of the cell lines have been xenografted into nude mice and found to be tumorigenic. Survival of 20 patients whose tumor cell specimens continually grew in culture at any time during their clinical course was significantly shorter than that of 35 patients with no in vitro tumour growth (median survival time of 28 weeks vs 53 weeks, p = 0.0093). Our study indicates that in vitro tumor cell growth appears to be an adverse prognostic factor in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. 
Treatment of refractory peptic ulcer with omeprazole or continued H2 receptor antagonists: a controlled clinical trial. We tested the hypothesis that the gastric H+/K+ adenosine triphosphatase inhibitor, omeprazole, because of its different mode of action and pronounced inhibitory effect on gastric acid secretion, may be more effective in peptic ulcer that is refractory to histamine H2 receptor antagonist treatment than continuing the same therapy. Altogether 107 patients (duodenal ulcer, n = 88; prepyloric ulcer, n = 14; gastric ulcer, n = 3; mixed sites, n = 2) with refractory peptic ulcer - that is ulcer unhealed after at least two months' treatment with cimetidine 0.8 g or 1 g daily or with ranitidine 0.3 g daily - were randomly allocated to receive either omeprazole 40 mg daily (n = 54) or to continue treatment with the same H2 receptor antagonist and at the same dose (n = 53) for up to eight weeks. The patients in the two treatment groups were well matched demographically. Healing by 'intent to treat' analysis was as follows: at four weeks, omeprazole 46 of 54 (85%), H2 receptor antagonist 18 of 53 (34%) (p less than 0.0001); and at eight weeks, 52 of 54 (96%) and 30 of 53 (57%) respectively (p less than 0.0001). One patient was lost to follow up but of the 22 patients whose ulcers were shown to be unhealed at endoscopy after receiving continued H2 receptor antagonist treatment, 21 healed in four to eight weeks when changed to omeprazole. 
Ras oncogene mutations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasms. Current models for tumorigenesis propose that a series of genetic alterations occur during the progression from the normal cell to the malignant phenotype. Mutations in each of the three ras genes (K-ras, H-ras, and N-ras) have been identified in many human neoplasms, including thyroid cancer. In this study we examined genomic DNA from benign and malignant thyroid neoplasms for mutations that are known to activate the ras oncogenes (codons 12, 13, and 61). DNA from frozen surgically excised tissue (n = 8) and from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue (n = 30) was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and screened for mutations using oligonucleotide-specific hybridization. No mutations were identified in follicular adenomas (n = 9). In follicular carcinomas, 2 of 14 tumors contained mutations (N-ras 61, Gln to Arg), and both of these patients had bone metastases. One of 15 papillary carcinomas had a ras mutation (H-ras 12, Gly to Ser). In contrast to other studies, we found that ras mutations are relatively uncommon in both benign and malignant thyroid neoplasms. Studies of larger numbers of tumors and comparisons of different patient populations will be required to assess a possible association of mutations in N-ras 61 with clinically aggressive follicular cancer. 
Pulsed-field electrophoresis screening for immunoglobulin heavy-chain constant-region (IGHC) multigene deletions and duplications. Genome regions containing multiple copies of homologous genes, such as the immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy-chain constant-region (IGHC) locus, are often unstable and give rise to duplicated and deleted haplotypes. Analysis of such processes is fundamental to understanding the mechanisms of evolution of multigene families. In the IGHC region, a number of single and multiple gene deletions, derived from either unequal crossing-over or looping-out excision, have been described. To study these haplotypes at the population level, a simple and efficient method for preparing large numbers of DNA samples suitable for pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) analysis was set up, and a sample of 110 blood donors was screened. Deletions were found to be frequent, as expected on the basis of previous serological surveys for homozygotes. Furthermore, a number of multigene duplications, never identified before, were detected. The total frequency of individuals bearing rearranged IGHC haplotypes was 10%. The genes involved in these deletions and duplications were assessed by densitometric analysis of standard Southern blots hybridized with several IGHC probes; two types of deletion and two types of duplication could thus be characterized. These data provide further evidence of the instability of the IGHC locus and demonstrate that unequal crossing-over is the most likely origin of rearranged IGHC haplotypes; they also suggest that such recombination events may be relatively frequent. Moreover, the simplicity and effectiveness of the large-scale PFGE screening approach will be of great help in the study of multigene families and of other loci involved in aberrant recombinations. 
Vasculitic skin ulcers associated with myelofibrosis--a case report. This is the case report of a seventy-seven-year-old woman with ulcerated skin vasculitis of the lower extremities that preceded the appearance of myelofibrosis. No previous report of this association has been found in a survey of the literature. 
White sponge naevus and ocular coloboma. White sponge naevus occurred in association with coloboma of the iris in six members of one family, across three generations. The association of these two dominantly inherited conditions has not to our knowledge previously been described. 
Posterior urethral valves presenting as venous obstruction. A patient with posterior urethral valves presented with unilateral lower leg ecchymosis and edema. He initially had significant renal function impairment. The ecchymosis and edema resolved after appropriate therapy, and his renal function returned to normal. 
Nicotine potentiation of haloperidol in reducing tic frequency in Tourette's disorder [published erratum appears in Am J Psychiatry 1991 Sep;148(9):1282] In an open, nonblind study, 10 patients with Tourette's disorder who were being treated with haloperidol were videotaped before, while, and after chewing nicotine gum. The frequency of tics was reduced significantly during the 30-minute gum-chewing period and during the 1 hour after gum chewing. Nicotine appears to potentiate haloperidol effects in patients with Tourette's disorder. 
Prophylaxis of stress ulcer bleeding. A meta-analysis. Recent studies have reported upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding in 5-25% of intensive care unit (ICU) patients with severe stress despite the use of antacids and/or H2-antagonists. To evaluate the efficacy of this regimen, a meta-analysis of all prospective studies on the prevention of stress bleeding, available from the international literature, was conducted. Only macroscopically visible bleeds were considered. Because alkalinization of the gastric juice has been incriminated in facilitating gastric and pulmonary colonization, agents with little or no influence on the gastric pH have been increasingly investigated in stress bleeding prophylaxis. The meta-analysis was therefore extended to determine the efficacy of two newer substances, pirenzepine and sucralfate, in preventing macroscopically visible stress bleeding, as well as their influence on pulmonary infections and mortality. Antacids and H2-antagonists proved to be significantly superior to untreated controls, with the tendency in favor of antacids administered in short intervals as compared to H2-antagonists. Pirenzepine and sucralfate were significantly superior to H2-antagonists, and sucralfate was as effective as an adequate antacid regimen. Patient groups treated with antacids or H2-antagonists showed a significantly higher risk for the development of nosocomial pneumonia. The most significant differences was found in long-term ventilated patients compared with patients treated with sucralfate. In the same patient group, antacids and H2-antagonists also showed a significantly higher mortality rate than sucralfate. 
The significance of portal vein thrombosis after distal splenorenal shunt. The aims of this study were to determine the incidence of portal vein thrombosis after the distal splenorenal shunt, to identify any predictive factors, and to assess the clinical significance of this complication. Preoperative and postoperative angiograms and clinical evaluation were reviewed in 124 patients who underwent distal splenorenal shunts. Total and partial portal vein thrombosis were seen on 13 (10.5%) and 22 (17.7%) postoperative angiograms, respectively. The only preoperative variable correlating with development of portal vein thrombosis was portal venous perfusion, which was significantly lower in patients with than in those without portal vein thrombosis. In six of 10 patients with postoperative pancreatitis, portal vein thrombosis developed. The frequency of early postoperative complications was significantly greater in patients with total portal vein thrombosis than in those with partial or no thrombosis. Long-term follow-up has shown no significant effects of portal vein thrombosis on late ascites, encephalopathy, or survival. 
Macrophage apolipoprotein synthesis and endoneurial distribution as a response to segmental demyelination. The synthesis and endoneurial distribution of apolipoproteins in response to myelin degradation was elucidated morphologically and biochemically in rodent models of segmental demyelination. At the onset of acute demyelination induced by tellurium (Te) poisoning, macrophages infiltrated the endoneurium and then began to express cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for apolipoprotein E (apo E). When demyelinating nerve slices were incubated with S35-methionine, radiolabeled apo E was released, showing that apo E was actively synthesized by the macrophages. Macrophages secreted apo E into the endoneurial spaces, leading to dense endoneurial accumulations. Other apolipoproteins (apo A1 and albumin) were not synthesized in the endoneurium, but they entered edematous nerves, presumably through an early breakdown in the blood-nerve barrier. During the phagocytosis of myelin, plasma-derived apolipoproteins accumulated within some of the macrophages. In chronic demyelination caused by lead poisoning, the cellular and extracellular distribution of apolipoproteins was similar to Te neuropathy; the amount of apo E accumulation and the macrophage density were proportional to the prevalence of active demyelination in teased fibers. Similar patterns of endoneurial apo E were present in an inherited form of demyelination in the twitcher mouse, after antibody-mediated demyelination, and in demyelination secondary to axonal degeneration. Human sural nerve biopsies had patterns of apolipoprotein E antigenicity that were comparable to the rodent models. We conclude that secretion of apo E by infiltrating macrophages is a generalized response to demyelination, and that endoneurial edema leads to the accumulation of certain plasma apolipoproteins within macrophages. These data suggest that endoneurial apolipoproteins and macrophages might mediate important functions in patients recovering from primary and secondary demyelination. 
Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome. The association of congenital ablepharon with the absence of eyelashes and eyebrows, a wide mouth (macrostomia), and auricular, nasal, genital, and other systemic anomalies has been termed the ablepharon macrostomia syndrome. One such case is reported which illustrates the importance of immediate postnatal ocular management to minimise severe visual loss. 
Daily chronic headache. Headache is a disabling condition, and medical science has not, until recently, begun to address it in a fashion consistent with its widespread impact. Despite the limitations in our current understanding, as well as the historical prejudice directed toward patients with this condition, current understanding and treatment approaches can provide hope and relief for most patients who have these disorders. 
Bilateral retinal hamartomas in neurofibromatosis type 2. We report a case of bilateral retinal hamartomas in a child with neurofibromatosis type 2. This unique case demonstrates that a diversity of retinal changes can occur in this disease. 
Prevalence and severity of morbidity among Gujarati Asian elders: a controlled comparison. Asian elders make relatively heavy use of health services: this may be due to higher levels of morbidity, but controlled comparisons have not been carried out. A comparison of the prevalence and severity of chronic diseases and use of health services of Asian and indigenous elders was made. A sample of 59 Gujarati Asians of mean age 62.9 years and 59 indigenous subjects of mean age 63.9 years of whom 42% (25 in each group) were female drawn from a general practice was studied. Asian subjects had a higher prevalence of diagnosed diseases, with the exception of chronic obstructive airways disease, but lower risk of falls and urinary incontinence. Asian subjects had higher life satisfaction scores and lower prevalence of depressed mood. Asian women were more likely to have had contact with primary care services. Both Asian men and women had more frequent hospital admissions, but similar levels of out-patient attendance. Body mass index, blood pressure and shoulder joint range of movement were similar for both Asians and the indigenous population. Asian subjects had significantly lower peak expiratory flow rates and hand grip strength. Asian elders have a higher risk of chronic diseases, but the impact of disease (indicated by life satisfaction, mood, and common disabilities) is less than among the indigenous population. Lower peak expiratory flow rates and grip strength among Asian elders are of concern since they may lead to premature arrival at age-related thresholds of physical capacity essential for independence in activities of daily living. 
Abrupt vessel closure following platelet transfusion post-PTCA. A successful PTCA was complicated by abrupt closure following a platelet transfusion which was given for control of local bleeding. Possible mechanisms of abrupt closure are discussed. Recommendation is made to avoid giving platelet transfusion following PTCA. 
Why all placentas should be examined by a pathologist in 1990 Placental pathology is rarely a part of the training for either obstetrician or pathologist. As a result there has been confusion regarding the potential benefits of routine placental examination. These benefits include clarification of the causes of many adverse pregnancy outcomes, improvement of the risk assessment for future pregnancies, and ascertainment of newborn risk for long-term neurodevelopment sequelae. Information on placental abnormalities may reveal the presence of chronic fetal insults and allow their differentiation from acute (peripartum) stresses. Current methods of risk assessment fail to identify the majority of pregnancies that end in prematurity, stillbirth, growth retardation, or fetal distress. We suggest that placental pathology should be a routine component of obstetric-neonatal care. 
Gaze-dependent hemianopia without hemispatial neglect. A hemispheric field is the space defined by the midsagittal plane of the body. Hemianopia, in the absence of hemispheric spatial neglect, has been thought to be purely retinotopic. Confrontation testing of visual fields in eccentric positions of gaze in hemianopic patients permits the discrimination of hemispheric from retinotopic deficits. In the primary position of gaze, a patient with an ischemic lesion of the right occipital and temporal lobes, who was without unilateral spatial neglect, was unable to detect finger movement, name objects, or identify shapes or colors in the left retinotopic hemifield, but when gazing 30 degrees to the right (so that the left retinotopic field was in the right hemispheric field), he performed nearly as well in the left retinotopic field as in the right. The mechanism of this gaze-dependent hemifield visual impairment is unknown, but we discuss four possibilities: (1) eccentric gaze enhances an alternative visual system; (2) the lesion led to modality-specific hemispheric inattention that was corrected by directing intention (plan to act) and gazing to the right; (3) the lesion led to modality specific inattention that was corrected by compensatory mechanisms that may normally enhance attentive vigilance in central space during eccentric gaze; and (4) the neuronal substrate for hemispheric vision was destroyed, whereas that for retinotopic vision was preserved. 
Coronary heart disease risk markers in users of low-dose oral contraceptives. Seven combination oral contraceptives (OCs) were studied for their effects on glucose, insulin, triglyceride and lipoprotein concentrations. Subjects included 925 women using fixed-dose (monophasic) or variable-dose (triphasic) formulations and 418 premenopausal women not using OCs. The monophasics contained 150 or 250 micrograms of levonorgestrel, 500 or 1,000 micrograms of norethindrone or 150 micrograms of desogestrel as the progestin. Triphasic progestin doses were 50-125 micrograms of levonorgestrel or 500-1,000 micrograms of norethindrone. All the formulations increased the fasting serum triglycerides. No changes were seen in serum total cholesterol. The effects on serum lipoproteins depended on the progestin type and dose. Monophasics containing 500 micrograms of norethindrone or 150 micrograms of desogestrel lowered low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and increased high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Monophasics containing levonorgestrel reduced HDL cholesterol. The triphasics did not affect LDL or HDL cholesterol but altered the balance of HDL subfractions. All the formulations caused a deterioration in glucose tolerance and insulin resistance and increased pancreatic insulin secretion. The greatest effects were seen with formulations containing levonorgestrel. The study showed that a reduction in the progestin dose and use of novel progestins can reduce the potentially adverse effects of OCs on metabolic risk markers for coronary heart disease. 
Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of uveal tumors. We detected seven tumors with magnetic resonance imaging, which demonstrate some of the uses and limitations of this diagnostic technique. In one patient, the correct diagnosis of extraocular extension was demonstrated with magnetic resonance imaging when both clinical and ultrasonographic data were not diagnostic. In another case, an extremely small area of extraocular extension was detected with ultrasound evaluation but was not noted on magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging is highly reliable in the detection of intraocular tumors. In pigmented uveal melanomas it is both sensitive and highly specific. In amelanotic processes magnetic resonance imaging can identify a mass but cannot always adequately characterize it. Further experience will be necessary to determine the proper role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of uveal tumors. 
Socioeconomic status and visual impairment among urban Americans. Baltimore Eye Survey Research Group. The Baltimore Eye Survey is a population-based study of ocular disorders conducted in East Baltimore, Md, designed to determine the prevalence and severity of vision loss and ocular disease and their relationships to socioeconomic and other risk factors. This survey comprised 5300 subjects (2911 whites and 2389 blacks). Visual impairment was associated with age, race, general health status, educational level, income, and employment status. An identified association of race with blindness and visual impairment was reduced, but not eliminated, after adjustment for these socioeconomic factors, indicating that socioeconomic status itself is an important determinant of visual impairment. 
Open reduction and internal fixation of two-part displaced fractures of the greater tuberosity of the proximal part of the humerus. Twelve patients, ranging in age from thirty-four to seventy-two years (average, fifty-three years), were evaluated an average of five years (range, two to eight years) after open reduction and internal fixation of a two-part displaced fracture of the greater tuberosity of the proximal part of the humerus. The indication for operative reduction was one centimeter or more of displacement of the fracture as seen on the diagnostic radiographs. The anterosuperior deltoid-splitting approach, combined with rotation of the humerus, allowed adequate exposure of the retracted tuberosity. Internal fixation of the greater tuberosity with heavy, non-absorbable sutures and careful repair of the rotator cuff permitted early passive motion. All fractures healed without postoperative displacement. Six patients had an excellent result and six had a good result; active elevation averaged 170 degrees. There was one partial, transient palsy of the axillary nerve. 
Steps towards cost-benefit analysis of regional neurosurgical care OBJECTIVE--To determine the cost of averting death or severe disability by neurosurgical intervention. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis of one year's admissions for neurosurgery; comparison of outcome with expected outcome in the absence of neurosurgical intervention and with the cost of neurosurgery. SETTING--Wessex Neurological Centre. PATIENTS--1026 Patients were admitted to the neurosurgical service in 1984. Of 1185 admissions, 978 case records were available and outcome was known in 919. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Outcome was assessed with the Glasgow outcome scale, modified as necessary, from the case notes, or by letter follow up to the general practitioner. Expected outcomes for each of the 54 diagnoses were derived from both published reports where available and an expert panel of 18 consultant neurosurgeons. The cost of the neurosurgical service for 1983-4 was known from a separate study and the cost per patient was calculated using the length of stay. RESULTS--The cost of neurosurgery in 1983-4 was 1.8 million pounds. In all, 243 deaths or severe disabilities were estimated to have been averted at an average cost of 7325 pounds (range 5000 pounds to 70,000 pounds). The overall cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) was 350 pounds (range 34 pounds to greater than 400,000 pounds). The cost of long term care for severely disabled survivors is at least 18-fold greater than the cost of neurosurgical intervention to avert such disability. CONCLUSIONS--In Britain neurosurgery is not expensive in comparison with the costs and benefits of other areas of medicine, and the cost per QALY is unexpectedly low except for severe diffuse head injury, malignant brain tumors, and cerebral metastases. The neurosurgical budget should be assessed in the context of managing a patient in hospital and subsequently in the community. 
Double-blind placebo-controlled trial of buflomedil in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon: six-month follow-up. The efficacy of buflomedil in reducing the mean daily frequency and severity of winter ischemic attacks has been shown in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial including 31 patients (16 in the buflomedil group, 15 in the placebo group) suffering from idiopathic Raynaud's phenomenon and followed up for six months. The efficacy was confirmed by nail fold capillaroscopy, which showed a significant alleviation of hemodymanic disturbances and background pallor in comparison with the placebo. Results in terms of clinical and laboratory safety parameters assessed over a six-month period were satisfactory, thus demonstrating the possibility of a long-term treatment. 
Review article: migraine and pregnancy. A 27-year-old woman with no family or personal history of migraine presented with headache associated with unilateral paresthesias and blurred vision. This was her first, and so far only, attack of migraine with aura and led to the diagnosis of her pregnancy and to this review. Migraine can begin for the first time with pregnancy, particularly in the first trimester. Cases of migraine with aura are the most commonly reported. Preexisting migraine usually improves with pregnancy, particularly if it was associated with menstrual migraine. Headache occurs frequently in the post-partum period, particularly in known migraineurs. Migraineurs have no increased risk of complications during pregnancy and their children have no increased incidence of birth defects. 
Foodborne outbreak of gastroenteritis caused by Escherichia coli O157:H7--North Dakota, 1990. In late July and early August 1990, an outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred among persons who had eaten a meal while attending an agricultural threshing show in North Dakota on July 28-29. At least 70 (3.5%) of the more than 2000 attendees were affected; of these, 16 persons were hospitalized, and two children, aged 2 and 8 years, were diagnosed with hemolytic uremic syndrome. An epidemiologic investigation was conducted by the North Dakota State Department of Health and Consolidated Laboratories. 
Kaposi's sarcoma in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis possible responsibility of captopril in the development of lesions. Kaposi's sarcoma appeared 8 months after the start of captopril treatment in a 70-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis. A marked reduction of cutaneous and gastric lesions occurred when captopril was stopped. These findings are compared to immunosuppressive drug induced forms of Kaposi's sarcoma. 
Non-invasive assessment of perioperative myocardial cell damage by circulating cardiac troponin T. Troponin T is a unique cardiac antigen which is continuously released from infarcting myocardium. Its cardiospecificity as a marker protein might be particularly useful in assessing myocardial cell damage in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Therefore, circulating troponin T was measured in serial blood samples from 56 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and in two control groups--22 patients undergoing minor orthopaedic surgery and 12 patients undergoing lung surgery by median sternotomy. In both control groups no troponin T could be detected, whereas activities of creatine kinase were raised in all 12 lung surgery controls and activities of the MB isoenzyme were raised in five of the 12 patients in the lung surgery group and in four of the 22 patients in the orthopaedic surgery group, respectively. All the patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 47) and cardiac surgery for other reasons (n = 9) had detectable concentrations of troponin T. Five patients had perioperative myocardial infarction detected as new Q waves and R wave reductions. In these five patients troponin T release persisted and serum concentrations (5.5-23 micrograms/l) reached a peak on the fourth postoperative day. In the 51 patients without perioperative myocardial infarction serum concentrations and the release kinetics of troponin T depended on the duration of cardiac arrest. In patients in whom aortic cross clamping was short troponin T increased slightly on the first postoperative days; in patients with longer periods of aortic cross clamping troponin T concentrations were higher and remained so beyond the fifth postoperative day. 
Hemodialysis grafts: color Doppler flow imaging correlated with digital subtraction angiography and functional status. Twenty-two patients with hemodialysis grafts were prospectively evaluated with color Doppler flow imaging and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Eighteen patients had normal functional parameters during hemodialysis, and four had increased venous pressure during hemodialysis. Color Doppler flow imaging allowed identification of nine macroaneurysms related to wall degeneration, two cases of spontaneous fistula formation between the graft and peripheral veins, and 20 stenoses. Use of color Doppler flow imaging led to overestimation of the degree of stenosis at the venous anastomosis when compared with use of angiography. Three cases of subclavian venous stenosis were identified only at angiography. Color Doppler flow imaging appears accurate in the detection of stenoses and seems sufficient for follow-up of normally functioning grafts. However, because of its low sensitivity for identification of proximal stenoses and the necessity of obtaining an angiogram to plan surgical or percutaneous correction, DSA remains the technique of choice. 
Coronary artery narrowing due to extrinsic compression by myocardial abscess. A case of aortic valve endocarditis complicated by perivalvular abscess extending into myocardium is presented. Echocardiography and aortography failed to detect the abscess, but coronary angiography revealed its presence by extrinsic compression of left anterior descending and diagonal arteries. Morphological features of this rare cause for coronary narrowing are described. 
Low angiotensinogen levels are related to the severity and liver dysfunction of congestive heart failure: implications for renin measurements. PURPOSE: To compare the determination of plasma renin activity (PRA) and the direct measurement of active renin by immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) as methods of assessing the renin system in patients with congestive heart failure. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The status of the renin-angiotensin system in congestive heart failure was assessed by measuring the plasma renin substrate concentration, PRA, and plasma concentration of active renin in 37 patients with mild to severe congestive heart failure. Natremia and plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) were determined as biologic indexes of the severity of heart failure, and concentrations of prealbumin and retinol-binding protein were used as indexes of liver dysfunction. RESULTS: The PRA and the concentrations of active renin and ANF were markedly higher in patients with New York Heart Association class IV heart failure than in patients with class II to III heart failure, while natremia and the concentrations of renin substrate, prealbumin, and retinol-binding protein were markedly lower in the class IV patients than in the class II to III patients. Plasma renin substrate concentration was negatively correlated with active renin concentration (n = 37, r = -0.45, p = 0.005), and positively related to natremia (r = 0.56, p less than 0.0005), prealbumin (r = 0.54, p less than 0.001), and retinol-binding protein (r = 0.60, p less than 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: Low levels of plasma renin substrate can be considered as an indirect index of the severity of heart failure that reflects both the high level of circulating active renin and the decrease in hepatic protein output. In patients with class IV heart failure, low levels of renin substrate led to a marked underestimation of active renin concentration from measurements of PRA. In contrast, direct IRMA of active renin measures the true plasma active renin concentration, independent of plasma renin substrate, and closely reflects renin secretion. 
Human astrocytes contain two distinct angiotensin receptor subtypes. The ability of angiotensin peptides to stimulate prostaglandin release and raise intracellular calcium levels by activating a phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C was assessed in three human astrocytoma cell lines (CRTG3, STTG1, and WITG2). The addition of angiotensin II to CRTG3 cells resulted in a dose-dependent release of prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin, the production of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, and the mobilization of intracellular calcium. Angiotensin-(1-7), previously considered to be an inactive metabolite of angiotensin II, was as potent as angiotensin II for prostaglandin release but did not activate phospholipase C or mobilize intracellular calcium. In contrast, angiotensin-(2-8) caused only a slight increase in prostaglandin release, even though it was as effective as angiotensin II in augmenting inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate production and calcium mobilization. Moreover, neither the release of prostaglandins in response to angiotensin II or angiotensin-(1-7) nor the mobilization of intracellular calcium in response to angiotensin II required extracellular calcium. Angiotensin II and angiotensin-(1-7) caused the release of prostaglandins from all three human astrocytoma cell lines, but changes in the level of intracellular calcium in response to angiotensin II only occurred in CRTG3 cells. Although previous studies have provided evidence for angiotensin receptor subtypes on the basis of selectivity of antagonists or signal transduction mechanisms, these data suggest that human astrocytes contain multiple angiotensin receptor subtypes on the basis of their response to different angiotensin heptapeptides--angiotensin-(1-7) and angiotensin-(2-8). 
Surgical and chemotherapeutic treatment of hepatic metastases from carcinoma of the breast. To date, no five year survival rates have been reported for patients with hepatic metastases (HM) from breast origin treated by chemotherapy or hormone therapy. This study was done to evaluate whether or not surgical excision of such metastatic disease associated with chemotherapy has any effect on such a poor prognosis. Between May 1985 and September 1988, 22 patients with a diagnosis of isolated (solitary or multiple) HM have been surgically treated. The therapeutic approach also included systemic preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy. Laparotomy findings for those 22 patients are presented. There were benign hepatic lesions in four patients (four different histologic types) and hepatectomy was done in two patients. Diffuse metastatic disease contraindicated any attempt at hepatic resection in six patients. Hepatectomy was possible in 12 patients. There was no postoperative mortality and minimal morbidity. One-half of the patients with metastases had one or more positive lymph nodes at the hepatic pedicule. Median survival time for 12 patients treated by hepatectomy was 37 +/- 9 months after hepatectomy and 42 +/- 3 months after the discovery of HM. Eleven patients had other metastases after an average period of 11.8 months after hepatectomy, and the liver was the first site of recurrence in eight. One patient underwent a hepatectomy twice. Two patients were free of disease 29 to 46 months postoperatively in spite of poor prognostic features on the excised specimen. Although the median survival time was two times better than with usual treatment, we believe this procedure is of doubtful benefit. In this situation, hepatectomy acts as cytoreductive surgical treatment, with the main limiting factor being the relatively low effectiveness of chemotherapy. This type of therapy can be applied only to a restricted number of patients, and if we decide to proceed with this study, we will have to modify the protocol of chemotherapy radically. 
The Health of the Public Program at the University of Washington: a new role for academic medical centers. The University of Washington Health of the Public Program has convened a consortium composed of the region's academic medical center, the two largest managed care plans in Washington, and representatives of the state's major private and public purchasers of health care. The consortium's purpose is to test the feasibility of collaboratively collecting cross-system data, assessing variations in practice, and implementing site-specific interventions to improve the management of common illnesses and encourage preventive care. Changes under way in the ambulatory training environment and in the undergraduate curriculum as a result of the consortium's initial efforts are described. In today's climate of cost consciousness and concerns about quality, academic medical centers can play an important role in helping to improve community-wide outcomes of care. 
Noninvasive detection of reperfusion in acute myocardial infarction based on plasma activity of creatine kinase MB subforms. Successful thrombolytic therapy is associated with an accelerated release of creatine kinase (CK) MB from necrotic myocardium. With use of a previously validated assay, the plasma kinetics of the myocardial subform (MB2) and the plasma-modified subform (MB1) were determined in blood samples obtained from 56 patients with acute Q wave myocardial infarction: 33 patients who received thrombolytic therapy (group A) and 23 patients managed conservatively (group B). Plasma MB2 activity increased more rapidly in the group A patients, but there was substantial overlap with group B. Plasma MB1 activity did not differ significantly between the two groups. The MB2/MB1 ratio was significantly higher in group A patients than in group B patients between 2 and 10 h after the onset of infarction. Among group A patients, the ratio increased from 2.4 +/- 1.6 to 4.6 +/- 2.0 in the 1st h after therapy (p less than 0.001). The peak ratio was 6.3 +/- 2.5 in group A patients and 3.1 +/- 1.2 in group B patients. Twenty-seven of the 33 group A patients had a peak ratio greater than 3.8 versus 5 of the 23 group B patients (p less than 0.001). In seven group A patients, the ratio was greater than 3.8 before plasma CK MB activity was out of the normal range. Angiography was performed at 5.0 +/- 3.5 days in 39 patients. Eighteen (90%) of 20 patients with a patent infarct-related artery had a peak ratio greater than 3.8; 17 (89.5%) of 19 patients with an occluded infarct-related artery had a ratio less than 3.8 (p less than 0.001). 
Estimate of breast cancer risk reduction with weight loss. Upper body fat localization has been associated with an increased risk of cancer. This study demonstrated that 64.2% of 124 women with at least a 4.5-kg weight loss decreased their upper body fat localization, as measured by a reduction in their suprailiac-thigh skin fold ratio and other skin fold thicknesses associated with upper body fat localization. Based on a risk model previously developed for breast cancer and upper body fat localization, a reduction in estimated breast cancer relative risk of 45% was calculated for the entire group of women who lost 4.5 kg or more in weight. Greater weight loss further reduced upper body fat localization and estimated breast cancer risk based on this model. 
Severity of childhood bacterial meningitis and duration of illness before diagnosis. Rapid diagnosis of childhood bacterial meningitis (BM) is generally believed to be essential to avoid poor outcome. To see whether duration of illness before admission to hospital was related to the severity of illness, data from children with BM diagnosed in 18 paediatric hospitals in Finland from 1984 to 1989 were collected prospectively. We divided 286 cases with culture-positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) into three groups: BM with a history of up to 24 h (short-history group, n = 141), of more than 24 h and up to 48 h (intermediate-history group, n = 75), and of more than 48 h (long-history group, n = 70). The longer the history, the better the clinical condition of the child. If symptoms or signs of BM lasted 48 h or less, the child did significantly worse, as judged by seven variables, than if the history was longer than 48 h (level of consciousness, p less than 0.001; seizures, p less than 0.01; CSF protein concentration, p less than 0.001; positive CSF gram-stain, p less than 0.01; positive blood culture, p less than 0.05 in Haemophilus influenzae meningitis; serum C-reactive protein, p less than 0.01 between intermediate-history and long-history groups; and urine sodium concentration, p less than 0.001). The differences were not affected by causative organism, sex, age, or preadmission oral antimicrobial agents. The findings show that if BM follows an insidious pattern of disease, diagnostic delay may be unavoidable, which may have medicolegal implications. 
Successful treatment of a persistent cyst, developing after ovarian transposition, with leuprolide acetate. Persistent ovarian cysts are considered to be the most troublesome complication of ovarian transposition. Transabdominal drainage or surgical removal is often required. This paper reports the successful use of leuprolide acetate, a GnRH agonist, in the treatment of a symptomatic and persistent ovarian cyst which developed after ovarian transposition. The benefits of this therapy over others are discussed. 
Hereditary ataxias and paraplegias in Cantabria, Spain. An epidemiological and clinical study. A clinical, genetic and epidemiological study of hereditary ataxias and paraplegias was conducted within a defined area (Cantabria) in Northern Spain from 1974 to 1986. The series comprised 48 index cases and 65 affected relatives. On prevalence day, 103 patients were alive, giving a prevalence of 20.2 cases per 100,000. There were 24 patients (18 families) with Friedreich's ataxia (FA), 12 (6 families) with early onset cerebellar ataxia (EOCA) differing from FA, 6 (3 families) with dominantly transmitted late onset cerebellar ataxia (LOCA), 11 with 'idiopathic' LOCA, 49 (9 families) with 'pure' hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), and 1 patient with congenital cerebellar ataxia. The prevalence found here is comparable with the highest figures described in previous surveys. This may in part be due to the great number of secondary cases in our series. A high frequency of parental consanguinity occurred in FA patients, 'pseudodominant' inheritance being observed in 1 family. The clinical features were those of classical FA except for later onset and slower course in 1 family, and retained tendon reflexes in the lower limbs in 2 cases. Such data indicate the need for modification of the essential criteria for the disease. EOCA included 4 patients with normoreflexic ataxia and 1 patient with ataxia and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone deficiency. In addition, there were 7 patients from 2 unrelated families with a homogeneous syndrome characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance, cerebellar ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa and sensory neuropathy. This syndrome is therefore a well defined nosological entity to be added to the list of autosomal recessive mendelian phenotypes. The clinical picture of patients with LOCA was either a 'pure' cerebellar or a 'cerebellar-plus' syndrome. Genetic subgroups of 'pure' HSP were autosomal dominant type I in 5 families and type II in 2, and autosomal recessive in 2 families. 
C-reactive protein as an index of disease activity. Comparison of tenidap, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in rat adjuvant arthritis. C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations are a useful plasma protein measure that correlate with disease severity and radiographic progression in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We compared 3 drugs with different mechanisms, i.e., tenidap, dexamethasone and cyclophosphamide, on both CRP levels and soft tissue swelling in the rat adjuvant arthritis model. CRP rose from a normal concentration of approximately 400 micrograms/ml during the first phase of adjuvant arthritis to approximately 1200 micrograms/ml (primary response), then fell to approximately 900 micrograms/ml and rose again as the disease became systemic during the secondary response to approximately 1400 micrograms/ml. When treatment was administered prophylactically, tenidap and dexamethasone suppressed both the primary and secondary CRP and swelling responses. Cyclophosphamide was without effect in the primary response, but inhibited both swelling and CRP in the secondary response. When therapeutic treatment was begun after secondary disease was established, only tenidap and dexamethasone inhibited CRP and swelling. Both dexamethasone and cyclophosphamide decreased lymphocyte numbers during treatment whereas lymphocyte numbers were elevated during tenidap treatment, suggesting a different mechanism of action for tenidap. CRP levels were more closely linked to the rate of change of paw swelling (disease progression) than to paw volume. 
Treatment of ulcerated hemangiomas with the pulsed tunable dye laser. Hemangiomas are the most common tumor of infancy and are characterized by rapid growth during the first 6 months of life. During the rapid growth phase, approximately 5% to 10% of the hemangiomas ulcerate. Ulcerated lesions are painful, may bleed, and are at risk for bacterial infection. Previous therapy has included daily local wound care, topical antibiotics, and local and systemic steroids. We treated nine infants (eight female and one male) with ulcerated hemangiomas by means of a vascular-specific (585-nm) pulsed (450-microsecond) tunable dye laser. Eight of the nine patients had a single ulceration, whereas one patient had two ulcerations within a large hemangioma. Six of the ulcerations healed with a single laser treatment. One ulceration required two treatments to heal, and the remaining two required three treatments. Pain was subjectively decreased within 2 to 3 days in all patients after a single treatment. The pulsed tunable dye laser should be considered in the treatment of all ulcerated hemangiomas. 
Randomised trial of laxatives in treatment of childhood encopresis. Primary faecal incontinence (encopresis) in children is usually treated with laxative medication and a behaviour modification programme aimed at promoting regular toileting, but the effectiveness of laxatives has never been adequately investigated. 169 children with encopresis and evidence of stool on plain abdominal radiograph were randomly allocated to receive multimodal (MM) therapy (laxatives plus behaviour modification; n = 83) or behaviour modification alone (BM; n = 86). Mean (SD) follow-up was 55.1 (27.0) weeks and 56.7 (32.0) weeks, respectively. By 12 months' follow-up 42 (51%) of the MM group and 31 (36%) of the BM group (p = 0.079) had achieved remission (at least one 4 week period with no soiling episodes) and 52 (63%) vs 37 (43%) (p = 0.016) had achieved at least partial remission (soiling no more than once a week). MM subjects achieved remission significantly sooner than BM subjects, and the difference in the Kaplan-Meier remission curves was most striking in the first 30 weeks of follow-up (p = 0.012). The patterns of compliance with toileting in the treatment groups were almost identical, although about 1 in 8 children overall did not comply with the sitting programme. After exclusion of the 24 poor compliers, there was no significant difference between BM and MM groups. This study shows a clear advantage overall for the use of laxative medication, although the benefit may not be as great for children who are able to maintain regular toileting. 
Benign pleural effusions in long-standing diabetes mellitus. We studied intractable pleural effusions in five patients with long-standing diabetes mellitus and an additional 40 patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction to determine whether the frequency of pleural effusions is increased in diabetic patients and, if so, the relation of pleural effusions to left ventricular dysfunction. In our initial observations, effusions were benign, were not always associated with congestive heart failure (CHF), and reaccumulated following thoracentesis. Effusions associated with CHF persisted despite medical treatment and improvement of CHF. In our study of 40 patients with similar degrees of left ventricular dysfunction, the incidence of pleural effusions in diabetic patients was 83 percent and in our nondiabetic patients was 14 percent (p less than 0.001). We conclude that pleural effusions occur more commonly in diabetic than nondiabetic patients and may be related to left ventricular dysfunction and possibly other factors leading to increased effusion. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy of high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremity. Updated results of the Multi-Institutional Osteosarcoma Study. The Multi-Institutional Osteosarcoma Study (MIOS) was designed to determine whether intensive multiagent adjuvant chemotherapy improves the outcome of patients with nonmetastatic high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremity as compared with concurrent controls. After definitive surgery of the primary tumor, patients were randomly assigned to immediate adjuvant chemotherapy or to observation without adjuvant treatment. Updated results of this trial indicate that the projected six-year event-free survival for the control group is 11% compared to 61% for the chemotherapy group (p less than 0.001). Similar results were observed in patients who declined randomization but who were followed according to the treatment arms of the protocol. When randomized and nonrandomized patients are pooled according to assigned treatment, a survival advantage favoring those patients treated with immediate adjuvant chemotherapy is apparent. An analysis of prognostic factors among patients receiving immediate adjuvant chemotherapy reveals that elevation of the serum lactic dehydrogenase at diagnosis is the factor most predictive of adverse outcome. Location of the primary site in the tibia confers a favorable prognosis. The authors conclude that the natural history of high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremity has not changed over the past two decades. The administration of immediate adjuvant chemotherapy has a significant favorable impact on event-free survival and should be recommended for all such patients. 
The transmandibular implant: a 13-year survey of its use. During the period from August 1976 until July 1989 the transmandibular implant was introduced in a total of 31 oral and maxillofacial surgery departments in the Netherlands and 1,466 patients were treated. This study includes 1,356 treated patients from 28 departments. The treatment course of 1,201 patients (89.6%) was uneventful. Of the 157 complications, 58 related to the anatomic contour of the mandible, 49 to the surgery, 25 to the prosthetic reconstruction, 8 to the psychosocial attitude of the patient, 8 to the use of medication, 5 to trauma, and 4 to the presence of a skin graft. Treatment of the complications included removal of the implant in 44 patients; in 106 patients the complication was treated satisfactorily. In the remaining 7 patients, hypesthesia was present. The reasons for the removal of the 44 implants were infection (11), operative error (5), premature loading of the implant (3), insufficient width of the mandible after a visor osteotomy (1), loss of osseointegration caused by the prosthesis (14), psychological problems (4), trauma (3), drug-related gingival hyperplasia (2), and inexplicable pain (1). The present survey shows a consistent success rate of 96.8%. 
Conservative management of intraductal carcinoma (DCIS) of the breast. Collaborating NSABP investigators. Seventy-six patients with intraductal carcinoma (DCIS) of the breast have been observed for 83 months (range 50-141) following treatment by lumpectomy (L) only (21), L and breast irradiation (XRT) (27), or mastectomy (28). All represented examples of DCIS retrieved after pathologic examination of a much larger cohort of patients with stage I and II invasive breast cancer enrolled in NSABP protocol 6. Local breast recurrences were similar for women with DCIS and those from this cohort at a similar period of follow-up with invasive cancer treated by L only (43% vs. 39%) and L + XRT (7% vs. 10%). The presence of moderate/marked comedonecrosis was suggestively related to local breast recurrence (P = .07). This latter was significantly reduced for patients receiving post L XRT (P = .01). All local breast recurrences in this study and 29 of 31 recorded by others occurred at or close to the site of extirpation of the index cancer minimizing multicentricity as a contraindication for the conservative surgical treatment of DCIS. Survival rates which were similar for patients with DCIS regardless of form of local treatment were better than that observed for negative node patients with invasive cancer enrolled in protocol 6. Thus, DCIS is a less, not more, ominous disease than invasive cancer. This and other features of its natural history indicate that it would be a contradiction to treat invasive cancer but not DCIS conservatively. 
Maple syrup urine disease. Complete defect of the E1 beta subunit of the branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex due to a deletion of an 11-bp repeat sequence which encodes a mitochondrial targeting leader peptide in a family with the disease. Branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) deficiency results in maple syrup urine disease (MSUD). We examined the molecular basis of familial cases of MSUD by analyzing the activity, subunit structure, mRNA sequence, and genome structure of the affected enzyme. The BCKDH activity in the proband with MSUD was approximately 6% of the normal control level. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the E1 beta subunit of BCKDH was absent and that the E1 alpha subunit of BCKDH was markedly reduced. We amplified the cDNAs of the E1 alpha subunit and the E1 beta subunit of the BCKDH complex obtained from cells of the patient, using the polymerase chain reaction method, then sequenced the amplified cDNAs. The deduced amino acid sequence for the E1 alpha subunit of the patient's cell was normal. An 11-bp deletion was identified in the region that encoded the mitochondrial targeting leader peptide in the E1 beta cDNA. This 11-bp sequence is found in the first exon of the BCKDH-E1 beta gene, as a direct tandem repeat. Amplification of genomic DNA revealed that the consanguineous parents were heterozygous for this mutant allele, and sister and brother of the patient with the disease were homozygous for this mutant allele. This 11-bp deletion mutation caused a change in the reading frame and the mature E1 beta protein was defective. These observations show the biological importance of the E1 beta subunit of BCKDH to maintain normal function of the enzyme activity. The absence of the E1 beta subunit results in instability of the E1 alpha subunit. 
Eosinophilia myalgia syndrome: I. Immunocytochemical evidence for a T-cell-mediated immune effector response. Specimens of muscle and fascia from 13 patients fulfilling the Centers for Disease Control criteria for the eosinophilia myalgia syndrome (EMS) were studied by quantitative immunocytochemical analysis. The immunolocalization of CD3, CD4, CD8, CD22, and CD56 markers, the gamma delta T-cell receptor, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I complex and class II antigens, and complement membrane attack complex (MAC) were examined. The distribution and relative proportions of T cells and T-cell subsets, B cells, macrophages, and eosinophils were determined at perivascular, perimysial, endomysial, and fascial sites of accumulation. At all sites, T cells were predominant, CD8+ cells outnumbered CD4+ cells 6- to 20-fold, and between 60 and 80% of T cells were activated. B cells and eosinophils each accounted for less than 3% of inflammatory cells. Very few cells expressed either the gamma delta T-cell receptor or natural killer cell markers. As in dermatomyositis (DM), MHC class I antigen complex expression was increased on many structurally normal muscle fibers, but in contrast to DM, microvascular MAC deposits were not a feature of EMS. The findings implicate a cellular immune response directed against a connective tissue component in EMS. 
The expression of epidermal growth factor receptor on human bladder cancer: potential use in radioimmunoscintigraphy. Monoclonal antibody 425, which binds to an extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor, was used to evaluate the expression of this antigen on bladder cancer cells. Epidermal growth factor receptor was found on all bladder cancer cell lines tested. Immunoperoxidase staining of fourteen invasive human bladder cancers with monoclonal antibody 425 demonstrated that ten showed strong staining, one showed weak staining and three were negative. Five noninvasive tumors were similarly examined. Four of these were negative and one showed weak staining. Biodistribution experiments with human bladder tumor xenografts in athymic nude mice using radiolabeled monoclonal antibody 425 and an isotype matched control antibody demonstrated specific tumor localization at five and seven days following antibody injection. Successful imaging of a human bladder tumor xenograft was achieved five days post antibody injection. These data confirm that epidermal growth factor receptor expression correlates with bladder cancer stage and suggests that epidermal growth factor receptor may serve as a target antigen for radioimmunoscintigraphy. 
A quantitative histopathological study of right bundle branch block complicating acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether necrosis of the right bundle branch is responsible for development of right bundle branch block in acute myocardial infarction. Twenty patients with acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction were studied--10 with right bundle branch block (group A) and 10 without (group B)--to evaluate by serial sectioning the pathological extent of myocardial infarction surrounding the right bundle branch and also that of right bundle branch necrosis. Myocardial infarction reached the right bundle branch more than 8 mm above the moderator band in all of group A, whereas myocardial infarction reached the right bundle branch less than 3 mm above the moderator band in only three patients in group B. Nine hearts in group A showed significant necrosis of the right bundle branch. In group B and in one case with transient right bundle branch block no necrosis was found. The occurrence of right bundle branch block was almost entirely explained by necrosis of the right bundle branch, but transient right bundle branch block did develop without necrosis of the right bundle branch. 
The role of hospital delivery systems in the treatment of patients with acute myocardial infarction: rural hospital setting. Discussions on the use of thrombolytic therapy include when is the best time for administration, where is the best place for administration, and who is the most appropriate to begin the administration. Rapid triage and intervention for patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction are special challenges in rural communities. To evaluate the possibility of instituting rapid, "golden hour" treatment for the patient with acute myocardial infarction, rural health care resources must be reviewed. Changes in the health care environment and access to emergent care for the patient with acute myocardial infarction directly affect any treatment. Timely interventions depend on available personnel, appropriate clinical protocols, and regional network systems. 
Antibodies against acetaldehyde-modified epitopes: presence in alcoholic, non-alcoholic liver disease and control subjects. Several studies have recently shown the presence of antibodies against acetaldehyde-modifications in the sera of alcoholic patients. To assess the specificity of this immune response, plasma immunoreactivity with proteins modified in vitro by acetaldehyde was measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 97 alcoholic patients with varying degrees of alcoholic liver disease, in 35 patients with non-alcoholic liver diseases and in 33 control subjects who were social drinkers. All three groups showed some response against acetaldehyde-modified epitopes. The highest plasma reactivities were found in alcoholics, especially those with steatosis and alcoholic hepatitis. Plasma from patients with non-alcoholic liver disease and control subjects also reacted with the acetaldehyde conjugates, but to a lesser extent than plasma from alcoholics. The reliability of these antibodies as markers of either alcohol abuse or alcoholic liver disease therefore appears to be low. However, further studies using more precisely modified proteins or elucidation of the classes of immunoglobulin involved in the immune response against the modified proteins may give clearer differences between the three groups. 
Endoscopic laser therapy for obstructing tracheobronchial lesions. The Lahey Clinic experience using laser bronchoscopy for relief of obstructive tracheobronchial lesions during a 7-year period from 1982 to 1989 involves 269 patients treated with 400 procedures. The carbon dioxide (CO2) laser was used for tracheal stenosis and granulation tissue. The neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG) laser was used for all obstructing endobronchial neoplasms. Indications for therapy included severe dyspnea, hemoptysis, and postobstructive pneumonitis. All patients had relatively central lesions. A rigid bronchoscope was used to treat 88% of patients, and 12% of patients were treated with a flexible bronchoscope. One death occurred during the intraoperative period. Eleven deaths occurred within 1 week of therapy and were related to the presence of extensive malignant lesions or to coronary artery disease. Our experience indicates that bronchoscopic application of the CO2 or Nd:YAG laser affords effective palliation for patients with obstructive tracheobronchial lesions. The Nd:YAG laser is recommended for patients with bulky vascular endobronchial neoplasms, and the CO2 laser is best reserved for patients with benign tracheal stenosis and granulation tissue. 
Cause of death in unsuccessful prehospital resuscitation. During 1987-1988, prehospital resuscitation was unsuccessful in 204 of 381 patients who suffered a witnessed cardiac arrest due to presumed coronary heart disease in Helsinki. The cause of death was verified by autopsy in 80 (39%) of the 204 patients. Their cause of death could not be estimated on the basis of previous patient history, and their autopsy diagnoses were then related to the initial cardiac rhythm recorded at the scene. At autopsy, coronary heart disease was considered to have been the cause of death in 78% of the patients with ventricular fibrillation, in 43% of the patients with electromechanical dissociation (EMD), and in 60% of the patients in asystole. Cardiac tamponade or massive pulmonary embolism was the cause of death in 15 of the 28 patients with EMD who underwent autopsy. These findings support previously noted relationships between some causes of cardiac arrest and the initial cardiac rhythm, and also in prehospital cardiac arrest patients with unsuccessful resuscitation. 
Evidence from cadavers suggestive of entrapment of fifth lumbar spinal nerves by lumbosacral ligaments. Lumbosacral spines from 51 geriatric-age cadavers (25 men and 26 women) were examined both grossly and under the dissecting microscope for evidence of compression of fifth lumbar spinal nerves by their respective lumbosacral ligaments. These ligaments were found to extend from the transverse process and body of L5 to the ala of the sacrum in 97% of the specimens, and from the transverse process and body of L5 to the promontory of the sacrum in 3% of the specimens. Anterior primary rami of the fifth lumbar spinal nerve were observed to be compressed in 11% (11 of 102) of the specimens examined grossly and under the dissecting microscope. Histologic evidence of chronic compression, as suggested by perineurial and endoneurial fibrosis, peripheral thinning of myelin sheaths, or subjective evidence of a shift in fiber diameter to a population of smaller size fibers was found, deep to the lumbosacral ligament, in three of the 11 nerves judged to be compressed. The information derived is of interest to the clinician whose patient presents with L5 root signs and a myelogram, discogram, and computed tomographic scan which do not show any abnormality. The possibility of extraforaminal compression must be considered as a possible source of the clinical signs. 
MR evaluation of CNS tumors: dose comparison study with gadopentetate dimeglumine and gadoteridol. In phase II and III trials of gadoteridol (Gd-HP-D03A), a new nonionic, low-osmolar contrast agent, 40 patients with intracranial neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with experimental doses of 0.05-0.3 mmol/kg. Fifteen patients also underwent contrast studies with the standard dose (0.1 mmol/kg) of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Both gadopentetate dimeglumine and gadoteridol appear to have a similar effect when given in equal doses (0.1 mmol/kg, n = 5). Lesion enhancement and delineation were better at higher experimental doses (0.2 or 0.3 mmol/kg, n = 7) and worse at a lower experimental dose (0.05 mmol/kg, n = 3). Quantitative analysis of 10 lesions examined with identical imaging protocols revealed a directly proportional relationship (r = .975) between lesion contrast ratio and dose over a range of 0.05-0.3 mmol/kg. Phantom experiments support the clinical results. Improved enhancement, detection, and delineation of central nervous system (CNS) neoplasms resulting from increased injected doses of gadoteridol have the potential to be clinically significant and may justify the possibly higher cost of increased contrast material dosage. Lower doses may not be adequate for the evaluation of most CNS tumors. 
Importance of the renin-angiotensin system in sodium regulation in essential hypertension. To elucidate the effect of natriuretic and antinatriuretic factors on the excretion of an intravenous sodium load, we observed the natriuretic responses of 12 patients with essential hypertension (EHT) and 7 age- and sex-matched normotensive (NT) subjects following the intravenous administration of 1500 mL of normal saline over a 3 h period. After saline infusion, both groups showed increases in urinary sodium excretion (UNaV). The increases in glomerular filtration rate (GFR), atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and urinary dopamine excretion (UDAV) and the suppression of plasma renin activity (PRA) were similar in both groups. However, no significant change in blood pressure (BP) was seen in either group. Since significant negative linear correlations between the basal level of PRA and percent change in UNaV or GFR were seen only in EHT, we observed the influence of suppressing the renin-angiotensin system with a converting enzyme inhibitor. After a 7 day treatment with enalapril, GFR and UNaV in EHT after saline infusion were comparable to data obtained in the absence of enalapril, despite a reduction in preexpansion BP. Furthermore, a significant positive correlation between the basal BP and the percent increase in UNaV was seen among EHT after enalapril treatment. These results suggest that the state of the renin-angiotensin system is important in renal sodium excretion in EHT. 
Mechanisms of otitis media development. Involvement of neurogenic inflammation. The mucosal lining of the middle ear cavity, in particular that of the tympanic membrane and its pars flaccida, exhibits a number of sensory nerves containing the neuropeptides substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). The mucosa is not only rich in nerves and blood vessels but also contains numerous mast cells. It is possible that interactions between histamine-containing mast cells and SP-containing and CGRP-containing nerves--neurogenic inflammation--is one of the mechanisms involved in vessel permeability changes in otitis media with effusion. 
Telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma of the extremities. Results in 17 patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Seventeen patients with telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma (TOS) of the extremities were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, according to two different protocols. Preoperatively, the patients received high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) and cisplatinum (CPD) (HD-MTX/CPD) and doxorubicin. CPD was delivered intraarterially, the other drugs intravenously. Limb-salvage surgery was performed in 12 instances, and five patients were treated with amputation. Postoperative chemotherapy was tailored according to the grade of chemotherapy-induced necrosis. In 13 cases (86%), the resultant grade of necrosis was greater than 90% (good responders). The mean follow-up interval was 3.5 years with a range of 18 to 78 months. Fourteen patients (82%) remained continuously disease-free, while three patients developed lung metastases. Two of these died because of uncontrolled disease, whereas the third patient is alive and disease-free after metastasectomy. No local recurrences were observed. These results are better than those observed in 215 contemporary cases of conventional osteosarcoma treated with the same protocols. This study confirms that TOS is not a uniformly lethal tumor as suggested by prior reports. By employing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, a high percentage of patients with TOS can be cured, and in most of them, a limb-sparing surgery is possible and safe. 
Clinical features of 31 patients with Ki-1 anaplastic large-cell lymphoma Thirty-one patients were diagnosed by morphologic and immunophenotypic features as having primary Ki-1 anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (Ki-1 ALCL). the median age was 35 years (range, 4 months to 78 years); the male:female ratio was 18:13. B symptoms were observed in 13 patients. Peripheral adenopathy was present in 26 patients, while mediastinal adenopathy occurred in five. There was extranodal disease in 13 patients; the most common extranodal site was skin with seven affected. Seventeen patients had stage III/IV disease. Immunophenotypes were T cell in 24 patients and B cell in four patients; immunophenotype could not be determined in three patients. Cytogenetic abnormalities in chromosomes 2, 5, and 7 were detected in three patients. Although therapy was heterogeneous, the actuarial 2-year survival was 73%. Two-year disease-free survival was 39% for all patients; for stages I and II, it was 62% compared with 20% for stages III and IV (P = .001). Complete remission (CR) occurred in 21 of 23 patients receiving combination chemotherapy; however, nine relapses, including six of seven stage IV patients, occurred within 21 months of diagnosis. Preliminary observations suggest that Ki-1 ALCL may have a quiescent phase in the rare patient with only localized skin disease. However, the disease generally behaves as an intermediate- to high-grade lymphoma, and patients with Ki-1 ALCL should receive curative-intent combination chemotherapy. 
Renal vascular response to sodium loading in sons of hypertensive parents. Studies of normotensive offspring of hypertensive parents offer the potential to identify inherited abnormalities that contribute to essential hypertension. We compared renal and systemic hemodynamic responses to saline infusion between normotensive sons of two hypertensive parents (SOHT) and sons of two normotensive parents (SONT) selected from the general population of Rochester, Minn. Hemodynamic measurements were performed after a week of low sodium intake (10 meq/day) and were repeated after a week of high sodium intake (200 meq/day). Despite being in the normotensive range, blood pressures in SOHT were higher than those in SONT during low sodium (124 +/- 3/85 +/- 3 versus 118 +/- 2/71 +/- 2 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and high sodium (122 +/- 3/80 +/- 3 versus 112 +/- 2/70 +/- 2 mm Hg, p less than 0.05) conditions. Higher pressures in SOHT were associated with elevated systemic and renal vascular resistance. After a high sodium diet, renal vascular resistance in SOHT rose further during acute saline infusion, whereas systemic vascular resistance did not change. After a low sodium diet, this renal vasoconstrictor response to saline infusion in SOHT was not present, and renal vascular resistance fell to levels not different from SONT. Plasma renin activity, aldosterone, and atrial natriuretic peptide did not differ between SONT and SOHT. Circulating levels of norepinephrine were higher in SOHT. These data demonstrate a renal vasoconstrictor response to saline infusion in normotensive SOHT, which depends on prior sodium intake. This alteration in renal hemodynamics may represent an inherited abnormality related to the development of hypertension. 
Solitary polyclonal autonomous thyroid nodule: a rare cause of childhood hyperthyroidism. Solitary autonomous thyroid tumors are an unusual cause of hyperthyroidism, particularly in childhood. We describe the youngest individual so far reported with this condition, a 22 month child with a large hyperfunctioning thyroid nodule who became overtly hyperthyroid after iodinated contrast administration. The histology of the nodule was compatible with follicular cell hyperplasia. These tumors are often called toxic adenomas, although there is no solid evidence that they are true neoplasms. We examined the clonal composition of the child's thyroid tumor by X-chromosome inactivation analysis, taking advantage of a polymorphism in the X-chromosome gene phosphoglycerate kinase. The tumor consisted of an even mixture of cells containing activated paternal and maternal PGK alleles, indicating that the tumor was polyclonal. Furthermore, the nodule had no structural rearrangements or activating point mutations of ras oncogenes, which are found in up to 50% of solitary monoclonal follicular adenomas. Solitary hot nodules may at least in some cases be secondary to hyperplasia, and not to clonal expansion of an abnormal, mutated cell. This may also explain the relatively low frequency of malignant transformation observed in hyperfunctioning thyroid tumors. 
Temperature and total white blood cell count as indicators of bacteremia. This study was designed to quantify more precisely the accuracy of magnitude of rectal temperature and total white blood cell (WBC) count as indicators of bacteremia in children with an obvious focal bacterial infection. A total of 955 children, aged 3 to 36 months, who had rectal temperature greater than or equal to 39.0 degrees C and were seeking care at either of two urban pediatric emergency departments had blood drawn for culture; 885 had blood drawn for WBC count. Twenty-seven had bacteremia. Various combinations of temperature and WBC count were selected to construct receiver-operating-characteristic curves by plotting sensitivity vs false-positive rate (1 - specificity). The receiver-operating-characteristic curve of WBC count provided significantly better diagnostic information than the curve for temperature increments above 39.0 degrees C. Each increment of 0.5 degrees C led to large decrements in sensitivity and false-positive rates. At a WBC count cutoff of 10,000/mm3, the sensitivity was 92% while the false-positive rate was 57%. Using this cutoff point, the clinician could have avoided performing 368 of 955 blood cultures and missed only 2 of 26 children with bacteremia. Receiver-operating-characteristic curves combining WBC count and temperature increments above 39.0 degrees C provided no better diagnostic information than that of WBC count at a temperature cutoff of 39.0 degrees C. It is concluded that increments in temperature above 39.0 degrees C provided additional diagnostic specificity for bacteremia only at the expense of unacceptable decreases in sensitivity. Total WBC count provided better information. A WBC count cutoff of 10,000/mm3 increased specificity with minimal decrease in sensitivity. 
Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease. Fatal progression of pulmonary hypertension despite steroid-induced remission of interstitial pneumonitis. This report describes a 28-yr-old patient with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). She presented with pulmonary hypertension, hypoxemia, and interstitial pneumonitis. We report the discordance between the response of her hypoxemia and interstitial pneumonitis, which resolved with corticosteroid therapy, and her progressive pulmonary hypertension, which caused fatal right heart failure. This report emphasizes that the radiographic interstitial shadowing of PVOD may be caused by either (1) an inflammatory interstitial pneumonitis (which may be responsive to anti-inflammatory therapy) or (2) interstitial pulmonary edema, or both. 
Low-dose isradipine once daily effectively controls 24-h blood pressure in essential hypertension. In one study of 10 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, equivalent total daily doses (13 +/- 2 mg) of isradipine given twice daily and a modified-release formulation of isradipine (isradipine MR) given once daily were found to control adequately 24 h ambulatory blood pressure compared with placebo (P less than .001 for each v placebo). In another study of 22 patients with essential hypertension, 5 and 10 mg isradipine MR once daily has been shown to reduce the average 24 h blood pressure by 11 +/- 1/6 +/- 1 mm Hg (P less than .001) and 13 +/- 2/9 +/- 1 mm Hg (P less than .001), respectively, compared with placebo. There was no loss of efficacy with isradipine MR during the 24 h observation period with either dose. In conclusion, low-dose isradipine MR once daily is an effective first-line treatment in essential hypertension. 
Pediatric endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was performed 42 times in 38 patients aged 14 months to 20 yr at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh from 1982 to 1990. The adult side-viewing duodenoscope, Olympus JF1T, was used for all procedures. Intravenous sedation was used in 68% of the patients, whereas general anesthesia was employed in the remainder. Visualization of the appropriate ductal system was accomplished in 35 patients (92%). No therapeutic maneuvers were performed at endoscopy. Eleven of the 22 patients with ductal abnormalities underwent surgical treatment, based on the ERCP findings. The only complication encountered was mild pancreatitis in three patients (8%), all with a history of pancreatitis. We conclude that ERCP is a safe, useful procedure in the evaluation of children with pancreaticobiliary disorders, and in the identification of surgically correctable lesions in 29% of those patients. 
Venous emboli occurring caesarean section: the effect of patient position. The effect of position, horizontal versus 5 degrees reverse Trendelenburg's, on the incidence of venous emboli during Caesarean section was evaluated in 207 patients. Venous emboli were diagnosed using precordial ultrasonic Doppler monitoring. In the horizontal position, 44% (60 of 134) parturients had venous emboli compared with 1% (1 of 73) parturients in the 5 degrees reverse Trendelenburg's position (P less than 0.0001). Epidural anaesthesia was performed in 171 patients, and 36 patients had general anaesthesia. In the epidural group, pulse oximetric haemoglobin oxygen desaturation and complaints of chest pain and/or dyspnoea were associated with the venous emboli. Venous emboli, probably air, occur frequently during Caesarean section with the patient in the horizontal position. This occurrence was minimized by placing the patient in the 5 degrees reverse Trendelenburg's position. 
Recognizing early Parkinson's disease. Differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease should cover not only the classic disorder described by James Parkinson in 1817 (paralysis agitans) but also numerous other idiopathic and secondary disorders that have varying degrees of parkinsonian features. Because treatment options can vary greatly among mimicking disorders and differ from those effective for Parkinson's disease, a prompt, accurate diagnosis is essential. Physicians can distinguish between these often-overlapping disorders by differentiating primary from secondary parkinsonism and by classifying primary syndromes into disorders with prominent tremor and those without. 
Spontaneous haematomyelia: a necropsy study. Spontaneous haematomyelia (intramedullary spinal haematoma), is an uncommon event. Predisposing conditions have been reported including syringomyelia, pregnancy and delivery, angioma, spinal artery aneurysm, and haemophilia, but only rarely has a pathological evaluation been performed. Two such cases studied at necropsy are reported. In one case, the haematoma was restricted to the cervical spinal cord, while in the second case it extended from the medulla into the lowest thoracic cord segments. In both cases the haematomyelia was fatal. In the first case the clinical course was subacute, but in the other the course was more acute. Careful neuropathological examination showed no apparent cause for the haemorrhages. 
An in vivo model of experimental arterial stenosis, intimal damage, and periodic thrombosis. Coronary artery bypass grafts, angioplasty, and thrombolysis are beneficial procedures for patients with coronary artery disease. However, these procedures can fail by mechanisms related to interactions between platelets and the damaged arterial wall. An experimental model for studying some of the mechanisms of platelet interaction with endothelial- and medial-damaged stenosed arteries is described. Dogs or pigs are anesthetized, and the chest opened. The heart is exposed, the circumflex or left anterior descending coronary artery is dissected out, and an EMF or Doppler flow probe is placed on it. Distal to the flow probe, the artery is clamped with a vascular clamp to produce endothelial and/or medial injury. Then, an encircling plastic cylinder is placed around the outside of the injured artery, producing a "critical stenosis." Acute platelet thrombus formation begins to occur in the stenosed lumen, gradually increasing the amount of stenosis. This causes the coronary flow to decline and reach zero flow when the artery is completely occluded. Then, the thrombus is embolized into the distal circulation, and flow is restored to normal levels. This occurs repeatedly causing cyclic flow reductions (CFRs). These CFRs can be made larger and to occur more frequently by increasing in vivo platelet activity, by raising the plasma catecholamine levels, or by increasing the collagen exposed in the stenosed lumen by increased medial damage. If an effective dose of an antiplatelet agent is given, the CFRs will be decreased in size and frequency or abolished entirely. Aspirin and other agents abolish the CFRs in this model; however, CFRs can be renewed by infusions of catecholamines or platelet activating factor. Thus, the model may be useful for studying mechanisms that enhance or inhibit arterial thrombosis in stenosed arteries with endothelial and medial injury. 
Characterization of recombinant factor VIII and a recombinant factor VIII deletion mutant using a rabbit immunogenicity model system. The use of factor VIII prepared genetically engineered cell lines (rFVIII) may avoid some of the problems inherently associated with administering plasma-derived factor VIII (pdFVIII) concentrates to hemophilia A patients. Although rFVIII may represent an improvement over traditional therapeutics, the chance exists that protein production in cell culture may result in the presence of novel epitopes that may enhance the formation of inhibitor antibodies capable of neutralizing either rFVIII or pdFVIII. To assess the differences between rFVIII and its plasma-derived homologue, a rabbit immunogenicity model system was developed. Antibodies raised to rFVIII in rabbits were tested for the presence of antibodies capable of binding rFVIII but not pdFVIII, the presence of which would suggest that novel epitope(s) were present. This analysis was performed using a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, as well as immunoadsorption. For either technique, rFVIII-specific antibodies were not detected, indicating that differences between rFVIII and pdFVIII were not found. When a rFVIII B-region deletion mutant was similarly tested, antibodies specific for this protein were found. These specific antibodies appeared to bind in the vicinity of the deletion site and their binding was not affected by carbohydrate removal. These results indicate that the rabbit immunogenicity model system is sensitive to alterations in the factor VIII molecule and suggest that full-length rFVIII will not be any more immunogenic in human patients than pdFVIII. 
Thrombin and parathyroid hormone mobilize intracellular calcium in rat osteosarcoma cells by distinct pathways. The mechanisms by which PTH and thrombin mobilize intracellular Ca2+ (Cai2+) were examined in UMR 106-H5 rat osteosarcoma cells. Bovine PTH-(1-34) (24 pM to 240 nM) produced a dose-dependent increase in Cai2+ (EC50, 3 nM), which returned to baseline within 75 sec. Human alpha-thrombin produced an increase in Cai2+ (ECmax, 10 U/ml) which was similar to that of PTH with respect to both magnitude and time course. Chelation of extracellular calcium with 5.0 mM EGTA did not alter the Cai2+ response to either PTH or thrombin. When added together at maximally effective concentrations, PTH and thrombin produced additive effects on Cai2+ in the presence and absence of EGTA. The additive effects of PTH and thrombin on Cai2+ were confirmed at the single cell level, using laser-based image analysis. Bradykinin (1 microM) produced a significant increase in Cai2+ in UMR 106-H5 cells which was of lesser magnitude than the peak 2- to 3-fold increase elicited by PTH or thrombin. Preexposure of cells to 10 U/ml thrombin for 2 min abolished the Cai2+ response to bradykinin, whereas preexposure to 240 nM PTH had no effect on the Cai2+ response to bradykinin. Thrombin elicited a rapid increase in the accumulation of 3H-labeled inositol phosphates (IP2 and IP3) in UMR 106-H5 cells, with increases in [3H]1,4,5-IP3 detectable as early as 15 sec after the addition of thrombin. Bradykinin increased [3H]IP production to a lesser extent than thrombin, whereas PTH neither increased [3H]IP accumulation nor potentiated the [3H]IP response to thrombin. The results suggest that thrombin and bradykinin mobilize Cai2+ from a shared IP3-responsive calcium pool, whereas PTH may use signals in addition to 1,4,5-IP3 to mobilize calcium from a distinct cellular calcium pool. Alternatively, specific calcium compartmentalization exists, and there is differential coupling of these agonists to the 1,4,5-IP3/Cai2+ pathway. 
Disturbed secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide in patients with persistent atrial standstill: endocrinologic silence. Persistent atrial standstill is a very rare pathophysiologic condition whose diagnosis is established when both electrical and mechanical silence of the atria are confirmed. To test the hypothesis that secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide is disturbed in patients with persistent atrial standstill, the response of atrial natriuretic peptide secretion and other neurohormonal factors during exercise was investigated in three patients with a rate-responsive ventricular demand (VVI) pacemaker implanted for confirmed persistent atrial standstill. The results were compared with those observed in eight normal subjects and patients with a rate-responsive VVI (Group A) or atrial demand (AAI) (Group B) pacemaker implanted for confirmed sick sinus syndrome. Patients in Group A displayed significant elevation of alpha-human atrial natriuretic peptide secretion both before and during exercise (122.5 +/- 14.8 and 207.5 +/- 8.3 pg/ml, respectively) compared with those in Group B (55 +/- 14.1 and 116.4 +/- 51.5 pg/ml, respectively) and the normal subjects (18.9 +/- 9.8 and 30.8 +/- 19.2 pg/ml, respectively). This indicated development of a nonphysiologic increase in atrial volume or pressure overload, or both, in rate-responsive VVI pacing because of lack of atrioventricular synchrony. However, patients with persistent atrial standstill had undetectable (less than 10 pg/ml) or almost undetectable secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide as well as lower levels of cyclic guanosine monophosphate in the circulation both before and during exercise. Changes in plasma catecholamines during exercise were similar in patients with persistent atrial standstill compared with the other groups. This study indicates that "endocrinologic silence" accompanies electrical and mechanical silence of the atria, which may constitute a third diagnostic clue to persistent atrial standstill. 
Kinetics of Borrelia burgdorferi dissemination and evolution of disease after intradermal inoculation of mice. Borrelia burgdorferi dissemination to selected target organs was examined on days 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 15, 21, and 30 after intradermal inoculation of 4-week-old C3H mice. Infection was determined by culture (blood, spleen, kidney, ear punch); polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for outer surface protein A (OSP A) DNA (ear punch); histology and spirochete histochemistry (spleen, kidney, skin, heart, joints); and OSP A DNA in situ hybridization (joints, heart). Blood or spleen of most mice were culture positive by day 3 and ear punch by day 10. Polymerase chain reaction performed on ear punches was also positive by day 10. Inflammation of joints and tendons began on days 4 through 7 and heart on days 7 through 10, which coincided with colonization of tissues with spirochetes. Spirochetes were multifocal in distribution, with a predilection for collagenous connective tissue of joints, heart, arteries, nerves, muscle, skin, and other tissues. Relative numbers of spirochetes peaked at 15 days, then decreased by 21 days. Gamma M immunoglobulin (IgM) antibody was detectable on immunoblots as early as day 4, with subsequent declining reactivity, and IgG antibody was detectable by day 7, with expanding reactivity to multiple antigens through day 30. 
Efficacy and toxicity of thromboxane synthetase inhibitor for cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. The efficacy and possible side effects of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthetase inhibitor in the treatment of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were assessed for 24 patients who presented with grades I to IV of the Hunt and Hess classification. All patients underwent aneurysmal clipping within 48 hours after SAH. Postoperatively, TXA2 synthetase inhibitor, Cataclot [sodium (E)-3-[p-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)phenyl]-2-propenoate] was administered to 13 patients by continuous drip infusion at a dose of 1 microgram/kg/min for 8 to 14 days (group A). The remaining 11 patients did not receive this drug (group B). Of the 13 patients in group A, seven patients (54%) showed no symptomatic vasospasm after SAH. Four patients (31%) developed a transient deterioration of consciousness and/or motor disturbance. Three of these patients fully recovered, while one of them showed a mild neurological deficit on discharge. One patient (8%) developed permanent dysphasia and hemiparesis as a result of ischemic brain damage due to vasospasm. One patient (8%) died of the side effect. On the other hand, of the 11 patients in group B, only three (27%) showed no symptomatic vasospasm. One (9%) patient presented a transient neurological deficit but fully recovered upon discharge. Four patients (36%) showed permanent neurological deficits, although they all could lead an independent life after discharge. The three remaining patients developed a severe disturbance of consciousness caused by ischemia due to vasospasm, and two of them died within 1 month after the onset of SAH. In the group treated with Cataclot, two patients developed an epidural hematoma late during the administration of the drug. Of these two, one patient died of increased intracranial pressure that was accelerated by the complication. These results indicate that TXA2 synthetase inhibitor is effective in not only decreasing the occurrence of symptomatic vasospasm but also reducing the neurological deterioration due to vasospasm after SAH. However, this drug has a hazardous side effect in that it may promote a tendency to bleed, which caused death in one of our patients. 
Constrictive pericarditis masquerading as Budd-Chiari syndrome. Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) and constrictive pericarditis (CP) share many common clinical features. Over the last year we encountered three patients in whom CP clinically mimicked BCS. Two of the three did not even have raised jugular venous pressure. One patient with severe jaundice and hepatic coma ultimately died. Liver biopsy features were not discriminating. The final diagnosis of CP was established by echocardiography, chest computed tomography (CT), or cardiac catheterization. We conclude that in all patients with apparent BCS and atypical features, a noninvasive test like echocardiography or chest CT should be done to rule out treatable illness like CP before embarking on such invasive procedures as liver biopsy for diagnosis. 
Calcium and carcinogenesis of the mammary gland. Effects of dietary calcium on mammary carcinogenesis in rats were investigated because of evidence that calcium counteracts the promotion of colon cancer by dietary fat and because experimental diets for rats normally contain higher amounts of calcium and vitamin D than do human diets. Our earlier experiments indicated that yields of tumors induced in young, Sprague-Dawley rats by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)-anthracene (DMBA) were higher when dietary calcium, phosphate, and vitamin D were decreased. Results of an experiment in which dietary amounts of calcium, phosphate, and vitamin D were varied independently suggested that phosphate and vitamin D have interactive effects with calcium. Another experiment in which dietary vitamin D alone was varied provided evidence that higher amounts inhibited tumorigenesis in the presence of low amounts of calcium and phosphate but the results with a high-calcium and -phosphate diet were inconclusive. The findings suggest that low amounts of dietary calcium and vitamin D and high amounts of phosphate increase susceptibility to DMBA-induced mammary neoplasia. 
Human beta-galactosidase gene mutations in GM1-gangliosidosis: a common mutation among Japanese adult/chronic cases. Molecular analysis of the human beta-galactosidase gene revealed six different mutations in 10 of 11 Japanese GM1-gangliosidosis patients. They were the only abnormalities in each allele examined in this study. A 165-nucleotide duplication (positions 1103-1267) was found in two infantile patients, producing an abnormally large mRNA; one patient was probably a homozygote, and the other was a heterozygote of this mutation. The other two infantile patients had different mutations; a 123 Gly(GGG)----Arg(AGG) mutation in one patient and a 316 Tyr(TAT)----Cys(TGT) mutation in the other. A 201 Arg(CGC)----Cys(TGC) mutation, eliminating a BspMI site, was detected in a late-infantile/juvenile patient; the restriction-site analysis of amplified genomic DNA confirmed his heterozygosity for this mutation. A 51 Ile(ATC)----Thr(ACC) mutation was found in all five adult/chronic patients examined in this study. It created a SauI site, and restriction-site analysis confirmed that four patients were homozygous mutants. The other was a compound heterozygote for this mutation and another 457 Arg(CGA)----Gln(CAA) mutation. These mutant genes expressed markedly decreased or completely deficient enzyme activities in beta-galactosidase-deficient human fibroblasts transformed by adenovirus-SV40 recombinants. We conclude that gene mutations are heterogeneous in GM1-gangliosidosis but that the 51 Ile(ATC)----Thr(ACC) mutation is common among the Japanese adult/chronic cases. Genotype-phenotype correlations in GM1-gangliosidosis are briefly discussed. 
Short- and long-term psychological status following stroke. Short form MMPI results. Indices of self-reported depression and psychological adjustment after stroke were evaluated using a short form of the MMPI. Patients with poststroke periods of 2 to 6 and 7 to 24 months were selected, and indices of general intellectual functioning and lesion size/location were obtained. Despite similar levels of intellectual functioning and lesion parameters, the longer duration group showed significantly higher depression scores and significant (T greater than 70) elevations on several other clinical scales of the MMPI. In contrast, the mean overall profile of the short-duration group was roughly within normal limits. These findings have implications for the clinical assessment and treatment of stroke patients and long-term psychological adjustment after stroke. 
Perioperative stroke. Part I: General surgery, carotid artery disease, and carotid endarterectomy. Although stroke, defined as a focal neurological deficit lasting more than 24 hr, is uncommon in the perioperative period, its associated mortality and long-term disability are high. No large-scale data are available to identify the importance of recognized risk factors for stroke in the perioperative period. A review of the literature shows that the incidence and mechanism of its occurrence are influenced by the presence of cardiovascular disease and the type of surgery. The most common cause of perioperative stroke is embolism. In non-cardiac surgery, the incidence of perioperative stroke is higher among the elderly. Properly administered, controlled hypotension is associated with minimal risk of stroke. Cerebral vasospasm may be the cause of focal cerebral ischaemia in eclamptic patients, and the aggressive treatment of hypertension may exacerbate the neurological damage. The risk of stroke associated with carotid endarterectomy is closely related to the preoperative neurological presentation, and the experience of the surgical/anaesthetic team. Symptomatic cerebrovascular disease, acute stroke, asymptomatic carotid lesions, preoperative assessment of risk, local and general anaesthesia, cerebral protection and monitoring during carotid endarterectomy are discussed with reference to reducing the risk of perioperative stroke. Adequate monitoring and protection have minimized the risk of ischaemia from carotid clamping, and the major mechanism of stroke is embolization. 
Protein status and metabolic expenditure determine the response to intravenous nutrition--a new classification of surgical malnutrition. To determine whether nutritional and metabolic factors affect the response to intravenous nutrition (IVN) 146 surgical patients were classified according to their protein and metabolic status using direct measurements of body protein and metabolic expenditure. The patients were grouped into four categories: category I, moderate to severe protein depletion without raised metabolic expenditure; category II, moderate to severe protein depletion with raised metabolic expenditure; category III, mild protein depletion without raised metabolic expenditure; and category IV, mild protein depletion with raised metabolic expenditure. After 2 weeks of IVN patients in category I gained a mean(s.e.m.) of 0.43(0.06) kg of body protein (P less than 0.001) and had significant rises in both plasma transferrin and prealbumin (P less than 0.05); patients in category II gained 0.30(0.11) kg of protein (P less than 0.005) and also had significant rises in transferrin and prealbumin (P less than 0.05). Patients in category III lost 0.24(0.11) kg protein (P less than 0.05) and had no changes in either transferrin or prealbumin and patients in category IV lost 0.51(0.13) kg of body protein (P less than 0.001) and although there was a significant rise in plasma prealbumin there was no significant change in plasma transferrin. When postoperative patients were examined separately, they did not differ significantly from preoperative patients except in category I, where their protein gain was only 0.19(0.10) kg, an amount not significantly different from that gained by patients in category II. In each of the four categories described, the changes in total body protein occurring with 2 weeks of IVN were determined by the relative effects of two competing processes; protein depletion and raised metabolic expenditure. With moderate to severe protein depletion (approximately 30 per cent depletion of body protein stores) there was a marked tendency to gain protein with IVN. When the patient had a raised metabolic expenditure or was postoperative this tendency of depleted patients to gain protein was still present but it was less. With only mild protein depletion (approximately 10 per cent depletion) increases in metabolic expenditure made it difficult, if not impossible, to prevent continuing protein loss in spite of aggressive nutritional support. The patient categories we have described determine the response to IVN and form the basis of a new clinical classification of surgical malnutrition. 
Malignancy and chronic wounds: Marjolin's ulcer. Malignancy in chronic wounds is not uncommon and has been reported as occurring in chronic scars of diverse causes. We report an unusual case of bilateral thermal injuries of the lower extremities that 40 years later presented as very large, painful, fungating wounds of both lower legs. After histologic confirmation of squamous cell carcinoma, eradication of the disease required amputations of both the lower extremities and reconstructive procedures. In addition, we discuss current theories regarding the mechanism of malignant degeneration in chronic wounds and evaluate treatment on the basis of information currently available in the literature. 
Endoscopic sphincterotomy: the whole truth. An 8 year experience of 602 patients (median age 76 years) referred for endoscopic management of common bile stones is reported. No patient referred for treatment has been excluded. A diagnostic cholangiogram was achieved in 94 per cent and sphincterotomy was accomplished in 91.5 per cent. The bile ducts were demonstrated to be completely cleared of stones in 491 (81.6 per cent) of 602 patients. A mean number of 1.9 endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography examinations per patient were necessary to achieve this result. Complications of endoscopic sphincterotomy, which were strictly defined, occurred in 10.5 per cent of patients although five patients had two complications (total complication rate 11.3 per cent). The 30-day mortality rate was 2.2 per cent, seven of 13 deaths (1.2 per cent) occurring as a direct result of sphincterotomy. There have been statistically significant improvements in bile duct clearance and complication rates with increasing experience of endoscopists. 
Prolonged paralysis after treatment with neuromuscular junction blocking agents. OBJECTIVES: Previous reports have described prolonged paralysis after treatment with neuromuscular junction blocking agents in critically ill patients. The purpose of this study was to further describe a group of patients who developed prolonged weakness after treatment with these agents. DESIGN: Clinical information, electrodiagnostic and muscle pathology results are described in this group of patients. Clinical information includes diagnoses, dosage of neuromuscular junction blocker, other medications affecting the neuromuscular system, and neuromuscular examination and clinical course. SETTING: All patients were seen in the ICUs of three local hospitals. PATIENTS: Included were critically ill patients with a variety of diagnoses, all of whom developed severe weakness after discontinuation of neuromuscular junction blocking agents. INTERVENTIONS: Electrodiagnostic studies and muscle biopsies were performed on several of the patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients had pronounced weakness without sensory loss. Electrodiagnostic and muscle pathology findings were consistent with failed neuromuscular transmission. Although many patients had disorders or were taking medications that can injure the neuromuscular system, no disorder or medication was common to all. Recovery of strength often took several months and most patients were slow to wean from mechanical ventilator support. CONCLUSIONS: Although alternative explanations cannot be excluded with certainty, the use of neuromuscular junction blocking agents may lead to neurogenic atrophy and care must be taken when using them. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the spleen. Morphological, radiological, immunophenotypic, and ultrastructural features. A case of inflammatory pseudotumor of the spleen is described. Its rapid enlargement, demonstrable by ultrasound studies and computed tomographic scan, its gross appearance, and some of its histologic features suggested malignant lymphoma. However, a characteristic circumferential zonal pattern and polytypic immunophenotype helped to establish the correct diagnosis. In retrospect, the zonal pattern was also identified radiologically. 
Regulation of the oncodevelopmental expression of type 1 chain ABH and Lewis(b) blood group antigens in human colon by alpha-2-L-fucosylation. Blood group antigen expression in the distal human colon is related to the development of the organ and is modified by malignant transformation. To elucidate the biochemical basis for these changes, we have (a) analysed the activity of glycosyltransferases coded for by the H, Se, Le, X, and A genes, in tissue biopsy specimens from normal and malignant proximal and distal human colon; (b) characterised the glycosphingolipids expressed in the various regions of normal and malignant colon by immunostaining of high performance thin layer chromatography plates; and (c) located the antigens on tissue sections from the same subjects by immunohistochemistry. In both secretors and non-secretors we found a significantly higher activity of alpha-2-L-fucosyltransferases in carcinomatous rectal tissue than in tissue from normal subjects, whereas the other transferase activities studied showed no significant differences. The acceptor substrate specificity suggested that both the Se and the H gene dependent alpha-2-L-fucosyltransferases are increased in carcinomas. In non-malignant tissue the only enzyme which showed appreciably higher activity in caecum than in rectum was alpha-2-L-fucosyltransferase. Immunochemistry and immunohistochemistry showed alpha-2-L-fucosylated structures in normal caecum from secretors and in tumour tissue from both secretors and non-secretors. We conclude that the alpha-2-L-fucosyltransferases control the expression of ABH, and Lewis(b) structures in normal and malignant colon. 
Follow-up study of unruptured aneurysms arising from the C3 and C4 segments of the internal carotid artery. A follow-up study of unruptured aneurysms arising from the C3 and C4 segments of the internal carotid artery was performed. During the 10-year period from 1979 to 1989, there were 22 patients with 24 aneurysms arising from the C3 or C4 segment of the internal carotid artery. All 24 aneurysms were unruptured. They represented 3% of all intracranial aneurysms and 11% of all internal carotid artery aneurysms diagnosed at the hospital during the 10-year period. Eighteen patients were women and 4 were men. Their ages ranged from 34 to 82 years (mean 63.3 years). Of the 22 patients, 12 (55%) had multiple aneurysms. A follow-up study without treatment was made in 15 of the 22 patients who had a total of 16 unruptured aneurysms arising from the C3 or C4 segment of the internal carotid artery. This study excluded 7 of the 22 patients with a total of eight aneurysms because of operation or death soon after diagnosis. The average maximal dimension of the 16 aneurysms was 5 mm, with a range of 2-17 mm. Follow-up periods varied from 11 months to 10.5 years, with an average of 4.7 years. During this period, none of the 16 aneurysms ruptured, and they remained asymptomatic, except for one aneurysm that had been discovered as a result of the cavernous sinus syndrome. Some surgeons are now attempting direct operations on intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms, even if the aneurysms are unruptured and relatively small. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysms complicated by spontaneous iliocaval or duodenal fistulae. Seven hundred and twenty one abdominal aortic aneurysms were treated between 1960 and 1985. Twenty one of these (2.9%) were complicated by the development of a spontaneous primary fistula, 16 (2.2%) into the vena cava or iliac veins and 5 (0.7%) into the duodenum. A correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only four instances, two aorto-caval and two aorto-duodenal fistulae. Hospital mortality was 44% for aorto-caval and 60% for aorto-duodenal fistulae. Despite the lack of a precise preoperative diagnosis in the majority of cases, the prognosis for aorto-caval fistula remained comparable to that for patients undergoing emergency surgery for uncomplicated ruptured aortic aneurysms. The mortality of spontaneous aorto-duodenal fistulae was appreciably higher and the aneurysmal contents of 4 out of these 5 cases had positive bacterial cultures. 
A case of intracerebral air embolism secondary to the insertion of a Hickman line. Complications following the insertion of intravenous catheters are relatively uncommon. We report a potentially serious, hitherto unrecognized complication of Hickman line insertion, and discuss the condition. 
Isolation and direct characterization of resident microglial cells from the normal and inflamed central nervous system. In addition to the major population of infiltrating leukocytes recovered from inflamed rat central nervous system (CNS), all of which expressed high levels of leukocyte common antigen CD45, many cells were coisolated that were MRC OX42+ (complement receptor 3/CD11b) but expressed low-to-moderate levels of CD45 and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. Most cells from normal CNS, in contrast, lay within this latter, CD45low population. From previous in situ immunohistochemical studies, the fortuitously isolated CD45low cells were probably resident (ramified) microglia. Using irradiation chimeras, we show that resident microglia respond to inflammation by upregulating CD45, CD4, and MHC class I molecules with a minority of these cells increasing their expression of MHC class II molecules. A 3- to 4-fold increase in the number of microglia isolated from inflamed CNS provided indirect evidence that the cells had proliferated. In normal CNS, a very small population of blood-derived CD45high-expressing cells are present; most MHC class II expression is associated with these few cells and not with the resident microglia. 
Grading of human urothelial carcinoma based on nuclear atypia and mitotic frequency. I. Histological description. The World Health Organization (WHO) grade II bladder tumors constitute a clinically and histologically heterogeneous group due to imprecise histological definitions. In an attempt to improve this problem 124 transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder were histologically reviewed using a modified Bergkvist system. The grade II tumors were divided into 2 groups, grades IIa and IIb, mainly with reference to the degree of nuclear atypia and number of mitoses. Using definitions possible to express by numerical means, the separation was easy and reproducible. Due to great histological resemblance between certain close grades we propose a new grading system with 3 grades combining I and IIa (grade A), IIb and III (grade B), and a third group (grade C) for the anaplastic tumors. 
Typical and atypical bronchopulmonary carcinoids. A clinicopathologic and flow cytometric study. The clinicopathologic and flow cytometric characteristics of 47 bronchopulmonary carcinoids were assessed, relative to patient survival. Aneuploidy was associated more often with tumor size of greater than or equal to 3.0 cm (P less than 0.004) and lymph node (P less than 0.013) or vascular involvement (P less than 0.004). Also, an aneuploid DNA content was seen significantly more often in histologically atypical (79%) than in typical carcinoid neoplasms (18%) (P less than 0.0001). Cox proportional hazard model analysis revealed that the histologic category (typical vs. atypical) and ploidy pattern were important prognostic indicators. Size of the primary tumor and the presence of vascular involvement were also significant predictors of outcome. Histologically atypical carcinoids with diploid DNA content pursued a less aggressive course than did their aneuploid counterparts. 
Down's syndrome and mixed acute leukemia in infants. The routine use of panels of monoclonal antibodies has been complementary to the French-American-British (FAB) leukemia classification, and has unmasked the occurrence of mixed acute leukemia (myeloid-lymphoid). It is widely accepted that children with Down's syndrome (DS) have a high incidence of acute leukemia. There is an extensive body of literature emphasizing the cytogenetic findings in these children. However, information as to the immunophenotype is often limited to the lymphoid surface determinants. The authors report two children with DS whose leukemic blasts were studied with a panel of 17 monoclonal antibodies (myeloid, lymphoid, and megakaryocytic) by flow cytometric examination and were classified as biphenotypic acute leukemia. The blast population coexpressed myeloid and T-cell surface markers. The lymphoid origin was ruled out on the basis of negative terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase and molecular analysis demonstrating germline configuration for the JH and beta TCR genes. 
The impact of breast-conserving treatment and mastectomy on the quality of life of early-stage breast cancer patients: a review. In recent years, doubt has been shed on the necessity of mastectomy for women with early-stage breast cancer. Apart from purely medical studies comparing (radical) mastectomy to less intruding surgical treatment, a number of studies (N = 18) have been published investigating the impact of breast-conserving treatment versus mastectomy on quality of life. We review these studies with respect to medical issues (treatment modality, stage of disease), methodologic issues (design, measurement moment, sample size), and results (psychologic discomfort, changes in life patterns, fears and concerns). It is concluded that there is no solid proof of a better psychologic adjustment after breast-conserving treatment and that there are no substantial differences between the different treatment modalities in changes of life patterns and fears and concerns. However, the results with respect to body image and sexual functioning favor the use of breast-conserving treatment. 
Termination of central sleep apnea episodes by upper airway stimulation using intermittent positive pressure ventilation. A 52-year-old man presented with pure central sleep apnea syndrome that failed to respond to nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP) therapy. Intermittent positive pressure stimulation via a nasal mask was instituted using a portable positive pressure ventilator. We found marked reduction in the respiratory disturbance index, number of desaturations, and the number of arousals with this mode of therapy. 
Prevalence of obesity in a Native Hawaiian population. Mortality data indicate that Native Hawaiians have higher death rates when compared with the US all-races population, and full-blooded Native Hawaiians are likely to have the highest mortality rates from heart disease in the nation. However, to date no comprehensive population-based study of risk factors in Native Hawaiians has been conducted. In this study of 257 Native Hawaiian adults, 62.8% of the women and 65.5% of the men were greater than or equal to 20% overweight by the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II) standards. Thirty-four percent of the women and 47% of the men were severely overweight. The mean body mass index (BMI, in kg/m2) was 30.3 in women and 30.9 in men. Women aged 45-54 y were heaviest with a mean BMI of 31.6. Of the men aged 25-34 y, 79.2% were overweight. The mean waist-to-hip ratio was 0.85 for women and 0.95 for men in this sample. 
Mitomycin C-loaded microcapsules in the treatment of colorectal liver metastases. Pharmacokinetics of regionally administered particulate chemotherapy. Microencapsulated mitomycin C has been used for the treatment of intrahepatic tumors in Japan, but there have been no reports of its use in western countries. In this study, the pharmacokinetic profile of intrahepatic arterial mitomycin C microcapsules is reported. Regional mitomycin C was administered to six patients, both in the microencapsulated form and in solution. The clearance (140 +/- 31 1/hour, mean +/- SD) and half-life of drug in plasma (0.39 +/- 0.03 hours), and volume distribution (246 +/- 23 1) were significantly higher, and peak drug concentrations (80 +/- 75 ng/ml) significantly lower with the microencapsulated preparation than with the free drug (clearance, 46 +/- 8 1/hour; half-life, 0.11 +/- 0.02 hours; volume distribution, 33 +/- 4; peak drug concentration, 812 +/- 423 ng/ml), on Student's t testing (P less than 0.05). The results show that very little systemic exposure is associated with the microencapsulated form of mitomycin C. Dose escalation should be feasible without increasing systemic toxicity. 
Expression of glutathione S-transferase-pi messenger RNA in human esophageal cancers. The expression of human glutathione S-transferase-pi (GST-pi) in resected primary esophageal tumors and in matching normal esophageal mucosa from 25 patients undergoing radical surgery was measured by RNA blot hybridization. The RNA transcript levels of GST-pi in the tumor tissues were higher than those in normal tissues in 20 of 25 cases (80%). The mean GST-pi mRNA value in the tumor tissues (n = 25) was significantly (P less than 0.01) elevated as compared with that in background mucosa (n = 29), and in ten of 25 tumors (40%) the level of GST-pi mRNA exceeded the mean normal tissue value by two standard deviations (normal mean value + 2 X SD). The results obtained from the current experiment thus suggests that GST-pi might be a useful marker for human esophageal cancer. No correlation between GST-pi mRNA level and clinical stage or histologic characteristics was apparent. 
Adhesion formation after laparoscopic surgery in tubal pregnancy: a randomized trial versus laparotomy. OBJECTIVE: Women with ectopic pregnancy (EP) who have been operated on by laparoscopy are thought to have improved subsequent fertility, probably because of less adhesion formation. We aimed to evaluate the adhesion formation after laparoscopy as compared with laparotomy in a randomized trial. DESIGN: One hundred five patients with tubal pregnancy were stratified with regard to age and risk factors and randomized to surgery by laparoscopy or laparotomy. To evaluate adhesion formation and tubal status, 73 patients with strong desire of pregnancy underwent a second-look laparoscopy. The adhesion status at the ipsilateral and contralateral side at primary surgery was compared with the status at second-look laparoscopy. RESULTS: Patients operated on by laparotomy developed significantly more adhesions at the operated side than patients operated on by laparoscopy (P less than 0.001). Substantially more patients in the laparotomy group underwent adhesiolysis at second-look laparoscopy than did patients in the laparoscopy group. Tubal patency did not differ between the groups. CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic treatment of EP results in less impairment of the pelvic status compared with conventional conservative surgery. 
Expression of intrahepatic hepatitis D viral antigen in chronic hepatitis D virus infection. To elucidate the biological importance of intrahepatic hepatitis D virus antigen, its expression was correlated with biochemical and histological inflammatory activity in 98 biopsy specimens from 68 patients seropositive for total antibody to the virus. Seventy five specimens were positive for intrahepatic nuclear antigen for HDV antigen accompanied by cytoplasmic HDV antigen in only one biopsy specimen. This group had significantly higher serum transaminase activities and inflammatory activity than the remaining cases that were negative for HDV antigen. Among the group positive for HDV antigen, there was no correlation between the proportion of hepatocytes containing HDV antigen and either serum transaminase activity or histological inflammatory indices. In 22 HDV antigen positive patients who had follow up biopsy specimens taken at a median of two years, the proportion with cirrhosis increased from 36% to 73%. Serum transaminase activities remained the same during this period, but the proportion of HDV antigen positive cells dropped. Follow up of 51 patients showed that 21 died or underwent liver transplantation within three years. The absence of an association between intrahepatic HDV antigen expression and progression of histological liver damage does not support the view that HDV is directly cytopathic to hepatocytes. Immune mediated mechanisms may have a role in the pathogenesis of chronic liver disease related to HDV infection. 
Patterns of mortality in sickle cell disease in the United Kingdom. Eighteen of 384 patients entered on the Brent sickle cell disease register died between 1974 and 1989, a mortality of one per 128 years of follow up. Two children died from acute splenic sequestration and a third died from fulminant pneumococcal septicaemia: none was taking prophylactic penicillin. Acute chest syndrome was the cause of death in eight young adults and one child. Three deaths occurred after surgery. Cerebrovascular accidents contributed to the cause of death in three cases and there were two sudden unexplained deaths. Ten of the deaths occurred at home or within 24 hours of admission to hospital. Post mortem examinations were made in 14 cases, but the histological appearances of acute chest syndrome were often not recognised. In most cases for whom information was available, the cause of death (chest syndrome, pneumococcal sepsis, postoperative complications) could have been prevented. 
Evidence of c-myc gene abnormalities in mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma of young adult age. Six cases of mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (MLCL) with sclerosis were analyzed for the presence and patterns of c-myc and bcl-2 loci rearrangements, and for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus DNA sequences by Southern blot hybridization, c-myc gene alterations were found in three of six cases. Two cases showed the presence of mutations or small rearrangements at the 3' end of the first exon. The c-myc gene abnormalities found in these two cases are similar to those observed in the translocation 8;14 of the endemic Burkitt's lymphomas or in its variants t(2;8) and t(8;22). A third case showed a major rearrangement of c-myc gene, with truncation within its first intron, similar to those observed in sporadic Burkitt's and in acquired immunodeficiency-associated lymphomas. None of the cases displayed bcl-2 gene rearrangements or contained viral sequences. Our data suggest a possible role for a translocation-mediated c-myc activation in the pathogenesis of MLCL. Conversely, bcl-2 gene and Epstein-Barr virus do not appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of these peculiar lymphomas. The association between c-myc structural modifications and MLCL also seems to be of relevance in light of the peculiar tendency of this tumor to involve unusual extranodal site (eg, kidney), reminiscent of the spreading attitude of Burkitt's limphomas. 
Mortality among workers exposed to ethylene oxide. BACKGROUND. Ethylene oxide is a sterilant gas that causes leukemia and other cancers in animals. Studies in Sweden have shown an excess of leukemia and stomach cancer in humans exposed to ethylene oxide, but other studies have generally failed to confirm these findings. METHODS. We conducted a study of mortality in 18,254 U.S. workers exposed to ethylene oxide at 14 plants producing sterilized medical supplies and spices. The subjects averaged 4.9 years of exposure to the gas and 16 years of follow-up. The exposure levels in recent years averaged 4.3 ppm (eight-hour time-weighted adjusted exposure) for sterilizer operators and 2.0 ppm for other workers. The levels in earlier years are likely to have been several times higher. Mortality in this cohort was compared with that in the general U.S. population. RESULTS. Overall there was no significant increase in mortality from any cause in the study cohort. The standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were 0.97 for leukemia (95 percent confidence interval, 0.52 to 1.67; 13 deaths observed), 1.06 for all hematopoietic cancers (95 percent confidence interval, 0.75 to 1.47; 36 deaths), and 0.94 for stomach cancer (95 percent confidence interval, 0.45 to 1.70; 11 deaths). Analyses according to job category and according to the duration of exposure showed no excess in cancers, as compared with the rate in the general population, but there was a significant trend toward increased mortality with increasing lengths of time since the first exposure for all hematopoietic cancers. The rate of death from hematopoietic cancer (especially non-Hodgkin's lymphoma) was significantly increased among men (SMR, 1.55; 27 deaths). Mortality from leukemia in recent years (1985 through 1987) was significantly increased among men (SMR, 3.45; 5 deaths). CONCLUSIONS. For the entire cohort, there was no increase in mortality from hematopoietic cancer. There was a slight but significant increase among men, however. Among men and women combined, there was a trend toward an increased risk of death from hematopoietic cancer with increasing lengths of time since the first exposure to ethylene oxide. 
Propranolol ameliorates the development of portal-systemic shunting in a chronic murine schistosomiasis model of portal hypertension. We investigated the role of early portal hypotensive pharmacotherapy in preventing the development of portal-systemic shunting in a portal hypertensive model of chronic murine schistosomiasis induced by infecting C3H mice with 60 cercariae of Schistosoma mansoni. Propranolol was administered in drinking water to 20 animals for a period of 6 wk at a dose of 10 mg.kg-1d-1, starting at 5 wk of schistosomal infection. 32 age-matched mice with chronic schistosomal infection served as controls. All animals were studied 11 wk after the infection. Compared with controls the portal pressure (10.8 +/- 0.40 mmHg) was significantly lower (P less than 0.001) in the propranolol-treated animals (7.9 +/- 0.80 mmHg). Portal-systemic shunting was decreased by 79%, from 12.2 +/- 3.34% in controls to 2.5 +/- 0.99% in the propranolol group (P less than 0.05). Portal venous inflow was reduced by 38% in the propranolol treated animals (2.50 +/- 0.73 ml/min; n = 6) compared with controls (4.00 +/- 0.34 ml/min; n = 8; P less than 0.05). The worm burden, the granulomatous reaction, the collagen content of the liver, and the serum bile acid levels were not significantly different between the two groups of animals. These results demonstrate that in chronic liver disease induced by schistosomiasis, the development of portal-systemic shunting can be decreased or prevented by the reduction of flow and pressure in the portal system. 
Arrhythmogenic effects of graded coronary blood flow reductions superimposed on prior myocardial infarction in dogs. BACKGROUND. We studied arrhythmogenesis and its underlying pathophysiology during graded reductions of coronary blood flow, superimposed on prior myocardial infarction to test the hypothesis that spontaneous ventricular fibrillation and induced ventricular tachycardia are dependent on different patterns of coronary flow reduction in hearts with prior myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. In 10 sham-operated dogs (control group) and 24 dogs with 3-week-old experimental apical myocardial infarction, the left circumflex coronary artery was constricted to produce four grades of flow reduction: 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%. Among the sham-operated control animals, only one of 10 (10%) developed spontaneous ventricular fibrillation and only two of nine (22%) were inducible into sustained ventricular tachycardia during 100% circumflex coronary artery flow reduction. No spontaneous ventricular fibrillation or inducible ventricular tachycardia occurred with lesser grades (25%, 50%, or 75%) of flow reduction among the control animals. In the myocardial infarction group, five of 24 dogs (21%) were inducible before flow reduction. However, 50% flow reduction in the myocardial infarction group resulted in inducibility of ventricular tachycardia in 12 of 24 dogs (50%); nine of 16 (56%) during 75% flow reduction; and six of 11 (55%) with 100% flow reduction. In addition, none of the dogs in the myocardial infarction group developed spontaneous ventricular fibrillation during 25% or 50% flow reduction, whereas six of 22 (27%) developed ventricular fibrillation during 75% flow reduction and 10 of 21 (48%) during 100% flow reduction. In dogs with spontaneous ventricular fibrillation during flow reduction, the total myocardial mass of the ischemic "risk" zone and infarcted zone was significantly greater than in those without spontaneous ventricular fibrillation (68 +/- 5% versus 56 +/- 6% [p less than 0.01]). There was no difference in the total myocardial mass of the ischemic risk zone and infarcted zone between dogs with and without inducible ventricular tachycardia during flow reduction. CONCLUSIONS. In canine model of subacute myocardial infarction, superimposed ischemia increased the likelihood of inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia with lesser grades of coronary flow reduction compared with that necessary to allow spontaneous ventricular fibrillation. The underlying pathophysiology appears to differ between spontaneous ventricular fibrillation and electrically induced sustained ventricular tachycardia. 
Prevention of bacterial infection in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies. A randomized, multicenter trial comparing norfloxacin with ciprofloxacin. The GIMEMA Infection Program. Gruppo Italiano Malattie Ematologiche Maligne dell'Adulto. OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of norfloxacin and ciprofloxacin in preventing bacterial infection in neutropenic patients. DESIGN: A randomized, controlled, multicenter trial. SETTING: Twenty-one hematologic units in tertiary care or university hospitals. PATIENTS: Eight hundred and one consecutive, afebrile, adult patients who had hematologic malignancies or who had bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy-induced neutropenia (neutrophil count, less than 1000/mm3) expected to last more than 10 days. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive orally every 12 hours norfloxacin, 400 mg, or ciprofloxacin, 500 mg. MEASUREMENTS: Efficacy analysis was done for 619 patients: 319 treated with norfloxacin and 300 treated with ciprofloxacin. MAIN RESULTS: More patients receiving ciprofloxacin did not develop fever during neutropenia and did not receive antibiotics (34%) compared with those receiving norfloxacin (25%) (P = 0.01). Patients receiving ciprofloxacin had a lower rate of microbiologically documented infection (17% compared with 24%; P = 0.058), particularly of infection from gram-negative bacilli (4% compared with 9%; P = 0.03). The interval to the first febrile episode was also longer in patients receiving ciprofloxacin (8.3 compared with 7.2 days; P = 0.055). The rates of clinically documented infection, fever of unknown origin, and mortality as well as compliance and tolerability were similar in the two groups. Patients who had neutropenia for less than 15 days, who had severe neutropenia for less than 7 days, and who received antifungal prophylaxis benefited most from ciprofloxacin therapy. CONCLUSION: Ciprofloxacin should be used to prevent the development of infection in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies. 
Adjuvant whole-abdominal radiation therapy in uterine papillary serous carcinoma. Nine patients from 34 to 74 years of age (median, 67 years of age) with uterine papillary serous carcinoma (UPSC) were treated with whole-abdominal radiation therapy (WART) on an adjuvant basis after cytoreductive surgery. All patients were treated with megavoltage photons to an abdominopelvic field to a median dose of 2500 cGy, with continued treatment to a whole pelvic field to a median dose of 4500 cGy. Three patients received additional boost to the vaginal apex. Follow-up time ranged from 6 to 31 months (median, 25 months) after completion of WART. Six patients had recurrent disease at 5 to 20 months (median, 7.5 months). Four of these patients died of their disease during the follow-up period. Three of six patients in whom treatment failed had disease at the vaginal apex. None of these patients received boost radiation therapy to that site. In contrast, two of three patients remaining disease free were treated with additional vaginal apex irradiation. Based on these results, the authors do not routinely recommend WART for adjuvant treatment of UPSC. They do, however, recommend vaginal apex irradiation for these patients. 
Increased plasma endothelin-1 in the early hours of acute myocardial infarction. Endothelin is a novel endothelium-derived vasoactive peptide with potent vasoconstrictor action in the coronary bed; however, its possible contribution to myocardial ischemia and infarction is not known. Plasma endothelin-1 concentration was measured with use of a radioimmunoassay in serial venous samples from 22 patients over a 72 h period after acute myocardial infarction (14 patients with uncomplicated infarction [group I] and 8 patients with hemodynamic or ischemic sequelae [group II]). Twenty-two normal subjects and seven patients with stable angina served as the control subjects. Endothelin-1 levels in patients with stable coronary disease were not different from those of normal subjects (0.62 +/- 0.56 and 0.76 +/- 0.38 pg/ml, respectively). In group I, plasma levels of endothelin-1 rose sharply after myocardial infarction, reaching a peak of 4.95 +/- 0.78 pg/ml at 6 h after the onset of chest pain (p less than 0.05 compared with values in control subjects) and returning rapidly toward the normal range by 24 h. Patients with complicated infarction (group II) demonstrated a similar rapid increase in plasma endothelin-1 to a peak value of 8.29 +/- 1.95 pg/ml; however, plasma endothelin-1 remained elevated in these patients, becoming significantly different from values in group I at 48 and 72 h. There was no correlation between peak increases in creatine kinase and peak endothelin-1 in either group, suggesting that the stimulus for elevation of endothelin-1 was not myocardial necrosis itself. Furthermore, left ventricular ejection fraction did not correlate with the increase in endothelin-1 in group I patients, whereas there was a significant inverse relation between ventricular function and plasma endothelin-1 in group II. 
Legionella myositis. Neuromuscular involvement in patients with legionnaires' disease is common, with serum CK elevations in up to 78% of patients. A few cases have been associated with neuropathy. The mechanism of injury to the neuromuscular system is unknown, but organisms have not previously been found in nerve or muscle. We report the clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic findings in a patient with Legionella myositis and motor neuropathy, the first case to demonstrate direct muscle invasion by the Legionella organism. 
Lichen planus and mesalazine. Lichen planus is a recognized complication of sulfasalazine therapy. Two patients developed typical oral and cutaneous lichen planus on sulfasalazine and their skin lesions recurred when they were subsequently changed to mesalazine. Lichen planus only resolved on withdrawal of both drugs. It seems likely that the aminosalicylic acid moiety is responsible for this reaction and that lichen planus is a true complication of mesalazine therapy. 
Plantar fasciitis. Etiology, treatment, surgical results, and review of the literature. Plantar fasciitis is a common orthopedic syndrome among athletes and nonathletes. The etiology of the pain is multifactorial but usually involves inflammation and degeneration of the plantar fascia origin. The majority of patients will respond to conservative measures. Surgical treatment is reserved for those patients who do not respond. A complete plantar fascia release is performed through a medial longitudinal incision. Prominent heel spurs and degenerated areas in the plantar fascia are resected. Of 27 surgically treated cases followed from one to three years, satisfactory results were obtained in 24 cases. Histologically, localized fibrosis or granulomatous changes or both were noted in several cases. 
Creatine kinase isoenzyme band mimicking CK MB on agarose gel electrophoresis. The authors report the case of an 80-year-old man with prostatic disease whose serum contained an aberrant band in the MB position on agarose gel electrophoresis of creatine kinase (CK) isoenzymes. The authors demonstrated that the band probably was CK BB; the patient had no evidence of myocardial infarction. Contrary to most previous reports of such cases, the aberrant enzyme did not appear to be linked with IgG, IgA, or IgM; it also did not behave as if attached to a chelatable cation. Care must be taken to avoid mistaking such bands for CK MB. 
Does cigarette smoking have an independent effect on coronary heart disease incidence in the elderly? In order to evaluate the effects of cigarette smoking on coronary heart disease (CHD) in elderly persons in the Honolulu Heart Program, 1,394 men between ages 65 and 74 were followed during an average 12-year period for new cases of nonfatal myocardial infarction and fatal CHD. Incidence rates increased progressively in individuals classified at baseline as never, former, and current smokers, respectively. The absolute excess risk associated with cigarette smoking was nearly twice as high in elderly compared with middle-aged men. 
Muscle mitochondrial DNA in encephalomyopathy and ragged red fibres: a Southern blot analysis and literature review. Various mitochondrial DNA abnormalities have been described in patients with encephalomyopathies. We performed Southern blot analysis of skeletal muscle mitochondrial DNA in nine adult patients with clinical features and ragged red fibres suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction. Two patients with encephalomyopathy and two with the MERRF syndrome (myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibres) had the normal PvuII restriction pattern of muscle mitochondrial DNA. In contrast, mitochondrial DNA deletion was observed in two of six patients with ophthalmoplegia. One suffered from typical Kearns-Sayre syndrome and the other from isolated external ophthalmoplegia. None of these patients had affected relatives. The detection of mitochondrial DNA deletion in external ophthalmoplegia and their site and size support previously reported data. 
Acute positive inotropic intervention: the phosphodiesterase inhibitors. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors that are selective for cAMP-specific cardiac and vascular PDE III comprise a new group of agents for the treatment of heart failure, which at present are limited to clinical shortterm intravenous use and research uses only. Although both intravenous amrinone and milrinone are FDA approved, only amrinone is available for general clinical use. Selective phosphodiesterase inhibition produces beneficial actions of positive inotropy and peripheral vasodilation that result from increased cardiac and vascular muscle concentrations of intracellular cAMP and ionic calcium. In addition, a positive lusitropic action (enhancement of cardiac relaxation) has been observed. Neither beta-adrenergic agonist activity nor inhibition of the sodium-potassium ATPase is produced by these agents. The magnitude of hemodynamic improvement generally exceeds that of the cardiac glycosides and is comparable with that of intravenous catecholamines such as dobutamine. The different pharmacodynamic profile of the PDE inhibitors is additive to the effects of cardiac glycosides, complementary and synergistic to the actions of catecholamines, and has been shown to have favorable effects on coronary hemodynamics. As a result there is continued enthusiasm for the short-term intravenous use of amrinone and potentially milrinone in the setting of acute heart failure resulting from systolic dysfunction (after myocardial infarction, open heart surgery, or infectious or toxic myocarditis), heart failure resulting from right ventricular systolic dysfunction, and when patients with severe heart failure await cardiac transplantation. Initiation of treatment with an intravenous bolus followed by a maintenance infusion provides prompt increases in stroke volume and cardiac output and simultaneous reductions in right and left ventricular filling pressures and systemic vascular resistance. 
Consequences of the nuclear power plant accident at Chernobyl [published erratum appears in Public Health Rep 1991 May-Jun;106(3):352] The Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant accident, in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (SSR), on April 26, 1986, was the first major nuclear power plant accident that resulted in a large-scale fire and subsequent explosions, immediate and delayed deaths of plant operators and emergency service workers, and the radioactive contamination of a significant land area. The release of radioactive material, over a 10-day period, resulted in millions of Soviets, and other Europeans, being exposed to measurable levels of radioactive fallout. Because of the effects of wind and rain, the radioactive nuclide fallout distribution patterns are not well defined, though they appear to be focused in three contiguous Soviet Republics: the Ukrainian SSR, the Byelorussian SSR, and the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic. Further, because of the many radioactive nuclides (krypton, xenon, cesium, iodine, strontium, plutonium) released by the prolonged fires at Chernobyl, the long-term medical, psychological, social, and economic effects will require careful and prolonged study. Specifically, studies on the medical (leukemia, cancers, thyroid disease) and psychological (reactive depressions, post-traumatic stress disorders, family disorganization) consequences of continued low dose radiation exposure in the affected villages and towns need to be conducted so that a coherent, comprehensive, community-oriented plan may evolve that will not cause those already affected any additional harm and confusion. 
Spontaneous near disappearance of bilateral coronary artery-pulmonary artery fistulas. Although coronary artery fistula is a relatively rare anomaly, it sometimes develops with advancing age, requiring surgical removal. We report a unique case of a patient whose bilateral coronary artery-pulmonary artery fistulas nearly disappeared in the course of four years. This case is interesting in view of recognizing one of the natural courses of this entity. 
Cerebral blood flow changes in migraine: methods, observations and hypotheses. A number of basically different methods have been used in studies of the cerebrovascular changes which occur in migraine and each individual set of findings seems to be dependent on which method is used. One method on its own can only disclose a part of all the pathophysiological events. This review is an attempt to consider the capabilities of each method and to bring together the results from different studies on migraine in order to create a complete picture of the cerebrovascular changes which occur during the course of a migraine attack. 
Pulmonary oedema after airway obstruction due to bilateral vocal cord paralysis. We report a case of pulmonary oedema which developed after airway obstruction due to bilateral vocal cord paralysis. The patient was a 52-yr-old woman undergoing craniotomy for an acoustic neuroma. Anaesthesia was uneventful. Spontaneous ventilation resumed after reversal of neuromuscular blockade. Following extubation she showed signs of airway obstruction and dyspnoea. The trachea was reintubated but she became hypoxic, PaO2-36 mmHg, produced pink frothy secretions and the x-ray was typical of pulmonary oedema. The oedema cleared within 24 hr. Tracheostomy was performed one week later as the cords were still fixed, but the latter had recovered by three months and the tracheostomy was closed. The cause of the cord paralysis is unknown but probably was a result of surgical trauma to the brain stem. 
Progression of coronary atherosclerosis: is coronary spasm related to progression? A total of 239 patients undergoing serial coronary angiography with a concomitant ergonovine provocation test were studied between July 1974 and June 1987. The progression of coronary artery disease was evaluated in relation to risk factors, especially coronary artery spasm. Patients were classified into three groups: 1) new myocardial infarction group (39 patients); 2) progression without infarction group (90 patients); and 3) nonprogression group (110 patients). To assess how risk factors and coronary spasm are related to the occurrence of new myocardial infarction and progression without infarction, 11 variables in the three groups were examined: age, gender, the time interval between the studies, fasting blood sugar, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, smoking, serum cholesterol, triglyceride, uric acid and a positive response to the ergonovine provocation test. Multiple regression analysis selected three independent predictors of progression without infarction: cholesterol (p less than 0.01), systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.05) and a positive response to the ergonovine provocation test (p less than 0.001). Multiple regression analysis also selected three independent predictors of the occurrence of new myocardial infarction: fasting blood sugar (p less than 0.01), systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.05) and a positive response to the ergonovine provocation test (p less than 0.001). A positive response to the ergonovine provocation test was the strongest factor for occurrence of both new myocardial infarction and progression without infarction. To evaluate segmental arterial changes, 3,275 coronary artery segments were analyzed in the 239 patients. 
Reductions in cirrhosis deaths in the United States: associations with per capita consumption and AA membership. Cirrhosis mortality and morbidity rates have declined in many jurisdictions, including the U.S., in recent years. Previous research in Canada and Europe suggests that these declines are linked to changes in per capita consumption of alcohol and changes in the availability and/or utilization of services to reduce abusive drinking (e.g., treatment, Alcoholics Anonymous). In this study, changes in cirrhosis death rates in the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia between 1974 and 1983 were regressed onto changes in per capita consumption (1974-83). AA membership (1974-83) and alcoholism treatment (1979-82). No significant relationship between treatment and cirrhosis changes was observed; however, the measure of change in treatment may not reflect the full extent of changes that occurred in the 1974-83 period. As predicted, decreases in per capita consumption and increases in AA membership were significantly associated with decreases in cirrhosis rates. 
Severe, symptomatic, dose-limiting hypophosphatemia induced by hepatic arterial infusion of recombinant tumor necrosis factor in patients with liver metastases. Twenty-two patients with liver metastases received 45 courses of recombinant tumor necrosis factor (rTNF) by hepatic arterial infusion in doses ranging from 12.5 to 175 micrograms/m2/d for 5 days by continuous infusion. The induction of statistically significant, dose-related, severe, albeit transient, hypophosphatemia (less than 1.0 mg/dl) associated with clinically significant, right-sided myocardial dysfunction and severe lassitude was observed. These side effects were promptly reversed after rTNF was stopped and intravenous phosphate supplementation was started. As no significant or consistent increase in urinary phosphate excretion was detected, the rTNF-induced hypophosphatemia probably resulted from an intracellular shift of phosphate. Since tumor regression was clearly associated with the lowest levels of serum phosphate, hypophosphatemia may be important in the antitumor effects of rTNF. 
Psammomatous melanotic schwannoma: an additional component of Carney's complex. Report of a case. The authors report a case of Carney's complex (the complex of myxomas, spotty pigmentation, and endocrine overactivity) in a 32-year-old white man. Psammomatous melanotic schwannoma has recently been included as a component of this disorder. The complex was recognized after a psammomatous melanotic schwannoma was resected from the sacral canal. Subsequent echocardiography revealed ventricular cardiac myxomata. Resection of these lesions was successfully performed. Review of previous history and pathologic material further supported the diagnosis. The authors conclude that recognition of each component as part of the syndrome is of crucial importance, because it may prevent a fatal outcome. A family screening program should be performed in each case. 
Lower-extremity vascular grafts placed for peripheral vascular disease: prospective evaluation with duplex Doppler sonography. Eighty-five men with 92 vascular grafts placed for peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremity underwent a total of 264 examinations with duplex Doppler over a 2.5-year period. In 64 patients who underwent more than one examination, the total follow-up encompassed 740 months. In 220 native femoral arteries (96.0%) the peak systolic velocity (PSV) was higher than that in the graft. Arteriovenous shunting was associated with a normal PSV and a markedly elevated diastolic component at spectral analysis. Focal fluid collections were common initially near the graft and usually disappeared uneventfully. An average PSV of 32 cm/sec or less was always associated with impending occlusion. The sensitivity of an average PSV of 40 cm/sec or less to indicate impending graft occlusion by the next visit was only 33%; the specificity, 94%. At initial examination, stenoses were associated with high PSV focally in the graft or low PSV with absent diastolic flow. 
Ulcerative colitis in the autotransplanted neovagina. A 33-year-old woman had undergone a radical surgical excision for carcinoma of the vagina at age 11. Vaginal reconstruction using a pedicled transplant of the sigmoid colon was successfully accomplished at age 19. Fourteen years later she developed vaginal bleeding, and a biopsy of the neovagina revealed changes consistent with ulcerative colitis. Within 2 weeks the patient developed bleeding per ano, and a rectal biopsy also revealed changes consistent with ulcerative colitis. Symptoms responded to sulfasalazine. This is believed to be the first case report of ulcerative colitis developing in colonic tissue used for a neovagina. The etiology, natural history, and surveillance of ulcerative colitis in relation to this unique case are reviewed. This case argues against the hypothesis that chronic ulcerative colitis is causally related to direct exposure to alimentary antigens. 
Effect of interferon administration on serum hepatitis C virus RNA in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Hepatitis C virus RNA as detected by reverse transcription and nested polymerase chain reaction was monitored in 16 patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with interferon. Hepatitis C virus RNA became undetectable after 4 to 8 wk of interferon administration in 13 of the 16 patients. During 6 mo of follow-up, 5 of the 13 patients who became negative for hepatitis C virus RNA after interferon administration remained negative, and all five continued to have normal ALT levels. Repeat liver biopsy in these five patients revealed histological improvement. Antibody to hepatitis C virus, which was initially positive in all treated patients, fell to undetectable levels in three of the five patients. In contrast, aminotransferase levels rose again in all eight patients who had become hepatitis C virus RNA negative but had again exhibited hepatitis C virus RNA after completion of therapy. In 16 untreated patients, hepatitis C virus RNA remained detectable. These results indicate that detection of hepatitis C virus RNA may be useful as a marker of viral replication in chronic hepatitis C; they also suggest that interferon should again be administered to patients who become hepatitis C virus RNA negative on treatment but again exhibit this marker of viral replication when treatment is stopped. 
Partial hypoparathyroidism. A variant of transient congenital hypoparathyroidism. We encountered three children who had neonatal hypocalcemia followed by a period of normocalcemia and recurrence of hypocalcemia later in childhood. They were full-term infants with normal birth weights who developed hypocalcemia within the first 48 hours after birth. The hypocalcemia resolved in 1 week, 3 months, and 14 months in the three patients. The recurrences of hypocalcemia occurred at 4, 7, and 12 years of age. Their plasma parathyroid hormone concentrations were consistently low but detectable. We suggest that partial hypoparathyroidism is the underlying abnormality in these patients and that neonatal hypocalcemia in otherwise healthy infants indicates the need for calcium measurements during childhood and adolescence. 
Comparison of the aortic homograft and the pulmonary autograft for aortic valve or root replacement in children. To assess late results of aortic homograft and pulmonary autograft valves implanted into the left ventricular outflow tract of children, we reviewed the case histories of 146 patients 18 years of age or younger who underwent aortic valve or root replacement between November 1964 and April 1990. One hundred three patients (mean, 12 +/- 3.9 years) received an aortic homograft and 43 (mean, 14 +/- 4.1 years) had their own pulmonary valve transferred to the aortic position. There were 54 valve and 49 root replacements with homografts and 36 valve and seven root replacements with autografts. Hospital mortality rate was 15.5% (16 patients) in the homograft group and 11.6% (five patients) in the autograft group. Survivors were followed up for a total of 867 (homograft) and 297 (autograft) patient-years. The late mortality rate was 16.7% (1.9% per patient-year) for patients with homografts and 13.2% (4.4% per patient-year) for patients with autografts, whereas the incidence for reoperation per patient-year was 2.9% and 2.0%, respectively. At 15 years actuarial rates for homografts and autografts for freedom from reoperation were 54% +/- 8.1% and 68% +/- 11.1%; freedom from endocarditis, 97% +/- 2.4% and 75% +/- 10.2%; and freedom from any complication, 41% +/- 6.5% and 50% +/- 10.3%. Valve degeneration occurred in 19 homografts (2.2% per patient-year), whereas there was no definite instance of primary tissue failure among the pulmonary autografts. This experience would indicate that either the homograft or the autograft valve can be used with acceptable results in children. However, the pulmonary autograft gives better long-term performance and, if growth potential is realized, may be the ideal valve substitute in children. 
The relationship of sodium balance and concomitant diuretic therapy to blood pressure response with calcium channel entry blockers. Marked heterogeneity exists in the response of blood pressure to specific antihypertensive agents. In general, a single therapeutic agent can be expected to provide an adequate blood pressure response in 40% to 60% of hypertensive patients. The addition of a second agent usually extends the response rate to over 85%. The addition of a diuretic to nondiuretic regimens often produces an additive blood pressure-lowering effect. However, calcium channel entry blockers (CCBs) may be an exception, as diuretics do not appear to improve these agents' efficacy. CCBs have a dual mechanism for blood pressure reduction. In addition to their vasodilatory actions, they also promote diuresis and natriuresis. These features account for the striking efficacy of these agents when used as monotherapy in hypertensive patients. Studies have shown that dietary sodium restriction does not appear to improve the efficacy of CCBs, nor is a high-salt diet predictive of a better therapeutic outcome. Recent studies also indicate that the addition of a diuretic to a CCB does not produce a significant or consistent additive antihypertensive effect. Because CCBs do not produce the typical responses of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) system to sodium/volume depletion, their diuretic and natriuretic effects do not result in the same adverse metabolic consequences as experienced with traditional diuretic therapy. 
Fibrin fragment D-dimer and fibrinogen B beta peptides in plasma as markers of clot lysis during thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. The validity of markers in plasma of in vitro thrombolysis was investigated in 12 patients with extensive fibrinogen breakdown (greater than 80%, group 1) and in 12 patients with minimal breakdown (less than 20%, group 2). The patients were treated with 100 mg of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in the "Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction II" (TIMI II) trial. Cross-linked fibrin degradation product levels were measured with two variant enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), both using a fibrin fragment D-dimer specific capture antibody. In one instance, a tag antibody was used that cross-reacts with fibrinogen (pan-specific tag ELISA); in the other, the tag antibody was specific for fibrin fragment D (fibrin-specific tag ELISA). Apparent concentrations of cross-linked fibrin degradation products at baseline were within normal limits with both assays in most patients. At 8 hours after rt-PA infusion, the measured cross-linked fibrin degradation products were increased about twofold to fourfold in group 2 with both assays. However, in group 1, levels were significantly higher with the pan-specific tag ELISA (5.8 +/- 4.2 micrograms/mL) compared with the fibrin-specific tag ELISA (1.5 +/- 1.3 micrograms/mL). This observation was most likely a result of detection of fibrinogen degradation products in the pan-specific ELISA. Apparent levels of fibrinopeptide B beta 1-42, a marker of fragment X formation, increased during thrombolysis from 4.2 +/- 2.8 pmol/mL to 2,000 +/- 230 pmol/mL in group 1 and from 4.1 +/- 2.1 pmol/mL to 300 +/- 43 pmol/mL in group 2, and were correlated significantly with the extent of fibrinogen breakdown (r = -0.8). Fibrinopeptide beta 15-42 levels increased from 4.3 +/- 3 pmol/mL to 70 +/- 19 pmol/mL in group 1, but did not increase in group 2. The apparent increase in group 1 could be explained by cross-reactivity of fibrinopeptide B beta 1-42 in the fibrinopeptide beta 15-42 assay. We conclude that cross-linked fibrin degradation product levels as measured with a pan-specific tag ELISA and fibrinopeptide beta 15-42 levels as measured with certain monoclonal antibody-based ELISA are influenced by the extent of fibrinogen degradation. Fibrinopeptide B beta 1-42 is a marker specific for fibrinogen breakdown. Cross-linked fibrin degradation product levels, measured with a fibrin-specific tag ELISA, appear to be markers specific for thrombolysis. Consequently, assays similar to the fibrin-specific tag ELISA may provide more accurate information when correlated with clinical endpoints. 
Management of labyrinthine fistulas caused by cholesteatoma. The surgical management of labyrinthine fistulas caused by cholesteatoma remains controversial. Forty cases (41 ears) of labyrinthine fistulas were reviewed. This represented 10% of our total series of cholesteatomas in adults and children (426 ears). Clinical presentation, extent of disease, results of fistula testing and audiometric studies, and radiographic findings were analyzed. A canal wall-down procedure was performed in all but one patient. Generally an attempt was made to completely remove the cholesteatoma, to graft the fistulous area, and to reconstruct the middle ear mechanism in one stage. The matrix was preserved in patients with large fistulas where the involved ear was the only hearing one, when the matrix was adherent to the underlying optic duct, and in selected elderly persons. Long-term followup did not reveal a significant difference in hearing, degree of vertigo, or incidence of recidivism when those patients in whom the matrix was removed were compared with those in whom the matrix was preserved. The importance of recognizing the presence of a labyrinthine fistula preoperatively is stressed, along with the need to be prepared for an unexpected fistula. Operative management is described. 
Catecholaminergic neurons in the parabrachial nucleus of normal individuals and patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The parabrachial nucleus is believed to play a role in autonomic regulation. We have used the Fontana-Masson ammoniacal silver nitrate method and a tyrosine hydroxylase-immunostaining technique to demonstrate the presence of neuromelanin-containing catecholaminergic neurons in the parabrachial nucleus of normal individuals. In addition, we also show that there is a significant reduction of these catecholaminergic neurons and presence of Lewy bodies in the parabrachial nucleus of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. These findings may be related to the several autonomic disturbances that may occur in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. 
A loading dose/continuous infusion schedule of fludarabine phosphate in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Using a loading dose/continuous infusion schedule, fludarabine phosphate was administered to 51 patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). All patients had evidence of active disease, and the majority had advanced Rai stages. Of the 42 patients assessable for response, 22 (52%) achieved a partial response, five (12%) had stable disease, and 15 (36%) progressed. Thirteen of the 22 responders improved their Rai stages with fludarabine therapy, including six patients who achieved stage 0. Response rates for pretreatment stages III and IV were 60% and 53%, respectively. Patients with final Rai stages 0 to II had better survival than those with stages III and IV. Patients who had undergone splenectomy before starting therapy were more likely to respond. Myelosuppression was the primary toxicity and did not appear to be cumulative. Severe leukopenia and thrombocytopenia, although infrequent, were associated with several deaths in the early cycles of treatment. Nonhematologic toxicity was mild with no serious neurotoxicity noted. Infections were common with 22 minor, 18 major, and 10 fatal episodes. Fludarabine phosphate by this alternative dosing schedule is effective in refractory advanced CLL and is well tolerated by the majority of patients. 
Response to tumor necrosis factor in two cases of psoriasis. A 70-year-old woman was treated for renal cell carcinoma with recombinant human tumor necrosis factor, 450,000 U/m2 of body surface area, daily for 5 days, once a month. She had had psoriasis for 25 years. After two courses of recombinant human tumor necrosis factor her psoriasis resolved. A 40-year-old man with severe psoriasis was subsequently treated with a total of seven complete and incomplete 5-day courses of recombinant human tumor necrosis factor at doses of 50,000 to 300,000 U/m2/day. Significant toxicity (fever, chills, hypertension, and hypotension) was encountered. Partial resolution of the lesions was seen. Tumor necrosis factor is an active agent in psoriasis. 
Prostaglandin F2 alpha and indomethacin in hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia. Effects on pulmonary hemodynamics and gas exchange. We treated a 68-year-old man with cirrhosis of the liver associated with moderate hypoxemia. Contrast-enhanced echocardiography revealed late opacification of the left ventricle, and pulmonary perfusion imaging with 99mTc macroaggregated albumin showed evidence of a significant uptake in both lungs and in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Right cardiac catheterization revealed pulmonary hypotension, low pulmonary vascular resistance, and high cardiac output. We administered prostaglandin F2 alpha intravenously (0.2 microgram/kg/min for 30 minutes) and indomethacin orally (75 mg/day for three days). There was some degree of resolution of the hypoxemia and increases in both pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance. These findings suggest that the pathophysiology of hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia is a reversible intrapulmonary vascular dilatation. These conditions can to some extent be modulated by vasoactive substances such as prostaglandins or other eicosanoids. 
The effects of adenotonsillectomy on growth in young children. A history of poor weight gain can often be elicited in young children with chronic upper airway obstruction resulting from adenotonsillar hypertrophy. A series of 41 consecutive children under 3 years of age, who underwent inpatient adenotonsillectomy, were reviewed for changes in weight and height. Thirty-seven patients had adequate long-term follow-up. Of these, many had dramatic improvements in growth after adenotonsillectomy. Indications for surgery in this group were recurrent infection in three patients (7%), unilateral tonsillar mass in one patient (3%), and upper airway obstruction in 37 patients (90%). A clear history of sleep apnea was elicited in 59%. At the time of surgery, 19 of 41 patients (46%) were of the fifth percentile or lower for age-corrected weight. The inpatient hospital stay averaged 3.2 days. The postoperative complication rate was 27%, with postoperative stridor as the most common complication. After surgery, 28 children (75%) showed a change to a higher percentile for weight. Twenty-four (65%) had percentile changes of 15% or more. This change is significant according to results of the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (p less than 0.001). We conclude that a relationship exists between improved growth rate and adenotonsillectomy in our study group. The rapid improvement in growth appears to be most obvious in children with upper airway obstruction resulting from adenotonsillar hypertrophy. Upper airway obstruction (including andenotonsillar hypertrophy) should be suspected as a possible cause in the workup of children with suboptimum growth. 
Oral almitrine in treatment of acute respiratory failure and cor pulmonale in patients with an exacerbation of chronic obstructive airways disease. The effects of oral almitrine bismesylate, a respiratory stimulant that acts on peripheral arterial chemoreceptors, was studied in patients with chronic obstructive airways disease and hypoxaemic cor pulmonale. Twenty three patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of ventilatory failure were randomised to receive either almitrine 100 mg twice a day reducing to 50 mg twice a day over 48 hours or placebo in addition to conventional treatment. On admission the mean (SE) values for blood gas tensions were PaO2 4.8 (0.3) and PaCO2 7.7 (0.3) kPa in the 12 patients who received almitrine and PaO2 4.9 (0.1) and PaCO2 7.6 (0.3) kPa in the 11 who received placebo. After three hours of oxygen therapy at 1 1/min there was a similar rise in PaO2 in both groups, 6.4 (0.2) kPa in those receiving almitrine and 6.6 (0.4) kPa in those receiving placebo. After 24 hours of oxygen therapy values of PaO2 were again similar at 6.3 (0.8) kPa and 6.7 (2.2) kPa respectively. Arterial blood gas tensions improved during the study in those who survived but no significant differences were apparent between the two groups. There were six deaths, five in the almitrine group and one in the placebo group. There were no differences between the groups in respiratory rate, results of spirometry, oxygen requirement, or degree of dyspnoea (on visual analogue scale). The results did not show any benefit from oral almitrine in patients with acute respiratory failure secondary to chronic obstructive airways disease. Plasma almitrine concentrations, however, were often below the optimum therapeutic range, suggesting impaired drug absorption. 
Medication-induced esophageal injury: report of 17 cases with endoscopic documentation. We report on medication-induced esophageal injury (MIEI) in 17 patients (six male, 11 female) seen from October 1986 to May 1990. The mean age of patients was 27.3 (SD = 5.7) yr; mean duration of drug ingestion prior to the occurrence of symptoms 10.2 (SD = 11.5) days, and mean duration of symptoms before seeking medical attention 4.6 (SD = 3.8) days. Symptoms subsided after treatment, with a mean of 6 (SD = 2.5) days. Symptoms included odynophagia (in 17), chest pain (six), epigastric pain (three), and retrosternal pain (one). Symptoms occurred after the drug was stopped in three. MIEI was caused by doxycycline (seven), minocycline (five), Pantozyme (one), cloxacillin (one), unknown (two), and dicloxacillin + Danzen (one). Reclining after drug ingestion was the predominant risk factor. Endoscopy showed most ulcers to be multiple and at midesophagus. Barium swallows done in two patients were negative. There is no previous report of Pantozyme (pancreatic enzyme), Danzen (serratio-peptidase), cloxacillin, and dicloxacillin causing MIEI. 
Developing a dysphagia program in an acute care hospital: a needs assessment. A needs assessment for a hospital-based dysphagia program was conducted to determine incidence, management procedures, and outcome for stroke patients with swallowing disorders. Using a chart review of 225 patients, it was found that 28% had documented evidence of dysphagia. When dysphagia co-occurred with stroke, significantly more functional problems and medical complications were reported, as well as increased need for dietary modifications and alternative feeding methods. The dysphagic patients were more often aphasic and dysarthric and less able to communicate. Mental status was more likely to be reduced and the need for staff supervision during mealtime was increased. Dysphagic patients had significantly longer hospital stays, thus increasing the cost of their care. At discharge, almost half of them continued to need feeding modifications, which may have delayed rehabilitation or transfer to facilities with other levels of care. The dysphagia group clearly displayed a wide range of clinical symptoms that would alert staff to their risk for medical complications because of swallowing problems. We believe that this needs assessment clearly showed that a multidisciplinary dysphagia management program has the potential to enhance patient care while decreasing the cost of health care delivery for the hospital. 
Human interleukin-9: genomic sequence, chromosomal location, and sequences essential for its expression in human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV)-I-transformed human T cells. We have isolated the genomic sequence of human interleukin-9 (IL-9) based on its sequence homology with a human IL-9 cDNA isolated from human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV)-I-transformed T cells by expression cloning. The entire genomic sequence has been determined and the gene consists of five exons and four introns. The human IL-9 gene is mapped to the long arm of human chromosome 5 at band 5q31-32, a region found to be deleted in a number of patients with acquired 5q- abnormalities and hematologic disorders. Several blocks of transcriptional control sequences have been identified at the 5'-flanking region of the human IL-9 gene that may play an important role in the control of IL-9 gene expression. The 5'-regulatory region of the human IL-9 gene also contains sequences identified in the 5'-flanking regions of other cytokine genes mapped to the long arm of human chromosome 5, including IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and other T-cell growth factor genes including IL-2 and IL-6. The IL-9 gene is constitutively expressed in the HTLV-I-transformed human T cells and the expression of IL-9 in these cells can be further induced by 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate. Transient transfection analysis using the plasmid containing the 5'-flanking region of IL-9 gene upstream from the firefly luciferase ciferase report gene indicated that the 0.9-kb Smal-Sacl fragment of the IL-9 gene contains sequences required for the constitutive and activated expression of IL-9 gene in HTLV-I-transformed cells. These results will now allow us to study the regulatory mechanism of IL-9 gene expression in normal and leukemic human T cells. 
Randomized controlled trial of prophylactic rifampin for peritoneal dialysis-related infections. Staphylococcal infections are a major cause of catheter infections and peritonitis in peritoneal dialysis patients. Since catheter-related infections are associated with nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus in this population, we studied the effect of intermittent rifampin, an antibiotic known to decrease S aureus nasal carriage, on catheter-related infections and peritonitis. We randomly assigned 64 patients to receive either rifampin 300 mg twice daily for 5 days every 3 months or no treatment. The rifampin-treated patients had a significant delay in time to first catheter-related infection (P less than 0.015) and significantly fewer catheter-related infections overall (P less than 0.001). The catheter-related infection rate in rifampin-treated patients was .26 per patient-year versus .93 per patient-year in untreated patients. Multivariate analysis defined baseline colonization of nares or catheter exit-site and prior renal transplant as risk factors for catheter-related infections. There was no significant difference in peritonitis rates between groups, although the trend was for a delayed time to first episodes and fewer episodes in rifampin-treated patients. Adverse effects necessitated withdrawal of rifampin in four patients. We conclude that intermittent rifampin administration is effective in decreasing catheter-related infections in a peritoneal dialysis population. 
Dissecting the primary causes of genetic hypertension in rats. Blood pressure has a genetic component influenced by several to many genetic loci in both humans and animals; that is, blood pressure is a polygenic trait. Ultimately, the primary causes of genetic hypertension can only be established with genetic techniques. The primary tools for this analysis in animals are inbred strains of rodents selectively bred for differences in blood pressure and the genetic analysis of these strains by cosegregation techniques. This analysis determines whether it is possible to separate specific alleles at a candidate genetic locus from a component of blood pressure in genetically segregating populations. If the candidate alleles cosegregate with a component of blood pressure, these alleles must be the cause of the blood pressure differences or be linked on the same chromosome to alleles at other loci that cause blood pressure differences. If, on the other hand, the candidate alleles do not cosegregate with blood pressure, they cannot be the cause of the blood pressure differences. This analysis is straightforward in the case of a single-locus Mendelian candidate trait but is less informative if a candidate trait is itself polygenic. In this case, genetic analysis yields either 1) results that are compatible with, but not definitive proof for, a genetic role of the trait in causing blood pressure differences or 2) results that eliminate the trait as a cause of genetic differences in blood pressure. A complete listing of all the traits that have undergone genetic cosegregation analysis in rodents is given. 
The diagnosis of reflex sympathetic dystrophy using an algometer. Thirty-three patients with reflex sympathetic dystrophy were studied prospectively to ascertain the pressure-pain threshold of affected and unaffected limbs. The affected side had a lower threshold which was found to be statistically significant. In all 18 patients with upper limb involvement, the pain threshold was reduced on the affected side, but this applied to only 11 of the 15 with leg involvement. This difference may be because patients with lower limb symptoms had been referred later in the course of the syndrome. We showed by repeated tests that after an average of 49 days there was a slow return to normality. The estimation of pressure-pain thresholds may help in the earlier diagnosis of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. 
Mesh-constricted varicose and dilated veins used as arterial bypass grafts. To avoid non-autogenous vascular prostheses in coronary and peripheral vascular procedures, otherwise unusable dilated, varicose or thin-walled veins can be implanted as naturally endothelialized grafts after being calibrated by insertion into mesh tubes. In six sheep the 14 mm diameter jugular vein was inserted into a 12 cm long, 6 mm diameter Dacron mesh tube and implanted as a femoropopliteal graft. On the contralateral side the femoral vein with a maximal diameter of 7 to 8 mm was implanted. At control angiography after two months all grafts were patent, none of the wrapped grafts showed wrinkles or signs of anastomotic hyperplasia. Segments of wrapped veins were casted in paraffin under physiological pressure and cut transversely. In all cases the vein wall was pressed against the mesh tubes without forming folds. Mesh-wrapped varicose veins were used for three femorocrural and seven femoropopliteal reconstructions. All grafts showed a smooth flow surface at control angiography. Indentations occurred only at sites where thick-walled side branches had been ligated rather than oversewn. One popliteo-pedal reconstruction occluded after two months and one patient with a crural reconstruction died two months after surgery with a patent graft. The remaining grafts were patent after 11 (2-32) months. Oversized veins can be considerably constricted by tubes without forming wrinkles. By this technique varicose veins can be used as bypass grafts and in general vein grafts can be matched in size to the recipient vessel. 
Outcome in children who nearly drown: a British Isles study OBJECTIVE--To determine the outcome in nearly drowned children in the British Isles and identify factors that might predict a poor prognosis. DESIGN--Study of drowned and of nearly drowned children aged less than or equal to 14. Information on nearly drowned children admitted to hospital obtained from consultant paediatricians returning monthly notification cards through the British Paediatric Surveillance Unit. Information on drowned children obtained from Office of Population Censuses and Surveys and other national epidemiological offices. SETTING--British Isles, 1988 and 1989. SUBJECTS--330 children who had confirmed submersion incidents. 142 died before admission to hospital and 188 children were admitted after nearly drowning. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Death, full recovery, or degree of handicap after near drowning and signs on admission to hospital. RESULTS--All of the children who were conscious on admission fully recovered. Of the 64 children unconscious on admission, 31 had normally reactive pupils and all but three (all of whom had severe preexisting neurological disease) recovered fully. Of the 33 children with fixed dilated pupils on admission, 10 fully recovered, 13 died, and 10 had severe neurological deficit. Spontaneous respiratory effect on admission was associated with normal survival. Pupils that remained dilated six hours after admission and fits continuing 24 hours after admission predicted a poor outcome. CONCLUSION--Children can survive normally after near drowning in the British Isles, particularly if they have been hypothermic. Resuscitation should not be abandoned in nearly drowned children until they have been rewarmed. 
Increasing breast cancer screening among the medically underserved--Dade County, Florida, September 1987-March 1991. Efforts to detect breast cancer at early stages are critical in reducing breast cancer-associated mortality. However, in the United States, different barriers (e.g., lack of insurance, limited access to medical care, and limited awareness of the importance of early diagnosis and treatment) prevent certain groups from using early detection services. To promote early detection of breast cancer among an estimated 67,000 medically underserved women aged greater than or equal to 40 years, the Early Detection Program (EDP) was begun in Dade County, Florida, in the fall of 1987 (1). This report summarizes the progress of the program for September 1987 through March 1991. 
Outcome of infants and children with dilated cardiomyopathy. A review of 81 infants and children with dilated, poorly contracting left ventricles without associated structural abnormalities was undertaken to identify risk factors for poor outcome, which could be used in selecting candidates for cardiac transplantation. Significant atrial or ventricular dysrhythmias, or both, were detected on presentation or during follow-up in 24 patients. Arrhythmias were present in only 8 of 51 survivors (16%) but were detected in 16 of 30 patients (53%) who died (p less than 0.05). Patients dying suddenly were even more likely to have had documented dysrhythmias (8 of 11, p less than 0.05). Left ventricular shortening fraction was similar in survivors and nonsurvivors (14.9 +/- 1.0% vs 15.3 +/- 1.7%). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure in 44 patients who had cardiac catheterization averaged 20.8 +/- 1.6 mm Hg. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly higher in patients who died than in those who survived (29.5 +/- 2.2 vs 15.0 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, p less than 0.001). Analysis of actuarial survival revealed that mortality was highest during the first 6 months after presentation (19% mortality). Survival declined more gradually thereafter and was 70% at 2 years, 64% at 5 years and 52% after 11.5 years. Age at initial presentation did not have any significant impact on survival. However, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure greater than 25 torr was associated with a significantly increased mortality rate (p less than 0.05). Early cardiac transplantation should be considered in patients with markedly elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure or complex atrial or ventricular arrhythmias. 
Inner ear damage secondary to diabetes mellitus. I. Changes in adolescent SHR/N-cp rats. The association between diabetes mellitus and hearing impairment has been debated in many previous studies. The spontaneous hypertensive/NIH-corpulent (SHR/N-cp) rat has been shown to be a unique genetic model for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Seventeen diabetic and 17 control young male rats were divided into groups according to diet and phenotype. The rats were fed either 54% of sucrose or 54% starch diets for 3.5 months and killed at 5 months. The cochleas were fixed, decalcified, dissected, and stained for hair cell counting. A significant loss of outer hair cells was noted in the diabetic obese (SHR/N-cp) animals when compared with the control obese (LA/N-cp) animals in every group. Although no significant difference was noted between the diabetic obese (SHR/N-cp) animals receiving the starch and sugar diets, the diabetic obese (SHR/N-cp) animals were more severely affected than the nondiabetic lean (SHR/N-cp) rats. 
Cortical benzodiazepine receptor binding in patients with generalized and partial epilepsy. Impaired cortical inhibition may be involved in epileptogenic mechanisms. In a positron-emission tomography (PET) study, we demonstrated a reduction of the cortical benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor density in the epileptic foci of patients with partial epileptic seizures. In the present study, we used the same method in 10 patients with primary generalized epilepsy to determine whether an altered BZD receptor binding could also be demonstrated in this patient group. The [11C]-labeled BZD receptor antagonist Ro 15-1788 was used as ligand. Receptor affinities and densities were calculated in various cortical regions and then compared with the values from corresponding "nonepileptic" regions in the previously examined partial epilepsy patients. Focal alterations of the BZD receptor density or affinity were not demonstrated in patients with generalized epilepsy. This patient group had a slight tendency toward lower mean cortical BZD receptor density, however, as compared with corresponding values from 10 patients with partial epilepsy. Our results strongly suggest that a focal alteration of cortical inhibition is not a prominent feature of human generalized epilepsy. The observed tendency toward lower mean cortical BZD receptor density may be a consequence of diffusely impaired cortical inhibition. Further investigations of this issue are therefore indicated. 
Synthesis and evaluation of new iodine-125 radiopharmaceuticals as potential tracers for malignant melanoma. The synthesis, labeling, and biodistribution of four 125I radiopharmaceuticals designed to localize in melanoma were tested. Uptake in tumors was demonstrated by autoradiography of whole-body sections and quantitated by measurement of radioactivity of selected tissues and tumors using melanoma-bearing mice. N-(2-diethylaminoethyl)-4-iodobenzamide was selected for its highest melanoma uptake: 60 min after IV injection of 6.5% and 4% ID/g, respectively for murine B16 and human melanotic melanoma. Tumor uptake showed the highest values of all analyzed tissues from 6 to 24 hr after injection. High uptake in melanotic tumor tissue with relatively low uptake in blood, muscle, brain, lung, and liver tissue resulted in high tumor/nontumor ratios (at 24 hr for B16, tumor/blood = 37, tumor/brain = 147, tumor/muscle = 95). This agent was compared with iodoamphetamine. Scintigraphic images of the tumor confirmed that external detection of melanoma is possible with this new radiopharmaceutical. 
Choledocholithiasis in acute gallstone pancreatitis. Incidence and clinical significance. A prospective study of choledocholithiasis was performed using 110 patients with presumptive diagnoses of acute gallstone pancreatitis. The incidence of migrating and persistent bile duct stones was determined using stool screening and intraoperative cholangiography, and the clinical significance of continued stone obstruction of the papilla was investigated using ultrasound assessment of migration time and a second evaluation of prognostic signs. Pancreatic inflammation was confirmed at surgery in 51 patients, of whom only 27 had stones in the stools (n = 22) or the bile duct (n = 5), suggesting that choledocholithiasis may not be the sole triggering factor of acute gallstone pancreatitis. Neither delayed migration nor persistent stone obstruction of the papilla promoted pancreatic inflammation. 
Dissecting aneurysms of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. The authors present three cases of dissecting aneurysms of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). A literature search revealed only three previous cases. Analysis of these six cases showed a unique clinical picture. Three patients developed subarachnoid hemorrhage, and the other three had ischemia. All patients complained of occipital headache or neck pain, regardless of the initial symptoms. Heralding episodes were recorded in four cases. Angiography showed a characteristic fusiform dilatation of the PICA and a narrowing proximal to and distal to the lesion. Various surgical treatments were performed in five cases. Intraoperative observation showed a sausage-like swelling of the PICA or one of its branches with various discoloration depending on the age of the intramural clot. The outcomes were favorable. 
Interference between gastroesophageal reflux and sleep in near miss SIDS. GER may be considered as one of the triggering factors in some apparently life-threatening events or even SIDS. Also at the present time, many teams perform 24-h pH monitoring in at-risk infants and treat those with abnormal scores. However, further investigations are needed to answer the question: Which unknown additional factor(s) is present when a specific episode of GER causes apnea and/or bradycardia either during sleep or wakefulness?. 
Stromal osseous metaplasia in carcinoma of the bladder. Osseous metaplasia of the stroma of carcinomas of the bladder is a rare finding that must be distinguished from osteosarcoma and carcinosarcoma. We report a case of multifocal osseous metaplasia in a high grade urothelial carcinoma with extensive glandular differentiation, arising in the base of the bladder of an 84-year-old man. Reports of 11 other cases of stromal osseous metaplasia in primary bladder carcinomas and of 5 cases of stromal osseous metaplasia in metastases of bladder carcinoma are reviewed. 
Effects of interferon-gamma therapy on thyroid function, T-lymphocyte subpopulations and induction of autoantibodies. Treatment with human leucocyte interferon (IFN alpha) has been associated with the development of thyroid autoimmunity and hypothyroidism, but it is not certain whether this phenomenon was a result of contamination with IFN gamma, which induced HLA class II antigen expression on T-lymphocytes. We prospectively studied 11 subjects (5 females and 6 males; mean age, 26.8 yr; range, 18-36) with chronic active hepatitis B who were randomized to receive recombinant human IFN gamma (rhIFN gamma; 10(6) U/m2.day, im, 3 times/week) for 16 weeks. Goiter was not present, and no patient had a history or family history of autoimmune diseases. Serial thyroid functions, including serum T4, T3, free thyroid hormone index, free T4 and TSH before, during, and on subsequent follow-up for a period of 1 yr were all normal. Eight patients had adequate serial samples for study of serological and lymphocyte subpopulations. None of the patients treated with rhIFN gamma developed thyroglobulin or thyroid microsomal antibodies. However, four patients developed antinuclear and smooth muscle autoantibodies during or after rhIFN gamma treatment. Treatment with rhIFN gamma resulted in a significant increase in circulating T-lymphocytes and HLA-DR-positive T-cells (P less than 0.05), with equal proportions of circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells becoming DR positive. The percentage of HLA-DR-positive T-cells remained elevated after discontinuation of rhIFN gamma. Also, rhIFN gamma treatment led to a decrease in the number of circulating granulocytes and interleukin-2 receptor-positive cells. In conclusion, we did not observe any thyroid dysfunction or thyroid autoimmunity in our patients treated with the studied dose of rhIFN gamma, but induction of other autoantibodies was observed. 
Pericardial mass mimicking constrictive pericarditis. Persistent pericardial hematoma due to blunt chest trauma is extremely rare. We report a case of constricted myocardium resulting from a large, partially organized hematoma in the right cardiophrenic angle. The hematoma was assumed to be caused by an occupational accident 17 years before diagnosis. Constriction could only be controlled by complete removal of the fibrous posterior capsule of the hematoma, which covered the epicardium of the right heart. 
The effect of an extra-articular procedure on allograft reconstructions for chronic ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament. A study was performed on the effect of the addition of an extra-articular procedure involving tenodesis of the iliotibial band to a reconstruction with a bone-patellar ligament-bone allograft for the treatment of chronic rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament. One hundred and four patients were divided into two groups for comparison: Group 1 (sixty-four patients) was treated with only an intra-articular replacement with an allograft and Group 2 (forty patients), with both an intra-articular replacement with an allograft and the extra-articular procedure. Preoperatively, there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in terms of twenty variables, including body weight, level of activity, anterior-posterior displacements, number of previous operations, and duration of follow-up. All of the patients returned for follow-up evaluation twenty-three to fifty-four months (mean, thirty-five months) postoperatively. All were treated with the same postoperative program of immediate motion of the knee and rehabilitation. The results were evaluated with the use of a comprehensive subjective and objective system that rated the twenty factors. Both procedures proved to be effective in decreasing functional limitations and symptoms and in improving the level of sports activity and the over-all scores. The results in Group 2 were significantly better than those in Group 1, as measured with tests done with the KT-1000 arthrometer (p less than 0.01) and with regard to the level of sports activity (p less than 0.05) and the over-all scores (p less than 0.01). There was no postoperative difference between the two groups in terms of the results on pivot-shift or isokinetic testing, patellofemoral crepitus, functional limitations, or symptoms. The program of rehabilitation effectively restored 0 to 135 degrees of motion to all but four knees, which lacked 5 degrees of extension at the most recent follow-up. The over-all rate of failure for both groups was 11 per cent. However, the rate of failure was 16 per cent (ten of sixty-four knees) in Group 1 and only 3 per cent (one of forty knees) in Group 2. This difference was significant (p less than 0.05). The extra-articular procedure appeared to provide support to the healing intra-articular allograft by reducing deleterious forces and tibial displacements, and to restore the secondary restraints provided by the lateral iliotibial band. The results suggest that the combination of the procedures is of value in young, athletically active people who have chronic rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Nasal administration of salmon calcitonin for prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in children with nephrosis. To determine the effect of intranasal administration of salmon calcitonin on glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in children with nephrosis, we gave 100 U of calcitonin intranasally on alternate days with 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 to five children, 8 to 12 years of age, with frequently relapsing nephrosis. Four patients with osteoporosis, 10 to 14 years of age, were treated only with 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 and served as control subjects. Both groups were treated with an almost equal amount of glucocorticoids previously and during this study period. Bone mineral content of the spine was measured by a quantitative computed tomographic technique. The bone mineral content was preserved in both cortical and spongeous areas of the vertebrae during the 16-month period in the calcitonin-treated group but was decreased significantly in the control group. Urinary hydroxyproline and calcium excretion decreased significantly in the calcitonin-treated group. The serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations and the parathyroid function did not change significantly in either group. We conclude that calcitonin suppressed bone resorption and might be useful for the long-term treatment of osteoporosis, in combination with 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3, in children with nephrosis requiring long-term glucocorticoid therapy. 
Sudden unexpected death due to papillary fibroma of the aortic valve. Report of a case and review of the literature. The case of the sudden unexpected death of a 21-year-old man due to embolization of segments of an aortic valve papillary fibroma to the left main and anterior descending coronary artery is presented. The literature regarding cardiac papillary fibroma is reviewed with particular reference to those cases associated with sudden death. 
Adrenergic regulation of (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity in proximal tubules of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Increased renal nerve activity and sodium retention have been implicated in the development of hypertension in genetically transmitted forms of this disease. The present studies were designed to investigate the relationship between renal nerve integrity and renal proximal tubule (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity of basolateral membranes (BLMs) enriched from proximal tubules of five-week-old SHR was greater, 328.6 +/- 18.9 nmol Pi/mg protein.min, than in age-matched genetic controls rats (Wistar-Kyoto, WKY, rats), 262.3 +/- 34.6 nmol Pi/mg protein.min (P less than 0.02). There was no detectable difference in (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity of 13-week-old SHR and WKY rats. Prior renal denervation was associated with a reduction in proximal tubule basolateral membrane (BLM) (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity, 316.8 +/- 23.8 to 223.1 +/- 23.9 nmol Pi/mg protein/min (P less than 0.02), in five-week SHR. However, denervation had no effect on renal (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity in either WKY rats, nor did sham-denervation in SHR. In addition, exogenous norepinephrine, 1 microM, produced a more pronounced stimulation of (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity in basolateral membranes from SHR as opposed to WKY controls (40.2% vs. 28.7%). Therefore, renal nerve integrity and exogenous catecholamines have a greater stimulatory influence on proximal tubule (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity in the early stages (prior to 5 weeks) of the development of hypertension in SHR than in age-matched WKY rats. 
Postmortem studies of the heart in three fatal cases of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To examine the hearts of individuals who died from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan, with particular attention paid to the coronary arteries, the neural structures, and the conduction system of the heart because of reported terminal disturbances of cardiac rhythm and conduction. STUDY MATERIAL: Three hearts fixed in neutral formalin and well preserved with all the relevant areas of conduction system intact. METHODS: Light microscopic examination of subserial sections of the sinus node, atrioventricular node and His bundle, coronary chemoreceptor and regional nerves, ganglia, and small coronary arteries. Routine stains used were Goldner trichrome and Verhoeff-van Gieson. RESULTS: Arterial abnormalities were numerous and primarily of two types: focal fibromuscular dysplasia causing moderate to severe narrowing, as well as endarteritis and panarteritis. Extensive examples of neuritis and ganglionitis were present throughout the heart, including the conduction system, where arterial abnormalities were also abundant. In the coronary chemoreceptor there were both old and new lesions comprising focal inflammation with degeneration as well as older areas of fibrotic destruction. Within the sinus node, areas of dense fibrosis replaced all nodal tissue. These abnormalities were similar in nature and extent in all three hearts. CONCLUSIONS: The pathologic lesions present in the coronary arteries, neural structures, and conduction system of the heart in patients who died from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome provide a suitable anatomic substrate for substantial cardiac electrical instability, including the occurrence of sudden death. In cases of unexplained cardiac electrical instability or sudden unexpected death an inquiry should be made about previous use of L-tryptophan. In patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, the possibility of cardiac electrical instability should be considered as part of long-range clinical management. 
Plasma levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1, beta-thromboglobulin, and fibrinopeptide A before, during, and after treatment of acute myocardial infarction with alteplase. Plasma levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1), beta-thromboglobulin (beta TG), and fibrinopeptide A (FPA) were followed over 24 hours in 30 patients treated with alteplase for acute myocardial infarction. Samples were taken at baseline (T Oh), after 90 minutes (under alteplase, no heparin, T 1.5h), after 120 minutes (under alteplase and heparin, T 2h), 30 minutes after thrombolytic therapy (T 3.5h), as well as 12 hours (T 12h) and 24 hours (T 24h) after baseline. PAI-1 antigen levels (55 +/- 9 ng/mL at T Oh, mean +/- SEM) decreased to 35 +/- 5 (T 1.5h) and 40 +/- 6 (T 2h) ng/mL under alteplase, before increasing to 84 +/- 22 (T 3.5h), 130 +/- 30 (T 12h), and 64 +/- 7 (T 24h) ng/mL after therapy, P less than .001. A high baseline PAI-1 activity (18 +/- 3 ng/mL) decreased to 2.0 +/- 0.4 (T 1.5h) and 1.7 +/- 0.2 (T 2h) under alteplase and increased to 32 +/- 5 (T 12h) and 19 +/- 3 (T 24h) ng/mL after therapy (P less than .0001). beta TG levels (339 +/- 105 ng/mL at T Oh) decreased to 203 +/- 48 (T 2h), 154 +/- 51 (T 3.5h), 187 +/- 40 (T 12h), and 142 +/- 32 (T 24h) ng/mL under heparin (P less than .01). FPA levels (34 +/- 9 ng/mL at T Oh) increased to 85 +/- 15 ng/mL under alteplase alone (T 1.5h) and normalized under heparin (11 +/- 4, 6 +/- 2, 4 +/- 2, and 3 +/- 1 ng/mL at T 2h, T 3.5h, T 12h, and T 24h, respectively). A high level of FPA at T 3.5h correlated with reocclusion (33 +/- 12 ng/mL, n = 4 v 2.9 +/- 0.5 ng/mL, n = 21, P less than .005). We conclude that plasma levels of PAI-1 antigen as well as activity markedly increase after alteplase therapy of acute myocardial infarction. The high activity of PAI-1 and decreasing beta TG levels suggest that platelets do not contribute significantly to this phenomenon. The marked increase of FPA levels under recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator alone and its normalization under heparin emphasize the important role of concomitant anticoagulation in controlling further intravasal fibrin generation under alteplase. 
Coupling between the heart and arterial system in heart failure. A number of experimental studies have demonstrated the optimal coupling between the ventricle and arterial load, under physiologic and pathologic circumstances, directed to produce maximal stroke work. We investigated matching of the ventricular properties, quantified by the slope of end-systolic pressure-volume relationship, with arterial load properties, expressed by the slope of end-systolic pressure-stroke volume relationship. In normal subjects, with ejection fraction of greater than or equal to 60%, ventricular elastance was nearly twice as large as arterial elastance. This condition affords maximal mechanical efficiency. In patients with moderate heart failure, with ejection fraction of 40-59%, ventricular elastance was almost equal to arterial elastance. This condition affords maximal stroke work from a given end-diastolic volume. In patients with severe heart failure, with ejection fraction of less than 40%, ventricular elastance was less than half of arterial elastance, which resulted in increased potential energy and decreased work efficiency. Ventriculoarterial coupling is normally set toward higher left ventricular work efficiency, whereas in patients with moderate cardiac dysfunction, ventricular and arterial properties are matched, in order to maximize stroke work at the expense of work efficiency. Neither the stroke work nor work efficiency is near maximum for patients with severe cardiac dysfunction. 
Nutrition and metabolism in sepsis and multisystem organ failure. Sepsis and organ failure produce profound metabolic changes that contribute to hepatic and musculoskeletal failure. When multiple organ failure develops, the mortality rate is high, and therapy is unlikely to be effective unless the causative process (e.g., infection, low cardiac output) can be eliminated. Thus, the prevention of multiple organ failure and the prevention or early treatment of infection are paramount. Organ and nutritional support to prevent complications is necessary. The gastrointestinal tract should be used for nutrition whenever possible with a blenderized regular diet with fiber, glutamine, and short-chain fatty acids to protect and preserve the gut. If parenteral nutrition is necessary, special solutions may be necessary for the liver, kidneys, or lungs. If not, protein with 45% branched-chain amino acid, medium- and short-chain triglycerides, glutamine supplementation, and carbohydrates seem best. Other substances are being evaluated that may be helpful in nutrition and organ support, including arginine, xylitol, growth hormone, and anabolic steroids. Multiple organ failure should be prevented, if at all possible, by stopping or controlling the injury, removing as much necrotic tissue as possible, improving blood flow and oxygen consumption, supporting metabolism, and preventing infection or treating it early and adequately. Nutritional support plays a key role in preventing metabolic failure. 
Reducing postischemic paraplegia using conjugated superoxide dismutase. Paraplegia after thoracic aortic aneurysm repair has an incidence of 2.2% to 24%. Oxygen-derived free radicals after reperfusion of an ischemic spinal cord may be partly responsible for neuronal destruction. We studied the effects of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD), a free radical scavenger, as a way of increasing spinal cord tolerance to ischemia. Thirty rabbits underwent 40 minutes of aortic occlusion (a known model of paraplegia). Ten of these animals received 25,000 U/kg of PEG-SOD 24 hours before aortic occlusion and two additional doses of 10,000 U/kg, one before and one subsequent to spinal ischemia. Ten animals received superoxide dismutase in the same dosages as those receiving PEG-SOD. Ten control animals received placebo. All animals were studied for 96 hours, at which time a final neurological examination was performed and the results were recorded. Of the 10 animals treated with PEG-SOD, 2 were completely paralyzed whereas 8 had less (7) or no (1) neurological impairment. Eight of the 10 control animals and 9 of the 10 animals receiving superoxide dismutase were completely paralyzed. None of the control animals or animals receiving superoxide dismutase had a normal neurological examination (p less than or equal to 0.05). Treatment with PEG-SOD before and during occlusion increased the rabbit spinal cord tolerance to a 40-minute ischemic insult. Scavenging free radicals may lessen experimental spinal cord injury. 
Staple closure of the hypopharynx after diverticulectomy and total laryngectomy. The use of stapling devices to close hypopharyngeal defects was first published in 1969 but the technique does not seem to have gained much popularity among head and neck surgeons. Fifty-nine hypopharyngeal defects were closed using a linear stapler between January, 1984, and April, 1989, at the Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery of the University Hospital of Zurich. Twenty closures were performed following resection of hypopharyngeal diverticula, 39 following wide field laryngectomy. A total of 10 salivary fistulae was observed: 2 after diverticulectomy (10%), 3 after laryngectomy in nonirradiated patients (11%), and 5 after laryngectomy in irradiated patients (45%). These fistula rates are comparable with average rates quoted in the literature. Only after laryngectomy for radiation failure was the fistula rate unusually high. No other complications were seen that could have been attributed to this type of pharyngeal closure. Closure of a hypopharyngeal defect with a stapler is easier and faster than with traditional suture methods. Provided the patient has not been previously irradiated, staple closure of the hypopharynx appears to be as reliable as closure by standard techniques and can be safely recommended. 
Role for tumor necrosis factor as mediator of lung injury following lower torso ischemia. Ischemia and reperfusion of the ischemic lower torso lead to a neutrophil- (PMN) dependent lung injury characterized by PMN sequestration and permeability edema. This mimics the injury seen after infusion of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF), a potent activator of PMN and endothelium. This study tests whether TNF is a mediator of the lung injury after lower torso ischemia. Anesthetized rats underwent 4 h of bilateral hindlimb tourniquet ischemia, followed by reperfusion for 10 min, 30 min, 1, 2, 3, and 4 h (n = 6 for each time point). Quantitative lung histology indicated progressive sequestration of PMN in the lungs, 25 +/- 3 (SE) PMN/10 high-power fields (HPF) 10 min after reperfusion vs. 20 +/- 2 PMN/10 HPF in sham animals (NS), increasing to 53 +/- 5 PMN/10 HPF after 4 h vs. 23 +/- 3 PMN/10 HPF in sham animals (P less than 0.01). There was lung permeability, shown by increasing protein accumulation in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, which 4 h after reperfusion was 599 +/- 91 vs. 214 +/- 35 micrograms/ml in sham animals (P less than 0.01). Similarly, there was edema, shown by the lung wet-to-dry weight ratio, which increased by 4 h to 4.70 +/- 0.12 vs. 4.02 +/- 0.17 in sham animals (P less than 0.01). There was generation of leukotriene B4 in BAL fluid (720 +/- 140 vs. 240 +/- 40 pg/ml, P less than 0.01), and in three of six rats tested at this time TNF was detected in plasma, with a mean value of 167 pg/ml. TNF was not detectable in any sham animal. 
Anaesthesia for a patient with giant axonal neuropathy. Giant axonal neuropathy is a generalised disorder of cytoplasmic intermediate filaments which particularly involves the peripheral and central nervous systems. In this paper we describe a child with giant axonal neuropathy and discuss the anaesthetic management in the light of the pathology and physiology of the condition. 
Distribution of thymic tissue in the mediastinal adipose tissue. The distribution of thymic tissue in the anterior mediastinal, retrocarinal, and preaortic fat was examined histologically in 27 autopsy subjects. Thymic tissue was found in the anterior mediastinal fat in 12 subjects (44.4%), in the retrocarinal fat in two (7.4%), and in the preaortic fat in none. The finding of ectopic thymic tissue in these areas has not been reported previously, would appear to be surgically inaccessible via a median sternotomy, and may be responsible in part for some of the failures of thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. 
Jaundice and cholestasis. Some common and uncommon causes. Jaundiced patients may not always be as sick as they look, and cholestatic patients may be quite ill but not yet jaundiced. There is variability in presentation of cholestasis, and jaundice may be intrahepatic or extrahepatic and acute or chronic. Even though the diagnosis of jaundice can be elusive, an unnecessarily exhaustive search for a cause should be avoided, because some tests are not without dangers. Dr Gordon describes many possible causes, some of which are rare but are still worth consideration. 
Colorectal cancer in ulcerative colitis. Influence of anatomical extent and age at onset on colitis-cancer interval. We have examined the age at onset of both ulcerative colitis and colitis-associated colorectal cancer in 100 patients seen at Mount Sinai Hospital between 1959 and 1988. There were 85 patients with extensive colitis and 15 with left sided colitis. There was a strong direct correlation between the age at onset of ulcerative colitis and age at diagnosis of cancer (p less than 0.0001); this correlation was found both in patients with extensive colitis (p less than 0.0001) and in those with left sided colitis (p less than 0.005). Patients with left sided colitis developed both their colitis and their cancers about a decade later than did those with extensive disease, but the mean duration of colitis before diagnosis of cancer was virtually the same (about 21 years) in both groups, irrespective of the age at onset of disease. 
Bilateral chylothorax. A 2.5-kg female developed bilateral chylothoraces 10 days after surgery for coarctation of the aorta. Initial conservative management consisted of intermittent positive pressure ventilation, drainage of chylous fluid and enteral feeding, but there was no diminution in loss of chyle. Ligation of the thoracic duct and pleurectomy were performed subsequently to reduce the large daily losses of chyle, amounting to nearly three times the child's circulating blood volume. Brawny oedema of the right upper quadrant of the body developed rapidly after the duct ligation and right pleurectomy. A further period of conservative treatment was required before the latter complication resolved. The literature relating to this iatrogenic complication and to fluid and nutritional losses in paediatric chylothorax is reviewed and discussed. 
Diagnosis and treatment of headache in the elderly. The diagnosis and management of some causes of headache in the elderly are reviewed. Etiologic theories have been presented for each condition. Treatment modalities include pharmacologic, nonpharmacologic, and surgical therapies. The treatment course set forth in this article can help the clinician provide proper relief for the patient in pain. 
Congenitally corrected transposition and Ebstein's anomaly of the systemic atrioventricular valve: association with aortic arch obstruction. Aortic arch abnormalities are uncommon in patients with congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries. Over a 20-year period, 10 patients with congenitally corrected transposition and Ebstein's anomaly of the systemic atrioventricular (AV) valve were identified. Five neonates had severe systemic AV valve regurgitation with severe coarctation of the aorta (n = 4) or aortic atresia (n = 1) and presented with heart failure. Four died in the neonatal period and one who had coarctation repair died 7 months postoperatively. The remaining five patients with congenitally corrected transposition and Ebstein's anomaly had mild left AV valve regurgitation; none of these had aortic arch obstruction. In neonates who have coexisting Ebstein's anomaly of the systemic AV valve and congenitally corrected transposition, obstruction to aortic arch flow is common. Severe systemic AV valve regurgitation with a morphologic systemic right ventricle may have contributed to low anterograde flow in the ascending aorta prenatally and thereby to the aortic arch abnormality. 
Adenocarcinoma: an unusual presentation. A young pregnant woman had facial swelling in the upper nasal region. This was initially considered to be lymphedema in view of a history of past severe facial acne. A biopsy was done when the lesion progressed; the specimen showed adenocarcinoma. This responded well to radiotherapy, the favorable response being maintained for more than 24 months. 
Indications for modification of coexisting dual atrioventricular node pathways in patients undergoing surgical ablation of accessory atrioventricular connections Concomitant susceptibility to atrioventricular (AV) node reentrant tachycardia has been demonstrated in certain patients having reentrant tachycardia utilizing accessory AV connections. For those patients undergoing accessory connection ablation, AV node surgical modification may be warranted during the same operative procedure. To assess indications for a combined operative procedure, this study evaluated potential predictors of subsequent spontaneous AV node reentrant tachycardia in patients undergoing ablation of accessory AV connections. Among 62 consecutive patients undergoing surgical ablation of an accessory AV connection, 13 (21%) manifested dual AV node pathways. The latter were identified preoperatively in five patients (four with concealed and one with bidirectional accessory connections) and postoperatively in seven (all seven with bidirectional accessory connections). In one patient with a bidirectional accessory connection, dual AV node pathways could not be demonstrated preoperatively, but AV node reentrant tachycardia was induced. Operative ablation of an accessory connection was successful in all patients. However, postoperatively, 2 of the 13 patients had inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia, 5 had AV node "echo" beats and 6 had no inducible arrhythmia. During 26 +/- 7 months of follow-up study, the two patients with inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia postoperatively had symptomatic AV node reentrant tachycardia. In addition, the one patient with inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia preoperatively had recurrence of this tachycardia 4 months after attempted surgical modification of the AV node. Consequently, although dual AV node pathways appear to be common in patients undergoing surgical ablation of an accessory AV connection (21%), only a small group (3 of 13) of these patients are at risk for subsequent clinical AV node reentrant tachycardia. 
Acid secretory responses and parietal cell sensitivity following duodenal ulcer healing with omeprazole, sucralfate, and Maalox. Acid secretory responses and parietal cell sensitivity (PCS) have been studied in 21 duodenal ulcer patients before and after successful treatment with omeprazole (n = 7), sucralfate (n = 7), or Maalox (n = 7). The second study was carried out 3 days after documented healing and withdrawal of treatment in the sucralfate- and Maalox-treated groups and 14 days after documented healing and withdrawal of treatment in the omeprazole-treated patients. Acid output (mmol/hour) was measured as basal secretion, and in response to 0.1 microgram/kg/hour pentagastrin (low-dose) and 6.0 micrograms/kg/hour pentagastrin (high-dose) stimulation. PCS was calculated as the ratio of low dose:high dose acid output (expressed as a percentage). Ulcer healing with sucralfate resulted in significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in low-dose acid output from 36.4% (13.2-51.0) (median [range]) to 8.4% (3.2-45.4) mmol/hour and PCS from 69.1% (44.9-91.4) to 22.0% (16.0-85.6), whereas no significant decreases in any of the measured parameters were noted following ulcer healing with Maalox. Ulcer healing with omeprazole resulted in significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in basal acid output from 6.3 (1.5-22.9) (median [range]) to 2.2 (0-6.9) mmol/hour, and low-dose acid output from 31.0 (6.0-58.0) to 23.0 (1.4-44.8) mmol/hour. These findings suggest that acid secretory responses following ulcer healing vary according to the therapeutic agent used. 
Patients with duodenitis have gastric secretory and motor functions like those of duodenal ulcer patients: results of a short-term treatment with ranitidine. Gastric acid secretion, gastric emptying of solids, and the effects of short-term treatment with 300 mg ranitidine at bedtime were evaluated in symptomatic patients with endoscopically and histologically proven duodenitis. The patients investigated had basal and pentagastrin-stimulated gastric acid hypersecretion, but normal gastric emptying times. Ranitidine brought about a significant improvement of endoscopic and histological features compared with the pretreatment findings. Endoscopic but not histological improvement was significantly better than with placebo. Furthermore, ranitidine brought about a significant reduction of weekly antacid consumption compared with placebo. Both ranitidine and placebo induced significant symptomatic improvement over basal conditions, but the difference between the two treatments did not reach statistical significance. Gastric secretory and motor functions, as well as the response to therapy, were similar in duodenitis patients with and without previous history of duodenal ulcer; the only exception was in antacid consumption, which was higher in the placebo group in those with past evidence of ulcer disease. Our results suggest that duodenitis patients have secretory and motor functions similar to those of duodenal ulcer patients. Therefore, further trials on large populations of duodenitis patients with antisecretory drugs are justified. 
Differential effects of heptanol, potassium, and tetrodotoxin on reentrant ventricular tachycardia around a fixed obstacle in anisotropic myocardium BACKGROUND. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that electrical uncoupling and depression of the fast sodium channels have differential effects on propagation of the electrical impulse relative to the fiber orientation. METHODS AND RESULTS. In a model of reentrant ventricular tachycardia (VT) (mean cycle length, 144 +/- 13 msec) around a ring of anisotropic myocardium in 10 Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts, the effects of extracellular K+ concentration [( K+]o) and heptanol were studied. [K+]o and heptanol each had a dose-dependent effect on VT cycle length. However, high [K+]o slowed the VT mainly by depressing longitudinal conduction, whereas heptanol preferentially depressed transverse conduction. The ratio between longitudinal and transverse conduction velocities progressively decreased with high [K+]o and progressively increased with heptanol. Heptanol terminated VT at a mean concentration of 3.5 +/- 0.5 mM. The cycle length before termination was 446 +/- 120 msec (p less than 0.001). In eight of 10 experiments, termination occurred by failure of conduction during transverse propagation. VT terminated at a mean [K+]o of 11.6 +/- 1.8 mM. The cycle length before termination was 493 +/- 341 msec (p less than 0.01). In seven of 10 cases, termination occurred by failure of conduction during longitudinal propagation. In the remaining five episodes (two with heptanol and three with high [K+]o), termination occurred by collision of the reentrant beat with an antidromic impulse being reflected within the ring. In a separate series of six hearts, tetrodotoxin was administered during VT. Like high [K+]o, tetrodotoxin prolonged the cycle length of the VT by preferentially slowing longitudinal conduction, and VT was terminated by longitudinal block. CONCLUSIONS. During reentrant VT, electrical uncoupling of cells by heptanol or modification of active membrane properties by high [K+]o or tetrodotoxin has a differential depressing effect on propagation of the impulse relative to the fiber orientation. 
Effects of alterations in pulmonary function and sleep variables on survival in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Breathing abnormalities and nocturnal hypoventilation occur in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A prospective study was undertaken to determine the relationship of pulmonary function test abnormalities with quality of sleep and survival in 21 patients with ALS. Results of spirometry including determination of maximal respiratory pressures and arterial blood gases were compared with several formal polysomnographic variables and then also with 18-month survival. The patients had mild to moderate pulmonary function deficits, but the quality of sleep was best related to age (mean age, 58.5 years). The results of pulmonary function tests and arterial blood gas measurements did not correlate well with the presence of nocturnal breathing events or survival time, but the maximal inspiratory pressure was 86% sensitive for predicting the presence of a nocturnal oxygen saturation nadir of 80% or less and 100% sensitive for predicting 18-month survival. Although obstructive breathing events occurred, the primary explanation for the decline in nocturnal oxygen saturation was hypoventilation. We conclude that routine pulmonary function tests may be useful for screening for reductions in nocturnal oxygen saturation and also may have prognostic value. Further studies may determine whether treatment of nocturnal hypoventilation will have an effect on survival in patients with ALS who have breathing impairment. 
Transition of Ki-67 index of uterine cervical tumors during radiation therapy. Immunohistochemical study. Histopathologic and Ki-67-staining features of cancer cells were investigated in biopsy specimens before and during radiation therapy in 29 patients with cervical squamous cell carcinoma. No morphologic changes were observed up to doses of 540 cGy. A few intact cancer cells remained up to doses of 2700 cGy. Moderate changes in the cancer cells were noticed in patients who received 900 cGy or more, i.e., multinuclei, swollen nuclei and cytoplasms, and prominent large nucleoli. At doses of 1800 cGy or greater, many cancer nests had severely damaged cancer cells with features such as cytolysis, karyolysis, karyorrhexis, pyknosis, and bizarre giant cells. There was no mitosis in the cells of patients who received doses greater than 1800 cGy. The Ki-67-positive cancer cells showed diffuse nuclear-stainings and dot-stainings before radiation therapy. Radiation doses more than 900 cGy changed the staining pattern of the Ki-67 antibody; large irregular spot-stainings and ring-stainings were observed predominantly. The Ki-67 index initially increased with the radiation dose; the mean Ki-67 indices before radiation therapy and at radiation doses of 180 cGy, 540 cGy, and 900 cGy were 41%, 50%, 63%, and 68%, respectively. The indices decreased when the dose was increased further, and they were 39% and 20% at doses of 1800 cGy and 2700 cGy, respectively. Possible explanations, including recruitment of quiescent cells, for the change in Ki-67 staining are discussed. 
Posterior fossa intracranial hemorrhage in infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: sonographic findings. Posterior fossa hemorrhage was documented by autopsy in five infants who had been treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation over a 5-year-period. In all five cases, the diagnosis was made prospectively by cranial sonography. Sonographic findings were compared with those in a control group of 15 infants with normal posterior fossae at autopsy. The following sonographic abnormalities were exhibited in neonates with posterior fossae hemorrhage: loss of definition of the cerebellum and fourth ventricle on midline sagittal images, heterogeneous cerebellar parenchyma, focal hypoechoic lesions, ventricular dilatation, and tentorial abnormalities. Bright foci inferior to the third ventricle were seen in four neonates in the normal control group. These foci measured 5-10 mm in diameter. One cranial sonogram was falsely interpreted as showing a posterior fossa hemorrhage because of prominent echoes in the interpeduncular cistern. Infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation are at risk for developing posterior fossa hemorrhage. Awareness of sonographic signs and potential pitfalls in the interpretation of posterior fossa hemorrhage is important for early and accurate recognition of these unusual and sometimes treatable hemorrhages. 
Positive role of Clostridium difficile infection in diarrhea in infants and children. A retrospective review of children with Clostridium difficile infection and diarrhea identified 43 patients. Fifteen (35%) had immunoglobulins below the normal range for age, and typified those with transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy, because all increased their levels over the following 12 months. The age of those with hypogammaglobulinemia was significantly younger (p less than 0.01), averaging 18.8 months, than those with normal immunoglobulins who had a mean age of 4.6 yr. The number with recurrent C. difficile infection was significantly greater (p less than 0.001) in the hypogammaglobulinemic group than in those with normal immunoglobulins (46% vs 18%). Eleven children were identified who had C. difficile toxin in the stool after antibiotic therapy, but who had no diarrhea at the time of study. All had normal immunoglobulins. Control patients (20 without and 40 with diarrhea) had no evidence of C. difficile infection, and all but three had normal immunoglobulins. Three (7%) of those with diarrhea had IgA deficiency, and all had a diagnosis of milk protein allergy. These data suggest that immunoglobulin values be obtained in infants and children who have problematic C. difficile diarrhea in order to identify disorders of immunoglobulin synthesis which may be the underlying cause of repeated upper respiratory disease requiring antibiotic usage. 
Variable regression of experimental bronchial preneoplasia during carcinogenesis. It has been thought that squamous severe atypical metaplasia of the bronchus is reliably precancerous. The canine subcutaneous bronchial autograft model for studying the progression of epidermoid carcinogenesis (normal----regular squamous metaplasia----mild, moderate, and severe atypical metaplasia----squamous cell carcinoma) provides evidence that severe atypical metaplasia of the bronchial epithelium is reversible. Among 148 subcutaneous bronchial autografts that had serial sampling of the epithelium and exposure to implants of methylcholanthrene, severe atypical metaplasia was noted in 28 that received only a single implant. During the total carcinogen exposure (median 24.5 months), 9 of 28 (32%) developed squamous cell cancer, and 19 of 28 (68%) regressed toward normal. Severe atypical metaplasia was noted in 34 subcutaneous bronchial autografts that received two or more carcinogen implants: epidermoid cancer developed in 26 of 34 (76.5%), and regression toward or to normal occurred in 8 of 34 (23.5%). Severe atypical metaplasia was not detected in 53 subcutaneous bronchial autografts: 19 that received only a single implant and 34 that received two or more implants. Progression and regression occurred among these subcutaneous bronchial autografts in proportions similar to those found in subcutaneous bronchial autografts wherein severe atypical metaplasia was seen. Among 33 subcutaneous bronchial autografts initially studied after 6 months of exposure to carcinogen, progression to severe atypical metaplasia was seen 3 months later in 19 of 33 that had additional exposure; in the same interval regression of epithelial abnormalities occurred in 14 of 33 subcutaneous bronchial autografts that had no additional exposure (p less than 0.05). We have presented evidence that severe atypical metaplasia includes at least three cell populations: one committed to cancer without further stimulus, one that regresses despite further carcinogen exposure, and one that requires additional carcinogen to progress to cancer. At least in this model, severe atypical metaplasia is not inexorably precancerous. The subcutaneous bronchial autograft model is suitable for seeking biologic indicators of irreversibility. 
Spinal cord ischemia after resection of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms: MR findings in 24 patients. MR images of the thoracic spinal cord were made in 24 patients who developed signs and symptoms of spinal cord ischemia or infarction following surgery for a thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. Findings consisted primarily of four different patterns of signal abnormalities in the distribution of the anterior spinal artery. These abnormalities were identified as types A-D, depending on the degree of involvement of the gray matter and surrounding white matter. We found good correlation between the distribution of the signal abnormalities in the cord, the severity of the neurologic deficits, and the clinical outcome. MR is the imaging method of choice for diagnosing spinal cord ischemia or infarction. A thorough knowledge of the spinal cord arterial territories is crucial for characterizing ischemic MR signal abnormalities and for differentiating them from other causes of myelopathy. 
Predicting chemically induced duodenal ulcer and adrenal necrosis with classification trees. Binary tree-structured statistical classification algorithms and properties of 56 model alkyl nucleophiles were brought to bear on two problems of experimental pharmacology and toxicology. Each rat of a learning sample of 745 was administered one compound and autopsied to determine the presence of duodenal ulcer or adrenal hemorrhagic necrosis. The cited statistical classification schemes were then applied to these outcomes and 67 features of the compounds to ascertain those characteristics that are associated with biologic activity. For predicting duodenal ulceration, dipole moment, melting point, and solubility in octanol are particularly important, while for predicting adrenal necrosis, important features include the number of sulfhydryl groups and double bonds. These methods may constitute inexpensive but powerful ways to screen untested compounds for possible organ-specific toxicity. Mechanisms for the etiology and pathogenesis of the duodenal and adrenal lesions are suggested, as are additional avenues for drug design. 
Role of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis in intraabdominal abscess formation in the rat. Our concept of the pathogenesis of acute salpingitis and advanced pelvic infection, such as tuboovarian abscess, is evolving. Although Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis are thought to play a significant role in acute pelvic inflammatory disease, other microorganisms, such as aerobes and anaerobes, have repeatedly been reported to play a significant role, also, particularly in the patient with advanced disease. A study was designed to evaluate the pathogenesis, and particularly any synergistic role, of some aerobes and anaerobes with N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis abscess formation. Using the rat model developed by Weinstein and Onderdonk, the study demonstrated that N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis alone do not produce abscesses. However, when combined with facultative or anaerobic bacteria, synergism with abscess formation is noted frequently. The data support the hypothesis that N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis initiate infection and that aerobic and anaerobic bacteria act synergistically to produce abscesses. In addition, microorganisms not inoculated were found to be recruited into the infectious process. The organisms may gain access to the peritoneal cavity via the lower genital tract or from transmucosal migration from the intestinal flora. 
Effect of clonidine on gallbladder contraction and small bowel transit time in insulin-treated diabetics. Cholelithiasis is more prevalent in diabetics than in nondiabetics. Gallbladder dysmotility is supposed to be one of the causative factors. Reduced alpha-adrenergic tone has been demonstrated in the enterocytes of diabetic rats, and its correction by clonidine might explain the beneficial effect that the drug has on diabetic diarrhea. We therefore surmised that diabetic cholecystoparesis could also be due to alpha-adrenergic alterations. To test this hypothesis, we studied gallbladder contractions by real time ultrasonography, and small bowel transit time by lactulose hydrogen breath test, in 13 insulin-requiring diabetics before and after administration of the alpha-adrenergic stimulant clonidine (0.3 mg orally). That plasma levels were sufficient was evidenced indirectly by a fall in blood pressure. Clonidine significantly improved the rate of emptying (0.0193 +/- 0.00057/min vs. 0.0318 +/- 0.0027/min; p less than 0.005), but not the fasting and residual gallbladder volumes. Small bowel transit time was significantly prolonged after clonidine (169 +/- 17 min vs. 208 +/- 17; p less than 0.05). These results suggest that 1) reduced alpha-adrenergic tone corrected by clonidine may be present in the diabetic gallbladder, and 2) clonidine's antidiarrheal effect might be explained, at least in part, by a prolongation of the small bowel transit time. 
Relation between myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor and left ventricular function in patients with left ventricular volume overload due to chronic mitral regurgitation with or without aortic regurgitation. The relation between myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor and left ventricular (LV) function was studied in 10 patients, aged 41 to 61 years (average 51), with LV volume overload mainly due to chronic mitral regurgitation. Beta-adrenergic receptors were examined using crude membrane in LV papillary muscle obtained at mitral valve replacement. Cardiac function was evaluated at preoperative cardiac catheterization with the interval to surgery of 1 to 33 months (average 7). Beta-adrenergic receptor density in 7 patients with New York Heart Association class II or III congestive heart failure was higher than that in 3 patients with class IV heart failure (59 +/- 19 vs 37 +/- 3 fmol/mg protein, p less than 0.05). Beta-adrenergic receptor density showed a positive correlation with end-systolic stress/end-systolic volume index ratio, the index for contractile function (p less than 0.005). Other parameters such as cardiac index, pulmonary artery wedge pressure and LV ejection fraction had no significant correlation to beta-adrenergic receptor. The results demonstrated that increases in symptom and LV dysfunction, particularly of the contractile state, was associated with decreased myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor density from possible down-regulation in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation with or without aortic regurgitation. 
Serum neuron-specific enolase levels after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We examined serum levels of neuron-specific enolase by enzyme immunoassay in 29 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Serum neuron-specific enolase levels were significantly higher in patients with a poor neurological status than in patients with a good neurological status on admission, and the greater the amount of subarachnoid blood, the higher the serum neuron-specific enolase level. Patients with a good outcome had low serum neuron-specific enolase levels throughout their courses. Serum neuron-specific enolase levels increased with development of delayed ischemic neurological deficits and, especially in poor outcome patients, high levels persisted until 3 weeks after the subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Dopaminergic abnormalities in borderline essential hypertensive patients. To explore whether an altered metabolic pathway of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) may be related to some previously observed dopamine abnormalities in borderline hypertension, we measured basal and DOPA-induced (500 mg orally) changes in blood pressure and pulse rate as well as in three hourly plasma and urine samples. We found that borderline hypertensive patients compared with controls 1) showed a higher baseline urinary excretion of methoxytyramine, a marker of exocytotic dopamine release, with a greater DOPA-induced decrease of systolic blood pressure without reflex tachycardia; 2) had in response to DOPA a blunted plasma DOPA and free dopamine increase but an accentuated plasma dopamine sulfate and urinary DOPAC excretion; and 3) eliminated comparable quantities of dopamine in urine despite a lower rise in the glomerular DOPA load. Furthermore, although DOPA elicited natriuresis in both groups, its effect was greater in borderline hypertensive patients, who lacked the urinary sodium correlation with urinary dopamine excretion seen in control subjects. These data are compatible with increased basal exocytotic dopamine release and accelerated neuronal and renal (extraneuronal) dopamine generation from administered DOPA in borderline hypertension. The DOPA-induced hypernatriuresis exceeding augmented dopamine in borderline hypertensive patients, contrasting with the urinary sodium and dopamine correlation in control subjects, suggests that DOPA induced an additional natriuresis in borderline hypertensive patients by a decrease in renal sympathetic tone because of its central inhibition of sympathetic outflow, which also may account for the absence of reflex tachycardia. 
Amantadine toxicity presenting with complex ventricular ectopy and hallucinations. Amantadine hydrochloride is a commonly prescribed drug with a narrow therapeutic-to-toxic range. Toxicity is related to the anticholinergic properties of the drug and primarily affects the cardiovascular, central nervous, and respiratory systems. We report the case of an adolescent who ingested 1.3 grams of amantadine and developed complex ventricular arrhythmias and altered mental status. The arrhythmias were completely suppressed with intravenous lidocaine. This case supports the hypothesis that lidocaine is effective for treatment of ventricular arrhythmias secondary to amantadine toxicity. 
Flash lamp pumped dye laser for rosacea-associated telangiectasia and erythema. The persistence of facial telangiectasis and erythema in patients with rosacea frequently presents a major cosmetic problem. It may also contribute to relapses of papular and pustular lesions. This study of 27 patients treated for their telangiectasia and erythema with a flash lamp pumped dye laser tuned at 585 nm is described. The laser gave good or excellent reduction of telangiectasia and erythema and overall appearance in 24 of the patients with between one and three treatments. In addition, papule and pustule activity was decreased in 59.2% of the patients, with those with the most severe pre-treatment activity having the most significant improvement. It is suggested that this is a useful additional form of treatment that may improve the telangiectasia and erythematous component of rosacea. 
Testing the psychogenic vomiting diagnosis. Four pediatric patients. We treated four patients with chronic vomiting during childhood in whom a tentative diagnosis of psychogenic vomiting was made after an extensive evaluation. In each case, the diagnosis was reconsidered during the course of treatment, as observations about the patients and their response to interventions accumulated. In three instances, these observations did not fit those expected if the diagnosis of psychogenic vomiting was correct. This led to a reexamination of the organic evaluation and the discovery of an undiagnosed organic contribution to the vomiting. In the fourth patient, gastric emptying studies confirmed that there was a strong psychological contribution to the vomiting, and helped to more carefully define this contribution. Family and individual psychotherapy and treatment were aided by the greater clarity in diagnosis. 
Strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels in muscles from patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes. Intramuscular blood vessels were examined with succinate dehydrogenase stain in skeletal muscle biopsy specimens from 6 patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Almost all arteries had large granular deposits with high succinate dehydrogenase activity in their walls. Electron microscopic examination of serial frozen sections of these biopsies showed that the smooth muscle cells of the strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels contained markedly proliferated mitochondria, characteristic of patients with MELAS. The presence of strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels in muscle biopsy specimens provides an important clue toward understanding the underlying pathogenetic mechanism in patients with MELAS as well as another approach to the diagnosis of this disorder. 
Study of human papillomavirus in oral epithelial dysplasia and epidermoid carcinoma in the absence of tobacco and alcohol use. Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are implicated in the etiology of benign and malignant mucosal lesions in both human beings and animals. The oncogenic role of HPV in malignant cervical lesions is well supported by DNA hybridization techniques and epidemiologic studies. However, the role of HPV in oral epithelial dysplasia and epidermoid carcinoma remains speculative. In this study the in situ hybridization technique was used to detect HPV genotypes 6 and 11; 16 and 18; and 31, 33, and 35 in tissue specimens from a study group consisting of 18 patients who were non-tobacco users, or non-tobacco and non-alcohol users, in whom oral epithelial dysplasia and epidermoid carcinoma developed. The hybridization findings were compared with those of a comparable control group of patients with similar lesions who had a history of tobacco and alcohol use. None of the study group cases was reactive with any of the DNA probes. Two cases of the control group showed positive hybridization with HPV DNA probe types 6/11 and 16/18. The implications of these findings are presented and discussed in an attempt to clarify the role of HPV in HPV-associated oral epidermoid carcinomas. 
Abnormal responses to orthostatic testing in children and adolescents with recurrent unexplained syncope. Syncope in the pediatric age group is a frequent event. Most often the cause is readily apparent--i.e., orthostatic hypotension or a vasovagal event. However, there are a large number of children with frequent recurrent unexplained syncope. Neither history, physical examination, nor standard testing reveals a cause. One hundred four consecutive patients were evaluated by orthostatic testing after standard methods found no cause for the recurrent syncope. Forty-seven (44%) of these 104 patients had syncope produced by orthostatic testing. Twenty-six of the 47 (55%) became syncopal within 5 minutes of testing initiation and 21 of the 47 (45%) after 5 to 11 minutes of testing. These patients had an average decrease of 81.5 mm Hg in blood pressure and a 25 beat/min decrease in heart rate. Of 12 control subjects, none lost consciousness with standing times as long as 14 minutes. Pacing was ineffective in preventing syncope, as two patients with a previously implanted normally functioning pacemaker had recurrent syncope clinically. Syncope was also induced by orthostatic testing, with the pacemaker showing a normal response with pacing as the patient became bradycardic. The syncopal event produced by orthostatic testing occurred with a downward blood pressure trend and a narrowing of the pulse pressure without a significant increase in heart rate. This was followed by a sudden drop in blood pressure and then by bradycardia. There is a group of children and adolescents with recurrent unexplained syncope due to abnormal orthostatic control mechanisms. Orthostatic testing appears helpful in identifying these patients. 
Beriberi heart disease in a schizophrenic with an unusual diet. A 37-year-old male presented with peripheral edema of sudden onset. Other signs of heart failure were absent. Subsequent evaluation revealed that the patient was a schizophrenic whose diet consisted almost entirely of carbohydrates. A clinical diagnosis of beriberi heart disease was made and the patient improved dramatically within several days of thiamine supplementation. The presentation of beriberi heart disease in developed countries is discussed. Emphasis is placed on food faddists and psychiatric patients in whom clinical findings may be subtle or absent. 
Reversal of low dose angiotension hypertension by angiotensin receptor antagonists. During acute angiotension II (Ang II) infusion (200 ng/kg/min i.v.) into anesthetized rats, mean arterial pressure rose from 124 +/- 1 to 154 +/- 2 mm Hg. The peptidic Ang II antagonist saralasin lowered arterial pressure in a dose-dependent manner. The maximal decrease in pressure was similar to that observed after the Ang II infusion was discontinued. The nonpeptide Ang II antagonist, 4'-[( 2-butyl-4-chloro-5-(hydroxymethyl)-1H-imidazole-1-yl] methyl) [1,1'-biphenyl] -2-carboxylic acid (SC-48742), lowered acutely elevated arterial pressure to a level similar to that on discontinuation of the angiotensin infusion. Chronic (8 days) infusion of Ang II (20 ng/kg/min i.v.) increased mean arterial pressure from 116 +/- 3 to 164 +/- 7 mm Hg, which then decreased to 121 +/- 6 mm Hg on termination of the infusion. Saralasin (10 micrograms/kg/min, a maximally effective dose during acute angiotensin infusion) decreased mean arterial pressure from 168 +/- 7 to 141 +/- 3 mm Hg, a pressure significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than the pressure observed after the angiotensin infusion was discontinued. SC-48742 decreased mean arterial pressure from 167 +/- 7 to 127 +/- 3 mm Hg, a pressure not statistically different from the minimum pressure observed after the angiotensin infusion was terminated. The mechanism of blood pressure elevation during acute high dose or chronic low dose Ang II infusion is different, the latter having a significant neural component as measured by the response to trimethaphan. The peptidic antagonist saralasin was fully effective in lowering acute angiotensin hypertension but only partially effective during chronic hypertension. 
Radiologic evaluation of esophageal motility: results in 170 patients with chest pain. The role of radiologic evaluation of esophageal motility in patients with chest pain has been studied rarely. Consequently, we compared the results of radiologic and manometric examinations of the esophagus in 170 patients (106 women, 64 men; mean age, 53 years) with chest pain. Manometry, used as the standard, was normal in 114 (67%) patients, and showed the following abnormal diagnoses in the remaining 56 (33%): nonspecific esophageal motility disorder in 27 (48%), nutcracker esophagus in 16 (29%), diffuse esophageal spasm in 11 (20%), and achalasia in two (4%). Radiologic specificity was 93% (106/114) and overall sensitivity only 36% (20/56). Sensitivity increased to 50% by excluding those with nutcracker esophagus, a purely manometric diagnosis. Of the 20 patients in whom nonspecific esophageal motility disorder and diffuse esophageal spasm were undetected on radiologic examination, minimal manometric criteria for diagnosis were available in 18. Our results show that radiologic recognition of normal esophageal peristalsis is excellent. However, the vast majority of patients with chest pain do not appear to have abnormal esophageal motility on radiologic evaluation. 
Junctional tachycardias: anatomic substrate and its significance in ablative procedures. The conduction system was studied by serial section in three patients with intractable supraventricular tachycardias originating from the atrioventricular (AV) junction who died suddenly. The three patients were a 6 month old girl (Case 1), a 5 month old boy (Case 2) and a 22 year old woman (Case 3). The latter had a pacemaker inserted after surgical ablation of the AV node. The heart was hypertrophied and enlarged in all. In Case 1, the AV node was partly within the central fibrous body and there was a left-sided AV bundle with acute necrosis in the summit of the ventricular septum, adjacent to the AV node and bundle. In Case 2, the coronary sinus was displaced cranially close to the central fibrous body, resulting in abnormality of the latter, with entrapment, distortion and division of the AV node and bundle into two distinct components within the central fibrous body. In Case 3, a left-sided AV node was connected to the atrial septum. The right AV node was completely interrupted by sutures and the penetrating and branching bundle and bundle branches were markedly fibrosed. In addition, the atrial septum and summit of the ventricular septum showed marked inflammatory reaction with fibrosis, which was more marked on the right ventricular side. Histologic examination of the conduction system in all three cases demonstrated congenital abnormalities of the AV junction that may be related to the tachycardia. These findings emphasize the need to carefully evaluate the atrial septum and AV junctional area, including the coronary sinus, before ablative procedures are undertaken. 
The Carney complex with ocular signs suggestive of cardiac myxoma. We treated a patient who had ophthalmic findings of the Carney complex that led to a search for and the discovery of asymptomatic cardiac myxoma. Substantial morbidity and mortality are associated with the complex because of the occurrence of cardiac myxoma. Facial and eyelid lentigines, conjunctival and caruncle pigmentation and eyelid pigmentation may precede signs or symptoms of cardiac myxoma. A study of the patient's primary relatives disclosed manifestations of the complex transmitted in a manner consistent with mendelian autosomal dominant inheritance. 
Tuberculosis cutis miliaris disseminata as a manifestation of miliary tuberculosis: literature review and report of a case of recurrent skin lesions. The development of severe adverse reactions to antituberculous drugs in a patient with miliary tuberculosis led to unorthodox, suboptimal antituberculous therapy. The patient's failure to respond to therapy was discovered when acid-fast bacilli were detected in new skin lesions. Such lesions have been described in the literature as tuberculosis cutis miliaris disseminata; 24 cases (in addition to that described herein) have been reported thus far. The patient eventually recovered completely after detection and drainage of a large retrofascial tuberculous abscess. This case illustrates the importance of careful examination of the skin in clinical medicine, as tuberculosis cutis miliaris disseminata is an easily overlooked sign of miliary tuberculosis. 
Importance of ulceration of carotid plaque in determining symptoms of cerebral ischemia. In order to investigate the relationship between carotid plaque morphology and symptoms of cerebral ischemia, a prospective clinicopathological study was performed. Ninety consecutive intact carotid plaques obtained from surgery and 43 carotid plaques from cadavers without symptoms of cerebral ischemia were evaluated. Ulceration and mural thrombus were the only morphologic findings statistically correlated to the presence of hemispheric symptoms (p less than 0.02). Intramural hemorrhage was more common in patients with hemispheric symptoms but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.31). Plaque causing high degree stenosis had a higher incidence of intramural hemorrhage (p = 0.04) and ulceration (p less than 0.02). Ulceration of plaque plays a major role in the onset of hemispheric symptoms. The results of our study support the hypothesis that in the majority of the cases, hemispheric symptoms are embolic in nature. 
Early experience with the smart laser in the treatment of atherosclerotic occlusions. A dual-laser system (helium-cadmium and pulsed dye) capable of continuous computer analysis of spectroscopic characteristics of tissue fluorescence, which can distinguish atherosclerotic plaque from components of normal arterial wall, was used to deliver laser energy to ablate plaque. During a 1-year period this system was used to facilitate balloon angioplasty of short (3 to 17 cm) total occlusions of the superficial femoral or popliteal arteries only when standard angioplasty techniques were ineffective. During the year of the study, in one institution 415 patients were subjected to arteriography of the lower extremities for leg ischemia (397 for limb salvage indications). Standard angioplasty techniques were used in 94 of these patients; 218 patients were unsuitable for standard angioplasty, did not fulfill criteria for "smart" laser treatment, and underwent standard bypass operations. Only 11 patients (plus six others in the second institution) requiring treatment fulfilled the criteria for use of the "smart" laser. In 10 patients the occluding lesion was traversed by the laser wire (diameter 0.021 inch), and luminal patency was effectively restored by balloon angioplasty to greater than or equal to 70% of the most normal-appearing segment of that artery. Satisfactory luminal patency has persisted for 2 to 12 months (mean 6 months) in nine patients; the lesion in the tenth patient restenosed at 3 months. The laser procedure was unsuccessful in all three patients with occlusions greater than 10 cm and in four others. Although there were three microperforations with the laser wire, there were no clinically significant complications. 
The cubital tunnel and ulnar neuropathy. The anatomy of the cubital tunnel and its relationship to ulnar nerve compression is not well documented. In 27 cadaver elbows the proximal edge of the roof of the cubital tunnel was formed by a fibrous band that we call the cubital tunnel retinaculum (CTR). The band is about 4 mm wide, extending from the medial epicondyle to the olecranon, and perpendicular to the flexor carpi ulnaris aponeurosis. Variations in the CTR were classified into four types. In type 0 (n = 1) the CTR was absent. In type Ia (n = 17), the retinaculum was lax in extension and taut in full flexion. In type Ib (n = 6) it was tight in positions short of full flexion (90 degrees to 120 degrees). In type II (n = 3) it was replaced by a muscle, the anconeus epitrochlearis. The CTR appears to be a remnant of the anconeus epitrochlearis muscle and its function is to hold the ulnar nerve in position. Variations in the anatomy of the CTR may explain certain types of ulnar neuropathy. Its absence (type 0 CTR) permits ulnar nerve displacement. Type Ia is normal and does not cause ulnar neuropathy. Type Ib can cause dynamic nerve compression with elbow flexion. Type II may be associated with static compression due to the bulk of the anconeus epitrochlearis muscle. 
Prediction of neurodevelopmental outcome in infants with and without bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In a group of 236 very low birth weight (VLBW) surviving infants, 60 had developed bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in the nursery. When compared with the 176 infants without BPD, infants with BPD were smaller, more immature, with lower one- and five-minute Apgar scores. Infants with BPD had a greater incidence of cardio-pulmonary and central nervous system (CNS) complications in the nursery. On follow-up, 25 (42%) of these infants were abnormal developmentally compared to 7% of infants without BPD (p less than .001). When comparisons were made within the group of infants with BPD, very few differences were found in maternal or infant risk factors between the normal and abnormal infants. The infants with BPD who had poor outcome more often had seizures and severe intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH). The infants with BPD who had good outcome were more often small for gestational age (SGA) and resuscitated with intubation at birth. They had apnea in the nursery more frequently than did abnormal infants with BPD. We conclude that VLBW infants with BPD are at greater risk for poor neurodevelopmental outcome than those without BPD. The risk for the infant with BPD relates to CNS complications rather than to chronic lung disease. 
Postoperative pulmonary edema in young, athletic adults. Pulmonary edema secondary to postextubation laryngospasm is a potentially life-threatening problem, demanding early diagnosis and prompt treatment. We believe that this problem has been grossly underestimated in its incidence, as only seven adults have been reported in the English literature, whereas seven adults have been observed at our institution in only a 24 month period. All were young, healthy, athletic adult males (average weight, 218 pounds) who underwent relatively minor, uncomplicated surgical procedures under general anesthesia. Five of these patients were collegiate and/or professional athletes and had meticulous medical records detailing their clinical course. Clinical laryngospasm was noted immediately following extubation and anesthesia by mask with subsequent pulmonary edema. The diagnoses were confirmed by clinical examination, arterial blood gas determinations or pulse oximetry, and chest roentgenogram. Four adults required reintubation. Six of the seven adults demonstrated very rapid resolution of the pulmonary edema with prompt diagnosis and institution of a therapeutic regimen including oxygen, diuretics, reintubation, and/or positive pressure ventilation. In one patient, the problem was not immediately recognized, and progressed to florid pulmonary edema requiring emergent intubation 14 hours later in the emergency room, and 3 days of mechanical ventilation. The etiology of pulmonary edema following upper airway obstruction represents an interplay between several factors: cardiogenic and neurogenic mechanisms, as well as hypoxia contribute. In this group, excessive negative intrathoracic pressure generated by forced inspiration against a closed glottis is the most likely, consistent, and logical explanation. This study suggests that young, healthy, athletic males may be at increased risk for this complication. 
Mammographic densities and risk of breast cancer. To determine the relation of mammographic densities to subsequent breast cancer risk, a case-control study was undertaken using prediagnostic mammograms of screening program participants. Mammograms of cases (n = 266) and controls (n = 301) were blindly assessed for mammographic densities, which were measured by planimetry. The odds of breast cancer increased steadily with increasing breast density (test for trend, P less than 0.0001). Breast cancer odds was 1.7 for densities between 5% and 24.9%, 2.5 for 25% through 44.9%, 3.8 for 45% through 64%, and 4.3 for densities of 65% and greater (referent = less than 5% densities). Odds ratios also increased with increasing densities among women with the P2 and DY mammographic patterns. These findings suggest that the percentage of mammographic densities in the breast can predict breast cancer risk more accurately than a qualitative assessment of mammographic patterns. 
Major vascular complications of orthognathic surgery: false aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas following orthognathic surgery. False aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas are rare complications of orthognathic surgery. The vessel most commonly involved with false aneurysms following mandibular surgery is the internal maxillary artery, and this vessel, especially the sphenopalatine branch, may also be involved following maxillary surgery. An unusual factor in the presentation of false aneurysms following Le Fort I osteotomies is an initial episode of epistaxis occurring greater than 2 weeks postoperatively. Arteriovenous fistulas following orthognathic surgery are more apt to involve large vessels, especially the internal carotid artery. Embolization procedures are the treatment of choice for false aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas in the maxillofacial region following orthognathic surgery. 
Pharmacokinetics of low-molecular-weight heparin and unfractionated heparin during elective aortobifemoral bypass grafting. Perioperative monitoring has demonstrated that administration of heparin on an empirical basis is associated with a wide variation in patient response and elimination rate. This problem may be overcome by intervention on the basis of perioperative monitoring or by using forms of heparin with different pharmacokinetic properties. When compared with unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparin has a higher bioavailability after subcutaneous administration, a linear clearance mechanism with a prolonged half-life, and is at least as effective in preventing postoperative vein thrombosis. Theoretically these characteristics of low-molecular-weight heparin could lead to more predictable levels of heparin activity. In this study we compared the pharmacokinetics of low-molecular-weight heparin and unfractionated heparin after an intravenous injection in patients undergoing aortic graft surgery. Heparin activity was measured before heparin administration and at 5, 20, 35, 50, 65, 80, 95, and 110 minutes after administration. The anti-Xa activity in the low-molecular-weight heparin group showed less variation and was more sustained when compared to the unfractionated heparin group. Fibrin degradation products were moderately correlated with the anti-factor Xa levels of the low-molecular-weight heparin group, but no correlation was found in the unfractionated heparin group. The anti-factor Xa activity of low-molecular-weight heparin was, in contrast to that of unfractionated heparin, not completely reversible by protamine administration. The blood loss was comparable in both groups. In contrast to what was expected, the pharmacokinetic profiles of low-molecular-weight heparin and unfractionated heparin showed a similarity after intravenous injection in patients undergoing aortobifemoral bypass grafting. Factors that could have influenced the pharmacokinetic behavior of heparin are discussed. 
Physiologic and anatomic assessment of patients with rectocele. Clinical, physiologic, and anatomic assessments were carried out in 22 female patients with symptomatic rectocele (Group A), 15 patients with asymptomatic rectocele (Group B), and 14 subjects having no rectocele (Group C). Resting and pressure, rectal pressure, rectal compliance, anorectal inhibitory reflex, and rectal sensation did not differ among the groups. Proctography revealed that the lengths of the rectocele during attempted defecation in groups A (1.6 [1.0-3.5] cm) (median and range) and B (1.6 [1.0-3.0] cm) were significantly greater than that in Group C (0.4 [0.1-0.9] cm) (P less than 0.001 in both groups). Median pelvic floor descent at rest in Groups A (4.3 [1.6-7.5] cm) (median and range) and B (4.3 [1.3-6.9] cm) were significantly greater than that in Group C (2.5 [1.2-5.0] cm) (P less than 0.001 and P less than 0.02, respectively). These results indicate that rectocele is not associated with any physiologic change apart from a significant increase of pelvic floor descent. 
Final report on the second British Institute of Radiology fractionation study: short versus long overall treatment times for radiotherapy of carcinoma of the laryngo-pharynx. The second British Institute of Radiology trial of dose fractionation in radiotherapy compared two groups of prospectively randomized patients with squamous carcinoma of the laryngo-pharynx; one group was treated in a short (less than or equal to 4 weeks) and the other in a long (greater than 4 weeks) overall time. Treatment in any one centre could be given, with no planned gap in the course of treatment, either as a conventional, daily (5 fractions per week regime) or as 3 fractions per week. A total of 611 patients were allocated to treatment, of whom nine have had to be excluded from the analysis for a lack of information. Patients were admitted to the trial from January 1976 to December 1985 and were followed up for a maximum of 10 years and a minimum of 3 years. A reduction in total dose was made for use in the short compared with the long treatment regime. This reduction in total dose varied between 18% and 22% depending on whether 5 fractions or 3 fractions per week regimes were used. Overall, no statistically significant differences have been found between the two arms of the trial. The patients treated with 5 fractions per week in a short overall treatment time showed fewer late normal tissue effects. An analysis based on stratification by age, stage and anatomical site gave a relative risk (short/long overall treatment time) for deaths of 1.23 with a 95% confidence interval from 0.96 to 1.59. Analyses stratified for stage and site gave relative risks with 95% confidence intervals of 1 x 10 (0.84-1.44) for local recurrences/tumour persistence, and 1.01 (0.70-1.45) for laryngectomies. 
Prevalence and natural history of otitis media with perforation in Maori school children. New Zealand Maoris are one of five ethnic groups in developed countries known to have a high rate of ear disease, including perforation of the eardrum (CSOM). It is a strongly held belief by otolaryngologists whose practice dates back to the 1960's that the prevalence of CSOM in Maori children is gradually falling. Despite the obvious practical implications this change has not yet been documented. The aim of the study was to compare the prevalence of CSOM in two surveys conducted in 1978 and 1987 of children living in a North Island Maori community. A second aim was to examine the natural history of CSOM in these children. The raw data from the 1978 study were reviewed. Of 134 children aged 4-13, 12 had CSOM. In 1987 the same age group yielded 12 children out of 250 with CSOM. The prevalence of CSOM fell from 9 per cent to 4 per cent. The incidence of new perforations in 1987 was 1.3 per cent per child per year. It is concluded there has been a fall in the rate of CSOM, although otitis media remains a significant problem for these children. The probability of a perforation healing was influenced by whether or not the perforation had been observed before: at least 35 per cent of perforations seen for the first time healed, but none of the perforations seen on two occasions healed spontaneously. It was concluded that perforation of the eardrum can be managed conservatively at first. 
Persistent bile leak after liver transplantation: biloma drainage and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic sphincterotomy. Persistent bile leaks after liver transplantation were successfully treated in three patients with percutaneous or surgical drainage of bilomas and endoscopic retrograde ampullary sphincterotomy. In all three patients, biliary anastomoses were achieved by means of choledochocholedochostomies, with a T-tube stent in the anastomosis. The bile leaks led to subhepatic bilomas that had persistently high catheter outputs (greater than 200 mL per 24 hours) for longer than 1 month. Biloma drainage decreased shortly after sphincterotomy. 
Combined pterional-anterolateral approaches to cranial base tumors. Advanced tumors of the paranasal sinuses, parotid gland, orbit, parapharynx, and cranial cavity may invade the infratemporal fossa by direct extension or through natural anatomic pathways. The inability to control disease involving this region is reflected by the unacceptably high recurrence rates for both intracranial and extracranial neoplasms. Between 1983 and 1986, a pterional (or subtemporal) approach was combined with such conventional anterolateral procedures as a mandibulopharyngectomy, maxillectomy, orbitectomy, and parotidectomy in 13 patients with advanced skull base lesions. The tumor origin was extracranial in ten cases and intracranial in three patients. Seven of the neoplasms were malignant and six were histologically benign. Complete tumor removal was achieved in all patients. Repair of the ablative defect was achieved with a temporalis myogenous flap in ten patients, and primary closure or distant myocutaneous flaps in the remaining three patients. Postoperative complications included three lateral nasocutaneous fistulae secondary to temporalis myogenous flap necrosis and isolated cases of stroke, cerebral edema, pneumocephalus, and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea. Twelve patients are alive without evidence of disease at a mean interval of 25 months. The remaining patient died from lung metastases 11 months after surgery. 
Clinical role of respiratory virus infection in acute otitis media. The clinical characteristics of acute otitis media in relation to coexisting respiratory virus infection were studied in a 1-year prospective study of 363 children with acute otitis media. Respiratory viruses were detected using virus isolation and virus antigen detection in nasopharyngeal specimens of 42% of the patients at the time of diagnosis. Rhinovirus (24%) and respiratory syncytial virus (13%) were the two most common viruses detected. Adenovirus, parainfluenza viruses, and coronavirus OC43 were found less frequently. The mean duration of preceding symptoms was 5.9 days before the diagnosis of acute otitis media. Ninety-four percent of the children had symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection. Fever was reported in 55% and earache in 47% of cases. Patients with respiratory syncytial virus infection had fever, cough, and vomiting significantly more often than patients with rhinovirus infection or virus-negative patients. No significant differences were found in the appearance of the tympanic membrane and outcome of illness between virus-negative and virus-positive patients with acute otitis. Most patients respond well to antimicrobial therapy despite the coexisting viral infection. If the symptoms of infection persist, they can be due to the underlying viral infection, and viral diagnostics preferably with rapid methods may be clinically useful in these patients. 
Rationale for the use of 5-HT1-like agonists in the treatment of migraine. Migraine headache is thought to be associated with a dilatation of cranial blood vessels, particularly those in the dura mater, and an accompanying localized sterile inflammatory response. Sumatriptan is a highly selective 5-HT1-like receptor agonist which selectively constricts cranial blood vessels (including those in the dura mater). It also inhibits neurogenically-mediated plasma protein extravasation in the dura mater. Haemodynamic studies in anaesthetized animals have shown that sumatriptan selectively constricts the carotid arterial circulation and this effect appears to be restricted to an effect on carotid arteriovenous anastomoses. Sumatriptan has a much more selective pharmacological profile than ergot preparations which are also used in the acute treatment of migraine. The development of sumatriptan has been based on a vascular theory of migraine and its high degree of efficacy in the treatment of migraine strengthens the argument that dilatation of cranial blood vessels is the cause of vascular headache. 
Abdominal pain in HIV infection. The causes of abdominal pain in patients with AIDS are different from those of the general population, and there are no guidelines as to which investigations are optimal. We reviewed our experience of 63 patients who presented with abdominal pain as the main reason for admission to the AIDS unit at St Stephen's and Westminster Hospital between January 1988 and January 1990. All patients were assessed within the same structured diagnostic programme. Thirty-five had upper abdominal pain, predominantly in the right upper quadrant in 27; seven had lower abdominal pain, which was concentrated in the right iliac fossa in three; 21 had diffuse abdominal pain. The causes of pain were determined satisfactorily in the majority of patients using routine gastroenterological investigations. The predominant site of pain had considerable predictive value in the diagnosis. The commonest cause of right upper quadrant pain was sclerosing cholangitis (17 of 27); endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography was necessary for a confident diagnosis. Diarrhoea was frequently associated (15 of 21) with diffuse abdominal pain; the commonest cause (six of 21) was cytomegalovirus colitis. Neoplasia was the cause of abdominal pain in eight patients. The other causes of abdominal pain and the utility of various investigations are discussed. An investigatory route which may provide maximum information has been suggested. 
Incomplete lower esophageal sphincter relaxation in subjects with peristalsis: prevalence and clinical outcome. Incomplete lower esophageal sphincter relaxation is recognized in achalasia and has been reported in subjects with esophageal spasm. We reviewed 500 consecutive manometric studies from a 3-yr period to determine the prevalence of this manometric finding, its association with other motility abnormalities, and the clinical outcome of subjects without associated aperistalsis (i.e., without achalasia). We identified 60 subjects with incomplete lower sphincter relaxation, 17 of whom had at least some normal peristalsis (3.4% of the total). Mean lower sphincter residual pressure for these 17 subjects (4.5 +/- 2.8 mm Hg) was intermediate between those with achalasia (11.7 +/- 6.8 mm Hg) and those with normal relaxation (0.1 +/- 0.2 mm Hg). Both peristaltic and contraction abnormalities in the esophageal body were prevalent in the 17 subjects compared with those who had normal relaxation. Outcome with conservative medical therapy after a mean follow-up of 3.3 yr was not significantly related to presence of peristaltic or contraction abnormalities at presentation, and 71% of subjects with or without these concomitant findings had improvement or complete resolution of symptoms. Only one subject worsened and was treated with pneumatic dilation. We conclude that incomplete relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter without aperistalsis is uncommon, symptom regression occurs with conservative therapy, and pneumatic dilation appears rarely required over a modest follow-up period. 
Relation of stenosis resolution pressure to long-term clinical outcome after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Variables associated with a poor long-term prognosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) include a short duration of symptoms before PTCA, unstable angina and the presence of thrombus at the PTCA site. These imply a component of transient or dynamic obstruction as opposed to a pure fixed obstruction. It is postulated that resolution pressure (i.e., the pressure at which complete balloon inflation occurs) may also correlate with prognosis after successful PTCA. In 173 consecutive patients undergoing successful, elective, single-lesion PTCA, 48 (28%) were found to have narrowings that resolved at less than or equal to 2 atm (group 1) and 125 (72%) were found to have narrowings resolved at greater than 2 atm (group 2). There were no significant differences in baseline, anatomic or procedural variables between the 2 groups, except that angiographic coronary dissection occurred in 17% of group 1 patients versus 40% of group 2 patients (p less than 0.007). During a mean follow-up of 12.0 +/- 6.1 months, the incidence of cardiac events (repeat PTCA, coronary artery bypass grafting or myocardial infarction) was 29% in group 1 versus 15% in group 2 (p less than 0.05). The overall incidence of angina was similar between the groups (25 vs 28%), but Canadian Cardiovascular Association class 4 angina occurred significantly more frequently in group 1 than group 2 (21 vs 8%) (p less than 0.04). These data suggest that a low resolution pressure is associated with a higher incidence of unstable angina and recurrent cardiac events during follow-up than higher resolution pressures. 
What if Americans ate less fat? A quantitative estimate of the effect on mortality. Americans consume an average of 37% of their energy intake as fat. Many authorities recommend restricting fat intake to 30% of energy intake to reduce the rates of coronary heart disease and perhaps of cancers of the breast, colon, and prostate. Based on the assumptions that underlie those recommendations, we estimated the effect of this dietary change on mortality. If all Americans restricted their intake of dietary fat by reducing consumption of saturated fat and accompanying dietary cholesterol, the corresponding reductions in serum cholesterol levels could reduce coronary heart disease mortality rates by 5% to 20%, depending on age. If the relationship between dietary fat and cancer is as strong as has been observed in some studies, the proportional effects on mortality from fat-related cancers could be even greater, although the absolute effects--given the lower mortality rates--would be smaller. Overall, if the assumptions are correct, about 42,000 of the 2.3 million deaths that would have occurred in adults each year in the United States could be deferred. This 2% benefit, equivalent to an increase in average life expectancy of 3 to 4 months, would accrue chiefly to people over the age of 65 years. If recent concerns about the possibly harmful effects of cholesterol lowering on mortality from noncardiovascular causes--which mainly affect younger persons--are valid, these relatively modest benefits would be overestimates of the actual effect. 
Near normalization of adolescent height with growth hormone therapy in very short children without growth hormone deficiency. Ten prepubertal children with stature at or below the 1st percentile for height and without growth hormone deficiency received 0.3 U recombinant growth hormone per kilogram daily for 2 years before puberty. Their growth velocity increased from 4 +/- 0.3 cm/yr before treatment to 10.7 +/- 0.6 and 8.8 +/- 0.6 cm, respectively, during the first and second years of treatment, and then remained at 5.7 +/- 0.7 cm the year after the end of growth hormone administration. This resulted in a near normalization of adolescent height. Bone maturation paralleled chronologic age, and therefore the expected final height of the children increased by approximately 10 cm. Administration of growth hormone induced a reversible hyperinsulinemia, with moderate and transient changes in glucose metabolism. A prospective, randomized study, including an untreated cohort, will be needed to confirm the effects on final height and to determine the magnitude of the response in familial short stature. 
Gastric duplication cyst. Endoscopic presentation as an ulcerated antral mass. A case of a 53-year-old man who presented with epigastric pain and weight loss is described. Endoscopy showed a smooth antral mass with what appeared to be a central overlying ulcer. Computerized tomography and upper gastrointestinal series confirmed the presence of a gastric mass. Laparotomy and local resection showed a gastric duplication comprised of two cysts, one with communication to the stomach lumen. Gastric duplication is a rare entity, especially in the adult. Though generally benign, local ulceration or fistula formation can cause symptoms and may suggest a more malignant process that warrants investigation. 
Distinction between metabolic and myogenic mechanisms of coronary hyperemic response to brief diastolic occlusion. We monitored an index of coronary vascular resistance (mean aortic pressure/mean coronary flow) in 19 heart-blocked conscious dogs paced at 60 beats/min and instrumented with an aortic pressure catheter, left circumflex artery electromagnetic flow probe, and a coronary occluder. Cessation of pacing for a single beat resulted in a long diastole control (LDC) intervention beat of 2-second duration characterized by a progressive rise in diastolic coronary vascular resistance index. A 400-msec coronary artery occlusion early in a long diastole (LD4) dramatically inhibited the rate of rise in resistance index during the first 600 msec (phase 1) after occlusion. Partial recovery of the resistance index rise rate was evident during the remaining 400 msec (phase 2) of the long diastole. In nine dogs, LDC and LD4 intervention beats were instituted during two conditions of myocardial metabolic activity in which the myogenic stimuli associated with coronary occlusion would be similar: 1) paired pacing and 2) normal pacing plus intravenous adenosine and phenylephrine infusions (AP) to maintain mean aortic pressure and coronary flow at paired pacing levels. During paired pacing, the LD4-LDC differences in phase 1 and 2 resistance index rise rates (-69 +/- 18 and -48 +/- 31 mmHg/ml/sec2, respectively) were greater than during normal pacing plus AP (-32 +/- 14 and -1 +/- 32 mm Hg/ml/sec2, phase 1 and 2, respectively) (p less than 0.05). These differences are consistent with operation of a metabolic mechanism in response to occlusion. 
Sympathetic secretory response to hypercapnic acidosis in swine. We studied the effect of graded acute hypercapnic acidosis (HA) on sympathetic neural activation in 15 juvenile farm swine in vivo. In seven animals with acute HA, plasma norepinephrine (NE) concentration increased progressively from 189 +/- 34 to 483 +/- 80 pg/ml (P less than 0.04) as arterial CO2 partial pressure (PaCO2) increased in steps from 40 to 80 Torr (pH 7.17 +/- 0.01). Plasma epinephrine (EPI) concentration increased from 30 +/- 15 to 125 +/- 66 pg/ml (P = NS) over the same change in PaCO2. At PaCO2 of 110 Torr, plasma NE increased 3.4-fold above maximal basal concentrations; plasma EPI was 1.8-fold greater than basal under the same conditions. With HA, systemic vascular resistance (SVR) decreased from 1,748 +/- 110 to 1,392 +/- 145 dyn.s.cm-5 (P less than 0.0002), cardiac output (CO) increased from 3.4 +/- 0.3 to 4.3 +/- 0.3 l/min (P less than 0.01), and heart rate (HR) increased from 117 +/- 11 to 154 +/- 17 beats/min (P less than 0.03). To demonstrate that catecholamine secretion was related directly to acidosis caused by an increase in PaCO2, HCO3- was infused in eight other swine to buffer extracellular acute HA (pH 7.37 +/- 0.01 at PaCO2 of 80 Torr). Buffering attenuated the increase in plasma NE, which remained within the normal range at PaCO2 of 80 Torr. The decrease in SVR and increases in CO and HR also were also attenuated by HCO3- buffering of HA. We demonstrate the effects of graded acute HA on endogenous secretion of catecholamine and on the associated hemodynamic responses in swine. 
Metabolism of 25-OH-vitamin D3 by peritoneal macrophages from CAPD patients. The active metabolite of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25(OH)2D3), is produced mainly by the kidney, but there is evidence for extrarenal production in certain circumstances. We studied whether peritoneal macrophages (PM) from CAPD patients were capable of metabolizing 25-OH-D3 to 1,25(OH)2D3. We found that PM were able to metabolize 25-OH-D3 in vitro; the main product following 16 hours of incubation was 19-nor, 10-oxo, 25-OH-D3 with smaller amounts of 1,25(OH)2D3. However, after shorter incubations of three and five hours a larger portion of 1,25(OH)2D3 was produced. The metabolism of 25-OH-D3 was greatly enhanced in PM harvested during episodes of peritonitis. This property was specific for PM of CAPD patients, and was not found in PM from normal subjects. However, incubation of control PM with peritoneal effluent from CAPD patients resulted in induction of the ability of these cells to metabolize 25-OH-D3. This induction was enhanced by preincubation with peritoneal effluent from CAPD patients suffering from peritonitis. Prostaglandin E2 was found to be involved in this synthesis: addition of PGE2 to normal PM induced metabolism of 25-OH-D3, and incubation of PM from CAPD patients with indomethacin decreased the metabolism of 25-OH-D3. The vitamin D metabolites produced by PM from CAPD patients could have a role in immunological resistance to peritoneal infections. 
Recombinant alpha interferon in metastatic renal cell carcinoma. A cooperative phase II study. A total of 61 evaluable patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma have been treated with 3 x 10(6) IU per square meter of body surface with recombinant alpha 2b interferon three times a week within a Cooperative Phase II Study. Toxic death for terminal renal failure occurred in 1 patient (1.63%), and toxicities greater than WHO grade 2 were present in 10 cases (16%). The overall response rate after six months of treatment was 13.1% (partial response 4, minor response 4). Two complete responses were obtained at nine and fifteen months (3.3%). Long-lasting stabilization of disease was 13.1 percent. 
Screening mammography. Screening mammography can reduce mortality from breast cancer and is the only means of detecting nonpalpable cancers that are often more curable. Based on this, guidelines have evolved but compliance with them has been slow. Reservations are based on yield-cost-benefit-harm considerations, but uniformed and/or disadvantaged women and reluctance if not resistance to screening mammography by primary care physicians are major problems. The challenges are to overcome these obstacles and to obtain sufficient competent personnel and facilities to make reproducibly optimum screening mammography, which is accurately interpreted, widely available to all eligible women at the lowest possible cost. 
Colposcopic evaluation of human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive women. To determine the effect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on cervical histology, 32 known HIV-seropositive women underwent cervical colposcopic evaluation. All had cervical cytology, colposcopically directed biopsy, and T-cell studies performed. Thirteen of 32 patients (41%) had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). Another 14 of 32 patients (44%) had histologic evidence of cervicitis. Abnormal cytology, noted in only three women, suggested CIN in one and inflammatory atypia in two. All (five of five) patients with a clinical diagnosis of AIDS had CIN, compared with 30% (eight of 27) of non-AIDS HIV-positive patients (P less than .05). Patients diagnosed with CIN had significantly lower CD4 cell counts (221/mm3 versus 408/mm3; P less than .06) and CD4:CD8 ratios (0.33 versus 0.62; P less than .02) than those without CIN. Patients with cervicitis had greater T-cell immunosuppression than did those with normal histology. In addition, patients with AIDS were more likely to have higher-grade lesions than were non-AIDS HIV-seropositive patients. Seven of 12 CIN specimens available for analysis by polymerase chain reaction using consensus sequence primers detected human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA, including three patients with three or more HPV types. Our data suggest that abnormal cervical pathology is common among HIV-positive women and that cytologic screening is not predictive of CIN in this population. In addition, the presence and severity of cervical dysplasia correlates with quantitative T-cell function. We strongly recommend that cervical colposcopy be part of the routine management of HIV-seropositive women. 
Abrupt outpatient withdrawal of medication in analgesic-abusing migraineurs. 46 migraineurs with secondary chronic daily headache were treated for medication abuse as outpatients by abrupt withdrawal of the offending drugs. The patients were supported with adequate explanation of the disorder, regular follow-up, amitriptyline (10 mg at night), and naproxen (500 mg) for relief of headache symptoms. By 6 months of follow-up 37 patients had relief from chronic headaches, and analgesic intake had become intermittent and appropriate to the original occasional migraine episodes. 6 had substantially reduced analgesic intake, but headache severity was unchanged; 2 had not managed to reduce intake and headache was unchanged; and 1 patient withdrew after the first visit. 
Factors affecting compliance with screening sigmoidoscopy BACKGROUND. A retrospective, qualitative study in a university setting was undertaken to better understand factors influencing patient compliance with screening sigmoidoscopy. METHODS. Individuals who completed screening sigmoidoscopy were interviewed to learn about the physician-patient relationship, general knowledge of cancer, family experience with cancer, exposure to the media, and specific reasons why sigmoidoscopy was completed. RESULTS. Respondents reported that their physician's recommendation had a strong positive influence on their decision to have sigmoidoscopic screening, as did their family and personal experiences with cancer. In all cases, the patients stated that they would not have had a sigmoidoscopy without the recommendation of their physician. Respondents were little influenced by exposure to the media or by famous personalities. CONCLUSIONS. The importance of the physician's recommendation for the patient to have sigmoidoscopy and demonstration of concern with early cancer detection may represent the primary motivating factors in completion of screening sigmoidoscopy. 
An improved method for the quantification of left-to-right cardiac shunts. We have investigated a technique for quantifying QP/QS in left-to-right cardiac shunts. In this method, the gamma variate, which is fitted to the first-pass portion of the lung curve, is used to generate a curve, which simulates the response of a normal lung curve with systemic recirculation. The difference between this curve and the observed lung curve is then used to calculate QP/QS. This method was evaluated on a set of simulated lung time-activity curves with precisely known QP/QS values on a group of 11 patients with no clinical suspicion of cardiac shunt and on a group of 30 patients referred for cardiac shunt studies. The QP/QS in each of these studies was determined by three individuals using both the Maltz-Treves method and the new method. This method yielded QP/QS values that were more accurate on the simulated lung data and had less interobserver variation on all the studies than those obtained from the Maltz-Treves method. 
Diffuse Lewy body disease presenting with a supranuclear gaze palsy. A patient with diffuse Lewy body disease presented with supranuclear vertical and horizontal ophthalmoplegia, dementia, axial rigidity and falls, bradykinesia and pyramidal signs. This broadens the clinical presentation of this pathological diagnosis and re-emphasises the heterogeneity of patients diagnosed clinically as progressive supranuclear palsy (Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome). 
Computed tomography for patient management in coronary artery disease. Computed tomography (CT) represents the optimum theoretical approach to x-ray imaging. This conclusion results from an awareness of CT's capacity to solve the fundamental limitation of all forms of x-ray imaging--the superimposition of anatomic structures. Because CT is potentially a fully three-dimensional method, this problem is addressed in a manner not subject to the risks, complications, and technical limitations of selective angiography, subtraction angiography, tomography, and other techniques. Ultrafast CT provides a broad spectrum of useful quantitative cardiac data during one minimally invasive procedure. Therefore, the optimism for cine CT imaging of the heart is well founded. Apart from the demonstration of anatomic structures in any reconstructed plane and in movie format, without the need for any form of electrocardiographic gating, this new generation of millisecond CT scanners offers a unique potential for measuring myocardial mechanics and perfusion. Myocardial integrity can be evaluated by measuring myocardial wall thickening, which is a sensitive indicator of blood flow. It can also be assessed by time-density changes derived from analyzing the passage of contrast medium through thin slices of myocardium. Feasibility studies have demonstrated that this should be possible in the clinical setting by use of fast CT scanning. The radiation exposure to the patient with cine CT is low and comparable to, or less than, that of conventional CT and 10-15% of that received during angiocardiography; therefore, it is not a practical limitation. Further clinical and research studies are needed to determine the future role of this exciting new modality in the diagnosis and management of patients with heart disease. 
Arboviral infections in the United States. Arboviruses are important considerations in the differential diagnosis of encephalitis and other acute infections. Alterations in the environment and in human behaviors contribute to changing patterns of arboviral transmission. These trends, the periodic epidemic resurgence of arboviral diseases such as St. Louis encephalitis, and the discovery of new arboviruses present a continued challenge to infectious disease clinicians. 
Changes in protein, RNA and DNA and rates of protein synthesis in muscle-containing tissues of the mature rat in response to ethanol feeding: a comparative study of heart, small intestine and gastrocnemius muscle. 1. The relative sensitivity of heart, small intestine and skeletal muscle to chronic ethanol feeding was investigated in mature Wistar rats fed ethanol as 36% of total energy intake; controls were fed the same diet in which ethanol was substituted by isoenergetic glucose. 2. Chronic ethanol feeding had no apparent effect on the protein, RNA and DNA contents of heart homogenates (atria and ventricles). The ratios of RNA/protein (synthetic capacity), RNA/DNA (synthetic material per nucleus) and protein/DNA (DNA-unit or apparent cell size) were also unaltered in the hearts of alcohol-fed rats. Fractional rates of cardiac protein synthesis (ks), and synthesis relative to RNA (kRNA) and DNA (kDNA) and absolute rates of protein synthesis (Vs) were unaffected by ethanol feeding. The total content of cardiac soluble proteins was unaltered by chronic ethanol feeding, but there were small and statistically significant decreases in the contents of the myofibrillar and stromal protein fractions. There were no differences in ks in any of the cardiac subcellular protein fractions. 3. In the small intestine, ethanol feeding had no statistically significant effect on either protein or RNA contents, but there was an apparent increase in RNA when expressed relative to either protein or DNA, though the DNA-unit was unaltered. There were also substantial decreases in ks, kRNA, kDNA and Vs of approximately 15-35%. 4. In the gastrocnemius, RNA contents were significantly reduced by ethanol feeding but protein and DNA contents were unaffected. Indices of the synthetic capacity and synthetic material per nucleus were also reduced, but the DNA-unit was unaltered. These observations were accompanied by approx. 15-30% reductions in ks, kRNA, kDNA and Vs in response to ethanol feeding. 5. It is concluded that various aspects of protein metabolism in the heart, small intestine and skeletal muscle are adversely affected by chronic ethanol toxicity. The characteristics and magnitude of the responses in each tissue differ. Effects in the heart may be subtle, though haemodynamic indices may ensue. The ethanol-induced alterations in the small intestine and skeletal muscle may be responsible for gastrointestinal disturbances in motility and skeletal muscle weakness, respectively. 
Collagenous colitis: pathophysiologic considerations. Collagenous colitis, a cause of watery diarrhea characterized by a distinctive band of collagen under the surface epithelium of the colon, has been recognized with increasing frequency in recent years. The pathophysiology of collagenous colitis remains obscure. The thickening of the subepithelial collagen layer may be a response to chronic inflammation or a local abnormality of collagen synthesis. The precise mechanism of the diarrhea in collagenous colitis is also unclear, and it has not been possible to link the diarrhea directly to the excess collagen deposition. The relationship between collagenous colitis and lymphocytic colitis, another type of microscopic colitis, remains to be defined; elucidating the relationship between the two disorders may provide clues to the pathophysiology of both. 
Possible linkage of the estrogen receptor gene to breast cancer in a family with late-onset disease. The estrogen-receptor locus is a candidate gene for inherited susceptibility to human breast cancer, particularly among families with later onset, primarily estrogen-receptor-positive tumors. For one extended family with eight patients with late-onset disease, one estrogen-receptor haplotype was consistently coinherited with breast cancer, yielding a +1.85 lod score for linkage at zero recombination. Simulation of this pedigree assuming independent inheritance of breast cancer and estrogen-receptor genotypes led to a lod score greater than or equal to 1.85 only once in 2,000 replicates. We suggest testing linkage of this gene to breast cancer in other families with late-onset disease. 
Clinical pharmacology of intravenous enoximone: pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics in patients with heart failure. Twenty-one patients with heart failure (New York Heart Association [NYHA] class II to IV) received a 24-hour infusion of enoximone followed by a 12-hour washout period. Patients were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. Groups I to III received an 0.5 mg/kg bolus, followed by a maintenance infusion of 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 micrograms/kg/min. Group IV patients received a maintenance infusion of 5.0 micrograms/kg/min without a loading dose. Serial assessment of hemodynamics, plasma levels of enoximone and enoximone sulfoxide, and ventricular ectopy were performed. Enoximone produced a clinically significant increase in cardiac index, and a decrease in mean pulmonary artery wedge pressure and systemic vascular resistance in all groups. Enoximone mildly increased heart rate, and had a minimal effect on mean arterial pressure. There was no statistically significant change in ventricular ectopy during the infusion. Significant hemodynamic improvement was noted at even the lowest infusion rate, and did not increase in linear fashion at higher infusion rates. In patients who did not receive an initial loading bolus of 0.5 mg/kg, the increase in cardiac index was delayed by approximately 1 hour. Plasma concentrations of both enoximone and its major metabolite continued to rise throughout the 24-hour infusion in group III (10.0 micrograms/kg/min), rather than reaching steady state as predicted by the terminal exponential half-lives of these compounds. This is suggestive of nonlinear pharmacokinetics and indicates a potential for excessive accumulation of enoximone and its metabolite during prolonged infusion. These findings may have important implications in guiding the intravenous administration of enoximone. 
Very severe self-poisoning lithium carbonate intoxication causing a myocardial infarction. A case of severe lithium carbonate self-poisoning is described, presenting with a very high serum lithium level (14.6 mmol/L) on admission. Lengthy and repeated hemodialyses were required to lower lithemia to nontoxic ranges. As is usually reported, our patient had prolonged neurologic manifestations (coma, hyperreflexia, fluctuating focal signs) and developed hypotension, cardiovascular collapse, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and diarrhea. Other less common features were the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction without coronary artery lesions and thrombocytopenia. The possible pathogenic mechanisms are discussed. Hemodialysis and supportive intensive care treatment are commented upon. The final outcome was favorable, and the patient recovered completely. 
Quantification of ST-segment changes during coronary angioplasty in patients with left bundle branch block. Electrocardiographic manifestations of ischemia are difficult to interpret in the presence of left bundle branch block (LBBB). Recently developed techniques allow continuous computerized digital analysis of ST segments that can be zeroed to the patient's own baseline electrocardiogram even if that baseline is abnormal conduction. With use of this technology, ST-segment changes during balloon coronary occlusion were compared in 10 patients with LBBB versus an age-, sex-, and coronary anatomy-matched population of 20 control subjects with normal baseline conduction. ST-segment deviation of greater than or equal to 1 mm from baseline was present in 80% of patients with LBBB and in 75% of control patients (difference not significant). There was no significant difference between patients with LBBB versus control patients in maximal ST-segment deviation (2.6 +/- 1.7 vs 2.0 +/- 1.0 mm) or in ST-segment deviation measured after 60 seconds of occlusion (2.4 +/- 1.3 vs 1.8 +/- 1.1 mm). ST-segment deviation reached 1 mm more quickly in patients with LBBB (33 +/- 11 seconds) than in control subjects (60 +/- 36 seconds) (p = 0.003). It is concluded that ST-segment analysis is feasible in patients with LBBB using digital self-referenced ST analysis and may provide important clinical information regarding the presence of myocardial ischemia. 
Effects of early captopril administration on infarct expansion, left ventricular remodeling and exercise capacity after acute myocardial infarction. In a double-blind study, 99 patients (82 men, age range 40 to 75 years) with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were randomly assigned to receive captopril or placebo. Treatment began within 24 hours of admission. Serial echocardiographic measurements of endocardial segment lengths and left ventricular (LV) volumes, and ejection fractions were obtained. The 2 groups were matched at baseline except for an excess of previous AMI in the placebo group (13 of 50 vs 2 of 49 patients, p = 0.002). The increase in anterior segment length, from baseline to 2 months, was significantly less in the captopril than in the placebo group (2.8 +/- 1.6 vs 10.4 +/- 2.4mm, 95% confidence interval [CI] -13.5 to -1.7, p = 0.01). The increase in posterior segment length was also less in the captopril group, but the difference was not significant (3.2 +/- 1.2 vs 7.0 +/- 1.8mm, 95% CI -8.0 to 0.5, p = 0.08). Fewer patients in the captopril group demonstrated increases in segment length greater than 2 standard deviations of the measurement error (14 of 70 [20%] vs 29 of 72 [40%] patients, p = 0.009). In patients with anterior AMI, the infarct-containing anterior segment length increased by 4.5 +/- 2.3 mm in the captopril versus 12.4 +/- 3.1 mm in the placebo group (95% CI -15.7 to -0.2, p = 0.046), and fewer patients in the captopril group demonstrated infarct expansion (6 of 20 [30%] vs 13 of 21 [62%] patients, p = 0.04). 
Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase is a peroxisomal enzyme in human fibroblasts and hepatoma cells. The intracellular localization of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (superoxide:superoxide oxidoreductase, EC 1.15.1.1) has been examined by immunofluorescence using four monoclonal anti-Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase antibodies raised against a recombinant human Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase derivative produced and purified from Escherichia coli. Colocalization with catalase, a peroxisomal matrix enzyme, was used to demonstrate the peroxisomal localization of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase in human fibroblasts and hepatoma cells. In the fibroblasts of Zellweger syndrome patients, the enzyme is not transported to the peroxisomal ghosts but, like catalase, remains in the cytoplasm. In addition, immunocryoelectron microscopy of yeast cells expressing human Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase showed that the enzyme is translocated to the peroxisomes. 
Adrenaline injection for endoscopic haemostasis in non-variceal upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Over a 30-month period, 53 patients with actively bleeding non-variceal lesions of the oesophagus, stomach or duodenum were treated by endoscopic injection of 1/10,000 adrenaline. Initial haemostasis was obtained in 50 cases, and permanent haemostasis in 44. Emergency surgery for bleeding was required in nine patients overall, and there were four deaths. All lesions requiring surgery were located on the posterior wall of the duodenum or the lesser curve of the stomach, and all but one had evidence of an exposed arterial vessel. Adrenaline injection is an effective, safe and simple method of endoscopic haemostasis. 
Estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors and heat-shock 27-kD protein in liver biopsy specimens from patients with hepatitis B virus infection. It has been proposed that in the human liver, the estrogen receptor gene may become inappropriately expressed as a consequence of HBV integration, contributing to cell transformation. This study was undertaken to examine estrogen receptor status in patients with hepatitis B virus infection and to analyze the expression of progesterone receptor and of a heat-shock 27,000-D protein (hsp27), both of which are estrogen regulated in estrogen target tissues. Receptor proteins were detected in liver biopsy specimens by immunocytochemistry using antireceptor monoclonal antibodies; a monoclonal antibody was also used to detect hsp27. Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor were mainly seen in the nuclei of hepatocytes. The presence of hepatitis B virus infection did not always result in elevated estrogen receptor expression, but in general the expression of this receptor protein was higher in hepatitis B virus-positive patients than in patients with the same pathological findings (hepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatocarcinoma) but without hepatitis B virus. This was more clearly seen in the patients with hepatitis. Although estrogen receptor expression was moderate to high in many samples, the expression of the two biochemical markers of estrogen action at postreceptor levels (progesterone receptor and hsp27) was low or absent in most of the liver tissues examined, suggesting that in the liver the interaction of estrogen-estrogen receptor-DNA has characteristics inherent to this tissue. 
Fasting plasma glucose levels and endogenous androgens in non-diabetic postmenopausal women. 1. The clinical association between glucose intolerance, hyperinsulinaemia, insulin resistance and hyperandrogenism is well recognized in premenopausal women with polycystic ovarian disease. We examined the hypothesis that fasting plasma glucose levels might be related to endogenous androgen levels in postmenopausal women in the absence of overt clinical disease. 2. In a Southern Californian cohort of 848 nondiabetic postmenopausal women aged 50-79 years, fasting plasma glucose levels positively correlated with levels of the endogenous androgens dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate and free testosterone and negatively with sex-hormone-binding globulin across the whole range of glucose and hormone levels. Mean dihydroepiandrosterone sulphate and free testosterone levels were 16% and 46% higher, respectively, and mean sex-hormone-binding globulin levels 27% lower in the top compared with the bottom quartile of fasting plasma glucose levels. This relationship was independent of age, body mass index, cigarette smoking habit and exogenous oestrogen use. 3. These findings raise questions about the possible physiological role of androgens in the regulation of glucose metabolism and insulin resistance and, possibly, in the mediation of the some of the cardiovascular consequences of diabetes in women. 
Pharyngeal function and snoring characteristics in apneic and nonapneic snorers. Abnormalities in pharyngeal function, manifested even when the patients are awake, are thought to play an important role in the pathogenesis of sleep apnea. Tests of awake pharyngeal function continue to stimulate interest because it is hoped that they may allow physicians to distinguish patients with sleep apnea from those without it, and therefore reduce the number of unnecessary sleep studies. We elected to study two measures of pharyngeal function: changes in pharyngeal area with lung volume (PLVD) and changes in pharyngeal area in response to externally applied positive pressure, i.e., pharyngeal distensibility (Cph). Both measurements have been employed for assessment of pharyngeal function, and both are thought to reflect pharyngeal "floppiness." Measurement of PLVD is technically very simple, whereas the measurement of Cph is technically more complex. If the two measurements are highly correlated, it might be possible to replace the technically more difficult one by the simpler one. Consequently, the purpose of this study was two-fold: first, to examine the relationship between pharyngeal distensibility and lung volume dependence of pharyngeal area, and second, to compare these parameters in a large group of confirmed snorers with and without obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). We studied 75 unselected patients referred for the investigation of snoring and suspected sleep apnea. All patients had nocturnal polysomnography, pulmonary function tests, and measurement of pharyngeal areas at TLC, FRC, and residual volume (RV) employing the acoustic reflection technique. The area measurement at FRC was performed at zero and at 4.1 cm H2O positive airway pressure to calculate pharyngeal distensibility. 
Ligamentous compression of the celiac axis: CT findings in five patients. Compression of the celiac trunk by the median arcuate ligament of the diaphragm is an uncommon angiographic and surgical finding that rarely may be symptomatic. We retrospectively reviewed contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scans in five patients with severe ligamentous compression of the celiac axis, confirmed by surgery and/or angiography, and compared the findings with those of enhanced scans of 100 consecutive patients without known ligamentous compression. In all five patients with ligamentous celiac artery compression, CT showed effacement or narrowing of the celiac trunk by an anterior soft-tissue band. Dilated peripancreatic collateral vessels were seen in four cases, and poststenotic dilatation of the distal celiac trunk was seen in two cases. The normal appearance of the vasculature was seen in the majority (76%) of the 100 control subjects, but in eight patients the celiac origin was obscured on CT scans, and in 16 patients the celiac trunk appeared narrow or effaced. Our experience suggests that severe ligamentous celiac artery compression can be identified on CT. However, the isolated CT finding of effacement or obscuration of the celiac axis occurs sufficiently often in normal patients that it is not adequate evidence to establish the diagnosis of celiac artery compression. 
Tumor cell adhesion to endothelial cells: endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 as an inducible adhesive receptor specific for colon carcinoma cells. Activation of endothelial cells by the two inflammatory mediators interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor strongly increases tumor cell adhesion. We describe antibody inhibition studies showing that the endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1), a cell-surface glycoprotein selectively expressed by cytokine-activated endothelial cells and responsible for neutrophil adhesion, is the major, if not the only, mediator of colon carcinoma cell adhesion to activated endothelial cells. Among the different tumor cell lines tested, seven colon carcinoma cell lines were sensitive to ELAM-1 antibodies. Adhesion of melanoma, osteosarcoma, and lung, cervix, or kidney carcinoma cell lines to IL-1-treated endothelial cells was not affected by the ELAM-1 antibody. This result suggests that ELAM-1 is selectively recognized by colon carcinoma cells and that adhesion of tumor cells to activated endothelial cells could be mediated by different and specific mechanisms. 
Effect of long-term enalapril therapy on cardiopulmonary exercise performance in men with mild heart failure and previous myocardial infarction. Forty-one men with documented myocardial infarction greater than 6 months previously were randomized to long-term (48 weeks) therapy with placebo or enalapril on a double-blind basis. All patients were receiving concurrent therapy with digitalis and a diuretic drug for symptomatic heart failure (functional class II or III). The mean age was 64 +/- 7.3 years and no patient suffered from exertional chest pain. Patients underwent maximal cardiopulmonary exertional chest pain. Patients underwent maximal cardiopulmonary exercise testing to exhaustion on an ergometer cycle nine times over the course of 48 weeks. Gas exchange data were collected on a breath by breath basis with use of a continuous ramp protocol. In the placebo group (n = 21), the mean (+/- SD) peak oxygen consumption (VO2) at baseline was 18.8 +/- 5.2 versus 18.5 +/- 5.5 ml/kg per min at 48 weeks (-1.4%, p = NS). In the enalapril group (n = 20), the corresponding values were 18.1 +/- 3.1 versus 18.3 +/- 2.6 ml/kg per min (+2.8%, p = NS). The mean VO2 at the anaerobic threshold for the placebo group at baseline study was 13.1 +/- 3.5 versus 12.8 +/- 2.1 ml/kg per min at 48 weeks (-2.2%, p = NS). The corresponding values for the enalapril group were 11.8 +/- 2.3 versus 11.8 +/- 2.4 ml/kg per min (+1.4%, p = NS). The mean total exercise duration in the placebo group at baseline study was 589 +/- 153 versus 620 +/- 181 s at 48 weeks (+5.4%, p = NS). 
Dysfibrinogenemia associated with thrombosis and third-trimester fetal loss. A case report. Dysfibrinogenemias are rare genetic disorders that are clinically silent, cause a mild bleeding tendency or have thromboembolic manifestations. During pregnancy they often cause hemorrhage and first-trimester abortions. A patient with a severe thrombotic tendency during pregnancy had a third-trimester fetal loss. 
Gamma glutamyl transpeptidase expression in foetal skin, inflammatory dermatoses and cutaneous neoplasia. Gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) is an enzyme expressed by some epithelial neoplasms but not normal interfollicular epidermis. In order to examine the relationship between malignant change and de-differentiation we studied histochemically the expression of GGT in human foetal skin, various inflammatory dermatoses and epidermal neoplasms. In foetal skin GGT was detectable after 7 weeks' gestation, reached a maximum at 11 weeks and was undetectable by 24 weeks. It was expressed strongly by squamous cell carcinoma and focally in Bowen's disease and actinic keratoses. There was no GGT expression in basal cell carcinoma or most benign skin tumours, but keratoacanthomas were weakly positive. Keratinocytes in the vicinity of malignant melanocytes also expressed GGT. This study suggests that GGT expression, while not a simple marker of malignancy, may represent reversion to a less differentiated or 'foetal' phenotype. 
Primary orbital intraosseous hemangioma. Primary orbital intraosseous hemangiomas are rare--only 16 cases have been reported previously. The authors describe five patients with this benign tumor. Patients ranged in age from 49 to 77 years, and each had a painless or mildly tender nodular lesion. Ophthalmic symptoms were minimal, although nasolacrimal obstruction was the original sign in one patient. Four of five patients responded well to complete tumor excision (two patients) or partial resection of the lesion (two patients). The fifth patient required a second operation for tumor progression after partial excision of the hemangioma. The 16 previously reported cases of orbital intraosseous hemangioma are reviewed, and the natural history and pathology of this rare vascular lesion are discussed. 
Risks of untreated hypertension. A discussion [comment] There is a strong and graded association between blood pressure and the incidence of major coronary heart disease manifestations, congestive heart failure, stroke, and total mortality. The risk of any of these manifestations is also modified by other risk factors. Tobacco smoking affects the risk for all of the previously mentioned end points. Generally, lipid disturbances are only important predictors of coronary heart disease and total mortality. Several facts indicate that elevated blood pressure is causally related to the end points. There are, however, positive relations between blood pressure levels and heart rate, serum cholesterol level, body mass index, and, according to some studies, glucose intolerance. Some more basic abnormality may be responsible for the blood pressure increase and the increases in these other factors. Hypothetically, this abnormality may be more fundamentally related to some of the end points than is hypertension itself. If that is the case, then the type of antihypertensive treatment may be of decisive importance. Different end points may be affected differently by antihypertensive drugs, a factor that may be essential in the choice of drug treatment. Proper management of other risk factors is also essential in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. 
High-dose epinephrine improves the return of spontaneous circulation rates in human victims of cardiac arrest. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the return of spontaneous circulation (RSC) rates in human victims of cardiac arrest treated with standard doses of epinephrine (SDE) or high-dose epinephrine (HDE). DESIGN: Prospective case series. SETTING: A university hospital emergency department during 1987 through 1989. PARTICIPANTS: Forty-nine adult victims of nontraumatic cardiac arrest. INTERVENTIONS: At the discretion of the treating physician, patients received epinephrine in bolus doses ranging from 1 to 15 mg. HDE was defined as a dose of at least 0.2 mg/kg; smaller doses were defined as SDE. Patients were grouped as +RSC if they developed a sustained spontaneous palpable pulse or blood pressure and as -RSC if they did not develop a pulse or blood pressure. MEASUREMENTS: Patients were grouped as +RSC if they developed a sustained spontaneous palpable pulse or blood pressure and as -RSC if they did not develop a pulse or blood pressure. Patients were also grouped by their presenting rhythm. Potentially perfusing rhythm was electromechanical dissociation or ventricular tachycardia. Nonperfusing rhythm was asystole or ventricular fibrillation. Rates were analyzed using the Fisher exact test and the two-tailed unpaired t test. HDE improved the rate of initial resuscitation (P = .008). The effect was greatest in patients with nonperfusing rhythms (P = .014) and disappeared when evaluating patients with potentially perfusing rhythms. No patient survived to hospital discharge. CONCLUSION: High-dose epinephrine improves initial resuscitation rates in human victims of cardiac arrest. Its greatest effect is in patients with a nonperfusing rhythm. 
Intratemporal facial nerve hemangiomas. Facial nerve hemangiomas are benign vascular tumors that arise within the temporal bone and have a histologic appearance similar to both cavernous hemangiomas and vascular malformations. In contrast to facial nerve schwannomas, these are extraneural tumors that cause symptoms by compression and tend to produce deficits when very small in size. We report our experience at the House Ear Clinic with 34 patients having these nonglomus intratemporal vascular tumors. Hemangiomas arising in the internal auditory canal tend to produce a progressive sensorineural hearing loss and are demonstrated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), whereas those at the geniculate ganglion are usually first seen with facial nerve symptoms and may require high-resolution computerized tomography (CT) for detection. Facial electromyography is helpful in establishing the diagnosis. Because of their extraneural nature, early diagnosis can permit removal of the tumor with preservation of facial nerves in some patients. 
Prevention of arrhythmias after noncardiac thoracic operations: flecainide versus digoxin. Cardiac arrhythmias are known complications of thoracic operations. The prophylactic value of flecainide administered as a constant-rate, intravenous infusion (0.15 mg.kg-1.h-1) after a loading dose (2 mg.kg-1) was compared with digoxin (10 micrograms.kg-1 for 12 hours, then 0.25 mg.24 h-1) in a randomized study in 30 patients using Holter monitoring during the first 72 hours after operation. Drug monitoring was performed every day to keep a serum level of flecainide of 200 to 600 ng.mL-1 and a digoxin level of 0.8 to 2 ng.mL-1. Failure, defined as the appearance of atrial fibrillation or flutter or the development of complex ventricular arrhythmias (Lown IVb and V), was observed in one patient in the flecainide group (7%) and in 7 patients in the digoxin group (47%) (p less than 0.05). It is concluded that flecainide is more efficient than digoxin in preventing and treating cardiac arrhythmias after thoracic operations. At the dosage used side effects related to flecainide or digoxin were not observed. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: results of an early experience. Ninety consecutive patients over a 6-month period with acute (31 patients) or chronic (59 patients) cholecystitis underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy on an ambulatory (49 patients), one-night (33 patients), or two-night (5 patients) basis. Three patients required open procedures for 1) perforated duodenal ulcer at 48 h, postoperatively, 2) a cholecystoduodenal fistula, and 3) Mirizzis syndrome with erosion of the common duct. The procedure is safe, efficacious, and should be offered to patients with acute and chronic biliary disease. 
Dysmegakaryopoiesis resembling acute megakaryoblastic leukemia in treated acute myeloid leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by trilineage dysplasia, including atypical megakaryocytes. Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (FAB M7) is particularly associated with atypical megakaryocytic hyperplasia (AMH). Fifteen patients with nonmegakaryoblastic AML developed AMH after therapy, comprising 12.6% of cases of AML diagnosed from 1986 to 1989. Platelet counts were normal in nine patients and decreased in six. Blasts comprised less than 5% of cells in 40% of the biopsies, ranged from 5-15% in 53%, and comprised more than 30% of cells in 7%. Numerous small hypo- and hyperlobated megakaryocytes were seen in all specimens, often occurring in clusters, and were more easily seen in sections than in smears. Subsequent biopsies in 13 patients showed a remission marrow in seven, increased blasts in three, and AML in three; none showed AMH. AMH resembling acute megakaryoblastic leukemia may be seen transiently after treatment of AML. 
Etiology of autism: genetic influences. In summary, there are a few specific genetic conditions that can be associated with autism. Among cases of unknown etiology, there is ample evidence for a higher genetic liability to autism in siblings of autistic probands than expected from the population prevalence. It appears likely that both parents and siblings have a higher liability for social and cognitive deficits that are milder but conceptually similar to those found in autism. Others factors may alter this underlying genetic liability such as sex, IQ, and prenatal and perinatal injury. In the future, genetic analyses and genetic linkage studies will need to consider using a broader definition of the autism phenotype to include not only autism but severe cognitive and social deficits. The exact genetic mechanisms and genes involved are the subject of current investigations by several research groups. Investigations in this area are likely to continue to provide important information about the causes of autism. 
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies in childhood. II. Clinical manifestations and syndromes. During a 4-year period 1984 to 1988, 20 children referred with manifestations of central nervous system or neuromuscular disease combined with hyperlactatemia were found to have a mitochondrial disease. Each diagnosis was based on the results of thorough biochemical and morphologic investigations. The patients were separated into one series with mainly encephalopathy (n = 14) and another with mainly myopathy (n = 6). The patients with encephalopathy had the following syndromes: Kearns-Sayre (n = 2), MERRF (myoclonus epilepsy and ragged red fibers; n = 2), MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes; n = 3), Alpers (n = 3), Leigh (n = 1), and other variants (n = 3). In patients with myopathy, three had hypertrophic nonobstructive cardiomyopathy. Ultrastructural abnormalities of mitochondria were the most common morphologic changes in the muscle biopsies. Complex I deficiency was most common in the patients with encephalopathy. All of the patients with myopathy had complex IV deficiency. Mutations of mitochondrial DNA were found in six patients with encephalopathy. We conclude that identification of defects at the DNA level and determination of the phenotypic expression with clinical, morphologic, and biochemical methods are fundamental for future rational classification of mitochondrial disorders. 
Juvenile fibromatosis of the orbit: a case report with review of the literature. Proliferation of fibrous tissues to form a localised mass with infiltrating margins may occur anywhere in the body; involvement of the orbit is rare. Children and young adults are most commonly affected. The term 'juvenile fibromatosis' is one of several synonyms. Of the two main forms of this entity, the solitary form is the more common and the prognosis is good. The multicentric form has a poor prognosis. The patients described, a 2 1/2-year-old boy, had a solitary nodule of juvenile fibromatosis removed from the right orbit and was asymptomatic 2 3/4 years postoperatively. 
Ultrasonic detection of parathyroid adenomas. High-resolution real time sonography was used to evaluate patients with suspected primary hyperparathyroidism. A total of 12 consecutive patients was scanned pre-operatively. The sensitivity of the procedure was 92% and the specificity 97%. In our hospital sonography is the procedure of choice for localizing enlarged parathyroid glands prior to surgical exploration. 
A comparison between heparin and low-dose aspirin as adjunctive therapy with tissue plasminogen activator for acute myocardial infarction. Heparin-Aspirin Reperfusion Trial (HART) Investigators BACKGROUND. We report the results of the Heparin-Aspirin Reperfusion Trial, a collaborative study comparing early intravenous heparin with oral aspirin as adjunctive treatment when recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is used for coronary thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction. METHODS. Two hundred five patients were randomly assigned to receive either immediate and then continuous intravenous heparin (starting with a 5000-unit bolus; n = 106) or immediate and then daily oral aspirin (80 mg; n = 99) together with rt-PA (100 mg intravenously over a six-hour period) initiated within six hours of the onset of symptoms. We evaluated the patency of the infarct-related artery by angiography 7 to 24 hours after beginning rt-PA infusion, the frequency of reocclusion of the artery by repeat angiography on day 7, and ischemic or hemorrhagic complications during the hospital stay. RESULTS. At the time of the first angiogram, 82 percent of the infarct-related arteries in the patients assigned to heparin were patent, as compared with only 52 percent in the aspirin group (P less than 0.0001). Of the initially patent vessels, 88 percent remained patent after seven days in the heparin group, as compared with 95 percent in the aspirin group (P not significant). The numbers of hemorrhagic events (18 in the heparin and 15 in the aspirin group) and recurrent ischemic events (8 in the heparin and 2 in the aspirin group) were similar in the two groups. CONCLUSIONS. Coronary patency rates associated with rt-PA are higher with early concomitant systemic heparin treatment than with concomitant low-dose oral aspirin. This observation has important implications for clinical practice and should be considered in the design and interpretation of clinical trials involving coronary thrombolytic therapy. 
Impaired binding properties of thyroxine-binding globulin in hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease. To determine the factors underlying the apparent reduction in binding ability of thyroxine-binding globulin in hepatocellular carcinoma, hormone-binding characteristics were further examined in patients with this disease and in control subjects. No differences in affinity constants with respect to triodothyronine or serum thyroxine-binding globulin from hepatocellular carcinoma, cirrhotic and normal subjects were found. The affinity for thyroxine was significantly reduced in hepatocellular carcinoma (0.41 +/- 0.13 x 10(10) mol-1) and cirrhotic (0.65 +/- 0.1 x 10(10) mol-1) patients compared with normal subjects (0.94 +/- 0.7 x 10(10) mol-1). Investigations carried out on liver tissue obtained from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease showed that thyroxine-binding globulin within tumor tissue was elevated and bound less exogenous tracer hormone compared with that obtained from nontumor tissue. Tumor-derived thyroxine-binding globulin with altered binding properties is, at least partly, responsible for the abnormal behavior of the serum protein in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Characterization of liver epithelial cells transfected with myc and/or ras oncogenes. While many liver tumors contain activated myc and ras oncogenes, the mechanisms by which these genes contribute to cellular transformation is poorly understood. Activated versions of the cellular oncogenes, c-myc and/or c-H-ras were transfected into normal rat liver epithelial cells to identify cellular pathways that are altered in the cells containing the oncogenes. The results of these and other investigations indicate that the biological properties associated with the transfection of c-myc include immortalization, reduced contact inhibition of growth, activation of phospholipase A2-mediated pathways, increased sensitivity to transformation with a ras gene, and greatly increased sensitivity to growth factors. The biological properties associated with the transfection of the ras gene include morphological transformation, anchorage-independent growth, tumorigenicity, increased phosphatidylinositol metabolism, the induction of growth-factor processing and secretion, which leads to (exogenous) growth factor-independent tumor growth, and a marked resistance to normal inhibitors of growth such as TGF-beta. It is proposed that the complementary actions of the myc and ras genes in cellular transformation may be related to the ras-induced secretion of autocrine growth factors by cells sensitized to their effects by the myc gene. The increased stimulus for growth coupled to a ras-induced insensitivity to growth inhibitors may lead to clonal expansion of these cells and tumor development. 
Fatal tonsillar herniation in pseudotumor cerebri. A 27-year-old woman with pseudotumor cerebri died after lumbar puncture secondary to tonsillar herniation. Five years earlier she had a respiratory arrest after lumbar puncture. MRI and autopsy ruled out the presence of an Arnold-Chiari malformation or a mass lesion of the posterior fossa, but midsagittal views suggested the presence of low-lying cerebellar tonsils. 
Mastoid surgery in childhood. The presenting features and operative findings in 105 patients aged 16 years or less undergoing mastoid surgery are reviewed. In 94% surgery was for chronic otomastoiditis, usually acquired, and associated with cholesteatoma in 64%. Post-operative otorrhoea persisted beyond 6 months in 44% and contralateral disease required some form of surgical procedure in 20%. Post-operative hearing thresholds were improved or unchanged in the majority of patients, most of whom underwent cortical or modified radical mastoidectomy. An improvement in the therapeutic results of mastoid surgery in childhood is clearly necessary, but requires a greater understanding of the aetiology of chronic middle ear disease. 
Primary small-cell carcinoma of the esophagus. Report of 11 cases and review of the literature. Primary small-cell carcinoma of the esophagus is an uncommon esophageal malignancy. This report details the clinical and pathologic aspects of 11 cases seen at our institution over 20 years, as well as 123 other cases reported in the literature. Small-cell carcinomas of the esophagus show considerable histologic heterogeneity. Neurosecretory granules can be found in the majority of cases and some show evidence of multidifferentiation. Like primary small-cell cancers of the lung, those in the esophagus are highly aggressive, are usually associated with spread at the time of diagnosis, and have a dismal prognosis regardless of treatment. The possible origin of this interesting variety of esophageal neoplasm is also discussed. 
Vulvar vestibulitis: prevalence and historic features in a general gynecologic practice population. All gynecologic patients seen by the author during a 6-month period were questioned and examined by means of a swab test to determine the prevalence of vulvar vestibulitis and the normal variation in sensitivity of vestibular skin. Of 210 patients, 78 (37%) had some degree of positive testing. A total of 31 patients (15%) were found to fulfill the definition of vulvar vestibulitis. A questionnaire was administered to these patients as well as to seven patients in whom vestibulitis had been previously diagnosed. A total of 50% had always had pain, most since their teenage years. Their history was not suggestive of a cyclic or remittent pattern of symptoms. Those with secondary dyspareunia or resolution of pain were usually either in a post partum phase or had group B streptococcus or human papillomavirus. The two most severe cases of vestibulitis occurred after use of fluoroucil cream. A total of 32% had some female relative with dyspareunia or tampon intolerance, raising the issue of a genetic predisposition. 
Posterior cortical dementia with alexia: neurobehavioural, MRI, and PET findings. A progressive disorder of relatively focal but asymmetric biposterior dysfunction is described in a 54 year old right handed male. Initial clinical features included letter-by-letter alexia, visual anomia, acalculia, mild agraphia, constructional apraxia, and visuospatial compromise. Serial testing demonstrated relentless deterioration with additional development of transcortical sensory aphasia, Gerstmann's tetrad, and severe visuoperceptual impairment. Amnesia was not an early clinical feature. Judgment, personality, insight, and awareness remained preserved throughout most of the clinical course. Extinction in the right visual field to bilateral stimulation was the sole neurological abnormality. Early CT was normal and late MRI showed asymmetrical bioccipitoparietal atrophy with greater involvement of the left hemisphere. Results from positron emission tomography (PET) showed bilaterally asymmetric (left greater than right) occipitotemporoparietal hypometabolism. The metabolic decrement was strikingly asymmetric with a 50% reduction in glucose consumption confined to the left occipital cortex. The picture of occipitotemporoparietal compromise verified by MRI, PET, and neurobehavioural testing would be unusual for such degenerative dementias as Alzheimer's (AD) and Pick's disease, although atypical AD with predominant occipital lobe involvement cannot be excluded. This case supports the concepts of posterior cortical dementia (PCD) as a clinically distinct entity and for the first time documents its corresponding metabolic deficit using PET. 
Acute phosphate depletion dissociates hormonal stimulated second messengers in osteoblast-like cells. The acute effect (24 h) of either phosphate depletion or phosphate surfeit on hormonal stimulated signal transduction systems was studied in the osteoblastic cell line UMR-106. Elevation of intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]in), induced by different calciotropic hormones (PTH, prostaglandin E2, endothelin) was blunted by acute phosphate depletion, whereas at high inorganic phosphate (Pi) concentrations the rise in [Ca2+]in was augmented. Basal [Ca2+]in was not altered by either Pi depletion or Pi excess. The effect of acute phosphate depletion on hormonal mediated [Ca2+]in rise was not observed in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ suggesting that under these conditions, the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores, is not affected. Also, nonhormonal calcium entry pathways such as depolarization-activated calcium channels or protein kinase C-activated Ca2+ channels were not affected by acute phosphate depletion. cAMP accumulation in the cells, either through receptor or nonreceptor-mediated mechanisms, increased under low Pi conditions and decreased as Pi concentration in the culture media was progressively increased from 0 to 2 mM during 24 h of incubation. Changes in Pi concentration had no effect on basal cAMP generation by the cells. The facilitative effect of acute Pi depletion on agonist-induced cAMP accumulation could be demonstrated in both the presence and absence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (0.2 mM). PTH receptor binding assessed with [Nle8 Nle18 Tyr34] bovine PTH (1-34) NH2 was not altered by phosphate depletion. We conclude that exposure of osteoblasts to different Pi environments modulates the second messenger responses to hormones in a reciprocal fashion so that acute phosphate depletion down-regulates [Ca2+]in signals while augmenting cAMP generation and vice versa. Inasmuch as bone resorption processes can be modulated by Ca2+ and cAMP the data presented herein suggest that the altered bone resorptive response to calciotropic hormones (e.g. PTH), under surfeit or deficit of phosphate, is mediated by changes in [Ca2+]in and cAMP. 
Acute cholangitis secondary to hepatolithiasis. In a series of 88 patients with acute cholangitis secondary to hepatolithiasis, 26 (30%) required emergency therapeutic intervention because of septicemic shock (n = 15), persistent fever (n = 8), or spreading peritonitis (n = 3). Analysis was made to define factors that predisposed to failure of conservative treatment and characteristics that could predict the need for emergency biliary decompression. The age, incidence of concomitant medical diseases, previous biliary surgery, positive blood culture, bacterial strains resistant to antibiotics used, and multiplicity of bacterial strains in bile cultures in patients who required emergency intervention were similar to these factors in patients who had elective operations after successful conservative management. The incidence of intrahepatic segmental obstruction by stones or strictures was similar, but many more patients who required emergency intervention had concomitant extrahepatic obstruction due to impacted common ductal stones or strictures. Logistic regression analysis of clinical, hematological, and biochemical data showed that maximum pulse rate within 24 hours of presentation (greater than 100 beats per minute, relative risk, 2.8) and platelet count at the time of admission (less than 150 x 10(9)/L, relative risk, 5.2) were the factors with independent significance in predicting the need for emergency therapeutic procedures. This finding may serve as a guideline for identifying high-risk patients for early intervention. 
Update on the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The major components of atherosclerotic plaque, ultimately responsible for clinical effects, are deposited lipids--mostly cholesteryl esters and cholesterol, derived largely from the lower-density lipoproteins of the blood--and proliferated, modified arterial smooth muscle cells with their synthesized connective tissue products. Advanced plaques vary widely in the proportion of the two components, but evidence indicates that lipid deposition--especially of lipoprotein elements--often occurs in the lesion-prone intimal areas of the artery prior to the buildup of smooth muscle cells. The 1980s were remarkably productive for investigators who study the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. We now know of the many forms of lower-density lipoproteins, i.e., low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), some of which are more likely to be associated with accelerated atherosclerosis and some of which are more likely to be influenced by diet. Among these forms of LDL and VLDL are LDL-1, beta-VLDL, and Lp(a). Work has been reported implicating various alterations of endothelial function in the permeability of the arterial endothelial barrier in the transport of these low-density, cholesterol-rich macromolecules. Of possibly greater interest is the developing evidence that such proliferation-stimulating molecules as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) can be produced by a number of cells likely to be involved in the progression of atherosclerotic plaque. In addition to platelets, these include activated monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages, injured endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells, which can undergo an autocrine conversion to PDGF synthesis--possibly stimulated by LDL from hyperlipidemic serum. Leukotrienes and other endothelium-associated regulatory molecules may also take part in the paracrine and autocrine mechanisms of stimulating smooth-muscle-cell proliferation. Additional recent developments that have led to a better understanding of atherosclerotic pathogenesis have occurred. The first is evidence of the involvement of oxidized LDL and its apolipoprotein B in atherogenesis. Research indicates that antioxidants have a suppressive effect on atherogenesis when oxidized LDL has been involved in lesion development. The data linking the development of autoimmune reactions to these oxidatively altered lipoproteins are also impressive. Further, there is increasing evidence that atherogenesis in nonhuman primates and in people in whom chronic sustained circulating immune complexes are involved is likely to be accelerated, even when few or no classic risk factors are present. These lesions appear to represent a distinct microarchitectural form of concentric and transmural atherosclerosis that is better classified as "atheroarteritis.". 
Lack of predictive value of the APACHE II score in hypoalbuminemic patients. The APACHE II score predicts mortality in severely ill patients. This score does not account for the serum albumin level. Ninety-three patients (28 with serum albumin levels less than 2.5 g/dL [group I] and 65 with serum albumin levels greater than or equal to 2.5 [group II]) were retrospectively reviewed. Patients were comparable in age, APACHE II score, and compliance with required protein needs. Patients with severe hypoalbuminemia had nearly double the death rate of patients with mildly low or normal albumin concentrations (54% compared with 29%). The death rate in the severely hypoalbuminemic patients was 5.1-fold higher than would be predicted by their APACHE II score. The death rate in those patients with mildly low or normal albumin levels had only a 1.9-fold higher rate than would be predicted by their APACHE II score. It is concluded that severe hypoalbuminemia increases the risk of death significantly higher than would be predicted by the APACHE II score. APACHE II score is not as accurate in a severely hypoalbuminemic population. 
Preservation of aortic valve in type A aortic dissection complicated by aortic regurgitation. Two hundred fifty-two patients underwent operation for type A aortic dissection at Stanford University Medical Center from 1963 to 1987 and Duke University Medical Center from 1975 to 1988. Sixty-seven percent had an acute type A dissection and 33% had a chronic type A dissection. In addition to repair or replacement of the ascending aorta, 121 patients (48%) required an aortic valve procedure. Valve resuspension was performed in 46 (39 acute type A and 7 chronic type A), with an operative mortality rate of 13% +/- 5% (+/- 70% confidence limits), and aortic valve replacement in 75 (36 acute type A and 39 chronic type A), with an operative mortality rate of 20% +/- 5% (p = not significant versus resuspension). The operative mortality rate for patients requiring only repair or replacement of the ascending aorta was 32% +/- 4%. Indications for valve replacement included coexistent (nonacute) aortic valve disease, Marfan's syndrome, annuloaortic ectasia, and cases in which successful resuspension could not be accomplished. The overall actuarial survival rate for all patients was 59% +/- 3% (+/- 1 standard error of the mean), 40% +/- 4%, and 25% +/- 5% at 5, 10, and 15 years, respectively. Survival rates at these same times for patients with valve resuspension were 67% +/- 8%, 52% +/- 10%, and 26% +/- 19%, respectively; for patients who required aortic valve replacement, these survival rates were 70% +/- 5%, 39% +/- 8%, and 21% +/- 11%; finally, patients who received only an ascending aortic procedure had survival probabilities of 51% +/- 5%, 37% +/- 6%, and 23% +/- 6% (p = not significant versus resuspension versus aortic valve replacement). Multivariate analysis showed advanced age (p less than 0.001), previous cardiac or aortic operation (p less than 0.001), more preoperative dissection complications (p = 0.002), and earlier operative date (p = 0.038) to be the only significant, independent factors that increased the likelihood of early or late death. The type of aortic valve procedure (resuspension versus aortic valve replacement versus none) was not a significant predictor of mortality. Two of 46 patients with valve resuspension required late aortic valve replacement (freedom from aortic valve replacement: 100% and 80% +/- 13% at 5 and 10 years, respectively), as did 4 of 75 patients with initial aortic valve replacement (freedom from repeat aortic valve replacement: 98% +/- 2% and 73% +/- 13%, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Fetal breathing and development of control of breathing. Technical advances during the last several decades have greatly facilitated research into fetal physiology and behavior, specifically fetal breathing (FB). Breathing movements have been demonstrated in the fetuses of every mammalian species investigated and appear to be part of normal fetal development. In this review we focus on the methods of measuring FB and on some of the problems associated with these measurements and their interpretation. We also review fetal behavior, the role of the peripheral and central chemoreceptors in spontaneous FB, the fetal respiratory response to hypercapnia and hypoxia, and the transition to continuous breathing at birth. It is clear that in many ways the control of breathing movements in utero differs from that after birth. In particular, inhibitory influences are much more prominent before than after birth. Possibly this is due to the unique fetal situation, in which conservation of energy may be more important than any advantage breathing activity imparts to the fetus. 
Histological and immunohistochemical study of the gall bladder lesion in primary sclerosing cholangitis. The histological features and type of mononuclear cell infiltrate in gall bladders from six patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were studied using routine staining techniques and immunohistochemistry. Control studies were performed using the gall bladders from six patients (age and sex matched) with chronic cholecystitis and four with primary biliary cirrhosis. A range of histological abnormalities was present in gall bladders from patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis including a mild to moderate degree of epithelial hyperplasia, pseudogland formation, and mononuclear cell infiltrate of the epithelium; moderate to severe chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate and fibrosis affecting the superficial and deep layers of the gall bladder wall; and minimal smooth muscle hypertrophy. These abnormalities were non-specific and were also present in gall bladders from patients with chronic cholecystitis and primary biliary cirrhosis. Vasculitis and granulomas were not present in the patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. Immunohistochemistry showed that the superficial and deep mononuclear cell infiltrate in primary sclerosing cholangitis gall bladders was composed predominantly of lymphocytes, in contrast to chronic cholecystitis where macrophages were found in similar or greater numbers. Moreover, T lymphocytes (activated and resting) were present throughout the lymphocytic infiltrate and were apposed to the base and interdigitated between the biliary epithelial cells in significantly greater numbers than in chronic cholecystitis gall bladders. B lymphocytes were present only in lymphoid follicles. Comparative studies using liver biopsy specimens from three of the primary sclerosing cholangitis patients showed a similar T lymphocyte portal tract infiltrate. 
Testolactone, sulindac, warfarin, and vitamin K1 for unresectable desmoid tumors. Ten patients with large inoperable desmoid tumors in various body locations were treated with testolactone. Four tumors (40%) responded with major regressions, i.e., more than 50% reduction in volume. Eight patients received nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (indomethacin, sulindac, or sulindac with warfarin and vitamin K1 [Mephyton]) for periods of 2 to 91 months. There was one major regression, one partial regression, and three instances of tumor growth arrest over periods up to 8 years. Seven patients were treated with nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs concurrent with or after testolactone or tamoxifen. There were five major regressions and one partial regression with extensive central necrosis of an enormous intra-abdominal tumor. The last patient has been treated for only 12 months, with no change in tumor volume. It appears that estrogens function as growth factors for desmoid tumors, and that minimization of these effects inhibits tumor growth in some, but not all, cases. In those instances where antiestrogens were not effective as single agents, the tumors usually responded to subsequent nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drug therapy. Withdrawal of estrogen may be followed by inhibition of transcription of genes that support tumor cell proliferation, and sulindac and indomethacin may augment these effects by inhibiting prostaglandin and cyclic AMP synthesis and the activity of protein kinase C. Warfarin may function as a protonophore to acidify the cytoplasm and prevent the alkalinization that is necessary to initiate DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression, again an impairment of the transcription process. 
The clinical heterogeneity of hypertension. More than the character of the blood pressure elevation, the cardiovascular risk profile should be the prognostic guide for antihypertensive therapeutic decision-making. Hypertension tends to occur in association with other risk factors which augment the risk and need to be considered in evaluating the hazard of hypertension, the urgency for treatment, and the choice of treatment. Elevated blood pressure is often accompanied by blood lipid abnormality, obesity, electrocardiograph (ECG) abnormality, glucose intolerance, and elevated fibrinogen and hematocrit, all of which enhance the risk of cardiovascular sequelae of hypertension. Hypertensive patients at particularly increased risk of cardiovascular events are those with an increased total/HDL-cholesterol ratio, ECG abnormality, impaired glucose tolerance, or the cigarette smoking habit. The risk of a cardiovascular event among hypertensive patients varies over more than a 10-fold range depending on the number of these coexistent risk factors. Multivariate risk formulations are available to allow a composite estimate of the joint conditional probability of a cardiovascular outcome in hypertensive patients with multiple risk factors. Since some antihypertensive agents can adversely affect blood lipids, glucose tolerance, or uric acid values, the risk profile must also be taken into account in choosing the optimal antihypertensive therapy. Also, hypertension is commonly associated with angina, myocardial infarction, left ventricular hypertrophy, stroke, or cardiac failure. These too must be taken under consideration in judging the urgency for treatment and the choice of agents. Thus, hypertension is best regarded as a component of a cardiovascular risk profile in implementing optimal therapy and in assessing its efficacy. 
Comparative efficacy of daptomycin, vancomycin, and cloxacillin for the treatment of Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis in rats and role of test conditions in this determination. The in vivo efficacy of daptomycin, a new cell wall-active anti-gram-positive-bacterial agent, was compared to those of cloxacillin and vancomycin in a rat model of Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. Both methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA) and methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) strains were used. When therapy was initiated early (8 h) after infection, at the time when valvular bacterial counts were relatively low (approximately 10(6) CFU/g of vegetation), 3 days of therapy was found to be effective against the MSSA strains whatever the antibiotic regimen. In contrast, when the onset of therapy was delayed up to 15 h after infection, so that higher bacterial counts could develop on the valves (approximately 10(9) CFU/g of vegetation), a longer period of treatment (6 days) was required to cure infection. Under these conditions after 3 days of therapy, daptomycin was more effective than cloxacillin and vancomycin against the MSSA strains. Similarly, daptomycin showed a greater activity than vancomycin against the MRSA strain after 3 days of treatment, but after 6 days both antibiotics were equally effective. Decreasing doses of daptomycin showed decreasing activity: 10 mg/kg of body weight every 12 h (q12h) was better than 5 mg/kg q12h, whereas 5 mg/kg q24h (providing drug levels in blood detectable only during the first 12 h) failed to cure infection. In vitro, daptomycin was highly bactericidal at high concentrations (25 and 60 micrograms/ml, corresponding to peak levels in serum after doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg, respectively) and bacteriostatic at lower concentrations (0.5 to 2.5 micrograms/ml, corresponding to trough levels in serum). 
9p monosomy in a patient with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (GTS) is a genetic disorder characterized by multiple motor and vocal tics, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and attention-deficit disorder. Family studies support the presence of an autosomal dominant gene; however, to date, an assignment for the GTS locus has not been made. We present the case of a boy with GTS and a deletion of the terminal portion of the short arm of chromosome 9, del(9)(qter----p2304:). 
Are there interactions and relations between genetic and environmental factors predisposing to high blood pressure? An overview of published observations suggests that both genetic predisposition and environment work together to produce hypertension in most persons. High blood pressure before age 55 occurs 3.8 times more often among persons with a strong positive family history of high blood pressure. Much of the total variability in blood pressure in modern populations seems attributable to genetic factors. Estimates of the proportion of the variance attributable to all genetic factors (heritability [H2]) vary from 25% in pedigree studies to 65% in twin studies for sitting diastolic blood pressure. Several biochemical traits associated with high blood pressure are highly genetic (H2, 78-84%) and may help elucidate the pathophysiology of high blood pressure. While pertinent environmental factors such as salt intake, alcohol use, and amount of exercise also correlate significantly among relatives, only 7% of the total variance of diastolic blood pressure seems attributable to all shared environmental factors in family households. Thus most familial aggregation of high blood pressure appears to be due to genes rather than shared family environment. Practical benefit may result from identifying familial predisposition in multiple siblings with high blood pressure before age 55 and lipid abnormalities (labeled "familial dyslipidemic hypertension"). About 12% of high blood pressure patients have familial dyslipidemic hypertension and also have high risk of early coronary heart disease. Hyperinsulinemia and central obesity as well as high triglycerides and low high density lipoprotein cholesterol are prominent features of familial dyslipidemic hypertension. 
Piezoelectric biliary lithotripsy: an in vitro study of factors affecting gallstone fragmentation. Factors affecting the fragmentation of gallstones with piezoelectric lithotripsy were studied in vitro, with a goal of providing data that will help direct treatment with piezoelectric lithotriptors. Two hundred fifty-seven stones from 50 patients were treated with the EDAP LT.O1 lithotriptor until all fragments measured 2 mm or less in diameter. The fragmentation process was observed, and two patterns were evident: central fragmentation and peripheral chipping. The majority of stones fragmented centrally. Fragmentation characteristics in different stones from the same patient were compared with those from different patients. Stone diameter, shock-wave frequency and power, and CT appearance were examined and correlated with fragmentation. Gallstones from the same patient showed uniform fragmentation patterns and consistent relationships between fragmentation time and gallstone size, shock-wave frequency, and power. In stones from the same patient, gallstone size had a marked effect on fragmentation time, which correlated with the cube of the stone diameter, and shock-wave frequency and power had a proportional inverse linear relationship with fragmentation time. When controlling for stone size and treatment parameters, stones from multiple patients showed marked differences in fragmentation time, and because of this, poor correlation between stone size and fragmentation time. Stones grouped according to CT pattern and attenuation showed wide variation and no correlation between CT characteristics and fragmentation pattern or fragmentation time. Our results show that a great variability exists in fragmentation time of gallstones, making it impossible to accurately predict fragmentation time at a given stone size. Only rough estimates of longer fragmentation times with increasing stone size can be made. The linear relationships between shock-wave frequency or power and fragmentation time allow one to easily predict the effect of manipulating these variables and to tailor treatment to each patient's tolerance. Finally, CT appearance does not appear to be predictive of fragmentation outcome. 
Prospects for the use of antagonists to the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor to prevent post-angioplasty restenosis and thrombosis. Despite many advances since its inception in humans in 1977, coronary angioplasty continues to be limited by the problems of abrupt arterial closure and late restenosis. Excessive platelet deposition at the site of angioplasty undoubtedly plays an important role in the pathophysiology of both of these problems. Monoclonal antibodies and snake venom-derived or synthetic peptides directed against a common protein recognition sequence on the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor are currently in the early stages of preclinical and clinical testing and hold promise of preventing abrupt closure and restenosis by inhibiting platelet function. Whether any of these agents will eventually be commonly used in clinical practice will depend on their effects on the complex pathophysiology of these problems and on their safety profile when administered to patients who are likely to receive other antithrombotic medications and who are instrumented for coronary angioplasty. 
Muscle damage induced by eccentric contractions of 25% strain. Contractile and morphological properties were measured in the rabbit tibialis anterior muscle 1 h after isometric contraction (IC), passive stretch (PS), or eccentric contraction (EC). Maximal tetanic tension (Po) was reduced after 30 min of PS (P less than 0.001), IC (P less than 0.001), or EC (P less than 0.0001). However, the magnitude of the force deficit was a function of the treatment method. After 30 min of cyclic PS, Po decreased by 13%, whereas after IC or EC, Po decreased by 31 and 69%, respectively. The time course of tension decline in the various groups suggested that the EC-induced injury occurred during the first few minutes of treatment. Although the morphology of samples from the PS and IC groups appeared normal, eccentrically exercised muscles exhibited portions of abnormally large fibers (diam greater than or equal to 110 microns) when viewed in cross section. Examination of 231 such fibers from 6 muscles revealed that all enlarged fibers were exclusively of the fast-twitch glycolytic fiber type. Although no ultrastructural abnormalities were observed in any of the muscles from the IC or PS groups, a significant portion of the fibers in the EC group displayed various degrees of disorganization of the sarcomeric band pattern. Taken together, these studies highlight the importance of fiber oxidative capacity in EC-induced injury, which may be related to the damage mechanism. 
Diaphragmatic performance during recovery from acute ventilatory failure in Guillain-Barre syndrome and myasthenia gravis. Diaphragmatic muscle performance during acute ventilatory failure due to Guillain-Barre syndrome and myasthenia gravis was assessed to evaluate (1) diaphragmatic function during weaning from ventilatory support and (2) diaphragmatic tension-time integral (TTdi) during ventilatory failure. We used a multilumen nasogastric tube and a pneumotachograph to measure transdiaphragmatic pressure per breath (Pdi), maximum transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdimax), tidal volume (VT), and inspiratory time fraction during 74 spontaneous breathing trials in nine patients. Diaphragmatic performance was poor in all patients. The Pdi, Pdimax, and VT improved significantly, but values for Pdi and Pdimax remained low even after weaning. Improvement in Pdimax was the best predictor of recovery (r = 0.48; p less than 0.001). Maximal inspiratory force correlated with Pdimax (r = 0.48; p less than 0.005), but FVC did not. The TTdi rarely exceeded the expected fatigue threshold of 0.15 in spite of the patient's inability to sustain ventilation. Although our patients demonstrated diaphragmatic weakness, TTdi did not demonstrate diaphragmatic fatigue. 
Cavernomas of the central nervous system: clinical and neuroimaging manifestations in 47 patients. Forty seven cases of central nervous system cavernous angioma (21 males and 26 females) are described. The main clinical signs were epilepsy and brainstem syndromes. Digital subtraction intra-arterial angiography, when used, failed to reveal cavernoma. CT detected many of the lesions, but the most successful supplementary diagnostic procedure was MRI which produces highly characteristic images of cavernous angioma. The diagnosis of cavernous angioma was confirmed in the 18 cases in which the tumour was removed surgically. 
A new approach to the resection of pulmonary osteosarcoma metastases. Results of aggressive metastasectomy. Pulmonary metastases are the primary cause of death from bone and soft-tissue sarcoma. Recognition that even multiple resections of metastases can improve survival has led to a more aggressive surgical approach to these patients. The authors instituted an aggressive approach and a new technique and retrospectively analyzed the results of multiple, pulmonary metastasectomies for pulmonary metastases in 34 patients, 21 of whom had osteogenic sarcoma (OGS). A number of cases were referred from other institutions, where they had been considered inoperable because of extensive or recurrent disease. Using lateral thoracotomies, laser technique with minimal parenchymal excision, and thin gloves for palpation, aggressive metastectomy was carried out. A mean of 3.1 thoracotomies were performed, with an average of 10.6 nodules resected per thoracotomy. Operative morbidity and mortality were minimal. Evaluation of potential prognostic factors revealed no statistically significant survival difference on the basis of disease-free interval (DFI), number of nodules resected, number of thoracotomies, or size of largest nodule resected. There was a clear trend toward decreased survival of patients with larger nodules (greater than 2 cm), but because of the small number of patients in this group, no firm conclusions can be drawn. Five-year survival was 49% for the study group as a whole, and 39% for the OGS patients. Aggressive surgical resection of pulmonary metastases from bone and soft-tissue sarcoma should be considered when there is control of local disease, no evidence of extrapulmonary metastasis, and adequate postresection pulmonary reserve. The presence of bilateral, extensive, or recurrent disease is not a contraindication to thoracotomy. 
Adult chronic lead intoxication. A clinical review. A stained-glass artisan with depression and a retired junkyard worker with congestive cardiomyopathy had increased mobilizable body burdens of lead by calcium ethylenediaminetetaacetic acid testing. Although both patients improved with several months of intramuscular chelation therapy, the efficacy of such therapy in chronic lead poisoning is controversial. Recognition of unusual manifestations of chronic lead poisoning may at least interrupt further exposure, even if specific therapy is not undertaken. 
Translaminar facet joint screw fixation for lumbar and lumbosacral fusion. A clinical and biomechanical study. Various systems of supplementing bone grafts with internal fixation in the lumbosacral spine have been used in an effort to improve fusion rates. This study reports biomechanical data of cyclic loading cadaveric spines instrumented with translaminar facet screws as well as early clinical results on this technique. Static loading tests comparing uninstrumented and instrumented spinal motion units show that a ninefold increase in flexion load is necessary for constant displacement after facet screw fixation. Repetitive loading tests show only a small decrease in stiffness of instrumented segments even after 5,000 cycles. To date, 35 patients have undergone fusion by this technique as performed by one surgeon. After excluding Workers' Compensation cases and cases with less than 2 years follow-up, there were 18 cases available for review. Twelve of these 18 cases were two-level fusions. Ten patients underwent concomitant discectomy or nerve root decompression. There were no cases of iatrogenic neurologic injury or pseudoarthrosis. It is concluded that translaminar facet screws have a sound biomechanical basis and are a valuable addition to lumbar fusion procedures. 
Autoantibodies to the presumptive cytoplasmic domain of platelet glycoprotein IIIa in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura. Chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an autoimmune disorder due to autoantibodies against platelets that result in their destruction. In some patients, these autoantibodies bind to platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIIa. With the aim of better defining the antigenic epitopes, plasma from 13 selected patients with chronic ITP known to have anti-GPIIb/IIIa autoantibodies was tested for reactivity with nine synthetic peptides corresponding to different regions of the GP IIIa molecule. Of these plasmas, five bound significantly (P less than .001) with either peptide 8 (amino acids 721-744) or peptide 9 (amino acids 742-762), which together form most of the carboxyterminal region presumed to be the cytoplasmic domain. Three of these positive plasmas, were tested further. In two of these positive plasmas, the anti-peptide antibodies represented greater than 80% of the detectable circulating autoantibody. To further evaluate the importance of the carboxyterminal region as an antigenic site, the chronic ITP plasmas were tested against Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with GPIIb and either whole GPIIIa or GPIIIa lacking amino acids 728 to 762. Ten of the 13 plasmas required the presence of this region for significant autoantibody binding. We conclude that the carboxyterminal region is an important area for stimulating antiplatelet autoantibody formation in some patients with chronic ITP. It is not known whether these autoantibodies to the presumed cytoplasmic domain play an important role in the pathogenesis of the disease or occur as a secondary phenomenon during the course of platelet destruction. 
Reversible and irreversible elongation of ischemic, infarcted, and healed myocardium in response to increases in preload and afterload. BACKGROUND. Left ventricular aneurysm formation after myocardial infarction (MI) has been associated with elongation of infarcted tissue in response to wall stress. Such elongation most commonly occurs in acutely infarcted or partially healed regions during the early post-MI period; however, recent reports have indicated that mature (15-week-old) healed infarct regions also undergo elongation after stress. METHODS AND RESULTS. To assess factors contributing to post-MI left ventricular aneurysm formation, we subjected isolated strips (n = 50) of rabbit myocardial tissue from acutely ischemic (noninfarcted left ventricular), acutely infarcted (24 hours after MI), and healed infarct (3 and 15 weeks after MI) regions to a range of loading conditions and measured the reversible and irreversible length changes that occurred. The isolated strips were repetitively stretched for 1 hour at 4 Hz to impose cyclical physiological peak and resting stresses of 2.0 and 0.2 g/mm2. During a second hour, either peak stress ("afterload") or resting stress ("preload") was tripled, and the increase in strip length (strain) was measured. During a third hour, peak and resting stresses were returned to the initial values to assess the reversibility of length changes occurring during increased load. Elongation was expressed as the increase in natural strain from the first hour. Increasing afterload caused similar irreversible length increases of 4-5%/hr in acutely infarcted and 3- and 15-week-old healed infarct strips; acutely ischemic tissue length increased by 7.4%/hr (p less than 0.05 versus acutely infarcted tissue and scars). Increasing preload in acutely ischemic and acutely infarcted tissue caused a reversible length increase of less than 1%/hr. (Scar strips were not tested for the effect of preload.) CONCLUSIONS. Since an irreversible length increase may represent an early event in aneurysm formation, our results suggest that 1) afterload increases are more likely to lead to aneurysm development than preload increases, 2) acutely ischemic tissue is the most vulnerable to increased afterload, and 3) for a given wall stress level, healing scar tissue is as susceptible to irreversible length changes as is acutely infarcted tissue. The observation that even mature post-MI scar elongated in response to increases in afterload implies that long-term pharmacological management of afterload in post-MI patients may be beneficial in preventing tissue elongation and aneurysm formation and that factors that increase wall stress (e.g., hypertension and exercise stress) have the potential to promote aneurysm formation in healed infarct scars. 
Status epilepticus in benign rolandic epilepsy manifesting as anterior operculum syndrome. We report the fourth case of partial status epilepticus (SE) in benign epilepsy of childhood with rolandic spikes (BECRS). The child suffered long-lasting attacks involving the mouth and pharynx, clinically manifest as speech arrest, sialorrhea, and drooling. Both clinical and electroencephalogram (EEG) data were compatible with the diagnosis of BECRS. Only during SE was the clinical picture similar to that observed in the operculum or Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome. SE remission was obtained with the usual antiepileptic drug therapy (diazepam, clobazam, valproate). EEG records showed additional patterns of continuous spike-waves during slow sleep and specific inhibition and blocking of interictal centrotemporal spikes by mouth and/or tongue voluntary movements. 
Differences in electrophysiological substrate in patients with coronary artery disease and cardiac arrest or ventricular tachycardia. Insights from endocardial mapping and signal-averaged electrocardiography. BACKGROUND. Many studies have combined patients with hemodynamically well-tolerated ventricular tachycardia (VT) and those with cardiac arrest (CA) as a single, homogenous group. Recent studies suggest that these two groups have different electrophysiological substrates and responses to therapy. Most of these studies, however, enrolled patients with a variety of cardiac diagnoses. METHODS AND RESULTS. We used signal-averaged electrocardiography (SAECG) and endocardial catheter mapping to define the electrophysiological substrate in patients with coronary artery disease and VT or CA and correlate the results of the two methods. We also examined the usefulness of SAECG in CA patients to differentiate those with inducible arrhythmias from those who are noninducible. VT patients were more likely to have had a prior myocardial infarction (p = 0.0005) and to have inducible arrhythmias (p = 0.0001) than were CA patients. The induced arrhythmias in patients who presented with VT was VT in more than 90% of cases, whereas in CA patients, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (PMVT) accounted for one third of induced arrhythmias. Mean filtered QRS duration was longer (135 versus 120 msec) and the terminal QRS voltage was smaller (20 versus 34 microV) in VT than in CA patients (p less than 0.01). Sixty-three percent of CA patients and 87% of VT patients had abnormal SAECG (p = 0.001). VT patients had more extensive endocardial abnormalities and more abnormal (53% versus 40%, p = 0.002), fractionated (8% versus 3%, p = 0.02), late (17% versus 8%, p = 0.0003), and late abnormal or fractionated (14% versus 4%, p = 0.0001) sites than CA patients. VT patients had a greater duration of the longest electrogram (129 versus 109 msec, p = 0.0006) and total endocardial activation time (68 versus 54 msec, p = 0.009). Among CA patients, those with induced VT had more extensive substrate than did those with induced PMVT and were similar to VT patients with induced VT. Among CA patients, the trend for more patients with inducible VT (77%) or PMVT (55%) than noninducible patients (47%) to have an abnormal SAECG did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.14). The positive and negative predictive values of an abnormal SAECG were 77% and 44%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. VT patients have more extensive endocardial substrate than CA patients, which translates into greater and more frequent SAECG abnormalities. Among CA patients, there are significant differences in substrate between patients with induced VT and those with induced PMVT. SAECG is not useful in differentiating CA patients who have inducible VT or PMVT from those who do not. 
Long-term spinal administration of morphine in cancer and non-cancer pain: a retrospective study. Records of 313 patients who had been treated with spinal morphine via an implanted Port-A-Cath were reviewed. In 284 cases the Port-A-Cath was implanted for epidural delivery of morphine in patients with cancer-related pain. These patients were treated for a mean of 96 (range 1-1215) days. There was a wide variation in dose requirements, minimum daily dose ranging from 0.5 to 200 mg and maximum daily dose from 1 to 3072 mg. However, there was no clear trend to increasing dose as period of epidural morphine administration increased. The most frequent complications were pain on injection (12.0% incidence), occlusion of the portal system (10.9%), infection (8.1%) and leakage of administered morphine such that it did not all reach the epidural space (2.1%). In all but 1 case infections were limited to the area around the portal or along the catheter track. All infections resolved without sequelae following removal of the portal and/or administration of antibiotics. In 17 patients Port-A-Caths were implanted for the intrathecal delivery of morphine to control cancer-related pain. These patients also exhibited wide variations in morphine dose requirements. Port-A-Caths were also implanted for delivery of spinal morphine in 12 patients with chronic pain which was not related to cancer and which failed to respond to other therapies. These patients were treated for a mean of 155 (range 2-575) days. Port-A-Caths were removed from 7 of these patients, primarily due to infection (2 cases) and inadequate pain relief and pain on injection (2 cases). 
Ureteral pseudodiverticula: frequent association with uroepithelial malignancy. Ureteral pseudodiverticula are tiny outpouchings usually seen as incidental findings on retrograde urography during routine work-up for common urinary tract disorders. We report 37 patients with ureteral pseudodiverticula, of whom 17 (46%) had associated uroepithelial malignancy. Ureteral pseudodiverticula were diagnosed in all patients on excretory or retrograde urography as an incidental finding during evaluation for a variety of urologic symptoms and signs. All patients were assessed with urinalysis, urine culture, cystoscopy, and when indicated, ureteroscopy. Diagnosis of transitional cell carcinoma was made by surgery or endoscopic biopsy in 16 patients and squamous cell carcinoma in one. In nine patients with radiographs showing ureteral pseudodiverticula and a urinary tract filling defect (usually in the bladder), 78% of the cases were proved malignant. In six patients with ureteral pseudodiverticula and a stricture in the ureter or renal collecting system, 67% of the cases were proved malignant. Of the patients with tumor, 53% had a single ureteral pseudodiverticulum. In two cases, the pseudodiverticula antedated the diagnosis of malignancy by 2 and 4 years, respectively. Our experience suggests that the association between ureteral pseudodiverticula and uroepithelial malignancy may be more common than previously assumed, approaching 50%. Even a single ureteral pseudodiverticulum should be regarded as a serious marker for potential malignancy, antedating cancer by 2-10 years, and such patients should be closely followed up. The coexistence of ureteral pseudodiverticula and a stricture or filling defect in the urinary tract is highly suggestive that a tumor is present. 
Omenn's syndrome and related combined immunodeficiency syndromes: diagnostic considerations in infants with persistent erythroderma and failure to thrive. A 4-month-old male infant had a 2-month history of an exfoliative erythroderma and alopecia. Recurrent mucosal infections, diffuse lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, lymphocytosis and eosinophilia, anemia, and failure to thrive later developed. Investigation revealed a combined immunodeficiency with T cells of an unusual phenotype in his peripheral blood, skin, and lymph nodes. Our patient's clinical manifestations most closely resemble Omenn's syndrome, a rare form of autosomal recessive combined immunodeficiency. 
Benefits of implantable defibrillators are overestimated by sudden death rates and better represented by the total arrhythmic death rate Benefits of the implantable defibrillator on survival were studied in 56 consecutive patients (concomitant coronary bypass or arrythmia surgery in 15) during an 8 year period between 1982 and 1990. During a follow-up period of 29 +/- 25 months, six patients had a sudden death and eight patients had a nonsudden cardiac death. Nonsudden cardiac deaths included three surgical deaths (death within 30 days after the surgery; two in patients without and one in a patient with concomitant cardiac surgery), one arrhythmia-related nonsudden death (death within 24 h after an arrhythmic event despite initial termination of the arrhythmia by the implantable defibrillators) and four nonarrhythmic cardiac deaths. The actuarial survival rate free of events at 1, 2 and 3 years was 96%, 96% and 92%, respectively, for sudden death, 91%, 91% and 87% for sudden death and surgical mortality and 89%, 89% and 85% for total arrhythmic death (sudden death, surgical mortality and arrhythmia-related nonsudden death). Thus, in patients treated with an implantable defibrillator, 1) the rate of sudden death is low (8% at 3 years); 2) 50% of nonsudden cardiac deaths are causally related to arrhythmia (surgical mortality or arrhythmia-related nonsudden death); 3) the total arrhythmic death rate is substantially higher than the sudden death rate; and 4) benefits of an implantable defibrillator are overestimated by reported sudden death and nonsudden cardiac death rates. The benefits may be better represented by the total arrhythmic death and nonarrhythmic cardiac death rates. 
Experience with laser-assisted balloon angioplasty and a rotary angioplasty instrument: lessons learned. Favorable early results with mechanical angioplasty devices and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty have resulted in aggressive marketing and a rapid increase in the use of these devices for the treatment of femoropopliteal occlusive disease. Recent reports, however, have questioned the durability of these less invasive procedures. Since 1986 we have been involved in the clinical investigation of the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. One hundred two balloon angioplasty procedures assisted by the Nd:YAG laser (n = 56) and the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument (n = 46) were performed for the treatment of femoropopliteal occlusive lesions. Both Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty groups were similar with regard to age, operative indication, preoperative ankle-brachial index, lesion length, and distal runoff. Mean follow-up was 19 months in the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument group and 15 months in the laser-assisted balloon angioplasty group. Technically successful recanalization was achieved in 67% of Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures and 82% of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures. Early hemodynamic and clinical improvement was obtained in 59% of Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures and 57% of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures. Two-year clinical success by life-table analysis was 37% in the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument group and 19% in the laser-assisted balloon angioplasty group. The level of subsequent surgical revascularization was not altered in any patient by Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty or laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. 
Methodologic issues in maintenance therapy clinical trials. In the early 1980s, the National Institute of Mental Health supported a multicenter, randomized, controlled, clinical trial on unipolar and bipolar disorder to evaluate the comparative efficacies of lithium carbonate, imipramine hydrochloride, a lithium-imipramine combination, and placebo in preventing the recurrence of affective disorders. The objective of this report is to present a reanalysis of the relative efficacies of these treatments in patients with unipolar disorder to focus attention on general issues related to the design and conduct of maintenance therapy trials. We show that the earlier conclusions of that study that imipramine and the combination therapy are more effective than lithium and placebo in preventing the recurrence of depression in unipolar patients can be accounted for by alternative explanations that are a consequence of the design of the study. Our findings have important implications for the design, conduct, and interpretation of results of maintenance therapy clinical trials in general. 
Effects of immunosuppressive therapy in biopsy-proved myocarditis and borderline myocarditis on left ventricular function. Twenty patients with decreased left ventricular (LV) function and endomyocardial biopsy-proved myocarditis (9 patients) or borderline myocarditis (11 patients) were studied to determine whether these 2 histologic subsets of patients with inflammatory heart disease differed in their response to a 6- to 8-week course of immunosuppressive therapy. All patients received a regimen of prednisone, 1.0 mg/kg/day, and azathioprine, 1.5 mg/kg/day, followed by repeat endomyocardial biopsy and reevaluation of LV function. LV function improved significantly in the group with borderline myocarditis, as assessed by LV stroke work--end-diastolic volume ratio (0.26 +/- 0.17 to 0.54 +/- 0.31 kg.m.ml-1, p less than 0.02), heart rate corrected velocity of circumferential shortening (0.49 +/- 0.30 to 0.80 +/- 0.29 circ.s-1, p less than 0.05), and LV ejection fraction (0.30 +/- 0.15 to 0.47 +/- 0.13, p less than 0.05). LV end-diastolic and end-systolic volume indexes also decreased significantly from 129 +/- 40 to 94 +/- 38 (p less than 0.05) and 90 +/- 37 to 49 +/- 26 ml (p less than 0.02), respectively. No significant change in these indexes of LV function or volume occurred in the myocarditis group. Whereas salutory improvements in cardiac output and filling pressures were found in both groups, objective improvement in LV function assessed by complementary indexes of contractility was greatest in the borderline myocarditis group. It is concluded that short-term immunosuppressive therapy improves LV contractile function and appears to be associated with regression of ventricular dilatation in patients with borderline myocarditis to a greater extent than patients with myocarditis. 
Monitoring of upper oesophageal sphincter pressure in children. In children technical limitations of upper oesophageal sphincter manometry have restricted investigation to the pull through technique under sedation. In this study we have used an adapted sleeve manometric technique for upper oesophageal sphincter monitoring in unsedated children and determined the influence of the state of arousal on upper oesophageal sphincter pressure. Twenty six children aged 3 to 42 months (median 17.5 months), who were referred for evaluation of oesophageal motor function, were studied with dual sleeve manometric assemblies which monitored upper and lower oesophageal sphincter pressures simultaneously. Pharyngeal, oesophageal body, and gastric pressures were also monitored with seven perfused side holes. Recordings were made for four hours after a meal and were technically successful in 24 children. The child's state of arousal was scored every 12th minute as follows: (A) resting, eyes closed, (B) resting, eyes open, (C) moving but comfortable, (D) restless and uncomfortable, (E) crying. In 67% of the 12 minute samples the children showed good adaptation to the procedure (arousal states A to C). There was a highly significant difference in upper oesophageal sphincter pressure between each of the arousal states (p less than 0.0001), being lowest in category A at (mean (SD) 18.1 (10.3) mmHg and highest in category D 55.7 (13.2) mm Hg. Abrupt changes in the state of arousal were associated with equally abrupt changes in upper oesophageal sphincter pressure. The state of arousal of unsedated children has an important influence on upper oesophageal sphincter pressure. It is essential that this factor is controlled for in any studies of upper oesophageal sphincter tone in children. The sleeve technique is capable of monitoring upper oesophageal sphincter motility for prolonged periods in unsedated children. 
Long-term function in University of Cape Town prostheses in the tricuspid position. A 55-year-old woman undergoing triple-valve replacement was found at operation to have a well preserved and functioning University of Cape Town prosthesis that had been inserted 18 years earlier for tricuspid stenosis. Case reporting, valve reappraisal, and factual updating on another case, the world's first documented tricuspid valve replacement for Ebstein's anomaly, are presented. These two remarkable in vivo successes speak well for this historic collar stud valve. 
A simple biological index for detection of alcoholic liver disease in drinkers. To make liver biopsy unnecessary in certain cases, PGA (P, prothrombin time; G, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase; A, apoliprotein AI), a simple biological index combining a specific test for severe liver disease (prothrombin time), a sensitive test of alcoholic liver disease (serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase), and a test for liver fibrosis (serum apolipoprotein AI), was evaluated in a training sample of 333 drinkers and validated in 291 other drinkers. All patients underwent an intercostal liver biopsy, and the specimen was independently read by two pathologists. The PGA index varied from 0 to 12. When PGA was less than or equal to 2, the probability of cirrhosis was 0% and the probability of normal liver or minimal changes 83%. Conversely, when PGA was greater than or equal to 9, the probability of normal liver or minimal changes was 0% and the probability of cirrhosis 86%. These values did not vary between training and validation periods, between asymptomatic vs. symptomatic subjects or between PGA at admission vs. PGA 1 week later. This index could be useful for general practitioners in identifying subjects at high risk for severe alcoholic liver disease. 
Acute fulminant hepatic failure. Fulminant hepatic failure is the rapid onset of life-threatening hepatic decompensation in patients who have no previous history of liver disease. This condition has a multifactorial etiology, including viral hepatitis and drug toxicity. At this time there is no specific therapy for FHF. However, early diagnosis and treatment of the complications--in particular, cerebral edema--may prolong survival and prevent irreversible neurologic complications. Once the diagnosis has been made, patients with FHF should promptly be transferred to a specialized liver care unit where liver transplantation is available. Liver transplantation is now the treatment of choice for patients with clinical characteristics suggesting a poor chance of survival. 
Age-related normal values of signal-averaged electrocardiographic variables after acute myocardial infarction. The study examined standard time domain variables of a signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG) in 328 survivors of acute myocardial infarction. The correlation of these variables with age and the influence of age on the prediction of postinfarction arrhythmic complication (sudden death [n = 12] or sustained ventricular tachycardia, or both [n = 14]) from the SAECG were investigated. Statistically highly significant correlations (p less than or equal to 0.00002) between age and SAECG variables were found. Compared with patients aged less than 60 years, the SAECG-based stratification of arrhythmic complications after myocardial infarction in patients greater than 60 years had lower sensitivity for the same values of specificity and lower specificity for the same values of sensitivity. 
Gallium-SPECT in the detection of prosthetic valve endocarditis and aortic ring abscess. A 52-yr-old man who had a bioprosthetic aortic valve developed Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. Despite antibiotic therapy he had persistent pyrexia and developed new conduction system disturbances. Echocardiography did not demonstrate vegetations on the valve or an abscess, but gallium scintigraphy using SPECT clearly identified a focus of intense activity in the region of the aortic valve. The presence of valvular vegetations and a septal abscess was confirmed at autopsy. Gallium scintigraphy, using SPECT, provided a useful noninvasive method for the demonstration of endocarditis and the associated valve ring abscess. 
Pain in sickle cell disease. Rates and risk factors. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Acute episodes of pain are the principal symptom of sickle cell disease, but little is known about the epidemiologic features of these episodes or risk factors for them, nor is it known whether patients with high rates of such episodes die prematurely. We prospectively studied the natural history of sickle cell disease in 3578 patients ranging from newborns to persons up to 66 years old who were followed at clinical centers across the United States. RESULTS. There were 12,290 episodes of pain in 18,356 patient-years. The average rate was 0.8 episode per patient-year in sickle cell anemia, 1.0 episode per patient-year in sickle beta 0-thalassemia, and 0.4 episode per patient-year in hemoglobin SC disease and sickle beta(+)-thalassemia. The rate varied widely within each of these four groups--e.g., 39 percent of patients with sickle cell anemia had no episodes of pain, and 1 percent had more than six episodes per year. The 5.2 percent of patients with 3 to 10 episodes per year had 32.9 percent of all episodes. Among patients with sickle cell anemia who were more than 20 years old, those with high rates of pain episodes tended to die earlier than those with low rates. High rates were associated with a high hematocrit and low fetal hemoglobin levels. alpha-Thalassemia had no effect on pain apart from its association with an increased hematocrit. CONCLUSIONS. The "pain rate" (episodes per year) is a measure of clinical severity and correlates with early death in patients with sickle cell anemia over the age of 20. Even when the fetal hemoglobin level is low, one can predict that small increments in the level may have an ameliorating effect on the pain rate and may ultimately improve survival. This outcome is particularly encouraging to investigators studying hydroxyurea and other treatments designed to increase the fetal hemoglobin level. 
Clinical findings associated with pulmonary embolism in a rehabilitation setting. In a rehabilitation setting, pulmonary embolism is a relatively frequent and life-threatening complication. Deciding when a patient may be experiencing this condition is difficult, however, because of frequent deficits in patient communication skills (eg, aphasia and cognitive deficits) and the multisystem illnesses affecting many rehabilitation patients. We reviewed the charts of 30 rehabilitation patients transferred emergently during the years 1986 to 1988 with a diagnosis of pulmonary embolism, which was subsequently documented by ventilation-perfusion scanning. The average age of the 30 patients was 65; 63% were women and 20 (67%) had an admitting diagnosis of stroke. The most common new-onset clinical findings in the 24 hours before discharge were unusual facial skin color changes (pale, flushed, or cyanotic) (57%), chest or upper back pain (47%), tachycardia (heart rate more than 100 bpm) (40%), hypoxemia (arterial oxygen saturation less than or equal to 90%) (40%), and fever less than 101F (37%). In 63% of the patients, either anxiety, restlessness, diaphoresis, or dyspnea was also noted in the 24 hours before discharge. The data suggest that careful physician and nursing scrutiny may identify clinical signs characteristic of pulmonary embolism, and that the de novo appearance of these constellations of findings may help to select candidates for ventilation-perfusion scanning. 
Peritonitis after cecal perforation. An experimental model to study the therapeutic role of antibiotics associated with allopurinol and catalase. This work uses cecal perforation on the rat as a model of intra-abdominal sepsis. Under these conditions, various antibiotics were tested alone or in association with free radical scavengers, such as allopurinol and catalase. It can be concluded that the scavengers were not effective alone, but when combined with antibiotics they rendered good results in the majority of the groups when given postsepsis. Further studies are needed to determine the real role of agents like the free radical scavengers in infectious situations such as the one discussed here. 
Transient corneal opacification induced by cold in Raynaud's disease. A 48-year-old man presented with longstanding complaints of transient blurring of vision on exposure to cold temperatures. A review of family history was noteworthy in that two of the patient's four sons and the patient's brother had similar complaints. All affected individuals had Raynaud's disease. Results of ophthalmic evaluation showed transient corneal opacities. Slit-lamp video photography under cold stress demonstrated conjunctival vascular changes consistent with Raynaud's phenomenon. An extensive work-up for systemic disease was otherwise negative. To the best of the authors' knowledge, anterior segment changes have not been described previously in idiopathic Raynaud's disease. 
Hypopharyngeal lipoma as a cause for sudden asphyxial death. Lipomas of the hypopharynx are uncommon tumors that are rarely life threatening. When positioned in the hypopharynx, asphyxia may be the result of the tumor size or sudden displacement into the oropharynx. We present a case of a large hypopharyngeal lipoma, review the literature, and discuss mechanisms by which these lesions may cause sudden asphyxial death. 
Systematic underreporting of cutaneous malignant melanoma in Massachusetts. Possible implications for national incidence figures. An independent tabulation of incidence of cutaneous malignant melanoma in Massachusetts indicates that 12% and perhaps as many as 19% of new cases of cutaneous malignant melanoma in Massachusetts are not recorded in the Massachusetts Cancer Registry, significantly more than the expected 5% (p = 0.0001). The increasing number of nonhospital medical settings in which melanomas can be diagnosed and/or treated appears to account for this discrepancy. We suspect that these findings in Massachusetts also apply to cancer reporting systems in other regions of the United States. We suggest that the true incidence of cutaneous malignant melanoma in Massachusetts, and perhaps in the United States, may be significantly higher than reported. 
Local anesthesia blocks the antiemetic action of P6 acupuncture. The incidence of postoperative illness was monitored for 6 hours in 74 women premedicated with nalbuphine, 10 mg, and undergoing short gynecologic operations of similar duration under methohexitalnitrous oxide-oxygen anesthesia. Each patient received P6 acupuncture for 5 minutes at the time of administration of premedication. In random order the site of the acupuncture had been previously infiltrated with normal saline solution in half of the patients and 1% lidocaine in the remaining patients. Postoperative emetic sequelae occurred significantly more often in those who received lidocaine compared with the group that received saline solution. This demonstrates the ability of a local anesthetic administered at the point of stimulation to block the antiemetic action of P6 acupuncture in a manner similar to that shown by others for analgesia. 
The gastropulmonary route of infection--fact or fiction? Published studies relating to whether medicinal stress-bleeding prophylaxis leading to an increase of gastric pH favors the development of bronchopulmonary infections are reviewed. Results from studies in healthy humans, patients with ulcer disease, and patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) clearly show that the risk of gastric bacterial colonization significantly increases relative to increasing gastric pH. Moreover, a drug-induced increase of gastric pH leads directly to gastric bacterial colonization also in patients in the ICU, above all with bacteria typical of the gastrointestinal tract. Comparing the different bacterial spectra of the oropharynx, stomach, and upper small intestine, it becomes clear that the stomach is a reservoir of bacteria independent of the oropharynx and also subject to retrograde colonization due to the duodenogastric reflux. Both by means of microbiological and in particular direct detection procedures, it can be demonstrated that in at least 30-40% of intubated patients a gastropulmonary route of colonization occurs. In patient groups without a medication-induced increase of gastric pH the number of bacteria detected in the tracheal secretion is about 33% less than in the case of conventional stress-bleeding prophylaxis. These findings make it understandable that a highly significant increase in the pneumonia rate is seen in patients receiving pH-increasing stress-bleeding prophylaxis versus control groups without therapy essentially influencing gastric pH. A risk score was developed that allows an easy description of those patients who are at an increased risk of pulmonary infections due to the gastropulmonary route of colonization. 
Improved mammographic accuracy. Use of ancillary imaging studies to evaluate suspicious screening mammograms can improve their positive predictive value for detecting malignant lesions. In 1989 8181 screening mammograms were performed at the breast evaluation center at Memorial Hospital Medical Center in Long Beach. A total of 670 patients were called back for magnification views or ultrasonographic evaluation, and 92 of these patients underwent surgical biopsy. There were 42 cancers diagnosed, yielding an accuracy rate of 46%. 
Complications of diverticular disease and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: a prospective study. Previous retrospective studies have suggested an association between consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the complications of diverticular disease. Ninety-two patients were entered into a prospective study of the complications of diverticular disease over a 3 year period; 31 were taking NSAIDs, compared with only four age- and sex-matched controls from a representative general practice (P less than 0.001). A second control group comprised 306 patients with cancer of the colon in whom NSAID consumption was again significantly lower than in patients with diverticular disease (22 of 306 versus 31 of 92, P less than 0.001). Of the 31 patients taking NSAIDs, 19 presented with a perforation or peritonitis. By contrast, only eight of the 61 patients not taking NSAIDs had such complications (P less than 0.001). Eleven patients presented with bleeding of whom five were taking NSAIDs and six were not. Patients admitted with complications of diverticular disease have a high incidence of NSAID intake, and it appears that NSAID consumption is associated with a more severe form of the disease. 
Heparin, deep venous thrombosis, and trauma patients. One hundred consecutive patients with multiple trauma, who were admitted to a level I trauma center with an injury severity score of 10 or greater, were studied prospectively. A duplex scan was used to evaluate each patient initially and at set intervals during the hospitalization for the presence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The prophylactic regimen for DVT in this study was 5,000 U of subcutaneous heparin every 12 hours. This was used in 50 patients at the discretion of the attending physician, while the remaining 50 patients received no DVT prophylaxis. Fourteen of 50 patients (28%) who were receiving heparin developed DVT, while only 1 patient (2%) of the 50 who did not receive heparin developed DVT. The use of heparin did not provide any significant protection in the susceptible trauma patient. It is believed that those patients with minimal lower extremity injuries, lower injury severity scores, and a shorter period of immobilization do not require any form of DVT prophylaxis. However, those patients at increased risk for DVT are better served with either increased doses of heparin or alternative forms of DVT prophylaxis. 
Prospective randomized evaluation of ciprofloxacin versus piperacillin plus amikacin for empiric antibiotic therapy of febrile granulocytopenic cancer patients with lymphomas and solid tumors. The European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer International Antimicrobial Therapy Cooperative Group. Empiric therapy for febrile granulocytopenic patients is mandatory, but whether monotherapy is a safe alternative and whether fluoroquinolones are useful agents for this indication are still controversial issues. The use of monotherapy with intravenous ciprofloxacin (200 to 300 mg every 12 h) was evaluated against combined therapy with piperacillin plus amikacin in febrile granulocytopenic patients with solid tumor or lymphoma. The study was discontinued prematurely because patients treated with ciprofloxacin had a significantly lower overall success rate than patients treated with piperacillin plus amikacin (31 of 48 patients [65%] versus 48 of 53 patients [91%], P = 0.002). Patients with gram-positive coccal bacteremia had a particularly poor outcome: therapy failed for six of eight patients (75%) treated with ciprofloxacin, while therapy failed for none of four patients treated with piperacillin plus amikacin. Death from primary infection during initially randomized protocol therapy occurred in 7 of 48 patients (14.5%) treated with ciprofloxacin and in 3 of 53 (6%) treated with piperacillin plus amikacin. This study does not support the use of this dose of intravenous ciprofloxacin as empiric monotherapy for fever in granulocytopenic patients. 
Late results of two hundred seventeen femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments. A 10-year-experience of 217 femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments in 207 patients is reported. Thirty-three femoropopliteal bypasses (15%) were performed with reversed saphenous vein and 184 (85%) with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts. Operative indications were gangrene in 121 (56%), nonhealing ulceration in 40 (18%), ischemic rest pain in 51 (24%), and claudication in 5 (2%) cases. The 5-year primary graft patency rate of these bypasses was 59% (reversed saphenous vein, 74%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 55%; p less than 0.05), the secondary 5-year graft patency rate was 61% (reversed saphenous vein, 79%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 56%; p less than 0.05), and the 5-year limb salvage rate was 78% (reversed saphenous vein, 78%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 78%). The 30-day operative mortality rate was 10%, and the 5-year patient survival rate was 38%. Eleven patients (5%) required lower extremity amputation because of progressive gangrene or extensive infection despite a patent bypass to an isolated popliteal artery segment. We conclude that femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments (1) have acceptable 5-year graft patency and limb salvage rates; (2) should be performed with reversed saphenous vein grafts when possible; (3) may be performed with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts if necessary, with a resulting limb salvage rate equal to that of reversed saphenous vein grafts; and (4) require sequential extension to an infrapopliteal artery in up to 20% of patients. In addition, the presence of an isolated popliteal artery segment is associated with a high operative mortality rate and limited life expectancy because of coronary artery disease. 
Pathogenetic mechanism of stroke in non-valvular atrial fibrillation: follow-up of stroke patients with and without atrial fibrillation. Stroke patients with brain infarction and non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF, n = 88) or sinus rhythm (SR, n = 188), treated at a population-based stroke unit, were studied for 5 years. Within 1 month, 13% of NVAF and 2% of SR patients (P less than 0.01) had either a stroke recurrence or systemic embolism. After 5 years, the corresponding figures were 26 and 25%, respectively. The 1-month and 5-year mortality values were 35 and 78% in the NVAF group vs. 7 and 52% in the SR group (P less than 0.01). Age, ischaemic heart disease and function group on arrival at the hospital were independent risk factors for death. The main cause of death was ischaemic heart disease in the NVAF group, and complications to the initial stroke or a stroke recurrence in the SR group. Thus a higher risk of death, stroke recurrence and peripheral embolism was evident only during the first month after stroke. 
Applications and transfer of technology to the nations of the South. Biotechnology and the control of childhood enteric infections. The optimal use of biotechnology to address the health care needs of developing countries entails the formation of interdisciplinary working groups linking basic biomedical scientists with public health workers, epidemiologists, physicians, and social scientists. Their mission should be congruent with and guided by the public health goals and primary care program of the country or region. Moreover, their research and development activities should lead to products that address a specific need and which are evaluable, cost-effective, and readily transferred to the public health sector. With respect to the enteric infections of childhood, the essential components of an integrated control effort are a field site where infections of this kind are common and readily studied; a local public health laboratory where the performance of new products can be tested and where technology transfer can occur; a basic science laboratory where molecular pathogenicity studies lead to new diagnostic tests, vaccines, and drugs; and a production laboratory where these products can be refined and prepared in sufficient amounts for field testing. This strategy is now being evaluated for the control of infantile diarrhea through the combined use of epidemiologic investigations, DNA probe and amplification techniques, and molecular fingerprinting. Together, these methods are yielding new information about microbial reservoirs and transmission systems; in turn, this information should lead to highly focused public health interventions. 
Monitoring, reentry, and relapse prevention for chemically dependent health care professionals. Monitoring and reentry programs for chemically dependent health care professionals are increasingly being recognized as important components of recovery efforts targeted at this population. Such monitoring and preventive programs should incorporate certain eligibility requirements, patient-monitoring program contracts, recovery maintenance activities and adjuncts, work-site assessments and reentry recommendations, random body fluid analysis, relapse management, and clear explanations of financial responsibility. Monitoring and reentry programs need to be fully integrated within the spectrum of resources available to health care professionals. 
Limb salvage for osteosarcoma in the 1980s. The incidence of local recurrences following limb salvage performed by experienced surgeons with wide surgical margins and with the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy is sufficiently low (5%-10%) so as not to have a biologically statistically significant impact on the long-term survival rate. Following limb salvage, the incidence of morbidity increases with a few patients occasionally requiring prolonged or repeated hospitalizations and further surgical procedures, even amputation. The durability of the reconstructions is variable, and many of the mobile knee reconstructions may need to be revised if the patients become long-term survivors. The function of salvaged limbs is better than that after the alternative amputation, but none of the reconstructions will give normal function. Finally, no matter which type of surgery on the lower extremity is selected, patients will have a good early psychosocial adjustment if no premorbid psychosocial disorder is present. 
The effect of sterile water blocks on low back labor pain. To evaluate the analgesic effect of intradermal sterile water blocks, 272 women in labor complaining of severe low back pain were randomly assigned to treatment with either sterile water or saline solution blocks. Pain intensity was assessed on a visual analog scale, before the blocks were given and again 1 and 2 hours later. The groups were equal with regard to age, parity, fetal size, progression of labor, and initial pain scoring. Pain scoring 1 and 2 hours after the blocks were given showed a significantly higher degree of analgesia in the sterile water group. No adverse effects were noted, and patient acceptability was high. 
Hereditary sacral agenesis with presacral mass and anorectal stenosis: the Currarino triad. A family with autosomal dominant inheritance of sacral agenesis is described. Ten members were affected; four had associated presacral teratomas and anterior sacral meningoceles, giving rise to serious complications in three, including bacterial meningitis, local recurrence of teratoma and perianal sepsis. Three of those with presacral masses presented initially with anorectal anomalies. Other associated abnormalities included tethering of the cord, hydrocephalus, duplex ureter, hydronephrosis, vesicoureteric reflux, neurogenic bladder, bicornuate uterus, rectovaginal fistula and hereditary spherocytosis. Early diagnosis and surgical excision of a presacral mass is advised to prevent future morbidity and mortality. 
Adenocarcinoma of the prostate involving 2 cell types (prostate specific antigen producing and carcinoembryonic antigen producing) with selective metastatic spread. Of 3 patients with clinically localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate 2 were treated by radical prostatectomy and 1 was treated with radiation therapy. Serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) values were elevated before therapy. After treatment the PSA levels were decreased to zero. All 3 patients later had evidence of metastatic tumor spread to the liver with elevation of serum carcinoembryonic antigen but not PSA. Immunohistochemical staining of the 2 primary tumors from the prostatectomy specimens identified 2 cell clones, one immunoreactive to PSA and prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) and nonimmunoreactive to carcinoembryonic antigen, and the other immunoreactive to carcinoembryonic antigen but not PSA or PAP. Biopsy of a hepatic metastasis in 2 patients confirmed anaplastic carcinoma of the carcinoembryonic antigen-producing cell type. Immunohistochemical staining of a lymph node metastasis identified the PSA-producing cell type only. Such results suggest selective metastatic spread of each cell type to its own organ tropic site. Occasional carcinoembryonic antigen-producing prostate cancers may metastasize to the liver. Serum carcinoembryonic antigen measurements occasionally may be useful in the management of certain prostate adenocarcinoma patients. 
Reduced postoperative hospitalization after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. An initial experience of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 50 consecutive patients was reviewed and the results compared with those of a group of 25 patients who underwent laparotomy cholecystectomy during the 3 months before the introduction of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was successfully performed in 44 of 50 consecutive patients in whom it was attempted. When compared with laparotomy, laparoscopy cholecystectomy was associated with longer mean (s.d.) anaesthesia, 155 (61) min versus 102 (31) min (P less than 0.001), shorter mean postoperative hospital stay, 3.5 (1.5) versus 8.8 (3.2) days (P less than 0.001), and reduced mean cost, pounds 895 (376) versus pounds 2210 (822) (P less than 0.001). Perioperative morbidity was also reduced following laparoscopy cholecystectomy (9 per cent versus 16 per cent) but not significantly so. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe, effective procedure which completely removes the gallbladder. It significantly reduces hospital stay, is cosmetically satisfactory and has financial benefits. We suggest that this technique be considered for all patients having cholecystectomy. 
Fulminant hepatic failure due to acute hepatitis B and delta co-infection: probable bloodborne transmission associated with a spring-loaded fingerstick device. Fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) due to acute hepatitis B and delta co-infection occurred in a 74-yr-old female, who eventually died. There was no clear-cut epidemiology other than probable bloodborne transmission from a contaminated spring-loaded fingerstick device used for glucose determination, in an outpatient facility. This unusual mode of transmission reiterates the importance of using sterile cleansing and disposal procedures anytime there is a possibility of contamination with blood. 
Collinear nutrients and the risk of colon cancer. The relationship between colon cancer risk and the relative contributions of fat and caloric intake are assessed. A lack of consensus exists regarding the role of each of these dietary factors in the development of colon cancer. This lack of agreement originates from the high correlations between the nutrients, as well as the manner in which researchers treat these dietary variables in their analyses. Four proposed methods are evaluated which attempt to address the collinearity problem in nutritional epidemiology: (1) exclude one or more collinear variables, (2) use the proportion of calories consumed attributable to each dietary component, (3) use a regression-adjustment approach to purge the collinearity correlated nutrients, and (4) ridge regression. Diagnostic tests are reported which assess the degree of collinearity on data collected for a case-control study of colon cancer conducted in Utah between 1979 and 1983. Using logistic regression analyses, we apply each of these methods to case-control data. We find that the risks associated with fat and caloric consumption are extremely sensitive to a priori analytic decisions made by epidemiologist about the underlying collinearity problem. 
Cerebral blood flow and carbon dioxide reactivity in children with bacterial meningitis. We examined total and regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) by stable xenon computed tomography in 20 seriously ill children with acute bacterial meningitis to determine whether CBF was reduced and to examine the changes in CBF during hyperventilation. In 13 children, total CBF was normal (62 +/- 20 ml/min/100 gm) but marked local variability of flow was seen. In five other children, total CBF was significantly reduced (26 +/- 10 ml/min/100 gm; p less than 0.05), with flow reduced more in white matter (8 +/- 5 ml/min/100 gm) than in gray matter (30 +/- 15 ml/min/100 gm). Autoregulation of CBF appeared to be present in these 18 children within a range of mean arterial blood pressure from 56 to 102 mm Hg. In the remaining two infants, brain dead within the first 24 hours, total flow was uniformly absent, averaging 3 +/- 3 ml/min/100 gm. In seven children, CBF was determined at two carbon dioxide tension (PCO2) levels: 40 (+/- 3) mm Hg and 29 (+/- 3) mm Hg. In six children, total CBF decreased 33%, from 52 (+/- 25) to 35 (+/- 15) ml/min/100 gm; the mean percentage of change in CBF per millimeter of mercury of PCO2 was 3.0%. Regional variability of perfusion to changes in PCO2 was marked in all six children. The percentage of change in CBF per millimeter of mercury of PCO2 was similar in frontal gray matter (3.1%) but higher in white matter (4.5%). In the seventh patient a paradoxical response was observed; total and regional CBF increased 25% after hyperventilation. Our findings demonstrate that (1) CBF in children with bacterial meningitis may be substantially decreased globally, with even more variability noted regionally, (2) autoregulation of CBF is preserved, (3) CBF/CO2 responsitivity varies among patients and in different regions of the brain in the same patient, and (4) hyperventilation can reduce CBF below ischemic thresholds. 
A direct effect of hyperinsulinemia on serum sex hormone-binding globulin levels in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome. To determine whether hyperinsulinemia can directly reduce serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome, six obese women with this disorder were studied. Before study, ovarian steroid production was suppressed in each woman by the administration of 7.5 mg of a long-acting GnRH agonist, leuprolide depot, im, on days -56, -28, and 0. This resulted in substantial reductions in serum concentrations of testosterone (from 1.72 +/- 0.29 nmol/L on day -56 to 0.32 +/- 0.09 nmol/L on day 0), non-SHBG-bound testosterone (from 104 +/- 16 pmol/L on day -56 to 19 +/- 5 pmol/L on day 0), androstenedione (from 7.25 +/- 1.65 nmol/L on day -56 to 2.78 +/- 0.94 nmol/L on day 0), estrone (from 371 +/- 71 pmol/L on day -56 to 156 +/- 29 pmol/L on day 0), estradiol (from 235 +/- 26 pmol/L on day -56 to 90 +/- 24 pmol/L on day 0), and progesterone (from 0.28 +/- 0.12 nmol/L on day -56 to 0.08 +/- 0.02 nmol/L on day 0). Serum SHBG levels, however, did not change (18.8 +/- 2.8 nmol/L on day -56 vs. 17.8 +/- 2.6 nmol/L on day 0). While continuing leuprolide treatment, the women were administered oral diazoxide (300 mg/day) for 10 days to suppress serum insulin levels. Diazoxide treatment resulted in suppressed insulin release during a 100-g oral glucose tolerance test (insulin area under the curve, 262 +/- 55 nmol/min.L on day 0 vs. 102 +/- 33 nmol/min.L on day 10; P less than 0.05) and deterioration of glucose tolerance. Serum testosterone, androstenedione, estrone, estradiol, and progesterone levels did not change during combined diazoxide and leuprolide treatment. In contrast, serum SHBG levels rose by 32% from 17.8 +/- 2.6 nmol/L on day 0 to 23.5 +/- 2.0 nmol/L on day 10 (P less than 0.003). Due primarily to the rise in serum SHBG levels, serum non-SHBG-bound testosterone levels fell by 43% from 19 +/- 5 pmol/L on day 0 to 11 +/- 4 pmol/L on day 10 (P = 0.05). These observations suggest that hyperinsulinemia directly reduces serum SHBG levels in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome independently of any effect on serum sex steroids. 
The origin of pain in optic neuritis. Determinants of pain in 101 eyes with optic neuritis. In 101 eyes with either anterior or retrobulbar optic neuropathy of ischemic or inflammatory origin, ocular pain occurred significantly more often with retrobulbar optic neuropathy. The association of pain with posterior optic nerve lesions supports Whitnall's hypothesis that the pain of optic nerve inflammation is caused by traction of the origins of the superior and medial recti on the optic nerve sheath at the orbital apex. Eye pain reflected neither severity nor origin of optic neuropathy. 
Transcutaneous oxygen tensions in assessing the treatment of healed venous ulcers Transcutaneous oxygen tension (Ptc,O2) was assessed as an indicator of risk of reulceration in 68 limbs with healed venous ulcers. Ptc,O2 was also used to assess two methods of ulcer prophylaxis. Measurements were made over the gaiter skin, the healed ulcer and the upper arm. The results were expressed as a ratio of the lower limb readings over those taken from the arm. Patients were randomized, after the ulcer had healed, to elastic stockings and stanozolol, or elastic stockings and surgical ligation of incompetent superficial veins. Patients who declined to participate in the study were prescribed elastic stockings only. Those limbs remaining healed at 12 months had Ptc,O2 ratios remeasured. The Ptc,O2 ratios from limbs that reulcerated were not significantly lower than those from limbs remaining healed. The Ptc,O2 ratio was significantly increased in limbs treated by stanozolol and elastic stockings (P less than 0.05) and by surgery and elastic stockings (P less than 0.05). There was no significant increase in Ptc,O2 in limbs treated by elastic stockings alone. In those treated by surgery and elastic stockings, there was a significant improvement in limbs with normal deep veins (P less than 0.01), but not in limbs with post-thrombotic changes on ascending phlebography. Although these two methods of ulcer prophylaxis improve the Ptc,O2 ratio, a high ratio has not been shown to be beneficial in preventing ulcer recurrence. 
Validation of hourly pain intensity profiles with chronic pain patients. This study examines how empirically derived pain intensity profiles relate to psychological adjustment in chronic pain patients. Hourly pain intensity ratings over the course of a day of 189 chronic pain patients were categorized into 6 groups using a hierarchical regression analysis technique. The profiles reflected linear, curvilinear, multilinear or "no profile" effects. Judges' ratings of pain intensity profiles were found to be less reliable than ratings based on empirical analysis. The majority of patients showed linear profiles while 26% of the patients showed no consistent relationship between hourly pain intensity and time of day. Patients who showed no consistent trend in their pain ratings reported having significantly higher ratings of emotional distress. They tended to have conflicts at home and showed more pain behavior than patients who had a distinct pain profile. Support is given for the potential clinical utility of pain rating profiles. 
Extraspinal causes of lumbosacral radiculopathy. Twelve of 12,125 patients who had been referred during a seven-year period to a specialist in spinal disorders were found to have an extraspinal cause of radiculopathy or neuropathy of the lower extremity. The records of these twelve patients were reviewed retrospectively. The average age of the twelve patients was sixty-five years (range, forty-two to seventy-seven years). The cause of the symptoms was an occult malignant tumor in nine patients and a hematoma, an aneurysm of the obturator artery, or a neurilemoma of the sciatic nerve in the others. The average time from the onset of symptoms to the final diagnosis was eight months (range, one month to two years). The most useful test for determination of the correct diagnosis was computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen and pelvis. Computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the spine and bone-scanning of the whole body were of little help in localizing the disease. In four of the twelve patients, an operation was performed on the basis of an incorrect diagnosis. In dealing with elderly patients who have radiculopathy, one should be suspicious that the cause is outside the spine. 
Neurofibromatosis type I--a rare case resulting in conductive hearing loss. Notwithstanding the many similarities, there are important differences between NF1 and NF2. NF1-related neurofibromas, which can number in the hundreds, can occur all over the body. Unique clinical situations, such as the case described here, can occur that test the ingenuity of the physician. Once the presenting problem has been ameliorated, genetic counseling is imperative in this common and at times devastating genetic disease. 
Placental site trophoblastic tumor in a postmenopausal woman. Placental site trophoblastic tumor is a rare neoplasm that arises in the trophoblastic tissue of the placental bed. This case report is unusual because of the patient's advanced age at the time of diagnosis and the favorable response of the disease to chemotherapy. Although the clinical course is benign for most patients with placental site trophoblastic tumor, the malignant variant of the disease is characterized by recurrence, relative insensitivity to radiation and chemotherapy, and death. To the authors' knowledge, the 53-year-old woman reported is the oldest patient with histologically confirmed placental site trophoblastic tumor. Initially, surgery, radiation, and multiagent chemotherapy failed to control vaginal and pulmonary metastatic disease. After administration of four treatment cycles of a "second-line" chemotherapeutic regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide and cisplatin, complete clinical and radiologic remission was achieved. The patient's serum level of human chorionic gonadotropin has remained undetectable, and she has been without measurable evidence of disease for 16 months. 
Eyelid gold weights in the management of facial palsy. We reviewed our experiences with 20 patients with established facial palsy who had a total of 24 gold weights inserted. All patients had corneal symptoms: ulceration, exposure keratitis or discomfort abolished. Functional improvement i.e. reduction of lagophthalamos and restoration of the blink reflex was good in our opinion and that of the patients in all cases. Dissatisfaction with the cosmetic result was expressed by two patients due to the prominence of the weight under the thin eyelid skin. Three patients had to have the weight replaced because it was too light. Two patients had their weights removed because of recurrent eyelid infections. In two patients the weights were removed as they had migrated over the tarsal rim. In one of these patients the weight was replaced immediately in the appropriate position, in the other it was not replaced as dissatisfaction had been expressed due to the bulky appearance of the weight under the eyelid skin. 
Gastrointestinal endoscopy and general surgical practice. Surgical endoscopy versus surgeon endoscopists. Endoscopic studies and treatment are a necessary and vital component of General Surgery practice. Since most of the concepts related to therapeutic endoscopy were conceived and developed in the context of surgical science, it is both appropriate and necessary that surgeons continue their involvement with this modality. Furthermore, within the evolution of surgical science, endoscopic tools will continue to be utilized. 
Esophageal involvement in mixed connective tissue disease. A study of esophageal symptoms and function was performed in 21 patients with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD). Esophageal involvement was found in 18 cases (85%), in 14 (66%) with typical symptoms, in 15 (71%) with manometric abnormalities and in 11 (57%) with both. The manometric pattern was characterized by reduction of amplitude and coordination of peristaltic waves throughout the esophageal body and reduction of lower esophageal sphincter (LES) competency. In comparison, 38 patients with systemic sclerosis showed a similar but more severe pattern, particularly at the level of the distal esophagus and LES. Thus, although similar, the esophageal involvement in MCTD was not exactly the same as that of systemic sclerosis. Furthermore, in MCTD a correlation between manometric abnormalities and cutaneous involvement was lacking, and this suggests that esophageal disorders are not always linked with clinically evident scleroderma-like features of this disease. Since the diagnosis of MCTD is made in the presence of the clinical picture of more than one connective tissue disease, the detection of esophageal involvement by a sensitive technique such as esophageal manometry in a patient with suspected MCTD may be a useful diagnostic aid. 
Usefulness of ST-segment changes in greater than or equal to 2 leads on the emergency room electrocardiogram in either unstable angina pectoris or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction in predicting outcome. To determine the reliability of the admission electrocardiogram in predicting outcome in patients hospitalized for chest pain at rest, 90 patients were randomized into a trial of aspirin versus heparin in unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, and prospectively followed for 3 months. The emergency room admission electrocardiogram was analyzed for ST-segment deviation greater than or equal to 1 mm/lead and T-wave changes. Unfavorable outcomes were recurrent ischemic pain, myocardial infarction and coronary revascularization with angioplasty or surgery. In patients who underwent coronary arteriography, a myocardium in jeopardy score ranging from 0 to 10 was assigned, based on the number of vessels with a diameter stenosis greater than or equal to 70% and the location of the stenoses. Considering all 90 patients, an admission electrocardiogram with ST-segment deviation in greater than or equal to 2 leads had a positive predictive value for adverse clinical events of 79% and a negative predictive value of 64%. In the subset of patients without left ventricular hypertrophy and whose admission electrocardiograms were recorded during chest pain (62 of 90), the positive predictive value of ST deviation in greater than or equal to 2 leads improved to 89% and the negative value to 72%. Of the 62 patients, 53 underwent coronary arteriography. There was a positive linear correlation between the total number of leads with ST-segment deviation and the myocardium in jeopardy score (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001). 
Quantitative relation between increased intrapericardial pressure and Doppler flow velocities during experimental cardiac tamponade. To establish whether a quantitative relation exists between pericardial pressure and respiratory variation in intracardiac blood flow velocities, a spontaneously breathing closed chest canine model of pericardial tamponade was created. In seven dogs, pericardial pressure was sequentially increased in stages from a mean of -4 +/- 1 to 10 +/- 2 mm Hg while aortic and pulmonary Doppler flow velocities, pleural pressure changes (respiratory effort), blood pressure and cardiac output were measured. The variation in the Doppler-detected peak transaortic velocity (AV) during inspiration (IV) increased linearly from -5 +/- 3% at baseline (pericardial pressure -4 mm Hg) to -32 +/- 9% at a pericardial pressure of 10 mm Hg [IVAV = -2 (pericardial pressure)--13.1; r = 0.78, p less than 10(-6)]. The inspiratory variation in the peak transpulmonary velocity increased from 13 +/- 3% at baseline to 71 +/- 19% at a pericardial pressure of 10 mm Hg. The inspiratory variation in the pulmonary Doppler peak velocity (IVPV) was dependent on both pericardial pressure and degree of respiratory effort [IVPV = 3.8 (pericardial pressure) + 2.6 (respiratory effort) + 10.9; r = 0.88, p less than 10(-8)]. Thus, quantitative relations exist between increases in intrapericardial pressure and increases in inspiratory variation of peak aortic and pulmonary flow velocities. Additionally, pulmonary artery flow velocity is influenced more than aortic velocity by intrathoracic pressure. 
Lack of HLA class I antigen expression by cultured melanoma cells FO-1 due to a defect in B2m gene expression. The melanoma cell line FO-1 does not express HLA class I antigens and does not acquire them on the cell surface after incubation with IFN-gamma. Immunochemical studies showed that FO-1 cells synthesize HLA class I heavy chain, but do not synthesize beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2-mu). The latter abnormality is associated with lack of beta 2-mu mRNA which remains undetectable in FO-1 cells incubated with IFN-gamma. The defect was identified as a genetic lesion in the B2m gene, since DNA hybridization analysis detected a deletion of the first exon of the 5'-flanking region, and of a segment of the first intron of the B2m gene. HLA class I antigen expression was reconstituted on melanoma cells FO-1 after transfection with the wild-type mouse B2m gene, thereby confirming the abnormality of the endogenous B2m gene. The defect identified in FO-1 cells is distinct from that underlying the lack of HLA class I antigen expression by lymphoblastoid cells Daudi, but is remarkably similar to that causing lack of H-2 class I antigen expression by mouse lymphoblastoid cells R1 (TL-). These results suggest that genetic recombination in the 5' region of the B2m gene is a recurrent mechanism in B2m gene defects. In addition to contributing to our understanding of molecular abnormalities in HLA class I antigen expression by melanoma cells, FO-1 cells represent a useful model for analyzing the role of HLA class I antigens in the biology of melanoma cells and in their interaction with cells of the immune system. 
Effects of calcium antagonists on glomerular hemodynamics and structure in experimental hypertension. The RK, DS, and UNX SHR rats are related models of progressive renal disease characterized by the presence of severe systemic hypertension and reduction in renal mass. In these models, glomerular injury is related to increased glomerular pressure and to kidney and glomerular hypertrophy. As summarized in Table 1, administration of a calcium antagonist reduces the prevalence of glomerular sclerosis in all three models. Calcium antagonists have many effects that might tend to reduce renal injury. Similar to the ACE inhibitors, they may reduce PGC, although a protective effect has been observed in some models despite persistence of marked glomerular capillary hypertension. Calcium antagonists also appear to inhibit compensatory renal growth. The observation that these drugs lessen injury in experimental hypertension has important implications for the treatment of patients with hypertension and renal disease. However, widespread use of calcium antagonists specifically to prevent kidney damage should await the results of controlled clinical trials. 
Histopathologic validation of angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound. BACKGROUND. To establish a histopathologic basis for angioscopic and ultrasound image interpretation we studied 70 postmortem human arterial segments in vitro. METHODS AND RESULTS. We used 7- to 9-French fiber-optic angioscopes and 20- to 30-MHz intravascular ultrasound imaging catheters. Three observers assigned an angioscopic and ultrasound image classification to each vessel segment. The image and histological classification categories were then compared. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of both methods separately or in combination for normal vessels were each greater than or equal to 95%. The predictive value was better for angioscopy than for ultrasound due to incorrect ultrasound interpretations of normal anatomy in the presence of thrombus. For stable atheroma the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the individual methods were each greater than 90%. However, both angioscopy and ultrasound had classification errors in that disrupted atheroma was identified and classified as stable atheroma. Consequently, the predictive value was 74% for angioscopy and 78% for ultrasound. For disrupted atheroma the sensitivities for angioscopy and ultrasound were only moderate (73% and 81%, respectively), whereas the specificity, accuracy, and predictive value were each high (greater than 90%). For thrombus detection, the specificity, accuracy, and predictive value were high (greater than 93%) for each method. The sensitivity of angioscopy was 100%. However, sensitivity was lower for ultrasound (57%) due to false-negative interpretation of laminar clots in normal vessels and an inability to distinguish disrupted or stable atheroma from intraluminal thrombus. CONCLUSIONS. Contingency analyses showed that each imaging method alone or combined had significant agreement with the results obtained from histology (p less than 0.001). When assessing all cases in which angioscopy and ultrasound were concordant, there was a 92% agreement with the histological classification. 
Systemic effects of collagen-impregnated aortoiliac Dacron vascular prostheses on platelet activation and fibrin formation. To minimize intraoperative blood loss a watertight knitted Dacron aortoiliac prosthesis has been developed by impregnation with bovine collagen. A potential disadvantage is that collagen may be associated with an increase in thrombus formation. We conducted a prospective randomized trial to study the systemic effects of collagen-impregnated prostheses and of aortoiliac operation as such on the coagulation mechanism during the first 10 days after operation. Forty-one patients randomly received either a collagen-impregnated (n = 20) or a nonimpregnated prosthesis (n = 21). Twelve patients who underwent cholecystectomies served as controls. Three markers of the coagulation mechanism were monitored: beta-thromboglobulin, fibrinopeptide A, and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products. We found no significant differences in median beta-thromboglobulin, fibrinopeptide A, and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation product levels between patients in the collagen-impregnated prosthesis group and patients in the nonimpregnated prosthesis group. This indicates that collagen does not stimulate the coagulation cascade any more than conventional Dacron protheses do. In a comparison of patients who underwent aortoiliac reconstruction and patients who underwent cholecystectomies, the results indicated a significant increased platelet activation and fibrin metabolism in aortoiliac reconstruction group compared with the control group. Finally, we observed a significantly higher preoperative fibrin metabolism in patients with vascular disease than in control subjects. This difference is attributable to the high preoperative fibrin/fibrinogen degradation product values in patients with aortic aneurysms. 
Exercise testing and training in patients with peripheral vascular disease and lower extremity amputation. Patients with peripheral vascular disease have a high risk of coronary artery disease. The risk is even greater when the peripheral vascular disease leads to lower extremity amputation. Exercise testing using lower extremity exercise has been the "gold standard" for screening for coronary artery disease, but many patients with peripheral vascular disease and those with amputations have difficulty doing this type of exercise. Arm exercise ergometry has been shown to be a safe and effective alternative for the detection of coronary artery disease in patients who cannot do leg exercise. This test has also been used to determine safe exercise levels and may be able to predict the ultimate level of prosthetic use in amputees. Exercise training with arm ergometry also improves cardiovascular efficiency and upper body strength in poorly conditioned patients. Studies are needed to appreciate fully the role of exercise testing and training in the recovery of these patients after amputation. 
Short-term variation in abnormal antenatal fetal heart rate records. In a retrospective study the relation of reduced fetal heart rate variation to fetal acidemia was analyzed with a computerized system for numeric analysis. Between 1983 and 1987, 78 pregnancies were identified in which at least one record of the fetal heart rate had very low long-term variation. The outcome was analyzed to determine the numeric criteria of fetal heart rate variation that most efficiently detect a fetus that will die (preterminal) or is dying (terminal). Because fetal compromise was found on occasion to be associated with a slow sinusoidal fetal heart rate rhythm that increased measures of long-term variation. It was necessary to define a new index of short-term fetal heart rate variation (the 1/16 minute epoch-epoch variation). This was closely related to long-term variation (r = 0.9) but provided better detection of preterminal records as judged by metabolic acidemia at delivery or intrauterine death. 
Presence of the terminal complement complex (C5b-9) precedes myelin degradation in immune-mediated demyelination of the rat peripheral nervous system. In this study, the terminal complement complex C5b-9 (TCC) was localized by immunocytochemistry at different clinical stages of experimental autoimmune neuritis. Deposits of TCC were found on the surface of Schwann cells and their myelin sheaths, and to some extent in the extracellular space at predilective sites of impending demyelination before onset of clinical signs and for a short period thereafter. Additionally, TCC was deposited on the surface of W3/13 positive leukocytes. No TCC immunoreactivity was seen in the distal stump of transected sciatic nerves 1 to 15 days after axotomy. The early and transient deposition of TCC on Schwann cells and myelin sheaths in experimental autoimmune neuritis before overt demyelination suggests that complement activation plays a pathogenic role in the initiation of immune-mediated myelin damage. The lack of TCC immunoreactivity after nerve transection excludes a nonspecific activation process. The signals involved in local TCC formation in demyelinating peripheral nervous system disorders have yet to be explored. 
The "two week syndrome" associated with injection treatment for chronic pain--fact or fiction? Many patients attending the pain clinic for regular injections of local anaesthetic state that the pain returned "two weeks" ago. This study demonstrates that 85% of these patients have a "return of pain" interval which coincides with the proximity of their next clinic appointment. 
Atrial antitachycardia pacing in children and young adults. Atrial antitachycardia pacing was tested in 23 children and young adults. The majority of these patients had had operative repair of congenital cardiac defects and had both bradycardia and tachycardia. Pacemakers were usually implanted by the transvenous technique using bipolar leads. In each patient it was possible to find a tachycardia termination algorithm that successfully converted the tachycardia. In some patients very complex algorithms were necessary. In each patient it was also possible to find an algorithm that successfully differentiated the abnormal tachycardia from sinus tachycardia. Twelve patients required no antiarrhythmic drugs after pacemaker implantation, while 10 patients required one drug and one patient required two drugs. Eight of 23 patients had symptomatic tachycardias that required reprogramming the pacemaker to a different tachycardia termination sequence. Seven patients required reoperations, five for adapter problems and two for infection or erosion. Cardiac function improved in 15 of the 23 patients. Antitachycardia pacing is a viable option for management of tachycardias in children and young adults. 
Median frequency--a new parameter for predicting defibrillation success rate. STUDY HYPOTHESIS: Current American Heart Association guidelines recommend immediate defibrillation of ventricular fibrillation. When this is unsuccessful, there are no guidelines to help determine the optimum time at which to defibrillate after the administration of an alpha-adrenergic agonist. Previous studies have shown that the median frequency of the ventricular fibrillation ECG signal correlates with myocardial perfusion during CPR. We hypothesized that median frequency could predict the success of defibrillation and thus accurately determine the most appropriate time at which to defibrillate during ventricular fibrillation. STUDY POPULATION: Twenty-two mixed-breed swine weighing more than 15 kg were studied. METHODS: Ventricular fibrillation was induced electrically, and the ventricular fibrillation ECG signal was analyzed using fast Fourier analysis. After ten minutes of ventricular fibrillation, mechanical CPR was begun. After three minutes of CPR, the animals received one of three alpha-adrenergic agonists and CPR was continued. Defibrillation was attempted three and one-half minutes after drug administration. The average median frequency 20 seconds before defibrillation was calculated. Sensitivity and specificity of median frequency with respect to defibrillation success were determined. RESULTS: A median frequency of 9.14 Hz had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 92.31% in predicting the results of defibrillation in this model. CONCLUSION: The median frequency may serve as a valuable parameter to guide defibrillation therapy during ventricular fibrillation. 
Cysts of the neuraxis of endodermal origin. Five colloid cysts of the third ventricle were compared with two spinal enterogenous cysts to examine the hypothesis that these entities have the same origin from primitive endodermal tissue. All the lesions showed cuboidal and columnar epithelium with mucus containing goblet cells and cilia. Immunohistochemistry for cytokeratin, EMA and CEA was positive in all the colloid cyst and enterogenous cyst epithelium. S-100 was focally positive in three of the colloid and one of the enterogenous cysts while vimentin and GFAP were negative in both. The anatomical distribution of both colloid and enterogenous cysts is reviewed. An illustrative case of an identical cyst within the fourth ventricle is presented. This suggests that the similarities between colloid and enterogenous cysts and the presence of identical lesions along the neuroaxis indicate that these structures are derived from primitive foregut endoderm. 
Septicaemia and adrenal haemorrhage in congenital asplenia. Five patients developed overwhelming infection as a result of congenital asplenia, which was previously unsuspected in all cases. Each illness followed a fulminant course resulting in death within 24 hours. They illustrate the respective roles of Haemophilus influenzae infection (n = 4) and adrenal haemorrhage (n = 4) in this condition. We suggest a management protocol for screening infants with abnormalities of the atria or viscera with splenic ultrasound and examination of a blood film for Howell-Jolly bodies. Vaccination and prophylactic antibiotics should be considered for those at risk. Vigorous use of parenteral antibiotics and steroids in suspected infection is recommended. 
Retrospective long-term follow-up analysis in 21 patients with chordomas of various sites treated at a single institution. Twenty-one patients with chordoma were treated at the Radiation Oncology Center, Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, between 1949 and 1986. Thirteen patients had sacrococcygeal tumors, five had clival tumors, two had nasopharyngeal tumors, and one had a lumbar spine tumor. Nine patients were treated with surgery alone, eight patients with subtotal resection and postoperative irradiation, and four patients with radiotherapy alone after biopsy. The 5- and 10-year actuarial survival rates were 74% and 46%, respectively. The 10-year actuarial survival rate was significantly better in patients treated with surgery alone or surgery and irradiation than in those treated with radiotherapy alone (52%, 32%, and 0%, respectively, p = 0.02). Although all patients ultimately suffered a recurrence, those with lumbosacral tumors treated with surgery and irradiation had a longer mean disease-free survival period (6.6 years) than those treated with surgery alone (4.1 years) (p = 0.08). Disease-free survival times of patients with base of the skull tumors was not significantly different between the treatment groups. Irradiation after resection of chordomas appears to increase the time to first relapse in lumbosacral tumors and should be considered after subtotal resection. 
Middle meatus anstrostomy: patency rates and risk factors. Two hundred patients with chronic sinusitis were operated on using functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) techniques. These patients were followed closely over 3 years. Patency of the endoscopic middle meatotomy was recorded using actuarial life-table methods. The overall patency rate of the endoscopic middle meatotomy was 93.55%, and the actuarial patency rate at 36 months was 87.47%. The presence of seasonal allergy with nasal polyps was the most important variable in predicting closure. Middle turbinectomy was the most important variable in predicting patency. Symptoms were evaluated by questionnaire at 1 year. Questionnaire data indicate that 96% of these patients are improved or asymptomatic. 
Striatal function in normal aging: implications for Parkinson's disease. Central to several current theories of the etiology of Parkinson's disease is the premise that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system degenerates with normal aging. Much of the evidence for this assertion has come from postmortem neurochemical studies. We have used L-6-[18F] fluoro-Dopa and positron emission tomography in 26 healthy volunteers (age range, 27-76 years) to examine striatal and frontal cortical tracer uptake. Data have been analyzed by using a graphical approach to calculate an influx constant (Ki) for L-6-[18F]fluoro-Dopa uptake into the caudate, putamen, and medial frontal cortex of each subject. In the population studied, there was no decline in Ki with age for any of these structures. A series of physiological measurements made on the older subjects also showed few significant changes with age. The positron emission tomographic findings demonstrate preservation of nigrostriatal dopaminergic function in normal aging. The pathological process causing Parkinson's disease may operate closer to the time of presentation than has been suggested. 
Total peripheral artery occlusions: conventional versus laser thermal recanalization with a hybrid probe in percutaneous angioplasty--results of a randomized trial Increasing the primary success rate in recanalization of peripheral vascular occlusions is one aim of using laser techniques in the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Although reports of lasers enabling recanalization after failure of guide wires have been numerous, direct comparisons of the success of the two techniques in a randomized trial have been few. The results of a randomized trial showed no statistical difference in recanalization of femoropopliteal occlusions between the conventional guide wire and hybrid laser probe. The number of patients with iliac occlusions was small and comparisons are difficult to make, but the findings suggest that the hybrid laser probe has little to offer. Immediate crossover to the alternative method allowed investigation of the relationship between the two methods in practice. Combining the two methods improved the primary success rate from 82% to 91% for femoropopliteal occlusions randomized to laser thermal recanalization and from 74% to 91% for those randomized to conventional recanalization. 
Normal splenic size in infants and children: sonographic measurements. The purpose of this study was to establish guidelines for normal splenic size at different ages by using a simple and reproducible sonographic method. Two hundred thirty patients, from neonate to 20-year-old, had sonography because of abdominal and/or pelvic problems unrelated to the spleen. Findings on sonograms of the liver and kidneys were normal in all cases. Splenic size was measured by obtaining a coronal view that included the hilum, while the patient was breathing quietly. The greatest longitudinal distance between the dome of the spleen and the tip (splenic length) was measured and correlated with age, height, and weight. The following guidelines are proposed for the upper limit of normal splenic length based on this simple, easy to use, one-measurement technique: splenic length no greater than 6.0 cm at 3 months, 6.5 cm at 6 months, and 7.0 cm at 12 months, 8.0 cm at 2 years, 9.0 at 4 years, 9.5 cm at 6 years, 10.0 cm at 8 years, 11.0 cm at 10 years, 11.5 cm at 12 years, 12.0 cm at 15 years or older for girls, and 13.0 cm at 15 years or older for boys. Twenty-two patients with known abnormalities of the spleen were randomly selected and their splenic lengths compared with the proposed guidelines; in each case, the length of the spleen exceeded the upper limit of normal for that age. Normal values of a single measurement of the greatest longitudinal diameter of the spleen, from the dome to the tip measured at the hilum in the coronal plane, were obtained in patients from newborn to 20 years old. 
Coronal alignment after total knee replacement. Maquet's line passes from the centre of the femoral head to the centre of the body of the talus. The distance of this line from the centre of the knee on a long-leg radiograph provides the most accurate measure of coronal alignment. Malalignment causes abnormal forces which may lead to loosening after knee replacement. We report a series of 115 Denham knee replacements performed between 1976 and 1981 using the earliest design of components, inserted with intramedullary guide rods. Patients were assessed clinically and long-leg standing radiographs were taken before operation, soon after surgery and up to 12 years later. In two-thirds of the knees (68%) Maquet's line passed through the middle third of the prosthesis on postoperative films and the incidence of subsequent loosening was 3%. When Maquet's line was medial or lateral to this, an error of approximately +/- 3 degrees, the incidence of loosening at a median period of eight years was 24%. This difference is highly significant (p = 0.001). Accurate coronal alignment appears to be an important factor in prevention of loosening. Means of improving the accuracy of alignment and of measuring it on long-leg radiographs are discussed. 
Insulin resistance. A multifaceted syndrome responsible for NIDDM, obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Diabetes mellitus is commonly associated with systolic/diastolic hypertension, and a wealth of epidemiological data suggest that this association is independent of age and obesity. Much evidence indicates that the link between diabetes and essential hypertension is hyperinsulinemia. Thus, when hypertensive patients, whether obese or of normal body weight, are compared with age- and weight-matched normotensive control subjects, a heightened plasma insulin response to a glucose challenge is consistently found. A state of cellular resistance to insulin action subtends the observed hyperinsulinism. With the insulin/glucose-clamp technique, in combination with tracer glucose infusion and indirect calorimetry, it has been demonstrated that the insulin resistance of essential hypertension is located in peripheral tissues (muscle), is limited to nonoxidative pathways of glucose disposal (glycogen synthesis), and correlates directly with the severity of hypertension. The reasons for the association of insulin resistance and essential hypertension can be sought in at least four general types of mechanisms: Na+ retention, sympathetic nervous system overactivity, disturbed membrane ion transport, and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells. Physiological maneuvers, such as calorie restriction (in the overweight patient) and regular physical exercise, can improve tissue sensitivity to insulin; evidence indicates that these maneuvers can also lower blood pressure in both normotensive and hypertensive individuals. Insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia are also associated with an atherogenic plasma lipid profile. Elevated plasma insulin concentrations enhance very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesis, leading to hypertriglyceridemia. Progressive elimination of lipid and apolipoproteins from the VLDL particle leads to an increased formation of intermediate-density and low-density lipoproteins, both of which are atherogenic. Last, insulin, independent of its effects on blood pressure and plasma lipids, is known to be atherogenic. The hormone enhances cholesterol transport into arteriolar smooth muscle cells and increases endogenous lipid synthesis by these cells. Insulin also stimulates the proliferation of arteriolar smooth muscle cells, augments collagen synthesis in the vascular wall, increases the formation of and decreases the regression of lipid plaques, and stimulates the production of various growth factors. In summary, insulin resistance appears to be a syndrome that is associated with a clustering of metabolic disorders, including non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, obesity, hypertension, lipid abnormalities, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. 
Intrahepatic recurrence after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma complicating cirrhosis. To determine whether a careful evaluation of tumor extension by preoperative computed tomography scan after intra-arterial injection of ultrafluid lipiodol and by intraoperative ultrasound examination reduced the recurrence rate of hepatocellular carcinoma after resection, a series of 47 cirrhotic patients with a single tumor operated on from 1984 was studied. Alphafetoprotein level was less than 100 ng/mL in 26 patients (55%), size of the tumor was less than 5 cm in 28 patients (59%), and capsule was present in 30 patients (63%). The resection was performed with free margin measuring 1 cm or more. The overall cumulative survival rates at 3 and 5 years were 35% and 17%, respectively. Intrahepatic recurrence was observed in 28 patients (60%), located less than 2 cm from the resection margin in only four patients. The cumulative intrahepatic recurrence rate at 3 years was 81% and was significantly higher in patients with tumor greater than or equal to 5 cm and in patients with preoperative alphafetoprotein level of greater than or equal to 100 ng/mL. In this series the cumulative intrahepatic recurrence rate at 5 years was 100%. This high recurrence rate after resection, even with careful evaluation of tumor extension, indicates that liver transplantation might be envisaged for the treatment of cirrhotic patients with resectable hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Body composition in ballet dancers measured by total body electrical conductivity. The purpose of this study was to describe the body composition of adolescent and young adult ballet dancers using total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC). We studied 112 female and 33 male dancers. The mean ages were 15.0 +/- 2.0 and 18.7 +/- 3.1 yr for females and males, respectively. The mean percent body fat (PBF) values were 20.1 +/- 3.6% for the females and 14.5 +/- 4.2% for the males. Age and pubertal development were not significantly related to PBF in the females. Age and pubertal status were significantly inversely related to PBF in the males. There was no difference in dance history, percent body fat, and abdominal/hip or waist/hip ratios in eumenorrheic vs amenorrheic dancers. Estimated calorie intake indicated that dancers with menstrual abnormalities had lower calorie intake than those with normal menses. This is the largest group of ballet dancers whose body composition has been studied. Our PBF measurements are higher than in previous reports using hydrodensitometry, which may have underestimated body fat by not accounting for the increased bone density in the lower extremities of dancers. Our data suggest that previous measurements of PBF in dancers are underestimates; these new data challenge our concept of PBF values in dancers. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding following open heart surgery. Predominant finding of aggressive duodenal ulcer disease. We reviewed our experience with endoscopically evaluated severe upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage following open heart surgery. Of 4892 patients undergoing open heart surgery, 18 (0.4%) sustained upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage requiring endoscopic evaluation. Endoscopy identified the source of bleeding in all cases. No significant complications of endoscopy were observed. Duodenal ulcers (DUs) were found in 16 (89%) of cases and were felt to be the source of bleeding in 15 (83%). Aggressive features, such as multiplicity, large size, or distal location were associated with 13 (81%) of the DU cases. Complications necessitated endoscopic or surgical therapy in eight (44%) patients with DUs. We conclude that aggressive DU disease accounts for the majority of severe upper gastrointestinal bleeding following open heart surgery. 
Efficacy of transrectal ultrasound for identification of clinically undetected prostate cancer. A total of 51 patients underwent transrectal ultrasound of the prostate before radical cystoprostatectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Each had a normal prostate by digital rectal examination, no history of prostatic adenocarcinoma and no invasion of the prostate by transitional cell carcinoma. Real-time and step-sectioned ultrasound images were interpreted at the time of sonography and results were compared to pathological examination of the step-sectioned prostate specimen. When adenocarcinoma was identified in the specimen, cancer volume was determined. Positive ultrasound scans consisted of those exhibiting hypoechoic lesions. Hypoechogenicity due to transurethral resection defects, benign hyperplasia, vascular structures or shadowing from calcifications was not considered positive. Of 51 patients 27 (52.9%) exhibited no abnormality on ultrasound and were free of cancer in the prostate specimen, while 8 (15.7%) demonstrated a hypoechoic lesion that was proved to be prostate cancer. Seven patients (13.7%) with normal transrectal ultrasound scans had adenocarcinoma of the prostate, while 9 (17.6%) had lesions on ultrasound but no cancer. Based on these results, transrectal ultrasound has a sensitivity of 53.3% and a specificity of 75%. Further analysis reveals that transrectal ultrasound is more accurate in the detection of cancers of greater than 0.20 cc in volume than those of 0.20 cc or less. Transrectal ultrasound also is more accurate in the detection of peripheral zone than transition zone cancers. 
Circadian infusion of floxuridine in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. A total of 42 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received floxuridine infusion for 14 days at monthly intervals. The drug was delivered via an external programmable pump on a time-modified or circadian schedule; the highest dose of 68% was given between 3 and 9 p.m. Of the 42 patients 25 (60%) had undergone prior nephrectomy. Of the 40 evaluable patients 4 (10%, 95% confidential interval 3 to 24%) achieved a partial response: 3 of the 4 had undergone prior nephrectomy, while 1 had undergone renal angioinfarction. Another 4 patients (10%) had responses at metastatic sites but no response in the primary kidney tumor. The median duration of response for these 2 groups of patients was 65 and 27 weeks, respectively, and the most responsive site was the lungs. The treatment was generally well tolerated and could be administered on an outpatient basis. Our study confirms the limited but definite activity of floxuridine infused on a circadian schedule in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. We observed responses in metastasis equally in patients with or without prior nephrectomy. 
Human IgE, IgG4 and resistance to reinfection with Schistosoma haematobium. A well recognized feature of the immune response to parasitic helminth infections, including schistosomiasis, is the production of large amounts of specific and nonspecific IgE1,2. Immunological pathways involving IgE can lead to damage to the developing schistosomulum and it has been suggested that responses involving IgE could have evolved as protection against helminth infections. There has been no epidemiological evidence to support this idea and the only significant IgE responses known in man are those involved in the pathogenesis of allergic disease. Here we measure serological response during reinfection with S. haematobium and demonstrate that IgE antibodies in man can be beneficial. Our results support the hypothesis that the slow build-up of IgE to high levels and the early production of IgG4 antibodies, which may block IgE pathways are responsible for delaying the development of protective immunity to S. haematobium. 
The role of reperfusion-induced injury in the pathogenesis of the crush syndrome. The crush syndrome consists of the general manifestations that follow prolonged continuous pressure on the limbs. These manifestations are caused by the disintegration of muscle tissue and leakage of the contents of myocytes into the plasma. The morbidity and mortality associated with this syndrome are high. The pathophysiologic process of the derangements associated with the crush syndrome is not fully understood, but the injury induced by reperfusion is likely to be important in its development. The injury due to reperfusion involves many factors, but it is currently ascribed largely to the release of oxygen free radicals, massive accumulation of calcium in ischemic muscles, and the infiltration of neutrophils into reperfused vessels. Since ischemic muscles cannot survive without reperfusion, a strategy to salvage as much of the muscle and kidney tissue as possible in the crush syndrome must include ways of decreasing injury during ischemia and reperfusion. Various pharmacologic agents may attenuate or prevent reperfusion-induced injury to ischemic skeletal muscles and consequently to other organs, particularly the kidneys. 
Results and prognostic factors of surgery in the management of non-small cell lung cancer with solitary brain metastasis. Between 1975 and 1988, 37 patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and synchronous (within 1 month, n = 10) or metachronous (n = 27) solitary brain metastasis (SBM) underwent combined excision of their lesions. Overall 5-year and median survival were 30% and 27 months (range, 3 to 125+ months), respectively. Twenty-seven patients had a relapse, and their median disease-free interval (DFI) was 17.5 months (range, 1 to 108 months). The most frequent (78%, n = 20) site of first recurrence locally was either the ipsilateral thorax (n = 14) or brain (n = 6). In univariate analysis, age, primary tumor and lymph node status; tumor histology, size, and side; type of pulmonary resection; side and location of SBM; and onset of presentation did not affect survival and DFI. By contrast, the interval (less than or equal to versus greater than 12 months) between the two operations significantly affected survival (P = 0.0096) and DFI (P = 0.046). The DFI was also affected by the administration of adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) for the primary tumor (P = 0.02). Using the Cox model, AC was the most independent predictor of DFI. These data support the inclusion of surgery in the therapeutic armamentarium for patients with NSCLC and SBM. 
Cerebrovascular events after myocardial infarction: analysis of the GISSI trial. Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Streptochinasi nell'Infarto Miocardico (GISSI). OBJECTIVES--To describe the epidemiology of cerebrovascular events in patients given or not given fibrinolytic treatment and to assess the prognostic implications and risk factors. DESIGN--Case series derived from the GISSI randomised trial. SETTING--176 coronary care units in Italy giving various levels of care. PATIENTS--5860 patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with 1.5 million units of intravenous streptokinase and 5852 patients not given fibrinolytic treatment. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cerebrovascular event, sex, age, blood pressure, history of previous infarct, site of infarction, and Killip class. RESULTS--99 of 11,712 patients (0.84%) had a cerebrovascular event. Older age, worse Killip class, and anterior location of infarction seemed to be risk factors for cerebrovascular events (40/3201 aged 65-75 v 42/7295 aged less than 65, odds ratio 2.18; 9/437 class 3 v 55/8277 class 1, 1.81; and 57/4878 anterior v 24/4013 posterior, 1.96). No significant difference was found in the rate of cerebrovascular events between patients treated with streptokinase and controls (45/5852 (0.92%) streptokinase v 54/5860 (0.77) control). More patients in the streptokinase group than in the control group had cerebrovascular events (especially haemorrhagic strokes) on day 0-1 after randomisation (27 streptokinase v 7, control), although this was balanced by late events in control patients (54 streptokinase v 45 control at one year). The mortality of patients who had a cerebrovascular event was higher than that of those who did not (47% (47/99) v 11.6% (1350/11,613]. CONCLUSIONS--Although the incidence of cerebrovascular events complicating myocardial infarction was low, they increased morbidity and mortality. Treatment with streptokinase did not significantly alter the incidence, but age and poor haemodynamic state were associated with an increased risk. 
Complications associated with brachytherapy alone or with laser in lung cancer. Relatively little has been reported about destruction through brachytherapy of mucosa-perforating and extraluminary tumors with probable large vessel involvement causing major hemorrhagic or fistular complications. We report 12 patients subjected to laser and brachytherapy for centrally occluding lung cancer, whom we have periodically followed up from June 1986 until they died. Although all laser procedures were free from complications, necrotic cavitation in five cases, two of which were accompanied by large bronchoesophageal fistulas, and massive fatal hemoptysis occurred in six. Minor complications included radiation mucositis (two), noncritical mucosal scarring (two), and cough (four). Characteristics that will identify patients at risk of developing fatal hemoptysis and fistulas should be better defined by imaging and endoscopic techniques. In such cases, modifying the protocol or using alternative procedures should be considered. Minor complications, such as cough, can be avoided by using topical steroid therapy (eg, beclomethasone dipropionate). 
Effect of exercise intensity and duration on regional function during and after exercise-induced ischemia. BACKGROUND. Transient reversible myocardial dysfunction has been documented after episodes of exercise-induced ischemia. This study was undertaken to determine whether the duration or intensity of exercise affects the severity of postischemic dysfunction in this setting. METHODS AND RESULTS. Ten dogs were instrumented with ultrasonic microcrystals for measurement of wall thickening, with circumflex coronary artery flow probes, and with hydraulic occluders. Dogs performed low-intensity exercise, which was sufficient to increase coronary perfusion 50% above control, and high-intensity exercise, which was sufficient to double coronary blood flow. To investigate the effects of exercise intensity on postischemic dysfunction, we had dogs perform high-intensity exercise for 5 minutes in the presence of a stenosis. On the alternate day, dogs performed low-intensity exercise for 10 minutes in the presence of a stenosis. These two protocols provide equivalent coronary flow debts. Mean transmural blood flow during high-intensity exercise without stenosis (2.61 +/- 0.54 ml/min/g) was significantly higher than that during low-intensity exercise (1.74 +/- 0.61 ml/min/g, p less than 0.002). During high-intensity exercise with coronary artery stenosis, subendocardial blood flow was significantly lower than that during low-intensity exercise with stenosis (0.64 +/- 0.40 versus 1.08 +/- 0.28 ml/min/g, p less than 0.02). This difference in subendocardial perfusion was associated with greater degrees of regional dysfunction during exercise (circumflex wall thickening was 44 +/- 23% of control for high-intensity exercise versus 60 +/- 18% of control for low-intensity exercise, p less than 0.01). In addition, from 10 to 30 minutes after exercise, wall thickening in myocardium perfused by the circumflex coronary artery remained significantly lower after high-intensity exercise than that after low-intensity exercise. To assess the effects of exercise duration on the severity of postischemic dysfunction, we had dogs perform low-intensity exercise in the presence of a coronary stenosis for 10 minutes and low-intensity exercise for only 5 minutes on alternate days. Systolic wall thickening was significantly lower after low-intensity exercise for 10 minutes than after low-intensity exercise for 5 minutes. CONCLUSIONS. High-intensity exercise results in greater degrees of subendocardial hypoperfusion and greater degrees of regional dysfunction both during and after exercise-induced ischemia than does low-intensity exercise. Second, exercise duration also exerts an effect on the severity of postischemic dysfunction, although the magnitude of this effect is less important than the effect of exercise intensity. 
Association of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis in carcinoma of the breast with infiltrating lobular carcinoma. An autopsy study. We analyzed the autopsy records of 261 patients with breast carcinoma, who died at The Institute of Oncology, Ljubljana, Yugoslavia, for the presence of metastases to the central nervous system, particularly for the presence of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. Metastases to the central nervous system were found in 41 (18.1%) of 226 patients who had metastatic cancer. In 24 cases (10.6%), metastases were seen in brain parenchyma; in 11 cases (4.9%), only dura mater was involved, and in six cases (2.6%), leptomeningeal carcinomatosis was found. All patients with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis showed some symptoms of central nervous system involvement while alive. The patients died between 2 weeks and 2 months after the onset of central nervous system symptoms. Four of six patients with such a complication presented with locally advanced or disseminated carcinoma on the first admission. With regard to histologic findings, three patients had infiltrating lobular carcinoma, two had infiltrating ductal carcinoma, and one had mixed infiltrating lobular and ductal carcinoma, with a metastasizing lobular component. Metastases to the brain parenchyma were found exclusively in infiltrating ductal carcinoma. We stress that infiltrating lobular carcinoma represents a distinctive type of breast cancer with an unusual propensity to disseminate into leptomeninges, as this occurred in almost 14% of all cases of infiltrating lobular carcinoma in our series in contrast to a 1% incidence in cases of infiltrating ductal carcinoma. 
Leiomyosarcoma arising in atypical fibromuscular hyperplasia (phyllodes tumor) of the prostate with distant metastasis. An extremely rare neoplasm of the prostate, commonly known as phyllodes type of atypical prostatic hyperplasia, is described in a 57-year-old man. Over a 2-year period, the atypical smooth muscle component has transformed into leiomyosarcoma, and eventually metastasized to the bones and the lungs. Such an evolution has never been documented for this tumor. 
Predictors and prevalence of obstructive sleep apnoea and snoring in 1001 middle aged men. One thousand and one men, aged 35-65 years, were identified from the age-sex register of one group general practice. Over four years 900 men were visited at home and asked questions about symptoms potentially related to sleep apnoea and snoring. Height, weight, neck circumference, resting arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2), and spirometric values were also determined. All night oximetry was then performed at home and the tracing analysed for the number of dips in SaO2 of more than 4%. Subjects with more than five dips of 4% SaO2 or more per hour were invited for sleep laboratory polysomnography. Seventeen per cent of the men admitted to snoring "often." Multiple linear regression techniques identified and ranked neck circumference (r2 = 7.2%), cigarette consumption (r2 = 3.4%), and nasal stuffiness (r2 = 2%) as the only significant independent predictors of snoring. Together these account for at least a sixfold variation in the likelihood of being an "often" snorer. Forty six subjects (5%) had greater than 4% SaO2 dip rates of over five an hour and 31 of these had full sleep studies. Three subjects had clinically obvious and severe symptomatic obstructive sleep apnoea, giving a prevalence of three per 1001 men (0.3%; 95% confidence interval 0.07-0.9%). Eighteen men had obstructive sleep apnoea only when supine and in 10 the cause of the SaO2 dipping on the original home tracing was not elucidated. The greater than 4% SaO2 dip rates correlated with the history of snoring. Multiple linear regression techniques identified and ranked neck circumference (r2 = 7.9%), alcohol consumption (r2 = 3.7%), age (r2 = 1%) and obesity (r2 = 1%) as the only significant independent predictors of the rate of overnight hypoxic dipping. This study shows that snoring in this randomly selected population correlates best with neck size, smoking, and nasal stuffiness. Obstructive sleep apnoea, defined by nocturnal hypoxaemia, correlates best with neck size and alcohol, and less so with age and general obesity. 
Intramedullary nailing for impending pathological subtrochanteric fractures. We reviewed ten patients with metastatic carcinoma and impending pathological fractures of the subtrochanteric region of the femur who had prophylactic insertion of the Russell-Taylor reconstruction nail. There were no operative complications or long-term mechanical failures. This reconstruction nail has some technical and biomechanical advantages over other implants and is ideal for the management of such cases. 
Effects of radiation on testicular function in long-term survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a report from the Children Cancer Study Group. Testicular function was evaluated in 60 long-term survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). All the patients were treated on two consecutive Children Cancer Study Group protocols and received identical chemotherapy and either 18 or 24 Gy radiation therapy (RT) to one of the following fields: craniospinal plus 12 Gy abdominal RT including the gonads (group 1); craniospinal (group 2); or cranial (group 3). The median age at the time of their last evaluation was 14.5 years (range, 10.5 to 25.7), which took place a median of 5.0 years (range, 1 to 10.3) after discontinuing therapy. The incidence of primary germ cell dysfunction as judged by raised levels of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and/or reduced testicular volume was significantly associated with field of RT; 55% of group 1, 17% of group 2, and 0% of group 3 were abnormal (P = .002). Leydig cell function, as assessed by plasma concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone, and pubertal development, was unaffected in the majority of subjects regardless of RT field. These data indicate that in boys undergoing therapy for ALL, germ cell dysfunction is common following testicular irradiation and can occur following exposure to scattered irradiation from craniospinal RT. In contrast, Leydig cell function appears resistant to direct irradiation with doses as high as 12 Gy. 
Effect of hypercapnia on total pulmonary resistance during wakefulness and during NREM sleep. We investigated the effect of different levels of hypercapnia on total pulmonary resistance (RL) in 13 subjects ranging from nonsnorers with low RL to snorers with high RL and dynamic narrowing of the upper airway during inspiration. Added CO2 was adjusted to achieve a steady-state increase in PETCO2 of +2, +4, or +6 mm Hg. RL was measured at peak inspiratory flow (RLpf), at maximal resistance within breath (RLmax), and at 10 equally spaced points within inspiration in several trials. During wakefulness, hypercapnia was associated with decreased RLmax. During steady state +6 mm Hg hypercapnia, RLmax decreased by 30% (p less than 0.01). During NREM sleep, low levels of hypercapnia did not affect RL. However, +6 mm Hg hypercapnia was associated with decreased RLmax in six of eight subjects (p = 0.07), especially in subjects with high RLmax during room air breathing. The effects of hypercapnia on RLpf paralleled its effect on RLmax. We concluded that (1) the decrease in RL during awake hypercapnia suggests an increase in upper airway dimensions and stiffness, (2) the absence of increased RL during low level NREM hypercapnia (despite the increase in inspiratory flows and collapsing pressures) also suggests an increase in upper airway dimensions and stiffness, and (3) upper airway dilating muscles appear to be recruited in a coordinated fashion with inspiratory muscles in normal humans during NREM sleep. The implications of these findings in patients with obstructive sleep apnea are not clear at this point. 
Argon laser-assisted anastomoses in medium-size vessels: one-year follow-up. Laser-assisted anastomosis of medium-size vessels can be performed with satisfactory short-term patency. This study was undertaken to evaluate patency and structural integrity up to 1 year. An argon laser was used to make bilateral femoral arteriovenous anastomoses in 12 dogs compared to conventional suture method in another 8 dogs. These anastomoses were evaluated for patency and aneurysm formation at 1 hour; 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks; and 12 months after surgery. All anastomotic sites were patent and without aneurysmal change or luminal narrowing at all harvesting intervals. Histologic examination revealed that within 1 month laser anastomotic sites were almost completely healed and without intimal hyperplasia. In suture anastomoses, foreign-body reaction remained evident up to 1 year. Use of the argon laser for medium size vessel anastomoses resulted in excellent patency without aneurysm formation or intimal hyperplasia even in the long term. These data suggest promising clinical applications. 
Inhibitory effect of sandostatin on secretion of luteinising hormone and ovarian steroids in polycystic ovary syndrome. Hyperinsulinism accompanies the raised luteinising hormone (LH) concentrations in women with the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Somatostatin inhibits insulin and LH secretion in healthy adults, so the effect of treatment with a long-acting somatostatin analogue ('Sandostatin') on gonadotropin and androgen secretion in PCOS was investigated. LH pulsatility, androgen concentrations, and hormonal responses to an oral glucose load and to administration of a GnRH agonist (buserelin) were measured before and after 7 days' treatment with sandostatin 100 micrograms subcutaneously twice a day in 10 amenorrhoeic women with classic features of PCOS. Sandostatin significantly reduced integrated LH concentrations and LH pulse amplitudes, oestradiol, testosterone, and androstenedione concentrations, and LH responses to buserelin; it also suppressed insulin and C-peptide responses to an oral glucose load. Thus sandostatin inhibits pituitary and ovarian hormonal responses in part by a direct influence on pituitary activity, and the possibility of an indirect effect mediated by changes in insulin concentrations requires investigation. These findings have implications for the treatment of infertility in women with PCOS. 
Stop codon in the procollagen II gene (COL2A1) in a family with the Stickler syndrome (arthro-ophthalmopathy). Linkage analysis with restriction fragment length polymorphisms for the gene for type II procollagen (COL2A1) was carried out in a family with the Stickler syndrome, or arthro-ophthalmopathy, an autosomal dominant disorder that affects the eyes, ears, joints, and skeleton. The analysis demonstrated linkage of the disease and COL2A1 with a logarithm-of-odds score of 1.51 at zero recombination. A newly developed procedure for preparing cosmid clones was employed to isolate the allele for type II procollagen that was linked to the disease. Analysis of over 7000 nucleotides of the gene revealed a single base mutation that altered a CG dinucleotide and converted the codon CGA for arginine at amino acid position alpha 1-732 to TGA, a stop codon. From previous work on procollagen biosynthesis, it is apparent that the truncated polypeptide synthesized from an allele with a stop codon at alpha 1-732 cannot participate in the assembly of type II procollagen, and therefore that the mutation would decrease synthesis of type II procollagen. It was not apparent, however, why the mutation produced marked changes in the eye, which contains only small amounts of type II collagen, but relatively mild effects on the many cartilaginous structures of the body that are rich in the same protein. 
The trk proto-oncogene product: a signal transducing receptor for nerve growth factor The trk proto-oncogene encodes a 140-kilodalton, membrane-spanning protein tyrosine kinase (p140prototrk) that is expressed only in neural tissues. Nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates phosphorylation of p140prototrk in neural cell lines and in embryonic dorsal root ganglia. Affinity cross-linking and equilibrium binding experiments with 125I-labeled NGF indicate that p140prototrk binds NGF specifically in cultured cells with a dissociation constant of 10(-9) molar. The identification of p140prototrk as an NGF receptor indicates that this protein participates in the primary signal transduction mechanism of NGF. 
Duodenal somatostatinoma with congenital pseudoarthrosis. We describe a previously unreported association between somatostatinoma and congenital pseudoarthrosis. Because pseudoarthrosis is part of von Recklinghausen's disease, in turn with an association with somatostatinoma, we speculate on a link between pseudoarthrosis and somatostatinoma. 
Repeat infusion of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in patients with acute myocardial infarction and early recurrent myocardial ischemia. When conventional treatment of patients with early clinical reinfarction after thrombolytic therapy fails, mechanical revascularization may be attempted. An alternative strategy, repeat thrombolytic infusions, is reported. Fifty-two patients with acute myocardial infarction were treated with one or two additional thrombolytic infusions of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) because of nonsustained ischemia after initial treatment with rt-PA or streptokinase. Thirty-five patients received the second infusion within 1 h of the first; 13 patients received the second infusion 1 to 72 h after the first and 4 patients received it later during their hospitalization. Bleeding complications occurred in 10 patients (19%); however, most of these were minor (no intracranial bleeding) and only 2 patients required blood transfusion. In 14 patients in whom the decrease in fibrinogen and plasminogen levels was measured after the first and second infusions, this decrease was only 25% and 63%, respectively--only slightly higher than the 22% and 53% decreases measured in 63 patients who had only one rt-PA infusion. In 44 patients (85%), the acute ischemia resolved completely within 1 h after initiation of the second infusion. In 23 patients (44%), pain and ST segment elevation did not recur and invasive coronary intervention was avoided. Thus, repeat rt-PA infusions can stabilize a substantial number of patients with acute reinfarction and, even when relief is temporary, repeat rt-PA infusions can minimize myocardial damage while patients await mechanical revascularization. 
Assessment of quality of life. Assessment of quality of life has emerged in recent years as an important part of the overall evaluation of drug therapy and health care in general. Measurement techniques for this difficult assessment range from simple unqualified questions on patient well-being to complex statistical analyses of a wide range of lifestyle and activity variables. The factors that influence quality of life during chronic drug therapy differ in the treatment of symptomatic (e.g., heart failure) vs asymptomatic (e.g., hypertension) disease, and include drug side effects, relief of symptoms, improved prognosis, return to work, physical activity and the need for further hospital treatments. The manifestation of quality of life varies for different people leading to lack of agreement on the precise definition. The absence of standardization of methods of measurement also contributes to this and leads to lack of comparability of studies and unreasonable claims by some drug manufacturers. Further complicating issues in multicenter trials across countries include language problems and interethnic differences in "sickness" behavior. The recently introduced quality-adjusted life year (QALY) index, designed to take account of both the quality and duration of life in assessing the outcome of treatments, may avoid some of these problems. By classifying illness states (the Rosser index) on the basis of disability and distress, and comparing outcomes in terms of improved prognosis, QALYs have already been used for cost/benefit analyses of a number of new and expensive therapies. Like other methods, QALYs have problems related to variability in individual appreciation of life values. To date, a perfect method of quality of life assessment remains elusive. 
Evidence for a defect in growth hormone-releasing factor signal transduction in the dwarf (dw/dw) rat pituitary. Dwarf (dw/dw) rats exhibit a 40% reduction in body growth, isolated GH deficiency (less than 5% of normal pituitary content), and a decreased number of pituitary somatotrophs (15-20% of normal). Since GH-releasing factor (GRF) stimulates GH synthesis and secretion and somatotroph proliferation, and its effects are probably mediated by cAMP, we have assessed GH secretion and cAMP production in dw rat pituitaries in response to various GH secretagogues. Dispersed pituitary cells from dw rats were less sensitive (2.5-fold) to stimulation of GH secretion by GRF and showed a 25% reduction in the maximal GH response even after normalization of their reduced GH content. Intracellular cAMP was elevated 63-fold over basal levels in normal cells after 4 h in response to maximal GRF stimulation, but only 1.9-fold in dw cells, and even larger differences between the groups were found at earlier time points. The GH responses of dw cells to exogenous cAMP, however, were indistinguishable from normal. Forskolin, a direct stimulator of adenylate cyclase, elicited comparable maximal GH and cAMP responses, but an increased ED50, in dw cells. Activation of GS alpha by cholera toxin showed an increased ED50 and reduced GH and cAMP responses in dw cells, and marked decreases in these responses were observed in response to prostaglandin E1. Phorbol ester stimulation resulted in a reduced maximal GH response in dw cells without a change in sensitivity. These results provide evidence for a defect in the GRF signal transduction pathway associated with a decreased ability of GS alpha to stimulate adenylate cyclase in dw rat somatotrophs that may be causally linked to their GH deficiency. 
Reaction time and movement velocity abnormalities in Parkinson's disease under different task conditions. We examined reaction times, movement velocities, and the associated agonist and antagonist muscle behaviors in nine Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and eight normal subjects before and after medications, using a wrist extension task to changing locations of a visual target. Targets changing 500 msec before an auditory "go" signal act as a preparatory cue, while targets changing at the time of the go signal provide a combined auditory and visual stimulus. Late target changes allowed examination of (1) reaction times during an ongoing movement, and (2) movement in the presence and absence of visual targets. PD prolonged the time from the onset agonist electromyographic activity and reduction of antagonist activity to movement onset. Both were shortened by preparatory cues and combined visual and auditory go signals. PD slowed movement only in a subset of trials in which there was movement to a displayed target. 
The proximal element of the beta globin locus control region is not functionally required in vivo. In addition to local sequence elements the regulation of the high-level, development- and tissue-specific expression of the human beta globin gene cluster appears to require distant regulatory sequences which have been termed locus control region. In the chromatin of erythroid cells the locus control region is characterized by four DNaseI hypersensitive sites that are located 6-18 kb 5' of the epsilon globin gene. The definition of the sequences minimally required for locus control region activity is likely to further the understanding of its physiology and will be of interest for the development of somatic gene therapy strategies of the hemoglobinopathies. We present here the analysis of a family with a 3,030-bp deletion of sequences upstream of the epsilon globin gene including the most 3' locus control region element and cosegregating beta degree thalassemia. The deletion is linked in cis to a structurally and functionally normal beta globin gene. The proximal element of the locus control region does not therefore appear to be necessary for beta globin gene activity in vivo. 
Alterations in the levels of iron, ferritin and other trace metals in Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases affecting the basal ganglia. Levels of iron, copper, zinc and manganese were measured by inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy in frozen postmortem brain tissue from patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy with strionigral degeneration (MSA), and Huntington's disease (HD) compared with control subjects. Total iron levels were found to be elevated in the areas of basal ganglia showing pathological change in these disorders. In particular, total iron content was increased in substantia nigra in PD, PSP and MSA, but not in HD. Total iron levels in the striatum (putamen and/or caudate nucleus) were increased in PSP, MSA and HD but not in PD. Total iron levels were decreased in the globus pallidus in PD. There were no consistent alterations of manganese levels in basal ganglia structures in any of the diseases studied. Copper levels were decreased in the substantia nigra in PD, and in the cerebellum in PSP, and were elevated in the putamen and possibly substantia nigra in HD. Zinc levels were only increased in PD, in substantia nigra and in caudate nucleus and lateral putamen. Levels of the iron binding protein ferritin were measured in the same patient groups using a radio-immunoassay technique. Increased iron levels in basal ganglia were generally associated with normal or elevated levels of ferritin immunoreactivity, for example, the substantia nigra in PSP and possibly MSA, and in putamen in MSA. The exception was PD where there was a generalized reduction in brain ferritin immunoreactivity, even in the substantia nigra. An increase in total iron content appears to be a response to neurodegeneration in affected basal ganglia regions in a number of movement disorders. However, only in PD was there an increased total iron level, decreased ferritin content, decreased copper content, and an increased zinc concentration in substantia nigra. These findings suggest an alteration of iron handling in the substantia nigra in PD. Depending on the form in which the excess iron load exists in nigra in PD, it may contribute to the neurodegenerative process. 
Revision of failed knee replacements using fixed-axis hinges. Forty failed hinged arthroplasties of the knee were revised by the insertion of another hinged implant. In 14 cases the prosthesis used at the revision operation was similar to the primary implant; in 26, a hinge with an elongated femoral stem was used, usually replacing part of the femoral shaft. In seven of these knees an elongated tibial stem was also required, though the tibial shaft was replaced in only two of them. There were many complications. Fracture of the femur at the tip of the femoral stem was the most frequent. Sixteen first revisions failed and were revised a second time; 12 required replacement of the distal femoral shaft and three required replacement of the proximal tibia. The incidence of complications in knees requiring a second revision was even higher. Four required a third revision after an average interval of three years. Failure of a hinged prosthesis results in bone loss mainly in the femur. Revision of a failed hinged prosthesis with another of the same design is unlikely to be successful and may cause fracture of the femur. 
The epidemiology of exposure to electromagnetic fields: an overview of the recent literature. Epidemiologic studies of exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) have been reviewed. Possible links to incidences of cancer and abnormal fetal development have been suggested by some investigators. In general, the results have been inconsistent. There are many deficiencies in the studies, and many questions have been raised about the validity of some of the conclusions proposed. There is currently no definitive evidence of an association between exposure to EMF and the alleged risks. Due to problems and limitations inherent in future studies (misconceptions about exposure levels, uncertainty about field variability, criticisms of surrogate measures), this question is unlikely to ever be answered with certainty. Unfortunately, many highly-publicized accounts of speculative and unsubstantiated claims have caused undue concern among the general public. 
Increased amino acid transport into brain tumors measured by PET of L-(2-18F)fluorotyrosine The uptake of L-(2-18F)fluorotyrosine (F-Tyr), a newly synthetized amino acid tracer, was studied in 15 patients with various brain tumors by dynamic PET. The higher F-Tyr accumulation in tumors (mean 27% above contralateral tissue) was associated with two-fold transport rates into tumors, while the rate constants describing irreversible incorporation were decreased. The increased F-Tyr transport was not correlated to 68Ga-EDTA accumulation and cannot be explained by disruption of the blood-brain barrier. Kinetic analysis of 2-(18F)-fluoro-deoxy-glucose accumulation in the same patients demonstrated that increased metabolic rates in tumors are mainly caused by altered phosphorylation rates while transport of glucose is less affected. Since F-Tyr transport rates clearly separated tumors from normal tissue and since F-Tyr accumulation was related to tumor grade, PET studies of F-Tyr uptake are of clinical value for diagnosis and classification of brain tumors. 
Similar prevalence of renovascular hypertension in selected blacks and whites. Renovascular hypertension is a potentially curable form of high blood pressure that is thought to be extremely rare among blacks. We demonstrate, however, that in a clinically selected population, the prevalence of renovascular hypertension is similar in blacks and whites. We prospectively evaluated 167 hypertensive subjects who had one or more clinical features known to be associated with renovascular hypertension. All subjects had captopril-stimulated peripheral renin measurements and conventional renal arteriography. All significant renal artery stenoses (greater than 50% luminal narrowing) were treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or surgery. Renovascular hypertension was diagnosed if there was a blood pressure response to interventional therapy, according to the criteria established by the Cooperative Study of Renovascular Hypertension. Of the total group evaluated, 24% (39 of 167) had renal artery stenosis and 14% (23 of 167) had renovascular hypertension. Renal artery stenosis or occlusion was found in 27% (26 of 97) of whites and 19% (13 of 67) of blacks (p = 0.27). Renovascular hypertension was diagnosed in 18% (17 of 97) of whites and 9% (6 of 67) of blacks evaluated (p = 0.25). Renovascular hypertension was associated with severe or refractory hypertension and with smoking, but there were no racial differences in these associations. Blacks with renovascular hypertension tended to have low captopril-stimulated peripheral renin activity. We conclude that blacks with clinical features suggestive of renovascular hypertension should be evaluated with angiography. Captopril-stimulated plasma renin may not be useful in detecting blacks with renovascular hypertension, but this and other potential screening tests require further evaluation. 
Reversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm by intravenous flecainide. Spontaneous reversion to sinus rhythm is a frequent occurrence in recent-onset atrial fibrillation (AF). In a randomized, double-blind, controlled study, intravenous flecainide (2 mg/kg, maximum dose 150 mg) was compared with placebo in the treatment of recent-onset AF (present for greater than or equal to 30 minutes and less than or equal to 72 hours' duration and a ventricular response greater than or equal to 120 beats/min). Intravenous digoxin (500 micrograms) was administered concurrently to all patients in both groups who had not previously taken digoxin. The trial medication was administered over 30 minutes. Exclusion criteria included hemodynamic instability, severe heart failure, recent antiarrhythmic therapy, hypokalemia and pacemaker dependence. One hundred two consecutive patients with recent-onset AF were enrolled in the study. All patients underwent continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in the intensive care or coronary care unit. Twenty-nine (57%) patients given flecainide and digoxin, but only 7 (14%) given placebo and digoxin, reverted to sinus rhythm in less than or equal to 1 hour after starting the trial medication infusion and remained in stable sinus rhythm (chi-square 18.9, p = 0.000013; odds ratio 8.3, 95% confidence interval 2.9 to 24.8). At the end of the 6-hour monitoring period, 34 patients (67%) in the flecainide-digoxin group were in stable sinus rhythm, whereas only 18 patients (35%) in the placebo-digoxin group had reverted (chi-square 8.83, p = 0.003; odds ratio 3.67, 95% confidence interval 1.5 to 9.1). 
Quadrantic visual field defects. A hallmark of lesions in extrastriate (V2/V3) cortex. We report 2 patients with homonymous quadrantic visual field defects. The first patient experienced scintillations in the left lower quadrant, leading to the discovery of an astrocytoma in the cuneus of the right occipital lobe. Postoperatively she had a left lower quadrantanopia that precisely respected the horizontal meridian. The second patient presented with a left lower quadrantanopia, sparing the central 10 degrees of vision that also respected the horizontal meridian. An astrocytoma was resected from the right upper peristriate cortex. We must explain how a lesion in extrastriate cortex produced a homonymous field defect with a sharp horizontal edge in these 2 patients. Areas V2 and V3 are each divided along the horizontal meridian into separate halves flanking striate cortex. Consequently, the upper and lower quadrants in extrastriate cortex are physically isolated on opposite sides of striate cortex. We propose that a lesion involving V2/V3 may be sufficient to create a visual field defect. Although the lesion may have irregular margins, if it crosses the representation of the horizontal meridian in extrastriate cortex, it will produce a quadrantic visual field defect with a sharp horizontal border because of the split layout of the upper and lower quadrants in V2/V3. 
Effectiveness of recombinant desulphatohirudin in reducing restenosis after balloon angioplasty of atherosclerotic femoral arteries in rabbits BACKGROUND. The effectiveness of balloon angioplasty is limited by a restenosis rate of approximately 30%. Recombinant desulphatohirudin (r-hirudin [CGP 39393]) has been found to be highly effective in preventing acute platelet-rich thrombosis after deep arterial injury as compared with heparin. METHODS AND RESULTS. This study evaluated the effect of intravenous r-hirudin, a selective inhibitor of thrombin, on restenosis after balloon angioplasty in 29 rabbits. Focal femoral atherosclerosis was induced by air desiccation endothelial injury followed by a 2% cholesterol diet for 1 month. At angioplasty (2.5-mm balloon with three 60-second, 10-atm inflations 60 seconds apart), the rabbits received heparin (150 units/kg bolus, n = 16) or r-hirudin (1 mg/kg bolus followed by infusions of 1 mg/kg for the first hour and 0.5 mg/kg for the second hour, n = 13). Angiograms performed before and after angioplasty and before death were analyzed quantitatively by a blinded observer. Rabbits were killed 2 hours (n = 14) or 28 days (n = 15) after angioplasty. Femoral arteries were fixed in situ by perfusion of 10% formaldehyde at 100 mm Hg. The mean luminal diameter of the arteries with successful angioplasty (greater than or equal to 20% increase in luminal diameter) in rabbits treated with heparin (n = 8 arteries) increased from 1.18 +/- 0.29 mm before angioplasty to 1.86 +/- 0.24 mm immediately after angioplasty (p less than 0.001) and decreased to 0.94 +/- 0.69 mm (p = 0.0004) at 28 days after angioplasty. In rabbits treated with r-hirudin (n = 11 arteries), the mean luminal diameter increased from 1.14 +/- 0.17 mm before angioplasty to 1.68 +/- 0.20 mm immediately after angioplasty (p less than 0.001) and decreased to 1.37 +/- 0.47 mm (p = 0.01) at 28 days after angioplasty. The mean reduction in luminal diameter by angiography was less in the r-hirudin-treated group than in the heparin-treated group (0.30 +/- 0.33 versus 0.92 +/- 0.61 mm, p = 0.01). Blinded planimetric analysis of stained histological sections of the femoral arteries also showed less cross-sectional area narrowing by plaque in rabbits treated with r-hirudin compared with those treated with heparin (22 +/- 16% verus 48 +/- 29%, p = 0.01). Both groups had similar numbers of arteries with histological evidence of balloon-induced plaque tear (12 of 13 versus 13 of 15). CONCLUSIONS. Rabbits receiving r-hirudin at the time of experimental balloon angioplasty had significantly less restenosis by angiography and by quantitative histopathology than rabbits receiving heparin. 
High-attenuation mediastinal masses on unenhanced CT. On unenhanced CT scans, a variety of mediastinal masses contain areas with attenuation values higher than the attenuation value of the chest wall musculature. The increased attenuation may be diffuse or focal and may be a result of calcium deposition, high iodine content, or areas of acute hemorrhage. This report illustrates the gamut of high-attenuation mediastinal masses seen on unenhanced CT. Masses that are of high attenuation only on IV contrast-enhanced images (e.g., aberrant vessels) are not included. 
Growth of human breast cancer cell lines is inhibited by the somatostatin analog BIM23014. Somatostatin has been shown to lower plasma levels of various hormones and growth factors involved in regulation of the growth of human breast cells. In the present study we examined the ability of the somatostatin octapeptide analog BIM23014 to modulate the in vitro growth of five human breast cell lines: HBL100, Hs578T, MDAMB231, T47D, and MCF7. BIM23014 inhibited the growth of the two steroid-dependent cell lines, MCF7 and T47D, in a dose-related manner. This inhibitory effect was only observed when MCF7 and T47D cells were cultivated in medium containing steroid-depleted serum. The growth of a MCF7 variant capable of growth in serum-free medium was also inhibited by BIM23014, indicating that serum factors are not required for this inhibition. In the serum-free medium, the addition of estradiol before or during treatment with BIM23014 abolished its inhibitory effects on cell growth. The studies including time course, competitive inhibition, and cross-linking of iodinated BIM23014 to its receptor revealed a specific binding on MCF7 cells and showed a single 57,000 mol wt protein band in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. These results support the hypothesis that BIM23014 inhibits the growth of steroid-receptor positive cells of human breast cancers through its own receptor in estradiol-free conditions. 
Coronary vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage as a cause of stunned myocardium. Case report. A patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage was found to have electrocardiographic abnormalities resembling an acute myocardial infarction as well as left ventriculographic findings of cardiac dysfunction. These cardiac abnormalities resolved following surgical clipping of the aneurysm and the patient recovered well from the operation. She died 2 months later from cancer and a postmortem examination at that time revealed no evidence of myocardial necrosis. In this report, the authors discuss coronary vasospasm and reversible postischemic "stunned myocardium," a condition that has not been considered previously in relation to subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Hypertrophy and increased gene expression of neurons containing neurokinin-B and substance-P messenger ribonucleic acids in the hypothalami of postmenopausal women. We have previously described hypertrophy of neurons containing estrogen receptor mRNA in the infundibular nucleus of postmenopausal women. In the present investigation we identified peptide mRNAs in the hypertrophied neurons and determined whether postmenopausal neuronal hypertrophy was accompanied by changes in gene expression. In the first study in situ hybridization was performed on sections from hypothalami of postmenopausal women (n = 3) using synthetic 35S-labeled cDNA probes complementary to mRNAs encoding estrogen receptor, substance-P (SP), neurokinin-B (NKB), POMC, cholecystokinin, dynorphin, CRF, enkephalin, galanin, neuropeptide-Y, GH-releasing hormone, and tyrosine hydroxylase. Neuronal cross-sectional areas and cell densities were measured with the aid of a computer microscope system. Neurons labeled with the NKB and SP probes were comparable in size, morphology, and distribution to the hypertrophied neurons containing estrogen receptor mRNA. In contrast, neurons labeled with other cDNA probes were sparsely distributed (CRF and dynorphin), smaller in size (neuropeptide-Y, galanin, GH-releasing hormone, enkephalin, cholecystokinin, and POMC), or located anterior to the hypertrophied population (tyrosine hydroxylase). In the second study sections from hypothalami of premenopausal (n = 3) and postmenopausal (n = 3) women were incubated with cDNA probes complementary to SP or NKB mRNAs. The mean cross-sectional areas of postmenopausal infundibular neurons containing NKB and SP mRNAs increased to 194% and 176% of premenopausal values, respectively. The autoradiographic grain densities of infundibular neurons labeled with either probe were also significantly increased in the postmenopausal group. Finally, the numbers of labeled neurons/tissue increased 6-fold (SP) and 15-fold (NKB) in the postmenopausal infundibular nucleus. These data demonstrate that human menopause is associated with marked increases in hypothalamic NKB and SP gene expression. We propose that neurons containing estrogen receptor, SP, and NKB mRNAs participate in the hypothalamic circuitry regulating estrogen negative feedback in the human. 
Relation of upper gastrointestinal bleeding to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin: a case-control study. We conducted a case-control study in five general hospitals in the region of Antwerp, studying 161 patients (102 men, 59 women) and hospital control subjects matched for age and sex to explore the relation between drug use and upper gastrointestinal bleeding from 'erosive lesions' (peptic oesophagitis, gastric erosions, gastric ulcer(s), or duodenal ulcer(s]. There was a highly significant difference between cases and control subjects in the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, excluding aspirin) (odds ratio 7.4, p less than 0.001; 95% confidence interval odds ratio 3.7 to 14.7). There also was a significant difference in the use of aspirin (odds ratio 2.2, p = 0.025; 95% CI odds ratio 1.3 to 4.0) and a highly significant difference regarding the presence of antecedents of peptic ulcer disease (odds ratio 5.5, p less than 0.001; 95% CI odds ratio 3.2 to 9.6). There was no significant difference in the use of other drugs, paracetamol and corticosteroids in particular, nor in the use of alcohol or tobacco. The patient group using NSAIDs was older, had more women, and had a higher mortality than the group not using NSAIDs. Among patients with bleeding gastric or duodenal ulcer(s), NSAID users were not more or less likely to have had symptoms of peptic ulcer disease, and had no higher frequency of multiple gastric or duodenal ulcers. The attributable risk for NSAID use was 0.30 (95% CI 0.23 to 0.37) and for aspirin use 0.14 (95% CI 0.08 to 0.20). 
Coronary arteriography in patients with dextrocardia. Coronary arteriography is described in a patient with dextrocardia and situs inversus totalis. Six cases of coronary arteriography in dextrocardia were reviewed from the literature, and 3 other cases were reported from the authors' institutions. In 9 of the 10 patients, coronary arteriography was performed without difficulty using standard Judkins or Sones catheters. Angiographers encountering patients with dextrocardia may use standard coronary arteriographic techniques with a few subtle modifications. 
Renal cell carcinoma with inferior vena caval involvement. Renal cell carcinoma extends into the lumen of the inferior vena cava in approximately 4% of patients at the time of diagnosis. Surgical removal of the intracaval tumor thrombus with radical nephrectomy is the preferred treatment for this malignancy. From January 1977 to June 1990, 31 such patients were examined for combined problems of renal carcinoma and intracaval tumor extension. Twenty-six of these patients underwent radical nephrectomy and vena caval thrombectomy. Ten patients had tumor thrombus confined to the infrahepatic vena cava, 11 had retrohepatic caval involvement, and 5 had extension to the level of the diaphragm or into the right atrium. Surgical approach was dictated by the level of caval involvement. Control of the suprahepatic vena cava plus temporary occlusion of hepatic arterial and portal venous inflow were necessary in some cases; cardiopulmonary bypass was required for transatrial removal of more extensive tumors. Five of the 26 patients had evidence before operation of distant metastatic disease; none of these survived beyond 12 months. The 5-year actuarial survival rate of the 21 patients without known preoperative metastatic disease was 57%. Complete surgical excision of all gross tumor appears to be critical for long-term survival in these patients. 
Gastric cancer after gastric bypass for obesity. Case report. We describe a patient in whom gastric cancer developed after gastric bypass for morbid obesity. In addition, we review the literature to emphasize the technical problems involved in diagnosing disease in the excluded portion of the stomach. 
Depressed adenoma of the stomach. Conceptual review and study of five cases. Depressed gastric adenoma is a recently featured lesion, distinguished by a depression in the gastric mucosa, with histologic changes of conventional adenomatous polyp. We observed five cases of depressed gastric adenoma, one of them associated with a peptic ulcer, another with a gastric stump, and yet another with an early gastric carcinoma. None of the cases was detected clinically by radiology or endoscopic study. Endoscopically, this lesion stimulates a peptic ulcer at a re-epithelialization stage or an early carcinoma of the depressed type. Histologically, all the cases showed dysplastic changes of varying degrees, with a relevant risk of malignancy. A similarity is shown to other lesions described in the gastric mucosa. 
Maxillofacial considerations in orthotopic liver transplantation. Orthotopic liver transplantation is now a widely used treatment for patients with end-stage liver disease. Lifelong pharmacologic immunosuppression renders these patients susceptible to many infections. The purpose of this article is to provide guidelines for treating the patient with end-stage liver disease, both before and after transplantation. In addition, we shall discuss some of the medical implications associated with end-stage liver disease and their clinical presentations and appropriate presurgical management. Adverse side effects of long-term immunosuppression and their effect on the oral and maxillofacial region shall also be discussed. Last, a brief discussion of FK506, the latest immunosuppressant, will be presented together with the implications of its use on our surgical treatment of these patients. 
Prevalence of asthma among 12 year old children in New Zealand and South Wales: a comparative survey. A survey of 12 year old schoolchildren was carried out in New Zealand and South Wales, the same questionnaire and exercise provocation test being used. The prevalence of a history of asthma at any time was higher in New Zealand (147/873, 17%) than in South Wales (116/965, 12%). The New Zealand children were also more likely than the Welsh children to have a history of "wheeze ever" (27% versus 22%), and wheeze brought on by running (15% versus 10.5%). The sex ratio of asthmatic and wheezy children was very similar in the two countries. A history of hospital admission for chest trouble was twice as common in New Zealand as in South Wales. An exercise test produced a fall in peak expiratory flow rate of 15% or more in more New Zealand children (12.2%) than Welsh children (7.7%). These results suggest that the prevalence of childhood asthma is higher in New Zealand than in South Wales. 
Proliferation and cytolytic function of anti-CD3 + interleukin-2 stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells following bone marrow transplantation. We evaluated the proliferation, cytolytic function, and phenotypic characteristics of anti-CD3 plus interleukin-2 (IL-2) stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 44 patients with leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) treated with multiagent chemotherapy or following bone marrow transplantation (BMT). BMT patients had decreased cell growth with only a 1.35 +/- 0.25 (autologous BMT for acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL]), 1.24 +/- 0.25 (autologous BMT for NHL), and 0.8 +/- 0.1 (allogeneic BMT for leukemia) mean fold increase by day 5 of culture compared with controls (4.0 +/- 0.4), P less than .001. Anti-CD3 + IL-2 activated cells from patients with ALL and NHL who had received autologous BMT and cells from patients with leukemia who underwent allogeneic BMT were more effective in lysing the natural killer (NK) sensitive target, K562, and the NK-resistant target, Daudi, compared with controls. In contrast, cytolysis of K562 and Daudi by cultured PBMCs from patients with ALL and NHL receiving multi-agent chemotherapy was similar to that of controls. Cultures from BMT recipients had a significant increase in CD16+ (autologous ALL 5.7 +/- 1.5%, P less than .01; autologous NHL 12.4 +/- 3.5%, P less than .001; allogeneic 14.3 +/- 2.9%, P less than .001) and CD56+ cells (autologous ALL 27.6 +/- 12.0%, P less than .01; autologous NHL 39.3 +/- 9.5%, P less than .001; allogeneic 42.7 +/- 7.4%, P less than .001) compared with controls (CD16+ 2.5 +/- 0.4%; CD56+ 6.9 +/- 0.9%). Stimulation of PBMCs with anti-CD3 + IL-2 is effective in generating cells with high cytolytic function post-BMT. 
The management of transitional cell carcinoma in solitary renal units. Ten patients with urothelial malignancies involving a solitary functioning renal unit were treated at our center for an average of 24 months or until death. These patients were all managed by parenchyma-sparing methods, including percutaneous as well as ureteroscopic tumor resection. Of our patients 9 have received adjunctive chemotherapy in the form of bacillus Calmette-Guerin instillations. At the time of this report 5 of our patients were alive without evidence of disease, 4 were alive with evidence of either residual or recurrent neoplasia and 1 was dead of disease 5 years after original presentation. Patients with higher grade tumors or carcinoma in situ did less well than patients with low grade disease. We present an analysis of our experience with this complex patient population and discuss the implications of these data within the context of a growing literature on the topic of upper tract urothelial malignancy. 
Perioperative stroke. Part I: General surgery, carotid artery disease, and carotid endarterectomy. Although stroke, defined as a focal neurological deficit lasting more than 24 hr, is uncommon in the perioperative period, its associated mortality and long-term disability are high. No large-scale data are available to identify the importance of recognized risk factors for stroke in the perioperative period. A review of the literature shows that the incidence and mechanism of its occurrence are influenced by the presence of cardiovascular disease and the type of surgery. The most common cause of perioperative stroke is embolism. In non-cardiac surgery, the incidence of perioperative stroke is higher among the elderly. Properly administered, controlled hypotension is associated with minimal risk of stroke. Cerebral vasospasm may be the cause of focal cerebral ischaemia in eclamptic patients, and the aggressive treatment of hypertension may exacerbate the neurological damage. The risk of stroke associated with carotid endarterectomy is closely related to the preoperative neurological presentation, and the experience of the surgical/anaesthetic team. Symptomatic cerebrovascular disease, acute stroke, asymptomatic carotid lesions, preoperative assessment of risk, local and general anaesthesia, cerebral protection and monitoring during carotid endarterectomy are discussed with reference to reducing the risk of perioperative stroke. Adequate monitoring and protection have minimized the risk of ischaemia from carotid clamping, and the major mechanism of stroke is embolization. 
Restenosis after coronary angioplasty: an overview. Despite substantial basic and clinical efforts to address the problem of restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention, effective preventive therapies have not yet been developed. Nevertheless, the accumulated information has provided much insight into the process of restenosis in addition to allowing standards to be developed for adequate clinical trials. The pathophysiology of restenosis increasingly appears to be distinct from that of primary atherosclerosis. Restenosis involves elastic recoil, incorporation of thrombus into the lesion and fibrocellular proliferation in varying degrees in different patients. Lack of an animal model that satisfactorily mimics restenosis is a major impediment to further understanding of the process. Clinical studies are hampered by difficulties in finding a single unifying definition of restenosis and by variable methods of reporting follow-up. Reporting of clinical outcomes of all patients in angiographic substudies would allow a more satisfactory interpretation of the results of clinical trials. Current noninvasive test results are not accurate enough to substitute for angiographic and clinical outcome data in intervention trials. In the majority of observational studies, only diabetes and unstable angina have emerged as consistently associated with restenosis; whereas most of the standard risk factors for atherosclerosis have a less consistent relation. Disappointingly, the new atherectomy and laser technologies have not affected restenosis rates. The one possible exception is coronary stenting, as a result of the larger luminal diameter achieved by the placement of the stent. In conclusion, although substantial continued effort is necessary to explore the basic aspects of cellular proliferation and mechanical alteration of atherosclerotic vessels, attention to the principles of clinical trials and observation are required to detect the impact of risk factors and interventions on the multifactorial problem of restenosis. Adequate sample sizes, collection of clinical and angiographic outcomes and factorial study designs hold promise for unraveling this important limitation of percutaneous intervention. 
Crescentic glomerulonephritis in Wegener's granulomatosis: morphology, therapy, outcome. Fourteen patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) and severe renal and extrarenal involvement were studied (serum creatinine on admission 5.8 +/- 3.4 mg/dl). Renal histology showed a necrotizing, crescentic glomerulonephritis in all patients. Despite advanced renal disease on admission cyclophosphamide, steroids (in 13 patients) and plasma exchange (in 9 patients) caused a rapid and sustained improvement of renal function. Four patients required intermittent hemodialysis over a period of one week. After 2 weeks of treatment serum creatinine values below 2 mg/dl (n = 4) indicated a nearly complete recovery of renal function in the long-term follow up (mean serum creatinine achieved after 12 months therapy: 1.1 +/- 0.1 mg/dl (n = 4). Therefore serum creatinine values observed after 2 weeks of therapy, appear to be of prognostic value with regard to renal outcome. No relapse of active WG or progressive renal deterioration was observed during follow-up (22 +/- 13 months) except in one patient with persisting renal impairment. Three patients died (staphylococcus sepsis, intracerebral hemorrhage during hypertensive crisis, pulmonary embolism) during the first two months of therapy. The decline of serum creatinine seemed to be a better indicator of successful therapy than the decrease of anticytoplasmatic antibody (ANCA), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and hematuria. On admission ANCA titer neither correlated with serum creatinine, the degree of renal involvement, nor was it of prognostic value. ANCA, serum creatinine and hematuria normalized within 2 to 8 months, whereas ESR and proteinuria remained elevated. Our data indicate a good prognosis of WG even with advanced renal involvement and generalized vasculitis provided aggressive treatment is performed early. 
The Istituto Rizzoli-Beretta experience with osteosarcoma of the jaw. Twenty-eight osteosarcomas (OS) of the jaw were reported. There were 15 male and 13 female patients (age range, 9 to 68 years; mean, 36.9 years); 57.1% of the patients were older than 30 years of age. Swelling was the most frequent symptom; it was reported on an average of 6 months before diagnosis. Most of the tumors of the maxilla (eight patients) occurred in the alveolar ridge (six of eight). In the mandible (20 patients), the body was the preferred site (11 of 20). Radiographically most of the lesions were either lytic and sclerotic or only lytic. Histologically, 12 cases (42.9%) were osteoblastic osteosarcoma, ten (35.8%) were chondroblastic, four (14.3%) were fibroblastic, and two (7%) were round cell OS. Of the 28 cases, three (10.7%) were low grade, and 25 (89.3%) were high grade. Thirteen patients had intralesional surgery, and 13 had marginal surgery as their initial treatment. Recurrence was the rule in the first group, and it was 69% in the second group. Twenty patients (71%) died, and eight are alive. Of these, two are alive with disease. In the six patients who are alive and disease-free, all but one had marginal to wide surgical margins at the time of the first procedure or wide margins at the time of the recurrences along with chemotherapy or radiation therapy. In the patient in which the surgical margins were marginal, the lesion was small 2.5 X 2 cm. This patient was alive without evidence of disease after 9 years of follow-up. 
Accuracy of a mixed venous saturation catheter during acutely induced changes in hematocrit in humans. OBJECTIVE: To determine the accuracy of in vivo mixed venous hemoglobin saturation (Svo2) measurements with a fiber optic thermodilution catheter during acute changes in hematocrit. DESIGN: Comparison of fiberoptic in vivo Svo2 values with in vitro Svo2 values obtained with a multiwavelength spectrophotometer. SETTING: Operating room in a university hospital. PATIENTS: Six consecutive patients who are Jehovah's Witnesses. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Before and after each step of hypervolemic hemodilution and after every 500 mL of blood loss, blood gases were analyzed and hemodynamic, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and in vitro and in vivo Svo2 measurements were made. Hematocrit values were measured in the range of 40% to 18%. Plotting all in vivo Svo2 values (n = 74) against the in vitro Svo2 measurements obtained during the entire study period gives r2 = .86. The accuracy of in vivo Svo2 measurements was not affected by changes in hematocrit or cardiac output. The Svo2 catheter value at the beginning of the study differed from the in vitro Svo2 value by -0.86 +/- 2.56% and at the end of the study period of 8 to 10 hrs by 0.71 +/- 3.04%. CONCLUSIONS: The accuracy of the studied fiberoptic continuous measuring Svo2 system was not affected by changes in hematocrit or cardiac output. No significant drift in the in vitro Svo2 measurements was observed. 
Valproate in the treatment of persistent chronic daily headache. An open label study. Thirty patients with persistent chronic daily headache, unresponsive to various combinations of pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment were selected for an open label study using divalproex sodium. All patients had normal liver function tests. After a baseline observation period of 1 month, patients were given divalproex sodium 1000 to 2000 mg per day, for a period of 3 months. Blood valproic acid levels were kept between 75 and 100 mcg/ml. Liver function studies and blood ammonia levels were obtained periodically. Based on weekly headache index, headache-free days, dysfunctional days and patients' general well-being rating and physicians' global assessment, two thirds of the patients improved significantly. The common side effects included weight gain, tremor, hair loss and nausea. Liver functions were unaffected by treatment. The possible mechanism of action of valproate in headache is discussed. Valproate appears to be a worthwhile addition to the prophylactic treatment of chronic recurrent headache. 
Normal P300 following extensive damage to the left medial temporal lobe. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during auditory and visual "oddball" tasks from a patient with a severe verbal memory deficit due to a low grade infiltrating glioma which involved the full extent of the left medial temporal lobe. In both sensory modalities, the patient's oddball-evoked P300s were symmetrical and of normal amplitude. These findings are difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that the hippocampus, or any other medial temporal structure, makes a substantial contribution to the scalp P300. 
Acid secretory changes and early relapse following duodenal ulcer healing with ranitidine or sucralfate. Controversial aspects relating to acid secretory changes following duodenal ulcer healing, and the effect of histamine-2 (H2)-receptor blockers on such changes are discussed. Recent studies comparing the effects of ranitidine or sucralfate on changes in the acid secretory responses in the healing of duodenal ulcers are described, and the relevance of these changes to early relapse considered. The duration of therapy and timing of acid-secretory studies and endoscopies are standardized in all studies, but the acid-secretory parameters vary. These comprised acid secretory responses to graded doses of an intravenous infusion of pentagastrin or histamine, sham-feeding responses, and basal and nocturnal acid secretion. In all studies, healing with sucralfate was associated with a significant decrease in the various parameters of acid secretion. In the ranitidine-healed groups, no appreciable decrease was noted and there was, indeed, a significant increase in nocturnal acid secretion. Routine endoscopies performed 4-6 weeks after documented ulcer healing showed a recurrence of 3 of the 32 (9%) sucralfate-healed and in 14 of the 35 (40%) ranitidine-healed ulcers. Increased acid secretory responsiveness following duodenal ulcer healing was strongly correlated with subsequent early relapse. 
Multicentric osteolysis: an infrequently recognized renal-rheumatologic syndrome. We describe the case of a young girl with Type III multicentric osteolysis, a rare syndrome characterized by osteolysis and renal insufficiency. Our report is intended to make physicians aware of this uncommon cause of renal and rheumatologic abnormalities. 
Management of low-grade cervical dysplasia during pregnancy. Fifty-five pregnant patients referred to my colposcopy service from 1985 to 1990 for biopsy-proven mild dysplasia were entered into a program of serial evaluations, including Pap test, colposcopy, and directed biopsy if indicated. The evaluations were done every 12 weeks during pregnancy and at 6 weeks postpartum to rule out new or occult invasive cervical cancer. By the time the postpartum biopsy was done, no such cancer had been detected. All 55 patients had mild dysplasia or less. I conclude that pregnant patients with biopsy-proven mild cervical dysplasia who have had adequate expert colposcopy and results of Pap test consistent with biopsy require only one antepartum colposcopy prior to postpartum reevaluation and treatment. Multiple interval cytologic and colposcopic studies with or without biopsy are unnecessary. The likelihood of invasive cervical cancer developing in these patients during pregnancy is negligible. 
Transcortical aphasia. Importance of the nonspeech dominant hemisphere in language repetition. While a relative preservation of repetition in acute transcortical aphasia (TA) has usually been associated with the functional integrity of the speech dominant (left) perisylvian area, recent amytal data (Bando et al., 1986) have suggested a fundamental role of the nondominant (right) hemisphere in language repetition. The neuroradiological correlates of repetition were studied in a consecutive series of 21 patients with acute TA. A similar frequency of either perisylvian or extraperisylvian pathology was found. In 2 patients with perisylvian pathology, the injection of amytal in the hemisphere contralateral to the lesion abolished repetition. Positron emission tomography (PET) in another patient revealed marked hypometabolism over the entire left cortical mantle ipsilateral to a basal ganglia lesion, suggesting that preserved repetition was carried out by right hemisphere structures. This was confirmed in a second patient with left extraperisylvian pathology, in whom a second lesion in the right hemisphere resulted in impaired repetition. These findings suggest that the spared contralateral hemisphere may subserve residual repetition in some transcortical aphasic patients with a lesion within or outside the speech-dominant perisylvian area. 
Retinal detachment adherent to posterior chamber IOL after Molteno implant surgery. A patient with refractory glaucoma 1 year after cataract extraction and trabeculectomy had Molteno implant surgery. Three days after surgery a kissing choroidal effusion and retinal detachment adherent to the posterior chamber IOL were detected. Repeated choroidal taps were unsuccessful. Removal of the Molteno implant, vitrectomy, and silicone oil injection were required to reattach the retina. 
Desmoplastic small cell tumors of the peritoneum coexpressing mesenchymal and epithelial markers. Desmoplastic small cell tumors arising diffusely within the abdomen and lacking an apparent organ of origin are rare. Most previously reported cases occurred in children, but young adult patients also have been described. Light microscopic examination shows the tumors to be composed of nests of small cells surrounded by an abundant desmoplastic stroma. Immunohistochemical findings reveal multidirectional differentiation with coexpression of cytokeratin, milk fat globule, neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, desmin, and vimentin. Electron microscopic examination demonstrates paranuclear condensations of intermediate filaments. The authors describe two patients who died of their disease, despite aggressive chemotherapy and surgical intervention. 
Detection of hepatitis B virus DNA sequences in liver in HBsAg seronegative patients with liver disease with and without anti-HBc antibodies. Excluding studies from Brechot and co-workers, little support has been found for a role of the hepatitis B virus in the pathogenesis of HBsAg seronegative patients with predominantly chronic liver diseases, including primary liver cancer. In this study liver DNA from 59 predominantly British patients (four cases with paired biopsies, 6-12 months apart) with different, mostly chronic, liver diseases was analysed by molecular hybridization. All were seronegative for HBsAg and serum hepatitis B virus DNA (dot blot hybridization) and their liver diseases were believed to be unrelated to hepatitis B virus infection. Hepatitis B virus DNA was detected in liver of 11 (18.6 per cent) patients; nine had episomal (3.2 Kb) DNA and eight had higher molecular weight bands suggesting integrated forms. Six patients were also seronegative for anti-HBc. Patients of UK and non-UK origin were equally represented. Hepatitis B virus DNA was detected in serum of six of nine patients tested using the polymerase chain reaction. The detection of hepatitis B virus DNA in liver and in serum by this assay in a significant proportion of patients with chronic liver disease, hitherto unsuspected of being hepatitis B virus-related, suggests a possible role for this virus in low- as well as high-prevalence countries. 
Impairment of natural killer functions by interleukin 6 increases lymphoblastoid cell tumorigenicity in athymic mice. Expression of the human IL-6 gene in EBV-immortalized normal human B lymphocytes following retroviral-mediated transduction rendered these cells highly tumorigenic in athymic mice. The tumors were lymphomas composed of the originally inoculated human lymphoblastoid cells. Co-injection of IL-6 expressing EBV-immortalized cells with IL-6 nonexpressing control cells resulted in increased tumorigenicity of the IL-6 nonexpressing cells. The lymphoblastoid cells expressing IL-6 were indistinguishable from parental cell lines in morphology and in a variety of cell surface characteristics, and did not exhibit growth advantage over parental cell lines in vitro, such that increased tumorigenicity is unlikely to depend upon a direct oncogenic effect of IL-6 on the B cells. Rather, at high concentrations, IL-6 markedly inhibits human lymphoblastoid cell killing by IL-2-activated murine splenocytes in vitro, suggesting that IL-6-related tumorigenicity might depend upon IL-6 inhibiting cytotoxicity at the tumor site. Thus, production of IL-6 by tumor cells that results in natural killer cell dysfunctions illustrates a novel mechanism of tumor cell escape from immune surveillance. 
Racial differences in HLA antigen frequency and hypertensive renal failure. Black patients with hypertension are six times more likely to develop end-stage renal disease than are their white counterparts. To determine if genetic differences associated with the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) system account for racial variation in hypertensive renal failure, we examined antigenic frequencies from a large renal transplant registry. Human Leukocyte Antigen phenotypes from cadaveric renal transplant recipients and donors in the South Eastern Organ Procurement Foundation database from 1982 to 1986 were analyzed. One thousand six hundred four renal transplant recipients with hypertensive renal failure as the cause of end stage renal disease (cases) were compared with 4506 race-matched cadaveric kidney donors (controls). Log-linear models were used to assess the relationship between hypertensive renal failure and prevalence of each HLA phenotype. Bonferroni adjustments of P values were used to correct for multiple comparisons. Comparison of HLA frequencies between blacks and whites with hypertensive renal failure demonstrated that blacks had an increased frequency of HLA-DR3 beyond that normally known to exist between black and white populations. Black cases compared to black controls had an 8.6% increase in HLA-DR3 frequency contrasted with a 1.6% decrease in the frequency of this antigen between white cases and white controls. This absolute 10.2% difference between the races was significant (P = .02) because the control black and white populations had nearly identical frequencies for this antigen. White cases compared to white controls had lower HLA-A1 and B8 frequencies (21.2% v 30.6%, P = .0005 and 13.7% v 22.3%, P = .001, respectively) and a greater HLA-B35 frequency (20.7% v 14.2%, P = .02). 
Later recurrence and longer survival among obese patients with renal cell carcinoma. To investigate the effect of obesity at diagnosis on prognosis of renal cell carcinoma, 360 renal cell carcinoma patients newly diagnosed at 29 hospitals in Oklahoma between January 1, 1981 and December 31, 1984 were followed through December 31, 1987. The Cox proportional-hazard model was used to estimate the hazard ratio, adjusting for other potentially prognostic factors. Both the disease-free interval and the overall survival were longer in patients who were obese (greater than or equal to 120% standard body mass index) at diagnosis. The adjusted-hazard ratio for disease recurrence between obese and nonobese patients was 0.43 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.19 to 0.98). The obese patients had an adjusted death hazard rate 0.68 times that of the nonobese patients (95% CI, 0.38 to 1.22). Although obesity was reported to increase the risk for renal cell carcinoma, prognosis was no worse and may be better among obese patients with the disease. 
Node negative breast cancer: the prognostic value of DNA ploidy for long-term survival. The DNA content of breast tumours from 170 patients who presented between 1978 and 1980 was measured by flow cytometry. The relationship between tumour ploidy and disease outcome was assessed and its association with other prognostic factors evaluated. Compared with those with diploid tumours, patients with aneuploid tumours had significantly earlier relapse and shorter survival (P less than 0.0001). Tumour ploidy was strongly related to grade (P less than 0.001), but there was no significant association between DNA ploidy and c-erb-B-2 expression, lymph node status or tumour size. In lymph node negative and c-erb-B-2 negative patients, aneuploid tumours were associated with a poorer prognosis (P less than 0.001) than diploid tumours. Multivariate analysis showed that tumour ploidy gave independent information on disease free and overall survival. Tumour ploidy may be used as an independent prognostic variable in patients with breast cancer and it may be helpful in defining patients within the node negative or c-erb-B-2 negative groups likely to have a poor outcome who might benefit from adjuvant treatment. 
Effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on the incidence of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. To determine whether angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition may reduce the incidence of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), we retrospectively identified 322 consecutive patients who underwent a successful procedure from June 1988 to December 1989. No patients developed chest pain, ST segment elevation, positive cardiac enzymes, or other evidence of abrupt vessel closure following the PTCA. All patients received intravenous heparin after PTCA and aspirin was begun on the day prior to PTCA. Patients were separated into two groups: those at hospital discharge incidentally treated for hypertension or heart failure with ACE inhibitors (n = 36), and those treated with a drug regimen which did not include ACE inhibitors (n = 286). The two groups were similar with respect to age (61 +/- 13.5 vs. 60 +/- 12.5, p = NS) and other demographic characteristics. Restenosis, defined as the presentation to a physician with symptoms of angina within 6 months of the PTCA and the finding on repeat catheterization of a significant restenosis at the site of the PTCA, occurred in 30% of the patients who were discharged on a drug regimen which did not include ACE inhibitors vs. 3% (p less than .05) in those treated with an ACE inhibitor. Thus, it appears that the use of ACE inhibitors may significantly reduce the incidence of restenosis after successful PTCA. 
Haemodynamic significance of incompetent calf perforating veins. A total of 149 consecutive unselected patients (221 limbs) who presented with signs and symptoms of chronic venous problems (varicose veins with or without ankle oedema, skin changes and leg ulcers) have been studied by clinical examination, ascending deep to superficial venography, Doppler ultrasound and ambulatory venous pressure measurements. Of the limbs, 180 (82 per cent) had varicose veins without obstruction in the deep veins or reflux in the popliteal or femoral veins while 41 (18 per cent) had deep venous disease. Of the 180 limbs with 'primary' varicose veins 110 (60 per cent) did not have incompetent calf perforating veins (group A) while 70 (40 per cent) did (group B). On the basis of the ambulatory venous pressure after calf muscle exercise and the refilling time, the incompetent calf perforating veins of limbs in group B belonged to three subgroups of different haemodynamic significance. In 20 limbs (30 per cent) they were found to be of no haemodynamic significance, in 25 (35 per cent) of moderate haemodynamic significance and in 25 (35 per cent) of major haemodynamic significance. The last were, on clinical examination, indistinguishable from limbs with deep venous disease although they had patent deep veins with competent popliteal valves. 
Neonatal short bowel syndrome. In this retrospective study the management of infants who had undergone resection of more than 50% of the small bowel as newborn infants between 1970 and 1988 was analyzed to define prognostic factors. Small bowel resections were performed for atresia (36 cases), volvulus (22 cases), gastroschisis (10 cases), necrotizing enterocolitis (11 cases), and other disorders (8 cases). Patients were classified into two groups depending on the length of residual small bowel: group 1 (n = 35) had less than 40 cm of small bowel and group 2 (n = 51) had 40 to 80 cm of residual small bowel. Patients in group 2 had significantly better survival rates than those in group 1 (92.0% vs 66.6%; p less than 0.001). The patients in group 1 who were born after 1980, when home parenteral nutrition was introduced, had better survival rates than those who were treated before 1980 (95.0% vs 65.0%; p less than 0.01). The time required for acquisition of intestinal adaptation depended on the intestinal length (average, 27.3 months for group 1 and 14 months for group 2; p less than 0.01) and on the presence or absence of the ileocecal valve. Parenteral or supportive enteral nutrition, or both, ensured normal growth in both groups. We conclude that more than 90% of infants now survive after extensive small bowel resection with parenteral nutrition and that the remaining small intestine will adapt with time. Home-based parenteral nutrition allowed children to be treated in the best psychosocial environment. 
Nonpharmacological therapy of hypertension. Commentary on diet and blood pressure. The use of dietary measures as sole therapy for hypertension has generated much enthusiasm and is supported by epidemiological and anecdotal data but is not substantiated by long-term controlled trials. Dietary measures should be effective in preventing the rise in blood pressure with age in civilized populations, but there are no firm data to substantiate this hypothesis. However, some data do suggest that weight loss and sodium restriction may benefit the drug-treated hypertensive patient. There are strong reasons to consider the use of nonpharmacological measures for the treatment of mild hypertension. Mild hypertension is ubiquitous. Some population subsets have a prevalence of mild hypertension approaching 40%, based on one blood pressure determination, for individuals older than 50 years. Even if the true prevalence is closer to 15%, this is a high proportion of the population in need of drug therapy. If a change in lifestyle could reduce the need for drug therapy by a respectable percentage, then an enormous number of individuals could be spared the necessity of taking antihypertensive medication. 
Inhibition of endogenous superoxide dismutase with diethyldithiocarbamate in acute island skin flaps. Oxygen free radicals have been implicated in postischemic tissue damage in a variety of experimental models including the island skin flap. Previous studies have demonstrated that supplementing animals with exogenous superoxide dismutase (SOD), a free radical scavenger, improves tissue survival in island flaps. No studies to our knowledge have attempted to inhibit endogenous SOD in a skin flap model. In this experiment 20 control rats demonstrated a 12.00% flap necrosis 7 days after a modified ventral island skin flap was raised. A second group of 20 rats were supplemented with exogenous SOD (50,000 U/kg 30 minutes preoperatively and 12 hours postoperatively) and demonstrated a statistically significant decreased flap necrosis of 5.28%. A third group of 20 rats received diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC, 0.5 gm/kg 12 hours preoperatively), an agent previously shown to inhibit SOD, and demonstrated a statistically significant increased flap necrosis of 19.77%. In a final group of 20 rats the effect of DDC was overcome by supplementation with exogenous SOD, obtaining a flap necrosis of 8.35%. Our results add further support to the importance of SOD and oxygen free radicals in postischemic tissue damage by demonstrating increased tissue necrosis with inhibition of endogenous SOD. This suggests that there is a baseline degree of SOD activity in ischemic areas working to preserve tissue. It appears that the copper-containing species of SOD found primarily in the cytoplasm plays a pivotal role in preservation of postischemic tissue. 
Acute and chronic symptoms of mononucleosis. BACKGROUND. The clinical symptoms and durations of illness of patients with infectious mononucleosis (IM) are variable and are poorly documented in the scientific literature. METHODS. Patients who presented for care at the Student Health Service of a Canadian university between September 1985 and May 1988 and had been diagnosed as having IM were surveyed. Health experience during the acute and convalescent phases of IM was compared with that of a group of patients matched for age, sex, date of diagnosis, and year of study, who had suffered acute upper respiratory tract infections (URI), other than Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced, during the same period. RESULTS. Students were sicker for longer after IM than after non-EBV-induced URI. During the acute phase of illness, the symptoms of fatigue (P = less than .000001), night sweats (P = .000001), and painful neck swelling (P = .00003) were seen significantly more often in the IM group. The severity and duration of these symptoms were also significantly worse in IM patients. Getting tired easily (P = .002), diurnal somnolence (P = .002), and depression (P = .002) were significantly more common postacute symptoms. Eleven percent of IM patients reported persistence of symptoms longer than 100 days, and in 6% of patients the symptoms had persisted after 1 year. Convalescent cases showed a trend toward reduced alcohol intake and, perhaps, reduced alcohol tolerance. CONCLUSIONS. IM involves excessive morbidity in a student community compared with URI that was other than EBV-induced, during both the acute and the postacute phases of infection. 
Analysis of septic morbidity following gunshot wounds to the colon: the missile is an adjuvant for abscess. Over a 7-year period, 151 patients with gunshot wounds to the colon surviving beyond 24 hours were managed. The bullet was retained in the body in 66% and exited in 34%. Thirty-four (23%) developed major septic complications (diffuse peritonitis, 21%; intraperitoneal abscesses 24%; and extraperitoneal abdominal abscesses, 56%). The septic complication rate was 26% in the bullet-present group compared with 16% in the remainder (p less than 0.15). The increased septic rate in those with bullets present was the result of abscesses developing around the retained missile. That group with missile abscesses had a lesser degree of injury as measured by the abdominal trauma index compared with the other patients with septic complications (p less than 0.001). Fifteen (79%) of the 19 patients with missile and missile track abscesses had them develop in the psoas muscle. These abscesses occur by fecal contamination of the muscle following inoculation by the bullet, which passes through the large bowel. Computed tomography-guided and operative drainage tend to fail if the foreign body is not removed. Computed tomography-guided or operative drainage should be successful in draining missile track abscesses when the bullet has exited the patient. 
Molecular characterization of a supratypic cross-reactive idiotype associated with IgM autoantibodies. Neoplastic B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphomas (SLL) frequently express surface Ig reactive with the mouse mAb, Lc1. Raised against a human monoclonal IgM with rheumatoid factor activity, Lc1 detects a major cross-reactive Id (CRI) present on the H chain of many monoclonal IgM autoantibodies. In contrast to other major autoantibody-CRI investigated to date, we note that the Lc1-CRI is expressed by subpopulation of cells in the germinal centers, as well as in the mantle zones, of secondary human B cell follicles. To examine the molecular basis for Lc1 expression, we used the polymerase chain reaction to isolate the functionally rearranged Ig VH genes of monoclonal Lc1-reactive B cell populations from six unrelated patients with CLL or SLL. Although the neoplastic B cells from most patients with CLL or SLL express the CD5 surface differentiation Ag, the lymphoma cells from one patient with SLL were CD5-negative. We find that the Lc1-reactive cells from each cell population have Ig rearrangements involving a VH gene of the VH4 subgroup. However, the VH4 genes rearranged in different Lc1-reactive tumor populations may originate from at least two disparate germ-line VH4 genes. Also, in contrast to the CD5-positive tumor populations, we find evidence for intraclonal diversity in the functionally rearranged VH4 genes of the CD5-negative SLL. Collectively, this study discerns a degeneracy in the VH4 genes that can encode the Lc1 CRI, indicating the term "supratypic cross-reactive idiotype" may best describe the specificity of the Lc1 mAb. Also, this study suggests that expression of CD5 may delineate categories of B cell SLL that differ in their relative rates of constitutive Ig V gene somatic mutation. 
Invasive aspergillus rhinosinusitis in patients with acute leukemia. Invasive aspergillus rhinosinusitis is a potentially lethal complication of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in patients with acute leukemia. The majority of cases are caused by Aspergillus flavus. The infection is difficult to diagnose early but should be suspected when a neutropenic patient develops persistent fever without a known source, symptoms of rhinitis or sinusitis, cutaneous findings over the nose or sinuses, symptoms and signs of orbital or cavernous sinus disease, or an ulcerating lesion of the hard palate or gingiva. Careful anterior rhinoscopy followed by computed tomography of the sinus helps establish the diagnosis, which should be confirmed by histologic study and culture of biopsied material. Early treatment with aggressive surgery, high-dose amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine, and possibly white blood cell transfusions may produce a cure if the patient's bone marrow recovers. Newer antifungal agents offer promise for prophylaxis and treatment of this infection. 
Hemodynamic monitoring: a technology assessment. Technology Subcommittee of the Working Group on Critical Care, Ontario Ministry of Health. OBJECTIVE: To review catheterization of the right side of the heart according to technical capability, diagnostic accuracy, range of possible uses, therapeutic impact, benefit to patient outcome and impact on health care workers. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE was searched for English-language articles published since 1962. Additional references were selected from the bibliographies of identified articles. STUDY SELECTION: Nonrandomized trials and retrospective reviews were included because of a paucity of randomized controlled trials. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: After a review of the data on hemodynamic monitoring by the subcommittee members, guidelines were developed through the use of the nominal group and Delphi consensus-gathering techniques. CONCLUSIONS: The use of catheterization of the right side of the heart for hemodynamic monitoring should be reserved for tertiary and secondary care hospitals, which are adequately staffed by physicians and nurses well versed in the use of such monitoring. Future research should be directed at determining whether the use of hemodynamic monitoring will improve outcomes among patients, especially those with myocardial infarction, septic shock or pulmonary edema. 
Cervical dystonia: clinical findings and associated movement disorders. We studied 300 patients, 61% women, with mean age 49.7 years and mean duration of dystonia 7.8 years, to determine the demographic and clinical characteristics of cervical dystonia (CD) and its relationships to other movement disorders. Torticollis was present in 82%, laterocollis in 42%, retrocollis in 29%, and anterocollis in 25%; however, the majority (66%) had a combination of these abnormal postures. Scoliosis was present in 39%, local pain reported by 68%, and 32% had evidence of secondary cervical radiculopathy. In addition to CD, 16% of patients had oral dystonia, 12% mandibular dystonia, 10% hand/arm dystonia, and 10% had blepharospasm. Tremor was noted in 71% of patients; head-neck tremor was present in 60%, and tremor in other body regions was present in 32%. A family history of a movement disorder was present in 44% of the CD patients. Tardive dystonia was the cause in 6%; 11% had posttraumatic dystonia. Anticholinergic drugs provided moderate improvement in 33% of patients, but local intramuscular botulinum toxin injections relieved CD, local pain, or both in over 90% of all treated patients. 
Na(+)-H+ exchanger and its role in essential hypertension and diabetes mellitus. The Na(+)-H+ exchanger is a ubiquitous transport system that is involved in the regulation of intracellular pH, cell growth and proliferation, cell volume regulation, and transepithelial absorption of Na+, Cl-, and HCO3-. Altered activity of the Na(+)-H+ exchanger has been implicated as a mechanism contributing to the development of high blood pressure in subgroups of patients with essential hypertension and in various animal models of hypertension. Many of these studies measured Na(+)-Li+ exchange rather than Na(+)-H+ exchange, hypothesizing that Na(+)-Li+ exchange represents a functional mode of the Na(+)-H+ exchanger. However, this is a controversial assumption. Several studies have also shown an association between erythrocyte Na(+)-Li(+)-exchange rate and predisposition to nephropathy in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The recent cDNA cloning of at least one isoform of the Na(+)-H+ exchanger will help clarify the cellular mechanisms of regulation of the exchanger and its possible role in pathophysiological states such as hypertension. 
Global T wave inversion. Because global T wave inversion has not been specifically characterized, 100 electrocardiograms (ECGs) with this pattern (frontal plane T vector -100 degrees to -170 degrees with precordial T inversion) were prospectively collected from approximately 30,000 consecutively interpreted ECGs and analyzed blindly. There was a striking female predominance (82 women vs. 18 men; p less than 0.0005) despite an essentially equal number of female and male hospital admissions. There was a single statistically significant ECG correlate: a more vertical QRS axis in women (+14.1 degrees +/- 45.3 degrees vs. -5.6 degrees +/- 31.3 degrees; p = 0.034). The T waves were basically symmetric (68%), the influence of this factor usually altering the characteristically asymmetric T wave inversions of right bundle branch block (4 of 5) and left ventricular hypertrophy (21 of 36). Asymmetry was mainly associated with digoxin therapy (21 of 32 patients taking digoxin; p less than or equal to 0.0005) and a corrected QT (QTc) interval (0.433 +/- 0.095) shorter than with symmetric T wave inversions (0.507 +/- 0.074; p less than or equal to 0.0005) though not reaching the degree of shortening expected for digitalization. Twenty-eight patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction and 23 for a central nervous system disorder accounted for the majority of patients with symmetric T wave inversion. Fifteen of 18 patients who had coronary angiography had some degree of coronary artery disease: 3 had angiographically normal coronary arteries. 
Enteropathogens associated with acute diarrheal disease in urban infants in Sao Paulo, Brazil. To determine the prevalence and epidemiology of enteropathogens in acute infantile diarrhea, 500 infants less than or equal to 12 months of age with diarrhea and 500 age-matched control subjects coming to a Sao Paulo emergency room were studied. Enteropathogens were identified in 55% of case infants and 10% of controls; enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) of classic EPEC serotypes producing EPEC adherence factor (EAF) (26% of case infants), rotavirus (14%), Salmonella species (8%), enterotoxigenic E. coli (7%), and Shigella species (5%) were associated with diarrhea. Isolation of EAF+ classic EPEC decreased with increasing age of cases and peaked in spring, whereas rotavirus was least common in early infancy and peaked in fall and winter. Bloody stool had a 36% positive predictive value for Shigella infection, EAF+ classic EPEC were highly resistant to antimicrobial drugs. Among poor Sao Paulo infants, EAF+ classic EPEC equaled or exceeded rotavirus throughout the year as a cause of diarrhea bringing children to medical attention. 
Gastritis due to spiral shaped bacteria other than Helicobacter pylori: clinical, histological, and ultrastructural findings. An intensive histological search for Helicobacter pylori in gastric biopsy specimens has led to the detection of other spiral shaped bacteria in the human gastric mucosa. The clinical and morphological findings of 39 cases (0.25% of all gastric biopsies performed in the observation period) are reported for 34 patients (87.2%) complaining of upper abdominal discomfort. Five patients (12.8%) had chronic gastritis and 34 (87.2%) chronic active gastritis. The organisms were seen by light microscopy deep in the gastric foveolae and intracellularly. The scanning and transmission electron microscopic findings show bacteria which invade and damage gastric mucosal cells. These organisms are similar to the spiral shaped bacteria found in the stomachs of cats and dogs and non-human primates. In eight patients organisms were not detected after four weeks of treatment with bismuth salts. The disappearance of the organisms coincided with resolution of the chronic active gastritis and the symptoms. 
J. Maxwell Chamberlain Memorial Paper. Role of staging in prognosis and management of thymoma. Eighty-five patients operated on for thymoma from 1972 to 1989 were evaluated, 32 with myasthenia gravis and 53 without. Masaoka staging revealed stage I disease in 45 (53%), stage II in 23 (27%), stage III in 14 (16%), and stage IVa in 3 (4%). There was no operative mortality. Actuarial survival at 10 years was 63.7% for all patients: 78.3% for those in stage I, 74.7% for those in stage II, and 20.8% for those in stage III. There was no recurrence in patients in stage I. Mediastinal recurrence developed in 4 patients in stage II considered to have noninvasive disease by the surgeon. It is recommended that all patients be followed up for a minimum of 10 years and that all patients in stages II and III receive postoperative radiotherapy. The presence of myasthenia gravis is no longer considered as an adverse factor in survival. 
Particle shedding and migration from silicone genitourinary prosthetic devices. Of 26 patients undergoing revision of genitourinary prostheses the surrounding reactive fibrous capsule was biopsied in 25 and the draining lymph nodes also were biopsied in 4. The prostheses included 16 inflatable and 14 flexible penile devices, and 10 artificial urinary sphincters. Tissue was examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. X-ray microanalysis was done on intracellular and extracellular foreign material from each specimen. Silicone was found in 18 of the 25 periprosthetic specimens and in all 4 lymph nodes. Foreign body granulomas were identified in 14 of these 29 specimens. Examination of new and explanted versions of each prosthesis by scanning electron microscopy revealed free particles of silicone or silicates on the surface of most devices. Pitting and microfissuring were seen on a few of the new devices and on nearly all of the used ones. Thus, genitourinary prostheses shed silicone particles that can be found in the fibrous capsule and draining lymph nodes. 
Hyperglycemia and neurological outcome in patients with head injury. To examine the relationship between serum glucose and the outcome of patients suffering from head injury, the authors retrospectively reviewed the clinical course of 169 patients admitted for treatment to Harborview Medical Center (a regional trauma center). All patients underwent craniotomy for evacuation of intracranial hematoma and/or placement of a subarachnoid bolt for intracranial pressure monitoring under general anesthesia. Patients with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 8 or less had significantly higher serum glucose levels than patients with GCS scores of 12 to 15 (mean +/- standard error of the mean 192 +/- 7 mg/dl vs. 130 +/- 8 mg/dl or 10.7 +/- 0.4 mmol/liter vs. 7.2 +/- 0.4 mmol/liter) (p less than 0.0001). Patients who subsequently remained in a vegetative state or died had significantly higher glucose levels both on admission and postoperatively than patients who had good outcome or moderate disability (217 +/- 12 mg/dl vs. 167 +/- 6 mg/dl or 12.1 +/- 0.7 mmol/liter vs. 9.3 +/- 0.3 mmol/liter on admission, and 240 +/- 16 mg/dl vs. 156 +/- 5 mg/dl or 13.3 +/- 0.9 mmol/liter vs. 8.9 +/- 0.3 mmol/liter postoperatively) (p less than 0.0001). Among the more severely injured patients (GCS score less than or equal to 8), a serum glucose level greater than 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/liter) postoperatively is associated with a significantly worse outcome (p less than 0.01). The authors conclude that severely head-injured patients frequently develop hyperglycemia and the elevated serum glucose level may aggravate ischemic insults and worsen the neurological outcome in such patients. 
Lobular carcinoma in situ of the breast: clinical, pathologic, and mammographic features. Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) was diagnosed in 165 surgical specimens (119 patients) at our institution between 1974 and 1987. LCIS was seen more often in younger women (mean age, 49 years) than other breast carcinomas were (mean age, 58 years). Sampling of a single breast revealed multifocal disease in 70% (96/138). When both breasts were sampled, bilateral foci were found in 50% (41/82). Of 165 breasts with foci of LCIS, 37% (61/165) had simultaneously occurring invasive cancers in the same breast. Direct mammographic-pathologic correlation of foci of LCIS was possible in 73 breasts (67 patients). Microcalcifications were an indication for biopsy in 49% (20/41) of breasts with a mammographic abnormality, but were a nonspecific finding often found in tissues adjacent to foci of LCIS. The mammogram was normal in 44% (32/73) of breasts with foci of LCIS. The mammograms of patients with LCIS and those from a group of age-matched control subjects were compared by using a modified form of Wolfe's criteria and the percentage of fibroglandular elements. LCIS was seldom found in an N1 breast (1% vs 29%) or in a breast with less than 25% of its parenchymal area occupied by fibroglandular density (3% vs 33%). Compared with the control group, breasts with LCIS had more than 50% fibroglandular density (85% vs 45%) and a much higher frequency of the DY pattern (56% vs 36%). More fibroglandular density was seen in the LCIS group at all ages. Postmenopausally, the frequencies of the DY pattern and fibroglandular density greater than 50% in LCIS patients were nearly double those in the control group. LCIS patients have disease of the entire breast parenchyma, characterized by multifocality and bilaterality of various forms of lobular disease. Their mammograms reveal a higher rate of the DY pattern and higher percentages of fibroglandular or parenchymal density than those of age-matched controls. In LCIS patients, persistence of the DY pattern, or large amounts of fibroglandular density postmenopausally supports the concept that mammographically dense breasts are a marker for increased cancer risk in women 50 years old and older. 
Selective 2-[18F]fluorodopa uptake for melanogenesis in murine metastatic melanomas. The relationship between 3,4-dihydroxy-2-[18F]fluoro-L-phenylalanine (2-[18F]FDOPA) uptake and melanogenesis was studied using mice bearing two B16 melanomas: B16-F1 has a higher melanin synthesis ability and a slower growing rate than the higher metastatic B16-F10. A significantly higher 2-[18F]FDOPA uptake by B16-F1 than by B16-F10 and a reverse relationship for the uptake of [14C] 2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose and [3H]thymidine were observed 1 hr postinjection. F1-to-F10 ratios of both the 2-[18F]FDOPA uptake and the acid-insoluble radioactivity increased to about 5 at 6 hr, which paralleled the melanin content. FM3A mammary carcinoma showed a 2-[18F]FDOPA uptake similar to the B16-F10 but without the acid-insoluble radioactivity. With D,L-DOPA loading, a 55% decreased uptake by FM3A 1 hr postinjection was significantly greater than the 20% reduction in both melanomas. O-Methylated 2-[18F]FDOPA was a predominant acid-soluble metabolite in all tumors. Whole-body autoradiography discriminated the two melanomas clearly. 2-[18F]FDOPA may be a promising tracer for the selective imaging of melanogenesis. 
Use of percutaneous nephrostomy in malignant ureteric obstruction. Seventeen patients with malignant disease underwent percutaneous nephrostomy to relieve renal failure secondary to ureteric obstruction. Renal function improved in 88%. The median survival time was 18 weeks and 58% left the primary hospital to return home or to a terminal care hospice. Minor complications occurred in 58%. The use of bilateral nephrostomy tubes conferred no greater benefit than a unilateral tube. Intervention in malignant ureteric obstruction may confer some benefit and should not necessarily be viewed with pessimism. 
Inhibition of burn pain by intravenous lignocaine infusion. Patients with burns often suffer severe pain, especially during dressing of wounds, but there are no established alternatives to potent opiate analgesics, with their various side-effects. Intravenous lignocaine infusion strikingly reduced self-assessed pain scores in 7 patients during the first 3 days after second-degree burns, without need for supplementary opiate analgesia. 
Acetylcholine receptor-reactive T and B cells in myasthenia gravis and controls. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is strongly associated with antibodies to acetylcholine receptor (AChR), whereas the extent of T cell involvement is not settled. The number of cells secreting interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in response to AChR during 48 h culture of blood mononuclear cells (PBL) may reflect AChR-reactive T cells. Using an immunospot assay, we detected such cells in 23 of 30 patients with MG at a mean number of 1 per 33.333 PBL. AChR-reactive T cells were also found in patients with other neurological diseases (OND) and in healthy subjects but at lower frequencies and numbers. The T cell response to purified protein derivative and to PHA, and also to two major myelin proteins (basic protein and proteolipid protein) did not differ between MG and the two control groups, underlining the specificity of an augmented T cell reactivity to AChR in MG. Evaluation of the B cell response by enumerating anti-AChR IgG antibody secreting cells revealed such cells in 27 of 28 patients with MG at a mean value of 1 per 14,085 PBL. Cells secreting anti-AChR antibodies of the IgA and IgM isotypes were also detected in MG, but less frequently, at lower numbers, and only in conjunction with IgG antibody secreting cells. Anti-AChR antibody secreting cells were also found among patient with OND and in healthy controls, but at lower frequencies and numbers. These data confirm that AChR is a major target for autoimmune response in MG. 
Effects of high-dose aprotinin on blood loss, platelet function, fibrinolysis, complement, and renal function after cardiopulmonary bypass. The use of aprotinin to reduce blood loss after cardiopulmonary bypass is under debate. Concern has been raised about the renal effects of aprotinin. We administered a mean aprotinin dose of 4.2 x 10(6) kallikrein-inhibiting units to 13 patients with coronary disease undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for 74 +/- 5 minutes (mean +/- standard error of the mean); 13 comparable patients having cardiopulmonary bypass served as control subjects, and all were studied postoperatively for 24 hours. Aprotinin reduced postoperative blood loss by 50% (p = 0.0082). Two of the 13 patients who received aprotinin needed one red cell unit each versus a total of 18 units in eight of 13 control patients (p = 0.0096). Blood pressure, hemoglobin value and serum protein concentration were higher after operation in the aprotinin group (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.01). Platelet counts did not differ, but plasma thromboxane was lower in aprotinin recipients (p less than 0.001). In control patients fibrinogen degradation products (D dimer) doubled, and alpha 2-antiplasmin activity was halved during and after cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 0.01 to p less than 0.001), whereas aprotinin patients showed no changes. The complement breakdown products C4a, C3a, and C3dg as well as C9 neoantigen increased from prebypass baseline in both groups (p less than 0.001); the increment of C3a and C3dg was greater in the aprotinin than in the control patients (p less than 0.001). Serum electrolytes, osmolality, and creatinine remained normal in both groups of patients. Creatinine clearance was normal or above normal and virtually identical in both groups. Osmolar clearance and fractional sodium excretion were higher in the aprotinin group than in the control group shortly after cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.01); renal function was unremarkable the next morning. No adverse clinical effects attributable to aprotinin were seen. In summary, aprotinin offers advantages for cardiopulmonary bypass. 
Resection of a granular cell tumor at the hepatic confluence. A precarious location for a benign tumor. Granular cell tumors are lesions that account for less than 10 per cent of benign biliary tumors and only 1 per cent occur in the biliary tract. Since the first description, 45 other cases have been described to which we add a case. In reviewing the literature, a striking predominance in black females is evident. The most frequent location of these tumors in the biliary tree appears to be the common bile duct (50%), followed by the cystic duct (37%), the hepatic ducts (15%), and the gallbladder (4%). Most patients have been treated with resection followed by restoration of biliary continuity using biliary enteric diversion. In the case presented, the tumor was located at the hepatic confluence with extension into the hepatic substance requiring segmental duct cholangiojejunostomy after resection. This resulted in fulminant sepsis and death despite adequate preoperative biliary decompression and the lack of signs or symptoms of infected bile. Alternative forms of management in the treatment of this benign condition at this location are discussed. 
Naevocytic naevi with vascular-like spaces. Fourteen cases of naevocytic naevi with anastomising lacunae suggestive of vascular spaces are reported. The cells lining these lacunae were consistent with naevus cells, being positive for vimentin and S100 protein and negative for factor VIII-related antigen and Ulex europaeus I. The cells were not surrounded by laminin or type IV collagen. We suggest the formation of these vascular-like spaces may be due to defective production or increased degradation of components of the basement membrane with a consequent lack of cohesion. 
Somatosensory evoked potentials in intracranial hypertension: analysis of the effects of hypoxia. The loss of somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP's) was investigated in a feline model of intracranial hypertension. Threshold values of cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) required for maintenance of SSEP's are defined using a mathematical model. The model describes loss of amplitude of SSEP's using the form of a dose-response curve. Amplitude of the SSEP's declined to 50% of control values at a CBF of 15 ml/100 gm/min and a CPP of 20 mm Hg in the normoxic animal; in the presence of mild hypoxia (8 to 9 kPa), a significant increase in these values to 18 ml/100 gm/min and 32 mm Hg, respectively, occurred. No reliable changes in latency or central conduction time were demonstrated. It is concluded that given adequate oxygenation, evoked electrical activity is lost at too low a level of CPP for this parameter to be useful in clinical monitoring. However, even mild hypoxia, when combined with intracranial hypertension, produces a major risk to neuronal integrity. 
The effect of ethanol on the uptake, binding, and desialylation of transferrin by rat liver endothelium: implications in the pathogenesis of alcohol-associated hepatic siderosis. Chronic alcoholism has been reported to be associated with a reduced carbohydrate content of transferrin (TF), particularly, its reduced sialylation state. Low sialylation state of TF now serves as an objective marker of chronic alcohol abuse. To investigate the pathophysiological significance of this finding in relation to hepatic siderosis, also commonly associated with chronic alcoholism, the authors have investigated the effect of ethanol on the uptake, binding, and desialylation of transferrin by isolated rat liver endothelium in vitro. In pulse-chase experiments, transferrin labeled with either 125I (protein-labeled) or 3H (sialic acid-labeled) was incubated with isolated, fractionated liver endothelium with and without ethanol, and the supernates were subjected to column chromatography using RCA120- agarose. Incubation of the endothelium with increasing concentrations of ethanol resulted in a progressive increase in the desialylation rate of transferrin which was maximal when 160 mM concentration of ethanol was used. These data indicate that ethanol significantly promotes the desialylation of transferrin by rat liver endothelium. The implications of these findings in the pathogenesis of hepatic siderosis of the alcoholic are discussed. 
Causes of blindness and visual handicap in the Central African Republic. The causes of bilateral blindness (best visual acuity less than 3/60) in 1371 people in the Central African Republic seen between 1985 and 1989 who attended eye clinics in 10 out of the 16 prefectures across the country are given. The main causes of bilateral blindness were cataract (51%), glaucoma (12.7%), and onchocerciasis (8.1%). In 710 patients with unilateral blindness the main causes were cataract (38%), glaucoma (10%), iritis (7.5%), and trauma (6.3%). Bilateral blindness in children was rarely seen. The causes of visual impairment (vision between 6/18 and 3/60) in 424 patients were cataract, including aphakia (38%), maculopathy (14%), and onchocerciasis (7%). 
Endothelial cell damage by Walker carcinosarcoma cells is dependent on vitronectin receptor-mediated tumor cell adhesion. The transport of cancer cells from blood vessels to extravascular tissue is a critical step in metastasis, where endothelial cells and the vascular basement membrane act as barriers to cell traffic. Because endothelial injury can facilitate the metastasis of intravascular cancer cells in vivo, the authors have studied in vitro the free-radical-mediated endothelial damage caused by the rat Walker 256 carcinosarcoma (W256) cell after stimulation with 10(-6) mol/l (molar) phorbol ester. Here the authors have examined the hypothesis that W256 cell-mediated endothelial injury is dependent on adhesion between the effector and target cells. Attachment of phorbol 12-myristate, 13-acetate (PMA)-stimulated W256 cells to endothelial monolayers was increased 1.8 +/- 0.1-fold and damage (3H-2-deoxyglucose release from labeled endothelium) 1.4 +/- 0.1-fold after 4-hour pretreatment of the endothelium with 10 ng/ml recombinant human interleukin-1 alpha (rIL-1 alpha). Under various assay conditions, the release of 3H-2-deoxyglucose correlated directly with tumor cell adhesion (r = 0.98, P less than 0.005). In the presence of a polyclonal anti-vitronectin receptor antiserum, adhesion of stimulated W256 cells to rIL-1 alpha-treated monolayers was inhibited by 39% +/- 2%, and 3H-2-deoxyglucose release was inhibited by 53% +/- 13%. Immunoblot analysis and immunofluorescence flow cytometry demonstrated that the endothelial cells but not the W256 cells expressed vitronectin receptor (VnR) on their cell surface. The surface expression of VnR by endothelial cells was increased 1.9 +/- 0.1-fold after 4 hours' incubation with rIL-1 alpha. The authors conclude that W256 cell-mediated endothelial damage is dependent on cell adhesion, which, in turn, is partly regulated by the expression of VnR on the endothelial cell surface. 
Prospective neuropathological validation of Hachinski's Ischaemic Score in dementias. The sensitivity and specificity of Hachinski's Ischaemic Score (IS) in the diagnosis of the vascular aetiology of dementia was studied in a series of 32 demented patients, dementia of the Alzheimer type (16), multi-infarct dementia (7), mixed dementia (6), Pick's disease (3), with neuropathological diagnosis as the point of reference. The IS distinguished between primary degenerative dementia and multi-infarct or mixed dementia. As single features of the IS "a positive history of stroke" and "a fluctuating course" showed differing prevalences in the latter two diagnostic categories. The IS labelled 21% of patients with primary degenerative dementia as having a vascular aetiology. The uncritical application of the IS to large samples in epidemiological studies may cause incorrect labelling of a significant proportion of patients with primary degenerative dementia as vascular dementia. These results are based on observations of long-term inpatients and depend on neuropathological criteria. While the definite diagnosis of DAT by threshold criteria concerning plaque and tangle counts is well established, neither clinical nor pathological evidence of stroke necessarily means that cerebrovascular disease has anything to do with a patient's dementia. 
Shunt failure caused by valve collapse. Shunt failure due to collapse of the Mini-Holter valve was observed 13 times in 11 out of 179 children with an implanted Mini-Holter ventriculo-peritoneal (VP) or ventriculo-atrial (VA) shunt during a 10 year period. Intussusception of the proximal or distal end of the valve thus caused a shunt failure rate of 6% of the children in this series. Two children experienced this complication twice. All collapsed valves were part of a VP shunt system. Because of this experience use of the mini valve was abandoned and an adult Holter valve was implanted in children over the age of one month. Breakdown of this particular valve has not occurred in 102 children and two hundred adults with the adult Holter shunt system. 
Adrenergic receptor responsiveness and congestive heart failure. Our knowledge and understanding of the structure, mechanism of action and regulation of receptor-adenylate cyclase systems have increased dramatically in the last few years. A family of receptors (including the beta-adrenergic receptors) and guanine nucleotide regulatory proteins (G proteins) have been purified and cloned. Structure-function studies are beginning to provide insight into how the various components of the transmembrane signaling apparatus interact to promote alterations in the activity of the effector systems. Much effort has been devoted to understanding how various pathophysiologic conditions, such as ischemia or congestive heart failure, and the therapeutic methods used to treat such conditions perturb or regulate receptor systems. It has become abundantly clear that such regulation does occur but is not restricted to simple alterations in receptor number, and may well involve covalent modification (phosphorylation) of receptors or alteration in the ability of receptors to interact with G proteins. In addition, regulation of the quantity or functionality of the various G proteins and the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase itself appear to occur. For example, recent evidence suggests that congestive heart failure in humans is associated with a decreased number of beta-adrenergic receptors as well as an increased quantity of the inhibitory G protein (Gi). These alterations may provide important insight into how to develop new therapeutic methods. Mechanisms generally responsible for transmembrane signaling, how the components are regulated by pathophysiologic conditions, and drugs used to treat disease states are discussed in detail. 
Human recombinant DNA-derived antihemophilic factor (factor VIII) in the treatment of hemophilia A. recombinant Factor VIII Study Group BACKGROUND. Current treatment of hemophilia A, a hereditary disorder affecting approximately 1 in 10,000 males, relies on plasma-derived factor VIII concentrates. We tested the safety and efficacy of a recombinant factor VIII preparation for the treatment of this disorder. METHODS. We conducted the investigation in three stages: comparing the pharmacokinetics of plasma-derived and recombinant factor VIII, assessing the efficacy of recombinant factor VIII for home therapy, and assessing its efficacy for major surgical procedures and hemorrhage. A total of 107 subjects with hemophilia, 20 of whom had not been treated previously, enrolled in the investigation. RESULTS. The in vivo recovery and elimination half-lives of recombinant factor VIII equaled or exceeded those of plasma-derived factor VIII. Seventy-six subjects participated in a home-treatment program, using recombinant factor VIII for 69 to 807 days (median, 618); home diaries of 56 subjects treated for 5 months were analyzed. Of 540 bleeding episodes, 399 (73.9 percent) required only one treatment with recombinant factor VIII. The projected annual consumption of recombinant factor VIII was similar to that of plasma-derived factor VIII concentrate. Twenty-six subjects received recombinant factor VIII for 22 surgical procedures and 10 serious hemorrhages; hemostasis was excellent in all cases. De novo formation of inhibitors occurred in only 1 of 85 previously treated subjects. Inhibitor antibodies also developed in 6 of 21 children, 20 of whom had not previously been treated; 5 had low levels (less than or equal to 7.5 Bethesda units) despite continued treatment with recombinant factor VIII. There was no evidence of new formation of antibody to foreign proteins, and recombinant factor VIII was well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS. Recombinant factor VIII has biologic activity comparable to that of plasma factor VIII and is safe and efficacious for the treatment of hemophilia A. 
The time course and magnitude of spontaneous recovery of parkinsonism produced by intracarotid administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine to monkeys. We studied rhesus monkeys with hemiparkinsonism or bilateral parkinsonism produced by unilateral or bilateral intracarotid administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Using a standardized clinical rating scale, 4 hemiparkinsonian monkeys showed a 13 to 56% (mean, 36%) spontaneous improvement during an observation period of up to 25 weeks. Generally, recovery leveled off after 14 weeks. Four bilaterally parkinsonian monkeys showed a 5 to 42% (mean, 22%) improvement over a period of up to 30 weeks. Our findings emphasize that spontaneous recovery is a potentially confounding characteristic of this monkey model when used for assessing novel antiparkinsonian therapies. 
The value of MCA, CA 15-3, CEA and CA-125 for discrimination between metastatic breast cancer and adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. MCA, CA 15-3, CEA and CA 125 were determined in the serum of 49 patients with metastatic breast cancer and 38 patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. By using the 99th percentile of the normal value distribution as the cut-off point, the positive predictive value (PV+) was found to be 85% (95% CI 76-94) for MCA, and 71% (95% CI 61-81) for CA 15-3. When receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed, the PV+ for CA 15-3 was increased to 82% (95% CI 72-92), using 60 U ml-1 as the cut-off point. With the exception of two patients who had a slightly elevated MCA, MCA and CA 15-3 identified the same patients with breast cancer. By combining a positive MCA or CA 15-3 with a negative CEA and CA 125, further improvement of the PV+ could be achieved; 100% (95% CI 91-100). We conclude that MCA and CA 15-3 may play a useful role in discrimination between patients with metastatic breast cancer and those with adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. 
A comparison of the caffeine halothane muscle contracture test with the molecular genetic diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is currently diagnosed by the caffeine-halothane contracture (CHC) test. In a previous study, this test was used to establish linkage between the human gene for MH susceptibility and the ryanodine receptor (RYR) gene. The current study extends the genetic linkage analysis to a large French-Canadian kindred. In this family, genetic linkage between RYR and MH genes was not demonstrable using the currently recommended limits of normal for the CHC test in the identification of MH-susceptible individuals. With CHC test threshold limits below those currently recommended, however, complete linkage between the RYR and MH genes was seen. Comparisons of CHC test results with genetic linkage studies will increase the diagnostic accuracy of both tests as well as generate new insights into the biology of MH. 
Risk factors and the natural history of coronary heart disease in blacks. Contrary to early impressions of blacks' relative immunity to CHD, it is now clear that African Americans experience greater mortality from CHD than whites. The natural history of CHD differs between blacks and whites in three important respects: First, greater prevalence of established risk factors among blacks suggests that they may be at greater risk for heart disease than their white counterparts. Second, health care seeking differences are evident between blacks and whites, leading to lower rates of identification of early disease and slower seeking of services for acute events. However, risk factor differences and health care seeking behaviors do not appear to account for all of the differences in the natural history of heart disease between the ethnic groups, such as survival rate differences during treatment. Economic factors appear to account for only a portion of these differences in risk factors and health care seeking. Beyond differences in risk factors and health care seeking, other, as yet undetermined, factors seem to be involved. These unknown influences could include physiologic, behavioral, and/or psychologic differences. 
Total hip replacement for juvenile chronic arthritis. We review the results of 96 primary total hip replacements in 54 patients with juvenile chronic arthritis at five years or longer after surgery. The mean age at operation was 16.7 years (range 11.25 to 26.6); the follow-up period averaged 11.5 years. The clinical results in terms of pain, range of movement, mobility and function are presented. A revision procedure was required in 24 hips (25%) in 18 patients at an average of 9.5 years after the primary operation. A further 17 hips had radiographic signs of loosening. The factors thought to contribute to this relatively high failure rate in patients with juvenile chronic arthritis are discussed. 
Cough-variant asthma in children and adults: case reports and review. Two cases of cough-variant asthma are presented, one in an adult and one in a child. We discuss the diagnosis, treatment, and course of this common, yet often unrecognized entity. The keys to diagnosis are a typical history, clinical suspicion, and subsequent response to bronchodilator therapy. Treatment of cough-variant asthma is no different from that of classic asthma. 
Intentional and unintentional ureteral surgical treatment in gynecologic procedures. During a period of slightly over nine years, 4,195 extensive gynecologic procedures were performed and 40 patients required ureteral operations, with the ureteral injury unintentional in 16 patients. Extensive complications occurred in seven of 40 patients; in two of three patients in whom the injury was recognized postoperatively, nephrectomy was required. Roentgenographic imaging of the genitourinary tract prior to operation did not prevent injury nor did attempts at identification of the ureter. The majority of ureteral repairs were accomplished by ureteroneocystotomy. In selected patients, placement of percutaneous or indwelling ureteral stent prevented extensive surgical intervention. 
Localization and in vitro actions of atrial natriuretic peptide in the cat carotid body. Previous studies of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) have indicated that its release from the heart and from discrete areas of the central nervous system evokes coordinated physiological and behavioral adjustments that mitigate the adverse hypertensive effects of volume overload and/or acute increases in sodium intake. Because the reflex activity initiated by arterial chemoreceptors of the carotid body directly contributes to the integrated regulation of systemic blood pressure, we have investigated the possibility that ANP has a significant role in the chemosensory process as well. Our immunocytochemical studies show that ANP-like immunoreactivity is present in the preneural chemosensitive type I cells in the cat carotid body. Furthermore we found that the biologically active ANP fragment atriopeptin III is a potent inhibitor of carotid sinus nerve activity evoked by hypoxia. Our findings suggest that circulating and/or endogenous ANP may modulate carotid body function as part of a coordinated response to changes in systemic volume and solute balance. 
An apparent cluster of congenital hypopituitarism in central Massachusetts: magnetic resonance imaging and hormonal studies. Between 1980 and 1989, five infants (four males and one female) with congenital hypopituitarism were born within a relatively sparsely populated area of central Massachusetts, an incidence 25-fold greater than expected. In all infants the pituitary stalk was undetectable on magnetic resonance imaging, and a bright spot on T-1 weighted imaging, probably representing posterior pituitary tissue, was found ectopically located inferior to the median eminence. The height of the anterior pituitary remnant on magnetic resonance imaging varied from undetectable to 4 mm, and similarly, on hormonal testing a spectrum of deficiencies of GH, TSH, ACTH, and gonadotropin was observed. The magnitude of the hypopituitarism was less in the three patients whose anterior pituitary remnant was greater than 2 mm, and in them, TRH testing resulted in exaggerated TSH and PRL responses, suggestive of hypothalamic disease. In contrast, in the other two patients in whom the anterior pituitary remnant was less than 2 mm in height, hypopituitarism was more severe, and TRH administration resulted in little if any TSH or PRL response, characteristic of pituitary disease. The size of the anterior pituitary remnant correlated significantly with that of the ectopic posterior pituitary bright spot (P less than 0.005). We conclude that patients with congenital hypopituitarism may exhibit a spectrum of hormonal responses, varying from findings typical of hypothalamic to those characteristic of primary pituitary disease. The pattern of hormonal responsiveness is dependent on the quantity of residual anterior pituitary tissue and probably results from abnormal transport of the hypothalamic hypophyseal releasing hormones rather than to any putative hypothalamic abnormality. The significant correlation between the size and function of the anterior pituitary gland and the size of the ectopic posterior pituitary remnant suggests that the fetal pituitary gland may secrete a factor necessary for the growth and descent of the neuroepithelium to form the infundibulum and posterior pituitary gland. 
Dyslipidemic effects of cigarette smoking on beta-blocker-induced serum lipid changes in systemic hypertension. To assess the effects of beta blockers on lipids and apolipoproteins in cigarette smokers and nonsmokers, 330 patients with systemic hypertension received 1 month of placebo and 6 months of beta-blocker monotherapy. Serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and apolipoproteins A1 and B were measured. Total cholesterol increased with propranolol (smokers vs nonsmokers, 8 vs 2%); increased for smokers and decreased for nonsmokers with atenolol (8 vs -3%), metoprolol (6 vs -1%) and pindolol (7 vs -6%); and decreased for both groups with celiprolol (-3 vs -10%). HDL cholesterol decreased with propranolol (smokers vs nonsmokers, -8 vs -18%), atenolol (-7 vs -2%) and metoprolol (-12 vs -1%); increased for smokers and decreased for nonsmokers with pindolol (11 vs -2%); and increased for both groups with celiprolol (5 vs 6%). Similar trends were observed with LDL cholesterol and the total/HDL cholesterol ratio. It is concluded that early noncardioselective beta blockers such as propranolol have significant dyslipidemic effects in both smokers and nonsmokers. Cardioselective drugs such as atenolol and metoprolol, or drugs with partial agonist activity such as pindolol, have variable effects. Celiprolol, a new, highly cardioselective beta 1 blocker with partial beta 2 agonist activity and vasodilatory properties, has favorable effects on lipids and minimizes the dyslipidemic effects associated with smoking. 
A combined approach for purging multidrug-resistant leukemic cell lines in bone marrow using a monoclonal antibody and chemotherapy. Selective removal of malignant cells (purging) from bone marrow (BM) is a concern in autologous BM transplantation (ABMT). Use of vincristine, etoposide, or doxorubicin for purging could be rendered ineffective by the presence of multidrug-resistant (MDR) tumor cells. To circumvent this particular problem, we investigated whether 17F9, a monoclonal IgG2b antibody directed against the cell surface product of the MDR gene, P-glycoprotein, is effective in selective removal of MDR cells from BM when used with rabbit complement (C'). Using two different cell lines we have demonstrated that 17F9 + C' selectively lyses MDR-positive cells. Three rounds of antibody + C' resulted in 96.4% +/- 3.6% kill of K562/DOX and 100% +/- 0% of CEM/VLB cells. Mixtures of malignant cells and normal BM resulted in 99.85% removal of K562/DOX and 99.91% removal of CEM/VLB clonogenic cells. This treatment did not affect normal committed precursors compared with C' alone. The addition of the cytotoxic agent etoposide (VP-16) following antibody purging results in a 4.6 log reduction of malignant cells. Furthermore, this antibody was effective when used against patients' leukemic blasts. These results suggest the use of 17F9 + C' is effective and selective for removal of MDR cells from BM before ABMT and the addition of VP-16 enhances the purging efficacy. 
Mortality among petrochemical science and engineering employees. This is a study of a dynamic cohort of 13 250 commercial research and development personnel for whom information on occupational and educational background and smoking was available. Their age-, sex-, race-, and period-adjusted death rates were compared with New Jersey rates and with an internal comparison population. The overall results were favorable. The study groups had significantly fewer deaths from most major disease categories compared with other New Jersey residents. Among white male scientists and engineers, age-adjusted overall mortality and ischemic heart disease mortality were comparable to white male managers and support staff studied, whereas mortality from leukemia and lymphatic cancer was significantly elevated. Mechanics, however, had a significantly lower leukemia and lymphatic cancer mortality rate than did the comparison group. In a Poisson regression model in which white males and females from the study population were used, and for which the effects of age, smoking, college education category, period of hire, and years employed were controlled, scientists, engineers, and research technicians had elevated (nonsignificantly) mortality rates for leukemia and lymphatic cancer compared with managers and support staff. Smoking was an independent risk factor for leukemia and lymphatic cancer. Further work is needed to assess if specific environmental factors, such as benzene, other aromatics, radiation, medical treatment, and smoking habits, might have contributed to the above findings. 
Nontraumatic surgical emergencies in children. Clinical conditions that require operative intervention are frequent causes of emergency department visits. Common causes such as pyloric stenosis, intussusception, inguinal hernias, torsion of the testicle, and ingested foreign bodies are discussed, and aids in diagnosis and early intervention are addressed. Conditions that mimic surgical problems also are mentioned. 
Post-myocardial infarction mortality in patients with ventricular premature depolarizations. Canadian Amiodarone Myocardial Infarction Arrhythmia Trial Pilot Study BACKGROUND. Among survivors of acute myocardial infarction, frequent and repetitive ventricular premature depolarizations (VPDs) detected on ambulatory monitoring contribute independently to the risk of all-cause mortality and sudden death. Apart from the beta-blockers, no antiarrhythmic drug has been reliably demonstrated to reduce mortality among patients with VPDs. A pilot study was undertaken to gather data to aid in the design of a multicenter trial of amiodarone for the reduction of mortality from cardiac arrhythmias in such patients. METHODS AND RESULTS. Seventy-seven patients with acute myocardial infarction within the previous 6-30 days and 10 or more VPDs/hr or one or more runs of ventricular tachycardia on 24-hour electrocardiographic recording were randomized in a double-blind fashion in a 2:1 amiodarone-to-placebo ratio. The loading dose was 10 mg/kg/day for 3 weeks. The maintenance dose was 300-400 mg/day with reductions at 4-month intervals in response to VPD suppression, excessive plasma levels, or toxicity. VPD suppression at 1 week and 2 weeks was 63% and 85%, respectively, on amiodarone and 17% and 27%, respectively, on placebo. Apart from thyroid-stimulating hormone elevation and skin reactions, no side effects occurred more frequently with amiodarone. The study drug was stopped for side effects or noncompliance in 35% of amiodarone patients and 34% of placebo patients. Patients were followed for a maximum of 2 years (mean, 20 months). Arrhythmic death or resuscitated ventricular fibrillation occurred in two of 48 amiodarone patients (6%) and four of 29 placebo patients (14%), whereas the rates of all-cause mortality were five of 48 (10%) and six of 29 (21%), respectively. CONCLUSIONS. Amiodarone, in moderate loading and maintenance dosages with adjustments in response to plasma levels, VPD suppression, and side effects, results in effective VPD suppression and acceptable levels of toxicity. 
Prostate-type gland in the epididymis. We confirmed the presence of a prostate-type gland in the epididymis of a 30-year-old white man by immunohistochemical analysis using prostate specific antigen and prostate specific acid phosphatase. We suggest possible histogenetic mechanisms for such previously undescribed morphological heterogeneity within this wolffian duct derivative. 
Proliferation index in various stages of breast cancer determined by Ki-67 immunostaining. To investigate factors involved in progression of breast cancer, we estimated the growth fraction of malignant cell populations in various stages of mammary cancer growth. Frozen sections were immunostained with the Ki-67 monoclonal antibody and the proliferation index determined using static image analysis. Pure intraductal carcinoma, intraductal carcinoma coexisting with invasive disease, and metastatic sites coexisting with primary tumors were studied. The proliferation index of pure intraductal carcinomas (mean 4.5%, median 1.8%) was not significantly different from invasive mammary cancers (mean 5.1%, median 2.2%). The proliferation index determined for the in situ component of primary cancers (mean 3.8%, median 1.5%) was not significantly different from values obtained from the invasive component of growth (mean 4.2%, median 2.1%). Variability between in situ and invasive components for individual cases was minimal in tumors whose proliferation index was less than 3.0%; for tumors with higher proliferation indices, the differences were greater. However, there was no trend toward a decrease or increase in growth fraction for the two components of primary tumor growth. The mean proliferative index for primary tumors (mean 4.9%, median 4.0%) was not significantly different from the mean proliferative score from a matched group of metastatic sites in the same patients (mean 5.7%, median 5.5%). Comparison of individual cases uncovered differences in some tumors; again no consistent trends in either direction were noted. An increase (or decrease) in growth activity does not accompany the transition from intraductal (in situ) disease to invasive mammary cancer, nor does a change in growth fraction necessarily accompany progression of mammary cancer from the primary to regional metastatic site. 
Thymosin treatment of chronic hepatitis B: a placebo-controlled pilot trial Chronic hepatitis B is a severe and frequently progressive disease. We assessed the safety and efficacy of thymosin fraction 5 and thymosin-alpha 1 in a prospective, placebo-controlled trial in 12 patients with chronic hepatitis B. All patients had histological and biochemical evidence of active liver disease for at least 6 mo before treatment and were positive for serum hepatitis B virus DNA and HBsAg. Seven patients received thymosin fraction 5 or thymosin-alpha 1 and five patients received placebo twice weekly for 6 mo. By the conclusion of the study (1 yr), serum aminotransferase levels had improved significantly in thymosin-treated patients, but not in the placebo group. Six (86%) of the thymosin treated patients and one (20%) patient given placebo cleared hepatitis B virus DNA from serum (p less than 0.04, Fisher's exact test). After treatment, replicative forms of hepatitis B virus DNA were present in the liver specimens of four of five placebo-treated patients but in only one of seven thymosin-treated patients (p less than 0.04, Fisher's exact test). Response to thymosin therapy was associated with significant improvements in peripheral blood lymphocyte and CD3 and CD4 counts and in in vitro production of interferon-gamma over initial values. No significant side effects were observed in patients given thymosin or in placebo-treated patients. Clinical, biochemical and serological improvement in patients responding to thymosin were sustained during 26 +/- 3 mo of follow-up. The results of this pilot trial suggest that thymosin therapy promotes disease remission and cessation of hepatitis B virus replication in patients with chronic viral infection. 
Instability of the cervical spine after decompression in patients who have Arnold-Chiari malformation. Stability of the cervical spine was studied in two groups of children who had myelomeningocele. Group I consisted of twenty children who had an Arnold-Chiari Type-II malformation in whom a suboccipital craniectomy (partial occipital craniectomy through the suboccipital route) and cervical laminectomy was done to decompress the brain stem. The average duration of follow-up in this group (excluding one patient) was 4.7 years (range, 2.3 to 10.4 years) after the operation. Group II consisted of twenty children who had myelomeningocele but had not had an operation for decompression. Lateral radiographs of the cervical spine in flexion and extension showed no instability between the occiput and atlas or between the atlas and axis in either group. In contrast, translation between the second and third cervical vertebrae averaged four millimeters in Group I and one millimeter in Group II (p less than 0.01), and angulation between the third and fourth cervical vertebrae averaged 17 degrees in Group I and 6 degrees in Group II (p less than 0.01). Nineteen of the twenty patients in whom a suboccipital craniectomy and cervical laminectomy (Group I) had been done had instability of the cervical spine. 
Abnormal tubular handling of sodium and water induced by atrial natriuretic peptide in essential hypertension. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) was given as an intravenous bolus injection (2.0 micrograms kg-1) to 12 essential hypertensive patients (EH) and 13 normotensive control subjects (C) in order to study the effect of ANP on renal glomerular and tubular function using the lithium clearance technique. Urinary sodium excretion (EH, + 370% vs. C, + 120%; P less than 0.001) and urine volume (EH, + 137% vs. C, + 62%; P less than 0.01) increased significantly more in EH than in controls after ANP injection. Glomerular filtration rate, renal plasma flow, and plasma concentrations of angiotensin II, aldosterone and arginine vasopressin remained almost unchanged after ANP injection, whereas the filtration fraction increased to the same extent in both groups. Both proximal (EH, - 15% vs. C, - 5%; P less than 0.01) and distal fractional reabsorption (EH, - 12% vs. C, - 5%; P less than 0.01) of sodium decreased more markedly after ANP in EH than in controls. The increase in plasma cGMP and urinary excretion of cGMP was the same in the two groups. Mean blood pressure decreased and heart rate increased to the same extent in both groups. It is concluded that the increase in urinary sodium excretion and urine volume induced by ANP bolus injection is exaggerated in EH due to a more pronounced reduction in the reabsorption of sodium and water in both the proximal and the distal tubule. 
Clinical characteristics of acromegalic patients whose pituitary tumors contain mutant Gs protein. Activating mutations in the gene for the alpha-chain of Gs, the stimulatory regulator of adenylyl cyclase, have been identified in human GH-secreting pituitary tumors. Using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, we screened 25 GH-secreting tumors for the presence of the activating mutations. We also reviewed the clinical charts of the patients from whom the tumors were removed. Of 25 tumors, 10 (40%) contained activating mutations. Patients in the mutation-positive group came to surgery with smaller tumors and had lower GH levels. The activating mutations identify a subgroup of GH-secreting pituitary tumors that probably arise from a shared oncogenic mechanism. 
A comparison of the clinical characteristics of first and second primary head and neck cancers. A population-based study. The clinical characteristics of 183 patients with second primary neoplasms in the head and neck region were compared with those of 20,598 patients with one primary tumor in the same region registered during the period 1973 to 1984 in the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End-Results Program. Second primary head and neck tumors were more likely to be diagnosed in a localized stage (47%) than if diagnosed as a single primary tumor (43%), but this difference was not significant. The tumor grade distribution was comparable in both groups. Using Cox proportional hazards modeling with age, sex, race, and stage as covariates, the median survival of patients with first and second head and neck cancer was identical (50 months). The survival of patients with localized second head and neck cancer was shorter than that of patients with single localized tumors (55 versus 102 months, P less than 0.026). Survival for regional tumors was similar (18 versus 21 months, not significant). The 84 second head and neck cancers in which the first head and neck cancer received radiation therapy (RT) had a median survival of 20 months; the 98 cases without prior RT had a median survival of 35 months. The high incidence of localized second cancers was probably due to the more intense surveillance. The worse survival in this group may be a result of prior RT or biologic characteristics of the tumor. 
Chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia associated with T cell receptor delta gene rearrangement. Morphological, immunophenotypic, and genetic analyses were carried out on peripheral blood, bone marrow, and pharyngeal biopsy material from a patient with chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML). Morphological analysis of bone marrow was diagnostic of CMML; immunophenotypic analysis of peripheral blood and bone marrow were negative for B and T cell antigens, and immunochemistry performed on the pharyngeal extramedullary infiltrate showed the presence of large monocytoid cells which stained positively for muramidase. Genotypic analysis, however, showed clonal rearrangement of the T cell receptor (TCR) delta chain gene, a marker of T cell or, less commonly, B cell lymphoid neoplasms. Other TCR genes, beta and gamma, were germline in all tissues examined. TCR delta is rearranged in precursor B cell and most T lymphoid neoplasms. A small proportion of cases (10%) of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) also show rearrangement of the TCR delta gene. To date TCR delta rearrangement has not been described in CMML. The aberrant TCR delta rearrangement shown in this patient with CMML provides further evidence of the clonal nature of this disorder. 
Skeletal muscle metabolism and work capacity: a 31P-NMR study of Andean natives and lowlanders. Two metabolic features of altitude-adapted humans are the maximal O2 consumption (VO2max) paradox (higher work rates following acclimatization without increases in VO2max) and the lactate paradox (progressive reductions in muscle and blood lactate with exercise at increasing altitude). To assess underlying mechanisms, we studied six Andean Quechua Indians in La Raya, Peru (4,200 m) and at low altitude (less than 700 m) immediately upon arrival in Canada. The experimental strategy compared whole-body performance tests and single (calf) muscle work capacities in the Andeans with those in groups of sedentary, power-trained, and endurance-trained lowlanders. We used 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to monitor noninvasively changes in concentrations of phosphocreatine [( PCr]), [Pi], [ATP], [PCr]/[PCr] + creatine ([Cr]), [Pi]/[PCr] + [Cr], and pH in the gastrocnemius muscle of subjects exercising to fatigue. Our results indicate that the Andeans 1) are phenotypically unique with respect to measures of anaerobic and aerobic work capacity, 2) despite significantly lower anaerobic capacities, are capable of calf muscle work rates equal to those of highly trained power- and endurance-trained athletes, and 3) compared with endurance-trained athletes with significantly higher VO2max values and power-trained athletes with similar VO2max values, display, respectively, similar and reduced perturbation of all parameters related to the phosphorylation potential and to measurements of [Pi], [PCr], [ATP], and muscle pH derivable from nuclear magnetic resonance. Because the lactate paradox may be explained on the basis of tighter ATP demand-supplying coupling, we postulate that a similar mechanism may explain 1) the high calf muscle work capacities in the Andeans relative to measures of whole-body work capacity, 2) the VO2max paradox, and 3) anecdotal reports of exceptional work capacities in indigenous altitude natives. 
Mitogenic response of T-lymphocytes to exercise training and stress. The impact of exercise training and stress on the immune response was examined by measuring the mitogenic response of spleen lymphocytes to the T-cell mitogen concanavalin A (Con-A). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: sedentary controls (n = 11), handled controls (n = 12), treadmill runners (n = 10), and voluntary runners (n = 11) housed in running wheels. The treadmill group ran at 22 m/min (0.8 mph) for 45 min, 5 days/wk for 8 wk. After the training period, spleen lymphocytes isolated from each rat were incubated with Con-A for 54 h, pulsed with radiolabeled thymidine for 18 h, and counted for tritium activity. Counts per minute per group (means +/- SE) were as follows: sedentary, 6,839 +/- 1,461; handled, 8,959 +/- 1,576; voluntary runners, 13,126 +/- 2,069; and treadmill runners, 18,950 +/- 5,975. One-way analysis of variance and Tukey's highly significant difference test found the counts per minute of the treadmill runners to be significantly different from the counts per minute of the sedentary animals. These results indicate that the responsiveness of spleen lymphocytes to Con-A increases as the level of stress and exercise increases. 
Autonomic nervous dysfunction in essential hypertension. Borderline hypertension, a condition in which the blood pressure oscillates between normal and high values, is a predictor of future more severe hypertension. Pathophysiologically, borderline hypertension is different from established hypertension. A large proportion of such patients have elevated cardiac output and a normal vascular resistance. In established hypertension, the output is normal and resistance is elevated. The elevation of cardiac output in borderline hypertension is neurogenic; it can be abolished by an autonomic blockade of the heart. In addition to an increased cardiac sympathetic drive, increased sympathetic tone to the kidney, arterioles, and veins has also been found. In parallel with the hypersympathetic state, patients with borderline hypertension also show decreased parasympathetic tone. The enhanced sympathetic tone leads to a decreased cardiac responsiveness, and eventually, the cardiac output returns to the normal range. High blood pressure causes vascular hypertrophy, and hypertrophic vessels are hyperresponsive to vasoconstriction. These secondary changes in the responsiveness of the heart and blood vessels are the basis of transition from a high cardiac output to high-resistance hypertension. These hemodynamic changes are associated with a downregulation of the sympathetic tone. A picture of an apparently nonneurogenic high-resistance hypertension emerges. Nevertheless, when assessed in regard to the enhanced pressor responsiveness, the sympathetic drive in such patients is still excessive. Despite the apparently normal tone, the sympathetic nervous system continues to play an important pathophysiological role in established hypertension. Borderline hypertension is associated with numerous metabolic abnormalities including obesity and insulin resistance. It is tempting to view all these abnormalities as a common expression of the increased sympathetic drive in hypertension. Explanation of the basis of the association of hypertension and metabolic abnormalities promises to bring new insights into the pathophysiology of two common diseases of civilization: hypertension and diabetes mellitus. 
Pitfalls in the diagnosis of drug smuggler's abdomen. Narcotics "body packing" can be detected in abdominal X-rays by the ring shadow caused by air trapped in the packs. In a series of 82 cases admitted for abdominal X-ray in Helsinki, Finland, in 1982 through 1988, we encountered 9 (11.0%) true positives, 3 (3.6%) false positives, and 1 (1.2%) false negative. The false positives were due to the constipation often associated with the narcotics abuse. The false negative X-ray diagnosis was attributable to an inexperienced radiologist. False negatives may also be associated with packets containing marijuana, packs with few wrappings, aluminum-foil coated packs, and machine-packed narcotics. Searching for trapped air in radiographs, repeated X-raying by an experienced radiologist, use of computed tomography, or combined urinary drug screening may be applied to diminish false findings and to avoid unnecessary arrest for the purpose of fecal screening over several days. 
A single amino acid substitution in the variable region of the light chain specifically blocks immunoglobulin secretion. Although immunoglobulin light chains are usually secreted in association with heavy chains, free light chains can be secreted by lymphocytes. To identify the structural features of light chains that are essential for their secretion, we mutated a conserved sequence in the variable domain of a lambda I light chain. The effects of the mutations on secretion were assayed by transient expression in COS-1 cells. One mutant (AV60), which replaced Ala-60 with Val, was secreted as efficiently as wild-type lambda I by transfected COS-1 cells. This result was not surprising because secreted lambda II chains contain valine in this position. However, a second lambda I mutant (AV60FS62), which replaced Phe-62 with Ser as well as Ala-60 with Val, was not secreted. This mutant was arrested in the endoplasmic reticulum, as judged by immunofluorescence and by its association with a lumenal endoplasmic reticulum protein, immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (BiP). The defect in secretion was not due to gross misfolding of the lambda I chain, since cells cotransfected with AV60FS62 and an immunoglobulin heavy chain gene produced functional antigen-binding antibodies. These assembled IgM molecules were still not secreted. Hence, the replacement of Phe-62 with Ser specifically affects a determinant on the lambda I light chain that is necessary for the intracellular transport of this molecule. 
End-systolic regional wall stress-length and stress-shortening relations in an experimental model of normal, ischemic and reperfused myocardium. Assessment of left ventricular function is influenced by a number of hemodynamic factors. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the end-systolic regional wall stress-dimension relation in a series of 25 mongrel dogs. In Group A (n = 18) the regional wall stress-velocity of circumferential fiber shortening relation was measured before and after three interventions: volume infusion, metoprolol infusion and dobutamine infusion. The electrocardiogram, left ventricular pressure and its first derivative (dP/dt), arterial pressure and echocardiograms were recorded at baseline and after phenylephrine administration (to increase afterload). For each dog values for regional wall stress were plotted against the velocity of circumferential fiber shortening. For all dogs the relations were inversely linear (r = -0.65 to -0.98). Volume infusion increased end-diastolic volume (p less than 0.05) without shifting the slope or intercept of the relation, indicating its independence from preload. Dobutamine caused a shift in the intercept to the right but no change in slope and metoprolol shifted the relation to the left without altering the slope. The effect of ischemia and reperfusion on the end-systolic regional wall stress-length relation was examined in Group B (n = 7), at baseline, after 5 min of mid-left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and after 10 min of reperfusion. Afterload was increased by hydraulic aortic occlusion. Regional wall stress was lowest at baseline, highest during ischemia and intermediate after reperfusion (100.2 +/- 32.1, 193.5 +/- 81.5, 141.9 +/- 67.6 kdyn/cm2, respectively, p less than 0.001). The end-systolic regional wall stress-length relation was linear during baseline, ischemia and reperfusion (r = 0.96, 0.95, 0.98, respectively, p less than 0.05). Ischemia caused an increase in the slope and a shift in the intercept to the right compared with baseline. Reperfusion represented an incomplete return toward baseline. This study demonstrates that the regional wall stress-velocity of circumferential fiber shortening relation is linear, independent of preload, incorporates afterload and is sensitive to changes in contractility. In addition, the regional wall stress-length relation can be measured in a nonhomogeneously contracting left ventricle and is predictably altered by ischemia and reperfusion. This relation may prove useful to determine whether alterations in regional systolic function result from changes in local load or contractility in the left ventricle with a regional wall motion abnormality. 
Identification of transforming genes of subgroup A and C strains of Herpesvirus saimiri. Herpesvirus saimiri is an oncogenic herpesvirus that induces rapidly progressing lymphomas in New World primates. Using retrovirus vectors for gene transfer, specific open reading frames of H. saimiri were tested for their ability to transform rodent cells in culture. One open reading frame, designated STP-C488 (for saimiri-transformation-associated protein of the subgroup C strain 488), phenotypically transformed Rat-1 cells, resulting in formation of foci, growth at reduced serum concentration, and growth to higher cell densities. Cells transformed by STP-C488 formed invasive tumors in nude mice. The STP-A11 reading frame of strain 11 (subgroup A) was much less potent in its transforming ability than STP-C488. These results demonstrate the oncogene nature of these two open reading frames and provide a means for studying their transforming functions independent of the rest of the H. saimiri genome. 
Arthrodesis with dual plates after failed total knee arthroplasty. Eleven patients were treated by arthrodesis with dual compression plates after failed total knee arthroplasty. All patients had a solid fusion, at an average of 5.6 months after the operation. The complications included one femoral stress fracture and one persistent infection, both of which were treated successfully. Fixation with dual compression plates is a useful technique for the salvage of a failed total knee arthroplasty, even when the patient has an infection. Staggering of the plates may help to prevent late stress fractures. 
Alterations in erythrocyte rheology in patients with severe peripheral vascular disease: 1. Cell volume dependence of erythrocyte rigidity. The erythrocyte rigidity of patients suffering from severe peripheral vascular disease (PVD) was measured by a filtration method using 3 microns pore size filters. Filtration pressures for both PVD patients and normal subjects showed a cell volume dependency, and patient filtration pressures were normalized to cell volume to evaluate intrinsic, ie, nonvolume dependent, abnormalities in erythrocyte deformability. A significant (p less than 0.001) increase in cell rigidity was found in 44 of 54 PVD patients in comparison with volume-matched normal controls. No significant difference was found between patient mean corpusculer hemoglobin (MCH) and normal MCH at any given mean corpuscular volume (MCV), indicating that observed increases in erythrocyte rigidity are not attributable to changes in patient MCH. Therefore, the mechanism of increase in erythrocyte rigidity for PVD patients still needs further investigation into such parameters as levels of adenosine triphosphate,2,3-DPG, and membrane fluidity (calcium- and/or protein-binding membrane, cholesterol and phospholipid content of membrane, etc), as well as other aspects of erythrocyte physiology. 
Cerebrovascular malformation causing sudden death. Analysis of three cases and review of the literature. Three unusual cases of sudden death resulting from cerebrovascular malformation (CVM) are presented. CVMs are highly variable in location and morphology, and may be difficult to detect. Two of the patients discussed here had CVMs that involved the circle of Willis directly, and produced rapidly fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage at the base of the brain; both of these subjects were in their late 30s. One had a history of epilepsy; the other had been completely asymptomatic prior to the catastrophic event. The third was an asymptomatic 6 year old with a cerebellar CVM, who survived long enough for inconclusive neurosurgical intervention. In all three cases, the diagnosis was not made prior to autopsy; in one case, the circumstances of death were initially misleading. The relevant literature is reviewed and discussed, with emphasis on differential diagnosis, anatomic examination, and background investigation. 
Sulfonylureas, ATP-sensitive K+ channels, and cellular K+ loss during hypoxia, ischemia, and metabolic inhibition in mammalian ventricle. Sulfonylurea derivatives glibenclamide and tolbutamide are selective blockers of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels. However, their ability to prevent cellular K+ loss and shortening of action potential duration during ischemia or hypoxia in the intact heart is modest compared with their efficacy at blocking KATP channels in excised membrane patches. In the isolated arterially perfused rabbit interventricular septum, the increase in unidirectional K+ efflux and shortening of action potential duration during substrate-free hypoxia were effectively blocked by glibenclamide, but only by very high concentrations (100 microM); during hypoxia with glucose present, glibenclamide was only partially effective at reducing K+ loss. During total global ischemia (10 minutes), up to 100 microM glibenclamide or 1 mM tolbutamide attenuated shortening of action potential duration but only reduced [K+]0 accumulation by a maximum of 32 +/- 6%. In isolated patch-clamped guinea pig ventricular myocytes in which the whole-cell ATP-sensitive K+ current was activated by exposure to the metabolic inhibitors, glibenclamide (up to 100 microM) and tolbutamide (10 mM) were only partially effective at blocking the whole-cell ATP-sensitive K+ current (maximum block, 51 +/- 10% and 50 +/- 9%, respectively), especially when ADP was included in the patch electrode solution. In inside-out membrane patches excised from these myocytes, glibenclamide blocked unitary currents through KATP channels with a Kd of 0.5 microM and a Hill coefficient of 0.5 in the absence of ADP at the cytosolic membrane surface, but block was incomplete when 100 microM ADP (+2 mM free Mg2+) was present. ADP had a similar effect on block of KATP channels by tolbutamide. These findings suggest that free cytosolic [ADP], which rises rapidly to the 100 microM range during early myocardial ischemia and hypoxia, may account for the limited efficacy of sulfonylureas at blocking ischemic and hypoxic cellular K+ loss under these conditions. 
US-guided venipuncture for venography in the edematous leg. A technique for sonographic-guided venipuncture was developed especially for venography made difficult by gross leg edema. Five patients were evaluated in whom venography had been attempted but was initially unsuccessful because of difficult venous access. All five underwent successful venipuncture after sonographic localization of a vein. Ultrasound-guided venipuncture is simple and useful when venous access by palpation is difficult. 
Stromal osseous metaplasia in carcinoma of the bladder. Osseous metaplasia of the stroma of carcinomas of the bladder is a rare finding that must be distinguished from osteosarcoma and carcinosarcoma. We report a case of multifocal osseous metaplasia in a high grade urothelial carcinoma with extensive glandular differentiation, arising in the base of the bladder of an 84-year-old man. Reports of 11 other cases of stromal osseous metaplasia in primary bladder carcinomas and of 5 cases of stromal osseous metaplasia in metastases of bladder carcinoma are reviewed. 
Effect of colloidal bismuth subcitrate on age related gastric lesions in the rat. The purpose of this study was to determine the changes in rat gastric functional morphology that take place with age and to study the action of colloidal bismuth subcitrate on the age related degeneration of the stomach. At 95 weeks of age erosions were apparent over 80% of the gastric mucosa and this was associated with a significant decline in the numbers and mucus content of the mucosal epithelial cells. The rate of stem cell proliferation in the neck region was also significantly lower than that found in 9 week old animals. The administration of 50 mg/kg colloidal bismuth subcitrate for 14 days to 9 week old animals resulted in slight hypertrophy of the mucosal epithelial cells. When 95 week animals were placed on the same regimen there was a decline in the number of deep erosions in the mucosa and an increase in the number and mucin content of the mucosal epithelial cells. A significant increase in the proliferation of the stem cell population was also observed after colloidal bismuth subcitrate administration. It is suggested that colloidal bismuth subcitrate may ameliorate the increased susceptibility to harmful agents that occurs with age. 
Hemopericardium: a late complication after repair of pectus excavatum. Hemopericardium and tamponade occurred in a 12 year old boy with Marfan's syndrome, two years after surgical repair of pectus excavatum. This life-threatening complication resulted from penetration of a fractured metal plate through the pericardium into the right atrium. The clinical details are reported and discussed. 
Sequential appearance of IL-1 and IL-6 activities in rat carrageenin-induced pleurisy. IL-1 and IL-6 activities were measured in the pleural exudate of rats during carrageenin-induced pleurisy to examine the relationship of the local production of cytokines to the inflammatory reaction. Time courses of appearance of the cytokines and inflammatory parameters in the exudate were compared. IL-1 activity and exudate volume started to increase at 1 h after the carrageenin injection, and then slightly later IL-6 activity and leukocyte number began to increase. IL-1 showed peak activity of approximately 700 U at 3 h and IL-6, of 6000 U at 5 h in the exudate, whereas exudate volume and number of polymorphonuclear leukocytes continued to increase thereafter. Furthermore, IL-6 level in the plasma of the carrageenin-injected rats showed a peak at 4 h (30 U/ml), and when rhIL-1 alpha (100,000 U) was intrapleurally injected, the more rapid increase in plasma IL-6 level was demonstrated at 1 h (30 U/ml). This latter rise was neutralized with simultaneous injection of anti-rhIL-1 alpha antibody. These facts indicate the possibility that IL-1 produced in the exudate or injected could rapidly propagate a signal to induce IL-6 production in the circulation. It took several hours to transmit an inflammatory signal that stimulated the liver to synthesize the acute-phase protein, T-kininogen. The time lag from the peak induction of IL-1 to the T-kininogen-increase in the pleurisy corresponded well to the interval for T-kininogen-increase by exogenous rhIL-1 alpha injection. These results strongly suggest that the initial inflammatory stimulus induces sequentially IL-1, IL-6, and T-kininogen production in this carrageenin inflammation. 
Cytoreductive surgery in disseminated non-seminomatous germ cell tumours of testis. Between 1977 and 1988, 67 patients underwent surgical removal of residual metastatic deposits following an aggressive chemotherapy regimen (cisplatin, vincristine, methotrexate and bleomycin alternating with etoposide, actinomycin D and cyclophosphamide) for disseminated germ cell tumours of the testis (stage IIB or above). Ninety-one surgical procedures were performed. There were 63 (69 per cent) retroperitoneal lymph node dissections, 16 (18 per cent) thoracotomies, three (3 per cent) hepatic resections, three (3 per cent) craniotomies, five (5 per cent) delayed orchidectomies and one anterolateral decompression of the vertebral column. Nine (13 per cent) patients required a repeat retroperitoneal node dissection and one patient needed a repeat thoracotomy to remove recurrent metastatic deposits during the period of follow-up. Multivisceral resections and vascular reconstruction procedures were required in 20 (30 per cent) patients undergoing retroperitoneal node dissection. Fifty-five (82 per cent) patients remain in complete remission with a mean follow-up period of 49.6 months (range 2-121 months). Nine (13 per cent) patients died with metastatic disease between 2 months to 4 years after operation. There were three deaths in the perioperative period (4 per cent). The histology of the resected metastases revealed undifferentiated active tumour in 20 (30 per cent) patients, differentiated mature teratoma in 29 (43 per cent) patients and fibrosis/necrosis in 18 (27 per cent) patients. Twelve (60 per cent) patients with undifferentiated elements and 15 patients (60 per cent) with raised preoperative tumour markers (poor prognostic categories) are in complete remission. Cytoreductive surgery in patients with metastatic germ cell tumours offers the best chance of remission following chemotherapy even in poor prognostic group categories. 
Role of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis in intraabdominal abscess formation in the rat. Our concept of the pathogenesis of acute salpingitis and advanced pelvic infection, such as tuboovarian abscess, is evolving. Although Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis are thought to play a significant role in acute pelvic inflammatory disease, other microorganisms, such as aerobes and anaerobes, have repeatedly been reported to play a significant role, also, particularly in the patient with advanced disease. A study was designed to evaluate the pathogenesis, and particularly any synergistic role, of some aerobes and anaerobes with N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis abscess formation. Using the rat model developed by Weinstein and Onderdonk, the study demonstrated that N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis alone do not produce abscesses. However, when combined with facultative or anaerobic bacteria, synergism with abscess formation is noted frequently. The data support the hypothesis that N gonorrhoeae and C trachomatis initiate infection and that aerobic and anaerobic bacteria act synergistically to produce abscesses. In addition, microorganisms not inoculated were found to be recruited into the infectious process. The organisms may gain access to the peritoneal cavity via the lower genital tract or from transmucosal migration from the intestinal flora. 
Hearing improvement after acoustic tumor removal. Hearing improvement after removal of an acoustic tumor is an uncommon occurrence. Hearing improvement was observed in 8.5% of acoustic tumor removals performed using the middle fossa approach in an attempt to preserve hearing. Improvement in speech discrimination occurred most frequently and was of greatest magnitude compared with changes in the speech reception threshold or pure-tone average. No preoperative factors were predictive of postoperative hearing improvement. Findings support the conclusion that candidates for hearing preservation surgery should be chosen on the merits of their existing preoperative hearing and not on the basis of anticipated improvement. 
Cocaine-related symptoms in patients presenting to an urban emergency department. STUDY OBJECTIVES: Cocaine abuse is a serious social problem that precipitates a significant number of emergency hospital encounters. To determine the nature of cocaine-related symptoms, we studied patients with cocaine use presenting to all adult services of an urban emergency department. DESIGN: Review of consecutive cases, with analysis of clinical features. SETTING: All adult EDs of an urban teaching hospital. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Patients acknowledging recent use of cocaine (within 72 hours) and/or with cocaine detected on a toxicologic screen. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Psychiatric complaints accounted for 44 (30.6%) presentations, followed by neurologic (17.4%), cardiopulmonary (16%), trauma (11.8%), and addiction-related (11.1%) symptoms. Cardiopulmonary symptoms were more frequently associated with intranasal than with IV or smoked cocaine (P = .003). Suicidal intent was the most common psychiatric reason for presentation, occurring in 24 patients (16.6%). Seventeen presented with trauma, including three involved in motor vehicle accidents. CONCLUSION: Cardiopulmonary symptoms such as chest pain and palpitations may be significantly more frequent in patients who use intranasal cocaine; suicidal intent is common among patients presenting with psychiatric symptoms related to cocaine; and the range of cocaine-related symptoms is varied, including not only psychiatric and cardiopulmonary symptoms but also trauma. 
Hurthle cell hyperplasia and sarcoidosis of the thyroid. We report of a case of Hurthle cell hyperplasia of the thyroid that was correctly identified preoperatively by fine-needle aspiration cytology but was unexpectedly associated with sarcoid granulomas. To our knowledge, the association has not been previously reported. The rarely described thyroid involvement by sarcoidosis is briefly reviewed. 
Clinical correlates of abnormal sensitivity to intraesophageal balloon distension. Sixty-five patients with esophageal complaints were studied to determine clinical associations with abnormal sensitivity to intraesophageal balloon distension (esophageal sensory dysfunction). Associations were examined in four categories: motility, esophageal symptoms, recent psychological symptoms, and general clinical features. A positive response to balloon distension (pain with less than or equal to 8 ml volume) was found in 29 (45%) of the subjects. This response was associated with specific findings in each category except recent psychological symptoms. A multiple logistic regression analysis indicated that an increased frequency of multipeaked waves on motility testing, presence of dysphagia, and shorter height of the subject each had an independent association with positive response to balloon distension (P less than or equal to 0.05 for each). Further comparison of subjects with sensory dysfunction, motor dysfunction, or both (sensorimotor dysfunction) indicated that subjects with the combined disorder appeared more symptomatic than those with either finding alone. These observations indicate that: (1) esophageal motor and sensory dysfunction are partially associated, but both contribute to the symptomatic state; (2) dysphagia may be representative of sensory dysfunction in some cases; and (3) subject height should be taken into consideration when interpreting balloon distension results. 
Management of the pregnant woman with spinal cord injuries. This paper forms part of an ongoing prospective study of pregnancy and labour in women with spinal cord injuries and combines a prospective and retrospective analysis of 17 pregnancies in 15 women with spinal injuries. The management and outcome in those 17 pregnancies is reviewed. 
Nutritional therapy for infants with diarrhea. The appropriate choice of treatment for infants with diarrhea has long provoked debate. Growth of infants with diarrhea is adversely affected by associated diseases including anorexia, malabsorption, catabolic response to infection, and iatrogenic starvation. To prevent the negative effects of diarrhea on the nutrition of infants, continued feeding during the active and early convalescent phases has been recommended. Although this concept is not new, until recently it has been little used in the treatment of diarrhea. In this article we examine the current knowledge about, and trends in, feeding infants with diarrhea. We will discuss treatments for the well-nourished infant with acute diarrhea, the infant with prolonged diarrhea, and the malnourished infant. Information regarding the use of local staples will also be provided. 
A double-blind, placebo-controlled cytogenetic study of oral acyclovir in patients with recurrent genital herpes. The antiherpes drug acyclovir breaks chromosomes in vitro at millimolar concentrations and at highly toxic doses in rodents but does not induce single-gene mutations. Recurrent genital herpes patients were examined to determine if such chromosomal damage occurs in peripheral lymphocytes during acute or chronic acyclovir therapy. Patients were randomly assigned to receive acyclovir suppressively and for recurrences, placebo suppressively and acyclovir for recurrences, or placebo suppressively and for recurrences (n greater than or equal to 20 for each group; all treatment double-blind). Normal volunteers and acyclovir-treated cultures served as additional controls. Cytogenetic analyses were done at enrollment (pretreatment), on day 5 of acute acyclovir or placebo treatment for the first postenrollment recurrence (postacute), and at the end of a year on study (postchronic). Cells in metaphase, 150 for each patient, were examined at each time point for structural and numerical chromosomal abnormalities. No cytogenetic effects of chronic or acute oral acyclovir treatment were found relative to lifestyle controls, pretreatment controls, or placebo treatment. 
Lysis of autologous melanoma cells by tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes: association with clinical response. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) can be grown in vitro in medium containing interleukin-2 (IL-2). In clinical trials at the Surgery Branch of the National Cancer Institute, patients with metastatic malignant melanomas were treated with IL-2 plus the adoptive transfer of autologous TILs. At the time of treatment, TILs were assayed for in vitro lysis of fresh autologous and allogeneic melanoma cells and Daudi cells. Patients were evaluated for clinical response 4-8 weeks later. Lysis of autologous tumor cells by TILs was significantly higher for responding than for nonresponding patients. Tumor cells from responding and nonresponding patients were equally sensitive to lysis by allogeneic lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells. There was no difference between TILs from responding and nonresponding patients for lysis of LAK-sensitive Daudi cells, which was low in most cases and demonstrated that TIL lysis of autologous tumor cells was not due to LAK cells. The observed association of autologous tumor cell lysis by TILs with clinical response suggests that the development of culture methods to optimize lysis of autologous tumors may lead to increased response rates using this TIL treatment regimen. 
Gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging of the musculoskeletal system. Contrast-enhanced MR imaging with gadopentetate dimeglumine has been used in the evaluation of musculoskeletal disorders only in recent years, and for the most part it is still under investigation. Review of the literature identified potential uses for this technique: (1) in the spine, for differentiation between scar tissue and recurrent disk herniation and for evaluation of epidural tumors; (2) in musculoskeletal tumors, for differentiation between tumor necrosis and peritumoral edema and for characterization and evaluation of tumors before and after treatment; (3) in the joints for delineation of cartilage and tendon tears, with intraarticular injection, and for differentiation between pannus and joint effusion, with IV injection; and (4) for delineation of infectious processes. Further studies are needed to confirm most of these potential indications. It is unlikely that gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging will become a routine part of musculoskeletal MR imaging, and its use will be reserved for specific circumstances. 
Granular cell tumor of the eyelid. We present a case of granular cell tumor of the eyelid. Although commonly reported elsewhere in the body, this entity rarely occurs in the ocular adnexa. 
Major role for arterial disease in morbidity and mortality after kidney transplantation in diabetic recipients. OBJECTIVE: To identify clinical characteristics of diabetic end-stage renal disease patients that place individual transplant candidates at high risk for arterial morbidity and mortality after transplantation. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We studied the course of 101 sequential renal allograft recipients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, transplanted between 10 November 1980 and 1 April 1986. Arterial disorders were tabulated from medical records and interviews with individual patients, their families, and their private physicians. Documentation of discrete arterial events included recorded physical examinations, radiographic studies, laboratory data, electrocardiograms, peripheral vascular flow studies, and operative reports. The prevalence of preoperative arterial disease was compared with the occurrence of new arterial events after kidney transplantation. RESULTS: Within a mean follow-up period of 47 mo, a 30% absolute mortality rate was observed. Of these deaths, 57% resulted from arterial disorders. Clinical manifestations of arterial disease were recognized in 41% of recipients before transplantation, and 78% of these patients suffered new vascular events after transplantation. Of the entire sample, 57% developed at least one new complication of arterial disease after transplantation, whereas only 34% had no vascular diagnosis before or after transplantation. Cerebral, coronary, and peripheral arterial complications after transplantation occurred in 14, 28, and 36% of the patients, respectively. The corresponding incidences of stroke, myocardial infarction, and amputation were 12, 14, and 25%. Pretransplant coronary artery disease predisposed to new coronary events after transplantation, but only peripheral arterial complications occurred more often after transplantation compared with the preoperative period. The probability of arterial complications or death correlated with patient age at first transplant and duration of diabetes but not with sex or smoking history. CONCLUSIONS: Intrinsic arterial disease in diabetic renal allograft recipients contributes heavily to the long-term morbidity and mortality after transplantation and poses the major threat to survival. Diabetic transplant candidates greater than 35 yr of age or with clinical evidence of arterial disease should undergo an extensive vascular assessment, including stress thallium myocardial imaging and/or coronary arteriography. Such recipients should receive careful preoperative counseling about their excess risk for subsequent arterial disorders. 
Epidural analgesia in Eaton-Lambert myasthenic syndrome. Effects on respiratory function. The anaesthetic management of a patient with Eaton-Lambert myasthenic syndrome undergoing thoracotomy is described. Epidural anaesthesia, in combination with a light level of general anaesthesia, provided good operating conditions and postoperative analgesia. Pulmonary function and ventilatory responses to carbon dioxide and hypoxia were measured before operation. These tests were repeated after the epidural administration of 8 ml 2% lignocaine before surgery and after 2 mg morphine sulphate in 10 ml saline postoperatively. Minor reductions in some of the ventilatory parameters were observed. The epidural technique appears to be a useful and safe method by which to manage patients with Eaton-Lambert syndrome undergoing thoracotomy. 
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 receptors and human colon adenocarcinoma. Epidemiological evidence suggests that dietary calcium and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-(OH)2D3) might have a protective effect against colorectal cancers. Since the presence of receptors is required for steroid action, specific 1,25-(OH)2D3 receptors (RD3) were investigated in biopsies taken at different levels of the colon. The study involved 90 biopsies from patients operated on for colorectal adenocarcinoma. They were paired biopsies from adenocarcinoma tissue and adjacent normal mucosa. In addition, 26 normal intestinal mucosa biopsies from patients without cancer were examined. RD3 receptors were assayed in tissue extract by the dextran-coated charcoal technique and also characterized by sucrose density gradient sedimentation. Scatchard analysis showed a single class of specific high affinity-low capacity sites binding for 1,25-(OH)2D3. The incidence of RD3 was 86 per cent in normal mucosa (n = 77) and lower in carcinoma (n = 34), for which the incidence decreased significantly (P less than 0.001) from right colon (58 per cent) to left colon (37 per cent) and rectum (19 per cent). These data suggest that the normal colon is a potential target organ for 1,25-(OH)2D3 which might modulate calcium transport in the colon. Loss of receptivity to 1,25-(OH)2D3 is associated with malignant transformation. 
Complications of the Heitz-Boyer urinary diversion: case report of late development of malignancy. We report on 3 patients with bladder exstrophy followed for more than 15 years after having undergone Heitz-Boyer urinary diversion. One patient had adenocarcinoma at the ureterocolonic anastomoses 16 years after diversion. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of a malignancy developing after a Heitz-Boyer procedure. The other 2 patients had significant problems with urinary incontinence and recurrent urinary tract infections. Initial success with this form of urinary diversion can be followed by significant long-term complications. 
Abnormalities of the breast caused by biopsy: spectrum of mammographic findings. It is important for radiologists to be familiar with the spectrum of mammographic abnormalities caused by postbiopsy changes in the breast. Although many breast biopsies leave no residual abnormality, occasionally an atypical manifestation of a biopsy scar may produce a radiologic finding suspicious enough to mandate a biopsy. Problem-solving maneuvers recommended to increase confidence that a change is related to a recent biopsy include (1) skin markers; (2) comparison with preoperative films; (3) correlation with physical examination; (4) tailored mammographic views, including focal spot compression, magnification, and tangential views; and (5) postoperative and follow-up mammograms. 
Intracisternal recombinant tissue plasminogen activator after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Fifteen patients undergoing surgery within 48 hours of aneurysm rupture were administered recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) directly into the basal subarachnoid cisterns after minimal surgical clot removal and aneurysm clipping. Preoperatively, 13 patients had diffuse or localized thick subarachnoid blood clots on computerized tomography (CT), and two had diffuse thin clots. The rt-PA was given as a single intraoperative injection of 7.5 mg (one patient), 10 mg (nine patients), or 15 mg (five patients). Postoperative cisternal drainage was employed in three patients. All patients except one demonstrated partial to complete cisternal clot clearance on CT scans within 24 hours after surgery. The patient who showed no clot reduction was the only patient in this series to develop symptomatic vasospasm and was the only fatality, dying 8 days after rupture. No vasospasm was seen on follow-up cerebral angiography in six of the 14 responding patients, and mild-to-moderate arterial narrowing was seen in at least one major cerebral artery in the remaining eight patients. Severe angiographic vasospasm was not seen, although the patient who died did not undergo repeat angiography. There was one major complication early in the series which seemed clearly related to treatment, and that was a large extradural hematoma occurring within several hours of craniotomy. Intrathecal fibrinolytic treatment appears effective in clearing subarachnoid clot and reducing vasospasm, and may be associated with acceptable risks if given to patients with large-volume subarachnoid hemorrhages at high risk for severe vasospasm. 
Nerve palsy associated with total hip replacement. Risk factors and prognosis. We reviewed the results of 3126 consecutive total hip replacements and identified postoperative neuropathy in the ipsilateral lower extremity after fifty-three (1.7 per cent) over-all and after 1.3 per cent of the primary arthroplasties. The prevalence was 5.2 per cent after the primary arthroplasties that had been done for congenital dislocation or dysplasia of the hip and 3.2 per cent after the revisions (all diagnoses). Thus, these two types of operations were risk factors (p less than 0.01). Limb-lengthening only partially accounted for the increased prevalence of neuropathy after these procedures. The sciatic nerve was involved in all but five extremities. The cause of the palsy was unclear or unknown in thirty (57 per cent) of the extremities. When the patients were last seen, at a minimum of one year and a maximum of sixteen and one-half years after the operation, seven extremities were normal neurologically, thirty-three had a mild neurological deficit, and thirteen had a major deficit. All patients who had complete recovery of neurological function had it by twenty-one months. Of thirty-six extremities that were evaluated at a minimum of twenty-four months after the operation, seven were neurologically normal, twenty-three had a mild persistent deficit, and six had a major persistent deficit. The ability to walk decreased for all patients who had a nerve palsy. The greatest disability was in the patients who had been forty-eight years old or less and had had a primary total hip replacement (p = 0.037). The prognosis for neurological recovery was related to the degree to which the nerve was damaged. 
Trisomy 21: association between reduced recombination and nondisjunction. To assess the association between recombination and nondisjunction of chromosome 21, we analyzed cytogenetic and DNA markers in 104 trisomy 21 individuals and their parents. Our DNA marker studies of parental origin were informative in 100 cases, with the overwhelming majority (94) being maternal in origin. This value is significantly higher than the 75%-80% maternal nondisjunction rate typically observed in cytogenetic studies of trisomy 21 and illustrates the increased accuracy of the molecular approach. Using the maternally derived cases and probing at 19 polymorphic sites on chromosome 21, we created a genetic map that spans most of the long arm of chromosome 21. The map was significantly shorter than the normal female linkage map, indicating that absence of pairing and/or recombination contributes to nondisjunction in a substantial proportion of cases of trisomy 21. 
Detection of inadvertent respiratory placement of small-bore feeding tubes: a report of 10 cases. Documented inadvertent respiratory placement of small-bore feeding tubes was identified in 10 patients over a 2-year period in five intensive care units and two general wards. Types and effectiveness of bedside methods used by clinicians to test tube position were described. The most frequently used methods were observation for respiratory distress and auscultation of the abdomen during air insufflations through the tubes. It was concluded that commonly used bedside methods to test feeding tube placement often gave false reassurance that the tubes were properly positioned. 
Differences in beta-adrenergic neuroeffector mechanisms in ischemic versus idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. BACKGROUND. We measured the content and activities of components of the beta-adrenergic receptor-G protein-adenylate cyclase complex and adrenergic neurotransmitter levels in left and right ventricular myocardial preparations derived from 77 end-stage failing human hearts from patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) or ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy (ISCDC). METHODS AND RESULTS. The results were compared with data obtained in 21 nonfailing hearts removed from organ donors. Compared with ISCDC ventricles, IDC left and right ventricles exhibited a greater degree of total beta- or beta 1-receptor downregulation. In contrast, compared with IDC right ventricles, isolated tissue preparations of ISCDC right ventricles exhibited a greater degree of subsensitivity to the inotropic effect of isoproterenol, indicating a relatively greater degree of functional uncoupling of right ventricular ISCDC beta-receptors from mechanical response. In addition, relative to IDC left ventricles, preparations of ISCDC left ventricle exhibited greater subsensitivity to beta-agonist-mediated adenylate cyclase stimulation, indicating functional uncoupling of left ventricular ISCDC beta-receptors from cyclic AMP generation. The uncoupling of beta-receptors in ISCDC left and right ventricles may have been a result of abnormalities in G protein activation of adenylate cyclase; compared with age- and cardiac function-matched respective left or right IDC ventricles, ISCDC left ventricles exhibited less stimulation of adenylate cyclase by NaF or forskolin but no change in Mn2+ stimulation, whereas ISCDC right ventricles exhibited less stimulation by the nonhydrolyzable guanine nucleotide Gpp (NH)p. Also, IDC right ventricles exhibited a "selective" (not present in IDC left ventricles or ISCDC ventricles) decrease in stimulation of adenylate cyclase by Mn2+. Tissue neurotransmitter levels and pertussis toxin-catalyzed ADP ribosylation were altered to similar extents in IDC and ISCDC. CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that potentially important differences exist in the regulatory behavior of components of the beta-adrenergic receptor-G protein-adenylate cyclase complex in IDC versus ISCDC, differences that presumably relate to the distinct pathophysiologies of these two types of heart muscle disease. 
Home use of rectal diazepam for cluster and prolonged seizures: efficacy, adverse reactions, quality of life, and cost analysis. From 1982 through 1987, 128 families, who were instructed in the use of rectally administered diazepam (R-DZP) for the treatment of severe epileptic seizures, were surveyed. Sixty-seven families returned questionnaires and met inclusion/exclusion criteria; the results were used to analyze the medical, psychosocial, and economic impact of this program during the first year following instruction. Twenty-six families did not use R-DZP, primarily because of patient improvement. Among families using R-DZP, a total of 428 doses were administered to 41 children. R-DZP was effective in controlling seizures in 85% of patients. Adverse reactions usually were mild, consisting of drowsiness and/or behavioral changes. Compared to the year prior to instruction, emergency room visits decreased in both R-DZP-treated and -nontreated children; however, cost-savings were greater for the R-DZP group ($1,039.00 vs $420.00 per patient per year). Improvements in quality of life associated with the availability of R-DZP were observed by 58% of users and 27% of nonusers which included improved management of their children's seizures, increased flexibility in family activities, and greater peace of mind. R-DZP appears to be a practical method in the effective treatment of severe seizures at home. 
Central role of sodium in hypertension in diabetic subjects. The common association between diabetes mellitus and hypertension may be promoted by several mechanisms. Patients with insulin-dependent (type I) diabetes and prone to develop nephropathy often have a familial predisposition for essential hypertension, whereas normotensive healthy offspring of nondiabetic essential hypertensive parents tend to have a reduced insulin sensitivity and increased plasma insulin levels. Na+ retention occurs as a characteristic alteration in type I or non-insulin-dependent (type II) diabetes; exchangeable body Na+ (Naex) is increased by 10% on average. This abnormality develops in the uncomplicated stage of diabetes and differentiates diabetic from nondiabetic essential hypertensive subjects. Possible Na(+)- retaining mechanisms include increased glomerular filtration of glucose leading to enhanced proximal tubular Na(+)-glucose cotransport, hyperinsulinemia (which activates several tubular Na+ transporters), an extravascular shift of fluid with Na+, and, once it occurs, renal failure. The pathogenetic role of Na+ retention in diabetes-associated hypertension is supported by positive correlations between systolic or mean blood pressure and Naex and by normalization of blood pressure after removal of excess Na+ by diuretic treatment in hypertensive diabetic subjects. The latter may also have an enhanced sensitivity of blood pressure to Na+. Plasma levels of active renin, angiotensin II, aldosterone, and catecholamines are usually normal or low in metabolically stable type I or type II diabetes. However, an exaggerated vascular reactivity to norepinephrine and angiotensin II commonly occurs already at uncomplicated stages of type I or type II diabetes. This may be a manifestation of functional (i.e., intracellular electrolytes) and/or morphological (proliferation, narrowing, and stiffening) vasculopathy. Diabetes-associated Na+ retention, vasculopathy, and a presumably inherited predisposition for both diabetes and essential hypertension may represent important complementary factors favoring the frequent occurrence of hypertension in the diabetic population. 
Detection of malignant bone tumors: MR imaging vs scintigraphy. One hundred six patients with a known or suspected diagnosis of bone cancer (11 patients with biopsy-proved primary tumors, 95 patients with metastatic disease) were evaluated with scintigraphy and MR imaging to determine the relative sensitivity of each technique in the detection of bone disease. MR imaging was performed at 0.5 T as part of the entry evaluation into Intramural Research Board protocols (30%), for evaluation of cord compression, or because of an equivocal scintigram. MR was performed with T1-weighted (e.g., 300-500/10-20 [TR/TE]), T2-weighted (e.g., 2000/80) spin-echo (SE), and a short-TI inversion recovery (STIR) pulse sequence. Scintigrams were performed with 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate. A retrospective analysis showed that in 30 (28%) of 106 patients, MR imaging performed over a limited region of interest revealed a focal abnormality consistent with tumor that was not observed on scintigraphy. Only one patient had an abnormality on scintigraphy, caused by a metastasis, that was not found on MR images. In 73 (69%) of the 106 patients, the results of MR imaging and scintigraphy were equivalent; in 41 cases results of both techniques were normal. A McNemar analysis of the discordant cases showed MR imaging to be more sensitive than scintigraphy was (p less than .001). Our results suggest that although MR imaging has a greater sensitivity in detecting focal disease, scintigraphy is still the most useful screening test for evaluating the entire skeleton. MR imaging should be reserved for clarification of scintigraphic findings when suspicion is high for tumor. 
Central hypothyroidism due to isolated TRH deficiency in a depressive man. A depressive man was evaluated for developing chronic fatigue and cold intolerance, in whom laboratory findings showed decreased thyroid hormone levels (T4, 2.7 micrograms dl-1; T3, 0.76 ng ml-1) with normal blood levels of TSH. A single bolus injection of TRH (500 micrograms) significantly stimulated prolactin secretion, but did not cause an increase in blood TSH levels (basal level, 1.2 microU ml-1 vs. 1.3 microU ml-1 30 min after injection). By contrast, TRH-induced TSH stimulation occurred after repeated injection of TRH for 4 consecutive days (basal level, 1.5 microU ml-1 vs. 5.6 microU ml-1 30 min after injection). Blood thyroid hormone concentrations were restored to normal levels after long-term administration of TRH. Other pituitary functions remained unchanged. A diagnosis of central hypothyroidism due to isolated TRH deficiency was made in this case, and the data presented here indicate that partial resistance of pituitary thyrotrophs to TRH may be associated with depression. 
Postoperative primary adrenal failure in a patient with anticardiolipin antibodies A 50-year-old woman with no history of thrombosis or recurrent abortions developed pulmonary thromboembolism and bilateral hemorrhagic adrenal infarction with adrenal failure after hysterectomy for uterine fibroids. Anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) were detected in high titer and have persisted. She remains well, without further thromboses, taking steroid replacement and warfarin anticoagulation. The initial presentation of aCL related disease can be as thrombotic postoperative complications in middle-age. 
Differentiation therapy of acute promyelocytic leukemia with tretinoin (all-trans-retinoic acid). BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia have a characteristic (15;17) translocation, with a breakpoint on chromosome 17 in the region of the retinoic acid receptor-alpha (RAR-alpha). Since this receptor has been shown to be involved with growth and differentiation of myeloid cells in vitro, and since recent clinical studies have reported that tretinoin (all-trans-retinoic acid) induces complete remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia we studied the effects of tretinoin on cellular maturation and molecular abnormalities in patients undergoing the induction of remission with this agent. RESULTS. Eleven patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with tretinoin administered orally at a dose of 45 mg per square meter of body-surface area per day. Nine of the 11 patients entered complete remission. In two patients, complete remission was preceded by striking leukocytosis that then resolved despite continued drug treatment. Serial studies of cellular morphologic features, cell-surface immunophenotypic analysis, and fluorescence in situ hybridization with a chromosome 17 probe revealed that clinical response was associated with maturation of the leukemic clone. All patients who responded to treatment who were tested by Northern blot analysis had expression of aberrant RAR-alpha. As patients entered complete remission, the expression of the abnormal RAR-alpha message decreased markedly; however, it was still detectable in several patients after complete morphologic and cytogenetic remission had been achieved. CONCLUSIONS. Tretinoin is a safe and highly effective agent for inducing complete remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. Clinical response to this agent is associated with leukemic-cell differentiation and is linked to the expression of an aberrant RAR-alpha nuclear receptor. Molecular detection of the aberrant receptor may serve as a useful marker for residual leukemia in patients with this disease. 
Esophageal motility disorders and chest pain. Motility abnormalities have long been recognized as a possible esophageal cause of chest pain; however, their exact role and prevalence remain largely unknown. Baseline manometry and the various provocative tests may suggest an esophageal origin, but their yield is low. The recent advent of prolonged ambulatory monitoring of intraesophageal pressure and the assessment of psychological factors are contributing to a clearer understanding of this complex problem. 
Spinal cord schistosomiasis: a pediatric case mimicking intrinsic cord neoplasm. We present the clinical, myelographic, MRI, and histologic data on a 7-year-old girl with confirmed Schistosoma mansoni infection of the spinal cord. MRI of the granulomatous spinal lesion revealed extensive enlargement of the cord in the T11-12 area, with some intramedullary swelling extending to T-5 through T-7. The clinical manifestations of spinal schistosomiasis can be diverse, and there should be a high index of suspicion for all patients from endemic areas. 
Resection of malignant bone tumors about the shoulder. A preliminary report of reconstruction with a new modular spacer. Reconstruction after resection of malignant bone tumors about the shoulder is difficult. Twelve patients had reconstruction using a new titanium modular spacer. This modular system allows the surgeon to reconstruct variable lengths of the proximal humerus. Although the patient has no active shoulder motion, excellent hand and elbow function is preserved. The spacer serves as a temporary device in the young active patient. A more definitive reconstructive procedure can be performed after the completion of chemotherapy and a sufficient disease-free interval. 
Congenital optic tract syndrome. We describe two patients with complete homonymous hemianopia who were unaware of their visual field defects. The clinical impression of an optic tract syndrome was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging, which showed absence of the corresponding tract in each case. The pathogenesis of congenital absence of the optic tract is unclear but it could represent either a primary failure of development or secondary atrophy due to focal injury during the perinatal period. 
CT evaluation of solitary pulmonary nodules: value of 185-H reference phantom. The pulmonary nodule CT reference phantom is widely used in the evaluation of nodules 2 cm or less in diameter. It is used to detect benign patterns of calcification that are not visible on thin-section CT scans. Since 1986, the reference nodules have been manufactured with a nominal composition of 185 H. The multicenter study published in 1986 used nodules with a nominal composition of 264 H, 100 H more than the threshold value reported by Siegelman et al. in 1980. In the multicenter study, one of 37 nodules diagnosed as benign with the phantom proved to be malignant. The purpose of this study was to determine the misdiagnosis rate with the 185-H phantom and to ascertain whether the malignant tumors predicted to be benign actually contained calcification. We retrospectively reviewed 296 cases in which examinations had been performed with the 185-H nodules since 1986. Eighty-five nodules were diagnosed as benign by comparison to the reference phantom. These 85 contained no visible calcification on thin-section CT scans. Ten of the 85 cases were shown to be malignant tumors. Eight were diagnosed as having a high probability of benignity. Two were diagnosed as having a moderate probability of benignity. Calcium was present in the tissue of all six nodules available for review. Fifty-nine of the 85 nodules were still clinically indeterminate at the time of this review. Even if all of the clinically indeterminate nodules are benign, the misdiagnosis rate would be significantly higher than in most previous studies. Although analysis by using the reference phantom with 185-H nodules may indicate a high probability of benignity, close radiologic follow-up is necessary. 
Comprehensive multidisciplinary treatment of chronic pain: a follow-up study of treated and non-treated groups. There are relatively few outcome studies of multidisciplinary chronic pain programs which have utilized no-treatment comparison groups. The present study compared a group of chronic pain patients (N = 42) treated in a comprehensive multidisciplinary pain program with a group of patients (N = 15) who were evaluated but not treated. Comparisons were made at evaluation and at a follow-up period averaging 11 months later. From evaluation to discharge, the treated group showed significant increases in physical functioning. From evaluation to long-term follow-up, both the treated and non-treated groups showed significant decreases in self-report pain ratings and interference with activities ratings. However, only the treated group showed a significant decrease in addictive medication use and increase in work functioning. The return-to-work rate for the treated group was 48% with an additional 28% of the patients being returned to vocational rehabilitation. None of the non-treated group returned to work or vocational rehabilitation. Results are discussed in terms of their support for the conclusion that comprehensive multidisciplinary pain programs produce marked subjective and functional changes. 
Neural processing of craniovascular pain: a synthesis of the central structures involved in migraine. In order to determine the anatomical distribution of cells concerned with relaying craniovascular nociception, local cerebral glucose utilization was determined by the 2-deoxyglucose method in tissue autoradiographs of the alpha-chloralose anesthetized cat. The superior sagittal sinus was carefully lifted from the brain by sectioning the dura laterally and the falx inferiorly and suspending the sinus across two platinum hook electrodes for stimulation. The sinus was stimulated electrically and its effect on caudal brainstem, upper cervical spinal cord and diencephalic metabolic activity determined. Stimulation of the sinus caused increased metabolic activity in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis, in the cervical dorsal horn and in a discrete area in the dorsolateral spinal cord at the second cervical segment. Metabolic activity was also increased in the ventrobasal thalamus, specifically in the ventroposteromedial (188%) nuclear group, in the medial nucleus of the posterior complex (70%) and the intralaminar complex (49%). There was no change in the surrounding thalamus, lateral geniculate nucleus or overlying cerebral cortex. These increases in 2-deoxyglucose utilisation were blocked by bilateral trigeminal ganglion ablation. The dorsolateral area activated in the spinal cord corresponds to a hitherto unrecognised group of cells in or near the lateral cervical nucleus that may form an important relay for craniovascular nociception. Further electrophysiological studies with glass coated tungsten microelectrodes have characterised the cells in these regions of the thalamus to be responsible for relaying nociceptive information. An understanding of the connections and properties of the neurons that subserve craniovascular pain is an essential prerequisite to understanding the complex pathophysiology of migraine. 
Dissecting aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery: spontaneous resolution. Dissecting aneurysms of the intracranial arteries display vascular pathological features that appear sporadically, generally affecting young adults. The clinical features of this condition may involve both ischemic episodes and hemorrhages. Posterior circulation is affected less than the rest of the intracranial arteries, and it is extremely rare to find the posterior cerebral arteries only affected. Mortality is high in patients where the lesion is located in the posterior intracranial circulation, although dissecting aneurysms limited to the posterior cerebral arteries may, to a certain extent, be benign. We report the case of a young woman with ischemia in the territory of the posterior cerebral artery that occurred subsequent to a dissecting aneurysm that resolved spontaneously to a complete remission, both clinically and as demonstrated by angiography. A review of the literature is made, analyzing the pathogenic, clinical, angiographic, and therapeutic characteristics of such lesions. 
Ischemic injury to the spinal cord or lumbosacral plexus after aorto-iliac reconstruction. Between January 1, 1980, and June 30, 1989, 9 patients (6 males and 3 females) developed ischemic injury to the spinal cord or lumbosacral plexus following 3,320 operations on the abdominal aorta (0.3%). The incidence of this complication was 0.1% (2 of 1,901) after elective and 1.4% (3 of 210) after emergency abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, and 0.3% (4 of 1,209) after repair for occlusive disease. Three of the latter had prior clinical evidence of distal embolization. Eight grafts were bifurcated (aorto-iliac:four, aorto-femoral: three, aorto-ilio-femoral:one). One patient underwent extra-anatomic revascularization. Only two patients had supraceliac aortic cross-clamping and one patient underwent exclusion of both internal iliac arteries. Four patients had hypotension. Early mortality was 22% (two of nine). Severe perioperative complications, mostly due to associated visceral and somatic ischemia and sepsis, were present in seven of the nine patients. The extent and type of the neurologic injury correlated with long-term outcome. Patients with ischemic injury of the lumbosacral roots or plexus had better recovery. Attention to the pelvic circulation and the collateral blood supply is important. Use of gentle technique to prevent embolization, avoidance of hypotension and prolonged supraceliac cross-clamping, revascularization of at least one internal iliac artery, and the use of heparin may decrease but not eliminate paraplegia. Once this unexpected complication occurs, careful neurologic evaluation should be done to localize the lesion and aid prognosis. 
Lipid peroxidation: a possible factor in late graft failure of coronary artery bypass grafts. Atherosclerosis is the paramount cause of late vein graft failure after coronary artery bypass grafting. Lipid peroxidation, which may play a significant role in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis, was examined in segments of vein grafts (n = 6) harvested at reoperation for coronary disease. These were analyzed for cholesterol, phospholipid, triglyceride, and lipid peroxides. Nonatherosclerotic vascular tissues, including coronary arteries (n = 6), saphenous veins (n = 9), and donor aortic specimens (n = 11) were analyzed for comparison. Risk factors for atherosclerosis including elevated serum cholesterol and triglycerides, smoking, and hypertension were more frequent in patients with coronary artery disease compared to organ donors. Lipid peroxides were elevated in explanted vein grafts when compared to either saphenous vein, coronary artery or donor aorta. Lipid peroxides were not significantly different in saphenous vein when compared to coronary artery, but levels in both of these tissues were greater than in donor aorta. Although increased levels of lipid peroxides in explanted veins may simply reflect morphologic changes in these grafts, the known effects of lipid peroxides on a number of biochemical events suggest that they may contribute directly to graft failure after coronary artery bypass grafting. 
Brain and brain tumor uptake of L-3-[123I]iodo-alpha-methyl tyrosine: competition with natural L-amino acids SPECT studies with L-3-[123I]iodo-alpha-methyl tyrosine (IMT) were carried out in 10 patients with different types of brain tumors--first under fasting conditions (basal) and a week later during intravenous infusion of a mixture of naturally-occurring L-amino acids (AA load). An uptake index (UI) was calculated by dividing tissue count rates by the integral of plasma count rates. The UI decreased by 45.6% +/- 15.4% (n = 10, p less than 0.001) for normal brain and by 53.2% +/- 14.1% for gliomas (n = 5, p less than 0.01) during AA load compared to basal conditions, while two meningiomas and a metastasis showed only a minor decrease (23.9 +/- 5.7%, n.s.). Two pituitary adenomas could not be delineated on the SPECT scans. These data indicate that IMT competes with naturally-occurring L-amino acids for transport into normal brain and gliomas. Transport characteristics of IMT into tumors of nonglial origin appear to be different from those of gliomas. For both types of tumors, it is advisable to perform IMT-SPECT under fasting conditions. 
The use of angioplasty, bypass surgery, and amputation in the management of peripheral vascular disease BACKGROUND. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has been adopted widely as a treatment for patients with peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremities. However, the effect of this procedure on the overall management of peripheral vascular disease and on the outcomes of patients has not been clearly delineated. In particular, it is not known whether angioplasty has replaced other treatments for peripheral vascular disease. METHODS. To assess the extent to which angioplasty is used and the associated changes in the surgical management of peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremities, we used data on hospital discharges in Maryland to identify all angioplasty procedures, peripheral bypass operations, and lower-extremity amputations performed for peripheral vascular disease in Maryland hospitals between 1979 and 1989. RESULTS. We estimated that from 1979 to 1989 the annual rate of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremities, adjusted for age and sex, rose from 1 to 24 per 100,000 Maryland residents (P less than 0.0001 by linear regression). Despite this increase in the use of angioplasty, the adjusted annual rate of peripheral bypass surgery also rose substantially, from 32 to 65 per 100,000 (P less than 0.001), whereas the adjusted annual rate of lower-extremity amputation remained stable at about 30 per 100,000. Total charges for hospitalizations during which a peripheral revascularization procedure was performed increased from $14.7 million in 1979 (in 1989 dollars) to $30.5 million in 1989. CONCLUSIONS. In Maryland, the adoption of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremities has been associated with an increase in the use of peripheral bypass surgery and with no decline in lower-extremity amputations. These results could be due to increased diagnosis of peripheral vascular disease, expanded indications for procedural interventions, or an increased number of repeat procedures performed in patients with peripheral vascular disease of the lower extremities. 
Transethmoid decompression of the optic nerve in head injuries: an update. Sixty-three patients with loss of vision following head injury were subjected to decompression of the optic nerve by the transethmoid route. This paper discusses the criteria for selection of patients for surgery, the results of the operation and the prognostic factors determining the results. 
Local hormonal factors (intracrine, autocrine, and paracrine) in hypertension. Vasoactive hormones acting as endocrine, neuroendocrine, or local hormonal systems (intracrine, autocrine, and paracrine) are an important component of the many factors that regulate blood pressure. Hypertension may be the result of an alteration in the balance between vasodepressor and vasopressor hormonal systems. Changes in this balance could be due to genetic factors such as mutations in one of the genes of the vasoactive system or environmental factors that alter the synthesis and release of one or more vasoactive hormones. Endocrine and neuroendocrine vasopressor hormonal systems, such as the renin-angiotensin system and catecholamines, play a well-established and important role in the regulation of blood pressure and the pathogenesis of some secondary forms of hypertension. The blockade of such systems has already resulted in effective antihypertensive treatment. The role of local hormonal systems is less well established; however, recent evidence suggests they also play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure and the pathogenesis of hypertension. Some vasopressor hormonal systems, such as the renin-angiotensin system, can act as both endocrine or local hormonal systems. Work using transgenic rats harboring the mouse Ren-2 gene has conclusively demonstrated that the renin-angiotensin system, acting as a local hormonal system, has the capability to cause severe hypertension. Whether this model of experimental hypertension mimics any type of human hypertension is not known. Vasodepressor hormones such as kinins, prostaglandins, and endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) act mainly as local hormonal systems, with the notable exception of atrial natriuretic factor, which may act as both an endocrine and a local hormone. The tissue kallikrein-kinin system, acting either directly or via paracrine eicosanoids or EDRF, participates in local regulation of the circulation, renal function, and the acute antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. A restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) that distinguishes the kallikrein gene family of a strain of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) from normotensive Brown Norway rats has been identified. In a set of 32 recombinant inbred strains derived from these SHR and Brown Norway strains, the RFLP marking the kallikrein gene family of SHR cosegregated with an increase in blood pressure. Also, in a study of Utah families it was found that a dominant-allele kallikrein gene expressed as high urinary kallikrein excretion was associated with a decreased risk of essential hypertension. In conclusion, vasopressor and vasodepressor hormones, acting not only as endocrine but also as local hormones, play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure and the pathogenesis of hypertension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Contribution of endogenous endothelin to the extension of myocardial infarct size in rats. Pathophysiological roles of endogenous endothelin have been studied from the viewpoint of its contribution to the extension of myocardial infarct size. A monoclonal antibody against endothelin 1 (AwETN40) suppressed changes induced by endothelin 1 and endothelin 2 but did not modify those by endothelin 3 in vivo or in vitro. Effects of AwETN40 on myocardial infarct size were investigated. Coronary ligation (1 hour) and reperfusion (24 hours) in rats caused infarction in 35% of the left ventricle. Repetitive or single administration of AwETN40 reduced the infarct size; an intravenous injection of 22.5 mg/kg of the antibody 5 minutes after coronary occlusion or 5 minutes before reperfusion reduced the size by 38% or 31% of the control, respectively. Plasma and tissue endothelin 1 and plasma big endothelin 1 in rats were measured at various stages after occlusion. Plasma endothelin 1 showed a fourfold increase 10 minutes after reperfusion (from 1.02 to 3.96 pg/ml) and had returned to the control value after 8 hours. Plasma big endothelin 1 showed changes similar to those of plasma endothelin 1. No significant changes in plasma endothelin 2 and endothelin 3 were observed. Cardiac tissue contained seven times as much endothelin 1 as the control value 1 hour after reperfusion (4.59 versus 33.1 pg/g tissue), and a high concentration (13.2 pg/g tissue) was maintained even after 48 hours. We concluded that an increase in endogenous endothelin 1 plays an important role in the extension of myocardial infarct size. 
Prospective, randomized controlled trial of interferon-alpha in children with chronic hepatitis B. Thirty-six children with chronic hepatitis B were entered into a randomized controlled trial of recombinant human interferon-alpha. All patients had hepatitis B virus DNA and increased levels of aminotransferases in serum for at least 1 yr. Twelve children received 10 MU of interferon-alpha 2b/m2 body surface area three times a week (group I); 12 children received 5 MU/m2 under the same conditions (group II); and 12 children served as controls (group III). During 6 mo of therapy, 12 of 24 (50%) treated patients (7 from group I, 58%, and 5 from group II, 42%) and 2 of 12 (17%) controls lost hepatitis B virus DNA from serum and subsequently remained negative. Comparison of the rate of response in group I vs. controls showed a statistically significant difference (p less than 0.05). Eleven of 12 (92%) treated patients who cleared hepatitis B virus DNA from serum lost HBeAg, seroconverted to anti-HBe and had improvement in liver histological findings with loss of hepatitis B virus DNA from liver. In 10, serum ALT levels became normal. Interferon-alpha was well tolerated and all children finished therapy. These findings indicate that a 6-mo course of interferon-alpha is effective in inducing a serological, biochemical and histological remission of disease in approximately 50% of children with chronic hepatitis B. 
Diagnostic utility of ventilation/perfusion lung scans in acute pulmonary embolism is not diminished by pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of prior cardiac or pulmonary disease upon the utility of ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scans in the diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism (PE). Ventilation/perfusion scans were evaluated among 365 patients with no prior cardiac or pulmonary disease and compared to V/Q scans in 526 patients with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease. Among patients with no prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, PE was present in 117 and PE was excluded in 248. Among patients with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, PE was present in 140 and excluded in 386. The positive predictive value for PE of high probability V/Q scans among patients with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 55 of 66 (83 percent), was not significantly lower than among patients without prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 50 of 54 (93 percent) (NS). The positive predictive value of low probability V/Q scans was similar with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 25 of 182 (14 percent), and without prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 17 of 113 (15 percent) (NS), as was the predictive value of near normal/normal V/Q scans, 2 of 51 (4 percent), vs 3 of 79 (4 percent) (NS). The sensitivity of high probability V/Q scans, with pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease and without, 55 of 140 (39 percent) vs 50 of 117 (43 percent), did not differ significantly. The specificity of high probability V/Q scans with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease and without, 375 of 386 (97 percent) vs 244 of 248 (98 percent) was also similar (NS). In conclusion, the diagnostic utility of V/Q scans for acute PE was not impaired by the presence of pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. Fewer patients, however, with no prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, had intermediate (indeterminate) V/Q scans. 
Decision for surgical management of perforation following endoscopic sphincterotomy. Duodenal perforation resulting from endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is a serious complication with a high mortality. Diagnosis is often problematic and the optimum treatment is controversial. Eight proven perforations occurred following 441 ES at University of Colorado Hospital, a rate of 1.8 per cent. Physical and laboratory findings were of little diagnostic value, whereas plain abdominal radiographs showed evidence of perforation in 86 per cent. All patients were operated on promptly after diagnosis of perforation. Delay in diagnosis of perforation beyond 24 hours in six patients was associated with a high morbidity and two deaths. Analysis of published series confirmed that delay in diagnosis and delay in operation after perforation were associated with a higher mortality rate than early diagnosis with or without operation. We recommend operative intervention in all patients with clinical evidence of perforation following ES. 
Effects of subarachnoid hemorrhage and a thromboxane A2 synthetase inhibitor on intracranial prostaglandins. The effects of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on intracranial prostaglandins (PGs) were studied in canines. Subarachnoid hemorrhage was produced by the "two hemorrhage" method. Basilar artery caliber and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the occipital cortex were reduced by 42% and 43% during delayed vasospasm, respectively. Once delayed vasospasm had developed, intravenous infusion of OKY-046, a selective inhibitor of thromboxane (TX) A2 synthetase, induced no significant change in angiographic vasospasm but caused a significant increase in rCBF. In delayed vasospasm, cortical levels of PGF2 alpha were significantly decreased, whereas plasma levels of PGF2 alpha and TXB2 in the transverse sinus were significantly increased. The intravenous infusion of OKY-046 in delayed vasospasm induced a significant increase in cortical PGF2 alpha and PGE in the occipital cortex, and caused a significant increase in plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and a significant decrease in plasma TXB2 in the transverse sinus. In delayed vasospasm, decreased cortical levels of PGF2 alpha may reflect a decrease in rCBF and increased plasma PGF2 alpha and TXB2 levels may reflect enhancement of intravascular coagulation. These PGs have very strong and various biological activities. The results suggest that SAH induces complicated changes of intracranial PGs and OKY-046 can improve these pathological changes. 
Reduction of myocardial infarct size by poloxamer 188 and mannitol in a canine model. Poloxamer 188 has been reported to inhibit thrombosis, decrease whole blood viscosity, and improve perfusion of damaged tissue. Mannitol has free radical scavenging capabilities that might contribute to myocardial salvage after ischemia. Because these agents appear to work in different ways, we studied their cardioprotective properties when they were used separately and in combination. After 75 minutes of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion, dogs received poloxamer 188 (48 mg/kg), mannitol (0.5 gm/kg), or both intravenously during an additional 15 minutes of LAD occlusion and for 45 minutes of reperfusion, whereas control dogs received an equal volume of saline solution. After surgery the animals were maintained for 24 hours and then killed. Areas of myocardial infarction (MI) and risk of infarction (R) were calculated by means of planimetric analysis of slices of myocardium stained with 1.5% triphenyltetrazolium and 0.5% Evans blue dye. The ratio of MI/R (mean +/- standard error of the mean) were: control, 25.6 +/- 1.8% (n = 10); poloxamer 188, 12.7 +/- 2.0% (n = 10); mannitol, 10.6 +/- 2.5% (n = 11); and poloxamer 188 plus mannitol, 8.0 +/- 4.1% (n = 10). Measurement of microvascular blood flow indicated a similar 86% to 91% reduction of blood flow to the area at risk in all treatment groups. Consequently both poloxamer 188 and mannitol appear to increase salvage of ischemic myocardium and a combination of the two may be more effective than either agent alone. 
A unified model of atrioventricular nodal conduction predicts dynamic changes in Wenckebach periodicity. The atrioventricular (AV) node responds in a complex fashion to changes in activation rate. A variety of approaches have been used to explain these dynamic AV nodal responses, but none has been able to account fully for AV nodal behavior. Three specific rate-dependent properties of the AV node have been described: 1) time-dependent recovery after excitation, 2) an effect of short cycles to advance recovery ("facilitation"), and 3) a gradual slowing of conduction in response to sustained, high-frequency activation ("fatigue"). We hypothesized that a model incorporating quantitative descriptors of all three processes might be able to account for a wide variety of AV nodal behaviors. Quantitative descriptors of AV nodal recovery, facilitation, and fatigue were developed based on AV nodal conduction changes during selective pacing protocols in seven autonomically blocked dogs. These descriptors were incorporated into a set of mathematical equations that define AV nodal conduction of any beat based on activation history. The equations were then applied to predict pacing-induced Wenckebach periodicity in each dog. Experimental data were obtained after nine to 19 step decreases in atrial cycle length into the Wenckebach zone in each animal. Observed behaviors included complex patterns of block, a progressive increase in the level of block over 5 minutes of rapid pacing, and periods of alternating patterns of block. The model accurately predicted the onset of AV block at each cycle length, the relation between conduction ratio and cycle length as a function of time, and the changing patterns of Wenckebach periodicity during sustained atrial pacing. All three terms of the model equation (describing recovery, facilitation, and fatigue) were essential to account fully for the observed behaviors. Elimination of AV nodal fatigue from the model resulted in failure to account for time-dependent changes in Wenckebach patterns, whereas exclusion of facilitation led to consistent overestimation of the degree of AV block at each cycle length. We conclude that a mathematical model incorporating terms to describe recovery, facilitation, and fatigue accurately predicts a wide range of Wenckebach-type behavior and that complex conduction patterns of the AV node can be fully accounted for by simple functional AV nodal properties. 
Characterization of childhood acute leukemia with multiple myeloid and lymphoid markers at diagnosis and at relapse. To define the clinical and biologic significance of childhood acute mixed-lineage leukemia diagnosed by stringent criteria, we studied 25 cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia expressing greater than or equal to 2 myeloid-associated antigens (My+ ALL), and 16 cases of acute myeloid leukemia expressing greater than or equal to 2 lymphoid associated antigens (Ly+ AML). These cases represented 6.1% of 410 newly diagnosed ALLs (two treatment protocols) and 16.8% of 95 AMLs (two protocols). T-lineage--associated antigens were identified in 9 of the My+ ALL cases and in 14 of those classified as Ly+ AML; all but 1 of the 19 cases that could be subclassified had an early thymocyte stage of differentiation. The My+ ALL cases had an increased frequency of French-American-British (FAB) L2 morphology (36%); the Ly+ AML cases were characterized by FAB M1 or M2 morphology, low levels of myeloperoxidase reactivity and combined populations of myeloperoxidase-positive large blasts and small blasts generally of hand-mirror morphology. Karyotypic abnormalities included t(9;22)(q34;q11) in three cases of My+ ALL, 11q23 translocations in two cases of My+ ALL, and 14q32 translocations in three My+ ALL and five Ly+ AML cases. Mixed-lineage expression lacked prognostic significance in either ALL or AML; however, the findings indicate that some patients with Ly+ AML may respond to prednisone, vincristine, and L-asparaginase after failing on protocols for myeloid leukemia. At relapse, two My+ ALLs had converted to AML and two Ly+ AMLs to ALL; one case in each group showed complete replacement of the original karyotype. Acute mixed-lineage leukemia does not adequately describe the heterogeneity of the cases identified in this study and should be replaced by a set of more restrictive terms that indicate the unique biologic features of these leukemias. 
Effects of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist DuP 753 on blood pressure and renal functions in spontaneously hypertensive PH dogs. A colony of genetic hypertensive dogs with systolic blood pressure of 140 to 220 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure greater than 100 mm Hg in the trained state was used. The objective of this study was to investigate the hemodynamic and renal effects of the novel angiotensin II receptor antagonist DuP 753 given intravenously to these dogs. Renal functions and blood pressure were measured 45 to 75 min after the intravenous administration of DuP 753 at 1, 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg and were compared to control (placebo) treatment. Arterial pressure was slightly but significantly and dose-dependently reduced by DuP 753. Glomerular filtration rate increased significantly in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly, effective renal plasma flow was dose-dependently increased. Filtration fraction was unchanged. Renal vascular resistance was significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner at 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg of DuP 753. DuP 753 increased fractional sodium excretion at all doses and increased fractional potassium excretion only at the highest doses. The vasopressor effects of angiotensin I and II were dose-dependently inhibited by DuP 753. These data show that DuP 753 has beneficial renal hemodynamic effects and lowers arterial pressure in this canine model of essential hypertension. 
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity in renovascular hypertension and primary aldosteronism. Previous studies, including our own, have demonstrated that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) is increased in patients with essential hypertension compared with normotensive subjects. However, the features of sympathetic nerve activity are still unknown in secondary hypertension. We examined MSNA in eight patients with renovascular hypertension and in 11 patients with primary aldosteronism. Twenty patients with essential hypertension and 20 normotensive subjects who were age-matched to the patients with renovascular hypertension and those with primary aldosteronism were also studied. The MSNA of a bundle of the tibial nerve was recorded by microneurography in supine subjects and expressed as both burst rate (bursts/min) and burst incidence (bursts/100 heart beats). Plasma renin activity and the plasma concentration of angiotensin II and aldosterone were also measured. MSNA was increased in the patients with renovascular hypertension compared with the patients with primary aldosteronism and those with essential hypertension and the normotensive subjects (p less than 0.01 for each). MSNA was decreased in the patients with primary aldosteronism compared with those with essential hypertension (p less than 0.01), and it was smaller than in the normotensive subjects (p less than 0.1). Furthermore, MSNA, plasma renin activity, and the plasma concentration of angiotensin II decreased significantly in five patients with renovascular hypertension 4-10 days after successful percutaneous renal angioplasty. Thus, the changes in MSNA seem to characterize the pathophysiology of renovascular hypertension and primary aldosteronism. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system may be involved in the increase in the central outflow of sympathetic nerve activity, thus exacerbating hypertension in patients with renovascular hypertension. 
The growth hormone, prolactin and TSH response to TRH and L-dopa in patients with hyperprolactinaemia and a normal-sized sella turcica may denote a pituitary adenoma. Forty-one patients with hyperprolactinaemia and suspected prolactinomas were studied. Growth hormone (GH) and thyrotropin (TSH) secretory patterns after thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) were affected in the majority of patients. The disturbances were observed regardless of tumour size as indicated by the radiological sella size. In patients with hyperprolactinaemia and normal-sized sella turcica, an abnormal GH and TSH response to TRH can be helpful in the diagnosis of a microadenoma. The hyperprolactinaemia per se and its effect on dopaminergic hypothalamic neurones may be the cause of the GH and TSH response. By contrast, many patients with macroprolactinomas showed insufficient GH secretory capacity. 
Progressive congestive heart failure. Ways to approach office management. Treatment of congestive heart failure depends on the cause, precipitating factors, and symptoms of the disease in each patient. Dr Kahn outlines the use of the three main types of pharmacologic agents given for heart failure--diuretics, vasodilators, and digoxin. He describes a stepwise regimen, whereby agents are added as needed to improve symptoms and prolong life. 
Increased plasma apolipoprotein(a) levels in IDDM patients with microalbuminuria. Patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) have a significantly increased risk of macrovascular disease, particularly if they have persistent proteinuria. To determine whether altered levels of apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)], the plasminogenlike glycoprotein of the potentially atherogenic lipoprotein(a); contribute to the increased risk of atherosclerosis, apo(a) levels were measured in 107 patients with IDDM and compared with nondiabetic control subjects and male elective coronary artery graft patients. Apo(a) levels were increased in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria (geometric mean 245 U/L, 95% confidence interval [CI] 142-427, n = 30) and albuminuria (mean 196 U/L, 95% CI 97-397, n = 18) with levels comparable to patients with coronary artery disease (mean 193 U/L, 95% CI 126-298, n = 40), which were higher than in the control group (mean 107 U/L, 95% CI 85-134, n = 140; P = 0.016). Apo(a) levels in diabetic patients without microalbuminuria (mean 86 U/L, 95% CI 63-116, n = 59) were comparable with the control population and less than in those with microalbuminuria (P less than 0.001) and albuminuria (P = 0.014). The elevated apo(a) levels found in patients with IDDM and increased urinary albumin loss may contribute to their heightened risk of macrovascular disease. 
Deglycosylation of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor is impaired in the faeces of patients with active inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease). 1. alpha 1-Proteinase inhibitor (alpha 1-antitrypsin) was excreted in the faeces of patients with inflammatory bowel disease in different molecular forms: Mr-51,000 and Mr-45,000 forms were widely found in the stools of patients with active disease, whereas a Mr-38,000 species was frequently recovered from healthy subjects and patients with quiescent disease (Mizon, Becuwe, Balduyck et al. Clin. Chem. 1988; 34, 2268-70). 2. N-Terminal sequencing of the Mr-38,000 form of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor, after SDS/PAGE and electrotransfer on polyvinyl difluoride membranes, showed that it differed from plasma alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor by the loss of 17 N-terminal amino acids. 3. Carbohydrate analysis of the isolated Mr-38,000 form revealed a total lack of neutral sugars. 4. In contrast, the Mr-51,000 form of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor is glycosylated and thus could be differentiated by virtue of its reactivity with concanavalin A. The analysis of 25 faecal extracts from patients with Crohn's disease allowed us to confirm that the presence of the glycosylated form of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor was closely related to the degree of inflammation. 5. From these data, it may be hypothesized that the hydrolytic activity of some glycosidases is greatly reduced in active Crohn's disease. 
Pattern of treatment failure following laser for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia: implications for follow-up protocol. In an effort to devise a rational protocol for the follow-up of patients who have had destructive treatment for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), an analysis has been performed of treatment failures following laser therapy in 2130 women treated between 1980-1989. Of this group, 1253 women have been followed up for 3 years or more and 380 for 6 years or more. There have been 119 treatment failures (5.6%), of which 71% of the women had the second lesion detected during the first year of follow-up, 24% during the second year, 3.3% during the third year, and 1.7% during the sixth year. In 18% of these 119, the second lesion was detected colposcopically in the presence of negative cytology. There were two cases of microinvasion and one frankly invasive lesion following laser, all diagnosed during the second year of follow-up. Our data suggest that if the first year of follow-up includes at least one colposcopic examination, some second lesions will be diagnosed in the presence of negative cytology. 
The potential utility of a rapid CK-MB assay in evaluating emergency department patients with possible myocardial infarction. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of a new rapid creatine kinase-MB (R-CK-MB) assay compared with a standard CK-MB (S-CK-MB) assay and to determine its potential use in the evaluation of emergency department patients with possible myocardial infarction. DESIGN: Retrospective patient identification with subsequent testing of excess sera for CK-MB and total CK using an identity-unlinked procedure. SETTING: Large, urban, teaching hospital ED. PARTICIPANTS: All adult patients with excess sera and one of several defined presentations chosen to identify those with possible myocardial ischemia or infarction. Patients with clearly documented noncardiac etiologies of their symptoms or signs were excluded. MAIN RESULTS: The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of 271 patient specimens for the R-CK-MB assay compared with the S-CK-MB assay were 100%, 96.8%, 75.0%, and 100%, respectively. The R-CK-MB assay was positive for 32 patients (11.8%). Of these, eight (25.0%) were admitted to unmonitored beds, and five (15.6%) were discharged home. All of these 13 patients had initial ECGs without evidence of ischemia or infarction. On follow-up, at least eight of the 13 had evidence of infarction. CONCLUSION: The R-CK-MB assay demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity compared with the S-CK-MB assay. When used for patients in whom a cardiac care unit admission is not considered, the rapid assay may identify some patients with unsuspected myocardial infarction and prevent inadvertent discharge or admission to unmonitored beds. 
Placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over trial of growth hormone treatment in prepubertal children with chronic renal failure. Stunted growth is a serious problem for children with chronic renal failure (CRF) despite normal endogenous growth hormone secretion and normal or elevated plasma concentrations of insulin-like growth factors (IGF) I and II. Biosynthetic growth hormone (GH) was given to 20 prepubertal children (eleven boys, nine girls; mean age 9.5 years, range 4-16) with CRF and severe growth retardation in a placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over trial. 6 months of subcutaneous injection of GH (4 IU/m2 per day) was either preceded or followed by 6 months of placebo injection. The patients had a full examination every 3 months. Sixteen children completed the study. Height velocity improved significantly with GH therapy (p less than 0.0001) and placebo (p less than 0.04), but the GH-induced height-velocity increase exceeded that of placebo by 2.9 cm per 6 months. There was a positive relationship between prestudy height velocity and height-velocity increase. Bone maturation was not affected. GH caused a significant increase in IGF-I and a moderate increase in IGF-II plasma concentrations. The pretreatment elevation of IGF-binding protein-1 decreased by almost 50% during GH therapy, while IGF-binding protein-3 increased significantly in concentration, although this increase was significantly smaller than the GH-induced increase in IGF-I. Fructosamine, lipid, and parathyroid concentrations remained constant. Renal function deterioration did not accelerate. Impressive height-velocity increase can be achieved with GH therapy in children with CRF and growth retardation without changes in renal function. Bone maturation appears unaffected suggesting improved final height. Treatment is best started before growth retardation becomes considerable. 
Intracranial extension of a naso-ethmoid schwannoma. A rare case of intracranial extension of a naso-ethmoid schwannoma is presented. Its subsequent removal with few sequelae confirmed the benign nature and good prognosis of the disease. 
Alpha-blocker therapy of hypertension. An unfulfilled promise. For various reasons, the alpha 1-receptor blocker prazosin has been used infrequently as initial therapy for hypertension. The introduction of additional agents of this class with properties different from prazosin provides slower onset of action, which should reduce the degree of first-dose and postural hypotension and a longer duration of action, which allows for once-a-day dosage. A summary of the published data on efficacy, side effects, and special properties of this class of agents indicates that they will probably be used more extensively, particularly because of their ability to improve lipid and glucose-insulin metabolism. 
Postmortem studies of the heart in three fatal cases of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To examine the hearts of individuals who died from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan, with particular attention paid to the coronary arteries, the neural structures, and the conduction system of the heart because of reported terminal disturbances of cardiac rhythm and conduction. STUDY MATERIAL: Three hearts fixed in neutral formalin and well preserved with all the relevant areas of conduction system intact. METHODS: Light microscopic examination of subserial sections of the sinus node, atrioventricular node and His bundle, coronary chemoreceptor and regional nerves, ganglia, and small coronary arteries. Routine stains used were Goldner trichrome and Verhoeff-van Gieson. RESULTS: Arterial abnormalities were numerous and primarily of two types: focal fibromuscular dysplasia causing moderate to severe narrowing, as well as endarteritis and panarteritis. Extensive examples of neuritis and ganglionitis were present throughout the heart, including the conduction system, where arterial abnormalities were also abundant. In the coronary chemoreceptor there were both old and new lesions comprising focal inflammation with degeneration as well as older areas of fibrotic destruction. Within the sinus node, areas of dense fibrosis replaced all nodal tissue. These abnormalities were similar in nature and extent in all three hearts. CONCLUSIONS: The pathologic lesions present in the coronary arteries, neural structures, and conduction system of the heart in patients who died from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome provide a suitable anatomic substrate for substantial cardiac electrical instability, including the occurrence of sudden death. In cases of unexplained cardiac electrical instability or sudden unexpected death an inquiry should be made about previous use of L-tryptophan. In patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, the possibility of cardiac electrical instability should be considered as part of long-range clinical management. 
Neurokinin and NMDA antagonists (but not a kainic acid antagonist) are antinociceptive in the mouse formalin model. While much evidence implicates substance P (SP), an endogenous neurokinin (NK), as a primary sensory transmitter of acute pain in mammalian spinal cord, its role in continuous (tonic) pain is less clear. Although glutamate is co-localized with SP in dorsal root ganglion neurons, its role in nociceptive processing is uncertain. While antagonists of NKs and excitatory amino acids (EAAs) have been found to be antinociceptive in some acute assays, they have not been tested against tonic pain. We hypothesize that: (1) NKs and EAAs contribute to signaling of tonic chemogenic nociception; and (2) interaction between NK and EAA systems is important in determining the perceived intensity of a continuous noxious stimulus. We therefore evaluated two NK antagonists ([D-Pro2,D-Trp7,9] SP (DPDT-SP, 0.26-6.6 nmoles, non-specific) and [D-Pro4, D-Trp7,9,10,Phe11]-SP(4-11) (DPDTP-octa, 1.6-12.3 nmoles, somewhat NK-1 selective], as well as DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (DL-AP5, NMDA antagonist, 0.05-1 nmole) and urethane (a kainic acid (KA) antagonist at 2.5 mumoles) for antinociceptive activity in the mouse formalin model. Administered intrathecally (i.t.), DL-AP5 and both NK antagonists were significantly antinociceptive while urethane (2.5 mumoles) and naloxone (2.7 nmoles) were inactive. A50 values for mean % analgesia, nmoles/mouse i.t. (95% CLs) were: DPDT-SP, 1.1 (0.79-1.6); DPDTP-octa, 3.9 (2.4-6.1); DL-AP5, 0.29 (0.16-0.71). The antinociception associated with 1.3 nmoles of DPDT-SP was not reversed by co-administering 2.7 nmoles of naloxone. Co-administration of 0.1 nmoles of DL-AP5 with either 1.3 nmoles of DPDT-SP or 3.3 nmoles of DPDTP-octa did not lead to additive antinociception. 
Cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis in total hip replacement. A theoretical analysis was performed regarding the cost-effectiveness in terms of lives saved (reduction of fatal pulmonary embolism [PE]) and in terms of money (dollars spent for prevention and treatment) of seven strategies in the management of venous thromboembolic disease in patients over 39 years of age undergoing elective total hip replacement (THR). Strikingly, this theoretical analysis suggests that low-dose warfarin combined with clinical surveillance of deep vein thrombosis would reduce the incidence of fatal PE from 20 per 1,000 patients to 4 per 1,000 patients and simultaneously reduce the charges for venous thromboembolic disease from $550,000 to about $400,000 per 1,000 patients. Based on this analysis, we strongly recommend this measure on a routine basis. Adding venography or duplex sonography routinely to this prophylactic regimen would, in this theoretical analysis, reduce the incidence of fatal PE from 4 per 1,000 patients to 0.15 per 1,000, but adds charges of $200,000 per extra life saved in the case of routine venography and $50,000 in the case of routine sonography. Low-dose warfarin prophylaxis combined with routine sonography does not generate more charges than no prophylaxis with no screening while drastically reducing the incidence of fatal PE from 20 to 0.3 per 1,000 patients. Where duplex sonography is not easily available, a 12-week postoperative course of low-dose warfarin for every patient with no routine screening will be efficacious in reducing fatal PE and as cost-effective. 
Cell-mediated immunologic responses and recurrent genital herpes in the guinea pig. Effects of glycoprotein immunotherapy. The specific immune alterations associated with HSV recurrences are ill defined although it appears that alterations in cell-mediated immune mechanisms are more likely associated with recurrent disease than humoral immunity. Immunization with HSV glycoproteins B and D (gBgD) after primary HSV infection has reportedly reduced the frequency of recurrences but the mechanisms remain unidentified. We therefore evaluated the effects of immunization with cloned gBgD on selected cell-mediated immune responses and their relationship to recurrent disease by using the guinea pig model of genital HSV-2 infection. In two experiments, immunization with gBgD + CFA on days 21 and 42 after HSV-2 inoculation significantly decreased the number of subsequent recurrent lesion days observed whereas CFA alone had no effect. Immunization with gBgD + CFA increased the lymphoproliferative and in vitro IL-2 response to gBgD more than to whole HSV-2 Ag preparations. Peak responses were observed 2 wk after the second immunization. The HSV-specific cytolytic response was also persistently increased beginning 1 wk after the first immunization. Analysis including both untreated and gBgD-immunized animals revealed that recurrent lesion days were inversely correlated to the IL-2 response to whole HSV-2 Ag (p less than 0.0001), the IL-2 response to gBgD (p = 0.0004), and the HSV-specific cytolytic response (p = 0.005 and 0.003 in two experiments, respectively). When the untreated group was analyzed separately, only the IL-2 response to whole HSV-2 Ag correlated to recurrences (p = 0.007). HSV glycoprotein immunization may increase IL-2 or other cytokines secreted by HSV-sensitized T cells increasing critical immune responses, such as NK- or lymphokine-activated killer-mediated cytolysis, that could eliminate the reactivated virus before the development of clinically apparent lesions. 
Memory and pain: tests of mood congruity and state dependent learning in experimentally induced and clinical pain. The associative network theory of memory [2] is outlined along with the concepts of mood congruity and state dependent learning. Two experiments are reported which investigate the occurrence of these effects where memory for pain is concerned. In experiment 1 the performance of 25 chronic pain patients was compared with that of 25 non-patient controls on a test involving both immediate and delayed recall of a mixed list of stimulus words of 3 types: pain-related, negative or neutral. No significant group differences were found in overall rates of immediate recall. As predicted, however, pain patients recalled more pain-related words than non-patient controls (P less than 0.001). On delayed recall the same significant group x word-type interaction was obtained (P less than 0.02), but in addition the non-patient controls recalled significantly more words overall (P less than 0.02). These results provide some evidence for the occurrence of a mood congruity effect. Experiment 2 investigated state dependent learning and mood congruity effects in experimentally induced pain. Twenty volunteer subjects were allocated to 1 of 4 conditions in which a wordlist (as in experiment 1) was presented following either a painful stimulus (cold pressor test) or a non-painful one (warm water) and was then recalled immediately following further exposure to stimulus conditions which were congruent with the original stimulus (warm/warm and cold/cold conditions) or non-congruent (warm/cold and cold/warm conditions). A 3-way split plot ANOVA yielded no significant main effects for group or word-type, but a significant interaction emerged between state at encoding and at recall (P less than 0.04). 
Chronic subcorneal pustulosis with vasculitis: a variant of generalized pustular psoriasis in black South Africans. A rare, but distinctive chronic eruption in six female black South Africans is reported. The original diagnosis of subcorneal pustular dermatosis of Sneddon and Wilkinson in these patients was refuted by the subsequent histological observation of both spongiform pustules and an underlying vasculitis. This may represent a previously undocumented form of generalized pustular psoriasis. 
Piezogenic wrist papules: a common and asymptomatic finding. The first description of piezogenic wrist papules is presented. Twenty-nine persons were examined; 76% had pedal papules and 86% had wrist papules. Piezogenic papules are a common, nonhereditary finding and are not secondary to an inherent connective tissue defect. 
Review of neurobehavioral assessment tools. Behavioral, cognitive, and memory deficits are frequently observed sequelae of brain injury. Yet in most critical care settings, neurologic assessment is limited to evaluation of arousal, pupillary response, orientation, and motor capability. Behavior, cognition, and memory are not routinely evaluated. Several brief, bedside assessment tools are reviewed. All may be used in the critical care setting to evaluate the type and extent of residual deficits in the neurologically impaired patient. Nursing implications, based on the evaluation of deficits, are also discussed. 
Spontaneous carotid dissection: duplex scanning in diagnosis and management. The clinical, duplex, and angiographic findings in six patients with seven spontaneous extracranial carotid artery dissections are reported. Four dissections resulted in internal carotid artery occlusion. These patients complained of ipsilateral headache followed by contralateral hemiplegia. The other three dissections involved the common carotid artery and resulted in dual (one true and one false) lumens. Two of these dissections were asymptomatic. All dissections were treated nonoperatively with anticoagulant therapy. Neurologic deficits improved or disappeared in all symptomatic patients. On follow-up studies, one of the four internal carotid occlusions completely resolved with normalization of the duplex examination. All three dual lumen dissections remained patent on serial studies. Diagnostic duplex characteristics, both conclusive and supportive, of carotid dissections are described. Duplex scanning is shown to be accurate in diagnosing and ideally suited for serially following spontaneous carotid dissections. 
The induction of epidermal ornithine decarboxylase following tape stripping is inhibited by a topical vitamin D3 analogue (MC903). The efficacy of MC903, a vitamin D3 analogue, in reducing hyperproliferation as determined by levels of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) was investigated in a double-blind study of 15 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. The lesions of psoriasis were treated for 8 weeks with MC903 in one of two different cream bases or with a placebo cream. Biopsies were taken before and after treatment. In addition an uninvolved area of skin was treated during the last 3 weeks and this as well as control areas were then sellotape stripped and biopsied after 8 h. Clinical improvement was seen in eight out of 11 patients treated with MC903 but there was no reduction in the level of ODC in psoriatic lesions after 8 weeks of treatment. The levels of ODC in the tape-stripped uninvolved skin after 3 weeks of treatment with MC903 averaged 22.5 +/- 4.2 pmol/min/mg protein as compared to 58.6 +/- 12.6 pmol/min/mg protein (P = 0.004). The trauma-induced induction of ODC activity was markedly inhibited by the application of MC903. 
Oral mucosal soft tissue necrosis caused by superinfection. Report of three cases. Three patients in whom flap necrosis developed after oral surgeries and antibiotic therapies were studied microbiologically by routine aerobic and anaerobic methods. In all cases the bacteria Enterobacter cloacae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Escherichia coli, and coagulase-negative penicillinase-producing staphylococci were resistant to the antibiotics used. These bacteria are frequent microorganisms of superinfection and were not found after the necrotic tissues had repaired. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of cutaneous neoplasms: clinicopathologic correlation. Recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been reported to be clinically useful, in selected cases, in patients with melanocytic skin lesions. This report describes good resolution, clinically useful MRI scans of squamous cell carcinoma, dermatofibroma, and primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma. The tumor depth measured by MRI was in excellent correlation with Breslow's depth measurements, indicating that MRI is probably the radiologic technique of choice for preoperative evaluation of the extent and depth of primary and recurrent skin tumors. This report also provides the authors' recommendations for obtaining optimal MRI images of cutaneous lesions. 
Dementing illness: the patient, caregiver and community. Care of the elderly patient with dementing illness involves not only the patient but also the family and other caregivers, and the community. An evaluation and treatment plan must go beyond the patient's immediate medical problems to examine the caregiver's needs and the community services available. 
Comparison of the electrical properties of arterial smooth muscle in normotensive rats and rats with deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt-induced hypertension: possible involvement of (Na(+)-K(+)-Cl-) co-transport. 1. Hypertension was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by left unilateral nephrectomy and deoxycorticosterone acetate--salt administration. After 5 weeks, arterial systolic blood pressure was significantly elevated in these animals (191.5 +/- 6.0 mmHg, mean +/- SD, n = 17) compared with age-matched, unoperated control animals (134.0 +/- 4.2 mmHg, n = 8, P less than 0.001). 2. The membrane potential of femoral artery vascular smooth muscle measured in vitro was -55.1 +/- 6.3 mV (mean +/- SD, n = 154) for normotensive and -50.8 +/- 5.7 mV (n = 82) for hypertensive animals. The difference in membrane potential was significant (P less than 0.001). 3. The relationship between the log of the extracellular K+ concentration and membrane potential was nonlinear over the extracellular K+ concentration range 2.5-20 mmol/l, and showed a small positive shift with hypertension. 4. Tenfold reductions in the extracellular concentrations of Na+ or Cl- resulted in a membrane potential hyperpolarization in vascular smooth muscle from normotensive animals (4.9 +/- 2.0 mV, n = 13 and 12.1 +/- 1.3 mV, mean +/- SD, n = 14, respectively). In vascular smooth muscle from hypertensive animals, the hyperpolarization in low-Na+ media was significantly increased to 12.2 +/- 2.6 mV (mean +/- SD, n = 5), but that in low-Cl- media was unaffected (2.7 +/- 1.6 mV, n = 6). 5. The loop diuretic, bumetanide (10 mumol/l), hyperpolarized the membrane potential in vascular smooth muscle from both normotensive and hypertensive rats, but not in low-Na+ or low-Cl- media. 
Antigen-presenting cells in essential fatty acid-deficient murine epidermis: keratinocytes bearing class II (Ia) antigens may potentiate the accessory cell function of Langerhans cells. Essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is a useful model for studying the role of (n-6) fatty acid metabolism in normal physiology. Because cutaneous manifestations are among the earliest signs of EFAD and because abnormalities in the distribution and function of tissue macrophages have been documented in EFAD rodents, we studied the distribution and function of Class II MHC (Ia) antigen-bearing cells in EFAD C57B1/6 mouse epidermis. Immunofluorescence studies revealed 1.9-9.6 (mean +/- SEM = 5.2 +/- 2.6) times more class II MHC (Ia) antigen-bearing epidermal cells in suspensions prepared from EFAD as compared to normal skin. Analysis of epidermal sheets demonstrated similar numbers of dendritic Ia+ and NLDC145+ cells in EFAD and normal epidermis, however. This discrepancy occurred because some keratinocytes in EFAD epidermal sheets expressed class II MHC (Ia) antigens, whereas keratinocytes in normal mouse epidermis did not. Two-color flow cytometry confirmed that all Ia+ cells in normal epidermis are Langerhans (Ia+ NLDC145+) cells, whereas Ia+ cells in EFAD epidermis are comprised of Langerhans cells and a subpopulation of keratinocytes (Ia+ NLDC145-). Similar levels of Ia antigens were expressed on EFAD and normal Langerhans cells. EFAD and normal epidermal cells were also compared in several in vitro assays of accessory cell function. Epidermal cells prepared from EFAD C57B1/6 mice present the protein antigen DNP-Ova to primed helper T cells more effectively than epidermal cells prepared from normal animals. EFAD epidermal cells are also more potent stimulators of T cells in primary and secondary allogeneic mixed lymphocyte-epidermal cell reactions than normal epidermal cells. The functional differences between EFAD and normal epidermal cells do not appear to result from increased cytokine release or decreased prostaglandin production by EFAD epidermal cells. In view of these findings and the observation that the antigen-presenting cell activity of EFAD epidermal cells correlates with the number of Ia+ keratinocytes in epidermal cell preparations, Ia+ keratinocytes (in the presence of Langerhans cells) may potentiate cutaneous immune responses in vitro and perhaps in vivo as well. These results also suggest that (n-6) fatty acids or metabolites of (n-6) fatty acids are involved in regulating the expression of class II MHC (Ia) antigens by keratinocytes in vivo. 
Bilateral sequential lung transplantation: the procedure of choice for double-lung replacement. We recently described a technique for bilateral sequential lung transplantation that replaces the en bloc double-lung operation, a procedure that was accompanied by frequent problems with airway healing. Twenty-seven patients have undergone 28 bilateral sequential lung transplantations over the past 14 months. Eighteen patients had transplantation because of end-stage emphysema; 6, cystic fibrosis; and 1 each, obliterative bronchiolitis, usual interstitial pneumonitis with pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis. Cardiopulmonary bypass was used electively in the first 5 patients until it was recognized that the procedure could be done safely without it, and in only 3 additional recipients has it been employed. Mean ischemic time for the first lung was 276 +/- 43 minutes and for the second lung, 410 +/- 64 minutes. There have been five deaths, three in the postoperative period (11% operative mortality) and two late. The other patients are alive and well and do not require oxygen 2 to 15 months after transplantation. Mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second rose from 16% +/- 8% of predicted to 84% +/- 17% at 12 weeks. Six-minute walk values increased from a mean of 251 +/- 91 m to 666 +/- 42 m at 24 weeks. The excellent exposure afforded to both hemithoraces by the thoracosternotomy incision and the rare need of cardiopulmonary bypass have allowed us to offer the option of transplantation to patients who formerly would have been turned down because of previous pulmonary resection or pleurectomy. On four occasions, ventilator-dependent patients underwent successful transplantation. 
Microvessel derived endothelial cell isolation, adherence, and monolayer formation for vascular grafts. MVECs can be isolated from animal and human fat in quantities and in a pure enough form to produce a cell-lined vascular graft. In animal studies grafts treated with these cells are associated with prolongation of graft patency. In human implants definitive expression factor VIII related antigen cells has been performed on an MVEC treated graft at 9 months. Further studies will be necessary to provide further insight into the healing and long-term behavior of these grafts, both with respect to the thrombogenicity of the surface as well as the influence on anastomotic hyperplasia. 
Stroke in patients treated with thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The thrombosis in myocardial infarction clinical trial and a review of placebo-controlled trials. The frequency of stroke among patients in six recent placebo-controlled trials of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction is reviewed. Three trials used streptokinase and three used tissue plasminogen activator as the thrombolytic agent. While thrombolytic therapy greatly reduces the morbidity and mortality of acute myocardial infarction, it increases the rate of intracerebral hemorrhage. 
Perinatal hepatitis B virus infection caused by antihepatitis Be positive maternal mononuclear cells. To investigate the infectivity of hepatitis B virus (HBV) from mothers to their newborn offspring, HBV-DNA in plasma and peripheral mononuclear cells from 28 antihepatitis Be positive, hepatitis B surface antigen positive carrier mothers was examined by a highly sensitive polymerase chain reaction/Southern hybridisation technique. HBV specific DNA was detected in three maternal mononuclear cell samples, but was absent in plasma. Two of four infants born to the three mothers with HBV-DNA positive mononuclear cells developed acute or fulminant hepatitis within three months after birth. Two infants were effectively prevented from infection with HBV by combined hepatitis B immunoglobulin/HBV vaccine administration. The 25 infants born to the HBV-DNA negative mothers were free of HBV infection within the next seven months to 3.5 years. These results suggest that latent infection with HBV in maternal mononuclear cells is responsible for perinatal HBV infection. 
Angiographically assessed coronary arterial patency and reocclusion in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with anistreplase: results of the anistreplase reocclusion multicenter study (ARMS). In this open multicenter study, 156 patients with acute myocardial infarction received 30 U of anistreplase intravenously over 5 minutes within 4 hours of the onset of chest pain. The patency of the infarct-related vessel was determined by coronary angiography 90 minutes after anistreplase treatment, and also 24 hours after treatment, in patients with a patent infarct-related vessel at 90 minutes, to assess the reocclusion rate. The investigators categorized the infarct-related vessel as patent or occluded, and 2 independent cardiologists graded the infarct-related vessel according to the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) perfusion criteria. At the 90-minute assessment, 106 of 145 evaluable patients (73%) had patent infarct-related vessels, and 39 of 145 (27%) had occluded infarct-related vessels. Of the 139 independently assessed patients, 98 (71%) had TIMI grades 2 or 3 and 41 (29%) had TIMI grades 0 or 1. At the 24-hour assessment, 98 of 102 patients (96%) had a patent infarct-related vessel, and reocclusion had occurred in 4 of 102 patients (4%). Of the 94 independently assessed patients 90 (96%) had TIMI grades 2 or 3, and 4 (4%) had TIMI grades 0 or 1. The reliability of noninvasive parameters as indicators of achieved patency of the infarct-related vessel was estimated by means of correlation with patency assessed by coronary angiography. A significant correlation of 0.62 was found. The patency rate of 71 to 73% after use of anistreplase in patients with acute myocardial infarction corresponds with findings in earlier studies. The low reocclusion rate of 4% after use of anistreplase probably reflects the prolonged action of anistreplase. 
Angiographic vasospasm and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We studied adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and the associated release of thromboxane B2 in 49 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in relation to angiographic vasospasm. Postoperative cerebral angiography was performed less than or equal to 3 (median 1) days after surgery for an aneurysm 5-14 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Correspondingly, one sample from each patient was taken within 24 hours either before or after angiography. The occurrence of severe as well as diffuse, moderate, or severe angiographic vasospasm was associated with the presence of delayed cerebral ischemia (p less than 0.05). Patients with diffuse angiographic vasospasm had significantly higher (p less than 0.05) values for thromboxane B2 release than the others, even after adjustment by the clinical grades on admission and before surgery, the timing of surgery, the time from subarachnoid hemorrhage to angiography and blood sampling, and nimodipine therapy. Severe and diffuse angiographic vasospasm were also associated with poor outcome at 1 year (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that augmented release of platelet thromboxane may be involved in the pathogenesis of vasospasm in large cerebral arteries. 
Herpes simplex virus DNA in occult lesions: demonstration by the polymerase chain reaction. Herpes simplex virus DNA was identified by the polymerase chain reaction with primers specific for the herpes DNA polymerase gene. A herpes-specific amplimer was detected in two of three cases in which the clinical and histologic features were inconclusive. 
The present status of akathisia. Akathisia is a common and distressing side effect of antipsychotic and some other psychotropic medications. This paper reviews the current state of knowledge of its clinical features, pathophysiology, and treatment. Restless legs syndrome and akathisia associated with Parkinson's disease are discussed in so far as they help understand drug-induced akathisia. The complexity of the disorder, and the difficulty in characterizing and quantifying it, may explain why researchers have relatively neglected akathisia for so long. The recent upsurge of research interest promises the hope of a better understanding of its pathophysiology so that effective therapy may result. 
Videofluoroscopy in elderly patients with aspiration: importance of evaluating both oral and pharyngeal stages of deglutition. Oropharyngeal functional impairment increases with age so that radiologists frequently are asked to determine the cause of aspiration in elderly patients. Neuromuscular and cognitive impairment often make it difficult to perform and interpret videofluoroscopic deglutition examinations in these patients. We retrospectively reviewed the barium swallow examinations in 50 elderly patients (mean age, 87 years) who were known to aspirate. We looked for specific patterns of oropharyngeal dysfunction that resulted in bolus misdirection. Analysis revealed that aspiration was due to abnormalities of the oral stage in 23, pharyngeal stage in 10, and both stages in 17. Dysfunction in the oral stage was due to ingestion of large volumes or rapid acquisition rates in nine, failure of containment during processing (bolus manipulation) in 18, and dissociation of lingual delivery and swallowing initiation in the transitional phase in 13. Dysfunction in the pharyngeal stage was due to incomplete transport (bolus retention) in 21 and defective closure of the laryngeal vestibule in 11. No significant relationship between conditions known to cause oropharyngeal dysfunction (dementia, stroke, Parkinson disease, disuse deconditioning) and the specific pattern of dysfunction was identified. These results indicate that an accurate and valid assessment of oropharyngeal dysfunction in elderly patients with aspiration is possible if specific patterns of dysfunction are sought. Our study indicates the importance of evaluating the oral and pharyngeal stages of deglutition in elderly patients who aspirate. 
Role of basic fibroblast growth factor in revascularization of rabbit tracheal autografts. Despite omentopexy of the bronchial anastomosis, donor airway ischemia remains a problem after lung transplantation. This study examined the hypothesis that surface abrasion and topical application of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) would enhance omental revascularization of trachea in a rabbit heterotopic autograft model. Tracheal segments were excised, primary tracheal anastomoses performed, and the segments placed in the peritoneal cavity wrapped in omentum. Animals were randomized to one of six groups according to tracheal segment treatment: control, surgical abrasion, Surgicel wrap with topical bFGF, Surgicel wrap with bFGF vehicle, Gelfoam wrap with bFGF, and topical bFGF alone. One week later, animals were heparinized, perfused with Aquablak dye, and killed. Tracheal segments were excised and sectioned for light microscopic quantitative assessment of viability and dye perfusion. There was no significant improvement in viability or perfusion between abraded tracheal segments or segments treated with bFGF/Gelfoam or bFGF alone when compared with control segments. Airways wrapped in Surgicel had significantly greater ischemic injury compared with the control group, regardless of bFGF application. Neither surgical abrasion nor topical bFGF increased omental revascularization of transplanted tracheal segments after 7 days. 
Ventricular cerebrospinal fluid eosinophilia in children with ventriculoperitoneal shunts. To determine the significance of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) eosinophilia, the charts of 106 patients treated with shunt-related procedures during the calendar year 1985 were reviewed. Sixty-nine patients presented for a shunt revision; their charts were retrospectively reviewed from the time of shunt insertion until January, 1988. The remaining 37 patients had a ventriculoperitoneal shunt inserted during the study period and were subsequently followed to January, 1988. A total of 558 shunt-related procedures were performed on these patients during the study period, with a mean follow-up period of 6.9 years. The infection rate was 3.8%. Eosinophilia was diagnosed when eosinophils accounted for 8% or more of the total CSF white blood cell count. Ventricular CSF eosinophilia occurred in 36 patients sometime during their clinical course. These 36 patients required a mean of 8.5 shunt revisions, while the remaining patients required a mean of 2.5 revisions (p less than 0.001). Shunt infections were also more frequent in patients with eosinophilia (p less than 0.01). In no case was peripheral eosinophilia or a parasitic infection present. This study demonstrates that CSF eosinophilia is common in children with shunts. Children with this laboratory finding will experience more shunt failures. In addition, the new appearance of eosinophilia in the CSF of a patient with a shunt in place suggests the possibility of a shunt infection. 
Transfer of genetic epilepsy by embryonic brain grafts in the chicken. In the Fayoumi chicken, a spontaneous recessive autosomal mutation (F.Epi) is responsible for high susceptibility to seizures that are especially inducible by intermittent light stimulation. Substitution of defined areas of the encephalic neuroepithelium in normal chicken embryos at 2 days of incubation by their counterparts from homozygous F.Epi embryos generates the epileptic phenotype in the chimeras. It was found that grafting primordia of both prosencephalon and mesencephalon of homozygous F.Epi birds is necessary and sufficient for transfer of the full disease. When grafted alone, the homozygous F.Epi prosencephalon, although showing the typical epileptic interictal electroencephalogram, does not allow the complete epileptic seizures to occur in the hosts. Grafts of mesencephalon and/or rhombencephalon modify neither the behavior nor the electroencephalographic pattern of the recipient chickens. Cooperation of forebrain and midbrain activities is therefore required to yield epileptic seizures in this model. 
Vascular complications of cardiac catheterization. Femoral artery injury after diagnostic and therapeutic cardiac catheterization is a frequently encountered clinical problem. This study reviews 150 femoral artery injuries that occurred in 16,350 patients over a 5-year period. A prospective computerized cardiac catheterization data bank was used to determine significant risk factors associated with the occurrence of vascular injury. Logistic regression analysis revealed that congestive heart failure, female gender, and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or valvuloplasty procedure were significantly associated with occurrence of vascular injury. Greater age, smaller body surface area, and smaller weight were also associated with injury. Recommendations for management include an aggressive approach to obstruction even if local vascular reconstruction is required. False aneurysms are studied by ultrasonography, and small ones may be observed expectantly. Larger aneurysms and aneurysms that persist beyond a few days are managed by use of general or regional anesthesia and by gaining proximal control of the iliac artery. Arteriovenous fistulas resulting from catheterization are rarely hemodynamically significant and often close spontaneously. Thus repair should be delayed. 
Study of the seminal vesicles in acute epididymitis. Although it has been suggested that seminal vesiculitis is present in patients with epididymitis, it has not been proven. We performed rectal ultrasound assessment of the seminal vesicles in 18 consecutive patients with epididymitis. The seminal vesicles on the same side as the epididymitis was significantly enlarged in 75% of cases; 92% of these enlarged vesicles returned to normal size in 12 weeks. A persistently enlarged seminal vesicle was associated with unresolved epididymitis, and further bacteriological studies in these cases demonstrated continued Chlamydia infection in some patients over 35 years of age. 
Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis B screening in a mental health institution. In 1982, the Ohio Department of Health Screening established guidelines for hepatitis B screening and vaccination for intermediate mental health care facilities. The present study was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of these guidelines. Data from an intermediate mental health care institution in Champaign/Urbana, Illinois, were used. The analysis considered the direct costs and benefits accrued over a 3-year period and a range of transmission rates. At a 3-year transmission rate of 0.030, the screening and vaccination policy cost $7300 per case of hepatitis B avoided (or $345,800 per hepatitis B fatality avoided). At a more likely 3-year transmission rate of 0.271, the screening and vaccination policy cost $300 per case of hepatitis B avoided (or $12,100 per hepatitis B fatality avoided). Either way, the active prevention policy compares very well with the amounts of money spent by the US Government on other life-saving programs. A general cost-effectiveness model is given that can be adapted for institution-specific analyses at other mental health care facilities. 
Is the pressure rate quotient a predictor or indicator of myocardial ischemia as measured by ST-segment changes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery? Perioperative myocardial ischemia is associated with an increased risk of perioperative myocardial infarction (PMI). Several attempts have been made to define intraoperative hemodynamic predictors of myocardial ischemia. In a canine preparation with coronary stenosis, a pressure rate quotient (PRQ = mean arterial pressure/heart rate) less than one (PRQ less than 1) indicated subendocardial myocardial ischemia. The authors tested this hypothesis in patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft operation (CABG), using electrocardiogram (ECG) ST-segment changes (leads II/V5) to diagnose myocardial ischemia. Sixty (n = 60) patients having CABG surgery were prospectively studied before initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass. Calibrated ECG leads II and V5 (diagnostic mode) were monitored continuously and recorded with the use of a Hewlett-Packard computer ST-segment analyzer. In addition, arterial and pulmonary artery pressures were monitored. Ischemia was defined as new-onset ST deviation (greater than or equal to 1 mm from the baseline ECG). ECG and hemodynamic data were stored at 2-min intervals for subsequent computer analysis. Serial creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) X MB (%) determinations and 12-lead ECGs were collected for the initial 3 postoperative days. Of the 3,463 intervals (2 min) available for study, 3,322 (96%) were satisfactorily recorded for 60 patients. Ischemia occurred during 65 intervals in 9 patients (9 of 60), of which only 34% (22 of 65) were associated with a PRQ less than 1 (P less than 0.01). In contrast, there were 466 intervals during which PRQ was less than 1, but without ECG evidence of ischemia. 
An evaluation of multiple clinical variables for hypoxia during colonoscopy. One hundred consecutive patients undergoing routine colonoscopy were evaluated for changes in arterial oxygen saturation levels. All of the patients were monitored with the Nellcor N-200 pulse oximeter (Nellcor Incorporated) by finger probe and received supplemental oxygen when SaO2 levels decreased below 90 per cent. Forty patients demonstrated a decrease in SaO2 to less than 90 per cent after intravenous sedation but prior to colonoscopy, 14 patients demonstrated a decrease in SaO2 to less than 90 per cent during colonoscopy, and 46 patients maintained SaO2 levels greater than 90 per cent at all times. No statistical differences were found when these three groups were compared for age, body surface area, drug dosage, smoking history and a history of pre-existing hypertension, diabetes, arrhythmias, angina or myocardial infarction and pulmonary disease. These data indicate that all patients undergoing colonoscopy should be placed on supplemental oxygen. We further recommend continuous cardiac and pulse oximetry monitoring when available. 
Solvent-associated olfactory dysfunction: not a predictor of deficits in learning and memory. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to evaluate associations between olfactory dysfunction and aberrations in learning and memory after chronic occupational exposure to mixed hydrocarbon solvents. METHOD: This was a cross-sectional, epidemiologic study of 187 paint manufacturing workers. The authors administered quantitative tests of olfactory function (the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test) and neurobehavioral function (eight computer- and examiner-administered tests of learning and memory) to workers for whom detailed information was available on lifetime occupational exposure to solvents. RESULTS: Olfactory function test scores were positively correlated with performance on seven of eight of the tests of learning and memory in bivariate analyses. After adjustment for important confounding variables (i.e., age, vocabulary score, and cumulative exposure to hydrocarbon solvents) with multiple linear regression, olfactory function scores predicted performance only on the Wechsler Memory Scale Delayed Logical Memory test. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the data did not reveal that olfactory dysfunction was correlated with decrements in various memory functions. 
Dysplastic nevi as risk markers of sporadic (nonfamilial) melanoma. A case-control study. The melanoma risk associated with dysplastic nevi outside the context of familial melanoma was studied by the case-control method. One hundred five newly diagnosed incident melanoma cases with negative family histories for familial melanoma and 181 controls (frequency matched for race, age, and sex) were studied by personal interview and cutaneous examination. The prevalence of dysplastic nevi was 41 (39%) of 105 in the cases and 13 (7%) of 181 in the controls. The odds ratio for dysplastic nevi by multiple logistic regression analysis simultaneously correcting for age, sex, eye color, hair color, actinic damage, freckles, and total number of nondysplastic nevi was 6.8 (95% confidence interval, 2.7, 16.9). This study supports the significance of dysplastic nevi as markers of increased risk for nonfamilial melanoma. 
Experience in the surgical treatment of 331 patients with pulmonary hydatidosis. Echinococcus disease is prevalent in Chile, with a rate of occurrence of 8.2 per 100,000. During a 15-year-period (1970 to 1985) we operated on 331 patients for pulmonary hydatidosis. Chest roentgenography was the main method of diagnosis. Among the total of 508 surgical procedures performed, pulmonary cystectomy was the most common (61.4%), whereas pulmonary resection was used in 31.4% of patients. The arc 5 test was used to confirm the diagnosis. Results were positive in 85% of the patients in whom it was done. There were 12.9% immediate postoperative complications in 12.9%, with late complications occurring in 4.10% and an overall mortality rate of 4.21%. These data suggest that hydatid cyst is still a common disease in our country, causing an important number of hospital admissions and a high percentage of complications. 
Devine exclusion for unresectable carcinoma of the stomach. Between July 1986 and July 1988, Devine exclusion was performed in 20 patients with unresectable carcinoma of the gastric antrum. All 20 patients presented with repeated vomiting. On endoscopy, 16 patients had complete gastric outlet obstruction while the remainder manifested significant gastric outlet stenosis. There was no hospital mortality. All except two patients could take an oral diet after surgery until their demise. Devine exclusion is safe and effective in relieving gastric outlet obstruction and is not associated with prolonged delay in return of gastric emptying. 
Neurologic disorders and dermatologic manifestations in HIV-infected children. Cutaneous manifestations of HIV infections in childhood are common but are not the dermatologic lesions associated with HIV infection in adults. For example, Kaposi's sarcoma, a common finding in adults with AIDS, is rare in children. Other cutaneous manifestations, including bacterial and fungal lesions and viral exanthems, are common in children with AIDS and can be atypical and severe. Because 90% of the pediatric AIDS population acquires the virus via maternal transmission to the fetus, a dysmorphic syndrome associated with intrauterine infection has been described. Physicians caring for and evaluating pediatric patients at risk for AIDS should be aware of these dermatologic manifestations, so that early detection and treatment can be instituted to reduce the morbidity of the complication of HIV infection. 
Double-outlet right ventricle: morphologic demonstration using nuclear magnetic resonance imaging. Sixteen patients with double-outlet right ventricle, aged 1 week to 29 years (median 5 months), were studied with a 1.5 tesla nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging scanner. Two-dimensional echocardiography was performed in all patients. Thirteen patients underwent angiography, including nine who underwent subsequent surgical correction. Three patients underwent postmortem examination. Small children and infants were scanned inside a 32 cm diameter proton head coil. Multiple 5 mm thick sections separated by 0.5 mm and gated to the patient's electrocardiogram were acquired with a spin-echo sequence and an echo time of 30 ms. A combination of standard and oblique imaging planes was used. Imaging times were less than 90 min. The NMR images were technically unsuitable in one patient because of excessive motion artifact. In the remaining patients, the diagnosis of double outlet right ventricle was confirmed and correlated with surgical and postmortem findings. The NMR images were particularly valuable in demonstrating the interrelations between the great arteries and the anatomy of the outlet septum and the spatial relations between the ventricular septal defect and the great arteries. Although the atrioventricular (AV) valves were not consistently demonstrated, NMR imaging in two patients identified abnormalities of the mitral valve that were not seen with two-dimensional echocardiography. In one patient who had a superoinferior arrangement of the ventricles, NMR imaging was the most useful imaging technique for demonstrating the anatomy. In patients with double-outlet right ventricle, NMR imaging can provide clinically relevant and accurate morphologic information that may contribute to future improvement in patient management. 
Nerve growth factor rapidly stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of phospholipase C-gamma 1 by a kinase activity associated with the product of the trk protooncogene. Nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes the survival and differentiation of specific populations of neurons. The molecular mechanisms by which cells respond to NGF are poorly understood, but two clues have emerged recently. First, NGF rapidly stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of several unidentified proteins in the NGF-responsive pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 [Maher, P. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85, 6788-6791]. Second, the protein-tyrosine kinase encoded by the protooncogene trk (p140trk), a member of the receptor class of tyrosine kinases, becomes activated and phosphorylated on tyrosine after NGF treatment of PC12 cells [Kaplan, D. R., Martin-Zanca, D. & Parada, L. F. (1991) Nature (London) 350, 158-160]. We now report that NGF rapidly induces tyrosine phosphorylation of phospholipase C-gamma 1 (PLC-gamma 1), and we present evidence that the responsible tyrosine kinase is either p140trk or a closely associated protein. Treatment of responsive cells with NGF elicited phosphorylation of PLC-gamma 1 on tyrosine and serine. PLC-gamma 1 immunoprecipitated from NGF-stimulated cells was phosphorylated in vitro by coprecipitating protein kinase activity, and the phosphorylations occurred principally on tyrosine. The responsible kinase could be depleted from cellular lysates by antibodies specific for p140trk. This procedure also depleted a 140-kDa protein that normally coprecipitated with PLC-gamma 1 and became phosphorylated on tyrosine in vivo in response to NGF. Analysis of tryptic peptides from PLC-gamma 1 indicated that the residues phosphorylated in vitro by p140trk-associated kinase activity were largely congruent with those phosphorylated in vivo after NGF treatment. Our findings identify PLC-gamma 1 as a likely substrate for the trk-encoded tyrosine kinase, and they provide a link between NGF-dependent activation of p140trk and the stimulation of intracellular second messenger pathways. 
Genetic basis for p53 overexpression in human breast cancer. Overexpression of an activated form of the p53 protein may be involved in neoplastic transformation. We found widespread overexpression of p53 by immunohistochemical staining in 11 (22%) of 49 primary invasive human breast cancers. Northern blot analysis showed that this overexpression was not due to an increase in the steady-state level of p53 mRNA. The p53 gene was directly sequenced in 7 of these tumors with elevated levels of the protein and, in each case, a mutation that altered the coding sequence for p53 was found in a highly conserved region of the gene. Whereas 4 of these tumors contained only a mutant p53 allele, the other 3 tumors exhibited coding sequences from both a mutant and a wild-type allele. p53 mutations have previously been correlated with allelic loss of part of chromosome 17p that contains the p53 locus. Examination of all 49 breast tumors revealed a 61% frequency of deletion at or near the p53 locus. However, the presence of allelic deletion did not correlate with overexpression of the protein. Six tumors that were deleted but did not express high levels of the protein were sequenced and all retained a wild-type p53 allele. In this series of human breast cancers, overexpression of the p53 protein, not allelic loss on chromosome 17p, was always associated with mutation of the p53 gene. 
Long-term follow-up after sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia: Causes, pump failure, and empiric antiarrhythmic therapy that modify survival. We analyzed the actuarial cardiac mortality rate of 295 consecutive patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia who were referred to us between 1978 and 1988. Patients were divided into four groups: group I of 156 patients with coronary disease, group II of 55 patients with nonischemic left ventricular disease, group III of 65 patients with right ventricular disease, and group IV of 19 patients without detectable heart disease. Patients were treated empirically according to a prospective schema: (1) class I antiarrhythmic drugs, (2) in case of recurrence of ventricular tachycardia: amiodarone or beta-blockers, (3) in case of recurrence of ventricular tachycardia: drug combinations or surgery. The mean follow-up duration was 61 +/- 40 months after the first occurrence of ventricular tachycardia, and the clinical outcome was known in 67.5% of patients at 5 years. The actuarial mortality rates were considerably higher in groups I and II compared with those in groups III and IV (p less than 0.01). The mortality rate was slightly higher in group I than in group II (p less than 0.05). In groups I and II, actuarial mortality rate were much higher when left ventricular ejection fraction was less than 0.30 (p less than 0.01). Comparisons between treatments showed no difference in actuarial mortality rates in patients with ventricular tachycardia and left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 0.30. 
WT1 mutations contribute to abnormal genital system development and hereditary Wilms' tumour. Wilms' tumour (WT), aniridia, genitourinary abnormalities and mental retardation form a symptom group (WAGR syndrome) associated with hemizygous deletions of DNA in chromosome band 11p13 (refs 1,2). However, it has not been clear whether hemizygosity at a single locus contributes to more than one phenotype. The tumour suppressor gene for Wilms' tumour, WT1, has been characterized: it is expressed at high levels in the glomeruli of the kidney, as well as the gonadal ridge of the developing gonad, the Sertoli cells of the testis and the epithelial and granulosa cells of the ovary, suggesting a developmental role in the genital system in addition to the kidney. We now report constitutional mutations within the WT1 genes of two individuals with a combination of WT and genital abnormalities as evidence of a role for a recessive oncogene in mammalian development. 
Treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia in a renal allograft recipient: implications of cyclosporin immunosuppressive treatment. The clinical effects of cyclosporin were evaluated during cytotoxic treatment in a 61 year old man with acute myeloid leukaemia. He had required a renal transplant 18 months before presenting with acute myeloid leukaemia (FAB subtype M4). He had received cyclosporin 3.5-4.0 mg/kg daily to maintain a plasma cyclosporin concentration of 75-150 ng/ml. Cyclosporin was continued during induction chemotherapy with daunorubicin, cytarabine, and 6-thioguanine (DAT). He had fever and oropharyngeal candidiasis that was unresponsive to anti-bacterial drugs but responsive to systemic amphotericin. Bone marrow examination 14 days after chemotherapy showed complete haematological remission. Subsequently he tolerated consolidation treatment with DAT with no serious complications. Unfortunately he developed fatal septicaemia following a second consolidation with mitozantrone and cytarabine. Inhibition of P-glycoprotein activity by cyclosporin may not significantly increase the toxicity of aggressive chemotherapeutic regimens, and as benefit may be achieved by this approach further clinical evaluation is justified. 
The detection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in HBsAG negative individuals with primary liver cancer. The importance of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in the development of primary liver cancer has been established by epidemiological studies. However, the evidence for a direct role of the virus in liver carcinogenesis is still tentative. In addition, the findings of HBV DNA sequences in HBsAg-negative subjects with liver cancer has been reported, although it is controversial. Here we report the use of the polymerase chain reaction to detect HBV DNA in the serum and liver of HBsAg-negative patients. This technique allows both for the detection and cloning of HBV variants. In addition, the demonstration of HBV DNA and RNA molecules in HCC of HBsAg-negative individuals as determined by standard techniques reinforces the role of HBV in the pathogenesis of this tumor. 
Mycotic aortic aneurysm infected by Clostridium septicum--a case history. The authors describe a sixty-seven-year-old hypertensive, diabetic man with a mycotic abdominal aortic aneurysm infected with Clostridium septicum. The patient had colonic polyps but no malignant disease. They could find only one other report of a mycotic aneurysm infected with C. septicum. In that case, as in most other cases of C. septicum bacteremia, the patient had gastrointestinal cancer. Their case suggests that treatment for a clostridial infection should be considered in patients with known gastrointestinal disease, signs and symptoms of sepsis, and abdominal pain. Conversely, patients known to have a C. septicum infection should be evaluated for gastrointestinal lesions. 
Hormonal and local factors in hypertension. The cause of primary (essential) hypertension remains unknown, but a number of circulating hormones and endothelium-derived factors are probably involved. This review summarizes recent evidence on the roles of hyperinsulinemia, the renin-angiotensin system, atrial natriuretic factor, and three endothelium-derived factors--prostacyclin, endothelium-derived relaxing factor, and endothelin. 
Cauda equina compression associated with breast cancer. A case study in differential diagnosis. The determination of the etiology of spinal cord compression in cancer patients is essential for appropriate therapy. Patients with metastatic disease are not immune to the development of superimposed nonmalignant disease. Although metastatic epidural compression may occur in up to 9% of breast cancer patients, care must be taken to rule out other nonmetastatic lesions causing compression. The association of concurrent breast carcinoma and a spinal neurilemoma simulating a metastatic lesion seems not to have been previously reported. A neurilemoma was observed in a 50-year-old woman. A neurilemoma suspected to be a metastatic lesion may produce the clinical features of pain, neurologic deficit, and weakness. Differentiation will be aided by roentgenograms, radionuclide bone scans, computed tomography, and possible magnetic resonance imaging. Radiologic differentiation hinges on the recognition and the slow-growing nature and noninvasive boundaries of the nonmalignant lesion. Ultimate verification is by biopsy. Treatment should consist of neurectomy, if severely symptomatic, and stabilization as indicated. 
Invasive cervical carcinoma: MR imaging after preoperative chemotherapy. To evaluate assessment of tumor regression with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, the authors studied 21 consecutive patients with cervical carcinoma tumors that were more than 3 cm in diameter. Thirteen of the 21 also demonstrated parametrial invasion. In all cases, MR imaging was performed both before and after chemotherapy. Pathologic specimens were obtained at hysterectomy in all patients. Comparison of pathologic and MR imaging findings after chemotherapy showed that all tumors decreased in size. Size of tumor was correctly determined at MR in 17 cases and was slightly overestimated in four cases. Five patients had residual parametrial invasion that was histologically confirmed. In detecting parametrial spread after treatment, MR imaging had an accuracy of 90.4%. Tumors had high signal intensity on T2-weighted images, whereas intratumoral necrosis was characterized by low signal intensity on the same images. Peritumoral inflammatory tissue found at pathologic examination in four of 21 cases was not specifically identified on MR images. In patients with invasive cervical carcinoma, MR imaging may be useful in evaluating tumor response to preoperative chemotherapy. 
Heterotopic heart transplantation and native heart ventricular arrhythmias. Heterotopic heart transplantation has been said to be contraindicated in patients with serious native heart arrhythmias that produce hemodynamic instability. Placement of heterotopic allografts, however, can theoretically act as a biological biventricular assist device to provide hemodynamic support during these unstable rhythms. Further, this operation might beneficially alter the hemodynamic milieu of heart failure such that the arrhythmias are ameliorated. Described is our experience with 4 patients with heart failure receiving heterotopic cardiac allografts, documenting changes in native heart arrhythmia that occurred. These cases demonstrate that heterotopic grafts can adequately sustain hemodynamics during malignant native heart dysrhythmia. We believe native heart ventricular arrhythmias are not a contraindication to heterotopic heart transplantation. 
Calves as a source of an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis among young children in an agricultural closed community. Transmission of Cryptosporidium from animals to humans, originating mainly in calves, had been suggested previously but has remained unproved. An outbreak of cryptosporidiosis that started among calves was transmitted to multiple pediatric groups living in close contact through one family who had close contact with the calves. Eleven of 19 (58%) infants and young children ages 10 to 15 months had Cryptosporidium compared with 3 of 27 (11%) of those ages 36 to 60 months and none of those ages 16 to 35 months. None of the asymptomatic children was positive for Cryptosporidium. These data emphasize that an extensive human to human transmission does not rule out the zoonotic nature of cryptosporidiosis. 
Hereditary coproporphyria: an imitator of multiple sclerosis. Hereditary coproporphyria can cause both peripheral neuropathy and central nervous system abnormalities. There are several similarities between multiple sclerosis and hereditary coproporphyria that are probably due to the central nervous system dysfunction present in both. This report describes a 62-year-old man with a five-year history of progressive paraparesis initially diagnosed as multiple sclerosis. Supporting evidence for the diagnosis of a demyelinating disease included three oligoclonal bands in the patient's cerebral spinal fluid, a prolonged visual evoked response bilaterally, abnormal sensory evoked potentials, and an area of increased signal in the posterior cervical cord suggestive of demyelination that was demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Features atypical for multiple sclerosis were hypoactive deep-tendon reflexes, electromyographic evidence of peripheral neuropathy, and severe constipation. Elevated urine porphyrins and decreased levels of coproporphyrinogen oxidase confirmed the correct diagnosis of hereditary coproporphyria. The patient improved after being placed on a high-carbohydrate diet. Although central demyelination is known to occur in patients with porphyria, delayed evoked potentials and MRI abnormalities have not been previously reported. 
Clofazimine: a review of its use in leprosy and Mycobacterium avium complex infection. This article reviews the chemistry, pharmacology, spectrum of activity, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy in leprosy and Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection, adverse effects, drug interactions, and special considerations of clofazimine. The drug is active in vivo against M. leprae and in vitro against MAC. In addition, it possesses antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Clinical studies support the efficacy of clofazimine as a part of multidrug therapy in treating leprosy. It also appears to reduce the incidence and severity of erythema nodosum leprosum reactions that often occur during the treatment of leprosy. Efficacy in treating MAC infection in patients with AIDS is not well documented, despite the use of clofazimine in combination with other agents. A few patients have responded symptomatically and by clearing their mycobacteremia, although there is no evidence that mortality is reduced. Clofazimine is well tolerated, at least when doses less than or equal to 100 mg/d are used. Adverse reactions include discoloration of the skin, self-limiting gastrointestinal intolerance, severe and life-threatening abdominal pain and organ damage due to clofazimine crystal deposition, and asymptomatic discoloration of the eye. Clofazimine should be considered for formulary inclusion. 
Intraoperative radiotherapy of skull base cancer. As the head and neck surgeon expands the boundaries of resectability into the skull base, the margin of tumor clearance diminishes. Intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) can be used as an adjunct to skull base surgery and external beam radiation to enhance local control in areas with close margins or remaining microscopic disease. During the period from May 1982 to May 1988, 25 patients underwent IORT of the skull base following resection and prior to closure to treat microscopic disease in 9 patients, sterilize close margins in 14 patients, and attempt to eliminate remaining gross disease in 2 patients. The types of tumors treated were 13 squamous cell carcinomas, 4 adenoid cystic carcinomas, 3 high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas, 3 sarcomas, 1 malignant mixed tumor, and an oncocytic adenocarcinoma. The majority of the tumors either originated in the sinuses or were skull base extensions of oral cavity or oropharyngeal cancers. In 22 patients with 1-year follow-up, IORT prevented local recurrence in 14 (64%) patients. This may represent improved control of local disease in patients who historically have a very dismal prognosis. The indications, techniques, and complications of this exciting therapeutic modality are also reviewed. 
Prevention of postoperative renal dysfunction in patients with obstructive jaundice: a multicentre study of bile salts and lactulose. The role of preoperative lactulose and bile salts in the prevention of postoperative renal failure in patients with obstructive jaundice has been evaluated in a prospective randomized trial. One hundred and two patients undergoing surgery for obstructive jaundice (bilirubin greater than 100 mumols/l) were randomized into three groups: those receiving preoperative oral lactulose (n = 35), those receiving oral sodium deoxycholate (n = 32) and a control group of patients receiving no specific treatment (n = 35). All patients received intravenous fluids commencing the night before surgery. One patient in the control group and none in the treatment groups developed postoperative renal failure. Postoperative deterioration of renal function in patients with normal preoperative function was significantly more common in the control group than in the treatment groups (chi 2 = 8.1, d.f. = 2, P less than 0.02). The incidence of renal failure and impairment was lower in this control group than that reported in previous studies. This may be due to the introduction of adequate preoperative hydration. Additional protection occurs by the preoperative administration of either lactulose or sodium deoxycholate. 
Nonepileptic events in childhood. The medical records of 27 children admitted to the MINCEP Epilepsy Program for evaluation of intractable epilepsy but later shown to have nonepileptic events by EEG with simultaneous video monitoring were reviewed. Four groups were identified: pure psychogenic events (5 patients), psychogenic events plus epileptic seizures (3 patients), pure nonepileptic physiologic events (5 patients), and nonepileptic physiologic events plus seizures (14 patients). Historical data, physical examinations, and neurodiagnostic evaluations (including previous EEGs, neuroradiologic evaluations, and neuropsychologic testing) were reviewed. Children in all groups, except for those with pure psychogenic seizures, had a history of multiple seizure types identified by parents or caretakers. A history of status epilepticus was obtained in 64% (of 22 patients), including 11 of 14 patients with physiologic events plus seizures. Abnormal findings on neurologic examination were common, especially in children with nonepileptic physiologic events. All but two patients had a history of interictal epileptiform abnormalities on previous routine EEGs. Based on identification of nonepileptic events, antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were discontinued completely in eight patients (30%) and the total number of AEDs was reduced in nine others (33%). A diagnosis of nonepileptic events should be considered in all children with refractory seizures or multiple seizure types. Abnormal findings on routine (interictal) EEG may actually confound the diagnosis. Intensive neurodiagnostic EEG-video recording is the preferred method for distinguishing nonepileptic from epileptic seizures. 
Cardiovascular effects of bupropion in depressed patients with heart disease. OBJECTIVE: The cardiovascular effects of therapeutic plasma levels of tricyclic antidepressants in depressed patients with and without preexisting cardiac disease have been well characterized and include orthostatic hypotension and conduction delay. Bupropion, structurally unrelated to tricyclic antidepressants, is relatively free of cardiac side effects in depressed patients without cardiac disease. However, it is unknown whether bupropion is safe for depressed patients with preexisting heart disease, so the authors studied the cardiovascular effects of bupropion in such patients. METHOD: The subjects were 36 inpatients with DSM-III major depression and preexisting left ventricular impairment (N = 15), ventricular arrhythmias (N = 15), and/or conduction disease (N = 21). The patients continued their cardiac drug regimens and received bupropion for 3 weeks (mean +/- SD dose = 442 +/- 47 mg/day). Cardiovascular functioning was measured by pulse, blood pressure, high-speed ECG, 24-hour portable ECG, and radionuclide angiography. RESULTS: Although bupropion caused a rise in supine blood pressure, it did not cause significant conduction complications, did not exacerbate ventricular arrhythmias, had a low rate of orthostatic hypotension, and had no effect on pulse rate. However, bupropion treatment was discontinued for 14% of the patients because of adverse effects, including exacerbation of baseline hypertension in two patients. CONCLUSIONS: The cardiovascular profile of bupropion may make this drug a useful agent in the treatment of the depressed patient with preexisting cardiovascular disease. Further studies, with longer durations of bupropion treatment and more subjects, are needed to confirm these findings. 
Hemolytic reactions to nitrofurantoin in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency: theory and practice. The prescribing information for nitrofurantoin states that patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency may experience hemolysis following administration of the drug. Although there is no doubt that this statement is qualitatively correct, the degree of risk in the general population of patients has not been previously quantified. This study was designed to estimate the degree of risk of a clinically important hemolytic reaction to nitrofurantoin by means of a retrospective analysis of the Norwich Eaton adverse reaction database. Since 1953, approximately 130 million courses of nitrofurantoin therapy have been distributed in the U.S. alone. The database contained 127 reports of hemolytic reactions; a "worst-case" estimate of the incidence rate was 1 in 100,000 courses of therapy. Considering the extensive usage of nitrofurantoin, clinically important hemolytic reactions appeared to be very rare. For the cases in which outcome was recorded, complete recovery occurred in 87 percent of patients. Although nitrofurantoin is contraindicated after the onset of labor and in infants less than one month old, no well-documented cases of hemolytic reactions in neonates were identified. 
Current issues in the performance of Mohs micrographic surgery. Recently, a survey was sent to all members of the American College of Mohs Micrographic Surgery and Cutaneous Oncology concerning their performance of Mohs micrographic surgery. Responses to numerous questions regarding the daily practice of this technique revealed that many useful modifications have evolved over the years that serve to enhance the efficacy and the efficiency of the original Mohs surgical procedure. The results of this survey are presented and discussed. 
Ewing's sarcoma: metastatic tumor to the jaw. Metastatic tumors to the jaw are a rare occurrence. The incidence of metastatic Ewing's sarcoma to the jaw has been reported to be less than 2% of all cases of Ewing's sarcoma. Early detection of such lesions is difficult because the signs and symptoms do not appear until the lesion has progressed considerably. The treatment options are therefore limited to palliative care of the patient rather than cure. This article reports a case of Ewing's sarcoma that had metastasized to the mandible and reviews the literature. 
Cause of death in patients attending multiple sclerosis clinics. Between 1972 and 1988, 145 deaths occurred among 3,126 patients attending the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Clinics in Vancouver, British Columbia (N = 1,583), and London, Ontario (N = 1,543). We could determine the exact cause of death in 82.1% of cases (119 of 145). Of the 119 patients for whom the cause of death was known, 56 deaths (47.1%) were directly attributed to complications of MS. Of the remaining 63 deaths, 18 (28.6%) were suicides, 19 (30.2%) were due to malignancy, 13 (20.6%) to an acute myocardial infarction, seven (11.1%) to stroke, and the remainder (9.5%) to miscellaneous causes, of which two may have been suicides. The proportion of suicides among MS deaths was 7.5 times that for the age-matched general population, and the proportion of MS deaths from malignancy was 0.67 times that for the age-matched general population. The proportion of deaths due to malignancy and stroke was the same for the MS patients and the age-matched general population. 
Non-neoplastic pineal cysts. We identified 53 patients with non-neoplastic cysts of the pineal gland. In contrast to patients with pineal neoplasms, pineal cysts are usually asymptomatic. They infrequently obstruct the aqueduct to cause hydrocephalus or compress the tectum to produce the neuro-ophthalmologic signs of dorsal midbrain dysfunction. Obstructive hydrocephalus was present in only five patients (9.4%); three of them showed clinical signs of Parinaud's syndrome. CT and MRI typically reveal a cystic mass that averages 1.6 cm in anteroposterior (A-P) diameter with calcification at the periphery and faint rim-like contrast enhancement. Sagittal MRI is the most useful diagnostic test because it shows the anatomic relationship of the cyst to the aqueduct. The mass may compress the tectum and distort the proximal aqueduct; occasionally a large cyst may occlude the aqueduct. All patients with obstructive hydrocephalus had cysts greater than 2.0 cm in A-P diameter. Nine patients had suboccipital craniotomy. In all of them, the cysts contained clear fluid and were easily removed. We advocate conservative management with clinical observation of these benign lesions that may be developmental variants of normal pineal gland. 
Imipenem/cilastatin treatment of bacterial meningitis in children. The safety and efficacy of imipenem/cilastatin were evaluated in 21 children, ages 3 to 48 months, with bacterial meningitis. Eradication of bacteria from the cerebrospinal fluid was demonstrated within 24 hours of antibiotic therapy in all but 2 patients who had Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis and ultimately achieved bacteriologic cure after 2 to 3 days of imipenem/cilastatin therapy. Cerebrospinal fluid penetrations of imipenem and cilastatin were determined at various times after drug administration with mean cerebrospinal fluid: serum ratios of 14 and 10% for imipenem and cilastatin, respectively. The study was terminated when 7 (33%) patients developed seizure activity after antibiotic therapy was administered. The usefulness of imipenem/cilastatin for the treatment of bacterial meningitis in children may be limited by a possible increased incidence of drug-related seizure activity. 
Reversal of benzodiazepine sedation with the antagonist flumazenil. The effectiveness of the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, was evaluated in a randomized double-blind clinical study in which diazepam 0.2 mg kg-1 or midazolam 0.1 mg kg-1 was used for i.v. sedation. We studied 120 day-case patients undergoing gastroscopy and treated with either flumazenil 0.1-2 mg or placebo after the procedure. Psychometric assessment of four aspects of recovery over a 3-h period showed that flumazenil attenuated the sedative effects of the benzodiazepines, but did not antagonize the sedation completely. For patients sedated with diazepam, there was a significant effect of flumazenil on speed of motor co-ordination after 90 min (P less than 0.01), and for those given midazolam a similar effect was found at 20 min (P less than 0.01). However, after 3 h all four groups of patients had not returned to baseline performance in accuracy of motor co-ordination (P less than 0.01) and cortical arousal (P less than 0.05), and the two groups sedated with diazepam still displayed memory deficits (P less than 0.05). Flumazenil did not attenuate the subjective experience of sedation as measured by visual analogue scales. These results indicate that sedation is multidimensional, differentially affecting the hierarchy of cognitive functions. In day-cases, antagonism of benzodiazepine sedation with flumazenil would not hasten the safe discharge of patients. 
Laceration of the left pulmonary artery during removal of a bronchogenic cyst by right thoracotomy. Major vascular involvement by a bronchogenic cyst is rare; most large cysts cause respiratory symptoms. We present a case in which a large bronchogenic cyst was adherent to the left pulmonary artery. During removal of the cyst by right thoracotomy, the artery lacerated. Repair of the artery in such a situation taxes the surgeon's ingenuity and decision-making process. 
Facilitated referral to asthma specialist reduces relapses in asthma emergency room visits. Facilitated asthma-specialist care delivered by allergists was compared to generalist care on the rate of relapse of asthma emergency room (ER) visits and hospitalizations and on asthma control in a prospective, controlled study of San Diego Kaiser Health Plan members with asthma. Subjects with asthma between the ages of 6 and 59 years presenting for acute ER care for asthma were systematically assigned by alternating, consecutively, the day of their ER visit to receive either (1) facilitated referral to an asthma specialist within the allergy department and concomitant comprehensive ongoing asthma care (intervention group, n = 149) or (2) continued outpatient management from generalist physicians (control group, n = 160). The course of their asthma was evaluated blindly during the subsequent 6 months by review of medical records, initial and follow-up questionnaires, and spirometry. Compared to the control group, the intervention group noted (1) a 75% reduction in the number of, and percent of, subjects with asthma awakenings per night (p less than or equal to 0.0001), (2) an almost 50% reduction in asthma ER relapses (p = 0.017) resulting from a reduction in the frequency of multiple relapse (p = 0.005), and (3) a greater use of inhaled corticosteroids (p less than 0.00001) and cromolyn (p = 0.002). Thus, facilitated referral of subjects with asthma to specialists in asthma therapy after acute ER therapy appears to reduce asthma ER relapses and to improve asthma outcome. 
Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring: the most useful test for evaluating noncardiac chest pain. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the diagnostic capabilities of traditional esophageal tests (manometry and provocative testing with acid and edrophonium) and 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring in identifying an esophageal cause of chest pain. DESIGN: A prospective study of 100 consecutive patients referred by cardiologists to the esophageal laboratory for evaluation of esophageal causes of chest pain. SETTING: Tertiary-referral university hospital. METHODS: Esophageal manometry performed with 10 wet swallows of water. Acid perfusion (0.1 N hydrochloric acid) and edrophonium (80 micrograms/kg intravenously) tests were placebo-controlled with a positive study defined as replication of typical chest pain. Esophageal pH monitoring identified (1) abnormal acid exposure times in the upright, supine, or combined position, and (2) correlation between symptoms and acid reflux, i.e., symptom index. The esophagus was identified as "probably" contributing to chest pain only if the acid or edrophonium test was positive or if there was a positive correlation between symptoms and acid reflux during pH monitoring. RESULTS: Esophageal manometry was abnormal in 32 patients (32%), but patients were asymptomatic during the study. The acid perfusion test was positive in 18 of 95 patients (19%), and the edrophonium test was positive in 15 of 78 patients (19%). Abnormal acid exposure times were found in 48 patients (48%). Of the 83 patients with spontaneous chest pain during 24-hour pH testing, 37 patients (46%) had abnormal reflux parameters and 50 patients (60%) had a positive symptom index (mean positive score 56%, range 6% to 100%). CONCLUSIONS: Acid reflux is a common and potentially treatable cause of noncardiac chest pain. Traditional esophageal tests usually miss this diagnosis. Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring with symptom correlation is the single best test for evaluating patients with noncardiac chest pain. 
Vascular injury: mechanisms and manifestations. Abnormalities in regulatory mechanisms for calcium handling play a key role in cell death and tissue necrosis. In the cardiovascular system this applies to the vasculature and the myocardium alike. In the aged population, where hypertension is a known risk factor, manifestations of vascular injury include atherogenesis and stroke. The newly developed dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist amlodipine was used in investigations to determine whether calcium antagonists with sustained activity, in addition to lowering blood pressure, slow the development of atherogenesis in rabbits receiving high cholesterol diets, or reduce mortality in stroke-prone hypertensive rats. To establish whether this drug protects the vasculature against excessive atheroma formation in the presence of high cholesterol intake, rabbits were given 2% cholesterol in addition to their normal food intake and either 0, 1, or 5 mg/kg/day amlodipine orally for either 8 or 12 weeks. One day after the conclusion of the treatment protocol, the thoracic aorta was excised, assayed for calcium or cholesterol concentrations, and stained to identify sudanophilic-positive lesions. Amlodipine caused a time- and dose-dependent reduction in lesion formation, calcium overload, and cholesterol level. In the second series of experiments, amlodipine (5 mg/kg/day) was added to the diets of stroke-prone hypertensive rats. Treatment was initiated at age 5 weeks and continued for 30 weeks. During the treatment period, systolic blood pressure was reduced in the amlodipine-treated rats (166 +/- 9 mm Hg) versus those treated with placebo (248 +/- 12 mm Hg) (p less than 0.001). A significant reduction in mortality was observed in the amlodipine-treated rats (p less than 0.001), with 93% surviving versus only 26% in the placebo group at the end of the 30-week treatment period. Concomitantly, cardiac hypertrophy was attenuated in the treated group compared with the placebo group (heart-to-body weight ratios of 4.5 +/- 0.01 vs 5.8 +/- 0.6, respectively [p less than 0.01]). These results extend the evidence that calcium antagonists provide vascular protection in animal models. This finding may become increasingly important in the management of an aging hypertensive population. 
Serum neuron-specific enolase levels after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We examined serum levels of neuron-specific enolase by enzyme immunoassay in 29 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Serum neuron-specific enolase levels were significantly higher in patients with a poor neurological status than in patients with a good neurological status on admission, and the greater the amount of subarachnoid blood, the higher the serum neuron-specific enolase level. Patients with a good outcome had low serum neuron-specific enolase levels throughout their courses. Serum neuron-specific enolase levels increased with development of delayed ischemic neurological deficits and, especially in poor outcome patients, high levels persisted until 3 weeks after the subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Comparison of propranolol, diltiazem, and nifedipine in the treatment of ambulatory ischemia in patients with stable angina. Differential effects on ambulatory ischemia, exercise performance, and anginal symptoms. The ASIS Study Group Episodes of transient myocardial ischemia during ambulatory activities are common in patients with stable coronary artery disease and who are often asymptomatic. Selection of therapy for episodes of asymptomatic ischemia is limited by a lack of direct comparative studies. To determine the most effective monotherapy for patients with stable angina and a high frequency of asymptomatic ischemic episodes, propranolol-LA (mean daily dose, 293 mg), diltiazem-SR (mean daily dose, 350 mg), nifedipine (mean daily dose, 79 mg) were each compared with placebo, each for 2 weeks, in a randomized, double-blinded, crossover trial. Entry criteria were a positive exercise treadmill test during placebo therapy characterized by 1.0 mm or more ST segment depression and angina pectoris, and six or more episodes of transient ST segment depression of 1.0 mm or more on a 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiogram. One hundred ninety-four patients were screened, 63 were eligible and received randomized therapy, of which 56 patients completed at least two of the four treatment periods and were included in an intent-to-treat analysis. Fifty patients completed all four treatment phases and were included in the protocol-completed analysis. Anti-ischemia efficacy was assessed by 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, exercise treadmill tests, and anginal diaries. Ninety-four percent of all episodes of ambulatory ischemia were asymptomatic. Compared with placebo, only propranolol was associated with a marked reduction in all manifestations of asymptomatic ischemia during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring (2.3 versus 1.0 episodes/24 hr; mean duration of ischemia per 24 hours, 43.6 versus 5.7 minutes; both p less than 0.0001). Diltiazem's reduction of the frequency of episodes compared with placebo (2.3 versus 1.9 episodes/24 hr) was associated with a trend (p = 0.08) in the protocol-completed analysis and with a significant reduction in the intent-to-treat analysis (p = 0.03). Nifedipine had no significant effect on any measured variable of ambulatory ischemia. The dosages of medication used may have been excessive for some patients, and a more beneficial effect may have been evident at a lower dose. In contrast to the marked effects of the active agents on ambulatory asymptomatic ischemia, the effects on exercise performance and angina pectoris were slight. The active agents modestly improved treadmill exercise duration time until 1 mm ST segment depression (3%), and only propranolol and diltiazem had significant effects. Only diltiazem significantly prolonged the total exercise time. Anginal frequency was significantly decreased by both propranolol and diltiazem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Comparative histopathology and deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry of random mucosal biopsies in untreated bladder carcinoma. In a study of 290 patients with untreated carcinoma of the bladder, histopathological studies of random mucosal biopsies were compared with the results of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) flow cytometry. By histopathology the findings were classified as severe atypia corresponding to primary grade 3 carcinoma in situ, atypia not fulfilling the criteria for carcinoma in situ and no atypia. The DNA histograms were classified as diploid or aneuploid. Aneuploid cell populations in mucosal biopsies were found mainly in cases with aneuploid tumors of grade 3. Of the biopsies classified as concomitant carcinoma in situ 76% were aneuploid. In biopsies exhibiting less severe or no atypia aneuploidy was found in 41 and 10%, respectively. For these 3 morphological categories the distributions of the aneuploid cell populations were similar irrespective of the histopathological findings and they were also the same as that found in primary carcinoma in situ. We concluded that gross chromosomal aberrations may appear at an early stage of the tumor development and before changes recognizable by morphology. The similarity of the DNA profiles of the aneuploid cell populations, regardless of morphological findings, indicates that apart from gross chromosomal aberrations changes of the phenotype are necessary for the expression of morphological changes. 
Hypertonic nasogastric tube feedings: do they cause diarrhea? Hypertonic NG tube feeding in hospitalized patients, whether on the hospital ward or in the ICU, is considered a common etiology of diarrhea. To evaluate the accuracy of this assumption, five normal volunteers, ten hospitalized postoperative patients with head and neck cancer, and 24 ICU patients were given hypertonic (690 mosm), low residue, lactose-free tube feedings starting at 30 kcal/kg.day. There was no prior history of diarrhea in any of the groups studied. There was a significant difference in albumin levels between the three groups, with an average albumin of 2.8 g/dl in the ICU patient group; different from 4.5 g/dl present in both the normal volunteer and non-ICU hospitalized patient groups (general linear models procedure from SAS, p less than .05) (Duncan test). Diarrhea was not present in the normal volunteers or non-ICU patients during the feedings, but did occur in 3/24 ICU patients. This difference was not significant. The three patients with diarrhea had an average albumin level of 3.0 g/dl, while the other ICU patients had an average albumin of 2.7 g/dl. We conclude that hypertonic NG tube feedings do not cause diarrhea in normal volunteers or postoperative head and neck cancer patients. However, in a small statistically insignificant percent of mechanically ventilated ICU patients, this regimen may cause diarrhea although no risk factors can be identified. 
Clinical benefits of structural and functional changes with calcium antagonists. Calcium antagonists have a large variety of pharmacologic effects in addition to those exploited clinically. All drugs used in the management of hypertension, including calcium antagonists, are coming under increasing scrutiny for the possible beneficial and adverse effects they may have on the circulation and risk factor profile. This is particularly because of concern about the relative resistance of coronary heart disease to antihypertensive drug treatment and the increasing interest in evaluating the impact of blood pressure-lowering drugs on surrogate endpoints such as left ventricular hypertrophy. Given the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic heterogeneity of calcium antagonists, it may be wise to keep in mind the subtypes as exemplified by the prototypes nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil and to extrapolate from one type to another with great caution. The increased understanding of the diversity among calcium antagonists as well as the pathophysiology of hypertension and other vascular diseases promises an exciting future for calcium antagonists in cardiovascular therapeutics. 
Uniparental paternal disomy in a genetic cancer-predisposing syndrome The 11p15.5 region of human chromosome 11 seems to contain a locus or loci involved in congenital overgrowth anomalies as well as in the genesis of many tumours associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS). Given the unusual differential parental allele involvement in the different aetiological forms of BWS and the loss of maternal alleles in associated tumours, we have now used 11p15.5 markers to determine the parental origin of chromosome 11 in eight sporadic cases of BWS. Probands in three informative families had uniparental paternal disomy for region 11p15.5. Further, an overall greatly increased frequency of homozygosity for several 11p15.5 markers in 21 sporadic BWS patients suggests that isodisomy probably accounts for an even higher proportion of BWS sporadic cases. This demonstrates that uniparental paternal disomy can be associated with a genetic cancer-predisposing syndrome. 
Hepatocellular and biliary expression of HLA antigens in primary biliary cirrhosis before and after ursodeoxycholic acid therapy. Recently, there have been reports that ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapy has a beneficial effect on liver function in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. However, information regarding the effects of UDCA therapy on hepatic histology remains insufficient. Aberrant expression of HLA antigens on hepatocytes is regarded important in the progression of hepatocellular damages mediated by cytotoxic T-cells in primary biliary cirrhosis. In this study, we examined immunohistochemically hepatocellular expression of HLA antigens on hepatocytes before and after UDCA therapy in four patients with asymptomatic primary biliary cirrhosis. Piecemeal necrosis, intralobular focal necrosis, and portal inflammation, as well as infiltration of activated T-lymphocytes and expression of HLA class I antigens on hepatocytes, disappeared, or diminished in parallel after the therapy. In two of four patients, expression of HLA-DR on some periportal hepatocytes before the therapy also disappeared after the therapy. These observations imply that UDCA therapy decreases the hepatocellular expression of HLA antigens and thereby reduces or abolishes T-cell-mediated hepatocellular necrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Genetic control of susceptibility to diethylnitrosamine and dimethylbenzanthracene carcinogenesis in rats. The susceptibility to cancer induction after a single dose of diethylnitrosamine in male rats and a single dose of dimethylbenzanthracene in female rats was examined in the grc- strain R16 and the grc+ strain ACP, both of which have the same major histocompatibility complex genes but differ in the grc region. No tumor-promoting regimens were used, and the animals were fed only laboratory chou. The R16 males developed liver cancer and the R16 females developed breast cancer, there also were malignancies in other organs in some animals. By contrast, the ACP males did not develop any malignancies, and the ACP females had a significantly lower prevalence of malignant tumors. Thus the susceptibility to cancer in these two strains of rats has a genetic basis associated with genes in the grc region, and is independent of the carcinogen used, the action of a promoter, and the sex of the animals. 
Immunohistochemical study of androgen receptors in metastatic prostate cancer. Comparison of receptor content and response to hormonal therapy. A longstanding goal has been to determine whether androgen receptor (AR) levels could be used to predict the clinical response of metastatic prostate cancer to androgen withdrawal therapy. A major limitation of previous studies was the use of homogenized tissue, which yields an average AR content for all cells. By AR immunohistochemical study using an antibody specific for AR the authors assessed nuclear AR content specifically in the malignant epithelial cells of prostate needle biopsy specimens of 17 patients with Stage D prostate cancer. The authors found that prostate cancer contains AR-positive and AR-negative malignant cells before androgen withdrawal therapy, but the percentage of AR-positive cells did not predict the time to tumor progression after therapy. There was no significant correlation between the percentage of AR-positive malignant cells and the time to tumor progression. When patients were divided into two groups based on the median time to progression, the percentage of AR-positive nuclei was not significantly different in poor responders versus good responders. When patients were divided into two groups based on the median percentage of receptor-positive nuclei, Kaplan-Meier estimates of the progression-free interval revealed no significant difference between the group of patients with AR-poor tumors and patients with AR-rich tumors. Potential explanations for these results are discussed. The authors conclude that the percentage of AR-positive nuclei is not a sufficient criterion to predict tumor behavior. 
Reversal of alcohol dependence and tolerance by a single administration of flumazenil. Chronic exposure to ethanol is associated with the development of tolerance to the acute effects of ethanol and a withdrawal syndrome characterized by anxiety and seizure susceptibility. In the present study we examined the ability of flumazenil (Ro15-1788), a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, to reverse neuronal and behavioral manifestations of ethanol tolerance and dependence. A single injection of flumazenil (10 mg/kg, 14 hr before withdrawal) to mice administered a liquid diet containing ethanol for 10 days, reduced seizure severity during withdrawal from ethanol. Acute tolerance to ethanol-induced hypothermia was not sensitive to flumazenil treatment, but tolerance and diazepam-induced cross-tolerance to the ataxic effects of ethanol were reversed by a single injection of flumazenil given 2 to 26 hr before evaluation of tolerance. At a biochemical level, the ability of benzodiazepine inverse agonists (e.g., Ro15-4513) to reduce the activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor-operated chloride channels may represent a neuronal manifestation of ethanol dependence (Buck and Harris, 1990). Flumazenil treatment of ethanol-dependent mice 14 hr before isolation of brain membrane vesicles partially reversed the augmentation of Ro15-4513 inhibition of muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake in vitro. These results demonstrate that brief occupation of benzodiazepine receptors by an antagonist may reset the cellular mechanisms responsible for the development of ethanol tolerance and dependence, and support the hypothesis that increased sensitivity to benzodiazepine inverse agonists is involved in the development of ethanol dependence. 
Three-dimensional upper airway computed tomography in obstructive sleep apnea. A prospective study in patients treated by uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. The success of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty in treating obstructive sleep apnea varies considerably. Some of this variability may be accounted for by differences in the site of upper airway narrowing. To determine whether preoperative awake upper airway and soft tissue volumes predict the response to uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, preoperative awake computed tomograms (CT) of the upper airway were performed on 60 consecutive patients with symptomatic obstructive sleep apnea. Tracings were made from the CT scans of upper airway, tongue, and soft palate. Computer software was used to determine the cross-sectional area and volume of the upper airway, tongue, and soft palate. Patients underwent overnight polysomnograms before and 3 months after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. Tongue volume was larger (p less than 0.02) and both upper airway to tongue volume (p less than 0.0005) and oropharynx to soft palate volume ratios (p less than 0.01) were smaller in obese patients. A good response to uvulopalatopharyngoplasty as defined by a postoperative apnea index of less than 5 apneas/h or a reduction in apnea index greater than or equal to 50% was seen in 50 patients (83%). Patients who had a good response had a smaller oropharyngeal cross-sectional area (p less than 0.01), a smaller upper airway volume (p less than 0.05), a smaller upper airway to tongue volume ratio (p less than 0.01), and a smaller oropharynx to soft palate volume ratio (p less than 0.05). Obese patients with obstructive sleep apnea have larger tongues and smaller upper airways relative to tongue and soft palate size. Patients with smaller upper airways, particularly relative to tongue and soft palate size, have a good response to uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. 
PET as a tool in the clinical evaluation of pituitary adenomas. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used in over 400 examinations in patients with pituitary adenoma. It was demonstrated that PET with carbon-11-methionine can give valuable complementary information in the diagnosis of this tumor due to PET's ability to adequately depict viable tumor tissue in contrast to fibrosis, cysts and necrosis. Furthermore, PET with dopamine D2 receptor ligands can characterize the degree of receptor binding and thus give information as to the prerequisites for dopamine agonist treatment. Most important is the very high sensitivity given by PET with carbon-11-methionine in the evaluation of treatment effects. It is concluded that when properly used PET can be fully justified in the clinical handling of patients with pituitary adenomas and other intracranial tumors. 
The decline of mortality due to stroke: a competitive and deterministic perspective. Although stroke mortality has been declining since the first part of this century, the rate of decline increased sharply during the early 1970s. The basis for the fall in stroke mortality is often attributed to effective management of risk factors, particularly hypertension. However, some investigators have questioned whether risk factor reduction alone can adequately account for the magnitude of the recent decline in stroke mortality. When viewed from the perspective of competitive and deterministic mortality dynamics, the major force decreasing stroke mortality is the decreasing deterministic competitiveness of stroke and the increasing deterministic competitiveness of various malignant neoplasms and degenerative diseases as causes of mortality. These reciprocal trends are a natural consequence of the competitive deterministic mortality dynamics which describe these diseases in an environment that is becoming more conducive to human survival. The competitive nature of human mortality makes drawing etiopathogenic conclusions based upon single disease mortality data hazardous. 
Chronic sialadenitis with psammoma bodies mimicking neoplasia in a fine-needle aspiration specimen from the submandibular gland. A 65-year-old woman with a submandibular gland nodule had a fine-needle aspiration specimen that contained groups of duct-type cells and a psammoma body, suggestive of adenocarcinoma. The resected gland showed chronic sialadenitis with sialolithiasis and psammoma bodies. In a series of 81 resected nonneoplastic submandibular glands from 72 patients, psammoma bodies, nonlaminated microcalcifications, or both were found in 46 (57%). They were located most commonly just outside of striated or intercalated ducts. When examining fine-needle aspiration specimens from the submandibular gland, it is important that one be aware that psammoma bodies may occur in normal, inflamed, irradiated, and neoplastic conditions. 
Scrapie-associated prion protein accumulates in astrocytes during scrapie infection. In the course of scrapie, a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy caused by an unconventional agent, a normal cellular protein is converted to an abnormal form that copurifies with infectivity and aggregates to form deposits of amyloid. We have used immunocytochemistry and methods that enhance detection of amyloidogenic proteins to investigate the types of cells in the central nervous system which are involved in the formation of the abnormal scrapie-associated protein. We show that this protein accumulates in astrocytes prior to the cardinal neuropathological changes in scrapie--astrogliosis, vacuolation, neuron loss, and amyloid deposition. These findings implicate the astrocyte in the formation of the scrapie isoform of the prion protein and amyloid in scrapie and suggest that this cell type might also be involved in the replication of the scrapie agent. 
Solitary myeloma of the talus bone. Solitary myeloma can present as either extramedullary plasmacytoma or solitary plasmacytoma of bone (SPB). More than half of reported cases of SPB are localized to the spine. The rest include appendage long bones of the skeleton, pelvis, and skull. The first case of SPB (to the authors' knowledge) is reported involving the talus bone of the foot. Although approximately 50% of SPB patients progress to multiple myeloma in the first 3 years after diagnosis, aggressive local therapy is indicated because the median survival of patients with SPB is better than that for multiple myeloma. 
Traumatic carotid-cavernous sinus fistula associated with an intradural pseudoaneurysm: a case report. A case of traumatic carotid-cavernous sinus fistula (CCF) associated with an intradural pseudoaneurysm is reported. A 42-year-old man developed traumatic CCF after severe head trauma. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a direct CCF associated with an intradural pseudoaneurysm at the C2 portion. Transarterial balloon embolization of the CCF caused severe subarachnoid hemorrhage. A CCF with an intradural pseudoaneurysm is life-threatening and requires emergency treatment. However, balloon occlusion in such cases is contraindicated because of possible rupture of a pseudoaneurysm. Trapping or a direct surgical approach is the treatment of choice. 
Fibroblast stimulation in schistosomiasis. XI. Purification to apparent homogeneity of fibroblast-stimulating factor-1, an acidic heparin-binding growth factor produced by schistosomal egg granulomas. Liver fibrosis is the most serious complication of infection with Schistosoma mansoni and Schistosoma japonicum and is responsible for severe morbidity and mortality in hundreds of thousands of patients in many Third World nations. The pathogenesis of this condition remains to be elucidated. We proposed that certain cytokines produced by cells that comprise the chronic granulomas that surround the helminth eggs within the liver initiate hepatic fibrogenesis. We now report our successful purification to apparent homogeneity of the egg granuloma-derived fibroblast mitogen. The high affinity of this factor for heparin (elutes from heparin-Sepharose with 1.5 M NaCl) facilitates its purification by a two-step procedure, and identifies the cytokine as a heparin-binding growth factor (HBGF). Furthermore, because it has an isoelectric point approximately equal to 6.2, it has one of the characteristics of a class 1 (acidic) HBGF. We immunized rabbits with the purified factor and observed that the resulting antibodies (IgG) detected the factor but not acidic fibroblast growth factor (the prototypic class 1 HBGF) either by dot-blot ELISA or neutralization of biologic activity. The granuloma product and fibroblast growth factor also differ in target-cell specificity and amino acid composition. On the basis of these distinctions, we have designated the granuloma-derived mitogen fibroblast-stimulating factor-1. With the availability of purified fibroblast-stimulating factor-1 and the future analysis of its amino acid sequence, its structural relationship to other mesenchymal growth factors can be determined. 
The association between human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid status and the results of cytologic rescreening tests in young, sexually active women. We examined the utility of cytologic rescreening tests in women who had positive test results for human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid but who were diagnosed as having benign conditions at cytologic testing. One hundred twenty-five Papanicolaou smears from women who were screened for human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid were sent routinely to a private laboratory for diagnoses. These slides were then reviewed independently by two pathologists who were blinded to the human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid results. The effects of cytologic rescreening in cases of both positive and negative human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid were assessed by calculating z scores. Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia was diagnosed in 40% by pathologist A and in 20% by pathologist B of the human papillomavirus-positive subjects compared with none diagnosed by the private cytology laboratory (z = 3.09, p less than 0.005 and z = 1.98, p less than 0.05, respectively). No significant differences were found in the human papillomavirus-negative group. We conclude that cytologic rescreening in human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid-positive women who were initially diagnosed as having benign cytologic results will yield a significant proportion of cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. 
Risks of untreated hypertension. A discussion [comment] There is a strong and graded association between blood pressure and the incidence of major coronary heart disease manifestations, congestive heart failure, stroke, and total mortality. The risk of any of these manifestations is also modified by other risk factors. Tobacco smoking affects the risk for all of the previously mentioned end points. Generally, lipid disturbances are only important predictors of coronary heart disease and total mortality. Several facts indicate that elevated blood pressure is causally related to the end points. There are, however, positive relations between blood pressure levels and heart rate, serum cholesterol level, body mass index, and, according to some studies, glucose intolerance. Some more basic abnormality may be responsible for the blood pressure increase and the increases in these other factors. Hypothetically, this abnormality may be more fundamentally related to some of the end points than is hypertension itself. If that is the case, then the type of antihypertensive treatment may be of decisive importance. Different end points may be affected differently by antihypertensive drugs, a factor that may be essential in the choice of drug treatment. Proper management of other risk factors is also essential in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. 
Sympathetic neural responses to induced ventricular tachycardia. Although sympathetic mechanisms play a major role in buffering abrupt arterial pressure reductions, including those that occur during tachyarrhythmias, human sympathetic nervous system responses to ventricular tachycardia have not been measured. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity was recorded directly from the peroneal nerve in 16 patients during diagnostic induction of 19 episodes of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (average rate 189 beats/min, range 130 to 250). Average systolic and diastolic pressures decreased from 149/78 to 61/49 mm Hg by 10 s and increased toward baseline levels to 88/64 mm Hg by 1 min of ventricular tachycardia. Average sympathetic nerve activity increased by 92% at 10 s in direct proportion to arterial pressure reductions and in inverse proportion to ventricular rate and remained 83% above baseline levels at 1 min. The late recovery of arterial pressure during ventricular tachycardia was related significantly to the magnitude of early sympathetic responses. Sympathetic activity tended to lose its discrete bursting pattern during ventricular tachycardia, and power spectral analysis showed that the large sympathetic peaks at the heart rate frequency present during sinus rhythm are absent during ventricular tachycardia. This study is the first to delineate human sympathetic nervous system responses to ventricular tachycardia. The results suggest that in the patients studied, large early sympathetic surges differed from those that occur during sinus rhythm and contributed to hemodynamic stability during ventricular tachycardia. 
Intermittent pneumatic compression versus coumadin. Prevention of deep vein thrombosis in lower-extremity total joint arthroplasty. One hundred forty-nine consecutive patients requiring lower extremity total joint arthroplasty were randomized to either coumadin (52 patients) or intermittent pneumatic compression (48 patients) as prophylaxis against deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Forty-nine patients were excluded. When fully ambulatory, the presence or absence of DVT was diagnosed by ascending venography (90% of patients), nuclear venography, venous dopplers, or impedence plethysmography. The two groups were similar in average age (64 years), indication for arthroplasty (pain because of arthritis in 90%), gender (98% male), and average number of risk factors (2.4). Twenty-five percent of patients on coumadin and 25% of patients on intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) developed DVT. IPC was more effective than coumadin following primary total hip arthroplasties (THAs) (16% versus 24% incidence DVT); coumadin was more effective than IPC following primary total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) (19% versus 32% incidence of DVT). DVT developed in 36% of patients following revision arthroplasty. Seventy-five percent of all thrombi were proximal. Both IPC and coumadin were found to be safe; there was no increased perioperative bleeding in the coumadin group. Of three postoperative deaths, one was possibly due to pulmonary embolism (PE). 
Macrophage apolipoprotein synthesis and endoneurial distribution as a response to segmental demyelination. The synthesis and endoneurial distribution of apolipoproteins in response to myelin degradation was elucidated morphologically and biochemically in rodent models of segmental demyelination. At the onset of acute demyelination induced by tellurium (Te) poisoning, macrophages infiltrated the endoneurium and then began to express cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for apolipoprotein E (apo E). When demyelinating nerve slices were incubated with S35-methionine, radiolabeled apo E was released, showing that apo E was actively synthesized by the macrophages. Macrophages secreted apo E into the endoneurial spaces, leading to dense endoneurial accumulations. Other apolipoproteins (apo A1 and albumin) were not synthesized in the endoneurium, but they entered edematous nerves, presumably through an early breakdown in the blood-nerve barrier. During the phagocytosis of myelin, plasma-derived apolipoproteins accumulated within some of the macrophages. In chronic demyelination caused by lead poisoning, the cellular and extracellular distribution of apolipoproteins was similar to Te neuropathy; the amount of apo E accumulation and the macrophage density were proportional to the prevalence of active demyelination in teased fibers. Similar patterns of endoneurial apo E were present in an inherited form of demyelination in the twitcher mouse, after antibody-mediated demyelination, and in demyelination secondary to axonal degeneration. Human sural nerve biopsies had patterns of apolipoprotein E antigenicity that were comparable to the rodent models. We conclude that secretion of apo E by infiltrating macrophages is a generalized response to demyelination, and that endoneurial edema leads to the accumulation of certain plasma apolipoproteins within macrophages. These data suggest that endoneurial apolipoproteins and macrophages might mediate important functions in patients recovering from primary and secondary demyelination. 
CT, MRI, and autopsy findings in brain of a patient with MELAS. Brain autopsy findings in a 14-year-old patient with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes were compared with those of computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Pathologic examinations revealed extensive laminar necrosis bordered by gliotic tissues throughout the cerebral cortices. Moderate losses of myelin and fibrous gliosis were also observed in the subcortical and deep white matter. These lesions were demonstrated as low-density areas on CT and as high-signal areas on T2-weighted MRI. MRI revealed the lesions more distinctively and precisely than CT. Neither CT nor MRI could reveal abnormalities in the basal ganglia, including vascular proliferation and calcium deposits in the blood vessels. 
Effect of milacemide on audiogenic seizures and cortical (Na+, K+)-ATPase of DBA/2J mice. Milacemide (MLM, CP 1552 S, 2-N-pentylaminoacetamide), a glycinamide derivative, is currently being evaluated clinically for antiepileptic activity. Anticonvulsant properties have been shown in various animal models, but the mechanism of action of MLM is unclear. We studied its activity in audiogenic seizures of DBA/2J mice. MLM was effective in inhibiting the convulsions induced by sound with a biphasic dose-effect relation. The ED50 was 109 mg/kg orally against tonic extension. Higher doses were necessary to abolish clonic convulsion and running response. Because impaired cerebral (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity is supposed to play a role in epileptogenesis, we tested MLM on in vitro cortical enzymatic activity of DBA/2J mice. Basal (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity was unchanged by several concentrations of MLM in normal C57BL/6J and audiogenic DBA/2J mice. K+ activation (from 3 to 18 mM) of (Na+, K+)-ATPase is abolished in DBA/2J mice as compared with C57BL/6J mice, suggesting impaired glial (Na+, K+)-ATPase. In the presence of MLM (from 30 to 1000 mg/L), cortical (Na+, K+)-ATPase of DBA/2J mice is activated by high concentrations of K+, as in C57BL/6J mice. Results suggest that the antiepileptic activity of MLM in audiogenic mice may be secondary to an activation of a deficient glial (Na+, K+)-ATPase. 
Cardiovascular effects of isradipine in essential hypertension. The immediate and short-term cardiovascular effects of oral isradipine therapy were evaluated in 11 patients with mild to moderate systemic hypertension. Isradipine, 5 mg administered orally, induced a significant reduction in arterial pressure from 165 +/- 6/88 +/- 3 mm Hg to 140 +/- 5/76 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) within 2.5 hours by a decrease in total peripheral resistance associated with an increase in heart rate and cardiac output. Contrary to the acute effect, oral therapy with isradipine for 3 months reduced arterial pressure through a decrease in total peripheral resistance but without causing an increase in heart rate or cardiac output or activation of the sympathetic nervous system. Isradipine slightly reduced left ventricular mass and improved cardiac systolic function and left ventricular filling. Renal blood flow increased, and renal vascular resistance (p less than 0.01) and total blood volume (p less than 0.002) decreased without a change in either sodium excretion or body weight. Thus, isradipine, when given for 3 months, decreased arterial pressure by reducing total peripheral resistance without activation of reflexive mechanisms. Its favorable effects on systemic hemodynamics, total blood volume, renal blood flow, and cardiac structure and function suggest isradipine to be an excellent choice for antihypertensive therapy. 
Corneal phaeohyphomycosis caused by Wangiella dermatitidis. A case is described of a corneal abscess of the left eye of a patient, male, 35 years, from which there was found in pure culture a mycotic micro-organism, Exophiala (Wangiella) dermatitidis, determined also in the native preparation from the pus. The patient is feeble-minded, suffers from von Recklinghausen's disease and has an impairment of the immune system (above all the reduction of T lymphocytes). 
Events in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST): mortality in patients surviving open label titration but not randomized to double-blind therapy. The patient characteristics and outcomes were studied in the 318 patients who survived open label drug titration in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) and who were not randomized to double-blind therapy and in 942 patients, who were randomized to double-blind placebo therapy. The patients randomized to placebo therapy had a lower total mortality or resuscitated cardiac arrest rate (4% vs. 8.5%). However, at baseline, nonrandomized patients were dissimilar from patients randomized to placebo in the following ways: older; lower left ventricular ejection fraction; greater use of digitalis, diuretic drugs and antihypertensive agents; lesser use of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents and more frequent prior cardiac problems, including runs of ventricular tachycardia and left bundle branch block. A matched comparison that took these inequities into account showed no significant differences in mortality or rate of resuscitation from cardiac arrest between nonrandomized patients and clinically equivalent patients randomized to placebo. Cox regression analysis indicated that two factors significantly increased the hazard ratio for arrhythmic death or resuscitated cardiac arrest in the nonrandomized patients: female gender (4.7, p less than 0.05) and electrocardiographic events (ventricular tachycardia, proarrhythmia, widened QRS complex, heart block, bradycardia) during open label titration (7.0, p less than 0.005). However, some potentially important differences between men and women were not included in the Cox regression model. Of the nonrandomized patients, approximately 70% were not randomized because of lack of suppression of ventricular premature depolarizations or adverse events, or both, and the remaining 30% because of patient or private physician request with no indication of another reason. 
Influence of hypertension and dietary copper on indexes of copper status in rats. The Dahl salt-sensitive rat was used to investigate the effect of hypertension on indexes of copper status and to determine the extent to which dietary manipulation of copper attenuated, or exacerbated, the rate of sodium chloride-induced hypertension. Weanling salt-sensitive rats were fed, in a 2 x 3 factorial design, one of six diets that contained one of three levels of copper (2.0 micrograms/g marginal, 12 micrograms/g adequate, or 50 micrograms/g supplemental) and either control (0.4%) or high (4%) levels of sodium. Diets were fed to the rats for 11 weeks. Rats fed the high sodium diets were characterized by high plasma copper concentrations and ceruloplasmin activities compared with their respective control sodium rats. The magnitude of the sodium-induced rise in plasma copper and ceruloplasmin was affected by dietary copper intake; however, dietary copper intake had no effect on the development of hypertension in the high sodium groups. These results suggest that altered copper metabolism is secondary, rather than primary, to the development of sodium chloride-induced hypertension in the salt-sensitive rat. Red blood cell superoxide dismutase activity was reduced in rats fed the low copper diets compared with the adequate and supplemented copper groups. At the lower levels of copper intake, sodium chloride-induced hypertension increased red blood cell superoxide dismutase activity in a manner consistent with the plasma copper and ceruloplasmin changes observed. However, at adequate or supplemental levels of dietary copper, red blood cell superoxide dismutase activity plateaued, suggesting possible saturation of copper at sites of hematopoeisis. 
A new provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia. A new provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia is described, based upon the demonstration of a fall in the intramural pH of the small bowel after introduction of a test meal into the stomach. Intramural pH (pHI) is determined indirectly by tonometry, utilizing a tonometer passed per os. Postoperative assessment of revascularization procedures is also possible by the same technique. Application of the test in an 84-yr-old woman showed good correlation between a preoperative fall in jejunal intramural pH and abdominal pain, and the absence of a fall postoperatively after successful revascularization. 
Intestinal ischemia associated with cardio-pulmonary-bypass surgery: a life threatening complication. Intestinal ischemia following open heart surgery is rare but nevertheless extremely dangerous and the causes are still unclear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the factors influencing the occurrence and outcome of patients with this complication. At our institution between 1985 and 1989 1712 patients underwent open heart surgery and 4 female patients suffered from intestinal ischemia. The early mortality was 2.5% for the whole group and 100% for the group with intestinal ischemia. All these 4 patients were elderly and had a history of hypertension and hyperlipoproteinemia. Three of the four patients with intestinal ischemia had various risk factors for thromboembolic events such as pre-existing occlusive arterial disease and cardiac dysrhythmias or had a complicated postoperative course. In two patients an enormous increase in serum lactate to over 10 mmol/l occurred prior to the intestinal ischemia. We therefore consider advancing age, female gender and a susceptibility for thromboembolic events as important risk factors for the development of intestinal ischemia. A serum lactate over 10 mmol/l should lead to an aggressive diagnostic and therapeutic approach including exploratory laparotomy. 
Mitogenic effects of coagulation factor XII and factor XIIa on HepG2 cells. The structure of coagulation factor XII (Hageman factor), inferred from its DNA sequence, includes two epidermal growth factor (EGF)-homologous domains in its amino-terminal region. This suggests that factor XII may exhibit EGF-like activities. Reciprocal antigenic cross-reactivity between factor XII and EGF was shown by exposing purified human factor XII or mouse EGF to anti-mouse EGF or anti-human factor XII. Western blot analysis showed that anti-mouse EGF recognized intact factor XII at 80 kDa. Together, these results suggest that the EGF-homologous domains are accessible for anti-EGF binding in native factor XII. To determine whether factor XII has mitogenic activity, HepG2 or L cells (10(4) cells per well) were grown in serum-free medium in the presence or absence of factor XII or kaolin-activated factor XII (factor XIIa). Both factors XII and XIIa (6.0 micrograms/ml) enhanced cell proliferation by approximately 2-fold (P less than 0.001 and P less than 0.005, respectively). In contrast, L cells, which are not EGF target cells, were not affected by either factor XII or factor XIIa. Various doses of factor XII enhanced cell proliferation, [3H]thymidine incorporation, and [3H]leucine incorporation in HepG2 cells cultured under the same conditions. These data indicate that factor XII, like EGF, is a mitogen for HepG2 cells and suggest a possible autocrine role in the liver. 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and complicated diverticular disease: a case-control study. Fifty patients with severe complications of diverticular disease were compared with two groups of 50 controls, matched for age and sex. The first control group (A) was randomly selected from all emergency hospital admissions, and the second group (B) from patients with uncomplicated diverticular disease. Of the 50 study patients, 24 (48 per cent) were taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) at the time of admission compared with nine (18 per cent) of control group A and ten (20 per cent) of control group B. Both of these differences were statistically significant, indicating a strong association between the ingestion of NSAIDs and the development of severe complications of diverticular disease. 
Stress testing in the period after infarction. Dipyridamole echocardiography is gaining popularity as an exercise-independent diagnostic method in patients with suspected or demonstrable coronary artery disease. To assess its safety, feasibility, and diagnostic accuracy in patients recovering from uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction, 131 patients had the test before hospital discharge. The results were compared with those of maximum treadmill testing. We found that dipyridamole-induced transient asynergy remote from the infarct zone was more sensitive (74% versus 53%, p less than 0.05) and specific (97% versus 68%, p less than 0.01) than treadmill testing for detecting multivessel coronary artery disease. In a subgroup of 42 patients treated with thrombolytic therapy, dipyridamole echocardiography was able to detect in 27 the presence of jeopardized but viable myocardium in the infarct zone. An excellent correlation was found between dipyridamole echocardiography responses and infarct vessel patency. Finally, the prognostic impact of dipyridamole echocardiography on patients recovering from acute myocardial infarction was assessed in a consecutive series of 151 patients. Eighteen months of event-free survival was significantly different in patients with positive versus negative dipyridamole echocardiography results (76.1% versus 50.8%, p less than 0.01). The test was also superior to treadmill testing in predicting cardiac events. Thus, dipyridamole echocardiography performed early after acute myocardial infarction is safe, feasible, and accurate for predicting the extent of coronary artery disease and 18-month clinical outcome. 
Fluid resuscitation with deferoxamine prevents systemic burn-induced oxidant injury. We studied the effect of deferoxamine (DFO) infused after burns on hemodynamic stability as well as local and systemic inflammation and oxidant-induced lipid peroxidation. Eighteen anesthetized sheep were given a 40% of total body surface burn and fluid resuscitated to restore oxygen delivery (DO2) and filling pressures to baseline values. Animals were resuscitated with lactated Ringer's (LR) alone or LR plus 1,500 ml of a 5% hetastarch complexed with DFO (8 mg/ml). Animals were killed 6 hours postburn. The sheep resuscitated with LR and LR plus hetastarch demonstrated significant lung inflammation and significant increases in lung and liver malondialdehyde (MDA) from controls of 47 +/- 6 and 110 +/- 7 nMol/gm to 63 +/- 13 and 202 +/- 59 for LR and 67 +/- 4 and 211 +/- 9 for LR + hetastarch, respectively. The group resuscitated with hetastarch alone required 15% less fluid. VO2 returned to baseline values in both groups by 2 hours. Resuscitation with the 5% hetastarch-DFO decreased total fluids by 30% over LR and prevented the increase in lung and liver MDA. In addition, postburn VO2 increased by 25% above baseline values. Burn tissue edema, measured as protein-rich lymph flow, was significantly increased with the administration of DFO compared with the other groups. We conclude that DFO used for burn resuscitation prevents systemic lipid peroxidation and decreases the vascular leak in nonburn tissues while also increasing O2 utilization. Resuscitation with hetastarch-DFO may accentuate burn tissue edema, possibly by increased perfusion of burn tissue. 
Portal vein thrombosis complicating endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. Convincing further evidence. Portal vein thrombosis occurred in a patient who bled from gastric varices that developed after obliteration of esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy. This complication was recognized only at surgery when thrombectomy and endovenectomy preceded the successful placement of an end-to-side portocaval shunt. At histopathology, the presence of an amorphous, eosinophilic material staining negatively for fibrin and similar to sclerosant injected at sclerotherapy was observed within the clot. This latter finding, previously unreported, provides convincing evidence for the causal relationship of portal vein thrombosis to endoscopic sclerotherapy. 
Determinants of genital human papillomavirus infection in young women Carcinoma of the cervix has several well-established epidemiologic risk factors, including multiple sexual partners and early age at first intercourse. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection appears to have an etiologic role in the development of cervical neoplasia, but evidence linking HPV infection to known risk factors for cervical cancer has been inconsistent. The lack of expected correlations may be due to the inaccuracy of HPV assays previously used. A polymerase chain reaction DNA amplification method for the detection of HPV was used to investigate the determinants of genital HPV infection in a cross-sectional sample of 467 women attending a university health service. In contrast to studies using less accurate detection methods, the risk factors for HPV infection found here were consistent with those for cervical neoplasia. The risk of HPV infection was strongly and independently associated with increasing numbers of sexual partners in a lifetime, use of oral contraceptives, younger age, and black race. Age at first intercourse, smoking, and history of a prior sexually transmitted disease were correlated with, but not independently predictive of, HPV infection. These results demonstrate that the key risk factors for cervical carcinoma are strongly associated with genital HPV infection. This correlation suggests that HPV has an etiologic role in cervical neoplasia and reaffirms the sexual route of HPV transmission. 
Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) phase II trial: outcome comparison of a "conservative strategy" in community versus tertiary hospitals. The TIMI Research Group In the conservative strategy arm of phase II of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) trial, 1,461 patients were treated with intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA). Coronary angiography, with angioplasty if feasible, was to be performed only for recurrent spontaneous or exercise-induced ischemia. In this study results in patients treated by this strategy in community and tertiary hospitals are compared. Despite similar baseline findings in the two groups, coronary angiography was performed within 42 days in more patients (542 [48%] of 1,155) initially admitted to a tertiary hospital (on-site coronary angiography/angioplasty available) than in those (94 [32%] of 306) admitted to a community hospital (transfer to tertiary hospital for coronary angiography/angioplasty) (p less than 0.001). This different approach resulted in a greater use of coronary angioplasty (203 [18%] of 1,155 versus 32 [11%] of 306, p less than 0.01), coronary artery bypass surgery (133 [12%] of 1,155 versus 23 [8%] of 306, p less than 0.05) and blood transfusions (139 [12%] of 1,155 versus 17 [5.5%] of 306, p less than 0.001) in patients admitted to a tertiary than to a community hospital. However, there were no significant differences between the two groups in mortality, recurrent myocardial infarction or left ventricular function. These results demonstrate that a conservative strategy after treatment of acute myocardial infarction with rt-PA is applicable in the community hospital setting. 
Physiologic adaptations to prolonged high-intensity exercise training in patients with coronary artery disease. Exercise training elicits numerous beneficial adaptations in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), but until 10 yr ago these adaptations were generally believed to be peripheral adaptations rather than improvements in myocardial blood supply. However, animal models of CAD have been shown to elicit improvements in myocardial blood flow and left ventricular performance with prolonged, intense exercise training. More recently we have provided electrocardiographic, echocardiographic hemodynamic, and radionuclide evidence of central cardiovascular adaptations in patients with CAD after a year-long program of 1 h of exercise at 70-90% of VO2max 5 d.wk(-1). These training-induced adaptations are consistent with an improvement in myocardial oxygenation and concomitantly an enhanced left ventricular function in these patients. This program also resulted in improvements in glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and plasma lipoprotein-lipid profile. We have also shown that these beneficial cardiovascular and metabolic adaptations are maintained during six additional years of training in patients with CAD. These results do not imply that all patients with CAD should initiate such an intense training program, but rather that, in selected patients undergoing a training stimulus well in excess of that conventionally prescribed for coronary patients, the training-induced adaptations may be substantially greater than previously believed. 
Limb salvage surgery for bone and soft tissue sarcoma. A phase II pathologic study of preoperative intraarterial cisplatin. Preoperative therapy has been tested as part of limb salvage therapy for localized bone and soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities. The activity of cisplatin (CDDP) by intraarterial (IA) infusion was evaluated in 40 cases of which 36 were evaluable for response. All patients had high-grade sarcomas. All but 3 patients received 3 or 4 courses (24 patients received 4 courses) of CDDP at a dosage of 120 to 150 mg/m2 given over 6 hours every 2 weeks by IA infusion. Patients younger than 18 years of age received the higher dose of CDDP. Treatment was well tolerated with combination antiemetics. One patient experienced severe hearing loss with the first cycle of the higher CDDP dose. Pathologic evaluation of resected osteosarcoma showed a favorable response (90% or greater necrosis) in 8 of 20 evaluable cases and in 3 of 4 patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of bone (without osteoid). In soft tissue sarcomas, minimal (50% to 89%) necrosis was seen in two of nine cases and none had 90% or greater necrosis. Patients received postoperative chemotherapy based on pathologic response, but the value of this postoperative adjuvant therapy requires further follow-up and is uncertain in this small study. IA CDDP can often cause significant tumor necrosis in patients with bone sarcomas, whereas soft tissue sarcomas are less sensitive to this therapy. 
Routine imaging studies for the posttreatment surveillance of breast and colorectal carcinoma. Current recommendations on follow-up procedures for patients who have been treated for cancer include imaging studies and other laboratory tests at relatively frequent intervals. At least two questions should be asked to evaluate the benefits of this practice for patients: Do frequent routine surveillance tests detect recurrences "earlier" in asymptomatic patients? and Does earlier treatment of these recurrences reduce morbidity or prolong survival? The practical import of surveillance with imaging and laboratory tests for recurrence in patients with cancer of the breast and colon is discussed. Reported autopsy data, findings at elective reoperation, and clinical data have been examined to ascertain the justification for routine periodic tests in the treated but asymptomatic patient. It is concluded that earlier detection of a local recurrence or of metastatic disease through periodic tests in the asymptomatic patient with breast or colon cancer rarely alters the treatment or the outcome. A notable exception is regular screening mammography following treatment for adenocarcinoma of the breast. 
A follow-up study of colonic epithelial proliferation as a biomarker ina Native-American family with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer. A 7-year follow-up study of colonic mucosa proliferation markers was conducted on members of a Native-American family with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer. Reproducibility of a tritiated thymidine autoradiography assay for labeling indexes during this 7-year biologically significant time frame was established. A good correlation between tritiated thymidine and a newer technique, bromodeoxyuridine immunoperoxidase staining, was seen. No confounding effect could be attributed to standard colon preparation. On average, both baseline and follow-up values for epithelial proliferation were within the accepted normal range. The presence of essentially normal labeling indexes among colon cancer patients and their high-risk offspring suggests the possibility of the significant effect of dietary factors in reducing proliferation. Such factors may account for the low risk of colon cancer that characterizes the Native-American population in the American Southwest. 
High-dose intramuscular triamcinolone in severe, chronic, life-threatening asthma [published erratum appears in N Engl J Med 1991 May 9;324(19):1380] BACKGROUND. Despite oral corticosteroid therapy, some patients with asthma have frequent exacerbations requiring emergency room visits, hospitalization, and occasionally, mechanical ventilation. We compared the effects of high-dose intramuscular triamcinolone with oral prednisone in patients with severe chronic asthma. METHODS. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study that spanned all seasons, we treated 12 patients with high-dose intramuscular triamcinolone (360 mg over the first three days of the treatment period) or low-dose oral prednisone (median dose, 12.5 mg per day throughout the period; range 0 to 30). The two three-month treatment periods were separated by a three-month washout period. During all periods the patients were allowed to take additional doses of prednisone for acute exacerbations of asthma. RESULTS. After receiving triamcinolone, the patients had significantly better peak expiratory flow rates than while receiving prednisone (the average [+/- SEM] weekly percent of the predicted value during the triamcinolone period was 91.5 +/- 6.9, as compared with 75.0 +/- 5.9 for the prednisone period; P less than 0.05). During the prednisone period there were 21 emergency room visits and 10 hospitalizations, but there were none during the triamcinolone period (P less than 0.05). There were two episodes of ventilatory failure during the prednisone period. Total steroid doses were significantly smaller during the triamcinolone period than during the prednisone period (P less than 0.04). Steroidal side effects were more pronounced after treatment with triamcinolone than after treatment with prednisone (P less than 0.1). CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that high-dose intramuscular triamcinolone is more effective than low-dose prednisone in patients with severe, chronic, life-threatening asthma, but steroidal side effects are somewhat worse. 
Evaluation of biotinylated DNA probes for the detection of gene rearrangements in clinical specimens. To determine whether a nonisotopic procedure is suitable for analyzing clinical specimens for gene rearrangements, the authors hybridized DNA from 15 specimens of lymphoid tissue with biotinylated DNA probes directed to J beta I + J beta II (T-cell receptor beta chain gene), JH (immunoglobulin gene heavy chain J region), and J kappa (immunoglobulin gene kappa light chain J region). Five cases of benign lymphoid hyperplasia, one case of dermatopathic lymphadenopathy, and one case of small noncleaved follicular center cell lymphoma had germline hybridization patterns when digested with Bam HI, Eco RI, and Hind III restriction endonucleases. Four cases of B-cell lymphoma and three cases of T-cell lymphoma had clearly detectable rearrangements of the genes for immunoglobulin or the T-cell receptor or both. One case of dermatopathic lymphadenopathy had a faint, clonal rearrangement of the T-cell receptor after digestion with Eco RI and Bam III. The authors conclude that biotinylated DNA probes can be useful for analyzing gene rearrangements in clinical specimens. 
Acute respiratory viral infections in ambulatory children of urban northeast Brazil. The morbidity of acute respiratory infections in young children and the role of respiratory viruses were evaluated in a 29-month household-based study in an impoverished urban population in Fortaleza, Brazil; subjects were 175 children less than 5 years of age in 63 families. Home visits were conducted three times weekly during which staff recorded the presence of respiratory and systemic symptoms and collected upper respiratory tract samples for viral isolation. A large and sustained burden of respiratory illness was observed, and respiratory viruses were isolated in 35% of the samples collected. Of the isolates, 45.6% were rhinoviruses, 16% parainfluenza viruses, 15.8% enteroviruses, 9.9% adenoviruses, 7.0% herpes simplex viruses, and 5.7% influenza viruses. The results indicate that poor children in northeast Brazil have a high prevalence of respiratory illness and that rhinovirus is the most frequent respiratory virus. 
Preoperative evaluation of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasound. The preoperative use of endoscopic ultrasound was evaluated in 74 patients with confirmed gastric cancer. It was used in diagnosing the depth of invasion in the gastric wall, the infiltration to the adjacent organs, and the involvement of the perigastric lymph nodes. Results were compared with histological findings in resected specimens. Accuracy in staging gastric cancer using the T grade of the 1987 TNM system was 81.1% (60 of 74 patients). Endoscopic ultrasound provided excellent results compared with computed tomography and conventional ultrasound, particularly in evaluating perigastric lymph node metastasis and direct infiltration to the adjacent organs. The success rate in detecting lymph node metastasis was 50% (11 of 22 patients); the accuracy in diagnosing direct infiltration to the adjacent organs was 60% (three of five patients). This technique is useful in diagnosing malignant invasion and lymph node metastasis of gastric carcinomas but requires further refinement for use in diagnosing the disease itself. Its preoperative use is recommended for establishing surgical and other treatment plans, as well as in predicting the prognosis of gastric cancer. 
Effects of endurance training on baroreflex sensitivity and blood pressure in borderline hypertension. Physical training offers a potential nonpharmacological strategy for control of mild and borderline hypertension, but its effect on blood pressure is controversial. We investigated the effects of endurance training on waking and sleeping blood pressure and on baroreflex sensitivity in 16 borderline hypertensive patients. First, 8 patients were assessed before and after a 6-month endurance training programme. Then, when it was clear that blood pressures were lower after training, a further 8 patients were studied not only at the end of the training programme but also after 4 months' abstention from exercise (detraining). Measurements were taken of baroreflex sensitivity (response to iv phenylephrine), blood pressure, R-R interval, and blood pressure and R-R variability. Ambulatory blood pressures were measured in 13 patients (7 trained, 6 detrained) and sleep blood pressures in 6 patients (3 trained, 3 detrained). Increased fitness was associated with a decline in resting arterial blood pressure of 9.7 (SE 2.0) mm Hg systolic and 6.8 (1.2) mm Hg diastolic, and with a decline in ambulatory blood pressure of 4.8 (1.4) mm Hg and 7.5 (2.1) mm Hg, respectively; both p less than 0.05. Baroreflex sensitivity was 14.0 (1.8) ms/mm Hg in the unfit and 17.5 (2.0) ms/mm Hg in the fit; p less than 0.05. Sleep blood pressures were not lower in the fit despite longer sleep R-R intervals. These findings indicate that, in some subjects with borderline or mild hypertension, a physical training programme is sufficient to bring the blood pressure within normal limits. 
The long-term course of Lyme arthritis in children. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. The natural history of Lyme disease is not completely known. We studied the long-term course of Lyme arthritis in 46 children in whom the onset of the disease occurred between 1976 and 1979 and who received no antibiotic therapy for at least the first four years of the illness. RESULTS. Of the 46 children (age range, 2 to 15 years), 33 (72 percent) initially had erythema migrans, 7 (15 percent) had influenza-like symptoms, and 6 (13 percent) had migratory joint pain. These manifestations were followed by brief attacks of arthritis, particularly affecting the knee. The percentage of children with recurrent episodes of arthritis declined each year. By year 4, only 10 children still had a mean of two episodes of arthritis per year; the duration of arthritis was generally longer in older children (P less than 0.05). During the sixth year of illness, two children (4 percent) had keratitis, and more than 10 years after the onset of disease, a subtle encephalopathy developed in two other children. Of the 39 children whom we were able to contact in 1988-1989, 12 (31 percent) still had occasional brief episodes of joint pain and 1 (3 percent) had marked fatigue. All 46 children had positive IgG antibody responses to Borrelia burgdorferi throughout the illness and on long-term follow-up. As compared with those who became asymptomatic, the children with recurrent symptoms more often had IgM responses to the spirochete and had significantly higher IgG titers (P less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. The course of initially untreated Lyme disease in children may include acute infection followed by attacks of arthritis and then by keratitis, subtle joint pain, or chronic encephalopathy. 
Neuroendocrine activation in congestive heart failure. Several changes in neuroendocrine activity follow failure of cardiac function to satisfy peripheral requirements and contribute to the clinical syndromes of heart failure. Afferent pathways are poorly understood and triggers are both central and peripheral, involving attenuation of atrial and arterial baroreceptor activity. Efferent sympathetic activity is generally increased with resulting vasoconstriction, but responses are organ-specific and differ among heart, kidney, lung and skeletal muscle. Changes in cardiac sympathetic activity are inadequately understood. Enhanced cardiac norepinephrine spillover contrasts with reduced tissue concentration and impaired activity of synthetic enzymes and neuronal catecholamine uptake. Beta-receptor down-regulation further complicates overall adrenergic responsiveness and the balance between enhancement of contractile function and reduction in arrhythmia threshold. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system is potentiated by the sympathetic nervous system and may contribute to vasoconstrictor hyporesponsiveness. Angiotensin II may in turn facilitate the central and peripheral effects of sympathetic activation and the release of vasopressin from the pituitary. Our understanding of the role of vasodilator peptides in heart failure remains rudimentary. It is likely that vasoconstrictor neuroendocrine response adversely influences optimal cardiac function in heart failure and may promote arrhythmogenesis. The neuroendocrine response in individual organs, however, requires intensive study. 
Vipoma of the pancreas complicating ulcerative colitis. We report a case of vipoma of the pancreas in conjunction with ulcerative colitis in a 20-yr-old woman. Twenty months after the onset of ulcerative colitis, the patient complained of watery diarrhea and was found to have an electrolyte disorder. A pancreatic tumor was detected by ultrasonography and computed tomography, along with an elevation of serum vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). The secretory diarrhea diminished dramatically, and the serum VIP level decreased into the normal range immediately after resection of the pancreatic tumor. Immunohistochemical staining revealed a pancreatic vipoma. Despite removal of the vipoma, she underwent restorative proctocolectomy and ileal J-pouch anal anastomosis 2 yr later due to progression of the ulcerative colitis. Postoperative course was uneventful, with excellent functional results. Knowledge of this rare condition accompanying ulcerative colitis may help in the management of the patient with an atypical clinical course. 
Contribution of increased endolymphatic pressure to hearing loss in experimental hydrops. After the induction of experimental hydrops there follows a strict sequence of compound action potential (CAP) audiogram changes. Within days a low-frequency loss (below 8 kHz) is detected; within weeks a very high-frequency loss (above 8 kHz) develops; and finally within months the 8-kHz region is also affected. Following the application of excess pressure, presumably to the endolymphatic spaces, via a cannula placed in the endolymphatic duct, a sequence of CAP audiogram changes occurs that is not similar to that observed with hydrops. There is first a very high-frequency loss (above 4 kHz), then a very low-frequency loss (below 4 kHz), and finally the 4 kHz region is also affected and thresholds for all frequencies become even more raised. The data thus suggest that a slow accumulation of endolymph as induced by blockage of the endolymphatic duct does not produce the same disorder as a rapid onset of a high pressure applied at the base of the cochlea. In addition the data suggest that raised endolymphatic pressure is not likely to be significant in early stages of hydrops, but could contribute to the later high-frequency sensitivity losses. 
Bilateral adrenal tumours in primary aldosteronism: localization of a unilateral aldosteronoma by dexamethasone suppression scan. In a patient with primary aldosteronism, in which the postural endocrine tests suggested the presence of an aldosteronoma rather than hyperplasia, bilateral adrenal tumours were found by computer tomography. Adrenal scintigraphy using 6-131I-iodomethyl-19-norcholesterol (NP59) during dexamethasone suppression showed early unilateral adrenal visualization on the left side. After removal of the left adrenal gland, which contained a 2 x 2 x 2 cm adenoma, the blood pressure and aldosterone levels returned to normal. A CT-scan, performed 1 year after the pre-operative CT-scan, showed no change in size of the right adrenal tumour, consistent with a non-functioning adenoma. In this patient, the NP59 scan adequately distinguished a non-functioning from an aldosterone-producing adrenal tumour. 
Long-term postoperative dysphagia in oral/pharyngeal surgery patients: subjects' perceptions vs. videofluoroscopic observations. Dysphagia commonly results from surgical resection of various structures within the oral, pharyngeal, and esophageal areas. The type and severity of swallowing dysfunction are based largely on the number and quantity of structures removed as well as the reconstructive procedure. Short term-recovery has been addressed in many studies. However, follow-up studies of long-term functional results and continuing swallowing problems following oral/pharyngeal surgery are unavailable. In this study, perception of swallowing dysfunction was compared with actual videofluoroscopic findings in subjects at least 1 year after oral/pharyngeal surgery. The comparative results of a questionnaire developed to evaluate patients' perception of continuing swallowing difficulty and an analysis of actual videofluoroscopic tapes indicated that the degree or type of dysphagia could not be determined from patients' subjective descriptions of the swallowing problem. 
Partial atrial resection in advanced lung carcinoma with and without cardiopulmonary bypass. Combined pneumonectomy and partial resection of the left atrium was performed in 12 patients with advanced lung carcinoma (T3 and T4 in the new UICC classification). In the eight patients with a T3 lung carcinoma intrapericardial atrial resection with vascular clamping was carried out; four of the patients died within a year. The remaining four patients had a T4 tumour and underwent removal of the right lung and part of the left atrium under total cardiopulmonary bypass. One patient died shortly after the operation from cerebral and cerebellar infarction, and one died 11 months later from brain metastases. Two are alive and well. Complete resection appears to offer a chance for longer survival in patients with advanced lung carcinoma that extends directly into the intrapericardial pulmonary vessels or atrium. 
Use of electron microscopy in examination of faeces and rectal and jejunal biopsy specimens. The stools and rectal biopsy specimens of 44 patients with AIDS and diarrhoea were examined by culture, light microscopy, and electron microscopy. In 13 patients examination of rectal biopsy material and faecal samples showed no pathogen, but in two of these, microsporidiosis was found by electron microscopical examination of jejunal biopsy specimens. This organism was also identified electron microscopically in one of the further five jejunal biopsy samples taken from patients with a known cause of diarrhoea. Blastocystis hominis infection was identified electron microscopically in six patients, all of whom had cryptosporidiosis additionally seen by light microscopy. Four of these six patients remained well for long periods, with only moderate diarrhoea, and follow up showed no evidence of blastocystis infection. In only four of 11 patients found to have cryptosporidium in their stools at light microscopy were organisms found at electron microscopy. Viral inclusions were only identified at electron microscopy in one of 10 patients with an opportunistic viral infection seen at light microscopy (cytomegalovirus n = 7, herpes simplex virus n = 3). No additional viral pathogens were detected in either stools or rectal biopsy material by electron microscopy. It is concluded that routine electron microscopic examination of stool samples or rectal biopsy material taken from patients with AIDS and diarrhoea is unnecessary and does not increase the yield of potential pathogens compared with standard microbiological techniques and histology. 
Maxillofacial considerations in orthotopic liver transplantation. Orthotopic liver transplantation is now a widely used treatment for patients with end-stage liver disease. Lifelong pharmacologic immunosuppression renders these patients susceptible to many infections. The purpose of this article is to provide guidelines for treating the patient with end-stage liver disease, both before and after transplantation. In addition, we shall discuss some of the medical implications associated with end-stage liver disease and their clinical presentations and appropriate presurgical management. Adverse side effects of long-term immunosuppression and their effect on the oral and maxillofacial region shall also be discussed. Last, a brief discussion of FK506, the latest immunosuppressant, will be presented together with the implications of its use on our surgical treatment of these patients. 
Clinical spectrum of bronchogenic cysts of the mediastinum and lung in the adult. Bronchogenic cysts are closed sacs considered to be the result of an abnormal budding of the respiratory system. They are lined by ciliated epithelium and have focal areas of hyaline cartilage, smooth muscle, and bronchial glands within their walls. They are seldom seen in the adult, and most are thought to be asymptomatic and free of complications. During a 20-year period, 86 patients underwent resection of a bronchogenic cyst of the mediastinum (66 patients) and lung (20 patients). There were 47 women and 39 men whose ages ranged from 16 to 69 years. Seventy-two percent of patients (67% with mediastinal cysts and 90% with cysts of the lung) were symptomatic at the time of operation, and the majority had two or more symptoms. Despite extensive investigations, which in some cases included computed tomographic scanning (n = 12) and angiography (n = 22), a positive diagnosis was never made preoperatively even if it was suspected in 57% of patients. In nearly all patients, the operative approach was that of a posterolateral thoracotomy. All but two mediastinal bronchogenic cysts could be locally excised, but all bronchogenic cysts of the lung required pulmonary resection (lobectomy, 13; limited resection, 6; pneumonectomy, 1). Major operative difficulties were encountered in 35 patients, all of whom were symptomatic preoperatively. Thirty-three patients had a complicated cyst; the complications consisted of fistulization (n = 16), ulcerations of the cyst wall (n = 13), hemorrhage (n = 2), infection without fistulization (n = 1), and secondary bronchial atresia (n = 1). Overall, 82% of patients had a bronchogenic cyst that was either symptomatic or complicated or both. 
Medical treatment of chronic otitis media: steroid or antibiotic with steroid ear-drops? The aim of this study was to evaluate whether, in the treatment of active non-cholesteatomatous chronic otitis media, the effectiveness of gentamicin with hydrocortisone ear-drops is due solely to the contained steroid or to the combination of antibiotic and steroid. Sixty-four patients presenting to the Ear, Nose and Throat outpatient department with active non-cholesteatomatous chronic otitis media were randomly allocated to receive either gentamicin with hydrocortisone ear-drops, or betamethasone ear-drops, for up to 4 weeks. Activity in the ear was assessed at 2 and 4 weeks. Gentamicin with hydrocortisone combination drops were significantly more effective than betamethasone drops (P less than 0.001) in producing inactivity of chronic otitis media, being effective in 80% as opposed to 29% of cases. The effectiveness of gentamicin with hydrocortisone ear-drops appears to be due to the combination of antibiotic and steroid. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: evolution, early results, and impact on nonsurgical gallstone therapies Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, a surgical technique first performed in France, has gained widespread acceptance among surgeons in the United States. The abdominal cavity is inflated by carbon dioxide, a video monitor is inserted via a laparoscope placed periumbilically, and the gallbladder is freed and removed from the liver bed by using small subcostal ports for access and dissection. Intraoperative cholangiography is routinely performed, but uncertainty exists about how best to manage choledocholithiasis. Compared with traditional cholecystectomy, initial reports describing laparoscopic cholecystectomy cite shorter recovery times because no large incisions are made, thus potentially reducing the cost and morbidity of cholecystectomy. A survey of 614 early cases supports these claims, with a reported complication rate of 1.5% and quick resumption of normal activities by patients. Because of its promise for reduced morbidity, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is challenging open cholecystectomy as the therapeutic gold standard for symptomatic cholelithiasis. Thus, the standard to which the nonsurgical gallstone therapies, such as lithotripsy and contact dissolution, will be compared may shift to laparoscopic cholecystectomy. As the laparoscopic complications are similar to those of traditional cholecystectomy, such as abscesses and bile leaks, their percutaneous treatment should not change. 
Necrotizing soft-tissue infections in the head and neck: a clinicopathological study. The clinicopathological aspects of 15 patients with necrotizing soft-tissue infections in the head and neck are reviewed. Our relatively large series suggests that the disease occurs more frequently than described in the literature. Histological studies showed that tissue superficial and deep to the fascia is frequently involved with the infectious inflammatory process, even in early stages of the disease. These pathologic changes were also found in healthy-appearing tissues at the periphery of the lesions. The early recognition of the disease and the prompt and aggressive surgical and medical therapeutic approach have resulted in far lower mortality rates (7%) than those reported in the literature. Frozen-section examination contributed to the maximal eradication of the pathologic process. This successful outcome was achieved in spite of the adverse associated clinical conditions, such as old age, debilitating disease, or complications, observed in half of the patients. 
Prolonged gastric pH monitoring in responder and nonresponder duodenal ulcer patients: response to placebo and to H2-blocker administration. We evaluated the circadian pattern of gastric acidity by prolonged intraluminal pHmetry in 15 "responder" and 10 "nonresponder" duodenal ulcer patients after nocturnal administration of placebo, ranitidine, and famotidine. Acidity was measured during predefined periods under the different drug regimens in the two groups of subjects, and a comparison was performed both within and between groups. With placebo, significantly lower median 24-h pH values were detected in patients with resistant ulcer than in responders (1.13 versus 1.63). On the contrary, no statistical difference was detected between the two groups during any time of day after administration of either ranitidine or famotidine. Within each group, no significant difference was noted between the two different H2-blockers. Thus, our data suggest that patients with resistant duodenal ulcer display an increased gastric acidity in control conditions but a "normal" response to administration of antisecretory drugs. 
Identification of FAP locus genes from chromosome 5q21. Recent studies suggest that one or more genes on chromosome 5q21 are important for the development of colorectal cancers, particularly those associated with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). To facilitate the identification of genes from this locus, a portion of the region that is tightly linked to FAP was cloned. Six contiguous stretches of sequence (contigs) containing approximately 5.5 Mb of DNA were isolated. Subclones from these contigs were used to identify and position six genes, all of which were expressed in normal colonic mucosa. Two of these genes (APC and MCC) are likely to contribute to colorectal tumorigenesis. The MCC gene had previously been identified by virtue of its mutation in human colorectal tumors. The APC gene was identified in a contig initiated from the MCC gene and was found to encode an unusually large protein. These two closely spaced genes encode proteins predicted to contain coiled-coil regions. Both genes were also expressed in a wide variety of tissues. Further studies of MCC and APC and their potential interaction should prove useful for understanding colorectal neoplasia. 
A summary index for the assessment of quality of life in angina pectoris. When exploring the effects of anti-anginal therapy on quality of life (QL), it is essential to use concise, reliable, outcome measures which focus on those aspects of the disease which are affected by the anginal pain, and which are expected to be responsive to medical intervention. Analysis based on a single comprehensive index is preferable to the use of several indexes as it avoids the potential for conflicting inferences from multiple comparisons. In this paper, we describe the development of a QL index which summarizes the three questionnaires used in the North Karelian Quality of Life (KarQuol) study. The summary index (SI) will be used to compare transdermal and oral nitrate therapy in patients with angina pectoris, and represents the first stage in the construction of a disease-specific evaluative index for future trials. 
Metabolic and functional recovery of ischemic human myocardium after coronary angioplasty Although revascularization of hypoperfused but metabolically active human myocardium improves segmental function, the temporal relations among restoration of blood flow, normalization of tissue metabolism and recovery of segmental function have not been determined. To examine the effects of coronary angioplasty on 13 asynergic vascular territories in 12 patients, positron emission tomography and two-dimensional echocardiography were performed before and within 72 h of revascularization. Ten patients underwent late echocardiography (67 +/- 19 days) and eight underwent a late positron emission tomographic study (68 +/- 19 days). The extent and severity of abnormalities of wall motion, perfusion and glucose metabolism were expressed as wall motion scores, perfusion defect scores and perfusion-metabolism mismatch scores. Angioplasty significantly increased mean stenosis cross-sectional area (from 0.95 +/- 0.9 to 2.7 +/- 1.4 mm2) and mean cross-sectional luminal diameter (from 0.9 +/- 0.6 to 1.9 +/- 0.5 mm) (both p less than 0.001). Perfusion defect scores in dependent vascular territories improved early after angioplasty (from 116 +/- 166 to 31 +/- 51, p less than 0.002) with no further improvement on the late follow-up study. The mean perfusion-metabolism mismatch score decreased from 159 +/- 175 to 65 +/- 117 early after angioplasty (p less than 0.01) and to 26 +/- 29 at late follow-up (p less than 0.001 vs. before angioplasty; p = NS vs. early after angioplasty). However, absolute rates of glucose utilization remained elevated early after revascularization, normalizing only at late follow-up. 
Comprehensive multidisciplinary treatment of chronic pain: a follow-up study of treated and non-treated groups. There are relatively few outcome studies of multidisciplinary chronic pain programs which have utilized no-treatment comparison groups. The present study compared a group of chronic pain patients (N = 42) treated in a comprehensive multidisciplinary pain program with a group of patients (N = 15) who were evaluated but not treated. Comparisons were made at evaluation and at a follow-up period averaging 11 months later. From evaluation to discharge, the treated group showed significant increases in physical functioning. From evaluation to long-term follow-up, both the treated and non-treated groups showed significant decreases in self-report pain ratings and interference with activities ratings. However, only the treated group showed a significant decrease in addictive medication use and increase in work functioning. The return-to-work rate for the treated group was 48% with an additional 28% of the patients being returned to vocational rehabilitation. None of the non-treated group returned to work or vocational rehabilitation. Results are discussed in terms of their support for the conclusion that comprehensive multidisciplinary pain programs produce marked subjective and functional changes. 
The place of isradipine in the treatment of hypertension. Isradipine is a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist with a high degree of selectivity for the coronary, cerebral, and skeletal muscle vasculature. The drug has minimal depressant activity on sinoatrial node automaticity and negligible negative chronotropic, dromotropic, and inotropic actions. Isradipine reduces blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance without changes in cardiac output and stroke volume. Renal blood flow is maintained while renal vascular resistance is reduced; this is accompanied by both short- and long-term diuretic and natriuretic effects. Doses of 1.25 to 5 mg twice daily lowers blood pressure effectively over 24 h. In open as well as placebo-controlled trials, 2.5 to 10 mg isradipine twice daily was safe and well tolerated, and reduced systolic and diastolic values in up to 85% of patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Efficacy is similar to those of nifedipine and nitrendipine, and potentially superior to those of propranolol, atenolol, prazosin, hydrochlorothiazide, and diltiazem. The drug can be safely combined with beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and diuretics. Adverse effects are dose-dependent and secondary to arterial vasodilatation, such as headache, flushing, ankle edema, dizziness, palpitations, and tachycardia. At the recommended dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, the total incidence of side effects does not differ from that with placebo. The antiatherosclerotic, antitrophic, and cerebroprotective effects seen in experimental animal models are promising for the drug in the treatment of human hypertension. Isradipine may not only reduce blood pressure, but may also reduce the risk for the consequences of this peril, namely, cerebral stroke and myocardial infarction. 
Perianal ulcer in disseminated histoplasmosis. A 65-year-old man with stage I testicular seminoma, treated with surgery and radiation, had fever of unknown origin, adrenal insufficiency, and an isolated perianal ulcer. Tissue diagnosis of disseminated histoplasmosis was established by biopsy of the perianal ulcer, an unusual cutaneous manifestation of the disease. Treatment with amphotericin B resulted in rapid clinical improvement and complete healing of the perianal ulcer. 
Adjuncts to thrombolysis for myocardial reperfusion. OBJECTIVE: To discuss adjunctive pharmacologic agents for acute myocardial infarction, to critique their initial effects in clinical trials, and to review their potential for improving the clinical conditions of patients with acute myocardial infarction. DATA SOURCES: Relevant studies reported from January 1985 to December 1990 were identified through a MEDLINE search of the English-language literature and through a manual search of the bibliographies of all identified articles. STUDY SELECTION: Peer-reviewed experimental and clinical studies evaluating the role of pharmacologic adjuncts to thrombolytic therapy in experimental models of coronary occlusion and clinical trials of patients with acute myocardial infarction were selected for review. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: The data presented were abstracted by the investigators. Differences with a univariate P value of less than 0.05 were considered to be statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Current clinical data suggest that adjunctive pharmacologic therapy to thrombolytic agents should include aspirin, at least 160 mg administered as soon as possible after the onset of symptoms; intravenous heparin; and, in selected patients without contraindications, intravenous beta-blockading agents. 
Does infant feeding method influence maternal postpartum weight loss? We conducted a retrospective study of 411 women to determine whether a significant relationship existed between method of infant feeding (breast vs bottle) and postpartum weight loss at 6 weeks and 12 months. In addition to method of infant feeding, the variables parity, gravidity, mode of delivery, maternal age, maternal prepregnancy weight, infant sex, and payment status (whether receiving assistance from the Aid to Dependent Children [ADC] program) were studied in terms of their association with weight loss. In general, no consistent relationship was found between method of infant feeding and postpartum weight loss. However, in the ADC group at 6 weeks and in the non-ADC group at 12 months, nonlactating women had lost more weight than had their lactating counterparts, in spite of the theoretical energy deficiency of breast-feeding women. Women who gained more weight during pregnancy consistently lost more weight following delivery, regardless of their prepregnancy weight. These results indicate that infant feeding method was not related to differences in postpartum weight loss between lactating and nonlactating counterparts. 
Childhood haemangiomas of the head and neck. Haemangiomas of the head and neck in children may be of several histological types, the clinical course depending on the group to which the haemangioma belongs. Treatment may be required if the haemangioma interferes with the airway, as in the subglottic group, or if the lesion becomes ulcerated with subsequent haemorrhage, as in capillary cavernous haemangiomas. Most haemangiomas require no immediate treatment as they involute spontaneously, though parental reassurance will be of paramount importance. Those lesions which persist may be amenable to treatment at a later date, the laser probably offering the best long-term results in terms of cosmesis as in the case of port-wine stains. Superselective embolization is becoming the treatment of choice for arterial haemangiomas. This paper is designed to clarify the histological and clinical features of these tumours and their management in view of considerable confusion in the literature encountered in our study. 
A public health approach to cholesterol. Confronting the 'TV-auto-supermarket society'. Coronary heart disease has been proved to be associated with a "high-risk" diet and with elevated blood cholesterol levels. The National Cholesterol Education Program has embarked on a campaign based on intensive medical treatment of 60 million Americans with high blood cholesterol levels, but the degree of benefit of dietary change or pharmaceutical intervention or both to reduce blood cholesterol values remains a subject of disagreement within the scientific community. Evidence from comparative international studies suggests that to lower coronary heart disease mortality substantially, dietary alterations and general societal changes must be greater than those possible under the National Cholesterol Education Program's approach of physician-centered patient counseling. The nation's priority to prevent coronary heart disease should be a public policy approach, the goal of which is to reduce for the entire population all coronary disease risk factors. In the dietary area, three proposals to reduce the availability of atherogenic foods are the use of warning labels on atherogenic foods, the prohibition of advertising for such high-risk foods, and the imposition of an excise tax on the same foods. We must confront the "TV-auto-supermarket society" that underlies our nation's high rate of coronary heart disease. 
Scintillating scotomata associated with internal carotid artery dissection: report of three cases. We report three cases of cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection, which presented with visual symptoms resembling the migraine aura. When prolonged and especially when associated with other neurologic symptoms, such transient and positive visual phenomena can be manifestations of ICA dissection that mimic migraine. 
Expression of functional human Epstein-Barr virus/C3d receptor ([CR2] CD21) on insulinoma cell line. Induction of tumor rejection but not diabetes in syngeneic rats. We stably expressed human complement receptor 2 ([CR2] CD21 C3d/Epstein-Barr virus [EBV] receptor) on the rat insulinoma cell line RINm5F with a recombinant retroviral vector. CR2-expressing RINm5F cells secreted 78-33% less insulin than parental cells or cells transduced with an antisense vector and could be infected with high-titer EBV. We tested whether human CR2 expression on RINm5F cells would affect tumorigenesis after transplantation to syngeneic New England Deaconess Hospital rats. Non-CR2-expressing antisense-transduced RINm5F cells rapidly grew tumors and caused hypoglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and the death of the animals after 15.7 +/- 0.7 days. CR2-expressing RINm5F cells were infiltrated by mononuclear cells at an early stage and eventually caused noninfiltrated tumors and the death of the animals after 33.0 +/- 0.4 days. These tumors were CR2- and are believed to have arisen from a minor CR2- population of tumor cells. The pancreatic islets were histologically normal at all time points. We conclude that expression of a xenoantigen on a rat insulinoma cell line induces an immune response in syngeneic rats but does not result in breakage of tolerance to parental or revertant cells. 
Nausea and vomiting with use of a patient-controlled analgesia system. The incidence of nausea and vomiting following patient controlled analgesia and intramuscular morphine injections on demand was compared in a double-blind randomised study of 32 healthy patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy. There were no significant differences between the two groups in mean 24 hour postoperative morphine consumption, subjective experience of pain, nausea and sedation assessed by visual linear analogue scoring, and the postoperative requirements for antiemetic therapy. 
Prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism in surgical patients. Venous thromboembolic disease is a common, potentially life-threatening, but preventable complication of surgery. Venographic studies have shown a high incidence of deep vein thrombosis in patients who do not receive prophylaxis. The long-term sequelae of deep vein thrombosis in these patients can be disabling, but the exact prevalence of post-thrombotic complications has not been well documented. Fatal pulmonary embolism has been reported in 0.5% to 1% of patients after major abdominal surgery and in 2% to 6% after total hip replacement. Several methods of prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism have demonstrated efficacy, but a surprising number of patients still do not receive prophylaxis. A medical record review in 16 hospitals recently disclosed that only 32% of high-risk patients received prophylaxis, with a range from 9% in a community hospital to 56% in a major teaching hospital. The possible reasons for this comparatively low rate of utilization are discussed. Current issues and future trends in the prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism are briefly summarized. 
Generation of a nested series of interstitial deletions in yeast artificial chromosomes carrying human DNA. We have generated a nested series of interstitial deletions in a fragment of human X chromosome-derived DNA cloned into a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) vector. A yeast strain carrying the YAC was transformed with a linear recombination substrate containing at one end a sequence that is uniquely represented on the YAC and at the other end a truncated long interspersed repetitive element (LINE 1, or L1). Homologous recombination between the YAC and the input DNA resulted in a nested series of interstitial deletions, the largest of which was 500 kilobases. In combination with terminal deletions that can be generated through homologous recombination, the interstitial deletions are useful for mapping and studying gene structure-function relationships. 
Prostate cancer screening in younger men: prostate-specific antigen and public awareness. The American Cancer Society recommends annual digital rectal examination for men over forty years of age. We evaluated 414 men between forty and fifty-nine years of age with a questionnaire, digital rectal examination (DRE), and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) determination. One hundred ninety were forty to forty-nine years old, and 224 were fifty to fifty-nine years old. Four patients in the forty to forty-nine age group had elevated PSA determinations, and 7 had abnormal findings on DRE. Using prostate ultrasound and biopsy, no cases of prostate cancer were diagnosed. Ten patients in the fifty to fifty-nine age group had elevated PSA determinations, and 5 were diagnosed to have prostate cancer. These data suggest that PSA may have utility in detecting cancer in younger men. 
Chemical sympathectomy alters the development of hypertension in miniature swine. To determine if the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine could be used to chemically sympathectomize neonatal miniature swine, eight newborn swine were treated with 6-hydroxydopamine beginning on the first day after birth and continuing at regular intervals for the next 6 months. Six littermates served as controls and received vehicle injections. A significant reduction in the pressor response to intravenous tyramine (95%) and in the tissue norepinephrine content of the kidneys, left ventricle, and gastrocnemius muscle (more than 93%) provided evidence for an effective long-term sympathectomy in the 6-hydroxydopamine-treated animals. In addition, the blood pressure response of these young, chemically sympathectomized swine to chronic deoxycorticosterone acetate treatment was evaluated. Mean arterial pressure before deoxycorticosterone was similar in the 6-hydroxydopamine-treated (116 +/- 2 mm Hg) and control (125 +/- 5 mm Hg) groups. One week after deoxycorticosterone, mean arterial pressure had risen significantly by 20-22 mm Hg in both groups. Blood pressure continued to increase in the control group, reaching a value of 163 +/- 6 mm Hg by the third week after treatment. In contrast, mean arterial pressure in the 6-hydroxydopamine group did not increase further during weeks 2 and 3 after deoxycorticosterone. In conclusion, chronic treatment of neonatal swine with 6-hydroxydopamine produced an animal model with an effective, general, peripheral sympathectomy. The significant attenuation of the hypertensive response in these sympathectomized animals lends further support to the hypothesis that an intact sympathetic nervous system is necessary for the full expression of deoxycorticosterone hypertension in miniature swine. 
The epidermal basement membrane in basal cell carcinoma: an immunohistochemical study. An immunohistochemical study of basal cell carcinomas of varying histological type, using a panel of antibodies to constituents of the epidermal basement membrane, showed marked deficiencies in the expression of the antigens identified by the antibodies LH7.2, GB3 and G71. There was no correlation between loss of immunoreactivity to these antibodies and the histological features of the tumour. 
Vitamin K therapy in severe liver disease. A middle-aged man with parenchymatous liver disease and a decrease in vitamin K-dependent factors was given large doses of intravenous phylloquinone (10 mg/d for 20 days) without improvement in the synthesis of vitamin K-dependent factors. During subsequent liver transplantation, he exsanguinated. Although the exact role of over treatment with phylloquinone in this case is unclear, plasma levels of phylloquinone 300 times normal were attained after 5 days of treatment without effect on factors II, VII, IX, and X. Further therapy with vitamin K was unnecessary. 
Primary cutaneous mucormycosis in a healthy young girl. Report of a case caused by Mucor hiemalis Wehmer. We report an unusual case of primary cutaneous mucormycosis caused by Mucor hiemalis Wehmer that occurred in a healthy young girl after an insect bite. The patient had a slowly extending, indurated, erythematous, and scaling eruption on the right cheek. Histologic examination revealed granulomatous dermatitis and characteristic broad, nonseptate, pale-staining hyphae. This is the first report of an infection in a human being caused by Mucor hiemalis Wehmer. The infection was cured with intravenous amphotericin B. 
Serum lipid and apolipoprotein levels in non-hypertensive lean NIDDM patients. To determine the possible role of a glycaemic control in lipid metabolism in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients, serum lipid and apolipoprotein levels were measured in well-controlled and poorly controlled lean NIDDM without proteinuria and hypertension. A sample of 96 lean NIDDM patients (body mass index less than 25 kg m-2 in men and less than 27 kg m-2 in women) were divided into two groups: group I, where the HbA1c concentration had been less than 6% for the previous 3 months, and group II, where the HbA1c concentration had been greater than 8% for the previous 3 months. Serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, and HDL-cholesterol levels showed no significant differences between groups I and II. Furthermore, serum levels of apolipoproteins AI, AII, B, CII, CIII, and E did not differ significantly between groups I and II. These results suggest that glycaemic control did not influence lipid metabolism in lean NIDDM patients. 
Regional esophageal distribution and clearance of refluxed gastric acid. Regional differences in the esophageal distribution and clearance of refluxed gastric acid was studied in seven asymptomatic volunteers and seven patients with reflux esophagitis. Intraluminal pH was recorded for 3 postprandial hours from the distal, middle, and proximal esophagus on two separate occasions (with subjects in upright and supine positions). With the subjects in a supine position, about half of the acid reflux episodes reached the proximal esophagus in patients as well as in controls. This percentage decreased to 25% in patients and 29% in controls when they were upright. In both groups, the pH drops in the distal esophagus were significantly greater than in the proximal esophagus for both the supine and upright positions. In both patients and controls, a 4-5-fold greater acid exposure occurred in the distal esophagus, than in the proximal esophagus. In both patient and control groups, acid exposure time, as well as the number of reflux episodes in the distal esophagus, were significantly greater than that of the proximal esophagus (P less than 0.05). Spontaneous acid clearance time in the distal esophagus was significantly longer than that of the proximal esophagus in both positions (P less than 0.05) for both subject groups. In conclusion, regional differences exist in the exposure of the esophageal mucosa to refluxed gastric acid. These regional differences are more pronounced when subjects are upright than supine. Regional differences also exist in esophageal acid clearance, with clearance taking longer in the distal esophagus than in the proximal esophagus. The net effect of these phenomena is that acid exposure time in the distal esophagus is greater than that in the remainder of the esophagus. 
Bilateral cerebellopontine angle tumors in neurofibromatosis type 2. In a series of over 500 cases of cerebellopontine angle tumors, 19 patients had bilateral neurinomas. Four of these tumors arose from the facial rather than the acoustic nerve. A conservative policy regarding surgery had been adopted in an effort to prevent hearing loss for as long as possible. Nevertheless, all patients operated on in this series are now totally deaf. The results of managing these patients surgically and conservatively are discussed. 
Congenital biliary cysts in Indian adults. Only one report of congenital biliary cysts has been described so far from India, and that was in children. We present our experience with 22 adult Indian patients with this condition. The main presenting symptoms were abdominal pain, icterus, and fever, and the classical triad of jaundice, pain, and abdominal mass was seen in only one patient. The mean age of presentation was 25.5 +/- 10.1 yr, and females predominated (82%). Type Ia cysts (fusiform choledochal cyst) were the commonest. Intrahepatic cysts were seen in four patients; three of these were associated with extrahepatic biliary ductal cysts (type IVa). Internal drainage procedures performed elsewhere in six patients were followed by recurrent cholangitis, necessitating excision of the cyst. Hence, the preferred operation for congenital biliary cysts is cyst excision and hepaticojejunostomy. 
Post cricoid lymphangioma. A 69-year-old female patient presented with symptoms characteristic of globus pharyngeus and barium swallow examination was normal. Her symptoms persisted and pharyngoscopy was undertaken; a post-cricoid polyp was found and removed. Histological examination revealed this to be a lymphangioma. Histological appearances, pathogenesis and treatment are discussed. The case illustrates that persisting symptoms presenting as globus pharyngeus should be further investigated to exclude rare lesions. 
Hemodynamic consequences of desmopressin administration after cardiopulmonary bypass. Desmopressin acetate is used to reduce blood loss after cardiac surgery. However, there have been reports that hypotension can occur with infusion of desmopressin and that postoperative blood loss is not reduced. In this randomized, double-blinded study, we investigated the effects of desmopressin on hemodynamics, coagulation, and postoperative blood loss in patients undergoing primary elective coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). After reversal of heparin effect, 20 patients received desmopressin 0.3 micrograms.kg-1, infused over 15 min, and 20 patients received a placebo. Desmopressin produced a small but significant decrease in diastolic blood pressure when compared with the placebo (50.8 mmHg vs. 57.6 mmHg for the desmopressin- and placebo-treated groups, respectively; P = 0.0372). A 20% or greater decrease in mean arterial pressure was observed in 7 of 20 patients receiving desmopressin, whereas only one patient in the placebo-treated group experienced a decrease of this magnitude (P = 0.0177). Reductions in arterial pressure were secondary to decreases in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) (mean SVR before and after the drug infusion, 1,006 and 766 dyn.s.cm-5, respectively, for the desmopressin-treated group; and 994 and 1,104 dyn.s.cm-5, respectively, for the placebo-treated group; P = 0.0078). 
Hypertension following erythropoietin therapy in anemic hemodialysis patients. Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) corrects the anemia of end-stage renal disease. However, hypertension has been observed as an adverse effect of increasing red cell mass. In our study, 44 of 63 patients (70%) treated with rHuEpo had an increase in mean arterial pressure greater than 10 mm Hg or required new or additional hypertensive medications. Retrospective analysis disclosed that increasing blood pressure was associated with pretreatment hematocrit level less than or equal to 0.20 (P = .05) and dependency on red cell transfusions (P less than .01). Factors not associated with hypertension included the rate of rise of the hematocrit, the net rise in hematocrit, age, sex, the number of years on dialysis, the presence or absence of kidneys, smoking, or the presence of pretreatment hypertension. Noninvasive hemodynamic studies in eight normotensive patients before and after improvement of the anemia demonstrated a normalization of the decreased peripheral vascular resistance and a reduction toward normal in the elevated cardiac output. In three of these patients, clinical hypertension subsequently evolved. Follow-up hemodynamic studies in nine other patients receiving new or additional antihypertensive medications were difficult to interpret. Although the hypertension can be controlled with routine medication, hypertensive encephalopathy may occur if the blood pressure increases rapidly when the hematocrit increases with rHuEpo therapy. 
Prevalence of Type A behavior in untreated hypertensive individuals. Type A behavior has been associated with coronary heart disease as well as high cholesterol and smoking, major risk factors for coronary heart disease, but the data indicating a similar association with hypertension are inconsistent. Since past studies have usually based hypertension on a single blood pressure assessment or have often included treated hypertensive patients, this inconsistency is not surprising. The current study compared the prevalence of Type A behavior (assessed by Rosenman's structured interview) between 109 untreated hypertensive subjects and 109 age-, sex-, ethnic-, and occupation-matched normotensive subjects. Hypertension status was based on five repeated assessments over a 5-month period. Results indicated that Type A behavior is more prevalent in untreated, mildly hypertensive employed individuals than occupationally matched normotensive subjects. Type A component analysis confirmed the importance of hostility and certain vigorous voice stylistics in predicting cardiovascular conditions. These findings, taken together with the evidence linking Type A behavior with high cholesterol and cigarette smoking, further support the view that this behavior pattern is associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease. 
Neuronal activity up-regulates astroglial gene expression. Neuronal gene expression is known to be modulated by functional activity. This modulation is thought to play a key role in determining the differentiation of developing neurons and regulating the operation of mature neurons. Here we describe a regulation of astroglial gene expression by neuronal activity. We report that intense neuronal activity (electrically induced seizures) in rat hippocampus leads to rapid and dramatic increases in mRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astroglia-specific intermediate filament protein. GFAP mRNA levels increased at sites of stimulation as well as in areas that were synaptically activated by the resultant seizures. When seizures were induced repetitively for many days, levels of GFAP mRNA remained chronically elevated. However, GFAP mRNA returned to control levels within a few days after the cessation of stimulation. The coupling between astroglial gene expression and neuronal activity may be a mechanism through which neuronal activity modulates the function of supporting cells that are responsible for regulating the extracellular microenvironment of the brain. 
Implications of obesity for cardiovascular disease in blacks: the CARDIA and ARIC studies [published erratum appears in Am J Clin Nutr 1991 Sep;54(3):590] To examine the relation of obesity to cardiovascular disease in blacks, we analyzed data from two population studies, including young and middle-aged adults. Obesity, defined by using the sum of subscapular and triceps skinfold measurements, was positively associated with atherogenic plasma lipids, systolic blood pressure, serum glucose and insulin, and prevalence of diabetes mellitus. The strength of these associations, for the most part, was similar in blacks and whites. However, with each unit increase in sum of skinfold thicknesses, plasma triglyceride concentrations in blacks appeared to increase only one-third to one-half as much as in whites. Prevalence of cardiovascular disease in 45- to 65-y-old blacks was associated with obesity; the odds ratio (95% confidence interval), adjusted for age and cigarette smoking, was 1.3 (0.9, 1.8) in both black men and black women. Additional analyses showed that abdominal adiposity conferred increased risk. These findings suggest that both blacks and whites should avoid excess adiposity. 
Usefulness of technetium-99m-MIBI and thallium-201 in tomographic imaging combined with high-dose dipyridamole and handgrip exercise for detecting coronary artery disease Forty-two patients with known stable coronary artery disease, referred for coronary angiography, were examined with technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxy-2-methylpropyl-isonitrile (MIBI) tomography combined with a high-dose dipyridamole infusion (0.7 mg/kg) and handgrip stress. MIBI tomography was unable to show coronary artery disease only in 2 patients, thus yielding a sensitivity figure of 95%. MIBI tomography correctly identified 27 (82%) of 33 stenotic lesions (greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis) of the left anterior descending artery, 17 (61%) of 28 of those of the left circumflex artery, and 28 (90%) of 31 of those of the right coronary artery. The overall vessel sensitivity was 78%. The computed lumen diameter stenoses were more advanced in cases detected than in those not detected with MIBI tomography: 87 +/- 14 vs 76 +/- 14% (p less than 0.01). The 50 to 69% stenoses did not show any tendency to produce less positive findings than those with greater than or equal to 70% stenoses. In the subgroup of 21 patients who also presented for thallium scintigraphy, the overall diseased vessel identification rate was 76% for thallium tomography and 83% for MIBI tomography (p = not significant). Minor noncardiac side effects related to the dipyridamole-handgrip test occurred only in 5% of 63 study sessions. A high-dose dipyridamole combined with isometric exercise is a safe stress method, and when used during scintigraphy, MIBI tomography is at least as efficient a tool as thallium tomography in detecting diseased vessel territories in patients in coronary artery disease. 
Elevated circulating interleukin-6 is associated with an acute-phase response but reduced fixed hepatic protein synthesis in patients with cancer. It has been suggested that, as part of the inflammatory response to the presence of a tumor, various cytokines are produced and these induce hepatic synthesis of acute-phase proteins (APP). Under these circumstances it is not known what changes occur in the fixed component of hepatic protein synthesis. The aim of this study was to compare circulating interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) concentrations and fixed hepatic protein synthesis rates in a group of healthy controls (n = 6) with a group of patients with an established APP response secondary to hepatic metastasis from colorectal cancer (n = 6). Fixed hepatic protein synthesis rates were measured following a primed, constant 20-hour infusion of 15N-glycine. The liver was biopsied at laparotomy. The APP response was assessed by serum C-reactive protein concentration and cytokines were assayed by a combination of immunoassay and bioassay. The patients with advanced cancer and an on-going APP response had elevated circulating IL-6 concentrations (p less than 0.01). Rates of fixed hepatic protein synthesis were 30% lower than those observed in controls (p less than 0.01). These findings demonstrate that in patients with hepatic metastasis, although the synthesis of certain acute-phase export proteins can be increased, fixed protein synthesis is reduced. Whether these changes in the distribution of hepatic protein synthesis are mediated by IL-6 will require further investigation. 
Increasing incidence of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. The incidence of pyloric stenosis in the Mersey region rose from 1.54/1000 births in 1976-8 to 2.22/1000 births in 1986-8. Reliance on ultrasonography for diagnosis in the 1980s resulted in fewer 'tumours' being felt; diagnostic delay was not shortened overall but serial ultrasonography showed evolving lesions in six patients. Clinical examination and selective use of ultrasonography is advocated. 
Brachial plexus anesthesia in pediatric patients. Between 1980 and 1988 at our institution, brachial plexus anesthesia (BPA) was used in 109 pediatric patients who underwent 142 surgical procedures on an upper extremity, including 134 axillary blocks. Most patients older than 6 years of age had their blocks and surgical procedures with moderate sedation. The success rate was high--92.4% of axillary blocks and 100% of other blocks were adequate for surgical intervention in patients who required only intravenous sedation. The postoperative course in the BPA group was compared with that in 109 age-matched control subjects who underwent 188 procedures on an upper extremity during general anesthesia (GA). Admission to the recovery room after anesthesia occurred less frequently in the BPA group than in the GA group (27.5% versus 91.0%; P less than 0.01). Furthermore, nausea and vomiting were less frequent in the BPA group than in the GA group (P less than 0.01). Outpatients in the BPA group were less likely to require narcotic analgesics before dismissal than were those in the GA group (12% versus 31%; P less than 0.05). Admission of outpatients was infrequent in both groups (2% for BPA and 9% for GA). No significant difference was noted in 24-hour postoperative narcotic requirements between the BPA and GA groups. 
Mechanism of production of scoliosis. A hypothesis. On the basis of previous studies on the vertebral column and thoracic skeleton, the author generated a hypothesis for the mechanism of production of scoliosis. According to this hypothesis, vertical stability of the thoracic spine is maintained by equal support through the ribs from both sides due to the equal load brought to the lamin by both the ribs through the costotransverse articulations and ligaments. Any interference in this balancing mechanism will disturb the mechanism of spinal stability, and the spine will bend toward the more heavier loaded side at the intervertebral joints. On the basis of this hypothesis, mechanisms of production of scoliosis (both in experimental animals and humans) after removal of ribs on one side can be explained. Removal of the ribs from one side produces an imbalance in the symmetric weight transmission through the ribs on the two sides. Pathologic deformations within the vertebrae in scoliosis results from the asymmetric load and the altered route of the load transmission on the convex side of the curve. 
Ventricular cerebrospinal fluid eosinophilia in children with ventriculoperitoneal shunts. To determine the significance of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) eosinophilia, the charts of 106 patients treated with shunt-related procedures during the calendar year 1985 were reviewed. Sixty-nine patients presented for a shunt revision; their charts were retrospectively reviewed from the time of shunt insertion until January, 1988. The remaining 37 patients had a ventriculoperitoneal shunt inserted during the study period and were subsequently followed to January, 1988. A total of 558 shunt-related procedures were performed on these patients during the study period, with a mean follow-up period of 6.9 years. The infection rate was 3.8%. Eosinophilia was diagnosed when eosinophils accounted for 8% or more of the total CSF white blood cell count. Ventricular CSF eosinophilia occurred in 36 patients sometime during their clinical course. These 36 patients required a mean of 8.5 shunt revisions, while the remaining patients required a mean of 2.5 revisions (p less than 0.001). Shunt infections were also more frequent in patients with eosinophilia (p less than 0.01). In no case was peripheral eosinophilia or a parasitic infection present. This study demonstrates that CSF eosinophilia is common in children with shunts. Children with this laboratory finding will experience more shunt failures. In addition, the new appearance of eosinophilia in the CSF of a patient with a shunt in place suggests the possibility of a shunt infection. 
Drug-induced fever due to diltiazem. To our knowledge, drug-induced fever has not been reported with the use of diltiazem hydrochloride, a commonly prescribed calcium channel blocker. We describe a patient in whom this was the primary manifestation of drug hypersensitivity. A 67-year-old man was admitted for management of a diabetic foot ulcer. His hospital course was complicated by a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, for which diltiazem was prescribed. On the seventh day of therapy, he experienced fever, with temperatures as high as 38.8 degrees C. Despite an extensive evaluation, which included a gallium scan, a technetium bone scan, and abdominal ultrasound, a source could not be found. On the 16th day of therapy, however, relative eosinophilia developed, and 2 days later a pruritic maculopapular rash appeared. Diltiazem therapy was discontinued, leading to resolution of fever within 48 hours. Drug-induced fever should be considered in patients who have unexplained high temperatures during diltiazem therapy. 
Survival of patients with metastases from uveal melanoma. The authors evaluated a series of 145 consecutive patients with metastases from uveal melanoma, after proton beam irradiation, to assess the effect of early diagnosis and treatment for metastases on survival. Metastases were diagnosed between 7 weeks and 8.3 years (median, 2.4 years) after proton beam irradiation. Most patients (n = 94) were symptomatic before diagnosis; the remainder were first detected during screening examination. Liver involvement was documented in nearly all patients (n = 136). The majority of patients had died from metastases by the close of the study (n = 137). Significantly longer survival occurred among patients diagnosed during screening examination (P = 0.004) and among young patients (P = 0.03). The majority of patients received some form of treatment for metastases (69%). Median survival was 2.0 months for patients receiving no treatment compared with 5.2 months for those receiving treatment for metastases (P = .0001). However, the overall 1-year survival rate was poor (13%). Prophylactic adjuvant therapy could be explored as a means to increase disease-free survival in patients with uveal melanoma. 
Pharyngeal pouch carcinoma: two unusual cases. Two patients with carcinomata arising in pharyngeal pouches are reported. In one, the tumour was detected preoperatively by a contrast radiographic study. In the second the lesion was a carcinoma in situ. The English literature is reviewed with reference to these two unusual features. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome, subclinical median mononeuropathy, and peripheral polyneuropathy: common early complications of chronic peritoneal dialysis and hemodialysis. Nerve conduction velocity studies were done in median, ulnar, and peroneal nerves, one time each in 46 patients who had been on chronic peritoneal dialysis or hemodialysis for varying lengths of time. Only six patients had normal findings; 37 had peripheral polyneuropathy (15 had isolated polyneuropathy; 22 had median nerve dysfunction in addition); 16 had subclinical median mononeuropathy (14 with polyneuropathy, two without); and nine had overt carpal tunnel syndrome (eight with polyneuropathy, one without). Abnormalities were present in seven of the 11 patients studied after one year of dialysis and in 19 of the 24 patients studied after two years of dialysis. Seventeen patients studied after five years of dialysis all had polyneuropathy. Nine patients studied after seven years of dialysis all had median nerve dysfunction. Abnormalities were as common with peritoneal dialysis as with hemodialysis. Nerve dysfunction was independent of the disease underlying renal failure, the side of the dialysis access shunt, and the presence or absence of osteodystrophy. Dialysis patients need frequent nerve conduction studies from the onset of dialysis to identify carpal tunnel syndrome early and to avoid irreversible nerve damage. 
Detection of preclinical Parkinson's disease with PET. Putamen 18F-dopa uptake of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is reduced by at least 35% at onset of symptoms; therefore, positron-emission tomography (PET) can be used to detect preclinical disease in clinically unaffected twins and relatives of patients with PD. Three out of 6 monozygotic and 2 out of 3 dizygotic unaffected PD co-twins have shown reduced putamen 18F-dopa uptake to date. In addition, an intact sibling and a daughter of 1 of 4 siblings with PD both had low putamen 18F-dopa uptake. These preliminary findings suggest there may be a familial component to the etiology of PD. PET can also be used to detect underlying nigral pathology in patients with isolated tremor and patients who become rigid taking dopamine-receptor blocking agents (DRBAs). Patients with familial essential tremor have normal, and those with isolated rest tremor have consistently low, putamen 18F-dopa uptake. Drug-induced parkinsonism is infrequently associated with underlying nigral pathology. 
Effects of relief of biliary obstruction on mononuclear phagocyte system function and cell mediated immunity. Obstructive jaundice causes depression of immune system function but it is unclear at present how rapidly immune function recovers after relief of biliary obstruction. To address this issue, we studied 218 Sprague-Dawley rats with common bile duct obstruction. Mononuclear phagocyte function, cell mediated immune function, portal-systemic shunt fraction, liver function tests, and liver histology were evaluated in normal (sham) rats, obstructed rats, and at weekly intervals after relief of biliary obstruction. Hepatic uptake of radiolabelled bacteria was 82 per cent in sham rats and 66 per cent in rats 21 days after CBD obstruction (P less than 0.05). Phagocytic activity returned to normal within 7 days after choledochoduodenostomy. Cell mediated immunity, measured by skin graft rejection, was significantly prolonged in the obstructed group (P less than 0.05) but had returned to normal 7 days after biliary diversion. Return of hepatocellular function, as measured by liver function tests, paralleled recovery of immune function. This study demonstrates prompt recovery of the immune system after internal biliary drainage for obstructive jaundice. This finding is in contrast to previous studies that demonstrated persistent immune suppression months after biliary diversion. These data may have implications concerning the usefulness of internal biliary drainage before surgery in patients with obstructive jaundice. 
Progressive supranuclear palsy: altered sensory processing leads to degraded cognition. We studied the latencies, amplitudes, and scalp distributions of the early and late components of the event-related brain potential (ERP) in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and matched normal controls. In separate choice reaction time (RT) tasks, the subjects pressed buttons to visual stimuli presented randomly at probabilities of either 20/80 or 50/50. Compared with normal controls, PSP patients had significantly reduced amplitudes and increased latencies for both the visual P2 and P300 components at all levels of probability. RTs and percent errors were significantly greater in the patients compared with controls. Neither the amplitude nor latency of the visual N1 component was significantly altered in these patients. There were no significant group differences in the distribution of electrical activity over the scalp for any of these ERP components, a finding which suggests that the neural structures responsible for generating these potentials were intact in these patients. The decreased ERP component amplitudes and increased ERP component latencies, combined with intact scalp distributions and increased RTs and error rates, present a pattern of results suggesting that the stimulus identification or categorization processes in these patients are significantly degraded. 
Gastric emptying after gastric interposition for cancer of the esophagus or hypopharynx. Transhiatal esophagectomy with primary anastomosis to the stomach (gastric pull-up) is an attractive surgical alternative to colic interposition in patients with cancer of the esophagus and hypopharynx. However, the lack of intrinsic gastric peristalsis and complaints by patients of postprandial regurgitation prompted us to measure the effect of body posture on the rates of gastric emptying in these patients. The rates of solid and liquid gastric emptying were measured in 14 patients who had undergone gastric interposition for esophageal and hypopharyngeal carcinoma. Rates of emptying were measured in both the supine and upright position using a dual-isotope radiolabeling technique. In these patients, the rate of gastric emptying of both solids and liquids was significantly slower in the supine position than in the upright position. Emptying in supine patients was also prolonged when compared with supine normal volunteers. Conversely, the upright rate of solid and liquid emptying in the patients was accelerated when compared with published values for upright normal volunteers. We conclude that gastric emptying after gastric interposition is dependent on upright posture after meals. 
Potentially lethal complications of shigellosis. Complications that can lead to death during shigellosis include intestinal as well as systemic manifestations. The former include intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon, and dehydration, and the latter include sepsis, hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, seizures and encephalopathy, hemolyticuremic syndrome, pneumonia, and malnutrition. Data on the frequency of these complications come primarily from hospital-based studies, in which sepsis-either with Shigella or with other Enterobacteriaceae-and hypoglycemia are the most common causes of death. Management of these two complications requires broad-spectrum empiric antibiotic treatment of all severely ill, malnourished patients with shigellosis as well as frequent feedings to prevent hypoglycemia. Unfortunately, in developing countries, access to parenteral broad-spectrum antimicrobial agents is often limited, and frequent feedings are often precluded by the severe anorexia that is characteristic of shigellosis. Realistic approaches to the reduction of mortality from shigellosis must continue to focus on prevention and early antimicrobial therapy rather than on treatment of established complications. 
The value of the tumor marker CA 15-3 in diagnosing and monitoring breast cancer. A comparative study with carcinoembryonic antigen. To estimate the utility of the tumor-associated antigen CA 15-3 in the diagnosis of patients with breast cancer, this tumor marker was measured preoperatively in 1342 patients. This group included 509 patients with malignant disease (134 breast cancer patients and 375 patients with other malignancies not involving the breast) and 833 patients with benign surgical diseases (95 patients with fibroadenoma of the breast and 738 patients with other benign diseases). The results were compared with those obtained for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in the diagnosis of breast cancer. The CA 15-3 level was above normal (25 U/ml) in 31% of the patients with breast cancer, in 22% of patients with other malignancies, and in 9% of patients with benign diseases. The CEA level was elevated in 26% of patients with breast cancer (more than 3 ng/ml). There was a good correlation of CA 15-3 levels with the tumor stage of breast cancer. Both CA 15-3 and CEA also were determined in 671 patients who had received initial curative surgery of breast cancer and who regularly attended our follow-up clinic. The CA 15-3 was found to be more sensitive than CEA in detecting recurrences of breast cancer. In the postcare period, carcinoma recurred in 205 patients. Of these, 73% had CA 15-3 concentrations above 25 U/ml; only 50% had CEA values above 3 ng/ml (P less than 0.0001). Although neither CA 15-3 nor CEA were sensitive enough for the screening and diagnosis of early breast cancer, CA 15-3 was significantly better than CEA in the detection of breast cancer metastases. 
Caesarean section in undiagnosed Eisenmenger's syndrome. Report of a patient with a fatal outcome. An obstetric patient is described in whom the first sign of cardiac disease was unexplained hypoxaemia during emergency anaesthesia for antepartum haemorrhage, with an eventual fatal outcome. The case highlights the importance of patient information at the booking clinic, and the implications of a raised haemaglobin in early pregnancy. 
Fetal phenytoin exposure, hypoplastic nails, and jitteriness. In a prospective study infants born to mothers with epilepsy (n = 61) were found to have an unexpectedly high incidence of congenital anomalies (26/61, 43%) and neonatal conditions (26/61, 43%) compared with controls (0/62, and 6/62, 10%, respectively). There were two neonatal deaths in the study group but none among the controls. Hypoplasia of the finger or toenails was a common congenital anomaly in those infants whose mothers had received phenytoin alone or in combination with other anticonvulsant drugs (11 of 40, 28%). The mean serum phenytoin concentration was higher among mothers of infants with hypoplastic nails than among those with normal nails. Jitteriness was a common neonatal condition affecting infants of epileptic mothers (11 of 61, 18%) but not controls The mean cord serum phenytoin concentrations were similar among jittery and non-jittery infants. At follow up (after excluding one infant with Down's syndrome from the study group) the infants seemed to have developed normally, though one had serious learning difficulties at school. We suggest that hypoplasia of the nails is related to high maternal serum concentrations of phenytoin, and though 18% of infants born to epileptic mothers were jittery compared with no control infants this may not be the result of withdrawal of the drug in all cases. 
Prevalence of epilepsy in Rochester, Minnesota: 1940-1980. The prevalence of epilepsy in Rochester, Minnesota has been determined for a specific date in each of 5 decennial census years. Individuals with a diagnosis of epilepsy (recurrent unprovoked seizures) who were known to have experienced a seizure or who had received antiepileptic medication in the preceding 5 years were considered active prevalence cases. By this definition, the age-adjusted prevalence per 1,000 population, increased steadily from 2.7 in 1940 to 6.8 in 1980. At each of five prevalence dates, for all prevalence cases, 60% had epilepsy manifest by partial seizures, and 75% had no known etiology. Prevalence was higher for males than females for all except the last prevalence day. After 1950, prevalence tended to increase with advancing age and was highest in the oldest age groups. On the average, the 1980 prevalence cases had epilepsy less than 10 years and greater than 50% had their first diagnosis in the first 20 years of life. 
Use of a somatostatin analogue, octreotide acetate, in the management of acute gastrointestinal graft-versus-host disease. PURPOSE: Because the secretory diarrhea of acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) of the gut induces serious metabolic and nutritional disturbances, this study was initiated to assess the use of a somatostatin analogue, octreotide acetate, as adjunctive therapy for severe GvHD of the gut with massive diarrhea. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a pilot study, six patients with biopsy-confirmed acute gut GvHD after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation received octreotide 50 to 250 micrograms three times a day subcutaneously. RESULTS: Three of the six treated patients had a prompt and dramatic reduction in stool volume within 1 to 3 days of initiation of octreotide therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Somatostatin and its analogues have been used successfully in diarrheal states by antagonism of neuropeptide overproduction, although other potential therapeutic mechanisms include inhibition of fluid secretion, enhanced salt absorption, and inhibition of gut motility. Somatostatin and its analogues may be promising adjunctive agents in the treatment of gastrointestinal GvHD, although assessment in a controlled trial will be required to confirm their therapeutic efficacy. 
Steroid receptors in breast cancer. Recent advances in steroid receptor structure and function now indicate that oestrogen binds to the oestrogen receptor (ER) molecule at a specific site, denoted region E. This allows binding of the oestrogen-ER complex to DNA via cysteine residues in region C of the ER molecule, which tetrahedrally co-ordinate zinc. This modulates transcription and stimulates cell growth. A number of newly discovered growth factors are also regulated by ER, as is the progesterone receptor. Steroid receptor concentrations in tissues can now be measured on smaller tissue samples using enzyme immunoassay or on cells obtained by fine needle aspiration using monoclonal antibody technology. The prognostic value of steroid receptor is limited, but still constitutes the best marker for predicting response to endocrine therapy. The role of steroid receptors in selecting patients for adjuvant therapy is discussed. 
Nimodipine and bradycardia in acute stroke--drug or disease? A patient who had suffered an acute ischemic stroke experienced bradycardia while being treated with nimodipine 80 mg tid. This became evident after the initiation of nimodipine and progressed, leading to the drug being discontinued after three days of therapy. The bradycardia resolved shortly after the treatment was terminated and normal heart rate was maintained throughout 23 days of hospitalization and in subsequent outpatient follow-up. Although nimodipine-induced bradycardia is possible, hemispheric cerebral infarction may also cause transient bradyarrhythmias in the acute stroke period. There is a need to monitor the heart rate and rhythm of all acute stroke patients, especially those receiving nimodipine. 
Glomerulopathy in patient with Donohue syndrome (leprechaunism). OBJECTIVE: To evaluate renal structure in a child with Donohue syndrome (leprechaunism), who at 10 yr of age was noted to have hypertension, microalbuminuria, and enlarged kidneys, a renal biopsy was performed. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The renal biopsy tissue was evaluated by light and electron microscopy with standard stereological techniques to measure glomerular volume, glomerular basement membrane width, fractional mesangial volume, and peripheral capillary filtering surface density. RESULTS: On renal biopsy, there was a marked increase in glomerular volume, glomerular basement width, and mesangial volume, findings similar to those seen in patients with diabetic nephropathy. CONCLUSIONS: This patient with marked insulin resistance associated with Donohue syndrome demonstrates renal and glomerular enlargement and morphometric glomerular changes similar to those seen in patients with diabetic nephropathy. In unusual syndromes with hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, renal structural and functional changes typical of traditional diabetes mellitus may be seen. 
Pseudoaneurysm of the internal carotid artery: a forgotten complication of tonsillitis? Pseudoaneurysm of the internal carotid artery is an uncommon but potentially lethal complication of tonsillar or peritonsillar sepsis, which appears to have occurred more frequently prior to the introduction of penicillin. Management of such a case is discussed, and a literature review presented. 
Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) in head and neck surgery. Patients undergoing head and neck surgery often have significant pain because of the anatomic area involved, the nature of the surgery and trauma associated with the anesthesia and surgery, or the use of packing postoperatively. A patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) infuser is available that allows the patient to direct delivery of their own analgesia. The physician orders the narcotic analgesic dose to be given, the interval between doses, and the total amount of analgesic to be delivered over 4 hours. The patient simply presses a button connected to the analgesic infuser, which delivers a predetermined intravenous dose of the particular analgesic. The infuser is then "locked out" for an interval of 10 to 15 minutes before the patient can direct another dose of medicine. This system allows the patients to initiate intravenous delivery of their narcotic analgesic, and maintain control of pain, using small incremental doses of the analgesic agent. This PCA pump has been used successfully in a number of patients undergoing various general, head and neck, and facial aesthetic procedures. The general concept of the PCA pump, guidelines for use, and contraindications are presented. 
A nine-year experience with crossover femoro-femoro-popliteal sequential bypass. Multisegmental arterial occlusive disease may require a combined inflow and outflow procedure for optimal treatment of limb ischemia. Twenty-one patients with unilateral iliac artery stenosis or occlusion and ipsilateral superficial femoral artery occlusion underwent crossover femoro-femoro-popliteal sequential bypass during a 9-year period. Seventeen operations were for limb salvage. Patency rates were determined separately for each segment of the bypass. Primary patency rates for the femoro-femoral segment were 89%, 83%, and 57% at 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively. Primary patency rates for the femoro-popliteal segments were 68%, 62%, and 40% at 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively. Limb salvage rates were 100%, 90%, and 77% at 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively. This experience indicates that femoro-femoro-popliteal bypass is an effective treatment in selected patients with severe ischemia due to combined iliac artery and superficial femoral artery disease. 
Initial clinical study of indium-111-labeled clone 110 anticarcinoembryonic antigen antibody in patients with colorectal cancer. A murine monoclonal antibody directed against carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was labeled with indium-111 (111In) by means of a benzylisothiocyanate derivative of diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid (DTPA) and used for clinical radioimmunodetection studies. Twenty-one patients having a history of surgically resected colorectal cancer and rising serum CEA levels suggestive of tumor recurrence were studied. Patients were infused over 20 minutes with 5, 10, or 20 mg of the monoclonal antibody labeled with 5 mCi of 111In. The mean radiochemical purity was greater than 96%. No toxicity was seen. The stability of the radiolabel on antibody in patient serum was demonstrated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) with autoradiography, and immunoprecipitation for up to 96 hours after infusion. Tumor sites were identified in 20 of 21 patients. Sites of antibody accumulation in 20 patients were confirmed as tumor either by resection at laparotomy (16 patients) or fine-needle biopsy (four patients). Nine patients who had the identified lesion resected or irradiated showed return of the serum CEA antigen level to normal or near normal values. In the absence of high levels of circulating CEA (greater than 500 ng/mL), the disappearance of radioactivity from patient serum demonstrated first order elimination kinetics, with a mean half-life of 38 hours. The serum half-life was not affected by the dose of antibody administered or by serum CEA titers below 500 ng/mL. Despite a mean liver uptake of 18% injected dose (ID) 24 hours after administration, hepatic metastases were easily visualized as areas of increased uptake of radioactivity. Radioimmunodetection of recurrent colorectal cancer, not detected by computed tomographic (CT) scans, appears achievable with this agent. This may allow successful clinical intervention in selected patients. 
Detection of preclinical Parkinson's disease with PET. Putamen 18F-dopa uptake of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is reduced by at least 35% at onset of symptoms; therefore, positron-emission tomography (PET) can be used to detect preclinical disease in clinically unaffected twins and relatives of patients with PD. Three out of 6 monozygotic and 2 out of 3 dizygotic unaffected PD co-twins have shown reduced putamen 18F-dopa uptake to date. In addition, an intact sibling and a daughter of 1 of 4 siblings with PD both had low putamen 18F-dopa uptake. These preliminary findings suggest there may be a familial component to the etiology of PD. PET can also be used to detect underlying nigral pathology in patients with isolated tremor and patients who become rigid taking dopamine-receptor blocking agents (DRBAs). Patients with familial essential tremor have normal, and those with isolated rest tremor have consistently low, putamen 18F-dopa uptake. Drug-induced parkinsonism is infrequently associated with underlying nigral pathology. 
Optochiasmal arachnoiditis following muslin wrapping of ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysms. Optochiasmal arachnoiditis has been reported following treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms, particularly arising from the anterior communicating artery. It has been suggested that the accompanying loss of vision is due to a muslin-induced optic neuropathy. This paper considers five cases of this condition; the response to steroid therapy was beneficial in three cases. A review of the literature is included. The arachnoiditis is considered to be due to an inflammatory response to muslin gauze placed close to the optic nerves and chiasm. 
Underdiagnosis and poor documentation of acute confusional states in elderly hip fracture patients. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the accuracy of diagnosis and documentation of acute confusional states (ACS) in the medical records of patients with hip fracture. DESIGN: The diagnosis of ACS in two prospective clinical studies was compared to its diagnosis in the medical records of the same patients on the same hospitalization. In order to determine if the simultaneous prospective study influences the diagnostic and documentary practices evidenced in the medical records, a further comparison was done by reviewing medical records of two series of patients seen some years prior to the prospective studies. SETTING: Patients with femoral neck fractures treated at a department of orthopedic surgery in a university hospital and one retrospective control sample from a department of general surgery in a county hospital. SUBJECTS: Two prospective samples of patients 65 years and older treated for femoral neck fractures (n = 111 and n = 57, respectively) and two earlier retrospective samples (n = 66 and n = 68, respectively). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All comparisons showed that both physicians and nurses diagnosed ACS unsatisfactorily and documented the patients' mental status poorly. The analysis of the two retrospective medical record control samples gave the same results. Neither the physicians nor the nurses used any kind of diagnostic instrument to detect cognitive disorders in the patients. CONCLUSIONS: ACS is a common and severe complication in elderly people treated for femoral neck fractures. Acute confusional states have, by definition, one or more causes that can often be identified and treated. Poor assessment and documentation is a threat to the patients as a correct diagnosis of ACS is a prerequisite for further assessment of its underlying causes and the consequent necessary medical and nursing care. 
Assessment of coronary artery patency after thrombolytic therapy: accurate prediction utilizing the combined analysis of three noninvasive markers. The predictability of patency of the infarct-related artery assessed by means of three noninvasive easily obtainable markers was prospectively examined in 82 patients undergoing thrombolysis for their first myocardial infarction. Positive noninvasive markers were defined as follows: 1) early peak creatine kinase (CK) activity less than or equal to 12 h after the start of thrombolysis; 2) greater than or equal to 50% reduction in ST segment elevation; and 3) occurrence of reperfusion arrhythmias within the 1st 90 min of thrombolytic therapy. In 63 (77%) of the 82 patients, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) grade II/III reperfusion was achieved within the 1st 90 min as assessed by coronary angiography. Separate analysis of each marker revealed the following respective values for sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative predictive value regarding prediction of coronary artery patency: CK peak less than or equal to 12 h: 84%, 95%, 98% and 64%; reduction of the ST segment elevation greater than or equal to 50%: 60%, 95%, 97% and 42%; and reperfusion arrhythmias: 63%, 89%, 95% and 43%. The combined analysis of all three markers utilizing a logistic regression procedure showed that CK peak (p = 0.0001) and resolution of the ST segment elevation (p = 0.005), but not the occurrence of reperfusion arrhythmias (p = 0.26), were independent predictors of vessel patency. From this logistic regression procedure, a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 90%, a positive predictive value of 97% and a negative predictive value of 100% for prediction of coronary artery patency were obtained. 
Biology of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer is the fifth leading cause of death from malignant disease in Western society. Apart from the fortunate few patients who present with a resectable small pancreatic adenocarcinoma, conventional treatment offers no hope of cure and has little palliative value. Over the past two decades major steps have been made in our understanding of the biology of pancreatic growth and neoplasia. This review sets out to explore these advances, firstly in the regulation of normal pancreatic growth, and secondly the mechanism which may be involved in malignant change of the exocrine pancreas. From an understanding of this new biology, new treatment strategies may be possible for patients with pancreatic cancer. 
Delayed plasma clearance of phenylalanine and tyrosine in elderly men. The plasma levels of 17 amino acids were measured in three groups of men: healthy young men, healthy elderly men, and demented tube-fed elderly men living in a nursing home, prior to, and again 2, 4, and 6 hours after the consumption of a standard protein-containing meal. The standard meal provided per kilogram of body weight 8.3 calories, 0.33 grams of protein, 0.90 grams of carbohydrate, and 0.37 grams of fat. The concentrations of all amino acids, except tryptophan, rose significantly at 2 hours and returned to baseline by 6 hours. Plasma phenylalanine and tyrosine were significantly (P less than 0.05) higher at 2 hours in the two groups of elderly men than in the young healthy men. In other respects the pre- and post-prandial amino acid profiles were not influenced by age. The ratio, tyrosine/other large neutral amino acids (tyr/LNAA), was significantly higher in both elderly groups than in the young men at nearly all time points before and after the test meal. It was generally higher in the demented older men than in the healthy older men. The data demonstrated a delayed plasma clearance of phenylalanine and tyrosine in old age. The elevated plasma tyr/LNAA ratio in the elderly men may have tended to augment an entry of tyrosine, the precursor of norepinephrine and dopamine, into their brains. 
Hospital characteristics associated with adverse events and substandard care. To explore the epidemiology of adverse events (AEs), which were defined as injuries due to medical treatment, and that subset of AEs caused by negligence, we studied interhospital variation in these outcomes in a sample of 31,000 medical records drawn from a random selection of 51 hospitals in New York in 1984. We found a substantial variation in both AE rates (0.2% to 7.9%; mean, 3.2%) and the percentage of AEs due to negligence (1% to 60%; mean, 24.9%) among hospitals. Univariate analyses of AEs revealed that primary teaching institutions had significantly higher rates (4.1%) and rural hospitals had significantly lower ones (1.0%). The percentage of AEs due to negligence was lower in primary teaching (10.7%) and for-profit (9.5%) hospitals and was significantly higher in hospitals with predominantly (greater than 80%) minority patients who had been discharged (37%). These findings were corroborated by multivariate analysis. Our results suggest that AEs and negligence are not randomly distributed and that certain types of hospitals have significantly higher rates of injuries due to substandard care. These observations may represent an important improvement on existing measures of quality because they take into account the fact that some hospitals' populations may be at risk of suffering a poor outcome. 
Dobutamine digital echocardiography for detecting coronary artery disease. To assess the value of dobutamine echocardiography for detecting coronary artery disease (CAD), 70 men (mean age 62 +/- 8 years) presenting for coronary angiography were prospectively studied. Dobutamine (2.5 to 40 micrograms/kg/min) was infused in 3-minute stages. Digital echocardiograms were recorded on-line at baseline, during low- and high-dose dobutamine infusion, and at recovery. An echocardiogram positive for CAD was defined as one showing a new wall motion abnormality induced by dobutamine. Compared with coronary angiography, the overall sensitivity of dobutamine echocardiography for detecting CAD was 86%, specificity 95% and accuracy 89%. The sensitivity for detecting 3-vessel CAD was 100%, 89% for 2-vessel and 69% for 1-vessel CAD. The accuracy of predicting multivessel disease by 2 methods was 71% and 84%, respectively. Heart rate at the echocardiographic ischemic threshold was lower in patients with 3- and 2-vessel CAD versus 1-vessel CAD (89 +/- 17, 95 +/- 18 and 118 +/- 18 beats/min, respectively, p less than 0.01); rate-pressure product was also lower in patients with 3- and 2-vessel CAD versus 1-vessel CAD (12.7 +/- 3.6, 13.7 +/- 2.8 and 18.9 +/- 44 x 10(3) beats/min x mm Hg, respectively, p less than 0.01). Heart rate was the most important physiologic determinant of ischemia induced by dobutamine. There were no major complications during the study. Thus, dobutamine digital echocardiography is an excellent test for identifying CAD and should be beneficial in patients unable to exercise. 
Ifosfamide extrapyramidal neurotoxicity. Ifosfamide-associated central nervous system toxicity has been reported in 5% to 30% of patients treated with ifosfamide. Its pattern is characterized by metabolic encephalopathy with confusion, blurred vision, mutism, auditory or visual paranoid hallucinations, seizures, and rarely coma. The biochemical cause of the neurotoxicity is not understood completely, but it is thought to result from an accumulation of drug metabolites with direct central nervous system effects. A case of ifosfamide neurotoxicity is reported that had unusual extrapyramidal features in a patient treated with a 5-day course of infused ifosfamide. Although usually spontaneously reversible with cessation of drug administration, ifosfamide neurotoxicity occasionally has been associated with prolonged psychopathologic sequelae. Death from irreversible encephalopathy has also been reported rarely. The authors believe that classic extrapyramidal symptoms should be considered to be a part of the neurotoxic profile of ifosfamide. 
Activity of doxorubicin and cisplatin combination chemotherapy in patients with diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma. An Italian Lung Cancer Task Force (FONICAP) Phase II study. Twenty-six symptomatic patients with diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma (DMPM) were enrolled in a Phase II Italian Lung Cancer Task Force (FONICAP) study to assess the activity and toxicity of doxorubicin and cisplatin combination chemotherapy. The drug schedule was as follows; 60 mg/m2 of doxorubicin and 60 mg/m2 of cisplatin both given intravenously (IV) on day 1 every 3 to 4 weeks. Of the 24 evaluable patients, 6 objective partial responses (25%; 95% confidence limits, 9.77% to 46.71%) were observed. Twelve of 24 patients (50%), including 6 with no radiologic evidence of response, had a clinical improvement as demonstrated by an objective reduction of symptom or performance status scores along treatment. The overall median survival time was 10 months. Toxicity was mild and dose reductions or suspensions were not required. The combination of doxorubicin and cisplatin is effective and well tolerated. It might be considered for palliation of symptomatic patients with DMPM. 
Effect of potassium intake on blood pressure. Epidemiologic, experimental, and clinical studies suggest that potassium is an important regulator of blood pressure. Surveys conducted in widely divergent geographic locations indicate higher prevalence of hypertension in populations ingesting diets low in potassium. Amelioration of hypokalemia lowers blood pressure in mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension in rats and in essential hypertensive patients receiving thiazide diuretics. We observed that in normotensive subjects ingesting normal amounts of sodium, short-term potassium depletion increases the mean arterial pressure from 90.9 +/- 2.2 mm Hg to 95.0 +/- 2.2 mm Hg (P less than 0.01). Furthermore, acute sodium loading increases blood pressure in potassium-depleted subjects but it had no effect in subjects ingesting normal amounts of potassium. Preliminary studies indicate that short-term potassium depletion also elevates blood pressure in hypertensive patients. Potassium supplementation lowers blood pressure in hypertensive patients ingesting normal amounts of sodium. Blacks appear to be more sensitive to the hypotensive effects of potassium. The mechanism of potassium-induced changes in blood pressure is not well understood. Potassium depletion consistently induces sodium retention. The hypertensive effects of potassium depletion and hypotensive effects of potassium supplementation are not observed when sodium intake is kept low. Direct vasoconstrictive effects of hypokalemia may contribute to the pressor effect of potassium depletion. The role of altered vascular sensitivity to vasoactive hormones and alterations in divalent cation metabolism in mediating the potassium-induced changes in blood pressure require further study. 
A phase I trial of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta alone and in combination with myelosuppressive doses of 5-fluorouracil in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. We studied escalating doses of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) alone and after a myelosuppressive dose of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. Transient neutropenia, monocytopenia, and lymphocytopenia were observed followed by a 1.3- to 6.0-fold (mean, 3.46-fold) dose-dependent neutrophil leukocytosis (P less than .00001) on the days of IL-1 beta administration. Increases in platelet counts were observed at a median of 14 days (range, 6 to 23) after IL-1 beta administration. Transient hypoglycemia, rebound hyperglycemia, elevations in serum cortisol, and C-reactive protein were observed. Side effects included fever, rigors, and headache in the majority of patients. Hypotension was observed in three of five patients at the highest dose level (0.1 micrograms/kg) and was dose-limiting. Fewer days of neutropenia were noted after 5-FU plus IL-1 beta than after 5-FU alone; however, this difference did not reach statistical significance. These data show that IL-1 beta has stimulatory effects in human hematopoiesis. 
CT of acute pancreatitis: correlation between lack of contrast enhancement and pancreatic necrosis. This study was performed to determine if a correlation exists between pancreatic parenchymal enhancement or lack thereof on contrast-enhanced CT and surgical evidence of pancreatic necrosis. Accurate CT assessment of pancreatic vascular perfusion would be helpful in preoperative planning before pancreatic debridement and necrosectomy. The CT scans and medical records were blindly and retrospectively reviewed in 13 patients with the operative diagnosis of pancreatic necrosis. In all cases, CT examinations preceded surgery within 72 hr. Surgical and pathologic findings served as the gold standards for the diagnosis of pancreatic necrosis. Seven (54%) of 13 patients had a region or regions of parenchymal necrosis within the head, body, and/or tail of the pancreas seen during surgery. All seven of these patients had no pancreatic enhancement on CT in at least one region of the pancreas (CT sensitivity = 100%). In four of the seven, two regions were found to be necrotic at surgery, but only one of the two segments did not enhance on CT scans. In three of the seven patients, lack of contrast enhancement on CT (no enhancement of the pancreatic head and body in two patients and throughout the gland in another) correlated with necrosis in the same regions at surgery. The remaining six (46%) patients, who had peripancreatic or small, focal, and/or superficial areas of pancreatic necrosis at surgery, had normal pancreatic enhancement on CT. Our results show that regions of pancreatic necrosis found surgically correlate with lack of enhancement of pancreatic parenchyma on CT. Peripancreatic necrosis and minor areas of focal or superficial parenchymal necrosis were not detected on CT. 
Psammomatous melanotic schwannoma: an additional component of Carney's complex. Report of a case. The authors report a case of Carney's complex (the complex of myxomas, spotty pigmentation, and endocrine overactivity) in a 32-year-old white man. Psammomatous melanotic schwannoma has recently been included as a component of this disorder. The complex was recognized after a psammomatous melanotic schwannoma was resected from the sacral canal. Subsequent echocardiography revealed ventricular cardiac myxomata. Resection of these lesions was successfully performed. Review of previous history and pathologic material further supported the diagnosis. The authors conclude that recognition of each component as part of the syndrome is of crucial importance, because it may prevent a fatal outcome. A family screening program should be performed in each case. 
Neurogenic sarcoma of the sinonasal tract. Five cases of a rare malignant sinonasal tumour of neurofibromatous nature are described. The term neurogenic sarcoma (or malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour) is advocated instead of malignant schwannoma. The clinicopathological features of this tumour are described, and the different diagnosis are discussed. The necessity of using immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of sinonasal tumours of fibromatous nature is emphasized. The clinical management consists of radical surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy. Clinically there seems to be a high-grade and a low-grade type of sinonasal neurogenic sarcoma, however, this could not be distinguished histologically in the present series. 
Relative efficacy of antithrombin compared with antiplatelet agents in accelerating coronary thrombolysis and preventing early reocclusion. BACKGROUND. Optimal coronary thrombolysis should be prompt and persistent. Although activation of platelets and increased thrombin activity have been associated with clinical thrombolysis, the role of each in delaying thrombolysis or inducing early coronary reocclusion has been difficult to define. METHODS AND RESULTS. In conscious dogs with coronary thrombosis induced by electrical current, we assessed the impact on the rapidity of thrombolysis and the incidence of reocclusion of two types of adjunctive treatment given concomitantly with intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA): 1) inhibition of platelet function with a peptide mimetic antagonist of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptors or with lysine acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and 2) inhibition of thrombin activity with recombinant hirudin or with heparin. ASA but not the receptor antagonist shortened the time to thrombolysis with t-PA (20 +/- 13 [mean +/- SD] minutes with ASA, 36 +/- 15 minutes with receptor antagonist, and 43 +/- 16 minutes with the saline control). Reocclusion occurred promptly after completion of the infusion of t-PA in all seven dogs given saline. Reocclusion was delayed and prevented in some dogs within 90 minutes after the end of the infusion of t-PA by both antiplatelet agents but still occurred in 42% despite continued inhibition of platelet function (i.e., three of six dogs given ASA and two of six given receptor antagonist). In contrast, inhibition of thrombin activity with recombinant hirudin in a dose that prolonged the partial thromboplastin time modestly (1.5-2-fold) resulted in accelerated lysis (19 +/- 10 minutes) and prevention of reocclusion in each of six dogs. Heparin given in doses that elicited similar prolongation of the partial thromboplastin time did not accelerate lysis nor prevent reocclusion, which occurred in five of six dogs. CONCLUSIONS. Inhibition of thrombin by recombinant hirudin facilitates thrombolysis and maintains patency of coronary arteries recanalized with t-PA particularly effectively. The benefit conferred may reflect direct anticoagulant effects plus diminished activation of platelets secondary to decreased thrombin activity. 
Characterization of the structure of the erythropoietin receptor by ligand blotting. Erythropoietin (Epo) regulates the growth and differentiation of erythroid cells by binding to a specific receptor. We characterized the native Epo receptor on erythroleukemia cell lines by ligand blotting. Solubilized cell membrane proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, transferred onto nitrocellulose, and probed with 125I-Epo. Specificity was demonstrated by inhibition of 125I-Epo binding by unlabeled excess Epo but not other peptide growth factors and by the cellular distribution of the Epo binding protein. A single membrane protein of 61 Kd +/- 4 Kd was sufficient to bind 125I Epo in both human (OCIM2, K562) and murine (GM979, Rauscher, DA-1) cell lines. This finding is consistent with the predicted size of the Epo receptor from the murine cDNA clone. However, chemical crosslinking of 125I-Epo to its receptor has identified two Epo binding proteins of 105 Kd and 85 Kd. This difference may occur because the receptor is size fractionated before Epo binding in the ligand blot, but after Epo binding in crosslinking studies. Ligand blotting demonstrates that the native Epo receptor is composed of a single 61-Kd Epo binding protein, and suggests the presence of additional proteins of 20 to 25 Kd that associate with the receptor after Epo binding. 
Activation signals leading to proliferation of normal and leukemic CD3+ large granular lymphocytes. The activation signals leading to proliferation of normal and leukemic CD3+ large granular lymphocytes (LGL) were studied in vitro. Anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (MoAb) alone (P less than .01) and recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) alone (P less than .01) caused significant stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from four CD3+ LGL leukemia patients, as measured in a 3H-thymidine incorporation assay. Recombinant interleukin-4 (IL-4) alone had no effect (P = .11). The combination signals of anti-CD3 MoAb and either IL-2 or IL-4 produced a proliferative response greater than anti-CD3 MoAb alone (P less than .01) or lymphokine alone (P less than .01). Leukemic LGL, purified by two-color sorting, were subsequently activated by anti-CD3 MoAb and IL-2 and assessed for DNA content by viable Hoechst No. 33342 (HO) staining. Results of these studies demonstrated that leukemic LGL were stimulated directly by anti-CD3 MoAb and IL-2, with the percentage of cells in cell cycle (S + G2/M) ranging from 16% to 72%. Normal CD3+ LGL were also stimulated to enter the cell cycle by anti-CD3 and IL-2. These results show that leukemic LGL proliferate in vitro after activation through the T-cell receptor and/or lymphokine. 
Circulatory adaptation to orthostatic stress in healthy 10-14-year-old children investigated in a general practice. 1. The magnitude and time course of circulatory adaptation to active standing were investigated in healthy premenarchic girls and boys (n = 24; 10-14 years old) by non-invasive measurement of heart rate and continuous finger blood pressure (Finapres). 2. Four subjects (two girls, two boys) showed presyncopal symptoms after 4-9 min of free standing. 3. In the 20 non-fainting subjects, changes in blood pressure and heart rate upon standing did not differ between girls (n = 10) and boys (n = 10). In the initial phase of standing (first 30 s) systolic and diastolic blood pressures dropped by 22 +/- 14 (mean +/- SD) and 16 +/- 7 mmHg, respectively, at 8 +/- 2 s. Blood pressure subsequently recovered and showed an overshoot in all subjects. The transient drop in blood pressure was accompanied by an increase in heart rate of 40 +/- 7 beats/min. These characteristic transient changes were not observed with passive head-up tilt. During the early steady-state phase (2 min), systolic blood pressure was similar to the supine value and diastolic blood pressure rose by 11 +/- 5 mmHg. Heart rate increased by 25 +/- 11 beats/min. In six of the subjects (three girls, three boys) the increase in heart rate exceeded 30 beats/min (postural tachycardia). Little further changes were observed during prolonged (10 min) standing. 
Fetal cephaloceles: diagnosis with US. The prenatal sonograms of 15 fetuses with cephaloceles (13 occipital, one ethmoidal, and one frontoparietal) were retrospectively reviewed. The prognosis for fetuses with cephaloceles was poor: Only three of 14 with follow-up were born alive (21%), and all are likely to be handicapped. Karyotypes were abnormal in four of nine fetuses tested (44%). Associated cranial abnormalities observed in various numbers of fetuses included ventriculomegaly, the "lemon" sign, a flat basioccipital, "beaked" tectum, and bone defect. A wide variety of neural and nonneural anomalies were associated with cephaloceles. At least one sonographically observed concomitant neural or nonneural axis abnormality or an abnormal karyotype was present in nine of 15 fetuses (60%). Some associated neural malformations noted pathologically were not observed prenatally. Cranial meningoceles were not accurately distinguished from encephaloceles sonographically, and they also were associated with a poor prognosis. Comparison of findings in fetuses with cephaloceles with those of 15 fetuses with cystic hygromas revealed that the two abnormalities can usually be distinguished by the relationship of the mass with the neck and by other cranial findings present in fetuses with cephaloceles but absent in association with cystic hygromas. 
Classification and natural history of clinically identifiable subtypes of cerebral infarction. We describe the incidence and natural history of four clinically identifiable subgroups of cerebral infarction in a community-based study of 675 patients with first-ever stroke. Of 543 patients with a cerebral infarct, 92 (17%) had large anterior circulation infarcts with both cortical and subcortical involvement (total anterior circulation infarcts, TACI); 185 (34%) had more restricted and predominantly cortical infarcts (partial anterior circulation infarcts, PACI); 129 (24%) had infarcts clearly associated with the vertebrobasilar arterial territory (posterior circulation infarcts, POCI); and 137 (25%) had infarcts confined to the territory of the deep perforating arteries (lacunar infarcts, LACI). There were striking differences in natural history between the groups. The TACI group had a negligible chance of good functional outcome and mortality was high. More than twice as many deaths were due to the complications of immobility than to direct neurological sequelae of the infarct. Patients in the PACI group were much more likely to have an early recurrent stroke than were patients in other groups. Those in the POCI group were at greater risk of a recurrent stroke later in the first year after the index event but had the best chance of a good functional outcome. Despite the small anatomical size of the infarcts in the LACI group, many patients remained substantially handicapped. The findings have important implications for the planning of stroke treatment trials and suggest that various therapies could be directed specifically at the subgroups. 
Hepatocellular expression of lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 in chronic hepatitis. T lymphocyte-mediated cytolytic immune reactions are considered a major cause of hepatocyte injury in chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. To further investigate local immune responses, we studied the expression of lymphocyte antigens and cell-cell interaction molecules known to be involved in effector-target cell interactions by light and electron microscopy in liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. CD8+ lymphocytes were found to be the predominant population of cells in the inflammatory infiltrate in chronic hepatitis B and non-A, non-B hepatitis. In contrast, CD4+ cells constituted a comparably higher proportion of cells and were more numerous than CD8+ cells in chronic autoimmune hepatitis. In both viral and autoimmune hepatitis, a substantial portion of lymphocytes expressed activation antigens such as T11/3 (CD2R) and IL-2-R (CD25). Lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3 (CD58), which mediates lymphocyte adhesion and activation and is the natural ligand of the CD2/T11 lymphocyte surface receptor, could be demonstrated on endothelial cells and hepatocytes. Hepatocellular lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3 expression in chronic hepatitis showed membranous and cytoplasmic staining of hepatocytes and had a positive correlation with the degree of inflammatory activity. These results suggest that effector-target interactions between hepatocytes and lymphocytes mediated by the lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3/CD2 pathway play a role in chronic inflammatory liver disease. Possible functional consequences of this interaction include enhancement of antigen-specific immune reactions and antigen-independent mechanisms of T cell activation, which may contribute considerably to the degree of inflammatory activity and tissue damage in chronic hepatitis. 
IgG reactivity in the spinal cord and motor cortex in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The spinal cord and motor cortex of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) were examined with immunohistochemical methods for the presence of IgG. In 13 of 15 spinal cords, a population of motoneurons stained positively for IgG in a granular pattern, characteristic of binding to the rough endoplasmic reticulum. In 6 of 11 motor cortices, a proportion of pyramidal cells also stained positively for IgG. No such reactivity was noted in motoneurons of control human tissues, although positive IgG staining was present in astrocytes of ALS and control specimens. Reactive microglia and/or macrophages were detected in the territory of degenerating pyramidal tracts and ventral horns. The surface of most of these cells stained positively for IgG, and 50% stained positively for HLA-DR. The accumulation of IgG in motoneurons and the presence of immunologically active macrophages provide additional evidence for the participation of immunologic factors in the pathogenesis of ALS. 
Survival of patients with well-differentiated astrocytomas diagnosed in the era of computed tomography. We report 25 verified cases of well-differentiated cerebral astrocytomas in adults treated between 1978 and 1988. All patients were diagnosed by computed tomographic (CT) scans, with 5 undergoing a craniotomy for debulking and 20 undergoing a biopsy alone. The median survival for the entire group was 8.2 years, the longest survival yet reported for a series of patients with these tumors. A review of the literature suggests that the longer survival observed in more recent series is the result of the earlier diagnosis of tumors afforded by modern brain imaging. Twenty of our patients presented with seizures in the absence of any other focal findings and would probably not have had a biopsy in the era before CT scans until their tumors had progressed. Only 8% of our patients had papilledema at the time of presentation, in contrast to almost half of the patients with low-grade astrocytomas reported before 1975, supporting the hypothesis that patients in the CT era are diagnosed earlier. None of our patients died from progressive low-grade disease. One patient died from a squamous cell cancer, and 7 died as a consequence of their tumors dedifferentiating into a more malignant astrocytoma or glioblastoma multiforme, with a median time of approximately 5 years after the diagnosis. Our findings, together with the available data in the literature, suggest that death from a focal low-grade astrocytoma, in the absence of malignant degeneration, may be a rare event. Consequently, future therapeutic efforts should be targeted at preventing dedifferentiation. 
A comparison of adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. A comparison and survival analysis of 203 patients (21%) with adenocarcinoma and 756 (79%) with squamous cell cancer of the cervix for the time period 1970-1985 is reported. The mean number of new cases of adenocarcinoma (N = 12) remained the same, while squamous cell cases decreased from 57 to 32. The clinical features were compared; oral contraceptive usage, node status, diabetes, and symptoms of bleeding were not related to cell type. Nulliparity was more frequent in patients with adenocarcinoma, whereas obesity and smoking were more frequent in patients with squamous cell cancer. Survival in stage I was significantly influenced by the cell type. Patients with stage I squamous cell disease had a 90% 5-year survival, compared with 60% for adenocarcinoma (P less than .0001). Other features that influenced survival included node status (P = .001), poor differentiation of tumor histology (P = .001), diabetes (P = .001), and Papanicolaou smear interval (P = .001). Patients undergoing radical hysterectomy were analyzed separately, and adenocarcinoma cell type significantly influenced survival (P = .0008). Patients with stage II squamous cell disease had a 62% survival, compared with 47% for adenocarcinoma (P = .01); patients with stage III squamous cell disease had a 36% survival, compared with 8% for adenocarcinoma (P = .002). The percentage of adenocarcinoma has increased because of the decreased number of patients with squamous cell disease. Stage-for-stage survival is significantly decreased for patients with adenocarcinoma as opposed to squamous cell disease. 
Renoduodenal fistula in a patient with chronic nephrostomy drainage: a case report. We describe the occurrence of a renoduodenal fistula related to a nephrostomy tube in a patient with xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis and renal calculi. The patient was successfully treated by nephrectomy. Etiological, diagnostic and therapeutic aspects are discussed. 
Piezogenic wrist papules: a common and asymptomatic finding. The first description of piezogenic wrist papules is presented. Twenty-nine persons were examined; 76% had pedal papules and 86% had wrist papules. Piezogenic papules are a common, nonhereditary finding and are not secondary to an inherent connective tissue defect. 
Effects of radiation on fixation of non-cemented porous-coated implants in a canine model. A non-weight-bearing porous-coated rod was implanted bilaterally in the proximal part of the humerus in thirty-five adult male mongrel dogs. In all of the animals, one limb was treated with radiation and the opposite limb served as the control. In twenty-one animals, the dose was 1000 centigrays (rads) and in fourteen, it was 500 centigrays. The strength of fixation and the volume fraction of ingrowth of bone were determined two, four, and eight weeks after the operation in the group that received 1000 centigrays and two and four weeks after the operation in the group that received 500 centigrays. Treatment with 500 centigrays had no significant effect on the strength of fixation or the amount of ingrowth of bone. In contrast, at two weeks, treatment with 1000 centigrays had reduced the strength of fixation to 50 per cent of the control value (p less than 0.01), although, at four and eight weeks, the strength of fixation was not significantly different than that in the control limb. The amount of ingrowth of bone in the irradiated limb was significantly reduced at two weeks (30 per cent of the control value) (p less than 0.01), four weeks (70 per cent of the control value) (p less than 0.05), and eight weeks (56 per cent of the control value) (p less than 0.05). 
Esophagogastric neoplasms: palliation with a modified gianturco stent. Self-expanding metallic stents of a modified Gianturco design were used for palliative treatment of malignant esophagogastric strictures. Over a 10-month period, 10 stents were placed in nine patients. All patients with severe dysphagia due to malignant strictures in whom all other treatment options had failed were candidates for these stents. Neither extensive length of esophageal involvement nor complete esophageal obstruction was a contraindication. All stents were placed with fluoroscopic guidance without any technical failures or procedural morbidity or mortality. Mild reflux occurred in three patients in whom the stent tubes straddled the distal esophageal sphincter. Five patients were still alive after 1-8 months. The remaining four patients died 6-28 weeks after stent placement; all stents were patent at the time of death. These stents are easy to insert, safe, and reasonably effective for short-term palliative treatment of esophagogastric neoplasms. 
Transduodenal exploration of the common bile duct in patients with nondilated ducts. Exploration of the small common bile duct can be technically difficult and is associated with a significant risk of ductal injury or late stricture, or both. Transduodenal common duct exploration after sphincteroplasty (TCDE/S) is an alternative method of duct exploration that avoids choledochotomy. Cholecystectomy followed by TCDE/S was performed upon 28 patients with nondilated ducts and suspected choledocholithiasis. Common duct stones were retrieved in 17 patients. Failure to retrieve stones in the remaining 11 patients was attributed to either false-positive results of cholangiography, forceful passage of stones into the duodenum during the initial insertion of a Fogarty catheter through the cystic duct or a false-negative finding at duct exploration. There was no perioperative mortality. Two patients had asymptomatic postoperative hyperamylasemia. One patient had postoperative pancreatitis, hyperbilirubinemia and cholangitis that resolved with antibiotic therapy by the eighth postoperative day. Other complications included wound infection, delayed gastric emptying, pneumonia and otitis media. The over-all morbidity rate was 28.6 per cent. Long term follow-up was obtained in all 28 patients. All patients in the follow-up group are free of recurrent biliary tract disease. TCDE/S appears to be a safe and effective method of exploring the nondilated common bile duct. 
Acute catastrophic complications of balloon aortic valvuloplasty. The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry Investigators. Among the initial 492 patients who underwent balloon aortic valvuloplasty as part of the Mansfield Investigational Device Exemption Protocol, 31 (6.3%) had acute catastrophic complications. These included ventricular perforation in nine (1.8%), seven women and two men; six cases (67%) involved serial balloon inflations and seven (78%) also involved dual balloon inflations. In six (67%) of the nine patients perforation was fatal. In four patients studied at necropsy, the perforation involved the base of the lateral left ventricular free wall. Pericardiocentesis was performed in five patients, three of whom survived with (one patient) or without (two patients) operative repair. Acute, severe aortic regurgitation developed in four patients (0.8%), all women. None had significant regurgitation before valvuloplasty; dual balloons were used in two of the four. All three patients who underwent emergency valve replacement survived. A fourth patient died 2 days after valvuloplasty without operative intervention. Fatal cardiac arrest complicated balloon aortic valvuloplasty in 13 patients (2.6%), including 7 with cardiogenic shock and 4 with refractory ventricular arrhythmias. Of the seven with shock, four had been treated with serial balloon inflations; dual balloons were used in three. In two of three patients studied at necropsy, the aortic valve was observed to be congenitally bicuspid. A fatal cerebrovascular accident occurred in two patients (0.4%); it was hemorrhagic in one, embolic in another. Both patients were treated with serial (including one dual) balloon inflations. Limb amputation was required in three patients (0.6%), two women and one man; in two patients amputation was above the knee, in the third patient it was limited to two toes. 
Extraspinal causes of lumbosacral radiculopathy. Twelve of 12,125 patients who had been referred during a seven-year period to a specialist in spinal disorders were found to have an extraspinal cause of radiculopathy or neuropathy of the lower extremity. The records of these twelve patients were reviewed retrospectively. The average age of the twelve patients was sixty-five years (range, forty-two to seventy-seven years). The cause of the symptoms was an occult malignant tumor in nine patients and a hematoma, an aneurysm of the obturator artery, or a neurilemoma of the sciatic nerve in the others. The average time from the onset of symptoms to the final diagnosis was eight months (range, one month to two years). The most useful test for determination of the correct diagnosis was computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen and pelvis. Computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the spine and bone-scanning of the whole body were of little help in localizing the disease. In four of the twelve patients, an operation was performed on the basis of an incorrect diagnosis. In dealing with elderly patients who have radiculopathy, one should be suspicious that the cause is outside the spine. 
The clinical diagnosis of migraine: the beginning of therapy. Clear symptoms and signs are found in patients during severe migraine attacks. Diagnostic difficulties are encountered in eliciting this episodic clinical picture. A label of migraine, however, is only the beginning: factors that precipitate attacks, fears aroused in the migraineur and the failure, or partial efficacy, of acute and prophylactic therapy need also to be determined. If migraine is complicated by an additional headache, the analysis becomes more difficult, but the diagnosis still has to be accurate. This, however, is not always possible at the initial interview. A successful consultation should be more than just diagnostic; it is the beginning of treatment. 
Postirradiation angiosarcoma of the vaginal vault. We describe a unique case of an angiosarcoma arising in the vaginal vault 21 years after hysterectomy and radiotherapy for stage I carcinoma of the cervix. We also review the literature regarding angiosarcomas arising after previous radiation therapy for gynecologic malignancies. 
Ruptured aneurysm of the descending thoracic and thoracoabdominal aorta. Analysis according to size and treatment. Acute rupture was confirmed at operation in 117 patients treated for descending thoracic or thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. Descending thoracic (n = 80) aortic rupture occurred into lung or esophagus in 8, the pleural cavity in 49, and the mediastinum in 23. Upper abdominal aortic (n = 37) rupture occurred into peritoneal cavity in 3 and into retroperitoneal tissues in 34. Aneurysmal size (range, 5 to 17 cm; median, 8 cm) could be determined retrospectively in 86 patients; 59 (74%) descending thoracic and 27 (73%) abdominal aorta. Size (external diameter) in the former was 8 (14%), 5 to 6 cm; 21 (36%), 6 to 8 cm; 23 (39%), 8 to 10 cm; and 7 (12%) greater than 10 cm. Size at the abdominal site was similar. Thus size was not greater than 10 cm in 52 (88%) (range, 5 to 10 cm), which contradicts opinions that thoracic aneurysms rupture only when size exceeds 10 cm. Twenty-nine patients (25%) were hypotensive (systolic blood pressure less than 100 mmHg), of whom 16 (55%) had cardiac arrest before operation. Associated conditions included advanced age (greater than or equal to 75 years) in 26 (22%), coronary artery disease in 41 (35%), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 46 (39%), renal insufficiency in 25 (21%), and cardiovascular disease in 22 (18%). The overall early survival rate (30-day) was 89 of 117 patients (76%); 69% in patients with hypotension, 56% of patients with cardiac arrest, 88% in good-risk patients. Five-year (Kaplan-Meier) survival was 28%. Because elective operation is associated with 92% survival, this should be considered before rupture when aneurysm is 5 cm or larger in good-risk patients, in patients with symptomatic aneurysms, and in most patients with larger aneurysms. 
Basal ganglia mass lesions in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. A 2-year-old boy suffered aphasia, hypotonia, dystonia, and loss of activity and spontaneous speech during an active stage of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis with pericarditis, fever, anemia, and a high antinuclear antibody titer. These neurologic signs slowly improved with corticosteroid treatment but fluctuated over 1 year. The neuroimaging studies revealed irregular mass lesions in the basal ganglia bilaterally mainly involving the globus pallidus. They gradually decreased in size and almost disappeared after 1 year. A stereotactic brain biopsy revealed a slight proliferation of astrocytes. Chorioretinitis was also observed during the clinical course. A chronic inflammatory process involving cerebral vessels was suspected, although angiography did not demonstrate cerebral vasculitis. The possibility of central nervous system lymphoma could not be eliminated. The type of aphasia and the relation to the lesion sites are discussed. 
Subependymoma with rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation: report of a case and literature review. A unique gliomesenchymal neoplasm, consisting of a subependymoma, a form of low-grade glioma, and a rhabdomyosarcoma, is described. It arose and recurred in the brain stem of a 52-year-old man. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated the presence of a neuroectodermal marker S-100 protein within some sarcoma cells. The occurrence of this rare tumor supports the concept that striated muscle may derive from a neuroectodermal precursor lesion. 
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for nonmetastatic osteosarcoma of the extremities. Between September 1986 and December 1988, 125 patients with osteosarcoma of the extremities entered the second neoadjuvant study at the authors' institution. Patients received preoperatively two cycles of methotrexate (MTX) intravenously, followed by cisplatinum (CDP) intraarterially, plus adriamycin (ADM) intravenously. After surgery, the patients classified as "good responders" (more than 90% tumor necrosis) received ADM, MTX, and CDP, while the "poor responders" (less than 90% tumor necrosis) had a longer chemotherapy that included ifosfamide and etoposide (VP-16) in addition to MTX, ADM, and CDP. Limb salvage was possible in 85% of patients, 8% had an amputation, and 7% had a rotationplasty. The surgical margins were adequate (radical or wide) in 88% of cases and inadequate (marginal or intralesional) in 12%. At an average follow-up period of 28 months (range, 13 to 41), 109 patients (87%) remained continuously disease free, 15 (12%) relapsed with pulmonary metastases, and one patient (0.8%) had a local recurrence. Compared with the first neoadjuvant study at the authors' institution that used only MTX and CDP preoperatively, the percentage of limb salvages, "good responders," and continuously disease-free survival at two years was significantly higher in the second Rizzoli neoadjuvant study (85%, 74%, and 87% versus 77%, 52%, and 59%). Systemic toxicity because of chemotherapy was superimposable. A retrospective analysis of the real dose intensity for each patient demonstrated a correlation between the intensity of chemotherapy and prognosis. 
Neuroleptic use, parkinsonian symptoms, tardive dyskinesia, and associated factors in child and adolescent psychiatric patients. OBJECTIVE: The authors' goal was to determine the prevalence of and risk factors for neuroleptic-induced movement disorders in a group of psychiatrically hospitalized children and adolescents. METHOD: They evaluated the presence or absence of parkinsonism, tardive dyskinesia, and akathisia in 104 children and adolescents who were in residence in or admitted over a 6-month period to a state-operated child psychiatric center. They applied a standardized, structured assessment procedure used in research on adult and geriatric psychiatric patients and the mentally retarded. RESULTS: The prevalence of parkinsonism among the 61 subjects at risk was 34% and was significantly associated with longer neuroleptic treatment periods immediately before evaluation. The prevalence of treatment-emergent tardive dyskinesia among the 41 subjects at risk was 12% and showed no association with quantitative neuroleptic treatment variables. However, patients with tardive dyskinesia were significantly more likely to have a family history of mental illness and significantly less likely to have a history of assaultive behavior. A pattern of complex pharmacological responses for parkinsonism and tardive dyskinesia, some of which are not typical of those most commonly reported in adults, was seen in this group of young patients. CONCLUSIONS: The study data highlight the acute sensitivity of the neuroleptic-treated child and adolescent to the development of parkinsonism, the possible role of certain patient characteristics in the vulnerability to develop tardive dyskinesia, and the possibility that neuroleptic-induced side effects experienced by children and adolescents differ in some ways from those experienced by adults. The data further strongly support the need for systematic monitoring of neuroleptic-treated child and adolescent patients for a full range of side effects. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for unstable angina. Coronary angioplasty is an effective treatment for patients with angina at rest, either refractory or initially stabilized but returning despite pharmacologic treatment, and with early postinfarction angina. The procedure has a high initial success rate, but there is an increased risk of major complications resulting from a higher incidence of acute closure, which may be related to preexisting thrombus. Resolution of this problem may be achieved by the use of more potent antiplatelet treatment, pretreatment with thrombolytic agents, or treatment that can be applied locally (e.g., laser energy, atherectomy) at the site of the unstable plaque. Results in this study have been obtained from selected groups of patients: those with predominantly single-vessel disease and well-preserved left ventricular function. It remains to be determined whether the same benefits can be achieved in patients with multivessel disease or in those who have severely reduced left ventricular function. 
Blood supply of nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia. The number of patients who suffer from radicular symptoms due to degenerative diseases of the lumbar spine is increasing. This article discusses the differences in anatomic structure between spinal nerve roots and peripheral nerves. Blood supply and cerebrospinal fluid flow are explained, and the effect of mechanical compression, direct and indirect, is shown as a possible cause of symptoms. 
Relative effects of diarrhea, fever, and dietary energy intake on weight gain in rural Bangladeshi children. Quantitative studies of morbidity, food intake, and somatic growth were done prospectively during 14 mo for 70 children aged 5-18 mo in two Bangladeshi villages. When random-effect regression models were used, monthly changes in weight were inversely related to proportions of days in the month with fever and diarrhea and positively related to energy intake per kilogram body weight. Interestingly, weight changes did not vary with age in this interval. Estimates indicate that increasing energy intakes to the recommended World Health Organization level would have a significantly greater effect on weight gain than would the elimination of diarrhea and fever. With energy at recommended intake and diarrhea and fever prevalence as found in US children, weight gain is predicted to be near that of the international reference population. Therefore, interventions aimed at improving dietary intake may be as important as infection-control programs for improving growth of children in poor developing nations. 
Effects of Vibrio cholerae recombinant strains on rabbit ileum in vivo. Enterotoxin production and myoelectric activity. Previous studies have identified the effects of Vibrio cholerae and its enterotoxin, choleragen (CT A+B+), on the myoelectric activity of rabbit ileal loops in vivo. The response was defined as the migrating action potential complex, the single ring contraction that propels luminal contents aborad. In this study the same rabbit model is used to assess whether migrating action potential complex activity or fluid output is induced by recombinant strains of V. cholerae that produce no subunit of cholera toxin (CT A-B-) or only by the inactive binding subunit (CT A-B+). Three live strains were studied: El Tor wild-type N16961 (CT A+B+) and recombinant strains CVD106 (CT A-B+) and JBK70 (CT A-B-). Controls received sterile culture broth. Migrating action potential complex frequency in animals inoculated with CT A+B+ was significantly increased compared with that in all other experimental groups (P less than 0.01). Fluid output was also increased in animals inoculated with CT A+B+ compared with fluid output in all other groups (P less than 0.05). Migrating action potential complex frequency and fluid output in rabbits given CT A-B+ or CT A-B- did not differ from activity in controls. How these recombinant strains induce diarrhea is unknown, but the mechanism may involve bacterial colonization or production of an unknown toxin. 
A phase II study of idarubicin in the treatment of measurable gastric cancer. Idarubicin is one of the new anthracycline analogues. It has a higher therapeutic index than either doxorubicin or daunorubicin in a variety of murine leukemias and solid tumors. The authors performed a multicenter Phase II trial of idarubicin in patients with advanced gastric cancer. Seventeen patients with measurable metastatic disease were entered into the trial and treated with idarubicin at a starting dose of 15 mg/m2. This dose was escalated or reduced according to toxicity. There were no documented responses. The dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression. These data did not compared favourably with the data on doxorubicin in the treatment of gastric carcinoma. A conclusion could not be reached on whether idarubicin has minimal activity in the treatment of gastric carcinoma. 
Frequency of adverse systemic reactions after fluorescein angiography. Results of a prospective study. Intravenous fluorescein angiography is a commonly performed and extraordinarily valuable diagnostic procedure. The frequency of adverse reactions after angiography has varied considerably in previous reports. In a prospective study of 2789 angiographic procedures in 2025 patients, the authors found that the percentage of adverse reactions depended strongly on the patient's angiographic history. Overall, adverse reactions followed 4.8% of the angiographic procedures. These reactions included nausea (2.9%), vomiting (1.2%), flushing/itching/hives (0.5%), and other reactions (dyspnea, syncope, excessive sneezing) (0.2%). No cases of anaphylaxis, myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, or seizures occurred. The percentage of reactions was 1.8% for patients who had had previous angiography without ever having had an adverse reaction. In contrast, the percentage of reactions was 48.6% for patients who had had an adverse reaction to angiography previously. 
Budd-Chiari syndrome in Israel: predisposing factors, prognosis, and early identification of high-risk patients. In twenty-seven patients with venography-documented Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS), underlying diseases included polycythemia vera (nine patients), membranous occlusion of the inferior vena cava (three), and cirrhosis (two). In only nine patients did the syndrome occur in the absence of any predisposing factor. All patients with a membranous web were relatively young (mean age 29 years) and were born in Morocco. With regard to prognosis, three groups could be delineated. Eight patients formed a rapidly progressive group, with mean survival from first symptom of only 4.3 weeks, and were characterized mainly by their relatively advanced age and minimal enlargement of the spleen. 
Abnormal coronary vasoconstriction as a predictor of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty in patients with unstable angina pectoris. BACKGROUND. High rates of restenosis after coronary angioplasty have been reported in patients with vasospastic angina. This study was designed to determine whether the occurrence of abnormal coronary vasoconstriction, detected by means of hyperventilation testing before angioplasty, influences the risk of restenosis after successful dilation. METHODS. Hyperventilation testing was performed 0 to 4 days before coronary angioplasty in 106 consecutive patients with unstable angina and single-vessel coronary artery disease. Abnormal coronary vasoconstriction was considered present if hyperventilation-induced myocardial ischemia occurred during the recovery phase of the test. All patients had follow-up angiography 8 to 12 months after angioplasty. RESULTS. Abnormal coronary vasoconstriction was observed in 48 patients (group 1), whereas 58 patients (group 2) had either a negative response throughout the test or a positive response only during the overbreathing phase of the hyperventilation test. Angioplasty was successful in 40 patients in group 1 and 51 in group 2. Restenosis was documented in 29 patients (73 percent) in group 1 and 13 (25 percent) in group 2 (relative risk of restenosis, 2.84; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.69 to 4.28; P less than 0.001). In a multivariate analysis, the following three characteristics were independently related to the risk of restenosis (in descending order of importance): ST-segment elevation during spontaneous ischemic attacks (P less than 0.001), hyperventilation-induced abnormal coronary vasoconstriction (P less than 0.001), and the presence of a lesion more than 10 mm long in the left anterior descending coronary artery (P less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. In patients with unstable angina and single-vessel coronary artery disease who have been selected for coronary angioplasty, the presence of hyperventilation-induced abnormal coronary vasoconstriction identifies a subgroup at high risk for restenosis. 
Blood analyses and survival in symptom- and survey-detected lung cancer patients. Commonly recorded blood analyses as indicators of low- and-high risk patients with lung cancer were studied by comparing symptom- and survey-detected patients. During the period 1976-1985, in 41 of 189 non-small-cell lung cancer patients in Western Norway, lung cancer was detected by chest X-ray survey performed in the preventive tuberculosis screening programme. After adjusting for other variables, including developmental stage, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was the only blood analysis which discriminated symptom-detected patients (high ESR) from survey-detected patients (low ESR). Survey-detected patients had a better short-term survival. In multivariate survival analyses leucocyte count, lactate dehydrogenase activity and ESR were significant prognostic factors, in addition to advanced stage and detection due to symptoms. We conclude that common blood analyses such as ESR provide supplementary information concerning low- and high-risk lung cancer patients. 
Storage of saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol-suspended red cells in a new plastic container: polyvinylchloride plasticized with butyryl-n-trihexyl-citrate. Blood collection and component preparation have been performed in integrally connected multiple plastic containers made with a new plastic. This polyvinylchloride (PVC) container plasticized with butyryl-n-trihexyl-citrate (BTHC) is a new material for blood storage; it contains no di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP). After removal of plasma and buffy coat, the red cells were suspended in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) medium. After 42-day refrigerator storage, the total adenine nucleotide concentration remained the same as the initial concentration in the red cells, whereas ATP levels had decreased to 61 percent of the initial value. The 2,3 DPG concentration was 62 percent of normal on Day 7 and 21 percent on Day 14. Glucose consumption, lactate production, potassium leakage from red cells, and pH levels were similar to those found after storage in DEHP-plasticized containers under the same conditions. After 42 days, hemolysis levels were 0.56 +/- 0.21 percent and 0.42 +/- 0.17 percent in two series of units mixed weekly and 0.70 +/- 0.27 percent in units stored unmixed. Although even higher levels of hemolysis were observed in the units stored unmixed and used for 24-hour posttransfusion survival, the autologous red cell recovery results were excellent (83.2 +/- 5.1%, n = 8). BTHC-plasticized PVC is found to be a suitable material for 42-day storage of red cells in SAGM solution. 
Intracanalicular acoustic neurinomas. The cases of 16 patients with acoustic neurinomas confined to the intracanalicular area are presented. These represent 2.7% of the 600 patients with acoustic neurinomas consecutively operated upon at the Neurosurgical Clinic at Nordstadt Hospital during the last 8 years. The comparatively earlier onset of vestibular symptoms and signs was characteristic of this group and precipitated diagnosis. The diagnostic reliability of magnetic resonance imaging was at least equivalent to that of air computed tomographic cisternography. Complete tumor removal was accomplished via the suboccipital approach in all patients, with 100% preservation of facial nerve and facial function; the cochlear nerve was preserved anatomically in 100% of the patients and functionally in 57%. No recurrence has occurred during follow-up periods of up to 8 years in all 16 patients. A broad spectrum of the current literature is considered, and purely intracanalicular acoustic neurinomas are discussed with regard to clinical characteristics, diagnostic steps-including neuroradiological and neurophysiological approaches-and surgical treatment and results. 
Improvement of spontaneous pregnancy rate after stopping gonadotropin therapy for anovulatory infertility. In a prospective study, 140 patients with infertility because of ovulatory factors (group A) were followed up for 6 months after failure to achieve pregnancy using human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) therapy. They included cases of oligomenorrhea, polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD), and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea. They were treated with hMG alone or in combination with clomiphene citrate or gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist analog. The control group (B) included 83 infertile patients because of similar ovulatory factors. They were followed up for 6 months not preceded by ovulation induction. The overall pregnancy rate (PR) in group A (20.7%) was significantly higher than group B (7.2%). The PR was significantly higher in oligomenorrhea and PCOD patients when compared with the control group. There was no significant difference in the hypogonadotropic group. 
Adjuvant brachytherapy for treatment of chest wall sarcomas. Thirty patients treated with surgical resection and brachytherapy for chest wall sarcoma at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center from 1980 through 1987 were reviewed. Patients selected to receive adjuvant irradiation were those for whom there was doubt as to the completeness of surgical resection. Overall 5-year survival and locoregional control after brachytherapy were 65% and 54%, respectively. Locoregional control was similar for tumors treated at initial diagnosis (12 patients), at the time of recurrence (13 patients), or for tumors that were metastatic to the chest wall (five patients). Six patients with tumors larger than 10 cm in maximum dimension had a locoregional recurrence rate of 69% versus a recurrence rate of 39% for 18 patients with smaller tumors (p = 0.27). Fifty-four percent of high-grade tumors recurred locoregionally versus 28% of low-grade tumors (p = 0.37). Bone invasion or the presence of positive resection margins was not clearly associated with a higher locoregional failure rate. Only one patient (1/28; 7%) was known to have had recurrence within the irradiated area. Eight patients (8/28; 37%) had recurrence adjacent to the implanted area, and the precise failure site could not be determined for the remaining two patients. Because of the relatively high risk of regional versus in-field recurrence, patients with chest wall sarcoma who receive adjuvant treatment should be treated primarily with external-beam irradiation to allow more generous coverage of the tumor bed. Brachytherapy could be used as a tumor bed "boost" treatment. In patients undergoing resection of recurrent tumor in a previously irradiated site, adjuvant brachytherapy, without external-beam irradiation, should be considered to reduce the risk of extensive soft tissue necrosis. 
Evaluation of three oral dosages of ondansetron in the prevention of nausea and emesis associated with cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin chemotherapy. We assessed the antiemetic efficacy and safety of three different oral doses of ondansetron (GR 38032F), a novel serotonin type-3 receptor antagonist, in three consecutive series of 20 breast cancer patients receiving cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-based chemotherapy for the first time. Patients received oral doses of 8 mg, 4 mg, or 1 mg of ondansetron three times daily for 2 days, with the first dose given 30 minutes before the cyclophosphamide infusion. We then evaluated the efficacy of a conventional antiemetic regimen of intravenous lorazepam, metoclopramide, and diphenhydramine given before chemotherapy and 10 mg prochlorperazine given orally twice on study day 1 and three times on study day 2 in a fourth series of 20 patients with comparable characteristics. The number of emetic episodes, assessment of nausea and appetite, and adverse events were recorded throughout the 2-day study period. Pretreatment and posttreatment clinical laboratory data were also collected. No emesis was observed during the 2-day study period in 17 (85%), 13 (65%), and 11 (55%) patients treated with 8-mg, 4-mg, and 1-mg ondansetron doses, respectively, and in seven (35%) patients who received conventional therapy. The incidence and intensity of nausea were lower with increasing doses of ondansetron and were lower than in the conventional group. Ondansetron-related side effects were generally mild and reversible and did not appear to increase in a dose-dependent manner. These effects included headache, stomach cramps, diarrhea, fatigue, and elevated serum transaminase concentrations. One patient who received three 1 mg doses of ondansetron experienced tremors and muscle twitching. Oral ondansetron is an effective and safe antiemetic for patients receiving noncisplatin cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-based chemotherapy, and its antiemetic activity appears to be dose-related. 
Myocardial infarction due to intracoronary thrombi without significant coronary artery disease in systemic lupus erythematosus. Acute myocardial infarction is a potentially fatal complication of SLE. Reported mechanisms include atherosclerosis, arteritis and coronary arterial spasm. The following case report presents a fourth possible cause; intracoronary thrombus with angiographically normal coronary arteries in a patient with active lupus and AMI. 
Percutaneous balloon pericardial window for patients with malignant pericardial effusion and tamponade. We performed percutaneous balloon pericardial window (PBPW) in 8 patients (age 40 to 70 yrs; 4 men, 4 women) with malignant pericardial effusion and tamponade. Pericardial window was indicated because they continued to drain greater than 100 ml/day of pericardial fluid through the pigtail catheter for greater than or equal to 3 days. A 0.038 inch guidewire was advanced through the pigtail catheter into the pericardial space and then the catheter was removed. A 20 mm diameter, 3 cm long balloon dilating catheter was advanced to straddle the parietal pericardium. Manual inflations were performed until the waist produced by the pericardium disappeared. All patients tolerated the procedure well with minimal discomfort and with no complications. A left or bilateral pleural effusion occurred in all patients after PBPW. No patient developed recurrent pericardial tamponade at a mean follow-up of 6 +/- 2 months. Thus, PBPW is a useful and safe technique to avoid surgery in patients with malignant pericardial effusion and tamponade. 
Medullary arteries in aging and dementia. We examined sclerotic changes of the medullary arteries in 110 nonneuropsychiatric patients ranging in age from the second to the ninth decades, in 20 patients with subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy (Binswanger's disease), and in 20 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type. The principal sclerotic change was fibrohyaline thickening of the wall, which began to appear during the late fourth decade, increased in incidence gradually with age, and was most severe in patients with subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy. Morphometry showed that the sclerotic changes of the medullary arteries were most prominent in the frontal lobe, followed by the parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes, in both the nonneuropsychiatric and demented groups. The sclerotic rate in the frontal lobe of patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type was slightly higher than that in the nonneuropsychiatric patients (p less than 0.05) but far less than that in the patients with subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy (p less than 0.001). The sclerotic rate correlated well with the degree of ischemic white matter changes as well as with blood pressure. 
Serum cholesterol and mortality among Japanese-American men. The Honolulu (Hawaii) Heart Program. Hawaiian men of Japanese ancestry followed up for 18 or more years after a baseline examination showed a quadratic distribution of death rates at different levels of serum cholesterol. Mortality from cancer progressively decreased and mortality from coronary heart disease progressively increased with rising levels of serum cholesterol. There was a positive association between baseline serum cholesterol levels and deaths from coronary heart disease at 0 to 6 years, 7 to 12 years, and 13 years and longer after examination. The inverse relationship between cancer and serum cholesterol levels was stronger in the first 6 years than in the next 6 years and, although still inverse, lost statistical significance after 13 years. Cancers of the colon and lung showed the strongest association with low baseline serum cholesterol levels, while gastric or rectal cancer failed to show this association. Organ specificity and persistence of the inverse association beyond 6 years suggest that the nutritional demands of cancers may not entirely explain the inverse association with some cancers. The quadratic distribution of deaths in this cohort remained after coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer were removed from the analysis. For the entire period of observation, the lowest mortalities were found in men with serum cholesterol levels between 4.65 and 6.18 mmol/L (between 180 and 239 mg/dL). Manipulation of serum cholesterol levels below this level would not be desirable if this were to result in increased risk of death from cancer or other disease. This study does not rule out this possibility. 
Gallstone lithotripsy: results when number of stones is excluded as a criterion for treatment. The Siemens Lithostar Plus protocol (Siemens Medical Systems, Iselin, NJ) allows investigators to perform gallstone lithotripsy on patients regardless of the number of stones they have, provided the stones occupy less than 50% of the gallbladder lumen. The purpose of this study was to determine the interrelationships between stone burden, fragmentation response, and stone-free rates when treatment is not limited to three stones or fewer. Of 200 patients initially examined, 80 (40%) underwent lithotripsy. The mean number of treatments per patient was 2.1, and the mean number of shock waves per patient was 7386. In 60 patients in whom 6-month follow-up was available, the overall stone-free rate, based on actual results, was 32% (19/60). The stone-free rates for solitary stones, two or three stones, and four or more stones were 50%, 12%, and 26%, respectively. Regardless of number of stones, patients who ultimately became stone free had significantly smaller mean fragment size (0.25 cm) 2 weeks after lithotripsy than did those who did not become stone free (0.51 cm). Retrospective volume analysis showed that seven (47%) of 15 patients with multiple stones occupying less than 2000 mm3 were stone free; none became stone free when this volume was exceeded. Lithotripsy remains a practical option for patients with solitary stones. Comparable stone-free rates to those achieved for solitary stones can be obtained in patients with multiple stones, regardless of their number, provided treatment is aggressive and the stone aggregate is less than 2000 mm3. 
Renin promoter SV40 T-antigen transgenic mouse. A model of primary renal vascular hyperplasia. Transgenic mice containing a ren-2 promoter T-antigen fusion construct (TAG+) develop renal vascular hypertrophy and hyperplasia associated with markedly suppressed renal renin mRNA, renal renin content, and plasma renin concentration. These animals are normotensive. In the present study, the renal and cardiovascular systems are characterized, revealing some surprising findings. Not only are the TAG+ mice normotensive in the face of pronounced renal pathology but also in the presence of an increase in plasma volume. These data raise interesting questions about blood pressure physiology and renal function of the TAG+ mice. Blood nitrogen urea of the TAG+ animal was markedly elevated and plasma creatinine level was in the normal range, indicating prerenal azotemia without renal failure. These findings are consistent with impaired renal perfusion with secondary volume expansion probably as the result of vascular hyperplasia. These transgenic animals provide a unique genetic model for studying the physiology of primarily renal vascular hyperplasia as well as blood pressure control in a low renin state. 
Ifosfamide, Fanconi's syndrome, and rickets. Three of 218 children treated with ifosfamide plus the uroprotectant mesna, in single- or combination-agent protocols, have developed Fanconi's renal syndrome, all of whom were in a subgroup of 86 children who had also received cisplatin or carboplatin therapy. Patients receiving ifosfamide who have received prior cisplatin (or carboplatin) are at significantly higher risk of developing Fanconi's syndrome than are those who have received no prior nephrotoxic therapy (P = .04). The role of prior nephrotoxic therapy, including cisplatin and its derivatives, and the total dose of ifosfamide should be considered in the assessment of this rare but serious and apparently irreversible side effect. 
Cardiac and whole-body [3H]noradrenaline kinetics during adrenaline infusion in man. 1. To investigate the possible role of adrenaline as a modulator of noradrenaline release from the sympathetic nervous system, the responses of cardiac and whole-body noradrenaline kinetics to intravenous infusions of adrenaline (30 ng min-1 kg-1) and matching saline placebo were determined at rest and during supine bicycle exercise in 16 patients undergoing cardiac catheterization, in whom beta-adrenoceptor antagonists had been discontinued for 72 h. 2. At rest and compared with placebo, infusion of adrenaline was associated with a small increase in arterial plasma noradrenaline from 211 +/- 29 pg/ml to 245 +/- 29 pg/ml (P less than 0.05). Increases in whole-body noradrenaline spillover to arterial plasma were larger (from 282 +/- 40 ng min-1 m-2 to 358 +/- 41 ng min-1 m-2, P less than 0.01) and there was a trend towards an increase in whole-body noradrenaline clearance. Cardiac noradrenaline clearance was modestly increased during adrenaline infusion, but cardiac noradrenaline spillover was not altered despite increases in heart rate and coronary sinus plasma flow. Adrenaline infusion was associated with symptomatic myocardial ischaemia in four of 14 patients with coronary heart disease. 3. Supine bicycle exercise was associated with significant increases in peripheral noradrenaline concentrations and in cardiac and whole-body noradrenaline spillover. The increases on exercise were not significantly different for these variables during saline and adrenaline infusions. 4. Infusion of adrenaline to produce 'physiological' increases in plasma adrenaline concentration was associated with an increase in total noradrenaline release, as assessed by whole-body noradrenaline spillover to plasma. 
National surveillance of dialysis-associated diseases in the United States, 1989. To determine trends in a variety of dialysis-associated diseases and practices, the Centers for Disease Control surveyed 1,867 chronic hemodialysis centers in the United States in 1989 in conjunction with the annual facility survey performed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The response rate to a mailed questionnaire was 92%. These 1,726 centers represented 122,734 patients and 32,486 staff members. The following results were found. 1) During the last 14 years, the incidence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection decreased from 3.0 to 0.1% among patients, and from 2.6 to 0.1% among staff members. Over the same time, the prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positivity declined from 7.8 to 1.4% among patients and from 0.9 to 0.3% among staff members. Hepatitis B vaccine was given by 92% of the centers. By the end of 1989, 19% of susceptible patients and 55% of susceptible staff members had received all three doses of hepatitis B vaccine. From 1982 to 1989, as a result of receiving vaccine, the prevalence of antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs) increased from 12 to 19% among patients and from 18 to 54% among staff. The incidence of non-A, non-B hepatitis in 1989 was reported to be 0.7% among patients and 0.1% among staff members. 2) Twenty-two percent of the centers reported pyrogenic reactions in the absence of septicemia among their patients, and 51% reported septicemia. 3) The reported incidence of dialysis dementia among hemodialysis patients was 0.2%, with a case fatality rate of 23%. 4) In 1989, 68% of centers reported that they reused disposable dialyzers; these centers treated 73% of the dialysis patient population. Among centers that reused disposable dialyzers, the average number of reuses ranged from 1 to 50 (mean, 12) and the maximum number of times a disposable dialyzer was ever reused ranged from 3 to 150 (mean, 28). Chemical germicides used for reprocessing dialyzers included formaldehyde, Renalin (a peracetic acid-hydrogen peroxide-based germicide), and glutaraldehyde-based germicides. Reuse of disposable dialyzers was not associated with any increased risk of acquiring HBV infection among either patients or staff. However, pyrogenic reactions occurring in clusters were reported more frequently in centers that reused conventional dialyzer membranes compared with centers that did not. This increased risk was associated only with centers that used Renalin or glutaraldehyde for reprocessing (not formaldehyde) and occurred with both automated and manual reprocessing systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Lack of effect of peritoneal endometriosis on fertility in the rabbit model. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study the isolated influence of peritoneal endometrial implants on fertility in an adhesion-free rabbit model. STUDY DESIGN: Thirty-two rabbits with endometrium implants were used; 31 rabbits with fat implants served as controls. In these rabbits parameters of early embryonic development were investigated. RESULTS: No significant differences were noted in ovulation, ovum pick-up, fertilization, tubal transport, and embryonic and fetal development. CONCLUSION: In the adhesion-free rabbit model, peritoneal implants of endometriosis do not have an effect on fertility. This supports the contention that therapies focused toward the implants are unlikely to change the pregnancy outcomes. Alternatively, it may cast doubts onto the relevance of animal models in studying this disease. 
Intraductal mucin-hypersecreting neoplasms of the pancreas. A clinicopathologic study of eight patients. Intraductal mucin-hypersecreting neoplasms of the pancreas with extreme dilatation of the main duct were studied in eight patients. They included five men and three women, aged 47-85 years. Five patients had a history of symptoms mimicking pancreatitis; four developed steatorrhea and/or diabetes. At endoscopic retrograde pancreatography, five patients showed an open ampulla filled with mucin, and six patients showed patchy filling defects in the ectatic main duct. Morphological examination showed extreme dilatation of the entire pancreatic duct in six patients and its tail segment in two patients. The duct segments filled with viscous mucin were lined by well-differentiated mucin-secreting cells, forming papillary foldings and occasionally showing cellular atypia. None of the patients had invasive tumor or metastasis. Six patients whose lesions were resected are alive and doing well (mean follow-up, 5.5 years). It is concluded that intraductal mucin-hypersecreting neoplasm is a pancreatic tumor with favorable prognosis. Because it shares many features with intraductal papillary neoplasm, a common pathogenesis of these pancreatic tumors is suggested. 
Quantification of vascular graft seeding by use of computer-assisted image analysis and genetically modified endothelial cells. Current methods for the evaluation of retention of endothelial cells seeded on vascular grafts are limited by the inability to specifically identify and quantitate seeded cells on a long-term basis. To address this problem we developed a method of quantification of graft surface coverage using genetic labeling of endothelial cells combined with computer-assisted image analysis. Rabbit aortic endothelial cells were transduced with a marker gene (lac-Z) and seeded on polytetrafluoroethylene grafts. After histochemical staining in which the genetically labeled cells turn blue, computer-assisted image analysis was used to measure the percentage of graft surface covered by the seeded cells. The utility of the method was evaluated by using it to assess the effect on graft coverage of seeded cell density and by precoating with fibronectin. Quantification of surface area coverage was automated and reproducible both between scans and between observers. Use of this method allowed the determination of a linear correlation between cell density in the seeding suspension and graft coverage (r2 = 0.93, p less than 0.0001). The method also permitted confirmation of the positive contribution of fibronectin coating to graft coverage by seeded cells: 73% coverage coated versus 8% coverage uncoated (p less than 0.0001). The ability of this method to specifically identify genetically marked endothelial cells and their progeny makes it attractive for use in studies targeted at optimization of graft coverage in vivo. 
Suppression by traumatic brain injury of spontaneous hemodynamic recovery from hemorrhagic shock in rats. The effects of brain trauma on cardiovascular and endocrine responses to hemorrhage were investigated. Forty anesthetized rats were randomly assigned to one of four groups of 10 rats each: a control group (Group C): a group with induction of hemorrhage at 16.2 ml/kg/10 min (Group H); a group with fluid-percussion brain injury at a peak pressure of 1.7 atm and an impulse duration of 25 msec (Group T); and a group receiving hemorrhagic shock following brain trauma (Group TH). Group C and T rats showed no significant alterations in cardiovascular function. At the end of hemorrhage there were no significant differences between Groups TH and H in the nadirs of mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) (mean values +/- standard error of the mean: 42 +/- 2 vs. 40 +/- 4 mm Hg) and stroke volume index (SVI) (0.61 +/- 0.11 vs. 0.66 +/- 0.10 ml/bt/kg); however, 1 hour post-hemorrhage recovery was blunted in Group TH compared to Group H (MABP 56 +/- 4 vs. 65 +/- 3 mm Hg; cardiac index 182 +/- 15 vs. 220 +/- 15 ml/min/kg; and SVI 0.71 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.81 +/- 0.06 ml/bt/kg). Since the two groups showed no significant differences in heart rate, preload (central venous pressure), and afterload (systemic vascular resistance), the reduced cardiac index recovery in Group TH is believed due to the attenuation of cardiac contractile performance. The Group TH preparation potentiated hormonal responses to hemorrhage with significantly higher epinephrine and aldosterone levels than in Group H. Brain trauma enhanced the norepinephrine response to hemorrhage, even at an injury level that by itself did not result in an increase in this hormone. Group TH rats also had significantly lower blood pH and HCO3 levels. The data suggest that brain trauma suppresses MABP and cardiac index recovery after hemorrhage mainly by inhibiting cardiac contractile performance, probably due to high catecholamine levels and severe metabolic acidosis. 
Aminophylline therapy for acute bronchospastic disease in the emergency room OBJECTIVE: To assess the role of aminophylline in the treatment of acute exacerbations of bronchospastic disease when used in addition to inhaled beta-agonists and intravenous corticosteroids. DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled intervention study. PATIENTS: One hundred thirty-three adult patients with either asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who presented to the emergency department with asthma or wheezing. INTERVENTIONS: All patients received therapy with both aerosolized metaproterenol and intravenous methyl-prednisolone. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either a loading dose of aminophylline followed by a routine infusion (n = 65) or an equal volume of placebo as a loading dose and infusion (n = 68). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At discharge from the emergency department, the median serum theophylline concentration for the aminophylline group was 54 mumol/L (9.7 mg/L). The two groups showed no differences (P greater than 0.2) in measurements of forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), or peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) at baseline or at 60 or 120 minutes after aminophylline administration. Neither patient satisfaction nor physician assessment of response to therapy differed between the two groups. There was no difference (P greater than 0.2) in the frequency of side effects, except for a trend toward a higher frequency of nausea (P = 0.13) in the aminophylline group. There was, however, a threefold decrease in the hospital admission rate for patients treated with aminophylline (6%) compared with placebo recipients (21%) (P = 0.016). CONCLUSION: Aminophylline, in doses producing levels just below the commonly accepted therapeutic range, appears to decrease hospital admissions in patients with acute exacerbation of asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. This finding, if confirmed in larger studies, may represent a substantial cost savings. 
Perilymphatic fistula: surgical experience in the United States. One survey sent to 6953 individual otolaryngologic practices and 106 departments of otolaryngology at teaching hospitals in the United States, and a more limited survey of 75 patients operated on for perilymphatic fistula (PLF) at the House Ear Institute, addressed aspects of managing PLF: surgical incidence, reliability of diagnostic test, preoperative observations, and disability after surgery. Of surgeons sampled, 93% estimated incidence of PLF surgery to be less than or equal to 1 per 1000 otolaryngologic outpatient visits. The most reliable diagnostic indicators were history, symptomatology, and tympanometric and electronystagmographic fistula tests. About 72% of surgeons reported less than 4 weeks' average delay before surgery. Most surgeons and patients (greater than or equal to 70%) rated length of disability before return to work, exposure to noise, travel by airplane, swimming, and heavy lifting, at several weeks to several months. Diving was the most restricted activity. Results suggest that incidence of surgery and disability with PFL in the United States is very limited. 
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy and Kearns-Sayre syndrome: mitochondrial DNA mutations. Mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) supplies extranuclear (cytoplasmic) genes which program the manufacture of 13 of the 67 peptides of the mitochondrial respiratory enzymes. The remaining 54 are coded by nuclear DNA. All human children and adults, male and female, are entirely dependent on the cytoplasm of the ovum for their complement of mt DNA; the sperm contributes none. Accordingly, mutations in the mt DNA in a mother's ova will be passed on to all her children, although not all are clinically affected. Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy is in most cases due to a mutation that leads to the replacement of guanine by adenine at position 11778 in mt DNA. This causes histidine to be inserted instead of the normal arginine at the site of the 340th amino acid in the respiratory enzyme NADH subunit 4, hence its defective function. Other point mutations in the mt DNA coding for polypeptides of the respiratory chain complex or controlling sequences coded by mt DNA have been found in other families with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. Mitochondrial DNA is the site of other mutations as well. For ophthalmologists, the most important of these is the rare Kearns-Sayre syndrome (pigmentary retinopathy plus muscular dystrophies, especially of the extraocular muscles). Kearns-Sayre syndrome is due to deletions in the mt DNA, which vary in size and so affect a number of different respiratory enzymes, hence the variable manifestations. Cases are usually sporadic because the disease is often so severe that affected individuals do not reproduce if they survive, but in some cases inheritance from the mother has been reported. 
Optic nerve hypoplasia, encephalopathy, and neurodevelopmental handicap. Abnormalities of the central nervous system are frequently described in optic nerve hypoplasia. In a longitudinal study of 46 consecutive children (32 term, 14 preterm) with bilateral optic nerve hypoplasia 32 (69.5%) had associated neurodevelopmental handicap. Of these, 90% had structural central nervous system abnormalities on computed tomographic brain scans. Neurodevelopmental handicap occurred in 62.5% of the term and 86% of the preterm infants respectively. Term infants had a greater incidence of ventral developmental midline defects and proportionately fewer maternal and/or neonatal complications throughout pregnancy, while encephaloclastic lesions were commoner among the premature infants. An association of optic nerve hypoplasia with the twin transfusion syndrome and prenatal vascular encephalopathies is described. 
The antishock pelvic clamp. Unstable posterior pelvic ring disruptions are frequently accompanied by severe venous bleeding and hypotension. Mechanical stabilization has been shown to help reduce such blood loss. A new external fixator called an antishock clamp provides direct reduction and compression of such fracture-diastases about the sacroiliac joint. It is used acutely to rapidly stabilize the posterior pelvic ring in hypotensive patients. The simplicity of design allows the device to be applied in less than ten minutes in the emergency room. Most importantly, it does not interfere with the ability to carry out subsequent laparotomy or other required procedures. Although more clinical experience is needed, the clamp has provided hemodynamic stabilization accompanying fracture reduction. The device is not expected to be of benefit in the cases with significant bleeding of arterial origin. 
Management of verrucous carcinoma of the larynx. Eight patients with a verrucous carcinoma of the larynx have been seen at the Charing Cross Hospital between 1970 and 1985. Seven patients were treated by primary radiotherapy and one by primary endoscopic laser excision. Four of those treated with radiotherapy developed recurrent disease which was treated by radical surgery in three and by endoscopic laser excision in one. The place of radiotherapy in the management of this condition requires further evaluation in view of the high rate of recurrence. Endoscopic laser excision may be a reasonable alternative to more radical surgery in this highly differentiated neoplasm. 
Motion artifact simulating aortic dissection on CT. We recently imaged two patients clinically suspected of having aortic dissection whose contrast-enhanced CT examinations, obtained on a new scanner with a 1-sec scanning time, showed findings suggesting an ascending aortic dissection. The subsequent clinical course and evaluation implied that the CT findings were predominantly artifactual. We identified identical artifacts in 18% of 50 consecutive contrast-enhanced CT examinations performed for a variety of indications on the same scanner. The double-lumen artifact, simulating an intimal flap, occurs in the proximal ascending aorta and is limited to one or two contiguous transaxial images. The artifact was not detected on two other CT units. We believe the artifact arises from motion of the aortic wall and the surrounding pericardial recesses during image acquisition. 
Management of ventricular septal defect with associated aortic incompetence. Twenty-two patients with a ventricular septal defect and aortic incompetence underwent surgical repair. Mean age was 9.6 years (range, 9 to 15 years). Mean follow-up was 32.4 +/- 15.8 months. The ventricular septal defect was perimembranous in 19 patients and doubly committed or juxtaarterial in 3. Most showed only a small left-to-right shunt. Mean diameter was 11.9 +/- 4.8 mm. Aortic incompetence was mild in 6 patients, moderate in 4, and severe in 12. In 16 patients closure of the ventricular septal defect and aortic valvoplasty were both performed through the aortic root. There were no deaths. All patients retained normal sinus rhythm. No complete heart block was found. In 3 patients secondary aortic valve replacement was required for severe incompetence; in 1 the cause was bacterial endocarditis, in another technical failure, and in a third progressive incompetence over an 8-month period. All patients showed substantial clinical improvement, marked decrease or disappearance of the valvar incompetence, diminution of the left ventricular end-diastolic diameter, and decreased cardiothoracic ratio. We conclude that primary repair is the operation of choice for this combination of lesions. This can avoid or delay considerably valvar replacement. The left-sided approach proves safe and is our preferred technique. 
Clinical and flow cytometry characteristics of malignant pleural effusions in patients after intracavitary administration of methylprednisolone acetate. Ten patients with recurrent pleural effusions due to advanced cancer were treated by intracavitary methylprednisolone acetate (Depo-Medrol [DM], Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI). They received one to six courses of DM (median, three courses per patient) with doses ranging from 80 to 160 mg per course. Effusion cells were cryopreserved before and during DM installation for subsequent determination of ploidy by flow cytometry. Pleural effusion in all three patients with advanced breast cancer resolved and did not reaccumulate throughout follow-up for 11+, 10+, and 8+ months. Pleural effusion in a patient with metastatic gastric cancer and in two of four patients with adenocarcinoma of unknown origin partially resolved. Altogether six of ten patients (60%) subjectively and objectively benefited from this therapy. All patients tolerated the treatment well with no local or systemic side effects. Flow cytometry showed a reduction in ploidy of effusion cells in all three patients with breast cancer, from a peak mean channel of 6C to nearly 2C after therapy. Transient reduction of ploidy was seen also in the effusion of a patient with unknown primary tumor associated with clinical improvement. The clinical and laboratory data reported offers initial evidence that DM when instilled into the pleural cavity after incomplete thoracentesis may act as effective palliative therapy either alone or in combination with other anticancer agents. 
Meningiomas of the lateral skull base: neurotologic manifestations and patterns of recurrence. The eradication of basicranial meningiomas by traditional surgical techniques is often hindered by neoplastic entanglement with critical neurovascular structures. Apparent, complete tumor resection is frequently followed by extensive, yet clinically silent, recurrent disease with local infiltration of bone, cranial nerves, and brain. Fifty-five cases of sphenoid wing or parasellar meningioma were analyzed to identify clinical manifestations suggestive of early tumor recurrence. Regrowth patterns were then defined according to preoperative radiographic and intraoperative surgical findings. Medial tumor regrowth, involving the cavernous sinus, caused neurapraxia of cranial nerves III, IV, or VI, with associated diplopia or ophthalmoplegia. Inferior (caudal) regrowth of disease involved the infratemporal fossa, pterygomaxillary space, or paranasal sinuses by bony erosion of the middle cranial fossa floor or through natural anatomic foramina and fissures. Such inferior extension was manifested clinically by facial hypesthesia, trismus, and referred otalgia caused by trigeminal nerve involvement and by autophony or serous otitis media related to eustachian tube obstruction. Posterior tumor regrowth occurred along the petrous bone and horizontal carotid canal, resulting in internal auditory meatus erosion and cerebellopontine angle extension with associated tinnitus, hearing loss, unsteadiness, and occasional facial twitching. While the clinical and radiographic evaluations of any patient with a suspected recurrent basicranial meningioma are critical in planning the method and magnitude of reoperation, an understanding of potential recurrence patterns can be used in devising more extensive, combined approaches that may allow complete tumor extirpation at the initial surgical intervention. 
Pharmacologic roles of heparin and glucocorticoids to prevent restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Restenosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is the major clinical problem limiting the long-term efficacy of this treatment for coronary atherosclerosis. Recent advances in the understanding of the biology of restenosis indicate that intimal hyperplasia of smooth muscle cells is the predominant cause for restenosis. Therefore, therapeutic agents that inhibit vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation should be candidate drugs to prevent restenosis. Heparin has documented antiproliferative effects on smooth muscle cells, and the availability of low molecular weight heparins that lack anticoagulant properties makes them ideal agents. Glucocorticoids have wide effects on inflammatory and wound healing events and inhibit smooth muscle cell growth in culture and in animal models of arterial injury. Recent laboratory data suggest that combination therapy with both low molecular weight heparin and hydrocortisone may be a powerful treatment regimen to limit restenosis. 
Carbon dioxide laser treatment for vulval papillomatosis (vulvodynia). Genital papillomatosis accompanied by distressing vulval symptoms is often termed vulvodynia. Common presenting symptoms are vulvar burning, pruritus and dyspareunia. Sixteen patients with vulval papillomatosis (vulvodynia) have been treated by carbon dioxide laser therapy over a 4-year period. Initial responses at 6 weeks appeared encouraging but with follow-up it became apparent that the relapse rate was high, with a mean symptom-free interval of 4.6 months. Of the 16 patients treated, only three remain symptom free. In view of our findings, we recommend that laser therapy should not be offered as a primary procedure, if at all, for patients with vulval papillomatosis. 
Purification of a plasma membrane-associated GTPase-activating protein specific for rap1/Krev-1 from HL60 cells. rap1/Krev-1 is a p21ras-related GTP-binding protein that has been implicated in the reversion of the ras-transformed cell phenotype. We have identified a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) specific for rap in plasma membranes isolated from differentiated HL60 cells. The rap GAP activity remained quantitatively associated with the membrane following washes with buffered 1 M LiCl containing 20 mM EDTA but was solubilized with the detergents Nonidet P-40 and deoxycholate. On the basis of size-exclusion chromatography, the membrane-associated rap GAP (rap GAPm) appeared distinct from the rap GAP detected in the cytosolic fraction from HL60 cells. The molecular sizes of the membrane and cytosolic forms were estimated to be 36 and 54 A, respectively. rap GAPm was solubilized and purified to near homogeneity by successive column chromatographies in the presence of detergent. The rap GAPm activity corresponded to a single polypeptide that migrated with a molecular mass of approximately 88 kDa on SDS/polyacrylamide gels. The purified rap GAPm was inactive toward the GTP-bound forms of p21ras, rho, G25K, and rac-1 and did not stimulate dissociation of guanine nucleotide from rap. 
High fecundity of amenorrhoeic women in embryo-transfer programmes. There is uncertainty over whether the steady decline in human fertility with increasing maternal age is due to quality of the oocyte or of the endometrium. To clarify the issue age-related implantation and pregnancy rates in two embryo-transfer programmes were examined in relation to embryo quality and type of menstrual cycle. In both the UK and the US programmes rates were higher in previously amenorrhoeic (acyclic) women than in eugonadal women, irrespective of age and number of embryos replaced. Oocyte quality, as determined by age of oocyte donor, in-vitro growth of embryo, and proportion of defective embryos in culture, did not contribute to the difference, nor did type of cycle during therapy. If a uterus that has not been subjected to regular menstrual cycles is a favourable factor, a period of induced amenorrhoea might be beneficial for infertile women. 
Steroid-responsive tubular aggregate myopathy. We report a man with an acute myalgia/cramp syndrome and tubular aggregates on his muscle biopsy. He was placed on prednisone and was found to be exquisitely sensitive to the drug, with changes of only 5 mg precipitating recurrence of symptoms. He was eventually tapered off all steroids, without symptoms, and repeat biopsy showed no tubular aggregates. We recommend similar patients be given a trial of high-dose steroids. 
Risk factors for stroke in middle aged British men. OBJECTIVE--To determine the risk factors for stroke in a cohort representative of middle aged British men. DESIGN--Prospective study of a cohort of men followed up for eight years. SETTING--General practices in 24 towns in England, Wales, and Scotland (the British regional heart study). SUBJECTS--7735 men aged 40-59 at screening, selected at random from one general practice in each town. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Fatal and non-fatal strokes. RESULTS--110 of the men had at least one stroke; there were four times as many non-fatal as fatal strokes. The relative risk of stroke was 12.1 in men who had high blood pressure (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg) and were current smokers compared with normotensive, non-smoking men. Diastolic blood pressure yielded no additional information, and former cigarette smokers had the same risk as men who had never smoked. Heavy alcohol intake was associated with a relative risk of stroke of 3.8 in men without previously diagnosed cardiovascular disease. Men with pre-existing ischaemic heart disease had an increased risk of stroke, but only when left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiography was also present. CONCLUSIONS--Systolic blood pressure, cigarette smoking, and left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiography in men with pre-existing ischaemic heart disease were found to be the major risk factors for stroke in middle aged British men. Heavy alcohol intake seemed to increase the risk of stroke in men without previously diagnosed cardiovascular disease. A large proportion of strokes should be preventable by controlling blood pressure and stopping smoking. 
Diagnosis and staging of hepatocellular carcinoma: comparison of CT and sonography in 36 liver transplantation patients. Radiologic studies are important in the detection of hepatocellular carcinoma and the selection of patients for partial liver resection, liver transplantation, or palliation. We retrospectively studied 36 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who were examined with both CT and sonography before undergoing hepatic transplantation. Pathologic findings of the entire resected liver were correlated with results of imaging studies before transplantation. Parenchymal lesions were shown by sonography in 29 cases (81%) and by CT in 34 cases (94%). Although CT was more sensitive than sonography was, both CT and sonography frequently failed to depict reliably the size of tumor or the exact number of tumor nodules as determined pathologically. Pathologic findings showed vascular invasion in 19 cases (53%), whereas CT showed invasion in 11 cases (31%) and sonography showed it in only six (17%). Nodal metastasis to the porta hepatis was found in four patients; CT correctly showed two cases (three false-positive) and sonography correctly showed one case. Intrahepatic ductal dilatation was seen in eight patients on CT but was not identified on sonography. We conclude that CT is more accurate for identifying and staging hepatocellular carcinoma, but both CT and sonography frequently fail to depict the extent (size and number of lesions) of disease, especially when underlying cirrhosis is present. 
Doppler sonographic imaging of the vascular system. Report of the Ultrasonography Task Force. Council on Scientific Affairs, American Medical Association. Ultrasonic vascular imaging has been used for more than 20 years to define vascular anatomy, pathologic changes in vessel size, and perivascular abnormalities. In the last decade, development of duplex Doppler technology has permitted the evaluation of both anatomic vascular features and physiologic blood flow parameters in a variety of locations. Doppler "color flow" imaging promises to expand these applications. In many instances, duplex Doppler technology has replaced more invasive angiographic procedures for evaluation of suspected vascular abnormalities. Improved ultrasound duplex technology, combined with the relatively inexpensive, rapid, noninvasive aspects of ultrasonography has made it a valuable screening examination for suspected flow abnormalities. 
Hemodynamic effects of varied graft diameters in the venous system. Both in vivo and mathematical models of venous hypertension were used to evaluate the hemodynamic effects of 4, 6, 8, and 10 mm diameter cross-femoral venous bypass grafts (CFBs). Eighteen grafts (length 138 +/- 3.4 mm) were tested in paired sequential fashion (four grafts, 4 and 8 mm; five grafts, 6 and 10 mm) in nine greyhounds (femoral vein diameter, 7.7 +/- 0.09 mm). Bilateral hindlimb venous pressures and flows were measured before and after unilateral iliofemoral venous ligation, 30 minutes after CFB insertion, and for 5 minutes after venous flow augmentation induced by stimulated muscle contraction. CFBs of all sizes were equally effective at relieving the occlusive venous hypertension at rest. Muscle contraction elevated venous pressure in all ligated hindlimbs (p less than 0.0001); however, the pressure returned to baseline by 3 minutes in dogs with 6, 8, and 10 mm grafts but remained elevated (p less than 0.05) with the 4 mm grafts even after 5 minutes. Peak graft flow (first 90 seconds after contraction) was significantly greater through the 8 mm grafts than through the 4 mm grafts (p less than 0.01), although no difference was noted in flow rates between 6 and 10 mm grafts. The pressure gradient across the graft as predicted by the mathematic model for 6 to 10 mm conduits was less than 5 mm Hg for flows up to 1000 ml/min, although the pressure gradient of the 4 mm graft exceeded 5 mm Hg at 200 ml/min and approached 30 mm Hg at 1000 ml/min. Therefore, data from both canine and mathematical models agreed that, at rates approximating human resting flow (1000 ml/min), no adverse short-term hemodynamic consequences result from CFB conduits of 6 to 10 mm diameter. 
New treatments for Chlamydia trachomatis. Standard regimens of tetracycline, doxycycline, or erythromycin, if compiled with, appear to be effective against Chlamydia trachomatis infections under most circumstances. However, the organism may sometimes persist despite what would seem to be adequate therapy. How often this occurs, to what extent noncompliance is the issue, and the role antibiotic resistance plays remain to be determined. Among newer antibiotics, azithromycin appears to be effective in the treatment of uncomplicated urogenital C. trachomatis infections. Single-dose therapy with azithromycin may be especially useful in overcoming compliance problems associated with the treatment of sexually transmitted disease. 
Actinomycosis in obstructive tonsillar hypertrophy and recurrent tonsillitis. A quantitative analysis of adenoid and tonsillar specimens from 460 patients was performed. The patients underwent tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy for either recurrent tonsillitis or obstructive tonsillar hypertrophy. Histologic preparations revealed Actinomycetes as statistically more prevalent in the obstructive population. The presence of Actinomycetes in the adenotonsillar core of this diagnostic group may indicate an etiologic role for this organism in tonsillar and adenoidal hypertrophy. 
Management of bleeding ulcers. Hemorrhage is a common complication of peptic ulcer disease and is increased in frequency and severity with aspirin and NSAID use. A variety of clinical and endoscopic factors associated with an increased mortality rate from ulcer bleeding have been identified, the most important of which are presentation in shock and ongoing or recurrent bleeding after routine resuscitative measures. After hemodynamic stabilization, the goal of therapy is to diminish the chance that an ulcer will continue to bleed or will rebleed. Currently, this is best achieved by one of several endoscopic interventions in carefully selected patients. The most effective endoscopic techniques for decreasing the risk of ulcer rebleeding are multipolar electrocoagulation, heater probe thermal coagulation, and injection therapy in patients with active bleeding or a visible vessel in the ulcer base. Injection therapy may be used alone or in combination with either of the other two techniques. The major impact of therapeutic endoscopy appears to be a reduction in the number of emergent operations necessary to control hemorrhage. The mortality of emergent surgery for bleeding ulcer is prohibitive, and any means of reducing the need for surgery is likely to have a beneficial effect on survival. 
Excision of limbal dermoids. We reviewed the clinical files of 10 patients who had undergone excision of unilateral epibulbar limbal dermoids. Preoperatively, all of the affected eyes had worse visual acuity (P less than .02) and more astigmatism (P less than .01) than the contralateral eyes. Postoperatively, every patient was cosmetically improved. Of the eight patients for whom both preoperative and postoperative visual acuity measurements had been obtained, in six it had changed minimally (less than or equal to 1 line), and in two it had improved (less than or equal to 2 lines). Surgical complications included persistent epithelial defects (40%) and peripheral corneal vascularization and opacity (70%). These complications do not outweigh the cosmetic and visual benefits of dermoid excision in selected patients. 
Intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm presenting as recurrent epistaxis. Massive epistaxis from a leaking intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm is a rare occurrence. Such an unusual case is presented with appropriate imaging and a successful treatment program. 
Variable regression of experimental bronchial preneoplasia during carcinogenesis. It has been thought that squamous severe atypical metaplasia of the bronchus is reliably precancerous. The canine subcutaneous bronchial autograft model for studying the progression of epidermoid carcinogenesis (normal----regular squamous metaplasia----mild, moderate, and severe atypical metaplasia----squamous cell carcinoma) provides evidence that severe atypical metaplasia of the bronchial epithelium is reversible. Among 148 subcutaneous bronchial autografts that had serial sampling of the epithelium and exposure to implants of methylcholanthrene, severe atypical metaplasia was noted in 28 that received only a single implant. During the total carcinogen exposure (median 24.5 months), 9 of 28 (32%) developed squamous cell cancer, and 19 of 28 (68%) regressed toward normal. Severe atypical metaplasia was noted in 34 subcutaneous bronchial autografts that received two or more carcinogen implants: epidermoid cancer developed in 26 of 34 (76.5%), and regression toward or to normal occurred in 8 of 34 (23.5%). Severe atypical metaplasia was not detected in 53 subcutaneous bronchial autografts: 19 that received only a single implant and 34 that received two or more implants. Progression and regression occurred among these subcutaneous bronchial autografts in proportions similar to those found in subcutaneous bronchial autografts wherein severe atypical metaplasia was seen. Among 33 subcutaneous bronchial autografts initially studied after 6 months of exposure to carcinogen, progression to severe atypical metaplasia was seen 3 months later in 19 of 33 that had additional exposure; in the same interval regression of epithelial abnormalities occurred in 14 of 33 subcutaneous bronchial autografts that had no additional exposure (p less than 0.05). We have presented evidence that severe atypical metaplasia includes at least three cell populations: one committed to cancer without further stimulus, one that regresses despite further carcinogen exposure, and one that requires additional carcinogen to progress to cancer. At least in this model, severe atypical metaplasia is not inexorably precancerous. The subcutaneous bronchial autograft model is suitable for seeking biologic indicators of irreversibility. 
Failure of motor evoked potentials to predict neurologic outcome in experimental thoracic aortic occlusion. Motor evoked potential monitoring was tested as an alternative to somatosensory evoked potential monitoring in evaluating spinal cord function during thoracic aortic occlusion in dogs. Twenty-seven animals underwent 60 minutes of cross-clamping of the proximal descending thoracic aorta with (n = 18) or without (n = 9) cerebrospinal fluid drainage. Spinal cord blood flow was measured with microspheres, and neurologic outcome was evaluated at 24 hours with Tarlov's scoring system. Cerebrospinal fluid drainage improved neurologic outcome (p less than 0.05). Motor evoked potentials recorded over the lumbar spinal cord were lost in 9 of 20 dogs with ischemic cord injury and were not lost in any of the 7 dogs that were neurologically normal. Somatosensory evoked potential were lost in 19 of 20 paraplegic/paraparetic dogs and lost in 3 of 7 normal dogs (p less than 0.01). After reperfusion, motor evoked potentials returned in all nine neurologically injured dogs that lost the potentials and were still present at 24 hours. Changes in amplitude, latency, or time until loss or return of motor evoked potentials or somatosensory evoked potentials did not predict neurologic injury. Loss of somatosensory evoked potentials had a high sensitivity (95%) but had low specificity (67%) because of peripheral nerve ischemia. Loss of motor evoked potentials recorded from the spinal cord had high specificity (100%) but a low sensitivity (46%) and was therefore not a reliable predictor of neurologic injury. Return of motor evoked potentials during reperfusion did not correlate with functional recovery. Motor evoked potentials stimulated in the cortex and recorded from the spinal cord had low overall accuracy (59%). 
Transoral approach to the upper cervical spine. The transoral approach to pathology of the upper cervical spine is logical, but it is seldom used due to concerns about exposure and infection. The authors report on 16 consecutive patients requiring exposure from clivus through C3 for pathology, including spinal cord compression by rheumatoid pannus, craniovertebral anomalies, and tumor. Exposure was obtained using a Dingman mouth gag and soft palate retraction with silicone rubber sheeting. A horizontal "H" incision was made in the posterior pharyngeal wall creating three layers, closed separately, with attention to a watertight closure of the final mucosal layer. In no case was it necessary to divide the mandible, tongue, soft palate, or uvula. There were no deaths, wound breakdowns, infections, or persistent cerebrospinal fluid leakage. Patients with neurological indications improved postoperatively, and all tumors were grossly resected. Combined otolaryngology/neurosurgical exposure and treatment of pathology involving the upper cervical spine via the transoral approach is safe and effective. Functional results have been excellent, and no major complications were encountered. 
Symptomatic diverticulum of the 4th ventricle. A case of symptomatic diverticulum of the 4th ventricle in a 57-year-old man is presented. This clinicopathological observation supports a relationship between ventricular diverticula and ependyma-lined paraventricular cysts. 
Segregation analysis reveals evidence of a major gene for Alzheimer disease. In an attempt to resolve the relative influences of major genes, multifactorial heritability, and cohort effects on the susceptibility to Alzheimer disease (AD), complex segregation analysis was performed on 232 nuclear families. All families were consecutively ascertained through a single proband who was referred for diagnostic evaluation of a memory disorder. The results suggest that susceptibility to AD is determined, in part, by a major autosomal dominant allele with an additional multifactorial component. Single-locus, polygenic, sporadic, and no-transmission models, as well as recessive inheritance of the major effect, were significantly rejected. Excess transmission from the heterozygote was marginally significant and probably reflects the presence of phenocopies or perhaps the existence of two or more major loci for AD. The frequency of the AD susceptibility allele was estimated to be .038, but the major locus accounts for only 24% of the transmission variance, indicating a substantial role for other genetic and nongenetic mechanisms in the causation of AD. 
Cirrhosis of the liver. A regenerative process. The ancient story of Prometheus, chained to a rock for defying Zeus by stealing fire from Mount Olympus and subjected to daily tearing at his liver by an eagle, attests to the early recognition of the extraordinary regenerative capacity of the human liver. This process had remained an intriguing mystery over the millennia. In the last 20 years, following the pioneering work of Bucher (1) and Moolten et al (2), there has been an explosion of research that has clarified some of the mechanisms underlying the process of hepatic regeneration. Regeneration implies proliferation and regeneration. After the fetal and postnatal growth of the liver is completed, hepatocytes no longer proliferate actively, but they can proliferate in response to cell death or loss (3). Hepatocyte growth responses are of particular research interest because they occur in vivo and involve cells that are normally quiescent. Hepatic regeneration constitutes a highly regulated process that is best shown by the arrest of liver growth following a partial hepatectomy precisely at the moment the hepatic mass reaches the mass of the original intact liver (3). This suggests that hepatic regeneration after a partial hepatectomy is a strictly regulated nonautonomous growth process that is controlled by the same factors that are responsible for the determination and maintenance of hepatic mass in a normal individual. In response to a partial hepatectomy, hepatocytes enter the cell cycle and progress to DNA synthesis and replication but only in numbers sufficient to restore the hepatic mass. The regeneration response is both synchronized and universal in that it affects all intrahepatic cell lines, including nonparenchymal cells. 
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin and interleukin-2 for treatment of superficial bladder cancer. A total of 22 patients with bladder cancer received bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) and interleukin-2. Significant bladder tumor remissions were noted in 15 of 17 patients (88%). Of 5 patients with carcinoma in situ 1 was noncompliant and he died of carcinoma in situ. The other 4 patients are in remission. BCG alone was instilled in 22 additional patients with superficial bladder cancer. The remission rates were encouraging. Of the 22 patients 13 (59%) had remission of the bladder tumor. A half dose of BCG (60 mg.) is adequate when given weekly for 6 weeks. Maintenance therapy is important as noted in both of our clinical arms. BCG and interleukin-2 therapy results in a higher remission rate. 
Coronary venous retroperfusion support during high risk angioplasty in patients with unstable angina: preliminary experience. Synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion was used during coronary balloon angioplasty to support the ischemic myocardium of 20 patients with unstable angina and anatomy at high risk of a coronary event. Hemodynamics and left ventricular function were the major end points of the study. Coronary venous catheterization and retroperfusion were successfully performed in 15 patients. The target vessel was an unprotected left main artery in 2, left anterior descending artery in 10, left circumflex coronary artery in 1 and right coronary artery in 2 patients. A nonsupported balloon inflation (mean 44 +/- 13 s) was compared with a later retroperfusion-supported inflation (mean 145 +/- 21 s). Right anterior oblique left ventriculograms, aortic blood pressure, pulmonary artery pressure and thermodilution cardiac output were obtained before and during peak untreated and treated balloon inflations and on completion of angioplasty. All patients had either a baseline left ventricular ejection fraction less than 0.40 or greater than 40% of contracting myocardium estimated to be at risk for severe ischemia during angioplasty. The cardiac (liters/min per m2) and stroke work (g.m/m2) indexes decreased from mean baseline values of 2.5 +/- 0.52 and 52 +/- 15 to 1.7 +/- 0.47 and 27 +/- 12 (mean +/- SD), respectively, during nonsupported balloon inflations but decreased only to 2.1 +/- 0.52 (p less than 0.01 vs. nonsupported) and to 36 +/- 14 (p = 0.01 vs. nonsupported), respectively, during retroperfusion-supported inflations. Ejection fraction (n = 8) decreased from a baseline value of 55 +/- 13% to 27 +/- 7.3% during nonsupported inflations but only to 39 +/- 10% during retroperfusion-supported inflations (p = 0.01 vs. nonsupported). Regional wall motion (area change) in the ischemic (target) region was reduced from a baseline value of 49 +/- 17% to 11 +/- 16% during nonsupported inflations but only to 27 +/- 15% during retroperfusion-supported inflations (p less than 0.01 vs. nonsupported). All but two patients had a favorable hemodynamic response to retroperfusion. There were no serious adverse effects related to the procedures and no hospital deaths. It is concluded from this preliminary study that coronary venous retroperfusion appears to be safe, to provide hemodynamic support and to improve left ventricular function during angioplasty in patients with unstable angina and anatomy at high risk of a coronary event. 
Improved survival after resection of pulmonary metastases from malignant melanoma The value of resecting pulmonary metastases from malignant melanoma was retrospectively examined. Between 1981 and 1989, 56 patients (35 men and 21 women with a mean age of 49 years) had 65 pulmonary resections for histologically proven metastatic melanoma after treatment of the primary tumor. In patients undergoing thoracotomy, 50% (28/56) had pulmonary metastases as the initial site of recurrence. Twenty-eight patients (50%) had local-regional recurrence before the development of lung metastases. Eight lobectomies, two segmentectomies, and 55 wedge excisions were done. Fifty-four patients (54/56, 96%) underwent complete resection, and there were no operative deaths. The postthoracotomy actuarial survival was 25% at 5 years (median interval, 18 months). Location of the primary tumor, histology, thickness, Clark level, local-regional lymph node metastases, or type of resection was not associated with improved survival. Patients without regional nodal metastases before thoracotomy had a median survival of 30 months compared with 16 months for all others (p = 0.04). Patients with lung as the site of first recurrence had a median survival of 30 months compared with 17 months for patients with initial local-regional recurrence (p = 0.038, log-rank test). Despite systemic spread, patients with isolated pulmonary metastases from melanoma may benefit from metastasectomy. 
Human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma viruses. Life cycle, pathogenicity, epidemiology, and diagnosis. Human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I (HTLV-I) was discovered in 1980, and it subsequently was found to be the cause of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. A progressive neurologic disease known as tropical spastic paraparesis, or HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, has also been linked to infection with HTLV-I. A related virus, HTLV type II (HTLV-II), has been isolated from patients with hairy-cell leukemia, but it has not been proved to be the cause of any disease. In late 1988, US blood banks began screening all blood donations for antibodies to HTLV-I/II. This program has resulted in the identification of many unexpectedly seropositive blood donors and provided much information about the prevalence of HTLV-I/II in the United States. In this article, I review the replication of these agents, as well as their pathogenesis, diagnosis, and mechanisms of spread. 
Nutritional aspects and swallowing function of patients with Parkinson's disease. Seven patients with Parkinson's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent adrenal medullary transplant to the caudate nucleus for treatment of their neurologic disease. Preoperative nutritional assessment demonstrated that a significant number of the Parkinson's patients had mild to moderate nutritional depletion. Motility problems, manifest by dysphagia and delayed gastric emptying causing problems over a number of years, were probably responsible. Of the 10 patients studied, 6 were studied by videofluoroscopy. All patients had variable dysphagia of variable servility with or without aspiration. Etiologic factors included the basic underlying neurologic disease, delay in resumption of anti-parkinsonian medications, use of metoclopramide, and postoperative medical complications leading to a debilitated clinical state. 
The effects of sucralfate and luminal stasis on recovery of the chambered rat gastric mucosa from taurocholate-induced damage. We have previously shown, using a gastric chamber model, that both sucralfate and luminal stasis protected the rat gastric mucosa against the development of hemorrhagic erosions produced by subsequent exposure for 10 minutes to acidified (50 mM HCl) 80 mM sodium taurocholate (NaT). The protection afforded by sucralfate was abolished by inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity but restored by sucralfate. In this study we demonstrate that indomethacin pretreatment decreases both the depth (in microns) and magnitude (in pH units) of the juxtamucosal pH gradient, but that sucralfate restores these parameters to levels characteristic of normal mucosae. The cytoprotective effect of sucralfate is thus prostaglandin-independent and, at least in part, a consequence of sucralfate-induced increases in the thickness of the juxtamucosal pH gradient/unstirred layer. We have also examined the ability of sucralfate to prevent the otherwise inevitable development of hemorrhagic erosions when it was applied after the gastric mucosa was exposed to NaT. When 100 mg sucralfate in 50 mM HCl was applied for 10 minutes, without stirring, subsequent to a 10-minute exposure of the mucosa to NaT, the average lesion area was reduced from about 15% to less than 3%. Unlike its cytoprotective property, the ability of sucralfate to accelerate the recovery process after damage was abolished by indomethacin pretreatment. Studies using antimony microelectrodes revealed that indomethacin pretreatment resulted in reductions in both the depth and magnitude of the pH gradient that resulted from plasma efflux from the mucosa after exposure to the acidified bile salt. These studies demonstrate that sucralfate is capable not only of prevention or attenuation of acute damage when administered prior to damaging agents, but is also capable of arresting the sequence of events that produces hemorrhage in the previously inflamed or damaged stomach. 
Assessment of energy expenditure by indirect calorimetry in healthy subjects and patients with liver cirrhosis. The reliability of resting energy expenditure (REE) measurements by indirect calorimetry with a ventilated hood was investigated in 50 healthy controls and 10 patients with liver cirrhosis. In each subject basal energy expenditure (BEE) was determined once and REE three times (morning REE1, noon REE2, afternoon REE3). In controls and patients the first 5-minute BEE and first 5-minute REE (controls also second 5-minute REE) were higher than in the remainder of the 30-minute recording. Only the last 20 minutes of recordings were used to calculate BEE (1645 +/- 315, mean +/- SD, in kilocalories per day), REE1 (1880 +/- 365), REE2 (1782 +/- 384), and REE3 (1775 +/- 316) in controls, and in cirrhotics: BEE (1530 +/- 235), REE1 (1714 +/- 267), REE2 (1715 +/- 238), and REE3 (1779 +/- 275). REE was higher than BEE in controls and cirrhotics (p less than 0.05). The REE variation coefficient was 5 +/- 3% in controls and 5 +/- 2% in cirrhotics. No systematic difference between REE1, REE2, and REE3 was found. Energy expenditure predicted by the Harris-Benedict equation differed up to 21% from measured BEE in individual controls; group mean BEE, however, was correctly predicted. In cirrhotics differences between measured and predicted BEE up to 26% occurred, while measured BEE was higher than predicted BEE (p = 0.06). It is concluded that REE can be reliably assessed by indirect calorimetry with a ventilated hood system in controls and patients at any time of the day, when values obtained in the first 10 minutes are deleted. 
Left ventricular midwall mechanics in systemic arterial hypertension. Myocardial function is depressed in pressure-overload hypertrophy. BACKGROUND. Left ventricular (LV) midwall geometry has been described conventionally as the sum of the chamber radius and half of the wall thickness; this convention is based on the assumption of uniform transmural thickening during systole. However, theoretical considerations and experimental data indicate that the inner half (inner shell) of the LV wall thickens more than the outer half (outer shell). Thus, an end-diastolic circumferential midwall fiber exhibits a relative migration toward the epicardium during systole. As a result, the conventional method provides an overestimate of the extent of the midwall fiber shortening. METHODS AND RESULTS. We developed an ellipsoidal model with a concentric two-shell geometry (nonuniform thickening) to assess midwall fiber length transients throughout the cardiac cycle. This modified midwall method was used in the analysis of LV cineangiograms from 15 patients with systemic arterial hypertension and 14 normal subjects. Study groups were classified according to LV mass index (LVMI): 14 normal subjects (group I), eight hypertensive patients with a normal LVMI (group II), and seven hypertensive patients with an increased LVMI (group III). There were no significant differences in LV end-diastolic pressure or volume among the three groups; the ejection fraction was slightly greater in group II (70 +/- 5%) than in groups I (65 +/- 8%) and III (66 +/- 4%), but this trend did not achieve statistical significance. Values for endocardial and conventional midwall fractional shortening (FS) were also similar in the three groups. By contrast, FS by the concentric two-shell geometry (modified midwall method) in group III (16 +/- 2%) was significantly less than that seen in groups I and II (21 +/- 4% and 21 +/- 5%, respectively; both p less than 0.05). This difference achieves greater importance when it is recognized that mean systolic circumferential stress was lower in group III (151 +/- 22 g/cm2) than in groups I and II (244 +/- 37 g/cm2 and 213 +/- 38 g/cm2, respectively; both p less than 0.01). The midwall stress-shortening coordinates in six of the seven group III patients were outside the 95% confidence limits for the normal (group I) subjects. Thus, despite a normal ejection fraction, systolic function is subnormal in hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy. CONCLUSIONS. Chamber dynamics provide an overestimate of myocardial function, especially when LV wall thickness is increased. This is due to a relatively greater contribution of inner shell thickening in pressure-overload hypertrophy. 
Impaired potassium-induced dilation in hypertensive rat cerebral arteries does not reflect altered Na+,K(+)-ATPase dilation. We have recently demonstrated that K(+)-induced dilation of cerebral resistance-sized vessels has two independent components, only one of which seemed sodium pump dependent. In our current investigation, potassium-induced dilation of spontaneous tone was compared in cerebral arteries from normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats and age-matched stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. Branches of the posterior cerebral artery were cannulated and pressurized, and these vessels developed spontaneous tone. After a 5-minute period in K(+)-free physiological saline solution, K+ was increased in 1-mM increments to a final concentration of 15 mM. In the normotensive arteries, K+ concentrations between 0 and 5 mM K+ resulted in dilations that had a transient (sodium pump-dependent) component, and K+ concentrations in excess of 7 mM produced dilations that lacked a transient (sodium pump-independent) component. Similar branches from the hypertensive rat also responded with transient dilations to K+ (less than 5 mM), and these were significantly greater at 3 mM K+. However, the maintained dilations to K+ (greater than 7 mM), noted in preparations from Wistar-Kyoto rats, were absent in seven of eight preparations. Thus, the impaired dilations, in the hypertensive vessels, to K+ described here is a consequence of altered function of some sodium pump-independent component rather than altered Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. 
Endocarditis due to Trichosporon beigelii: in vitro susceptibility of isolates and review. Infection with Trichosporon beigelii is an uncommon cause of endocarditis. Of the eight cases of T. beigelii endocarditis that have been reported (one herein and seven previously), six involved prosthetic heart valves and two involved native heart valves. The clinical manifestations of this infection included embolization of the superficial femoral artery or of the bifurcation of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries in three of these patients (two with prosthetic valve and one with native valve endocarditis). In seven of the eight reported cases, blood cultures were positive for the organism. Although clinical isolates of the organism are generally reported to be susceptible to amphotericin B, isolates can vary in their sensitivities to antifungal agents in vitro depending on the methodology used, and clinical response to therapy with antifungal agents in a regimen that includes amphotericin B is generally poor. Only two of six patients who were treated with antifungal agents survived endocarditis caused by T. beigelii and were apparently cured; one of these patients was also managed surgically with valve replacement. Infection with T. beigelii should be considered in the differential diagnosis of endocarditis in immunocompetent patients, particularly those who have a prosthetic heart valve. Rapid, aggressive therapy may be necessary to eradicate this organism. 
Triangulation of pedicular instrumentation. A biomechanical analysis. Tensile load-to-failure pullout tests were performed on 54 cadaveric spinal segments. The vertebrae were grouped by adjacent levels and matched for bone mineral density (g/cm2), which was measured by dual-photon absorptiometry. Triangulation of Steffee screws and CD pedicle screws was accomplished by transverse plates specifically designed to increase fixation within the same vertebra before the longitudinal Steffee plate or CD rod was applied. A transverse plate with adjustable length was also tested to accommodate variable interpedicular distances. Comparative pullout load-to-failures were as follows: laminar hook, 809 SE 99.4 N; single CD pedicular screws, 863 SE 108 N; single Steffee pedicular screw, 1245 SE 75.3 N; adjustable transverse plate, 1341 SE 114; triangulated Steffee pedicle screws with a transverse plate, 1701 SE 151 N; and triangulated CD pedicle screws with a transverse plate, 2096 SE 115 N. Three triangulated constructs with pedicle screws and a transverse plate (CD, Steffee, and Kirschner) provided significantly greater fixation than conventional pedicular or laminar hook based instrumentation systems (P less than 0.05). Improved treatment of spinal deformities in the elderly and osteoporotic population is dependent on improving the fixation at the metal-bone interface of spinal implants Particularly in osteoporotic vertebrae, the strength of fixation of two triangulated pedicle screws is better than either laminar hooks or single pedicle screws. The strength of fixation of triangulated pedicle screws connected by a transverse plate is superior to a single pedicle screw because it is dependent on the mass of bone between the screws rather than simply the amount of bone within the screw thread. 
Late follow-up after repair of left ventricular aneurysm and (usually) associated coronary bypass grafting. This study assesses clinical and operative data (LV) aneurysm was repaired to determine factors that might predict in-hospital and long-term outcome. Long-term follow-up study was obtained in 296 of 298 patients undergoing LV aneurysm repair with or without coronary artery bypass grafting between 1974 and 1986. No patient had sustained a myocardial infarction within 2 weeks of surgery or was undergoing other concurrent cardiac surgery. The average age of the study patients was 57 +/- 9 years and the average ejection fraction was 35 +/- 13%. Ninety percent of the patients underwent concurrent bypass grafting, with an average of 2.2 +/- 1.3 grafts placed. Fourteen (5%) patients died in the hospital, with most deaths attributable to LV dysfunction. Advanced age and less extensive revascularization were correlates of in-hospital mortality. The 10-year survival was 57%, myocardial infarction-free survival 43%, and freedom from death, myocardial infarction and reoperative coronary surgery 41%. Advanced age, systemic hypertension, significant left main coronary artery narrowing and emergent operative status were multivariate correlates of long-term mortality. A low-risk population was defined by the absence of these risk factors, and high-risk by the presence of greater than or equal to 1 risk factors. The 10-year survival was 71% in the low-risk and 41% in the high-risk groups (p = .0006). The 10-year myocardial infarction free survival was 55% in the low-risk and 31% in the high-risk groups (p = 0.0017). LV aneurysm repair may be performed with acceptable in-hospital mortality, and the long-term risk may be stratified. 
Pericardiac extravasation during intravenous digital subtraction angiography: a case report. The authors reported a case, pericardiac extravasation of contract medium during an intravenous angiographic (IV DSA) procedure. To their knowledge this is the first such case in the literature. They suggest modifications of the IV DSA method to avoid this complication. 
Remission of hepatitis B-associated membranous glomerulonephritis in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection has been associated with several renal diseases, the most common being membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN). The role of concurrent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in affecting the course of the renal involvement is largely unknown. We report the case of a HIV-infected adult male with chronic HBV-associated MGN who had complete remission of the nephrotic syndrome associated with spontaneous seroconversion from hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive to HBeAg-negative. The present case illustrates that HIV infection does not preclude improvement of chronic HBV infection or an associated membranous nephropathy. Such improvement may be dependent on the ability of the host immune system to clear HBeAg. 
Spatial control of gut-specific gene expression during Caenorhabditis elegans development. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was transformed with constructs containing upstream deletions of the gut-specific ges-1 carboxylesterase gene. With particular deletions, ges-1 was expressed, not as normally in the gut, but rather in muscle cells of the pharynx (which belong to a sister lineage of the gut) or in body wall muscle and hypodermal cells (which belong to a cousin lineage of the gut). These observations suggest that gut-specific gene expression in C. elegans involves not only gut-specific activators but also multiple repressors that are present in particular nongut lineages. 
Complex ventricular ectopic activity in patients less than 20 years of age with or without syncope, and the role of ventricular extrastimulus testing. To assess the potential for ventricular tachycardia (VT), ventricular extrastimulus testing was performed in 33 young patients with complex ventricular ectopic activity defined as multiform ventricular premature complexes (VPCs), couplets or nonsustained VT, or a combination, found during electrocardiographic monitoring. There were 21 male and 12 female patients with a mean age of 11 years (range 1 to 18). Patients were divided into 2 groups based on the presence (14 patients) or absence (19 patients) of syncope. Patients with syncope had ostensibly normal hearts (9 patients) or miscellaneous heart disease (5 patients). Patients without syncope had ostensibly normal hearts (8 patients) or miscellaneous heart disease (11 patients). Ventricular stimulation protocol consisted of burst pacing and 1 to 4 programmed extrastimuli decreasing to refractoriness at 3 drive-train cycle lengths, and at 2 pacing sites (right ventricular apex and outflow tract) during the drug-free baseline state and isoproterenol infusion. No patient had VT induced with 1 or 2 extrastimuli. VT was induced in 13 of 14 patients (93%) with syncope, and in 9 of 19 patients (47%) without syncope (p less than 0.05). Using a 3-extrastimuli protocol, 8 of 14 patients (57%) with and 3 of 19 patients (16%) without syncope had VT induced (p less than 0.05). These findings suggest that VT may be the cause of syncope in young patients with complex ventricular ectopic activity. 
Hexamethylmelamine chemotherapy for persistent or recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. The purpose of this study was to determine the activity and toxicity of hexamethylmelamine chemotherapy in patients with persistent or recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. Forty-nine women received hexamethylmelamine 100 to 150 mg/day for 14 days, repeated at 4-week intervals. All patients had previously received at least one chemotherapy regimen, and 46 (94%) had received cisplatin. Among 25 patients with clinically measurable disease there were three complete and two partial responses, for an objective response rate of 20%. The mean progression-free interval for responders was 38.6 months versus 9.6 months for nonresponders or patients with nonmeasurable disease (p less than 0.001). Thirteen patients are alive, eight with no clinical evidence for disease. Only four patients discontinued therapy because of toxic reactions. Hexamethylmelamine appears to be a well-tolerated drug with activity against ovarian cancer previously treated with cisplatin. 
Psychiatric disorders in patients with esophageal disease. Psychiatric disorders have potentially important roles in the manifestations of esophageal disease. A primary causative role for psychiatric factors in the common motility disorders associated with chest pain (esophageal spasm and the nonspecific motor disorders) remains unproven, but psychiatric disorders appear particularly prevalent in this group. In most other esophageal diseases, psychiatric factors interact through recognized psychophysiologic or behavioral mechanisms to affect the clinical presentation. Recognizing the possible levels of interaction has significant therapeutic implications. 
Hearing aid prescribing: is the specialist opinion necessary? A restructuring of the service for provision of hearing aids has been proposed by the Royal National Institute for the Deaf. This is based on the assumption that very few patients referred for hearing aids have significant ear disease and it is not necessary for them to see an ENT specialist. The case notes of 200 consecutive patients referred to the Hearing Aid clinic were reviewed. In only half of these would a hearing aid have been prescribed without a specialist opinion. The remainder either did not need a hearing aid or required further investigation and surgical or medical treatment. In addition there was significant evidence of lack of expertise amongst General Practitioners in recognizing ear disorders. It is imperative that any patient requiring a hearing aid be seen by someone experienced in otology rather than be dealt with by the General Practitioner alone. 
Early thrombolytic treatment reduces analgesic requirement in patients with myocardial infarction. The duration and amount of analgesics required were investigated in 67 patients with myocardial infarction treated with intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rtPA) or placebo in a randomized double-blind trial. Infusion of rtPA (100 mg)/placebo was started within 5 h after the onset of symptoms, and the requirement for analgesics during the following 48 h was recorded. Sixty-seven per cent of the 30 rtPA-treated patients required analgesic treatment for less than 6 h, compared to 38% of the 37 patients in the placebo group (P = 0.04). During the study period, patients in the rtPA group used the equivalent of 5.3 mg (median value) intravenous morphine, which was significantly less than the 11.2 mg used in the placebo group (P = 0.04). In conclusion, the present study suggests that early thrombolysis with intravenous rtPA reduces the amount and duration of analgesic treatment required by patients with myocardial infarction. 
Immediate and late inflammatory responses to ragweed antigen challenge of the peripheral airways in allergic asthmatics. Cellular, mediator, and permeability changes. Asthma may represent the clinical manifestations of a unique form of chronic airway inflammation and is often associated with allergy. To better define the components of allergic inflammation in the lung, fluids obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) were examined for cells, inflammatory mediators, and markers of airway permeability 5 min and 19 h following instillation of ragweed antigen directly into an airway segment of allergic asthmatic subjects. The 5-min response to antigen challenge (n = 10) was characterized by 17- to 208-fold increases in histamine, prostaglandin D2 (PGD2), and its metabolite, 9 alpha,11 beta-PGF2, thromboxane B2, and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha compared with a saline-challenged segment (0.004 less than p less than 0.017). The increases in most of these mediators were significantly correlated with each other (0.0001 less than p less than or equal to 0.01), and the magnitude of all significant mediator increases was directly correlated with skin test sensitivity to ragweed antigen (0.007 less than or equal to p less than or equal to 0.05). There was also a slight increase in kinins (p = 0.04). Changes in cells and airway permeability were not detected. In contrast, the 19-h response to antigen challenge (n = 9) was characterized by a 13-fold increase in total cells recovered by BAL. Eosinophils, basophils, and lymphocytes were significantly increased and comprised 38, 1, and 9% of total cells, respectively. A neutrophil influx was also observed but was not specific for antigen challenge since a similar change was observed in a sham, saline-challenged site. 
Antiischemic and metabolic effects of glutamate during pacing in patients with stable angina pectoris secondary to either coronary artery disease or syndrome X. The effects of glutamate on anginal threshold, cardiac metabolism and hemodynamics were studied in 11 patients with stable angina pectoris, positive stress test results, and pacing-induced myocardial lactate release due to coronary artery disease (CAD) (n = 9) or syndrome X (n = 2). Data were obtained before, during and after 2 identical periods of coronary sinus pacing, the second being preceded by an intravenous injection of monosodium glutamate 1.2 (n = 7) or 2.5 (n = 4) mg/kg body weight. After glutamate administration, pacing time to onset of angina increased from mean +/- standard deviation 103 +/- 53 to 166 +/- 71 seconds (p less than 0.01) and ST-segment depression after pacing decreased from 2.3 +/- 1.0 to 1.6 +/- 1.1 mm (p less than 0.01). Arterial glutamate concentration increased 60% (p less than 0.01) after the low dose and 150% (p less than 0.01) after the high dose of glutamate. Regardless of dose, myocardial glutamate uptake increased by 25% (p less than 0.01). Pacing-induced cardiac release of lactate diminished 50% (p less than 0.05), whereas the releases of xanthine and hypoxanthine were unchanged by glutamate. Arterial free fatty acids decreased 20% (p less than 0.01). Circulating levels and cardiac exchanges of alanine, glucose and citrate were unchanged. Glutamate did not influence heart rate, arterial blood pressure, coronary blood flow, coronary vascular resistance or myocardial oxygen consumption. One patient complained of short-lasting burning sensations after receiving the high glutamate dose. In conclusion, augmented provision of glutamate enhances pacing tolerance in stable angina, presumably by a metabolic improvement of cardiac energy production during ischemia. 
Oxygen utilization, carbon dioxide elimination and ventilation during recovery from supine bicycle exercise 6 to 8 weeks after acute myocardial infarction. The pattern of oxygen (O2) consumption (VO2), carbon dioxide (CO2) production (VCO2), ventilatory and metabolic responses during and in recovery from supine bicycle exercise was examined in 18 patients with recent myocardial infarction. An increase in VO2 with increasing work load was accomplished by proportional increases in both cardiac output and the arteriovenous O2 difference. During recovery, however, the arteriovenous O2 difference rapidly decreased below levels at rest, whereas VO2 and cardiac output remained elevated, indicating that VO2 during recovery further depended on relatively high cardiac output. The ratio of VCO2 to VO2 further increased after exercise, suggesting that such cardiac output contributed to the remaining high CO2 flow to the lung and therefore enhanced ventilation. Increased arterial catecholamines during exercise remained elevated for the first 5 minutes of recovery. Arterial lactate during this period continued to increase and resulted in profound metabolic acidosis, causing alveolar hyperventilation after exercise. These results suggest that during recovery from exercise, cardiopulmonary responses remain enhanced because of continuing high cardiac output, resulting in subsequent high CO2 flow to the lung and metabolic acidosis, and that this may be associated with profound fatigue or dyspnea after exercise. 
Lipoprotein (a) blood levels in unstable angina pectoris, acute myocardial infarction, and after thrombolytic therapy. Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] appears to be involved in atherogenesis and in vitro studies have suggested that it may interfere with thrombolysis. In this study, Lp(a) serum levels were determined by radioimmunoassay in 124 patients with ischemic heart disease. Of these, 47 had acute myocardial infarction, 13 had unstable angina, and 64 were age-matched patients with stable angina. Of the 60 patients with acute coronary artery disease, 34 received thrombolysis and 26 did not. In addition to Lp(a), serum plasminogen, alpha 2 antiplasmin, fibrinogen, and D-dimer (cross-linked fibrin degradation products) levels were measured. These tests were repeated after 6 hours in patients with myocardial infarction and unstable angina. No significant difference was found for admission Lp(a) levels among patients with myocardial infarction (0.324 +/- 0.047 g/liter), unstable angina (0.435 +/- 0.123 g/liter) and stable angina (0.431 +/- 0.023 g/liter), between patients with myocardial infarction with or without thrombolytic treatment, nor between late and early measurements in patients with unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction. Plasminogen, alpha 2 antiplasmin and fibrinogen values decreased significantly after thrombolytic treatment. The size of this decrease correlated positively with higher Lp(a) blood levels (p less than 0.05). Patients with Lp(a) greater than 0.25 g/liter had a 66% decrease in fibrinogen and a 53% decrease in anti-plasmin, compared with 35 and 32%, respectively, in patients with Lp(a) level less than or equal to 0.25 g/liter (p less than 0.05). Plasminogen levels revealed a similar trend, with a 61% decrease for the higher values and a 45% decrease for the lower values. 
Orthotopic liver transplantation, Epstein-Barr virus, cyclosporine, and lymphoproliferative disease: a growing concern. Lymphoproliferative disease (LPD) is a well-recognized complication of both solid organ and bone marrow transplantations. The occurrence of LPD in these settings is related in part to the use of the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporine. We report 12 cases of LPD after orthotopic liver transplantations in 132 pediatric patients. Lymphoproliferative disease occurred as one of three clinical syndromes: (1) lymphadenopathic, (2) systemic, and (3) lymphomatous. Effective management of LPD with excisional therapy or reduction of immunosuppressive medications or both resulted in the survival of 7 of 12 patients. In an alarming and increasing percentage of patients after orthotopic liver transplantation, progressive LPD develops with lethal outcome (5/12 patients). Early recognition of LPD and aggressive intervention may improve outcome in this group. 
Coffee, coronary heart disease and mortality in middle-aged Swedish men: findings from the Primary Prevention Study. The effect of coffee consumption on the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) was studied prospectively in a population sample of 6765 men aged 51-59 years at baseline during the period 1974-1977, and free of myocardial infarction (MI) prior to the screening. During a 7.1-year follow-up there were 230 non-fatal myocardial infarctions. 169 coronary deaths and 478 deaths from all causes. Among men who were smokers at baseline there was no relationship between either non-fatal MI or death from CHD, and coffee consumption. Among non-smokers, a weak but far from significant trend towards an increasing incidence of CHD in heavy consumers of coffee was observed. There was an inverse relationship between mortality from all causes and coffee consumption. 
Dietary lipid predictors of coronary heart disease in men. The Framingham Study. The relationship between dietary lipids and the 16-year incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) morbidity and mortality was examined in two male cohorts, aged 45 to 55 years (n = 420) and 56 to 65 years (n = 393) from the Framingham Study. Dietary lipids were assessed through a single 24-hour recall at the initiation of follow-up in 1966 to 1969. In the younger cohort, there were significant positive associations between the incidence of CHD and the proportion of dietary energy intake from total fat and monounsaturated fatty acids. The proportion of energy intake from saturated fatty acids had a marginally significant positive association with CHD. The associations remained even after adjustment for cardiovascular disease risk factors, including serum cholesterol level, suggesting that their effects are at least partially independent of other established risk factors. In contrast to the younger cohort, none of the dietary lipids were associated with CHD in the older cohort. Dietary intervention for the prevention of CHD in younger men is supported by these findings. 
Pill-esophagitis caused by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. A case of meclofenamate-induced pill-esophagitis is reported, and the relevant literature is reviewed. The role of posture, amount of fluid chaser, esophageal obstruction or dysmotility, drug formulation, physical and chemical properties of the drug, and concomitant ingestion of alcohol, as well as the diagnosis and management of such cases, are discussed. 
Increase in atherosclerosis and adventitial mast cells in cocaine abusers: an alternative mechanism of cocaine-associated coronary vasospasm and thrombosis. Coronary vasospasm has been implicated as a cause of myocardial ischemia and sudden cardiac death in cocaine abusers. However, the mechanism or mechanisms remain unknown. Autopsy records (n = 5,871) from the medical examiner's files at Baltimore, Maryland and northern Virginia were examined and 495 persons (8.4%) were identified with positive toxicologic findings for cocaine. Of these, six subjects (1.2%) had total thrombotic occlusion, involving primarily the left anterior descending coronary artery. The mean number of adventitial mast cells per coronary segment and the degree of atherosclerosis were determined. These observations were compared with findings in age- and gender-matched subjects who died from cocaine overdose and in patients who had sudden cardiac death (acute thrombosis) without a history of illicit drug abuse. There were significantly more mast cells in subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis than in the other groups. The number of mast cells showed a significant correlation with the degree of cross-sectional luminal narrowing (r = 0.68) in subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis but not in subjects with sudden death due to thrombosis (r = 0.34, p less than 0.03). Subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis also had significant coronary atherosclerosis without plaque hemorrhage (five had one or more vessels with greater than 75% cross-sectional area luminal narrowing) despite a mean age of 29 +/- 2 years. These findings suggest that adventitial mast cells may potentiate atherosclerosis and vasospasm, thrombosis and premature sudden death in long-term cocaine abusers. 
Pineal teratoma and its relationship to intracerebral development: case report. A teratoma of the pineal region in a 20-year-old Australian Aborigine is presented in which an unusual location of the straight sinus and tentorium cerebelli suggests that the tumor arose before 4 months of gestation. In addition, this case provides some insight into the development of the falx cerebri, which might arise from the midline fusion of the left and right tentoria cerebelli caused by the dorsal development of the telencephalon. 
Electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects, efficacy and safety of encainide in malignant ventricular arrhythmias associated with coronary artery disease. The electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects, efficacy and safety of encainide were evaluated in 48 patients with coronary artery disease undergoing programmed stimulation for ventricular tachyarrhythmias. The study group included 41 men and 7 women, aged 64 +/- 8 years (mean +/- standard deviation), who had presented with nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) (4 patients), sustained VT (32), ventricular fibrillation (8) or unexplained syncope (4). The left ventricular ejection fraction averaged 34 +/- 13%. The arrhythmias induced at the baseline, drug-free electrophysiologic study included nonsustained VT in 8 patients, sustained VT in 35 and ventricular fibrillation in 5. All patients had failed greater than or equal to 1 class IA and a combination of class IA and IB agents (mean 2.2 +/- 1.1 drugs) before encainide. Oral encainide was given in a mean daily dose of 80 +/- 11 mg for greater than or equal to 3 days before repeat programmed stimulation. Encainide was discontinued before follow-up electrophysiologic testing in 5 patients due to spontaneous development of new sustained VT. Of the 43 patients undergoing electropharmacologic testing with encainide, 5 had no inducible arrhythmia. In 9 patients VT was inducible by fewer extrastimuli, in 2 patients a previously stable VT required cardioversion, whereas in 28 patients VT remained inducible by the same number of or more extrastimuli. Thus, encainide prevented the induction of VT or ventricular fibrillation in 5 of 48 patients (10%), while it had a possible proarrhythmic effect in 15 patients (31%). Of the 5 patients without inducible VT administered long-term encainide therapy, 1 returned within 4 weeks of hospital discharge with VT recurrence. 
Usefulness of mammography and sonography in women less than 35 years of age. Indications, clinical history, mammographic findings, and clinical outcome were reviewed in 1,016 women younger than 35 years who underwent mammography during an 8-year period. The indications for mammography were a palpable mass in 454 (44.7%), findings at routine screening in 237 (23.3%), lumpiness in 29 (14.9%), unilateral nipple discharge in seven (3.5%), localized breast tenderness in six (5.1%), adenopathy in three (1.9%), diffuse tenderness in two (2.9%), bilateral nipple discharge in two (1.5%), and miscellaneous in four (2.2%). In 405 women (39.9%), at least two-thirds of the breast tissue was radiodense; however, in 299 (29.4%) women the breast was predominantly fatty, allowing for excellent mammograms. Six women had carcinomas: Mammographic findings prompted biopsy in one patient, indicated a benign-appearing mass (found to be solid at sonography or aspiration) in three patients with a palpable mass (contributing to delay in biopsy in two), and were negative in two. Sonography was performed in 389 women and was useful in preventing unnecessary biopsy of cysts but was not useful in differentiating benign from malignant solid masses. Younger women with persistent localized breast symptoms should undergo a tailored mammographic examination, but negative findings or findings of a benign lesion should not preclude biopsy of a palpable solid mass. 
Pattern of arterial involvement of the head, neck, and eyes in giant cell arteritis: three case reports. The findings of two post-mortem examinations and one CT scan of patients with biopsy proved giant cell arteritis (GCA) are presented. The presence or absence of intracranial involvement in GCA is discussed. 
Prognostic value of serum beta-2 microglobulin in low-grade lymphoma. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate serum beta-2 microglobulin (beta-2M) and other prognostic indicators in previously untreated low-grade lymphoma. DESIGN: Cohort study of 80 patients with uniformly treated low-grade lymphoma, followed for a median of 21 months. These 80 patients, all of whom had serum beta-2M drawn within 2 weeks before starting therapy, were derived from a cohort of 119 previously untreated patients entered into one of three clinical trials. SETTING: Tertiary referral cancer center. PATIENTS: Eighty previously untreated stage I to IV patients (mean age, 55 years). INTERVENTION: Treatment was given according to Ann Arbor stage: Patients in stage IV were treated with CHOP-bleomycin and maintained on interferon therapy; those in stage III received CHOP-bleomycin and radiotherapy; and those in stages I and II received COP-bleomycin and radiotherapy. MEASUREMENTS: Outcome was determined by assessing complete remission rate and time to treatment failure. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used. RESULTS: The complete remission rate for patients with a beta-2M level of 3.0 mg/L or greater was 36% compared with 71% for those with a level of less than 3.0 mg/L. Using multivariate analysis that tested beta-2M as a continuous variable, it was selected as the most significant factor for complete response. The adjusted odds ratio was 0.285 (95% CI, 0.101 to 0.809). The Ann Arbor stage had marginal significance (adjusted odds ratio, 0.435; CI, 0.150 to 1.263). For time to treatment failure, beta-2M was the only variable retained in the multivariate model. At 42 months, no patient with a beta-2M level of 3.0 mg/L or greater was projected to be in remission as compared with 85% of patients with a beta-2M level of less than 3.0 mg/L. CONCLUSIONS: The serum beta-2M level is a good predictor of complete response and time to treatment failure. A larger number of patients should be studied to clarify the role of other potentially independent variables such as stage and age. 
A comparison between iotrolan, a non-ionic dimer, and a hyperosmolar contrast medium, Urografin, in hysterosalpingography. For hysterosalpingography, there were no significant differences between the non-ionic dimeric contrast medium iotrolan (300 mgI/%) and Urografin (370 mgI/%) with regard to ease of application or radiographic quality, and both agents were equally suitable. There were no significant differences between two groups of patients with regard to pain due to instrumentation, pain at the time of injection and pain up to 2 h after the procedure. There was a significant difference (p = 0.04) between the two groups with respect to delayed pain, when iotrolan was associated with a lower incidence and decreased severity of delayed pain. There were no differences in the incidence of nausea, vomiting, headache and syncope. No allergic phenomena were seen in either group. 
Sperm chromosomes and habitual abortion. Genetic factors, especially numerical chromosome anomalies, play an important role in embryonic loss. Because somatic cell analysis cannot assess the risk of errors arising de novo during germ cell maturation, we investigated whether the male gametes from couples with habitual abortion carry a higher rate of anomalies than those from donors without reproductive dysfunction. Our results indicate that there is no significant difference between the two groups for the total rates of aneuploidy and structural anomalies. However, the levels of chromosome breaks and acentric fragments were significantly higher in the abortion group. The implications of this fact remain to be investigated. 
Interactions of serum copper, selenium, and low density lipoprotein cholesterol in atherogenesis. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the interactions between serum copper, selenium, and low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations with regard to the progression of carotid atherosclerosis. DESIGN--Longitudinal study of a cohort of middle aged men followed up for 24 months. SETTING--Epidemiological survey of the population of seven communities in eastern Finland. SUBJECTS--126 men aged 42, 48, 54, or 60 at examination randomly selected from a population based sample of 2682 men. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Increase in maximal carotid intima media thickness. RESULTS--The mean increase in the maximal common carotid intima media thickness after two years was greater in men with high serum copper concentrations (0.16 mm compared with 0.08 mm in men with concentrations less than 17.6 mumol/l; p = 0.010), those with low serum selenium concentrations (0.15 mm compared with 0.09 mm in men with concentrations greater than or equal to 1.40 mumol/l; p = 0.035), and those with raised serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations (0.15 mm compared with 0.08 mm in men with concentrations less than 4.0 mmol/l; p = 0.032) after adjustment for age and cigarette pack years in a three way analysis of covariance. A raised serum low density lipoprotein concentration was associated with accelerated progression of atherosclerosis only in men with higher than median serum copper concentrations (net difference 0.22 mm; p less than 0.001 for two way interaction), and this synergism was even more pronounced in men with serum selenium concentrations below the median value (net difference 0.41 mm; p = 0.042 for three way interaction). CONCLUSION--These data provide evidence of a synergistic effect of copper (a pro-oxidant), a low serum concentration of selenium (a cofactor of an enzyme that scavenges free radicals), and low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration in atherogenesis. 
Presynaptic and postsynaptic striatal dopaminergic function in neuroacanthocytosis: a positron emission tomographic study. Using [18F]dopa, [11C]raclopride, C15O2, and positron emission tomography, we have assessed striatal dopamine storage capacity, dopamine D2-receptor integrity, and regional cerebral blood flow, respectively, of 6 patients with neuroacanthocytosis. The patients with neurocanthocytosis all had chorea and variable combinations of seizures, dementia, axonal neuropathy, and orolingual self-multiation. [18F]dopa positron emmission tomographic findings were compared with 30 normal controls and 16 patients with sporadic, L-dopa-responsive, Parkinson's disease. Caudate and anterior putamen [18F]dopa uptake were normal in patients with neuroacanthocytosis, but mean posterior putamen [18F]dopa uptake was reduced to 42% of normal, similar to that in patients with Parkinson's disease. In patients with neuroacanthocytosis, mean equilibrium caudate: cerebellum and putamen: cerebellum [11C]raclopride uptake ratios were reduced to 54% and 62% of normal, compatible with a 65% and 53% loss of caudate and putamen D2-receptor-binding sites, respectively. Striatal and frontal blood flow was also depressed. The severe loss of D2-receptor-bearing striatal neuron, with concomitant loss of dopaminergic projections from the nigra to the posterior putamen, is consistent with both chorea and extrapyramidal rigidity being features of patients with neuroacanthocytosis. 
Influence of balloon size and stenosis morphology on immediate and delayed elastic recoil after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. After successful coronary angioplasty, the minimal luminal diameter of the dilated coronary artery segment is generally smaller than the diameter of the largest balloon catheter at the maximal inflation pressure. The determinants of this phenomenon were studied in 28 patients. Biplane angiograms were obtained after intracoronary administration of isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg) before, immediately and 24 h after coronary angioplasty. Balloon and coronary luminal diameters were measured by automated contour detection. Immediately after the procedure, the difference between inflated balloon diameter and minimal luminal diameter averaged 0.93 +/- 0.43 mm for the entire group and was greater both in eccentric stenoses (1.13 +/- 0.39 vs. 0.70 +/- 0.36 mm; p less than 0.01) and after angioplasty with an oversized balloon (1.20 +/- 0.37 vs. 0.71 +/- 0.33 mm; p less than 0.005). At 24 h, the balloon - minimal luminal diameter difference was unchanged at the group level (0.86 +/- 0.38 mm, but the minimal luminal diameter increased significantly in the subgroup of coronary segments dilated with an oversized balloon (1.97 +/- 0.37 vs. 1.81 +/- 0.28 mm; p less than 0.05). Thus, the difference between the minimal diameter of a dilated coronary segment immediately after a successful coronary balloon angioplasty procedure and the maximal diameter of the inflated balloon catheter is dependent both on eccentricity of the stenosis and on the balloon/artery diameter ratio. Moreover, the increase in minimal luminal diameter 24 h after angioplasty performed with an oversized balloon suggest that in addition to elastic recoil partly reversible factors related to vessel barotrauma are involved. 
DNA ploidy and prostate-specific antigen as prognostic factors in clinically resectable prostate cancer. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and DNA ploidy as measured by flow cytometry were compared with conventional prognostic indicators in 112 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for clinically resectable prostate cancer. The variables examined included age, race, prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), Gleason score of the radical prostatectomy specimen, and pathologic stage. No significant relationships were found between DNA ploidy and age, mean PAP value, and absolute PAP value. Of the 112 patients, 65 (58.0%) had disease limited to the prostate (pathologic Stages A and B); 47 (42.0%) had extraprostatic disease (pathologic Stages C and D1). The stage was related to the Gleason score (P less than 0.0001) where extraprostatic disease was associated with a Gleason score of 6 to 10. Nineteen (17.0%) patients had aneuploid tumors, and 93 (83.0%) had diploid tumors. DNA ploidy significantly correlated with pathologic stage (P = 0.04); aneuploidy was identified more frequently in patients with Stages C and D1 tumors. Aneuploid tumors occurred more frequently than diploid tumors in patients with a Gleason score of 6 to 10 (P = 0.034). Mean PSA values were higher in patients with aneuploid tumors (P = 0.078), extraprostatic neoplasms (P = 0.00001), and cancers with a Gleason score of 6 to 10 (P = 0.0004). Furthermore, PSA values greater than 10.0 ng/ml were associated with extraprostatic disease and a Gleason score of 6 to 10 (P less than 0.05 and P less than 0.001, respectively). Significant racial differences were found with respect to DNA ploidy, mean DNA indices, and mean PSA values. The 18 black patients had more DNA aneuploid tumors (P = 0.043), a higher mean DNA index (P = 0.017), and a higher mean PSA value (P = 0.043) than the 94 white patients. Both PSA and DNA ploidy analysis by flow cytometry appear to be valuable indicators in the evaluation of patients with prostatic carcinoma. 
Epikeratoplasty for keratoglobus associated with blue sclera. Patients with keratoglobus and blue sclera as part of a generalized connective tissue disorder are at a high risk of developing corneal perforations either spontaneously or after mild trauma. Six patients (6 eyes) between the ages of 2 and 16 years of age (mean, 7.5 years) with keratoglobus, blue sclera, hypermobile joints, and consanguineous parents were treated by epikeratoplasty, using commercially prepared 12.5-mm lenticules. Surgery was performed for tectonic support and/or visual improvement and was successful in five of six patients with a follow-up period of 11 to 27 months (mean, 21 months). One lenticule was removed because the epithelium did not heal. Peripheral interface opacities occurred in three patients. 
Clinical course and outcome in class IC antiarrhythmic overdose. 120 cases of class IC antiarrhythmic overdose, including propafenone, flecainide, ajmaline and prajmaline overdose, were evaluated with respect to clinical course, therapy and outcome. Whereas drug overdose in general has an overall mortality of less than 1%, intoxication with antiarrhythmic drugs of class IC was associated with a mean mortality of 22.5%. Nausea, which occurred within the first 30 minutes after ingestion, was the earliest symptom. Spontaneous vomiting probably led to self-detoxication in about half the patients. Cardiac symptoms including bradycardia and, less frequently, tachyrhythmia occurred after about 30 minutes to 2 hours. Therapeutic measures included administration of activated charcoal, gastric lavage and a saline laxative, catecholamines, and in some patients, hypertonic sodium bicarbonate, insertion of a transvenous pacemaker and hemoperfusion. Fatal outcome was mainly due to cardiac conduction disturbances progressing to electromechanical dissociation or asystolia. Resuscitation, which had to be performed in 29 patients, was successful in only two of them. No correlation was found between fatal outcome, the type of antiarrhythmic, and ingested dose. Since a specific treatment is not available and resuscitive procedures including sodium bicarbonate and insertion of a pacemaker are of limited therapeutic value, early diagnosis and primary detoxification are most important for prevention of fatal outcome. 
Cytologic brushings of ductal lesions during ERCP. Cytologic brushings of ductal lesions noted at ERCP are a reliable method of diagnosing malignancy. However, prior studies have involved only small numbers of patients. This study presents the results of attempted brushings in 69 patients. A satisfactory specimen was obtained in 62 patients (90%). The overall sensitivity was 44% with 100% specificity. Common bile duct brushings had a higher sensitivity rate than did pancreatic brushings. Similarly, biliary tract cancer was more likely to be diagnosed than was pancreatic cancer by brushing. Markedly atypical cells were identified in 36% of patients with a false negative cytology result. These findings were not seen in patients with benign disease. Two patients developed mild pancreatitis and one developed cholangitis. It is unclear what role the act of brushing had on causing these complications. 
Symptomatic diverticulum of the 4th ventricle. A case of symptomatic diverticulum of the 4th ventricle in a 57-year-old man is presented. This clinicopathological observation supports a relationship between ventricular diverticula and ependyma-lined paraventricular cysts. 
External cardiopulmonary resuscitation preserves brain viability after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs. Standard external cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) steps A-B-C produce a low blood flow that may or may not preserve brain viability during prolonged cardiac arrest. A dog model was used with ventricular fibrillation (VF) of 20 minutes, reperfusion with brief cardiopulmonary bypass, controlled ventilation to 20 hours, and intensive care to 96 hours. A retrospective comparison was made of the results of one series, now called "group I" (n = 10)--which received CPR basic life support interposed from VF 10 to 15 minutes, and CPR advanced life support with epinephrine (without defibrillation) from VF 15 to 20 minutes--to the results of another series, now "control group II" (n = 10)--which received VF no flow (no CPR) for 20 minutes. All 20 dogs within protocol were resuscitated. All 10 of group I and 7 of 10 of group II survived to 96 hours. Pupillary light reflex returned after the start of cardiopulmonary bypass at 7.7 +/- 3.7 minutes in CPR group I, versus 16.3 +/- 7.4 minutes in control group II (P = .032). At 96 hours postarrest, final overall performance categories (1, normal; 5, brain death) were better in group I. Six of 10 dogs achieved normality (overall performance category 1) in group I, as compared with none of 10 in group II (P = .004). Final neurologic deficit score (0%, best; 100% worst) was lower (better) in group I (15% +/- 20%) than in group II (51% +/- 6%; P less than .001). 
Exacerbation of partial seizures and onset of nonepileptic myoclonus with carbamazepine. A child had two to three generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures per week unresponsive to phenobarbital (PB) and valproate (VPA). Interictal EEG demonstrated left occipital spikes. When carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy was started, he developed very frequent (4-6/day) complex partial seizures (CPS) characterized on ictal EEG by focal right temporal lobe discharges. The seizure exacerbation, which was associated with development of nonepileptic, multifocal myoclonus, resolved 24 h after CBZ was discontinued. The exacerbation occurred with therapeutic CBZ serum levels, but may have been related to the toxic levels of carbamazepine-10, 11-epoxide (CBZE). 
Neurotoxicity after intracarotid 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea administration in the rat: hemodynamic changes studied by double-tracer autoradiography. Changes in blood-brain (BBB) permeability and local cerebral blood flow after intracarotid administration of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) were examined quantitatively in rats with double-tracer autoradiography using [14C]alpha-amino-isobutyric acid and [18F]fluoroantipyrine. Forty-eight female Wistar rats were divided into four groups. The control group (Group 1) received 1 ml of 5% dextrose. The other three groups received three different doses of BCNU dissolved in 5% dextrose: Group II rats received 1 mg, Group III 3 mg, and Group IV 10 mg. The tracer study was performed on Day 1 or Days 4 to 12 after intracarotid administration of BCNU. In 11 rats in Group II, there were no changes of BBB permeability. Transient BBB permeability changes were seen in the striatum or hippocampus in 3 of the 5 rats (60%) in Group III within 24 hours. In 8 of 9 rats (89%) in the same group, late BBB permeability changes were observed in the hypothalamus with or without histological changes. BBB permeability changes were seen in all rats of Group IV. Focal increase of local cerebral blood flow on the infused side compared with the non-infused side of the brain was observed, although not at a significant level, in 5 of 25 rats examined with [18F]fluoroantipyrine. The results of BBB permeability and histological examinations and study of heterogenous distribution by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose indicated that the ipsilateral subcortical structures such as the hypothalamus, amygdala, internal capsule, and caudate putamen have the highest incidence of neurotoxicity, which are closely related to histopathological damage seen in human BCNU leucoencephalopathy. 
Correlation of clinical and histopathologic features in clinically atypical melanocytic nevi. To define better the evolving entity of dysplastic melanocytic nevus (DMN), studies correlating clinical with histologic features of DMN are essential. However, based on a literature search, no previous quantitative analysis was found of the relationship between gross morphologic features and histologic features of DMN. The authors correlated individual clinical features with histopathologic features and histologic diagnosis of the clinically most atypical nevus in 153 melanoma patients. This nevus was identified, evaluated clinically, and removed for histologic evaluation from each patient. Gross morphologic features assessed for nevi included: size (in mm), the presence of a macular component, irregular border, ill-defined border, haphazard coloration, distortion of skin cleavage lines on tangential lighting, asymmetry, and number of colors present (12 features in all). Nineteen histologic features were assessed in each nevus by a single dermatopathologist. These included architectural, nuclear, and cytoplasmic parameters ascribed to dysplastic nevi. Each of these histologic features was correlated with the 12 individual clinical features. Seventeen percent of the nevi fulfilled the criteria for the histologic diagnosis of DMN. Among individual nevus parameters, size (in mm), irregular border, ill-defined border, macular component, and pink color were associated significantly with histologic DMN. Nevus size (in mm) and irregular borders correlated with the greatest number of individual histologic parameters. A comparison of clinicopathologic correlations for two different examiners revealed that certain clinical features are probably more important than others for the recognition of dysplastic nevi and that individual examiners have different thresholds for the perception of some gross morphologic features. These observations are relevant to the development of clinical criteria for dysplastic nevi. 
Left cardiac sympathetic denervation in the therapy of congenital long QT syndrome. A worldwide report. BACKGROUND. Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a congenital disorder accompanied by a high incidence of sudden cardiac death. beta-Adrenergic blockade is the therapy of choice, and it is successful in 75-80% of patients. For those in whom cardiac events (syncope or cardiac arrest) are not prevented by beta-blockade, experimental studies suggest that left cardiac sympathetic denervation (LCSD) may be useful. METHODS AND RESULTS. We identified 85 LQTS patients worldwide who underwent LCSD, and we provide here the first large-scale evaluation of its efficacy. The time interval between the first cardiac event and LCSD and the follow-up period after LCSD were similar (5.6 +/- 6.1 versus 5.9 +/- 5.7 years). The mean age of the patients at surgery was 20 +/- 13 years. LCSD was followed by highly significant (p less than 0.0001) decreases in the number of patients with cardiac events (from 99% to 45%), in the number of cardiac events per patient (from 22 +/- 32 to 1 +/- 3), and in the number of patients with five or more cardiac events (from 71% to 10%). There were seven sudden deaths (8%), and the 5-year survival rate was 94%. The marked reduction in the incidence of tachyarrhythmic syncope suggests that LCSD has also reduced the risk for sudden death in this high-risk population. CONCLUSIONS. The present findings demonstrate that for LQTS patients who continue with syncope or cardiac arrest despite the use of beta-blockers, LCSD is a very effective therapy. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma in a recurrent thoracic chordoma: case report and literature review. Malignant transformation in a recurrent chordoma in the thoracic region is extremely uncommon. One new case, as well as a review of spinal chordomas that have undergone malignant transformation, is reported. Such cases emphasize the importance of the aggressive initial surgical treatment of spinal tumors. 
Are patients with primary biliary cirrhosis hypermetabolic? A comparison between patients before and after liver transplantation and controls. Wasting is common in end-stage primary biliary cirrhosis and causes concern in patients facing liver transplantation. We have quantified resting metabolic rate and diet-induced thermogenesis in seven patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, in seven patients after liver transplantation who had previously been diagnosed as having primary biliary cirrhosis and in seven controls. Resting metabolic rate was elevated in the primary biliary cirrhosis group (4.44 +/- 0.81 kJ/hr/kg body wt; mean +/- S.D.) compared with the post-liver-transplantation group (3.39 +/- 0.40 kJ/hr/kg body wt) (p less than 0.005) and compared with control subjects (3.65 +/- 0.23 kJ/hr/kg body wt) (p less than 0.01). A highly significant relationship was found between the severity of liver disease in the primary biliary cirrhosis group, as assessed by Child-Pugh score, and the resting metabolic rate group (r = 0.93; p less than 0.005). After a liquid meal (41 kJ/kg body wt), the metabolic rate increased, with similar peak changes from baseline occurring in all three groups. However, the rise persisted significantly longer in the primary biliary cirrhosis patients, and thus the integrated mean postprandial energy expenditure over the 4-hr postprandial observation period was greater in the primary biliary cirrhosis group than in the other two groups (p less than 0.001). 
Percutaneous intraarterial thrombolysis in the treatment of thrombosis of lower extremity arterial reconstructions. Vascular grafts may be salvaged with thrombolytic therapy after acute occlusion as an alternative to balloon catheter thrombectomy. From October 1987 to May 1990, 15 arterial bypasses to the lower extremity (infrainguinal saphenous vein [n = 7] or expanded polytetrafluoroethylene [n = 6], and Dacron aortofemoral bifurcation graft limbs [n = 2]) were treated for 30 occulsions with intraarterial urokinase (390,000 IU to 5,808,000 IU) infused from 3 to 40 hours. The origins of 15 graft occlusions were morphologic defects (intimal hyperplasia with anastomotic or conduit stricture), pseudoaneurysm, or progression of disease distal to the graft. Two occlusions were attributed to coagulation disorders. A cause could not be identified for 13 occlusions. Patency was initially restored to all grafts with use of thrombolytic therapy, however, adjunctive surgical thrombectomy to remove persistent thrombus from the graft or outflow vessels was required after six thrombolytic infusions. One graft in the series could not be salvaged leading to below-knee amputation. Graft defects were corrected by balloon angioplasty (n = 7) or surgical revision of the conduit (n = 8). Five significant hemorrhagic complications occurred from the catheter insertion site requiring four emergent surgical procedures and resulting in the death of a fifth patient from a myocardial infarction. This technique allows chemical thrombectomy of branch arteries distal to the graft and inaccessible to a balloon embolectomy catheter, and permits diagnosis of abnormal graft morphology that may be the cause of the graft occlusion. Graft reocclusion can be expected if technical defects in the arterial reconstruction are not revised or hypercoagulable states are not treated. 
Effects of positive end-expiratory pressure on splanchnic circulation and function in experimental peritonitis. Splanchnic and central hemodynamic effects of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) were studied in anesthetized pigs using mechanical ventilatory assistance, with or without sepsis (fecal peritonitis). One hour after sepsis, PEEP (10 cm H2O) was applied (n = 6). Another group (n = 6) had sepsis without PEEP. In one group (n = 6) without sepsis, PEEP was applied after 1 hour, while a fourth group (n = 5), without sepsis or PEEP, served as a control. The group with PEEP and sepsis had reduced cardiac index, portal venous blood flow, and liver surface blood flow. The group with PEEP alone had reduced splanchnic circulation by increasing gastrointestinal vascular resistance, while the group with sepsis alone had increased portal vascular resistance. In a separate series with sepsis, intermittent PEEP, and vigorous fluid resuscitation, it was demonstrated that avoiding hypovolemia did not seem to protect from the PEEP effects on the splanchnic circulation. The combination of sepsis and PEEP was not additive on portal blood flow reduction but reduced bile production. 
Effect of glycine on medullary thick ascending limb injury in perfused kidneys. The addition of 2 mM glycine to the recirculating perfusate of isolated perfused rat kidneys almost completely prevented the severe morphological injury to tubular cells lining the medullary thick ascending limb (mTAL) that normally develops in this preparation. Glycine was similarly effective in reducing mTAL injury associated with hypoxic perfusion, indomethacin and amphotericin. Fractional reabsorption of sodium was increased with glycine, without any change in perfusate flow to the whole kidney and without consistent improvement in GFR. L-alanine demonstrated a similar though less pronounced cytoprotective action, but glutamine, cysteine, glutamate, cysteine plus glutamate, 1-serine and 4-aminoisobutyric acid all had little or no effect in preventing severe mTAL injury. The protective effect of glycine was unimpaired by the arginine analogue NG-monomethyl-l-arginine (L-NMMA), suggesting that the endothelial-derived relaxing factor, NO, was not involved. The action of glycine was not reduced by the addition of a substrate (benzoate) or a product (hippurate) of the glycine N-acyltransferase reaction. Glycine did not depress the respiration of dispersed mTALs prepared from rat kidneys. The cytoprotective effect of glycine in the mTAL of perfused kidneys, shared with l-alanine, appears to be relatively specific for these amino acids and probably unrelated to a diminution in cell work. 
Characteristics of a random sample of emergency food program users in New York: I. Food pantries. Food pantry users throughout New York State were studied and many demographic differences found between New York City and Upstate New York respondents. Seven percent of households had no income and median income as percent of the poverty level was 59 percent. Slightly more than 40 percent were spending over 60 percent of their incomes on housing. The data from this survey, the first in New York State to employ a random sampling design, demonstrate a sizable gap between household needs and available resources. 
Salmonella: a rare cause of subacute effusive-constrictive pericarditis. A 36 year old woman had emergency pericardectomy because of subacute effusive-constrictive pericarditis. The pericardial fluid and tissue culture showed that this was caused by infection with Salmonella enteritidis. Cardiac involvement with salmonella does not usually present in such an aggressive manner and it has not previously been reported to cause this rare type of cardiac constriction. 
Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 2: Curettage-electrodesiccation. This is the second article in a series that reviews the experience in the Skin and Cancer Unit, from 1955 through 1982, with the treatment of basal cell carcinomas (BCCs). This report deals with 2314 previously untreated (primary) BCCs removed by curettage-electrodesiccation. Multivariate analysis showed that increasing lesion diameter (P less than .001), high-risk anatomic sites (nose, paranasal, nasal-labial groove, ear, chin, mandibular, peri-oral, and peri-ocular areas) (P less than .001), middle-risk anatomical sites (scalp, forehead, pre- and post-auricular, and malar areas) (P less than .001), and time-span treated (1955 to 1963) (P = .012) were independent risk factors for high recurrence rates. The patient's age, sex, and lesion duration before treatment did not affect the recurrence rates. In order to best illustrate our current experience with BCCs, the last time-span (1973 to 1982) was examined in detail. For the low-risk sites (neck, trunk, and four extremities), BCCs of all diameters responded well to curettage-electrodesiccation with an overall 5-year recurrence rate of 3.3% (SE = 1.5%) determined by the modified life-table method. In the middle-risk sites BCCs less than 10 mm in diameter had a recurrence rate of 5.3% (SE = 2.7%). Finally, in the high-risk sites, lesions less than 6 mm in diameter had a recurrence rate of 4.5% (SE = 2.6%). Thus, BCCs less than 6 mm in diameter, regardless of anatomic site, as well as selected larger BCCs depending on their anatomic site, are effectively treated by currettage-electrodesiccation. 
Isolated neurofibromas of the conjunctiva. We studied four histologically verified cases of isolated neurofibromas of the conjunctiva. The histologic pattern was diffuse in two patients, plexiform in one patient, and solitary in one patient. Simple excision was curative in all cases. We emphasize the importance of distinguishing neuromas (which may be associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia) from neurofibromas. 
Improved results with the addition of interferon alfa-2b to dacarbazine in the treatment of patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. Sixty-four patients with histologically confirmed metastatic malignant melanoma were entered on a prospectively controlled randomized trial. Patients received dacarbazine (DTIC) alone or DTIC plus interferon (IFN) alfa-2b. Patients were reasonably balanced with respect to age, sex, performance status (PS), site of metastases, and number of metastatic sites. Objective response (complete plus partial remission [CR + PR]) was documented in six patients on DTIC and in 16 patients on DTIC plus IFN alfa-2b. Median time to treatment failure (TTF) and median survival are significantly better on the combination arm, with some long-term CRs observed. More toxicity was encountered in the combination arm, which was acceptable except in three patients where treatment was discontinued because of IFN toxicity. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor: a gallium-avid mobile mesenteric mass. An 8-yr-old boy with a 1-mo history of culture-negative fever and anemia underwent gallium, ultrasound, and computed tomography studies as part of the evaluation of a fever of unknown origin. These studies revealed a mobile gallium-avid solid abdominal mass subsequently proven to be an inflammatory pseudotumor of the mesentery, a rare benign mass. This report documents the gallium-avid nature of this rare lesion and discusses associated characteristic clinical, pathologic, and radiographic features. 
Obstetrical anaesthesia for patients with the syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets. The syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets (HELLP Syndrome) is a consequence of severe preeclampsia/eclampsia. The clinical course is characterized by an unusual presentation with abdominal pain, and manifestations of inadequate haemostasis and excessive bleeding are common. Maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality are high. We report our experience with 33 patients over a five-year period. The mean gestational age (GA) of the pregnancies was 34 +/- 2.8 wk including 11 patients who delivered 12 neonates of less than 34 wk GA. The most common presenting complaints were right upper quadrant or epigastric pain in 25 patients (76%) and nausea or vomiting in 14 patients (42%). Diagnosis was missed or delayed in 12 patients (36%). Thirty-one patients (94%) were delivered by Caesarean section and a deteriorating maternal condition was the most common indication for operative delivery. Twenty-three patients received general anaesthesia, eight received epidural anaesthesia and there were no complications related to the anaesthetic. There was clinical evidence of abnormal haemostasis: seven patients had excessive blood loss at Caesarean section, two had postpartum haemorrhage, three developed DIC and four developed wound haematoma. The average decrease in haemoglobin concentration was 32 g.L-1 and twelve patients (36%) received blood transfusions. There was one stillbirth. There were no neonatal deaths but morbidity was prominent and related primarily to prematurity. Delayed or missed diagnosis is common in HELLP syndrome and a premature delivery by Caesarean section is usual. 
Efficacy of intravenous gammaglobulin therapy in chronic refractory polymyositis and dermatomyositis: an open study with 20 adult patients. PURPOSE: Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are inflammatory muscular diseases of unknown cause. Many interventions are available to treat patients with these conditions including corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drugs, plasmapheresis, and total body irradiation. However, these therapies are not always effective, and they may be associated with certain serious side effects. An attempt was made to evaluate the efficacy of polyvalent intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in patients with polymyositis or dermatomyositis refractory to traditional treatment. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty patients (16 women and 4 men; mean age 43 [16 SD] years), 14 with chronic refractory polymyositis and six with dermatomyositis, received high doses of IVIG because of the failure of traditional treatments (prednisone [19], methotrexate [10], azathioprine [6], cyclophosphamide [3], cyclosporine [3], chlorambucil [1], plasmapheresis [8], lymphopheresis [1], and total body irradiation [1]). In one patient with positive results on picornavirus serologic testing, IVIG was the first treatment choice. IVIG therapy was given with prednisone in 15 patients, with methotrexate in six patients, and with plasmapheresis in one patient. There were no changes in treatment in the 2 months before the introduction of IVIG therapy and no increases in dose during this treatment. Preparations of polyvalent human intravenous gammaglobulins with increased intact immunoglobulin G were used. Thirteen patients received 1 g/kg daily for 2 days each month, and seven patients received 0.4 g/kg daily for 5 days each month. The mean duration of treatment was 4 months. RESULTS: Clinical assessment, which consisted of the measurement of proximal muscle power, and biochemical studies were carried out before each treatment period. Significant clinical improvement was noted in 15 of the 20 patients. Mean muscle power estimated for the 20 patients before and after IVIG therapy was statistically significantly reduced (p less than 0.01). Eighteen patients showed biochemical improvement, and two patients with normal initial serum creatine kinase levels showed clinical improvement. Mean creatine kinase levels for the 20 patients during IVIG therapy showed a statistically significant decrease from the first IVIG perfusions (p less than 0.01). Side effects of IVIG therapy were noted in four patients; however, these effects were mild. During IVIG therapy, steroid doses were significantly reduced from the second or the third IVIG infusion (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSION: IVIG is an efficacious new therapy for polymyositis and dermatomyositis and should play a role in the treatment of these diseases, replacing or reducing steroid and immunosuppressive medications. 
Dual hemodynamic mechanisms for salt-induced hypertension in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. Cardiac output, blood volume, total peripheral resistance, and renal blood flow were measured in awake salt-sensitive and salt-resistant Dahl rats on normal rat chow (1% NaCl) and on high salt (8% NaCl) diets. Rats were studied after 4, 8, and 46 weeks on a 1% NaCl diet and after 4 and 8 weeks on an 8% NaCl diet. Salt-sensitive rats on 8% NaCl for 4 weeks developed systolic hypertension; by 8 weeks they developed greater systolic and also diastolic hypertension. Salt-resistant rats on 8% NaCl remained normotensive throughout the studies, although renal resistance decreased (p less than 0.05). At 4 weeks, hypertension in salt-sensitive rats on 8% NaCl was caused by increased blood volume and cardiac output (p less than 0.05), with normal total peripheral resistance. At 8 weeks, hypertension was due to increased total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.05); cardiac output was below normal despite persistent elevation of blood volume (p less than 0.05). Salt-sensitive rats on 1% NaCl for 46 weeks were hypertensive, with elevated total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.05); cardiac output decreased (p less than 0.05), whereas blood volume remained unchanged. Salt-resistant rats on 1% NaCl remained normotensive with no charges in hemodynamics. Salt-sensitive rats on 8% NaCl for 4 weeks had an increase in renal vascular resistance but no significant change in nonrenal resistance or total peripheral resistance. The increased total peripheral resistance in salt-sensitive rats on 8% NaCl for 8 weeks and on 1% NaCl for 46 weeks was a reflection of increases of both renal and nonrenal vascular resistance. 
Possible regulation of atrial natriuretic factor by neutral endopeptidase 24.11 and clearance receptors. The effects of a clearance receptor ligand Arg-Ser-Ser-Cys-Phe-Gly-Gly-Arg-Ile-Asp-Arg-Ile-Gly-Ala-Cys-NH2 with a disulfide bridge between the two cycteines [C-ANF(4-23)] and the potent neutral endopeptidase (NEP) inhibitor SQ 28,603 on mean arterial pressure (MAP), plasma atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) concentration and renal excretion of sodium and cyclic GMP were determined in conscious deoxycorticosterone acetate/salt hypertensive rats and normotensive rats. In the hypertensive rats, i.v. infusion of C-ANF(4-23) produced depressor responses of approximately 25 mm Hg, but did not significantly affect plasma ANF concentration or stimulate cyclic GMP excretion. In contrast, SQ 28,603 (300 mumol/kg i.v.) significantly reduced MAP and increased excretion of sodium and cyclic GMP. When C-ANF(4-23) was administered in combination with SQ 28,603, the depressor activity was additive and plasma ANF concentrations were significantly increased. The excretion of cyclic GMP was slightly enhanced, but, was not significantly different from the effects of SQ 28,603 alone. Neither SQ 28,603 nor C-ANF(4-23) affected MAP or plasma ANF in the normotensive rats. Finally, the in vitro hydrolysis of C-ANF(4-23) by NEP was prevented by SQ 28,603, indicating that inhibition of NEP may protect peptides recognized by the clearance receptors as well as the biological receptors for ANF. Therefore, the additive effects of C-ANF(4-23) and SQ 28,603 may be due to blockade of separate pathways which inactivate ANF or to the inhibition of C-ANF(4-23) degradation by NEP. 
Extracolonic manifestations of the familial adenomatous polyposis syndromes. The classic prototypes of the gastrointestinal polyposis syndromes are familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome. Extracolonic manifestations have been described in both diseases, and the distinction between them has become less clear. In fact, some authorities have suggested that familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome may represent a spectrum of the same disease. In both conditions, extracolonic expressions are the rule rather than the exception, and familiarity with them is essential for accurate diagnosis and correct patient management. In this pictorial essay, we discuss familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome together under the heading familial adenomatous polyposis syndromes. The colonic characteristics of these syndromes will be reviewed briefly, followed by examples of the most common extracolonic manifestations. 
Color Doppler ultrasound imaging in iatrogenic arterial injuries. Pulsatile masses following arterial puncture for diagnostic or therapeutic procedures may represent false aneurysms or noncommunicating periarterial hematomas with transmitted arterial pulsation. Color Doppler ultrasound imaging was used in 27 patients with pulsatile groin masses. Of these 27 patients, 23 were diagnosed as having pseudoaneurysms and 5 as having periarterial hematomas. The pseudoaneurysms were confirmed at surgical exploration, and the periarterial hematomas were all observed longitudinally with spontaneous resolution. With a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 100% in this clinical study, color Doppler ultrasound imaging appears to be the diagnostic modality of choice for detecting false aneurysms following transarterial procedures, obviating the need for additional invasive diagnostic procedures. 
Immunobiology of bone marrow transplantation as treatment for hematologic malignancies. In conclusion, graft-versus-leukemia is important to prevent leukemia relapse following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. This beneficial GVL effect is at least partly mediated by T-lymphocytes and is greatest in transplants from HLA-nongenotypically identical donors. GVL is associated with the presence of GVHD, although preliminary studies suggest it may be possible to separate these two processes. Improvement in treatment results requires innovative effective therapies to enhance the direct antineoplastic effects of the preparative regimen or immune-mediated antileukemia mechanisms. 
Plasma antigen levels of the lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor in patient samples. Human plasma contains an inhibitor of tissue factor-initiated coagulation known as the lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor (LACI) or also known as the extrinsic pathway inhibitor (EPI). A competitive fluorescent immunoassay was developed to measure the plasma concentration of LACI in samples from normal individuals and patients with a variety of diseases. The LACI concentration in an adult control population varied from 60% to 160% of the mean with a mean value corresponding to 89 ng/mL or 2.25 nmol/L. Plasma LACI levels were not decreased in patients with severe chronic hepatic failure, warfarin therapy, primary pulmonary hypertension, thrombosis, or the lupus anticoagulant. Plasma LACI antigen was decreased in some, but not all patients with gram-negative bacteremia and evidence for disseminated intravascular coagulation. Plasma LACI levels were elevated in women undergoing the early stages of labor (29%), in patients receiving intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator (45%), and in patients receiving intravenous heparin (375%). A radioligand blot of the pre- and post-heparin plasma samples shows the increase to be in a 40-Kd form of LACI. Very low levels of plasma LACI antigen were found in patients with homozygous abetalipoproteinemia and hypobetalipoproteinemia, diseases associated with low plasma levels of apolipoprotein B containing lipoproteins. Following the injection of heparin into one patient with homozygous abetalipoproteinemia, the plasma LACI antigen level increased to a level comparable with that in normal individuals after heparin treatment. 
Appendiceal Kaposi's sarcoma: a cause of right lower quadrant pain in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. These case reports describe two patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) who presented with acute right lower quadrant pain. Appendiceal involvement with Kaposi's sarcoma accounted for the clinical presentation, and was confirmed histologically. This association emphasizes the diagnostic confusion that may be caused by acute abdominal conditions in the AIDS population. Abdominal pain may result from AIDS-related or unrelated processes; appropriate operative intervention requires recognition of the various diagnostic possibilities. 
The heart in fatal unstable angina pectoris. Compared to patients with sudden coronary death and acute myocardial infarction, relatively little morphologic data has been reported in patients with unstable angina pectoris. This article reviews necropsy data collected from one laboratory on unstable angina pectoris. From these data, several observations are appropriate: (1) Patients with unstable angina as a group have more coronary narrowing by atherosclerotic plaque than do patients with sudden coronary death or acute or healed myocardial infarction. (2) Patients with unstable angina have a much higher frequency of severe narrowing of the left main coronary artery than do patients in other coronary subsets. (3) The coronary atherosclerotic plaques in unstable angina consist primarily of fibrous tissue, and they are more similar to those found in patients with sudden coronary death than in patients with acute myocardial infarction. (4) The frequency of acute coronary lesions (thrombi, plaque rupture, and plaque hemorrhage) is similar to that observed in patients with sudden coronary death and significantly less than that observed in acute myocardial infarction. (5) The frequency of multiluminal channels throughout the major coronary arteries is significantly higher in unstable angina compared to sudden coronary death or acute myocardial infarction. (6) The major epicardial arteries and the heart are smaller in patients with unstable angina than in patients with sudden coronary death or acute myocardial infarction. (7) The left ventricular cavity is usually of normal size in patients with unstable angina and therefore left ventricular function is usually normal. 
Staghorn calculi--long-term results of management. We have treated 167 patients with staghorn calculi. Conservative therapy was used in 61 patients who have been followed up for 1 to 18 years (average 7.8). Chronic renal failure occurred in 22 of these patients and 7 died from uraemia. The causes of chronic renal failure were bilateral staghorn calculi, staghorn calculi and contralateral urinary calculi, and chronic pyelonephritis of the contralateral kidney. The morbidity and mortality rates following conservative treatment were higher than those following surgical management. The pathological findings in 47 kidneys after nephrectomy showed severe hydronephrosis, renal abscess and xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis. These results indicated that staghorn calculi destroyed the kidney and early complete removal of these stones is advisable. 
Modifications by halothane of responses to acute hypoxia in systemic vascular capacitance, resistance, and sympathetic nerve activity in dogs. To examine the effects of halothane on segmental vascular responses to hypoxia, we used cardiopulmonary bypass with venous outflow divided into three compartments (splanchnic, coronary, and "other") in dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. The reservoir volume changes represented the inverted changes in systemic blood volume (SBV). In addition, sympathetic efferent nerve activity (SENA) was simultaneously recorded from the ventral ansa subclavian nerve. Experiments were done in two groups: severe hypoxia (PO2 of 19 mm Hg) and moderate hypoxia (PO2 of 50 mm Hg). Hypoxia provoked a significant decrease in SBV of 22.3 +/- 3.1 mL/kg and 10.5 +/- 1.6 mL/kg during severe and moderate hypoxia, respectively. Two percent end-tidal halothane attenuated the decrease in SBV to 10.3 +/- 1.3 mL/kg during severe hypoxia, and 1% halothane attenuated the decrease to 3.7 +/- 1.4 mL/kg during moderate hypoxia. Subsequent chemoreceptor denervation in the presence of 1% halothane completely abolished the moderate hypoxia-induced decrease in SBV. In the presence of halothane, vascular resistance during hypoxia was significantly less than that during control conditions. Sympathetic efferent nerve activity increased significantly during severe and moderate hypoxia by about 180% and 55%, respectively. During severe hypoxia, halothane did not cause any change in the response of SENA, whereas during moderate hypoxia, halothane tended to decrease SENA, but not significantly, and subsequent chemoreceptor denervation completely abolished the increase in SENA. Coronary resistance showed a hypoxia-induced reduction that was not influenced by halothane. These results suggest that acute hypoxia causes a decrease in SBV dependent on the severity of hypoxia. 
In utero diagnosis and management of fetal subdural hematoma. The in utero ultrasonographic diagnosis of a fetal subdural hematoma is presented. The value of percutaneous umbilical blood sampling, transvaginal ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosis and management is discussed. 
Ultrasonic angioplasty in totally occluded peripheral arteries. Initial clinical, histological, and angiographic results. BACKGROUND. Ultrasonic angioplasty was recently shown to ablate thrombi and atherosclerotic plaques in vitro and to recanalize occluded arteries in experimental animal models. The goal of the present study was to examine the clinical feasibility of ultrasonic angioplasty. METHODS AND RESULTS. Intraoperative ultrasonic angioplasty was performed in vivo on totally occluded peripheral arteries (n = 7). The ultrasonic angioplasty device consists of a 1.6-mm diameter flexible wire attached to a piezoelectric crystal generating ultrasound at 20 kHz. The controls, totally occluded human atherosclerotic femoral arterial segments (n = 6), were crossed mechanically with the ultrasound wire ex vivo but without application of ultrasonic energy. Ultrasonic angioplasty achieved successful recanalization without perforation in all vessels. Angiograms of the treated arteries showed an average lumen patency of 82.5%. Histological examination of the recanalized arteries revealed that the recanalization had taken place through intima diffusely involved with complicated plaque. The treated arteries, compared with the controls, had greater area of recanalized lumen (5.9 +/- 1.8 versus 1.7 +/- 0.4 mm2, p less than 0.05) and more flow (49.3 +/- 16.0 versus 11.8 +/- 4.9 ml/min, p less than 0.03). The damage in treated and control arteries was similar. Size-distribution analysis of the plaque debris from the treated arteries showed that 41 +/- 5% of the debris was 0.2-8 microns, 48 +/- 8% was 8-30 microns, and the remainder was 30-100 microns. In the mechanically crossed arteries, there was a shift in the distribution to larger size debris with 47 +/- 1% greater than 100 microns (p less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. Ultrasonic angioplasty may be a useful clinical method for recanalization of total occlusions in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Ultrasonic energy appears to cause controlled injury to the atherosclerotic intima by selectively disrupting the ultrasound-sensitive occlusion. 
Asymptomatic myocardial ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and importance of prior Q-wave infarction and diabetes mellitus. Eighty-eight patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of 100 stenoses were studied for the presence of factors deemed significant in the etiology of silent myocardial ischemia. Thirty-two patients were asymptomatic during balloon dilations of 36 arteries, and 56 patients had angina during PTCA of 64 arteries. There were no differences in age, sex, prior anginal history, antianginal regimen, extent of coronary artery disease and number or duration of inflations between the 2 study groups. Previous infarction (33 vs 12%, p less than 0.02), Q waves in the target area (31 vs 7%, p less than 0.005) and diabetes mellitus (36 vs 17%, p less than 0.05) were present more often in the asymptomatic group. Sixty-four% of all asymptomatic patients had either diabetes or previous infarction in the target territory. Collateral circulation was more frequent in asymptomatic patients, probably reflecting the ability of collateral arteries to ameliorate ischemia. During 2-vessel PTCA, patients without angina during dilation of only 1 of the 2 treated arteries (discordant responders) had previous infarction in that artery's territory (5 of 5, 100%), whereas patients without previous infarction were either symptomatic or asymptomatic (concordant responders) during PTCA of both arteries. This study shows that asymptomatic ischemia occurs frequently during PTCA in patients with symptomatic coronary disease. Prior Q-wave infarction and diabetes mellitus are important, independent factors associated with painless ischemia. It is suggested that infarction produces a localized dysfunction of afferent cardiac pain fibers, whereas diabetes can cause a global cardiac sensory neuropathy. 
A rare complement component C4 restriction fragment length polymorphism in two families with systemic lupus erythematosus. C4 null alleles with or without C4A,21-OHA gene deletions are associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in various populations. We describe a new, rare C4 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), a Taq I 3.5 kb fragment, in 2 patients with SLE and their families. This RFLP is not associated with one particular major histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotype and has not been reported in patients with SLE, patients with congenital adrenal insufficiency, or in healthy individuals. 
Marijuana as antiemetic medicine: a survey of oncologists' experiences and attitudes. A random-sample, anonymous survey of the members of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) was conducted in spring 1990 measuring the attitudes and experiences of American oncologists concerning the antiemetic use of marijuana in cancer chemotherapy patients. The survey was mailed to about one third (N = 2,430) of all United States-based ASCO members and yielded a response rate of 43% (1,035). More than 44% of the respondents report recommending the (illegal) use of marijuana for the control of emesis to at least one cancer chemotherapy patient. Almost one half (48%) would prescribe marijuana to some of their patients if it were legal. As a group, respondents considered smoked marijuana to be somewhat more effective than the legally available oral synthetic dronabinol ([THC] Marinol; Unimed, Somerville, NJ) and roughly as safe. Of the respondents who expressed an opinion, a majority (54%) thought marijuana should be available by prescription. These results bear on the question of whether marijuana has a "currently accepted medical use," at issue in an ongoing administrative and legal dispute concerning whether marijuana in smoked form should be available by prescription along with synthetic THC in oral form. This survey demonstrates that oncologists' experience with the medical use of marijuana is more extensive, and their opinions of it are more favorable, than the regulatory authorities appear to have believed. 
Abnormalities of pathways of fibrin turnover in the human pleural space. The potential importance of pleural fibrin deposition in the pathogenesis of pleural injury is supported by both clinical and experimental observations. We hypothesized that the local equilibrium between procoagulant and fibrinolytic activities is disrupted to favor fibrin deposition in exudative pleuritis. To test this hypothesis, we characterized procoagulant and fibrinolytic activities in pleural exudates from patients with pneumonia, lung cancer, or empyema and transudates from patients with congestive heart failure. Procoagulant activity was generally increased in exudative processes and was due mainly to tissue factor. All effusions contained antithrombin III and inhibited factor Xa and thrombin, but endogenous prothrombinase or thrombin activities were variably detected. Pleural fluid fibrinolytic activity was increased in congestive heart failure and was due to both tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase. Depressed fibrinolytic activity was found in pleural exudates despite increased concentrations of plasminogen, mainly glu-1-plasminogen, and was due to inhibition of plasminogen activation by plasminogen activator inhibitors 1 and 2 and of plasmin, in part by alpha 2-antiplasmin. Concentrations of PAI-1 in exudative pleural fluids were increased up to 913-fold, compared with normal pooled plasma. Exudative pleural effusions are characterized by increased procoagulant and depressed fibrinolytic activity, favoring fibrin deposition in the pleural space. The balance of these activities is reversed and favors fibrin clearance in congestive heart failure. 
Antierythrocyte autoantibody formation after therapy with interleukin-2 and gamma-interferon. The cardiovascular, renal, pulmonary, and dermatologic toxicities of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and gamma-interferon (IFN) are well described. However, autoimmune toxicities have only recently been noticed. The authors report the development of warm autoantibodies against erythrocytes in a patient receiving IL-2 (3.75 x 10(6) cetus units/m2 intravenous bolus three times per week) and gamma-IFN (0.1 mg/m2 subcutaneously three times per week) for metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Other potential causes of autoantibody formation, such as drugs, infection, and collagen vascular disease, were excluded. Both gamma-IFN and IL-2 have the potential to trigger or exacerbate autoimmunity due to either aberrant expression of restricted antigens or inhibition of normal cellular immune suppressor mechanisms. 
Endovascular treatment of intracerebral arteriovenous malformations: experience in 49 cases. The authors report the results of treatment in 49 consecutive patients with brain arteriovenous malformations (AVM's) who underwent therapeutic embolization with liquid adhesive agents between 1984 and 1988 at the Toronto Western Hospital. Thirty-three patients had no other treatment and were followed up with angiography at 2 years and clinically from 2 to 6 years. Of the other 16 patients, 10 had adjunctive radiosurgery and six underwent surgical resection following embolization. Seven (14%) of the 49 patients had a morphological cure effected by embolization as evidenced on their 2-year follow-up angiograms: these have remained clinically stable. Twelve patients developed neurological deficits after embolization; eight (16% of the series) were transient and four (8%) were permanent. Two patients (4%) had a delayed hemorrhage after incomplete obliteration of their malformations. Endovascular treatment resulted in clinical improvement in 15 (33%) of the other 46 patients. None of the patients who initially presented with hemorrhage had a rebleed following embolization. It is concluded that endovascular treatment with liquid embolic material can be an integral part of the multidisciplinary treatment protocol for patients with brain AVM's. 
The surgical pathology of gastrointestinal Hodgkin's disease. The files of the National Cancer Institute were searched for all surgical specimens from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract with the diagnosis of Hodgkin's disease (HD) that were accessioned during the years 1953-1990; six patients with a histologically reconfirmed diagnosis were identified. Of these patients, four presented with GI HD and two had recurrent HD. Primary HD appeared in the stomach (three patients) and the duodenum (one patient); recurrent HD after diagnosis in a conventional nodal site appeared in the stomach (one patient) and the colon (one patient). One of the cases of primary gastric disease was a composite lymphoma consisting of HD and diffuse large cell lymphoma. In view of the rarity of GI tract involvement by HD, a diagnosis of primary GI HD should be viewed with skepticism; support for such a diagnosis may be provided by both classic histopathologic features of HD and immunostaining, but no single feature can be regarded as pathognomonic. 
Elevated thymidine phosphorylase activity in psoriatic lesions accounts for the apparent presence of an epidermal "growth inhibitor," but is not in itself growth inhibitory. An apparent tissue-specific growth inhibitor, or chalone, obtained from psoriatic lesions was tentatively identified in the 100-kDa fraction based upon inhibition of DNA synthesis, as measured by [3H]-thymidine uptake by a squamous cell carcinoma cell line, SCC 38. This fraction, however, failed to inhibit SCC 38 cell growth when assessed directly in a neutral red uptake assay. Characterization of the inhibitor of [3H]-thymidine uptake revealed it to have biochemical properties identical to thymidine phosphorylase: 1) molecular weight close to 100 kDa, 2) isoelectric point of 4.2, and 3) thymidine phosphorylase enzyme activity. Thus, we conclude that its ability to inhibit [3H]-thymidine uptake was due to thymidine catabolism rather than inhibition of DNA synthesis or growth inhibition. Examination of thymidine phosphorylase activity in keratome biopsies from psoriatic and normal skin demonstrated a twentyfold increase in activity in psoriatic lesions relative to non-lesional or normal skin. This increase in metabolism of thymidine was due to thymidine phosphorylase rather than uridine phosphorylase activity. The correlation between increased thymidine phosphorylase activity and increased keratinocyte proliferation in vitro (cultured) and in vivo (psoriasis), suggests that this enzyme may play a critical role in providing the thymidine necessary for keratinocyte proliferation. 
Idiopathic trigeminal pain associated with gustatory stimuli. We present a unique case of a patient with facial pain evoked by gustatory stimuli. Pain was typically evoked by application of sucrose to the ipsilateral anterior 2/3 of the tongue, but not to the contralateral aspect. Pain was referred to the maxillary tuberosity area and, when stronger, to the infraorbital and supraorbital regions. Sucrose was most effective in eliciting pain, whilst saline, citric acid and water had a minimal effect. Spatial or temporal summation of gustatory stimuli was associated with stronger pain of longer duration and shorter latency. Some of the pain characteristics were similar to those of idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia. Thus, pain was elicited by innocuous ipsilateral stimuli, referred out of the stimulus zone, persisted beyond the period of stimulation and could be controlled with carbamazepine. We proposed a central neural mechanism for pain induction with convergence between gustatory stimuli afferents and pain pathways in the trigeminal system. 
Blood platelet count and function are related to total and cardiovascular death in apparently healthy men BACKGROUND. Experimental animal and clinical studies indicate that blood platelets have an important role in atherosclerosis and formation of thrombi. Prospective studies presenting evidence of an association between blood platelet count and cardiovascular mortality have not been performed. METHODS AND RESULTS. From 1973 to 1975, blood platelets were counted, and their responsiveness to aggregating agents was studied in healthy middle-aged men. The aim was to assess the possible association between these variables and coronary heart disease. At 13.5 years of follow up, a significantly higher coronary heart disease mortality was observed among the 25% of subjects with the highest platelet counts. Platelet aggregation performed in a random subsample (150 of the 487 men), moreover, revealed that the 50% with the most rapid aggregation response after ADP stimulation had significantly increased coronary heart disease mortality compared with the others. These associations could not be explained by differences in age, lipids, blood pressure, or smoking habits. CONCLUSIONS. The present study is the first to present conclusive, prospective evidence of an association between platelet concentration and aggregability and long-term incidence of fatal coronary heart disease in a population of apparently healthy middle-aged men. 
Diagnostic utility of ventilation/perfusion lung scans in acute pulmonary embolism is not diminished by pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of prior cardiac or pulmonary disease upon the utility of ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scans in the diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism (PE). Ventilation/perfusion scans were evaluated among 365 patients with no prior cardiac or pulmonary disease and compared to V/Q scans in 526 patients with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease. Among patients with no prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, PE was present in 117 and PE was excluded in 248. Among patients with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, PE was present in 140 and excluded in 386. The positive predictive value for PE of high probability V/Q scans among patients with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 55 of 66 (83 percent), was not significantly lower than among patients without prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 50 of 54 (93 percent) (NS). The positive predictive value of low probability V/Q scans was similar with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 25 of 182 (14 percent), and without prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, 17 of 113 (15 percent) (NS), as was the predictive value of near normal/normal V/Q scans, 2 of 51 (4 percent), vs 3 of 79 (4 percent) (NS). The sensitivity of high probability V/Q scans, with pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease and without, 55 of 140 (39 percent) vs 50 of 117 (43 percent), did not differ significantly. The specificity of high probability V/Q scans with prior cardiac or pulmonary disease and without, 375 of 386 (97 percent) vs 244 of 248 (98 percent) was also similar (NS). In conclusion, the diagnostic utility of V/Q scans for acute PE was not impaired by the presence of pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. Fewer patients, however, with no prior cardiac or pulmonary disease, had intermediate (indeterminate) V/Q scans. 
Interaction of chemical and mechanical respiratory stimuli in the arousal response to hypoxia in sleeping dogs. The role of respiratory mechanoreceptor stimuli in the arousal response to hypoxia was studied in three trained dogs. The dogs breathed through a cuffed endotracheal tube inserted through a chronic tracheostomy, and resistive loads of 8 to 49 cm H2O/L/s were added to the expiratory circuit. Arterial O2 saturation (SaO2) was measured with an ear oximeter, and isocapnic progressive hypoxia was induced by a rebreathing technique. Arousal from sleep was determined by electroencephalographic and behavioral criteria. SaO2 at arousal from non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep increased progressively from 67.5 +/- 4.6% (mean +/- SEM), with no added resistance to 85.2 +/- 0.5% with the highest resistance (p less than 0.01), and from 60.6 +/- 0.6 to 81.6 +/- 0.4% during REM sleep (p less than 0.01). The added resistances also increased the steady-state (normoxic) level of alveolar PCO2 (PACO2). However, when PACO2 was increased to comparable levels by the addition of dead space rather than expiratory resistance to the breathing circuit, SaO2 at arousal from hypoxia was significantly lower than during expiratory resistive loading (p less than 0.05). We therefore conclude that mechanoreceptor stimuli arising from the ventilatory apparatus may contribute substantially to the arousal response to hypoxia. 
Response of obstructive sleep apnea to fluoxetine and protriptyline. Protripyline is the pharmacologic agent most commonly used to treat obstructive sleep apnea (OSA); however, its anticholinergic side effects make it intolerable to many patients. Because serotonin may be a central respiratory stimulant and because the serotonin-uptake inhibitor, fluoxetine, is usually well tolerated, we wanted to try fluoxetine in the treatment of OSA. Therefore, we compared the effect of fluoxetine to that of protriptyline in 12 patients with OSA. Both drugs significantly decreased the proportion of REM sleep time and decreased the number of apneas or hypopneas in NREM sleep. The response to fluoxetine was equivalent to that of protriptyline; however, for the group as a whole, there was no significant improvement in the number of arterial oxygen desaturation events, the level of arterial oxygen desaturation, or the number of arousals with either agent. Although there was wide variability in the response to each medication, six of the 12 patients had good responses, including improvement in oxygenation, to either fluoxetine or protriptyline. Three patients could not complete the trial of protriptyline. We conclude that fluoxetine is beneficial to some, but not all, patients with OSA. Fluoxetine was better tolerated than protriptyline. 
Punctal occlusion and blepharoplasty in patients with dry eye syndrome. Blepharoplasty and inferior punctal occlusion were performed on 24 consecutive patients with dry eye syndrome. Fifteen patients (62.5%) had symptomatic dry eye syndrome preoperatively and nine patients (37.5%) had asymptomatic dry eye syndrome diagnosed during the preoperative workup (subclinical dry eye syndrome). After surgery, nine patients (37.5%) had improvement of their dry eye syndrome, 10 patients (42%) were unchanged, and two patients (8%) had worsening of their dry eye syndrome. A third patient had worsening of the dry eye syndrome 6 months postoperatively when her puncta reopened. Two patients (8%) had increased irritation only when wearing contact lenses, but in one patient this resolved 6 months after surgery. Thus, although a significant number are improved, a few patients will have worsening of dry eye syndrome after blepharoplasty and inferior punctal occlusion. 
Serum iron and neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a fulminant, life-threatening reaction to neuroleptic medications. The only consistently described biochemical abnormalities are increased creatine kinase and leucocytosis. Because of a possible association between NMS and dopaminergic function and between serum iron and dopaminergic function, we prospectively measured serum iron in 26 episodes of NMS in twenty-three patients. In 25 episodes (96%) serum iron concentration was 10 mumol/l or lower--more than 2 SD below the mean normal value. Serum iron in 11 episodes (36%) was 4 mumol/l or lower. In each episode for which data are available, serum iron returned to normal upon resolution of the NMS. Serum iron may be a helpful adjunct for the diagnosis of the disorder. The pronounced reduction in serum iron suggests that the acute phase reaction may have a role in NMS. 
Who benefits from a pediatric home care program? Earlier reports of a randomized controlled trial of the Pediatric Home Care (PHC) program for children with chronic physical illness demonstrated overall benefits for the group enrolled in the PHC program. This paper examines which subgroups benefited most (relative to control subjects) and which benefited least from the PHC intervention. Prior to the randomized controlled trial, PHC served those with the most burdensome medical conditions from the families with the fewest coping resources. However, data from the randomized controlled trial (N = 219) show that these were not the subjects who benefited most. Maximal benefit was evident when illness burden was small, but coping resources were low (social, educational, financial, and personal). Analyses of covariance show that subjects in PHC with both low burden and low resources had consistently better outcomes than similar subjects in Standard Care. When the illness burden was similarly low, but resources were more abundant, those in Standard Care appear to have had better outcomes than those in PHC. For those whose illness burden was more severe, the results were mixed. These findings suggest that the conventional priority of allocating existing intervention resources to the medically most burdensome cases may not always be maximally beneficial. Those with less burdensome conditions may derive greater benefit relative to control subjects from an intervention than those with extreme needs. Both medical and social factors should enter into the decision regarding the allocation of scarce resources. 
A rare complication of mitral valve replacement. Intraoperative fracture of the right fibrous trigone following a superior approach to the left atrium. Case report. A rare complication of mitral valve replacement is reported. Following a superior approach, through the roof of the left atrium the mitral valve was replaced with a Bjork-Shiley prosthesis in a 52-year-old female, who had undergone previous closed commissurotomy. Fracture of the right fibrous trigone occurred at surgery, following the completion of mitral valve replacement. The lesion was successfully repaired on cardiopulmonary bypass under cardioplegic arrest, placing sutures, after an oblique aortotomy, from below the noncoronary aortic cusp. The postoperative course was uneventful, without occurrence of a-v block. We believe that a superior approach to the left atrium may be a valid alternative for mitral valve surgery in some selected cases. 
Comparison of morphine and methadone for prevention of postoperative pain in 3- to 7-year-old children. A randomized, double-blind, prospective study was performed to determine the effects of perioperative administration of morphine or methadone on postoperative analgesic requirements and pain scores in 35 children aged 3 to 7 years undergoing major surgery. After a standardized induction of anesthesia, methadone or morphine, 0.2 mg/kg, was blindly administered, and supplemental doses were titrated to achieve comfort in the recovery room. Pain was assessed during the next 36 hours with a combination of validated behavioral and self-report measures. Patients in the methadone group required fewer supplemental opioid analgesic drugs during the next 36 hours, and reported lower pain scores. No patient had prolonged emergence from anesthesia, and no patient required naloxone or postoperative ventilatory assistance. No major adverse events occurred. We conclude that perioperative intravenous administration of methadone is an effective, inexpensive, and technologically simple means for providing prolonged analgesia for children after surgery. 
Self-expandable stainless steel endoprostheses for treatment of malignant bile duct obstruction. The Wallstent biliary endoprosthesis is a mesh of stainless steel that is delivered percutaneously over a 7-French catheter but expands to achieve a 1-cm lumen when released across a bile-duct stricture. The small transhepatic track required makes insertion easier, less painful, and probably safer when compared with plastic stents, and the large internal lumen reduces the rate of occlusion by encrusted bile. Wallstent endoprostheses were inserted under local anesthesia in 41 consecutive patients with malignant obstructive jaundice. Biliary drainage was considered the treatment of choice in all of these patients. The diagnosis was based on biopsy results in 32 patients and on radiologic appearances in nine. The patients were followed up in outpatient clinics for 16 months and had repeated radiologic examinations only if they had symptoms suggesting stent occlusion. No cases of hemobilia due to damaged hepatic vessels occurred. Two patients had septicemia treated with antibiotics. Three patients had recurrent jaundice due to growth of tumor below or above the stents. Endoprosthesis migration was not seen. No cases of stent occlusion due to encrustation of bile occurred. The median survival of patients was 105 days (range, 10-545 days). Our experience shows that Wallstent endoprostheses can be inserted with little discomfort for the patient and with relatively few complications. They provide good palliation in patients with malignant obstructive jaundice. 
Distribution patterns of type VII collagen in normal and malignant human tissues. The distribution of basement membrane type VII collagen was detected immunohistochemically and compared in normal human organs and their neoplastic derivatives using monoclonal antibody LH7.2. In normal tissues, type VII collagen was found to be restricted to the basement membrane surrounding or underlying combined epithelia, such as those lining breast, prostate, and bronchus, which are composed of a basal and luminal cell layer, and stratified epithelia, such as larynx, esophagus, trachea, vagina, ectocervix, and epidermis. No type VII collagen was found in the "simple' epithelia lining the major part of the gastrointestinal tract (GI) tract, such as liver, stomach, and intestine, or around blood vessels, muscle, and nerve fibers, which are surrounded, however, by a basement membrane containing type IV collagen and laminin. When tested in benign and malignant local tumors, antibody LH7.2 showed staining patterns partly similar to those observed in the corresponding normal tissues. This resulted in a well-circumscribed positive reaction around ducts in carcinomas in situ of the breast, in benign prostate tumors, in pleomorphic adenomas, and in a negative reaction in tumors of the GI tract. Furthermore type VII collagen was predominantly seen in carcinomas with a squamous differentiation, such as squamous carcinomas of the lung, head and neck, vulva, and vagina. These results indicate that the presence of type VII collagen in malignant tumors is correlated with (squamous) differentiation rather than with the origin of the tumor. With tumor progression, an increased presence of type VII collagen, as compared with normal urinary bladder, was found in infiltrating transitional cell carcinomas. Thus, although in general invasive and metastatic tumors do not express extensively type VII collagen, exceptions to this rule exist in bladder cancer, squamous carcinomas of the lung, tumors of the head and neck region, female genital tract tumors, and in some adenocarcinomas of the breast. 
Left ventricular shape as a determinant of functional mitral regurgitation in patients with severe heart failure secondary to either coronary artery disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The relation between left ventricular (LV) shape and functional mitral regurgitation (MR) was evaluated in 39 patients with congestive heart failure. Heart failure was due to coronary artery disease in 23 patients (group I) and to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in 16 (group II). LV shape was quantitated based on the ratio of LV major-to-minor axis and LV sphericity index calculated at end-systole and end-diastole. In group I, 9 patients had angiographic evidence of MR and 14 did not. In group II, 10 patients had MR and 6 did not. Within each group, there were no differences between patients with and without MR with regard to LV chamber volume and regional segmental wall motion abnormalities. In both groups, however, a significant difference was observed between patients with and without MR with respect to end-systolic and end-diastolic LV shape indexes. In group I, the end-systolic major-to-minor axis ratio was lower in patients with (1.42 +/- 0.04) than without (1.72 +/- 0.05) MR (p less than 0.001). Similar differences were observed in group II (1.41 +/- 0.06 vs 1.69 +/- 0.04) (p less than 0.01). In group I, the end-systolic sphericity index was also greater in patients with (0.32 +/- 0.02) than without (0.25 +/- 0.01) MR (p less than 0.02). Similar differences were observed in group II (0.37 +/- 0.03 vs 0.26 +/- 0.01) (p less than 0.02). These data indicate that in patients with severe heart failure, functional MR is present in those who manifest a more spherical LV cavity. 
IFN-gamma differentially modulates the susceptibility of L1210 and P815 tumor targets for macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity. Role of macrophage-target interaction coupled to nitric oxide generation, but independent of tumor necrosis factor production. IFN-gamma primes murine macrophages to render them responsive for triggering by subactivating concentrations of bacterial LPS to mediate nonspecific tumor cytotoxicity. However, IFN-gamma also has direct anti-proliferative effects on transformed cells that serve as sensitive tumor targets for cytotoxic macrophages. We investigated the effects of preexposure of L1210 mouse leukemia and P815 mouse mastocytoma targets to rIFN-gamma on changes in their susceptibility to cytotoxicity by LPS-activated mouse peritoneal macrophages (PM). Co-incubation of inflammatory PM and either L1210 or P815 targets with IFN-gamma and LPS produced a classical synergistic cytotoxicity for both targets over that of IFN-gamma or LPS alone. Similar synergistic augmentation of cytotoxicity occurred when effector PM were preprimed for 24 h with IFN-gamma before testing for cytotoxicity of untreated targets. However, pretreatment of L1210 and P815 targets for 24 h with IFN-gamma (50 U) before assay produced divergent results in that L1210 was more susceptible, whereas P815 was less susceptible to cytotoxicity by LPS-activated macrophages. Similar results were obtained when both macrophages and targets were pretreated separately with IFN-gamma for 24 h before their combined assay for tumor cytotoxicity. Pretreatment of L1210 targets for 1, 4, or 24 h with IFN-gamma produced similar effects on their increased susceptibility to macrophage cytotoxicity. In contrast, P815 pretreated for 1 and 4 h with IFN-gamma showed an early increased susceptibility to macrophage cytotoxicity followed by a decrease after 24 h pretreatment. The pretreatment of L1210 or P815 targets with IFN-gamma before their exposure to LPS-activated macrophages had no effect on the production of TNF. However, there was a corresponding increase in nitric oxide generation by LPS-activated macrophages after their exposure to IFN-gamma pretreated L1210 targets and a decrease in the presence of IFN-gamma-pretreated P815 targets that correlated with their changes in susceptibility to macrophage killing. Nitric oxide generation by macrophages alone in response to LPS was found to be greater than when effector macrophages were exposed to the tumor targets and this was either increased by L1210 or decreased by P815 that had been pretreated with IFN-gamma. Our results indicate that IFN-gamma may act directly and differentially on tumor targets to alter their susceptibility for macrophage cytotoxicity, which was coupled to changes in the generation of cytotoxic nitric oxide, rather than TNF production by the macrophage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Chemical meningism after lumbar facet joint block with local anaesthetic and steroids. A case is reported in which chemical meningism occurred after lumbar facet joint block with methylprednisolone acetate and bupivacaine. This complication was probably due to inadvertent dural puncture. The use of steroids in facet joint injections is questioned. 
Clinical characteristics of nonfatal myocardial infarction among individuals on prophylactic low-dose aspirin therapy. BACKGROUND. The influence of prophylactic low-dose aspirin on the clinical characteristics of subsequent nonfatal myocardial infarction was examined in the Physicians' Health Study, a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial of alternate-day aspirin (325 mg) among 22,071 US male physicians. METHODS AND RESULTS. During 60.2 months of follow-up, 342 incident cases of nonfatal myocardial infarction were confirmed (95.2% of all reports): 129 on aspirin and 213 on placebo (p less than 0.00001). Despite this statistically extreme reduction in occurrence of a first nonfatal infarction attributable to aspirin, there were no significant differences in the size, location, electrocardiographic features, or postinfarction left ventricular ejection fraction between the aspirin and placebo groups. Furthermore, among those undergoing angiography, there were no differences in the distribution or number of coronary vessels obstructed. CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that chronic platelet inhibition with alternate-day aspirin therapy reduces the risk of a first myocardial infarction but does not appear to have a significant effect on the clinical characteristics of events that are survived. This finding may result from a direct effect of aspirin or from an aspirin-induced shift in infarction severity. Regardless of mechanism, these clinical observations suggest that treatment decisions for acute infarction patients should be made independently of a history of aspirin use. 
Basic hearing tests. This article contains a discussion of pure-tone and speech audiometry as these measures relate to primary audiologic evaluation of hearing. The scientific foundation underlying the development of stimulus-specific standards for normal hearing, test materials, and methods for basic tests are included. A rationale for test administration, masking, and interpretation of results is presented. 
Sarcoidosis presenting as an isolated intramedullary tumor. We report a case of isolated intramedullary sarcoidosis. The patient developed progressive signs that indicated a spinal tumor, which were investigated with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans. Magnetic resonance imaging clearly revealed an intramedullary lesion, but the diagnosis of sarcoidosis was made on the pathological analysis of the surgical specimen. Magnetic resonance imaging with contrast enhancement is reported in a histologically proven case of intramedullary sarcoidosis. Only 12 other cases of isolated intramedullary sarcoidosis have been reported. We review and discuss these cases according to their clinical presentation, the segmental location of the granulomas in the spinal cord, preoperative and operative diagnoses, and signs for systemic sarcoidosis. In none of the cases was the diagnosis of intramedullary sarcoidosis made before surgery. We think that surgical therapy for intramedullary lesions is the best way to diagnose rare instances of benign lesions like sarcoidosis and to treat them in an appropriate manner. 
Ophthalmologic aspects of headache. Pain around the eye can be caused by local ophthalmic disorders or by disease of other structures sharing trigeminal nerve sensory innervation. In general, most ocular causes for pain also cause the eye to be red, thus alerting the examiner to the focality of the problem. However, conditions like eyestrain, intermittent angleclosure glaucoma or neovascular glaucoma, and low-grade intraocular inflammation can be painful and not be associated with obvious redness. Ocular signs and symptoms also occur with numerous other causes of headache. Double vision in association with periocular pain can result from orbital lesions, isolated cranial neuropathies, and cavernous sinus lesions. Pupillary abnormalities like Horner's syndrome may result from a variety of painful conditions, including cluster headache, parasellar neoplasms or aneurysms, internal carotid dissection or occlusion, and Tolosa-Hunt syndrome. Pain with a dilated and unreactive pupil may reflect a benign condition like Adie's syndrome or ophthalmoplegic migraine, or it may herald the presence of a life-threatening posterior communicating artery aneurysm. Headache and transient visual loss can be manifestations of classic migraine, or be symptoms of ocular hypoperfusion from ipsilateral internal carotid occlusion or increased intracranial pressure from pseudotumor cerebri. In a young patient, head pain with a fixed visual deficit may result from optic neuritis, in an older adult, temporal arteritis may be the culprit. Ophthalmologic aspects of headache thus encompass problems that range from simple and benign to complex and formidable. 
Successful management of an adult lightning victim using intracranial pressure monitoring. Serious central nervous system injuries after lightning strikes are fortunately rare. Optimal neurological and neurosurgical management has not been firmly established. We describe the successful neurological resuscitation and critical care management using intracranial pressure monitoring of an adult who sustained a lightning strike. The role of intracranial pressure monitoring in this setting is discussed. 
Safe and rapid palliation of dysphagia for carcinoma of the esophagus. Patients with carcinoma of the esophagus continue to present late when their tumors are inoperable. This makes palliation of their dysphagia the main therapeutic aim. The Nd-YAG laser has been used in our department to treat dysphagia resulting from cancer of the esophagus since 1986. Our rapid, one-stage cannulation technique using the Nd-YAG laser in both contact and noncontact modes was applied to 35 cases of carcinoma of the esophagus with the aim of achieving rapid and safe palliation of dysphagia. During the treatment we aimed not to coagulate the tumor and await sloughing, but to vaporize the tumor and ablate as much as possible in a single session. In this way there was less need for repeat sessions to create an adequate lumen. In a small number of patients (9) who had tight strictures with no visible lumen, a pre-laser dilation was required to allow visualization of the lumen and tumor vaporization. For nondilated patients (26) we achieved a 15-mm lumen in an average of 1.6 sessions, and in the dilated patients (9) this was achieved in one session in all patients. Functional improvement occurred in 28 patients (80%). There were four minor complications and no mortality associated with the procedure. 
Correlations between fibrinolytic function and acute myocardial infarction. The diurnal variation of tissue plasminogen activator and plasminogen activator inhibitor--2 important factors in regulation of fibrinolysis--is well established, but its clinical implications are not yet fully understood. Fibrinolytic function was measured in a group of 133 patients less than 45 years of age, 3 months after they presented with myocardial infarction, and they were compared with an equal group of carefully matched control subjects. A sub-sample of 71 patients and 50 control subjects was examined 3 years later. Tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor plasma levels were higher in patients versus control subjects at 3 months and at 3 years after myocardial infarction, with a high degree of correlation between the 2 determinations (r = 0.87). Of all hemostatic parameters studied, only low tissue plasminogen activator activity and increased tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor levels were significantly different between patients with and without recurrent infarction during the 3-year period. In those patients with a second infarction greater than 3 years later, however, tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor concentration was not significantly related to reinfarction. 
Retinoblastoma in older children. A review of 400 consecutive patients with retinoblastoma who presented to the Ocular Oncology Service at Wills Eye Hospital showed that 34 (8.5%) patients were older than 5 years of age at the time of initial diagnosis. The tumor was active in 26 (76%) cases and inactive (retinoma) in 8 (24%). An evaluation of the 26 patients with active retinoblastoma showed several unique features. At the time of diagnosis, their median age was 6 years and the oldest was 18 years. In 20 (77%) cases, the patient volunteered symptoms that prompted the eye examination; the presenting symptoms included leukocoria (9 cases), decreased vision (9 cases), strabismus (4 cases), pain (1 case), floaters (1 case), and no symptoms (2 cases). All of the 26 patients (100%) had unilateral sporadic retinoblastoma. Misdiagnosis before referral was common in these older children with active retinoblastoma. Five patients (19%) had prior vitrectomy for presumed vitreous hemorrhage or endophthalmitis while the retinoblastoma was unsuspected clinically, one patient (4%) had cryotherapy for presumed Coats disease, and one (4%) was observed for 7 months for presumed vitreous hemorrhage. The clinician should seriously consider the possibility of retinoblastoma in children who present with signs of unexplained vitreous hemorrhage or endophthalmitis, even if they are older than 5 years of age. 
Astrovirus and adenovirus associated with diarrhea in children in day care settings. The relative importance of astrovirus and adenoviruses as etiologic agents of diarrhea among children in day care was examined. Stool specimens from this prospective study were screened for both astrovirus and adenovirus hexon with two new indirect double-antibody assays and for enteric adenoviruses with an EIA specific for serotypes 40 and 41. Astrovirus was detected in a significantly greater percentage of children with diarrhea (4%, 21/524) than of those without (less than 1%, 1/138) (P less than .05); however, no difference between such such children with adenovirus infections was found (8%, 43/565, and 8%, 10/129, respectively). Overall, 30% (13/43) of all adenovirus hexon-positive specimens were enteric serotypes, and by extrapolation, enteric adenoviruses were identified in an equal percentage of children (2%) with and without diarrhea. This study documents the presence of astrovirus and enteric adenoviruses among children in day care in the United States, associates astrovirus with diarrhea in this setting, and suggests that viral agents may be the most common enteric pathogens among children with diarrhea in day care. 
A controlled trial of interferon gamma to prevent infection in chronic granulomatous disease. The International Chronic Granulomatous Disease Cooperative Study Group. BACKGROUND. Chronic granulomatous disease is an uncommon inherited disorder of phagocytes in which defective production of the reactive intermediates of oxygen predisposes patients to recurrent and severe pyogenic infections. Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies indicates that interferon gamma can partially correct the metabolic defect in phagocytes. We assessed the efficacy of interferon gamma in decreasing the frequency of serious infections in patients with this disease. METHODS. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 128 patients with chronic granulomatous disease (median age, 15 years). Patients received interferon gamma (50 micrograms per square meter of body-surface area) or placebo subcutaneously, three times a week for up to a year. The primary end point of the study was the time to the first serious infection, defined as an event requiring hospitalization and parenteral antibiotics. Measures of phagocyte function were also monitored. RESULTS. In terms of the time to the first serious infection, there was a clear benefit from interferon as compared with placebo (P = 0.0006). Of the 63 patients assigned to interferon, 14 had serious infections, as compared with 30 of the 65 patients assigned to placebo (P = 0.002). There was also a reduction in the total number of serious infections--20 with interferon as compared with 56 with placebo (P less than 0.0001). Interferon was beneficial regardless of age, the use or nonuse of prophylactic antibiotics, and the mode of inheritance (X-linked or autosomal recessive). However, there were no significant changes in the measures of superoxide production by phagocytes. Interferon therapy was well tolerated, and there was no evidence of serious toxicity. CONCLUSIONS. For patients with chronic granulomatous disease, interferon gamma therapy is an effective and well-tolerated treatment that reduces the frequency of serious infections. 
Primary spinal epidural extraosseous Ewing's sarcoma. The case of a 7-year-old boy with a spinal epidural extraosseous Ewing's sarcoma (EES) is presented. He is in complete remission without neurologic deficit 40 months after diagnosis. Another 15 cases were found in the literature and are discussed together with this patient. Twelve of them were male patients. The mean age of the patients was 17.5 years (range, 4 to 47). Symptoms included back pain and/or radicular pain (100%), paresis of one or both legs (83%), sensory disturbances, and bladder and bowel dysfunction. The mean diagnostic delay was 5.8 months. Each patient underwent laminectomy; complete resection of the tumor was impossible in more than 50% of the cases. Most patients received radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy. Four patients suffered from local recurrence, eight from metastases. Ten (63%) patients died, 1 to 48 months (mean, 16) after diagnosis. The differential diagnosis is discussed, including disk herniation and several benign and malignant tumors. 
Quantifying the spread of botulinum toxin through muscle fascia. Botulinum toxin was recently approved for treating several head and neck dystonias. Paralysis of neighboring muscles is the major complication of its use. Spread of toxin from the injected muscle has been suggested as an etiology. This study examines how botulinum toxin crosses muscle fascia by a novel method of quantifying muscular paralysis. Botulinum toxin (0.2 to 10 U) was placed onto the fascia of rat tibialis anterior (TA) muscles (n = 6). Toxin was also placed on dose-matched muscles that had their fascia surgically removed (n = 6). Twenty-four hours later, the nerve to the tibialis anterior was electrically stimulated to deplete the muscle fibers of glycogen. Toxin-paralyzed fibers retained their glycogen and appeared purple on periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain. Botulinum toxin easily passed through muscle fascia even at subclinical doses. The presence of fascia reduced the spread of botulinum toxin by 23%. These results suggest that spread of botulinum toxin can be prevented only by delivering small doses to the center of a target muscle. 
Dry beriberi: unusual complication of prolonged parenteral nutrition. An adult with Crohn's disease on home total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for 8 months presented with peripheral neuropathy and ataxia. The patient was found to be deficient of thiamine. A prompt symptomatic response to intravenous thiamine suggests that the patient had the chronic form of dry beriberi. To our knowledge, this variety of beriberi in a patient on TPN has not previously been reported. 
Neurosurgical complications after intranasal ethmoidectomy. Intranasal ethmoidectomy is a common otolaryngological procedure. Despite the potential for serious intracranial complications, there is a paucity of reports describing the neurosurgical complications of the procedure. Two patients with intracranial complications of intranasal ethmoidectomy, and the relevant medical literature, are reviewed. The anatomy of the ethmoid air cells and their relation to the intracranial cavity are described. The importance of definitive, emergent repair with attention to the potential for vascular injury is discussed. 
Phase I trial of tissue plasminogen activator for the prevention of vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Recent laboratory studies have demonstrated that intracisternal administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) can facilitate the normal clearing of blood from the subarachnoid space and prevent or ameliorate delayed arterial spasm. The results of a preliminary Phase I trial of intracisternal rt-PA in 10 patients are reported with documented aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). All patients enrolled were classified as clinical Grade III or IV (according to Hunt and Hess) with thick clots or layers of blood in the basal cisterns and major cerebral fissures (Fisher Grade 3). Ventriculostomy and surgery for clipping of the aneurysms were performed within 48 hours of hemorrhage. In one patient, 10 mg rt-PA was instilled into the subarachnoid cisterns prior to closing the dura. In the remaining nine patients, a small silicone catheter was left in the subarachnoid space and rt-PA (5 mg in four cases or 1.5 mg (0.5 mg every 8 hours for three infusions) in five cases) was instilled 12 to 24 hours after surgery. Minor local bleeding complications were noted in all patients receiving 5 or 10 mg rt-PA. Oozing was noted at the operative incision site in four of five patients and at the ventriculostomy site in two patients. One patient developed a small epidural hematoma that was treated by delayed drainage. No bleeding complications were noted in the patients receiving the lower regimen of rt-PA (three infusions of 0.5 mg each). Serial coagulation studies demonstrated no evidence of systemic fibrinolysis. Analysis of cisternal cerebrospinal fluid samples revealed thrombolytic tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) levels for 24 to 48 hours. Follow-up cerebral angiography 7 to 8 days after rupture disclosed mild to moderate spasm in nine patients, while one patient with hemorrhage from a posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm had severe focal spasm of the vertebral arteries that was not symptomatic. These results suggest that postoperative treatment with rt-PA may be effective in reducing the severity of delayed cerebral vasospasm. The results of serial t-PA levels suggest that the lower dosage regimen with divided dosages at 8-hour intervals is well tolerated and that even lower dosages may be effective. Further studies are clearly indicated. 
T1-T2 carcinoma of the glottis: relative hypofractionation. Radiation therapy, the preferred primary treatment for early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis, offers high local control rates with voice preservation; however, the optimal treatment schedule is subject to debate. Local control, with and without surgical salvage, and associated long-term effects and complications were retrospectively analyzed in 90 patients treated with definitive radiation therapy for T1-T2 squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis. Patients received three weekly fractions of 333 cGy to a total dose of 60 Gy in 6 weeks. Median follow-up was 51.5 months. With radiation therapy alone, local control was 92% for T1 disease and 88% for T2; with surgical salvage, the control rate was 99%. Long-term effects included moderate hoarseness (16% of patients) and moderate or severe laryngeal edema (10% of patients). In seven patients who underwent salvage surgery, the complication rate was 29%. Despite excellent local control, this regimen may produce more long-term effects and complications than conventional fractionation. 
Bleeding peptic ulcer after abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. A retrospective study of 112 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and 232 with arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO) demonstrated that 16.7% of those with AAA and 1.6% of those with ASO had a history of gastroduodenal ulcer; 83% of these lesions with AAA were gastric ulcers. Ulcer bleeding after vascular reconstruction developed in seven patients with AAA and one with ASO. Serum fibrinogen levels and platelet counts were significantly lower in patients with AAA than in those with ASO or controls. A prospective study showed that 25 (52.1%) of 48 patients with AAA and six (20.0%) of 30 patients with ASO had endoscopically proved gastroduodenal lesions before vascular reconstruction. None of them developed postoperative bleeding after treatment of both their gastroduodenal lesions and coagulopathy. Furthermore, the significant decrease in blood flow and prostaglandin content of gastric mucosa was demonstrated in patients with AAA. 
Retinochoroidal coloboma and subretinal neovascularization. Subretinal neovascularization associated with retinochoroidal coloboma is rare. To the authors' knowledge, only three cases have been reported. We report a new case of isolated subretinal neovascularization and coloboma in a 26-year-old woman without other causes of choroidal neovascularization. Only the disruption of the normal retinal anatomy could explain the development of this subretinal neovascularization. 
Inguinal hernia repair in early infancy. Controversy regarding the management of inguinal hernias in young infants stimulated this study. It was our hypothesis that inguinal hernia in young infants can and should be repaired at the time of presentation. In order to address this issue, the following questions were examined: How frequently are these hernias incarcerated and how should this be managed? What is the best timing of repair? Should the asymptomatic contralateral groin be explored? How do the recurrence and complication rates compare with those in older children? Have advances in anesthesia affected the treatment of these infants? The records of 384 infants less than 2 months of age who underwent inguinal herniorrhaphy from January 1985 to January 1990 at Children's Hospital and Medical Center in Seattle were reviewed. Nearly one fourth (24%) of the patients had incarcerated hernias. Preoperative reduction was successful 96% of the time. The hernia was then repaired within 48 hours. Six patients required urgent operation, but bowel resection was not necessary in any. Contralateral groin exploration was performed 96% of the time and was positive in 85%. The recurrence rate was 1.0%. Complications occurred in 2.3% of patients. There were no hernia-related deaths. Spinal anesthesia was used in 63 patients with no postoperative apnea. An aggressive approach toward prompt repair of hernias in this age group can result in a very low incidence of hernia-related complications. Repair can be carried out safely in the first 2 months of life with recurrence and complication rates comparable with those in older children. Spinal anesthesia may lower the rate of postoperative apnea. 
Cramp-fasciculation syndrome: a treatable hyperexcitable peripheral nerve disorder. We report nine patients with muscle aching, cramps, stiffness, exercise intolerance, and peripheral nerve hyperexcitability. Neurologic examination showed calf fasciculations in seven, quadriceps myokymia in two, and deltoid myokymia in one patient. Two patients had mild increase in serum creatine kinase. Muscle biopsy showed either no abnormality (three patients) or mild neurogenic changes (four patients). Fasciculations were the only abnormality on routine electrodiagnostic studies. Supramaximal stimulation of the median, ulnar, peroneal, and posterior tibial nerves at frequencies of 0.5, 1, 2, and 5 Hz produced showers of electrical potentials following the M response in at least one nerve. In three patients, the fasciculations and evoked electrical potentials were abolished by regional application of curare but not nerve block. Carbamazepine therapy caused moderate-to-marked reduction of symptoms and nerve hyperexcitability. We designate this hyperexcitable peripheral nerve disorder as the "cramp-fasciculation syndrome.". 
Radial nerve paralysis and tumor. This paper presents ten cases of radial nerve paralysis because of tumor and reviews 38 previously reported cases. The tumor distribution was 35 lipomas, four neurofibromas, four ganglions, three neuromas, one fibroma, and one neurilemoma. Malignant tumors are not discussed in this review. Electromyography is of value if diagnostic problems occur. Postoperative results are normally good. 
Diminished tolerance of prehypertrophic, cardiomyopathic Syrian hamster hearts to Ca2+ stresses. Although abnormal myocardial calcium homeostasis in the cardiomyopathic hamster (CMH) has been documented in the hypertrophic stage of the disease, the Ca2+ tolerance before the hypertrophic stage has not been investigated. We studied isovolumic contractile function in response to a variety of Ca2+ stresses including increases in perfusate [Ca2+] (Cao), the Ca2+ channel agonist Bay K 8644, and alpha- or beta-adrenergic agonists of isolated perfused hamster hearts from 24-45-day-old male CMH, BIO 14.6 strain, and age- and sex-matched F1B strain controls. The coronary flow at a constant perfusion pressure did not differ between two groups at baseline or after any Ca2+ stress. At a Cao of 1.0 mM, neither end-diastolic pressure (EDP) nor developed pressure (DP) nor half relaxation time (RT1/2) during stimulation at 1-3 Hz differed between the two groups; as Cao was increased up to 10 mM, CMH hearts showed a lower threshold for the occurrence of a Ca2+ overload profile: EDP and RT1/2 increased to a greater, and DP to a lesser, extent in CMH than in control hearts. To determine whether calcium influx via Ca2+ channels mediates the lower threshold for Ca2+ overload in CMH hearts, we measured resting pressure and scattered laser light intensity fluctuation (SLIF) in unstimulated hearts. Prior studies have shown that SLIF is generated by microscopic tissue motion caused by diastolic spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release and that SLIF amplitude reflects the extent of cell and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ loading. The Ca(2+)-dependent increase in resting pressure in unstimulated hearts was highly correlated with an increase in SLIF, and this relation was steeper in CMH than in control hearts. CMH hearts also showed a reduced threshold for the occurrence of a Ca2+ overload profile in response to the adrenergic receptor agonists and the Ca2+ channel agonist during electrical stimulation in a Cao of 2.0 mM: maximum DP achieved with each agonist was significantly less and the dose-response curves to each agonist were shifted leftward in CMH versus control hearts. In CMH hearts EDP began to increase at a significantly lower concentration of each agonist, and the maximum extent of increase in EDP in response to all agonists was significantly enhanced compared with control hearts. In response to beta-adrenergic or Ca2+ channel agonists, neither resting pressure nor SLIF in unstimulated hearts increased in control or in CMH hearts. In contrast, in response to alpha-adrenergic stimulation, both SLIF and resting pressure increased to a greater extent in CMH than in control hearts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Principal causes of mechanical bowel obstruction in surgically treated adults in western Turkey. A retrospective study of the principal causes of mechanical bowel obstruction occurring in Western Turkey between 1979 and 1989 was undertaken. The records of 14,777 operations performed in the general surgery departments of two hospitals were reviewed. Mechanical bowel obstruction occurred in 582 patients. Among the causes of mechanical bowel obstruction, adhesions were most common (44.0 per cent), followed by strangulated hernia (23.9 per cent), volvuli (12.7 per cent) and colonic carcinomas (10.1 per cent). A previous appendicectomy appeared to be the most important cause of adhesions causing mechanical bowel obstruction. 
An acquired interatrial fistula secondary to para-aortic abscess documented by transesophageal echocardiography. Para-aortic ring abscess and resulting fistulous communication between adjacent structures frequently occur in prosthetic aortic valve endocarditis but are rarely diagnosed preoperatively. We report a patient who had an abscess involving the aortic-mitral intervalvular fibrosa that eroded into the interatrial septum, causing an interatrial communication with a left-to-right shunt. The abscess was detected by transthoracic echocardiography, but the fistula was only seen by the subsequent transesophageal echocardiogram. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an interatrial fistula secondary to a para-aortic valve abscess and its diagnosis preoperatively. Transesophageal echocardiography should be performed in any patient suspected to have complicated aortic endocarditis. 
Imaging modalities for evaluation of the spine. The spine can be evaluated by a number of different imaging modalities. Although magnetic resonance imaging has assumed the dominant role in the diagnosis of spinal disease, the individual clinical situation still determines the procedure of choice. This review discusses the different imaging techniques and their currently accepted indications. 
POSSUM: a scoring system for surgical audit. POSSUM, a Physiological and Operative Severity Score for the enUmeration of Mortality and morbidity, is described. This system has been devised from both a retrospective and prospective analysis and the present paper attempts to validate it prospectively. Logistic regression analysis yielded statistically significant equations for both mortality and morbidity (P less than 0.001). When displayed graphically zones of increasing morbidity and mortality rates could be defined which could be of value in surgical audit. The scoring system produced assessments for morbidity and mortality rates which did not significantly differ from observed rates. 
Dextran-70 versus albumin as plasma expanders in cirrhotic patients with tense ascites treated with total paracentesis. Results of a randomized study To investigate whether albumin can be substituted by less expensive plasma expanders in cirrhotic patients with tense ascites treated with total paracentesis, 88 patients (16 with renal failure) submitted to this therapeutic procedure were randomly assigned to receive IV albumin (43 patients) or dextran-70. Both substances were given at a dose of 8 g/L of ascitic fluid removed. Patients were discharged from the hospital with diuretics, and cases developing tense ascites during follow-up were treated according to their initial schedule. Total paracentesis was effective in eliminating the ascites in all but two cases in each group. Neither paracentesis plus IV albumin infusion nor paracentesis plus IV dextran-70 infusion was associated with significant changes in renal and hepatic function or serum electrolytes. The incidence of renal impairment (one case in each group), hyponatremia (three and four cases, respectively), and other complications (hepatic encephalopathy, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, bacterial infections) after paracentesis, and the clinical course of the disease as estimated by the probability of readmission to hospital during follow-up, causes of readmission, probability of survival, and causes of death were similar in the two groups of patients. The effect of paracentesis on effective intravascular volume was indirectly assessed by measuring plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentration before and 2 and 6 days after treatment, the patients being without diuretics. In patients treated with albumin, no significant changes in renin and aldosterone were observed during the entire period of observation. In contrast, both parameters increased significantly on the 6th day of treatment in patients receiving dextran-70. A significant increase in plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentration (30% over baseline values) was observed in 51% of patients treated with dextran-70 and in only 15% of those treated with albumin (x2 = 10.4; P = 0.0012). These results indicate that although dextran-70 is less efficacious than albumin in protecting cirrhotic patients treated with total paracentesis from the decrease in effective intravascular volume, it appears to be capable of preventing the renal and electrolyte complications induced by this therapeutic procedure. 
Complications of percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump use in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump use may carry an increased risk for patients with peripheral vascular disease. To determine the incidence and types of associated complications, the medical records of 144 patients who underwent a total of 153 percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump insertions were reviewed. Patients were divided into two groups. Group 1 was composed of 20 patients with a history of peripheral vascular disease. Group 2 was composed of 124 patients without such history; they underwent a total of 133 insertions. Nineteen major complications (12%) occurred, 12 in group 1 (60% of 20 insertions) and seven in group 2 (5% of 133 insertions). Major complications were further classified by their nature: embolic, occlusive, and technical. All three types of complications occurred more frequently in group 1. Embolic complications occurred more frequently in patients with aneurysms and proved the most lethal, with two of six deaths in group 1 resulting from this complication. 
Health practice correlates in three adult age groups: results from two community surveys. Independently done surveys of a target population can make an important contribution to knowledge about the determinants of personal health behavior by highlighting variables that consistently emerge as significant predictors. This investigation examined the correlates of four health practice and knowledge indices related to cardiovascular disease (CVD) in two baseline community surveys of the Pawtucket Heart Health Program (N = 2,413; N = 2,808). An additional dimension was the use of three adult age groups (18-29, 30-49, 50-64) in conducting the analyses. Results of both surveys showed that sex was the strongest correlate of the four indices--knowledge of CVD, encouraging health practice changes in others, dietary intake, and exercise. The four indices related to CVD were also associated with years of education, primary language, and whether or not a recent cholesterol measurement had been obtained, although these relationships were not as consistent as the results for sex. Overall, about half of each survey's significant associations were also found in the other survey (survey 1, 30 of 62; survey 2, 30 of 56). Consistency of significant results between surveys was best for the group ages 30-49. In either survey, it was rare for an association between a predictor and behavioral index to appear in each of the three age groups. This study supports the importance of the subjects' sex in research on personal health practices, suggests the potential for independence even among health-related indices pertinent to a single type of illness, and emphasizes the usefulness of utilizing independent samples to identify important correlates of health behavior. 
Inhibition of proteolysis protects hippocampal neurons from ischemia. Intense proteolysis of cytoskeletal proteins occurs in brain within minutes of transient ischemia, possibly because of the activation of calcium-sensitive proteases (calpains). This proteolytic event precedes overt signs of neuronal degeneration, is most pronounced in regions of selective neuronal vulnerability, and could have significant consequences for the integrity of cellular function. The present studies demonstrate that (i) the early phase of enhanced proteolysis is a direct response to hypoxia rather than other actions of ischemia, (ii) it is possible to pharmacologically inhibit the in vivo proteolytic response to ischemia, (iii) inhibition of proteolysis is associated with a marked reduction in the extent of neuronal death, and (iv) protected neurons exhibit normal-appearing electrophysiological responses and retain their capacity for expressing long-term potentiation, a form of physiological plasticity thought to be involved in memory function. These observations indicate that calcium-activated proteolysis is an important component of the post-ischemic neurodegenerative response and that targeting this response may be a viable therapeutic strategy for preserving both the structure and function of vulnerable neurons. 
The natural history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. Highly uncommon or highly unrecognized? Among 2000 descendants of an English immigrant to Tasmania, Australia, the diagnosis of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 was found to be very highly probable or highly probable in 130 and moderately probable in 22. Another 242 children and siblings were 50% likely to have inherited this dominant gene. In all age groups, especially the elderly, the majority of affected members had symptoms of only one endocrine disorder or were asymptomatic. In teenagers, the most common presentation was pituitary lesions and the second most common presentation was insulinomas. Frequently, pituitary lesions or insulinomas developed before any parathyroid lesions could be detected. Elevation of gastrin levels, usually associated with hypercalcemia, was rarely seen in patients younger than 25 years. The classic presentation with symptoms of multiple endocrinopathy may represent only a small fraction of these patients in the community. 
Intraperitoneal hemorrhage from hepatocellular carcinoma: emergency chemoembolization or embolization. From 1982 to 1990, 38 patients with intraperitoneal hemorrhage from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) underwent treatment with emergency embolization with or without anticancer drug and iodized oil. Before emergency embolization, 24 patients had a serum total bilirubin value of 3.0 mg/dL or less (group A) and 14 patients had hyperbilirubinemia, with a serum bilirubin level greater than 3.0 mg/dL (group B). Successful hemostasis was achieved in all patients. The mean length of survival was 165 days in group A and 13 days in group B. A significant correlation (P less than .00003) between serum bilirubin level and prognosis was obtained. While tumor thrombus in the portal vein made the prognosis poor, there was no significant difference in prognosis between groups with and without tumor thrombus (P = .145). Emergency embolization is an effective treatment in patients with intraperitoneal hemorrhage from HCC. The prognosis for patients with HCC depends on the serum bilirubin level before embolization. 
Conservation therapy for breast cancer following augmentation mammaplasty. Breast conservation therapy (wide local excision, axillary lymph node dissection, and whole-breast irradiation) is an increasingly popular alternative to mastectomy for breast cancer patients. A sizable (and growing) number of breast cancers occur in women with prior augmentation mammaplasty. Augmented breast cancer patients are currently being treated with conservation therapy, but no study has investigated complications and cosmetic results of radiation therapy specifically in this group of women. Between 1981 and 1988, we used conservation therapy in 17 augmented breast cancer patients. Fifteen patients were available for follow-up. In 10 (67 percent), significant capsular contracture occurred in the irradiated breast an average of 12 weeks following completion of treatment. Four patients have undergone revisionary surgery to correct symptoms arising from contracture. This poor outcome contradicts the results reported in previously published studies. We conclude that irradiation of the breast for cancer in augmented women results in a high incidence of scar-tissue contracture and poor cosmetic results. 
Possible metastatic routes via portacaval shunts in renal adenocarcinoma with liver metastasis. Renal adenocarcinoma findings from autopsies on patients with and without liver metastasis (635 and 936 patients, respectively) were investigated concerning the mode of metastasis. The patients with liver metastasis showed a significantly higher frequency of metastases to the lungs, lymph nodes, contralateral kidney, adrenals, pancreas, spleen, peritoneum, and intestines; in the female patients, those with liver metastasis had a higher frequency of metastasis to the ovary and uterus than patients without liver metastasis. Some of the metastases to those organs are explainable by venous spread via portacaval shunts as well as ordinary hematogenous or lymphogenous spread, especially, those to the contralateral kidney, adrenals, spleen, intestines, or ovary. 
Patterns of DNA-ploidy in operable colorectal carcinoma: a prospective study of 100 cases. A prospective study of cellular DNA content was made by means of flow cytometry in a nonconsecutive series of 100 patients undergoing surgery for primary colorectal adenocarcinoma. DNA-aneuploidy was present in 80% of cases (80/100); 39% of these were multiclonal (31/80). There was no significant correlation between DNA-ploidy and the clinical and pathological features examined, except for the primary tumor site (right colon vs. left colon vs. rectum: P less than 0.001). After a minimum follow-up of 30 months, out of 40 patients with no local invasion and/or distant metastases, 100% (9/9) of those with DNA-diploid neoplasias showed no signs of disease relapse, vs. 55% (17/31) of the DNA-aneuploid cases (P less than 0.05). Furthermore, in 45 cases with a minimum follow-up of 30 months, overall survival was 90% in patients with DNA-diploid carcinomas and 43% in the DNA-aneuploid cases (P less than 0.05). 
Effects of long-term amiodarone therapy on the defibrillation threshold and the rate of shocks of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. The effects of long-term amiodarone therapy on the defibrillation thresholds and the rate of shocks were evaluated in 62 patients who had implantation of an automatic cardioverter-defibrillator (n = 53) or prophylactic implantation of patch electrodes (n = 9) who were survivors of sudden cardiac death (n = 34) or had refractory rapid ventricular tachycardia (n = 28). There were 53 men and 9 women, with ages ranging from 18 to 76 years (mean +/- SD, 60 +/- 12). Coronary artery disease occurred in 50 patients (80.6%), cardiomyopathy occurred in six (9.7%), valvular heart disease developed in two (3.2%), primary electrical disease developed in two (3.2%), hypertensive heart disease materialized in one (1.6%), and Ebstein's anomaly occurred in one (1.6%). The left ventricular ejection fraction varied from 10% to 75% (mean, 37 +/- 17%). All patients had failed a mean of 3.9 +/- 1.6 antiarrhythmic drugs prior to implantation of the device. Twenty-eight patients (45%) were taking amiodarone up to the time of surgery, with a mean daily dose of 406 +/- 147 mg (range 200 to 800) and for a mean duration of 6.0 +/- 6.7 months (range 1 to 36 months). The mean defibrillation threshold (DFT) was 12.0 +/- 4.4 joules (range 5 to 20) in the group taking amiodarone and was not significantly different from that of the group not taking amiodarone (n = 32) (mean DFT 12.3 +/- 5.5 joules, range 5 to 30; p = 0.77). 
Acute polyhydramnios associated with chorioangioma. A case report. A case of acute polyhydramnios occurred at 26 weeks' gestation. Prenatal sonography demonstrated a placental chorioangioma. Acute polyhydramnios is clinically distinct from nonacute polyhydramnios and carries a high perinatal mortality rate. As in our case, fetal death often results from complications of prematurity. 
Use of endoscopy in peptic ulcer disease. The diagnosis and treatment of acute bleeding caused by peptic ulcer disease has been greatly facilitated by fiberoptic endoscopy. The basic differentiation between malignant and benign gastric ulcer requires endoscopic confirmation with biopsy. The management of bleeding from peptic ulceration can be enhanced by endoscopic examination as can the prediction of risk for recurrent bleeding or need for surgical intervention. Various therapeutic maneuvers can be performed endoscopically, including monopolar and multipolar cautery, laser and heater probe therapy, and injection of vasoconstrictors to control bleeding. Endoscopic balloon dilation for the management of gastric outlet obstruction is often effective. 
A prospective study of liver function in infants and children exposed to daily isoflurane for several weeks. Eleven infants and children presenting for daily radiotherapy for a period of at least 2 weeks were anaesthetised with isoflurane in 33% oxygen and nitrous oxide. They were unpremedicated and given no other agents to supplement anaesthesia. The average number of exposures was 24 (SD 11; range 10-39) and the total anaesthetic time per exposure varied between 15 and 30 minutes. Liver function was assessed by determining serum total bilirubin, aspartate amino transferase, gamma glutamyl transferase and alkaline phosphatase before the start of treatment and at 5-daily intervals thereafter. There was no measurable change in any of these determinants of liver function. All children accepted daily induction of anaesthesia with isoflurane. Induction, maintenance and recovery from anaesthesia were uncomplicated. 
Neutrophil apoptosis and clearance from neonatal lungs. 8 newborn babies with airways inflammation, who were mechanically ventilated, underwent bronchoalveolar lavage to examine the fate of neutrophils in the inflamed airways. Light microscopy and electronmicroscopy showed evidence of neutrophil apoptosis and ingestion of intact neutrophils by macrophages in specimens from all 8 infants. Neutrophil apoptosis, without the local release of intracellular contents that promote inflammation, might represent a mechanism by which tissue injury is reduced during the resolution of neonatal pulmonary inflammation. 
Sixth nerve schwannomas. Report of two cases. Two cases of sixth cranial nerve schwannoma are presented with a review of four other cases from the literature. The clinical spectrum, neuroradiological findings, and surgical outcome of the six cases are discussed. There are two distinct clinical presentations for sixth cranial nerve schwannomas. Type I sixth nerve schwannomas present with sixth nerve palsy and diplopia and arise from the cavernous sinus. In contrast, type II sixth nerve schwannomas have a more severe presentation with obstructive hydrocephalus, raised intracranial pressure, sixth nerve palsy, and diplopia. This type arises along the course of the sixth cranial nerve in the prepontine area. Cavernous sinus involvement in either type may preclude total surgical excision and indicate an increase possibility for recurrence. 
The role of extrapleural pneumonectomy in malignant pleural mesothelioma. A Lung Cancer Study Group trial Malignant pleural mesothelioma is usually a fatal cancer for which operation has been the mainstay of treatment because chemotherapy and radiation are relatively ineffective. The choice of operation for malignant pleural mesothelioma remains controversial. Extrapleural pneumonectomy has been advocated because it allows complete removal of gross tumor and can be associated with long-term survival. To evaluate extrapleural pneumonectomy, we conducted a prospective multiinstitutional trial in patients with biopsy-proved previously untreated malignant pleural mesothelioma. Criteria for extrapleural pneumonectomy were (1) potentially completely resectable unilateral disease by computed tomography scan, (2) predicted postresection forced expiratory volume in 1 second greater than 1 L/sec, and (3) no other major medical problems. Patients who were not candidates for extrapleural pneumonectomy had a more limited operation with or without adjuvant therapy or had nonsurgical treatment. From September 1985 to June 1988 83 eligible patients (64 male, 19 female) were entered. The mean age for all patients was 59.7 years. Only 20 of the 83 patients (24%) underwent extrapleural pneumonectomy. Three of these 20 patients (15%) died postoperatively. The recurrence-free survival was significantly longer for the patients undergoing extrapleural pneumonectomy than for the other two groups (p = 0.03), but there was no difference in overall survival among the three groups. In univariate analyses, epithelial versus sarcomatoid and mixed histologic findings and platelet count less than 400,000 were associated with a better overall survival (p = 0.02), and performance status (Karnofsky less than 80) was predictive of recurrence (p = 0.02). In a multivariate analysis, histologic findings, sex, age, extrapleural pneumonectomy, weight loss, and performance status all had no significant impact on survival. Extrapleural pneumonectomy was associated with a greater likelihood of relapse in distant sites than were limited operation and nonsurgical treatment. We conclude that (1) only a small proportion of all patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma are candidates for extrapleural pneumonectomy, (2) extrapleural pneumonectomy carries a significant operative mortality and does not seem to improve overall survival compared with more conservative forms of treatment, (3) extrapleural pneumonectomy alters the patterns of relapse, and (4) factors previously thought to have an impact on survival in other series did not affect outcome in this trial. 
Management of acute retention of urine: a reappraisal. Our standard policy for the management of retention of urine due to prostatic hypertrophy is that the patient is catheterised and sent home, later to be seen and assessed in the Out-patient Department where he is given an admission date for operation. A detailed audit of 166 patients cared for in this way is presented and the results compared with those in 25 patients who remained in hospital in the interval between catheterisation and operation and in 402 patients not previously catheterised. Although the mortality rate was significantly higher in the retention group (3.3 vs 0.25%), we feel that this is a reflection of the fitness of the patients with retention rather than a consequence of the management policy. The advantages of the "catheterise and send home" policy are discussed. 
Ruptured saccular aneurysm associated with duplication of the vertebral artery. A case of a ruptured aneurysm arising from a duplicated segment of the intracranial portion of the vertebral artery is reported. This particular association, which can be explained by the embryological development of the vertebral artery, has not been described previously. 
The use of bone allografts for limb salvage in high-grade extremity osteosarcoma. Limb preservation is increasingly being employed in the local treatment of high-grade extremity osteosarcoma. Bone allografts used to reconstruct the bony defects following tumor resection offer many advantages, including joint reconstruction and incorporation of the graft to the host bone in these relatively young patients. The results of 53 patients 30 years of age or younger were assessed to determine functional outcome. Fresh-frozen allografts were employed as osteoarticular grafts, allograft-arthrodeses, allograft-prosthesis composites, or intercalary grafts. Follow-up intervals averaged 25 months (range, two to 63 months). Life-table analysis showed that the probability of a satisfactory functional result was 73% if local tumor recurrences were excluded. Complications included 16 infections, six fractures, 12 nonunions, and six unstable joints. There were five local recurrences. Eighteen grafts ultimately failed, and in six patients, this resulted in an above-knee amputation. An additional five received a second graft. The functional "end results" of the 38 patients with two or more years of follow-up examinations were 70% satisfactory in those without a local recurrence. There was no statistically significant difference in functional outcome or local or distant relapse in those patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy. The authors conclude that allografts can be used for limb reconstruction in patients with high-grade osteosarcoma who receive aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy. The functional results are comparable to other methods of reconstruction, and once incorporated by the host, offer the advantage of longevity, compared with metallic implants. 
Seizures caused by nontraumatic parenchymal brain hemorrhages. Seizures occurred in 15% of patients with parenchymal brain hemorrhage (early in 12% and delayed in 3%). Seizures were most frequent with lobar hemorrhages and uncommon with deep subcortical hemorrhages. Lobar hemorrhages in the frontal, parietal, or temporal region were more commonly associated with seizures, whereas occipital hemorrhages were not. Seizures were most common if the hemorrhage was due to an aneurysm, angioma, or neoplasm and less common if hypertensive or spontaneous. If the patient had recurrent seizures or developed delayed seizures, CT showed that the hemorrhage evolved to a hypodense appearance; if the seizure did not recur, CT showed that the hemorrhage evolved to an isodense appearance. 
Physiological analysis of simple rapid movements in patients with cerebellar deficits. Patients with cerebellar deficits made elbow flexion movements as rapidly as possible for three different angular distances. Electromyographic activity of biceps and triceps and the kinematics of the movements were analysed. Results were compared with those of normal subjects making both rapid and slow movements. In the patients, the first agonist burst of the biceps was frequently prolonged regardless of the distance or speed of the movement. The most striking kinematic abnormality was prolonged acceleration time. The pattern of acceleration time exceeding deceleration time was common in patients but uncommon in normal subjects. The best kinematic correlate of the duration of the first agonist burst was acceleration time. Altered production of appropriate acceleration may therefore be an important abnormality in cerebellar dysfunction for attempted rapid voluntary movements. 
Treatment failure of genital condylomata acuminata in women: role of the male sexual partner. The male sexual partners of women with genital condylomata acuminata are thought to be carriers of human papillomaviruses. It is therefore often recommended that both sexual partners be treated. We studied 360 women with genital warts to test the hypothesis that when the male partners of women with condylomata acuminata are treated, the treatment failure rate decreases. The male sexual partners of 180 of these women were examined and, if indicated, treated (treatment group). The 180 remaining male sexual partners were neither examined nor treated (control group). One hundred twenty-two (68%) men in the treatment group had human papillomavirus-associated lesions. The treatment failure rate of women was 16.7% in the treatment group and 18.9% in the control group. The difference is not statistically significant (p greater than 0.05). The results of this study do not support the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate of women with condylomata acuminata decreases if their male sexual partners are also treated. 
Visual impairment and cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether impaired visual acuity is associated with dementia and cognitive dysfunction in older adults. DESIGN: Paired case-control comparisons of the relative frequencies of visual impairment in demented cases and nondemented controls. Cohort analyses of correlation between visual acuity and cognitive functioning in demented cases. SETTING: Internal medicine clinics at two academically affiliated medical centers. PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-seven consecutively selected patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age with mild-to-moderate, clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (cases) and 87 nondemented controls matched to the cases by age, sex, and education. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The prevalence of visual impairment was higher in cases than in controls [unadjusted odds ratio for near-vision impairment = 2.7 (95% CI = 1.4, 5.2); unadjusted odds ratio for far-vision impairment = 2.1 (95% CI = 1.02, 4.3); odds ratios adjusted for family history of dementia, depression, number of medications, and hearing loss were 2.5 (95% CI = 1.1, 10.5) for near-vision impairment and 1.9 (95% CI = 0.8, 4.6) for far-vision impairment]. When further stratified by quartiles of visual acuity, no statistically significant "dose-response" relationship between vision impairment and dementia risk was observed. Among cases, the degree of visual impairment was significantly correlated with the severity of cognitive dysfunction for both near and far vision (adjusted ps less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Visual impairment is associated with both an increased risk and an increased clinical severity of Alzheimer's disease, but the increased risk may not be consistent with a progressive dose-response relationship. Further studies are needed to determine whether visual impairment unmasks and exacerbates the symptoms of dementia or is a marker of disease severity. 
Maternally inherited myopathy and cardiomyopathy: association with mutation in mitochondrial DNA tRNA(Leu)(UUR). Different point mutations of the mitochondrial genome, which all affect the ability of mitochondria to translate their own genes and lead to partial defects of mtDNA-dependent respiratory complexes, are related to distinct clinical mitochondrial disorders. A new maternally inherited disorder, characterised by a combination of adult-onset myopathy and cardiomyopathy, with no clinical involvement of the nervous system, was found in members of a single large pedigree. A heteroplasmic new mutation was identified in the mtDNA gene specifying tRNA(Leu)(UUR). This mutation segregated specifically with the disorder, and there were significant correlations between the proportion of the mtDNA that was of the mutant form and the activities (normalised for citrate synthase activity) of the two mtDNA-dependent respiratory enzymes (complex I, r = -0.71, p less than 0.005: complex IV r = -0.77, p less than 0.005) and the maximum oxygen consumption (r = -0.82, p less than 0.005), a physiological index of aerobic metabolism. These findings strongly suggest that the tRNA(Leu)(UUR) mutation is the genetic cause of this disorder, and that lesions of mtDNA should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the hereditary cardiomyopathies. 
Selective attenuation by perivascular blood of prostanoid-dependent cerebrovascular dilation in piglets. Cerebral hemorrhagic insults are common in neonates. However, the consequences of intracranial blood on cerebral hemodynamics are poorly understood. We examined the effects of perivascular blood on cerebrovascular dilator responses in 29 piglets. Fresh, autologous blood (n = 15) or cerebrospinal fluid (n = 14) was placed under the dura mater over the parietal cortex, and the piglets were allowed to recover from anesthesia. One to four days later, a closed cranial window was placed over the parietal cortex and pial arteriolar responses to arterial hypercapnia (PaCO2 greater than 55 mm Hg), hemorrhagic hypotension (mean arterial blood pressure less than 35 mm Hg), or topical application of 10(-6) and 10(-4) M isoproterenol were determined. Pial arterioles in the cerebrospinal fluid group dilated 27 +/- 4% (mean +/- SEM) (n = 11) in response to hypercapnia, 26 +/- 5% (n = 9) in response to hypotension, and 26 +/- 3% in response to 10(-6) M and 40 +/- 4% in response to 10(-4) M isoproterenol (n = 11). In the group in which blood was placed on the parietal cortex, pial arterioles did not dilate significantly in response to hypercapnia (8 +/- 3%, n = 11) or hypotension (2 +/- 5%, n = 13) but dilated normally in response to isoproterenol (25 +/- 5% in response to 10(-6) M and 36 +/- 7% in response to 10(-4) M, n = 13). We conclude that prolonged contact of pial arterioles with extravascular blood selectively attenuates cerebrovascular dilation in piglets. 
Prevalence of coronary risk factors in elderly blacks and whites. Coronary risk factors were determined in a prospective study of 1,414 elderly persons (999 women and 415 men), mean age 82 +/- 8 years. Of 1,414 persons, 215 (15%) were black and 1,140 (81%) were white. The prevalences of cigarette smoking, hypercholesterolemia, low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and increased serum total cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio were not significantly different in elderly blacks and whites. Elderly blacks had a higher prevalence of hypertension (50% versus 36%, P less than 0.001), diabetes mellitus (27% versus 19%, P less than 0.01), and obesity (11% versus 5%, P less than 0.005) and a lower prevalence of hypertriglyceridemia (9% versus 15%, P less than 0.05) than elderly whites. In elderly persons with hypertension, electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy occurred in 19% of blacks and 14% of whites (P not significant), echocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy occurred in 72% of blacks and 56% of whites (P less than 0.01), and concentric left ventricular hypertrophy occurred in 60% of blacks and 39% of whites (P less than 0.001). 
Pain management. Patients with pain are not a new phenomena. For centuries, the incidence of pain has been well-documented. Responsibility for pain management has not been a universal priority for health care providers; however, pain management must be considered an integral part of the nursing role. The health care system must facilitate the improved management of patient's pain. A better understanding of the factors that underpin the effective management of a patient's pain is necessary. In this article, the theoretical foundation and conceptual model used in the expansion of this knowledge is presented. Further, the physiologic and pharmacologic principles related to this patient care issue are discussed. Appropriate consideration of the nurse's significant part in the management of pain is emphasized. 
Interrupting the adaptive changes in congestive heart failure. Circulating plasma concentrations of norepinephrine, renin, angiotensin and vasopressin are increased in congestive heart failure. By increasing ventricular afterload, heart failure is further worsened, which in turn--in a vicious cycle--stimulates neurohumoral vasoconstrictor mechanisms. Furthermore, because of the compensatory but excessive stimulation of the sympathomimetic system, a down-regulation and desensitization particularly of the myocardial beta 1 receptors and depletion of myocardial catecholamine occurs in chronic heart failure. These defects may be restored toward normal by interventions that attenuate the activity of the sympathetic nervous system. A direct approach to modify the excessive vasoconstriction is to administer systemic vasodilator drugs, but despite favorable short-term effects, tolerance developed to most of these drugs during long-term treatment. One reason for the loss of effectiveness is the reflex activation of the sympathetic system, which increases vasoconstrictor hormone concentrations. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system can be modified effectively by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors that have shown favorable responses in patients with chronic heart failure. Beta-blocking agents interfere with endogenous sympathetic activation and have produced beneficial effects in patients with congestive cardiomyopathy. Long-term treatment is associated with up-regulation of the number of beta receptors and an improved responsiveness to catecholamines. Owing to the negative inotropic effects of beta-blocking agents, some of the patients with severe heart failure deteriorated hemodynamically and clinically. Theoretically, it should be advantageous to have a substance that combines protection against excessive beta stimulation with a mild inotropic support to prevent cardiac decompensation. This may be achieved by a selective beta 1-partial agonist like xamoterol. 
The relative value of consultation, questionnaires and laboratory investigation in the identification of excessive alcohol consumption. Alcohol is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in Britain. Consultation, questionnaires and laboratory tests may all be used to help identify alcohol abuse and thereby prevent and treat alcohol-related problems. Consultation which can identify 80% of alcohol abusers involves recording the findings of alcohol and general histories and physical examination. The accuracy of the assessment depends on the reliability of the respondent and the respondent's relations and friends, and on the skill of the investigator; however, thorough assessment is time-consuming and expensive. Questionnaires may identify up to 80% of alcoholics. They are generally based on the Michigan Alcohol Screening Test and CAGE questionnaires and are simple, rapid to complete, inexpensive and not dependent on skilled investigators; however, the principal disadvantage of using questionnaires is that a personal relationship is not developed with the subject. Finally, simple and complex laboratory tests may be used. Of the simple laboratory tests, raised GGT or MCV levels are the most useful and when these values are combined, 90% of alcoholics may be identified correctly. Complex laboratory tests may exhibit greater sensitivity and specificity and provide useful additional information; however, their restricted availability limits their widespread use. The value of each of these methods depends on the objective of the assessment. For population surveys, questionnaires are of greatest relative value and consultation and laboratory tests may be used to confirm the presence of alcohol abuse. In general practice and the hospital setting, it is imperative to include questions on alcohol intake and alcohol-related problems in all interviews with patients. Laboratory tests may be used to confirm suspected alcohol abuse and questionnaires may provide useful screening tools. Finally, in the specialist alcohol unit, consultation, questionnaires and laboratory investigations are all important for identifying alcohol abuse. In this setting, consultation is of particular importance and the alcohol history and physical examination should be recorded by a skilled investigator and the results confirmed with relatives and close friends. Questionnaires are useful as initial screening or assessment tools and computer-based systems may facilitate data collection. Simple and complex laboratory tests may be used to confirm the diagnosis and help ascertain the extent of disease. By assuming that 'all patients have alcohol-related problems until proven otherwise', and through the appropriate application of consultation, questionnaires and laboratory tests, identification of excessive alcohol consumption and the prevention of its sequelae will be facilitated. 
Healing of erosive esophagitis with sucralfate and cimetidine: influence of pretreatment lower esophageal sphincter pressure and serum pepsinogen I levels. Forty-eight patients with erosive reflux esophagitis were allocated to either sucralfate tablets, 4 g/day, or cimetidine, 1.6 g/day, for 8 weeks in a randomized, prospective, single-blind, cross-over therapeutic trial. Pretreatment lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressure and serum pepsinogen I (PG-I) levels were investigated as possible predictors of healing with either drug. The trial was completed by 41 patients (21 in the sucralfate group and 20 in the cimetidine group); one patient in each group was removed because of side effects. Symptom improvement occurred to a similar extent in both groups. Endoscopic results after 8 weeks of treatment with sucralfate revealed complete healing of esophageal erosions in 48% (cimetidine, 55%) and improvement in an additional 19% (cimetidine, 20%). Neither of these differences was statistically significant. Some patients refractory to one drug had endoscopic healing of esophagitis when treated with the other drug after crossover. LES pressure did not influence outcome in patients treated with sucralfate, whereas significantly (p = 0.024) more patients refractory to cimetidine had an LES pressure less than 7 mm Hg than did those with a good response to the histamine-2 (H2)-receptor blockade. Patients whose esophagitis healed or improved after sucralfate tended to have lower serum PG-I levels than those with treatment failure (104 +/- 35 ng/mL vs 125 +/- 45 ng/mL), whereas the opposite occurred in patients treated with cimetidine (132 +/- 58 ng/mL in responders vs 78 +/- 27 ng/mL in nonresponders, p = 0.048). The results confirm that sucralfate is a valuable alternative to H2-receptor inhibitors for the treatment of reflux esophagitis. They also provide preliminary evidence that LES pressures and serum PG-I levels may have predictive value of the response to one or the other of these two drugs. 
Progression and regression of minor coronary arterial narrowings by quantitative angiography after fenofibrate therapy. To study the effects of fenofibrate, a lipid-lowering medication, on patients with coronary artery disease, 191 minor coronary narrowings in 42 patients with coronary artery disease were analyzed by quantitative coronary angiography using computer-assisted contour detection. Computed parameters were percent diameter reduction and percent plaque area. A prospectively formed intervention group of 21 patients treated with special diet and fenofibrate (200 to 400 mg/day) was checked every 6 weeks with regard to risk factors. After a mean interval of 21 months, coronary angiography was repeated, using the same x-ray system and nearly identical projections. The intervention group was angiographically compared at follow-up with an untreated comparison group, also comprising 21 patients. Both groups had high initial serum cholesterol (mean 311 mg/dl) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels (mean 235 mg/dl). Only among the treated patients did lipid levels change significantly: cholesterol, -19%; LDL cholesterol, -20%; high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, +19%; and triglycerides, -30%. At angiographic follow-up, the changes in percent diameter reduction and percent plaque area correlated positively with the mean serum and LDL cholesterol levels of the intervention group. Significant differences were found in the change in percent plaque area between both groups. The intervention subgroup with angiographic regressions (11 patients) had significantly lower serum and LDL cholesterol levels than the intervention subgroup with angiographic progressions (10 patients). These results indicate the beneficial effect of fenofibrate on minor coronary narrowings. Because of its high reproducibility in measuring minor narrowings, quantitative coronary angiography proved to be a suitable method for angiographic follow-up. 
Early results of aortic valve replacement with or without concomitant coronary artery bypass grafting. Early results of aortic valve replacement were reviewed in 962 unselected patients, 659 without concomitant coronary bypass surgery (AVR group) and 303 with combined valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting (AVR + CABG). The early (less than 30-day) mortality was 4.6% in the AVR, and 5.9% in the AVR + CABG group. Multivariate analysis showed coronary artery stenoses and NYHA functional class to be independent predictors of early mortality in the AVR group, and the number of distal anastomoses as the strongest predictor in AVR + CABG. The incidence of peroperative technical complications in the cases with fatal outcome was 27% in the AVR and 6% in the AVR + CABG group. The incidence of myocardial injury (new Q wave or evidence of increased enzyme leakage) was 11% in AVR and 21% in AVR + CABG. Independent predictors of postoperative myocardial injury were aortic cross-clamp time, year of surgery, coronary artery stenoses and NYHA class in AVR and aortic cross-clamp time and year of surgery in AVR + CABG. The study suggests that coronary artery disease increases risk in aortic valve replacement with or without CABG. Replacement should be undertaken before endstage of the disease (NYHA IV), with CABG if significant coronary disease is present, and in multivessel disease the number of distal anastomoses should be restricted in order to shorten aortic cross-clamp time. 
The nature of the naming deficit in Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease. A comparison of naming performance, on the Boston Naming Test, of 52 patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT), 16 patients with Huntington's disease (HD) and 52 normal control subjects was performed using a comprehensive classification of error types. Spontaneous and cued naming scores were significantly impaired both in the DAT and HD groups, but performance in the DAT patients was significantly worse than that of the HD patients. Normal controls made predominantly semantic-category and circumlocutory errors. The HD group differed from normal only in the proportion of visually based errors, which was greater in the patient group. By contrast, the DAT patients made a significantly greater proportion of semantic-superordinate and semantic-associative errors. The same pattern of naming errors was found when a group of DAT and HD patients matched for overall naming ability was compared. A subgroup of 22 DAT patients was followed longitudinally over 3 y. Their deterioration in overall naming performance was accompanied by a consistent change in the profile of naming errors: the proportion of semantic-associative errors increased significantly as did the proportion of visual errors. These results are considered in the light of current cognitive models of naming. They suggest that in HD, naming deficits initially involve disruption of perceptual analysis, whereas in DAT such impairments in the early stages reflect a breakdown in semantic processes. However, as DAT progresses, perceptual problems also begin to contribute to the patients' naming difficulties. Postlexical (phonemic) processes remain relatively intact throughout in both diseases. 
Immunohistology of temporal arteritis: phenotyping of infiltrating cells and deposits of complement components. Deposition of complement factors, immunoglobulins and infiltrating cells was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining in 30 temporal artery biopsy specimens from patients suffering from temporal arteritis and/or polymyalgia rheumatica and in controls. In the temporal arteritis group infiltrating cells, classic complement, alternative complement and lytic complex activation were detected. In specimens from patients suffering from only polymyalgia rheumatica there was unexpected evidence of classic complement and lytic complex activation. We conclude that immuno-histochemistry provides support for the concept of temporal arteritis and polymyalgia being based on the same pathological process. 
Anti-MY9-blocked-ricin: an immunotoxin for selective targeting of acute myeloid leukemia cells. The use of immunotoxins (IT) to selectively destroy acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells in vivo or in vitro is complicated by both the antigenic similarity of AML cells to normal progenitor cells and the difficulty of producing a sufficiently toxic conjugate. The monoclonal antibody (MoAb) anti-MY9 is potentially ideal for selective recognition of AML cells because it reacts with an antigen (CD33) found on clonogenic AML cells from greater than 80% of cases and does not react with normal pluripotent stem cells. In this study, we describe an immunotoxin that is selectively active against CD33+ AML cells: Anti-MY9-blocked-Ricin (Anti-MY9-bR), comprised of anti-MY9 conjugated to a modified whole ricin that has its nonspecific binding eliminated by chemical blockage of the galactose binding domains of the B-chain. A limiting dilution assay was used to measure elimination of HL-60 leukemic cells from a 20-fold excess of normal bone marrow cells. Depletion of CD33+ HL-60 cells was found to be dependent on the concentration of Anti-MY9-bR and on the duration of incubation with IT at 37 degrees C. More than 4 logs of these leukemic cells were specifically depleted following short exposure to high concentrations (10(-8) mol/L) of Anti-MY9-bR. Incubation with much lower concentrations of Anti-MY9-bR (10(-10) mol/L), as compatible with in vivo administration, resulted in 2 logs of depletion of HL-60 cells, but 48 to 72 hours of continuous exposure were required. Anti-MY9-bR was also shown to be toxic to primary AML cells, with depletion of greater than 2 logs of clonogenic cells following incubation with Anti-MY9-bR 10(-8) mol/L at 37 degrees C for 5 hours. Activity of Anti-MY9-bR could be blocked by unconjugated Anti-MY9 but not by galactose. As expected, Anti-MY9-bR was toxic to normal colony-forming unit granulocyte-monocyte (CFU-GM), which expresses CD33, in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, and also to burst-forming unit-erythroid and CFU-granulocyte, erythroid, monocyte, megakaryocyte, although to a lesser extent. When compared with anti-MY9 and complement (C'), Anti-MY9-bR could be used in conditions that provided more effective depletion of AML cells with substantially less depletion of normal CFU-GM. Therefore, Anti-MY9-bR may have clinical utility for in vitro purging of AML cells from autologous marrow when used at high IT concentrations for short incubation periods. Much lower concentrations of Anti-MY9-bR that can be maintained for longer periods may be useful for elimination of AML cells in vivo. 
Pseudoaneurysm of the internal carotid artery: a forgotten complication of tonsillitis? Pseudoaneurysm of the internal carotid artery is an uncommon but potentially lethal complication of tonsillar or peritonsillar sepsis, which appears to have occurred more frequently prior to the introduction of penicillin. Management of such a case is discussed, and a literature review presented. 
Postoperative analgesic requirements following flumazenil administration. The effect of flumazenil (RO 15-1788) on postoperative analgesic requirements was evaluated in 30 postoperative patients. This prospective investigation was a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients undergoing general anesthesia supplemented by midazolam and fentanyl or sufentanil. Patients received either flumazenil (n = 20) or placebo (n = 10) by random assignment. Analgesic requirements were measured in morphine equivalents (MEs) and were recorded for a three-hour period following the administration of flumazenil. All patients received the assigned treatment within five minutes of arrival to the postanesthesia room. Total ME requirements were 4.1 +/- 3.8 mg for the flumazenil group and 4.5 +/- 4.6 mg (p = 0.71) for the placebo group. Patient analgesic requirements were also assessed when patients were adequately alert. For the flumazenil group this time period was 6.2 +/- 12.7 minutes versus 52.9 +/- 28.4 minutes for placebo (p less than 0.01). MEs (flumazenil 4.1 +/- 3.8 mg vs. placebo 3.7 +/- 3.2 mg) were not significantly different (p = 0.57) when similar levels of consciousness were compared. The onset of pain was more rapid with flumazenil patients as evidenced by the first analgesic dose at 15.7 +/- 25.1 minutes for the flumazenil group versus 34.7 +/- 43.7 for the placebo group; however, these data were not statistically different (p = 0.144). These results suggest that flumazenil does not increase postoperative analgesic requirements during the immediate postanesthesia period; however, patients receiving flumazenil may experience an earlier onset of postoperative pain. 
Echocardiographic evidence for the existence of a distinct diabetic cardiomyopathy (the Framingham Heart Study). Although several reports have described early changes of cardiac structure and function in diabetic patients, controversy persists regarding the existence of a clinically distinct diabetic cardiomyopathy. To this end, sex-specific linear regression analyses were used to examine the contribution of diabetes mellitus and glucose intolerance to age-adjusted echocardiographic parameters in 1,986 men (mean age 48 years) and 2,529 women (mean age 50 years) from the original Framingham Study cohort and the Framingham Offspring Study. Subjects with evidence of cardiovascular disease at the time of echocardiogram were excluded. Diabetics had higher heart rates than nondiabetics (67.9 vs 64.0 beats/min (p = 0.002) in men, and 73.1 vs 68.3 beats/min (p = 0.004) in women). Diabetic women had increased left ventricular (LV) wall thickness (18.7 vs 17.1 mm, p less than 0.001), relative wall thickness (0.403 vs 0.377, p = 0.008), LV end-diastolic dimension (46.9 vs 45.7 mm, p = 0.03) and LV mass corrected for height (100.4 vs 82.2 g/m, p less than 0.001). Women with glucose intolerance showed similar, less significant trends (p = 0.007 for wall thickness, p less than 0.01 for LV mass). In diabetic men, fractional shortening was slightly reduced (0.355 vs 0.360, p less than 0.05). In a multivariate model that included potentially confounding factors, diabetes remained an independent contributor to LV mass (p = 0.004) and wall thickness (p = 0.008) in women. In a separate linear regression model, which assessed the association of age with LV mass, the age-coefficient for diabetic women was much higher than that for nondiabetics (13.6 vs 6.6 g/m per 10-year increment in age). 
Treatment of unresectable meningiomas with the antiprogesterone agent mifepristone. The possibility that meningioma growth may be related to female sex hormone levels is suggested by several lines of evidence. Meningiomas are twice as common in women as in men, have been observed to wax and wane with pregnancy, and are positively associated with breast cancer. A physiological explanation for these phenomena is provided by the finding of steroid hormone receptors in meningiomas. However, unlike breast cancer, meningiomas are much more commonly positive for progesterone receptors than for estrogen receptors. The authors initiated a study on long-term oral therapy of unresectable meningiomas with the antiprogesterone mifepristone (RU486). Fourteen patients received mifepristone in daily doses of 200 mg for periods ranging from 2 to 31+ months (greater than or equal to 6 months in 12 patients). Five patients have shown signs of objective response (reduced tumor measurement on computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance image, or improved visual field examination). Three have also experienced subjective improvement (improved extraocular muscle function or relief from headache). The side effects of long-term mifepristone therapy have been mild. Fatigue was noted in 11 of the 14 patients. Other side effects included hot flashes in five patients, gynecomastia in three, partial alopecia in two, and cessation of menses in two. Long-term therapy with mifepristone is a new therapeutic option that may have efficacy in cases of unresectable benign meningioma. 
Telangiectatic osteosarcoma. Telangiectatic osteosarcoma is a rare variant of osteosarcoma. In the original report from the authors' institution, a poor prognosis was noted. The authors have updated their experience with this entity. The prognosis for patients with telangiectatic osteosarcoma has improved remarkably. The prognosis in the present series seems to be the same as that for conventional osteosarcoma. Adjuvant chemotherapy seems to help in salvaging patients with metastatic disease. However, in this small series, survival of patients without metastasis is apparently not influenced by whether they received chemotherapy. 
A population-based study of bronchial asthma in adult twin pairs. Aggregation of cases of bronchial asthma in adult twin pairs was studied in the nationwide Finnish twin cohort consisting of 13,888 adult monozygotic (MZ) and same-sex dizygotic (DZ) pairs. Cases of asthma were ascertained by record-linkage from three sources of data: death certificates from the Central Statistical Office; hospital discharges from the nationwide hospital registry; and the nationwide registry for fully reimbursed medications of the Social Insurance Institution. A diagnosis of bronchial asthma in one or more of these registers was obtained for 525 (236 men and 289 women) out of 27,776 twin individuals. Among MZ pairs, ten concordant and 138 discordant pairs were identified, while among DZ pairs, 12 concordant and 343 discordant pairs were found. In the whole sample the observed-expected ratio for the number of pairs concordant for bronchial asthma was 4.30 (95 percent confidence interval [CI], 2.06 to 7.90) in MZ pairs and 2.61 (95 percent CI, 1.35 to 4.56) in DZ pairs. Using a multifactorial threshold model, we estimated the correlation in liability to asthma as 0.425 (SE = 0.07) in MZ twins and 0.247 (SE = 0.06) in DZ twins, and we obtained a heritability estimate of 35.6 percent. The data also showed a gender difference in asthma heredity, which may, however, be due to chance events affecting the distribution of concordant pairs. 
Lack of efficacy of tranexamic acid in thrombocytopenic bleeding. A controlled, randomized, double-blind study was performed to assess the effect of the oral antifibrinolytic agent tranexamic acid in patients with amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia as regards their need for platelet transfusions and the number of bleeding episodes experienced. Each patient served as his or her own control and received sequential, randomized courses of either tranexamic acid or an identical placebo. The need for platelet transfusions due to bleeding and the total number of bleeding episodes were compared for tranexamic acid and placebo courses. Patients received platelet transfusions at the discretion of their personal physician and kept detailed records of bleeding episodes. Of three patients who completed the full study, none had a reduction in the need for platelet transfusions. Moreover, in the eight patients who participated in the study, there was no reduction in number of bleeding episodes during tranexamic acid treatment as compared to the number with placebo. Our data indicate that the prophylactic administration of tranexamic acid does not decrease dependence on platelet transfusions or decrease bleeding episodes in patients with bleeding due to amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia. 
Intrathecal baclofen for intractable axial dystonia. Following spinal instrumentation for scoliosis, a patient developed intractable axial dystonia refractory to conservative medical management. We describe the successful treatment of this dystonia with a continuous infusion of intrathecal baclofen and the subsequent long-term management. 
Neoplastic disease of the spine. In summary, MR imaging has become the single most effective modality for the evaluation of spinal neoplasms by virtue of its ability to image the spinal cord directly and noninvasively. In this fashion, one can localize mass lesions relative to the spinal cord; in conjunction with the patient's clinical history, it is thus possible to provide a brief yet accurate differential diagnosis. Intravenous paramagnetic contrast enhancement also may prove extremely useful in further delineating such lesions. In addition, it has demonstrated a high sensitivity to primary and secondary tumors of the bony spine through its ability to detect subtle T1 signal changes in the vertebral marrow space. 
Retroviral-mediated gene therapy for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma: an innovative approach for cancer therapy. An approach involving retroviral-mediated gene therapy for the treatment of neoplastic disease is described. This therapeutic approach is called "virus-directed enzyme/prodrug therapy" (VDEPT). The VDEPT approach exploits the transcriptional differences between normal and neoplastic cells to achieve selective killing of neoplastic cells. We now describe development of the VDEPT approach for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. Replication-defective, amphotrophic retroviruses were constructed containing a chimeric varicella-zoster virus thymidine kinase (VZV TK) gene that is transcriptionally regulated by either the hepatoma-associated alpha-fetoprotein or liver-associated albumin transcriptional regulatory sequences. Subsequent to retroviral infection, expression of VZV TK was limited to either alpha-fetoprotein- or albumin-positive cells, respectively. VZV TK metabolically activated the nontoxic prodrug 6-methoxypurine arabinonucleoside (araM), ultimately leading to the formation of the cytotoxic anabolite adenine arabinonucleoside triphosphate (araATP). Cells that selectively expressed VZV TK became selectively sensitive to araM due to the VZV TK-dependent anabolism of araM to araATP. Hence, these retroviral-delivered chimeric genes generated tissue-specific expression of VZV TK, tissue-specific anabolism of araM to araATP, and tissue-specific cytotoxicity due to araM exposure. By utilizing such retroviral vectors, araM was anabolized to araATP in hepatoma cells, producing a selective cytotoxic effect. 
Clinical genetics and genetic counseling in Alzheimer disease. Because of growing evidence for genetic causes of Alzheimer disease, clinicians are often asked about risks for this disorder among relatives of patients. This paper briefly reviews the evidence for genetic and other causes of Alzheimer disease, including specifically its typical late-onset variant. Several recent developments in the molecular genetics of early-onset Alzheimer disease are described briefly. These findings, however, may not apply to more typical, late-onset Alzheimer disease. Genetic studies of the latter disorder are complicated by the censorship of any inherited predisposition to disease by death from other causes. Hence, heritable disease may be apparent only in families with large numbers of elderly relatives at risk. Relying on empiric observations of risk among relatives from several recent studies of pooled Alzheimer families, curves are presented describing theoretic age-specific risks in relatives of patients and unaffected controls. Real (current) lifetime risks of Alzheimer disease are then estimated by modification of the theoretic figures with corresponding current age-specific mortality characteristics of the U.S. population. The lifetime incidence among relatives of patients with Alzheimer disease is estimated to be 19%, or three to four times the risk among control relatives. Because both mortality of and risk for Alzheimer disease change rapidly with advancing age, it may be possible to reduce the current morbidity from Alzheimer disease by 50% if onset can be postponed by only 5 years. 
Symptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux, abnormal oesophageal acid exposure, and mucosal acid sensitivity are three separate, though related, aspects of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. The Bernstein test has been used as a test of oesophageal acid sensitivity for over 30 years but its clinical value has been challenged by the advent of ambulatory pH monitoring. Furthermore, the relation between mucosal acid sensitivity, symptomatic reflux, and abnormal oesophageal acid exposure time is unclear. This study examined the relation between these three parameters in patients referred for pH monitoring with unexplained chest pain or heartburn. Fifty consecutive patients were studied - nine with non-cardiac chest pain and 41 with a history of heartburn. Symptomatic reflux was defined as a greater than or equal to 50% temporal association between pain episodes and reflux events (pH less than 4) during pH monitoring. A positive acid perfusion test (in which the patient's usual symptoms were evoked by acid, though not saline) had a 100% sensitivity, 73% specificity, and 81% accuracy for the detection of symptomatic reflux. All 10 patients with symptomatic reflux during pH monitoring had evidence of mucosal acid sensitivity. A negative acid perfusion test made symptomatic reflux unlikely. However, symptomatic reflux or a positive acid perfusion test, or both, were found in some patients with a normal oesophageal acid exposure time during pH monitoring. Mucosal acid sensitivity, abnormal oesophageal acid exposure time, and symptomatic reflux should be regarded as separate, though related aspects of reflux disease. The Bernstein test is simple, safe, and easily performed. A positive test helps to identify an oesophageal cause of symptoms, particularly in patients in whom other aspects of 'gastro-oesophageal reflux disease' are absent, or who do not have symptoms during pH monitoring. 
Cytomegalovirus epididymitis following renal transplantation. Cytomegalovirus infection is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised individuals. The disease is usually systemic in expression although localized infection can occur, particularly in the lung, liver, retina and gastrointestinal tract. We report a case of cytomegalovirus epididymitis with limited systemic manifestations occurring 2 months after renal transplantation in a patient immunosuppressed with azathioprine, prednisone and cyclosporine. Diagnosis was confirmed by observation of typical cytopathic changes in epididymal cells. Clinical resolution occurred with epididymo-orchiectomy and 9-(1,3-dihydroxy-2-proproxymethyl)guanine therapy. To our knowledge this presentation has not been described previously in the transplant literature and it is extremely rare in other forms of inherited or acquired immune deficiency. 
Surgical strategies in the treatment of pancreatic necrosis and infection. Controversy still surrounds the management of necrotic and septic complications of acute pancreatitis. A review of the literature of the past decade dealing with the surgical treatment of pancreatic necrosis, pancreatic abscess and infected pancreatic necrosis has been undertaken. Three main patterns of management could be identified: (1) 'conventional treatment', consisting of pancreatic resection or necrosectomy with drainage; (2) 'local lavage', consisting of necrosectomy followed by regional lavage; and (3) 'open management', with resection or necrosectomy followed by planned multiple re-explorations. From this review it appears that local lavage and open management offer better survival prospects than conventional treatment. Open abdomen techniques, however, are associated with an increased risk of complications, such as colonic necrosis, intestinal fistula, and intra-abdominal bleeding. Excellent results can be achieved in specialized centres with any of the three methods, provided adequate debridement and prompt reoperations are undertaken if the septic state persists. 
Treatment of fulminant viral hepatic failure with prostaglandin E. A preliminary report. The effect of prostaglandins (PG) in patients with fulminant and subfulminant viral hepatitis was studied. Seventeen patients presented with FHF secondary to hepatitis A (N = 3), hepatitis B (N = 6) and non-A, non-B (NANB) hepatitis (N = 8). Fourteen of the 17 patients had stage III or IV hepatic encephalopathy (HE). At presentation, the mean AST was 1844 +/- 1246 units/liter, bilirubin 232 +/- 135 mumol/liter, PT 34 +/- 18 and PTT 73 +/- 26 sec, and coagulation factors V and VII were 8 +/- 4 and 9 +/- 51%, respectively. Twelve of 17 patients responded to PGE1 rapidly, with a decrease in AST from 1540 +/- 833 to 188 +/- 324 units/liter, a decrease in prothrombin time from 27 +/- 7 sec to 12 +/- 1 sec, PTT from 61 +/- 10 sec to 31 +/- 2 sec, and an increase in factor V from 9 +/- 4% to 69 +/- 18% and factor VII from 11 +/- 5% to 71 +/- 20%. Five responders with NANB hepatitis relapsed upon discontinuation of therapy, with recurrence of HE and increases in AST and PT but improvement was observed upon retreatment. After four weeks of intravenous therapy, oral PGE2 was substituted. Two patients have recovered completely and remain in remission six and 12 months following cessation of therapy. Two additional patients continue in remission after two and six months of PGE2. No relapses have been seen in patients with hepatitis A virus (HAV) or hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Liver biopsies in the 12 surviving patients have returned to normal. These results suggest efficacy of PGE for FHF. Further investigation is warranted. 
High-signal-intensity rim surrounding uterine leiomyomas on MR images: pathologic correlation. A high-intensity rim surrounding uterine leiomyomas was identified on T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images in five of 13 patients with histopathologically confirmed leiomyomas. These peripheral high-intensity rims were not associated with subject age or with size, location, or degeneration of the leiomyomas. Histologic examination revealed markedly dilated lymphatic vessels, dilated veins, edema, or a combination of these features to correspond to the location of the high-intensity rims. These benign causes of high intensity in the myometrium should not be confused with clinically important processes such as adenomyosis or invasion by endometrial carcinoma. 
Detection of hepatic masses in patients with carcinoma: comparative sensitivities of sonography, CT, and MR imaging. To evaluate the sensitivity of sonography, CT, and MR imaging in the detection of hepatic masses in carcinoma patients, we conducted a prospective study of 75 consecutive patients with gastrointestinal tumors who were admitted for surgical resection of the primary tumor. Sonography was performed with convex transducers of 3.5 and 5.0 MHz. Three noninvasive CT techniques were used: unenhanced CT scans, the incremental bolus dynamic scanning technique, and delayed scanning 4-6 hr after bolus injection of 60 g of iodine. MR images (1.5 T) were acquired as presaturated T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo sequences and as breath-holding fast low-angle shot (FLASH) 60 degrees and FLASH 15 degrees sequences. As it is difficult to distinguish benign from malignant masses solely on the basis of morphologic criteria, the techniques for each imaging method were designed to detect and not to characterize hepatic lesions. Each examination was interpreted blindly, and the results were compared with surgical findings, intraoperative sonography, and biopsy of the liver as the gold standard. All focal hepatic masses verified at surgery, malignant or benign, were included in the analysis. Sixty-five (68%) of 95 focal hepatic masses were detected by CT, 60 lesions (63%) by MR, and 50 lesions (53%) by sonography. Although lesions 1-2 cm were shown almost equally well by CT and MR (74% and 77%, respectively), the detection rate of smaller lesions (less than 1.0 cm) decreased more drastically with MR (31%) than with CT (49%). Sonography had a sensitivity of only 20% with the smaller lesions. All imaging techniques had a sensitivity of 100% for focal hepatic masses larger than 2.0 cm. Our results show that CT has a higher overall sensitivity (68%) than MR and sonography for the detection of focal hepatic masses. When the results of the three procedures are combined, the overall sensitivity is 77%. This is unsatisfactorily low, as CT and MR have a size threshold of about 1.0 cm and are relatively unreliable for the detection of smaller lesions. 
Body fat, coronary heart disease, and stroke in Japanese men. The Honolulu Heart Program (HHP) is a prospective study of heart disease and stroke in Japanese-American men in Hawaii. Body weight, height, and subscapular and triceps skinfold thicknesses were measured by using standard methods at the baseline exam held in 1965-1968. The relationship of measures of body fatness to the 20-y follow-up for coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke of these men was explored. Body mass index (BMI), subscapular skinfold thicknesses, and centrality index (subscapular skinfold thickness/triceps skinfold thickness) were predictors of CHD in this population, even after other risk factors were added to a multivariate model, indicating an independent contribution of body fat to CHD risk. Neither BMI nor centrality index was related to stroke. However, subscapular skinfold thickness was an independent predictor of stroke. The implications of these findings are that lifestyle changes that lead to an increase in obesity of Japanese men in Hawaii may increase risk for cardiovascular disease. 
Successful intracardiac electrical conversion of atrial flutter in patients with complex congenital heart disease. Sixteen patients presenting on 21 occasions with atrial flutter in association with complex congenital heart disease were treated by intracardiac stimulation techniques combined with activation mapping. Nineteen episodes of atrial flutter were successfully converted to sinus rhythm. In the remaining two episodes atrial fibrillation was induced with spontaneous conversion to sinus rhythm within 12 hours in one episode and immediate DC cardioversion to sinus rhythm in the other. Intracardiac stimulation techniques were highly successful in this group and allowed reliable conversion to sinus rhythm without general anaesthesia and high energy cardioversion. In patients with atrial flutter associated with congenital heart disease intracardiac stimulation techniques should be tried first. 
Interstitial delivery of dexamethasone in the brain for the reduction of peritumoral edema. Controlled-release polymers have facilitated the interstitial delivery of drugs within the central nervous system. In the present study, dexamethasone was incorporated into ethylene-vinyl acetate polymers, which were then implanted adjacent to a 9L gliosarcoma in the brain of Fischer 344 rats. The effect of interstitial delivery of dexamethasone on peritumoral edema was assessed and compared to the effect of dexamethasone delivered systemically. Eighty-five rats underwent intracranial implantation of the 9L gliosarcoma. Five days later, the animals were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups: Group 1 received intracranial implantation of controlled-release polymers containing dexamethasone; Group 2 received intraperitoneal implantation of controlled-release polymers containing dexamethasone; Group 3 received serial intraperitoneal injections of dexamethasone; and Group 4 received sham treatment. The animals were sacrificed 3 days after initiation of therapy and their brains were removed for measurement of the water content (edema) in the tumor-bearing and contralateral hemispheres. Brain and plasma samples were analyzed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography to determine the tissue and plasma concentrations of dexamethasone. Measurement of the release kinetics of dexamethasone from the ethylene-vinyl acetate polymers in an in vitro system showed that the drug was released in a controlled, tapering fashion. During the first 3 days of controlled release in vitro, 330 micrograms of a total content of 7.5 mg of dexamethasone was released into the medium. Analysis of tissue for drug levels demonstrated, however, that the interstitial delivery of this fractional amount of dexamethasone within the brain resulted in levels 19 times higher than those achieved by administering the full dose of 7.5 mg systemically over a 3-day period. Conversely, the systemic administration of dexamethasone resulted in plasma levels 16 times higher than those measured in the interstitial delivery of dexamethasone in the brain. Brain-water content determinations showed that the interstitial controlled release of the fractional amount of dexamethasone within the brain was as effective in controlling peritumoral edema as systemic administration of the full dose by serial intraperitoneal injections. The study demonstrates the following: 1) controlled-release polymeric carriers deliver biologically active dexamethasone in a sustained fashion; 2) very high concentrations of dexamethasone in brain tissue can be achieved using interstitial polymer-mediated drug delivery while minimizing plasma concentrations of this drug which are sometimes associated with serious systemic side effects; and 3) peritumoral brain edema can be effectively treated by the interstitial delivery of dexamethasone directly within the tumor bed. 
Effect of isradipine on factors affecting blood viscosity. The objective of the study was to investigate the effect of isradipine on red blood cell filtrability in 20 men with mild-to-moderate hypertension. In this prospective, double-blind study, parallel groups of hypertensive male patients were randomized to receive either isradipine (n = 11) or placebo (n = 9). An additional group of nine normotensive age-matched volunteers served as controls. Tests were performed before and after patients were treated with either isradipine or placebo. The hypertensive patients differed from the normotensive controls in having a higher level of fibrinogen (P less than .04), a higher hematocrit (P less than .001), a higher filtration rate (P less than .05; impaired red blood cell deformability), and a higher mean corpuscular volume (MCV; P less than .005). Treatment with isradipine lowered blood pressure and improved red blood cell filterability (P less than .05) compared with placebo. 
Clinical review 23: The use of the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide in the treatment of gut neuroendocrine tumors. The SRIF analog octreotide (SMS 201-995) has been in clinical use for over 6 yr in the treatment of acromegaly and metastatic endocrine pancreatic and carcinoid tumors. The use of the analog in the treatment of acromegaly and TSH-secreting tumors is beyond the scope of this clinical review. Patient acceptance of the analog, given chronically by the sc route, has been excellent and side effects have been few with the exception of the development of gallstones. In endocrine pancreatic and carcinoid tumors the hypersecretion of hormones such as VIP, glucagon, and gastrin and the secretory products of carcinoid tumors (e.g. 5-hydroxytryptamine and tachykinins) and their clinical effects may be successfully blocked. This allows excellent palliation of such tumors and often enables the patients to return home and lead normal social lives. Initial hopes that long-term octreotide therapy would be an effective antitumor drug, reducing tumor growth, based on experimental animal models and human tumor cell lines, have not been born out in clinical practice. A reduction in gut tumor bulk due to octreotide, rarely or never occurs as a sustained phenomenon. Eventually a decrease in, and finally an absence of, clinical effectiveness occurs despite the reintroduction of other treatment modalities. 
The neuropsychological sequelae of attempted hanging. Only one report on the neuropsychological sequelae of attempted hanging exists in the English language. Two cases of attempted hanging with subsequent isolated memory deficits are reported. Possible mechanisms for induction of this amnesia are discussed. In these two cases it is most likely that circulatory disturbance produced by the ligatures caused ischaemic hippocampal damage, which in turn led to amnesia. 
Neocortical damage during HIV infection. Clinical and pathological evidence of subcortical central nervous system (CNS) damage is observed commonly in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) encephalitis. Whether other CNS regions are also affected has not been well studied. We report neocortical damage in patients with HIV encephalitis. Using quantitative techniques, we demonstrate statistically significant thinning of the neocortex, with a loss of large cortical neurons. Qualitative and quantitative assessments of neocortical neuropil reveal a loss of synaptic density and vacuolation of dendritic processes. Failure to demonstrate an association of these changes with the presence of HIV antigens suggests that neocortical damage may be an indirect effect of HIV infection of the CNS. 
Nongynecologic somatic pathology in women with chronic pelvic pain and negative laparoscopy. One hundred eighty-three women with chronic pelvic pain were referred to a multidisciplinary chronic pelvic pain clinic after negative laparoscopy. One hundred twenty-two of them completed a thorough medical and psychologic evaluation and were followed for a minimum of six months after completion of therapy. Occult somatic pathology was diagnosed in 57 women (47%), including 19 in whom coexistent psychopathology was diagnosed. Myofascial pain was the most common somatic diagnosis, followed by atypical cyclic pain (dysmenorrhea or mittelschmerz); gastroenterologic, urologic and infectious diseases; and pelvic vascular congestion. No plausible somatic etiology was apparent in the remaining 65 (53%) of the 122 referrals. Nongynecologic somatic pathology accounted for 34 (29%) and gynecologic pathology for 23 (19%) of the referrals, only 6 (5%) of whom ultimately required hysterectomy. Women with a somatic diagnosis were found to be significantly older than the remainder of the referral population. Long-term symptomatic improvement or resolution of pain was obtained in 43 (75%) of the 57 patients with somatic diagnoses. Coexistent psychopathology was found to correlate with a poorer long-term prognosis. Our findings underscore the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to evaluating and treating chronic pelvic pain in women and confirm that hysterectomy is indicated in this setting only rarely. 
Selenium deficiency and cardiomyopathy in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Selenium deficiency is common in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and may contribute to the development of cardiomyopathy. A 5-year-old boy with congenital human immunodeficiency virus infection developed cardiomyopathy. Evaluation for reversible causes of cardiomyopathy was notable for the diagnosis of selenium deficiency. Cardiac function improved on selenium supplementation. The role of selenium in cardiac dysfunction and the need for nutritional evaluation and supplementation of malnourished patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is discussed. 
The long-term course after treatment of acute anterior cruciate ligament ruptures. A 9 to 16 year followup. Acute total ACL (N = 60) and concomitant medial collateral ligament (N = 46) ruptures were repaired in 60 patients (mean age, 28 years) without augmentation. Menisci were removed in 23 knees. Fifty-three (88%) of the patients were reexamined 9 to 16 years later with special emphasis on manual and instrumented stability testing (Stryker, Genucom), knee function score (Lysholm), and activity level (Tegner). Standing roentgenograms (30 degrees of knee flexion) were taken in 69% of the patients. At followup, an ACL reconstruction had been performed in seven patients (12%) due to symptomatic instability. Sixty-four percent of the knees had a positive Lachman sign and 40% a positive pivot shift. Sagittal laxity difference was +3 mm or more in 57%. Knee function score was a mean of 86 +/- 12 points. The mean activity level had changed from recreational team sports (Level 7) to recreational individual sports (Level 5). Only patients with good knee stability were able to perform demanding sports and could continue at their desired activity level. Osteoarthritis of slight to moderate degree (Fairbank I/II) was found in 58% of the patients younger than 35 years of age at the time of trauma and in 87% of the older patients. Knees with intact menisci had less osteoarthritis than knees with removed menisci (P less than 0.05). 
Light and electron microscopic studies on localization of myoglobin in skeletal muscle cells in neuromuscular diseases. The localizations of myoglobin in skeletal muscle cells of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), myotonic dystrophy (MyD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) were studied by immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. In normal skeletal muscle cells, myoglobin was localized mainly in the I-band region. In degenerating muscle cells of patients with DMD and MyD, myoglobin was also demonstrated in the distended lumen of the internal membrane system and in the intermyofibrillar space, through which it seemed to pass into the extracellular space. No myoglobin was detected in opaque fibers or in some of small-sized fibers in DMD muscle. In patients with ALS the staining intensities of myoglobin varied in different muscle cells, but myoglobin was restricted to the I-band region in many muscle cells. These findings suggest that changes in the localization of myoglobin in skeletal muscle cell sensitively reflect the pathologic status of muscle cells. 
Occurrence of a Tyr393----Asn (Y393N) mutation in the E1 alpha gene of the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex in maple syrup urine disease patients from a Mennonite population. Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is caused by a deficiency in the mitochondrial branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex. The incidence of MSUD in the Philadelphia Mennonites is 1/176 births resulting from consanguinity. In this study, we amplified cDNAs for the decarboxylase E1 alpha subunit of the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex from a classical MSUD patient and from an obligatory heterozygote of a Mennonite family by the PCR. Sequencing of the amplified cDNAs disclosed at codon 393 of the mature E1 alpha polypeptide a base substitution changing a tyrosine (encoded by TAC) to an asparagine residue (encoded by AAC), which is designated Y393N. A segment of the E1 alpha gene containing the 5' portion of exon 9 was amplified. Probing of the amplified genomic DNA with allele-specific oligonucleotide probes showed that the mutation in the E1 alpha gene was homozygous in six Mennonites affected with classical MSUD and was present in heterozygous carriers. The identification of the MSUD mutation in the Philadelphia Mennonites will facilitate diagnosis and carrier detection for this population. 
Major vascular complications of orthognathic surgery: false aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas following orthognathic surgery. False aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas are rare complications of orthognathic surgery. The vessel most commonly involved with false aneurysms following mandibular surgery is the internal maxillary artery, and this vessel, especially the sphenopalatine branch, may also be involved following maxillary surgery. An unusual factor in the presentation of false aneurysms following Le Fort I osteotomies is an initial episode of epistaxis occurring greater than 2 weeks postoperatively. Arteriovenous fistulas following orthognathic surgery are more apt to involve large vessels, especially the internal carotid artery. Embolization procedures are the treatment of choice for false aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas in the maxillofacial region following orthognathic surgery. 
Increased circulating colony-stimulating factor-1 in patients with preleukemia, leukemia, and lymphoid malignancies. Recently, several malignant cell types have been reported to express colony-stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1) transcripts; however, the clinical significance of CSF-1 in malignancy has not been investigated. Using a CSF-1 radioimmunoassay, we surveyed concentrations of biologically active CSF-1 in the peripheral blood of 316 patients with malignant and premalignant hematologic disorders; 75 had a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), 12 acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), 7 chronic myelogenous leukemia, 21 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 106 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL; of low-, intermediate- and high-grade malignancy), 46 Hodgkin's disease (HD), 46 multiple myeloma (MM), and 3 monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. Controls were 64 healthy subjects. The CSF-1 concentration was correlated with the type of disease, status of the disease, treatment status, and hematologic parameters. CSF-1 concentration was significantly elevated in 83.5% of the patients with active disease, and for each active disease group it was significantly greater (P less than .0001) than in the control. Thus, the high circulating CSF-1 concentration was not associated with a particular malignant phenotype or MDS subtype, but did correlate with the disease activity of both NHL and HD, and the tumor burden in MM, AML, and CLL. There was no correlation of the CSF-1 level with total counts of monocytes or neutrophils in patients with MDS or other malignancies. The cellular basis for the elevated circulating CSF-1 was not investigated. However, the results are consistent with the possibility that the premalignant or malignant cells themselves produce CSF-1 or regulate its production by normal cells. 
Geniculate neuralgia: the surgical management of primary otalgia. Intractable, unexplained deep-ear pain presents a rare, albeit significant problem in otolaryngological and neurosurgical practice. The authors review their experience with 18 cases of primary otalgia during the past 15 years. A total of 31 surgical procedures were performed. Seventeen patients had sequential rhizotomies and one patient had microvascular decompression alone. Based on the clinical diagnosis, the nerves sectioned were singly or in combination: the nervus intermedius (14 patients), geniculate ganglion (10 patients), ninth nerve (14 patients), 10th nerve (11 patients), tympanic nerve (four patients), and chorda tympani nerve (one patient). Microvascular decompression of the involved nerves was undertaken in nine patients, in whom vascular loops were discovered. Adhesions (six patients), thickened arachnoid (three patients), and benign osteoma (one patient) were other intraoperative abnormalities noted. The overall success of these procedures in providing pain relief was 72.2%, and the mean follow-up period was 3.3 years (range 1 month to 14.5 years). There was no surgical mortality. Expected side effects were: decreased lacrimation, salivation, and taste related to nervus intermedius nerve section, and transient hoarseness and diminished gag related to ninth and 10th nerve section. Four patients developed sequelae consisting of sensorineural hearing loss, vertigo, and transient facial nerve paresis. One patient had a cerebrospinal fluid leak and another developed aseptic meningitis as postoperative complications. Except when primary glossopharyngeal neuralgia is the working diagnosis, a combined posterior cranial fossa-middle cranial fossa approach is recommended for adequate exploration and/or section of the fifth, ninth, and 10th cranial nerves as well as the geniculate ganglion and nervus intermedius. 
Thymic tumorigenesis induced by overexpression of p56lck. The lck gene encodes a membrane-associated protein tyrosine kinase (p56lck) that is believed to participate in lymphocyte-specific signal transduction pathways. To investigate the function of this molecule, transgenic mice were generated carrying the wild-type lck gene or a mutated lck gene encoding a constitutively activated form of p56lck (p56lckF505). Transgene expression in thymocytes was achieved in each case using the lck proximal promoter element. Mice expressing high levels of either p56lckF505 or p56lckY505 reproducibly developed thymic tumors. The sensitivity of thymocytes to p56lck-induced transformation suggests that disturbances in lck expression may contribute to the pathogenesis of some human neoplastic diseases. 
Acute L-thyroxine overdose; therapy with sodium ipodate: evaluation of clinical and physiologic parameters. Two children with acute L-thyroxine overdose were treated with sodium ipodate, an oral cholecystographic agent. Initial thyroxine (T4) levels were elevated to 98.5 mcg/dL and 134.1 mcg/dL, with associated triiodothyroxine (T3) levels of 354 ng/dL and 402 ng/dL. T3 levels increased to a maximum of 662 ng/dL and 468 ng/dL. With administration of sodium ipodate, the T3 decreased with a simultaneous increase of rT3 level. Sodium ipodate effect lasted 72 hours. No toxic effect was noted. Interestingly, thyroid hormone levels correlated with systolic blood pressure but with no other physiologic parameter. Sodium ipodate appears to be a viable treatment modality for acute thyroid overdose in children. 
Early spontaneous hematoma in cerebral infarct: is primary cerebral hemorrhage overdiagnosed? We identified 15 patients (63 +/- 8 years) in whom CT showed no bleeding within 6 hours of stroke onset but showed ganglionic or lobar hemorrhage less than 18 hours later, without visible underlying infarct (early spontaneous intra-infarct hematoma [ESIH]). No patient had antithrombotic therapy or a coagulation disorder, but eight had hypertension. The second CT was prompted by rapid worsening (in 10) or because the first CT was not available (in five). Prior transient ischemic attacks, silent infarcts on CT, and a potential cardiac source of embolism were more common in patients with ESIH than in 200 patients with primary cerebral hemorrhage (PCH) admitted during the same period. Distal occlusions were present in four of five patients who underwent intracranial studies within the first 2 days. Most of these patients probably had embolism with early and extensive bleeding in the ischemic area. Our findings suggest that ESIH may be under-recognized, while PCH may be overdiagnosed. 
Testing for Helicobacter pylori in the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Infection with Helicobacter pylori is associated with almost all cases of peptic ulcer. Using Bayes' formula, we evaluated whether testing for H. pylori in a patient with proven ulcer might help in the work-up of a Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZE). A negative test for H. pylori in a patient with duodenal ulcer would raise a pretest probability for ZE of 10-20% to a posttest range of 61-78%. The information provided by a negative test result with respect to ZE is greater in younger than in older ulcer patients. It is also greater in duodenal than gastric ulcer. We conclude that testing for H. pylori in ulcer patients, in whom ZE constitutes a possible differential diagnosis, adds substantially to the decision making at relatively low cost and little additional risk to the patient. 
Cysts of the prostate and seminal vesicles: MR imaging findings in 11 cases. Cysts of the prostate and seminal vesicles are confusing abnormalities because they are uncommon and their origin is uncertain. Several approaches to diagnosis have been used, most recently CT and transrectal sonography. In this study, we investigated the value of MR imaging in the diagnosis of six cases of prostatic cyst and five cases of cysts of the seminal vesicles. All patients were symptomatic. T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo images were obtained in all cases; pathologic confirmation was available in four patients. MR images were analyzed prospectively without knowledge of clinical data or the results of other imaging procedures. In all cases, low- and high-signal masses were observed on T1- and T2-weighted images, respectively. The cysts were unilocular with a sharply defined margin, ranging from 0.5 to 3.0 cm in diameter. The thin wall was of low signal intensity on T2-weighted images. Our experience suggests that MR imaging is useful in demonstrating the liquid content of prostatic and seminal-vesicle cysts and in establishing their size and location. 
Elective intrahospital admissions versus acute interhospital transfers to a surgical intensive care unit: cost and outcome prediction. After a decade of intense fiscal scrutiny, appropriate utilization of intensive care resources remains controversial. In particular, the financial impact of patients transferred to a tertiary surgical intensive care unit (SICU) from a community hospital (interhospital) is unknown, especially when compared with elective (intrahospital) SICU admissions admitted from the tertiary center itself. We prospectively studied outcome and costs in 82 consecutive tertiary SICU admissions. Half were transferred acutely from community hospitals and half were transferred from within the hospital or postoperatively. Severity of illness (APACHE II) was scored on day 1, at the same time of the day (9:00-10:00 AM) and by one attending surgeon (BCB). Acute transfer patients had a significantly elevated mortality (36%) when compared with elective admissions (12%) (p less than 0.05). When stratified by APACHE II score, acute transfers had twice the mortality for equivalent APACHE II scores (p less than 0.05). Acute transfer patients with APACHE II scores greater than 19 had an 89% mortality; those nonsurvivors cost $128,652 each. From these results we conclude the following: (1) Acute transfer patients have a significantly elevated mortality when compared with elective intrahospital admissions with equivalent APACHE II day-1 scores; (2) patients transferred acutely to tertiary SICUs are significantly more costly, irrespective of outcome; (3) admission source (elective vs. acute transfer) should be seriously considered when evaluating patient outcome and cost in a SICU. 
Cortical blindness in children: a study of etiology and prognosis. Thirty-four children (20 boys, 14 girls) with congenital and acquired cortical blindness were analyzed for visual outcome in relation to etiology, visual evoked potentials, electroencephalography, and cranial computed tomography. All 7 children with congenital cortical blindness remained blind on subsequent examination. Of the 27 children with acquired blindness, 16 (59%) had poor visual outcome. Poor visual outcome occurred in those with cardiac arrest, hypoxia, status epilepticus, intracranial hemorrhage, cerebral thrombosis, and head trauma. Good visual outcome occurred in children with hypotensive episodes after cardiac surgery. Of the 12 children with recovery of vision, the interval from acute loss of vision to partial or total recovery was 2 weeks to 5 months. Seven children had complete recovery of vision with no residual visual field defect. The majority of children (87%) had focal or multifocal spike-and-waves and slow sharp-wave discharges on electroencephalography. None had photic recruitment response or occipital spike-and-wave discharges. Flash visual evoked potential studies performed during acute episodes of cortical blindness documented 11 with absent response, 10 with bilateral increases in latency, and 6 with normal responses. There was no correlation between normal visual evoked potentials and a good visual outcome. Only 2 of 6 children with normal responses had normal vision. Abnormal or absent responses are more predictive of a poor recovery of vision because only 3 of 21 (14%) had normal vision on subsequent examination. Abnormal electroencephalographic findings with focal or multifocal spike-and-wave discharges or cerebral atrophy on cranial computed tomography are also poor prognostic signs. 
A statewide early defibrillation initiative including laypersons and outcome reporting. Rapid delivery of defibrillatory shocks increases survival in patients with cardiac arrest. The automated external defibrillator interprets cardiac rhythms and delivers electrical shocks, permitting appropriate defibrillation by persons with minimal training. California initiated a program for early defibrillation by basic emergency medical technicians, using manual or automated external defibrillators, and by public safety personnel (fire fighters, peace officers, and public lifeguards), using automated external defibrillators. The program includes a system for reporting outcomes statewide. In the first 46 months under this program, 1487 patients received defibrillatory shocks; 1009 (68%) of these patients had witnessed ventricular fibrillation. Of the latter group, 191 were discharged from the hospital, representing 19% of those with witnessed ventricular fibrillation and 13% of all patients who had had shocks applied. California also implemented a framework of training and medical direction for defibrillation by laypersons using automated external defibrillators. Early defibrillation by basic emergency medical technicians and public safety personnel, encouraged by appropriate regulatory changes, results in gratifying survival rates. 
Fast neutron treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck: final report of Edinburgh randomised trial OBJECTIVE--To compare neutron treatment and megavoltage (photon) radiotherapy in locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. DESIGN--Randomised trial of patients stratified by site of primary tumour and presence or absence of lymph node metastases. Follow up of patients after treatment. SETTING--Department of clinical oncology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh. PATIENTS--165 Patients with untreated, histologically proved squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity, oropharynx, larynx, or hypopharynx. All patients completed treatment, and no patient was lost to follow up. INTERVENTION--Treatment with either neutrons or photons. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Disease state and morbidity (scored with the system of the European Organisation for Research on Treatment of Cancer) at each visit during follow up. RESULTS--Of the 165 patients, 85 were randomised to receive neutron treatment and 80 to receive photon treatment. Minimum follow up was five years. Local control of cancer remained similar in the two groups, being achieved in 37 (44%) patients after neutron treatment and 36 (45%) after photon treatment. Five year and actuarial 10 year survival rates were 24% (20/85) and 14% respectively in the group treated with neutrons and 34% (27/80) and 30% respectively in the group treated with photons. Five year survival rates without local disease were 19% (16/85) and 30% (24/80) respectively. Necrosis was more common after neutron treatment than after photon treatment. Seven patients in the neutron group who developed necrosis died whereas no deaths were associated with photon treatment. CONCLUSION--Rates of long term local control were similar in the two groups. Necrosis related to radiation was more common in patients treated with neutrons, and the mortality related to treatment was significantly higher in these patients. 
The role of the left ventricle in atrial natriuretic peptide secretion in acute mitral regurgitation. To examine the role of the ventricle in ANP secretion, the atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) concentration in the plasma, left atrial tissue and left ventricular tissue were observed in a canine during the course of experimental reversible mitral regurgitation (MR). For reversible MR, a basket catheter was inserted into the left atrium via the pulmonary vein and fixed at the mitral valve. The regurgitation arose when the tip basket wire was extended and disappeared immediately when it was closed. Left atrial pressure (LAP), right atrial pressure (RAP) and pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) increased significantly during MR, and decreased to the normal level after recovery from MR. Plasma ANP concentration showed a reversible change in correlation with LAP and RAP in each canine studied. The ANP level in the atrial and ventricular tissue decreased during MR, and the low levels were maintained after recovery from MR. Both the left arterial and left ventricular tissue ANP levels showed the same changes in acute MR. Therefore, it was suggested that normal ventricles might play a role in ANP secretion in acute MR. 
Spinal leptomeningeal metastasis from cerebral glioblastoma. Appearance on magnetic resonance imaging. A case of circumferential leptomeningeal metastasis to the spinal cord from an intracranial glioblastoma multiforme (spinal meningeal gliomatosis) is presented. The clinical, radiographic, and pathological features are described. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid accurately demonstrated the spread of disease when compared with autopsy findings. The value of spinal magnetic resonance imaging in patients with symptoms attributable to cerebrospinal fluid metastases is discussed. 
Alternatives to traditional first-line antihypertensive treatment: unresolved questions and therapeutic dilemmas. A personal approach. The best antihypertensive regimen for use in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension has not been determined. When nonpharmacological treatment of hypertension fails, initial drug treatment with diuretic drugs, sympatholytic agents (including beta-adrenergic receptor blockers), or vasodilators will result in satisfactory blood pressure control. However, each of these therapies has effects that are independent of their antihypertensive activity and that should be considered before a selection is made for initial therapy. The adverse effects of diuretic agents and beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking drugs on plasma lipid profiles may diminish the beneficial effects of blood pressure reduction. On the other hand, the hypocholesterolemic effect of alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists, the potential cardioprotective effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and the salutary effects of calcium channel blockers on left ventricular function are responses that would support the use of vasodilatory therapy. Vasodilating antihypertensive drugs may be more beneficial than "standard" therapy and should be considered for the initial treatment of newly diagnosed hypertensive patients. 
Abdominal pain in HIV infection. The causes of abdominal pain in patients with AIDS are different from those of the general population, and there are no guidelines as to which investigations are optimal. We reviewed our experience of 63 patients who presented with abdominal pain as the main reason for admission to the AIDS unit at St Stephen's and Westminster Hospital between January 1988 and January 1990. All patients were assessed within the same structured diagnostic programme. Thirty-five had upper abdominal pain, predominantly in the right upper quadrant in 27; seven had lower abdominal pain, which was concentrated in the right iliac fossa in three; 21 had diffuse abdominal pain. The causes of pain were determined satisfactorily in the majority of patients using routine gastroenterological investigations. The predominant site of pain had considerable predictive value in the diagnosis. The commonest cause of right upper quadrant pain was sclerosing cholangitis (17 of 27); endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography was necessary for a confident diagnosis. Diarrhoea was frequently associated (15 of 21) with diffuse abdominal pain; the commonest cause (six of 21) was cytomegalovirus colitis. Neoplasia was the cause of abdominal pain in eight patients. The other causes of abdominal pain and the utility of various investigations are discussed. An investigatory route which may provide maximum information has been suggested. 
Attenuated carotid body hypoxic sensitivity after prolonged hypoxic exposure. Prolonged exposure to hypoxia is accompanied by decreased hypoxic ventilatory response (HVR), but the relative importance of peripheral and central mechanisms of this hypoxic desensitization remain unclear. To determine whether the hypoxic sensitivity of peripheral chemoreceptors decreases during chronic hypoxia, we measured ventilatory and carotid sinus nerve (CSN) responses to isocapnic hypoxia in five cats exposed to simulated altitude of 5,500 m (barometric pressure 375 Torr) for 3-4 wk. Exposure to 3-4 wk of hypobaric hypoxia produced a decrease in HVR, measured as the shape parameter A in cats both awake (from 53.9 +/- 10.1 to 14.8 +/- 1.8; P less than 0.05) and anesthetized (from 50.2 +/- 8.2 to 8.5 +/- 1.8; P less than 0.05). Sustained hypoxic exposure decreased end-tidal CO2 tension (PETCO2, 33.3 +/- 1.2 to 28.1 +/- 1.3 Torr) during room-air breathing in awake cats. To determine whether hypocapnia contributed to the observed depression in HVR, we also measured eucapnic HVR (PETCO2 33.3 +/- 0.9 Torr) and found that HVR after hypoxic exposure remained lower than preexposed value (A = 17.4 +/- 4.2 vs. 53.9 +/- 10.1 in awake cats; P less than 0.05). A control group (n = 5) was selected for hypoxic ventilatory response matched to the baseline measurements of the experimental group. The decreased HVR after hypoxic exposure was associated with a parallel decrease in the carotid body response to hypoxia (A = 20.6 +/- 4.8) compared with that of control cats (A = 46.9 +/- 6.3; P less than 0.05). 
Anatomic correction of transposition of the great arteries with ventricular septal defect. Experience with 118 cases. One hundred eighteen patients, 100 with transposition of the great arteries plus ventricular septal defect and 18 with double-outlet right ventricle and subpulmonary ventricular septal defect have undergone arterial switch and patch closure of the ventricular septal defect since February 1983. In transposition of the great arteries the ventricular septal defect was perimembranous in 70 cases, trabecular in 28, and infundibular in 10. Eleven patients had multiple ventricular septal defects. In addition to 18 patients with double-outlet right ventricle, malalignment of the conal septum was present in 19 cases. Coronary type A distribution was recognized in 79 cases, type C in one, type D in 24, and type E in 14. Great arteries were side by side in 19% of cases. Aortic coarctation was present in 31 cases, and subaortic obstruction in 9. Age at operation ranged from 4 days to 4 years (mean, 3.5 +/- 8.3 months), and mean weight was 4.0 +/- 1.6 kg. Thirty-seven infants were younger than age 1 month. Thirty-six patients underwent previous operations: pulmonary artery banding alone (n = 13), pulmonary artery banding and coarctation repair (n = 13), and coarctation repair alone (n = 10). Mean time between the first procedure and the switch was 2.2 months. Six patients with aortic coarctation underwent one-stage repair, through median sternotomy, aortic reconstruction, closure of the ventricular septal defect, and arterial switch. Perioperative mortality was 13.5% (70% confidence limit 10% to 17.6%, n = 16). It was directly related to coronary artery kinking in 50% of deaths and to anatomy and size discrepancy of the great arteries in the remaining deaths. Univariate analysis could not find any significant risk factor of in-hospital mortality. Mean follow-up of 30.3 +/- 23.5 months was achieved in all but 2 survivors. There was one late death. Ten patients underwent 11 reoperations for recoarctation (n = 1), pulmonary stenosis (n = 7), residual ventricular septal defect (n = 2), and stenosis of superior vena cava (n = 1). Two patients needed a permanent pacemaker. Actuarial survival and freedom from reoperation at 5 years were 84.5% +/- 3.6% and 85.7% +/- 4.6%, respectively. We conclude that anatomic correction of complex transposition is a safe method that offers good early and midterm results. 
Independent prognostic factors in patients with metastatic (stage D2) prostate cancer. The Zoladex Study Group The independent prognostic factors affecting survival were assessed in 240 men undergoing treatment for metastatic prostate cancer as part of a randomized clinical trial comparing the gonadotropin releasing hormone analogue Zoladex (goserelin acetate implant) with castration. In a multivariate analysis, the most highly significant predictors were the presence or absence of bone pain, serum testosterone levels, serum alkaline phosphatase levels, and performance status. Patients with all four factors favorable for survival had a 2-year survival rate of 84% as compared with only 8% for patients with none of the four factors favorable for survival. No other factors were significant. A separate analysis of serum testosterone levels revealed that the higher the pretreatment serum testosterone level, the greater the survival rate. Compared with patients with serum testosterone levels less than 6.9 nmol/L, significant differences in survival were observed for patients with serum testosterone levels of 10.4 to 13.9, 13.9 to 17.3, and over 17.3 nmol/L. These results have important implications for the design and analysis of future clinical trials of hormone therapy and for counseling patients regarding the short-term prognosis of their disease. 
Acute effect of indoor exposure to paint containing bis(tributyltin) oxide--Wisconsin, 1991. In January 1991, a woman in Wisconsin contacted her local public health department to report that she and her two children had become ill after her landlord painted the walls and ceilings of two rooms of her apartment. Reported symptoms included a burning sensation in the nose and forehead, headache, nose bleed, cough, loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting. The woman, who was in the third trimester of pregnancy, also complained of a persistent odor from the paint and provided an empty bottle of a paint additive used for mildew control. The label indicated that this product contained 25% bis(tributyltin) oxide (TBTO) as its only active ingredient. 
An in-depth study of long-term users of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). Implications for clinical use of TENS. This in-depth study examines the relationships between patient, stimulator and outcome variables in a large number of chronic pain patients utilising TENS on a long-term basis. 179 patients completed a TENS questionnaire designed to record age, sex, cause and site of pain and TENS treatment regime. Of these 179 patients, 107 attended our research unit for assessment of the electrical characteristics of TENS during self-administered treatment. Although a remarkable lack of correlation between patient, stimulator and outcome variables was found to exist, the analysis revealed much information of importance: 47% of patients found TENS reduced their pain by more than half; TENS analgesia was rapid both in onset (less than 0.5 h in 75% patients) and in offset (less than 0.5 h in 51% patients); one-third of patients utilised TENS for over 61 h/week; pulse frequencies between 1 and 70 Hz were utilised by 75% of patients; 44% of patients benefitted from burst mode stimulation. The clinical implications of these findings are discussed. 
Myxoma of the external auditory meatus. A case of myxoma of the external auditory meatus is described. The patient presented with a recurring tumour which had not been correctly diagnosed although the growth had been removed ten times over a period of two years. The tumour was skin covered, contained gelatinous material and was attached to the tympanic membrane and anterior canal wall. Following recognition of the tumour as myxoma, removal was performed with sufficiently wide margins and there has been no recurrence during follow-up for one year. 
Intraocular tumor from disseminated histoplasmosis [published erratum appears in South Med J 1991 Aug;84(8):952] We identified and treated a solid, growing fungal tumor mass in a patient with disseminated histoplasmosis. Although the most commonly reported intraocular lesions from disseminated histoplasmosis are areas of inactive chorioretinal scars or areas of localized subretinal neovascular membrane formation, a focus of active fungal growth needs to be ruled out in all such cases. When a solid tumor mass is identified, the most effective way of preserving vision is with systemic antifungal therapy. 
Mucosal dysplasia and DNA content in ulcerative colitis patients with ileorectal anastomosis. Follow-up study in a defined patient group. In a follow-up study of an epidemiologically defined patient group comprising 1,274 patients with ulcerative colitis diagnosed in Stockholm County during 1955-1979, 55 patients had undergone colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA). Nine of these were found to have Crohn's disease after histopathologic review of the colectomy specimens. Of the 46 patients with ulcerative colitis remaining for evaluation, two died postoperatively. Twenty-five patients were subsequently reoperated with rectal excision owing to intractable inflammatory activity (n = 22, one postoperative death) or owing to dysplasia (n = 3). Of 19 patients with their IRA still intact at time of follow-up, 15 patients (median disease duration 23 years) had a flexible sigmoidoscopy with multiple biopsies performed. The average length of the remaining rectum and sigmoid colon was 26 cm. No patient had findings of dysplasia, carcinoma, or DNA aneuploidy. None of the four remaining patients had developed dysplasia or carcinoma at the time of the latest regular rigid sigmoidoscopy. The risk of malignant transformation in this selected group of patients with ulcerative colitis operated upon with colectomy and IRA derived from an epidemiologically defined population seems to be low. 
Spontaneous abdominal arteriovenous fistulae: report of eight cases and review of the literature. The spontaneous rupture of an abdominal aneurysm into an adjacent major vein results in a profound and rapidly worsening haemodynamic disturbance. Survival depends on prompt diagnosis and closure of the fistula at operation. Eight cases are reported and modes of presentation, diagnostic criteria and management principles are reviewed in a detailed analysis of 148 cases in the English literature. 
Total hip replacement with cemented, uncemented, and hybrid prostheses. A comparison of clinical and radiographic results at two to four years. One hundred and thirty-one patients who had 144 cemented or uncemented hip prostheses were followed prospectively for two to four years. A cemented or a hybrid prosthesis (consisting of a cemented femoral component and an uncemented acetabular component) was used in men older than seventy years, in women older than sixty years, and in younger patients in whom adequate initial fixation could not be obtained without cement. Uncemented, porous-surfaced implants were used in all other patients. The over-all clinical results were similar for the three groups. For the fifty-two hips that had a cemented prosthesis, the mean total Harris hip rating was 91 points and the score for pain, 42 points; for the twenty-seven hips that had a hybrid prosthesis, 90 and 43 points; and for the sixty-five hips that had an implant allowing ingrowth of bone in both the acetabulum and the femur, 95 and 43 points. Two prosthetic stems that were designed to allow ingrowth of bone had aseptic loosening; one was revised. Pain in the thigh, usually slight and not disabling, occurred at one year in 24 per cent of the patients in whom a femoral component allowing ingrowth had been used; the prevalence of pain then declined. The incidences of migration of the components and of radiolucent lines were greater in the acetabula that had a cemented component than in those that had a cup allowing ingrowth of bone. 
Rare intrathoracic complications in acute pancreatitis. Ascites and pleural effusions may complicate pancreatitis but pericarditis with pericardial effusion and tamponade is rare and necrosis of mediastinal fat has not been described before. All these complications occurred in the case reported here. 
Stones and infection in renal caliceal diverticula: treatment with percutaneous procedures. Percutaneous treatment of symptomatic caliceal diverticula has expanded the application of uroradiologic intervention. To assess the safety and efficacy of these procedures, we have reviewed our experience with percutaneous management of 12 symptomatic caliceal diverticula, 10 with stones and two infected. Nine stone-bearing diverticula were punctured directly with subsequent tract dilatation, nephroscopic stone extraction, and cavity obliteration (six with fulguration and drainage and three with drainage alone). One case was approached indirectly by puncturing a distant calix, dilating the diverticular neck, and flushing the stones into the collecting system for extraction. This cavity was not treated. Two infected diverticula were punctured directly for drainage and obliteration (one by fulguration and one by tetracycline sclerosis). Complete stone extractions were accomplished in all 10 cases. In eight with clinical follow-up ranging from 4 months to 6 years, one stone has recurred and seven patients are asymptomatic. Follow-up urograms were available in eight of 10 patients in whom cavity obliteration was attempted; in six (75%) of eight, nonvisualization of the diverticulum indicated successful obliteration. Only one major complication (urinoma requiring drainage) occurred. We conclude that percutaneous procedures are safe and effective in treating infected or stone-bearing caliceal diverticula. Direct diverticular puncture for access and diverticular fulguration for cavity obliteration is our preferred technique. 
Staged sequential flap reconstruction for large lower lip defects. A method for the reconstruction of total or nearly total defects of the lower lip is described that utilizes a staged sequence of flaps that are familiar to most plastic surgeons. The recommended sequence is an extended Karapandzic flap to reestablish the oral sphincter, then two sequential Abbe flaps from the upper lip to restore balance and augment the central lower lip, and finally a commissureplasty using a sliding myomucosal flap in conjunction with final revision of the scars. Intervals of 3 weeks separate the surgical procedures. Using this strategy, essentially normal lip function and a relatively normal appearance have been obtained in four patients with large lip defects. 
Correlation of the Papanicolaou smear and human papillomavirus type in women with biopsy-proven cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions. The authors correlated Papanicolaou smear diagnoses with the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) as determined by in situ hybridization in concurrent biopsy-proven cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions (SILs) in 132 women. Infection by HPV 6 or 11 was associated with a simultaneous normal Papanicolaou smear in 4 of 29 (14%) cases. This result was significantly greater (P less than 0.05) than that found in cases of infection by an oncogenic HPV type (types 16, 31, 33, 35, and others), in which the rate of a concurrent normal Papanicolaou smear was 5 of 88 (5%). Infection by one of these oncogenic types was associated with a Papanicolaou smear diagnostic of SIL in 55 of 88 (63%) cases, whereas infection by HPV 6 or 11 was associated with a Papanicolaou smear diagnostic of SIL significantly (P less than 0.05) less frequently (6 of 29, 18%). It is concluded that, for women with SILs, the likelihood of a Papanicolaou smear diagnostic of the lesion is greater for women with HPV types of known oncogenic potential. 
Decreased serum interleukin-2 level in patients with chronic headache. Some cellular immune functions are impaired in cluster headache patients. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a polypeptide secreted by antigen or mitogen-actuated T lymphocytes that functions as a growth factor for T cells. To investigate cellular immune functions in patients with chronic headache, we measured the IL-2 concentration of sera in patients with migraine and in patients with tension-type headache. Thirteen subjects suffering from migraine without aura (5 males and 8 females, mean age: 32.8 years) and 46 subjects (20 males and 26 females, mean age: 39.7 years) with tension-type headache (TH) were selected for this study. Forty-three normal healthy volunteers composed the control group (15 males and 28 females, average age 41.6 years). The IL-2 levels of sera were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) techniques. The IL-2 levels of sera were 3.18 +/- 1.8 U/ml (mean +/- SD) in the healthy controls, 2.29 +/- 2.6 U/ml in the patients with migraine and 1.59 +/- 1.0 U/ml in the patients with TH. The serum level of IL-2 in the patients with migraine was significantly lower than in the controls. The serum level of IL-2 in the patients with TH was significantly lower than in the controls. The central nervous system (CNS) has been considered to be involved in the development of the immune phenomena. In the patients with TH or migraine, reduction in platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels and sympathetic hypofunction have been observed. These phenomena might reflect decrease in 5-HT levels in CNS in the patients with TH or migraine. The decreased serum IL-2 level, observed in this study, might reflect a reduction in 5-HT or catecholamine levels in CNS in the patients with migraine or TH. 
Lowering of HDL2-cholesterol and lipoprotein A-I particle levels by increasing the ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids. The protective role of high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) has been attributed to the subfractions HDL2 (according to the density) and lipoprotein A-I (LpA-I) (according to the composition in apolipoproteins). We investigated the effect of a high ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids (P:S) on these subfractions in a homogeneous group of young adult males. Two prescribed diets were consumed successively at the subjects' homes for 3 wk each in a random order; one diet contained 70 g butter (P:S 0.2, diet B), the other contained 70 g sunflower margarine (P:S 1.1, diet M). Total calorie, fat, and cholesterol intakes were similar for the two diets. Cholesterol and apolipoprotein B in serum and in low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) were lower with diet M than with diet B. However, significant decreases in protective subfractions of HDL, HDL2, and LpA-I were observed. This undesirable effect of the diet with a high P:S could cancel the benefits of lowering the LDL-cholesterol concentrations. 
Current indications, risks, and outcome after pericardiectomy. A retrospective analysis of the records of 60 patients who underwent pericardiectomy over a 10-year period (1980 to 1990) at The Johns Hopkins Hospital was performed. Indications for operation were effusive disease in 24 patients and constriction in 36 patients. Six patients (10%) with pericardial effusion had pain as the primary symptom necessitating intervention. The operative approach for pericardiectomy was median sternotomy in 52 patients (4 patients required cardiopulmonary bypass) and left anterior thoracotomy in 8 patients. Nine patients (5 with constriction and 4 with effusion) with a prior limited pericardial procedure required formal pericardiectomy. The operative mortality rate for pericardial effusion and constriction was 4.2% and 5.6%, respectively. Follow-up (median follow-up, 56.9 +/- 38.2 months) was obtained on 56 patients (93.3%). Actuarial survival at 1 year, 5 years, and 10 years for all patients was 82.1% +/- 5.1%, 71.7% +/- 6.7%, and 59.8% +/- 12.2%, respectively. A Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was performed using 20 clinical variables. A history of malignancy, previous pericardial procedure, and preoperative New York Heart Association class IV were found to be predictors of poor survival. All patients who underwent operation primarily for effusion with associated pain are alive and have improved functional capacity without steroid use. We conclude that pericardiectomy can be performed with low mortality and can result in good long-term survival and improved functional capacity. Patients who are seen primarily with pain refractory to steroid therapy can be relieved of symptoms with operation. 
Monotherapy with nilutamide, a pure nonsteroidal antiandrogen, in untreated patients with metastatic carcinoma of the prostate. The Italian Prostatic Cancer Project. A total of 26 previously untreated patients with metastatic carcinoma of the prostate received the pure nonsteroidal antiandrogen nilutamide as a single agent. Objective response rate was 38.5 +/- 18.7% (95% confidence interval). Median progression-free survival and median survival were 9 and 23 months, respectively. Of 13 patients with progression on antiandrogen 5 showed an additional objective response to a second-line endocrine treatment. The drug was generally well tolerated, except for 2 patients who discontinued treatment because of moderate gastrointestinal symptoms. Approximately a third of the patients complained of decreased adaptation to darkness. An electroretinogram and dark adaptation test revealed the presence of functional damage and visual complaints reversed in all patients on cessation of therapy. The other most frequent side effects were slight nausea (26.9% of the patients) and alcohol intolerance (19.2%). A nonsignificant increase in testosterone levels was shown within 1 month of treatment, after which the levels remained stable. Approximately half of the sexually active men claimed maintenance of libido and sexual potency during treatment. A slightly significant increase in hemoglobin was observed during the long term, suggesting the occurrence of a trophic effect by androgens on erythropoiesis. The results indicate that nilutamide as a single agent has an acceptable toxicity and a moderate activity, and may maintain sexual interest in a discrete number of cases. Whether monotherapy with nonsteroidal antiandrogens offers a valid option in the palliation of advanced disease remains to be seen in comparative prospective trials. 
Autonomic dysfunction in alcoholic cirrhosis: relationship to indicators of synthetic activation and the occurrence of renal sodium retention. We investigated the occurrence of alcoholic autonomic dysfunction in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis in order to define its prevalence and relationship to renal sodium retention. Forty-seven alcoholics and 16 age-matched normal subjects were evaluated. Thirty-seven patients had liver disease (13 with and 24 without ascites), and 10 patients had normal hepatic function. Autonomic nervous system function was ascertained by skin sudomotor responses and the response of blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine concentration to upright tilt (sympathetic nervous system function), and by heart rate responses to deep breathing, Valsalva maneuver, and upright tilt (parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous system function). Heart rate responses to deep breathing and Valsalva maneuver were diminished, and skin sudomotor responses were significantly worse, in alcoholics than in control subjects. Alcoholic patients also had significantly lower supine mean arterial pressure (93 +/- 10 vs. 116 +/- 8 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.0001), and significantly greater increases in arterial pressure during passive upright tilt, than control subjects (mean increase 6.5 +/- 6.6 vs. 0.1 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, p = 0.0003). All of these findings were present to similar degrees in patients with and without liver disease and in cirrhotic patients with and without ascites. Supine heart rates, however, differed among the groups evaluated. Heart rate was significantly greater in patients with cirrhosis than in alcoholic patients without liver disease (83 +/- 11 vs. 71 +/- 13 bpm, p = 0.006), and in patients with ascites than in patients without ascites (88 +/- 12 vs. 80 +/- 10 bpm, p = 0.04). Plasma norepinephrine concentration was elevated in most patients with cirrhosis and was significantly higher in patients with ascites than in patients without ascites (789 +/- 238 vs. 388 +/- 185 pg/ml, p less than 0.0001; nl range: 65-320 pg/ml). Autonomic nervous system function is similarly impaired in alcoholics with and without liver disease. Patients with cirrhosis also have increased heart rate and elevated plasma norepinephrine concentration, abnormalities that are most pronounced in patients with sodium retention. Their is uncertainty as to the stimulus for norepinephrine release, and its source, in these patients. However, the similarity of supine blood pressure in patients with and without ascites and the occurrence of orthostatic hypertension rather than orthostatic hypotension following upright tilt suggest that arterial underfilling is not responsible. 
A randomized placebo-controlled trial of combined early intravenous captopril and recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator therapy in acute myocardial infarction. The adjunctive use of intravenous captopril with tissue plasminogen activator early during acute myocardial infarction offers theoretic advantages of diminishing left ventricular volume, preventing ventricular dilation and improving patient survival. To test the safety and efficacy of combined early administration of intravenous captopril and recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), 38 patients treated with rt-PA 3 +/- 0.3 h (mean +/- SE) after the onset of myocardial infarction were randomized to intravenous followed by oral captopril or placebo therapy. They underwent cardiac catheterization with measurement of hemodynamic variables and left ventricular function and determination of serum renin, angiotensin and aldosterone levels on days 1 and 7. Oral administration of the selected agent was continued for 3 months along with other antianginal medications, including nonangiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor vasodilators. Repeat measurements of left ventricular function were obtained before hospital discharge and at 3 months. There were no significant differences in baseline clinical characteristics between groups. One patient in the captopril-treated group became hypotensive during intravenous therapy, requiring discontinuation of treatment. Compared with the placebo-treated group, the captopril-treated group had significant reductions at day 7 in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (22.5 +/- 1.5 versus 16.3 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and mean systemic arterial pressure (93.6 +/- 3.3 versus 86.2 +/- 2.7 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). 
Uniparental paternal disomy in a genetic cancer-predisposing syndrome The 11p15.5 region of human chromosome 11 seems to contain a locus or loci involved in congenital overgrowth anomalies as well as in the genesis of many tumours associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS). Given the unusual differential parental allele involvement in the different aetiological forms of BWS and the loss of maternal alleles in associated tumours, we have now used 11p15.5 markers to determine the parental origin of chromosome 11 in eight sporadic cases of BWS. Probands in three informative families had uniparental paternal disomy for region 11p15.5. Further, an overall greatly increased frequency of homozygosity for several 11p15.5 markers in 21 sporadic BWS patients suggests that isodisomy probably accounts for an even higher proportion of BWS sporadic cases. This demonstrates that uniparental paternal disomy can be associated with a genetic cancer-predisposing syndrome. 
Radiation therapy for aggressive fibromatosis. The Experience at the University of Florida. Twenty-nine patients (thirty sites) who had histologically confirmed aggressive fibromatosis were treated with radical courses of radiation at the University of Florida between March 1975 and February 1986. The minimum length of follow-up was two years; 76 per cent of the patients were followed for more than five years. Twenty-seven sites received doses of at least 5000 centigrays (one centigray equals one rad). Twelve patients were treated twice a day. Fourteen sites were treated with radiation postoperatively for known or presumed microscopic quantities of residual aggressive fibromatosis; in eleven, the disease was locally controlled. Sixteen sites were treated postoperatively for known grossly apparent residual disease; in fourteen, the disease was locally controlled. Over-all, aggressive fibromatosis was controlled in twenty-five (83 per cent) of the thirty sites. The six-year actuarial rate of local control was 79 per cent. The five local recurrences occurred at four, eleven, thirty-four, sixty-one, and sixty-eight months after the initiation of radiation therapy. Two of the five failures occurred in the high-dose radiation field in patients who were treated for grossly apparent disease. The remaining three failures occurred at the margin of the irradiated field in patients who were treated for assumed microscopic quantities of residual disease. There was no apparent difference in local control between patients who were treated for primary (previously untreated) aggressive fibromatosis and those who were treated after one or more recurrences. Comparison of the results of radiation therapy with published data on operative treatment shows that local control substantially improves with postoperative radiation therapy when operative margins are less than wide. 
Management of lipoprotein-X accumulation in severe cholestasis by semi-selective LDL-apheresis. Liver disorders characterized by prolonged bile stasis are often associated with the accumulation of an abnormal lipoprotein, lipoprotein-X (LP-X), in plasma. LP-X is separated in the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) density range, but lacks apolipoprotein B and does not interact with the LDL receptor; LP-X can cause hyperlipidemia, cutaneous xanthomas, and worsening of arterial disease. We report the case of a patient with severe cholestasis, markedly elevated plasma cholesterol levels (26.8 to 31.5 mmol/L), mainly due to a massive accumulation of LP-X in plasma, and diffuse xanthomas. To reduce the elevated cholesterol levels, the patient was given extracorporeal treatment aimed at removing atherogenic lipoprotein (LDL-apheresis). LDL-apheresis was performed at weekly or bi-weekly intervals, either by a semi-selective technique using filters with a defined pore diameter (double filtration, DF) or by a more selective technique using dextran-sulfate-cellulose (DSC) columns able to bind LDL. The semi-selective DF technique proved more effective than DSC, removing 48% of total cholesterol (compared to 30% with DSC), and lowering cholesterol levels to 11.1 mmol/L in 6 weeks. DF removed both LDL and LP-X from plasma, whereas DSC selectively decreased the LDL content. The reduction of plasma cholesterol levels was associated with a complete regression of the xanthomas, supporting DF apheresis as a first-choice treatment for patients with massive LP-X accumulation due to cholestasis. 
Isoflurane impairs the function of ischemic myocardium in acutely but not in chronically instrumented dogs. To compare the effects of isoflurane on ischemic myocardium in acutely and chronically instrumented animals, 12 mongrel dogs were monitored with electromagnetic or Doppler ultrasonic flow transducers and hydraulic occluders around the left circumflex coronary artery, pressure transducers in the left ventricle, and heparin-filled catheters in the descending aorta. Regional function of normal and ischemic myocardium was assessed by sonomicrometry. The hemodynamic effects of isoflurane (2% inspired concentration) were more pronounced in the acutely than in the chronically instrumented dogs. Decreases in mean arterial pressure (-47% +/- 5% in the acute and -22% +/- 4% in the chronic preparation, P less than 0.01), left ventricular contractility (-51% +/- 6% and -33% +/- 4%, P less than 0.01), and coronary perfusion pressure (-59% +/- 6% and -12% +/- 9%, P less than 0.01) were more distinct in the acutely instrumented animals. Although the reduction of regional function during isoflurane anesthesia was similar in normal myocardium in both preparations (-33% +/- 4% acute and -34% +/- 6% chronic preparation, not a significant difference), an exaggerated dysfunction was observed in the ischemic myocardium of the acutely instrumented dogs (-66% +/- 2% and -30% +/- 4%, P less than 0.01). It is concluded that acutely instrumented dogs respond to the hemodynamic effects of isoflurane, resulting in ischemic myocardial dysfunction, significantly more than do chronically instrumented dogs. 
Intra-arterial streptokinase infusion in acute lower limb ischaemia. Between 1986 and 1988, 38 patients (29 men and nine women), median age 65 years (range 38-85 years), underwent local intra-arterial streptokinase therapy for acute lower limb ischaemia. Three patient groups were identified: 15 with acute on chronic ischaemia (group 1), 12 postangioplasty (group 2) and 11 postfemorodistal bypass (group 3). Distal arteriographic run-off was a significant discriminant between success and failure in group 1 (n = 15, chi 2 = 11.5, P = 0.001) and in the overall group (n = 38, chi 2 = 17.2, P less than 0.001). In group 2, four patients with good run-off had an unsuccessful outcome; this was due in all cases to technical problems (haemorrhage in two and intimal dissection in two). In group 3, two patients with good run-off had unsuccessful streptokinase infusions. In both cases the graft failed in the early postoperative period (less than 30 days). By contrast, the four patients whose grafts occluded after 30 days had successful streptokinase infusions and long-term graft patency was achieved by further surgery and balloon dilatation. In all groups, no patient with a poor run-off had a successful outcome following streptokinase administration. The role of local intra-arterial streptokinase therapy in the critically ischaemic limb remains controversial, but these results suggest that an adequate run-off is an important factor in the selection of patients for treatment. 
Lateral thoracotomy for the automatic implantable defibrillator. In 51 patients who required automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation without additional cardiac procedures, the lead system was implanted using a lateral thoracotomy approach, with complete muscle sparing in the last 24 patients. Exposure was excellent and allowed repositioning of leads for optimal defibrillation thresholds in 18 patients. Five of 19 patients who had previously undergone intrapericardial procedures required intrapericardial dissection for lead placement to provide satisfactory defibrillation thresholds. There were no intraoperative deaths or infarctions. The 30-day mortality rate of 3.9% was comparable with those in other series, and the use of muscle-sparing techniques and supplemental epidural anesthesia prevented pulmonary complications or the need for prolonged ventilatory support. We favor a muscle-sparing lateral thoracotomy incision for automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator insertion, particularly in patients with a history of previous intrapericardial procedures. 
Exertional sudden death in soldiers. To address the problem of a significant rise in the incidence of exertional sudden death worldwide, the medical records and necropsy reports of all deaths that occurred in the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) during 1974-1986 were scrutinized. Twenty male soldiers, aged 18-29 yr, died suddenly and unexpectedly within 24 h of strenuous exercise. Necropsy results, available for 90% of the subjects, included underlying cardiac disease in 50% and noncardiac causes of death in 33.3%; the cause of death was unidentifiable in 16.7% of the subjects. Prodromal symptoms in 70% of the subjects are presented as a main focus of this investigation. The most frequently reported symptom was exertional or nonexertional syncope in 40% of the subjects. Chest pain, acute gastrointestinal symptoms, or febrile disease were reported in 30% of the cases. The findings of this research suggest that syncope is a major antecedent symptom of exertional sudden death. An attack of syncope in young conditioned individuals should be followed by thorough medical surveillance, and strenuous exercise should be avoided until this procedure is completed. Sports and military officials have the obligation to promote awareness that strenuous exercise should not be performed in the presence of acute gastrointestinal symptoms or febrile illness. 
Perinatal cocaine effects on neonatal stress behavior and performance on the Brazelton Scale. Fifty-two newborns were assessed for the effects of maternal cocaine use on their performance on the Brazelton Neonatal Behavior Assessment Scale and on their stress behaviors during the Brazelton as tapped by the Neonatal Stress Scale. The cocaine-exposed newborns experienced more obstetric complications, had smaller head circumferences, showed more limited habituation abilities on the Brazelton Scale, and exhibited more stress behaviors than control newborns. 
Gallstones in children. Characterization by age, etiology, and outcome. Fifty children and adolescents were found to have gallstones at Children's Hospital of Buffalo (NY) during a period of 10 years. The mean (+/- SD) age was 12.2 +/- 6.2 years, with 21 boys and 29 girls. The majority of patients could be categorized into four groups: hemolytic disease (18 patients), parenteral nutrition (eight patients), adolescent pregnancy (seven patients), and idiopathic (10 patients), while seven patients had a variety of other etiologies. Right upper quadrant pain was the most common symptom (32 patients), followed by jaundice (15 patients), vomiting (13 patients), and nonspecific abdominal complaints (13 patients). Ten patients presented with jaundice and underlying hemolytic disease; seven patients were asymptomatic. Clinical presentation was found to vary with age and factors associated with the development of gallstones. Ultrasonography was the mode of diagnosis in 48 patients. Cholecystectomy was performed in 36 patients. In contrast to gallstones in adults, after exclusion of the patients with adolescent pregnancy, there was no female predominance. Pancreatitis was the most common complication, occurring in 8% of the patients; cholecystitis and cholangitis were absent. 
Preoperative evaluation of osteosarcoma: value of gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging. Decisions regarding the surgical approach in osteosarcoma require accurate assessment of tumor extent. In order to determine whether enhancement with gadopentetate dimeglumine could add clinically significant information to that available with unenhanced MR imaging, 21 patients with osteosarcoma underwent preoperative MR imaging. T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo MR images obtained before and after administration of IV gadopentetate dimeglumine were evaluated to determine the conspicuity of marrow and soft-tissue extent of tumor, including tumor involvement of major neurovascular bundles and adjacent joints. MR results were correlated with tumor margins found at surgery. In some instances, use of gadopentetate dimeglumine obscured differentiation of tumor from normal marrow or tumor infiltration into perineurovascular fat, and tumor extension through pseudocapsule could not be differentiated from peritumoral edema after contrast administration. Contrast enhancement did assist in differentiation of intraarticular tumor from effusion; however, synovial invasion could be identified on unenhanced T1-weighted images by loss of synovial fat and cortical disruption. These results indicate that gadopentetate dimeglumine does not assist in defining tumor margins of osteosarcoma. 
Does ventricular dysfunction occur during liver transplantation? In conclusion, we believe that ventricular dysfunction occurs infrequently during liver transplantation, except for the very short period of "cardioplegia" of the heart on reperfusion in some patients. There is no evidence that prolonged cardiac dysfunction is a common problem during liver transplantation. Understanding the physiologic changes that occur during liver transplantation should allow the anesthesiologist to correct many factors that might otherwise cause hemodynamic instability. 
Serologic characterization of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Appearance of antibodies reactive with endothelial cells and phospholipids, and factors that alter protein C activation and prostacyclin secretion. Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) takes its name from the characteristic rash that occurs as a consequence of vasculitis associated with rickettsial invasion of the endothelium. The authors examined sera from 14 patients with serologically confirmed RMSF for the presence of antibodies (IgG and IgM) reactive with human umbilical vein-derived endothelial cells and with the phospholipids cardiolipin (CL) and phosphatidyl serine (PS). Sera from 7 patients (50%) exhibited antiendothelial antibodies, and 10 (71%) patient sera reacted with CL and/or PS. Because such antibodies may interfere with or augment endothelial thrombosis-related activities, acute and convalescent sera were tested for their effects on endothelial PGI2 secretion and protein C activation. Acute sera from two patients and convalescent sera from four patients stimulated protein C activation. Additionally, sera from five acute and nine convalescent cases inhibited basal endothelial PGI2 secretion, but sera from two acute and three convalescent cases stimulated thrombin-dependent PGI2 secretion. These results demonstrated that, in a significant proportion of patients, RMSF was accompanied by the appearance of antibodies that bound to endothelial cells and to phospholipids; some of these antibodies may have altered anticoagulant endothelial functions. 
Ewing's sarcoma. Radiographic pattern of healing and bony complications in patients with long-term survival. The radiographic appearance of Ewing's sarcoma was studied retrospectively in 22 patients who survived 5 years or longer after diagnosis and treatment. Expected changes from treatment, including regression of the extraosseous soft tissue mass, periostitis, and reconstitution of the cortex, occurred in all patients. Local recurrence occurred in one patient 10 years after complete remission whereas secondary osteosarcoma occurred more than 5 years after complete remission in two other cases. Both recurrent and secondary tumors presented as new lytic foci at the site of the original primary lesion. Lytic changes from radiation (radiation osteitis) may develop more than 2 years after treatment and in this sample; such findings were widely distributed in the radiation port. The authors conclude that bone remodeling and postradiation changes occur slowly over 2 years after treatment, and that any localized lysis at the primary site is suspicious for recurrence or secondary neoplasm. Knowledge of the expected changes and patterns of local recurrence and secondary neoplasms helps one to detect any significant change in its early phase. 
A randomized trial comparing radiation therapy versus concomitant radiation therapy and chemotherapy in carcinoma of the thoracic esophagus. From September 1982 to December 1985, 59 previously untreated patients with Stage II squamous cell carcinoma of the thoracic esophagus were randomly assigned to receive radiation therapy (RT) alone versus the concomitant use of RT and chemotherapy (CT) with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), mitomycin C, and bleomycin (RT + CT). Thirty-one patients were randomized to the RT regimen and 28 to the RT + CT regimen. The complete local response rate was 58% for the RT group and 75% for the RT + CT group (P = 0.77). The median duration of response was 8 months for both groups. The overall 5-year survival rates were 6% and 16% (P = 0.16) for the RT and RT + CT groups, respectively. Acute toxicities were more pronounced in the RT + CT group. This clinical trial did not detect a difference in outcome with combined-technique therapy. This result must be interpreted with caution because of the small number of patients entered in this trial. Confirmation of the value or lack of value for combined therapy will require additional larger clinical trials. 
Hepatobiliary complications of polyarteritis nodosa. Although polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) may result in thrombosis or aneurysm formation in any organ in the body, hepatobiliary complications are unusual. We reviewed seven cases that demonstrated the diagnostic difficulties and therapeutic options available in the management of hepatobiliary PAN. No consistent sign that indicated the severity of hepatobiliary PAN could be identified. In cases of thrombotic PAN, acalculus cholecystitis usually could be diagnosed preoperatively. Early tissue diagnosis and aggressive intervention are required for appropriate patient treatment. If the diagnosis is unclear, a preoperative muscle or skin biopsy specimen is often helpful in establishing a tissue diagnosis of PAN, even if no obvious pathologic condition is evident. Patients who undergo celiotomy for acalculus cholecystitis or peritoneal signs of an unclear origin should have tissue specimens (gallbladder wall, liver, or omentum) submitted for pathologic study. Angiography may be diagnostic preoperatively or when results of biopsies are equivocal. In addition, early angiography can define the extent of visceral involvement and permit control by embolization of hemorrhage secondary to aneurysm rupture. Awareness of the possibilities of thrombotic, ischemic, or bleeding complications from PAN allows more aggressive and rapid management of abdominal complaints, especially in patients who are receiving immunosuppressant therapy. 
Neovascular response in ischaemic central retinal vein occlusion after panretinal photocoagulation. Twenty seven eyes treated for ischaemic central retinal vein occlusion with panretinal photocoagulation were reviewed. Prior to laser therapy anterior segment neovascularisation predominated (17 eyes) over posterior segment involvement (6 eyes). After photocoagulation anterior segment new vessels regressed or did not develop in the majority of cases. However, in five eyes previously absent posterior segment neovascularisation occurred. These results suggest that photocoagulation alters but does not eliminate retinal ischemia, thus modulating the neovascular response. 
Stratospheric ozone depletion and its relationship to skin cancer. Several articles have appeared in the literature regarding the impact of stratospheric ozone depletion on the prevalence of skin cancer due to increasing ultraviolet radiation. While it has been shown that UVB radiation is related to carcinogenesis of both melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer, it has not definitively been shown that stratospheric ozone depletion is translating into increased penetrating ultraviolet radiation. Estimates of increasing skin cancer in the future are dependent on calculations of UVB increases drawn from data on ozone depletion. The present article describes the history of stratospheric ozone depletion, how it may affect UVB penetration and skin cancer rates, and what is currently being done to prevent man's further detrimental effects on our atmosphere. 
Hazardous party trick (infolding of the pinna). Two cases of habitual pinna folding are reported. One case was complicated by the development of bilateral haematoma auris as a direct result of the trauma caused by the folding. 
Selective inhibition of leukemia cell proliferation by BCR-ABL antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. To determine the role of the BCR-ABL gene in the proliferation of blast cells of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia, leukemia blast cells were exposed to synthetic 18-mer oligodeoxynucleotides complementary to two identified BCR-ABL junctions. Leukemia colony formation was suppressed, whereas granulocyte-macrophage colony formation from normal marrow progenitors was unaffected. When equal proportions of normal marrow progenitors and blast cells were mixed, exposed to the oligodeoxynucleotides, and assayed for residual colony formation, the majority of residual cells were normal. These findings demonstrate the requirement for a functional BCR-ABL gene in maintaining the leukemic phenotype and the feasibility of gene-targeted selective killing of neoplastic cells. 
Myocardial perfusion imaging with thallium-201 to evaluate patients before and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Thallium-201 imaging may be used to help determine the distribution and amount of myocardium in jeopardy and the success of revascularization after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Single photon emission computed tomography is particularly advantageous because of its ability to differentiate vascular territories and thus evaluate patients with multivessel disease. Myocardial infarction resulting from complications such as distal embolization and side-branch occlusion can be detected. Thallium-201 imaging early after angioplasty may show abnormal results caused by transiently insufficient coronary flow reserve. However, studies performed 6 weeks or more after angioplasty accurately detect early restenosis and may identify those individuals likely to become symptomatic and eventually develop restenosis in the future. 
Hepatitis C antibody in patients with chronic liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the major etiologic agent of parenterally transmitted non-A, non-B hepatitis. To determine whether there is a relationship between this virus agent and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the sera of patients with HCC and chronic hepatitis were assessed using a sensitive immunoassay for HCV antibody. Anti-HCV was detected in 65% of 132 patients with HCC, without any relationship with the presence of the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). The prevalence (74%) of anti-HCV was high, as expected in patients with putative non-A, non-B cirrhosis also. The prevalence of anti-HCV was less in patients with HBsAg-positive cirrhosis (28%) and in patients with disease not related to viral hepatitis and healthy controls (8%). These data suggest, but do not prove, that HCV is an important factor associated with HCC. 
Pretreatment with a nontoxic derivative of endotoxin induces functional protection against cardiac ischemia/reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that low-dose pretreatment of an intact animal with a nontoxic derivative of endotoxin, monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), would induce protection against cardiac ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. The purposes of this study were to investigate whether MPL pretreatment would induce functional protection against cardiac I/R injury, to delineate the temporal induction of protection, and to examine antioxidant enzyme induction as a mechanism of protection. Rats were administered a 5 mg/kg dose of MPL at 2 hours and 24 hours before a 25-minute, global, 37 degrees C ischemic insult followed by reperfusion (modified Langendorff). At 40 minutes of reperfusion, ventricular function was assessed (ventricular balloon; developed pressure, rate of contraction, rate of relaxation). Hearts from rats pretreated with MPL 24 hours before isolation exhibited preservation of ventricular function (p less than 0.05). After I/R, hearts from rats pretreated with MPL 24 hours before isolation had increased (p less than 0.05) catalase activity compared to saline pretreated controls and rats pretreated with MPL 2 hours before isolation. We conclude that (1) pretreatment with MPL induces functional protection against cardiac I/R injury, (2) protection (not evident at 2 hours) is maximal at 24 hours, suggesting enzyme induction, and (3) increased catalase activity correlates with the functional protection. 
Increased plasma level of endothelin-1 and coronary spasm induction in patients with vasospastic angina pectoris To elucidate the pathogenic contribution of a potent vasoconstrictor, endothelin-1, to coronary artery spasm, we provoked spasm with intracoronary administration of acetylcholine or ergonovine and performed sensitive immunoassays of plasma levels of endothelin-1 and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in the peripheral vein and coronary sinus of patients with a tentative diagnosis of vasospastic angina (VSA, n = 19). The validity of coronary sinus blood sampling was verified by simultaneous measurement of the ANF level. The plasma endothelin-1 levels in venous and coronary sinus blood of the spasm-provoked patients (n = 12) were 1.71-fold and 2.16-fold higher, respectively, than those of nonprovoked cases (n = 5, p less than 0.01). During left coronary spasm, the endothelin-1 level in coronary sinus transiently decreased from 2.27 +/- 0.14 to 1.76 +/- 0.14 pg/ml (p less than 0.01) and returned to the control level (1.98 +/- 0.20 pg/ml) after the spasm resolved, whereas the change was equivocal during right coronary spasm. In contrast, the patients in whom spasm was not provoked showed no changes and maintained low endothelin-1 levels both before and after the maximal provocation (0.90 +/- 0.13 versus 0.90 +/- 0.13 pg/ml). 
Effect of enteral nutrition on exocrine pancreatic function. Twelve patients with chronic pancreatitis underwent a pancreatoduodenectomy in which the pylorus was preserved. The effects of parenteral and enteral nutrition on pancreatic secretion were compared. Postoperative nutrition was administered by needle-catheter jejunostomy in seven patients and by total parenteral nutrition in five patients. Pancreatic juice, drained directly from the pancreatic duct, was collected in 4-hour fractions. Volume, bicarbonate, protein, amylase, and chymotrypsin were measured. In the first two postoperative days, there was a slow increase in all measured indices. On the third postoperative day, an abrupt rise occurred, after which pancreatic secretion stabilized. No differences in exocrine pancreatic secretion were observed between the enteral and parenteral methods of feeding. 
Immunobiology of bone marrow transplantation as treatment for hematologic malignancies. In conclusion, graft-versus-leukemia is important to prevent leukemia relapse following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. This beneficial GVL effect is at least partly mediated by T-lymphocytes and is greatest in transplants from HLA-nongenotypically identical donors. GVL is associated with the presence of GVHD, although preliminary studies suggest it may be possible to separate these two processes. Improvement in treatment results requires innovative effective therapies to enhance the direct antineoplastic effects of the preparative regimen or immune-mediated antileukemia mechanisms. 
Morphologic comparison of frequency and types of acute lesions in the major epicardial coronary arteries in unstable angina pectoris, sudden coronary death and acute myocardial infarction. The frequency and type of acute lesions in the four major (right, left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex) epicardial coronary arteries were examined at necropsy in 14 patients with unstable angina pectoris, 21 patients with sudden coronary death and 32 patients with a fatal first acute myocardial infarction. None of the 67 patients had a grossly visible left ventricular scar (healed myocardial infarct) and only the group with acute myocardial infarction had left ventricular myocardial necrosis. Although the frequency of intraluminal thrombus was similar in patients with unstable angina (29%) and sudden death (29%) and significantly lower than in those with acute infarction (69%) (p = 0.02), the thrombus in the patients with unstable angina and sudden death consisted almost entirely of platelets and was nonocclusive, whereas the thrombus in the group with acute infarction consisted almost entirely of fibrin and was occlusive. The frequency of plaque rupture was insignificantly different in the groups with unstable angina (36%) and sudden death (19%), and was significantly lower than in the group with acute infarction (75%) (p = 0.02). The frequency of plaque hemorrhage was insignificantly different in the groups with unstable angina (64%) and sudden death (38%) and was significantly lower than in the group with acute infarction (90%) (p = 0.04). 
New recurring chromosomal translocations in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We identified seven new recurring translocations among 483 cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with adequate chromosome banding studies. Four were apparently balanced [t(1;3)(p34;p21), t(7;9)(p15;p23-p24), t(12;13)(p13;q14), t(17;19)(q22;p13)], while three were unbalanced with the formation of a dicentric chromosome [dic(7;9)(p13;p11), dic(7;12)(p11;p12), and dic(12;17)(p11;p11-p12)]. One translocation was observed in five cases, two in four cases, and the remaining four in two cases each. The modal chromosome numbers in these 21 cases were 45 (n = 11), 46 (n = 8), and 47 (n = 2). Eight of the 11 cases with a dicentric chromosome had a modal number of 45. Only a single translocation was found in 14 cases (67%), representing the sole structural abnormality in six cases. In three of the seven translocation subgroups, the blast cells were consistently of B lineage (pre-B, early pre-B, or both); in all others, they represented both the B and T lineages. The small size of these subgroups prevented definitive clinical correlations, although it may be important that two of the four cases with a t(17;19) and an early pre-B-cell immunophenotype had disseminated intravascular coagulation, an event usually observed in acute promyelocytic leukemia or T-cell ALL. These findings add substantially to the existing list of nonrandom chromosomal translocations in childhood ALL and may help to explain the genetic alterations leading to the loss of normal growth control mechanisms in this disease. 
Survival of cancer of the larynx related to treatment. Analysis of 3445 cases of cancer of the larynx has been made with reference to primary (first) and secondary treatments. It is easy to confirm that while radiotherapy is inferior to laryngectomy in the cure of larger glottic tumours, it is preferable in many cases because salvage surgery is possible and successful. Salvage surgery cannot be shown to be successful in larger supraglottic tumours, which should be considered for primary surgery. Radiotherapy appears better than surgery for small tumours. 
Severity and specificity of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Parkinson's diseases and progressive supranuclear palsy. To investigate differences in severity and specificity of cognitive impairment among various neurodegenerative diseases, we tested groups of patients presenting with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT; 44), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP; 45), Huntington's disease (HD; 35) and Parkinson's disease (PD; 164), with an extensive neuropsychological battery. We found dementia, as defined by a global intellectual performance 2 standard deviations lower than mean control values, in 93% of SDAT, 66% of HD, 58% of PSP, and 18% of PD patients. Specific features of cognitive impairment distinguished the four groups of patients once they were matched for level of intellectual deterioration: remote memory and linguistic disorders in SDAT, frontal lobe-like abnormalities in PSP, concentration and acquisition disorders in HD. There was no specific alteration in demented PD patients. This study demonstrates the frequency of dementia in predominantly subcortical degenerative diseases and indicates that "subcortical dementia," rather than being a homogeneous entity, should be divided into specific subtypes of cognitive impairment related to different underlying specific lesions of each disease. 
Isolated incisional metastases after intraperitoneal radioactive chromic phosphate therapy for ovarian carcinoma. Two women developed apparently isolated recurrences of ovarian carcinoma involving prior incisions after receiving intraperitoneal radioactive chromic phosphate (P-32) adjuvant therapy for early epithelial ovarian carcinoma. Both are alive without evidence of disease at second-look laparotomy after surgical resection of the abdominal wall metastases and cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy. Mechanisms of cutaneous and incisional implantation metastases are discussed. Adjuvant therapy with intraperitoneal P-32 is unable to provide systemic therapy for occult metastatic disease. The favorable outcome in these cases probably reflects limited tumor burden at the time of recurrence and stands in stark contrast to other cases of soft tissue recurrences of ovarian carcinoma reported previously. 
A case of cardiac hydatid cyst localized on the interventricular septum and causing pulmonary emboli. Cardiac hydatid cyst is rarely encountered. In this article, a case of hydatid cyst localized in multiple organs including the ventricular septum and causing pulmonary emboli is reported. 
Excision of cavernous angioma with preservation of coexisting venous angioma. Case report. The case of a patient presenting with dysphasic seizures due to a cavernous angioma coexisting with a venous malformation is reported. The cavernous angioma was resected with preservation of the venous malformation, as confirmed by postoperative studies. The patient was seizure-free following surgery. 
Epileptiform EEG activity of the centromedian thalamic nuclei in children with intractable generalized seizures of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Centromedian thalamic nuclei (CM) epileptiform EEG activities were recorded in children with intractable generalized seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) through implanted recording-stimulating electrodes used for seizure control. Ictal CM epileptiform activities were consistently correlated to widespread surface cortical EEG activities and symptoms in all patients and all types of generalized seizures; i.e., fast spike discharges at CM correlated at onset of tonic and tonic-clonic generalized seizures; slow (1-2 Hz) spike-wave complex discharges at CM correlated for atypical absence seizures; slow polyspike-wave complex discharges correlated for myoclonic seizures; and spike bursts and suppression patterns correlated for combined tonic-atonic-myoclonic seizures. Ictal EEG activities occurred simultaneously at right and left CM and surface at onset of all seizure types, with the exception of myoclonic seizures where CM complete discharges and individual spike-wave complexes significantly lead those of the surface. Brief tonic-atonic spasms clinically undistinguishable from "real" epileptic seizures showed no EEG counterparts at CM and surface. Interictal CM spike-wave complete discharges and individual spike-wave complexes showed variable amplitude-temporal patterns. Amplitude emphasis on CM and frontopolar regions was observed in most of complete discharges, however, and phase shifts between CM and frontopolar regions were observed in individual spike-wave complexes. 
Prevention of deep vein thrombosis after elective hip surgery. A randomized trial comparing low molecular weight heparin with standard unfractionated heparin OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative efficacy and safety of low molecular weight (LMW) heparin (Enoxaparin) compared with standard calcium heparin for the prevention of postoperative deep vein thrombosis in patients undergoing elective hip surgery. DESIGN: A double-blind, randomized, controlled trial. PATIENTS: Six hundred sixty-five consecutive patients undergoing hip replacement at five participating hospitals. INTERVENTIONS: Patients received either fixed-dose LMW heparin, 30 mg subcutaneously twice daily, or fixed-dose standard calcium heparin, 7500 units subcutaneously twice daily; both regimens were started 12 to 24 hours after surgery and continued for 14 days or until discharge if sooner. MEASUREMENTS: All patients had postoperative I-125-fibrinogen leg scanning and impedance plethysmography. If results of one or both tests were positive, then venography was done. Otherwise, venography was done between day 10 and day 14, or sooner if the patient was ready for discharge. RESULTS: Evaluable venograms were obtained in 258 of the 333 patients randomly assigned to receive LMW heparin and in 263 of the 332 patients assigned to receive calcium heparin. For patients with evaluable venograms, thrombosis was detected in 50 patients (19.4%) who received LMW heparin compared with 61 patients (23.2%) who received standard heparin (difference, -3.8%; 95% CI, -11.1% to 3.6%) (P greater than 0.2). Proximal deep vein thrombosis was detected in 5.4% of the patients receiving LMW heparin and in 6.5% of the patients receiving standard heparin (difference, -1.1%; CI, - 5.2% to 3.3%) (P greater than 0.2). For the entire group of 665 patients, venous thrombosis occurred in 17.1% given LMW heparin and in 19.0% given standard heparin. Hemorrhagic complications occurred in 31 patients (9.3%) given standard heparin and in 17 patients (5.1%) given LMW heparin (difference, 4.2%; CI, 0.3% to 8.2%) (P = 0.035). The relative risk reduction was 45%. The rate of major bleeding in the standard heparin group was 5.7% compared with 3.3% in the LMW heparin group (difference, 2.4%; CI, -1.0% to 5.4%) (P = 0.13). The relative risk reduction was 42%. CONCLUSION: Low molecular weight heparin is significantly less hemorrhagic than standard unfractionated heparin; the difference in the rate of deep vein thrombosis, although not statistically significant (P greater than 0.2), favors the use of LMW heparin. 
Multi-centre phase II study of low dose intravesical epirubicin in the treatment of superficial bladder cancer. Yorkshire and Scottish Urological Cancer Research Groups. Forty patients with multiple recurrent superficial bladder tumours received an 8-week course of weekly instillations of 4' epirubicin 30 mg in 50 ml saline. The overall response rate was 58% and side effects were minimal. 
Low-grade primary B-cell lymphoma of the lung. An immunohistochemical, molecular, and cytogenetic study of a single case. A case of primary low-grade pulmonary lymphoma is described. The histologic features conformed to those laid down by Saltzstein for a diagnosis of "pseudolymphoma." However, the immunocytochemical and molecular investigations confirmed the tumor to be a low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT). Cytogenetic studies revealed an abnormal karyotype with a translocation t(1;14). This is the first reported case of an abnormal karyotype in a case of a lymphoma of MALT. 
Characterization of a receptor for interleukin-5 on human eosinophils and the myeloid leukemia line HL-60. Interleukin-5 (IL-5) promotes the growth and differentiation of human eosinophils and may regulate the selective eosinophilia and eosinophil activation seen in certain diseases. Radiolabeled recombinant human IL-5 (hIL-5) was used to characterize the IL-5 receptor present on normal human eosinophils and on the myeloid leukemia line HL-60, which can be induced to differentiate into eosinophilic cells. Binding studies with eosinophils and HL-60 cells grown under alkaline conditions demonstrated similar high-affinity binding sites for hIL-5 on both cell types with kd values of approximately 400 pmol/L. The binding observed was specific in that it was not inhibited by hIL-3, human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, or hIL-2. Binding studies with a number of other human cell lines, including a B-lymphoma line, and with lymphocyte and neutrophil preparations were also performed, but IL-5 receptors were not detectable on these cells. The number of hIL-5 receptors on HL-60 cells could be correlated with its propensity to differentiate towards an eosinophilic cell type. Expression of hIL-5 receptors on HL-60 cells was upregulated by butyric acid under alkaline conditions, downregulated by hIL-3, virtually eliminated by dimethyl sulfoxide and hIL-5, while hIL-2 had no detectable effect. One major 125I-hIL-5-crosslinked complex of 75 to 85 Kd in Mr was detected on HL-60 cells using crosslinking agents giving a molecular mass of 55 to 60 Kd for the hIL-5 receptor itself. Studies using cellular autoradiography showed that IL-5 receptors were evenly distributed on eosinophils but that receptor distribution on HL-60 cells was noticeably heterogeneous. Eosinophils were the only cells in slides prepared from peripheral blood that had detectable levels of IL-5 receptors in agreement with the specific action of IL-5 on the human eosinophil lineage. 
Ventricular tachycardia after in vivo DC shock ablation in dogs. Electrophysiologic and histologic correlation. BACKGROUND. DC shock catheter ablation for the treatment of ventricular tachycardia (VT) may induce VT episodes that disappear within days. METHODS AND RESULTS. A 30-J cathodal shock was delivered to the endocardial left ventricular wall in 15 closed-chest dogs. All dogs had VT during the first day after ablation. Eleven of these dogs were studied on the first day. Extensive epicardial and endocardial activation mapping in vivo, in Langendorff-perfused hearts, and in tissue blocks in a tissue bath localized the site of origin of VT to subendocardial Purkinje fibers in a border zone surrounding the central necrotic ablation lesion. Intracellular recording showed that this zone consisted of a subendocardial superficial layer (SSL) of cells with abnormal characteristics, a resting membrane potential (RMP) of -58 +/- 11 mV (mean +/- SD), and an action potential amplitude (APA) of 61 +/- 20 mV. In addition, the steepness of phase 0 of the action potential was markedly reduced. In three dogs abnormal automaticity was found in a very small area. Immediately below the SSL, cells were normal with an RMP of -78 +/- 5 mV and an APA of 107 +/- 8 mV. Histology confirmed a thin SSL with edematous and necrotic cells, hemorrhage, and infiltration. The other four dogs were studied at 1 week after ablation when VT was absent. Microelectrode impalement in the SSL was either impossible or showed nearly normal action potential characteristics. Histological examination showed a markedly thickened fibrotic subendocardial layer at places where impalement was impossible. Normal subendocardium was found in other areas of the border zone. CONCLUSIONS. Our results indicate that VT after DC shock ablation originates from cells with abnormal automaticity in the superficial subendocardial border zone around the central ablation lesion. Within 1 week edematous and necrotic cells in this border zone are replaced by a fibrotic layer, and this transition is associated with the disappearance of VT. 
Cor triatriatum. Clinical presentation and operative results. From November 1973 to January 1988, 15 patients with cor triatriatum underwent surgical correction at the Department of Cardiac Surgery, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo, Italy. Their ages ranged from 15 days to 48 years. Eight patients (53%) were younger than age 1 year. Evidence of congestive heart failure was present in five infants, whereas three infants, three children, and two adults initially had signs of pulmonary venous obstruction, and two children had a heart murmur only. Five patients had cor triatriatum alone; in ten cases there also was an atrial septal defect. Associated anomalies in four patients included left superior vena cava, ventricular septal defect and left superior vena cava, partial anomalous pulmonary venous connection, and bilateral partial anomalous pulmonary venous connection. Cor triatriatum was repaired with the aid of cardiopulmonary bypass in all patients. Excision of the membrane was accomplished with a right atrial approach in 13 patients and a left atriotomy in one patient. Both atria were opened in one case. All associated anomalies were simultaneously corrected. Three patients (20%) died early after operation. Among the 12 survivors, no late events have occurred, and all of them are presently in New York Heart Association functional class I. A recent echocardiogram shows absence of residual obstruction or shunt and good development of the left cardiac chambers. 
Bacterial translocation in trauma patients. Sepsis and multiple system organ failure (MSOF) are major causes of morbidity and mortality in trauma patients. Bacterial translocation induced by hypotension, endotoxemia, or burns is a reproducible phenomenon in the laboratory. The incidence of bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) in 29 critically ill patients was evaluated to determine its relationship to subsequent sepsis and MSOF. Bacterial translocation was documented in 3 of 4 patients who underwent laparotomy for gastrointestinal (GI) disease. No trauma patient (25 patients), even at second exploration 3-5 days after injury, had a positive MLN culture. Five patients died; 4 trauma patients, one with GI disease. Forty percent of the trauma patients had major complications, predominantly pulmonary infections with gram-negative bacteria. However, infectious complications and outcome were not related to MLN culture results. The classical progression of bacteria from the gut to the bloodstream via the MLNs may require time and gut mucosal injury. The data suggest that bacterial translocation to the MLNs is not a common occurrence in acutely injured trauma patients. 
Valve replacement for calcified aortic stenosis in septuagenarians infers normal life-length. Aortic valve replacement because of pure or predominant stenosis was performed in 1970-1986 on 101 patients aged 70-78 years, including 80 in NYHA function class III or IV. There were 16 deaths within 30 days, and coronary artery disease (unbypassed in all but 1 case) was found in 11 of the 13 with autopsy or preoperative arteriography. None of the 12 patients without significant coronary artery disease at angiography died perioperatively,but one of 12 with combined valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting died. Cumulative 1-year survival among the 101 patients/the 85 survivors of the first 30 days and/a normal population matched for sex, age and year of operation was 75/90/96%. Corresponding percentages for 5 years were 64/75/77, for 10 years 43/52/52, and for 15 years 35/42/27. Advanced disease with kidney failure or left ventricular end-diastolic pressure greater than 20 mmHg independently increased the overall mortality rate. The linearized rat of cerebral events (haemorrhage, embolism) was 2.7/100 patient years (age-specific background rate 1.6-1.9/100 patient years). The 30-day mortality among septuagenarians was reduced to 3% in 1988-1989 by routine revascularization in significant coronary artery disease. The patients who survived the first 30 days had normal life expectancy. Early operation may further improve the results. 
Risk factors for candidemia in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia. Between 1983 and 1987 the overall incidence of candidemia at the Institut Gustave Roussy, a tertiary care referral hospital for patients with cancer, increased from 0.1% (7 of 6,801) to 0.32% (24 of 7,515) (P = .009). Because acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) was the most common underlying disease in patients with candidemia, risk factors for candidemia were analyzed in this subset of patients. A case-control study comparing the eight ALL patients who had candidemia with 18 ALL control patients revealed that previous bacteremia, prolonged neutropenia, prolonged fever, prolonged administration of antimicrobial agents, treatment with multiple antimicrobial agents, and a relatively high concentration of Candida organisms in stool were significant risk factors for candidemia. In a logistic regression analysis, however, only receipt of vancomycin and/or imipenem was identified as an independent risk factor for candidemia. Further analysis showed that administration of vancomycin promoted proliferation of Candida organisms in the gastrointestinal tract and that this proliferation was associated with an increased risk of candidemia. 
Polyamines, vascular smooth muscle, and deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertension. This study was performed to determine if an alteration in vascular polyamine contents is associated with the development of deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertension. The effects of chronic administration of alpha-difluoromethylornithine, a specific irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase and thus polyamine biosynthesis, on vascular polyamine contents, structure, and function as well as the development of hypertension was studied. Control and deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rats received either tap water or a drinking solution containing alpha-difluoromethylornithine for 6 weeks, during which period systolic blood pressures were recorded. Vascular reactivity studies were performed on rings of aorta and tail artery. Medial thickness, vessel weight, and vascular polyamine contents were also assessed in these arteries. alpha-difluoromethylornithine treatment had no significant effect on either systolic blood pressure or vascular structure, function, and polyamine contents of control animals. The elevation in blood pressure and the increase in medial thickness, ring weight, and vascular polyamine contents as well as altered vascular reactivity observed in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rats was significantly attenuated by alpha-difluoromethylornithine treatment. These results are the first to demonstrate that vascular polyamine contents are elevated in the deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rat and that chronic alpha-difluoromethylornithine treatment prevents the rise in vascular polyamines as well as the elevation in blood pressure and attendant changes in the vasculature. Thus, the increase in vascular polyamines may comprise a critical link between the initiating stimuli and the alterations in vascular structure and function implicated in the pathogenesis of deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertension. 
Autonomic dysfunction in alcoholic cirrhosis: relationship to indicators of synthetic activation and the occurrence of renal sodium retention. We investigated the occurrence of alcoholic autonomic dysfunction in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis in order to define its prevalence and relationship to renal sodium retention. Forty-seven alcoholics and 16 age-matched normal subjects were evaluated. Thirty-seven patients had liver disease (13 with and 24 without ascites), and 10 patients had normal hepatic function. Autonomic nervous system function was ascertained by skin sudomotor responses and the response of blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine concentration to upright tilt (sympathetic nervous system function), and by heart rate responses to deep breathing, Valsalva maneuver, and upright tilt (parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous system function). Heart rate responses to deep breathing and Valsalva maneuver were diminished, and skin sudomotor responses were significantly worse, in alcoholics than in control subjects. Alcoholic patients also had significantly lower supine mean arterial pressure (93 +/- 10 vs. 116 +/- 8 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.0001), and significantly greater increases in arterial pressure during passive upright tilt, than control subjects (mean increase 6.5 +/- 6.6 vs. 0.1 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, p = 0.0003). All of these findings were present to similar degrees in patients with and without liver disease and in cirrhotic patients with and without ascites. Supine heart rates, however, differed among the groups evaluated. Heart rate was significantly greater in patients with cirrhosis than in alcoholic patients without liver disease (83 +/- 11 vs. 71 +/- 13 bpm, p = 0.006), and in patients with ascites than in patients without ascites (88 +/- 12 vs. 80 +/- 10 bpm, p = 0.04). Plasma norepinephrine concentration was elevated in most patients with cirrhosis and was significantly higher in patients with ascites than in patients without ascites (789 +/- 238 vs. 388 +/- 185 pg/ml, p less than 0.0001; nl range: 65-320 pg/ml). Autonomic nervous system function is similarly impaired in alcoholics with and without liver disease. Patients with cirrhosis also have increased heart rate and elevated plasma norepinephrine concentration, abnormalities that are most pronounced in patients with sodium retention. Their is uncertainty as to the stimulus for norepinephrine release, and its source, in these patients. However, the similarity of supine blood pressure in patients with and without ascites and the occurrence of orthostatic hypertension rather than orthostatic hypotension following upright tilt suggest that arterial underfilling is not responsible. 
Rapid loss of vertebral mineral density after renal transplantation. BACKGROUND. Osteopenia is a major complication of renal transplantation. Immunosuppressive regimens including cyclosporine, which permit the use of lower doses of glucocorticoids, may reduce glucocorticoid-induced osteopenia. METHODS. We prospectively studied the magnitude, distribution, and mechanism of bone loss in 20 adults who received renal allografts from living related donors, who had good renal function, and who were treated with azathioprine, cyclosporine, and low doses of prednisone. We measured serum biochemical markers of bone metabolism, determined the bone mineral density of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrae and the shaft of the radius, and analyzed the histomorphometric features of iliac bone at the time of transplantation and six months later. Measurements of vertebral mineral density were repeated 18 months after transplantation in 17 of the patients. RESULTS. After transplantation, the mean serum concentrations of parathyroid hormone, phosphorus, and alkaline phosphatase decreased and the serum calcitriol concentration increased. The mean (+/- SD) bone mineral density of the vertebrae had decreased 6.8 +/- 5.6 percent 6 months after transplantation (P less than 0.05) and 8.8 +/- 7.0 percent 18 months after transplantation. In contrast, the bone mineral density of the radius had increased six months after transplantation (P less than 0.05). The histomorphometric studies showed that the rate of bone formation decreased from 50.5 +/- 44.8 to 23.1 +/- 13.8 microns3 per square micrometer per year (P less than 0.05), and the formation period lengthened from 70 +/- 42 to 146 +/- 144 days (P less than 0.05). Consequently, the amount of bone replaced during a remodeling cycle diminished. CONCLUSIONS. Osteopenia associated with renal transplantation remains a problem in the cyclosporine era. The loss of vertebral bone in our subjects was due to an imbalance in bone remodeling consistent with a toxic effect of glucocorticoids. 
The clinical course of perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage We studied the early clinical course of 65 patients with perimesencephalic (nonaneurysmal) subarachnoid hemorrhage. None of the patients rebled; none had delayed cerebral ischemia; and only 3 patients (5%) developed clinical signs of acute hydrocephalus, 2 requiring ventricular shunting. Hyponatremia and electrocardiographic changes were found in the same proportions as in patients with aneurysmal rupture. All patients had a good outcome after 3 months. To control for the influence of the relatively small amount of cisternal blood in perimesencephalic hemorrhage on the absence of delayed cerebral ischemia, we compared these 65 patients with 49 patients who had aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. This control group with aneurysms was selected according to a similar amount of cisternal blood, a comparable level of consciousness on admission, and absence of other factors known to increase the risk for delayed cerebral ischemia. We found that 4 of the 49 patients with aneurysmal hemorrhage developed delayed cerebral ischemia (Fisher's exact test, p = 0.03); therefore the relatively small amount of blood does not account for the absence of delayed cerebral ischemia in perimesencephalic hemorrhage. Patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage and a normal angiogram should be considered to have a distinct subset of subarachnoid hemorrhage and should be excluded from future treatment trials of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Coronary hemodynamics and myocardial metabolism in patients with syndrome X: response to pacing stress Coronary hemodynamics, myocardial metabolism and left ventricular function at rest and after incremental atrial pacing were evaluated in 12 patients with stress-induced angina and ST segment depression, angiographically normal coronary arteries and no evidence of spasm, generally labeled as syndrome X, and in 10 normal subjects. At baseline study, great cardiac vein flow was comparable in patients and control subjects. During pacing, an equivalent rate-pressure product was reached in the two groups, but the slope of the relation between rate-pressure product and great cardiac vein flow was significantly less steep in patients than in normal subjects (0.0027 vs. 0.0054 ml/mm Hg.beat, p less than 0.001). Nevertheless, the left ventricular ejection fraction was comparable in both groups at rest (66 +/- 6% vs. 71 +/- 7%, p = NS) and during pacing (71 +/- 7% vs. 66 +/- 5%, p = NS). At baseline study, myocardial glucose extraction was more efficient in patients with syndrome X (p less than 0.05), but net myocardial exchange of pyruvate and alanine was, respectively, smaller and greater than in control subjects. Lactate was extracted to a similar extent in the two groups and in no instance was net lactate release observed during pacing or recovery. During pacing and recovery, patients with syndrome X showed net pyruvate release, unlike the control subjects in whom net pyruvate exchange was positive. In addition, patients with syndrome X continued to show net myocardial extraction of alanine during spacing and recovery, whereas normal subjects produced alanine throughout the study. Myocardial carbohydrate oxidation increased significantly during maximal pacing in normal subjects but not in patients, in whom it always remained below (p less than 0.01) the concurrent rate of myocardial uptake of carbohydrate equivalents (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, alanine). Myocardial energy expenditure was significantly lower in patients than in control subjects at maximal rate-pressure product levels (p less than 0.01). The metabolic pattern in patients with syndrome X therefore is not consistent with classic ischemia, although differences in the net exchange of circulating substrates (glucose, pyruvate, alanine) can be demonstrated. Thus, in patients with syndrome X, the symptoms, electrocardiographic signs and impairment in the increase in great cardiac vein flow during pacing coexist with preserved global and regional left ventricular function and myocardial energy efficiency. 
Unusual presentation of extranodal peripheral T-cell lymphomas with multiple paraneoplastic features. Three patients with extranodal peripheral T-cell lymphoma and a distinctive clinical presentation are described. They had acute onset of fever, weight loss, progressive liver failure, bleeding diathesis, pancytopenia, and myelodysplastic changes in the bone marrow. Each patient had one or more paraneoplastic complications: severe rhabdomyolysis with myoglobinuria and secondary renal failure, cutaneous vasculitis, gluten-sensitive enteropathy, polyserositis, and increased macrophages with hemophagocytic activity. They did not have peripheral lymphadenopathy. The complex clinical presentations simulated collagen vascular disorders, systemic infections, or severe liver disease rather than a malignant lymphoma. Routine histologic studies revealed a small population of lymphoma cells in the bone marrow, spleen, and liver. Immunophenotyping studies demonstrated their T-cell phenotype, and cytogenetic analysis showed the clonality in Patients 1 and 2; clonal T-cell receptor gene rearrangement was found in Patients 2 and 3. These studies should be considered in the evaluation of patients with constitutional symptoms, liver failure, coagulopathy, and pancytopenia even in the absence of peripheral lymphadenopathy. 
Establishment of a human acute myeloid leukemia cell line (Kasumi-1) with 8;21 chromosome translocation. A novel leukemic cell line with an 8;21 chromosome translocation, designated as Kasumi-1, was established from the peripheral blood of a 7-year-old boy suffering from acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The Kasumi-1 cells were positive for myeloperoxidase showing a morphology of myeloid maturation. The response in proliferation assay was observed in the culture with interleukin-3 (IL-3), IL-6, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and granulocytemacrophage CSF (GM-CSF), but not with IL-1 or IL-5. Neither granulocytic nor eosinophilic maturation was observed in the liquid culture by the addition of dimethyl sulfoxide, G-CSF, or IL-5, respectively. In contrast, induction of macrophagelike cells was seen by the addition of phorbol ester. This is the first report of a human AML cell line with t(8;21) that has characteristics of myeloid and macrophage lineages. The cell line could be a useful tool for elucidating the pathophysiology of AML with t(8;21). 
Facial translocation: a new approach to the cranial base. Nasopharynx, clivus, and cavernous sinus are difficult regions of the cranial base in which to perform oncologic surgery. We have developed an approach to this area by using facial soft tissue translocation and craniofacial osteotomies. Surgical field obtained at the skull base can extend from the contralateral eustachian tube to ipsilateral geniculate ganglion. It includes the nasopharynx, clivus, sphenoid, and cavernous sinus, as well as the entire infratemporal fossa and superior orbital fissure. Our experience with this technique in 12 patients is reported. All patients healed primarily. 
Severe hypoxemia secondary to acute sternal infarction in sickle cell anemia. This article describes a 28-yr-old black man with sickle cell anemia who presented with severe chest pain secondary to acute infarction of the body of the sternum, hypoventilation, and hypoxemia with no evidence of acute chest syndrome. A bone scan performed 5 days after admission revealed increased uptake in the sternum, suggesting sternal infarction. Repeat bone scan performed 2 mo later demonstrated normal concentration in the sternum. 
Hepatitis C virus infection in chronic hepatitis B virus carriers. One hundred eighty-four patients with hepatitis B surface antigen-positive chronic hepatitis were evaluated for antibodies to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV). Only 11 (8%) of 136 patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication (HBV-DNA-positive in serum) while 7 (35%) of 20 positive for antibody to hepatitis B e antigen (anti-HBe) but HBV-DNA-negative were positive for anti-HCV. By contrast, anti-HCV was never found in 30 anti-HBe-positive "healthy" carriers. Anti-HCV was more frequent in hepatitis D virus (HDV)-positive than in HDV-negative cases (32% vs. 12%). During 1-11 years of follow-up, anti-HCV persisted in 90% of cases, who showed continuing alanine aminotransferase elevation. Liver histology deteriorated in 2 of 4 anti-HCV-positive, anti-HBe-positive, HBV-DNA-negative patients. These results demonstrate the existence of a subgroup of patients with anti-HBe-positive, HBV-DNA-negative, HDV-negative chronic hepatitis B, where HCV may play a leading role in causing liver disease. 
Microcirculatory flow changes after initial resuscitation of hemorrhagic shock with 7.5% hypertonic saline/6% dextran 70. In rabbits, laser Doppler flow probes were placed in the jejunum and on the renal cortex. Pulsed Doppler probes were implanted on the abdominal aorta and superior mesenteric and femoral arteries for measuring blood flow velocity. Cardiac output was measured by thermal dilution. Either 30% or 40% of the calculated blood volume was withdrawn through a carotid catheter. After 30 or 60 minutes, an initial bolus of either lactated Ringer's (LR, 16 ml/kg) or 7.5% hypertonic saline/6% dextran 70 (HSD; 4 ml/kg) IV was followed by unlimited IV LR (administered as rapidly as possible) to restore systemic arterial blood pressure to the prehemorrhage levels. With HSD, arterial pressure corrected more rapidly (p less than 0.05), and the initial hemodilution was greater (p less than 0.05), but there were no differences by two hours. With HSD, cardiac output (90%-100% vs. 130%-160% of control; p less than 0.05), plasma Na+ (139-140 mM vs. 146-148 mM; p less than 0.05) and plasma osmolarity (292-295 mOsm vs. 308-310 mOsm; p less than 0.05) were all significantly higher than the values with LR, but there was no effect on blood flow velocities through the infrarenal aorta, femoral artery, or superior mesenteric artery. Renal cortical perfusion (56% vs. 97% of control; p less than 0.05) and jejunal mucosal perfusion (83% vs. 162% of control; p less than 0.05) were significantly higher with HSD. HSD had no detectable effect on bacterial translocation at 24 hours. Thus: 1) HSD restores blood flow more rapidly to the gut mucosal and kidney microcirculations than initial resuscitation with LR; 2) the mechanism could be associated with a transient hemodilution and persistent increases in plasma Na and osmolarity, which reduce hemorrhage-induced cell swelling and blood viscosity changes; and 3) laser Doppler analysis could aid in the diagnosis of reperfusion injury after shock. 
Mortality in acute cerebral infarction in young adults--a ten-year experience. We reviewed the one-month mortality among 213 patients aged fifteen to forty-five years (mean thirty-five) with acute cerebral infarction (CI) evaluated during the period July 1, 1977, to February 1, 1988. Atherosclerotic cerebral infarction (ACI) was diagnosed in 59 (27.7%) patients, 53 (24.9%) had non-atherosclerotic vasculopathies (NAV); 46 (21.6%) had cardioembolic infarcts (CEI). Hematologically related disorders were diagnosed in 30 (14.1%) patients; the cause of CI could not be established in 25 (11.7%) patients. Fourteen patients (9 men, 5 women, mean age 34.8 years), (6.6%) died within thirty days of their CI: 7 had CEI (7/46,15.2%); 4 had ACI (4/59, 6.7%); and 3 had NAV (3/53, 5.6%). Our data suggest that young patients with acute CI have a thirty-day mortality rate lower than older patients. Deaths were most common in patients with CEI. Brain edema and herniation accounted for 6 (43%) of the deaths. 
Homocystinuria due to 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency revealed by stroke in adult siblings. Three patients from a single family of six siblings had homocystinemia and homocystinuria due to 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency and had severe recurrent strokes in adult life. Two of the patients died 1 year after clinical onset. 
Posterior fossa ependymomas: report of 30 cases and review of the literature. Thirty patients with histologically confirmed posterior fossa ependymomas operated on between January 1976 and December 1988 were reviewed. The median age was 44 years (range, 1-69 yr). There were 7 children (aged 5 yr or younger) and 23 adults (aged 16 yr or older). There were 18 female patients and 12 male patients. Headache, nausea and vomiting, and disequilibrium were the most frequent symptoms. The most common findings were ataxia and nystagmus. Gross total resection was performed in 8 patients (27%), subtotal resection in 21 patients (70%), and biopsy in only 1 patient (3%). Tumors were low grade in 73% and high grade in 27%. Twenty-seven patients underwent posterior fossa radiotherapy (median dose, 5400 cGy). Fourteen patients also underwent spinal irradiation (median dose, 3520 cGy). Age was the only significant prognostic factor identified (P less than 0.01). The 5-year survival rates were 76% for adults and 14% for children. All 14 patients who died had recurrent or residual tumor at the primary site. This review suggests that in patients with primary posterior fossa ependymomas the following is true: 1) the young patient (5 yr old or younger) has a poor prognosis; 2) there was a trend toward a better 5-year survival rate with a gross total resection; 3) if recurrence occurs, it will be at the primary intracranial site; and 4) symptomatic spinal seeding does not occur frequently. 
Dendritic and synaptic pathology in mental retardation. Histologic changes in brains from mentally retarded patients are often subtle and may be limited to abnormalities in the dendritic and synaptic organization of the cerebral cortex. Special methods may be necessary for their demonstration. This review summarizes data on dendritic and synaptic pathology in human mental retardation syndromes. Findings in humans are compared to those in animal models that are of relevance to human disorders. Both in humans and in animal models there is evidence that development modifies the observed changes and that findings differ depending on the developmental age at which the tissue is studied. 
Predictors of an increased risk of future hypertension in Utah. A screening analysis. A prospective study on 1,482 adult members of 98 Utah pedigrees was carried out to determine which variables may be associated with an increased risk of hypertension incidence. After an average of 7 years of follow-up, 40 individuals had been placed on antihypertensive medications to lower blood pressure. Baseline study variables included anthropometrics, clinical chemistry measurements of blood and urine, socioeconomic and lifestyle variables, and detailed erythrocyte ion transport and concentration measurements. Age (relative risk of 4.28 for a 2 SD difference, p less than 0.0001) and baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressures (relative risks of 3.55 and 3.52, respectively, both p less than 0.0001) had the strongest associations with hypertension incidence. Controlling for age and baseline blood pressure, the following age- and sex-adjusted variables were associated with an increased risk of future hypertension (relative risks for a 2 SD difference, all p less than 0.10): family history of hypertension (2.35); height (1.97); body mass index (2.31); abdominal girth (2.66); subscapular, suprailiac, and triceps skinfold thicknesses (2.79, 2.52, and 2.28, respectively); percent ideal body weight (2.63); log triglyceride concentration (2.02); plasma uric acid (2.16); inorganic phosphate (0.50); and passive erythrocyte sodium permeability (1.59). The final model,which included all of the age- and sex-adjusted variables (p less than 0.10) in a backward elimination logistic regression analysis, consisted of age (4.78), systolic blood pressure (2.91), subscapular skinfold thickness (2.21), height (1.92), uric acid (2.06), inorganic phosphate (0.50), and family history of hypertension (1.82). None of the ion transport or concentration measurements ws associated with an increased risk of hypertension. 
Phylloides tumor: findings on mammography, sonography, and aspiration cytology in 10 cases. Phylloides tumor is a rare fibroepithelial breast tumor that occasionally has unpredictable clinical behavior. In nine cases of histologically benign tumors and one case of malignant phylloides tumor, the findings on physical examination, mammography, sonography, and aspiration biopsy were correlated retrospectively with the histologic diagnosis of resected specimens. Mammograms showed a round or lobulated benign-appearing opacity in nine cases; one small tumor was missed mammographically. Sonography depicted all tumors as mostly solid masses. Sonographic features included low-level internal echoes, either uniform or scattered; smooth contours; and no significant posterior shadowing. Intramural cysts were shown in six cases. Neither mammography nor sonography allowed reliable differentiation between benign and malignant phylloides tumors. Aspiration biopsy permitted accurate diagnosis of seven benign tumors. The malignant phylloides tumor was classified as a malignant tumor, but the definite differentiation from a carcinoma could not be made. Two histologically benign phylloides tumors were misdiagnosed as carcinomas. Although uncommon, phylloides tumor should be considered in the differential diagnosis of mammographically benign-appearing breast masses, especially if sonography shows intramural cysts within a well-defined solid lesion. Aspiration cytology is unreliable because of the inhomogeneity of the tumor; both intraoperative frozen section and permanent sections are needed for correct histologic diagnosis. 
Elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein and mild fetal uropathy. Sixty-one consecutive patients referred because of elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP) levels and 80 referred for second-trimester ultrasound for other reasons were examined. Ultrasound examination of the genitourinary tract and assignment of phenotypic sex was done by ultrasonographers blinded to the MSAFP results. Among male fetuses with elevated MSAFP, 33% had pyelectasis compared with only 5% of controls. Among female fetuses, pyelectasis was seen in 16% of cases and no controls. Increased MSAFP not caused by an open neural tube defect may be seen in conjunction with mild benign uropathy in the second trimester. 
Allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia in the chronic phase: a randomized trial of two irradiation regimens. A randomized trial was performed to compare two regimens of total body irradiation in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia treated by allogeneic marrow transplantation while in the chronic phase. All patients received cyclophosphamide 120 mg/kg followed by total body irradiation and marrow from HLA-identical siblings. Cyclosporine and methotrexate were used for prophylaxis against acute graft-versus-host disease. Fifty-seven patients were randomized to receive 2.0 Gy fractions of irradiation daily for 6 days and 59 were randomized to receive 2.25 Gy fractions daily for 7 days. The probabilities of relapse at 4 years were 0.25 for the 12.0 Gy group and 0.00 for the 15.75 Gy group (P = .008). The actuarial probabilities of survival and relapse-free survival at 4 years were 0.60 and 0.58 among the patients who received 12.0 Gy compared with 0.66 and 0.66 for those who received 15.75 Gy. The 4-year probabilities of transplant-related mortality were 0.24 and 0.34 respectively (P = .13) while the probability of moderate to severe acute graft-versus-host disease was 0.33 for the 12.0 Gy group and 0.44 for the 15.75 Gy group (P = .15). The lower relapse probability in the patients receiving the higher dose of total body irradiation did not result in improved survival because mortality from causes other than relapse was increased. 
A double-blind trial of tamoxifen plus prednisolone versus tamoxifen plus placebo in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. A collaborative trial of the North Central Cancer Treatment Group and Mayo Clinic. This trial was conducted to determine if the reported superiority of tamoxifen (TAM) plus prednisolone (PRDLN) over TAM alone in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer could be corroborated. A total of 326 patients were randomized on a double-blind trial to TAM (10 mg twice daily) plus placebo or TAM plus PRDLN (5 mg twice daily). Six patients (2%) were disqualified. Considering 256 patients with measurable or evaluable disease, objective responses were seen in 48 (38%) of 126 TAM patients and 61 (47%) of 130 TAM plus PRDLN patients (chi-square, P = 0.15). Considering all 320 evaluated patients, median time to disease progression was 11 months for TAM and 10 months for TAM plus PRDLN (log rank, P = 0.81), and median survival time was 35 and 32 months, respectively (P = 0.40). Covariate analyses showed no significant association between treatment and outcome. Weight gain and edema were significantly greater with TAM plus PRDLN. The addition of PRDLN to TAM is not advocated for the management of postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. 
Preclinical detection of Parkinson's disease: biochemical approaches. Dysfunction of NADH: ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) of the mitochondrial electron transport chain has been linked to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. While simple assays of complex I activity are unlikely to be useful in the preclinical detection of Parkinson's disease, other more sophisticated physical-chemical approaches including detection of free radical damage may have utility. Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy may provide a useful model system for development of such strategies. 
Incidence of new primary cancers after adjuvant tamoxifen therapy and radiotherapy for early breast cancer. The incidence of new primary cancers was evaluated in 3538 postmenopausal patients who had received surgical treatment for primary breast cancer. Of these patients, 1828 with a low risk of recurrence received no further treatment. High-risk patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups. The first group (n = 846) received postoperative radiotherapy, while the second group (n = 864) received radiotherapy plus tamoxifen at a dose of 30 mg given daily for 48 weeks. The median observation time was 7.9 years. In comparison with the number of new cancers in the general population, the number of new cancers in the three groups was elevated mostly due to a high number of cancers of the contralateral breast and of colorectal cancers in the high-risk groups. The cumulative risk of nonlymphatic leukemia was increased among patients who received postoperative radiotherapy (P = .04). Cancer incidence in the high-risk tamoxifen-treated group relative to that in the high-risk group not treated with tamoxifen was not significant (1.3). No protective effect of tamoxifen on the opposite breast was seen (rate ratio for breast cancer = 1.1), but a tendency to an elevated risk of endometrial cancer was observed (rate ratio = 3.3; 95% confidence interval = 0.6-32.4). Continued and careful follow-up of women treated with tamoxifen is necessary to clarify the potential cancer-suppressive or cancer-promoting effects of this drug. 
Fibrinolytic activity of the arms and legs of patients with lower limb venous disease. Clearance of subcutaneous 125I-labelled fibrin was prolonged from the legs but not from the arms of patients with uncomplicated varicose veins and patients with healed ulcers, compared with controls. The euglobulin clot lysis time (ECLT) of blood from the arms and legs of those with healed ulcers was prolonged; venous congestion significantly shortened the ECLT of blood from all limbs except legs with healed ulcers. The clearance of interstitial fibrin of both legs and arms correlated with the response of the ECLT to venous congestion (P less than 0.05). The clearance of interstitial 125I-labelled albumin in five patients with healed ulcers was faster from the legs than from the arms, whereas the clearance of interstitial 125I-labelled fibrin was faster from the arms in all cases. These results suggest that there is a defect in interstitial fibrinolytic activity as well as vein wall production of plasminogen activator in legs with chronic venous insufficiency. 
Evaluation of epiglottoplasty as treatment for severe laryngomalacia [published erratum appears in J Pediatr 1991 Jan;118(1):168] Six patients with severe laryngomalacia underwent epiglottoplasty. Four of these patients had life-threatening episodes of airway obstruction before surgery; of these, two had required tracheal intubation and one had required cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Two patients had failure to thrive and two had cor pulmonale. Patients had required a mean of two hospitalizations related to upper airway obstruction. We performed polysomnography during a daytime nap, both before and after epiglottoplasty, in all patients. Respiratory effort, arterial oxygen saturation, and end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure were monitored with continuous electrocardiograms and electrooculograms. All patients had abnormal polysomnograms preoperatively. Six patients had obstructive apnea, four had hypoxemia (arterial oxygen saturation less than 90% while breathing room air), and four had hypoventilation (end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure greater than 45 mm Hg) before epiglottoplasty. Mean age (+/- SEM) at epiglottoplasty was 10.3 +/- 5.3 months. No patients had surgical complications. An endotracheal tube was in place for 25 +/- 7 hours postoperatively, and patients were discharged 4 +/- 1 days postoperatively. Polysomnography performed 2.8 +/- 1.0 months after surgery showed that all patients had improved. Two patients had residual, mild episodes of obstructive apnea, and one patient had mild hypoventilation and desaturation. No patient had further life-threatening events or required further hospitalizations after epiglottoplasty. We conclude that epiglottoplasty is an effective and safe treatment for a selected group of patients with severe laryngomalacia. 
Uncommon neurologic complications of burns in infants: a parkinsonian extrapyramidal disorder and massive cerebral infarction. We report uncommon neurologic complications of moderate to severe burns in two infants aged 13 and 19 months, respectively. The first patient suffered a 25% total body surface area burn to her lower limbs; 3 days later she became mute and irritable, with increasing rigidity of limbs and trunk. Her face was expressionless and she also had mild dysphagea. Muscle-stretch reflexes were brisk and accompanied by episodes of coarse jitteriness. A diagnosis of an extrapyramidal parkinsonian disorder was made. The infant was treated with amantadine hydrochloride, and she recovered completely over a period of 2 months. The second infant was admitted with an extensive burn to his trunk and limbs; 3 days later he became comatose and had intractable seizures, which were more prominent over his right side. Dysphasia and right-sided hemiplegia became apparent; these conditions were and remained permanent, accompanied by focal seizures and a marked cognitive delay. Although relatively uncommon, central nervous system involvement may be a hazardous complication of burns in infants, who thus represent a high-risk group. 
Ambulatory blood pressure variation is related to plasma renin activity in borderline hypertensive men. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between the variability of awake ambulatory blood pressure and the level of plasma renin activity (PRA) in age-matched samples of untreated hypertensive white men. The ambulatory pressures of 376 men (145 under 45 years of age, 231 over 45) were compared across three levels of PRA: less than 1.0 ng/mL/h, 1.0 to 4.0 ng/mL/h and 4.0 ng/mL/h or greater. The results showed that the average diastolic pressure declined with PRA, particularly in men under 45 (95 to 89; P less than .05), but that among the men 45 and older there was a strong, positive relationship between awake diastolic pressure variability and the level of PRA (p less than .001). These results may have important clinical implications since both higher PRA and greater blood pressure variability have been associated with a greater cardiovascular disease risk. 
Postoperative deficits and functional recovery following removal of tumors involving the dominant hemisphere supplementary motor area. The supplementary motor area (SMA) is a region located within each cerebral hemisphere at the posterior mesial border of the frontal lobe adjacent to the falx. The functional significance of this area has been somewhat unclear, and information regarding its influence on motor output has largely been based on evoked responses to direct stimulation in primates and humans. In this series of patients with primary and metastatic tumors involving the dominant hemisphere SMA, a distinct pattern of postoperative deficits and recovery has emerged which emphasizes the role of this critical area in the initiation of motor activity, including speech. Based upon this analysis, ablation of this region after first identifying the primary motor cortex may be accomplished without risk of permanent loss of motor activity or speech function, despite the initial severe deficits. 
Wilderness emergency medical services: the experiences at Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. This article describes the National Park Service wilderness emergency medical services (EMS) system, as implemented at Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park. EMS records on all 434 patients in the period from August 1, 1986, to July 31, 1987, were reviewed. Most patients had minor problems. Overall, 77% of patients contacting the EMS system were released at the scene, and base hospital contact was made in only 28% of cases. However, there were three deaths, 44 (10%) patients who received advanced life support, and 292 (67%) patients who received basic life support. Seven patients who received advanced life support were released without transport. Decisions regarding scope of practice in a low-volume, wilderness EMS system are complicated by long transport times and problems with skills maintenance. Differences between the times and problems with skills maintenance. Differences between the patients treated by a wilderness system and those seen in most urban systems may make it appropriate to release a greater portion of patients without ambulance transport. In a system with long response and transport times, use of personnel with different training than in the urban setting becomes necessary. 
Hypothalamic amenorrhea: clinical perspectives, pathophysiology, and management. The development of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea reflects an individual's response to environmental stressors and life-style variables. In this disorder there are no detectable anatomic abnormalities with respect to the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-endometrial axis. Current evidence suggests that the common underlying defect is a decrease in the activity of the hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulse generator. Of the neuroendocrine factors that appear to regulate gonadotropin-releasing hormone activity, the opiate and dopamine neuronal systems have been implicated as factors that are responsible in part for the decreased secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. Because of the functional nature of this disorder, reactivation of the hypothalamic-pituitary unit would be expected to take place in most women after accommodation to environmental stressors or modification in life-style. For women with persistent anovulation, treatment with estrogen-replacement therapy should be offered. In those desiring fertility, ovulation induction with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone would be the most effective modality. 
Defective presentation of endogenous antigens by a murine sarcoma. Implications for the failure of an anti-tumor immune response. MHC class I-restricted CTL play a central role in the immune response against methylcholanthrene (MCA)-induced sarcomas in mice. We, therefore, hypothesized that MCA-induced tumors may evade immune recognition by failing to present Ag to CD8+ CTL. Of a number of previously described MCA-induced sarcomas, one, MCA 101, fails to induce CTL, is nonimmunogenic, and grows rapidly and lethally in nonimmunosuppressed recipients. To better understand the nonimmunogenicity of MCA 101 we examined its ability to present foreign Ag to CTL. Unlike immunogenic sarcomas, MCA 101 failed to present endogenously synthesized influenza virus Ag to influenza virus-specific CTL. The deficiency in presentation of endogenous Ag by MCA 101 was attributed to a markedly reduced rate of synthesis of class I molecules because up-regulation of class I synthesis by IFN-gamma greatly increased the presentation of influenza A virus Ag. Despite low levels of cell surface class I expression, MCA 101 presented exogenous peptide Ag to anti-influenza CTL with efficiency similar to immunogenic MCA sarcoma cell lines. These findings could not be attributed to deficiencies in class I assembly or transport, as has been suggested by others who have studied mutant cells with defective Ag presentation. Furthermore, our studies suggest that some tumor cells can escape recognition by CTL and subsequent immune eradication by suppressing presentation of endogenous Ag. 
Frequency of deep venous thrombosis in asymptomatic patients with coronary artery bypass grafts. The frequency of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery has not been established. Therefore to estimate the frequency of clinically silent DVT, we performed ultrasound examinations of the leg veins in 29 asymptomatic CABG patients before hospital discharge. We used high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography with color Doppler imaging. Fourteen (48.3%, 95% confidence interval 30.1 to 66.4%) had 20 documented leg vein thromboses, and all but one patient had DVT limited to the calf veins. Of the 20 thrombi 10 (50.0%) were present in the leg ipsilateral and 10 (50.0%) in the leg contralateral to the saphenous vein harvest site. None of the DVTs were suspected clinically. DVT was not associated with any local sign attributed to saphenous vein harvest such as pitting edema, incisional drainage, or local tenderness or with any putative risk factor for DVT such as cigarette use, distant history of malignancy, or varicose veins. Follow-up of these patients 5 to 11 months after CABG surgery showed no clinical evidence of DVT or pulmonary embolism. Our findings indicate that asymptomatic DVT of the calf occurs with surprisingly high frequency, 44.8% after CABG surgery. Future studies in patients undergoing CABG surgery should address the natural history of asymptomatic DVT, determine its clinical importance, and develop optimal strategies for prophylaxis and treatment. 
Effect of dietary NaCl on norepinephrine turnover in the Dahl rat. To evaluate neural mechanisms in salt-sensitive hypertension, norepinephrine turnover rates were measured in peripheral tissues and selected brain areas of Dahl salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats receiving either 1% or 7% NaCl diets for 5 weeks. Norepinephrine turnover was determined by measuring tissue norepinephrine in untreated animals or in separate groups killed 2, 4, 6, and 10 hours after alpha-methyl-tyrosine. Plasma volume (radiolabeled albumin) was also measured. Arterial pressure of Dahl S rats receiving 7% NaCl (167 +/- 4 mm Hg) was higher (p less than 0.001) than that of Dahl S rats receiving 1% NaCl (141 +/- 3mm Hg), which was higher (p less than 0.001) than that of Dahl R rats receiving both NaCl intakes. Norepinephrine turnover was increased (p less than 0.01) by 7% NaCl in both heart and brown adipose tissue in Dahl S rats, whereas norepinephrine turnover in Dahl R rats was decreased (p less than 0.01) by the 7% NaCl intake in the heart and kidney. On the high NaCl intake, norepinephrine turnover in heart and adipose tissue was lower (p less than 0.05) in Dahl R rats than in Dahl S rats. In brain stem tissue, with the 1% NaCl diet, norepinephrine turnover was higher (p less than 0.001) in Dahl S rats than in Dahl R rats, and norepinephrine turnover was inhibited (p less than 0.001) by the high NaCl intake in Dahl S rats but not in Dahl R rats. In posterior hypothalamus, norepinephrine turnover was inhibited (p less than 0.01) by the high NaCl intake in Dahl R rats but not in Dahl S rats. 
Impaired phonological reading in primary degenerative dementia. This case study reports the profile of preserved and impaired capacities in a left-handed patient suffering from primary degenerative dementia of unknown aetiology. She was remarkable because her relatively preserved object naming and semantic categorization abilities contrasted with severe deficits in speech fluency, oral reading, inability to execute spoken and written commands, and severely impaired auditory-verbal short-term memory. Her reading disorder could be characterized as a disturbance of assembled phonology. She had great difficulty reading pronounceable nonwords, but she could correctly read irregular words. She showed effects of word imageability or concreteness (more than word frequency). She also showed effects of part-of-speech, where nouns and adjectives were read more easily than inflected verbs. She had difficulty reading function words. The syntactic category effects could be proven (by hierarchical log-linear analysis) not to be an artefact of imageability differences between verbs, adjectives and nouns. In reading aloud she made visual and morphological errors, but no semantic errors. This interesting pattern of preserved semantic information and disrupted phonological processing is unusual in dementia and contrasts with the severe dysnomia of patients with surface dyslexia who are able to read by the indirect, assembly-of-phonology route and show better reading of nonwords than irregular words. Her reading by a direct visual-semantic route appeared to be associated with relatively intact object naming, concrete word reading, and irregular word reading. This selective impairment of phonological reading in the context of partly preserved semantic abilities was interpreted as confirmation of the dissociability of language functions in primary degenerative dementia. 
Effect of P6 acupressure on postoperative vomiting in children undergoing outpatient strabismus correction. A prospective, double-blind study was conducted to compare the effect of pressure at the P6 (Neikuan) point with placebo as an antiemetic in children. Sixty-six patients, ages 3-12 yr, undergoing outpatient surgery for correction of strabismus, were allocated randomly to receive either bilateral P6 acupressure or placebo during the perioperative period. The study was designed to detect a 50% difference in the incidence of postoperative vomiting between the two groups, with a 90% power of achieving a statistically significant result at the 5% level (two-tailed). The incidence of postoperative vomiting for the placebo group was 58% before discharge from hospital, 73% at home and 82% in the first 24 h after surgery. The corresponding results for the acupressure group were 58% before discharge, 71% at home and 94% in the first 24 h. These differences were not significant; P6 acupressure did not reduce the incidence of postoperative vomiting in children undergoing strabismus surgery. 
The administration of folic acid to institutionalized epileptic adults with phenytoin-induced gingival hyperplasia. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel study. Twenty severely retarded institutionalized epileptic adults with phenytoin-induced gingival hyperplasia were divided into two groups and received a daily 3 mg capsule of either folic acid or lactose for 16 weeks in a randomized, double-blind, parallel study. Serum folate and phenytoin levels were recorded at baseline and on completion of the study. Twelve areas of the gingiva on each patient were graded at 4-week intervals for 16 weeks with respect to the three indexes: hyperplasia, gingival health, and plaque index. There were no significant differences between treatment groups for any of the three indexes over time. The poststudy serum folate levels were three times baseline levels for the active drug group (p less than 0.001) but unchanged in the placebo group. Phenytoin blood levels that began within the therapeutic window (10 to 20 micrograms/ml) tended to remain within the therapeutic window for both groups, with no reported seizure activity. A single daily oral 3 mg capsule of folic acid did not show efficacy as the sole therapeutic agent in the reduction of phenytoin-induced gingival hyperplasia. 
Presenting a diagnosis of cancer: patients' views BACKGROUND. Although in general, patients in the United States are now told if they have been diagnosed as having cancer, little information is available either about the way in which this is done or about patients' satisfaction with how they are told. METHODS. Thirty-two patients were interviewed who had been given a diagnosis of cancer; one half were being treated at a comprehensive cancer center and one half at a community hospital. The study instrument, presented in a semistructured interview conducted by psychosocial clinicians, included specific questions about the setting and the manner in which the patients were told, their reactions to the diagnosis, and their suggestions of how physicians should inform others who have to be informed of a similar diagnosis. RESULTS. All patients were told of their diagnosis by a physician; 84% of the time the diagnosis was given in person. Patients said that being told with hope, information, and caring, and with respect for their privacy and wishes to have a supportive person present were particularly helpful. Almost 40% of patients reported at the time of the interview that their hopes were directed toward remission and optimal quality of life rather than toward a cure. Four of the six patients whose conditions had initially been misdiagnosed described subsequent mistrust of information received from physicians. CONCLUSIONS. These findings confirm the importance of a physician providing hope for and fostering trust in patients to whom they are presenting the diagnosis of cancer. The results indicate that physicians' help in providing treatment information contributes more to hope than does cheerfulness or optimism, and that patients who have been given a misdiagnosis require special consideration in order to reestablish trust. 
Later recurrence and longer survival among obese patients with renal cell carcinoma. To investigate the effect of obesity at diagnosis on prognosis of renal cell carcinoma, 360 renal cell carcinoma patients newly diagnosed at 29 hospitals in Oklahoma between January 1, 1981 and December 31, 1984 were followed through December 31, 1987. The Cox proportional-hazard model was used to estimate the hazard ratio, adjusting for other potentially prognostic factors. Both the disease-free interval and the overall survival were longer in patients who were obese (greater than or equal to 120% standard body mass index) at diagnosis. The adjusted-hazard ratio for disease recurrence between obese and nonobese patients was 0.43 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.19 to 0.98). The obese patients had an adjusted death hazard rate 0.68 times that of the nonobese patients (95% CI, 0.38 to 1.22). Although obesity was reported to increase the risk for renal cell carcinoma, prognosis was no worse and may be better among obese patients with the disease. 
The alkalinisation of bupivacaine for intercostal nerve blockade [published erratum appears in Anaesthesia 1991 Aug;46(8):707] A double-blind randomised study was performed to investigate the effect of pH adjustment of bupivacaine, with adrenaline 1:200,000, on the duration of block and pain relief after intercostal nerve blockade following thoracotomy. One group (n = 10) received bupivacaine with adrenaline 1:200,000 (pH = 4.1) and the other (n = 10) received alkalinised bupivacaine with adrenaline 1:200,000 (pH = 6.9). There was no significant difference in block duration (mean 23.9 and 26.4 hours respectively) visual analogue pain scores or morphine usage. Patients were more likely to have a block during the first 12 hours if they received alkalinised bupivacaine (p less than 0.01, Chi-squared test). A progressive regression of block, not previously described, was observed, explicable by means of spread of local anaesthesia to adjacent intercostal nerves. Alkalinisation of bupivacaine with adrenaline for intercostal nerve blockade has little clinical benefit. 
Gastroesophageal reflux and upper airway diseases. GER can have important impacts on the upper airway passages, and in turn, upper airway obstruction can certainly aggravate reflux. This relationship should be considered in the newborn or young infant, faced with a sudden life-threatening event, and in the older child or adult presenting with chronic head and neck complaints, either unexplained or unresponsive to adequate medical therapy. A causal relationship may be difficult to establish, based first on clinical expertise as a guideline, on laboratory tests, among which pharyngeal pH monitoring could be promising, and on response to medical antireflux therapy. A better understanding of the significance of high levels of reflux and defective acid clearance, as well as a more precise knowledge of the maturation and functioning of upper airway protective mechanisms, would open the way to more accurate diagnostic procedures, to a more reliable definition of the abnormal, and to greater efficiency in the management of these patients. 
Variations in anatomy of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel: pitfalls in the diagnosis of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. Two processes account for most instances of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow: compression in the retroepicondylar groove, and compression by the humeroulnar aponeurotic arcade joining the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. While conventional electrodiagnostic criteria may localize an ulnar neuropathy to the elbow, separating retroepicondylar compression from humeroulnar arcade compression is more difficult. In 130 cadaver elbows, we examined the relationships between the medial epicondyle, flexor carpi ulnaris, and ulnar nerve. The humeroulnar arcade lay from 3 to 20 mm distal to the medial epicondyle, the intramuscular course of the nerve through the flexor carpi ulnaris ranged from 18 to 70 mm, and the nerve exited the flexor carpi ulnaris 28 to 69 mm distal to the medial epicondyle. In 6 specimens, dense fibrous bands bridged directly between the medial epicondyle and the olecranon proximal to the cubital tunnel proper; accessory epitrochleoanconeus muscles were present in 14 specimens: both may cause ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. Anatomical variations may contribute to the difficulty in separating causes of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. 
Colonic hyperproliferation induced in rats and mice by nutritional-stress diets containing four components of a human Western-style diet (series 2). In a previous study colonic hyperplasia and hyperproliferation were induced in mice and rats by a nutritional-stress diet, based on the AIN-76A semisynthetic diet modified to contain four suggested high-risk components of the human Western-style diet: increased fat and phosphate and decreased calcium and vitamin D contents. In this study the effect of raising calcium alone to near the median level (0.22 mg/kcal) and to a high level (1.3 mg/kcal), comparable to adult human dietary intake, was tested in mice and rats while retaining the three other high-risk components. With median calcium intake the nutritional-stress diet induced hyperproliferation of epithelial cells in colonic crypts, with increased numbers of proliferating cells in crypt columns in sigmoid colon of mice (P less than 0.001) and rats (P = 0.02) and in the ascending colon of mice (P = 0.01). With high calcium intake, hyperproliferation was reduced almost to control amounts in the presence of unchanged fat, phosphate, and vitamin D. 
Human articular cartilage and chondrocytes produce hemopoietic colony-stimulating factors in culture in response to IL-1. The hemopoietic CSF, granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF) and granulocyte CSF (G-CSF), are cytokines that mediate the clonal proliferation and differentiation of progenitor cells into mature macrophages and/or granulocytes. We have employed an all-human cell culture system, specific ELISA for GM-CSF and G-CSF, and Northern analysis to investigate whether chondrocytes are a potential source of CSF in rheumatoid disease. We report that human rIL-1 stimulated in a dose-dependent manner the production of GM-CSF and G-CSF by human articular cartilage and chondrocyte monolayers in organ and cell culture, respectively. Increased levels of the CSF Ag were detected after 2 to 8 h stimulation with IL-1, and the optimum dose of IL-1 was 10 to 100 U/ml (0.06 to 0.6 nM IL-1 alpha; 0.02 to 0.2 nM IL-1 beta); neither CSF was detectable in nonstimulated cultures nor in IL-1-stimulated cultures treated with actinomycin D or cycloheximide, indicating the requirement for de novo RNA and protein synthesis. The IL-1-mediated increase in GM-CSF could also be inhibited by the corticosteroid, dexamethasone, but not by the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin. Although having little effect when tested alone, TNF-alpha and lymphotoxin (TNF-beta) could synergize with IL-1 for the production of GM-CSF. Basic fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, and IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma each had no effect on GM-CSF levels. Results obtained by Northern analysis of chondrocyte total RNA reflected those found for the CSF Ag, namely that CSF mRNA levels were elevated in response to IL-1, but not TNF, and that there was synergy between these two cytokines. We propose that chondrocyte CSF production in response to IL-1, and the concurrent destruction of cartilage by IL-1, could provide a mechanism for the chronic nature of rheumatoid disease. 
Heterogeneous interference of nicardipine, verapamil, and diltiazem with forearm arteriolar responsiveness to adrenergic stimulation in hypertensive patients. The interference of intraarterial nicardipine, verapamil, and diltiazem with the forearm vascular response to graded exogenous norepinephrine was evaluated in hypertensive patients. Nicardipine antagonized the vasoconstrictor effect of norepinephrine in a dose-dependent manner, whereas verapamil was ineffective, suggesting that functional alpha-adrenergic antagonism may participate in the vasodilatory and possibly the antihypertensive effect. Nicardipine also blunted the vasoconstriction to lower-body negative pressure and the action of angiotensin II administered intraarterially. Despite a comparable increase in basal forearm flow, verapamil was less potent than nicardipine in inhibiting vasoconstriction after both stimuli. Therefore nicardipine suppressed preferentially regional vascular reactivity, probably by blockade of the influx of extracellular calcium in response to receptor activation, because both alpha-adrenergic and angiotensin II receptor-mediated vasoconstrictor responses were attenuated. At variance with both nicardipine and verapamil was potentiation of the responses to norepinephrine after the administration of diltiazem. Because intraarterial propranolol abolished that potentiating action and the local vasodilatation to isoproterenol was clearly reduced, diltiazem probably interfered also with beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated vasorelaxing mechanisms in human forearm arterioles. The data further stress the heterogeneity of calcium channel blockers in humans. 
Gastrocolic fistula with pyloric stenosis and benign gastric ulcer. We have reported a case of gastrocolic fistula with gastric outlet obstruction as a complication of benign gastric ulcer. The single-stage surgical procedure described resulted in a successful outcome. Benign gastric ulcer currently appears to be the most prevalent cause of gastrocolic fistula. 
Giant adult malignant sacrococcygeal teratoma. Successful treatment by combined abdominosacral resection. This report describes the successful removal of the largest adult sacrococcygeal teratoma (18.75 kg) the authors could find on record. The patient was 58 years of age. The tumor had been present at birth and had been biopsied at the time of her cesarean section 34 years earlier without further treatment. Special planning was necessary for moving and positioning the patient for operation to prevent injury due to the size and weight of the tumor. A combined abdominosacral resection with preliminary ligation of the internal iliac arteries and a diversionary colostomy were performed without difficulty or undue blood loss. The defect was closed primarily and drained. The tumor proved to be malignant on pathologic examination. 
Polycystic ovarian disease: contribution of vaginal endosonography and reassessment of ultrasonic diagnosis. OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the superiority of vaginal ultrasonography (US) on the abdominal US for the diagnosis of polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD). DESIGN: The US pattern of ovaries was prospectively investigated by abdominal US and, whenever possible, by vaginal US. SETTING: Primary care, institutional. PATIENTS: One hundred forty-four women in whom PCOD was suspected on endocrine grounds and 62 other patients presenting with primary hyperprolactinemia (n = 23) or hypothalamic anovulation (n = 39). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Vaginal US allowed a better analysis of the ovarian stroma. RESULTS: The external ovarian features of PCOD were observed by both routes in less than one third of the 144 patients with PCOD. The internal ovarian features of PCOD were much more frequently observed by vaginal US than by abdominal US (polycystic pattern: 66.7% versus 38.1%, P less than 0.05; increased ovarian stroma: 57.1% versus 4.8%, P less than 0.001). In the 62 patients without PCOD, US features of PCOD were observed in less than 10% of them, except for the uterine width/ovarian length ratio less than 1 and the polycystic pattern (abdominal US: 17% and 34%; vaginal US: 11% and 50%, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: An increased ovarian stroma seems to be the most sensitive and specific US sign of PCOD, providing that it can be investigated by vaginal US. 
A randomized, controlled study of behavioral intervention for chemotherapy distress in children with cancer. Fifty-four pediatric cancer patients were studied to determine the relative efficacy of two forms of behavioral intervention for reducing chemotherapy-related distress. Following baseline assessment, subjects were randomly assigned to receive either hypnosis, non-hypnotic distraction/relaxation, or attention placebo (control) during the subsequent identical chemotherapy course. Observational and interview measures of anticipatory and postchemotherapy nausea, vomiting, distress, and functional disruption served as outcome data. Results indicated that treatment condition was the single best predictor of change from baseline to intervention, with children in the hypnosis group reporting the greatest reduction of both anticipatory and postchemotherapy symptoms. The cognitive distraction/relaxation intervention appeared to have a maintenance effect in which symptoms did not get much worse or much better, while children in the control group had symptoms that consistently became worse over time. Emetic potential of the chemotherapy and the prophylactic use of antiemetics each appeared to contribute to the overall severity of symptoms. While the efficacy of hypnosis in the management of chemotherapy distress is supported, the complexities of interacting biologic and psychologic factors are highlighted. 
The cold-knife technique for endourological management of stenoses in the upper urinary tract. Between 1985 and October 1989 we managed 13 patients with primary and 43 with secondary obstruction of the upper urinary tract with the endourological cold-knife technique. We treated 26 patients with stenosis of the ureteropelvic junction, 9 with infundibular stenosis, 12 with ureteral obstruction after inflammation or radiation therapy, 7 with stricture of the ureter in kidney transplants and 2 with stenosis of the ureter after ureterosigmoidostomy. Endourological management was successful in 42 of 56 cases with a decrease or total elimination of obstruction. Stenosis recurred in 9 patients. Our results indicate that the cold-knife technique should be attempted as the initial approach in all cases of primary or secondary obstruction of the upper urinary tract. 
Morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in family members of patients with malignant and nonmalignant hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver diseases. Three-hundred forty-one HBsAg-positive family members of 152 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection (47 asymptomatic carriers, 59 with chronic hepatitis, 17 with cirrhosis and 29 with hepatocellular carcinoma) were prospectively studied to determine the morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in the family members of patients with malignant and nonmalignant hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver diseases. Most of the family members had no history of acute hepatitis, were asymptomatic and were unaware of their carrier status. However, 5.3% had stigmata of chronic liver disease, 6% had serum ALT levels that exceeded two times the upper limit of normal and 78% of those who had biopsies had chronic hepatitis with or without cirrhosis. During a follow-up period of 12 to 90 mo (median = 39 mo), 3% had symptoms of chronic liver disease; 24% had transient, recurrent or persistent elevation in serum ALT levels, 1.4% had cirrhosis and 1% had hepatocellular carcinoma. Neither hepatocellular carcinoma in the index patient nor a previous history of hepatocellular carcinoma in the family was associated with an increase in the morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in the HBsAg-positive family members. 
Rules of language. Language and cognition have been explained as the products of a homogeneous associative memory structure or alternatively, of a set of genetically determined computational modules in which rules manipulate symbolic representations. Intensive study of one phenomenon of English grammar and how it is processed and acquired suggest that both theories are partly right. Regular verbs (walk-walked) are computed by a suffixation rule in a neural system for grammatical processing; irregular verbs (run-ran) are retrieved from an associative memory. 
Role of renal sympathetic nerve activity in renal failure associated with obstructive jaundice in the rat. The propensity for renal failure associated with obstructive jaundice and liver disease may be related to enhanced vasoconstriction of the renal vascular bed with resultant decreases in renal blood flow. Renal sympathetic nervous activity may be a mediator of this effect. The increased renal production of prostaglandins which has been observed in previous models of bile duct ligation may serve to counterbalance the effects of such vasoconstricting influences. This study was undertaken to assess the effect of bile duct ligation on renal function and prostaglandin production in the rat. Furthermore, this study was designed to determine if renal sympathetic nerve activity contributes to the development of renal failure after bile duct ligation. Sprague-Dawley rats underwent either sham operation (n = 8), bilateral renal denervation (n = 10), bile duct ligation alone (n = 11), or bile duct ligation and bilateral renal denervation (n = 10). Renal function was assessed before and 4 days after operation. Bile duct ligation resulted in a 46% decrease in creatinine clearance (p less than 0.01), a 33% decrease in urinary sodium excretion (p less than 0.01), a twofold increase in urine flow (p less than 0.01), and twofold increases in urinary excretion of PGE2, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, and thromboxane B2 (p less than 0.01). Renal denervation did not prevent the decreases in creatinine clearance and sodium excretion seen after bile duct ligation and had no effect on the changes in urine flow and prostaglandin excretion. These findings demonstrate that bile duct ligation in the rat results in impaired renal function, accompanied by increases in renal prostaglandin production. In addition, this study indicates that the perturbations in renal function and renal prostaglandin production induced by bile duct ligation are not mediated by renal sympathetic nerve activity. 
Human papillomavirus DNA in anal carcinomas. Comparison of in situ and dot blot hybridization. Because the sensitivities of individual hybridization techniques differ considerably, their role in accounting for the published frequencies of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in anal squamous cell carcinomas, ranging from 0 to 61%, must be investigated. With the use of biotinylated probes to HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, and 33, three hybridization techniques were performed on the same paraffin-embedded tissue blocks selected from 13 cases of anal squamous cell carcinoma. HPV DNA was detected in 0%, 62%, and 85% of cases with the use of in situ hybridization with horseradish peroxidase, in situ hybridization with alkaline phosphatase, and dot blot hybridization, respectively. By dot blot hybridization, 69% had HPV 16/6 and 15% had HPV 6/11. An HPV DNA frequency range of 0-85% in the same group of tumors with the use of three hybridization techniques indicates the influential role of the method on HPV DNA prevalences. HPV DNA was identified regardless of patient gender or type of squamous cell carcinoma. The presence of HPV 16 in 82% of the positive cases in supportive evidence of the carcinogenic role of the HPV in anal squamous cell carcinoma. 
Depression, chronic fatigue, and the premenstrual syndrome. Depression, chronic fatigue, and premenstrual syndrome often coexist in women seeking treatment for premenstrual distress. A reliable diagnosis can be made by prospectively rating symptoms for two cycles, taking a careful history, performing physical and gynecologic examinations, and obtaining basic laboratory test results and a psychosocial evaluation. Appropriate dietary, hormonal, or antidepressant treatment provided in a caring and competent manner can benefit many women suffering from this otherwise disabling/condition. 
Usefulness of a writing device in writer's cramp. Fifteen of 20 patients with writer's cramp treated with a writing device noted an improvement in their writing ability, some quite marked. Despite this benefit, nine patients preferred to use alternate methods. In the absence of adverse effects, we suggest that trials of writing devices be the first recourse for all patients with writer's cramp requiring treatment. 
Cryptosporidiosis of the biliary tract in AIDS. Cryptosporidiosis of the biliary system was studied retrospectively in 13 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The diagnosis was made by means of histologic examination (n = 9) or imaging studies and the presence of intestinal cryptosporidiosis (n = 4). Imaging studies were done in 10 patients. Ultrasound (US) and computed tomography (CT) showed dilatation of the biliary ducts, some with wall thickening, thickening of the gallbladder wall and pericholecystic fluid. Cholangiograms showed attenuation and pruning of the intrahepatic bile ducts, some with beading and dilatation of the common bile duct. Three patients had papillary stenosis. Numerous Cryptosporidium organisms were found in three resected gallbladders and in the biliary ducts of seven patients in whom autopsy was performed, accompanied by an exuberant inflammatory response. Correlation of the radiologic and pathologic findings establishes a direct etiologic role of Cryptosporidium as one of the major infectious agents in cholangitis associated with AIDS. 
Magnetic resonance imaging in preterm infants. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 9 preterm infants at 37-43 weeks postmenstrual age. They all were born at 26-35 weeks gestation. Myelination was graded according to its most cephalic location. Myelination pattern 2 (myelination observed in the posterior limb of the internal capsule and adjacent structures of the thalamus and lenticular nucleus) was demonstrated in 2 infants, pattern 3 (myelination of the corona radiata) in 3 infants, and pattern 4 (myelination of the centrum semiovale) in 4 infants. Bilateral low intensity areas were found on T1-weighted images in 7 infants and a ribbon-like, high intensity was observed in 5. These findings revealed a wide variety of magnetic resonance imaging appearance in apparently normal preterm infants. Caution is needed in interpreting the pathologic nature of such features in preterm infants during the perinatal period. 
Impact of changing attitudes in carotid surgery on community hospital practice. In 1985, institutional guidelines for the evaluation and performance of carotid surgery were established in our community hospital. During the 5-year period from 1985 through 1989, 159 carotid reconstructions were done. There were four major strokes (3%), one eventually resulting in death, with the second death in this series from a myocardial infarction (mortality 1%). The combined mortality/major stroke morbidity incidence was 3%. Three transient ischemic attacks (2%) postoperatively cleared promptly without residua. During the latter 1980s, an increasing number of vascular surgeons were doing less carotid surgery. Monitoring institutional quality assurance and individual surgeon performance within the community hospital is becoming a reality. Our experience with institutional guidelines for the evaluation and conduct of carotid surgery, together with an assessment of results and ongoing individual surgeon performance, is presented. Maintaining acceptable morbidity and mortality statistics can be enhanced by having a plan for assessment, management, and concurrent review. 
In situ DNA hybridization analysis of oral papillomas, leukoplakias, and carcinomas for human papillomavirus. Twenty-one papillomas, 23 ordinary benign keratoses, 13 smokeless tobacco keratoses, 10 verrucous hyperplasias, 10 verrucous carcinomas, 17 squamous cell carcinomas, 3 epithelial dysplasias, and 6 lichen planus lesions were evaluated for human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6/11, 16/18, and 31/33/35, with biotinylated double-stranded DNA probes by in situ hybridization. Sixty-two percent (13/21) of oral squamous papillomas were positive for HPV DNA. HPV DNA types 6 and 11 demonstrated the strongest reactivity. Of the 13 cases, 10 also showed some reactivity with HPV-16/18 and -31/33/35. None of the cases of keratoses, epithelial dysplasia, squamous cell carcinoma, verrucous hyperplasia, verrucous carcinoma, or lichen planus were positive for HPV DNA. This study confirms the consistent and frequent finding of HPV DNA in oral squamous cell papillomas and the inconsistency of being able to identify HPV DNA in keratotic, premalignant, or cancerous lesions of the oral mucous membranes. 
Atrial fibrillation as an independent risk factor for stroke: the Framingham Study. The impact of nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation, hypertension, coronary heart disease, and cardiac failure on stroke incidence was examined in 5,070 participants in the Framingham Study after 34 years of follow-up. Compared with subjects free of these conditions, the age-adjusted incidence of stroke was more than doubled in the presence of coronary heart disease (p less than 0.001) and more than trebled in the presence of hypertension (p less than 0.001). There was a more than fourfold excess of stroke in subjects with cardiac failure (p less than 0.001) and a near fivefold excess when atrial fibrillation was present (p less than 0.001). In persons with coronary heart disease or cardiac failure, atrial fibrillation doubled the stroke risk in men and trebled the risk in women. With increasing age the effects of hypertension, coronary heart disease, and cardiac failure on the risk of stroke became progressively weaker (p less than 0.05). Advancing age, however, did not reduce the significant impact of atrial fibrillation. For persons aged 80-89 years, atrial fibrillation was the sole cardiovascular condition to exert an independent effect on stroke incidence (p less than 0.001). The attributable risk of stroke for all cardiovascular contributors decreased with age except for atrial fibrillation, for which the attributable risk increased significantly (p less than 0.01), rising from 1.5% for those aged 50-59 years to 23.5% for those aged 80-89 years. While these findings highlight the impact of each cardiovascular condition on the risk of stroke, the data suggest that the elderly are particularly vulnerable to stroke when atrial fibrillation is present. 
Single potential analysis of cavernous electrical activity in impotent patients: a possible diagnostic method for autonomic cavernous dysfunction and cavernous smooth muscle degeneration. Cavernous electrical activity was recorded in 214 patients with erectile dysfunction and in 39 normal patients. In 34 of the 39 normal patients potentials of a uniform shape were recorded during flaccidity. At cutoff frequencies of 0.5 to 500 Hz. the duration was 8 to 18 seconds (mean 12.8 +/- 2.8, seconds, standard deviation), the amplitude was 250 to 750 microv. (mean 444 +/- 109 microv.) and the polyphasity was 8 to 22 (mean 13.8 +/- 3.3). With increasing tumescence and rigidity during audiovisual sexual stimulation, high frequency potentials of low amplitude and short duration were found in the normal patients. In impotent patients with an upper motor neuron or peripheral lesion specific types of potentials were observed. In 11 of 14 impotent patients with insulin-dependent diabetes for more than 20 years and with clinical findings of cavernous myopathy the potentials showed low amplitude, irregular shape and slow depolarizations. Abnormal findings of cavernous electrical activity were recorded in 51.6% of the consecutive impotent patients. Our clinical study suggests that single potential analysis of cavernous electrical activity may be useful in the diagnosis of cavernous autonomic neuropathy and cavernous smooth muscle myopathy. 
Choice of anesthetic technique for needle localized breast biopsy. General anesthesia has been recommended to increase the accuracy and safety of needle localized biopsy (NLB). The authors' NLB experience was reviewed to determine whether the method of anesthesia affected accuracy, yield, complication rate, or cost. All biopsies were performed in a standard operating room using either local anesthesia (Group 1, n = 14), local anesthesia with an anesthesiologist present (Group 2, n = 14), or general anesthesia (Group 3, n = 10). The mean operative times were 54, 59, and 56 minutes for Groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. In groups 1 and 2, 100 per cent of the specimen radiographs showed the target lesion had been excised, although one biopsy was indeterminate. Among Group 3 two target lesions could not be identified on specimen radiographs and one was indeterminate. There was one malignancy in Group 1 compared with four malignancies in Group 2 and two in Group 3. The average hospital bill was $1,172 for Group 1, $1,418 for Group 2, and $1,488 for Group 3. Anesthesiologists' fees added an additional $224 to Groups 2 and 3. NLB can be performed using local anesthesia without sacrificing accuracy or yield, increasing operative time, or increasing complication rate; the cost is significantly less than with general anesthesia. 
Importance of viability and attachment to an ascites tumor in the release of plasminogen activator. Tumor plasminogen activator (PA) has been alleged to play a role in the growth and metastasis of tumors. Before such a role can be realized, PA first must be released from tumor cells. Having determined intra- and extracellular PA and PA-inhibitor activities in an experimental pancreatic ascites tumor grown in hamsters, the release of PA from these cells was investigated. No PA activity was detected in the suspension medium of freshly isolated tumor cells; inclusion of plasminogen, fibrinogen, or collagen in the medium yielded similar negative results. On the other hand, PA activity was demonstrated to be released in a time-dependent manner from these tumor cells embedded in fibrin clots. Plasminogen activator activity also was not found in the suspension medium of frozen-thawed tumor cells, despite the fact that most of them had breaks on their cell membrane. Unlike freshly isolated tumor cells, PA was not released from frozen-thawed cells embedded in fibrin clots. Full PA activity was demonstrated in frozen-thawed cells treated with Triton X-100, however. Frozen-thawed cells exhibited signs of severe damage, and more than 80% of them failed to exclude trypan blue. Obviously PA is released from viable tumor cells embedded in fibrin clots but not suspended in artificial medium. The PA-release mechanism, not PA itself, is destroyed in cells rendered nonviable by freeze thawing. 
The negative association in women between cigarette smoking and uncomplicated angina pectoris in the Framingham Heart Study data. As a result of a more complete analysis of available Framingham Heart Study data on the association of cigarette smoking to incidence of uncomplicated angina pectoris than has previously been published in Framingham papers, it was determined that there is a consistently negative risk factor association for women at every follow-up period from 12 to 30 years, with Framingham women cigarette smokers experiencing 30-40% lower rates of uncomplicated angina pectoris than non-smokers, the rates also declining with increasing amounts of cigarettes smoked. Our analysis confirms the absence of a predictive risk factor association in the case of men previously indicated by Framingham investigators. The published declarations by Framingham investigators of an absence of association between cigarette smoking and angina pectoris in Framingham women, is a failure to publicly recognize the distinctive negative association present in the Framingham female data. The Framingham data on the relationship of smoking to angina incidence is clearly at variance with the Surgeon General's sketchy finding of an inconsistent positive association for men and an uncertain relationship for women. It is suggested that special attention should be directed to these results of the Framingham data because of the preeminence of Framingham material world wide, because angina pectoris is the most common manifestation of coronary heart disease, because it will improve the "conventional wisdom" on this subject, and because the negative relationship found for Framingham women does not lend support to the belief held by some that smoking enhances the degree of coronary atherosclerosis. 
Antihypertensive effect of cicletanine is exaggerated in NaCl-sensitive hypertension. Cicletanine (CIC), a furopyridine derivative, lowers blood pressure in hypertensive animals and humans. We have previously identified an NaCl-sensitive substrain of spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR-S) that displays enhanced sensitivity to the depressor effects of exogenous atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) when fed a high NaCl diet. The current study tested the hypotheses that CIC has an exaggerated antihypertensive effect in NaCl-supplemented SHR-S and that this effect might be ANP dependent. CIC (40 mg/kg/day) or vehicle was administered by gavage in a single daily dose for three weeks beginning immediately prior to initiation of 1% or 8% NaCl diets in seven-week-old male SHR-S. CIC significantly decreased mean arterial pressure (MAP) and the ratio of left ventricular and septum weight to body weight (LV + S/BW) in both 8% NaCl- and 1% NaCl-fed SHR-S. The depressor effect of CIC was greater in the 8% NaCl group (-26 mmHg) than in the 1% NaCl group (-13 mmHg). CIC was associated with significant reduction in RAP in the 8% NaCl group but not in the 1% NaCl group. Neither CIC treatment nor 8% NaCl significantly altered plasma ANP or cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) levels in plasma, aorta, or kidney. CIC was associated with significant decreases in plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels in the 1% NaCl group but not in the 8% NaCl group. The data demonstrate that the antihypertensive effect of CIC is exaggerated in NaCl-sensitive hypertension. The antihypertensive effect of CIC appears not to be related to ANP or cyclic GMP but may be related to a combination of a sympatholytic and natriuretic/diuretic effects in SHR-S. 
MR imaging of the portal venous system: value of gradient-echo imaging as an adjunct to spin-echo imaging. We evaluated the use of gradient-echo (GRE) as an adjunct to spin-echo (SE) MR imaging of the portal venous system. GRE imaging was performed in 31 subjects, 15 normal volunteers and 16 patients with documented portal venous disease (15 cases) or suspected disease (one case). Eight of 16 patients had venous thrombosis, five had focal thrombus, and three had complete occlusion. Six patients had extrinsic venous compression by tumor. Of the two other patients, one had an arteriovenous fistula and the other a falsely positive angiogram, suggesting portal vein occlusion. In normal subjects, GRE scans had excellent visualization of the portal venous system with high intravascular signal compared with surrounding tissues. Nine (60%) of 15 normal subjects and three patients had an artifact consisting of a curvilinear area of decreased signal that could mimic clot. In three of five patients with focal thrombus, clot was identified on GRE but not on SE images. In all three patients with occlusion, SE and GRE images demonstrated similar findings. In five of the six patients with extrinsic venous compression by tumor, SE and GRE studies showed similar findings. Of the two patients, an arteriovenous fistula was seen on GRE MR in one, and in the other, patency of the left portal vein was seen on SE and GRE images after angiography had suggested portal vein occlusion. Collateral vessels were seen in nine of 16 patients. In five of nine cases, GRE MR demonstrated more extensive collaterals than did SE MR. In summary, GRE MR provides a useful adjunct to standard SE MR imaging. Benefits include high contrast between vascular structures and surrounding tissues, reduced motion artifact, and rapid scanning within a breath-hold. 
Hyperdiploidy and trisomy of chromosome 15 in peritoneal macrophages of hyperimmune, older Swiss mice. Chromosome analysis was carried out in resident and exudate peritoneal macrophages and, also, in bone marrow cells of groups of mice either immunized with ovalbumin in complete Freund's adjuvant and challenged with the antigen, or stimulated with the irritant thioglycollic acid. Labeling of the phagocytic cells with colloidal carbon showed that dividing cells in the peritoneal cavity of experimental mice are resident macrophages. Also shown was an increase in number of hyperdiploid metaphases in hyperimmune, older mice but not in the young ones. Statistical analysis showed these differences to be significant. G-banding of hyperdiploid cells of hyperimmune older mice showed trisomy of chromosome 15 in several metaphases analyzed. The absence of hyperdiploid metaphases in the bone marrow cells of hyperimmune mice and in exudate macrophages of mice that received the irritant thioglycollic acid suggests that hyperdiploidy occurs in resident macrophages in the peritoneal cavity but not in their precursors in the bone marrow. These results raise some questions such as, hyperimmune older mice resident macrophages being prone to hyperdiploidy and trisomy of chromosome 15. 
Relationship between length and surface area of each segment of the large intestine and the incidence of colorectal cancer. In investigating the occurrence and clinical characteristics of diseases of the large intestine, particularly tumors, the number, distribution, and incidence of the lesions were compared between segments of the large intestine. If the distribution and incidence of lesions are correlated with the length or surface area of each segment, the incidence of lesions will be the same throughout the large intestine. If the lesions are unrelated to length or surface area, the factors that affect the occurrence of lesions must be determined and will be characteristic for each segment. However, the length and surface area of each segment of the large intestine and the ratios of each to both the total length and surface area of the large intestine are not clear. In this study the length and surface area of each segment of the large intestine were measured and calculated using the barium enema technique, and the incidence rates of cancer per unit length and surface area of each segment were determined and compared. 
Clinical significance of the V-shaped space in the subluxed shoulder of hemiplegics. Recently, it has been proposed that shoulder subluxation in hemiplegia is accompanied by 1) the appearance of a V-shaped articular configuration occurring between the humeral head and glenoid fossa and 2) the presence of chronic pain. The main purpose of this study was to investigate the validity of these statements. We evaluated 40 hemiplegic subjects over 3 months. Radiographs of the affected and nonaffected shoulders were taken at both a frontal plane (0 degree) and a 45 degree incidence. From these patients, subluxed (n = 19) and nonsubluxed (n = 21) groups were formed. Pain was evaluated using the Present Pain Intensity index of the McGill Pain Questionnaire. On these x-ray films, measurements were taken of the V-shaped space, abduction of the arm, and rotation of the scapula. The statistical analysis (analysis of variance for repeated measures) contrasted the results obtained from the nonaffected side with those from the affected side over the 3 months studied. At the 45 degree angle, which better exposes the articular configuration of the shoulder, the difference in the V angle between the affected and nonaffected shoulders was significant for the subluxed group (p less than 0.01), indicating that such a V-shaped space can be identified. The measures taken also indicate that a downward subluxation of the humeral head occurs relative to the scapula without any systematic abduction of the humerus or downward rotation of the scapula. None of the results obtained from the frontal plane x-ray films was significant. Finally, no significant relation was found between subluxation and shoulder pain. 
Fistulous degeneration of a giant esophageal ulcer in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Esophageal involvement in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease can take many forms, including the recently described giant solitary ulcerations thought to be due to cytomegalovirus or, more recently, Mycobacterium species. Current experience suggests that steroids may provide symptom relief and healing in selected patients. We report a case of fistulous change in one such ulcer, with documented endoscopic, radiologic, and pathologic findings. No organism was identified by culture or pathologic staining, leading to a postulated role for the persistent irritation of medications. 
Maintenance therapy with sucralfate in duodenal ulcer: genuine prevention or accelerated healing of ulcer recurrence? We sought to compare the efficacy of sucralfate to placebo for the prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence and to determine that the efficacy of sucralfate was due to a true reduction in ulcer prevalence and not due to secondary effects such as analgesic activity or accelerated healing. This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel groups, multicenter clinical study with 254 patients. All patients had a past history of at least two duodenal ulcers with at least one ulcer diagnosed by endoscopic examination 3 months or less before the start of the study. Complete ulcer healing without erosions was required to enter the study. Sucralfate or placebo were dosed as a 1-g tablet twice a day for 4 months, or until ulcer recurrence. Endoscopic examinations once a month and when symptoms developed determined the presence or absence of duodenal ulcers. If a patient developed an ulcer between monthly scheduled visits, the patient was dosed with a 1-g sucralfate tablet twice a day until the next scheduled visit. Statistical analyses of the results determined the efficacy of sucralfate compared with placebo for preventing duodenal ulcer recurrence. Comparisons of therapeutic agents for preventing duodenal ulcers have usually been made by testing for statistical differences in the cumulative rates for all ulcers developed during a follow-up period, regardless of the time of detection. Statistical experts at the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and on the FDA Advisory Panel expressed doubts about clinical study results based on this type of analysis. They suggested three possible mechanisms for reducing the number of observed ulcers: (a) analgesic effects, (b) accelerated healing, and (c) true ulcer prevention. Traditional ulcer analysis could miss recurring ulcers due to an analgesic effect or accelerated healing. Point-prevalence analysis could miss recurring ulcers due to accelerated healing between endoscopic examinations. Maximum ulcer analyses, a novel statistical method, eliminated analgesic effects by regularly scheduled endoscopies and accelerated healing of recurring ulcers by frequent endoscopies and an open-label phase. Maximum ulcer analysis reflects true ulcer recurrence and prevention. Sucralfate was significantly superior to placebo in reducing ulcer prevalence by all analyses. Significance (p less than 0.05) was found at months 3 and 4 for all analyses. All months were significant in the traditional analysis, months 2-4 in point-prevalence analysis, and months 3-4 in the maximal ulcer prevalence analysis. Sucralfate was shown to be effective for the prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence by a true reduction in new ulcer development. 
Application of intermediate biomarkers to studies of cancer prevention in the gastrointestinal tract: introduction and perspective. In this article, abnormalities in the proliferation and differentiation of gastrointestinal cells are described in diseases that increase predisposition to gastrointestinal cancer. Recent findings related to the effects of calcium on gastrointestinal cell proliferation, differentiation, and tumor occurrence in rodent models and in human subjects are summarized. 
Consolidation with intraperitoneal cisplatin in first-line therapy of advanced ovarian cancer. Seventy-five patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer were treated with a combined modality regimen of systemic, induction chemotherapy followed by intraperitoneal therapy (IPT). All patients underwent initial surgery for staging and/or cytoreduction followed by cisplatin 20 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) for 5 days and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 on day 4 every 3 to 4 weeks for two to four cycles. Patients were then evaluated for IPT and, if eligible, had an intraperitoneal (IP) catheter placed. IPT consisted of cisplatin 60 mg/m2 in 2 L on day 1 and IV cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 on day 2 every 3 weeks for three to six cycles. Patients who demonstrated a clinical complete response (CCR) were then referred for second-look laparotomy (SLL). Of 71 patients who completed the induction phase, 53 (75%) were eligible for IPT, and 49 patients entered the therapy phase. Toxicity of the combined modality approach was acceptable and did not differ from our previous experience using the same drugs systemically. Thirty-two of the 49 patients who completed IPT achieved a CCR, which was confirmed by SLL in 20 patients. Twenty recurrences were documented in the 32 CCR patients, 13 occurred in patients after SLL. Projected median survival of all patients is 38 months. Median survival correlated with amount of residual disease following initial surgery (23 months for bulky v 45 months for minimal residual; P less than .001) and with performance status ([PS]; 24 months for PS 2, 3 v greater than 46 months for PS O; P less than .001). Patients who presented with bulky tumors were less likely to reach the consolidation IPT phase. Incorporation of IP cisplatin into the first-line regimen for treatment of ovarian cancer does not appear to have major impact on the survival of all treated patients when compared with our historical control series. Combined IV and IPT cisplatin and cyclophosphamide is feasible with acceptable toxicity. Its impact on response and survival may be limited to only "good-prognosis" patients. 
Short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection, tearing, etc. (SUNCT): III. Another Norwegian case. "SUNCT" is a recently reported head pain syndrome characterized by shortlasting, unilateral neuralgiform paroxysms with conjunctival injection and tearing, and to a lesser extent nasal secretion, and (subclinical) sweating. Another case--that of a 56 year old male--is reported herein. The attacks lasted 1/2-1 min. and occurred only infrequently, i.e. once or twice in 1-4 weeks, except for a week recently when there were up to 20 or more typical attacks per day, with the usual ipsilateral, autonomic accompaniments. Due to the benign nature and low frequency of attacks, the diagnosis would have been most difficult to establish prior to the occurrence of this shortlasting period with more marked symptoms. A variety of precipitation mechanisms were present, partly concerning the V 2-3 areas, partly concerning the neck. Precipitation mechanisms in "SUNCT" to some extent seem to differ from those in trigeminal neuralgia. It is remarkable that all four hitherto reported cases are males. 
Comparison of usefulness of high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography and exercise electrocardiography for detection of asymptomatic restenosis after coronary angioplasty. The present study compares the relative usefulness of the maximal treadmill exercise electrocardiography test with the high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography test (echocardiographic monitoring during dipyridamole infusion up to 0.84 mg/kg in 10 minutes) in detecting severe restenosis or coronary artery disease progression (greater than 70% stenosis) in asymptomatic patients 12 months after a primary successful coronary angioplasty. Criteria of positivity were: for the exercise electrocardiography test, an ST-segment shift greater than or equal to 0.1 mV from baseline, 0.08 second from the J point; for the dipyridamole echocardiography test, a transient dyssynergy of contraction, absent or of a lesser degree than that in the baseline examination. The exercise electrocardiography and dipyridamole echocardiography tests revealed a similar feasibility (91 vs 87%, difference not significant). Both tests could be performed in 75 patients. For detection of restenosis or disease progression, or both, the exercise electrocardiography test revealed a sensitivity similar to the dipyridamole echocardiography test (71 vs 71%, difference not significant), but a lower specificity (61 vs 90%). It is concluded that the high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography test is equally feasible but more accurate than the exercise electrocardiography test for noninvasive detection of severe asymptomatic restenosis or disease progression at 1 year after successful coronary angioplasty. 
Cis- and trans-repression of class I major histocompatibility gene expression in Abelson virus-transformed murine leukemia. Numerous tumor cell lines of leukemic origin are known to modulate cell surface expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigens resulting in alterations in their immune detection and tumorigenicity. We have been studying the mechanisms responsible for attenuation of MHC class I gene expression in an H-2 heterozygous (H-2b x H-2d) Abelson-Murine leukemia virus (A-MuLV)-transformed leukemic cell line (designated R8). Here we report that treatment of the R8 cell line with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) increased H-2Kb steady-state messenger RNA (mRNA) levels several fold. The induced H-2Kb mRNA transcripts were functional, as demonstrated by their ability to be translated into immunoprecipitable H-2Kb alloantigen. H-2Kb null variants derived from the R8 cell line were shown to be the product of both cis- and trans-acting mechanisms, insomuch as the treatment of R8-derived H-2Kb non-expressor lines with CHX re-established expression of H-2Kb mRNA to the same extent as transfection of the variant cell line with the wild-type H-2Kb gene. Such findings indicate that downregulation of MHC class I gene expression is constitutive for the R8 leukemic cell line, a phenomenon that may be related to the immature pre-B-cell phenotype of this A-MuLV transformant. 
Smoking cessation following admission to a coronary care unit. OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of an episode of serious cardiovascular disease on smoking behavior and to identify factors associated with smoking cessation in this setting. DESIGN: Prospective observational study in which smokers admitted to a coronary care unit (CCU) were followed for one year after hospital discharge to determine subsequent smoking behavior. SETTING: Coronary care unit of a teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Preadmission smoking status was assessed in all 828 patients admitted to the CCU during one year. The 310 smokers surviving to hospital discharge were followed and their smoking behaviors assessed by self-report at six and 12 months. INTERVENTION: None. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Six months after discharge, 32% of survivors were not smoking; the rate of sustained cessation at one year was 25%. Smokers with a new diagnosis of coronary heart disease (CHD) made during hospitalization had the highest cessation rate (53% vs. 31%, p = 0.01). On multivariate analysis, smoking cessation was more likely if patients were discharged with a diagnosis of CHD, had no prior history of CHD, were lighter smokers (less than 1 pack/day), and had congestive heart failure during hospitalization. Among smokers admitted because of suspected myocardial infarction (MI), cessation was more likely if the diagnosis was CHD than if it was noncoronary (37% vs. 19%, p less than 0.05), but a diagnosis of MI led to no more smoking cessation than did coronary insufficiency. CONCLUSION: Hospitalization in a CCU is a stimulus to long-term smoking cessation, especially for lighter smokers and those with a new diagnosis of CHD. Admission to a CCU may represent a time when smoking habits are particularly susceptible to intervention. Smoking cessation in this setting should improve patient outcomes because cessation reduces cardiovascular mortality, even when quitting occurs after the onset of CHD. 
Cerebral abnormalities in congenital myotonic dystrophy. The brain structure of 14 infants born with congenital myotonic dystrophy at 2 hospitals was evaluated by cranial ultrasonography, and the findings were correlated with clinical and neuropathologic data. Ventricular dilation was diagnosed in 11 infants (78%). Seven infants died during the neonatal period; all had ventricular dilation which remained essentially static. In the ultrasound scans of the 5 infants with ventricular dilation. Of the 7 survivors, 4 had ventricular dilation born at 1 hospital, 4 had widening of the interhemispheric fissure. Macrocephaly, a previously unrecognized finding in congenital myotonic dystrophy, was present in 10 infants (71%), 8 of whom presented with ventricular dilation. None had clinical evidence of increased intracranial pressure. There was no ventricular obstruction in the 4 brains examined pathologically. Histologic examination revealed minor expression of neuronal migrational disturbances in each patient. Macrocephaly together with the ultrasonographic and neuropathologic findings in our patients suggest that these abnormalities may originate in an external hydrocephalus. 
The treatment of atypical lipoma with liposuction. Large lipomas may best be treated with liposuction. Once a lipoma enlarges to 4 cm or more, liposuction has several advantages over conventional surgery. A well-demarcated lipoma 15 cm in diameter and deep to muscle was treated by liposuction. Biopsy showed an atypical lipoma. Because the entire tumor was removed by liposuction, we feel that the prognosis is excellent. The cosmesis and morbidity results were far superior to those anticipated with conventional excisional surgery. Small superficial lipomas may be treated by suction lipectomy and the surrounding area can be contoured symmetrically at the same time, whereas large ones can be liposuctioned completely without extensive surgical extirpation and morbidity. Because such big lesions may represent atypical lipomas or liposarcomas, care must be taken to remove the entire tumor. 
Characteristics of serial electrocardiograms in heart transplant recipients. To characterize "normal electrocardiogram patterns" after transplantation, serial surface 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) taken 2 weeks, 1 month, and 1 year postoperatively in a group of 50 heart transplant recipients were analyzed and were correlated with clinical parameters. Some recipient atrial activity was evident in 40% of patients at 2 weeks, but in only 16% at 1 year; donor atrial activity was normal in 90% to 94% of patients at all times. ECG intervals generally were normal and did not change over time. The most prevalent abnormality was the presence of incomplete (IRBBB) or complete right bundle branch block (RBBB) patterns (14% at 2 weeks, 16% at 1 month, and 22% at 1 year). In patients with hemodynamic measurements available approximately at the time of the ECG recording 1 year following transplantation, there was a significant correlation between the presence of IRBBB and RBBB patterns and somewhat higher levels of right atrial mean pressure (6.8 versus 3.9 mm Hg, p = 0.01), pulmonary artery systolic pressure (32.5 versus 24.5 mm Hg, p = 0.001) and diastolic pressure (16.2 versus 11.2 mm Hg, p = 0.004), and right ventricular systolic pressure (31.4 versus 26.9 mm Hg, p = 0.019) and pulmonary artery wedge mean pressure (11.3 versus 7.9 mm Hg, p = 0.010). Repolarization changes were also common but decreased in frequency over time (78% at 2 weeks to 34% at 1 year) and did not correlate with the presence or absence of rejection. We conclude that ECG abnormalities in heart transplant recipients are generally mild and that IRBBB and RBBB patterns correlate with increased right heart pressures. 
Importance of ulceration of carotid plaque in determining symptoms of cerebral ischemia. In order to investigate the relationship between carotid plaque morphology and symptoms of cerebral ischemia, a prospective clinicopathological study was performed. Ninety consecutive intact carotid plaques obtained from surgery and 43 carotid plaques from cadavers without symptoms of cerebral ischemia were evaluated. Ulceration and mural thrombus were the only morphologic findings statistically correlated to the presence of hemispheric symptoms (p less than 0.02). Intramural hemorrhage was more common in patients with hemispheric symptoms but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.31). Plaque causing high degree stenosis had a higher incidence of intramural hemorrhage (p = 0.04) and ulceration (p less than 0.02). Ulceration of plaque plays a major role in the onset of hemispheric symptoms. The results of our study support the hypothesis that in the majority of the cases, hemispheric symptoms are embolic in nature. 
Myasthenia gravis. T epitopes on the delta subunit of human muscle acetylcholine receptor. Autoimmune T cell lines specific for muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) were propagated from the blood of three myasthenia gravis patients by the use of a pool of synthetic peptides (delta-pool) corresponding to the complete sequence of the delta-subunit of human muscle AChR. Propagation of AChR-specific T cell lines was attempted unsuccessfully from four other myasthenia gravis patients and from four healthy controls. The lines had CD3+, CD4+, CD8- phenotype, strongly recognized the delta-pool, and cross-reacted vigorously with non-denatured AChR purified from mammalian muscle. They did not cross-react detectably with pools of similar overlapping synthetic peptides corresponding to the complete sequences of the alpha- and gamma-subunits of human muscle AChR. The sequence segments of the delta-subunit that contain T epitopes were identified by investigating the response of the three CD4+ T cell lines to the individual synthetic peptides forming the delta-pool. Each line had an individual pattern of peptide recognition. Although no immunodominant region, recognized in association with different DR haplotypes, could be identified, the sequence segments most strongly recognized by the CD4+ T cell lines were clustered within residues 121-290. One of the peptides more strongly recognized by the T cells corresponded to a sequence segment with high predicted propensity to form an amphipathic alpha-helix, a structural motif proposed to be typical of T epitopes. 
Cell associated urokinase activity and colonic epithelial cells in health and disease. It is not known if urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) is associated with normal colonic epithelial cells. The aims of this study were to determine if normal colonic epithelial cells have uPA activity and whether this is concentrated at the cell membrane. In addition, the contribution of colonic epithelial cell associated uPA activity to disease related pertubations of mucosal uPA activity were examined. A highly enriched population of colonic epithelial cells was isolated from resected colon or biopsy specimens by an enzymatic technique. uPA activity was measured in cell homogenates by a specific and sensitive colorimetric method and expressed relative to cellular DNA. In two experiments subcellular fractionation of colonic epithelial cells was performed by nitrogen cavitation followed by ultracentrifugation over a linear sucrose gradient. The fractions collected were analysed for uPA and organelle-specific enzyme activities. Normal colonic epithelial cells have cell associated uPA activity (mean (SEM) 5.6 (1.1) IU/mg, n = 18). This colocalised with fractions enriched for leucine-beta-naphthylamidase and 5'-nucleotidase, markers of plasma membrane. uPA activities in epithelial cells from cancerous colons (9.8 (3.1) n = 7) or from mucosa affected by inflammatory bowel disease (3.8 (0.7) n = 15) were not significantly different from normal (paired t test), while that in epithelial cells from greatly inflamed mucosa was similar to that from autologous normal or mildly inflamed areas (4.4 (1.2) v 5.9 (3.6), n = 9). Thus normal colonic epithelial cells have cell associated uPA activity which is concentrated on the plasma membranes, suggesting the presence of uPA receptors. 
Recurrent prolonged coma due to basilar artery migraine. A case report. A 25 year old patient presented with recurrent prolonged episodes of life-threatening coma varying from 3 to 10 days. The clinical recovery was slow. The history and technical examinations led to the diagnosis of basilar artery migraine (BAM). The etiology of the coma episodes is thought to be related to ischemic dysfunction of the rostral part of the brainstem due to severe spasm of the basilar artery demonstrated by arteriography. Exceptional are the recurrent prolonged coma episodes of sudden onset, the severe spasm of the basilar artery, and the suppression-burst and FIRDA pattern on the EEG examinations during the coma episodes. 
Sex differences in the management of coronary artery disease. Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Investigators BACKGROUND. Despite the fact that coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death among women, previous studies have suggested that physicians are less likely to pursue an aggressive approach to coronary artery disease in women than in men. To define this issue further, we compared the care previously received by men and women who were enrolled in a large postinfarction intervention trial. METHODS. We assessed the nature and severity of anginal symptoms and the use of antianginal and antiischemic interventions before enrollment in the 1842 men and 389 women with left ventricular ejection fractions less than or equal to 40 percent after an acute myocardial infarction who were randomized in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement trial. RESULTS. Before their index infarction, women were as likely as men to have had angina and to have been treated with antianginal drugs. However, despite reports by women of symptoms consistent with greater functional disability from angina, fewer women had undergone cardiac catheterization (15.4 percent of women vs. 27.3 percent of men, P less than 0.001) or coronary bypass surgery (5.9 percent of women vs. 12.7 percent of men, P less than 0.001). When these differences were adjusted for important covariates, men were still twice as likely to undergo an invasive cardiac procedure as women, but bypass surgery was performed with equal frequency among the men and women who did undergo cardiac catheterization. CONCLUSIONS. Physicians pursue a less aggressive management approach to coronary disease in women than in men, despite greater cardiac disability in women. 
Cranial computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. High resolution computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the head with 3-mm sections through the circle of Willis was obtained in 96 patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. These scans are well suited for the noninvasive, presymptomatic diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms at high risk of rupture, since the risk of rupture of unruptured aneurysms is heavily dependent on their size, and aneurysms equal to or larger than 6 mm in diameter are not likely to escape detection by these techniques. No definite aneurysm was observed in any of the 96 patients. Small areas (2-4 mm) of contrast enhancement or signal void were detected in 11 patients. These areas are possibly due to vascular tortuosity, but the studies were considered to be indeterminate because a small aneurysm could not be ruled out. Cerebral angiography in two of these 11 patients was normal. Arachnoid cysts were observed more frequently in the patients with polycystic kidney disease than in a control group of patients matched by gender, age, and type and date of examination. 
Distribution of the VLA family of integrins in normal and pathological human liver tissue. The "very late activation" (VLA) subgroup of the integrin superfamily of adhesion molecules plays a central role in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. The six different VLA dimers known so far consist of a common beta subunit and a variable alpha (1 to 6) subunit. They serve as receptors for laminin, collagen, and fibronectin or function as adhesion molecules for leukocytes and are therefore of great significance in embryogenesis, growth and repair, and in leukocyte recirculation. The distribution of the common beta and the variable alpha chains of the VLA were studied in normal, inflammatory, and cholestatic liver biopsy samples. In normal liver tissue, vascular endothelia express alpha 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6; bile duct epithelium alpha 2, 3, 5, and 6; connective tissue stroma alpha 1 and 2; hepatocytes alpha 1 and 5; sinusoidal lining cells alpha 1, 2, and 5; and mononuclear cells alpha 4. Whereas bile ducts and vascular endothelia do not show relevant changes in alpha chain expression in liver diseases, hepatocytes de novo express membranous alpha 3 and 6 in inflammatory liver diseases. In view of the role of the VLA-3 and VLA-6 as laminin receptors, this finding is in line with the production of laminin in active liver disease. Moreover, de novo expression of "bile duct type" alpha 2, 3, and 6 on periportal hepatocytes in cholestatic liver disease likely illustrates a phenotypic switch of hepatocytes towards bile duct epithelium during cholestasis. 
Superior mesenteric artery syndrome in acute traumatic quadriplegia: case reports and literature review. Superior mesenteric artery syndrome is a condition in which the third portion of the duodenum is intermittently compressed by the overlying superior mesenteric artery, resulting in gastrointestinal obstruction. Predisposing factors include rapid weight loss, prolonged supine positioning, and using a spinal orthosis, all of which are common among acute traumatic quadriplegic patients. This paper presents three patients, aged 24, 16, and 20 years, with traumatic quadriplegia treated with supine positioning and cervical orthoses, who had postprandial nausea and emesis, bloating, and abdominal pain during rehabilitation. Upper gastrointestinal radiographic series demonstrated abrupt duodenal obstruction to barium flow in all three patients. Two of the patients had complete relief of symptoms with conservative management, and one required surgical duodenojejunostomy. Enhanced awareness of this condition may result in improved recognition of this disease as a cause of persistent, unexplained gastrointestinal disturbances in quadriplegic persons, thereby optimizing its treatment and reducing its potential morbidity. 
Placental bed spiral arteries in the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE--The investigation of the histology of the placental bed spiral arteries in normal pregnancy and in pregnancies complicated by hypertension, with or without proteinura. DESIGN--An observational study, based on women having caesarean sections for clinical reasons. SUBJECTS--17 normal pregnant women, 43 with gestational hypertension, of whom 39 had proteinuria, 17 with chronic hypertension, of whom 6 had proteinuria, and 5 with unclassified hypertension. INTERVENTIONS--Placental bed biopsies obtained during caesarean section. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Histological appearance of sections stained with haematoxylin and eosin PAS and Lendrum's MSB. RESULTS--Biopsies containing spiral arteries were obtained from 6 normotensive and 44 hypertensive women. Trophoblastic invasion was present in 5 of the 6 normotensive biopsies but absent in the majority of those with hypertension. Subintimal proliferation was seen in all the normotensive biopsies but in only 8 of 28 from those with gestational hypertension and proteinuria. Other features seen predominantly or only in the hypertensive biopsies, in order of frequency, were medial hyperplasia, fibrin deposits, acute atherosis, endothelial vacuolation and thrombosis. CONCLUSION--Absence of physiological changes may not be peculiar to preeclampsia but may be associated or even a result of various forms of hypertension in pregnancy. Spiral arteries show a spectrum of changes in hypertensive pregnancies that do not appear to bear a clear-cut relation to the clinical signs. 
Prostacyclin production by blood-contacting surfaces of endothelialized vascular prostheses. This study examines prostacyclin production by blood-contacting surfaces within woven vascular prostheses of polydioxanone (PDS), polyglactin 910 (PG910), or Dacron interposed into rabbit infrarenal aortas. Grafts and normal aortic segments were explanted after 1, 3, and 6 months for pulsatile perfusion with Medium-199 for 60 minutes. Aliquots were removed serially for 6-keto-PGF1 alpha assay. After 30 minutes sodium arachidonate (10 micrograms/ml) was added. Specimens were studied by light microscopy, SEM and TEM. Patency in all three groups exceeded 90%. All three showed re-endothelialization at one month. Normal aorta produced low basal 6-keto-PGF1 alpha with a marked evanescent post arachidonate increase. Dacron did not differ from normal aorta. PG910 and PDS both produced significantly less 6-keto-PGF1 alpha post arachidonate at one month but both increased to normal by three months. 
Choledochoduodenostomy. Analysis of 71 cases followed for 5 to 15 years. To investigate the long-term effectiveness of choledochoduodenostomy (CDD), the experience with 71 patients followed for 5 or more years after CDD was analyzed retrospectively. From 1968 to 1984, 134 patients underwent CDD. Eight patients (6%) died in the immediate postoperative period, 55 left the hospital, 8 of them were lost to follow-up, and 47 were followed but died before 5 years elapsed after CDD. The remaining 71 patients form the data base for this analysis: 38 were followed for more than 5 years, 25 were followed for more than 10 years, and 8 were followed for more than 15 years (mean 12.1 years +/- 1.3 SEM). Choledocholithiasis, chronic pancreatitis, and postoperative stricture were the indications for CDD. Cholangitis was observed in only three patients. The diameter of the common bile duct (CBD) was large in most patients (mean 18 mm +/- 0.9 SEM). These results infer that CDD is effective to treat non-neoplastic obstructing lesions of the distal CBD on a long-term basis and that the presence of a dilated CBD (more than 16 mm) that allows the construction of a CDD more than 14 mm is essential to obtain good results. 
The threshold for myocardial ischemia varies in patients with coronary artery disease depending on the exercise protocol. It is generally accepted that angina pectoris and, presumably, myocardial ischemia occur at a fixed heart rate-systolic blood pressure product in a given patient. This concept of a fixed threshold has recently been challenged. To evaluate the effects of varying exercise intensity on the ischemic threshold, 33 patients with coronary artery disease and provokable myocardial ischemia, documented by thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging, underwent two exercise tests 2 to 7 days apart. A symptom-limited incremental treadmill exercise test was followed by a 20 min submaximal treadmill test at an intensity approximating 70% of the peak heart rate attained during the incremental test. During the incremental exercise test, angina pectoris developed in 16 patients and 17 patients were asymptomatic. At least 0.1 mV of ST segment depression developed in all subjects during the incremental exercise test at a mean exercise duration of 5.3 +/- 2.6 min, a rate-pressure product of 19,130 +/- 5,735 and oxygen uptake of 19.6 +/- 7.0 ml/kg per min. During the submaximal exercise test, 28 (85%) of the 33 patients had significant ST segment depression. Of these patients, 24 (86%) were asymptomatic, including 10 patients who had previously reported anginal symptoms during the incremental test. The average time to onset of 0.1 mV ST segment depression during the submaximal test was 8.1 +/- 4.5 min. These changes occurred at a rate-pressure product of 15,250 +/- 3,705 and an oxygen uptake of 14.3 +/- 5.9 ml/kg per min, and were significantly (p less than 0.001) lower than values observed during the graded exercise. 
Neurocysticercosis: regression of a fourth ventricular cyst with praziquantel. Symptomatic intraventricular cysticerci are said to respond poorly to the anticestodial agent praziquantel. A case is reported of rapid regression of a large cyst of the fourth ventricle after oral praziquantel, avoiding the need for surgery. 
Attitudes of family practice residents about speech-language-hearing referrals. The "family doctor" has been identified as the professional most likely to be contacted by the general public with concerns about communication disorders; yet the family practice physician is unlikely to refer patients with communicative disorders to speech-language pathologists or audiologists for nonmedical evaluation and treatment. The purpose of this study was to determine attitudes of family practice residents about referral patterns for communication disorders using a survey format. Thirty-nine residents estimated that they had referred an average of 1.5 patients to a speech-language pathologist and 2.2 patients to an audiologist during a six-month interval. The findings indicated that these residents did not routinely refer patients to speech-language pathologists. When they did refer, a limited view of communication problems was used. 
Endoscopic palliative management of rectal cancer. Laser ablation and bipolar coagulation have been used to palliate rectal cancer and avoid surgery. Indications are distal metastatic disease, extensive local invasion, obstruction and bleeding from nonresectable rectal tumor, or refusal of surgery. From Jan 1, 1986, to Jan 1, 1989, I saw 26 patients who met those criteria; 19 already had metastatic disease and three repeatedly refused abdominoperineal resection. A two-laser approach using both CO2 and Nd:YAG lasers was used in patients with low-lying lesions; others were treated by the Nd:YAG laser only. For rectal tumors, bipolar esophageal tumor probes were used via the rigid sigmoidoscope. The number of laser sessions averaged three per patient, and the number of bipolar coagulation sessions averaged five per patient. Bleeding followed bipolar coagulation in one patient. There were no perforations in either treatment group, and no patient has required colostomy. Of the 19 patients who already had metastatic disease, 12 are still alive, the longest survival being 20 months. Of those medically unfit for surgery, three have died of coincidental disease, and one is alive with controlled rectal cancer after 16 months. All three patients who refused surgery are alive; the longest survival is 13 months. 
Nutritional support in liver failure. The most important manifestations of advanced liver disease are malnutrition, encephalopathy, and hepatorenal syndrome. Appropriate and optimal nutritional and metabolic support with specially formulated solutions enriched in branched-chain amino acids, together with other advanced treatments such as plasmapheresis, hemofiltration, and continuous arteriovenous hemodialysis, can correct the most important metabolic and clinical aberrations and temporarily improve the quality of life. However, the ultimately poor prognosis of patients with severe liver failure has not been altered significantly to date by the provision of nonspecific or specifically tailored nutrient regimens. The prognosis appears to depend on the arrest, correction, or reversal of the primary pathophysiologic process. 
The concept of silent otitis media. Its importance and implications. This article defines silent otitis media and describes its continuum of signs and symptoms and its sequelae. Chronic silent otitis media and silent otitis media in children are also examined, and treatment principles are provided. 
Endoscopic injection sclerosis: effective treatment for bleeding peptic ulcer. One hundred and nine patients presenting with severe haemorrhage from benign peptic ulcers were randomised to either endoscopic injection sclerotherapy using a combination of 1:100,000 adrenaline and 5% ethanolamine or to conservative treatment. Only high risk patients with active bleeding or endoscopic stigmata of recent haemorrhage and accessible ulcers were considered. The two groups were well matched for age, shock, haemoglobin concentration, endoscopic findings, and consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The group treated endoscopically had a significantly reduced rebleeding rate (12.5% v 47%, p less than 0.001). Rebleeding was successfully treated in some patients by injection sclerotherapy, other patients underwent urgent surgery. While there was a tendency towards a lower operation rate and lower transfusion requirements in the treated group, this failed to achieve statistical significance. The use of injection sclerotherapy in the conservatively treated group after rebleeding undoubtedly reduced the number of surgical operations. Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy is effective in the prevention of rebleeding in these patients. 
Recurrent and de novo renal disease after kidney transplantation with or without cyclosporine A. We evaluated the clinical course of 700 renal transplantations, including 1,305 transplant histologies performed in 611 patients between 1970 and 1988, to estimate the influence of cyclosporine A (CsA) after kidney transplantation on the incidence of recurrent or de novo renal disease. Primary renal disease recurred in 11 of 583 functioning transplants (1.9%) with transplant loss in seven patients (1.2%): focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS, three patients); membranous glomerulonephritis (GN, one patient); mesangiocapillary GN (one patient); rapidly progressive IgA nephropathy (one patient); hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS, three patients); and oxalosis in two transplants (one patient). De novo renal disease occurred in six patients (1.0%), including mesangiocapillary GN type I (three patients); nonpurulent focal GN in septicemia (one patient); HUS (one patient); and nodular glomerulosclerosis in steroid diabetes (one patient). De novo membranous GN was seen in 14 additional cases (2.4%). No statistically significant difference could be established between the treatment groups without (n = 225) and with (n = 358) CsA in recurrent and de novo renal disease (n = 7/225 v 10/358, NS); in recurrent and de novo GN (n = 4/225 v 6/358, NS); in recurrent FSGS (n = 1/7 v 2/8, NS); in recurrent and de novo HUS (n - 1/1 v 2/7, NS); and in de novo membranous GN (n = 7/225 v 7/358, NS). Transplant loss by recurrent and de novo GN was higher without than with CsA (n = 4/4 v 1/6, P = 0.004). On the basis of our investigation, we conclude that recurrent and de novo renal disease in the transplant occur rarely and are not prevented by CsA. However, even if the incidence of transplant GN is unchanged by CsA treatment, its clinical course seems to be mitigated. CsA treatment also does not increase the incidence of HUS. 
Dendritic hypertrophy in Purkinje neurons of old Fischer 344 rats after long-term ethanol treatment. Metric parameters of Purkinje cell dendritic networks in 24- to 26-month-old Fischer 344 rats were determined after 48 weeks of chronic ethanol intake. Measurements included the total number and length of all segments/network, the total number and length of segments within topologically defined segment categories, and the mean length of segments in each category. A main effect of ethanol was expressed as a significant increase in cumulative length within one category of terminal segments. This increase was the result of a significant increase in mean length/segment in that category. Metric changes in other segment categories were not significant, showing that changes in the networks during ethanol treatment were not distributed randomly. Recovery after ethanol treatment was associated with further nonrandom remodeling of these networks. Significant differences in lengths of terminal segments were no longer present, but internal segments in networks of both pair-fed and ethanol-fed rats were significantly longer. Only one category of internal segments showed this change during recovery. The data showed that long term ethanol treatment in old rats, at a time when effects of aging processes were prominent in Purkinje cell networks, was associated with remodeling of those networks through dendritic extension. This effect was interpreted as compensatory growth in surviving networks following ethanol-related neuronal loss and/or damage to the surrounding neuropil. Recovery from dietary treatment produced further internal remodeling of those networks that was not related specifically to ethanol. It could be shown, however, that the restructuring processes that resulted in longer internal segments after dietary recovery were different in the pair-fed and the ethanolfed rats. 
Aural rehabilitation. Aural rehabilitation involves a complete evaluation of the communication deficits and needs of the hearing-impaired patient as well as the provision of counselling and therapy. This article describes listening-assistive devices, speech production, and audiovisual training. Issues related to educational placement and tinnitus also are reviewed. 
Cation-induced restoration of insulin action in insulin-desensitized HTC cells. Insulin desensitization of amino acid uptake in HTC cells was induced by preincubation with 4 or 10 micrograms/ml insulin. Insulin binding after desensitisation was decreased by both insulin concentrations due to a 45-49% decrease in insulin receptor numbers. Desensitization with 4 micrograms/ml insulin increased the ED50 for half-maximal stimulation of amino acid uptake from 19.5 +/- 9.2 ng/ml in control cells to 84.0 +/- 8.3 ng/ml (P less than 0.0001). It also decreased the maximal insulin response of amino acid uptake from 1.40 +/- 0.10 to 1.14 +/- 0.10 nmol/mg protein, indicating the production of a mild postreceptor defect. Desensitization with 10 micrograms/ml insulin completely abolished this insulin response. When cellular receptors were down-regulated with 4 micrograms/ml insulin and restimulated with insulin in the presence of 0.03 mM ruthenium red (RR) or 10 mM Ca2+, both the insulin response and insulin binding were increased. Insulin binding was restored to levels comparable to those observed in control cells by an increase in receptor affinity. The ED50 of amino acid uptake decreased to 20.5 +/- 7.3 ng/ml insulin in the presence of RR and to 42.2 +/- 8.9 ng/ml in the presence of 10 mM Ca2+ (both P less than 0.0001 from down-regulated cells). In addition, the maximal insulin response increased from 1.14 +/- 0.10 to 1.40 +/- 0.10 and 1.45 +/- 0.10 nmol/mg protein, respectively. Preincubation with 10 micrograms/ml insulin prevented the effect of RR and Ca2+ on the recovery of insulin responses. These experiments suggest that insulin-desensitized cells undergo a progressive loss of their insulin response and that RR and Ca2+ provide useful reagents to investigate the mechanisms of this process because they can counteract the decrease in insulin response by increasing receptor affinity and receptor-effector coupling. 
Esophageal tuberculosis: a rare presentation with hematemesis. Esophageal tuberculosis is rare, with only 26 cases previously reported in the literature. Patients usually present with progressive dysphagia or odynophagia. We report a patient with hematemesis that was later attributed to the erosion of tuberculous subcarinal lymph nodes into the esophagus. This presentation has been described in only two other patients, both of whom died of exsanguinating hemorrhage. The successful outcome in the present case rested on the availability of rapid diagnostic modalities and timely surgical intervention. 
Combined intertrochanteric and Chiari pelvic osteotomies for hip dysplasia. Thirty-two dysplastic hips with secondary osteoarthritis, in 28 patients aged 18 to 42 years, were treated by combined intertrochanteric and Chiari osteotomy. They were followed up for 2.5 to 10 years. Pain was the main presenting symptom in all the patients. The indication for surgery was based on the severity of disease with respect to congruency, secondary degenerative change and degree of dysplasia. The average pre-operative Harris hip score was 47.7 and the majority had severe dysplasia with degenerative changes. On final review the average score was 88. The radiographic appearances of degenerative arthritis regressed in 72% of hips and dysplasia was improved in all cases. The results of this conservative form of surgery are better in hips with less severe dysplasia and mild secondary degenerative change. 
Low-dose aspirin therapy for chronic stable angina. A randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of low-dose aspirin in the primary prevention of myocardial infarction among patients with chronic stable angina. DESIGN: A randomized, double-blind, trial. PATIENTS: The study included 333 men with baseline chronic stable angina but with no previous history of myocardial infarction, stroke, or transient ischemic attack who were enrolled in the Physicians' Health Study, a trial of aspirin among 22,071 male physicians. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive alternate-day aspirin therapy (325 mg) or placebo and were followed for an average of 60.2 months for the occurrence of myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death. RESULTS: During follow-up, 27 patients had confirmed myocardial infarctions; 7 were among the 178 patients with chronic stable angina who received aspirin therapy and 20 were among the 155 patients who received placebo (relative risk, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.14 to 0.63; P = 0.003). While simultaneously controlling for other cardiovascular risk factors in a proportional hazards model, an overall 87% risk reduction was calculated (relative risk, 0.13; CI, 0.04 to 0.42; P less than 0.001). For the subgroup of patients with chronic stable angina but no previous coronary bypass surgery or coronary angioplasty, an almost identical reduction in the risk for myocardial infarction was found (relative risk, 0.14; CI, 0.04 to 0.56; P = 0.006). Of 13 strokes, 11 occurred in the aspirin group and 2 in the placebo group (relative risk, 5.4; CI, 1.3 to 22.1; P = 0.02). No stroke was fatal, but 4 produced some long-term impairment of function. One stroke, in the aspirin group, was hemorrhagic. CONCLUSION: Our data indicated that alternate-day aspirin therapy greatly reduced the risk for first myocardial infarction among patients with chronic stable angina, a group of patients at high risk for cardiovascular death (P less than 0.001). Although our results for stroke were based on small numbers, they suggested an apparent increase in frequency of stroke with aspirin therapy; this finding requires confirmation in randomized trials of adequate sample size. 
Cytologic detection of colorectal cancer after administration of oral lavage solution. Whether malignant cells can be detected in the bowel movements induced by oral gut lavage solution administration was studied in patients with known colonic adenocarcinomas. The induced bowel movements were collected in 27 patients, nine of whom had cancer proven by anatomic pathologic examination. The cells present were recovered with a simple technique and stained by the Papanicolaou method. Malignant cells were identified in the stained preparations in all nine patients with cancer (100% sensitivity), and there were few false positives (94.5% specificity). The authors concluded that if additional studies with greater numbers of subjects confirm the reliability of this technique, a test may be developed that would be useful for either early detection or screening. 
Critically ischemic myocardium in clinically stable patients following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: potential implications for early coronary angioplasty in selected patients. The utility of post-thrombolysis, rest-redistribution thallium (TI)-201 scintigraphy was studied in 32 patients with a first myocardial infarction who were clinically stable following reperfusion. Day 1 scintigraphy obtained 5 +/- 4 hours (range 1 to 16) after thrombolysis revealed an average perfusion defect of 6.5 +/- 2.6 segments (range 1 to 11). There was a total of 208 abnormal segments, 137 of which were nonreversible at 4 hours, 50 of which were fully or partially reversible, and 21 of which had a reverse redistribution pattern. Repeat TI-201 scintigraphy on day 10 revealed significantly smaller perfusion defects of 4.9 +/- 2.4 segments (range 0 to 9) with improvement predominantly of the day 1 reversible segments, and the improvement in segmental perfusion correlated with better regional left ventricular function. Twenty-nine (58%) of the 50 reversible segments normalized by day 10, and 11 (22%) improved, whereas only 16 (12%) of 137 nonreversible segments had normalized by day 10, only 9 had (6%) improved and 112 (82%) were unchanged (p less than 0.001 reversible versus nonreversible). There was no significant change in segments with a pattern of reverse redistribution. The improvement of reversible segments was greater in the 16 patients who underwent coronary angioplasty (PTCA) during the interval between the two scintigrams than in the 16 who did not. All 24 reversible segments in the PTCA group improved or normalized by day 10 compared with 16 (62%) of 26 reversible segments in the No PTCA group (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, 8 of the 10 reversible segments in the No PTCA group that did not improve actually deteriorated and became nonreversible by day 10. The minor improvement of nonreversible segments was not related to PTCA. Consistent with the findings in individual segments, the 19 patients with a reversible component on the day 1 TI-201 scintigram had significantly greater improvement in perfusion defect by day 10 than the 13 patients without a reversible component (37 +/- 33% versus 7 +/- 22% decrease in perfusion defect severity, p less than 0.05), and this improvement was greatest in the 10 patients with a reversible component who underwent PTCA. In contrast, PTCA had no impact on the perfusion defect in the 13 patients without a reversible component. Our data suggest that following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, viable myocardium in the reperfused zone may remain ischemic, as manifested by a reversible pattern of TI-201 redistribution at rest, and thus may be in jeopardy of gradual progression to necrosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The role of platelets, thrombin and hyperplasia in restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Coronary angioplasty has become a successful and widely used treatment for patients with coronary artery disease since its first clinical application in 1977. The primary success rate has improved despite the increase in procedure and case complexity. However, acute reocclusion and late restenosis, which constitute the most important problems after successful angioplasty, continue to occur in about 5% and 35% of patients within 3 to 6 months, respectively. Angioscopic and pathologic observations have suggested that a multifactorial pathophysiologic process accounts for acute reocclusion, involving marked thrombosis, intimal dissection, medial and subintimal hemorrhage, vascular recoil and vasocontriction. In contrast, chronic restenosis involves the development of fibrocellular intimal hyperplasia within a milieu created by vascular injury, platelet activation, thrombin generation and the release of mitogens. Although current pharmacologic approaches, which involve antithrombotic and anticoagulant therapy, have been largely ineffective in eliminating acute reocclusion and chronic restenosis, recent advances in the research in thrombosis, platelet receptors and smooth muscle growth regulation have allowed new therapeutic options to be tested in the experimental setting, with subsequent potential clinical applications in patients. 
Paramedics: knowledge base and attitudes towards AIDS and hepatitis. We surveyed 420 paramedics employed by a large metropolitan fire department to determine the effects of educational seminars on their knowledge base, perceptions, and attitudes about AIDS and hepatitis B. All surveys were completed on an anonymous, voluntary, and confidential basis. Our educational efforts improved the paramedics' knowledge base concerning the medical manifestations of AIDS, identification of risk factors, modes of transmission, and means of infection control, but had no impact on paramedics' fear of contracting AIDS. While paramedics have a strong fear of contracting AIDS, we note that they underestimate their risk of acquiring hepatitis B. Only 17% of paramedics surveyed had received the hepatitis vaccine, despite attending an infectious disease seminar addressing the occupational risks of acquiring hepatitis B infections during the previous year. Further educational efforts to address the paramedics' attitudes about AIDS, as well as to encourage paramedics to recognize hepatitis B exposure as a significant personal health risk, are currently being pursued. 
The role of the pathologist in the management of breast cancer. The pathologist is a consultant in breast cancer management whose responsibility is to establish the histologic diagnosis of cancer as well as its anatomic extent once sufficient tissue has been provided. The consultation also provides data that may be used to aid in selecting primary or adjuvant therapy, evaluating new therapies, estimating prognosis, and assessing outcome. Examples of such data are the TNM histopathologic classification of the anatomic extent of the cancer used for the stage grouping (T = the extent of the primary tumor, N = the absence or presence and extent of regional lymph node metastasis, and M = the absence or presence of distant metastasis); tumor size, histologic type, and histologic and/or nuclear grade; assessment of blood vessel and lymphatic vessel invasion; analysis of steroid receptors, and other special studies as appropriate. 
Prominent meningeal "tail sign" in a patient with a metastatic tumor. A prominent enhancement of the dura adjacent to meningiomas has been described as being pathognomonic of these tumors. We describe a case where a classic meningeal "tail sign" was associated with an extra-axial metastatic tumor attached to the tentorium. There was no tumor invasion of the dura. We conclude that this sign is nonspecific and can be seen with dural-based tumors other than meningiomas. 
Recurrent haemospermia--underlying urogenital anomalies and efficacy of imaging procedures. Recurrent haemospermia is often regarded as "essential". Following routine diagnostic procedures, we found an associated factor in 54 of 72 patients (75%). With one exception (prostatic carcinoma), the benign character of the disease was confirmed. Urogenital infection was the most frequent concomitant finding (50%); in 26 men chronic prostatis was diagnosed. Other disorders such as hypertension and coagulation disorders played a minor role. Additional investigation of the prostate gland and seminal vesicles by transrectal prostatic ultrasonography revealed persistent asymmetry of the latter glands as the main finding in 20 men (28%). In every case seminal vesicle carcinoma was excluded; haemorrhage due to cystic distension, inflammatory lesions or ductal obstruction was associated in all cases with congenital abnormalities, chronic urogenital infection, coagulation disorders or hypertension. 
Obstructive dilatation of extrahepatic recipient and donor bile ducts complicating orthotopic liver transplantation: imaging and laboratory findings. Biliary obstruction in liver transplants is most commonly due to stricture at the biliary anastomosis. The native common bile duct typically is normal. We retrospectively studied 28 patients with choledochocholedochostomy anastomoses who had marked native and donor extrahepatic bile duct dilatation associated with clinical evidence of biliary obstruction. Operative cholangiograms were compared with postoperative cholangiograms obtained a mean of 50 weeks (range, 2-246 weeks) later. Mean caliber of the native common bile duct increased from 7.5 +/- 2.0 mm on operative cholangiograms to 14.8 +/- 3.9 mm on postoperative cholangiograms (p less than .001). Mean caliber of the donor common hepatic duct increased from 5.9 +/- 1.3 mm on operative cholangiograms to 12.8 +/- 3.8 mm on postoperative cholangiograms (p less than .001). Dilatation of the cystic duct remnant was seen in 15 patients. All patients had surgical revision to choledochojejunostomy with improved results of liver function studies in most cases. Diffuse dilatation of native and donor extrahepatic bile ducts may develop in liver transplant recipients. Typical features include native and donor extrahepatic ducts greater than 12 mm in diameter and a dilated cystic duct remnant on postoperative cholangiography in a patient with otherwise unexplained hepatic dysfunction. 
Regional cerebral blood flow in developmental stutterers. Stuttering is a poorly understood communication disorder with a 1% global prevalence. Recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in a neurogenic origin for the disorder, although no research has established clear neurological differences between "developmental" (stuttering onset in childhood) stutterers and nonstutterers. We have used xenon 133 single-photon emission computed tomography to study regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 20 stutterers. Analysis revealed global, absolute flow reductions. Relative flow asymmetries (left less than right) were identified in three hemispheric regions: anterior cingulate and superior and middle temporal gyri. Milder changes were found in the left inferior frontal gyrus. Stutterers had rCBF values below median for either anterior cingulate or middle temporal gyri. With one exception, severe stutterers had rCBF values below median for the anterior cingulate gyrus. All stutterers with rCBF values above median in the cingulate gyrus had rCBF values below median in the middle temporal gyrus, and severity of their disorder was either mild or moderate. Our findings suggest that stuttering is a neurogenic disorder involving recognized cortical regions of speech-motor control. 
What if Americans ate less fat? A quantitative estimate of the effect on mortality. Americans consume an average of 37% of their energy intake as fat. Many authorities recommend restricting fat intake to 30% of energy intake to reduce the rates of coronary heart disease and perhaps of cancers of the breast, colon, and prostate. Based on the assumptions that underlie those recommendations, we estimated the effect of this dietary change on mortality. If all Americans restricted their intake of dietary fat by reducing consumption of saturated fat and accompanying dietary cholesterol, the corresponding reductions in serum cholesterol levels could reduce coronary heart disease mortality rates by 5% to 20%, depending on age. If the relationship between dietary fat and cancer is as strong as has been observed in some studies, the proportional effects on mortality from fat-related cancers could be even greater, although the absolute effects--given the lower mortality rates--would be smaller. Overall, if the assumptions are correct, about 42,000 of the 2.3 million deaths that would have occurred in adults each year in the United States could be deferred. This 2% benefit, equivalent to an increase in average life expectancy of 3 to 4 months, would accrue chiefly to people over the age of 65 years. If recent concerns about the possibly harmful effects of cholesterol lowering on mortality from noncardiovascular causes--which mainly affect younger persons--are valid, these relatively modest benefits would be overestimates of the actual effect. 
Stimulation of pancreas and gastric carcinoma cell growth by interleukin 3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Hematopoietic growth factors have recently been well characterized by complementary DNA cloning. For human epidermal growth factor, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor recombinant proteins have been expressed in Escherichia coli. To reduce the toxic side effects of chemotherapy on the bone marrow, recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and recombinant human interleukin 3 were applied to patients suffering of gastrointestinal cancers. To determine the influence of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and recombinant human interleukin 3 on human pancreas and gastric cancer cell cells in vitro, a sensitive microculture test system was established that allows precise quantification of proliferation. A more than twofold enhancement of proliferation was observed by interleukin 3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in two of two cell cultures derived from gastric carcinoma cells, while two of nine cultures from pancreas carcinoma cells have shown enhanced cell growth in the presence of recombinant human interleukin 3 or recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. In comparison, recombinant human epidermal growth factor increased cell growth in two of two gastric and in five of nine pancreas carcinoma cultures. In general, 1-10 ng/mL of the growth factors yielded the highest growth rate, but even 1-pg amounts produced increased cell growth. Expression of messenger RNA for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interleukin 3, and the oncogene HER2/neu remained undetectable in all of the tested cell lines, while the various abundance of messenger RNA for the epidermal growth factor receptor was different in each cell line. The reported results imply that the hematopoietic growth factors interleukin 3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor influence cellular growth of pancreas and gastric carcinoma cells by a paracrine mechanism and may possess a more general regulatory function than originally anticipated. 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the cornea. We treated two patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the cornea without involvement of the corneoscleral limbus. Superficial keratectomy and cryotherapy in one patient and penetrating keratoplasty in the other patient resulted in no recurrence of the tumor after 46 and nine months, respectively. Actinic damage and late manifestation caused by poor vision in both eyes of both patients may have been the risk factors for development of this tumor. 
Intraocular pressure-dependent retinal vascular change in adult chronic open-angle glaucoma patients. Intraocular pressure (IOP)-dependent retinal vascular changes were investigated in 33 eyes of 33 adult chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG) patients by measuring major retinal vascular calibers at the optic disc border before and after mean (+/- standard deviation) IOP reduction from 35.3 (+/- 7.2) to 16.5 (+/- 4.7) mmHg for 11.2 (+/- 13.5) weeks. Both mean arterial and venous calibers were significantly reduced (P less than 0.0001 for each), from 87.8 (+/- 14.2) and 128.3 (+/- 20.8) microns at high IOP to 82.0 (+/- 13.8) and 121.4 (+/- 18.5) microns at low IOP. Arterial and venous caliber decreases correlated positively with magnitude of IOP reduction (r = 0.503, P less than 0.01 and r = 0.555, P less than 0.001, respectively). While the IOP-dependent retinal arterial caliber change was highly significant in patients 55 years of age or younger (r = 0.636, P less than 0.01) and in the overall study group, it was not significant in patients older than 55 years (r = 0.205, P greater than 0.1). Age seems to be more influential than magnitude of IOP reduction in patients older than 55. Thus, diminished IOP-dependent retinal arterial caliber change in the elderly may be one factor contributing to the higher incidence and prevalence of glaucoma in this population. 
Disturbed secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide in patients with persistent atrial standstill: endocrinologic silence. Persistent atrial standstill is a very rare pathophysiologic condition whose diagnosis is established when both electrical and mechanical silence of the atria are confirmed. To test the hypothesis that secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide is disturbed in patients with persistent atrial standstill, the response of atrial natriuretic peptide secretion and other neurohormonal factors during exercise was investigated in three patients with a rate-responsive ventricular demand (VVI) pacemaker implanted for confirmed persistent atrial standstill. The results were compared with those observed in eight normal subjects and patients with a rate-responsive VVI (Group A) or atrial demand (AAI) (Group B) pacemaker implanted for confirmed sick sinus syndrome. Patients in Group A displayed significant elevation of alpha-human atrial natriuretic peptide secretion both before and during exercise (122.5 +/- 14.8 and 207.5 +/- 8.3 pg/ml, respectively) compared with those in Group B (55 +/- 14.1 and 116.4 +/- 51.5 pg/ml, respectively) and the normal subjects (18.9 +/- 9.8 and 30.8 +/- 19.2 pg/ml, respectively). This indicated development of a nonphysiologic increase in atrial volume or pressure overload, or both, in rate-responsive VVI pacing because of lack of atrioventricular synchrony. However, patients with persistent atrial standstill had undetectable (less than 10 pg/ml) or almost undetectable secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide as well as lower levels of cyclic guanosine monophosphate in the circulation both before and during exercise. Changes in plasma catecholamines during exercise were similar in patients with persistent atrial standstill compared with the other groups. This study indicates that "endocrinologic silence" accompanies electrical and mechanical silence of the atria, which may constitute a third diagnostic clue to persistent atrial standstill. 
Do Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease patients of Jewish Libyan origin have unique clinical features? A focus of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is present in Israel among Jews born in Libya. The present study examines the clinical features in this particular group of patients. In a country-wide study of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, we identified 114 patients; 49 were Libyan immigrants, and 65 (three of whom had Libyan ancestors) were born in other countries. The clinical presentation and evolution of the disease is very similar in patients born in Libya and others without Libyan ancestors, but it tends to be more classical in the Libyan patients, with higher frequency of myoclonic jerks and periodic EEG and a progressive course of shorter duration. The Libyan patients tend to complain more often of headache, which is most probably an ethnic expression for depression and loss of concentration. There was no difference between the familial and nonfamilial cases. 
Diagnosis and treatment of cluster headache. This article classifies cluster headaches as distinct from other types of headaches and gives guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. Explanations of the pathophysiology and pathogenesis of cluster headaches are included also. 
Nosocomial pneumonia and the role of gastric pH. A meta-analysis. PURPOSE: To examine the differential effect of drugs used for stress ulcer prophylaxis on nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients. DATA IDENTIFICATION: Computerized bibliographic search of published and unpublished research. STUDY SELECTION: Independent review of 48 randomized controlled trials of prophylaxis identified eight relevant studies. DATA ABSTRACTION: The population, intervention, and outcomes were evaluated by duplicate independent review. RESULTS: The incidence of pneumonia was lower in critically ill patients receiving antacids and/or histamine-2-receptor antagonists as compared with patients receiving no stress ulcer prophylaxis (common odds ratio 0.42, 95 percent CI 0.17 to 1.11). When stress ulcer prophylactic therapy was titrated to achieve a gastric pH of 3.5 or greater, there was a trend favoring a decreased incidence of pneumonia (0.66, 95 percent CI 0.24 to 1.78). In trials comparing sucralfate with pH-altering drugs, the common odds ratio of 0.55 (0.28 to 1.06) suggests a 45 percent risk reduction with the use of sucralfate. CONCLUSION: Stress ulcer prophylaxis with drugs which raise gastric pH does not increase the incidence of pneumonia in comparison to placebo or control therapy. The use of sucralfate is associated with a lower incidence of nosocomial pneumonia in comparison to agents which raise gastric pH. However, methodologic deficiencies, small sample sizes, and the failure to examine the effects of antacids and histamine-2-receptor antagonists separately make a large prospective randomized trial necessary to confirm or refute these findings. 
Pharmacokinetic analysis of coronary venous retroinfusion: a comparison with anterograde coronary artery drug administration using metoprolol as a tracer. Plasma and myocardial tissue concentrations of metoprolol were studied in ischemic and nonischemic areas of 22 pigs after 90 (n = 19) and 16 (n = 3) min of left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion. Group A (n = 6) received simultaneous intravenous metoprolol (0.2 mg/kg body weight) and tritium-labeled (3H)-metoprolol (0.2 mg/kg) retrogradely into the coronary vein. In group B (n = 5), metoprolol and 3H-metoprolol were administered in the same way, but at half the volume to study the influence of derived coronary venous pressure on the myocardial concentration of drug. In group C (n = 3), metoprolol was given retrogradely and saline solution was infused into the left anterior descending artery before induced death to wash out metoprolol from the coronary veins. To rule out a possible influence of the development of myocardial necrosis on drug distribution, metoprolol was retroinfused after 1 min of arterial occlusion in three pigs (group D). In group E (n = 5), metoprolol (0.2 mg/kg) was infused anterogradely into the left anterior descending artery. Peak plasma concentration was significantly higher after intravenous infusion of metoprolol (1,188 +/- 503 nmol/liter) than after coronary venous infusion (417 +/- 155 nmol/liter; p less than 0.001). In groups A and B, the nonischemic myocardial concentration of metoprolol was 250 to 300 pmol/g, whether the drug was infused intravenously or into the coronary vein. Coronary venous retroinfusion, however, resulted in a substantial accumulation of metoprolol in the ischemic myocardium. In group A pigs, subendocardial myocardial concentration was 16,800 +/- 7,774, mid-myocardial 39,590 +/- 18,043 and subepicardial 57,143 +/- 29,030 pmol/g (mean +/- SE). The ischemic myocardial concentration in pigs from group B was somewhat less pronounced, probably secondary to a lower coronary venous pressure (15 +/- 3 mm Hg) with the lower volume of infusion (6.1 +/- 0.3 ml) in group B compared with 32 +/- 5 mm Hg with a 14 +/- 1 ml infusion in group A. Coronary artery anterograde administration resulted in myocardial ischemic and nonischemic zone drug concentrations similar to those observed after retroinfusion into the coronary vein. With both modes of administration, there was a transmyocardial gradient from a somewhat lower drug concentration in the subendocardium, toward an increasing level in the mid-myocardium, to the highest concentration in the subepicardial zone of the ischemic myocardium. Coronary venous retroinfusion resulted in pronounced drug accumulation in the ischemic myocardium. The derived coronary venous pressure during infusion influenced the concentration of drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Endocrine manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Endocrine manifestations of HIV infection include both pathological changes and disturbances in function. Mechanisms include direct infection of glands by HIV or opportunistic organisms, infiltration by neoplasms, side effects of drugs, and production of humoral factors that may alter metabolism. The adrenal gland is most often affected, but virtually every endocrine system may be involved. Dysfunction is often subtle, with symptoms overlapping those of the HIV infection itself. Endocrine manifestations may be found at any time in the course of the disease, from the asymptomatic HIV-positive stage through full-blown AIDS. Optimal management of these patients may include a careful search for, and appropriate treatment of, associated endocrine abnormalities. 
Uncemented total hip arthroplasty. Prospective analysis of the tri-lock femoral component. Fifty consecutive hip disease patients (56 hips) with total hip arthroplasties (THA) utilized the uncemented Tri-Lock femoral component. Forty-five patients (51 hips) were followed for an average of 46 months (range, 24-66). Forty-two patients (47 hips) were followed with clinical examination and roentgenographs, three (four hips) by telephone interview, four (four hips) were deceased, and one (one hip) was lost to follow-up evaluation. The diagnoses included osteoarthritis (30 hips), avascular necrosis (11 hips), juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (two hips), and degenerative joint disease secondary to childhood hip disorder (four hips). Of 47 hips, 34 were graded excellent, seven good, three fair, and three poor using the Harris hip score. The incidence of thigh pain was 19% at one year, but only 6% at final follow-up evaluation. Limp persisted in 19% of the patients. Of the three patients with four hips contacted by telephone, two had slight pain and two had no pain. The roentgenographic results found an alarming 38% incidence of varus shift of the components, relative to their preoperative position. The presence of a varus shift did not adversely affect the clinical results. Early experience with the Tri-Lock femoral component shows results comparable to those reported in the literature. The high incidence of femoral component shift, presumably because of geometry of the stem is of concern. Longer follow-up evaluation will be necessary to determine the fate of these uncemented THA operations. 
Gastric cancer after gastric bypass for obesity. Case report. We describe a patient in whom gastric cancer developed after gastric bypass for morbid obesity. In addition, we review the literature to emphasize the technical problems involved in diagnosing disease in the excluded portion of the stomach. 
A newly developed drug delivery system using fine particles of activated charcoal for targeting chemotherapy. Targeting chemotherapy to the metastatic lesions of the lymph nodes after surgical removal of the main tumor, a drug delivery system using ultrafine particles of activated charcoal was developed and examined for its ability to adsorb mitomycin C (MMC) and to transport MMC to the lymph system. Satisfactory results were obtained. In animal experiments, serial sampling of thoracic duct lymph by cannulation and serial samplings of peripheral vein blood after injection of MMC-charcoal solution into the subserosal space of the intestinal wall were made to study the pharmacodynamics of the lymph-blood system through analysis of MMC regression curves. Clearance (K) and half-life (t1/2) are calculated from the formula; C(t) = C(t0) X e-kt, and compared with that of MMC-saline. Activated charcoal has a proven ability to transport MMC to the lymphatic system. With activated charcoal, MMC is retained for much longer in the lymph nodes than with saline. Congestion of the lymph system was produced by ligation of the thoracic duct in CH-40, with 25% prolongation of t1/2. In conclusion, these drug delivery systems are suitable for targeting chemotherapy at lymph node metastases, and it is proven that 1500 AA Mitsubishi ultrafine charcoal is a good carrier of drug and a slow drug-release material in the lymphatics. Minimal side effects are expected because of the constant low concentrations in the general circulation. 
Efficacy of ICS 205-930, a novel 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist, in the prevention of migraine attacks. A complex answer to a simple question. ICS 205-930 Migraine Study Group. To investigate whether the novel, potent and highly selective 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist ICS 205-930 can prevent migraine attacks, we conducted simultaneously two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, international trials, involving a total of 204 patients, suffering from classic or common migraine. Both trials had the same parallel-group design (1 month baseline observation, followed by 3 months treatment) and both produced remarkably similar results. The primary efficacy parameter was the proportional reduction in attack frequency recorded after 3 months of treatment. Twenty-two patients withdrew prematurely from the trials and could not be assessed for efficacy. Mild to severe constipation was reported by about 50% of the patients on active treatment. None of the doses of ICS 205-930 tested (50 mg, 25 mg and 15 mg daily) produced a statistically significantly better result to reduce attack frequency than did placebo. However, confidence intervals for the difference in effect with placebo were wide, indicating that 15 mg ICS 205-930 may produce a 57% reduction in attack frequency as compared to placebo. The most unusual finding was that, for all efficacy parameters, the best results were obtained with the lowest dose (15 mg), the worst results with the highest dose (50 mg) and an intermediate effect with 25 mg. Such an inverse relation between dose and efficacy suggests a bell-shaped dose-response curve, implying that doses lower than 15 mg might well prove to be more effective. Thus, the present study has produced inconclusive, but intriguing results. Lower doses should be further investigated before drawing any definite conclusion on the efficacy of ICS 205-930 in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. 
Long-term followup results after expectant management of stage A1 prostatic cancer. A total of 132 patients with stage A1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate was followed for 5 to 23 years (mean 8.2 years). Of these patients 52 underwent a second staging transurethral resection of the prostate between 1977 and 1986. Progressive disease developed in 3 of the 12 patients (25%) in whom residual foci of well differentiated cancer were detected by the second transurethral resection and who did not undergo further treatment. Of the 38 patients in whom the second transurethral resection did not detect residual cancer 3 (8%) also had progressive disease. From April 1989 to December 1989, 44 patients were re-evaluated by transrectal ultrasonography and ultrasonographically guided biopsies. Of these patients 3 had locally progressive disease. Progressive disease also developed in 4 more patients. Thus, 13 of the 132 patients (10%) had either locally or systemically progressive disease after long-term followup. The interval from diagnosis of stage A1 disease to detection of progression ranged from 6 months to 20 years (mean 7 years). Ten patients underwent definitive treatment for what was believed to be locally progressive disease, 2 underwent palliative therapy and 1 had no therapy due to poor physical condition. Of the 10 patients who underwent definitive therapy 6 are alive without evidence of disease, 2 died of unrelated causes without evidence of disease and 2 are alive with stage D1 disease. These data suggest that patients in whom a second staging transurethral resection of the prostate detects residual cancer have a high probability of progressive disease. Also, negative findings from a second staging transurethral resection may not exclude the possibility of disease progression. Expectant management of stage A1 disease is warranted but regular and long-term followup is mandatory. 
The syndrome of alcoholic ketoacidosis. PURPOSE: To further elucidate the clinical spectrum of alcoholic ketoacidosis (AKA). PATIENTS AND METHODS: A case series of 74 patients with AKA defined as a wide anion gap metabolic acidosis unexplained by any other disorder or toxin, including any patient with a history of chronic alcohol abuse. The setting was the Medical Emergency Department at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia, a university-affiliated inner-city hospital. RESULTS: AKA is a common disorder in the emergency department, more common than previously thought. The acid-base abnormalities are more diverse than just a wide-gap metabolic acidosis and often include a concomitant metabolic alkalosis, hyperchloremic acidosis, or respiratory alkalosis. Lactic acidosis is also common. Semiquantitative serum acetoacetate levels were positive in 96% of patients. Elevated blood alcohol levels were present in two thirds of patients in whom alcohol levels were determined, and levels consistent with intoxication were seen in 40% of these patients. Electrolyte disorders including hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia were common on presentation. The most common symptoms were nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. The most common physical findings were tachycardia, tachypnea, and abdominal tenderness. Altered mental status, fever, hypothermia, or other abnormal findings were uncommon and reflected other underlying processes. CONCLUSIONS: AKA is a common disorder in chronic malnourished alcoholic persons. The acid-base abnormalities reflect not only the ketoacidosis, but also associated extracellular fluid volume depletion, alcohol withdrawal, pain, sepsis, or severe liver disease. Although the pathophysiology is complex, the syndrome is rapidly reversible and has a low mortality. 
Distribution of the VLA family of integrins in normal and pathological human liver tissue. The "very late activation" (VLA) subgroup of the integrin superfamily of adhesion molecules plays a central role in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. The six different VLA dimers known so far consist of a common beta subunit and a variable alpha (1 to 6) subunit. They serve as receptors for laminin, collagen, and fibronectin or function as adhesion molecules for leukocytes and are therefore of great significance in embryogenesis, growth and repair, and in leukocyte recirculation. The distribution of the common beta and the variable alpha chains of the VLA were studied in normal, inflammatory, and cholestatic liver biopsy samples. In normal liver tissue, vascular endothelia express alpha 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6; bile duct epithelium alpha 2, 3, 5, and 6; connective tissue stroma alpha 1 and 2; hepatocytes alpha 1 and 5; sinusoidal lining cells alpha 1, 2, and 5; and mononuclear cells alpha 4. Whereas bile ducts and vascular endothelia do not show relevant changes in alpha chain expression in liver diseases, hepatocytes de novo express membranous alpha 3 and 6 in inflammatory liver diseases. In view of the role of the VLA-3 and VLA-6 as laminin receptors, this finding is in line with the production of laminin in active liver disease. Moreover, de novo expression of "bile duct type" alpha 2, 3, and 6 on periportal hepatocytes in cholestatic liver disease likely illustrates a phenotypic switch of hepatocytes towards bile duct epithelium during cholestasis. 
Chlamydia trachomatis induces an inflammatory response in the male genital tract and is associated with altered semen quality. U. urealyticum with 15.8% and C. trachomatis antibodies with 15.4% were the most prevalent microbiological findings in 209 male infertility patients. The inflammatory marker granulocyte-elastase was significantly increased in men with C. trachomatis; these men also showed significantly decreased citric acid levels indicating inflammatory damage of the prostate induced by C. trachomatis. 
Amnesia following damage to the left fornix and to other sites. A comparative study. Two memory-impaired patients, who had suffered damage to the left or both fornix columns during removal of a ventricular cyst, were compared with 3 others having left-sided hippocampal or thalamic lesions, and with normal controls. The tests used were nonverbal--scene recognition, delayed matching-to-sample and concurrent pattern and object discrimination learning. The last two are differentially sensitive to fornix transection and to hippocampal or thalamic ablations in monkeys; however, the patients with fornix damage did not show a distinctive pattern of impairment. The reasons for this discrepancy are discussed. The study adds to the evidence that fornix transection can cause wide-ranging memory disturbances in man. 
Extent of mesiobasal resection determines outcome after temporal lobectomy for intractable complex partial seizures. The extent of resection was assessed in 94 patients who underwent temporal lobectomy for medically intractable complex partial seizures originating from a unilateral seizure focus in the anteromesial temporal lobe. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging in the coronal plane was used to quantify the extent of resection of lateral and mesiobasal structures according to a 20-compartment model of the temporal lobe. Successful seizure outcome (greater than or equal to 90% reduction in seizure frequency) was accomplished in 83% of the patients (all followed up for more than 1 year; mean duration of follow-up, 25.2 months) and correlated significantly (P less than 0.05) with the extent of mesiobasal resection, regardless of the extent of resection of lateral structures. Successful seizure outcome was accomplished in 81% of the patients with no structural lesions, and also correlated significantly (P less than 0.05) with the extent of mesiobasal resection regardless of the extent of lateral resection. A successful seizure outcome was accomplished in 90% of the 21 patients with structural lesions documented by neuroimaging studies. Two patients who underwent extensive lobectomy without resection of the structural lesion had no reduction in seizure frequency postoperatively. We conclude that the most important factor in determining the outcome of temporal lobectomy in patients with unilateral anteromesial temporal lobe epileptogenicity is the extent of resection of structures in the mesiobasal temporal lobe. In patients with structural lesions, lesion resection may be an added contributor to successful seizure outcome. 
Preoperative clinical evaluation as a predictor of cardiac complications after infrarenal aortic reconstruction. This paper analyses cardiac risk factors in 93 consecutive patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction over a 2 year period. During the perioperative or postoperative period, 26 patients sustained a total of 42 cardiac complications. Eight patients had myocardial infarction, 14 left ventricular failure and 15 arrhythmias. There were five cardiac-related deaths. Angina was the only statistically significant risk factor in predicting postoperative cardiac problems. A multivariate analysis identified a high-risk group of patients in whom cardiac complications after operation were common. 
Hydroa vacciniforme with unusually severe scar formation: diagnosis by repetitive UVA phototesting. Hydroa vacciniforme is a rare, chronic, photosensitive disorder manifested in childhood by recurrent vesicles that heal with scarring. Reproduction of vesicles with repetitive UVA phototesting may be an important diagnostic aid. Recurrent eruption resulted in severe scarring of the face and a flexion contracture of the finger in our patient. The clinical features and laboratory evaluation of hydroa vacciniforme are reviewed. 
Penetration of erythromycin into periapical lesions after repeated doses of erythromycin acistrate and erythromycin stearate: a pilot study. In 26 patients who had undergone apicectomy and extirpation of granulomas (n = 9) or radicular cysts (n = 17), concentrations of erythromycin, 2'-acetyl erythromycin, and their anhydro forms were determined with a novel chemical method in plasma and periapical lesions after at least 2 days of treatment with erythromycin acistrate (EA) (400 mg three times daily, n = 11) or erythromycin stearate (ES) (500 mg three times daily, n = 15). Oral surgery was performed 2 1/2 to 3 hours after the last dose. Blood samples were collected at the time of operation, and immediately before antibiotic treatment, and 1, 2, and 6 hours after treatment. At all time points EA produced at least twice the total antibiotic (2'-acetyl erythromycin plus erythromycin) concentrations in plasma as ES. Erythromycin levels in plasma were at least as high after EA treatment as after ES. In periapical lesions erythromycin concentration after EA was three times higher (1.34 +/- 0.28 micrograms/gm) than after ES treatment (0.40 +/- 0.17 micrograms/gm). Although the total drug concentration in periapical lesions was about the same after EA (2.64 micrograms/ml) and ES (3.41 micrograms/ml), most of the drug recovered after ES was antimicrobially inactive anhydroerythromycin (3.01 micrograms/gm). The concentration of anhydroerythromycin in plasma was approximately the same as that of erythromycin after ES throughout the dose interval. After EA treatment both plasma and the periapical lesion samples contained hardly detectable amounts of anhydroerythromycin. Hence EA has a good bioavailability essential for treatment and prophylaxis of bacterial infections in dentistry. 
The ventilatory threshold: method, protocol, and evaluator agreement. To evaluate the effects of different methods of detection, exercise modes, protocols, and reviewers on oxygen uptake (VO2) at the ventilatory threshold (ATge), 17 men with heart disease (mean age 59 +/- 6 years) and six healthy men (mean age 60 +/- 11 years) underwent six exercise tests on different days. Each subject performed three treadmill tests (Bruce, Balke, and ramp) and three bicycle ergometer tests (50 W/stage, 25 W/stage, and ramp) in random order. The ventilatory threshold was determined for each of the six exercise tests by three independent, blinded reviewers by means of graphic plots of three commonly used methods of determination: (1) changes in the ventilatory equivalents for VO2 and VCO2, (2) changes in end-tidal oxygen and carbon dioxide pressures, and (3) the intersection of the slope of VCO2 and VO2 (V slope). The largest variability in the ATge was observed with changes in the exercise protocol. The greatest absolute (ml/min) and percentage differences in oxygen uptake at the ATge as a result of changes in protocol, method of determination, and observers were 336 (36%), 125 (12%), and 70 (7%), respectively. The overall intraclass correlation coefficient for VO2 at the ATge among the three reviewers was 0.60 and among the three protocols was 0.85 (p less than 0.01). The V slope method of detection had consistently good agreement among reviewers and was least affected by the protocol. The variance in the ATge (excluding intersubject and error variance) accounted for by differences in protocol, method, and reviewer was 82%, 14%, and 4%, respectively. 
Bacterial infection as a complication of liver transplantation: epidemiology and risk factors. A retrospective survey was undertaken to characterize the epidemiology of bacterial infection in 79 patients who underwent 103 operations for orthotopic liver transplantation. Fifty-four patients (68%) developed 115 bacterial infections (1.46 episodes per patient), and seven patients died as a result of these infections. Fifty-three percent of bacterial infections occurred within 2 weeks after transplantation and were designated as early infections. The most common sites of infection were the abdomen (35 cases), the bloodstream (31 cases), and the surgical wound (19 cases). Aerobic enteric gram-negative bacilli were the predominant pathogens, and other pathogenic organisms were enterococci, staphylococci, and Pseudomonas bacteria. Logistic regression analysis identified prolonged duration of surgery (greater than or equal to 8 hours) and an elevated bilirubin level (greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL) as risk factors for early bacterial infection at any site; risk factors for abdominal or wound infection were prolonged duration of surgery, increased operative transfusion requirement (greater than or equal to 2 blood volumes), and prior hepatobiliary surgery. Awareness of the sites, pathogens, and time of onset of bacterial infection provides a basis for improved prophylaxis and empiric therapy. 
Roentgenographic dimensions of the upper airway in snoring patients with and without obstructive sleep apnea. The purpose of this study was to examine whether a simple test, such as routine roentgenographic views of the upper airway, is useful in identifying anatomic narrowing of the airway in patients with sleep apnea. To accomplish this, we prospectively studied a group of 117 patients (95 male and 22 female subjects) referred for evaluation of heavy snoring and possible obstructive sleep apnea. All patients had full nocturnal polysomnography, including measurements of snoring. Lateral view of the airway obtained after swallowing contrast material was used to measure pharyngeal diameters at three sites along the airway. All measurements were performed with the patients standing and supine. We used three different definitions of sleep apnea (apnea/hypopnea index of 10, 20, and 40), and compared airway diameters between the apneic and nonapneic snorers. Only when sleep apnea was defined as greater than 40 apneas plus hypopneas per hour of sleep was there a significant difference in airway diameter at the tip of the palate and 1 cm distal to it between apneic and nonapneic snorers. Both groups of patients demonstrated a significant reduction in the retropalatal distance on assumption of the supine posture. Stepwise, forward, multiple linear regression analysis showed that the retropalatal distance and airway diameter at the tip of the palate and 1 cm distal to it were significant predictors of snoring, but not apnea. We conclude that (1) airway diameters account for some of the variability in snoring, and (2) they do not differentiate between apneic and nonapneic snorers. 
Randomized study of vancomycin versus teicoplanin for the treatment of gram-positive bacterial infections in immunocompromised hosts. Seventy-four immunocompromised patients with severe infection due to gram-positive organisms were randomized to receive either vancomycin or teicoplanin. Extensive cancer was present in 71 patients, of whom 47 died within a month. The types of infections were 46 bacteremias (39 associated with central catheters), 24 skin and soft tissue infections (3 with bacteremia), and 7 others (mainly bronchopneumonia). The most frequent pathogen was Staphylococcus epidermidis, followed by Staphylococcus aureus. Microbiological eradication was obtained in 23 of 35 evaluable patients treated with vancomycin (65.7%) and 28 of 36 patients treated with teicoplanin (77.8%) (P = 0.4). Clinical cure and improvement were obtained in 26 of 35 patients (74.3%) and 27 of 36 patients (75.0%), respectively. No significant side effects were observed with teicoplanin, in contrast to reversible increases in serum creatinine (three patients) and skin rashes (four patients) with vancomycin. Superinfection was observed in five patients treated with vancomycin and two patients treated with teicoplanin. No relation was found between peak concentration in serum (at steady state) or bactericidal titers and outcome. 
Immunocytochemical analysis of the cellular infiltrate in primary regressing and non-regressing malignant melanoma. Spontaneous regression occurs in a small proportion of malignant melanomas, and it is important to understand the processes involved in its induction as this may give a guide to future therapies for this disease. We have examined 36 primary malignant melanomas (19 regressing, 17 non-regressing) and identified the cellular phenotypes and activation states of the cells infiltrating regressing and non-regressing primary melanomas by immunochemistry. We have found a significantly increased number of CD3-positive cells and an increased ratio of CD4/CD8-positive cells infiltrating regressing compared to non-regressing tumors. In addition, the expression of the interleukin 2 receptor, an activation marker for T cells, was increased. However, there were no significant differences in class II MHC, CD1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), or melanoma-associated differentiation-antigen expression in these tumors. These data are consistent with melanoma regression being induced by activated CD4 T cells and do not seem to be related to the differentiation markers we have examined on these tumors. 
Elective cholecystectomy and carcinoma of the gallbladder. The incidence of carcinoma of the gallbladder has been reputed to be approximately 1.5 per cent among those who undergo surgery for chronic cholecystitis. The incidence at Cabrini Medical Center coincides rather well with that from other studies but has shown a marked decline, 21.5 per cent, within recent years. A report from the American Cancer Society projects an even greater decline to 0.65 per cent in the incidence of this almost incurable disease within the next 1-2 years. The decrease in the incidence of cancer of the gallbladder is attributed to the great increase in the performance of elective cholecystectomy for chronic cholecystitis among people 50 years of age or younger, before they have reached the age when carcinoma of the gallbladder is most prevalent. Early surgery is advocated not only as an effective and safe form of therapy but also as a valuable preventive measure. 
A geriatric-anesthesiologic program to reduce acute confusional states in elderly patients treated for femoral neck fractures. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of a geriatric-anesthesiologic intervention program for the prevention and treatment of acute confusional states (ACS) in elderly patients treated for femoral neck fractures. The intervention program was based on the results of previous prospective studies in similar patient populations. The outcome of the intervention, comprising 103 patients, was compared with that of an earlier study comprising 111 patients. The intervention program consisted of pre- and post-operative geriatric assessments, oxygen therapy, early surgery, prevention and treatment of peri-operative blood pressure falls and treatment of post-operative complications. The incidence of ACS was lower, 47.6%, in the intervention study compared with 61.3% (P less than 0.05) in the control study. Furthermore, the ACS that occurred in the intervention study was less severe and of shorter duration than that in the control study. The incidence of post-operative decubital ulcers, severe falls, and urinary retention was also lower. The mean duration of orthopedic ward stay was 17.4 days in the control study and 11.6 days in the intervention study (P less than 0.001). It can be concluded that the intervention program reduced the incidence, severity, and duration of ACS which resulted in a shortened orthopedic ward stay. 
Cardiac function after hepatic ischemia-anoxia and reperfusion injury: a new experimental model. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: During liver transplantation, reperfusion of the donor liver and in the clinical setting, end-stage liver disease, have occasionally resulted in profound cardiovascular disturbances. The etiology of hepatic injury-induced myocardial dysfunction is still unclear. In this study, the aims were to develop an experimental model that would facilitate the study of the effects of hepatic failure on myocardial function and to determine whether hepatic ischemia or anoxia and reperfusion injury of similar duration would result in the same degree of hepatic failure. Seventy male Sprague-Dawley rats were used as organ donors. Three simultaneous liver-heart perfusions (corresponding to three groups) were established using a modified Krebs-Henseleit buffer with 2% bovine albumin, membrane oxygenation, and a peristaltic pump. Group 1 (n = 10) and group 2 (n = 15) experiments consisted of liver-heart perfusions after 90 mins of normothermic hepatic ischemia or 90 mins of hepatic anoxia, respectively, followed by reoxygenation and 60 mins of reperfusion. Group 3 (n = 8) experiments consisted of sham liver-heart perfusions studied over the same experimental time period (60 mins). Myocardial function variables, liver function tests, arterial blood gases, and electrolytes were measured at baseline and at 3-, 10-, 30-, and 60-min intervals during reperfusion in all experiments. RESULTS: Ischemia or anoxia-induced hepatic failure resulted in a similar degree of hepatic dysfunction. Both forms of acute hepatic failure caused significant increases in liver function tests, a reduction in heart rate (p less than .05), coronary flow (p less than .05), and an increase in calculated coronary vascular resistance (p less than .05). There were no changes in buffer pH, CO2, or ionized calcium that could explain the coronary vasoconstriction. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatic dysfunction induced by ischemia or anoxia of similar duration results in a similar hepatic metabolic profile during reperfusion and can cause direct myocardial dysfunction of the isolated perfused rat heart. 
Complications of infection and immunologic status after surgery for patients with esophageal cancer. Correlations between defective cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and infections following surgery for esophageal cancer were evaluated. Peripheral lymphocytes, T cells, B cells, PHA transformation, and PPD skin test were measured in 81 patients with esophageal cancer, 58 with gastric cancer, and 50 healthy controls. The depression of CMI was predominant to a similar extent in patients with esophageal cancer and in those with gastric cancer. The average level of PHA transformation immediately before surgery was significantly lower in the esophageal cancer patients with fatal septic complications than in those without such problems. Although preoperative radiation therapy markedly depressed the levels of the four parameters, this association was also noted in 28 patients not given radiation. It thus appears that PHA transformation may be valuable in the prediction of fatal septic complications after major surgery in patients with esophageal cancer. 
Impact of two cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with intraarterial cisplatin and intravenous doxorubicin on the choice of surgical procedure for high-grade bone sarcomas of the extremities. The authors assessed the impact of two cycles of preoperative chemotherapy (POCT) with intraarterial cisplatin (120 mg/m2) and continuous intravenous doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin; 20 mg/m2/day x 3 days) on the decision to perform a limb-sparing procedure (LSP) or amputation in 22 patients with high-grade bone sarcomas of the extremities. The tumor types were osteosarcoma (17), malignant fibrous histiocytoma (three), leiomyosarcoma (one), and malignant schwannoma (one). Surgical stages were IIA (three), IIB (17), and IIIB (two). The prechemotherapy surgical options chosen were 12 amputations (55% of patients) and ten LSPs (45%). The initial decisions to amputate were based on a combination of the following: improper biopsy (five cases), large tumors (ten) and those with neurovascular encroachment (six), and pathological fracture (one). Following chemotherapy, 18 LSPs (81%) and four amputations (19%) were performed. Nine of 12 patients (75%) initially deemed unresectable were converted to LSP. The median tumor response (necrosis; range, 0%-100%) was 70%; ten of 22 specimens had necrosis greater than 95%. Median tumor necrosis for the patients treated by amputation and LSPs was 45% and 88%, respectively. Following surgery, all patients received four additional cycles of cisplatin and doxorubicin. The median follow-up period is 30 months; six patients have developed metastatic disease, with a median disease-free interval of 16.6 months. The rate of local tumor control is 95% (21 of 22 patients). 
Prevalence and treatment of giardiasis in chronic diarrhoea and malnutrition. To determine the prevalence of giardiasis in Gambian children with chronic diarrhoea and to assess their response to treatment, 31 children with chronic diarrhoea and malnutrition were investigated for giardiasis using a combination of serology (specific antigiardia IgM antibody) and microscopy of faeces and jejunal biopsy specimens. Fourteen of 31 children with chronic diarrhoea had giardiasis compared with only four of 33 healthy age and sex matched control children. Four of 15 malnourished children without diarrhoea were giardia positive. Twenty-three children with chronic diarrhoea were reinvestigated after treatment with metronidazole; giardia was found in 11 of them. These results show that giardia is highly prevalent in children with chronic diarrhoea and malnutrition and that the infection does not respond to standard therapeutic measures. 
Cardiac toxicity 4 to 20 years after completing anthracycline therapy. OBJECTIVE.--To assess the cardiac status of long-term survivors of pediatric malignancies who received chemotherapy, including anthracyclines. DESIGN AND METHOD.-Patients were evaluated by echocardiogram from 4 to 20 years (median, 7 years) after completion of anthracyclines, with prospective and retrospective analysis. PATIENTS.--The consecutive sample of 201 patients had received a total anthracycline dose of 200 to 1275 mg/m2 (median, 450 mg/m2), and 51 patients had mediastinal radiotherapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--The overall incidence and severity of abnormal systolic cardiac function were determined for the entire cohort. Risk factors of total anthracycline dose, mediastinal radiotherapy, age during treatment, and length of follow-up were examined. RESULTS.--Twenty-three percent (47/201) of the cohort had abnormal cardiac function on noninvasive testing at long-term follow-up. Correlation between total cumulative dose, length of follow-up, and mediastinal irradiation with incidence of abnormalities was significant. Fifty-six patients were followed up for 10 years or more (median, 12 years), with a median anthracycline dose of 495 mg/m2. Thirty-eight percent (21/56) of these patients, compared with 18% (26/145) of patients evaluated after less than 10 years, had abnormal findings. Sixty-three percent of patients followed up for 10 years or more after receiving 500 mg/m2 or more of anthracyclines had abnormal findings. Nine of 201 patients had late symptoms, including cardiac failure and dysrhythmia, and three patients died suddenly. Microscopic examination of the myocardium on biopsy and autopsy revealed fibrosis. CONCLUSION.--The 23% incidence of late cardiac abnormalities warrants continued evaluation of patients after anthracyclines to guide patient care and the design of future chemotherapeutic protocols. 
Carcinomatous meningitis: antibody-guided therapy with I-131 HMFG1. Seven patients with carcinomatous meningitis were administered intrathecal I-131 labelled monoclonal antibody HMFG1. Clinical responses were seen in two patients, with a long term survivor at 32 months. Aseptic meningitis occurred in 4/7 patients, but more serious toxicity was observed in the form of seizures (2/7 patients) and myelosuppression (3/7 patients). Partial obliteration of the subarachnoid space was identified as a potential problem in patients with advanced disease. 
Computer-assisted superimposition of magnetic resonance and high-resolution technetium-99m-HMPAO and thallium-201 SPECT images of the brain. A method for registering three-dimensional CT, MR, and PET data sets that require no special patient immobilization or other precise positioning measures was adapted to high-resolution SPECT and MRI and was applied in 14 subjects (five normal volunteers, four patients with dementia (Alzheimer's disease), two patients with recurrent glioblastoma, and three patients with focal lesions (stroke, arachnoid cyst and head trauma]. T2-weighted axial magnetic resonance images and transaxial 99mTc-HMPAO and 201Tl images acquired with an annular gamma camera were merged using an objective registration (translation, rotation and rescaling) program. In the normal subjects and patients with dementia and focal lesions, focal areas of high uptake corresponded to gray matter structures. Focal lesions observed on MRI corresponded to perfusion defects on SPECT. In the patients who had undergone surgical resection of glioblastoma followed by interstitial brachytherapy, increased 201Tl corresponding to recurrent tumor could be localized from the superimposed images. The method was evaluated by measuring the residuals in all subjects and translational errors due to superimposition of deep structures in the 12 subjects with normal thalamic anatomy and 99mTc-HMPAO uptake. This method for superimposing magnetic resonance and high-resolution SPECT images of the brain is a useful technique for correlating regional function with brain anatomy. 
Effect of Iraqi missile war on incidence of acute myocardial infarction and sudden death in Israeli civilians. The Iraqi missile attack on Israel provided a unique opportunity to study the effects of fright due to a perceived threat of annihilation on the incidence of acute myocardial infarction (MI) and sudden death among the civilian population. During the first days of the Gulf war we noted a sharp rise in the incidence of acute MI and sudden death in our area compared with five control periods. Patient population in the various study periods did not differ significantly in age, sex ratio, hospital mortality, or proportion of patients in whom the acute event was the first presentation of coronary disease. However, during the first period of the war there were more cases of anterior wall MI and more patients received thrombolytic therapy than during control periods. Despite the continuing missile threat, the incidence of acute MI reverted to normal after the initial phase of the Gulf war. 
Correlative angiographic and pathologic findings in the diagnosis of ulcerated plaques in the carotid artery. We determined the accuracy of angiography in the diagnosis of internal carotid ulcers by comparing the angiographic reports with the pathologic findings in 36 endarterectomy specimens. Eighteen of these specimens had microscopic ulcerations, and the observer with the highest accuracy rate read 12, of which ten were ulcerated. These results revealed a sensitivity of 56%, a specificity of 89%, and an overall accuracy of 61% for angiography. The ulcers were classified into types A, B, and C to assess the interobserver agreement rate among three readers. This resulted in a 4% interobserver agreement among a total of 75 ulcers. Because of the high interobserver disagreement and the poor correlation between angiographic and pathologic findings in the surgical specimens, we conclude that the diagnosis of carotid artery ulceration by angiography is not reliable. 
Measurement of hip prostheses using image analysis. The maxima hip technique. A computer-based image analysis system has been developed as a research tool in total hip replacement. The system has been programmed to take multiple measurements from coronal plane radiographs. Poor quality radiographic images can be enhanced and standardised. The measurements which can be obtained include stem subsidence, cup migration, cup wear, and stem loosening. Reproducibility and accuracy were +/- 0.01 mm and +/- 0.5 mm respectively. The present application is in retrospective research, but prospective monitoring of radiographs is planned. 
Failure of wild-type or a mutant form of protein kinase C-alpha to transform fibroblasts. A mutant form of the alpha-isoform of protein kinase C (PKC) was recently isolated from an ultraviolet radiation-induced murine fibrosarcoma cell line and reported to transform mouse BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts on transfection. Four point mutations in the regulatory domain were assumed to be responsible for its oncogenicity and unusual preference for membrane localization. Here, we report that overexpression of the reported mutant PKC alpha complementary DNA in three fibroblast cell lines, including BALB/c 3T3, does not enable these cells to grow in soft agar or nude mice. In addition, this mutant PKC alpha form seems to be indistinguishable from the wild-type PKC alpha with respect to its dependence on cofactors, phorbol ester binding, subcellular distribution and its effects on growth and morphology. These results fail to confirm the previous study and indicate that overexpression of either the wild-type or the reported mutant form of PKC alpha does not transform rodent fibroblasts. 
Analysis of pituitary hormones and chromogranin A mRNAs in null cell adenomas, oncocytomas, and gonadotroph adenomas by in situ hybridization. To study the relationship between null cell adenomas, oncocytomas and gonadotroph adenomas, we analyzed 32 surgically removed formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded pituitary tumors for the expression of pituitary hormone messenger RNAs (mRNAs) by in situ hybridization (ISH). Most tumors were also analyzed for chromogranin A mRNA. To identify the cell type constituting the tumors and to assess hormone content, all tumors were investigated by histology, transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Most null cell adenomas (6/11) and gonadotroph adenomas (9/10) expressed the mRNAs for alpha-subunit of glycoprotein hormones whereas only 2/11 oncocytomas expressed alpha-subunit mRNA. FSH beta and/or LH beta mRNA were present in most null cell and gonadotroph adenomas but only in a few oncocytomas. Prolactin (PRL) mRNA was detected in two null cell tumors and in one gonadotroph adenoma, whereas GH and POMC mRNA were present in one null cell adenoma. Chromogranin A mRNA, which codes for the major secretory granule protein, was present in 25/26 tumors including all tumors that were negative for pituitary hormone mRNAs, indicating adequate preservation of specific mRNA transcripts in the paraffin-embedded sections of tumor cells. These results indicate that null cell adenomas and gonadotroph adenomas are closely related neoplasms and that oncocytomas may represent a functionally defective form of null cell adenoma characterized by mitochondrial abundance, which has retained the capacity to synthesize the major secretory granule protein chromogranin A. Although the cytogenesis of null cell adenomas and oncocytomas is not clear, it can be suggested that these two tumor types are derived from a pluripotential precursor cell that is capable of undergoing multidirectional differentiation and synthesizing various hormones, mainly glycoproteins. 
Localization of endogenous beta-galactoside-binding lectin as a means to distinguish malignant from benign skin tissue. The immunolocalization of a 30-kd endogenous lectin, referred to as galaptin, was studied in various skin tumor types. Basal cell carcinomas expressed little or no galaptin, whereas nonmalignant basaloid cells, squamous cell carcinomas, melanoma, nevi, and stroma showed more prominent galaptin immunostaining. Therefore, the immunodetection of galaptin may aid the dermatopathologist in difficult histologic diagnosis. 
Pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials in syringomyelia. Pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials following CO2 laser stimulation (pain SEPs) and conventional electrically-stimulated SEPs (electric SEPs) were examined in 8 patients with syringomyelia who showed various forms of dissociated sensory loss. Unlike clinical examination using a pin or needle, pain SEP is considered to be an objective and quantitative test to investigate functions of peripheral and central sensory pathways responsible for pain-temperature sensation (A delta fibres and the spinothalamic tract). Pain SEPs were abnormal in all patients. The results were generally compatible with the degree of a clinical impairment of pain-temperature sensation. Subclinical abnormality was detected in 3 patients. Electric median nerve SEPs using the scalp reference (Fz) were normal in 6 out of 8 patients. However, anterior and posterior cervical responses using a noncephalic reference were absent or small in 7 patients. Electric SEPs following tibial nerve stimulation were normal in 7 patients. These findings suggest that the function of the ascending fibres through the dorsal columns is intact in most patients, whereas the dorsal horn, where a fixed cervical potential is generated, is impaired. Pain SEPs combined with electric SEPs therefore appear to be extremely useful for investigating physiological function in the sensory pathways in patients who show 'dissociated sensory loss' such as in syringomyelia. 
Coronary-subclavian steal: correction of recurrent angina and cerebrovascular symptoms. Six months following aortic valve replacement and myocardial revascularization using the left internal mammary artery as a pedicle graft, recurrent angina and cerebrovascular symptoms occurred in our patient. Cardiac catheterization demonstrated a subtotal stenosis of the proximal left subclavian artery and a patent internal mammary artery graft with angiographic steal from the myocardium. The angina and cerebrovascular symptoms were relieved with correction of the proximal subclavian stenosis by balloon angioplasty. This demonstrates the importance of aortic arch and subclavian evaluation and selected angiography prior to myocardial revascularization using the internal mammary artery as a pedicle graft. 
Small animal thrombosis models for the evaluation of thrombolytic agents. BACKGROUND. Two thrombosis models for the evaluation of thrombolytic agents in small animals (less than 100 g) were evaluated: an iodine-125 fibrin-labeled rat plasma clot in the inferior caval vein of 3-4-week-old rats and a pulmonary embolus in adult hamsters that had been obtained by injection of a 125I fibrin-labeled human plasma clot. The extent of thrombolysis was determined by continuous external monitoring of radioisotope over the thrombus region and by ex vivo recovery of residual clot. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the rat model, infusion of solvent for 60 minutes was associated with mean +/- SEM lysis within 90 minutes of 13 +/- 3% (n = 8) by external counting and 26 +/- 4% (n = 8) by radioisotope recovery. Intravenous infusion of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) over 60 minutes caused dose-dependent progressive clot lysis; with 0.5 mg/kg, producing a plasma level of 0.14 +/- 0.04 microgram/ml, lysis was 64 +/- 9% (n = 4) by external gamma counting and 78 +/- 4% (n = 4) by residual isotope in the vein segment and was not associated with significant fibrinogen or alpha 2-antiplasmin breakdown. In the hamster model, infusion of solvent for 60 minutes was associated with lysis within 90 minutes of 19 +/- 4% (n = 11) by external gamma counting and 31 +/- 3% (n = 14) by residual radioisotope. Intravenous rt-PA during 60 minutes resulted in dose-dependent progressive thrombolysis; with 0.5 mg/kg, producing a plasma level of 0.14 +/- 0.01 micrograms/ml, lysis was 50 +/- 4% (n = 4) by external gamma counting and 78 +/- 5% (n = 4) by residual radioactivity, without an extensive decrease in fibrinogen or alpha 2-antiplasmin. Parallel experiments in the rabbit jugular vein thrombosis model with a rabbit blood clot with intravenous infusion over 4 hours produced 7 +/- 2% (n = 9) lysis with solvent and dose-dependent progressive lysis with rt-PA; with 1 mg/kg, producing a plasma level of 0.20 +/- 0.03 microgram/ml, lysis was 56 +/- 7% (n = 7) by external gamma counting and 61 +/- 7% (n = 7) by residual radioactivity, without extensive consumption of fibrinogen or alpha 2-antiplasmin. CONCLUSIONS. These two thrombosis models in small animals are as reproducible and quantitative as the extensively used rabbit jugular vein thrombosis model. The hamster pulmonary embolism model is superior because it is simpler and more straightforward and allows the performance of as many as 10 experiments by one investigator in 1 day. 
Tuberculous pleural effusions: increased culture yield with bedside inoculation of pleural fluid and poor diagnostic value of adenosine deaminase. A prospective study of 111 adult patients with a pleural effusion was carried out in an area with a high prevalence of tuberculosis to compare the yield of bedside with laboratory inoculation of pleural fluid, and the yield and speed of a radiometric mycobacterial culture system (BACTEC) with that of conventional culture. The use of adenosine deaminase activity in pleural fluid as a diagnostic test for tuberculosis was also evaluated. In the 62 cases of tuberculosis confirmed histologically or by culture, or both, the BACTEC system had the same culture yield as conventional mycobacterial culture (positive in 14 cases-23%), but was significantly faster (18 versus 33 days). Bedside inoculation had a culture yield significantly higher than laboratory inoculation in the 24 patients tested (11 versus four). The remaining three diagnostic categories were malignant (28), miscellaneous (10), and undiagnosed (11). Median adenosine deaminase activity was significantly higher in tuberculous effusions than in any of the other categories, but there was considerable overlap between the groups. It is concluded that the BACTEC system is significantly faster than conventional mycobacterial culture and that bedside inoculation of pleural fluid substantially increases culture yield. Adenosine deaminase does not provide as valuable a diagnostic test of pleural tuberculosis as has been suggested. 
The role of preoperative CT scans in staging external auditory meatus carcinoma: radiologic-pathologic correlation study. Survival is related to the pathologic extent of tumor in external auditory meatus (EAM) carcinoma. This study assesses the validity of preoperative CT scans in staging EAM carcinoma. The accuracy of staging EAM carcinoma with preoperative CT scans was evaluated by comparing radiography and histopathology. Patients who received preoperative CT scan were selected from a retrospective series of 35 temporal bone resections for EAM squamous cell carcinoma. The CT scans were systematically reviewed for tumor involvement in 12 anatomic areas. The histopathology slides for the corresponding patients were reviewed according to the same criteria. CT scan findings accurately diagnosed the extent of tumor involvement identified during histopathologic examination. These tumors demonstrated the capacity to spread along existing anatomic pathways as well as direct bone erosion. We conclude that preoperative CT scans accurately stage EAM squamous cell carcinoma. 
Effect of acupuncture-point stimulation on diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive subjects: a preliminary study. Electrical stimulation of four specific acupuncture points (Liver 3, Stomach 36, Large Intestine 11, and the Groove for Lowering Blood Pressure) was examined in order to determine the effect of this stimulation on diastolic blood pressure in 10 subjects with diastolic hypertension. Subjects were randomly divided into two groups: (1) an Acu-ES group, which received electrical stimulation applied to the four antihypertensive acupuncture points, and (2) a Sham-ES group, which received electrical stimulation applied to non-acupuncture-point areas. A repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed a significant, immediate poststimulation reduction of diastolic blood pressure for the Acu-Es group versus the Sham-ES group. Further studies are needed to determine whether there are other acupuncture points, stimulation characteristics, or modalities that can enhance this treatment effect and whether the treatment effect can last for a clinically significant period of time. 
The European Stroke Prevention Study (ESPS): results by arterial distribution. The European Stroke Prevention Study was a multicenter study comparing the effect of the combination of dipyridamole, 75 mg, and acetylsalicylic acid, 330 mg, three times a day, to that of placebo in 2,500 patients in the secondary prevention of stroke or death after one or more transient ischemic attacks, reversible ischemic neurological deficits, or strokes of atherothrombotic origin. The patients with vertebrobasilar events at entry comprised one-third of the whole patient population. The overall total incidence of stroke or death (the end points) during the 2-year follow-up in the placebo group was lower in the vertebrobasilar group compared to the carotid group (14% versus 24%, respectively). The combination therapy of dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid caused a marked reduction in the incidence of stroke or death in patients with vertebrobasilar (51%) and carotid (30%) events. When only stroke was considered as the end point, dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid seemed to be more effective in reducing the risk of transient ischemic attacks than stroke, and more effective in men than in women. 
Frequency and mechanism of bradycardia in cardiac transplant recipients and need for pacemakers. Orthotopic cardiac transplantation is occasionally complicated by unexplained bradyarrhythmias. Sinus node injury as a consequence of operation or acute rejection has anecdotally been linked to the development of bradycardia early after transplantation. These arrhythmias are empirically managed by pacemaker implantation, the indications for which remain poorly defined. This retrospective study examined the 20-year experience of our institution with bradyarrhythmias after transplantation to determine the predisposing factors and indications for pacemaker implantation. Forty-one of 556 patients in our cardiac transplant program (7.4%) received permanent pacemakers between 1969 and 1989. The predominant rhythm disturbances were junctional rhythm (46%), sinus arrest (27%) and sinus bradycardia (17%). Most patients were asymptomatic (61%), and presented in the early post-transplant period (73%). Four possible predisposing factors were evaluated: (1) graft ischemic time, (2) rejection history, (3) use of bradycardia-inducing drugs, and (4) anatomy of blood supply to the sinoatrial (SA) node. No significant differences existed between patients with and without pacemakers with regard to the first 3 variables. However, after transplantation angiograms showed that prevalence of abnormal SA nodal arteries was greater in patients with than without pacemakers (p less than 0.02). Pacemaker follow-up at 3, 6 and 12 months showed persistent bradycardia (60 to 90 beats/min) in 88, 75 and 50% of patients, respectively. The most common pacemaker complication (15%) was lead displacement at time of biopsy. These results suggest that disruption of the SA nodal blood supply may be an important predisposing factor in the development of bradycardias. 
Glassy cell features in adenosquamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix. Histologic, ultrastructural, immunohistochemical, and clinical findings. Glassy cell features (GCF) were identified as composing a predominant pattern (more than 85% of histology) in six cases and a focal pattern (33-85% of histology) in 10 cases of a series of 53 adenocarcinomas (AC) and adenosquamous carcinomas (ADSQ) of the uterine cervix. In three cases examined ultrastructurally, GCFs correlated with many cytoplasmic polyribosomes and abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, but Golgi complexes and tonofilaments were scant and intracytoplasmic lumina were absent. Intracellular mucin was present in the areas showing GCFs of four ADSQs with predominant GCFs and six ADSQs with focal GCFs. Two of three cases examined ultrastructurally showed intracellular electron-dense material that corresponded to mucin secretory material. Immunohistochemical studies of the six ADSQs with predominant GCF cases showed the following pattern of reactivity: monoclonal carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), 2 of 6 cases; polyclonal CEA, 3 of 6; CA 125, 0 of 6; CA 19-9, 0 of 6; placental alkaline phosphatase, 0 of 6; and vimentin, 1 of 6. Focal GCF areas showed monoclonal CEA, 4 of 9 cases; polyclonal CEA, 3 of 9; vimentin, 4 of 9; while CA 125, CA 19-9, and placental alkaline phosphatase were negative in areas of GCFs. One of three patients with ADSQ with predominant GCFs and five of nine patients with ADSQ with focal GCFs with at least 1 year of follow-up were disease free. No association between GCFs (combined focal and predominant) and recurrent disease was present when compared to the other 29 AC and ADSQ patients with follow-up. Recurrent disease in our series of AC and ADSQ was only associated with stage III or IV disease at presentation (P less than 0.001). There was no association with adenosquamous histology, histologic grade, lymphatic invasion, or age. There were insufficient cases of ADSQ with predominant GCFs with follow-up to evaluate fully prognostic significance of this subgroup. Our study suggests that GCFs are part of the spectrum of differentiation in ADSQ of the cervix rather than a distinct histologic type of carcinoma with unique clinical significance. 
Activation of pain fibers to the internal carotid artery intracranially may cause the pain and local signs of reduced sympathetic and enhanced parasympathetic activity in cluster headache. Several clinical and circulatory physiological observations indicate that the internal carotid artery (ICA) with proximal pial and orbital-periorbital branches, as well as external carotid vessels adjacent to the orbital region, are involved in the autonomic symptoms of an attack of cluster headache. Evidence is presented here that an activation of pain fibers innervating the intracranial segment of ICA may cause not only the retroorbital pain of an attack but also, via the mechanical effect of a neurogenic inflammation in the vessel wall, the local symptoms of a sympathetic defect and, via a reflex are to the parasympathetic pathway along the greater superficial petrosal nerve, the local symptoms from glands and vessels of parasympathetic discharge. Dilation of the intracranial ICA due to activation of this parasympathetic pathway may aggravate pain. Possible mechanisms behind such a local pain fiber activation are discussed. 
Use of amiodarone for short-term and adjuvant therapy in young patients. Limited data are available defining the safety of amiodarone for short-term use or as part of combination antiarrhythmic therapy in pediatric patients. Results of amiodarone in 47 young patients for an average treatment duration of 12 months were examined. There were 21 male and 26 female patients (age range of 23 weeks gestation to 29 years). Patients were divided into 4 groups: group 1--electrocardiographic documented ventricular tachycardia (n = 7); group 2--syncope of unknown cause (n = 16); group 3--primary atrial tachycardia (n = 11); and group 4--supraventricular tachycardia (n = 13). Amiodarone was clinically useful in 32 (68%) patients. Amiodarone was considered effective as a sole antiarrhythmic agent in 21 (45%) patients. Treatment was ineffective but was continued in 11 (23%) patients; in 10 of these 11 patients amiodarone was adjuvant to other antiarrhythmic drugs. Amiodarone was considered ineffective and was withdrawn in 15 (32%) patients. No patient required cardiac pacemaker implant during therapy. Torsades de pointes and cardiac arrest occurred in 1 patient each after 9 and 14 days of therapy, respectively. Two patients underwent successful cardiac transplant after 2 and 14 months of amiodarone administration, respectively. Amiodarone was used as short-term treatment (less than 18 months) in 7 infants (age less than 18 months), and after cessation of treatment there was no recurrence of tachycardia for 4 to 24 months. Results of this study confirm reports of successful amiodarone use in pediatric patients with a variety of rhythm disturbances. 
Regression of left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive heart transplant recipients treated with enalapril, furosemide, and verapamil. BACKGROUND. This prospective study was designed to examine whether left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy of the denervated transplanted heart may be reversed by medical therapy and, if so, to investigate the time course of this process and its effect on exercise capacity, myocardial function, and cardiac hemodynamics. METHODS AND RESULTS. Ten hypertensive heart transplant recipients with LV hypertrophy were evaluated before therapy with enalapril plus furosemide alone or combined with verapamil, at initial blood pressure (BP) control and after 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, using 24-hour noninvasive ambulatory BP monitoring, M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography, and supine bicycle ergometry. Average 24-hour systolic and diastolic BP declined from 158 +/- 10 and 104 +/- 7 mm Hg to 129 +/- 9 and 84 +/- 10 mm Hg at initial BP control (p less than 0.005 and p less than 0.025, respectively) and total peripheral resistance from 1,687 +/- 177 to 1,376 +/- 122 dyne.sec.cm-5 (p less than 0.025), remaining normal thereafter. Exercise capacity remained unchanged during the study. LV mass, mass-to-volume ratio, and end-diastolic septal plus posterior wall thickness decreased progressively from 211 +/- 30 g, 2.49 +/- 0.62 g/ml, and 25.7 +/- 2.6 mm to 184 +/- 26 g, 2.22 +/- 0.46 g/ml, and 22.5 +/- 1.9 mm after 3 months (all p less than 0.025) and to 174 +/- 25 g, 2.07 +/- 0.38 g/ml, and 21.5 +/- 1.5 mm after 6 months (all p less than 0.005), remaining unaltered at 9 and 12 months. A correlation was found between the decrease in average 24-hour mean BP and LV mass after 3 months of antihypertensive therapy (r = 0.71, p less than 0.05). Systolic meridional wall stress, LV end-diastolic and stroke volume, ejection fraction, and cardiac output remained unchanged throughout the observation period. CONCLUSIONS. The results indicate that regression of LV hypertrophy is induced by effective antihypertensive therapy in the denervated transplanted heart. The extent of decrease in average 24-hour BP appears to be the main determinant for the extent of reduction in LV mass. LV afterload as characterized by systolic meridional wall stress, LV size and pump function, and physical exercise capacity of the transplant patients are not influenced by the therapeutic regimen chosen in this study. 
Epidemiology of myasthenia gravis in Denmark. A longitudinal and comprehensive population survey. The incidence of myasthenia gravis (MG) was found to be constant in calendar time. The mean annual incidence rate was 4.4 per million population. Age- and sex-specific incidence rates disclosed a bimodal appearance for both sexes, with a peak age at onset located in the early-onset group and another peak for late onset of MG. Early onset of MG appeared 10 years later for male individuals than for female individuals, whereas the peak for late onset of MG was located at the same age for both sexes. It is suggested that the separation between early onset and late onset of MG should be at the age of 50 years for both sexes, rather than at 35 to 40 years as accepted in most studies. The prevalence of MG has increased in time. On January 1, 1988, the point prevalence rate was 77 per million population (female subjects, 96, and male subjects, 57). This reflects an improvement in prognosis despite the fact that life expectancy was found to be significantly lower for MG patients than that of the sex- and age-matched population. The factors causing increased mortality were found to be operative throughout the duration of the disease. Maximum severity of disease was reached within 2 years from onset in 78% of the cases, and more than 50% of all MG-related deaths occurred during the same period. In the course of MG, 70% of all patients experience generalized muscular weakness, and 30% to 40% also suffer from respiratory problems. 
Near-infrared spectroscopy in peripheral vascular disease. Near-infrared spectroscopy has been performed on the calf muscles of 38 subjects, 21 normal controls without vascular disease and 17 patients with peripheral vascular disease. Oxygen consumption was measured in the calf by calculating the rate of conversion of oxyhaemoglobin to deoxyhaemoglobin during a period of tourniquet-induced ischaemia. Postischaemic reoxygenation was also measured. Median oxygen consumption in patients with peripheral vascular disease was 0.10 ml 100 g tissue-1 min-1, while in the control group it was 0.20 ml 100 g tissue-1 min-1 (P less than 0.03, Mann-Whitney U test). The median time taken to reach maximum oxyhaemoglobin levels after ischaemia was 40 s in patients with peripheral vascular disease and 20 s in controls (P less than 0.02). The results indicate that oxygen consumption is reduced in peripheral vascular disease. Near infrared spectroscopy is a non-invasive method for assessing metabolic improvement resulting from surgical or pharmacological treatment. 
Diagnostic value of video-EEG polysomnography. To investigate the diagnostic value of video-EEG polysomnography (VPSG), we reviewed our experience in 122 patients with suspected parasomnias who underwent one or two nights of VPSG. Of 86 patients without known epilepsy, VPSG provided useful diagnostic information for 41 (69%) of those with a history of prominent motor activity during sleep and for 11 (41%) of those with a history of minor motor activity during sleep. Two children and one adult with clinical histories suggestive of sleep terrors had unequivocal partial seizures during VPSG. Of 36 patients with known epilepsy, VPSG was useful diagnostically in 28 (78%). VPSG is superior to standard polysomnography for the evaluation of parasomnias because of the increased capability to identify and localize EEG abnormalities and to correlate behavior with EEG and polysomnography. VPSG may also be a suitable alternative to intensive inpatient monitoring for some patients with known or suspected epilepsy who have frequent undiagnosed nocturnal spells. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysm in chronic thoracic dissection. Report of two cases. Two cases of lower abdominal aortic aneurysm in association with chronic thoracic dissections are reported. These infra-renal aortic aneurysms, superimposed on an abdominal extension of the dissection, always require surgical treatment because of their well known tendency to enlarge and rupture. The authors report their experience and discuss the management of this complication in chronic dissections treated surgically. 
Sequestrin, a CD36 recognition protein on Plasmodium falciparum malaria-infected erythrocytes identified by anti-idiotype antibodies. The CD36 molecule expressed by human endothelial cells is a receptor for the adhesion of erythrocytes infected with the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. A CD36-specific monoclonal antibody, OKM8, inhibits the adhesion of malaria-infected erythrocytes (IRBC) to purified CD36 and cells expressing CD36. Monospecific polyclonal anti-idiotype (anti-Id) antibodies, raised against monoclonal antibody OKM8, expressed determinants molecularly mimicking the CD36 binding domain for the adhesion of IRBC. Purified rabbit anti-Id antibodies reacted with the surface of IRBC by immunofluorescence, directly supported the adhesion of wild-type P. falciparum malaria isolates, and inhibited IRBC cytoadherence to melanoma cells. An approximately 270-kDa protein was immunoprecipitated by the anti-Id antibodies from surface-labeled and metabolically labeled IRBC and was competitively inhibited by soluble CD36. These results support the hypothesis that CD36 is a receptor and the approximately 270-kDa protein, sequestrin, is a complementary ligand involved in the adhesion of IRBC to host-cell endothelium. Sequestrin is a candidate malaria vaccine antigen, and anti-Id antibodies that recognize this molecule may be useful for passive immunotherapy of cerebral and severe P. falciparum malaria. 
Hypothalamic amenorrhea: clinical perspectives, pathophysiology, and management. The development of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea reflects an individual's response to environmental stressors and life-style variables. In this disorder there are no detectable anatomic abnormalities with respect to the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-endometrial axis. Current evidence suggests that the common underlying defect is a decrease in the activity of the hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulse generator. Of the neuroendocrine factors that appear to regulate gonadotropin-releasing hormone activity, the opiate and dopamine neuronal systems have been implicated as factors that are responsible in part for the decreased secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. Because of the functional nature of this disorder, reactivation of the hypothalamic-pituitary unit would be expected to take place in most women after accommodation to environmental stressors or modification in life-style. For women with persistent anovulation, treatment with estrogen-replacement therapy should be offered. In those desiring fertility, ovulation induction with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone would be the most effective modality. 
The office evaluation of infectious diarrhea. Diarrhea is a frequent complaint heard in the office practice of medicine and can represent any of a variety of processes, including several infectious causes. Clues to the infectious processes are reviewed and an approach to their evaluation from history, through physical examination, laboratory evaluation, and initial therapy are discussed. 
Prevalence of risk factors for heart disease in OXCHECK trial: implications for screening in primary care. Imperial Cancer Research Fund OXCHECK Study Group. OBJECTIVE--To describe the outcome of offering health checks systematically to a general practice adult population, in terms of age and sex specific prevalence of risk factors, follow up workload, and selective screening of cholesterol concentration. DESIGN--Descriptive analysis of data obtained by postal questionnaire and by personal interview and clinical examination by a trained nurse. SUBJECTS--2205 patients aged 35-64 who attended for a health check in 1989-90 from an invited random sample of 2777 patients from five urban general practices in Bedfordshire. RESULTS--Overall, almost three quarters of patients (78% of men, 68% of women) needed specific advice or follow up. Smoking, a high fat diet, and being overweight (body mass index greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2) were common characteristics exhibited by 35%, 31%, and 55% respectively of men and 24%, 18%, and 48% of women. The total cholesterol concentration was greater than or equal to 6.5 mmol/l in 37% of patients and greater than or equal to 8 mmol/l in 8%. In terms of workload 13% needed dietary advice only, 15% needed only follow up of hyperlipidaemia or hypertension, and 9% needed advice on smoking only. A further 35% needed follow up for a combination of risk factors. The proportion of patients in whom cholesterol concentration would be measured if a selective screening policy were adopted would vary from 29% to 71%, according to different criteria, but (particularly in men) no combination would be much better than random testing as a means to detect patients with a total cholesterol concentration greater than or equal to 8 mmol/l. CONCLUSIONS--If the entire adult population of a practice is offered health checks systematically the acceptance rate is lower and the follow up workload higher than previously understood. The resource implications depend on the age and sex of patients screened and the selective criteria adopted for cholesterol measurement. Health checks are only the beginning of a successful preventive programme--the challenge is to provide effective intervention and follow up. 
Intracellular gastrin in human gastrointestinal tumor cells. Flow cytometry and immunohistochemical analyses of the human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line MKN45G identified an intracellular peptide recognized by an anti-gastrin-17 (G17) antiserum but not by an anti-cholecystokinin-specific antiserum. Staining was not associated with the parental line MKN45, of which MKN45G is a clonal variant. The MKN45G cell line had elevated in vitro growth in serum-free medium in which the proliferation of MKN45G cells but not MKN45 cells was reduced to 58% of the control value by treatment with a rabbit anti-G17 antiserum. This inhibition of proliferation was reversed by preabsorbing the antiserum with excess G17. Disaggregated primary human gastric and colorectal tumors were screened for gastrin immunoreactivity by flow cytometry, and 6 of 28 colorectal and 8 of 22 gastric tumors had greater than 20% positively staining cells. 
Role of arteriography in the preoperative evaluation of carotid artery disease. This retrospective study was undertaken to determine the role of arteriography in the treatment of patients being considered for carotid endarterectomy. The results of preoperative classification of disease severity by duplex ultrasound and arteriography were compared, and the impact of arteriography on patient management was ascertained. We reviewed the records of 83 patients who had carotid surgery planned on the basis of their clinical history and duplex scan results and who then underwent arteriography. Duplex scan results agreed with the classification of stenosis by arteriography in 87% of evaluated sides and were within one category in 98%. In 87% of the cases reviewed, the clinical presentation and duplex scan findings were sufficient for appropriate patient management. In the instances that arteriography was useful (13%), the need for arteriography was evident when the duplex scan (1) was technically inadequate or equivocal; (2) showed an unusual distribution of disease, atypical anatomy, or a recurrent lesion; or (3) demonstrated an internal carotid artery with diameter-reducing stenosis of less than 50% in a patient with hemispheric neurologic symptoms despite antiplatelet therapy. 
Intraocular tissue plasminogen activator in a rabbit model of traumatic hyphema. Tissue plasminogen activator was used to evaluate the clearance of traumatic hyphema in a rabbit model. A neodymium-YAG laser was used to disrupt iris vessels, creating a traumatic hyphema. Tissue plasminogen activator (1800 IU/0.1 mL) was injected into the anterior chamber 24 hours after creation of the hyphema. Two control groups (one receiving balanced salt solution and one receiving no treatment) were used for comparison. A multivariate analysis of covariance indicated that the greatest difference in hyphema clearance between the groups occurred at days 3, 4, and 5. Five days after tissue plasminogen activator treatment, the mean size of the clot remaining in the anterior chamber was 27% of that of the original hyphema. In control eyes, almost 60% of the original clot remained at day 5. Treatment of animals with tissue plasminogen activator doses of 5000 IU and 10,000 IU produced a substantial increase in repeated bleeding episodes in our rabbit model. We concluded that although the use of tissue plasminogen activator in our rabbit model of traumatic hyphema significantly improved clearance of blood from the anterior chamber, the remaining clot was of such size that the clinical benefit was questionable. 
Diagnosis and treatment of cranial neuralgias. Both medical and surgical therapies may be used in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia and glossopharyngeal neuralgia. Ordinarily, the treatment is medical; however, if a response to drugs is not forthcoming, or if the patient becomes toxic while taking medications or refuses to abide by an appropriate medical program, then surgical consultation should be obtained and the appropriate operation performed. The form and type of neurosurgical procedure will probably depend to a considerable extent on the expertise of the neurosurgeon and his training. Generally, in the elderly, the simplest procedure should be attempted first. It may be necessary to employ both medical and surgical procedures in the individual patient. The medical drug of first choice is carbamazepine. Atypical facial neuralgia is a general term used to cover a variety of head and face pains that are poorly defined and that may not deserve separate clinical status. The pathogenesis of the atypical facial neuralgias is uncertain, and multiple causation seems likely. Search for local inflammatory pathology, neoplasms, vasomotor phenomena, and depressive symptoms is indicated. Treatment should be guided by the findings. 
Emergency department echocardiography in the diagnosis and therapy of cardiac tamponade. A 44-year-old male presented to the emergency department in shock with jugular venous distension and upper chest cyanosis. Superior vena cava syndrome was ruled out by computed tomography (CT scan). However, a large pericardial effusion was found on CT scan and confirmed by sonography. Pericardial tamponade was diagnosed by emergency physicians and sonography-guided pericardiocentesis was performed with marked improvement in symptomatology. 
Interval report of a phase I-II study utilizing multiple modalities in the treatment of invasive bladder cancer. A bladder-sparing trial. Clinicians at the Massachusetts General Hospital have used two cycles of methotrexate, cisplatin, and vinblastine (MCV) before radiotherapy and cisplatin in 53 patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Eleven patients did not complete the protocol, but overall, the toxicity was not formidable. Of the total patients accessioned, 34 are alive. Of the 34 patients in the series who completed the full treatment protocol, the estimated survival rate at 54 months is 77%. This interim analysis suggests that the treatment is achieving at least limited success in saving lives and bladders. 
Nosocomial pneumonia in the critically ill: product of aspiration or translocation? OBJECTIVE: To examine the possibility that nosocomial pneumonias might be caused by the translocation of enteric bacteria and their toxins. DESIGN: Prospectively collected previous database was examined by logistic regression analysis. SETTING: University medical center. PATIENTS: Sixty-two ICU patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The best stand-alone predictors for nosocomial pneumonia were bleeding from stress ulceration (p less than .001), the severity of illness present (p less than .001), and intramucosal acidosis in the stomach (p = .023), a metabolic indication of mucosal ischemia. Mechanical ventilation (p = .038) and the administration of antacids/cimetidine (p = .054) were also of stand-alone predictive value, but did not significantly improve the best predictive model for nosocomial pneumonia derived from the severity of illness present and the intramucosal pH in the stomach. CONCLUSIONS: The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that ischemic mucosal injury and its associated translocation of enteric bacteria and toxins might be more important in the pathogenesis of nosocomial pneumonia in the critically ill than the aspiration of contaminated nasopharyngeal secretions. 
Unsuspected uveal melanoma diagnosed after cataract extraction. Four cases of unsuspected uveal melanoma diagnosed after cataract extraction were found in a review of the records of enucleation specimens processed at our centre between 1974 and 1988. Similarities among the four cases included disparity in loss of visual acuity, unilateral angle-closure glaucoma, asymmetric cataract formation, inability to view the fundus and rapid flattening of the anterior chamber, with difficult closure at the time of surgery. Uveal melanoma should be suspected in any cataract patient presenting with one or more of these atypical clinical findings, and complete investigation, including A-scan and B-scan ultrasonography, is indicated. 
Evolving experience with thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair at a single institution. Fifty-seven patients underwent repair of atherosclerotic thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms between 1978 and 1990. Five patients had urgent surgery for rupture. The 30-day operative mortality rate for the entire group was 18% (10 patients). Before July 1987, 19 patients (group 1) were operated on by use of a technique previously described. In these earlier patients the peritoneum was routinely entered, the diaphragm was divided radially, and no heparin was given. Among patients in group 1 there was a 30-day operative mortality rate of 42% (8 patients), and morbidity included myocardial infarction 4 (21%), respiratory failure 9 (47%), renal failure 12 (63%), bleeding requiring reoperation 4 (21%), and intestinal ischemia 3 (16%). Since July 1987 a standardized approach to all elective thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms has been used in 38 patients (group 2). This method uses a left thoracoabdominal incision, circumferential division of the hemidiaphragm, retronephric totally extraperitoneal aortic exposure, single lung anesthesia, full heparinization, the graft inclusion technique, and liberal use of visceral endarterectomy. Patients in group 2 sustained a 30-day operative mortality rate of 5% (2 patients) and morbidity included myocardial infarction 2 (5%), respiratory failure 10 (26%), renal failure 11 (29%), bleeding requiring reoperation 1 (3%), paraplegia 6 (16%), and paraparesis 4 (11%). Modern surgery for repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm results in acceptably low operative mortality rates. Spinal cord ischemia remains an unresolved source of morbidity. 
Coronary restenosis: what have we learned from angiography? Coronary restenosis remains a major problem for interventional cardiology not only by virtue of its frequency, but also because of the current inability to prevent it. Symptomatic status and non-invasive evaluation have been used to study restenosis, but both lack specificity and sensitivity, particularly in patients with multivessel disease. Angiography remains the reference standard. Several arbitrary definitions have been used, some related to visual estimates of coronary stenosis and others to quantitative angiographic techniques. In another approach, linear modeling is used to assess minimal luminal diameter of lesions on restudy. Although angiographic studies have been essential in the study of restenosis, questions concerning the underlying mechanism and pathophysiology remain. The development of animal models that closely resemble human restenosis should allow evaluation of pathophysiologic mechanisms and development of new strategies to prevent the problem. 
Monoclonality in B cell lymphoma detected in paraffin wax embedded sections using the polymerase chain reaction. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to develop a simple technique for detecting monoclonality at the DNA level in B lymphocyte populations in formalin fixed, paraffin wax embedded material. Sections were dewaxed and dehydrated, and the DNA was extracted by boiling in water for 45 minutes. A semi-nested PCR was performed to amplify the V-D-J region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene. The product was electrophoresed and viewed under ultraviolet light after ethidium bromide staining. Specimens from 26 B cell lymphomas produced a monoclonal band in 24 cases and no amplification in two cases; monoclonality was specific for this disorder. Specimens from seven T cell lymphomas produced no amplification; specimens from nine reactive nodes produced a broad smear of polyclonal material; and specimens from 12 cases of carcinoma produced either no amplification or polyclonal material. As detection of monoclonality is strongly suggestive of neoplastic disease, this technique is likely to be of value in routine diagnosis, because of its speed, simplicity, and applicability to fixed, embedded material. 
Infection of the central nervous system due to Acanthamoeba. It is well established that Acanthamoeba castellanii, Acanthamoeba culbertsoni, Acanthamoeba polyphaga, and probably other species of free-living amebas are virulent opportunists capable of producing disease in humans and animals. Human infections involving brain, eyes, skin, and lungs have been reported from all continents. Central nervous system (CNS) infection due to Acanthamoeba species usually occurs in chronically ill, debilitated individuals, some of them receiving immunosuppressive therapy or taking broad-spectrum antibiotics. The disease runs a protracted, insidious clinical course and is known as granulomatous amebic encephalitis. Histopathologically, Acanthamoeba species may produce a multifocal, chronic, or subacute granulomatous encephalitis, with trophozoites and cysts present in CNS lesions. The portal of entry of the amebas into the CNS is probably the respiratory tract or a skin lesion, and the organisms reach the CNS by hematogenous spread. As of 1 January 1989, about 50 cases of granulomatous amebic encephalitis had been reported worldwide, 27 in the United States alone. 
Phase II trial of interferon gamma and monoclonal antibody 17-1A in pancreatic cancer: biologic and clinical effects. Thirty patients with advanced measurable pancreatic adenocarcinoma were entered onto a phase II trial with recombinant interferon gamma (Biogen, Cambridge, MA; 10(6) U/m2 daily for 4 days) and monoclonal antibody (Mab) 17-1A (Centocor, Malvern, PA; 150 mg in autologous leukocytes on days 2, 3, and 4 following interferon infusion). The effect of a single interferon gamma treatment on natural and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), Fc receptor occupancy by antibody, and human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR) expression on monocytes and lymphocytes was also studied. Toxicity was modest and generally limited to grade I to II fever, nausea and vomiting, and hepatotoxicity. Five patients were considered to be nonassessable for response. Of the 25 assessable patients, one objective response (complete remission for a duration of 4 months) was observed. Stable disease for 2 months or greater was noted in nine patients. The median survival for the group was 5 months. Analysis of cytotoxicity data obtained prior to treatment showed reduced natural cytotoxic activity in these patients compared with normal volunteers. A significant improvement in natural cytotoxic activity to normal levels occurred within 24 hours following the interferon gamma infusion. This was also associated with augmented antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Although HLA-DR expression was not increased on either monocytes or lymphocytes, an increased capacity of both lymphocytes and monocytes to bind Mab 17-1A was observed. In all in vitro assays of ADCC, the presence of antibody excess was associated with improved cytolytic activity. In spite of the favorable modulation of cytolytic activity and improved ability of effector cells to bind Mab, we failed to demonstrated adequate clinical efficacy in the treatment of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma using this dose and schedule of interferon gamma and Mab 17-1A. Future trials will focus on alternate schedules of Mab 17-1A with the hope of improving tumor antigen saturation and circulating levels of infused antibody. 
Temporalis myofascial flap for maxillofacial reconstruction. To date, the temporalis myofascial flap has been used only to a limited extent for reconstruction in the maxillofacial region. Experience gained with 26 temporalis flaps in reconstruction of tissue defects in the periorbital region, skull base, maxilla, and oral cavity is presented. Only one patient developed total necrosis of the flap; significant necrosis did not occur in any other patient. The anatomy of the flap and surgical technique are briefly presented. 
Life-threatening angioedema. Angioedema is a well-recognized edema involving the deeper layers of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and mucosa. From July 1986 to July 1989 the authors have observed and treated 10 patients admitted to the Medical College of Virginia (MCV) Hospitals in Richmond, Virginia, with life-threatening angioedema as a complication of enalapril or captopril ingestion. Both drugs are angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors prescribed for antihypertensive activity and the ability to improve symptoms in patients with congestive heart failure. We describe the clinical symptoms, diagnosis, and management of these patients, as well as reasons for each occurrence. Sporadic reports of angioedema secondary to ACE inhibitor therapy have appeared in the literature. This represents the first time a significant series of patients from the same institution have encountered this complication over a short period of time, suggesting that the complication may be much more common than has been thought. 
Annular atrophic lichen planus. We describe a case of generalized, asymptomatic, chronic annular lichen planus. The centers of the large annular lesions were atrophic and had lost their elasticity. Histologic examination revealed an absence of elastic fiber in the center. Electron microscopy revealed fragmented elastic fibers. Examination of early lesions showed that elastolysis had already begun in the heavy cellular infiltration. We conclude that the annular configuration resulted from the elastolytic activity of the inflammatory cells with the formation of foci of localized acquired cutis laxa. 
Effect of inspired oxygen concentration on the incidence of desaturation in patients undergoing total hip replacement. The effect of inspired oxygen concentration on the incidence of desaturation was studied in two groups of patients (n = 32 and 31) during total hip replacement. During insertion of acrylic bone cement, those patients receiving an inspired fractional oxygen concentration (FIO2) of 0.5 had less desaturation (3%) than those receiving an FIO2 of 0.33 (34%). 
Rearrangement of the T-cell receptor delta chain gene in T-cell lymphomas with a mature phenotype. The configuration of the T-cell receptor (TCR) delta chain gene was assessed using restriction fragment analysis and the Southern blot technique in 39 T-cell lymphomas with a mature immunophenotype. The TCR delta gene was rearranged in four lymphomas although the gamma/delta TCR was not expressed in two cases studied. The TCR delta gene was the only TCR gene rearranged in two cases. Each lymphoma with TCR delta gene rearrangement had an aberrant T-cell immunophenotype and three cases were of the large cell anaplastic type. The TCR delta gene was deleted in 22 cases and was in the germline configuration in 13 lymphomas. Deletion of the TCR delta gene was characteristic of mycosis fungoides, adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (human T cell leukemia-lymphoma virus positive), and Lennert's lymphoma, and was not identified in angiocentric lymphomas. In eight cases with TCR delta deletion, however, a large number of polyclonal (presumably reactive) T cells were present and, in these lymphomas, the authors could not determine if TCR delta gene deletion occurred in the polyclonal T cells, the neoplastic cells, or both cell populations. The authors conclude that the TCR delta gene is usually deleted in mature T-cell lymphomas, as would be expected in alpha/beta TCR T cells. However, TCR delta gene rearrangement is detectable in approximately 10% of cases. Analysis of this locus may be useful diagnostically, as it occasionally may be the only molecular marker of clonality in mature T-cell lymphomas T-cell receptor delta chain gene rearrangement also is found most often in lymphomas of the large cell anaplastic type. 
Disposition of high-dose methotrexate in an obese cancer patient. The disposition of many drugs in obesity is altered, although little is known of the effect of obesity on the pharmacokinetics of anti-cancer drugs. In this report the authors describe the pharmacokinetics of high-dose methotrexate in an obese woman (184% ideal body weight) with osteosarcoma. For this patient, both the volume of distribution at steady-state (0.398 l/kg) and systemic clearance (0.0956 l/h/kg) of methotrexate were increased compared with values observed in adult patients with osteosarcoma. The terminal elimination half-life (9.29 hours) of methotrexate was similar to other reported values in adult patients, thus indicating that increases in methotrexate volume of distribution and clearance may offset each other in obesity. Based on the experience gained from this patient, the authors suggest that renal function and methotrexate serum concentrations should be monitored in obese patients receiving high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue. 
The clinical utility of maternal body mass index in pregnancy. To describe maternal body mass index and to compare the use of maternal weight and body mass index for risk assessment at the initial prenatal visit, 6270 gravid women who were consecutively delivered of infants were studied. Body mass index increased with advancing maternal age, parity, and advancing gestational age and was significantly greater in black women than in nonblack women. Risks for the development of adverse outcome associated with maternal obesity, including development of gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, fetal macrosomia, and shoulder dystocia, were comparably predicted by either maternal weight or body mass index greater than 90th percentile. Maternal weight was as predictive of preeclampsia, macrosomia, and shoulder dystocia as was body mass index when these factors were analyzed as continuous variables, whereas increasing body mass index was more predictive of gestational diabetes. The prediction of factors associated with low maternal weights, small-for-gestational-age birth, prematurity, low birth weight, and perinatal death was equivalent for maternal weight and body mass index that was less than 10th percentile. This study indicates that in the initial risk assessment of outcomes related to maternal weight, the calculation of maternal body mass index offers no advantage over simply weighing the patient. This finding contrasts with results in nonpregnant women. 
Glutethimide treatment of disabling action tremor in patients with multiple sclerosis and traumatic brain injury. Glutethimide has been used to control essential tremor. Its efficacy in the treatment of disabling cerebellar and rubral tremor was assessed in an open study of six patients with multiple sclerosis and two patients with traumatic brain injury. Functional and quantitative tremor severity was assessed before treatment and 7 to 14 days after a stable dose was achieved. Six of eight patients exhibited visible functional benefit from treatment with glutethimide; abstract testing results correlated well with functional status in most cases. Four patients chose to continue to receive medication. Controlled trials of glutethimide to compare its efficacy with that of other medications used in the treatment of action tremor are indicated. 
Aging, autonomic function, and the perception of angina. OBJECTIVE--To determine the effects of age and autonomic function on the perception of angina. DESIGN--Prospective evaluation of the relations between anginal perceptual threshold, autonomic function, and systolic blood pressure in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease. Statistical analysis was by non-parametric techniques. SETTING--Cardiology departments of a district general hospital and a post-graduate teaching centre. SUBJECTS--82 non-diabetic men with typical exertional angina and coronary artery disease confirmed by arteriography (n = 64) or a history of Q wave infarction (n = 18). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Age, anginal perceptual threshold, autonomic function, and blood pressure. Anginal perceptual threshold was defined as the time from onset of 0.1 mV ST depression to the onset of angina during treadmill stress testing. Autonomic function was measured as the ratio of peak heart rate during the Valsalva manoeuvre to the minimum rate after release. RESULTS--Anginal perceptual threshold showed a weak but significant correlation with age, with older patients tending to have a longer interval between the onset of ST depression and the onset of angina. Comparison of patients in the upper and lower quartile age ranges showed a difference of 50 seconds between median threshold measurements. Blood pressure and heart rate responses to the Valsalva manoeuvre also correlated with age, but neither variable correlated with the anginal perceptual threshold. CONCLUSIONS--In non-diabetic men with coronary artery disease the perception of angina tends to deteriorate with advancing age. The mechanism is unclear but is not attributable solely to alterations in blood pressure or autonomic function. 
Colitis due to Histoplasma capsulatum in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. We present a case of colonic histoplasmosis in a young HIV antibody-positive homosexual male who presented with acute diarrhea. The diagnosis was made by flexible sigmoidoscopy with biopsy which revealed organisms morphologically consistent with Histoplasma capsulatum, and was later confirmed by fungal culture of the biopsy specimens. At colonoscopy, skip areas with plaques, ulcers, and a pseudopolyp were observed. The colitis resolved endoscopically after a 6-wk course of intravenous amphotericin B, and the patient has had no recurrence of symptoms while on maintenance therapy with amphotericin B. However, the organisms continue to be noted on biopsies of normal-appearing areas in the rectum and sigmoid 5 months after diagnosis. Colonic involvement with H. capsulatum, an organism endemic to the Midwest, may be seen more frequently as the total number of cases of HIV-infected individuals increases in this region. 
A critical look at scheduled relaparotomy for secondary bacterial peritonitis. Scheduled relaparotomy is attracting interest as a means of treating intra-abdominal sepsis. It is the subject of several studies to evaluate its role in the management of peritoneal infection. However, indications for this procedure are not clear and current knowledge does not allow for adequate scientific evaluation. Many trials lack control groups and historical control groups cannot be evaluated on criteria, such as illness severity, concomitant health problems or even surgical technique. Indicators of outcome are generally described in insufficient detail; only death or survival are reported and important morbidity and resource utilization data are not included. A randomized, prospective, multicenter clinical trial using standardized techniques is necessary to determine the usefulness of scheduled relaparotomy performed on different patients. 
Acute pulpal-alveolar cellulitis syndrome. V. Apical closure of immature teeth by infection control: the importance of an endodontic seal with therapeutic factors. Part 2. During orthodontic treatment to promote eruption of maxillary and mandibular second bicuspids, a young male patient had a severe endodontic cellulitis of a mandibular bicuspid. Apexogenesis and resolution of the periapical lesion was achieved by infection control with nonspecific intracanal medication without calcium hydroxide, as stated by Das. A mild periodontal cellulitis occurred shortly thereafter and rapidly resolved. A second endodontic cellulitis, after apexogenesis without an endodontic seal, occurred shortly after completion of orthodontic treatment. This also quickly resolved, and the canal was effectively sealed. This case indicates the importance of an effective endodontic seal shortly after apexogenesis is induced by infection control. This report and others on the subject indicate that apexogenesis of nonvital permanent immature teeth by infection control is a predictable endodontic treatment procedure. 
Progress in cancer. Definite progress has been made against cancer since the National Cancer Act was passed in 1971. Physicians are giving increased attention to cancer prevention. The exciting changes in molecular biology provide increased knowledge about basic mechanisms in tumor growth and metastases. Detailed discussions of two common solid cancers--breast and colorectal--attest to continuing advances in cancer diagnosis and treatment. All of these augur well for further progress in oncology. Continued research, basic and clinical, is mandatory. 
Characterization of refractory period extension by transcardiac shock. BACKGROUND. To better understand the refractory period extension (RPE) produced by transcardiac shocks and its possible role in defibrillation, we measured RPE under various experimental conditions. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using ventricular pacing in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs, we characterized RPE in relation to the anatomic site of pacing, the local voltage gradient (LVG) produced by the shocks at the pacing site, and the pacing rate and pacing current used to make the measurements. We also determined if RPE persisted into the next refractory period after the shock and measured RPE at the end of 30-second episodes of acute ischemia to the pacing site, which were caused by occluding the left anterior descending artery. Each anatomic site tested showed RPE, which increased sharply with increasing LVG at lower levels but less sharply at higher LVG. The RPE versus LVG was approximated with an exponential curve that had an exponential constant of about 5-6 V/cm. At faster pacing rates, RPE occurred earlier in the refractory period but was unchanged when expressed as a percent increase of refractory period. RPE did not vary with the pacing current and was present only in the refractory period during which the shock was delivered. The RPE was not significantly altered by acute ischemia. These results show that transcardiac shocks selectively extend the refractory period of tissue proportional to the LVG and the timing of the shock in the refractory period. They are consistent with the concept that RPE prevents depolarization from tissue directly excited by a shock from propagating to tissue that was refractory to that same shock. CONCLUSIONS. The insensitivity of RPE to short ischemic episodes and the presence of RPE at increased activation rates suggest that RPE might exist under conditions of fibrillation and be a major determinant of the success or failure of defibrillation. 
A prospective study of maturity-onset diabetes mellitus and risk of coronary heart disease and stroke in women. We examined the relationship of maturity-onset clinical diabetes mellitus with the subsequent incidence of coronary heart disease, stroke, total cardiovascular mortality, and all-cause mortality in a cohort of 116,177 US women who were 30 to 55 years of age and free of known coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer in 1976. During 8 years of follow-up (889 255 person-years), we identified 338 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 111 coronary deaths, 259 strokes, 238 cardiovascular deaths, and 1349 deaths from all causes. Diabetes was associated with a markedly increased risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction and fatal coronary heart disease (age-adjusted relative risk [RR] = 6.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 5.3 to 8.4), ischemic stroke (RR = 5.4; 95% CI, 3.3 to 9.0), total cardiovascular mortality (RR = 6.3; 95% CI, 4.6 to 8.6), and all-cause mortality (RR = 3.0; 95% CI, 2.5 to 3.7). A major independent effect of diabetes persisted in multivariate analyses after simultaneous control for other known coronary risk factors (for these end points, RR [95% CI] = 3.1 [2.3 to 4.2], 3.0 [1.6 to 5.7], 3.0 [1.9 to 4.8], and 1.9 [1.4 to 2.4], respectively). The absolute excess coronary risk due to diabetes was greater in the presence of other risk factors, including cigarette smoking, hypertension, and obesity. These prospective data indicate that maturity-onset clinical diabetes is a strong determinant of coronary heart disease, ischemic stroke, and cardiovascular mortality among middle-aged women. The adverse effect of diabetes is amplified in the presence of other cardiovascular risk factors, many of which are modifiable. 
Acute effects of pulsatile levodopa administration on central dopamine pharmacodynamics. Inconsistencies in the response to individual levodopa doses occur in most patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate the possible development of acute tachyphylaxis, we evaluated the effects of repeated injections of intravenous levodopa in 10 PD patients with motor fluctuations by administering, during a single day, a previously determined optimal levodopa dose repeatedly each time motor function returned to baseline. Peak antiparkinsonian response was lower by 20%, and peak plasma levodopa levels lower by 35% following the first dose compared with all subsequent doses. Neither peak dyskinesia scores nor the duration of motor response changed significantly with successive levodopa doses. These data suggest that pulsatile levodopa administration does not acutely alter dopamine receptor responsiveness, and that other pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic factors contribute to the dose-to-dose variability in response to levodopa. 
The Edmonton injector: a simple device for patient-controlled subcutaneous analgesia. In a prospective open study we tested the Edmonton injector (EI), a device designed by our group for subcutaneous injection of narcotics. In 25 patients, the EI was used for patient-controlled analgesia (PCA); mean duration of treatment was 28 +/- 10 days. Mean equivalent daily dose of morphine was 160 +/- 85 mg. All patients found the EI safe and simple to operate. The main reason for discontinuation was death (10 cases) or return to oral narcotics (8 cases). In 20 patients who were admitted to the hospital and were too ill to learn PCA, the EI was used for regular s.c. administration by nurses. Narcotics were administered every 4 h and extra doses were administered on a 'PRN' basis. Waiting time for a 'PRN' dose in 8 patients before starting the EI was 18 +/- 7 min; after the EI was started, it was 3 +/- 4 min (P less than 0.01). We conclude that the EI is safe, effective and inexpensive, and that it will be particularly useful in smaller hospitals and developing countries. 
Kinetics of D-xylose absorption in patients with human immunodeficiency virus enteropathy. D-Xylose absorption was studied in 12 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or advanced AIDS-related complex who had had diarrhea for more than 8 weeks, averaged an 11% (range, 3% to 21%) body weight loss during the previous 6 months, and had had negative stool examinations for enteric pathogens. Patients were evaluated by duodenal aspiration and biopsy and received both 25 gm oral and 10 gm intravenous doses of D-xylose. Kinetic analysis of D-xylose absorption was characterized by an absorption rate constant (ka) and a rate constant (ko) reflecting nonabsorptive loss. Extent of D-xylose absorption averaged 18.4% +/- 9.3% (+/- SD) in the 12 patients (normal greater than 60%). Percentage of weight loss during the previous 6 months was negatively correlated with ka (r = -0.69; p = 0.018) in the 11 patients in whom this parameter was reduced but was not correlated with either ko or extent of D-xylose absorption. In these patients with human immunodeficiency virus enteropathy, ka was reduced out of proportion to the minor histologic changes present in the duodenal biopsy specimens. 
Strawberry hemangioma of infancy: early definitive treatment with an argon laser. This report documents the successful treatment of a hemangioma (strawberry hemangioma) at 5 weeks of age with the argon laser. The natural course of strawberry hemangioma of infancy is well known. It begins as a very small spot and develops very rapidly within the first few weeks of life. Many grow to a very large size and produce significant morbidity. It is logical to assume that if these were ablated early, the life cycle could be aborted. The patient of this case study developed two spots that appeared to be typical evolving hemangiomas. One was treated and disappeared. The other was not treated and evolved into a typical strawberry hemangioma that eventually involuted. This would indicate that early treatment holds some promise. 
Cytomegalovirus ileitis presenting as massive rectal bleeding in infancy. Two Zambian infants presented with massive rectal bleeding caused by cytomegalovirus ileitis. The first was seropositive for HIV and the second seronegative, though her mother was seropositive. Both infants died. 
Occult metastatic neck disease: detection with US and US-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology. The authors performed a prospective study of the value of ultrasonography (US) and US-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) for assessment of N0 lesions in the neck. Preoperative US was performed in 107 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, who underwent 132 elective neck dissections. During the US examination of the last 54 patients, who underwent 70 elective neck dissections, US-guided FNAC was performed. US alone was found to be an unreliable method for detecting occult lymph node metastasis; the accuracy never exceeded 70% (93 of 132), with a sensitivity of 60% (32 of 53) and a specificity of 77% (61 of 79). In contrast, US-guided FNAC had an accuracy of 89% (62 of 70), a sensitivity of 76% (25 of 33), and a specificity of 100% (37 of 37). Because of the high sensitivity and specificity of US-guided FNAC for the assessment of the N0 neck, this modality may play an important role in directing treatment of these patients in the future. 
Electrocardiographic findings in a patient with pure septal infarction. The electrocardiogram in a 65 year old man in whom pure septal infarction had been produced by occlusion of the septal branch during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty showed that this had led to the disappearance of septal Q waves and reciprocal ST segment depression in the inferior leads. 
Acute, subacute, and chronic myocardial infarction: quantitative analysis of gadolinium-enhanced MR images. The value of gadolinium enhancement to enable detection of infarcted myocardium at T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was assessed in 84 patients after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Five healthy subjects served as controls. All patients underwent MR imaging before and 20 minutes after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Contrast enhancement of normal myocardium varied 7% +/- 4 after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Mean intensity ratio after gadolinium enhancement in group 1 (imaging less than 1 week after AMI), group 2 (imaging 1-3 weeks after AMI), and group 3 (imaging 3-6 weeks after AMI) was significantly higher than before gadolinium enhancement. In group 4 (imaging more than 6 weeks after AMI), no significant difference was observed. After gadolinium enhancement, the intensity ratio was abnormally increased in 82% of the MR examinations in group 1, in 62% of group 2, in 58% of group 3, and in 12% of group 4. Gadolinium enhancement improved visualization of myocardial infarction at MR imaging up to 6 weeks after onset of symptoms and had a maximal effect within 1 week after AMI. 
Analyses of 200 lymphadenectomies in patients with penile carcinoma. From 1972 to 1987, 200 consecutive lymphadenectomies were performed in 112 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis. A Gibson incision provided exposure of the iliac and inguinal lymph nodes with a low morbidity rate (5% flap necrosis, 15% wound infection, 16% lymphedema and 9% lymphocele). The controversy surrounding the necessity of iliac lymphadenectomy is discussed, since 305 iliac lymph nodes examined did not have metastatic invasion. 
Relationship between the onset of dysmenorrhea and histologic findings in adenomyosis. An attempt was made to evaluate the relationship between histologic findings of adenomyosis and onset of dysmenorrhea. Thirty-four cases of histologically diagnosed adenomyosis were investigated in this study. One large sample cut along the longitudinal axis was made and examined to evaluate the histologic parameters and CA 125 levels. Dysmenorrhea was classified into grade I (absent or mild) and grade II (severe). Localization of adenomyosis was divided into type I, adenomyosis continuous from the surface endometrium (29 cases), and type II, adenomyosis present on the serous side of the uterus and not continuous from the surface endometrium (five cases). We made type I adenomyosis, which included 13 cases of grade I and 16 cases of grade II, the focus of our investigation. The parameters that correlated with dysmenorrhea were the number of islands of adenomyosis and glands, distance of invasion, relative rate of invasion, and CA 125 levels. The differences between grades I and II were apparent in the frequency distribution tables, with dysmenorrhea occurring at invasion rates of 80% and greater. 
Immunohistochemical detection of renal carbonic anhydrase of patients with recurrent urolithiasis. In renal exploratory excisions the isoenzyme C of the carbonic anhydrase was detected in 51 operative treated patients with recurrent urolithiasis and in 6 patients with ren mobilis or stenosis of the ureteral pelvic junction by using the immunohistochemical PAP-method. In the distal tubules and collecting ducts there is an alternating occurrence of cells with small and those with strong reactivity. This correlates with the distribution of mean or principal (P-, small reaction) and intercalated (I-, strong reaction) cells. The number of carbonic anhydrase rich cells and the degree of their cytoplasmic reaction to this enzyme seem to correlate with the ability of the urine to acidify. The patients were divided into four groups according to the mean urine pH estimated for a period of two weeks. The third group with predominantly acid urine (pH less than 5.8) showed a significantly increased number of carbonic anhydrase rich cells (mean = 63% +/- 6, n = 18) as compared to the first group (controls) without urolithiasis and normal urine (pH 5.8-6.8, mean = 46% +/- 8, n = 6) or the second group with urolithiasis and normal urine (pH 5.8-6.8, mean = 46% +/- 8, n = 28). The fourth group with predominant alkaline urine (pH greater than 6.8) showed a significantly decreased number of intercalated cells (mean = 42% +/- 16, n = 5) in comparison to the third group. Indeed, the difference with the control group is not significant but the cytoplasmic reaction of I-cells decreases distinctly in comparison to all other groups. 
Acute traumatic midbrain hemorrhage: experimental and clinical observations with CT. Traumatic brain stem hemorrhage (TBH) after blunt head impact is an uncommon injury and has historically been associated with high mortality. Retrospective clinical review identified 64 patients with TBH admitted during a 5-year period. Complete imaging and clinical records for 45 of these patients demonstrated that TBH could be categorized into three groups. The most frequent site of hemorrhage, in 31 (69%) of 45 patients (group 1), was the midline rostral anterior brain stem, posterior to the interpeduncular cistern, and this injury was associated with a 71% survival rate. This pattern was also associated with a predominantly anterior site of head and/or face impact. Eight (18%) patients (group 2) had miscellaneous foci of acute brain stem hemorrhage with seven (88%) surviving. Six (13%) patients (group 3) had brain stem hemorrhage associated with transtentorial herniation and brain stem compression, with 100% mortality. Experimental findings in a canine model and clinical results indicate that the anterior rostral midbrain is a common site of TBH and appears to arise from sudden craniocaudal displacement of the brain at impact. Survival is unexpected high with this location of traumatic midbrain hemorrhage. 
Intrinsic vasculature of the labyrinthine segment of the facial nerve--implications for site of lesion in Bell's palsy. Recent studies of the intrinsic vasculature of the cat facial nerve have demonstrated relatively poor blood supply to the labyrinthine segment. In this study, the intrinsic vasculature of the human facial nerve was systematically evaluated in 25 temporal bones and three fresh cadaver nerves. Cross-sectional vessel counts were obtained for the labyrinthine, tympanic, and mastoid segments. Capillary densities for each segment were derived from these data. The labyrinthine segment of the human facial nerve, like that in the cat, contains fewer and smaller intrinsic blood vessels than do the mastoid and tympanic segments. This may indicate that the labyrinthine segment of the facial nerve may be more vulnerable to ischemic damage. In conjunction with the previously demonstrated narrowness of the labyrinthine fallopian canal, these findings support the contention that the labyrinthine segment is a likely site of lesion in Bell's palsy. 
Thallium-201 scintigraphy after intravenous infusion of adenosine compared with exercise thallium testing in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease Adenosine is an endogenously produced compound that has significant effects as a coronary and systemic vasodilator. Previous studies suggest that intravenous infusion of adenosine, coupled with thallium-201 scintigraphy, may have specific value as a noninvasive means of evaluating coronary artery disease. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic value of adenosine thallium testing with that of standard exercise thallium testing. One hundred subjects were studied with exercise thallium imaging and thallium imaging after adenosine infusion, including 47 with angiographically proved coronary artery disease and 53 control subjects. The overall sensitivity of the thallium procedures was 81% for the exercise study and 83% for the adenosine study (p = NS); the specificity was 74% for the exercise study and 75% for the adenosine study (p = NS). The diagnostic accuracy of the exercise study was 77% and that of the adenosine study was 79%. Ninety-four percent of subjects had an adverse effect due to the adenosine infusion; however, most of these effects were mild and well tolerated. All adverse effects abated within 30 to 45 s of the termination of the study, consistent with the very brief half-life of the agent. Thus, thallium-201 scintigraphy after intravenous infusion of adenosine has a diagnostic value similar to that of exercise thallium testing for evaluation of coronary artery disease. Adenosine thallium testing may be particularly useful in evaluating patients unable to perform treadmill exercise testing. 
Retroperitoneal fibrosis. Retroperitoneal fibrosis is idiopathic in two thirds of cases and is found most commonly as an isolated fibrotic plaque centered over the lower lumbar spine and entrapping one or both ureters. It has been postulated that the fibrosis in the idiopathic cases results from a hypersensitivity reaction to antigens leaking into the retroperitoneum from atheromatous plaques in the aorta or common iliac arteries. In the remaining one third of cases, causes include ergot-derivative drugs, retroperitoneal hemorrhage or urine extravasation, and a desmoplastic response to a variety of tumors. In up to 15% of cases, associated fibrotic processes are found elsewhere in the body. Although the disease is imaged best with CT or MR, neither of these techniques can be used to differentiate benign from malignant plaques. Histologically, the disease is characterized in its early stages by inflammatory cells and edema in a loose collagen network. The mature plaque is composed of dense fibrous tissue with minimal cellular infiltration. This progression is important as it influences MR signal characteristics. 
Influence of the plasma protein concentration on renal function. 1. The effect of the plasma protein concentration on renal function remains controversial. Most, but not all, experimental studies suggest that a reduced plasma protein concentration perfusing the kidney may reduce tubular sodium reabsorption. Hypoproteinaemic disease states are usually associated with sodium retention, which is not always volume-dependent. 2. We induced a 21% and 24% reduction in plasma total protein and plasma albumin, respectively, in unanaesthetized sheep by acute extracorporeal plasmapheresis. Arterial pressure did not change, and changes in circulatory volume were minimised by infusion of crystalloid to maintain pulmonary artery occlusion pressure, measured using a Swann-Ganz pulmonary artery catheter. 3. After plasmapheresis, there was no significant change in creatinine clearance, sodium excretion, plasma renin activity or urinary kallikrein excretion. 4. After plasmapheresis, there was no significant reduction in plasma osmolality, increase in urine osmolality and fall in free water clearance. 5. The results suggest that in the absence of detectable changes in circulating volume or arterial pressure, acute hypoproteinaemia is associated with significant changes in renal water handling, but has no direct effect on sodium excretion or on renal release of renin and kallikrein. 
Effect of high-dose methylprednisolone and U74006F on eicosanoid synthesis after subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats. Free radicals and lipid peroxidation of membrane fatty acids are thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of arterial vasospasm and the physiopathologic patterns of neuronal damage after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We have evaluated the effects of treatment with either high-dose methylprednisolone every 8 hours or a single dose of U74006F on the temporal profile of ex vivo synthesis of four selected eicosanoids in brain slices after experimental induction of subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats. Prostaglandins D2 and E2, prostacyclin and leukotriene C4 levels were determined by radioimmunoassay after 1-hour incubation of the brain slices. The synthesis of prostaglandin D2 and 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha at 48 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage was significantly higher when compared to sham-operated animals (p = 0.01); prostaglandin E2 release was significantly enhanced at 6 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage (p = 0.01). The release of the lipoxygenase metabolite was significantly enhanced at 1, 6, and 48 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage induction. Both treatment regimens significantly reduced the ex vivo synthesis of prostaglandin D2, prostaglandin E2, and leukotriene C4 at 1, 6, and 48 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage, whereas the effects on 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha synthesis differed in the two treatment groups. U74006F enhanced the synthesis of prostacyclin metabolite in the early phase after subarachnoid hemorrhage, and high-dose methylprednisolone reduced the increasing synthesis at 48 hours. A strict comparison between the two treatments was not possible because of the different modalities of administration. However, these data suggest that the antioxidant effect of single-dose treatment with U74006F influenced the early and delayed effects on enzymatic lipid peroxidation, whereas the effects of methylprednisolone administration every 8 hours were more significant in the delayed phase. 
Brain and ocular abnormalities in infants with in utero exposure to cocaine and other street drugs. We describe 10 infants with developmental delay and congenital cerebral anomalies who were found to have had in utero exposure to vasoactive drugs. Nine infants had ophthalmological abnormalities; these included strabismus, nystagmus, and/or hypoplastic optic discs. Six mothers used cocaine, one used cocaine and heroin, one used only heroin, one used amphetamine, and one used phenylpropanolamine. Each of these cerebral anomalies (agenesis of the corpus callosum, septo-optic dysplasia, schizencephaly, hydranencephaly, congenital hydrocephalus, porencephaly, and cerebral infarctions) can be attributed to insults at different stages of development. There appears to be a relationship between the time of prenatal drug exposure and the type of cerebral anomaly, evoking malformations, disruptions, or fetal strokes. Since many or possibly all of these anomalies are thought to have a vascular origin, it seems appropriate to implicate prenatal exposure to vasoactive drugs. 
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome of the lower limbs in renal transplant patients treated with cyclosporin A. In a 36-month period, 240 patients at our institution received kidney transplants from cadaver donors. Cyclosporin A (CsA) was used as the initial immunosuppressive therapy. Seven patients (5 men and 2 women) developed severe pain, periarticular soft tissue swelling with no effusion, and vasomotor changes in affected areas. Although articular mobility was conserved, most of the patients had great difficulty in walking. A patchy osteoporotic pattern was seen radiographically and increased uptake of 99mtechnetium with a periarticular distribution in the clinically affected areas were found. All of these symptoms and radiographic and scintigraphic signs are compatible with definite reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (RSDS). Articular symptoms began within 3 months after kidney transplantation in all patients; all but 1 patient had plasma CsA levels greater than 200 ng/ml at that time. When the dosage of CsA was reduced, there was concomitant improvement in the RSDS, which appeared when the plasma CsA levels declined to less than 200 ng/ml. The mean duration of the clinical symptoms of RSDS was 8 months. We believe RSDS should be added to the list of complications that may appear in kidney transplant patients who receive CsA treatment. 
Coronary hemodynamic effects of atrial natriuretic peptide in humans. Studies of the effects of atrial natriuretic peptide on the coronary circulation have yielded conflicting results in animals and have not been fully investigated in human subjects. To further characterize the direct coronary hemodynamic actions of atrial natriuretic peptide in humans and to assess the safety of its administration in patients with coronary artery disease, incremental doses of synthetic atrial natriuretic peptide and nitroglycerin were infused into the left coronary artery in 14 patients, 11 of whom had coronary artery disease. Both agents caused dose-related increases in total coronary sinus blood flow. The largest dose of atrial natriuretic peptide given to all patients (100 micrograms) increased mean coronary sinus blood flow from 127 +/- 7 to 149 +/- 9 ml/min (p less than 0.05) and decreased coronary vascular resistance from 0.93 +/- 0.07 to 0.81 +/- 0.05 mm Hg/ml per min (p less than 0.05); mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate were not affected by this dose of atrial natriuretic peptide. The greatest changes in coronary sinus blood flow (+25%) and coronary vascular resistance (-18%) after atrial natriuretic peptide administration occurred in the patients with coronary artery disease and no other associated cardiovascular disease. The maximal effects of atrial natriuretic peptide were similar to those of nitroglycerin, and no untoward effects were observed. Thus, atrial natriuretic peptide is a direct coronary vasodilator in humans. Its maximal dose effects are similar to those of nitroglycerin and were well tolerated in this small group of patients. The physiologic importance and therapeutic potential of atrial natriuretic peptide in patients with coronary artery disease merit further investigation. 
Southern blot analysis in a case of Richter's syndrome. Evidence for a postrearrangement heavy chain gene deletion associated with the altered phenotype. Richter's syndrome (RS) can be defined as the emergence of an aggressive lymphoma in patients suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The authors performed immunophenotypic and Southern blot analysis of the peripheral blood and tissue specimen of a patient with RS. Using immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver staining techniques and a panel of monoclonal antibodies, the authors found that the large cells characteristic of RS showed an altered immunophenotype as compared with the CLL cells and did not express mu heavy chain. Southern blot analysis revealed identical kappa light chain rearrangements in both tumoral cell populations consistent with a common clonal origin. Using the JH probe and several restriction enzymes, the authors also found evidence for a postrearrangement deletion of the heavy chain mu gene. These findings suggest that in this case of RS, a deletion of the heavy chain mu gene resulted in loss of mu expression by the larger cells that were characteristic of RS and was associated with their altered phenotype. 
Development of a highly efficient expression cDNA cloning system: application to oncogene isolation. We developed an expression cDNA cloning system capable of generating high-complexity libraries with unidirectionally inserted cDNA fragments and allowing efficient plasmid rescue. As an application of this system, a cDNA library was constructed from an NIH 3T3 transformant induced by mouse hepatocellular carcinoma DNA. Transfection of NIH 3T3 cells by the library DNA led to the detection of several transformed foci from which identical plasmids with transforming ability could be rescued. Structure and sequence analysis of the cDNA clones revealed that the oncogene was created by recombinational events involving an unknown gene and the mouse homologue of the B-raf protooncogene. Detection of the same genetic rearrangement in independent primary transformants implied that generation of the oncogene occurred within the tumor rather than during DNA transfection or cDNA library construction. The high frequency at which clones were identified and the large sizes of some of the transforming cDNA inserts isolated suggest wide applicability of this mammalian expression cloning system for isolating cDNAs of biologic interest. 
Immunophenotyping of lymphocytes in liver tissue of patients with chronic liver diseases by flow cytometry. Immunological factors are important in the pathogenesis of a spectrum of hepatobiliary diseases. To characterize the nature of specific immunological responses in liver disease, we determined lymphocyte changes in liver tissue and in blood using flow cytometry. A total of 113 liver biopsy specimens was collected from patients with the following diseases: 19 chronic hepatitis B; 39 chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis; 27 alcoholic liver disease; 10 hepatic malignancy; 8 autoimmune hepatitis; 6 fatty liver and 4 primary biliary cirrhosis. The lymphocytes were isolated from the liver biopsy specimens by mechanical and enzymatic methods. The lymphocyte yield was 7,901 +/- 575 cells/mg of liver tissue. The viability of lymphocytes was 97.7% +/- 0.3%. Lymphocytes were stained with four pairs of two-color mixed fluorescein-conjugated monoclonal antibodies, including T4-T8 (CD4/CD8), T11-B1 (CD2-CD20), NKH1-T8 (CD56-CD8), IL-2R1-T11 (CD25-CD2), and the ratios were determined by an Epics Profile flow cytometer. Immunophenotyping of lymphocytes in whole blood samples was simultaneously analyzed. Variability in lymphocyte yield and different patterns of lymphocyte subsets were found in the liver biopsy specimens. The yields of lymphocytes from patients with chronic non-A, non-B and autoimmune hepatitis were highest, and the lowest yield was from patients with fatty liver. Patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, fatty liver and hepatic malignancy had relatively high ratios of CD4/CD8, CD56/CD8 and CD25/CD2; whereas patients with chronic hepatitis B, autoimmune hepatitis and non-A, non-B hepatitis had lower ratios of CD4/CD8, CD56/CD8 and CD25/CD2. No difference in lymphocyte ratios between the patients with cirrhotic and noncirrhotic alcoholic liver disease was found. 
Relationship between esophageal varices and azygos vein evaluated by cineportography. The relationship between esophageal varices and the azygos vein, which is generally considered to drain the major part of the variceal blood flow, was evaluated by percutaneous transhepatic cineportography in 35 patients with portal hypertension. We classified the patients into three groups. Those patients in whom most of the variceal blood drained into the azygos vein were designated the azygos-type group (n = 18). Those in whom most of the blood flowed into the brachiocephalic venous system were defined as the cervical-type group (n = 5), and those in whom the varices were drained by both the azygos vein and the brachiocephalic venous system were called the combined-type group (n = 12). Highly developed esophageal varices were recognized endoscopically in all patients in the combined-type and cervical-type groups, whereas some of the patients in the azygos-type group had less well-developed varices. In the azygos-type group, a tendency for the varices to be more severe as their drainage into the azygos vein became more cephalad was noted. Evaluation of the drainage of esophageal varices was considered useful not only for obtaining full comprehension of the significance of the azygos vein but also for assessing the suitability for sclerotherapy. Percutaneous transhepatic cineportography was useful for this purpose because it enables visualization of even the most minute amounts of blood flow. 
Prospective quality-of-life analysis after palliative photoablation for the treatment of malignant dysphagia. Forty patients were treated for the relief of malignant dysphagia by using laser photoablation. Their quality of life was assessed before the start of treatment and at monthly intervals until death. Two methods were used, a physician's assessment (QL index) and a patient's self-assessment, the linear analogue self-assessment (LASA). There was significant correlation between assessments done at different times by different physicians (QL index rs, 0.786; P less than 0.001; LASA rs, 0.865; P less than 0.001). The correlation coefficient of the QL index and the LASA score with the patient's dysphagia grade was 0.459 and 0.336, respectively. The patient's swallowing ability, QL index, and LASA all were improved significantly at some time after laser therapy. The mean survival was 16 weeks with 58% of patients dying at home, 28% in the hospital, and 18% in a hospice. It was concluded that laser photoablation improves the overall quality of life in patients with malignant dysphagia. 
Intra-arterial streptokinase infusion in acute lower limb ischaemia. Between 1986 and 1988, 38 patients (29 men and nine women), median age 65 years (range 38-85 years), underwent local intra-arterial streptokinase therapy for acute lower limb ischaemia. Three patient groups were identified: 15 with acute on chronic ischaemia (group 1), 12 postangioplasty (group 2) and 11 postfemorodistal bypass (group 3). Distal arteriographic run-off was a significant discriminant between success and failure in group 1 (n = 15, chi 2 = 11.5, P = 0.001) and in the overall group (n = 38, chi 2 = 17.2, P less than 0.001). In group 2, four patients with good run-off had an unsuccessful outcome; this was due in all cases to technical problems (haemorrhage in two and intimal dissection in two). In group 3, two patients with good run-off had unsuccessful streptokinase infusions. In both cases the graft failed in the early postoperative period (less than 30 days). By contrast, the four patients whose grafts occluded after 30 days had successful streptokinase infusions and long-term graft patency was achieved by further surgery and balloon dilatation. In all groups, no patient with a poor run-off had a successful outcome following streptokinase administration. The role of local intra-arterial streptokinase therapy in the critically ischaemic limb remains controversial, but these results suggest that an adequate run-off is an important factor in the selection of patients for treatment. 
Why all placentas should be examined by a pathologist in 1990 Placental pathology is rarely a part of the training for either obstetrician or pathologist. As a result there has been confusion regarding the potential benefits of routine placental examination. These benefits include clarification of the causes of many adverse pregnancy outcomes, improvement of the risk assessment for future pregnancies, and ascertainment of newborn risk for long-term neurodevelopment sequelae. Information on placental abnormalities may reveal the presence of chronic fetal insults and allow their differentiation from acute (peripartum) stresses. Current methods of risk assessment fail to identify the majority of pregnancies that end in prematurity, stillbirth, growth retardation, or fetal distress. We suggest that placental pathology should be a routine component of obstetric-neonatal care. 
Multimodal therapy for the management of localized Ewing's sarcoma of pelvic and sacral bones: a report from the second intergroup study. A total of 59 eligible patients with localized Ewing's sarcoma of the pelvic and sacral bones were entered into a multimodal Intergroup Ewing's Sarcoma Study (IESS-II) (1978 to 1982) and compared with a historical control series of 68 patients entered into an earlier multimodal Intergroup Ewing's Sarcoma Study (IESS-I) (1973 to 1978). High-dose intermittent multiagent chemotherapy (vincristine, cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin [doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH], and dactinomycin) was given to all patients for 6 weeks before and for 70 weeks following local therapy. All patients who had a tumor biopsy or incomplete resection performed received a dose of 55 Gy to the tumor bed. With a median follow-up time of 5.5 years, two of 59 patients (3%) had a local recurrence, five patients (8%) had a local recurrence and metastases, and 17 patients (29%) developed metastases only. There was significant statistical evidence of an advantage in relapse-free survival (RFS) and survival (S) for patients on IESS-II versus IESS-I, P = .006 and P = .002, respectively. At 5 years, the comparison between IESS-II versus IESS-I was 55% versus 23% for RFS and 63% versus 35% for S. 
Ulcerated anogenital hemangioma of infancy. Ten female infants were referred for symptomatic hemangiomas in the anogenital area. (One had had steroid treatment prior to consultation.) The natural history of these lesions is well known. Virtually all will spontaneously involute over a period of years. However, the lesions reported were particularly troublesome because of repeated ulcerations and subsequent pain. Prior treatment had been local wound care with antibiotic ointment and Telfa-type dressings. After referral from a family practitioner or pediatrician, argon laser treatment was performed in an outpatient setting. Eight of the 10 patients were treated with local anesthesia, and 2 had general anesthesia. All lesions healed in 1 to 5 weeks. No patients referred during this period were excluded from this series. All who received treatment were included. All the lesions involuted following treatment. In our estimation, the final result is identical to what may be expected after spontaneous involution of an ulcerated or infected hemangioma. The major difference is that involution occurred in a few weeks in laser-treated patients rather than a period of months or years. Ulcerated hemangiomas of the anogenital area have significant morbidity that can be efficiently avoided with the use of argon laser therapy. Lesions of the anogenital area have a strong predilection for females. 
Barrett's esophagus. A continuing conundrum. Barrett's esophagus, a condition in which the distal esophagus is lined by columnar epithelium, is almost always caused by gastroesophageal reflux and often occurs in conjunction with a sliding hiatal hernia. Patients are typically white men in their 50s who smoke and drink, and they present with complaints of regurgitation, heartburn, and/or dysphagia. Endoscopic biopsies are required to confirm the diagnosis. Complications, such as stricture, ulcer, dysplasia, and malignant degeneration, occur in many cases. Adenocarcinoma is the most serious complication. Medical treatment, including life-style changes as well as pharmacologic therapy, usually relieves symptoms and heals esophagitis, but when it fails, antireflux surgery is indicated. Patients without evidence of dysplasia should undergo endoscopy yearly; those with mild dysplasia require more frequent surveillance. If biopsies disclose severe dysplasia, esophagogastrectomy should be performed. 
Volunteer participation in feeding residents: training and supervision in a long-term care facility. The increasing number of residents in long-term care facilities who require full and partial assistance during meals has created a need for volunteer support to enhance the quality of life for residents. The correlation between dependence in eating and the existence of swallowing disorders and the risk of aspiration in persons with swallowing disorders suggests that training must be given to volunteers who feed residents. A formalized program for volunteer training and supervision was implemented at Coler Memorial Hospital, a long-term care facility. The program's development and benefits are outlined. Implementation of this program resulted in better training of volunteers, increased socialization, communication, and safety for patients during meals. 
Hyperthermia deaths in Finland in 1970-86. All cases in which hyperthermia had been determined as the basic cause of death during the period 1970-86 were collected from the records of the Central Statistical Office of Finland. Of the total of 230 cases, 228 were included in the present study; the two remaining victims died abroad, and no autopsy was performed in Finland. Most of the hyperthermia deaths occurred while the decedent was taking a sauna bath; most decedents were men aged 42-62 years. An increase in the total number of hyperthermia deaths, and of male victims, was noted from the beginning of the 1970s onward; the number of female victims remained at a relatively steady level throughout, with the exception of a slight rise in 1986. Acute alcohol consumption was detected in most of the victims; in some cases there was also a reference to chronic alcoholism or recent long-term heavy drinking. The findings suggest that in addition to the acute hazardous effect of ethanol on thermoregulatory mechanisms, the long-term consumption of alcohol may have promoted fatal hyperthermia in these subjects. 
The course of lymphocytic hypophysitis. A 27-year-old woman presented to our institution in her seventh month of pregnancy with complaints of headache and visual field disturbance. Workup revealed bitemporal hemianopia, a markedly enlarged pituitary gland on computed tomography scan, and biochemical evidence of partial hypopituitarism. At surgery, a biopsy specimen of the pituitary gland was taken revealing lymphocytic hypophysitis. The patient was treated with steroids and replacement doses of thyroid hormone. Visual fields improved postoperatively. A repeat computed tomography scan obtained 2 months after an uneventful pregnancy showed that her pituitary had regained normal size and contour. Over the next 9 months she had gradual recovery of all pituitary function. This case allowed us to follow and document the course of lymphocytic hypophysitis from its presentation as a macroadenoma with partial hypopituitarism to full recovery of both size and hormonal function of the pituitary. Lymphocytic hypophysitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a pituitary mass or pituitary dysfunction presenting in pregnancy. In patients with suspected lymphocytic hypophysitis and a pituitary mass, a trial of steroids may be therapeutic. 
The Rex regulatory protein of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I binds specifically to its target site within the viral RNA. The Rex protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) was expressed in bacteria and partially purified. Rex was shown to bind in vitro specifically to an RNA sequence located in the 3' long terminal repeat of HTLV-I, named Rex-responsive element (RXRE). Rex also bound in vitro to the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Rev-responsive element (RRE), while purified HIV-1 Rev protein did not bind to the RXRE. The binding results obtained in vitro are therefore in agreement with the nonreciprocal function of Rev and Rex in vivo. Rex binds specifically to both RRE and RXRE and activates expression in both HIV-1 and HTLV-I, while Rev binds to RRE and activates only HIV-1. Binding of Rex to RRE deletion mutants previously shown to lack either the Rev-responsive or the Rex-responsive portion suggested preferential binding of Rex to a distinct target within the RRE. These results demonstrated that Rex, like Rev, acts by binding to a specific RNA target. 
Twenty four hour heart rate variability: effects of posture, sleep, and time of day in healthy controls and comparison with bedside tests of autonomic function in diabetic patients. Heart rate variability was measured in 77 healthy controls and 343 diabetic patients by a count of the number of beat-to-beat differences greater than 50 ms in the RR interval during a 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiogram. In the healthy controls the lower 95% tolerance limits for total 24 hour RR interval counts were approximately 2000 at age 25, 1000 at 45, and 500 at 65 years. Six controls confined to bed after injury had normal 24 hour patterns of RR counts, while eight other controls showed loss of diurnal variation in both heart rate and RR counts during a period of sleep deprivation. RR counts in ten controls on and off night duty increased during sleep whenever it occurred. Nearly half (146) the 343 diabetic patients had abnormal 24 hour RR counts. The percentage of abnormal RR counts increased with increasing autonomic abnormality assessed by a standard battery of tests of cardiovascular autonomic function. A quarter of those with normal cardiovascular reflex tests had abnormal 24 hour RR counts. There were close correlations between 24 hour RR count results and the individual heart rate tests (r = 0.6). The assessment of cardiac parasympathetic activity by 24 hour RR counts was reliable. The diurnal variations in RR counts seen in the controls were probably related to sleep rather than either posture or time of day. The method was more sensitive than conventional tests of cardiovascular reflexes. 
Why all placentas should be examined by a pathologist in 1990 Placental pathology is rarely a part of the training for either obstetrician or pathologist. As a result there has been confusion regarding the potential benefits of routine placental examination. These benefits include clarification of the causes of many adverse pregnancy outcomes, improvement of the risk assessment for future pregnancies, and ascertainment of newborn risk for long-term neurodevelopment sequelae. Information on placental abnormalities may reveal the presence of chronic fetal insults and allow their differentiation from acute (peripartum) stresses. Current methods of risk assessment fail to identify the majority of pregnancies that end in prematurity, stillbirth, growth retardation, or fetal distress. We suggest that placental pathology should be a routine component of obstetric-neonatal care. 
Ischemic colitis associated with dextroamphetamine use. Ischemic colitis can be caused by a variety of medications including a number of sympathomimetic agents. We report the case of a 47-year-old narcoleptic man who had abdominal pain and rectal bleeding. The clinical, radiographic, and histologic findings supported the diagnosis of ischemic colitis associated with oral dextroamphetamine use. 
Slow toxins, biologic markers, and long-latency neurodegenerative disease in the western Pacific region. The western Pacific parkinsonism-dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis complex is a prototypical neurodegenerative disorder found among inhabitants of Guam, New Guinea (Irian Jaya, Indonesia) and Japan (Kii Peninsula, Honshu). Nonviral environmental factors peculiar to the affected populations seem to play a prominent etiologic role. Although cause-effect relationships cannot be established by epidemiologic studies alone, we have shown in all three affected population groups that individuals develop the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis variant of this disorder after heavy exposure to the raw or incompletely detoxified seed of neurotoxic cycad plants. Since long periods may elapse between cycad exposure and the appearance of neurological disease in humans, cycads may harbor a "slow toxin" that causes the postmitotic neuron to undergo slow irreversible degeneration. Two cycad neurotoxins are recognized, one of which (cycasin) is known to have long-latency effects (tumorigenesis) on mitotic neurons and replicating cells in other tissues. This paper explores the possible relationship between tumorigenesis and long-latency neurotoxicity, and discusses possible biologic markers of cycad exposure and subclinical neurodegenerative disease. 
Complications following thyroid surgery. The incidence of severe complications following thyroid gland surgery is a major reason to recommend total thyroidectomy or a less radical procedure in treating thyroid gland diseases. A retrospective study on 335 thyroidectomies was performed to assess the incidence of postoperative complications. Rates for hypocalcemia were based on patients undergoing bilateral procedures (n = 185) and on nerves at risk for recurrent laryngeal nerve injury (n = 513). Permanent hypocalcemia (8%) and unilateral laryngeal nerve injury (2.3%) were the major complications, with 0.8% having fatal complications. The achievement of long-term normal serum calcium levels has been the most frequent complication. Recurrent laryngeal nerve injury had a significant relationship with secondary procedures, histologic findings, and no nerve identification during surgery. In our series, major complications can be blamed on technical pitfalls, even in the hands of experienced surgeons. 
Respiratory and circulatory analysis of CO2 output during exercise in chronic heart failure. BACKGROUND. The output of carbon dioxide (VCO2) is controlled by both hemodynamics and ventilation. To understand VCO2 in patients who have chronic heart failure (CHF), we studied 14 patients who had New York Heart Association functional class III failure by measurements of hemodynamics, ventilation, and arterial and venous blood gases at rest and at 50 W of cycle ergometry exercise. METHODS AND RESULTS. Fick principle analysis of VCO2 showed that because of a limited increase in cardiac output, CHF patients widened their venoarterial CO2 content difference from 4.9 +/- 3.5 ml/dl at rest to 11.1 +/- 4.0 ml/dl with exercise (p less than 0.05). This increase in CO2 content difference was achieved with no change in venous CO2 content (from 54.3 +/- 3.3 ml/dl at rest to 54.5 +/- 4.8 ml/dl at exercise, p = NS); however, there was a decrease of arterial CO2 content (from 49.4 +/- 3.7 ml/dl at rest to 43.4 +/- 2.3 ml/dl with exercise, p less than 0.05). Modeling of the CO2 tension-content relation showed that there would have been a small, nonproportional increase of venous CO2 content as venous CO2 tension increased from 43.2 +/- 1.8 mm Hg at rest to 55.3 +/- 4.2 mm Hg during exercise (p less than 0.05); however, the development of metabolic acidosis during exercise entirely blunted the increase of CO2 content. In contrast, both the shape of the tension-content relation and the acidosis of exercise further influenced the decrease of arterial CO2 content as arterial CO2 tension decreased from 37.0 +/- 2.9 mm Hg at rest to 32.0 +/- 3.4 mm Hg during exercise (p less than 0.05) as a result of excess ventilation. CONCLUSIONS. In CHF patients during exercise, the circulatory limitations imposed by a low cardiac output on VCO2 are compensated by a widened venoarterial CO2 content difference. The content difference is not widened through an increase of venous CO2 content but rather by a decrease of arterial CO2 content caused by arterial hypocapnia and metabolic acidosis. 
A review of 35 endometrial ablations using the Nd:YAG laser for recurrent menometrorrhagia. Endometrial ablation with the Nd:YAG laser can be used to treat recurrent dysfunctional uterine bleeding. Two series of patients were studied. All suffered for at least 1 year with recurrent menometrorrhagia that was unresponsive to other treatments such as hormonal therapy or removal of polyps or fibroids. In the first series, 75 patients presenting with menometrorrhagia were considered for endometrial ablation using Nd:YAG laser, and 23 met conservative requirements. In the second series, 12 of the 25 patients considered met the conservative requirements. The patients in series I received danazol for 30 days before and 30 days after the procedure; patients in series II received leuprolide acetate. All patients were followed for at least 1 year after treatment was discontinued. Of the 35 patients in both series, 21 (60%) were found to have complete cessation of menstruation. Eleven (31.43%) resumed menstruating but at acceptable levels. Three patients (8.57%) had unsatisfactory results, one who later had a repeat ablation and two who had hysterectomies. Thus, 32 of 35 patients were successfully treated without further intervention after laser ablation. Nd:YAG endometrial ablation is efficacious and cost-effective for recurrent menometrorrhagia in selected patients. The additional benefit of this procedure is the avoidance of hysterectomies and postsurgical complications as well as the psychological consequences of a hysterectomy. 
The stimulus responsible for the peritoneal fluid inflammation observed in infertile women with endometriosis. OBJECTIVE: We tested the hypothesis that menstrual debris from ectopic endometrium is the stimulus responsible for eliciting the peritoneal fluid (PF) inflammation observed in infertile women with endometriosis. DESIGN, SETTING, PATIENTS: The extent of endometriosis was correlated with the PF volume and total PF cell count retrospectively in 135 infertile women with endometriosis. RESULTS: The volume and total cell count were positively correlated, whereas the total cell count was negatively correlated with the extent of endometriosis. Despite a similar negative trend, no statistically significant correlation was noted between the volume and the extent of endometriosis. These relationships did not change when the data were reanalyzed deleting those pathological features contributing to the endometriosis score but not capable of producing intraperitoneal menstrual debris, i.e., adhesions and encapsulated ovarian endometriomas. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that menstrual debris from ectopic endometrium is probably not a major factor in the elicitation of the observed PF inflammation in infertile women with endometriosis and suggest an inverse relationship may exist between PF inflammation and the extent of endometriosis. 
Response to the cold pressor test in normotensive and hypertensive patients. The response to the cold pressor test (CPT) was studied in 49 normotensive (NT) and 73 patients with essential sustained hypertension (HT). Patients were classified as responders when they increased their systolic pressure (SBP) by at least 16 mm Hg or their diastolic blood pressure (DBP) by at least 12 mm Hg. Forty-seven out of seventy-three (64%) increased their mean blood pressure (MBP) by 18.6 +/- 1.4 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM) in response to CPT. In NT subjects 23 out of 49 (47%) were responders (MBP = 16.3 +/- 1.3 mm Hg). In NT, but not in HT, patients, a negative relationship was observed between MBP changes during CPT and age (P less than .001) or basal DBP (P less than .01). There was no relationship between blood pressure response and the presence of a family history of hypertension. A positive correlation was found in HT patients between basal levels of active renin (AR) in the upright position and MBP changes during CPT (P less than .001). Mean plasma AR was 24.2 +/- 3.5 pg/mL in nonresponders v 37.5 +/- 2.9 pg/mL in responders (P less than .001). In HT, but not in NT, patients, blood pressure changes were associated with a simultaneous increase in HR (P less than .01 between delta MBP and delta HR). These results suggest that blood pressure elevation during CPT is a very common reaction in young normotensive subjects especially in those that have the lowest mean blood pressure. Therefore it is unlikely that CPT may be used as a predictor test of future hypertension in this population. 
Colorectal surgery: short-term prophylaxis with clindamycin plus aztreonam or gentamicin. A randomized study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of aztreonam plus clindamycin with that of gentamicin plus clindamycin for prophylaxis of infection following colorectal surgery. A total of 138 patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery were randomized to treatment with clindamycin (600 mg) plus either aztreonam (1 g) or gentamicin (80 mg) 30 minutes before and 8 and 16 hours after surgery. The study included 122 patients (88.4%) with colorectal carcinoma. Samples from the abdominal cavity and from the subcutaneous tissues were taken for bacteriologic study. All samples from the abdominal cavity yielded microorganisms; both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were isolated. Wound infections occurred in eight patients (12.1%) in the aztreonam group and in 12 patients (16.7%) in the gentamicin group. Escherichia coli, Bacteroides species, enterococci, and staphylococci were isolated most frequently from wounds and were often isolated from bacteriologic samples from the abdominal cavity of the same patients. The incidence of septic complications reflected the extent of nutritional and immunologic impairment. No significant differences were found between groups in the rate of urinary tract or lower respiratory tract infections. Aztreonam/clindamycin appears to be a valid alternative to gentamicin/clindamycin for the prophylaxis of infections following colorectal surgery. 
Biochemical and morphological analysis of the interaction of epidermal growth factor and parathyroid hormone with UMR 106 osteosarcoma cells. The interaction of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and PTH with UMR 106 osteosarcoma cells was examined biochemically and morphologically. EGF inhibited PTH-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in association with a reduction in PTH receptors and a decrease in the activity of the stimulatory guanyl nucleotide-binding protein (Gs). Universal inhibition of agonist-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity did not occur, inasmuch as EGF did not reduce prostaglandin E2-enhanced enzyme activity. The influence of EGF on PTH action correlated with its effect in the UMR 106 cell population of promoting entry into the cell cycle. Morphological analysis with radioautography indicated that both EGF and PTH receptors could be colocalized to certain UMR 106 cells, but that each were more abundantly distributed over discrete UMR 106 cell types. Based on the distribution of [3H]thymidine incorporation, EGF receptors were predominantly found over rapidly proliferating cells, whereas PTH receptors were most densely distributed over more quiescent cells. The results indicate that EGF and PTH receptors are localized over specific types within the heterogeneous population of UMR 106 cells and suggest that EGF may reduce PTH action in these cultures by enhancing the proliferation of progenitor cells lacking PTH receptors and reducing differentiation in this cell population, which leads to PTH receptor-enriched target cells. EGF and PTH receptors may, therefore, be useful as probes to examine both functional interactions and differentiation pathways among cells in osteoblast models in vitro and perhaps in vivo. 
Computed tomography of the brain in kwashiorkor: a follow up study. Computed tomography of the brain was performed initially and after nutritional rehabilitation on 12 children with kwashiorkor. The severe cerebral shrinkage evident initially resolved after nutritional rehabilitation. The mechanism and significance of this reversible abnormality remains to be determined. 
Intraarterial drug abuse: new treatment options. Accidental, intraarterial injections of abused substances continue to be difficult management problems because of severe vascular complications. Vasospasm probably plays an important role in the pathophysiology of this injury, in addition to the more accepted roles of thrombosis and endarteritis. Three patients with severe, upper extremity ischemia after intraarterial injection of heroin, methamphetamine, and meperidine were treated with intraarterial tolazoline and streptokinase, along with intravenous heparin. All three patients had improved perfusion, assessed both clinically and by angiography. The responses to treatment in these patients demonstrated the roles of vasospasm and thrombosis in the origin of this injury and the therapeutic benefits of appropriately administered vasodilators and thrombolytic agents. 
Endogenous interferon-gamma, macrophage activation, and murine host defense against acute infection with Trypanosoma cruzi. Parenteral interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) activates murine macrophages to inhibit Trypanosoma cruzi multiplication and diminishes parasitemia and mortality in acute infection. To investigate the role of endogenous IFN-gamma in acute infection, monoclonal antibody to IFN-gamma was injected intraperitoneally into mice. The 6250 neutralizing units given 24 and 96 h after infection reproducibly increased mortality (P less than .05). Histology sections showed markedly more nests of T. cruzi in treated mice. BALB/c, Swiss Webster, C57Bl/6, and C3H/HEN mice were susceptible to the effects of anti-IFN-gamma. Peritoneal macrophages from mice 4 days after infection and a single dose of 6250 units of anti-IFN-gamma had significantly reduced ability to inhibit T. cruzi multiplication. Multiple doses of anti-IFN-gamma delayed but did not prevent macrophage activation. These results indicate the critical role of endogenous IFN-gamma for macrophage activation and host defense against acute T. cruzi infection in mice. 
Penetrating craniocerebral missile injuries in civilians: a retrospective analysis of 314 cases. Analysis of 314 cases of penetrating craniocerebral missile injuries in civilians revealed a high rate of early mortality, with 228 victims having died at the scene and a further 38 dead within 3 hours. Surgery was performed in 44 patients who had a preoperative Glasgow Coma Score of at least 4. Out of the 26 survivors, all operated upon, 19 had an adequate recovery (score of 0-3 on the expanded Glasgow Outcome Scale). Vigorous resuscitation and early surgery often resulted in useful survivals and occasionally in spectacular recoveries. However, the high mortality rate on the scene or soon after the injury restricted the possibility of effective management to a minority of cases. 
Increased paracellular permeability in intrahepatic cholestasis induced by carmustine (BCNU) in rats. Carmustine [i.e., 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU)] is a drug with cholestatic potency both in experimental animals and in humans. To study the mechanisms involved in the development of the hepatic lesions, early changes in liver function in rats pretreated with the drug were investigated. Dosages and sampling times that did not result in hepatocellular injury, as indicated by release of marker enzymes, were applied. In isolated perfused livers from pretreated rats, bile flow and maximal secretion rate of taurocholate were decreased. An increase in biliary [14C]sucrose clearance suggested enhanced permeability of the bile tract and was correlated with increased inorganic phosphate concentration in bile. To assess the contribution of paracellular and transcellular pathways of sucrose, [14C]sucrose access into bile was analyzed by biliary off-kinetics after omission of the radioactive marker from the perfusion medium. An improved method was developed to quantitate the permeability of the bile tract by applying the classical flow equation to the paracellular portion of biliary sucrose clearance. With this method it was shown that pretreatment of rats with BCNU resulted in an increase in both diffusion and convection of paracellular sucrose from perfusate into bile. Accordingly, the fast access of horseradish peroxidase from perfusate into bile was facilitated in isolated perfused livers of BCNU-treated rats. The results indicate that an increase in paracellular permeability is an early alteration that may contribute to the development of hepatotoxic lesions caused by BCNU. It is shown that inert solute clearance can be used to assess paracellular permeability if the paracellular fraction is determined. 
Radiographic evaluation and diagnosis of the failed frontal osteoplastic flap with fat obliteration. In the absence of evidence of suppurative disease, clinical assessment of the symptomatic patient after frontal osteoplastic flap with fat obliteration is difficult because the cause of the pain is often neuralgic or from chronic vascular headache. Among 59 patients who have undergone this procedure at our institution since 1979, four required revision surgery. These patients were evaluated by computed tomographic and magnetic resonance scans, and the radiographic findings were compared with those present in 20 asymptomatic subjects. On the basis of the results of this study, we believe we can objectively identify those patients with chronic pain in whom the operation has been unsuccessful. A review of our experience with this procedure is presented along with criteria that enable early diagnosis of recurrent disease in the frontal sinus after osteoplastic sinusotomy. 
13-cis-retinoic acid induces cellular differentiation and durable remission in refractory cutaneous Ki-1 lymphoma. A 35-year-old man with refractory cutaneous Ki-1 lymphoma was salvaged successfully with oral 13-cis-retinoic acid (1 mg/kg/day). He had a complete remission lasting for 20 months before a single nodule recurred on his skin. Excisional biopsy of the recurrent tumor revealed a distinct morphologic change, suggesting cellular differentiation toward a more benign phenotype. No significant side effects were noted except mild xerostomia, bone pain, and hyperlipidemia. The authors believe that 13-cis-retinoic acid should be considered in the treatment of cutaneous Ki-1 lymphoma. 
The role of plasminogen activator in adhesion prevention. The reduction in peritoneal plasminogen activator activity (believed to be the pathogenic mechanism of adhesion formation) and its replacement with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) have been investigated in the prevention of initial (primary) and recurrent adhesion production. Other, potentially harmful, effects of intra-abdominal rt-PA application have also been examined. This included effects on wound and colonic healing and hemostasis. The prevention of adhesion formation was studied in primary and recurrent adhesion formation using a rabbit model. Primary adhesions formed in one of 14 occasions (7 per cent) with rt-PA compared with 12 of 15 occasions (80 per cent) with placebo (chi-square equals 15.542, p less than 0.001). Recurrent adhesions formed on two of 27 occasions (7 per cent) with rt-PA compared with 22 of 28 occasions with placebo (79 per cent) and 12 of 12 occasions with control rabbits (100 per cent, chi-square equals 40.588, p less than 0.0001). The application of rt-PA to abdominal wounds in the rabbit failed to show any reduction in wound strength at four, seven and ten days. Colonic anastomotic healing was unaltered by rt-PA at three, five and seven days. There was no difference seen in hemorrhagic events between control, placebo or rt-PA rabbits at any stage. The use of rt-PA is an exciting development in the field of adhesion prevention; it is an effective inhibitor of adhesion formation and intra-abdominal administration appears safe in a rabbit model. 
Comparative efficacy of cimetidine, famotidine, ranitidine, and mylanta in postoperative stress ulcers. Gastric pH control and ulcer prevention in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. To determine the comparative efficacy of several histamine (H2)-receptor antagonists (cimetidine, famotidine, and ranitidine) and the antacid Mylanta-II (Stuart Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, DE) in gastric pH control and the prevention of postoperative stress ulceration, a prospective, randomized study was performed in a homogeneous population of patients with elective coronary artery bypass. None of the 57 patients in the study population had a documented history of ulcer disease. There were four treatment groups, each with similar demographics (age and sex). Cimetidine-treated group consisted of 15, famotidine-treated group of 18, ranitidine-treated group of 19, and antacid-treated group of 5 patients. There was no hemodynamically significant postoperative gastrointestinal bleeding in any of the patients. When the agents were compared for efficacy of gastric pH control, statistically better pH control was found in the famotidine- and ranitidine-treated groups (P less than 0.003) than in the cimetidine-treated group (pH less than or equal to 4.0) during the 20-hour observation period. Side effects (hematologic and neurological) were noted only in the cimetidine-treated group. The results of this study indicate that in patients in postoperative intensive care, better gastric pH control, and thus prevention of gastric stress ulcers, is achieved with either famotidine or ranitidine rather than cimetidine or antacid. 
Peritoneal seeding following potentially curative resection of colonic carcinoma: implications for adjuvant therapy. Adjuvant therapeutic strategies for colon cancer are based on the knowledge of tumor recurrence patterns following potentially curative resection. Innovative methods for regional delivery of chemotherapy to the liver and peritoneal surfaces are now available to complement systemic treatment. We reviewed clinical, reoperation, and autopsy series to determine the incidence of peritoneal seeding following colon cancer resection. The data suggest a 25-35 percent peritoneal failure rate among patients that recur, indicating that intraperitoneal chemotherapy is a sensible adjuvant approach. The theory behind intraperitoneal chemotherapy and potential complications is discussed. We suggest initiation of clinical trials combining systemic and intraperitoneal chemotherapy. 
A case of granulomatous hepatitis after intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration. A 61-year-old man received intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) as treatment for superficial bladder carcinoma. High spiking relapsing fevers began 39 days after the initial treatment. A liver biopsy revealed noncaseating granuloma. Deoxyribonucleic acid hybridization of the bone marrow was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. Pressure exerted to instill the BCG may have favored dissemination. 
Autotransplantation of dispersed pancreatic islet tissue combined with total or near-total pancreatectomy for treatment of chronic pancreatitis. Chronic pancreatitis is difficult to treat in patients with a nondilated duct. Patients experiencing intractable pain unresponsive to or judged untreatable by lesser procedures must decide between total pancreatectomy and resultant diabetes or a continuation of their pancreatitis. From 1977 through 1990, 26 patients underwent extensive pancreatectomy and dispersed pancreatic islet tissue autotransplantation for treatment of chronic pancreatitis pain and prophylaxis of surgical diabetes. Of these 26 patients, total (Whipple) or near-total (greater than 95%) pancreatectomy was performed in 24 patients. Of these 24 patients, pain relief could be assessed in 21 patients at 5 to 155 months (mean, 5.7 years), and 19 patients (90%) reported partial or complete remission. Of the patients who underwent total or near-total pancreatectomy, islets were injected intraportally in 22 patients and into the renal subcapsule in two patients. The latter two patients have required insulin since surgery. Of the other 22, one patient died from a complication of the pancreatectomy. Nine of the 21 evaluable recipients of intraportal islet autografts were insulin independent for at least several months after surgery. Five patients are currently insulin independent at 6 years, 4 years, 1.5 years, 9 months, and 5 months after surgery. Of the other four patients, one patient died insulin independent at 6 years, and three patients required insulin beginning 8 to 18 months after surgery. Insulin independence correlated with the number of islets recovered, which in turn correlated inversely with the degree of pancreatic fibrosis. Of our four most recent patients, three patients had mildly to moderately fibrotic glands, and higher numbers of islets were obtained. After total (Whipple) pancreatectomy, these three patients are insulin independent. A liver biopsy was performed in one patient 8 months after total pancreatectomy and islet autotransplantation; numerous clusters of islet cells staining strongly for insulin and glucagon were detected within portal triads on both wedge and needle biopsy specimens. Morbidity related to the intraportal-dispersed pancreatic islet tissue transplantation was low (no disseminated intravascular coagulation, significant portal hypertension, or hepatic dysfunction). Islet autotransplantation can be an effective and safe adjunct to extensive pancreatic resection for those patients who risk surgical diabetes for relief of their chronic pancreatitis pain. 
Carotid duplex sonography: bisferious pulse contour in patients with aortic valvular disease. Characteristic systolic and diastolic pulse contours occur in the carotid Doppler waveforms of patients with aortic valvular disease that have not previously been described in publications concerning carotid duplex sonography. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the presence and characterize the nature of these carotid duplex waveform abnormalities in patients with known aortic valve disease and to correlate these changes with the severity of valve dysfunction. The study group consisted of 26 patients with aortic regurgitation or combined aortic regurgitation and aortic stenosis. Duplex studies were retrospectively reviewed by two radiologists for the presence of two systolic peaks, and for the presence of diastolic reversal of flow direction. This pattern of two systolic peaks, characteristic of aortic regurgitation, is called bisferious from the Latin "twice beating." Aortic regurgitation was graded by echocardiography as mild, moderate, or severe by the cardiologists reviewing the examination. A group of 20 age-matched patients without aortic valvular disease were similarly assessed. The bisferious pattern was demonstrated in 13 (50%) of 26 patients. Five (19%) of 26 patients had significant reversal of diastolic flow. Four patients were studied both before and after aortic valve replacement. Three had bisferious wave contours preoperatively; two of these also had diastolic reversal of flow. The fourth patient had retrograde flow in diastole without systolic contour abnormality. Postoperatively, all carotid waveforms were normal. None of the duplex waveforms in the control group demonstrated characteristic systolic or diastolic abnormalities. The bisferious waveform and retrograde diastolic flow are Doppler patterns associated with aortic valvular disease. These patterns are reversible after aortic valve replacement. While echocardiography remains the study of choice in the evaluation of suspected valvular dysfunction, up to one third of patients with aortic regurgitation may not have a detectable murmur. Therefore, identifying these patterns on carotid duplex examinations may provide clinically useful information and serve as a clue to previously unsuspected cardiovascular disease. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian arteries: long-term results in 52 patients. We studied the long-term results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian artery in treating stenosis (43 patients) or occlusion (nine patients). In all 52 patients, the blood pressure before treatment in the arm on the involved side was at least 30 mm Hg lower than that in the opposite arm. Thirty-nine patients (75%) had symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency (dizziness, blurred vision, ataxia). Angioplasty was successful in 40 (93%) of 43 patients with stenosis and in five (56%) of nine patients with occlusion. In the successfully treated patients, follow-up angiograms showed absence of narrowing greater than 30% stenosis, and the blood pressure in the treated arm equaled that in the opposite arm. The patients were followed up for 6-48 months (mean, 29 months). During this time, the blood pressure in the treated arm remained normal in 41 (91%) of 45 patients. The symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency subsided in 28 (72%) of 39 patients. These results suggest that percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is useful for treating subclavian artery stenosis or occlusion. 
Systemic toxicity of ropivacaine during ovine pregnancy. Ropivacaine is a new amide local anesthetic structurally related to bupivacaine and mepivacaine. Its potency and duration of action are similar to those of bupivacaine but its therapeutic index may be greater. Since pregnancy enhances the cardiotoxicity of bupivacaine, the current study was devised to compare the toxicity of ropivacaine in chronically instrumented nonpregnant and pregnant ewes during continuous intravenous infusion of the drug at the rate of 0.5 mg.kg-1.min-1. In all animals, symptoms of local anesthetic toxicity occurred in the usual order--convulsions, hypotension, apnea, and circulatory collapse. There were no significant differences between the two groups of animals in the doses and plasma concentrations of ropivacaine associated with each toxic manifestations. For example, circulatory collapse occurred at a mean dose of 11.3 +/- 1.1 mg.kg-1 in nonpregnant and 12.4 +/- 0.9 mg.kg-1 in pregnant animals, with corresponding plasma concentrations of 7.3 +/- 0.3 and 9.6 +/- 2.1 micrograms.ml-1 (P = not significant). Protein binding of ropivacaine in the concentration range associated with toxic manifestations was similar in sera obtained from nonpregnant and pregnant ewes. In conclusion, ovine pregnancy does not enhance the systemic toxicity of ropivacaine, possibly because of an absence of gestation-related increase in the availability of free drug. 
Long-term preservation of the mammalian myocardium. Effect of storage medium and temperature on the vulnerability to tissue injury. Human heart preservation for transplantation commonly involves infusion of cold cardioplegic solutions and subsequent immersion in the same solution. The objectives of the present study were (1) to establish the temporal relationship between storage time (at 10 degrees C) and the postischemic recovery of function in the isolated rat heart, (2) to assess, by metabolic and functional measurements, whether storing the heart in fluid as opposed to moist air had any effect on the viability of the preparation, and (3) to ascertain the optimal storage temperature. Isolated rat hearts (at least 6 in each group) were infused for 3 minutes with St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution No. 2 at 10 degrees C, stored at 10 degrees C for 6, 12, 18, or 24 hours, and then reperfused at 37 degrees C. Mechanical function, assessed by construction of pressure-volume curves (balloon volumes: 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, and 120 microliters), was measured before ischemia and storage and after 60 minutes of reperfusion. Function deteriorated in a time-dependent manner; thus at a balloon volume of 60 microliters the recovery of left ventricular developed pressure was 84.2% +/- 5.3% after 6 hours (p = not significant when compared with preischemic control); 69.1 +/- 3.3% after 12 hours (p less than 0.05); 55.6% +/- 4.4% after 18 hours (p less than 0.05), and 53.0% +/- 6.8% (p less than 0.05) after 24 hours of storage. Other indices of cardiac function, together with creatine kinase leakage and high-energy phosphate content, supported these observations. Since the recovery of the left ventricular developed pressure balloon volume curves were essentially flat after 18 and 24 hours of storage, either 6 or 12 hours of storage were therefore used in subsequent studies. Comparison of storage environment (hearts either immersed in St. Thomas Hospital cardioplegic solution No. 2 or suspended in moist air at 10 degrees C for 6 or 12 hours) revealed no significant differences in functional recovery between the groups. Thus hearts recovered 94.9% +/- 3.5% and 113.7% +/- 12.4%, respectively, after 6 hours of storage and 71.6% +/- 2.4% and 54.2% +/- 7.9%, respectively, after 12 hours of storage. Enzyme leakage and tissue water gain were also similar in both groups of hearts. Finally, hearts (n = 6 per group) were subjected to 12 hours' storage at 1.0 degree, 5.0 degrees, 7.5 degrees, 10.0 degrees, 12.5 degrees, 15.0 degrees, and 20.0 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Should all patients with node-negative breast cancer receive adjuvant therapy? Identifying additional subsets of low-risk patients who are highly curable by surgery alone. This study, which used combined first-generation prognostic factors (tumor size, histologic differentiation, and age) on 408 patients with axillary node-negative (ANN) breast cancer treated by surgery alone without systemic adjuvant therapy between 1976 and 1987 at the Roswell Park Cancer Institute, discerned four subsets of low-risk patients with a 7-year relapse rate of 6% or better. The first subset consisted of 48 patients (12% of the population) with tumors 1 cm or less in diameter that were well or moderately differentiated. These patients had a disease-free rate (DFR) of 100% (95% confidence interval [CI], 94% to 100%). The second subset consisted of 35 patients (9% of the population) with tumors less than or equal to 1 cm that were poorly differentiated or anaplastic. These patients older than 50 years of age had a DFR of 97% (95% CI, 91% to 100%). The third subset consisted of 36 patients (9% of the population) with tumors 1.1 to 2 cm that were well or moderately differentiated. These patients were older than 50 years of age and had a DFR of 94% (95% CI, 85% to 100%). The fourth subset consisted of 36 patients with ductal carcinoma in situ with microscopic invasion. These patients had a DFR of 100% (95% CI, 87% to 100%). Twenty-two of these patients, not in the other subsets mentioned, comprised 5% of the total population. These patients at low risk of recurrence, who comprise one third of the entire node-negative population, are highly curable by local therapy alone and may be spared the risks and costs of routine adjuvant systemic therapy (AST). Patients with tumors larger than 2 cm (152 patients; 37% of the population) are at high risk of recurrence (26% with a DFR of 74% [95% CI, 64% to 84%]) and should routinely receive systemic adjuvant therapy. Patients with tumors up to 2 cm who are not in the low-risk groups fall in a gray area (recurrence, 15% to 21%; DFR, 79% to 85%). For these groups, combining second-generation prognostic factors such as DNA ploidy, S-phase fraction, or cathepsin D should give the physician additional information to aid in making decisions regarding adjuvant therapy. 
Risk factors influencing mortality after bipolar hemiarthroplasty in the treatment of fracture of the femoral neck. The hospital records of 204 patients (mean age 80 years, range 54-96 years) with a displaced intracapsular femoral neck fracture treated by cemented bipolar hemiarthroplasty were examined to record all available data on factors suspected of influencing mortality. The data were analyzed statistically using survival analysis (Cox model). The six months mortality rate was 20% and the one year mortality rate was 28%. The following factors, in order to decreasing importance, had significant influence on mortality: cardiac factors other than previous myocardial infarction; status as a nursing home patient; chronic pulmonary disease; serum creatinine level greater than 1.7 mg/100 ml; pneumonia; previous myocardial infarction; duration of surgery; and gender. The following factors had no significant influence on mortality: age, time delay from admission to surgery, mode of anesthesia, and cerebrovascular diseases. In conclusion, medical conditions were the most important determinants of survival in the present study. The time delay between admission and surgery did not influence the chances of survival. This does not mean that surgical delay beyond that essential for stabilizing the patient is not problematic, but indicates that ample time should be spent on assessment and resuscitation before surgery. 
Incidence of heterotopic ossification after total hip replacement: effect of the type of fixation of the femoral component. The incidence and severity of heterotopic ossification after sixty-five consecutive primary uncemented total hip replacements were compared with those after seventy consecutive primary hybrid total hip replacements (consisting of an uncemented acetabular component and a cemented femoral component). All patients had had the arthroplasty because of osteoarthrosis. The sex distribution, prevalence of bilateral disease of the hip, and frequency of previous operations were similar in both groups. All of the operations were performed by one surgeon who used the same operative approach. Preoperative, immediate postoperative, and six-month follow-up radiographs were reviewed for all patients. For 90 per cent of the hips, radiographs that were made after a minimum follow-up of one year were also reviewed. In the group of patients who had an uncemented femoral component, there was a statistically significant increase in the frequency of heterotopic bone and in its severity. Either none or only class-I ectopic bone developed in 74 per cent of the hips in the hybrid group, compared with 40 per cent of the hips in the uncemented group (p less than 0.005). In contrast, class-III or IV heterotopic ossification was evident in 13 per cent of the hips in the uncemented group (p less than 0.005). None of the patients in the hybrid group needed reoperation for excision of ectopic bone, but four (6 per cent) of the patients in the uncemented group needed such a reoperation because of severe limitation of motion. 
Acute transient thrombocytopenia associated with cocaine abuse in pregnancy. A case is described of cocaine-induced severe transient thrombocytopenia associated with a hypertensive crisis at 21 weeks' gestation. Liver function tests and coagulation studies were all within normal ranges. Blood pressure was controlled with hydralazine. This clinical presentation, similar to severe preeclampsia, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute hypertension and low platelet count, especially in early gestations when preeclampsia is relatively rare. Unlike severe preeclampsia, for which active intervention and delivery are usually selected, cocaine-related hypertension-thrombocytopenia, especially in very premature gestations, may warrant conservative management. 
A randomized trial in inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer: vindesine and cisplatin versus mitomycin, vindesine, and cisplatin versus etoposide and cisplatin alternating with vindesine and mitomycin. Patients with inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were randomly assigned to receive one of three dosage regimens: (1) vindesine and cisplatin (VP); (2) mitomycin, vindesine, and cisplatin (MVP); or (3) etoposide and cisplatin alternating with vindesine and mitomycin (EP/VM). In 199 assessable patients, the response rates were VP, 33%; MVP, 43%; and EP/VM, 19%. The addition of mitomycin to the VP regimen did not significantly improve the response rate. The response rate was significantly lower with the EP/VM regimen than with the MVP regimen (P less than .01). The median survival times were VP, 50 weeks; MVP, 42 weeks; and EP/VM, 40 weeks. These differences were not significant. Grade III or IV thrombocytopenia was significantly greater (P less than .01) in MVP patients (22%) than in the VP (5%). Other toxicities were similar in the three groups. Analyses of prognostic factors showed that treatment with MVP, sex, and histologic classification (squamous cell carcinoma) were predictive of improved response. Important factors for improved survival, according to the Cox regression analysis, were the stage of disease, performance status, sex, weight loss before diagnosis, and hemoglobin concentration. 
Post-herpetic neuralgia: further post-mortem studies of cases with and without pain. The pathological features associated with post-herpetic neuralgia require further study. We report here 5 cases, 3 with severe post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) and 2 with no persistent pain. The findings of dorsal horn atrophy and cell, axon and myelin loss with fibrosis in the sensory ganglion were found only in patients with persistent pain. Marked loss of myelin and axons in the nerve and/or sensory root were found in cases with and without pain. Some evidence is presented for a more generalized subacute or chronic inflammatory process which may explain the clinical features of some patients. Further studies will be necessary to fully describe the morbid anatomy of this disorder. 
Murine anti-interleukin-6 monoclonal antibody therapy for a patient with plasma cell leukemia. A patient with primary plasma cell leukemia resistant to chemotherapy was treated for 2 months with daily intravenous injections of anti-interleukin-6 (IL-6) monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs). The patient's clinical status improved throughout the treatment and no major side effects were observed. Serial monitoring showed blockage of the myeloma cell proliferation in the bone marrow (from 4.5% to 0% myeloma cells in the S-phase in vivo) as well as reduction in the serum calcium, serum monoclonal IgG, and the serum C-reactive protein levels. The serum calcium and serum monoclonal IgG corrected by approximately 30%, whereas the C-reactive protein corrected to undetectable levels during treatment. No major side effects developed, although both platelet and circulating neutrophil counts decreased during anti-IL-6 therapy. A transient immunization was detected 15 days after the initiation of the treatment, which could explain the recovery of myeloma cell proliferation after 2 months of treatment (2% myeloma cells in the S phase). In conclusion, this first anti-IL-6 clinical trial demonstrated the feasibility of injecting anti-IL-6 MoAbs, and also a transient tumor cytostasis and a reduction in IL-6-related toxicities. It gave insight into the major biologic activities of IL-6 in vivo and may serve as a basis for further development of anti-IL-6 therapy in myeloma and other IL-6-related diseases. 
The prognostic significance of autologous bone marrow transplant in advanced neuroblastoma This report provides strong evidence for conducting a controlled randomized clinical trial of autologous bone marrow transplantation versus conventional chemotherapy in childhood neuroblastoma, which is disseminated beyond the intracavity nodes, and which is diagnosed in children older than 12 months of age. On the basis of two Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) studies, one a surgery plus conventional chemotherapy study (POG 8441) and the other an elective autologous transplant pilot protocol (POG 8340), there was no significant prognostic benefit of switching in remission from the surgery plus chemotherapy protocol to the transplant protocol (P = .91) or of switching in remission from the surgery plus chemotherapy protocol to any transplant (P = .75). The analysis is based on 116 patients achieving a complete or partial remission, 32 of whom received transplants on the pilot protocol, and 17 of whom received transplants outside the pilot protocol. While potential selection bias precludes cause-effect conclusions, these data strongly suggest that a large randomized trial of autologous bone marrow transplantation should be conducted before accepting this form of therapy as standard. 
Waking and rising at night as a trigger of myocardial ischemia. A diurnal pattern of changes in transient myocardial ischemia has been well documented in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) with an increase in the early morning hours. To further investigate potential triggers of ischemia, certain defined and distinct episodes of waking and rising during the nighttime were examined. Of 113 patients who underwent ambulatory monitoring of the electrocardiogram, 466 episodes of ischemia lasting 3,926 minutes were detected in 67 of the patients. In 30 patients who had ischemia at night, 21 reported 36 occasions of waking and rising, and 67% of these events were associated with ST-segment depression. Frequency and duration of ischemia were similar in the nocturnal episodes versus the early morning episodes of ischemia as were the increases in heart rate at 30, 10, 5 and 1 minute before the onset. Even before waking, there was an increase in heart rate beginning approximately 30 minutes before the onset of ischemia. This increase became significant 5 minutes before onset both in the early morning and on rising at night. Patients with nocturnal ischemia had significantly worse clinical signs of CAD. This study shows that rising at night is often associated with episodes of myocardial ischemia and, like the morning events on rising, is likely an important trigger of ischemia in patients with CAD. 
A feasibility study of the SDI test for the evaluation of gastrointestinal cancer sensitivity to anticancer drugs. The succinic dehydrogenase inhibition (SDI) test has been widely used to evaluate the sensitivity of cancer cells to anticancer agents. Recently, the techniques for tissue culture have progressed; the ability to make formazan has improved with the use of methylthiazol tetrazolium bromide (MTT) instead of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) in this assay. Therefore, we modified the SDI test in order to evaluate the drug response to gastrointestinal cancer and applied it in a clinical study. In this assay, the optimal concentration levels of mytomycin-C and Adriamycin for the clinical materials are 10 micrograms/ml, that is, 10 times higher than for the cancer cell line, and that of Cisplatin is 30 micrograms/ml, for Cisplatin is unstable in the culture medium. To evaluate its antitumor effect, it was found necessary to expose the cancer cells to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) for 3 days. We applied this assay for the clinical materials; the evaluable rate of this assay is 83.3%. The peculiarity of this assay is its high evaluable rate. These results suggest that this test may be useful for clinical application. 
Human cervical epithelial cells that express HLA-DR associated with viral infection and activated mononuclear cell infiltrate. The association between the expression of HLA-DR antigens on cervical epithelium and the local immune state of activation in colposcopically obtained biopsy specimens from patients with histologically documented wart virus infection was investigated. In normal cervical epithelium no HLA-DR staining was detected. No or few IL-2R positive cells were found in the contiguous sections. HLA-DR was expressed by epithelial cells in six out of the 14 samples of wart virus infection. The pattern of fluorescence was focal, but strong and diffuse, to the whole epithelial layer. In the six samples with HLA-DR positive epithelium the numbers of IL-2R positive cells in the lamina propria were strongly increased, ranging between 75 and 90%. HLA-DR expression by cervical epithelium was observed in only two of 12 samples from patients with mixed epithelial non-virus related abnormalities. No increase in the numbers of IL-2R positive cells was observed in this group of patients. Additionally, no significant differences in terms of T lymphocyte infiltrate were found among the three groups. The results indicate that wart virus infection is associated with enhanced HLA-DR epithelial expression and they lend support to the concept that in the human cervix the epithelium actively participates in the local immune response. 
Results of spinal arthrodesis with pedicle screw-plate fixation. Sixty-one patients were followed for an average of thirty months (range, twenty-four to thirty-five months) after arthrodesis of the lumbar or lumbosacral spine with pedicle screw-plate fixation for painful degenerative arthritis, spondylolisthesis, or pseudarthrosis. The patients rated the clinical result according to an analog scale. Most patients reported a marked decrease in pain and an increase in function, and two-thirds were able to work full time. The result of the operation was regarded as a clinical failure if the patient considered it so, if an additional operation had been done, or if the functional and pain scores were not good (that is, if the patient was not able to work full time and the rating for pain was more than 5 of 10 points). Seventeen (28 per cent) of the patients were considered to have a clinical failure, with the lowest rate (20 per cent) for patients who had painful degenerative arthritis and the highest rate (47 per cent) for patients who had had a pseudarthrosis before the operation. The rate of fusion was 90 per cent in patients who had painful degenerative disease, 93 per cent in patients who had spondylolisthesis, and 65 per cent in patients who had had a pseudarthrosis preoperatively. 
Severe hypertension with segmental renal infarction following surgical removal of a retroperitoneal malignant hemangiopericytoma: a case report. Severe hypertension developed in a fifty-five year-old woman after surgical removal of a retroperitoneal tumor, when the renal artery was injured. Renal arteriography after the surgery demonstrated a segmental infarction of the right kidney. A close relationship between activation of the renin-angiotensin system and the development of severe hypertension was observed. Satisfactory control of blood pressure concomitant with reduction of plasma renin activity was achieved by a combination of an angiotensin-converting anzyme inhibitor, beta-blocking agent, and calcium-entry blocker. The mechanism of activation of the renin-angiotensin system in renal infarction is discussed. 
Allodynia-like effects in rat after ischaemic spinal cord injury photochemically induced by laser irradiation. We report behaviours suggesting the presence of allodynia elicited by non-noxious brushing and mechanical pressure following photochemically induced ischaemic spinal cord injury in the rat. Female rats were intravenously injected with Erythrosin B and the T10 vertebra was irradiated with a laser beam for 1, 5 or 10 min. These procedures initiated an intravascular photochemical reaction, resulting in ischaemic spinal cord injury. After irradiation a clear allodynia was observed in most rats. The animals vocalized intensely to light touch during gentle handling and were clearly agitated to light brushing of the flanks. The vocalization threshold in response to the mechanical pressure measured with von Frey hairs was markedly decreased during this period. In some animals the existence of spontaneous pain was suggested by spontaneous vocalization. The duration of the allodynia varied among animals from several hours to several days. The severity and duration of allodynia seemed not to be related to the duration of irradiation. In sham-operated rats a slight, transient allodynia was also noted around the wound within a few hours after surgery, which was effectively relieved by systemic morphine (2 mg/kg, i.p.). Morphine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) also partially relieved the allodynia in spinally injured rats 4 h after irradiation. However, morphine, even at a higher dose (5 mg/kg, i.p.), failed to alleviate the allodynia in spinally injured rats 24-48 h after the injury. Systemic injection of the GABAB agonist baclofen (0.01-0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), but not the GABAA agonist muscimol (1 mg/kg, i.p.), effectively relieved allodynia during this period. Pretreatment with guanethidine 24 h and just prior to the irradiation (20 mg/kg, s.c.) did not prevent the occurrence of allodynia in spinal cord injured rats. The present observation is the first to show that ischaemic spinal cord injury could result in cutaneous mechanical allodynia. This phenomenon is resistant to morphine and may not involve the sympathetic system. Histological examination of allodynic animals 3 days after spinal cord injury revealed considerable morphological damage in the dorsal spinal cord of a rat irradiated for 5 min. The related dorsal roots were also slightly affected in this animal, while the dorsal root ganglia were normal. However, in rats irradiated for 1 min, despite the existence of strong allodynia, no damage could be found at this time in the spinal cord, dorsal roots or dorsal root ganglia. It is suggested that functional deficits in the GABAB system in the spinal cord may be related to this allodynia-like phenomenon.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Cytokine content in pleural effusion. Comparison between tuberculous and carcinomatous pleurisy. Tuberculous pleurisy is a good model for resolution of local cellular immunity. It would be expected that tuberculous pleural fluid contains a variety of immunologically important cytokines because of the accumulation of immunocompetent cells in the pleural cavity. We studied interleukin 1 (IL-1), interleukin 2 (IL-2), and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) levels in pleural fluid of 20 patients with tuberculous pleurisy and compared them with those in pleural fluid of 20 patients with malignant pleurisy. We also evaluated adenosine deaminase (ADA) levels in both effusions. Tuberculous pleural fluid had higher levels of IL-1, IL-2, IFN-gamma, and ADA than malignant pleural fluid. Although the difference of IL-1 level between tuberculous and malignant pleural fluid was modest, that of IL-2, IFN-gamma, and ADA was dominant. These findings suggest that activated T lymphocytes in tuberculous pleural fluid concern the production of lymphokines at the morbid site and they effectively exert local cellular immunity through the action of such lymphokines. 
The acetylcholine-induced flare response in evaluation of small fiber dysfunction. We iontophoresed acetylcholine on the dorsum of the foot and simultaneously measured flare and sweat responses using laser Doppler and sudorometric techniques, respectively. We compared these responses with those induced by histamine. Both acetylcholine and histamine produced dose-dependent flare, but only acetylcholine produced sweat responses. Responses to acetylcholine and histamine were blocked by hexamethonium chloride and pyrilamine maleate, respectively (p less than 0.01). We compared flare and sweat responses in 26 control subjects, 21 asymptomatic diabetic patients and 41 patients (17 diabetic, 24 nondiabetic) with pain symptoms suggestive of small fiber neuropathy and normal sensation (n = 15) or mild to moderate (n = 19) or severe (n = 7) sensory loss. No patient had trophic foot lesions. Basal skin blood flow and maximal flare responses were not significantly different among the various subgroups (Control subjects, 49 +/- 7.4; asymptomatic diabetic patients, 29 +/- 4; patients with small fiber neuropathy and normal sensation, 34 +/- 6; with neuropathy and mild to moderate sensory loss, 29 +/- 4.8; and with neuropathy and severe sensory loss, 35 +/- 5 ml/100 gm, for flare response, respectively). Flare responses lower than the lowest found in control subjects occurred in 5 of 21 asymptomatic diabetic patients, 4 of 15 patients with small fiber neuropathy and normal sensation, 5 of 19 with neuropathy and mild to moderate sensory loss, and 1 of 7 with neuropathy and severe sensory loss. 
Idiopathic gastroparesis in patients with unexplained nausea and vomiting. Nausea and vomiting are symptoms sometimes associated with motor dysfunction. We compared a group of young patients suffering from chronic nausea and/or vomiting and normal upper gastrointestinal x-ray series with a control group. The members of both groups underwent isotopic examinations of their stomachs. The aim of the study was to find a simple method of checking the stomach and proving a motor dysfunction in a group of patients with chronic, inexplicable nausea and vomiting. Patients and controls fasted for at least 6 hr were given 0.5 mCI of [99mTc] diethylene triaminopentaacetic acid orally in 150 cc milk with 50 g cornflakes. A time-activity curve was obtained and radioactivity over the stomach was recorded exponentially. The parameter of the T1/2 emptying time was used. In normal controls T1/2 emptying time ranged from 18 to 26 min. Twenty-five symptomatic patients were examined, three of whom achieved normal values, but 22 patients showed pathologic results ranging from 36 to 184 min. In patients with chronic nausea and/or vomiting an isotopic examination of the stomach may provide a simple and rapid diagnostic method of evaluation. 
Interrelationship between coagulant activity and tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) system in acute ischaemic heart disease. Possible role of the endothelium. Patients with unstable angina pectoris (UAP; n = 20) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI; n = 34) were studied in the acute phase of ischaemic heart disease. We found significantly higher levels of thrombin-antithrombin-III (TAT) complexes, lower levels of systemic tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity, and higher levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) activity in the AMI patients compared to the UAP patients. In contrast to these specific changes, general acute phase reactants such as C-reactive protein, fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor did not differ significantly between the two groups. Studies of the relationship between coagulation (TAT-complexes) and fibrinolysis data revealed a significant positive correlation between plasma antigen concentrations of TAT-complexes and t-PA (P less than 0.02), and between TAT-complexes and PAI-I (P less than 0.002). These observations indicate a common pathophysiological mechanism underlying the changes in coagulation and fibrinolysis, suggesting that coagulation activity and t-PA-related fibrinolysis are interrelated processes in vivo, and probably take place at the level of the endothelial cell. 
Spike voltage topography identifies two types of frontotemporal epileptic foci. We characterized voltage topography of frontotemporal EEG spikes in 24 patients with complex partial seizures and identified two distinct patterns. "Type 1" spikes possessed a "dipolar" field with a negative region over the inferolateral temporal scalp and a positive region over the contralateral, centroparietal scalp. "Type 2" spikes showed only a broad, frontotemporal negative field. One or the other spike type predominated in all but two patients. Correlations with clinical data and intracranial EEG suggest that type 2 spikes arise from temporal or frontal neocortex, while type 1 spikes involve mesial temporal structures as well as lateral cortex. 
Management of chiasmal and hypothalamic gliomas of infancy and childhood with chemotherapy. Between March, 1983, and February, 1989, 19 infants or children with chiasmal/hypothalamic gliomas were treated with chemotherapy after either surgical or radiological diagnosis. The patients ranged in age from 15 weeks to 15.6 years (median 3.2 years) at the start of therapy. Twelve patients were treated immediately after diagnosis because of progressive symptoms, and seven received chemotherapy after either radiographic progression or clinical deterioration, including progressive visual loss or intracranial hypertension. Based on biopsy results, seven of these tumors were classified as juvenile pilocytic astrocytomas, two as astrocytomas, two as highly anaplastic astrocytomas, and one as a subependymal giant-cell astrocytoma. There was associated neurofibromatosis in four patients. The two initial patients were treated with either actinomycin D and vincristine or 5-fluorouracil, hydroxyurea, and 6-thioguanine. The remaining patients received nitrosourea-based therapy; 15 evaluable patients were treated with a five-drug regimen that included 6-thioguanine, procarbazine, dibromodulcitol, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU), and vincristine and one received 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and 5-fluorouracil. Fifteen of the 18 evaluable patients initially managed with chemotherapy either responded to therapy or their condition stabilized. Median time to tumor progression has not been reached at a median follow-up period of 79 weeks (range 6.6 to 303 weeks), and no tumor-related death has occurred with a median follow-up period of 79 weeks (range 18 to 322 weeks) from the initiation of therapy. The four patients who failed therapy or whose disease progressed after chemotherapy were treated satisfactorily with radiation therapy. Initial improvement or stabilization of visual function was obtained in 16 patients. Endocrine function remained stable in all patients during treatment, although three patients required pharmacological treatment for endocrinopathy that was present at diagnosis. These preliminary results suggest that nitrosourea-based cytotoxic regimens are useful for the initial treatment of children with chiasmal/hypothalamic gliomas, and allow potentially harmful radiation therapy to be deferred until progression of disease. 
Acute stimulation of renin secretion changes the multiple form profile of active plasma renin. Active renin is composed of multiple forms with variable isoelectric points. In this study, the relative proportions of five major active renin forms in human peripheral venous plasma were compared before and 2 h after stimulation of renin secretion with both converting enzyme inhibition (quinapril) and upright posture in five patients with essential hypertension. The five major active renin forms were separated by shallow gradient isoelectric focusing and quantitated by radioimmunoassay of generated angiotensin I. Plasma renin activity increased from 1.2 to 5.1 ng AI/mL/h (P less than .05). This was accompanied by a significant increase in the proportions of the two most basic renin forms and a significant decrease in the proportion of the most acidic form in venous plasma. Although the mechanism cannot be determined from this study, the altered renin form profile observed could have resulted from preferential renal secretion and/or altered hepatic extraction of the more basic forms. An altered renin form profile in response to acute stimulation has important physiologic implications. Since the relatively basic renin forms are preferentially degraded they possess shorter half-lives. Additionally, the multiple forms of active renin may be functionally heterogenous. Thus, acute stimulation of renin secretion may result in circulating renin with a shorter duration of action and different functional effects than renin released under steady state conditions. 
Detection of tissue injury after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy of gallstones. We evaluated seven patients undergoing gallstone lithotripsy for evidence of hepatic or renal trauma after each of 10 lithotripsy treatments. Postlithotripsy magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and sonography showed no evidence of hepatic or renal injury as compared with baseline studies. Four treatments resulted in sonographic evidence of gaseous hepatic microbubbles (analogous to "the bends") due to cavitation effects of the shockwaves. Three of these four treatments produced serum glutamicoxaloacetic transaminase and -pyruvic transaminase elevation. One patient had microscopic hematuria. Minimal tissue damage results from gallstone lithotripsy. MRI and ultrasound, performed after lithotripsy, appear to be less sensitive than transaminasemia in detecting this low-grade injury. 
Noncemented porous-coated anatomic total hip arthroplasty. In 1984, as an alternate to the acrylic fixation of the components of total hip arthroplasty, the use of an uncemented porous-coated anatomic (PCA) hip system with a beaded porous coating to achieve biologic fixation was initiated. Since then, 44 patients with cementless acetabular components and 35 patients with cementless femoral components have been followed for a minimum of 24 months and an average of 37 months. Harris hip scores averaged 90.5 at most recent follow-up intervals. No reoperations were necessary for failures of fixation or change in position of the acetabular component. Ominous roentgenographic signs such as progressive bead shedding, progressive radiolucencies, or progressive component migration have not occurred. Two femoral component revisions have been necessary: one for intractable pain and one for pain and roentgenographic loosening. Although thigh pain has been prevalent (20%), all patients have been accommodated and have retained stable hip scores. Progressive radiolucencies and progressive implant subsidence have been rare occurrences. The authors continue to use the cementless acetabular component in all cases of total hip arthroplasty in which initial stability can be obtained. It is their preference to cement the femoral component in patients over 65 or when initial stability cannot be achieved. 
Aortic dissection resulting from tear of transverse arch: is concomitant arch repair warranted? Forty-seven patients with aortic dissection resulting from a primary tear located in the transverse aortic arch underwent surgical treatment. Twenty-six patients had acute type A, 7 had acute type B, 7 had chronic type A, and 7 had chronic type B aortic dissections. Of the 33 patients with acute dissections, 11 (7 acute type A and 4 acute type B) underwent concomitant arch repair with an operative (less than or equal to 30 days) mortality rate of 55% (35% to 73%, +/- 1 asymmetric 70% confidence limit) (2 of 7 acute type A and 4 of 4 acute type B). Concomitant arch repair was omitted in 22 patients with acute dissections (19 acute type A and 3 acute type B); the operative mortality rate was 41% (29% to 54%) (7 of 19 acute type A and 2 of 3 acute type B) (p = not significant versus arch repair). The overall survival rate for those with arch repair was 45% +/- 15% (+/- 1 standard error of the estimate) at 4 years, compared with 43% +/- 11% for patients without arch repair (p = not significant). Considering the type of dissection, the 4-year survival estimate for patients with acute type A dissections who underwent arch repair (5 hemiarch and 2 total arch) was 71% +/- 17% (versus 44% +/- 12% for acute type A patients without arch repair). There were no survivors among the 4 patients with acute type B dissections who had an arch repair (1 hemiarch and 3 total arch), whereas patients with acute type B dissections who did not undergo concomitant arch repair had a 4-year survival estimate of 33% +/- 27% (p = not significant versus arch repair). Four other patients with acute type B dissections resulting from an arch tear were managed medically and tended to have a slightly better prognosis (2-year survival estimate of 75% +/- 22% versus 14% +/- 13% for all surgically treated acute type B patients), but again this difference was not statistically significant. Multivariate analysis of the 47 surgical patients revealed that advanced age (p = 0.0008), preoperative dissection complications (p = 0.02), and other coexistent medical problems (p = 0.03) were the only significant, independent determinants of overall mortality. Initial arch repair was not a significant predictor. Nine percent (2/22) of patients with acute type A dissections who initially underwent isolated ascending aortic replacement required subsequent arch replacement; 1 died after reoperation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The failed ulnar nerve transposition. Etiology and treatment. Various procedures have been recommended for the treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome. Simple decompression in situ, medial epicondylectomy, subcutaneous transposition, intramuscular transposition, and submuscular transposition all have their advocates. The results of the surgical treatment for cubital tunnel syndrome are related to the severity of the compressive neuropathy at the time of diagnosis and to the adequate decompression of the nerve at all sites of potential compression at the time of surgical treatment. Fourteen patients who had previously undergone surgical treatment for cubital tunnel syndrome were evaluated because of persistent pain, paresthesia, numbness, and motor weakness. All patients had documented persistent compression of the ulnar nerve on clinical and electromyographic evaluation. The indication for repeat surgical exploration in all patients was unremitting pain despite nonoperative treatment. All patients had been treated by neurolysis and submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve as described by Learmonth. The causes of continued pain after initial surgery included retention of the medial intermuscular septum, dense perineural fibrosis of the nerve after intramuscular and subcutaneous transposition, adhesions of the nerve to the medial epicondylectomy site, and recurrent subluxation of the nerve over the medial epicondyle after subcutaneous transposition. Revision surgery was found to be highly successful for relief of pain and paresthesias; however, the recovery of motor function and return of sensibility were variable and unpredictable. 
C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency: three presentations [clinical conference] We have presented three patients representing three of the four reported forms of C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency. The C1INH deficiencies are in general distinguishable from each other and from other forms of angioedema by their complement patterns. The acquired C1INH deficiency must be part of the differential in patients without a family history of angioedema since it may precede the diagnosis of more serious medical conditions such as lymphoproliferative disorders. 
Value of electrocardiographic leads MCL1, MCL6 and other selected leads in the diagnosis of wide QRS complex tachycardia. To compare the modified precordial leads MCL1 and MCL6 with the conventional precordial leads V1 and V6 and assess the diagnostic accuracy of selected leads for continuous bedside electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring, 121 wide QRS complex tachycardias were recorded from 92 patients during cardiac electrophysiologic study. As ascertained from intracardiac recordings, 86 tachycardias were ventricular and 35 were supraventricular with aberrant conduction. Early or late peaking of the predominant QRS deflection in lead MCL6 or V6 proved valuable in diagnosing wide complex tachycardia. An interval of less than or equal to 50 ms from the onset of the QRS complex to the predominant peak (or nadir) indicated supraventricular tachycardia; an interval of greater than or equal to 70 ms indicated ventricular tachycardia. The QRS complexes in leads MCL1 and MCL6 were comparable to those in leads V1 and V6 during sinus rhythm. Significant discrepancies in QRS configuration occurred between the modified and conventional precordial leads during ventricular tachycardia, especially between leads MCL1 and V1; however. these differences did not affect diagnostic accuracy. A single MCL1, V1, MCL6 or V6 lead was equally valuable in the diagnosis of wide complex tachycardia and far superior to a single lead II. A combination of leads (MCL1 + MCL6), (V1 + V6), (V1 + I + aVF) or (V1 + V6 + I + aVF) was superior to a single lead or the routinely monitored lead V1 + II combination. 
A physiologic basis for the provision of fuel mixtures in normal and stressed patients. It has been suggested that lipid is a preferred fuel in stressed patients. We evaluated glucose oxidation in 20 patients (sepsis, cancer of the colon, multiple trauma, controls) while they received TPN (5.65 mg glucose/kg/min). Respiratory quotient (RQ) was measured by indirect calorimetry and the percent VCO2 arising from the oxidation of glucose was measured using [U-14C] glucose. Since RQs were 1.0 or greater in all patients, the nonprotein energy utilized by them was calculated to be derived completely from glucose. However, the kinetic data showed that glucose contributed only 55-60% of the VCO2. Protein oxidation contributed less than 20% of the VCO2, as calculated from urinary nitrogen. The difference must have been derived from fatty acid oxidation. The glucose turnover that was not oxidized was presumed to be converted to lipid at an RQ of 8.6. The net oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production from this overall distribution resulted in an RQ of about 1.0 with only 60% coming from glucose oxidation. Since all patients responded in the same manner, it appears that the proper ratio of glucose and lipid was dictated on a physiologic basis and not on the type of disease. 
Mucosal vascular stasis precedes loss of viability of endothelial cells in rat acetic acid colitis. The hypothesis that a significant reduction in colonic mucosal perfusion, and hence ischemic injury, precedes the development of mucosal ulceration and inflammation is tested in this report. The microcirculatory changes in the rat colonic mucosa within 1 hr of topical exposure to 10% acetic acid were assessed. Colonic mucosal blood flow signals measured by laser Doppler flowmetry were significantly reduced to 61 +/- 8, 52 +/- 10, and 37 +/- 13% (mean +/- SEM) of baseline values at 1 min, 4 min, and 10 min after the colonic mucosa was exposed to 10% acetic acid, respectively, but not in controls exposed to saline. After the start of application of 10% acetic acid (for 4 min), in vivo microscopy studies demonstrated that colonic mucosal ischemia (stasis of the red blood cells in the mucosal capillaries) occurred at 9 +/- 5 min (mean +/- SEM). Evidence of endothelial cell death (failure to exclude a fluorescent dye, propidium iodide, by endothelial cells) developed at 25 +/- 10 min (mean +/- SEM). These findings indicate that within minutes after contact of the colonic mucosa with 10% acetic acid, colonic mucosal ischemia develops, followed shortly by death of endothelial cells. The data do not establish a cause-and-effect relationship between the reductions in mucosal blood flow and loss of endothelial cell viability in response to acetic acid. Nevertheless, because these events occur at such an early time point, they may play a pathogenetic role in the development of the subsequent inflammatory and ulcerative changes in this animal model of colitis. Further studies to define the potential causal relationships between these parameters are warranted. 
Sternotomy infection: poor prediction by acute phase response and delayed hypersensitivity. Two hundred twenty-one consecutive adult cardiac surgical patients were examined prospectively for nutritional protein state, acute phase protein response, and delayed hypersensitivity reaction in an attempt to identify patients at high risk for the development of sternal wound infection, which occurred in 6 patients (2.7%). There was no significant correlation between preoperative nutritional protein concentrations (retinol-binding protein, prealbumin, and transferrin) and acute phase protein levels (C-reactive protein, alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, and complements B and C3), nor a statistically significant relationship between nutritional state or acute phase protein response and the development of sternal infection. Preoperative complement C3 levels were elevated, however, in 80.0% of those in whom sternal infections developed compared with 30.6% of those with well-healed wounds. Similarly, postoperative concentrations of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein were elevated in 80.0% of those in whom sternal infections developed compared with 28.6% of those with well-healed wounds. There was no correlation between delayed hypersensitivity and the risk of sternal infection, nor between preoperative nutritional protein and acute phase protein values. Seventy-three percent of patients were anergic on postoperative day 2. Stepwise logistic regression showed that age, body weight, preoperative intensive care unit stay, repeat median sternotomy, internal mammary artery grafting, postoperative hemorrhage, and postoperative cardiac arrest correlated with the development of sternal infection, whereas transfusion requirement, reexploration for bleeding, and the operation performed did not. We conclude that routine delayed hypersensitivity testing is of no value in predicting high-risk cardiac surgical patients when the anergy battery is placed on the preoperative day. Although statistically insignificant, possibly due to the small number of patients in whom sternal infection developed in this study (type II error), a larger study might find preoperative complement C3 and post-operative alpha 1-acid glycoprotein levels to be predictive of patients at risk for the development of sternal wound infection. The final logistic model for the predicted risk 2%) of sternal wound infection is: PREDSWC = exp(EQ)/1 + exp(EQ) where EQ = (0.38 x age) + (0.24 x weight) + (5.42 x preop ICU) + (4.39 x redo) + (7.14 x IMA) + (4.49 x hemorrhage) + (8.81 x arrest) - 62.72, and where preop ICU, redo, hemorrhage, and arrest are defined as yes (1) or no (0), IMA-is defined as 0, 1, or 2, age is in years, and weight is in kilograms. 
Short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection, tearing, etc. (SUNCT): III. Another Norwegian case. "SUNCT" is a recently reported head pain syndrome characterized by shortlasting, unilateral neuralgiform paroxysms with conjunctival injection and tearing, and to a lesser extent nasal secretion, and (subclinical) sweating. Another case--that of a 56 year old male--is reported herein. The attacks lasted 1/2-1 min. and occurred only infrequently, i.e. once or twice in 1-4 weeks, except for a week recently when there were up to 20 or more typical attacks per day, with the usual ipsilateral, autonomic accompaniments. Due to the benign nature and low frequency of attacks, the diagnosis would have been most difficult to establish prior to the occurrence of this shortlasting period with more marked symptoms. A variety of precipitation mechanisms were present, partly concerning the V 2-3 areas, partly concerning the neck. Precipitation mechanisms in "SUNCT" to some extent seem to differ from those in trigeminal neuralgia. It is remarkable that all four hitherto reported cases are males. 
Cor triatriatum dexter: recognition and percutaneous transluminal correction. Cor triatriatum dexter is a rare congenital anomaly in which an obstructive membrane is located in the right atrium. The detection usually occurs after the sequelae of systemic congestion, coagulopathy, and hepatic dysfunction have set in, leading up to a high surgical risk. A percutaneous balloon correction of cor triatriatum dexter in a patient with advanced right-sided congestive symptoms and hepatic dysfunction is presented. This efficacious method is an alternative to surgical correction and could be extended to the more common cor triatriatum sinistra. 
High-dose cytarabine for intensification of early therapy of childhood acute myeloid leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. In June 1984, the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) initiated a pilot study (8498) using high-dose cytarabine (HdA; 3 g/m2) for intensification of early therapy in childhood acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) (group I). Remission induction therapy consisted of two courses of daunorubicin, cytarabine (Ara-C), and thioguanine (DAT). Postremission therapy consisted of four sequential courses, each consisting of (1) four doses of HdA (HdA4) followed by asparaginase (L-Asp), (2) etoposide (VP) plus azacytidine (Az), (3) prednisone, vincristine, methotrexate, and mercaptopurine (POMP), and (4) Ara-C daily for 5 days by continuous infusion. Six doses of intrathecal Ara-C were given for CNS prophylaxis. In December 1986, the protocol was amended (group II) to substitute six doses of HdA (HdA6) for the second DAT (two + five) induction course; postinduction, a single course of HdA6 was given instead of four HdA/L-Asp courses, and the remainder of the therapy was unchanged. One hundred forty group I patients and 145 group II patients were assessable. The two groups were similar with regard to clinical prognostic groups. No significant differences were noted in the two groups with regard to remission induction (85% [SE = 2%] in each group), induction deaths (6.5% v 7.0%), or deaths in remission (one in each group). Cerebellar toxicity was reported in three patients in group II (with HdA6) but none in group I (HdA4). At present, patients who received HdA6 (group II) had higher event-free survival than patients in group I (EFS at 3 years, 34% [SE = 11%] v 29% [SE = 4%]), and disease-free survival (DFS at 3 years, 42% [SE = 14%] v 34% [SE = 4%]), but the differences were not statistically significant. In both groups, children less than 2 years and those with WBCs less than 100,000/microL had significantly better outcome (EFS of 55% [SE = 10%] and 36% [SE = 5%] at 3 years, respectively) than children greater than or equal to 2 years and those with WBCs greater than or equal to 100,000/microL (EFS of 27% [SE = 5%] and 20% [SE = 9%] at 3 years, respectively. 
Chronic cough in infants and children: an update. Cough is a symptom frequently encountered by the otolaryngologist--head and neck surgeon. Although most coughs are self limited, chronic cough often proves to be a frustrating problem. Seventy-two infants and children under age 16 with a normal chest radiogram have now been evaluated for chronic cough persisting for longer than 4 weeks. Cough-variant asthma was the most common cause of cough, followed by sinusitis, gastroesophageal reflux, aberrant innominate artery, psychogenic cough, and subglottic stenosis. Chronic cough is best managed by first following an individualized diagnostic protocol designed to determine the etiology of the cough. This is followed by specific therapy to treat the underlying disorder. Children with persistent cough and normal chest radiograph are best served when referred promptly for evaluation by an otolaryngologist when the primary physician's initial efforts at diagnosis and treatment are not effective. Endoscopy is underutilized in practice and its importance understated in the literature. It is particularly helpful in establishing a precise diagnosis in infants under 18 months of age. 
Failure of wild-type or a mutant form of protein kinase C-alpha to transform fibroblasts. A mutant form of the alpha-isoform of protein kinase C (PKC) was recently isolated from an ultraviolet radiation-induced murine fibrosarcoma cell line and reported to transform mouse BALB/c 3T3 fibroblasts on transfection. Four point mutations in the regulatory domain were assumed to be responsible for its oncogenicity and unusual preference for membrane localization. Here, we report that overexpression of the reported mutant PKC alpha complementary DNA in three fibroblast cell lines, including BALB/c 3T3, does not enable these cells to grow in soft agar or nude mice. In addition, this mutant PKC alpha form seems to be indistinguishable from the wild-type PKC alpha with respect to its dependence on cofactors, phorbol ester binding, subcellular distribution and its effects on growth and morphology. These results fail to confirm the previous study and indicate that overexpression of either the wild-type or the reported mutant form of PKC alpha does not transform rodent fibroblasts. 
The role of vaginal scan in measurement of endometrial thickness in postmenopausal women. Transvaginal ultrasound scanning was performed on 111 postmenopausal women. Of these women, 103 had postmenopausal bleeding, and eight were undergoing hysterectomy. Of the 103 women with bleeding, 93 had dilatation and curettage (D&C) and 10 patients were treated conservatively with a repeat scan in six months. A correlation of ultrasound findings and endometrial histopathology was possible in 94 patients. In 59 of these (63%) the endometrium was atrophic and the ultrasound endometrial thickness was 5 mm or less. In 29 (31%) patients the endometrial histology was abnormal and ultrasound endometrial thickness was greater than 5 mm. In six patients the endometrium was atrophic, but the ultrasonic endometrial thickness was apparently greater than 5 mm due to intracavity fluid. We suggest that an endometrial thickness of 5 mm is an appropriate cut-off level for conservative management of patients with postmenopausal bleeding, or in screening for endometrial carcinoma. 
Treatment of 813 zygoma-lateral orbital complex fractures. New aspects. A 10-year experience with surgical treatment of 813 zygomalateral orbital complex fractures is reviewed. Regardless of the type or severity of the fracture pattern, concomitant fractures of the orbital floor and rim were approached exclusively through the transconjunctival approach without a lateral canthotomy. The advantages of this approach compared with the subciliary access are the avoidance of a visible scar and markedly reduced incidence of postoperative lower eyelid complications such as ectropion and edema. Implants of lyophilized dura or cartilage and autogenous bone were used to reconstruct orbital floor defects. Malar asymmetry is a frequent complication of zygoma fractures resulting from inadequate three-dimensional reduction. Methods for accurate reduction and stabilization, indications for closed and open reduction, and management of the fractured infraorbital rim are emphasized. The indications for miniplates vs wire ligatures for the infraorbital rim are discussed. Long-term follow up and evaluation of the results with regard to the fracture pattern, complications, maxillary sinus dysfunction, and facial and orbital symmetry are presented. 
Prevention of portal hypertension and portosystemic shunts by early chronic administration of clonidine in conscious portal vein-stenosed rats. The hemodynamic effects, including mesenteric-systemic shunts of early chronic administration of clonidine, were studied in conscious, unrestrained, portal vein-stenosed rats. In rats receiving early chronic clonidine (600 micrograms.kg-1.day-1 by gavage), begun 3 days before portal vein stenosis and then administered continuously for 10 consecutive days, portal pressure (10.0 +/- 1.5 mm Hg) and degree of mesenteric-systemic shunts (58% +/- 25%) were significantly lower than in the placebo group (15.2 +/- 1.5 mm Hg and 83% +/- 7%, respectively). The effects were observed either 2 to 3 hr or 18 to 24 hr after the last dose of clonidine. In rats receiving clonidine continuously for 5 days, starting 5 days after portal vein stenosis, portal pressure (11.0 +/- 1.3 mm Hg) was significantly lower than in the placebo group, but mesenteric-systemic shunts (82% +/- 8%) were not significantly different. In rats receiving a single oral dose of clonidine (600 micrograms/kg) 10 days after portal vein stenosis, portal pressure (11.8 +/- 2.1 mm Hg), measured 2 to 3 hr after clonidine administration, was significantly lower than in the placebo group. Mesenteric-systemic shunts (83% +/- 8%), however, were not significantly different from the placebo group. In addition, 18 to 24 hr after a single dose of clonidine, hemodynamic values returned to basal conditions. We also demonstrated that chronic clonidine administration begun before portal vein stenosis can reduce the initial increase in portal pressure after this procedure. We concluded that early chronic clonidine administration reduces the severity of portal hypertension and the development of portosystemic shunts in portal vein-stenosed rats. 
Extramedullary blast crisis in chronic myelogenous leukemia. Demonstration of T-cell lineage and Philadelphia chromosome in a paraspinal tumor. A case of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) with penetrance of the Ph1 molecular alteration into the T-cell lineage of a paraspinal tumor is reported. The T-cell nature of the paraspinal tumor was documented by immunochemical study and genotyping. The Philadelphia chromosome was also detected by genotyping in the same tumor cell population. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first case of extramedullary T-cell blast crisis in CML demonstrated in an extranodal tumor. The clinical significance of detecting extramedullary blast crisis, and the theories for the scarcity of T-cell transformation in CML are discussed. 
An unknown syndrome of nose deformity, oxycephaly, aplasia of the nasolacrimal ducts, and symmetrical cyst formation on the upper lip in siblings: craniorhiny. An unknown syndrome of oxycephaly, nose deformity, hair growth on the skin at the base of the nose, symmetrical cyst formation on the upper lip, and aplasia of the nasolacrimal ducts in a mother and her three children is presented. This syndrome showed autosomal dominant inheritance. All three children were operated on. Oxycephaly and lip deformity in two of the children and hypertelorism that existed in addition to the other anomalies in the third were all corrected. All corrective surgery was performed during a single session for each child. 
Phrenic nerve injury in infants and children undergoing cardiac surgery. Fifty infants and 50 children less than 15 years undergoing palliative or corrective cardiac surgery in the Brompton Hospital between March and October 1988 had direct percutaneous stimulation of the phrenic nerve before and after operation. Ten patients, six under 1 year of age and four over, developed unilateral phrenic nerve injury. In those aged less than 1 year recovery after operation was prolonged because their diaphragmatic palsy made it difficult to wean them from the ventilator. Older children had symptoms but their rate of recovery did not seem to be affected by the phrenic nerve injury. Phrenic nerve damage was no more frequent after a lateral thoracotomy than after a median sternotomy. There was no significant association with the type of operation performed, the experience of the surgeon, the use of bypass or topical ice, the duration of bypass, circulatory arrest or aortic cross clamping, or the age of the patient at the time of operation. In patients who had cardiopulmonary bypass the risk of injury was significantly higher in those who had undergone previous operation. The 10% frequency of phrenic nerve injury determined in this prospective study was higher than that seen in earlier retrospective reports. Direct percutaneous stimulation of the phrenic nerve can be used at the bedside in infants and children to facilitate early and accurate diagnosis of phrenic nerve palsy, and the results may influence early management. 
Benefits of monitoring plasma levodopa in Parkinson's disease patients with drug-induced chorea. We studied the temporal patterns of chorea and plasma levodopa profiles in 30 patients with Parkinson's disease whose motor fluctuations were difficult to characterize and treat on the basis of observation alone. We were able to determine whether chorea was associated with high levodopa concentrations or low levodopa concentrations or both. We found the following patterns of levodopa-associated chorea: chorea due to inadequate levodopa levels, chorea due to biphasic levodopa absorption, chorea associated with either rapid or slow levodopa absorption, and chorea due to long-duration levodopa absorption mimicking a sustained-release preparation. Seven patients benefited after their dosing schedules were rearranged as a result of information gained from monitoring. We conclude that any patient with levodopa-associated chorea who cannot be regulated on the basis of observation alone should be studied with simultaneous plasma levodopa measurements and clinical monitoring to detect an unusual plasma levodopa pattern that may be improved by adjustment of dosing schedule. 
Acute nonhemodynamic pulmonary edema with nifedipine in primary pulmonary hypertension. A 34-year-old man with primary pulmonary hypertension developed acute nonhemodynamic pulmonary edema after a loading dose of nifedipine. Changes of the vascular permeability induced by the drug acting on the arteriolar wall of the capillary system could be an explanation. 
Measurement of individual plasma angiotensins in normal pregnancy and pregnancy-induced hypertension. Individual angiotensin peptides were measured by a high pressure liquid chromatography-RIA (HPLC-RIA) technique in the plasma of 20 nonpregnant women, 17 women with normal pregnancy, and 49 with pregnancy-induced hypertension. Immunoreactive angiotensin-II (ANG-II) consisted mainly of ANG-(1-8) octapeptide (greater than 65%), variable proportions (15-25%) of ANG-(4-8) pentapeptide, and small to negligible proportions of ANG-(2-8) heptapeptide and ANG-(3-8) hexapeptide. Levels of ANG-(1-8) were significantly higher in women with normal pregnancy than in both nonpregnant women (P less than 0.0006) and women with pregnancy-induced hypertension (P less than 0.008); in the latter, levels were lower with increasing severity of disease. Levels of ANG-(4-8) were higher in women with normal pregnancy than in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension or nonpregnant women. When expressed as a proportion of ANG-(1-8) levels, however, ANG-(4-8) levels were not higher in normal pregnancy than in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension or nonpregnant women. It is concluded that the well known increase in ANG-II levels in normal pregnancy relates predominantly to the active ANG-(1-8) octapeptide and to a far lesser extent to the smaller ANG peptides. Similarly, lower ANG-II levels in pregnancy-induced hypertension relate predominantly to lower ANG-(1-8) levels. 
Abnormal most-rapid isometric contractions in patients with Parkinson's disease. Fast isometric elbow flexor muscle contractions of specified amplitude in six normal subjects were compared with those of 11 patients with Parkinson's disease. Despite treatment, all patients exhibited deficits in this motor task. Three patients were able to produce rapid force pulses with normal contraction times, but the variability of their force responses was increased in comparison with the highly stereotyped responses produced by normal subjects. The other eight patients had prolonged contraction times and segmentation of the force profiles. The integrated area of the first agonist EMG burst and the rate of development of force (dF/dt) were less at any target level than what was needed to produce a fast response. The area of the EMG burst, however, did increase with target amplitude, and the relative increase of dF/dt, with target amplitude, was normal. It is concluded that the motor program subserving fast muscle contraction is preserved in Parkinson's disease, but its execution is characterised by improper scaling of motor output. 
Dental chair apoplexy. We have reported two cases of intracranial bleeding shortly after a dental procedure. We argue that administration of hypochlorite in gum debridement, application of dental cement, or mechanical stimulation of the alveolar branches of the trigeminal nerve at the pulp may not only result in acute systemic hypertension, but also in the release of vasodilatory neurotransmitters. The combination of a local increase in intracerebral blood flow and simultaneously developing systemic hypertension in an occasional patient may lead to intracranial hemorrhage. 
Epidemiological evidence of the association between lichen planus and two immune-related diseases. Alopecia areata and ulcerative colitis. Gruppo Italiano Studi Epidemiologici in Dermatologia. Between September 1986 and February 1988, a case-control study involving 27 Italian dermatological centers collaborating in the Gruppo Italiano Studi Epidemiologici in Dermatologia was conducted, concerning the relationship between history of several medical conditions and exposures to drugs and the risk of lichen planus. The cases were all consecutive patients with a new diagnosis of lichen planus, and the controls were patients under dermatological care observed under the same conditions. A total of 711 cases and 1395 controls met the admission criteria and were interviewed by trained investigators. Patients with histories of alopecia areata were found to be at risk for lichen planus (relative risk = 2.7; 95% confidence interval, 1.1 to 6.5). Five patients (0.7%) in the group with lichen planus had a history of ulcerative colitis, while none of the controls had this disease. The risk of lichen planus was also increased in patients with a history of chronic active hepatitis, but this increase was not statistically significant (relative risk = 4.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.7 to 29.4). 
Bilateral symmetrical striopallidodentate calcification associated with pseudohypoparathyroidism demonstrated in a patient with cerebellar astrocytoma. A case of calcification in the striopallidodentate system associated with pseudohypoparathyroidism, clinically manifested after operation for a cystic astrocytoma of the cerebellar vermis, is reported. Bilateral symmetrical striopallidodentate calcification accompanying a disturbance in calcium metabolism is rare. Only a few cases have been described previously in the literature, of which only six were accompanied by pseudohypoparathyroidism. The importance of identifying hypoparathyroidism, especially pseudohypoparathyroidism, early in the course of investigation is discussed. 
Use of echocardiography for patient management in chronic ischemic heart disease. Myocardial ischemia causes regional myocardial contractile and relaxation abnormalities. The extent of ischemia is determined by the distribution and severity of coronary artery stenoses. In coronary heart disease, two powerful predictors of prognosis are the coronary anatomy and ventricular function. Management in coronary heart disease is directed by accurate diagnosis and individualized objectives. Echocardiography at rest and exercise, combined with Doppler and color flow imaging, are properly applied to the differential diagnosis of common clinical syndromes in ischemic heart disease, the identification of the proximal coronary arteries, and the effects of ischemia and prior infarction. Subsequent use of coronary arteriography partially depends on the philosophy regarding the applicability of coronary surgery or angioplasty in an individual patient. Prediction of multivessel, left main, or proximal left anterior descending coronary artery disease by extensive wall motion abnormalities or an abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction may direct the clinician to coronary arteriography to select among coronary surgery, angioplasty, or medical management. 
Alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance as an aid in the management of patients with celiac disease. One hundred and thirty-two different intestinal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance tests were performed in 48 untreated adult celiac patients, 64 patients taking a gluten-free diet, and 20 adult healthy controls. In the untreated group, 95% of patients had enteric protein loss with values higher than the upper limit of normality (mean +/- 2 SD). In the treated group of patients, only 22% had abnormal levels of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance. Sixteen patients who had elevated clearance before treatment had decreased clearance after an average of 7.4 months on a gluten-free diet. There was a significant relation (p less than 0.05) between the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and the degree of alteration of the jejunal histological structure. We conclude that enteric protein loss is a very frequent finding in celiac patients and the measurement of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance may be a reliable method to evaluate the activity of the disease and useful in following the efficacy of treatment. 
Pleomorphic fibroma of skin. A case report and immunohistochemical study. An immunohistochemical study of a clinically benin but cytologically atypical mesenchymal lesion of the skin is presented. This lesion has been previously reported as pleomorphic fibroma and was shown to follow a benign course with a potential for local recurrence. These lesions contain occasional markedly atypical enlarged spindle cells with anaplastic-appearing nuclei. Nonmirror image mitotic figures may be present. Histogenesis of this neoplasm remains controversial with a fibroblastic origin being favored by previous authors. Our immunohistochemical findings would support this conclusion. 
Autosomal dominant deletions of the mitochondrial genome in a case of progressive encephalomyopathy. Multiple deletions of the mitochondrial genome were found in a family in which the proband had ataxia and ketoacidotic comas. A progressive multiorgan involvement appeared in the course of the disease, and histopathological investigation demonstrated mitochondrial myopathy features with ragged red fibers. A defect of oxidative phosphorylation was found in both skeletal muscle and lymphocytes. It is surprising that various mtDNA deletions were detected both in the proband and in his healthy mother and maternal aunt but not in the rest of the maternal progeny. All the deletions were located between Cox II and cytochrome b genes, and short (4-5 bp) repeated sequences were consistently present at the boundaries of the rearrangements in different tissues. Therefore, the deletions appear not to be transmitted per se but to be inherited in a Mendelian manner, being possibly dominant. Both the Mendelian inheritance of the trait and the variety of the deletions in carriers suggest that a nuclearly encoded factor(s) might be involved in the triggering of the deletions. However, the presence of the rearrangements in healthy individuals raises the question of whether mtDNA deletions actually cause the clinical expression of the disease. 
Relationship between perceived self-control of pain, pain description and functioning. Recent research has shown an association between preferred coping style and pain report. The present study explores in a sample of 51 patients with chronic pain of myofascial origin the relationship between a dispositional measure of coping, the internality dimension of the Pain Locus of Control Scale (PLOC), and ratings of pain intensity, frequency, and pain-related behavioral functioning. Patients above the median on the internality dimension of the PLOC reported their pain as less intense and frequent than those below the median. No differences were noted on the behavioral functioning measures. Results are consistent with previous studies and indicate an association between ability to control pain and variations in magnitude and periodicity of pain. The clinical implication of the data is that strategies which provide reduction in pain intensity and frequency might be expected to result in increased perception of personal control of pain. 
Spectrum of intestinal failure in a specialised unit. 300 consecutive admissions over 7 years to a purpose-built intestinal failure unit are reviewed. The commonest underlying condition was Crohn's disease (42%), and the commonest complication precipitating admission was intestinal fistula (42%). Total parenteral nutrition was used in 85% and surgery in 50%. A multidisciplinary approach to management gave a high success rate--90% of patients were discharged from hospital, although nearly 25% needed home parental nutrition. These results suggest that chronic intestinal failure should be managed in specialised units in the same manner as other types of organ failure. 
The dopamine D2 receptor locus as a modifying gene in neuropsychiatric disorders OBJECTIVE.--The A1 allele of the Taq I polymorphism of the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) gene has been earlier reported to occur in 69% of alcoholics, compared with 20% of controls. Other research has reported no significant difference in the prevalence of the A1 allele in alcoholics vs controls and no evidence that the DRD2 gene was linked to alcoholism. We hypothesized that these seemingly conflicting results might be because increases in the prevalence of the A1 allele may not be specific to alcoholism. Thus, we examined other disorders frequently associated with alcoholism or those believed to involve defects in dopaminergic neurotransmission. DESIGN.--Case comparison study. To minimize the effect of racial differences in gene frequencies, the study was restricted to non-Hispanic whites. SETTING.--Ambulatory and hospitalized patients. RESULTS.--Among all known controls (n = 314), 77 (24.5%) carried the A1 allele. Of the 69 controls known not to be alcoholics, 10 (14.5%) carried the A1 allele. The prevalence of the A1 allele was significantly increased in patients with Tourette's syndrome (44.9%, n = 147), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (46.2%, n = 104), autism (54.5%, n = 33), alcoholism (42.3%, n = 104), and posttraumatic stress disorder (45.7%, n = 35). After correction for multiple comparisons (requiring P less than .0009 for significance), all remained significant except posttraumatic stress disorder. The prevalence of the A1 allele was not significantly increased in patients with depression, panic attacks, Parkinson's disease, or obesity. The prevalence of the A1 allele in drug addiction and schizophrenia was only significant when compared with that of controls who were not alcoholics, and no correction was made for multiple comparisons. CONCLUSION.--These results suggest the A1 allele of the DRD2 gene is associated with a number of behavior disorders in which it may act as a modifying gene rather than as the primary etiological agent. 
Human abdominal aortic aneurysms. Immunophenotypic analysis suggesting an immune-mediated response. Cellular immunity may play a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. In this report the potential role of these cells in the formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms by immunohistochemistry was investigated. Aortic tissues from 32 patients were examined: 4 normal aortas, 6 aortas with occlusive atherosclerotic disease, 17 abdominal aortic aneurysms, and 5 inflammatory abdominal aneurysms. Using monoclonal anti-CD3 (T cells), anti-CD19 (B cells), anti-CD11c (macrophages), anti-CD4 (T helper cells), and anti-CD8 (T suppressor cells), several distinctions among these groups were found. The amount of inflammatory cell infiltrate was as follows: inflammatory aneurysms more than abdominal aortic aneurysms more than occlusive aortas more than normal aortas. CD3-positive T lymphocytes rarely were found in the adventitia of normal or occlusive aortas. In contrast, abdominal aortic aneurysms and inflammatory aneurysms exhibited most of the CD3-positive infiltrates in the adventitia. CD19-positive B lymphocytes were present mainly in the adventitia of all pathologic tissues. The CD4-positive:CD8-positive ratio was greater in abdominal aortic aneurysms and inflammatory aneurysms than in the other groups, both in the adventitia and in the media of the aortas. CD11c-positive macrophages were present throughout the diseased tissues, often surrounded by lymphoid aggregates; the greatest numbers of macrophages were found in the inflammatory aneurysm group. Our data suggests that the aneurysmal disease may progress from occlusive disease and is accompanied by an increase in chronic inflammatory cells as well as a redistribution of these cell types. Therefore it is suggested that aneurysmal disease may represent an immune-mediated event. 
Pulse sounds and measurement of diastolic blood pressure in children. Controversy exists over the value of measuring diastolic blood pressure (BP) in children, and over whether this should be measured at Korotkoff's fourth phase (K4) or fifth phase (K5) of pulse sounds. We measured diastolic BP in 3012 randomly selected Finnish children aged 6-18 years in 1980, and in 2885 of the same individuals in 1983 and 2500 in 1986. BP was measured with a standard mercury sphygmomanometer in 1980 and 1983, and with a random-zero sphygmomanometer in 1986. K4 was consistently absent in 187 individuals (3.2%) in 1980 and 1983, and in 155 individuals (6.2%) in 1986. K5 was absent in only 34 individuals (0.6%) in 1980/83 and 5 (0.2%) in 1986. The difference between mean K4 and K5 diastolic BP varied from 6.5 to 9.2 mm Hg depending upon age. K4 and K5 BPs showed good correlation in all age groups. Reliable and repeatable BP measurements in all age groups of children are best achieved with K5 as the indicator of diastolic BP. 
Effects of diclofenac sodium on intestinal anastomotic healing. Experimental study on the small intestine of rabbits. To study the possible effects of diclofenac sodium on intestinal anastomoses, 48 rabbits were submitted to surgery consisting of two single-layer ileal anastomoses performed with separate propylene 5-0 sutures. The animals were divided at random into two groups (test and control). The animals in the test group were given intramuscular injections of diclofenac sodium at the dose of 3 mg/kg body weight at 24-hour intervals, and the control animals were given injections of an identical amount of 0.9 percent saline. The animals were sacrificed on the 3rd, 7th, and 14th postoperative days for macroscopic evaluation of the peritoneal cavity and of the anastomoses, tensile strength measurement, hydroxyproline determination, and histopathologic examination. The following results were observed: anastomotic dehiscence followed by peritonitis and death in five test animals (20.83 percent) and no control animals; decreased anastomotic tensile strength on the 7th day in test animals (P less than 0.05); delayed acute inflammatory response and onset of fibroblast proliferation in the test group; and similar hydroxyproline levels in both groups. On the basis of the results obtained, we conclude that diclofenac sodium had a negative effect on intestinal anastomotic healing. 
Effect of the degree of effort on exercise echocardiography for the detection of restenosis after coronary artery angioplasty. To determine whether the accuracy of exercise echocardiography is affected by the degree of effort during exercise, we examined 101 patients who had 6 months earlier undergone successful coronary artery angioplasty, with resting and immediate postexercise echocardiography and same-day coronary angiography. A positive exercise echocardiographic response was defined as the development of a new or worsening wall motion abnormality postexercise, compared with resting wall motion. Significant coronary disease (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) was present in 48 patients, 38 of whom had single-vessel disease and 10 of whom had two-vessel disease. Exercise echocardiography correctly identified 32 patients with significant disease (sensitivity 67%) and 44 patients without significant disease (specificity 83%). The effect of the degree of exercise effort on the sensitivity and specificity of the test was evaluated by three criteria; (1) the percentage of maximum predicted heart rate (MHR), (2) the duration of exercise (DUR), and (3) the double product (DP). To determine the influence of the degree of effort upon sensitivity and specificity, the effort criteria were compared between patients with true positive (TP) tests to those with false negative tests (FN), and in patients with true negative (TN) tests compared with those with false positive (FP) tests. No significant differences were detected in MHR, DUR, or DP between TP versus FN patients or between TN versus FP patients. These results indicate that for symptom-limited exercise echocardiography in postangioplasty patients, neither sensitivity nor specificity is significantly affected by the degree of effort during exercise. 
Quantitative estimation of infarct size by simultaneous dual radionuclide single photon emission computed tomography: comparison with peak serum creatine kinase activity. To test the hypothesis that simultaneous dual energy single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with technetium-99m (99mTc) pyrophosphate and thallium-201 (201TI) can provide an accurate estimate of the size of myocardial infarction and to assess the correlation between infarct size and peak serum creatine kinase activity, 165 patients with acute myocardial infarction underwent SPECT 3.2 +/- 1.3 (SD) days after the onset of acute myocardial infarction. In the present study, the difference in the intensity of 99mTc-pyrophosphate accumulation was assumed to be attributable to difference in the volume of infarcted myocardium, and the infarct volume was corrected by the ratio of the myocardial activity to the osseous activity to quantify the intensity of 99mTc-pyrophosphate accumulation. The correlation of measured infarct volume with peak serum creatine kinase activity was significant (r = 0.60, p less than 0.01). There was also a significant linear correlation between the corrected infarct volume and peak serum creatine kinase activity (r = 0.71, p less than 0.01). Subgroup analysis showed a high correlation between corrected volume and peak creatine kinase activity in patients with anterior infarctions (r = 0.75, p less than 0.01) but a poor correlation in patients with inferior or posterior infarctions (r = 0.50, p less than 0.01). In both the early reperfusion and the no reperfusion groups, a good correlation was found between corrected infarct volume and peak serum creatine kinase activity (r = 0.76 and r = 0.76, respectively; p less than 0.01). 
Can iodine-131 whole-body scan be replaced by thyroglobulin measurement in the post-surgical follow-up of differentiated thyroid carcinoma? This study compared serum thyroglobulin measurement and whole-body scans in the post-surgical follow-up of patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Thyroglobulin levels were measured in 61 patients receiving L-thyroxine therapy after thyroidectomy, and again after suspension of therapy, before performing a whole-body scan with iodine-131. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of thyroglobulin levels, measured during L-thyroxine therapy, for diagnosis of tumor residue or metastases were then calculated and compared with results obtained by diagnostic whole-body scanning. Our data show that neither thyroglobulin levels nor whole-body scans alone can discriminate between patients with or without metastases. Sensitivity reached 95.7%, specificity 100%, and accuracy 96.7% if results of both procedures were also taken into consideration. We conclude that in the management and follow-up of patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma both parameters need to be evaluated. 
Effect of age on fever response to recombinant tumor necrosis factor alpha in a murine model. Certain elderly humans show a blunted fever response to infection. A study was designed using a murine model to assess the influence of age on the febrile response to the endogenous pyrogen, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha). Twenty (10 young: 4-6 months; 10 old: 24-28 months) BALB/c mice were injected with 50 ng of TNF alpha into the intraperitoneal space; the experiments were repeated one week later with 100 ng TNF alpha. Control animals received intraperitoneal injections of pyrogen-free phosphate buffered saline. Temperatures were measured rectally at baseline and at 10-minute intervals for 90 minutes post-injection using a thermistor probe and temperature gauge. In the majority of the time intervals following injection, the mean temperature changes of young mice were significantly higher than old mice for both 50 ng and 100 ng doses of TNF alpha. Similarly, peak temperature changes from baseline were consistently higher in young animals following injection of TNF alpha. Moreover, the peak temperature changes in young mice after 50 ng TNF alpha injection were significantly higher than those in old mice following a 100 ng injection of TNF alpha. These findings confirm that (a) TNF alpha has a role in the pathogenesis of fever; (b) aging alters significantly the febrile response; and (c) a mechanism of this age-related blunted febrile response may involve TNF alpha. 
Juvenile hyaline fibromatosis: a report of two severe cases. Two unrelated children with a severe form of juvenile hyaline fibromatosis are described. In addition to painful flexion contractures of all of the large joints, oral and skin lesions, and typical radiologic appearance of osteolytic defects, both girls had marked growth retardation and recurrent infections. Both children died in early infancy of overwhelming infection. 
The erythrocyte-type glucose transporter in blood vessels of primary and metastatic brain tumors. We previously demonstrated that brain microvessels have a high density of the erythrocyte-type glucose transporter and suggested this could be used as a marker of cells with "occluding" junctions. Now, we have studied by immunocytochemistry the tissue distribution of the glucose transporter in a variety of primary and metastatic human brain tumors with a monoclonal antibody to the glucose transporter of human erythrocytes. Microvessels in normal brain tissue distant from the tumor, and in brain surrounding the tumor, immunostained strongly for the glucose transporter. Microvessels in primary and metastatic tumors, however, lacked glucose transporter immunoreactivity. Only in the relatively benign juvenile cerebellar astrocytomas was glucose transporter immunoreactivity retained in some of the tumor microvessels. Because a high glucose transporter density is a marker of vessels with barrier properties, our results indicate that the vast majority of brain tumor microvessels do nc, have an intact blood-brain barrier. 
Necrotizing myopathy with pipestem capillaries, microvascular deposition of the complement membrane attack complex (MAC), and minimal cellular infiltration. Three adult patients, two with undifferentiated connective tissue disease and one with carcinoma, had a distinctive pathologic reaction pattern consisting of necrotizing myopathy, minimal cellular infiltration, and a microangiopathy with thick "pipestem" vessels and microvascular deposits of complement membrane attack complex. Quantitative analysis revealed focal capillary depletion. This pattern represents an immune-mediated microangiopathy and is distinct from that observed in other inflammatory myopathies. 
Primary meningeal B lymphoma presenting as a subacute ascending polyradiculoneuropathy. A subacute ascending polyradiculoneuropathy was the main feature of a primary meningeal B lymphoma in two patients. Tumour cells appeared in the CSF eight and six months respectively after the onset of the disease. Treatment by intrathecal methotrexate resulted in transient improvement. 
Stripping out pus in lactational mastitis: a means of preventing breast abscess. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether manual stripping of pus from the breasts of women with lactational mastitis is effective in preventing the formation of breast abscesses. DESIGN: Case series (chart review). SETTING: Family practice in Montreal. PATIENTS: All (475) charts of patients with lactational mastitis were reviewed; 61 women were excluded because they already had a breast abscess. Most of the patients had been referred. OUTCOME MEASURES: Abscess formation, length of illness after treatment, rate of recurrence of mastitis, illness in the mother or infant within the 6 weeks after the mastitis and continuance of breast-feeding. MAIN RESULTS: The duration of symptoms before treatment was 1 to 56 (mean 5.3) days. In 9% of the cases both breasts were affected, and in 23% at least one episode of mastitis had previously occurred. The stripping technique was applied to all the patients. Pus was removed in 210 women; the remaining women were considered to have cellulitis. Only four patients (less than 1%) had breast abscesses. The mean length of illness after treatment was 7.2 days. The rate of recurrence was 14%. In all, 6% of the mothers and 9% of the infants became ill in the 6 weeks after the mastitis. Most (92%) of the patients continued to breast-feed. CONCLUSIONS: The rate of abscess formation was considerably lower than the rates reported in the literature. Therefore, manual stripping of pus from the infected breasts of lactating women appears to be effective in preventing breast abscesses. 
Familial enteric neuropathy with pseudoobstruction. We report a case of autosomal dominant chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to a familial enteric neuropathy. Esophagogastrointestinal manometry studies in the index case showed decreased postprandial contractile frequency with normal amplitude of pressure activity in the stomach and small bowel. Pupillary function and autonomic reflexes were all normal, excluding an extrinsic autonomic neuropathy of the viscera. Histologic examination of the small intestine by hematoxylin and eosin stains revealed normal smooth muscles but a reduced number of neurons in the myenteric plexus without inflammatory cells or neuroNal intranuclear inclusions. Histologic examination of the myenteric plexus using the sections taken along the longitudinal axis of the intestine, stained with silver by the Smith technique, disclosed decreased numbers of argyrophilic neurons and degeneration of neurons and axons; however, there was no reactive increase in the number of glial cell nuclei. The patient's mother had suffered from chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, which did not abate following extensive small bowel resection. This is the third family reported with an autosomal dominant enteric neuropathy unassociated with evidence of extrinsic autonomic or peripheral neuropathy. Subtotal resection of the small bowel was followed by recurrence of the pseudoobstruction syndrome in both affected members of the family. 
Negative inotropic activity of the calcium antagonists isradipine, nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil in diseased human myocardium. The use of calcium antagonists in the treatment of cardiac failure is limited by the negative inotropic effects they exert. The comparative inotropic activity of four calcium antagonists was therefore investigated, using electrically driven human papillary muscle strips and human atrial trabeculae. These inotropic effects were studied with cumulative concentration-response curves. The four calcium antagonists included in this study were all found to significantly (P less than or equal to .05) diminish the force of contraction above 0.01 mumol/L, but with different potencies. On the basis of the relationship between therapeutic vasoactive plasma concentrations and the negative inotropic effective concentrations in our system in vitro, the ranking order of potential negative inotropism in the treatment of cardiac failure with calcium antagonists was verapamil greater than nifedipine greater than diltiazem greater than isradipine. Thus, to minimize cardiodepressant risk, the use of calcium antagonists with weak negative inotropic effects at relevant concentrations should be preferred, especially in the case of patients with compromised cardiac function. 
Cholesterol: a useful parameter for distinguishing between pleural exudates and transudates. Previously established criteria were used to classify 253 pleural effusions as transudates (65 cases), neoplastic exudates (67 cases), tuberculous exudates (65 cases), or miscellaneous exudate (56 cases). The parameters pleural LDH (PLDH), pleural LDH/serum LDH ratio (P/SLDH), and pleural protein/serum protein ratio (P/SPROT) were compared with pleural cholesterol (PCHOL) and the pleural cholesterol/serum cholesterol ratio (P/SCHOL) with regard to their usefulness for distinguishing between pleural exudates and transudates. The PCHOL values determined were 28.5 +/- 12.8 mg/dl for transudates, 88.1 +/- 30 mg/dl for neoplastic exudates, 96.5 +/- 28 mg/dl for tuberculous exudates, and 88 +/- 35.9 mg/dl for the miscellaneous group; the differences between the transudate group and the others are statistically significant (p less than 0.001). The sensitivity and specificity of P/SPROT for diagnosis of exudates were both 89 percent; the sensitivity of PLDH was 67 percent and its specificity was 95 percent; the sensitivity and specificity of P/SLDH were both 84.6 percent. Using Light's three criteria as a battery, the sensitivity was 94.6 percent and its specificity was 78.4 percent. All the transudates and 17 (9 percent) of the 188 exudates had PCHOL values below 55 mg/dl, so that with this threshold, PCHOL had a sensitivity of 91 percent and a specificity of 100 percent for diagnosis of exudates. With a threshold of 0.3, P/SCHOL had a sensitivity of 92.5 percent and a specificity of 87.6 percent. The number of misclassifications by PCHOL was less than with any other of the parameters, with statistically significant differences with respect to PLDH (p less than 0.001) and P/SLDH (p less than 0.01). We conclude that determination of PCHOL and P/SCHOL is of great value for distinguishing between pleural exudates and transudates, and should be included in routine laboratory analysis of pleural effusions. 
Pathogenetic mechanism of stroke in non-valvular atrial fibrillation: follow-up of stroke patients with and without atrial fibrillation. Stroke patients with brain infarction and non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF, n = 88) or sinus rhythm (SR, n = 188), treated at a population-based stroke unit, were studied for 5 years. Within 1 month, 13% of NVAF and 2% of SR patients (P less than 0.01) had either a stroke recurrence or systemic embolism. After 5 years, the corresponding figures were 26 and 25%, respectively. The 1-month and 5-year mortality values were 35 and 78% in the NVAF group vs. 7 and 52% in the SR group (P less than 0.01). Age, ischaemic heart disease and function group on arrival at the hospital were independent risk factors for death. The main cause of death was ischaemic heart disease in the NVAF group, and complications to the initial stroke or a stroke recurrence in the SR group. Thus a higher risk of death, stroke recurrence and peripheral embolism was evident only during the first month after stroke. 
Mefloquine-resistant falciparum malaria on the Thai-Burmese border Mefloquine is the treatment of choice for uncomplicated multiresistant falciparum malaria, and in combination with sulphadoxine and pyrimethamine (MSP) at a single dose of 15/30/1.5 mg/kg, respectively, has been used in Thailand for the past 6 years. In 1985-86, MSP cured over 98% of 5192 patients with falciparum malaria on the Thai-Burmese border. 4 years later we studied the efficacy of MSP in 395 patients at the same location. The cure rate at 28 days was 70.8% (95% Cl 67-77.2%). The proportion of early treatment failures (in whom parasitaemia did not clear) had risen from 0.27 to 3.7% (p less than 0.0001). Failure rates were 50% in children under 6 years old, 29% in the 6-15 age group, and 19% in adults (p less than 0.001). Patients with early treatment failure were retreated with 25 mg/kg mefloquine, but 27% had a further recrudescence of infection within 28 days. The mean (95% Cl) serum mefloquine concentration at the time of first recrudescence was 638 (546-730) ng/ml, a value previously associated with successful treatment. Mefloquine concentrations were no lower in those with recrudescent infections than in age-matched successfully treated patients, suggesting that pharmacokinetic factors were not responsible for the high treatment-failure rate. Plasmodium falciparum has developed resistance to mefloquine rapidly, despite the addition of sulphadoxine and pyrimethamine and strict control of drug administration. The MSP combination should now be abandoned. 
DNA damage in cultured human skin fibroblasts exposed to excimer laser radiation. Ultraviolet excimer lasers are being considered for use in a variety of refractive and therapeutic procedures, the long-term biologic consequences of which are unknown. The effect of sublethal doses of 193-nm laser radiation on cellular DNA was examined in cultured human skin fibroblasts. In contrast to 248 nm, treatments with the 193-nm laser radiation below 70 J/m2 did not cause significant pyrimidine dimer formation in the skin cells. This was indicated by the lack of excision repair activities (unscheduled DNA synthesis assay), and further demonstrated by direct analysis of pyrimidine dimers in DNA from irradiated cells. However, a low level of unscheduled DNA synthesis could be detected following irradiation at 193 nm with 70 J/m2. Both the 193-nm and 248-nm radiation were able to induce chromosomal aberrations, as indicated by a micronucleus assay. A dose-dependent increase in micronuclei frequency was observed 48 and 72 h after laser irradiation. These results indicate that exposure of actively replicating human skin fibroblasts to sublethal doses of either 193- or 248-nm laser radiation can result in genotoxicity. 
Alcohol craving in rehabilitation: assessment of nutrition therapy. If untreated, alcohol abuse, which often results from alcohol craving, causes major metabolic abnormalities, altered life-styles, lost productivity, and eventually death. Biochemical mechanisms that may contribute to alcohol craving include the stress response of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis, the endogenous opiate beta-endorphin system, neurotransmitter synthesis and release, hypoglycemia, and nutrient deficiencies. The macronutrient ratio of meals, the resulting insulin response, and nutrient blood levels can affect amino acid and nutrient transport across the blood-brain barrier. Researchers have reported that animals increase alcohol intake when fed nutrient-deficient diets or after stressful experience. A pilot study was designed to assess the effects of nutrition therapy added to a traditional rehabilitation program based on the 12-step program of Alcoholics Anonymous. One study group received traditional therapy; the other study group received traditional therapy and nutrition therapy consisting of modified menus and individualized nutrition counseling. Patients who received nutrition therapy reported significantly fewer hypoglycemic symptoms, lower sugar intake, less alcohol craving as well as significantly greater nutrient intakes; a greater number abstained from alcohol. These findings indicate that nutrition therapy can aid in the recovery from alcoholism. 
Successful combined operation for Takayasu's arteritis. We report a case of Takayasu's arteritis complicated with aortic regurgitation and severe stenosis of the left coronary ostium and the innominate artery. Simultaneous surgical treatment of aortic valve replacement, coronary ostium endarterectomy, and aortosubclavian artery bypass using saphenous vein were performed. We discuss the choice of simultaneous operation and the option of surgical treatment for coronary ostium lesion due to Takayasu's arteritis. 
Health implications of obesity in American Indians and Alaska Natives. American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) are experiencing an epidemic of diabetes, increasing rates of coronary artery disease and hypertension, and poor survival rates for breast cancer that are likely partially attributable to the increasing prevalence of obesity over the past generation. Obesity may also contribute to the high rates of gallstones and to adverse outcomes of pregnancy in AI/ANs. Although overall mortality was not associated with obesity in Pima Indians (except in the most obese men), the relationship of obesity to longevity in other AI/AN groups is not known. Further study of the specific health effects of obesity in various groups of AI/ANs are needed. In the meantime, community-based programs to prevent obesity and its sequelae should be implemented in all AI/AN communities. 
Nongynecologic somatic pathology in women with chronic pelvic pain and negative laparoscopy. One hundred eighty-three women with chronic pelvic pain were referred to a multidisciplinary chronic pelvic pain clinic after negative laparoscopy. One hundred twenty-two of them completed a thorough medical and psychologic evaluation and were followed for a minimum of six months after completion of therapy. Occult somatic pathology was diagnosed in 57 women (47%), including 19 in whom coexistent psychopathology was diagnosed. Myofascial pain was the most common somatic diagnosis, followed by atypical cyclic pain (dysmenorrhea or mittelschmerz); gastroenterologic, urologic and infectious diseases; and pelvic vascular congestion. No plausible somatic etiology was apparent in the remaining 65 (53%) of the 122 referrals. Nongynecologic somatic pathology accounted for 34 (29%) and gynecologic pathology for 23 (19%) of the referrals, only 6 (5%) of whom ultimately required hysterectomy. Women with a somatic diagnosis were found to be significantly older than the remainder of the referral population. Long-term symptomatic improvement or resolution of pain was obtained in 43 (75%) of the 57 patients with somatic diagnoses. Coexistent psychopathology was found to correlate with a poorer long-term prognosis. Our findings underscore the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to evaluating and treating chronic pelvic pain in women and confirm that hysterectomy is indicated in this setting only rarely. 
Standards for evaluating and reporting the results of surgical and percutaneous therapy for peripheral arterial disease. By adopting precise definitions of essential terms, developing objective criteria by which the various measures of success or failure can be judged, and establishing a standardized scheme by which severity of disease, degrees of improvement or deterioration, and risk factors that affect outcome can be graded, the quality of published reports of revascularization procedures for lower extremity ischemia can be greatly improved, allowing comparative evaluation of treatment modalities. 
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists. In summary, histamine initiates acid secretion by stimulating the H2 subtype histamine receptor on parietal cells. Cimetidine, rantidine, famotidine, and nizantidine are histamine H2-receptor antagonists that block this action of histamine, reducing gastric acid output and concentration under both basal and stimulated conditions. These agents are used for treatment and prevention of peptic and stress ulcers as well as for hypersecretory states. Because of their effectiveness and low incidence of side effects, H2-antagonists have largely replaced more traditional antiulcer regimens. 
Verrucous carcinoma of the bladder. Verrucous carcinoma of the bladder unassociated with bilharzial cystitis is an exceedingly rare entity, with only 3 cases reported in the literature. We describe a patient and review the literature concerning verrucous carcinoma. 
Grafting of perfused adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus of patients with Parkinson's disease. Clinica Puerta de Hierro Neural Transplantation Group. The authors report results obtained in 20 severely affected patients with Parkinson's disease (Grade IV or V) who received an autotransplant of perfused adrenal medullary tissue. This study seems to indicate that these autoimplants can improve the parkinsonian symptomatology and induce amelioration in the patients' performance of routine activities. All the symptoms analyzed showed improvement, although it differed in intensity and time of onset. Moreover, this improvement was accompanied by a reduction in the daily intake of L-dopa, with discontinuance of dopamine agonists and amantadine. A number of medical complications were encountered, including three deaths, probably related to performing abdominal surgery in seriously affected parkinsonian patients who were unable to tolerate the discontinuance of their medication. The transient psychiatric disorders observed appeared to be related to the postoperative dose of L-dopa and/or anticholinergic agents administered, and diminished or disappeared when the doses were reduced. The reasons for improvement, which was bilateral, remain unknown, although one cause may be the surgical trauma (minicaudotomy) together with the implantation of adrenal medullary tissue, which may promote the sprouting of surviving dopaminergic fibers. Moreover, in this series, perfusion of adrenal medulla increased the capacity for revascularization of the tissue and may have reduced the damaging effects of warm ischemia on the cells. This, together with the existence of fenestrated vessels, could hypothetically have served as an access point for drugs, and if the implanted cells were viable, they might have served to store and manufacture different factors and/or transmitters. These results as well as those of other groups justify the development of a controlled international clinical trial. 
Principal causes of mechanical bowel obstruction in surgically treated adults in western Turkey. A retrospective study of the principal causes of mechanical bowel obstruction occurring in Western Turkey between 1979 and 1989 was undertaken. The records of 14,777 operations performed in the general surgery departments of two hospitals were reviewed. Mechanical bowel obstruction occurred in 582 patients. Among the causes of mechanical bowel obstruction, adhesions were most common (44.0 per cent), followed by strangulated hernia (23.9 per cent), volvuli (12.7 per cent) and colonic carcinomas (10.1 per cent). A previous appendicectomy appeared to be the most important cause of adhesions causing mechanical bowel obstruction. 
Undifferentiated carcinoma of parotid gland. Two cases of undifferentiated carcinomas of the major salivary glands were studied using immunohistochemical techniques. Results showed that this entity was a high grade malignant neoplasm arising from the excretory duct. Despite the undifferentiated appearance multiple immunophenotypes were evident in both cases. 
Functional properties of the beta-globin locus control region in K562 erythroleukemia cells. In this report, we compare the function of the human beta-globin locus control region (LCR) in three K562 erythroleukemia cell assays, including (1) a transient transfection assay for "classical" enhancer activity, (2) a colony assay that detects "productive integration events," and (3) an assay that detects the ability of LCR fragments to confer hemin inducibility on linked, stably integrated gamma-globin promoters. Various LCR fragments were inserted into an expression vector consisting of an A gamma-globin promoter driving the neomycin phosphotransferase gene (gamma-neo). Using these vectors, we determined that a 2.5-kb DNA fragment containing LCR sites I through IV (previously named mu locus activation region [mu LAR]) had activity in all three assays; of the individual LCR sites, only site II was highly active in all three assays. One region within site II, consisting of tandem AP-1/NF-E2 consensus elements, had approximately 10% as much colony assay activity as the entire mu LAR. However, this region did not have detectable activity in a transient enhancer assay in uninduced K562 cells, nor was it capable of conferring hemin inducibility on linked gamma-globin promoters in stably transfected cells. Finally, we tested the ability of the mu LAR to activate promoters (beta-globin and cathepsin G) that are not normally expressed in K562 cells. beta-neo was minimally activated by the mu LAR in transient transfection experiments. The mu LAR increased the number of stably transfected colonies produced by beta-neo, but the absolute number of beta-neo colonies, with or without the mu LAR, was approximately 10% to 20% that of gamma-neo. In contrast, a minimal cathepsin G promoter was activated by the mu LAR in K562 cells. Our results suggest that LCR functions are dependent in part on the environments and the promoters with which the LCR is tested. 
Effects of urokinase and heparin on minimal cross-sectional area of the culprit narrowing in unstable angina pectoris. The immediate and delayed effects of urokinase and heparin on minimal cross-sectional area of a patent ischemia-producing coronary artery were prospectively investigated in 43 patients with unstable angina. After baseline angiography, patients were randomized to 3 different treatment groups: group I--urokinase (1,000,000 U intravenous bolus dose), followed by heparin infusion 3 hours later; group II--heparin (10,000 U intravenous bolus, followed by continuous infusion); and group III--conventional therapy only (intravenous nitroglycerin, beta blockers and calcium antagonists). Angiography was repeated at 1 hour and at 8 days of treatment and minimal cross-sectional area was determined in the 35 patients who completed the study. In group I, minimal cross-sectional area increased from 0.84 +/- 0.48 mm2 at baseline to 0.94 +/- 0.49 mm2 at 1 hour (p less than 0.05), and to 1.00 +/- 0.51 mm2 at 8 days (p less than 0.01 vs baseline). In group II, a significant increase in minimal cross-sectional area was observed only at the 8-day angiography (0.64 +/- 0.39 mm2 at baseline; 0.67 +/- 0.37 mm2 at 1 hour [p = not significant]; and 0.79 +/- 0.48 mm2 at 8 days [p less than 0.01] vs baseline). In group III, no significant changes in minimal cross-sectional area occurred either at 1 hour or at 8 days. Thus, both urokinase and heparin improved lesion geometry in patients with unstable angina, although a large individual variation was noticed. The effect occurred earlier with urokinase than with heparin. 
Predominant expression of lambda light chain in adult cases with non-T-cell acute lymphocytic and chronic myelogenous leukemia in lymphoid blast crisis. The authors investigated cytoplasmic immunoglobulins of the leukemic cells from 20 adult cases with non-T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and from three cases with chronic myelogenous leukemia in lymphoid blast crisis using immunoelectron microscopy. They also studied these cases using various monoclonal antibodies. Of the 23 examined cases, nine were negative for both heavy and light chains of immunoglobulins; the authors defined these as common ALL. Two cases were positive for the mu chain but were negative for light chains; the authors defined these as pre-B-cell ALL. The remaining 12 cases were positive for either kappa or lambda light chains; these were defined as B-cell ALL. Of the 12 cases positive for light chains, 11 were positive for the lambda chain. Seven cases of the 11 positive cases for the lambda chain were negative for heavy chains. Eleven cases were positive either for both My4 and My9 or for one of the two antibodies. From these results, the authors conclude the following: (1) the ratio of pre-B-cell ALL among non-T-cell ALL cases (two of 23 cases) was lower in adults than in children; (2) of the light chain-positive cases, the lambda light chain-positive cases predominated (11 of 12 cases); (3) heavy chain-negative, lambda chain-positive cases (seven cases) were observed; and (4) one half of the leukemia cases showed dual phenotypes of B-cell and myeloid cell lineages. 
Cytokine gene expression in the islets of the diabetic Biobreeding/Worcester rat. The Biobreeding Worcester rat provides one of the best models of autoimmune diabetes. Immunopathologic studies of acute diabetes show that the islets are infiltrated by T cells and macrophages. It has been hypothesized that the islets are damaged by the secretion of cytokines such as IL-1 and TNF-alpha and that their function may be altered by IL-6. In this study, we utilized in situ hybridization to determine the expression of the IL-1, TNF, and IL-6 genes within the pancreas of the acute diabetic Biobreeding Worcester rat. These studies showed that cells expressing IL-1, TNF, and IL-6 were present within the islets and in the exocrine pancreas surrounding islets, ducts, and vessels and in an interstitial location. Cells expressing TNF and IL-1 mRNA were present in about 20% of the islets, whereas cells expressing IL-6 were present in about 4% of the islets. Islets containing TNF- or IL-1-positive cells contained about three positive cells per islet whereas only about one IL-6-positive cell was present per islet. In 26% of the islets peri-insular TNF-positive cells were found. Peri-insular IL-1 positive cells were seen in 14% of the islets and 8% showed peri-insular IL-6 positive cells. In nondiabetic 30-day old DP or 90-day-old DR rats intra-islet cytokine gene expression was not seen. Our studies support the view that cytokines are important in beta cell destruction. 
Cerebrovascular accident complicating acute myocardial infarction: incidence, clinical significance and short- and long-term mortality rates. The SPRINT Study Group. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to report the incidence, the antecedents, and the clinical significance of clinically recognized cerebrovascular accidents or transient ischemic attacks (CVA-TIA) complicating acute myocardial infarction. PATIENTS AND METHODS: During 1981 to 1983, a secondary prevention study with nifedipine (SPRINT) was conducted in 14 hospitals in Israel among 2,276 survivors of acute myocardial infarction. During the study, demographic, historical, and medical data were collected on special forms for all patients with diagnosed acute myocardial infarction in 13 of these 14 hospitals (the SPRINT registry, n = 5,839). Mortality follow-up was completed for 99% of hospital survivors for a mean follow-up of 5.5 years (range: 4.5 to 7 years). RESULTS: The incidence of CVA-TIA was 0.9% (54 of 5,839). The latter rate increased significantly only with age, from 0.4% among patients up to 59 years old to 1.6% among those aged greater than or equal to 70 years. Multivariate analysis identified age, congestive heart failure, and history of stroke as predictors of CVA-TIA during the acute phase of myocardial infarction. Patients with CVA-TIA exhibited a complicated hospital course, with a 15-day mortality rate of 41%. Subsequent mortality rates in survivors at 1 and 5 years were 34% and 59%, respectively. Rates at the same time points in patients without CVA-TIA were 16%, 11%, and 29% (p less than 0.01). In a multivariate analysis that included age, gender, congestive heart failure, history of previous myocardial infarction, and hypertension, CVA-TIA was independently associated with increased 15-day mortality (covariate-adjusted odds ratio [OR] = 2.62; 90% confidence interval [CI], 1.59 to 4.32), as well as subsequent 1-year (OR = 3.29; 90% CI, 1.70 to 6.36) and long-term (mean follow-up = 5.5 years) mortality (OR = 2.46; 90% CI, 1.30 to 4.69). CONCLUSION: In this large cohort of consecutive patients with myocardial infarction, CVA-TIA was a relatively infrequent complication of acute myocardial infarction. Factors independently favoring the occurrence of CVA-TIA were old age, previous CVA, and congestive heart failure. CVA-TIA occurring during acute myocardial infarction independently increased the risk of early death threefold as well as the risk of long-term mortality in early-phase survivors. (2.5-fold). 
Low-back pain and disk degeneration in children: a case-control MR imaging study. Thirty-nine 15-year-old children with low-back pain (LBP) and 39 asymptomatic control children were selected from a population of 1,503 children of the same age for a magnetic resonance imaging study of the lumbar spine. Subjects with LBP were matched with control subjects by age, sex, and school class. Disk degeneration (DD) was present in 15 (38%) of the children with LBP and in 10 (26%) of the control subjects. Lumbar degeneration was most frequently associated with disk protrusion and Scheuermann-type changes. Of assessed structural abnormalities (disk protrusion, Scheuermann-type changes, transitional vertebra, and disk space narrowing), only disk protrusion was more common in children of the LBP group than in control subjects. The authors conclude that DD is a frequent finding among children with LBP at the age of 15 years. Asymptomatic (possibly physiologic) DD also is frequently found in children of this age. Whether DD associated with structural changes predisposes to low-back disorders can be confirmed only by means of a longitudinal follow-up study. 
Motor responses after transcranial electrical stimulation of cerebral hemispheres with a degenerated pyramidal tract. Motor responses were evoked in the thenar muscles by transcranial electrical cortex stimulation in 5 stroke patients with an isolated lacuna in the internal capsule, in whom wallerian degeneration of the pyramidal tract was demonstrated in vivo. Suprathreshold stimulation of the affected hemisphere elicited bilateral motor responses; whereas, stimulation at identical intensities of the undamaged hemisphere yielded strictly unilateral responses in the contralateral hand, like the responses of all normal control subjects. Focused magnetic brain stimulation was performed in 1 patient and gave identical results. Because muscular excitability to cortical stimulation is preserved in spite of pyramidal tract disruption, other pathways must bypass the lesion. Because of the bilaterality of responses, we suggest polysynaptic corticoreticulospinal connections. 
The Libyan Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease focus in Israel: an epidemiologic evaluation. In a country-wide study of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in Israel, we diagnosed 114 cases, among them 49 Libyan-born, with onset of their disease during the years 1963-1987. After age adjustment, the mean annual incidence rate per million population was 43 among Libyan-born and 0.9 in the rest of the population. Among Jews born in Egypt and Tunisia, neighboring countries of Libya, the adjusted rates were higher than in the other Israelis (3.5 and 2.3 per million, respectively). Among Libyan Jews, there was no association between incidence rate of CJD and age at immigration, ie, duration of exposure to hypothetical infectious factor in Libya. The percent of familial cases among Libyan Jews (41 to 47%) is one of the highest ever published. Genetic factors seem to be important for the high incidence of CJD among Libyan Jews. 
Paradoxical vocal cord motion: an unusual cause of stridor. Stridor due to obstructive causes is relatively common. Functional airway obstruction with paradoxical vocal cord motion is uncommon. Only 12 cases have been reported in the literature in the past 15 years. The majority were young female patients. We have recently encountered two cases. Lack of awareness of this condition caused several problems in management. 
Cystoid macular edema secondary to juxtafoveolar telangiectasis in Coats' disease. A 28-year-old man with unilateral Coats' disease and cystoid macular edema secondary to juxtafoveolar telangiectasis underwent successful juxtafoveolar argon green laser photocoagulation therapy with resolution of the edema and improvement in metamorphopsia and visual acuity. Despite this success, the effect of laser therapy in these patients remains uncertain. It should be considered only after detailed discussion with the patient about the possibility of posttreatment paracentral scotomata and the alternative of a reasonable period of observation for possible spontaneous resolution of the edema. 
Seasonality of disease in Kuwait. To compare the seasonal variation in total mortality and deaths from cardiovascular, respiratory, and malignant disease, data were collected from North-East Scotland (Grampian region) and Kuwait. Seasonal differences were similar, in both timing and degree, for total mortality and deaths from circulatory disease, but were greater in Kuwait for respiratory disease. Peak mortality was during winter in both areas: in Grampian, when the climate is most uncomfortable, and in Kuwait, when the climate is at its most comfortable. Socioeconomic changes in Kuwait have been accompanied by a rapid fall in the degree of seasonality (deseasonality) for both total and infant mortality. These findings suggest that mortality peaks in winter, not because of a seasonally low temperature, but because of a seasonal fall in mean temperature irrespective of the annual mean temperature. 
Limited heterogeneity of the HLA class II contribution to susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis is suggested by positive associations with HLA-DR4, DR1 and DRw10. Most patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) exhibit an HLA class II epitope found on most DR4 and DR1 molecules. We have investigated the possibility of other associations being present in the minority of patients lacking these antigens. One hundred and eighty patients with classical or definite RA and 100 controls were assigned HLA-DR, DQ and DP types by a DNA-based system using sequence-specific oligonucleotides to probe amplified class II alleles amplified by the polymerase chain reaction. The expected associations with DR4 (relative risk 10, P less than 0.0001) and DR1 (relative risk 2.3, P less than 0.001) were observed and only 13% of individuals lacked both of these alleles compared with 54% of age- and race-matched controls. A significant association with DRw10 (P = 0.02) was also observed in the DR4/DR1-negative RA group (3/23 patients compared with 0/54 DR4/DR1-negative controls). No novel associations with other DR, DQ, or DP alleles were evident in contrast to some previous studies. The third allelic hypervariable region of the DR beta chain of DRw10 contains a similar amino acid sequence to that found in many DR4 and DR1 molecules. These results extend this correlation and suggest that this susceptibility determinant may account for the HLA-linked susceptibility in 89% of our cases of RA. 
Von Hippel-Lindau disease and erythrocytosis: radioimmunoassay of erythropoietin in cyst fluid from a brainstem hemangioblastoma. A 59-year-old woman with von Hippel-Lindau disease developed erythrocytosis and a recurrent intracranial hemangioblastoma. Radioimmunoassay showed an elevated level of erythropoietin in her serum. Cyst fluid from the tumor also contained erythropoietin, concentrated a thousandfold relative to the serum level. Production of erythropoietin by hemangioblastomas may explain the erythrocytosis present in some patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease. 
Plasticity of central motor pathways in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy. To obtain neurophysiologic evidence for a reorganization of central motor pathways in children who had suffered a cerebral lesion at birth, we performed cross-correlation analyses of multiunit EMG recordings obtained from children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy and marked mirror movements. We found that the motoneuron pools of homologous left and right hand muscles received common synaptic input from abnormally branched presynaptic axons. The results of electromagnetic brain stimulation, cutaneomuscular, and tendon reflex testing suggested that these common inputs are provided by abnormally branched corticospinal tract fibers whose origin is the undamaged motor cortex. 
Serotonin antagonists: a new class of antiemetic agents. Despite a number of significant advances over the past decade, prevention and treatment of chemotherapy-induced emesis remain formidable problems, particularly with cisplatin-containing regimens. Nearly one third of patients receiving high-dose cisplatin still experience substantial emesis despite the best available conventional antiemetics, and the toxic effects of these agents remain quite troublesome. In recent years, a new class of agents, the serotonin antagonists, has been identified. These agents hold promise for clinical utility in a wide range of areas. Selective antagonists of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) type 3 (5-HT3) receptor have proven in early clinical trials to be potent antiemetic agents in patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, with efficacy comparable to or superior to that of conventional antiemetics. Toxic effects to date with the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists have been modest. The current state of knowledge with respect to these agents as antiemetics for patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy is summarized. 
Recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor after autologous bone marrow transplantation for relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: blood and bone marrow progenitor growth studies. A phase II Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Trial. Sixteen patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation and infusion of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF). Treatment consisted of involved-field radiotherapy, cyclophosphamide 60 mg/kg/d intravenously (IV) for 2 days, and fractionated total body irradiation (1,200 cGy). Autologous bone marrow was thawed and infused IV, followed 3 hours later by the first infusion of IV rhGM-CSF 11 micrograms/kg/d over 4 hours. Infusions of rhGM-CSF were continued daily until either both neutrophil count exceeded 1,500/microL and platelet count exceeded 50,000/microL, or until 30 days after marrow re-infusion. Toxicities encountered were mild and included fever, chills, hypertension, alopecia, rash, diarrhea, stomatitis, myalgias, and synovial (knee) effusions. Neutrophil recovery greater than 500/microL occurred a median of 14 days (range, 9 to 30 days) after marrow infusion, significantly earlier than in a comparable group of historic controls who recovered counts at a median time of 20 days (range, 12 to 51 days) (P = .00002). Median time to self-sustaining platelet counts greater than 20,000/microL was 23.5 days (range, 12 to 100 days), comparable with the historic group (P = .38). One bacteremia (central venous catheter exit site infection with Staphylococcus epidermidis) and one local infection (Giardia lamblia in stool) occurred. Patients received a median of 11.4 (range, 4.4 to 20.2) x 10(4) colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) progenitors per kg. Stem cell progenitors CFU-GM, CFU-granulocyte, erythroid, monocyte, megakaryocyte (CFU-GEMM), and burst-forming unit-erythroid (BFU-E) were detected in the bone marrow as early as 7 days after marrow re-infusion, and increased in proportion to peripheral blood counts, but by 30 to 60 days still remained much lower than before transplant. Neutrophils transiently decreased in 13 of 16 patients (median decrease, 42%) within 24 to 72 hours of discontinuing rhGM-CSF infusions. These data suggest that rhGM-CSF therapy enhances neutrophil recovery by forcing stem cells to produce mature elements at an enhanced rate but may not affect marrow stem cell and early progenitor population sizes. 
Hemodynamics in the prone jackknife position during surgery. We examined the hemodynamic changes occurring with prone jackknife positioning during colorectal surgery. The operative procedure was restorative proctocolectomy with ileal J-pouch anal anastomosis in five patients with adenomatosis coli and six patients with ulcerative colitis and anoabdominal resection of the rectum with colonic J-pouch anal anastomosis in eight patients with rectal cancer. Nineteen patients (10 men and 9 women aged 41 +/- 19 years) were monitored with arterial and Swan-Ganz catheters during positioning. Measurements were obtained in the supine and prone positions (1 minute, 3 minutes), and the jackknife position (1, 3, 5, and 10 minutes), as well as before and after adoption of the Lloyd-Davies position (1, 3, 5, and 10 minutes). Turning the patient from the supine position to the prone position resulted in a significant decrease in the cardiac index (CI). However, following head-down rotation, the CI increased and returned to the value seen in the supine position (p less than 0.05). Heart rate (HR) slowed and mean arterial pressure (MAP) increased in the prone jackknife position. We concluded that the extent of the changes in cardiac function presented no serious problems. 
Impassable ureteral strictures: management with percutaneous ureteroneocystostomy. Sixteen of 227 patients referred for percutaneous placement of a ureteral stent had impassable stenoses. Stenoses were benign (n = 8) or attributed to malignant retroperitoneal neoplasm (n = 8). Electrocautery was used to create a neotract between the stenosed ureter and the bladder or ileal loop. A double-J stent was placed after dilation of the tract by use of angioplasty. Neotracts were established and stents were placed in all patients. Complications (digestive tract fistulas) developed in two patients. This technique is safe if the electrode is placed close to the bladder or ileal loop. The procedure can be used as an alternative to surgery or permanent nephrostomy or in initial treatment of benign anastomotic stenosis. 
Effect of granulocytopenia on oral microbial relationships in patients with acute leukemia. Risk for acute infection increases as granulocyte levels decrease secondary to myelosuppressive chemotherapy in patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL). Acute exacerbations of concomitant inflammatory periodontal diseases can result in systemic infections in these patients. However, host-oral bacterial relationships in the periodontium in patients with ANLL are not well understood. Twenty-one adult patients with ANLL with periodontal disease ranging from gingivitis to severe periodontitis were studied. Supragingival and subgingival plaque specimens were collected before chemotherapy (prechemotherapy), and at a defined midpoint of myelosuppression (midchemotherapy; day 14). All specimens were extensively cultured both aerobically and anaerobically. Data were submitted to a partial correlational analysis, controlling for covariation relation to oral hygiene intervention and antibiotic administration. Levels of total yeast exhibited a significant association with Staphylococcus sp. at supragingival sites midchemotherapy (r = 0.68, p less than or equal to 0.05). Levels of total yeast also correlated positively with Pseudomonas aeruginosa at subgingival sites both prechemotherapy (r = 0.70, p less than or equal to 0.01) and midchemotherapy (r = 0.61, p less than or equal to 0.05). Significant correlations of levels of Veillonella sp. with Neisseria sp. and gram-negative enteric bacilli were observed in both supragingival (r = 0.95, 0.77, p values less than or equal to 0.01) and subgingival (r = 0.69, 0.61, p values less than or equal to 0.05) plaque specimens midchemotherapy but not prechemotherapy. These data suggest that potentially pathogenic bacteria occur in plaque simultaneous with granulocytopenia in these patients. Multiple mechanisms, including intergeneric coaggregation and other symbiotic relationships, may influence infectivity of the mixed plaque flora and thus contribute to the oral ecology observed in these patients. 
The effect of nicardipine on vasospasm in rabbit basilar artery after subarachnoid hemorrhage. This study was performed to examine the effect of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, nicardipine, on vasospasm after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the rabbit. The study was carried out in two parts: 1) effect of intravenous nicardipine (n = 45) and 2) effect of intracisternal nicardipine (n = 21). SAH was induced by injecting 5 ml of autologous arterial blood into the cisterna magna. In the intravenous study, there were five groups: 1) SAH without treatment; 2) SAH with vehicle (saline); 3) SAH and intravenous infusion of low-dose nicardipine (0.01 mg/kg/h); 4) SAH and intravenous infusion of high-dose nicardipine (0.15 mg/kg/h); and 5) controls without SAH. The intravenous infusions were started immediately after SAH and continued for 48 hours until death. In the intracisternal study, there were three groups: 1) SAH without treatment; 2) SAH with intracisternal administration of nicardipine (0.37 mg/h); and 3) controls without SAH. Intracisternal infusions were begun 70 hours after SAH and continued for 2 hours until death. After perfusion-fixation, the basilar artery was removed and processed for morphometric analysis. In the intravenous study, vessels from animals subjected to SAH were significantly narrowed when compared with controls, although after high-dose nicardipine vessel caliber was slightly larger than in the other SAH groups. Animals given intracisternal nicardipine showed a nonsignificant reduction of caliber as compared with controls: only 12% decrease in diameter and 22% decrease in luminal area. In the rabbit SAH model, nicardipine had a very modest effect on vasospasm at the doses tested. 
Regression of carotid plaques during low density lipoprotein cholesterol elimination. We performed serial prospective ultrasound examinations of four flat and 17 soft carotid plaques during an average of 17 months in seven patients with heterozygous hypercholesterolemia during heparin-induced extracorporeal low density lipoprotein elimination on precipitation from plasma. By means of a specially designed quantitative three-dimensional ultrasound analysis, significant plaque volume reduction could be evaluated in all subjects, along with a marked reduction of total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol and fibrinogen serum levels. 
Dipyridamole thallium scanning in the evaluation of coronary artery disease in elective abdominal aortic surgery. Dipyridamole thallium scanning was routinely performed on 68 consecutive patients who presented for elective aortic surgery. All 68 patients were judged by clinical assessment to be at low risk for perioperative cardiac complications. In addition, 42 of 68 patients had a history of myocardial infarction, stable angina, or abnormal echocardiographic findings (group 1). Twenty-six of 68 patients did not have a history of myocardial infarction, angina, or abnormal echocardiographic findings (group 2). In group 1, 34 of 4 patients had positive results on dipyridamole thallium scanning, and 15 of these patients were found to have critical coronary artery disease on subsequent cardiac catheterization; nine underwent immediate coronary artery bypass grafting, and six had their coronary artery disease treated medically and their vascular operations cancelled. The remaining 27 patients in group 1 underwent elective operations, with six (22%) of 27 sustaining postoperative cardiac complications. None of the group 2 patients was found to have critical coronary artery disease. All patients in group 2 underwent aortic operation without cardiac complication. Routine dipyridamole thallium scanning detected a 22% (15 of 68) incidence of critical coronary artery disease overall. There was a 36% (15 of 42) incidence of critical coronary artery disease in group 1 patients vs 0% in group 2 patients (95% confidence interval, 21% to 50%). We conclude that the use of dipyridamole thallium scanning in low-risk patients for cardiac screening prior to elective aortic operations is beneficial in selected patients who have a history of myocardial infarction, angina, or abnormal echocardiographic findings, but is not necessary in patients with no history of coronary artery disease. 
Results of the Duhamel operation in the treatment of idiopathic megarectum and megacolon. The results of the Duhamel operation in patients with idiopathic megarectum and megacolon have been reviewed. Twenty patients (14 males, six females) underwent the Duhamel operation over a 17-year period for this condition. The mean age at operation was 25 years; the mean age of onset of constipation was 3 years; and the mean follow-up period was 4.5 years. All the resected colons were of enlarged diameter. There was agreement between the preoperative radiographs and the operative specimens with regard to which parts of the rectum and colon were dilated. Subjective feelings of well-being were generally improved by surgery, as was bowel frequency in ten patients. Soiling, straining, abdominal pain and distension were, however, common after operation. Early complications were also common and five patients required further surgery for constipation. The Duhamel operation for megarectum and megacolon is characterized by an improved sense of well-being and improved bowel frequency, but it is associated with the persistence of many symptoms and further surgery is often required. 
Renal pelvic explosion during conservative management of upper tract urothelial cancer. Ureteroscopic fulguration of a renal pelvic papillary transitional cell carcinoma is a relatively new and limited procedure. We present a case of intrarenal explosion during ureteroscopic fulguration. 
Effect of hyaluronic acid on postoperative intraperitoneal adhesion formation in the rat model. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the effectiveness of hyaluronic acid solution in preventing intraperitoneal (IP) adhesions. DESIGN AND SETTING: The study design was prospective, randomized and blinded and involved 83 rats. INTERVENTIONS: Measured serosal injury was inflicted using a CO2 laser on the right uterine horn of the rat. Animals randomized to groups 1 and 2 received either 0.4% hyaluronic acid or its diluent phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) intraperitoneally before and after the injury. In groups 3 and 4, the same solutions were used only after the injury. Postoperative adhesions were assessed at second-look laparotomy. Histologic assessment of the fresh laser injury was carried out on uteri pretreated with hyaluronic acid, PBS, or nothing. MAIN OUTCOME: Pretreatment with hyaluronic acid was associated with a significant reduction in postoperative adhesions and a significantly decreased crater depth. CONCLUSIONS: Hyaluronic acid appears to reduce postoperative IP adhesion formation by coating the serosal surfaces and decreasing the extent of initial tissue injury. 
Adrenal hemangioma: an unusual adrenal mass delineated with magnetic resonance imaging. Adrenal hemangioma should be included in the differential diagnosis of any large calcified adrenal mass. We report to our knowledge the eighth surgically removed lesion and describe its appearance on magnetic resonance imaging. This imaging includes features seen in hemangiomas elsewhere, in particular a heterogeneous mass with enhancing peripheral high intensity foci on T1 images. 
Effects of a moderate dose of alcohol on blood lipids and lipoproteins postprandially and in the fasting state. Effects of a moderate dose of alcohol on blood lipids and lipoproteins were studied in volunteers of two age groups (20-30 and 45-55 years), each consisting of eight healthy men. The alcohol (30 g in red port and wine) was consumed during a standard dinner. Two blood samples were drawn: one in the postprandial phase, and one the next morning after fasting overnight. In the postprandial phase, one hour after intake, alcohol increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) by 11.5%, triglycerides (TG) by 15.3% and apolipoprotein A2 (Apo-A2) by 7.3% (P = 0.002, P = 0.044 and P = 0.024, respectively). The increase in HDL-C appeared to be mainly attributed to the HDL2-C subfraction which increased by 15.3% (P = 0.066). Furthermore, the increases in HDL-C, HDL2-C and TG were more pronounced in the middle-aged men then in the young men. After fasting overnight the effects of alcohol had disappeared. 
Subdiaphragmatic extralobar pulmonary sequestration. A 21-day-old girl presented with a left subdiaphragmatic retroperitoneal mass discovered on maternal ultrasound at 23 weeks' gestation. The clinical impression was neuroblastoma, and preoperative workup showed no for metastatic disease. Histologically, the lesion proved to be an extralobar pulmonary sequestration. We present this case to remind pathologists of the occurrence of subdiaphragmatic pulmonary sequestration and its potential clinical confusion with other more familiar lesions that may occur in this location in a neonate. 
Primary ocular malignant lymphoma associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A 42-year-old man who was human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive complained of floaters in his right eye, which had existed for 1 week, followed by loss of central vision. Results of ophthalmoscopic examination disclosed confluent yellowish-white retinochoroidal infiltrates with perivascular sheathing, which were more prominent superiorly in the right eye. Approximately 10 small, white, intraretinal and choroidal lesions were observed in the nasal periphery of the left eye. Results of cytologic examination of the vitreous of the right eye showed neoplastic cells characteristic of large cell type malignant lymphoma. Shortly thereafter, cytologic examination of the cerebrospinal fluid also showed large cell malignant lymphoma. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a mass involving the left cerebellar hemisphere. After bilateral whole-eye radiation therapy, there was complete resolution of the lymphomatous retinochoroidal infiltrates in both eyes. The ophthalmologic and neurologic manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) are discussed. The authors believe this is the first report of ocular malignant lymphoma occurring in a patient with AIDS. 
Facial nerve monitoring in acoustic tumor surgery. Anatomic and functional preservation of the facial nerve during acoustic tumor surgery remains a primary goal. Intraoperative electromyographic facial nerve monitoring with auditory feedback has enabled the surgeon to more readily achieve this goal. We compared a group of monitored translabyrinthine acoustic tumor removals (N = 89) to a similar unmonitored group (N = 155) in regard to facial nerve function. Function was assessed immediately postoperatively, at time of discharge, and at 1 year postoperatively using the House six-point scale. Results were grouped as satisfactory, intermediate, or poor and were analyzed by tumor size. Facial nerve results were better at all time intervals in the monitored groups, although the difference was not statistically significant at the 1-year interval. There was no difference between monitored and unmonitored patients in the subgroups with tumors smaller than 2.5 cm in diameter. This study supports the usefulness of intraoperative facial nerve monitoring in improving facial nerve results, particularly in larger tumors. 
Ultrasonographical investigation of periportal fibrosis in children with Schistosoma mansoni infection: reversibility of morbidity seven months after treatment with praziquantel. Five hundred thirty six Sudanese schoolchildren with Schistosoma mansoni infection were treated at random with either 20 mg or 40 mg/kg praziquantel. Seven months later 420 children could be reinvestigated by ultrasonography. Reduction of egg excretion and reversibility of sonographically-proven periportal fibrosis (PF) was not significantly different in the two groups. Schistosoma mansoni-induced PF grade II decreased from 22.9% to 6.7% and grade III from 5.2% to 1.6%. An increased prevalence of PF grade I, from 10% to 29.8% of the investigated patients, was observed. This increase was caused partly by a downshifting of patients who had PF II (n = 45) and PF III (n = 8) before therapy, but also by patients who developed PF I in the seven months after therapy (n = 56). The overall percentage of patients with PF before and after treatment was 38.1%. Of 420 children, 17.4% increased in their PF grade, 55% remained at the same level and 27.6% improved. Children younger than 11 years of age had a higher rate of complete reversibility than older ones. The percentage of patients with hepatomegaly decreased significantly (11.6% to 6.9%; p = 0.001). The rate of splenomegaly remained unchanged. It was concluded that within seven months therapy with praziquantel resulted in a considerable qualitative improvement of PF in Sudanese schoolchildren with S. mansoni infection. 
Cancer mortality in Cuba and among the Cuban-born in the United States: 1979-81. The Cuban-born population of the United States, enumerated at 608,000 in the 1980 census, has been little studied with regard to cancer mortality. Being older and rarely migrating back to Cuba, Cuban Americans present a good subject for comparative cancer mortality. Age-adjusted death rates for selected causes of cancer are compared in this paper for Cubans in Cuba, the Cuban-born in the United States, and all whites in the United States. Two forms of cancer have been of particular concern in Cuba, cancer of the lung and cancer of the prostate, because of their relatively high death rates. The age-adjusted death rates for both of these cancers are lower among the Cuban-born in the United States than they are among Cubans in Cuba and whites in the United States. Death rates for cancer of the cervix and cancer of the rectum among the Cuban-born in this country are also low relative to Cubans in Cuba and whites in the United States. Stomach cancer mortality among Cuban-born men in the United States is lower than for men in Cuba or for white men in the United States, but Cuban-born women in this country have rates that are slightly higher than those of U.S white women. Mortality rates from colon cancer in both sexes and breast cancer among women are intermediate between the lower rates in Cuba and the higher rates among U.S. whites. Finally, the Cuban-born in the United States have higher death rates from cancer of the liver than do Cubans in Cuba or whites in the United States. 
SPECT, MRI and cognitive functions in multiple sclerosis. Seventeen patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) and mild physical disability had neuropsychological testing, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) using technetium 99m (99mTc) hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO). Performance in verbal fluency, naming and memory testing appeared to be impaired in MS patients compared with 17 age-sex and education matched normal controls. Weighted periventricular and confluent lesion scores and the width of the third ventricle, proved to be the most sensitive MRI measures in differentiating more cognitively impaired patients from those who were relatively unimpaired. Ratios of regional to whole brain activity, measured by SPECT, showed significant reduction in the frontal lobes and in the left temporal lobe of MS patients. A relationship was found between left temporal abnormality in 99mTc-HMPAO uptake and deficit in verbal fluency and verbal memory. Finally, asymmetrical lobar activity indicated a predominant left rather than right temporo-parietal involvement. 
Antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of enalapril and slow-release verapamil in essential hypertension: a double-blind, cross-over study. The antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of enalapril (E) and slow-release verapamil (V) were compared in a 2-month double-blind cross-over study in 22 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. After 1 month, significantly lower systolic (P less than 0.01) and diastolic (P less than 0.02) blood pressures (BP) were achieved with E, 20 mg d-1, compared with V, 240 mg d-1. After 2 months of treatment, BP reductions were similar after E, 40 mg d-1, and V, 240 mg twice a day. The fall in supine mean BP after 2 months of treatment with V was significantly greater in patients aged greater than or equal to 50 years of age (P = 0.02) (median 18 mmHg) than in patients aged less than 50 years (10 mmHg). E showed similar effectiveness in both age groups. Statistical group analysis of a quality-of-life questionnaire showed no significant differences between the active drugs and the placebo. It is concluded that E and V are equally effective as antihypertensive agents, and that both drugs are well tolerated. 
Thermal laser-assisted balloon angioplasty of the superficial femoral artery: a multicenter review of 602 cases. A multicenter review of 602 procedures was performed to evaluate the effects of thermal laser-assisted balloon angioplasty on the superficial femoral artery. Four hundred thirty-nine (73%) patients underwent laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for claudication, and 163 (27%) underwent the procedure for limb salvage. Two hundred ninety-two laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures were performed for multifocal stenotic disease (greater than 80%) diameter reduction), 258 for total occlusion, and 52 procedures for both superficial femoral artery stenosis and occlusion. The initial recanalization rate was 89% (538/602) depending on the length of the lesion. Success of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty was verified by angioscopy or arteriography, and all patients underwent segmental Doppler studies before discharge and during midterm follow-up extending to 30 months (mean, 11.3 months). Complications occurred in 62 (10%) patients, but only one limb amputation occurred because of a complication related to a laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. Overall, 60% of initially successful procedures have remained patent, but long segment (greater than 7 cm) occlusions have fared poorly (25% patency at 30 months). This minimally invasive technology affords the opportunity to treat short segment (less than 7 cm) symptomatic superficial femoral artery occlusive disease with minimal risk. Initial success and midterm patency rates for appropriate lesions appear to make laser-assisted balloon angioplasty a viable adjunct in the treatment of superficial femoral artery occlusive disease. 
Smoking-attributable cancer mortality in 1991: is lung cancer now the leading cause of death among smokers in the United States? Findings from the new American Cancer Society prospective study of 1.2 million men and women indicate that mortality risks among smokers have increased substantially for most of the eight major cancer sites causally associated with cigarette smoking. Lung cancer risk for male smokers doubled, while the risk for females increased more than fourfold. On the basis of the new American Cancer Society relative risks, we project that cigarette smoking alone will contribute to slightly more than 157,000 of the 514,000 total cancer deaths expected to occur in the United States in 1991. Overall, smoking directly contributes to 21.5% of all cancer deaths in women but 45% of all cancer deaths in men. It would also appear that lung cancer has now displaced coronary heart disease as the single leading cause of excess mortality among smokers in the United States. 
Reentrant excitation around a fixed obstacle in uniform anisotropic ventricular myocardium BACKGROUND. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of tissue anisotropy and dispersion of refractoriness on initiation of reentrant ventricular tachycardia (VT). METHODS AND RESULTS. A ring of perfused uniform anisotropic ventricular epicardium in Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts was created by an endocardial freezing technique. High-resolution mapping (248 channels) was used to analyze epicardial activation of the left ventricle. One to three premature beats were induced at a total of 272 points in 17 experiments (16 different points around the ring in each experiment). Reentrant VT could be initiated at 43 of the 272 points tested. The cycle length of VT was stable and ranged from 128 to 198 msec (mean, 161 +/- 19 msec). Correlation between conduction velocity and the angle between the circulating activation wave and epicardial fiber orientation showed that in segments of the ring where conduction was perpendicular to the fiber axis, mean conduction velocity was 25 +/- 5 cm/sec compared with 60 +/- 7 cm/sec when conduction was parallel to the fiber orientation. Analysis of the site of unidirectional conduction block showed that in 41 of 43 cases, block occurred while the impulse was propagating parallel to the fiber orientation. Measurement of the refractory periods at either side of the line of unidirectional block showed that only in 12 of 43 cases did block occur while the impulse was propagating into an area with a longer (more than 10 msec) refractory period. CONCLUSIONS. In uniform anisotropic ventricular myocardium, reentrant VT is initiated because lowering the stimulating efficacy of the depolarization wave by premature beats leads to preferential conduction block parallel to the fiber orientation. 
Pharmacologic treatment of heart failure. An increased understanding of the pathophysiologic changes underlying CHF, advanced monitoring technology, and a wider array of drug therapy have improved the prognosis of patients with this disorder. These advances allow for greater individualization of therapy, improve patient compliance, and lower the incidence of undesirable side effects. Of course, with the increase in complexity of treatment choices comes the need for more knowledgeable practitioners who can select the most appropriate therapeutic approach. All practitioners also must make every effort to educate the patients about their disease, treatments, and necessary lifestyle changes so that optimal benefits can be realized. 
Subglottic cyst in a newborn. Subglottic laryngeal cysts in the newborn are extremely rare. It is difficult to establish if the cyst is acquired or congenital because respiratory distress requires intubation in the I.C.U. generally without prior endoscopy. A case report is presented, followed by a discussion of possible aetiology and management protocol; the advantages of the CO2 laser make excision of the cystic sac possible without tracheotomy. 
Seroepidemiology of Helicobacter pylori infection in India. Comparison of developing and developed countries. Helicobacter pylori (previously Campylobacter pylori) is now accepted as the major cause of type B gastritis and thus what is known about the epidemiology of type B gastritis can reasonably be transferred to H. pylori. We used a specific ELISA for anti-H. pylori IgG to study the prevalence of H. pylori infection in a population of lower socioeconomic class from Hyderabad, India. The results from India were compared to studies from other parts of the world. Two hundred thirty-eight individuals ages 3 to 70 participated. The frequency of H. pylori infection increased with age (P less than 0.01) and was greater than 80% by age 20. H. pylori infection was present in 79% of the population studied; there was no gender-related difference in prevalence of H. pylori infection. IgG antibody against hepatitis A (HAV) was rapidly acquired in Hyderabad; in a subset of 58 children between the ages of 3 and 21 tested, the frequency of anti-HAV was 98.2%. The prevalence of H. pylori infection increases with age in both developed and developing countries. The high age-specific prevalence of H. pylori infection in developing countries is probably a reflection of the lower socioeconomic level of those areas. 
Systemic and splanchnic hemodynamic effects of molsidomine in rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis. Molsidomine, a long-acting vasodilator mainly used as an antianginal agent, was reported to decrease the portohepatic venous pressure gradient in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. This study investigated the effects of linsidomine, the active metabolite of molsidomine, on systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics in rats with CCl4-induced cirrhosis using the microsphere technique. Compared with placebo-treated rats, linsidomine-treated animals were found to have a significant decrease in portal venous pressure (-18%, p less than 0.01) and in mean arterial pressure (-16%, p less than 0.01), smaller peripheral resistances (p less than 0.01), greater portal venous inflow (p less than 0.05), smaller splanchnic arteriolar resistances (p less than 0.01) and smaller protocol-lateral resistances (p less than 0.05). Cardiac output, hepatic arterial blood flow, portal blood flow and estimated hepatic blood flow were not significantly different between the two groups of animals. Linsidomine-treated rats exhibited a trend toward greater collateral blood flow compared with controls, but this difference was not significant. We conclude that linsidomine decreases portal venous pressure by reducing portocollateral resistances without affecting liver blood flow. These effects should be beneficial for patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension. 
Cervical anterior spinal artery syndrome associated with cardiopulmonary arrest. Nontraumatic spinal cord ischemia is uncommon, especially when the cervical cord is involved. We present an elderly man who sustained acute occlusion of the anterior spinal artery at a high cervical level. This was followed by a respiratory arrest due to the paralysis of the diaphragm and chest wall muscles. A review of the vascular supply to the cord and of nontraumatic ischemic myelopathy is provided. 
Intermediate procedures after first-stage Norwood operation facilitate subsequent repair. Actuarial analysis of survival after first-stage palliative reconstructive operation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome has revealed a high out-of-hospital attrition rate over the first 18 months to 2 years postoperatively. Some of this mortality is related to development of anatomical problems such as restrictive atrial septal defect, neoaortic arch obstruction, and pulmonary artery distortion. The bidirectional Glenn shunt has proved to be an ideal adjunctive procedure for high-risk patients at the time of operation to correct such intermediate-term problems. The fenestrated Fontan procedure, which involves fenestration of the interatrial baffle placed as part of our current standard Fontan procedure, is applied for patients considered to be at moderate risk for a Fontan procedure. The decision regarding closure of the fenestration is made by hemodynamic study including temporary balloon occlusion of the fenestration. The fenestration is closed with the double-clamshell device, which is placed percutaneously in the catheterization laboratory and which is currently used for secundum atrial septal defect closure. Appropriate selection of patients for the bidirectional Glenn shunt or fenestrated Fontan procedure with or without fenestration closure has resulted in a dramatic decrease in mortality and morbidity for patients with all forms of single ventricle and for patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. 
Supratentorial dermoid cysts. Supratentorial dermoid cysts are rare lesions. In eight cases presented here, the lack of recurrence after subtotal removal of the capsule and the good long-term prognosis are emphasized. This finding is in agreement with the literature. The frequent relationship of these lesions with the cavernous sinus suggests a vascular genesis in the development of intracranial dermoid cysts. 
Epilepsy and employment. A community based survey in an area of high unemployment. A community based survey was undertaken to assess the work record of patients with epilepsy in an area of high unemployment. One hundred and thirty seven epileptic patients were identified from a population of 23,837 persons of employable age registered with three urban group practices in North East England. The unemployment rate for economically active patients with epilepsy was 46% compared with 19% for an age and sex matched control population (p less than 0.01). Fifty nine per cent of patients with active epilepsy were unemployed. In those with an associated neurological or psychiatric handicap and those who were unskilled manual workers the unemployment rates were 79% and 77%, respectively. Patients with epilepsy were less likely to leave school with qualifications or undergo subsequent training or apprenticeships. They were more likely to be unskilled manual workers, single and living in rented accommodation. In an area of high unemployment patients with epilepsy have disproportionately greater difficulty finding work. High unemployment rates among patients with epilepsy are only one aspect of a spectrum of social and economic disadvantage. 
p53 mutations in human lymphoid malignancies: association with Burkitt lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We have investigated the frequency of p53 mutations in B- and T-cell human lymphoid malignancies, including acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the major subtypes of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. p53 exons 5-9 were studied by using genomic DNA from 197 primary tumors and 27 cell lines by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and by direct sequencing of PCR-amplified fragments. Mutations were found associated with (i) Burkitt lymphoma (9/27 biopsies; 17/27 cell lines) and its leukemic counterpart L3-type B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (5/9), both of which also carry activated c-myc oncogenes, and (ii) B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (6/40) and, in particular, its stage of progression known as Richter's transformation (3/7). Mutations were not found at any significant frequency in other types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In many cases, only the mutated allele was detectable, implying loss of the normal allele. These results suggest that (i) significant differences in the frequency of p53 mutations are present among subtypes of neoplasms derived from the same tissue; (ii) p53 may play a role in tumor progression in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia; (iii) the presence of both p53 loss/inactivation and c-myc oncogene activation may be important in the pathogenesis of Burkitt lymphoma and its leukemic form L3-type B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 
Renal cell carcinoma with inferior vena caval involvement. Renal cell carcinoma extends into the lumen of the inferior vena cava in approximately 4% of patients at the time of diagnosis. Surgical removal of the intracaval tumor thrombus with radical nephrectomy is the preferred treatment for this malignancy. From January 1977 to June 1990, 31 such patients were examined for combined problems of renal carcinoma and intracaval tumor extension. Twenty-six of these patients underwent radical nephrectomy and vena caval thrombectomy. Ten patients had tumor thrombus confined to the infrahepatic vena cava, 11 had retrohepatic caval involvement, and 5 had extension to the level of the diaphragm or into the right atrium. Surgical approach was dictated by the level of caval involvement. Control of the suprahepatic vena cava plus temporary occlusion of hepatic arterial and portal venous inflow were necessary in some cases; cardiopulmonary bypass was required for transatrial removal of more extensive tumors. Five of the 26 patients had evidence before operation of distant metastatic disease; none of these survived beyond 12 months. The 5-year actuarial survival rate of the 21 patients without known preoperative metastatic disease was 57%. Complete surgical excision of all gross tumor appears to be critical for long-term survival in these patients. 
Eosinophil activation and T lymphocyte infiltration in allergen-induced late phase skin reactions and classical delayed-type hypersensitivity. T lymphocyte infiltration is a well documented feature of classical delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. Recently, we have shown that T lymphocytes and activated (EG2+) eosinophils accumulate in the allergen-induced late phase skin reaction (LPR). To compare the kinetics and phenotypic composition of these T lymphocyte responses, LPR and DTH reactions of comparable induration size were induced in atopic subjects. In addition, DTH and LPR were compared between atopic and nonatopic subjects. In atopic individuals, allergen challenge elicited a perivascular influx of T lymphocytes that was predominantly CD4+. Eosinophil accumulation and activation were also prominent. There was no cellular response to allergen challenge in the nonatropic group. In both groups, DTH responses showed an intense T cell infiltrate which was more dense and dispersed than in the LPR. CD4+ T cells predominated but at 48 h CD8+ numbers were also significantly increased. In DTH, total leukocyte numbers (CD45+) were increasing at 48 h, whereas in the LPR, cell numbers reached a plateau between 24 and 48 h. T cell activation (shown by expression of IL-2R) was more prominent in DTH. Endothelial expression of HLA-DR was increased in both LPR and DTH, implying the local release of inflammatory cytokines in both reactions. Small but significant numbers of activated eosinophils (EG2+) were detected in atopics and non-atopics at 24 h in DTH but not at 48 h. These findings suggest that the allergen-induced LPR induced in atopic subjects is, at least in part, a form of cell-mediated hypersensitivity but with T cell kinetics that differ from classical DTH. 
Double-blind comparison of perindopril and captopril in hypertension. Effects on left ventricular morphology and function. Using digitized M-mode echocardiograms, we compared, in a double-blind study, the effects of 4 to 8 mg perindopril given once daily and 25 to 50 mg captopril given twice daily on the left ventricle (LV) in 20 hypertensive patients. Both treatments significantly (P less than .001) lowered blood pressure, reducing systemic vascular resistances. After 3 months both drugs induced a comparable percentage of reduction in LV mass, with an increase in the peak rate of LV relaxation and no changes in the peak rate of LV contraction. Our results demonstrate that perindopril once daily is an effective antihypertensive agent; it is also able, like captopril, to induce regression of LV hypertrophy, with improvement in diastolic performance and no deterioration in ventricular systolic function. 
Optic neuropathy and central nervous system disease secondary to Sjogren's syndrome in a child. The authors describe a 10-year-old girl in whom optic neuropathy and central nervous system (CNS) disease developed in association with primary Sjogren's syndrome. There was angiographic evidence of cerebral vasculitis and multiple infarcts present on neuroimaging. Results of parotid biopsy, cerebrospinal fluid, and serologic analyses showed abnormalities that were consistent with the diagnosis of Sjogren's syndrome. Although the patient had optic disc pallor on initial evaluation, her color vision and acuity improved with immunosuppressive therapy, as did her other neurologic symptoms. The authors believe this represents the first reported case of optic neuropathy and CNS disease associated with primary Sjogren's syndrome in the pediatric population. The possibility of improvement in visual function with early institution of immunosuppressive therapy makes prompt diagnosis essential. 
Posthypoxic myoclonus (the Lance-Adams syndrome) in the intensive care unit. The neurological assessment of patients admitted to the intensive care unit after successful resuscitation from cardiopulmonary arrest may be difficult. We describe the cases of two patients who developed myoclonus within 24 hours of hypoxic respiratory and cardiac arrest. Initially, the clonic movements were thought to be generalised convulsions and were treated as such, until it became evident that the patients were aware and distressed. Posthypoxic myoclonus is a rare complication of successful cardiopulmonary resusitation. Recognition depends on the awareness that the syndrome exists, and is important so that correct therapy can be instituted. There may be important prognostic implications. Both our patients had normal intellectual recovery with moderate residual neurological disability from their movement disorder. 
Trauma-precipitated migrainous hemiparesis. Migraine is a pleomorphic condition in which neurologic manifestations may be absent or a minor or a major feature. Similarly, head injury may range from trivial to lethal with regard to neurologic morbidity. Migraine may be precipitated by a variety of stimuli, including head trauma, significant or trivial. Presented is the case of a patient with migrainous hemiparesis precipitated by minor head injury. The clinical features and laboratory and radiological findings of trauma-precipitated migraine are reviewed. 
The development of a Norwegian pain questionnaire. The study was undertaken to develop a multidimensional measuring instrument for pain in the Norwegian language. The McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) was used as a model as it is a valid and reliable tool for pain measurement in English speaking countries. A series of steps were taken to develop a Norwegian pain questionnaire: (1) words describing pain were derived from 95 subjects (patients, students and health personnel); (2) 10 subjects allocated pain descriptors into groups; (3) 36 college student validated the word groupings; (4) 72 patients graded the words contained in each group according to intensity; and (5) the reliability of group items was tested. The study demonstrated that there are many descriptors of pain in the Norwegian language. The final version of the Norwegian pain questionnaire consisted of 106 pain descriptors divided into 18 groups. Validity of the classifications as well as reliability of the words was demonstrated. The actual value of the Norwegian pain questionnaire as a measuring instrument has not yet been documented. 
Ventricular arrhythmias. When should they be suppressed? Patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature complexes who do not have evidence of heart disease should not be treated with either class I or class III (Vaughan Williams) antiarrhythmic drugs. Patients who are symptomatic may be given beta blockers. In patients who have heart disease, a number of risk factors may play a part, and the decision regarding therapy is more difficult. However, symptomatic patients with either sustained or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia must be treated with antiarrhythmic agents. In some patients, implantation of an automatic defibrillator may be necessary. 
Effect of atenolol on myocardial infarct expansion in a nonreperfused rat model. Acute myocardial infarct expansion is associated with a poor prognosis. This study was performed to assess potential beneficial effects of beta-blockers on inhibiting expansion. A pilot study showed that atenolol (10 mg/kg) achieved sustained beta-blockade in rats. In the main study, following left coronary ligation, 36 rats received atenolol and 18 rats received placebo daily for 7 days. Infarct size was similar in treated and control rats (25 +/- 13% versus 28 +/- 11%). Expansion grades and a quantitative index of expansion were similar for both groups. Infarct size and expansion index were significantly related, but linear regression lines were similar for treated and control rats. We conclude that atenolol has no significant effect on infarct expansion in this nonreperfused rat model. 
Rubber-specific IgE in children with spina bifida. We attempted to determine the prevalence and clinical significance of rubber-specific IgE in a prospective case control study of 32 preoperative children with spina bifida, compared with 45 outpatient controls and 35 age-matched preoperative controls without spina bifida. A latex-specific radioallergosorbent test was positive in 11 of the 32 spina bifida patients (34%), compared with 1 (2%) and 4 (11%) of the respective controls (p less than 0.05). Within the spina bifida group 5 of 11 antibody-positive patients had a history of rubber-associated, intraoperative or otherwise idiopathic allergic episodes and 1 of 21 antibody-negative patients gave such a history (p = 0.012). Children with spina bifida have a significantly greater likelihood than controls of having IgE specific for rubber antigens. In addition, the presence of rubber-specific IgE is associated with a higher frequency of rubber-associated, intraoperative or idiopathic allergic reactions. 
Thrombolytic and pharmacokinetic properties of a conjugate of recombinant single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator with a monoclonal antibody specific for cross-linked fibrin in a baboon venous thrombosis model Chemical conjugates between recombinant single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (rscu-PA) and a murine monoclonal antibody directed against fragment D-dimer of cross-linked human fibrin (MA-15C5), rscu-PA/MA-15C5, and between rscu-PA and a control monoclonal antibody (MA-1C8), rscu-PA/MA-1C8, were produced by cross-linking with N-succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio) propionate (SPDP). In an in vitro system composed of a [125 I]fibrin-labeled baboon plasma clot immersed in autologous citrated plasma, dose- and time-dependent lysis was obtained with a ratio of the potencies of free and conjugated rscu-PA similar to that in human plasma: 50% lysis in 2 hours required 4.3 micrograms/ml rscu-PA, 1.0 microgram/ml urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) equivalent rscu-PA/MA-15C5, or 15 micrograms/ml u-PA equivalent rscu-PA/MA-1C8. The thrombolytic and pharmacokinetic properties of rscu-PA and of rscu-PA/MA-15C5 were compared in baboons with a 0.8-1.0 ml [125 I]fibrin-labeled autologous blood clot produced in a femoral vein. Continuous intravenous infusion of these compounds during a 2-hour period resulted in dose- and time-dependent lysis. The thrombolytic potency of rscu-PA/MA-15C5 was 3.0 +/- 0.5 times higher (50% lysis with 0.3 +/- 0.02 mg u-PA equivalent/kg body wt) than that of rscu-PA measured by ex vivo isotope recovery from the femoral vein segment (p less than 0.001) and was 2.7 +/- 0.5 times higher (50% lysis with 0.35 +/- 0.02 mg/kg rscu-PA/MA-15C5) by external radioisotope counting (p less than 0.001). A dose of 0.5 mg/kg of rscu-PA/MA-1C8 was much less active than rscu-PA. After the end of the infusion, u-PA-related antigen disappeared from plasma in a biphasic manner with an initial half-time of 2.7 +/- 0.5 for rscu-PA, 24 +/- 1.2 for rscu-PA/MA-15C5, and 21 +/- 0.5 minutes for rscu-PA/MA-1C8 with corresponding plasma clearances of 340 +/- 40, 20 +/- 3, and 24 +/- 2 ml/min, respectively. In conclusion, the increased thrombolytic potency of rscu-PA/MA-15C5 is the result of a reduction of the thrombolytic potency due to coupling of rscu-PA to the antibody molecule, which is counter-balanced by an enhancement of the thrombolytic potency due to fibrin targeting by the specific idiotype. 
Effect of acute hypoxia on respiration and brain stem blood flow in the piglet. Changes in local brain stem perfusion that alter extracellular fluid Pco2 and/or [H+] near central chemoreceptors may contribute to the decrease in respiration observed during hypoxia after peripheral chemoreceptor denervation and to the delayed decrease observed during hypoxia in the newborn. In this study, we measured the changes in respiration and brain stem blood flow (BBF) during 2-4 min of hypoxic hypoxia in both intact and denervated piglets and calculated the changes in brain stem Pco2 and [H+] that would be expected to occur as a result of the changes in BBF. All animals were anesthetized, spontaneously breathing, and between 2 and 7 days of age. Respiratory and other variables were measured before and during hypoxia in all animals, and BBF (microspheres) was measured in a subgroup of intact and denervated animals at 0, 30, and 260 s and at 0 and 80 s, respectively. During hypoxia, minute ventilation increased and then decreased (biphasic response) in the intact animals but decreased only in the denervated animals. BBF increased in a near linear fashion, and calculated brain stem extracellular fluid Pco2 and [H+] decreased over the first 80 s both before and after denervation. We speculate that a rapid increase in BBF during acute hypoxia decreases brain stem extracellular fluid Pco2 and [H+], which, in turn, negatively modulate the increase in respiratory drive produced by peripheral chemoreceptor input to the central respiratory generator. 
Embolic abscesses in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is an inherited disorder in which patients may have multiple telangiectases and arteriovenous fistulas in the skin and internal organs. Patients can suffer from a variety of serious clinical complications, including abscess formation. We report two patients in whom neurologic symptoms developed from embolic abscesses, one for whom this complication was fatal. The reported incidence and microbiologic features of this complication are similar to that of endocarditis in patients with valvular heart disease. We believe that patients with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia should receive similar antibacterial prophylaxis for procedures placing them at risk for bacteremia. 
Tumor necrosis factor (cachectin) in human visceral leishmaniasis. High tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) levels were present in the serum of 24 of 28 active visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients (142.9 +/- 113.9 pg/ml, mean +/- SD), whereas levels were not elevated in 26 of 30 patients with cryptic leishmanial infection (16 asymptomatic, 4 with self-healing subclinical infection, and 10 posttreatment VL cases). Serum TNF alpha levels were also not elevated in 15 normal volunteers (11.3 +/- 15.6 pg/ml) and in 10 patients with tegumentary leishmaniasis (19.1 +/- 10.8 pg/ml). Leishmanial infection of human monocyte-derived macrophages enhanced the basal TNF alpha production by these cells, and this effect was further potentiated by treatment with recombinant interferon-gamma. After effective treatment of VL patients, serum TNF alpha levels dropped rapidly (129 +/- 112 vs. 9 +/- 13 pg/ml in 10 days), even before clinical parameters such as spleen size or parasitism, white blood cell count, or levels of hemoglobin returned to normal values. On the other hand, patients unresponsive to treatment remained with elevated levels (276 +/- 69 vs. 155 +/- 71 pg/ml in 10 days). Thus, serum TNF alpha levels in VL patients are a good parameter to monitor in determining host response to therapy. 
Intracranial arteriovenous fistula manifesting as progressive neurological deterioration in an infant: case report. This 1-year-old male infant had been diagnosed with cerebral degenerative disease because he developed psychomotor regression, and brain atrophy was demonstrated on computed tomography. He underwent magnetic resonance imaging, which suggested a cerebrovascular malformation. Cerebral angiography disclosed an arteriovenous fistula, fed by an anterior cerebral artery and directly draining into a cortical vein. The occlusion of the feeding artery was followed by a satisfactory recovery. The mechanism of the neurological symptoms in this patient is thought to be caused by a steal phenomenon and compression of the brain stem by venous engorgement in the posterior fossa. 
Use of the Souter-Strathclyde total elbow prosthesis in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis. Thirty-three patients had thirty-four consecutive primary arthroplasties, with use of the Souter-Strathclyde cemented unconstrained prosthesis, for severe rheumatoid arthritis of the elbow. The minimum duration of follow-up for inclusion in the study was two years. Three patients died. Four arthroplasties were revised: three, because of irreducible dislocation immediately after the operation and one, because of loosening without infection. One prosthesis was removed because of a late deep infection. In most of the remaining twenty-five patients (twenty-six arthroplasties), who had an average duration of follow-up of four years (range, two to eight years), pain was markedly less or had resolved completely, and the function of the elbow was greatly improved. 
Utility of a transdermal delivery system for antihypertensive therapy. Part 1. A retrospective evaluation of patient-level Medicaid claims data from two states was undertaken to discern the fiscal utility of transdermally delivered clonidine versus both the oral formulation of clonidine and oral formulations of eight other antihypertensive agents. In the first phase of our two-part study, we compared paid claims data (n = 1,135) from Florida for transdermal and oral clonidine. Multivariate regression analysis was used to evaluate the incremental impact of six variables on health-care expenditures in the first year after patients were given a diagnosis of hypertension. These variables were: age, gender, prior utilization of medical services, regimen complexity, and dosage formulation. Patients prescribed transdermal clonidine experienced a significant (p less than or equal to 0.001) increase in prescription expenditures and significant reductions in the use of physician (p less than or equal to 0.05), laboratory (p less than or equal to 0.10), and hospital (p less than or equal to 0.05) services. Moreover, savings were maximized (p less than or equal to 0.001) where multi-drug regimens incorporated the transdermal delivery system. In the second phase of our study we compared paid claims data (n = 8,894) from South Carolina for transdermal clonidine and for nine oral antihypertensive agents: atenolol, captopril, clonidine, diltiazem, enalapril, metoprolol, prazosin, terazosin, and verapamil-SR. Once again, regression analysis was used, this time to evaluate the incremental impact of five variables on health-care expenditures in the first year post diagnosis: age, gender, prior utilization of medical services, regimen complexity, and Medication Possession Ratio (MPR), an index of compliance. The data from part 2 of our study revealed that patients assigned a b.i.d. oral antihypertensive agent experienced a significant reduction (p less than or equal to 0.05) in MPR and a significant (p less than 0.05) increase in health-care expenditures when compared to patients prescribed the transdermal delivery system and to patients prescribed once-daily oral medications. These data confirm previous findings concerning the impact of complicated dosing regimens on compliance in hypertensive patients. In this two-part paper we report the data from both phases of our study. 
The role of intraluminal radiotherapy and concurrent 5-fluorouracil infusion in the management of carcinoma esophagus: a pilot study. Fifty patients with carcinoma of the esophagus were entered in a randomized pilot study to test the efficacy of intraluminal radiotherapy (ILRT) and concurrent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) infusion. The median age was 65 years, with 80% having middle third lesions; in 62%, the lesions were longer than 5 cm. After external beam therapy of 50 Gy in 5 weeks, patients were randomized to receive chemotherapy. Significant improvement in dysphagia was recorded in 76% patients with complete response in 47 cases ranging from 6 to 27 months. The overall survival at 2 years was 15% with ILRT alone versus 22% with ILRT plus 5-FU infusion. 
High-intensity focused ultrasound in the treatment of experimental liver cancer. High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) was used to treat Morris rat hepatoma 3924A implanted in the liver. Treatment was administered with a lens-focused 4-MHz transducer that created a focused beam of 550 W/cm2 at peak intensity. One hundred twelve rats with liver tumors were divided into two groups of 56 each. Group 1 received HIFU therapy while group 2 (the control group) did not. All rats were killed immediately or 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, or 28 days after treatment. Eight rats in each group were killed at each interval for pathologic and biochemical studies. Significant inhibition of the tumor growth was seen in the HIFU-treated group, with tumor growth inhibition rates of 65.4% to 93.1% from the third to the 28th day after treatment. Ultrasound-treated tumors showed direct thermal cytotoxic necrosis and fibrosis. An additional 56 ACl rats with liver tumors were divided into four groups of 14 each. Group 1 received doxorubicin hydrochloride intraperitoneally and HIFU therapy; group 2, HIFU therapy; group 3, doxorubicin hydrochloride; and group 4 (the control group), neither HIFU nor doxorubicin hydrochloride. Significantly improved survival rates were noted in HIFU-treated animals (groups 1 and 2) compared with those of groups 3 and 4. These data suggest that HIFU may be a useful method for local treatment of hepatic tumors. 
Liver tumor promotion: effect of phenobarbital on EGF and protein kinase C signal transduction and transforming growth factor-beta 1 expression. Phenobarbital (PB) added to the medium of cultured rat hepatocytes alters epidermal growth factor (EGF) dependent mitogenesis in a biphasic manner; PB concentrations less than 1.5 mM are growth stimulatory but higher concentrations significantly inhibit normal hepatocyte proliferation. In contrast, the growth of putative preneoplastic cells is inhibited less by high concentrations of PB. Mechanistic studies designed to test the ability of PB to alter the early events of EGF signal transduction demonstrate that PB neither competes with EGF for binding to the EGF receptor nor alters EGF-induced receptor down-regulation. However, pretreatment with PB (greater than 1 mM) results in a transient inhibition of EGF binding to hepatocytes. The kinetics of this effect are similar to those obtained when hepatocytes are exposed to the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), a skin tumor promoter and activator of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C. However, several observations suggest that distinct mechanisms mediate the responses to these two tumor promoters. First, the inhibitory effects of PB and TPA on EGF binding are additive. Also down-regulation of EGF receptors in response to TPA occurs with hepatocytes, A431 epidermal carcinoma cells, HepG2 hepatoma cells, and rat liver epithelial cells, but only hepatocytes are sensitive to PB. Furthermore, translocation of protein kinase C to the membrane occurs in hepatocytes treated with TPA but not in those treated with PB. The chronic treatment of rats with PB further sensitizes hepatocytes to EGF receptor down-regulation by in vitro PB while desensitizing them to EGF receptor down-regulation by TPA. This latter effect is correlated with a decreased ability of TPA to induce translocation of protein kinase C to the membrane. PB significantly increases the intracellular concentration of TGF-beta 1 in periportal hepatocytes but not in putative preneoplastic cells. TGF-beta 1 may therefore have an important function in regulating early stages of cell cycle progression in proliferating hepatocytes. 
Otologic sequelae after pneumococcal meningitis: a survey of 164 consecutive cases with a follow-up of 94 survivors. As part of a comprehensive study on sequelae after pneumococcal meningitis, 94 of 111 consecutive survivors were re-examined 4 to 16 years after discharge. Twenty-three patients had otological sequelae after pneumococcal meningitis. In these patients, 17 had hearing losses, 7 had tinnitus, 9 had vertigo, 13 had vestibular areflexia, 4 had loss of smell, and 3 had loss of taste. Among the patients with hearing loss, 4 were bilaterally deaf, 6 were unilaterally deaf, and 2 had mild and 5 had slight hearing losses. From correlations with extensive data from the medical records, preadmission antibiotic treatment appeared to protect from acousticovestibular damage. Purulent otitis media and otosurgical intervention did not correlate to the fatality rate or the development of sequelae. Acute purulent otitis media appeared as a concomitant manifestation, rather than the focus of pneumococcal meningitis. 
Large cysts of the pineal gland: report of two cases. Two cases of large, nontumorous cysts of the pineal gland are reported, the histopathology of which was confirmed using surgically resected specimens. Both patients were middle-aged, and the pineal cysts were found incidentally. The histopathological findings in the two cases were strikingly similar to each other and were characterized by the following points: 1) the cyst wall typically consisted of three layers, namely, collagenous fibers, glia-like cells, and normal pineal cells; 2) the cyst wall was relatively thin, approximately 100 to 300 microns in thickness; and 3) deposits of calcification almost always existed on the side of the layer of collagenous fiber. Because these findings are clearly different from those previously reported, large benign cysts of the pineal gland, or at least some of them, may constitute a new pathological entity. It is important to consider this possible pathological diagnosis when dealing with pineal cysts. 
Value of ultrasound in differentiating causes of persistent vomiting in infants. A prospective study of abdominal ultrasound was undertaken in 100 consecutive infants who presented with a history of persistent vomiting aged 5 to 90 days. Each infant had a 'test feed' followed by an ultrasonographic scan of the pylorus at the cotside. On test feeding a palpable tumour was evident in 38 infants. On real time ultrasound using the criteria for diagnosing pyloric stenosis, these 38 infants as well as six others were documented as having pyloric stenosis. In the other 56 patients the vomiting settled in six and a barium examination was performed on the remaining 50. This confirmed gastro-oesophageal reflux in 46, two of whom had an associated hiatus hernia, one with a duodenal malrotation, and three were reported as normal. Ultrasound of the abdomen is an accurate, reliable, and rapid screening method to differentiate the causes of severe vomiting in infancy. 
Use of intravenous immunoglobulin in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A brief review. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disorder with multiple defects leading to an increased susceptibility to infection. Hypogammaglobulinemia is present in about 20% to 70% of patients with CLL. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) supplementation (400 mg/kg body weight every 3 weeks) prevented bacterial infections in these patients. An ongoing study is being conducted to compare doses of 250 mg/kg/mo with those of 500 mg/kg/mo in 36 patients included so far. As of this writing, the rate of infection in the two treatment groups was not significantly different, and no substantial loss of protection against bacterial infection was found in the lower-dose group. It seems likely that the lower dose is almost as effective as the standard therapy. If this is so, cost savings would be substantial. 
The role of the pathologist in the management of breast cancer. The pathologist is a consultant in breast cancer management whose responsibility is to establish the histologic diagnosis of cancer as well as its anatomic extent once sufficient tissue has been provided. The consultation also provides data that may be used to aid in selecting primary or adjuvant therapy, evaluating new therapies, estimating prognosis, and assessing outcome. Examples of such data are the TNM histopathologic classification of the anatomic extent of the cancer used for the stage grouping (T = the extent of the primary tumor, N = the absence or presence and extent of regional lymph node metastasis, and M = the absence or presence of distant metastasis); tumor size, histologic type, and histologic and/or nuclear grade; assessment of blood vessel and lymphatic vessel invasion; analysis of steroid receptors, and other special studies as appropriate. 
Perinatal mycoplasmal infections. Maternal infections are known to play a major role in perinatal morbidity and mortality. Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis are sexually transmissible microorganisms associated with a number of pathologic conditions in the pregnant woman including chorioamnionitis and postpartum fever. They are rapidly gaining recognition as significant causes of perinatal infection, especially in infants born prematurely. This review summarizes current knowledge regarding the epidemiology, pathology, disease spectrum, and clinical manifestations of mycoplasmal and ureaplasmal perinatal infections and presents guidelines for proper diagnosis and treatment. 
Dying of cancer: a patient's recollection of her illness and of her doctors. A personal account of a patient's long ordeal with cancer of the tongue is presented. The explicit journal begins at the time that a lesion was first detected and ends approximately 4 1/2 years later, just 8 1/2 months before the patient's death from local disease. Important principles of clinical diagnosis and patient management, vividly underscored by this case, are reviewed and discussed. 
Liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease, viral hepatitis, and hepatic neoplasms. In closing, it is important to note that the indications for liver transplantation are not static but rather are remarkably dynamic and capable of change over time. Thus yesterday's major indications can become relative contraindications, while yesterday's absolute contraindications have become today's nuisances. The goal for physicians who care for individuals with problems such as alcoholic liver disease, viral hepatitis, and hepatic cancer should be to develop new strategies of care that will ultimately eliminate these diseases as problems, rather than eliminating individuals with such health problems from currently available health options. In other words, physicians who accept the responsibility for a patient's life should be searching for the best form of therapy available for their patient rather than examining the reasons that exist for limiting one's choice in health care. 
Chorea-acanthocytosis: abnormal composition of covalently bound fatty acids of erythrocyte membrane proteins. Phospholipid class, peak profile of each phospholipid class, loosely bound fatty acids, covalently (tightly) bound fatty acids of the erythrocyte membranes, and plasma fatty acids were investigated using high-performance liquid chromatography in six patients with chorea-acanthocytosis and 14 age- and sex-matched normal control subjects. Additionally, six patients with Huntington's disease were included as disease control subjects in the study of covalently bound fatty acids. Study of covalently (tightly) bound fatty acids in erythrocyte membrane proteins after alkaline hydrolysis, hitherto undescribed in chorea-acanthocytosis, revealed that palmitic acid (C16:0) was significantly increased and stearic acid (C18:0) was decreased in the patients with chorea-acanthocytosis. Analyses for total covalently bound fatty acids disclosed that palmitic and docosahexaenoic (C22:6) acids were increased and stearic acid was decreased in chorea-acanthocytosis. Phospholipid class (phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingomyelin, and phosphatidylserine) and peak profile of each phospholipid class from the erythrocyte membranes did not differ between the patients with chorea-acanthocytosis and the control subjects. Of the loosely bound fatty acids, linoleic acid (C18:2) was significantly decreased in those with chorea-acanthocytosis, which seemed to be nonspecific. 
Observations on massive retrieved human allografts. Radiographic and histological studies of sixteen massive retrieved human allografts were carried out after the allografts had been in situ for four to sixty-five months. The studies demonstrated that union between the allograft and the host took place slowly at cortical-cortical junctions by the formation of an external callus derived from the cortex of the host, and it took place more rapidly at cancellous-cancellous junctions by internal callus advancing from the host into the allograft. Internal repair took place very slowly, was confined to the superficial surface and the ends of the graft, and had involved only 20 per cent of the graft by five years. The deep unrepaired portions of the graft retained their architecture, and where bone cement had been used to fix a prosthetic stem or an intramedullary rod to the allograft, there was no evidence of resorption of bone or loosening of the device. Soft tissues of the host became attached to the graft by deposition of a thin seam of new bone on the surface of the graft. A previous fracture of two grafts had healed before the time of retrieval. Analysis of the articular cartilage revealed no evidence that any chondrocytes had survived, even when the graft had been cryoprotected before it was preserved by freezing. The necrotic cartilage functioned well for as long as five years, and as it degenerated, it was covered by a pannus of fibrovascular reparative tissue. Two allografts that had been removed because of rejection were surrounded by an envelope of chronic inflammatory tissue that prevented union, adherence of soft tissue, and internal repair. Internal repair was more advanced about sites of fracture and adjacent to recurrent tumors than in other portions of the graft. These findings suggest that large frozen allografts in humans are osteoconductive rather than osteoinductive. 
Improved speed and accuracy of calculations with a programmable calculator in pediatric emergency scenarios. Both mathematical and selection errors may occur when ordering drug or fluid therapy in a busy emergency department. In an attempt to improve the speed and accuracy of such calculations, we programmed a hand-held calculator to assist in drug and intravenous fluid therapy dosages and rates for three emergency situations: diabetic ketoacidosis, asthma, and asystole. Performance by 58 subjects at various levels of training was compared when using either the programmable calculator or standard materials and methods. When standard methods were used, an average of 30.6 minutes was needed to complete the three scenarios, with an accuracy of 73%; by contrast, use of programmable calculator resulted in a significant decline in time needed to calculate doses (an average of only 8.5 minutes), with an improved accuracy of 98%. The use of a programmable calculator can result in a significant improvement in both speed and accuracy of drug and fluid selection and dosage and rate calculations, regardless of the level of the subject's medical training. 
Antiarrhythmic actions of tocainide in canine models of previous myocardial infarction. The antiarrhythmic and antifibrillatory efficacies of the class IB antiarrhythmic agent tocainide were characterized in conscious dogs in the early subacute phase of anterior myocardial infarction (48 hours after infarction) and in anesthetized dogs with ventricular tachyarrhythmias that were inducible by programmed stimulation more chronically (10.8 +/- 1.0 days) after anterior myocardial infarction. The frequency of spontaneous premature ventricular complexes in the early subacute postinfarction phase was reduced significantly from 48.4% +/- 10.5% to 8.2% +/- 5.0% of total complexes (p less than 0.01) by the cumulative intravenous administration of 10 mg/kg tocainide. In the late postinfarction setting, the intravenous administration of tocainide (6 mg/kg intravenous loading dose + 100 micrograms/kg/min intravenous maintenance infusion) suppressed the initiation of ventricular tachyarrhythmias by programmed stimulation in 5 of 12 animals that were tested and slowed the rate of tachycardia in 3 additional animals. However, the incidence of ventricular fibrillation and of the total number of arrhythmia-related deaths that resulted from the occurrence of a secondary ischemic insult in the presence of previous infarction did not differ significantly between tocainide (75% [9 of 12] incidence of both ventricular fibrillation and of total number of arrhythmia-related deaths) and saline-vehicle control groups (80% [12 of 15] incidence of ventricular fibrillation; 93.3% [14 of 15] incidence of total number of arrhythmia-related deaths). These findings suggest that although class I agents such as tocainide may be efficacious in the suppression of spontaneous premature ventricular complexes and ventricular arrhythmias immediately after myocardial infarction, they may be of limited value in the prevention of malignant ischemic arrhythmias that occur later after myocardial infarction. 
Colonic fermentation of dietary fibre to short chain fatty acids in patients with adenomatous polyps and colonic cancer. Short chain (C2-C6) fatty acids are produced in the colon through bacterial fermentation of mainly dietary fibre. Butyrate (C4) possesses antineoplastic effects on human colon carcinoma cells, and epidemiological studies indicate that high fibre diets may reduce the incidence of colorectal cancer. The role of dietary fibre during colorectal carcinogenesis might therefore be related to its fermentation to butyrate. Faecal concentrations of total short chain fatty acids and concentrations and ratios of the individual C2-C6 fatty acids did not differ between 16 healthy controls, 17 patients with colonic adenomas, and 17 patients with colonic cancer. Comparison of the molar production velocities (mmol/l.hour) of total and individual short chain fatty acids from glucose, ispagula, wheat bran, and albumin in six and 24 hour faecal incubations showed no differences. The ratio of butyrate production to total short chain fatty acid production from fibre, however, was reduced in patients with colonic cancer and adenomas compared with healthy controls (ispagula, six hours: 6.4, 7.6, and 11.5% respectively, p = 0.005 and 24 hour: 9.1, 9.9, and 15.4%, p = 0.002; wheat bran, six hours: 9.9, 10.2, and 14.7% respectively, p = 0.06 and 24 hours: 15.1, 16.8, and 21.0%, p = 0.01). It may be that the low ratios of colonic butyrate formation combined with low fibre diets increase the risk of colonic neoplasia. 
Left ventricular function and wall thickness in long-term insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: an echocardiographic study. Left ventricular function and wall thickness were evaluated in 111 type I diabetic subjects (mean age 25.5 +/- 9 years, mean duration of diabetes 13.4 +/- 6.2 years), using 2-D-derived M-mode echocardiography. Patients were carefully selected for the absence of major coronary risk factors or manifest cardiac disorders, and compared with 91 age- and sex-matched control subjects. Fractional shortening and the maximal velocity of cirumferential fibre shortening did not differ significantly between the two groups. Furthermore, no differences were found in the diastolic functional parameter of velocity of circumferential fibre extension. Posterior wall thickness was significantly increased in the diabetic patients compared to the controls (9.5 +/- 1.8 mm vs. 8.4 +/- 1.3 mm. P less than 0.01). As the thickness of the interventricular septum was also moderately increased (9.2 +/- 2.2 mm vs. 8.9 +/- 1.7 mm, NS), these findings provide evidence for an early structural change of the myocardium in young diabetic patients without clinically relevant functional consequences. 
Human high molecular weight melanoma-associated antigen mimicry by mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibody MK2-23. Characterization of the immunogenicity in syngeneic hosts. Previous studies have shown that the mouse antiidiotypic mAb MK2-23 elicited with the syngeneic anti-human high molecular weight melanoma-associated Ag (HMW-MAA) mAb 763.74 elicits anti-HMW-MAA antibodies in syngeneic hosts and in patients with melanoma. The present investigation has characterized the fine specificity of antibodies elicited by mAb MK2-23, tested its ability to induce delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to HMW-MAA-bearing melanoma cells and analyzed the variables that influence the immunogenicity of mAb MK2-23. The anti-HMW-MAA antibodies elicited by mAb MK2-23 recognize the same population of molecules recognized by mAb 763.74, react with the same (or spatially close) determinant(s) and express the idiotopes recognized by mAb MK2-23 in their Ag-combining sites. The antiidiotypic antibodies that bind to HMW-MAA have a lower titer than those that do not. These results in conjunction with those obtained in mice using a suboptimal immunization schedule suggest that the idiotope(s) that mimic(s) the mAb 763.74-defined determinant of the HMW-MAA is less immunogenic than those that do not. mAb MK2-23 induces a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to HMW-MAA-bearing melanoma cells. Therefore, mAb MK2-23 represents the first example of mouse antiidiotypic mAb that induces a cellular and humoral immunity to a human tumor-associated Ag (TAA), because the previously described mouse antiidiotypic mAb that bear the mirror image of TAA have been shown to induce only humoral anti-TAA immunity. The immunogenicity of mAb MK2-23 is markedly enhanced by its conjugation to keyhole limpet hemocyanin and its administration with FA. Furthermore, the number of immunizations and the doses of mAb MK2-23 injected influence its immunogenicity, although to a lower extent than conjugation to a carrier and mixing with an adjuvant. The information derived from the present investigation represents a useful background to optimize the immunization schedule with mAb MK2-23 in patients with melanoma. 
Patterns of postictal cerebral blood flow in temporal lobe epilepsy: qualitative and quantitative analysis. We used single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to study postictal cerebral blood flow (CBF) in 51 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. There were 78 seizures studied, 77 by early postictal injection of Tc-99m HMPAO (delay from seizure onset = 4.3 +/- 4.5 min) and one by ictal injection. Increased focal temporal lobe uptake, predominantly confined to the anteromesial region, was present in 83% and declined rapidly over 5 minutes. Reduced activity in the lateral temporal lobe accompanied the mesial increase in 80% of studies, extending over much of the ipsilateral hemisphere and closely associated with the degree and extent of postictal EEG slow waves. These patterns enabled correct seizure localization by blinded analysis in 69% (31/45) of the patients with a unilateral EEG focus. The remainder showed bilateral or no changes. One of six patients with bitemporal EEG foci had unilateral perfusion changes. The positive predictive value for the correct localization of a unilateral focus by postictal SPECT was 97% (31/32). Postictal CBF imaging with SPECT can be used to support noninvasive electrographic localization and may decrease the need for invasive electrode studies. 
Serum-erythropoietin concentration during acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Reduced oxygen tension is regarded as the primary physiologic signal for the production of erythropoietin (EPO). There is little information available about early changes of EPO production in man due to severe hypoxia. The purpose of the present study was to examine the time course of EPO in serum of patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema (ACPE). In 29 patients (seventy-five +/- six years, mean age +/- SEM) who were hospitalized within two hours after onset of symptoms of ACPE, serum EPO concentrations were monitored for up to seventy-two hours. At the moment of admission all patients showed significantly increased EPO concentrations of 121 +/- 64 mU/mL (mean +/- SEM) compared with a healthy population (15-35 mU/mL). Twenty-three patients who recovered within thirty minutes (group A) exhibited a quick return of their EPO serum levels to normal. The remaining 6 patients (group B) had a protracted clinical course and their EPO concentration showed a further increase up to the end of the observation period. The comparative monitoring of concentrations of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor, antithrombin III, C-reactive protein, fibronectin, hapotoglobin, and transerrin in serum and plasma revealed no significant changes. Thus a major contribution of fluid shifts into or from the intravascular compartment to the observed changes in EPO concentration seems to be unlikely. The data suggest that the production and release of EPO in the kidneys due to altered oxygen delivery is a fast-responding mechanism. 
Coronary angioplasty using new 6 French guiding catheters. Coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was performed with specially constructed 6-French guiding catheters with an internal lumen of 0.051 inches. In 154 patients these guiding catheters were used in a variety of configurations in conjunction with miniature balloon-on-a-wire dilatation catheters in 1.5 to 3.5 mm sizes to perform PTCA. Overall patient success was 94%. PTCA was attempted in 24 totally occluded arteries with a success rate of 83% and 174 stenoses with a success rate of 97%. 6 French guiding catheters can be used to successfully perform PTCA. 
Validity of diurnal sleep recording in the diagnosis of sleep apnea syndrome. Two polysomnographic studies were performed in 35 subjects who had a clinical suspicion of sleep apnea syndrome: one study was done at night (N) (from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.) and the other during the day (D) starting after lunch (from noon to 5:00 p.m.). N and D sleep studies were performed in random order at a minimal interval of 36 h. No treatment (drug, CPAP) was initiated between the two studies. Both studies included the recording of sleep stages (EEG, EOG, EMG), nasal and mouth flows, thoracoabdominal movements, electrocardiogram, and SaO2 (ear oximetry). D sleep was present in all but one subject. As expected, the total sleep time (TST) was significantly shorter during the D than during the N study (2.6 +/- 0.2 and 6.2 +/- 0.2 h, respectively, mean +/- SEM, p less than 0.001, Wilcoxon's signed-rank test). Stages III-IV and REM were significantly less represented during the D (13.1 +/- 2.4 and 7.7 +/- 1.3%, respectively) than during the N study (18.5 +/- 1.7 and 15.3 +/- 0.8%, p less than or equal to 0.005). From the results of the N study, the diagnosis of sleep apnea syndrome (apnea index greater than 5 and/or apnea + hypopnea index greater than 10) was made in 25 patients, and it was confirmed by the same criteria in 22 by the D sleep recording. There was a significant correlation between the N and D values for these indices (r greater than or equal to 0.9, p less than 0.0001). 
Role of sinus node artery disease in sick sinus syndrome in inferior wall acute myocardial infarction. This study was undertaken to evaluate a possible role of sinus node (SN) artery disease in the pathogenesis of sick sinus syndrome (SSS) in patients with an inferior wall acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Coronary angiography and electrophysiologic studies of the SN, both in the basal state and after pharmacologic autonomic blockade, were performed in 23 study patients (mean age 60 years) with SSS and a previous inferior wall AMI and in another 23 control patients (mean age 57 years) with normal sinus rate and a previous inferior AMI. Stenosis of the SN artery (or that proximal to its origin) greater than 50% was present in 13 study patients (56%) and in 8 control patients (34%) (p less than 0.05). In the study group, the intrinsic heart rate was abnormal in 5 of the 6 patients (83%) with severe SN artery stenosis (greater than or equal to 75% narrowing), in 3 of the 7 (43%) with moderate stenosis (50 to 75% narrowing) and in 3 of the 10 (30%) with insignificant stenosis (less than 50% narrowing). In the study group, the correlation between the SN measures (heart rate, corrected SN recovery time and sinoatrial conduction time) and the severity of SN artery stenosis was good after autonomic blockade (r between 0.59 and 0.64) and poor in the basal state. These data provide evidence for a role of SN artery disease in the pathogenesis of SSS in patients with an inferior wall AMI. 
Peripheral neuropathy in cold agglutinin disease. Cold agglutinin disease (CAD) characteristically presents as anemia and cold-induced rash. We report a man with purpura, anemia, cold agglutinins, and a sensory-autonomic polyneuropathy. Treatment with corticosteroids and plasma exchange resulted in resolution of the anemia and polyneuropathy. We propose that CAD may be associated with a reversible sensory-autonomic neuropathy in the absence of cryoglobulinemia. Although unsupported by pathologic findings, pathogenetic hypotheses for the neuropathy in CAD are similar to those proposed for cryoglobulinemic neuropathy. 
Inverted papilloma of the nose and paranasal sinuses: a study of 67 patients. Retrospectively, 67 patients with inverted nasal papillomas were studied. In 12, the lesions were localized exclusively on the nasal septum. In 55, the lesion involved the lateral wall and/or the paranasal sinuses. There was a male predominance of 3:1. After histological revision the most dominating epithelial type was found to be transitional. Inverted papilloma was in one patient associated with squamous cell carcinoma. Ten per cent suffered recurrences from 6 to 37 months after the primary surgical procedure. We found that limited septal lesions could be managed by an intranasal procedure but lateral rhinotomy is recommended as the procedure of choice in the treatment of inverted papilloma of the lateral wall. 
Interferon-induced chronic active hepatitis? A 54-year-old man with chronic B hepatitis was treated with interferon alfa. Despite resolution of the hepatitis B viral infection, he experienced severe jaundice, ascites, and encephalopathy. Further work-up showed hyperglobulinemia, chiefly immunoglobulin G, and positive smooth muscle and anti-nuclear antibodies. Because of these "autoimmune" features, the patient was treated with prednisone. One month later, a significant clinical and biochemical improvement was observed. A possible autoimmune mechanism induced by interferon alfa is proposed as the cause for the perpetuation of the necroinflammatory activity. 
Microvascular angina. Cardiovascular investigations regarding pathophysiology and management. A significant minority of patients with chest pain who undergo cardiac catheterization are found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries. Over the past 25 years, several studies have shown that a subset have demonstrable abnormalities in coronary flow and cardiac function; however, only a minority of these patients have convincing evidence for myocardial ischemia during stress, and alternative mechanisms have been explored to explain the frequent and debilitating symptoms of pain experienced by the majority of these patients undergoing study. Abnormal visceral nociception appears to be a fundamental abnormality in this population, whether or not demonstrable abnormalities in coronary flow or cardiac function can be demonstrated. 
Neobladder construction using completely detubularized sigmoid colon after radical cystoprostatectomy. To improve the quality of life of the patient we used completely detubularized sigmoid colon for bladder reconstruction along with radical cystoprostatectomy in 6 men with invasive bladder cancer. Followup was 8 to 20 months. Postoperatively, all of the patients were continent during the day but only 4 (66.7%) were continent at night, although they had to awaken twice to remain dry. Neocystourethroscopy in 4 of the 6 patients revealed no tumor and no stricture at the urethrocolonic anastomosis. However, a stone in the neobladder was found in 1 patients. Urodynamic study of the neobladder showed a low pressure (mean 16.7 cm. water) at the filling phase of water cystometry and an adequate maximal urethral closure pressure (mean 52.0 cm. water) and functional profile length (mean 3.8 cm.). The uroflow rate in all patients was good (1 patient even had a maximal uroflow rate of 31 ml. per second). There was no reflux in any patient. One patient had intestinal obstruction 5 months postoperatively and died 5 months later of widespread metastasis. The remaining 5 patients are alive with a satisfactory quality of life. In conclusion, use of completely detubularized sigmoid colon may be an ideal operation for neobladder construction after radical cystoprostatectomy. 
Hemodynamic and clinical benefits with intravenous milrinone in severe chronic heart failure: results of a multicenter study in the United States. The response of patients with chronic severe heart failure to extended infusions (greater than or equal to 48 hours) of milrinone was evaluated in a multicenter, baseline-controlled, phase III efficacy and safety trial in 189 patients in the United States. Milrinone was given as loading and maintenance infusions according to one of four dose regimens. An effective response was defined as greater than or equal to 20% increases in cardiac index or decreases in pulmonary wedge pressure. All loading doses (range, 37.5 to 75 micrograms/kg/10 min) were effective short term, and maximum response occurred at 15 minutes. For the three effective regimens, cardiac index increased initially (at 15 minutes) by 24% to 42%, and pulmonary wedge pressure decreased by 24% to 33%. Systemic vascular resistance was reduced by 15% to 31%. The maximal acute response was effective in 99% of individual patients. During maintenance therapy, effective responses were seen at infusion doses of 0.375, 0.50, and 0.75 micrograms/kg/min, whereas an infusion of 0.25 micrograms/kg/min was ineffective. During 2 days of maintenance therapy, cardiac index remained augmented by 34% to 39% for the low and intermediate doses and by 44% to 73% for the high-dose infusion regimen. Pulmonary wedge pressure decreased an average of 18% on day 1 and 30% on day 2. Systemic vascular resistance was reduced by 20% to 25%, and stroke work index was augmented by 21% to 58%. Symptomatic improvement was common during intravenous milrinone therapy for symptoms of dyspnea (61% response), orthopnea (63%), edema (62%), and fatigue (40%). Improvement occurred more frequently in those with worse baseline functional indexes and in those with greater hemodynamic responses to therapy. Safety and tolerance were exceptionally good for these patients with advanced heart failure. 
Indicators of prognosis after hepatic resection for colorectal secondaries. From 1960 to 1988, 266 patients underwent resection of colorectal secondaries to the liver with curative intent. All patients were followed until April 1, 1990, or death, with a median follow-up time of 52 months. Nine patients with minimal macroscopic residual disease and 38 patients with all gross tumor removed but positive margins showed a poor prognosis with a median survival time of 13.3 months, the longest being 42 months. Of the 219 patients having potentially curative resection, 12 patients died postoperatively (5.5%). Actuarial 5, 10 and 20-year survival for the remaining 207 patients was 39%, 28%, and 18%, respectively. At April 1, 1990, 77 patients were alive with no evidence of disease for up to 24 years, and 12 patients had died without recurrence. The following factors were associated with less favorable crude survival: presence and extent of mesenteric lymph node involvement (p = 0.0003), grade III/IV primary tumor (p = 0.035), synchronous diagnosis of metastases (p = 0.017), satellite metastases (p = 0.0003), limited resection margins (p = 0.019), and nonanatomic procedures (p = 0.013). With respect to disease-free survival, grading of the primary (p = 0.055) and the extent of clear margins (p = 0.019) failed to achieve statistical significance. Two other criteria are commonly recommended as absolute contraindications to hepatic resection: extrahepatic disease and the presence of four or more independent metastases. A radical excision of all detectable disease may rarely be possible in these circumstances. Nevertheless, within the curative settings, no significant predictive value regarding either overall or disease-free survival was found in this series. Three corresponding "high risk" patients are alive without disease at 5 to 11 years from hepatic resection. These patients with more advanced intrahepatic or concomitant limited extrahepatic disease require a particularly thorough diagnostic work up. As no superior therapeutic alternative is currently available, an aggressive surgical approach may occasionally be justified, and may, in a small portion, result in definite tumor control. 
Dysplasia epiphysealis capitis femoris. Meyer's dysplasia. We made a prospective longitudinal clinical and radiological study of 18 children diagnosed as having dysplasia epiphysealis capitis femoris. Half the cases were bilateral. Boys were affected five times more often than girls. There were no symptoms or clinical signs in most but some of the bilateral cases had an inconsistent waddling gait. The imaging studies suggest that the cartilaginous proximal femoral epiphysis is hypoplastic, with delayed appearance of single or multiple ossification centres. Progressive improvement occurred and at an average age of five years and six months, there was complete fusion of all the ossific nuclei and normal density and texture of the epiphyseal bone. The end result was a round epiphysis with a slightly diminished height. The dysplasia is attributed to focal hypoplasia of the proximal femoral epiphysis. 
Cardiovascular disease, motor-vehicle-related injury, and use of clinical preventive services--behavioral risk factor surveillance system, 1989. CDC's Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), a state-based method for risk factor surveillance, was implemented in 1984. By 1989, 39 states and the District of Columbia participated in monthly random-digit-dialed telephone interviews of adults greater than or equal to 18 years of age (1). A total of 66,867 interviews were conducted in 1989; state-specific sample sizes ranged from 1171 to 3415 (mean: 1672). This report summarizes results of the 1989 survey and compares them with 1988 for risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease, motor-vehicle-related injury, and use of clinical preventive services. 
Platelet-activating effect of low-density lipoprotein and its reversal by isradipine. The effect of the calcium antagonist isradipine on platelet aggregation (induced ex vivo by serotonin and low-density lipoprotein [LDL]) was studied in 17 nonsmoking patients with essential hypertension. Platelet aggregation was measured after a four-week placebo period, and after four and 12 weeks of treatment with isradipine. Both the serotonin-induced and the LDL plus serotonin-induced platelet aggregation were significantly decreased after four weeks of isradipine treatment compared with placebo. The amplifying effect of LDL on the serotonin-induced aggregation was significant both after placebo and after active treatment with isradipine. A further decrease in platelet aggregation induced by LDL plus serotonin was observed after 12 weeks of isradipine treatment so that no amplification of serotonin-induced aggregation by LDL could be detected. In conclusion, it appears that treatment with isradipine restores the impaired platelet response to serotonin and LDL in hypertensive patients. The inhibition of this response may represent a cellular mechanism of thrombovascular protection. 
Treatment of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure caused by chlorine exposure [published erratum appears in Pediatr Emerg Care 1991 Jun;7(3):151] Chlorine inhalation may rapidly cause pulmonary edema, leading to acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. We report a 12 year old with acute respiratory failure from inhalation injury after he accidentally dropped chlorine tablets into a swimming pool. Supplemental oxygen alone failed to provide adequate arterial oxygenation. We administered positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) in the emergency department, resulting in markedly improved oxygenation. Early institution of PEEP should be considered in patients with chlorine poisoning when supplemental oxygen alone is insufficient. 
Abnormally high level of C4b binding protein and deficiency of free fraction of protein S in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and recurrent thromboses. A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and numerous thrombotic accidents was found to have a deficiency of the free fraction of protein S, most likely due to an abnormally high level of C4b binding protein. These abnormalities, unique in comparison to 4 other patients with hypercoagulation states, were partially corrected with cyclophosphamide. There was no evidence of a consumption of complement components. The interactions between the hemostasis system and the complement cascade are discussed. 
Binding of the adenovirus VAI RNA to the interferon-induced 68-kDa protein kinase correlates with function. In human cells infected with adenovirus, the virus-associated RNA VAI blocks the activation of the interferon-induced double-stranded-RNA-dependent 68-kDa protein kinase (p68) and maintains normal levels of protein synthesis at late times after infection. VAI antagonizes the kinase activity by binding to p68. The structure of VAI consists of two long, base-paired stems connected by a complex short stem-loop structure. Previous work using a series of adenovirus mutants showed that the structural determinants of the VAI RNA that are essential for function reside in the central complex short stem-loop structure and adjacent base-paired regions (functional domain); the long duplex regions were found to be dispensable for function. To determine whether binding of VAI to p68 correlates with function and whether the structural determinants that are essential for function are also essential for binding, we studied the interaction of wild-type and several mutant VAI RNAs with p68 in whole cells. The p68-VAI complexes from mutant- and wild-type-infected cells were immunoprecipitated by an anti-p68 monoclonal antibody. The mutant RNAs that functioned efficiently in the cells bound to p68 efficiently in the cells, whereas functionally impaired mutants failed to bind to p68, indicating that the binding of the VAI RNA to p68 correlates well with function. In vitro binding assays with immunopurified p68 confirmed these observations. Secondary-structure analysis of several mutant VAI RNAs suggests that the binding does not depend on the long duplex regions but requires all the elements of the functional domain. We propose that the functional domain and the p68-binding domain of the VAI RNA are identical. 
Insulin action and metabolism in patients with head and neck cancer. Cachexia is a phenomenon commonly observed in patients with cancer, but its etiology is poorly understood. Abnormalities of insulin action and metabolism that have been hypothesized to promote cancer cachexia were investigated in this study using a computerized euglycemic clamp and modified frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIGT) in a group of malnourished patients with localized head and neck cancer, and in healthy, well-nourished, age- and, sex-matched controls. Glucose disposal rates, determined by the euglycemic clamp at three different rates of insulin infusion did not differ significantly between the two groups. However, mean plasma insulin concentrations at each level of insulin infused were significantly lower in the patients with cancer than in the control subjects resulting in unexpectedly higher calculated insulin metabolic clearance rate in the patients with cancer. Peripheral insulin sensitivity calculated from the slope of glucose disposal versus plasma insulin concentration did not differ between the two groups. Results from the FSIGT demonstrated no difference in insulin sensitivity or insulin-independent glucose disappearance between the two groups. However, whole body glucose appearance was significantly elevated in the patients with cancer. Thus, increased whole body glucose utilization in the absence of insulin resistance or increased insulin-dependent glucose disposal was observed. These data are consistent with the concept of a localized tumor acting as a glucose drain in which case increased glucose appearance and increased insulin clearance would defend against hypoglycemia. 
Focal myositis, a benign inflammatory pseudotumour: CT appearances. Focal myositis is a rare benign pseudotumour of skeletal muscle, of unknown cause. Clinically it presents as an enlarging mass within muscle, usually of an extremity, and is often mistaken for a soft tissue neoplasm. The diagnosis is made by biopsy which reveals characteristic histological changes of inflammation, focal degeneration and regeneration, and some evidence of denervation. The CT findings include irregularity and enlargement of the muscles involved, with diffuse, poorly defined fatty infiltration of the muscle planes, but no evidence of an associated mass. We present two cases of focal myositis of the calf, both of which mimicked a soft tissue neoplasm, and in which CT was helpful in determining the nature and extent of the abnormality, for needle biopsy, and follow-up. 
Role of radiation after operative palliation in cancer of the proximal bile ducts. Cancer of the proximal bile ducts continues to pose a formidable problem to even the most experienced biliary surgeon. From 1977 through 1985, 51 patients with histologically confirmed proximal bile duct cancers underwent surgical treatment. The lesion was confined to the hilar region in 30 patients; there was extensive hepatic infiltration or distant metastatic disease in 21 patients. One patient underwent resection. Biopsy only was performed in six patients. In the remaining 44 patients, transtumoral dilation and intubation were performed. These 44 patients were further analyzed with regard to how survival was affected by the presence of metastatic disease and by the adjunctive use of radiation therapy. Mean survival in those patients with metastatic disease (n = 16) was 6.1 months, and survival was not improved by the use of postoperative radiation. In the absence of metastatic or advanced local disease, however, the addition of external beam radiation did significantly extend the mean survival from 4.5 to 12.2 months and the median survival from 2.2 to 12.2 months. The operative mortality for the series was 14% and postoperative complications occurred in 18 patients. These findings suggest that the addition of external beam radiation improves survival in patients undergoing palliative treatment of hilar tumors. Further confirmation of the value of radiation awaits prospective investigation. 
Hemodynamic and electrophysiological actions of cocaine. Effects of sodium bicarbonate as an antidote in dogs. BACKGROUND. Cocaine abuse has been implicated as a cause of death due to sudden cardiac arrest. METHODS AND RESULTS. We examined the hemodynamic and electrophysiological effects of cocaine administered as a series of 5-mg/kg i.v. boluses coupled with a continuous infusion in anesthetized dogs. Sodium bicarbonate (50 meq i.v.) was administered as a potential antidote in 11 of 15 dogs, and intravenous 5% dextrose was given in the remaining four. In a dose-dependent fashion, cocaine significantly decreased blood pressure, coronary blood flow, and cardiac output; increased PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals and sinus cycle length; and increased ventricular effective refractory period and dispersion of ventricular refractoriness. No afterdepolarizations were noted in the monophasic action potential recording. Nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia occurred spontaneously in two dogs, and sustained ventricular tachycardia could be induced by programmed stimulation at the end of the dosing protocol in five of 11 animals. Sodium bicarbonate promptly decreased cocaine-induced QRS prolongation to nearly that measured at baseline but had no effect on the other electrocardiographic or hemodynamic variables. In one dog, sodium bicarbonate administration was associated with reversion of ventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that high-dose cocaine possesses negative inotropic and potent type I electrophysiological effects. Sodium bicarbonate selectively reversed cocaine-induced QRS prolongation and may be a useful treatment of ventricular arrhythmias associated with slowed ventricular conduction in the setting of cocaine overdose. 
Hospitalisation of prostatic cancer patients undergoing orchiectomy. We report our experience with 100 orchiectomies for advanced prostatic cancer in hospitalised patients. Approximately 60% of the patients required hospitalisation for additional treatment and investigation of complications due to their disease at the time of orchiectomy. In 51 cases the orchiectomy was combined with transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP); 37 patients had pathological levels of serum creatinine and 17 had pathological dilatation of the upper urinary tract, 6 of whom required a nephrostomy catheter. Because of anaemia on admission, 21 patients received a peri-operative blood transfusion. Two patients had significant post-operative bleeding, 2 developed a wound infection and 1 had a deep thrombophlebitis. The patients' mean age was 76.4 years and the period of hospitalisation ranged from 3 to 150 days with peaks at 3 and 8 days. The most important reason for prolonged hospitalisation was social problems. It was concluded that many patients who were hospitalised as a direct consequence of their prostatic carcinoma would have been in hospital for a similar period regardless of the method of hormonal manipulation used. Because so many patients have other reasons for hospitalisation, or require additional surgical procedures such as TURP, the true average cost of orchiectomy for advanced prostatic cancer is difficult to determine. 
Low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) reduces restenosis after iliac angioplasty in the hypercholesterolemic rabbit. Smooth muscle cell proliferation is central to the process of restenosis. Attempts to inhibit the events leading to this proliferation have met with little success. In addition to its known antithrombotic effects, heparin also has inhibitory effects on smooth muscle cell proliferation. These effects appear to be unrelated to its anticoagulant properties and are retained in low molecular weight heparin derivatives. Although the use of heparin for as long as 18 to 24 h after coronary angioplasty in humans has not prevented restenosis, longer treatment periods have not been assessed. This study examines the effect of treatment with a low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) in a hypercholesterolemic rabbit iliac artery model. Control rabbits had a mean iliac artery diameter of 0.70 +/- 0.06 mm, which increased to 1.73 +/- 0.09 mm after balloon angioplasty. At follow-up angiography 4 weeks later, the mean vessel diameter was 0.56 +/- 0.12 mm. Animals treated with low dose enoxaparin (1 mg/kg per day) for 4 weeks and high dose enoxaparin (10 mg/kg per day) for either 2 or 4 weeks had similar mean luminal diameters before and immediately after angioplasty. At follow-up angiography, the mean luminal diameter was 0.82 +/- 0.17 mm for low dose enoxaparin, 1.04 +/- 0.20 mm for 2 week high dose enoxaparin (p = 0.03 versus control) and 1.19 +/- 0.09 mm for 4 week high dose enoxaparin (p = 0.001 versus control). When defined as loss of 50% of the initial gain achieved with angioplasty, restenosis was found in all control vessels. 
Intratumoral cytogenetic heterogeneity in a benign neoplasm. Cytogenetic findings are reported in a 64-year-old man who had a history of rapid growth of a mass in the left groin area. The histopathologic diagnosis of the tumor was consistent with that of a lipoma with atypia. Cytogenetic analysis was done on an incisional biopsy specimen. The initial biopsy specimen revealed, in addition to normal cells, three different clones: 46,XY,t(12;21)(q13;q21), 46,XY, t(2;12)(q11.2'1.2), t(19;20)(q13.1'3), and 47.XY,+ r. The subsequently excised specimen showed a normal male karyotype (46,XY) and a predominant clone with the karyotype, 47,XY,t(2;12)(q11.2'1.2),t(3;11)(p24'5), + r. One cell with 47,XY, + r was present. In addition, polyploid cells with large markers, rings, and a high frequency of telomeric associations were also observed. 
Short-bowel syndrome: a review of the role of nutrition support. Advances in long-term venous access devices and in parenteral nutrition solutions have made it possible for patients with severe short bowel syndrome to survive and to live in our society. The spectrum of this disease is such that some patients may be able to lessen their dependence or even become free from parenteral therapy. This review will discuss the role of nutrition support in the patient with short bowel syndrome. 
A prospective evaluation of arterial intimal injuries in an experimental model. The management of arterial intimal defects remains controversial because of uncertainty concerning their natural history. We developed an experimental canine model to prospectively evaluate posterior wall intimal flaps in the superficial femoral artery. Arterial intimal flaps were constructed in 20 anesthetized dogs (40 arteries) and evaluated by arteriography, and angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasound. Postoperative patency rates at 1 (n = 20) and 3 weeks (n = 20) were compared with a control group of ten animals (n = 20, arteriotomy without intimal flap). Acute thromboses occurred in five experimental arteries with thromboses of eight additional experimental arteries at followup. Control patency was 100%, while experimental group patencies were 75% (p less than 0.05) at 1 week and 60% (p less than 0.009) at 3 weeks. All thrombosed arteries had intimal flaps with greater than 75% luminal stenosis. We conclude that intimal injuries cause arterial thromboses acutely and during subsequent followup. Intimal flaps with stenosis greater than 75% as determined arteriographically are at greatest risk for thrombosis. Angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound characterize arterial intimal defects and may delineate injuries requiring surgical or endovascular repair. 
Successful treatment of primary amebic meningoencephalitis. The fourth documented survivor of primary amebic meningoencephalitis, a young man with a history of waterskiing in a stagnant freshwater lake in northeastern Pennsylvania, is presented. Early consideration of this unusual diagnosis, based on historical factors (recent contact with warm fresh water), coupled with prompt aggressive therapy with high-dose amphotericin B is emphasized in achieving a successful outcome. 
Secretory IgA- and IgG-coated bacteria in chronically discharging ears. SIgA- and IgG-coated bacteria obtained from 17 discharging middle ears (14 patients, 9 male, 5 female, age range from 1 to 79 years) were evaluated using an immunofluorescence assay. Simultaneously, quantitative and qualitative bacteriological analyses of the middle ear effusions (MEEs) were performed. MEEs containing Staphylococcus aureus harboured bacteria which were intensely coated with both SIgA and IgG antibodies. In contrast, MEEs containing Pseudomonas aeruginosa displayed minimal, if any, SIgA- and IgG-coated bacteria. Two young patients harboured bacteria (Haemophilus influenzae and S. aureus/Streptococcus pneumoniae, respectively) which were heavily coated with IgG, but not with SIgA. Immunoglobulin-coating of bacteria involved in otitis media is of the utmost importance in eradication of the infection. 
A case of granulomatous hepatitis after intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration. A 61-year-old man received intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) as treatment for superficial bladder carcinoma. High spiking relapsing fevers began 39 days after the initial treatment. A liver biopsy revealed noncaseating granuloma. Deoxyribonucleic acid hybridization of the bone marrow was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. Pressure exerted to instill the BCG may have favored dissemination. 
Effects of pulsed Nd:YAG laser on the surface of rabbit retina. Six albino rabbits were subjected to pulsed Nd:YAG laser irradiation to the retinal surface to determine whether such treatment would lead to proliferative vitreoretinopathy. Choroidal, retinal, and preretinal hemorrhages, noted at the time of treatment, resolved after 7 to 10 days. Histological examination showed no signs of anterior segment damage or proliferative vitreoretinopathy. These preliminary findings suggest that more extensive experimentation is warranted to determine if pulsed Nd:YAG laser may in fact safely be used to separate vitreoretinal adhesions in the treatment of retinal detachment. 
Cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa and ulcerative colitis. Vasculitis in many forms has been reported rarely in association with ulcerative colitis. We report the occurrence of necrotizing vasculitis in a 48-year-old man 19 years after the onset of ulcerative colitis and 5 years after total colectomy with rectal preservation. The disease was limited to small arteries of skin and muscle consistent with the syndrome of cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa that has been reported with regional enteritis but not previously with ulcerative colitis. 
Neurologic complications of infective endocarditis. Neurologic syndromes often complicate the management of infective endocarditis (IE). We retrospectively reviewed 166 episodes of native valve endocarditis to assess the occurrence and implications of nonfocal encephalopathy, meningitis, salient headache, back pain, and brain abscess. Neurologic complications occurred in 35% (58/166) of patients: 41% (54/133) of mitral or aortic valve IE and 12% (4/33) of tricuspid valve IE. Of 133 cases of mitral or aortic valve IE, encephalopathy occurred in 14%, meningitis in 5%, and salient headache in 3%. All neurologic complications occurred more often with Staphylococcus aureus infection (67%) than with viridans streptococci (22%), including encephalopathy (22% versus 7%), meningitis (17% versus 0%), stroke (39% versus 16%), and death (39% versus 9%). Encephalopathy was associated with virulent organisms, increased patient age, and uncontrolled infection. Clinical, radiologic, and neuropathologic data all suggest that infective microemboli are often etiologic in IE-related encephalopathy. There were no macroscopic brain abscesses clinically identified. Meningitis occurred only with virulent organisms. While many clinical aspects of IE have changed in recent years, the frequency and gravity of neurologic complications have not. 
p53 in chronic myelogenous leukemia in acute phase. All patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) undergo clinical transition from chronic to acute phase. This transition is often associated with deletion of the short arm of chromosome 17 in the form of the i(17q) aberration. Since the p53 gene is a suppressor gene and is located on 17p13, we examined the possibility that it is inactivated during progression of CML. Therefore, we studied the structure and expression of p53 in the leukemic cells of a large number of CML patients in acute phase. We found that although the gene is rarely rearranged, one p53 allele is completely deleted in patients with the i(17q) aberration as well as in some patients who do not show karyotypic changes. In all of these patients the remaining allele is inactivated through loss of expression, rearrangement, or point mutation. Detailed analysis of some patients who carry both p53 alleles indicated neither loss of expression nor structural alterations. It appears that p53 loss of function is associated with progression of around 25% of CML patients. 
Early postoperative sternal approximation after ITA harvesting: computed tomographic evaluation. Between November 1989 and February 1990, 66 randomized sternotomized patients underwent aortocoronary bypass and were subjected to a sternal scanner in the early postoperative period. Each examination included a manubrial and a sternal body print. At each level, we studied the occurrence of spacing or misalignment of the sternal layers. The 66 patients were subdivided into four groups according to the type of conduit harvested (single left internal thoracic artery or saphenous vein) and the type of material used for the sternal closure (steel wires or nylon yarns). In all cases, adequate early sternal approximation, which is represented by a good alignment as well as by an excellent contact of the sternal layers, was infrequently demonstrated. Moreover, the two abnormalities most often observed were manubrial spacing and sternal body misalignment. The sternal closure technique and internal thoracic artery harvesting had no significant effect on the sternal approximation. To minimize manubrial spacing and sternal body misalignment, we propose that the surgeon should apply three threads through the manubrium, withdraw the shoulder roll beforehand, elevate both of the patient's shoulders, and maintain the two xyphoid layers in the same plane and in fairly close contact during the tightening of the wires. 
Exophytic signet-ring cell carcinoma of the colorectum Previous studies have assessed colorectal signet-ring cell carcinomas of the linitis plastica variant but not of the exophytic subtype. We retrospectively reviewed 20 cases of colorectal signet-ring cell carcinoma of the exophytic subtype (greater than 50% signet-ring cells). The patients ranged in age from 14 to 79 years (mean, 51.8 years); 10 were male; 17 were white; and three were black. Ten tumors were colonic (eight, right sided; two, left sided) and 10 were rectal; seven were stage B and 12 were stage C. One patient presented with distant metastases. Eleven of 16 tumors assessed by flow cytometry were diploid. Parenchymal hepatic metastases developed in only two patients. The overall 5-year survival rate was 36%, and matched cases did not vary significantly in survival from typical nonmucinous adenocarcinomas. There was a trend toward poorer survival for patients with advanced-stage tumor. Survival was not affected by primary site, ploidy, presence of vascular/lymphatic invasion or residual adenoma, or percentage of extracellular mucin or signet-ring cells. Our cases were somewhat lower stage than literature cases of signet-ring cell carcinoma of the lintis plastica variant. 
Improvement of estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide cholestasis by intravenous administration of dimethylethanolamine in the rat. The intravenous administration of dimethylethanolamine in the rat promotes a selective enrichment of liver membranes with polyunsaturated phosphatidylcholines. The effect of dimethylethanolamine pretreatment on cholestasis induced by estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide, a potent cholestatic agent, was assessed in this study. Dimethylethanolamine, dissolved in sodium-taurocholate was infused intravenously (0.3 mg/kg/min) for 15 hr. One group of control rats (estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide controls) received the bile salt only. An estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide bolus was then injected intravenously (10.4 mg/kg) into dimethylethanolamine-pretreated and estradiol 17 beta-D-control rats, and its effect on bile flow and biliary lipid secretion was compared for 3 hr. The estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide inhibitory effect on bile flow and biliary lipid secretion was significantly antagonized by dimethylethanolamine pretreatment. The maximum inhibition of bile flow was found 30 min after estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide administration, when it decreased from 3.5 +/- 0.4 microliters/min/100 gm (basal) to 0.9 +/- 0.3 microliters/min/100 gm in estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide controls, whereas in dimethylethanolamine-pretreated rats this decreased only from 3.2 +/- 0.4 (basal) to 2.3 +/- 0.4 microliters/min/100 gm. Bile flow and the biliary secretion of cholesterol, phosphatidylcholine and bile salts were significantly higher in the dimethylethanolamine-pretreated rats than in estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide controls (p less than 0.02) during the cholestatic phase. The inhibitory effect of estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide on bile flow was associated with a marked decrease of membrane fluidity (p less than 0.001) assessed by 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene fluorescence anisotropy and with a cholesterol enrichment of microsomes, sinusoidal and canalicular liver plasma membranes and inhibition of sinusoidal Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity (p less than 0.05). These membrane alterations persisted 180 min after estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide administration despite complete normalization of bile flow. Dimethylethanolamine pretreatment significantly counteracted the reduction of membrane fluidity (p less than 0.001), the cholesterol enrichment and the inhibition of Na+,K(+)-ATPase (p less than 0.05) promoted by estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide administration in all membrane subfractions 30 and 180 min after administration. In addition, dimethylethanolamine-pretreated rats had more polyunsaturated fatty acids in membrane phosphatidylcholine with respect to the control groups. Dilatation of canaliculi and loss of microvilli were evident in estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide controls 180 min after estradiol 17 beta-D-glucuronide administration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Failure to awaken after general anaesthesia secondary to paradoxical venous embolus. A patient is presented who failed to regain consciousness after an apparently uneventful nine-hour revision of a total hip replacement. There were no clinically important haemodynamic changes during the operation, and oxygen saturation, capnography and acid base balance were normal throughout. Postop CT of the head showed a large left MCA infarct with midline shift. At autopsy, the patient was found to have a previously unsuspected patent foramen ovale, and a venous embolus in the left internal carotid artery, which probably had originated from the periprostatic venous plexus with a large infarct in the distribution of the left anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The authors conclude that massive paradoxical venous emboli can occur during surgery with minimal haemodynamic changes. 
Radiographically occult endobronchial obstruction in bronchogenic carcinoma. PURPOSE: While central endobronchial tumors may become radiographically detectable when they cause significant endobronchial obstruction, the incidence of radiographically undetectable obstruction is not known. This study prospectively examined the incidence of radiographically undetectable completely obstructing lesions encountered during routine diagnostic bronchoscopy. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients referred for bronchoscopy at the San Diego Veterans Administration Medical Center because of suspected bronchogenic carcinoma formed the population base. Chest radiographs were interpreted routinely 24 hours prior to bronchoscopy. Patients found to have complete endobronchial obstruction during bronchoscopy were included in the analysis. RESULTS: Eighty-one completely obstructing lesions were found in 77 patients. No radiographic signs of obstruction were found in 36 (44%) completely obstructing endobronchial lesions. There was no difference in the rate of radiographically occult tumors based on cell type. Obstruction of segmental bronchi was more likely to be undetectable than obstruction of more proximal airways. Chest radiographs were normal in 13 (16%). All 13 had risk factors for and symptoms suggestive of bronchogenic carcinoma. CONCLUSION: Complete endobronchial obstruction due to bronchogenic carcinoma can occur frequently in patients at risk for lung cancer. The significant incidence of radiographically undetectable complete obstruction has implications for the diagnosis, staging, and assessment of treatment of lung cancer. 
Curative potential of primary whole-abdomen irradiation in ovarian carcinoma. Ovarian carcinoma remains a leading cause of cancer mortality in American women. The identification of active chemotherapy drugs and regimens has resulted in much less frequent use of radiation therapy at a time when technical and conceptual advances have been made. Unfortunately, the shift from radiotherapy to chemotherapy has not produced a discernible improvement in patient survival. Retrospective and prospective data suggest that whole-abdomen irradiation offers curative potential in patients with nonbulky residual disease after surgical cytoreduction. Its use should therefore be reconsidered as a primary adjuvant therapy in properly selected patients. 
Differences in release of tumor necrosis factor from THP-1 cells stimulated by filtrates of antibiotic-killed Escherichia coli. Bacterial products, such as endotoxin, activate mononuclear cells to produce tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and other monokines capable of producing host cell injury. THP-1 cell TNF release in response to bacterial products generated during antibiotic killing of Escherichia coli (ATCC 12014) was evaluated. THP-1 is a mature monocytic leukemia cell line that produces TNF in a dose-dependent fashion in response to purified endotoxin. E. coli were incubated in the presence of amikacin, ciprofloxacin, ceftazidime, cefotaxime, aztreonam, or imipenem at concentrations that killed greater than 99.9% of the organisms. Aliquots of these antibiotic-bacterial cultures were added to THP-1 cells, and TNF concentrations were determined by specific immunoassay. Amikacin and imipenem produced rapid bacterial killing and were associated with low TNF levels. Ceftazidime, aztreonam, and cefotaxime killed E. coli at a slower rate and were associated with significant increases in mononuclear cell TNF responses. Ciprofloxacin produced intermediate TNF levels. Differences exist among bactericidal antibodies in their ability to generate products capable of stimulating mononuclear cell TNF release. 
Cyclic AMP mediates the direct antiproliferative action of mismatched double-stranded RNA. Previous experiments have demonstrated that double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) can exert an antiproliferative effect on human tumor cells, independent of interferon (IFN) induction. However, the mechanism by which dsRNAs inhibit tumor growth has not been elucidated. As a first step in determining the molecular events responsible for growth arrest, we have explored the role of signal transduction through the cAMP system in the antiproliferative effect of the mismatched dsRNA, r(I)n.r(C12,U)n (Ampligen). These studies utilized the human glioma cell line A1235, which does not produce detectable levels of IFN-alpha, -beta, or -gamma in response to mismatched dsRNA treatment. Treatment of A1235 cells with mismatched dsRNA in combination with either 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7), which inhibits cAMP-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase C, or N-(2-guanidinoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (HA1004), which preferentially inhibits the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, yielded an antagonism of the mismatched dsRNA-induced antiproliferative effect. Measurement of adenylate cyclase activation showed a dose-dependent increase in activity at antiproliferative mismatched dsRNA concentrations, but not at lower, nonantiproliferative doses. This increase in activity was rapid, seen as early as 30 sec after initiation of treatment, and it was sustained at peak levels for 1-2 hr. Analysis of the intracellular cAMP concentration gave similar kinetics of induction. Exposure of cells to the stable cAMP analogue dibutyryl cAMP yielded dose-dependent inhibition of cell growth. The cAMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine also inhibited proliferation. In contrast, neither H-7 nor HA1004 had an effect on growth inhibition induced by human natural IFN-alpha treatment. In addition, antiproliferative doses of IFN-alpha did not increase cAMP concentrations. These results indicate that the cAMP system is utilized by mismatched dsRNA as an early signal transduction mechanism for growth control. Furthermore, the antiproliferative effects induced by mismatched dsRNA and IFN can occur by different mechanisms of action. 
Parental origin of the extra chromosome in trisomy 18. The parental origin of the supernumerary chromosome 18 was investigated by RFLP analysis in 23 individuals with Edwards syndrome. All families were studied with the DNA probe pERT-25, which recognizes a locus of highly polymorphic tandemly repeated DNA sequences on chromosome 18. The extra chromosome was found to be of maternal origin in 19 patients (95%), of paternal origin in one patient (5%), and indeterminate in three patients. In one of the three indeterminate cases, a mosaic, an apparent recombination event had taken place within the pERT-25 locus. The overall high degree of informativeness of pERT-25 illustrates the power of a chromosome-specific variable-number tandem repeat probe (VNTR) in parental origin studies of aneuploidy. 
Metabolic disturbance as a cause of recurrent hematuria in children. Metabolic disturbance as a cause of recurrent hematuria in children. To evaluate metabolic disturbance as a cause of hematuria, 250 children, aged eight months to fourteen years, with recurrent hematuria were studied. In the present series, metabolic disturbance was mainly due to idiopathic hypercalciuria (IH), the most common etiology of hematuria without proteinuria in childhood. Sixty-seven (27%) of the children had IH, ten children (4%) had hyperuricosuria, and 27 (11%) had nephrolithiasis. To better characterize the IH into renal (RH) or absorptive hypercalciuria (AH) subtypes, 45 of the 67 children (ranging age from six to twelve years) were further submitted to an oral calcium load test. Eighteen patients (40%) had AH, 7 (15.5%) RH and 20 (44.4%) could not be classified as having AH or RH [indeterminant (ID) idiopathic hypercalciuria group]. Intravenous pyelography or ultrasound were normal in all children. The oral calcium load test may be useful in characterizing the subtype of IH in some children; however, a great number of the IH children were characterized as indeterminant. Also hyperuricosuria, recently described as another metabolic disturbance associated with hematuria, may be an important cause of recurrent hematuria in children. 
The nature of the naming deficit in Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease. A comparison of naming performance, on the Boston Naming Test, of 52 patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT), 16 patients with Huntington's disease (HD) and 52 normal control subjects was performed using a comprehensive classification of error types. Spontaneous and cued naming scores were significantly impaired both in the DAT and HD groups, but performance in the DAT patients was significantly worse than that of the HD patients. Normal controls made predominantly semantic-category and circumlocutory errors. The HD group differed from normal only in the proportion of visually based errors, which was greater in the patient group. By contrast, the DAT patients made a significantly greater proportion of semantic-superordinate and semantic-associative errors. The same pattern of naming errors was found when a group of DAT and HD patients matched for overall naming ability was compared. A subgroup of 22 DAT patients was followed longitudinally over 3 y. Their deterioration in overall naming performance was accompanied by a consistent change in the profile of naming errors: the proportion of semantic-associative errors increased significantly as did the proportion of visual errors. These results are considered in the light of current cognitive models of naming. They suggest that in HD, naming deficits initially involve disruption of perceptual analysis, whereas in DAT such impairments in the early stages reflect a breakdown in semantic processes. However, as DAT progresses, perceptual problems also begin to contribute to the patients' naming difficulties. Postlexical (phonemic) processes remain relatively intact throughout in both diseases. 
Prostate specific antigen values after radical retropubic prostatectomy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate: impact of adjuvant treatment (hormonal and radiation). Prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels were obtained before and after radical retropubic prostatectomy in 192 patients: 78 (41%) had pathological stage B2 cancer or less, 83 (43%) had stage C or C+ and 31 (16%) had stage D1 disease. Of those with stages B2 or less, C, C+ and D1 disease 82, 86, 65 and 90%, respectively, had postoperative PSA values of 0.2 ng./ml. or less (when first evaluated 30 or more days postoperatively). At 1 year postoperatively 94% of the stages C and C+ cancer patients treated with adjuvant radiation had PSA levels of 0.2 ng./ml. or less, which was significantly different from those not treated adjuvantly (p = 0.02). This effect of adjuvant radiation on PSA was temporary in the small number of patients with longer followup. Adjuvant orchiectomy for stage D1 lesions resulted in female PSA levels in virtually all cases. This decrease may be misleading and may reflect a direct hormonal effect rather than a decrease in tumor volume. Positive surgical margins did not significantly affect postoperative PSA levels, possibly because of the frequent use of adjuvant treatment. 
Plasma prostanoids in neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Influence of meconium aspiration. Thromboxane B2 may be a mediator of neonatal persistent pulmonary hypertension. Elevated levels of plasma thromboxane and prostacyclin have been described previously in hypoxic newborn infants with neonatal pulmonary hypertension. We measured serial plasma levels of thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (stable metabolite of prostacyclin) in 21 newborn infants with severe respiratory failure and pulmonary hypertension who required extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support. We sought to study (1) the evolution of plasma prostanoids in pulmonary hypertensive infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and (2) whether different pulmonary hypertensive diagnostic subgroups have distinctive prostanoid profiles. Our data indicated that infants with meconium aspiration had significantly lower levels of plasma thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha while receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation than did infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension but no meconium aspiration. Levels of all infants decreased progressively as extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support continued. 
Left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities identified by Doppler echocardiography in asymptomatic patients with sickle cell anemia. To determine whether left ventricular diastolic abnormalities are an early feature of sickle cell anemia, indexes of diastolic filling were obtained with pulsed Doppler echocardiography in 30 consecutive patients with this disease (mean age 29 years; range 19 to 39) who had not experienced symptoms of heart failure and had normal left ventricular systolic function. Data were compared with those in 30 normal control subjects of similar ages. Seventeen (57%) of the 30 patients with sickle cell anemia had evidence of abnormal left ventricular diastolic filling. Six of these 17 patients had a Doppler pattern consistent with "restrictive" filling, characterized by reduced early diastolic deceleration time (less than 110 ms) or an increased rate of decline of early flow velocity (EF slope greater than 7.4 m/s2), or both, as well as decreased late diastolic velocity-time integral (2.6 +/- 0.7 vs. 3.4 +/- 0.8 cm in normal subjects; p less than 0.05). Another 11 patients showed a Doppler waveform consistent with impaired relaxation, characterized by prolonged deceleration time (greater than 166 ms) or reduced EF slope (less than 3.8 m/s2), as well as increased late diastolic velocity-time integral (4.0 +/- 0.5 vs. 3.4 +/- 0.8 cm in normal subjects; p = 0.03). This Doppler echocardiographic analysis demonstrates that left ventricular diastolic filling patterns are altered in patients with sickle cell anemia and that these diastolic abnormalities may be present in the absence of symptoms of heart failure. These abnormal patterns suggest an intrinsic myocardial abnormality in patients with sickle anemia and may prove to be early markers of cardiac disease. 
Serum cholesterol and mortality among Japanese-American men. The Honolulu (Hawaii) Heart Program. Hawaiian men of Japanese ancestry followed up for 18 or more years after a baseline examination showed a quadratic distribution of death rates at different levels of serum cholesterol. Mortality from cancer progressively decreased and mortality from coronary heart disease progressively increased with rising levels of serum cholesterol. There was a positive association between baseline serum cholesterol levels and deaths from coronary heart disease at 0 to 6 years, 7 to 12 years, and 13 years and longer after examination. The inverse relationship between cancer and serum cholesterol levels was stronger in the first 6 years than in the next 6 years and, although still inverse, lost statistical significance after 13 years. Cancers of the colon and lung showed the strongest association with low baseline serum cholesterol levels, while gastric or rectal cancer failed to show this association. Organ specificity and persistence of the inverse association beyond 6 years suggest that the nutritional demands of cancers may not entirely explain the inverse association with some cancers. The quadratic distribution of deaths in this cohort remained after coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer were removed from the analysis. For the entire period of observation, the lowest mortalities were found in men with serum cholesterol levels between 4.65 and 6.18 mmol/L (between 180 and 239 mg/dL). Manipulation of serum cholesterol levels below this level would not be desirable if this were to result in increased risk of death from cancer or other disease. This study does not rule out this possibility. 
The effect of elemental diet on intestinal permeability and inflammation in Crohn's disease. This study examines whether treatment of acute Crohn's disease with an elemental diet improves intestinal integrity and inflammation as assessed by a 51Cr-labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetatic acid (EDTA) permeability test and the fecal excretion of 111In-labeled autologous leukocytes, respectively. Thirty-four patients with active Crohn's disease completed a 4-week treatment course with an elemental diet. Active disease was characterized by increased intestinal permeability [24-hour urine excretion of orally administered 51Cr-EDTA, 6.4% +/- 0.6% (mean +/- SE); normal, less than 3.0%] and by high fecal excretion of 111In-labeled leukocytes (14.2% +/- 1.1%; normal, less than 1.0%). Twenty-seven (80%) went into clinical remission, usually within a week of starting treatment. After 4 weeks of treatment, there was a significant decrease in both the urine excretion of 51Cr-EDTA (to 3.4% +/- 0.5%; P less than 0.01) and the fecal excretion of 111In (to 5.7% +/- 1.0%; P less than 0.001), indicating that such treatment is not just symptomatic. A framework for the mechanism by which elemental diet works, centering around the importance of the integrity of the intestinal barrier function, is proposed, and also appears to provide a logical explanation for some relapses of the disease. 
The acetylcholine-induced flare response in evaluation of small fiber dysfunction. We iontophoresed acetylcholine on the dorsum of the foot and simultaneously measured flare and sweat responses using laser Doppler and sudorometric techniques, respectively. We compared these responses with those induced by histamine. Both acetylcholine and histamine produced dose-dependent flare, but only acetylcholine produced sweat responses. Responses to acetylcholine and histamine were blocked by hexamethonium chloride and pyrilamine maleate, respectively (p less than 0.01). We compared flare and sweat responses in 26 control subjects, 21 asymptomatic diabetic patients and 41 patients (17 diabetic, 24 nondiabetic) with pain symptoms suggestive of small fiber neuropathy and normal sensation (n = 15) or mild to moderate (n = 19) or severe (n = 7) sensory loss. No patient had trophic foot lesions. Basal skin blood flow and maximal flare responses were not significantly different among the various subgroups (Control subjects, 49 +/- 7.4; asymptomatic diabetic patients, 29 +/- 4; patients with small fiber neuropathy and normal sensation, 34 +/- 6; with neuropathy and mild to moderate sensory loss, 29 +/- 4.8; and with neuropathy and severe sensory loss, 35 +/- 5 ml/100 gm, for flare response, respectively). Flare responses lower than the lowest found in control subjects occurred in 5 of 21 asymptomatic diabetic patients, 4 of 15 patients with small fiber neuropathy and normal sensation, 5 of 19 with neuropathy and mild to moderate sensory loss, and 1 of 7 with neuropathy and severe sensory loss. 
The sleep apnoea syndrome in obesity: risk of sudden death. A total of 34 severely obese men with a history of heavy snoring and excessive daytime sleepiness indicative of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) were studied prospectively. Their mean age was 46 years, and mean body mass index was 41.6 kg m-2. During a 4-year follow-up, 15% (5/34) of these subjects died (three cases of acute myocardial infarction and two cases of pulmonary oedema), all of them suddenly and unexpectedly, outside hospital. On autopsy the degree of atherosclerosis was found to be moderate in all cases. In 68% (15/22) of the men a pathological apnoea index (mean value 46 +/- 20) confirmed the OSAS diagnosis. Exercise tests and neurological examinations did not reveal any other causes of daytime sleepiness. Mean blood pressure at rest and during exercise was normal, and mean serum lipid and blood glucose levels were normal. Spirometry revealed intrapulmonary restrictive changes that could not be attributed to the heavy thoracic wall. Compliance was reduced to about 50% of reference values, and the mean pCO2 level (5.8 kPa) was close to the upper reference limit. Blood tests suggested that high alcohol consumption may be an important factor contributing to OSAS. These results demonstrate that morbidly obese men with a history of OSAS have a high risk of sudden cardiovascular death, despite the absence of other conventional risk factors. 
Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis: an immunohistochemical study. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is a rare inflammatory disorder of the anterior pituitary gland. In some cases, there is evidence of concurrent autoimmune disease. We present the case of a 39-year-old woman who developed visual disturbance during the early postpartum period. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an intrasellar mass with suprasellar extension. Study of the tumor tissue showed diffuse infiltration of the entire pituitary gland by lymphocytes and plasma cells. Immunohistochemical examination revealed that the majority of the infiltrating lymphocytes were T cells that might have modulated the immunoreaction to the anterior pituitary gland. We suggest that the disorder is related to cell-mediated immunity as well as humoral immunity. 
Alcoholic cirrhosis and osteoporosis in men: a light and scanning electron microscopy study. Subjects with chronic alcoholism are associated with a higher prevalence of bone fractures, compared with age-matched controls. However, the pathogenesis of alcoholic osteopathy remains poorly understood. In this study, the bone cells activities and the bone matrix were studied using different techniques such as bone morphometry, scanning electron microscopy and computer reconstruction. Male patients (N = 20), aged 59.1 +/- 10.1 years, presenting a chronic decompensated alcoholic cirrhosis, were admitted into this study. A histomorphometric analysis of a transiliac bone biopsy was done after a double tetracycline labeling of the bone. A scanning electron microscopy (SEM) study was performed on eight out of the 20 patients on an additional biopsy. The bone mass was significantly decreased in cirrhotic patients. A marked defect in the osteoblastic function was observed with reduced osteoid parameters, lower mean wall thickness, and slower bone formation rate leading to a thinning of bone trabeculae. Conversely, trabecular resorption surfaces were markedly increased. SEM examination of bone biopsies was also consistent with delayed and impaired osteoblastic activity leading to extended and scalloped resorption surfaces covered by unusually thin layers of calcified collagen fibers. The reduced osteoblastic activity associated with normal osteoclastic function appears to play a major role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic osteoporosis leading to decreased bone mass with thinner trabeculae. 
Quantification of ST-segment changes during coronary angioplasty in patients with left bundle branch block. Electrocardiographic manifestations of ischemia are difficult to interpret in the presence of left bundle branch block (LBBB). Recently developed techniques allow continuous computerized digital analysis of ST segments that can be zeroed to the patient's own baseline electrocardiogram even if that baseline is abnormal conduction. With use of this technology, ST-segment changes during balloon coronary occlusion were compared in 10 patients with LBBB versus an age-, sex-, and coronary anatomy-matched population of 20 control subjects with normal baseline conduction. ST-segment deviation of greater than or equal to 1 mm from baseline was present in 80% of patients with LBBB and in 75% of control patients (difference not significant). There was no significant difference between patients with LBBB versus control patients in maximal ST-segment deviation (2.6 +/- 1.7 vs 2.0 +/- 1.0 mm) or in ST-segment deviation measured after 60 seconds of occlusion (2.4 +/- 1.3 vs 1.8 +/- 1.1 mm). ST-segment deviation reached 1 mm more quickly in patients with LBBB (33 +/- 11 seconds) than in control subjects (60 +/- 36 seconds) (p = 0.003). It is concluded that ST-segment analysis is feasible in patients with LBBB using digital self-referenced ST analysis and may provide important clinical information regarding the presence of myocardial ischemia. 
The role of echocardiography in the evaluation of mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction. With the introduction of the coronary care unit and more effective therapy for primary life-threatening arrhythmias, cardiogenic shock and the mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction are now responsible for the majority of in-hospital deaths. These mechanical complications, which include myocardial rupture of the left ventricular free wall, rupture of the ventricular septum, and rupture of the papillary muscle, are estimated to account for 25,000 fatalities yearly in the United States. Although the mechanism of myocardial rupture has not been clearly defined, there is increasing evidence that infarct expansion, which can be readily detected by two-dimensional echocardiography, may be an important pathophysiologic factor. The ready availability of echocardiography in the coronary care unit has made a major impact on the immediate diagnosis of mechanical complications in the hemodynamically compromised patient with acute myocardial infarction. In particular, two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiographic techniques have been extremely useful in the identification and localization of ventricular septal rupture. In addition, papillary muscle rupture can be readily diagnosed by Doppler approaches and is easily distinguished from ventricular septal rupture. In view of increasing evidence that early surgical intervention is indicated in these patients, these echocardiographic approaches offer the surgeon prompt diagnostic and anatomic information. Unfortunately, rupture of the free wall of the left ventricle often results in sudden death within minutes before echocardiographic evaluation can be attempted. Nevertheless, rapid echocardiographic diagnosis provides the patient with the possibility of potential life-saving resuscitative interventions before immediate surgery. Thus, over the past decade, echocardiography has become a vital tool in the diagnosis and evaluation of patients with mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction. The development of Doppler techniques, color flow Doppler, and esophageal approaches should further enhance our diagnostic abilities and allow careful monitoring of patients before, during, and after surgical repair. It is hoped that with the improvements in echocardiographic evaluation of mechanical rupture and more rapid surgical intervention, future studies will demonstrate better surgical results with good long-term survival in patients with myocardial rupture. 
Treatment of Parkinson's disease with proglumide, a CCK antagonist. Proglumide, a cholecystokinin antagonist, did not improve Parkinson's disease in a preliminary drug treatment trial. 
Leukoaraiosis correlates with cerebral hypoperfusion in vascular dementia. Leukoaraiosis quantified by computerized densitometric measurements of reduced Hounsfield numbers was correlated with local cerebral blood flow on the same computed tomographic images of 35 patients with multi-infarct dementia and 16 age-matched elderly normal volunteers. The ratio for area of frontal leukoaraiosis to total area of parenchyma among the patients was significantly greater than that among the normal volunteers (5.8 +/- 2.3% compared with 3.1 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.001). Severity of leukoaraiosis around the frontal horns of the lateral ventricles correlated significantly with severity of leukoaraiosis of the centrum semiovale adjacent to the bodies of the lateral ventricles. Cerebral blood flow values for all representative cerebral regions except the parietal white matter were reduced among the patients compared with the normal volunteers. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that reduced cerebral perfusion in the putamen and thalamus correlated significantly with the severity of leukoaraiosis. Cerebral hypoperfusion in territories supplied by deep penetrating arteries may contribute to the pathogenesis of leukoaraiosis. 
Muir-Torre syndrome associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency and cutaneous vasculitis. Report of a case with exacerbation of a cutaneous neoplasm during immunosuppressive therapy. We describe a patient with both Muir-Torre syndrome and alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. A keratoacanthoma developed after immunosuppressive therapy for necrotizing vasculitis. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of Muir-Torre syndrome associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. 
Perioperative morbidity and mortality of gynecologic brachytherapy. The incidence and nature of perioperative complications associated with gynecologic brachytherapy applications were determined in 462 implants performed on 327 patients with cervical, endometrial, or vaginal cancer from 1986 to 1988. Twenty-one patients (6.4%) had life-threatening complications, including cardiac (16 patients), thromboembolic (4 patients), and pulmonary (1 patient) events. Three complications (0.9%) were fatal within the first 30 days, and two patients died of delayed sequelae of perioperative complications; thus, there was an overall 1.5% mortality rate. Patients experiencing life-threatening complications tended to be older (P = 0.0002), and to have a history of cardiac disease (P = 0.0002) and an increased American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) score (P = 0.003). Logistic analysis demonstrated that a history of cardiac disease and increased age were independent predictors of life-threatening complications (P = 0.01). Careful patient selection and intensive perioperative care of the high-risk patient may prove to substantially diminish these complications. 
Demonstration of viraemia patterns in haemophiliacs treated with hepatitis-C-virus-contaminated factor VIII concentrates. Sequential serum samples from previously untreated haemophiliacs in whom non-A, non-B hepatitis (NANBH) developed after they received factor VIII concentrate contaminated with hepatitis C virus (HCV) were tested by a commercial assay for the presence of antibodies to the C100 protein of HCV (anti-C100) and by "nested" PCR for the presence of HCV RNA sequences. Three temporal patterns of viraemia were observed: transient viraemia in acute resolving NANBH; viraemia lasting for several years in chronic NANBH; and intermittent viraemia in chronic NANBH, with an initial transient phase followed by recurrence after many months. In three of five cases the initial detection of serum HCV RNA was made before the onset of liver function test abnormality, many weeks or months before anti-C100 seroconversion. Diagnosis of acute HCV infection may therefore be possible much earlier by PCR than by existing serological techniques, but the timing of samples may be critical. 
Twenty-four-hour activity of felodipine extended release in chronic stable angina pectoris. To investigate the antiischemic efficacy and duration of action of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist felodipine, 15 patients with stable exertional angina were enrolled in a double-blind, crossover study comparing 2 doses (5 and 10 mg) of felodipine extended release (ER) and placebo given once daily for 1 week. Bicycle exercise tests were repeated at the end of each treatment period 4 and 24 hours after dosing. Four hours after dosing with both felodipine doses, only 5 patients discontinued the exercise test because of greater than 2 mm of ST-segment depression, whereas 10 continued until exhaustion (p less than 0.01 vs placebo). Compared with placebo, total exercise time was increased by 19% (p less than 0.001), with no difference between doses. After 24 hours, exercise duration was prolonged up to physical exhaustion in 6 patients taking felodipine 10 mg (p less than 0.05 vs both placebo and felodipine 5 mg); moreover, 11 patients taking 10 mg and 5 taking 5 mg increased time to 1 mm of ST depression greater than or equal to 15% compared with exercise time during the placebo test. Mean time to 1 mm of ST depression at 24 hours was increased by 8% with 5 mg and by 18% with 10 mg (p less than 0.001 vs placebo; p less than 0.01 between doses). Total exercise time at 24 hours was increased with both doses (p less than 0.001), with greater efficacy with the 10-mg dose (p less than 0.05 vs 5 mg). 
Administration of thyroxine in treated Graves' disease. Effects on the level of antibodies to thyroid-stimulating hormone receptors and on the risk of recurrence of hyperthyroidism BACKGROUND. Antibodies to thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) receptors that stimulate the thyroid gland cause hyperthyroidism in patients with Graves' disease, and their production during antithyroid drug treatment is an important determinant of the course of the disease. One factor that might contribute to the persistent production of antibodies to TSH receptors is stimulation of the release of thyroid antigens by TSH during antithyroid drug therapy. We therefore studied the effect of the suppression of TSH secretion by thyroxine on the levels of antibodies to TSH receptors after thyroid hormone secretion had been normalized by methimazole. METHODS AND RESULTS. The levels of antibodies to TSH receptors were measured during treatment with methimazole, either alone or in combination with thyroxine, in 109 patients with hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease. The patients first received 30 mg of methimazole daily for six months. All were euthyroid after six months, and their mean (+/- SD) level of antibodies to TSH receptors decreased from 64 +/- 9 percent to 25 +/- 15 percent (P less than 0.01; normal, 2.9 +/- 1.4 percent). Sixty patients then received 100 micrograms of thyroxine and 10 mg of methimazole and 49 received placebo and 10 mg of methimazole daily for one year. In the thyroxine-treated group, the mean serum thyroxine concentration increased from 108 +/- 16 nmol per liter to 145 +/- 11 nmol per liter (P less than 0.01), and the level of antibodies to TSH receptors decreased from 28 +/- 10 percent to 10 +/- 3 percent after one month of combination therapy. In the patients who received placebo and methimazole, the mean serum thyroxine concentration decreased and the level of antibodies to TSH receptors did not change. Methimazole, but not thyroxine or placebo, was discontinued in each group 1 1/2 years after the beginning of treatment. The level of antibodies to TSH receptors further decreased (from 6.6 +/- 3.2 percent at the time methimazole was discontinued to 2.1 +/- 1.2 percent one year later) in the patients who continued to receive thyroxine, but it increased (from 9.1 +/- 4.8 percent to 17.3 +/- 5.8 percent during the same period) in the patients who received placebo. One patient in the thyroxine-treated group (1.7 percent) and 17 patients in the placebo group (34.7 percent) had recurrences of hyperthyroidism within three years after the discontinuation of methimazole. CONCLUSIONS. The administration of thyroxine during antithyroid drug treatment decreases both the production of antibodies to TSH receptors and the frequency of recurrence of hyperthyroidism. 
Vessel associated adhesion molecules in normal skin and acute graft-versus-host disease. Immunohistological staining of skin from normal donors and bone marrow transplant recipients was undertaken using antibodies to two vessel associated adhesion molecules, endothelial leucocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1). In normal skin ELAM-1 staining was restricted to a variable but generally small number of endothelial cells which were significantly increased in graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), but only when the fully developed histological picture of epidermal basal damage and leucocytic infiltration was present. All other biopsy specimens from marrow recipients taken before or after transplantation were similar to those of normal controls even in the presence of a clinical rash consistent with early GvHD. Although VCAM-1 positivity was seen on a few endothelial cells in normal skin, staining was mainly observed on dermal dendritic cells surrounding blood vessels and adnexal structures. In specimens with histological evidence of GvHD, positive perivascular dendritic cells were increased and were accompanied by the appearance of large numbers of similar cells dispersed throughout the upper dermis. Biopsy specimens from marrow recipients before and after transplantation resembled those from normal donors except for the presence of a rash after transplantation when some specimens, which lacked the leucocytic infiltrate diagnostic of GvHD, showed an increase in VCAM-1 positive cells, particularly in the upper dermis. The identification of these cells may therefore be useful in diagnosing early GvHD. 
Intensive chemotherapy induction followed by interferon-alpha maintenance in patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia. In a pilot study, 32 patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with intensive chemotherapy induction followed by interferon-alpha (IFN-A) maintenance. Intensive chemotherapy consisted of three cycles of daunorubicin 120 mg/m2 on day 1, cytarabine 80 mg/m2 daily for 10 days, vincristine 2 mg on day 1, and prednisone 100 mg daily for 5 days (DOAP). Maintenance therapy with IFN-A at a doses of 3 x 10(6) to 5 x 10(6) units/m2 daily was adjusted according to counts and toxicity. The outcome of patients was compared with a matched historic population of 64 patients treated with IFN-A alone. Overall, 60% of patients had a cytogenetic response (partial or complete) with induction chemotherapy, but only eight (25%) had a sustained cytogenetic response with IFN-A maintenance. After a median follow-up of 67 months, the 6-year survival rate of the 32 patients was 58%, compared with 36% for the matched historic group (P = 0.084). The incidence of lymphoid blastic transformation in the two groups was 25% and 48%, respectively (P = 0.10) and durable cytogenetic responses, 25% and 19%, respectively (P = 0.48). In summary, the addition of intensive chemotherapy induction to IFN-A maintenance does not improve the survival rate, incidence of lymphoid blastic transformation, or incidence of durable cytogenetic response compared with the results achieved with IFN-A therapy alone. 
Determinants of perinatal outcome in pregnancy-induced hypertension with absence of umbilical artery end-diastolic frequencies. Forty-three pregnancies that were complicated by pregnancy-induced hypertension and either absence of umbilical artery end-diastolic frequencies (n = 32) or reversal of umbilical artery end-diastolic frequencies (n = 11) were reviewed. The incidence of perinatal mortality and morbidity was similar for the two Doppler patterns. Perinatal survival was highly dependent on the gestational age when hypertension first appeared. Presentation at greater than or equal to 30 weeks' gestation was associated with a perinatal survival rate of 86%. Presentation at less than 30 weeks' gestation was associated with a perinatal survival rate of 38% (p less than 0.005). Pregnancy-induced hypertension that presented before 30 weeks was more often associated with a 5-minute Apgar score less than 7 (p less than 0.005) and a nonreactive nonstress test (p less than 0.05) compared with pregnancy-induced hypertension that presented at or beyond 30 weeks. For pregnancies that presented before 30 weeks, the only difference between perinatal survivors (n = 11) and perinatal deaths (n = 18) was a higher incidence of birth weight at or below the 10th percentile among deaths (p = 0.02). 
Sudden death and paroxysmal autonomic dysfunction in stiff-man syndrome. Two women with typical stiff-man syndrome (SMS) developed increasingly frequent attacks of muscle spasms with severe paroxysmal autonomic dysfunctions such as transient hyperpyrexia, diaphoresis, tachypnea, tachycardia, pupillary dilation, and arterial hypertension. Autoantibodies to GABA-ergic neurons were identified in the serum of both patients and in the cerebrospinal fluid of one. Both died suddenly and unexpectedly. General autopsy did not reveal the cause of death. Neuropathological studies revealed perivascular gliosis in the spinal cord and brain stem of one patient and lymphocytic perivascular infiltration in the spinal cord, brain stem, and basal ganglia of the other. The occurrence of a chronic inflammatory reaction in one of the two patients supports the idea that an autoimmune disease against GABA-ergic neurons may be involved in SMS. A review of the literature indicates that functional impairment in SMS is severe and prognosis is unpredictable because of the potential for sudden and unexpected death. Both muscular abnormalities and autonomic dysfunctions may result from autoimmunity directed against GABA-ergic neurons. 
A new point mutation in the 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine-binding domain of the c-erbA beta thyroid hormone receptor is tightly linked to generalized thyroid hormone resistance. Two different mutations in the c-erbA beta thyroid hormone receptor have recently been reported as genetic abnormalities responsible for the syndrome of generalized thyroid hormone resistance (GTHR). We have now found in a third kindred, D, in which GTHR is inherited as a dominant disease, a new point mutation in the T3-binding domain of c-erbA beta. A guanine to cytosine base substitution at nucleotide position 1305, which altered codon-335 from glutamine (CAG) to histidine (CAC), was found in one allele of 10 affected members and was not found in 6 unaffected members. This C-1305 sequence was not present in 106 random alleles, indicating that it was a mutation in c-erbA beta, and it was tightly linked to GTHR in kindred D, with a maximum logarithm of the odds score of 4.19 at a recombination fraction of 0. The tight linkage result confirms that GTHR maps to the c-erbA beta locus in multiple kindreds. In view of the tight linkage between the C-1305 mutation and GTHR, and that this mutation is a nonconservative alteration in a crucial region of the T3-binding domain, it is probably the genetic defect in kindred D responsible for GTHR. The kindred D receptor appears to result in a different phenotype of tissue resistance compared to the previously reported kindred. A receptor with a mutation in the carboxy-terminus of c-erbA beta. 
Relationship between the timing of aneurysm surgery and the development of delayed cerebral ischemia. A consecutive series of 145 patients with acute aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were operated on within 7 days of SAH and were prospectively evaluated over a 4-year period to determine if the timing of aneurysm surgery influenced the development of delayed cerebral ischemia. All patients were managed with a standardized policy of urgent surgical clipping and treatment with aggressive prophylactic postoperative volume expansion. Patients with delayed ischemic symptoms were additionally treated with induced hypertension. Forty-nine patients underwent surgery on Day 0 or 1 (Group 1) post-SAH, 60 patients on Day 2 or 3 (Group 2), and 36 patients on Days 4 through 7 (Group 3). Postoperative delayed cerebral ischemia developed in 16% of (Group 1) patients, in 22% of Group 2 patients, and in 28% of Group 3 patients. Cerebral infarction resulting from delayed cerebral ischemia developed in only 4% of Group 1 patients, 10% of Group 2 patients, and 11% of Group 3 patients. A bad clinical outcome as a result of delayed cerebral ischemia occurred in one Group 1 patient (2%), two Group 2 patients (3%), and one Group 3 patient (3%). Preoperative grade was not significantly correlated with the incidence or severity of delayed cerebral ischemia at any time interval except that patients in modified Hunt and Hess Grade I or II who underwent surgery on Day 0 or 1 after SAH had no strokes or bad outcomes from delayed cerebral ischemia. This study demonstrates that there is no rationale for delaying aneurysm surgery based on the time interval between SAH and patient evaluation. 
Special diagnostic and therapeutic considerations in elderly patients with upper gastrointestinal disease. Special diagnostic and therapeutic considerations apply to older patients with upper gastrointestinal disease. Age-related anatomical and physiologic changes occur in the major organ systems, affecting functions as diverse as swallowing and hepatic and renal clearance of therapeutic drugs. Because of these factors, and because older patients are more likely to be receiving multiple drugs for concomitant illness, they are more prone to drug-drug interactions and to medication-induced injury of the esophagus and stomach. In addition, several gastrointestinal disorders, notably gastroesophageal reflux and peptic ulcer disease, are commonly seen in the elderly. This report reviews those age-related system changes that affect the gastrointestinal tract, and also reviews the esophageal and gastric disorders that are common and/or particularly problematic in the elderly. Diagnostic techniques to evaluate gastrointestinal disease in older patients and approaches to therapy for this population are described as well. 
Bedside diagnosis of preserved versus impaired left ventricular systolic function in heart failure. The importance of recognizing symptomatic heart failure with preserved left ventricular (LV) systolic function has only recently been appreciated. To determine its frequency and identify clinical features that make the bedside diagnosis likely, 82 patients admitted for decompensated heart failure were classified into 2 groups based on their LV systolic performance, as defined by fractional shortening (FS): group I (n = 59), with impaired systolic function (fractional shortening less than 24%), and group II (n = 23) with preserved systolic function (fractional shortening greater than or equal to 24%). Mean fractional shortening was 15 +/- 5% and 39 +/- 1% for groups I and II, respectively. Female gender (p less than 0.05), obesity (p less than 0.01) and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 105 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) predominated in group II. Jugular venous distention was identified more frequently in group I (p less than 0.05). No statistically significant difference between the 2 groups was noted among various demographic variables (age, duration of symptoms, history of hypertension, ischemic heart disease and heavy alcohol drinking) or physical findings (S3 gallop, edema, cardiomegaly, pulmonary congestion and pulmonary edema). Echocardiographic mean left ventricular dimension measured 6.6 +/- 1 versus 5.0 +/- 1 cm (p less than 0.01) and mean posterior wall thickness 1.1 +/- 0.3 versus 1.4 +/- 0.4 cm (p less than 0.01) in group I and II, respectively. The combination of diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 105 mm Hg and an absence of jugular venous distention had a high specificity and positive predictive value (100%) for identifying group II patients. 
Tolerance and safety of pharmacologic coronary vasodilation with adenosine in association with thallium-201 scintigraphy in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Adenosine thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy is a promising test for coronary artery disease detection, but its safety has not been reported in large patient cohorts. Accordingly, the tolerance and safety profile of adenosine infusion were analyzed in 607 patients (351 men, 256 women, mean age 63 +/- 11 years) undergoing this test either because of suspected coronary artery disease (Group I, n = 482) or for risk stratification early (5.2 +/- 2.8 days) after myocardial infarction (Group II, n = 125). Adenosine increased the heart rate from 74.5 +/- 14.0 to 91.8 +/- 15.9 beats/min (p less than 0.001) and decreased systolic blood pressure from 137.8 +/- 26.8 to 120.7 +/- 26.1 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Side effects were frequent and similar in both groups. Flushing occurred in 35%, chest pain in 34%, headache in 21% and dyspnea in 19% of patients. Only 35.6% of Group I patients with chest pain during adenosine infusion had concomitant transient perfusion abnormalities, compared with 60.7% of Group II patients (p less than 0.05). First- and second-degree AV block occurred in 9.6% and 3.6% of patients, respectively, and ischemic ST changes in 12.5% of cases. Concomitance of chest pain and ischemic ST depression was uncommon (6%) but, when present, predicted perfusion abnormalities in 73% of patients. Most side effects ceased rapidly after stopping the adenosine infusion. The side effects were severe in only 1.6% of patients and in only six patients (1%) was it necessary to discontinue the infusion. No serious adverse reactions such as acute myocardial infarction or death occurred. 
Pituitary microcirculation: physiological aspects and clinical implications. A laser-Doppler flow study during transsphenoidal adenomectomy. The anterior and posterior pituitary lobes (AL and PL, respectively) are assumed to differ in the type of vascular supply and structure of their microvascular networks. Animal experiments have shown that the pituitary microvascular flow differs between the two lobes, being extremely high in the PL and low in the AL. For technical reasons, it has hitherto not been possible to study pituitary microflow in humans. Laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) is now a well-established method for real-time monitoring of microcirculation, applicable also in humans. In a prospective clinical study, the microflow in the AL and PL was measured during transsphenoidal microsurgery in 52 patients with adenomas of different size, growth characteristics, and endocrinological activity. The mean microflow in the PL (177.7 +/- 12.6 [flux]) was found to be about six times higher than that in the AL (27.4 +/- 2.7 [flux]). No difference in the laser-Doppler fractional volume of the lobes could be detected (0.73 +/- 0.06 [] vs. 0.77 +/- 0.07 [], where [] designates the ratio of the alternating current output to the direct current output signals). Microflow within the pituitary lobes was influenced neither by the histological type nor the size of the adenoma. Additionally, LDF signal-averaging triggered by the electrocardiogram allowed detection of different characteristic pulsatile microvascular flow patterns in the AL and PL. Our findings provide strong physiological support for the idea that the angioarchitecture of the pituitary lobes differs. With this method, the AL and PL can be identified objectively during surgery. LDF might provide useful information concerning intraoperative surgical approach. 
The dorsal rat flap: a discussion of the model and the salutary effect of cimetidine on flap survival. Failure of skin flaps remains a significant clinical problem. The dorsal rat flap, a reliable experimental model, was used to test the efficacy of cimetidine in treating a failing flap. Flaps were elevated in 45 rats divided into three equal groups. Group 1 was a saline control group, Group 2 received cimetidine 250 mg/kg three times a day for 7 days postoperatively, and Group 3 received cimetidine for 1 day before surgery, and then as in Group 2. Necrosis was assessed on the seventh postoperative day. Group 2 had 31.1 +/- 1.3 (mean % +/- SEM) necrosis, significantly better than saline control animals (p less than 0.01) and pretreated animals (p less than 0.05). These results suggest the usefulness of cimetidine in ischemic flap surgery. 
Microvascular permeability increases early in the course of acid-induced esophageal injury. To test the hypothesis that microvascular injury is involved in the pathophysiology of acid-induced esophagitis, the effect of acid perfusion on intraluminal plasma protein loss was studied in relation to histological changes. Four groups of opossums (n = 6 in each) were perfused with either normal saline control) or 10, 20, or 100 mmol/L isoosmolar hydrochloric acid at 2 mL/min for 90 minutes using a midesophageal catheter. The distal esophagus was cannulated via a gastrostomy, and the effluent was collected and measured for intraluminal loss of IV injected 125I-bovine serum albumin. Plasma protein loss in the control group was constant with a total loss of 3.40 +/- 0.69 mg/g dry wt. Perfusion of 10, 20, and 100 mmol/L hydrochloric acid increased total protein loss to 8.06 +/- 2.62, 13.94 +/- 2.72, and 27.34 +/- 4.34 mg/g dry wt, respectively. The protein loss was not associated with intraluminal blood loss, as measured by previously injected 51Cr-labeled autologous red blood cells. Histological changes, scored by a blinded observer, were significant only between control animals and those perfused with 100 mmol/L hydrochloric acid. Separate studies using the vascular tracer monastral blue B demonstrated an increase in labeling of lamina propria blood vessels that varied directly with the concentration of acid perfusate, thereby providing direct morphological evidence of microvascular injury. These studies suggest that increased microvascular permeability occurs early in the course of acid-induced esophageal injury. 
Acute familial myositis with a common autoimmune response. In 1986, we diagnosed and treated 4 patients, all members of 1 rural family, who presented simultaneously with a polymyositis-like syndrome, anticytoplasmic antibodies (on HEp-2 cells), and precipitating antibodies of anti-Jo-1 and anti-PM-Scl specificities. Serum samples from these patients reacted by immunodiffusion against serum from a rodent that had been caught in the patients' house. The precipitin line showed complete immunologic identity with anti-Jo-1. To study the specificity of this serum-serum reaction, 2 mice (Mus musculus) and 1 rat (Rattus rattus) from the neighboring areas of the patients' house were caught and killed. Sections of the liver, kidney, spleen, and skeletal muscle were processed for histopathologic examination and for direct and indirect immunofluorescence studies of the patients' sera. The rodents' sera were tested by immunodiffusion against serum samples from 25 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, 11 with rheumatoid arthritis, 6 with mixed connective tissue disease, and 11 with various other rheumatic diseases, as well as 16 healthy controls. A serum-serum precipitin reaction was noted between the rodents' sera and sera from 2 of the patients with polymyositis-like syndrome. A distinct, but weaker, reaction was found with 2 lupus patients' sera (8%), and with 1 healthy control serum (6%). The rodents' sera were antinuclear antibody positive by indirect immunofluorescence on HEp-2 cells. These results, suggest that some rodents could be carriers of an as-yet-unknown transmissible agent that, in susceptible individuals, induces clinical and serologic manifestations similar to those of polymyositis. 
Osteoradionecrosis of sphenoid and temporal bones in a patient with maxillary sinus carcinoma: a case report. A case of radionecrosis of sphenoid and temporal bones is reported. The patient received a combination of surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy for his left maxillary sinus carcinoma. After the combined therapy, necrosis accompanying inflammation developed in the maxillary and temporal regions. Excision of the necrotic tissues was done, and the left ascending ramus of the mandible was resected because of persistent tumor mass at the left infratemporal fossa. Although the excision wound of the maxilla healed by epithelialization, an area of nonvital bone remained exposed in the temporal region, where progressive osteonecrosis with infection led to breakdown of the skin. The necrotic bones of the zygomatic arch and the sphenotemporal sutural region became visible through the skin defect, and computerized tomography scan revealed bone necrosis involving the inferolateral area and the base of the skull. Excision of the necrotic bone and reconstruction with sternocleidomastoid myocutaneous flap were performed. 
Neonatal schizencephaly: comparison of brain imaging. Schizencephaly is a regional disturbance of cerebral hemisphere formation occurring at 3-5 months gestation; neonatal presentation is uncommon. Three neonates with schizencephaly were evaluated with cranial ultrasonography (US), unenhanced computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations. Common findings in US, CT, and MRI include parasylvian and midline clefts, size asymmetries of the basal ganglia and thalamus, cerebral parenchymal volume loss, ventriculomegaly, ventricular diverticula, and absence of the septum pellucidum. MRI and CT were superior to US in detecting calcification, gyral and sulcal abnormalities, and parasylvian clefts. MRI alone demonstrated homolateral absence of the sylvian vasculature, small medullary pyramids, low position of the fornix, and the thinning of the corpus callosum. Although US appears adequate as a screening test, MRI best defines the precise pathoanatomic findings of neonatal schizencephaly and allows for the prediction of neurologic outcomes in affected newborns. 
Use of photodynamic therapy in the palliation of massive advanced rectal cancer. Phase I/II study. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a relatively new form of cancer therapy utilizing a photosensitizer such as hematoporphyrin derivative. We conducted a pilot study to determine the efficacy of its use in palliating advanced rectal cancer, to determine toxicity, and to establish objective outcome criteria. Six patients with very advanced, usually recurrent rectal cancer were treated with PDT after being photosensitized with Photofrin II. A protocol was established to measure clinical and radiologic response to therapy. A new intraluminal delivery system was incorporated. Five patients had both clinical and radiologic responses to therapy. In two patients we observed such significant responses that they cannot be accounted for on a photobiologic basis alone. One patient developed a significant sunburn after discharge. There was no major toxicity of bleeding or sepsis even at maximum doses (200 J/cm2). We are confident that PDT has a role to play in rectal cancer and speculate as to future applications. 
Results of balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty as a palliative procedure in tetralogy of Fallot Balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was attempted in 67 patients with tetralogy of Fallot at a median age of 5 months (range 0.03 to 52 months) for relief of cyanosis. In three patients, the valve could not be crossed and an aortopulmonary shunt was performed. In 35 patients, follow-up angiography was performed 3 to 30 months (average 12) after valvuloplasty. In 24 of these 35 patients (group A), the stenosis had been adequately palliated by valvuloplasty; the other 11 patients (group B) had required an aortopulmonary shunt 1 month (range 0 to 3 months) after valvuloplasty. The two groups were similar (p greater than 0.1) with respect to age at valvuloplasty, pulmonary anulus diameter, ratio of pulmonary artery to descending aorta diameter before valvuloplasty and interval to follow-up angiography. In contrast to patients in group B, patients in group A had a significant immediate improvement in systemic arterial oxygen saturation (p less than 0.01) and a significant increase in pulmonary anulus diameter at follow-up angiography (p less than 0.001). The growth of the branch pulmonary arteries was similar (p greater than 0.1) in the two groups. Among 42 patients who have had surgical correction, a transannular patch for right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction was used in 27 (64%); there was no difference between groups A and B with respect to its use. Eight patients died (three after repair) and death could not be directly attributed to valvuloplasty in any. Balloon valvuloplasty promotes growth of the pulmonary valve anulus and pulmonary arteries and is a useful alternative to an aortopulmonary shunt in patients with small pulmonary arteries or associated complex intracardiac defects. 
Metastatic properties of the human prostatic cell line, PPC-1, in athymic nude mice. Limitation in the number of human prostatic cell lines has created a gap in knowledge regarding the in-vivo progression of this common cancer. The recently isolated primary prostatic carcinoma cell line, PPC-1, has been shown to be tumorigenic in athymic nude mice. These cells are now shown to form metastases to secondary sites in 10 of 12 animals in this initial study. Metastases were localized to lung and lymph nodes, and the tumor histology closely resembled that of the undifferentiated, rapidly dividing primary tumors. This is the first report describing the metastatic properties of a primary prostatic cancer cell line. PPC-1 cells are therefore likely to represent a good model system for the study of human prostate cancer progression. 
Myocardial calcifications in neonates and infants: a unique tissue reaction. The deposit of calcium salts into myocardial cells represents the process of dystrophic calcification. Once it causes alterations in cellular calcium hemostasis, it can initiate deleterious events leading to ischemic myocardial injury and cell death. Myocardial calcifications in infants are markedly different from those in adults; calcifications are significantly more frequent in cases of myocardial necrosis in the young, and can be demonstrated microscopically without removal of necrotic fibers and scar formation, which are the adult's usual stages of response to myocardial necrosis. Important functional and clinical implications in myocardial calcification, other than serving as a marker for necrosis, relate to accelerated myocardial calcification after cardiac surgery in infants. 
Prospective randomized trial comparing anal function after hand sewn ileoanal anastomosis with mucosectomy versus stapled ileoanal anastomosis without mucosectomy in restorative proctocolectomy. A prospective randomized trial was performed to compare complications and function after hand sewn ileoanal anastomosis with mucosectomy (group A) with stapled ileoanal anastomosis without mucosectomy (group B) during restorative proctocolectomy. Thirty-two age- and sex-matched consecutive patients under the care of one surgeon were randomized. The median duration of anal dilatation while making the anastomosis was 19 min (range 14-33 min) and 1 min (range 0-39 min) in groups A and B respectively (P less than 0.005). The median level of the anastomosis was at the dentate line (range 0-0.5 cm) in group A and 2 cm above the dentate line (range 0.2-4.0 cm) in group B (P less than 0.005). Seven patients in group A and 11 in group B had at least one postoperative complication (n.s.). One patient in group A and four in group B developed an anastomotic stricture requiring dilatation (n.s.). One patient in group B had the reservoir removed. Function was assessed at a median of 11 months (range 7-15 months) after ileostomy closure in 14 patients in group A, and at a median of 12 months (range 5-17 months) in 14 patients in group B. Median frequency of defaecation per 24 h was 4 in both groups (group A, range 2-7; group B, range 2-10). Night evacuation (greater than once per week) occurred in seven patients in each group. All patients in both groups could delay the desire to defaecate by more than 30 min. Eleven patients in group A and 12 in group B had normal continence. Evidence to date favours a full mucosectomy. Function is not vitiated by this technique and surgical removal of the disease is more complete. 
Effect of mild hyperthermia on the ischemic infarct volume after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. We investigated the effect of mild whole-body hyperthermia (40 degrees C) on a permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) model in Fisher rats by subjecting them to MCAo under the following conditions: (1) normothermia (n = 20); (2) hyperthermia (n = 14) before (1 hour), during, and after (1 hour) MCAo; and (3) post-MCAo hyperthermia (n = 14) for 1 hour. We measured brain and body temperatures during the experiment using micro-thermocouples and blood-brain-barrier (BBB) permeability using Evans blue staining of the brain. We measured the volume of the infarcted brain tissue 4 days after MCAo. We detected no differences in BBB permeability among three groups. The volume of infarcted tissue was significantly greater (p less than 0.05) for the two groups of hyperthermic animals than the normothermic animals. Our data suggest that mild hyperthermia, both during and after induction of ischemia, has a detrimental effect on the ischemic infarct volume in this model. 
Inner ear deafness in Wegener's granulomatosis. Autoimmune deafness represents a heterogeneous group of disorders in which there is though to be inner ear and/or middle ear damage mediated by various immunological abnormalities. We describe a patient with Wegener's granulomatosis in whom there was evidence of significant inner ear damage caused by vasculitis, which was completely reversed by cyclophosphamide and prednisolone. We propose that Wegener's granulomatosis is a cause of autoimmune deafness. 
Epidemiology of nontyphoidal Salmonella bacteremia during the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic. To assess the impact of the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic on nontyphoidal Salmonella septicemia and to identify risk factors for this infection, national laboratory-based Salmonella surveillance data and AIDS case reports were analyzed. Among 25- to 49-year-old men in states with a high incidence of AIDS, the proportion of Salmonella isolates reported from blood increased from 2.8% in 1978-1982 to 14.2% in 1983-1987, with substantial increases for serotypes enteritidis and typhimurium. Of adolescents and adults reported with AIDS from September 1987 through March 1990, 337 (0.48%) had recurrent Salmonella septicemia, with higher proportions among those who resided in the Northeast (0.86%), had a history of intravenous drug use (0.79%), or were black (0.74%) or Hispanic (0.57%). These data suggest that the risk of Salmonella septicemia in persons with AIDS is affected by geographic prevalence of Salmonella species, host characteristics, and invasiveness of infecting strains. 
Usefulness of a writing device in writer's cramp. Fifteen of 20 patients with writer's cramp treated with a writing device noted an improvement in their writing ability, some quite marked. Despite this benefit, nine patients preferred to use alternate methods. In the absence of adverse effects, we suggest that trials of writing devices be the first recourse for all patients with writer's cramp requiring treatment. 
Renal transplant arterial thrombosis: association with cyclosporine. Of 136 patients who received a renal transplant between January 1984 and August 1988, there were six cases (4.4%) of allograft arterial thrombosis (AAT) occurring a mean of 23 days after transplantation. All were maintained on cyclosporine A(CsA) in addition to prednisone and azathioprine. All transplants were performed by the same transplant surgeon. Five of the six episodes (83%) were in allografts that had multiple renal arteries (MRA), giving an incidence of AAT in that group of 36%. Only one of 122 (0.8%) allografts with a single renal artery experienced thrombosis. CsA was started a mean of 9 days after transplantation (range, 16 to 33 days). There was no correlation of AAT to CsA levels. AAT appears to be an early complication of allografts with MRA in patients maintained on CsA. 
The effect of intravenous flumazenil on interictal electroencephalographic epileptic activity: results of a placebo-controlled study. The effect on interictal electroencephalographic epileptic activity of intravenous flumazenil (Ro 15-1788), a benzodiazepine antagonist and potential antiepileptic drug, was studied in 10 patients. Comparison was made with intravenous diazepam (10 mg) and placebo using a single-blind, single-dose, cross-over design. A dose of 3 mg flumazenil was well tolerated and produced a significantly greater reduction in the number of epileptic transients during the first 40 minutes after injection than did placebo (p less than 0.05). This effect was similar to that of diazepam in magnitude and duration. When flumazenil (3 mg) was administered immediately after intravenous diazepam (10 mg), the reduction in interictal epileptic activity was not significantly different from that produced by diazepam alone. The results suggest that either flumazenil has intrinsic antiepileptic activity and in this respect acts as a partial agonist at the benzodiazepine receptor, or that it is antagonising an endogenous proconvulsant ligand in these patients. 
Efficacy and safety of intravenous and oral propafenone in pediatric cardiac dysrhythmias. Propafenone was administered to 58 patients with a mean age of 3.2 years (range 0.1 to 16). Mean intravenous dose was 1.2 mg/kg body weight (range 0.3 to 1.5 mg). The final mean oral maintenance dose was 308 mg/m2 body surface area (range 200 to 600 mg/m2, 16.8 mg/kg body weight). After intravenous application, propafenone was effective in 21 of 36 patients; atrial flutter was converted in 1 of 5 patients, and reentry supraventricular tachycardia was controlled in 15 of 25 patients. Propafenone was partially or completely effective in 3 of 4 patients with chaotic atrial tachycardia. Junctional ectopic tachycardia was suppressed in 2 infants. Thirty-seven patients had oral treatment with a mean follow-up of 2.2 years. Propafenone was effective in 33 of 37 patients (89%); atrial flutter was controlled in 2 patients, ventricular ectopy was suppressed in 1 of 2 patients. In reentry supraventricular tachycardia, propafenone was effective in 25 of 28 patients. Chaotic atrial tachycardia (n = 3) and junctional ectopic tachycardia (n = 2) were controlled after successful intravenous therapy. Systemic side effects were rare. Two patients developed a proarrhythmic effect, and 1 patient with ventricular ectopy after repair of tetralogy of Fallot died suddenly during propafenone maintenance therapy. 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the umbilicus associated with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A variety of malignancies, including hematologic malignancies, Kaposi's sarcoma, as well as adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinoma have been reported in association with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Tumors of the umbilical area are unusual and can represent lesions of urachal origin. These may require extensive resection and are associated with a poor prognosis. We describe here a case of a young woman with AIDS who developed a squamous cell carcinoma of the umbilicus which suggests more than a casual relationship between these two conditions. 
Outcome of extensive coronary artery dissection during coronary angioplasty. A total of 32 (3.6%) patients of 880 undergoing coronary angioplasty during a nine year period at one hospital had extensive dissection (defined as a dissection extending beyond the limits of the dilated angioplasty balloon) in the coronary artery in which the angioplasty procedure was performed. Two (6.25%) of the 32 patients (both of whom were undergoing angioplasty because of unstable angina that was refractory to medical treatment) died as a consequence of the coronary artery dissection. Twelve (38%) needed immediate coronary artery bypass surgery and 11 (34%) had a myocardial infarction, which in four was minor in extent. During follow up, 20 of the 32 patients were successfully managed by medical treatment; only two needed further angioplasty procedures. There were no late deaths. Extensive coronary artery dissection is a serious complication of coronary angioplasty, with a high early mortality and a high incidence of infarction and requirement for bypass surgery. None the less, patients with extensive dissection who are free from the manifestations of acute ischaemia at the end of the procedure can be managed conservatively and have a good immediate and medium term outlook. Attempts should be made to stabilise extensive dissection during coronary angioplasty so that surgical intervention can be delayed or avoided altogether if possible. 
Early gold weight eyelid implantation for facial paralysis. Facial paralysis can result in serious keratopathy because of corneal exposure and inadequate lacrimation. Thirty-seven patients underwent thirty-eight gold weight upper lid implants to rehabilitate paralysis of the eyelid from various causes. When indicated, implantation was combined with lower lid ectropion repair, medial canthoplasty or brow lift. Because of encouraging results in patients with longstanding facial paralysis, "early" implantation (within 1 month of paralysis) was offered to patients with severe lagophthalmos in whom (1) a severe neural injury was documented at the time of transtemporal surgery or (2) delayed, incomplete return of function was expected. Gold weight implantation resulted in excellent eyelid closure, protection, and cosmesis. There were no infections or extrusions. Lagophthalmos and exposure keratitis resolved or were significantly improved in all patients, and most were able to dispense with eyedrops and salves. Visual acuity improved in 95% of patients--a benefit even those without preoperative keratitis often achieved. A mild worsening of one patient's pre-existing astigmatism developed, which resolved after reimplantation with a lighter weight. The implant is easily removed from those patients who, having undergone early implantation, eventually recover adequate function. Gold weight loading has become our procedure of choice for eyelid rehabilitation. 
Low-dose aspirin therapy for chronic stable angina. A randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of low-dose aspirin in the primary prevention of myocardial infarction among patients with chronic stable angina. DESIGN: A randomized, double-blind, trial. PATIENTS: The study included 333 men with baseline chronic stable angina but with no previous history of myocardial infarction, stroke, or transient ischemic attack who were enrolled in the Physicians' Health Study, a trial of aspirin among 22,071 male physicians. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive alternate-day aspirin therapy (325 mg) or placebo and were followed for an average of 60.2 months for the occurrence of myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death. RESULTS: During follow-up, 27 patients had confirmed myocardial infarctions; 7 were among the 178 patients with chronic stable angina who received aspirin therapy and 20 were among the 155 patients who received placebo (relative risk, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.14 to 0.63; P = 0.003). While simultaneously controlling for other cardiovascular risk factors in a proportional hazards model, an overall 87% risk reduction was calculated (relative risk, 0.13; CI, 0.04 to 0.42; P less than 0.001). For the subgroup of patients with chronic stable angina but no previous coronary bypass surgery or coronary angioplasty, an almost identical reduction in the risk for myocardial infarction was found (relative risk, 0.14; CI, 0.04 to 0.56; P = 0.006). Of 13 strokes, 11 occurred in the aspirin group and 2 in the placebo group (relative risk, 5.4; CI, 1.3 to 22.1; P = 0.02). No stroke was fatal, but 4 produced some long-term impairment of function. One stroke, in the aspirin group, was hemorrhagic. CONCLUSION: Our data indicated that alternate-day aspirin therapy greatly reduced the risk for first myocardial infarction among patients with chronic stable angina, a group of patients at high risk for cardiovascular death (P less than 0.001). Although our results for stroke were based on small numbers, they suggested an apparent increase in frequency of stroke with aspirin therapy; this finding requires confirmation in randomized trials of adequate sample size. 
Hemodynamic determinants of exercise capacity in chronic heart failure. PURPOSE: To synthesize information on hemodynamic determinants of exercise capacity in patients with chronic heart failure. DATA IDENTIFICATION: Relevant studies published from the mid-1960s to the present were identified by a manual search of the English-language literature and by bibliographic review of pertinent articles. STUDY SELECTION: Both controlled and observational studies that reported measures of either exercise time or oxygen uptake and hemodynamic variables in patients with heart failure were reviewed for quality and included when relevant to the discussion. DATA EXTRACTION: Key conclusions or data, or both, were extracted from each article and described. DATA SYNTHESIS: Exercise intolerance is a hallmark of chronic congestive heart failure. Studies have emphasized central factors and indices of systolic ventricular function, but poor relations have been consistently found between these measurements and exercise capacity. Recent data suggest that diastolic function (that is, ventricular filling and compliance) is an important factor affecting the ability to increase cardiac output and determining exercise capacity, but this issue needs further study. A clearer picture of histologic and biochemical abnormalities in skeletal muscle has recently emerged; patients with heart failure show greater glycolysis, reduced oxidative phosphorylation, and reduced oxidative enzyme activity. Vasodilatory abnormalities in heart failure were first described more than 20 years ago, and such abnormalities may underlie recently reported reductions in skeletal muscle blood flow during exercise. Relative hyperventilation is commonly observed during exercise in patients with heart failure and is related to ventilation-perfusion mismatching in the lung due to a higher-than-normal fraction of physiologic dead space. Neurohumoral abnormalities include reductions in beta-receptor density and sensitivity and contribute to reduced inotropic and chronotropic responses to exercise. CONCLUSIONS: Systolic function and exercise capacity are unrelated in patients with chronic heart failure, but many hemodynamic abnormalities (including those in the heart, lung, and skeletal muscle) overlap, which leads to exercise intolerance in these patients. 
Massive ST-segment elevation without myocardial injury in a patient with fulminant hepatic failure and cerebral edema. A 49-year-old woman presented in fulminant hepatic failure. The ECG showed dramatic ST-segment elevation, suggesting diffuse myocardial injury. However, echocardiography, creatine phosphokinase enzyme determinations, and examination of the heart at autopsy (six days later) failed to demonstrate any physiologic, anatomic, or histologic evidence of abnormality. The appearance of ST-segment elevation in this setting should not prompt treatment for cardiac disease or limit the candidacy for liver transplantation of such critically ill patients. 
Oral Kaposi's sarcoma in a woman as a first indication of HIV infection. Although Kaposi's sarcoma has been well described in homosexual men at risk for infection with the human immunodeficiency virus, there have been fewer reports of KS in women, and most of these have been in women who became infected with HIV through intravenous drug use. This report describes a woman who had no history of intravenous drug use in whom intraoral KS and hairy leukoplakia were the first indication of her infection with HIV. 
Tumor cytokinetic response to total parenteral nutrition in patients with head and neck cancers. Refeeding of patients with malignant tumors may induce tumor-cell DNA synthesis. The present study was aimed at evaluating whether induction of altered cell-cycle kinetics could be induced by intravenous total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in tumor biopsies from head and neck cancers. Nine malnourished patients with squamous cell carcinoma in the head-and-neck area were investigated before and after 5-7 d of continuous TPN. Tumor biopsies were taken in both fasted and fed states for determination of 1) ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, which is rate limiting for polyamine synthesis; 2) flow-cytometric-DNA-distribution measurements; and 3) the fraction of proliferating cells expressed as immunohistochemical reactivity with the monoclonal antibody Ki-67. The histopathological differentiation, the fraction of aneuploidic cells, ODC activity, and Ki-67 reactivity were not significantly related to each other, although the number of aneuploidic cells in replicative phases correlated with the number of cells expressing the Ki-67 antigen (r = 0.86, P less than 0.01). Tumor cytokinetics showed no evidence of being changed by TPN administration. 
Molecular biology of hypertension. Hypertension results from abnormalities of the control systems that normally regulate blood pressure. These control systems include vascular, cardiogenic, renal, neurogenic, and endocrine mechanisms that interact in a complex but integrated manner to achieve blood pressure homeostasis. Multiple endogenous biologically active substances participate in the regulation of these control systems. Evidence suggests that abnormalities of these regulatory mechanisms resulting from altered genetic and environmental interactions play an important role in the pathogenesis of primary hypertension. Once hypertension develops, it tends to be self-perpetuating via amplifying mechanisms mediated by secondary structural changes in the blood vessels, heart, and kidney. These adaptative structural changes amplify and perpetuate hypertension by increasing systemic vascular resistance, enhancing cardiac output, and impairing renal sodium and water excretion. The long-term sequelae of hypertensive structural changes in these end organs are complications of atherosclerotic vascular disease, cardiac hypertrophy and failure, stroke, and renal failure. With the tools of molecular biology, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying these abnormalities has increased enormously and continues to grow at a rapid pace, as illustrated by the discussion that follows. Our review of the molecular biology of hypertension will address systematically four key areas: 1) molecular biology of the control systems, 2) molecular mechanisms of cardiovascular structural changes, 3) genetics of hypertension, and 4) application of transgenic technology in studies of hypertension. 
Hepatic focal nodular hyperplasia: specific findings at dynamic contrast-enhanced US with carbon dioxide microbubbles. Dynamic contrast material-enhanced ultrasonography (US) with intraarterial infusion of carbon dioxide microbubbles was performed for four cases of histologically proved focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) in four patients and for 167 cases of various hepatic nodules in 144 patients. No complications due to dynamic US were observed in any of the 148 patients. All FNH nodules were less than 3 cm in diameter. Consistent specific findings of FNH were not obtained with US, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, radiocolloid scanning, or angiography in the four cases of FNH. In contrast, the characteristic vascular pattern (ie, early central hypervascular supply with centrifugal filling to the periphery at the arterial phase and a uniform or lobulated dense stain at the capillary phase) was observed in all four cases of FNH with dynamic US. This vascular pattern demonstrated in FNH with dynamic US was not seen in any of the 167 hepatic nodules, including 44 small hepatocellular carcinomas less than 3 cm in diameter. Therefore, the newly developed, dynamic contrast-enhanced US technique seems to be extremely sensitive and specific for diagnosing FNH and is useful in the differentiation of FNH from other hepatic tumors, especially hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Global T wave inversion. Because global T wave inversion has not been specifically characterized, 100 electrocardiograms (ECGs) with this pattern (frontal plane T vector -100 degrees to -170 degrees with precordial T inversion) were prospectively collected from approximately 30,000 consecutively interpreted ECGs and analyzed blindly. There was a striking female predominance (82 women vs. 18 men; p less than 0.0005) despite an essentially equal number of female and male hospital admissions. There was a single statistically significant ECG correlate: a more vertical QRS axis in women (+14.1 degrees +/- 45.3 degrees vs. -5.6 degrees +/- 31.3 degrees; p = 0.034). The T waves were basically symmetric (68%), the influence of this factor usually altering the characteristically asymmetric T wave inversions of right bundle branch block (4 of 5) and left ventricular hypertrophy (21 of 36). Asymmetry was mainly associated with digoxin therapy (21 of 32 patients taking digoxin; p less than or equal to 0.0005) and a corrected QT (QTc) interval (0.433 +/- 0.095) shorter than with symmetric T wave inversions (0.507 +/- 0.074; p less than or equal to 0.0005) though not reaching the degree of shortening expected for digitalization. Twenty-eight patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction and 23 for a central nervous system disorder accounted for the majority of patients with symmetric T wave inversion. Fifteen of 18 patients who had coronary angiography had some degree of coronary artery disease: 3 had angiographically normal coronary arteries. 
Twenty-four-hour activity of felodipine extended release in chronic stable angina pectoris. To investigate the antiischemic efficacy and duration of action of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist felodipine, 15 patients with stable exertional angina were enrolled in a double-blind, crossover study comparing 2 doses (5 and 10 mg) of felodipine extended release (ER) and placebo given once daily for 1 week. Bicycle exercise tests were repeated at the end of each treatment period 4 and 24 hours after dosing. Four hours after dosing with both felodipine doses, only 5 patients discontinued the exercise test because of greater than 2 mm of ST-segment depression, whereas 10 continued until exhaustion (p less than 0.01 vs placebo). Compared with placebo, total exercise time was increased by 19% (p less than 0.001), with no difference between doses. After 24 hours, exercise duration was prolonged up to physical exhaustion in 6 patients taking felodipine 10 mg (p less than 0.05 vs both placebo and felodipine 5 mg); moreover, 11 patients taking 10 mg and 5 taking 5 mg increased time to 1 mm of ST depression greater than or equal to 15% compared with exercise time during the placebo test. Mean time to 1 mm of ST depression at 24 hours was increased by 8% with 5 mg and by 18% with 10 mg (p less than 0.001 vs placebo; p less than 0.01 between doses). Total exercise time at 24 hours was increased with both doses (p less than 0.001), with greater efficacy with the 10-mg dose (p less than 0.05 vs 5 mg). 
Comparison of patient-controlled analgesia and epidural morphine for postcesarean pain and recovery. A greater awareness of the advantages and limitations of new methods of administering postcesarean analgesia would help the obstetrician care for the recovering patient. Patient-controlled analgesia and epidural morphine are two new modalities for postoperative pain relief. The purpose of this prospective investigation was to compare their effectiveness, safety, side effects, patient satisfaction and cost. During an eight-month period, 161 women undergoing cesarean delivery were assigned to receive narcotics by either epidural morphine (76 patients) or patient-controlled analgesia (85 patients) using a combined continuous infusion and demand dosing of meperidine. The demographic characteristics of the two groups were similar. Mild or no pain was reported with similar frequencies in both groups. No reduced respiration or undesired sedation was seen in either group. The postoperative times before sitting at the bedside, ambulating, tolerating clear liquids and leaving the hospital were also comparable. No complications were encountered with patient-controlled analgesia, but pruritus and alarms from apnea monitors occurred commonly in the epidural morphine group. The costs to the patient were similar for the two groups. Patient-controlled analgesia using a combined continuous infusion and demand dosing is an acceptable alternative to epidural morphine after cesarean delivery. 
Prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting using ondansetron, a new, selective, 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. The effect of ondansetron, a 5-HT3 antagonist, in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting was investigated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 84 patients undergoing gynecologic operation and receiving the same general anesthetic. The patients received premedication with either 16 mg oral ondansetron, or a matching placebo. The same medication was given postoperatively 8 h after the first dose. During the first hour after recovery from anesthesia, the frequencies of nausea and vomiting were 52% and 40%, respectively, in patients given placebos. In the ondansetron group nausea and vomiting developed in 17% and 12%, respectively, values significantly different from those with placebos (P less than 0.005). Similar differences were observed throughout the entire 24-h period after recovery, the incidence of nausea and vomiting being 67% and 60%, respectively, in the placebo group and 29% and 26% in the ondansetron treatment group. Ondansetron appears to be a promising antiemetic for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. 
Detection of intraoperative laser injury to the facial nerve by electromyographic monitoring of facial muscles. Injury to the facial nerve is a significant risk during resection of cerebellopontine angle tumors. To minimize the risk of facial nerve injury, intraoperative electromyographic monitoring of facial musculature is frequently used. However, the reliability of such monitoring systems for detection of thermal nerve injury resulting from the use of carbon dioxide lasers has not been systematically evaluated. We determined the sensitivity of a computerized electromyographic monitor for detection of laser facial nerve injury in an anesthetized rat model. The mandibular and buccal branches of the facial nerve were isolated in 12 rats. A carbon dioxide laser was used to create controlled sites of thermal injury to both nerves over a 3-hour period. When a laser injury was created distal to previous injury sites, electromyographic discharge was noted in 72% to 82% of injuries. Laser injury proximal to previous injury sites was detected with 33% efficiency. These detection rates did not change significantly over a 3-hour period. This preliminary data suggests that electromyographic monitoring of facial musculature allows detection of facial nerve injury caused by carbon dioxide lasers. 
Bacteriology of the appendix and the ileum in health and in appendicitis. The bacteriology of the ileum and the appendix in appendicitis patients with or without perforation and compared with patients who had "incidental appendectomy" was studied. Of 42 appendicitis patients, 24 (57%) of them had anaerobic bacteria in the appendix compared with two of eight (25%) with normal appendix. Anaerobes were found in the ileal aspirates of 20 of 42 (47.6%) appendicitis patients and two of eight (25%) in normal persons. This suggests that anaerobic bacteria increasingly colonize the appendix and the ileum in cases of appendicitis. 
Possible mechanism of vascular reocclusion after initially successful thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. We studied the effects of urokinase (UK), pro-urokinase (pro-UK), and recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) on platelet aggregation and the production of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) in vitro. Both UK and pro-UK inhibited the platelet aggregation induced by adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP), collagen, or thrombin in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, although a low dose of rt-PA (5 to 10 x 10(4) U/ml) blunted platelet aggregability, a high dose (40 to 60 x 10(4) U/ml) led to platelet hyperaggregation. UK and pro-UK markedly inhibited TXA2 synthesis during ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Despite the significant reduction of TXA2 synthesis by 10 x 10(4) U/ml rt-PA, a concentration of 60 x 10(4) U/ml rt-PA had no effect on synthesis. These results indicate that UK and pro-UK each inhibit platelet function, but a high concentration of rt-PA enhances platelet aggregability. This finding may at least in part contribute to the high incidence of reocclusion after initially successful thrombolysis with rt-PA. 
Treatment of bone, joint, and vascular-access-associated gram-positive bacterial infections with teicoplanin. Teicoplanin, a glycopeptide antibiotic, was evaluated for safety and efficacy in the treatment of vascular-access-associated bacteremias and of bone and joint infections due to susceptible gram-positive organisms. Of 35 patients enrolled, 26 had osteomyelitis, 8 had vascular-access-associated bacteremias, and 1 had a joint infection. A total of 38 gram-positive isolates were identified: 23 Staphylococcus aureus and 6 coagulase-negative staphylococcus and 9 streptococcus isolates. After at least 6 months of follow-up, 17 patients were evaluable for efficacy: 10 of 14 (71%) with osteomyelitis and 3 of 3 with vascular-access-associated bacteremias had full resolution of their infections. Inadequate debridement, the presence of metal, and inadequate dosing were likely causes of two failures and two relapses in patients with osteomyelitis. For all but two organisms, teicoplanin MICs were less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml. Patients who responded had median peak and trough serum bactericidal levels at serum dilutions of 1:64 and 1:16; trough levels of teicoplanin in serum were greater than 30 micrograms/ml. Patients did not respond as expected to daily doses of 4 mg/kg of body weight, which consequently were increased to greater than or equal to 15 mg/kg. Audiology testing of 20 patients found 2 with a mild loss of high-frequency hearing; 1 patient complained of tinnitus. Patients tolerated peak levels in serum as high as 127 micrograms/ml and trough levels of 49 micrograms/ml. However, 5 of 18 patients (28%) whose daily dose was greater than or equal to 12 mg/kg developed drug fever and rash and had teicoplanin discontinued. Further study of the antibiotic at such higher doses is needed. 
The clinical spectrum of hypocalcaemia associated with bone metastases. Malignancy-related hypocalcaemia has received less attention in the literature than the opposite perturbation, hypercalcaemia. Only, scarce and contradictory data exist about hypocalcaemia associated with bone metastases (BMH). We have reviewed the clinical records of 155 patients with bone metastases of solid tumours, 122 of which were followed during the whole course of the disease until death. The frequency of hypocalcaemia ranged from 5 to 13%, depending on the formula used to correct calcium values for protein concentration. BMH was almost exclusively limited to patients with osteoblastic metastases. The frequency of BMH among patients with prostate carcinoma was 13-27%, depending on the formula used. Only two of 60 patients with lytic bone lesions presented hypocalcaemia, and in both cases it was rather mild. The development of hypocalcaemia did not seem to imply a worse prognosis, at least in patients with carcinoma of the prostate. Thus, the prevalence of BMH appears to be higher than is usually considered. Adequate attention should be given to this disorder because of the potentially deleterious effects on several organ systems. 
Update on esophageal radiology. This article reviews the current status of double-contrast radiography in diagnosing pharyngeal tumors and opportunistic esophagitis and the radiologic evaluation of esophageal motility disorders in patients with chest pain. Double-contrast pharyngography is a valuable technique for detecting pharyngeal tumors. These lesions may be manifested by an intraluminal mass, mucosal irregularity, or asymmetric distensibility. Furthermore, barium studies may demonstrate lesions involving the valleculae, tongue base, lower hypopharynx, and pharyngoesophageal segment that are difficult to visualize at endoscopy. Double-contrast radiography is also a valuable technique for detecting opportunistic esophagitis and for differentiating the underlying causes. Mucosal plaques should suggest Candida esophagitis, whereas discrete ulcers should suggest herpes esophagitis, and one or more large, relatively flat ulcers should suggest cytomegalovirus esophagitis. Finally, in evaluating patients with chest pain, in only a small percentage are esophageal motility disorders found to be a possible cause of their pain. Instead, the majority are found to have cardiac disease, structural esophageal lesions, or gastroesophageal reflux, so that barium studies are more useful in documenting normal motility or structural abnormalities in these patients. 
Diagnosis of segmental necrosis in a pancreas transplant by thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy. Thallium-201 was used to image a patient with a pancreatic transplant. Incomplete visualization of the graft on the 201Tl scan, compared to CT, led to the diagnosis of segmental necrosis of the tail of the graft. Due to the low background and favorable target-to-non-target ratio, 201Tl pancreas scintigraphy may be useful in the follow-up of pancreatic transplants. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of intractable complex partial seizures: pathologic and electroencephalographic correlation. Prior studies indicate variable usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the evaluation of patients with complex partial seizures (CPS), but sensitivities as low as 12% have been reported. We analyzed the MRI examinations of 20 patients with medically refractory CPS who later underwent resection of the seizure focus proven by electroencephalography (EEG). MRI studies were correlated with surgical pathology in all patients. Eleven of the 20 CPS patients had mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS). Seven of the 11 (64%) exhibited an MRI abnormality at the site of the EEG-demonstrated histopathologic focus. MRI abnormalities included temporal lobe hypoplasia or atrophy (four patients), and increased signal intensity on long repetition time (TR) sequences (three patients). Four patients had no MRI abnormalities corresponding to the histopathologic focus. Nine of the 20 CPS patients had other abnormalities responsible for the seizures, including astrocytoma, cryptic vascular malformation, hamartoma, polymicrogyria, tuberous sclerosis (forme fruste), arachnoid cyst, and congenital hemiatrophy. No patient had normal MRI studies. Our single most useful MRI sequence was the coronal long TR/dual echo sequence, using cardiac gating and first-order gradient moment nulling to diminish flow-related artifacts that could hinder evaluation of medial temporal lobe structures. 
Electromyographic activity of selected leg musculature in subjects with normal and chronically sprained ankles performing on a BAPS board. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the magnitude and temporal features of tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, and gastrocnemius muscle activity during exercises performed on a Biomechanical Ankle Platform System (BAPS) board by subjects with normal and chronically sprained ankles. Fourteen participants in each of the two groups rotated the platform in both clockwise and counterclockwise directions at self-selected velocities. Trials were completed with both medium- and large-sized hemispheres under the platform while electromyographic surface recordings were made from the three muscles of interest. Electromyographic values, normalized within individuals as a percentage of maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), ranged from 20% to 80% of MVIC. An analysis of variance for the average myoelectric signals from all three muscles revealed no differences between the two groups. Effects of direction and hemisphere size were shown for all muscles. The large hemisphere produced significantly greater average activity and a more pronounced effect on the tibialis anterior muscle. The data provide information on the level of muscle activity required for conditions used in this study and may assist the physical therapist with making judgments about the use of this device in rehabilitation programs. 
Pancreatic-portal vein fistula with disseminated fat necrosis treated by pancreaticoduodenectomy. I have reported the case of a 62-year-old man with chronic alcoholic pancreatitis and a rare pseudocyst-portal vein fistula. Even though he experienced no abdominal symptoms, he had severe metastatic fat necrosis manifested as subcutaneous fat necrosis, polyarthritis, medullary bone necrosis, and mental status changes. Remote tissue destruction continued until relief was gained by pancreaticoduodenectomy and repair of the necrotic portal vein. Disseminated fat necrosis is a rare syndrome that can be the only presenting feature in patients with pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. Early recognition and treatment of the underlying pancreatic disease may decrease the high morality rate associated with this syndrome. 
Histopathological studies of a new liquid embolization method using estrogen-alcohol and polyvinyl acetate. Experimental evaluations with a model of cortical arterial cannulation in the canine brain. This experimental report evaluates the histopathological effects of a new embolization method using estrogen-alcohol (E-A) and polyvinyl acetate solution (PVac) as tested on 21 mongrel dogs. Three other animals treated with normal saline served as controls. All agents were introduced through an isolated cortical artery. Estrogen-alcohol induced immediate occlusion of small vessels (less than 20 microns), and then progressive obstruction of larger ones (200-300 microns) within several days. Animals treated with PVac showed vascular obliteration (greater than 100 microns) and moderate chronic fibrosis. The effects of embolization using E-A followed by PVac were found to have the combined advantages of both materials, showing diffuse occlusion of the vascular network with less tissue reaction. Hyalinization of embolized vessels with extensive fibrosis occurred afterward. For 6 weeks there was no evidence of recanalization or foreign body giant cell reaction. This study shows that E-A and PVac are capable of producing vascular occlusions with only mild tissue reaction. Because they are easily controllable and have no adverse effects, they may be suitable for intravascular application in the central nervous system. 
ACE inhibitors in the elderly. As the population with hypertension becomes older, it is important to determine the properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in the elderly. The pharmacokinetics and efficacy of captopril, enalapril, and a new once-daily ACE inhibitor, quinapril for the treatment of hypertension in young and elderly patients are reviewed, and the safety profiles of these agents in young and elderly patients are discussed. Although the safely profile of all three drugs is very favorable, quinapril tended to be better tolerated by patients of all ages in comparative clinical trials. 
Ultrasonic decalcification of the aortic annulus during aortic valve replacement. Aortic valve replacement for calcifica aortic stenosis requires meticulous debridement of the aortic annulus to effect optimal valve seating. Since 1987, we have used ultrasonic energy to debride the aortic annulus during aortic valve replacement in 56 patients. In our experience, ultrasonic debridement of the annulus is superior to traditional methods of debridement, affords improved seating of the valve, and may allow placement of a larger valve. Our follow-up ranges from 2 to 32 months (mean follow-up, 13 +/- 9 months) with 0% incidence of paravalvular leak or valve failure. We advocate the use of ultrasonic debridement as an adjunctive tool in aortic valve replacement. 
Fundus photographic risk factors for progression of diabetic retinopathy. ETDRS report number 12. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study, a randomized clinical trial sponsored by the National Eye Institute, one eye of each patient was assigned to early photocoagulation and the other to deferral of photocoagulation (i.e., careful follow-up and initiation of photocoagulation only if high-risk proliferative retinopathy developed). This design allowed observation of the natural course of diabetic retinopathy in the initially untreated eye. Gradings of baseline stereoscopic fundus photographs of eyes with nonproliferative retinopathy assigned to deferral of photocoagulation were used to examine the power of various abnormalities and combinations of abnormalities to predict progression to proliferative retinopathy in photographs taken at the 1-, 3-, and 5-year follow-up visits. Severity of intraretinal microvascular abnormalities, hemorrhages and/or microaneurysms, and venous beading were found to be the most important factors in predicting progression. On the basis of these analyses and other considerations, a retinopathy severity scale was developed. This scale, which divides diabetic retinopathy into 13 levels ranging from absence of retinopathy to severe vitreous hemorrhage, can be used to describe overall retinopathy severity and change in severity over time. 
Effectiveness of histopathological diagnoses in dysfunction of hepatic transplantation. Review of 146 histopathological studies from 53 transplants. In 47 patients who underwent 53 liver transplantations and immunosuppression with cyclosporine (cyclosporin A), methylprednisolone sodium succinate, and antithymocyte globulin, 146 histopathological studies were performed (138 biopsies, six hepatectomies, and two autopsies). The following microscopical diagnoses were made: 43 acute rejections (29.4%), six chronic rejections (4.1%), 18 liver blood perfusion changes (12.3%), 15 biliary changes (10.2%), 10 cases of functional cholestasis (6.8%), two drug reactions (1.3%), two hepatitis B virus recurrences (1.3%), 11 opportunistic viral infections (7.5%), 18 minimal changes (12.3%), two nonclassifiable changes (1.3%), and 19 plurietiological changes (13%). A histopathological diagnosis of acute rejection was made in 31 transplants (58.4%). In 22 (71%) of them, acute rejection was diagnosed with the protocol biopsy specimen that was obtained during the second posttransplant week. Leukocyte counts and serum bilirubin and enzyme levels were obtained on the same day that the hepatic biopsy specimens were taken. There was no significant statistical difference between the mean serum data that accompanied each histopathological diagnosis, allowing identification of a characteristic biochemical profile for the causes of graft dysfunction. We report a detailed description of the microscopical findings of each diagnosis and the following conclusions: (1) Acute rejection is the most frequent cause of hepatic dysfunction and has an early appearance during the posttransplant period. (2) Histopathological findings can identify the causes of the dysfunction. (3) There is no specific biochemical pattern to differentiate these causes. This may be due to the frequent combination of etiological factors in every dysfunction episode. 
Safety of surgical procedures performed by residents. The outcome of surgical procedures on the gallbladder performed by surgical residents in a university hospital was compared with the outcome of those performed by the attending staff. More than 60% of the operations (643/1084) were done by residents under the direct supervision of the attending surgeon. We found no differences in the rate of technical complications, postoperative morbidity and mortality, or length of hospitalization between the two groups. Thus, resident surgery under appropriate guidance is safe and does not compromise the quality of patient care or operative outcome. 
Low-dose chemotherapy with central nervous system prophylaxis and zidovudine maintenance in AIDS-related lymphoma. A prospective multi-institutional trial. OBJECTIVE.--To ascertain if low-dose multiagent chemotherapy, with central nervous system prophylaxis and antiretroviral therapy, might be associated with increased efficacy and decreased risk of intercurrent infection in patients with malignant lymphoma related to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). DESIGN.--A phase II prospective clinical trial, with median follow-up of 33 months. SETTING.--Eight university hospitals, within the context of the AIDS Clinical Trials Units, sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. PATIENTS.--Forty-two patients with AIDS-related malignant lymphoma. All were evaluable for toxicity assessment, and 35 for response. INTERVENTION.--A low-dose modification of the M-BACOD regimen (day 1): cyclophosphamide, 300 mg/m2 intravenously (IV); doxorubicin, 25 mg/m2 IV; vincristine sulfate, 1.4 mg/m2 IV; bleomycin, 4 mg/m2 IV; dexamethasone, 3 mg/m2 orally on days 1 through 5; methotrexate, 500 mg/m2 IV on day 15, with leucovorin rescue. Intrathecal cytosine arabinoside (50 mg) to all on days 1, 8, 21, and 28, with radiation therapy to a helmet field to those with central nervous system involvement. Zidovudine for 12 months after completion of four to six cycles of chemotherapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Response rate and number of opportunistic infections. RESULTS.--Response rate was 51% with a complete response of 46%. Of 16 complete responses, relapse occurred in four, none isolated to the central nervous system. Opportunistic infections occurred in 21% of those receiving treatment. Median duration of survival among all 42 patients is 5.6 months, 6.5 months in 35 patients evaluable for response, and 15 months in patients with complete response. Lower concentration of CD4 cells, history of prior AIDS, bone marrow involvement, and stage IV disease were independently associated with decreased survival. CONCLUSIONS.--Low-dose chemotherapy with central nervous system prophylaxis and zidovudine maintenance may be associated with durable remissions in AIDS-related lymphoma with fewer opportunistic infections than noted in prior reports. 
Intracerebral hemorrhage, cerebral infarction, and subdural hematoma after acute myocardial infarction and thrombolytic therapy in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction Study. Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II, pilot and clinical trial. In the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II pilot and clinical trial, 908 patients [326 (35.9%) in the pilot study and 582 (64.0%) in the randomized study] were treated with 150 mg recombinant tissue-type plasminogen (rt-PA) activator in combination with heparin and aspirin, and 3,016 patients [64 (2.1%) in the pilot study and 2,952 (97.9%) in the randomized study] were treated with 100 mg rt-PA in combination with heparin and aspirin. Adverse neurological events occurred in 23 patients treated with 150 mg rt-PA (2.5%) [nine cerebral infarctions (1.0%), 12 intracerebral hemorrhages (1.3%), and two subdural hematomas (0.2%)] and in 33 patients treated with 100 mg rt-PA (1.1%) [20 cerebral infarctions (0.7%), 11 intracerebral hemorrhages (0.4%), and two subdural hematomas (0.1%)]. The difference in adverse neurological events observed comparing the two rt-PA regimens was primarily due to a higher frequency of intracerebral bleeding among patients treated with 150 mg rt-PA (1.3% versus 0.4%, p less than 0.01). Patients with recent (within 6 months) histories of stroke were not eligible for the study, and patients with any history of cerebrovascular disease were declared ineligible early in the study. The small number of patients (89, or 2.3%) with any history of neurological disease, intermittent cerebral ischemic attacks, or stroke who were enrolled before the stricter eligibility criteria were imposed or on the basis of incomplete baseline information experienced an increased frequency of intracerebral hemorrhage compared with patients without such histories (3.4% versus 0.5%). Mortality at 6 weeks after presentation among 23 patients who had intracerebral hemorrhage was 47.8%. Intracerebral hemorrhage is a severe but infrequent complication of rt-PA therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The combined frequency of intracerebral hemorrhage, subdural hematoma, and cerebral infarction after treatment with 100 mg rt-PA is comparable to that observed in other trials with thrombolytic agents in acute myocardial infarction. 
Annular colon lipoma: a case report and review of the literature. Colonic lipomas are generally mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic pedunculated or sessile polyps, although they have been reported to cause intussusception or significant bleeding. The difficulty in differentiation is primarily with adenomatous polyps. We describe the unique case of a symptomatic annular colon lipoma simulating an annular colon carcinoma. 
An investigation into the etiology of irritable hip. A prospective review has been made of 111 children who presented with acute hip pain to determine it's etiology and assess the need for multiple investigations at presentation. There was no clinical hematological, serological or bacteriological evidence to identify positively patients with an irritable hip, neither was there good correlation with a history of infection. An effusion was diagnosed by ultrasound in 71% but there were no factors, either clinically or by investigation, to differentiate between patients with or without an effusion. We conclude that multiple investigations to find a source of infection in patients with irritable hip are not warranted as they are rarely positive, seldom affect management and are of no help in investigating the etiology of irritable hip. 
National surveillance of dialysis-associated diseases in the United States, 1989. To determine trends in a variety of dialysis-associated diseases and practices, the Centers for Disease Control surveyed 1,867 chronic hemodialysis centers in the United States in 1989 in conjunction with the annual facility survey performed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The response rate to a mailed questionnaire was 92%. These 1,726 centers represented 122,734 patients and 32,486 staff members. The following results were found. 1) During the last 14 years, the incidence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection decreased from 3.0 to 0.1% among patients, and from 2.6 to 0.1% among staff members. Over the same time, the prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positivity declined from 7.8 to 1.4% among patients and from 0.9 to 0.3% among staff members. Hepatitis B vaccine was given by 92% of the centers. By the end of 1989, 19% of susceptible patients and 55% of susceptible staff members had received all three doses of hepatitis B vaccine. From 1982 to 1989, as a result of receiving vaccine, the prevalence of antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs) increased from 12 to 19% among patients and from 18 to 54% among staff. The incidence of non-A, non-B hepatitis in 1989 was reported to be 0.7% among patients and 0.1% among staff members. 2) Twenty-two percent of the centers reported pyrogenic reactions in the absence of septicemia among their patients, and 51% reported septicemia. 3) The reported incidence of dialysis dementia among hemodialysis patients was 0.2%, with a case fatality rate of 23%. 4) In 1989, 68% of centers reported that they reused disposable dialyzers; these centers treated 73% of the dialysis patient population. Among centers that reused disposable dialyzers, the average number of reuses ranged from 1 to 50 (mean, 12) and the maximum number of times a disposable dialyzer was ever reused ranged from 3 to 150 (mean, 28). Chemical germicides used for reprocessing dialyzers included formaldehyde, Renalin (a peracetic acid-hydrogen peroxide-based germicide), and glutaraldehyde-based germicides. Reuse of disposable dialyzers was not associated with any increased risk of acquiring HBV infection among either patients or staff. However, pyrogenic reactions occurring in clusters were reported more frequently in centers that reused conventional dialyzer membranes compared with centers that did not. This increased risk was associated only with centers that used Renalin or glutaraldehyde for reprocessing (not formaldehyde) and occurred with both automated and manual reprocessing systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Cutaneous lymphomas of phenotypically undetermined lineage: contribution of genotypic analysis. Genotypic analyses were performed in six primary cutaneous lymphomas whose lineage could not be assessed on the basis of histologic and phenotypic data. By immunophenotyping, these neoplasms expressed leukocyte common antigen and HLA-DR but did not show consistent immunostaining for B-cell or T-cell differentiation antigens. Expression of nonspecific histiocytic markers such as lysozyme and alpha 1-antitrypsin was found in three cases. By genotyping, three cases retained a germline configuration and immunoglobulin gene rearrangement was observed in one case, T-cell receptor gene rearrangement was found in one case, and both types of rearrangements in one case. Of the three patients in whom gene rearrangements were noted, two rapidly died and the other patient, with a dual genotype, is still alive 15 years after diagnosis. The three patients without gene rearrangements are alive and well after a mean follow-up of 2.5 years. It appears that cutaneous lymphomas with an uncertain phenotype include at least some cases of authentic B-cell or T-cell lymphomas. The germline configuration that we observed in cases with a chronic course remains difficult to explain. It may be related to a low malignancy form of histiocytic lymphoma, an atypical polyclonal hyperplasia, or even a low-grade lymphoma arising from a primitive cell without established commitment to either B- or T-cell lineage. 
Decreased oxyhemoglobin affinity in patients with sleep apnea syndrome. Oxyhemogloblin affinity (P50 at pH 7.4, PaCO2 = 40 mm Hg, temperature = 37 degrees C) and 2,3-DPG concentration were assessed in 15 nonsmokers (14 men and one woman 46 to 63 yr of age) with sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) and in 10 normal subjects (eight men and two women 22 to 48 yr of age). In patients with SAS, mean nocturnal apnea index was 46 +/- 20/h, and mean nocturnal SO2 was 86 +/- 6% versus 94.6 +/- 1.8% during the daytime. Daytime mean P50 of the patients was 28.5 +/- 1.2 mm Hg versus 27.1 +/- 0.3 mm Hg in the normal subjects (p less than 0.05). Daytime mean 2.3-DPG was 1.23 +/- 0.25 moles DPG/mole hemoglobin versus 0.80 +/- 0.15 (p less than 0.05). Significant correlations were found in patients between P50 and mean nocturnal SO2 (r = -0.62, p less than 0.01) and between P50 and 2,3-DPG (r = 0.68, p less than 0.01). The measurements were repeated in five patients after surgical or positive-pressure treatment. P50 and 2,3-DPG both decreased and returned to normal values. In conclusion, the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve is shifted to the right in patients with SAS and there is an increase in 2,3-DPG. These could be protective mechanisms against the development of polycythemia, pulmonary hypertension, and cor pulmonale. 
Quantitative determination of acid-labile DNA in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Using a modified Feulgen hydrolysis procedure and integrating microdensitometry, the acid-labile nuclear DNA in exfoliated cervical epithelial cells was quantified in a range of histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), invasive cancer, and normal controls. The mean relative optical densities obtained for each sample group showed an increase from normal epithelium, through CIN grades, to invasive cancer. Although there was some overlap between groups, the difference in the overall mean values between the adjacent groups was statistically significant. The sensitivity of the test was 87.1% with a specificity of 99.2% and a predictive value of 99.5%, with no false negatives in the severe dysplasia and cancer groups. Quantitative data allows the threshold value to be altered to vary the sensitivity and specificity according to prevailing requirements. This suggests the possibility of using quantitative acid-labile DNA measurements to improve existing screening for cervical precancer. 
Selective spinal panangiography: use of a 4-F braided catheter with a soft-tip configuration. A 4-F braided catheter with a soft radiopaque tip was used in selective spinal panangiographic procedures. Results obtained with the catheter were compared with those obtained in procedures with conventional catheters. The catheter was used in the intercostal, lumbar, and sacral arteries. Advantages of using this catheter include excellent maneuverability, reduced patient exposure to contrast medium, and reduced fluoroscopy duration. 
Cerebrospinal fluid atrial natriuretic factor in intracranial disease. We tested the hypothesis that the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid is an indicator of brain injury in patients with intracranial disease. Atrial natriuretic factor concentration was measured in 72 samples of cerebrospinal fluid from 28 patients with intraventricular drains and in nine samples from outpatient controls undergoing diagnostic lumbar puncture. Levels were correlated with diagnosis; systemic fluid administration; concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the plasma; intracranial pressure; sodium, glucose, and protein concentrations, osmolality, and cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid; sodium concentration in the serum; and hemodynamics. Atrial natriuretic factor concentration was highest in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with intracerebral hematoma, followed by those with obstructive hydrocephalus and subarachnoid hemorrhage (19 +/- 2, 13 +/- 3, and 8 +/- 2 pg/ml, respectively); atrial natriuretic factor concentration was less than 4 pg/ml in the controls. Patients treated with fluid restriction had significantly higher atrial natriuretic factor levels than those receiving maintenance or high-volume fluids (16 +/- 3, 8 +/- 2, 10 +/- 1 pg/ml, respectively). The concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the plasma was significantly elevated in patients with intracerebral hematoma and subarachnoid hemorrhage (155 +/- 38 and 92 +/- 20 pg/ml, respectively) and did not correlate with fluid administration or the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid. Neither cerebrospinal fluid nor plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor correlated with intracranial pressure; cerebrospinal fluid sodium, glucose, or protein concentrations, osmolality, or cell count; serum sodium concentration; or hemodynamics. We conclude that the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid is a nonspecific indicator of brain injury. 
Axillosubclavian vein thrombosis: case report. Deep-vein thrombosis of the upper extremity, that is, axillosubclavian vein thrombosis, is a relatively rare and potentially overlooked diagnosis in the emergency department (ED). It can be the cause of significant morbidity and it may be life-threatening. Reported here is the case of a 23-year-old man who presented to the ED with left upper extremity pain and swelling. Venography confirmed the diagnosis of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis. Hospitalization and treatment with intravenous heparin led to a satisfactory recovery. The clinical presentation, predisposing factors, diagnosis, treatment, and complications of this rare entity are discussed. 
Quantitative sensory testing before and after regional guanethidine block in patients with neuralgia in the hand. Using reference values from healthy volunteers, thermal and vibration-induced pain thresholds and the sensibility for warm and cold were studied in 18 patients with neuralgia in one hand following a traumatic injury or surgery. All patients had spontaneous pain and allodynia to vibration. They were treated with intravenous regional guanethidine block (RGB). Quantitative sensory testing was performed on both hands before and 1-3 days after treatment. Eleven patients benefitted considerably from the block, with pain relief for 2 weeks or more. Ten of these 11 patients had mild nerve injuries caused by compressive trauma to the nerve. Before RGB they showed a moderate loss in temperature discrimination capacity; their heat pain thresholds were reduced and they exhibited allodynia to cold and vibration on the injured side. After RGB, the pain thresholds were normalised both to thermal and vibratory stimuli. These patients were classified as having sympathetically maintained pain (SMP). Seven patients reported no or only minor pain-relieving effect of RGB lasting 1-5 days. Severe nerve injuries were most frequent in this group of patients. On the injured side, before RGB, their ability to discriminate between warm and cold was markedly impaired, thermal pain thresholds were normal, and they showed allodynia to vibration. After RGB, there was no change in thermal pain thresholds and the allodynia to vibration persisted. These patients were classified as having sympathetically independent pain (SIP). The results indicate that quantitative thermal sensory tests, together with clinical evaluation of the nerve trauma, can help to predict which patients will have long-lasting pain alleviation after RGB treatment. 
Diagnosis and localization of laceration of the thoracic duct: usefulness of lymphangiography and CT. The usefulness of lymphangiography and CT in the diagnosis and localization of laceration of the thoracic duct was evaluated in 12 patients with chylothorax or chylous ascites after surgery. Bipedal lymphangiography was performed in all 12 patients. The last four patients studied also had CT after lymphangiography. Seven patients had abnormal findings on lymphangiograms; five with leaks from the thoracic duct, one with a lymphocele in a nephrectomy bed, and one with obstructed intestinal lymphatic vessels after thoracotomy. Five patients had no evidence of lymphatic leakage. CT in one patient with evidence of a leak on lymphangiography showed extravasation of contrast medium into the mediastinum and pleural space. CT in three patients with no abnormalities on lymphangiography also showed no abnormalities. Four of the five thoracic duct lacerations and the lymphocele were confirmed surgically. The diagnosis of obstructed intestinal lymphatic vessels was supported clinically. Four of the five patients with normal findings on lymphangiograms had resolution of their pleural effusions and no evidence of recurrence during a follow-up period of 1-27 months. One patient with normal findings on lymphangiography had an alternative diagnosis established at surgery. Laceration of the thoracic duct was accurately diagnosed and localized with lymphangiography, which allowed definitive surgical repair. CT was of little additional value in diagnosing these injuries. 
A comparative trial of LC9018 plus doxorubicin and doxorubicin alone for the treatment of malignant pleural effusion secondary to lung cancer. The efficacy and safety of intrapleural LC9018 (Yakult Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan) with or without doxorubicin (Adriamycin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) were evaluated in a randomized, controlled trial performed in 95 patients with malignant pleural effusions secondary to lung cancer. Seventy-six patients were eligible for the assessment of efficacy. The response rate for treatment with intrapleural doxorubicin plus LC9018 (38 patients) was 73.7%, which was significantly higher than the response rate of 39.5% for the control group treated with doxorubicin alone (38 patients) (P less than 0.01). The LC9018 group also showed a significantly greater improvement in performance status (PS) and symptoms (chest pain, chest discomfort, and anorexia) than the control group (P less than 0.05). A significant prolongation of survival was noticed in the LC9018 group (P less than 0.05). The main side effects of LC9018 were fever and transient hepatic dysfunction, but there were no serious adverse reactions. These results suggest that the intrapleural instillation of LC9018 can be recommended for the treatment of malignant pleural effusions. 
Impact of intensified therapy on clinical outcome in infants and children with neuroblastoma: the St Jude Children's Research Hospital experience, 1962 to 1988. To gauge the impact of intensified therapy on the survival of infants (younger than 1 year, n = 129) and children (greater than or equal to 1 year of age, n = 275) with neuroblastoma, we analyzed the results of eight successive clinical trials comparing various combinations of antineoplastic drugs, surgery, and radiotherapy. Changes in treatment did not affect the survival of children with involved noncontiguous lymph nodes or distant metastatic disease until the combination of cisplatin and teniposide (CDDP/VM26) was added to a basic regimen of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin (CTX/DOX). The resulting 4-year survival was 28% +/- 5% (SE) compared with 7% +/- 2% for previous treatments (P less than .001 by the log-rank test). The 4-year survival of infants with metastatic disease was improved by administering CTX/DOX to all patients, reserving CDDP/VM26 for those whose disease was resistant to the former combination: 82% +/- 6% versus 45% +/- 8% in earlier studies; P less than .001. In the subset of infants whose tumors had disseminated to bone or bone marrow at diagnosis, this therapeutic approach increased the probability of long-term survival from 48% +/- 10% to 85% +/- 9% (P = .01). The small group of children over 1 year of age with localized unresectable tumors also fared significantly better with the switch to CTX/DOX chemotherapy (4-year survival, 93% +/- 7% v 42% +/- 13%; P = .02). Multivariate analysis indicated that young age, limited-disease stage, nonadrenal primary site, and intensified treatment were independent predictors of a more favorable outcome. We conclude that substantial advances in the treatment of neuroblastoma have occurred over the past 25 years at this institution. The current overall 4-year survival probability of 57% +/- 4% compares favorably with estimates for most other common solid tumors of childhood. 
Mycotic aneurysms of the carotid arteries--case report and review of the literature. Mycotic aneurysms of the extracranial carotid arteries are rare. We report a new case with a mycotic aneurysm of the carotid bifurcation associated with acute bacterial endocarditis of the aortic valve. A concomitant treatment of both lesions was performed. Twenty-six cases of mycotic aneurysms of the extracranial carotid arteries have been reported in the literature. We present a review of all these cases. 
Endoprosthetic replacement for stage IIB osteosarcoma. Over an eight-year period, 100 patients with IIB osteosarcoma have been managed. Eighty-one were treated with limb-salvage procedures, 78 of which involved reconstruction utilizing endoprostheses. Only 19 patients received amputation as the primary treatment for local control. Since 1984, all patients received preoperative and post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy. Those patients who received chemotherapy had a statistically significant improvement in five-year survival over those who did not (57% and 32%, respectively, p = 0.014). The functional results were good overall, with excellent results seen in distal femoral reconstruction. Twenty-eight of the 78 patients treated with endoprosthetic reconstruction experienced 30 complications (36%). Mechanical failure was the most common complication (10%) but was generally correctable. The local recurrence rate was 5% and the infection rate was 3%. Local complications were manageable. A statistical analysis revealed that the relative risk of patient death was 2.5 times higher than prosthesis failure for the 78 patients with endoprosthetic reconstruction. The intermediate-term results, with a median follow-up period of 43 months, remains encouraging. 
Regional myocardial function after repetitive brief episodes of ischemia: effect of altering the duration of the reperfusion period. How recovery of regional contractile function in myocardium is influenced by alterations in the duration of reperfusion after repetitive brief coronary artery occlusions was investigated in chronically instrumented, conscious dogs. All animals underwent five 5 minute left anterior descending coronary artery occlusions with a final 5-hour reperfusion period. Dogs were randomly assigned to one of three groups determined by the duration of reperfusion (5, 10, or 15 minutes) between successive 5-minute occlusion periods. A shortening of the duration of the reperfusion period between occlusions led to reduced recovery and progressive deterioration in systolic shortening after multiple occlusion-reperfusion sequences. With 15-minute reperfusion periods, the percentage of segment shortening (%SS) during the first through fourth reperfusion periods ranged from 17.1 +/- 2.6% to 18.2 +/- 1.8% and did not differ from the preocclusion control value (18.8 +/- 1.7%) by the end of the final reperfusion period. In contrast, in those dogs with 5-minute reperfusion periods, %SS was significantly reduced from the preocclusion control value (20.2 +/- 2.2%) at the completion of the final 5-hour reperfusion period (11.4 +/- 1.5%). Results of the present study indicate that after only a few brief periods of coronary artery occlusion, rapid and cumulative deterioration in regional contractile function can occur when the duration of intermittent reperfusion is sufficiently brief. 
Distribution of dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) in the liver and portal lymph nodes of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis: an immunohistochemical study. The reason for the close association between primary biliary cirrhosis and the appearance of antibodies that recognize the E2 component of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex is not understood. The distribution of the three pyruvate dehydrogenase complex subunits was examined in the liver and lymph nodes of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, patients with other liver diseases and normal subjects by immunohistochemistry using affinity-purified antibodies. Intensity of staining was assessed semiquantitatively and validated by scanning laser confocal microscopy. In primary biliary cirrhosis tissue, the E2 staining pattern did not parallel the reported distribution of mitochondria. E2 staining in biliary epithelial cells was consistently stronger than in hepatocytes. In primary biliary cirrhotic liver, staining of biliary epithelium was significantly stronger than in normal or other liver disease controls; many bile ducts in primary biliary cirrhotic liver demonstrated very high intensity, diffuse distribution of stain. No differences in staining intensity were seen between perivenular hepatocytes in primary biliary cirrhotic liver and those in controls; periportal hepatocytes in primary biliary cirrhotic liver were, however, more intensely stained than perivenular cells. In primary biliary cirrhotic portal lymph nodes, a subset of macrophages showed high-intensity, diffuse distribution of stain. By contrast, staining with antibodies to E1 and E3 (other components of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex) produced uniform-intensity, mitochondrial distribution both in primary biliary cirrhosis and control tissue. The increased intensity of E2 in primary biliary cirrhotic tissue could be explained in terms of abnormal metabolism of E2 by biliary epithelial cells. 
Cardiovascular collapse following orthoclone OKT3 administration: a case report. Orthoclone OKT3 has been described to have significant adverse effects on the cardiovascular system, including pulmonary edema, angina, dysrhythmias, hypertension, and hypotension, usually following the first or second doses of the drug. We describe a case of cardiopulmonary arrest in a patient 1 minute after the initial injection of OKT3. Two subsequent doses were successfully administered with the guidance of hemodynamic monitoring, which showed profound, immediate effects of OKT3 on the cardiovascular system. Potential mechanisms of these effects are discussed. 
Long-term follow-up of children with testicular tumours: surgical issues. Testicular tumours are rare in childhood. The clinical, pathological and follow-up details of 48 children are presented. The combined approach of surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy is confirmed as being extremely effective. Transcrotal orchiectomy is not an appropriate surgical procedure. Testicular biopsy is detrimental to prognosis. 
Impaired heart rate variability in patients with chronic Chagas' disease. Spectral analysis of heart rate variability was used to investigate the possible alteration in sympathovagal control of heart rate in patients with Chagas' disease. The study included 31 subjects, divided into three groups: controls, Chagas' 1 (subjects with only positive serology for Chagas' disease) and Chagas' 2 (subjects with positive serology and electrocardiographic abnormalities that are usually found in this disease). The subjects were studied during rest, while standing, and during handgrip exercise. With this approach, the low frequency (approximately 0.1 Hz) spectral component of R-R interval variability is considered to be a marker primarily of sympathetic activity, whereas the high frequency (approximately 0.25 Hz) component, which is related to respiration, seems mainly to reflect vagal activity. We observed significant (p less than 0.05) differences among the three groups during standing: although in the control subjects the low-frequency component increased (delta = 30 +/- 5 normalized units, nu), there was no increase in Chagas' 1 (delta = -1 +/- 8 nu) and Chagas' 2 (delta = -2 +/- 8 nu) patients. During handgrip exercise, another test that is capable of exciting sympathetic outflow, there was an increase of low frequency only in control subjects. These results confirm the occurrence of quantitative and assessable abnormalities in the neural control of heart rate variability in Argentinian patients with chronic Chagas' disease, even in the absence of heart failure. 
Clinical outcome and health care costs in renal revascularization--percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty versus reconstructive surgery. Clinical outcome and health care costs related to investigation, treatment with either percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) or reconstructive surgery, and follow-up of patients with renovascular hypertension with or without uraemia were analysed in 21 PTRA-treated and 16 operated patients. Most renal artery stenoses were atherosclerotic. Nineteen PTRAs were successful or partly successful and two failed; the patients were operated on without delay. All surgical reconstructions were successful. In the PTRA group six restenoses occurred after 4-24 months. Four were treated with re-PTRA and two were operated on. No recurrence occurred in the operated group. At the end of follow-up (median 48, range 9-84 months) primary patency in the PTRA group was 69 per cent and in the operated group 100 per cent. Secondary patency in the PTRA group was 100 per cent. With regard to hypertension, including primary and secondary results, 19 out of 21 (90 per cent) patients were improved in the PTRA group and 13 out of 16 (81 per cent) in the operated group. The diagnostic and preprocedure costs were the same in both groups, whereas the procedure and postprocedure costs were lower in the PTRA group. However, the follow-up costs were considerably higher because of recurrences and their treatment in the PTRA group. The total median cost of reconstructive surgery was 12 per cent higher than for PTRA, a non-significant difference. 
Kinetics of T cell activation in acute and chronic forms of murine graft-versus-host disease. Induction of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in the parent-into-F1 model is dependent on the presence of T cells in the donor inoculum. Although in vivo activation of donor T cells in response to F1 alloantigens is thought to be critical to GVHD induction, direct evidence of activated donor T cells has been lacking in this model. In the present study, spleen cells from acute or chronic GVHD mice were studied for evidence of T cell activation at multiple intervals early after GVHD induction. Spleen cells from both acute and chronic GVHD mice exhibited striking elevations in spontaneous proliferation and IL-2 production, which were maximal 24 to 48 h after GVHD induction. Persistent lower levels of spontaneous in vitro activity were observed for spleen cells from mice tested 7 to 9 days after GVHD induction. In both forms of GVHD, increased spontaneous proliferation and IL-2 production were dependent on the presence of donor CD4+ T cells. These results strongly support the presence of activated donor T cells in vivo. Furthermore, these data imply that despite the significant differences in outcome, acute and chronic GVHD share a common early event. 
Cerebrovascular disease in hypertensive blacks. There is convincing evidence that all grades of persistent diastolic hypertension, especially in blacks, should be treated in order to prevent stroke and other cardiovascular complications. Studies are now in progress to gather additional information concerning isolated systolic hypertension, especially in the aged. Inasmuch as at least one half or more of stroke deaths in blacks develop as the result of hypertension, lowering blood pressure offers the perfect opportunity to reduce considerably the frequency of this devastating illness. The recent dramatic fall in U.S. stroke mortality, greatest in the black female, is a commendable achievement, but the flattening of the declining mortality curve over the past several years should be a cause for alarm and intensive investigation. 
Mycobacterium fortuitum presenting as an asymptomatic enlarging pulmonary nodule. A case of Mycobacterium fortuitum presenting as an asymptomatic enlarging pulmonary nodule is described. This case is unusual because the patient was female, did not have underlying pulmonary disease, was not immunocompromised, had no evidence of dissemination, and had no history of aspiration or diabetes mellitus. The patient underwent thoractomy for resection of the pulmonary nodule, which led to the diagnosis. She recovered fully and is doing well without chemotherapy. 
Inverted papillomas and associated squamous cell carcinomas. Inverted papillomas of the nose and paranasal sinuses are found to be associated with squamous cell carcinomas in a small percentage of cases. The records of forty-six patients treated for inverted papillomas in these areas over a 10-year period were reviewed. Eleven patients (24%) were found to have squamous cell carcinoma, and one carcinoma in situ, in relationship to the inverted papillomas. This is a much higher percentage than generally reported. Four of these patients were found to have inverted papillomas coincidentally in surgical specimens resected for squamous cell carcinoma. Patients with squamous cell carcinoma were found to be in older age groups, were more likely to manifest epistaxis than the more common unilateral nasal obstructive symptoms, and had less time between the onset of symptoms and presentation than those with inverted papillomas alone. The clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of inverted papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas in association with inverted papillomas are discussed. 
Computed tomographic scan confirmation of paraprosthetic enteric fistula. Aortoenteric anastomotic fistulae and paraprosthetic graft infections are rare but devastating complications following aortic graft surgery. Although the incidence of these complications is reported to be less than 2%, the difficulty in diagnosis and management has led to high mortality rates and extensive morbidity. The majority of patients present with either groin infection or significant gastrointestinal tract bleeding. There is, however, a subset of patients with nonspecific clinical findings in whom routine studies are not diagnostic. Computed tomography was a useful adjunct to the diagnosis of retroperitoneal infection in these patients by demonstrating small collections of periaortic gas or "black dots." The presence of periaortic gas in each instance proved to be a specific sign of a paraprosthetic-enteric fistula, as opposed to a graft infection without intestinal communication. 
Influence of hepatitis B virus infection and age on mode of growth of hepatocellular carcinoma. According to the extent of hepatic involvement of the tumor and that of portal vein invasion at the time of initial diagnosis, patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were grouped into three or four groups. Correlations among the extent of hepatic involvement, extent of portal vein invasion, and prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and age distribution were examined. The extent of hepatic involvement of the tumor and that of portal vein invasion were significantly greater in patients with positive HBsAg compared with findings in the negative patients (P less than 0.001). For cases of both positive and negative HBsAg, patients with a more extensive HCC were significantly younger. Results of the multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that hepatitis B antigenemia and younger age were statistically significant and independent positive predictors of extensive HCC. These results strongly suggest that hepatitis B surface antigenemia and age play an important role in the growth mode and the kinetics of HCC in Japanese patients. 
Hydroureteronephrosis secondary to perforated Meckel's diverticulum. Complications related to Meckel's diverticulum are not unusual. However, involvement of the urinary tract is extremely rare. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of ureteral obstruction due to perforation of Meckel's diverticulum. 
Neutropenia-wise and pound-foolish: safe and effective chemotherapy in massively obese patients. The massively obese patients had an increased risk of cancer and complications from therapy. Chemotherapy in massively obese patients may be complicated by difficulty in calculating body surface area. No guidelines exist for calculating doses by either actual or ideal weight, and the calculated doses may vary by as much as 25%. The pharmacokinetics of antineoplastic drugs in obese patients are poorly understood and are not sufficient to create standards for rational dosing. We propose that patients being treated with curative intent receive full-dose intensity, using body surface area calculated on actual body weight or on ideal body weight with dose escalations if tolerated. Patients who are treated for short-term palliation may be more safely given doses based on ideal body weight. 
Reperitonealization of the lesser curve in proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulcer. Ninety-six consecutive patients were operated upon with proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulcer at our department during the two year period 1976 to 1978. These patients were prospectively randomized into two groups, one of which (45 patients) had reperitonealization of the lesser curve. These two groups are compared herein. Reperitonealization of the lesser curve was without benefit on long term clinical results, ulcer recurrence rate and gastric acid secretion. None of the patients had perforation of the lesser curve. 
Endoscopic ultrasound in pancreatic tumor diagnosis. In a prospective study from 1988 to 1990, 132 patients with suspected pancreatic tumor were examined with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), transabdominal ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT), and ERCP. The final diagnosis of 102 pancreatic tumors of different origin (76 malignant and 26 inflammatory tumors) and the exclusion of a pancreatic tumor in 30 patients was made by operation (N = 47), puncture (N = 36), autopsy (N = 3), or follow-up of a mean of 51 weeks (N = 46). Sensitivity and specificity in pancreatic tumor diagnosis were significantly higher for EUS (99% and 100%) than for US (67%/40%) and CT (77%/53%) and equal to ERCP (sensitivity 90%). This was even more obvious in small pancreatic tumors of 3 cm and less. However, as with the other imaging procedures, EUS was not able to differentiate reliably malignant from inflammatory pancreatic masses (accuracy 76% for malignancy and 46% for focal inflammation). From analysis of the endosonographic pattern of pancreatic tumors, no consistent morphologic features were identified which could have been specifically attributed to malignant or inflammatory masses. Our results show that EUS is superior to US and CT and equal to ERCP in pancreatic tumor diagnosis. In contrast to the indirect evidence obtained by ERCP, EUS provides direct visualization of tumor size and shape in almost all patients examined. Thus, EUS should be considered early in the evaluation of patients with suspected pancreatic tumors. 
Serum lactate dehydrogenase-3 isoenzyme in chronic granulocytic leukemia. Abnormal levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase-3 (LD-3) activity were observed in 92% of patients (35 of 38) with active chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL), in 40% of patients (4 of 10) in partial remission, and in 13% of patients (1 of 8) in complete remission. In evaluating the electrophoretic LD isoenzyme patterns of these patients, three criteria were used. In criterion-1 elevations, the LD-3/total LD ratio, expressed as a fraction of serum total LD, and LD-3 value, expressed in absolute units, were greater than the upper limit of the reference range. In criterion-2 elevations, only the LD-3/total LD ratio was greater than the upper limit of the reference range. In criterion-3 elevations, only the absolute LD-3 activity exceeded the upper limit of the reference range, and these specimens showed isomorphic elevation of all five LD isoenzymes. Use of the last of these criteria increased the clinical sensitivity of serum LD-3 elevations in active CGL from 82% to 92%. The mean serum LD-3 absolute value and serum total LD activity usually showed statistically significant differences (P less than 0.05) among patients with active CGL, those in partial remission, and those in complete remission, but did not distinguish between subgroups of individuals with active CGL. Elevation of the serum LD-5/total LD ratio in 16 of 58 patients was due to hepatic injury or methodologic imprecision, showing analytically insignificant, borderline abnormalities in all cases of active CGL. In 10 of 62 patients in complete remission or partial remission, however, such elevation was unexplained. Our results indicate that the evaluation of serum LD-3 values in both absolute and relative terms slightly increases the clinical sensitivity of LD-3, and, therefore, suggest that LD-3 might be a useful marker for CGL. 
Rapid orocecal transit in chronically active persons with high energy intake. Although chronic physical activity by humans can raise energy requirements and energy intake severalfold above sedentary levels, whether these increases alter digestive strategy remains unknown. To investigate this possibility, food passage rate (mouth-to-large intestinal lactulose transit) and absorption (xylose) were compared in a cross section of young men chosen to represent a wide range of daily physical activity and food intake. In 20 men (energy intake 1,272-5,342 kcal/day), resting mouth-to-cecum transit was faster in high caloric consumers (r = -0.69, P less than 0.01). In contrast, xylose absorption (n = 26; measured either as urinary xylose excretion or integrated breath H2 production from the sugar) was unrelated to food intake. Dietary fiber intake was uncorrelated with energy intake. This apparent human digestive strategy of rapid transit across the gut absorptive surface, without a sacrifice in absorption, parallels the adaptations made by several animal species similarly faced with increased energy demand at constant fiber intake. We therefore conclude that the hyperphagia of chronic exercise in humans may be linked with significant gastrointestinal adaptations. 
Local eradication of rat colon cancer with photodynamic therapy: correlation of distribution of photosensitiser with biological effects in normal and tumour tissue. Photodynamic therapy is a photochemical technique for the local destruction of tumours, entailing the interaction of light with an administered photosensitiser to produce a cytotoxic effect. We investigated the tissue distribution of the photosensitiser aluminium sulphonated phthalocyanine (AlSPc) in dimethylhydrazine induced colonic tumours and adjacent normal colon in rats. Forty eight hours after intravenous injection, most tumours contained twice as much AlSPc as normal colon. Tumour size and position in the colon did not affect AlSPc concentration. Microscopic fluorescence localisation of AlSPc showed significant photosensitiser accumulation in tumour stroma, whereas tumour and normal mucosa contained similar amounts. Thus, some normal tissue damage, where malignant cells invade normal areas, would inevitably accompany eradication of tumours. Tumour destruction and healing of colon after tumour eradication were examined histologically. There was sharp demarcation between necrotic areas (tumour or normal) and adjacent tissue and, whether the treated area was tumour or normal, healing occurred by regeneration of normal tissue. Some incompletely eradicated large tumours showed evidence of delayed bleeding. The possibility of selective uptake or preferential retention of the photosensitiser in tumours formed the initial basis for investigation of photodynamic therapy, but it is now clear that this is seldom the most important factor for tumour eradication. Of far greater importance is the nature of the biological effect of photodynamic therapy as necrosis of small tumours involving the full thickness of the bowel wall can be achieved with safe healing by regeneration of normal colon. The maximum depth of necrosis produced was only a few millimetres, so this technique is unlikely to be of value as the primary treatment for large colonic tumours but may prove of value for eradicating small lesions or as adjunctive therapy for eradication of small nests of tumour remaining or recurring in the tumour bed after conventional surgery. 
Unruptured intracranial aneurysms: seizures and antiepileptic drug treatment following surgery. Twenty-one patients operated on for unruptured intracranial aneurysms were studied retrospectively in order to identify the incidence of postoperative seizures, factors predictive of seizures, and the response to discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs. The overall risk of postoperative seizures in initially seizure-free patients was 15.7%. Although seizures were not uncommon, antiepileptic drugs were successfully tapered in most of the patients before 12 months. 
Correlation of the amnestic effects of nicotinic antagonists with inhibition of regional brain acetylcholine synthesis in rats. Acetylcholine (ACh) is considered to play a primary role in normal mnemonic functioning. Although most research has centered on the central muscarinic cholinergic system, of recent interest in normal and pathologic cognitive processing is the role of the nicotinic cholinergic system. The purpose of this research was to further characterize the role of the nicotinic system in learning and memory processing in a classical passive avoidance task by rats. The centrally acting nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine produced a dose-dependent impairment of performance in the passive avoidance task, however, the peripherally acting nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium was ineffective in this test. To elucidate the potential neurochemical mechanisms underlying mecamylamine's amnestic effect, we examined the ability of the drug to alter specific dynamic components of rat brain cholinergic systems in five brain regions. Mecamylamine produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the synthesis of [3H]ACh from pulse-injected [3H]choline in all regions examined, but was without effect on endogenous, steady-state levels of ACh. As with the behavioral study, administration of hexamethonium was without effect on [3H]ACh synthesis. Calculation of the turnover rates of ACh allowed a correlation between the inhibition of the behavioral task and the inhibition of central cholinergic function. The high degree of correlation obtained (as well as earlier studies in nonhuman primates) underlined the possibility that presynaptically located nicotinic receptors on brain cholinergic neurons are tonically active and mediate a positive feedback mechanism for controlling cholinergic neuronal activity. These receptors may be the neurochemical substrate which underlie the behavioral changes after administration of nicotinic agonists and antagonists. 
Cervical bruits: clinical correlates of stenosis. To analyze the relationship among characteristics of buits, degree of underlying stenosis, and neurologic symptom complexes, the authors studied 157 patients with bruits undergoing digital subtraction angiography. Symptom status assignment (definite lateralizing, possible lateralizing, vertebrobasilar, diffuse, and asymptomatic) and cervical auscultation for location, duration, and other bruit characteristics were performed independently. Bruit occurrence was associated with stenosis of greater than or equal to 50% of the underlying vessel with the association being no stronger at higher levels of stenosis (greater than or equal to 80%). No relationship existed between the side of bruit and side of symptoms in those with lateralized symptoms. The authors found more severe degrees of carotid stenosis in two symptomatic groups (vertebrobasilar insufficiency [VBI] and definite lateralized) compared with asymptomatic patients. Those with VBI had more high-grade stenosis, whereas those with lateralized symptoms had more occlusions, which tended to be ipsilateral to the symptoms. 
Presynaptic regulation of cardiac sympathetic function in hypoxic guinea pigs. In the normal heart, presynaptic cholinergic muscarinic and alpha 2-adrenergic mechanisms modify the fractional rate constant for norepinephrine (NE) synthesis (kNE), an index of sympathetic neural function. To evaluate presynaptic regulation of kNE, conscious guinea pigs subjected to normoxia and then hypoxia (n = 7-8 in each group) were pretreated with 1) vehicle; 2) a cholinergic muscarinic antagonist, methyl atropine; 3) an alpha 2-antagonist, yohimbine; or 4) a combination of the two. An increase of kNE was determined from incorporation of radiolabeled tyrosine into NE in a control period (arterial PO2 130 +/- 1.7 Torr, PCO2 36 +/- 0.5 Torr) and during a hypoxic state (PO2 49.6 +/- 1.0 Torr, PCO2 36 +/- 0.5 Torr). Hypoxia activated kNE in the atrioventricular node and right ventricular moderator band in vehicle-treated animals (P less than 0.05). Sympathetic activation was more general, however, because alpha 2-presynaptic influence acted to limit kNE in all tissues tested (P less than 0.05) except muscle, spleen, and posterior left ventricle. Cholinergic muscarinic presynaptic restraint on kNE was detected during hypoxia only in the left atrial appendage and lung (P less than 0.05). These data indicate that hypoxia increases kNE in the heart, but restraint by cholinergic muscarinic and alpha 2-adrenergic presynaptic mechanisms limits increases in neurotransmitter synthesis and noradrenergic activation regionally. 
Lingual thyroid: the diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging. Lingual thyroid is an uncommon developmental aberration of embryogenesis. It may present as a mid-line, non-tender, painless, reddish appearing swelling in the throat. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a relatively new diagnostic method for this condition. Two cases of lingual thyroid are reviewed with their MRI's and surgical results. 
Local application of somatostatin in the rat ventrolateral brain medulla induces apnea. Local injections of the tetradecapeptide somatostatin (SOM) into the brain stem region were performed in anesthetized and decerebrate rats. SOM administration (0.6-1.8 nmol) into the nucleus paragigantocellularis and the nucleus reticularis lateralis of the ventrolateral medulla oblongata induced ventilatory depression and apnea. The occurrence of apnea was dose dependent and attributed to the anesthetic depth, and it was seen within 60-240 s after injection. In anesthetized rats the apnea was seen as a termination or a continuous decrease in tidal volume while respiratory frequency remained unaltered. SOM-induced apnea was caused by depression of central inspiratory drive. SOM injections into the dorsal medulla were ineffective in eliciting apnea, although a ventilatory depression but no apnea was induced in the awake unanesthetized state. In addition to its effect on basal ventilation, SOM administration in the ventrolateral medulla resulted in a blunted ventilatory response to hypoxic and hypercapnic stimuli in anesthetized rats. We conclude that SOM has potent inhibitory effects on respiration that are specifically located in the nucleus paragigantocellularis and the nucleus reticularis lateralis. 
Wrist movements in able-bodied and brain injured individuals. The purpose of this study was to compare movement velocity characteristics during targeted wrist movements between able-bodied individuals and a sample of individuals with spasticity secondary to closed head injury. Two amplitudes (30 degrees and 60 degrees) of movement were performed at slow and fast velocities, with the forearm either passively supported or actively supported by elbow extension and shoulder flexion. Variables measured were the following: (1) average velocity of entire movement, (2) velocity for 10 degrees increments of a movement, and (3) ratio of average peak 10 degrees increment velocity to average velocity. In addition, qualitative examination of velocity profiles was performed. Slow movements were performed in a discontinuous manner by both groups; however, observable differences in peak/average velocity were noted between groups in the unsupported position during slow and fast movements. Able-bodied individuals performed seven of eight fast movements with greater velocity (p less than .05) than brain injured individuals, and the fast movements of the able-bodied subjects were continuous. 
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas: current management of resectable and locally advanced disease. Surgical resection alone for patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas has rarely resulted in cure, and long-term survival is uncommon. The magnitude of the operation has historically prevented many patients from receiving multimodality therapy with systemic chemotherapy or radiation (external beam and intraoperative). Improved rates of operative morbidity and mortality, technical advances in intraoperative radiotherapy, and encouraging results from studies combining radiation and chemotherapy have renewed interest in innovative treatments for this disease. We review the rationale for the current management of patients with resectable and locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas and the current trial at The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. 
Hypertonic nasogastric tube feedings: do they cause diarrhea? Hypertonic NG tube feeding in hospitalized patients, whether on the hospital ward or in the ICU, is considered a common etiology of diarrhea. To evaluate the accuracy of this assumption, five normal volunteers, ten hospitalized postoperative patients with head and neck cancer, and 24 ICU patients were given hypertonic (690 mosm), low residue, lactose-free tube feedings starting at 30 kcal/kg.day. There was no prior history of diarrhea in any of the groups studied. There was a significant difference in albumin levels between the three groups, with an average albumin of 2.8 g/dl in the ICU patient group; different from 4.5 g/dl present in both the normal volunteer and non-ICU hospitalized patient groups (general linear models procedure from SAS, p less than .05) (Duncan test). Diarrhea was not present in the normal volunteers or non-ICU patients during the feedings, but did occur in 3/24 ICU patients. This difference was not significant. The three patients with diarrhea had an average albumin level of 3.0 g/dl, while the other ICU patients had an average albumin of 2.7 g/dl. We conclude that hypertonic NG tube feedings do not cause diarrhea in normal volunteers or postoperative head and neck cancer patients. However, in a small statistically insignificant percent of mechanically ventilated ICU patients, this regimen may cause diarrhea although no risk factors can be identified. 
Acute necrotizing pancreatitis: management by planned, staged pancreatic necrosectomy/debridement and delayed primary wound closure over drains. We reviewed our recent experience with management of 23 consecutive patients with acute necrotizing pancreatitis. All patients had documented necrotizing pancreatitis with parenchymal or peripancreatic necrosis. Our method of treatment has evolved from our previous approach of controlled open lesser sac drainage (marsupialization) to staged necrosectomy/debridement with delayed primary closure over drains. With this latter approach, hospital mortality was 4 of 23 patients (17 per cent), but significant morbidity still occurred in 12 of 23 patients (52 per cent). However, recurrent intra-abdominal abscess before discharge occurred in only one patient. We believe that this operative approach toward the severely ill patient with acute necrotizing pancreatitis who requires operative intervention will minimize the occurrence of intra-abdominal sepsis. 
Primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the iris. We describe herein a 4-year-old girl with primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the right iris. Malignant cells were aspirated from the aqueous humor, and the eye was enucleated 7 months after the tumor appeared. To our knowledge, only two cases of primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the iris have been reported. Both of these patients received radiation therapy prior to enucleation. 
Dietary effects on breast-cancer risk in Singapore. It is suspected that diet influences the risk of getting breast cancer. A study of diet and breast cancer was done among 200 Singapore Chinese women with histologically confirmed disease and 420 matched controls. A quantitative food-frequency questionnaire was used to assess intakes of selected nutrients and foods 1 year before interview. Daily intakes were computed and risk analysed after adjustment for concomitant risk factors. In premenopausal women, high intakes of animal proteins and red meat were associated with increased risk. Decreased risk was associated with high intakes of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), beta-carotene, soya proteins, total soya products, a high PUFA to saturated fatty acid ratio, and a high proportion of soya to total protein. In multiple analysis, the variables which were significant after adjustment for each other were red meat (p less than 0.001) as a predisposing factor, and PUFA (p = 0.02), beta-carotene (p = 0.003), and soya protein (p = 0.02) as protective factors. The analysis of dietary variables in postmenopausal women gave uniformly non-significant results. Our finding that soya products may protect against breast cancer in younger women is of interest since these foods are rich in phyto-oestrogens. 
Comparison of indium-111 antimyosin antibody and technetium-99m pyrophosphate localization in reperfused and nonreperfused myocardial infarction Recent imaging studies suggest that technetium-99m (Tc-99m) pyrophosphate yields a considerably larger estimate of myocardial infarct size than does indium-111 (In-111) monoclonal antimyosin antibody. To determine whether Tc-99m pyrophosphate may be taken up by reversibly injured myocytes, particularly in the setting of coronary reperfusion, the tissue localization of Tc-99m pyrophosphate and antimyosin antibody was compared in 11 dogs 24 to 68 h after anterior descending coronary artery occlusion (4 dogs with permanent occlusion, 7 with reperfusion). Technetium-99m pyrophosphate and In-111 antimyosin antibody content was determined in serial 2 to 3 mm wide endocardial and epicardial samples taken through the infarct zone in multiple short-axis left ventricular slices. The number of samples with increased In-111 antimyosin antibody (defined as greater than or equal to mean + 2 SD of normal) was not significantly different from that with increased Tc-99m pyrophosphate. This was true in both reperfused and nonreperfused infarcts. However, the intensity of uptake of Tc-99m pyrophosphate exceeded that of In-111 antimyosin antibody, particularly in the border zones of reperfused infarcts, and the area with moderate to marked increase in tracer uptake (greater than or equal to 2 times normal) was significantly larger with Tc-99m pyrophosphate than In-111 antimyosin antibody (p less than 0.001). A specific zone of abnormal Tc-99m pyrophosphate with normal In-111 antimyosin antibody content could not be identified. Histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis was found in virtually every sample with increased In-111 antimyosin antibody, Tc-99m pyrophosphate, or both. 
Comparison of intravenous urokinase plus heparin versus heparin alone in acute myocardial infarction. Urochinasi per via Sistemica nell'Infarto Miocardico (USIM) Collaborative Group. In a randomized trial of the effects on in-hospital mortality of intravenous urokinase plus heparin versus heparin alone, 2,531 patients with acute myocardial infarction in 89 coronary care units were enrolled for greater than 30 months. Patients admitted within 4 hours of the onset of pain were randomized to receive either intravenous urokinase (a bolus dose of 1 million U repeated after 60 minutes) plus heparin (a bolus dose of 10,000 U followed by 1,000 IU/hour for 48 hours) or heparin alone (infused at the same rate). Complete data were obtained in 2,201 patients (1,128 taking urokinase and 1,073 taking heparin). At 16 days, overall hospital mortality was 8% in the urokinase and 8.3% in the heparin group (p = not significant). Among patients with anterior infarction, mortality was 10.3% in the urokinase and 13.9% in the heparin group (p = 0.09; relative risk = 0.73). The incidence of major bleeding (urokinase 0.44%, heparin 0.37%) as well as the overall incidence of stroke (urokinase 0.35%, heparin 0.20%) was similar in the 2 groups. The rates of major in-hospital cardiac complications (reinfarction, postinfarction angina) were also similar. 
Effects of antiplatelet agents alone or in combinations on platelet aggregation and on liver metastases from a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma in the nude mouse. There is ample evidence to suggest that hematogenous metastasis may be related to the ability of tumor cells to promote aggregation of host platelets. Arachidonic acid metabolism in platelets and vessel walls may also contribute to the metastatic process. Several preliminary trials of platelet inhibitory agents have been performed. Ketoconazole (inhibitor of lipoxygenase and thromboxane synthetase), verapamil (calcium antagonist), forskolin (stimulator of platelet adenylate cyclase), and indomethacin (inhibitor of cyclooxygenase) were examined, alone and in combination, to investigate their effects on platelet aggregation and on hepatic metastases from human pancreatic tumor cells (RWP-2) in nude mice. The tumor cells were injected intrasplenically, and the animals were divided into control, single-drug and combination treatment groups. The agents were administered intraperitoneally 1 hr before and every 24 hr after the tumor cell injections for 6 days. Statistically significant differences were observed between the control and single-treatment groups on the reduction of liver tumor nodules (range P less than 0.001-0.032) and in the liver surface areas occupied by tumor (range P less than 0.001-0.013). Furthermore, when these agents were combined, similar reductions in liver tumor nodules were noted (range P less than 0.001-0.008), while even greater inhibitory effects were seen in the liver surface areas occupied by tumor (P less than 0.001) compared with the single-treatment groups. Also, the combination studies strongly inhibited RWP-2-induced platelet aggregation in human platelet-rich plasma. 
Natural history of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis associated with aortic disease. The natural history of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis has not been well defined, particularly when discovered in conjunction with aortic disease requiring correction. To better define the natural history of such lesions, 194 sequential aortograms in 48 patients were studied to define predictive criteria for stenoses at risk for progression. Sixty-six unsuspected atherosclerotic renal arterial stenoses were identified on the initial aortograms. Disease progressed in 42 arteries (53%), 14 bilateral and 28 unilateral. Seven arteries developed occlusion. All had stenoses averaging 80% (range 61% to 94%) noted on the most recent aortogram preceding occlusion. Risk factors including smoking, diabetes mellitus, elevated serum lipids, coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, or change in blood pressure or creatinine, did not correlate with degree or rate of progression of the renal artery stenosis. A difference in kidney size, although varying inversely with degree of stenosis, was not a statistically significant marker of disease progression. This analysis suggests that identification of renal arterial stenoses that will progress is best determined by sequential aortography. Highly stenotic vessels are more prone to occlude than those less stenotic. Consequently, individuals with preocclusive lesions should benefit from prophylactic renal revascularization during aortic reconstruction. 
Long-term results of keratoepithelioplasty in Mooren's ulcer. A consecutive series of 20 eyes with Mooren's ulcer was treated by a new surgical approach: keratoepithelioplasty alone or in combination with corneoscleral lamellar graft. Eighteen (90%) eyes showed complete remission promptly after surgery; the other two also healed with the administration of additional systemic and topical steroids. During the follow-up periods (mean, 3.1 years), minor recurrence was found in 5 (25%) eyes for the first 6 months, in none (0%) for the second 6 months, in 2 (12%) for the third 6 months, and none thereafter. All seven eyes with recurrence were cured by additional steroid treatment, alone or with conjunctival excision and/or keratoepithelioplasty. In the 18 (90%) eyes, the lenticules, constantly observed, remained silent on the scleras, which were free from conjunctival invasion. These results strongly support the authors' theory that keratoepithelioplasty using donor corneal lenticules can heal Mooren's ulcer via blockage of infiltrated conjunctival invasion. 
Surgical manipulation of primate cerebral arteries in established vasospasm. It is generally believed that surgery in the face of angiographic vasospasm is dangerous due to an increased incidence of postoperative cerebral ischemia. One theory is that arterial narrowing is exacerbated by surgical manipulation of vasospastic vessels during aneurysm dissection and clipping. This theory was tested in a primate model of cerebral vasospasm and the results reported. Six monkeys underwent baseline cerebral angiography, followed by induction of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on both sides of the circle of Willis. An equal amount of fresh autologous blood clot was placed around each internal carotid, anterior cerebral, and middle cerebral artery. Six days later, angiography was repeated and the right craniectomy was reopened for clot evacuation and surgical manipulation of the right cerebral arteries, including placement of a temporary aneurysm clip on the right middle cerebral artery. The left cerebral arteries were not exposed or manipulated, and served as controls. Twenty-four hours later angiography was repeated, then the animals were killed. Equal and significant vasospasm (greater than 40% reduction in vessel caliber compared to baseline, p less than 0.05) was seen in the middle cerebral arteries on both sides of the circle of Willis in all animals 6 and 7 days after SAH. There was no significant change in the severity of vasospasm on Day 7 compared with Day 6 in the right cerebral arteries. Increased risk of postoperative cerebral ischemia for surgery in the peak vasospasm period may be due to mechanisms other than increased arterial narrowing precipitated by surgical manipulation. 
Recurrent spontaneous intrahepatic hemorrhage from peliosis hepatis. Peliosis hepatis is a rare and highly lethal liver lesion in which numerous blood-filled cavities or cystic spaces are dispersed throughout the hepatic parenchyma. The cause is unknown, although the condition is associated with several disease states and medications. Patients may present with hemorrhage, liver failure, the hepatorenal syndrome, cholestasis, or portal hypertension. We treated a patient who survived two separate hemorrhages from peliosis hepatis. The surgical intervention used, hepatic dearterialization, has allowed this patient to remain asymptomatic for 5 years. 
The influence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection on the development of the hepatitis B virus carrier state. To assess the influence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection on the natural history of acute hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, a study was undertaken of the clinical records of all 77 homosexual men with documented seroconversion to anti-hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc) between visits to either of two Sydney clinics between 1985 and 1989. HIV-1-seropositive subjects developed chronic HBV infection (positive for hepatitis B surface antigen [HBsAg] greater than 6 months) more frequently (7/31, 23%) than HIV-1-seronegative ones (2/46, 4%; P = .026). HIV-positive subjects who cleared HBsAg had significantly more circulating CD4+ lymphocytes (mean, 547 x 10(6)/l) than those who did not (352 x 10(6)/l, P less than .005). A subset of subjects who acquired both viruses between visits had an even higher rate of chronic infection (4/10, 40%). Icteric illnesses were reported more frequently by HIV-1-seronegative (11/46, 24%) than -seropositive subjects (3/31, 10%; P = .20). These findings indicate a potential for an increased reservoir of HBV infection in the community as a consequence of the HIV-1 epidemic. 
Detection of intracoronary fibrin degradation after coronary balloon angioplasty. Intracoronary thrombus formation may be involved in the pathogenesis of arterial closure after coronary angioplasty and may contribute to restenosis. It is hypothesized that, unlike markers of platelet activation and fibrin formation, D-dimer, a product of plasmin-mediated proteolysis of cross-linked fibrin, is not subject to significant catheter-induced artifact and could be used to study intracoronary fibrin degradation during angioplasty. No significant difference in D-dimer levels was noted in serial plasma samples obtained from an 8Fr arterial sheath and the wire lumen of an angioplasty balloon catheter, indicating that sampling through the catheter lumen did not induce artifactual D-dimer elevations. Translesion (proximal and distal to the lesion) coronary blood samples were collected in 31 patients undergoing elective coronary angioplasty pretreated with aspirin, dipyridamole and heparin. In 20 of those in whom translesion coronary samples for plasma D-dimer levels (mean +/- standard deviation) were collected before balloon dilation, there was no evidence of ongoing intracoronary fibrinolysis (proximal D-dimer levels, 289 +/- 145 ng/ml; distal, 299 +/- 156 ng/ml; difference not significant). After coronary angioplasty (n = 31), there was a relatively small, but significant (p less than 0.001) increase (45 +/- 71 ng/ml) in translesional D-dimer levels (proximal, 396 +/- 223 ng/ml; distal, 441 +/- 257 ng/ml). The results from this study suggest (1) D-dimer levels are not subject to significant catheter-induced artifact and may be useful for assessment of intracoronary fibrin metabolism, and (2) intracoronary degradation of fibrin can be detected after (but not before) routine coronary angioplasty despite pretreatment with antithrombotic therapy, presumably in response to balloon-induced arterial injury and fibrin formation. 
Chronic urticaria and cancer: an epidemiological study of 1155 patients. To evaluate the possible association of malignant disease with chronic urticaria 1155 consecutive cases with chronic urticaria were reviewed. The Swedish Cancer Registry, Stockholm, was searched for records reporting malignancies in the study population (1958-84), and the expected number of malignancies was calculated on the basis of age- and sex-standardized incidence data. A malignancy was diagnosed in 36 patients with urticaria and the expected number of malignancies was 41. In 23 patients the malignancy appeared during the same year as the onset of urticaria or later. The expected number was 25.6. We conclude that chronic urticaria is not statistically associated with malignancy in general. 
The effects of dorsal column stimulation on measures of clinical and experimental pain in man. Despite the extensive use of dorsal column stimulation (DCS) for the control of various chronic pain conditions, most clinicians report only modest success rates. Surprisingly, there has been little placebo-controlled investigation of its efficacy for altering either clinical or experimental pain perception. The current study compared the effects of DCS to placebo stimulation on clinical pain perception, perceived intensity of painful heat stimuli and visual stimuli, and the discrimination of small changes in noxious heat intensity and in light intensity. We found that DCS, but not placebo stimulation, significantly altered ratings of spontaneous clinical pain as well as those of painful cutaneous heat. In addition, heat discrimination thresholds were increased by DCS, but not placebo. On the other hand, DCS had no effect on ratings of visual stimulus intensity nor on visual discrimination, suggesting that the DCS modulation of pain perception was not due to a general change in attention. These data indicate that DCS significantly alters pain transmission in humans. Nevertheless, the relatively small reduction in clinical pain (less than 30%) must be weighed against the invasive nature of electrode implantation. 
Molecular basis of sequestration in severe and uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria: differential adhesion of infected erythrocytes to CD36 and ICAM-1. The CD36 and ICAM-1 glycoproteins on vascular endothelial cells have been implicated as cytoadherence receptors for Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes (IRBC). Adhesion of IRBC from Thai patients with uncomplicated and severe falciparum malaria to purified CD36 or ICAM-1 and to C32 melanoma cells was compared. All malaria isolates bound to solid phase-adsorbed CD36 and to fluid-phase 125I-labeled CD36. IRBC adhesion to purified ICAM-1 varied widely, and no correlation with clinical severity of disease was observed. The cytoadherent phenotype of IRBC was modulated by selective panning on plates coated with purified CD36 or ICAM-1. IRBC selected by panning on CD36+, ICAM-1+ melanoma cells bound to cells that express surface CD36 but not to CD36-deficient cells, indicating that CD36 exerts a strong selective pressure on the IRBC cytoadherent phenotype. IRBC adhesion to CD36 and ICAM-1 suggests that P. falciparum parasites may use these receptors in vivo to promote parasite survival and immune evasion. 
Cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum. A report of three cases. Three cases of peritoneal cystic mesothelioma are reported. All patients were women who had undergone previous abdominal surgery for unrelated conditions. Tumors consisted of solitary and multiple cystic masses involving the abdominal and pelvic peritoneum. The cysts focally infiltrated the muscularis externa of the small intestine in case 1, the outer muscular layer of the uterus in case 2, and the omental tissue in case 3. These findings give morphologic support to the borderline clinical behavior of this tumor that often recurs and support the hypothesis that previous surgery may play a role in its pathogenesis. 
Chronic diarrhea. A practical approach for the pediatrician. Despite the high prevalence of chronic diarrhea there is no universal approach to its diagnosis and treatment. This article summarizes the pathophysiologic processes that result in chronic diarrhea and presents a diagnostic and therapeutic approach to this often distressing problem. 
Cardiopulmonary arrest following an infusion of calcium 2-amino ethanol phosphate. The intravenous infusion of calcium 2-amino ethanol phosphate was coincidental with cardiopulmonary arrest in a 53-year-old woman with a history of multiple sclerosis. Resuscitation was followed by massive hemolysis, renal failure, adult respiratory distress syndrome, shock liver, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. This agent, in use by at least one practitioner in West Germany for the treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune disorders is not FDA approved for use in the United States, nor is clinical investigation underway. It is currently thought to be in use by about 200 practitioners throughout this country as treatment for multiple sclerosis. It is apparently obtained in West Germany and brought illegally into the United States. This is the first known report of an adverse drug reaction associated with the use of this product. 
Determination of erythrocyte-bound acetylcholinesterase activity for monitoring pyridostigmine therapy in myasthenia gravis. Monitoring of pyridostigmine therapy in patients with myasthenia gravis is not routinely performed, since the daily pyridostigmine doses are adjusted to the patient's actual clinical status rather than to pyridostigmine plasma concentrations (PPC). Moreover, PPC determination is time-consuming and needs much technical equipment. Since pyridostigmine reversible blocks acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at the neuromuscular junction, we studied the correlation between the enzyme's blood activity (erythrocyte-bound AChE) and PPC, on the one hand, and between blood AChE activity and the clinical status of the individual patient, on the other. In five previously untreated patients with myasthenia gravis blood AChE activity decreased in accordance with the actual PPC after a single oral dose of 60 mg pyridostigmine (group A). Amelioration of the clinical status corresponded to the decrease of AChE activity in the same way. In another five patients, who were on stable pyridostigmine medication for at least 1 week, AChE activity and PPC were constant during the day (group B). Since it is easier to perform than PPC, our results suggest that the determination of AChE activity may be superior to measuring PPC for monitoring cholinesterase inhibitor therapy in selected cases. 
Striatopallidonigral degeneration in Pick's disease: a clinicopathological study of 41 cases. The frequency and degree of stiatopallidonigral (SPN) degeneration were examined in 41 autopsy cases of Pick's disease. Based on the degree of SPN degeneration, these cases were arranged into four groups: 1) group I (severely degenerate; 19.5%), 2) group II (moderately degenerate; 22.0%), 3) group III (mildly degenerate; 36.5%), and 4) group IV (non-degenerate; 22.0%). 17 of the 41 cases had a definite (moderate to severe) SPN degeneration. The striatum, especially the caudate nucleus, was most frequently and most severely affected, while the internal segment of the globus pallidus was least frequently and least severely affected. In general, the oral portions of the SPN nuclei were more severely involved. In addition, in the putamen and globus pallidus the dorsomedial portions adjacent to the internal capsule were apt to be affected more markedly than the other portions. In the substantia nigra the degeneration tended to be more predominant in the pars reticulata than in the pars compacta, although both were usually involved. In addition, the medial to central portions of the substantia nigra were more vulnerable. In comparing the severely and moderately degenerate groups (groups I and II) with the mildly and non degenerate groups (groups III and IV), the former had more female cases, longer duration of illness, and more third-stage cases. In addition, the former contained more cases with lower brain weight and (predominant) frontal atrophy type, and more atypical cases without Pick bodies, or with symmetrical pyramidal tract degeneration or with combined traumatic lesions. It is notable that in all cases with definite SPN degeneration no extrapyramidal involuntary movements had been detected. 
Seasonality of disease in Kuwait. To compare the seasonal variation in total mortality and deaths from cardiovascular, respiratory, and malignant disease, data were collected from North-East Scotland (Grampian region) and Kuwait. Seasonal differences were similar, in both timing and degree, for total mortality and deaths from circulatory disease, but were greater in Kuwait for respiratory disease. Peak mortality was during winter in both areas: in Grampian, when the climate is most uncomfortable, and in Kuwait, when the climate is at its most comfortable. Socioeconomic changes in Kuwait have been accompanied by a rapid fall in the degree of seasonality (deseasonality) for both total and infant mortality. These findings suggest that mortality peaks in winter, not because of a seasonally low temperature, but because of a seasonal fall in mean temperature irrespective of the annual mean temperature. 
Literary neurologic syndromes. Alice in Wonderland. Many neurologic syndromes are named for literary characters. For example, the "Alice in Wonderland" syndrome of altered body perceptions, usually caused by migrainous ischemia, is so called because of the resemblance of its symptoms to the fluctuations in size and shape that plague the main character in Lewis Carroll's 1865 novel Alice in Wonderland. The medical symptoms of distorted body images match the literary description so precisely that illustrations from the original book depict them very accurately. Because Lewis Carroll suffered from classic migraine headaches, scholars have speculated that he may have experienced this syndrome himself. 
Systemic adjuvant therapy in women with resected node-negative breast cancer. Currently, the role of adjuvant systemic therapy in women with node-negative breast cancer is being determined. Several studies of adjuvant hormonal therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy have demonstrated a moderate reduction in the risk of recurrence in the treated patients. With relatively limited follow-up, however, overall survival has not improved with use of adjuvant therapy. The use of prognostic factors to select those patients at highest risk for relapse is an active area of oncologic research. The decision to recommend adjuvant therapy necessitates assessment of the probability of recurrence, the expected reduction of risk with adjuvant therapy, the toxic effects of therapy, and the influence of treatment on the patient's overall quality of life. 
False-negative dipyridamole-thallium-201 myocardial imaging after caffeine infusion. The vasodilator effect of intravenously administered dipyridamole may be caused by an increase in endogenous plasma adenosine levels. We evaluated the effect of caffeine, an adenosine receptor antagonist, on the diagnostic results of dipyridamole-201Tl myocardial imaging in eight patients with coronary artery disease. Caffeine infusion significantly attenuated the dipyridamole-induced fall in blood pressure and the accompanied increase in heart rate. The infusion of dipyridamole alone resulted in chest pain and ST-segment depressions on the electrocardiogram in four patients, whereas none of these problems occurred when the tests were repeated after caffeine. In six of eight patients, caffeine was responsible for false-negative dipyridamole-201Tl tests. Semiquantitive scores of the dipyridamole-induced 201Tl perfusion defects were decreased by caffeine from 9.0 +/- 0.9 to 2.0 +/- 1.1 points (p less than 0.05). Computerized analysis revealed a caffeine-mediated reduction in the percent reversibility of the images from 46% +/- 16% to 6% +/- 10% (p less than 0.05). We conclude that the use of caffeinated products prior to dipyridamole-201Tl testing may be responsible for false-negative findings. 
Investigation of varicella-zoster virus infection by polymerase chain reaction in the immunocompetent host with acute varicella. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method developed to detect varicella zoster virus (VZV) in clinical samples is based on amplifying sequences of viral gene 31, the coding region for glycoprotein II. Its sensitivity was evaluated by amplification from plasmid VZV DNA containing VZV gene 31; 45 copies were detected in 1 microgram of human DNA. In testing within 24 h after the onset of varicella exanthem, 21 (75%) of 28 lesion samples were positive by VZV PCR, whereas VZV was isolated from only 21% by a standard tissue culture method. Only 1 (3.3%) of 30 samples of oropharyngeal secretions but peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 8 (67%) of 12 patients were positive. The sensitivity and specificity of the VZV PCR method indicates its usefulness for investigating the pathogenesis of VZV infection. Direct contact with cutaneous lesions rather than respiratory secretions may be the most important route of VZV transmission from healthy individuals with acute varicella. 
Carcinoma (malignant mixed mullerian [mesodermal] tumor) of the uterus and ovary. Correlation of clinical, pathologic, and immunohistochemical features in 29 cases. We examined the histologic, immunohistochemical, and clinical features of a series of 23 endometrial, five cervical, and one ovarian carcinosarcomas (malignant mixed mullerian [mesodermal] tumors) and nine associated distant peritoneal metastases. The primary tumors all showed epithelial differentiation (cytokeratin and/or epithelial membrane antigen expression) of the carcinomatous component, while sarcomatous areas showed epithelial differentiation in all but one case. The metastases showed uniform staining for cytokeratin (eight of eight cases) and epithelial membrane antigen (eight of eight cases), including the spindle cell component that was present in four of nine cases. Desmin significantly changed the interpretation of rhabdomyosarcoma differentiation by refuting putative rhabdomyoblasts in two cases and identifying rhabdomyoblasts in two other cases where they were unrecognized on hematoxylineosin staining. S100 protein was positive in all five cases with chondrosarcoma differentiation. Muscle-specific actin and vimentin were positive in the sarcomatous component of all cases and in the carcinomatous component of seven and 10 cases, respectively. After immunostaining, heterologous elements were present in 18 of 29 cases (11 cases of rhabdomyosarcoma, three cases of chondrosarcoma, three cases of mixed rhabdomyosarcoma and chondrosarcoma, and one case of liposarcoma). Only six of 27 patients with follow-up were disease free for 12 months or longer (associated with stage I or II disease, smaller size, no lymphatic invasion in the resection specimen, and no invasion of the outer two thirds of myometrium). Presence and type of heterologous elements, grade of sarcomatous or carcinomatous components, histologic type of carcinomatous component, gross appearance, presence of necrosis, or use of chemotherapy or radiotherapy did not affect outcome. Carcinosarcomas are clinically aggressive distinctive mixed epithelial-stromal neoplasms with histologic and immunohistochemical features that overlap with metaplastic carcinoma in many cases. 
Lack of association between neutropenia and the incidence of bacteremia associated with indwelling central venous catheters in febrile pediatric cancer patients. To assess the incidence of bacteremia in pediatric cancer patients with indwelling central venous catheters with fever, we reviewed the records of all 67 such patients sequentially admitted during a 10-month period at our institution. There were a total of 140 episodes of fever in these 67 patients. In 55 of the episodes (39%) patients were nonneutropenic (absolute neutrophil count, greater than 500/mm3); 85 episodes (61%) were associated with neutropenia. Twenty-four percent of all episodes of fever in nonneutropenic patients were related to bacteremia vs. 9.5% of episodes of fever in the presence of neutropenia (P less than 0.05). When clinical evidence of an exit site infection was absent, the incidence of bacteremia in the neutropenic and nonneutropenic groups was similar (11% in the neutropenic group; 10% in the nonneutropenic group). We conclude that bacteremia is frequently observed in febrile pediatric cancer patients with indwelling venous catheters who are not neutropenic, particularly if there is clinical evidence of an exit site infection. Thus empiric antibiotic therapy is warranted in all pediatric oncology patients with indwelling catheters who develop fever. 
High recovery of Haemophilus influenzae and group A streptococci in recurrent tonsillar infection or hypertrophy as compared with normal tonsils. One hundred and twenty-six patients who underwent tonsillectomy because of recurrent acute tonsillitis, tonsillar hypertrophy or sleep apnoea were evaluated by tonsillar core culturing. The sleep apnoea patients served as controls, since none of them had tonsillar hypertrophy at ENT examination or any history of recurrent acute tonsillitis, and thus their tonsillar core flora could be regarded as normal. The isolation rate of H. influenzae was much lower among sleep apnoea controls (2.7 per cent) than among either the patients with recurrent acute tonsillitis (20.3 per cent) or those with tonsillar hypertrophy (36.7 per cent) (p less than 0.05), as was that of group A streptococci, 5.4 per cent versus 16.9 and 20 per cent, respectively (though the latter differences were not statistically significant). The isolation frequencies of B. catarrhalis, pneumococci, group C and G streptococci did not differ between the three groups. The high tonsillar core recovery rates of H. influenzae and group A streptococci both in patients with recurrent acute tonsillitis and in those with tonsillar hypertrophy, as compared with normal controls, suggests the possible involvement of these bacteria in both conditions. 
Autoerotic death. A definition. A definition of autoerotic death is suggested that restricts the use of this term to accidental deaths that occur during individual, usually solitary, sexual activity in which a device, apparatus, or prop that was employed to enhance the sexual stimulation of the deceased in some way caused unintended death. The case of the autoerotic asphyxial death of a 48-year-old man is reported in order to demonstrate the application of this definition. 
A comparison of sucralfate with placebo in the treatment of esophageal ulcers following therapeutic endoscopic sclerotherapy of esophageal varices--a prospective controlled randomized trial. In 1984 Roark published the first report of a sucralfate treatment of esophageal ulcers after sclerotherapy. Because this was an uncontrolled trial we planned a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study with 60 patients. After therapeutic paravariceal injection-sclerotherapy of esophageal varices, patients were randomly treated with sucralfate suspension or placebo. Time of treatment was limited to a maximum of 3 weeks and the dosage of sucralfate was 1 g q.i.d. (Ulcogant-Suspension). Healing was assessed by endoscopy at weekly intervals. Fifty-three patients (25 sucralfate, 28 placebo) were evaluable according to the protocol. No patient left the study because of side effects. At the start of the trial, the patients in the sucralfate group showed a larger ulcer area than the placebo group. There was a tendency to faster healing in the sucralfate group, especially in patients with deeper ulcerations. However, there was no significant difference in global healing between both treatment groups after 3 weeks. Sucralfate suspension may be of value in accelerating the healing process in esophageal ulcers after sclerotherapy, especially in patients with deep ulcers. These results should be confirmed in further trials, in which patients should be stratified with respect to their ulcer volume and severity of liver disease. 
Cholestasis in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome: comparison between ultrasonographic and cholangiographic findings. Cholestasis in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome was systematically investigated by ultrasonography and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. The two procedures were found to be complementary, and showed similar results in 56.2% of the cases. Ultrasonography was superior in detecting common bile duct wall thickening, whereas endoscopic retrograde cholangiography was superior in demonstrating intrahepatic narrowing of the biliary tract. 
Inaccuracy of pulse oximetry in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation. The accuracy of pulse oximetry was studied in a group of patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation. Measurements of arterial oxygen saturation from a finger and an ear probe were compared with those from a radial arterial blood sample analysed in vitro. Lower values were obtained using the pulse oximeter; the difference ranged from +2% to -11%. The discrepancies between pulse oximeter and laboratory oximeter readings were greater in this group of patients than in a control group who did not have tricuspid regurgitation. There was, however, no correlation between the magnitude of this discrepancy and either the peak central venous pressure or the venous pulse pressure. 
Subpopulations of B cells in germinal centers. III. HJ6, a monoclonal antibody, binds globoside and a subpopulation of germinal center B cells. To identify surface Ag uniquely expressed on human germinal center B cells, we produced a mouse mAb, HJ6. When tonsillar lymphocytes were examined, HJ6 did not label T cells and labeled only about half of PNA+ B cells that were HK23-. HJ6 did not label mononuclear cells from peripheral blood, splenocytes, and any of 29 cell lines including 23 B cell lines. This binding pattern of HJ6 was very similar to that of a mAb named 5B5. It was shown previously that 5B5 bound a glycolipid named CTH (CD77) and its Ag was expressed on HK23- PNA+ tonsillar lymphocytes and Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines. Despite the similarity, HJ6 differed from 5B5: HJ6 did not stain Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines and stained PNA+ tonsillar lymphocytes in the presence of a large concentration of galactose. When its binding to isolated glycolipids was studied, HJ6 was found to bind globoside and Forssman Ag and not to other glycolipids including CTH. When its binding to neutral glycolipids extracted from tonsillar lymphocytes was studied, HJ6 bound only globoside; Forssman Ag was not detected in tonsillar lymphocytes. Taken together, we conclude that globoside is a B cell Ag expressed on a subpopulation of germinal center B cells. 
Techniques for application of tissue adhesive for corneal perforations. We describe a modified technique of using cyanoacrylate adhesive to seal corneal perforations. Easily performed at the slit lamp, its advantages over previously described methods include a smooth, contoured collagen surface overlying the adhesive, which is easily wet by the tear film. Even greater comfort and protection are provided by the addition of a hydrophilic bandage lens or collagen shield. 
Inhibitory effects of procainamide on sympathetic nerve activity in humans. In experimental animals, procainamide causes hypotension and reductions in efferent vasoconstrictor sympathetic outflow that may result from ganglionic blockade or central nervous system sympathetic inhibition. To test the hypothesis that procainamide decreases sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) in humans, we recorded postganglionic SNA in seven normal subjects in the baseline state and during infusions of procainamide HCl at 50 mg/min (loading) and 8 mg/min (maintenance). At the end of the loading infusion, mean arterial pressure (MAP) had decreased from 88.5 +/- 2.4 (mean +/- SEM) to 81.5 +/- 3.2 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), central venous pressure from 6.7 +/- 0.7 to 5.4 +/- 0.9 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), forearm vascular resistance (FVR) from 28 +/- 4.8 to 22.3 +/- 5.1 resistance units (p less than 0.05), and SNA from 259 +/- 47 to 94 +/- 26 units/min (p less than 0.05). These changes persisted during the maintenance infusion. Increased levels of SNA, FVR, and MAP provoked by the cold pressor test were reduced significantly by intravenous procainamide. In eight other subjects, intravenous procainamide HCl (15 mg/kg at 50 mg/min) caused dose-dependent inhibition of SNA that reversed as blood concentrations fell during drug washout. To determine if procainamide causes direct vasodilation, in nine subjects, graded infusions were delivered into the brachial artery at doses that produced no systemic effect. Ipsilateral FVR tended to increase during local intra-arterial infusion of procainamide. These data show that intravenous procainamide causes hypotension, vasodilation, and sympathetic withdrawal. Vasodilation does not result from a direct vasorelaxant effect of the drug. 
Sepsis after coronary bypass grafting: evidence for loss of the gut mucosal barrier. Postoperative infections may originate from a patient's gastrointestinal tract. We studied infections after coronary artery revascularization. Three hundred twenty-nine patients underwent coronary artery revascularization from January 1987 to March 1990. Eight of the 329 (2.4%) died; none of the deaths were infection related. Fifty-five culture-proven infections were identified in 22 of 321 survivors (6.8%); 9 infections (16%) were gram-positive, 5 (9%) were fungal, and 41 (75%) were gram-negative. Site of infections were respiratory tract, 58%; urinary tract, 18%; blood, 13%; and mediastinum, 11%. Ninety-six percent of respiratory tract and all urinary tract infections were gram-negative or fungal. There was no significant difference between infected and noninfected groups in sex, age, smoking history, preoperative hematocrit or leukocyte count, serum albumin level, or time on extracorporeal bypass. The infected group required intubation and nasogastric suction for a significantly longer time than the noninfected group (p less than 0.001). Time to enteral alimentation was significantly longer in the infected group (p less than 0.02). We were unable to correlate the number of infections with the lengths of intubation, nasogastric suction, or time to enteral alimentation. This study supports the concept of postoperative infections arising from bacterial translocation across the patient's gastrointestinal tract. The most significant risk factor is the length of the gastrointestinal tract disuse. 
Percutaneous transjugular portosystemic shunt. OBJECTIVE.--To determine the effectiveness of the Palmaz balloon expandable stent for the creation of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt. The device is designed to achieve portal decompression in patients with variceal hemorrhage secondary to portal hypertension. DESIGN.--Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunting was performed in eight patients during a 9-month period. Mean follow-up was 5 months. PATIENTS.--All patients had cirrhosis with portal hypertension and varices. Bleeding occurred in seven patients from esophageal varices and in one patient from hemorrhoids. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Shunt patency and recurrent variceal hemorrhage. RESULTS.--Shunts created from a transjugular approach between a hepatic and a portal vein (diameters of 8 to 12 mm) lowered the average portosystemic pressure gradient from 36 to 11 mm Hg. Mean postoperative hospital stay was 7.7 days. Complete variceal decompression after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement was identified endoscopically in all eight patients. The patient treated for hemorrhoids rebled and was treated successfully by transfemoral balloon expansion of the shunt diameter from 8 to 12 mm. All shunts were patent at 1 to 9 months (mean, 5 months) of follow-up. CONCLUSION.--Initial results suggest that transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt is a safe and effective method of portal decompression for the treatment of variceal hemorrhage. 
Phase I and pharmacokinetic trial of intraperitoneal etoposide in combination with the multidrug-resistance-modulating agent dipyridamole. Dipyridamole synergistically enhances the sensitivity of human ovarian carcinoma cells to etoposide in vitro. We conducted a phase I trial to investigate the feasibility of using dipyridamole to selectively increase the sensitivity to etoposide of tumors confined to the peritoneal cavity. Etoposide and dipyridamole were administered as a continuous 72-hour intraperitoneal infusion to 16 patients. The maximum tolerated dose of etoposide was 175 mg/m2 per day when administered with dipyridamole at a fixed dose of 24 mg/m2 per day. Dose-limiting toxic effects were leukopenia and thrombocytopenia. No other major toxic effects were observed. The free peritoneal etoposide and dipyridamole concentrations varied with the etoposide dose rate, reaching 218.9 and 25.3 microM, respectively, at an etoposide dose rate of 175 mg/m2 per day. The free etoposide and dipyridamole concentrations attained were well within the range needed for synergistic interaction. 
Identification of 17 independent mutations responsible for human hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) deficiency. Complete hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) deficiency causes the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, an X-linked, purine metabolism disorder manifested by hyperuricemia, hyperuricaciduria, and neurologic dysfunction. Partial HPRT deficiency causes hyperuricemia and gout. One requirement for understanding the molecular basis of HPRT deficiency is the determination of which amino acids in this salvage enzyme are necessary for structural or catalytic competence. In this study we have used the PCR coupled with direct sequencing to determine the nucleotide and subsequent amino acid changes in 22 subjects representing 17 unrelated kindreds from the United Kingdom. These mutations were confirmed by using either RNase mapping or Southern analyses. In addition, experiments were done to determine enzyme activity and electrophoretic mobility, and predictive paradigms were used to study the impact of these amino acid substitutions on secondary structure. 
Involvement of neutrophils in postischaemic damage to the small intestine. Haemorrhagic mucosal lesions are produced during intestinal ischaemia and after reperfusion probably mediated by oxygen radicals. Oxygen radicals react with cell membrane lipids and induce cell damage by peroxidation and induce accumulation of polymorphonuclear leucocytes in the tissue. The aim of the study was to elucidate the involvement of polymorphonuclear leucocytes in post-ischaemic intestinal damage. Intestinal ischaemia was induced in cats by partial occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery. Samples from the small intestine were excised before and at the end of the two hour hypotensive period as well as 10 minutes and 60 minutes after reperfusion. Conjugated dienes, myeloperoxidase, and the purine metabolites were determined in the samples. The tissue was also examined histologically. Seven cats were treated before reperfusion with a monoclonal antibody (IB4) which inhibits leucocyte adherence to endothelial cells and its subsequent activation. After reperfusion myeloperoxidase activity increased and the ischaemic mucosal lesions worsened significantly. IB4 treatment prevented an increase in post-hypotensive myeloperoxidase activity and attenuated the normally observed severe mucosal lesions. We conclude that the severe post-ischaemic lesions are induced by polymorphonuclear leucocytes. Such mucosal injury may be appreciably reduced by blocking leucocyte adherence with IB4. 
Significance of atherosclerotic changes of the ascending aorta during coronary bypass surgery with intraoperative detection by echography. Intraoperative echographic studies of the ascending aorta were carried out on 100 of 222 patients having primary coronary bypass surgeries between May 1987 and December 1988. The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of echographic study in evaluating the nature of atherosclerotic disease of the ascending aorta and its incidence and relationship to perioperative cerebrovascular complications in coronary bypass surgery. It was possible to obtain clear echographic images of the aortic wall in these 100 patients which were divided into two groups according to the degree of the degenerative process. Three of 13 patients (23%) (Group II) with severe atherosclerotic changes, suffered perioperative cerebrovascular complications, and early surgical mortality in 2 patients (15%) was caused by cerebrovascular complications. These complications were not seen in 87 patients with less than moderate atherosclerotic changes (Group I). 
Genetic dissection of susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in inbred mice. Mice of some inbred strains, such as 21-day-old DBA/2J mice, have generalized convulsions when exposed to intense auditory stimulation. Analysis of susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in BXD recombinant inbred strains has demonstrated the influence of at least three loci. One locus, Asp-1, is located on chromosome 12 between Ah and D12Nyu1; another locus, Asp-2, is on chromosome 4, tightly linked to b. Here we report evidence that Asp-2 is located within an 8-centimorgan segment distal to b and that Asp-3 is linked to Mtv-1 on chromosome 7. We also present evidence that these three loci account for most of the heritable variation in susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in crosses of DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice and that susceptibility to audiogenic seizures is influenced by genomic imprinting. Thus, genomic imprinting may complicate linkage and mapping studies and should be considered in analyses of complex modes of inheritance. 
Genetic analysis of microtubule motor proteins in Drosophila: a mutation at the ncd locus is a dominant enhancer of nod. The nod (no distributive disjunction) and the ncd (non-claret disjunctional) mutations are both female-specific, recessive meiotic mutations in Drosophila melanogaster. Mutations at either locus show high frequencies of nondisjunction at meiosis I and both have been shown to encode kinesin-like proteins. Unlike the ncd mutation, which affects all chromosome pairs, the nod mutation affects only the disjunction of nonexchange chromosomes. Although both the nod and ncd mutations are fully recessive, females doubly heterozygous for nod and ncd mutations show levels of X and fourth chromosome nondisjunction that are 6- to 35-fold above those observed in control females. Exchange between chromosomes can suppress this effect; thus, only nonexchange chromosomes segregating via the distributive system are sensitive in double heterozygotes. Since the phenotype of double heterozygotes mimics that of the nod mutation, we infer that ncd is a dominant enhancer of nod. Failure of ncd to fully complement nod reveals the chromosome segregation machinery to be dosage sensitive. The probability that the distributive system will fail is enhanced in females simultaneously haploinsufficient at the nod and ncd loci. 
Force-velocity and 30-s Wingate tests in boys at high and low altitudes. The effects of high altitude (HA, 3,700 m) on performance during a force-velocity test (maximal anaerobic power, MAnP) and a 30-s Wingate test (mean power, P) were studied in boys 7-15 yr of age. Forty-seven children acclimatized to HA were compared with 101 living at low altitude (LA, 330 m). They had the same good nutritional status and the same level of physical activities [average 5.4 +/- 1.1 (SD) and 5.2 +/- 1.9 h/wk at HA and LA, respectively]. They performed the two tests using the same calibrated cycle ergometer. For the Wingate test, O2 uptake (VO2) during the 30 s and the peak of blood lactate concentration ([L]p) during the recovery were also measured. No difference in MAnP was observed between HA and LA. P, [L]p, and VO2 were lower at HA. This suggests that the altitude of 3,700 m did not affect the performance of the force-velocity test but reduced that of the Wingate test. This decrease in P was linked to a lower participation of glycolysis and aerobic metabolism. The latter is related to a reduced aerobic performance at HA. In addition, the slopes of the relationships between age and MAnP, P, and [L]p were the same at HA and LA, indicating that chronic hypoxia did not alter the development of the anaerobic metabolism during puberty. 
Importance of ulceration of carotid plaque in determining symptoms of cerebral ischemia. In order to investigate the relationship between carotid plaque morphology and symptoms of cerebral ischemia, a prospective clinicopathological study was performed. Ninety consecutive intact carotid plaques obtained from surgery and 43 carotid plaques from cadavers without symptoms of cerebral ischemia were evaluated. Ulceration and mural thrombus were the only morphologic findings statistically correlated to the presence of hemispheric symptoms (p less than 0.02). Intramural hemorrhage was more common in patients with hemispheric symptoms but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.31). Plaque causing high degree stenosis had a higher incidence of intramural hemorrhage (p = 0.04) and ulceration (p less than 0.02). Ulceration of plaque plays a major role in the onset of hemispheric symptoms. The results of our study support the hypothesis that in the majority of the cases, hemispheric symptoms are embolic in nature. 
Role of a soy-based lactose-free formula in the outpatient management of diarrhea. The introduction of a soy-based, lactose-free formula during the acute phase of diarrheal illness in infants has been shown to reduce stool output and duration of diarrhea in hospitalized patients. In the United States, most infants with acute diarrhea are treated as outpatients. In the present study, infants with diarrhea who were treated as outpatients were randomly assigned to receive either a soy-based, lactose-free formula alternating with oral rehydration solution from the beginning of therapy ("early feeding") or oral rehydration solution alone for the first 24 hours of therapy, followed by a soy-based, lactose-free formula alternating with oral rehydration solution (control group). Twenty-nine infants were randomly assigned to the early-feeding group and 27 to the control group. Twenty-one (72%) of 29 in the early-feeding group resolved their diarrhea at the end of 48 hours of therapy compared with 12 (44%) of 27 in the group fed oral rehydration solution only (P = .02). It is concluded that the introduction of a soy-based, lactose-free formula from the beginning of therapy for acute diarrhea in children treated as outpatients is safe and may shorten duration of diarrhea while maintaining adequate caloric intake. 
Identification of spirochetes related to Treponema pallidum in necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis and chronic periodontitis. BACKGROUND. Spirochetes are commonly associated with periodontal disease, but it is not known whether these treponemes are pathogenic or merely opportunistic. We sought to determine whether spirochetes present in periodontal disease share antigens thought to be unique to spirochetes that are known pathogens. METHODS. We examined dental plaque from 24 healthy subjects, from ulcerative sites in 17 patients with ulcerative gingivitis, and from areas of involvement in 19 patients with chronic periodontitis, using an immunocyto-chemical technique with monoclonal antibodies against pathogen-specific determinants on 47-kd and 37-kd molecules from Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum. Serum was tested against T. pallidum by immunoblotting and by serologic assays for syphilis. RESULTS. Spirochetes with a pathogen-specific epitope on a 47-kd molecule were not found in plaque samples from any of the 24 healthy subjects, but they were identified in plaque samples from 11 of 17 patients with ulcerative gingivitis (P less than 0.001) and from 10 of 19 patients with periodontitis (P less than 0.01). Monoclonal antibodies directed against a 37-kd molecule reacted with spirochetes in plaque samples from 1 of 14 controls, from all 11 patients with gingivitis from whom samples could be obtained (P less than 0.001), and from 14 of 19 patients with periodontitis (P less than 0.001). Five of 18 normal subjects had IgG against 47-kd and 37-kd molecules, but none had IgG against 14-kd or 12-kd molecules from T. pallidum subspecies pallidum. Among 19 patients with ulcerative gingivitis, IgG was identified against 47-kd molecules in 15, against 37-kd molecules in 12, against 14-kd molecules in 4, and against 12-kd molecules in 15. CONCLUSIONS. The spirochetes found in dental plaque from patients with ulcerative gingivitis or chronic periodontitis have antigens that are thought to be unique to pathogenic treponemes. This close antigenic relation suggests that T. pallidum or a closely related organism may be involved in the pathogenesis of periodontal disease. 
Tissue injury caused by deposition of immune complexes is L-arginine dependent. Nitric oxide (NO.), a free radical that is generated from L-arginine by stimulated endothelial cells, neutrophils, activated macrophages, and other cell types, reacts with superoxide anion (O2.-) to form peroxynitrite, which itself may be tissue toxic or can then react further to form the highly reactive and toxic hydroxyl radical (HO.). Because vascular injury produced by tissue deposition of immune complexes is linked to formation of toxic products derived from activated neutrophils, we have assessed whether immune complex-induced injury of rat lung and dermal vasculature is arginine dependent. The arginine analogue, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (N-MeArg), which blocks NO. formation, protects against immune complex-induced vascular injury in rats. The protective effects of N-MeArg are reversed by the presence of L-arginine but not D-arginine. Additionally, in the absence of N-MeArg, injury is enhanced by the presence of L-arginine but not by D-arginine. Protection by N-MeArg is not associated with diminished recruitment of polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluids from animals undergoing immune complex deposition in lung contain the decomposition products of NO.--namely, nitrite and nitrate. In the presence of N-MeArg these products are greatly diminished. These data suggest that immune complex-induced injury of rat lung and skin is L-arginine dependent. These data also suggest that in vivo metabolic products of L-arginine, such as NO(.), are directly or indirectly linked to immune complex-induced tissue injury. 
Plasma postheparin diamine oxidase in patients with small intestinal lymphoma. Diamine oxidase (DAO) is an enzyme located almost exclusively in villus tip enterocytes. Its plasma activity is enhanced by intravenous heparin which releases the enzymes from small bowel enterocytes into the blood. Plasma postheparin DAO (PHD) values have been shown to be significantly lower in patients with malabsorption and villous atrophy, thus suggesting that PHD reflects the mature enterocytic mass. In this study we have assayed PHD in five patients with small bowel lymphoma (two with immunoproliferative small intestinal disease [IPSID] and three with non-IPSID lymphoma) associated with malabsorption syndrome and small bowel mucosa atrophy. The PHD test was performed at diagnosis, after partial or complete remission induced by chemotherapy, and during the follow-up. The PHD values, very low at diagnosis (0.66 +/- 0.12 U/ml), increased during chemotherapy and reached the normal range (greater than 3.7 U/ml) when complete remission occurred. The PHD values rapidly and consistently decreased whenever the disease relapsed. Our data indicate that in patients with small bowel lymphoma PHD test is a sensitive marker of small bowel mucosa damage and suggest that it could be useful in monitoring the recovery of mucosal lesions induced by chemotherapy. 
Comparison of acute and chronic protein-energy malnutrition on host antitumor immune mechanisms. Protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) is prevalent in cancer patients. However, the effect of PCM on anti-tumor immunity is unclear and critically important in an era of improving results with adoptive immunotherapy. This study examined the effect of short- and long-term PCM on tumor-specific and natural immune effector mechanisms in a murine neuroblastoma (C1300 NRB) model. A/J mice received an isocaloric 2.5% or 24% casein diet for 3 or 8 weeks before inoculation with tumor. Three weeks later lymphocytes from tumor-bearing mice were harvested for determination of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) generation and natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. Both 3 and 8 weeks of PCM significantly reduced mean total body weight by 25% (p less than 0.001) and 41% (p less than 0.001), respectively, compared with regularly nourished mice. Short-term PCM did not inhibit CTL or NK cytotoxicity, whereas long-term PCM significantly diminished CTL generation (p less than 0.001) but preserved NK cytotoxic function. These results indicate that CTL development against autologous tumor, in contrast to basal NK function, is dependent on host nutritional status. Mean tumor growth, determined by tumor-weight to carcass-weight ratio, was unchanged for both short- and long-term protein-energy deprived groups compared with results in regularly nourished mice. These findings suggest that NK function is the predominant effector mechanism inhibiting C1300 NRB growth and that NK tumoricidal capacity is preserved during PCM. 
Single vs. double stapling technique in colorectal surgery. A prospective randomized trial. Seventy patients after rectosigmoid resection were randomized to a rectal anastomosis either in the single or double stapling technique. There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups. A trend in favor of the double stapling technique was noted: 2.8 percent clinical leaks vs. 8.6 percent in the single stapling technique. 
Follicular mucinosis: histopathologic review of 33 cases. Among 33 patients with the histologic diagnosis of follicular mucinosis (alopecia mucinosa) made at our institution between 1982 and 1989, 9 had mycosis fungoides diagnosed concomitantly. Three other patients had lymphoproliferative disorders, and two had Kaposi's sarcoma. Analysis of biopsy features such as epidermal lymphocytic exocytosis, periappendageal infiltrate, and deposition of mucin revealed no predominant finding that distinguished a benign course from mycosis fungoides. A predominance of eosinophils in the infiltrate was suggestive of benign follicular mucinosis rather than mycosis fungoides. Gene rearrangement studies detected three clones in three patients with follicular mucinosis; two were in patients with mycosis fungoides, and one was in a patient with dermatitis. The outcome of these three patients is pending further follow-up. No histopathologic or clinical features distinguished these patients from the others. 
CSF changes in a longitudinal study of 124 neurologically normal HIV-1-infected U.S. Air Force personnel. Over a 2 year period, 124 neurologically normal HIV-1-infected patients had three successive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examinations approximately 1 year apart. Immunological status as measured by absolute CD4 counts in the blood identified two groups of patients over time: (a) a group with progressive CD4 decline (66 patients), and (b) a group with stable CD4 counts (58 patients). These two study groups provided us the opportunity to compare CSF changes (cells, protein, albumin index, IgG, IgG index, and IgG synthesis rate) in neurologically normal individuals with respect to immunological status over time. We found significantly increased intrathecal cellular response and IgG production over time independent of CD4 group. We conclude that any clinical study comparing CSF findings in neurologically symptomatic HIV-infected individuals must recognize and control for these CSF changes in neurologically asymptomatic patients. 
Tolerance of the carotid-sheath contents to brachytherapy: an experimental study. Tumor invasion of the carotid artery is a potential indication for brachytherapy, which delivers a high dose of irradiation to residual tumor while limiting the dose to adjacent healthy tissues. The tolerance of carotid-sheath contents to varying doses of brachytherapy, however, has not been clearly established. In order to evaluate brachytherapy effects on carotid-sheath contents, after-loading catheters were implanted bilaterally in 3 groups of 6 rabbits each (18 rabbits). Iridium 192 brachytherapy doses of either 5000 cGy (rad), 9000 cGy, or 13,000 cGy were delivered unilaterally, with the contralateral neck serving as a nonirradiated control in each animal. There were no carotid ruptures and wound healing was normal. Two animals from each group were killed at 6, 20, and 48 weeks. Even at the highest dose (13,000 cGy), nerve conduction studies performed on the vagus nerve prior to sacrifice revealed no increased latency, histologic changes were minimal, and carotid arteries were patent. These observations suggest that the carotid-sheath contents in healthy rabbits could tolerate high doses (up to 13,000 cGy) of low-dose-rate interstitial brachytherapy without complications. 
Synovial fluid immunocytology in the diagnosis of leukemic synovitis. We describe a patient with leukemic synovitis complicating acute lymphoplastic leukemia. Leukemic cells were identified in the synovial fluid by an indirect immunofluorescent technique using monoclonal antibodies against early B cell antigens. Since focal leukemic lesions may be missed in synovial biopsy specimens, immunocytological analysis of joint fluids may facilitate early diagnosis of leukemic arthritis. 
Echinococcosis (Hydatid disease): lessons from experience with 59 patients. The records of 59 patients with echinococcal hydatid disease were reviewed. Ultrasonic and computed tomographic imaging were found to be the most reliable diagnostic procedures. Thirty-seven patients with large symptomatic cysts underwent surgery. Most often, conservative extraction of the inner embryonic membranes proved effective, but cysts not extensively involving vital structures were totally excised. Cetrimide became the local scolecidal agent of choice; a role for albendazole in systemic chemotherapy is anticipated. Elective surgery in 30 patients was safe, but urgent surgery in seven patients with acute complications from cyst rupture was followed by substantial morbidity and mortality. 
Abnormal automatic rhythms in ischemic Purkinje fibers are modulated by a specific alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtype. BACKGROUND. Recent advances in adrenergic pharmacology have made possible the identification of alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtypes using the specific blockers chloroethylclonidine and WB 4101. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the present study, we used these two blockers to determine the mechanisms responsible for automatic rhythms occurring during simulated ischemia and reperfusion of isolated canine Purkinje fibers. Experiments were done in the presence of propranolol to minimize beta-adrenergic contributions to the rhythms studied. In the control situation, all fibers showed membrane potentials greater than -90 mV and normal automatic rhythms. During simulated ischemia, membrane potential depolarized to the -60 mV range. Abnormal automaticity was seen in 20% of fibers not treated with phenylephrine and in 50% of those superfused with 1 x 10(-7) M phenylephrine. The incidence of abnormal automaticity was reduced to 0% by WB 4101 (which blocks phosphoinositide metabolic effects of alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation in the heart) and was increased to 90% by chloroethylclonidine (which blocks Na-K pump-stimulating effects of alpha-agonists). Moreover, the ischemic fibers were significantly more hyperpolarized during superfusion with WB 4101 than with chloroethylclonidine. Triggered activity induced by delayed or early after depolarizations was not seen in any experiment. CONCLUSIONS. Automatic arrhythmias induced by alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation during simulated ischemia may be attributed to a specific alpha 1-adrenergic receptor subtype that is blocked by WB 4101. These results have important implications with respect to the induction of arrhythmias in the setting of ischemia and the means for their prevention or treatment. 
Continuous infusion 5-fluorouracil plus weekly cisplatin for pancreatic carcinoma. A Mid-Atlantic Oncology Program study. Fifty-six previously untreated patients with biopsy-proven, locally advanced or metastatic and measurable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were treated with the combination of a protracted intravenous infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and low dose weekly bolus cisplatin administered continuously for 10 weeks followed by a 2-week rest period. The objective response rate was 16% with two patients (4%) achieving a complete response (confidence intervals, 8% to 29%). The median survival time for all treated patients was 5.8 months; however, 26% of all patients were alive at 1 year. Both median survival time and the proportion alive at 1 year exceed that of prior reports involving large patient groups, possibly due to better patient selection. 
Mycotic aneurysm of the celiac trunk and superior mesenteric artery in a case of infective endocarditis. Mycotic aneurysms of the celiac artery are extremely rare, and in our review of the literature we found that in only one case was it due to infective endocarditis. In our case a 19-year-old female patient with culture-negative infective endocarditis presented with pain in the epigastric area. A celiac artery aneurysm was diagnosed by ultrasonography and confirmed on CT scan and angiography, which also demonstrated an associated aneurysm of the superior mesenteric artery. Since excellent collateral circulation was present, simple ligation of the two aneurysms was performed. The patient presented no major complications in the postoperative course. 
Impaired phonological reading in primary degenerative dementia. This case study reports the profile of preserved and impaired capacities in a left-handed patient suffering from primary degenerative dementia of unknown aetiology. She was remarkable because her relatively preserved object naming and semantic categorization abilities contrasted with severe deficits in speech fluency, oral reading, inability to execute spoken and written commands, and severely impaired auditory-verbal short-term memory. Her reading disorder could be characterized as a disturbance of assembled phonology. She had great difficulty reading pronounceable nonwords, but she could correctly read irregular words. She showed effects of word imageability or concreteness (more than word frequency). She also showed effects of part-of-speech, where nouns and adjectives were read more easily than inflected verbs. She had difficulty reading function words. The syntactic category effects could be proven (by hierarchical log-linear analysis) not to be an artefact of imageability differences between verbs, adjectives and nouns. In reading aloud she made visual and morphological errors, but no semantic errors. This interesting pattern of preserved semantic information and disrupted phonological processing is unusual in dementia and contrasts with the severe dysnomia of patients with surface dyslexia who are able to read by the indirect, assembly-of-phonology route and show better reading of nonwords than irregular words. Her reading by a direct visual-semantic route appeared to be associated with relatively intact object naming, concrete word reading, and irregular word reading. This selective impairment of phonological reading in the context of partly preserved semantic abilities was interpreted as confirmation of the dissociability of language functions in primary degenerative dementia. 
Acanthosis nigricans and a rectal carcinoid. Malignant acanthosis nigricans is often related to adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract, but it has also been found to coexist with tumors of the amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation system. It can precede, accompany, or follow the appearance of the underlying tumor. Evaluation of our patient's new-onset acanthosis nigricans led to the discovery of an asymptomatic rectal carcinoid tumor. To our knowledge, this is the first report of acanthosis nigricans associated with a carcinoid tumor of the rectum. It emphasizes the importance of considering underlying malignancy in the evaluation of patients with acanthosis nigricans. 
Piezoelectric lithotripsy for gallstones: analysis of results in patients with extended selection. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is successful in fragmenting gallstones, but less than 28 per cent of patients with gallstone disease fulfil the conventional criteria for treatment. However, no data exist to substantiate these selection criteria. In this study, the selection criteria were broadened to include patients with radiolucent stones of any size and number, and radio-opaque stones less than 3 cm in diameter. To date; 108 symptomatic patients with gallstones have received treatment. All patients received up to six outpatient sessions of ESWL (6000 shock waves per session) without sedation or analgesia. The dissolution therapy consisted of combined bile salt and terpene administration. The clearance rates were 9 per cent within 2 months, 21 per cent at 2-4 months, 38 per cent at 4-8 months, 60 per cent at 8-12 months, and 78 per cent at 12-18 months. Of patients with a successful outcome only 19 (18 per cent) would have satisfied traditional selection criteria. There have been no significant complications except in one patient who developed mild acute pancreatitis, which settled on conservative treatment, and two patients who developed acute cholecystitis. This study would suggest that the previously accepted selection criteria underestimate the number of patients suitable for gallstone ESWL and dissolution therapy. 
Expression of Her-2/neu oncogene protein product and epidermal growth factor receptors in surgical specimens of human breast cancers. Her-2/neu protein product was immunocytochemically analyzed in 139 breast cancers. Epidermal growth factor receptors were similarly analyzed in 74 breast cancers from the same patient pool. These results were also separated on the basis of estrogen receptor proteins and of combined aneuploidy with elevated S-phase from flow cytometry. Invasive breast cancer yielded a positive label for Her-2/neu protein (26%) and for epidermal growth factor receptor (25%), with no significant difference. Correlations with estrogen receptor labeling yielded differences significant inversely for both Her-2/neu protein (p less than 0.02) and epidermal growth factor receptor (p less than 0.01). Positive Her-2/neu protein labels correlated with a positive combination of aneuploidy and elevated S-phase (37%) and a negative combination of aneuploidy and elevated S-phase (21%), with a statistically nonsignificant difference. Positive epidermal growth factor receptor cases with aneuploidy and an elevated S-phase (75%) and without aneuploidy and elevated S-phase (42%) did differ with significance at p less than 0.05. There were eight cases positive for both Her-2/neu protein and epidermal growth factor receptor, four of six cases with negative estrogen receptor, four of six cases with negative estrogen receptor, six of six cases aneuploid, and five of six cases with an elevated S-phase. All eight cases had threatening disease--either stage III or stage IV, with one case of extensive ductal carcinoma in situ (comedo). Correlation of negative Her-2/neu protein with negative epidermal growth factor receptor was significant (p less than 0.05) in 74 cases. However, positive Her-2/neu protein did not correlate with positive epidermal growth factor receptor; there was a trend toward inverse correlation. We conclude that epidermal growth factor receptor labeling results show similarities to Her-2/neu protein results, but epidermal growth factor receptor tended to correlate with unfavorable ploidy and S-phase. Epidermal growth factor receptor labeling might be useful in breast cancers with macrocysts reported to show high epidermal growth factor activity. 
Delirium in an elderly woman possibly associated with administration of misoprostol. Misoprostol has been associated with adverse reactions, including gastrointestinal symptoms, gynecologic problems, and headache. Changes in mental status, however, have not been reported. We present a case in which an 89-year-old woman in a long-term care facility became confused after the initiation of misoprostol therapy. The patient's change in mental status was first reported nine days after the initiation of therapy. Her delirium significantly improved after misoprostol was discontinued and her mental status returned to normal within a week. Because no other factors related to this patient changed significantly, the delirium experienced by this patient possibly resulted from misoprostol therapy. 
Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 1: Overview. This is the first article in a series reviewing the extensive experience of the Oncology Section of the Skin and Cancer Unit, from 1955 through 1982, with 5755 basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) treated by curettage-electrodesiccation, surgical excision, or x-ray therapy. Recurrence rates were calculated by three methods for each of the treatment modalities: 1) by the raw recurrence rate method; 2) by the "strict" 5-year recurrence rate method; and 3) by modification of the life-table method. Our analyses show that the last method best approximates the true recurrence rate. Primary (previously untreated) BCCs had a 5-year recurrence rate of 10.6% (standard error 0.6%), and previously treated BCCs had a rate of 15.4% (standard error 1.3%) (P = .0002). The greatest risk for recurrence of treated primary BCCs occurred 1 to 4 years after therapy. It is concluded that recurrence rates of primary BCCs should be reported separately from those of previously treated BCCs and that the modified life-table method is best suited to calculate 5-year recurrence rates. 
Specific detection of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis by DNA hybridisation with a fragment of the insertion element IS900. This paper describes the evaluation of a newly developed DNA probe for Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. DNA probe PCR278 is a 278 bp fragment obtained by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the 5'-region of IS900, an insertion element contained in the genome of M paratuberculosis. This DNA probe can specifically distinguish M paratuberculosis from a wide range of other organisms, including members of the M avium-M intracellulare complex. When used in conjunction with the PCR amplification technique DNA probe PCR278 could detect as little as 10 fg (equivalent to two genomes) starting material of M paratuberculosis genomic DNA. Use of PCR amplification assays based on IS900, for the detection of M paratuberculosis, and homologous IS elements found in disease isolates of M avium should greatly help our understanding of the role of these organisms in Crohn's disease and other chronic inflammatory disorders. 
Angiosarcoma at the site of a Dacron vascular prosthesis: a case report and literature review. Four of 32 reported sarcomas related to the aorta have arisen around previously placed aortic vascular prostheses suggesting that the graft may have been an etiologic factor. Our recent experience with such an angiosarcoma arising around a Dacron aortic graft prompted a review of the lesion to identify risk factors, diagnostic approaches, and treatment options. The diagnosis of these sarcomas is seldom made before operation. Animal studies have implicated plastic polymers including Dacron as carcinogenic materials capable of inducing sarcoma in 7% to 50% of exposures. Because of the rarity of these tumors and the thousands of vascular implants used over the past 30 years, it is unlikely that this degree of risk can be extrapolated to humans. However, a tumor should be included in the differential diagnosis of any mass or thromboembolic event associated with a vascular prosthesis. 
The use of bone allografts for limb salvage in high-grade extremity osteosarcoma. Limb preservation is increasingly being employed in the local treatment of high-grade extremity osteosarcoma. Bone allografts used to reconstruct the bony defects following tumor resection offer many advantages, including joint reconstruction and incorporation of the graft to the host bone in these relatively young patients. The results of 53 patients 30 years of age or younger were assessed to determine functional outcome. Fresh-frozen allografts were employed as osteoarticular grafts, allograft-arthrodeses, allograft-prosthesis composites, or intercalary grafts. Follow-up intervals averaged 25 months (range, two to 63 months). Life-table analysis showed that the probability of a satisfactory functional result was 73% if local tumor recurrences were excluded. Complications included 16 infections, six fractures, 12 nonunions, and six unstable joints. There were five local recurrences. Eighteen grafts ultimately failed, and in six patients, this resulted in an above-knee amputation. An additional five received a second graft. The functional "end results" of the 38 patients with two or more years of follow-up examinations were 70% satisfactory in those without a local recurrence. There was no statistically significant difference in functional outcome or local or distant relapse in those patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy. The authors conclude that allografts can be used for limb reconstruction in patients with high-grade osteosarcoma who receive aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy. The functional results are comparable to other methods of reconstruction, and once incorporated by the host, offer the advantage of longevity, compared with metallic implants. 
Thoracic manifestations after esophageal variceal sclerotherapy. Endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy (EVS) is often used in the treatment of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage due to esophageal varices. We retrospectively reviewed the Mayo Clinic experience with EVS between 1980 and 1989 to determine the incidence of thoracic manifestations and chest roentgenographic abnormalities associated with this procedure. The study population consisted of 223 patients who underwent 390 EVS procedures. In all patients, chest roentgenography was done before and after EVS. Ethanolamine oleate or tetradecyl sulfate was used as the sclerosant. Fever, chest pain, and odynophagia were frequent findings after EVS and tended to be short-lived. Local complications at the site of injection, such as esophageal perforation (in 1% of EVS procedures) and abscess (in 0.3%), were infrequent but associated with substantial mortality. Esophageal stricture was noted as a late complication in less than 10% of patients, and clinically recognized aspiration pneumonitis was rare. Respiratory insufficiency developed after 14 EVS procedures. Chest roentgenographic abnormalities, which were commonly detected (after 85% of EVS procedures) but were rarely of clinical significance, included retrocardiac or mediastinal widening or densities (in 35%), pleural effusions (in 27%), atelectasis (in 12%), and pulmonary infiltrates (in 9%). Most thoracic manifestations after EVS are likely due to a local inflammatory response to the sclerosant. 
Primary and metastatic breast carcinoma: initial clinical evaluation with PET with the radiolabeled glucose analogue 2-[F-18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. The authors assessed whether breast cancers can be detected by means of positron emission tomography (PET) with the positron-emitter-labeled glucose analogue 2-[fluorine-18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). In 12 patients with primary and/or metastatic breast cancer, PET images of F-18 distribution in vivo were obtained approximately 1 hour after intravenous injection of 10 mCi of FDG. Scan findings were correlated with other imaging data and physical examination and biopsy results. Ten of 10 primary breast cancers were imaged by means of FDG PET with a tumor:background FDG uptake ratio of 8.1 (median). Ten of 10 bone metastases were imaged with a tumor:normal bone uptake ratio of 6.05 (median). Five of five known soft-tissue metastases and four previously unsuspected nodal lesions were found with PET. No false-positive foci of FDG uptake were demonstrated. In two cases with negative mammograms due to dense breast parenchyma, FDG PET clearly delineated the primary tumors. These preliminary data demonstrate the feasibility and substantial potential of PET scanning with FDG to detect and localize both primary and metastatic breast cancers. 
Cell population depletion associated with fetal alcohol brain damage: mechanisms of BAC-dependent cell loss. Neuronal death is one of the most serious consequences of alcohol exposure during development. Studies described in this paper used a neonatal rat model to address factors affecting neuronal death following alcohol exposure during the period of rapid brain growth, and relate them to possible mechanisms of damage. The profile of blood alcohol concentrations (BACs) is an important variable influencing both brain growth deficits and neuronal death--a smaller daily dose of alcohol can be more damaging than a larger daily dose, if it is consumed in a binge-like pattern that produces relatively higher BACs. Alcohol exposure for a single day also can be damaging, producing both brain growth deficits and neuron loss, if high BACs are obtained. Various brain regions and different neuronal populations within a given brain area exhibit different degrees of vulnerability. Some neuronal loss clearly is a function of cell death due to direct effects of alcohol, while other deficits may be due to either primary or secondary effects of the alcohol insult. In the cerebellum, a maturational or metabolic factor also appears to be involved with alcohol-induced neuronal death. Immunocytochemical studies using a monoclonal antibody against microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) indicated that cerebellar lobules containing Purkinje cells that are in the process of extending dendrites are ones that are more vulnerable to alcohol than lobules containing Purkinje cells that mature later. Alcohol exposure during brain development may be producing neuron attrition in multiple ways, including disruption of membrane integrity, inhibition of protein synthesis or other alterations such as lipid solubility, or by disruption of cytoskeletal elements. 
CD63/Pltgp40: a platelet activation antigen identical to the stage-specific, melanoma-associated antigen ME491. CD63 is a 53-Kd lysosomal membrane glycoprotein that has been identified as a platelet activation molecule. The current study presents evidence that CD63 and Pltgp40, a platelet membrane glycoprotein identified in this laboratory, are the same molecule and that CD63/Pltgp40 is identical to the well-characterized, stage-specific melanoma-associated antigen ME491. Identity of CD63 and Pltgp40 was demonstrated by immunoprecipitation and sequential immunodepletion studies, which showed that the anti-Pltgp40 monoclonal antibody (MoAb) H5C6 and an anti-CD63 MoAb CLB/Gran 12 recognized the same 40- to 55-Kd platelet glycoprotein. In addition, the anti-CD63 MoAb specifically recognized immunoaffinity-purified Pltgp40. Amino acid sequences obtained from NH2-terminal and tryptic fragment peptides of Pltgp40 were used to generate complementary DNA (cDNA) probes using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. A 386-bp cDNA probe partially encoding CD63/Pltgp40 and a full length cDNA probe were 100% identical to the corresponding sequence of ME491. Antibodies H5C6 and CLB/Gran12 immunoprecipitated a 30- to 60-Kd heterodisperse glycoprotein from G361 melanoma cells, as had previously been reported for antibodies recognizing ME491. These data, taken together with the extensive homology recently reported between ME491, the Schistosoma mansoni membrane antigen SM23, CD37, the tumor-associated antigen CO-029, and the target of an antiproliferative antibody-1, suggest that CD63 is a member of a new family of related molecules. 
Questionnaire versus clinical interview in the diagnosis of headache. A self-administered questionnaire based on the operational diagnostic criteria of the International Headache Society (IHS) was evaluated in a cross-sectional epidemiological survey of headache disorders. A clinical interview was used as index of validity. Seven hundred and thirteen subjects were included. Sensitivity, specificity, predictive value, and chance-corrected agreement rate for the diagnosis of migraine was 51%, 92%, 50% (PVpos), 93% (PVneg), and 0.43 respectively. Corresponding values for episodic tension-type headache were 43%, 96%, 95% (PVpos), 46% (PVneg), and 0.30; and for chronic tension-type headache 14%, 100%, 100% (PVpos), 97% (PVneg), and 0.24. It is concluded that a questionnaire is not a satisfactory tool in diagnosing headache disorders according to the IHS criteria. The methods of data collection seem to have significant influence on the results. Caution in handling data obtained by means of subjective statements is advocated. 
Vascular infection: another hazard of listeriosis. Two case reports are presented of Listeria monocytogenes infection complicating vascular reconstructions. The importance of this problem lies in the resistance of the organism to some of the prophylactic antibiotics recommended for vascular surgery. Patients with prosthetic vascular grafts, particularly if immunocompromised, may be at risk from Listeria infection and may be advised to avoid potentially affected food. 
Enterobius egg granuloma of the vulva and peritoneum: review of the literature. Two cases of Enterobius granuloma containing eggs only are reported. The first case involved the vulva, where no such granuloma has been reported previously. The coexistence of peritoneal granuloma and rectal adenocarcinoma in the second case suggests the possibility of direct penetration of the damaged colonic wall by the parasite, as emphasized by several previous reports of neoplastic involvement and perforation of the intestinal wall in cases of ectopic infections. The diagnostic criteria of Enterobius eggs granuloma, which might be a diagnostic dilemma for pathologists who are not familiar with such criteria, are described herein. 
Cardiac function in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage: a study of electrocardiographic and echocardiographic abnormalities. Electrocardiographic (ECG) changes are reported frequently after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). The aim of this study was to investigate the functional significance of ECG changes by echocardiographic assessment of cardiac function. Forty-five patients with intracranial aneurysms were studied. All patients had a 12-lead ECG and a two-dimensional echocardiogram. After patients with an history of chronic cardiac disease (n = 4) were excluded, only four patients were found to have wall motion abnormalities. These patients had only minor ECG abnormalities, but severe neurological dysfunction. Conversely, patients with other ECG abnormalities including the deep inverted T waves associated usually with SAH, had normal echocardiograms. We conclude that the ECG is not an accurate predictor of myocardial function after SAH and that myocardial dysfunction is related more closely to severity of neurological condition. 
Thrombolytic therapy: then and now. Although thrombolytic agents were discovered nearly 60 years ago, it is only within the past decade that the clinical use of these agents has revolutionized the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. There are four currently available agents approved for use in treatment of myocardial infarction: streptokinase, urokinase, tissue plasminogen activator, and anistreplase. Although each of these agents works in a unique fashion, the common end point of therapy is the dissolution of a fibrin clot by the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin. A number of clinically measurable end points have been used to determine the effectiveness of these agents in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, including mortality, reperfusion, patency, left ventricular function, left ventricular volumes, and quantitative creatine kinase isoenzyme analysis. Secondary end points have included bleeding and stroke, as well as recurrent ischemic events. Numerous clinical studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of all of these agents in achieving the desired end points and comparative studies, including several large-scale trials, have failed to differentiate among these agents with regard to efficacy. Newer dosing regimens for currently available thrombolytic agents, as well as new thrombolytic agents, are currently under active investigation and will be the subject of intense research over the next few years. Despite the lack of consensus as to which agent is superior, it is clear that thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction is the treatment of choice. 
Cytomegalovirus infection causes delayed platelet recovery after bone marrow transplantation. The pathogenic effect of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection on the hematopoietic recovery after bone marrow transplantation (BMT) was retrospectively studied in 87 recipients of (nonpurged) autologous BMT and in 56 recipients of allogeneic BMT from HLA-identical siblings. Indications for autologous BMT were lymphomas or acute leukemias and for allogeneic BMT various malignancies or aplastic anemia. Patients were divided for the study in two groups, CMV-positive and CMV-negative on the basis of the CMV status pretransplant, and CMV-negative patients were kept CMV-negative by the local transfusion policy. In allogeneic BMT recipients, platelet recovery was significantly slower in CMV-positive patients than in CMV-negative patients (platelets greater than 50,000 cells/microL after 41 days v 27 days, P = .007). This difference held true when patients with acute graft-versus-host disease above grade I were excluded (platelets greater than 50,000 cells/microL after 42 days v 24 days, P = .01). In autologous BMT, the negative effect on platelet recovery was present in patients with lymphomas, but absent in patients with acute leukemias. Patients with acute leukemias had a very delayed recovery of platelets and granulocytes after autologous BMT, irrespective of the CMV status, probably due to the original stem cell disorder. Platelet recovery was significantly slower in CMV-positive autologous BMT recipients with lymphomas than in those not infected (platelets greater than 50,000 cells/microL after 36 days v 24 days, P = .0002). The presence of CMV infection had no effect on the recovery of granulocytes in autologous or allogeneic BMT. These data show that CMV infection causes delayed platelet recovery after BMT; however, in autologous BMT, the underlying disease (ie, acute leukemia) is more determinant for hematopoiesis after BMT. 
Diagnostic tests for choreoacanthocytosis. Two patients with striatal atrophy and a clinical syndrome consistent with choreoacanthocytosis had normal dried blood smears but their red cells demonstrated an abnormal sensitivity to various conditions known to promote discocyte-echinocyte transformation. Dilution in normal saline, in vitro aging, and contact with glass caused a great proportion of these patients' red cells to develop multiple spiny or rounded projections. Under identical conditions, such shape changes did not occur in normal patients or in those with Huntington's disease. Scanning electron microscopy showed that the age-induced increase in acanthocytic-appearing cells could be reversed with chlorpromazine. These data suggest that the red cells from these patients with striatal degeneration are deficient in their ability to preserve normal shape in the face of echinocytic stress and that this observation has diagnostic and, possibly, pathophysiologic significance. 
Ulnar tunnel syndrome. The ulnar tunnel syndrome is a relatively uncommon condition resulting from compression of the ulnar nerve as it passes through the loge de Guyon, or ulnar tunnel, in the wrist. The syndrome may cause weakness and atrophy of the intrinsic hand muscles and loss of sensation in the ulnar nerve distribution of the hand. The most common cause of ulnar tunnel syndrome is chronic occupational trauma, either from pressure exerted over the hypothenar eminence by a tool or from the use of the heel of the hand as a hammer. Nonoccupational etiologies include congenital, inflammatory, neoplastic, vascular, metabolic, degenerative and traumatic disorders. Diagnosis often requires neurophysiologic evaluation, in addition to a careful history and physical examination. Conservative treatment aimed at protecting the ulnar tunnel from trauma frequently is effective. Occasionally, surgical decompression of the ulnar tunnel is required. 
Acute catastrophic complications of balloon aortic valvuloplasty. The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry Investigators. Among the initial 492 patients who underwent balloon aortic valvuloplasty as part of the Mansfield Investigational Device Exemption Protocol, 31 (6.3%) had acute catastrophic complications. These included ventricular perforation in nine (1.8%), seven women and two men; six cases (67%) involved serial balloon inflations and seven (78%) also involved dual balloon inflations. In six (67%) of the nine patients perforation was fatal. In four patients studied at necropsy, the perforation involved the base of the lateral left ventricular free wall. Pericardiocentesis was performed in five patients, three of whom survived with (one patient) or without (two patients) operative repair. Acute, severe aortic regurgitation developed in four patients (0.8%), all women. None had significant regurgitation before valvuloplasty; dual balloons were used in two of the four. All three patients who underwent emergency valve replacement survived. A fourth patient died 2 days after valvuloplasty without operative intervention. Fatal cardiac arrest complicated balloon aortic valvuloplasty in 13 patients (2.6%), including 7 with cardiogenic shock and 4 with refractory ventricular arrhythmias. Of the seven with shock, four had been treated with serial balloon inflations; dual balloons were used in three. In two of three patients studied at necropsy, the aortic valve was observed to be congenitally bicuspid. A fatal cerebrovascular accident occurred in two patients (0.4%); it was hemorrhagic in one, embolic in another. Both patients were treated with serial (including one dual) balloon inflations. Limb amputation was required in three patients (0.6%), two women and one man; in two patients amputation was above the knee, in the third patient it was limited to two toes. 
Endocrine and immunohistochemical studies on thyrotropin (TSH)-secreting pituitary adenomas: responses of TSH, alpha-subunit, and growth hormone to hypothalamic releasing hormones and their distribution in adenoma cells. Endocrine and immunohistochemical studies were performed in two cases of TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas. The patients had elevated serum TSH and alpha-subunit concentrations despite high serum thyroid hormone levels. In addition, one patient (no. 1) had elevated serum GH levels with clinical evidence of acromegaly. GH-releasing hormone infusion increased serum levels of TSH, alpha-subunit and GH in the two patients. TRH injection increased serum TSH levels in both patients and, concomitantly, serum alpha-subunit and GH levels in patient 1. Basal TSH levels and their responses to TRH changed reciprocally to changes in serum thyroid hormone levels, although TRH-induced GH release did not. The administration of GnRH also increased serum TSH, alpha-subunit, and GH levels in patient 1. In accordance with these in vivo results, pituitary adenoma cells in culture obtained from patient 1 responded to GH-releasing hormone, TRH, or GnRH to secrete TSH, alpha-subunit, and GH. Incubation of cells with dexamethasone resulted in inhibition of TSH and stimulation of GH secretion without a significant change in alpha-subunit secretion. On the basis of light microscopic and electron microscopic double gold immunohistochemistry, the tumor from patient 1 was a bimorphous adenoma composed of two separate cell types: cells with TSH beta-subunit (TSH beta) and alpha-subunit, and those with GH and alpha-subunit. The remainder consisted mainly of cells with TSH beta and alpha-subunit. The coproduction of the unusual combination of two hormones such as GH and alpha-subunit in a single-type of adenoma cell and the coexistence of thyrotrophs and somatotrophs in one pituitary adenoma along with the aberrant responses of TSH beta, alpha-subunit, and GH to multiple hypothalamic hormones suggest the dedifferentiation of pituitary cells to multipotential progenitor cells by neoplastic transformation. 
Long-term roentgenographic and functional changes in patients who were treated with wide fenestration for central lumbar stenosis. Thirty-four patients who had central stenosis of the lumbar spine were treated with wide fenestration, a procedure in which only the medial parts of the inferior facets and the adjoining ligamentum flavum were removed. The patients were followed for an average of five and one-half years (range, four and one-half years to seven years and ten months). Wide fenestration successfully relieved the symptoms. The new bone that was laid down in the operatively treated segments did not reproduce the symptoms of spinal stenosis; instead, it appeared to stabilize those segments. 
Temporal thresholds for neocortical infarction in rats subjected to reversible focal cerebral ischemia. We investigated the temporal threshold for focal cerebral infarction in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. The right middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery were occluded for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 24 hours, and all the animals were sacrificed 24 hours after the onset of ischemia. Cortical infarct volumes and edema volumes were quantified in serial frozen sections of hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue using image analysis. Upon occlusion, blood flow in the core of the ischemic zone, measured with laser-Doppler flowmetry, fell to a mean +/- standard deviation of 21 +/- 7% of the preocclusion baseline value (n = 26). During the first hour of ischemia, blood flow in the densely ischemic zone rose to 27 +/- 8% of baseline (n = 25). Release of the middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery occlusions rapidly restored cortical blood flow to 213 +/- 83% of baseline (n = 21). Focal ischemia of 1 hour's duration caused little or no infarction, while ischemic intervals of 2 and 3 hours produced successively larger volumes of infarcted cortex. Ischemic intervals of 3-4 hours' duration followed by approximately 20 hours of recirculation yielded infarct volumes that were not significantly different from those after 24 hours of permanent focal ischemia. The results indicate that 3-4 hours of focal cerebral ischemia in this rat model is sufficient to attain maximal infarction and suggest that recirculation or pharmacological interventions after this time will provide little benefit. 
Long-term follow-up after partial removal of a solitary kidney BACKGROUND. The removal of more than one kidney in animals leads to proteinuria and progressive renal failure due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. This injury may be the result of chronic glomerular hyperfiltration. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a reduction in renal mass of more than 50 percent on residual renal function and morphology in humans. METHODS. We evaluated long-term renal function in 14 patients with a solitary kidney who had undergone partial nephrectomy for renal-cell or transitional-cell carcinoma. In 12, the first kidney had been removed 2 months to 21 years previously for the same type of cancer; in 2, the other kidney was congenitally atrophic. Before surgery, no patient had clinical or histopathological evidence of primary renal disease. All 14 patients underwent partial nephrectomy to remove a localized tumor, with 25 to 75 percent of the solitary kidney being excised. They were evaluated 5 to 17 years after surgery (mean, 7.7). RESULTS. Twelve patients had stable postoperative renal function, and end-stage renal failure developed in two. There were no changes in blood pressure in any patient during follow-up. Nine patients had proteinuria, which was mild (0.15 to 0.8 g of urinary protein per day) in five. The extent of proteinuria was inversely correlated with the amount of remaining renal tissue (P = 0.0065) and directly correlated with the duration of follow-up (P = 0.0005). Four patients with moderate-to-severe proteinuria had renal biopsies, which revealed focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in three patients and global glomerulosclerosis in one. CONCLUSIONS. Long-term renal function remains stable in most patients with a reduction in renal mass of more than 50 percent. These patients are, however, at increased risk for proteinuria, glomerulopathy, and progressive renal failure. 
Comparison of speed of onset of analgesic effect of diamorphine and morphine. In a random, double-blind crossover trial using an ischaemic limb pain model we have assessed the speed of onset of analgesia after an i.v. bolus of equipotent doses of diamorphine and morphine in 12 healthy male volunteers. Pain and its subsequent relief were assessed by means of a visual analogue scale. Two of the subjects found diamorphine acted quicker than morphine, one found no difference and nine found that morphine was quicker than diamorphine. The mean time to diamorphine effect was 53% greater than for morphine (P less than 0.005, Wilcoxon rank sum test). These findings suggest that, for rapid relief of pain, morphine is more suitable than diamorphine. 
Management of malignant air leak in a child with a neonatal high-frequency oscillatory ventilator. A 10-year-old, 36-kg child with a malignant air leak who failed conventional mechanical ventilation and high-frequency jet ventilation was successfully treated with a neonatal high-frequency oscillatory ventilator for 31 days. Since the air leak resolved with minimal hemodynamic compromise, this technique may have application in the management of respiratory failure and air leak in the older and larger child for prolonged periods of time. 
Continuous intratumoral infusion of methotrexate for recurrent glioblastoma: a pilot study. Five patients with documented recurrences of glioblastoma multiforme were given continuous infusions of methotrexate delivered intratumorally using implantable catheters and subcutaneous refillable pumps. A continuous infusion of methotrexate (1 mg/d) was begun with concomitant oral administration of folinic acid. The methotrexate dose was increased every 2 weeks to 3, 10, 30, and, ultimately, 75 mg/d in two patients. Samples of serum and ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were obtained to determine the levels of methotrexate and total bioactive folates, and brain tissue was obtained from two patients for determination of methotrexate concentration. The patients survived from 7 to 49 weeks after the implantation of the infusion device. Neither the clinical examination nor sequential radiological studies gave clear evidence of reduction in tumor size. Pneumonia developed in one patient, and mild hepatitis and increased seizure frequency in another. Methotrexate was stable in the delivery system over 12 days, and ventricular CSF reached steady-state levels by 5 days. Steady-state ventricular CSF levels of methotrexate were higher than serum levels in some patients, while the reverse was true in others. Levels of total bioactive folates in the CSF did not increase above the normal range. Methotrexate concentrations were highest at the center of the tumor, but measurable amounts of methotrexate were detectable in all areas of the brain. At autopsy in four patients, variable liquefactive necrosis of the brain tumors was seen, and viable tumor was found at the periphery of the tumor bed. These preliminary results suggest that it is technically feasible to infuse methotrexate into brain tumor cavities, and show that little central nervous system or systemic toxicity was encountered in five patients. Better delineation of the safety and efficacy of this therapeutic approach will require further clinical trials. 
Benign spinal nerve sheath tumors: their occurrence sporadically and in neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2. Benign spinal nerve sheath tumors (neurofibromas and schwannomas) often occur on dorsal nerve roots sporadically or in neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2. These are histologically benign tumors, and distinction between them is frequently not made by clinicians. To determine if there is a correlation between the histological pattern of benign spinal nerve sheath tumors and the type of neurofibromatosis, the clinical and pathological features of these tumors (86 surgical specimens and five autopsies) in 68 patients were reviewed. The patients were classified into one of four categories: neurofibromatosis type 1, neurofibromatosis type 2, uncertain, or sporadic. The diagnostic criteria used for neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2 were established by the National Institutes of Health. Patients who did not fulfill criteria for either neurofibromatosis type 1 or 2 but who had multiple nervous system tumors or other stigmata of neurofibromatosis were designated "uncertain." Spinal nerve sheath tumors were considered sporadic in 42 cases (40 schwannomas and two neurofibromas). In the 14 patients with neurofibromatosis type 1, all spinal nerve sheath tumors were neurofibromas. In six of the seven patients with neurofibromatosis type 2, all spinal nerve sheath tumors were schwannomas. One patient with neurofibromatosis type 2 had a spinal nerve sheath schwannoma and a tumor with features of both tumor types. The authors conclude that spinal nerve sheath tumors in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 are neurofibromas. In contrast, spinal nerve sheath tumors occurring in neurofibromatosis type 2 or sporadically are most frequently schwannomas. The distinct histological features of these tumors may reflect different pathogenetic mechanisms even though they arise at identical sites in neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2. 
Demonstration of myocardial reperfusion injury in humans: results of a pilot study utilizing acute coronary angioplasty with perfluorochemical in anterior myocardial infarction. Reperfusion may limit the amount of potentially salvageable myocardium through the introduction of cellular elements into previously ischemic but viable myocardium (reperfusion injury). It has been demonstrated that intracoronary infusion of a 20% intravascular perfluorochemical emulsion (Fluosol) significantly reduces infarct size and results in improved left ventricular function in the canine model. This pilot study was performed to explore the existence of myocardial reperfusion injury in humans. Utilizing Fluosol as a probe in conjunction with emergency coronary angioplasty, 26 patients presenting within 4 h with a first anterior myocardial infarction were randomized to emergency angioplasty or angioplasty followed by a 30-min intracoronary infusion of Fluosol at 40 ml/min. Global and regional ventricular function were assessed immediately and a mean of 12 days after successful angioplasty with contrast ventriculography. Infarct size was semiquantitated with thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images before discharge. Twelve patients (six undergoing angioplasty alone, six treated with angioplasty and Fluosol) had an occluded infarct-related vessel (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction [TIMI] grade 0 to 1) at the time of emergency catheterization and were included in the final analysis. At 12 days after successful angioplasty, the improvement in regional ventricular function was greater in patients receiving adjunctive therapy with intracoronary Fluosol versus those undergoing angioplasty alone utilizing both the radial shortening and centerline method, respectively (23 +/- 3.1% vs. 8 +/- 2.3%, p less than 0.02; and -1.6 +/- 0.4 vs. -2.9 +/- 0.2 SD/chord, p less than 0.05). 
The effect of diazepam enema on the rectal mucosa of rats. The use of undiluted intravenous diazepam solution administered as an enema has been recommended for the acute management of seizures when intravenous access cannot be obtained. It is well absorbed, rapidly effective, and generally accepted as being safe when used in this manner. The effect of intravenous diazepam solution on the rectal mucosa has not been studied. This study demonstrates that there are no acute changes in the rectal mucosa of adult rats after administration of 10 to 20 times the recommended human dose. 
Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging following cranial base surgery. The computed tomography scans and magnetic resonance imaging films of 57 patients who underwent anterior or anterolateral cranial base surgery from January 1987 to August 1989 were retrospectively reviewed to ascertain the significance of early and late postoperative intracranial imaging changes. Extra-axial changes (air, blood, cerebrospinal fluid collection) were found in 96% of patients; axial changes (brain edema, contusion) were seen in 30% of patients in the first postoperative period (72 hours). Subsequently, extra-axial changes began to resolve but axial changes became more prevalent. After 6 months, only axial changes persisted (encephalomalacia). It was encouraging to find a low correlation of imaging abnormalities with clinically significant findings. 
Circadian variation of transient myocardial ischemia in the early out-of-hospital period after first acute myocardial infarction. Circadian rhythms have been demonstrated in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and in other clinical cardiac dysfunctions. The purpose of this study was to elucidate whether a circadian pattern of transient myocardial ischemia exists after first AMI. Prospectively, 24-hour ambulatory ST-segment monitoring was initiated at discharge on day 11 +/- 5 in 123 consecutive survivors of first AMI. A total of 93 ischemic episodes (91 asymptomatic) occurred in 21 of the 123 patients (17%) (mean duration of 30 minutes, range 4 to 292). A significant circadian rhythm of transient myocardial ischemia was found with a peak activity occurring in the evening hours (p less than 0.01). Thus, 43% of ischemic episodes and 42% of ischemic time occurred between 6 P.M. and 12 midnight. The characteristics of morning and evening episodes were similar, except for the heart rate at maximal ST-segment depression, which was significantly higher during morning episodes (p less than 0.02). Patients with transient myocardial ischemia had a diurnal distribution similar to the circadian variation displayed during ischemic activity. Thus, 16 of the 21 patients had ischemic episodes from 6 P.M. to 12 midnight versus 10 patients from 6 A.M. to 12 noon (p less than 0.01). The 24-hour mean minimal heart rate was significantly higher in patients with than without ischemic episodes (p less than 0.02). In conclusion, this study has established a significant circadian peak of transient myocardial ischemia in the evening hours in survivors of first AMI. Whether the pattern displayed is due to endogenous biologic functions or cyclic variations, or both, in the external environment needs to be clarified. 
Nd:YAG iliac and femoropopliteal laser angioplasty: results with large probes as "sole therapy". Laser assisted balloon angioplasty with a laser heated metallic capped fiberoptic catheter may be effective in the treatment of femoral and iliac artery occlusive disease. In order to avoid the inherent trauma of balloon angioplasty, yet at the same time "debulk" atheroma, 75 patients underwent laser angioplasty of the superficial femoral and iliac arteries as "sole therapy". Laser angioplasty was performed using an Nd:YAG laser coupled to a 600 micron fiber and a 3.5 mm probe (22-28 watts), 4.2 mm or 5.0 probe (32-40 watts). Fifty-nine patients had laser angioplasty for claudication and 16 for limb salvage. The initial angiographic success rate was 84% (41/49) (lesion length 2-14 cm) for the superficial femoral and 69% (18/26) (lesion length 2-14 cm) for the iliac arteries. In follow-up extending to 21 months (mean 14.4 months) 73% (30/41) of the superficial femoral artery and 76% (14/18) of the initially recanalized iliac arteries remain patent. When initial failures are included, this represents an overall intermediate-term patency rate of 52% (32/49) for superficial femoral and 49% (14/26) for iliac arteries respectively. By avoiding the disruptive effect on the arterial wall architecture caused by balloon angioplasty, while at the same time ablating and vaporizing more atheromatous material with larger laser probes, the long-term patency rates of laser angioplasty as "sole therapy" may prove to be superior to those of laser assisted balloon angioplasty. 
Traumatic anterior fossa cerebrospinal fluid fistulae and craniofacial considerations. Traumatic cerebrospinal fluid fistulae may present a diagnostic and treatment challenge to the head and neck surgeon. The clinical presentation may be obscured by associated injuries. This article serves as a guide in the understanding, diagnosis, and management of patients with dural fistulae of the anterior cranial fossa. 
Left ventricular thrombus in anterior acute myocardial infarction after thrombolysis. A GISSI-2 connected study. BACKGROUND. Streptokinase reduces the incidence of left ventricular thrombosis after acute myocardial infarction. However, it is unknown whether a similar effect can be obtained with different thrombolytic agents and whether subcutaneous calcium heparin can have an additional efficacy. METHODS AND RESULTS. To compare the effects of two different thrombolytic agents combined or not with heparin on the incidence and features of left ventricular thrombi and their related embolic events, we performed a GISSI-2 ancillary echocardiographic study (the first echocardiogram obtained within 48 hours of symptoms onset and the second before hospital discharge) that enrolled 180 consecutive patients (mean age, 63 +/- 11 years, 142 men) with a first anterior acute myocardial infarction. Patients were randomized into four groups of treatment: recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (n = 47), rt-PA plus heparin (n = 45), streptokinase (n = 39), and streptokinase plus heparin (n = 49). Left ventricular thrombosis was observed in 51 of 180 patients (28%). No significant differences were found concerning the incidence of thrombi in the four treatment groups. Mural shape of left ventricular thrombi was found more frequently than the protruding shape (71% versus 29% at the first examination, 64% versus 36% at the second), particularly in heparin-treated patients (93% versus 7% at first examination, 70% versus 30% at the second). Only one embolic event (0.5%) occurred during the hospitalization. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that 1) the rate of left ventricular thrombi does not differ in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated either with streptokinase or rt-PA, 2) subcutaneous heparin, when begun 12 hours after intravenous thrombolysis, does not appear to further reduce the occurrence of thrombi but seems to influence the shape of left ventricular thrombi, and 3) during the predischarge period, embolic events are rare in patients treated by thrombolysis. 
Enhanced interstitial fluid adenosine attenuates myocardial stunning. Reversible myocardial dysfunction associated with transient ischemia has been termed the stunned myocardium. Because exogenous adenosine has been shown to protect the ischemic myocardium, we hypothesized that augmentation of endogenous adenosine levels would attenuate myocardial stunning. To induce stunning, anesthetized dogs were subjected to 15 minutes of ischemia (left anterior descending artery occlusion) followed by 60 minutes of reperfusion. Erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl) adenine (EHNA; 5 mg/kg/hr), an adenosine deaminase inhibitor, was used to augment adenosine levels. The effect of EHNA on interstitial fluid (ISF) adenosine levels, coronary blood flow, and regional systolic wall thickening was compared with that of an untreated group (n = 8). EHNA increased preischemia ISF adenosine levels threefold and was associated with a corresponding increase in coronary blood flow. EHNA administration did not alter preischemia systolic wall thickening. Although ISF adenosine increased fourfold during ischemia in the untreated group, ISF adenosine increased nearly sixtyfold above preischemia values in the EHNA-treated group and remained elevated throughout reperfusion. Postischemic regional function was enhanced significantly in the group treated with EHNA. These data show that adenosine deaminase inhibition increased ISF adenosine levels and attenuated myocardial stunning. Metabolic manipulation of myocardial ISF nucleoside levels may be beneficial in limiting postischemic myocardial dysfunction. 
Misdiagnosed papillary renal adenocarcinoma. We present 3 patients with papillary renal adenocarcinoma who were initially misdiagnosed owing to unusual clinical presentation. We suggest that if these presentations are borne in mind, pre-operative detection of this uncommon condition should be possible more often than is now the case. 
E1A oncogene induction of cytolytic susceptibility eliminates sarcoma cell tumorigenicity. The manner in which oncogenes influence tumorigenicity beyond their ability to immortalize cells is uncertain. We tested the hypothesis that, in addition to subverting cellular growth controls, oncogenes can actively determine tumor-inducing capacity by affecting neoplastic cell susceptibility to destruction by the host cellular immune response. The adenovirus type 5 E1A oncogene, which induces susceptibility to lysis by natural killer cells and encodes epitopes recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes, was transfected into highly tumorigenic sarcoma cells. E1A expression in these sarcoma cells eliminated their tumorigenicity in recipients with natural killer cell activity that was competent to lyse these E1A-positive targets. Thymus-dependent responses were not required for tumor rejection. These results indicate that oncogene-regulated cellular pathways that affect neoplastic cell susceptibility to natural killer cell lytic mechanisms may influence tumor development in the immunocompetent host. 
Antiperistaltic and isoperistaltic intussusception associated with abnormal motility after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass: a case report. Antiperistaltic and recurrent intussusceptions are extremely rare in the adult. We report a patient with both. The patient developed an antiperistaltic intussusception distal to her Roux enteroenterostomy years after a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass for morbid obesity. The diagnosis was made preoperatively with gastrointestinal contrast radiography and ultrasonography. At surgery, the intussusception was reduced, and 12 inches of nonviable bowel was resected, with a functional end-to-end anastomosis. An isoperistaltic intussusception occurred in the early postoperative period just distal to the anastomosis. Manometric evaluation of the Roux limb after the second operation showed altered gastrointestinal motility, consisting of orad-propagated and aboard-propagated migrating motor complexes, minimal phase 2 activity, and lack of conversion to the fed pattern with a liquid meal. Although manometry was not performed before the development of the intussusception, our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that altered intestinal motility may contribute to the development of intussusception. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left coronary artery in patients with chronic occlusion of the right coronary artery: clinical and functional results. The safety and therapeutic benefits of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left anterior descending coronary artery, the left circumflex coronary artery or both were assessed in 61 patients with chronic (greater than 3 months) occlusion of the right coronary artery. Recanalization of the right coronary artery was not performed before dilatation of left coronary artery lesions. All lesions could be dilated without an acute ischemic event in the catheterization laboratory. However, three patients underwent coronary artery bypass surgery within the first 8 days after coronary angioplasty. There were no in-hospital deaths. Of the remaining 58 patients, 51 (88%) had repeat angiography at a mean of 5.2 +/- 2.5 months. Patients were divided into two groups according to the presence (n = 17) or absence (n = 34) of restenosis defined as greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis at the dilated site. Baseline characteristics were comparable. The mean value for angina functional class at follow-up was significantly better in the group without than in the group with restenosis (0.4 +/- 0.6 vs 2.1 +/- 1.1, respectively; p less than 0.001). Sixty-five percent of the patients without restenosis were asymptomatic at follow-up. Seventy-five percent of the predicted maximal physical capacity was reached by 76% of the patients without restenosis compared with 33% in the group with restenosis (p less than 0.05). 
Chronic xerostomia increases esophageal acid exposure and is associated with esophageal injury. OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of chronic xerostomia on parameters of gastroesophageal reflux and esophagitis. DESIGN: Observational study of a cohort of male patients with xerostomia and age-matched control subjects. SETTING: Tertiary-care Veterans Affairs Medical Center. SUBJECTS: Sixteen male patients with chronic xerostomia secondary to radiation for head and neck cancers or medications. Nineteen age-matched male control subjects with comparable alcohol and smoking histories. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Esophageal motility was similar in patients with xerostomia and controls. Clearance of acid from the esophagus and 24-hour intraesophageal pH were markedly abnormal in patients with xerostomia. Symptoms and signs of esophagitis were significantly more frequent in subjects with xerostomia. CONCLUSIONS: Chronic xerostomia may predispose to esophageal injury, at least in part, by decreasing the clearance of acid from the esophagus and altering 24-hour intraesophageal pH. Esophageal injury is a previously unreported complication of long-term salivary deficiency. 
Echo/Doppler and hemodynamic correlates of vasodilator responsiveness in primary pulmonary hypertension. To determine correlates of acute vasodilator responsiveness in primary pulmonary hypertension, we retrospectively studied 25 patients, comparing 41 resting echo/Doppler and nine resting catheterization variables with the maximal reduction in pulmonary vascular resistance achieved during vasodilator trials. Twelve vasodilators were tested (mean, 5.6 drugs per patient; range, three to eight). Eight patients were vasodilator responsive, as defined by a reduction in pulmonary vascular resistance greater than or equal to 30 percent in response to at least one agent. Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed only Doppler pulmonic peak flow velocity to be an independent correlate of responsiveness (p less than 0.05). Responders differed from nonresponders in having a higher Doppler pulmonic peak flow velocity (PV) (SD 81 +/- 24 vs 64 +/- 15 cm/s; p = 0.05), lower mean right atrial pressure (RAP) (6 +/- 4 vs 13 +/- 7 mm Hg; p = 0.04), and longer median survival (37 vs 5 months; p = 0.03). Seven of eight responders had RAP less than or equal to 10 mm Hg, and all responders had PV greater than 60 cm/s. Seven of ten patients with both RAP less than or equal to 10 and PV greater than 60 and one of the 15 remaining patients were vasodilator responsive (p less than 0.001). Thus, echo/Doppler and invasive hemodynamic parameters correlate with acute vasodilator responsiveness in primary pulmonary hypertension. Patients with low PV and high RAP values were almost never vasodilator responsive. Doppler pulmonic peak velocity and mean RAP may be useful in identifying patients most likely to respond to acute vasodilator trials and those in whom testing is unlikely to yield positive results. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in renal cell carcinoma: an accurate diagnostic technique for intracaval neoplastic extension. Between 4 and 10% of patients with renal cell carcinoma have tumor involving the inferior vena cava and many of these patients have suprahepatic extension. In patients with intracaval neoplastic extension precise definition of the superior aspect of the tumor thrombus is critical. Transabdominal ultrasonography, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and inferior venacavography are all currently used to evaluate the inferior vena cava in these patients. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography was used to image the inferior vena cava in 5 patients with renal cell carcinoma and intracaval neoplastic extension. In each patient transesophageal echocardiography correctly revealed the superior extent of tumor thrombus. In 3 patients tumor thrombus was found at a higher level by transesophageal echocardiography than by CT, MRI and inferior venacavography. In all patients tumor imaging by transesophageal echocardiography correlated well with the gross appearance and extent of tumor found at operation. Echocardiography also documented the absence of residual gross tumor after resection. Transesophageal echocardiography was also useful to assess left ventricular function. Although each of these patients had a pulmonary artery catheter as well transesophageal echocardiography can be useful in situations when right atrial tumor thrombus prevents right heart catheterization. This small series demonstrates that intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography can accurately evaluate the extent of tumor thrombus and provides a means to assess myocardial function complementary to the pulmonary artery catheter. 
A randomized clinical trial of feeder vessel photocoagulation of sickle cell retinopathy. A long-term follow-up. Long-term follow-up of patients enrolled in a randomized prospective trial of feeder vessel photocoagulation for proliferative sickle retinopathy has been completed. Of the 44 patients enrolled in Chicago, nearly a decade follow-up has been achieved on 29 patients (45 eyes). There were 20 control untreated eyes and 25 argon laser-treated eyes. Prolonged loss of visual acuity was rare in both groups. Argon laser photocoagulation has had a sustained effect on reducing the incidence of vitreous hemorrhage and visual loss from vitreous hemorrhage. Nine (45%) of 20 control eyes had vitreous hemorrhage, and it was recurrent in six (66%) of these nine eyes. A single episode was the only hemorrhagic event in the treated eyes. The laser-induced complications of choroidal neovascularization or retinal detachment were not associated with long-term visual sequelae. New sea fan evolution in 47% of study eyes suggests that these patients require long-term surveillance. 
Left ventricular function changes after cardiomyoplasty in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Dynamic cardiomyoplasty has been reported in the treatment of severe myocardial failure. In this investigation significant improvement of left ventricular function with dynamic cardiomyoplasty was demonstrated in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy or Chagas' disease for more than 1 year of follow-up. Thirteen patients with advanced heart failure who were in New York Heart Association class III or IV were operated on. There were no operative deaths. Patients were followed up for a mean of 11.5 months, and two patients died during the late follow-up period. Five of nine patients observed long term are in New York Heart Association class I, three in class II, and one in class III. At 3 months of follow-up, Doppler echocardiography demonstrated that left ventricular segmental wall shortening increased from 11.4% +/- 2.3% to 16.4% +/- 3.9% (p less than 0.01), and left ventricular stroke volume from 23.9 +/- 5.7 to 34.4 +/- 10 ml (p less than 0.01). Radioisotopic left ventricular ejection fraction improved from 20.9% +/- 3.3% to 25.4% +/- 7.7% (p = 0.06), and its better increases occurred in patients with lesser left ventricular end-diastolic dimensions. Cardiac catheterization showed that left ventricular stroke work index increased from 14.6 +/- 3.8 to 23.7 +/- 6.7 gm.m/m2 (p less than 0.01), whereas pulmonary wedge pressure decreased from 24.8 +/- 3.7 to 17.2 +/- 5.8 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). At 6 and 12 months of follow-up, all the preceding values remained essentially unchanged. Thus cardiomyoplasty improves left ventricular function and may halt the steady evolution of severe cardiomyopathies. 
Retinal manifestations of neurofibromatosis. Diagnosis and management. Five patients presented with vision-threatening retinal tumors and systemic signs of neurofibromatosis, including neurofibromatosis type 1 (four patients) and familial cafe-au-lait spots (one patient). These tumors included large retinal astrocytic hamartomas, multiple retinal capillary hemangiomas, and combined hamartomas of the retina and retinal pigment epithelium, which resulted in rubeotic glaucoma, vitreous hemorrhage, and retinal detachment. Surgical therapy included retinal cryopexy, xenon and argon photocoagulation, scleral buckling, and pars plana vitrectomy with excisional retinal biopsy. Retinal tumors may result in marked visual loss in patients with neurofibromatosis, and vitreoretinal surgery may restore useful vision in some of these patients. 
A randomized controlled trial of the effects of three antihypertensive agents on blood pressure control and quality of life in older women. We conducted a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial to compare the impact of titrated doses of atenolol (50 to 100 mg once a day), enalapril (5 to 20 mg once a day), and diltiazem (sustained release) (60 to 180 mg twice a day) on blood pressure and quality of life in older hypertensive women. Two hundred forty-two patients were randomized. Dose titration was completed by week 4 after randomization, and the maintenance phase was completed at week 16. Diltiazem (sustained release) demonstrated greater diastolic blood pressure lowering at both weeks 8 and 16 by an intent-to-treat analysis. At week 16, diltiazem changed diastolic blood pressure -13.7 +/- 0.7 mm Hg compared with -10.8 +/- 1.1 mm Hg for atenolol, and -10.5 +/- 0.9 mm Hg for enalapril. Diltiazem also demonstrated greater lowering of systolic blood pressure at week 3, but these differences in systolic blood pressure had decreased by week 16. More patients were classified as treatment failures during the 16 weeks of the trial for atenolol (15%) than for diltiazem (2.5%), while the treatment failure rate was intermediate with enalapril (8%). Total rates of adverse events were equivalent across the three treatment arms. There were few significant differences in the impact of the three treatments on mean scores of quality-of-life measures at week 16. There was a trend for atenolol to have somewhat worse quality-of-life scores, but none of these differences were statistically significant. In conclusion, all three treatment regimens were effective in lowering diastolic blood pressure without significant differences in rates of adverse events or deleterious effects on quality of life. 
Radiation-induced meningiomas: experience at the Mount Sinai Hospital and review of the literature. From the records of The Mount Sinai Hospital, seven cases which met established criteria for radiation-induced meningiomas were identified. This represents the largest series of radiogenic meningiomas documented in North America and includes both intracranial and intraspinal tumors. The records and pathological specimens were reviewed and these data analyzed with other cases retrieved from the world literature. This study reveals that radiation-induced meningiomas can be categorized into three groups based on the amount of radiation administered: 1) low dose; 2) moderate dose and miscellaneous; and 3) high dose. The overwhelming majority of cases had received low-dose irradiation (800 rad) to the scalp for tinea capitis and the second largest group resulted from high-dose irradiation for primary brain tumors (greater than 2000 rad). The unique features distinguishing radiation-induced meningiomas from other meningiomas are reviewed. Although histologically atypical tumors were common in this series, overt malignancy was not encountered. The preoperative management of these lesions should include angiography to evaluate for large-vessel occlusive vasculopathy, a known association of meningiomas induced by high-dose irradiation. Given the propensity these tumors possess for recurrence, a wide bony and dural margin is recommended at surgical resection. 
Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies in ulcerative colitis. Comparison with other colitides/diarrheal illnesses. Previous studies from this laboratory showed that serum anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, distinct from those associated with active Wegener's granulomatosis, are present in the majority of patients with ulcerative colitis. In this study, the specificity of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies for ulcerative colitis as compared with other colitides and diarrheal illness was determined. In a blinded study, test samples of serum were screened for anti-neutrophil immunoglobulin G in a fixed neutrophil enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Levels of neutrophil binding by immunoglobulin G and titers of anti-neutrophil immunoglobulin G in sera from patients with ulcerative colitis and patients with ulcerative colitis post colectomy were each significantly greater than the levels and titers for normal controls and patients with a variety of other colitides and diarrheal illnesses. Levels of neutrophil binding for colonic Crohn's disease, bacterial/amoebic colitis, the irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea, and other miscellaneous diarrheal illnesses were not significantly different than the levels for normal controls. Although the levels of binding for collagenous colitis were significantly less than the levels for ulcerative colitis, they were significantly greater than the levels for normal controls. Patterns of neutrophil binding by serum samples that were positive in the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were determined by indirect immunofluorescence. Perinuclear staining was the predominant pattern shown by sera from patients with ulcerative colitis. The combination of a positive value in the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and a perinuclear immunofluorescence pattern was 60% sensitive and 94% specific for ulcerative colitis. It is concluded that anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies in ulcerative colitis are not simply an epiphenomenon related to inflammation of the colon. Identification of the antigen(s) to which these autoantibodies are directed may facilitate understanding of the underlying immune response and may allow development of an assay that is more sensitive and specific for ulcerative colitis. 
A rare cause of parastomal hernia: stomach herniation. Our case of a parastomal hernia is rare because the stomach became incarcerated in the hernial sac. The diagnosis of parastomal hernia is not a difficult one, but one must be aware of the possible complications of the colostomy and the rare occurrence of the parastomal hernia containing the stomach. 
Effect of valproate on human cerebral glucose metabolism. We studied the effects of valproate (VPA) on local cerebral glucose metabolism (LCMRglc) in eight patients with partial seizure disorders and two with primary generalized epilepsy. Each patient had two positron-emission tomography (PET) scans with 18F-2-deoxyglucose (FDG), with, and without, VPA (mean level 52 mg/dl, range 30-127 mg/dl). Patients continued carbamazepine (CBZ) for both scans: serum concentrations were not significantly changed by VPA (CBZ range 5.4-12 mg/dl). Seven patients had the "without-VPA" scan first. Mean interval between PET scans was 75 days. Global CMRglc was decreased by 22% by addition of VPA (7.2 +/- 1.8 mg/100 g/min without VPA, 5.6 +/- 1.1 g/min with VPA, p less than 0.05, corrected). Thirteen regions of interest (ROIs) were analyzed in each hemisphere in each PET scan. Metabolic rates were significantly lower in 15 of 26 ROIs with VPA (p less than 0.05, corrected). VPA depresses cerebral metabolism to a greater degree than do CBZ and phenytoin (PHT) but less than does phenobarbital (PB). The metabolic effect may be related to the mechanism of action and have neuropsychological implications. 
Sudden death in a child following jellyfish envenomation by Chiropsalmus quadrumanus. Case report and autopsy findings. Sudden death following coelenterate envenomation is not uncommon in Australia where the Pacific box jellyfish is indigenous. However, few cases of sudden fatal reactions have been reported in the Northern Hemisphere, and those that have occurred have all been attributed to the Portuguese man-of-war, Physalia physalis. We report the case of a child who died within 40 minutes of accidental envenomation with tentacles of a jellyfish, Chiropsalmus quadrumanus, and describe the findings at autopsy. This coelenterate may be of special danger to small children. 
Relationship between acute myelomonoblastic leukemia and infection due to human immunodeficiency virus. Infection due to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has been complicated by the development of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in five patients whose cases have previously been reported; other manifestations, including preleukemia, myelofibrosis, and myeloid hyperplasia, have also been reported in patients infected with HIV. We report the sixth case of an HIV-infected patient who developed acute myelomonocytic leukemia; HIV infection was documented by tests for serum antibodies (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and western blotting), by a markedly elevated p24 antigen level in plasma, and by cultures of CSF and peripheral blood that were positive for HIV. Furthermore, myelomonoblasts that were cultured without the addition of growth factors displayed evidence of HIV replication through the presence of p24 antigen and reverse transcriptase activity, both of which lasted for 4 weeks in the supernatant fluid of the cell cultures. This case report provides the first data indicating that HIV may infect myelomonoblasts in vivo and represents the sixth reported case of an association between HIV infection and pure acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. 
Enhanced unscheduled DNA synthesis in UV-irradiated human skin explants treated with T4N5 liposomes. Epidermal keratinocytes cultured from explants of skin cancer patients, including biopsies from xeroderma pigmentosum patients, were ultraviolet light-irradiated and DNA repair synthesis was measured. Repair capacity was much lower in xeroderma pigmentosum patients than in normal patients. The extent of DNA repair replication did not decline with the age of the normal patient. Treatment with T4N5 liposomes containing a DNA repair enzyme enhanced repair synthesis in both normal and xeroderma pigmentosum keratinocytes in an irradiation- and liposome-dose dependent manner. These results provide no evidence that aging people or skin cancer patients are predisposed to cutaneous malignancy by a DNA repair deficiency, but do demonstrate that T4N5 liposomes enhance DNA repair in the keratinocytes of the susceptible xeroderma pigmentosum and skin cancer population. 
Solitary dorsal intramedullary schwannoma. Case report. A case of solitary dorsal intramedullary schwannoma diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and treated surgically is reported. The authors review the previously published cases. The possible etiology of the tumor as well as some difficulties encountered in the diagnostic procedure and treatment are discussed. 
Bilateral chylothorax. A 2.5-kg female developed bilateral chylothoraces 10 days after surgery for coarctation of the aorta. Initial conservative management consisted of intermittent positive pressure ventilation, drainage of chylous fluid and enteral feeding, but there was no diminution in loss of chyle. Ligation of the thoracic duct and pleurectomy were performed subsequently to reduce the large daily losses of chyle, amounting to nearly three times the child's circulating blood volume. Brawny oedema of the right upper quadrant of the body developed rapidly after the duct ligation and right pleurectomy. A further period of conservative treatment was required before the latter complication resolved. The literature relating to this iatrogenic complication and to fluid and nutritional losses in paediatric chylothorax is reviewed and discussed. 
Renal effects of atrial natriuretic peptide during dopamine infusion. To study whether the renal effects of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) are different from those of dopamine, we compared the effects of dopamine and dopamine plus ANP on renal circulation. Dopamine was infused at 1 microgram/kg/min for 120 min into 7 patients with essential hypertension (EH) and 5 normotensive subjects (NT). After 40 min of dopamine infusion, ANP infusion at 25 ng/kg/min was added to dopamine for 40 min. Before, during and after the infusion, renal function and nephrogenous cGMP were determined. Dopamine did not influence blood pressure, but increased urinary Na excretion (UNaV) by 100% in EH and NT. Addition of ANP further increased UNaV by 90%, but increases in UNaV were greater in EH than in NT. Renal blood flow was increased only by dopamine, while glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was increased by both dopamine (+8%) and dopamine plus ANP (+7%) as a whole, resulting in a significant increase in filtration fraction by the addition of ANP. Plasma and urinary cGMP and nephrogenous cGMP were elevated only during ANP infusion. These results suggest that the effects of ANP and dopamine on both GFR and UNaV were additive. However, in contrast with dopamine, ANP increased efferent resistance and nephrogenous cGMP, suggesting that the renal effects of ANP are different from those of dopamine. 
Safety and immunogenicity of human rotavirus vaccine strain M37 in adults, children, and infants. Rotavirus vaccine strain M37 (serotype 1), recovered from the stool of an asymptomatic newborn infant and serially passaged in cell culture, was given orally to adults, children, and infants. Serologic responses were detected by neutralization assay or EIA in 59% of 17 adults (10(5)-pfu dose), 55%-60% of 21 infants and children (10(4)-pfu dose), and 70% of 10 infants (10(5)-pfu dose), vaccine virus was shed by 24%, 20%-36%, and 70%, respectively. In adults, neutralizing antibody rises to strain M37 and the related serotype 1 strain Wa occurred with equal frequency (41% vs. 47%). In pediatric subjects, the former were more frequent (36%-40%) than the latter (10%-18%). This was also true of 8 infants who received two doses of vaccine. Mild gastrointestinal illnesses occurred with equal frequency in pediatric subjects who received vaccine or placebo. Thus, strain M37 was well tolerated and immunogenic in young infants, but elicited primarily vaccine-strain-specific rather than serotype-specific neutralizing antibody responses. 
Clinical stage I carcinoma of the cervix: value of MR imaging in determining degree of invasiveness. The depth of tumor invasion measured at histologic examination is the most important prognostic factor in early-stage carcinoma of the uterine cervix. The ability of MR to estimate the depth of tumor invasion was studied in 47 patients who subsequently underwent radical hysterectomy. In two patients, MR failed to detect tumors with infiltration depths of 2 and 4 mm. The maximum sagittal tumor length along the axis of the cervix (D) and the maximum tumor area on sagittal (S) and axial (A) images were measured with MR. The depth of tumor infiltration determined histologically (I) correlated with the degree of infiltration noted on MR images. The univariate correlation coefficients for log I vs log D, log S, and log A were .87, .84, and .77, respectively. By stepwise inclusion of the variables in a multivariate analysis, the contributions to the coefficient of determination from including log S and log A after log D were less than 1%. The regression analysis showed that the best estimate for the depth of invasion was close to half of the sagittal tumor length measured on MR, I = D/2. Our experience shows that MR is valuable in determining the degree of invasiveness in clinical stage I tumors. 
Pneumococcal septic arthritis of the knee in a patient with multiple myeloma. Although most patients with multiple myeloma are predisposed to pneumococcal infections, such infections usually involve the respiratory tract or the meninges. Pneumococcal arthritis is rare in the general population and is unexpectedly even rarer in patients with myeloma. We believe this to be the first case of pneumococcal septic arthritis of the knee in a patient with myeloma. 
Scintillating scotomata associated with internal carotid artery dissection: report of three cases. We report three cases of cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection, which presented with visual symptoms resembling the migraine aura. When prolonged and especially when associated with other neurologic symptoms, such transient and positive visual phenomena can be manifestations of ICA dissection that mimic migraine. 
Motor variables correlated with the hand-to-mouth maneuver in stroke patients. This study investigated the relationship between each of three independent variables and the completion of the hand-to-mouth maneuver in 23 hemiparetic stroke patients. The independent variables were elbow-extensor muscle tone (graded using the Modified Ashworth Scale); active elbow-flexion range-of-motion deficit measured without the influence of gravity; and elbow-flexion strength measured without the influence of gravity with a hand-held dynamometer. The hand-to-mouth maneuver was graded according to the degree of completion using a three-level ordinal scale. Spearman (rs) correlations demonstrated a significant relationship between the extent of completion of the hand-to-mouth maneuver and both the active elbow-flexion-range deficit (rs = -.853) and the elbow-flexor muscle force (rs = .829). The correlation of the maneuver with elbow-extensor muscle tone (rs = -.063) was not significant, but the relationship may have been influenced by the fact that only a minority of subjects had elevated tone, and that elevation was minimal. The result suggest that both active-movement deficits and muscle strength may be important to upper extremity function. 
Posturally induced microvascular constriction in patients with different stages of leg ischaemia: effect of local skin heating. 1. Skin microcirculation was investigated in 12 asymptomatic subjects and 76 patients, grouped according to their ankle-to-brachial systolic blood pressure index, in order to evaluate to what extent posturally induced microvascular constriction is dependent on the stage of leg ischaemia at different local skin temperatures. 2. Skin microcirculation was assessed in the supine and sitting position by using laser Doppler fluxmetry at unheated skin temperature and at 36 degrees C, and transcutaneous oximetry at 37 degrees C and 44 degrees C. 3. Skin perfusion and oxygenation diminished with decreasing ankle-to-brachial systolic blood pressure index. In healthy control subjects, perfusion and oxygenation were reduced when changing from the supine to the sitting position, but were enhanced in patients with severe leg ischaemia (ankle-to-brachial systolic blood pressure less than 30%), indicating disturbed posturally induced vasoconstriction. 4. Increasing the local skin temperature resulted in a higher perfusion and masked the posturally induced vasoconstriction in healthy subjects. In patients with severe leg ischaemia, however, perfusion was unaltered by the temperature increase, apparently because the microvessels were already maximally dilated. The induction of reactive hyperaemia produced no additional increase in perfusion or oxygenation. 5. It is concluded that posturally induced microvascular constriction in the skin is disturbed in patients with severe leg ischaemia (ankle-to-brachial systolic blood pressure index less than 30%). Disturbed microvascular constriction upon dependency was also seen in healthy subjects after local skin heating. This suggests that posturally induced vasoconstriction is mainly regulated by local mechanisms. 
Using a low current radiosurgical unit to obliterate facial telangiectasias. A method is presented using the Ellman Surgitron to obliterate facial telangiectasias in an effective manner. One of several types of needles, low current setting, and continuous depression of the footswitch provide efficiency with virtual pain-free operation. 
Renal O2 consumption during progressive hemorrhage. Most mammalian tissues regulate O2 utilization such that O2 consumption (VO2) is relatively constant at O2 delivery (DO2) higher than a critical value (DO2c). We studied the relationship between VO2 and DO2 of kidney and whole body during graded progressive exsanguination. The relationship between whole body VO2 and DO2 was biphasic, and whole body VO2 decreased by 5.6 +/- 14.4% (P = NS) from the initial value to the value nearest whole body DO2c. Kidney DO2 decreased in direct proportion to whole body DO2 such that the average R2 value describing the linear regression of kidney DO2 vs. whole body DO2 was 0.94 +/- 0.02. The relationship between kidney, like whole body, VO2 and DO2 appeared biphasic; however, kidney VO2 decreased by 63.3 +/- 10.4% (P less than 0.0001) from the initial value to the value nearest kidney DO2c. Renal O2 extraction ratio was relatively constant over a wide range of kidney DO2, whereas whole body O2 extraction ratio increased progressively at all whole body DO2 values as whole body DO2 decreased. However, final values of O2 extraction ratio were indistinguishable for whole body (0.86 +/- 0.1) and kidney (0.86 +/- 0.06) (P = NS). We conclude that the pattern of kidney and whole body VO2 response to decreasing DO2 differs during hemorrhage, particularly in the range of DO2 normally associated with tissue wellness. 
Strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels in muscles from patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes. Intramuscular blood vessels were examined with succinate dehydrogenase stain in skeletal muscle biopsy specimens from 6 patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Almost all arteries had large granular deposits with high succinate dehydrogenase activity in their walls. Electron microscopic examination of serial frozen sections of these biopsies showed that the smooth muscle cells of the strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels contained markedly proliferated mitochondria, characteristic of patients with MELAS. The presence of strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels in muscle biopsy specimens provides an important clue toward understanding the underlying pathogenetic mechanism in patients with MELAS as well as another approach to the diagnosis of this disorder. 
Insulin action and metabolism in patients with head and neck cancer. Cachexia is a phenomenon commonly observed in patients with cancer, but its etiology is poorly understood. Abnormalities of insulin action and metabolism that have been hypothesized to promote cancer cachexia were investigated in this study using a computerized euglycemic clamp and modified frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIGT) in a group of malnourished patients with localized head and neck cancer, and in healthy, well-nourished, age- and, sex-matched controls. Glucose disposal rates, determined by the euglycemic clamp at three different rates of insulin infusion did not differ significantly between the two groups. However, mean plasma insulin concentrations at each level of insulin infused were significantly lower in the patients with cancer than in the control subjects resulting in unexpectedly higher calculated insulin metabolic clearance rate in the patients with cancer. Peripheral insulin sensitivity calculated from the slope of glucose disposal versus plasma insulin concentration did not differ between the two groups. Results from the FSIGT demonstrated no difference in insulin sensitivity or insulin-independent glucose disappearance between the two groups. However, whole body glucose appearance was significantly elevated in the patients with cancer. Thus, increased whole body glucose utilization in the absence of insulin resistance or increased insulin-dependent glucose disposal was observed. These data are consistent with the concept of a localized tumor acting as a glucose drain in which case increased glucose appearance and increased insulin clearance would defend against hypoglycemia. 
Pharmacokinetics of lidocaine in children with congenital heart disease. The purpose of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine in children with congenital heart disease (CHD). Fifteen children with left to right intracardiac shunting of blood (acyanotic group) and 15 children with right to left intracardiac shunting of blood (cyanotic group) were studied and compared with 15 children without CHD (control group). Lidocaine (1.5 mg.kg-1) was injected into a peripheral vein over 30 sec and serial samples of arterial blood were obtained up to 120 min after completion of the infusion. Total and free lidocaine were analyzed by enzyme immunoassay. The serum concentration of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (alpha 1-AGP) at induction of anaesthesia was measured in the three groups by radial immunodiffusion. The percent free lidocaine (100 x [free lidocaine]/[total lidocaine]) was greater at 30 sec post-infusion in all three groups (35-37%) than it was at any other time but was not significantly different among the three groups (P less than 0.05). There was no significant difference in either the percent free or the total lidocaine concentration at any sample time or in any of the pharmacokinetic variables among the three groups. The serum concentration of alpha 1-AGP did not differ significantly among the three groups of patients. We conclude that the presence of intracardiac shunts does not alter the pharmacokinetic behaviour of intravenous lidocaine (1.5 mg.kg-1) in children. The percent free lidocaine is greatest immediately post-injection and this may mitigate against rapid bolus administration of intravenous lidocaine in children. 
Lithotripsy versus cholecystectomy for management of gallstones. A decision analysis by Markov process. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is a new treatment method that effectively distintegrates radiolucent gallstones and is associated with a low complication rate. Using the model of a Markov process for decision analysis, survival and costs under four possible strategies to treat gallstones were compared: expectant management with cholecystectomy (EC) or lithotripsy (EL) reserved for symptomatic gallstones; prophylactic cholecystectomy (PC) or lithotripsy (PL) for all gallstones. Life expectancy for the different strategies varies by few days. Only if high annual rates of pain and complication occurred in subjects with silent gallstones would both prophylactic procedures marginally increase life expectancy. Prophylactic cholecystectomy then would be more cost-effective than prophylactic lithotripsy. Expectant strategies remain much cheaper than prophylactic management over a broad range of probability values and procedural costs. Expectant use of lithotripsy costs less than cholecystectomy. A low success rate of lithotripsy would raise the direct costs of lithotripsy above those of cholecystectomy but leave total costs of both strategies in the same order of magnitude. Lithotripsy appears to be a feasible alternative to treat symptomatic but not asymptomatic gallstones. 
Role of endothelium on the effects of neuropeptide Y in mesenteric resistance arteries of spontaneously hypertensive and Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats. The role of the endothelium in the effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and norepinephrine was investigated in mesenteric resistance arteries of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) and of the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rat (WKY). Endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine (1 microM) was reduced in arteries of SHR compared with WKY. In the presence of the endothelium, the vessels of the two strains responded similarly to norepinephrine and NPY (100 nM) produced only a slight contraction. After removal of the endothelium, the response to norepinephrine was greater in WKY than in SHR. Furthermore, endothelium denudation enhanced markedly contraction elicited by NPY in WKY (up to 40% of the maximal effect of norepinephrine), but not in SHR. NPY potentiated the contractile response to low concentrations of norepinephrine (less than 300 nM) in both strains regardless whether the endothelium was intact or not. These results indicate that the contractile responses to NPY and to norepinephrine are inhibited by the endothelium in vessels of WKY, but not in those of the SHR. Furthermore, the potentiating effect of NPY occurs via an endothelium-independent mechanism in mesenteric arteries of both SHR and WKY. It is proposed that the differential responses between the two strains are related to abnormal function of the endothelium and to decreased responsiveness of smooth muscle cells in mesenteric resistance arteries of SHR compared to WKY. 
Atrial fibrillation in patients with an accessory pathway: importance of the conduction properties of the accessory pathway. To investigate how the electrophysiologic properties of the accessory pathway affect the occurrence of atrial fibrillation in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, programmed stimulation data of 57 patients with overt pre-excitation and 33 patients with a concealed accessory pathway with documented circus movement tachycardia were reviewed. Atrial fibrillation had occurred spontaneously in 31 (54%) of the 57 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and in 1 (3%) of the 33 with a concealed accessory pathway (p less than 0.001). Sustained atrial fibrillation was induced in 23 of 31 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and spontaneous atrial fibrillation (Group A), in 7 of 26 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome without spontaneous atrial fibrillation (Group B) and in 5 of 33 patients with a concealed accessory pathway (Group C). The anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway was shorter in Group A than in Group B (252 versus 297 ms, p less than 0.001). There were no differences among groups in PA interval, right to left atrium conduction time, cycle length of tachycardia and atrial and retrograde accessory pathway effective refractory period. Atrial fibrillation is more frequent in patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome than in those with a concealed accessory pathway. Patients with overt pre-excitation and atrial fibrillation have a shorter anterograde accessory pathway refractory period. It seems therefore that the anterograde rather than the retrograde conduction properties of the accessory pathway are the critical determinants of atrial fibrillation in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. 
Diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis in children: comparison of sonography and 99mTc-DMSA scintigraphy. Ninety-one children 1 week to 10 years old with culture-documented febrile urinary tract infection were evaluated with renal sonography and renal cortical scintigraphy by using 99mTc-labeled dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA). On the basis of previous experimental studies, DMSA scintigraphy was used as the standard of reference for the diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis. The DMSA scans showed changes consistent with acute pyelonephritis in 63% (57/91) of the patients. Sonograms showed changes consistent with acute pyelonephritis in 24% (22/91) of the whole group and in only 39% (22/57) of the patients with scintigraphically documented acute pyelonephritis. Pertinent sonographic findings were areas of increased cortical echogenicity in 14 patients and decreased echogenicity in eight, including three patients with renal abscesses. Dilatation of the renal collecting system was noted in nine patients and renal enlargement was noted in three. We conclude that renal sonography is a relatively insensitive test for the detection of acute inflammatory changes of renal cortex. Therefore, it should not be used as the primary imaging technique for the diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis. However, sonography is a useful technique in evaluating the nature of the defects seen on the DMSA scan and in detecting obstructive uropathies that may be associated with urinary tract infections. 
Giant pseudoaneurysm of the extracranial vertebral artery successfully treated using intraoperative balloon catheters. Traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the extracranial vertebral artery rarely occur, because of its deeply protected anatomical location. Because the direct surgical approach has resulted in high morbidity and mortality rates, ligation of the vertebral artery has been adopted, but this can cause an ischemia in the vertebrobasilar system. We report the case of a 73-year-old woman with a huge pseudoaneurysm of the right vertebral artery that occurred after attempted placement of a cardiac pacemaker. The aneurysm was 7 x 7 x 5 cm in size and its neck was situated just distal to the right subclavian artery. Direct surgical repair of the injured vessel and removal of the aneurysm were successfully performed using balloon catheters placed intraoperatively in both the innominate artery and the right vertebral artery. 
Group- vs home-based exercise training in healthy older men and women. A community-based clinical trial. OBJECTIVE.--To determine the effectiveness of group- vs home-based exercise training of higher and lower intensities among healthy, sedentary older adults. DESIGN.--Year-long randomized, controlled trial comparing (1) higher-intensity group-based exercise training; (2) higher-intensity home-based exercise training; (3) lower-intensity home-based exercise training; or (4) assessment-only control. SETTING.--General community located in northern California. PARTICIPANTS.--One hundred sixty women and 197 men 50 to 65 years of age who were sedentary and free of cardiovascular disease. One out of nine persons contacted through a community random-digit-dial telephone survey and citywide promotion were randomized. INTERVENTIONS.--For higher-intensity exercise training, three 40-minute endurance training sessions per week were prescribed at 73% to 88% of peak treadmill heart rate. For lower-intensity exercise training, five 30-minute endurance training sessions per week were prescribed at 60% to 73% of peak treadmill heart rate. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Treadmill exercise test performance, exercise participation rates, and heart disease risk factors. RESULTS.--Compared with controls, subjects in all three exercise training conditions showed significant improvements in treadmill exercise test performance at 6 and 12 months (P less than .03). Lower-intensity exercise training achieved changes comparable with those of higher-intensity exercise training. Twelve-month exercise adherence rates were better for the two home-based exercise training conditions relative to the group-based exercise training condition (P less than .0005). There were no significant training-induced changes in lipid levels, weight, or blood pressure. CONCLUSIONS.--We conclude that (1) this community-based exercise training program improved fitness but not heart disease risk factors among sedentary, healthy older adults; (2) home-based exercise was as effective as group exercise in producing these changes; (3) lower-intensity exercise training was as effective as higher-intensity exercise training in the home setting; and (4) the exercise programs were relatively safe. 
Role of membrane proteins in monosodium urate crystal-membrane interactions. I. Effect of pretreatment of erythrocyte membranes with glutaraldehyde and neuraminidase. Intact human erythrocytes were pretreated with glutaraldehyde, neuraminidase or a combination of both treatments, incubated with monosodium urate monohydrate (MSUM) crystals and the percent hemolysis values determined by measuring hemoglobin release from the cells. The binding of MSUM crystals to pretreated erythrocyte membranes was also quantitated. Neuraminidase treated cells gave higher percent hemolysis values than untreated cells due primarily to the increased binding of MSUM to neuraminidase treated erythrocyte membranes. Pretreatment of red cells with glutaraldehyde up to a maximum concentration of 0.015% inhibited MSUM induced hemolysis but the binding of MSUM to glutaraldehyde treated and untreated cell membranes was the same. We propose a "pore" model for MSUM induced hemolysis. 
Techniques to create urinary continence in the cloacal exstrophy patient. Of 15 patients with cloacal exstrophy currently under management 11 have undergone procedures for the establishment of urinary continence. There were 8 genetic female subjects, 6 genetic male subjects raised as girls and 1 genetic male subject raised as a boy. The genetic female subjects had all undergone urethral reconstruction. In 4 patients urethral reconstruction was done with local tissues and they have subsequently undergone bladder neck reconstruction: 1 is continent and voids through the urethra, 2 are dry on intermittent catheterization and 1 is dry on intermittent catheterization after augmentation with a hindgut patch. One girl underwent a Kropp procedure along with bladder augmentation, and she is dry on intermittent catheterization, in 1 urethral reconstruction was done with an ileal nipple through which she performs intermittent catheterization and 2 await a continence procedure. The urethral reconstructions in the genetic male subjects were more difficult. Of the 6 genetic male subjects raised as girls 5 have undergone continence procedures and 1 awaits establishment of urinary continence. In only 1 patient was urethral reconstruction possible from local tissues to allow intermittent catheterization. In the other 4 the perineal urethra was closed in favor of an abdominal stoma for intermittent catheterization. Ileal plication with nipple formation of the stoma was done in 3 patients and a Benchekroun stoma was used in 1. The genetic male subject raised as a boy underwent exstrophy reclosure plus epispadias repair and subsequent bladder neck reconstruction and augmentation. Augmentation was performed in 5 patients with hindgut segments in 3 and ileum in 2. All 5 patients are currently dry on intermittent catheterization, although 1 required revision of the ileal nipple to a Benchekroun stoma. Staged reconstruction can produce acceptable urinary continence in this complex anomaly. An innovative approach is required to find the most suitable solution for each patient anatomy, bladder size and function, and mental, neurological and orthopedic status. 
Povidone-iodine in experimental peritoneal hydatidosis. The effect of polyvinylpyrrolidone-iodine (PVP-I) on experimental peritoneal hydatidosis was evaluated in this randomized blind controlled study. Seventy-five white, 3-month-old rats were subjected to laparotomy. After the intraperitoneal inoculation of viable scolices, the rats were randomly divided into three groups. Their peritoneal cavities were irrigated with either 1 per cent PVP-I solution (the PVP-I group), hypertonic saline (the HS group) or Ringer's lactate (the control group). Each group was assigned a separate code number; observers blind to the meaning of the code numbers noted all findings during a period of 4 months, after which the rats were killed to allow assessment of the abdominal cavity. The results were decoded after the statistical analyses were completed. The incidence of peritoneal cysts was found to be lower (8.7 per cent) in the PVP-I group compared with the HS (50 per cent) and control (90.9 per cent) groups; the mean number of hydatid cysts per animal was also lower in the PVP-I group compared with the other two groups. We conclude that the scolicidal activity of PVP-I is significantly higher than that of hypertonic saline and that it can be employed as a prophylactic agent against peritoneal hydatidosis. 
Induction of the paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria phenotype in normal human erythrocytes: effects of 2-aminoethylisothiouronium bromide on membrane proteins that regulate complement. To investigate the mechanism by which treatment of normal human erythrocytes with the sulfhydryl reagent 2-aminoethylisothiouronium bromide (AET) induces susceptibility to complement mediated lysis, the effects of AET on the structural and functional integrity of decay accelerating factor (DAF), membrane inhibitor of reactive lysis (MIRL), and complement receptor type 1 (CR1) were examined. Following treatment with AET, erythrocyte MIRL and CR1 were no longer recognized in situ by antibodies, and antibody binding to DAF was diminished by approximately 50%. These studies indicated that the structural integrity of the three complement regulatory proteins was either partially (DAF) or completely (MIRL and CR1) disrupted by AET. Subsequent experiments showed that functional inactivation paralleled the structural disruption. Treatment of normal erythrocytes with AET induced susceptibility to cobra venom factor-initiated hemolysis, indicating that the functional activity of MIRL had been destroyed. The capacity of erythrocyte CR1 to serve as a cofactor for factor I-mediated cleavage of iC3b to C3c and C3dg was lost following treatment with AET. C3 convertase activity increase markedly following treatment of erythrocytes with AET, but convertase activity on AET cells was approximately 50% less than that observed when DAF function on normal cells was completely inhibited by antibody. Susceptibility of AET cells to acidified serum lysis was shown to be due primarily to inactivation of MIRL. Unexpectedly, in acidified serum the activity of the amplification C3 convertase of the APC was found to be controlled by MIRL as well as by DAF. These studies show that AET induces susceptibility to complement-mediated lysis by disrupting the structural and functional integrity of membrane constituents that regulate the activity of both the C3 convertases and the membrane attack complex of complement. 
Long-term outcome of antidepressant treatment for bulimia nervosa. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was 1) to replicate previous work indicating that antidepressant medication is superior to placebo in the treatment of bulimia nervosa and 2) to assess the long-term efficacy of this form of treatment. METHOD: Eighty patients entered a three-phase treatment protocol. An 8-week double-blind initiation phase was used to compare the effects of desipramine and placebo. Patients who responded satisfactorily to desipramine entered a 16-week maintenance phase. Patients who remained well were then randomly assigned to either desipramine or placebo for 6 additional months (discontinuation phase). The primary outcome measure was binge frequency, which was assessed weekly by self-report diaries. RESULTS: In the initiation phase the superiority of desipramine over placebo in reducing binge frequency was demonstrated. Patients treated with desipramine had a mean reduction in binge frequency of 47% at termination, whereas patients taking placebo experienced a mean increase of 7%. Less than half of the patients treated with desipramine met the criteria for entering the maintenance phase, and 29% of the patients entering that phase relapsed in the following 4 months. There were not enough patients in the discontinuation phase to permit clear conclusions about the need for continued antidepressant medication after 6 months of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: The study documents a beneficial effect of desipramine in the treatment of bulimia nervosa when compared to placebo. However, limited improvement and considerable relapse with continued treatment suggest serious limitations to the long-term efficacy of a single antidepressant trial in treating bulimia nervosa. 
The prevalence of oral lesions in HIV-infected homosexual and bisexual men: three San Francisco epidemiological cohorts. To establish the prevalence of HIV-related oral lesions, we performed oral examinations of members of three San Francisco epidemiological cohorts of homosexual and bisexual men over a 3-year period. Hairy leukoplakia, pseudomembranous and erythematous candidiasis, angular cheilitis, Kaposi's sarcoma, and oral ulcers were more common in HIV-infected subjects than in HIV-negative subjects. Among HIV-infected individuals, hairy leukoplakia was the most common lesion [20.4%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 17.5-23.3%] and pseudomembranous candidiasis was the next most common (5.8%, 95% CI 4.1-7.5%). Hairy leukoplakia, pseudomembranous candidiasis, angular cheilitis and Kaposi's sarcoma were significantly more common in patients with lower CD4 lymphocyte counts (P less than 0.05). The prevalence of erythematous candidiasis and Kaposi's sarcoma increased during the 3-year period. Careful oral examinations may identify infected patients and provide suggestive information concerning their immune status. 
Lack of diameter effect on short-term patency of size-matched Dacron aortobifemoral grafts. This study examined the relationship between graft diameter and subsequent patency in 79 patients who received Dacron aortobifemoral bypass grafts for aortoiliac occlusive disease between 1985 and 1989. Sixty-five percent of these patients were men, 25% were diabetic, and 94% were smokers, with an average age of 62 years. Patients were followed for a mean interval of 24 months. Life-table survival was 92% at 3 years. All surviving patients showed "significant" postoperative improvement by use of Society for Vascular Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery combined clinical and vascular laboratory criteria. There were three early and five late graft thromboses. Primary and secondary life-table patencies were 85% and 92%, respectively, at 3 years. Dacron bifurcation grafts were selected to match the size of native arteries. Patients receiving small diameter grafts, defined as 12 mm (n = 9) and 14 mm (n = 39), were compared with patients receiving large diameter grafts of 16 mm (n = 26) and 18 mm (n = 5). Small diameter grafts were more likely to be used in women (p less than 0.01), but patient groups were otherwise comparable with respect to age, smoking history, diabetes, outflow status, operative indications, type of proximal anastomosis (end-to-end or end-to-side), location of distal anastomosis (common femoral vs deep femoral), type of graft construction (knitted vs woven), and functional result. Graft diameter did not influence life-table patency, which was 84% for small and 87% for large diameter grafts at 3 years (p = 0.74). Furthermore, none of the other variables listed above influenced graft patency. 
Nodular vasculitis (erythema induratum): treatment with auranofin. A patient with nodular vasculitis was treated successfully with oral gold. This therapy is safe and devoid of significant side effects. The rationale and advantages of the use of oral gold in patients with nodular vasculitis are discussed. 
Longitudinal analyses of respiratory chemosensitivity in normal subjects. To evaluate relative contributions of inherent versus extrinsic factors to respiratory chemosensitivity, ventilatory responses to isocapnic progressive hypoxia and normoxic progressive hypercapnia were examined at intervals of 8 to 10 yr in 32 healthy male volunteers aged 42.2 +/- 1.4 yr (SEM) in the final examination. The volunteers included 22 sons of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The mean value for the slope factor of the end-tidal PO2-ventilation hyperbola (A) significantly decreased from 98.3 +/- 12.2 to 77.4 +/- 10.3 L/min mm Hg (p less than 0.05), but that for the end-tidal PCO2 ventilation line (S) did not change over the years. The individual values for the hypoxic ventilatory response were significantly correlated (r = 0.63, p less than 0.001) between the initial and final examinations but not so for the hypercapnic ventilatory response (r = 0.23, NS), suggesting that the latter is more subject to influence from extrinsic factors than the former in the long term. The reproducibility of both tests expressed as coefficients of variation was similar or rather small for the hypercapnic ventilatory response, which was determined by three consecutive measurements at 1 wk intervals in a different group of six subjects. From these data we conclude that hypoxic chemosensitivity is more determined by factors inherent to the individual than hypercapnic chemosensitivity and that it is more systematically influenced by temporal factors, as demonstrated by the systematic decrease over the years. 
Familial leg ulcers of juvenile onset Chronic ulceration of the legs was found in the propositus and in ten male relatives in a family of Iraqi Jews. All eleven males had juvenile onset of symptoms. Venous lesions with ulceration were found in two of the propositus' brothers and without ulceration in his three sisters. The findings suggest an autosomal dominant sex-limited genetic defect. 
Continuous monitoring of cerebral oxygenation in acute brain injury: injection of mannitol during hyperventilation. Global cerebral oxygenation, perfusion pressure, and expired pCO2 were continuously monitored in 10 adults with acute severe closed head trauma. Cerebral oxygenation was monitored by fiberoptic catheter oximetry, which allowed simultaneous measurements of arterial and jugular bulb oxyhemoglobin saturation. Intracranial pressure levels over 20 mm Hg were recorded several times in all patients, in spite of sedation, muscle paralysis, and profound hyperventilation. Intracranial hypertension was frequently associated with oligemic cerebral hypoxia, identified as abnormally low jugular oxygen saturation in the presence of normal arterial oxygenation. Intracranial hypertension was then managed with intravenous administration of mannitol boluses, which yielded simultaneous decreases in intracranial pressure and increases in cerebral oxygenation to highly statistically significant levels. Monitoring cerebral oxygenation was clinically useful because it allowed identification of impaired cerebral oxygenation even when cerebral perfusion pressure was normal. It is therefore proposed as a new monitoring technique, to supplement conventional monitoring of cerebral perfusion pressure. 
The influence of volume on the tolerance of the brain to radiosurgery. Radiosurgery (delivery of a high dose of radiation to a small volume of the brain) is usually well tolerated since the volume of brain irradiated is small. Despite growing interest in radiosurgery, the influence of the volume of brain irradiated on the tolerance of the brain to radiation is not well understood. The results of six studies reporting clinically significant radiation reactions following radiosurgery for arteriovenous malformations are reviewed. In the combined series, 23 (9%) of 255 patients developed a clinically significant radiation reaction. The volume of brain irradiated and the dose delivered in each of these 23 patients are presented. The compiled data suggest that the previously presented guidelines may underestimate the risks of radiosurgery. Additional clinical and experimental data are needed to determine "safe" doses of radiation to be used during radiosurgery. 
Influence of coronary collateral vessels on myocardial infarct size in humans. Results of phase I thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) trial. The TIMI Investigators BACKGROUND. The influence of coronary collateral vessels on infarct size in humans remains controversial, partly because no previous study has examined the impact of collaterals present at the onset of acute myocardial infarction on infarct size. METHODS AND RESULTS. The present study used the data base of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) Phase I trial to correlate the presence or absence of angiographically documented collaterals in the initial hours of myocardial infarct evolution with the size of the infarct as assessed by serial measurements of serum creatine kinase (CK). To avoid the confounding effects of reperfusion on enzymatic estimates of infarct size, this report is limited to those 125 patients who failed to recanalize at 90 minutes after administration of tissue plasminogen activator or streptokinase. Patients with angiographically documented collaterals (group A, n = 51) had significantly lower values of peak serum CK than patients without collaterals (group B, n = 74) (1,877 +/- 216 versus 2,661 +/- 212 IU/l, respectively [mean +/- SEM], p = 0.004). Similarly, CK-derived infarct size estimates were significantly lower in group A than in group B (20.6 +/- 2.5 versus 31.4 +/- 2.8 CK gram equivalents, p = 0.001). The infarct size observed in patients with collaterals was less for anterior infarctions as well as for infarctions of other locations; thus, the beneficial effects of collaterals were independent of the site of the infarct. In 65 of the 125 patients who failed to reperfuse, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was assessed by contrast ventriculography both at initial cardiac catheterization (before thrombolytic therapy) and at hospital discharge. Among the patients who had both studies, global LVEF tended to increase from pretreatment to hospital discharge in group A (from 50.6 +/- 1.8% to 53.4 +/- 1.8%, p = 0.10) but decreased in group B patients (from 50.3 +/- 1.8% to 47.8 +/- 1.7%, p = 0.02). At hospital discharge, global LVEF was greater in patients with coronary collaterals (53.5 +/- 1.7% versus 49.6 +/- 1.7%, p = 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. The results demonstrate that, in patients in whom thrombolytic therapy fails to induce reperfusion, the presence of coronary collateral vessels at the onset of myocardial infarction is associated with limitation of infarct size as assessed enzymatically and with improved ventricular function on discharge as assessed by LVEF. 
A simple method for biliary-enteric anastomosis and chronic bile diversion in the rat. A simple method of biliary-enteric anastomosis, without the use of surgical microscopy, is described. There were no signs of cholestasis after 3 mo of follow-up. A modified procedure using a silicone elastomer catheter as a stent for the biliary-enteric anastomosis resulted in biliary obstruction within 3 wk after surgery. Our experimental bile duct implantation technique is a simple and useful experimental method for the investigation of chronic biliary diversion and biliary physiology. Additionally, it can be performed safely and easily in a rodent model without sophisticated microscopic techniques. 
Central nervous system monitoring. What helps, what does not. The ICU monitoring of CNS function can make a difference in the clinical outcome. No single technique addresses the multiple issues that arise in the ICU setting, especially for the polytrauma patient. Multimodality approaches combining assessment of cerebral blood flow, electrophysiologic parameters, and intracranial pressure, when appropriate, with cardiac and respiratory monitors are being developed at a number of traumatology centers world wide. Experience needs to be gained to establish the best combination of these modalities. Pending this, selected use of intracranial pressure monitoring combined with EEG and transcranial Doppler ultrasound provides reliable immediate assessment and ongoing monitoring of CNS structures. 
Prediction of lymph node involvement in breast cancer by detection of altered glycosylation in the primary tumour. Axillary lymph node metastases at the time of diagnosis of breast cancer is the most accurate predictor of long-term prognosis. However, in patients treated by conservative surgery lymph node status often remains unknown. We have investigated the relation between changes in glycosylation of primary breast cancer cells, as judged by lectin binding, and the presence of axillary lymph node metastases. In a 24-year retrospective study, paraffin-embedded sections of 373 primary breast cancers were stained for the binding of Helix pomatia lectin (HPA). There was a strong association between HPA binding and presence of lymph node metastases, but no association with tumour size, histological grade, S-phase fraction, or patient age at diagnosis. This relation was confirmed by multiple regression analysis (in both survival and relapse free survival models) in which the prognostic significance of HPA binding was lost once nodal status had been introduced into the models. Life tables calculated for lymph-node positive versus lymph-node negative and HPA staining versus non-staining patients were almost identical over 15 years of follow-up. We propose that HPA recognises a glycoprotein that is associated with metastasis (to axillary lymph nodes and elsewhere) and poor prognosis in breast cancer. HPA binding to paraffin sections of primary tumour could aid difficult treatment decisions by providing an additional assessment of staging and likely long-term patient prognosis. 
Prospective evaluation of unilateral adrenal masses in patients with operable non-small-cell lung cancer. Although adrenal metastases are frequently noted with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) at autopsy, their incidence in patients with operable NSCLC is unclear. We prospectively assessed consecutive patients with otherwise operable NSCLC for the incidence and histology of unilateral adrenal masses. Assessment included blood chemistries, lung function tests, bronchoscopy, chest x-ray, bone scan, and computed tomography (CT) of the head, chest, and upper abdomen. Of 246 patients with otherwise operable NSCLC, 10 (4.1%) had a unilateral adrenal mass. Unilateral adrenal masses were needle-aspirated under CT control. If cytology was nondiagnostic, adrenalectomy was performed. Four (40%) of 10 patients had adrenal metastases proven by needle aspiration. Of the six (60%) patients with benign unilateral adrenal masses, one was demonstrated by needle aspiration. In the other five patients, a nondiagnostic needle aspiration led to adrenalectomy, which yielded two adenomas, two hyperplastic nodules, and one hemorrhagic cyst. There was no significant difference between the patients with benign and metastatic unilateral adrenal masses with respect to patient age or stage and size of adrenal mass. Patients with benign unilateral adrenal masses underwent curative resection of their NSCLC and had significantly prolonged survival compared with patients with metastatic unilateral adrenal masses treated with chemotherapy (P = .037). Median survival of patients with benign and metastatic unilateral adrenal masses was greater than 30 months and 9 months, respectively. In conclusion, the presence of unilateral adrenal masses in patients with otherwise operable NSCLC should not preclude thoracotomy without pathologic proof of metastatic disease. 
Nocturnal hypoxemia as a determinant of vigilance impairment in sleep apnea syndrome. In sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), vigilance impairment is typically associated with highly disrupted sleep, but recently, nocturnal hypoxemia has also been identified as a second pathogenetic factor in patients with a high degree of desaturation. However, although sleep disruption has been demonstrated to play a role in both the propensity to fall asleep and the capacity to stay awake, the role of nocturnal hypoxemia has been implicated only in the latter. In the present study, both sleep disruption and nocturnal hypoxemia were assessed in 20 moderately to severely apneic patients. During the day, vigilance was assessed both by the multiple sleep latency test (MSLT), as a measure of the propensity to fall asleep, and by the four-choice reaction time test (FCRTT), as a measure of the capacity to stay awake in a performance task. Severity of nocturnal hypoxemia was found to predict performance on the MSLT, as well as on the FCRTT, but sleep disruption was found to predict performance only on the FCRTT. These results suggest that in moderately to severely affected SAS patients, nocturnal hypoxemia may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of vigilance impairment. 
Treatment of critically ill patients with sepsis of unknown cause: value of percutaneous cholecystostomy. Because of the difficulty in diagnosing acute cholecystitis in critically ill patients with severe intercurrent illness by clinical and imaging methods or percutaneous aspiration of the gallbladder, a trial of percutaneous cholecystostomy was performed in 24 patients in the intensive-care unit with persistent, unexplained sepsis after a complete clinical, laboratory, and radiologic search showed no alternative source of infection. Persistent high fevers, despite antibiotic therapy, were present in all patients, with elevated WBC count in 18 patients, vague abdominal tenderness in 11, and septic shock requiring vasopressors in 15. Sonographically, all patients had distended, spherical gallbladders, six had gallstones, eight had wall thickening, three had pericholecystic fluid, and four had Murphy's sign. All patients were seen by a senior abdominal surgeon, who agreed to a trial of percutaneous cholecystostomy. Fourteen patients (58%) responded to percutaneous cholecystostomy, as evidenced by a decrease in WBC count, defervescence, and the ability to be weaned off vasopressors. Bile cultures were positive in four patients. Ten patients (42%) did not respond to percutaneous cholecystostomy; five eventually died of unrelated causes. A respiratory source of infection was eventually found in three of these 10 patients, with no proved source of infection in the remainder. No complications related to catheter insertion occurred in this group of patients. Bile leaks occurred in two patients when the percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter was removed, but without serious consequence. Our experience suggests that a lower threshold for performing percutaneous cholecystostomy in this difficult clinical subset of patients is worthwhile. 
In situ oncocytic change in association with multiple renal cell adenocarcinomas. We report a case of in situ oncocytic change in association with two low-grade renal cell adenocarcinomas and one contralateral low-grade oncocytic adenocarcinoma. The in situ oncocytic change showed abundant cytoplasmic mitochondria confirmed by ultrastructural examination and phosphotungstic acid-hemotoxylin staining. In addition, this in situ oncocytic change expressed cytokeratin CAM 5.2 in the absence of cytokeratin AE1/AE3, as reported in oncocytic renal cell adenocarcinomas. Further study of in situ oncocytic change identified in kidneys resected for adenocarcinomas with regard to follow-up and management of the contralateral kidney seems indicated. 
Genetics of colon cancer. Strikingly rapid advances in the identification of genetic events that are important in colonic carcinogenesis have been made in the past several years. Specific inherited (adenomatous polyposis coli gene) and acquired (ras gene point mutations; c-myc gene amplification; allelic deletion at specific sites on chromosomes 5, 17, and 18) genetic abnormalities appear to be capable of mediating steps in the progression from normal to malignant colonic mucosa. Understanding these genetic factors and how they influence cellular function will have a profound effect on medical practice. High-risk populations will be (and are being) identified by genetic markers, thus allowing prevention and screening to be more precisely targeted to the population at risk; intervention strategies will be designed on the basis of the known cellular defects of neoplastic colonic mucosa; and new molecular preventive and therapeutic approaches can be developed. 
Head-injured patients who talk and deteriorate into coma. Analysis of 211 cases studied with computerized tomography. Of 838 patients with severe head injuries admitted since the introduction of computerized tomography, 211 (25.1%) talked at some time between trauma and subsequent deterioration into coma. Of these 211 patients, 89 (42.2%) had brain contusion/hematoma, 46 (21.8%) an epidural hematoma, 35 (16.6%) a subdural hematoma, and 41 (19.4%) did not show focal mass lesions. Thus, four of every five patients who deteriorated into coma after suffering an apparently nonsevere head injury had a mass lesion potentially requiring surgery: the mass was intracerebral in 52.3% of the cases and extracerebral in 47.6%. Patients aged 20 years or less had a 39% chance of having a nonfocal mass lesion (diffuse brain damage), a 29% chance of having an epidural hematoma, and a 32% chance of having an intradural mass lesion; patients over 40 years had only a 3% chance of having a nonfocal mass lesion, an 18% chance of having an epidural hematoma, and a 79% chance of having a intradural mass lesion. Sixty-eight (32.2%) patients died and 143 (67.8%) survived. The following were independent outcome predictors (in order of significance): Glasgow Coma Scale score following deterioration into coma, the highest intracranial pressure during the patient's course, the degree of midline shift, the type of intracranial lesion, and the age of the patient. In contrast, the mechanism of injury, the verbal Glasgow Coma Scale score during the lucid interval, and the length of time until deterioration or until operative intervention did not influence the final result. 
Effects of asymptomatic ischemia on long-term prognosis in chronic stable coronary disease. BACKGROUND. Ischemia on ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring has been shown to adversely affect short-term prognoses in patients with unstable angina, after myocardial infarction, and with chronic stable angina. METHODS AND RESULTS. In this long-term study, we followed 138 patients (mean age, 59 +/- 9 years) with chronic stable angina and positive exercise tests for cardiac events (e.g. death, myocardial infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, or coronary artery bypass graft surgery). In 105 patients, ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring was performed after all antianginal medication was withheld for 48 hours. In 26 patients, the diagnostic tests were repeated while on their usual medication. In addition to the 105 patients, 33 patients had their monitoring performed only while on their usual medication. During 37 +/- 17 months of follow-up, there were nine deaths, nine myocardial infarctions, and 35 revascularization procedures. In patients monitored off medication, Cox survival analysis showed that the occurrence of ischemia on electrocardiographic monitoring was the most significant predictor of death and myocardial infarction in the subsequent 2 years (p = 0.02) and all adverse events for 5 years (p = 0.009). Patients who were monitored on medication and did not have ischemia (n = 18) appeared to have more adverse events than patients who had no ischemia while being monitored off medication (n = 43). CONCLUSIONS. Asymptomatic ischemia on ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in patients with stable angina predicts death and myocardial infarction for 2 years and all adverse events for 5 years. Monitoring performed while on medication may show no ischemia; however, this may not indicate low risk of future coronary events. 
Effect of level of patient acuity on clinical decision making of critical care nurses with varying levels of knowledge and experience. This study is an examination of the effect of patient acuity on the clinical decision making of critical care nurses (N = 68) completing two computerized clinical simulations. Ventricular tachycardia represented the high-acuity situation and atrial flutter the lower-acuity situation. Clinical decision making was measured by proficiency score, patient outcome (cure or die), and amount of data collected. Analyses of variance were conducted to examine proficiency score and the amount of data collected. Fisher's exact test and the McNemar test of homogeneity of proportions were used to examine patient outcome. In the atrial flutter simulation, proficiency scores were higher (p = 0.000), more dysrhythmias were cured (p less than 0.005), and more data were collected (p = 0.040). Experienced and inexperienced nurses did not differ on proficiency score; however, inexperienced nurses collected more data (p = 0.048) and cured fewer atrial flutter simulations (p = 0.040). Nurses certified in advanced cardiac life support had higher proficiency scores (p = 0.033) and collected fewer data (p = 0.048). 
Merkel cell tumour: clinical behaviour and treatment. We have reviewed 30 reports of Merkel cell tumour and described a further five cases in order to establish a database and from this more clearly define the biology of this tumour, prognostic factors that govern outcome, and optimal management. After excision alone of the primary lesion, local recurrence occurred in 39 per cent of patients and regional failure occurred in 46 per cent. In contrast, in patients treated by excision plus prophylactic treatment (adjuvant node dissection and/or adjuvant radiation), local recurrence occurred in 26 per cent and regional failure in 22 per cent. Locoregional recurrence carried an ominous significance with 67 per cent of patients subsequently dying of the disease. For patients who either presented with regional disease or later developed regional disease, the best outcome (44 per cent survival with mean follow-up of 40 months) was obtained following treatment by therapeutic node dissection with or without radiation. In contrast, treatment of regional disease with radiation alone was associated with only a 20 per cent survival rate. Unfavourable prognostic factors included young age, lesions sited in the head and neck or trunk, male sex, and the presence of locoregional failure and/or systemic disease. We conclude that Merkel cell tumours behave in a similar manner to the aggressive variants of melanoma and that minimal treatment consists of wide surgical resection of the primary lesion (with a margin of 2.5-3 cm) coupled with resection and probably also radiation of regional disease if present. In addition, consideration should be given to prophylactic node dissection in node negative patients, especially in those patients with unfavourable prognostic factors. 
A contribution to the genetics of febrile seizures: waking and sleep EEG in siblings. Waking and sleep EEGs were recorded in 67 siblings of 52 patients with febrile seizures (FS). Epileptic activity was noted in at least 1 sibling for 28 of the 52 patients (53.8%). Epileptic discharges were noted in 33 (49.2%) of the 67 siblings. Thirty-two siblings had 3-4 Hz spike wave complexes, and 1 sibling had independent centrotemporal spike foci (rolandic foci). Epileptic activity was noted exclusively in the waking state in only 3%, in waking and sleep in 31.3%, and only in sleep in 14.9%. The greatest number of epileptic discharges occurred in waking during hyperventatilation (32.8%) and during stage C sleep (38.8%). In 5 photosensitive siblings, additional epileptic discharges were noted in sleep in 1 and in waking and sleep in 4. At least 1 sibling in 5 (55.6%) of 9 patients with complicated febrile seizures, in 23 (53.5%) of 43 patients with simple FS, and in 4 of 9 patients (44.4%) with later onset epileptic seizures had seizure discharges. At least 1 sibling in 24 of 43 patients (55.8%) with exclusively FS in 13 of 30 (43.3%) male patients and in 15 of 22 (68.2%) female patients had seizure discharges. Siblings aged 6-10 years had (66.7%) the highest rates of activation. Epileptic discharges were noted in 83.3% of siblings with seizures, but in only 45.9% of siblings without seizures. Seizure activity was recorded in 68.2% of siblings who had occipital 3-4-Hz theta-delta-activity but in only 13.0% of siblings without this pattern. 
Pulmonary vascular reactivity and permeability to alveolar hypoxia in the dog. Hemodynamics and vascular permeability were studied during acute alveolar hypoxia in isolated canine lung lobes perfused at constant flow with autogenous blood. Hypoxia was induced in the presence (COI + Hypox, n = 6) or absence (Hypox, n = 6) of cyclooxygenase inhibition (COI) with indomethacin or meclofenamate. Hypoxic ventilation reduced blood PO2 from 143 to 25-29 Torr without a change in PCO2. During hypoxia a capillary filtration coefficient (Kf) was obtained gravimetrically as an index of vascular permeability to water. In COI + Hypox, pulmonary arterial pressure (Pa) increased from 11.5 +/- 0.7, post-COI normoxia, to a peak of 22.1 +/- 2.3 during hypoxia (P less than 0.01) without a change in capillary pressure (Pc). In contrast, hypoxia changed neither Pa nor Pc in Hypox relative to an untreated normoxic control group (Normox, n = 6, P greater than 0.05). Kfs (means +/- SE in ml.min-1.Torr-1.100 g-1) for Normox (0.070 +/- 0.014), Hypox (0.082 +/- 0.024), and COI + Hypox (0.057 +/- 0.017) did not differ from one another (P greater than 0.05). Although COI markedly enhanced the pressor response to acute alveolar hypoxia, hypoxia increased neither Pc nor vascular permeability regardless of COI. 
Long-term prognosis after early intervention with metoprolol in suspected acute myocardial infarction: experiences from the MIAMI Trial. The MIAMI Trial Research Group. A total of 5778 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction were randomized to early intravenous metoprolol followed by oral treatment for 15 d, or to placebo. Thereafter, the two groups were treated similarly. During a 1-year follow-up period the mortality in patients who were randomized to early metoprolol was 10.6% compared to 10.7% for placebo (P greater than 0.2). Among patients with a higher risk of death, the tendency towards a reduced mortality in the metoprolol group that was observed after 15 d remained similar after 1 year. It is concluded that early intervention with metoprolol in suspected acute myocardial infarction did not improve the long-term prognosis compared to placebo treatment. 
Pediatric Advanced Life Support: Part II. Fluid therapy, medications and dysrhythmias. The first part of this two-part article discussed the equipment needed for pediatric resuscitations and the techniques used for cardiopulmonary assessment, airway securance, circulatory maintenance and intravascular access. In this second part, additional life support measures are reviewed, including fluid therapy, resuscitation medications and the management of cardiac rhythm disturbances. 
Hepatitis B virus infection in patients with idiopathic liver disease. We studied 67 HBsAg-negative Israeli patients (36 negative for all HBV serological markers as group 1 and 31 positive for antibodies to HBs and HBc as group 2) with chronic liver disease and cirrhosis of unknown origin using a rapid, sensitive and specific assay for the detection of low levels of hepatitis B virus in serum. This technique uses a high-affinity monoclonal antibody to HBs against an a domain epitope of HBsAg to capture the virion, followed by hepatitis B virus DNA amplification with the polymerase chain reaction. In addition, 55 subjects without liver disease served as controls: Group 3 (n = 32) was negative for all hepatitis B virus markers; group 4 (n = 23) was positive for antibodies to HBs and HBc. We found 11 individuals in group 1 (31%) and 10 in group 2 (29%) harboring low levels of hepatitis B virus DNA in serum. In contrast, no one in group 3 or group 4 was positive by this technique (p less than 0.0001). Using polymerase chain reaction primers spanning other regions of the hepatitis B virus genome and a method of restriction-fragment analysis of polymerase chain reaction-amplified sequences, we detected significant DNA sequence heterogeneity, suggesting infection with distinct hepatitis B virus strains. DNA extracted from paraffin-embedded liver biopsy specimens of 42 patients from groups 1 and 2 was shown to contain hepatitis B virus DNA by polymerase chain reaction in 11 of 12 patients with circulating virion DNA. More important, 18 additional patients whose sera were negative by HBs-antibody capture/polymerase chain reaction amplification had hepatitis B virus DNA sequences in their livers. 
Effects of DuP 753 on renal function of normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats. This study examined the effects of a new, orally-active, nonpeptide angiotensin II (AII) receptor antagonist, 2-n-butyl-4-chloro-5-hydroxymethyl-1-[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biph eny l-4- yl)methyl] imidazole, DuP 753, on renal function of anesthetized, volume-expanded Wistar Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and in a group of euvolemic Munich-Wistar (MW) rats. Plasma renin activities were similar and averaged 4.4 +/- 0.7 and 4.3 +/- 1.4 ng AI/mL.h, respectively, in the SHR and WKY rats. In WKY rats (n = 15), DuP 753 (2 or 10 mg/kg, intravenously) had no effect on urine flow, sodium excretion, renal blood flow (RBF), or glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Fractional excretion of lithium (FELi) rose from 32 +/- 5 to 40 +/- 4% of the filtered load and arterial pressure decreased slightly from 129 +/- 2 to 122 +/- 2 mm Hg. In SHR (n = 9), urine flow fell 24%, and FELi and RBF increased by 27% and 30%, respectively, after 2 mg/kg DuP 753, but sodium excretion, GFR, and arterial pressure were not significantly altered. A higher dose of DuP 753 (10 mg/kg; n = 8) reduced arterial pressure, urine flow, and sodium excretion in the SHR. RBF increased 34%, while GFR and FELi were not significantly altered. Similar effects were seen in SHR (n = 11), given an equivalent antihypertensive dose of captopril (20 mg/kg). In euvolemic MW rats in which plasma renin activity was elevated to 18.8 +/- 3.3 ng AI/mL.h, DuP 753 (2 mg/kg, n = 7) increased RBF, urine flow, and sodium excretion, while mean arterial pressure and GFR were unaltered. 
Rhabdomyolysis following total hip arthroplasty. We report six cases of contralateral limb involvement during total hip arthroplasty including swelling of the gluteal muscle compartments, rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria, and sciatic nerve palsy. The risk factors for such complications include obesity, prolonged operative time, and positioning in the lateral decubitus position. The laboratory and clinical findings are consistent with a gluteal muscle crush-injury with consequent compartment syndrome. The patients should be treated conservatively as symptoms can be expected to resolve. 
Right atrial extension of an embryonal carcinoma of the testis. A case of embryonal carcinoma of the testis extending into the inferior vena cava and the right atrium is presented. Tumor extension was demonstrated preoperatively by computed axial tomography. Successful resection of the intravascular and right atrial extension was achieved using extracorporeal circulation. It is concluded that intravascular and right atrial extension is not a contraindication to radical surgery. This type of metastasis raises the same therapeutic and prognostic problems as those raised by tumor masses in the lungs or lymph nodes found after chemotherapy for malignant nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis. 
Muscle perfusion with technetium-MIBI in lower extremity peripheral arterial diseases. There have been several methods utilized in the diagnosis or assessment of medical or surgical treatments of peripheral arterial diseases. In this study, the diagnostic value of a new tracer: 99mTc-methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile (MIBI) has been demonstrated in patients with leg claudication. We successively performed muscle perfusion scans in 6 normals and 18 patients with claudication pain during rest and after exercise on the same day. Muscle perfusion abnormalities in all patients were consistent with the defects in the arteries of the affected limbs. The results show that this is a simple and accurate diagnostic procedure and superior to those that have been previously used. 
Severity of coronary artery disease in young patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Cardiovascular events remain a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with juvenile-onset, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. To examine the extent and severity of the atherosclerotic lesions underlying this excess morbidity and mortality, clinical and angiographic findings were examined in 32 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes and in 31 nondiabetic patients, matched for age and symptoms, undergoing elective cardiac catheterization for evaluation of coronary artery disease. With respect to the individuals without diabetes, patients with insulin-dependent diabetes were significantly more likely to have severe narrowings, to have them in all three major coronary arteries, and to have them in distal segments. Severe narrowing of multiple vessels was significantly more common in men than in women and in individuals with hypercholesterolemia. We conclude that the high risk of cardiovascular events observed in young patients with insulin-dependent diabetes is secondary to advanced atherosclerotic lesions in coronary arteries. Involvement of distal segments of coronary arteries make these patients frequently unsuitable for bypass grafts. 
Appropriateness of intrapartum fetal heart rate management and risk of cerebral palsy. Cerebral palsy affects 2 in 1000 infants in the United States, and the intrapartum period is frequently scrutinized as the etiologic source. In a matched group of 49 infants with cerebral palsy at 1 year of age and 49 controls, no difference in the incidence of inappropriate intrapartum fetal heart rate pattern management was detected. This supports the conclusions of others that the intrapartum period is an infrequent source of cerebral palsy. 
Assessment of aortoiliac obstructive disease by Doppler spectrum analysis of blood flow velocities in the common femoral artery at rest and during reactive hyperemia. Aortoiliac obstructive disease was assessed by Doppler spectrum analysis of blood flow velocities in the common femoral artery measured both at rest and during reactive hyperemia. The intraarterial femoral artery pressure measured at rest and during reactive hyperemia served as the "gold standard" for the definition of a hemodynamically significant aortoiliac stenosis. Our results, obtained from 93 patients (136 limbs), showed that differences between Doppler spectra obtained from limbs with a hemodynamically significant aortoiliac stenosis and those from limbs without were more pronounced during reactive hyperemia than at rest. The best assessment of aortoiliac obstructive disease could be obtained with a combination of parameters derived from Doppler spectra measured at rest and during reactive hyperemia. With these parameters, obtained by multivariate analysis, 85% of the limbs were diagnosed correctly compared with the gold standard. If angiographic data were added to the gold standard, even 91% of the limbs were diagnosed correctly. We conclude that analysis of Doppler spectra-obtained noninvasively from the common femoral artery at rest and during reactive hyperemia provides an accurate hemodynamic assessment of the aortoiliac segment. 
Generation of intracellular signals by low density lipoprotein is independent of the classical LDL receptor. Low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and apolipoprotein B-100 (1 to 15 micrograms/mL) had no significant influence on the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) formation in vascular smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts. Low density lipoprotein cholesterol (15 micrograms/mL) induced an elevation of intracellular Ca2+ from 85 to approximately 210 nmol/L in vascular smooth muscle cells from rat aorta in the absence or in the presence of 15 micrograms/mL monoclonal antibodies against the classical low density lipoprotein receptor or in the presence of apolipoprotein B-100. Moreover, in both human cultured fibroblasts from normocholesterolemic individuals and from patients with familial hypercholesterolemia homozygote class 1, LDL induced a dose-dependent rise of free intracellular calcium and a biphasic change of intracellular pH. Since homozygote class 1 fibroblasts are classical LDL receptor negative, and as antibodies against this receptor, as well as apolipoprotein B-100, did not attenuate the LDL-induced elevation of cytosolic calcium, we conclude that LDL might modify vascular activity via the observed intracellular changes without involving the classical low density lipoprotein receptor. 
Patients with duodenitis have gastric secretory and motor functions like those of duodenal ulcer patients: results of a short-term treatment with ranitidine. Gastric acid secretion, gastric emptying of solids, and the effects of short-term treatment with 300 mg ranitidine at bedtime were evaluated in symptomatic patients with endoscopically and histologically proven duodenitis. The patients investigated had basal and pentagastrin-stimulated gastric acid hypersecretion, but normal gastric emptying times. Ranitidine brought about a significant improvement of endoscopic and histological features compared with the pretreatment findings. Endoscopic but not histological improvement was significantly better than with placebo. Furthermore, ranitidine brought about a significant reduction of weekly antacid consumption compared with placebo. Both ranitidine and placebo induced significant symptomatic improvement over basal conditions, but the difference between the two treatments did not reach statistical significance. Gastric secretory and motor functions, as well as the response to therapy, were similar in duodenitis patients with and without previous history of duodenal ulcer; the only exception was in antacid consumption, which was higher in the placebo group in those with past evidence of ulcer disease. Our results suggest that duodenitis patients have secretory and motor functions similar to those of duodenal ulcer patients. Therefore, further trials on large populations of duodenitis patients with antisecretory drugs are justified. 
Pharmacodynamic parameters and toxicity of netilmicin (6 milligrams/kilogram/day) given once daily or in three divided doses to cancer patients with urinary tract infection. The pharmacologic parameters and toxicity of netilmicin (6 mg/kg/day) given once daily (qd) or thrice daily (tid) for the treatment of urinary tract infections were studied in a randomized prospective study of 60 cancer patients. The overall efficacy was 96%. Nephrotoxicity, assessed by the measure of urinary excretion of phospholipids, was lower for the patients receiving the qd regimen than for those receiving the tid regimen. Elevation of serum creatinine (20% over baseline) occurred in one patient receiving the qd regimen and in three receiving the tid regimen. Cochleotoxicity, assessed by pure-tone audiometry (250 to 18,000 Hz) occurred in one patient receiving the qd regimen and none receiving the tid regimen. Concentrations in sera were measured on days 1 and 5. No significant accumulation was observed in either group. Median serum bactericidal titers, expressed as reciprocal values (percentage of the sera with a titer greater than or equal to 8), were measured against 25 test organisms in samples collected 6 h after the administration of netilmicin and were, for the qd group, 16 (82%) against members of the family Enterobacteriaceae and less than 2 (8%) against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and for the tid group, 4 (57%) against members of the Enterobacteriaceae and less than 2 (0%) against P. aeruginosa. The rate of killing in serum was rapid (2 to 3 log in 2 h against P. aeruginosa; 3 to 5 log in 2 h against members of the Enterobacteriaceae) and correlated with the sampling time and hence the concentration in serum of netilmicin. The duration of the postantibiotic effect in serum depended also on the strain and the sampling time of the serum. 
Transrectal US in the diagnosis of localized colitis cystica profunda. Colitis cystica profunda (CCP) mimicks rectal carcinoma, which makes distinguishing this benign lesion from the more common rectal neoplasm clinically and pathologically difficult. When transrectal ultrasound (US) was used in this case, three features of CCP were seen. There were multiple lesions, which did not penetrate beyond the submucosa. A large cystic component was seen, with a layer of uniform thickness in two of the three lesions. Non-solid contents and a lack of infiltration can be visualized at transrectal US, which helps diagnose CCP. 
Intracerebral grafting impedes hippocampal cell loss during withdrawal after long-term alcohol consumption in rats. We previously found that, in the hippocampal formation as well as other central nervous system regions, withdrawal from alcohol following long periods of ingestion did not impede the ethanol-induced degenerative changes, including cell loss: on the contrary, neuronal degeneration was found to be increased in withdrawn rats. By grafting withdrawn rats either with immature hippocampal blocks or with suspensions of cultured astrocytes, we hoped to arrest the process of cell loss or even reverse it, because it is known that grafted material might display trophic and eventually protective effects in conditions of brain damage. The dentate granule and hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells were counted both in the grafted hemisphere and in the contralateral one. Grafts of astrocyte suspensions did not interfere with the ongoing process of cell death in withdrawn rats. Conversely, grafts of hippocampal tissue impeded the degeneration observed in the granule and pyramidal cells of the grafted hemisphere, although in the contralateral one the cell loss persisted. We therefore conclude that the protective effect displayed by solid grafts might be a local process dependent on the release of diffusible trophic agents. We cannot explain the absence of any effect displayed by astroglial grafts, inasmuch as in different experimental situations such an effect was described. 
The treatment of metastatic breast cancer. While metastatic breast cancer is not curable, it is treatable. Its treatment is associated with a relatively high rate of success, and patients are able to maintain a good quality of life for periods ranging from a few months to several years. This knowledge should encourage both the patient and the oncologist to maintain treatment as long as potentially effective therapeutic methods are available. Progress is ongoing both in the development of new forms of treatment and in new ways of using and combining already existing therapeutic modalities. There is still no established "best" or "only" first treatment of metastatic breast cancer. When secondary and later treatment is to be undertaken, the task of selecting the most appropriate treatment becomes even more complex. It is only through controlled clinical trials that useful therapeutic guidelines will develop. Treatment is a joint endeavor involving both the physician and the patient. Communication must remain open. In the final stages of the illness, treatment should be directed toward the relief of distressing symptoms and anxiety. 
The evaluation of patients with human immunodeficiency virus-related disorders and brain mass lesions. In patients at risk for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who present with a mass lesion, a dilemma arises as to whether to treat empirically for toxoplasmosis or perform a brain biopsy. We present data that further define the indications for performing brain biopsy vs empiric treatment. We reviewed charts on 59 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome--related disorders and cerebral mass lesions. Thirty-two patients met diagnostic criteria for toxoplasmosis. Bayesian analysis demonstrated that the prior probability of toxoplasmosis was increased by the presence of contrast enhancement on computed tomographic scans (0.68) and toxoplasmosis titers greater than 1:64 (0.81). Features associated with decreasing probabilities of toxoplasmosis included the absence of contrast enhancement on computed tomographic scans (0.29) and toxoplasmosis titers less than or equal to 1:64 (0.14). Ten percent of patients had complications of brain biopsy. Treatment with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine produced complications in 29% and serious complications in 8% of treated patients. These data favor empiric therapy for patients with typical features of toxoplasmosis and brain biopsy for defined subsets of patients with atypical features. 
Long-term patency of the aortofemoral Dacron graft. A graft limb related study over a 25-years period. Graft limb patency was studied retrospectively in a consecutive series of 912 patients (1605 limbs), who received an aorto(bi)femoral Dacron graft for occlusive disease over a 25 years period (1963-1987). The mean follow-up for the series was 5.35 years (range 1 month to 23 years) and 18.5% of the patients were followed for at least 10 years. Primary patency decreased progressively to 83% at 10 years and 77% at 15 years. It was significantly improved to 90% (at 10 years) and 84% (at 15 years) by means of operative thrombectomy (secondary patency). Factors influencing patency (univariate analysis) were (1) concomitant femoropopliteal occlusive disease, (2) the site of the femoral anastomosis and (3) the date of the operation. Multivariate analysis in relation to the femoral anastomosis stressed the importance of profunda femoris artery disease and the date of operation. It is concluded that the negative effects of concomitant superficial femoral artery disease may be completely relieved by an adequate profundaplasty. Furthermore the substantial progress, we documented over the years of the study, supports our view that aortofemoral reconstruction may also be offered as the solution of choice to patients with milder forms of claudication. 
A history of boron neutron capture therapy of brain tumours. Postulation of a brain radiation dose tolerance limit. Boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) is a form of radiation therapy mediated by the short-range (less than 10 microns) energetic alpha (4He) and lithium-7 (7Li) ionizing particles that result from the prompt disintegration by slow neutrons of the stable (nonradioactive) nucleus boron-10 (10B). Recent advances in radiobiological and toxicological evaluation of tumour-affinitive boron-containing drugs and in optimization of the energies of neutrons in the incident beam have spurred interest in BNCT. This article presents a history of BNCT that emphasizes studies in the USA. A new dosimetric analysis of the 1959-1961 clinical trials of BNCT at Brookhaven National Laboratory is also presented. This analysis yields an acute radiation dose tolerance limit estimate of approximately 10 Gy-Eq to the capillary endothelium of human basal ganglia from BNCT. (Gy-Eq: Gray-equivalent, or relative biological effectiveness of a radiation component multiplied by the physical dose of the component (Gy), summed over the component kinds of radiation.). 
Primary squamous cell carcinoma of a gastric remnant. A 77-yr-old male developed primary gastric squamous cell carcinoma 33 yr after gastric resection for peptic ulcer disease. At the time of diagnosis, he was being endoscopically followed for large irregular stomal polyps. Infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma with focal keratinization and stomal polypoid hypertrophic gastritis was found. Previous reports describe adenocarcinoma and adenosquamous carcinoma in gastric remnants. There are various theories as to how such a tumor may arise in this setting. 
Intra-articular fractures of the distal part of the radius treated with the small AO external fixator. Thirty adults who had a severely comminuted intra-articular closed fracture of the distal part of the radius were treated by closed reduction and AO external fixation consisting of a converging-pin configuration with a double row of connecting bars. The patients were followed for an average of 2.6 years (range, two to four years). Twenty-seven patients had an excellent result; two, a good result; and one, a poor result, on the basis of pain, motion, strength, and radiographic appearance. Complications were rare, and there was no loss of fixation of the pins. The average grip strength was 92 per cent of normal. Motion of the wrist and rotation of the forearm averaged more than 90 per cent of that of the normal side. Carpal height was used as an indicator of distraction force produced by the fixator. There was an average increase in carpal height of four millimeters initially and 3.7 millimeters immediately before removal of the fixator, indicating near-constant distraction throughout the treatment. Radial length was well maintained, with shortening averaging less than one millimeter. The converging pins of the AO fixator prevent loosening, thereby diminishing the risks of infection, loss of reduction of the fracture, and breakage of the pins. This geometry of the pins allows the use of smaller-diameter (2.5-millimeter) pins and provides rigid fixation, even in osteoporotic bone. 
Spontaneous pneumomediastinum. A report of 25 cases. Spontaneous pneumomediastinum (SPM) is a relatively uncommon, infrequently reported entity. To determine the clinical presentation and sequelae of SPM, data were obtained from 25 patients: 14 from Hadassah University Hospital, and 11 from other medical institutions. The mean age was 18.8 +/- 5.2 years (+/- SD), with a range of 8 to 31 years. The most common presenting complaint was retrosternal pain in 22 patients (88 percent), dyspnea in 15 (60 percent), dysphagia in 10 (40 percent), and weakness in 10 (40 percent). Predisposing factors for the development of SPM could be identified in 18 patients (72 percent). Information on the sequelae of SPM during a mean period of 87.4 +/- 38.0 months following the initial SPM episode was obtained from 23 patients. Recurrent SPM occurred in 1 patient at 18 months, and another patient experienced 4 episodes of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax. No other long-term sequelae were reported. We conclude that SPM is a benign self-limited disease with diverse clinical manifestations. Although uncommon, recurrences of SPM may be observed. 
Traumatic pericallosal aneurysm in a patient with no major trauma. Case report. The case of a young woman who developed a traumatic distal anterior cerebral artery ("pericallosal") aneurysm from a roller-coaster ride is described. She presented with a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) restricted to the interhemispheric fissure. The initial angiogram was normal but repeat angiography at 8 days revealed the aneurysm. After craniotomy and clipping the patient made a satisfactory recovery. This is the only reported case of a traumatic aneurysm arising under circumstances not usually considered as trauma. It raises questions about the pathophysiology of the formation of such aneurysms and suggests that traumatic pericallosal aneurysms should be considered in SAH of unknown etiology. This case provides further evidence that repeat angiography occasionally helps reveal an aneurysm when the initial study fails to do so. 
Hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in systemic sclerosis and primary pulmonary hypertension. Reduction of pulmonary vascular resistance by a high inspired oxygen concentration is a common, but not universal phenomenon in patients with pulmonary vascular disease of varying etiology that may determine their response to long-term domiciliary oxygen therapy. We therefore determined changes in PVR during oxygen therapy in two patient populations not previously studied: systemic sclerosis (n = 8, mean age +/- SEM, 44.5 +/- 5.4 years) and primary pulmonary hypertension (n = 7, mean age +/- SEM 38 +/- 7.8 years). All patients were hypoxemic (arterial oxygen tension, on air 9.5 +/- 1.2 kPa for SSc and 8.3 +/- 0.6 kPa for PPH, p greater than 0.05). Right atrial pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary artery occlusion pressure, systemic arterial pressure, PaO2 and cardiac output by thermodilution were measured at three, 20-min intervals while inspiring air and again after inspiring 60 percent oxygen for 30 min. The PVR fell significantly with oxygen in patients with SSc from 797.6 +/- 179.2 to 610 +/- 151.6 dynes/s/cm-5 (p less than 0.01), and this fall correlated with baseline PAP and PaO2 prior to oxygen therapy (r = 0.86, p less than 0.025; r = 0.77, p less than 0.05, respectively). In patients with PPH, there was no significant fall in PVR with oxygen (from 969 +/- 80.2 to 851.9 +/- 91.2 dynes/s/cm-5, p greater than 0.05) and no predictor of a vasodilator response in individual patients. In SSc, hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction contributes more consistently to elevated PVR than in patients with PPH. 
Quantification of cervical change: relationship to preterm delivery in the multifetal gestation. Prematurity is the major contributor to the very high perinatal morbidity and mortality associated with multifetal gestations. Antepartum cervical evaluation has been suggested as a way to better define the risk of preterm delivery in multifetal gestations. Weekly digital cervical examinations were performed in 86 twin and 7 triplet gestations that were being monitored in a special antepartum clinic. A cervical score was calculated from each examination by subtracting cervical dilatation in centimeters from cervical length in centimeters. Cervical scores decline gradually with advancing gestation and are influenced by parity and subsequent preterm delivery. Intervals until delivery decrease significantly with lower cervical scores. A cervical score less than or equal to 0 on or before 34 weeks' gestation was strongly predictive of preterm delivery (75%). Only 2 of 78 (2.6%) with a score greater than 0 were delivered within 1 week of the examination. Cervical scoring is a simple, quantifiable, reproducible, and safe method of evaluating preterm delivery risk. An understanding of the prognostic significance of specific cervical scores may be of value in determining the need for obstetric intervention. 
Nitrogen mustard, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone as adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of medulloblastoma. A Pediatric Oncology Group study. In a randomized postoperative trial, adjuvant post-irradiation chemotherapy, consisting of nitrogen mustard, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP), was tested versus radiation therapy alone for newly diagnosed medulloblastoma in patients between 1 and 21 years of age. Patients treated with irradiation plus MOPP had a statistically significant increase in overall survival rate at 5 years posttreatment compared to patients treated with radiation therapy alone (74% vs. 56%; p = 0.06, adjusted for race and gender). Although the overall study failed to show a statistically significant advantage for irradiation plus MOPP in event-free survival (p = 0.18), statistical significance was attained in children 5 years of age or older (p = 0.05). More severe hematological toxicities occurred in the group with irradiation plus MOPP; however, this hematotoxicity appeared to be tolerable and acceptable. These results suggest that patients may benefit from combined irradiation and chemotherapy following surgery for medulloblastoma. 
Motor variables correlated with the hand-to-mouth maneuver in stroke patients. This study investigated the relationship between each of three independent variables and the completion of the hand-to-mouth maneuver in 23 hemiparetic stroke patients. The independent variables were elbow-extensor muscle tone (graded using the Modified Ashworth Scale); active elbow-flexion range-of-motion deficit measured without the influence of gravity; and elbow-flexion strength measured without the influence of gravity with a hand-held dynamometer. The hand-to-mouth maneuver was graded according to the degree of completion using a three-level ordinal scale. Spearman (rs) correlations demonstrated a significant relationship between the extent of completion of the hand-to-mouth maneuver and both the active elbow-flexion-range deficit (rs = -.853) and the elbow-flexor muscle force (rs = .829). The correlation of the maneuver with elbow-extensor muscle tone (rs = -.063) was not significant, but the relationship may have been influenced by the fact that only a minority of subjects had elevated tone, and that elevation was minimal. The result suggest that both active-movement deficits and muscle strength may be important to upper extremity function. 
Imaging of metastatic colorectal cancer with tumour-activated killer lymphocytes. Adoptive immunotherapy may be useful for treating or visualising metastatic cancer. Lymphocytes were taken from 6 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and cultured with cells from the patients primary tumour to produce tumour-activated killer (TAK) lymphocytes. We re-injected each patient with IIIIn-labelled TAK cells in order to visualise metastases. Images were taken with a gamma-camera for up to 48 h after injection. Metastases were revealed as early as 4 h in the lung and as late as 48 h in the abdomen. Liver images produced "cold" spots corresponding to metastatic lesions. Lymph nodes were not visualised. Re-injection of TAK cells raised against autologous colorectal tumours reveals the sites of metastases. 
The rectus abdominis free flap in head and neck reconstruction. The rectus abdominis musculocutaneous free flap, based on the deep inferior epigastric artery and vein, has been used widely in reconstruction of the breast and extremities. The number of reports on its applications in the head and neck is limited. The rectus abdominis free flap is one of the most versatile soft-tissue flaps. The deep inferior epigastric artery and vein are long, large-diameter vessels that are ideal for microvascular anastomoses. The area of skin that can be transferred is probably the largest of all flaps presently in use. The versatility of this donor site is due to the ability to transfer large areas of skin with varying thicknesses and varying amounts of underlying muscle. We have successfully used this flap in 15 consecutive patients to reconstruct defects of the neck, face, mouth, pharynx, skull base, and scalp. No major complications involving either the recipient or donor sites occurred. The literature on the use of the rectus abdominis flap in head and neck reconstruction is reviewed in detail. The advantages and disadvantages of this soft-tissue free flap are thoroughly discussed in an effort to better define its proper place among the reconstructive options available to the head and neck surgeon. 
Fibroblast cell interactions with human melanoma cells affect tumor cell growth as a function of tumor progression. It is known from a variety of experimental systems that the ability of tumor cells to grow locally and metastasize can be affected by the presence of adjacent normal tissues and cells, particularly mesenchymally derived stromal cells such as fibroblasts. However, the comparative influence of such normal cell-tumor cell interactions on tumor behavior has not been thoroughly investigated from the perspective of different stages of tumor progression. To address this question we assessed the influence of normal dermal fibroblasts on the growth of human melanoma cells obtained from different stages of tumor progression. We found that the in vitro growth of most (4 out of 5) melanoma cell lines derived from early-stage radial growth phase or vertical growth phase metastatically incompetent primary lesions is repressed by coculture with normal dermal fibroblasts, suggesting that negative homeostatic growth controls are still operative on melanoma cells from early stages of disease. On the other hand, 9 out of 11 melanoma cell lines derived from advanced metastatically competent vertical growth phase primary lesions, or from distant metastases, were found to be consistently stimulated to grow in the presence of dermal fibroblasts. Evidence was obtained to show that this discriminatory fibroblastic influence is mediated by soluble inhibitory and stimulatory growth factor(s). Taken together, these results indicate that fibroblast-derived signals can have antithetical growth effects on metastatic versus metastatically incompetent tumor subpopulations. This resultant conversion in responsiveness to host tissue environmental factors may confer upon small numbers of metastatically competent cells a growth advantage, allowing them to escape local growth constraints both in the primary tumor site and at distant ectopic tissue sites. 
Borrelia rhombencephalomyelopathy. Three patients, in whom the diagnosis of Borrelia burgdorferi infection was unknown for several years, developed a biphasic involvement of the central nervous system: an acute brain-stem dysfunction was followed up, in two patients, by a progressive, disabling myelitis and, in one patient, by further relapsing-remitting episodes of severe multifocal rhombencephalitis. The most consistent cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities in the analysis of sequential specimens were elevated total IgM levels that normalized after penicillin therapy. The neuropathologic findings in one patient showed microgliosis and meningovascular involvement of the central nervous system, resulting in two ischemic infarcts in the myelencephalon. Few spirochetes were localized in the leptomeninges and around subependymal vessels of the fourth ventricle. The vascular element consisted of an obliterative inflammatory vasculopathy in the medullary parenchyma. This study (1) provides pathologic evidence that a vascular disease induced by B burgdorferi is a pathogenetic mechanism for cerebrovascular diseases, and (2) emphasizes the similarities between neuroborreliosis and neurosyphilis. 
Thallium myocardial scintigraphy in congenitally-corrected transposition of the great arteries. A case of congenitally-corrected transposition of the great arteries is presented with the correlation of thallium scintigraphic results with catheterization data. The essential features of the thallium scintigrams were marked counterclockwise rotation of the heart with perfusion abnormalities of the inferior wall and apex. Since patients with congenitally-corrected transposition of the great arteries may present with the symptom of chest pain, the diagnosis of transposition of the great arteries should be considered in patients with marked counterclockwise rotation of the heart and segmental perfusion abnormalities on thallium scintigraphy. 
Chemical peritonitis associated with intraperitoneal vancomycin. A case of chemical peritonitis associated with intraperitoneal vancomycin is reported. A 23-year-old woman presented with signs and symptoms consistent with a chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis catheter exit-site infection. Intraperitoneal vancomycin (Vancoled) 1 g was given, followed by 25 mg/L into each subsequent exchange. On day 4 the patient developed abdominal pain and cloudy dialysis effluent. The vancomycin was discontinued, and the dialysate cleared by day 8. Fluid cultures were negative, and Staphylococcus aureus was isolated from the exit site. Subsequent intravenous vancomycin, and smaller intraperitoneal doses, failed to repeat the event. Fluid and serum white blood cell count, serum immunoglobulins and complement, culture results, and the temporal relationship are strongly suggestive of a vancomycin-induced chemical peritonitis. 
Preparing children for venous blood sampling. A convenience sample of 100 children, aged 6-12 years, attending Kuwait government hospital laboratories for venous blood sampling was studied. A picture book was used to prepare half of the children for the procedure. Preparation was carried out just prior to sampling and took less than 5 min. The story provided a simple description of venous blood sampling, and why it is carried out; it stressed that the pain is noticeable but not unbearable, and that children will experience less pain if they relax their arm and cooperate with the technician. Prepared children reported significantly less pain, and radial pulse rates confirmed that they were less distressed by the procedure. Observers' and parents' evaluations also indicated that prepared children coped better. Various explanations for the benefits observed are discussed, together with requirements for managing the pain, fear and stress experienced by children during medical treatment. 
Metastatic properties of the human prostatic cell line, PPC-1, in athymic nude mice. Limitation in the number of human prostatic cell lines has created a gap in knowledge regarding the in-vivo progression of this common cancer. The recently isolated primary prostatic carcinoma cell line, PPC-1, has been shown to be tumorigenic in athymic nude mice. These cells are now shown to form metastases to secondary sites in 10 of 12 animals in this initial study. Metastases were localized to lung and lymph nodes, and the tumor histology closely resembled that of the undifferentiated, rapidly dividing primary tumors. This is the first report describing the metastatic properties of a primary prostatic cancer cell line. PPC-1 cells are therefore likely to represent a good model system for the study of human prostate cancer progression. 
Accordion right coronary artery: an unusual complication of PTCA guidewire entrapment. The contour of the epicardial coronary vessels may change considerably during coronary angioplasty. We report the extreme and unique "accordion-like" wrinkling of the mid right coronary artery as a result of distal guidewire entrapment during coronary angioplasty. Recognition of this artifact and its treatment may prevent further complications of coronary angioplasty. 
Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator: current concepts and guidelines for clinical use in acute myocardial infarction. Part II. The extraordinarily high prevalence of coronary heart disease, coupled with the alarming incidence of MI in Western society, has encouraged the investigation and development of pharmacologic agents that can be employed widely, quickly, effectively, and safely. Recombinant t-PA has played a vital role in the treatment of MI, restoring coronary arterial patency, limiting infarct size, preserving ventricular function, and improving patient survival. It has been shown to be safe when given to carefully selected patients and, although indications for clinical use have been relatively restricted, they appear to be expanding considerably. Future investigations must continue to focus on patient selection to allow treatment for all patients who would derive benefit and to establish dosing regimens and adjuvant therapies that will maximize coronary reperfusion while concomitantly limiting reocclusion and hemorrhagic complications. 
Acute multifocal inner retinitis. Two patients developed acute changes in vision two to four weeks after a febrile illness. On ophthalmic examination, each patient had bilateral vitreitis without anterior segment inflammation and multiple, bilateral, round, yellow-white inner retinal lesions that were located in the posterior pole and midperiphery. Laboratory tests did not contribute to a diagnosis. Symptomatic visual loss was caused by neuroretinitis and serous retinal detachment in one patient and by an occluded branch retinal artery in the other. The multifocal retinal lesions resolved gradually without treatment over several months with minimal or no residual retinal changes. Acute multifocal inner retinal lesions may be associated with a preceding nonspecific viral illness and may cause a sudden change in vision if associated with neuroretinitis, serous retinal detachment, or retinal vessel occlusion. We have termed this constellation of ophthalmic findings acute multifocal inner retinitis. 
Lumbar intervertebral foramens. An in vitro study of their shape in relation to intervertebral disc pathology. The lumbar intervertebral foramens of 20 isolated cadaveric spines were investigated by the use of a molding technique to assess their dimensions accurately and how intervertebral disc pathology altered their configuration. Oval foramens predominated over auricularly shaped foramens when the disc was normal, but when the disc was abnormal, the converse was true. Foraminal size varied from 40 to 160 mm2 but showed great variation even at individual levels; these were not accurately reflected by simple radiologic measurements. 
Residential arrangements for adults with cerebral palsy--California, 1988. In the United States, an estimated 274,000 persons have cerebral palsy (CP), a neurologic condition defined as a group of nonprogressive disorders in which an abnormality of the central nervous system can result in motor dysfunction (e.g., paresis, involuntary movement, and incoordination). CP is the third leading cause of the need for assistance with basic life activities and the fifth leading cause of activity limitation. An adult with CP may require adaptive housing to improve accessibility (e.g., to entrances and toilet facilities), attendant care to assist with activities of daily living, and/or nursing care to meet specific health-care needs. These needs can be met through a variety of residential accommodations. However, because the residential environment has a considerable impact on well-being and quality of life, the accommodations should be in the least restrictive environment and, when possible, community-based. This report summarizes an assessment of characteristics of adults with CP to determine which factors are associated with placement in a more restrictive environment. 
Preoperative clinical evaluation as a predictor of cardiac complications after infrarenal aortic reconstruction. This paper analyses cardiac risk factors in 93 consecutive patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction over a 2 year period. During the perioperative or postoperative period, 26 patients sustained a total of 42 cardiac complications. Eight patients had myocardial infarction, 14 left ventricular failure and 15 arrhythmias. There were five cardiac-related deaths. Angina was the only statistically significant risk factor in predicting postoperative cardiac problems. A multivariate analysis identified a high-risk group of patients in whom cardiac complications after operation were common. 
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy for metabolic characterization of plaques in multiple sclerosis. We are investigating the potential of in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy for noninvasive characterization of the chemical pathology of plaques in magnetic resonance brain images from patients with multiple sclerosis. Spectra localized to chronic, irreversible plaques showed a decrease in the ratio of N-acetyl/creatine resonance intensities relative to normal-appearing white matter. Spectra localized to active plaques showed different metabolite changes as compared with spectra from identical, plaque-free volumes in the contralateral hemispheres. Some active plaques showed either no abnormalities or only an increase in tissue lactate. Spectra from others showed an increased ratio of choline/creatine resonance intensities, with or without a decreased N-acetyl/creatine resonance intensity ratio. In one case, serial observations showed an evolution of changes in spectra from a single plaque from an increased choline/creatine ratio to a decreased N-acetyl/creatine ratio. These observations suggest that proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy may be able to distinguish acute or active from chronic plaques and to characterize the pathologic evolution of active plaques by measurement of local tissue metabolite levels. 
Experience with indeterminate mammograms. Most radiologists recommend follow-up mammography in 3 to 6 months for asymptomatic patients with mammographic lesions that do not appear suspicious enough to warrant immediate biopsy. In this retrospective cohort study, the medical records of 776 patients were audited 24 to 35 months after mammography to estimate the frequency of indeterminate lesions, the probability of malignancy, and the rate of patients' compliance with recommendations. Almost 2% of patients retested after an indeterminate mammogram were found to have breast cancer (95% confidence limits 0.2% and 5.9%). Only 26% of the patients retested during the audit period had the test within the suggested upper limit of 6 months. We conclude that timely follow-up after an indeterminate mammogram is advisable and that for the population we studied, compliance with this recommendation is low. 
The role of sustained achlorhydria in bleeding peptic ulcer. Twenty-five patients with bleeding peptic ulcers were randomized to receive either ranitidine 50 mg 8 hourly i.v. (control group) or a continuous nasogastric antacid infusion at the rate of 0.5 ml/min along with an i.v. injection of cimetidine 100 mg/h (treatment group). Twelve patients were included in the control group and 13 in the treatment group. The mean gastric pH on therapy was significantly higher in the treatment group (7.88 +/- 0.37) than in the control group (5.00 +/- 0.55) (p less than 0.001), and the gastric pH was noted to be greater than 7 on 95% of the occasions in the treatment group and on 8.6% of the occasions in the control group. An overall control of bleeding was achieved in 92.3% of the patients in the treatment group and 50% of the patients in the control group (p less than .05). Thus, the failure of therapy was significantly more common in the control group than in the treatment group (p less than 0.05), and more patients of the control group had to undergo emergency surgery than that in the treatment group. None of the patients in the treatment group, but 16.6% of the patients in the control group, died during the study period in the hospital stay. We conclude that in patients with bleeding peptic ulcer an intensive medical therapy comprising hourly injections of cimetidine (or presumably of other H2 blockers) and continuous nasogastric antacid infusion can achieve sustained achlorhydria, better control of bleeding, and reduce the need for emergency surgery. 
Experience with a third-generation implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. A Medtronic 7216A pacemaker cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted in 16 patients (mean age 56 years) with sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF) and organic heart disease with a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 33%. Endocardial and epicardial defibrillation shock efficacy was evaluated before or at implant using 1 to 3 shock patterns, i.e., monophasic single, sequential or simultaneous shocks with dual and triple electrode configurations. Endocardial leads used a common right ventricular cathode and dual anodes, whereas epicardial leads used 2 or 3 helical coil patches. VT termination was evaluated using pacing or shock therapy, or both, whereas only shocks were used in VF. Programmable bradycardia pacing, individual zones for VT and VF detection and individualized pacing and shock therapy for VT and VF were used. Monophasic shocks had epicardial defibrillation thresholds ranging from 3 to 18 (mean 10) J and were comparable for sequential and simultaneous shocks (p greater than 0.2). VT detection rates ranged from 340 to 470 ms and VF detection rates from 270 to 330 ms. VT or VF induction, or both, was performed noninvasively in 13 patients after implant and was reproducibly terminated by rapid pacing alone (5 patients), low-energy shocks (2 patients), high-energy shocks (3 patients) and combined therapy (3 patients). Intermediate or high-energy shocks terminated all induced VF episodes. During follow-up (2 to 12 months), there have been 2 noncardiac deaths. Electrical therapy was delivered in 7 patients, for VT (3 patients), VT and VF (3 patients) and indeterminate tachyarrhythmia (1 patient). All VT/VF episodes were successfully terminated, with 78 of 96 (81%) spontaneous VT episodes terminated by pacing. Follow-up reprogramming was required in 5 patients. It is concluded that successful application of individualized electrical therapy prescriptions in patients with VT/VF is feasible. Pacing therapies, which are effective for induced VT, can be reliably used for effective long-term spontaneous VT termination in conjunction with shock therapy and can permit reduced patient exposure to shock therapy. Thus, a programmable hybrid pacemaker cardioverter-defibrillator system provides nonthoracotomy implantation, effective VT/VF termination, demand ventricular pacing and noninvasive modes for arrhythmia induction, event monitoring and clinical trouble-shooting. 
Effects of sucralfate, lansoprazole, and cimetidine on the delayed healing by hydrocortisone sodium phosphate of chronic gastric ulcers in the rat. We have previously shown that chronic sucralfate ingestion stimulates gastric epithelial proliferation in rats, which may explain one of the beneficial effects of sucralfate in healing of peptic ulcers. In a separate study, we have found that chronic steroid administration delays the healing of experimental gastric ulcers in rats. This study was designed to test the beneficial effects of sucralfate, cimetidine, and lansoprazole (AG-1749, a new proton pump inhibitor), on the delayed healing by steroids in rat chronic gastric ulcers. Chronic gastric ulcers were produced in male Wistar rats, weighing 180 g, by the application of 100% acetic acid. The rats were randomly divided into five groups; (1) control, (2) vehicle alone, (3) 10 mg/kg lansoprazole, (4) 500 mg/kg sucralfate, and (5) 100 mg/kg cimetidine. Except for controls, all rats received daily intraperitoneal injections of 2.5 mg/kg hydrocortisone sodium phosphate. Tested drugs were administered intragastrically (lansoprazole and sucralfate) or intraperitoneally (cimetidine) twice a day for 2 weeks. Rats were sacrificed 14 days later and ulcer size was measured. Chronic administration of hydrocortisone sodium phosphate resulted in a significant delay of ulcer healing induced by acetic acid. Treatment with either lansoprazole or sucralfate abolished the deleterious effect of steroids, whereas cimetidine had no effect. These results indicate that lansoprazole and sucralfate overcome the delayed healing by steroids of chronic gastric ulcers in the rat. 
Sonography of the gallbladder: significance of striated (layered) thickening of the gallbladder wall. Sonographic identification of thickening of the gallbladder wall that consists of multiple striations (alternate hypoechoic and hyperechoic layers) has been considered strong evidence of the presence of acute cholecystitis. We studied 27 patients in whom sonograms showed striated thickening of the gallbladder wall to determine the diagnostic significance of this finding. Striations were classified as focal or diffuse. Sonograms were correlated with pathologic findings in 16 patients and with clinical diagnoses and laboratory findings in 11. Patients were categorized as having cholecystitis with or without gangrene or edema of the gallbladder wall unrelated to gallbladder disease. Striated thickening of the gallbladder wall was due to cholecystitis in 10 patients, and all 10 had gangrenous changes at surgery or at pathologic examination. Striations were focal in eight of these patients and diffuse in two. Striated thickening of the gallbladder wall was due to edema of the wall unrelated to gallbladder disease in 17 patients. Causes included congestive heart failure (n = 4), renal failure (n = 5), liver disease (hepatic failure [n = 1], hepatitis [n = 6]), ascites (n = 2), hypoalbuminemia (n = 3), pancreatitis (n = 1), blockage of the lymphatic/venous drainage of the gallbladder (n = 2), and prominent Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses (n = 1). More than one abnormality was present in five patients. Striations were focal in 11 of these patients and diffuse in six. The sonographic finding of striated gallbladder wall thickening is no more specific for cholecystitis than the observation of gallbladder wall thickening by itself, and it may occur in a variety of diseases. However, in the clinical setting of acute cholecystitis, the presence of striations suggests gangrenous changes in the gallbladder. The extent of the striations (focal or diffuse) is not useful in predicting the cause of the striated gallbladder wall thickening. 
A prospective, randomized evaluation of intensive-course 5-fluorouracil plus doxorubicin as surgical adjuvant chemotherapy for resected gastric cancer. This study evaluated combined 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and doxorubicin as postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy for patients who had undergone potentially curative resection of a primary gastric adenocarcinoma. One hundred twenty-five eligible and evaluable patients were stratified according to extent of surgical resection, location of the primary tumor within the stomach, and lymph node status. They were then randomized to either receive three cycles of chemotherapy or be observed. The median time from patient entry was 7 years. Results showed no significant difference in time to recurrence. The 5-year survival rate was 33% for the observation arm and 32% for the adjuvant therapy arm. The data excluded a 16% improvement in the 5-year survival rate for patients receiving chemotherapy with a P value less than 0.05. There were two drug-related fatalities due to sepsis. These results demonstrate no substantive benefit for this chemotherapy regimen as postoperative adjuvant treatment of resected gastric cancer. 
Effects of nitrous oxide on coronary pressure and regional contractile function in experimental myocardial ischemia. To determine whether nitrous oxide (N2O) worsens myocardial ischemia by diminishing coronary pressure, we performed two sets of experiments using an acutely instrumented swine model of regional coronary ischemia. In constant pressure experiments (n = 11), coronary pressure and heart rate were kept constant as N2O (77%-79%) was substituted for N2 in the inspired gas. Nitrous oxide decreased systolic shortening, measured by sonomicrometry, from 68.0% to 63.6% (P less than 0.05) of preischemic control values in the ischemic zone and from 116.2% to 103.2% (P less than 0.05) of control values in the adjacent normal myocardium. There was no disproportionate effect of N2O on ischemic myocardium, and the N2O-induced depression of contractile function was fully reversible. In a series of constant external stenosis experiments (n = 13), the effects of N2O on heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and the coronary stenosis itself were not controlled. In these experiments, substitution of N2O for N2 induced deterioration in both the ischemic zone (systolic shortening decreased from 68.7% to 58.4% of preischemic control values, P less than 0.05) and in the adjacent normal myocardium (systolic shortening decreased from 113% to 102.9% of preischemic control, P less than 0.05). Nitrous-oxide-induced ischemic zone contractile dysfunction was often not reversible. The pressure gradient across the coronary stenosis did not increase and peripheral coronary pressure did not decrease because of N2O. Diffusion hypoxia was also excluded. This study confirms that N2O has a significant but mild depressant effect on the performance of both normal and ischemic myocardium. 
Long-term benzodiazepine users 3 years after participation in a discontinuation program. OBJECTIVE: Clinical status and use of benzodiazepines and other psychotropic drugs at follow-up were assessed in patients who had been chronically dependent on benzodiazepines and had been referred for participation in a discontinuation study. METHOD: Of 123 benzodiazepine-dependent patients screened for entry into a tapered discontinuation program, 48 had completed the program, 38 had not, and 37 had not undergone drug tapering. Follow-up information was obtained through a structured telephone interview and a mail questionnaire that included a global severity scale assessing anxiety and depression and the Hopkins Symptom Checklist. The time to follow-up was 2.7-5.0 years, and the mean +/- SD interval between screening and follow-up was 2.9 +/- 0.9 years. RESULTS: Outcome at follow-up significantly favored the patients who had completed the discontinuation program; 73% were not using benzodiazepines, compared to 39% in the unsuccessful taper group and 14% in the no-taper group. Moderate or marked anxiety was still reported by 35% of the patients who were taking benzodiazepines and 25% of those who were not. At follow-up, 22% of the patients were being treated with nonbenzodiazepine psychotropic agents, primarily antidepressants. CONCLUSIONS: The high percentage of patients who were benzodiazepine-free at follow-up and the continued anxiety and depression present in many patients suggest that some patients may have been taking benzodiazepines because of chronic or recurrent anxiety or depression, not physical dependence. 
The specific activity of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in disseminated intravascular coagulation with acute promyelocytic leukemia. In disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) in the absence of severe infection, marked fibrinolysis was noted in comparison with normal levels of antithrombin III, which is a major inhibitor of the coagulation system. Increased plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) antigen levels in plasma from patients with septicemia decreased the ratio of the plasma clot lysis rate induced by an anti-alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor monoclonal antibody to the tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) concentration. This decrease was not as prominent in plasma from patients with DIC, especially those with APL. To explore the character of PAI-1 in these plasmas, we measured the specific activity of PAI-1 by determining the ratio of active PAI-1 antigen to t-PA-unbound PAI-1 antigen. To calculate the amount of active PAI-1 antigen, the amount of t-PA/PAI-1 complex before and after the addition of a fixed amount of t-PA to the sample was measured by a sandwich solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using anti-PAI-1 and anti-t-PA monoclonal antibodies. The assay to measure total PAI-1 antigen used three monoclonal anti-PAI-1 antibodies and had similar sensitivities to free active, latent, vitronectin-bound and t-PA-bound PAI-1. The specific activity of PAI-1 decreased in patients with DIC (43.7% +/- 30.6%) and in DIC cases with APL (10.3% +/- 6.0%) in comparison to patients with septicemia (83.7% +/- 20.2%) or normal controls (85.8% +/- 27.3%). In DIC associated with APL, degraded forms of PAI-1 were detected in plasma by immunoblotting. These results suggest that a decrease in the specific activity of PAI-1 and an increase in secondary fibrinolysis result in a hyperfibrinolytic state in DIC patients with APL. 
Ki-1+ anaplastic large-cell lymphoma of T-cell origin in an HIV-infected patient. Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) are part of the spectrum of disease associated with HIV infection. However, there are only occasional reports of NHL of T-cell origin in HIV-infected patients. A previously asymptomatic HIV-infected man, who was seronegative for human T-lymphotropic virus type I antibodies, developed a high-grade peripheral T-cell lymphoma of anaplastic large-cell type which was Ki-1 + (CD30 +), HLA-DR+, epithelial membrane antigen +, CD25 +, CD71 +, CD2 + and CD5 +. Pan-B markers CD19 and CD22 and histiocytic marker CD68 were negative. At diagnosis the patient had 0.3 x 10(9)/l T-helper lymphocytes. The response to chemotherapy was dramatic and the patient is alive and disease-free 18 months after treatment. A review of previously described peripheral T-cell lymphomas in HIV-positive individuals is performed, and we conclude that the spectrum of neoplasms in such cases is probably broader than originally thought. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to superior mesenteric artery to duodenum fistula: rare complication of metastatic lung carcinoma. Although metastases from primary carcinoma of the lung to the small intestine appear to be more common than previously suspected, they rarely produce symptoms. Such metastases may present as bowel perforations. Overt gastrointestinal bleeding has been described only as a prelude to perforation. We describe the case of a 55-yr-old man with carcinoma of the lung that had metastasized to the brain and to the third part of the duodenum. The duodenal metastasis presented with massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The metastasis was seen to be actively bleeding at endoscopy, and a direct fistula from a branch of the superior mesenteric artery to the third part of the duodenum was shown angiographically. Arterial invasion and destruction by tumor was confirmed at postmortem examination. This complication of metastatic carcinoma of the lung has not been previously described in the English literature. 
Effects of exercise on heart rate, QT, QTc and QT/QS2 in the Romano-Ward inherited long QT syndrome. Patients with the Romano-Ward inherited long QT syndrome have an incompletely defined cardiac sympathetic system abnormality, and exhibit ventricular arrhythmias during exercise, fear and anxiety. Treadmill and bicycle exercise were used to modulate cardiac autonomic activity in 27 Romano-Ward subjects and 27 normal controls. The heart rate, and the QT, QTc and QT/QS2 (ratio of electrical to mechanical systole) intervals were compared. Subjects with long QT were compared with normals. Those with a long QT interval had the following results: similar resting heart rates; lower rates during moderate (151.6 vs 169.6 beats/min, p = 0.04) and maximal (155.9 vs 182.1 beats/min, p = less than 0.001) exercise; an abnormal QT cycle-length relationship, with failure of the QT to shorten normally with increasing heart rate; an increase in QTc versus a decrease in normals; supine rest QT/QS2 ratio of 1.12 vs 0.93, p = 0.001; and an exercise QT/QS2 that increased by 30%, from 1.12 at rest to 1.45, versus 15%, in normals, from 0.93 to 1.07, p = 0.001. The lower heart rates and excessively prolonged QT/QS2 ratios during exercise further support an abnormality of, or abnormal cardiac response to, sympathetic activity. A QT/QS2 greater than 1.0 at rest, an exercise QT/QS2 ratio greater than 1.17, and an increase in QTc during moderate exercise may be helpful diagnostic findings in patients with borderline long QTc intervals at rest. 
Diuretic agents and beta-blockers in the treatment of hypertension. Benzothiadiazine diuretic agents and beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking drugs are two of the main groups of drugs used to treat mild hypertension. Recently, questions have been raised about their relative efficacy in preventing morbidity and mortality from vascular disease in addition to their effect on lowering blood pressure. Attention has been focused on the unfavorable metabolic effects of diuretic drugs and the proven value of beta-adrenergic receptor blockade in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. Four randomized controlled trials comparing drugs in these two classes have been published: the Medical Research Council trial, the International Prospective Primary Prevention Study in Hypertension, the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension trial, and the Metoprolol Atherosclerosis Prevention in Hypertension study. These trials, especially that of the Medical Research Council, have raised some questions about the relative efficacy of these two classes of drugs in preventing stroke in smokers and nonsmokers. Overall, there is little evidence of a reduction in morbidity and mortality after myocardial infarction. The predicted advantage of beta-adrenergic receptor blockade over diuretic therapy has not been realized although there are sufficient hints of a differential benefit to encourage the performance of further trials. 
Atrial natriuretic factor in the acute nephritic and nephrotic syndromes. Because the role of systemic hormones in the pathophysiology of edema in acute renal disease remains incompletely understood, we compared the levels of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and plasma renin activity (PRA) in patients with acute glomerulonephritis (AGN), nephrotic syndrome (NS), and normal individuals during salt deprivation and salt loading. Sixteen patients with AGN (10 males) and nine patients with NS and hypoalbuminemia (7 males) were studied on admission, and after recovery (12 AGN patients) or remission (4 NS patients). Eighteen normal controls were each studied after five days on a low (20 mEq Na/day), regular (120 mEq Na/day) and high (300 mEq Na/day) dietary salt intake. Patients with AGN and NS had comparable edema (AGN 2.8 +/- 0.53 kg; NS 3.36 +/- 0.47 kg; SE) and urinary Na excretion (mean +/- SEM: AGN 0.97 +/- 0.11 mEq/hr; NS 1.06 +/- 0.16 mEq/hr), but AGN patients had five times higher ANF (AGN 27.2 +/- 4.06 fmol/ml; NS 5.51 +/- 1.02 fmol/ml; P less than 0.001) and six times lower PRA ng/liter.sec levels (AGN 0.187 +/- 0.047; NS 1.144 +/- 0.222; P less than 0.001) than NS patients. The degree of edema was correlated with ANF levels in AGN patients (P less than 0.001) but not in NS patients. There was a strong exponential negative correlation (r = -0.773, P less than 0.0001) between ANF and PRA, in which AGN patients and Na-restricted controls were located in the opposite ends of the volume sensing-response, and NS patients in the middle, alongside controls with regular Na intake. 
Mortality, cardiovascular risk factors, and diet in China, Finland, and the United States. Mortality, cardiovascular risk factors, and diet were compared in Tianjin province, People's Republic of China; in North Karelia Province, Finland; and in the United States as a whole. People in Tianjin received 7 percent of their energy intake from saturated fats, whereas people in the United States received 13 percent and those in North Karelia received 20. The mean blood cholesterol levels for men were 158 milligrams per deciliter (mg per dl) for Tianjin, 216 mg per dl for the United States, and 241 mg per dl for North Karelia. The smoking prevalence among men was highest in Tianjin (66 percent), followed by the United States (42 percent) and Finland (36 percent). The differences among mortality rates for the three locales were less pronounced among women than among men. Age-standardized total mortality for women was highest for Tianjin and lowest in North Karelia. The reverse was true for men. Age-standardized total mortality for men was lowest in Tianjin and highest in North Karelia. Age-standardized ischemic heart disease mortality for men was lowest in Tianjin (99 per 100,000) and highest in North Karelia (730 per 100,000). For women, the corresponding figures were 83 per 100,000 in Tianjin and 164 per 100,000 in North Karelia. Although salt intake was higher in Tianjin than in North Karelia, the blood pressure was on average lower in persons from Tianjin than in those from North Karelia. The stroke mortality rate in Tianjin, however, was much higher than in either Finland or the United States. 
Comparison between prostaglandin E1 and epoprostenol (prostacyclin) in infants after heart surgery. OBJECTIVE--To study the dose response characteristics of prostaglandin E1 and epoprostenol (prostacyclin) and directly to compare their effectiveness as pulmonary vasodilators in infants with pulmonary hypertension. DESIGN--A crossover design with each patient receiving both drugs in random order. SETTING--Infants were studied in the intensive care unit while they were sedated, paralysed, and ventilated. PATIENTS--Twenty infants who had undergone corrective cardiac surgery and who were in sinus rhythm, had stable haemodynamic function, and had a pulmonary artery catheter in place. All infants were receiving dopamine and phenoxybenzamine. INTERVENTIONS--Baseline haemodynamic measurements were taken and an infusion of the first drug was started at the lowest dose: after 20 minutes the measurements were repeated and the dose increased. This protocol was repeated for all doses of both drugs: 10, 30, and 100 ng/kg/min of prostaglandin E1 and 5, 10, and 25 ng/kg/min of epoprostenol. Cardiac output was measured by the pulsed Doppler ultrasound method. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Pulmonary and systemic vascular resistances were calculated from the cardiac output and compared by the Wilcoxon signed ranks test. RESULTS--Both prostaglandin E1 and epoprostenol were effective vasodilators: 5 ng/kg/min of epoprostenol was equivalent to 30 ng/kg/min of prostaglandin E1. CONCLUSIONS--Neither drug showed pulmonary specificity. 
Intraepithelial sebaceous epithelioma of lids, conjunctiva, and cornea treated with minimal orbital exenteration. "Minimal" orbital exenteration, obtained by excision of a lid tumor (that had recurred after local incision), removal of the conjunctival sac, enucleation, and tenonectomy were used to treat intraepithelial sebaceous epithelioma with pagetoid spread to conjunctiva and cornea in an 80-year-old man. 
Ebstein's anomaly associated with splenomegaly and reversible hypersplenism. A case of Ebstein's anomaly associated with chronic right heart failure, hepatosplenomegaly, and the haematological features of hypersplenism is presented. The haematological abnormalities were corrected after tricuspid valve replacement but recurred with the reemergence of clinical features of right heart failure. 
Cardiac reperfusion damage prevented by a nitroxide free radical. Experimental evidence is presented that directly links ischemia/reperfusion injury to the formation of oxygen-derived free radicals. 2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyl (TEMPO)--a stable nitroxide radical that disproportionates superoxide radicals and oxidizes reduced metal ions required for OH. formation--was tested for its ability to prevent reperfusion damage in the isolated rat heart subjected to regional ischemia. Severe reperfusion arrhythmia--ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia--were prominent in control hearts, and their duration was significantly reduced by the presence of 0.4 or 1 mM TEMPO. TEMPO also repressed both postischemic release of lactate dehydrogenase and OH. formation. TEMPO slowed the heart rate, but compensatory pacing did not alter the dramatic effect of the nitroxide on reperfusion arrhythmia. TEMPO was partially protective when introduced at the end of ischemia but had no effect when added 1 min into reperfusion. It was concluded that both reperfusion arrhythmia and cell damage were directly related to oxidative damage incurred during the critical first minute of reperfusion. TEMPO strongly protected against reperfusion injury by preventing the formation of OH. and not by decreasing heart rate or by direct suppression of arrhythmia. 
Gastric emptying after gastric interposition for cancer of the esophagus or hypopharynx. Transhiatal esophagectomy with primary anastomosis to the stomach (gastric pull-up) is an attractive surgical alternative to colic interposition in patients with cancer of the esophagus and hypopharynx. However, the lack of intrinsic gastric peristalsis and complaints by patients of postprandial regurgitation prompted us to measure the effect of body posture on the rates of gastric emptying in these patients. The rates of solid and liquid gastric emptying were measured in 14 patients who had undergone gastric interposition for esophageal and hypopharyngeal carcinoma. Rates of emptying were measured in both the supine and upright position using a dual-isotope radiolabeling technique. In these patients, the rate of gastric emptying of both solids and liquids was significantly slower in the supine position than in the upright position. Emptying in supine patients was also prolonged when compared with supine normal volunteers. Conversely, the upright rate of solid and liquid emptying in the patients was accelerated when compared with published values for upright normal volunteers. We conclude that gastric emptying after gastric interposition is dependent on upright posture after meals. 
Proinflammatory cytokines in acute asthma. Cytokine-mediated interactions between monocytes/macrophages, lymphocytes, and eosinophils may be important in regulation of airway inflammation in asthma. Peripheral blood cytokine concentrations were measured in twenty adults with severe, acute asthma, ten with mild asthma (intermittent inhaled beta-agonists), twelve with chronic asthma (high-dose inhaled steroids), and in sixteen healthy subjects. Interleukin-1 beta, tumour necrosis factor, and interferon gamma were not detected in most subjects. Granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor concentrations were higher in patients with severe asthma than in healthy subjects (median 179 vs 80 pg/ml; 95% confidence interval for difference 16-168; p = 0.009). Plasma concentrations of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) were similar in all asthma groups (geometric mean in severe acute group 570 U/ml, mild group 559 U/ml, and chronic group 560 U/ml) and higher than those in healthy controls (361 U/ml, p less than 0.01). Sequential sIL-2R measurements were done in fifteen of the patients with severe acute asthma. There was no difference between baseline concentrations and those after 2 days of steroid treatment but by day 7 they had fallen significantly (ratio day 7/day 3 = 0.74, [95% CI 0.67-0.82]; p less than 0.001); however, there was no correlation with improvement in peak expiratory flow. This study provides further evidence for T-lymphocyte activation in asthma but shows that plasma sIL-2R is not a useful marker of disease activity. 
Vitreon, a new perfluorocarbon. We evaluated a new liquid perfluorocarbon, perfluorophenanthrene (Vitreon). This material has proven to be non-toxic in vitrectomised rabbit eyes for up to six weeks. Present investigation under FDA guidelines establishes both the safety and efficacy of Vitreon in human eyes. We used Vitreon for intraoperative hydrokinetic retinal manipulation in 15 patients. In cases of proliferative vitreoretinopathy (6), rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (5), giant retinal tear (2), retinal dialysis (1), and tractional retinal detachment (1) the retina was successfully reattached. Postoperatively two patients developed proliferative vitreoretinopathy necessitating further surgery, and one patient developed hypotony. Follow-up showed 100% reattachment rate with a mean duration of 6.3 months. Postoperative visual acuity ranges from light perception to 20/30. 
Genotyping study of alcohol dehydrogenase class I polymorphism in French patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. The French Group for Research on Alcohol and Liver. Comparison of alcohol dehydrogenase polymorphism at the loci ADH2 and ADH3 is made in France between 46 alcoholic cirrhotic patients and 39 controls, by genotyping technique using polymerase chain reaction on blood microsample collected on blotting paper. The genotype distributions are similar, with low frequency of the ADH2(2) allele. Polymorphism at the ADH3 locus is not a genetic factor for alcoholic cirrhosis in France. 
Role of intrarenal angiotensin II and alpha-adrenoceptors in renal vasoconstriction with acute hypoxemia and hypercapnic acidosis in conscious dogs. To evaluate our previous observation of renal vasoconstriction during combined acute hypoxemia and hypercapnic acidosis preceded by acute hypoxemia, we studied 13 conscious mongrel uninephrectomized dogs with chronic renal catheters and controlled sodium intake (80 meq/day for 4 days). Five dogs were studied during combined acute hypoxemia (PaO2, 37 +/- 1 mm Hg) and hypercapnic acidosis (PaCO2, 59 +/- 1 mm Hg; pH 7.20 +/- 0.01). Each dog was studied during infusion of 1) the intrarenal vehicle (n = 5), 2) the intrarenal alpha 1-antagonist prazosin (0.2 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, n = 5), 3) intrarenal [Sar1,Ala8]angiotensin II (70 ng.kg-1.min-1, n = 5), and 4) intrarenal prazosin and [Sar1,Ala8]angiotensin II (n = 4). Immediate induction of combined hypoxemia and hypercapnic acidosis after control measurements during intrarenal vehicle infusion resulted in a decrease in effective renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate, increase in renal vascular resistance, and decrease in filtered sodium load in the first 20 minutes of the blood gas derangement. Intrarenal administration of [Sar1,Ala8]angiotensin II failed to reverse the effects of the combined blood gas derangement on renal function. In contrast, intrarenal prazosin administration either alone or in combination with [Sar1,Ala8]angiotensin II abrogated the increase in renal vascular resistance, decrease in glomerular filtration rate, and fall in filtered sodium load. These studies identify a major role for alpha 1-adrenoceptors in the renal vasoconstriction during combined hypoxemia and hypercapnic acidosis. 
Immunohistochemical localization of tissue-type plasminogen activator in the lining wall of chronic subdural hematoma. Capsules of chronic subdural hematoma were immunohistochemically stained with monoclonal antibody against tissue-type plasminogen activator. Endothelial cells of sinusoids and capillaries in the outer membrane showed strong immunostaining. Endothelial cells of veins and arteries in the dura mater showed moderate and weak staining. No cells other than the endothelial cells were stained. In the inner membrane, tissue-type plasminogen activator immunoreactivity was not seen. The mean concentration of tissue-type plasminogen activator in the hematoma content was higher than that in the plasma. The more the sinusoids in the outer membrane were developed, the higher the concentration of tissue-type plasminogen activator contained in the hematoma fluid. In chronic subdural hematoma, overproduction and oversecretion of tissue-type plasminogen activator from the sinusoidal and capillary endothelial cells in the outer membrane cause increased fibrinolysis, which in turn impairs hemostasis, and hemorrhage from the capillaries recurs, resulting in enlargement of the chronic subdural hematoma. 
Carbon dioxide laser vaporization of recalcitrant symptomatic plaques of Hailey-Hailey disease and Darier's disease. Carbon dioxide laser vaporization of localized, recalcitrant intertriginous plaques was done in two patients with Hailey-Hailey disease and two patients with Darier's disease. After treatment, only one patient had recurrence in one treatment site. All patients had significant clinical and symptomatic improvement. Destructive treatment must include the follicular infundibulum in Darier's disease, because histologically this was the focus of recurrent disease at one treated site. We suggest carbon dioxide laser vaporization for the treatment of chronic, localized, symptomatic plaques of Hailey-Hailey or Darier's disease, if medical therapy has been ineffective. 
Rearrangement of the T-cell receptor delta chain gene in T-cell lymphomas with a mature phenotype. The configuration of the T-cell receptor (TCR) delta chain gene was assessed using restriction fragment analysis and the Southern blot technique in 39 T-cell lymphomas with a mature immunophenotype. The TCR delta gene was rearranged in four lymphomas although the gamma/delta TCR was not expressed in two cases studied. The TCR delta gene was the only TCR gene rearranged in two cases. Each lymphoma with TCR delta gene rearrangement had an aberrant T-cell immunophenotype and three cases were of the large cell anaplastic type. The TCR delta gene was deleted in 22 cases and was in the germline configuration in 13 lymphomas. Deletion of the TCR delta gene was characteristic of mycosis fungoides, adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (human T cell leukemia-lymphoma virus positive), and Lennert's lymphoma, and was not identified in angiocentric lymphomas. In eight cases with TCR delta deletion, however, a large number of polyclonal (presumably reactive) T cells were present and, in these lymphomas, the authors could not determine if TCR delta gene deletion occurred in the polyclonal T cells, the neoplastic cells, or both cell populations. The authors conclude that the TCR delta gene is usually deleted in mature T-cell lymphomas, as would be expected in alpha/beta TCR T cells. However, TCR delta gene rearrangement is detectable in approximately 10% of cases. Analysis of this locus may be useful diagnostically, as it occasionally may be the only molecular marker of clonality in mature T-cell lymphomas T-cell receptor delta chain gene rearrangement also is found most often in lymphomas of the large cell anaplastic type. 
Spinal leptomeningeal metastasis from cerebral glioblastoma. Appearance on magnetic resonance imaging. A case of circumferential leptomeningeal metastasis to the spinal cord from an intracranial glioblastoma multiforme (spinal meningeal gliomatosis) is presented. The clinical, radiographic, and pathological features are described. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid accurately demonstrated the spread of disease when compared with autopsy findings. The value of spinal magnetic resonance imaging in patients with symptoms attributable to cerebrospinal fluid metastases is discussed. 
Penetrating cardiac injuries. One hundred nine penetrating cardiac injuries were reviewed: 49 gunshot wounds and 60 stab wounds. They were classified into four groups: group 1 (lifeless), 38; group 2 (agonal), 16; group 3 (shock), 33; and group 4 (stable), 22. Thirty-six patients in group 1 (94%) and 8 of 16 patients in group 2 (50%) underwent emergency room thoracotomy; 24 of 33 in group 3 (73%) and 20 of 22 (90%) underwent thoracotomy in the operating room. Twenty-one (38%) of 55 patients undergoing emergency room thoracotomy survived, whereas 47 (87%) of 54 patients undergoing operating room thoracotomy survived. Survival was 12 of 38 (31%) in group 1, 11 of 16 (69%) in group 2, 26 of 33 (79%) in group 3, and 18 of 22 (82%) in group 4 with an overall survival of 67 of 109 (61%). Gunshot wounds of the heart portend a worse prognosis than stab wounds. Survival of gunshot wounds was 20 of 49 (40%) compared with 47 survivors of 60 stab wounds (78%). Aggressive treatment, including emergency room thoracotomy, is justified for lifeless and deteriorating cardiac injury victims. 
Cytology of head and neck tumors, liver, and pancreas. The use of fine needle aspiration biopsy helps in reducing the number of thyroidectomies. Cytologic differentiation between cellular adenomas and well-differentiated follicular carcinomas is difficult, however; hence, both groups of lesions should be excised. Cytologic diagnosis of the common salivary gland tumors (ie, pleomorphic adenomas and Warthin's tumors) is accurate, but much experience is required for the cytodiagnosis of other tumor types. The majority of liver malignancies is metastatic in origin and poses no diagnostic problems. Pathologists also should be familiar with the cytology of hepatocellular carcinoma as the population of Asian immigrants in North America is increasing. Most of the pancreatic tumors are ductal adenocarcinomas, which can be diagnosed cytologically. Occasionally, atypical ductal epithelium in chronic pancreatitis may mimic malignancy. Cytodiagnosis of nonduct-cell neoplasms of the pancreas requires experience. 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura first seen as massive vaginal necrosis. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is a hematologic disorder that affects the microcirculation. A 38-year-old woman was first seen with fever, thrombocytopenia, and vaginal bleeding. Pelvic examination revealed massive vaginal necrosis. Hematology consultation resulted in agreement with the diagnosis of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. This is the first reported case of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura first seen as vaginal necrosis of which we are aware. 
Transthoracic high frequency (7.5 MHz) echocardiographic assessment of coronary vascular reserve and its relation to left ventricular mass. Transthoracic high frequency (7.5 MHz) ultrasonography can visualize the distal left anterior descending coronary artery. Thirty-seven patients were studied before and after administration of 0.4 mg sublingual nitroglycerin to determine whether this technique could quantitatively record changes in coronary artery diameter after intervention. Left anterior descending coronary artery diameter increased from 2.2 to 2.8 mm (p less than 0.05). The vasodilator response of this artery was compared with left ventricular mass index in normal subjects, patients with congestive cardiomyopathy and those with end-stage renal disease and left ventricular hypertrophy. Left anterior descending artery diameter increased 55% in normal subjects, 27% in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and 10% in those with end-stage renal disease with left ventricular hypertrophy. These results demonstrate that high frequency ultrasound can detect nitroglycerin-induced changes in left anterior descending artery diameter. The percent increase is related to the diameter before nitroglycerin administration, which is related to the underlying diagnosis and left ventricular mass index. 
Somatosensory evoked potentials to median nerve stimulation after partial section of the corpus callosum. Cortical somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) to electrical stimulation of the median nerve were studied in four patients with intractable epilepsy who had undergone callosotomy and in a patient with infarction in the corpus callosum in order to determine whether the corpus callosum was involved in the generation of ipsilateral frontal components. Both pre- and postoperative SEPs were recorded in three of four epileptic patients. There were no significant differences in the latencies and amplitudes of the bilateral frontal components (P20, N26) between pre- and postoperative recordings. Furthermore, irrespective of the extent of the section or lesion in the corpus callosum, the nature of the impairment and the existence of the disconnection syndrome, the SEP findings showed no significant differences compared with those of normal subjects. It thus appears unlikely that the ipsilateral SEP responses are transmitted from the contralateral hemisphere through at least the anterior portion of the corpus callosum. 
Scanning electron microscopic study of microaneurysms in the diabetic retina. We describe the clinical and pathologic appearance of the retinal microcirculation in a patient with a 22-year history of diabetes mellitus. A vascular cast of one eye was prepared and studied with scanning electron microscopy. The three-dimensional views obtained give insight into the pathogenesis of microaneurysms. 
Risks and benefits of home parenteral nutrition in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The gastrointestinal tract is a major target of the human immunodeficiency virus. Many AIDS patients have weight loss and/or diarrhea. Parenteral nutrition can be used to treat malnutrition associated with malabsorption. We reviewed retrospectively the clinical course of 22 patients with AIDS and weight loss greater than 10% who received home parenteral nutrition (HPN) for 56.2 patient-months. Mean weight loss was 21.4%, mean duration of HPN 2.55 months, mean age 37.4 years. Fifteen patients gained weight, six stabilized and two continued to lose weight. Nine patients returned to previous activity. Five died. The rates of catheter-related sepsis, complications, and metabolic disturbances were 0.12, 0.25, and 0.12/100 catheter days, respectively, results identical to those reported in other patient populations where HPN is commonly applied. We found that HPN induced weight gain and clinical improvement in most patients without higher risks of sepsis than in patients with malignancies. 
Multidrug-resistant myeloma: laboratory and clinical effects of verapamil as a chemosensitizer. Verapamil was evaluated as a chemosensitizer for reversing multidrug resistance in multiple myeloma both in vitro and in clinical trials. Bone marrows from 59 myeloma patients in relapse were evaluated for several resistance parameters: expression of p-glycoprotein (MDR1), doxorubicin (Adriamycin) and vincristine sensitivity, and the ability of added verapamil to reduce resistance to the cytotoxic agents. We found that verapamil was capable of sensitizing myeloma cells that exhibited resistance to doxorubicin and vincristine in vitro, but did not enhance sensitivity of cells that were drug sensitive (P less than .001). Myeloma cells expressing MDR1 immunohistochemically tended to be more doxorubicin resistant in vitro than MDR1-negative cells. In the clinical trials, 22 patients with myeloma refractory to vincristine-Adriamycin-dexamethasone (VAD) were treated with VAD plus high-dose intravenous verapamil (Ve). Among the 22 patients treated with VAD/Ve, five achieved a partial remission (23%). The median relapse-free survival for the VAD/Ve responders was 5.4 months and their overall survival from the start of VAD/Ve was better than that of the nonresponders. Among the subset of 10 patients whose myeloma cells were MDR1 positive, four responded clinically (40%), whereas none of five patients with MDR1-negative myeloma cells achieved remission with VAD/Ve. We also observed that myeloma cells from three of four VAD/Ve clinical responders exhibited in vitro chemosensitization with verapamil, whereas in vitro verapamil chemosensitization was seen in only one of six clinical nonresponders. Our observations demonstrate that clinical reversal of multidrug resistance can be achieved in some patients with VAD-refractory myeloma with the use of verapamil. In addition to their value in drug development, in vitro tests of MDR1 expression and of chemosensitizers plus cytotoxic drugs on the patients' bone marrow myeloma cells may identify patients who will respond clinically to chemosensitizer-containing regimens. We anticipate that chemosensitizer regimens capable of inhibiting multidrug resistance will play an increasing role in the treatment of hematologic malignancies, including B-cell neoplasms such as multiple myeloma and the non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. 
Suppression of rat deoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension by kallikrein-kinin system. Brown Norway kininogen-deficient rats had very low levels of plasma kininogens and lower levels of plasma prekallikrein, compared with those of normal rats of the same strain. Systolic blood pressure, determined by the tail-cuff method, of 5-week-old kininogen-deficient rats (106 +/- 0.4 mm Hg, n = 7) and the rate of systolic blood pressure increase with age were not different from those in normal rats. Weekly injections of deoxycorticosterone acetate (5 mg/kg s.c.) with 1% sodium chloride solution in drinking water after uninephrectomy at 7 weeks of age caused a gradual increase in the blood pressure of normal rats, reaching a plateau at 18 weeks of age, whereas that of deficient rats rose rapidly to 158 +/- 6 mm Hg 2 weeks after the start of treatment and continued to increase slightly, becoming significantly higher than normal rats at 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 weeks of age (p less than 0.05 or 0.01). The levels of urinary prokallikrein and active kallikrein were slightly higher in deficient rats before deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt treatment but were not significantly increased after this treatment, whereas these levels in normal rats were increased 3.6- and 4.7-fold by this treatment. Urinary free kinin, collected from the ureter in untreated deficient rats, was below the detection limit. The plasma level of low molecular weight kininogen, the substrate of glandular kallikrein, was decreased in normal rats during the treatment. Continuous subcutaneous injection of aprotinin by an osmotic pump to normal rats induced significant increase in blood pressure. These results indicate that glandular kallikrein may play a suppressive role in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertension. 
Biochemical and molecular analysis of cytochrome c oxidase deficiency in Leigh's syndrome. We studied three patients with Leigh's syndrome (LS) and cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency. Biochemical studies in brain, muscle, heart, liver, kidney, and fibroblasts disclosed a generalized COX deficiency. Kinetic studies of COX activity in brain mitochondria showed a low Vmax and a normal Km for reduced cytochrome c. Immunologic studies showed decrease of all COX subunits studied, without a specific defect of any one of them. Southern blot analysis excluded large deletions of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) but revealed a generalized increase in mtDNA quantity. Although Northern blot analysis showed no alteration in the 12 COX subunit mRNAs studied, two of three patients showed a decreased steady state rate of COX transcription in brain. COX deficiency in LS thus appears to be related to a decreased amount of otherwise normal COX holoenzyme. 
Meakin adjuvant regimen in premenopausal patients with breast cancer. A 10-year experience using ovarian ablation and prednisolone as adjuvant therapy for premenopausal patients with breast carcinoma, emphasizing tolerability and morbidity is reported. Thirty patients (15 aged less than 45 years, 15 aged greater than or equal to 45 years; range 28-54 years) underwent mastectomy/lumpectomy with axillary clearance (with or without local irradiation) followed by ovarian irradiation and prednisolone therapy (2.5 mg three times daily for 5 years). Patients were reviewed every 3 months for the first 3 years and every 6 months thereafter. Follow-up was between 1.5 and 10 years (median 5 years). Twenty-four patients are still alive. Three patients stopped therapy because of side-effects. There was a mean(s.e.m.) weight gain of 8.46(1.69) per cent on therapy. Nineteen patients have been weaned off prednisolone over a period of 0.5-7.5 months (median 2 months) and the median length of time off steroids is now 3 years (range 0.5-5 years). This regimen appears to be associated with an acceptable level of patient tolerability and a low chronic morbidity rate and should be considered as an alternative to adjuvant systemic cytotoxic therapy. 
Interrupted aortic arch with tetralogy of Fallot. A report of an unsuccessful surgically treated case. Interrupted aortic arch is a complete discontinuity of two segments of the aorta. Although associated with a number of conditions, it does not occur in association with pulmonary stenosis. We report a case unsuccessfully treated but from which we have learnt a lesson. 
Haemolytic effects of exercise. 1. Exercise-induced haemolysis has been implicated in the sub-optimal iron status of endurance-trained athletes. Accordingly, erythrocyte survival studies using 51Cr were performed on male and female distance runners (n = 20) and sedentary control subjects (n = 10) in order to determine whether the rate of erythrocyte destruction was altered as a consequence of repetitive exercise training. 2. The chromium half-disappearance time of the male (25.4 +/- 3.6 days, mean +/- SD) but not the female (28.3 +/- 4.6 days) athletes was significantly lower than that of the male (33.1 +/- 4.5 days) and female (32.3 +/- 2.6 days) control subjects (P less than 0.01). The mean erythrocyte lifespan of the male and female distance runners (67.2 +/- 22.2 and 72.4 +/- 26.0 days, respectively) was significantly shorter than that of the non-exercising male and female subjects (113.4 +/- 31.0 and 114.1 +/- 29.0 days, respectively) (P less than 0.01). 3. There was no correlation between the mean erythrocyte lifespan and the haemoglobin concentration, serum ferritin levels, body mass, weekly training distance, number of years running or daily protein intake. The mean cell volume and reticulocyte count measured in the same athletes before and after completing a standard 42 km marathon race were within the normal range, whereas the plasma haemoglobin levels were elevated (77.0 +/- 50.5 mg/l) and the serum haptoglobin levels were decreased (0.89 +/- 0.4 g/l) at rest, with a further significant decrease after running (0.69 +/- 0.4 g/l) in the latter measurement (P less than 0.05). 4. It is concluded that the demonstrated increase in erythrocyte turnover may be sufficient to precipitate an iron deficiency in endurance athletes when dietary intake or absorption does not meet the accelerated erythropoietic demands. 
Cell migration and actin organization in cultured human primary, recurrent cutaneous and metastatic melanoma. Time-lapse and image analysis. Random cell migration and actin organization in seven human primary, recurrent cutaneous, and metastatic melanoma cell lines were studied by time-lapse video recording and image analysis. The migration of over 800 randomly selected cells from the cell lines were recorded using an inverted microscope with an attached incubator housing. The fraction of cells with random migration rates greater than 10 microns/hour was 8% in an established primary melanoma cell line, 2% and 34% in two recurrent cutaneous melanoma cell lines, and 5%, 30%, 31%, and 60% in four metastatic cell lines. The three metastatic cell lines with significantly higher mean migration rates (P less than 0.001) were derived from lymph node metastases, whereas the fourth metastatic cell line was derived from a visceral metastasis. The cellular morphology and presence of cell nests in the original tissue correlated with in vitro cell morphology and the formation of colonies. The ability of cells to organize actin into stress fibers directly correlated with significantly higher random migration rates and lack of colony formation. Characterization of random migration rates and actin organization of human melanoma cells that are isolated from different stages of tumor progression may lend insight into metastasis. 
Stasis ulcers: the role of compliance in healing. The goal in treating a stasis ulcer is rapid and permanent reepithelialization of the ulcer bed. The patient can reach this goal by strict compliance with a program taught and continually reinforced by the physician. The program teaches about the effects of the force of gravity on the flow of blood and lymph in the lower extremities in various positions. The program consists of three rules for the patient to follow: (1) Never sit with legs below heart level. (2) Never stand still. Walk in place or even while sitting (if sitting is necessary). (3) Always wear compressive stockings or pneumatic leggings when walking. I present four case histories demonstrating the different rates of healing of stasis ulcers during noncompliance and during compliance with the physiologic methods of controlling edema and venous stasis in the legs. 
Hemianesthesia, sensory neglect, and defective access to conscious experience. We report a patient with an ischemic stroke in the vascular territory of the right middle cerebral artery who had left spatial neglect and left hemianesthesia. The patient showed a dissociation between defective verbal reporting of somatosensory stimuli delivered to the left hand and physiologic evidence from an autonomic index. This indicates that there was processing of undetected stimuli without the patient's awareness, and suggests that the hemianesthesia was due, at least in part, to somesthetic hemi-inattention. 
Embryological and molecular investigations of parental imprinting on mouse chromosome 7 Mouse embryos with duplications of whole maternal (parthenogenetic and gynogenetic) or paternal (androgenetic) genomes show reciprocal phenotypes and do not develop to term. Genetic complementation has identified the distal region of chromosome 7 (Chr 7) as one of the regions for which both a maternal and paternal chromosome copy are essential for normal development, presumably because of the presence of imprinted genes whose expression is dependent on their parental origin. Embryos with the maternal duplication and paternal deficiency of distal Chr 7 are growth retarded and die around day 16 of gestation; the reciprocal paternal duplication embryos die at an unidentified earlier stage. We report here the incorporation of cells with the paternal duplication into chimaeras, resulting in a striking growth enhancement of the embryos. One gene located on mouse distal Chr 7 (ref. 5) is the insulin-like growth factor 2 (Igf2) gene, an embryonic mitogen. In embryos with the maternal duplication of distal Chr 7, the two maternal alleles of the Igf2 gene are repressed. The presence of two paternal alleles of this gene in many cells is probably responsible for the growth enhancement observed in chimaeras. We propose that there are other imprinted genes in this Chr 7 region. We also compare the imprinting of this subgenomic region with phenotypes resulting from the duplication of the whole parental genome in parthenogenones and androgenones. 
Initial blood pressure fall on stand up and exercise explained by changes in total peripheral resistance. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms of the initial fall in blood pressure on standing upright from the supine position, we measured the beat-to-beat changes in intra-arterial pressure in eight healthy male subjects in response to standing. Changes in stroke volume, cardiac output, and total peripheral resistance were computed from the pressure waveform using a pulse contour method. To determine possible mechanisms for the changes observed on standing, similar measures were made on passive tilting and a brief (3-s) bout of cycle exercise. Standing elicited a transient 25% (23-mmHg) fall in mean blood pressure as a result of a 36% fall in total peripheral resistance. Head-up tilt elicited a gradual change in haemodynamic parameters, which reached plateau levels in 20-30 s. Cycling elicited a transient 17% (18-mmHg) fall in blood pressure and a 41% fall in total peripheral resistance. In addition, we measured right atrial and esophageal pressures in two subjects on standing and cycling and found a 10- to 15-mmHg rise in right atrial pressure without a corresponding change in esophageal pressure. This points to the cardiopulmonary reflex as the primary effector of peripheral vasodilation, but we cannot exclude the possibility that 1) local metabolic vasodilation and 2) central command-mediated cholinergic vasodilation contributed to the fall in vascular resistance. 
Effects of a three-drug antineoplastic protocol of wound healing in rats: a biomechanical and histologic study on gastrointestinal anastomoses and laparotomy wounds. Using biomechanical and histologic approaches, the effect of perioperative administration of a drug protocol containing 5-fluoruracil, Adriamycin, and mitomycin C (FAM) on the healing of gastrointestinal anastomoses and laparotomy wounds in rats was examined. Application of FAM immediately before operation resulted in significant impairment of wound healing in the early postoperative period. Once the proliferation of fibroblasts and collagen synthesis had led to an increase of mechanical strength, no negative effect on wound healing could be detected applying the same chemotherapeutic agents. These findings indicate the early inflammatory phase of the wound healing process to be most vulnerable to the chemotherapeutic effects. This has significant implications if the theoretical advantages of starting adjuvant chemotherapeutic treatment in the immediate postoperative period are implemented. 
Involvement of vacuolar H(+)-adenosine triphosphatase activity in multidrug resistance in HL60 cells. HL60 cells isolated for resistance to vincristine (HL60/Vinc cells) or doxorubicin (HL60/Adr cells) contain enhanced levels of an energy-dependent drug efflux pump. HL60/Vinc cells contain the drug transporter P-glycoprotein, whereas the HL60/Adr isolate does not. In the present study, we examined the possible involvement of vacuolar H(+)-adenosine triphosphatase (H(+)-ATPase) activity in drug resistance in HL60 cells. We utilized bafilomycin A1, an agent which selectively inhibits vacuolar H(+)-ATPase activity at low concentrations. The results showed that bafilomycin A1 induced a major increase in drug accumulation and inhibited drug efflux in both HL60/Adr cells and HL60/Vinc cells. Similar results were obtained with 7-chloro-4-nitrobenz-2-oxa 1,3 diazole, an agent which is also capable of inhibiting vacuolar H(+)-ATPase. Azide, an inhibitor of F1F0 mitochondrial ATPase, and vanadate and ouabain, which are inhibitors of E1E2-type ATPase, did not affect drug levels in resistant cells. We also observed that bafilomycin A1 did not compete with [3H]azidopine binding to P-glycoprotein. Thus, bafilomycin A1 does not appear to function as a substrate for P-glycoprotein. These results suggest an involvement of vacuolar H(+)-ATPase activity in the pathway of drug efflux from HL60/Adr cells and HL60/Vinc cells. The mechanism of this action remains to be determined. 
Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome of the scalp: histologic and ultrastructural findings. Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome is an association of connective tissue nevi and osteopoikilosis that usually appears in the first decades of life. The nevi occur on the trunk and extremities. In a 48-year-old man with this rare syndrome the connective tissue nevus was located on the scalp and was pruritic. Histologically, involvement of the epidermis with cystic dilatation of the hair follicles and an abnormality of mucopolysaccharides were present. The nevi in this syndrome may involve an alteration in the three components of connective tissue to a variable degree. 
A regional prospective study of in-hospital mortality associated with coronary artery bypass grafting. The Northern New England Cardiovascular Disease Study Group. OBJECTIVE--A prospective regional study was conducted to determine if the observed differences in in-hospital mortality rates associated with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) are solely the result of differences in patient case mix. DESIGN-Regional prospective cohort study. Data including patient demographic and historical data, body surface area, cardiac catheterization results, priority of surgery, comorbidity, and status at hospital discharge were collected. This study presents data for 3055 CABG patients between July 1, 1987, and April 15, 1989. SETTING--This study includes data from all surgeons performing cardiothoracic surgery in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont; the data were collected from five regional medical centers. PATIENTS--Data were collected from all consecutive isolated CABG surgery patients during the study period. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Crude and adjusted in-hospital mortality rates associated with CABG. MAIN RESULTS--The overall crude in-hospital mortality rate for isolated CABG was 4.3%. The rate varied among centers (range, 3.1% to 6.3%) and among surgeons (range, 1.9% to 9.2%). Predictors of in-hospital mortality included increased age, female gender, small body surface area, greater comorbidity, reoperation, poorer cardiac function as indicated by a lower ejection fraction, increased left ventricular end diastolic pressure and emergent or urgent surgery. After adjusting for the effects of potentially confounding variables, substantial and statistically significant variability was observed among medical centers (P = .021) and among surgeons (P = .025). CONCLUSION--We conclude that the observed differences in in-hospital mortality rates among institutions and among surgeons in northern New England are not solely the result of differences in case mix as described by these variables and may reflect differences in currently unknown aspects of patient care. Understanding this variation requires a detailed understanding of the processes of care. 
Sinus bradycardia related to temporomandibular joint surgery. The carotid artery lies in close relationship to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). Manipulation of the mandible during TMJ surgery has been observed in several cases to be directly associated with the development of sinus bradycardia as the joint is distracted during arthrotomy and arthroplasty procedures. We report several cases and discuss differential diagnosis of sinus bradycardia associated with positional changes of the TMJ. This report emphasizes the importance to the surgeon and to the anesthesiologist of recognition of this cardiac phenomenon, mediated through the trigeminovagal reflex, to appropriately manage the patients during TMJ surgery. 
Malignant biliary obstruction: percutaneous use of self-expandable stents A total of 83 self-expandable metallic stents were placed percutaneously in 69 patients for palliation of malignant biliary obstruction. Stent diameter was 1 cm; length, 3.5-10.5 cm. Of the 41 patients with common bile duct obstruction, 27 died 0.2-12 months (median, 3.2 months) after stent insertion. Two patients developed recurrent jaundice and cholangitis after 6 and 12 months, respectively. One patient underwent reintervention. Fourteen patients were alive without jaundice 1-8 months (median, 6.3 months) after stent placement. Of the 28 patients with hilar lesions, 13 died 0.7-7.6 months (median, 4.3 months) after stent placement. Fifteen were alive 1-15.5 months (median, 8.1 months) afterward. Recurrent jaundice and cholangitis were seen in eight of the 28 patients (28%) after 1-6 months (median, 3.6 months). The cause of malfunction of the stent(s) was tumor ingrowth in one patient, tumor overgrowth at the proximal end in five patients, and overgrowth at the distal end in two patients. Reintervention was performed in five patients (18%). Stent-related complications were seen in four patients. 
Eosinophil-induced chronic active hepatitis in the idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. A 19-yr-old man had features of chronic hepatitis with piecemeal necrosis as the sole clinical feature of the idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. Liver biopsy specimens demonstrated the presence of activated eosinophils and, by immunohistochemical staining, major basic protein in areas of hepatic cell damage. The case demonstrates the clinical presentation of the idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome as chronic hepatitis and the association between eosinophil infiltration and degranulation with the presence of hepatocyte necrosis. 
Expression of a mutant DNA topoisomerase II in CCRF-CEM human leukemic cells selected for resistance to teniposide. Nuclear extracts from teniposide (VM-26)-resistant sublines of the human leukemic cell line CCRF-CEM have decreased levels of DNA topoisomerase II catalytic activity and decreased capacity to form drug-stabilized covalent protein-DNA complexes. The ATP concentration required for equivalent activity in a DNA-unknotting assay is 2- to 8-fold higher in nuclear extracts from drug-resistant cell lines as compared with the parental line. When adenosine 5'-[beta,gamma-imido]triphosphate is substituted for ATP in complex-formation assays, no significant change is seen with drug-sensitive cells, but a 50-65% reduction is seen with VM-26-resistant cells. Collectively, these results indicate that an alteration in ATP binding may be involved in the resistance phenotype. Therefore, we identified regions of the topoisomerase II sequence that conform to previously identified nucleotide-binding sites. Starting with cDNA as the template we determined the sequence of the topoisomerase II mRNA surrounding these sites by sequencing DNA fragments produced by the polymerase chain reaction. In the region corresponding to the consensus B ATP-binding sequence described by Walker et al. [Walker, J. E., Saraste, M., Runswick, M. J. & Gay, N. J. (1982) EMBO J. 1, 945-951], the cDNA from the two VM-26-resistant sublines contained an altered sequence having a G----A base change. This base substitution results in the replacement of the conserved arginine at position 449 with a glutamine. Hybridization with allele-specific oligonucleotides confirmed the presence of both the normal and the altered sequence in the resistant cell lines, whereas only the normal sequence was found in the sensitive CEM cells. A chemical mismatch cleavage procedure for the detection of mispaired bases in DNA duplexes identified no other alterations in the 5' third of the mRNA coding sequence, which contains the complete ATP-binding domain of topoisomerase II. The presence of mRNA encoding topoisomerase II with Gln449 correlates both with the presence of a topoisomerase II protein whose interaction with ATP is altered and with increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of VM-26. 
Relation of risk factor levels in young adulthood to parental history of disease. The CARDIA study BACKGROUND. The relation between self-reported parental disease and risk factor levels was examined in 2,637 black and 2,478 white men and women aged 18-30 years at the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) Study baseline examination (1985-1986). METHODS AND RESULTS. The prevalence of parental disease (at least one parent) in white versus black participants was 44% and 56% for hypertension, 47% and 44% for obesity, 16% and 13% for myocardial infarction, 11% and 17% for diabetes, and 6% and 10% for stroke, respectively. Among these young adults, parental hypertension was associated with higher sex- and age-adjusted systolic and diastolic blood pressure levels. Parental myocardial infarction was associated with higher plasma cholesterol, higher blood pressure levels, and lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in white participants. Parental diabetes was associated with higher fasting blood glucose and insulin levels in all race-sex groups and with higher triglycerides and lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol in black participants only. Parental history of obesity was related to less favorable age- and sex-adjusted lipid levels in white participants and higher blood pressure levels in black participants. Parental history of stroke was associated with higher systolic blood pressure levels in black participants. In general, these differences across family history were predicted only in part by obesity. The prevalence of more than one disease reported in parents occurred more frequently than would have been expected due to chance alone. CONCLUSIONS. These associations between parental disease and risk factors in their adult children probably reflects the impact of both environmental and genetic factors. Parental history may be a useful marker for high risk individuals. 
Morphine pharmacokinetics and pain assessment after intracerebroventricular administration in patients with terminal cancer. Morphine pharmacokinetics and pain relief were evaluated after intracerebroventricular administration of morphine (0.4 +/- 0.11 mg) in seven patients with cancer suffering from intractable pain. Ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), lumbar CSF, and plasma morphine concentrations were analyzed by a specific morphine radioimmunoassay. A two-compartment model was sufficient to describe the kinetics of morphine in ventricular CSF. Morphine diffuses to the lumbar level, and the mean maximum concentration was 192 +/- 105 ng/ml at 4.5 +/- 1.3 hours. Ventricular and lumbar CSF morphine kinetics showed a similar decline during the elimination phase, with terminal half-lives of 3.8 +/- 0.6 hours and 4.2 +/- 1.6 hours, respectively. Pain relief was evaluated by a visual analog scale: the test showed a rapid onset of analgesia (less than 10 minutes). Analgesic effectiveness reached a maximum between 6 and 10 hours. The relationship between pharmacologic effect and morphine concentrations in ventricular CSF resulted in an anticlockwise hysteresis curve. The presence of morphine in lumbar CSF suggested an additive spinal action of morphine, which probably plays a role in the duration of analgesia. 
Pentoxifylline inhibits interleukin-2-induced leukocyte-endothelial adherence and reduces systemic toxicity. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) mediates the regression of metastatic cancer, but clinical application has been limited by the induction of dose-dependent toxicities in normal tissues. The most clinically significant toxicities occur secondary to a vascular leak syndrome and include acute respiratory failure and hemodynamic instability. Because previous studies suggested a role for pentoxifylline in attenuating the toxic effects of IL-2, we hypothesized that pentoxifylline would inhibit alterations in the microvasculature induced by IL-2 and would ultimately reduce IL-2-induced toxicity. To determine the validity of this hypothesis, we prepared four groups of rats for in vivo microvascular observation. In the first group, a bolus intravenous injection of IL-2 (1 x 10(6) units/kg) acutely induced hypotension, tachypnea, hypoxia, increased lung water, decreased microvascular blood flow, and increased leukocyte-endothelial adherence. No significant changes occurred in animals treated by pentoxifylline alone or the control IL-2 vehicle-alone group. However, pentoxifylline inhibited many of the IL-2-induced systemic and microvascular effects, such as hypotension, tachypnea, increased lung water, hypoxia, and increased leukocyte-endothelial adherence, but not tachycardia or increased microvascular protein leakage. These data support our hypothesis that systemic toxicities induced by IL-2 are associated with alterations in the microcirculation, which may be ameliorated by pentoxifylline. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left coronary artery in patients with chronic occlusion of the right coronary artery: clinical and functional results. The safety and therapeutic benefits of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left anterior descending coronary artery, the left circumflex coronary artery or both were assessed in 61 patients with chronic (greater than 3 months) occlusion of the right coronary artery. Recanalization of the right coronary artery was not performed before dilatation of left coronary artery lesions. All lesions could be dilated without an acute ischemic event in the catheterization laboratory. However, three patients underwent coronary artery bypass surgery within the first 8 days after coronary angioplasty. There were no in-hospital deaths. Of the remaining 58 patients, 51 (88%) had repeat angiography at a mean of 5.2 +/- 2.5 months. Patients were divided into two groups according to the presence (n = 17) or absence (n = 34) of restenosis defined as greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis at the dilated site. Baseline characteristics were comparable. The mean value for angina functional class at follow-up was significantly better in the group without than in the group with restenosis (0.4 +/- 0.6 vs 2.1 +/- 1.1, respectively; p less than 0.001). Sixty-five percent of the patients without restenosis were asymptomatic at follow-up. Seventy-five percent of the predicted maximal physical capacity was reached by 76% of the patients without restenosis compared with 33% in the group with restenosis (p less than 0.05). 
Neonatal short bowel syndrome. In this retrospective study the management of infants who had undergone resection of more than 50% of the small bowel as newborn infants between 1970 and 1988 was analyzed to define prognostic factors. Small bowel resections were performed for atresia (36 cases), volvulus (22 cases), gastroschisis (10 cases), necrotizing enterocolitis (11 cases), and other disorders (8 cases). Patients were classified into two groups depending on the length of residual small bowel: group 1 (n = 35) had less than 40 cm of small bowel and group 2 (n = 51) had 40 to 80 cm of residual small bowel. Patients in group 2 had significantly better survival rates than those in group 1 (92.0% vs 66.6%; p less than 0.001). The patients in group 1 who were born after 1980, when home parenteral nutrition was introduced, had better survival rates than those who were treated before 1980 (95.0% vs 65.0%; p less than 0.01). The time required for acquisition of intestinal adaptation depended on the intestinal length (average, 27.3 months for group 1 and 14 months for group 2; p less than 0.01) and on the presence or absence of the ileocecal valve. Parenteral or supportive enteral nutrition, or both, ensured normal growth in both groups. We conclude that more than 90% of infants now survive after extensive small bowel resection with parenteral nutrition and that the remaining small intestine will adapt with time. Home-based parenteral nutrition allowed children to be treated in the best psychosocial environment. 
Carcinoembryonic antigen levels in peritoneal washings can predict peritoneal recurrence after curative resection of gastric cancer. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels were determined in the peritoneal washings from 120 patients with gastric cancer and 9 patients with benign diseases. Elevated values (greater than 100 ng/g of protein) were observed in 20 of 25 patients with gastric cancer with visible dissemination and 16 of 25 patients with serosal invasion but no dissemination. The same elevation was found in only 9 of 70 patients with no serosal invasion and none of the patients with benign disease. The 2-year survival rates after curative operation for the patients with and without elevation of CEA levels were 21% (19 patients) and 100% (66 patients), respectively (P less than 0.001). A negative correlation was found between CEA levels and survival times after noncurative operation. These results indicate that the CEA level in peritoneal washings could be a sensitive detector of invisible peritoneal dissemination and a new predictor for the postoperative prognosis of gastric cancer. 
Asymptomatic bacterascites: is it spontaneous bacterial peritonitis? Asymptomatic bacterascites is defined as the presence of bacteria in ascitic fluid without clinical features of peritonitis or increased ascitic fluid polymorphonuclear cells. Asymptomatic bacterascites is a controversial entity, and little information is available regarding its spontaneous evolution. Clinical features, bacteriological data and outcome in 22 cirrhotic patients with asymptomatic bacterascites are reported and are compared with those of a group of 36 cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Eleven patients had gram-negative bacteria and 11 had one gram-positive bacteria. Only in three patients (13.6%) did peritonitis develop. Twelve patients received no antibiotic therapy, and in none did peritonitis develop. At 1 month, 27% of patients with asymptomatic bacterascites had died. Patients with asymptomatic bacterascites had less-severe liver disease; they more frequently had gram-positive bacteria in ascitic fluid and had a lower 1-mo mortality rate than did patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. We conclude that asymptomatic bacterascites is usually the transient residence of bacteria in ascitic fluid. Peritonitis rarely develops in patients with asymptomatic bacterascites and, in most of them, antibiotic therapy is not required. 
Population-based study of surgery in juvenile onset Crohn's disease. A geographically based cohort of 68 children with Crohn's disease was derived by sampling from Scottish Hospital In-patient Statistics. Surgical histories were examined and analysed by actuarial methods, and the nature of major operations performed was compared with operations for Crohn's disease in the Lothians' Surgical Audit. Fifty-four of the 68 patients were treated surgically, with a total of 135 operations (71 major, 64 minor). Fifty per cent of the cohort had a major operation within 5 years of onset of symptoms; median time to a second operation was 4 years. The types of major operation performed in juvenile onset patients differed significantly from those recorded in the Lothians' audit, with a high rate of exploratory laparotomy in younger patients (12 cases). With a mean follow-up of 7 years, 12 patients (18 per cent) have a permanent stoma. There were five deaths, three postoperative. This study highlights the frequency of surgical intervention in young people with Crohn's disease. 
Effect of preoperative stabilization on respiratory system compliance and outcome in newborn infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. To determine whether preoperative stabilization and delay of operative repair of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) may decrease operative risk, we performed serial pulmonary function tests on 22 newborn infants with CDH and on four infants without pulmonary hypoplasia (two with ileal atresia and two with tracheoesophageal anomalies) who served as control subjects. We used 2 passive respiratory mechanics technique to measure respiratory system compliance. All patients with CDH had respiratory distress immediately after birth, and required mechanical ventilation. Thirteen babies underwent emergency repair (six survived, seven died); nine of them received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) after the operation (two survived, seven died). Operative repair was delayed deliberately for 2 to 11 days in nine infants with severe hypoxemia. Six immediately received ECMO for 4 to 10 days; one died of intraventricular hemorrhage, and five survived and later underwent surgical repair. The seventh patient did not receive ECMO but appeared to have respiratory distress syndrome of infancy and improved after administration of synthetic surfactant. Improvement was seen in two additional infants who received conventional assisted ventilation during a 48-hour delay before surgery, and survived. In all, eight of nine infants who underwent preoperative stabilization survived (p less than 0.05 compared with survival after emergency surgery). Following surgical repair immediately after birth, respiratory system compliance improved only slightly during the first week of life, a time when control infants had a rapid increase in respiratory system compliance (p less than 0.001). In contrast, respiratory system compliance increased nearly twofold in the nine patients undergoing preoperative stabilization (p less than 0.02). Preoperative ECMO was associated with an increase in respiratory system compliance of more than 60% for 1 week, a significant difference from respiratory system compliance among patients undergoing emergency CDH repair (p less than 0.05). These observations provide physiologic evidence of possible benefits of preoperative stabilization before repair of CDH. 
Acute pseudobulbar or suprabulbar palsy. We studied 13 patients with supranuclear lower cranial nerve ("pseudobulbar" or "suprabulbar") palsy of acute onset. While seven patients had had a prior stroke, six patients had no history of stroke. Eight patients experienced a complete bilateral supranuclear lower cranial nerve palsy, which was isolated in five patients and associated with hemiplegia and with hemiparesis in three patients. Pseudobulbar palsy was partial in five patients. Only one patient had neuropsychologic impairment. The pseudobulbar features improved or recovered within a few weeks in all patients. The common characteristic of the lesions on computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging was the interruption of the corticonuclear pathways contrasting with marked sparing of the corticospinal pathways in both hemispheres. These lesions were either an opercular infarct, or a deep infarct in the corona radiata or internal capsule, or a lenticular hemorrhage. Hypertension was the most prevalent concomitant. Our findings suggest that acute pseudobulbar or suprabulbar palsy has rather stereotyped anatomic-vascular correlates and time course. 
Rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma as a result of blunt abdominal trauma. Spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma occurs frequently in populations in which this tumor is common, but rarely in populations with a low incidence of the tumor. Rupture caused by blunt abdominal trauma has previously been reported in a single patient only. We describe three southern African black men who presented with an acute hemoperitoneum after blunt trauma to the abdomen, and in whom a moderate-size hepatocellular carcinoma was found at laparotomy to have ruptured. In two of the patients, it was possible to resect the tumor. This resectability rate is unusual in blacks with hepatocellular carcinoma, because the tumor is characteristically far advanced at the time of presentation and is rarely amenable to resection. 
Microvascular angina. Cardiovascular investigations regarding pathophysiology and management. A significant minority of patients with chest pain who undergo cardiac catheterization are found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries. Over the past 25 years, several studies have shown that a subset have demonstrable abnormalities in coronary flow and cardiac function; however, only a minority of these patients have convincing evidence for myocardial ischemia during stress, and alternative mechanisms have been explored to explain the frequent and debilitating symptoms of pain experienced by the majority of these patients undergoing study. Abnormal visceral nociception appears to be a fundamental abnormality in this population, whether or not demonstrable abnormalities in coronary flow or cardiac function can be demonstrated. 
Low-dose enoximone in subjects awaiting cardiac transplantation. Clinical results and effects on beta-adrenergic receptors. During a 3-year period we administered enoximone, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor with positive inotropic and vasodilator properties, to 73 pretransplantation patients with end-stage heart failure who exhibited a clinical requirement for additional inotropic support. The clinical course and myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor status in the explanted hearts of these 73 patients was compared with results in 113 concurrently listed pretransplantation patients not requiring additional inotropic support. Only three patients required cessation of enoximone because of adverse effects, all from exacerbation of ventricular arrhythmias. Sixty-six of 73 (90.4%) enoximone-treated patients ultimately underwent cardiac transplantation a mean of 39.2 +/- 6.6 days (range 1 to 221 days) after starting enoximone, whereas seven patients (9.6%) died awaiting cardiac transplantation. The respective 1-, 3-, and 6-month pretransplantation survival rates of patients treated with enoximone calculated from their time on the waiting list for transplantation were 88.0%, 82.5%, and 82.5% compared with 92.1%, 83.8%, and 76.2% in control patients not receiving enoximone (all p = not significant). In 25 patients who received enoximone, ventricular myocardial beta-adrenergic receptors were measured at the time of transplantation and compared with values in failing ventricles from 52 pretransplantation patients not exposed to enoximone. Compared with ventricular myocardium of patients not given enoximone or intravenous beta-adrenergic agonists, total beta-adrenergic receptor (beta 1 plus beta 2) density was not decreased in patients treated with enoximone or enoximone plus intravenous beta-adrenergic agonists, but was decreased by 31% (p less than 0.05) in patients given intravenous beta-adrenergic agonists alone. Additionally, patients treated with enoximone had higher myocardial beta 2-adrenergic receptor densities than respective subgroups treated without (28% higher, p less than 0.01) or with (65% higher, p less than 0.01) intravenous beta-adrenergic agonists. Finally, isoproterenol- or calcium-mediated contractile responses in isolated right ventricular preparations from 14 patients treated with enoximone were similar to values in control patients not exposed to enoximone or intravenous beta-adrenergic agonists, suggesting that enoximone-related beta-adrenergic subsensitivity or damage to the contractile apparatus does not occur. 
Long-term soft-tissue effects of biliary extracorporeal shock waves: an animal study. Although delayed effects of renal extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) have been reported, the long-term soft-tissue effects after biliary ESWL have not been investigated. We report soft-tissue effects seen up to 1 year after biliary extracorporeal shock waves were administered to 18 Yucatan pigs. The gallbladder received 4000 electromagnetic shock waves from a Siemens Lithostar overhead module. Blood samples were drawn from each pig for hematologic, coagulation, and biochemical profiles immediately before and then at prescribed time intervals after administration of shock waves. Autopsy and histopathologic examination of the gallbladder and surrounding organs were performed. Kidneys and adrenal glands also were examined in five pigs followed up for 1 year. There were no gross or microscopic abnormalities in 11 animals, including all five animals in the 1-year group in which kidneys and adrenal glands also were normal. One animal (3-week group) had two 2-mm foci of parenchymal necrosis in the right lobe of the liver, probably related to ischemia after shock-wave therapy. Transient rise in liver and pancreatic enzyme levels was seen in most animals after administration of shock waves. The levels returned to normal within 2 months in all but one animal. We conclude that biliary ESWL with the Lithostar Plus does not produce long-term histologic evidence of organ damage in Yucatan pigs. 
Jolt accentuation of headache: the most sensitive sign of CSF pleocytosis. We prospectively examined the clinical signs of 54 febrile patients associated with recent-onset headache. They underwent lumbar puncture (LP) on suspicion of meningitis. The relation of each sign to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis was estimated. Among 34 patients with pleocytosis, 33 had jolt accentuation (sensitivity: 97.1%), while only 5 of them had neck stiffness or Kernig's sign. Among 20 patients without pleocytosis, 12 had no jolt accentuation (specificity: 60%). We found jolt accentuation to be the most sensitive sign of CSF pleocytosis. If jolt accentuation is noted in a febrile patient associated with recent onset headache, the CSF should be examined even in the absence of neck stiffness or Kernig's sign. 
Cost-effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment. General considerations. Cost-effectiveness analysis, a set of methods for estimating the costs and health effects of medical interventions, helps decision makers to compare alternative treatments and to decide which interventions are appropriate in which situations. This article outlines some fundamental principles of cost-effectiveness analysis and discusses the characteristics necessary if alternative therapies are to be more cost-effective than traditional drug treatment for hypertension. The discussion focuses primarily on the newer drugs like angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers, and calcium antagonists. 
Quantitative analysis of signal-averaged P waves in idiopathic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Detailed analysis of the QRS complex can identify patients at risk from ventricular arrhythmias, but similar techniques applied to the atria have been disappointing. This study attempts to quantitate differences in the fine morphology of P waves in a group of 9 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) versus 15 control subjects. Atrial triggered signal-averaging was combined with a detailed investigation of P-wave duration, high-frequency spatial voltage and spatial velocity. Signal-averaged P-wave duration was significantly increased in patients with paroxysmal AF (135 +/- 8 vs 126 +/- 4 ms, p less than 0.05). The root-mean-square voltage at frequencies greater than 35 Hz in these patients was also significantly greater (16 +/- 3 vs 12 +/- 1 microV, p less than 0.05). Similar observations were made at frequencies greater than 40 Hz (10 +/- 3 vs 7 +/- 1 microV, p less than 0.05). These differences appeared to be confined to the third quarter of the P wave (third quarter root-mean-square voltage at greater than 40 Hz expressed as a ratio of total P-wave root-mean-square voltage, 1.4 +/- 0.1 vs 1.2 +/- 0.1, p = 0.005). Spatial velocity was also increased in the paroxysmal AF group (peak spatial velocity 6.4 +/- 1.8 vs 4.6 +/- 0.5 mV/s, p less than 0.05). These observations support previous intracardiac data that implicate delay and fragmentation of intraatrial conduction in the pathogenesis of paroxysmal AF. 
Evolution of the treatment of the injured colon in the 1980s. During the past 10 years, 1006 patients with colon injuries were treated in an urban trauma center. Primary repair, including suture repair and resection with anastomosis, was performed in 614 patients (61%), colostomy in 284 patients (28%), and exteriorized repairs in 83 patients (8.3%). In the remaining 25 patients (2.5%) who were exsanguinating, the colon injuries were ligated. Independent risk factors for adverse outcomes (defined as a fecal fistula, abdominal abscess, stomal complication, or death from multisystem failure) were identified using multiple logistic regression analysis. These factors were used to match patients at similar risk within different treatment groups, and odds ratios for each treatment were calculated. The odds ratios for primary repair, colostomy, and exteriorized repair were 1.0, 1.9, and 2.0, respectively. Therefore, the chance of an adverse outcome was twice as great for both exteriorized repair or colostomy as for primary repair. It is concluded that further increases in the use of primary repair are warranted. 
Current and future drugs for acid-peptic disease: a plethora of opinions on possible mechanisms of action. Sixty-seven invited participants involved in the development, evaluation, and use of therapies for acid-peptic disorders participated in a meeting to discuss the scientific basis for healing actions of ulcer drugs and the prospects for future developments ("Realities of Mucosal Protection in the Upper Gastrointestinal Tract," Lausanne, Switzerland, November 8-10, 1987). Eighty-one key statements were prepared and subsequently analyzed on the basis of a voting system. Of the 45 statements that dealt with existing therapies, only 3 statements showed positive consensus (agreement of two-thirds or more of voters) about mechanisms of ulcer healing. Participants agreed that both (1) hydrogen/potassium adenosine triphosphatase inhibitors and (2) histamine H2 antagonists healed ulcers solely by acid inhibition, and (3) that sucralfate works by topical action. Substantial uncertainty about the mechanisms by which bismuth compounds and antacids heal ulcers was noted as well as their wide range of effects. The mechanism of ulcer healing by prostaglandins and the clinical relevance of antiulcer effects of drugs demonstrated in acute studies with animals were also controversial. There was greater agreement among participants about unexplored drug effects that might produce ulcer healing. Of the 36 such mechanisms surveyed, the most support went to therapies aimed at enhancement of mucosal blood flow, epithelial restitution, and mucosal alkaline secretion or inhibition of luminal pepsin activity. The diversity of opinions among participants suggests a high level of empiricism in the development of ulcer healing drugs apart from those that inhibit acid secretion. This empiricism probably arises from inadequate understanding of processes of mucosal injury and repair. 
von Willebrand factor and animal models: contributions to gene therapy, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, and coronary artery thrombosis. Use of animal models of von Willebrand factor (vWF) deficiency, both inherited and induced, continues to advance the knowledge of vWF-related diseases. Three examples are reviewed in this article--von Willebrand's disease (vWD), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, and coronary artery thrombosis. The success of gene transfer by liver and bone marrow transplantation in porcine vWD and canine hemophilia A, with a change in phenotype that establishes improved hemostasis, portends imminent testing of gene therapy in these models. With use of recombinant technology, the phenotype of hemophilia B fibroblasts has been transformed to normal, as evidenced by secretion of the normal hemostatically active protein. This result is a prelude to implantation in hemophilic animals. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is characterized by qualitative and quantitative alterations in vWF. A new animal model induced by the venom factor botrocetin, a cofactor of vWF, closely mimics the human syndrome. A proposed pathophysiologic mechanism for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is outlined. The third contribution is recognition that occlusive coronary thrombosis is a vWF-dependent condition. Without vWF, as in porcine vWD or normal pigs treated with a monoclonal anti-vWF antibody, occlusive thrombi do not develop, even with luminal stenosis. The thrombogenicity of coronary atheromas, including those with fissures of the fibrous cap, is also vWF-dependent. 
Persistent platelet activation by passivated grafts. Vascular grafts in canines exhibit similar healing patterns to humans in that the graft surface forms a pseudointima over time but endothelializes only near the anastomotic sites. Thus the pseudointima at the midportion of the graft may represent a nidus for persistent platelet activation. The purpose of this investigation was to examine the effect of the maturing graft surface on platelet activation. Long Dacron subcutaneous carotid to aorta grafts (50 cm x 8 mm) were placed in nine dogs. Blood samples were obtained by direct graft puncture, at the proximal and distal ends of the graft, at 1, 24, 48, 72 hours, 1, 2, 3, 4 weeks, and monthly thereafter for 8 months. Seven sham dogs had subcutaneous grafts implanted without arterial anastomoses, and blood samples were drawn from the femoral artery. Platelet counts were determined with a platelet counter. Platelet aggregation and release of adenosine triphosphate was determined with a whole blood aggregometer by use of arachidonic acid, collagen, and adenosine diphosphate as agonists. No difference was found in platelet aggregation to collagen or adenosine diphosphate stimulation across the graft, but platelets released significantly less adenosine triphosphate to collagen and adenosine diphosphate stimulation distally versus proximally. In the graft dogs a decrease in systemic platelet counts of 50% occurred from the preoperative level which persisted over 8 months (p less than 0.01). Also less response occurred to collagen and ADP stimulated platelet aggregation in the graft animals than the sham animals during the first month of study. These data suggest that significant platelet-graft interactions occur even after the graft has formed a mature pseudointima. 
Evaluation of different systems for clinical quantification of varicose veins. One hundred twenty-five lower limbs with varicose veins were studied clinically, essentially by palpation. Two specialists in venous pathology scored the severity of the varicose veins from 0 to 20. Comparison between the different clinical parameters and the scores of the specialists showed that two systems of clinical quantification gave good results and were easy to use. One system is the maximum diameter of the largest varicose vein; the other system is the sum of maximum diameters over 7 sections (3 for thigh, 3 for leg, 1 for foot). This latter system gives a more precise evaluation of the clinical severity of the varicose veins. 
Recurrent classic migraine attacks following transdermal scopolamine intoxication. A 20 year old male naval crew-member suffering from sea sickness was treated with transdermal scopolamine (TS). After 5 months of continuous treatment, he developed scopolamine intoxication followed by the appearance of recurrent classic migraine attacks. He had never suffered from headache or migraine prior to TS intoxication. The migraine attacks comprised a prodrome of apathy, bad mood and loss of appetite lasting several hours. An aura of scintillating spots, left arm numbness and paresthesias lasting several minutes was followed by a severe throbbing unilateral headache with photophobia, sonophobia and nausea. After one year of repeated follow-up examination, he continued to suffer from the attacks once every 10 to 14 days, with no identified precipitating factors. We are not aware of similar cases in the medical literature. Although it is not possible to establish TS intoxication as a causal effect of the appearance of classic migraine in our patient, the temporal association and clinical course are very supportive of this assumption. Central nervous system neurotransmitter imbalance of cardiovascular alterations may possibly be implicated. 
Should elective endoscopic sphincterotomy replace cholecystectomy for the treatment of high-risk patients with gallstone pancreatitis? [editorial] Since the introduction of endoscopic sphincterotomy approximately 15 years ago, the indications for this procedure have expanded. Currently endoscopic sphincterotomy is the procedure of choice for management of retained common bile duct stones following cholecystectomy. It is also being used more frequently for choledocholithiasis with an intact gallbladder in high-risk patients and in some patients with acute gallstone pancreatitis. In patients recovering from an episode of gallstone pancreatitis, standard practice has been subsequent cholecystectomy with possible exploration of the common bile duct. To avoid surgery in high-risk patients, we propose that an elective endoscopic sphincterotomy may be a reasonable therapeutic option regardless of whether common bile duct stones are present at the time of ERCP. A prospective trial is needed to examine this issue since to date there is no literature on endoscopic sphincterotomy in the absence of choledocholithiasis for gallstone pancreatitis in patients with intact gallbladders. 
A case of chronic mountain sickness diagnosed by routine pulmonary function tests. In summary, this is a patient who presented with respiratory acidosis and cor pulmonale. The major diagnostic challenge was in differentiating primary cardiopulmonary disease from a central abnormality of ventilatory drive. The arterial blood gases showed a normal A-a gradient suggesting hypoventilation as the etiology of his hypoxemia. Pulmonary function testing showed air trapping, but a relatively normal FEV1/FVC and airways resistance. The literature suggests that most altitude natives have depressed hypoxemic and hypercapnic drives with a distinct subset demonstrating a profoundly depressed drive to ventilation. This latter group has been labeled as having chronic mountain sickness or Monge's disease. As one might expect, ventilatory control during sleep is also abnormal in these patients with CMS. Our patient indeed showed typical frequent severe desaturations with hypopnea. The diagnosis of CMS in our patient was made with routine arterial blood gases and standard pulmonary function tests. Additional tests of ventilatory responsiveness to oxygen and carbon dioxide could have been performed, but are not necessary to make the diagnosis. 
Possible deletion of a developmentally regulated heavy-chain variable region gene in autoimmune diseases. Several autoantibody-associated variable region (V) genes are preferentially expressed during early ontogenic development, suggesting strongly that they are of developmental and physiological importance. As such, it is possible that polymorphisms in one or more of these genes may alter susceptibility to autoimmune disease. We have searched extensively for a probe related to a developmentally regulated V gene that has the power to differentiate among highly homologous V genes in human populations. Using such a probe (i.e., Humhv3005/P1) related to both anti-DNA and anti-IgG autoantibodies, we studied restriction fragment length polymorphisms in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus and found an apparent heavy-chain V (VH) gene deletion that was nearly restricted to the autoimmune patients. These data suggest that deletions of physiologically important VH genes may increase the risk of autoimmunity through indirect effects on the development and homeostasis of the B-cell repertoire. 
Routine programmed electrical stimulation in survivors of acute myocardial infarction for prediction of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias during follow-up: results, optimal stimulation protocol and cost-effective screening Of 3,286 consecutive patients treated for acute myocardial infarction, electrophysiologic testing was performed in 1,209 survivors (37%) free of significant complications at the time of hospital discharge to determine their risk of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias during follow-up. Sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was inducible by programmed electrical stimulation in 75 (6.2%). Antiarrhythmic therapy was not routinely prescribed regardless of the test results. During the 1st year of follow-up, 14 infarct survivors (19%) with inducible ventricular tachycardia experienced spontaneous ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation in the absence of new ischemia compared with 34 (2.9%) of those without inducible ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.0005). During the extended follow-up period (median 28 months) of those with inducible ventricular tachycardia, 19 (25%) had a spontaneous electrical event; 37% of these first events were fatal. These results suggest that the most cost-effective strategy for predicting arrhythmia will be obtained by restricting electrophysiologic testing to infarct survivors whose left ventricular ejection fraction is less than 40% and using a stimulation protocol containing four extrastimuli. Electrophysiologic testing is the single best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias during follow-up in infarct survivors. The majority (94%) with a negative test benefit from the more reliable reassurance that all is well, whereas the 25% risk of electrical events in those with inducible ventricular tachycardia justifies a prospective trial of effective prophylactic antiarrhythmic interventions. 
Digital rectal examination and carcinoma of the prostate. Urologists have considered themselves to be the experts in the use of digital rectal examination for the evaluation of diseases of the prostate. However, without close attention to the teaching of this examination, it probably is inaccurate and unreliable. Moreover, many patients who are destined to die of prostate cancer never develop a palpable abnormality. In patients with prostate cancer, a palpable abnormality usually indicates the presence of carcinoma, but the majority of patients will be upstaged by pathologic examination. In patients undergoing a digitally guided biopsy, it appears critical that those with a negative biopsy be followed closely, as they have a measurable risk of developing overt carcinoma. It is unclear how transrectal ultrasound will interface with digital rectal examination because of the multiple echo patterns this disease can exhibit. 
Prevalence and treatment of giardiasis in chronic diarrhoea and malnutrition. To determine the prevalence of giardiasis in Gambian children with chronic diarrhoea and to assess their response to treatment, 31 children with chronic diarrhoea and malnutrition were investigated for giardiasis using a combination of serology (specific antigiardia IgM antibody) and microscopy of faeces and jejunal biopsy specimens. Fourteen of 31 children with chronic diarrhoea had giardiasis compared with only four of 33 healthy age and sex matched control children. Four of 15 malnourished children without diarrhoea were giardia positive. Twenty-three children with chronic diarrhoea were reinvestigated after treatment with metronidazole; giardia was found in 11 of them. These results show that giardia is highly prevalent in children with chronic diarrhoea and malnutrition and that the infection does not respond to standard therapeutic measures. 
Quantitative cervical flexor strength in healthy subjects and in subjects with mechanical neck pain. Although weakness of anterior cervical muscles is postulated to contribute to persistent neck pain in patients with mechanical neck pain, quantitation of weakness has never been reported. We compared anterior cervical muscle strength in 30 subjects with mechanical neck pain and in 30 asymptomatic control subjects. Testing was performed with the subject supine, chin retracted, and neck flexed. Assessment was made using a hand-held dynamometer with head held at the midline and with rotation left and right within a pain-free range. Analysis with Wilcoxon scores showed that patients with neck pain had significantly less (p less than .05) strength (N.Kg-1) in all three positions than controls (1.16 +/- 0.49 vs 1.71 +/- 0.42, sagittally; 1.01 +/- 0.52 vs 1.47 +/- 0.41, rotation left; .99 +/- 0.46 vs 1.43 +/- 0.43 rotation right; neck pain vs control, respectively.) This weakness and its role in persistent neck pain should be recognized. The efficiency and effect of cervical muscle strengthening in treatment of chronic neck pain should be further defined. 
A phase I, II study of high-dose 5-fluorouracil and high-dose leucovorin with low-dose phosphonacetyl-L-aspartic acid in patients with advanced malignancies. Twenty-eight patients with refractory advanced malignancies were treated with a 24-hour infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV), and N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartic acid (PALA) weekly. Twenty-seven patients were evaluable to assess toxicity and antitumor activity. The PALA was administered as an intravenous bolus over 15 minutes at a fixed dose (250 mg/m2) 24 hours before the start of the 5-FU and leucovorin infusions. Initially the dose of 5-FU was 750 mg/m2; this was increased incrementally to 2600 mg/m2. The LV was administered in a fixed dose of 500 mg/m2 concurrently with the 5-FU over a 24-hour period. This regimen was repeated weekly. Diarrhea, stomatitis, nausea, and vomiting were among the dose-limiting toxicities. Others were hand-foot syndrome, hair loss of the scalp and eyelashes, overall weakness, rhinitis, and chemical conjunctivitis. The maximum tolerated dose of 5-FU in this combination and schedule was 2600 mg/m2. Seven of 14 patients treated with 2600 mg/m2 were able to tolerate the chemotherapy on a weekly basis without interruption. The other seven patients required dose reductions, but most received 5-FU at a dose of 2100 mg/m2. Twenty-three of 27 patients were treated previously. Eight patients had a partial response; five of these were treated previously. A complete response was observed in one patient with pancreatic carcinoma, previously untreated. The overall response rate for patients treated with 2100 or 2600 mg/m2 of 5-FU was nine of 18 patients (50%). Three of four previously untreated patients with pancreatic cancer responded to this treatment (two responded partially, and one had a complete response). One of three heavily pretreated patients with non-small cell lung cancer had a partial response as did a patient with breast cancer. Four of ten patients with colorectal cancer responded to the treatment (four partial responses), of whom three had been treated previously. 
Anemia and postoperative apnea in former preterm infants. To examine the association between anemia and postoperative apnea in former preterm infants, 24 former preterm infants of less than 60 weeks postconceptual age undergoing inguinal hernia repair were studied. A hematocrit of at least 25% was required for study participation. General endotracheal inhalational anesthesia, supplemented with neuromuscular blockade and controlled ventilation, was used. No barbiturates or opioids were administered. Respiratory pattern and heart rate were recorded for at least 12 h postoperatively using an impedance pneumograph. Tracings were analyzed for evidence of apnea, periodic breathing, and/or bradycardia by a pulmonologist unaware of the hematologic profile of the infant. Nineteen patients had a hematocrit of 30% or greater (group 1). Their mean (+/- standard deviation [SD]) gestational age was 33.5 +/- 2.7 weeks and postconceptual age 45.5 +/- 4.6 weeks. Five infants had a hematocrit less than 30% (group 2). Their mean gestational age (+/- SD) was 32.4 +/- 3.2 weeks and postconceptual age 43.6 +/- 5.5 weeks. Anemic infants had an 80% incidence of postoperative apnea versus 21% in infants with a normal hematocrit (P less than .03). In the infants who developed postoperative prolonged apnea and/or bradycardia, a prior history of apnea was equally present in both groups (21% in group 1 and 20% in group 2). This study shows that anemia in former preterm infants can be associated with an increased incidence of postoperative apnea. 
Acute inflammation: the underlying mechanism in delayed onset muscle soreness? It is well documented in animal and human research that unaccustomed eccentric muscle action of sufficient intensity and/or duration causes disruption of connective and/or contractile tissue. In humans, this appears to be associated with the sensation of delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). During the late 1970's, it was proposed that this sensation of soreness might be associated with the acute inflammatory response. However, subsequent research failed to substantiate this theory. The present article suggests that the results of much of the research concerning DOMS reflect events typically seen in acute inflammation. Similarities between the two events include: the cardinal symptoms of pain, swelling, and loss of function; evidence of cellular infiltrates, especially the macrophage; biochemical markers such as increased lysosomal activity and increased circulating levels of some of the acute phase proteins; and histological changes during the initial 72 h. In the final section of this paper, a theoretical sequence of events is proposed, based on research involving acute inflammation and DOMS. 
Medical evaluation of internationally adopted children. BACKGROUND. Despite many reports of medical illness in children adopted from abroad, there are currently no accepted guidelines for medical evaluation of this population. METHODS. Two hundred ninety-three children adopted from 15 countries (mean age, 14.0 months; 55 percent girls) were evaluated by history taking, physical examination, and screening tests for hepatitis B virus (HBV), human immunodeficiency virus type 1, tuberculin reactivity, intestinal parasites, syphilis, excretion of cytomegalovirus, renal disease, and anemia. All but four were seen within one month of their arrival in the United States. RESULTS. Fifty-seven percent of the children (168 of 293) were found to have at least one important medical condition. Eighty-one percent of the diagnoses were established by screening test, rather than by history taking or physical examination. Infectious diseases made up the majority of the medical conditions (73 percent). Serologic testing for hepatitis B surface antigen was positive in 5 percent of the children. Characteristics associated with the acquisition of HBV infection included arrival within the first three years of the study (P = 0.017), Asian origin (P = 0.011), and receipt of a blood transfusion abroad (P = 0.008). Ten children (3 percent) had positive Mantoux skin tests, and four of these had active pulmonary tuberculosis. Tuberculin reactivity was significantly associated with older age (P less than 0.001) and lower weight (P = 0.037). Intestinal parasites were isolated from 14 percent of the international adoptees. Non-Korean adoptees were 16 times more likely to be harboring at least one intestinal parasite than were Korean adoptees (P = 0.005). CONCLUSIONS. Directed screening tests should be a routine component of the medical evaluation of all children adopted from abroad, regardless of age, sex, or country of origin. 
A limitation of endoscopic ultrasound: an unusual case of early gastric cancer overlying a pancreatic rest. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been developed as a valuable tool for examining the depth of carcinoma invasion and evaluating the submucosal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. In the present case, that of a 60-yr-old woman, the work-up of radiography and conventional endoscopy revealed an ulcerating cancer of the stomach. Subsequent EUS showed a solid high-echoic mass occupying the third (submucosal) and fourth (muscularis propria) layers of gastric wall, suggestive of an advanced cancer invading the muscularis propria. However, histologic examination of the surgical specimen showed that this tumor was early submucosal carcinoma confined to the surface of a pancreatic rest. Retrospective evaluation of EUS pictures proved that the mass had tubular or circular echoless structures associated with thickening of the fourth layer, suggesting the pancreatic rest. Our experience in reviewing EUS findings of this tumor seems noteworthy, inasmuch as EUS indicates that EUS may provide certain characteristic features of gastric pancreatic rest that should be differentiated from invading carcinoma. 
Acidic polyamino acids inhibit human eosinophil granule major basic protein toxicity. Evidence of a functional role for ProMBP. Eosinophil granule major basic protein (MBP), a potent toxin for helminths and mammalian cells in vitro, is a single polypeptide chain rich in arginine. MBP has been localized on damaged helminths and tissues in hypersensitivity diseases including bronchial asthma. The MBP cDNA indicates that MBP is translated as a slightly acidic preproprotein with an acidic propart. To test the hypothesis that the acidic pro-part of proMBP inhibits the toxicity of mature MBP, acidic polyamino acids (aa) were used as antagonists of MBP toxicity to K562 cells and guinea pig tracheal epithelium and used as antagonists of MBP airway hyperresponsiveness in primates. The acidic poly aa inhibited MBP toxicity and MBP airway hyperresposiveness. The acidic poly aa inhibited MBP toxicity in a charge-dependent manner similar to that proposed for proMBP, suggesting that the acidic pro-part of proMBP functions to mask mature MBP toxicity. This inhibition was not limited to MBP, but also applied to polyarginine and eosinophil cationic protein. These acidic poly aa may be useful to inhibit the actions of a number of cationic toxins released by the eosinophil in numerous hypersensitivity diseases. 
Role of oxygen-derived free radicals in myocardial edema and ischemia in coronary microvascular embolization BACKGROUND. Oxygen-derived free radicals are thought to injure the ischemic heart during coronary microvascular embolization. METHODS AND RESULTS. To test this idea, microspheres (15 microns in diameter) were repetitively administered into the left anterior descending coronary artery to cause microvascular embolization in dogs. Myocardial contractile and metabolic dysfunctions were significantly attenuated after treatments with recombinant human superoxide dismutase, an acyl derivative of ascorbic acid (CV3611, 2-O-octadecylascorbic acid), and xanthine oxidase inhibitor (allopurinol). The free radical scavengers and inhibitor enhanced the coronary hyperemic flow response during embolization, and the total number of microspheres causing maximal embolization was increased by these drugs. When 8-phenyltheophylline was additionally administered with superoxide dismutase, these beneficial effects were abolished, indicating that coronary effects of these drugs may be due to increased release of adenosine during coronary microvascular embolization. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that oxygen radicals worsen the ischemic injury in coronary microembolization. 
Mechanisms of disease in Hantavirus infection: pathophysiology of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome. Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is an acute viral disease that occurs over wide areas of Europe and Asia. Hantaviruses are the cause of this syndrome. The hallmark of HFRS is the triad of fever, hemorrhage, and renal failure. In its severe form it is associated with significant mortality. The syndrome evolves through five phases: febrile, hypotensive, oliguric, diuretic, and convalescent. The central physiologic derangement in HFRS is vascular dysfunction, manifested by impaired vascular tone and increased vascular permeability. The systemic effects of this dysfunction account for the occurrence of hypotension and shock, while local effects are probably important in the development of renal failure. Shock in HFRS has distributive and oligemic features, while renal failure has features of acute tubular necrosis. Hemorrhage is a consequence of vascular injury and a deficit of functional platelets. Vascular and platelet dysfunction are both compounded by uremia. Disseminated intravascular coagulation contributes to hemorrhage in some patients. Although hantaviruses are infectious for endothelial cells and may cause direct injury, a large body of evidence suggests that immune mechanisms play an important role in the pathogenesis of HFRS. 
Treatment of aplastic anemia with antilymphocyte globulin and methylprednisolone with or without cyclosporine. The German Aplastic Anemia Study Group BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Immunosuppression is the most effective treatment for patients with aplastic anemia, except for bone marrow transplantation. The best results are achieved with antilymphocyte globulin or cyclosporine. Patients have been treated successfully with a combination of both agents, but there has been no controlled evaluation of its efficacy. We conducted a randomized, multicenter trial in 84 patients not eligible for bone marrow transplantation, comparing treatment with antilymphocyte globulin and methylprednisolone (41 patients--the control group) with antilymphocyte globulin, methylprednisolone, and cyclosporine (43 patients--the cyclosporine group). RESULTS. At three months significantly more patients in the cyclosporine group had a complete or partial remission in response to treatment than did patients in the control group (65 percent vs. 39 percent, P less than 0.03); this difference was confirmed at six months (70 percent vs. 46 percent, P less than 0.05). The superior results of the regimen including cyclosporine were most evident in the patients with severe or very severe aplastic anemia, whose response rate at six months was 65 percent, as compared with 31 percent of such patients in the control group (P less than 0.02). Granulocyte and hemoglobin levels became normal in most patients who responded, but platelet counts continued to be subnormal in 61 percent of the patients. Ten of 52 patients with responses (3 in the cyclosporine group and 7 in the control group) relapsed 4 to 37 months after treatment. The actuarial survival of all patients at 41 months is 64 percent in the cyclosporine group and 58 percent in the control group (P = 0.16); among the patients with severe or very severe disease, survival is 80 percent and 44 percent, respectively (P = 0.077). Cyclosporine had substantial but reversible side effects. CONCLUSIONS. Immunosuppressive treatment of aplastic anemia with antilymphocyte globulin, methylprednisolone, and cyclosporine appears to be more effective than a regimen of antilymphocyte globulin and methylprednisolone without cyclosporine and may thus represent a treatment of choice for patients who are not eligible for bone marrow transplantation. 
Isolated calf venous thrombosis: diagnosis with compression US. Compression ultrasound (US) is an excellent means of evaluating the femoral and popliteal veins but is generally regarded as inadequate for the diagnosis of calf vein thrombosis. This prospective study evaluated compression sonography of the calf veins in 45 symptomatic patients with normal femoral and popliteal veins. All patients underwent correlative venography. Compression US enabled identification of 15 of 17 patients with calf vein thrombosis (sensitivity, 88%). The two false-negative results were in patients with small isolated thrombi. Compression US results were true-negative in 26 of 27 patients with normal venograms (specificity, 96%). If these results can be duplicated by other investigators in larger series of patients, compression US will be an adequate screening modality for calf vein thrombosis. 
Talc granulomatosis presenting as spontaneous pneumothorax. Spontaneous pneumothorax has been described in association with conglomerate masses and bullous disease in end-stage talc granulomatosis. Our case demonstrates that pneumothorax can occur earlier in the course of the disease before these end-stage radiographic changes are present. 
Site-directed mutagenesis of lysine within the immunodominant autoepitope of PDC-E2. The major autoantigens of PBC have been identified as the four closely related mitochondrial enzymes PDC-E2, BCKD-E2 OGDC-E2 and protein X. A major structural similarity of these enzymes is the presence of one or more lipoyl domains. The immunodominant epitope of each autoantigen has either been postulated or been demonstrated to be located within the lipoate binding region. However, it is not clear whether the binding of lipoic acid to the epitope is necessary for autoantibody recognition. To address this issue we have constructed by oligonucleotide site-directed mutatagenesis three mutants in the lipoyl domain of human PDC-E2. Because lipoic acid is covalently bound to the zeta-amino group of the lysine residue of PDC-E2, the mutants were designed to replace the lysine residue in the lipoyl domain with glutamine, a negatively charged amino acid; histidine, a positively charged amino acid; and tyrosine, an aromatic amino acid. Binding reactivity of sera from patients with PBC were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunoblotting and specific absorption against each of the three mutants and control clones. All data were compared with parallel studies with a control recombinant clone, the liver-specific F alloantigen. We believe the recognition of the lipoyl domain is a reflection of the surface-exposed, hydrophilic and relatively mobile nature of this region of the autoantigen. Further studies on direct assay for the presence of lipoic acid will be needed to clarify these issues. 
Detection of minimal residual disease in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia using polymerase chain reaction predicts impending relapse. After achieving remission, approximately one-third of patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) relapse due to the resurgence of residual leukemic cells that cannot be detected in remission by morphologic methods. Thus, the early detection of residual disease is highly desirable to monitor the efficacy of therapy, or to institute an alternative mode of therapy. Toward this aim, we have examined the applicability of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification in the detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) in bone marrow samples from patients with T-ALL in morphologic remission. Two different approaches were taken to identify leukemic clone-specific sequences that could be used as targets for PCR amplification. The first technique used T-cell receptor-delta (TCR-delta) gene rearrangements that were sequenced directly after PCR amplification of leukemic DNA. This method was successful in generating clone-specific probes for 76% of T-ALL patients screened. An alternative method was used to clone and sequence a TCR-beta chain gene from leukemic cells to generate a specific probe. The PCR assays that we used were specific for each patient's leukemic clone, and were capable of routinely detecting one leukemic cell in 10(4) normal cells. Using these sensitive PCR-based assays, we found no evidence for persistence of the leukemic clone in any of the bone marrow samples from four T-ALL patients who are in long-term (3.9 + to 8.1 + years) remission. In contrast, we detected residual disease in clinical remission samples from two patients who subsequently relapsed. In one patient, where we had appropriate samples, we observed a dramatic expansion of the leukemic clone 3 months before clinical relapse. These results suggest that PCR-based assays for detection of MRD in T-ALL patients have great potential in predicting impending relapse, and in determining the efficacy of the anti-leukemic therapy. These methods may also allow the identification of long-term survivors. 
Enhanced antitumor activity in mice after administration of thermosensitive liposome encapsulating cisplatin with hyperthermia. The antitumor effect of cisplatin-(CDDP)-encapsulated thermosensitive large unilamellar liposome (ThLip) administration with hyperthermia (HT) was examined in mice bearing Meth A fibrosarcoma. The tumor Pt levels after ThLip administration were increased in response to HT. The targeting index was approximately 3. The antitumor activity of ThLip + HT, as measured by tumor growth delay or tumor weight inhibition, was larger than that of ThLip without HT or a solution with or without HT. The CDDP dose in ThLip + HT to give equivalent tumor growth delay in solution (40 micrograms/mouse) + HT was about 10 micrograms/mouse, and therefore the targeted drug delivery enhancement ratio was about 4. The ratio correlates with the targeting index. The blood urea nitrogen level, as an indicator of CDDP nephrotoxicity, was increased 7 days after the administration of ThLip (40 micrograms CDDP/mouse) with HT. However, this blood urea nitrogen level rise was independent of the activity enhancement by the liposome. These findings suggest that the HT combined CDDP delivery system using ThLip can decrease the effective CDDP dose, thereby increasing its therapeutic index. 
Contribution of prostaglandins to pressure natriuresis in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. To examine the role of prostaglandins on pressure natriuresis in Dahl salt-sensitive (DS) rat, the pressure-natriuresis relationships in DS and Dahl salt-resistant (DR) rats were characterized with or without indomethacin (2 mg/kg/h) by utilizing an in vivo renal perfusion study. When untreated, in the DS rat the pressure-natriuresis curve was blunted (P less than .05) and excretion of prostaglandin E2 (38 +/- 11 to 109 +/- 43 pg/min) was decreased in comparison to the DR rat. With indomethacin, the pressure-natriuresis curve in the DR rat was blunted, while no significant changes were observed in the DS rat. Plasma renin activity and concentration of atrial natriuretic peptide were not changed by the treatment of indomethacin in both strains. These results suggest that the decrease in renal prostaglandins, at least in prostaglandin E2, plays some role in blunting pressure natriuresis in DS rat. 
Alterations in hepatic lipids and proteins by chronic ethanol intake: a high-pressure Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic study on alcoholic liver disease in the rat. Using high-pressure Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, alterations of hepatic lipids and proteins in alcoholic liver disease of the rat were examined. FT-IR spectra were obtained from the liver tissues of the rats pair-fed a nutritionally adequate liquid diet and ethanol/dextrose via an implanted intragastric tube for 6 months. The pressure on the liver samples was raised up to 10 kbar, taking FT-IR spectra at regular increments as the pressure was raised. Total lipids measured by the band derived from the stretching mode of carbonyl groups in lipid (v C = O) were increased 4 times in the liver of ethanol-fed rats (E) compared with the pair-fed control rats (C). The frequency of the C = O band of E decreased with increasing pressure, which indicated that hydrogen-bonding was present on the C = O groups of lipids in E. The intensity of the CH stretching bond of the HC = CH groups was 2.8 times higher in E than that in C, which means that there was an increase in the population of unsaturated double bonds in acyl chains of lipids in E. The conformational structure of the protein molecules was slightly changed in E. The reactivity of carboxylate side groups in proteins observed by reaction with Ba++ ions was higher in E than that in C. These infrared spectroscopic results suggest that chronic ethanol intake induces not only an increase in the amount of total lipid but also changes the composition of lipids and the conformation of protein molecules in the liver of rats. 
Mutations of chromosome 5q21 genes in FAP and colorectal cancer patients. Previous studies suggested that one or more genes on chromosome 5q21 are responsible for the inheritance of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and Gardner's syndrome (GS), and contribute to tumor development in patients with noninherited forms of colorectal cancer. Two genes on 5q21 that are tightly linked to FAP (MCC and APC) were found to be somatically altered in tumors from sporadic colorectal cancer patients. One of the genes (APC) was also found to be altered by point mutation in the germ line of FAP and GS patients. These data suggest that more than one gene on chromosome 5q21 may contribute to colorectal neoplasia, and that mutations of the APC gene can cause both FAP and GS. The identification of these genes should aid in understanding the pathogenesis of colorectal neoplasia and in the diagnosis and counseling of patients with inherited predispositions to colorectal cancer. 
Failure of vasoldilator infusion to alter pulmonary diffusing capacity in systemic sclerosis. PURPOSE: Patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc) do not exhibit a normal increase in the diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) on assuming the supine position. We sought to determine whether a potent prostacyclin derivative and vasodilator, iloprost, would reverse this defect. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fourteen patients with SSc were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of iloprost. Patients were tested before and during 3 days of iloprost or placebo infusion with both upright and supine pulmonary function studies. RESULTS: The results of baseline pulmonary function studies including DLCO were not significantly altered by iloprost. Furthermore, iloprost did not alter the abnormal postural DLCO response. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the pulmonary vascular defects seen in this group of patients are not a consequence of reversible pulmonary vasospasm. 
Cholecystectomy as a risk factor for colorectal adenomatous polyps and carcinoma. Multiple studies have suggested a possible relationship between prior cholecystectomy and the occurrence of subsequent colorectal carcinoma. This relationship has been particularly noticed among female patients and for right-sided lesions of the colon. In the current study, the authors undertook a case-control study among patients who underwent colonoscopy in three private practices in New York City between April 1986 and March 1988. Over this period, 302 adenomatous polyp cases, 106 colon cancer cases, and 507 controls were interviewed regarding their prior history of cholecystectomy. Overall, no significant association was observed between cholecystectomy and either colorectal adenomatous polyps or cancer. Cholecystectomy does not appear to be a significant risk factor for colorectal neoplasia. 
Role of acid milieu in the gastroprotective and ulcer-healing activity of sucralfate. Sucralfate prevents the formation of acute gastric lesions induced by various ulcerogens and enhances the healing of chronic gastroduodenal ulcerations, but the mechanism of these effects has not been fully explained. This study was designed to determine the importance of intragastric pH in the sucralfate-induced gastroprotection against 100% ethanol, acidified aspirin, taurocholate, or stress, and in the healing of chronic gastroduodenal ulcerations induced by acetic acid. Sucralfate acidified to pH 2.0 showed significantly stronger protective activity against all four irritants, its protective potency against 100% ethanol being about eight times greater and the duration of the protection about four times longer than those obtained with sucralfate at its pH of 5.0. Pretreatment with indomethacin to suppress mucosal generation of prostaglandin or the removal of salivary glands to eliminate the endogenous source of epidermal growth factor failed to affect sucralfate-induced gastroprotection. In contrast, the rate of healing of chronic gastric ulcerations was significantly delayed by indomethacin or sialoadenectomy; but sucralfate enhanced the healing, and a marked inhibition of gastric acid secretion by ranitidine did not eliminate this enhancement. We conclude that the protective activity of sucralfate depends on the presence of acid milieu in the stomach, but that the ulcer-healing effects of this drug occur even after a marked inhibition of gastric acid secretion. 
Causes and correlates of recurrent falls in ambulatory frail elderly. To determine causes and clinical correlates of recurrent falls in ambulatory frail elderly people, we evaluated 70 recurrent fallers and 56 nonfallers (mean age = 87 years) from two long-term care facilities. Evaluations included a detailed history, physical examination, performance-oriented mobility assessment, and laboratory studies. Primary causes including stroke, parkinsonism, blindness, drug-related hypotension, and arthritis were established for the most recent fall in 51 (73%) fallers. Eighteen fallers (26%) had multiple conditions that could not be prioritized for their contribution to the fall. Fallers were more often women, were functionally more impaired, and were taking more medications than nonfallers. Specific diseases did not distinguish fallers from nonfallers. Fallers of both sexes took more steps to turn 360 degrees, could not stand up from a chair without pushing off, had a higher prevalence of antidepressant use, and had impaired position sensation. These easily obtained clinical variables characterized nearly three-quarters of ambulatory elderly nursing home residents with a history of recurrent falls. 
Immunoglobulin response to intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE--To devise assays to assess and follow the specific antibody response in patients treated with streptokinase for acute myocardial infarction. DESIGN--Venous blood samples were collected before treatment with streptokinase started and subsequently at regular intervals over one year. Specific IgG and subclass IgG1 were assessed by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. SETTING--Coronary care unit in a general hospital. PATIENTS--48 patients with acute myocardial infarction: 22 patients had venous blood samples taken at presentation only; serial blood samples were taken from 20 patients who then received thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase and six patients who were unsuitable for thrombolytic therapy. RESULTS--Titres of antibodies to streptokinase were low at presentation in 36 (75%) of the 48 patients. Serial measurements made in 20 patients showed the virtual disappearance of antibody within the first 24 hours. This was followed by a steady increase in the specific IgG1 titre, which peaked at day 14 before gradually declining. Values at one year remained significantly higher than baseline values. There was no evidence of an IgM response in the patients studied. CONCLUSION--Low titres of antibodies to streptokinase were widespread in the population. Antibody was consumed after treatment and the subsequent immunoglobulin rise suggested a secondary immune responses; the recently described neutralising capacity to streptokinase is probably related to this antibody. 
Genetic predisposition to iatrogenic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The spongiform encephalopathy Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) has been transmitted to man via administration of growth hormone and gonadotropin extracted from large pooled batches of human cadaveric pituitary glands. In the UK, 1908 individuals were exposed to potentially contaminated growth hormone, of whom 6 have so far manifested CJD. Examination of the prion protein genes of all these cases and of a single case of gonadotropin-related CJD showed that 4 had the uncommon valine 129 homozygous genotype indicating genetic susceptibility to prion infection. Such genetic susceptibility may be important in the aetiology of sporadic CJD disease. 
Infrared, thermistor, and glass-mercury thermometry for measurement of body temperature in children with cancer. Body temperature is often the sole determinant of whether or not the neutropenic cancer patient is admitted to the hospital for empiric antibiotic therapy. Recently developed infrared tympanic thermometers offer rapid readings, but their accuracy has not been established. We studied two infrared thermometers (FirstTemp and Thermoscan) and a thermistor (IVAC) in children with cancer. Mean infrared measurements did not differ significantly between right and left ear canals, and the mean IVAC temperature did not differ significantly from the left to the right axilla (P greater than 0.05, paired t test). IVAC predictive mode mean temperature was 0.2 degrees C lower than monitor mode mean temperature in the axilla (P less than 0.0001), but 0.1 degree C higher than monitor mode orally (P less than 0.0001). Aiming the infrared instrument at the tympanic membrane using an ear tug resulted in a 0.2 degree C higher mean temperature than casual placement in the ear canal (P less than 0.0001). After compensation for the mean difference in reference oral glass-mercury versus test instrument temperatures, the FirstTemp, Thermoscan, and oral and axillary predictive mode IVAC measurements yielded sensitivities for the detection of fever of 84%, 84%, 82%, and 86%; specificities of 100%, 99%, 100%, and 100%; positive predictive values of 100%, 93%, 100%, and 100%; and negative predictive values of 95%, 98%, 98%, and 98%, respectively. We conclude that each of these instruments detects fever with comparable reliability. Infrared instruments are especially attractive alternatives due to their time efficiency. 
Optimal technique for detection of gallstones at injection cholecystography: in vitro analysis. Injection cholecystography is often employed during invasive gallbladder procedures to determine the number of gallstones that are present. The authors undertook this study to define the optimal radiographic technique for performance of injection cholecystography. Condoms filled with 100 mL of contrast medium at four different iodine concentrations (30%, 15%, 7.5%, and 3.8% [wt/vol]) and containing up to five 4-mm-thick gallstones or a single 10-mm-thick gallstone were radiographed in a 20-cm-deep water bath by using four kilovolt peak settings (70, 80, 90, and 100 kVp). Images were read by three radiologists who were blinded to the radiographic technique. significantly (P less than .05) improved Decreasing iodine concentration significantly (P less than .05) improved detection of 4-mm-thick gallstones at a constant kilovolt peak setting. However, increasing the kilovolt peak setting while using the same concentration of contrast medium had no statistically significant influence on gallstone detectability, although radiologists did indicate a preference for the high-kilovolt peak technique. Results of the authors' experiments showed that for detection of small gallstones at injection cholecystography, use of a low-concentration contrast medium and a high kilovolt peak setting is the recommended radiographic technique. 
Acute colorectal ischaemia after anaphylactoid shock. A 29 year old woman is reported with bloody diarrhoea three hours after developing anaphylactoid shock. Sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, and histology showed rectal and colonic ischaemia to the splenic flexure. Recovery was complete. There was no history of vascular disease but the patient was taking an oral contraceptive. Thirty one other cases of spontaneous ischaemic proctitis are reviewed. 
Expression of c-erbB-2 oncoprotein in mammary and extramammary Paget's disease. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 45 patients with mammary and extramammary Paget's disease were stained immunohistochemically with the use of a polyclonal antiserum directed against a 14-amino acid segment of the c-erbB-2 oncoprotein. Positive membrane staining, which correlates with gene amplification, was found in 15 of 19 cases (79%) of mammary Paget's disease, 4 of 13 cases (31%) of vulvar Paget's disease, none of 8 cases of scrotal Paget's disease, and none of 5 cases of perianal Paget's disease. Of the 19 patients with mammary Paget's disease, specimens of underlying breast tissue were available from 14; all contained a concurrent ductal adenocarcinoma. Concordance of c-erbB-2 antigen staining between the underlying breast carcinoma and the pagetoid component was observed in 12 cases. Of the 13 patients with vulvar Paget's disease, 2 had superficial stromal invasion, and 3 had underlying, deeply invasive adenocarcinomas. One superficially invasive case was positive for c-erbB-2 expression. One additional case of vulvar Paget's disease had an associated primary pagetoid endocervical adenocarcinoma that spread into the endometrium; both the endocervical and vulvar components stained positively for the c-erbB-2 antigen. The results of this study indicate that the c-erbB-2 oncoprotein may play a role in the pathogenesis of extramammary Paget's disease. These results also suggest that the c-erbB-2 oncoprotein may function in vivo to promote intraepithelial spread of adenocarcinoma cells. 
Clinical pathology of endocrine tumors of the pancreas. Analysis of autopsy cases. A clinicopathological analysis of endocrine tumors of the pancreas, using 800 autopsy cases (422 men, 378 women, mean age 78.7) was accomplished. The results were: (1) Endocrine tumors and similar lesions were found in 3% or 24 cases (25 lesions). Twenty lesions (20 cases) were found to be tumors and five lesions (five cases) were determined to be hyperplasia of Langerhans islets. (2) Incidence of tumor was 10% (6/60) in individuals having histological studies of all sections of the pancreas, and 1.6% (12/738) in individuals having histological studies of three random sections of the pancreas. (3) None of the cases with tumors and hyperplastic lesions showed symptoms of hormone production. (4) Immunohistochemical analysis revealed hormone production in all 20 tumor cases and multiple hormone production was found in 14 of these (70%). (5) Ductular or tubular structures were found in or adjacent to the tumors in 12 cases (60%) and hyperplasia in one case (20%). Langerhans islets, 500 microns or larger in size, were found in three lesions of the tumor (15%). Langerhans islets with the mean diameter of normal islets + 2 SD or larger also were found around five tumors (25%) and three hyperplasias (60%). The above findings suggest that endocrine tumors of the pancreas are prevalent and that they do not produce symptoms of excessive hormone production even though they do continue to produce hormones. Some of the endocrine tumors or hyperplasias develop from totipotent stem cells of the duct epithelia, and factors promoting the growth of Langerhans islets might exist. 
Mechanisms of plasma membrane protein degradation: recycling proteins are degraded more rapidly than those confined to the cell surface. Plasma membrane proteins of intact mouse 3T3 fibroblasts and H4-II-E-C3 hepatoma cells were separated into two groups based on their compartmentation between the cell surface and an intracellular compartment accessible at 20 degrees C but not at 0 degrees C. One group was derivatized at 0 degrees C with sulfosuccinimidyl 2-(biotinamido)ethyl-1,3-dithiopropionate but not at 20 degrees C. The second group was derivatized at 20 degrees C as well as at 0 degrees C. Derivatized proteins were isolated from 35S-labeled cells on streptavidin/agarose and resolved by two-dimensional PAGE. With few exceptions, pulse-chase experiments revealed that those proteins confined exclusively to the cell surface turned over slowly (t1/2, greater than 75 h), while those bimodally compartmentalized between the cell surface and the 20 degrees C accessible compartment were degraded more rapidly (t1/2, less than 31 h). These observations suggest a mechanism to explain the varied metabolic stability of plasma membrane proteins in which the half-life of each protein is determined by the proportion of time spent in the endocytic compartment. 
Long-term postoperative dysphagia in oral/pharyngeal surgery patients: subjects' perceptions vs. videofluoroscopic observations. Dysphagia commonly results from surgical resection of various structures within the oral, pharyngeal, and esophageal areas. The type and severity of swallowing dysfunction are based largely on the number and quantity of structures removed as well as the reconstructive procedure. Short term-recovery has been addressed in many studies. However, follow-up studies of long-term functional results and continuing swallowing problems following oral/pharyngeal surgery are unavailable. In this study, perception of swallowing dysfunction was compared with actual videofluoroscopic findings in subjects at least 1 year after oral/pharyngeal surgery. The comparative results of a questionnaire developed to evaluate patients' perception of continuing swallowing difficulty and an analysis of actual videofluoroscopic tapes indicated that the degree or type of dysphagia could not be determined from patients' subjective descriptions of the swallowing problem. 
Role of candida in pathogenesis of antibiotic-associated diarrhoea in elderly inpatients The part that candida plays in antibiotic-associated diarrhoea was investigated in 24 elderly inpatients (mean age 74 years) who tested negative for Clostridium difficile toxin and other intestinal pathogens. 7 had intestinal overgrowth of Candida species (greater than or equal to 10(5) cfu/ml). None of the 24 matched, antibiotic-treated controls without diarrhoea had candida overgrowth. All 5 patients with diarrhoea and candida overgrowth treated with oral nystatin responded with resolution of diarrhoea and lowering of faecal counts to less than 10(4) cfu/ml within 7 days of start of antifungal therapy despite continuation of antibacterial therapy. In the other 2 patients with candida overgrowth, the diarrhoea subsided spontaneously and faecal candida counts returned to normal (less than 10(4) cfu/ml) after antibacterial agents were withdrawn. In patients without candida overgrowth, diarrhoea persisted until antibiotics were withdrawn, at a mean of 16 days after study entry. 
Differential expression of markers for endothelial cells, pericytes, and basal lamina in the microvasculature of tumors and granulation tissue. The structure and function of the tumor microvasculature is of great interest for cancer biology, diagnosis, and therapy. The distribution of endothelial cells, pericytes, and basal lamina in tumors is not well documented. In this study, the authors investigated the distribution of markers for these different components in a series of malignant human tumors and in human granulation tissue, both situations with extensive angiogenesis. Their results show a striking heterogeneity in the expression of markers for pericytes and endothelial cells between different tumors, but also within a single tumor lesion. To be able to distinguish between these two adjacent cell types decisively, all marker studies were carried out both on the light and the electron microscopical level and compared with staining results in granulation tissue of cutaneous wounds in healthy volunteers and of decubitus lesions. In granulation tissue of decubitus lesions, well-defined zones with increasing levels of maturation can be delineated. It was found that antibodies recognizing von Willebrand factor often failed to stain the tumor capillaries. Of the pericyte markers, alpha-smooth muscle actin was only locally expressed by pericytes in the tumor vasculature, whereas the high-molecular-weight melanoma-associated antigen, a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, stained the microvasculature broadly. Staining of the basal lamina components collagen type IV and laminin was, within the tumor, not restricted to the microvasculature. From their findings the authors conclude that 1) for the visualization of the tumor vasculature, antibodies recognizing endothelial markers, especially monoclonal antibodies PAL-E and BMA 120, are preferable to those recognizing pericytes or basal lamina; 2) within the microvasculature of tumors and granulation tissue, a heterogeneity of expression of endothelial and pericyte markers is observed; 3) during the formation of granulation tissue, all three microvascular components can be demonstrated already in the histologically earliest stage, suggesting not only an involvement of endothelial cells but also of pericytes and basal lamina in the initial steps of angiogenesis in wound healing. 
Adult tonsillectomy. One hundred consecutive adult patients having tonsillectomy were carefully analysed with regard to preoperative history, operative findings and pathology. Follow-up was made at 1 and 3-year intervals, with particular reference to the patient's view of the outcome. Results of operation were compared with the clinical course of 100 age and sex-matched controls who had been on the waiting list for tonsillectomy for 2 or more years. These results are presented and a case is made for tonsillectomy in young adults as a valid and cost-effective procedure. 
Positron emission tomography in progressive supranuclear palsy. Positron emission tomography with 6-[18F]fluoro-L-dopa (6-FD) provides in vivo information on the function of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. We used 6-FD and positron emission tomography to investigate the integrity of the nigrostriatal system in seven patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. All patients had axial hypertonia, vertical gaze palsy, and parkinsonian features. Dementia, pyramidal signs, and ataxia were seen in varying proportions. We analyzed the scans with a graphic method to calculate a steady-state 6-FD uptake rate constant for the whole striatum. Results were compared with those obtained in seven age-matched controls. As a group, the patients with progressive supranuclear palsy had reduced 6-FD uptake constants. The 6-FD uptake constant correlated inversely with the duration of the disease. Normal positron emission tographic findings in one patient with the shortest duration of symptoms suggests that in early progressive supranuclear palsy, parkinsonism may relate to dysfunction distal to the dopaminergic neurons. 
Cloning of a cellular factor, interleukin binding factor, that binds to NFAT-like motifs in the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) gene expression is regulated by both general transcription factors and factors induced by activation of T lymphocytes such as NF-kappa B and the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT). Within the HIV long terminal repeat (LTR), two purine-rich domains between nucleotides -283 and -195 have homology to a regulatory region found in the interleukin 2 promoter, which binds NFAT and other cellular factors. In the HIV LTR, this region has been demonstrated to have both positive and negative regulatory effects on HIV gene expression. In an attempt to clone genes encoding cellular factors that bind to these NFAT-like elements in the HIV LTR, we used lambda gt11 expression cloning with oligonucleotides corresponding to these binding motifs. A ubiquitously expressed cDNA encoding a 60-kDa protein, which we termed interleukin binding factor (ILF), binds specifically to these purine-rich motifs in the HIV LTR. This factor also binds to similar purine-rich motifs in the interleukin 2 promoter, through with lower affinity than to HIV LTR sequences. Sequence analysis reveals that the DNA binding domain of ILF has strong homology to the recently described fork head DNA binding domain found in the Drosophila homeotic protein fork head and a family of hepatocyte nuclear factors, HNF-3. Other domains found in ILF include a nucleotide binding site, an N-glycosylation motif, a signal for ubiquitin-mediated degradation, and a potential nuclear localization signal. These results describe a DNA binding protein that may be involved in both positive and negative regulation of important viral and cellular promoter elements. 
A comparison of multilesion percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in elderly patients (greater than 70 years) and younger subjects. Results of multilesion percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) were compared in 210 elderly patients (70 to 92 years, [group I] and 210 younger patients (40 to 69 years, [group II]. The elderly patients included more women (43% versus 24%) and patients with unstable angina (73% versus 55%). PTCA was successful in 87% of lesions in group I and in 94% in group II (p less than 0.001). Only circumflex artery dilatation was less successful in group I (78% versus 91%, p less than 0.002). PTCA was successful in all lesions of at least one vessel in 89% of group I patients and in 94% of group II patients (p less than 0.06). Successful dilatation of all lesions was achieved in 77% of group I and in 85% of group II patients (p less than 0.05). Complication rates were similar for both groups. These data demonstrate a high rate of success and safety in elderly patients undergoing multilesion PTCA despite the presence of several risk factors (advanced age, female sex, unstable angina). The lower PTCA success rate in these patients compared with younger subjects is almost entirely attributable to reduced success for circumflex artery lesions. 
Multilocular cystic renal cell carcinoma. Multilocular cystic renal cell carcinoma (MCRCC) appears to be a distinct subtype of renal cell carcinoma with characteristic gross and microscopic features. The authors' ten-year experience (1977-1987) included six cases of MCRCC that were followed for a minimum of two years, with neither recurrence nor metastasis observed in any of the cases. During this period, there were 855 urologic procedures for the upper urinary tract, with 256 neoplasms or cysts identified. These included 32 simple cysts, 41 transitional cell carcinomas, 133 renal cell carcinomas, 17 papillary renal cell carcinomas, and 33 miscellaneous tumors. Histologically, the MCRCCs were well-demarcated multicystic lesions containing variably sized aggregates of neoplastic clear cells showing grade 1 nuclear features and little or no mitotic activity. The cyst walls were densely fibrotic, and the lining was often devoid of epithelium. Flow-cytometric analysis performed in five of the six cases with the use of paraffin-embedded tissue showed the tumors to be diploid in all instances, with low proliferative activity. The authors believe that this tumor is a low-grade variant of renal cell carcinoma and should be studied further to determine appropriate therapy. 
Home parenteral nutrition for patients with inoperable malignant bowel obstruction. The use of home parenteral nutrition (HPN) in patients with inoperable malignant bowel obstruction (IMBO) is controversial. The efficacy, safety, and indications for HPN in these patients is uncertain, and its benefit is difficult to demonstrate. The records of 17 patients (9, ovarian cancer; 4, colon cancer; 4, other) with IMBO receiving HPN managed by the Nutrition Support Team (NST) at Yale-New Haven Hospital from 1980 to 1989 were reviewed. Median survival was 53 days and was longest in the two patients with appendiceal carcinomatosis (208 and 159 days), intermediate in patients with colon cancer (median 90 days), and shortest in patients with ovarian cancer (median 39 days). Survival was unrelated to age or sex. All patients died of their underlying disease; 82% of deaths occurred at home. Only one treatment-related complication requiring readmission occurred. Fourteen patients and their families (82%) perceived their therapy as highly beneficial or beneficial. The NST agreed with this assessment in 11 patients but did not share this perception in three patients. These three patients had a short duration of HPN (less than 25 days) or minimal rehabilitation. It is concluded that HPN for patients with IMBO is associated with a low complication rate, may be most beneficial for those patients with gastrointestinal tract primary tumors, and is usually perceived by patients and care providers as beneficial. HPN has palliative benefit and facilitates compassionate home care for carefully selected patients with IMBO. 
Successful treatment of a persistent cyst, developing after ovarian transposition, with leuprolide acetate. Persistent ovarian cysts are considered to be the most troublesome complication of ovarian transposition. Transabdominal drainage or surgical removal is often required. This paper reports the successful use of leuprolide acetate, a GnRH agonist, in the treatment of a symptomatic and persistent ovarian cyst which developed after ovarian transposition. The benefits of this therapy over others are discussed. 
Extracardiac vascular and neural lesions in the toxic oil syndrome. The toxic oil syndrome is a multisystemic disease caused by the ingestion of adulterated rapeseed oil. The basic lesion is a peculiar vasculitis that affects mainly the intima, showing the features of an endovasculitis. Vessels of every type and size are involved, affecting practically every organ. The vascular lesions begins with endothelial damage that varies from cellular swelling to cellular necrosis. It then progresses by mixed cellular inflammatory infiltration of the intima and, in some cases, of the media and adventitia. In some cases the infiltrate is rich in eosinophils and a few show foamy histiocytes. Proliferation of myointimal cells and in advanced stages fibroblastic proliferation causes narrowing or obliteration of the vascular lumen. Thromboembolic complications perpetuate the vascular lesion and compound the ischemia and parenchymal atrophy of several organs. The peripheral nerve lesions begin with an inflammatory neuropathy with lymphocytic perineuritis and progress to perineural fibrosis with secondary axonal degeneration. Skeletal muscle lesions exhibit an interstitial inflammatory myopathy at first, followed by a neurogenic muscular atrophy. A direct effect of unidentified toxic substances, possibly free radicals, may cause the endothelial lesion. Other factors, such as immunopathologic mechanisms of delayed hypersensitivity, may contribute to the progression of the vascular lesions. 
Free amino acid analysis of guinea pig perilymph: a possible clinical assay for the PLF enigma? Controversy prevails regarding the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of perilymphatic fistula (PLF). The diagnosis of PLF has been based on the subjective evaluation of vestibular function tests and the intraoperative macroscopic visualization of "clear fluid" from the oval/round windows at the time of exploratory tympanotomy. However, the subjective visual characterization of PLF varies among observing surgeons. Furthermore, perilymph can be "contaminated" with serum, blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and local anesthesia. This article presents a scientific biochemical microassay for the free amino acid profile of perilymph. Microaliquots of uncontaminated perilymph were sampled from the bilateral round windows (scala tympani) of 20 guinea pigs and analyzed for 19 free amino acid concentrations (FAAC) by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). These samples were compared with the FAAC of guinea pig serum samples. Perfect predictor value ranges were nonoverlapping for 12 of 19 free amino acids in perilymph vs. plasma. Amino acid microassay of middle ear fluid for verification of "true" perilymph vs. nonperilymph fluids by the identification of nonoverlapping FAA markers may allow scientific verification of the existence of PLF in "suspected" patients. 
Ornipressin in the treatment of functional renal failure in decompensated liver cirrhosis. Effects on renal hemodynamics and atrial natriuretic factor. In 11 patients with decompensated cirrhosis and deteriorating renal function, the effect of the vasoconstrictor substance 8-ornithin vasopressin (ornipressin; POR 8; Sandoz, Basel, Switzerland) on renal function, hemodynamic parameters, and humoral mediators was studied. Ornipressin was infused at a dose of 6 IU/h over a period of 4 hours. During ornipressin infusion an improvement of renal function was achieved as indicated by significant increases in inulin clearance (+65%), paraaminohippuric acid clearance (+49%), urine volume (+45%), sodium excretion (+259%), and fractional elimination of sodium (+130%). The hyperdynamic circulation was reversed to a nearly normal circulatory state. The increase in systemic vascular resistance (+60%) coincided with a decrease of a previously elevated renal vascular resistance (-27%) and increase in renal blood flow (+44%). The renal fraction of the cardiac output increased from 2.3% to 4.7% (P less than 0.05). A decline of the elevated plasma levels of noradrenaline (2.08-1.13 ng/mL; P less than 0.01) and renin activity (27.6-14.2 ng.mL-1.h-1; P less than 0.01) was achieved. The plasma concentration of the atrial natriuretic factor increased in most of the patients, but slightly decreased in 3 patients. The decrease of renal vascular resistance and the increase of renal blood flow and of the renal fraction of cardiac output play a key role in the beneficial effect of ornipressin on renal failure. These changes develop by an increase in mean arterial pressure, the reduction of the sympathetic activity, and probably of an extenuation of the splanchnic vasodilation. A significant contribution of atrial natriuretic factor is less likely. The present findings implicate that treatment with ornipressin represents an alternative approach to the management of functional renal failure in advanced liver cirrhosis. 
A t(4;22) in a meningioma points to the localization of a putative tumor-suppressor gene. Cytogenetic analysis of meningioma cells from one particular patient (MN32) displayed the stem-line karyo-type 45, XY, -1, 4p+, 22q-, 22q+, which thus had rearrangements of both chromosomes 22. The 22q+ marker appeared as a dicentric: 22 pter----q11::1p11----qter. The reciprocal product of this translocation has presumably been lost because it lacked a centromere. The 22q- chromosome also appeared to have lost sequences distal to band q11. We assumed that this marker could have been the result of a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 4 and 22. To investigate the 4p+ and 22q- chromosomes in more detail, human-hamster somatic cell hybrids were constructed that segregated the 22q- and 4p+ chromosomes. Southern blot analysis with DNA from these hybrids showed that sequences from 22q were indeed translocated to 4p+ and that reciprocally sequences from 4p were translocated to 22q-, demonstrating a balanced t(4;22)(p16;q11). On the basis of these results we presume that in this tumor a tumor-suppressor gene is deleted in the case of the 22q+ marker and that the t(4;22) disrupts the second allele of this gene. The latter translocation was mapped between D22S1 and D22S15, a distance of 1 cM on the linkage map of this chromosome. The area in which we have located the translocation is within the region where the gene predisposing to neurofibromatosis 2 has been mapped. 
Allodynia-like effects in rat after ischaemic spinal cord injury photochemically induced by laser irradiation. We report behaviours suggesting the presence of allodynia elicited by non-noxious brushing and mechanical pressure following photochemically induced ischaemic spinal cord injury in the rat. Female rats were intravenously injected with Erythrosin B and the T10 vertebra was irradiated with a laser beam for 1, 5 or 10 min. These procedures initiated an intravascular photochemical reaction, resulting in ischaemic spinal cord injury. After irradiation a clear allodynia was observed in most rats. The animals vocalized intensely to light touch during gentle handling and were clearly agitated to light brushing of the flanks. The vocalization threshold in response to the mechanical pressure measured with von Frey hairs was markedly decreased during this period. In some animals the existence of spontaneous pain was suggested by spontaneous vocalization. The duration of the allodynia varied among animals from several hours to several days. The severity and duration of allodynia seemed not to be related to the duration of irradiation. In sham-operated rats a slight, transient allodynia was also noted around the wound within a few hours after surgery, which was effectively relieved by systemic morphine (2 mg/kg, i.p.). Morphine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) also partially relieved the allodynia in spinally injured rats 4 h after irradiation. However, morphine, even at a higher dose (5 mg/kg, i.p.), failed to alleviate the allodynia in spinally injured rats 24-48 h after the injury. Systemic injection of the GABAB agonist baclofen (0.01-0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), but not the GABAA agonist muscimol (1 mg/kg, i.p.), effectively relieved allodynia during this period. Pretreatment with guanethidine 24 h and just prior to the irradiation (20 mg/kg, s.c.) did not prevent the occurrence of allodynia in spinal cord injured rats. The present observation is the first to show that ischaemic spinal cord injury could result in cutaneous mechanical allodynia. This phenomenon is resistant to morphine and may not involve the sympathetic system. Histological examination of allodynic animals 3 days after spinal cord injury revealed considerable morphological damage in the dorsal spinal cord of a rat irradiated for 5 min. The related dorsal roots were also slightly affected in this animal, while the dorsal root ganglia were normal. However, in rats irradiated for 1 min, despite the existence of strong allodynia, no damage could be found at this time in the spinal cord, dorsal roots or dorsal root ganglia. It is suggested that functional deficits in the GABAB system in the spinal cord may be related to this allodynia-like phenomenon.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Early surgical management of extensive gynecologic ureteral injuries. Early ureteral reconstruction was performed during the immediate postoperative period upon 12 patients who sustained ureteral injuries secondary to gynecologic surgical procedures. The injuries occurred postoperatively for benign disease: endometriosis in one patient, fibrosis in eight patients and tubo-ovarian abscess in one patient. In three instances, portions of the ureter were noted in the pathologic specimen. After unsuccessful attempts at retrograde catheterization or stenting, all ureteral injuries were explored within three weeks of the primary gynecologic operation. Ureteral reconstruction was successful in all. The advantages of early operative intervention versus endoscopic or delayed operative intervention, or both, are discussed. 
Migraine equivalents and complicated migraine. Migraine equivalents and complicated migraine are entities in which definition is difficult, presentations are pleomorphic, diagnosis is treacherous, pathophysiology is obscure, and treatment is uncertain. A useful principle is to regard them as diagnoses of exclusion that require aggressive and comprehensive investigation. Rational treatment consists of migraine prophylaxis using agents with minimal vasospastic potential and, in some cases, acetylsalicylic acid for platelet disaggregation. The prognosis for both complicated migraine and migraine equivalents is good; when patients with these diagnoses come to harm, it is often because the diagnosis is incorrect. 
Acanthosis nigricans and a rectal carcinoid. Malignant acanthosis nigricans is often related to adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract, but it has also been found to coexist with tumors of the amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation system. It can precede, accompany, or follow the appearance of the underlying tumor. Evaluation of our patient's new-onset acanthosis nigricans led to the discovery of an asymptomatic rectal carcinoid tumor. To our knowledge, this is the first report of acanthosis nigricans associated with a carcinoid tumor of the rectum. It emphasizes the importance of considering underlying malignancy in the evaluation of patients with acanthosis nigricans. 
Positron tomographic assessment of 16 alpha-[18F] fluoro-17 beta-estradiol uptake in metastatic breast carcinoma. The positron-emitting estrogenic steroid 16 alpha-[18F]fluoro-17 beta-estradiol (FES) has been shown to exhibit selective uptake in primary breast carcinomas; the uptake of tracer by positron emission tomography (PET) is strongly correlated with the tumor estrogen-receptor concentration. We have now extended the use of this radiopharmaceutical for imaging of metastases of breast carcinoma by PET in 16 patients with clinical or radiographic evidence of metastatic disease. Increased uptake of FES was identified on PET images in 53 of 57 metastatic lesions (93%); only two apparent false-positive foci of FES uptake were seen. In seven of the patients, evaluable PET studies were obtained both before and after initiation of antiestrogen therapy. In all cases, there was a decrease in FES uptake in the tumor deposits after initiation of antiestrogen therapy, and the mean (+/- standard deviation) uptake decreased from 2.22 (+/- 1.23) to 0.80 (+/- 0.42) x 10(3)+ dose/ml. These results indicate that PET with FES has high sensitivity and specificity for detecting metastatic breast carcinoma and provide additional confirmatory evidence that the tumor uptake of this ligand is a receptor-mediated process. 
Catheter ablation of accessory atrioventricular pathways (Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome) by radiofrequency current BACKGROUND. Surgical or catheter ablation of accessory pathways by means of high-energy shocks serves as definitive therapy for patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome but has substantial associated morbidity and mortality. Radiofrequency current, an alternative energy source for ablation, produces smaller lesions without adverse effects remote from the site where current is delivered. We conducted this study to develop catheter techniques for delivering radiofrequency current to reduce morbidity and mortality associated with accessory-pathway ablation. METHODS. Radiofrequency current (mean power, 30.9 +/- 5.3 W) was applied through a catheter electrode positioned against the mitral or tricuspid annulus or a branch of the coronary sinus; when possible, delivery was guided by catheter recordings of accessory-pathway activation. Ablation was attempted in 166 patients with 177 accessory pathways (106 pathways in the left free wall, 13 in the anteroseptal region, 43 in the posteroseptal region, and 15 in the right free wall). RESULTS. Accessory-pathway conduction was eliminated in 164 of 166 patients (99 percent) by a median of three applications of radiofrequency current. During a mean follow-up (+/- SD) of 8.0 +/- 5.4 months, preexcitation or atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia returned in 15 patients (9 percent). All underwent a second, successful ablation. Electrophysiologic study 3.1 +/- 1.9 months after ablation in 75 patients verified the absence of accessory-pathway conduction in all. Complications of radiofrequency-current application occurred in three patients (1.8 percent): atrioventricular block (one patient), pericarditis (one), and cardiac tamponade (one) after radiofrequency current was applied in a small branch of the coronary sinus. CONCLUSIONS. Radiofrequency current is highly effective in ablating accessory pathways, with low morbidity and no mortality. 
Beneficial effects of yohimbine on posthypoxic recovery of cardiac function and myocardial metabolism in isolated perfused rabbit hearts. The present study was undertaken to elucidate the possible actions of yohimbine on cardiac function and metabolism in the hypoxic and subsequently reoxygenated myocardium. For this purpose, rabbit hearts were perfused for 20 min under hypoxic conditions, followed by 45 min reoxygenated perfusion, and their functional and metabolic alterations with and without yohimbine treatment were examined. Hypoxia induced cessation of cardiac contractile force, rise in resting tension and depletion of tissue high-energy phosphates, which were poorly recovered by subsequent reoxygenation. Hypoxia also induced release of creatine kinase and ATP metabolites from perfused hearts and increases in tissue calcium and sodium contents, which were further enhanced upon subsequent reoxygenation. When hypoxic hearts were treated with 3 to 30 microM yohimbine, several beneficial effects were observed in a concentration-dependent manner. This included enhancement of posthypoxic recovery of contractile function and suppression of the hypoxia- and reoxygenation-induced rise in resting tension. Hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced release of ATP metabolites was inhibited and restoration of myocardial high-energy phosphates enhanced. Inhibition of reoxygenation-induced rise in tissue calcium and sodium and creatine kinase release were also noted. The findings suggest that suppression of transmembrane flux of ions, substrates and enzymes during hypoxia/reoxygenation plays a role in the posthypoxic functional and metabolic recovery. Yohimbine (3-30 microM) significantly depressed the maximal stimulus frequency the left atria could follow. These results suggest a close relationship between depression in the maximal driving frequency of atria and enhancement of the posthypoxic contractile and metabolic recovery of perfused hearts. 
Determinants of successful transthoracic defibrillation and outcome in ventricular fibrillation. OBJECTIVE--To examine factors determining defibrillation success and outcome in patients with ventricular fibrillation. DESIGN--Observational prospective study of age, sex, transthoracic impedance, site of cardiac arrest, ventricular fibrillation duration and amplitude, primary or secondary ventricular fibrillation, aetiology, number of shocks to correct ventricular fibrillation, and drug treatment. SETTING--A teaching hospital and a mobile coronary care unit with a physician. PATIENTS--70 consecutive patients (50 male, 20 female) mean age 66.5 years. INTERVENTIONS--Before the first countershock was administered transthoracic impedance using a 30 kHz low amplitude AC current passed through 8 cm/12 cm self-adhesive defibrillator electrode pads applied in the anteroapical position was measured. The first two shocks were 200 J delivered energy (low energy) and further shocks of 360 J (high energy) were given if required. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Countershock success and outcome from ventricular fibrillation. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS--First shock success was significantly greater in inhospital arrests (37/53) than in out-of-hospital arrests (5/17) and in those receiving antiarrhythmic treatment (13/15, 86.7%) v (27/51, 52.9%). Transthoracic impedance was similar in those who were successfully defibrillated with one or two 200 J shocks (98.7 (26) omega) and those who required one or more 360 J shocks (91.4 (23) omega). Success rates with two 200 J shocks were similar in those patients with "high" transthoracic impedance (that is, greater than 115 omega) and those with transthoracic impedance (less than or equal to 115 omega) (8/12 (67%) v 44/58 (76%]. Fine ventricular fibrillation was significantly more common in the patients with a transthoracic impedance of greater than 95 omega (41% (13/32] than in those with a transthoracic impedance less than or equal to 95 omega (13% (5/38]. Death during arrest was significantly more common in patients who needed high energy shocks (14/18 (78%] than in those who needed low energy shocks (16/52 (31%]. Multiple regression analysis identified ventricular fibrillation with an amplitude of greater than or equal to 0.5 mV, age less than or equal to 70 years, and arrests that needed less than or equal to two shocks for defibrillation, in rank order as independent predictors of survival to discharge. 
Spontaneous thrombosis of iatrogenic femoral artery pseudoaneurysms: documentation with color Doppler and two-dimensional ultrasonography. Two-dimensional ultrasonography and color Doppler were used over an 18-month period for the diagnosis and management of femoral artery pseudoaneurysms in six patients with pulsatile groin masses found after catheterization. A diagnosis of pseudoaneurysm was made when color Doppler demonstrated pulsatile systolic flow into echolucent masses. One patient underwent surgical repair of a symptomatic pseudoaneurysm after the initial Doppler study. Serial color Doppler studies were performed in five subjects, all of whom showed resolution of flow after a mean of 18 days (range 7 to 42). Despite an absence of flow, one patient underwent surgical drainage of persistent hematoma. After a mean interval of 233 days (range 84 to 552) all patients have remained free of other complications or symptoms related to the pseudoaneurysm. This experience suggests that urgent surgical repair is not required in all cases of small iatrogenic pseudoaneurysms, and that asymptomatic patients can be safely followed with serial color Doppler examinations. 
Combined pterional-anterolateral approaches to cranial base tumors. Advanced tumors of the paranasal sinuses, parotid gland, orbit, parapharynx, and cranial cavity may invade the infratemporal fossa by direct extension or through natural anatomic pathways. The inability to control disease involving this region is reflected by the unacceptably high recurrence rates for both intracranial and extracranial neoplasms. Between 1983 and 1986, a pterional (or subtemporal) approach was combined with such conventional anterolateral procedures as a mandibulopharyngectomy, maxillectomy, orbitectomy, and parotidectomy in 13 patients with advanced skull base lesions. The tumor origin was extracranial in ten cases and intracranial in three patients. Seven of the neoplasms were malignant and six were histologically benign. Complete tumor removal was achieved in all patients. Repair of the ablative defect was achieved with a temporalis myogenous flap in ten patients, and primary closure or distant myocutaneous flaps in the remaining three patients. Postoperative complications included three lateral nasocutaneous fistulae secondary to temporalis myogenous flap necrosis and isolated cases of stroke, cerebral edema, pneumocephalus, and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea. Twelve patients are alive without evidence of disease at a mean interval of 25 months. The remaining patient died from lung metastases 11 months after surgery. 
Mucocele-like tumors of the breast. Cytologic findings in two cases. Mucocele-like tumors of the breast originally were reported by Rosen in 1986 as benign lesions that histologically resembled colloid carcinoma of the breast. The authors document two cases of mucocele-like tumors to illustrate the difficulty in separating these lesions from colloid carcinoma on the basis of fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Cytologically, mucocele-like tumors contained abundant mucin, few clusters, and sheets of regular epithelium that lacked nuclear atypia, and they contained no intact single cells. The authors recommend open surgical biopsy when fine-needle aspiration biopsy findings in such cases are equivocal. 
Limitations of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction complicated by congestive heart failure and cardiogenic shock. As many as one quarter of patients treated with thrombolytic therapy present with congestive heart failure or cardiogenic shock. Although thrombolytic therapy has been shown to limit infarct size, preserve left ventricular ejection fraction and decrease mortality in most subgroups of patients, no apparent benefit has been demonstrated in patients with clinical left ventricular dysfunction. The lack of correlation between ejection fraction and other measurements of left ventricular dysfunction such as exercise time, cardiac output, filling pressures, activation of the neurohumoral system and regional perfusion bed abnormalities may partly explain this paradox. Alternatively, lower perfusion rates, higher reocclusion rates, associated mechanical complications or completed infarction may explain these findings. Preliminary data indicate that emergency coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery improves survival in selected patients with cardiogenic shock. Because these findings suggest that restoration of infarct artery patency is especially important in patients with clinical left ventricular dysfunction, additional studies are needed in these patients to investigate the potential benefit that new thrombolytic strategies, inotropic or vasodilator agents or intraaortic balloon counterpulsation might offer by augmenting coronary blood flow and improving reperfusion rates. Currently, acute mechanical revascularization should be considered for patients who present with congestive heart failure associated with hypotension or tachycardia and for patients with cardiogenic shock. 
IIB osteosarcoma. Current management, local control, and survival statistics--the Australian experience. Current management of osteosarcoma at the authors' institution involves intraarterial induction chemotherapy using intermittent cycles of cisplatin and doxorubicin (Adriamycin), surgical resection with limb-sparing wherever possible, and adjuvant systemic chemotherapy (high-dose methotrexate with retrieval and doxorubicin). Twenty cases treated in this way between May 1983 and May 1989 are reviewed. There were 18 Stage IIB osteosarcomas and two Stage IIB malignant fibrous histiocytomas. Chemotherapeutic effect was evaluated in the resected tumors. There was little correlation between the clinical response to the induction chemotherapy and cell necrosis present in the resected tumor mass. Wide resection margins were achieved in 17 cases, a minimal margin in two, and a contaminated margin in one. Radiotherapy was used in these three cases where resection margin was in doubt. There were two local recurrences in these three cases. Four patients have died of their disease, and there was one treatment-related death. Overall probability of survival in this group of 20 patients has been expressed by the Kaplan-Meier method as 58%. 
Germ cell tumors masquerading as central nervous system sarcoidosis. The diagnosis of central nervous system sarcoidosis is uncertain without typical multisystem involvement. We describe two patients with isolated central nervous system mass lesions whose biopsy results were consistent with sarcoidosis. After a progressive clinical course, they were found to have diencephalic germinomas. Germ cell tumors, in particular, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of central nervous system sarcoidosis as they are potentially treatable, occur in intracranial locations favored by sarcoidosis mass lesions, and may be surrounded by granulomatous inflammation that can be mistaken for the noncaseating granulomas of sarcoidosis. 
Glucose tolerance and insulin action in rats with renovascular hypertension. To test whether hypertension can cause hyperinsulinemia or insulin resistance, we performed intravenous glucose tolerance tests at 1 month and euglycemic clamps at 3 months after induction of two-kidney, one clip renovascular hypertension in rats. At 1 month, systolic pressure was higher in 21 clipped than in 12 control animals (161 +/- 5 mm Hg, range 134-187 mm Hg versus 119 +/- 3 mm Hg, range 108-146 mm Hg; p less than 0.001). Glucose tolerance, assessed as the glucose fractional disappearance rate between 3 and 11 minutes after the glucose injection, was similar in the clipped and sham groups (0.059 +/- 0.002 versus 0.056 +/- 0.002 min-1, respectively; p greater than 0.4). The total area under the insulin curve during glucose tolerance tests was also similar in the clipped and sham groups (926 +/- 95 versus 869 +/- 126 microunits/ml x min; p greater than 0.4). There was no significant relation between systolic blood pressure and insulin area during glucose tolerance tests in the clipped group, but there was a positive rectilinear relation in the control group (r = 0.66; p = 0.01). Fourteen animals had euglycemic clamps 2 months after glucose tolerance tests. At that time, systolic pressure (direct femoral measurement) was higher in the seven clipped animals (189 +/- 13 mm Hg versus 122 +/- 5 mm Hg in controls; p less than 0.001). Insulin infusions of 1 and 4 milliunits/min/kg body wt effected similar plasma insulin levels in the two groups. 
Osteogenic sarcoma: MR signal abnormalities of the brain in asymptomatic patients treated with high-dose methotrexate. The advent of lesions with high signal intensity in periventricular white matter was incidentally observed on T2-weighted images in one patient who underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brain after administration of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) for osteogenic sarcoma. Twenty-one additional symptom-free patients who had been treated with the same regimen and 10 patients who had undergone cisplatin-based chemotherapy for testicular cancer also underwent examination. Fourteen of the patients with osteosarcoma showed high-signal-intensity lesions in white matter on T2-weighted images. The interval between the last course of chemotherapy and MR imaging was a factor in this finding, as 12 of 14 patients who underwent examination within 2 years after chemotherapy had a positive finding, as opposed to two of eight patients who underwent examination later. The patients with testicular cancer had normal MR images. The occurrence of MR imaging abnormalities in asymptomatic patients treated with HDMTX for osteogenic sarcoma may be subclinical evidence of treatment-related central nervous system toxicity. 
Beta-galactosidase tablets in the treatment of lactose intolerance in pediatrics. Lactose-intolerant children manifest diminished or nonexistent intestinal lactase activity, resulting in flatulence, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. To assess the hydrolytic capability of lactase-containing tablets taken immediately before oral lactose challenge, we studied 18 children previously identified as being lactose intolerant and having no underlying organic gastrointestinal disease. Subjects had a mean (+/- SEM) age of 11.4 +/- 3.4 years; 72% were male. At time of the study, lactase-containing tablets or placebo tablets were ingested (double-blind) immediately before drinking a solution of lactose. Breath samples were obtained for hydrogen analysis at 30-minute intervals during a 2-hour period, and clinical symptoms were monitored. In lactose-intolerant patients, hydrogen production was significantly greater following placebo (maximum hydrogen excretion, approximately 60 ppm) compared with lactase-containing tablets (maximum hydrogen excretion, 7 ppm). Increased hydrogen production was associated with clinical symptoms including abdominal pain (89% of subjects following placebo ingestion), bloating (83%), diarrhea (61%), and flatulence (44%). These results indicate, therefore, that coingestion of lactose and lactase-containing tablets significantly reduces both breath hydrogen excretion and clinical symptoms associated with lactose intolerance. 
Ovarian carcinoma metastatic to the breast and axillary node. Breast cancer is a common primary malignancy in women. On rare occasion the breast is also the site of metastatic disease. This report describes the evaluation of breast and axillary masses in a patient with known ovarian cancer, including the radiographic evaluation and special immunohistochemical stains with CA-125. Flow cytometric determinations and hormonal receptor analysis on both the primary and metastatic tumors demonstrate similar biologic characteristics. Both tumor sites demonstrated positive CA-125 staining, aneuploid DNA populations, moderately positive estrogen receptor content, and negative progesterone receptors. The mammogram demonstrated a well-circumscribed lesion with several areas of microcalcifications. Blood-borne metastasis from the ovary to the breast can show a varied clinical picture that can be differentiated from that of a primary breast carcinoma. 
Review of the secondary injury theory of acute spinal cord trauma with emphasis on vascular mechanisms. In patients with spinal cord injury, the primary or mechanical trauma seldom causes total transection, even though the functional loss may be complete. In addition, biochemical and pathological changes in the cord may worsen after injury. To explain these phenomena, the concept of the secondary injury has evolved for which numerous pathophysiological mechanisms have been postulated. This paper reviews the concept of secondary injury with special emphasis on vascular mechanisms. Evidence is presented to support the theory of secondary injury and the hypothesis that a key mechanism is posttraumatic ischemia with resultant infarction of the spinal cord. Evidence for the role of vascular mechanisms has been obtained from a variety of models of acute spinal cord injury in several species. Many different angiographic methods have been used for assessing microcirculation of the cord and for measuring spinal cord blood flow after trauma. With these techniques, the major systemic and local vascular effects of acute spinal cord injury have been identified and implicated in the etiology of secondary injury. The systemic effects of acute spinal cord injury include hypotension and reduced cardiac output. The local effects include loss of autoregulation in the injured segment of the spinal cord and a marked reduction of the microcirculation in both gray and white matter, especially in hemorrhagic regions and in adjacent zones. The microcirculatory loss extends for a considerable distance proximal and distal to the site of injury. Many studies have shown a dose-dependent reduction of spinal cord blood flow varying with the severity of injury, and a reduction of spinal cord blood flow which worsens with time after injury. The functional deficits due to acute spinal cord injury have been measured electrophysiologically with techniques such as motor and somatosensory evoked potentials and have been found proportional to the degree of posttraumatic ischemia. The histological effects include early hemorrhagic necrosis leading to major infarction at the injury site. These posttraumatic vascular effects can be treated. Systemic normotension can be restored with volume expansion or vasopressors, and spinal cord blood flow can be improved with dopamine, steroids, nimodipine, or volume expansion. The combination of nimodipine and volume expansion improves posttraumatic spinal cord blood flow and spinal cord function measured by evoked potentials. These results provide strong evidence that posttraumatic ischemia is an important secondary mechanism of injury, and that it can be counteracted. 
Treatable blindness in temporal arteritis. Temporal arteritis is a common cause of blindness. Prompt steroid treatment limits unilateral visual loss while protecting the contralateral eye. Established blindness is irreversible. We report a case of temporal arteritis in which an eye with no light perception secondary to an arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy regained 6/6 vision. 
Endoscopic diverticulotomy for the treatment of Zenker's diverticulum. First described by Mosher in 1916, endoscopic treatment of Zenker's diverticulum has since been reported infrequently in the surgical literature and continues to engender controversy. Between 1978 and 1989, we treated 11 unselected patients surgically for pharyngoesophageal diverticula. Endoscopic diverticulotomy was used in 11 patients and an external approach was used in the others. The endoscopically treated patients had no serious complications, resumed oral intake early, and were discharged from the hospital earlier. Our review of the surgical literature confirmed our experience with the efficacy and safety of the procedure. We therefore recommend endoscopic diverticulotomy as being equal to external approaches with regard to effectiveness; and it affords the patient a shortened hospital stay and more rapid return to to the premorbid state. 
Results of treatment with high intensity, brief duration chemotherapy in poor prognosis non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. A novel chemotherapeutic approach was designed for the treatment of intermediate and high-grade histology non-Hodgkin's lymphoma using augmented (but subtransplantation) doses of chemotherapy administered at frequent intervals in the inpatient setting. For the initial evaluation of this regimen, poor prognosis patients were treated with a projected long-term survival rate of less than 25% in response to standard therapy. Between March 1982 and May 1988, 56 previously untreated patients were entered into this study; all patients had either high-grade histology (20 patients) or predominantly large cell lymphoma (36 patients). Median age was 41.5 years (range, 18 to 69 years). Poor prognosis features included: Stage IV, 71%; poor performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group scale, 2 to 4), 55%; multiple extranodal sites of disease, 52%; elevated lactic dehydrogenase (greater than 300 IU/l), 43%; and bulky (greater than 10 cm) tumor masses, 30%. Thirty-three of 56 patients (59%) were in Shipp's Category 3. During the 6-year study, the chemotherapy regimen was modified in an attempt to improve efficacy and reduce toxicity. However, most patients received a 2-month course of therapy as follows: cyclophosphamide 1500 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) on days 1, 2, and 29; etoposide 400 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 2, and 3 and 100 mg/m2 on days 29, 30, 31; doxorubicin 45 mg/m2 IV on days 29, 30; vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 IV on days 8, 22, 36, and 50; bleomycin 10 units/m2 IV on days 8, 22, 36, and 50; methotrexate 200 mg/m2 IV on days 15 and 43 followed 24 hours later by leucovorin 15 mg/m2 IV every 6 hours for six doses; and prednisone 60 mg/m2 orally on days 1 to 7 and 29 to 35. The complete response (CR) rate was 77% (95% confidence interval, 64% to 86%). There were ten relapses, only one of which occurred after 18 months of follow-up. Overall event-free survival (EFS) was 52% (95% confidence interval, 36% to 68%), with a median follow-up of 36 months. Eleven of 13 patients with small noncleaved lymphoma had CR; actuarial EFS in this subgroup was 61%. Myelosuppression occurred in all patients, with severe leukopenia (less than 1000/microliters) lasting a median of 12 days (range, 3 to 29 days); toxic deaths occurred in five patients (9%; 95% confidence interval, 4% to 19%). This intensive approach improved the response and survival of very poor risk non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients. 
Management options in fulminant hepatic failure. The diagnosis of FHF carries with it a high mortality rate. Though the early results of OLT for FHF are encouraging, some have called for caution as these results are in a select population and may be similar to the optimistic early reports of now-discredited therapies. However, OLT differs fundamentally from all other interventions and, as such, it is ethically unjustified to withhold potentially life-saving therapy from patients with a predicted mortality in excess of 60%. Therefore, patients with FHF should be transferred at an early stage to an experienced liver unit where the option of liver transplantation can be considered. 
Total acromionectomy. A twenty-year review. Thirty-five patients (thirty-eight shoulders) were treated consecutively with a total acromionectomy between 1969 and 1989. At a minimum of two years (average, five years and eight months) after the operation, thirty-one patients (thirty-four shoulders) were available for review. The results, which were rated on the basis of pain, function, range of motion, strength, and the satisfaction of the patient, were excellent for twenty-five shoulders, good for four, fair for three, and poor for one. Four of the five least satisfactory results were in patients who had had a long-standing massive tear of the rotator cuff. This study was done to separate the criticism of the operative procedure of total acromionectomy from an avoidable complication of that procedure, retraction of the deltoid, and to describe the specific advantages and satisfactory results that occur when that complication is avoided. It is my opinion that failure to repair the deltoid adequately results in retraction of that muscle, and that this avoidable complication is responsible for the unfavorable reputation of total acromionectomy. 
Ovarian cancer screening in asymptomatic postmenopausal women by transvaginal sonography. From November 1987 to January 1991, 1300 postmenopausal women underwent screening with transvaginal sonography (TVS). Women eligible for screening were all asymptomatic with no known ovarian tumors. Ovarian volume was calculated using the prolate ellipsoid formula, and a value in excess of 8.0 cm3 was considered abnormal. Ovarian abnormalities were detected in 33 women (2.5%), and 27 underwent exploratory laparotomy. Ovarian tumors were noted in all 27 patients, including 2 primary carcinomas and 14 serous cystadenomas. The two women with ovarian carcinomas had normal results of pelvic examinations and normal serum CA-125 levels. Both women had Stage I disease, and are alive and well after conventional therapy. TVS was time efficient, easy to perform, and well-accepted by patients. Currently, there are more than 3000 patient years of follow-up in the screened population, and there have been no deaths due to ovarian cancer. A multi-institutional trial to determine the efficacy of TVS as a screening method for ovarian cancer is indicated. 
Recent advances in MR imaging/spectroscopy of cerebral ischemia. Recent advances in high-resolution MR imaging and multinuclear spectroscopy have stimulated studies of the functional relationships between tissue hypoperfusion, cellular energy depletion, and brain edema associated with cerebral ischemia. The very slow (microns/sec) random translational motion of water protons in various brain tissues and intracranial fluid compartments can now be assessed with MR diffusion imaging. More slowly diffusing protons in ischemic tissues can be differentiated from normal parenchyma, CSF, and flowing blood, enabling the detection and localization of ischemic regions within minutes of the onset of stroke. Perfusion imaging "snapshots," obtained in as little as 25 msec with echoplanar MR methods, permit the evaluation of tissue washin/washout kinetics of contrast agents in the microvasculature, and thus the quantification of brain perfusion on a regional basis. Also, delineation of major intra- and extracranial arterial and venous structures with MR angiography, acquired with two- or three-dimensional Fourier transformation techniques, has enabled accurate noninvasive assessments of vascular occlusive disease. Finally, improvements in MR spectroscopic techniques have facilitated investigations of metabolic regulation and bioenergetics in experimental animal models of cerebral ischemia, as well as in stroke patients. Combined MR imaging and spectroscopy will likely play an important role in differentiating reversibly from irreversibly ischemic brain tissues and in the investigation of various neuroprotective pharmaceuticals. 
The mermaid malformation: cloacal exstrophy and occult spinal dysraphism. Five infants with cloacal exstrophy underwent neurological evaluation and radiographic examination of the caudal spine shortly after birth. Each was found to have occult spinal dysraphism. Four had terminal myelocystoceles, and one had a lipomyelomeningocele. Pathological anatomy was confirmed during surgery for the release of the tethered spinal cords. The striking association between cloacal exstrophy and occult spinal dysraphism suggests a common developmental defect in the caudal pole of the embryo. A hypothesis is offered to explain this association. Terminal myelocystocele and lipomyelomeningocele appear to be part of a continuum of lesions associated with skin-covered spina bifida. 
Enhancement of the protective qualities of gastric mucus by sucralfate: role of phosphoinositides. The effects of intragastric administration of sucralfate on the physicochemical properties of gastric mucus, and the mechanism of its protective action against alcohol-induced mucosal injury were investigated using in vivo and in vitro models. The experiments in vivo were conducted with groups of rats receiving a dose of 100 mg sucralfate twice daily for 5 consecutive days. The animals were sacrificed 16 hours after the last dose, their stomachs dissected, and the mucosa subjected to physicochemical measurements. In the in vitro studies, gastric mucosa was cultured in the presence of sucralfate, ethanol, or both. The in vivo results revealed that sucralfate elicited an 8% increase in mucus gel dimension, while its sulfo- and sialomucin content increased by 63% and 81%, respectively. The changes in mucus gel mucin content with sucralfate were accompanied by a 9.5% increase in mucus hydrogen ion (H+) retardation capacity, 1.9-fold increase in viscosity, and a 60% increase in the gel hydrophobicity. The mucus elaborated in the presence of sucralfate exhibited 14% lower protein content and 62% higher content of carbohydrate than that of control, and contained more neutral lipids. Furthermore, the gastric mucus of the sucralfate group showed a marked increase in mucus glycoprotein polymeric form. The data obtained with gastric mucosal culture demonstrated that sucralfate elicited a significant increase in mucin synthesis, which was reflected in the enhanced metabolism of mucosal phosphoinositides. In contrast, ethanol, which exhibited detrimental effects on mucin synthesis, also caused alterations in the phosphoinositide signal pathway. The changes in mucin and phosphoinositide distribution patterns evoked by ethanol were prevented by sucralfate. Our results suggest that the mucosal strengthening action of sucralfate occurs through the stimulation of the metabolism of phosphoinositide-derived messenger molecules. 
The treatment of multiple intracranial tuberculous abscesses: a case report. A Chinese female aged 2 years 8 months with tuberculous meningitis developed hydrocephalus requiring insertion of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. After adequate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy for 14 weeks, multiple intracranial tuberculous abscesses developed. The lesions increased in size and number accompanied by clinical deterioration. Repeated drainage operations were performed in view of the increased intracranial pressure. The child made a remarkable recovery after an initial stormy course. 
An analysis of thirty cases of orbital lymphangioma. Pathophysiologic considerations and management recommendations. Thirty cases of orbital lymphangioma were reviewed. Clinical, imaging, and microscopic findings were integrated to develop a pathophysiologic construct and management guidelines. The basic lesion might be considered an abortive vascular system which arborizes among normal structures. Intrinsic hemorrhage expands portions of the small-caliber network into large blood cysts, prompting clinical recognition. While major hemorrhage led to early surgery in 12 cases, long pretreatment intervals could be analyzed in 17 others. Twelve patients had second hemorrhages of varied magnitude, from 2 weeks to 15 years after initial recognition; five patients did not in an average of 6.8 years. Some blood cysts contracted spontaneously. Among 23 operated cases, 12 patients had major new bleeds from 4 days to 12 years after initial surgery; 11 patients did not in an average of 4.2 years. Poor final visual acuity was associated with multiple surgeries. The authors advocate conservatism in surgical case selection and in operative dissection. 
Clinical and pharmacokinetic basis for the antimicrobial treatment of acute otitis media. Given the astonishing frequency in childhood of acute otitis media and its significant morbidity, such as hearing loss and possibly speech delay, improving treatment of response is essential. Since bacteria are an important cause of otitis media, antimicrobial treatment remains the cornerstone of such treatment. Over the last four decades, many clinical studies have shown that antibiotics can relieve symptoms and prevalent complications, although a universal cure is still elusive. This article summarizes the most pertinent clinical and experimental research on treating and preventing acute otitis media, with a focus on intervention trials and the pharmacokinetic behavior of antimicrobial drugs. 
Calcium-regulating hormones in hypertension: vascular actions. The vascular and potentially hypertensive actions of the calcium-regulating hormones 1,25-dihydroxychole-calciferol [1,25(OH)2D3], parathyroid hormone (PTH), and calcitonin and related factors such as parathyroid hypertensive factor (PHF) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are discussed. 1,25(OH)2D3 has inotropic and calciotropic actions on isolated vascular tissue whereas PTH is a vasodilator. PHF, which has been reported in plasma of humans with essential hypertension and spontaneously hypertensive rats, has both pressor and calciotropic actions. Calcitonin is without vascular effects and CGRP is a potent vasodilator. It is concluded that several of the hormones responsible for maintaining Ca2+ homeostasis modulate vascular Ca2+ metabolism and force generating capacity. These substances may be long-term modulators of vascular function and play a role in the determination of peripheral vascular resistance. 
Are vascular abnormalities a primary cause or secondary consequence of hypertension? This paper reviews the evidence that the resistance vasculature is altered in hypertension and the role that the vasculature may play in the pathogenesis of the disease. Although functional changes (i.e., increased vascular smooth muscle sensitivity) have been found to be associated with some models of hypertension (e.g., spontaneously hypertensive rat), in human essential hypertension it appears that the abnormalities that predominate in the resistance vasculature are structural in nature. These changes result in an increased media/lumen ratio of the more proximal resistance vessels (i.d. 100-300 microns), and the changes are such that they could account for many of the altered hemodynamic characteristics seen in patients with essential hypertension (e.g., increased minimum vascular resistance, increased pressor response). However, evidence that the abnormal structure of the peripheral vasculature is a prime determinant of blood pressure is still lacking, and much of the available evidence suggests that the altered structure is a secondary adaptation. Nevertheless, the abnormal vascular structure may play an important pathological role concerning the morbid consequences of the hypertensive disease, suggesting that normalization of vascular structure is a desirable aim for antihypertensive treatment. At present it seems that treatment must be continued for long periods, maybe many years, before vascular structure is normalized. 
The role of radiosurgery in the management of chordoma and chondrosarcoma of the cranial base. Despite conventional multimodality treatment (surgery and fractionated radiation therapy), recurrence and clinical progression of cranial base chordomas and chondrosarcomas are common. The malignant behavior of these tumors is a result of their critical location, locally aggressive nature, and high recurrence rate. To explore the role of radiosurgery in the treatment of these skull base neoplasms, we assessed its use in four patients with chordoma and two with chondrosarcoma. In five of the patients, radiosurgery was used as adjuvant therapy for residual or recurrent tumors after surgical debulking, and in one patient with a chordoma, it was the primary treatment. No patient received fractionated external beam radiotherapy. All tumors were less than 30 mm in diameter and were treated with 20 Gy to the tumor margin. Skull base computed tomography and magnetic resonance images were essential to define the anatomic relationships between tumor and adjacent basal structures. During follow-up (mean, 22 mo; range, 8-36 mo), we found no progression of the treated tumor volume in any patient. Neurological deficits before treatment improved in three patients; the other three patients remained in stable neurological condition. Serial follow-up imaging studies demonstrated that two patients showed reduction in tumor size and four patients had no tumor growth. In one patient, a metastatic parietal lobe chondrosarcoma developed and was treated by microsurgery. Another patient showed tumor progression outside of the radiosurgical treatment volume. Our results attest to the value of stereotactic radiosurgery as an adjuvant or primary treatment for selected patients with chordoma or chondrosarcoma and demonstrate its potential advantages over standard fractionated irradiation. Analysis of the long-term clinical and imaging effects after radiosurgery is warranted. 
Mesenteric vascular anatomy at CT: normal and abnormal appearances. The appearance of the mesenteric vessels on computed tomographic scans was evaluated in 187 patients to determine the variations in the anatomic relationships between the mesenteric vessels in normal patients, in patients with malrotation, and in patients with abdominal masses. In 166 patients (88.8%), a portion of the cranial segment of the superior mesenteric vein (SMV) was anterior and to the right of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA), although other normal configurations also occurred. A portion of the cranial segment of the SMV was directly anterior to the SMA in 15 patients (8.0%) and directly to the right of the SMA in 16 patients (8.6%). Of eight patients with complete inversion of the SMA and SMV, one had normal midgut rotation, two had malrotation, and six had neoplasms that displaced the vessels (one of these six also had malrotation). Of eight patients with inversion of only a part of the mesenteric vessels, none had malrotation. Although mesenteric inversion should stimulate a careful evaluation for malrotation, it is not pathognomonic of this condition. 
Suppression of gastric acid secretion by intravenous administration of famotidine in children. This study was designed to establish appropriate dosing requirements for intravenous use of famotidine, a new H2-receptor antagonist, in pediatric patients. Eighteen children, 2 to 69 months of age (mean +/- SD: 31 +/- 23 months), were treated with intravenously administered famotidine to prevent bleeding of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Continuous intragastric pH monitoring was carried out to ascertain the effectiveness of various intravenous doses. An initial dose of 0.4 mg/kg was given and repeated only after the intragastric pH had dropped to less than 4.0 for 2 hours. Increased doses were given (0.8, 1.2, and 1.6 mg/kg) if the previous dose did not raise the intragastric pH to greater than 4.0 for greater than or equal to 6 hours. Sixteen patients achieved an intragastric pH greater than or equal to 4.0 for greater than or equal to 6 hours, 13 with a dose of 0.4 mg/kg, and three with a dose of 0.8 mg/kg. The mean duration of continuous pH greater than 4.0 per dose was 9.0 +/- 7.5 hours. Ten patients received two or more intravenous doses of famotidine; the mean duration of pH greater than 4.0 after the second dose was less than that after the first (14.9 +/- 8.0 hours vs 6.9 +/- 3.2 hours, p less than 0.01). We conclude that intravenous famotidine therapy raises gastric pH to greater than 4.0 for approximately 9 hours in most children. Prolonged intravenous use of famotidine rapidly leads to a decreased duration of efficacy, necessitating intragastric pH monitoring to assess the effectiveness of treatment. 
Regional cerebral blood flow imaging: a quantitative comparison of technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT with C15O2 PET. The aim of this study was to compare technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) imaging using positron emission tomography (PET). As investigation of dementia is likely to be one of the main uses of routine rCBF imaging, 18 demented patients were imaged with both techniques. The PET data were compared quantitatively with three versions of the SPECT data. These were, first, data normalized to the SPECT cerebellar uptake, second, data linearly corrected using the PET cerebellar value and, finally, data Lassen corrected for washout from the high flow areas. Both the linearly-corrected (r = 0.81) and the Lassen-corrected (r = 0.79) HMPAO SPECT data showed good correlation with the PET rCBF data. The relationship between the normalized HMPAO SPECT data and the PET data was nonlinear. It is not yet possible to obtain rCBF values in absolute units from HMPAO SPECT without knowledge of the true rCBF in one reference region for each patient. 
Seasonality in sudden infant death syndrome--United States, 1980-1987. Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden death of an infant less than 1 year of age that remains unexplained after a complete postmortem investigation, including autopsy, examination of the death scene, and review of the case history. SIDS, which usually occurs during sleep, is the leading cause of death in the postneonatal period (i.e., from 28 days through 364 days) and the eighth leading cause of years of potential life lost in the United States (1). The risk for SIDS is greatest for infants aged 1-4 months and during the cold season of the year (2); however, an independent contribution of the season of birth to the etiology of SIDS has not been consistently demonstrated (3). This report summarizes an assessment of the association between the risk for SIDS and an infant's month of birth, month of death, and age at death. 
Endocardial fibroelastosis in infants with hydrops fetalis. Endocardial fibroelastosis, defined as an endocardium in excess of 30 microns thick, was found in 10 out of 34 cases of hydrops fetalis in a review of 1589 perinatal necropsies carried out between 1976 and 1989. The infants comprised 16 cases of rhesus haemolytic disease, of whom three had endocardial fibroelastosis, and 18 cases of non-rhesus hydrops, of whom seven had endocardial fibroelastosis. Intrauterine congestive heart failure was thought to have been the probable cause of hydrops in eight of the 10 infants with endocardial fibroelastosis. None of an age matched control group without endocardial fibroelastosis had evidence of congestive cardiac failure. These observations support the hypothesis that endocardial fibroelastosis is an endocardial response to chronic prenatal myocardial stress. 
Colon perforation during colonoscopy: surgical versus conservative management. A survey of endoscopy units in the West Midlands, UK, was undertaken to ascertain the management of colonic perforation during colonoscopy. Fifteen perforations were reported from a total of 17,500 colonoscopies performed in 14 units (a rate of 0.09 per cent). In seven patients the diagnosis was suspected or diagnosed immediately and in the remaining eight 2-72 h later. Four patients with associated pathology (carcinoma, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and a polyp) had resection and primary anastomosis. Seven patients had a simple oversew, four of these having had a delayed diagnosis. In four cases the site of perforation was not identified, but only one patient had conservative treatment. Three patients had drainage and a defunctioning colostomy. There was no significant morbidity following treatment. It is recommended that patients who have had a good bowel preparation should be treated conservatively unless there is a large perforation or an underlying carcinoma. 
Health maintenance strategies for women of different ages. An overview. Preventive health strategies for screening for specific illnesses, counseling, and immunization are discussed. Emphasis is given to cardiovascular screening and risk reduction, screening for malignancies, and immunization practices. A framework for designing periodic health examinations for patients is detailed. 
Tumor antigen presentation by murine epidermal cells. The ability of epidermal Langerhans cells to present Ag for CD4-dependent immunity is well documented, and it has been hypothesized that Langerhans cells participate in the generation of immunity against incipient epidermal neoplasms by presentation of tumor-associated Ag in situ. This study examined the ability of murine epidermal cells (EC) to present tumor-associated Ag for the induction of in vivo antitumor immunity. Murine epidermal cells were deleted of Thy-1-bearing cells, cultured in 50 U/ml granulocyte-macrophage-CSF for 14 to 18 h, and pulsed with tumor fragments (TF) derived from S1509a-fibrosarcoma cells. These TF-pulsed EC were injected s.c. into syngeneic recipients at weekly intervals for a total of three immunizations and challenged with viable S1509a tumor cells 1 wk after the last immunization. Control animals received TF-pulsed allogeneic EC or EC treated identically but not pulsed with TF. EC that were pulsed with tumor cell fragments were able to induce protective immunity to tumor growth in vivo and to immunize for a significant delayed-type hypersensitivity response to injected tumor cells. The induction of antitumor immunity with TF-pulsed EC was genetically restricted, and culture of EC in granulocyte-macrophage-CSF was required for development of significant immunity. Furthermore, deletion of I-A+ cells by antibody and complement-mediated lysis eliminated the generation of immunity. Thus, I-A+ epidermal cells are capable of presenting S1509a tumor Ag for the generation of protective antitumor immunity in vivo. 
Evaluation of antiarrhythmic drug effects with simultaneous analysis of single ventricular premature contractions, couplets and salvos. To improve the clinical value of ambulatory Holter electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring as a tool of antiarrhythmic therapy control, a new statistical model was developed. In a patient group at increased risk of sudden cardiac death, the spontaneous variability of ventricular arrhythmias was assessed, with simultaneous consideration of single ventricular premature complexes, couplets and salvos. The study included 100 patients who suffered from coronary heart disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and for whom greater than 30 ventricular premature complexes/h and couplets had been demonstrated on the last Holter ECG before the study. Between 3 and 12 Holter recordings were made for each patient in a drug-free state; the mean follow-up period was 260 days (maximum 1,403). The mean hourly values of the ectopic events (EE) were assessed separately for ventricular premature complexes, couplets and salvos. The spontaneous variability (SV) was calculated for single ventricular premature complexes, couplets and salvos as SV = log (EEday 2 + 0.01/EEday 1 + 0.01) and linked in one, two and three dimensions. Compared with the consideration of only one type of arrhythmia (one-dimensional model), the simultaneous use of two or three types of arrhythmia (two- or three-dimensional model) resulted in considerably lower reduction and aggravation rates as sufficient proof of drug effects. With control intervals up to 1 week, the one-dimensional model yielded reduction rates for ventricular premature complexes, couplets and salvos of -63%, -90% and -95%, respectively. In contrast, with the three-dimensional model, the rates were -28%, -72% and -88%. The corresponding aggravation values were +370, +1,114% and +2,189% versus +38%, +256% and +747%. 
Impact of pretransplant conditioning and donor T cells on chimerism, graft-versus-host disease, graft-versus-leukemia reactivity, and tolerance after bone marrow transplantation. Graft rejection, mixed chimerism, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), leukemia relapse, and tolerance are interrelated manifestations of immunologic reactivity between donor and host cells that significantly affect survival after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). In this report, a mouse model of BMT, in which the donor and host were compatible at the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), was used (1) to examine the interrelationship of pretransplant conditioning and T-cell content of donor BM with regard to lymphoid chimerism and GVHD and (2) to determine how these factors affected graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) reactivity and donor-host-tolerance. AKR (H-2k) host mice were administered optimal or suboptimal total body irradiation (TBI) as pretransplant conditioning followed by administration of BM cells from B10.BR (H-2k) donor mice with or without added spleen cells as a source of T lymphocytes. Transplanted mice were injected with a supralethal dose of AKR leukemia cells 20 and 45 days post-BMT to assess GVL reactivity in vivo. The pretransplant conditioning of the host and T-cell content of the donor marrow affected the extent of donor T-cell chimerism and the severity of GVH disease. GVL reactivity was dependent on transplantation of mature donor T cells and occurred only in complete chimeras. Transplantation of T-cell-deficient BM resulted in the persistence of host T cells, ie, incomplete donor T-cell chimerism, even when lethal TBI was used. Mixed chimerism was associated with a lack of GVL reactivity, despite the fact that similar numbers of donor T cells were present in the spleens of mixed and complete chimeras. In this model, moderate numbers of donor T cells facilitated complete donor T-cell engraftment, caused only mild GVHD, and provided a significant GVL effect without preventing the subsequent development of tolerance after conditioning with suboptimal TBI. In contrast, severe, often lethal, GVHD developed when the dose of TBI was increased, whereas tolerance and no GVH/GVL reactivity developed when the T-cell content of the marrow was decreased. 
Endocarditis prophylaxis in a primary care clinic. BACKGROUND. Primary care physicians often make decisions about the use of endocarditis prophylaxis (EP). Compliance with American Heart Association (AHA) recommendations has been found to be poor in hospitalized patients and in a dental school clinic. The purpose of this study was to examine the use of endocarditis prophylaxis in a primary care clinic. METHODS. The problem list of all adult patients seen in a primary care clinic in 1989 was reviewed for diagnoses that might require EP. Eighty-four charts were identified and reviewed. RESULTS. Sixty-five percent of the study patients had documentation in their charts about the need for EP. Mitral valve prolapse was the most frequent diagnosis. The physicians recommended EP for most patients with mitral valve prolapse regardless of whether there was documented mitral insufficiency. Endocarditis prophylaxis was most commonly prescribed for dental procedures. Six patients received prophylaxis for procedures for which the AHA does not recommend prophylaxis. Only 19% of the antibiotic regimens prescribed were entirely consistent with the AHA 1984 guidelines. The most common deviation from the AHA guidelines was continuing oral antibiotics too long. CONCLUSIONS. Compliance with the AHA 1984 recommendations, although better than reported in other settings, was less than optimal in this primary care clinic. Family physicians should consider whether EP is indicated in any patient with cardiac disease. If prophylaxis is indicated, then such a recommendation should be clearly documented in the chart. Family physicians need to be familiar with the 1990 AHA recommendations. 
Lightning and its effects on the auditory system. Patients struck by lightning can present with a wide variety of unusual otologic problems including burns to the external auditory canal, tympanic membrane rupture, middle ear injury, and sensorineural hearing loss. Four patients who incurred various otologic problems, including one patient with previously unreported bilateral oval window fistulas following lightning injury, are presented. Audiologic, otologic, and surgical findings are reviewed as well as patient follow-up and outcome. 
High levels of p19/nm23 protein in neuroblastoma are associated with advanced stage disease and with N-myc gene amplification. The gene encoding a novel protein designated nm23-H1, which was recently identified as identical to the A subunit of nucleotide diphosphate kinase from human erythrocytes, has been proposed to play a role in tumor metastasis suppression. We report that untreated neuroblastoma tumors contain a cellular polypeptide (Mr = 19,000) designated p19, identified in two-dimensional electrophoretic gels, which occurs at significantly higher levels (P = 0.0001) in primary tumors containing amplified N-myc gene. The partial amino acid sequence obtained for p19 is identical to the sequence of the human nm23-H1 protein. An antibody to the A subunit of erythrocyte nucleotide diphosphate kinase reacted exclusively with p19. In this study, significantly higher levels of p19/nm23 occurred in primary neuroblastoma tumors from patients with advanced stages (III and IV) relative to tumors from patients with limited stages (I and II) of the disease. Even among patients with a single copy of the N-myc gene, tumors from patients with stages III and IV had statistically significantly higher levels of p19/nm23 than tumors from patients with stages I and II. Our findings indicate that, in contrast to a proposed role for nm23-H1 as a tumor metastasis suppressor, increased p19/nm23 protein in neuroblastoma is correlated with features of the disease that are associated with aggressive tumors. Therefore, nm23-H1 may have distinct if not opposite roles in different tumors. 
Atrial natriuretic factor modulates the plasma levels of a Na+/K+ATPase inhibitor in volume expanded borderline hypertensives. To evaluate the existence of a relationship between atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and plasma Na+/K+ATPase inhibitory activity in humans, we examined the hemodynamic and humoral response to volume expansion in 41 borderline hypertensive patients (BHT) with either normal (n = 33) or low plasma renin activity (n = 8). The study was carried out by measuring blood pressure, forearm circulation, plasma renin activity (PRA), ANF, and plasma levels of an endogenous Na+/K+ATPase inhibitor before and after 2 h of acute intravenous NaCl infusion (0.22 mL/min/kg bodyweight). The early (45 min) changes of ANF and those of Na+/K+ATPase inhibitory activity attained at the end of saline infusion were inversely related in BHT with normal PRA and directly related in the low-PRA population (r = 0.64). The time-course of ANF response to sodium loading was significantly delayed in BHT characterized by normal venous distensibility. They also showed a greater increase in plasma Na+/K+ATPase inhibitory activity occurring with an hypertensive, vasoconstrictive, and sodium retaining response as well. We conclude that in normal PRA borderline hypertensives, ANF may modulate the release of a plasma Na+/K+ATPase inhibitor in a setting where extracellular volume is acutely expanded. Our findings also suggest that dissimilarities in peripheral venous distensibility are able to influence the time-course of ANF response. The blunted ANF increase observed in response to NaCl loading in a subset of BHT could represent an early marker of the attitude of such patients to develop high blood pressure leading to the release of a Na(+)-pump inhibitor and influencing individual salt-sensitivity. 
Cecal rupture after continent ileocecal urinary diversion during total pelvic exenteration. Continent ureteral diversion at the time of pelvic exenteration avoids an external appliance and allows patients to retain "bladder" reservoir function. The technical difficulty of this procedure requires meticulous attention to operative and perioperative care, particularly after pelvic irradiation. A patient with recurrent stage IIIB carcinoma of the cervix underwent total pelvic exenteration with reconstructive procedures including low rectal anastomosis, neovagina formation, and ileocecal (Indiana) continent diversion. Early catheterization of the reservoir began 2 weeks postoperatively. One week later cecal rupture occurred, not related to suture line (technical) failure. Because of the high wall tension and reduced compliance in the irradiated cecum, we do not recommend catheterization of the urinary reservoir before 4-6 weeks. In order for continent diversion to become the standard diversion in exenteration patients, the major complication rate must remain comparable to that of noncontinent diversion. 
The effect of chronic orthopedic infection on quality of life. The patient with chronic orthopedic infection presents a unique challenge to the orthopedic surgeon. The orthopedic surgeon must not only possess an expertise in constantly evolving diagnostic and treatment techniques but also be able to identify numerous related problems and direct the patient in receiving the most appropriate treatment. This demands a commitment of time by the treating surgeon to the individual patient to properly assess the need for support, the extent of psychologic distress, the intensity of pain, and the requirement for medication management. The effective utilization of a multidisciplinary team of health care providers (e.g., specialists in infectious disease, physical medicine and rehabilitation, psychiatry, nursing, pharmacology) can provide an optimal treatment program for this multifaceted problem and maximize the potential for a favorable outcome. 
Probability of appendicitis before and after observation. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine patients with abdominal pain for changes in probability of appendicitis during observation. STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study. SETTING: University-affiliated community hospital. METHODS: 252 patients with abdominal pain who were examined underwent short-term (10.4 hours) observation (95% confidence interval [CI], 8.7, 12.1) before the decision to operate during a one-year period. Alvarado's scoring system and a probability-of-diagnosis nomogram were used to assign scores and estimate probability of appendicitis. MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: In the study group, mean score of patients with appendicitis increased after observation from 6.8 (95% CI, 6.2, 7.4) to 7.8 (95% CI, 7.3, 8.3), corresponding to a change in probability of appendicitis from 50% to 65%. Mean score of patients without appendicitis decreased from 3.8 (95% CI, 3.5, 4.1) to 1.6 (95% CI, 1.58, 1.62), corresponding to a change in probability from 35% to 22%. The difference between mean scores for patients with and without appendicitis increased from 2.6 (95% CI, 2.0, 3.2) to 6.2 (95% CI, 6.15, 6.25) during observation. The study group initially had intermediate probability of appendicitis (score, 4.35; 95% CI, 4.04, 4.66) compared with high probability for patients who went directly to surgery after their initial evaluation (63 patients; score, 7.59; 95% CI, 7.05, 8.73) and low probability for patients with abdominal pain who were sent home after their initial evaluation without observation or surgery (2,097 patients; score, 1.87; 95% CI, 1.48, 2.26). CONCLUSION: In this group of patients with intermediate initial probability of appendicitis, observation improved the ability to distinguish patients with from those without appendicitis. 
Cardiac epinephrine synthesis. Regulation by a glucocorticoid. BACKGROUND. The heart can synthesize epinephrine. Homogenates of rat heart, which contain the enzymes phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) and nonspecific N-methyltransferase (NMT), methylate norepinephrine to form epinephrine. The cardiac atrium contains primarily PNMT and the cardiac ventricle contains both PNMT and NMT. METHODS AND RESULTS. Rats were given the glucocorticoid dexamethasone at doses ranging from 0.2 to 20 mg/kg. Twenty-four hours later, cardiac atria, ventricle, skeletal muscle, and adrenal had increases in PNMT activity to as much as 230% of baseline. NMT activity was unchanged. Longer-term treatment with 1 mg/kg dexamethasone daily for 12 days increased cardiac PNMT activity about fivefold and also increased atrial epinephrine levels. Dexamethasone did not alter ventricular epinephrine levels but increased levels of both PNMT and catechol-O-methyltransferase, the major catabolic enzyme for epinephrine. After dexamethasone treatment, greater volumes of anti-PNMT antiserum were needed to decrease PNMT enzymatic activity, indicating that dexamethasone treatment resulted in greater amounts of PNMT and did not just activate existing PNMT molecules. Denervation of the masseter muscle of rats by unilateral superior cervical ganglionectomy markedly diminished tissue norepinephrine and epinephrine levels but had no effect on masseter PNMT or NMT levels. We have previously shown that chemical sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine increases cardiac PNMT levels. These findings suggest that PNMT is an extraneuronal enzyme in both cardiac and skeletal muscle. CONCLUSIONS. Glucocorticoids have several cardiovascular effects, including increased cardiac output and blood pressure. Enhanced cardiac epinephrine synthesis may mediate some of these glucocorticoid effects. 
Experimental hypertension. Several interventions are used to induce hypertension in the experimental animal. The three most used interventions are renal ischemia, mineralocorticoid excess, and genetic manipulation. The sequence of events leading from these initiating manipulations to the elevated arterial pressure is being explored to define the mechanism responsible for hypertension. The following mechanisms are currently extensively evaluated: Pressor and depressor factors of renal origin, neurogenic regulation, circulating humoral factors, vessel wall hypertrophy, and membrane transport abnormality. The experimental models of hypertension hold great promise in providing an understanding of the mechanisms and developing effective treatment in clinical hypertension. 
Group C streptococcal bacteremia: analysis of 88 cases. Eighty-eight cases of group C streptococcal bacteremia were reviewed retrospectively. Most patients had underlying diseases (72.7%), predominantly cardiovascular disease (20.5%) or malignancy (20.5%). The infection originated most often from the upper respiratory tract (20.5%), the gastrointestinal tract (18.2%), or the skin (17.1%). Prior exposure to animals or animal products was reported in 23.9% of cases. The most common clinical manifestations of group C streptococcal bacteremia were endocarditis (27.3%), primary bacteremia (22.7%), and meningitis (10.2%). Of streptococcal isolates, 61.4% were not speciated, 19.3% were Streptococcus equisimilis, 17.1% were Streptococcus zooepidemicus, and two (2.3%) were Streptococcus equi. The isolates were sensitive to most antibiotics, and most patients were treated with beta-lactam agents. Mortality was high (25.0%), especially among older patients and patients with endocarditis, meningitis, and disseminated infection. Group C streptococcal bacteremia does not differ from bloodstream infection caused by other beta-hemolytic streptococci with regard to clinical presentation, treatment, or outcome. 
Chordoma of the petrous bone. We have presented two cases of chordoma arising from an unusual location within the skull. Chordomas in the skull usually arise from within the body of the clivus, reputedly from notochordal remnants. The first case, which was diagnosed both with CT and MRI, had its origin from the petrous bone, with extension into the left cerebellopontine angle. Chordoma was not considered high on the list of differential diagnoses. A right pontine hemorrhage, which was evacuated surgically, was diagnosed in the second case both from its clinical appearance and from that on CT scan. Only when bone windowing technique was used with CT was a lytic lesion of the right petrous bone evident. Chordoma was only diagnosed on autopsy. In reviewing these two cases and the literature, it is evident that chordoma must be considered in the differential diagnosis of erosive lesions of the petrous bone. 
Anaesthesia for Proteus syndrome. A 14-year-old boy with Proteus syndrome presented for orthopaedic surgery to his legs. No report in the literature exists on anaesthesia for this condition. Our patients posed airway problems that were managed by tracheal intubation under sedation using a fibreoptic bronchoscope. Anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone and maintained with nitrous oxide and isoflurane in oxygen. His lungs were ventilated mechanically throughout surgery, which was uneventful. 
Sudden death and paroxysmal autonomic dysfunction in stiff-man syndrome. Two women with typical stiff-man syndrome (SMS) developed increasingly frequent attacks of muscle spasms with severe paroxysmal autonomic dysfunctions such as transient hyperpyrexia, diaphoresis, tachypnea, tachycardia, pupillary dilation, and arterial hypertension. Autoantibodies to GABA-ergic neurons were identified in the serum of both patients and in the cerebrospinal fluid of one. Both died suddenly and unexpectedly. General autopsy did not reveal the cause of death. Neuropathological studies revealed perivascular gliosis in the spinal cord and brain stem of one patient and lymphocytic perivascular infiltration in the spinal cord, brain stem, and basal ganglia of the other. The occurrence of a chronic inflammatory reaction in one of the two patients supports the idea that an autoimmune disease against GABA-ergic neurons may be involved in SMS. A review of the literature indicates that functional impairment in SMS is severe and prognosis is unpredictable because of the potential for sudden and unexpected death. Both muscular abnormalities and autonomic dysfunctions may result from autoimmunity directed against GABA-ergic neurons. 
Arrhythmias in heart failure--therapeutic challenges. Electrophysiologic disorders are common at all stages of heart failure due to myocardial mechanical factors, neuroendocrine disturbances, electrolyte abnormalities, or ischemia, and also because of cardiovascular drugs. The prevalence of various forms of heart block, bradycardias, and arrhythmias in heart failure is largely unknown, as is their relationship to the etiology of the syndrome. Complex and multiform ventricular premature beats and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia are common, and their frequency is broadly related to the severity of heart failure. Supraventricular arrhythmias are also common features of the syndrome. The heart failure syndrome has an ominous prognosis. Approximately half the patients die suddenly, but the causal relationship between preexisting arrhythmias and sudden death is not known. Equally vital is knowledge of the influence of drug therapy on the arrhythmias of heart failure, but at present this is scarce and needs further study. 
Mastoid obliteration with the temporoparietal fascia flap. Obliteration of persistently discharging open mastoid cavities is one surgical option to achieve a dry ear. All the currently described techniques involve the use of random pattern local tissue flaps or free grafts. Ten patients have undergone obliteration procedures using the vascularized temporoparietal fascia flap. This resulted in rapid epithelialization by six weeks in seven out of 10 cases. The remaining three patients have persistent non healed areas over the medial attic wall, but are not troubled by otorrhoea. The indications, technique and complications of mastoid obliteration by this axial pattern flap are described. 
Quantitative comparison of aromatase induction by dexamethasone in fibroblasts from a patient with familial cortisol resistance and a patient with cortisol hyperreactive syndrome. The ability of dexamethasone to induce aromatase activity was tested in fibroblasts from a patient with familial cortisol resistance, a patient with cortisol hyperreactive syndrome, and five normal subjects. Dexamethasone increased enzyme activity in all cases in a concentration-dependent manner (over a range of 1-1000 nmol/L). In fibroblasts from a patient with familial cortisol resistance, the response curve of dexamethasone-induced aromatase activity was shifted to the right compared to that of normal cells. However, the maximal induction of the enzyme at 1 mumol/L dexamethasone was unchanged in cortisol-resistant fibroblasts. On the other hand, in fibroblasts from the patient with the cortisol hyperreactive syndrome, the half-maximal effect of dexamethasone was similar to that in normal cells, but maximum induction of aromatase activity was 2 times greater than that in normal cells. The glucocorticoid antagonist RU 486 inhibited dexamethasone-induced aromatase activity in these patients' cells and in normal cells in a concentration-dependent manner, indicating that the altered effects of dexamethasone on aromatase induction observed in each cell type were mediated through glucocorticoid receptors. 
Prevention of stress-induced erosive gastritis by parenteral administration of arachidonic acid. Stress-induced mucosal ulcerations are associated with a decreased synthesis of mucosal prostaglandin (PG) E2. This phenomenon is poorly understood. To investigate whether it is due to a decreased availability of the necessary substrates to the mucosa, four groups of 10 Holtzman rats were studied: group 1 received normal saline by intraperitoneal (ip) injection; group 2 also received ip normal saline, then were submitted to stress, by the cold restraint method; group 3 received a solution of arachidonic acid (AA) ip; and group 4 also received ip AA, then were submitted to stress. After sacrifice, the number of gastric ulcerations were counted and specimens of nonulcerated mucosa were assayed for PGE2 by high-performance liquid chromatography; the mean numbers of ulcers were 0, 5.8, 0.8, and 3 and the mean levels of PGE2 were 55, 41, 125, and 62 pg/mg of wet tissue for groups 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. It is concluded that parenteral administration of AA reduces but does not completely eliminate stress-induced gastric ulcerations and that the stressed animals synthesized half as much PGE2 as the nonstressed ones after ip administration of equal amounts of AA, suggesting that stress reduces the availability of AA to the gastric mucosa, possibly by vascular spasm. 
Mitral valve replacement combined with coronary artery operation: determinants of early and late results. Mitral valve replacement combined with coronary artery bypass grafting has been reported as being associated with a higher mortality than either mitral valve replacement or coronary artery bypass grafting alone. Cause of mitral valve disease and severity of mitral regurgitation have been reported as related to mortality. To study the correlation of the cause of mitral valve disease and severity of mitral regurgitation to hospital mortality and long-term survival, we analyzed the results of 135 patients undergoing mitral valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting between June 1974 and August 1989. The hospital mortality was 11.8% (16/135). Fifteen preoperative and operative variables were tested for correlation with hospital or late mortality using univariate tests and multivariate regression. Advanced age (greater than 60 years), New York Heart Association functional class, and wall motion score were independently associated with hospital mortality (p less than 0.05). The cause of mitral valve disease and severity of mitral regurgitation were not related to hospital mortality or long-term survival (p greater than 0.05). The follow-up rate was 96.6% for the hospital survivors (115/119). Mean follow-up was 52.6 +/- 4.1 months. There were 35 late deaths. Survival was 91.9%, 89.9%, 78%, and 49.9% at 1, 2, 5, and 10 postoperative years, respectively. Preoperative New York Heart Association functional class and use of catecholamines during the postoperative intensive care period were independently related to late survival (p less than 0.05). 
Temporary external DDD pacing after cardiac operations. Temporary atrial and ventricular pacing in the DVI, VVI, and AOO modes using atrioventricular sequential DVI devices is routinely used in cardiac operations. This study evaluated a new temporary external DDD pacemaker (Medtronic 5345 External Pulse Generator) capable of ten pacing modes. Thirty-nine devices have been applied to 38 adult patients (27 male, 11 female) after a variety of open heart procedures. Group 1 had atrial pacing wires placed 1.5 to 2.0 cm apart superiorly on the right atrium, group 2 had atrial wires placed 1.0 to 1.5 cm apart on the right atrial free wall, and group 3 had atrial wires placed on the right atrial free wall 0.8 cm apart, using a Silastic ring for fixation. Ventricular wires were placed on the free wall (group 1) or the diaphragmatic surface (groups 2 and 3) of the right ventricle. Postoperative atrial and ventricular sensing and pacing thresholds were obtained on return to the intensive care unit; analysis of variance demonstrated a significantly greater atrial sensing threshold in group 3. Four patients in group 1 permanently lost atrial sensing, 1 patient in group 2 intermittently lost atrial sensing at 24 hours with return at 36 hours postoperatively, and 1 patient in group 1 lost ventricular sensing capability. All other patients had adequate atrial and ventricular sensing capability documented until elective pacemaker removal (mean, 166 hours; range, 17 to 667.5 hours). Nineteen patients required some form of temporary pacing postoperatively; 11 patients demonstrated hemodynamic benefit from a pacing mode that is not available on the currently used DVI devices, and 7 of these required true DDD pacing capability. Six patients benefited from atrial pacing with adequate atrial sensing and simultaneous ventricular backup. Burst pacing with the device was used successfully to treat postoperative atrial flutter in 2 patients. We conclude that temporary external DDD pacing is feasible and effective in postoperative cardiac surgical patients. Atrial sensing is possible in most patients but electrode positioning is important for adequate thresholds. In some patients, hemodynamic as well as electrophysiologic improvement can be demonstrated with universal DDD pacing capability as compared with standard DVI pacing. 
Perilymph fistulas: the House Ear Clinic experience. The diagnosis, evaluation, and surgical treatment of perilymph fistulas has recently been the focus of a great deal of attention in otology. Authors have focused on perilymph fistulas as the cause of hearing loss and vertigo in many diverse situations. Additionally, surgical repair has been suggested when there is little objective support for intervention. To address some of the problems inherent in the diagnosis and treatment of perilymph fistulas, records of patients operated on at the House Ear Clinic during the past 12 years were reviewed retrospectively. Eighty-six patients were surgically explored for fistulas during this period. Thirty-five (40.7%) fistulas were found, and 51 ears were patched whether fistulas were found or not. Of the 80 patients who were seen for follow-up, 35 (43.8%) were subjectively better, and 45 (56.2%) were the same. Although the number of fistulas found and the number of patients improved were similar, the composition of the two groups was different. On the basis of audiometric results, improvement in hearing occurred in only 18.7% of the patients. None of the demographic factors or diagnostic tests were predictive of either the presence of a fistula or the therapeutic outcome. Further work is required to facilitate the preoperative diagnosis of fistulas and to design appropriate surgical intervention. 
Intractable epilepsy and structural lesions of the brain: mapping, resection strategies, and seizure outcome. Forty-seven patients with structural brain lesions on neuroimaging studies and partial epilepsy intractable to medical therapy were studied. Prolonged noninvasive interictal and ictal EEG recording was performed, followed by more focused mapping using chronically implanted subdural electrode plates. Surgical procedures included lesion biopsy, maximal lesion excision, and/or resection of zones of epileptogenesis depending on accessibility and involvement of speech or other functional areas. The epileptogenic zone involved exclusively the region adjacent to the structural lesion in 11 patients. It extended beyond the lesion in 18 patients. Eighteen other patients had remote noncontiguous zones of epileptogenesis. Postoperative control of epilepsy was accomplished in 17 of 18 patients (94%) with complete lesion excision regardless of extent of seizure focus excision. Postoperative control of epilepsy was accomplished in 5 of 6 patients (83%) with incomplete lesion excision but complete seizure focus excision and in 12 of 23 patients (52%) with incomplete lesion excision and incomplete focus excision. The extent of lesion resection was strongly associated with surgical outcome either in itself (p less than 0.003), or in combination with focus excision. Focus resection was marginally associated with surgical outcome as a dichotomous variable (p = 0.048) and showed a trend toward significance (p = 0.07) only as a three-level outcome variable. We conclude that structural lesions are associated with zones of epileptogenesis in neighboring and remote areas of the brain. Maximum resection of the lesion offers the best chance at controlling intractable epilepsy; however, seizure control is achieved in many patients by carefully planned subtotal resection of lesions or foci. 
Etidronate for hypercalcemia of malignancy and osteoporosis. The biphosphonates are becoming well established as effective agents for the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. Etidronate disodium is the only biphosphonate approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accepted indications for etidronate therapy are symptomatic Paget's disease, heterotopic ossification and hypercalcemia of malignancy. An unapproved, but apparently successful use is treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Both oral and intravenous preparations are available. Newer biphosphonates, which may be more efficacious and less toxic than etidronate, are being studied. 
Chronic urticaria and cancer: an epidemiological study of 1155 patients. To evaluate the possible association of malignant disease with chronic urticaria 1155 consecutive cases with chronic urticaria were reviewed. The Swedish Cancer Registry, Stockholm, was searched for records reporting malignancies in the study population (1958-84), and the expected number of malignancies was calculated on the basis of age- and sex-standardized incidence data. A malignancy was diagnosed in 36 patients with urticaria and the expected number of malignancies was 41. In 23 patients the malignancy appeared during the same year as the onset of urticaria or later. The expected number was 25.6. We conclude that chronic urticaria is not statistically associated with malignancy in general. 
Lupus anticoagulants, anticardiolipin antibodies, and fetal loss. A case-control study. BACKGROUND. Lupus anticoagulants and anticardiolipin antibodies are antiphospholipid antibodies that have been associated with fetal loss, but they have not been shown unequivocally to be a risk factor for this event. METHODS. To estimate the risk of fetal loss in association with these antibodies, we conducted a hospital-based case-control study of 331 women with spontaneous abortion or fetal death (case patients) and 993 controls. The subjects were included in the study only if they reported that they had had no previous spontaneous fetal loss. Each control was a pregnant woman who, in the same period of pregnancy as a case patient, had not had a fetal loss. Lupus anticoagulants were identified in blood samples through a series of coagulation tests, and IgG anticardiolipins by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Each subject was interviewed in person to obtain information on potential confounding variables, such as sociodemographic characteristics and medical conditions. RESULTS. Lupus anticoagulants were found in blood from 17 case patients (5.1 percent) and 38 controls (3.8 percent). The crude odds ratio for the association between lupus anticoagulants and fetal loss was 1.36 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.75 to 2.43); the odds ratio adjusted for confounders was 1.42 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.72 to 2.80). An IgG anticardiolipin level of 5 units or more was found in 4 case patients (1.2 percent) and 15 controls (1.5 percent). The crude and adjusted odds ratios for fetal loss were 0.80 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.26 to 2.41) and 1.28 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.38 to 4.21), respectively. CONCLUSIONS. There is not apparent justification for considering lupus anticoagulants or IgG anticardiolipins to be risk factors for fetal loss among women who present with spontaneous abortion or fetal death and have had no previous spontaneous fetal loss. 
Central nervous system germinomas. A review. The germinoma represents a less malignant form of germ cell tumor. Depending on the individual's age, this neoplasm constitutes approximately 0.1% to 3.4% of all intracranial tumors. The embryologic origin remains a mystery; however, current theories implicate an aberration in primordial germ cell migration. Clinical presentation depends on tumor location and may involve endocrine, hypothalamic, visual, and cognitive dysfunction. In evaluating midline intracerebral masses, it is imperative that one be aware of the various radiologic appearances, endocrinologic changes, and chemical markers that help to distinguish germinomas from other neoplasms that appear in the pineal, suprasellar, and periventricular regions. Only through the careful evaluation of all available studies can the physician institute appropriate therapies such as biopsy, radiation, and chemotherapy. This article focuses on the epidemiology, embryology, clinical presentation, means of diagnosis, treatment, and outcome of this rare neoplasm. 
Wide vertical hemipharyngolaryngectomy with immediate glottic and pharyngeal reconstruction using a radial forearm free flap: preliminary results. We propose a new technique of wide vertical hemipharyngolaryngectomy which combines resection of laterally localized extended pharyngolaryngeal tumors with immediate microsurgical reconstruction using a radial forearm free flap, including the tendon of the palmaris longus. It eliminates the limitations of resections, which are usually performed to avoid closure difficulties of the resulting defect. In addition, the new technique avoids the use of tumor-neighboring structures for closure, fulfilling the oncological principles of surgery performed in this region. Our preliminary results show good restored deglutition and phonation. Postoperative irradiation does not seem to affect these results. 
Insulin regulation of the glucagon gene is mediated by an insulin-responsive DNA element. Diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin deficiency and high plasma glucagon levels, which can be normalized by insulin replacement. It has previously been reported that glucagon gene expression is negatively regulated by insulin at the transcriptional level. By transfection studies, I have now localized a DNA control element that mediates insulin effects on glucagon gene transcription. This element also confers insulin responsiveness to a heterologous promoter. DNA-binding proteins that specifically interact with this insulin-responsive element are found in both glucagon- and non-glucagon-producing cells; and the pattern of binding, as assessed by the gel retardation assay, is not modified by prior insulin treatment. 
Pain reduction interventions during neonatal circumcision. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of some noninvasive pain reduction interventions on pain in 121 neonates undergoing unanesthetized circumcision. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of six groups: classical music, intrauterine sounds, pacifier, music and pacifier, intrauterine sounds and pacifier, or control (no nurses present and no pain reduction interventions used). Physiological variables that were monitored were heart rate, rhythm, dysrhythmias, blood pressure, transcutaneous oxygen (tcpO2), rate pressure product, and behavioral state, measured during 14 circumcision steps. Over the 14 steps, 42% of the heart rates, 78% of the systolic blood pressures (SBP), 30% of the diastolic blood pressures (DBP), and 81% of the tcpO2 pressures were abnormal. Few significant differences were found among any of the steps. SBP and DBP differed significantly between groups during two of the noninvasive steps; and tcpO2 differed significantly during six steps. 
Selective depletion of macrophages prevents pituitary-adrenal activation in response to subpyrogenic, but not to pyrogenic, doses of bacterial endotoxin in rats. The mechanisms by which bacterial endotoxin [lipopolysaccharide (LPS)] stimulates the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPAA) have not been elucidated. The present study was designed to investigate the involvement of macrophages in plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses to LPS administration in rats using selective in vivo macrophage depletion. Intraperitoneal administration of subpyrogenic doses of LPS to normal rats resulted in elevated plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations, measured 2 h later. The response showed a remarkable steep dose relationship, with minimal effective doses between 0.5-1.5 micrograms (ACTH) and 0.5 micrograms or less (corticosterone)/kg BW. Plasma PRL, LH, and catecholamine (norepinephrine, epinephrine) levels were not significantly changed under the conditions used. Only at 6 h after LPS administration was a small elevation of norepinephrine noted. To deplete macrophages, rats were injected with liposomes encapsulated with dichloromethylene diphosphonate (Cl2MDP). Histochemical (acid phosphatase) and immunocytochemical techniques (monoclonal antibodies to rat macrophages coded ED1 and ED3) were applied to examine the efficiency of macrophage elimination by the Cl2MDP liposomes in cytospins of peritoneal exudates and in sections of the liver and spleen. Since cells of the macrophage lineage are considered to be the main source of IL-1 in the circulation, we also measured circulating levels of immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) concentrations in control and Cl2MDP liposome-treated rats by the use of a newly developed RIA. Reduced numbers of macrophages were seen in peritoneal lavages of Cl2MDP liposome-treated animals, whereas the morphological appearance and numbers of mast cells, granulocytes, and T-cells were unaffected. Similarly, macrophages were effectively eliminated in the spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, and liver, as inferred from the reduction of macrophage staining in these organs. Plasma IL-1 concentrations could only be detected in response to a pyrogenic (2.5 mg/kg, iv) and not to a subpyrogenic (0.025 mg/kg, ip) dose of LPS. The increase in plasma IL-1 concentrations in response to the pyrogenic dose of LPS, reaching levels of 20-40 ng/ml in control rats, was blunted in animals treated with the Cl2MDP liposomes. Macrophage depletion by Cl2MDP liposomes did not affect either resting plasma corticosterone levels or the corticosterone response to ether exposure. At subpyrogenic doses of LPS, plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses were completely prevented by macrophage depletion. In contrast, at pyrogenic doses of LPS, plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses were not significantly affected by depleting macrophages. These data demonstrate that activation of the HPAA by a subpyrogenic dose of LPS is macrophage dependent. However, macrophage-independent mechanisms mediate activation of the HPAA in response to a pyrogenic dose of LPS. 
Hypercholesterolemia in adolescents: effectiveness of screening strategies based on selected risk factors. This study evaluates the efficacy of the American Academy of Pediatrics' current recommendations for identifying hypercholesterolemia in teenagers. These guidelines advocate a screening strategy that is targeted only at high-risk individuals. Detailed information regarding risk factors for hypercholesterolemia was obtained from 1001 adolescents or their parents at three urban teen clinics during routine health assessments. In addition, serum cholesterol was measured in all adolescents. The population under study was 38.2% Hispanic, 33.5% white, 15.4% black, and 11.3% Asian, with a mean age of 15.6 years (range: 12 through 21 years); 52% were female. Based on the cholesterol values, the study population was divided into two groups: (1) normal cholesterol level, less than 200 mg/dL (n = 937, mean cholesterol value = 157 mg/dL) and (2) elevated cholesterol level, greater than or equal to 200 mg/dL (n = 64, mean cholesterol value = 228 mg/dL, range = 200 through 366 mg/dL). Application of the 1985 American Academy of Pediatrics criteria for selected screening identified 30 of 64 individuals with hypercholesterolemia (sensitivity = 47%). Criteria similar to 1988 recommendations identified 40 of 64 teenagers (sensitivity = 62%). A combination of 1985 and 1988 criteria yielded a sensitivity of 44 of 64, or 69%. The specificity of these criteria was 74%, 60%, and 53%, respectively. Despite the utilization of the 1985, 1988, or a combination of both American Academy of Pediatrics criteria for hypercholesterolemia screening, this study demonstrates that many adolescents with abnormal cholesterol levels would not be identified. 
Colonic-type adenocarcinoma of male urethra. A case of a rare primary urethral carcinoma is presented. The histochemical characteristics of this tumor are identical to those of colon tumors. The patient was treated with segmental urethrectomy. 
U.S. experience with omeprazole in duodenal ulcer. Multicenter double-blind comparative study with ranitidine. The Omeprazole DU Comparative Study Group. To assess the comparative efficacy of omeprazole 20 mg, a proton pump inhibitor, versus ranitidine 150 mg twice a day, an H2-receptor antagonist, in healing duodenal ulcers we performed a randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial in 309 patients with endoscopically diagnosed ulcers. Patients were treated for up to four weeks and were seen at week 2 and at week 4, if unhealed at week 2, for determination of ulcer status by endoscopy, review of daily self-assessment symptom diaries, and clinical laboratory including fasting serum gastrin. Gastrin levels were repeated two weeks after cessation of study medication. Evaluation of baseline demographic and laboratory parameters demonstrated no significant differences between the two groups at entry. At week 2, 42% of the omeprazole and 34% of the ranitidine-treated patients were healed (P = NS). At week 4, there was a 19% advantage in ulcer healing for the omeprazole-treated patients in comparison to those treated with ranitidine (82% vs 63%, respectively, P less than 0.05). Healing of ulcers greater than or equal to 1.0 cm occurred in 83% of those treated with omeprazole versus 37% treated with ranitidine (P less than 0.01). There were no significant differences in rate of pain relief or incidence of clinical laboratory abnormalities. Mean fasting serum gastrin value during treatment increased over the baseline in both groups, (P less than 0.05). The percent change was significantly greater with omeprazole but few patients had elevations above the upper limit of normal for the assay. Both drugs were well tolerated. Omeprazole 20 mg demonstrated superiority in healing duodenal ulcers at four weeks in comparison to ranitidine 150 mg twice daily and was more effective in healing ulcers greater than or equal to 1.0 cm. 
Colloid oncotic pressure and body water dynamics in septic and injured patients. Colloid oncotic pressure (COP) and fluid shifts were studied in 43 septic (SS) patients and 33 injured (HS) patients (ISS = 48.2). During maximal postresuscitation fluid retention, plasma volume (PV/RISA), red cell volume (RBC/51Cr), inulin space (ECF), and COP were measured. Interstitial space (IFS), PV/IFS ratio, and correlation coefficients (r) were calculated. A subgroup of 22 SS patients and 22 HS patients of equal study weight were also compared. Septic patients had greater IFS expansion (17.6 L vs. 11.5 L) than HS patients who, by inference, had more intracellular expansion. Expansion of IFS in SS patients correlated (r = -0.76, p less than 0.02) with reduced plasma COP; this was not seen in HS patients (r = -0.09, p less than 0.35). In contrast, plasma COP correlated (r = 0.72, p less than 0.001) with PV/RISA in HS patients but not in SS patients (r = 0.09, p greater than 0.35). We conclude: (1) SS patients with greater IFS expansion that correlates with reduced plasma COP likely have increased capillary permeability; and (2) HS patients with less IFS expansion that does not correlate with reduced plasma COP likely have maintained capillary permeability with altered IFS matrix configuration causing reduced protein exclusion. 
A randomized double-blind study of gallium nitrate compared with etidronate for acute control of cancer-related hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia is a major source of morbidity and mortality in patients with cancer. Gallium nitrate and the bisphosphonate, etidronate, are new agents that have recently become available for treatment of this disorder. To directly compare therapeutic effectiveness, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study of gallium nitrate compared with etidronate for acute control of cancer-related hypercalcemia. Gallium nitrate was administered by continuous intravenous (IV) infusion at a dose of 200 mg/m2/d. Etidronate was administered as a 4-hour IV infusion at a dose of 7.5 mg/kg. Both drugs were given daily for 5 consecutive days. Eligible patients had persistent moderate-to-severe hypercalcemia (total serum calcium [corrected for serum albumin] greater than or equal to 12.0 mg/dL) after 2 days of hospitalization and IV hydration. Seventy-one patients were randomized and treated. Twenty-eight of 34 patients (82%) who received gallium nitrate achieved normocalcemia compared with 16 of 37 patients (43%) who received etidronate (P less than .001). Patients who received etidronate required significantly greater amounts of IV fluids (P = .04) and more hypocalcemic drug treatment (P less than .05) during the poststudy period than patients who received gallium nitrate. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a significantly longer median duration of normocalcemia for patients treated with gallium nitrate (8 days v 0 days, P = .0005). A significantly higher proportion of patients treated with gallium nitrate developed asymptomatic hypophosphatemia compared with patients treated with etidronate (97% v 43%, P less than .001). We conclude that gallium nitrate is highly effective and superior to etidronate for acute control of moderate-to-severe cancer-related hypercalcemia. 
Postural differences between asymptomatic men and women and craniofacial pain patients. A forward head position and rounded shoulders have been implicated in the development or perpetuation of craniomandibular disorders. Since women seek treatment for these problems more frequently than men, postural differences may account for the increased incidence of symptoms in women. The purposes of this study were (1) to compare the sagittal head and shoulder posture of asymptomatic men and women and (2) to compare the posture of asymptomatic and symptomatic women to determine differences in sagittal plane posture. Subjects were 20 asymptomatic men and women volunteers and nine consecutive women patients presenting for evaluation and treatment of craniomandibular pain. The subjects were compared using a valid, reliable, computer-assisted slide digitizing system called the Postural Analysis Digitizing System (PADS). Asymptomatic men and women did not differ in the postural characteristics associated with craniomandibular disorders. Sagittal posture does not appear to be a gender-related factor in these disorders. Symptomatic women, however, do display these postural characteristics to a greater extent than asymptomatic women. Evaluation and treatment of postural dysfunction should be included in the management of these patients. 
Placental bed spiral arteries in the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE--The investigation of the histology of the placental bed spiral arteries in normal pregnancy and in pregnancies complicated by hypertension, with or without proteinura. DESIGN--An observational study, based on women having caesarean sections for clinical reasons. SUBJECTS--17 normal pregnant women, 43 with gestational hypertension, of whom 39 had proteinuria, 17 with chronic hypertension, of whom 6 had proteinuria, and 5 with unclassified hypertension. INTERVENTIONS--Placental bed biopsies obtained during caesarean section. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Histological appearance of sections stained with haematoxylin and eosin PAS and Lendrum's MSB. RESULTS--Biopsies containing spiral arteries were obtained from 6 normotensive and 44 hypertensive women. Trophoblastic invasion was present in 5 of the 6 normotensive biopsies but absent in the majority of those with hypertension. Subintimal proliferation was seen in all the normotensive biopsies but in only 8 of 28 from those with gestational hypertension and proteinuria. Other features seen predominantly or only in the hypertensive biopsies, in order of frequency, were medial hyperplasia, fibrin deposits, acute atherosis, endothelial vacuolation and thrombosis. CONCLUSION--Absence of physiological changes may not be peculiar to preeclampsia but may be associated or even a result of various forms of hypertension in pregnancy. Spiral arteries show a spectrum of changes in hypertensive pregnancies that do not appear to bear a clear-cut relation to the clinical signs. 
Capillary refill--is it a useful predictor of hypovolemic states? STUDY OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether the capillary refill test can correctly differentiate between hypovolemic and euvolemic emergency department patients. DESIGN: A prospective, nonrandomized, nonblinded time series. SETTING: The orthostatic and hypotensive patients were seen in a university hospital ED with 44,000 visits per year. Blood donors were studied in the hospital's blood donor center. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-two adult ED patients who presented with a history suggestive of hypovolemia and either abnormal orthostatic vital signs (19) or frank hypotension (13), and 47 volunteer blood donors who ranged in age from 19 to 83 participated. INTERVENTIONS: Capillary refill was measured before rehydration in the ED subjects and, in the donor group, before and after a 450-mL blood donation. MEASUREMENTS: Sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values were calculated. Analyses were stratified by age, sex, and study group. MAIN RESULTS: For the blood donor group, mean capillary refill time before donation was 1.4 seconds and after donation was 1.1 seconds. Mean capillary refill time for the orthostatic group was 1.9 seconds and for the hypotensive group was 2.8 seconds. When scored with age-sex specific upper limits of normal, the sensitivity of capillary refill in identifying hypovolemic patients was 6% for the 450-mL blood loss group, 26% for the orthostatic group, and 46% for the hypotensive group. The accuracy of capillary refill in a patient with a 50% prior probability of hypovolemia is 64%. Orthostatic vital signs were found to be more sensitive and specific than capillary refill in detecting the 450-mL blood loss. CONCLUSION: Capillary refill does not appear to be a useful test for detecting mild-to-moderate hypovolemia in adults. 
Restricted T cell expression of IL-2/IFN-gamma mRNA in human inflammatory disease. It has been difficult to demonstrate functionally distinct T cell populations in humans on the basis of cytokine secretion. As previous investigators have examined the T cell cytokine profile from immunized animals, we examined whether Th1 or Th2 type T cells could be identified in the peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) immune compartments from subjects with or without inflammatory diseases. Using limiting dilution analysis and growth with PHA and IL-2/IL-4, we directly cloned a total of 177 T cells from the peripheral blood and CSF of seven subjects, four with inflammatory disease and three control subjects, and examined the cytokine message profile after stimulation with ionomycin and PMA. We found that most clones from both the peripheral blood and CSF express IL-1, IL-2, IL-4, IFN-gamma, or TNF-alpha cytokine mRNA after activation with ionomycin and PMA. All T cell clones tested produced TNF-alpha mRNA, and all but 14 produced IFN-gamma mRNA. As reported previously, Th0 cells, which produced IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-4, and IL-5 mRNA, were found in most subjects. In striking contrast, Th1 cells, which expressed IL-2 and IFN-gamma but not IL-4 or IL-5 mRNA, were present in both peripheral blood and CSF of subjects with inflammatory disease but not found in peripheral blood or CSF of subjects without systemic inflammation. Th2 cells, expressing IL-4 and IL-5 but not IFN-gamma or IL-2 mRNA, were not found in any subject. These data present the first evidence for Th1 T cell clones in humans that may be associated with systemic inflammation. 
A critical threshold of exercise capacity in the ventilatory response to exercise in heart failure. During exercise patients with chronic left heart failure ventilate more than normal individuals at the same workload; the ratio of minute ventilation to minute production of carbon dioxide (VE/VCO2) is increased. The relation between increased VE/VCO2, severity of heart failure, and exercise capacity has not been defined. VE/VCO2 was measured in 47 patients with chronic left heart failure (New York Heart Association grades II and III) and in 1009 healthy controls. Exercise capacity was assessed by peak oxygen consumption (VO2max) during progressive exercise. In the controls VO2max ranged from 25 to 93 ml/kg/min; VE/VCO2 was 17-36 and did not correlate with VO2max. In chronic left heart failure the VO2max ranged from 9 to 29 ml/kg/min; VE/VCO2 was 22-42 and correlated strongly with VO2max. End tidal carbon dioxide and respiratory rate at peak exercise were similar in the controls and patients with chronic left heart failure. The increase in VE/VCO2 on exercise in chronic left heart failure indicates increased physiological dead space, presumably caused by a ventilation-perfusion mismatch. In the controls and patients with chronic left heart failure the relation of VE/VCO2 to VO2max was curvilinear with a threshold of VO2max below which VE/VCO2 started to rise above the normal range. This point of inflection may be explained by the existence of a critical level of cardiac function necessary to perfuse adequately all lung zones on exercise. 
Loss of both CSF1R (FMS) alleles in patients with myelodysplasia and a chromosome 5 deletion. A high proportion of patients with myelodysplasia show characteristic karyotypic abnormalities in bone marrow cells. The most distinctive of the myelodysplastic syndromes is the 5q- syndrome characterized by refractory anemia, poorly lobulated megakaryocytes, and an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 5 (5q deletion) as the sole karyotypic abnormality. Recently, several genes encoding hemopoietic growth factors and receptors, comprising the interleukins 3, 4, and 5, macrophage colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte/macrophage-colony-stimulating factor, and the receptor for macrophage-colony-stimulating factor [the CSF1R (formerly FMS) gene product], have been localized to the long arm of chromosome 5, and there has been much speculation that deletion of one or more of these genes may be critical to the pathogenesis of the associated myeloid disorders. One candidate gene is CSF1R, which is required for normal proliferation and differentiation of hemopoietic cells of the myeloid lineage. We have carried out a molecular examination of the CSF1R, both on the 5q- chromosome and on the apparently normal homologous chromosome 5, in 10 patients with myelodysplasia and a 5q deletion. We have found, using restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and gene dosage experiments, that all 10 patients showed deletion of CSF1R; 6 of 10 were hemizygous and 4 of 10 homozygous for CSF1R loss. The homozygous CSF1R loss has been confirmed in 2 patients by an in situ hybridization technique comparing the signal in affected cells to that in control sex-mismatched cells on the same slides. In those patients considered to have homozygous CSF1R loss by DNA experiments the gene was deleted from the 5q chromosome in all cells and from the apparently normal chromosome 5 in a subset of cells. This loss of one CSF1R allele, together with loss in some cells of the remaining allele on the homologous chromosome 5, in patients with myelodysplasia indicates that this is a region of critical gene loss on 5q. The loss of the hemopoietic growth factor receptor gene CSF1R may be important in the pathogenesis of human myeloid leukemia. 
Life-threatening angioedema. Angioedema is a well-recognized edema involving the deeper layers of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and mucosa. From July 1986 to July 1989 the authors have observed and treated 10 patients admitted to the Medical College of Virginia (MCV) Hospitals in Richmond, Virginia, with life-threatening angioedema as a complication of enalapril or captopril ingestion. Both drugs are angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors prescribed for antihypertensive activity and the ability to improve symptoms in patients with congestive heart failure. We describe the clinical symptoms, diagnosis, and management of these patients, as well as reasons for each occurrence. Sporadic reports of angioedema secondary to ACE inhibitor therapy have appeared in the literature. This represents the first time a significant series of patients from the same institution have encountered this complication over a short period of time, suggesting that the complication may be much more common than has been thought. 
Brucellosis as a cause of severe colitis. A 16-yr-old girl presented with osteomyelitis and massive rectal bleeding. Colonoscopy revealed severe nonspecific colitis. Multiple laboratory investigations failed to disclose the etiology of either the bone or colon infections. Empiric treatment with corticosteroids and sulfasalazine resulted in only transient improvement. One month after discharge, her original symptoms recurred. Blood and pus cultures at this time yielded Brucella melitensis. After tetracycline treatment, the patient recovered. At 1-yr follow-up, she was found completely asymptomatic. Although osteomyelitis is a well-known manifestation of brucellosis, colitis related to this agent has so far not been described. 
Atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli in stroke patients. In 539 consecutive stroke patients admitted to a rehabilitation department, we studied the possible role of atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism by analyzing a series of relevant clinical data in patients with and without atrial fibrillation and in patients with and without venous thromboembolic complications. Deep venous thrombosis as well as advanced age and cardiac disease were significantly (p less than 0.001) more frequent in patients with atrial fibrillation. However, in a model of simultaneous logistic regression carried out on the presence of absence of venous thromboembolic complications, atrial fibrillation was the only significant risk factor. In view of the morbidity and mortality linked to deep venous thrombosis, our findings argue for preventive anticoagulation therapy in stroke patients suffering from atrial fibrillation and merit further study. 
Zoladex versus orchiectomy in treatment of advanced prostate cancer: a randomized trial. Zoladex Prostate Study Group. We report preliminary results for the first 164 patients enrolled in a multicenter study comparing the endocrine effects, efficacy, and safety of 3.6 mg of goserelin acetate (Zoladex) and orchiectomy in patients with Stage D2 prostate cancer. Eighty-one patients were randomly allocated to receive Zoladex and 83 to orchiectomy. The median follow-up time for all patients was two hundred ten days. Median serum levels of testosterone were reduced to castrate levels (less than 50 ng/dL) within four weeks in both groups and remained suppressed for up to sixty weeks. An objective response according to modified criteria of the National Prostatic Cancer Project was observed in 81 percent and 78 percent of patients in the Zoladex and orchiectomy groups, respectively. There were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups in the distributions of time to treatment failure or time to disease progression. The most commonly reported adverse events in both treatment groups were hot flashes, cancer-related pain, unspecified pain, and urinary symptoms. These results suggest that Zoladex may offer an alternative to orchiectomy in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer. 
Lateral pharyngeal space abscess as a consequence of regional anesthesia. Trismus may be a complication from local anesthesia. Patients with trismus of unknown cause after dental treatment should be evaluated thoroughly. The dentist should perform a complete examination and establish a differential diagnosis to avoid missing a serious or life-threatening infection. A right lateral pharyngeal space infection developed after a general restorative procedure that involved an inferior alveolar nerve injection on the same side. The patient's severe trismus required awake intubation, incision and drainage while the patient was under general anesthesia, treatment with antibiotics and ten days of hospitalization. 
Occupational contact dermatitis due to acrylonitrile. Within DSM Chemicals BV, a producer of acrylonitrile, skin complaints are frequent. The majority of these are of an irritant nature, while a smaller portion is based on acquired allergies. Allergological examination revealed 5 employees with an allergy to acrylonitrile. 1 of these subjects also developed paraesthesiae in the skin sites affected, a finding not previously described for acrylonitrile. In the guinea pig maximization test (GPMT), acrylonitrile showed strong allergenic potential. For prevention and treatment of contact allergologic disorders, close cooperation between occupational health officer, dermatologist and toxicologist in chemical companies is recommended. 
The causes of hospital-treated acute lower respiratory tract infection in children. OBJECTIVE: To determine the etiologic agents in children with acute lower respiratory infection. DESIGN: A survey of a series of patients. SETTING: General pediatric hospital serving an urban population with and without referrals in Helsinki, Finland. PARTICIPANTS: 135 Finnish children aged 2 months to 15 years (mean, 1.75 years), with clinically defined acute lower respiratory infection (with difficulty of breathing), or found to have fever and a pneumonic infiltrate on chest roentgenogram. SELECTION PROCEDURES: Consecutive sample on voluntary basis. INTERVENTIONS: None. MAIN RESULTS: Of 121 children with adequate samples, an etiologic diagnosis could be established in 84 (70%): 30 (25%) had bacterial, 30 (25%) viral, and 24 (20%) mixed infections. Antibody assays alone identified the agent in 91% of positive cases. CONCLUSIONS: Bacterial infections are common but generally underestimated in acute lower respiratory infection; serologic methods add significantly to their detection. 
Unusual clinical presentation of malignant histiocytosis in a 70-year-old woman. A 70-year-old woman was admitted for evaluation of hepatosplenomegaly, fever and elevated serum LDH levels. A biopsy specimen of the liver revealed histiocytic proliferation at the portal triad, and a mild degree of hepatitis. A bone marrow biopsy specimen showed proliferation of histiocytes with minimal immaturity and atypism, and haemophagocytosis by the proliferated histiocytes. Fever, hepatosplenomegaly and elevation of LDH levels all disappeared spontaneously, and presumptive diagnosis of benign reticulosis with haemophagocytosis was made. One year later, fever, hepatosplenomegaly and elevation of LDH levels redeveloped, and the liver and bone marrow biopsy specimen showed proliferation of unequivocally malignant histiocytes. The patient died as a result of disseminated intravascular coagulation with shock 20 d later. We concluded that, in this case, malignant histiocytosis first presented as benign haemophagocytic reticulosis and, 1 year later, there was a typical malignant presentation. 
Avoidance of tolerance and lack of rebound with intermittent dose titrated transdermal glyceryl trinitrate. The Transdermal Nitrate Investigators. OBJECTIVES--To investigate the efficacy of transdermal glyceryl trinitrate given continuously and with a nocturnal nitrate free period. DESIGN--Double blind placebo controlled study with two parallel limbs. SETTING--Multicentre trial. PATIENTS--52 patients randomised to receive either continuous treatment (23 patients) or intermittent treatment with an individually titrated dose (29 patients) for 14 days: both treatments were compared with placebo in a cross-over fashion. INTERVENTION--Continuous treatment with 10 mg per 24 hours of transdermal glyceryl trinitrate or intermittent transdermal glyceryl trinitrate titrated to give an arbitrary 10 mm Hg drop in systolic blood pressure (mean dose 18.2 mg) given over approximately 16 hours. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Treadmill exercise stress testing and ambulatory monitoring of the ST segment after 14 days' treatment. RESULTS--After 14 days' intermittent treatment resting supine and standing systolic blood pressure fell by 7.5 mm Hg (95% confidence interval 2.7 to 12.2) and 9.0 mm Hg (95% CI 3.4 to 14.5) respectively (p less than 0.01); resting heart rate was unchanged. Mean heart rate at 1 mm ST segment depression rose by 11.9 beats/min (CI 1.1 to 23.7) (p less than 0.05), mean time to onset of angina increased by 59 seconds (CI 10.8 to 108) (p less than 0.05), and total exercise duration increased by 40 seconds (p less than 0.05). These changes were not seen after continuous treatment. The frequency of ischaemic episodes was not reduced with either regimen nor was the circadian distribution of these episodes altered, in particular nocturnal episodes did not increase during intermittent treatment. CONCLUSION--Tolerance to glyceryl trinitrate was avoided by the use of individually titrated doses administered with a nocturnal nitrate free period. There was no evidence of "rebound" on ambulatory monitoring during this treatment. 
Management of severe frontobasilar skull fractures. Immediate reconstruction of severely comminuted frontobasilar skull fractures involving the frontal sinus can be accomplished safely if the sinus is cranialized and the floor of the anterior cranial fossa is totally reconstructed. Operative time can be reduced if the pieces of the frontal bone are reassembled and stabilized with rigid fixation devices out of the surgical field and thus made ready for reinsertion as a single unit after any necessary neurosurgical procedures are completed. Immediate reconstruction provides postoperative protection for the brain and eliminates the need to return the patient to the operating room for cranioplasty at a later date. 
Nomenclature of vasculitic syndromes: a historical perspective. Since the original description of periarteritis nodosa (PAN) in 1866, the number of recognized forms of so-called idiopathic vasculitis has risen to about a dozen. Their relation to each other and their nature remain unclear, although the recent discovery of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) promises a clue to the origin of at least some of them, particularly Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) and perhaps also Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS). On the other hand, PAN appears to be a nonspecific syndrome of various etiologies. 
Comparative efficacy and safety of bepridil and diltiazem in chronic stable angina pectoris refractory to diltiazem. The Bepridil Collaborative Study Group. The efficacy and safety of bepridil hydrochloride (200 to 400 mg/day) were evaluated in patients with chronic stable angina refractory to maximal tolerated doses of diltiazem (median 360 mg/day) in a randomized, multicenter, double-blind, parallel study. Baseline diltiazem data were obtained during a 2-week period, after which 86 patients were randomized to bepridil (n = 46) or diltiazem (n = 40). Angina frequency, nitroglycerin consumption and ischemic manifestations induced by exercise treadmill testing were evaluated over 8 weeks. Bepridil significantly (p less than 0.05) increased time to angina onset, time to 1 and 2 mm of ST-segment depression, total exercise time and total work over baseline values. Changes in time to angina onset and time to 1 mm of ST-segment depression were significantly (p less than 0.05) greater for bepridil than for diltiazem. Angina frequency and nitroglycerin consumption did not differ significantly between groups. Compared with baseline, bepridil significantly (p less than 0.001) decreased heart rate (mean 4 beats/min) and prolonged QTc (mean 35 ms). The most frequent adverse effects in both groups were nausea, asthenia, dizziness, headache and diarrhea. Four patients taking bepridil and 1 taking diltiazem withdrew from the study because of adverse reactions. No sudden deaths, myocardial infarctions or instances of sustained ventricular tachycardia or torsades de pointes occurred in either group. The data indicate that bepridil provided safe and effective antianginal and antiischemic therapy in patients with chronic stable angina who exhibited less than optimal response to maximal tolerated doses of diltiazem. 
Chemical meningism after lumbar facet joint block with local anaesthetic and steroids. A case is reported in which chemical meningism occurred after lumbar facet joint block with methylprednisolone acetate and bupivacaine. This complication was probably due to inadvertent dural puncture. The use of steroids in facet joint injections is questioned. 
Sural nerve morphometry in diabetic autonomic and painful sensory neuropathy. A clinicopathological study. Observations have been made on a selected series of insulin-dependent patients with neuropathy, subdivided into three groups: (1) severe autonomic neuropathy with an accompanying painless sensory neuropathy; (2) severe autonomic neuropathy with a chronic painful sensory neuropathy; and (3) chronic or acute painful sensory neuropathy with no autonomic neuropathy. All three groups showed a loss of large and small myelinated nerve fibres in sural nerve biopsy specimens which was greater in Groups 1 and 2. Regenerative activity was prominent in all three groups, but least in Group 3. Teased fibre studies showed evidence both of axonal regeneration and remyelination. Active fibre degeneration was rare. Measurements of g ratio (axon diameter:total fibre diameter) gave no indication of axonal atrophy. The density of unmyelinated axons was reduced in all three groups, as was their median diameter. Vibration sense threshold was positively correlated with the total number of myelinated fibres and thermal sensory threshold with median unmyelinated axon diameter but not with total unmyelinated axon numbers. No correlation between the occurrence of pain and active degeneration of myelinated fibres or with regenerative activity either in myelinated or unmyelinated axons was detectable. Assessment of differential loss of large or small myelinated nerve fibres was difficult because of the presence of large numbers of small regenerating myelinated axons. The results are discussed in relation to the concept of 'diabetic small fibre neuropathy' and the causation of pain in diabetic neuropathy. 
Four years of North American registry home parenteral nutrition outcome data and their implications for patient management. The OASIS Registry started annual collection of longitudinal data on patients on home parenteral nutrition (HPN) in 1984. This report describes outcome profiles on 1594 HPN patients in seven disease categories. Analysis showed clinical outcome was principally a reflection of the underlying diagnosis. Patients with Crohn's disease, ischemic bowel disease, motility disorders, radiation enteritis, and congenital bowel dysfunction all had a fairly long-term clinical outcome, whereas those with active cancer and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) had a short-term outcome. The long-term group had a 3-year survival rate of 65 to 80%, they averaged 2.6 complications requiring hospitalization per year, and 49% experienced complete rehabilitation. The short-term group had a mean survival of 6 months; they averaged 4.6 complications per year and about 15% experienced complete rehabilitation. The registry data also indicated HPN was used for 19,700 patients in 1987 with therapy growth averaging about 8% per year. This growth was chiefly from new cancer patients. The number of new patients with long-term disorders in whom HPN was initiated appeared rather constant. We conclude that these clinical outcome assessments justify HPN for long-term patients, but the utility and appropriateness of HPN for the cancer and AIDS patients remains uncertain and requires further study. Medical, social, and fiscal aspects of HPN management in long-term and short-term patients appear to involve quite separate considerations. 
Fluid collections developing after pancreatic transplantation: radiologic evaluation and intervention. The usefulness of real-time sonography, duplex sonography, computed tomography (CT), cystography, diagnostic aspiration, and percutaneous drainage in the diagnosis and treatment of peri-pancreatic-transplant fluid collections was retrospectively assessed in 46 recipients of extraperitoneal pancreatic transplants. Forty-four abnormalities were identified in the extraperitoneal space at sonography, including four pancreatic pseudocysts associated with malfunction of the pancreatic duct, seven abscesses, six hematomas, nine urinomas, six early postoperative fluid collections that spontaneously resolved, six cases of pancreatitis, and six cases of vascular occlusion. Sonography (including pulsed Doppler sonography) was the procedure of choice in detecting fluid collections and diagnosing pancreatitis, rejection, vascular thrombosis, and pancreatic duct malfunction. CT was diagnostic in four of six hematomas; cystography was diagnostic in seven of nine urinomas. Sonographically guided percutaneous intervention enabled three patients to avoid surgery and allowed optimal surgical planning for six patients. 
Brachial approach to emergency cardiac catheterization during thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. TAMI Study Group. The use of the brachial approach to acute coronary intervention has not been previously studied. In the course of the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) trials, we used the transbrachial approach to cardiac catheterization with or without angioplasty in 202 of 704 (28.6%) patients. The baseline characteristics of age, sex, risk factors, medical history, time from symptom onset to therapy, and left ventricular function were similar for the 2 different approaches. Time from therapy to coronary angiography was not delayed by the brachial approach compared with the femoral approach: 97.1 +/- 26 min vs. 99.9 +/- 133.8 min, respectively. Chemical patency was established in 78 vs. 73% of patients and technical success with acute PTCA with the brachial approach was 89% vs. 78% with the femoral approach. Clinical outcomes were quite similar with respect to death (6 vs. 6%), reocclusion (10 vs. 14%), and emergency coronary bypass surgery (5 vs. 6%). Baseline hematocrit was 43.9 +/- 4.4 and 43.5 +/- 4.8, respectively with a nadir of 32.9 +/- 5.6 vs. 33.0 +/- 5.4. The need for vascular repair occurred in 1% vs. 3% of patients and retroperitoneal hemorrhage was documented in 1% vs. 1% of patients. This study indicates that in the hands of experienced operators the transbrachial approach to acute coronary intervention in the acute phase of treatment with thrombolytic therapy can be used with equal risks and efficacy as the femoral approach. 
Human orthotopic small intestine transplantation: radiologic assessment. The authors describe the postoperative anatomy and review the radiologic examinations of five patients who underwent orthotopic small intestine or combined orthotopic liver and small intestine transplantation. Mucosal thickening of the transplanted intestine was demonstrated on the first postoperative contrast material-enhanced images and was due to submucosal edema. This resolved within 2 weeks in the long-term survivors. Bowel peristalsis appeared normal as early as 31 days after transplantation. Contrast-enhanced examinations of the intestine were useful to exclude surgical complications such as anastomotic leaks or strictures, but were insensitive for biopsy-proved cytomegalovirus enteritis or rejection. 
Renal and extra-renal levels of renin mRNA in experimental hypertension. 1. Using a ribonuclease-protection assay, renin mRNA levels were compared in the kidneys, livers, brains, hearts and adrenal glands of two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt hypertensive rats with those of age-matched control rats at 4 weeks ('early') and 20 weeks ('chronic') after clipping, and in the kidneys and adrenal glands of rats treated for 3 weeks with deoxycorticosterone and salt (deoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension) with those of control rats. 2. While marked changes were observed in kidney renin mRNA levels in all three experimental groups compared with their respective controls, in most of the extra-renal tissue studied minimal, if any, difference was seen in renin mRNA levels between the hypertensive and control rats. 3. The findings suggest that in these extra-renal tissues renin gene expression is differently regulated from that in the kidney, and particularly that it is not profoundly affected by changes in the level of circulating angiotensin II. 4. An increase in renin mRNA was observed in the adrenal glands of the 'chronic' Goldblatt rats, which may be of relevance to the maintenance of hypertension in this model. 
Solitary colonic metastasis from renal-cell carcinoma 17 years after nephrectomy. Report of a case. Late recurrence of renal-cell carcinoma can present many years after nephrectomy. To the best of our knowledge, we are reporting the first known case of solitary metastatic renal-cell carcinoma to the colon occurring 17 years after nephrectomy. 
Pedicle patch urethroplasty. The pedicle patch urethroplasty provides an alternative single-stage vascularised graft procedure for the repair of moderately severe hypospadias. Over a 7-year period, 38 primary hypospadias repairs were performed employing this technique. The fistula rate was 18% in the 34 patients reviewed, but there were few other significant complications. The operation is recommended when the urethral plate can be preserved and the penis straightened in boys who are unsuitable for a meatal-based flap. 
Brachial approach to management of an abdominal aortic occlusion with prolonged lysis and subsequent angioplasty. The brachial approach for recanalizing an abdominal aortic occlusion utilizing a combination of thrombolysis and balloon angioplasty is described. The patient was deemed too ill to permit any surgical intervention. The unique aspects of the procedure are described including angioplasty of the unmasked (by lytic therapy) aortoiliac bifurcation stenoses utilizing double wires and double balloons through a single arteriotomy site. The advantages of the brachial approach in managing this unusual entity are outlined. 
Regression of left ventricular hypertrophy in the short-term treatment of hypertension with isradipine. This was a study of the effectiveness of isradipine, a calcium antagonist of the dihydropyridine group, in reversing left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Mean arterial pressure was effectively reduced at 90 days of treatment (from 129.5 +/- 2.0 to 111.5 +/- 2.8 mm Hg; P less than .001). The electrocardiographic Romhilt-Estes score for LVH showed early reduction at 45 days of treatment (from 7.1 +/- 0.6 to 5.1 +/- 0.4 points; P less than .001), and further diminutions were observed at 90 days of treatment (3.8 +/- 0.4 points; P less than .01). The echocardiographically determined left ventricular mass indices confirmed these findings (from 175.0 +/- 8.9 to 141.7 +/- 5.5 and to 124.8 +/- 4.2 g/m2; P less than .001) for 45 and 90 days, respectively. The results indicate that isradipine is effective in reducing left ventricular mass and that these reductions are observed early in the course of treatment. 
Neutralization of low molecular weight heparin by polybrene prevents thromboxane release and severe pulmonary hypertension in awake sheep Protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation in patients is occasionally associated with life-threatening acute pulmonary hypertension. In a sheep model, we evaluated the effect on this adverse cardiopulmonary reaction of modifying the type of heparin (low molecular weight heparin compared with unfractionated heparin) and the type of heparin antagonist (polybrene compared with protamine). Protamine reversal of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and polybrene reversal of unfractionated heparin induced more than a 10-fold increase of plasma thromboxane B2 levels, a threefold increase of pulmonary vascular resistance and pulmonary artery pressure, and a 25% decrease of PaO2. A similar adverse reaction followed protamine reversal of conventional unfractionated heparin. However, with polybrene (1 mg/kg) reversal of LMWH (1 mg/kg), we measured neither pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery pressure was 22.6 +/- 3.6 mm Hg at 1 minute after polybrene reversal of LMWH compared with 47.9 +/- 4.2 mm Hg after protamine reversal of unfractionated heparin, p less than 0.005 groups differ), hypoxemia (PaO2 was unchanged 2 minutes after polybrene compared with a decrease of 26 mm Hg 2 minutes after protamine, p less than 0.05), nor acute release of thromboxane into arterial plasma (thromboxane B2 was 0.2 +/- 0.1 at 1 minute after polybrene compared with 3.7 +/- 1.7 ng/ml at 1 minute after protamine, p less than 0.005). The hemodynamic effects and mediator release were also benign after neutralization of larger doses of LMWH (3 mg/kg) by polybrene (3 mg/kg). The increases of activated clotting time and activated partial thromboplastin time due to both types of heparin were completely reversed with polybrene. Anti-Xa activity increased to more than 3 IU/ml 4 minutes after LMWH anticoagulation (p less than 0.01) but was only partially neutralized by polybrene. Various polyanion-polycation complexes that are formed when heparin anticoagulation is reversed induce thromboxane release and acute pulmonary vasoconstriction in awake sheep. Reversal of LMWH anticoagulation with polybrene does not elicit this adverse reaction. 
Antibody to hepatitis C virus and liver disease in volunteer blood donors. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the specificity of antibodies to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) and their relation to liver disease in blood donors. DESIGN: Case series of consecutive blood donors found positive for anti-HCV by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Patients were evaluated for antibody specificity using a recombinant immunoblotting assay (RIBA) and were evaluated for biochemical evidence of liver disease. Patients showing increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels had a liver biopsy. SETTING: University hospital. PARTICIPANTS: Fifty consecutive blood donors found to be anti-HCV positive on both an initial and repeat ELISA. Inclusion criteria were as follows: an absence of hepatitis B surface antigens and non-organ-specific autoantibodies; a daily alcohol intake of less than 50 g; no history of recent hepatotoxic drug use; and normal serum levels of alpha 1 antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin, and copper. MAIN RESULTS: Anti-HCV positivity was confirmed by RIBA in only 13 of 50 donors (26%) who had positive ELISA results. These 13 donors had an elevated ALT level and histologic evidence of chronic hepatitis, which was active in 8 patients (62%) and had already produced cirrhosis in 2 patients (15%). In contrast, the 17 donors with an intermediate RIBA pattern had only mild and often nonspecific histologic liver abnormalities. The 20 patients with a negative RIBA result had normal ALT levels. CONCLUSION: In blood donors, the anti-HCV RIBA is not only more specific than the anti-HCV ELISA, but is also useful in identifying patients who have an underlying chronic liver disease. 
Late renal dysfunction in adult survivors of bone marrow transplantation. Until recently long-term renal toxicity has not been considered a major late complication of bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Late renal dysfunction has been described in a pediatric population status post-BMT which was attributable to the radiation in the preparatory regimen. A thorough review of adults with this type of late renal dysfunction has not previously been described. Fourteen of 103 evaluable adult patients undergoing allogeneic (96) or autologous (7) bone marrow transplantation, predominantly for leukemia and lymphomas, at the Medical College of Wisconsin (Milwaukee, WI) have had a syndrome of renal insufficiency characterized by increased serum creatinine, decreased glomerular filtration rate, anemia, and hypertension. This syndrome developed at a median of 9 months (range, 4.5 to 26 months) posttransplantation in the absence of specific identifiable causes. The cumulative probability of having this renal dysfunction is 20% at 1 year. Renal biopsies performed on seven of these cases showed the endothelium widely separated from the basement membrane, extreme thickening of the glomerular basement membrane, and microthrombi. Previous chemotherapy, antibiotics, and antifungals as well as cyclosporin may add to and possibly potentiate a primary chemoradiation marrow transplant renal injury, but this clinical syndrome is most analogous to clinical and experimental models of radiation nephritis. This late marrow transplant-associated nephritis should be recognized as a potentially limiting factor in the use of some intensive chemoradiation conditioning regimens used for BMT. Some selective attenuation of the radiation to the kidneys may decrease the incidence of this renal dysfunction. 
Pulmonary sequelae of prolonged total venoarterial bypass: evaluation with a new experimental model. Total normothermic venoarterial bypass was established in 6 healthy pigs over a period of 18 hours. A heparin-coated closed extracorporeal system was used and no heparin was administered systemically. During the bypass period the main pulmonary artery was occluded and the heart was maintained in a beating state. All the animals maintained stable hemodynamics and normal blood gases during the entire period of bypass. In the postbypass period, the central hemodynamics continued to be stable while the arterial oxygen tension (inspired oxygen fraction = 0.21) decreased significantly (p less than or equal to 0.05). The total body oxygen uptake, on the other hand, remained unaltered. All the animals died within 4 hours after weaning off the venoarterial bypass circuit on account of pulmonary edema in 2 and cardiac arrest in 4. Death was preceded by progressive pulmonary hypertension and lactacidosis in all the animals. Histological examination of the lungs showed pulmonary parenchymal damage ranging from interstitial edema to intraalveolar hemorrhage and parenchymal necrosis involving more than 80% of the pulmonary parenchyma. A normothermic total venoarterial bypass of 18 hours duration or more produces pulmonary edema of varying severity, pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary parenchymal necrosis, and lactacidosis in healthy juvenile pigs, resulting uniformly in their death. Despite these sequelae the systemic arterial hypoxemia may only be mild to moderate. 
Evaluation and management of patients with both peripheral vascular and coronary artery disease. The prevalence of serious angiographic coronary artery disease ranges from 37% to 78% in patients undergoing operation for peripheral vascular disease. Clinical studies have demonstrated that cardiac outcome after peripheral vascular surgery is not adequately predicted by the standard criteria of history, physical findings and rest electrocardiogram. An adequate exercise work load, left ventricular function and thallium redistribution have proved important in perioperative risk stratification. The choice of a perioperative functional cardiac test depends on patient-related factors and the nature of the peripheral vascular operation. Although procedures involving aortic cross-clamping exert a greater hemodynamic stress than do carotid endarterectomy and femoral popliteal surgery, late cardiac morbidity and mortality are significant in all patients with atherosclerotic disease. The decision to proceed with preoperative coronary angiography and myocardial revascularization should be based primarily on indications independent of the peripheral vascular procedure. However, peripheral vascular surgery may influence the timing of myocardial revascularization. Patients with high risk or unstable coronary artery disease may benefit from preoperative coronary revascularization, although this hypothesis remains unproved. In all patients, careful monitoring during and after operation is essential. All patients with peripheral vascular disease should be considered to be at lifelong risk for fatal and nonfatal cardiac events and should undergo appropriate clinical and laboratory evaluation and be treated accordingly. 
Perforation of the globe--a complication of peribulbar anaesthesia. Peribulbar anaesthesia has been recommended as a safer alternative to retrobulbar anaesthesia. We report a case of perforation of the globe sustained during peribulbar anaesthesia which resulted in blindness. Orbital injections are potentially dangerous, be they peribulbar or retrobulbar. To minimise the risk, short, blunt needles are advocated for the peribulbar route. 
Comparative study of sucralfate 2 grams twice daily versus sucralfate 1 gram four times daily in the treatment of benign gastric ulcers in outpatients. In a double-blind, randomized study, we compared the healing of gastric ulcer during a twice-daily regimen of 2 g sucralfate or sucralfate 1 g q.i.d. Patients receiving the former therapy received the tablets one-half hour before breakfast and at bedtime. Patients receiving sucralfate 1 g q.i.d. received their therapy 30 minutes before breakfast, lunch, and supper, and at bedtime. The study included 52 patients with endoscopically proven gastric ulcer; 41 patients completed the study. Healing was endoscopically assessed at 8 weeks and 12 weeks. After 8 and 12 weeks the healing rate for sucralfate 2 g b.i.d. was 67% and 92%, respectively; the healing rate of sucralfate 1 g q.i.d. was 59% and 71%, respectively. No statistically significant difference was found between the two regimens. The results suggest that 2 g sucralfate twice daily is as effective in the healing of gastric ulcer as 1 g sucralfate q.i.d. 
Cisplatin combination chemotherapy for elderly patients with urothelial tumours. The proportion of cancer patients who receive potentially curative therapy declines with increasing chronological age. Between January 1979 and January 1988, 36 patients aged from 76 to 84 years (median 78) consented to cisplatin combination chemotherapy. Eighteen patients received 1 to 7 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy (median 5). This resulted in a drop in creatinine clearance rate from 70 +/- 28.5 ml/min to 49 +/- 20 ml/min. Eight patients (44%) are alive without evidence of disease, with a whole group median survival of 23 months. The dose intensity of cisplatin was found to predict recurrence. Eighteen other patients were treated for metastatic disease; 39% had an objective response after receiving 2 to 9 cycles (median 7). Only 2 patients (11%) are alive and free of disease. In this group no significant kidney damage occurred and the dose intensity of cisplatin did not predict response. Treatment resulted in a significant sepsis rate (39%) and 6 patients (17%) withdrew from treatment because of toxicity. It was concluded that cisplatin combination chemotherapy can be administered without treatment-related death and its efficacy is similar to that in younger patients. Age should not exclude patients from the potential benefit of such therapy. An important cause of reduced benefit from chemotherapy among elderly patients may be the reduced dosage of cisplatin. 
Haem arginate in acute hereditary coproporphyria. An 11 year old boy presented with severe acute hereditary coproporphyria. Despite supportive measures his condition deteriorated after admission. Haem arginate, started two days after presentation, produced appreciable inhibition of porphyrin precursor overproduction and clinical improvement. 
The depth of thermal necrosis using the CO2 laser: a comparison of the superpulsed mode and conventional mode. In order to compare the depth of thermal necrosis on human skin using the superpulse CO2 laser to the conventional CO2 laser, single impacts of various laser settings were fired at both ends of fusiform excisions done for other clinical purposes. These laser impacts were then examined histologically and the superpulse mode was found to limit the depth of thermal necrosis by approximately a factor of two. 
Altered beta adrenergic receptor function in subjects with symptomatic mitral valve prolapse. Individuals with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) frequently show symptoms of a hyperadrenergic state. beta adrenergic receptor characteristics were compared in the lymphocytes of subjects with symptomatic MVP and control subjects during rest and exercise. At rest, the proportion of receptors binding agonist with high affinity, as determined from isoproterenol competition for (-)[125I]-iodopindolol binding sites, was greater in MVP subjects than in controls. With exercise, the proportion of high-affinity receptors in MVP subjects decreased to control levels. Isoproterenol stimulation of lymphocyte 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) also was greater in MVP subjects than in controls at rest, but not during exercise. Plasma catecholamine concentrations in MVP subjects were normal during both rest and exercise. Unlike exercise, isoproterenol infusion elicited clinical manifestations of increased adrenergic responsiveness in MVP subjects. The beta receptor in exercised MVP subjects exhibited unusually high affinity agonist binding (i.e. a lower dissociation constant KH than in either the same subjects at rest or exercised controls) and also abnormal coupling to the stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein (GS) of adenylate cyclase, as reflected by the inability of guanine nucleotide to convert the receptor to a low-affinity state. These findings suggest that functional alteration of the beta adrenergic receptor, in the absence of abnormal plasma catecholamine levels, might contribute to the hyperadrenergic state of MVP subjects at rest. However, desensitization of high affinity beta receptors or altered receptor-GS coupling might preserve normal adrenergic responsiveness during exercise. 
Radiofrequency catheter ablation of the atrioventricular junction from the left ventricle. BACKGROUND. The purpose of this study was to describe a new technique for catheter ablation of the atrioventricular junction using radiofrequency energy delivered in the left ventricle. METHODS AND RESULTS. Catheter ablation of the atrioventricular (AV) junction using a catheter positioned across the tricuspid annulus was unsuccessful in eight patients with a mean +/- SD age of 51 +/- 19 years who had AV nodal reentry tachycardia (three patients), orthodromic tachycardia using a concealed midseptal accessory pathway, atrial tachycardia, atrial flutter (two patients), or atrial fibrillation. Before attempts at catheter ablation of the AV junction, each patient had been refractory to pharmacological therapy, and four had failed attempts at either catheter modification of the AV node using radiofrequency energy or surgical and catheter ablation of the accessory pathway. Conventional right-sided catheter ablation of the AV junction using radiofrequency energy in six patients and both radiofrequency energy and direct current shocks in two patients was ineffective. The mean amplitude of the His bundle potential recorded at the tricuspid annulus at the sites of unsuccessful AV junction ablation was 0.1 +/- 0.08 mV, with a maximum His amplitude of 0.03-0.28 mV. A 7F deflectable-tip quadripolar electrode catheter with a 4-mm distal electrode was positioned against the upper left ventricular septum using a retrograde aortic approach from the femoral artery. Third-degree AV block was induced in each of the eight patients with 20-36 W applied for 15-30 seconds. The His bundle potential at the sites of successful AV junction ablation ranged from 0.06 to 0.99 mV, with a mean of 0.27 +/- 0.32 mV. There was no rise in the creatine kinase-MB fraction and no complications occurred. An intrinsic escape rhythm of 30-60 beats/min was present in seven of the eight patients. Each patient received a permanent pacemaker and has been asymptomatic during 3-13 months of follow-up. CONCLUSIONS. Catheter ablation of the AV junction can be achieved effectively and safely using radiofrequency energy delivered in the left ventricle when the conventional right-sided approach is unsuccessful. 
Toward an integrated understanding of fibromyalgia syndrome. II. Psychological and phenomenological aspects. The present paper is the second of a 2-part series in which extant empirical literature concerning fibromyalgia syndrome (FS) is reviewed in order to provide a preliminary approach to forming an integrated understanding of the syndrome. Research on psychological disturbance in FS is reviewed with particular emphasis on affective dysfunction among FS patients. The phenomenology of FS is then described. We attempt to suggest that FS represents a quantitatively and qualitatively experience distinct from similar chronic pain syndromes. Substantive findings in FS research are summarized in the final section and potential ways in which these findings might be integrated to provide a more cohesive model for future research are suggested. 
Phonolexical agraphia. Superimposition of acquired lexical agraphia on developmental phonological dysgraphia. Study of neuropsychological sequelae of a focal acquired brain lesion may bring out and help delineate the features of a compensated developmental language disorder and its anatomical substrate. A left-handed man with a history of phonological developmental dyslexia and dysgraphia learned in early adulthood to read and write using a lexical system. Following a small posterior right parietal infarct when aged 56 yrs he developed a severe agraphia displaying features of phonological dysgraphia with impaired segmentation and features of lexical agraphia. Writing was severely impaired for all classes of word and nonword stimuli but his errors did not resemble those attributable to a deficit in the system responsible for the short-term storage of the graphemic representation of a word (graphemic output buffer). These observations imply that an acquired lexical agraphia has been superimposed on his developmental phonological dysgraphia, resulting in a combined or 'phonolexical' agraphia. 
Siriraj stroke score and validation study to distinguish supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage from infarction. OBJECTIVES--To develop a simple, reliable, and safe diagnostic tool for acute stroke syndromes in a setting where computerised brain scanning was not readily available and to validate its accuracy with regard to pathological types of stroke. DESIGN--13 clinical variables that potentially might differentiate supratentorial cerebral haemorrhage from infarction were recorded and tested by multivariate analysis in a prospective study of 174 patients with acute stroke. In developing the Siriraj stroke score stepwise discriminant analysis of the variables was followed by a linear discriminant equation to differentiate between supratentorial haemorrhage and infarction. The score obtained was validated against scores in 206 other patients with stroke, computerised brain scans being used for definitive diagnosis. SETTING--Siriraj Hospital Medical School, Mahidol University, Bangkok. SUBJECTS--Prospective study: 174 consecutive patients with acute supratentorial stroke syndrome (not subarachnoid haemorrhage) admitted to Siriraj Hospital during 1984-5; validation study: 206 patients admitted to Siriraj Hospital or another hospital for supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage or infarction. RESULTS--The Siriraj stroke score was developed and calculated as (2.5 x level of consciousness) + (2 x vomiting) + (2 x headache) + (0.1 x diastolic blood pressure) - (3 x atheroma markers) - 12. A score above 1 indicates supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage, while a score below -1 indicates infarction. The score between 1 and -1 represents an equivocal result needing a computerised brain scan or probability curve to verify the diagnosis. In the validation study of the Siriraj stroke score the diagnostic sensitivities of the score for cerebral haemorrhage and cerebral infarction were 89.3% and 93.2% respectively, with an overall predictive accuracy of 90.3%. CONCLUSION--The Siriraj stroke score is widely accepted and applied in hospitals throughout Thailand as a simple and reliable bedside method for diagnosing acute stroke. 
Vagal body tumors. Six cases of vagal body tumor are reviewed. All first presented as painless neck masses with normal cranial nerve function. Otologic symptoms were infrequent, occurring only with temporal bone involvement. In true vagal paragangliomas, cranial nerve and auditory function is usually preserved until there is extensive disease of the skull base. Tumor progression after radiotherapy was documented in four patients, three of whom were treated with 4500 cGy or more. One patient was found to have regional lymph node metastases. The six patients had a total of 10 head and neck paragangliomas, illustrating the high incidence of synchronous and metachronous lesions. Because of the high incidence of multiple lesions, these tumors threaten lower cranial nerves bilaterally in many instances. Because cranial nerve function is preserved until late, and because vagal and accessory nerve paralysis is usually unavoidable with resection, we advocate conservative treatment in selected cases. It may be reasonable to postpone surgery until cranial nerve impairment becomes evident or other vital structures are threatened. 
Changing pattern of pulmonary metastases with adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with osteosarcoma: results from the multiinstitutional osteosarcoma study. The multiinstitutional osteosarcoma study (MIOS), a randomized trial of adjuvant therapy for osteosarcoma with a concurrent control group, registered 113 patients from June 1982 to August 1984. Preliminary analysis of the study indicated a significant event-free survival advantage favoring immediate adjuvant chemotherapy, (P less than .001). For patients treated with surgery alone or with surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy, the lungs were involved in more than 80% of the relapses. Patients relapsing after surgery alone tended to relapse earlier (P less than .01), had more pulmonary nodules (P less than .01), and had more frequent bilateral pulmonary involvement (P less than .01) than those treated with immediate postsurgical adjuvant chemotherapy. However, patients relapsing after treatment with surgery alone experienced a significantly longer interval to further disease progression (P less than .01) and improved survival after relapse (P = .01) when compared with patients who relapsed after treatment with immediate adjuvant chemotherapy. The only factor predictive of survival after relapse was if the patient could be made surgically disease-free after initial relapse (P = .03). 
Surgical treatment of limbic epilepsy associated with extrahippocampal lesions: the problem of dual pathology. The authors present their review of 178 patients who underwent en bloc temporal lobectomies as surgical treatment for intractable epilepsy. Hippocampal cell density was quantitatively analyzed and the histology of the anterior temporal lobe was reviewed. Fifty-four patients (30.3%) had evidence of extrahippocampal lesions in addition to neuronal cell loss within the hippocampus (the dual pathology group). The pattern of cell loss was analyzed in the remaining 124 cases (69.7%) with no extrahippocampal pathology, and compared with that of the dual pathology group and a control group of four nonepileptic patients. Hippocampal cell loss was found in almost all epileptic patients compared to the control group. Severe cell loss greater than 30% of control values was found in 88.7% of patients without extrahippocampal lesions, but in only 51.8% of patients with dual pathology. The difference between these two groups was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). In the dual pathology group, lesions of different pathology had a significant relationship with the degree of hippocampal cell loss: all 12 patients with glioma had mild cell loss, whereas all 13 patients with heterotopia were associated with severe cell loss. Severity of hippocampal cell loss was also analyzed in relation to seizure history: a prior severe head injury was associated with severe cell loss. Other factors such as seizure duration, secondary generalization, or family history of seizures were not associated with hippocampal damage. Dual pathology may produce a combination of neocortical and temporolimbic epilepsies that warrants a precise definition of the true epileptogenic area prior to surgical treatment. 
Reduction of central nervous system ischemic injury in rabbits using leukocyte adhesion antibody treatment. Activated leukocytes appear to be directly involved in ischemic central nervous system injury. A surface glycoprotein (CD18) on the leukocyte is required for endothelial adherence and subsequent function and can be blocked with leukocyte adhesion antibody treatment. We used two animal models to determine the efficacy of anti-CD18 antibody treatment in preserving neurologic function after central nervous system ischemia. We gave a dose of 1 mg/kg anti-CD18 to treatment rabbits 30 minutes before inducing irreversible ischemia in the brain with intraarterial microspheres or in the spinal cord using reversible aortic occlusion. Treatment with anti-CD18 produced a significant reduction in neurologic deficits in the reversible spinal cord model, but not in the irreversible microsphere model. This protective effect supports the active role of leukocytes in central nervous system reperfusion ischemic injury and offers potential for future therapy. 
Radical hysterectomy morbidity in relation to age. The complications of radical hysterectomy in patients 65 years and older were compared with those in women younger than 65. There was no statistical difference in complication rates between the two groups, although the older women had a significantly higher incidence of preoperative medical problems. No surgical deaths occurred in either group. Our data indicate that selected older women can tolerate radical hysterectomy as well as younger ones. 
Impact of the Children's Epilepsy Program on parents. A randomized controlled trial was conducted in Santiago, Chile to test the efficacy of the Children's Epilepsy Program, a child-centered, family-focused intervention developed and pilot tested in Los Angeles, CA, U.S.A., using a counseling model for parents of children with seizure disorders to help them (a) deal with their anger, resentment, and grief related to the loss of a normal child; (b) increase their knowledge about caring for their child; (c) reduce anxieties related to having a child with a seizure disorder; and (d) improve their decision-making skills. All parents were pretested and then retested 5 months after the educational interventions. Parents in the experimental group (n = 185) and their children separately attended four 1 1/2-h sessions and then met together at the end of each session to share learning experiences. Comparison group parents (n = 180) and their children jointly attended three 2-h lecture sessions followed by question-and-answer periods. Although parents' overall knowledge of epilepsy was relatively high initially, it improved considerably in both comparison and experimental groups. With regard to anxiety, at the 5-month evaluation, experimental group parents and mothers in particular were more likely than control parents to state that they were less anxious (p less than 0.001), and their anxiety, as measured by the Taylor Manifest Anxiety scale, was significantly reduced (p less than 0.01). 
Cancer risk notification: psychosocial and ethical implications. Basic and medical science investigations have identified a growing number of risk factors important in carcinogenesis. By communicating cancer risk information in medical practice, we have the potential to motivate high-risk individuals to adhere to cancer prevention and surveillance protocols. However, cancer screening and risk notification might have adverse psychologic and social consequences as well. In this review, we address the psychosocial and ethical implications of cancer risk notification. The literature on the psychosocial impact of cancer screening programs and programs for notifying workers exposed to occupational carcinogens is reviewed critically. In addition, we examine new concerns and responsibilities raised by the emerging field of cancer genetics. Suggestions for future research and for patient education are addressed. 
Long-term results after lateral cranial base surgery. The surgical management of patients with slow-growing benign temporal bone neoplasms has been criticized because of its significant morbidity and mortality compared with results after radiation therapy, but long-term control by irradiation remains unproved. Long-term surgical results have not been studied previously. One hundred twenty-nine skull base operations were performed in 126 patients at the Otology Group, Nashville, Tenn., from January 1970 through May 1987. Fifty-eight patients responded to questionnaires focusing on recovery from loss of cranial nerves. All patients regained some degree of facial function (class V or better), no alimentary tubes or tracheotomies were in use, and no patients had debilitating aspiration. Long-term compensation from the cranial nerve deficits of lateral skull base surgery can be expected in most patients and should not be used as an argument for irradiation in patients with a long life expectancy at time of diagnosis. 
Are depressive symptoms nonspecific in patients with acute stroke? OBJECTIVE: Some investigators have suggested that major depression might be overdiagnosed in stroke patients because of changes in appetite, sleep, or sexual interest caused by their medical illness; others have suggested that depression may be underdiagnosed in stroke patients who deny symptoms of depression because of anosognosia, neglect, or aprosody. The authors' goal was to determine how frequently depressive symptoms occur in acute stroke patients with and without depressed mood to estimate how often diagnostic errors of inclusion or exclusion may be made. METHOD: They examined the rate of autonomic and psychological symptoms of depression in 205 patients who were consecutively hospitalized for acute stroke. Eighty-five (41%) of these patients had depressed mood, and 120 (59%) had no mood disturbance. Forty-six (54%) of the 85 patients with depressed mood (22% of all patients) were assigned the DSM-III diagnosis of major depression. RESULTS: The 120 patients without mood disturbance had a mean of one autonomic symptom, but the 85 patients with depressed mood had a mean of almost four. Tightening the diagnostic criteria to account for one more nonspecific autonomic symptom decreased the number of patients with major depression by only three; adding two more criteria decreased the number by only five. Thus, the rate of DSM-III major depression was 1% higher than the rate with one extra nonspecific autonomic symptom and 2% higher than the rate with two extra criteria. Conversely, loosening diagnostic criteria to account for denial of depressive illness increased the rate of major depression by only 5%. CONCLUSIONS: Both autonomic and psychological depressive symptoms are strongly associated with depressed mood in acute stroke patients. 
Randomized comparative study of hemaccel vs. albumin infusion after total paracentesis in cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites. Fifty-four cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites were treated with one-session large-volume paracentesis and randomly assigned to two groups. The first group was infused with human albumin, and the second group was infused with hemaccel at doses with comparable oncotic power. The two groups were compared for incidence of complications, recurrence of massive ascites after hospital dismissal and survival rate. The incidence of complications traditionally related to paracentesis, the probability of requiring readmission to the hospital for ascites (p = 0.48) and the probability of survival after entry into the study (p = 0.85) were the same for the two groups. A multivariate analysis of 16 parameters, including treatment modality, identified absolute unresponsiveness to diuretics as the only independent predictor of mortality. These results indicate that hemaccel infusion may safely replace albumin infusion after total paracentesis for cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites. 
A retrospective analysis of therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease: secondary treatment. We have reviewed results of secondary therapy in 427 patients with acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) who did not have a durable satisfactory response after primary treatment. At the beginning of secondary treatment, 320 patients (75%) had rash, 252 (59%) had liver dysfunction, and 228 (53%) had gut dysfunction. Secondary treatment was with glucocorticoids (n = 249), cyclosporine (n = 80), antithymocyte globulin (n = 114), or monoclonal antibody (n = 19) either singly (n = 390) or in combination (n = 37). Parameters of GVHD severity were recorded weekly, and responses were determined according to values at the initiation of tertiary treatment or, for patients without such treatment, using values on day 29 of secondary treatment or the last recorded values before death, whichever occurred first. Minimal criteria for improvement or deterioration were defined for each organ, but no attempt was made to define liver or gut outcome if another complication such as venocclusive disease or infectious enteritis was present. Improvement or resolution of GVHD in the respective organ was seen in 45% of patients with skin disease, 25% of patients with evaluable liver disease, and in 35% of patients with evaluable gut disease. Overall complete or partial responses were seen in 40% of patients. The highest complete response rate with secondary therapy (23%) was seen when GVHD recurred during the taper phase of primary glucocorticoid treatment and was managed by increasing the dose of glucocorticoids. Multivariate analyses were performed to identify patient, disease, or treatment factors associated with likelihood of complete response or overall improvement. A similar analysis was performed to identify covariates associated with time to treatment failure (defined as initiation of tertiary therapy or death not due to relapse of malignancy). Severe dysfunction in the skin, liver, and gut at the beginning of treatment was associated both with a decreased likelihood of complete response and an increased treatment failure rate. The times to treatment failure and the proportions of patients in various response categories were similar for primary and secondary treatment, suggesting that the potential efficacy of new immunosuppressive agents for treatment of acute GVHD can be assessed meaningfully in patients who have not responded adequately to initial therapy. 
Gallbladder and pancreatic metastases from bilateral renal carcinoma presenting with hematobilia and anemia. A case of bilateral metachronous renal cell carcinoma with gallbladder and pancreatic metastases, presenting with hematobilia and anemia is presented. The presentation of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with hematobilia and anemia is previously unreported. This case illustrates (1) the occasionally very long interval between metachronous renal carcinoma; (2) this tumor's propensity to unusual metastases and unpredictable presentation; and (3) the significant palliation which may be achieved by appropriate surgical resection of these metastases. 
Prognostic factors in esophageal squamous carcinoma. A study of histologic features, blood group expression, and DNA ploidy. The authors studied 69 squamous carcinomas of the middle or lower esophagus to evaluate prognostic factors. Clinical and histologic parameters that were evaluated included weight loss, esophageal obstruction at presentation, site, gross configuration, degree of tumor differentiation, vascular invasion, the status of resection margins, and stage. Blood group antigen (BGA) expression in the tumors was determined immunohistochemically and compared with blood type and antigen reactivity in adjacent normal mucosa. A loss of BGA expression was seen in 27 tumors. This finding was correlated with high stage but was not significantly linked to survival. DNA ploidy was determined by flow cytometry of paraffin-embedded tissues. Forty-one of 52 tumors were aneuploid, and 14 had two or more separate aneuploid populations. However, survival was not correlated with ploidy status. The degree of differentiation and stage of the tumors were the only two independently significant prognostic indicators in this study. 
Coronary thrombosis in a patient with May-Hegglin anomaly. May-Hegglin anomaly (MHA) is a rare hereditary condition that is characterized by cytoplasmic inclusions in leukocytes and giant platelets. Many patients have some degree of thrombocytopenia. Most individuals with MHA are asymptomatic, but 25-43% of patients previously reported have had a hemorrhagic tendency. The authors describe a patient with MHA who had no history of hemorrhage but who developed complete coronary thrombosis after attempted angioplasty despite an apparent platelet count of 24,000 per mm3. Laboratory investigations revealed a normal bleeding time, normal platelet aggregation, and an increase in the size of approximately two-thirds of the platelets. The calculated platelet mass was near normal, which probably explains the thrombosis despite a decrease in platelet numbers. The authors conclude that in some patients with MHA platelets are functionally active both in vivo and in vitro. 
Negative regulation of the major histocompatibility complex class I promoter in embryonal carcinoma cells. Transcription of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I genes is negatively regulated in undifferentiated F9 mouse embryonal carcinoma cells via the conserved upstream regulatory region. This region contains constitutive enhancers and an inducible enhancer, the interferon consensus sequence (ICS), that is responsible for interferon-induced transcription. A series of mutations in the ICS, but not in the enhancer elements, resulted in an increase in expression of the MHC class I promoter in F9 cells. However, these ICS mutants did not increase promoter activity in F9 cells differentiated after retinoic acid treatment. Results of mobility-shift DNA-binding assays and methylation interference experiments showed that undifferentiated F9 cells contained a factor(s) that bound to a sequence within the 5' and central part of the ICS. This binding site, termed the MHC negative regulatory element (NRE), coincided with the site of mutations that increased promoter activity in F9 cells and was distinct from the element to which interferon-response factors bind. The factor(s) that binds to the MHC NRE was not detected in differentiated F9 cells treated with retinoic acid or in other cells expressing MHC class I genes. Finally, introduction of concatenated, double-stranded NRE oligomers, but not oligomers of unrelated sequences, into F9 cells abolished negative regulation of the MHC class I promoter activity, providing evidence that the NRE binding factor is responsible for repression of the MHC class I genes in F9 cells. 
Treatment with quinidine gluconate of persons with severe Plasmodium falciparum infection: discontinuation of parenteral quinine from CDC Drug Service. CDC has recently reviewed data on the reported incidence in the United States of Plasmodium falciparum malaria and has evaluated available information on the effective management of severe life-threatening infections. As a result of this review, CDC has concluded that the therapeutic drug of choice in the United States for persons with complicated P. falciparum infection is parenteral quinidine gluconate, and that stocking of parenteral quinine dihydrochloride for emergency distribution is no longer required to provide optimal management of P. falciparum infections. 
Digital artery embolization as a result of fibromuscular dysplasia of the brachial artery. A 74-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with sudden onset of a blue, painful right index finger, and the condition progressed to digital ulceration. The ulcer gradually healed over a period of 2 months. Peripheral pulses, Doppler-derived brachial and radial systolic pressures, and results of an echocardiogram were normal. Digital pulse volume recordings showed obstructive waveforms in all digits of the right hand. Arteriography showed a normal arch and normal innominate, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The midbrachial artery was markedly abnormal and had alternating areas of stenosis and aneurysm formation. Multiple occlusions involved the palmar arch and proper digital arteries. The abnormal brachial artery segment was excised and replaced with an autogenous reversed saphenous-vein conduit. Histologic examination confirmed the lesion to be medial fibromuscular dysplasia. Fibromuscular dysplasia that involves upper extremity arteries is extremely uncommon and rarely presents with digital artery embolization. This case emphasizes the importance of exclusion of proximal reconstructible arterial occlusive disease by means of complete arteriographic examination of patients who were admitted with unilateral finger or hand ischemia. 
A study of the status of clinical cancer research in the United States (1990). This study has confirmed a continuing decrease in the quality and quantity of young physicians entering academic careers in clinical oncology research, defined as cancer research requiring a clinician-patient interaction. Two major contributing factors were identified: the training programs and the research environment. The primary problems for the trainees were the financial insecurity of embarking on an academic career and the poor academic status of their role models in clinical cancer research. The problems regarding the environment of academic oncology and oncology research relate primarily to the strong and widespread perception that grant proposals for clinical oncology research are at a competitive disadvantage with proposals for cancer research in the laboratory. The study results yielded two basic recommendations. The first recommendation is to improve training for clinical cancer research and to implement unique funding mechanisms for trainees. Because physicians devote 3-10 years to clinical training, a minimum of 10 years of clinical research is needed for a clinician to compete effectively as a principal investigator in the R01 and P01 grant areas. The second recommendation is to develop peer review mechanisms that allow clinical research proposals to compete within a pool restricted to proposals in this category. The consensus in the study was that when programs in clinical research and laboratory research are in competition, the clinical proposals have a lower success rate. The problem appears to rest with the fact that the reviewers are frequently from disciplines other than clinical research and, more importantly, that clinical research proposals fare badly in competition against laboratory research proposals even when they are reviewed by appropriate peers. Implementation of this recommendation will require development of a clinical oncology research study section in the Division of Research Grants at the National Institutes of Health to review R01 grant proposals for innovative clinical cancer research, providing an academic environment that would enable the clinical investigator, through increased success in obtaining grants, to be a positive role model for the young physician/scientist. 
Incidental microvesicular steatosis due to valproic acid anticonvulsant therapy. Valproic acid has been implicated in at least 100 cases of fatal acute liver failure. Most cases have occurred in patients less than 10 yr old; however, at least seven have involved adults. Microvesicular steatosis has been uniformly observed, but its incidence in less severe liver disease and in asymptomatic patients receiving valproate is unknown. We report two patients receiving maintenance valproate, one with resolving acute hepatitis C and the other with chronic persistent hepatitis C, with incidental microvesicular steatosis demonstrated on oil-red O stains. We conclude that microvesicular steatosis does not necessarily signify hepatotoxicity in patients on chronic valproic acid, and should not lead to discontinuation of the drug until other causes of acute or chronic liver disease have been excluded. 
Autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a family. A positive family history of autoimmune disease is common among patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, but usually autoimmunity is directed at organs other than the liver. We document for the first time the multiple occurrence of autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a family. Out of a sibship of seven, three sisters developed this, one sister developed coeliac and autoimmune thyroid disease, one sister showed serological signs of autoimmunity, while the two brothers were well with no signs of autoimmunity. HLA typing showed that in association with the female sex DR3 seems to be more important than B8 in conferring susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, at least in this family. 
Immunocytochemical evidence of lymphocytic derivation of neoplastic cells in malignant angioendotheliomatosis. Neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis is a rare disorder usually characterized by primarily cutaneous or neurological symptoms. Approximately 40 cases of malignant angioendotheliomatosis with primary central nervous system (CNS) symptoms have been reported. Some investigators have postulated a hematopoietic origin for this neoplasm. Most of the literature, however, has perpetuated the idea that the often bizarre symptoms seen with this entity result from neoplastic endothelial cell proliferation within the small vessels of affected organs, including the brain and spinal cord. This report describes the immunohistochemical examination and confirmation of the cell of origin of this neoplasm based on five previously unpublished cases of malignant angioendotheliomatosis with primarily CNS symptoms. It includes the first documentation of a T-cell lymphoma presenting as malignant angioendotheliomatosis. All cases include autopsy findings, and in four cases the diagnosis was made postmortem. One case was proven by stereotactic biopsy, but the patient succumbed as a result of severe intracranial bleeding that occurred at the time of biopsy. Tissues were studied with avidin-biotin peroxidase immunohistochemical techniques using a panel of monoclonal antibodies directed against the leukocyte common antigen, LN-1, LN-2, and anti-Factor VIII, and also using Ulex europaeus agglutinin 1. Based on the results obtained, the authors conclude that the proliferative cells seen within the vessel lumina are of lymphocytic origin and agree that the condition should more properly be designated intravascular lymphomatosis. The therapeutic implications of this conclusion point to the possible administration of chemotherapy and radiotherapy in an effort to achieve remissions in an otherwise relentlessly progressive neurological disorder. 
Reduction of high-grade slips (grades III-V) with VSP instrumentation. Report of a series of 41 cases. Records of 41 patients were reviewed for early complications resulting from reduction of high-grade spondylolisthesis. Blood loss averaged 1,427 ml. There were no cases of infection, dural tears, or bladder or bowel dysfunction. Two cases of transient foot drop and one case of permanent foot drop developed. A lumbar plexus stretch palsy occurred in one patient. Long-term results were evaluated in 20 patients followed up 2 or more years after surgery. Three of the 20 did not have interbody fusions and lost their reductions. All 20 patients went on to fuse with no pseudoarthrosis. One case of broken plate and two cases of broken screws occurred. Patient satisfaction ranged from good to excellent. Results suggest that reduction of high-grade slips with interbody fusion is a safe and effective procedure. 
Rabbit ear model of injury-induced arterial smooth muscle cell proliferation. Kinetics, reproducibility, and implications. Recently, considerable interest has focused on the vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) response to injury, particularly as it relates to restenosis after angioplasty. In an effort to find an optimal experimental model of arterial SMC proliferation after injury, we examined the effects of external injury to the central artery of the rabbit ear and assessed the reproducibility, morphological changes, and time course of cellular proliferation after such an injury. With rabbits under general anesthesia, direct pressure was applied at two sites along the central artery of the ears of 19 New Zealand White rabbits. Rabbits were maintained on a diet of 2.4% fat and 0.001% cholesterol throughout the experiment. In seven rabbits examined after 21 days, marked SMC proliferation with neointimal formation was observed at all 28 sites (100%). Mean neointimal area, expressed as a percentage of the area of the tunica media, was 82 +/- 40% (range, 21-203%). Compared with the uninvolved artery displaced 2 mm from the injury site, mechanical crush caused a 38% increase in total vessel area (p less than 0.001), a 40% decrease in luminal area (p less than 0.002), and no change in the area of the media. Serial histological studies were performed 1-42 days after injury, using light and electron microscopy and bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry. Beginning at day 3, activated medial SMCs were noted to migrate through defects in the internal elastic membrane, with a gradual increase in neointimal area between days 5 and 12. Peak DNA synthesis was identified in the media 5 days after injury, with proliferative activity shifting almost exclusively to the neointima thereafter. 
Effect of Iraqi missile war on incidence of acute myocardial infarction and sudden death in Israeli civilians. The Iraqi missile attack on Israel provided a unique opportunity to study the effects of fright due to a perceived threat of annihilation on the incidence of acute myocardial infarction (MI) and sudden death among the civilian population. During the first days of the Gulf war we noted a sharp rise in the incidence of acute MI and sudden death in our area compared with five control periods. Patient population in the various study periods did not differ significantly in age, sex ratio, hospital mortality, or proportion of patients in whom the acute event was the first presentation of coronary disease. However, during the first period of the war there were more cases of anterior wall MI and more patients received thrombolytic therapy than during control periods. Despite the continuing missile threat, the incidence of acute MI reverted to normal after the initial phase of the Gulf war. 
Glucagon and clonidine testing in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. We assessed the sensitivity and specificity of glucagon stimulation and clonidine suppression tests in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma in 113 hypertensive patients, 39 with and 74 without the tumor. In the glucagon stimulation test, blood was sampled 2 minutes after intravenous injection of 0.28 mumol (1 mg) glucagon, and in the clonidine suppression test, blood was sampled 3 hours after administration of oral clonidine, 1.30 mumol (0.3 mg)/70 kg body wt. Baseline levels of catechols in antecubital venous blood were abnormal, with norepinephrine greater than 7.10 nmol/l (1,200 pg/m), epinephrine greater than 1.51 nmol/l (276 pg/ml), norepinephrine/dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) ratio greater than 1.09, or dopa greater than 35.53 nmol/l (7,000 pg/ml), in 30 of 39 patients with pheochromocytoma (sensitivity 77%) and 1 of 74 patients without pheochromocytoma (specificity 99%). Results of the glucagon test were abnormal (norepinephrine greater than 11.83 nmol/l [2,000 pg/ml] or more than threefold increase from baseline) in 25 of 31 patients with pheochromocytoma (sensitivity 81%) and 0 of 72 patients without pheochromocytoma (specificity 100%). Results of the clonidine test were abnormal (after clonidine norepinephrine greater than 2.96 nmol/l [500 pg/ml] or less than 50% decrease from baseline) in 29 of 30 patients with pheochromocytoma (sensitivity 97%) and in 7 of 30 patients without pheochromocytoma (specificity 67%). Very high baseline levels of catechols therefore indicated the presence of pheochromocytoma, but there were several false-negative results when normal levels were obtained. The glucagon test alone was highly specific but not sensitive, and the clonidine test was highly sensitive but less specific. 
Modified skin incisions for mastectomy: the need for plastic surgical input in preoperative planning. Skin-sparing mastectomy by definition describes the procedure of mastectomy, either simple or modified radical, with a minimum amount of skin excision. The surgical skin excision must: (1) include the nipple-areola complex, (2) include the biopsy site, and (3) allow for access to the axilla for possible dissection. In 27 mastectomies, the senior author has had direct input in the preoperative skin planning. All patients underwent immediate breast reconstruction. In large-breasted women, the mastectomy was performed to a Wise-type pattern. In small-breasted women, the mastectomy involved minimal skin excision followed by reconstruction. Non-continuous incisions were frequently used in small-breasted women, thereby minimizing breast scarring. When appropriately applied, skin-sparing mastectomy can greatly improve the final aesthetic result of the breast. 
Renal, hormonal, and hemodynamic effects of low-dose infusion of atrial natriuretic factor in acute myocardial infarction. The effects of low-dose infusion of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF; 3 pmol/kg/min; i.e., 10 ng/kg/min) were investigated in a single-blind, random-order, placebo-controlled study of 12 patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction (MI). Compared with the placebo, ANF induced an increase in urine volume (p less than 0.05), sodium excretion (p less than 0.05), and chloride excretion (p less than 0.05). Urinary potassium and creatinine clearance were unchanged. The maximal response of urinary sodium excretion rate after ANF infusion was positively correlated with the basal sodium excretion rate (r = 0.579; p less than 0.05) and inversely correlated with basal plasma renin activity (r = -0.623; p less than 0.05). Furthermore, the plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) after infusion of ANF was significantly decreased compared with the basal level. The maximal change in PAC was closely correlated with the basal PAC (r = -0.857; p less than 0.01). However, no significant effect on hemodynamic variables was detected with infusion of ANF. Although additional studies are needed to assess the clinical efficacy of ANF infusion in acute MI, our observations suggest that low-dose infusion of the peptide is potentially valuable, as either sole or adjunctive therapy, for the management of water-sodium retention in acute MI. 
Controlled trial of Giardia lamblia: control strategies in day care centers. BACKGROUND: Strategies for control of Giardia lamblia in day care differ in numbers of children treated and in costs to parents and day care operators. The effectiveness of these strategies has not been systematically evaluated. METHODS: We conducted a prospective randomized controlled trial comparing three strategies for control of Giardia in infant-toddler day care centers: Group 1, exclusion and treatment of symptomatic and asymptomatic infected children; Group 2, exclusion and treatment of symptomatic infection only; Group 3, exclusion and treatment of symptomatic infection, treatment of asymptomatic infection in the center. The study included 31 day care centers with 4180 child-months of observation. Giardia prevalence was determined before intervention and 1, 2, 4, and 6 months later; new infants and toddlers were tested on admission. RESULTS: Initial Giardia prevalences were 18% to 22% in the three groups. Giardia was identified in 10.5% of 676 new infants and toddlers entering study day care centers during the 6-month follow-up. Giardia prevalences by intervention group were 8%, 12%, and 7% at 1 month, and 7%, 8%, and 8% at 6 months. CONCLUSIONS: The stricter intervention resulted in greater cost in terms of child day care and parents' work days lost, but did not result in significantly better control of Giardia infections in this day care environment. 
Clinical evaluation of stenosis of the carotid bifurcation with magnetic resonance angiographic techniques. We evaluated the images of 60 carotid artery bifurcations in 31 patients suspected to have carotid artery disease who underwent invasive carotid angiography and combined two-dimensional, phase-sensitive and a gradient-echo magnetic resonance angiography. The phase scans consisted of seven serial projections that were obtained at 20 degrees intervals (11.0 minutes) around the carotid bifurcation; the gradient-echo (GRASS) scans were composed of 11 axial images (2.4 minutes) acquired through the bifurcation. The two magnetic resonance angiographic techniques yielded complementary pieces of information and were used together to compare magnetic resonance angiography with invasive angiography. Comparison of magnetic resonance and invasive angiograms of the 60 carotid arteries shows that the sensitivity (86%) and specificity (92%) of the magnetic resonance angiographic techniques we used to diagnose clinically significant carotid stenosis approach but do not reach those of invasive angiography. 
Fine-needle aspiration in the diagnosis of head and neck growths: is it necessary? The results of fine-needle aspiration cytology performed on 150 patients at the Geneva Clinic of Otolaryngology were analyzed. The accuracy rate was 80%. The study was nondiagnostic in 10% of the cases and falsely negative in another 10%. These results are similar to those in other centers. Nevertheless, several recent reports attest to the accuracy of fine-needle aspirations cytology, and in some clinics it is now part of the initial workup of every patient with a growth in the head and neck. On the basis of our own retrospective analysis, we believe fine-needle aspiration is a useful study only in patients with a previously treated malignancy and who have a new lump in the neck suspected to be a recurrence. 
Ossifying fibroma of the mid-face and paranasal sinuses: diagnostic and therapeutic considerations. Ossifying fibroma is benign, usually slow-growing tumor that may behave in an unpredictably aggressive fashion. Most of these unusual tumors affect the mandible. Their behavior in the mid-face and paranasal sinuses is not well documented. In our review of the subject, and of the cases presented, it appears that these lesions behave more aggressively than their mandibular counterparts. A more aggressive approach may be more beneficial than expectant observation or curettage in the initial management of this neoplasm. 
Nonfunctional mutants of the retinoblastoma protein are characterized by defects in phosphorylation, viral oncoprotein association, and nuclear tethering. We have examined the functional consequences of mutations present in defective alleles of the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene (RB1) isolated from two spontaneously arising tumors. Unlike cDNA clones expressing the wild-type protein p110Rb, those encoding the two mutant proteins failed to induce the appearance of senescent cells in transfected Saos-2 human osteosarcoma cells. The mutant proteins were also defective in binding to the E1A oncoprotein, were unable to become hyperphosphorylated, and failed to become tightly associated with nuclear structures. We conclude that mutations in two distinct regions of the protein concomitantly affect these four aspects of p110Rb function. 
Effects of handrail support on claudication and hemodynamic responses to single-stage and progressive treadmill protocols in peripheral vascular occlusive disease. Because handrail support reduces the energy cost of treadmill walking, claudication and hemodynamic responses of patients with peripheral vascular occlusive disease should also be affected. Furthermore, the reliability of the test results may be reduced unless the same pressure is applied to the handrails over repeated tests. The effect of handrail support on claudication and hemodynamic responses, and on their reliability, were examined during single-stage (2 mph, 12% grade) and progressive (2 mph, 0% grade with 2% increase every 2 minutes) treadmill protocols. Ten patients with stable disease performed both protocols 3 times, separated by 1 week, with and without handrail support. Claudication pain distance and maximal walking distance were greater (p less than 0.05) when handrail support was permitted, and they increased (p less than 0.05) over repeated tests of each protocol. No increase was noted over the tests without support. The responses and reliability of foot transcutaneous oxygen tension, ankle systolic pressure and ankle/brachial systolic pressure index after exercise to maximal tolerable pain were not affected by handrail support. Because claudication distances were altered, it is concluded that handrail support should not be allowed when assessing claudicants, unless balance cannot otherwise be maintained. 
Hepatitis C virus antibodies in acute icteric and chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis. Hepatitis C virus antibodies were measured in 213 patients who had acute (n = 122) and chronic (n = 91) non-A, non-B hepatitis. In acute infection, anti-hepatitis C virus was detected in 61% of IV drug abusers, in 33% of patients with transfusion-associated hepatitis, and in 22% of patients with sporadic infections (P less than 0.0005, drug abusers vs. sporadic). Mean time to seroconversion was 11.6 weeks (range, 1-80 weeks). Anti-hepatitis C virus was more common in chronic infection (P less than 0.001) and was more often detected in IV drug users (89%; P less than 0.0001) and after transfusion (71%; P less than 0.005) compared with chronic sporadic infection (27%). Antibody persisted for up to 8 years. Six chronic case patients (8.3%) later lost antibody (mean, 24 months; range, 12-48 months). 
Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome in morbidly obese patients. Twenty-seven morbidly obese patients (13 men and 14 women) with body mass index greater than or equal to 40 kg m-2 were examined. The mean age of the subjects was 36.9 +/- 8.2 years (range 23-51 years), and the mean BMI was 50.2 +/- 6.2 kg m-2 (range 40.0-62.9 kg m-2). A whole-night sleep recording was made for all patients with signs or symptoms indicative of possible obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS). If the first nocturnal sleep recording was abnormal, it was controlled after 1 year. Eleven (10 men and one woman) of the 27 patients had an oxygen desaturation index (ODI) of 10 h-1. They were symptomatic with excessive daytime sleepiness or other daytime symptoms of OSAS. The occurrence of OSAS in men and women was 76.9 and 7.1%, respectively. Arterial hypertension was associated with OSAS, but not with smoking or the degree of obesity. Antihypertensive treatment was received by nine of the 27 patients; six of them had OSAS. Thus six of the 11 (54.5%) patients with OSAS and three of the 16 (18.8%) nonapnoeic patients were treated for arterial hypertension (Fisher exact test, P = 0.042). The odds ratio of OSAS for arterial hypertension is 5.2 (95% CI, 0.71-43.6). Vertical-banded gastroplasty was performed in 14 patients, three of whom had OSAS. The selection of patients for gastroplasty was made without taking into account the results of sleep recordings. In the three OSAS patients, a 30-38% reduction in BMI was achieved by surgery. Eight patients with OSAS were treated with an intensified dietary regimen, and the reduction in BMI ranged from -2.6 to 33%. OSAS was either cured or significantly improved in six (55%) patients, with a mean reduction in BMI of 27%, while in patients with persistent OSAS the mean reduction in BMI was only 7%. 
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma: modes of presentation. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a common malignancy among the southern Chinese people and has a poor prognosis. The aim of this study was to describe in detail the presentation of NPC as found between 1984 and 1988 at Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong. Our study confirmed that patients present with an advanced stage of malignancy; 70% were stage III to V. Eighty-two percent of patients were between 21 and 60 years of age. The symptoms often suggested benign disease and most patients would delay seeking treatment for at least 5 months. We recommend inspection of the nasopharynx with flexible nasoendoscopy for all persons in high-risk areas on a regular basis and advise a policy of active health education for both physicians and the general population to reduce the stage of NPC at first presentation. 
Intraarterial cisplatin in the management of stage IIB osteosarcoma in the pediatric and adolescent age group. Sixty patients with extremity osteosarcoma were treated with intraarterial cisplatin. This was followed by surgical resection (amputation or limb salvage) and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy utilizing two different protocols. Seventy-five percent of patients achieved an initial response. Overall disease-free survival was 58%. The number of patients treated with limb-salvage surgery gradually increased to the extent that 80% of newly-registered patients achieved a response and were subjected to limb salvage. Disease-free survival was 48% in amputation and 68% in limb salvage. The only factors found to have prognostic significance in determining disease-free survival were extent of tumor destruction induced by preoperative chemotherapy and tumor size. 
Incidence of ovarian cyst formation in women taking ethynodiol diacetate, 1 mg, with ethinyl estradiol, 35 micrograms. A total of 7,759 women were treated with ethynodiol diacetate, 1 mg, with ethinyl estradiol, 35 micrograms (EDA 1 mg with EE 35 micrograms) in a field study involving 983 obstetrician-gynecologists evaluating the incidence of ovarian cyst formation. Six thousand three hundred eighty-two patients were evaluable; 1,377 could not be evaluated because of failure to meet inclusion criteria or inconsistent or incomplete data collection. Cysts were detected in 80 patients at the time of the final visit. Follow-up questionnaires were received on 61% of patients and confirmed the presence of 12 newly formed ovarian cysts in patients taking EDA 1 mg with EE 35 micrograms. Only three women required an operation for ovarian cysts; two women had functional ovarian cysts (one follicular and one luteal), and one had a neoplastic cyst (cystadenoma). Thus, the incidence of ovarian cyst formation requiring surgical intervention was 0.05% in women taking EDA 1 mg with EE 35 micrograms. 
Early experience with mitral valve reconstruction for mitral insufficiency. Mitral valve repair for mitral regurgitation has been reported to have more favorable early and late results than mitral valve replacement. From July 1985 through July 1990, 63 patients have undergone valve repair at Good Samaritan Hospital. Twenty-two men and 41 women whose ages ranged from 34 to 81 years (mean 67.9 years) were treated. Twenty-eight patients were in New York Heart Association functional class III or IV. Twelve (19%) had undergone prior cardiac surgery. Isolated valve repair was performed in 18 patients. Valve repair was combined with coronary artery bypass grafting, other valve procedures, or aneurysm resection in the remainder (71%). Two patients (3%) died while in the hospital, and four deaths (one valve-related) occurred after discharge. Leaflet resection for ruptured chordae was done in 24 patients (38%), chordal shortening in 5 patients (8%), and leaflet transposition in 2 patients. Rigid ring annuloplasty (Carpentier) was performed in 62 patients. Eight patients required mitral valve replacement at the same operation because of unsatisfactory valve repair. Results of valve repair evaluated by echocardiography at discharge show that 48 patients (88%) are free of significant regurgitation. Follow-up to date reveals that all surviving patients who underwent valve repair have clinically improved and are stable. Four of five patients with moderate mitral regurgitation are currently asymptomatic. There have been two valve-related late failures requiring reoperation. Based on this early experience, we conclude that valve repair compared with mitral valve replacement has a low operative mortality with good early results. Continued efforts to preserve native mitral valve function in the presence of mitral regurgitation appear justified. 
CO2 laser-induced pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials in peripheral neuropathies: correlation between electrophysiological and histopathological findings. Pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials (pain SEPs) following CO2 laser stimulation as well as conventional electrically stimulated SEPs (electric SEPs) were examined in 10 patients with peripheral neuropathies in whom the histopathological examination of the sural nerve was done. Results of pain SEPs showed a positive relationship with clinical impairment of pain sensation and densities of small myelinated fibers of the sural nerve. In contrast, results of electric SEPs showed a positive relationship with clinical impairment of deep and tactile sensations and with densities of large myelinated fibers of the sural nerve. Therefore, pain SEPs are considered to be generated by ascending signals mediated through nociceptive receptors and A delta fibers. The pain SEP is only one noninvasive and objective method currently available to investigate a physiological condition of the sensory pathway responsible for pain sense, and is especially useful when combined with the conventional electric SEPs. 
Secretagogue response of azaserine-induced rat pancreatic acinar tumors in vivo. This study investigates digestive and lysosomal enzyme secretion of azaserine-induced pancreatic acinar carcinomas in response to cholecystokinin in rats. After 15-20 months of treatment, 95% of the animals developed pancreatic acinar carcinomas encompassing more than 90% of the tissue. In anesthetized rats basal trypsin output was significantly elevated in the tumor group despite diminished fluid secretion. There was a linear correlation between tumor size and basal amylase and trypsin secretion. Intravenous infusion of cholecystokinin (25 IDU.kg-1.h-1) induced a significantly lower secretion of fluid per gram pancreas, as well as decreased amylase and trypsin output, in the tumor group compared with the control group. Plasma amylase and lipase levels were significantly elevated in the tumor group under both basal and stimulated conditions. The output of the lysosomal enzymes beta-D-glucuronidase and alpha-D-glucosidase was significantly increased in the tumor group under background secretin infusion. Additional cholecystokinin infusion caused a sharp increase in glucuronidase output in this group with only minimal increase in controls. Glucosidase output increased similarly in both groups. Amylase, lipase, and trypsin tumor tissue concentrations were markedly reduced by 85%, 90%, and 87%, respectively. It was concluded that the decreased secretory response of digestive enzymes may result from decreased synthesis, lowered storage capabilities, and/or a decreased/increased responsiveness to cholecystokinin. Increased glucuronidase secretion may reflect an augmented cell turnover of malignant tissue. 
Pattern of simulated snoring is different through mouth and nose. Cineradiography of the pharynx during simulated snoring was done in 6 healthy volunteers, and supraglottic pressure and flow rate were recorded in 12 others. We observed, immediately before snoring, a decrease in the sagittal diameter of the oropharynx followed, during snoring, by high-frequency oscillations of soft palate and pharyngeal walls. The pattern of soft palate oscillations was different while snoring through the nose or mouth. During inspiratory snoring through the nose, the soft palate remained in close contact with the back of the tongue and only the uvula presented high-frequency oscillations. Snoring through the mouth resulted in ample high-frequency oscillations of the whole soft palate. Frequency of airflow and supraglottic pressure oscillations was less (P less than 0.05) during mouth (28.2 +/- 7.5 Hz) than during nasal snoring (77.8 +/- 36.7 Hz). This difference may be related to the smaller oscillating mass (i.e., uvula) during nasal snoring. At variance with our previous data, which showed that snoring during sleep, in both heavy (nonapneic) snorers and obstructive sleep apnea patients, was systematically preceded by flow limitation, this was not true during simulated snoring. 
Pharmacodynamic parameters and toxicity of netilmicin (6 milligrams/kilogram/day) given once daily or in three divided doses to cancer patients with urinary tract infection. The pharmacologic parameters and toxicity of netilmicin (6 mg/kg/day) given once daily (qd) or thrice daily (tid) for the treatment of urinary tract infections were studied in a randomized prospective study of 60 cancer patients. The overall efficacy was 96%. Nephrotoxicity, assessed by the measure of urinary excretion of phospholipids, was lower for the patients receiving the qd regimen than for those receiving the tid regimen. Elevation of serum creatinine (20% over baseline) occurred in one patient receiving the qd regimen and in three receiving the tid regimen. Cochleotoxicity, assessed by pure-tone audiometry (250 to 18,000 Hz) occurred in one patient receiving the qd regimen and none receiving the tid regimen. Concentrations in sera were measured on days 1 and 5. No significant accumulation was observed in either group. Median serum bactericidal titers, expressed as reciprocal values (percentage of the sera with a titer greater than or equal to 8), were measured against 25 test organisms in samples collected 6 h after the administration of netilmicin and were, for the qd group, 16 (82%) against members of the family Enterobacteriaceae and less than 2 (8%) against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and for the tid group, 4 (57%) against members of the Enterobacteriaceae and less than 2 (0%) against P. aeruginosa. The rate of killing in serum was rapid (2 to 3 log in 2 h against P. aeruginosa; 3 to 5 log in 2 h against members of the Enterobacteriaceae) and correlated with the sampling time and hence the concentration in serum of netilmicin. The duration of the postantibiotic effect in serum depended also on the strain and the sampling time of the serum. 
Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase is a peroxisomal enzyme in human fibroblasts and hepatoma cells. The intracellular localization of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (superoxide:superoxide oxidoreductase, EC 1.15.1.1) has been examined by immunofluorescence using four monoclonal anti-Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase antibodies raised against a recombinant human Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase derivative produced and purified from Escherichia coli. Colocalization with catalase, a peroxisomal matrix enzyme, was used to demonstrate the peroxisomal localization of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase in human fibroblasts and hepatoma cells. In the fibroblasts of Zellweger syndrome patients, the enzyme is not transported to the peroxisomal ghosts but, like catalase, remains in the cytoplasm. In addition, immunocryoelectron microscopy of yeast cells expressing human Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase showed that the enzyme is translocated to the peroxisomes. 
Factors affecting the measurement of cholesterol nucleation in human gallbladder and duodenal bile. The study of cholesterol gallstone disease would be facilitated if the nucleation time of cholesterol crystals could be measured in duodenal bile and was correlated with nucleation occurring in vivo. Therefore, our aims were to determine (a) if nucleation time could be measured in duodenal bile, (b) the effect of bacteria, phospholipase, protease, and dilution on the measurement of nucleation time, and (c) the ability of nucleation time of duodenal bile to reflect changes occurring in vivo that promote the formation of gallstones and, therefore, the potential usefulness of nucleation time in predicting and studying the formation of gallstones. Gallbladder bile was obtained from 27 patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy and 19 patients undergoing diagnostic duodenal biliary drainage. Among the 14 bile samples collected by drainage that nucleated within 21 days, mean nucleation time was 6.3 +/- 2.8 days. The addition of inhibitors of phospholipase or protease prolonged nucleation time slightly. Bacteria were cultured from one bile sample at the time of collection and five samples at the time of nucleation. The addition of antibiotics had no effect on nucleation time. Dilution of bile collected at cholecystectomy to the concentration of duodenal bile prolonged nucleation time. In 4 of 5 obese patients receiving a very low calorie diet and predisposed to gallstones, the nucleation time in duodenal bile shortened, and the shortest nucleation times were associated with the formation of cholesterol crystals in vivo. Thus, measurement of nucleation time in duodenal bile may be useful in predicting and studying the formation of cholesterol gallstones. 
Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome of the scalp: histologic and ultrastructural findings. Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome is an association of connective tissue nevi and osteopoikilosis that usually appears in the first decades of life. The nevi occur on the trunk and extremities. In a 48-year-old man with this rare syndrome the connective tissue nevus was located on the scalp and was pruritic. Histologically, involvement of the epidermis with cystic dilatation of the hair follicles and an abnormality of mucopolysaccharides were present. The nevi in this syndrome may involve an alteration in the three components of connective tissue to a variable degree. 
Vascular reactivity after balloon angioplasty in an atherosclerotic rabbit. Alterations in vessel wall reactivity (VR) at or adjacent to the dilation site after balloon angioplasty (BA) may vary according to the inflation protocol and the time after angioplasty and may influence outcome. In 64 atherosclerotic rabbit femoral arteries, we evaluated VR after BA with intravenous ergonovine (ERGO) (40 micrograms/min for 5 minutes) and intra-arterial nitroglycerin (NTG) (2,500 micrograms single bolus) 24-72 hours and 28 days after BA. Comparisons were made with atherosclerotic, nonangioplastied, age-matched controls. BA was standardized to three 1-minute inflations, each 1 minute apart. For each balloon size, 2.5- (appropriate size) or 3.0-mm (oversized) vessels were allocated to either 5 or 10 atm inflation pressure. For the analysis, four groups were compared: Group 1, 3.0/5; group 2, 3.0/10; group 3, 2.5/5, and group 4, 2.5 mm/10 atm. Angiographic diameters were measured at, proximal, and distal to the lesion at baseline, 10 minutes after ERGO, and 5 minutes after NTG. Angiograms were measured with electronic calipers by two blinded observers. All segments of control vessels vasoconstricted to ERGO and vasodilated to NTG (p less than 0.05 versus baseline), indicating a normal response. At 24-72 hours after dilatation, the angioplasty sites for all inflation pressure/balloon size combinations were not responsive to either ERGO or NTG. All segments distal to the dilatation sites vasoconstricted to ERGO and dilated to NTG (p less than 0.05 versus baseline), indicating a normal response. Proximal segments of vessels dilated with a 2.5-mm balloon (appropriate size) responded positively to both stimuli (p less than 0.05). Those vessels dilated with a large balloon (3.0 mm) were nonreactive in the segment proximal to the angioplasty site. Twenty-eight days later angioplasty sites dilated with a 2.5-mm balloon (appropriately sized) regained reactivity; however, segments dilated with a large balloon (3.0 mm) remained unresponsive. All proximal segments, including those from vessels dilated with a large balloon, reacted positively. All distal segments reacted appropriately. Restenosis rates were not different between the over- and appropriately sized balloon groups. These data demonstrate that immediately after angioplasty, vessels lose reactivity at the dilatation site. Those vessels dilated with the smaller-size balloon (2.5 mm) regained reactivity. For large balloons, reactivity is not regained at 28 days. For segments proximal to the site of dilatation, transient loss of reactivity is seen only when a large balloon is used. Thus, acute closure originating at the site of dilatation is not a result of spasm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Flecainide acetate treatment of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: dose-response studies. The Flecainide Supraventricular Tachycardia Study Group. The dose-response relations for efficacy and tolerance of the antiarrhythmic drug flecainide acetate were studied in 28 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (Group 1) and 45 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter (Group 2). Recurrent symptomatic tachycardia was documented with use of transtelephonic electrocardiographic recording. Patients received flecainide in doses of 25, 50, 100 and 150 mg twice daily and placebo for 1 month treatment periods. Among 14 patients in Group 1 who qualified for efficacy analysis, 4 (29%) had no tachycardia while taking placebo. The number with no tachycardia increased with progressively larger flecainide doses; with the 150 mg twice daily dose, 12 (86%) of 14 patients had no tachycardia (p less than 0.01 for overall differences among all treatments). Among 28 patients in Group 2, 2 (7%) had no tachycardia while taking placebo. The number with no tachycardia also increased with progressively larger flecainide doses; with the 150 mg twice daily dose, 17 (61%) of 28 patients had no tachycardia (p less than 0.01 for overall differences among all treatments). Noncardiac adverse experiences were the leading cause of premature study discontinuation during flecainide treatment periods (five patients in Group 1 and six patients in Group 2). 
Cell type-dependent effect of phospholipid and cholesterol on bile salt cytotoxicity. The effect of phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol on bile salt-induced cytotoxicity was investigated. Experiments were performed in both human erythrocytes and cultured CaCo-2 cells, a model system for gastrointestinal epithelium. Hemolysis induced by 50 mmol/L sodium-taurocholate was reduced by both lecithin and cholesterol in a concentration-dependent manner. Cholesterol was 10 times more effective than phosphatidylcholine. Addition of only small amounts of the sterol to phosphatidylcholine/taurocholate solutions eliminated all cytotoxicity. The protective influence of cholesterol is probably mediated through a direct effect on the membrane. Incubation of erythrocytes with a cholesterol/taurocholate mixture greatly increased the cholesterol content of the membrane. With respect to sensitivity to bile salts and the protective effect of lecithin, CaCo-2 cells behaved very similar to erythrocytes. However, cholesterol failed to have any cytoprotective effect when used in combination with taurocholate or phosphatidylcholine/taurocholate solutions. Interestingly, at relatively high concentrations of cholesterol (cholesterol saturation index greater than 1.0), the sterol even increased cytotoxicity. This correlated with a cholesterol-induced shift of phosphatidylcholine from micelles to vesicles, which normally occurs in supersaturated model and human bile. The different sensitivity of the two cell types to the effect of cholesterol on bile salt damage might be caused by the difference in lipid membrane composition. In conclusion, CaCo-2 cells represent a physiologically more relevant model system to study bile cytotoxicity than erythrocytes. When extrapolated to gallbladder epithelial cells, these results could be relevant for the pathogenesis of gallstone disease. The increased cytotoxicity might be the signal by means of which supersaturated bile induces mucin hypersecretion by gallbladder epithelial cells. 
Role of the sarcolemma in triggered propagated contractions in rat cardiac trabeculae. We have recently described that after contractions propagate through multicellular cardiac muscle preparations. These propagating contractions are triggered in damaged regions of rat right ventricular trabeculae during relaxation of electrically stimulated twitches. Propagation of triggered contractions has been attributed to calcium ions that diffuse along the preparation, causing calcium-induced calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum in adjacent cells. In the present study we have investigated a possible role of the sarcolemma and delayed afterdepolarizations (DADs) in the initiation and propagation of triggered propagated contractions (TPCs) in multicellular preparations. We studied whether 1) TPCs are accompanied by delayed sarcolemmal depolarizations, 2) such depolarizations mediate local contraction, and 3) an intact sarcolemma is required for propagation of contractions. TPCs that remained stable for prolonged periods of time could be induced by trains of 15 stimuli (2 Hz, 15-second intervals) at lowered temperature (19-21 degrees C) of the superfusing Krebs-Henseleit medium and a [Ca(2+)]o of 1.0-1.5 mM. Although TPCs could be induced at 38 degrees C and a [Ca2+]o of 3.0-4.0 mM, they disappeared within 10 minutes. Force was measured with a silicon strain gauge; length and shortening of sarcomeres were measured at two sites of the muscle using laser diffraction techniques. Membrane potential was measured with flexible microelectrodes. Saponin was used to selectively render the sarcolemma permeable to small ions and molecules. Propagation velocity of TPCs in intact trabeculae varied from 1.7 to 13.4 mm/sec at 19-21 degrees C. TPCs were accompanied by DADs that could reach threshold and induce triggered arrhythmias. Changes in latency, duration, and force of TPCs, induced by changing [Ca(2+)]o or the number of conditioning stimuli, were closely matched by changes in latency, duration, and amplitude of DADs; DADs consistently preceded TPCs, on average by 60 msec. Local heating of the muscle, by applying a current through an insulated platinum wire (diameter 100 microns) that touched the muscle, interrupted propagation of TPCs reversibly. DADs were, in the absence of a local contraction, still recorded distal to the heated site. In muscles that were treated with saponin and exposed to solutions approximating the intracellular milieu, spontaneously occurring local contractions that propagated in both directions (at velocities of 70-200 microns/sec) were elicited at a bathing calcium concentration of approximately 0.6 microM. Below this threshold, propagated contractions could be triggered by pressure ejection of a calcium-containing solution from a microelectrode positioned close to the trabecula.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Scheduling of revaccination against hepatitis B virus Studies have shown that to maintain protection against infection after a primary course of hepatitis B immunisation, revaccination can be scheduled on the basis of an anti-hepatitis B virus surface antigen (anti-HBs) titre obtained 1 month after the booster dose. However, schemes which require post-booster testing may present practical difficulties. We applied a random-effects regression model to data from 118 Senegalese infants given three injections of hepatitis B vaccine about 6 weeks apart and a booster injection at 13 months, and show that revaccination can be scheduled on the basis of an anti-HBs titre recorded at the time of the booster dose. We also show that titre-at-booster is no less accurate in predicting future titre than 1-month post-booster titre. In several other studies the post-booster decline in anti-HBs conforms to the same mathematical description, indicating the generality of our findings. 
Effect of antireceptor antibodies in dilated cardiomyopathy on the cycling of cardiac beta receptors. A substantial proportion of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy have circulating autoantibodies directed against the cardiac beta-adrenoceptor. These antireceptor antibodies inhibit both ligand binding to membrane beta-receptors and isoproterenol-sensitive adenylate cyclase. The functional consequences of antibody-receptor interactions were further studied by examining their influence on beta-adrenoceptor cycling. Sera from eight patients with cardiomyopathy induced a loss of beta-receptors from the surface of cardiac myocytes consistent with internalization. This loss was inhibited by concanavalin A, suggesting that receptor sequestration preceded internalization but was unaffected by the cytoskeleton inhibitors colchicine and cytochalasin. In cell-free preparations, serum-induced desensitization of beta-receptors was prevented by heparin but not the inhibitor of protein kinase A; this is consistent with a requirement for receptor phosphorylation by the beta-receptor kinase. In contrast to isoproterenol-mediated endocytosis, beta-receptors internalized under the influence of cardiomyopathic sera do not recycle to the plasma membrane. These results indicate that antireceptor antibodies in human dilated cardiomyopathy induced downregulation by interfering at several steps in the cycling of beta-receptors. These effects would contribute to the reported decline in beta-receptor responsiveness in cardiomyopathic myocardium. 
Preliminary results in invasive bladder cancer with transurethral resection, neoadjuvant chemotherapy and combined pelvic irradiation plus cisplatin chemotherapy. Preliminary data are presented of a clinically feasible pilot study to select a significant subgroup of patients among those with muscle-invading bladder tumors for local cure and bladder preservation, while also to offer all patients the possibility of preventing the development of distant metastases. Transurethral debulking surgical resection was combined with neoadjuvant methotrexate, cisplatin and vinblastine chemotherapy plus 2 additional courses of cisplatin and 4,000 cGy. If tumor was found on cystoscopic re-evaluation by biopsy and for cytology after cisplatin and partial irradiation (4,000 cGy.) immediate cystectomy was advised. If tumor was not found consolidation by a radiotherapy boost to a total of 6,480 cGy. plus 1 additional course of cisplatin was given. Of 53 consecutive patients the planned treatment was completed in 42 (79%). With a median followup of 26 months (range 15 to 42 months), 72% of all entered patients were alive, 70% have not required cystectomy and 74% have not had distant metastases. Among the 42 patients who completed the planned protocol chemotherapy dose reductions were required in 39% for stomatitis, bone marrow depression and/or renal dysfunction. There were 2 serious complications but no treatment-related sepsis, deaths or significant renal dysfunction. Eight patients underwent immediate radical cystectomy because of positive biopsy and/or cytology results after 4,000 cGy., while 34 completed full chemotherapy and radiotherapy without any significant bladder or bowel injury. Of 42 patients 22 (52%) have maintained the bladder without any recurrence, and of those selected for full chemotherapy and radiotherapy this number increased to 65%. To date 12 patients have persistent or recurrent bladder tumors: 5 (15%) had invasive tumors treated by cystectomy and 7 (21%) had carcinoma in situ treated by intravesical therapy. The true success of this or other selective bladder-preserving treatments will require 3 to 5 years of followup to be confident that such treatment has sterilized the bladder of cancer. This feasibility study has been clinically practical, modestly well tolerated and encouraging for the significant proportion of patients with a sustained complete response and for the 70% over-all survival rate at 2 years. To evaluate critically the efficacy of methotrexate, cisplatin and vinblastine chemotherapy in the prevention of occult distant micrometastases and in increasing the rate of successful bladder preservation, in May 1988 we began a randomized phase 3 trial with and without neoadjuvant methotrexate, cisplatin and vinblastine chemotherapy. 
The effect of steroid therapy on recovery from tonsillectomy in children. A prospective, randomized, double-blind study to determine the postoperative effects of steroids in tonsillectomy was performed on 25 children from 4 to 12 years of age. A single intravenous dose of dexamethasone or a placebo was administered at onset of surgery. Other preoperative and postoperative medications, including antibiotics, anesthesia, and surgical techniques were standardized as noted in this article. The ability to return to a full or semifull diet occurred on the third and fourth postoperative days, significantly sooner in the steroid-treated patients than in the control patients. By the fifth and sixth days, the control group were eating as well as those children who received steroids. No significant differences were observed in postoperative pain, nausea, emesis, fever, or in the need for postoperative pain medications. This preliminary article concludes that a single preoperative dose of steroid results in an earlier return to a normal (full) diet in children who had undergone tonsillectomy. 
Radical prostatectomy for localized prostatic carcinoma in the renal transplant patient. Three renal transplant patients had prostatic carcinoma after transurethral prostatectomy at 2 weeks, 2 months and 12 years following transplantation. One patient had stage A1 disease, while 2 had stage A2 prostatic carcinoma. All patients underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection. All patients had residual cancer in the radical prostatectomy specimen but none had nodal or capsular involvement. The surgical technique and rationale for management are discussed. 
Angioedema: manifestations and management. Angioedema is characterized by localized swelling of sudden onset affecting the skin and/or mucous membranes. It can be classified into hereditary and acquired forms. Hereditary angioedema is a rare disease inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and caused by a deficiency of C1-esterase inhibitor. Acute attacks are life threatening and cannot be managed by antihistamines, corticosteroids, or adrenergic drugs. Prophylactic therapy is possible with danazol or stanozolol. Acquired angioedema includes nonhereditary C1-esterase inhibitor deficiency; idiopathic, allergic, and drug-induced forms; angioedema associated with lupus erythematosus and hypereosinophilia; and angioedema caused by physical stimuli. Treatment of these forms of angioedema depends on identifying and avoiding the cause, induction of tolerance, or symptomatic treatment with systemic antihistamines. 
Altered inotropic responses in diabetic cardiomyopathy and hypertensive-diabetic cardiomyopathy. To understand the mechanisms of diabetic cardiomyopathy and the consequences of combined hypertension and diabetes, cardiac tissue responses to various inotropic agents were measured in experimental diabetes. Streptozotocin was injected into Wistar rats, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKYs). Six weeks after the injection diabetic rats showed a subsensitivity to beta adrenergic stimulation in ventricular tissue and a supersensitivity and hyper-responsiveness to Ca++ and alpha adrenergic stimulation (except in WKYs) in ventricular tissues and left atria. A supersensitivity to BAY K 8644 in SHR left atria and a hyper-responsiveness to verapamil in ventricular strips were also noted. These alterations may be due to a change in receptor number or to postreceptor alterations. Diabetic SHRs exhibited greater changes in several of the drug responses (responses to isoproterenol, phenylephrine and BAK 8644) were more hyperlipidemic and had a high mortality as compared with Wistar rats and WKY diabetics. These findings confirm that the combination of hypertension and diabetes results in greater cardiac pathology than is seen with either disease alone. 
Isotopic study of the effects of platelets on development of intimal thickening in autologous vein grafts in dogs. The effects of platelets on the development of intimal thickening of arterially transplanted autologous vein grafts was investigated using canine poor run-off models. A new apparatus consisting of a shielding lead block to measure in vivo platelet adherence only on the intima of the vein graft was developed. In 23 dogs, 51Cr-labelled platelets (20 microCi/kg) were injected and isotope emission over the grafts was counted. Platelet adherence was expressed as the thrombocyte accumulation index (TAI), i.e. the ratio of counts over the graft under an abnormal flow condition in the poor run-off model to those over the graft under normal flow conditions of the contralateral leg. The TAI of the total graft (TTAI) was significantly high immediately and on the first and third days after implantation. The TAIs of the proximal (PTAI) and distal (DTAI) portions of the vein graft were also high at these same times. At 7, 10, 14 and 21 days, the TAI was almost equal to 1.0, a time at which endothelial regeneration was complete as confirmed by scanning electron microscopy. Thus, the prominent intimal thickening of arterially transplanted autologous vein grafts in dogs, induced under an abnormal flow condition, correlates well with the enhanced platelet adherence on the intima of the vein grafts in an early period after implantation. 
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma with sarcomatous transformation: an autopsy case. We report an adult case of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma with remarkable sarcomatous changes. At autopsy a yellowish-white tumor (8 x 6 cm) was found in the left hepatic lobe, and there were several daughter nodules in both hepatic lobes. Histologically, most of the main tumor, and all of the daughter nodules examined, showed sarcomatous changes (spindle- or fusiform-shaped and pleomorphic cells). Histologic examination of a whole slice of the main tumor disclosed a focus of adenosquamous carcinoma (cholangiocarcinoma) within the tumor. Frequent transitions between adenosquamous carcinoma areas and sarcomatous areas suggested that sarcomatous transformation occurred in cholangiocarcinoma and then grew to spread rapidly. Immunohistochemically, squamous carcinoma and, to a lesser degree, adenocarcinoma elements were strongly positive for keratin and epithelial membrane antigen, both being also weakly positive in sarcomatous cells, supporting that possibility. Vimentin was positive only in sarcomatous elements. Cholangiocarcinoma should be included in the list of hepatic tumors showing sarcomatous change. 
Extracolonic manifestations of the familial adenomatous polyposis syndromes. The classic prototypes of the gastrointestinal polyposis syndromes are familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome. Extracolonic manifestations have been described in both diseases, and the distinction between them has become less clear. In fact, some authorities have suggested that familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome may represent a spectrum of the same disease. In both conditions, extracolonic expressions are the rule rather than the exception, and familiarity with them is essential for accurate diagnosis and correct patient management. In this pictorial essay, we discuss familial polyposis coli and Gardner syndrome together under the heading familial adenomatous polyposis syndromes. The colonic characteristics of these syndromes will be reviewed briefly, followed by examples of the most common extracolonic manifestations. 
Interleukin-2 toxicity. Because of the ability of interleukin-2 (IL-2) to support the proliferation and activation of numerous types of immunocompetent cells and to support the survival of adoptively transferred lymphocytes, there has been considerable interest in its use in the immunotherapy of malignancies. While studies to date have indicated that IL-2 has activity against some malignancies, considerable toxicity has also been observed. Careful prescreening and selection of patients and appropriate management of toxicity can minimize adverse outcomes. Studies of IL-2 effects have provided intriguing evidence of interactions of the immune/cytokine system with the neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, and other systems. Studies in animal models have demonstrated the central role of an intact immune system in mediating many toxicities of IL-2. Several adverse effects of IL-2 appear to be mediated by other cytokines whose production is induced by IL-2. Studies into the pathogenesis and manifestations of IL-2 toxicity have offered the hope of developing less toxic approaches to IL-2 therapy. Several lessons from the IL-2 experience are likely to be applicable in the clinical development of other cytokines. 
Cognitive neuropsychology. Resolving enigmas about Wernicke's aphasia and other higher cortical disorders. Cognitive neuropsychology is a young branch of neuroscience whose ancestral influences include a rich pool of experimental (eg, cognitive, psychology), theoretical (eg, epistemology), and clinical (eg, neurology, neuropsychology) disciplines. An essential principle of cognitive neuropsychology is that disorders of higher cortical functions can be understood in terms of breakdowns of one or more information-processing modules. Each module is the most basic element of intelligence that can be defined based on current knowledge. This approach is a refinement of-not a fundamental departure from-the 19th-century "localizationist" view of language disorders. Wernicke's aphasia, for example, classical attributed to a single cognitive deficit (loss of word sounds), is shown in this review to require damage to multiple distinct information-processing modules. Cognitive neuropsychology provides the tools for the type of fine-grained analyses of behavior that are needed to capitalize on recent advances in neuroimaging techniques, including the development of more sophisticated models of brain-behavior relationships. 
Reconstruction of the lower lip and chin with the composite radial forearm-palmaris longus free flap. Four cases of total lip and chin reconstruction are presented. In three, the composite radial forearm-palmaris longus free flap was used for reconstruction. In the fourth case, the palmaris longus was separated from the flap but still used as a lower lip sling. In all cases, the entire lower lip and the soft tissue of the chin were reconstructed in one stage. All patients healed primarily, and the three who underwent radiotherapy tolerated it without complications. Lip seal and speech were good, and there was no problem with drooling. Postoperative results emphasize the importance of respecting the aesthetic unit of the lower lip and chin. 
Comparison of an antiinflammatory dose of ibuprofen, an analgesic dose of ibuprofen, and acetaminophen in the treatment of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee BACKGROUND. The optimal short-term, symptomatic therapy for osteoarthritis of the knee has not been fully determined. Accordingly, we compared the efficacy of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, ibuprofen, given in either an antiinflammatory dose (high dose) or an analgesic dose (low dose), with that of acetaminophen, a pure analgesic. METHODS. In a randomized, double-blind trial, 184 patients with chronic knee pain due to osteoarthritis were given either 2400 or 1200 mg of ibuprofen per day or 4000 mg of acetaminophen per day. They were evaluated after a washout period of three to seven days before the beginning of the study, and again after four weeks of treatment. The major measures of outcome included scores on the pain and disability scales of the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (range of possible scores, 0 to 3), scores on the visual-analogue scales for pain at rest and pain while walking, the time needed to walk 50 ft (15 m), and the physician's global assessment of the patient's arthritis. RESULTS. Seventy-eight percent of the patients completed four weeks of therapy. No significant differences were noted among the three treatment groups with respect to failure to complete the trial because of noncompliance or adverse events. All three groups had improvement in all major outcome variables, and the groups did not differ significantly in the magnitude of improvement in most variables. The mean improvement (change) in the scores on the pain scale of the Health Assessment Questionnaire was 0.33 with acetaminophen (95 percent confidence interval, 0.14 to 0.52), 0.30 with the low dose of ibuprofen (95 percent confidence interval, 0.09 to 0.51), and 0.35 with the high dose of ibuprofen (95 percent confidence interval, 0.13 to 0.57). Side effects were minor and similar in all three groups. CONCLUSIONS. In short-term, symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee, the efficacy of acetaminophen was similar to that of ibuprofen, whether the latter was administered in an analgesic or an antiinflammatory dose. 
Lectin staining of neoplastic and normal background colorectal mucosa in nonpolyposis and polyposis patients. A lectin histochemistry approach was adopted for comparative assessment of a colon cancer risk. Binding of Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I (UEA-I), peanut agglutinin (PNA), Griffonia simplicifolia agglutinin-II (GSA-II), and Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA) was investigated in tumor and background tissue from a total of 34 adenoma and 44 cancer patients and compared with reaction patterns in control and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) patients. Adenoma patients with UEA-I positive rectal mucosa were found to have a 33.3 percent familial history of large bowel cancer, which was significantly higher (P less than 0.05) than the respective 4.0 percent figure for patients with negative rectal mucosa. In the cancer patients, an even stronger correlation was noted, with a 63.2 percent UEA-I positive family history association being recorded, as opposed to 4.0 percent in the negative rectal mucosa patients (P less than 0.01). Thus, the results suggest that, apparently, normal rectal background mucosa of individuals genetically at high risk for colon and rectal cancer demonstrates a specific lectin binding ability similar to that of FAP patients and that the simple method using UEA-I staining of rectal biopsy specimens can be of practical use in identification of high-risk colorectal cancer. 
Osmotic diarrhea induced by sugar-free theophylline solution in critically ill patients. It is widely accepted that early enteral nutrition is beneficial to critically ill patients. Diarrhea is a common problem in this setting and is often erroneously ascribed to enteral feedings. More often medications cause the diarrhea. Multiple cases of severe diarrhea associated with the use of a sugar-free theophylline solution (SFTS) were discovered by a nutrition support team. SFTS may induce an osmotic diarrhea because it contains sorbitol. A 55-year-old man admitted for a dissecting aneurysm was started on isotonic formula enteral feedings and within a day of starting SFTS developed severe diarrhea. The sorbitol-induced osmotic diarrhea persisted for 36 of his 83 days of hospitalization with direct cost for the evaluation of this diarrhea being $4,250. His prolonged hospitalization cost $166,200. A retrospective review of 20 consecutive patients receiving SFTS revealed that 15 patients had diarrhea for 2 or more consecutive days compared with 20 patients receiving iv aminophylline, of whom only two patients had diarrhea. Furthermore, SFTS was administered to healthy volunteers and a prominent breath hydrogen response was noted. The polyalcohol sorbitol is used as a sweetner in "sugar-free" products and not quantified on labeling because it is considered an inactive ingredient. Nutritionists should be aware that medicinal solutions can contain enough sorbitol to create a laxative effect which is an easily reversible cause of diarrhea in enterally fed patients. 
Treating the progressive stages of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease affects thousands of Americans, men and women equally and apparently with little regard to race. Its diagnosis depends largely on repeated clinical observations of representative signs, such as resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and gait disturbances. Patients progress through stages: Early disease involves only one limb or side and confers minimal disability, but advanced disease restricts patients to full care. Treatment is chosen on the basis of disease stage and patient response. Combination carbidopa-levodopa (Sinemet) is appropriate for any significant degree of disability, and other antiparkinsonian drugs and anticholinergic agents may be used as adjuncts. Electroconvulsive therapy, use of selegiline hydrochloride (Eldepryl), and surgery are still undergoing investigation but may hold promise. 
Travel medicine and travel clinics. In response to the vast number of American travelers to the developing world, the discipline of Travel Medicine has become an emerging specialty. There are presently no formal Board or other requirements to practice Travel Medicine, but bona fide practitioners of this field, who also usually direct travel clinics, should at the least be well-trained and experienced in tropical medicine and medical aspects of travel, and have had considerable overseas work experience. The concept of travel medicine and the need for travel clinics operated by well-qualified physicians are discussed. The areas of involvement of travel clinics in protecting the health of the traveler are described. 
Quantification of cell kinetic characteristics using flow cytometric measurements of deoxyribonucleic acid and bromodeoxyuridine for bladder cancer. A total of 56 human bladder tumors that were histologically proved to be transitional cell carcinoma was analyzed by simultaneous flow cytometric 2-color measurements of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and bromodeoxyuridine. Bromodeoxyuridine in vitro labeling was performed by sample incubation with bromodeoxyuridine under high atmospheric pressure oxygen. Grade 1 tumors showed 33.3% aneuploidy with a mean bromodeoxyuridine positive stained ratio (labeling index) of 5.1 +/- 3.4%. Grade 2 tumors featured 51.7% aneuploidy with a mean labeling index of 8.9 +/- 7.7%. On the other hand, a markedly increased labeling index of 15.2 +/- 8.2% with aneuploidy was observed in all but 1 grade 3 tumors. When DNA ploidy and labeling indexes were compared according to the presence or absence of muscular invasion of tumors, all 16 muscle invasive tumors showed aneuploidy (mean labeling index 18.7 +/- 8.0%), while 17 of 40 nonmuscle invasive tumors showed aneuploidy (mean labeling index 8.6 +/- 5.4%). This labeling index difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.01). These results indicate that bromodeoxyuridine/DNA 2-color flow cytometry may provide an objective parameter for quantification of the malignant potential of bladder cancers. 
Body surface isopotential mapping of the entire QRST complex in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Correlation with the location of the accessory pathway. Body surface potential maps were recorded during sinus rhythm and during atrial pacing at the time of electrophysiologic studies in 42 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The locations of the accessory pathways were determined by epicardial mapping during surgery in 34 patients and by multicatheter endocavitary electrophysiologic studies in eight additional patients. During delta wave inscription, the shape and extension of areas of the negative and positive potentials on the thorax correlated better with the preexcitation site (69% of patients) than with the localization of the minimum potential alone (45.2% of patients). Typical potential distributions were present from the beginning of the delta wave and remained stationary during the first half of the QRS complex. During marked preexcitation, the superposition of atrial activity on the delta wave produced a mixed pattern in the earliest maps. However, these alterations of early delta thoracic potential distribution did not persist longer than 30 msec. The spread of the negative potentials during the last half of the QRS complex also characterized each localization: right-sided preexcitation reproduced the depolarization sequence of left bundle branch block, left-sided preexcitation reproduced that of right bundle branch block, and posterior pathways resembled left anterior fascicular block. Anterior left ventricular and more anterior left lateral ventricular preexcitations mimicked a right bundle branch block-left posterior fascicular block pattern. There was good correlation between the body surface potential map obtained during the ST segment and the site of the right-sided preexcitation. However, in left-sided preexcitations, ST patterns concordant with delta wave patterns were found less frequently than in right-sided preexcitations. 
Subcapsular hepatic necrosis in liver transplantation: CT appearance. Eleven cases of subcapsular hepatic necrosis were found in 47 hepatic transplantation patients who underwent CT examination between the second and 14th postoperative day. CT examinations of all 11 cases showed nonenhancing hypodense subcapsular areas with irregular contours in the liver. Major vessels were free of obstruction. Anatomic correlation, possible in one case, confirmed the diagnosis. Size disproportion between the graft and the recipient abdominal cavity reduced hepatic blood flow and caused abnormal pressure points. One or both of these factors could result in ischemia in subcapsular areas and explain the subcapsular necrosis. Although it has good prognosis without treatment, subcapsular hepatic necrosis is important to recognize to avoid confusion with liver necrosis after vascular thrombosis. 
Ultrasonography in the diagnosis of gynecologic disorders. Ultrasonographic examination is being used with progressively greater frequency as an aid in diagnosis of gynecologic disorders but too often without consideration of whether information other than that obtained from clinical examination is needed and whether ultrasonography can supply it. The size, number, and position of pelvic masses and, in some instances, the type of tumor can be identified, but it is not often necessary when operation is clearly indicated. Ultrasonographic screening for diseases of the reproductive organs has been proposed, but its use for this purpose is limited and it is not cost-effective. It should be used as an adjunct to clinical diagnosis, not as a primary diagnostic procedure. 
Use of hearing aids by patients with closed mastoid cavity. Twenty-five patients who had undergone a closed-cavity tympanomastoidectomy in our Unit and wore a hearing aid in the operated ear were reviewed, and information was recorded on the use of the aid, and the patients' impression about it. The information obtained was analysed and compared with similar data from 39 hearing aid users of similar age with no history of ear surgery. Eighty per cent of the patients with a closed mastoid cavity were satisfied with the aid, and no significant difference was found between the two groups regarding the impression about the aid (chi square 3.06, p = 0.08), or the problems with it, which, in most of the cases, were related to several changes of mould (chi square 2.19, p = 0.13). The various recorded parameters are discussed, and it is concluded that the patients with a closed mastoid cavity can tolerate a hearing aid in the operated ear at least as well as the control subjects with no ear surgery. 
Physician recommendations for screening mammography: results of a survey using clinical vignettes BACKGROUND. Although experts estimate that 30% of breast cancer deaths could be prevented if women were screened according to published guidelines, fewer than 50% of physicians follow screening mammography guidelines, and fewer than 30% of women are screened with mammography. METHODS. Physician recommendations for screening mammography were examined in a questionnaire mailed to 300 randomly selected physicians of the Ohio Academy of Family Physicians. Physicians responded with their likelihood of recommending screening mammography to 24 clinical vignettes that high-lighted patient, mammographic, and encounter characteristics. RESULTS. Seventy-one percent responded. Ninety-one percent reported almost always recommending screening mammography to a 55-year-old woman at her yearly examination. They were significantly less likely to recommend mammography to women who were young (40 years old), were old (70 years old), were poor, had small breasts, had painful mammograms, did not want the doctor to look for cancer, lived in a nursing home, or were retarded. Physicians recommended mammography less often when the mammography unit was far away or produced poor quality films or ambiguous interpretations. When physicians ran behind schedule, perceived a more urgent medical problem during the encounter, or saw a woman for an acute visit, they recommended mammography significantly less often. CONCLUSIONS. Patient, mammographic, and encounter characteristics significantly limit physician recommendations for screening mammography as assessed by clinical vignettes. These characteristics must be addressed if breast cancer mortality is to be reduced with early screening. 
Regulation of human fetal and adult globin genes in mouse erythroleukemia cells. We have examined whether transfected mouse erythroleukaemia (MEL) cells can be used to examine differential expression of human gamma- and beta-globin genes. These cells, which express only their adult globin genes, will transcribe the human adult beta gene but not the fetal gamma genes when they are introduced on an intact human chromosome 11 by cell fusion. However, MEL cells stably transfected with the human A gamma gene attached to one of the active elements (HS2) of the beta-globin locus control region (LCR) readily produce gamma-globin mRNA in amounts equivalent to those seen with a comparable beta gene insert. When both beta and gamma genes are attached to HS2, equal amounts of beta A gamma mRNAs are produced, irrespective of the gene order. Furthermore, when HS2 is inserted into the 5' end of a 40-kb cosmid containing the G gamma A gamma-117 delta beta genes in their normal chromosomal organization (but with the Greek HPFH -117 A gamma gene mutation), it directs expression of readily detectable amounts of G gamma A gamma and beta-globin mRNAs in MEL cells. Therefore, under these circumstances we have observed no competition between beta and gamma genes for expression in MEL cells. These findings suggest that MEL cells are capable of perpetuating regulatory information involved in developmental control when it is provided by an intact chromosome, but are incapable of reconstructing such information on transfected DNA. 
The biomechanical effects of deep tissue support as related to brow and facelift procedures. The adverse effects of increased tension across a healing wound are well known. However, the effect of closing a wound in layers in order to decrease tension on the epidermis has been a source of controversy. It is hypothesized that deep tissue support decreases skin tension upon wound closure. In order to clarify this issue, a two-part study was designed to address the immediate effects of deep tissue support in vitro using fresh-frozen cadavers and in vivo on patients undergoing scheduled surgery. Closing skin tension was measured at standard reference points in coronal brow lift and rhytidectomy procedures performed with and without galeal closure and superficial musculoaponeurotic system (SMAS) procedures, respectively. Deep tissue support was found to significantly (p less than 0.05) decrease skin tension at the time of skin closure at standard reference points in coronal brow lift and rhytidectomy procedures performed on fresh-frozen cadavers. Similar significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in closing skin tension also were found in vivo in patients undergoing similar surgical procedures. Stress relaxation was not found to play a significant role in contributing to this immediate decrease in closing skin tension. It would appear, therefore, that deep tissue support, in the form of galeal closure and an SMAS procedure in coronal brow lift and rhytidectomy procedures, respectively, provides increased viscoelastic support, producing immediate significant decreases in closing skin tension in these procedures. The beneficial effects on wound healing, scar formation, tension-related trophic skin changes, and possible improved long-term results are discussed. 
Treatment of neuroendocrine carcinomas with combined etoposide and cisplatin. Evidence of major therapeutic activity in the anaplastic variants of these neoplasms. Forty-five patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors were treated with a regimen of etoposide 130 mg/m2/d for 3 days plus cisplatin 45 mg/m2/d on days 2 and 3. Both drugs were given by continuous intravenous infusion. Among 27 patients with well-differentiated carcinoid tumors or islet cell carcinomas, only two partial objective tumor regressions were observed (7%). Among 18 patients prospectively classified as having anaplastic neuroendocrine carcinomas, however, there were nine partial regressions and three complete regressions, an overall regression rate of 67%. For anaplastic disease, the median duration of regression was 8 months (range to 21 months). Tumor response was unrelated to primary site, endocrine hyperfunction, or prior therapy experience. The median survival of all patients with anaplastic tumors was 19 months; this seemed favorable when considering the small experiences with these rare tumors reported in the literature. Toxicity, which was severe for most patients, consisted primarily of vomiting, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, alopecia, and neuropathy. The anaplastic neuroendocrine tumor is strongly responsive to therapy with combined etoposide and cisplatin. Patients with undifferentiated carcinomas, originating in typical neuroendocrine tumor sites (small and large bowel, pancreas, and stomach) or of unknown origin, who have consistent histologic findings by light microscopy should be evaluated for this possibility with appropriate immune staining or electron microscopy. 
MR anatomy and pathology of the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus, the ventral-most portion of the diencephalon, surrounds the anterior inferior portion of the third ventricle (Fig. 1). It functions primarily as an integrative mechanism for various autonomic and neuroendocrine activities including temperature regulation, water balance, behavior, and appetite. This pictorial essay illustrates the value of MR in depicting the normal anatomy and abnormalities of the hypothalamic region. 
Effect of isradipine on 24-h blood pressure profile demonstrated by repeated monitoring. The antihypertensive effect of isradipine was assessed by repeated 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Using an SPS device (Sandoz Pharma, Basel, Switzerland), monitoring was carried out in 10 male patients with mild essential hypertension (1) after a placebo period, (2) after six months, and (3) after 12 to 13 months of treatment with isradipine (average dose 2.5 mg twice daily). Mean 24-h blood pressure decreased significantly after both periods 2 and 3 (from 148/93 mm Hg to 137/87 and 130/85 mm Hg, respectively). The total number of hypertensive systolic and diastolic blood pressure values also decreased. The normal circadian blood pressure curve was preserved, showing the reduction throughout the 24-h period, and the early morning rise in blood pressure was markedly blunted. These results indicate that isradipine has a favorable effect on the 24-h blood pressure profile that persisted throughout six and 12 months of antihypertensive therapy. 
Cause of death in patients attending multiple sclerosis clinics. Between 1972 and 1988, 145 deaths occurred among 3,126 patients attending the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Clinics in Vancouver, British Columbia (N = 1,583), and London, Ontario (N = 1,543). We could determine the exact cause of death in 82.1% of cases (119 of 145). Of the 119 patients for whom the cause of death was known, 56 deaths (47.1%) were directly attributed to complications of MS. Of the remaining 63 deaths, 18 (28.6%) were suicides, 19 (30.2%) were due to malignancy, 13 (20.6%) to an acute myocardial infarction, seven (11.1%) to stroke, and the remainder (9.5%) to miscellaneous causes, of which two may have been suicides. The proportion of suicides among MS deaths was 7.5 times that for the age-matched general population, and the proportion of MS deaths from malignancy was 0.67 times that for the age-matched general population. The proportion of deaths due to malignancy and stroke was the same for the MS patients and the age-matched general population. 
Extubation after transsternal thymectomy for myasthenia gravis: a prospective analysis. Recommendations concerning postoperative extubation after thymectomy for myasthenia gravis are presently based upon retrospective chart reviews. We present the results of a prospective investigation of time to extubation after thymectomy for 14 patients over a 12-month period based upon a protocol that included preoperative immunologic therapy, combined epidural and general anesthesia, postoperative epidural narcotic analgesia, and a standardized approach to discontinuation of ventilatory support. After a neurologist took measures to optimize preoperative neuromuscular function, all 14 patients received agents to produce lumbar epidural anesthesia and light general anesthesia. Muscle relaxants were avoided in all but one patient. Postoperative analgesia was initially maintained with epidural hydromorphone, then therapy was switched to patient-controlled intravenous morphine sulfate. Criteria for weaning from mechanical ventilation, first measured at the end of anesthesia, were partial pressure of oxygen (arterial) greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg (fraction of inspired oxygen = 0.40), partial pressure of carbon dioxide (arterial) less than or equal to 50 mm Hg, pH greater than or equal to 7.30, and respiratory rate less than or equal to 30 breaths/min. If these criteria were not met, ventilatory support was continued postoperatively with intermittent mandatory ventilation, and the patient was weaned gradually from this support. Criteria for extubation included meeting the criteria for weaning, vital capacity greater than or equal to 10 mL/kg, and inspiratory pressure better than -30 cm H2O. Criteria for reintubation included tachypnea (respiratory rate greater than 40 breaths/min), respiratory acidosis not due to narcotics, or vital capacity less than or equal to 8 mL/kg. The mean time to extubation was 9 hours (range, 0.75 to 25 hours). Mean preoperative vital capacity was 2.59 +/- 0.64 L (range, 1.90 to 4.20), which decreased approximately 50% to 1.19 +/- 0.39 L (range, 0.70 to 2.0) at the time of extubation. No patient required reintubation. Half of the patients required postoperative anticholinesterase therapy based upon serial neurologic examinations; there were no instances of cholinergic crisis. Thirteen patients returned to the ward on the first postoperative day, and one on the second day. Thirteen patients preferred epidural analgesia to patient-controlled analgesia. The time to extubation and average length of stay in an intensive care setting were markedly reduced compared to those reported in previous retrospective studies. We conclude that a multidisciplinary approach that optimizes neuromuscular function and decreases poststernotomy pulmonary insult will shorten the time to extubation and decrease the length of stay in the intensive care or recovery room after thymectomy. 
Massive hepatic enlargement with fatty change associated with ketoconazole Several forms of hepatic toxicity have been described with the antifungal agent ketoconazole. We report a case of massive liver enlargement with fatty infiltration presenting as gastric compression. This occurred in a young woman with AIDS taking ketoconazole as maintenance therapy for cryptococcal meningitis. This is the first reported case of ketoconazole causing fatty change in the liver. 
Thalamic atrophy following cerebral infarction in the territory of the middle cerebral artery. We investigated shrinkage of the ipsilateral thalamus following infarction in the territory of the middle cerebral artery in 33 patients who were admitted less than or equal to 2 days after the stroke and who were followed by computed tomography for greater than 1 year with no recurrences. The thalamic area was measured on the computed tomograms, and the ratio of the ipsilateral area to the contralateral area was calculated. All values were compared with values from the initial computed tomogram taken less than or equal to 2 days after the stroke. The values of the ratio on follow-up computed tomograms decreased gradually in 15 patients. In these cases, the area of the ipsilateral thalamus was significantly reduced after 1 year (p less than 0.01) and marked atrophy was observed. These results demonstrate the significance of remote changes over a long period of time after focal cerebral infarction. 
Chronic persistent cough and gastro-oesophageal reflux. Chronic cough persisting for two months or more that remains unexplained after extensive investigations is a common clinical problem. The purpose of this study was to determine whether such cough is associated with otherwise asymptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux. Thirteen patients with chronic persistent cough that was unexplained after a standard diagnostic assessment were identified. All were non-smokers. The mean (SE) duration of cough was 17.8 (8.0) months. Ten had never had reflux symptoms and three had had mild symptoms only after the onset of the cough. All the patients completed standardised cough diary cards for eight weeks and underwent 24 hour ambulatory oesophageal pH monitoring. A reflux episode was defined as a fall in oesophageal pH to below 4.0. Nine control subjects were matched for age, lung function, and body mass index. The patients experienced significantly more episodes of reflux per 24 hours than the controls (115.8 (SE 31.7) versus 4.7 (1.4) and longer reflux episodes (15.5 (5.8) versus 1.7 (0.5) minutes), and the oesophageal pH was below 4.0 considerably longer (84.5 (20.2) versus 3.8 (1.3) minutes). Cough occurred simultaneously with 13% (2.2%) of reflux episodes and within five minutes in another 35% (5.8%) of episodes, whereas gastro-oesophageal reflux occurred simultaneously with 78% (5.5%) of cough episodes and within five minutes in another 12% (2.3%) of episodes. It is concluded that chronic persistent cough that remains unexplained after a standard diagnostic assessment is associated with otherwise asymptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux. It is suggested that a self perpetuating mechanism may exist whereby acid reflux causes cough via a local neuronal oesophageal-tracheo-bronchial reflex, and the cough in turn amplifies reflux via increased transdiaphragmatic pressure or by inducing transient lower oesophageal sphincter relaxation. Further study of this mechanism and the role of specific antireflux treatment in chronic persistent cough is warranted. 
Extradural haematoma after continuous extradural anaesthesia. We report a case of extradural haematoma occurring after extradural anaesthesia in an anticoagulated patient. The diagnosis was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging and the haematoma was evacuated surgically. A search of the literature revealed only five previous reports of extradural haematoma in association with extradural anaesthesia. 
Aseptic meningitis following cardiac transplantation: clinical characteristics and relationship to immunosuppressive regimen. Neurologic disorders are uncommon but alarming complications of cardiac transplantation. Of 29 patients from the Utah Cardiac Transplant Program (UCTP) who had lumbar puncture because of change in neurologic function, or to assess fever of uncertain etiology, CSF pleocytosis was present in 14 patients, 4 of whom had an active infectious process involving the nervous system. In 10 other patients, CSF pleocytosis with negative cultures appeared following treatment with OKT3 monoclonal antibody. The most prominent clinical signs of this aseptic meningitis syndrome are fever and transient cognitive dysfunction. 
GnRH analogue-induced uterine shrinkage enabling a vaginal hysterectomy and repair in large leiomyomatous uteri. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogue was used to reduce large leiomyomas in three young women who were scheduled to have an abdominal hysterectomy and vaginal plastic repair. Significant size decrease due to the hormonal treatment enabled safe vaginal hysterectomy and repair. 
Clinical study of infertile males with varicocele showing no typical radionuclide blood pooling on dynamic image of scrotal scintigraphy. A clinical study was done of 19 patients in our male infertility clinic, who were diagnosed as having a varicocele and showed atypical radionuclide accumulation in the dynamic image of scrotal scintigraphy. The semen quality was good in 26 percent and poor in 42 percent. Patients with severe congestion in the varicocele tended to be small in number. The dynamic images of the varicoceles were classified into two groups: one group with no radionuclide accumulation, and one group with patchy radionuclide accumulations. Surgical treatment was performed in patients with poor semen quality or with a long infertility period. Neither improvement in the semen quality nor impregnation was achieved postoperatively in patients who had shown no accumulation of the radionuclide in the dynamic imaging. In patients who had shown patchy radionuclide accumulations, the postoperative results were good. We concluded that preoperative dynamic imaging of scrotal scintigraphy is a good means of estimating the postoperative prognosis of fertility. 
Central venous air embolism without a catheter. Venous air embolism is a well-recognized complication of central venous catheterization. Although previous reports have documented venous air embolism occurring in a number of ways, including during initial catheterization, when catheters crack or are disconnected, and after catheter removal, no reports mention the possibility of air embolism occurring when a guide wire without a catheter was in place. A patient is presented who displayed signs and symptoms of venous air embolism (tachypnoea, chest pain, and arterial hypoxaemia) during central venous catheter manipulation while a guide wire alone was in place. Pulse oximetry was used to detect hypoxaemia and suggest an aetiology for the patient's clinical symptoms. It is postulated that a previously described gasp reflex or some sort of sustained negative pressure manoeuvre caused venous air embolism around the guide wire and accounted for the patient's signs and symptoms. During central venous catheter placement, a high index of suspicion for venous air embolism should be maintained, pulse oximetry should be used, the skin entrance site should be kept covered by an occlusive dressing, and the patient should be positioned head-down. 
Arm edema in conservatively managed breast cancer: obesity is a major predictive factor To identify risk factors in the development of arm edema (AE) after conservative management of breast cancer, the authors prospectively measured differences in upper and lower arm circumference in 282 patients with stage I or II breast cancer who received radiation. AE was defined as a difference of 2.5 cm or more in either measurement between treated and untreated arms. Median follow-up was 37 months (range, 7-109 months). The crude frequency of AE overall was 19.5% (55 patients). In 21 patients (7.4%) AE was transient; 34 patients (12.1%) had persistent AE, which is the focus of this article. The 5-year actuarial incidence of persistent AE was 16%. The crude risk of persistent severe AE was 3.9%. Various factors were examined for their ability to enable prediction of AE. Treatment-related factors did not significantly enable prediction of AE, whereas factors related to patient size, such as body mass index, were strongly associated with both the frequency and severity of AE. 
Natural killer activity of human liver-derived lymphocytes in various liver diseases. Liver-derived lymphocytes were isolated from 40 human livers with end-stage liver disease that were removed at the time of orthotopic liver transplantation. In addition, 10 resection specimens or whole livers removed from patients with liver cancer and seven normal livers (unused donor organs) were studied as controls. Liver-derived lymphocytes were isolated from enzymatically digested tissue by gradient centrifugation and adherence to plastic. Their phenotypical characteristics were studied by two-color flow cytometry, and effector cell function was determined in 4-hr 51Cr-release assays against a natural killer-sensitive target, K562 (natural killer activity), natural killer-resistant Daudi line (lymphokine-activated killer activity) and by P815 line with or without phytohemagglutinin to assess lectin-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Liver-derived lymphocytes isolated from normal liver contained equal proportions of T and natural killer lymphocytes (mean natural killer/T ratio = 0.7). CD3-CD56+CD16- natural killer cells were the main natural killer subset present in liver-derived lymphocytes, in contrast to the predominant natural killer phenotype in the circulation (CD56+CD16+). Control liver-derived lymphocytes had levels of cytotoxicity significantly greater than those of the normal peripheral-blood lymphocytes against all three targets. In contrast, liver-derived lymphocytes isolated from organs with advanced liver disease differed markedly in the natural killer/T cell ratio and levels of liver-derived lymphocyte cytotoxicity. Liver-derived lymphocytes obtained from hepatocellular carcinoma or rejecting allografts treated by immunosuppressive therapy had virtually no cytotoxicity. 
Serum alpha-L-fucosidase. A more sensitive marker for hepatocellular carcinoma? Forty-nine liver disease patients (7 chronic persistent hepatitis, CPH; 10 chronic active hepatitis, CAH; 13 liver cirrhosis, LC; 9 primary hepatocellular carcinoma, PHC, without LC; and 10 PHC with associated LC) and 20 controls were assessed for their serum alpha-L-fucosidase (ALF) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels and several routine liver injury parameters. Tumor diameter in those with hepatic cancer was assessed by angio-CT. Only ALF and AFP were significantly greater in patients with PHC and PHC + LC patients as compared to patients with LC alone. At an accepted cutoff level of 500 ng/ml, the AFP level provided 43% false negative tests. On the other hand, an ALF level exceeding 740 mumol/hr/ml provided a sensitivity of 84% with a specificity of 94%. No relationship between the ALF level and Child's criteria or with any liver injury parameter was evident. Considering all individual values, the ALF, rather than the AFP, correlated with tumor size. This finding suggests the ALF level may be of value in the early detection of PHC as well as in the follow-up of patients treated for PHC. 
Divided nevus of the eyelid. The two-stage surgical treatment of an adult female patient who presented with a congenital divided nevus of the left upper and lower lid is described. 
A single intravenous infusion of gamma globulin as compared with four infusions in the treatment of acute Kawasaki syndrome BACKGROUND. Treatment of acute Kawasaki syndrome with a four-day course of intravenous gamma globulin, together with aspirin, has been demonstrated to be safe and effective in preventing coronary-artery lesions and reducing systemic inflammation. We hypothesized that therapy with a single, very high dose of gamma globulin would be at least as effective as the standard regimen. METHODS. We conducted a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial involving 549 children with acute Kawasaki syndrome. The children were assigned to receive gamma globulin either as a single infusion of 2 g per kilogram of body weight over 10 hours or as daily infusions of 400 mg per kilogram for four consecutive days. Both treatment groups received aspirin (100 mg per kilogram per day through the 14th day of illness, then 3 to 5 mg per kilogram per day). RESULTS. The relative prevalence of coronary abnormalities, adjusted for age and sex, among patients treated with the four-day regimen, as compared with those treated with the single-infusion regimen, was 1.94 (95 percent confidence limits, 1.01 and 3.71) two weeks after enrollment and 1.84 (95 percent confidence limits, 0.89 and 3.82) seven weeks after enrollment. Children treated with the single-infusion regimen had lower mean temperatures while hospitalized (day 2, P less than 0.001; day 3, P = 0.004), as well as a shorter mean duration of fever (P = 0.028). Furthermore, in the single-infusion group the laboratory indexes of acute inflammation moved more rapidly toward normal, including the adjusted serum albumin level (P = 0.004), alpha 1-antitrypsin level (P = 0.007), and C-reactive protein level (P = 0.017). Lower IgG levels on day 4 were associated with a higher prevalence of coronary lesions (P = 0.005) and with a greater degree of systemic inflammation. The two groups had a similar incidence of adverse effects (including new or worsening congestive heart failure in nine children), which occurred in 2.7 percent of the children overall. All the adverse effects were transient. CONCLUSIONS. In children with acute Kawasaki disease, a single large dose of intravenous gamma globulin is more effective than the conventional regimen of four smaller daily doses and is equally safe. 
Use of botulinum toxin in strabismus after retinal detachment surgery. Botulinum toxin was used to treat 20 patients with strabismus after retinal detachment surgery. Preinjection motility deviations ranged from 10 to 60 prism diopters (D). Postinjection deviations ranged from 0 to 20 prism D, with 75% being 10 D or less. Eighty-five percent achieved fusion that persisted, with 73% requiring only one or two injections. Only muscles in the eye that had undergone retinal reattachment surgery were injected. The average period of follow-up was 12 months. Complications were rare and all resolved spontaneously. Botulinum toxin appears to be useful as a primary treatment modality for persistent strabismus following retinal detachment surgery, possibly obviating the need for complicated strabismus surgery. 
Gastric ulcer healing: a comparison of enprostil versus ranitidine. Enprostil is a synthetic prostaglandin E2 analogue with gastric antisecretory and mucosal protective properties. We compared the effects of enprostil and ranitidine on the healing of gastric ulcers and the subsequent relapse rates over 6 months. Patients (N = 156) were recruited for a double-blind study from 12 centers in Europe; 71 were randomly assigned to oral treatment with 35 micrograms enprostil twice daily and 85 to 150 mg ranitidine twice daily for up to 8 weeks. Both groups were of similar demography; their healing rates were also similar. Cumulative intent-to-treat healing rates were at 4 weeks enprostil 48%, ranitidine 41%: at 6 weeks enprostil 65%, ranitidine 68%; and at 8 weeks enprostil 72%, ranitidine 80%. Of those patients who met all protocol criteria and completed treatment, and were endoscoped at the prescribed times, healing rates were at 4 weeks enprostil 55%, ranitidine 54%, at 6 weeks enprostil 75%, ranitidine 84%; and at 8 weeks enprostil 80%, ranitidine 90%. Relief of pain was rapid and similar in both groups. The incidence of adverse events was low and similar in the two groups. The treatment-free relapse rate at 6 months was enprostil 64%, ranitidine 49%; the median times to relapse were 169 and 203 days, respectively. Enprostil and ranitidine appear to be equally effective in healing gastric ulcers. 
Limitations of open-chest cardiac massage after prolonged, untreated cardiac arrest in dogs. STUDY OBJECTIVES: Open-chest cardiac massage is an effective method of resuscitation if instituted within 15 minutes of normothermic cardiac arrest that has failed to respond to ongoing closed-chest CPR efforts. The usefulness of invasive forms of CPR after various periods of untreated cardiac arrest is less certain. This study was performed to determine the effectiveness of open-chest resuscitation after prolonged periods of untreated cardiac arrest. SETTING AND DESIGN: Prospective, controlled laboratory investigation using an animal model of cardiac arrest. Open-chest cardiac massage initially was compared to standard closed-chest compression CPR. The efficacy of open-chest CPR then was evaluated after ten and 40 minutes of untreated ventricular fibrillation. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Twenty mongrel dogs (24 +/- 1 kg). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After 20 minutes of untreated ventricular fibrillation, open-chest resuscitation was significantly better than closed-chest efforts for the production of coronary perfusion pressure (58 +/- 14 vs 2 +/- 1 mm Hg; P less than .05) and initial resuscitation success (five of five vs one of five; P less than .03). Open-chest cardiac massage was equally effective for initial resuscitation if begun after ten or 20 minutes of untreated ventricular fibrillation (five of five vs five of five), but if untreated ventricular fibrillation continued for 40 minutes prior to instituting open-chest massage, no resuscitation benefit was found (none of five; P less than .005). There were marked differences in 24-hour survival depending on the length of time untreated cardiac arrest continued prior to instituting open-chest resuscitation efforts. After 20 minutes of ventricular fibrillation, initial resuscitation was successful with open-chest massage, but long-term survival was poor. CONCLUSION: Open-chest cardiac massage did not produce long-term survival if untreated cardiac arrest persisted for 20 or more minutes prior to invasive resuscitation efforts. 
The impact of colonoscopy on colorectal carcinoma. In an eight-year, ongoing study of 120 patients, 39 with carcinomas and 81 with adenomas, no patient has produced a new carcinoma despite a high incidence of metachronous adenomas. Colonoscopy can identify early carcinomas that can be resected for cure. In addition, colonoscopy can identify the adenomatous polyps and with polypectectomy prevent the progression to carcinoma. Colonoscopy is more accurate than air contrast barium enema, provides a tissue diagnosis, and allows polypectomy. When applied according to risk factors known to be cost effective, colonoscopy leads to earlier diagnosis and thus improved long-term survival. 
The influence of exercise-induced temperature elevations on the auditory brain-stem response (ABR). The influence of exercise on the auditory brain-stem response (ABR) was examined in 16 healthy volunteers (8 female and 8 male). Ipsilateral ABR recordings were obtained before and after exercise on a bicycle ergonometer. The rise of body temperature so generated was 0.5-2.1 degrees C (mean, 1.3 degrees C) as measured in the contralateral external auditory meatus. Latencies of waves III and V (but not wave I) were found to be significantly lower immediately post-exercise (P less than 0.01). The temperature relations of the latency of wave V are described by the regression equation: Latency (ms) = 11.06-0.146 x temp. (degrees C). (The effects on amplitude were not significant, nor were male/female differences.) It is suggested that exercise hyperthermia could be an appropriate model for the evaluation of the ABR in fever. 
Vagal stimulation and prevention of sudden death in conscious dogs with a healed myocardial infarction. The interest for the antifibrillatory effect of vagal stimulation has been largely limited by the fact that this concept seemed restricted to acute experiments in anesthetized animals. To explore the potentially protective role of vagal stimulation in conscious animals we developed a chronically implantable device to be placed around the cervical right vagus. An anterior myocardial infarction was produced in 161 dogs; 1 month later an exercise stress test was performed on the 105 survivors. Toward the end of the test the circumflex coronary artery was occluded for 2 minutes. Fifty-nine (56%) dogs developed ventricular fibrillation and, before this test was repeated, were assigned either to a control group (n = 24) or to be instrumented with the vagal device (n = 35). Five dogs were excluded because of electrode malfunction. Compared with the heart rate level attained after 30 seconds of occlusion during exercise in the control test, vagal stimulation led to a decrease of approximately 75 beats/min (from 255 +/- 33 to 170 +/- 36 beats/min, p less than 0.001). In the control group 22 (92%) of 24 dogs developed ventricular fibrillation during the second exercise and ischemia test. By contrast, during vagal stimulation ventricular fibrillation occurred in only 3 (10%) of the 30 dogs tested and recurred in 26 (87%) during an additional exercise and ischemia test in the control condition (p less than 0.001 versus the vagal stimulation test; internal control analysis). Combined analysis of the tests performed in the control condition showed that ventricular fibrillation was reproducible in 48 (89%) of the 54 dogs tested. The protective effect of vagal stimulation was also significant in the group comparison analysis and even after exclusion of those four dogs in which ventricular fibrillation was not reproducible (92% versus 11.5%, control versus vagal stimulation, p less than 0.001). When heart rate was kept constant by atrial pacing, the vagally mediated protection was still significant (p = 0.015) as five (55%) of nine dogs survived the test. This study shows that vagal stimulation, performed shortly after the onset of an acute ischemic episode in conscious animals with a healed myocardial infarction, can effectively prevent ventricular fibrillation. This striking result seems to depend on multiple mechanisms having a synergistic action. The decrease in heart rate is an important but not always essential protective mechanism. The electrophysiological effects secondary to the vagally mediated antagonism of the sympathetic activity on the heart are likely to play a major role. 
Analysis of beta, gamma, and delta T-cell receptor genes in mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome. The authors have analyzed the configuration of immunoglobulin (Ig) and beta, gamma and delta T-cell receptor (TCR) genes in DNA extracted from skin, lymph nodes, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from 41 patients with mycosis fungoides (MF), 14 patients with Sezary syndrome, and 13 patients with benign inflammatory dermatoses. No discrete rearranged bands (DRB) were detected in patients with inflammatory dermatoses. In tissue DNA from 19 patients with MF DRB were detected with beta and gamma, but not delta TCR probes. Only one patient with MF had a rearrangement of gamma and delta with germ line beta TCR genes. In 13 patients multiple biopsies were analyzed and DRB, when present, were identical in different lesions from individual patients. In three patients analysis of DNA from dermatopathic lymph nodes did not reveal DRB. Analysis of peripheral blood DNA from 24 patients revealed a discrete rearrangement of the gamma TCR gene in four patients and both beta and gamma genes in four additional patients. In MF DRB were detected more frequently with advancing stage of disease in tissues (P less than 0.01) but not in peripheral blood (P equals 0.36). Of 14 patients with Sezary syndrome, eight had DRB in peripheral blood DNA with both beta and gamma probes and in three of these patients identical DRB were also detected in DNA from skin biopsy samples. In contrast, DRB were not detected in the peripheral blood of the other six patients. In both MF and Sezary syndrome there was no restricted usage of particular V gamma genes. These results indicate that in MF (1) T-cell clones can be detected in skin biopsy specimens from the majority of patients with early stage disease, (2) gamma delta T-cell clones are only rarely found, and (3) TCR gene analysis can detect T-cell clones in the peripheral blood with a greater degree of specificity than conventional light microscopic study. In Sezary syndrome these studies also suggest that a subset of patients have a polyclonal population of circulating atypical lymphoid cells. In addition these patients appear to have a better prognosis than those with monoclonal disease. 
Soft tissue Ewing's sarcoma. Characterization in established cultures and xenografts with evidence of a neuroectodermic phenotype. This study characterizes the histogenesis of soft tissue Ewing's sarcoma (StEs) based upon an analysis of three tumors. Long-term cultured cell lines and nude mice xenografts were established from original neoplasms or from their metastases. Histologically they revealed a small round cell pattern without signs of differentiation. Several ultrastructural features of neural type were found; the same were also seen on culture cell lines. Moreover, immunohistochemical study for neural markers revealed the presence of HNK-1, NSE, LIRC-LON 36, S-100 protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, neurofilaments (70 kilodaltons), and chromogranin; some of these markers were present only in the transplants. Cytokeratin was also seen. The translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12) was found in all three neoplasms together with other chromosomal abnormalities. N-myc RNA gave negative results whereas c-myc RNA was expressed. Therefore it may be postulated that StEs displays neuroectodermal features somewhat similar to those seen in peripheral neuroepithelioma as well as in atypical Ewing's sarcoma of bone. 
Concurrent nitroglycerin administration decreases thrombolytic potential of tissue-type plasminogen activator. Dynamic coronary vasoconstriction may play a role in coronary artery reocclusion after successful thrombolysis. The effect of nitroglycerin on the thrombolytic effects of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was examined in dogs with an electrically induced occlusive coronary artery thrombus. Eleven dogs were randomly given rt-PA alone and seven rt-PA with nitroglycerin. The dose of rt-PA was 0.75 mg/kg body weight given over 20 min and the dose of nitroglycerin was 125 micrograms/min for 40 min. The reperfusion rate in the dogs given rt-PA alone was 73% (8 of 11 dogs) and that in the rt-PA plus nitroglycerin group was 57% (four of seven dogs) (p = NS). The time to thrombolysis (or reperfusion) in dogs receiving rt-PA plus nitroglycerin was 70% greater than in those receiving rt-PA alone (means +/- SD/29.8 +/- 9.9 versus 17.6 +/- 5.9 min, p less than 0.02), and the duration of reperfusion much shorter (11 +/- 17 versus 42 +/- 16 min, p less than 0.02). Peak coronary blood flow after reperfusion in dogs receiving rt-PA plus nitroglycerin was also less than in those receiving rt-PA alone (36 +/- 52 versus 63 +/- 20 ml/min, p less than 0.02). Reocclusion occurred in all dogs given rt-PA with nitroglycerin and in six of eight given rt-PA alone (p = NS). Plasma concentrations of rt-PA were lower when nitroglycerin was given with rt-PA alone (427 +/- 279 versus 1,471 +/- 600 ng/ml, p less than 0.01). 
Helicobacter pylori-negative duodenal ulcer. PURPOSE PATIENTS AND METHODS: Helicobacter pylori (HP) is present in more than 90% of duodenal ulcers (DUs). To investigate the pathophysiology in those patients with DU who are HP-negative compared with those who are HP-positive, we interviewed consecutive patients prior to endoscopy regarding factors often associated with ulcer disease. At esophagogastroduodenoscopy, antral biopsy specimens were obtained for urease test, culture, and Warthin Starry staining for HP in all patients with DU who did not have active bleeding. RESULTS: Compared with HP-positive patients who had DU, HP-negative patients with DU were more likely to be aspirin users and less likely to have had prior ulcers. HP-positive patients with DU had more severe antral inflammation than HP-negative patients. Whites were more likely to be HP-negative than blacks. HP-negative patients with DU most commonly presented with bleeding, whereas HP-positive patients with DU presented with pain. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest a different mechanism for DUs in patients who are HP-positive versus those who are HP-negative, and this difference might have a bearing on treatment. The absence of HP should lead to a more thorough search for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug/aspirin use, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, and other potential causes of DUs. 
Prevention of restenosis by lovastatin after successful coronary angioplasty. Prevention of restenosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) remains a major challenge. To determine whether lovastatin could prevent restenosis, between December 1987 and July 1988, a total of 157 patients undergoing successful PTCA were randomly and prospectively assigned to the lovastatin group or a control group. Seventy-nine patients received lovastatin (20 mg daily if the serum cholesterol level was less than 300 mg/dl and 40 mg daily if the serum cholesterol level was greater than or equal to 300 mg/dl) in addition to conventional therapy (lovastatin group). Seventy-eight patients received conventional therapy alone (control group). Fifty patients in the lovastatin group and 29 in the control group were evaluated with coronary angiography at an interval of 2 to 10 months (mean 4 months). The restenosis rate was evaluated according to the number of patients showing restenosis, the number of vessels restenosed, and the number of PTCA sites restenosed. Restenosis was defined as the presence of greater than 50% stenosis of the PTCA site. In the lovastatin group 6 of 50 patients (12%) had restenosis compared with 13 of 29 patients (44.4%) in the control group (p less than 0.001). When the number of vessels restenosed was considered, only 9 of 72 vessels (12.5%) restenosed in the lovastatin group compared with 13 of 34 vessels (38.2%) in the control group (p less than 0.002). Similarly, 10 of 80 (12.5%) PTCA sites restenosed in the lovastatin group compared with 15 of 36 (41.7%) in the control group (p less than 0.001). 
Hemorrhagic events during therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator, heparin, and aspirin for acute myocardial infarction. Results of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI), Phase II Trial. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of invasive procedures, hemostatic and clinical variables, the timing of beta-blocker therapy, and the doses of recombinant plasminogen activator (rt-PA) on hemorrhagic events. DESIGN: A multicenter, randomized, controlled trial. SETTING: Hospitals participating in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II trial (TIMI II). INTERVENTIONS: Patients received rt-PA, heparin, and aspirin. The total dose of rt-PA was 150 mg for the first 520 patients and 100 mg for the remaining 2819 patients. Patients were randomly assigned to an invasive strategy (coronary arteriography with percutaneous angioplasty [if feasible] done routinely 18 to 48 hours after the start of thrombolytic therapy) or to a conservative strategy (coronary arteriography done for recurrent spontaneous or exercise-induced ischemia). Eligible patients were also randomly assigned to either immediate intravenous or deferred beta-blocker therapy. MEASUREMENTS: Patients were monitored for hemorrhagic events during hospitalization. MAIN RESULTS: In patients on the 100-mg rt-PA regimen, major and minor hemorrhagic events were more common among those assigned to the invasive than among those assigned to the conservative strategy (18.5% versus 12.8%, P less than 0.001). Major or minor hemorrhagic events were associated with the extent of fibrinogen breakdown, peak rt-PA levels, thrombocytopenia, prolongation of the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) to more than 90 seconds, weight of 70 kg or less, female gender, and physical signs of cardiac decompensation. Immediate intravenous beta-blocker therapy had no important effect on hemorrhagic events when compared with delayed beta-blocker therapy. Intracranial hemorrhages were more frequent among patients treated with the 150-mg rt-PA dose than with the 100-mg rt-PA dose (2.1% versus 0.5%, P less than 0.001). The extent of the plasmin-mediated hemostatic defect was also greater in patients receiving the 150-mg dose. CONCLUSIONS: Increased morbidity due to hemorrhagic complications is associated with an invasive management strategy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Our findings show the complex interaction of several factors in the occurrence of hemorrhagic events during thrombolytic therapy. 
Morphine pharmacokinetics and pain assessment after intracerebroventricular administration in patients with terminal cancer. Morphine pharmacokinetics and pain relief were evaluated after intracerebroventricular administration of morphine (0.4 +/- 0.11 mg) in seven patients with cancer suffering from intractable pain. Ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), lumbar CSF, and plasma morphine concentrations were analyzed by a specific morphine radioimmunoassay. A two-compartment model was sufficient to describe the kinetics of morphine in ventricular CSF. Morphine diffuses to the lumbar level, and the mean maximum concentration was 192 +/- 105 ng/ml at 4.5 +/- 1.3 hours. Ventricular and lumbar CSF morphine kinetics showed a similar decline during the elimination phase, with terminal half-lives of 3.8 +/- 0.6 hours and 4.2 +/- 1.6 hours, respectively. Pain relief was evaluated by a visual analog scale: the test showed a rapid onset of analgesia (less than 10 minutes). Analgesic effectiveness reached a maximum between 6 and 10 hours. The relationship between pharmacologic effect and morphine concentrations in ventricular CSF resulted in an anticlockwise hysteresis curve. The presence of morphine in lumbar CSF suggested an additive spinal action of morphine, which probably plays a role in the duration of analgesia. 
Intraoperative monitoring of facial nerve function in cerebellopontine angle surgery. Facial nerve paralysis associated with cerebellopontine angle surgery has been reported to range up to 26% in a recent series. Various methods of intraoperatively monitoring the facial nerve have been developed to reduce the incidence of facial paralysis. We report our experience with an intraoperative monitoring technique using intramuscular EMG electrodes to detect subclinical electrical responses that were amplified and made audible to the operating surgeon after gating stimulus artifacts. A 3.6% incidence of facial paralysis in 111 consecutive cases with this intraoperative monitoring method compared with 14.5% in 207 previously unmonitored cases indicates significant reduction of this complication in cerebellopontine angle surgery (p less than 0.001). Along with this reduction in facial paralysis, an increase in the percentage of partial facial paresis was observed in the monitored group (p less than 0.05). The percentage of those with intact facial function was similar in the monitored (82.0%) and unmonitored groups (78.3%). 
Transient pulsus alternans induced by isosorbide dinitrate: echocardiographic and hemodynamic evidence of reduced venous return--a case report. Transient pulsus alternans was induced by isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) in a patient with postmyocarditis congestive heart failure under diuretic therapy. The severity and duration of pulsus alternans depended on the dose of ISDN. According to the echocardiographic and hemodynamic examinations, the superimposed preload reduction caused by ISDN combined with decreased blood volume owing to diuretic therapy most likely contributed to the development of pulsus alternans. 
Meningitis from canine Pasteurella multocida following mastoidectomy. A case of Pasteurella multocida meningitis, following a mastoidectomy is presented. The association of close contact with pets, many of which harbour Pasteurella multocida as part of their normal buccal flora. This case confirms the potential benefit of taking an ear swab prior to mastoid surgery and in seeking an appropriate 'pet' history. 
Common reactions to transfusions. A blood transfusion is a special kind of transplantation, with the transfer of living tissue from one person to another. Reactions can occur with as little as 10 to 15 ml of incompatible blood. The onset of a reaction may be misleading or delayed, and its detection requires astute assessment. Responsibility for recognition of a transfusion reaction lies with the transfusionist, who is often a nurse. The following types of response can occur: hemolytic reactions, transfusion-induced graft-versus-host disease, hemoglobinuria, purpura, fever, circulatory overload, thrombophlebitis, urticaria, hyperkalemia, asymptomatic hemoglobinuria, pulmonary edema, and allergic and anaphylactic reactions. Critical care nurses need to be aware of the dangers of blood and blood product transfusions and to be prepared to react quickly. 
Presentation of acute uterine inversion in the emergency department. A case of acute puerperal uterine inversion is described in a patient who presented to the emergency department after a home birth and a prolonged third stage of labor. The cardinal findings were shock and excessive blood loss. The uterus and attached placenta were protruding from the vagina and the normal cervical landmarks were absent. Emergency management consisted in vigorous fluid resuscitation prior to transfer to the operating room for definitive reversion. 
Gastric carcinoma presenting as an exacerbation of ulcers during pregnancy. A case report. Gastric cancer is unusual during pregnancy. Also, because of the physiologic changes that occur with pregnancy, it is rare to see a worsening of peptic ulcers during pregnancy. A patient with an exacerbation of peptic ulcers presented with gastric carcinoma during pregnancy. 
Obliterations of the proximal subclavian artery: to bypass or to anastomose? A clinical series has been analysed to determine which of two similar, extrathoracic "extraanatomic" methods of treating proximal blocks of the subclavian artery is the superior option. From 1975 until 1988 direct carotid-subclavian anastomosis was used in 32 patients and carotid-subclavian bypass in 19. There were no statistically significant differences for the probability of postoperative survival (p less than 0.877 Breslow; p less than 0.774 Mantel), intraoperative blood loss or the duration of anaesthesia. Those patients who had undergone subclavian artery repair had a significantly longer survival than those following carotid bifurcation endarterectomy (p less than 0.002 Breslow, p less than 0.0002 Mantel). As patients with subclavian lesions have a reasonable life-expectancy, they may possibly experience late complications of their vascular repair. Therefore it seems important to select the most durable operation, and direct carotid subclavian anastomosis has a significantly greater patency rate than bypass (p less than 0.006 Breslow, p less than 0.006 Mantel). Patients with preoperative symptoms of cerebrovascular insufficiency had a lower probability of survival than those with upper extremity claudication, although this did not reach statistical significance (p less than 0.205 Breslow; p less than 0.198 Mantel). 
Practical approach to the diagnosis of unexplained chest pain. Chest pain is a frequent medical problem causing concern for both patients and physicians. A multidisciplinary meeting recently developed algorithms for evaluating these patients in the two most common scenarios for the presentation of chest pain: (1) new onset of chest pain in the primary care setting, and (2) recurrent chest pain in the the referral setting. In both situations, the primary care physician, rather than specialists, should direct the evaluation and treatment of patients with chest pain and normal coronary angiograms. 
Differential susceptibility of activated macrophage cytotoxic effector reactions to the suppressive effects of transforming growth factor-beta 1. We examined the effects of TGF-beta 1 on induction of several activated macrophage antimicrobial activities against the protozoan parasite Leishmania, and on induction of tumoricidal activity against the fibrosarcoma tumor target 1023. TGF-beta by itself did not affect the viability of either the intracellular or extracellular target in concentrations up to 200 ng/ml. As little as 1 ng/ml TGF-beta, however, suppressed more than 70% of the intracellular killing activity of macrophages treated with lymphokines. In contrast, more than 100 ng/ml TGF-beta was required to suppress intracellular killing by cells activated with an equivalent amount of recombinant IFN-gamma. Addition of TGF-beta for up to 30 min after exposure to activation factors significantly reduced macrophage killing of intracellular parasites. Pretreatment of macrophages with TGF-beta was even more effective: treatment of cells with TGF-beta for 4 h before addition of activation factors abolished all macrophage intracellular killing activity. Regardless of treatment sequence, however, TGF-beta had absolutely no effect, at any concentration tested, on activated macrophage resistance to infection induced by lymphokines or by the cooperative interaction of IFN-gamma and IL-4. Effects of TGF-beta on tumoricidal activity of activated macrophages was intermediate to that of its effects on intracellular killing or resistance to infection. Lymphokine-induced tumor cytotoxicity was marginally (25%) affected by TGF-beta; 200 ng/ml was able to suppress IFN-gamma-induced tumoricidal activity by 40%. Thus, TGF-beta dramatically suppressed certain activated macrophage cytotoxic effector reactions, but was only partially or not at all effective against others, even when the same activation agent (IFN-gamma) was used. The biochemical target for TGF-beta suppressive activity in these reactions may be the pathway for nitric oxide production from L-arginine, because TGF-beta also inhibited the generation of nitric oxide by cytokine-activated macrophages. 
Gastrointestinal cytology. Since the development of the fiberoptic endoscope, laboratories have received cytologic specimens obtained from all segments of the gastrointestinal tract in increasing numbers to identify infectious agents and neoplasms. Adenocarcinomas generally are easily diagnosed and distinguished from reparative atypia, but their precursor lesions, dysplasia and adenomas, provide greater interpretive challenges. The same is true for such entities as malignant lymphomas. Most mesenchymal tumors remain outside the diagnostic capabilities of most cytologists. 
Central nervous system toxicity from nebulized atropine sulfate. Central anticholinergic intoxication can result from iatrogenic sources. We report the occurrence of a central anticholinergic syndrome in a patient treated with aerosolized atropine. 
Noninvasive grading of musculoskeletal tumors using PET. Twenty-five patients with mass lesions involving the musculoskeletal system were studied with positron emission tomography (PET) in order to determine if a relationship exists between histologic grade and tumor uptake of [fluorine-18]2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG). There were 6 benign lesions and 19 malignant lesions of various grades. A high correlation (Rho = 0.83) was found between the normalized uptake of tracer and the NCl grade. The high-grade malignancies had significantly greater (p = 0.0091) uptake of FDG than the combination of benign lesions and low-grade malignancies. All lesions with a normalized uptake value of 1.6 or greater were high-grade, while all lesions less than 1.6 represented either benign tumors or low grade malignancies. This strong relationship between FDG uptake and grade among neoplasms from a wide variety of cell types within a single organ system suggests that the technique may be useful in predicting grade even when the cell type is unknown. 
The association of laryngoceles with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. The clinical diagnosis of laryngoceles simultaneously occurring with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx is infrequent; however, when specimens from patients with laryngeal cancer have been examined closely, the two entities have been associated in 4.9% to 28.8% of cases. Despite this apparent relationship, the literature has failed to address the potential impact of a concurrent laryngocele on surgical decision making. Also, the wide variation in the reported rates of simultaneous occurrence of these two entities is unexplained. We performed whole-organ histopathologic analysis on a laryngeal specimen with bilateral external laryngoceles associated with squamous cell carcinoma and correlated this to computed tomography findings. Based on this information and other reports concerning the pattern of spread of carcinoma within laryngoceles, it appears that supraglottic laryngectomy is oncologically sound in the presence of a laryngocele as long as the usual criteria for this procedure are met. 
Cardiovascular causes of syncope. Identifying and controlling trigger mechanisms. Syncope usually has a cardiovascular source, so neurologic evaluation has a low diagnostic yield in these patients. Cardiac arrhythmias in persons with or without structural heart disease can produce syncope. Neurocardiogenic dysfunction that results in diminished venous return and hypercontractility is another frequent cause. Postural hypotension or left ventricular outflow obstruction may also be to blame. Careful history taking and physical examination, head-up tilt testing, echocardiography or radionuclide isotope imaging, and electrophysiologic study are often diagnostic. However, syncope remains undiagnosed in some patients, and they may require periodic reassessment. Treatment options are available for most cardiovascular disorders, among them use of pharmacologic agents; catheter, surgical, or radio-frequency modification of certain tachycardias; and permanent pacing. 
Fact and fancy. What can we really tell from the placenta? Considerable interest in the clinical significance of placental abnormalities has been fueled by malpractice claims when perinatal outcome is less than optimal. The pathologist must be aware of those placental lesions that may contribute to perinatal morbidity and mortality. This article reviews the abnormalities of placentation, placental weight, maternal uteroplacental blood flow, villous histological makeup, fetoplacental blood flow, the umbilical cord, and the membranes, as well as the problems of multiple pregnancy. The important contribution of abnormal uteroplacental blood flow to adverse perinatal outcome is emphasized, as is the need to determine the extent of placental damage when evaluating the contribution thereto of particular placental abnormalities. 
Pronounced reduction of aortic flow velocity and acceleration during heavy isometric exercise in coronary artery disease. Doppler-derived parameters of aortic flow were examined during heavy isometric exercise in 48 men with coronary artery disease (CAD) and in 48 gender- and age-matched healthy controls. The aim was to determine which parameters best separated the groups and to look for a possible relation between exercise-induced Doppler patterns and the extent of CAD. Isometric exercise was performed with a 2-hand bar dynamometer, and the subjects were required to perform 50% of maximal voluntary contraction for 2 minutes. Examination was performed with a pulsed Doppler transducer positioned at the suprasternal notch. Resting peak flow velocity, acceleration time, stroke volume index and cardiac index did not show significant differences between the groups. However, mean acceleration and stroke work were significantly lower in patients with CAD. In this group, exercise peak flow velocity decreased from 98 +/- 13 to 55 +/- 12 cm/s, flow velocity integral from 14 +/- 3 to 7 +/- 3 cm, mean acceleration from 11 +/- 0.9 to 4.7 +/- 1 m/s/s, and stroke volume index from 41 +/- 6 to 23 +/- 4 ml/m2 (p less than 0.001 for all). Cardiac index decreased from 2.7 +/- 0.4 to 2 +/- 0.2 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.05). Acceleration time increased from 82 +/- 6 to 116 +/- 7 ms. In most of the indexes, the directional changes induced by isometric exercise were similar in patients with CAD and in normal control subjects. The differences compared with the rest values were significantly greater in the CAD group, and especially in patients presenting with 3-vessel disease. 
Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome associated with endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary. Both EST and Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome are uncommon disorders. This report illustrates a case of these two rare conditions occurring in the same patient. Patients with Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome, although not appearing to be at increased risk for germ cell tumors, unlike testicular feminization patients, are not immune to ovarian cancer. Therefore, individuals with Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome should still be followed gynecologically because they are at least at the normal risk of developing ovarian as well as other gynecological neoplasms. 
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (leuprolide acetate) induced ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a woman undergoing intermittent hemodialysis. Moderate ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome occurred after LA was administered to control menorrhagia in an anephric woman who required hemodialysis. We postulate that women who require dialysis may be at special risk for the development of this syndrome. 
Structure-dependent dynamic mechanical behavior of fibrous caps from human atherosclerotic plaques. BACKGROUND. Although thrombosis associated with a fissured atherosclerotic plaque is believed to be the most common cause of acute coronary syndromes, the underlying factors that trigger plaque rupture are currently unknown. However, the mechanical behavior of the plaque is probably of critical importance. METHODS AND RESULTS. To test the hypothesis that the mechanical properties of a plaque are dependent on its composition and, in particular, that the stiffness of fibrous caps changes within the range of frequencies carried by a physiological pressure wave, the stress-strain relation was studied in 27 fibrous caps and related to the underlying histological structure of the fibrous cap. Fibrous caps were obtained during 14 autopsies from the abdominal aorta and were classified by histological examination as cellular (n = 7), hypocellular (n = 9), or calcified (n = 11). Hypocellular fibrous caps were 1-2 times stiffer than cellular caps (p less than 0.005), and calcified caps were 4-5 times stiffer than cellular caps (p less than 0.005). All 27 fibrous caps demonstrated an increase in stiffness with increasing frequencies of stress ranging from 0.05 to 10 Hz; the increase in stiffness was similar in all three histological classes. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that the stiffness of fibrous caps from human atherosclerotic plaques is related to the underlying histological structure and that the stiffness increases with frequency in the range of physiological heart rates. The protective benefit of beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents in coronary artery disease may, in part, be related to the frequency dependence of atherosclerotic plaque stiffness. 
Malignant biliary obstruction complicated by ascites: transjugular insertion of an expandable metallic endoprosthesis. Although the transjugular approach has long been used to provide safe access to the liver, it has not been used for placement of stents in biliary obstruction. The recent development of an expandable metallic endoprosthesis now makes this method more feasible. The case of a patient with malignant biliary obstruction complicated by ascites is presented herein. Palliation was achieved with an expandable biliary endoprosthesis placed by the transjugular-hepatic vein approach. 
Identical orocecal transit time and serum motilin in hyperthermia and normothermia. Fever, exercise, and exposure to a hot environment can all cause symptoms of gastrointestinal dysfunction as they elevate body temperature. Nonetheless, the link between hyperthermia per se and these symptoms is unknown. To test the functional significance of increased body temperature, we investigated the influence of substantial passive hyperthermia on orocecal transit in 12 young, healthy men. Transit time was determined by a consistent rise in H2 concentration in a rebreathing apparatus after oral ingestion of 0.7 g lactulose/kg body weight. Lactulose was given in combination with a 350-ml liquid meal (360 kcal). After raising core temperature in warm water to 38.3 degrees C, orocecal transit time was identical to control (90 +/- 13 min at 38.3 degrees C, 92 +/- 13 min at 37.1 degrees C). While hyperthermia did elevate heart rate and minute ventilation, serum motilin, gastrin, and cortisol were similar in the two conditions. The failure of a passive core temperature rise to alter mouth-to-cecum transit suggests that this aspect of alimentary function is independent of body temperature. 
Breslow thickness of cutaneous malignant melanoma in paraffin wax and frozen sections. Breslow tumour thickness was measured in frozen and paraffin wax sections from 21 excision biopsies of cutaneous malignant melanomas by two observers. There was no consistent variation between frozen and paraffin wax sections, with recorded differences ranging from +0.3 mm to -0.2 mm. Interobserver differences ranged from +0.4 mm to -0.2 mm. The interobserver variations exceeded the intraobserver variations, but neither were significant. These findings show conclusively that, when using high quality frozen sections, there is no significant difference between Breslow thickness measured in frozen or paraffin wax sections and therefore that frozen sections can be used to microstage melanoma. Interobserver variations seem to be a more likely source of erroneous measurements of tumour thickness. 
Association of hypovolemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage with computed tomographic scan evidence of raised intracranial pressure. Hypovolemic patients are more likely to suffer delayed cerebral ischemia and infarction after a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Prompt recognition and correction of hypovolemia may improve the outcome. We have identified computed tomographic (CT) scan findings that increase the probability of a patient presenting with hypovolemia soon after an SAH. The plasma volume (PV) of 25 patients admitted within 96 hours of an SAH was measured using radioiodinated serum albumin. The normal PVs were measured in an outpatient setting 6 months later or predicted from their total body water. Nine patients (36%) were found to be hypovolemic, defined as a fall in PV exceeding 10% of the normal PV (mean fall, 18 +/- 2%). Sixteen patients were normovolemic or hypervolemic (mean PV, +9 +/- 2%). The basal cisterns were compressed or obliterated on the CT scans of all hypovolemic patients compared with 12.5% of normovolemic patients (chi-square, 14.52; P less than 0.01). The probabilities of a patient being hypovolemic if the CT scan indicated raised intracranial pressure were high: hydrocephalus, P = 0.80; compression of the basal cisterns, P = 0.82; and compression of the basal cisterns associated with intracerebral hematoma or midline shift, P = 1.00. Patients with an SAH and radiological evidence of raised intracranial pressure should be considered at particular risk for systemic hypovolemia. 
Invasive aspergillus rhinosinusitis in patients with acute leukemia. Invasive aspergillus rhinosinusitis is a potentially lethal complication of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in patients with acute leukemia. The majority of cases are caused by Aspergillus flavus. The infection is difficult to diagnose early but should be suspected when a neutropenic patient develops persistent fever without a known source, symptoms of rhinitis or sinusitis, cutaneous findings over the nose or sinuses, symptoms and signs of orbital or cavernous sinus disease, or an ulcerating lesion of the hard palate or gingiva. Careful anterior rhinoscopy followed by computed tomography of the sinus helps establish the diagnosis, which should be confirmed by histologic study and culture of biopsied material. Early treatment with aggressive surgery, high-dose amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine, and possibly white blood cell transfusions may produce a cure if the patient's bone marrow recovers. Newer antifungal agents offer promise for prophylaxis and treatment of this infection. 
A randomized trial evaluating leuprolide acetate before hysterectomy as treatment for leiomyomas. Fifty premenopausal patients requiring hysterectomy as treatment for symptomatic uterine leiomyomas, which were the size of 14 to 18 weeks' gestation, were randomized into two groups to determine whether preoperative gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist would increase the feasibility of vaginal rather than abdominal hysterectomy. The control group (group A; n = 25) did not receive preoperative gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist, but patients in Group B (n = 25) received 2 months of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist before undergoing hysterectomy. Patients in the two groups were similar with respect to age, gravidity, parity, pretreatment uterine size, and hemoglobin and hematocrit levels. Patients in group B had an increase in hemoglobin levels (10.75 to 12.12 gm/dl, p less than 0.05) and a decrease in uterine volume (1086.7 to 723.4 ml, p less than 0.05) after 8 weeks of agonist therapy and were more likely to undergo vaginal hysterectomy (76.0% vs 16%). Patients in group B also had shorter hospitalizations (5.2 vs 3.8 days, p less than 0.05). We conclude that the administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist for 2 months followed by vaginal hysterectomy is preferable to abdominal hysterectomy in selected patients with uterine leiomyomas. 
Cleft palate fistulas: a multivariate statistical analysis of prevalence, etiology, and surgical management. A retrospective, multivariate statistical analysis of 129 consecutive nonsyndromic patients undergoing cleft palate repair was performed to document the incidence of postoperative fistulas, to determine their cause, and to review methods of surgical management. Nasal-alveolar fistulas and/or anterior palatal fistulas that were intentionally not repaired were excluded from study. Cleft palate fistulas (CPFs) occurred in 30 of 129 patients (23 percent), although nearly a half were 1 to 2 mm in size. Extent of clefting, as estimated by the Veau classification, was significantly more severe in those patients who developed cleft palate fistula. Type of palate closure also influenced the frequency of cleft palate fistula. Forty-three percent of patients undergoing Wardill-type closures developed cleft palate fistula versus 10, 22, and 0 percent for Furlow, von Langenbeck, and Dorrance style closures, respectively. The fistula rate was similar in patients with (30 percent) and without (25 percent) intravelar veloplasty. Age at palate closure did not significantly affect the rate of fistulization; however, the surgeon performing the initial closure did not have an effect. Thirty-seven percent of patients developed recurrent cleft palate fistulas following initial fistula repair. Recurrence of cleft palate fistulas was not influenced by severity of cleft or type of original palate repair. Following end-stage management, a second cleft palate fistula recurrence occurred in 25 percent of patients. Continued open discussion of results of cleft palate repair is recommended. 
Deafness after bilateral midbrain contusion: a correlation of magnetic resonance imaging with auditory brain stem evoked responses. A 46-year-old woman became deaf after a closed head injury. When a computed tomographic scan failed to disclose the cause, conversion disorder was suspected. Magnetic resonance imaging, however, showed bilateral contusions of the inferior colliculi, providing objective evidence for an organic cause of hearing loss. Auditory brain stem evoked responses and stapedial reflexes also provided objective evidence of brain stem injury. This case illustrates the phenomenon of dorsal midbrain injury after head trauma. It indicates the sensitivity of magnetic resonance imaging for small focal lesions after head trauma, and it demonstrates some difficulties in the diagnosis of "hysterical" deafness. 
Chronic cough in children. Chronic cough in children is a frequent complaint seen by the primary health care provider. Although many of these coughs spontaneously resolve, some are caused by a more serious process and require further attention. Selecting those patients who will benefit from a more extensive evaluation can be a difficult challenge. An overview is provided that emphasizes a systematic approach to the diagnosis and management of chronic cough. 
Acute hemorrhagic diarrhea and cardiovascular collapse in a young child owing to environmentally acquired cocaine. Acute crack cocaine intoxication has become a significant problem in both adolescent and adult patients. Recently, cases of cocaine toxicity in infants and toddlers have been described. We report a four-year-old child with acute hemorrhagic diarrhea and shock after intoxication by crack cocaine. Acute cocaine intoxication should be considered in the differential for hemorrhagic diarrhea and shock. The gastrointestinal decontamination following cocaine ingestion is discussed. 
The t(1;22) (p13;q13) is nonrandom and restricted to infants with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group Study. We report the nonrandom occurrence and frequency of the t(1;22)(p13;q13) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and its close association with the French-American-British M7 subtype of AML in infants (less than 1 year). This chromosomal abnormality occurred in 6 of 252 (2.4%) children and adolescents with AML (6 of 28 infants, 22%; 6 of 18 M7 AML cases overall, 33%; and 6 of 6 M7 cases in infants). Infants with AML of M7 subtype and the t(1;22) often presented with prominent abdominal masses. Two of these infants were not treated and died early. Three of four treated infants entered complete remission with therapy for AML; the remaining infant died of hemorrhage on day 8. Of the three infants who entered remission, only one remains alive and disease free at 5+ months. The other two infants relapsed in the bone marrow at 5 and 2 months from the start of therapy, respectively. We conclude that M7 AML with the t(1;22) usually presents in infants with extensive infiltration of abdominal organs by leukemic cells and may confer a poor prognosis despite intensive AML-directed treatment. Identification of this nonrandom translocation exclusively in infants with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMkL) implies that it may serve as an additional diagnostic marker for this disease and links it to the pathogenesis of AMkL in infants. 
Intracellular calcium and ventricular fibrillation. Studies in the aequorin-loaded isovolumic ferret heart. To elucidate the role of changes in [Ca2+]i in the induction of ventricular fibrillation (VF), Ca2+i signals, epicardial electrical potentials, and isovolumic left ventricular pressure were simultaneously recorded in isolated intact ferret hearts loaded with aequorin, a bioluminescent protein. When the preparations were perfused with 3 microM acetylstrophanthidin and 8 mM Ca2+, or with a low Na+ solution (18 mM Na+, 100 mM Li+), spontaneous transitions to the VF state were consistently observed within a short period of time. The initiation of spontaneous VF was preceded by development of a Ca2+i overload state, coincidental with the ascending phase of diastolic Ca2+i oscillations, and was followed by further elevation in Ca2+i levels, which were associated with augmented Ca2+i oscillations of a saw-toothed pattern. Pretreatment with 10 microM ryanodine, which blocked Ca2+i oscillations in the preparation, did not eliminate inducibility of VF by means of AC electrical stimulations; however, VF no longer occurred spontaneously, and the threshold for VF induction increased markedly. In the absence of a state of Ca2+i overload, spontaneous defibrillation occurred within a minute after the initiation of VF. We conclude that 1) VF can be induced in the absence of Ca2+i oscillations; however, 2) Ca2+i oscillations play a crucial role as a trigger for VF and therefore are an important determinant of the vulnerability to VF; and 3) the augmented Ca2+i oscillations after the transition to VF state may support the maintenance of this type of arrhythmia. 
Urinary fibrinopeptide A in evaluation of patients with suspected acute pulmonary embolism. A prospective pilot study. This pilot study assessed the urinary fibrinopeptide A (uFPA) levels and the combination of uFPA test plus ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan in the diagnostic evaluation of acute pulmonary embolism (PE). One hundred consecutive patients were studied prospectively. Twenty-nine patients fulfilled diagnostic criteria defined in this study (seven with and 22 without PE). The uFPA concentration was significantly higher in patients with than without PE (41.1 +/- 2.6 vs 4.8 +/- 2.5 ng/mg of creatinine, p less than 0.0001). In all patients with PE, the uFPA levels were higher than threshold value derived by adding 2 standard deviations to the mean uFPA concentration of patients without PE. In patients without PE, the V/Q scan was negative in 16, the uFPA test was negative in 18, and at least one of the tests was negative in 21. These preliminary data suggest that a negative uFPA test may be helpful in excluding PE and that uFPA in combination with V/Q lung scans may correctly exclude PE in more patients than either test alone. Further studies in a large unselected population are needed to confirm these results. 
Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVsm) isolation from blood and brain of experimentally infected macaques. The possibility of using simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected macaques to study pathogenic events linked to HIV infection of the brain prompted us to investigate some of the virological features in SIV-infected macaques. Nine cynomolgus macaques were inoculated with SIVsm and killed at different times. We successfully isolated virus from the blood of all the animals and from the brains of eight. These results point to the early and regular spread of this lentivirus to the brain. Neutralizing activity was studied in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid specimens obtained from these macaques against a selected group of isolates. Cerebrospinal fluid did not show any neutralizing activity. Our findings integrate the observations from HIV-1 infection in man and indicate that SIV infection of macaques is a useful model for studying pathogenic events of brain infection. 
Clinical relevance of tumor cell ploidy and N-myc gene amplification in childhood neuroblastoma: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. We assessed tumor cell DNA content (ploidy) and N-myc gene copy number as predictors of long-term disease-free survival in 298 children with neuroblastoma. Diploid tumor stem lines were identified in 101 patients (34%), clonal hyperdiploid abnormalities in 194 (65%), and hypodiploid stem lines in three (1%). In children with widely disseminated tumors at diagnosis (stage D), ploidy had a highly age-dependent influence on prognosis. Among infants (less than 12 months) treated with cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin, hyperdiploidy was closely associated with long-term disease-free survival (greater than 90% of cases), while diploidy invariably predicted early treatment failure (P less than .001). Similarly, in children 12 to 24 months of age who were treated with cisplatin-teniposide and cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin, diploidy uniformly predicted early failure, whereas half of the children with hyperdiploidy achieved long-term disease-free survival (P less than .001). There was no relationship between ploidy and treatment outcome in children older than 24 months with stage D tumors who had a very low probability of long-term disease-free survival (less than 10%). N-myc gene amplification was detected in 37 (25%) of the 147 tumors tested, with the remainder showing single-copy levels of the gene. N-myc gene amplification was more frequent in diploid than in hyperdiploid tumors (23 of 57 v 14 of 87, P = .001) and predicted a high likelihood of early treatment failure. In children younger than 2 years with disseminated neuroblastoma, tumor cell ploidy and N-myc gene copy number provide complementary prognostic information that will distinguish patients who can be cured on current regimens from those who require new treatment strategies. 
Bradycardic responses to vagally mediated bedside maneuvers in healthy volunteers. PURPOSE: To determine the relative potency in healthy individuals of the vagally mediated reflexes used clinically to inhibit sinoatrial and atrioventricular node function. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Twenty healthy volunteers with no history of heart disease performed face immersion in cold water and the Valsalva maneuver twice, to maximum endurance and to the subjective point of first discomfort, and face immersion in warm water and the Muller maneuver to maximum endurance only. Right and left carotid massage and left, right, and bilateral eyeball compression were each performed for 15 seconds. Change in heart rate was taken as baseline minus the rate over the slowest three consecutive QRS cycles elicited by each maneuver. Fisher's least-significant-difference multiple comparison procedure was used to analyze heart rate responses. Significance was defined as p less than or equal to 0.05. RESULTS: Maximum pulse decrements from baseline and 95% confidence intervals in beats/minute were as follows: cold-water face immersion to maximum endurance 15.5 (12.3 to 18.5), cold-water face immersion to first discomfort 10.1 (6.7 to 13.1), Valsalva maneuver to maximum endurance 9.2 (6.3 to 12.4), Valsalva maneuver to first discomfort 8.3 (5.0 to 11.3), right carotid massage 7.3 (4.3 to 10.3), left carotid massage 5.2 (2.3 to 8.4), right eyeball compression 6.0 (3.1 to 9.2), left eyeball compression 6.6 (3.6 to 9.5), bilateral eyeball compression 6.0 (3.1 to 9.2), warm-water face immersion 7.0 (3.2 to 9.8), and Muller maneuver 1.6 (-1.3 to 4.9). Bradycardia was significantly greater for cold-water immersion of the face performed to maximum endurance than for all other maneuvers. CONCLUSION: In healthy subjects, the diving reflex is the most potent of the vagally mediated reflexes utilized in clinical practice. Immersion of the face in cold water may prove effective at the bedside when other maneuvers fail to augment vagal tone adequately. 
A human Lactobacillus strain (Lactobacillus casei sp strain GG) promotes recovery from acute diarrhea in children. To determine the effect of a human Lactobacillus strain (Lactobacillus casei sp strain GG, Gefilac) on recovery from acute diarrhea (82% rotavirus), 71 well-nourished children between 4 and 45 months of age were studied. After oral rehydration, the patients randomly received either Lactobacillus GG-fermented milk product, 125 g (10(10-11) colony-forming units) twice daily (group 1); Lactobacillus GG freeze-dried powder, one dose (10(10-11) colony-forming units) twice daily (group 2); or a placebo, a pasteurized yogurt (group 3) 125 g twice daily; each diet was given for 5 days, in addition to normal full diet otherwise free of fermented dairy products. The mean (SD) duration of diarrhea after commencing the therapy was significantly shorter in group 1 (1.4 [0.8] days) and in group 2 (1.4 [0.8] days) than in group 3 (2.4 [1.1] days); F = 8.70, P less than 0.001. After rehydration, each dietary group maintained a positive weight trend. The urinary lactulose-mannitol recovery ratios (means [95% confidence intervals]) on admission were 0.09 (0.03, 0.24) in group 1, 0.12 (0.07, 0.22) in group 2, and 0.08 (0.04, 0.18) in group 3; no significant alterations in intestinal permeability were observed at retesting after 2 days of realimentation. The result indicates that early nutritional repletion after rehydration causes no mucosal disruption and is beneficial for recovery from diarrhea. It is further suggested that Lactobacillus GG in the form of fermented milk or freeze-dried powder is effective in shortening the course of acute diarrhea. 
Comparison of different doses of epinephrine on myocardial perfusion and resuscitation success during cardiopulmonary resuscitation in a pig model. Published results of dose-response effects of adrenergic drugs (epinephrine [E]) vary so much between studies because of differences in animal models and duration of ischemia before drug administration. In this investigation the effects of different doses of E on coronary perfusion pressure (CPP), left ventricular myocardial blood flow (MBF) and resuscitation success were compared during closed-chest cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) after a 4-minute period of ventricular fibrillation in 28 pigs. MBF was measured during normal sinus rhythm using tracer microspheres. After 4 minutes of ventricular fibrillation CPR was performed with the use of a pneumatic piston compressor. After 4 minutes of mechanical measures only, the animals were randomly allocated into four groups of seven, receiving 0.015, 0.030, 0.045, and 0.090 mg/kg E intravenously respectively. MBF measurements were started 45 seconds after E administration; hemodynamic measurements after 90 seconds. Four minutes after the first administration, the same E dose was given before defibrillation. The CPP of animals given 0.015, 0.030, 0.045 and 0.090 mg/kg E were as follows: 16.3 +/- 6.1, 25.6 +/- 5.8, 33.2 +/- 8.4 and 30.4 +/- 6.3 mm Hg. The left ventricular MBF values were: 14 +/- 9, 27 +/- 11, 43 +/- 6, 46 +/- 10 mL/min/100 g. The differences between the groups receiving 0.015 and 0.045 mg/kg and between the groups receiving 0.015 mg/kg and 0.090 mg/kg were statistically significant (P less than .05). Resuscitation success was 14.3%, 42.9%, 100% and 86.7% respectively. A significant difference in resuscitation success was found only between 0.015 mg/kg and 0.045 mg/kg E. 
Detection of fibronectin receptor in sera: its clinical significance as a parameter of hepatic fibrosis. Pooled sera collected from cirrhotic patients was fractionated by affinity chromatography with a fibronectin receptor monoclonal antibody against the beta-subunit of fibronectin receptor. Eluates were assayed using Western immunoblotting. The relative mobility of the protein reactive with fibronectin receptor antibody was nearly identical to that of the beta-subunit of fibronectin receptor, confirming that fibronectin receptor is present in human serum. Serum levels of the beta-subunit of fibronectin receptor were analyzed by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in patients with various liver diseases. The serum level of fibronectin receptor (micrograms/ml) was significantly higher in patients with chronic hepatitis (inactive, 2.59 +/- 0.04; active, 3.45 +/- 0.13), cirrhosis (4.77 +/- 0.30), alcoholic liver disease (2.96 +/- 0.16) and hepatocellular carcinoma (4.71 +/- 0.49) than in normal subjects (2.11 +/- 0.08). Strong positive correlation was observed between serum levels of fibronectin receptor and histological findings, particularly in the degree of hepatic fibrosis. Immunohistochemical studies with fibronectin receptor antibody revealed that the beta-subunit of fibronectin receptor was present on the plasma membrane of hepatocytes and sinusoidal lining cells in the normal liver and was increased in fibrotic areas and on the plasma membrane of hepatocytes and sinusoidal lining cells of fibrotic liver. The serum level of fibronectin receptor in patients with chronic liver diseases may therefore be a useful marker of hepatic fibrosis. 
Occupational urticaria from welding polyurethane. An urticarial reaction associated with high fever developed in a welder on four occasions while he was welding steel profiles filled with polyurethane. The fumes emitted during pyrolysis of polyurethane and inhaled by the patient probably caused the urticarial reaction. Provocation tests with two pyrolysis products, 4,4-diphenylmethane diisocyanate and 4,4-diaminophenylmethane, were negative. This case demonstrates the difficulty in detecting the cause of urticaria induced by airborne chemicals. 
Timing of surgery during menstrual cycle and survival of premenopausal women with operable breast cancer Timing of operation in relation to menstrual phase might affect outlook in premenopausal women with operable breast cancer. We examined the records of 249 such women treated between 1975 and 1985, and compared overall and recurrence-free survival in those whose operation was 3-12 days after their last menstrual period (LMP) (group 1, n = 75) with those in whom it was 0-2 or 13-32 days after LMP (group 2, n = 174). Overall and recurrence-free survival were greatly reduced in group 1 women (p less than 0.001 for both). Actuarial survival at 10 years was 54% in group 1 versus 84% in group 2. This effect was independent of other factors, was of much the same importance as nodal status in multivariate analysis, was largely confined to histologically node-positive cases, seemed to be greater in women with small tumours (less than or equal to 2 cm), and was seen in patients with oestrogen-receptor positive and negative tumours. Thus phase of menstrual cycle at operation is of great importance for long-term outlook in premenopausal women with breast cancer. 
Cardiovascular surgery in blacks. The available information concerning cardiovascular surgery in blacks is very limited and incomplete. Those few reports that do exist seem to show that the usual indications for surgery, preoperative findings, and final results can be expected. Acquired heart disease is as important a cause of mortality in African Americans as in others and is amenable to surgical intervention. Surgical mortality is easily attributable to the usual iatrogenic variables or comorbid disease. At present it is uncertain whether the incidence of inoperable disease or problems of access to health care are responsible for the low rate of utilization by blacks. A more accurate account will become available when large-volume programs begin to report their results. 
Six-year retrospective surveillance of gastroenteritis viruses identified at ten electron microscopy centers in the United States and Canada. To identify the prevalence, seasonality and demographic characteristics of patients with viral gastroenteritis, we reviewed 6 years of retrospective data on viral agents of gastroenteritis screened by electron microscopy at 10 centers in the United States and Canada. From 52,691 individual electron microscopic observations, a virus was detected in 16% of specimens, and the yearly positive detection rate among centers ranged from 8 to 34%. Rotavirus was the agent most commonly observed (26 to 83%), followed by adenoviruses (8 to 27%, respiratory and enteric combined), and small round viruses (SRVs) (0 to 40%) which were second most common at two of the centers. Rotavirus and astrovirus detections occurred more often in the winter but seasonal trends in detection were not apparent for the other viruses. Of all astroviruses detected 64% were found in infants (less than 1 year); unlike the other agents studied SRVs were detected in a large percentage of infants (48%) and older children and adults (20%). Among hospitalized patients a majority of all astroviruses, caliciviruses and SRVs were detected 7 days or more after admission in contrast to both rotaviruses and adenoviruses which were more likely to be detected earlier. The data suggest that SRVs are common agents of gastroenteritis and may be important causes of nosocomial infections. Because of the relative insensitivity of direct electron microscopy as a screening method for SRVs, astroviruses and caliciviruses, these data probably underestimate the true prevalence of disease caused by these agents. 
High dietary linoleic acid affects the fatty acid compositions of individual phospholipids from tissues of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar): association with stress susceptibility and cardiac lesion. For 16 wk Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) post-smolts were fed practical-type diets that contained either fish oil (FO) or sunflower oil (SO) as the lipid component. Both diets contained adequate (n-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). All the phospholipids of heart and liver from SO-fed fish had increased levels of 18:2(n-6), 20:2(n-6) and 20:3(n-6); phosphatidyl choline (PC) and phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE) also had increased 20:4(n-6). There was a general decrease in 20:5(n-3) in the phospholipids, reflected in an increase in the 20:4(n-6)/20:5(n-3) ratio, especially in PC and PE. The fatty acid compositions of phospholipids from brain and retina were much less affected by dietary linoleate than those of heart and liver. Fish fed SO developed severe heart lesions that caused thinning of the ventricular wall and muscle necrosis. The fish fed SO also were susceptible to a transportation-induced shock syndrome that caused 30% mortality. These results establish that a diet with a low (n-3)/(n-6) ratio can cause changes in fatty acid metabolism that are deleterious to the health of salmonid fish, especially when subjected to stress. 
Evaluation of the Ca2+ distribution in aortic tissue of spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats [letter] In the present study, particle-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) was used to get information on the spatial distribution of Ca2+ in aortas of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive controls aged 1 week, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks. To differentiate changes in Ca2+ metabolism in hypertensive arteries from secondary phenomena due to the arteriosclerosis, the animals were examined in the earliest stage of hypertension. It was found that the Ca2+ content was not elevated in the aortic smooth muscle of SHR aged 1 week (n = 11), as compared to normotensive controls (n = 10) (186.8 +/- 89.9 micrograms Ca2+/g tissue v 254.0 +/- 173.3 micrograms Ca2+/g). The Ca2+ content was raised (P less than .05) in the aortic smooth muscle of SHR aged 4 weeks (n = 13), as compared to 12 WKY rats (4 weeks) (726.0 +/- 130.4 micrograms Ca2+/g tissue v 440.3 +/- 214.4 micrograms Ca2+/g) and in 17 SHR (3 months), as compared to 13 WKY rats, respectively (3390.1 +/- 729.9 micrograms Ca2+/g tissue v 1632.1 +/- 569.5 micrograms Ca2+/g). The results confirm the age-related increase in the arterial Ca2+ content in normotensive rats and demonstrate additionally that this age-related rise in arterial Ca2+ content is accelerated in SHR. 
Urinary calcium as an early marker for preeclampsia. Women who develop preeclampsia during pregnancy excrete less calcium than healthy pregnant women. Whether this reduction in calcium excretion precedes or follows hypertension is unknown. We prospectively measured urinary calcium excretion in 103 consecutive nulliparous women at risk for preeclampsia and presenting for prenatal care before 24 weeks' gestation. Serial 24-hour urine specimens were obtained at 10-24 weeks, 25-32 weeks, and 33 weeks to term. After delivery, the charts were reviewed for the presence of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension. At the first collection, patients who later developed preeclampsia excreted less urinary calcium (169 +/- 30 mg/24 hours; mean +/- standard error of the mean) than those who remained normotensive (298 +/- 15 mg/24 hours) (P less than .05); this reduction persisted throughout gestation. Using a receiver operator curve, we calculated a predictive threshold calcium value for hypertension of 195 mg/24 hours. The difference in the incidence of preeclampsia between pregnant women with calcium excretion values at or below 195 mg/24 hours (87%, 95% confidence interval 52-98%) and those with values above that level (2%, confidence interval 0.3-8%) was highly significant (Fisher exact test, P less than .0001). The 95% lower limit of relative risk for preeclampsia in patients with a calcium excretion equal to or below 195 mg/24 hours in the first collection was 9.4. These observations suggest a pathophysiologic role for altered urinary calcium excretion in women with preeclampsia that may contribute to the early identification of patients at risk for this disease. 
Manometric and radiologic investigations and biofeedback treatment of chronic idiopathic anal pain. In 12 patients suffering from chronic idiopathic anal pain, the rectosphincteric function was studied using manometric and x-ray techniques. The results of manometric investigations were compared with those obtained in 12 healthy volunteers. In all patients, the resting pressure in the anal canal was significantly higher than in control subjects. In 10 patients, defecography revealed abnormalities of the pelvic muscles. We treated the patients by using biofeedback techniques, consisting of voluntary modifications of the state of contraction of the external sphincter. In all cases, pain disappeared after a mean of eight biofeedback training sessions. When noxious manifestations had disappeared, manometry showed a significant decrease in the anal canal resting pressure. Our results indicate 1) that chronic idiopathic anal pain is associated with abnormal anorectal manometric profiles, probably resulting from a dysfunctioning of the striated external anal sphincter, and 2) that biofeedback training is an effective treatment for chronic idiopathic anal pain. 
Pathophysiology and treatment of septic shock. The mortality from septic shock continues to range between 40% to 60% despite advances in cardiovascular support and antibiotic therapy. Impairment of host defenses predisposes to the development of both severe infection and septic shock. The activation of a myriad of cellular and plasma mediators by microbial toxins produces the systemic and metabolic manifestations of sepsis. The clinical presentation includes characteristic clinical, hemodynamic, and laboratory abnormalities. Multiple organ systems are involved during septic shock, with outcome dependent on the circulatory response and the development of sequential organ failures. Initial resuscitation is directed at restoring tissue perfusion with fluids and vasoactive drugs, guided by assessment of the patient's hemodynamic status. Identification of the site of infection and choice of appropriate antibiotics are critical to the success of therapy. Newer therapeutic modalities include immunologic interventions that attenuate mediator activity and modulate the immune response. Pharmacologic therapies are also being developed that are aimed at blocking the actions of specific mediators. 
Testing the psychogenic vomiting diagnosis. Four pediatric patients. We treated four patients with chronic vomiting during childhood in whom a tentative diagnosis of psychogenic vomiting was made after an extensive evaluation. In each case, the diagnosis was reconsidered during the course of treatment, as observations about the patients and their response to interventions accumulated. In three instances, these observations did not fit those expected if the diagnosis of psychogenic vomiting was correct. This led to a reexamination of the organic evaluation and the discovery of an undiagnosed organic contribution to the vomiting. In the fourth patient, gastric emptying studies confirmed that there was a strong psychological contribution to the vomiting, and helped to more carefully define this contribution. Family and individual psychotherapy and treatment were aided by the greater clarity in diagnosis. 
Anti-tumor effect of L-methionine-deprived total parenteral nutrition with 5-fluorouracil administration on Yoshida sarcoma-bearing rats. L-methionine-deprived total parenteral nutrition (methionine-deprived TPN), infusing amino acid solution devoid of L-methionine and L-cysteine by the method of TPN as an only protein source, showed enhancement of the effect of several anti-cancer agents. In this study the combined effect of the methionine-deprived TPN with administration of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was examined in Yoshida Sarcoma (YS)-bearing rats, from aspects of effects on the tumor metastasis and the host animal's life span, in the following four groups treated with: methionine-deprived TPN with administration of 5-FU, methionine-deprived TPN without administration of 5-FU, L-methionine-contained TPN plus 5-FU, and L-methionine-contained TPN without 5-FU. In the first experiment, TPN was continued for 8 days in the four groups, and the anti-cancer effect of methionine-deprived TPN and administration of 5-FU based on both the growth of the primary tumor at the implanted site and the tumor metastasis was studied from the view point of pathologic findings of animals killed immediately after these treatments. In experiment 2 the survival period was examined after these treatments for 10 days with subsequent oral feeding until death. The results were as follows: proliferation of YS, transplanted subcutaneously, was markedly suppressed; particularly hematogenous metastasis, characteristic in YS, was prominently blunted then obtained an apparent longer survival period in rats treated with the methionine-deprived TPN with administration of 5-FU. 
Regional cerebral blood flow correlates of language processes in reading disability. This series of studies tests the hypothesis of abnormal left hemisphere activation in reading-disabled subjects during language task performance. First, a left superotemporal focus of activation, as measured by regional cerebral blood flow, was found to be positively correlated with task accuracy in a group of 69 normal adults. Next, that left superotemporal activation was replicated in a second group of 83 adults whose childhood reading ability was known from standardized tests given in childhood. Finally, in that latter group, childhood reading ability was also found to be inversely correlated with focal activation in a more posterior, temporoparietal area of cortex. Adult reading outcome was statistically unrelated to this finding. The results are interpreted as suggesting a trait anomaly of left hemisphere cerebral activation in adults who were dyslexic as children and as providing an existence proof of individual differences in focal cortical activation sites during constant task demands. 
Role of postoperative radiation therapy in stage IIIa non-small cell lung cancer. One hundred forty-six patients with pathological stage IIIa non-small cell lung cancer were retrospectively analyzed to determine whether postoperative radiation therapy improves survival and reduces locoregional recurrences. The survival rate of the overall group at 1, 3, and 5 years was 56%, 24%, and 17%, respectively. Regarding the type of resection and histology, we did not observe statistically significant differences. Patients with N0 and N1 disease were grouped and compared with the N2 group, and survival at 3 and 5 years was 41% and 27%, respectively, for the T3 N0-1 group and 17% and 15%, respectively, for the T3 N2 group (p less than 0.001 and p = 0.05, respectively). Eighty-six patients received postoperative irradiation (45 to 50 Gy) and 60 did not. We have not observed any improvement in survival with postoperative radiation therapy, except in those patients with N2 disease. Median survival time was 6 months for patients without irradiation and 15 months for those with irradiation (p = 0.071). According to locoregional recurrences, a slight benefit with postoperative radiation therapy was observed. 
Accidental astemizole overdose in young children. 6 cases of accidental astemizole poisoning in children have been reported to the Finnish Poison Information Center. The children were aged 1 year 7 months to 3 years 4 months and had taken doses of 2.5 to 16.7 mg/kg, at least twelve times that recommended. In 2 children the overdose was verified by measurement of drug concentrations. Despite measures to prevent drug absorption prolonged QTc-interval, a sign of cardiac toxicity, was found in all 5 children on whom an electrocardiogram was available for analysis, and severe ventricular arrhythmias developed in 1. Young children with accidental astemizole overdose should be carefully monitored in hospital. Similar precautions may be justified in cases of overdose with other selective H1-histamine receptor antagonists. 
Serum amyloid A (SAA3) produced by rabbit synovial fibroblasts treated with phorbol esters or interleukin 1 induces synthesis of collagenase and is neutralized with specific antiserum. We report that nucleic acid sequence analysis of a full-length cDNA clone for a rabbit serum amyloid A (SAA)-like protein has identified this protein as more closely related to SAA3 than to SAA1. SAA3 induced collagenase synthesis in rabbit synovial fibroblasts, and immune IgG raised against this SAA protein abrogated the induction. Using antisera to immunoprecipitate biosynthetically labeled 3H-SAA and 3H-collagenase from culture medium, we compared the levels of SAA and collagenase synthesized by cultures of rabbit fibroblasts at early passage (passages 3-6) with those synthesized by late passage cells (passage 16). Comparatively high levels of both proteins were produced constitutively by fibroblasts at low passage. With increasing passage, levels of both proteins drop so that by passage 16, constitutive production of SAA and collagenase was only approximately 15-20% that of passage 3 cells. Cells at low passage could be readily stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) or interleukin 1 (IL-1) to synthesize increased amounts of both SAA and collagenase. In passage 5 cells treated with PMA, we detected increased SAA mRNA by 1.5 h and collagenase mRNA by 5 h. However, older passage cells were more refractory to stimulation and required longer induction times. We suggest that SAA3 may be expressed by fibroblasts at sites of acute inflammation or injury, and that elevated levels of SAA3 may signify "activated" fibroblasts which are already producing increased amounts of collagenase constitutively and which are predisposed to further stimulation. 
Haemorrhagic colitis and haemolytic-uraemic syndrome: false positive reaction with a rotavirus latex agglutination test. A stool sample from a child with haemorrhagic colitis and haemolytic-uraemic syndrome gave a positive reaction with the RotaScreen latex agglutination test in the absence of other evidence of rotavirus infection. When this test is performed on bloody specimens, positive reactions should be interpreted with caution and confirmed by other means. 
Recurrent porokeratosis. A 63-year-old man developed linear, annular and accuminate lesions which showed the histological features of porokeratosis. The lesions cleared spontaneously, recurred several months later and ulcerated, then cleared again. The spontaneous resolution and recurrence of the lesions is a hitherto undescribed pattern of porokeratosis. 
Detection of minimal residual disease in acute lymphoblastic leukemia using immunoglobulin hypervariable region specific oligonucleotide probes. To develop a sensitive and specific assay for minimal residual disease in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), we exploited the enormous diversity of genomic sequences created by immune receptor gene rearrangements. To isolate clone-specific sequences, we first synthesized oligonucleotides that match conserved variable (VH) and joining (JH) sequences flanking the third hypervariable region (HVR3) in the rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) locus. In polymerase chain reactions (PCR), these primers were then used to amplify the intervening HVR3 segments from leukemic DNA samples. Of 12 B-lineage ALLs studied, ten generated one or more fragments of the size expected for HVR3 gene segments. Thus, this single pair of amplimers was sufficient to isolate HVR3 sequences from a majority of acute lymphoblastic leukemias. To verify that the amplified fragments originated from HVR3 alleles and to assess their diversity, we sequenced 7 PCR products derived from 6 leukemias. In addition to elements of recognized D segments, each of the 7 fragments contained novel VH-D and D-JH junctional sequences, including N nucleotides, not known to be present in the germline. Each sequence was unique, and allele-specific oligonucleotide probes hybridized only to HVR3 segments from which the probes were derived. Therefore, as anticipated, these HVR3 segments appeared to possess the diversity required to serve as clonal markers for leukemic populations. To demonstrate that these amplified HVR3 alleles could serve as the basis for a sensitive and specific assay to detect rare leukemic cells, we analyzed in detail one pre-B leukemia that had rearranged 2 IgH alleles. The HVR3 sequences were shown to be linked to rearranged JH-containing restriction fragments in digests of genomic DNA, establishing their origin in the leukemic cells. We synthesized oligonucleotides corresponding to the unique junctional sequences in the HVR3 segments. Using these novel amplimers in an allele-specific amplification and hybridization procedure, we showed that this assay can detect 10 leukemic cells in a background of 10(6) normal blood mononuclear cells. In contrast, the leukemic HVR3 sequences were not detected in extracts of normal or unrelated remission leukemic leukocytes. We conclude that the assay for specific IgH HVR3 sequences is a realistic strategy for detection of minimal residual disease in B-lineage ALL. 
Beware of malignant lymphoma masquerading as facial inflammatory processes. Considerable difficulty exists in diagnosing some sarcomas, lymphomas, and carcinomas that develop in the head and neck. Frequently these malignancies appear clinically as masquerading inflammatory disease processes. Recognition of these rare lesions usually occurs only after the inflammatory-like symptoms have failed to respond to conventional management, necessitating a more extensive evaluation and even repeated biopsies. The use of special stains, immunohistochemical studies, electron microscopy, and immunofluorescence techniques may still produce an inconclusive histopathologic diagnosis. This case report documents a rare extranodal malignant lymphoma of the right maxillary sinus that mimicked an odontogenic infection with superimposed chronic rhinosinusitis in a 19-year-old sailor. The cause of his chief complaint and presenting symptoms challenged the astuteness of clinicians, surgeons, and histopathologists on two continents and the high seas. Clinicians should maintain a high index of suspicion for malignancy when inflammatory-like lesions fail to respond to the usual appropriate management. Indications for early biopsy of suspect lesions and aggressive follow-up are emphasized. 
Treatment of primary fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome with ibuprofen and alprazolam. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study. A multidimensional evaluation of 78 patients with primary fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome (PFS) revealed no significant relationship between clinical measures of physical discomfort and psychological measures. This observation provided evidence against the notion that the pain of PFS has a psychological etiology. The same patients were randomized into 4 groups for treatment with ibuprofen and/or alprazolam in a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled pilot trial. Clinical improvement in patient rating of disease severity and in the severity of tenderness upon palpation was most apparent in the subgroup of patients who were receiving both ibuprofen and alprazolam. An 8-week, open-label study in which 52 patients received both drugs further documented improvement in outcome measures. These data indicate that treatment with a combination of ibuprofen and alprazolam can be beneficial for some patients with PFS. 
Assessment of the extent of jeopardized myocardium during acute coronary artery occlusion followed by reperfusion in man using technetium-99m isonitrile imaging. We tested the feasibility of technetium-99m methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (Tc-MIBI) imaging for delineating jeopardized myocardium during acute coronary occlusion and reperfusion in man. This new perfusion agent was injected in 25 patients during elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of a single-vessel left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery stenosis. Distinct perfusion defects were present on "occlusion" images but not on "open vessel" images obtained 20 to 24 hours later in 21 patients (84%). The extent and severity of perfusion defects were significantly smaller in patients with distal versus proximal LAD occlusions (3.4 +/- 1.2 versus 5.2 +/- 1.5 segments; p less than 0.001). The only factor that was significantly related to the presence or absence of such "ischemic" perfusion defects was the absence or presence of visible collateral vessels to the LAD (p less than 0.03). The site of occlusion, presence of wall motion abnormalities, or occlusion time did not influence the results significantly. Thus the myocardial area at risk could be visualized and quantitated by Tc-MIBI imaging even after occlusion times as short as 15 seconds, but functioning collateral vessels are capable of protecting jeopardized myocardium in this setting. 
Detection of human papillomavirus DNA on routine Papanicolaou's smears by in situ hybridization with the use of biotinylated probes. Specific human papillomavirus (HPV) types have been implicated as playing a major role in the development of cervical neoplasias. HPV DNA types usually have been identified by nucleic acid hybridization assays with the use of radiolabeled probes. These techniques are sensitive and specific but are not suitable for large-scale clinical use. To detect specific HPV DNAs simply and rapidly, in situ hybridization (ISH) with the use of biotinylated HPV DNA 6/11 and 16/18 probes was done on destained Papanicolaou's (Pap) smears from 545 patients. All smears showed koilocytotic changes. HPV DNAs were demonstrated not only in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and atypia, but also in squamous cells with minimal nuclear changes (karyomegaly) and perinuclear halos. HPV DNA 16/18 was detected in 52% of the smears with CIN I, 44% of those with CIN II and III, 19% of those with atypia, and 4% of the minimal changes. HPV DNA 6/11 was detected in 27% of the smears with CIN I, 27% of those with atypia, and 6% of the minimal changes. HPV DNAs were also detected in smears without koilocytotic changes. Thus, ISH with the use of biotinylated probes can serve as an adjunct to Pap smears in detecting HPV infection. 
Genotypic analysis of diffuse, mixed cell lymphomas. Comparison with morphologic and immunophenotypic findings. Malignant lymphoma, diffuse, mixed small and large cell type, as defined in the Working Formulation, is heterogeneous both morphologically and immunophenotypically and, in some cases, clonality may be difficult to determine. Because gene rearrangement analysis has been shown to be a sensitive method for determining clonality, the authors genotyped 20 cases and compared the results with histologic and immunophenotypic findings. Immunophenotypic studies demonstrated that all lesions were composed predominantly of T cells. In addition, in eight cases either a monoclonal B-cell population (five lesions) or an aberrant immunophenotype (two T, one B) was detected, supporting a malignant diagnosis. In seven of these eight lymphomas, genotypic analysis confirmed the presence of a population of clonal cells. One case with an abnormal T-cell phenotype was germline. In 12 cases the immunophenotypic results were uncertain (i.e., no clonal population or abnormal immunophenotype was identified). Genotypic analysis provided evidence of clonality in eight. In four cases with uncertain immunophenotypic results, a clonal population also could not be identified with the use of Southern blot analysis. Thus, the authors conclude that gene rearrangement analysis is a valuable tool in the study of diffuse mixed cell lymphomas and is complementary to immunophenotypic studies. In addition, the authors analyzed the major breakpoint region of the bcl-2 protooncogene on chromosome 18, either by Southern blot analysis and/or with the polymerase chain reaction. The authors identified the t(14;18)(q32;q21) translocation in seven B-cell lymphomas, five of which were not considered to be of follicular center cell type on the basis of morphologic findings. These results suggest that the histologic spectrum of follicular center cell lymphomas is greater than is appreciated in the literature. 
Pathological hypertrophy and cardiac interstitium. Fibrosis and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is the major risk factor associated with myocardial failure. An explanation for why a presumptive adaptation such as LVH would prove pathological has been elusive. Insights into the impairment in contractility of the hypertrophied myocardium have been sought in the biochemistry of cardiac myocyte contraction. Equally compelling is a consideration of abnormalities in myocardial structure that impair organ contractile function while preserving myocyte contractility. For example, in the LVH that accompanies hypertension, the extracellular space is frequently the site of an abnormal accumulation of fibrillar collagen. This reactive and progressive interstitial and perivascular fibrosis accounts for abnormal myocardial stiffness and ultimately ventricular dysfunction and is likely a result of cardiac fibroblast growth and enhanced collagen synthesis. The disproportionate involvement of this nonmyocyte cell, however, is not a uniform accompaniment to myocyte hypertrophy and LVH, suggesting that the growth of myocyte and nonmyocyte cells is independent of each other. This has now been demonstrated in in vivo studies of experimental hypertension in which the abnormal fibrous tissue response was found in the hypertensive, hypertrophied left ventricle as well as in the normotensive, nonhypertrophied right ventricle. These findings further suggest that a circulating substance that gained access to the common coronary circulation of the ventricles was involved. This hypothesis has been tested in various animal models in which plasma concentrations of angiotensin II and aldosterone were varied. Based on morphometric and morphological findings, it can be concluded that arterial hypertension (i.e., an elevation in coronary perfusion pressure) together with elevated circulating aldosterone are associated with cardiac fibroblast involvement and the resultant heterogeneity in tissue structure. Nonmyocyte cells of the cardiac interstitium represent an important determinant of pathological LVH. The mechanisms that invoke short- (e.g., collagen metabolism) and long-term (e.g., mitosis) responses of cardiac fibroblasts require further investigation and integration of in vitro with in vivo studies. The stage is set, however, to prevent pathological LVH resulting from myocardial fibrosis as well as to reverse it. 
Age-related complications and optimal choice of artificial heart valves in elderly patients. The use of bioprosthetic heart valves in elderly patients is presently advocated by many since implanting mechanical valves are considered to result in unacceptable rates of thromboembolism and bleeding. However the somewhat limited durability of bioprostheses has to be acknowledged since a group of elderly patients will eventually require a reoperation due to tissue failure. We have evaluated our policy to implant mechanical heart valve prostheses even in elderly patients based on the conception that we believe that anticoagulation in this group of patients can be handled with a low rate of complications. 
Needle electromyographic evaluation of patients with myofascial or fibromyalgic pain. Several past studies have evaluated the electromyographic activity of myofascial trigger points with conflicting results. This study was performed to determine whether spontaneous activity or motor unit activity was present in patients with focal myofascial pain or fibromyalgia. Using routine needle electromyographic techniques, we sampled reproducibly tender focal areas (tender points), similar tender areas with pain referral (trigger points), associated muscle bands and adjacent uninvolved musculature. Twenty-five subjects (14 females, 11 males, mean +/- SD age 43 +/- 14 years) were studied; twenty-one subjects with focal myofascial pain and four with fibromyalgia. Spontaneous fibrillatory or positive sharp wave potentials were not found in any muscle in the 25 subjects. There was no evidence of focal motor unit activity in the tender points, trigger points or associated muscle bands in either group. Motor unit recruitment was similar in all areas sampled. We conclude that no electrodiagnostic evidence of ongoing denervation or focal muscle spasm is found in association with focal myofascial pain or fibromyalgia. 
Lymphocytic hypophysitis and pulmonary sarcoidosis. Report of a case. Lymphocytic hypophysitis is one of the causes of hypopituitarism in the postpartum period. Some of these patients have been reported to have other organ-specific autoimmune diseases, and the disease is considered to be autoimmune in nature. The authors describe a unique case of lymphocytic hypophysitis in a young woman. She had hemianopia that developed three days after delivery. Computed tomography scans revealed an intrasellar mass lesion. Secretions of adrenocorticotropic hormone and growth hormone were decreased. Although no organ-specific autoantibodies were detected in her serum, OKT4-positive helper T lymphocytes were increased in peripheral blood. Pituitary biopsy at craniotomy showed typical features of lymphocytic hypophysitis. Pulmonary and eye sarcoidosis developed 11 months after the delivery. This is, to the authors' knowledge, the first case of lymphocytic hypophysitis associated with sarcoidosis in other organs. 
Deregulation of a homeobox gene, HOX11, by the t(10;14) in T cell leukemia. Molecular cloning of the t(10;14)(q24;q11) recurrent breakpoint of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia has demonstrated a transcript for the candidate gene TCL3. Characterization of this gene from chromosome segment 10q24 revealed it to be a new homeobox, HOX11. The HOX11 homeodomain is most similar to that of the murine gene Hlx and possesses a markedly glycine-rich variable region and an acidic carboxyl terminus. HOX11, while expressed in liver, was not detected in normal thymus or T cells. This lineage-restricted homeobox gene is deregulated upon translocation into the T cell receptor locus where it may act as an oncogene. 
Why don't all heavy snorers have obstructive sleep apnea? Patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and heavy snorers without apnea both show intrathoracic suction pressures during sleep that exceed their static upper airway closing pressures. Complete airway occlusion, however, occurs only in the former patient group. We hypothesized that the kinetic properties of the airflow would be different in these two types of patients because of differences in upper airway morphology. The pharyngeal computed tomography (CT) was used to measure the cross-sectional areas of the upper airways in 15 patients with OSA, 25 nonapneic heavy snorers, and 14 control subjects while they were awake. Nocturnal breathing was monitored with the static charge-sensitive bed (SCSB). The patients with OSA had a narrower airspace at the velopharyngeal (VP) level than the controls (p less than 0.01); the nonapneic snorers did not differ from the other groups. At the tongue base (TB) and the hyoid bone (HB) levels there was no difference between the OSA and the control groups, but the nonapneic snorers had narrower airways at both of these levels compared with control subjects (p less than 0.01) and at the hyoid bone level compared with the OSA group (p less than 0.05). The VP/HB ratio was the parameter that best distinguished the patients with OSA from the nonapneic snorers (lower in the OSA group, p less than 0.001). We suggest that airway collapse during sleep is favored by a narrow velopharynx associated with large hypopharynx. Some heavy snorers may not have an oropharyngeal collapse because the peak inspiratory suction pressure could already be damped down at the level of the relatively narrow hypopharyngeal airways. 
Risk factors for second cancers of the upper respiratory and digestive systems: a case-control study. A case-control study of determinants of multiple cancers of the upper respiratory and digestive system (URDS) was conducted using a patient cohort-nested design. We analyzed demographic and risk factor information and clinical variables related to the index cancer for 85 cases of multiple cancers and 170 controls matched on sub-site of the index cancer of the case and date of hospital admission. Follow-up information for the control group was used to infer the person-years-at-risk for the cohort of 1977 patients. URDS cancer patients experienced a 10.7 times (95% confidence interval: 8.5-13.2) higher risk of additional related cancers than the general population. Although controls had cancers of the same sites as those of cases and thus, strongly tobacco and alcohol-related, there were marked residual effects for these two risks factors. In addition, characteristics related to the extension and clinical course of the index cancer were strongly associated with the patient's risk of developing additional cancers. 
Reduction of rattlesnake-venom-induced myonecrosis in mice by hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) at 1, 2, and 2.75 atmospheres absolute (ATA) was used to treat rattlesnake (Crotalus atrox) venom-induced tissue damage and edema in thigh muscles of mice. Tissue damage was evaluated by double-blind histopathologic examination: tissue edema was determined by measuring tissue water content. A total of 10 intermittent exposures to oxygen over a period of 4 days at 2 and 2.75 ATA did not influence the resolution of venom-induced tissue edema, whereas tissue damage was significantly ameliorated as compared to air-treated envenomated controls. HBOT also promoted healing in the venom-injected mice as evidenced by the presence of regenerating muscle cells. It is concluded that HBOT may limit rattlesnake venom-induced myonecrosis and promote healing in a dose-response relationship without reducing venom-induced edema. 
Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation support in the high-risk cardiac patient undergoing urgent noncardiac surgery. Patients with a recent myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, sever angina, or uncorrected multivessel coronary artery disease are at increased risk of cardiac complications after major noncardiac surgery. Although invasive hemodynamic monitoring and preoperative optimization of cardiac status may lead to some reduction in the rate of perioperative cardiac events, the mortality from such events remains high. We report our experience with the use of perioperative intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in eight patients with unstable coronary syndromes or severe coronary artery disease who underwent urgent noncardiac surgery. There were no perioperative cardiac events while the intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) was in place. There were two postoperative cardiac events (non-fatal myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure) in the first postoperative week after the IABP was removed. One patient required emergent femoral thrombectomy as a result of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation and subsequently died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation should be considered as an adjunct to maintain hemodynamic stability for the high-risk cardiac patient about to undergo urgent or emergent noncardiac surgery. 
Effect of recirculation on exacerbation of ischemic vascular lesions in rat brain. Using electron microscopy, we investigated the small arteries and veins in ischemic lesions induced by occlusion of the ostium of the middle cerebral artery in 42 rats. We observed endothelial denudation in the small arteries of rats receiving occlusion for greater than 6 hours. When the occluding cylinder was removed to allow for reperfusion, however, 2 hours of occlusion was sufficient for endothelial denudation to occur. Medial smooth muscle cells seemed to be more vulnerable to ischemia than endothelial cells because ultrastructural changes in the former cells preceded endothelial denudation. Moreover, endothelial denudation definitely exacerbated vascular changes so that medial necrosis appeared to be complete beneath the denuded areas, allowing erythrocytes, platelets, and exogenous tracers to penetrate into the cytoplasm of smooth muscle cells. These arterial lesions seemed to be repaired 10 days after removal of the occluding cylinder following 2 hours of occlusion. On the other hand, small veins in the ischemic lesion did not show endothelial denudation or medial necrosis. Our study suggests that arterial changes in ischemic lesions play a role in exacerbating the brain edema caused by recirculation after ischemia. 
Cigarette smoking and flap and full-thickness graft necrosis. The association between cigarette smoking and necrosis of flaps and full-thickness grafts was analyzed in 220 patients. Review of a series of 916 flaps and full-thickness grafts revealed 44 patients in whom some degree of tissue necrosis occurred. These patients with necrosis were age and gender matched with 176 controls randomly selected from the remaining 872 patients. Current high-level smokers, that is those smoking one or more packs per day, had necrosis develop approximately three times more frequently than never smokers, low-level smokers (less than one pack per day), or former smokers (95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 8.2). Former smokers (relative risk, 1.4; 95% confidence interval, 0.6 to 3.2) and low-level smokers (relative risk, 1.1; 95% confidence interval, 0.2 to 6.1) were at a negligible increased risk for necrosis that was not significantly different from never smokers. Once tissue necrosis developed, the median percent of the visible flap or graft tissue that necrosed was approximately threefold greater among current smokers (regardless of the number of packs per day smoked) than never smokers. 
Claudication: an unusual side effect of DHE administration. DHE is effective in the treatment of acute and chronic migraine. The side effects most commonly observed are abdominal discomfort, muscle pain, diarrhea and anxiety. DHE is a dehydrogenated amino acid ergot alkaloid and, as such, causes only limited vasoconstriction; indeed, its overall effects include peripheral vasodilation. The literature is replete with reports of clinical vasospasm and claudication occurring with therapeutic doses of ergotamine. There has not been any previous description of claudication caused by DHE. This paper describes pulselessness in two patients during relatively short courses of DHE. Treatment consisted of calcium channel blockers and discontinuation of DHE. Recovery was complete. 
Antigenic differences between the endometrium of women with and without endometriosis. Serum and peritoneal fluid from 12 women with endometriosis, 4 women with uterine leiomyomata and 6 fertile women without endometriosis (controls) and serum from 4 women with adenomyosis were tested with a passive hemagglutination assay for antibodies against endometrium from all the controls, 8 patients with endometriosis and all patients with uterine leiomyomata and from implants from 8 patients with endometriosis. Serum antibody titers in patients with endometriosis or leiomyomata were significantly higher against endometrial or implant antigens from patients with endometriosis and 2 patients with leiomyomata than those against the controls' endometrium. Peritoneal fluid endometrial antibody titers failed to reflect these antigenic differences. Controls and patients with adenomyosis had low titers of endometrial antibodies in their serum or peritoneal fluid. Antigenic differences appear to exist between the endometrium of patients with endometriosis and that of controls. 
Human immunodeficiency virus infection does not alter serum transaminases and hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA in homosexual patients with chronic HBV infection. The influence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on the clinical course of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is controversial. We followed a cohort of 64 homosexual men with persistent HBs antigenemia for a median of 24 months in the hepatitis clinic of a large urban public hospital. We divided the patients into three groups according to their immune status. Group 1 (n = 13) consisted of HIV-seropositive men with evidence of immunosuppression; group 2 (n = 17), HIV-positive patients without evidence of immunosuppression; and group 3 (n = 34), HIV-negative patients. We followed serum ALT and HBV DNA determinations. There was no difference in the demographic characteristics of the three groups. Group 1 had significantly lower levels of circulating T4 lymphocytes. We found no differences in the number and severity of episodes of HBV reactivation, serum ALT levels, or HBV DNA scores among the three groups. In each group, the percentage of patients with circulating HBV DNA was the same. We conclude that HIV infection apparently does not influence the markers of liver inflammation or HBV replication in homosexual men. 
Ossification of the cervical ligamentum flavum. A case of a 61-year-old man with ossification of the cervical ligamentum flavum is reported. The ossification was located on the left side of C3-4. The symptoms improved with laminectomy and resection. Ossification of the ligamentum flavum usually occurs in the lower thoracic spine, and is rare in the cervical region. Including the present one, only eight cases have been reported to our knowledge. The clinical features and pathogenesis are discussed. 
Revision total hip arthroplasty for aseptic failure. A review of 276 cases. The results of 276 cemented revision total hip arthroplasties performed for aseptic failure between 1977 and 1986 have been reviewed. The mean time between revision and review was 75 months (range 30 to 144). Of 220 cases available for review, 159 were assessed clinically and radiographically, and 32 by postal questionnaire. Eighteen hips required further revision, 12 for loosening, two for sepsis, two for persistent pain, and one each for fracture and recurrent dislocation. A further six hips were radiologically and symptomatically loose. Pain was mild or absent in 83%. Over half were able to walk a mile or more; 70% flexed more than 70 degrees; 15% had a flexion deformity, but in only 7% was this more than 10 degrees. The mean Harris hip score was 74. Survival at five years was 95% and at 10 years, 77%. 
Acute sternal opening after cardiac surgery in children: effect on plasma atrial natriuretic peptide. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) was measured immediately before and 15 minutes after re-opening of the sternotomy and delayed sternal closure were performed to alleviate possible myocardial compression in 3 children. As acute re-opening of the sternotomy is a rare occurrence our sample size was necessarily small. ANP increased following the procedure in all 3 patients, and this was significant (p less than 0.02) when compared to plasma levels obtained from 9 children who underwent sternotomy prior to elective cardiac surgery. Following acute re-opening of the sternotomy there was an increase in median urine output and a decrease in median central venous pressure. Our results illustrate that it is atrial wall stress rather than intra-atrial pressure that determines release of ANP, and in addition suggest ANP may be a factor in the rapid clinical improvement following delayed sternal closure for atypical tamponade in children. 
Eosinophil-induced chronic active hepatitis in the idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. A 19-yr-old man had features of chronic hepatitis with piecemeal necrosis as the sole clinical feature of the idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. Liver biopsy specimens demonstrated the presence of activated eosinophils and, by immunohistochemical staining, major basic protein in areas of hepatic cell damage. The case demonstrates the clinical presentation of the idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome as chronic hepatitis and the association between eosinophil infiltration and degranulation with the presence of hepatocyte necrosis. 
Clinical follow-up and immunogenetic studies of 32 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome 31 patients with L-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS) that developed during the United States outbreak in 1989 were followed up prospectively at a university hospital outpatient rheumatology clinic for 16 to 24 months from the onset of their illness. Another patient with EMS associated with L-tryptophan in 1988 was followed up for 30 months. 93% of the 28 survivors from the 1989 cohort continue to have symptoms affecting 1-4 organ systems (median 3) and 3 have died, so the disorder produces considerable morbidity and mortality. The chronic sequelae most often associated with long-term disability are sclerodermatous skin thickening (54%), sensorimotor polyneuropathy (61%), proximal myopathy (36%), and severe episodic myalgias (64%). Thrombocytopenia developed in 1 patient. HLA-class II typing revealed a non-significant trend towards an association with HLA-DR4. Early therapy with corticosteroids did not seem to prevent the development of chronic manifestations. 
Risk factors in relation to postoperative complications and mortality after total gastrectomy in aged patients. To clarify the risk factors contributing to postoperative complications in elderly patients undergoing total gastrectomy, 84 patients with primary gastric cancer were evaluated. Twenty-seven patients were older than 65 years of age; they had much more preoperative cardiac (P = 0.00003), respiratory (P = 0.0008), and multiorgan impairment (P = 0.009) than did the control group (age less than 65 yrs). Although overall morbidities (44.4% vs. 19.2%; P = 0.01) and overall septic complication rates (33.3% vs. 12.2%; P = 0.02) were higher in aged patients, no significant differences between the two groups were found in the incidence of major surgical complications (18.5% in aged patients vs. 10.5% in control groups; P = NS), serious septic (sepsis score greater than 10) complications (18.5% vs. 7.0%; P = NS) and hospital mortalities (11.1% vs. 3.5%; P = NS). In older patients the occurrence of multiorgan impairment and malnutrition was significantly related to postoperative complication rates. These results suggest that the degree of organ impairment rather than age is predictive of postoperative difficulty and should be used in assessing preoperative risk. 
Effects of acute, graded compression on spinal nerve root function and structure. An experimental study of the pig cauda equina. A well-controlled experimental model for analysis of compression-induced functional changes of the porcine cauda equina is presented. The model allows for electrophysiologic investigation of a variety of neurophysiologic changes induced by nerve root deformation. At an acute pressure threshold of 50-75 mm Hg, changes in both afferent and efferent conduction are induced. With higher compression pressure, a differential recovery in afferent and efferent conduction is seen. 
Risk of recurrence after myomectomy. The risk of recurrence of uterine myomas was analyzed in 622 patients who underwent myomectomy between 1970 and 1984 at the First Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the University of Milan. The cumulative 10-year recurrence rate was 27%, and this increased steadily up to the end of the observation period. Differences were not observed in frequency of recurrence by age at diagnoses or by the site of the myomas at surgery. Patients with a single myoma tended to experience a lower rate, but this finding was not statistically significant. Women who gave birth to a child after myomectomy had a 10-year recurrence rate of 15%, against 30% for those who did not; this difference was statistically significant. 
Recurrence after radiotherapy for glottic carcinoma. A series of 478 patients with T1-3N0 glottic carcinoma treated by irradiation is presented. Of these patients, 320 were previously untreated, whereas 158 patients were referred for treatment of a recurrence after receiving radiotherapy elsewhere. The primary recurrence rate in the previously untreated patients was 10%. The rate was higher in T2 and T3 tumors, poorly differentiated tumors, and in patients who were in poor general condition. Over 80% of the recurrent tumors were Stage pT3 or pT4, whereas 12% of total laryngectomy specimens showed necrosis only with no evidence of tumor. The necrosis rate in previously untreated patients was 1% for T1 tumors, 4% for T2 tumors, and 3% for T3 tumors. Of all tumors, 60% were transglottic when they recurred, whereas only 29% were confined to the glottis at recurrence. Histologic diagnosis had a high sensitivity but a low specificity, indicating that a negative histologic report is unreliable. Of patients with a recurrent primary tumor, 13% were untreatable. The 5-year survival after a primary recurrence was 39%, and the main prognostic factors were sex, T stage at recurrence, and time to recurrence. Of patients available for follow-up at 5 years 49% were alive with a larynx, 5% were alive without a larynx, 13% were dead of the original cancer, and 33% had died of other causes. In those suffering a primary recurrence, the commonest cause of death was a subsequent lymph node metastasis, followed in order of frequency by stomal recurrence and recurrence in the pharyngeal remnant. The hospital mortality rate after laryngectomy was 3%, and 30% of patients undergoing laryngectomy developed a pharyngocutaneous fistula. The recurrence rate in lymph nodes was 14% at 5 years, general condition and T stage being the only significant predictors of recurrence. Only 17% of patients had small (N1) nodes by the time the diagnosis of cervical lymph node recurrence was made, and 27% of all patients were unsuitable for treatment. Host, tumor factors, and time to recurrence were not significant predictors of survival after node recurrence. The survival rate 5 years after node recurrence was 16%, and the main cause of death in those who died was uncontrolled disease in the neck. The hospital mortality after salvage neck dissection was 4.7%. 
Increased Na(+)-H+ exchange in jejunal brush border membrane vesicles of spontaneously hypertensive rats. The spontaneously hypertensive rats and their genetically matched controls, Wistar-Kyoto, serve as models of essential hypertension. The present study was undertaken to determine whether brush border membrane vesicles obtained from jejunal enterocytes of spontaneously hypertensive rats show increased Na(+)-H+ exchange as part of a generalized membrane disorder. Brush border membrane vesicles were prepared from the jejunum of adult spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats using an Mg2+/ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid precipitation method. Uptake of 22Na by these vesicles was found to be into an osmotically sensitive intravesicular space rather than mere binding. Initial Na+ uptake by brush border membrane vesicles was greater in spontaneously hypertensive rats than in Wistar-Kyoto rats (P less than 0.05). Higher total and amiloride-sensitive Na+ uptake in spontaneously hypertensive rats occurred in the presence of an outwardly directed pH gradient, and uptake became statistically similar to that of Wistar-Kyoto rats in the absence of a pH gradient. Moreover, amiloride-insensitive Na+ uptake under an outwardly directed pH gradient did not differ significantly between the two groups. The enhanced Na(+)-H+ activity in spontaneously hypertensive rats is not due to altered membrane permeability to protons, as is shown by acridine orange-quenching studies. Kinetic studies for amiloride-sensitive Na+ uptake showed a greater Vmax in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with Wistar-Kyoto rats (1.46 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.08 +/- 0.08 nmol.mg protein-1.7 s-1) but the Km values were similar in the two groups. These finding, along with similar findings previously reported in vascular smooth muscle and renal tissue of SHR, strongly suggest that an increased Na(+)-H+ exchange is related to the development of hypertension. 
Changes in lipids and lipoproteins with long-term estrogen deficiency and hormone replacement therapy. Cross-sectional data of the long-term effects of estrogens, androgens, and progestogens on lipids and lipoproteins were obtained in 556 postmenopausal women aged 24 to 85 years with follow-up for 1 to 44 years. Baseline values were obtained in 155 women from less than 1 year up to 30 years after menopause. Total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol tended to rise during the early postmenopausal years while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol did not change. Triglycerides were related to weight and were significantly different only between untreated women of normal weight (128.3 +/- 7.80 mg/dl) and hormone users weighing greater than 200 pounds (252.9 +/- 9.44 mg/dl), p less than or equal to 0.001. Although mean high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was lower with both C-21 progestogens (64.5 +/- 4.16 mg/dl) and C-19 progestogens (61.9 +/- 3.84 mg/dl), there were no statistically significant differences on comparison with levels in the unopposed estrogen users (67.0 +/- 3.94 mg/dl). Smoking significantly depressed high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in both hormone users (p less than or equal to 0.001) and untreated women (p less than or equal to 0.001). Added progestogens do not adversely affect lipids and lipoproteins over the long term when adequate dosages of estrogens are used. 
On pain mechanisms in cluster headache. Various possible pathophysiological mechanisms to explain the pain in cluster headache are reviewed. Several locations for the initiation of pain along the primary afferent pathways in cranial nerves are discussed, together with the local mechanisms that might be responsible. These include neurogenic inflammation of large cranial vessels, irritation of vascular pain fibres by compression of dilated vessels in bony canals, and irritative foci in or around cranial sensory ganglia. In particular, recent neuroanatomical and pharmacological findings on nociceptive innervation of the intracranial segment of the internal carotid artery are commented upon. The possibilities for referred pain to explain the location of pain is illustrated. Evidence for involvement of central pain modulatory systems in the pain production is discussed. Finally a synthesis is made of the probable peripheral and central pain mechanisms in the disease. 
Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring: the most useful test for evaluating noncardiac chest pain. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the diagnostic capabilities of traditional esophageal tests (manometry and provocative testing with acid and edrophonium) and 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring in identifying an esophageal cause of chest pain. DESIGN: A prospective study of 100 consecutive patients referred by cardiologists to the esophageal laboratory for evaluation of esophageal causes of chest pain. SETTING: Tertiary-referral university hospital. METHODS: Esophageal manometry performed with 10 wet swallows of water. Acid perfusion (0.1 N hydrochloric acid) and edrophonium (80 micrograms/kg intravenously) tests were placebo-controlled with a positive study defined as replication of typical chest pain. Esophageal pH monitoring identified (1) abnormal acid exposure times in the upright, supine, or combined position, and (2) correlation between symptoms and acid reflux, i.e., symptom index. The esophagus was identified as "probably" contributing to chest pain only if the acid or edrophonium test was positive or if there was a positive correlation between symptoms and acid reflux during pH monitoring. RESULTS: Esophageal manometry was abnormal in 32 patients (32%), but patients were asymptomatic during the study. The acid perfusion test was positive in 18 of 95 patients (19%), and the edrophonium test was positive in 15 of 78 patients (19%). Abnormal acid exposure times were found in 48 patients (48%). Of the 83 patients with spontaneous chest pain during 24-hour pH testing, 37 patients (46%) had abnormal reflux parameters and 50 patients (60%) had a positive symptom index (mean positive score 56%, range 6% to 100%). CONCLUSIONS: Acid reflux is a common and potentially treatable cause of noncardiac chest pain. Traditional esophageal tests usually miss this diagnosis. Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring with symptom correlation is the single best test for evaluating patients with noncardiac chest pain. 
Long-term diet modification and platelet activity. Platelet activity was assessed in a sub-sample of 56 participants in the MRC Diet and Reinfarction Trial (DART). Men whose diets contained a high ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids (a P:S ratio of greater than 0.5) showed reduced secondary platelet aggregation to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) in platelet-rich plasma (PRP), and diminished platelet aggregation to ADP in whole blood. A trend of reduced secondary platelet aggregation to ADP with increasing dietary eicosapentaenoic acid was noted, but this was not statistically significant. The results of this study and the MRC Diet and Reinfarction Trial suggest a mediatory role for platelet activity in the relationship between diet and ischaemic heart disease. 
An immunohistochemical study of sarcomatoid liver carcinomas. Six cases of primary hepatic carcinomas with a significant amount of sarcomatoid elements were examined by using immunohistochemical stainings. Four of the six cases were associated with ordinary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one with cholangiocellular carcinoma (CCC), and one with mixed HCC and CCC. Alpha-fetoprotein and alpha-1-antitrypsin were negative in sarcomatoid cells of all cases; vimentin stained positively in sarcomatoid tumor cells in two of the six cases; and cytokeratin (CK8) was detected in five cases. The CK8 was not detected in tumor cells of two cases of hepatic angiosarcoma, two of metastatic leiomyosarcomas, and one of metastatic fibrosarcoma, although vimentin stained positively in all these true sarcomas. It was concluded that sarcomatoid dedifferentiation of liver carcinomas might derive from both HCC and CCC. In addition CK8 might be an excellent marker to make a differential diagnosis of sarcomatoid cancers from true metastatic or primary sarcomas of the liver. 
Radiologic evaluation of esophageal motility: results in 170 patients with chest pain. The role of radiologic evaluation of esophageal motility in patients with chest pain has been studied rarely. Consequently, we compared the results of radiologic and manometric examinations of the esophagus in 170 patients (106 women, 64 men; mean age, 53 years) with chest pain. Manometry, used as the standard, was normal in 114 (67%) patients, and showed the following abnormal diagnoses in the remaining 56 (33%): nonspecific esophageal motility disorder in 27 (48%), nutcracker esophagus in 16 (29%), diffuse esophageal spasm in 11 (20%), and achalasia in two (4%). Radiologic specificity was 93% (106/114) and overall sensitivity only 36% (20/56). Sensitivity increased to 50% by excluding those with nutcracker esophagus, a purely manometric diagnosis. Of the 20 patients in whom nonspecific esophageal motility disorder and diffuse esophageal spasm were undetected on radiologic examination, minimal manometric criteria for diagnosis were available in 18. Our results show that radiologic recognition of normal esophageal peristalsis is excellent. However, the vast majority of patients with chest pain do not appear to have abnormal esophageal motility on radiologic evaluation. 
Relapsing transverse myelitis. Acute transverse myelitis is a monophasic disorder, the recurrence of which raises the question of multiple sclerosis (MS) or other multifocal CNS disease. We now report three patients with a previously undescribed syndrome of relapsing isolated acute transverse myelitis. Each had two to five attacks over periods of 3 to 8 years, characterized by ascending paresthesias, urinary retention, sensory loss with a thoracic or cervical level, paraparesis, hyperreflexia, and bilateral Babinski signs. MRI demonstrated areas of increased signal intensity on T2- and proton density-weighted scans and decreased signal intensity on T1-weighed scans of the cervical or thoracic spinal cord consistent with an inflammatory or demyelinating process. All patients had normal complete myelograms, oligoclonal IgG bands were consistently absent from the cerebrospinal fluid, cranial MRIs were normal, and there was no other clinical or laboratory evidence of MS, collagen-vascular disease, or active viral infection. They were treated with high doses of intravenous corticosteroids, stabilized between episodes, and had partial or complete recovery. The recognition of these three patients at a single medical center in a 1-year period suggests that relapses of acute transverse myelitis may not be rare. 
Transfer from ophthalmology to another service is a marker of high risk medical events. Of 3632 consecutive admissions to the Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute between July 1, 1987 and June 30, 1989, 27 patients required transfer to a medical or surgical service (0.74%). The major reasons for transfer included acute or decompensated cardiac disease (26%), poorly controlled diabetes mellitus (19%), acute renal failure (11%), coagulopathy, stroke, and hypertension (7% each). Only one transfer was a direct result of an anesthesia complication. The highest rates of transfers were associated with orbital (4.3%), enucleation/evisceration (3.1%), and glaucoma (2.3%) surgeries, while vitreoretinal surgery had the lowest rate of transfer (0.3%). Most of the transfers of patients with orbital disease were for management of related problems such as sinusitis or increased intracranial pressure. 
New pathologic observations in juvenile onset parkinsonism with dystonia. A patient with hereditary juvenile onset parkinsonism with dystonia died at age 39. There were Lewy bodies and regionally selective neuronal damage in the substantia nigra pars compacta. These changes closely resemble those seen in Parkinson's disease, and emphasize the selective vulnerability of the ventral tier of the pars compacta in these degenerations. 
Kindling as a model of drug-resistant partial epilepsy: selection of phenytoin-resistant and nonresistant rats. Complex partial seizures comprise the major uncontrolled seizure type in adult patients with epilepsy. Any improvement of our understanding of the mechanisms through which these seizures are often refractory to antiepileptic drugs is therefore of considerable importance. By examining the effects of the anti-epileptic drug phenytoin in a large group of kindled rats, a widely used model of complex partial seizures, animals with different sensitivity to this drug were selected. Using determination of the focal seizure threshold for evaluation of phenytoin's anticonvulsant effect, most animals (about 60%) showed variable effects in response to phenytoin. However, about 20% of the animals ("phenytoin nonresponders") showed no increase in their focal seizure threshold at repeated test trials with phenytoin, and 20% ("phenytoin responders") exhibited reproducible increases in focal seizure threshold after injection of phenytoin. Phenytoin responders and nonresponders thus selected were used for subsequent experiments. The different response of focal seizures to phenytoin was not related to differences in pharmacokinetics or location of the stimulating electrode. Although phenytoin reproducibly increased the threshold for induction of afterdischarges in responders, it did not alter severity or duration of the elicited seizure response. In contrast to phenytoin, carbamazepine induced increases in focal seizure threshold in all kindled rats. Duration of seizures and afterdischarges were significantly reduced by carbamazepine in phenytoin responders, but not in nonresponders, although plasma levels of carbamazepine were the same in both groups. The difference in response of kindled rats to phenytoin was restricted to kindled seizures, because phenytoin induced the same anticonvulsant effect on the threshold for generalized tonic electroconvulsions (determined via transauricular electrodes) in both groups of kindled rats. 
Xanthoma disseminatum: a case with extensive mucous membrane involvement. A 37-year-old man had red or brownish papules on his face, chest, and groin, where they coalesced into plaques. Endoscopic examination revealed the presence of small xanthomatous papules on the mucous membrane of the stomach. A biopsy specimen revealed a dense infiltrate of histiocytes, foam cells, Touton giant cells, and inflammatory cells. The diagnosis of non-X histiocytosis was confirmed by immunohistochemical studies of the infiltrate. 
Rhabdomyolysis and cutaneous necrosis following intravenous vasopressin infusion. A continuous IV infusion of vasopressin was administrated to a patient with cirrhosis of the liver and acute gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices. In the first 24 hours, the patient developed rhabdomyolysis and cutaneous necrosis. Stopping vasopressin infusion resulted in relief of these lesions. The rarity of these complications suggests an idiosyncratic reaction of susceptible individuals that may be related to previous vascular disease or a failure in baroreceptor regulation. 
Detection of ACTH-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors: MR imaging vs CT. Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors tend to occur in the middle third of the lung adjacent to pulmonary vessels. Because they cause signs and symptoms when quite small (by virtue of their ACTH production), they may not be detected by CT. MR imaging was performed in 10 consecutive patients with surgically proved ACTH-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors in order to test the ability of MR to clarify equivocal or indeterminate findings on CT examinations. All bronchial carcinoid tumors had high signal intensity on T2-weighted and short-inversion-time inversion-recovery images, facilitating their distinction from pulmonary vasculature. In eight patients, the CT and MR images were equivalent in the detection of bronchial carcinoid tumors. In two patients, MR showed tumors in the middle third of the lung that were equivocal on CT. MR imaging may distinguish small bronchial carcinoid tumors from adjacent pulmonary vessels in the central third of the lung at a time when the CT study is nondiagnostic or equivocal. 
The hemodynamic response to hemorrhage in tumor-bearing animals. Tumor-bearing rats submitted to hypovolemia have higher mortality rates than have non-tumor-bearing control rats. To determine the mechanisms underlying this sensitivity to hemorrhage, we studied Fischer-344 rats with subcutaneous methylcholanthrene-induced sarcoma (tumor burden, 10% body weight) to determine hematologic and blood volume alterations. Subsequently we used the same animal model in an unanesthetized condition to determine the sensitivity to hemorrhage and resuscitation, as well as vascular responsiveness to vasoactive agents. The rats were separated into two groups: control and tumor-bearing rats (TBR). Sensitivity to hemorrhage and resuscitation was determined by bleeding the conscious rats (15 ml/kg) and resuscitating them with 0.9% NaCl (45 ml/kg). Vascular responsiveness was determined after injection of varying doses of phenylephrine and nitroglycerin, with continuous measurement of mean arterial pressure (MAP). Rate of increase of MAP, maximum MAP, relative increase in MAP (maximum minus baseline), rate of recovery toward baseline MAP, and duration of the response were determined. There was a significant anemia in TBR, but blood volume was similar in both groups. Baseline MAP was significantly higher in control rats (125.3 +/- 8.1 mm Hg) compared with TBR (107.5 +/- 6.0 mm Hg). After hemorrhage, MAP in TBR reached significantly lower levels than in control rats. In addition, after saline resuscitation, MAP in TBR did not return to baseline levels, whereas MAP in control rats returned to prehemorrhage MAP. With nitroglycerin, MAP decreased to lower levels in TBR than in control rats. With phenylephrine, the maximum MAP reached was significantly higher, and the response to phenylephrine was maintained for a significantly longer period in control rats compared with TBR. We conclude that TBR are more sensitive to hypovolemic events in association with decreased oxygen-carrying capacity, profound hypotension, and altered overall vascular responsiveness to sympathetic stimuli. 
Effect of infarct location on myocardial salvage assessed by technetium-99m isonitrile. To investigate the influence of infarct location on myocardial salvage, technetium-99m isonitrile was injected into 43 patients with a first myocardial infarction before early reperfusion therapy. Primary coronary angioplasty was performed in 22 patients and successful intravenous thrombolytic therapy was given to 15 patients, both within 6 h of the onset of chest pain. Patency of the infarct-related artery was confirmed by angiography in all 37 patients. In the remaining six patients (three with and three without early thrombolytic therapy) the infarct-related artery remained occluded. Single photon emission computed tomography was performed within 6 h of the administration of technetium-99m isonitrile and repeated at the time of hospital discharge. Radionuclide ejection fraction at discharge was significantly lower for patients with anterior infarction (0.41 +/- 0.12) than for those with inferior infarction (0.56 +/- 0.09, p less than 0.001). Early perfusion defect size, a measure of myocardium at risk, was greater in patients with anterior than in those with inferior infarction (52 +/- 9% vs. 18 +/- 10% of the left ventricle, p = 0.0001) as was final defect size (30 +/- 20% vs. 9 +/- 8%, p less than 0.01). The change in myocardial perfusion, an estimate of myocardial salvage, was also greater in patients with anterior infarction (24 +/- 16% vs. 10 +/- 7%, p less than 0.01). However, the proportion of jeopardized myocardium salvaged (salvage index) was not significantly different between patients with anterior or inferior infarction (0.49 +/- 0.34 vs. 0.59 +/- 0.35, p = NS). 
Comparative clinical trial of standard operative tracheostomy with percutaneous tracheostomy. OBJECTIVE: To compare percutaneous tracheostomy with conventional operative tracheostomy. DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial. SETTING: The medical and surgical critical care units of a large, tertiary-care, private hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-five male and 21 female translaryngeally intubated patients with respiratory failure, in whom tracheostomy was indicated on clinical grounds, were randomly assigned to one of two groups. INTERVENTIONS: The 24 patients in group 1 underwent conventional operative tracheostomy, and the 22 patients in group 2 underwent percutaneous tracheostomy. One patient in group 2 required tracheostomy on three separate occasions during a prolonged hospital stay. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients were examined daily throughout their hospital stays for adverse events related to the tracheostomy. In all patients who survived until decannulation, plain tomography of the trachea was performed within 3 days of decannulation. Repeat physical and tomographic examinations were performed 6 and 12 wks later. Fifty-eight percent (14/24) of the operative tracheostomies were associated with at least one complication, compared with 25% (6/24) of the percutaneous tracheostomies (p less than .05, 95% confidence interval 7% to 59%). Predecannulation problems were more frequent in group 1 patients than in group 2 (46% vs. 13%, respectively; p less than .01, 95% confidence interval 9% to 57%), as were later sequelae (88% vs. 27%; p less than .05, confidence interval 26% to 96%) in survivors. Group 1 patients were more likely to have multiple complications, and their complications tended to be more serious. CONCLUSION: In this study, percutaneous tracheostomy appeared to be superior to the conventional operation. 
Generalized pustulation as a manifestation of the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome. BACKGROUND.-The anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome is characterized by the development of fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and hepatitis, and is associated with leukocytosis and eosinophilia. This article describes the unusual development of a follicular pustular eruption in two patients as a manifestation of this syndrome. OBSERVATIONS.-This pustular eruption most commonly develops on the face and scalp but may subsequently become generalized. While cultures of the pustules are negative, biopsy specimens reveal a dilated follicular infundibulum filled with neutrophils. Recognition of cutaneous pustulation as a potential manifestation of this syndrome is important, as a generalized pustular eruption developing in a febrile patient can easily be confused with an infectious process. CONCLUSIONS.-The anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome may present with a follicular pustular eruption rather than the more commonly associated macular or papular rash or erythroderma. The three most commonly used anticonvulsants, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and carbamazepine, can each produce an identical hypersensitivity reaction. In addition, in vitro testing has demonstrated that approximately 80% of patients tested to all three medications had positive reactions to each. Furthermore, with in vitro testing researchers are able to predict which anticonvulsants are safe to use, thereby allowing for prospective individualization of therapy. However, this technology is not yet available for widespread use. 
Solid and cystic pancreatic tumors. Clinical, histochemical, and electron microscopic features in ten cases. Ten cases of the rare solid and cystic pancreatic tumors are presented. All except one occurred in young women (mean age, 25 +/- 9.2 years). The large neoplasms were evenly distributed across the pancreas; in one case, metastasis occurred; all other cases were free from disease after complete resection. Histologic hallmarks of solid and cystic neoplasms were papillary growth, large intracytoplasmic granules, and immunoreactivity with alpha 1-antitrypsin, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, phospholipase A2, and neuroendocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase [NSE], synaptophysin). This suggests both endocrine as well as exocrine differentiation. 
Transesophageal echocardiography. Preliminary results in patients with traumatic aortic rupture. Eleven patients with blunt chest trauma at risk for traumatic aortic rupture underwent transesophageal echocardiography to image the descending aorta. Diagnoses were compared with the results of radiographic studies. Ten of the 11 patients underwent arch aortography, with positive results in six cases. In one patient, the results of a computed tomographic scan were interpreted as consistent with aortic rupture. The results of transesophageal echocardiography were positive for ruptured descending aorta in three of six patients with positive aortographic findings, and negative in eight patients. All three patients with positive findings had the diagnosis of ruptured descending aorta confirmed at surgery. The remaining eight patients demonstrated no aortic morbidity. These preliminary findings suggest that transesophageal echocardiography is a useful technique for the diagnosis of ruptured descending aorta following blunt chest trauma. 
Allergic fungal sinusitis: problems in diagnosis and treatment. Although first described in 1983, allergic Aspergillus sinusitis (AAS) has yet to gain wide recognition among otolaryngologists and pathologists. We have treated three patients with a history of asthma, nasal polyposis, and recurrent pansinusitis who fit the description of allergic Aspergillus sinusitis. Histopathologically, mucinous material with abundant eosinophils and Charcot-Leyden crystals ("allergic mucin") is interspersed with fungal hyphae. Immunologic characteristics include serum total immunoglobulin E (IgE) elevation, increased RAST classes, and cutaneous reactivity to molds. A retrospective analysis of the histopathology of 82 patients with chronic sinusitis was also undertaken. Eleven additional patients with classic allergic mucin were identified, but were found to be without evidence of fungal elements. The clinical features of all 14 patients are reviewed revealing the spectrum of disease. The difficulties of diagnosis and a therapeutic protocol which includes wide local debridement and postoperative use of systemic steroids are discussed. 
The use of albumin in clinical practice. The use of albumin in the clinical setting continues to generate controversy. Periodic shortages and the high cost of albumin have compelled many hospitals to develop guidelines regarding albumin administration. Our purpose is to review the human studies involving albumin. Particular emphasis will be placed on comparative trials involving albumin and the less expensive crystalloid solutions. It is hoped that this review will assist the clinician in making judgements concerning the appropriate use of albumin. 
Intraoperative monitoring of facial nerve function in cerebellopontine angle surgery. Facial nerve paralysis associated with cerebellopontine angle surgery has been reported to range up to 26% in a recent series. Various methods of intraoperatively monitoring the facial nerve have been developed to reduce the incidence of facial paralysis. We report our experience with an intraoperative monitoring technique using intramuscular EMG electrodes to detect subclinical electrical responses that were amplified and made audible to the operating surgeon after gating stimulus artifacts. A 3.6% incidence of facial paralysis in 111 consecutive cases with this intraoperative monitoring method compared with 14.5% in 207 previously unmonitored cases indicates significant reduction of this complication in cerebellopontine angle surgery (p less than 0.001). Along with this reduction in facial paralysis, an increase in the percentage of partial facial paresis was observed in the monitored group (p less than 0.05). The percentage of those with intact facial function was similar in the monitored (82.0%) and unmonitored groups (78.3%). 
Surgical management of the conal (supracristal) ventricular septal defect. Surgical management of the conal (supracristal) ventricular septal defect differs significantly from the management of the perimembranous (infracristal) ventricular septal defect. The absence of a portion of the conal septum can lead to prolapse of the right cusp of the aortic valve, which predisposes these patients to aortic insufficiency. Between January 1980 and December 1989, 36 children with conal ventricular septal defect underwent intracardiac repair. Diagnosis was by echocardiography, cardiac catheterization, and intraoperative exploration. Preoperative evaluation showed that 26 patients (72%) had aortic valve prolapse and 16 (44%) had aortic insufficiency. Pulmonary-to-systemic flow ratios ranged from 1:1 to 3.5:1 (mean 2.0:1.0). Ten patients (27%) were believed to have clinical congestive heart failure. Age at the time of operation ranged from 2 weeks to 18 years (mean 5.5 years). Operative exposure was through the pulmonary artery (26), aorta (4), right ventricle (3), or right atrium (3). Simultaneous aortic valve suspension for aortic insufficiency was performed in four patients. Operative survival was 100%. Follow-up is complete in all patients and ranges from 0.5 to 9 years (mean 4.3 years). All patients are in normal sinus rhythm. No residual ventricular septal defects have been identified. Twenty-three of 36 patients (64%) have no evidence of aortic insufficiency; 12 of 36 (33%) have trivial or mild aortic insufficiency. One patient with initial severe aortic insufficiency underwent repeat aortic valvuloplasty 3 years after ventricular septal defect closure and aortic valve suspension. No patients have required aortic valve replacement. Surgical management of the conal ventricular septal defect differs from that of the perimembranous ventricular septal defect in two critical aspects. The operative approach should be through the pulmonary artery. This allows the best exposure of the remaining conal septum and the pulmonary and aortic valve leaflets, facilitating closure of the defect without injury to the valves or conduction system. Conal ventricular septal defects should undergo early closure, regardless of shunt volume, to prevent progressive aortic insufficiency. 
Characteristics and outcomes of hospitalized older patients who develop hypocholesterolemia. OBJECTIVES: This research project was undertaken to determine the clinical characteristics, lipoprotein abnormalities, and outcomes of older hospitalized patients who develop hypocholesterolemia. METHODS: The project had two parts: (1) a retrospective, case-control study of 50 hospitalized patients greater than or equal to 65 years old whose serum cholesterol was normal on admission (greater than or equal to 160 mg/dL) and fell to less than or equal to 120 mg/dL during hospitalization; (2) a laboratory study of lipoproteins in 17 hospitalized patients greater than or equal to 65 years old whose cholesterol was normal on admission but fell to less than or equal to 120 mg/dL during hospitalization. RESULTS: Case-control Study--Nine percent of patients greater than or equal to 65 years old developed hypocholesterolemia while in the hospital, and these patients were more likely than controls to have undergone surgery and to have nothing by mouth for 5 days or longer. Cases had a longer length of stay, more complications, and were slightly more likely to die in the hospital than controls. LABORATORY STUDY--Hypocholesterolemic patients had low concentrations of all lipoproteins (VLDL, LDL, HDL), and the LDL and HDL were enriched in triglyceride and depleted of cholesterol ester. CONCLUSION: Acquired hypocholesterolemia is a common finding in hospitalized older patients and is associated with poor outcomes. Patients who became hypocholesterolemic in the hospital had both a low concentration of lipoprotein particles and abnormalities in lipoprotein particle composition. 
Clinical correlates of abnormal sensitivity to intraesophageal balloon distension. Sixty-five patients with esophageal complaints were studied to determine clinical associations with abnormal sensitivity to intraesophageal balloon distension (esophageal sensory dysfunction). Associations were examined in four categories: motility, esophageal symptoms, recent psychological symptoms, and general clinical features. A positive response to balloon distension (pain with less than or equal to 8 ml volume) was found in 29 (45%) of the subjects. This response was associated with specific findings in each category except recent psychological symptoms. A multiple logistic regression analysis indicated that an increased frequency of multipeaked waves on motility testing, presence of dysphagia, and shorter height of the subject each had an independent association with positive response to balloon distension (P less than or equal to 0.05 for each). Further comparison of subjects with sensory dysfunction, motor dysfunction, or both (sensorimotor dysfunction) indicated that subjects with the combined disorder appeared more symptomatic than those with either finding alone. These observations indicate that: (1) esophageal motor and sensory dysfunction are partially associated, but both contribute to the symptomatic state; (2) dysphagia may be representative of sensory dysfunction in some cases; and (3) subject height should be taken into consideration when interpreting balloon distension results. 
Rate and incidence of capsular contracture: a comparison of smooth and textured silicone double-lumen breast prostheses. Capsular contracture results in dissatisfaction and deformity among the 2 million women who have had silicone implants. The literature describes contracture rates as high as 74 percent. I present a comparison of rates and incidences of contracture in patients augmented with smooth and textured double-lumen silicone implants. A total of 165 "smooth" and 63 "textured" implant patients were included in this study, which spans 12 years, 1978-1990. All patients underwent bilateral aesthetic augmentation performed by the same surgeon. Of the 165 smooth implant patients, 74 (44.8 percent) experienced contractures requiring treatment. Of the 63 textured implant patients, 3 (4.8 percent) previous contracture patients experienced sudden fibrosis within 3 months. All others remained soft. It appears that deeply textured silicone surfaces delay or decrease the rate and incidence of clinical capsular contracture, at least for 2 years. 
Effects of enoximone on exercise tolerance in patients with mild to moderate heart failure. To evaluate the efficacy of enoximone on exercise tolerance in patients with mild to moderate heart failure, 33 patients underwent cardiopulmonary exercise tests before and 3 hours after placebo or after receiving 25 or 100 mg of enoximone administered randomly in a double-blind manner. The electrocardiogram was monitored and blood pressure measured every minute throughout cycle ergometer exercise testing with a ramp protocol in which the work rate increased 1 W every 6 seconds after a 4-minute 20-W warm-up. Minute ventilation, oxygen uptake (VO2), and carbon dioxide output were measured every 10 seconds in order to determine anaerobic threshold (AT) and peak VO2. Five patients were excluded from evaluation before breaking the double-blind key because of insufficient data. Heart rate increased and systolic blood pressure decreased throughout the testing only in the group taking 100 mg (n = 10). Significant increases in AT (14.4 to 16.2 ml/min/kg) and peak VO2 (20.8 to 22.9 ml/min/kg) were observed in the group taking 100 mg. The increases in AT showed a dose response, namely +0.7% in the placebo (n = 9), +6.9% in the 25-mg (n = 9) and 12.5% in the 100-mg group. The work rates at the AT point increased in the 25- and 100-mg groups. These results indicate that a single oral administration of enoximone improves exercise tolerance in patients with mild to moderate heart failure. 
Leg paresthesias induced by magnetic brain stimulation in patients with thoracic spinal cord injury. We studied the induction of leg paresthesias by magnetic stimulation of the brain in seven patients with thoracic T9-12 spinal cord injury and in four normal volunteers by delivering transcranial magnetic stimulation over scalp positions 1 cm apart with a Cadwell MES-10 magnetic stimulator and an 8-shaped magnetic coil at 100% stimulus intensity. We asked subjects to report sensations felt after each stimulus. In all normal subjects, magnetic stimulation evoked sensations described as tingling or a wave descending along the leg, usually accompanied by EMG responses in leg muscles. In three of the seven patients, stimulation evoked sensations of tingling, numbness, touch, or a wave descending along the leg, lasting up to 10 seconds and referred to different parts of the legs and toes. In the patients, sensations were felt more distally the closer the site of stimulation was to the midline. Patients with leg paresthesias had less motor reorganization in abdominal muscles than those without paresthesias. These findings suggest that portions of the cortical representation areas for body parts deafferented by a complete spinal cord injury can remain related to those body parts for up to several years. A central origin of these paresthesias is probable. 
Monoclonal anti-T cell (T12) antibody treatment of graft-versus-host disease in severe combined immunodeficiency: targeting of antibody and activation of complement on CD8+ cytotoxic T cell surfaces. We report a 6-month-old male child with severe combined immunodeficiency who received an unirradiated blood transfusion and developed acute, severe graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), for which he received monoclonal anti-T cell (anti-T12) antibody treatment. The GVHD was manifested by a confluent maculopapular rash and increased liver function tests and was documented by skin biopsy. Separation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells forming rosettes with sheep red blood cells revealed engrafted T cells having the nonrelated HLA type of the blood donor. The patient was treated with intravenous monoclonal anti-T12 in a dose of 0.3 mg/kg/day for 5 days. An in vivo effect of the anti-T12 was suggested by clinical improvement of his skin rash and return of the liver transaminases to the normal range. Moreover, human complement components, activated C3 and C4, were detected by fluorescence microscopy on the surfaces of the engrafted CD8+ lymphocytes on the skin biopsy specimens. Also, with a biotin-avadin assay, the presence of the anti-T12 was detected on these same cells. These studies document not only the in vivo targeting of monoclonal anti-T12 antibody to cytotoxic T cells producing GVHD but also the activation of complement on these cells. 
Pachymeningitis associated with a pulmonary nodule. The authors report a case of hypertrophic pachymeningitis, a rare cause of spinal cord compression. In this patient, dural inflammation was associated with a histologically identical pulmonary lesion. Such an association has not been described previously and supports the hypothesis that this disease is related to other connective tissue disorders. 
Neuropsychiatric side effects after the use of mefloquine. This study describes neuropsychiatric side effects in patients after treatment with mefloquine. Reactions consisted mainly of seizures, acute psychoses, anxiety neurosis, and major disturbances of sleep-wake rhythm. Side effects occurred after both therapeutic and prophylactic intake and were graded from moderate to severe. In a risk analysis of neuropsychiatric side effects in Germany, it is estimated that one of 8,000 mefloquine users suffers from such reactions. The incidence calculation revealed that one of 215 therapeutic users had reactions, compared with one of 13,000 in the prophylaxis group, making the risk of neuropsychiatric reactions after mefloquine treatment 60 times higher than after prophylaxis. Therefore, certain limitations for malaria prophylaxis and treatment with mefloquine are recommended. 
Recurrent severe traumatic brain injury. Series of six cases. Six of 141 persons treated for severe traumatic brain injury at the Medical College of Virginia were found to have a history of similar previous injury. These cases are presented in the context of the phenomenon of recurrent severe traumatic brain injury, which has received no systematic attention in epidemiologic studies of trauma. 
Paravermal infarct and isolated cerebellar dysarthria. A patient with isolated cerebellar dysarthria is reported. Computed tomography showed a small infarct in the left paravermal zone of the rostal cerebellum (lobulus simplex and semilunaris superior) in the territory of the medial branch of the superior cerebellar artery. This patient demonstrates the important role of this area of cerebellum in the control of voice. 
Muscle mitochondrial DNA in encephalomyopathy and ragged red fibres: a Southern blot analysis and literature review. Various mitochondrial DNA abnormalities have been described in patients with encephalomyopathies. We performed Southern blot analysis of skeletal muscle mitochondrial DNA in nine adult patients with clinical features and ragged red fibres suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction. Two patients with encephalomyopathy and two with the MERRF syndrome (myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibres) had the normal PvuII restriction pattern of muscle mitochondrial DNA. In contrast, mitochondrial DNA deletion was observed in two of six patients with ophthalmoplegia. One suffered from typical Kearns-Sayre syndrome and the other from isolated external ophthalmoplegia. None of these patients had affected relatives. The detection of mitochondrial DNA deletion in external ophthalmoplegia and their site and size support previously reported data. 
Results of surgery for duodenal ulcer: assessment by patients. A questionnaire was administered to 224 patients who had undergone 246 operations for duodenal ulcer to see how well this correlated with Visick grading and to provide insight into the patients' feelings about the results of their surgery. The patients were divided into three groups by Visick grade: good (grade I, n = 70), satisfactory (grades II and IIIs, n = 104) and poor (grades IIIu and IV, n = 72). The distribution of questionnaire responses in each group was statistically different (P less than 0.01). Dividing the questionnaire responses into three corresponding groups, 72 per cent of patients assigned themselves to the same group as their Visick grade. Three observations were made regarding the Visick system: recurrent ulceration is over-scored and should be included only if symptomatic; grading should acknowledge a wider range of symptoms related to ulcer disease and its treatment; only three grades are necessary. 
Decreased plasticity of glucoregulatory responses in aged rats: effects of chronic stress. These experiments were conducted to determine the effects of age and chronic stress on the ability of rats to attenuate stimulus-induced glucose and insulin responses during repeated exposure to a mild stressor. Young (5-month) and old (21-month) Fischer 344 male rats were either exposed to intermittent sessions of an escapable footshock stress for 3 months, or to no chronic stress. Afterwards, blood samples were obtained from each rat before, during, and after the first and fourth exposure to a novel motion stimulus. Between the first and the fourth exposure to the motion stimulus a pronounced attenuation of glucose and insulin responses was seen in both groups of young rats, and in old chronically stressed rats, but not in old control animals. Thus, it appears that the adverse effects of aging on plasticity of glucoregulatory response processes were significantly diminished by exposure of the animals to periodic challenges from their external environment. 
Lyme neuroborreliosis: a new sensitive diagnostic assay for intrathecal synthesis of Borrelia burgdorferi--specific immunoglobulin G, A, and M. An antibody capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was developed to measure directly intrathecal immunoglobulin (Ig) G, A, and M synthesis specific for Borrelia burgdorferi. Purified, biotin-avidin-peroxidase-labeled B. burgdorferi flagella was used as test antigen. Paired cerebrospinal fluid and serum specimens from 100 patients with clinically definite neuroborreliosis and 35 control subjects with neurological diseases were examined. Significant B. burgdorferi-specific intrathecal IgG, A, and M production was found in 89%, 65% and 67% of patients with neuroborreliosis. Local synthesis of specific IgA was only seen in patients with significant local IgG synthesis. Antibody production in cerebrospinal fluid began by 2 weeks after onset of neurological symptoms. At the end of the second week specific IgM, IgG, or both, was detected in 88% of the patients. Specific IgG synthesis was present in all patients by 6 weeks after onset. Specific local IgM synthesis usually disappeared by 3 to 6 months after therapy, whereas specific IgG synthesis persisted after recovery. Even in patients with a severely altered blood-brain barrier, the assay discriminated between intrathecal antibody synthesis and antibody leakage from serum. The assay makes diagnostic measurement of B. burgdorferi-specific intrathecal antibody synthesis reliable, rapid, and accessible as a routine serological test. 
Dynamic acquisition with a three-headed SPECT system: application to technetium 99m-SQ30217 myocardial imaging. A method for SPECT data acquisition, "continuous repetitive rotation acquisition," was developed with a high-sensitivity three-headed SPECT system. The method was applied to the dynamic imaging of 99mTc-SQ30217, a new myocardial imaging agent. After acquisition and reconstruction of SPECT data every minute, projection images at arbitrary intervals were used for tomographic reconstruction to determine the best timing of SPECT imaging in 99mTc-SQ30217. Based on a comparison of several possible acquisition intervals, SPECT data acquisition within 9 min after injection is recommended because of high myocardial uptake (myocardium-to-lung ratio, 2.83 +/- 0.42 (mean +/- s.e.m.) at 3-6 min) and relatively low hepatic uptake (myocardium-to-liver ratio, 0.85 +/- 0.13 at 3-6 min). The rate constant of the clearance of 99mTc-SQ30217 from the myocardium obtained by SPECT was: k1 = 0.249 +/- 0.050 per min (average half-life = 2.8 min) and k2 = 0.012 +/- 0.004/min (average half-life = 58 min). The continuous repetitive rotation acquisition SPECT study appears useful for imaging SQ30217 with its rapidly changing myocardial distribution. 
Acute illness in maple syrup urine disease: dynamics of protein metabolism and implications for management. Acute metabolic decompensation in maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) during otherwise minor illnesses has generally been presumed to result from massive release of leucine from protein catabolism. A stable isotope method based on the continuous infusion of (2H5)phenylalanine was used to measure protein metabolism in vivo in two children with MSUD during acute illness and when well. Net protein catabolism was greater in the unwell state (0.51 and 0.40 gm/kg per 24 hours in each child, respectively) than in the basal state (0.34 and 0.32). This rate of release of leucine from protein is compatible only with a slow (several days) rather than a dramatic rise in plasma leucine levels during acute illness in MSUD. Poor oral intake leading to a relative increase in time spent in the fasting state appears to be a more important determinant of increasing leucine levels than the catabolic effect of infection in itself. These factors suggested that branched-chain amino acid restriction should be commenced at the start of minor illness in children with MSUD, and that intake of other nutrients should be maintained or increased throughout the illness. A regimen based on these concepts was used during nine episodes of minor illness in two children with MSUD. Plasma branched-chain amino acid levels remained acceptable (less than 700 mumol/L) throughout each of these episodes. Dietary supplementation of this type may reduce the risk of metabolic decompensation during acute illnesses in children with MSUD. 
Unrecognized stenosis by angiography documented by intravascular ultrasound imaging. This report documents how intravascular ultrasound imaging was used to diagnose a short "napkin-ring" stenosis that was missed by coronary angiography. Intravascular ultrasound revealed a lumen of 2.6 x 2.5 mm in diameter and 5.0 mm2 in cross-sectional area, with a residual atheroma that occluded 63% of available cross-sectional area at the stenosis. 
Failure of dithiothreitol and pronase to reveal a false-positive cryptococcal antigen determination in cerebrospinal fluid. A patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and a serum rheumatoid factor (RF) of 1:1,280 had a positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) latex agglutination test (LAT) for cryptococcal antigen, in culture-negative, India-ink-negative CSF. Pretreatment of the sample of CSF with 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME) ablated the antigen titer and established the presence of a false-positive LAT, whereas CSF pretreated with dithiothreitol (DTT) and pronase continued to yield a false-positive result. The differing ability of pronase, DTT, and 2-ME to eliminate interfering substances from CSF has not been previously described. Moreover, because RF is unlikely to cross the blood-brain barrier, the authors postulated that malignant disease was responsible for the patient's false-positive LAT in CSF. Hence, the authors report the case to emphasize that false-positive LAT results in CSF are unlikely to be produced by RF and to underscore the benefit of using enzymatic and sulfhydryl-reducing agents when the validity of the initial test results are in doubt. Such a procedure will optimize the chances of accurately identifying false-positive LAT results in CSF. 
Poliomyelitis-like paralysis during recovery from acute bronchial asthma: possible etiology and risk factors. A poliomyelitis-like paralytic disease during recovery from an attack of bronchial asthma is described in two young children. They presented at the age of 13 and 22 months, respectively, with acute flaccid paralysis of one or both lower limbs and preserved sensation. Cerebrospinal fluid examinations revealed mild protein elevation in both and pleocytosis in the second infant. Enteroviruses were isolated in a nasal swab and stools of the second patient. Acute onset of flaccid paralysis with absent motor action potential and normal sensory responses, detected by electrophysiologic studies, are highly suggestive of motor anterior horn cell disease in these infants. A multifactorial setup of immune suppression, stress, and neurotoxic drugs during an acute bronchial asthma attack triggered by a viral disease may render the patient vulnerable to viral invasion of the anterior horn cell with enteroviruses other than poliovirus. The overall experience of 22 patients with this serious complication is reviewed. 
Do otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeons and/or chemotherapy have a role in the treatment of head and neck cancer? We provide an update on the current status of chemotherapy in the treatment of head and neck cancer. The role of the otolaryngology--head and neck surgeon in this important clinical research is underscored. Those involved with treating patients with head and neck cancer must understand the mechanisms of clinical cancer research. Physicians in academic and community settings can be intimately involved in this treatment. 
Management of temporal bone carcinomas: a therapeutic analysis of two groups of patients and long-term followup. Fifty-one patients with squamous cell carcinomas arising within the temporal bone were subdivided into two groups. The initial group of 17 patients, seen between 1960 and 1980, were reviewed retrospectively and staged into four subgroups on the basis of initial tumor presentation and location (i.e., external auditory canal, superficial invasion, deep invasion, and tumors beyond the temporal bone). After treatment in a variety of surgical and radiotherapeutic combinations, the 5-year cure rates were: 70%, 70%, 50%, and 9%, respectively. Thirty-four patients, seen between 1980 and 1989, were placed in a new prospective protocol for combined surgery and postoperative irradiation. These patients were subdivided into the same subgroups on the basis of tumor location. The surgical procedures were formalized to be more encompassing (i.e., external canal tumors were treated by sleeve resection of the internal auditory canal and tympanic membrane, superficial invasion by superficial temporal bone resection, deep tumors by radical temporal bone resection, and those beyond the temporal bone by an infratemporal fossa approach). Radical neck dissections were performed where needed. The irradiation dosage was increased to 6250+ cGy, with a 4:1 ratio in favor of electrons for deeper penetration, and the fields were widened. At 36.6-month average followup, the cure rates were: 100%, 100%, 70%, and 65%, respectively. Six of ten patients with neck metastases at presentation had tumor recurrence or distant disease (60%). 
Modulation of splanchnic vascular sensitivity to angiotensin II. We studied whether the diminished splanchnic vascular response to angiotensin II infusion in portal hypertension could be related to elevated levels of prostacyclin (PGI2). The changes in superior mesenteric artery resistance (RSMA) and systemic vascular resistance (RSYS) during angiotensin II infusion were measured by Doppler flow probe in normal rabbits (NL) and portal hypertensive rabbits (PHT), and in NL and PHT after cyclooxygenase blockade (CO) and after CO and during continuous PGI2 infusion at 300 ng/kg/min. Angiotensin II infusion in NL caused a disproportionately greater increase in RSMA than in RSYS (p less than 0.01). In PHT, angiotensin II response of RSMA was reduced from NL (p less than 0.05). CO dramatically improved the splanchnic response to angiotensin II in PHT animals, but did not significantly alter the RSMA response in NL. PGI2 in NL, NL + CO, and PHT + CO quantitatively established the splanchnic vascular hyporesponsiveness to angiotensin II seen in PHT. We conclude that PGI2 will directly diminish splanchnic response to angiotensin II in NL, and CO will ablate differences in splanchnic response between NL and PHT to angiotensin II. This strongly implies that much of the observed decrease in angiotensin II response in PHT is mediated by PGI2 and that the differences between NL and PHT vascular response is in part the result of circulating vasodilatory substances. 
Digitally-directed transrectal biopsy using Biopty gun versus transrectal needle aspiration: comparison of diagnostic yield and comfort. A technique for digitally-directed core biopsy using the Biopty device and prospective comparison of accuracy and comfort, using this technique simultaneously with transrectal needle aspiration, are presented. To better estimate the true prevalence of carcinoma in the study population, a repeat combined procedure was performed on all subjects who did not have carcinoma confirmed on the initial core biopsies. All procedures were done by one investigator and all pathology reviewed by one senior pathologist. A total of 180 combined procedures were performed on 100 consecutive patients with palpably abnormal prostates; 30 carcinomas were detected. Digitally-directed Biopty biopsy yielded a sensitivity rate of 87 percent compared with 57 percent for needle aspiration (p less than 0.05). Using a numerical comfort scale, the Biopty device was also rated less painful than needle aspiration (p = 0.0001). The morbidity of the combined procedure was minimal, with a minor complication rate of 2.2 percent. No infections occurred. 
Left ventricular myocardial edema. Lymph flow, interstitial fibrosis, and cardiac function. We hypothesized that both acute and chronic accumulation of myocardial interstitial edema (extravascular fluid [EVF]) would compromise cardiac function. We also postulated that excess fluid within the myocardial interstitial space would potentiate interstitial fibrosis, thus further compromising function. Dogs were divided into three groups: 1) control, 2) chronic pulmonary hypertensive with right heart failure, and 3) chronic arterial hypertensive. The quantity of EVF, expressed as the unitless blood-free (wet weight-dry weight)/dry weight ratio, and interstitial fibrosis (collagen content) were determined and correlated with cardiac function at baseline and after acute elevation of coronary venous pressure and reduction of cardiac lymph flow. Control EVF was 2.90 +/- 0.20 (mean +/- SD), which increased to 3.45 +/- 0.16 after acute (3-hour) elevation of coronary sinus pressure. This EVF significantly compromised cardiac function. The EVF in chronically hypertensive dogs and in dogs with chronic right heart pressure elevations was 3.50 +/- 0.30 and 3.50 +/- 0.08, respectively. End-diastolic left ventricular interstitial fluid pressure increased from a control value of 14.9 +/- 3.1 (at EVF = 2.9) to 24.8 +/- 3.7 (at EVF = 3.5). An EVF of 3.5 produced approximately 30% reduction of the heart's ability to maintain cardiac output at a left atrial pressure of 15 mm Hg. The compromised function in these chronic models is exacerbated after acute elevation of coronary venous pressure and reduction of cardiac lymph flow. Collagen levels were elevated by at least 20% in the chronic hypertensive dogs and in the nonhypertrophied left ventricles of dogs with chronic right heart pressure elevation. 
Computed tomographic scan confirmation of paraprosthetic enteric fistula. Aortoenteric anastomotic fistulae and paraprosthetic graft infections are rare but devastating complications following aortic graft surgery. Although the incidence of these complications is reported to be less than 2%, the difficulty in diagnosis and management has led to high mortality rates and extensive morbidity. The majority of patients present with either groin infection or significant gastrointestinal tract bleeding. There is, however, a subset of patients with nonspecific clinical findings in whom routine studies are not diagnostic. Computed tomography was a useful adjunct to the diagnosis of retroperitoneal infection in these patients by demonstrating small collections of periaortic gas or "black dots." The presence of periaortic gas in each instance proved to be a specific sign of a paraprosthetic-enteric fistula, as opposed to a graft infection without intestinal communication. 
Cardiac resuscitation by extracorporeal circulation after failure of conventional CPR. After cardiac arrest, return of cardiac function and effective circulation are contingent on prompt restoration of myocardial blood flow. Because conventional closed-chest CPR has limited hemodynamic efficiency, we investigated venoarterial ECC utilizing peripheral vascular access as an alternative for cardiac resuscitation. Ventricular fibrillation was induced in domestic pigs by alternating current delivered to the endocardium of the right ventricle. Conventional closed-chest CPR was begun after 10 minutes. In each instance, precordial compression and external defibrillation failed to restore a viable rhythm. ECC was begun at 15 minutes at an average flow rate of 183 ml/kg/min. In each of eight animals, sinus rhythm was restored. In six of these eight animals, spontaneous circulation was reestablished after an average interval of 152 minutes. When epinephrine was administered concomitantly with ECC in an additional eight animals so as to maintain mean aortic pressure between 60 and 100 mm Hg, sinus rhythm and spontaneous circulation were reestablished in each pig after an average of only 23 minutes. The effects of ECC in conjunction with epinephrine were then compared with those of conventional precordial compression in conjunction with epinephrine (sham ECC). In contrast to ECC, which successfully resuscitated each of five animals, none of five sham ECC-treated animals was resuscitated by continued precordial compression and maximal doses of epinephrine (p less than 0.01). We conclude that ECC in conjunction with epinephrine emerges as a highly effective experimental intervention for resuscitation when conventional techniques of precordial compression and external defibrillation fail to reverse cardiac arrest. 
Hypertrophy of clitoral hood: presenting sign of neurofibromatosis in female child. Although clitoral involvement with neurofibromatosis is rare, all cases previously reported have described clitoral hypertrophy due to neurofibromas of the clitoral corpora. We report on a patient who had localized enlargement of the prepuce only, with no evidence of neurofibromatous infiltration. In all cases, diagnosis of clitoromegaly requires basic chromosomal and endocrinologic evaluation. However, recognition of its association with neurofibromatosis due to either neurofibromas of the genitalia or localized genital hypertrophy may spare the patient an unnecessary or invasive evaluation. Because of an association with urinary tract neurofibromas, the patient with genital involvement should have cystoscopy. Clitoroplasty with sparing of the neurovascular bundle and glans is the preferred method of management of the enlarged clitoris. 
Development of a stable Leishmania expression vector and application to the study of parasite surface antigen genes. Trypanosomatid protozoan parasites cause several important tropical diseases and have been a fertile ground for the discovery of molecular paradigms such as trans-splicing and RNA editing. Transfection-based methods for the study of these organisms have recently been developed, and we have now designed an expression vector, pX, which contains only 2.3 kilobases of Leishmania DNA and can be stably transfected with high efficiency. Genes encoding Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase or a Leishmania amazonensis protective membrane glycoprotein (GP46A/M-2) were inserted into the pX expression site and transfected into Leishmania major, where they directed the synthesis of high levels of mRNAs formed by 5' and 3' processing events occurring predominantly at the sites used by the normal transcripts. Colony assays and immunoblot analysis showed that both proteins were produced; enzymatically active beta-galactosidase comprised approximately 1% of total protein. Sizes of the GP46A protein synthesized in transfected L. major or L. amazonensis were similar and differed from the predominant L. amazonensis GP46, suggesting that the GP46A gene may encode a variant GP46 family member. Because these vectors function efficiently in pathogenic species of Leishmania, pX will facilitate the genetic analyses of parasite proteins crucial for infectivity as well as the identification of cis-acting elements mediating transcription and replication. 
The effects of cyclobenzaprine on sleep physiology and symptoms in patients with fibromyalgia. A double blind, placebo controlled, crossover design study examined overnight sleep physiology, pain, fatigue, and mood symptoms in 12 patients with fibromyalgia treated with cyclobenzaprine. Nine patients completed the study. Patients receiving cyclobenzaprine showed a decrease in evening fatigue (F = 4.7, p less than 0.05) and an increase in total sleep time (F = 4.4, p less than 0.05). Pain, including tender point count and dolorimetry, mood ratings, and alpha non-REM EEG sleep anomaly were unchanged by cyclobenzaprine. 
Primary prevention of sudden cardiovascular death in hypertensive patients. Mortality results from the MAPHY Study. In a randomized primary prevention trial including 3,234 men with mild to moderate uncomplicated hypertension, the effect of the beta-blocker metoprolol or a thiazide diuretic as an initial antihypertensive therapy was compared regarding the risk of sudden cardiovascular death during a follow-up ranging from 2.3 to 10.8 years (median of 4.2 years). Only men aged 40 to 64 years were included in the study. The randomization of patients into the metoprolol (n = 1,609) or diuretic group (n = 1,625) was performed after stratification for age, smoking habits, serum cholesterol, and systolic blood pressure. At baseline the two treatment groups were well matched. Metoprolol was given in a mean dose of 174 mg daily and the mean dose of thiazide diuretic was either 46 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily or 4.4 mg bendroflumethiazide daily. Identical blood pressure control was achieved using the fixed therapeutic schedule. Total and cardiovascular mortality were significantly lower for metoprolol than for diuretics, owing to fewer deaths from coronary heart disease and stroke. Of the cardiovascular deaths, 78% were classified as sudden cardiovascular deaths (occurred within 24 h after the onset of symptoms). There were significantly fewer sudden cardiovascular deaths in the metoprolol group compared to the diuretic group (32 v 45, P = .017). The present results suggest that initial antihypertensive therapy with metoprolol is associated with a lesser incidence of sudden cardiovascular deaths than initial diuretic treatment in uncomplicated hypertension. 
Frequency of low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in hospitalized patients with "desirable" total cholesterol levels. Because the National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines suggest that levels of total serum cholesterol less than 5.17 mmol/liter (200 mg/dl) are "desirable," we performed a retrospective observational analysis to determine the prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with total cholesterol less than 5.17 mmol/liter (200 mg/dl) and the prevalence of total cholesterol less than 5.17 mmol/liter (200 mg/dl) in patients with CAD by angiography. Cholesterol levels less than 5.17 mmol/liter (200 mg/dl) were found in 1,084 of 2,535 patients (42%) having cholesterol measured on hospital admission; 690 of these 1,084 (64%) had CAD. These patients were mostly men, had a family history of premature CAD, and 60% (414 of 690) had high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol less than 0.90 mmol/liter (35 mg/dl). In a separate group of patients defined from the same admission population but having angiographically established CAD, 32% (424 of 1,197) had a total cholesterol less than 5.17 mmol/liter (200 mg/dl), 59% of whom (252 of 424) had HDL less than 0.90 mmol/liter (35 mg/dl). An analysis of persons admitted electively for angiography (to exclude any effects of hospitalization per se on serum lipids) revealed a similar proportion of persons with total cholesterol less than 5.17 mmol/liter (200 mg/dl) (35%), CAD (82%), and HDL less than 0.90 mmol/liter (35 mg/dl). 
Is large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ) more accurate than colposcopically directed punch biopsy in the diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? In 100 women with suspected cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) attending the colposcopy clinic the histological diagnoses made from excision biopsies taken by large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ) were compared with those from colposcopically directed punch biopsies taken concurrently. One unsuspected microinvasive tumour was found and the diagnosis made by LLETZ was significantly worse than that made by punch biopsy in 24 cases (24%: 95% CI 15.6 to 32.4%). LLETZ improves the accuracy of diagnosis of CIN. 
Classifying calcaneal tendon injury according to MRI findings. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed on 28 patients with suspected calcaneal tendon injury prior to treatment. None of the patients were involved in competitive sports. All underwent clinical examination, some had had ultrasound or CT scans. We identified four types of lesions: type I, inflammatory reaction; type II, degenerative change; type III, incomplete rupture and type IV, complete rupture. Thirteen of the 28 patients underwent surgery and the diagnostic findings were verified. We recommend that type I, type II and type III lesions be managed conservatively, while type IV lesions should be operated in the young and active patient. 
Improved specificity of myocardial thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography in patients with left bundle branch block by dipyridamole. Reduced septal uptake of thallium-201 during exercise is frequently observed in patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB) and normal coronary arteries. This may reflect normal coronary autoregulation in response to lower septal oxygen demand; thus, dipyridamole, which uniformly exploits flow reserve, would be more accurate for diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD). Sixteen patients with LBBB underwent exercise and dipyridamole thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography and coronary angiography within 3 months. Sensitivity for detection of left anterior descending CAD (greater than 50% stenosis) was 0.83 for exercise and 1.00 for dipyridamole. Specificity was 0.30 (visual) or 0.20 (quantitative analysis) for exercise and 0.80 (visual) or 0.90 (quantitative) for dipyridamole (p less than 0.05). Dipyridamole combined with quantitative analysis also improved specificity of CAD detection overall (p less than 0.01). These data demonstrate that pharmacologic vasodilation is more accurate than exercise when diagnosing CAD by myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in patients with LBBB. 
Contribution of monocytes to the decreased lymphoproliferative response to phytohemagglutinin in patients with lung cancer. Patients with lung cancer (LC) have a reduced T-cell proliferative response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) compared with that of healthy individuals. This decreased response is a result of an inhibitory effect exerted by the monocytes as evidenced by: (1) a restoration to normal levels of the response to PHA when the peripheral blood mononuclear cells were depleted of adherent cells (AD) and (2) a dose-dependent inhibition of the response to PHA when the nonadherent cell population was co-cultured with increasing numbers of autologous AD cells. The addition of indomethacin to the cultures resulted in only a partial restoration of the response to PHA. Monocyte production of interleukin-1 from patients with LC in response to lipopolysaccharide was normal. These findings support the hypothesis that the AD cell population plays a major role in the low T-cell proliferative response to PHA in patients with LC. This suppressor effect is partially mediated by the prostaglandins released by the monocytes. 
Coronary venous retroinfusion of deferoxamine reduces infarct size in pigs. The efficacy of coronary venous retroinfusion of the iron chelator deferoxamine was studied in 24 pentobarbital-anesthetized open chest pigs with a 60 min occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 3 h of reperfusion. Eight retrogradely treated pigs were given 10 mg/kg body weight of deferoxamine by way of the anterior interventricular vein and eight systemically treated pigs received the same doses of deferoxamine intravenously. Drug infusions lasted for 5 min, beginning 15 min before reperfusion. Eight control pigs received systemic intravenous saline solution. Myocardial area at risk and necrotic area were assessed by the monastral blue dye and the triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining method, respectively. There were no significant differences in hemodynamics or regional myocardial function (sonomicrometry) among the groups. Infarct size expressed as percent of risk area was 73.9 +/- 13.5% in the control group, 70.6 +/- 16.4% in the systemically treated group and 48.5 +/- 21.4% (p less than 0.05) in the retrogradely treated group. In conclusion, deferoxamine significantly reduced infarct size after coronary occlusion only when given regionally by way of the coronary vein. Because there was no significant hemodynamic effect caused by deferoxamine infusion, it is suggested that this drug prevents postischemic reperfusion injury by a direct cardioprotective effect. 
Diseases that mimic multiple sclerosis. Because no one laboratory test is diagnostic of multiple sclerosis, evaluation involves careful exclusion of other possible diagnoses. Magnetic resonance imaging is a valuable tool in this process. Clues from a scan can confirm findings from the history and physical and laboratory examinations. Dr Scott compares typical findings of multiple sclerosis with those of the four diseases that are sometimes mistaken for this syndrome. 
A prefecture-wide survey of mumps meningitis associated with measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. A survey of untoward reactions, especially central nervous system reactions, after the administration of a newly introduced measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine in Gunma Prefecture, Japan, was initiated soon after 4 patients were hospitalized for aseptic meningitis. Thirty-five, 6 and 2 children developed meningitis, convulsive disorders and parotitis, respectively, within 2 months after MMR vaccination during the 8-month period extending from April to November, 1989. The time lag between MMR vaccination and meningitis ranged from 14 to 28 days in the 35 cases of meningitis. Mumps virus, isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid in 13 patients with aseptic meningitis, was characterized by determination of the nucleotide sequences of the P gene as mumps vaccine strain. The incidence of aseptic meningitis with positive mumps vaccine virus was estimated to be 0.11% (0.3% as a whole) during the 8 months from April to November and increased to 0.3% (0.7% as a whole) in September and October. We conclude that the incidence of aseptic meningitis after MMR vaccination seems to be higher than that reported previously. 
Simultaneous ipsilateral vasal and epididymal reconstruction. Injuries to the spermatic cords, sustained during childhood inguinal hernioplasty, caused unilateral testicular atrophy, multiple bilateral excurrent duct obstruction and aspermia. Simultaneous unilateral vasal reconstruction and vaso-epididymostomy resulted in satisfactory semen parameters. It is expected that vasal integrity will be maintained after multiple reconstructive procedures at different locations if further injury to the vascular supply of the excurrent duct is avoided. 
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in Romania. After the initial description of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in Romania in late 1989, national AIDS case surveillance was established with a modified version of the World Health Organisation (WHO) clinical case definition. This modified case definition requires that AIDS cases have both clinical and serological evidence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Before December, 1989, Romania had reported 13 AIDS cases to WHO. By Dec 31, 1990, 1168 AIDS cases were reported to Romania's Ministry of Health, of which 1094 (93.7%) occurred in children less than 13 years of age at diagnosis. Of these, 1086 (99.3%) were in infants and children less than 4 years of age, and 683 (62.4%) in abandoned children living in public institutions at the time of diagnosis. By Dec 31, 1990, 493 (45.1%) mothers of children with AIDS had been located and tested, and 37 (7.5%) were positive for HIV; 423 (38.7%) cases were in children who had received transfusions of unscreened blood, and 6 (0.5%) were in children with clotting disorders. HIV transmission through the improper use of needles and syringes is strongly suspected in most of the remaining 628 (57.4%) children with AIDS, most of whom had received multiple therapeutic injections. This outbreak demonstrates the serious potential for HIV transmission in medical facilities that intensively and improperly use parenteral therapy and have poor sterilisation technique. 
Physical training and antiplatelet treatment in stage II peripheral arterial occlusive disease: alone or combined? The efficacy of physical training alone or combined with antiplatelet therapy (dipyridamole and aspirin) was studied in 30 patients with stage II peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD). Patients were randomly allocated to one of the following groups: Group A--dipyridamole 75 mg three times daily and aspirin 330 mg once daily: Group B--physical exercise; Group C--physical exercise and dipyridamole 75 mg three time daily and aspirin 330 mg once daily. After six months' treatment the pain-free walking time (PFWT) and the maximum walking time (MWT) improved significantly (p less than 0.05) in all three groups. In group A the PFWT lengthened by 35% (from 101.00 +/- 34.56 to 137.32 +/- 40.50 s) and the MWT by 38% (from 150.34 +/- 55.60 to 207.26 +/- 60.67 s); in group B the PFWT lengthened by 90% (from 90.65 +/- 40.54 to 171.45 +/- 55.60 s) and the MWT by 86% (from 145.39 +/- 60.50 to 270.63 +/- 63.61 s). When physical exercise was associated with drugs as in group C, the PFWT lengthened by 120% (from 89.51 +/- 43.89 to 196.72 +/- 51.73 s) and the MWT by 105% (from 160.43 +/- 59.84 to 329.05 +/- 63.96 s). No significant variations were observed at any stage of the study in the ankle/arm pressure ratio at rest and after standard treadmill exercise, in the plethysmographic rest and peak flows, or in the transcutaneous oxygen pressure in basal conditions and in its half recovery time after an induced ischemia. The results confirm the benefits of regular exercise in stage II PAOD patients but suggest they may be enhanced by antiplatelet therapy. 
Reverse-perfused sleeve: an improved device for measurement of sphincteric function of the crural diaphragm. The sphincteric function of the crural diaphragm has been difficult to measure in humans. The authors recently reported the use of a Dent sleeve device to measure esophagogastric junction pressure during contraction of the crural diaphragm. However, the major limitation of the conventional sleeve device is its slow response rate, and sustained diaphragmatic contractions of 6-8 seconds must be induced to measure the true pressure. In this article, the principles of a reverse-perfused sleeve device and the theoretical basis for its fast response rate are reported. The reverse-perfused sleeve is validated in an in vitro model of the lower esophageal sphincter. Furthermore, in vivo studies were performed in seven healthy human subjects. Standardized Muller maneuvers and straight-leg raises were performed to induce diaphragmatic contractions. Pressure increases of 50-150 mm Hg during diaphragmatic contractions were attained in less than 1 second. The delay between the actual contraction of the diaphragm as measured by simultaneously recorded crural diaphragm electromyography and pressure recorded by the sleeve was only 0.25-0.50 seconds. Increasing the rate of infusion of the sleeve from 0.5 to 1.0 mL/min did not further improve the response rate of the reverse perfused sleeve. It was concluded that the reverse-perfused sleeve is a considerable improvement over the conventional sleeve for quantitating the sphincteric function of the crural diaphragm. The role of the crural diaphragm in reflux esophagitis may be easily investigated using a reverse-perfused sleeve device. 
Long-term effect of thrombolytic therapy on left ventricular ejection fraction after acute myocardial infarction. To assess the long-term effect of thrombolytic therapy on left ventricular (LV) systolic function, 222 patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator within 4 hours of symptom onset underwent assessment of LV ejection fraction (EF) by radionuclide equilibrium angiography at hospital discharge and 1 year later. Mean EF at hospital discharge (46 +/- 12) was similar to that at 1 year (45 +/- 13). Stepwise multivariate linear regression analysis identified EF at discharge and patency of the infarct-related artery before discharge as independent predictors of EF change at 1 year (p = 0.0002 and 0.003, respectively). Random assignments to invasive versus conservative treatment strategies or to early versus delayed beta-blocker therapy did not affect EF change during follow-up. No significant deterioration of EF was observed in patients with larger infarcts. However, EF decreased from 45 +/- 10 at hospital discharge to 39 +/- 12 (p = 0.005) at 1-year follow-up in a subgroup of patients with history of prior infarction. Thus, patients with acute myocardial infarction, treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator early after onset of symptoms, appear to have stable LV function between hospital discharge and 1 year follow-up. The change in EF between hospital discharge and 1 year can be predicted from the EF value at discharge, patency of the infarct-related artery before discharge and history of previous myocardial infarction. 
Comparison of estrogen receptor and epidermal growth factor receptor content of primary and involved nodes in human breast cancer. Estrogen receptors (ER) and epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR) in the tumor cells of breast cancer tissues (primary tumors) and metastatic lymph nodes (involved nodes) were analyzed by immunocytochemical study in 19 patients; 12 were ER positive, and seven were ER negative. Microscopic study was used to determine the percentage of positive cells and the staining index. The percentage of EGFR-positive cells and the EGFR staining index were higher in the ER-negative primary tumors than ER-positive primary tumors. In ER-positive cases, both the number of ER-positive cells and ER content per cell was less in the involved nodes than in the primary tumors, whereas the number of EGFR-positive cells and EGFR content per cell was greater in affected nodes. On the other hand, in the ER-negative cases the number of EGFR-positive cells and EGFR content per cell remain almost unchanged between the primary tumors and involved nodes. The authors supposed a probability, in this study, that estrogen may exert inhibitory action on EGFR production through binding to ER. 
Assessment of myocardial perfusion by positron emission tomography. Positron emission tomography (PET) represents an advanced imaging technology for the noninvasive evaluation of regional myocardial blood flow. Several blood flow tracers are available, including cyclotron-produced radiopharmaceuticals such as [15O]H2O and [13N]NH3 and generator-produced rubidium-82 ([82Rb]-) and copper-62 ([62Cu]-) pyruvaldehyde-bis-(N-4-methylthiosemicarbazone) (PTSM). 82Rb and [13N]NH3 are the most commonly employed tracers for the qualitative evaluation of regional myocardial perfusion. Their use allows the accurate detection of coronary artery disease in combination with pharmacologic stress. Initial comparative studies with thallium-201 (201Tl) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have shown that PET has a higher diagnostic accuracy. Beyond improved diagnostic performance, the quantitative flow measurements provided by PET represent an important advance in nuclear cardiology. The radiopharmaceuticals [15O]H2O and [13N]NH3 have been applied for the noninvasive determination of regional coronary reserve. Quantification of blood flow based on tracer kinetic modeling yields blood flow values in close agreement with determinations provided by invasive procedures. The noninvasive quantification of blood flow provides a useful research and clinical tool for the objective assessment of therapeutic interventions as well as pathophysiologic alterations of regional myocardial blood flow in various cardiac diseases. 
Eosinophilic fasciitis is clinically distinguishable from the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and is not associated with L-tryptophan use. Induration of the skin develops in a majority of patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with L-tryptophan, and bears striking clinical and histopathological resemblance to eosinophilic fasciitis (EF). These similarities have led to the suggestion that eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and EF are the same disease. To study the relationship of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and EF, we ascertained the prevalence of L-tryptophan use in a cohort of patients with EF, and compared their clinical and laboratory findings to those of patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated cutaneous involvement. None of 11 patients who were diagnosed as having EF between 1970 and 1989 used L-tryptophan containing preparations prior to the onset of their illness. Marked clinical and laboratory test differences were observed between patients with EF and eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome had a more acute onset, more severe symptoms, higher frequency of rash and of pulmonary, cardiac, gastrointestinal, neurologic, myopathic and thyroid involvement compared to patients with EF. Corticosteroid therapy resulted in improvement of cutaneous involvement in 88% of patients with EF but it was only partially successful in patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Hospitalization and fatalities occurred only among patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. These observations demonstrate that eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a more severe disease with multisystemic involvement that can be clinically distinguished from EF. In contrast to eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, EF is not associated with L-tryptophan ingestion. 
Prediction of major cardiac events after peripheral vascular surgery using dipyridamole echocardiography. Patients undergoing peripheral vascular surgery are at increased risk of postoperative cardiac complications. To evaluate the role of dipyridamole echocardiography in predicting major cardiac events, 109 unselected patients undergoing elective peripheral vascular surgery were prospectively studied. Preoperative dipyridamole echocardiograms were interpreted by an echocardiographer unaware of all clinical data. Patients were followed up until hospital discharge by research physicians without knowledge of dipyridamole echocardiography results. Outcomes were classified using strict predefined criteria by reviewers unaware of other clinical and echocardiographic data. Of the 109 patients, 9 (8%) had positive studies defined as development of new regional wall motion abnormalities or worsening of preexistent wall motion abnormalities. Of these 9 patients, 7 had postoperative events, including 3 cardiac deaths, 1 nonfatal myocardial infarction, 2 with unstable angina, and 1 with pulmonary edema. Only 1 event occurred among the 100 patients with negative studies. The sensitivity and specificity of dipyridamole echocardiography for predicting cardiac events after vascular surgery were 88 and 98%, respectively; the positive and negative predictive values were 78 and 99%. The relative risk of having a cardiac event if dipyridamole echocardiography was abnormal was 78 (95% confidence interval, 11 to 564; p less than 0.0001). If these results are extended and confirmed by other investigators, preoperative dipyridamole echocardiography may be an important screening test for patients undergoing elective peripheral vascular surgery. 
Efficacy of intraarterial heparin in maintaining microvascular patency: an experimental model. Human-grade sodium heparin was studied to determine thrombosis model patency rates between an intraarterial infusion versus an intravenous method of delivery in a rabbit model. Specific differences in patency and partial thromboplastin times were studied in each group and compared with a saline-perfused group. Three animal groups (New Zealand white rabbits) were established (total = 35 animals). Standardized femoral arterial 5-mm inversion grafts (AIG) were done in each animal in each group. The animals in the control group received intravenous saline infusion, while the two treatment groups received intravenous heparin (12 animals) or intraarterial heparin (12 animals minus 1 anesthesia death). The route of instillation of the infusate was selected at random after completing the inversion grafts. A proximal epigastric branch was utilized for access in those animals randomized to the intraarterial group. Intravenous delivery was accomplished by means of a femoral venous catheter in the vena cava. A 72-hour period of infusion was used in all animals. A dose of 45 units per hour of heparin following a 500-unit bolus was used in the intravenous group. After an identical bolus dose, 25 units per hour of heparin was administered in the intraarterial group. The control (saline group) was given 1 cc saline (in a volume equal to the heparin-dosed groups) daily for 3 days. Arterial inversion graft patency rates were assessed by direct inspection at day 5. Systemic and regional (i.e., distal to the inversion graft) partial thromboplastin times (PTT) were measured in representative control, IV, and intraarterial heparin-treated groups. Complications were recorded. 
Apheresis-elutriation program for adoptive immunotherapy with autologous activated monocytes in cancer patients. Human blood monocytes (Mo) and monocyte-derived macrophages (M phi) are known to be potent antitumor cytotoxic effector cells through activation with recombinant human interferon gamma (rIFN-gamma), bacterial muramyldipeptide or the synthetic derivative muramyltripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine entrapped in liposomes (L-MTP-PE). Large-scale generation of ex vivo activated Mo from the blood of cancer patients proved feasible. We report our experience with a fixed rotor speed counterflow centrifugation elutration (CEE) procedure using the newly available Beckman high capacity JE-5.0 rotor system that reproducibly isolates up to 1.0-1.5 x 10(9) Mo with greater than 90% purity, in suspension and functionally intact derived from peripheral blood mononuclear cell-enriched suspensions obtained by leukapheresis (LP) from healthy volunteers and cancer patients. The semiclosed, easy to handle CCE system, was adapted to a sterile technique that permitted clinical trials in adoptive monocyte immunotherapy. Freshly isolated Mo did not lose morphological or functional integrity and had no spontaneous activation. Their abilities to become activated to the cytotoxic state after 18-h stimulation with 500 U/ml rIFN-gamma or 1 microgram/ml L-MTP-PE and to differentiate into matured M phi in vitro were not altered. The system was therefore used to isolate large numbers of Mo for a phase I clinical trial of intraperitoneal immunotherapy with L-MTP-PE activated autologous Mo in nine patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. Each patient received weekly Mo infusions (n = 5) with an intrapatient dose escalation schedule (from 10(7) to 10(9) Mo). Toxicities were mild including fever, chills and abdominal pain. There was no treatment-induced thromboembolic event or capillary leak syndrome. 
Latency and time-dependent exposure in a case-control study. Detailed historical data are elicited often from subjects in retrospective studies, yielding time-dependent measures of exposures. Investigation of a hypothesized period of latency can be made by examining disease/exposure relationships in multiple time windows, either along the age or time-before diagnosis axes. We suggest splitting the data into many time intervals and separately fitting regression models to the available data in each interval. Covariances between estimated coefficients from different intervals are empirically estimated, and used for assessing variability of specified functions of the time-specific coefficients. Alternative methods of interval formation and their consequences are discussed. We apply these methods to a French case-control study of oral contraceptive use and cervical cancer incidence, and compare the results to those of standard analyses. 
Dipyridamole 201Tl scintigraphy in the evaluation of prognosis after myocardial infarction. Dipyridamole 201Tl imaging has been proposed as an alternative to exercise ECG testing for the prehospital discharge evaluation of patients recovering from myocardial infarction. The rationale is that many postinfarction patients with exercise-induced ischemia experience later cardiac events, and the sensitivity of predischarge exercise ECG testing in patients with multivessel disease ranges from only 45% to 62%. In addition, several groups of investigators have shown the sensitivity of submaximum exercise 201Tl imaging to be less than ideal. This report summarizes the current status of dipyridamole 201Tl imaging in the period of 1-13 days after myocardial infarction. Although the number of studies performed to date is limited, the following conclusions can be drawn: dipyridamole 201Tl imaging after myocardial infarction was associated with no serious side effects, and those present could be quickly reversed with aminophylline; redistribution with dipyridamole 201Tl images definitely correlates with prognosis after uncomplicated myocardial infarction; dipyridamole 201Tl imaging is definitely useful in patients unable to exercise for a variety of reasons; and future studies are definitely indicated to further define the role of dipyridamole 201Tl imaging for assessing prognosis, especially in those patients undergoing interventional therapy after acute myocardial infarction. 
Bacterial translocation. The phenomenon of bacterial translocation, the movement of viable indigenous microorganisms across the intestinal epithelial barrier, has been recognized for almost 100 years. At the present time, the precise mechanism of microbial transport is unknown. Active epithelial uptake and phagocyte-mediated transport have been proposed as likely explanations for the extraintestinal movement of bacteria to mesenteric lymph nodes and distant organ sites. Translocation has been proposed as the pivotal process associated with intestinal origin portal sepsis in seriously ill and immunocompromised patients. While several etiologic factors can be implicated in the pathogenesis of bacterial translocation, the present clinical implications are based almost solely on studies of dogs, rats and mice. Present investigations continue to suggest a causal relationship between intestinal mucosal integrity and infection by indigenous gastrointestinal bacteria. 
Superior vena caval thrombosis detected by transesophageal echocardiography. Three patients with clinical suspicion of bacterial endocarditis, induced by either pacemaker or indwelling catheter, underwent transesophageal echocardiography. High short-axis cuts through the great vessels, however, revealed the presence of superior vena caval thrombus in all three patients. Transesophageal echocardiography is more sensitive in establishing the diagnosis of superior vena caval thrombus than surface echocardiography. Comparison of transesophageal echocardiography with other diagnostic modalities is needed in assessing its overall sensitivity and specificity. 
The symptomatic os subfibulare. Avulsion fracture of the fibula associated with recurrent instability of the ankle. Four adults who had symptomatic instability of the ankle had an associated os subfibulare. Operative exploration revealed the ossicle to represent a non-union of an avulsion fracture of the anterior talofibular ligament. These findings suggest that an os subfibulare represents an avulsion fracture that may or may not be associated with laxity of the anterior talofibular ligament, rather than being a normal variant. 
A novel enzyme immunoassay for serodiagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection. Helicobacter pylori has recently been implicated as an etiologic agent of gastroduodenal disorders. Comparing the antibody to H. pylori in the sera of patients with that of normal controls by Western blot analysis, a unique antibody was detected in the sera of patients, which reacted with the 25-kilodalton antigen of H. pylori. On the other hand, monoclonal antibody CP3 prepared in the authors' laboratory also recognized the 25-kilodalton antigen of H. pylori. Whether the serum antibody of the patient recognized the CP3 antigen purified by monoclonal antibody CP3 was then examined. Western blot analysis showed that the patient's serum reacted strongly with the affinity-purified CP3 antigen. Using monoclonal antibody CP3, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect CP3 antibody in sera was established. In patients with chronic gastritis and gastric ulcers, the titer of CP3 antibody was significantly higher than in normal controls and correlated with the histological grade of antral gastritis. The detection of CP3 antibody in sera is useful in the diagnosis of chronic gastritis and gastric ulcer associated with H. pylori infection and also in evaluation of the grade of gastritis. 
Acute short-term memory loss from trimethyltin exposure. We report a case of organic tin exposure in a graduate chemistry student. The inhalational and transcutaneous exposure occurred following a laboratory explosion. The patient initially presented with first and second degree burns of the face and chest, and developed an acute loss of short-term memory 72 hours after exposure. The memory loss gradually improved over the course of several months. 
Chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection and virus-associated hemophagocytic syndrome. We describe two unusual cases of Epstein-Barr virus infection that were complicated by the virus-associated hemophagocytic syndrome, predominantly involving the spleen. Both patients were young adult men who presented with fever, pancytopenia, and hepatosplenomegaly. Both had prompt symptomatic and hematologic improvement following splenectomy. Severe constitutional symptoms recurred in one patient 1 month after splenectomy, and he died of septicemia 2 months later. In both cases, there was prominent hemophagocytosis in the splenic red pulp. Some hemophagocytosis was also noted in the liver from the fatal case. Unexpectedly, no hemophagocytosis was detected in the bone marrow biopsy specimens or marrow aspirates obtained from these patients. The DNA hybridization studies detected Epstein-Barr virus genomes in spleen samples from both patients, and both patients had atypical patterns of serologic response to the virus, suggesting that a defective immune response may lead to an unrestrained viral proliferation. We conclude that there is an association between chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection and the hemophagocytic syndrome, but that the tissue distribution of the hemophagocytosis may be variable. 
Longer relapse-free period after sucralfate than after H2-blocker treatment of duodenal and gastric ulcers. In a prospective investigation of 2,045 patients with recurrent peptic ulcer disease, the relapse-free period after acute treatment with sucralfate was evaluated over 1 year. This remission period was compared retrospectively with that achieved by previous treatment with a histamine-H2-blocker in the same patients. Only patients who had a symptomatic relapse within 1 year after H2-blocker therapy were included. Patients with no relapses within 1 year after sucralfate were assumed to have a relapse on day 366, in order to compare the two periods. In 73% of the evaluable 2,045 patients, remission after sucralfate was longer than after H2-blocker, and 23% of these patients had no symptomatic relapse at all within 1 year after sucralfate. The average relapse-free period after sucralfate was 212 days, as compared with 132 days after H2-blockers (difference = 80 days; p less than 0.0001). Elderly and nonsmoking patients and those experiencing their first recurrence, or who had a duodenal ulcer, benefited especially from acute treatment with sucralfate. It can be concluded that peptic ulcer patients with a relapse after treatment with an H2-blocker are suitable candidates for sucralfate therapy. There is a high probability that the relapse-free period after sucralfate is longer than after H2-blocker treatment in both gastric and duodenal ulcer patients. 
Endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral blood vessels during chronic hypertension. Acetylcholine produces less dilatation of pial arterioles in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) than in normotensive (WKY) rats. Responses of cerebral vessels to acetylcholine and bradykinin appear to involve different mechanisms. Our first goal was to determine whether responses of pial arterioles to bradykinin are impaired in SHRSP. Diameter of pial arterioles (20-60 microns) was measured using intravital microscopy in WKY rats and SHRSP (9-12 months old). Superfusion of bradykinin (3 x 10(-7) M) dilated pial arterioles by 35 +/- 6% (mean +/- SEM) in WKY rats, but only 21 +/- 3% in SHRSP (p less than 0.05 versus WKY rats). Both nitric oxide (5 x 10(-7) M) and nitroglycerin (10(-5) M) produced similar vasodilatation in WKY rats and SHRSP. Our second goal was to determine whether alteration of postreceptor mechanisms contributes to impairment of endothelium-dependent cerebral vasodilatation in SHRSP. Calcium ionophore A23187 (10(-5) M) produced more vasodilatation in WKY rats than in SHRSP (32 +/- 8% versus 9 +/- 4%, p less than 0.05). Responses to A23187 (10(-5) M) were inhibited by indomethacin (46 +/- 13% versus 15 +/- 5%, p less than 0.05) in WKY rats, whereas responses to A23187 (10(-6) M) were potentiated modestly by indomethacin (-3 +/- 2% versus 4 +/- 2%, p less than 0.05) in SHRSP. 
Production of interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 by human keratinocytes and squamous cell carcinoma cell lines. Cultured human keratinocytes and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cell lines were analyzed for the presence of ribonucleic acid (RNA) transcripts for the cytokines interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 and for these proteins. This study demonstrates that both cytokines are synthesized and secreted by both normal keratinocytes and SCC lines. The rate of secretion of these cytokines can be augmented in response to a variety of stimuli including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, transforming growth factor-beta and the combination of lipopolysaccharide and phorbol myristate acetate. Interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 have been reported to influence the proliferation of cultured human fibroblasts. However, these cytokines had no significant effect on the proliferation of human keratinocytes or the SCC lines tested. Although it seems unlikely that interleukin-1 or interleukin-6 could directly influence keratinocyte proliferation in vivo, the capacity of these cells to synthesize and release these cytokines supports earlier observations that keratinocytes may play an important role in augmenting an immune or inflammatory response. 
PBC 95k, a 95-kilodalton nuclear autoantigen in primary biliary cirrhosis. We have identified a novel antinuclear antibody (ANA) in the sera of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Sera from 22 of 50 PBC patients stained the nuclei of HEp-2 cells in a pattern of 5-20 discrete dots, on indirect immunofluorescence. Typically, the titers were higher than 1:1,280. This staining pattern was seen in only 4 of 1,240 ANA-positive samples from patients with other connective tissue diseases, and in none of the ANA-positive sera from 49 patients with other liver diseases. Sera which stained the nuclear dots bound a 95-kd polypeptide in immunoblots of HeLa nuclei and in immunoprecipitates of 35S-methionine-labeled HeLa extracts. Affinity-purified antibodies from the 95-kd protein reproduced the nuclear dot immunofluorescence staining pattern, demonstrating that this polypeptide is located in the nuclear dots. ANA of this type, therefore, occur in 44% of patients with PBC, and they appear to be specific for PBC. These antibodies bind a 95-kd protein that is discrete and is scattered throughout the nucleus. 
An evaluation of immunohistologic stains for immunoglobulin light chains in bone marrow biopsies in benign and malignant plasma cell proliferations. Bone marrow specimens from 226 patients with a variety of benign and malignant plasma cell proliferations were studied to assess the reliability of immunohistologic studies in their evaluation. The clonality of the bone marrow plasma cells was compared with results of serum and urine electrophoreses. Discordance was observed most frequently in cases in which a paraprotein was demonstrated, but no monoclonality was detected by immunoperoxidase (16 cases). Of these 16 cases, 9 had 5% or less bone marrow plasma cells. In only one case was the light chain class of the bone marrow plasma cells different from that of the paraprotein. If discordant cases with 5% or less plasma cells are eliminated, the overall concordance was 97%. The authors' findings indicate that immunohistologic studies for immunoglobulin light chains in Zenker-fixed decalcified bone marrow biopsy sections are reliable in the evaluation of patients with plasma cell proliferations when the marrow contains more than 5% plasma cells. 
The p53 tumour suppressor gene. The cell cycle is composed of a series of steps which can be negatively or positively regulated by various factors. Chief among the negative regulators is the p53 protein. Alteration or inactivation of p53 by mutation, or by its interactions with oncogene products of DNA tumour viruses, can lead to cancer. These mutations seem to be the most common genetic change in human cancers. 
Cerebral perfusion during canine hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass: effect of arterial carbon dioxide tension Cerebral blood flow (radioactive microspheres), intracranial pressure (subdural bolt), and retinal histopathology were examined in 20 dogs undergoing 150 minutes of hypothermic (28 degrees C) cardiopulmonary bypass to compare alpha-stat (arterial carbon dioxide tension, 40 +/- 1 mm Hg; n = 10) and pH-stat (arterial carbon dioxide tension, 61 +/- 1 mm Hg; n = 10) techniques of arterial carbon dioxide tension management. Pump flow (80 mL.kg-1.min-1), mean aortic pressure (78 +/- 2 mm Hg), and hemoglobin level (87 +/- 3 g/L [8.7 +/- 0.3 g/dL]) were maintained constant. During bypass, intracranial pressure progressively increased in the alpha-stat group from 6.0 +/- 1.0 to 13.9 +/- 1.8 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and in the pH-stat group from 7.7 +/- 1.1 to 14.7 +/- 1.4 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), although there was no evidence of loss of intracranial compliance or intracranial edema formation as assessed by brain water content. With cooling, cerebral blood flow decreased by 56% to 62% in the alpha-stat group (p less than 0.05) and by 48% to 56% in the pH-stat group (p less than 0.05). However, 30 minutes after rewarming to 37 degrees C, cerebral blood flow in both groups failed to increase and remained significantly depressed compared with baseline values. Both groups showed similar amounts of ischemic retinal damage, with degeneration of bipolar cells found in the inner nuclear layer in 67% of animals. We conclude that, independent of the arterial carbon dioxide tension management technique, (1) cerebral perfusion decreased comparably during prolonged hypothermic bypass, (2) intracranial pressure increases progressively, (3) ischemic damage to retinal cells occurs despite maintenance of aortic pressure and flow, and (4) a significant reduction in cerebral perfusion persists after rewarming. 
Blindness resulting from orbital complications of sinusitis. Loss of vision remains a potential complication of orbital infection. Appropriate evaluation and management of the patient with signs and symptoms of orbital inflammation may prevent progression to blindness. Evaluation of patients with orbital inflammation from sinusitis includes a comprehensive clinical examination and radiographic studies. Clinical examination should test for changes in visual acuity, pupillary reactivity, and extraocular motion. Computerized tomography (CT) has facilitated the diagnosis of orbital infections and aids in diagnosis. However, CT can be misleading in patients with acute orbital infections and should not be relied on to determine the need for surgical intervention. We reviewed the records of all patients admitted to Parkland Memorial Hospital from 1978 to 1988 with orbital complications resulting from sinusitis. Four of 159 patients in this group had permanent blindness. The presence of an abscess, which was ultimately found at surgical exploration, was not diagnosed by CT in any of these four patients. Clinical examination remains the most important indicator for surgical intervention in patients with orbital complications of sinusitis. We present our findings and give guidelines for surgical intervention in patients with orbital infections resulting from sinusitis. 
Prediction of subclinical tumor infiltration in basal cell carcinoma. Two thousand-sixteen basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) were documented in terms of age, anatomic location, tumor diameter, initial excision depth, safety margin, histologic type, and the position of tumor outgrowths as determined by three-dimensional histologic study of the tumor margins in paraffin sections (micrographic surgery). The extent of each subsequent excision was recorded until tumor-free tissue was reached. The results showed that BCCs have a highly irregular infiltration pattern and a predilection for small, fingerlike outgrowths whose bases occupy 1-30 degrees of the tumor circumference. When superficial extension was expressed mathematically, the resulting exponential functions varied highly significantly (P = .001) according to histologic tumor type and diameter. The resulting curves permitted very precise prediction of the probability of tumor-positive margins (ie, subtotal excision), depending on the safety margin, histologic tumor type, and tumor diameter. For example, the probability of tumor-positive margins after excision of a BCC up to 10 mm in diameter is 30% with a safety margin of 2 mm, 16% with a safety margin of 3 mm, and 5% with a safety margin of 5 mm. The probability of tumor-positive margins for fibrosing primary BCCs 10-20 mm in diameter is 48, 34, and 18% with safety margins of 2, 3, and 5 mm, respectively. Recurrent tumors have a significantly higher probability of positive margins (P = .001) than primary ones. Anatomic location and tumor age affect subclinical extension only indirectly. 
An outbreak of designer drug--related deaths in Pennsylvania 3-Methylfentanyl ("China White") is a "designer" opiate that has caused more than 100 overdose deaths in California since 1979, but that has not been associated previously with deaths east of the Rocky Mountains. During 1988, 3-methylfentanyl was identified in 16 fatal overdose cases in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, contributing to a fourfold rise in overdose mortality during October of that year. Morphine was detected in the blood of five persons (31%) and cocaine in the blood of three persons (19%) dying of 3-methylfentanyl overdoses; these were demographically similar to 99 other fatal overdose cases investigated by the county coroner from 1986 through 1988. This documents the contribution of 3-methylfentanyl to overdose mortality in an eastern city and the use of 3-methylfentanyl with other illegal drugs. Drug abusers in the northeastern United States should be considered at risk for more "designer drug" overdose outbreaks in the future. 
Serum hepatitis B virus DNA in hepatitis B virus seropositive and seronegative patients with normal liver function. The presence of hepatitis type B virus (HBV) DNA in serum specimens from 926 apparently healthy people with normal liver functions was determined by polymerase chain reaction; 41.2% of people with positive results for HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) (94 of 228) and 95.2% of people with positive results for HBV e antigen (HBeAg) (60 of 63) were found to have positive results for serum HBV DNA. On the other hand, serum HBV DNA was found in 11.0% (77 of 698) of HBsAg-negative people and in 13% (69 of 530) of those who had positive results for serum antibodies directed against HBsAg. The results seem to suggest that HBV DNA can be found in a significant portion of apparently healthy people with normal liver function who are either seronegative for HBsAg or seropositive for antibodies directed against HBsAg. 
Posterior spinal fusion in Sotos' syndrome. Sotos' syndrome (synonym: cerebral gigantism) is the association of mental retardation, macrocephaly and prenatal onset of accelerated growth. The rapid skeletal growth may account for a 4% incidence of scoliosis. General anaesthesia using halothane or enflurane in nitrous oxide and oxygen, with opioid supplementation and labetalol to induce moderate hypotension, appeared to be a satisfactory technique for corrective spinal surgery. The potential problems are discussed, with mental retardation and sometimes aggressive behaviour contraindicating a "wake-up" test. Extradural somatosensory evoked potential monitoring is a satisfactory alternative. Hook failures seem more likely than in patients undergoing surgery for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. 
Blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) and risk of fatal coronary heart disease Among the 356,222 men screened for the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial who had no history of hospitalization for heart attack at entry, more than 2,000 coronary deaths occurred during 6 years of follow-up. With this large data set, detailed cross-tabulations clearly and simply showed the strong graded relation between blood pressure and coronary heart disease death. This risk gradient was evident in each of five age groups ranging from 35 to 57 years and for levels of diastolic blood pressure ranging from less than 75 mm Hg to greater than 115 mm Hg. Systolic blood pressure was more strongly associated with coronary heart disease death than was diastolic blood pressure, and isolated systolic blood pressure elevation was found to be an important risk factor in these middle-aged men. The risk of coronary death was increased among hypertensive men who had elevated serum cholesterol levels or who smoked cigarettes. Because less than 10% of hypertensive men had cholesterol levels in the lowest quintile (below 182 mg/dl) and were nonsmokers, a multi-intervention approach for the large majority of hypertensive persons is clearly indicated. Risks of death were also substantially increased among those hypertensive men who already had end-organ damage, emphasizing the importance of early treatment to prevent such damage. These findings have implications for the design of prevention trials and clinical practice, as it is clear that systolic as well as diastolic blood pressure should be considered in treating hypertensive patients. Additionally, treatment goals should be directed at preventing not only death but many other morbid events, clinical and subclinical, that are associated with elevated blood pressure and that are preventable with appropriate treatment. 
Non-trauma mortality in elderly women with low bone mineral density. Study of Osteoporotic Fractures Research Group. 9704 ambulatory women aged 65 years or older were prospectively studied to determine whether low bone mineral density (osteopenia) was associated with mortality. Bone mineral density was measured at entry to the study by single-photon absorptiometry. 299 women died during a mean of 2.8 years' follow-up. Osteopenia was associated with increased non-trauma mortality, probably because it is a marker for several other adverse factors. Each standard deviation decrease in proximal radius bone mineral density (0.104 g/cm2) was associated with a 1.19-fold increase in mortality (95% confidence interval 1.04-1.36), adjusted for age and duration of follow-up. Diminished bone mineral density at the proximal radius was strongly associated with deaths from stroke (relative risk = 1.74; 95% CI 1.12-2.70), an association that was not confounded by history of previous stroke, hypertension, postmenopausal use of oestrogen, thiazide diuretic treatment, diabetes mellitus, and smoking. Most deaths in women with low bone mineral density are unrelated to the occurrence of fractures-an observation that should be taken into account when estimating the need for and cost-effectiveness of bone-density screening and fracture prevention programmes. 
Is deleting the digital rectal examination a good idea? Many groups have taken the position that the digital rectal examination should be discontinued as part of the annual screening physical examination. We examined the effects of not doing a digital rectal examination on the early diagnosis of prostate cancer. The average time since a previous rectal examination increased as the stage of cancer increased. The digital rectal examination proved to be a relatively insensitive test, with 40% of stage D cancers being detected initially within 12 months of the most recent examination. Nevertheless, an annual digital rectal examination did detect a greater percentage of lower stage (and thus more localized and potentially curable) cancers when repeated within 12 months. When the last rectal examination was more than 24 months previous, cancers detected were more likely to be advanced. Without a digital rectal examination, patients would have their disease detected only by the presence of symptoms. When it was done because of symptoms, 81% of our patients had stage D cancers compared with 32% of stage B and 38% of stage C patients. Without the routine use of this examination, patients with prostate cancer would be more likely to have higher stage and less potentially curable lesions at the time of diagnosis. We conclude that the digital rectal examination remains an important part of routine annual physical examinations. 
Arterial stent placement with use of the Wallstent: midterm results of clinical experience. Self-expandable stents of the Wallstent type were used in 26 iliac and 15 femoropopliteal artery lesions of 31 patients to treat stenoses or occlusions. The indications were confined to complex lesions, including residual stenoses and dissections after percutaneous procedures or previous surgery in the iliac artery lesions, and long-segment (mean, 13.5 cm) occlusions with inadequate response to percutaneous recanalization in the femoropopliteal artery lesions. In the iliac artery group, after stent placement, 96% of the lesions were patent at a mean follow-up of 16 months (range, 6-30 months). In the femoropopliteal artery group, of 11 patients available for follow-up, only six had patent stents at 7-26 months (mean, 20 months). Four of these six patients required one to three secondary interventions. Self-expanding endoprostheses are of great value in complex iliac artery lesions where simple balloon dilation is insufficient. Stent placement for long femoral artery lesions should be performed with utmost reserve, and the extent of stent placement should be as short as possible. 
Renal cell carcinoma in young and old patients. Comparison of prognostic pathologic variables (cell type, tumor grade and stage, and DNA ploidy pattern) and their impact on disease outcome. A group of 41 young patients (age less than or equal to 40 years; mean, 35.7 years) and a group of 34 old patients (age greater than or equal to 80 years; mean, 82.4 years) who underwent operation for renal cell carcinoma between 1970 and 1986 were compared. Sex, grade, and DNA ploidy pattern distributions were similar between the groups. Granular cell and papillary cancers with lower stages at presentation were more common among the young. In patients with high-stage disease, 73 percent of the older group but none of the younger had DNA diploid tumors. Low-stage clear cell carcinoma caused cancer death only in the young. Stage I nondiploid clear cell carcinomas were associated with death (33%) only in the young. Overall, death rates seem similar for both groups but among the young most (63%) occurred with low-stage disease and a nondiploid pattern only; among the old, 88 percent occurred with high-stage disease and independent of DNA ploidy pattern. 
Complications of pregnancy and delivery in relation to psychosis in adult life: data from the British perinatal mortality survey sample. OBJECTIVE--To evaluate whether events occurring at or around the time of birth contribute to the onset of psychotic illness in adult life. DESIGN-Pregnancy and birth complications as possible causes of adult mental illness were studied in the population sample of the British perinatal mortality survey. Subsequent psychiatric admissions were independently identified through the Mental Health Enquiry and records of regional and special health authorities. Logistic regression was used to compare data on perinatal deaths with those on survivors to determine factors independently associated with perinatal death, and this equation was then used to calculate the risk of perinatal death for each survivor. SUBJECTS--16,980 people born in a single week in 1958 (the British perinatal mortality survey sample), including 252 patients admitted to psychiatric care; case notes of 235 patients were supplied. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS--Patients with a schizophrenic illness (whether defined by "broad" (n = 57) or "narrow" (n = 35) diagnostic criteria) did not have a greater mean risk of perinatal death than the population in general, but there was some evidence of increased liability (relative risk 2.43; 95% confidence interval 1.17 to 5.05) for those with affective psychosis (n = 32). Specific high risk variables for affective psychosis were decreased gestation time (273.9 v 281.2 days; mean difference 7.3 days, 95% confidence interval 3.1 to 11.5; p less than 0.002) and prescription of vitamin K to the child in the first week of life (19% of patients v 5% of controls, p = 0.016). CONCLUSIONS--The findings give no support to theories that factors predicting perinatal mortality contribute significantly to causation of schizophrenic illness. Further investigation of decreased gestation length in relation to affective disorder is required. 
Coronary artery thrombolysis: comparison of approved agents. Three agents approved for the lysis of thrombi in coronary arteries--alteplase, anistreplase and streptokinase--have undergone critical clinical experimental trials in Europe and the United States. Global comparison of their efficacy shows that alteplase is slightly more effective (71 percent) in restoring patency than anistreplase (60 percent) and streptokinase (58 percent). Streptokinase and anistreplase are allergenic, and repeat administration is not feasible in the short-term, a distinct advantage for alteplase. More accurate dosing of thrombolytic agents and skillful use of aspirin and heparin improve the efficacy of thrombolytic therapy but can also increase the risk of bleeding. A recanalization rate of 90 percent or more could be achieved if the thrombolytic agent is administered within the first hour after thrombosis. Administration this soon after the development of thrombosis may be possible if the agent is given outside the hospital by practicing physicians or, perhaps, paramedics. 
Cerebrospinal fluid protein and opening pressure in idiopathic intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri). We studied the relationship between the CSF protein concentration and the degree of elevation of the CSF opening pressure in 177 patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri). There was no linear correlation between the CSF protein and opening pressure. In addition, low CSF protein (less than 20 mg/dl) was present in only 26% of the patients. Our findings fail to confirm previous reports of an inverse relationship between the CSF opening pressure and CSF protein as well as low CSF protein in these patients. 
Delayed presentation of a carotid-cavernous sinus fistula in a patient with traumatic brain injury. Carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas are rare complications of traumatic brain injury, facial trauma and postorthognathic surgery. A high level of clinical suspicion is necessary, particularly for patients who are unable to communicate, to establish the diagnosis. A case of delayed presentation of a carotid-cavernous sinus fistula after traumatic brain injury is presented. This case illustrates that early recognition of this disorder is crucial to prevent significant morbidity. 
Hydrops fetalis in the McKusick-Kaufman syndrome: a case report. McKusick-Kaufman syndrome is an autosomal recessive multiple malformation syndrome characterized by hydrometrocolpos and polydactyly. We report on a patient with McKusick-Kaufman syndrome and severe hydrops. This case illustrates the necessity of genetic evaluations for all patients with unexplained hydrops. 
Monoclonal antibody YB5.B8 identifies the human c-kit protein product. The c-kit proto-oncogene encodes a 145- to 160-Kd transmembrane tyrosine kinase, which is a member of the platelet-derived growth factor receptor family and is allelic with the murine white spotting locus (W). W mutations affect several aspects of hematopoiesis, most notably erythroid progenitors and mast cells. A monoclonal antibody, YB5.B8, had been raised against the leukemic blasts of a patient with M1-type acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) and it precipitates a 150-Kd cell surface glycoprotein from leukemic cells. The YB5.B8 epitope is expressed on mast cells, on up to 3% of normal mononuclear bone marrow cells, and it identifies a sub-group of AML patients with a poor prognosis. In view of similarities noted between the cell surface antigen identified by YB5.B8 and the c-kit protein product, we performed experiments to determine whether they are identical. c-kit RNA expression in the cell lines HEL (human erythroleukemia) and A172 (glioblastoma) was shown to parallel the expression of the YB5.B8 epitope in these lines as measured by flow cytometry. Immunoprecipitation analysis with anti-kit serum and YB5.B8 antibody indicated that the two antibodies identified proteins of identical size in HEL (155 Kd) and A172 (145 Kd) cells, and sequential immunoprecipitations with the kit and the YB5.B8 antibodies demonstrated that the two antibodies recognize the same molecule. The proteins identified by both the anti-kit and YB5.B8 antibodies displayed in vitro autophosphorylation activity in immune complex kinase assays. In addition, YB5.B8 was able to inhibit the binding of the kit ligand to HEL cells. These studies provide evidence that the YB5.B8 antigen and the c-kit protein product are identical and raise certain hypotheses regarding the role of c-kit in AML. 
Chronic periaortitis presenting as common bile duct obstruction. The case of a 67 year old woman is reported who presented with cholestatic jaundice and was found to have, in addition, an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Only at necropsy did histopathology show chronic periaortitis as the aetiology of a pancreatic head mass which, during life, mimicked a pancreatic neoplasm obstructing the bile and pancreatic ducts. 
Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma: a clinical, pathological, and flow cytometric study. Of 345 patients with tuberous sclerosis complex evaluated at the Mayo Clinic from 1950 to 1989, 23 were identified as having brain tumors. In 20 of the 23, histological or clinical evidence showed the tumor to be a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. A search of the Mayo Clinic tissue registry yielded 73 giant cell-containing astrocytomas and intraventricular gliomas exclusive of ependymomas. Reexamination revealed no further examples of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma in patients without features of the tuberous sclerosis complex. Considerable histological variation was observed in the 15 subependymal giant cell astrocytomas subjected to critical microscopic review. It is of note that no correlation was noted between either the histological features, such as atypia, mitoses, endothelial proliferations, necrosis, or the flow cytometric characteristics and the clinical course or the survival time of the patients. 
Drivers with untreated sleep apnea. A cause of death and serious injury. Three patients with untreated sleep apnea fell asleep while driving and caused serious automobile accidents. One person died, another became permanently paraplegic, and the three patients with sleep apnea were seriously injured in these crashes. This sequela of sleep apnea is not surprising, since subjects with sleep apnea may be poor drivers with a high accident rate and a high incidence of "near-miss" vehicular incidents. Because drivers with untreated sleep apnea may cause a large number of preventable automobile accidents, physicians have specific duties involving these drivers. First, physicians must try to identify impaired drivers with sleep apnea before they have an accident; routinely asking patients about loud snoring and hypersomnolence may help identify these impaired drivers. Second, physicians must consider the diagnosis of sleep apnea when examining patients who fall asleep while driving. Next, physicians must warn their patients with sleep apnea about the risks of driving with untreated sleep apnea. Finally, physicians must treat any seriously impaired driver with sleep apnea and keep these patients from driving until they can receive successful treatment. 
Chronic Cryptosporidium parvum infections in congenitally immunodeficient SCID and nude mice. Severe combined immune deficient (SCID) and athymic National Institutes of Health (NIH)-III (bg/nu/xid) mice were evaluated for susceptibility to Cryptosporidium parvum infections as neonates and as adults after challenge with inocula of 5 x 10(4) and 1 x 10(6) oocysts/mouse, respectively. SCID and NIH-III nude mice developed chronic infections that persisted over 12 weeks. Cryptosporidial organisms were observed in the small and large intestines of all mice. Colonization of the gallbladder and hepatobiliary duct epithelium occurred in a majority of the NIH-III nude mice and a smaller number of the SCID mice. Severe infections in both mouse strains were associated with clinical deterioration followed by death. Signs in these mice included dehydration, icterus, and emaciation. Deaths apparently resulted from hepatic dysfunction. Control mice experienced transient infections with no clinical signs. Immunodeficient mice should prove useful in studies of disease pathogenesis and in evaluating potential anticryptosporidial agents. 
Basaloid monomorphic adenomas. Monomorphic adenomas can be divided into basaloid and nonbasaloid type. With the exception of the canalicular adenoma, the basaloid monomorphic adenomas are preponderantly tumors of the major salivary glands, most often the parotid gland. The dermal analogue monomorphic adenomas, so named because of their histologic similarity to eccrine tumors of the skin, are a unique subset of the basaloid adenomas. They are often multifocal, recur frequently, may undergo malignant change, and can be part of a salivary-cutaneous tumor diathesis. 
Increased all-cause and cardiac morbidity and mortality associated with the diagonal earlobe crease: a prospective cohort study. PURPOSE: To ascertain whether the diagonal earlobe crease (ELC) is associated prospectively with future death or cardiac events over 8 years of follow-up in two sets of patients: those with known coronary artery disease (CAD) and those without evidence for CAD. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a prospective, observational study of 108 patients in four cohorts (each matched for age, sex, and race, but differing in the presence or absence of both a diagonal ELC and CAD in 1979 to 1982). Follow-up information was gathered by telephone interviews, and dates and causes of death were determined by reference to death certificates (n = 48), hospital records (n = 9), or attending physician statements (n = 1). RESULTS: During 8 to 10 years of follow-up, 58 of the patients had died. Patients with ELCs had poorer survival rates than those without creases, by stratified log-rank test (p = 0.006 for the cohorts thought not to have CAD, and p = 0.058 for those with CAD). Cardiac death rates (due to acute myocardial infarction, "sudden cardiac death," or heart failure) were also higher for patients with ELCs: 8.0 versus 0.9 cardiac deaths per 100 patient-years (p less than 0.001) in patients without CAD at entry, and 11.7 versus 3.7 cardiac deaths per 100 patient-years (p = 0.008) in patients with CAD in 1979 to 1982. Cardiac event rates (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or coronary artery bypass surgery) were also higher in those with ELCs: 10.4 versus 1.4 events per 100 patient-years (p less than 0.001) for those without known CAD, and 15.8 versus 5.7 events per 100 patient-years (p = 0.009) for those with CAD. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that a diagonal ELC is associated with increased all-cause and cardiac morbidity and mortality. Patients with ELCs may be at higher risk for coronary events, and might be especially cautioned to control or reduce other cardiac risk factors, even if currently without diagnostic evidence of CAD. 
Intratumoral DNA content variability. A study of non-small cell lung cancer. Twenty-eight resected primary non-small cell lung carcinomas were studied for intratumoral DNA variability by flow cytometry (FCM). Three separate tissue specimens from each resected tumor were divided equally for FCM analysis and histologic evaluation. FCM analysis also was performed on fine-needle aspirates (FNAs) from the center of the resected tumor. Histologically, there were 8 squamous carcinomas, 19 adenocarcinomas, and 1 large cell carcinoma. Twenty-three tumors (82%) were aneuploid, and 5 (18%) were diploid. The DNA index in aneuploid neoplasms ranged from 0.91 to 3.30 (mean, 1.64). All 5 diploid and 19 (83%) of the (23) aneuploid neoplasms manifested intratumoral DNA stability. Four (17%) of the aneuploid tumors showed regional DNA heterogeneity expressed as additional stemlines in at least one sample. The FNA yield was sufficient in 21 cases and inadequate for complete analysis in 7 cases. In general, good correlation between FNA and tissue analysis was obtained. However, in three of the aneuploid neoplasms, FNA materials did not reveal an additional nondominant stemline, as noted in the tissue specimens. The authors attribute this finding to a dilutional factor in the aspiration material. The authors conclude that most non-small cell lung carcinomas express DNA stability; FNA provides adequate cellular material for FCM in most cases. 
Balloon angioplasty for recurrent coarctation of aorta. Immediate and long-term results BACKGROUND. As angioplasty techniques have been refined and larger low-profile balloons developed, a nonsurgical approach to recoarctation has become available. Several reports have documented both the efficacy and safety of this procedure. However, there are little data available on the long-term follow-up of these patients. This report details the initial results and long-term evaluation of both the relief of obstruction and the presence of hypertension after balloon angioplasty for recurrent coarctation. METHODS AND RESULTS. Balloon angioplasty for recurrent coarctation of the aorta was performed 29 times in 26 patients at a median age of 4 years and 9 months (range, 4 months to 29 years), with eight patients less than 1 year old. Initial surgical techniques were end-to-end anastomosis in 11 patients, subclavian flap aortoplasty in 11 patients, and patch aortoplasty in four patients. Angioplasty was performed at a median interval of 2 years and 7 months (range, 4 months to 23 years) after surgery. Mean peak systolic pressure difference across the coarctation decreased from 40.0 +/- 16.8 to 10.3 +/- 9.5 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) after the initial angioplasty, and mean diameter of the aortic lumen at the coarctation site increased from 5.8 +/- 3.5 to 9.0 +/- 4.3 mm (p less than 0.05). There was no mortality, and only one patient developed an aneurysm (4%). Three patients underwent repeat angioplasty for a pressure difference of more than 20 mm Hg. Long-term follow-up is available on 24 of 26 patients with a mean follow-up of 42 +/- 24 months (range, 12-88 months). Mean peak systolic pressure difference across the area of coarctation decreased from 40.3 +/- 17.4 before angioplasty to 8.5 +/- 8.3 mm Hg after final angioplasty (p less than 0.05) and 7.5 +/- 7.5 mm Hg at follow-up. Mean peak systolic blood pressure in the upper extremities decreased from 133.1 +/- 14.9 before angioplasty to 111.1 +/- 14.1 mm Hg at long-term follow-up (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. Balloon angioplasty should be considered the treatment of choice for relief of recurrent aortic coarctation. 
Health risks of foreign travel. Preparing adults for jaunts abroad. Preparing adult travelers for journeys abroad can be challenging and rewarding. Prevention is the cornerstone of a safe, enjoyable trip. Patient education and commonsense precautions may well prevent infection or disease. Prophylaxis for diarrhea and malaria could save one day of illness or inconvenience on an expensive trip or may save a traveler's life. And the Loa loa worm? The nurse fortunately waited until it crawled from under her cornea. Then it was gently teased from under the bulbar conjunctiva. 
Diagnosis and treatment of muscle contraction (tension-type) headaches. Acute tension-type headache is a very common condition that rarely is a problem in treatment. Chronic tension-type headache, however, is often a difficult therapeutic problem. The pathogenesis is not well understood, but both peripheral muscle contraction and central pain-modulating systems are probably involved. Therapy usually works best when multiple techniques are used, including pharmacologic, psychological, and physiologic modalities. 
Propranolol in the management of recurrent migraine: a meta-analytic review. We used meta-analytic statistical techniques to synthesize findings from studies that evaluated propranolol HCI for the prevention of recurrent migraine (2,403 treated patients). The modal migraine sufferer treated in these studies was a female, about 37 years of age, who suffered from common (rather than classical) migraines and reported a 17-year history of problem migraines. The modal treatment was 160 mg. propranolol per day. Meta-analysis revealed that, on average, propranolol yielded a 44% reduction in migraine activity when daily headache recordings were used to assess treatment outcome, and a 65% reduction in migraine activity when less conservative measures (e.g., clinical ratings of improvement, global patient reports) were used. Meta-analysis thus revealed substantial support for short-term effectiveness of propranolol. However, little information was available concerning the long-term effectiveness of propranolol. 
Increased cisplatin tissue levels with prolonged arterial infusion in the rat. Prolonged arterial infusions of cisplatin (DDP) have been effective in the treatment of regionally confined malignancies. It is unclear whether the route or schedule of DDP administration was responsible for the observed therapeutic benefit. To resolve this issue, tumor and normal tissue platinum (Pt) levels were determined in rats bearing hind-limb rat mammary tumors after intravenous (IV) and intra-arterial (IA) DDP infusions of constant dose and varying lengths. Infusions of DDP at 6 mg/kg were conducted IA over 30 minutes, and 3, 6, 24, and 48 hours and IV over 30 minutes and 48 hours. After infusion, Pt concentrations in solubilized tissue homogenates were measured by flameless atomic absorption spectroscopy. Maximum tumor Pt levels were seen after 48-hour IA infusion (29.3 micrograms Pt/mg tissue). IA infusions of 24 hours or less resulted in significantly lower Pt levels. Maximum tumor Pt concentration after IV administration was only 0.98 micrograms/mg tissue (48-hour infusion). Muscle Pt levels adjacent to the tumor were highest in the IA infused extremities, but at the 48-hour interval, were 53-fold less than tumor levels. Tumor and adjacent muscle Pt levels were not significantly different from each other after IV administration. This study provides pharmacologic evidence that lengthening the duration of IA DDP infusion increases tumor levels of Pt over that of IV or rapid IA administrations. The benefit of prolonged IA DDP infusions is dependent upon both route and schedule of drug administration. 
Acute and chronic hypothermia in a man with spinal cord injury: environmental and pharmacologic causes. It is well known that people with spinal cord injuries can develop hypothermia when exposed to an unusually cold environment. Hypothermia can also develop during inpatient rehabilitation, particularly as a side effect of certain medications. We present a patient with C4 incomplete spinal cord injury whose core body temperature was chronically subnormal, and who developed acute hypothermia on several occasions during inpatient rehabilitation. The results of tests of his autonomic function were abnormal. Acute hypothermia (core temperature approximately 34C) was induced when he was challenged with nifedipine. The serum level of phenytoin became elevated to toxic levels during two episodes of acute hypothermia, but the serum level of carbamazepine did not change appreciably. This case demonstrates that people with spinal cord injuries are at risk for hypothermia, that hypothermia can be induced by nifedipine, and that significant thermal challenges can occur during routine inpatient rehabilitation. In addition, hypothermia appears to affect the metabolism of phenytoin. 
Survival in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. Results from a national prospective registry. OBJECTIVE: To characterize mortality in persons diagnosed with primary pulmonary hypertension and to investigate factors associated with survival. DESIGN: Registry with prospective follow-up. SETTING: Thirty-two clinical centers in the United States participating in the Patient Registry for the Characterization of Primary Pulmonary Hypertension supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. PATIENTS: Patients (194) diagnosed at clinical centers between 1 July 1981 and 31 December 1985 and followed through 8 August 1988. MEASUREMENTS: At diagnosis, measurements of hemodynamic variables, pulmonary function, and gas exchange variables were taken in addition to information on demographic variables, medical history, and life-style. Patients were followed for survival at 6-month intervals. MAIN RESULTS: The estimated median survival of these patients was 2.8 years (95% Cl, 1.9 to 3.7 years). Estimated single-year survival rates were as follows: at 1 year, 68% (Cl, 61% to 75%); at 3 years, 48% (Cl, 41% to 55%); and at 5 years, 34% (Cl, 24% to 44%). Variables associated with poor survival included a New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class of III or IV, presence of Raynaud phenomenon, elevated mean right atrial pressure, elevated mean pulmonary artery pressure, decreased cardiac index, and decreased diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO). Drug therapy at entry or discharge was not associated with survival duration. CONCLUSIONS: Mortality was most closely associated with right ventricular hemodynamic function and can be characterized by means of an equation using three variables: mean pulmonary artery pressure, mean right atrial pressure, and cardiac index. Such an equation, once validated prospectively, could be used as an adjunct in planning treatment strategies and allocating medical resources. 
Cervical necrotizing fasciitis of odontogenic origin. Necrotizing fasciitis is a severe soft tissue infection caused by both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria and is characterized by a rapid extension along fascial planes and by necrosis of soft tissues. The disease rarely occurs in the head and neck. Three cases of necrotizing fasciitis of the neck after a dental infection are presented. The difficulty in diagnosing the early stage of this condition in relation to other soft tissue infections of odontogenic origin in the neck is discussed. The importance of an early diagnosis followed by an appropriate combination of medical, surgical, and dental treatment is emphasized. 
Longitudinal study of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in hypertensive pregnant women: deviations related to the development of superimposed preeclampsia. A prospective longitudinal study of 25 pregnant women (30 pregnancies) with chronic hypertension, a group prone to development of preeclampsia, was conducted to explore the relationship between the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and the development of superimposed preeclampsia. In women with chronic hypertension in whom preeclampsia did not develop (17 pregnancies), blood pressure decreased and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was stimulated, beginning in the first trimester and continuing throughout pregnancy as found previously in normotensive pregnant women (n = 58). Plasma estradiol and progesterone levels also increased progressively. In women with chronic hypertension in whom preeclampsia developed (13 pregnancies), blood pressure decreased and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was stimulated in the first trimester as in the other groups. However, later in pregnancy significant differences were observed. Blood pressure began to rise in the second trimester. Initially the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system remained stimulated, but in the early third trimester, when preeclampsia was diagnosed, plasma renin activity and urine aldosterone excretion decreased, and atrial natriuretic factor increased. These data provide information that may be useful in the recognition of superimposed preeclampsia, and in the investigation of its pathogenesis. 
An unusual presentation of salmonellal aortitis. Our patient represents what we believe to be the first documented case of Salmonella choleraesuis aortitis presenting as a salmonellal empyema in an elderly diabetic man. Although S choleraesuis often causes septicemia, its absence should not lead one to forget the pathogenic nature of and high mortality associated with this organism. Aggressive efforts must be made to search for endovascular infection, because cures can be achieved only with surgical intervention and prolonged antibiotic therapy. 
Traumatic asphyxia and blunt cardiac injury: case report and selected review. An unusual case is described featuring traumatic asphyxia and blunt cardiac injury. An association between these is possible but not previously described. Coronary artery contusion, malignant arrhythmias, and a normal electrocardiogram were also noted and discussed. The relevant literature was reviewed. 
Insulin resistance and hypertension. While clinicians have long recognized the apparent increased prevalence of hypertension among diabetics, sophisticated epidemiological analyses begun in the early 1970s have established that hypertensive individuals are more prone to hyperinsulinemia and glucose intolerance than normotensive individuals. Subsequently, the several hypertensinogenic effects of insulin were carefully studied in a number of laboratories. Most recently, the association of these two relatively common cardiovascular risk factors, hypertension and insulin resistance, was broadened to include lipid abnormalities, namely, increased concentrations of very low density lipoprotein triglycerides and decreased concentrations of high density lipoprotein cholesterol. These abnormalities, all of which appear in association more commonly than would be expected by chance, clearly predispose affected individuals to increased cardiovascular risk. This review summarizes our current understanding of the mechanisms underlying the relations between insulin resistance and hypertension and focuses discussion on the role of insulin as a common link between them. It concludes with recommendations, based on today's knowledge, for behavioral and therapeutic interventions aimed at the prevention of increased cardiovascular risk. 
Direct mechanical ventricular actuation for cardiac arrest in humans. A clinical feasibility trial Direct mechanical ventricular actuation (DMVA) is a non-blood-contacting method of biventricular cardiac massage which may be applied expediently for total circulatory support. The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of DMVA application for patients suffering refractory cardiac arrest. Following informed consent, DMVA was applied in 22 patients. Vascular access for hemodynamic monitoring was possible in only 12 patients, whose outcomes serve as the basis for this report. The mean age of the patients was 48.2 +/- 4.2 years (seven men; five women). The average time from witnessed cardiac arrest to DMVA application was 81 +/- 9 minutes. Application took less than two minutes from the time of skin incision and resulted in immediate hemodynamic improvement. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures averaged 78 +/- 4 and 41 +/- 4 mm Hg, respectively, with a mean cardiac output of 3.14 +/- 0.18 L/min during a mean of 228 +/- 84 minutes of circulatory support (range, 25 minutes to 18 hours). In selected cases the device was temporarily removed for 2 to 3 minutes and open-chest cardiac massage (OCCM) performed at similar compression rates. DMVA increased arterial pressures 65 percent and cardiac output 190 percent compared to OCCM. Initial arterial pH (7.12 +/- 0.04) improved by the time the device was removed (7.24 +/- 0.05). Serum lactate levels decreased from 18.0 +/- 2.3 mumol/L to 14.9 +/- 2.9 mumol/L. Four patients were successfully defibrillated: two had inadequate cardiac function and died within 1 h, and two were successfully resuscitated, but later died from cardiac failure and respiratory insufficiency. Another patient regained normal neurologic function during DMVA and was successfully bridged to cardiopulmonary bypass for emergent coronary artery bypass grafting, but died later from myocardial infarction. There were only two complications: (1) a cardiac laceration during pericardiotomy (1/22 patients); and (2) a ventricular rupture during OCCM (1/22). No complication resulted from the device. We found DMVA to be a feasible method for acute cardiovascular stabilization in victims suffering refractory cardiac arrest. Human clinical trials employing earlier DMVA application are required to determine its resuscitative potential. 
Effects of preoperative electrical stimulability and historical factors on performance with multichannel cochlear implant. We investigated the relationship between results of preoperative transtympanic electrical promontory stimulation, duration of deafness, postoperative implanted psychophysical results, and postoperative speech and speech sound recognition as indicated by a battery of five tests. Our subjects were 10 patients implanted with the Cochlear Corporation multielectrode implant, 1 year postimplantation, with a minimum of 17 active electrodes programmed in the bipolar + 1 mode. The results indicated that preoperative promontory thresholds, the slope of the threshold function, and the duration of auditory deprivation are excellent predictors of postoperative speech and speech sound recognition in the auditory (processor alone) mode. These results have significant implications for patient selection and counseling. 
Diagnosing and treating common oral pathologies. When the physician is confronted with an oral pathologic condition in a child, the adage "common things happen commonly" should be applied. Congenital lesions such as palatal and alveolar cysts occur in almost 50% of newborns. Developmental conditions such as Fordyce granules and retrocuspid papillae are found in most children. Localized soft-tissue enlargements commonly seen in young children include the parulis, mucocele, papilloma, and inflammatory gingival tumors. In addition, soft-tissue pathologies and discomfort associated with herpesvirus infections or recurrent aphthous ulcerations often present as a chief complaint. The physician's knowledge and treatment recommendations for common oral pathologies should be an integral component to the overall medical management of infants, children, and adolescents. 
Exercise. Practical treatment for the patient with depression and chronic fatigue. Exercise should be part of everyone's lifestyle, but may be a particularly important part of the treatment of patients with depression and chronic fatigue. It will reliably and consistently decrease feelings of tiredness and despondency, although it is seldom sufficient as a sole treatment intervention for such patients. When initiating an exercise program, a baseline assessment should be followed by an exercise prescription and an appropriate degree of patient education about exercise physiology. This should be followed, in addition to other treatment interventions, by regular follow-up visits to make appropriate adjustments; provide encouragement and motivation to continue; monitor weight, body fat, and nutrition; and assess the effectiveness of the program on the underlying problem. 
Extrapleural pneumonectomy, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy in the treatment of diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma. Malignant pleural mesothelioma has been considered a uniformly fatal disease associated with a median survival of 4 to 18 months. Extrapleural pneumonectomy alone has proved disappointing in the treatment of this disease, as have chemotherapy and radiotherapy. From 1980 to 1990, 31 patients with pleural mesothelioma underwent multimodality therapy that included extrapleural pneumonectomy with resection of the pericardium and diaphragm. The age of the patients was 53.4 +/- 8.6 years; 26 were male. All patients had the pathologic diagnosis reviewed before treatment. At thoracotomy six patients had residual (unresectable) gross disease, and in 23 there was histologic evidence of disease at the resection margin. The perioperative morbidity and mortality rates were 19% and 6%, respectively. The mean length of hospital stay for the 29 patients who survived the operation was 10.9 +/- 3.5 days. Postoperatively 26 patients received cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cis-platinum chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. The survival rates were 70% at 1 year and 48% at 2 years. Trends toward improved survival in the patients with complete resections approached but did not reach statistical significance. These data suggest that this multimodality protocol can be administered with acceptable morbidity and mortality. Prospective trials are justified to further clarify the role of this approach. 
Oncogene expression and oral cancer. Cancer of the oral cavity remains a major problem in the United States as well as in many other countries, some of which record as much as 30% of all their cancers to be in the oral region. Despite numerous advances in the fields of epidemiology and etiology, little is known of the molecular basis of oral cancer. Advances in the field of oncogenes have produced a tool to study the different stages of carcinogenesis, including transition from premalignant to malignant stages. These strategies have direct relevance to oral cancer where the premalignant stage is well defined. Preliminary studies into the expression and function of oncogenes suggest abnormalities including individual and multiple amplification of three or more types of these genes. This review briefly describes the concept of oncogenes, and their possible role in the development of neoplasia and specifically on studies in oral cancer. 
Effect of antibiotics on food intake and absorption of nutrients for children with diarrhea due to Shigella. The effect of antibiotic therapy on intake of food and absorption of nutrients for 19 male children aged 1-5 years with suspected shigella infection was studied. The children were admitted to the hospital with acute diarrhea, high fever, abdominal pain, and greater than or equal to 25 red blood cells and white blood cells per high-power field in the stool. Microbiologic diagnosis was made within 48 hours of admission. On the basis of clinical and microbiologic criteria, children were classified as having mild or severe infection. Ten children with mild infection did not receive antibiotics, whereas nine children with severe infection were treated with ampicillin. After the children were rehydrated, a 72-hour balance study was carried out during the acute stage of infection with Shigella and was repeated 2 weeks after recovery. The levels of consumption of food and absorption of nutrients were estimated. During the acute stage of infection, such levels were higher for the children treated with antibiotics than for the untreated group. During the recovery phase, the levels of intake of food and absorption of nutrients were equal for both groups. Thus, children who are treated with appropriate antibiotics not only may recover from infection with Shigella more rapidly, but they also may be able to absorb nutrients more efficiently. 
Spontaneous common iliac arteriovenous fistula manifested by acute renal failure: a case report. Arteriovenous fistulas between the common iliac vessels resulting from spontaneous rupture of aneurysms are rare, with only 31 cases having been reported since 1971. Clinical diagnosis is possible when a unique set of findings is present, namely high-output cardiac failure, a pulsatile abdominal mass associated with a bruit or thrill, and unilateral arterial insufficiency or venous engorgement. Recently, with advancements in diagnostic techniques, the number of cases in which an arteriovenous fistula is found between the common iliac vessels has increased. Diagnosis can be difficult, however, as in the case of one of our patients in whom the predominant sign was acute renal failure. Other reports of renal failure or impairment in the presence of a common iliac fistula have also appeared. Awareness of this phenomenon can help the physician to establish the diagnosis when one or more of the classic signs are absent. Prompt diagnosis and surgical management have contributed to the high incidence of survival in patients with arteriovenous fistulas between the common iliac vessels. 
Insulinopenia as a risk factor in hepatectomy and its resolution by intraportal insulin administration. Insulopenia is a possible risk factor in hepatectomy, especially since insulin has been recognized to have a significant hepatotrophic effect. In the current study, insulinopenic patients were defined as those who showed abnormally low insulinogenic indexes (less than 0.6) on the oral glucose tolerance test, compared with those in 22 normal volunteers (1.16 +/- 0.57, mean +/- SD). The insulinogenic index represents the ratio of the cumulative enhancement of immunoreactive insulin (IRI) to the glucose level (delta IRI/delta glucose). Surgical outcomes were studied retrospectively in 17 insulinopenic patients who underwent hepatic resections from January 1987 to July 1988. Six of 10 patients in the major hepatic resection group showed postoperative complications, 5 of whom experienced hepatic failure resulting in hospital death. By contrast, all seven patients in the minor resection group tolerated the operations. From August 1988, intraportal insulin was prospectively administered as a posthepatectomy management technique to nine patients, eight of whom were diagnosed as insulinopenic. These patients all tolerated major hepatic resections including four hepatic vascular exclusion procedures with veno-venous bypass. In conclusion, the current study indicates that insulinopenic patients are high-risk candidates for major hepatic resection and that intraportal insulin administration has a beneficial effect on the postoperative management of these patients. 
Sugar in the reduction of incarcerated prolapsed bowel. Report of two cases. Incarcerated, prolapsed rectum, colostomies, and ileostomies, when viable, may be reduced using ordinary table sugar. The placing of sugar granules on the incarcerated bowel results in a decrease in tissue edema and spontaneous bowel reduction. The technique, case reports, and a review of the literature are herein reported. 
Modification of the Bankart reconstruction with a suture anchor. Report of a new technique. We assessed the effectiveness of a new suture anchor that has been designed to anchor sutures into a blind, straight hole drilled in bone. The strength of fixation in glenoid bone is 67 N for the No. 0 anchor and suture, and 82 N for the No. 2 device with suture. During 1988 and 1989, 32 patients underwent a modified Bankart reconstruction for recurrent anterior glenohumeral instability at two centers as part of a prospective study of this modified technique. There were no complications as a result of the technique. The four surgeons involved agreed that the suture anchor simplified the procedure. Seventeen patients have been reviewed, with more than 1 year followup. Ninety-four percent had good to excellent results according to the Bankart rating scale. There was one recurrent dislocation in a football player. 
Clinical implications of late proven patency after successful coronary angioplasty. BACKGROUND. The introduction of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) has changed the pattern of intervention in coronary artery disease. However, the long-term results in patients undergoing successful, elective, native-vessel PTCA are not yet fully characterized. Because the healing and subsequent proliferative response after angioplasty are time related, it was the purpose of the present study to determine the long-term outcome in patients whose dilated arteries have been demonstrated to be patent 4-12 months after successful, uncomplicated PTCA. METHODS AND RESULTS. The patients were grouped on the basis of the 4-12 month catheterization into those whose vessels were angiographically "normal" or had luminal irregularities only at the PTCA sites (396 patients), those whose vessels also had luminal irregularities elsewhere with or without PTCA site luminal irregularities (680 patients), and those with significant obstructive disease (more than 50% diameter narrowing) at sites other than the PTCA sites (426 patients). Of 1,502 such patients, long-term follow-up was available in 1,491. At the time of the original angioplasty, the normal patients had a 1.8% incidence of multivessel disease; luminal irregularity patients, 9.4%; and obstructive disease patients, 58.7%. At angiographic restudy, 16.4% of the obstructive disease patients continued to have multivessel disease. The patients were followed for the events of death, myocardial infarction, coronary surgery, and repeat PTCA. The 6-year survival rate was 95%; cardiac survival, 96%; and freedom from all events, 65%. The strongest correlate of events during follow-up was the angiographic status of the undilated segments. At 6 years, freedom from cardiac events was noted in 77% of the normal group, 61% of the luminal irregularity group, and 55% of the obstructive disease group. Diabetes and hypertension were also independent correlates of events. CONCLUSIONS. Results from the present study show that associated disease in undilated segments is a strong predictor of late events in patients after successful, uncomplicated, reatenosis-free PTCA. However, the need for further revascularization was frequent even in patients without obstructive disease. Completeness of revascularization is appropriate when possible, and limiting progression of coronary disease at sites remote from those dilated should improve on these late results. 
Eosinophiluria in atheroembolic renal disease. PURPOSE AND PATIENTS: Eosinophiluria has been reported in acute interstitial nephritis and other renal diseases, but its presence in atheroembolic renal disease (AERD) has not been previously established. AERD has been identified as a cause of acute and chronic renal failure, particularly in elderly patients with advanced atherosclerosis and in those patients who have undergone manipulation or intervention of the abdominal aorta, renal artery, or coronary artery. The definitive diagnosis is made by renal biopsy. However, many patients are too acutely ill to tolerate renal biopsy and, in recent years, peripheral eosinophilia, hypocomplementemia, and thrombocytopenia have been recognized in association with AERD. Previous studies have reported that AERD is associated with an inactive renal sediment and an absence of urine eosinophils. We reviewed our experience over a 4-year period with 24 patients with renal biopsy-proven AERD. RESULTS: Urine eosinophils were evaluated in nine patients to help determine the cause of their renal deterioration. Seven of these patients presented with evidence of vascular disease. Three patients had procedures involving manipulation of the abdominal aorta. Physical examination revealed findings of atheroembolism in three of nine patients. Overall, eight of nine patients had a positive Hansel's stain for eosinophiluria. Six of eight patients had more than 5% of their urinary white cell count as eosinophils. The reason for failure of previous studies to detect eosinophiluria in AERD is unclear but may have been related to the use of Wright's stain instead of Hansel's stain. CONCLUSION: In the evaluation of acute renal insufficiency, eosinophiluria may indicate AERD in addition to the other known causes for this finding. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and the risk for chronic renal disease OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the risk for chronic renal disease associated with regular use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). DESIGN: Multicenter case-control study. PATIENTS: Patients were 554 North Carolina residents (age range, 30 to 79 years) hospitalized between 1980 and 1982 with a discharge diagnosis indicating newly diagnosed chronic renal dysfunction and a serum creatinine level consistently at or above 130 mumol/L (1.5 mg/dL). Controls were 516 persons chosen randomly by telephone screening (if younger than 65 years of age) and from listings of Medicare recipients (if 65 years of age or older), frequency-matched to patients by age, race, sex, and proximity to study hospitals. MEASUREMENTS: Data on use of prescription NSAIDs and other analgesics before 1980, other risk factors, and potential confounders were obtained by telephone interviews. Patients were classified by frequency and duration of use; daily users were those who took an NSAID for at least 360 consecutive days. MAIN RESULTS: A twofold risk for chronic renal disease was associated with previous daily use of NSAIDs (adjusted odds ratio, 2.1; 95% Cl, 1.1 to 4.1). Increased risk was predominantly limited to men older than 65 years, for whom the odds ratio for daily use was 10.0 (Cl, 1.2 to 82.7) after adjusting for use of other analgesics. In other age-sex groups, the risk associated with NSAID use tended to be increased among those with heart disease or other factors that might indicate compromised renal circulation. These findings did not result from confounding by known renal disease risk factors and were not readily explained by potential biases. CONCLUSIONS: Regular use of NSAIDs may increase the risk for chronic kidney disease in some high-risk groups. With the recent over-the-counter availability and increasing popularity of NSAIDs, the possibility of an increased risk for chronic renal disease associated with their use may warrant further scrutiny. 
The fixateur interne in the reduction and stabilization of thoracolumbar spine fractures in patients with neurologic deficit. A prospective analysis of 80 consecutive patients who underwent stabilization with the fixateur interne for thoracolumbar spine fractures with complete or incomplete paraplegia was undertaken to determine the results after bone healing. Follow-up examination at an average of 35 months (minimum, 24 months) included all 76 patients still alive. One patient died from a pulmonary embolism, and there were three other unrelated deaths. The mean wedge angle of the fractured vertebra was corrected from 17.4 degrees to 7.9 degrees and remained almost unchanged after 1 year (8.4 degrees) and 2 years, or 1 year after implant removal (8.2 degrees). Also, the wedge index showed nearly no bony loss of correction within the reduced fracture vertebra (0.61 before operation, 0.83 after operation; 0.81 at 1-year follow-up, 0.81 at 2-year follow-up, respectively). In the kyphosis angle measured by the Cobb method, however, there was a loss of 5 degrees after implant removal within the next year because of the disc space collapsed above the fractured vertebra. In this series, 70% of the cases had no formal fusion. All 29 cases of translational displacement of 4-36 mm were anatomically reduced. No neurologic or vascular complication occurred. Posterolateral fusion or transpedicular interbody fusion in the disrupted disc space is recommended. 
Somato-somatic referred pain caused by suprasegmental spinal cord tumor. Tactile stimulation of a coin-sized area in a T-2 dermatome consistently triggered a lancinating pain in the ipsilateral C-8 dermatome in a 38-year-old woman. The SEP and an MRI led to a diagnosis of a tumor at the left cervico-medullary junction, much higher than the clinically suspected level. Surgical exploration revealed an exophytic glioma, and the pain was abolished postoperatively. Ephaptic transmission at the tumor site was suspected as a pathophysiologic mechanism. 
Nasogastric feeding at home: acceptability and safety. A questionnaire was administered to 70 families with experience of home enteral nutrition. All but one patient received at least some of their feeding overnight. During 11,041 patient days of home enteral nutrition, no serious complications were seen. Sleep disturbance was common, however, and affected 59 parents and 35 children. A nocturnal cough or 'chestiness' were noted in 10 children suggesting occult gastro-oesophageal reflux. Enteral feeding disposables were not prescribable by general practitioners, and funding for the equipment was inadequate in the hospital and community. The mean time to arrange funding for equipment was eight months (range two weeks to two years). Parental views on home enteral nutrition were positive and none felt that its disadvantages outweighed the benefits. Altogether 35 children were described as being more happy and active. Given adequate preparation and continued support at home, parents can manage home enteral nutrition safely and effectively. 
The role of beta 2-microglobulin in peptide binding by class I molecules. Efficient transport of class I major histocompatibility complex molecules to the cell surface requires association of the class I heavy chain with endogenous peptide and the class I light chain, beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2M). A mutant cell line deficient in beta 2M transports low amounts of nonpeptide-associated heavy chains to the cell surface that can associate with exogenously provided beta 2M and synthetic peptide antigens. Normal beta 2M-sufficient cells grown in serum-free media devoid of beta 2M also require an exogenous source of beta 2M to efficiently bind synthetic peptide. Thus, class I molecules on normal cells do not spontaneously bind or exchange peptides. 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome: occurrence in a child after reconstructive surgery. The occurrence of the rare but potentially fatal neuroleptic malignant syndrome must be considered by the surgeon treating a patient who develops hyperthermia, mental abnormalities, autonomic instability, and muscle rigidity after exposure to phenothiazines or other neuroleptic drugs. The dopamine agonist bromocriptine appears to be the treatment of choice in adults and seemed to be effective and well tolerated in our patient. Although the syndrome cannot be prevented, recognition is crucial, since effective general and specific therapy is available. Differentiating neuroleptic malignant syndrome from malignant hyperthermia allows early appropriate treatment with bromocriptine. 
Celiomesenteric anomaly and aneurysm: clinical and etiologic features. The development of aneurysmal disease involving the rarely encountered celiomesenteric anomaly is extremely unusual. Aneurysmal disease of the celiac or superior mesenteric arteries is itself an extremely uncommon finding, accounting for less than 10% of all visceral artery aneurysms. The existence of aneurysmal disease involving a celiomesenteric anomaly has been alluded to only briefly in two previous clinical reports. We review the case of a young woman with aneurysmal disease involving a common celiomesenteric trunk. The patient underwent excision of the aneurysm with successful vascular reconstruction. Although extremely unusual, the development of this extremely rare lesion can be predicted on the basis of specific etiologic theories. Variations in the patterns of embryologic formation of the visceral arteries account for the development of celiomesenteric anomalies, whereas atherosclerosis, medial degeneration, and infection lead to the development of most visceral aneurysms. Surgical treatment of celiac or mesenteric aneurysms is almost always indicated. Awareness of potential vascular anomalies and patterns of collateral circulation are necessary for appropriate surgical intervention. 
Thymic tumorigenesis induced by overexpression of p56lck. The lck gene encodes a membrane-associated protein tyrosine kinase (p56lck) that is believed to participate in lymphocyte-specific signal transduction pathways. To investigate the function of this molecule, transgenic mice were generated carrying the wild-type lck gene or a mutated lck gene encoding a constitutively activated form of p56lck (p56lckF505). Transgene expression in thymocytes was achieved in each case using the lck proximal promoter element. Mice expressing high levels of either p56lckF505 or p56lckY505 reproducibly developed thymic tumors. The sensitivity of thymocytes to p56lck-induced transformation suggests that disturbances in lck expression may contribute to the pathogenesis of some human neoplastic diseases. 
Nutritional support in the injured patient. After injury, the stress reaction causes hypermetabolism and consequent depletion of the body's tissues. Nutritional support should be begun early and should be given by the enteral route if possible. New developments may allow the modulation of the stress and immune responses by nutrient therapy. 
Intracerebral hemorrhage: external validation and extension of a model for prediction of 30-day survival. We report validation of a previously reported logistic regression model for predicting 30-day survival after supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage using independent, prospectively collected data. The original model, using initial Glasgow Coma Scale score, hemorrhage size, and pulse pressure, accounted for mortality or survival at 30 days in 92% of patients in the Pilot Stroke Data Bank with a sensitivity of 0.84 and a specificity of 0.96. For external validation, the model was used to predict 30-day status for each patient in the Main Phase Stroke Data Bank for whom complete risk factor information was available. Overall, 90% of patients' outcomes were correctly predicted with a sensitivity of 0.85 and a specificity of 0.92. Two factors not collected in the Pilot Stroke Data Bank, hyperglycemia and intraventricular hemorrhage extension, were assessed to determine if they provided additional predictive information on 30-day mortality. Intraventricular hemorrhage extension contributed significant predictive information in a logistic regression, whereas hyperglycemia did not. The resulting four-factor model with an interaction term (intraventricular hemorrhage extension and Glasgow Coma Scale score) correctly classified the survival status of 94% of patients at 30 days. A more general outcome, death or failure to achieve a "good" Activities of Daily Living Score by one year, was analyzed with respect to the same four factors. The resulting model correctly classified 95% of the patients in the cohort. 
Concentration of digoxin-like immunoreactive substance in patients with preeclampsia and its relation to severity of pregnancy-induced hypertension. Digoxin-like immunoreactive substance (endoxin) was measured in pregnant patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension. The mean level was significantly higher than that in healthy control subjects (p less than 0.001). Patients with eclampsia had a significantly higher concentration than did women with preeclampsia (p less than 0.03). A positive significant correlation was found between concentration of digoxin-like immunoreactive substance and the value of the index of gestosis of von Goecke and Schwabe (p less than 0.03). Analysis of patterns during various kinds of therapy revealed that nitrendipine was most effective in lowering endoxin concentration. Although an insignificant correlation was found between maternal concentration and both birth and placental weights, the compartmental differences observed seem to suggest fetoplacental origin of this substance. 
PEEP inhibits hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in dogs. The effects of an increase in alveolar pressure on hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV) have been reported variably. We therefore studied the effects of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) on pulmonary hemodynamics in 13 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs ventilated alternately in hyperoxia [inspired O2 fraction (FIO2) 0.4] and in hypoxia (FIO2 0.1). In this intact animal model, HPV was defined as the gradient between hypoxic and hyperoxic transmural (tm) mean pulmonary arterial pressure [Ppa(tm)] at any level of cardiac index (Q). Ppa(tm)/Q plots were constructed with mean transmural left atrial pressure [Pla(tm)] kept constant at approximately 6 mmHg (n = 5 dogs), and Ppa(tm)/PEEP plots were constructed with Q kept constant approximately 2.8 l.min-1.m-2 and Pla(tm) kept constant approximately 8 mmHg (n = 8 dogs). Q was manipulated using a femoral arteriovenous bypass and a balloon catheter in the inferior vena cava. Pla(tm) was held constant by a balloon catheter placed by left thoracotomy in the left atrium. Increasing PEEP, from 0 to 12 Torr by 2-Torr increments, at constant Q and Pla(tm), increased Ppa(tm) from 14 +/- 1 (SE) to 19 +/- 1 mmHg in hyperoxia but did not affect Ppa(tm) (from 22 +/- 2 to 23 +/- 1 mmHg) in hypoxia. Both hypoxia and PEEP, at constant Pla(tm), increased Ppa(tm) over the whole range of Q studied, from 1 to 5 l/min, but more at the highest than at the lowest Q and without change in extrapolated pressure intercepts. Adding PEEP to hypoxia did not affect Ppa(tm) at all levels of Q. 
Corynebacterium parvum versus bacille Calmette-Guerin adjuvant immunotherapy of stage II malignant melanoma. Two separate studies have been reported comparing Corynebacterium parvum and bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) as adjuvant immunotherapy for stage II melanoma patients (The Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 48 patients; Southeastern Cancer Study Group [SECSG], 162 patients). As the criteria for patient selection and drugs used were similar, we have pooled the data to analyze the effects of these two treatments. Both studies used BCG (Tice, Chicago, IL) 3 x 10(8) live organisms per treatment by Tine technique and C parvum (Burroughs-Wellcome, Triangle Park, NC) subcutaneous at a dose of 4 mg/m2 (SECSG) or 5 micrograms/m2 (Hershey) per treatment. The only difference in these studies was the frequency of immunization, with patients in Hershey receiving 22 doses and the SECSG patients receiving 55 doses during the 2-year period of treatment. Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis for the 210 patients shows a prolonged disease-free interval for patients treated with C parvum (P = .02, two-sided Mantel procedure). In similar fashion, patients treated with C parvum had an improved survival rate (from all causes) when compared with BCG-treated patients (P = .012). An analysis of the results for the 170 patients for which the number of positive nodes was available was performed using Cox's model, with nodes as a stratification variable and with covariates of place, treatment, age, and sex. In this analysis, an observed benefit for C parvum on the disease-free interval had a P value of .37 while the benefit of C parvum on the survival times (from all causes) had a P value of .04. When the same analysis was performed using only patients aged younger than 60 years, the observed benefit of C parvum on disease-free interval had a P value of .08 and the benefit of C parvum on survival times (from all causes) had a P value of .008. 
The nigrostriatal dopaminergic system assessed in vivo by positron emission tomography in healthy volunteer subjects and patients with Parkinson's disease. A group of healthy control subjects and patients with Parkinson's disease were investigated using positron emission tomography and two tracers as indicators of different specific properties of the presynaptic dopaminergic system in caudate nucleus and putamen. The first tracer, 6-L-(18F)-fluorodopa, was used as an analog of levodopa to assess its regional brain uptake, conversion into, and retention as dopamine and further metabolites. The second tracer, (11C)-nomifensine was employed as an indicator of striatal monaminergic reuptake sites that are principally dopaminergic. We have used this tracer to assess dopaminergic nerve terminal density. In patients with Parkinson's disease, striatal uptake of both tracers was decreased, putamen being significantly more affected than caudate. Side-to-side differences of uptake in putamen, but not caudate, correlated with corresponding left-right differences of scored clinical motor performance. Both 6-L(18F)-fluorodopa and (11C)-nomifensine tracer uptake in putamen was decreased on average to 40% of normal values, suggesting that a substantial part of the cellular elements of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system is still intact in living parkinsonian patients. This is in contrast to the generally extreme depletion of endogenous dopamine in the putamen of patients found at postmortem. Our results lend support to the search for drug treatments that protect against further nigrostriatal cell loss and that could be exhibited as soon as the disease manifests clinically. If successful, a sufficient striatal nerve terminal pool would remain so that the effectiveness of levodopa as a dopamine repletor could persist. 
Pathophysiology of cleft lip muscles following the initial surgical repair. Muscle biopsy specimens taken from the upper lip and perialar area during the time of secondary lip revision and studied by histochemical techniques demonstrate persistent connective-tissue and muscle abnormalities even at a distance from the cleft margins. Some of these changes are consistent with surgically induced denervation-reinnervation of muscle groups in the surgical field. Increased amounts of connective tissue also were found, most likely secondary to the original deformity and the subsequent surgical procedures. Both these changes may be important factors in subsequent abnormal growth and development of the underlying midfacial structures. This study also demonstrated the resolution of previously noted mitochondrial abnormalities found in the primary cleft lip patient. 
Role of echocardiography/Doppler in cardiogenic shock: silent mitral regurgitation. Two cases of cardiogenic shock and pulmonary edema due to acute, severe, silent mitral regurgitation are discussed. The mechanism for the mitral regurgitation was papillary muscle rupture in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. Echocardiography established the presence, severity, and cause of the mitral regurgitation and the associated hyperdynamic left ventricular function in the setting of cardiogenic shock. Transesophageal echocardiography is excellent for assessing the mitral valve in critically ill patients in whom transthoracic echocardiography may be inadequate or misleading. This allowed for emergency mitral valve replacement without prolonged attempts at medical stabilization. 
Role of depressive illness in the outcome of treatment of temporomandibular joint pain-dysfunction syndrome. The aim of this study was to assess the role of a depressive illness in the outcome of the treatment of patients with temporomandibular joint pain-dysfunction syndrome. One group was considered psychiatrically normal and the other had a concurrent depressive illness. The latter group was subdivided equally to produce three treatment groups: one undergoing occlusal splint therapy, one receiving antidepressant medication, and the third having a combination of occlusal splint and antidepressant therapy. The results showed clearly that there was a significant difference in response in the nonpsychiatric and combined-therapy depressed groups in comparison with the two depressed groups treated either with occlusal splint or with antidepressant therapy. The combined therapy led to resolution of the painful problem and the depression, whereas the single therapies were only partly successful in relieving the pain-dysfunction syndrome. The preexisting duration of this painful problem did not influence the response to therapy. 
Proximal rupture and intracoronary entrapment of a rotating device during low-speed rotational coronary angioplasty. While attempting to recanalize a right coronary artery obstruction by using a low-speed rotating catheter (Rotacs), proximal rupture of the catheter body occurred with entrapment of the blunt tip in the obstruction. To retrieve the device, it was necessary to severe the guiding catheter and the flexible tube of the Rotacs. At low-speed rotation the flexible segment of the catheter was then pulled back. 
Ceftazidime plus amikacin versus ceftazidime plus vancomycin as empiric therapy in febrile neutropenic children with cancer. Two antibiotic regimens, ceftazidime plus amikacin and ceftazidime plus vancomycin, were compared in a prospective, randomized clinical trial as empiric therapy in febrile granulocytopenic children with cancer. The rate of response was similar in the two groups (66% vs. 77%). The prevalence of secondary gram-negative bacteremia was higher--but not significantly higher--in the group receiving vancomycin. Adverse reactions also occurred more often in the latter group (35% vs. 4%). Mortality did not differ significantly in the two groups. Adjustment for independent predictors of response to treatment by means of multivariate analysis confirmed the lack of any remarkable difference between the responses to the two regimens. We conclude that the use of vancomycin instead of amikacin in combination with ceftazidime does not significantly improve the outcome of treatment of fever and infection in granulocytopenic children with cancer and that the use of vancomycin is associated with an increased frequency of both secondary infections due to gram-negative bacteria and adverse reactions. 
The role of behavioral research in the prevention and management of invasive diarrheas. Reduction in the prevalence of invasive diarrheal diseases can be facilitated by the development of models for systematic examination of behavioral risk factors that are associated with these illnesses. These factors include insufficient use of health care services, noncompliance with treatment, unhygienic behaviors, employment of poor feeding practices for infants and young children, and inappropriate handling of foods. Information on conditions that facilitate or constrain appropriate behaviors will assist the development of programs for the prevention and management of invasive diarrheas. 
External annular prosthesis in repair of biliary tract stricture. A surgical technique for treatment of benign intrahepatic or extrahepatic biliary stenosis is described. It is based on the use of annular prostheses of Teflon placed around the outside of the anastomotic line using appropriate surgical instruments. This procedure leaves the blood supply to the bile duct intact, achieves hermetic apposition of epithelia, and prevents leakage of bile. It eliminates the use of intraductal splints, avoids retraction of scar tissue around the anastomotic zone, and increases or maintains the internal diameter of the biliary duct on the anastomotic line. The technique has been used in 33 patients with follow-up from 1 to 10 years. Excellent results were achieved in 32 patients, with 1 patient having a poor result. The average postoperative hospital stay was only 6 days. 
Amplification of the c-erbB oncogene is associated with malignancy in primary tumours of neuroepithelial tissue. In various primary brain tumours of neuroepithelial tissue recombinant DNA techniques were used to demonstrate changes of the epidermal growth factor receptor gene, which is homologous to the c-erbB oncogene. Twenty-one of 40 grade III/IV tumours, but only 1 of 16 grade I/II tumours were found to contain amplified and/or rearranged c-erbB sequences. This highly significant difference suggest that c-erbB amplification, rearrangement, or both, are important steps in malignant transformation in a subset of patients with neuroepithelial tumours. 
Effect of immersion on residual volume of able-bodied and spinal cord injured males. This study compared residual lung volumes (RV) (oxygen dilution technique) of able-bodied (AB) and spinal cord injured (SCI) males on dry land in air (RVA) and immersed to the neck in water (RVW). The effects of significant differences in RV on calculations of body density (Db) and percent body fat (%BF) were also assessed. The subjects were eight AB, eight paraplegic (PARA), and eight quadriplegic (QUAD) males, ranging in age from 18 to 51 yr. There was a 0.99 correlation (P less than 0.001) between RVA and RVW for AB subjects but no significant correlations between RVA and RVW for the PARA or QUAD groups. RVA in the QUAD group was significantly higher than in the PARA or AB group (P less than 0.003). There were no differences in RVW among the three groups. In the QUAD group, RVA was significantly larger than RVW (P less than 0.001), but there were no significant differences between RVA and RVW for the PARA or AB subjects. Db and %BF did not differ significantly among the PARA or AB groups when calculated at RVA and RVW. However, for QUAD, both Db and %BF differed significantly (P less than 0.001) when calculated at RVA and RVW. It was concluded that, for the purpose of hydrostatic weighing, residual lung volume of quadriplegic persons should be measured with the subject immersed in water. 
Specificities of serum alpha-fetoprotein in HBsAg+ and HBsAg- patients in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. Serum alpha-fetoprotein level is often elevated in patients with chronic liver disease and patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. One of the most difficult problems frequently encountered in practice is differentiating hepatocellular carcinoma from chronic liver disease. This study investigated the specificity and predictive value positive of serum alpha-fetoprotein at various levels in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma, using 54 patients with histologically proven hepatocellular carcinoma and 200 patients with chronic liver disease (40 patients with chronic active hepatitis and 160 patients with cirrhosis) as nontumor controls. Among 254 patients, 170 (66.9%) were HBsAg+. A wide range of overlap (from 0 to 6,400 ng/ml) in the distribution of serum alpha-fetoprotein levels between hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease patients was observed mainly among HBsAg+ patients. In contrast, the overlapping range of serum alpha-fetoprotein levels between HBsAg- patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease was remarkably narrow (from 0 to 200 ng/ml). Therefore the specificity and predictive value positive of alpha-fetoprotein at a given level were significantly lower in HBsAg+ than in HBsAg- patients, especially when alpha-fetoprotein was between 25 and 200 ng/ml. The specificities of alpha-fetoprotein at 200 ng/ml and 400 ng/ml in HBsAg+ patients were 79.8% and 91.5%, respectively, whereas these specificities were both 100% in HBsAg- patients. The predictive values positive at 200 ng/ml and 400 ng/ml in HBsAg+ patients were 53.6% and 72.5%, respectively, in contrast to 100% at both levels in HBsAg- patients. The serum alpha-fetoprotein level, which showed a predictive value positive of 95% in HBsAg+ hepatocellular carcinoma patients, was 3,200 ng/ml, whereas that in HBsAg- hepatocellular carcinoma patients, was 200 ng/ml. We conclude that serum HBsAg status should be considered when serum alpha-fetoprotein is measured as an independent test to diagnose hepatocellular carcinoma, and suggest that regular serum alpha-fetoprotein determination may be more useful in HBsAg- patients with chronic liver disease for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma than in HBsAg+ patients. 
Angiotropic large-cell lymphoma in a patient with adrenal insufficiency. Angiotropic large-cell lymphoma is a rare disorder characterized by a proliferation of malignant lymphoid cells within the lumina of small vessels. The skin and central nervous system are typically affected; however, involvement of other organs has been described. We document an unusual case of this disorder in a patient who suffered clinically significant adrenal insufficiency and subsequently died. Autopsy disclosed angiotropic large-cell lymphoma involving both adrenal glands. 
Alternating sequential intracarotid BCNU and cisplatin in recurrent malignant glioma. The authors entered 43 patients with recurrent malignant glioma in a trial of alternating sequential intracarotid BCNU and cisplatin. Protocol design was alternating courses of BCNU (2 doses, 300 to 400 mg each) and cisplatin (2 doses, 150 to 200 mg each) each at 4-week to 6-week intervals. Eight of 40 patients (20%) evaluable after the first course of BCNU showed partial or minor response. Only 18 patients were evaluable after the first course of cisplatin, and 5 were evaluable after the second course of BCNU. Median survival was 9 months (range, 2 weeks to 6 years). Cerebral or ocular toxicity unique to this method of chemotherapy administration and failure to show clinical improvement were the most common reasons for removal from study. Because of the high attrition rate, the authors were unable to determine a meaningful response to alternating sequential BCNU and cisplatin or to test the clinical degree of cross-resistance to these agents in human malignant glioma. 
Use of process evaluation to guide health education in Forsyth County's project to prevent cervical cancer. The Forsyth County, NC, Cervical Cancer Prevention Project is a 5-year public health education program designed to increase the proportion of black women in the county who are appropriately screened for cervical cancer. In this paper, the authors report on process evaluation--the procedures used to monitor the intervention and to insure that the target population was reached with a high quality, community-based health education program. A system that encompasses documentation of program activities, interviews with women in waiting rooms of primary care providers, semiannual interviews with a panel of approximately 100 women from the target population, and telephone followup with participants in direct education workshops was designed and implemented. Through October 1990, more than 2,100 interviews had been conducted. Data from these activities have facilitated continued development and refinement of educational materials, provided guidance for developing new strategies for reaching the target population, and provided continuous feedback to program managers to allow monitoring the impact of all program activities. 
The herpes simplex virus 1 segment inversion site is specifically cleaved by a virus-induced nuclear endonuclease. Nuclear extracts from several tissue culture cell lines (human, primate, and murine) contain an endonuclease that specifically cleaves sequences at the herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) segment inversion site. Mapping studies identified the preferential site of cleavage as a set of tandemly repeated dodecamers, the DR2 repeats. Endonuclease levels vary according to the proliferative state of the cell; little or no activity is detectable in extracts from quiescent cells, whereas high levels are expressed in dividing cells. Also, infection of density-arrested BSC-1 cells with HSV-1 induces a substantial increase (at least 35-fold) in endonucleolytic activity, which is first detectable at about 1 hr after infection at 32 degrees C. The elevated levels of enzyme activity then persist throughout the viral life cycle. In addition to the HSV-1 DR2 repeats, certain other G+C-rich sequences with an asymmetric distribution of purines and pyrimidines on the DNA strands and with appropriate sequences and lengths are substrates for the nuclease. These data indicate that target site recognition by the enzyme is conformation specific rather than sequence specific. 
Coarctation and hypoplasia of the aortic arch: will the arch grow? Hypoplasia of the transverse aortic arch of various degrees of severity is commonly seen in infants who have coarctation of the aorta. It is more often present when the coarctation is associated with intracardiac lesions that diminish or limit forward flow in the ascending aorta and promote right to left flow through an arterial duct. The increased frequency of surgical treatment of infants with complex coarctation, which is in part related to the ability to stabilize their condition with prostaglandin E1, has posed the question of the potential for growth and development of the originally hypoplastic aortic arch after conventional repair of aortic coarctation. Review of our experience with transverse aortic arch hypoplasia, found in 33 (32%) of 102 infants undergoing coarctation repair by subclavian flap aortoplasty or classic resection and end-to-end anastomosis, revealed excellent growth of the transverse arch after repair in all patients available for linear follow-up. The currently proposed extended arch repair should be reserved for the small group of infants with transverse aortic arch to ascending aorta diameter ratios (arch indices) of less than 0.25. 
Postblepharoplasty ectropion. Prevention and management. Lower-eyelid malposition is one of the more serious complications encountered following lower-lid blepharoplasty, ranging in severity from mild lower-lid retraction to frank ectropion with marked lower-lid eversion. We define a grading system for postblepharoplasty lid malposition based on the severity of lower-lid retraction. In a critical review of 111 patients who underwent lower-lid blepharoplasty between January 1985 and January 1990, 15% were thought to have some degree of lower-lid retraction. Presence of lid laxity preoperatively and increasing amounts of skin excision at surgery were significant factors in the development of malposition. Placement of orbicularis suspension sutures tended to decrease the incidence of lid retraction. No patients had frank ectropion; however, three patients with grade 2 or 3 malposition required a secondary surgical procedure for correction. All three patients had resolution of their symptoms and good cosmetic results using standard treatment methods. A literature review and discussion of the causes, sequelae, and management of post-operative ectropion is presented as a reminder to surgeons performing blepharoplasty. Avoidance of this entity by appropriate preoperative assessment is emphasized, along with conservative operative technique. These factors combined are essential for the successful outcome of lower-lid blepharoplasty. 
Arthroscopic stapling for detached superior glenoid labrum. Superior labral tears of the shoulder involve the biceps tendon and labrum complex which may be detached, displaced inferiorly, and interposed between the glenoid and the humeral head. We have treated ten young athletes with painful shoulders due to this lesion by arthroscopic stapling. Arthroscopy at the time of staple removal, after three to six months, showed that all the lesions had been stabilised. Clinical review at over 24 months showed an excellent or good result in 80%. The two relative failures were due in one to residual subacromial bursitis, and the other to multidirectional shoulder instability. Arthroscopic stapling can restore the shoulder anatomy, and it is recommended for active adolescent athletes with this lesion. 
A prospective, randomized trial comparing combination half-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator and streptokinase with full-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator. Kentucky Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial (KAMIT) Group. BACKGROUND. The potential benefits of combination thrombolytic agents in the treatment of myocardial infarction remain uncertain. In a small pilot study, we demonstrated that combining half-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) with streptokinase (SK) achieved a high rate of infarct vessel patency and a low rate of reocclusion at half the cost of full-dose t-PA. METHODS AND RESULTS. We designed a prospective trial in which 216 patients were randomized within 6 hours of myocardial infarction to receive either the combination of half-dose (50 mg) t-PA with streptokinase (1.5 MU) during 1 hour or to the conventional dose of t-PA (100 mg) during 3 hours. Acute patency was determined by angiography at 90 minutes, and angioplasty was reserved for failed thrombolysis. Heparin and aspirin regimens were maintained until follow-up catheterization at day 7. Acute patency was significantly greater after t-PA/SK (79%) than with t-PA alone (64%, p less than 0.05). After angioplasty for failed thrombolysis, acute patency increased to 96% in both groups. Marked depletion of serum fibrinogen levels occurred after t-PA/SK compared with t-PA alone at 4 hours (37 +/- 36 versus 199 +/- 66 mg/dl, p less than 0.0001) and persisted 24 hours after therapy (153 +/- 66 versus 252 +/- 75 mg/dl, p less than 0.0001). Reocclusion (3% versus 10%, p = 0.06), reinfarction (0% versus 4%, p less than 0.05), and need for emergency bypass surgery (1% versus 6%, p = 0.05) tended to be less in the t-PA/SK group. Greater myocardial salvage was apparent in the t-PA/SK group as assessed by infarct zone function at day 7 (-1.9 SD/chord versus -2.3 SD/chord after t-PA alone, p less than 0.05). In-hospital mortality (6% versus 4%) and serious bleeding (12% versus 11%) were similar between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS. These results suggest that a less expensive regimen of half-dose t-PA with SK yields superior 90-minute patency and left ventricular function and a trend toward reduced reocclusion compared with the conventional dose of t-PA. 
Fibrin glue vasal anastomosis compared to conventional sutured vasovasostomy in the rat. Vasectomy reversal has become a frequently performed surgical procedure with best results obtained with the use of the operating microscope and microsurgical technique. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the use of fibrin glue ("Tisseel", Immuno U.S., Inc.) for vasovasostomy and to compare this technique to conventional sutured vasovasostomy. Utilizing 60 male Sprague Dawley rats, a conventional two layered sutured anastomosis of vasovasostomy (30 rats) was compared to a fibrin glue technique of vasal anastomosis (30 rats). The fibrin glue technique was performed with two transmural sutures, was unstented, and utilized the biological glue to seal the anastomosis. The contralateral vas of each animal underwent vasectomy and reapproximation of unligated ends so that the rate of spontaneous recanalization could be accessed. Rats were sacrificed at 24 hours, one week, four weeks, and three months postvasovasostomy. The vasal specimens were evaluated for gross patency, presence and size of sperm granuloma, mean flow rates at varying infusion pressures, tensile strength measurements and histologic studies. Combining the one and three month groups, a similar patency rate was obtained by either technique; 83% (n = 18) for the sutured group, and 90% (n = 21) for the fibrin glue group. The rate of spontaneous recanalization of the contralateral vasa in the one and three month animals was 8% (n = 38). The mean flow rates obtained at high and low infusion pressures were not statistically different for the two techniques. The tensile strength of the glue anastomosis averaged 78% of the tensile strength achieved by the conventional sutured technique. The incidence of sperm granuloma after vasovasostomy was 28% for the fibrin glue group and 61% for the sutured group. Additionally, 67% of granulomas were small (less than 3 mm.) in the glue group, compared to only 36% in the sutured group. Histology revealed similar morphological changes in the area of anastomosis with either technique. Operative time for sutured vasovasostomy averaged 24 minutes, compared to an average of 11 minutes for the glue assisted vasovasostomy. The use of fibrin glue allowed the performance of a sperm tight patent anastomosis that had the advantages of reduced incidence of sperm granuloma formation, reduced operative time, and less microsurgical skill required to perform the anastomosis. 
Long-lasting depression of the factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic system in patients with myocardial infarction undergoing thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator: a randomized placebo-controlled study. In a randomized placebo-controlled study, seven patients with acute myocardial infarction allocated to intravenous treatment with 100 mg of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and seven patients allocated to placebo were studied during eight sampling periods before and after treatment. Seven patients with acute myocardial infarction treated intravenously with 1.5 million U of streptokinase were later studied during two sampling periods before and after treatment. The placebo group showed no significant deviations of endogenous factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity (p greater than 0.05). In the rt-PA group, this activity decreased significantly (p less than 0.001) after the infusion and remained depressed throughout the 1st 4 days. A significant decrease in activity (p less than 0.05) was also found in the streptokinase-treated patients. The depletion of factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity was not due to generation of inhibition or a depletion of factor XII, prekallikrein and plasminogen, but could be related to the proactivator of this system. It is concluded that rt-PA (and streptokinase) treatment in patients with acute myocardial infarction causes a prolonged depletion of factor XII-dependent fibrinolytic activity. This depression of endogenous fibrinolytic activity needs to be evaluated in relation to the enhanced risk of coronary reocclusion after thrombolytic therapy. 
Correlation of histology and drug response of human tumors grown in native-state three-dimensional histoculture and in nude mice. An in vitro histoculture system in which a native-state collagen-sponge gel supports the three-dimensional growth of tumor tissue has been recently developed that allows the culture and drug response assay for most every tumor type. Important features of the histoculture system include the maintenance of three-dimensional tissue architecture and the use of histological autoradiography to measure nuclear incorporation of [3H]thymidine as an endpoint. We describe in this report in vitro-in vivo correlations for drug response and tumor histology by using human tumor xenografts grown in the native-state three-dimensional histoculture system and as xenografts in nude mice. This comparison eliminates many of the confounding variables seen in most correlative clinical trials. Results demonstrate (i) a very high preservation of in vivo tissue architecture in vitro, (ii) an 86% accuracy in vitro of predicting drug resistance in vivo using suprapharmacologic doses of drugs in vitro, and (iii) an overall predictive frequency of drug resistance and sensitivity ranging from 53% for 5-fluorouracil to 78% for doxorubicin. 
Combination balloon-ultrasound imaging catheter for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Validation of imaging, analysis of recoil, and identification of plaque fracture. BACKGROUND. We investigated the hypothesis that an ultrasound transducer positioned within an angioplasty balloon could be used to perform quantitative assessment of arterial dimensions before and after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and to identify certain mechanical alterations consequent to PTA, including vascular wall recoil and the initiation of plaque fractures. METHODS AND RESULTS. A combination balloon-ultrasound imaging catheter (BUIC) that houses a 20-MHz ultrasound transducer within and halfway between the proximal and distal ends of an angioplasty balloon was used to perform PTA in 10 patients with peripheral vascular disease. Each PTA site was also evaluated before and after PTA by standard (nonballoon) intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) technique. In eight patients in whom satisfactory images were recorded with the BUIC before PTA, luminal cross-sectional area (XSA) of stenotic sites (0.10 +/- 0.01 cm2) did not differ significantly from measurements of XSA by IVUS (0.09 +/- 0.01 cm2, p = NS). Likewise, minimum luminal diameter (Dmin) measured by BUIC (0.34 +/- 0.02 cm) was similar to that measured by IVUS (0.33 +/- 0.01 cm, p = NS). In nine patients in whom satisfactory images were recorded with the BUIC after PTA, XSA measured by BUIC (0.29 +/- 0.03 cm2) did not differ significantly from XSA measured by IVUS (0.30 +/- 0.03 cm2, p = NS). Dmin measured by BUIC after PTA (0.57 +/- 0.02 cm) was also similar to Dmin measured by IVUS (0.57 +/- 0.03 cm, p = NS). After PTA, XSA and Dmin measured immediately after deflation were significantly less than balloon XSA and diameter at full inflation, indicating significant elastic recoil of the dilated site. For the nine patients in whom post-PTA images were satisfactory for quantitative analysis, including four patients in whom recoil was 39%, 46%, 50%, and 61%, percent recoil measured 28.6 +/- 7.2%. Finally, plaque fractures were identified on-line in six of 10 patients (60%); in each case, initiation of plaque fracture was observed at inflation pressures of 2 atm or less. CONCLUSIONS. The results of this preliminary human investigation indicate that an ultrasound transducer positioned within an angioplasty balloon can be used to perform quantitative and qualitative analyses of lumen-plaque-wall alterations immediately preceding, during, and immediately after PTA in patients with peripheral vascular disease. 
Effects of rapid volume expansion on the right filling pressures after prosthetic valve surgery. The effects of rapid intravascular volume expansion were studied in 12 patients, 4 to 14 years after single prosthetic heart valve replacement. The data observed showed a statistically significant mean difference before and after volume expansion of right atrial mean pressure and right ventricular end diastolic and pulmonary capillary pressures. However, right atrial and pulmonary capillary pressures equilibration was not detected. The right atrial pressure form showed abnormal variations during inspiration. Dip and plateau right ventricular diastolic pressure configuration was recorded in 6 patients after expansion, was absent in 2 and questionable in 4. A deep Y descent with an M-shaped right atrial pressure form was recorded in all 12 patients. The explanation for these phenomena is unclear. Thus, in the absence of pressure equilibration and clinical evidence of constriction, the abnormalities recorded during rapid volume expansion should be cautiously interpreted. 
Reproducibility of left ventricular myocardial volume and mass measurements by ultrafast computed tomography. Ultrafast computed tomography has been reported to be an accurate method of measuring left ventricular mass in dogs. To assess the interstudy, intraobserver and interobserver variability of left ventricular myocardial mass measurements in humans, left ventricular myocardial volume was measured three times within 24 h in 16 patients with ischemic heart disease. The mean percent difference of the mean of the three studies performed was -0.01 +/- 1.4% (range -2.9% to 3.6%). The regression analysis for the intraobserver variability at baseline was: Y = -4.33 + 1.03X; r = 0.99, SEE = 3.5 ml. The mean percent difference of the mean of the two sets of measurements performed by two independent observers was 0.28 +/- 2.1% (range -4.35% to 4.35%). The interobserver variability excluding papillary muscles at baseline study was: Y = -4.34 + 1.06X; r = 0.99, SEE = 1.5 ml. The regression analysis with versus without papillary muscles showed: Y = -8.72 + 0.97X; r = 0.96, SEE = 2.6 ml. Regression analysis to assess the variability of 24-h studies at end-systole versus end-diastole revealed: Y = 3.07 + 0.94X; r = 0.97, SEE = 1.8 ml. In conclusion, ultrafast computed tomography is a minimally invasive technique, with very low interstudy, intraobserver and interobserver variability for left ventricular myocardial volume and mass determinations in serial studies. 
Cisplatin and novobiocin in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. A Southwest Oncology Group study. Novobiocin, a commercially available oral antibiotic, inhibits DNA topoisomerase II in a manner shown in cell culture to enhance the cytotoxicity of alkylating agents and cisplatin. Thirty-six patients were entered on a Phase II trial using high-dose cisplatin (100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 for four cycles) after steady-state dosing with novobiocin (1000 mg or four 250-mg capsules every 12 hours for six doses, four of which were administered before each dose of cisplatin). One patient remains on study and cannot be evaluated for response. No complete responses were seen. Three patients (8%) had partial responses and an additional patient had an unconfirmed partial response. The median survival time of all patients was just less than 7 months. These results are comparable with those of other concurrent Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) Phase II and III trials of high-dose cisplatin in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Novobiocin plasma levels were obtained for three patients and were approximately 50% of the optimal concentration as reported in cell culture for potentiation of cytotoxicity. It was concluded that an optimum test of novobiocin as a modulator of cytotoxicity may require the availability of an intravenous preparation. 
Perioperative morbidity and mortality of gynecologic brachytherapy. The incidence and nature of perioperative complications associated with gynecologic brachytherapy applications were determined in 462 implants performed on 327 patients with cervical, endometrial, or vaginal cancer from 1986 to 1988. Twenty-one patients (6.4%) had life-threatening complications, including cardiac (16 patients), thromboembolic (4 patients), and pulmonary (1 patient) events. Three complications (0.9%) were fatal within the first 30 days, and two patients died of delayed sequelae of perioperative complications; thus, there was an overall 1.5% mortality rate. Patients experiencing life-threatening complications tended to be older (P = 0.0002), and to have a history of cardiac disease (P = 0.0002) and an increased American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) score (P = 0.003). Logistic analysis demonstrated that a history of cardiac disease and increased age were independent predictors of life-threatening complications (P = 0.01). Careful patient selection and intensive perioperative care of the high-risk patient may prove to substantially diminish these complications. 
Diagnostic imaging of heterotopic ossification with coexistent deep-venous thrombosis in flaccid paraplegia. Heterotopic ossification and deep-venous thrombosis can coexist. This raises potential problems because diagnosis depends heavily on imaging studies, and an ideal imaging study which will cost-effectively and noninvasively diagnose both conditions simultaneously is not readily available. A case of coexistent heterotopic ossification and deep-venous thrombosis in flaccid paraplegia is presented. In this case, deep-venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolus were diagnosed and treatment was begun without knowledge of the coexistent heterotopic ossification. Alternative imaging and laboratory diagnostic strategies are discussed. It was concluded that, at this time, clinical acumen and judicious use of traditional diagnostic alternatives is the best means of selecting appropriate treatment. Awareness of the coexistence of the two conditions are careful attention to the patient's clinical course can minimize treatment delays and resultant morbidity. 
Evaluation of the patient with stable angina following coronary artery bypass surgery. Bypass graft stenosis and occlusion are relatively common events, occurring eventually in the majority of patients who survive beyond 5 years after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. These processes, in combination with progressive native coronary artery disease, lead to recurrent angina and an increased need for medication in most patients late after surgery. Patients with unstable ischemic symptoms generally should proceed directly to coronary arteriography, whereas patients with stable angina may be candidates for noninvasive testing to evaluate their risk and the extent of myocardial jeopardy. If the initial revascularization procedure is successful, preoperative thallium 201 imaging abnormalities should be reversed. Persistent abnormalities beyond 6 months after revascularization indicate incomplete revascularization or perioperative infarction. Defects noted in the immediate postoperative period may be areas of myocardial stunning or hibernation, which can require up to 6 months to reverse. If chest pain recurs after revascularization, a normal thallium 201 perfusion pattern indicates that the symptom is probably not ischemic in nature. Thallium 201 perfusion abnormalities may precede symptoms by several months and may be the only indication of significant myocardial ischemia in patients with silent ischemia. Advanced tomographic imaging techniques, such as single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), should theoretically improve disease detection and localization following revascularization. Practically speaking, only the left anterior descending coronary bed is well evaluated by these tomographic imaging techniques. The sensitivity and specificity of SPECT imaging for evaluation of posterior circulation abnormalities remains unacceptably low. Complexities of competitive flow and collateralization that may exist in the postoperative period make it difficult to relate perfusion abnormalities to a specific graft stenosis. However, tomographic perfusion imaging may provide useful correlative information on the functional impact of bypass graft stenoses in patients with recurrent angina who have undergone coronary angiography and in whom the angiographic indications for repeat surgery or angioplasty are not compelling. Newer tomographic and metabolic imaging techniques such as CT, NMRI, and PET remain unproven as diagnostic tests for the evaluation of unselected patient populations presenting with recurrent angina following revascularization surgery. 
Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis: an immunohistochemical study. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is a rare inflammatory disorder of the anterior pituitary gland. In some cases, there is evidence of concurrent autoimmune disease. We present the case of a 39-year-old woman who developed visual disturbance during the early postpartum period. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an intrasellar mass with suprasellar extension. Study of the tumor tissue showed diffuse infiltration of the entire pituitary gland by lymphocytes and plasma cells. Immunohistochemical examination revealed that the majority of the infiltrating lymphocytes were T cells that might have modulated the immunoreaction to the anterior pituitary gland. We suggest that the disorder is related to cell-mediated immunity as well as humoral immunity. 
Changes in alpha-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptor density in human hepatocellular carcinoma. Catecholamines are involved critically in the mechanisms of liver cell proliferation by acting on hepatic alpha-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptors. To identify the role of these receptors in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the density was examined of alpha-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptors with their affinity and coupling of beta-2 adrenoceptors to adenylate cyclase in HCC tissue and in nonadjacent/nontumor tissue from the same livers. Studies were also done on healthy livers from age-matched and sex-matched patients undergoing abdominal surgery for nonhepatic diseases. Twenty-two HCC had a decrease of about 72% in alpha-1 adrenoceptor density compared with their nonadjacent/nontumor tissue and a decrease of about 40% compared with healthy controls. Nonadjacent/nontumor tissue from HCC patients had a 125% increase in alpha-1 adrenoceptor density compared with healthy livers. Twenty-three of 24 HCC had an increase of about 180% in beta adrenoceptor density compared with their nonadjacent/nontumor tissue and healthy controls. Beta adrenoceptors were coupled to adenylate cyclase, as evidenced by a guanosine triphosphate-mediated right shift in (-)-isoproterenol competition isotherms and by cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production after stimulation with (-)-isoproterenol. The HCC tissue yielded a larger increase in cAMP than nonadjacent/nontumor tissue and healthy controls. The authors conclude that a higher density of alpha-1 adrenoceptors in nonadjacent/nontumor tissue from HCC characterizes the "healthy" part of the liver in HCC patients and that an increase in beta-2 and a decrease in alpha-1 adrenoceptor densities characterize the tumor part of the liver in human HCC. 
High-affinity androgen binding and androgenic regulation of alpha 1(I)-procollagen and transforming growth factor-beta steady state messenger ribonucleic acid levels in human osteoblast-like osteosarcoma cells. Clinical observations have demonstrated a positive effect of estrogens and androgens on the maintenance of structural bone integrity. This study examines the direct effects of androgenic hormones on the osteoblast-like human osteosarcoma cell line, HOS TE85. Employing radiolabeled dihydrotestosterone (DHT), 2800 saturable, high-affinity (dissociation constant = 0.66 nM) androgen binding sites were detected per HOS TE85 cell. Androgen binding was specific in that DHT and testosterone (T) displayed significantly greater competition than the progestins, progesterone and medroxyprogesterone. The expression of androgen receptors in HOS TE85 cells was further substantiated by Northern analysis. A human androgen receptor complementary DNA probe revealed a 9.5 kilobase transcript which corresponds to the predominant human androgen receptor transcript detected in human male reproductive tissues. Androgens were also found to elicit biological responses in HOS TE85 cells. Physiological concentrations of DHT and T decreased HOS TE85 cell proliferation as assessed by cell count. This finding suggests that DHT may also play a role in osteoblast differentiation. In support of this hypothesis, treatment with T (24 h, 10 nM) enhanced the abundance of both alpha 1(I)-procollagen messenger RNA (mRNA) (5-fold) and transforming growth factor-beta mRNA (2.2 fold). The nonaromatizable androgen DHT (24 h, 10 nM) elicited an increase in the steady state concentration of alpha 1(I)-procollagen mRNA similar to the increase observed with T treatment. Thus, in addition to the recent discovery of estradiol receptors and estrogenic regulation of HOS TE85 cells, it is now evident that these osteoblast-like osteosarcoma cells also express high affinity androgen binding sites and can respond biologically to androgens. 
Membranous lipodystrophy: MR imaging appearance of the brain. Five patients with membranous lipodystrophy (lipomembranous polycystic osteodysplasia with progressive dementia) underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brain. T2-weighted MR images showed atrophied cerebral white matter with dilated ventricles; increased signal intensity of the white matter; and decreased signal intensity of the thalamus, putamen, caudate nucleus, and cerebral cortex. Although each single finding is not specific, the combination of the above MR findings when coupled with skeletal lesions strongly suggests this rare disease. 
Cavoatrial tumor thrombectomy using cardiopulmonary bypass without circulatory arrest. Of 29 patients with inferior vena caval tumor thrombus, 14 with supradiaphragmatic extension were deemed suitable for operation. Patients (age, 7.5 to 70 years) had renal cell carcinoma (n = 8), Wilms' tumor (n = 2), transitional cell carcinoma (n = 1), and adrenal carcinoma (n = 3). Seven patients had stage III disease, and 7 patients had stage IV disease. Two patients (group A) had unresectable disease at exploratory celiotomy, 4 patients (group B) underwent tumor thrombectomy without cardiopulmonary bypass, and cardiopulmonary bypass was employed in 8 patients (group C). Three of 8 group C patients had Budd-Chiari syndrome at diagnosis. Cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia, and inferior vena caval interruption (clip or filter), was employed in all patients. There were no perioperative deaths. Transient neurological impairment was observed postoperatively in 2 patients. Coagulopathy developed in 1 patient who had hepatic encephalopathy and Budd-Chiari syndrome preoperatively and in another patient in whom protamine could not be administered. No patient had acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. Median survival is 41 and 17 months in groups B and C, respectively. Some authors have advocated profound hypothermia and circulatory arrest in these patients. We find that satisfactory visualization and excision can be performed with cardiopulmonary bypass and moderate hypothermia, avoiding potential renal, hepatic, neurological, and septic complications associated with circulatory arrest. 
Factors affecting the patency of stents in malignant biliary obstructive disease: univariate and multivariate analysis. To investigate the factors affecting the patency of biliary stents, we performed univariate and multivariate analyses in 370 straight stents with diameters of 10- to 12-French gauge which had been inserted singly as palliative treatment in 228 patients with malignant biliary obstructive disease. In the analysis of 226 first stents, advanced age of patients and higher serum bilirubin levels before insertion were found to be significant unfavorable factors limiting the duration of stent function. Overall, older age, male sex, no stent cleaning, and insertion on three or more occasions were significant unfavorable prognostic factors for patency. The risk of occlusion for stents inserted on three or more occasions was 2.32 times that of the first stent insertion. The median duration of patency of first, second, and subsequent stents was 177, 98, and 97 days, respectively. Diagnosis and the area of stenosis were unrelated to patency. No predictive significance of length or size of stent between 10- and 12-French gauge was found in our study. 
Failure of ciprofloxacin to eradicate convalescent fecal excretion after acute salmonellosis: experience during an outbreak in health care workers. OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of ciprofloxacin therapy in eradicating convalescent fecal excretion of salmonellae after acute salmonellosis. DESIGN: Randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of ciprofloxacin, with prospective follow-up of nonparticipants. SETTING: An acute care community hospital experiencing an outbreak of salmonellosis. PATIENTS: Twenty-eight health care workers developed acute infection with Salmonella java; 15 participated in a placebo-controlled trial of ciprofloxacin, beginning on day 9 after infection. INTERVENTIONS: Eight patients were randomly assigned to receive ciprofloxacin, 750 mg, and 7 patients to receive placebo; both were administered orally twice daily for 14 days. Nonparticipants who received therapy were placed on the same ciprofloxacin regimen. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Study participants had follow-up stool cultures every 3 days initially and then weekly for 3 weeks; nonparticipants were followed until three consecutive cultures were negative. All eight ciprofloxacin recipients showed eradication of S. java from stool cultures within 7 days of beginning therapy (compared with 1 of 7 placebo recipients), and their stool cultures remained negative up to 14 days after discontinuing therapy (P less than 0.01). However, 4 of 8 relapsed; their stool cultures became positive between 14 and 21 days after therapy. In addition, 3 of 3 hospitalized patients treated with ciprofloxacin who did not participate in the controlled trial also relapsed. Thus, the total relapse rate was 7 of 11 (64%; 95% CI, 31% to 89%). In 4 of these 7 patients, relapse was associated with a longer duration of fecal excretion of salmonellae than that of the placebo group. Relapse could not be explained on the basis of noncompliance, development of resistance, or presence of biliary disease. CONCLUSIONS: Despite its excellent antimicrobial activity against salmonellae and its favorable pharmacokinetic profile, ciprofloxacin at a dosage of 750 mg orally twice daily had an unacceptably high failure rate in patients with acute salmonellosis and may have prolonged fecal excretion of salmonellae. The late occurrence of relapses indicates the need to obtain stool cultures up to 21 days after therapy to document fecal eradication in acute salmonellosis. 
Insulin secretory response to secretagogues by perifused islets from chronically glucose-infused rats. Perifused islets from rats infused for 7 days with 40% glucose exhibited an altered secretory response to selected stimuli. Both phases of insulin release were blunted when 20 mM L-leucine was tested; the secretory response to a subsequent leucine stimulation was also blunted compared with the control group. The ability of 20 mM alpha-ketoisocaproate to stimulate the release of insulin was also greatly diminished in islets from glucose-infused rats. The secretory response to 50 microM tolbutamide plus 7 mM glucose by perifused islets from glucose-infused rats was 45% lower than in the control group. In addition, the response to a subsequent 10 mM glucose stimulation was lost. On the other hand, islets from glucose-infused rats responded to 20 microM forskolin plus 16.7 mM glucose with on significant change in the amount of insulin released during both phases of stimulation compared with the control group. The response to 100 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate was 3.1-fold higher in islets from glucose-infused compared with saline-infused rats. The finding that chronic infusions of glucose lead to selective impairment of the secretory response to fuel stimuli and agents such as tolbutamide that act on metabolically regulated K+ channels gives support to the notion that alterations in the generation of metabolic coupling signals might be involved in the phenomenon described here. 
Obstructive dilatation of extrahepatic recipient and donor bile ducts complicating orthotopic liver transplantation: imaging and laboratory findings. Biliary obstruction in liver transplants is most commonly due to stricture at the biliary anastomosis. The native common bile duct typically is normal. We retrospectively studied 28 patients with choledochocholedochostomy anastomoses who had marked native and donor extrahepatic bile duct dilatation associated with clinical evidence of biliary obstruction. Operative cholangiograms were compared with postoperative cholangiograms obtained a mean of 50 weeks (range, 2-246 weeks) later. Mean caliber of the native common bile duct increased from 7.5 +/- 2.0 mm on operative cholangiograms to 14.8 +/- 3.9 mm on postoperative cholangiograms (p less than .001). Mean caliber of the donor common hepatic duct increased from 5.9 +/- 1.3 mm on operative cholangiograms to 12.8 +/- 3.8 mm on postoperative cholangiograms (p less than .001). Dilatation of the cystic duct remnant was seen in 15 patients. All patients had surgical revision to choledochojejunostomy with improved results of liver function studies in most cases. Diffuse dilatation of native and donor extrahepatic bile ducts may develop in liver transplant recipients. Typical features include native and donor extrahepatic ducts greater than 12 mm in diameter and a dilated cystic duct remnant on postoperative cholangiography in a patient with otherwise unexplained hepatic dysfunction. 
Patency rate of endoscopic middle meatus antrostomy. A series of 145 patients with chronic sinusitis were treated with functional endoscopic sinus surgery. Patency of the middle meatus was evaluated by actuarial life-table methods. After 24 months' follow-up, the overall patency rate of endoscopic middle meatotomy was 94.08%. Questionnaire data indicated that 91.8% of these patients were improved or asymptomatic. This preliminary study indicates that the patency rate of middle meatal antrostomy appears to be greater than that of inferior meatal antrostomy when compared to literature controls, and that a high percentage of these patients are improved by this surgery. 
Intracellular pH in human resistance arteries in essential hypertension. To investigate intracellular pH (pHi) in human resistance arteries in essential hypertension, vessels were obtained from small biopsies of skin and subcutaneous fat from 14 untreated patients, and the results were compared with those from 14 matched normotensive control volunteers. Segments of isolated resistance arteries were mounted in a myograph and loaded with the pH-sensitive fluorescent dye 2',7'-bis(2-carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein. Fluorescence signals were monitored using a series of barrier filters and chromatic beam splitters. In this way both resting pHi and the changes in pHi observed during isometric contractions initiated by agonists could be recorded. Resting pHi was not different in vessels from hypertensive patients (hypertensive, 7.24 +/- 0.06 versus control, 7.25 +/- 0.04 pH units). The application of ethylisopropylamiloride (EIPA) and 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS) demonstrated that both Na(+)-H+ exchange and bicarbonate-dependent membrane mechanisms contributed to pHi homeostasis but that neither system was overactive in hypertension (pHi change with EIPA in vessels from hypertensive versus control subjects was -0.11 +/- 0.02 and 0.13 +/- 0.03 pH units, respectively, and pHi change with DIDS in vessels from hypertensive versus control subjects was -0.097 +/- 0.05 and -0.091 +/- 0.03 pH units, respectively). The application of norepinephrine or 125 mM K+ solution induced contraction in the arterial segments with an accompanying fall in pHi. With norepinephrine this fall was significantly attenuated in vessels from hypertensive patients. These results fail to provide evidence for raised pHi in resistance arteries in human essential hypertension, and contrary to previous reports in circulating blood cells, Na(+)-H+ exchange is not overactive in the vessels of such patients. 
Cerebrovascular abnormalities in pediatric stroke: assessment using parenchymal and angiographic magnetic resonance imaging. Three-dimensional (volume) magnetic resonance angiography is a noninvasive technique that images the intracranial and cervical arterial vasculature without contrast agents. Twenty-four children with strokes had combined parenchymal magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography 1 day to 4 years after acute presentation. Eight had had prior intra-arterial angiography. Eighteen magnetic resonance angiographic studies showed arterial stenosis or occlusion in the vascular distribution of magnetic resonance image-defined brain infarction and, in 7 children, in the same location as previously defined abnormalities on intra-arterial angiography. One child had a normal intra-arterial angiogram and magnetic resonance angiogram. The other 5 children with normal magnetic resonance angiographic studies included 3 with presumed embolic disease, 1 with meningitis, and 1 with Crohn's disease-related vasculitis. Collateral flow patterns could be determined in 4 children. Artifact presenting as filling defects in vessels was present in 10 studies, but did not interfere with interpretation of 8 studies. Combined magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance angiography provides a screening technique to evaluate noninvasively brain parenchyma and vasculature in children with suspected large-vessel abnormalities, allowing selection for intra-arterial angiography and serial monitoring of vascular abnormalities over time and during therapeutic intervention. 
Scintigraphic measurement of regional gut transit in idiopathic constipation. In this study, total gut transit and regional colonic transit in patients with idiopathic constipation were measured scintigraphically. Eight patients with severe constipation were studied, none of whom had evidence of abnormal function of the pelvic floor. 99mTc-radiolabeled Amberlite resin particles (average diameter, 1 mm; Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) with a mixed meal were used to assess gastric emptying and small bowel transit; similar particles labeled with 111In were ingested in a coated capsule that dispersed in the ileocecal region. These were used to quantify colonic transit. Five healthy volunteers were also studied. Two patients showed delayed gastric emptying and two had slow small bowel transit. Seven of the eight patients had slow colonic transit. In five, delay affected the whole colon ("pancolonic inertia"); in two, transit in the ascending and transverse colon was normal, but solids moved through the left colon slowly. Mean colonic transit was also measured using radiopaque markers; this technique identified the patients with slow transit, as shown by measurements of overall colonic transit by simultaneous scintigraphy. However, estimated transit through the ascending and transverse colons was considerably shorter by the radiopaque marker technique. In conclusion, idiopathic constipation is characterized by either exaggerated reservoir functions of the ascending and transverse colons and/or impairment of propulsive function in the descending colon. Particle size may influence the result of regional colonic transit tests. Transit delays in other parts of the gut suggest that, in some patients, the condition may be a more generalized motor dysfunction. 
Pain causes in 200 patients referred to a multidisciplinary cancer pain clinic. Causes of pain were analysed in 200 patients referred to a specialized cancer pain clinic. Pain caused by tumour growth was found in 158 patients, pain secondary to cancer or its treatment in 116 patients and pain unrelated to cancer in 33 patients. Visceral involvement (74 cases), bone metastases (68 cases), soft tissue invasion (56 cases) and nerve/plexus pressure or infiltration (39 cases) were the most frequent causes of pain due to tumour growth. Myogenic pain (68 cases) was the most frequent cause of secondary pain. The patients presented with a multitude of different combinations of causes of pain, the majority having at least two separate causes. Since pain treatment in cancer patients should be determined by its aetiology, a detailed analysis of the pain condition in each patient should form the basis for a rational therapy. 
The effects of induced mood on laboratory pain. Sixty-five subjects experienced 2 cold pressor immersions. Following the initial immersion, subjects participated in the Velten mood induction procedure by reading either depressive, neutral or elative statements. The sensory discriminative response to pain was measured by ratings of pain, and the affective-reactive response to pain was measured by pain tolerance. Pain tolerance, but not pain ratings, were affected by mood inductions with subjects in the depression condition shortening their tolerance times more than the subjects in the neutral condition and the subjects in the elative condition increasing their tolerance times. 
Anatomic location and variety of nonmalignant neck masses seen in surgical practice. During a 10-year interval, 189 patients, comprised of 121 females and 68 males ranging in age from 1 to 98 years, were surgically treated for nonmalignant neck masses. Nonmalignant neck masses were located in the thyroid or submaxillary gland in 60 per cent of these patients. Thyroid adenoma, reactive cervical nodes, and mixed tumor of the submaxillary salivary glands represented the three most commonly occurring nonmalignant pathologic conditions in this series. When stratified by age and sex, thyroid abnormalities, specifically thyroid adenoma, occurred most often in females of all ages. In males, reactive nodes were usually seen before 40 years of age; thereafter, tumors of the submaxillary salivary gland predominated. Most studies of nonmalignant neck masses indicate that reactive nodes are the most common condition in patients of all ages. Thyroid conditions were seen most frequently in this group of patients. The probable explanation is a tertiary referral pattern to surgeons. Patients with nonsurgical conditions were, presumably, identified and managed earlier and not referred further, and therefore did not appear in this group of patients. 
Induction chemotherapy plus radiation compared with surgery plus radiation in patients with advanced laryngeal cancer. The Department of Veterans Affairs Laryngeal Cancer Study Group. BACKGROUND. We performed a prospective, randomized study in patients with previously untreated advanced (Stage III or IV) laryngeal squamous carcinoma to compare the results of induction chemotherapy followed by definitive radiation therapy with those of conventional laryngectomy and postoperative radiation. METHODS. Three hundred thirty-two patients were randomly assigned to receive either three cycles of chemotherapy (cisplatin and fluorouracil) and radiation therapy or surgery and radiation therapy. The clinical tumor response was assessed after two cycles of chemotherapy, and patients with a response received a third cycle followed by definitive radiation therapy (6600 to 7600 cGy). Patients in whom ther was no tumor response or who had locally recurrent cancers after chemotherapy and radiation therapy underwent salvage laryngectomy. RESULTS. After two cycles of chemotherapy, the clinical tumor response was complete in 31 percent of the patients and partial in 54 percent. After a median follow-up of 33 months, the estimated 2-year survival was 68 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 60 to 76 percent) for both treatment groups (P = 0.9846). Patterns of recurrence differed significantly between the two groups, with more local recurrences (P = 0.0005) and fewer distant metastases (P = 0.016) in the chemotherapy group than in the surgery group. A total of 59 patients in the chemotherapy group (36 percent) required total laryngectomy. The larynx was preserved in 64 percent of the patients overall and 64 percent of the patients who were alive and free of disease. CONCLUSIONS. These preliminary results suggest a new role for chemotherapy in patients with advanced laryngeal cancer and indicate that a treatment strategy involving induction chemotherapy and definitive radiation therapy can be effective in preserving the larynx in a high percentage of patients, without compromising overall survival. 
Cardiac manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome: a 1991 update. Cardiac involvement is being identified more often clinically and at autopsy in patients with AIDS. Recent estimates suggest that in the United States as many as 5000 patients per year may have cardiac complications resulting from HIV infection. Patients with AIDS may have pericardial, myocardial, and/or endocardial disease. Pericardial tamponade and/or constriction may be related to neoplasms, infections, or nonspecific effusions. Myocardial dysfunction may result from specific neoplastic infiltration or myocarditis. Particularly intriguing is the role of HIV-1 in the nonspecific myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy that occurs in patients with AIDS. As in other debilitating conditions patients with AIDS can have nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis. Infective endocarditis may be a complication, especially in AIDS associated with intravenous drug abuse. Most patients with AIDS have no overt clinical evidence of cardiac disease. When cardiac dysfunction does develop, the signs and symptoms are often misinterpreted to be the result of noncardiac causes (pulmonary failure or infection) which can mimic heart failure. This review is intended to alert the reader to the cardiac manifestations of AIDS, which present a number of diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. 
Expression of neu protein, epidermal growth factor receptor, and transforming growth factor alpha in breast cancer. Correlation with clinicopathologic parameters. The major objectives of this study were twofold: to determine 1) if growth factors or growth factor receptors were expressed similarly or differently in a clinically well-characterized group of breast cancer patients and 2) if these phenotypic characteristics were associated with any of the commonly used prognostic parameters. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissue from 51 node-positive breast cancer patients were analyzed for the expression of neu, epidermal growth factor-receptor (EGF-R), and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) using immunoperoxidase staining. Positive membranous staining for neu was observed in 15 (29%) tumors. Over-expression of neu was observed in high-grade, estrogen-receptor-negative tumors (P less than 0.05). Epidermal growth factor receptor was expressed in 22 (43%) of the tumors analyzed and found to a greater degree in estrogen-receptor-negative and high-grade tumors (P less than 0.025). A significant correlation between neu and EGF-R expression was also noted. Tumors expressing membranous staining of neu had a greater than 70% chance of expressing EGF-R (P less than 0.01). Expression of TGF alpha was found in 68% of tumors and TGF alpha was detected in grade 1 and 2 tumor to a greater degree than EGF-R. The authors conclude that assaying tumors for these antigens may give additional phenotypic characteristics that can give further insight into the biology of breast cancer. 
Treatment of superior vena cava thrombosis with recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator. Thrombotic occlusion of the superior vena cava is an uncommon but serious complication of chronic indwelling venous catheters. Several reports have shown thrombolytic therapy with intravenous streptokinase or urokinase to be effective in the treatment of this condition. We report a case of superior vena cava thrombosis in a 53-year-old woman receiving chemotherapy for breast carcinoma through a subcutaneously implanted venous access catheter who was successfully treated with peripheral infusion of recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator (rtPA). 
Composition of fat in enteral diets can influence outcome in experimental peritonitis. An animal model of protracted acute peritonitis was used to study the effects on survival of different amounts and types of dietary fat. Guinea pigs (n = 132) were provided with gastrostomies and allowed to recover. Intraperitoneal osmotic pumps were then placed, allowing for effusion of viable bacteria during the next week. Three days after pump implantation, the animals were randomized to receive one of nine diets, differing only in fat content (3.5%, 14%, or 56% of total calories) and fat composition (100% Microlipid [primarily safflower oil, rich in linoleic acid], 100% MaxEPA [fish oil containing 35% omega-three fatty acids], or a 50:50 mixture of both oils). At the end of 2 weeks, survival rates were compared. Among all types of fat used, the level of fat did not affect outcome, with survival rates of 13% (6 of 45) at the low level of fat used, 30% (13 of 44) at the medium level, and 26% (11 of 43) at the high level (P greater than 0.10). However fat composition significantly influenced survival across all levels of fat, with a 39% (17 of 44) survival rate in the groups given equal amounts of Microlipid and MaxEPA, compared either to 21% (9 of 44) for the 100% Microlipid groups, or to 9% (4 of 44) for the 100% MaxEPA groups (p less than 0.05). A second experiment was performed with 58 animals fed five different mixtures of fats, all at 14% of total calories. Diets were made with fat ratios of 100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, and 0:100 Microlipid to MaxEPA. The survival rate in the 50:50 group was 83% (10 of 12), which is significantly higher than the survival rates with any of the others (p less than 0.05). It is concluded that the amount of fat in the diet does not strongly influence outcome in this model. However an equal mixture of safflower and fish oils significantly improves survival rates compared to diets made with single-oil preparations. 
Multi-infarct dementia, subcortical dementia, and hydrocephalus. The diagnostic evaluation of dementia is directed toward the identification of treatable causes. It can be facilitated by classification of the dementia into one of four categories: attentional, amnestic, cognitive, and intentional. Intentional dementia reflects dysfunction of frontal lobe systems, components of which include the frontal cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus, limbic structures, and subcortical white matter. Disorders that affect one or more of these components and produce intentional dementia include Binswanger's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, HIV infection, closed head injury, normal pressure hydrocephalus, neoplasms, syphilis, vitamin B12 deficiency, multiple sclerosis, and a number of uncommon degenerative and acquired syndromes. Depression may resemble intentional dementia. Guidelines for diagnosis and management are discussed. 
Achlorhydria-induced hypergastrinaemia: the role of bacteria. 1. Studies of Helicobacter pylori show that microbes can alter gastrin release. Lack of gastric acid (achlorhydria) causes hypergastrinaemia and allows bacteria to grow within the stomach. We speculated that the bacteria contribute to the rise in gastrin seen after acid inhibition, and tested the idea by comparing plasma gastrin levels during inhibition of acid secretion between germ-free and conventional rats. 2. Matched germ-free and conventional rats (n = 8 per group) received either vehicle (saline) or one of two doses of the histamine-H2-receptor antagonist loxtidine for 1 week. Gastrin was measured in cardiac blood by a specific r.i.a. 3. Plasma gastrin concentrations in germ-free and conventional rats were 59 +/- 11 pmol/l (mean +/- SEM) and 36 +/- 8 pmol/l, respectively, after vehicle, and 153 +/- 30 pmol/l and 181 +/- 27 pmol/l, respectively, after loxtidine at a dose of 10 mg day -1 kg -1, which partially inhibits acid secretion. Administration of loxtidine at a dose of 70 mg day -1 kg-1, which completely inhibits acid secretion, did not produce a significant extra rise in plasma gastrin concentration in germ-free rats (178 +/- 11 pmol/l), but further elevated plasma gastrin concentrations to 278 +/- 26 pmol/l in conventional rats (P less than 0.005 compared with germ-free rats). 4. Loxtidine produced a dose-dependent rise in the number of eosinophils in the gastric mucosa of conventional rats. 5. We conclude that partial inhibition of gastric acid secretion increases gastrin release independently of bacteria, but that bacteria are involved in the further rise in gastrin which occurs on more profound inhibition of gastric acid secretion. 
Functional complementation of ataxia-telangiectasia group D (AT-D) cells by microcell-mediated chromosome transfer and mapping of the AT-D locus to the region 11q22-23. The hereditary human disease ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) is characterized by phenotypic complexity at the cellular level. We show that multiple mutant phenotypes of immortalized AT cells from genetic complementation group D (AT-D) are corrected after the introduction of a single human chromosome from a human-mouse hybrid line by microcell-mediated chromosome transfer. This chromosome is cytogenetically abnormal. It consists primarily of human chromosome 18, but it carries translocated material from the region 11q22-23, where one or more AT genes have been previously mapped by linkage analysis. A cytogenetically normal human chromosome 18 does not complement AT-D cells after microcell-mediated transfer, whereas a normal human chromosome 11 does. We conclude that the AT-D gene is located on chromosome 11q22-23. 
Reversal of alcohol dependence and tolerance by a single administration of flumazenil. Chronic exposure to ethanol is associated with the development of tolerance to the acute effects of ethanol and a withdrawal syndrome characterized by anxiety and seizure susceptibility. In the present study we examined the ability of flumazenil (Ro15-1788), a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, to reverse neuronal and behavioral manifestations of ethanol tolerance and dependence. A single injection of flumazenil (10 mg/kg, 14 hr before withdrawal) to mice administered a liquid diet containing ethanol for 10 days, reduced seizure severity during withdrawal from ethanol. Acute tolerance to ethanol-induced hypothermia was not sensitive to flumazenil treatment, but tolerance and diazepam-induced cross-tolerance to the ataxic effects of ethanol were reversed by a single injection of flumazenil given 2 to 26 hr before evaluation of tolerance. At a biochemical level, the ability of benzodiazepine inverse agonists (e.g., Ro15-4513) to reduce the activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor-operated chloride channels may represent a neuronal manifestation of ethanol dependence (Buck and Harris, 1990). Flumazenil treatment of ethanol-dependent mice 14 hr before isolation of brain membrane vesicles partially reversed the augmentation of Ro15-4513 inhibition of muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake in vitro. These results demonstrate that brief occupation of benzodiazepine receptors by an antagonist may reset the cellular mechanisms responsible for the development of ethanol tolerance and dependence, and support the hypothesis that increased sensitivity to benzodiazepine inverse agonists is involved in the development of ethanol dependence. 
Acne fulminans with hepatosplenomegaly and erythema nodosum migrans. Acne fulminans is a rare form of acne characterized by ulcerative nodules and associated with systemic complications. We report the case of a 17-year-old boy with cystic acne who experienced sudden onset of acne fulminans associated with fever, weight loss, hepatosplenomegaly, and erythema nodosum migrans. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of acne fulminans manifested by hepatomegaly and erythema nodosum migrans. 
Classic and vigorous achalasia: a comparison of manometric, radiographic, and clinical findings. Compared with classic achalasia, vigorous achalasia has been defined as achalasia with relatively high esophageal contraction amplitudes, often with minimal esophageal dilation and prominent tertiary contractions on radiographs, and with the presence of chest pain. However, no study using current manometric techniques has compared manometric, radiographic, and clinical findings in vigorous and classic achalasia or questioned the usefulness of making this distinction. Fifty-four cases involving patients with achalasia whose radiographic and manometric studies were performed within 6 months of each other were available for review. Patients with vigorous achalasia (n = 17), defined by amplitude greater than or equal to 37 mm Hg, and patients with classic achalasia (n = 37), defined as amplitude less than 37 mm Hg, had substantial overlap in radiographic parameters of esophageal dilation, tortuosity, and tertiary contractions. Manometric properties of repetitive waves and lower esophageal sphincter pressure and clinical aspects of chest pain, dysphagia, heartburn, and satisfactory responses to pneumatic dilation were similar in both forms of achalasia. A separate analysis of patients with mean contraction amplitude greater than 60 mm Hg revealed similar findings. It is concluded that use of amplitude as a criterion for classifying achalasia is arbitrary and of dubious value. 
Stroke rehabilitation: a model predicting return home. We undertook this study to describe the changes in functional status for patients in a rehabilitation program for acute stroke and to identify the variables that best predict discharge home. Of 282 patients, 75% were discharged home. Increases in functional status were found for all 18 activities of the Functional Independence Measure from admission to discharge. Significant predictors of discharge disposition in a logistic regression model were the admission and discharge functional status scores, length of stay, and living arrangement before the stroke. The functional status at discharge was the most important predictor. Knowledge of these predictors can contribute to more appropriate treatment and discharge planning. 
Basaloid squamous carcinoma of the hypopharynx and larynx associated with second primary tumors. Basaloid squamous carcinoma is believed to be a histologically distinct variant of squamous cell carcinoma of the neck region with 11 cases reported. Two cases arising in the pyriform fossa and vallecula are reported, both of which were associated with second primary malignant tumors: esophageal small cell carcinoma and palatal squamous cell carcinoma, respectively. The authors suggest that basaloid squamous carcinoma may be associated with a high incidence of second primary tumors in the upper gastrointestinal tract or larynx. 
Sodium-lithium countertransport and cardiorenal abnormalities in essential hypertension. The rate of red blood cell sodium-lithium countertransport is elevated only in a subgroup of patients with essential hypertension. We have therefore compared renal and cardiac function and morphology in two groups of hypertensive patients with high (n = 23) or normal (n = 22) sodium-lithium countertransport (mean +/- SEM: 0.61 +/- 0.10 versus 0.29 +/- 0.07 mmol/l red blood cells.hr). The two groups were similar in age, sex distribution, body mass index, smoking habit, duration of hypertension, and actual levels of untreated blood pressure. Hypertensive patients with elevated sodium-lithium countertransport activity showed elevated glomerular filtration rate (118 +/- 2 versus 109 +/- 2 ml/min.1.73 m2; p less than 0.001), albumin excretion rate (23 +/- 3 versus 14 +/- 2 micrograms/min; p less than 0.001), larger kidney volume (250 +/- 15 versus 203 +/- 13 ml.1.73 m2; p less than 0.01), lower lithium clearance rate (26.7 +/- 0.3 versus 28.9 +/- 0.3 ml/min.1.73 m2; p less than 0.01), and higher total body exchangeable sodium (2,716 +/- 33 versus 2,485 +/- 41 mmol.1.73 m2; p less than 0.01). Left ventricular mass index (139 +/- 6 versus 119 +/- 6 g/m2; p less than 0.05), relative wall thickness (0.39 +/- 0.05 versus 0.29 +/- 0.04 cm; p less than 0.001), and left posterior wall plus intraventricular septum thickness (2.02 +/- 0.04 versus 1.76 +/- 0.03 cm; p less than 0.05) were also higher in patients with high sodium-lithium countertransport. Hypertensive patients with normal sodium-lithium countertransport had renal and cardiac parameters similar to those of a normotensive control group (n = 21) except for a higher glomerular filtration rate and left ventricular mass index. 
Painful tic convulsif caused by a contralateral vertebral artery. The case of trigeminal neuralgia and ipsilateral hemifacial spasm--painful tic convulsif--is presented. Microsurgical exploration revealed compression of the fifth and seventh cranial nerves by a tortuous contralateral vertebral artery. Neurovascular decompression of the roots entry/exit zone completely relieved preoperative facial pain and spasm. 
Glaucoma filtration surgery: new horizontal mattress closure of conjunctival incision. We developed a conjunctival wound closure technique with the idea of decreasing the incidence of wound leak following glaucoma filtration surgery. A micropoint 9-0 nylon vascular needle is used as a running mattress suture to close the limbal conjunctiva in routine fornix-based flap trabeculectomy surgery, trabeculectomy surgery with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and combined cataract and trabeculectomy surgery. In a series of 52 eyes in 52 patients in which we used this technique, there have been no cases of flat anterior chamber or significant choroidal effusion, complications often occurring secondary to trabeculectomy which require further intervention. 
Oxygen-dependent lipid peroxidation during lung ischemia. The effect of alveolar oxygen tension on lung lipid peroxidation during lung ischemia was evaluated by using isolated rat lungs perfused with synthetic medium. After a 5-min equilibration period, global ischemia was produced by discontinuing perfusion while ventilation continued with gas mixtures containing 5% CO2 and a fixed oxygen concentration between 0 and 95%. Lipid peroxidation was assessed by measurement of tissue thiobarbituric acid-reactive products and conjugated dienes. Control studies (no ischemia) showed no change in parameters of lipid peroxidation during 1 h of perfusion and ventilation with 20% or 95% O2. With 60 min of ischemia, there was increased lipid peroxidation which varied with oxygen content of the ventilating gas and was markedly inhibited by ventilation with N2. Perfusion with 5-, 8-, 11-, 14-eicosatetraynoic acid indicated that generation of eicosanoids during ischemia accounted for approximately 40-50% of lung lipid peroxide production. Changes of CO2 content of the ventilating gas (to alter tissue pH) or of perfusate glucose concentration had no effect on lipid peroxidation during ischemia, but perfusion at 8% of the normal flow rate prevented lipid peroxidation. Lung dry/wet weight measured after 3 min of reperfusion showed good correlation between lung fluid accumulation and lipid peroxidation. These results indicate that reperfusion is not necessary for lipid peroxidation with ischemic insult of the lung and provide evidence that elevated PO2 during ischemia accelerates the rate of tissue injury. 
A case of progressive encephalomyelitis with rigidity and positive antiglutamic acid dehydrogenase antibodies. A 50 year old woman developed progressive encephalomyelitis with rigidity over a three year period. Her CSF contained oligoclonal bands and both her serum and CSF contained antibodies directed against GABA-ergic synapses (antiglutamic acid dehydrogenase antibodies). These antibodies have recently been described in cases of stiff man syndrome. Both disorders may be part of a clinical spectrum that has an underlying autoimmune basis. 
Familial breast-ovarian cancer locus on chromosome 17q12-q23. Familial breast cancer has been linked to the D17S74 locus on chromosome 17q. To confirm this finding and to investigate whether ovarian cancer is also linked to this locus, five large families with a hereditary predisposition to cancer of the breast and ovary were investigated. Three families were positive for linkage. For the largest family the lod score was 2.72. These findings suggest that the chromosomal region 17q12-q23, previously shown to contain a gene for early-onset breast cancer, is also associated with a proportion of hereditary ovarian cancers. 
Neuromyotonia in hereditary motor neuropathy. Two siblings with a distal motor neuropathy experienced cramping and difficulty in relaxing their muscles after voluntary contraction. Electromyographic recordings at rest revealed repetitive high voltage spontaneous electrical discharges that were accentuated after voluntary contraction and during ischaemia. Regional neuromuscular blockage with curare indicated hyperexcitability of peripheral nerve fibres and nerve block suggested that the ectopic activity originated in proximal segments of the nerve. Symptoms were improved with diphenylhydantoin, carbamazepine and tocainide. 
Trans-hydroxyl group configuration on carbons 2 and 3 of glucose. Responsible for acute inhibition of myo-inositol transport? Cultured neuroblastoma, cerebral microvessel endothelial, and retinoblastoma cells were used to examine the mechanism of acute inhibition by D-glucose of myo-inositol uptake. Acute exposure of the cells to 30 mM D-glucose caused a significant decrease in Na(+)-dependent myo-inositol uptake in all three cell types. The effect of D-glucose to acutely inhibit myo-inositol uptake was dependent on the extracellular glucose concentration and was not reversed by sorbinil. 2-Deoxy-D-glucose (30 mM), 3-O-methyl-D-glucose (30 mM), and cytochalasin B (100 microM) did not acutely inhibit myo-inositol uptake. These data suggest that the hydroxyl groups on carbons 2 and 3 of D-glucose, which in a Haworth projection appear trans to each other, are important for inhibitory activity. Other monosaccharides (30 mM) having a similar 2,3-trans-diol configuration, L-glucose, D- and L-fucose, D- and L-galactose, D- and L-xylose, and D-arabinose, all to varying degrees significantly inhibited myo-inositol uptake. In all cases, the L-isomers were more potent inhibitors of myo-inositol uptake than the corresponding D-isomers. Monosaccharides (30 mM) having hydroxyl groups on carbons 2 and 3 in a cis configuration, D-mannose, L-rhamnose, D-allose, and D-ribose, did not acutely inhibit myo-inositol uptake. Replacing the hydroxyl group with a fluorine on carbons 2 or 3 of D-glucose negated its inhibitory activity of myo-inositol uptake. In contrast, replacing the hydroxyl group with a fluorine on carbon 6 of D-glucose did not block its inhibition of myo-inositol uptake. 
Pathogenesis of edema in constrictive pericarditis. Studies of body water and sodium, renal function, hemodynamics, and plasma hormones before and after pericardiectomy. BACKGROUND. The pathogenesis of sodium and water accumulation in chronic constrictive pericarditis is not well understood and may differ from that in patients with chronic congestive heart failure due to myocardial disease. This study was undertaken to investigate some of the mechanisms. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using standard techniques, the hemodynamics, water and electrolyte spaces, renal function, and plasma concentrations of hormones were measured in 16 patients with untreated constrictive pericarditis and were measured again in eight patients after pericardiectomy. The average hemodynamic measurements were as follows: cardiac output, 1.98 l/min/m2; right atrial pressure, 22.9 mm Hg; pulmonary wedge pressure, 24.2 mm Hg; and mean pulmonary artery pressure 30.2 mm Hg. The systemic and pulmonary vascular resistances (36.3 +/- 2.5 and 3.2 +/- 0.3 mm Hg.min.m2/l, respectively) were increased. Significant increases occurred in total body water (36%), extracellular volume (81%), plasma volume (53%), and exchangeable sodium (63%). The renal plasma flow was only moderately decreased (49%), and the glomerular filtration rate was normal. Significant increases also occurred in plasma concentrations of norepinephrine (3.6 times normal), renin activity (7.2 time normal), aldosterone (3.4 times normal), cortisol (1.4 times normal), growth hormone (21.8 times normal), and atrial natriuretic peptide (5 times normal). The ratio of left atrial to aortic diameter measured by echocardiography was only minimally increased (1.29 +/- 0.04), indicating that in constrictive pericarditis the atria are prevented from expanding. The studies repeated after pericardiectomy in the eight patients showed that all measurements returned toward normal. CONCLUSIONS. The restricted distensibility of the atria, in constrictive pericarditis, limits the secretion of atrial natriuretic factor and, thus, reduces its natriuretic and diuretic effects. This results in retention of water and sodium greater than that occurring in patients with edema from myocardial disease. The arterial pressure is maintained more by the expansion of the blood volume than by an increase in the peripheral vascular resistance. 
Tumor size in endometrial cancer. Tumor size was determined in 142 patients with clinical Stage I endometrial cancer treated primarily by total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and lymph node biopsies between July 1979 and August 1988. Only 4% of patients with tumor size less than or equal to 2 cm had lymph node metastasis; this increased to 15% for tumors more than 2 cm and increased further to 35% when the entire uterine cavity was involved (multivariate P = 0.01). Five-year survival was 98% for patients with tumors less than or equal to 2 cm, 84% with tumors more than 2 cm, and 64% with tumors involving the whole uterine cavity (Mantel-Cox P = 0.005). For endometrial cancer patients with Grade 2 tumors and less than one-half myometrial invasion, the risk of lymph node metastasis is often considered too low to justify adjuvant pelvic radiation therapy. This intermediate-risk group is better defined by including tumor size as a prognostic factor. For this subgroup (Grade 2, less than one-half endometrial invasion) there were no lymph node metastasis associated with tumors less than 2 cm, but 18% had nodal disease when tumors were larger than 2 cm. Tumor size is an important prognostic factor that is particularly helpful in directing adjuvant radiation therapy in patients without staging lymph node biopsies. 
Isradipine in the treatment of hypertension. Some additional effects observed during a one-year study. After a placebo run-in phase of four weeks' duration, 1.25 mg or 2.5 mg isradipine twice daily orally was administered for one year to 23 patients who had been diagnosed as hypertensive. Good control of blood pressure was recorded in the majority of patients until the third month of treatment. After five months, it was necessary to add a beta-blocker to the treatment regimens of some of the patients in order to maintain the target blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg. Patients were exercise-tested using bicycle ergometry. After three months, diastolic blood pressure was significantly lower during exercise when comparing the treatment values with those taken at the end of the placebo run-in (baseline values). Values for systolic blood pressure did not differ between treatment and baseline. These results may be explained by the decrease in peripheral vascular resistance produced by isradipine. After one year, the results were modified by the administration of the beta-blocker bopindolol (Sandonorm, Sandoz Pharma Ltd., Basle, Switzerland). Total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B levels did not change during treatment. Triglycerides were lower after three months, but slightly higher after one year, with an average value lying within the normal range. The influence of isradipine on plasma renin activity (PRA) and aldosterone levels was followed by measuring values at rest and during exercise. It was found that PRA was higher during the first three months, then inversely inhibited to lower levels. Aldosterone levels were also increased after three months, but without a subsequent decrease. The results are compared with those obtained with diltiazem in a similar treatment regimen. 
Induction of HL60 cell differentiation by tiazofurin and its analogues: characterization and efficacy. Among inducers of myeloid differentiation for leukemic cells, tiazofurin is of special interest because its mechanism of action is known; it inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase and thus decreases the guanine nucleotide pool. Reported here are three aspects of tiazofurin induction of myeloid differentiation in HL60 human acute promyelocytic leukemia cells. First, inductive efficacy was evaluated for analogues ara-tiazofurin, xylo-tiazofurin, and selenazofurin, for dinucleotide anabolites thiazole-4-carboxamide adenine dinucleotide (TAD) and selenazole-4-carboxamide adenine dinucleotide (SAD), and for a phosphodiesterase-resistant TAD analogue, beta-methylene TAD. The results showed that the parent compounds are more effective inducers than the dinucleotide derivatives and that the selenazole analogues are more effective inducers than the thiazole compounds. Second, HL60 cell induction by tiazofurin was shown to be synergistic with that produced by the antiviral agent ribavirin. Finally, tiazofurin was found to induce expression of a phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-sensitive Fc gamma-receptor III (FcRIII) on HL60 cells, a feature consistent with neutrophilic, but not monocytic, differentiation. 
Plasma levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1, beta-thromboglobulin, and fibrinopeptide A before, during, and after treatment of acute myocardial infarction with alteplase. Plasma levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1), beta-thromboglobulin (beta TG), and fibrinopeptide A (FPA) were followed over 24 hours in 30 patients treated with alteplase for acute myocardial infarction. Samples were taken at baseline (T Oh), after 90 minutes (under alteplase, no heparin, T 1.5h), after 120 minutes (under alteplase and heparin, T 2h), 30 minutes after thrombolytic therapy (T 3.5h), as well as 12 hours (T 12h) and 24 hours (T 24h) after baseline. PAI-1 antigen levels (55 +/- 9 ng/mL at T Oh, mean +/- SEM) decreased to 35 +/- 5 (T 1.5h) and 40 +/- 6 (T 2h) ng/mL under alteplase, before increasing to 84 +/- 22 (T 3.5h), 130 +/- 30 (T 12h), and 64 +/- 7 (T 24h) ng/mL after therapy, P less than .001. A high baseline PAI-1 activity (18 +/- 3 ng/mL) decreased to 2.0 +/- 0.4 (T 1.5h) and 1.7 +/- 0.2 (T 2h) under alteplase and increased to 32 +/- 5 (T 12h) and 19 +/- 3 (T 24h) ng/mL after therapy (P less than .0001). beta TG levels (339 +/- 105 ng/mL at T Oh) decreased to 203 +/- 48 (T 2h), 154 +/- 51 (T 3.5h), 187 +/- 40 (T 12h), and 142 +/- 32 (T 24h) ng/mL under heparin (P less than .01). FPA levels (34 +/- 9 ng/mL at T Oh) increased to 85 +/- 15 ng/mL under alteplase alone (T 1.5h) and normalized under heparin (11 +/- 4, 6 +/- 2, 4 +/- 2, and 3 +/- 1 ng/mL at T 2h, T 3.5h, T 12h, and T 24h, respectively). A high level of FPA at T 3.5h correlated with reocclusion (33 +/- 12 ng/mL, n = 4 v 2.9 +/- 0.5 ng/mL, n = 21, P less than .005). We conclude that plasma levels of PAI-1 antigen as well as activity markedly increase after alteplase therapy of acute myocardial infarction. The high activity of PAI-1 and decreasing beta TG levels suggest that platelets do not contribute significantly to this phenomenon. The marked increase of FPA levels under recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator alone and its normalization under heparin emphasize the important role of concomitant anticoagulation in controlling further intravasal fibrin generation under alteplase. 
Mammography-guided stereotactic fine-needle aspiration cytology of nonpalpable breast lesions: prospective comparison with surgical biopsy results. We assessed the usefulness of fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) in evaluating nonpalpable breast abnormalities by prospectively performing stereotactic mammography-guided FNAC on 100 women undergoing surgical excisional biopsy. Mammographic and cytologic diagnoses, on a scale of 1 (benign) to 4 (malignant), were assigned for each case and compared with the surgical pathologic diagnosis. Sensitivity and specificity were examined at different diagnostic cutoff points for regarding a mammographic or cytologic diagnosis as positive or negative. Of the 100 breast biopsy specimens, 70 were benign and 30 were malignant. For both mammography and FNAC, the optimal diagnostic cutoff point was between diagnosis 2 (mammography, probably benign; cytology, atypical) and 3 (mammography and cytology both suspicious for malignancy). At this cutoff point, FNAC had a sensitivity of 0.77 and specificity of 1.00, vs 0.73 sensitivity and 0.79 specificity for mammography. Pearson coefficient analysis revealed significant correlations between both mammographic and FNAC diagnoses and surgical pathology (p less than .001 for both). Our results suggest that use of mammography-guided FNAC may reduce the number of breast biopsies performed for benign lesions. 
Heterotopic bone formation after hip replacement. The influence of the type of osteoarthritis. The relationship between heterotopic bone formation and the morphological type of osteoarthritis was examined after 43 hip replacements. Of the 43 hips studied, nine were atrophic, 19 were normotrophic, and 15 were hypertrophic. The incidence of heterotopic bone formation in the atrophic type was 11%, in the normotrophic type 32%, and in the hypertrophic type 87%. The difference between each type was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). 
Compliance of adolescents with coeliac disease with a gluten free diet. A cohort of 123 patients with coeliac disease, diagnosed in the first three years of life and followed up for at least 10 years, was reevaluated during the teenage period in terms of compliance with the diet and clinical state. Mucosal structure and lymphocytes were assessed in small intestinal biopsy specimens obtained from 36 subjects, by computerised image analysis. Of these adolescents with coeliac disease, 65% were adhering to a strict gluten free diet, 11.4% were on a gluten free diet but with occasional gluten intake, and 23.6% were on a gluten containing diet. Clinical symptoms occurred more frequently in patients on a gluten containing diet, but not in patients on a semi-strict diet. Occasional intake of small amounts (0.06-2 g/day) of gluten did not produce increased concentrations of antigliadin antibodies but resulted in an appreciably increased crypt epithelial volume and expanded crypt intraepithelial lymphocyte population. 
Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy versus conservative treatment for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and bleeding esophageal varices. We performed endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) in the treatment of 37 patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The results were compared with those in another 33 HCC patients treated only conservatively, without EIS, during the same period. A majority of both groups died within 3 weeks after treatment. Comparing the two groups, there was no significant difference in fatal bleeding (66% vs 75%), but significantly fewer of the EIS patients died of the index hemorrhage (43% vs. 83%; p less than 0.01). Also, in the absence of portal vein thrombosis, EIS significantly reduced the risk of fatal bleeding (31% vs. 73%; p less than 0.25). The mean days of survival were 32 +/- 15 (range, 2 to 320) in the EIS group and 10 +/- 14 (range, 2 to 270) in the compared group (p less than 0.001). We conclude that EIS provides temporary control of acute esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with unresectable HCC. The major factors contributing to EIS failure are the lethal propensity of the underlying disease and portal vein thrombosis. 
X-linked hypophosphatemia. Genetic and clinical correlates. X-linked hypophosphatemia is a hereditary form of rickets that results from an isolated renal tubular wasting of phosphate. The clinical features unique to this disorder, and the recent advances in our understanding of vitamin D metabolism and molecular genetics in X-linked hypophosphatemia are reviewed. Finally, a succinct critique of the controversial treatment modalities round up this review. 
Necrosis of the small intestine after resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Small bowel infarction following abdominal aortic reconstruction is extremely rare, and the prognosis remains poor. This report describes a 65-year-old man with small bowel infarction after resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. He was successfully treated with resection of the ischemic segment from the distal duodenum to the mid-small bowel and construction of a duodenoileostomy. The postoperative course was uneventful. 
Association of Epstein-Barr virus with undifferentiated gastric carcinomas with intense lymphoid infiltration. Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma. Some undifferentiated gastric carcinomas with intense lymphoid infiltration have a striking resemblance to nasopharyngeal lymphoepithelioma. The authors identified eight such cases (seven patients from Japan and one from the United States) of undifferentiated gastric carcinoma (lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma [LELC]) and examined them for Epstein-Barr (EBV) viral sequences using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and in situ hybridization (ISH) techniques. EBV was detected in seven of the eight cases by PCR, including a lymph-node metastasis. ISH that was performed in six of these cases showed EBV genomes to be uniformly present in the carcinoma cells and not present in the reactive lymphoid infiltrate or normal gastric mucosa. PCR of a polymorphic EBV locus (lymphocyte-determined membrane antigen) showed that a single genotype was present in each gastric LELC, consistent with a clonal process. These findings suggest that some undifferentiated gastric carcinomas are EBV-related and that focal EBV infection occurs before transformation. 
The use of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in patients with aortic aneurysms. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) has revolutionized management of most patients with urolithiasis. The effect of ESWL on patients with an aortic aneurysm is unknown and its safety is questioned by the absence of any case reports in the urological literature. A 68-year-old man with an abdominal aortic aneurysm underwent successful ESWL using the Medstone STS 1050 lithotriptor for right renal calculi. Continuous monitoring of the aneurysm was done using real-time ultrasound during the ESWL treatment. Careful preoperative evaluation in conjunction with appropriate intraoperative and postoperative monitoring makes ESWL management of patients with associated aortic aneurysm possible. 
Arthroscopic surgery for treatment of closed lock. This study evaluates the first 51 consecutive cases treated for limitation of mandibular movement due to closed lock. Eighty joints (22 unilateral, 29 bilateral) were treated with arthroscopic surgery. The mean follow-up was 29.4 weeks, with a range of 6 to 77 weeks. These results showed an immediate improvement after arthroscopy followed by a more gradual improvement during the next 6 months, with a plateau in improvement thereafter. All cases, unilateral and bilateral, generally reached the same level of opening. 
Laser treatment of benign cutaneous vascular lesions. Benign cutaneous vascular lesions have been treated with a wide array of modalities. Lasers are a comparatively new form of treatment for cutaneous blood vessel abnormalities. Initially, results following laser treatment were disappointing, primarily because of widespread thermal injury to surrounding normal tissue. Recent developments in laser technology and the introduction of the tunable dye laser offer the ability to selectively target laser energy at specific chromophores such as oxyhemoglobin. The technique of selective photothermolysis provides successful treatment of benign vascular lesions with minimal damage to adjacent structures. 
Lipoprotein profiles in hypercholesterolemic children [published erratum appears in Am J Dis Child 1991 May;145(5):515] Atherosclerosis is a process that begins in early life. Coronary heart disease is the result of complex interactions among a variety of risk factors of which hypercholesterolemia is but one. During routine screening, 500 children were identified with total cholesterol levels above the 95th percentile of 5.2 mmol/L (200 mg/dL). Lipoprotein profiles were then performed to confirm and delineate their lipid abnormalities. A definable lipid disorder was present in 85% of such children. Abnormal lipoprotein patterns included 292 children with type IIa, 99 with type IIb, and 25 with type IV phenotypes. An abnormally low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of less than 0.9 mmol/L (35 mg/dL) was observed in 20 children. Only 5% of patients were identified as being hypercholesterolemic because they had high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels above the 95th percentile of 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL). Thirty-two percent of children with total cholesterol levels above 5.2 mmol/L had a family member (sibling, parent, uncle, aunt, or grandparent) with a myocardial infarction prior to 55 years of age. Data from this study support universal cholesterol testing after 3 years of age and lipoprotein profiles for those with levels above 5.2 mmol/L. 
Incidence of ultrasound-detected intrahepatic hematomas due to Tru-cut needle liver biopsy. This is a prospective study in which 120 patients with diffuse liver disease undergoing liver biopsy were followed by serial ultrasounds to determine the incidence of postbiopsy intrahepatic hematoma formation. Forty-five of the patients had a blind biopsy, while the remaining 75 patients had a biopsy performed during laparoscopy. In both groups a 2.0-mm Tru-cut needle was employed. The overall incidence of postbiopsy hematoma formation was 18.3%, with approximately the same results occurring in blind biopsy patients (20%) and laparoscopy-guided biopsy patients (17%). Only two patients had significant pain associated with the hematoma formation (one from each group), one of whom had evidence of intraperitoneal bleed and rebleed. Our results suggest that postbiopsy asymptomatic hematomas occur more frequently than had been generally thought and that laparoscopy-guided biopsy is not safer than blind biopsy. 
Splenosis presenting as a left renal mass indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. Splenosis following splenic trauma is a common but underdiagnosed entity before surgical exploration. In all previously reported cases the ectopic splenic tissue was distinctly separate from the kidney. To our knowledge we report the first known case in which the splenic tissue was located in direct apposition with the kidney. Using conventional imaging techniques, including renal ultrasonography, abdominal computerized tomography and selective renal arteriography, this ectopic splenic tissue appeared to be part of the left kidney and was indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. The pathophysiology, clinical presentation and diagnostic studies of splenosis are reviewed. 
The effects of alcohol on the female brain: a neuropathological study. This quantitative neuropathological study compared the brains of seventeen alcoholic females with twenty non-alcoholic female controls. There was a significant (P less than 0.001) increase in the pericerebral space value (control 9.5; alcoholic 16.3) indicating shrinkage of the brain. Cerebral grey and white matter volumes were determined morphometrically. There was a significant decrease in the cerebral white matter volume (P less than .02) in the alcoholics. The cerebral grey matter volume was unchanged. These changes parallel those described previously in male alcoholics. Further studies will be necessary to establish the relative severity of the brain damage in males and females. 
Failed back surgery syndrome: 5-year follow-up in 102 patients undergoing repeated operation. The indications for repeated operation in patients with persistent or recurrent pain after lumbosacral spine surgery are not well established. Long-term results have been reported infrequently, and in no case has mean follow-up exceeded 3 years. We report 5-year mean follow-up for a series of repeated operations performed between 1979 and 1983. Patient characteristics and modes of treatment have been assessed as predictors of long-term outcome. One hundred two patients with "failed back surgery syndrome" (averaging 2.4 previous operations), who underwent a repeated operation for lumbosacral decompression and/or stabilization, were interviewed by a disinterested third party a mean of 5.05 years postoperatively. Successful outcome (at least 50% sustained relief of pain for 2 years or at last follow-up, and patient satisfaction with the result) was recorded in 34% of patients. Twenty-one patients who were disabled preoperatively returned to work postoperatively; 15 who were working preoperatively became disabled or retired postoperatively. Improvements in activities of daily living were recorded, overall, as often as decrements. Loss of neurological function (strength, sensation, bowel and bladder control) was reported by patients more often than improvement. Most patients reduced or eliminated analgesic intake. Statistical analysis (including univariate and multivariate logistic regression) of patient characteristics as prognostic factors showed significant advantages for young patients and for female patients. Favorable outcome also was associated with a history of good results from previous operations, with the absence of epidural scar requiring surgical lysis, with employment before surgery, and with predominance of radicular (as opposed to axial) pain. 
Extramedullary hematopoiesis in cerebellar hemangioblastoma. Extramedullary hematopoiesis and paraneoplastic erythrocytosis are uncommon in cerebellar hemangioblastoma, and their concomitant occurrence has not been reported. In a study of 26 cases of hemangioblastoma, we found extramedullary hematopoiesis in 4 tumors; one was associated with erythrocytosis. The significance of this association and the possible histogenetic origin of extramedullary hematopoiesis in cerebellar hemangioblastoma are discussed. 
Cardiomyopathy in blacks. The intent in this chapter has been to bring to general awareness the fact that myocardial dysfunction represents a significant proportion of cardiovascular disease affecting blacks; in particular, dilated cardiomyopathy is a new frontier in cardiology, which demands an aggressive approach. At present, the prognosis is not good in the majority of cases; despite the best medical therapy, most of those with cardiomyopathy are doomed to death within a few years after the onset of congestive heart failure. Many of these are young African-American men in the prime of their lives. Cardiac transplantation offers some hope from this desperate situation, but donor shortages as well as restrictive criteria for prospective recipients and socioeconomic constraints, which may deny many blacks the opportunity to receive a transplant, make this option less than ideal. 
Pathogenesis of migraine. Endothelial cells are not just a semipermeable membrane that forms a barrier between the blood and the vascular smooth muscles. This cell system is a highly active metabolic endocrine organ. It not only produces a number of important substances in vascular and neural homeostasis but also inactivates vasoactive substances such as serotonin and bradykinin. In addition, it produces endothelin-1 and angiotensin II; more importantly in the context of migraine, endothelial cells produce the vasodilators prostacyclin and EDRF-NO, both of which are local (paracrine) hormones. The physiologic function of endothelial cells is affected by aspirin, which prevents prostacyclin formation but has little effect on normal blood pressure. From this information, one can infer that endothelial cell production of prostacyclin does not play an important part in normal cardiovascular control. On the other hand, the administration of Ng-monomethyl-L-arginine causes immediate increases in blood pressure. Because the administration of this substance inhibits the release of EDRF-NO, it appears that this paracrine endothelial hormone actively dilates the normal circulation. It is of cardinal importance that damage or flow perturbations of cell membranes of the endothelial lining of blood vessels cause an increased production of prostaglandins. However, smooth muscle cells underlying the endothelial lining also synthesize prostacyclin. This mechanism is thought to be held in reserve to reinforce local production of prostacyclin and vasodilatation when cell damage to the endothelial lining occurs and EDRF-No is not produced. Many theories for the causation of migraine have been proposed, and some have been reviewed. Those holding sway tend to ignore inconsistencies and cite supporting evidence in favor of their pet explanation only. I therefore have no hesitation to show that the best explanation at present, based on the most recent cellular evidence, explains all features of migraine and the response of migraineurs to therapy. The endothelial cell is the most likely site of the primary abnormality (Fig. 1). Although under physiologic circumstances perivascular innervation and endothelial systems closely interact in the control of vascular tone during pathologic conditions such as ischemia, the dominant role in protecting the circulation is endothelium-mediated. The biology of headache is so diverse and our ignorance sufficiently pervasive that the investigation of endothelial cell function may solve the mystery of migraine. To match the postulated crucial role of the endothelial cell in the pathogenesis of migraine, another cell would have to be ubiquitously present throughout the vasculature and not just confined to the central nervous system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Use of bipolar endoprosthesis and bone grafting for acetabular reconstruction. Reconstruction operations for severe acetabular defects using bone grafting and a bipolar hemiarthroplasty retrospectively reviewed in 81 hips between 1983 and 1985. The most common indication was failed total hip arthroplasty. Bone grafts consisted of cancellous bone, bone blocks, and wafer-type grafts used singly or in combination. The follow-up period was 12 to 36 months postoperatively (mean, 16 months). There were 22 perioperative complications (27%) and 13 postoperative complications (16.7%). A majority of hips showed some graft resorption and component migration that worsened with time. There were four graft failures with subluxation of the component, one prosthesis dislocation, and one component disassembly. Ten hips had revision (13.3%) for a variety of reasons. Nevertheless, clinically, most patients (83%) believed the procedure had improved their condition. Reconstruction for severe acetabular defects can be achieved successfully using this technique, but long-term follow-up evaluation is needed to fully assess the role of this procedure in relation to other available options. 
Calcifying odontogenic cyst. A review of ninety-two cases with reevaluation of their nature as cysts or neoplasms, the nature of ghost cells, and subclassification. Ninety-two cases of calcifying odontogenic cyst (COC) were reviewed with special consideration of their nature as cysts or neoplasms, the nature of ghost cells, and classification on the basis of clinicopathologic features. The cases were divided into 79 (85.9%) cysts and 13 (14.1%) neoplasms. The cysts occurred as four variants: (1) nonproliferative COC (35 cases), characterized by a simple unicystic structure; (2) proliferative COC (17 cases), characterized by a cystic structure with multiple daughter cysts, extensive ghost cell formations, and marked tendency for calcification; (3) ameloblastomatous COC (11 cases), characterized by ameloblastoma-like, cyst-lining epithelium with ghost cells and calcifications; and (4) COC associated with odontoma (16 cases), which combined features of COC and odontoma. The neoplasms occurred as three variants: (1) ameloblastoma ex COC (two cases), which showed unifocal and multifocal intraluminal and intramural ameloblastoma proliferating from the COC-lining epithelium; (2) peripheral epithelial odontogenic ghost cell tumor (eight cases), which occurred in the gingiva and resembled peripheral ameloblastoma except for clustered ghost cells in the central portion of epithelial islands and the presence of juxtaepithelial dentinoid; and (3) central epithelial odontogenic ghost cell tumor (three cases). The latter showed ameloblastomatous or adenomatoid odontogenic tumor-like epithelial clusters with ghost cell formation and juxtaepithelial dentinoid. The clinical features of cystic and neoplastic variants were tabulated and described. On the basis of histopathologic features and their immunohistochemical reaction to polyclonal antikeratin antibody, it is suggested that ghost cells might be the result of coagulative necrosis. 
Expression of shared idiotypes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma. The expression of shared idiotypes (Slds) has been studied on malignant CD5+B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) using a panel of 37 murine monoclonal antibodies previously demonstrated to be reactive with Slds derived from follicular B-cell lymphomas. Thirteen anti-Slds identified tumor cells from 31 of 105 (30%) CLL patients and 4 of 6 SLL patients. In comparison, the same panel of anti-Slds is reactive with 33% of follicular and diffuse B-cell lymphomas. Ten of these anti-Slds reacted with CLL cases at similar frequencies to that of the B-cell lymphomas. Two anti-Slds, which are known to react with autoantibodies, were significantly more prevalent in CLL than in B-cell lymphomas. These data confirm the presence of Slds in CLL and provide further evidence of an association between CLL and autoimmunity. The identification of a panel of antibodies reactive with a significant number of CLL and SLL patients will facilitate the application of anti-idiotype antibody therapy in these diseases. 
Reversible operculum syndrome caused by progressive epilepsia partialis continua in a child with left hemimegalencephaly. In a child with left hemimegalencephaly and seizures, a reversible operculum syndrome developed when continuous epileptic discharges spread from the left hemisphere to the contralateral central regions. The operculum syndrome lasted for three months until left hemispherectomy was performed. Soon after surgery the seizures and the operculum syndrome resolved. The operculum syndrome is a facio-pharyngo-glosso-masticatory diplegia usually due to structural lesions in both opercular regions. The reversibility of the syndrome in the reported case demonstrates that the operculum syndrome is sometimes functional rather than lesional. 
Ceftriaxone-associated gallbladder sludge. Identification of calcium-ceftriaxone salt as a major component of gallbladder precipitate Ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, is partially excreted into bile. With its clinical use, the formation of gallbladder sludge detected by ultrasonography has been reported. Four surgical specimens were examined and no gallstones were found. Instead, fine precipitates of 20-250 microns were present. Microscopically, there was a small number of cholesterol monohydrate crystals and bilirubin granules among an abundant amount of granular-crystalline material that was not morphologically cholesterol monohydrate crystals. The chemical composition of the precipitates (n = 4) was determined. There was a small amount of cholesterol (1.7% +/- 0.8%) and bilirubin (13.9% +/- 0.74%). The major component of the precipitate was a residue. On further analysis using thin-layer chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography, and electron microprobe analysis, the residue was identified as a calcium salt of ceftriaxone. The residue also had identical crystal morphology and chromatographic elution profile as authentic calcium-ceftriaxone standards. It is concluded that ceftriaxone, after excretion and being concentrated in the gallbladder bile, can form a precipitate. The major constituent has been identified as a ceftriaxone-calcium salt. 
Distal transfer of the greater trochanter. After congenital dislocation of the hip, Perthes' disease and some other conditions, the femoral neck may be short and the greater trochanter in a relatively proximal position. Distal transfer of the greater trochanter is an effective and relatively simple operation to correct this deformity. We have reviewed 26 patients (27 hips) at a mean follow-up of eight years. Pain relief and improvement in gait were maintained in 74%, and the poor results were largely due to progression of osteoarthritis. We describe a 'gear-stick' sign of trochanteric impingement, which is useful in the pre-operative assessment of patients. 
Surgical treatment of carcinoma of the gastric stump. To evaluate retrospectively the surgical treatment of patients with gastric stump cancer following gastrectomy for benign disease, we reviewed 52 patients operated on at the National Cancer Centre, Tokyo, between 1962 and 1988. Resection was carried out in 47 patients (90 per cent) and with curative intent in 36 (69 per cent). Stage distribution was: stage 1, 15 patients; stage 2, 5; stage 3, 9; stage 4, 23. In 36 cases curatively resected, 32 had completion total gastrectomy and four had subtotal resection. An R1 resection was performed in 11 patients and an R2 in 25. We had two hospital deaths and a 5-year survival rate excluding hospital deaths of 39 per cent. The 5-year survival rates of resected cases, curative cases and those having metastatic nodes were 43 per cent, 57 per cent and 29 per cent respectively. Radical resection is a reasonable treatment for gastric stump cancer as it is for primary cancer of the stomach. 
The activity of 22-oxacalcitriol in osteoblast-like (ROS 17/2.8) cells. 22-Oxacalcitriol (OCT), a synthetic vitamin D analog, can mimic the ability of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3[1,25-(OH)2D3] to differentiate leukemia and skin cells, to enhance the immune response and to suppress PTH secretion, but has much less calcemic activity. The mechanism for this selective action is not understood. OCT has been shown to have a diminished ability to mobilize calcium from bone in vivo, but in vitro findings are contradictory. Little is known about the effect of OCT on bone forming cells. Therefore, the present studies were designed to investigate the actions of OCT at the molecular level in the osteoblast-like cell line, ROS 17/2.8. 3H-OCT was bound to the vitamin D receptor (VDR) in intact cells at the same rate as 3H-1,25-(OH)2D3. As previously found for 1,25-(OH)2D3, the time course of specific binding of OCT was biphasic, with an initial plateau at 1 h and a further increase from 2-8 h. Scatchard analysis demonstrated that exposure to 3H-1,25-(OH)2D3 increased VDR from 24 fmol/mg protein at 2 h to 85 fmol/mg protein at 8 h. Exposure to 3H-OCT increased VDR from 22 to 76 fmol/mg protein, indicating that OCT is also capable of up-regulating the VDR in ROS 17/2.8 cells. In contrast to the lower affinity of OCT for VDR reported for chick intestine and HL-60 cells, the Kd for OCT in intact ROS 17/2.8 cells was identical to that for 1,25-(OH)2D3. The effect of OCT on osteocalcin secretion and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in ROS 17/2.8 cells was also determined. Pretreatment for 24 h with either 1,25-(OH)2D3 or OCT resulted in a dose-dependent enhancement of osteocalcin secretion. A 2-fold stimulation by both compounds was observed with 10(-7)M. ALP activity was measured after a 72-h incubation with 10(-7)M 1,25-(OH)2D3 or OCT. Both compounds increased ALP activity to the same extent. Stimulation by OCT of VDR levels, ALP activity, and osteocalcin secretion were inhibited by the addition of 5 microM cycloheximide, indicating that these actions of OCT require new protein synthesis. Thus, OCT, like 1,25-(OH)2D3, up-regulates the vitamin D receptor, stimulates osteocalcin secretion, and increases ALP activity in ROS 17/2.8 cells, suggesting that the analog may be as active as 1,25-(OH)2D3 in stimulating bone formation in vivo. The low activity of OCT in mobilizing calcium from bone in vivo does not appear to be due to an inability of this compound to act on osteoblasts. 
Neuropsychologic test performance in amateur boxers. Cognitive functions of 23 amateur boxers were assessed immediately before and after an amateur boxing event. A range of cognitive measures were employed including tasks of verbal, figural, and incidental memory, motor functions, attention and concentration, and information processing speed. Compared to their prefight performance, boxers demonstrated impairments in verbal and incidental memory, but enhanced executive and motor functions postfight. There were no observed differences between winners and losers on any of the measures. The results are compared to other studies that have shown only minor changes in cognitive functions in amateur boxers compared to controls. 
Headaches due to cerebrovascular disease. Subarachnoid hemorrhage causes sudden, severe headache and requires immediate medical and surgical diagnosis and treatment. A CT scan is the first choice for correct diagnosis. In order to prevent rebleeding, delays in treatment should be avoided. Intraparenchymal cerebral hemorrhage is now often recognized by means of CT scanning and sometimes is a cause of headache. Cerebellar hemorrhage commonly causes occipital headache and is an indication for immediate surgical intervention, although small cerebellar hemorrhages can be treated conservatively. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease is frequently accompanied by headache, but its etiology remains uncertain. Thrombosis of the cerebrovenous system is a less frequent cause of head pain than that of the arterial system, but it usually shows characteristic neurologic signs. Following carotid endarterectomy or superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass surgery, the patient may have moderate to severe unilateral headaches, probably as a result of platelet aggregation and serotonin release. 
Enterococcal meningitis in an HIV positive haemophilic patient. A 25 year old, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seropositive, severe haemophilic patient was treated for suspected Pneumocystis carinii infection with high dose intravenous cotrimoxazole and subsequently with prednisolone. When he improved he was discharged on oral treatment only to return two days later, extremely unwell, with headaches, fever, sweats, tachycardia and hypotension. A lumbar puncture showed modest neutrophil pleocytosis but despite empirical antibiotic treatment with intravenous benzylpenicillin and cefuroxime he continued to deteriorate. Culture of cerebrospinal fluid subsequently grew Enterococcus faecalis that was resistant to trimethoprim and sensitive to ampicillin, rifampicin, and vancomycin. After a change in treatment to intravenous ampicillin and rifampicin he dramatically improved. Enterococcal meningitis is rare in adults but important to recognise and treat appropriately in view of its high mortality and relative resistance to antibiotics. In our case the combination of HIV infection and previous treatment with antibiotics or steroids, or both, were probable predisposing factors. 
By how much does dietary salt reduction lower blood pressure? III--Analysis of data from trials of salt reduction [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Apr 20;302(6782):939] OBJECTIVE--To determine whether the reduction in blood pressure achieved in trials of dietary salt reduction is quantitatively consistent with estimates derived from blood pressure and sodium intake in different populations, and, if so, to estimate the impact of reducing dietary salt on mortality from stroke and ischaemic heart disease. DESIGN--Analysis of the results of 68 crossover trials and 10 randomised controlled trials of dietary salt reduction. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Comparison of observed reductions in systolic blood pressure for each trial with predicted values calculated from between population analysis. RESULTS--In the 45 trials in which salt reduction lasted four weeks or less the observed reductions in blood pressure were less than those predicted, with the difference between observed and predicted reductions being greatest in the trials of shortest duration. In the 33 trials lasting five weeks or longer the predicted reductions in individual trials closely matched a wide range of observed reductions. This applied for all age groups and for people with both high and normal levels of blood pressure. In people aged 50-59 years a reduction in daily sodium intake of 50 mmol (about 3 g of salt), attainable by moderate dietary salt reduction would, after a few weeks, lower systolic blood pressure by an average of 5 mm Hg, and by 7 mm Hg in those with high blood pressure (170 mm Hg); diastolic blood pressure would be lowered by about half as much. It is estimated that such a reduction in salt intake by a whole Western population would reduce the incidence of stroke by 22% and of ischaemic heart disease by 16% [corrected]. CONCLUSIONS--The results from the trials support the estimates from the observational data in the accompanying two papers. The effect of universal moderate dietary salt reduction on mortality from stroke and ischaemic heart disease would be substantial--larger, indeed, than could be achieved by fully implementing recommended policy for treating high blood pressure with drugs. However, reduction also in the amount of salt added to processed foods would lower blood pressure by at least twice as much and prevent some 75,000 [corrected] deaths a year in Britain as well as much disability. 
Hypertrophic repair of canine articular cartilage in osteoarthritis after anterior cruciate ligament transection. Transection of the anterior cruciate ligament in the dog is used frequently to produce a model of osteoarthritis (OA). Although it results in metabolic, biochemical, biomechanical and morphological changes in the articular cartilage of the unstable knee which resemble those in human OA, it rarely results in full thickness cartilage loss. The lack of progression of the cartilage lesions in this model has generally been attributed to stabilization of the joint by osteophytes and capsular fibrosis which develop following transection of the ligament. In our study transection of the anterior cruciate ligament of adult foxhounds and mongrels resulted in a progressive increase in the amount of articular cartilage in the unstable knee. In articular cartilage from the medial femoral condyle of the unstable knee the total amount of proteoglycan, as assessed by hexuronic acid analysis, and, often, the proteoglycan concentration were increased. Furthermore, the rate of proteoglycan synthesis was commonly elevated, in comparison with that from the contralateral knee. Thus, in these animals knee instability did not lead to loss of cartilage but to an active synthetic response by the chondrocytes resulting in hypertrophic cartilage repair which was sustained for up to 64 weeks of observation. 
Hydrogen peroxide as a mediator of dopac-induced effects on melanoma cells. Dopac increases tyrosinase activity and exerts cytotoxic effects in cultures of human melanoma cells. The possible role of hydrogen peroxide in these actions was examined. Catalase (100 micrograms/ml) completely reversed the cytotoxic action of 0.3 mM dopac and reduced its tyrosinase-stimulating effect by approximately one half. The results show that extracellular hydrogen peroxide is a mediator of both the tyrosinase-stimulating and cytotoxic actions of dopac. Analysis of the degradation products of melanin from dopac-treated melanoma cells after hydriodic acid (HI) hydrolysis revealed the presence of aminohydroxy-phenylacetic acid (AHPAc). This substance is obtained by HI hydrolysis of melanin formed by oxidation of cysteinyl-dopac. Thus, the presence of AHPAc indicates that dopac is transported into the melanocytes where it serves as a substrate for tyrosinase. 
Angiotensin II causes vascular hypertrophy in part by a non-pressor mechanism. Angiotensin II, when given in low doses, raises blood pressure slowly. When tested in vitro on vascular smooth muscle cells, it has mitogenic and trophic effects; it is not known if it has these effects in vivo. Our purpose was to determine whether vascular hypertrophy develops during slow pressor infusion of angiotensin II and, if so, whether it is pressure induced. Three experiments were done in rats infused subcutaneously with angiotensin II (200 ng/kg/min) by minipump for 10-12 days. Experiment 1: Angiotensin II gradually raised systolic blood pressure (measured in the tail) from 143 +/- 2 to 208 +/- 8 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM), significantly suppressing plasma renin and increasing threefold (NS) plasma angiotensin II. There was no loss of peptide in the pump infusate when tested at the end of the experiment. Experiment 2: In the perfused mesenteric circulation, vasoconstrictor responses to norepinephrine, vasopressin, and KCl were enhanced in rats given a slow pressor infusion of angiotensin II, but sensitivity of responses was not altered. This combination of changes suggests that vascular hypertrophy develops during slow pressor infusion of angiotensin II. Experiment 3: Vessel myography was done after angiotensin II infusion with and without a pressor response. Angiotensin II raised systolic blood pressure, increased heart weight, and produced myographic changes of vascular hypertrophy in the mesenteric circulation, increasing media width, media cross-sectional area, and media/lumen ratio. Hydralazine given with angiotensin II prevented the rise of pressure and the cardiac effect but not the vascular changes. Two-way analysis of variance showed that angiotensin II significantly increased media width, media cross-sectional area, and media/lumen ratio, all independent of hydralazine. Thus, although hydralazine inhibits the pressor and cardiac effects of angiotensin II, suggesting a pressor mechanism for the cardiac change, it does not inhibit structural vascular change, which suggests that at least part of the effect has a non-pressor mechanism. 
Incidence of aneurysms in Takayasu's arteritis. The angiographic findings of Takayasu's arteritis in a series of 113 patients were reviewed. Predominant findings were stenotic or occlusive changes, but fusiform or saccular aneurysms were also found in 36 patients (31.9%) in the various sites of aorta and its major branches. Multiple aneurysms were found in 15 patients. The most common site of aneurysms was the ascending aorta (16 patients); in 7 of the patients these were complicated by aortic regurgitation. Aneurysms developed in the aortic arch in 3 patients, in the descending aorta in 11, in the abdominal aorta in 7, and in the major branches of the aortic arch in 9 patients. In 2 patients, follow-up angiograms showed enlargement of the aneurysms, and rupture of the aneurysm occurred in 1 patient. Aneurysms were found even in young patients. A fifteen-year-old female showed a huge aneurysm in the ascending aorta as the initial manifestation of this disease. Thickening of the walls of aneurysms was common and characteristic. This study revealed the moderately high incidence of aneurysms of various sites of arteries in patients with Takayasu's arteritis. The authors conclude that aneurysm, as well as occlusive changes, can be a primary lesion. 
Clinical doxorubicin chemomyectomy. An experimental treatment for benign essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm. Doxorubicin (DXR) was injected as a treatment for benign essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm. The other eyelids were treated concurrently with botulinum toxin (BT). No DXR-treated eyelid has maintained 0 strength (commonly achieved with BT). Two patients with benign essential blepharospasm and four patients with hemifacial spasm have achieved major improvement, sustained for more than 6 months. Eyelids have been swollen and inflamed for up to 3 months. No spontaneously irreversible complication has occurred. A single injection at the maximum safe dose (1 mg in the upper lid and 1.5 mg in the lower lid) has not proven sufficient to produce cure. Treatment of each lower eyelid of a muscular male with severe blepharospasm may require cumulative doses of up to 4.0 mg, delivered in three injection events separated by at least 2 months, with each injection no greater than 1.5 mg DXR per site. At the present time, there is no assurance that a permanent cure will result. 
Assessment of proliferative potential in gliomatosis cerebri. The proliferative potential of neoplastic cells in two cases of gliomatosis cerebri was investigated by a combined staining technique, a one-step silver colloid method for nucleolar organizer region-associated protein (AgNOR) and immunohistochemistry for fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The neoplastic cells in the two cases had an abnormal shape and showed positive GFAP immunostaining in their cytoplasm. The numbers of AgNORs were counted in central and peripheral lesions of the neoplastic field in each case. The mean AgNOR scores in neoplastic cells were almost the same as those of nonneoplastic astrocytes in both the central and the peripheral lesions. These values were almost equal to the AgNOR score of low-grade gliomas. These findings indicate that gliomatosis cerebri has an invasive character in the central nervous system and often shows a malignant tendency, but its proliferative potential is significantly lower than that of high-grade gliomas. 
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome of the lower limbs in renal transplant patients treated with cyclosporin A. In a 36-month period, 240 patients at our institution received kidney transplants from cadaver donors. Cyclosporin A (CsA) was used as the initial immunosuppressive therapy. Seven patients (5 men and 2 women) developed severe pain, periarticular soft tissue swelling with no effusion, and vasomotor changes in affected areas. Although articular mobility was conserved, most of the patients had great difficulty in walking. A patchy osteoporotic pattern was seen radiographically and increased uptake of 99mtechnetium with a periarticular distribution in the clinically affected areas were found. All of these symptoms and radiographic and scintigraphic signs are compatible with definite reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (RSDS). Articular symptoms began within 3 months after kidney transplantation in all patients; all but 1 patient had plasma CsA levels greater than 200 ng/ml at that time. When the dosage of CsA was reduced, there was concomitant improvement in the RSDS, which appeared when the plasma CsA levels declined to less than 200 ng/ml. The mean duration of the clinical symptoms of RSDS was 8 months. We believe RSDS should be added to the list of complications that may appear in kidney transplant patients who receive CsA treatment. 
Human papillomavirus DNA sequences in cell lines derived from head and neck squamous cell carcinomas. There is increasing evidence that human papillomaviruses (HPV) have a casual role in some neoplasms in human beings. As examples, DNA of HPV types 16, 18, and 31 are frequently present in genital cancers in humans. Recently, oncogenic HPV types have also been identified in neoplasms of the head and neck, including verrucous carcinoma of the larynx, squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity and larynx, and inverted papillomas of the nose. These findings and our resource of an extensive panel of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cell lines led us to begin to investigate how frequently HPV DNA was present in these tumor cell lines. For initial analysis, twenty-two HNSCC cell lines derived from 20 patients' tumors were selected as representative of our tumor cell line panel with respect to diversity of primary site, tumor stage, patient age, sex, and clinical course. For Southern analysis, cell line DNA was tested for hybridization with DNA probes for HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, and 31. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis was also performed on five tumor cell lines using types 6, 11, 16, 18, and 52 as probes. Southern blot analysis revealed HPV-specific signals in two of the 22 HNSCC cell lines tested. One of these, UM-SCC-23, was HPV 31 positive, which to our knowledge is the first identification of HPV 31 in HNSCC. UM-SCC-63, the other HPV-positive tumor identified by Southern analysis, hybridized with both type 18 and 31. Of the five tumor cell lines tested with PCR, two were HPV positive. 
Assessment of coronary artery patency after thrombolytic therapy: accurate prediction utilizing the combined analysis of three noninvasive markers. The predictability of patency of the infarct-related artery assessed by means of three noninvasive easily obtainable markers was prospectively examined in 82 patients undergoing thrombolysis for their first myocardial infarction. Positive noninvasive markers were defined as follows: 1) early peak creatine kinase (CK) activity less than or equal to 12 h after the start of thrombolysis; 2) greater than or equal to 50% reduction in ST segment elevation; and 3) occurrence of reperfusion arrhythmias within the 1st 90 min of thrombolytic therapy. In 63 (77%) of the 82 patients, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) grade II/III reperfusion was achieved within the 1st 90 min as assessed by coronary angiography. Separate analysis of each marker revealed the following respective values for sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative predictive value regarding prediction of coronary artery patency: CK peak less than or equal to 12 h: 84%, 95%, 98% and 64%; reduction of the ST segment elevation greater than or equal to 50%: 60%, 95%, 97% and 42%; and reperfusion arrhythmias: 63%, 89%, 95% and 43%. The combined analysis of all three markers utilizing a logistic regression procedure showed that CK peak (p = 0.0001) and resolution of the ST segment elevation (p = 0.005), but not the occurrence of reperfusion arrhythmias (p = 0.26), were independent predictors of vessel patency. From this logistic regression procedure, a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 90%, a positive predictive value of 97% and a negative predictive value of 100% for prediction of coronary artery patency were obtained. 
Hypercholesterolemia in diabetes and glucose intolerance in the U.S. population. The prevalence of hypercholesterolemia, according to the guidelines of the National Cholesterol Education Program, has been determined in a national survey of diabetes and glucose intolerance. Rates of elevated total cholesterol in people with diabetes in the United States are only slightly greater than in those without diabetes after adjusting for age and sex. Nevertheless, high or borderline high total cholesterol is common in diabetes and is present in 70% of adults with diagnosed diabetes and 77% with undiagnosed diabetes in the U.S. population. Of these individuals, 95% have evidence of coronary heart disease or two or more risk factors for heart disease and should therefore have their low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol measured. Based on our national data, LDL cholesterol levels warranting dietary treatment for hypercholesterolemia would be expected in 85% of these people. Although elevated LDL cholesterol is uncommon in people with diabetes who have total cholesterol of less than 200 mg/dl, other risk factors for coronary heart disease are very frequent (100% of men, 73% of women), and low total and LDL cholesterol may mask low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Therefore, investigation of blood lipid levels and coronary heart disease risk factors should be routine in all patients with diabetes, and treatment strategies should include management of lipid disorders and the multiple other risk factors for coronary heart disease that are highly prevalent in these patients. 
Breast sonography. Sonographic equipment for breast imaging has continued to improve, and the role of breast sonography has evolved to that of an indispensable adjunct to mammography. Breast sonography is not useful for screening for breast cancer in any age group. Its main use is for the differentiation of cystic vs solid palpable and mammographically visible masses. If strict sonographic criteria are used for a simple cyst, the diagnostic accuracy approaches 100%. Sonographic diagnosis of a simple cyst precludes the need for further workup, including aspiration, biopsy, or followup. This article emphasizes the technical aspects of breast sonography, especially those factors that alter the diagnostic information on the images. These factors can be especially problematic in differentiating cysts and solid masses, the most common diagnostic use of breast sonography. Selection of equipment depends largely on the requirements of a specific practice. Optimally, the sonographic equipment is located close to where mammography is performed, and the sonographic and mammographic findings are interpreted together. 
Electrocardiographic correlates with left ventricular morphology in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The purpose of the present study was to verify whether the electrocardiographic pattern of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) might be useful in predicting measurements of left ventricular (LV) morphology. A total of 12 electrocardiographic criteria for LV enlargement were evaluated in 67 patients with IDC, aged 14 to 68 years (mean 48), and were correlated to LV wall thickness, volume and mass, as assessed at angiography (all patients) and echocardiography (50 patients). Linear regression analysis showed weak correlations between multiple electrocardiographic criteria and LV wall thickness, volume and mass. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that total 12-lead QRS amplitude, voltage criteria of Sokolow and Lyon, overshoot and U-wave inversion were the variables significantly related to LV wall thickness, as assessed by angiography (r = 0.55, p less than 0.005) and echocardiography (r = 0.43, p less than 0.025). The sum of T/R-wave ratios, the RV6/RV5 ratio and the Romhilt-Estes score were predictors of LV end-diastolic volume, as determined by angiography (r = 0.83, p less than 0.001) and echocardiography (r = 0.77, p less than 0.005). Total 12-lead QRS amplitude and the sum of T/R-wave ratios were the only independent predictors of LV mass, either angiographically (r = 0.81, p less than 0.001) or echocardiographically measured (r = 0.71, p less than 0.025). It is concluded that a single electrocardiographic criterion for prediction of LV morphology in patients with IDC is barely effective. Multiple electrocardiographic criteria should be utilized to better predict LV mass and distinguish reliably between LV wall thickening and dilatation. 
Prevention of cold-induced increase in blood pressure of rats by captopril. To assess the possibility that the renin-angiotensin system may play a role in the development of cold-induced hypertension, three groups of rats were used. Two groups were exposed to cold (5 +/- 2 degrees C) while the remaining group was kept at 26 +/- 2 degrees C. One group of cold-treated rats received food into which captopril (0.06% by weight) had been thoroughly mixed. The remaining two groups received the same food but without captopril. Systolic blood pressure of the untreated, cold-exposed group increased significantly above that of the warm-adapted, control group within 4 weeks of exposure to cold. In contrast, chronic treatment with captopril prevented the elevation of blood pressure. Rats were killed after 4 months of exposure to cold. At death, the heart, kidneys, adrenal glands, and interscapular brown fat pad were removed and weighed. Although captopril prevented the elevation of blood pressure in cold-treated rats, it did not prevent hypertrophy of the kidneys, heart, and interstitial brown adipose tissue that characteristically accompanies exposure to cold. Thus, chronic treatment with captopril prevented the elevation of blood pressure when administered at the time exposure to cold was initiated. It also reduced the elevated blood pressure of cold-treated rats when administered after blood pressure became elevated. This suggests that the renin-angiotensin system may play a role in the elevation of blood pressure during exposure to cold. 
Detection of T-cell receptor gamma chain V gene rearrangements using the polymerase chain reaction: application to the study of clonal disease cells in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. This report describes the development and characterization of a method for the amplification of rearranged V-J segments of the human T-cell receptor gamma chain (TCRG) locus using an adaptation of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. The technique uses a single pair of 'consensus' primers to amplify rearrangements involving the V gamma I subgroup genes, which are common in malignant cells from acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients. Using this method we were able to detect rearrangements in the TCRG locus in disease cells from patients with T-cell ALL (12 of 12), common ALL (10 of 14), and Null cell ALL (2 of 2) at presentation. Monoallelic and biallelic rearrangements involving V gamma I subgroup genes were identified by restriction analysis of PCR products from DNA samples from a T-cell leukemic cell line, T-cell clones, and disease cells from patients with ALL of T-and B-cell lineage at presentation. These results confirmed the presence of cell clones within the presentation samples and, in one case, confirmed the persistence of the original malignant cell clone at relapse. This is a rapid and specific method for the detection and characterization of rearrangements of the TCRG locus without recourse to Southern blotting. Therefore, the PCR technique described herein can provide the basis for the study of clonal evolution and minimal residual disease on a high proportion of patients with ALL. 
Histopathological changes in leiomyomata treated with leuprolide acetate. Several studies have shown a decrease in uterine and/or leiomyoma volume when treated with leuprolide acetate (LA), a widely used gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist. The mechanism by which these changes occur is unknown. In this study, the histopathological slides of 31 women of reproductive age who underwent hysterectomy or myomectomy were blindly reviewed by a pathologist. Seventeen women underwent myomectomy. Among those, 10 were treated with LA. The tumors in all of these patients were reduced in size after therapy. Histopathologically, the LA treatment correlated with a significant reduction in cellularity. No significant change in fibrosis, edema, or mitotic activity was seen. 
A checklist for managing the dementia patient. Primary care physicians seeing a growing number of elderly demented patients must consider a number of problem areas when treating such patients. This article offers the mnemonic FICS'M (Family, Intellectual status, Continence, Sleep, and Mobility) to help physicians address treatable problems associated with dementing illnesses. Strategies are offered to minimize morbidity from the particular problem and from the treatment, such as trying "low toxicity" therapies and medications with few side effects. Other medical, ethical, and legal issues are discussed, including handling dangerous behaviors and abuse, nursing home placement and autopsy, and specific treatment of both the dementia itself and associated disorders--agitation, depression, and delirium. 
Wild-type and e antigen-minus hepatitis B viruses and course of chronic hepatitis. Using an oligonucleotide hybridization assay, we studied the clinical implication of wild-type hepatitis B virus (HBV) and a HBV mutant that is unable to secrete hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) because of a translational defect due to a stop codon in the pre-C region in 106 hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients with chronic hepatitis B. Wild-type HBV was detected in 31 of 42 (73.8%) HBeAg-positive patients, whereas a mixed viral population was present in 10 (23.8%). Significant differences in the severity and outcome of liver disease were not observed in the two groups of patients. However, the emergence of HBeAg-minus HBV in wild-type HBV carriers was associated with an exacerbation of liver disease and was followed by the presence of antibodies against HBeAg (anti-HBe) in serum in 50% of the cases. In 61 of 64 (95.3%) anti-HBe-positive patients, HBeAg-minus HBV was the predominant virus: HBeAg-minus HBV was detected in 42 patients (65.6%), whereas both wild-type and HBeAg-minus HBV were present in 19 (29.7%). HBeAg-minus HBV was associated with a course of hepatitis characterized by flare-ups of liver cell necrosis interspersed with periods of asymptomatic HBV carriage (P less than 0.01). These data support the hypothesis that genetic heterogeneity of HBV significantly influences the course and outcome of chronic hepatitis B. Wild-type HBV secreting HBeAg induces immunologic tolerance and causes chronic infection. HBeAg-minus HBV might be unable to induce chronic infection without the helper function of wild-type HBV, but it appears to be more pathogenic. Once chronic infection is established, HBeAg-minus HBV variants may prevail and displace wild-type virus. 
Aspirin in transient ischemic attacks and minor stroke: a meta-analysis. An overview analysis of seven randomized controlled trials testing the effectiveness of aspirin in the treatment of patients with transient ischemic attacks and minor strokes was performed. A total of 6409 patients from the seven trials was entered in the analysis; 2182 patients received only aspirin; 1598 patients received an aspirin-combination regimen with either sulfinpyrazone or dipyridamole; and 2629 subjects received a placebo. Aspirin alone produced an 18% decrease in all strokes and cardiovascular deaths. The pooling of studies examining aspirin-combination regimens and the larger grouping of studies of aspirin and aspirin-combination regimens led to more striking results. Indeed, significant risk reductions were observed for three of the four outcomes, namely, total deaths, total strokes, and total strokes and cardiovascular deaths, with odds ratios ranging from 0.59 to 0.78. Suggestive, albeit more modest, results were obtained when examining the impact of these regimens on total cardiovascular mortality. The same tendencies have also been observed in three previously published meta-analyses. 
Combined (team) approach to hemangioma management: arteriography with superselective embolization plus YAG laser/sapphire-tip resection. Thirteen patients have been treated over a 2-year period utilizing a team approach between the radiology and surgical services. Initial diagnostic evaluation is directed at determining the size and anatomic extent of the hemangioma; clinical assessment of coagulation and hemodynamic status is also performed. Arteriography with superselective embolization precedes the surgical procedure, usually by 24 hours. The YAG laser with contact sapphire-tip scalpels is then utilized for resection and reconstruction of the hemangioma. Total removal of hemangioma was achieved in 9 of 13 patients, and partial or subtotal removal was achieved in the remainder. Blood loss and complications were minimal. 
Induction of inflammatory arthropathy resembling rheumatoid arthritis in mice transgenic for HTLV-I. Human T cell leukemia virus type-I (HTLV-I) is the etiologic agent of adult T cell leukemia and has also been suggested to be involved in other diseases such as chronic arthritis or myelopathy. To elucidate pathological roles of the virus in disease, transgenic mice were produced that carry the HTLV-I genome. At 2 to 3 months of age, many of the mice developed chronic arthritis resembling rheumatoid arthritis. Synovial and periarticular inflammation with articular erosion caused by invasion of granulation tissues were marked. These observations suggest a possibility that HTLV-I is one of the etiologic agents of chronic arthritis in humans. 
MRI following severe perinatal asphyxia: preliminary experience. In 30 children suffering from severe perinatal asphyxia an attempt was made to determine the early prognostic signs of severe hypoxic-ischemic brain injury with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Ten early (1-4 days of age), 16 intermediate (2-4 weeks of age), and 38 late MRI (older than 1 month of age) procedures were performed on a 2.35 T MR-system. Severe cerebral necrosis was suspected by T2 hyperintensity of the white matter, with blurred limits to the cortex in early MRI, and was confirmed by T1 hyperintensity of the cortex in intermediate MRI. Severe cerebral necrosis was established at 3 months of age. Of the 11 children with this pattern (group A), 8 had severe and 3 had moderate cerebral palsy on subsequent examination. Thirteen children (group B) had normal late MRI scans; none developed severe cerebral palsy or marked mental retardation. Two children (group C) had focal ischemic lesions. Four children had intracranial hemorrhage (group D). Groups A and B did not differ in the severity of their perinatal histories and findings, suggesting that MRI during the first 3 months is of significant prognostic value. 
Papular dermatitis in adults: subacute prurigo, American style? Determining the best treatment for recurrent pruritic papular eruptions that do not fit well into a diagnosis (of either atopy or some other diagnosis) is sometimes frustrating. We have studied 12 patients with recurrent pruritic papular eruptions by obtaining extensive histories and by performing skin biopsies, immunofluorescence studies, and screening patch tests. The eruptions in this group are not atopic by strict criteria but have atopic features and are without a determinable exogenous cause. Histologic features resemble papular urticaria, but there is no history to suggest arthropod bites. Patients with this type of eruption have features similar to those with subacute prurigo, and they respond to variable combinations of topical or systemic corticosteroids, systemic antihistamines, and UVB or UVA. We suggest that the designation of subacute prurigo might be more appropriate for patients with these findings. 
Complications after intravesical instillation of bacillus Calmette-Guerin: rhabdomyolysis and metastatic infection. Two cases of adverse reaction to bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) bladder instillations are reported. In both cases transient fevers and systemic symptoms developed following the instillations. After an additional instillation 1 patient had high fevers, severe myalgias and profound weakness followed by rhabdomyolysis and anuric renal failure, which required 3 weeks of hemodialysis before recovery. Extensive evaluation revealed no cause other than the BCG instillations. In the other patient a firm subcutaneous nodule gradually developed on the chest wall, which contained nonviable acid fast bacilli. 
Symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following tumor resection: report of two cases. The authors report two cases of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following resection of an acoustic neuroma and a left sphenoid wing meningioma. Vascular spasm was documented by transcranial Doppler and angiography studies. Both patients responded to hypervolemic therapy. Possible mechanisms contributing to this rare complication are discussed. 
Metastatic melanoma to the heart presenting with ventricular tachycardia. Intraventricular tumors in adults are uncommon, and the association of these with ventricular tachycardia is even more rare. We report a case of an intracardiac metastatic melanoma in a woman who presented with syncope due to ventricular tachycardia. 
Prostate specific antigen: a critical assessment of the most useful tumor marker for adenocarcinoma of the prostate. PSA is a kallikrein-like, serine protease that is produced exclusively by the epithelial cells of all types of prostatic tissue, benign and malignant. Physiologically, it is present in the seminal fluid at high concentration and functions to cleave the high molecular weight protein responsible for the seminal coagulum into smaller polypeptides. This action results in liquefaction of the coagulum. PSA is also present in the serum and can be measured reliably by either a monoclonal immunoradiometric assay or a polyclonal radioimmunoassay. The calculated half-life of serum PSA ranges from 2.2 to 3.2 days and the metabolic clearance rate of this tumor marker follows first-order kinetics. Digital rectal examination, cystoscopic examination and prostate biopsy all can cause spurious elevations of the serum PSA concentration. Conditions such as bacterial prostatitis and acute urinary retention also can falsely elevate the serum PSA level. Because approximately 25% of the patients with BPH only will have an elevated serum PSA concentration and BPH tissue contributes to this PSA value in a variable manner from patient to patient, it is unlikely that PSA by itself will become an effective screening tool for the early diagnosis of prostate cancer. However, if combined with digital rectal examination and/or transrectal ultrasound it may become a vital part of any early detection program. Prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia also may be associated with moderately elevated serum PSA levels. Although there is a direct correlation between the serum PSA concentration and clinical stage, PSA is not sufficiently reliable to determine the clinical stage on an individual basis. This finding also applies to pathological stage. As a result, the preoperative serum PSA concentration cannot be used to decide whether to recommend radical prostatectomy for potential cure. Low preoperative serum PSA concentrations in patients with previously untreated prostate cancers are predictive of a negative bone scan. Thus, in these select patients a staging bone scintigram may not be necessary. With respect to monitoring patients after definitive therapy, PSA is an exquisitely sensitive tumor marker. Irrespective of the treatment modality (radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy or antiandrogen treatment), PSA reflects accurately the tumor status of the patient and is prognostic of eventual outcome; this tumor marker is capable of predicting tumor recurrence months before its detection by any other method. PSA is also a most useful immunocytochemical marker. Its sensitivity and specificity to identify tissue of prostatic origin approach 100%. When compared to PAP, PSA is a more precise and meaningful marker in all clinical situations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The adrenocortical response to brain injury: correlation with the severity of neurologic dysfunction, effects of intoxication, and patient outcome. To test the hypothesis that cortisol levels reflect the extent of neurologic dysfunction and predict patient outcome, neurologic function and cortisol levels were determined in 120 traumatically brain injured patients who never received glucocorticoid treatment. Their mean age was 29 years and 78% were men. The impact of intoxication was examined in 59 patients who had ethanol levels measured. Ethanol was detectable in 40 patients and greater than or equal to 100 mg/dl in 31. There were significant correlations between the extent of neurologic dysfunction, determined by the Glasgow Coma Score and plasma cortisol concentrations 1 and 4 days postaccident. Cortisol levels were universally elevated on admission and approached normal 7 days later. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed significant effects of circulating ethanol levels on the association between cortisol concentrations and progressively worsening neurologic function, i.e., ethanol reduced the magnitude of the cortisol elevations in a dose dependent manner, abolishing this relationship at levels above 100 mg/dl. Analysis of the relationships between circulating cortisol levels and patient outcome provided a second method for ascertaining the association between injury severity and the magnitude of adrenocortical activation. Admission and day 1 cortisol concentrations were 25 to 40% lower in patients having good recoveries or moderate disabilities than those who remained severely disabled, persistently vegetative or died; serum cortisol values of less than 20 micrograms/dl one day after the accident were more likely to be associated with a good outcome than a poor one (55 vs. 25%, p less than 0.001). The worsening prognosis of patients having higher cortisol values is further reflected in the duration of acute hospitalization of these individuals. 
Syndrome X and hyperventilation. The cardiorespiratory responses to exercise and forced hyperventilation were measured in 17 unselected patients with syndrome X (angina, positive exercise test, normal coronary arteriogram, no other cardiovascular disease) and compared with those in 15 healthy subjects. Forced hyperventilation produced hypocapnia and metabolic alkalosis but no chest pain or electrocardiographic change. Patients with syndrome X showed reduced maximum oxygen consumption with an increased respiratory exchange ratio at peak exercise, confirming that exercise was limited by skeletal muscle perfusion--and thus that the increase in cardiac output with exercise is limited in syndrome X as in heart failure. Arterial carbon dioxide tension (PCO2) homoeostasis during exercise was normal but the ventilatory cost of carbon dioxide excretion was increased in syndrome X (as in heart failure). End tidal PCO2 measurements correlated only poorly with arterial PCO2 in individual patients with syndrome X, providing a possible explanation for previous reports, based on end tidal PCO2 of inappropriate hyperventilation. Patients with syndrome X did not show inappropriate hyperventilation but they did show hyperventilation that was appropriate to maintain normal arterial PCO2 in the face of reduced cardiac reserve. 
Fulminant pulmonary aspergillus infection occluding the aortic arch after high-dose antileukemic chemotherapy. After antileukemic chemotherapy a granulocytopenic patient experienced a rapidly progressive left-sided pneumonia with pleuritic pain. After 1 week, a sudden occlusion of all aortic branches was followed by death. At postmortem, a huge thrombus in the aortic arch caused by Aspergillus invasion from the left lung was found. 
Mid-brain pathology of Wilson's disease: MRI analysis of three cases. MRI scans were obtained from three patients with Wilson's disease, all of whom showed rigidity and dysarthria; two also showed tremor and dystonia. Two had been treated with D-penicillamine for seven and 14 years, respectively and their neurological abnormalities had improved, but the third patient had not been treated. T2-weighted MRI of the mid-brain in all three revealed the characteristic "face of the giant panda" sign, consisting of high signal intensity in the tegmentum except for red nucleus, preservation of signal intensity of the lateral portion of the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra and hypo-intensity of the superior colliculus. The clinical significance of these MRI abnormalities is discussed. 
Sickle cell disease and aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. While neurological complications are common in sickle cell disease, aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage has been rarely reported. A case is presented of a young man with sickle cell disease and subarachnoid hemorrhage found to have two mid-basilar aneurysms, the largest of which had bled. Available literature suggests that this patient may be quite representative as nearly one half of documented cases have been noted to harbor multiple aneurysms, and posterior circulation involvement appears to be common. These anatomic features may relate to the pathophysiology of arterial destruction common in sickle cell disease. 
Severe congestive heart failure. How successful are drug and transplant therapies? Severe congestive heart failure is a fatal illness. Aggressive use of proven medical regimens, including vasodilators and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may prolong survival time for some patients. Those with refractory symptoms and seriously reduced left ventricular function, impaired exercise capacity, and complex or frequent ventricular arrhythmias should be considered for cardiac transplantation. Candidacy for transplantation is based on the absence of other illnesses that would limit survival or diminish the likelihood of success of the transplant. With the introduction of potent immunosuppressive agents, particularly cyclosporine (Sandimmune), survival rates after transplantation have improved to 90% at 1 year. Major problems include organ rejection, serious infection, development of coronary artery disease in the transplanted heart, and the limited donor organ supply. 
Air in the temporomandibular joint fossa: CT sign of temporal bone fracture. Temporal bone fractures can be difficult to detect clinically and radiographically. Air is sometimes present in the glenoid fossa of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) at computed tomography (CT) of acute basilar skull fractures. This study evaluated TMJ fossa air as a sign of temporal bone fracture. Initial CT scans of the head in 114 patients with a diagnosis of basilar skull fracture at discharge were retrospectively reviewed. TMJ fossa air was present in 23 of 114 patients (20.2%) and was bilateral in three patients. Only temporal bone fractures were significantly (P less than .001) associated with TMJ fossa air. Temporal bone fractures were observed at CT in 23 of 26 cases of TMJ fossa air, but in three of 26 cases, TMJ fossa air was the only CT sign of clinically apparent temporal bone fractures. TMJ fossa air is associated with acute temporal bone fracture and may be the only CT sign of an otherwise inconspicuous temporal bone fracture. 
Regulation of c-myc expression by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in human leukemia cells. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) stimulates both the proliferation and functional properties of normal and leukemic myeloid cells via cell surface receptors. The postreceptor mechanisms for these two actions, and the extent to which they represent overlapping biochemical pathways, have not been fully clarified. We have examined the actions of GM-CSF on the expression of c-myc, an early response oncogene associated with the proliferative stimulus of growth factors. GM-CSF reduced the population doubling time of HL-60 leukemia cells from 32 hours to 25 hours, and, at concentrations that were correlated with mitogenicity, induced a rapid twofold increase in the level of c-myc mRNA. Nuclear runoff studies indicated that GM-CSF approximately doubled the transcription rate of c-myc by reversing the transcription attenuation that occurs at the exon 1-intron 1 junction. GM-CSF had no effect on the half-life of c-myc messenger RNA. The biochemical basis for the modulation of c-myc expression by GM-CSF was explored. GM-CSF treatment caused intracellular alkalinization of the cells as measured using the fluorescent probe 2', 7-bis (2-carboxyethyl)-5(and-6) carboxyfluorescein (BCECF). The sodium channel blocker amiloride prevented the GM-CSF-induced change in pH, but did not affect the stimulation of c-myc transcription by GM-CSF. Agents that increase cellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels (prostaglandin E2 and cholera toxin) blocked the actions of GM-CSF on c-myc; however, these agents also reduced the basal level of c-myc expression. GM-CSF caused a rapid (5 minutes) and transient decline in cellular cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels, and a slower (30 minutes) and transient decrease in cellular cAMP levels. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the declines in cAMP and cGMP are associated with a stimulation of HL-60 proliferation, while previously reported manipulations that elevate cyclic nucleotides are related to an inhibition of HL-60 proliferation and the potentiation of differentiation. 
Normalization of left ventricular mass and associated changes in neurohormones and atrial natriuretic peptide after 1 year of sustained nifedipine therapy for severe hypertension. Sixteen patients with severe hypertension were treated for 1 year with extended release nifedipine, during which time serial changes in left ventricular mass index and associated alterations in left ventricular systolic function, left ventricular filling, plasma renin activity, atrial natriuretic peptide and catecholamines were evaluated. Mean seated blood pressure (+/- SE) was significantly reduced from 200 +/- 8/122 +/- 3 to 144 +/- 5/89 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than 0.0001) at 1 year. After 6 months, left ventricular mass index was significantly reduced by 19% from 121 +/- 8 to 96 +/- 7 g/m2 and this reduction was sustained at 1 year. Septal and posterior wall thickness were reduced from 13.4 +/- 0.1 to 11.2 +/- 0.04 mm and from 12.8 +/- 0.1 to 10.0 +/- 0.03 mm (p less than 0.001), respectively. The prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy decreased from 63% to 25%. Left ventricular fractional shortening increased from 34 +/- 2% to 41 +/- 3% (p less than 0.05) and the relation between fractional shortening and end-systolic stress did not change. Over the year of sustained blood pressure reduction, the peak velocity of early filling increased from 57 +/- 3 to 63 +/- 4 cm/s (p = 0.07), peak velocity of late filling did not change and the ratio of late to early peak left ventricular filling velocity significantly decreased (p less than 0.05). Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide levels, markedly elevated at entry, decreased from 70 +/- 15 to 41 +/- 8 pg/ml at 1 year (p less than 0.05). Plasma renin activity and catecholamine levels were not altered. 
Muir-Torre syndrome associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency and cutaneous vasculitis. Report of a case with exacerbation of a cutaneous neoplasm during immunosuppressive therapy. We describe a patient with both Muir-Torre syndrome and alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. A keratoacanthoma developed after immunosuppressive therapy for necrotizing vasculitis. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of Muir-Torre syndrome associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. 
Cardiac function after hepatic ischemia-anoxia and reperfusion injury: a new experimental model. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: During liver transplantation, reperfusion of the donor liver and in the clinical setting, end-stage liver disease, have occasionally resulted in profound cardiovascular disturbances. The etiology of hepatic injury-induced myocardial dysfunction is still unclear. In this study, the aims were to develop an experimental model that would facilitate the study of the effects of hepatic failure on myocardial function and to determine whether hepatic ischemia or anoxia and reperfusion injury of similar duration would result in the same degree of hepatic failure. Seventy male Sprague-Dawley rats were used as organ donors. Three simultaneous liver-heart perfusions (corresponding to three groups) were established using a modified Krebs-Henseleit buffer with 2% bovine albumin, membrane oxygenation, and a peristaltic pump. Group 1 (n = 10) and group 2 (n = 15) experiments consisted of liver-heart perfusions after 90 mins of normothermic hepatic ischemia or 90 mins of hepatic anoxia, respectively, followed by reoxygenation and 60 mins of reperfusion. Group 3 (n = 8) experiments consisted of sham liver-heart perfusions studied over the same experimental time period (60 mins). Myocardial function variables, liver function tests, arterial blood gases, and electrolytes were measured at baseline and at 3-, 10-, 30-, and 60-min intervals during reperfusion in all experiments. RESULTS: Ischemia or anoxia-induced hepatic failure resulted in a similar degree of hepatic dysfunction. Both forms of acute hepatic failure caused significant increases in liver function tests, a reduction in heart rate (p less than .05), coronary flow (p less than .05), and an increase in calculated coronary vascular resistance (p less than .05). There were no changes in buffer pH, CO2, or ionized calcium that could explain the coronary vasoconstriction. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatic dysfunction induced by ischemia or anoxia of similar duration results in a similar hepatic metabolic profile during reperfusion and can cause direct myocardial dysfunction of the isolated perfused rat heart. 
Surgically treated cavernous angiomas of the brain stem: report of two cases and review of the literature. Two cases of surgically treated brain stem cavernous angiomas are presented. The previously reported cases are reviewed and the clinical features, radiographic appearance, and treatment of this condition are discussed. Symptomatic brain stem cavernous angiomas should be treated surgically and can be removed with good outcomes. 
Colchicine and antineoplastic therapy for the prevention of restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventions. The complexity of the events that culminate in intimal proliferation after arterial injury and similarities between this response and benign neoplasia suggest that conventional medical therapies will continue to be unsuccessful in preventing recurrent stenosis after percutaneous coronary revascularization. By preventing cell division after smooth muscle cell activation, antimitogenic therapy may inhibit the final common pathway in this complex chain of events and offset the apparent loss of local growth control. Colchicine, which causes metaphase arrest of cell division, has been shown in experimental studies to decrease the extent of atheromatous plaque formation and reduce the severity of arterial restenosis after balloon angioplasty. However, preliminary results from a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial suggest that low dose colchicine (0.6 mg twice a day orally) does not prevent restenosis. The use of more potent antineoplastic agents is limited by the potential for life-threatening side effects. It is possible that these adverse effects can be averted by using novel drug delivery systems to administer antimitogenic therapy locally at the site of arterial injury or by using low dose synergistic combinations of antiproliferative agents. This review examines the potential role of antimitogenic therapy in the prevention of restenosis after coronary interventions and considers the possibility of an overlap of the therapeutic realms of interventional cardiology and medical oncology. 
Symptomatic retinoschisis-detachment involving the macula. We treated three patients (four eyes) in whom posteriorly situated retinoschisis-detachments became symptomatic because of elevation of a limited area of full-thickness retina at the macula adjacent to these lesions. Laser photocoagulation alone was successful in achieving long-term macular reattachment in one eye but failed in both eyes of a bilaterally affected patient. In this patient, retinal cryopexy, external drainage of subretinal and retinoschisis cavity fluid, and intravitreal air injection attained long-term macular reattachment and retinoschisis cavity collapse in both eyes. In the third patient, cryopexy, drainage of subretinal and retinoschisis cavity fluid, and scleral buckling failed to reattach the retina. Subsequent laser photocoagulation induced reabsorption of subretinal fluid but without retinoschisis cavity collapse. Alternative management strategies for these unusual cases include retinal cryopexy alone and vitrectomy techniques. 
Self-inflicted eye injuries. Five cases of self-inflicted eye injury are described and discussed. A review of the literature shows that several psychiatric diagnoses have been assigned to people who damage their eyes. A variety of mechanisms to explain this phenomenon are described. 
Skin pretreatment and the use of transdermal clonidine. Although therapy with transdermal clonidine is effective in bringing elevated blood pressure under control, this mode of delivery has been associated with localized dermal reactions in a small percentage of patients. Because anecdotal information suggests that a number of physicians have resorted to various dermal pretreatment strategies in an effort to alleviate or eliminate these dermal reactions, we decided to investigate the two most commonly used pretreatment strategies, to determine if they affected the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of transdermally administered clonidine. Specifically, we examined the effect of dermal pretreatment with 0.5% hydrocortisone cream and with an over-the-counter antacid, magnesium-aluminum hydroxide suspension, on the pharmacokinetics of transdermal clonidine in 10 adult hypertensive males. Patients were randomized to receive one of the two pretreatment regimens or therapy with the patch alone, and after 7 days of treatment and a 14-day washout period, patients were crossed over to receive one of the other therapies. All patients ultimately received all three therapies. We present here the results from the 10 patients enrolled in our study. Our study found a statistical difference detected in maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), steady-state plasma concentration (Css), and apparent clonidine dose delivered (Doseapp) following dermal pretreatment with hydrocortisone compared with the transdermal patch alone. The mean +/- SD relative extents of absorption (Frel) of clonidine following dermal pretreatment with hydrocortisone and magnesium-aluminum hydroxide in respect to the transdermal patch alone were 94.84 +/- 45.69% and 97.65 +/- 59.65%, respectively. No significant difference was detected in this parameter. Supine and sitting blood pressures and pulse rates were similar during treatment with clonidine alone, following dermal pretreatment with hydrocortisone cream, and following pretreatment with magnesium-aluminum hydroxide suspension. In addition, systemic side effects were evenly distributed among treatments. However, dermal side effects were less frequent following pretreatment with hydrocortisone compared with magnesium-aluminum hydroxide and the patch alone. The results of this study suggest that dermal pretreatment with 0.5 percent hydrocortisone cream may significantly alter the plasma concentrations of transdermally administered clonidine without adversely altering the pharmacodynamics. 
Use of the optical urethrotome knife in the treatment of a benign low rectal anastomotic stricture. Several methods of treatment for benign anastomotic strictures following anterior resection have been described. Surgical intervention in terms of re-exploration and excision of the stricture or the formation of a permanent colostomy will be accompanied by substantial morbidity. The dilatation of these strictures without direct vision may not be safe. We describe a simple method of treating benign rectal anastomotic stricture using an optical urethrotome knife under direct vision. This technique affords an accurate incision of the stricture to increase the size of the lumen, thereby relieving obstruction. 
A balanced carbohydrate: protein diet in the management of Parkinson's disease. Although restricting dietary protein is a proposed adjunct to treating Parkinson's disease (PD), the effect of carbohydrate consumption is unknown. We measured plasma levodopa and large neutral amino acid (LNAA) levels in nine PD patients treated with carbidopa/levodopa and different isocaloric meals containing high protein-low carbohydrate, low protein-high carbohydrate, and balanced 5:1 carbohydrate:protein mixtures. We found that levodopa levels increased significantly regardless of the type of diet, but that plasma LNAA levels varied less and motor performance was superior after the balanced diet than after the other two meals. We conclude that PD patients can consume nutritionally adequate meals and still maintain a stable plasma levodopa:LNAA ratio. 
Prevention of an air embolism by moderate hypoventilation during surgery in the sitting position. The effect of ventilation (normo-, hypo-, and hyperventilation) on transverse sinus pressure (TSP), central venous pressure (CVP), mean arterial blood pressure (mABP), and heart rate was studied in 15 patients undergoing neurosurgical treatment in the sitting position for tumors of the posterior fossa, and the findings were compared with the influence of positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) on these parameters. TSP was not influenced significantly by PEEP ranging from 0 to 15 mbar, whereas CVP increased. At the same time, mABP decreased slightly. In contrast, TSP showed characteristic changes with varying ventilation: during normoventilation [end expiratory CO2 pressure (PECO2), 38 mm Hg], TSP was 3 mm Hg and increased to 7 mm Hg on average with hypoventilation (PECO2, 44 mm Hg), whereas hyperventilation (PECO2, 32 mm Hg) caused a reduction in TSP to the atmospheric range. At the same time, CVP remained unchanged, whereas mABP increased with hypoventilation. Presuming that the risk of venous air embolism is closely related to the level of TSP, our results allow the following conclusions. 1) PEEP does not seem to be effective in preventing venous air embolism. 2) Hyperventilation is dangerous in the sitting position, as TSP is reduced to the atmospheric and even subatmospheric range. 3) To prevent air embolism, moderate hypoventilation is recommended during the most critical period of exposing the posterior fossa followed by normoventilation when surgery of the actual lesion has begun. 
Antiphospholipid antibodies in cerebral ischemia. In a 2-year prospective study of 146 patients with cerebral ischemia, we compared vascular risk factors for stroke with clinical and laboratory findings, particularly antiphospholipid antibodies. Ten patients (6.8%) were positive for at least one antiphospholipid antibody; one patient had systemic lupus erythematosus, one had rheumatoid arthritis, and the remaining eight fulfilled criteria for the diagnosis of primary antiphospholipid syndrome. These patients were predominantly male, not necessarily young, and 50% of them did not have any other vascular risk factors; there were no significant clinical or paraclinical differences between these patients and those without antiphospholipid antibodies. Outcome in the 10 patients was good, and platelet antiaggregating drugs proved to be useful in preventing further cerebrovascular ischemic events in our patients. 
Clinical significance of pericardial rub with regional ventricular dilatation. To elucidate the clinical characteristics associated with regional ventricular dilatation in the early phase of myocardial infarction (MI), 228 patients with acute Q-wave anterior MI were studied. Forty-nine patients (21 percent) had echocardiographically demonstrated regional ventricular dilatation (an abnormal bulge in the left ventricular contour during both systole and diastole) on the third hospital day. Careful auscultation revealed that a pericardial rub was present in 49 patients (21 patients with and 28 patients without regional ventricular dilatation) during the first three days after hospital admission. Multivariate analysis was performed to determine the relative importance of pericardial rub with six other clinical variables related to regional ventricular dilatation. Pericardial rub and cardiac output were the significant factors related to the presence of regional ventricular dilatation. Thus, a pericardial rub, in concert with impaired left ventricular function, is a physical sign associated with regional ventricular dilatation, and anatomically transmural infarction is the possible factor explaining their association. 
Long-time survival of a patient with glioblastoma and Turcot's syndrome. Case report. A rare case of Turcot's syndrome is reported in a long-time survivor of glioblastoma multiforme. The patient was treated for his tumor in 1976 with macroscopically complete surgical resection and radiotherapy consisting of 60 Gy to the tumor bed and 40 Gy to the whole brain. Five years later, in 1981, he developed adenocarcinoma of the colon Dukes Stage B which was successfully treated at another hospital by surgery alone. In 1990, he presented with multiple colon polyps and adenocarcinoma Dukes Stage A. For more than 15 years, the patient has been afflicted with cystic and conglobate acne. Possible mechanisms and treatment with 13-cis retinoic acid are discussed. 
Effects of isradipine on platelet function in hypertension at rest and during exercise. The effects of eight weeks of treatment with isradipine (1.25 mg twice daily for four weeks, followed by 2.5 mg twice daily for four weeks) on ex vivo platelet function were investigated in ten male patients with hypertension. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures, platelet aggregation in response to adenosine diphosphate (ADP), serum thromboxane B2, and beta-thromboglobulin levels were significantly decreased (P less than .05) at rest before exercise ergometry, during exercise, and at rest after exercise. The platelet count and plasma levels of 6-oxo-prostaglandin F1 alpha (PGF1 alpha) were not affected by isradipine. It is concluded that treatment of hypertension with a compound that lowers blood pressure and inhibits platelet activation may be of clinical benefit when routinely applied in hypertensive patients. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide response to cardioversion of atrial flutter and fibrillation and role of associated heart failure. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) concentrations were measured before and 1 hour after cardioversion in 40 patients (27 with atrial flutter and 13 with atrial fibrillation) admitted for elective cardioversion. Fourteen (11 with atrial flutter and 3 with atrial fibrillation) had clinical evidence of congestive heart failure (CHF). Conversion to sinus rhythm was successful in 39 patients. The mean ANP concentration in the entire group decreased after cardioversion from 38 +/- 4 to 17 +/- 2 pmol/liter (p less than 0.001). In the subgroup with CHF, the ANP level, which was not significantly higher than that in the group without CHF, decreased from 47 +/- 8 to 19 +/- 3 pmol/liter (p less than 0.01). Neither mode of cardioversion (spontaneous 1, pharmacologic 2 and direct-current countershock 36) nor associated CHF influenced ANP response to cardioversion. One patient with atrial flutter and "failed cardioversion" had unchanged ANP level. The decrease after cardioversion in ANP concentration correlated with its control level (r = 0.88, p less than 0.001) but not with the decrease in heart rate. The ANP level in patients with atrial fibrillation was 45 +/- 9 vs 38 +/- 5 pmol/liter in those with atrial flutter (difference not significant). Arrhythmia duration, left atrial size, and ventricular rate or arterial blood pressure did not correlate with ANP concentration in any subgroup. It is concluded that (1) the ANP level is elevated comparably in patients with both atrial flutter and fibrillation regardless of the presence or absence of CHF; and (2) the level decreases, independent of the mode of cardioversion or presence of CHF, promptly after successful cardioversion. 
Urinary retention--an unusual dystonic reaction to continuous metoclopramide infusion. Vomiting is one of the most distressing adverse effects of cancer chemotherapy. Metoclopramide by continuous infusion (400 micrograms/kg/h after a loading dose of 2.5 mg/kg) is a novel administration method for optimizing efficacy. A two-year-old boy developed urinary retention on three occasions, once accompanied by priapism and slurred speech, while receiving a continuous infusion. This was reversed by procyclidine, suggesting that it may have been a dystonic reaction. 
Transforming growth factors beta 1 and alpha in chronic liver disease. Effects of interferon alfa therapy BACKGROUND. Cirrhosis is a diffuse process of hepatic fibrosis and regenerative nodule formation of unknown pathogenesis. Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta 1 induces the production of extracellular matrix proteins by liver cells and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis in laboratory animals. TGF alpha is a hepatocyte mitogen that participates in liver regeneration. METHODS. Using Northern blot analysis, we studied the expression of TGF beta 1 messenger RNA (mRNA) in liver specimens from 42 patients with chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis and 12 subjects with either normal or fatty livers. The results were correlated with measurements of procollagen Type I mRNA in liver tissue, procollagen Type III peptide in serum, and the degree of histologic injury. We also investigated whether TGF alpha mRNA would be detectable in biopsy specimens of livers with proliferative activity. RESULTS. TGF beta 1 mRNA expression correlated closely with the expression of procollagen Type I mRNA (r = 0.94) and serum procollagen Type III peptide (r = 0.89) and with the histologic activity index (r = 0.73). All patients with increased fibrogenic activity (serum procollagen Type III peptide level, greater than 11.9 micrograms per liter) had increased levels of TGF beta 1 mRNA (2 to 14 times the levels in the control group or in patients with normal fibrogenic activity), and both TGF alpha and H3 histone (a marker of DNA synthesis) mRNAs were detectable in patients with regenerative nodules. Six of eight patients with hepatitis C treated with interferon alfa for one year had sustained clinical responses with normalization of serum procollagen Type III peptide and aminotransferase activity. All these patients had normal levels of TGF beta 1 mRNA in liver specimens obtained at the end of the year. CONCLUSIONS. TGF beta 1 may have an important role in the pathogenesis of fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease, and TGF alpha expression may be associated with liver regeneration in these patients. 
Immunohistochemical characterization, distribution, and ultrastructure of lymphocytes bearing T-cell receptor gamma/delta in inflammatory bowel disease. Phenotypic characterization and distribution of gamma/delta T lymphocytes in the intestinal mucosa were investigated in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease by immunohistochemistry. The ratio of delta(+) cells to CD3(+) cells in the intraepithelial space of colon was decreased in Crohn's disease (13%) and strikingly decreased in ulcerative colitis (8%) compared with the control (36%). Delta(+) cells in the lamina propria were also decreased, particularly in the distal ileum of Crohn's disease (4%), compared with the control (15%). On the contrary, the cells gathered at the severe inflammatory sites with other inflammatory cells, including beta(+) cells, and were densely distributed in the T-cell zone around lymphoid follicles. Phenotypic characterization showed that delta(+) lamina proprial lymphocytes of colon were mainly CD4(-)CD8(-) in the control (80%) and Crohn's disease (59%). However, in ulcerative colitis, CD4(-)CD8(-) delta(+) lymphocytes were rarely found (3%). This reflects the difference of immunologic background between the two diseases. Immunoelectron microscopically, these cells in inflammatory bowel disease were rich with vesicular structures in cytoplasms, whereas those in the control group contained electron-opaque granules. The decrease and the morphological change may be closely related to the weakness of mucosal defense. 
Haemodynamic considerations in the management of patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral vasospasm occurs, following subarachnoid haemorrhage, in the majority of patients and is accompanied by cerebral ischaemia in 30%. The objectives of this article are to review (1) the effects of subarachnoid haemorrhage and vasospasm on cerebral blood flow (CBF); (2) the effects of induced hypotension and hypocapnia on CBF in these patients; (3) current therapy for cerebral ischaemia from vasospasm. The medical literature was searched using Index Medicus; for the period 1983-90 this search was done on a computer with the CD-ROM version of Index Medicus, Silver Platter. Papers were selected on the basis of validity and applicability to clinical practice; animal studies are included when human data is lacking. Cerebral vasospasm may decrease cerebral blood flow, disturb autoregulation and place the patient at risk for delayed cerebral ischaemia. Intraoperative induced hypotension and hypocapnia can decrease CBF further, although effects of either on outcome have not been evaluated. Calcium antagonists are effective for both the prevention and the treatment of delayed cerebral ischaemia. Of the mechanical treatments, systemic-arterial hypertension has the firmest scientific foundation, although this is frequently combined with haemodilution and blood volume expansion. There is a need for randomized clinical trials to assess the efficacy of these latter treatments. 
Caffeine clearance by enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique: a simple, inexpensive, and useful indicator of liver function. The clinical value and sensitivity of serum caffeine clearance measurement has been evaluated as an indicator of hepatic disease. After a 17 hour caffeine exclusion period, 300 mg of caffeine citrate was administered orally to the study subjects. Serum samples were taken four and 16 hours later. Serum caffeine concentrations were measured using an enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique (EMIT) and a clearance value derived. Conventional liver function tests were measured at the same time. A total of 103 subjects attending the medical unit in a district general hospital were studied. Twenty one had alcoholic liver disease, 11 non-alcoholic cirrhosis, nine non-cirrhotic liver disease, 21 suspected liver disease, six hepatic tumours, and 35 were hospital and normal control subjects. Caffeine clearance values were lowest in subjects with alcoholic liver disease (median 0.19 ml/min/kg, range 0.04-0.61 ml/min/kg) and significantly reduced in all subjects with liver disease (median 0.32 ml/min/kg, range 0.04-2.68 ml/min/kg) compared with control subjects (median 1.27 ml/min/kg, p less than 0.001). In subjects with suspected liver disease subsequently shown to have another explanation for abnormal liver function test results, caffeine clearance values were normal (median 1.31 ml/min/kg, range 0.23-2.64 ml/min/kg) and significantly different, p less than 0.001, from those of subjects with liver disease. Serum albumen values were not different for these latter two groups. Using a cut off value of 0.86 ml/min/kg, caffeine clearance measurement was 100% sensitive for alcoholic liver disease and 89% sensitive for all liver disease. The respective sensitivities for conventional liver function test measurement were 76% and 83%. In the suspected liver disease group, caffeine clearance was abnormal in only 24%, conventional liver function tests were abnormal in 95%. 
Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma of the lung and congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation. A case of bronchioloalveolar carcinoma of the lung is described in a 19-year-old man who had had a lobectomy in infancy, for removal of a congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation. It is suggested that congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation may predispose a patient to development of epithelial malignancies of the lung, whereas mesenchymal hamartomas usually are associated with nonepithelial neoplasms. 
Expression of perforin in infiltrating cells in murine hearts with acute myocarditis caused by coxsackievirus B3. BACKGROUND. Cell-mediated autoimmunity has been strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of viral myocarditis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using a murine model of acute myocarditis caused by coxsackievirus B3, we analyzed the phenotypes and morphology of the infiltrating cells in the hearts by immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. We also examined the expression of a cytolytic factor, perforin, in the infiltrating cells by immunoperoxidase and in situ hybridization. We found that the dominant population of the infiltrating cells were asialo GM1 positive, were negative for T-cell markers, and had electron-dense cytoplasmic granules, which is consistent with a morphology of large granular lymphocytes. Perforin was found in the cytoplasmic granules of the infiltrating cells expressing perforin messenger RNA. These findings provide for the first time the direct evidence that the first wave of cell infiltration in hearts mainly consists of killer cells and strongly suggests that perforin plays, in part, an important role in myocardial cell damage involved in acute viral myocarditis. T-helper cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes made up the second wave of cell infiltration. CONCLUSIONS. As we previously reported, the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I antigen on cardiac myocytes induced by the infiltrating cells, such as killer cells, may facilitate the interaction between cardiac myocytes and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and may lead to further myocardial cell damage in a later phase. 
Macroscopic vasovasostomy re-examined. Results of 273 consecutive macroscopic vasovasostomy procedures performed at a single institution over a nine-year period between 1978 and 1987 were reviewed. When patients operated on less than five years after vasectomy were compared with those in whom more than five years had elapsed since vasectomy, significant declines in technical success rates as measured by return of sperm to the ejaculate (93% vs. 74%, p less than 0.004), biologic recovery as measured by mean sperm counts (55 million vs. 35 million) and mean progressive sperm motility (30% vs. 13%), and clinical success as measured by pregnancy rates (52% vs. 30%, p less than 0.02), were observed. Examination of complications of vasovasostomy showed a 7.7 percent overall complication rate and a 1.5 percent incidence of major complications. 
Radiologic evaluation of the normal and diseased posterior cervical space. The posterior cervical space seen on cross-sectional imaging of the neck constitutes most of the posterior triangle seen on clinical examination. Although triangular anatomy relates best to the surface perspective of the clinician, a spatial approach to anatomy works better for the radiologist viewing axial images. The posterior cervical space is defined as the area in the posterolateral portion of the neck from the skull base to the clavicles deep to the sternomastoid and trapezius muscles but superficial to the prevertebral space. Its principal contents are fat, the spinal accessory nerve, and lymph nodes. We analyzed CT and MR images and clinical records of 63 patients known or suspected to have disease of the posterior cervical space to determine the imaging features that mark a lesion as originating in the posterior cervical space and the spectrum of diseases that arise there. Of the 63 patients in the study, four had clinical pseudomasses, nine had congenital lesions, 10 had inflammatory disease, six had benign tumors, and 34 had malignant tumors. A typical mass lesion of the posterior cervical space was centered within the fat of the space, between the deep and superficial layers of the deep cervical fascia. Characteristic displacements caused by a mass in the posterior cervical space included anteromedial displacement of the carotid space and posteromedial displacement of the prevertebral space. Our study shows that the differential diagnosis of lesions of the posterior cervical space reflects the normal contents of the space, and that diagnosis can thereby be predicted from knowledge of the normal anatomy and contents of the space. 
Adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channels in anoxia. Potassium channels that are activated by decreasing adenosine trisphosphate levels are blocked by sulfonylurea drugs such as glibenclamide but are opened by diazoxide and some endogenous peptides. Judging from the effects of such drugs, it seems that in the hippocampus, these channels are present not on cell bodies but rather on glutamate-releasing nerve terminals (especially those of mossy fibers in the CA3 region). Because activation of these presynaptic potassium channels reduces anoxic glutamate release, they may be a useful target for specific drug therapy that might prevent the excitoxic effects of excessive glutamate release during anoxia/ischemia. 
Sexual function of women taking antihypertensive agents: a comparative study. OBJECTIVE: To develop a method to evaluate the effects of clonidine and prazosin on sexual function in hypertensive women. DESIGN: Crossover, active-drug controlled pilot study. SETTING: Community recruitment to a university-based teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Ten premenopausal and eight postmenopausal women with mild hypertension and unimpaired sexual function. INTERVENTION: Periodic, self-administered daily diaries assessed the sexual arousal and desire and orgasmic function of women receiving placebo, clonidine, and prazosin. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Using analysis of variance for orgasmic characteristics and comparison of the percentages of yes responses to the sexual function questions, no significant difference in the levels of sexual function of women receiving placebo, clonidine, and prazosin was found. However, there was a suggestion that clonidine and prazosin affected some aspects of sexual function. Of the women who received clonidine first, fewer were receptive to partner approach during medication therapy (49%) than during placebo (61%). Fewer women wished for their partners to approach them (WISH) during therapy (41% and 53% for clonidine and prazosin, respectively) than during placebo (60%). In the group that received prazosin first, WISH was affected (32% for prazosin, 31% for clonidine, 45% for placebo). Orgasmic strength increased from 2.1 on placebo to 2.7 on clonidine (second medication), measured on a four-point Likert scale. CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study developed a method using self-administered daily diaries for evaluating the effects of antihypertensive agents on sexual function in hypertensive women. These potential effects need to be evaluated in larger studies. 
A review of 13-years experience of osteosarcoma. Since the inception of the authors' facility, 365 patients with osteogenic sarcoma have been treated. While other facilities were surgically treating patients with primary amputation, this facility attempted limb-salvage surgery. The majority of patients being treated with limb-salvage surgery had the resected bone replaced by a metallic endoprosthetic replacement. The emphasis on conservative surgery led to the development of growing endoprosthetic replacements with the first being used in 1975. The cumulative survival of those patients with Stage 2 osteosarcoma treated at this facility between 1977 and 1984 is 48% at five years. 
Sucralfate versus cimetidine in the treatment of reflux esophagitis, with special reference to the esophageal motor function. Sixty patients entered a double-blind clinical trial comparing the effect of 1 g of sucralfate granulate given four times daily and cimetidine, 400 mg twice daily. Twenty-six patients treated with sucralfate and 26 treated with cimetidine were examined with short-term pH monitoring before and after 12 weeks of treatment. Thirty patients, 19 treated with cimetidine and 11 treated with sucralfate, had esophageal motility studied by a radionuclide test before and after 12 weeks of treatment. The efficacy of the treatments was judged by symptoms and endoscopic response after 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment. The endpoint healing rate was approximately 60% in both groups and symptoms were relieved in half of the patients in both groups (difference not significant). The effect of the treatments on pH and number of spikes reflected the different pharmacodynamic profiles of the drugs, whereas the mean transit time (MTT) was not changed by the treatments. The residual activity after radionuclide transit in the sitting position was significantly increased after treatment with cimetidine. The data support the hypothesis that primary dysmotility might be involved in the pathogenesis of reflux esophagitis in about 33% of the patients. Possibilities for a combination therapy with sucralfate and cimetidine are stressed. 
Nifedipine reduces the incidence of myocardial infarction and transient ischemia in patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting. A randomized study was performed on 104 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting to examine whether the infusion of nifedipine (n = 53) reduces the incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia and necrosis in the early postoperative period. Continuous hemodynamic and three-channel Holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours and serial assessment of serum enzymes and 12-lead electrocardiography were performed for 36 hours postoperatively. Nifedipine (minimum dose, 10 micrograms/kg/hr for 24 hours) was applied from the onset of extracorporal circulation. The control group (n = 51) received nitroglycerin (minimum dose, 1 micrograms/kg/min for 24 hours). Using the combined analyses of electrocardiography and Holter recordings, myocardial ischemia was defined as being either a transient ischemic event (TIE), transient coronary spasm (TCS), or myocardial infarction (MI). The two groups did not differ with respect to preoperative New York Heart Association classification, age, history of myocardial infarction, extracorporal circulation and aortic cross-clamp time, number of distal anastomoses, or systemic and pulmonary hemodynamics. The incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia was substantially lower in the nifedipine than in the nitroglycerin group [TIE: three of 53 patients (6%) versus nine of 50 patients (18%), p less than 0.001; MI: two of 53 patients (4%) versus six of 50 patients (12%), p less than 0.001; and TCS: none of 53 patients (0%) versus two of 50 patients (4%), p = NS]. 
The plain abdominal film accurately estimates extent of active ulcerative colitis. The aim of our study was to establish whether plain abdominal film can accurately assess the extent of active ulcerative colitis. Ninety-seven ulcerative colitis patients were studied, in whom the extent of the macroscopic lesion was established either by colonoscopy (n = 75) or by resection (n = 22). Of these, 42 had proctosigmoiditis, 12 left-sided colitis, 12 subtotal colitis, and 31 total colitis. Nine well-tested features were used for the radiological classification of lesion extent. The radiologists were not given any clinical information. Seventy-eight patients (80.4%) were correctly classified by plain abdominal film (r = 0.86); the best concordance was achieved for proctosigmoiditis and total colitis (80.9 and 90.3%, respectively). In total colitis the most reliable radiological features were "irregularity of the mucosal edge" and "increased thickness of the colon wall, " which were present in 74.2 and 67.7%, respectively, of the correctly classified patients. The fourfold combination of these two features with "loss of haustral clefts" and "empty right colon" was present only in patients with total colitis, and at least one of these features was present in all but one of them. Conversely, all nine abnormalities were absent in 73.8% of patients with proctosigmoiditis. In conclusion, plain abdominal film is a reliable tool for judging the extent of lesion in active ulcerative colitis. It seems particularly accurate in total colitis, where, in the acute phases, it is most important to avoid invasive examinations. 
Phencyclidine increased release of beta-endorphin from anterior lobe of the pituitary. Phencyclidine (PCP) has been found to affect neuroendocrine function by altering the release of the anterior pituitary hormones, adrenocorticotrophin, luteinizing hormone and prolactin. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of PCP on release of the two pituitary hormones also derived from the adrenocorticotropin precursor, namely, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and beta-endorphin (beta-E), synthesized in the neurointermediate and anterior lobes of the pituitary. At behaviorally active doses, PCP administered i.c.v. increased plasma levels of immunoreactive beta-E (i beta-E) without affecting the concentration of immunoreactive alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, suggesting that PCP increased the release of beta-E from only the anterior lobe of the pituitary. Dexamethasone pretreatment blocked the PCP-induced increase in i beta-E which indicated further the anterior lobe effects of PCP. MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate), a selective PCP ligand, at behaviorally active doses also increased the plasma concentration of i beta-E. The dose-response curves for induction of behavior was very different from that for increasing the concentration of i beta-E in plasma. The increase in release of i beta-E was stereoselective as (+)-(1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3 methylpiperidine but not (-)-(1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3 methylpiperidine increased release of i beta-E. The increase in plasma levels of beta-E was not due to an interaction with opioid receptors because naloxone did not block PCP-induced release of beta-E. In vitro, PCP also significantly increased release of i beta-E from anterior lobe of the pituitary. 
A phase II trial of intraperitoneal cisplatin and etoposide as salvage treatment for minimal residual ovarian carcinoma. We conducted a phase II study of intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin (CDDP) and etoposide (VP-16) as salvage therapy in patients with ovarian cancer who had persistent disease or who had relapsed after primary systemic chemotherapy and had residual disease of less than 2 cm. Two hundred eleven courses of IP chemotherapy consisting of CDDP 200 mg/m2 and VP-16 350 mg/m2 were administered. All patients received intravenous (IV) thiosulfate protection. Treatment was given once every 4 weeks for a median of six cycles. Twenty-four of 37 assessable patients were clinically free of disease at the end of treatment (normal physical exam, computed tomographic [CT] scan, CA-125 and peritoneal cytology); one patient had a partial response. Ten of these 24 patients consented to reexploration at the end of treatment, and nine were in pathologic complete remission, while one patient had positive peritoneal washings as her only evidence of persistent disease. The median survival of the 37 patients was 26 months from the first day of IP treatment and 51 months from diagnosis. The major toxicity was myelosuppression, with median nadir WBC, granulocyte, and platelet counts of 2,400, 684, and 134,000/mm3, respectively. There was no cumulative renal damage, hypomagnesemia, or chemical peritonitis. We conclude that IP CDDP and VP-16 can produce pathologic complete remissions when used as a second-line regimen for patients with ovarian cancer who have received systemic cisplatin-based therapy and have less than 2 cm disease. 
Cancer control following anatomical radical prostatectomy: an interim report. Cancer control following anatomical radical prostatectomy was evaluated in 586 men who were followed for 1 1/2 to 8 years (median followup 4 years, 166 men followed 5 years or longer). The 5-year actuarial rate was 4% for local recurrence alone, 5% for distant metastases alone, 2% for distant metastases in association with local recurrence and 3% for death of or with disease, while 10% of the men had elevated levels of prostate specific antigen without local recurrence or distant metastases. When the actuarial status at 5 years was evaluated by clinical stage there was local recurrence alone in 0% of men with a clinical stage A1 or B1 nodule, and 4% with stage B1, 7% with stage A2 and 8% with stage B2 disease. When evaluated by pathological stage at 5 years local recurrence alone was noted in 2% of men with organ-confined disease, 8% with specimen-confined disease and 8% in whom the disease involved the surgical margin, seminal vesicles or pelvic lymph nodes. Recognizing that two-thirds to three-quarters of all local recurrences occur within the first 5 years, these data suggest that the anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy is associated with local control rates that are equal to or greater than other series reported in the literature. However, without a randomized study it is impossible to compare one clinical series to another, and followup evaluations at 10 and 15 years will be necessary to confirm these findings. 
Noncardiac chest pain in patients with heart disease. This is a retrospective study of cardiac patients with noncardiac chest pain referred for evaluation of esophageal motility. Sixty-eight patients with heart disease were compared with 210 patients without heart disease according to findings from symptom questionnaires and a psychologic test (Brief Symptom Inventory). More than 70% of each group qualified for an anxiety or depressive diagnosis on the symptom questionnaire. These diagnoses were supported by significant elevations of scores on the anxiety and depression scales of the Brief Symptom Inventory. Male gender and a diagnosis of panic disorder occurred significantly more often in the patients with heart disease. "Stress" was cited as the cause of illness in about half the sample, but this led to less than satisfactory rates of psychiatric evaluation or pharmacotherapy. This is of particular concern for the cardiac patients because of the known adverse effect of anxiety and depression in those with heart disease. 
Predominant expression of lambda light chain in adult cases with non-T-cell acute lymphocytic and chronic myelogenous leukemia in lymphoid blast crisis. The authors investigated cytoplasmic immunoglobulins of the leukemic cells from 20 adult cases with non-T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and from three cases with chronic myelogenous leukemia in lymphoid blast crisis using immunoelectron microscopy. They also studied these cases using various monoclonal antibodies. Of the 23 examined cases, nine were negative for both heavy and light chains of immunoglobulins; the authors defined these as common ALL. Two cases were positive for the mu chain but were negative for light chains; the authors defined these as pre-B-cell ALL. The remaining 12 cases were positive for either kappa or lambda light chains; these were defined as B-cell ALL. Of the 12 cases positive for light chains, 11 were positive for the lambda chain. Seven cases of the 11 positive cases for the lambda chain were negative for heavy chains. Eleven cases were positive either for both My4 and My9 or for one of the two antibodies. From these results, the authors conclude the following: (1) the ratio of pre-B-cell ALL among non-T-cell ALL cases (two of 23 cases) was lower in adults than in children; (2) of the light chain-positive cases, the lambda light chain-positive cases predominated (11 of 12 cases); (3) heavy chain-negative, lambda chain-positive cases (seven cases) were observed; and (4) one half of the leukemia cases showed dual phenotypes of B-cell and myeloid cell lineages. 
Abnormal methylation of the calcitonin gene marks progression of chronic myelogenous leukemia. The clinical aspects of disease progression in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) are well established, but the nature of the molecular events responsible is not known. We have previously reported a consistent pattern of novel sites of methylation in the 5' region of the calcitonin (CT) gene and other chromosome 11p loci in acute myelogenous and and lymphoid leukemias. In the present study, CT gene methylation patterns were investigated in peripheral blood from 51 patients with CML. Abnormal patterns were found in only 2 of 31 patients in chronic phase, but in 5 of 8 patients in accelerated phase, and in 11 of 12 patients in blast crisis (P less than .005). For one patient studied in blast crisis, abnormal CT gene methylation was found in the peripheral blast cells but not in the granulocytes. In two of three patients studied with CML and having normal peripheral cell patterns, abnormal patterns were found in marrow blast cells. In one patient, only partial normalization of the CT gene methylation pattern was seen after chemotherapy induction of a second chronic phase and the patient relapsed 5 months later. Our findings indicate that abnormal methylation of the 5' region of the CT gene is regularly a marker of disease progression in CML which may prove clinically useful. This abnormal methylation site is part of an imbalance in DNA methylation that may play a role in the progressive genetic instability which characterizes the advancing stages of CML. 
Coronary atherosclerotic plaques with and without thrombus in ischemic heart syndromes: a morphologic, immunohistochemical, and biochemical study. We investigated incidence, severity, and distribution of coronary atherosclerosis, acute thrombosis, and plaque fissuring in ischemic heart disease (both unstable-acute syndromes and chronic ischemia) and in nonischemic controls. We also studied the structural, immunohistochemical, and biochemical profile of plaques, with and without thrombus, including morphometry, immunophenotyping of inflammatory infiltrates, cytokine presence, and ultrastructural features. Critical coronary stenosis was almost the rule in both acute and chronic ischemic series (greater than 90%) whereas it reached 50% in control subjects. Thrombosis was principally characteristic of unstable-acute ischemic syndromes (unstable angina, 32%; acute myocardial infarction, 52%; cardiac sudden death, 26%) but was also found in chronic ischemia (stable angina, 12%; ischemic cardiomyopathy, 14%) and in control subjects (4%). Plaque fissuring without thrombus occurred in low percentages in lipid-rich, severe eccentric plaques in most series. Major differences were found between pultaceous-rich versus fibrous plaques rather than between plaques with or without thrombus. Pultaceous-rich plaques were frequent in sites of critical stenosis, thrombosis, and ulceration. Inflammatory infiltrates, i.e., T cells, macrophages, and a few beta cells, mostly occurred in lipid-rich, plaques unrelated to thrombus. In adventitia, infiltrates were a common finding unrelated to any syndrome. Necrotizing cytokines such as alpha-TNF were immunohistochemically detected in macrophages, smooth muscle, and intimal cells and detected by immunoblotting in 67% of pultaceous-rich plaques, either with or without thrombus. Immune response mediators such as IL-2 were also expressed in analogous plaques but in a minor percentage (50%-40%). Media were extensively damaged in severely diseased vessels with and without thrombus. Ultrastructural study showed that the fibrous cap was either highly cellular or densely fibrillar. Intimal injury with collagen exposure was often associated with platelet adhesion, whereas foamy cell exposure was not. In conclusion, investigated parameters were essentially similar in plaques, both with and without thrombus, whereas major differences were found between pultaceous-rich and fibrous plaques. Since platelets adhere to exposed collagen and not to foam cells, the type of exposed substrates could play a major role in thrombosis. 
5-Hydroxytryptamine and the pathophysiology of migraine. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) has long been implicated in the aetiology of migraine but the evidence remains circumstantial and certainly not definitive. Numerous papers have reviewed the background which is briefly outlined here. Although the continued belief in the primary involvement of 5-HT in the genesis of a migraine attack has recently been questioned, many antimigraine drugs undeniably interact potently with 5-HT receptors. It can be argued, however, that their modest clinical benefit results from their pharmacological effects, be they mediated through 5-HT receptors or otherwise, independently of any pathophysiological involvement of endogenous 5-HT. Nevertheless, there seems convincing evidence that central release of 5-HT by various drug mechanisms causes migraine-like headache in migraineurs. It remains to be seen whether these drugs mimic the pathological event initiating the spontaneous migraine attack. Regardless of these considerations, the focus of research on 5-HT and migraine has proved to be enormously profitable over several decades, culminating recently in the identification of a novel, potentially important, antimigraine drug for the treatment of the acute attack. This drug, sumatriptan, is a selective cranial vasoconstrictor which mediates this effect by specifically activating a particular 5-HT1 receptor subtype. Undoubtedly a precise understanding of its clinical mechanism of action, which is currently being studied by a number of groups, will lead to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of migraine. Perhaps this in turn will help in finally determining whether migraine is a vascular disease and whether or not a disturbance of 5-HT is just epiphenomenal or is truly the primary initiating pathological event. 
Beta-galactosidase tablets in the treatment of lactose intolerance in pediatrics. Lactose-intolerant children manifest diminished or nonexistent intestinal lactase activity, resulting in flatulence, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. To assess the hydrolytic capability of lactase-containing tablets taken immediately before oral lactose challenge, we studied 18 children previously identified as being lactose intolerant and having no underlying organic gastrointestinal disease. Subjects had a mean (+/- SEM) age of 11.4 +/- 3.4 years; 72% were male. At time of the study, lactase-containing tablets or placebo tablets were ingested (double-blind) immediately before drinking a solution of lactose. Breath samples were obtained for hydrogen analysis at 30-minute intervals during a 2-hour period, and clinical symptoms were monitored. In lactose-intolerant patients, hydrogen production was significantly greater following placebo (maximum hydrogen excretion, approximately 60 ppm) compared with lactase-containing tablets (maximum hydrogen excretion, 7 ppm). Increased hydrogen production was associated with clinical symptoms including abdominal pain (89% of subjects following placebo ingestion), bloating (83%), diarrhea (61%), and flatulence (44%). These results indicate, therefore, that coingestion of lactose and lactase-containing tablets significantly reduces both breath hydrogen excretion and clinical symptoms associated with lactose intolerance. 
Absorbable rings for pediatric valvuloplasty. Preliminary study. Secondary valvular stenosis is a significant risk of annular ring implantation during valvular repair in children. To avoid this problem, we have developed an absorbable prosthetic ring (APR), which induces the generation of a biologic fibroelastic ring with mitotic capability and thereby allows atrioventricular annulus growth with age. Twelve polydioxanone (PDS) biodegradable APRs were surgically implanted in immature goats. To avoid possible embolic complications from ring fragments during the absorption period, APRs were covered with an extensible sewing sheath of high-porosity polyester, allowing contact between the PDS, blood, and endocardium. Four APRs were implanted into the right atrial cavity, four in the tricuspid position, and four in the mitral position. Histological studies at 6 months showed a considerable amount of remaining PDS. At 1 year, only small residual fragments of PDS were present, surrounded by collagen and elastic fibers as well as fibroblasts with mitotic activity. This histological structure represents a new biologic fibroelastic ring, which has originated from PDS rings. Echocardiography at 12 months showed that the elasticity of APRs and fibrotic tissue allows normal systolic and diastolic valve motions. These findings, which demonstrate histological changes in native valve annuli as well as stable and elastic annuloplasty without secondary stenosis in growing animals, call for new studies involving hearts with valvular disease. 
Improvement in oxygen tensions and pulmonary blood flow with intermittent distal aortic compression during normoxia, hypoxic hypoxia, and hyperoxia in neonatal piglets. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: We investigated the hypothesis that, in a newborn piglet during normoxia, hypoxia, and hyperoxia, increasing aortic pressure transiently by intermittent short-duration aortic compression would affect left-to-right shunting of blood and thus increase pulmonary artery blood flow, pulmonary arterial PO2, and aortic PO2 proximal to the point of compression. We also investigated whether a balloon atrial septostomy, by providing an open channel for communication between the right- and left-sided circulations, would further improve pulmonary blood flow and aortic PO2. Studies were performed in eight 7- to 10-day-old newborn piglets in three phases (FIO2 of 0.21, 0.12, and 1.0) before and after balloon arterial septostomy in each piglet. Blood gas measurements and hemodynamic variables were recorded before and at the end of a 30-sec period of aortic compression. RESULTS: During aortic compression, all the animals demonstrated a 50 to 70 mm Hg increase in aortic pressure proximal to the compression. Before balloon septostomy, there were 21%, 41%, and 8% increases in aortic PO2 in the room air, hypoxic, and hyperoxic phases of the experiment, respectively. There were also statistically significant increments in pulmonary blood flow and arterial pressures. After balloon septostomy, there were 35%, 25%, and 21% increments in aortic PO2 during the room air, hypoxic, and hyperoxic phases of the experiment, respectively. However, there was no statistically significant further improvement in the effects of aortic compression on PO2 with septostomy compared with those effects before septostomy. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that increasing systemic arterial pressures in order to forcibly affect left-to-right shunting of blood may be potentially beneficial in the management of hypoxia in situations where low pulmonary artery blood flow may be contributing to hypoxia, e.g., in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. 
Pathophysiology of ischaemia reperfusion injury: central role of the neutrophil. Ischaemia is a common clinical event leading to local and remote injury. Evidence indicates that tissue damage is largely caused by activated neutrophils which accumulate when the tissue is reperfused. If the area of ischaemic tissue is large, neutrophils also sequester in the lungs, inducing non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema. Ischaemia reperfusion injury is initiated by production of reactive oxygen species which initially appear responsible for the generation of chemotactic activity for neutrophils. Later, once adherent to endothelium, neutrophils mediate damage by secretion of additional reactive oxygen species as well as proteolytic enzymes, in particular elastase. Therapeutic options for limiting ischaemia reperfusion injury include inhibition of oxygen radical formation, pharmacological prevention of neutrophil activation and chemotaxis, and also the use of monoclonal antibodies which prevent neutrophil-endothelial adhesion, a prerequisite for injury. 
Hemostatic wrapping of ruptured liver in two postpartum patients. A variety of surgical techniques with variable success rates have been reported in the management of the spontaneously ruptured liver in pregnancy. We managed two cases of postpartum ruptured liver by wrapping the liver in hemostatic material. Hemostatic encapsulation effectively controlled massive bleeding of ruptured livers in two postpartum patients. 
Dopamine beta-hydroxylase deficiency. A genetic disorder of cardiovascular regulation. Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) deficiency is a genetic disorder in which affected patients cannot synthesize norepinephrine, epinephrine, and octopamine in either the central nervous system or the peripheral autonomic neurons. Dopamine acts as a false neurotransmitter in their noradrenergic neurons. Neonates with DBH deficiency have had episodic hypothermia, hypoglycemia, and hypotension, but survivors sometimes cope relatively well until late childhood when overwhelming orthostatic hypotension profoundly limits their activities. The hypotension may be so severe that clonic seizures supervene. Most currently recognized patients are young or middle-aged adults. The diagnosis is established by the observation of severe orthostatic hypotension in a patient whose plasma norepinephrine/dopamine ratio is much less than one. 
High-intensity focused ultrasound in the treatment of experimental liver cancer. High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) was used to treat Morris rat hepatoma 3924A implanted in the liver. Treatment was administered with a lens-focused 4-MHz transducer that created a focused beam of 550 W/cm2 at peak intensity. One hundred twelve rats with liver tumors were divided into two groups of 56 each. Group 1 received HIFU therapy while group 2 (the control group) did not. All rats were killed immediately or 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, or 28 days after treatment. Eight rats in each group were killed at each interval for pathologic and biochemical studies. Significant inhibition of the tumor growth was seen in the HIFU-treated group, with tumor growth inhibition rates of 65.4% to 93.1% from the third to the 28th day after treatment. Ultrasound-treated tumors showed direct thermal cytotoxic necrosis and fibrosis. An additional 56 ACl rats with liver tumors were divided into four groups of 14 each. Group 1 received doxorubicin hydrochloride intraperitoneally and HIFU therapy; group 2, HIFU therapy; group 3, doxorubicin hydrochloride; and group 4 (the control group), neither HIFU nor doxorubicin hydrochloride. Significantly improved survival rates were noted in HIFU-treated animals (groups 1 and 2) compared with those of groups 3 and 4. These data suggest that HIFU may be a useful method for local treatment of hepatic tumors. 
Role of surgery in multimodality therapy for gastrointestinal lymphoma. Between 1973 and 1989, 49 patients with gastrointestinal lymphomas were treated at the Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, and followed in the tumor registry. The purpose of this review was to determine the influence of treatment on long-term survival of these patients. The mean age was 63 years (range: 38 to 83 years). There were 33 men and 16 women. The primary tumor sites were gastric 33 (67%), small bowel 11 (22%), and colon 5 (10%). Common signs and/or symptoms at presentation were pain (n = 38), bleeding (n = 11), and weight loss (n = 14). The diagnostic sensitivities of contrast radiography, computed tomography, and endoscopic biopsy were 76%, 89%, and 79%, respectively. Forty-eight patients were treated, and one received supportive care only. Thirty-one patients had surgical resections, 33 patients had chemotherapy, and 16 patients had radiotherapy. Most (n = 30) had multimodality treatment. Statistically significant variables affecting survival rates in patients with gastric lymphomas were lower tumor stage, younger patient age, and surgical resection. 
Steatocystoma multiplex: appearance at mammography. The authors present mammographic findings in a patient with steatocystoma multiplex. Numerous oil cysts were seen in both breasts at mammography. The mammographic appearance is characteristic of, if not pathognomonic for, steatocystoma multiplex. 
Alterations of platelet membrane microviscosity in essential hypertension. 1. The metabolism of blood platelets, taken as an accessible model of excitable cells, has been reported to be altered in hypertension. Most of the identified alterations concern the functions of various plasma membrane constituents. 2. A possible modification of membrane microviscosity was investigated by 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene and 1-[4-(trimethylamino)phenyl]-6-phenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene fluorescence depolarization. In order to determine whether or not the membrane structures probed by these indicators were related to platelet physiological functions, the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration was determined in parallel. 3. At physiological temperature, the fluorescence anisotropy of 1-[4-(trimethylamino)phenyl]-6-phenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene was decreased in untreated hypertensive patients (0.276 +/- 0.002 versus 0.288 +/- 0.002, n = 23 and 22, P less than 0.001), indicating a lowered microviscosity at the lipid-water interface of cell membrane. It correlated inversely with blood pressure (P less than 0.001) and cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration (P less than 0.030). On the contrary, 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene fluorescence anisotropy was observed to vary with sex but not with blood pressure. 4. These results suggest that structural membrane modifications may participate in the various functional abnormalities observed in platelets from hypertensive patients. 
Bursitis of the tensor veli palatini muscle with an osteophyte on the pterygoid hamulus. Many patients with temporomandibular joint dysfunction and/or myofascial pain syndrome have numerous symptoms. In cases of multiple complaints, an attempt should be made to resolve symptoms on a step-by-step basis. In this case report, a patient was treated for only one of her numerous complaints, that is, a burning sensation on her palate when she touched the right tuberosity area with her tongue or finger. 
Oxygen transport in adult respiratory distress syndrome and other acute circulatory problems: relationship of oxygen delivery and oxygen consumption. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the evidence that oxygen consumption (VO2) is pathologically dependent on oxygen delivery (DO2). DATA SOURCES: Studies published since 1972 with their relevant bibliographies and computerized search of MEDLINE. STUDY SELECTION: All clinical papers reporting the relationship of: VO2 to DO2 in the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), sepsis, other critically ill patients, and normal individuals; cardiac output determined by measured VO2 to calculated VO2 from the arterial-mixed venous oxygen difference; blood lactate to DO2; and selected basic science studies. DATA EXTRACTION: Study quality was assessed and all pertinent data were summarized. RESULTS OF DATA EXTRACTION: Normal individuals display physiologic dependence of VO2 at very low levels of DO2 (330 mL/min.m2). Pathologic dependence of VO2 on DO2 entails two concepts: a) VO2 varies directly with DO2 over a wide range of DO2 and b) of particular import, tissue oxygen extraction is compromised. This pathologic supply dependence was initially identified in patients with ARDS; subsequently, it has been demonstrated in patients with sepsis and in a variety of other critically ill individuals. There are substantial, but not uniform, data documenting this dependence of VO2 on DO2 in ARDS. In some studies, this relationship correlates best with increased lactate concentrations. However, increased blood lactate concentrations do not accurately track other evidence of tissue hypoxia. Some researchers have attributed the finding of this supply dependency to artifact, when VO2 is determined by the arterial-mixed venous oxygen difference. However, when these methods are compared, the correlation is excellent. Others have raised the concern that appreciable changes in VO2, even over short periods of time, may result in physiologic increases in DO2. However, when "control" groups have been contemporaneously compared with patients with ARDS using the same methodology, they have not shown supply dependency. Interwoven throughout the studies reviewed is overwhelming and uniform evidence that both mixed venous oxygen tension (PVO2) and mixed venous oxygen content (CVO2) correlate poorly with cardiac output, DO2, or VO2. The inconsistencies in identifying pathologic DO2 dependency may well reflect the unknown variables that exist in patients with ARDS, perhaps better labeled, multiple organ system failure. CONCLUSIONS: Pathologic dependence of VO2 on DO2, especially the inability to increase tissue oxygen extraction, is present in most patients with ARDS and many other critically ill individuals. PVO2 and CVO2 are both unreliable indicators of cardiac output, DO2, or VO2. 
Long-term patency of the aortofemoral Dacron graft. A graft limb related study over a 25-years period. Graft limb patency was studied retrospectively in a consecutive series of 912 patients (1605 limbs), who received an aorto(bi)femoral Dacron graft for occlusive disease over a 25 years period (1963-1987). The mean follow-up for the series was 5.35 years (range 1 month to 23 years) and 18.5% of the patients were followed for at least 10 years. Primary patency decreased progressively to 83% at 10 years and 77% at 15 years. It was significantly improved to 90% (at 10 years) and 84% (at 15 years) by means of operative thrombectomy (secondary patency). Factors influencing patency (univariate analysis) were (1) concomitant femoropopliteal occlusive disease, (2) the site of the femoral anastomosis and (3) the date of the operation. Multivariate analysis in relation to the femoral anastomosis stressed the importance of profunda femoris artery disease and the date of operation. It is concluded that the negative effects of concomitant superficial femoral artery disease may be completely relieved by an adequate profundaplasty. Furthermore the substantial progress, we documented over the years of the study, supports our view that aortofemoral reconstruction may also be offered as the solution of choice to patients with milder forms of claudication. 
Behavioral arousal in newborn infants and its association with termination of apnea. Arousal is an important protective mechanism that aids in the resolution of obstructive sleep apnea in adults and children, but its role in neonatal apnea has not been investigated. The primary aim of the present study was to determine the role of arousal in the termination of apnea in preterm infants. Videorecording was used to identify spontaneous behavioral arousal in a group of healthy full-term (n = 7) and preterm (n = 10) infants before and during polygraphic monitoring of cardiorespiratory variables and in a group of preterm infants with apnea (n = 10) during similar polygraphic monitoring. Spontaneous arousal rates (mean +/- SE) in full-term infants before and during polygraphic monitoring were 0.18 +/- 0.03 and 0.23 +/- 0.07 episodes/min, respectively. Corresponding values in nonapneic preterm infants were 0.24 +/- 0.03 and 0.24 +/- 0.02 episodes/min. In apneic preterm infants, mean spontaneous arousal rate during polygraphic recording was 0.26 +/- 0.02, but it was considerably higher during apneic sleep periods (0.59 +/- 0.17) than during nonapneic sleep periods (0.25 +/- 0.01). The frequency of occurrence of arousal was significantly higher (P less than 0.005) in long vs. short apnea, mixed vs. central apnea, and severe vs. mild apnea. Although a clear association between arousal and apneic resolution was observed in preterm infants, lack of arousal responses in a large number of apneic episodes suggests that behavioral arousal is not essential for the termination of apnea in these infants. 
Superiority of granisetron to dexamethasone plus prochlorperazine in the prevention of chemotherapy-induced emesis. Trials of selective 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonists have shown excellent antiemetic activity for chemotherapy containing cisplatin when compared with high-dose metoclopramide. There is little information about the efficacy of these new agents for chemotherapy other than for high-dose cisplatin. We performed a double-blind, randomized trial comparing a single dose of the 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonist granisetron (BRL 43694A) as a single intravenous dose with dexamethasone plus prochlorperazine in 152 patients receiving their first course of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (mainly doxorubicin- and cyclophosphamide-containing combinations). During the first 24 hours, there was a statistically significant advantage for the granisetron group in terms of the prevention of both nausea and emesis. There was no difference in the frequency of reported adverse events. We conclude that granisetron is more effective than dexamethasone plus prochlorperazine in patients who are receiving moderately emetogenic cytotoxic agents. 
Pulsed-spray thrombolysis of arterial and bypass graft occlusions. Pulsed-spray thrombolysis is accomplished through forceful injection of a spray of highly concentrated urokinase into clot by using catheters with multiple side holes. We previously reported the immediate technical efficacy of the method in eight arterial and 10 bypass graft occlusions. We now describe the clinical efficacy of the method in a second, larger series of 23 native artery occlusions and 25 bypass graft occlusions. Transluminal angioplasty was performed after thrombolysis in 21 of the arteries and 24 of the bypass grafts. Initial thrombolysis was observed in all artery occlusions and all but one bypass graft occlusion with an average time for pulsed-spray lysis of 65 +/- 28 min in native arteries and 93 +/- 38 min in bypass grafts. Recanalization with improvement in symptoms or distal pulses after thrombolysis and angioplasty was achieved in 74% of treated arterial occlusions and 92% of treated graft occlusions. Of the 15 arteries that were recanalized and did not require adjunctive surgery, seven remained patent at 3-28 months follow-up. Nine of 23 recanalized bypass grafts required early adjunctive surgery. Of the nine synthetic and five saphenous vein grafts successfully recanalized and not requiring surgical revision, the mean patency was 4.3 +/- 3.1 months and 3.0 +/- 2.2 months, respectively. Minor complications were seen in 23% of cases. The two major complications (4%) involved one groin hematoma requiring surgery and one episode of gastrointestinal hemorrhage. We conclude that combined pulsed-spray thrombolysis and angioplasty achieve rapid and consistent arterial and graft recanalization with minimal risk. The method offers a favorable alternative to standard thrombolytic therapy of arterial occlusions. In occluded synthetic and vein bypass grafts, the technique is sometimes beneficial, either alone or combined with surgical revision. 
Globus pharyngeus: long-term follow-up and prognostic factors. A prospective trial of 80 patients with globus pharyngeus is reported. An in-depth analysis of the typical history at presentation is given. The average follow-up period was 27 months (range, 21 to 42 months). The asymptomatic rate at this interval was 25%, with a further 35% reporting a significant improvement in symptoms. Three independent factors were found to influence prognosis (p less than .05). These were sex, length of history at consultation, and the presence or absence of associated throat symptoms. Male patients having a history of the globus symptom for less than 3 months and not complaining of any associated throat symptoms had the best chance of becoming asymptomatic or symptomatically improved. The presence or absence of heartburn or its treatment had no bearing on outcome. 
A cohort study of stomach cancer in a high-risk American population. Demographic, smoking and dietary information was obtained from a cohort of 17,633 white American men, largely of Scandinavian and German descent, who responded to a mailed questionnaire in 1966. After 20 years of follow-up, 50% to 90% increases in mortality from stomach cancer (75 deaths) were found among foreign-born, their children, and among residents of the North Central states. An association was seen with low educational attainment and laboring or semiskilled occupations, primarily among immigrants and their children. Risk was evaluated in subjects who regularly smoked cigarettes (RR = 2.6, 95% CI = 1.1 to 5.8). A significant dose-response trend was observed, with subjects who smoked 30 or more cigarettes per day having more than a five-fold increased risk compared with those who never smoked. Elevated risks were also found for pipe smoking and smokeless tobacco use, but not for alcohol consumption. Analysis of dietary consumption of nine food groups revealed no significant associations with stomach cancer. However, total carbohydrate intake and a few individual food items (salted fish, bacon, cooked cereal, milk, and apples) were associated with increased risk. The findings of this prospective study of a high-risk population add to the limited evidence relating tobacco consumption to stomach cancer risk and suggest clues to ethnic, geographic, and dietary risk factors. 
False-positive immunostaining of normal epithelia and carcinomas with ascites fluid preparations of antimelanoma monoclonal antibody HMB45. HMB45 is a melanoma-specific monoclonal antibody that has found widespread use in diagnostic pathology. Recent reports, however, have suggested that this antibody may cross-react with a small number of carcinomas and other epithelial cells. The authors tested the hypothesis that these latter reports represent examples of false-positive immunostaining by comparing the immunostaining on breast, salivary gland, and lung tumors with the following: (1) a commercial ascites preparation of this monoclonal antibody; (2) a protein A-purified antibody preparation derived from ascites fluid; and (3) supernatant fluid obtained from the hybridoma cell line. The authors found that all examples of nonmelanoma immunostaining in the carcinomas tested were eliminated with the nonascites fluid preparations, whereas strong immunostaining of melanomas was retained. The authors conclude that contaminated commercial ascites fluid preparations of HMB45 may account for most, if not all, of the reports of nonmelanoma immunostaining with HMB45. 
Evaluation of right ventricular regional perfusion with technetium-99m-sestamibi SPECT. To evaluate technetium-99m-sestamibi as a right ventricular perfusion imaging agent, 25 normal volunteers and 25 patients with suspected coronary disease were studied with both sestamibi and thallium-201 SPECT. All patients underwent cardiac characterization. Compared to thallium-201 images, visualization of the right ventricle was superior for sestamibi in all cases. After computer masking of the left ventricle, count profiles for each 6-mm right ventricular short-axis slice were extracted and plotted in a bull's-eye type polar map with images normalized to maximal right ventricular counts. On sestamibi right ventricular polar maps, 7 of 11 patients (64%) with right coronary stenosis had fixed or reversible inferior right ventricular defects. None of the 25 volunteers or patients without right coronary stenosis had right ventricular defects (true-negative rate = 100%). We conclude that sestamibi SPECT provides an accurate means to assess right ventricular regional perfusion, with data presentation and interpretation facilitated by the polar map display. 
Lack of increased bleeding after liver biopsy in patients with mild hemostatic abnormalities. Prophylactic transfusions of fresh frozen plasma and platelets are sometimes given to patients with mild elevations in prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time (PTT) and mild thrombocytopenia before percutaneous liver biopsy. To determine whether PTs and PTTs 1.1-1.5 times midrange normal levels and platelet counts 50-99 x 10(9)/L are associated with increased bleeding complications, hospital records of all patients who underwent percutaneous liver biopsy during 56 consecutive months (n = 291) were reviewed. Complete information was available for 177 inpatient procedures (155 standard, 22 fine needle). Overall, the frequency of bleeding complications in patients with platelet counts greater than or equal to 50 X 10(9)/L was 3.4% (6 of 175), with no significant difference between patients with mild hemostatic abnormalities and patients with normal parameters. These data suggest that prophylactic transfusions may not be necessary. One factor was highly associated with bleeding complications: a patient diagnosis of malignancy, 14% (7 of 50) compared with 0.8% (1 of 127) among other patients (P less than 0.001). These patients should be monitored closely after biopsy. 
Serum gastrin increases with increasing dietary calcium but not with increasing dietary fat or fiber in Fischer-344 rats. We studied the effects of dietary calcium, fat and fiber on serum gastrin in Fischer-344 rats in a full factorial experiment as part of a larger study of diet and colon cancer risk factors. Nine- to 10-wk-old male rats were fed standard or experimental diets for 4 wk. Wheat bran was the sole source of fiber. Wheat bran levels were 0, 2.5, 10 and 20%; fat levels were 1, 5 and 10%; calcium levels were 0.18, 0.52 and 1.04% of diet weight. On d 29 serum was collected and stored at -80 degrees C until analyzed. There was a significant (P less than 0.0001) dose-dependent increase in serum gastrin from 102 to 173 ng/L, with increasing calcium. No other significant changes in serum gastrin were noted with the dietary changes. A long-term change in the level of serum gastrin, caused by dietary modification, will influence the trophic effect that gastrin has on colonic mucosa as well as on colon carcinomas. We speculate that calcium supplementation, although slowing colonic proliferation, might have an undesirable effect on the growth of early undetected colonic tumors. 
The detrimental effects of intravenous crystalloid after aortotomy in swine We tested the hypothesis that, after aortotomy, rapidly replacing three times the blood volume deficit with intravenous crystalloid will increase hemorrhage and decrease survival. Sixteen anesthetized Yorkshire swine underwent splenectomy and stainless steel wire placement in the infrarenal aorta and were instrumented with pulmonary artery and carotid artery catheters. The wire was pulled, producing a 5 mm aortotomy and spontaneous intraperitoneal hemorrhage. The animals had been alternately assigned to either an untreated control group (n = 8) or a treatment group (n = 8), which received 80 ml/kg lactated Ringer's solution intravenously. The volume of hemorrhage and the mortality rate were significantly increased (p less than 0.05) in the treatment group receiving lactated Ringer's solution relative to the control animals (2142 +/- 178 ml versus 783 +/- 85 ml, and eight of eight animals versus zero of eight animals, respectively). From these data we conclude that, in this model of uncontrolled arterial hemorrhage resulting from abdominal aortotomy, rapidly administering lactated Ringer's solution intravenously significantly increases hemorrhage and death. 
Anti-B-cell monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of severe B-cell lymphoproliferative syndrome following bone marrow and organ transplantation. BACKGROUND. The B-cell lymphoproliferative syndrome is an infrequent life-threatening complication of marrow or organ transplantation that is the consequence of profound immunosuppression. The results of treatment have been disappointing, although a small number of patients have been cured by chemoradiotherapy or antiviral agents after a reduction in the dosage of immunosuppressive therapy. We report here the results of treating this disorder with anti-B-cell antibodies. METHODS. Twenty-six patients in whom aggressive B-cell lymphoproliferative syndrome developed after bone marrow (n = 14) or organ (n = 12) transplantation received 0.2 mg of CD21-specific and of CD24-specific antibodies per kilogram of body weight for 10 consecutive days in an open, prospective, multicenter trial. RESULTS. The treatment was well tolerated. All patients had transient neutropenia, apparently because the CD24 molecule is also expressed on granulocytes. The treatment was ineffective in seven patients with monoclonal B-cell proliferation. In contrast, 16 patients with oligoclonal B-cell proliferation had complete remission. Systemic remission also occurred in two other patients with oligoclonal proliferation who had central nervous system involvement, although they subsequently died because of progression of the central nervous system disease. In one patient who died early, clonality was not determined. Of the 16 patients who had complete remission, 2 with persistent immunodeficiency due to graft (marrow) rejection or acute graft-versus-host disease had a relapse, and the 1 with graft-versus-host disease subsequently died. Eleven patients were alive and disease-free after a median follow-up of 35 months (5 of 14 marrow recipients and 6 of 12 organ recipients). Four other patients in complete remission died of unrelated causes 4 to 12 months after treatment. CONCLUSIONS. Intravenous administration of anti-B-cell antibodies may be effective in controlling diffuse, severe, oligoclonal B-cell proliferation not involving the central nervous system. 
Excision of cavernous angioma with preservation of coexisting venous angioma. Case report. The case of a patient presenting with dysphasic seizures due to a cavernous angioma coexisting with a venous malformation is reported. The cavernous angioma was resected with preservation of the venous malformation, as confirmed by postoperative studies. The patient was seizure-free following surgery. 
Effects of spinal kappa-opioid receptor agonists on the responsiveness of nociceptive superficial dorsal horn neurons. Spinal cord application of the kappa-opioid receptor agonists dynorphin (50 nmol) or (1S,2S)U-50,488H (0.19-1.9 mumol) produced changes in the excitability of some superficial dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. One-third of the cells exhibited expansion of their receptive fields as defined using mechanical stimuli following a spinal kappa agonist (dynorphin or U-50,488H); receptive field expansions were of the same order as those observed immediately after a conditioning electrical stimulus applied to a peripheral nerve. In addition, spinal U-50,488H produced changes in mechanical and thermal thresholds of the majority of superficial dorsal horn neurons. These changes were dose-dependent. Facilitation of responses occurred at lower doses and inhibition occurred primarily at higher doses, but these effects were not reversed by subsequent administration of naloxone. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that one action of increases in spinal dynorphin levels due to peripheral inflammation, tissue injury or nerve damage, is to contribute to enhanced neuronal excitability in superficial dorsal horn neurons. 
Thyroid cancer: a lethal endocrine neoplasm. This conference focuses on the controversies about managing thyroid cancer, emphasizing the possibility that the treatment of patients with potentially fatal thyroid cancer may be improved. Although the mortality rate from thyroid cancer is low, it is the highest among cancers affecting the endocrine glands (excluding the ovary). Exposure to radiation during childhood in the 1930s and 1940s increased the incidence of but not the mortality from thyroid cancer, because these tumors are mainly papillary cancers developing in young adults. These rates may change as the exposed cohort ages. Risk factors that increase mortality include older patient age and the growth characteristics of the tumor at diagnosis, the presence of distant metastases, and cell type (for example, the tall-cell variants of papillary cancer, follicular cancer [to be distinguished from the more benign follicular variant of papillary cancer], medullary cancer, and anaplastic cancer). Local metastases in lymph nodes do not seem to increase the risk for death from papillary cancer, but they do increase the risk for death from follicular and medullary cancer. In the latter, mortality is decreased by the early detection and treatment of patients with the familial multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome 2a. There are excellent tumor markers for differentiated cancer of the parafollicular and of the follicular cells (serum calcitonin and serum thyroglobulin levels, respectively). Measuring the calcitonin level allows early diagnosis of familial medullary cancer, whereas measuring the thyroglobulin level, although useful only after total thyroidectomy, allows early recognition of recurrence or metastases of papillary or follicular cancer. Initial surgery, protocols for follow-up, and the use of radioiodine for the ablation of any residual thyroid and the treatment of metastatic cancer are discussed. Because these tumors resist currently available chemotherapy regimens, possible ways to increase the effectiveness of radioiodine therapy are considered as are new approaches to treatment. 
Cancer risk after iodine-131 therapy for hyperthyroidism. Cancer incidence was studied in 10,552 patients (mean age, 57 years) who received 131I therapy (mean dose, 506 MBq) for hyperthyroidism between 1950 and 1975. Follow-up on these patients was continued for an average of 15 years. Record linkage with the Swedish Cancer Register for the period 1958-1985 identified 1543 cancers occurring 1 year or more after 131I treatment, and the standardized incidence ratio (SIR) was 1.06 (95% confidence interval = 1.01-1.11). Significantly increased SIRs were observed for cancers of the lung (SIR = 1.32; n = 105) and kidney (SIR = 1.39; n = 66). Among 10-year survivors, significantly elevated risks were seen for cancers of the stomach (SIR = 1.33; n = 58), kidney (SIR = 1.51; n = 37), and brain (SIR = 1.63; n = 30). Only the risk for stomach cancer, however, increased over time (P less than .05) and with increasing activity administered (P = not significant). The risk for malignant lymphoma was significantly below expectation (SIR = 0.53; n = 11). Overall cancer risk did not increase with administered 131I dose or with time since exposure. The absence of any increase in leukemia adds further support to the view that a radiation dose delivered gradually over time is less carcinogenic than the same total dose received over a short time. Only for stomach cancer was a possible radiogenic excess suggested. 
Recovery of CD3+ and CD5- lymphocyte subpopulation after autologous bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy. Although most circulating T cells in normal subjects express both CD3 and CD5 antigens on the cell surface, a small number lack the CD5 antigen. Recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplants develop increased numbers of CD3+ CD5- cells, particularly those who develop graft versus host disease (GVHD). This CD3+ CD5- population may rise transiently in patients who have received an autologous bone marrow transplant (BMT) and in patients following completion of intensive chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). These findings suggest that these CD3+ CD5- cells are a normal component of the regenerating lymphoid system after BMT or chemotherapy. 
Use of light reflection rheography for diagnosis of axillary or subclavian venous thrombosis. Noninvasive diagnosis of axillary and subclavian venous thrombosis or documentation of the post-thrombotic syndrome using modalities currently in use is not definitive. Light reflection rheography, which is a reflection of venous pressure changes in the extremity as recorded from the subdermal capillary plexus, was used to correctly diagnose axillary or subclavian venous thrombosis in 11 patients. A positive study was confirmed by phlebography in each instance. There were no instances of false-positive results. The methodology is simple, involving testing of the venous outflow from the upper extremity in response to exercise, application of venous congesting pressure, and measurement of the rate of venous outflow when the congesting pressure is released. Normal respiratory variations of an open venous system are also assessed by this noninvasive modality. The tracing obtained is easy to interpret and provides objective evidence of proximal venous occlusion. The test is not operator-dependent and the instrumentation is relatively inexpensive. We believe that light reflection rheography may be an exciting development in the noninvasive diagnosis of axillary or subclavian venous compromise and merits further trials. 
Congenital optic tract syndrome. We describe two patients with complete homonymous hemianopia who were unaware of their visual field defects. The clinical impression of an optic tract syndrome was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging, which showed absence of the corresponding tract in each case. The pathogenesis of congenital absence of the optic tract is unclear but it could represent either a primary failure of development or secondary atrophy due to focal injury during the perinatal period. 
Diagnostic implications of spectral and temporal analysis of the entire cardiac cycle in patients with ventricular tachycardia BACKGROUND. Available methods for analysis of signal-averaged electrocardiograms (ECGs) have a low-positive predictive accuracy for identifying patients at risk for ventricular arrhythmias. Identification of the spectral and temporal features in ECGs that distinguish patients prone to ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a prerequisite to implementing refinements in methods that increase the diagnostic power of the signal-averaged ECG. METHODS AND RESULTS. Fast Fourier transforms and time-domain reconstructions based on inverse fast Fourier transforms were computed over the entire cardiac cycle of signal-averaged ECGs of sinus beats from 40 patients with myocardial infarction and sustained VT, 41 with infarction without VT, and 20 normal controls. Ventricular depolarization and repolarization were analyzed by procedures that obviate limited resolution due to short data segments and window functions. Spectral magnitudes of ECGs from patients in each group were compared, and the phase data were used for time-domain reconstructions to determine the temporal distributions of distinguishing frequency bands during the cardiac cycle. Magnitudes of 1-7-Hz frequencies were increased (from p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.00001), and magnitudes of 13-56-Hz and 70-128-Hz frequencies were decreased (from p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.00001) in the spectra of ECGs from patients with VT compared with patients without VT. Time-domain reconstructions demonstrated that 1-7-Hz frequencies were detectable throughout the QRS complex, ST segment, and T wave in ECGs from each group. The 13-56-Hz and 70-128-Hz frequency bands not only contributed to the terminal QRS and ST segment but were also detectable throughout the QRS complex of ECGs from patients with VT. CONCLUSIONS. Results define new spectral and temporal features in signal-averaged ECGs from patients with VT that are excluded from analysis by available techniques that limit the bandwidth or restrict interrogation to portions of the cardiac cycle. These findings provide an objective basis for developing new indexes for signal-averaged ECG analysis. 
Effect of theophylline on sleep and sleep-disordered breathing in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. To investigate the effect of theophylline on sleep and sleep-disordered breathing in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), we studied 12 male nonhypercapnic subjects with a mean +/- SEM age of 62.8 +/- 2.5 yr and a FEV1 of 1.36 +/- 0.11 L using a randomized double-blind crossover protocol. Sustained-action theophylline (250 mg three times or four times a day) or placebo was administered for 2 days, and the alternate drug was administered on the following 2 days. Sleep studies were performed on Nights 2 and 4 with spirometry at 9:00P.M. and 7:00A.M. Two puffs of metaproterenol or albuterol were administered at 10:00P.M. on both study nights. A theophylline level, drawn at bedtime (10:00 to 11:00P.M.), was 14.2 +/- 0.78 micrograms/ml on the theophylline nights and less than 2 on placebo nights. The morning FEV1 was significantly better during theophylline administration (1.27 +/- 0.12 versus 1.00 +/- 0.11 L, p less than 0.001). The mean arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) and transcutaneous carbon dioxide pressure (PCO2) were also better during NREM sleep on theophylline nights. Neither the mean SaO2 and transcutaneous PCO2 during REM sleep nor the apnea plus hypopnea index (events per hour of sleep) differed between placebo and theophylline nights. Theophylline administration did not impair the amount or architecture of sleep as neither total sleep time nor the fraction of time spent in Stages 1, 2, and 3/4 and REM differed between the two regimens. The number of arousals per hour of sleep was slightly less on theophylline nights (19.9 +/- 1.7 versus 24.9 +/- 2.7, p less than 0.05). 
Psychiatric illness and irritable bowel syndrome: a comparison with inflammatory bowel disease Structured psychiatric interviews and psychological self-report measures were administered to 28 patients with irritable bowel syndrome and 19 patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Significantly more of the patients with irritable bowel syndrome had lifetime diagnoses of major depression, somatization disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, and phobic disorder. They had significantly more medically unexplained somatic symptoms, and most had suffered from psychiatric disorders, particularly anxiety disorders, before the onset of their irritable bowel symptoms. 
Persistent extrapyramidal syndrome with dystonia and rigidity caused by combined metoclopramide and prochlorperazine therapy. We have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with cerebral palsy who experienced a persistent, generalized syndrome of dystonia and rigidity (tardive dystonia-parkinsonism) while being treated for vomiting with metoclopramide in combination with prochlorperazine. This syndrome was more severe than is typically seen in drug-induced extrapyramidal syndromes and may have contributed to her death. The extreme severity of this disorder was probably related to the use of a combination of dopamine antagonists in a patient who had premorbid cerebral dysfunction. Although dopamine antagonists should always be used with caution in individuals with cerebral dysfunction, this particular combination of antiemetics should probably be avoided in such patients. 
Coronary angiography after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. PURPOSE: To review the status of emergency, urgent, routine, and selective angiography after intravenous thrombolytic therapy. DATA SOURCES: Relevant English-language articles published from January 1985 to July 1990 were identified through MEDLINE. STUDY SELECTION: For emergency angiography, four major randomized studies were reviewed and data from nine studies that incorporated rescue coronary angioplasty were pooled for meta-analysis. For urgent angiography, two controlled trials were reviewed. Comparisons of routine and selective angiography were done using data from two dedicated, large-scale, controlled trials and the ancillary findings of four other studies of reperfusion that incorporated angiography. DATA EXTRACTION: The review emphasizes the findings from multicenter, randomized, controlled trials. DATA SYNTHESIS: Emergency coronary angiography is done primarily in preparation for primary or rescue angioplasty; the value of rescue angioplasty has yet to be assessed in a randomized trial, but technical success and reocclusion improve significantly after therapy with nonspecific plasminogen activators compared with relatively specific agents (success rate, 86% compared with 75%, respectively; P = 0.03; reocclusion rate, 10.9% compared with 26.8%, respectively; P less than 0.001). Urgent coronary angiography has value for treating recurrent ischemia, but patients who develop this complication after thrombolysis are likely to have a suboptimal outcome despite aggressive care. Studies support the use of either selective or routine angiography in uncomplicated patients after thrombolytic therapy; either approach is acceptable, but the former is more practical and may prove to be cost effective. CONCLUSIONS: Optimal follow-up for patients with evolving myocardial infarction who receive thrombolysis may incorporate coronary angiography at various stages. Although our ability to noninvasively detect reperfusion, reocclusion, or viable but ischemic myocardium is limited at present, available data may assist in selecting a catheterization strategy. 
Cerebral ischemic events associated with endocarditis, retinal vascular disease, and lupus anticoagulant. PURPOSE: A group of young patients presenting with cerebral ischemic events, endocardial lesions, and lupus anticoagulant is described in order to highlight the common clinical laboratory features. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fourteen consecutive patients (10 females, age range 17 to 53 years [mean 38 years]) at onset of symptoms of cerebral ischemia who had evidence of the lupus anticoagulant syndrome and were being followed prospectively are reviewed. All patients had abnormal phospholipid-dependent coagulation test results, and most had anticardiolipin antibody at the time of presentation. Three of 14 had four or more American Rheumatism Association criteria for definite systemic lupus erythematosus and the remaining patients were considered to have primary lupus anticoagulant syndrome. RESULTS: The common features among these patients included at least one cerebral ischemic event at presentation (stroke or transient ischemic attack), or recurrent episodes suggesting cerebral ischemia (amaurosis fugax, recurrent severe migraine headaches), livedo reticularis, endocardial valvular lesions noted on echocardiography (11 mitral, two aortic valve) that were often associated with discrete vegetations, retinal vascular lesions, and computed tomographic/magnetic resonance imaging scanning or angiographic evidence of multiple cerebral infarction. Venous thromboembolic events were uncommon (three of 14). Common laboratory studies included thrombocytopenia (10 of 14), positive direct Coombs' test result (11 of 14), and hypocomplementemia (11 of 14). Follow-up after initial treatment with either salicylates or anticoagulant therapy (warfarin) for up to 10 years indicated that while many patients had recurrent symptoms suggesting cerebral ischemia, major stroke syndromes did not recur nor new episodes emerge. CONCLUSION: The combination of multiple cerebral ischemic lesions and endocardial lesions, including valvular vegetations, suggests that these cerebral ischemic events represent cerebral emboli, and that these cerebral embolic events originate from vegetative lesions on the mitral or, less commonly, aortic valve, in association with lupus anticoagulant. 
Nonsurgical treatment of drooling in a patient with closed head injury and severe dysarthria. The purpose of this investigation was to measure the effectiveness of the antimuscarinic drug atropine sulfate in the treatment of chronic drooling in a patient with a history of severe closed head injury and resultant widespread oral neuromuscular and higher cortical disturbances. Results of the A-B-A-B-A-B withdrawal paradigm, chosen to demonstrate the functional relationship between drug therapy and the degree of drooling, revealed that administration of atropine sulfate reduced by more than 50% of baseline levels the amount of resting secretion, intraoral accumulation, and pharyngeal-laryngeal pooling of saliva, with negligible side effects. These results are discussed and compared to the alternative drug and surgical approaches to treatment that have been the primary focus of recent research on drooling. 
Cardiac reperfusion damage prevented by a nitroxide free radical. Experimental evidence is presented that directly links ischemia/reperfusion injury to the formation of oxygen-derived free radicals. 2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyl (TEMPO)--a stable nitroxide radical that disproportionates superoxide radicals and oxidizes reduced metal ions required for OH. formation--was tested for its ability to prevent reperfusion damage in the isolated rat heart subjected to regional ischemia. Severe reperfusion arrhythmia--ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia--were prominent in control hearts, and their duration was significantly reduced by the presence of 0.4 or 1 mM TEMPO. TEMPO also repressed both postischemic release of lactate dehydrogenase and OH. formation. TEMPO slowed the heart rate, but compensatory pacing did not alter the dramatic effect of the nitroxide on reperfusion arrhythmia. TEMPO was partially protective when introduced at the end of ischemia but had no effect when added 1 min into reperfusion. It was concluded that both reperfusion arrhythmia and cell damage were directly related to oxidative damage incurred during the critical first minute of reperfusion. TEMPO strongly protected against reperfusion injury by preventing the formation of OH. and not by decreasing heart rate or by direct suppression of arrhythmia. 
The role of endogenous opiates in athletic amenorrhea. We hypothesized that menstrual disturbances in female athletes arise from opioid-induced abnormalities in gonadotropin and/or prolactin (PRL) secretion. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, and PRL levels in eumenorrheic and amenorrheic athletes during thyrotropin-releasing hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone tests at baseline, after naloxone infusions, after exercise to exhaustion, and after similar exercise during naloxone infusions. Contrary to our hypothesis, amenorrheic runners did not have significant alterations in basal, postexercise, or stimulated hormone levels compared with eumenorrheic runners. In addition, opioid blockade by naloxone did not enhance gonadotropin release by amenorrheic athletes. 
Pentamorphone for management of postoperative pain. The efficacy, duration, and safety of the synthetic opioid pentamorphone in the treatment of acute postoperative pain were evaluated in a randomized, double-blind study of 72 patients given 0.08, 0.16, or 0.24 micrograms/kg of pentamorphone or a placebo intravenously in the recovery room after major abdominal or orthopedic surgery. Only patients given 0.24 micrograms/kg of pentamorphone experienced decreased pain intensity and increased sedation, both transient in duration. Although the two higher doses of pentamorphone delayed the patient's request for supplemental morphine, the total amount of morphine required within the first hour was not different between treatments. No acute cardiorespiratory changes were observed. Pentamorphone (0.08-0.24 micrograms/kg) was ineffective for treating acute postoperative pain after major surgery. 
Bilateral vestibular paresis: diagnosis and treatment. Patients with bilateral peripheral vestibular dysfunction present a substantial diagnostic and therapeutic challenge to the otologist. Caloric irrigations that suggest bilateral weakness may mislead the clinician when considerable peripheral function remains. Rotary chair testing at several frequencies is helpful in confirming the degree of residual function and may identify patients who have a better prognosis in rehabilitation. Forty-nine patients with bilateral vestibular paresis were evaluated. The diagnosis was based on caloric responses of less than 5 degrees/sec in both ears and reduced gain on rotary chair trials. Oscillopsia occurred in the minority of patients (35%) and was rare unless severe paresis was present. Episodic vertigo occurred in 43%. All patients had abnormal posturography results, with vestibular dysfunction and severe dysfunction patterns predominating. The treatment outcomes of 22 patients who underwent vestibular rehabilitation are discussed. Prevention of bilateral vestibular paresis remains a high priority. 
A clinical and experimental study on all-trans retinoic acid-treated acute promyelocytic leukemia patients. Fifty patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) have been treated with all-trans retinoic acid (RA). In vitro induced differentiation of primarily cultured bone marrow cells from the patients, colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) and L-CFU colony-forming assays, and karyotype analysis were performed over the treatment course. The very high bone marrow complete remission (CR) rate (94%) suggested that all-trans RA was superior to conventional chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of APL. The leukemic clone was reduced by RA-induced terminal differentiation and loss of proliferation capacity of leukemic cells. Relapse after CR in about 40% of patients was the major reason for the failure of the RA treatment. Patients who relapsed after a chemotherapy-maintained CR could be effectively reinduced to second CR by RA. However, if relapse occurred after a CR maintained by both RA and chemotherapy, the sensitivity of newly emerged leukemic clones to RA was greatly reduced. Therefore, it is suggested that RA should be replaced by conventional chemotherapy as soon as CR is achieved. Laboratory studies proved valuable in selecting cases for RA therapy and in predicting therapeutic effects and prognosis. 
Carcinomas with metaplasia and sarcomas of the breast. The clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and flow cytometric characteristics of 34 cases of mammary carcinoma with metaplasia were compared with those of 20 cases of pure sarcoma of the breast. All 20 of the latter tumors showed the pattern of malignant fibrous histiocytoma. There were 20 cases of carcinoma with mesenchymal metaplasia, 7 cases of carcinoma with mixed epithelial (squamous) and mesenchymal metaplasia, and 7 cases of carcinoma with epithelial metaplasia (four mixed ductal/squamous and three pure squamous cell carcinomas). No patient with pure sarcoma had lymph node metastases develop; all nodal metastases were found in patients who had carcinoma with metaplasia, although in one case the carcinomatous component was seen only within a lymph node metastasis. Epithelial antigens were found not only within the epithelial elements of all cases of carcinoma, but also within the apparent mesenchymal elements of 44% of the carcinomas showing divergent differentiation. Flow cytometric analysis of eight cases of carcinoma with mesenchymal metaplasia showed aneuploidy/tetraploidy in six neoplasms. For patient management purposes, the distinction of pure sarcoma from carcinoma with metaplasia is important, but additional subclassification of carcinoma with metaplasia is of greater biologic than clinical interest. 
Granulocytic sarcoma of the ovary. An unusual case presentation. We report an unusual occurrence of granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an ovarian mass in a 46-year-old woman with a history of dysplastic nevus syndrome. During workup of the ovarian mass, the diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukemia was made. A fine-needle aspirate of the ovarian mass showed granulocytic sarcoma. The patient died of complications of the acute leukemia a short time later. A postmortem examination was performed, which confirmed the nature of the ovarian mass as a granulocytic sarcoma. Material was obtained for flow cytometry, immunohistochemical and histochemical studies, and electron microscopy. Ploidy analysis of the tumor showed it to be diploid with an S phase of 4.8% and a G2 + M ratio of 0.5%. To our knowledge, there is only one previous report of a primary ovarian presentation of granulocytic sarcoma, and only four cases in which granulocytic sarcoma was diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration cytology. The association between dysplastic nevus syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in this case is discussed with reference to a review of the metachronous association between melanoma and leukemia as described in the literature. 
Oral leukoplakia and adolescent smokeless tobacco use. The recent increase in smokeless tobacco (ST) use has prompted investigators to assess the health effects of ST use. This study attempted to evaluate the prevalence of oral leukoplakia among adolescent users and to determine factors associated with its presence. During their annual physical examination, 1116 teenaged football players (567 black, 546 white) answered a 34-question survey and received an oral screening examination. Results indicated that 0.5% of nonusers, 1.5% of previous users, and 13% of current users had clinically evident oral leukoplakia. Factors statistically associated with higher leukoplakia rates included history of ST use, regular ST use, years of ST use, and the weekly quantity consumed. Factors not associated included use of alcohol, use of cigarettes, type of ST used, and hours of ST use. One brand of snuff was found to be associated with a relative risk of leukoplakia higher than that of another brand of snuff. Overall, in ST users oral leukoplakia was six times more likely to develop than in nonusers. Earlier ages of ST use may lead to greater periods of use (in years) and to possible increases in deleterious long-term health effects in current adolescents. 
Enteropathogens associated with acute diarrheal disease in urban infants in Sao Paulo, Brazil. To determine the prevalence and epidemiology of enteropathogens in acute infantile diarrhea, 500 infants less than or equal to 12 months of age with diarrhea and 500 age-matched control subjects coming to a Sao Paulo emergency room were studied. Enteropathogens were identified in 55% of case infants and 10% of controls; enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) of classic EPEC serotypes producing EPEC adherence factor (EAF) (26% of case infants), rotavirus (14%), Salmonella species (8%), enterotoxigenic E. coli (7%), and Shigella species (5%) were associated with diarrhea. Isolation of EAF+ classic EPEC decreased with increasing age of cases and peaked in spring, whereas rotavirus was least common in early infancy and peaked in fall and winter. Bloody stool had a 36% positive predictive value for Shigella infection, EAF+ classic EPEC were highly resistant to antimicrobial drugs. Among poor Sao Paulo infants, EAF+ classic EPEC equaled or exceeded rotavirus throughout the year as a cause of diarrhea bringing children to medical attention. 
Feeding regimens after pyloromyotomy. In a prospective randomized study three different feeding regimens after operation were compared in 74 babies with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: gradual regarding of feeds over 48 h (regimen 1), rapid regarding of feeds over 16 h (regimen 2), and initial starvation followed by full normal feeds at 24 h (regimen 3). No significant difference between the treatment groups was found either in episodes of vomiting after operation (regimen 1, 2.9 episodes in 21 patients; regimen 2, 3.6 episodes in 28 patients; regimen 3, 3.6 episodes in 25 patients) or in the mean duration of postoperative hospital stay (regimen 1, 59.3 h; regimen 2, 47.8 h; regimen 3, 56.7 h). We conclude that vomiting following pyloromyotomy is self-limiting and independent of the timetable or composition of the postoperative dietary regimen. 
Evaluation of the effect of perineuronal morphine on the quality of postoperative analgesia after axillary plexus block: a randomized double-blind study. A randomized, double-blind study was performed on 50 patients scheduled for elective hand and forearm surgery under axillary plexus block to evaluate the effect of perineuronal morphine on the quality of postoperative analgesia. Patients were divided into two groups. In group A (n = 25) 5 mg of preservative-free morphine in 1.0 mL of 0.9% saline was added to the local anesthetic solution (20 mL of 1% plain lignocaine, 20 mL of 0.5% plain bupivacaine). They also received an intramuscular placebo injection of 1.0 mL of 0.9% saline in the upper thigh. In group B (n = 25), 1.0 mL of 0.9% saline was added to the local anesthetic solution and patients received an intramuscular injection of 5 mg of preservative-free morphine in 1.0 mL of 0.9% saline in the thigh. The addition of morphine to the local anesthetic solution for the axillary block did not shorten the onset time of the block, improve the quality of postoperative pain relief, or provide longer lasting analgesia than that obtained with intramuscular morphine. 
Vascular renin-angiotensin system and neurotransmission in hypertensive persons. The existence of a vascular renin-angiotensin system and its role in modulating sympathetic activity were evaluated in forearm arterioles of hypertensive individuals. Isoproterenol (0.03, 0.01, 0.3 microgram/100 ml/min for 5 minutes each; n = 5) was infused into the brachial artery, and active and inactive renin, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine forearm balance (venous-arterial differences corrected for forearm blood flow by strain-gauge plethysmography) were measured. Isoproterenol caused vasodilation and a dose-dependent active and inactive renin, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine outflow, an effect blunted by propranolol (10 micrograms/100 ml/min). To evaluate the role of local angiotensin II on beta-mediated norepinephrine overflow, the experiment was repeated with captopril (2.5 micrograms/100 ml/min for 10 minutes; n = 5), which abolished angiotensin II release and significantly reduced norepinephrine overflow. To test whether angiotensin II facilitates both prejunctional norepinephrine release and its postjunctional action, we evaluated the effect of exogenous angiotensin II, infused into the brachial artery at low concentrations (0.001 microgram/100 ml/min), on forearm vasoconstriction and norepinephrine release induced by endogenous sympathetic activation (application of a lower body negative pressure: -10 and -20 mm Hg for 5 minutes, n = 10) and on the vasoconstrictor effect of local norepinephrine (0.0015, 0.005, 0.015, 0.05, 0.15 micrograms/100 ml/min for 3 minutes each; n = 6). Although angiotensin II increased the vasoconstricting effect and the norepinephrine release induced by lower body negative pressure, it failed to affect norepinephrine-mediated vasoconstriction. Our data indicate the existence in hypertensive individuals of a vascular renin-angiotensin system that seems to modulate sympathetic activity through the presynaptic facilitation of norepinephrine release. 
Impaired lipopolysaccharide-inducible tumor necrosis factor production in vitro by peripheral blood monocytes of patients with viral hepatitis. We investigated lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor production in vitro by peripheral blood monocytes from patients with various liver diseases. Tumor necrosis factor production was found to be significantly reduced in patients with chronic hepatitis B (n = 17; 135 +/- 30 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml; mean +/- S.E.M.) and patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis (n = 15; 212 +/- 22 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml) compared with healthy control individuals (n = 47; 411 +/- 40 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml; p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01, respectively). This reduced tumor necrosis factor production was not only seen with an optimal stimulating concentration of lipopolysaccharide (100 ng/ml) but also with suboptimal concentrations (0.1 ng/ml). In contrast to patients with chronic viral hepatitis, monocytes from patients with alcohol-induced cirrhosis (n = 26; 444 +/- 49 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml), primary biliary cirrhosis (n = 7; 412 +/- 81 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml) and alcohol-induced fatty liver changes (n = 5; 401 +/- 62 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml) produced normal amounts of tumor necrosis factor when stimulated with an optimal concentration of lipopolysaccharide. Lipopolysaccharide (0.1 ng lipopolysaccharide/ml)-stimulated peripheral blood monocytes of patients with chronic hepatitis B (n = 15; 102 +/- 32 pg/ml) or non-A, non-B hepatitis (n = 13; 97+/- 16 pg/ml) could not be induced to produce more tumor necrosis factor either when prestimulated with gamma-interferon (170 +/- 45 pg/ml and 149 +/- 32 pg/ml, respectively), a lymphokine known to activate monocytes, or with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin to reduce the suppressive effect of prostaglandin E2 (148 +/- 40 pg/ml and 153 +/- 45 pg/ml, respectively. 
The burden of acute respiratory infection due to measles in developing countries and the potential impact of measles vaccine. Measles is a major cause of acute lower respiratory infection (ALRI) in developing countries. Hospital and community-based studies of ALRI have found that measles accounts for 6%-21% of the morbidity and 8%-93% of the mortality due to ALRI. Although live attenuated measles vaccine is one of the most effective vaccines in use today, measles has not been controlled in many parts of the world, primarily because the levels of vaccine coverage required to interrupt measles transmission have not been achieved. In addition, in some areas, a large percentage of cases of measles occur in infants who are younger than the age recommended for vaccination. Recent studies suggest that the Edmonston-Zagreb measles vaccine may be more immunogenic than other vaccine strains in young infants. A substantial proportion of ALRI could be prevented by increasing measles vaccine coverage and by the use of particular vaccine strains in younger children. 
Adrenal and ovarian steroid hormone responses to gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist treatment in polycystic ovary syndrome. It has been postulated that in polycystic ovary syndrome ovarian steroids can influence adrenal steroidogenesis. To test this hypothesis, basal and dexamethasone-suppressed-corticotropin-stimulated steroid hormone responses were compared among three groups of women before, during, and after gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist treatment for 3 months. The groups were characterized as follows: (1) women with polycystic ovary syndrome with high dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels (greater than 400 micrograms/dl), (2) women with polycystic ovary syndrome with normal dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels (less than 300 micrograms/dl), and (3) normal ovulatory women. In response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist, basal serum luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, estradiol, estrone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, androstenedione, and testosterone in all three groups were suppressed to similar levels. Basal serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels in the group with high levels declined, but they did not reach the normal, unaltered concentrations in the other two groups. Two subjects with polycystic ovary syndrome in this group with high levels, who showed the greatest declines in basal serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels (34%, 40%), also had evidence of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency before treatment, which was resolved by the end of treatment. In both groups with polycystic ovary syndrome, the increase in maximum incremental rise of dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels in response to a pharmacologic dose of corticotropin from a dexamethasone-suppressed baseline (adrenal androgen capacity) remained unaltered during gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist administration. We conclude that ovarian steroids may promote excessive adrenal androgen secretion in women with polycystic ovary syndrome, may induce 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency as a mechanism for adrenal involvement in some women with polycystic ovary syndrome, and do not influence adrenal androgen capacity. 
Responsiveness of patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma to tamoxifen. A Gynecologic Oncology Group study of second-line therapy in 105 patients. One hundred five patients with Stage III or IV epithelial ovarian cancer whose disease had persisted or recurred after primary surgery and first-line chemotherapy were given tamoxifen (20 mg orally twice daily) and evaluated for response. Eighteen percent of the patients responded: 10% demonstrated a complete response (CR) and 8% showed a partial response (PR). Thirty-eight percent of the patients had short-term disease stabilization. CR had a median duration of 7.5 months, with the longest lasting 17 months. For patients with PR or stable disease, the median duration of response was 3 months (maximum duration, 9 months). When estrogen receptors of tumor tissue from patients demonstrating CR were evaluated, eight of nine (89%) had elevated estrogen receptor levels. This contrasts with patients who had stable or progressive disease as only 59% of them had measurable estrogen receptors (P = 0.16). 
Mucosal IgA recognition of Helicobacter pylori 120 kDa protein, peptic ulceration, and gastric pathology. The gastric IgA response to Helicobacter pylori was examined in 100 dyspeptic patients by means of immunoblotting of supernatants from antral biopsy and gastric mononuclear cell cultures. 76 of 78 patients with chronic gastritis, 2 of 8 with reactive gastritis, and 1 of 14 subjects with normal mucosa showed positive responses. Of patients with chronic gastritis, 75%, 83%, 97% and 76%, respectively, showed responses to the 120 kDa, 90 kDa, 61 kDa, and 31 kDa proteins. None of the 19 patients with chronic gastritis who did not recognise the 120 kDa protein had peptic ulcers, whereas 25 of 57 with positive recognition had peptic ulcers (p less than 0.001). Mucosal recognition of the H pylori 120 kDa protein was also positively associated with the activity of gastritis (polymorph infiltration) (p less than 0.002) and with the extent of surface degeneration (p less than 0.01). These findings suggest that 120-kDa-positive strains of H pylori have pathogenic features associated with active gastritis and peptic ulceration. Infection with 120-kDa-negative strains may explain why peptic ulceration develops in only a proportion of subjects infected with H pylori. 
Meniscal tears: MR and arthrographic findings after arthroscopic repair. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was performed on 29 previously repaired menisci and one conservatively treated meniscus (total, 30 menisci). Intermediate- and T1-weighted MR sequences revealed persistent signal intensity extending to an articular surface (grade 3 signal intensity) in 27 of the 30 menisci. On T2-weighted images, seven of the 30 menisci were found to contain unequivocally higher signal intensity, defined by a full-thickness defect (grade 3 signal intensity involving two articular surfaces) increasing in signal intensity to a level equivalent to that of joint fluid. The MR imaging and arthrographic appearances of 23 of the 30 menisci were compared. Arthrographic examination revealed partial or complete healing in 13 menisci and tears in 10. The presence of grade 3 signal intensity on intermediate- and T1-weighted MR images did not reliably predict a tear seen at arthrography. Unequivocally higher signal intensity on T2-weighted images is a useful sign in the prediction of a persistent meniscal tear (sensitivity, 60%; specificity, 92%; P less than .02). Since presence of grade 3 signal intensity on intermediate- and T1-weighted images does not reliably predict a tear and unequivocal T2 increase in intensity has a sensitivity of only 60%, arthrography should be considered for assessment of the symptomatic, previously repaired meniscus. 
Reduced vascular compliance as a marker for essential hypertension. In 38 patients with established essential hypertension and 32 age-matched normotensive control subjects proximal and distal arterial compliance were determined by computer-based assessment of the diastolic decay of a brachial arterial tracing and a modified Windkessel model of the circulation. In the hypertensive subjects compared to the normotensive subjects mean arterial pressure was 25% higher (P less than .001), systemic vascular resistance 23% higher (P less than .01), proximal compliance 19% lower (P less than .01), and distal compliance 72% lower (P less than .001). The reduction in distal compliance was highly age-dependent. In the youngest age range (45 to 54 years) little overlap appeared between hypertensive and normotensive groups, whereas in the oldest subjects studied (65 to 75 years) distal compliance was comparably low in the two groups. Thus, distal vascular compliance provides a sensitive and specific marker for the abnormal vasculature associated with hypertension and may be particularly useful in identifying the disease in young individuals with borderline blood pressure. 
Intestinal injury after lumbar discectomy. In a review of 5,200 lumbar discectomies performed from 1974 to 1989, two patients sustained a ventral perforation of the disc space followed by isolated small intestinal injury. Both patients underwent lumbar discectomy at the lumbosacral junction and presented with signs and symptoms of acute abdominal distress within three days after the operation. At surgical laparotomy, small tears were noted in the ileum, which were closed primarily. The patients had an uneventful recovery. The results of a review of 11 instances reported in the literature suggest that isolated intestinal injuries usually occur postoperatively at the lumbosacral junction and involve the small intestine. Factors, such as body habitus, surgical experience, patient positioning and types of instruments, as well as the use of a surgical microscope, do not appear to modify the risk of intestinal injury. After discectomy, patients may present with acute abdominal signs and symptoms or chronic wound infections. Work-up studies include evaluation of vascular structures and ureters either roentgenographically or at abdominal exploration. A high index of suspicion and adequate disc space visualization during discectomy may reduce the incidence of this complication. 
Primary CNS lymphoma treated with osmotic blood-brain barrier disruption: prolonged survival and preservation of cognitive function. Combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy has had only modest efficacy in the treatment of primary CNS lymphoma. Median survival of these patients, treated primarily with radiotherapy, is 13 months; 5-year survival is less than 5%. Thirty consecutive non-acquired immune deficiency syndrome patients with primary CNS lymphoma were treated with barrier-dependent chemotherapy using intraarterial mannitol to open the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Follow-up included extensive neuropsychologic testing of all patients. Thirteen patients received cranial radiation 1 to 9 months before referral (group 1). Seventeen patients received initial BBB disruption chemotherapy with subsequent radiation only for tumor progression or recurrence (group 2). The difference in median survivals from diagnosis--17.8 months for group 1 and 44.5 months for group 2--was statistically significant (P = .039). Group 1 survival is comparable with the 20-month median survival of a historical series of patients (n = 208) treated with radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy. Group 2 patient survival represents an advance in the survival of CNS lymphoma and was associated with preservation of cognitive function in six of seven nonirradiated complete responders observed for 1 to 7 years. Patient toxicity was manageable in this intensive therapeutic regimen. In this series, a plateau in survival curves suggests that a major portion of these patients may be cured without the neuropsychologic sequelae associated with cranial radiation. 
Modulation of neuropathic pain behavior in rats by spinal disinhibition and NMDA receptor blockade of injury discharge. When a peripheral nerve is severed, damaged sensory fibers emit a barrage of impulses that lasts for many seconds, or even several minutes ('injury discharge'). We have shown in rats that local anesthetic blockade of this discharge suppresses autotomy (a behavioral model of neuropathic pain). Correspondingly, mimicking prolonged injury discharge with electrical stimulation, especially of C-fibers, increased autotomy. These data support the hypothesis that injury discharge plays a role in the triggering of neuropathic pain. The mechanism of triggering autotomy was investigated using intrathecal injection of agents affecting glutamatergic transmission. A single intrathecal injection at the lumbar enlargement of the NMDA receptor blockers MK-801 and 5-APV, just prior to neurectomy, significantly suppressed autotomy. Blocking glycinergic inhibition just prior to neurectomy with a single strychnine injection strikingly enhanced autotomy. Strychnine enhancement of autotomy was prevented by prior injection of MK-801 or 5-APV. These results suggest that the expression of autotomy in rats, and by inference neuropathic pain in humans, is affected by injury discharge, possibly mediated by long-lasting, NMDA receptor-related, spinal disinhibition. 
Plasmapheresis. A therapeutic option in the management of heparin-associated thrombocytopenia with thrombosis. Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HATT) is an uncommon syndrome that is estimated to occur in 1-5% of patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Early diagnosis requires careful clinical surveillance, and the management of these patients can be complex. Cessation of heparin therapy and substitution or addition of oral anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents, dextrans, and prostacyclin analogues have been advocated. The authors are aware of only two case reports in the literature that examine the use of plasmapheresis as a therapeutic alternative. The authors report a case of a 53-year-old white man who developed HATT after a single protamine-reversed exposure to heparin. Controlled platelet aggregation studies performed before and after apheresis sessions documented a dramatic response and rapid normalization of platelet number and function in the patient. The authors conclude that plasmapheresis could be a valuable adjunct in the successful management of patients with HATT. When done in conjunction with platelet aggregation studies, an objective measurement of therapeutic efficacy can be achieved. 
Interleukin-2 induces early multisystem organ edema mediated by neutrophils. Interleukin-2 (IL-2), an agent known to activate neutrophils (PMN) with thromboxane (Tx)B2 release, produces pulmonary edema within 6 hours of intravenous infusion. This study tests the role of PMN in mediating the edema. Anesthetized rats received 10(6)U recombinant human IL-2 (n = 15) or vehicle (n = 14) as a constant intravenous infusion during a period of 1 hour. At this time there was leukopenia 3.63 +/- 0.43 (x10(3)/mm3) relative to vehicle-infused control rats 6.12 +/- 0.86 and a decline in PMN, 2.19 +/- 0.14 relative to control value of 3.33 +/- 0.05 (both p less than 0.05). After 6 hours edema, as measured by increase in the wet to dry weight (W/d) ratio, was present in the lungs (4.93 +/- 0.20 relative to control 4.06 +/- 0.10), heart (4.09 +/- 0.11 versus 3.76 +/- 0.08), liver (3.50 +/- 0.10 versus 3.18 +/- 0.10), and kidney (4.25 +/- 0.07 versus 4.00 +/- 0.07) (all p less than 0.05). There was increased lung permeability demonstrated by bronchoalveolar lavage fluid protein concentration of 1970 +/- 210 micrograms/mL relative to control 460 +/- 90 micrograms/mL (p less than 0.05). Interleukin-2 resulted in lung PMN sequestration of 53 +/- 7 PMN/10 high-power fields (HPF) relative to 23 +/- 2 PMN/10 HPF in controls (p less than 0.05) and increased plasma TxB2 levels to 1290 +/- 245 pg/mL relative to control 481 +/- 93 pg/mL (p less than 0.05). Pretreatment of other rats (n = 8) with selective anti-rat neutrophil antiserum 18 hours before the experiment led to a peripheral PMN count 10% of baseline and prevented edema in the lungs (W/d ratio 4.20 +/- 0.16) and heart (3.67 +/- 0.07) (both p less than 0.05) but not liver or kidney. Protein in lung lavage was reduced to 760 +/- 220 micrograms/mL (p less than 0.05). The protection afforded by leukopenia was associated with lack of PMN sequestration and prevention of the increase in plasma Tx levels (484 +/- 120 pg/mL, p less than 0.05). These data indicate that the rapid induction of lung and heart edema with a 1-hour infusion of IL-2 in the rat is mediated, in large part, by activated PMNs. 
Effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on the incidence of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. To determine whether angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition may reduce the incidence of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), we retrospectively identified 322 consecutive patients who underwent a successful procedure from June 1988 to December 1989. No patients developed chest pain, ST segment elevation, positive cardiac enzymes, or other evidence of abrupt vessel closure following the PTCA. All patients received intravenous heparin after PTCA and aspirin was begun on the day prior to PTCA. Patients were separated into two groups: those at hospital discharge incidentally treated for hypertension or heart failure with ACE inhibitors (n = 36), and those treated with a drug regimen which did not include ACE inhibitors (n = 286). The two groups were similar with respect to age (61 +/- 13.5 vs. 60 +/- 12.5, p = NS) and other demographic characteristics. Restenosis, defined as the presentation to a physician with symptoms of angina within 6 months of the PTCA and the finding on repeat catheterization of a significant restenosis at the site of the PTCA, occurred in 30% of the patients who were discharged on a drug regimen which did not include ACE inhibitors vs. 3% (p less than .05) in those treated with an ACE inhibitor. Thus, it appears that the use of ACE inhibitors may significantly reduce the incidence of restenosis after successful PTCA. 
Nutritional support in the critically ill surgical patient. Aggressive nutritional support in the critically ill surgical patient is essential if improved outcome is to be realized. An understanding of the metabolic alterations of trauma and sepsis provides the foundation for a nutritional prescription for the individual patient. Careful nutritional assessment; titration of fluid, electrolytes, and micronutrients; provision of adequate calories and nitrogen to meet metabolic needs; and the selective use of specialized formulations are important components of nutritional management in the ICU. 
Patellofemoral pain. An arthroscopic perspective. Patellofemoral pain should be approached as thoroughly as any other musculoskeletal disease. A careful patient history and physical examination are mandatory. These are followed by appropriate imaging studies such as radiographs, bone scans, CT scans, CT arthrograms, and MRI, as each individual case demands. Finally, arthroscopy is employed in its proper sequence. This article has been developed as an attempt to define a classification scheme of anterior knee pain and then to narrow this down to pain localized to the patellofemoral joint. The authors have attempted to isolate further the clinical entities to those that can be diagnosed and treated arthroscopically. Arthroscopy and arthroscopic surgery allow recognition and treatment of these disorders with minimal invasiveness and patient morbidity. 
The elusive cause of instability in unstable angina. The causes of unstable angina are still largely unknown. However, some facts deriving from angiographic, postmortem, and pathophysiologic studies are well established. Angiographic findings: coronary thrombi and complicated stenoses are more frequent in unstable than in stable angina. Conversely, the severity of coronary atherosclerosis and the development of collateral circulation is similar in both coronary syndromes. Postmortem findings: the following features are more frequent in unstable than in stable angina: (1) mural thrombi, which often represent out-growth from the inside of a fissured plaque; (2) inflammatory cells at the site of plaques and in perivascular nerves; and (3) contraction bands in smooth muscle cells of the media surrounding plaques. However, fissured plaques can be found in 10% of individuals dying of noncardiac causes, and fissured plaque may occasionally be missing under the coronary thrombus in unstable angina. Pathophysiologic findings: patients with unstable angina compared with those with stable angina exhibit: (1) higher levels of serotonin in the coronary sinus; (2) higher systemic levels of fibrino-peptide A; (3) higher urinary levels of thromboxane A2 metabolites; and (4) a greater coronary reactivity to constrictor stimuli. A critical analysis of these established facts is required to set the stage for a better comprehension of the causes which can cause a coronary segment to progress in a stuttering way toward acute persistent coronary occlusion and myocardial infarction. Plaque fissure is likely to be an important background thrombogenic stimulus in many cases. 
Antitumor effect of synthetic derivatives of lipid A in an experimental model of colon cancer in the rat. Colon carcinoma is one of the most frequent causes of cancer death in industrialized countries. The patients generally die of the metastases. In a colon cancer rat model, the authors have shown that lipopolysaccharides from Escherichia coli induced the regression of carcinomatosis and cured 20%-30% of the rats. Some synthetic derivatives of lipid A, which are less toxic than lipopolysaccharides, were injected 14 days after the tumor cells. They induced the complete regression of peritoneal carcinomatosis consisting of numerous nodules measuring 1-5 mm in 20%-30% of rats. Only compounds with three or more hydroxymyristic acid residues were effective. In vivo effects were correlated with the capacity to induce the production of interleukin 1 and tumor necrosis factor but not with the capacity to induce macrophage-mediated cytolysis. It is therefore possible to synthesize weakly toxic derivatives of lipopolysaccharides retaining their antitumoral property in vivo. 
Diurnal variation of essential and physiological tremor. Evaluations were made of the diurnal variations of tremor power at rest, after fatigue and after mass loading, and plasma norepinephrine in patients with familial essential tremor and normal subjects. Diurnal tremor power rhythms for both essential and physiological tremor pursued identical temporal profiles. Plasma norepinephrine levels followed a congruent diurnal pattern with later peak values than the peak values of tremor power. Sympathetic nervous system activity is unlikely to be the cause of diurnal tremor power variation. The consistent diurnal rhythm of tremor power may affect dosage schemes of tremorolytic drugs. 
Measurement of in vivo urological tumour cell kinetics using multiparameter flow cytometry. Preliminary study. The in vivo labelling of urological tumour cells using the S phase marker bromodeoxyuridine (BRdU) for histochemical studies is reported. The use of multiparameter flow cytometry (FCM) with BRdU labelling to study tumour proliferation offers significant advantages. It provides simultaneous measurements of the DNA ploidy (DI), the duration of the S phase (Ts), the potential doubling time (Tpot) and the total and aneuploid tumour labelling indices (LI) from a single specimen. Heterogenous tumour cell populations can be measured with high sensitivity. We report a preliminary study to evaluate the method in the measurement of the kinetics of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (TCCB). Nineteen patients with TCCB, 1 with leukoplakia of the bladder, 2 with renal carcinoma, 1 with prostatic carcinoma and 1 with a squamous carcinoma of the penis were studied. Of the bladder tumours, 3 were aneuploid, DI = 1.32, 1.58 and 1.89. BRdU uptake was detected in all tumours. The median LI was 1.5% (range 0.5-10.0). In 15/19 tumours the labelling profile was satisfactory for calculation of the Ts and Tpot. The median Ts was 6.2 h and the median Tpot was 17.1 days. This study demonstrates that measurement of multiple parameters of urological tumour proliferation in vivo is possible. These parameters require further assessment as indices of biological aggressiveness and clinical prognosis. 
Effects of heart rate and pulmonary artery pressure on Doppler pulmonary artery acceleration time in experimental acute pulmonary hypertension. Chronic pulmonary hypertension in humans is characterized by shortening of the pulmonary artery acceleration time as measured by Doppler echocardiography, such that the higher the pulmonary artery pressure, the shorter the pulmonary acceleration time. Increases in heart rate are also known to produce decreases in the pulmonary artery acceleration time. To explore the relationship between mean pulmonary artery pressure, heart rate, and Doppler pulmonary artery acceleration time, experimental acute pulmonary hypertension was created in nine Duroc swine, either by infusion of Sephadex beads with embolization of the pulmonary arterial circulation or by partially occluding the main pulmonary artery 8 to 10 cm distal to the pulmonic valve. Pulmonary artery Doppler flow velocity recordings and invasive pressure measurements were made at baseline and at paced atrial rates ranging from 60 to 160 beats per minute, in 20-beat increments. The results in this acute animal model reveal that increases in heart rate produced significant decreases in Doppler pulmonary artery acceleration time at mean pressures below 25 mm Hg. However, with mean pulmonary artery pressures greater than 25 mm Hg, both heart rate and increases in pulmonary artery pressure had no significant effect on acceleration time. 
Recent developments in the diagnosis and management of patients with transient ischaemic attacks and minor ischaemic strokes. Appropriate management of the patient with transient focal neurological symptoms must start with accurate clinical diagnosis. Wider use of clear diagnostic criteria and symptom checklists, and better knowledge of the clinical features of the 'funny turns' which are not related to transient focal cerebral ischaemia could reduce the present variability in clinical diagnosis of transient ischaemic attacks. More accurate clinical diagnosis contributes to better selection of the most appropriate investigation strategy for each patient. A basic minimum standard of investigation is outlined and perhaps provides a suitable template for audit. Patients with transient ischaemic attacks which are definitely in the carotid distribution may be eligible for entry in trials of carotid endarterectomy. Prudent use of duplex ultrasound studies of the carotid arteries in patients with appropriate symptoms is an effective way to reduce the costs of investigations and their complications (i.e. the number of strokes associated with cerebral angiography). Digital venous subtraction angiography has, by comparison, many disadvantages as a screening tool. Advances in management include: recent statistical overviews which have emphasized the need to consider blood pressure and plasma cholesterol reduction in a large proportion of patients, and the value of long term anti-platelet therapy in reducing the risks of stroke, myocardial infarction and vascular death in both males and females. The value of anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation and transient ischaemic attacks or minor stroke is being tested in current trials. 
Total knee arthroplasty at a Veterans Administration Medical Center. Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) was evaluated in 256 consecutive knees in a Veterans Administration hospital. Patient satisfaction and the effect of intercurrent illness were studied in addition to standard clinical and roentgenographic parameters. Evaluation of results show the superiority of condylar knee designs. In general, TKA was successful with a high degree of patient satisfaction. 
Molecular mechanisms of tubulointerstitial hypertrophy and hyperplasia. Adult kidneys, which are principally composed of tubulointerstitium, do not normally regenerate or expand their working pool of functional cells at a very high rate. Loss of kidney tissue, however, can lead to some compensatory renal enlargement. The catalytic forces initiating such exchanges have not been fully articulated by current experimental endeavors. Increasing evidence, nevertheless, does suggest that factors other than simple changes in renal hemodynamics may be involved in this process. Different cellular elements in the tubulointerstitial microenvironment probably modulate changes in tubular enlargement or size through a complex cytokine network. Autocrine and paracrine stimulation of enlargement by different local growth factors also seem to play a pivotal role. After binding to cellular receptors, these factors activate signal transduction pathways resulting in expression of immediate early genes, which by themselves can synchronize the expression of subsequent genes through the medium of transacting factors. The renal enlargement response can also be modified by endocrine hormones that can activate such genes directly and/or stimulate other adjunctive processes, like receptor expression for the regional binding of growth factors. Furthermore, renal enlargement is under negative feedback of inhibitory factors like TGF beta. It is possible, for example, that special genes exist which are only expressed to arrest enlargement. It has been further suggested that activation of the Na+/H+ antiporter is a common denominator in renal enlargement. Recent findings, however, indicate that the activation of this antiporter is not always necessary, and might rather be a parallel event rather than a key phenomena in tubular enlargement. G0/G1 transition of tubular cells seems to involve similar factors in tubular hypertrophy and hyperplasia. The factors which are responsible for the final determination of the enlargement pattern (hypertrophy vs. proliferation) are unknown. The separation between hypertrophy and hyperplasia, although suggested by striking differences in cellular regulation, may be somewhat artificial, since responses leading to tubular enlargement also exist in circumstances where hyperplasia and hypertrophy are combined events. Recently it has been proposed that growth factors stimulate gluconeogenesis in proximal tubular cells producing hyperplasia, whereas factors inhibiting gluconeogenesis might induce hypertrophy. Whether the common pathway message of this intriguing hypothesis is correct still requires further validation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The feeding pharyngostomy: an alternative approach to enteral feeding. We present a six-year retrospective review of feeding pharyngostomies as performed in this department. The indications, technique and complications of this procedure are discussed. 
Arteriographic findings in EDTA chelation therapy on peripheral arteriosclerosis. In a randomized, double-blind, controlled study, 153 patients with claudication were each given either 20 infusions of Na2EDTA or 20 infusions of saline. Walking distances and ankle/brachial indices were measured before, during, and after treatment. In 30 patients, angiograms and transcutaneous oxygen tensions were obtained before, during, and after treatment. The patients' subjective evaluations of the effect of treatment were also recorded. It is concluded that EDTA chelation therapy has no effect in patients with intermittent claudication in the legs caused by arteriosclerosis. 
Mechanisms of hypertension in diabetes. Hypertension in insulin resistance states is generally attributed to hyperinsulinemia, with resulting increases in renal sodium retention and/or sympathetic nervous system activity. However, recent data from our laboratory suggest that cellular insulin resistance, rather than hyperinsulinemia per se, may lead to hypertension. The basic tenet proposed in this review is that the common mechanism involved in the development of hypertension in both type I and type II diabetes mellitus is a deficiency of insulin at the cellular level. Recent observations suggest that impaired cellular response to insulin predisposes to increased vascular smooth muscle (VSM) tone (the hallmark of hypertension in the diabetic state). For example, recently reported studies from our laboratory demonstrate that insulin in physiological doses attenuates the vascular contractile response to phenylephrine, serotonin, and potassium chloride. Thus, insulin appears to normally modulate (attenuate) VSM contractile responses to vasoactive factors, and insulin resistance should accordingly be associated with enhanced vascular reactivity. Abnormal VSM cell calcium [Ca2+]i homeostasis may be the nexus between insulin resistance and increased VSM tone. The genetically obese, hyperinsulinemic, insulin-resistant Zucker rat demonstrates increased vascular reactivity, reduced membrane Ca2(+)-ATPase activity, increased cellular Ca2+ levels, and a marked impairment in vascular smooth muscle Ca2+ efflux compared to lean controls. Insulin stimulates membrane Ca-ATPase, blocks Ca2+ currents, and Ca2(+)-driven action potentials. Thus, an insulin-resistant state as exists in the Zucker rat may be associated with increased Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent sarcolemmal Ca2+ channels and/or decreased production or activation of the VSM cell Ca-ATPase pump. 
Pyridostigmine used as a nerve agent pretreatment under wartime conditions. OBJECTIVE. To determine the adverse effects of pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide for nerve agent exposure during wartime. DESIGN. A retrospective study. SETTING. Southwest Asia. PARTICIPANTS. Personnel who provided medical support to the XVIII Airborne Corps. These medical officers supplied information pertaining to symptoms and disposition of 41,650 soldiers who received pyridostigmine at the onset of hostilities of Operation Desert Storm. INTERVENTION. Pyridostigmine bromide, 30 mg orally, was self-administered every 8 hours while under the threat of nerve agent attack (for 1 to 7 days). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE. Physiologic changes attributable to pyridostigmine that resulted in need for medical attention, discontinuation of the drug, hospitalization, and/or evacuation from Southwest Asia. RESULTS. About half of the population noted physiologic changes that were not incapacitating, such as increased flatus, abdominal cramps, soft stools, and urinary urgency. Approximately 1% of the soldiers believed they had effects that warranted medical attention, but fewer than 0.1% had effects sufficient to discontinue the drug. Nonincapacitating symptoms often occurred; however, military mission performance was not impaired. CONCLUSION. While under the threat of nerve agent attack, pyridostigmine can be administered to virtually all soldiers. 
Systemic effects of collagen-impregnated aortoiliac Dacron vascular prostheses on platelet activation and fibrin formation. To minimize intraoperative blood loss a watertight knitted Dacron aortoiliac prosthesis has been developed by impregnation with bovine collagen. A potential disadvantage is that collagen may be associated with an increase in thrombus formation. We conducted a prospective randomized trial to study the systemic effects of collagen-impregnated prostheses and of aortoiliac operation as such on the coagulation mechanism during the first 10 days after operation. Forty-one patients randomly received either a collagen-impregnated (n = 20) or a nonimpregnated prosthesis (n = 21). Twelve patients who underwent cholecystectomies served as controls. Three markers of the coagulation mechanism were monitored: beta-thromboglobulin, fibrinopeptide A, and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products. We found no significant differences in median beta-thromboglobulin, fibrinopeptide A, and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation product levels between patients in the collagen-impregnated prosthesis group and patients in the nonimpregnated prosthesis group. This indicates that collagen does not stimulate the coagulation cascade any more than conventional Dacron protheses do. In a comparison of patients who underwent aortoiliac reconstruction and patients who underwent cholecystectomies, the results indicated a significant increased platelet activation and fibrin metabolism in aortoiliac reconstruction group compared with the control group. Finally, we observed a significantly higher preoperative fibrin metabolism in patients with vascular disease than in control subjects. This difference is attributable to the high preoperative fibrin/fibrinogen degradation product values in patients with aortic aneurysms. 
Adenosine thallium 201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy. Pharmacologic coronary vasodilation as an adjunct to myocardial perfusion imaging has become increasingly important in the evaluation of patients with coronary artery disease, in view of the large number of patients who cannot perform an adequate exercise test or in whom contraindications render exercise inappropriate. Adenosine is a very potent coronary vasodilator and when combined with thallium 201 scintigraphy produces images of high quality, with the added advantages of a very short half-life (less than 10 seconds) and the ability to adjust the dose during the infusion, which may enhance safety and curtail the duration of side effects. The reported sensitivity and specificity of adenosine thallium 201 scintigraphy for the detection of coronary artery disease are high and at least comparable with imaging after exercise or dipyridamole administration. 
Inhibition of the metabolism of atrial natriuretic factor causes diuresis and natriuresis in chronic heart failure. Atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) is a peptide hormone secreted by the heart that is degraded in vivo by endopeptidase 24:11 (atriopeptidase). UK 69,578 is a novel atriopeptidase inhibitor that raises plasma levels of ANF in animals and normal volunteers, with associated diuresis and natriuresis. This study examines the effects of UK 69,578 in patients with mild heart failure. UK 69,578 was administered as an intravenous infusion over 20 min in a placebo-controlled, cross-over study to six patients with stable (NYHA Class 2) chronic heart failure. The atriopeptidase inhibitor was well tolerated and no side effects were encountered. Mean baseline plasma ANF was elevated at 88 pg/mL (normal less than 50), and increased 2- to 5-fold after UK 69,578 administration. Plasma ANF did not change significantly following placebo. There was a marked diuresis after UK 69,578 compared to placebo. Urinary sodium excretion doubled for 4 to 6 h, but there was no significant rise in potassium excretion. There was no increase in plasma active renin concentration during the study period. Noninvasive hemodynamic monitoring revealed no significant changes in heart rate, systemic arterial blood pressure, or echocardiographic left ventricular dimensions. However, invasive measurements using a Swan-Ganz catheter demonstrated falls in mean right atrial and pulmonary artery wedge pressures after UK 69,578. There was no change in cardiac output. Thus, inhibition of endopeptidase 24:11 by UK 69,578 results in significant elevation of plasma ANF, with associated diuresis, natriuresis and venodilatation. The compound was well tolerated in these patients with mild chronic heart failure. 
Follicular accentuation of leukocytoclastic vasculitis in an HIV-seropositive man. Report of a case and review of the literature. Palpable purpura in a follicular localization developed in association with acute epididymitis in a white man who was seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Biopsy specimens revealed a leukocytoclastic vasculitis with follicular accentuation. With antibiotic therapy the vasculitis resolved, but it recurred during repeated episodes of the epididymitis. Follicular accentuation of skin disease is often seen in HIV-seropositive patients. Leukocytoclastic vasculitis with a follicular localization may be the presenting skin manifestation of HIV infection. 
Clinical survey of ischemic cerebrovascular disease in children in a district of Japan. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease in children is relatively rare. To clarify the clinical features of ischemic stroke occurring in infants and children, we evaluated 54 cases of cerebral infarction, excluding cases of moyamoya disease, in patients less than 16 years old at 24 clinics in the Tohoku (northeast) district of Japan. We observed two incidence peaks, one in little children and the other in junior high school students. Infection and minor head trauma were more frequently seen prior to ischemic strokes than was heart disease. The middle cerebral artery region, including the basal ganglia, was most commonly affected (49 patients, 91%) on computed tomograms. Angiography was performed in 48 patients (89%) and showed various types of occlusive lesions, mostly affecting the middle cerebral artery. Hemiparesis was the most common form of disability following ischemic strokes (48 patients, 89%). Surgical treatment was carried out in seven patients (13%). The clinical course of these cases showed that the recovery of children after a stroke tends to be better than that of adults, but that permanent disabilities, such as hemiparesis or mental retardation, occur commonly. Further investigation of juvenile cerebrovascular disease is important to prevent ischemic strokes in children. 
Sinus parasystole. Sinus parasystole is the expression of a protected nondominant sinus pacemaker, which is totally independent of the dominant rhythm. Two forms of sinus parasystole are described: (1) an active form, where both the dominant and the parasystolic pacemakers are located within the sinus node and (2) a passive form, where the basic rhythm is ectopic and the sinus pacemaker is protected as a result of complete retrograde SA block. Three cases of sinus parasystole are analyzed. In the active form of the arrhythmia the parasystolic sinus P waves are identical to those of the basic sinus rhythm. The diagnosis is suggested by variably coupled premature sinus P waves occurring with mathematically related intervals. This relationship between the parasystolic intervals can not be precise whenever complicating factors such as modulation occur. The recognition of active sinus parasystole is difficult, since the parasystolic P waves do not differ from basic P waves, so that the pattern resembles that of sinus arrhythmia or sinus extrasystoles. The passive form of sinus parasystole is more easily recognized due to the clear-cut difference between the dominant ectopic atrial waves and the "parasystolic" sinus P waves, which manifest with variable coupling intervals and reflect mathematically related intervals in between. 
Familial pulmonary hypertension in association with an abnormal hemoglobin. Insights into the pathogenesis of primary pulmonary hypertension. A kindred with a familial hemoglobinopathy and familial primary pulmonary hypertension with autosomal dominant transmission has been identified. Affected family members were obvious from their cyanosis due to a reduced affinity for oxygen by the hemoglobin variant. The mother and one child had clinical pulmonary hypertension, whereas two siblings had cyanosis and preclinical pulmonary vascular disease as evidenced by abnormal perfusion lung scans and elevated levels of fibrinopeptide A in the face of normal pulmonary hemodynamics. In one, pulmonary hypertension could be induced with exercise. The studies on this family support the hypothesis that primary pulmonary hypertension may be initiated by abnormalities of the pulmonary vascular bed that predispose to in situ thrombosis. The possible common genetic transmission of the two diseases offers the speculation that the gene that confers predisposition to pulmonary hypertension may be located near the gene responsible for beta globulin. 
Three-dimensional x-ray computed tomography of the temporal bone as an aid to surgical planning. Three-dimensional x-ray computed tomography (3DCT) has been useful in planning surgical procedures involving craniofacial reconstruction, the pelvis, hip, spine, knee and shoulder. The clinical use of 3DCT in temporal bone surgery has not been evaluated. We used 3DCT to assess temporal bone anatomy in 9 patients. These cases evaluated two encephaloceles, two postinflammatory dehiscences, two temporal bone fractures, one glomus jugulare tumor, one acoustic neuroma, and one meningioma. We found 3DCT useful in these temporal bone applications as a supplement to standard two-dimensional CT scanning (2DCT). While 3DCT provided a better preoperative understanding of the underlying anatomy, no treatment was modified solely on the basis of the information derived from the 3-D presentation of data. We conclude that, although 3DCT images have some qualitative advantages over 2DCT techniques, their value in further defining temporal bone morphology must be evaluated against the cost entailed by their use. 
Structural alterations of microvascular smooth muscle cells in reduced renal mass hypertension. Loss of microvessels (anatomic rarefaction) occurs in chronic reduced renal mass (RRM) hypertension and is mediated via structural degeneration of vascular smooth muscle (VSM) and endothelial cells. The purpose of the present study was to determine if structural changes occur in VSM cells of the microvessels that remain in the tissue of rats with chronic RRM hypertension. Samples of cremaster muscles were taken from normotensive control rats and rats with acute (3-7 days) and chronic (14-28 days) RRM hypertension (75% reduction in kidney mass with 4% NaCl loading). The samples were fixed in situ and processed for light and electron microscopy. Ultrastructural morphology of VSM cells in terminal arterioles of control animals was normal. Although VSM morphology in many microvessels of RRM hypertensive rats was also normal, some vessels exhibited structural changes that were not present in arterioles of the normotensive animals. The most striking change was the appearance of more extensive dense bodies anchoring the contractile filaments around the outer membrane of the cells. Extreme vasoconstriction was observed in some arterioles of RRM rats as long as 2 weeks after salt loading. Focal areas of VSM cell proliferation were evident. Many of the changes occurring in RRM were detected as early as 1 week after the onset of hypertension. These observations suggest that renal mass reduction-salt loading hypertension is associated with early structural and functional changes in the VSM cells. 
Increased platelet aggregate formation in patients with chronic airflow obstruction and hypoxaemia. Platelet aggregate formation in vivo was assessed by means of the platelet aggregate ratio and from platelet release products (beta thromboglobulin, platelet factor 4, thromboxane B2) in 23 patients with chronic airflow obstruction with and without hypoxaemia and in 10 control subjects without respiratory disease. Eight of the 11 hypoxaemic patients were having long term oxygen therapy. The platelet aggregate ratio was lower in the hypoxaemic patients (0.88 (SE 0.03] than in the non-hypoxaemic (0.97 (0.01] and control groups (1.00 (0.02], and there was a trend to lower aggregate ratios in the more hypoxaemic patients. Platelet release products in the peripheral venous blood were not increased in the patients or control subjects. Platelet behaviour is altered in chronic hypoxaemia and this enhanced platelet activity could contribute to the pulmonary vascular damage found in these patients through direct effects or mediator release. 
Noncardiac chest pain in patients with heart disease. This is a retrospective study of cardiac patients with noncardiac chest pain referred for evaluation of esophageal motility. Sixty-eight patients with heart disease were compared with 210 patients without heart disease according to findings from symptom questionnaires and a psychologic test (Brief Symptom Inventory). More than 70% of each group qualified for an anxiety or depressive diagnosis on the symptom questionnaire. These diagnoses were supported by significant elevations of scores on the anxiety and depression scales of the Brief Symptom Inventory. Male gender and a diagnosis of panic disorder occurred significantly more often in the patients with heart disease. "Stress" was cited as the cause of illness in about half the sample, but this led to less than satisfactory rates of psychiatric evaluation or pharmacotherapy. This is of particular concern for the cardiac patients because of the known adverse effect of anxiety and depression in those with heart disease. 
Sleep apnea in patients with acute myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE: To document sleep apnea in the acute phase of myocardial infarction. If apnea occurs in patients with myocardial infarction, hypoxemia induced by apnea might exaggerate insufficiency of oxygen supplied to the damaged myocardium. DESIGN: Prospective controlled study. SETTING: Critical care unit of a teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Forty-nine patients, average age 64 yrs (range 49 to 91). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patient measurements were recorded on a polygraph using an apnea-monitor, pulse oximeter, pulmonary artery pressure monitor, and an ECG. All of the patients observed showed frequent apneic episodes. The apnea was especially frequent when the cardiac index was low. Capillary oxygen saturation of less than 90% (suggesting systemic hypoxia) was observed in 21 patients concomitantly with apnea. Occasionally, arrhythmias followed these episodes (premature supraventricular contractions [n = 10], premature ventricular contraction [n = 4], and ventricular tachycardia [n = 2]). CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that sleep apnea is common in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. It may be a factor predisposing to, or even causing, sudden death in patients with acute phase of myocardial infarction. 
Cholecystokinin cholescintigraphy: detection of abnormal gallbladder motor function in patients with chronic acalculous gallbladder disease. CCK cholescintigrams were performed in 374 patients with recurrent postprandial right upper quadrant pain, biliary colic, and a normal gallbladder sonogram and/or cholecystogram. The results of these examinations were correlated with the patients' final medical/surgical diagnoses. Twenty-seven patients recruited as control volunteers without objective clinical evidence of biliary disease also underwent CCK cholescintigraphy to determine if the degree of gallbladder contraction post-CCK differs in symptomatic versus asymptomatic subjects. Decreased gallbladder motor function was identified (maximal gallbladder ejection fraction response to CCK less than 35%) in 94% of patients with histopathologically confirmed chronic acalculous cholecystitis or the cystic duct syndrome and in 88% of patients clinically believed to have chronic acalculous biliary disease. Decreased gallbladder motor function does not distinguish symptomatic from asymptomatic gallbladder disease. 
Prevalence of lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] excess in coronary artery disease. Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] is composed of 1 low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle, to which 1 molecule of apolipoprotein (a) is covalently linked. Elevated levels of Lp(a) have been associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) and Lp(a) has been shown to be highly heritable. Our purpose was to determine the prevalence of familial Lp(a) excess in patients with CAD. We determined plasma levels of Lp(a) in 180 patients (150 men and 30 women) with angiographically documented CAD before age 60 years, and in 459 control subjects (276 men and 183 women) clinically free of cardiovascular disease. In addition, Lp(a) levels were determined in families of 102 of the CAD probands (87 men and 15 women). No gender differences in Lp(a) levels were observed between men and women (patients or control subjects). Patients with CAD had higher Lp(a) levels than did control subjects (19 +/- 21 vs 13 +/- 15 mg/dl, p less than 0.001). The prevalence of Lp(a) excess (defined as greater than 90th percentile of controls) was 17% in patients with CAD (p less than 0.05). Lp(a) levels were not correlated with cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol or apolipoproteins A-I or B. There was a weak correlation between Lp(a) and triglycerides (r = 0.166, p less than 0.05) in patients and control subjects. Stepwise discriminant analysis revealed that Lp(a) was a risk factor for the presence of CAD in men, independent of smoking, hypertension, diabetes, LDL and HDL cholesterol, or apolipoprotein A-I and B levels. Family studies revealed that Lp(a) levels are strongly genetically determined. 
Rubella prevention. Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP). These revised Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP) recommendations for the prevention of rubella update the previous recommendations (MMWR 1984;33:301-10,315-8) to include implementation of a new two-dose schedule for measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine. Current information about vaccine effectiveness, duration of immunity, vaccination in pregnancy, and progress in controlling congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) is also included. 
Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis B screening in a mental health institution. In 1982, the Ohio Department of Health Screening established guidelines for hepatitis B screening and vaccination for intermediate mental health care facilities. The present study was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of these guidelines. Data from an intermediate mental health care institution in Champaign/Urbana, Illinois, were used. The analysis considered the direct costs and benefits accrued over a 3-year period and a range of transmission rates. At a 3-year transmission rate of 0.030, the screening and vaccination policy cost $7300 per case of hepatitis B avoided (or $345,800 per hepatitis B fatality avoided). At a more likely 3-year transmission rate of 0.271, the screening and vaccination policy cost $300 per case of hepatitis B avoided (or $12,100 per hepatitis B fatality avoided). Either way, the active prevention policy compares very well with the amounts of money spent by the US Government on other life-saving programs. A general cost-effectiveness model is given that can be adapted for institution-specific analyses at other mental health care facilities. 
Complete repair of atrioventricular septal defect. We report our experience with 103 consecutive children who underwent repair of complete atrioventricular septal defect between 1971 and 1990. Ninety-one patients were less than 18 months old (mean age, 6.2 months; mean weight, 5.8 kg) and were repaired using deep hypothermia and circulatory arrest. There were 15 perioperative deaths. Twelve patients were older (mean age, 40.2 months; mean weight, 18.9 kg) and were repaired using moderate hypothermia and cardiopulmonary bypass. There were two perioperative deaths. Repairs were performed with the single-patch technique. Four younger patients required repeat repair to control residual mitral regurgitation. Two of the older children required late reoperation to replace one or both atrioventricular valves. Three younger children underwent pulmonary artery banding initially; 1 died after complete repair. Three older children underwent initial pulmonary artery banding; 2 died at definitive repair, and the survivor required pulmonary artery reconstruction, which was repeated subsequently. Since 1977 our policy has been to perform primary definitive repair whenever possible. Two patients died late from unrelated causes. At the most recent follow-up the majority of patients had no or minimal symptoms. We continue to advocate primary definitive repair whenever possible using the single-patch technique in symptomatic patients with complete atrioventricular septal defect. 
Crohn's disease of the small bowel. Crohn's disease is a perplexing panintestinal disease whose etiology is unknown. Symptoms and complications vary greatly from patient to patient. Despite the fact that no cure exists, thoughtful, well-planned therapy and appropriate timely intervention, where needed, can result in maintenance of a high quality of life for affected patients. 
Ballistic trauma to the abdomen: shell fragments versus bullets. Two-hundred ninety-nine patients who sustained penetrating ballistic trauma to the abdomen were divided into two groups: Group A consisted of 133 patients with shell fragment injuries from mortar artillery and Group B of 166 patients with bullet injuries from rifles and automatic or semiautomatic weapons. Both groups were analyzed retrospectively in order to compare the extent of injury and outcome. In Group A, the findings at laparotomy were negative in 15 of 133 patients (10%) compared with 9 of 166 patients (5%) in Group B (p less than 0.05). The most commonly injured abdominal organs in Group A were the colon (42%), liver (22%), small bowel (20%), stomach (14%), diaphragm (11%), spleen (10%), major vessels (9%), and kidney (9%). The abdominal organs commonly injured in Group B were the colon (50%), small bowel (41%), liver (33%), major vessels (20%), diaphragm (17%), stomach (15%), spleen (15%), and kidney (15%). Associated extra-abdominal injuries were present in 26% of Group A patients and in 21% of Group B patients (p less than 0.05). Major postoperative complications occurred in 7.5% and 8.4% of the patients in Group A and Group B, respectively (p less than 0.05). Perioperative mortality was 2.3% in Group A versus 7.2% in Group B (p less than 0.01). Our data suggest that high energy bullets to the abdomen cause higher tissue penetration and a greater blast effect than shell fragments. 
Recurrent aphthous ulcers in association with HIV infection. Description of ulcer types and analysis of T-lymphocyte subsets. This study was conducted to characterize the recurrent aphthous ulcers (RAU) found in association with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, to examine evidence for increased severity of the ulcers with HIV disease, and to determine whether increased severity is associated with abnormalities of peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets. Seventy-five HIV-seropositive patients with RAU were followed for up to 2 years, and lymphocyte subsets were analyzed in 42. Minor, herpetiform, and major ulcer types were seen, but unexpectedly, 66% of the patients had the usually uncommon herpetiform and major types. These types were temporally associated with symptomatic HIV disease. Patients with major RAU were significantly more immunosuppressed than those with minor or herpetiform RAU in that they had fewer CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes (p less than 0.05). The lesion of RAU is considered to represent a local breakdown in immunoregulation. The systemic immune imbalance seen with HIV disease may amplify the local defect and lead to more severe ulcers. 
Formation of neutralizing antibodies against natural interferon-beta, but not against recombinant interferon-gamma during adjuvant therapy for high-risk malignant melanoma patients. In an adjuvant clinical trial, 34 high-risk malignant melanoma patients were treated with natural interferon (IFN)-beta and recombinant IFN-gamma. Patients with tumor location on head, neck, and trunk received 3 million IU IFN-beta intravenously (IV) three times weekly for 24 weeks. Patients with tumor location on the extremities received subcutaneous (SC) injection of 2 million IU of IFN-beta distal the locoregional lymph nodes instead. All patients were given 50 micrograms IFN-gamma SC on 3 consecutive days every 4 weeks. Antibody formation was detected by coincubation of IFN and patients' serum and assessment of the inhibition of the cytopathic effect by a virus suspension. Soluble interleukin-2 receptors (sIL-2R) were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique. No antibodies against IFN-gamma were observed. The overall incidence of antibody formation to IFN-beta was 55.8% (19/34). Ninety-two percent of the SC-treated patients (13/14) and 30% (six of 20) of the IV-treated patients developed antibodies. Soluble interleukin-2 receptors were found to be significantly lower in antibody-positive patients than in antibody-negative patients. The authors conclude that IFN-beta antibody formation is frequent and might influence IFN induced sIL-2R elevation in vivo. 
Repair of coarctation of the aorta in children: postoperative morphology. To determine the morphologic sequelae after surgical repair of coarctation of the aorta, the authors retrospectively reviewed angiograms and hemodynamic and clinical data on 215 patients who underwent cardiac catheterization after surgical repair of coarctation of the aorta during a 13-year period. Ninety-seven patients (45%) underwent coarctation resection with end-to-end anastomosis; 92 (43%), subclavian-flap angioplasties; and 26 (12%), synthetic-patch repairs. Sixty-four patients (30%) had an "aneurysm," defined as a measurement ratio of repair site to diaphragmatic aorta greater than 1.5. Transverse-arch or isthmic hypoplasia or recoarctation was detected in 86 patients (40%) and was most commonly associated with septal defects or obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. Pullback systolic pressure gradients at catheterization were significantly higher (P = .0001) in the patients with transverse-arch hypoplasia and recoarctation than in those with ratios of transverse arch to diaphragmatic aorta greater than 0.9. Significant postoperative arch obstructions can be predicted with measurement ratios on the basis of the diameter of the abdominal aorta. 
Can transcutaneous recordings detect gastric electrical abnormalities? The ability of transcutaneous recordings of gastric electrical activity to detect gastric electrical abnormalities was determined by simultaneous measurements of gastric electrical activity with surgically implanted serosal electrodes and cutaneous electrodes in six patients undergoing abdominal operations. Transient abnormalities in gastric electrical activity were seen in five of the six patients during the postoperative period. Recognition of normal gastric electrical activity by visual analysis was possible 67% of the time and with computer analysis 95% of the time. Ninety four per cent of abnormalities in frequency were detected by visual analysis and 93.7% by computer analysis. Abnormalities involving a loss of coupling, however, were not recognised by transcutaneous recordings. Transcutaneous recordings of gastric electrical activity assessed by computer analysis can usually recognise normal gastric electrical activity and tachygastria. Current techniques, however, are unable to detect abnormalities in electrical coupling. 
Cocultures: a new lead in embryo quality improvement for assisted reproduction. One of the contributory causes to poor PRs in assisted reproduction has been the decreased viability of transferred embryos and the transfer of four-cell embryos into an environment that naturally would be receptive only to 5-day-old blastocysts. In this paper, we have reviewed our own work and that of others on the role of tubal ampullary cells (cocultures) to mimic the in vivo environment to bring about improved embryo quality and an increased number of blastocysts for replacement in IVF patients. The establishment, maintenance, and behavior of human tubal cell lines is first presented, followed by their use as cocultures for fertilization and cleavage of embryos. The mode of action, specificity, and cryopreservation of ampullary cells are also discussed. The currently available results of pregnancies after cocultures are presented together with future aspects of research that are necessary to refine the coculture system. The ultimate aim is to mimic in vivo conditions in vitro, so that at least the PRs of assisted conception can be parallel to normal fecundity in the human. Therefore, a very attractive future includes the freezing of blastocysts generated from coculture, thawing, and replacing them in natural cycles. 
Mathematical modeling of antigen and immune complex kinetics during extracorporeal removal of autoantibody. The extracorporeal removal of circulating auto-antibodies by repeated plasma exchange or continuous lymph drainage is modeled by single-pool kinetics. Total amounts of antigenic determinants, k-valent antibodies and immune complexes are variables of the model. Factors influencing the course of therapy are included: production rate of antigen and antibody and their natural catabolism. This model can give useful formulae for clinical practice. The effect of treatment can be predicted from the relative depletion of antibody and the actual severity of the disease. Another formula shows how the changed catabolism of antigen after antibody binding can influence the amount of immune complexes. As an example, lymph drainage in myasthenia gravis is calculated using averaged data from three patients. 
Colonic fermentation of dietary fibre to short chain fatty acids in patients with adenomatous polyps and colonic cancer. Short chain (C2-C6) fatty acids are produced in the colon through bacterial fermentation of mainly dietary fibre. Butyrate (C4) possesses antineoplastic effects on human colon carcinoma cells, and epidemiological studies indicate that high fibre diets may reduce the incidence of colorectal cancer. The role of dietary fibre during colorectal carcinogenesis might therefore be related to its fermentation to butyrate. Faecal concentrations of total short chain fatty acids and concentrations and ratios of the individual C2-C6 fatty acids did not differ between 16 healthy controls, 17 patients with colonic adenomas, and 17 patients with colonic cancer. Comparison of the molar production velocities (mmol/l.hour) of total and individual short chain fatty acids from glucose, ispagula, wheat bran, and albumin in six and 24 hour faecal incubations showed no differences. The ratio of butyrate production to total short chain fatty acid production from fibre, however, was reduced in patients with colonic cancer and adenomas compared with healthy controls (ispagula, six hours: 6.4, 7.6, and 11.5% respectively, p = 0.005 and 24 hour: 9.1, 9.9, and 15.4%, p = 0.002; wheat bran, six hours: 9.9, 10.2, and 14.7% respectively, p = 0.06 and 24 hours: 15.1, 16.8, and 21.0%, p = 0.01). It may be that the low ratios of colonic butyrate formation combined with low fibre diets increase the risk of colonic neoplasia. 
The natural history of HELLP syndrome: patterns of disease progression and regression. Despite much recent interest in HELLP syndrome (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count), there is little published information about the natural history of this unique form of severe preeclampsia-eclampsia. The time course and pattern of laboratory abnormalities for 158 patients with HELLP syndrome managed in a single tertiary referral center between 1980 and 1989 were studied retrospectively. Despite considerable patient variation, most gravid women with HELLP syndrome had decreasing platelet counts until 24 to 48 hours after delivery. Conversely, lactate dehydrogenase concentrations usually peaked 24 to 48 hours post partum. In all patients who recovered, a platelet count greater than 1,000,000/mm3 was spontaneously achieved by the sixth postpartum day or within 72 hours of platelet nadir. An upward trend in platelet count and a downward trend in lactate dehydrogenase concentrations should be apparent in patients without complications by the fourth postpartum day. These data provide baseline information against which the course of individual patients can be compared and the infrequent, atypical case identified for interventive therapy. 
Splenosis: an unusual cause of intraabdominal hemorrhage. A 31-year-old female presented to the emergency department with an acute onset of severe abdominal pain. She developed hypovolemic shock from an intra-abdominal bleed. At laparotomy she was found to be bleeding from two areas of splenosis on the uterine ligament. The patient had sustained a ruptured spleen 22 years prior and had no symptomatology from her areas of splenosis. A short review of splenosis is presented. 
Immunohematologic characteristics of infection-associated cerebral infarction. We evaluated 50 consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke to assess the prevalence of systemic infection preceding the neurological event. We analyzed the immunohematologic characteristics of patients with and without signs and/or symptoms of a preceding infectious process. Patients were examined less than or equal to 7 days after cerebral infarction and evaluated for fibrinogen, anticardiolipin antibodies, fibrin D-dimer (a fragment of cross-linked fibrin), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, and protein S. Of the 50 patients, 17 had symptoms of infection beginning less than or equal to 1 month before the stroke (11 had upper respiratory tract infections, three urinary tract infections, two subacute bacterial endocarditis, and one pneumonia). Compared with patients without infection, patients with infection had significant increases in fibrin D-dimer concentration (5.3 +/- 1.1 versus 4.7 +/- 0.9 log-transformed ng/ml, p less than 0.05) and cardiolipin immunoreactivity, IgG isotype (1.8 +/- 1.3 versus 1.1 +/- 0.9 log-transformed phospholipid units, p less than 0.04), and, when studied less than or equal to 2 days after the stroke, increased fibrinogen levels (459 +/- 126 versus 360 +/- 94 mg/dl, p less than 0.05). In conclusion, infection-associated cerebral infarction is common and is associated with substantial immunohematologic abnormalities. 
Postphlebitic syndrome and general surgery: an epidemiologic investigation. Of a random sample comprising 4581 subjects from The Copenhagen County, 3608 (79%) attended an interview and a general health examination. The subjects were defined as suffering from subjective postphlebitic syndrome if they claimed of lower extremity pain or cramps at rest and from objective postphlebitic syndrome if varicose veins, edema, lower extremity ulcers, or skin changes were present. By means of logistic regression analysis, subjective postphlebitic syndrome was found independently associated with previous thromboembolism, obesity, increasing age, female sex, hormonal therapy, varicose veins, and previous major abdominal surgery. Objective postphlebitic syndrome was associated with previous thromboembolism, obesity, former birthgiving, and high social status. The findings support the view that subclinical deep venous thrombosis in connection with previous surgery may give rise to symptoms in the lower extremities. 
Acute antihypertensive and renal effects of isradipine in hypertensive patients with normal and reduced renal function. The renal effects of a single oral dose of placebo v a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, isradipine, were investigated in 12 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. Six patients (group A) had normal creatinine concentrations greater than 1.6 mg/dL. Patients maintained a constant daily intake of approximately 120 mmol of sodium and 50 mmol of potassium. Measurements were taken at 30, 60, and 90 min after drug administration. Results indicated that isradipine at a dose of 5 mg once daily produced significant antihypertensive and renal responses. In conclusion, there is therapeutic benefit with isradipine independent of the status of renal function. 
Pathophysiology of renovascular hypertension. Renovascular hypertension has its experimental counterpart in the two-kidney, one clip model (Goldblatt hypertension). From the study of this model, a general pathophysiological scheme has evolved suggesting that temporal stages in the development and maintenance of hypertension are regulated by complicated hormonal and neural interrelations. The central roles played by the renin-angiotensin system and the renal nerves is discussed as they relate to other hormones. In addition, the possible contribution of converting enzyme inhibitors to understanding the pathophysiology of this condition is discussed. 
Observation of the external aperture of the vestibular aqueduct using three-dimensional surface reconstruction imaging. Observation of the external aperture of the vestibular aqueduct was hitherto possible only in cadavers or dry temporal bones; however, by applying three-dimensional surface reconstruction imaging, it is now possible to observe solid-looking images of this structure in living humans. When the width of the external aperture of the vestibular aqueduct was measured in 58 people, it was found to be significantly narrower in the affected ears of patients with Meniere's disease than in normal ears. 
Bright pleural effusion and ascites on gradient-echo MR images: a potential source of confusion in vascular MR studies. Motion of fluids other than blood can cause flow-related signal enhancement on MR images, including MR angiograms. In order to study this problem, the appearance of ascites (20 patients) and pleural effusions (five patients) was assessed on MR images made during suspended respiration with flow-compensated gradient-echo sequences as well as T1- and T2-weighted sequences. Signal intensities of vessels, fluid collections, and muscle were measured and vessel/muscle and vessel/fluid contrast were calculated. Fluid motion was measured with a bolus tracking technique that tags a selected volume of fluid with an RF presaturation. Fluid collections had a bright signal in four of five patients with pleural effusion and in 15 of 20 patients with ascites. The average contrast ratio between bright components of the fluid collections and vessels was only 0.03 +/- 0.09. Bright fluid collections were seen on MR angiograms and could obscure blood vessels. Bolus tracking measurements of ascites revealed multidirectional flow, suggesting that its bright signal is related to motion that continues during suspended respiration. Fluid collections appeared dark on T1-weighted images in all patients, indicating that a short T1 relaxation time was not a cause of the high signal intensity. The results indicate that, despite breath-holding, ascites and pleural effusions can show bright signal intensity on gradient-echo images. Awareness of this phenomenon will avoid confusion between moving fluid collections and flowing blood and identify a source of image degradation on both gradient-echo and T2-weighted spin-echo MR acquisitions. 
Alpha 2-macroglobulin is not an acute-phase protein in the rat testis. Earlier studies from this laboratory have shown that Sertoli cells actively synthesize and secrete a nonspecific protease inhibitor in vitro; N-terminal sequence analysis, subunit structural analysis, and other biological studies revealed that this protein is the homolog of serum alpha 2-macroglobulin. We have now quantified the relative distribution of alpha 2-macroglobulin in the reproductive compartments and their comparison with nonreproductive organs. In serum and all nonreproductive tissues examined, the concentration of alpha 2-macroglobulin progressively decreased with advancing age. However, in both the testis and epididymis, the levels of this protein increased with the age of the animals. Serum alpha 2-macroglobulin levels were consistently higher than those in any other tissues until 60 days when the concentrations of this protein were the highest in the epididymis. The distribution of alpha 2-macroglobulin in various nonreproductive tissues from female rats was similar to that observed for male rats in that its levels tended to decrease with age. However, uterine levels of alpha 2-macroglobulin increased progressively with advancing age, whereas ovarian levels of alpha 2-macroglobulin remained relatively stable with an increase in animal age. As serum alpha 2-macroglobulin is an acute-phase protein in the rat, the response of this protein in the testis to induced inflammation was examined. The concentration of alpha 2-macroglobulin in serum rose about 150-fold after injection of fermented yeast. By contrast, the levels of this protein in rete testis fluid, which is derived exclusively from seminiferous fluid, did not change in response to inflammation. These results suggest that there might be distinctive mechanisms that regulate this protein in the systemic circulation vs. the microenvironment behind the blood-testis barrier in the seminiferous epithelium. 
Pulmonary hypertension and polymorphonuclear leukocyte elastase after esophageal cancer operations. To evaluate the role of polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) elastase in pulmonary impairment occurring after operation for esophageal cancer, 10 patients were randomized preoperatively into two equal groups. One group received a placebo infusion and the other, an infusion of the PMN elastase inhibitor ulinastatin. In the placebo group, the mean plasma PMN elastase level increased from 154 +/- 23 micrograms/L preoperatively to 449 +/- 56 micrograms/L at 6 hours postoperatively (p less than 0.01), whereas the mean plasma fibronectin concentration decreased from 490 +/- 70 micrograms/mL preoperatively to 265 +/- 81 micrograms/L on postoperative day 2 (p less than 0.01). The mean pulmonary vascular resistance increased markedly from 151 +/- 24 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 preoperatively to 284 +/- 76 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 at 6 hours postoperatively (p less than 0.01). In the group given ulinastatin, 150,000 units every 12 hours from the start of the operation, the mean PMN elastase value at 6 hours postoperatively was lower (275 +/- 66 micrograms/L; p less than 0.01) and the fibronectin level on postoperative days 1 and 2, higher (p less than 0.05). A lower pulmonary vascular resistance was noted into day 2 (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that PMN elastase may participate in the development of postoperative pulmonary impairment. 
Echocardiographic demonstration of decreased left ventricular dimensions and vigorous myocardial contraction during syncope induced by head-up tilt. Two-dimensional echocardiography was performed during a head-up tilt test in 11 control subjects (group I) and 18 patients with recurrent unexplained syncope. In four patients (group II), the head-up tilt test was negative at baseline and after isoproterenol infusion. Syncope was induced during baseline head-up tilt in nine patients (group III) and after isoproterenol challenge in five (group IV). The echocardiographic variables assessed were left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic areas and percent fractional shortening. At the end of head-up tilt, end-systolic area decreased by 4.5 +/- 1.3 and 3.0 +/- 1.2 cm2 in groups III and IV, respectively, compared with 0.5 +/- 0.7 and 0.2 +/- 0.1 cm2 in groups I and II, respectively (p less than 0.04). Similarly, end-diastolic area decreased by 5.5 +/- 2.6 cm2 in group III compared with 2.7 +/- 1.9 and 1.75 +/- 0.4 cm2 in group I and II, respectively (p less than 0.04). Additionally, at the end of the baseline study, fractional shortening was significantly greater in group III and group IV (43 +/- 5%) than in groups I and II (p less than 0.01). In conclusion, syncope induced by head-up tilt is associated with vigorous myocardial contraction and a significant decrease in left ventricular end-systolic dimensions. This left ventricular hypercontractility may play an important role in the pathogenesis of syncope induced by head-up tilt. 
Hepatitis B and C viruses and their interaction in the origin of hepatocellular carcinoma. Serum taken from patients in a case-control study in Athens, Greece, was used to examine the interactive roles of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) in the origin of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). An enzyme immunoassay for anti-HCV was used to test serum taken from 185 cases with HCC, 35 cases with metastatic liver cancer (MLC), and 432 hospital controls. Weakly positive anti-HCV results were more strongly related to MLC than to HCC, implying that these anti-HCV results are false positive. By contrast, strongly positive anti-HCV results were significantly related to HCC (relative risk [RR], 6.3), whereas no significant association was evident for MLC (RR, 0.6). The association of anti-HCV with HCC was substantially higher among subjects whose radioimmunoassay was positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (RR, 20.0) than among those whose radioimmunoassay was negative for this marker (RR, 4.8). These findings indicate that HCV infection has an interactive role in the origin of HCC. 
Multiple myeloma: increased circulating lymphocytes carrying plasma cell-associated antigens as an indicator of poor survival. In multiple myeloma (MM) an increase in circulating lymphocytes expressing plasma cell-associated antigens (PCAA) has been described. Its prognostic significance was evaluated in this study. The immunologic phenotype of peripheral blood lymphocytes was analyzed with a panel of monoclonal antibodies specific for B, T, natural killer lymphocytes, and PCAA (CD38, PCA1) in 52 MM patients at diagnosis, remission, and during relapse, 18 monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), and 25 normal controls. No significant phenotypic alteration was observed in MGUS. In MM, the number of B lymphocytes was in the normal range at diagnosis and during the subsequent phases. A CD4/CD8 ratio decrease, during relapse, was due to both a CD4+ reduction and to an expansion of a subset of CD8+ activated suppressor lymphocytes. CD38+ and PCA1+ lymphocytes at diagnosis were significantly higher than in MGUS, and a further increase was observed during relapse, suggesting a correlation between PCAA expression and disease activity. The prognostic significance of increased PCAA was confirmed by a survival analysis of 32 patients evaluated at diagnosis using a CD38 cutoff of 0.45 x 10(9)/L positive lymphocytes. Median survival for patients with high values was only 14 months, whereas it was not reached at 32 months by those with low values (P less than .0007). 
Giant cell arteritis presenting as limb claudication. Report and review of the literature. Upper limb claudication and pulselessness is an uncommon presentation of giant cell arteritis (GCA), often resulting in delayed diagnosis. We describe such a case diagnosed by angiography, in which a temporal artery biopsy showed classic GCA, despite the absence of local signs or symptoms. A review of 26 similar cases revealed that in 81% of patients where the only manifestation of GCA was upper limb findings, temporal artery biopsy yielded positive findings. Steroid therapy clinically improved 24/26 patients. These findings suggest that a consideration of temporal artery biopsy early in the investigation will hasten diagnosis and appropriate therapy. 
Lack of C-erbB-2 protein expression in pulmonary carcinoid tumours. To determine if amplification of the C-erb-B2 proto-oncogene could be correlated with prognosis in carcinoid tumours, 49 pulmonary carcinoid tumours (26 typical, 23 atypical) were examined using a polyclonal antibody to the C-terminal peptide of the C-erb-B2 protein sequence. No C-erb-B2 gene product could be shown: the demonstration of C-erb-B2 does not seem to help, therefore, in determining diagnosis or prognosis in pulmonary carcinoid tumours. 
CHARGE and Joubert syndromes: are they a single disorder? A patient with the CHARGE association (Coloboma of the eye, Heart defect, Atresia of the choana, Retarded growth and development, Genital hypoplasia, and Ear anomalies or deafness) had intermittent hyperpnea and cerebellar hypoplasia; therefore, he had both the CHARGE association and Joubert syndrome. The 2 syndromes have not been previously linked. We discuss their similarities and review the literature. 
Femoral-distal bypass with in situ greater saphenous vein. Long-term results using the Mills valvulotome. During a 7-year period, 440 consecutive in situ saphenous vein grafts originating in the groin were performed in 371 patients, exposing the entire vein for valvulotomy with a modified Mills valvulotome. critical ischemia was the indication for bypass in 68%, and the distal anastomosis was to an infrapopliteal artery in 46%. Thirty-day operative mortality was 2.0%. Postoperative surveillance identified 18 stenotic grafts (4.1%), which were revised while still patent (primary revised patency); 36 grafts (8.2%) underwent revision after graft occlusion (secondary patency). Five-year life-table analysis showed overall primary revised patency of 78%, secondary patency of 83%, limb salvage of 88%, and patient survival of 66%. Femoroperoneal and inframalleolar bypasses fared well. The presence of diabetes did not diminish late graft patency. In contrast to reversed vein grafts, long infrapopliteal in situ grafts had long-term secondary patency similar to shorter femoropopliteal bypass grafts (p greater than 0.05). These results, coupled with the versatility and simplicity of the technique as used in the present series, suggest that in situ vein grafting is the procedure of choice for long infrapopliteal bypass. 
Identifying risk factors in development of clinically significant post-shock-wave lithotripsy subcapsular hematomas. A retrospective study of 1,012 shock-wave lithotripsy treatments was performed to identify and analyze the risk factors for the development of six clinically significant post-extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) subcapsular hematomas. The patients studied had clinical signs and symptoms that on evaluation were confirmed as originating from a subcapsular hematoma. Common factors identified which we believe may put patients at increased risk for the development of subcapsular hematoma included hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and obesity. 
Pain centers--organization and outcome. Pain treatment centers have evolved at a rapid rate, but they differ in their complexity and services provided. Patients, as well as primary care physicians, have difficulty in identifying the appropriate center for a specific problem. Guidelines for pain centers have recently been proposed by the International Association for the Study of Pain, along with an attempt at their accreditation. Outcome studies from pain centers have proliferated, with a wide range of treatment programs being reported. Comprehensive multidisciplinary pain centers using the rehabilitation medicine approach are effective in decreasing disability and increasing the productivity of patients with chronic, disabling pain. 
A universal ossicular replacement prosthesis: clinical trials of 152 cases. An ossicular replacement prosthesis is described that advances implant design in several respects. The head is a flattened egg shape, which eliminates pressure points against the pars tensa and provided balance on the stapes. Dense hydroxylapatite ceramic provides maximal biocompatibility. The shaft, of either Teflon or Plastipore, is easily cut to size and is replaceable to minimize wastage. Interchangeable partial or total shaft variants are provided. Trials in more than 200 patients have produced optimal results. Among 152 mature patients in 85% of the good-risk cases, the air-bone gap closed to within 20 dB and in 65% to within 10 dB; in 69% of all cases the gap closed to within 20 dB. Extrusion rates were 5% in good-risk cases and 7% overall. Long-term extrusions have not occurred. Inasmuch as cartilage interpositioning is unnecessary, the prosthesis is rapidly prepared and implanted by an easily mastered technique. 
Exercise training after cardiac transplantation. During the last decade, cardiac transplantation has become the accepted form of treatment for selected patients with end-stage heart disease, which usually results from dilated cardiomyopathy or coronary artery disease. Although 5-yr survival is currently 85%, patients have complicated courses after surgery, with an ever present risk of infection and graft rejection. Because of physical inactivity and severe limitation of cardiac output preoperatively, these deconditioned patients are excellent candidates for medically supervised rehabilitative exercise training programs. Denervation of the myocardium, which occurs with cardiac transplantation, results in a loss of autonomic nervous system modulation of cardiac output, with reliance on circulating catecholamines and with a delayed heart rate and cardiac output response to the onset of exercise. Oxygen uptake kinetics are prolonged, and maximal oxygen uptake is reduced. Additional abnormalities in cardiac and pulmonary artery pressures and in ventilation during exercise have been described. The literature contains seven studies concerning the effects of exercise training in cardiac transplant recipients. Benefits resulting from training include increases in maximal oxygen uptake, peak exercise power output, anaerobic threshold, and lean body mass, reduced perceived exertion, heart rate, and blood pressure during submaximal exercise, and a lowered resting heart rate and blood pressure. There are no data to suggest that exercise training alters the incidence of infection or rejection or improves longevity or return to pre-illness lifestyle. 
The pseudotumor syndrome. Disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation causing intracranial hypertension without ventriculomegaly. We report a series of eight cases that show a close resemblance to, but are not identical with, pseudotumor cerebri (PTC) as normally defined. The majority of these cases are characterized by raised intracranial pressure without ventriculomegaly. They include two cases of cranial venous outflow obstruction in which clinical or radiologic abnormalities precluded the diagnosis of PTC proper (cases 1 and 2); one case of chronic meningitis in which an abnormal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) composition precluded the diagnosis of PTC (case 3); two cases without either papilledema or a measured increase of CSF pressure, which in other respects, particularly in response to treatment, resembled PTC (cases 4 and 5); and three cases of what is thought to represent an infantile form of PTC (cases 6 through 8). The purpose of the analysis of these cases is twofold. First, it is argued that these cases throw light on the mechanism of PTC itself, supporting a concept of a disturbance of CSF circulation in this condition, and that they are themselves illuminated by considerations of typical PTC. Second, the cases are used to frame a proposed classification of the pseudotumor syndrome aimed at broadening the diagnostic criteria applied currently to PTC. It is suggested that the pseudotumor syndrome has a single underlying mechanism (disturbed CSF circulation) and that recognition of this mechanism not only clarifies the pathophysiologic processes of PTC but also has important diagnostic and therapeutic implications. 
Corticobasal degeneration. A unique pattern of regional cortical oxygen hypometabolism and striatal fluorodopa uptake demonstrated by positron emission tomography. Corticobasal degeneration presents with an asymmetric akinetic-rigid syndrome, apraxia and combinations of supranuclear gaze palsy, myoclonus, and an alien limb. Six patients aged 59-77 yrs, diagnosed on clinical criteria as having corticobasal degeneration, have been studied with positron emission tomography using tracers of dopamine storage capacity and oxygen metabolism. Striatal 18F-6-fluorodopa uptake was reduced in an asymmetric pattern, caudate and putamen being involved in all cases. Uptake into medial frontal cortex was also impaired. Regional cortical oxygen metabolism was most significantly depressed in the superior and posterior temporal, inferior parietal, and occipital associated cortices. Within the frontal lobe, the hypometabolism was chiefly posterior. This unique combination of regional hypometabolism and disruption of the nigrostriatal system is discussed in relation to the clinical features of the disease and is compared with reported findings in other disorders of cognition and movement. 
Lymphoproliferative lesion of the hypoglossal nerve: case report. A rare case of a lymphoproliferative lesion in the hypoglossal nerve is reported. The patient, a 52-year-old woman, had symptoms identical with those of hypoglossal neurinoma. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a lesion at the left cerebellomedullary angle. The tumor was removed, and histopathological studies revealed that the tumor consisted predominantly of lymphocytes. 
Relevance of common tests of cerebrospinal fluid in screening for bacterial meningitis. This study tests the hypothesis that if cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has a nucleated blood cell count (NucBC) of less than 6/mm3, CSF tests other than bacterial culture need not be performed to exclude the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis in patients not receiving antimicrobial agents. The results of tests performed on the first specimen of CSF obtained for a given hospital visit from children younger than 3 years of age, exclusive of newborn infants admitted to the hospital on their date of birth, were analyzed. Of 3356 CSF specimens evaluated, 122 were from patients with bacterial meningitis; 460 specimens were analyzed separately because the erythrocyte count was greater than 1000/mm3. A negative CSF screening test result was defined as a CSF NucBC less than 6/mm3. In facilitating the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, this screening test had a sensitivity of 98.4%, a specificity of 75.2%, and a negative predictive value of 99.9%. The other CSF tests varied widely in screening effectiveness: a Gram-stained smear had a sensitivity of 53% and a specificity of 97%. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was used to assess the screening relevance of CSF tests. The CSF NucBC and CSF segmented NucBC performed indistinguishably and superiorly compared with the CSF protein or glucose concentration and the ratio of CSF glucose to serum glucose concentration. Logistic regression analysis showed that the NucBC alone is superior to any combination of the other CSF tests. In a prospective study of 215 children younger than 3 years of age undergoing a lumbar puncture in our emergency department, 85% had empiric criteria identifying them as appropriate for an abbreviated CSF evaluation. The CSF NucBC was less than 6/mm3 in 70% of the 181 patients who would have been eligible for an abbreviated CSF evaluation. These data suggest that a strategy for the sequential testing of CSF could be adopted that would exclude unnecessary determinations and thereby save time, effort, and health care dollars. 
Medical problems of homeless and nonhomeless persons attending an inner-city clinic: a comparative study. The identification of homelessness as a national problem has focused attention on defining the needs of this sizable population. Existing studies on the medical problems of the homeless are largely descriptive and are limited by lack of comparison to nonhomeless persons. To help fill this gap in knowledge, we conducted a retrospective study of the medical problems of homeless and nonhomeless persons cared for in an outpatient clinic serving the medically indigent. Homeless persons (n = 150) were more likely to be identified as alcoholic and to be seen for cuts and gynecologic problems than nonhomeless persons (n = 154) (p less than .01). There were no significant differences in the occurrence of other illnesses considered to be prevalent in the homeless. This study is among the first that validates descriptive data on the health problems of homeless persons by using concurrent nonhomeless controls. It may help in designing programs to meet the medical needs of the homeless. 
Facial reanimation after acoustic neuroma excision: the patient's perspective. Facial reanimation after acoustic neuroma excision is currently accomplished using a variety of surgical techniques. A multi-institutional survey of patient perceptions of facial reanimation success was accomplished by mailing a questionnaire to 809 randomly selected members of the Acoustic Neuroma Association. Four hundred sixty patients who underwent 296 reanimation procedures responded. Facial to hypoglossal nerve anastomosis, tarsorrhaphy, and upper eyelid implants were most frequently performed. The patient's estimations of initial deficit, spontaneous recovery, and overall satisfaction with the reanimation procedures are discussed. 
Mass closure of the abdominal wound with delayed absorbable suture in surgery for gynecologic cancer. There has been a resurgence of interest recently in the optimal method of closure of the midline abdominal wound. The focus has been on the high-risk patient in particular. The controversy centers on interrupted versus continuous fascial closure and the choice of suture material. For three years on a gynecologic cancer service, running mass closure with delayed absorbable suture (Polyglactin) was used. Two hundred fifty-six patients were evaluable for analysis. The minimum follow-up time was two years. There was no wound dehiscence. Fourteen patients (5.5%) developed incisional hernias. The mass closure technique using delayed absorbable suture was effective in very-high-risk patients. 
Postoperative external alimentary tract fistulas. Most series dealing with external gastrointestinal fistulas cover experience of many years and include a heterogeneous sample of fistulas. We present our experience with 117 cases of postoperative external alimentary tract fistulas treated since 1980. Only fistulas caused by anastomotic leaks and operative injury to bowel are included. The overall mortality rate was 37%. The fistulas are classified into four types: type I-abdominal, esophagus, gastroduodenal (mortality rate, 17%); type II-small bowel (mortality rate, 33%); type III-large bowel (mortality rate, 20%), and type IV-all sites associated with a large abdominal wall defect (mortality rate, 60%). The main cause of death was intra-abdominal infection. Seventy-six percent of the patients required further operations. We conclude that despite the availability of all modern diagnostic and management facilities, postoperative external gastrointestinal fistulas treated during the 1980s continue to represent a surgical "disaster." Only prevention and improved methods in the management of the associated intra-abdominal infections could improve the results. 
High levels of serum soluble interleukin-2 receptors in hyperthyroid patients: correlation with serum thyroid hormones and independence from the etiology of the hyperthyroidism. The serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors (s-IL-2R) and soluble CD8 antigens (s-CD8) were measured in 33 patients with Graves' disease (GD), 29 with toxic nodular goiter (TNG), 6 with toxic adenoma (TA), and 12 with hypothyroidism, as well as in 11 patients with infectious mononucleosis (known to have high s-IL-2R and s-CD8 levels) and 34 normal controls. Serum levels of T3 and T4, both total and free, and of TSH were simultaneously determined. s-IL-2R levels were significantly higher in all patients with hyperthyroidism (mean +/- SD, 3276 +/- 1273 U/mL for GD, 4183 +/- 1832 for TNG, and 1671 +/- 648 for TA) compared to normal control values (P less than 0.001 for GD and TNG and P less than 0.01 for TA), while in the euthyroid state they were within the normal range (535 +/- 240 U/mL). Hypothyroid patients had significantly lower s-IL-2R levels compared to normal controls (P less than 0.05). A positive correlation (P less than 0.001) between serum s-IL-2R levels and total/free T3-T4 levels was found in these groups of patients, while no correlation between s-CD8 levels and s-IL-2R/T3/T4 was found. These findings suggest an association between hyperthyroxinaemia and activation of human lymphocytes in vivo. 
Expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 in septic but not traumatic/hypovolemic shock in the baboon. Baboons were subjected to septic or traumatic/hypovolemic shock and their tissues were examined for the de novo expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 (ELAM-1), using immunohistochemical techniques. In animals with septic shock induced with live Escherichia coli, there was widespread expression of ELAM-1, recognized by monoclonal antibodies H4/18 or ENA-1 in most tissues examined with strong staining in the lung, liver, and kidneys. Endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 expression was evident in capillaries, venules, small veins, arterioles, and arteries. In contrast, baboons with traumatic/hypovolemic shock had minimal levels of focal ELAM expression in all organs studied. Similarly evidence of neutrophil activation, measured by granulocyte elastase levels in the plasma was much more pronounced in animals with septic shock. The study documents that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- and cytokine-induced endothelial activation occurs in vivo in septic shock. Much higher levels of ELAM-1 expression and plasma granulocyte-elastase titer in septic shock, as contrasted with traumatic/hypovolemic shock, are consistent with the higher levels of circulating tumor necrosis factor, other cytokines, and LPS in sepsis. 
Prevention of perioperative deep vein thrombosis in general surgery: a multicentre double blind study comparing two doses of Logiparin and standard heparin. H.B.P.M. Research Group. A total of 1290 patients were enrolled in a randomized multicentre double blind study in order to investigate the use of two doses of a new low molecular weight heparin, Logiparin, in the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in general surgery. Patients who were included had no contraindication to heparin therapy and had at least one of the recognized risk factors for DVT. Patients were randomized to receive unfractionated heparin (UH) 5000 units b.d., Logiparin 2500 units daily or Logiparin 3500 units daily. Each treatment was given subcutaneously 2 h before surgery and continued for 7-10 days. Daily 125I-labelled fibrinogen uptake tests (FUTs) were performed from day 2 to day 7 to detect DVT, and phleboangiography was used to confirm the diagnosis. The wound was examined on a daily basis to check for haematoma formation, and all patients were followed up for 1 month after operation. All three treatment arms were well matched for age, sex, weight, diagnosis and type of operation performed. The three major inclusion criteria in the trial were malignancy, age over 60 years and a history of varicose veins. Positive FUTs (UH = 4.2 per cent, Logiparin 2500 units daily = 7.9 per cent, Logiparin 3500 units daily = 3.7 per cent) and positive angiograms (UH = 3.0 per cent, Logiparin 2500 units daily = 5.6 per cent, Logiparin 3500 units daily = 2.3 per cent) were significantly more common in the Logiparin 2500 units daily group than in the UH and Logiparin 3500 units daily groups. The rates of major complications (severe haemorrhage, death, pulmonary embolism, reintervention) were similar in the three groups. 
Treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting with ondansetron: a randomized, double-blind comparison with placebo. Postoperative nausea and vomiting are common after recovery from general anesthesia. The antiemetic effect and safety of ondansetron, a selective serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist, was determined in 36 patients suffering from nausea or vomiting during recovery from intravenous anesthesia by giving either a single intravenous dose of ondansetron (8 mg, n = 18) or placebo (n = 18) over 2-5 min in a randomized, double-blind manner. A "rescue" antiemetic was provided in case of continued vomiting or at the patient's request. Antiemetic efficacy was defined as no request for rescue antiemetic and/or no vomiting episode during the next 4 h. There was no significant difference in the demographic data between the groups. Administration of ondansetron or placebo had no significant effect on vital signs. Ondansetron was an effective antiemetic in 78% (14/18) and placebo was effective in 28% (5/18) of the patients. Laboratory studies 24 h later showed no signs of hematologic, hepatic, or renal alterations. Ondansetron at a dose of 8 mg administered intravenously over 2-5 min appears to be a safe and effective antiemetic for the treatment of nausea and/or vomiting after intravenous anesthesia. 
Testicular injuries. We reviewed 91 testicular injuries in 86 patients (5 bilateral) as a result of blunt trauma in 72 patients and gunshot wounds in 14 patients. In 90 percent of the patients the injury was solitary. With blunt trauma initially conservative management led to the loss of the entire testis in 21 percent in comparison with only 6 percent of those explored promptly. The recent use of testicular ultrasonography has not differentiated intratesticular hematoma from rupture in the majority of cases of blunt trauma. Bilateral testicular injury occurred in 1 of 72 patients (1.4%) with blunt trauma versus 4 of 14 (29%) with penetrating trauma and affected the fertility in 3 of 4 patients on follow-up. 
Interleukin-3. Biologic effects and clinical impact. Human interleukin-3 (IL-3) is expressed in yeast and has a specific activity of 5 x 10(7) U/mg of protein. It exerts functional and proliferative effects on multiple hematopoietic cell lineages including the neutrophil, eosinophil, basophil, monocytic, and thrombopoietic cell lines. IL-3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) share common binding capacities on hematopoietic cells. Each of these agents has entered clinical trials. The clinical experiences with IL-3 alone and in combination with GM-CSF in a Phase I/II trial are summarized in this report. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: the Dundee technique A total of 61 patients was subjected to laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The procedure was completed in 60 cases and converted to open operation in one (2 per cent). The morbidity rate was low (total 7 per cent, major 2 per cent, blood transfusion rate 5 per cent). The median duration of the laparoscopic cholecystectomy with cholangiography was 135 min (range 65-270 min). The operation took less time to complete in patients with functioning gallbladders than in those with non-functioning fibrotic organs (median 120 versus 175 min). The majority of patients required opiate analgesia despite infiltration of the stab wounds with bupivacaine. The mean (s.d.) hospital stay was 2.9 (1.5) days. The median time to resume work or full activity after discharge was 11 days. 
Central motor pathways in patients with mirror movements. Central motor pathways were investigated in three patients with congenital mirror movements using magnetic motor cortex stimulation. Response thresholds, amplitudes and latencies were normal. The projection of the corticomotoneuronal pathways was assessed by placing the coil over the vertex and comparing the size of responses in the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscles evoked by clockwise and anticlockwise coil currents. In normal subjects, right FDI responses are larger with clockwise currents than with anticlockwise currents at the same stimulation strength and vice versa. In two out of three patients with congenital mirror movements, this sensitivity of response amplitude to coil current direction was reversed. The third patient with congenital mirror movements and a fourth patient with acquired mirror movements had responses which were normally sensitive to current direction. These findings support the hypothesis that some cases of congenital mirror movements may be due to abnormal projection of corticomotoneuronal pathways. 
A selective deficit for writing vowels in acquired dysgraphia Brain-damaged patients with acquired writing disorders provide important information about the normal processes of spelling and writing. Current models indicate that to produce a letter string, its 'abstract' representation is computed and stored in a temporary orthographic buffer, from which it is converted to a verbal code (if the word is to be spelled aloud) or to a physical letter code (if the word is to be written). The stored graphemic representations specify the identity and order of the component letters and their consonant/vowel status. Here I describe the spelling performance of two patients with a selective deficit in writing vowels. When writing words, the first patient omitted all vowels, leaving a blank space between consonants or consonant clusters, whereas the second produced errors that almost exclusively involved vowels. This pattern of performance supports the hypothesis that the consonant/vowel status of graphemes is differentially specified in the spelling process and may be selectively affected after brain damage. 
Double dissociation of short-term and long-term memory for nonverbal material in Parkinson's disease and global amnesia. A further analysis. The traditional concept of memory disorder is deficiency of the long-term (LTM) but not short-term (STM) component of memory. STM impairment with LTM sparing is seldom reported. The present study investigated STM and LTM for nonverbal material in three neurological conditions associated with memory impairment: bilateral medial temporal lobe lesions (patient H.M.), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Subjects received 3 tests of nonverbal memory: forward block span, immediate and delayed recall of the Wechsler Memory Scale drawings, and immediate and delayed recognition of abstract designs. Compared with the normal control group, the patient groups displayed different patterns of sparing and loss of the two components of memory: in PD, only STM was impaired; in medial temporal lobe amnesia, only LTM was impaired; and in AD, STM and LTM were both impaired. The contrasting patterns of sparing and loss of STM and LTM in PD and global amnesia were present for both recognition and recall. These results provide evidence that STM and LTM are dissociable processes and are served by separate neurological systems: STM depends upon intact corticostriatal systems, whereas LTM depends upon intact medial temporal lobe systems. 
Melanosis and associated tumors in transgenic mice. Melanosis was found to various extents in a wide array of tissues of all 23 autopsied mice whose transgene consisted of the tyrosinase promoter fused to the simian virus 40 early-region oncogenic sequences. Pigmentation in a given animal was attributable to any or all of the following; an increase in numbers of some normally pigmented cells of neural crest origin (a result compatible with early stages of transformation); elicitation of melanin synthesis in some cells that normally have little melanin, or none at all (the latter possibly signaling metaplasia); unusual intercellular transfer of pigment granules from melanocytes into certain normally unpigmented epithelia and endothelia; and profusion of melanin-phagocytizing cells. Neoplasms, occasionally also containing melanin, arose in association with some of these melanotic tissues and included three choroid plexus tumors, three endocardial tumors, two peripheral nerve sheath tumors (schwannomas), two cochlear tumors, two pineal gland tumors, one salivary gland tumor, and one nasal mucosa tumor. These apparently originated independently of the ocular and cutaneous melanomas found in the same animals. The events involved in melanosis may thus contribute to neoplastic conversion. 
Seizures of fronto-orbital origin: a proven case. Distinguishing characteristics of seizures of frontal origin have not been clearly delineated. We describe a case of seizures of proven fronto-orbital origin to provide further definition of characteristics of seizures arising in that lobe. A 36-year-old man had medically intractable seizures since age 8 years. Clinically the seizures were stereotyped, with cessation of activity followed by turning of head and body to the right and then by struggling, kicking, and vocalizations indicating fear. Total seizure duration was approximately 30 s, with an apparent abrupt return of consciousness. The interictal scalp EEGs were similar to those of primary generalized epilepsy, with bisynchronous though asymmetric epileptiform activity anteriorly. Ictal scalp recordings were not localizing. Recordings from bilateral frontal and temporal subdural electrodes showed an electrical focus in the right fronto-orbital region which was confirmed by electrocorticography (ECoG) at the time of craniotomy. The right fronto-orbital cortex was resected and on pathologic examination showed gliotic tissue and intracytoplasmic neuronal inclusions of periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive granules consistent with lipofuscinosis. The patient has remained seizure-free for 6 years after operation. 
Chylous ascites and lymphocyst management by peritoneovenous shunt. Although lymphocyst (retroperitoneal lymphocele) is not an uncommon complication after retroperitoneal surgery, with a reported incidence ranging from 0.6% to 48%, the occurrence of chylous ascites is a rare phenomenon. Most reports are anecdotal, and hospital records list the incidence of diagnosis as 0.001% of admissions. Diagnosis of chylous ascites is usually not difficult, inasmuch as aspiration and chemical analysis of the fluid yield the answer. Visualization of retroperitoneal fluid collection by computerized tomography or ultrasonography, however, does always raise the possibility of recurrence of tumor in cases where the primary operation was for cancer. Treatment of smaller lesions can be expectant. Respiratory exercises causing an increase in negative intrathoracic pressure may aid in the movement of fluid through the lymphatics. For larger collections, elemental diets and total parenteral nutrition are also often enough, but surgery is sometimes required. Simple insertion of a peritoneovenous shunt, as in this patient, can be as effective as major operations such as identification and ligation of the offending lymphatic or marsupialization of the cyst. 
Accuracy of endosonography in the staging of rectal cancer treated by radiotherapy. Endosonography is the best available method for the pretherapeutic staging of rectal cancer. The present prospective study was to determine the influence of previous radiotherapy, widely used in the management of this tumour, on the accuracy of endosonography. A complete endosonographic examination was performed just before surgery in 40 patients with rectal cancer. Endosonographic and pathological staging were compared in group A, 21 patients without previous radiotherapy, and group B, 19 patients with preoperative radiotherapy. While the endosonographic accuracy for lymph node involvement was similar in the two groups (85 per cent compared with 84 per cent), wall invasion was correctly ascertained in 86 per cent in group A but in only 47 per cent in group B (P less than 0.05). After irradiation, the thickening of the rectal wall and the poor visualization of the hyperechoic layers hampered interpretation. Post-radiotherapy inflammation and/or fibrosis probably explained the echographic changes. Radiotherapy therefore altered endosonographic staging of rectal cancer. New interpretation criteria are needed for evaluation and follow-up of rectal cancer treated by radiotherapy. 
Increased activation of isolated intestinal lamina propria mononuclear cells in inflammatory bowel disease. Normal human lamina propria lymphocytes are in a heightened state of activation compared with peripheral blood with regard to cell-surface activation antigen expression (transferrin receptor, interleukin-2 receptor, 4F2) and the increased spontaneous secretion of immunoglobulins in vitro. This study evaluates the cell-surface expression of activation-associated antigens in different subpopulations of isolated colonic lamina propria mononuclear cells in inflammatory bowel disease. In pilot studies using three-color flow cytometry, autofluorescence was observed that was emitted by unstained lamina propria mononuclear cells, which interfered with both the sensitivity and the specificity of the analyses. Because a major portion of the intestinal lymphocyte populations of interest were autofluorescent, a method to remove autofluorescence signals was developed by designing a computer program for the subtraction of autofluorescence from the emissions of each individual cell. This technique increases both the sensitivity and specificity of flow-cytometric analyses of intestinal lamina propria mononuclear cells. Using fluorescence-activated cell-sorter analyses with subtraction of autofluorescence on a single-cell basis, increased expression of lymphocyte activation antigens (interleukin-2 receptor, transferrin receptor, 4F2) was found on the cell surface of isolated intestinal B cells, T cells, CD4+ T cells, and CD8+ T cells in both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Therefore, markedly increased intestinal lymphocyte activation is a major immunological alteration in inflammatory bowel disease and includes all lymphocyte subpopulations investigated in this study. In addition, 5-aminosalicylic acid, which is used for the treatment of intestinal inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease, inhibits the expression of cell-surface activation antigens on mitogen-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes in a dose-dependent manner. These observations suggest that lymphocyte activation may play an important role in underlying immune processes that lead to chronicity and perpetuation of inflammatory bowel disease and may implicate an additional mechanism for the therapeutic action of 5-aminosalicylic acid. 
A double-blinded, randomized trial of hydrocortisone in acute hepatic failure. The Acute Hepatic Failure Study Group. The Acute Hepatic Failure Study Group (AHFSG) has conducted a double-blinded, randomized evaluation of hydrocortisone in patients with acute hepatic failure. From July 1975 through August 1978, a 38-month period, 18 medical centers in the United States and one in Canada participated in this trial. A total of 64 patients were accessed and found eligible to participate in the study; two of them were subsequently eliminated from our analysis. Eighteen patients received placebo; 23 received 400 mg hydrocortisone per day, and 21 patients were administered 800 mg hydrocortisone per day. We did not observe any therapeutic effect of hydrocortisone, and the survival rates for placebo versus 400 mg and versus 800 mg hydrocortisone per day were 22%, 9%, and 24%, respectively. Fulminant hepatitis associated with drug hepatotoxicity or non-A, non-B hepatitis seemed to have a worse prognosis than fulminant B, although these differences were not significant. Serum alpha-fetoprotein had a modest prognostic value of survival and seemed to be limited to fulminant B. The AHFSG recommends, therefore, that corticosteroid use in acute hepatic failure with hepatic encephalopathy be discontinued. 
Management of patients aged over 60 years with supratentorial glioma: lessons from an audit. This audit of clinical management confirmed the poor prognosis for patients (n = 80) aged over 60 years with a diagnosis of supratentorial glioma. The median survival time after diagnosis was 9 weeks following steroids and 7 weeks after biopsy and steroids. Cytoreductive surgery and radiotherapy improved median survival time by a maximum of 16 weeks, but there was significant morbidity in some patients undergoing craniotomy. Although 92% of the biopsied lesions were either glioblastoma or anaplastic astrocytoma, the median survival of these patients was similar to the 8% of patients confirmed as having intermediate grade astrocytoma. Patients presenting with minimal functional deficit (WHO grade I or II) had longer median survival times than those presenting in poor condition (WHO grade III or IV). In this series there was no relationship between management undertaken and clinical status of the patient. The 9% of the cohort that survived 1 year were treated in a variety of ways. This audit, together with results from other studies, suggests that a prospective clinical trial of different management regimes in elderly patients with supratentorial gliomas is needed. Since median survival time in the most intensively treated patients will be around 6 months, treatment evaluation must consider the quality of life provided. 
Diagnosis and treatment of cranial neuralgias. Both medical and surgical therapies may be used in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia and glossopharyngeal neuralgia. Ordinarily, the treatment is medical; however, if a response to drugs is not forthcoming, or if the patient becomes toxic while taking medications or refuses to abide by an appropriate medical program, then surgical consultation should be obtained and the appropriate operation performed. The form and type of neurosurgical procedure will probably depend to a considerable extent on the expertise of the neurosurgeon and his training. Generally, in the elderly, the simplest procedure should be attempted first. It may be necessary to employ both medical and surgical procedures in the individual patient. The medical drug of first choice is carbamazepine. Atypical facial neuralgia is a general term used to cover a variety of head and face pains that are poorly defined and that may not deserve separate clinical status. The pathogenesis of the atypical facial neuralgias is uncertain, and multiple causation seems likely. Search for local inflammatory pathology, neoplasms, vasomotor phenomena, and depressive symptoms is indicated. Treatment should be guided by the findings. 
Helicobacter pylori in children with peptic ulcer and their families. Little is known about the source and spread of Helicobacter pylori, but transmission from infected family contacts has been suggested. We have therefore investigated 15 children with peptic ulcer and their first-degree relatives for H. pylori. Serum anti-H. pylori IgG, pepsinogen I, and gastrin levels were measured. Endoscopy was carried out on the children and relatives, and biopsies were taken from the gastric antrum for histology, microbiology, and urease testing. Six of 11 children with duodenal ulcer (55%) and two of four children with gastric ulcer (50%) were positive for H. pylori. Fourteen of 16 parents (87%) and eight of 13 siblings (61%) of H. pylori-positive children with peptic ulcer were also infected compared with eight of 14 parents (57%) and none of four siblings of H. pylori-negative children with peptic ulcer (P less than 0.10, greater than 0.05, and NS, respectively). The children with H. pylori-negative peptic ulcer and negative siblings combined were younger than positive children with peptic ulcer and positive siblings (P less than 0.001). The reliability of serum anti-H. pylori IgG level as a screening test for infection was confirmed. These findings call into question a pathogenetic role for H. pylori in some childhood peptic ulceration, but do suggest that person-to-person spread of infection occurs. 
Noninvasive diagnosis of vascular trauma by duplex ultrasonography. Duplex ultrasonography was used prospectively in the initial evaluation of 198 patients with 319 potential vascular injuries of the neck and extremities. Patients who were unstable or who had obvious arterial trauma were excluded. Injury was caused by gunshot in 104 (53%), blunt trauma in 42 (21%), stab wound in 34 (17%), and shotgun in 18 (9%). Duplex ultrasonography correctly characterized and localized vascular injuries in 23 patients: arterial disruptions (13), intimal flaps (4), acute pseudoaneurysms (3), arteriovenous fistulas (2), and shotgun pellet arteriopuncture (1). Nineteen other patients had vasospasm (13) or external compression (6) without evidence of intrinsic vessel injury, these 42 studies had true-positive results. Twenty patients underwent arterial repair (13 on the basis of duplex ultrasonography alone), one had primary amputation, three required fasciotomy, and 18 were observed. Two patients with false-negative results had minor shotgun pellet arteriopunctures that were missed by duplex ultrasonography, but neither needed repair. One hundred fifty-three patients had true-negative results on duplex ultrasonography: all clinically had only proximity injuries and easily palpable distal pulses. The result of one duplex ultrasonography study was found to be false-positive on arteriography. The sensitivity of duplex ultrasonography was 95%, the specificity was 99%, and the overall accuracy was 98%. These results closely approximate those reported with the use of exclusion arteriography in the evaluation of similar vascular trauma patients. Furthermore, duplex ultrasonography has no interventional risks and is more cost-effective for screening such injuries than arteriography or exploration. Duplex ultrasonography is a reliable method of diagnosis in patients with potential peripheral vascular injuries. 
Positron emission tomography demonstrates that coronary sinus retroperfusion can restore regional myocardial perfusion and preserve metabolism. Positron emission tomography was used to image blood flow and metabolic tracers in risk zone myocardium after left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion during synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion. Six control and seven intervention open chest dogs had occlusion of the mid left anterior descending coronary artery. Synchronized retroperfusion commenced 25 min later. Flow tracers (rubidium-82 and nitrogen-13 ammonia) were injected retrogradely. Three hours after coronary occlusion, fluorine-18 (F-18) deoxyglucose uptake in the control and treatment groups was compared. At 200 min of occlusion, infarct size was assessed. Retrograde flow tracer uptake was observed in the risk zone in the seven intervention dogs. Fluorine-18 deoxyglucose uptake in the risk zone was increased in five of the six intervention dogs but was reduced in five of the six control dogs. The risk zone to normal zone F-18 deoxyglucose count ratio was higher in the intervention than the control group (1.13 +/- 0.39 vs. 0.59 +/- 0.51; p less than 0.05). The endocardial subsegment risk zone to normal zone F-18 deoxyglucose count ratio was also significantly higher in the intervention group. Percent infarction in the risk zone was 70% lower in the group treated with synchronized retroperfusion than in the control group (18.4 +/- 22.6% vs. 61.2 +/- 25.4%; p less than 0.02). Thus, positron emission tomography revealed that retroperfusion could deliver oxygenated blood and maintain metabolism in risk zone myocardium. Infarct size was limited to 30% of that of control. In acute closure of the left anterior descending coronary artery, synchronized retroperfusion might be considered for maintaining viability of the jeopardized myocardium if the artery cannot be reopened rapidly. 
Lamina repair and replacement to control laminectomy membrane formation in dogs. This study examined the efficacy of lamina repair by the use of various techniques to prevent postlaminectomy scar formation in a canine system. Five-level noncontiguous laminectomies were performed on six adult canines. The most caudal (Site 1) was left uncovered and served as the control. Exposed dura at each of the remaining four levels was covered with one of the following: Site 2, free autogenous laminar bone graft; Site 3, polymethylmethacrylate; Site 4, Teflon-Proplast composite; Site 5, collagen gel. The dogs used in the study were killed 16 weeks after surgery. Three specimens were examined by plain roentgenography and computerized tomography, two specimens were examined histologically, and the remaining four specimens were graded according to scar volume and scar adherence, as detected during gross dissection of the postlaminectomy scar. No repair technique interfered with roentgenography evaluation. The least scar and fewest adhesions were present under the free bone graft repair site. The Teflon-Proplast composite and polymethylmethacrylate both limited the amount and adherence of scar. Collagen gel and control sites were indistinguishable in this study. It is concluded that lamina repair with a solid material covering exposed dura significantly reduces the formation of postlaminectomy membrane and scar. 
2-D echocardiography: emergent use in the evaluation of penetrating precordial trauma. Diagnosis of cardiac injury in stable patients suffering penetrating precordial trauma has relied on observation, subxiphoid window, or exploratory thoracotomy. Previous reports have stressed the need for an alternative noninvasive diagnostic test. Although the use of echocardiography (ECHO) in this patient population has been suggested, to our knowledge no report thus far has presented extensive experience with this technique. We present our experience over 3 years with 36 patients in whom emergent ECHO was used as part of their initial work-up. Injuries included single stab wounds (17), multiple stab wounds (14), and gunshot wounds (5). Four patients (11%) had jugular venous distention, and 12 (33%) were tachycardic. None had a systolic blood pressure below 90 mm Hg. Four ECHOs (11%) were positive for pericardial effusion. No valvular abnormalities were detected. Three of the effusions were small and these patients were triaged to monitored beds and observed. All three effusions resolved on serial echocardiography. The fourth patient underwent an uneventful operative repair of a left ventricular laceration. Although the yield is low, emergent 2-D ECHO is a valuable tool in the triage of stable penetrating trauma patients when cardiac injury is suspected. Patients without effusion can be discharged or triaged to a ward bed. Small effusions can be observed in a monitored setting with serial examinations, while large effusions should be treated surgically. Echocardiography is less expensive than ICU admission and less invasive than either subxiphoid window or thoracotomy. There are no known complications associated with the procedure and it is recommended for emergent use when available. 
Mechanisms involved in the response to prolonged infusion of atrial natriuretic factor in patients with chronic heart failure. We examined the mechanisms involved in the cardiovascular and renal response to prolonged infusion of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in patients with chronic heart failure. ANF infusion was titrated to produce a 30% decrease in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure or a 20% increase in cardiac output, and this dose (average, 75 +/- 4 ng/kg/min) was then administered for 20 hours. The short-term response to ANF included significant reductions in central filling pressures, increases in cardiac output, modest increases in diuresis and glomerular filtration rates, significant reduction in plasma aldosterone levels, and a 3.6-fold increase in plasma cyclic GMP levels. During prolonged infusion, plasma cGMP levels and cardiac output gradually returned to baseline. Similarly, the initially increased diuretic effects were completely abolished during prolonged ANF infusion, although plasma alpha-hANF levels remained consistently elevated above baseline values (control, 198 +/- 38; titration, 2,760 +/- 596; 20 hours, 3,499 +/- 659 pg/ml). Four hours after beginning the ANF infusion, marked increases in hematocrit levels were noted (42.5 +/- 1.0% versus 45.3 +/- 1.4%, control and infusion, respectively, p less than 0.05); during this time, no change in total plasma protein concentration occurred, indicating extravascular shift of fluid and plasma proteins. No evidence was noted for activation of vasoconstrictor hormones during prolonged ANF infusion, although mean arterial pressure was significantly reduced throughout the infusion period. Plasma pro-ANF (31-67) levels, determined as a marker for endogenous ANF secretion, were significantly suppressed as were the reductions of central filling pressures. After ANF discontinuation, heart rate and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure increased significantly above baseline values without evidence for sympathetic stimulation. We conclude that 1) prolonged infusion of ANF causes only transient increases in plasma cGMP levels but a sustained reduction of the cardiac release of ANF and that 2) the beneficial hemodynamic effects of ANF, that is, unloading of the ventricles, may be associated with or, in part, may be secondary to a shift of plasma constituents into the extravascular space. The latter may limit the therapeutic potential of ANF for long-term treatment. 
Rhodococcus equi infection in the patient with AIDS: literature review and report of an unusual case. Rhodococcus equi is an aerobic, intracellular, gram-positive rod-coccus that is partially acid fast. The organism is primarily a pathogen in animals and has only rarely been seen in immunocompromised humans. Its most common manifestation is a slowly progressive pneumonia that may cavitate. Infections are thought to be acquired via respiratory exposure to animals or soil. R. equi infections are difficult to treat, usually requiring prolonged administration of parenteral antibiotics and often necessitating surgical drainage. A case of cavitary pneumonia and recurrent bacteremia with R. equi in a patient with AIDS is reported, and the current literature on R. equi infections in humans is reviewed. 
Cognitive laboratory approach to designing questionnaires for surveys of the elderly. Data from surveys of the elderly are used by policy analysts to design health services programs. Consequently, the quality of survey data on elderly respondents has important implications for this growing segment of society: improving the quality of data should result in more cost effective programs for the elderly. However, studies suggest that the quality of responses from the elderly may be less than that for other respondents. Moreover, the increasing needs of policy analysts and health researchers for data have resulted in more complex survey questions that place a high cognitive burden on respondents. New methods for improving the design of these questionnaires are needed. This project investigated whether new techniques of questionnaire design, adapted from the theories and methods of cognitive psychology, could be effectively used in interviewing older respondents. The techniques used in this study, concurrent think-aloud interviews with followup probe questions, have been shown recently to be effective with younger respondents. Problems that elderly respondents have in comprehending survey questions, retrieving relevant information from memory, and using decision processes to estimate and provide answers were investigated. Questions on functional ability and social support were taken from the 1984 Supplement on Aging to the National Health Interview Survey. Analysis of respondents' think-aloud protocols and responses to probes suggest that the cognitive interview procedures were effective in identifying problems with the survey questions that would result in data of poorer quality and in suggesting the wording of questions that would be likely to result in answers of greater validity and reliability. Implications of these results for survey design and validation studies are discussed. 
Vagal stimulation and prevention of sudden death in conscious dogs with a healed myocardial infarction. The interest for the antifibrillatory effect of vagal stimulation has been largely limited by the fact that this concept seemed restricted to acute experiments in anesthetized animals. To explore the potentially protective role of vagal stimulation in conscious animals we developed a chronically implantable device to be placed around the cervical right vagus. An anterior myocardial infarction was produced in 161 dogs; 1 month later an exercise stress test was performed on the 105 survivors. Toward the end of the test the circumflex coronary artery was occluded for 2 minutes. Fifty-nine (56%) dogs developed ventricular fibrillation and, before this test was repeated, were assigned either to a control group (n = 24) or to be instrumented with the vagal device (n = 35). Five dogs were excluded because of electrode malfunction. Compared with the heart rate level attained after 30 seconds of occlusion during exercise in the control test, vagal stimulation led to a decrease of approximately 75 beats/min (from 255 +/- 33 to 170 +/- 36 beats/min, p less than 0.001). In the control group 22 (92%) of 24 dogs developed ventricular fibrillation during the second exercise and ischemia test. By contrast, during vagal stimulation ventricular fibrillation occurred in only 3 (10%) of the 30 dogs tested and recurred in 26 (87%) during an additional exercise and ischemia test in the control condition (p less than 0.001 versus the vagal stimulation test; internal control analysis). Combined analysis of the tests performed in the control condition showed that ventricular fibrillation was reproducible in 48 (89%) of the 54 dogs tested. The protective effect of vagal stimulation was also significant in the group comparison analysis and even after exclusion of those four dogs in which ventricular fibrillation was not reproducible (92% versus 11.5%, control versus vagal stimulation, p less than 0.001). When heart rate was kept constant by atrial pacing, the vagally mediated protection was still significant (p = 0.015) as five (55%) of nine dogs survived the test. This study shows that vagal stimulation, performed shortly after the onset of an acute ischemic episode in conscious animals with a healed myocardial infarction, can effectively prevent ventricular fibrillation. This striking result seems to depend on multiple mechanisms having a synergistic action. The decrease in heart rate is an important but not always essential protective mechanism. The electrophysiological effects secondary to the vagally mediated antagonism of the sympathetic activity on the heart are likely to play a major role. 
Prophylactic sclerotherapy for esophageal varices in men with alcoholic liver disease. A randomized, single-blind, multicenter clinical trial. The Veterans Affairs Cooperative Variceal Sclerotherapy Group. BACKGROUND. Sclerotherapy is an effective treatment for bleeding esophageal varices in patients with alcoholic liver disease. It has also been suggested that sclerotherapy might be effective in preventing initial episodes of bleeding and improving survival among such patients. METHODS. We conducted a prospective, randomized trial comparing prophylactic sclerotherapy and sham therapy in 281 men with alcoholic liver disease who had at least three variceal channels and no history of variceal bleeding. All the patients underwent endoscopy; 143 received sclerotherapy, and 138 received sham therapy. RESULTS. The two patient groups were well matched at entry with respect to the extent of liver disease and other clinical indexes, except that other medical illnesses were significantly more common in the sclerotherapy group. The study's data-monitoring board terminated the trial 22.5 months after it began because the rate of mortality from all causes was significantly higher in the sclerotherapy group (32.2 percent) than in the sham-therapy group (17.4 percent, P = 0.004), despite the fact that the men who received sclerotherapy had significantly fewer episodes of esophageal variceal bleeding. The causes of death varied, and there is no obvious explanation for the excess mortality in the sclerotherapy group. After the termination of treatment, the excess mortality rate in the sclerotherapy group promptly declined. There were 53 episodes of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (including 10 from esophageal varices and 9 from esophageal ulcers) in the sclerotherapy group and 40 episodes (including 19 from esophageal varices) in the sham-therapy group. Complications of sclerotherapy were frequent but seldom life-threatening. CONCLUSIONS. For unknown reasons, prophylactic sclerotherapy is associated with increased mortality among men with moderate-to-severe alcoholic liver disease and esophageal varices. Sclerotherapy should not be performed until after an initial episode of bleeding from esophageal varices has occurred. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy. This article describes the first 50 laparoscopic cholecystectomies emphasizing the two-handed technique that is currently used at Marietta Surgical Center, Marietta, Georgia. This procedure has become primarily an outpatient procedure with resumption of normal activities in 7 days (including athletics). Two patients in this series had complications. One patients was converted to an open procedure because of a common duct injury. The other patient developed a biloma 2 weeks following surgery and recovered uneventfully following paracentesis on an outpatient basis. 
Doppler echocardiographic evaluation of diastolic dysfunction. Recently, considerable effort has been directed toward the application of Doppler methods for detecting diastolic dysfunction. Recordings of transmitral filling velocity as obtained from pulsed-wave Doppler have been extensively investigated as a noninvasive method for determining left ventricular diastolic filling properties. Although Doppler parameters appear to reflect volumetric transmitral flow, close correlations with invasive descriptors of diastolic performance have not been found. Furthermore, Doppler transmitral velocities are sensitive to changes in ventricular preload, afterload, and heart rate. However, at least two distinct Doppler spectral patterns have been identified that are associated with impaired ventricular relaxation and restrictive physiology. Thus, Doppler recordings have proven to be of value in identifying the presence and type of diastolic dysfunction, and in the future they may be helpful in following the response to therapeutic interventions. The purpose of this paper is to review the available information relating Doppler transmitral recordings with catheterization and clinical descriptors of diastolic function. Additionally, the aim is to provide an understanding of the value and limitations of these noninvasive measurements in identifying and treating patients with diastolic abnormalities. 
The role of endoscopic papillotomy in ascending cholangitis. The role of endoscopic papillotomy in calculous cholangitis is unclear. A retrospective review of 41 patients admitted to hospital with calculous cholangitis was carried out. There were 30 women and 11 men and their ages ranged between 49 and 98 years (mean age 77). All patients presented with abdominal pain, tenderness, chills, and fever. Clinical jaundice was present in 95 per cent of the patients. Initial endoscopic papillotomy was successful in 17 of the 41 patients. In 24 patients cholangitis persisted or recurred and further therapy was carried out. Surgery was successful in controlling sepsis in ten of the 24 patients. Repeat endoscopic papillotomy was successful in four of 13 patients. Surgery was successful in one of nine patients who had failed repeat endoscopic papillotomy. Nasobiliary drainage and percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct after failed repeat endoscopic papillotomy was successful in only two of nine patients. Six patients died after failed repeat endoscopic papillotomy. We conclude that initial endoscopic papillotomy should be attempted in patients with calculous cholangitis. Surgical exploration of the common bile duct should then be carried out if initial endoscopic papillotomy fails to control cholangitis. 
Feeding strategies for the dysphagic patient: a nursing perspective. The goal of treatment for the dysphagic patient is to maintain safe oral feeding. Achieving this goal requires an individualized care plan using selected feeding strategies. This care plan will need to be altered as changes in the patient's condition occur. 
Fibreoptic bronchoscopy without general anaesthetic. We have used flexible fibreoptic bronchoscopy using sedation and local anaesthesia in 50 children aged 2-19 years (median 10) using an Olympus BFP20 instrument. Indications were opportunistic pneumonias (n = 11), persistent atelectasis (n = 11), recurrent pneumonia (n = 7), miscellaneous lower airway disease (n = 7), recurrent wheezing (n = 3), haemoptysis (3), to diagnose infection or rejection of heart-lung transplants (n = 3), stridor (n = 2), suspected airway compression (n = 1), evaluation of tracheostomy (n = 1), and suspected foreign body (n = 1). In 43 cases (86%) the diagnosis was related to the primary indication. In five (10%) unrelated abnormalities were found, and five (10%) were normal. In 13 (26%) treatment was altered as a result of flexible fibreoptic bronchoscopy. Complications were transient respiratory arrest (n = 2), hypoxia (n = 2), pneumonia (n = 2), and laryngospasm (n = 1). All complications were followed by complete recovery. Our results suggest that flexible fibreoptic bronchoscopy is safe. Advantages over rigid bronchoscopy include greater visual range, fewer complications, and the avoidance of a general anaesthetic. Though invasive it can yield important diagnostic and therapeutic information. 
Characterization of an insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP-4) produced by the B104 rat neuronal cell line: chemical and biological properties and differential synthesis by sublines. A previous report from our laboratory described an approximately 30 kilodalton (kDa) insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP) that inhibited the binding of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) by its receptor and was secreted by a subline of the B104 rat neuronal cell line. To better understand the biology of this IGFBP, it was purified from media conditioned by these B104 cells, and the chemical and biological properties of the protein were examined. The IGFBP existed as a 24 kDa form and a 28 kDa form when the conditioned media were analyzed by ligand blot. Deglycosylation studies indicated the 28 kDa species was the N-linked glycosylated form of the 24 kDa IGFBP. Multiple forms at both mol wts were found using two-dimensional electrophoresis, suggesting that there were posttranslational modifications in addition to glycosylation. The amino acid sequence of the 12 amino-terminal residues was identical to that of rat IGFBP-4. Increased synthesis of IGFBP-4 by the subline contrasted with neglible production by other B104 cells. Blot hybridization with rat IGFBP-4 complementary DNA showed differential expression of a 2.6 kilobase transcript among B104 cell lines that correlated with quantities of IGFBP-4 secreted in media. The difference persisted even when the cells were xenografted into athymic nude mice. Purified IGFBP-4 inhibited the binding of [125I]IGF-I by its receptor and blunted stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation by IGF-I. These findings suggest a role for IGFBP-4 in neural cell function and indicate the B104 cell lines may be a useful model for further examination of IGFBP-4 biology. 
Phase III comparison of doxorubicin and dacarbazine given by bolus versus infusion in patients with soft-tissue sarcomas: a Southwest Oncology Group study. Disseminated soft-tissue sarcomas are a group of uncommon malignancies generally treated in a uniform manner. This study questioned the impact of schedule on response rate and toxicity in patients with metastatic soft-tissue sarcoma treated with the two-drug combination doxorubicin and dacarbazine. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either bolus therapy with doxorubicin at a dose of 60 mg/m2 and dacarbazine at a dose of 750 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1 (118 patients) or infusional therapy with doxorubicin at 60 mg/m2 and dacarbazine at 750 mg/m2 delivered by continuous intravenous infusion for 96 hours on days 1-4 (122 patients). Chemotherapy was to be repeated every 3 weeks. A unique feature of this cooperative group protocol was a provision for surgical resection of residual disease in patients with a partial response or with stable disease following chemotherapy. Similar overall response rates (17% in both treatment arms) and complete response rates (5% in both treatment arms) were observed. For patients receiving bolus therapy, the median response duration was 19.6 months for those in complete remission and 6.6 months for those in partial remission. For patients receiving infusional therapy, the median response duration was 12.6 months for those in complete remission and 9.3 months for those in partial remission. Examination of dose intensity received when combining treatment arms revealed a weak doxorubicin dose-response relationship. There was no difference in median survival times between the two treatment arms (bolus therapy, 10.6 months; infusional therapy, 10.5 months; logrank P = .97). Analysis of toxic effects favored infusional therapy. Significant reductions in cardiac toxicity (all events, P = .04; clinical events, P = .01) and nausea and emesis (P = .04) were seen in infusional therapy. Of 47 patients eligible for cytoreductive surgery following chemotherapy, 12 received surgery, and of those 12, eight were rendered disease free. The use of a 96-hour continuous intravenous infusion of doxorubicin-dacarbazine was comparable therapeutically with bolus dosing of these two agents and was better tolerated by the patients. 
Association between antiphospholipid antibodies and cardiac abnormalities in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. PURPOSE: Although the antiphospholipid antibodies are well recognized to be associated with thrombosis, recurrent abortion, and thrombocytopenia in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), their relationship with cardiac disease is less clear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between anti-phospholipid antibodies and cardiac abnormalities in patients with SLE. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 75 consecutive SLE patients and 60 healthy sex- and age-matched control subjects were evaluated in a case-control study. All participants underwent M-mode, two-dimensional, and Doppler echocardiography. Antiphospholipid antibodies levels were assayed in each patient. The prevalence of antiphospholipid antibodies in patients with and without echocardiographic abnormalities was compared. RESULTS: Compared with the control group, SLE patients had significantly more pericardial abnormalities, left ventricular hypertrophy, left atrial enlargement, left ventricular dysfunction and verrucous valvular thickening, global valvular thickening with dysfunction, and mitral and aortic regurgitation. Among these abnormalities, antiphospholipid antibodies were significantly associated with isolated left ventricular (global or segmental) dysfunction (four of five positive; p less than 0.05), verrucous valvular (mitral or aortic) thickening (seven of nine positive; p less than 0.005), global valvular (mitral or aortic) thickening and dysfunction (five of six positive; p less than 0.02), as well as mitral regurgitation (16 of 19 positive; p less than 0.001) and aortic regurgitation (five of six positive; p less than 0.02). CONCLUSION: Valvular lesions and myocardial dysfunction are associated with elevated antiphospholipid antibodies. This study has important implications for the pathogenic role of anti-phospholipid antibodies in relation to these cardiac abnormalities. 
Mitochondrial encephalopathies: molecular genetic diagnosis from blood samples. Point mutations of mitochondrial DNA have been described in the muscle of patients with syndromes of myoclonic epilepsy and ragged red fibres (MERRF) and of mitochondrial encephalopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). We have found the MERRF mutation in members of 6 British kindreds; 2 of these had unusual phenotypes but all index patients had myoclonus. The MELAS mutation was detected in 17 patients from 16 families, who had a wide range of clinical features that particularly affected the central nervous system; stroke-like episodes were observed in 10.3 patients with mitochondrial DNA mutations did not have ragged red fibres on muscle biopsy, generally considered to be the morphological hallmark of mitochondrial diseases. In all 6 patients with the MERRF mutation, and 10 of 11 with the MELAS mutation, the genetic defect was easily detected in blood cells as well as muscle (blood samples were not available in 6 patients with MELAS mutations in muscle). Molecular genetic analysis of blood samples represents an inexpensive and reliable screening test for mitochondrial encephalopathies, and use of such techniques could influence diagnosis and genetic counselling in patients with seizure disorders and young-onset stroke. 
Pyroelectric vidicon thermography and cold challenge quantify the severity of Raynaud's phenomenon. Thermographic images of the hands of patients with primary and secondary Raynaud's phenomenon and of a group of normal subjects, recorded before and after cold provocation using a pyroelectric vidicon thermal imaging system, showed differences in thermal distribution patterns that were characteristic of primary Raynaud's phenomenon (RP), scleroderma (RS) and normal, and were exaggerated by cold provocation. The responses to cold challenge, assessed by computing the mean temperature of the hand as it recovered from cold challenge and plotting these values against time to produce a rewarming curve, were also characteristic of the patient and the normal groups, and gave an indication of the severity of circulatory impairment. Methods are described for the simple numerical characterization of these parameters. 
The low risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in patients dispensed corticosteroids. PURPOSE: To determine the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in patients treated with corticosteroids. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The incidence of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding was assessed in a cohort of 19,880 patients from the Michigan Medicaid billing database with dermatitis and/or asthma treated with corticosteroids during 1980 to 1984. The frequency of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was assessed within 60 days after each corticosteroid prescription. RESULTS: The incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in patients without a past history of upper gastrointestinal bleeding who were exposed to corticosteroids was only 2.8 cases per 10,000 person-months. The rate of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was notably higher in patients receiving anticoagulants and those with a prior history of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (23.0 and 15.9 cases per 10,000 person-months, respectively). CONCLUSION: Because the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in ambulatory patients treated with corticosteroids is so low, prophylactic therapy should be restricted to high-risk patients, if it is to be used at all. 
Caseating cutaneous granulomas in a patient with X-linked infantile hypogammaglobulinemia. A 34-year-old man with X-linked infantile hypogammaglobulinemia, bronchiectasis, and chronic liver disease had a papular eruption on the trunk and upper extremities. A biopsy specimen revealed caseating granulomas, but special stains, cultures, and electron microscopy failed to reveal an infectious organism. Immunohistochemistry showed that the lymphocytes within the granulomas were almost exclusively of the CD8+ cytotoxic/suppressor T phenotype. Phenotypic analysis of the circulating lymphocytes showed normal numbers of CD4+ (helper/inducer) and CD8+ T cells, whereas B cells were undetectable. Other examples of noninfectious granulomatous disease have been reported in patients with primary hypogammaglobulinemia, but this is the first case of caseating cutaneous granulomatous disease to be reported in a patient with X-linked infantile hypogammaglobulinemia. 
High risk of human papillomavirus infection and cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions among women with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection. We investigated the relationship of human papillomavirus (by cervicovaginal lavage and Southern blot), human immunodeficiency virus, and squamous intraepithelial lesions in 96 high-risk women in the Bronx, New York. Antibodies for human immunodeficiency virus were detected in 51 (53%) women. Of the 33 women with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection, 23 (70%) had human papillomavirus infection compared with 4 of 18 (22%) asymptomatic women who were human immunodeficiency virus seropositive and 10 of 45 (22%) uninfected women (p less than 0.0001). The rate of squamous intraepithelial lesions was 52% (14 of 27) for women with both viruses detected, 18% (6 of 34) for women with either virus detected, and 9% (3 of 35) for uninfected women. Among symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus-infected women, a strong association between human papillomavirus infection and squamous intraepithelial lesions was demonstrated (odds ratio, 12; 95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 108). Risk was highest for younger women from ethnic or racial minority groups. Advanced human immunodeficiency virus-related disease, with its associated immunosuppression, seems to exacerbate human papillomavirus-mediated cervical cytologic abnormalities. Public health measures are needed to provide Papanicolaou smear screening and appropriate clinical follow-up and treatment for women at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection. 
The effect of the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis on renal blood flow in fetal sheep. Treatment with prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors has been associated with oligohydramnios in the fetus. The presumed mechanism is a reduction in fetal renal blood flow. We examined the effect of meclofenamate administration on renal blood flow in chronically catheterized fetal sheep during normoxia and during moderate and severe hypoxia. Ten fetal sheep were made hypoxic twice at least 4 days after surgery: once in the presence and once in the absence of meclofenamate infusion. Renal blood flow and combined ventricular output were measured with radioactive microspheres. Prostaglandin synthesis blockade with meclofenamate caused no significant change in blood pressure, combined ventricular output, renal blood flow, or renal vascular resistance in either the normoxic or hypoxic animals. These data challenge the contention that prostaglandin activity protects the renal vascular bed of the fetus from vasoconstriction during hypoxia and they also do not support the hypothesis that prostaglandin synthesis inhibition causes oligohydramnios through reduction of fetal renal blood flow. 
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related Kaposi's sarcoma of the male genitalia: management with radiation therapy. Kaposi's sarcoma of the genitalia is an infrequent complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome but it often is difficult to manage. A total of 19 men (mean age 39 years) with penile and/or scrotal lesions underwent radiotherapy at dosages of 600 to 3,000 cGy. in fractions of 150 to 800 cGy. Of the patients 6 achieved a complete and 10 a partial response, while 2 had no response and 1 died too soon after treatment to be evaluated. Recurrences were noted in 8 patients, 7 of whom received additional radiation (1 patient had 2 recurrences and both responded). Of the retreatments 3 effected complete and 4 partial responses. Over-all, of 25 evaluable treatment courses 9 complete (36%) and 14 partial (56%) responses yielded a total response rate of 92%. There was 1 complication, a skin ulceration. Radiation therapy is well tolerated and will result in effective palliation in the majority of patients with Kaposi's sarcoma of the genitalia. 
Imaging the pleura: sonography, CT, and MR imaging. A variety of imaging techniques can be used to evaluate the pleura and the pleural space. Standard radiographs are the most common. In this article, however, we review the use of three other imaging techniques: sonography, CT, and MR imaging. Sonography allows easy identification of pleural fluid and loculation and differentiation from pleural masses; CT is best for characterizing location and composition of pleural masses; MR is somewhat limited, but is best for imaging superior sulcus carcinoma. 
Bowel perforation and interstitial cystitis in childhood systemic lupus erythematosus. A 13-year-old girl presented with abdominal pain, fever, dysuria, incontinence and pyuria and was subsequently diagnosed as having systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with extensive gastrointestinal involvement and an associated interstitial cystitis. Despite aggressive therapy with high dose prednisone and cyclophosphamide she developed a small bowel perforation and subsequently died. The combination of bowel symptoms and interstitial cystitis seems unique to the population with SLE, while the separate complication of bowel perforation carries an extremely poor prognosis in this group of patients. 
Retinoid-induced ear malformations. Treatment of pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats with retinoic acid or etretinate pregnancy day 8.5 to 9.0 resulted in craniofacial defects in 100% of the embryos. A morphologic investigation of the malformations occurring in the ear was performed. Outer ears were missing, microtic, low-placed, and dorsally situated. External acoustic meatus was short or absent. Middle ear structures were delayed in differentiation, middle ear ossicle primordia were hypoplastic and malformed, the stapedial artery and facial nerve were hypoplastic, and their relation to the stapes was variable. In the inner ear, the otic capsule was thick, the cochlea had fewer turns and the semicircular ducts showed poor differentiation. 
Increased survival, limb preservation, and prognostic factors for osteosarcoma. Preoperative intraarterial (IA) cisplatin (CDP) was administered to 92 patients with nonmetastatic osteosarcoma. The ages of the patients ranged from 4 to 28 years. Sixty-four patients (70%) received 2 or 3 preoperative courses and 28 (30%) received 4 or more. Sixty-two specimens were available for pathologic examination to assess the degree of tumor necrosis. More than 90% tumor destruction was observed in 16 of 42 patients (38%) who received 1 to 3 preoperative courses as opposed to 17 of 20 (85%) who received 4 or more courses. Patients who received 4 or more courses had a 2-fold probability of achieving more than 90% tumor necrosis, and 68% underwent conservative surgery. Of those who received 3 or less courses, 23% underwent conservative surgery. Postoperatively, patients were treated with intravenous (IV) CDP alternating with doxorubicin (ADR) (Adriamycin, Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH). Pulmonary metastases developed in 36 patients, bone metastases in 2, and local recurrence in 6. Two patients died of cardiac failure without evidence of disease. Thus, 46 patients (50%) were continuously free of disease 18 to 78 months after diagnosis. Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that male sex, low grade preoperative chemotherapy-induced necrosis, and nonosteoblastic histologic condition were prognostic factors predictive of recurrence, while male sex and large tumor size were prognostic factors predictive of death. These results are comparable with those reported by other centers and are superior to our previous experiences that yielded survival rates of 5% to 10%. A substantial number of patients also had the opportunity to achieve tumor removal with conservative surgery. 
Effect of caffeine on ibuprofen analgesia in postoperative oral surgery pain. Recent studies have demonstrated that caffeine acts as an analgesic adjuvant when combined with acetaminophen, aspirin, or their mixture. Our objective was to determine whether similar enhancement of analgesia could be demonstrated when caffeine is combined with ibuprofen. On a double-blind basis, a single oral dose of ibuprofen (50, 100, or 200 mg), a combination of ibuprofen, 100 mg, with caffeine, 100 mg, a combination of ibuprofen, 200 mg, with caffeine, 100 mg, or placebo was randomly assigned to 298 outpatients with postoperative pain after the surgical removal of impacted third molars. With a self-rating record, subjects rated their pain and its relief hourly for 8 hours. All active treatments were significantly superior to placebo, and the caffeine effect was significant for every measure of analgesia. Relative potency estimates indicated that the combination was 2.4 to 2.8 times as potent as ibuprofen alone. The combination also had a more rapid onset and longer duration of analgesic action. The analgesic adjuvancy of caffeine clearly extends to combinations with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs other than acetaminophen or aspirin. 
Reduction of myocardial infarction after emergency coronary artery bypass grafting for failed coronary angioplasty with use of a normothermic reperfusion cardioplegia protocol. Emergency coronary artery bypass grafting is necessary in 2.7% to 13.5% of patients undergoing elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Myocardial infarction develops in 11% to 49% of these patients, with 18% to 46% of infarcts resulting in new Q waves. Since February 1987 a revised protocol for myocardial preservation has been used in 19 patients undergoing emergency bypass grafting for failed angioplasty. Cardioplegia is induced with a normothermic blood cardioplegic solution. Multiple maintenance doses of cold (4 degrees C) blood cardioplegic solution are then delivered through the aortic root and vein grafts. Before the aortic crossclamp is removed, normothermic reperfusion cardioplegic solution is delivered through the aortic root and vein grafts. This group was compared with all patients undergoing emergency bypass grafting for failed angioplasty before February 1987. These 45 patients received cold induction of cardioplegic solution, multiple maintenance doses of cold cardioplegic solution, and no reperfusion cardioplegic solution. The prevalence of myocardial infarction in the group receiving cold cardioplegic solution was 65% versus 26% in the group receiving normothermic cardioplegic solution (p less than 0.007). Multivariate analysis identified the use of the normothermic cardioplegia protocol (p less than 0.005), nontotal occlusion of the angioplasty vessel (p less than 0.03), and presence of collateral flow to the angioplasty vessel (p less than 0.04) as being independently associated with absence of myocardial infarction. 
A prospective study of hospitalization with gallstone disease among women: role of dietary factors, fasting period, and dieting. BACKGROUND: Dietary risk factors for the development of gallstones have not been clearly established. We analyzed data from a population-based prospective study to determine dietary risk factors for hospitalization with gallstone disease. METHODS: We evaluated the role of dietary constituents, fasting, and dieting on subsequent hospitalization with gallstone disease among 4,730 women, ages 25 to 74 years, who participated in the first follow-up of the first National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Baseline dietary variables were established through a 24-hour dietary recall and a medical history. Proportional hazards models were used to calculate the effects of dietary variables while controlling for baseline risk factors. RESULTS: After an average of 10 years follow-up, gallstone disease was confirmed by hospital records among 216 women who denied gallstone disease at the baseline examination. The hazard rate of hospitalization with gallstone disease increased with increasing overnight fasting period and with dieting. Intake of fiber showed a small protective effect. The effect of energy intake was significant only among women younger than age 50 years at baseline. Results were not affected by adjustment for known risk factors for gallstone disease or other dietary factors. CONCLUSION: A long overnight fasting period, dieting, and low fiber intake may increase the risk of hospitalization with gallstone disease. 
Helicobacter pylori in children with peptic ulcer and their families. Little is known about the source and spread of Helicobacter pylori, but transmission from infected family contacts has been suggested. We have therefore investigated 15 children with peptic ulcer and their first-degree relatives for H. pylori. Serum anti-H. pylori IgG, pepsinogen I, and gastrin levels were measured. Endoscopy was carried out on the children and relatives, and biopsies were taken from the gastric antrum for histology, microbiology, and urease testing. Six of 11 children with duodenal ulcer (55%) and two of four children with gastric ulcer (50%) were positive for H. pylori. Fourteen of 16 parents (87%) and eight of 13 siblings (61%) of H. pylori-positive children with peptic ulcer were also infected compared with eight of 14 parents (57%) and none of four siblings of H. pylori-negative children with peptic ulcer (P less than 0.10, greater than 0.05, and NS, respectively). The children with H. pylori-negative peptic ulcer and negative siblings combined were younger than positive children with peptic ulcer and positive siblings (P less than 0.001). The reliability of serum anti-H. pylori IgG level as a screening test for infection was confirmed. These findings call into question a pathogenetic role for H. pylori in some childhood peptic ulceration, but do suggest that person-to-person spread of infection occurs. 
Does body posture affect the incidence and mechanism of gastro-oesophageal reflux? We studied eight patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease to compare the frequency and mechanism of reflux in the upright and supine positions. Simultaneous oesophageal manometry and pH studies were performed on two separate days in each subject in the fasting and postprandial periods. The frequency of reflux tended to be higher in the upright position. The most prevalent mechanism of reflux in either position was transient relaxation of the lower oesophageal sphincter. The frequency of transient lower oesophageal sphincter relaxation was higher in the upright than in the supine position. There was no difference in the total reflux time, acid clearance time, and number of reflux episodes lasting longer than five minutes in the two positions. We suggest that daytime reflux (upright) may be as important as night time (supine) reflux in the pathogenesis of reflux oesophagitis and needs to be considered when treating patients with reflux disease. 
Association between infection with Helicobacter pylori and risk of gastric cancer: evidence from a prospective investigation. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the association between gastric cancer and prior infection with Helicobacter pylori. DESIGN--Case-control comparison of prevalence of IgG antibodies to H pylori in blood samples collected prospectively, before diagnosis of gastric cancer in the cases. Presence of H pylori antibody (greater than 10 micrograms IgG/ml) determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). SUBJECTS--29 men with a subsequent diagnosis of gastric cancer and 116 aged matched controls selected from over 22,000 middle aged men participating in two ongoing cohort studies (the British United Provident Association study and the Caerphilly collaborative heart disease study), who had provided blood samples during 1975-1982. RESULTS--20 of the 29 cases (69%) and 54 of the 116 controls (47%) were positive for H pylori specific antibody. The median specific IgG concentration was significantly higher in the cases than controls (90 micrograms/ml v 3.6 micrograms/ml, p less than 0.01). The estimated odds ratio for the risk of gastric cancer in those with a history of infection with H pylori was 2.77 (95% confidence interval 1.04 to 7.97, 2p = 0.039). CONCLUSIONS--H pylori infection may be an important cause of gastric cancer; between 35% and 55% of all cases may be associated with such an infection. 
Temporal profiles of urinary excretion of NH2-terminal big gastrin immunoreactivity in humans. We studied the temporal profile of urinary NH2-terminal big gastrin immunoreactivity (NT G-34-IR) excretion in order to evaluate the dynamics of gastrin secretion. The temporal profile of urinary NT G-34-IR excretion in normal subjects represented three peaks corresponding to each meal. In contrast, the profile in antrectomized patients and patients under total parenteral nutrition (TPN) represented a flat pattern. Urinary NT G-34-IR excretions during fasting 2-h periods in antrectomized patients and TPN patients were about one-sixth and one-third, respectively, of basal NT G-34-IR excretion in normal subjects (53.1 +/- 13.9 pmol/h). Total urinary NT G-34-IR excretion during 24 h both in antrectomized patients (220 +/- 35 pmol/24 h) and TPN patients (390 +/- 68 pmol/24 h) was also significantly lower than in normal subjects (1985 +/- 403 pmol/24 h). The present study showed that the main source of urinary NT G-34-IR is the gastric antrum, that the main factor fluctuating its excretion is food intake, and that long-term TPN reduces basal gastrin secretion. Urinary NT G-34-IR would be a useful indicator for total gastrin secretion. 
Myringoplasty in children. This series examines the results of myringoplasty in children using the overlay technique. Controversy still surrounds the issue of proper timing of surgery on the basis of preoperative assessment of tubal function. Results of this technique in children, using contralateral ear status as the primary predictor of success, found an overall success rate of 78%. Age appears to be a significant factor because children 10 years old and younger were found to have a higher incidence of surgical failures. 
Evolution of technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT and brain mapping in a patient presenting with echolalia and palilalia. A 78-yr-old woman presented with transient echolalia and palilalia. She had suffered from Parkinson's disease for 2 yr. Routine laboratory examination showed hypotonic hyponatremia, but was otherwise unremarkable. Brain mapping revealed a bifrontal delta focus, more pronounced on the right. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain with technetium-99m labeled d,l hexamethylpropylene-amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO), performed during the acute episode showed relative frontoparietal hypoactivity. Brain mapping performed after disappearance of the echolalia and palilalia, which persisted only for 1 day, was normal. By contrast, SPECT findings persisted for more than 3 wk. Features of particular interest in the presented patient are the extensive defects seen on brain SPECT despite the absence of morphologic lesions, the congruent electrophysiologic changes and their temporal relationship with the clinical evolution. 
Atrial natriuretic polypeptide inhibits hypertrophy of vascular smooth muscle cells. Vascular remodeling is central to the pathophysiology of hypertension and atherosclerosis. Recent evidence suggests that vasoconstrictive substances, such as angiotensin II (AII), may function as a vascular smooth muscle growth promoting substance. To explore the role of the counterregulatory hormone, atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) in this process, we examined the effect of ANP (alpha-rat ANP [1-28]) on the growth characteristics of cultured rat aortic smooth muscle (RASM) cells. ANP (10(-7) M) significantly suppressed the proliferative effect of 1% and 5% serum as measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation and cell number, confirming ANP as an antimitogenic factor. In quiescent RASM cells, ANP (10(-7), 10(-6) M) significantly suppressed the basal incorporations of 3H-uridine and leucine by 50 and 30%, respectively. ANP (10(-7), 10(-6) M) also suppressed AII-induced RNA and protein syntheses (by 30-40%) with the concomitant reduction of the cell size. Furthermore, ANP also significantly attenuated the increase of 3H-uridine and leucine incorporations caused by transforming growth factor-beta (4 x 10(-11), 4 x 10(-10) M), a potent hypertrophic factor. These results indicate that ANP possesses an antihypertrophic action on vascular smooth muscle cells. Down-regulation of protein kinase C by 24-h treatment with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate did not inhibit ANP-induced suppression on 3H-uridine incorporation. Based on the observation that ANP was more potent than a ring-deleted analogue of ANP on inhibiting 3H-uridine incorporation, we conclude that the ANP's inhibitory effect is primarily mediated via the activation of a guanylate cyclase-linked ANP receptor(s). Indeed 8-bromo cGMP mimicked the antihypertrophic action of ANP. Accordingly, we speculate that in addition to its vasorelaxant and natriuretic effects, the antihypertrophic action of ANP observed in the present study may serve as an additional compensatory mechanism of ANP in hypertension. 
Combination chemotherapy for advanced adenocarcinoma of the cervix. A patient with advanced adenocarcinoma of the cervix was treated only with cisplatin and mitomycin C (MMC). The regimen achieved a complete response, confirmed by chest radiograph and computed axial tomography scan, lasting 50 months. The patient is alive with recurrent disease 59 months after diagnosis. No severe drug-related toxicity occurred. 
Carotid endarterectomy in elderly patients Between 1971 and 1989, 749 carotid endarterectomies were performed at our institution for symptomatic carotid occlusive disease in patients older than 70 years of age. Of these procedures, 693 were done in patients 71 through 80 years of age, and 56 were done in patients between the ages of 81 and 90 years. The neurologic morbidity and perioperative mortality in the former group were 2.9% and 1.4%, respectively, whereas in the latter group the corresponding values were 5.4% and 0%, respectively. For the entire group, the neurologic morbidity was 3.1% and the mortality was 1.3%. Of the 23 new postoperative neurologic deficits, 19 (83%) occurred in high-risk patients with severe preoperative neurologic or medical risks, and 14 (61%) of these deficits were minor. In selected elderly patients with symptomatic hemodynamically significant carotid occlusive disease, endarterectomy seems to be a safe procedure that is associated with acceptably low perioperative morbidity and mortality. 
Routine programmed electrical stimulation in survivors of acute myocardial infarction for prediction of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias during follow-up: results, optimal stimulation protocol and cost-effective screening Of 3,286 consecutive patients treated for acute myocardial infarction, electrophysiologic testing was performed in 1,209 survivors (37%) free of significant complications at the time of hospital discharge to determine their risk of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias during follow-up. Sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was inducible by programmed electrical stimulation in 75 (6.2%). Antiarrhythmic therapy was not routinely prescribed regardless of the test results. During the 1st year of follow-up, 14 infarct survivors (19%) with inducible ventricular tachycardia experienced spontaneous ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation in the absence of new ischemia compared with 34 (2.9%) of those without inducible ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.0005). During the extended follow-up period (median 28 months) of those with inducible ventricular tachycardia, 19 (25%) had a spontaneous electrical event; 37% of these first events were fatal. These results suggest that the most cost-effective strategy for predicting arrhythmia will be obtained by restricting electrophysiologic testing to infarct survivors whose left ventricular ejection fraction is less than 40% and using a stimulation protocol containing four extrastimuli. Electrophysiologic testing is the single best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias during follow-up in infarct survivors. The majority (94%) with a negative test benefit from the more reliable reassurance that all is well, whereas the 25% risk of electrical events in those with inducible ventricular tachycardia justifies a prospective trial of effective prophylactic antiarrhythmic interventions. 
Omega-3 fatty acids in health and disease and in growth and development. Several sources of information suggest that man evolved on a diet with a ratio of omega 6 to omega 3 fatty acids of approximately 1 whereas today this ratio is approximately 10:1 to 20-25:1, indicating that Western diets are deficient in omega 3 fatty acids compared with the diet on which humans evolved and their genetic patterns were established. Omega-3 fatty acids increase bleeding time; decrease platelet aggregation, blood viscosity, and fibrinogen; and increase erythrocyte deformability, thus decreasing the tendency to thrombus formation. In no clinical trial, including coronary artery graft surgery, has there been any evidence of increased blood loss due to ingestion of omega 3 fatty acids. Many studies show that the effects of omega 3 fatty acids on serum lipids depend on the type of patient and whether the amount of saturated fatty acids in the diet is held constant. In patients with hyperlipidemia, omega 3 fatty acids decrease low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol if the saturated fatty acid content is decreased, otherwise there is a slight increase, but at high doses (32 g) they lower LDL cholesterol; furthermore, they consistently lower serum triglycerides in normal subjects and in patients with hypertriglyceridemia whereas the effect on high-density lipoprotein (HDL) varies from no effect to slight increases. The discrepancies between animal and human studies most likely are due to differences between animal and human metabolism. In clinical trials eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in the form of fish oils along with antirheumatic drugs improve joint pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis; have a beneficial effect in patients with ulcerative colitis; and in combination with drugs, improve the skin lesions, lower the hyperlipidemia from etretinates, and decrease the toxicity of cyclosporin in patients with psoriasis. In various animal models omega 3 fatty acids decrease the number and size of tumors and increase the time elapsed before appearance of tumors. Studies with nonhuman primates and human newborns indicate that DHA is essential for the normal functional development of the retina and brain, particularly in premature infants. Because omega 3 fatty acids are essential in growth and development throughout the life cycle, they should be included in the diets of all humans. Omega-3 and omega 6 fatty acids are not interconvertible in the human body and are important components of practically all cell membranes. Whereas cellular proteins are genetically determined, the polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) composition of cell membranes is to a great extent dependent on the dietary intake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Abdominal wall tenderness: a useful sign in chronic abdominal pain. The outcome in 72 patients with obscure abdominal pain and a positive Carnett's (abdominal wall tenderness) test, seen in one firm's surgical outpatient clinic between 1975 and 1983, was sought by a combination of hospital note retrieval and general practitioner questionnaire. Full follow-up data to date or death were available for 58 (81 per cent) patients and partial follow-up for 14 patients. The study showed that the patients generated a good deal of investigation and a number of surgical procedures but that seldom were their symptoms attributable to serious pathology. Familiarity with the test, taken in the context of a proper history and examination, has been found helpful in assessing such patients and saves the inconvenience, expense and occasional hazard of investigation, and even surgery. 
Characteristics of cirrhosis undiagnosed during life: a comparative analysis of 73 undiagnosed cases and 149 diagnosed cases of cirrhosis, detected in 4929 consecutive autopsies. In 4929 consecutive autopsies performed during a period of 4 years, 222 cases (4.5%) of cirrhosis were found, of which 149 (3%) were detected while the patients were alive (diagnosed cirrhosis) and 73 (1.5%) were not detected while the patients were living (undiagnosed cirrhosis). Fifty-three of the 73 undiagnosed patients appeared to be completely without signs of cirrhosis (silent cirrhosis). In the diagnosed group, 70% of patients died from hepatic causes, in contrast to 16% in the undiagnosed group. At autopsy, the following complications of cirrhosis were found more frequently in the diagnosed group than in the undiagnosed group: ascites (41% vs. 8%), oesophageal varices (44% vs. 10%), splenomegaly (52% vs. 29%). The prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma did not differ significantly in the two groups (12% vs. 8%). It is concluded that cirrhosis without obvious signs occurs relatively frequently, and that no sensitive non-invasive screening methods are available at present. 
Cerebrovascular accident complicating acute myocardial infarction: incidence, clinical significance and short- and long-term mortality rates. The SPRINT Study Group. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to report the incidence, the antecedents, and the clinical significance of clinically recognized cerebrovascular accidents or transient ischemic attacks (CVA-TIA) complicating acute myocardial infarction. PATIENTS AND METHODS: During 1981 to 1983, a secondary prevention study with nifedipine (SPRINT) was conducted in 14 hospitals in Israel among 2,276 survivors of acute myocardial infarction. During the study, demographic, historical, and medical data were collected on special forms for all patients with diagnosed acute myocardial infarction in 13 of these 14 hospitals (the SPRINT registry, n = 5,839). Mortality follow-up was completed for 99% of hospital survivors for a mean follow-up of 5.5 years (range: 4.5 to 7 years). RESULTS: The incidence of CVA-TIA was 0.9% (54 of 5,839). The latter rate increased significantly only with age, from 0.4% among patients up to 59 years old to 1.6% among those aged greater than or equal to 70 years. Multivariate analysis identified age, congestive heart failure, and history of stroke as predictors of CVA-TIA during the acute phase of myocardial infarction. Patients with CVA-TIA exhibited a complicated hospital course, with a 15-day mortality rate of 41%. Subsequent mortality rates in survivors at 1 and 5 years were 34% and 59%, respectively. Rates at the same time points in patients without CVA-TIA were 16%, 11%, and 29% (p less than 0.01). In a multivariate analysis that included age, gender, congestive heart failure, history of previous myocardial infarction, and hypertension, CVA-TIA was independently associated with increased 15-day mortality (covariate-adjusted odds ratio [OR] = 2.62; 90% confidence interval [CI], 1.59 to 4.32), as well as subsequent 1-year (OR = 3.29; 90% CI, 1.70 to 6.36) and long-term (mean follow-up = 5.5 years) mortality (OR = 2.46; 90% CI, 1.30 to 4.69). CONCLUSION: In this large cohort of consecutive patients with myocardial infarction, CVA-TIA was a relatively infrequent complication of acute myocardial infarction. Factors independently favoring the occurrence of CVA-TIA were old age, previous CVA, and congestive heart failure. CVA-TIA occurring during acute myocardial infarction independently increased the risk of early death threefold as well as the risk of long-term mortality in early-phase survivors. (2.5-fold). 
The inheritance of alcohol consumption patterns in a general population twin sample: I. Multidimensional scaling of quantity/frequency data. Quantity/frequency data on alcohol consumption were obtained by mailed questionnaire from 2,903 same-sex monozygotic and dizygotic Australian twin pairs. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling was applied to these data. A three-dimensional solution was required to account for the observed pattern of twin concordances for alcohol consumption. These results suggest separate determination of abstinence, frequency of consumption and quantity consumed when drinking, rather than inheritance of a single continuum of overall consumption level. 
In-flight esophageal variceal bleeding en route for liver transplantation: a case report and review of the literature. Esophageal variceal bleeding owing to portal hypertension is a potential threat in pediatric patients awaiting liver transplantation. We report a case of a three-year-old boy with severe congenital hepatic fibrosis, Caroli's disease, and portal hypertension who developed a life-threatening variceal hemorrhage for the first time in his life during commercial air transport to a liver transplantation center. Factors precipitating variceal bleeding are discussed, particularly those resulting from changes in altitude. It is recommended that prophylactic treatment for variceal bleeding be at least considered in children awaiting liver transplantation prior to prolonged air transportation. Because of differences in capabilities of treatment providers in various locales, and because there are as yet no conclusive data, the treatment of choice must be decided on an individual basis. Equipment for treating in-flight hemorrhage should be available. 
Leiomyosarcoma of the trachea. Case report. Leiomyosarcoma of the trachea is a rare primary tumor of the upper airway. Twelve cases have been reported in the English-language literature. Our experience with a patient with leiomyosarcoma of the cervical trachea is presented. The classic symptoms, diagnosis, and surgical management of this case are contrasted with those of the previously reported cases. The surgical technique used for our patient, primary tumor resection with skin grafting and placement of a Montgomery Laryngeal Stent, is a unique and effective treatment. 
Midterm follow-up of young patients fused in situ for spondylolisthesis. To evaluate the results of posterolateral fusion alone (66 patients) and combined posterolateral and anterior fusion (39 patients) in situ, 105 consecutive patients younger than 25 years of age with spondylolisthesis, retrospectively were examined clinically and radiologically. The follow-up rate was 98% after a mean of 8.2 years (range, 2.0-15.3). Pre- and postoperative progression of slip was rare (6% and 1%, respectively), and no prognostic factors were found. The definite pseudarthrosis rate was 6%. In patients with low- and high-grade slip, 67% and 88% (respectively) were satisfied at follow-up, suggesting that the indication for operative treatment in patients with low-grade slip is relative. 
Radioimmunoassay of insulin-like growth factors in cyst fluid of central nervous system tumors. Tumor cells are characterized by abnormalities in growth and metabolism, including the autocrine secretion of certain growth factors. The authors have previously shown the presence of insulin-like growth factor receptors in tumors of the central nervous system (CNS) and in this study examine whether CNS tumors are capable of autocrine secretion of insulin-like growth factors in situ. To investigate the production of insulin-like growth factors I and II by CNS tumors, the authors have developed specific radioimmunoassays for these growth factors. In situ production of insulin-like growth factors was studied by immunoassay of CNS tumor cyst fluid aspirated at the time of surgery from 12 cystic tumors: seven primary brain tumors, four metastatic tumors, and one spinal schwannoma. For immunoassay, cyst fluid was treated overnight with acetic acid, then insulin-like growth factors were separated from binding proteins by a refined solid-phase technique, then dried and reconstituted in immunoassay buffer. Normal human serum and cerebrospinal fluid served as controls. Insulin-like growth factor I was detected in all 12 tumors studied. In contrast, insulin-like growth factor II was detected only in three low-grade astrocytomas, the spinal schwannoma (which had the highest insulin-like growth factor II level of all tumors studied), and three metastatic lung cancers. These results suggest that CNS tumors may be capable of autocrine production of insulin-like growth factors in situ. Furthermore, there appears to be a difference in the type of insulin-like growth factors produced by different types of CNS tumors. Preferential production of insulin-like growth factors may be an important marker of tumor differentiation and useful as a diagnostic tool. 
Cardiac angiosarcoma with ruptured right atrium diagnosed by echocardiography. A 41-year-old man was admitted to our hospital complaining of right-sided chest pain. Two-dimensional echocardiographic examination revealed a ruptured right atrium and a localized pericardial effusion. Color Doppler echocardiography and contrast echocardiography showed blood flow from the right atrium into pericardial effusion, which was confirmed at emergency surgery. The pathologic specimen from the right atrium showed a spindle cell angiosarcoma. 
Experimental hepatocellular carcinoma: MR receptor imaging. Relaxation time measurements and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging were performed in three different animal models of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). After intravenous administration of asialoglycoprotein-directed arabinogalactan-stabilized ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (10 mumol Fe/kg receptor agent), T2 of normal liver decreased from 41.6 msec +/- 1.0 to 19.4 msec +/- 1.7 (P less than .05) in rats. T2 of HCC implanted in normal liver or liver with chronic hepatitis was essentially unchanged. These results were similar to those obtained by administration of a reticuloendothelial cell-directed conventional iron oxide; however, the required dose of receptor agent was lower. MR imaging in a woodchuck model of virally induced HCC confirmed the distribution of the hepatocyte-directed agent to regions of functioning and differentiated hepatocytes but not to malignant tumor tissue. The results suggest that MR receptor imaging may play a role in the differentiation between primary liver tumor and functional liver tissue such as that in normal liver hepatitis or regenerating nodules. 
Histology of aural polyp as a predictor of middle ear disease activity. This study compares the histology of aural polyp with the subsequent clinical course of the middle ear disease. All cases of aural polyps that presented to the department during 1988 and 1989 were included. Patients who had previous ear surgery were excluded as were cases where the operation was part of clearance of known cholesteatoma rather than polypectomy alone. We found that the histology of the aural polyp was not a precise predictor of the presence or absence of cholesteatoma, nor of the subsequent course of the middle ear disease. 
Effect of dialysis membrane and patient's age on signs of dialysis-related amyloidosis. The Working Party on Dialysis Amyloidosis. This 12 center study was designed to assess factors affecting the development and progression of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis in long-term dialysis. A total of 221 patients who were on hemodialysis for more than five years, and who were treated the entire time only with AN69, a biocompatible, highly permeable membrane, or cuprophane, a less permeable, poorly biocompatible membrane (Cell) were evaluated for time on dialysis, development of carpal tunnel syndrome, and cystic bone lesions. X-ray documentation was taken in a minimum of four of the six following joints: both hips, wrists and shoulders. The data demonstrate that patients treated solely by AN69 membranes display signs of bone amyloidosis less frequently than do those treated by Cell membranes. Age at onset of dialysis was found to have a striking correlation with the development of carpal tunnel syndrome and bone amyloidosis, while no significant influence was found for hyperparathyroidism, sex or year of first dialysis. 
Color Doppler sonography in the evaluation of erectile dysfunction: patterns of temporal response to papaverine. Most studies of duplex Doppler sonography for the assessment of erectile dysfunction involve determination of peak systolic velocities 5 min after intracavernosal injection of papaverine. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of the timing of Doppler measurements of flow after papaverine injection for establishing the presence of arterial and venous abnormalities. Color Doppler sonography was performed in 75 patients for evaluation of vasculogenic impotence. After intracavernosal injection of 60 mg of papaverine, measurements of peak systolic and end-diastolic velocities were obtained in each cavernosal artery at 5-min intervals for a total of 30 min. A peak systolic velocity of less than 25 cm/sec was used as the threshold for arterial insufficiency. An end-diastolic velocity of greater than 5 cm/sec was used to predict venous incompetence. Scanning was performed for direct assessment of dorsal venous flow. Thirty patients were subsequently evaluated by cavernosometry and cavernosography. In most patients (76%), maximum response to papaverine was achieved within the first 5 min. In eight patients, significant increases in systolic velocity were seen only after 5 min. In 10 patients, significant changes in end-diastolic velocity between 5 and 30 min resulted in diagnostic reclassification. Data acquisition for 30 min significantly improved the sensitivity (95%) and specificity (83%) for the prediction of venous incompetence in patients with correlative cavernosography. Transient, early dorsal vein flow was noted in normal subjects. Persistent dorsal vein flow had an 80% sensitivity and 100% specificity for venous incompetence. Our results suggest that, when using color Doppler sonography, gathering data for 30 min may improve the prediction of vasculogenic impotence. 
Total coronary occlusion: a different animal? Provided collateralization is adequate, a chronic total coronary occlusion clinically imitates a 90% stenosis but is exempt from the risk of myocardial infarction. For angioplasty of vessels with chronic total coronary occlusion, technical difficulties and clinical risks are balanced against projected subjective benefit and amount of viable myocardium concerned. The primary success rate is approximately 65% and complications are rare because abrupt vessel reclosure may be common but is harmless. New Q wave infarction in that context has not been reported. The duration of occlusion is the most important predictor of success. The length of the occluded segment is also important. Recurrence averages 68% (21% reocclusion and 47% restenosis) and happens typically within 6 months. The high recurrence rate is due to competitive pressure exerted by collateral vessels and an often suboptimal local result. Even if the primary success rate of angioplasty in vessels with chronic total coronary occlusion can be improved by advanced technology and skill, the clinical yield will remain low compared with that of angioplasty of stenoses. Because low yield procedures must be low risk and low cost, there are definite limits to how sophisticated, risky and expensive new techniques can become. Derivatives of conventional balloon systems are likely to remain the equipment of first choice, perhaps complemented by mechanical drills. Although chronic total coronary occlusions are no clinical menace in contrast to stenoses, they frequently deserve revascularization and are the reason to select bypass surgery over angioplasty. These factors justify endeavors to improve recanalization techniques that help to refine coronary angioplasty of nontotal lesions, because total occlusion, albeit a different animal, is of the same species. 
Chronic abacterial prostatitis and hyperthermia. A possible new treatment? A group of 45 patients with chronic abacterial prostatitis or prostatodynia underwent 6 weekly, 1-hour sessions of local deep microwave hyperthermia (42.5 +/- 0.5 degrees C) to the prostate. All patients had a long history of symptoms typical of the condition. They all failed to respond to a variety of conventional treatments administered over several years by various specialists. Each patient served as his own control before and after the hyperthermic treatment. The results of this study are encouraging: 25% showed a sustained and complete loss of symptoms and 50% had a partial response; the remaining 25% reported no improvement. These results open up new possibilities in the treatment of this condition, which has so far responded poorly to conventional therapy. 
Clinical decision making of critical care nurses managing computer-simulated tachydysrhythmias. The purposes of this study were to describe the clinical decision making of critical care nurses managing computer-simulated tachydysrhythmias and to assess the major sources of error related to the management of two tachydysrhythmias: atrial flutter and ventricular tachycardia. In this descriptive study, 142 critical care nurses each completed four computerized clinical simulations (two atrial flutter and two ventricular tachycardia). Simulation performance was measured by proficiency score (comparison with expert performance), patient outcome (cure or die), and amount of data collected before the first intervention. Mean proficiency scores were 51% for atrial flutter and 35% for ventricular tachycardia. Thirteen percent of the atrial flutter and 35% of the ventricular tachycardia simulations ended in patient death. Failure to recognize ventricular tachycardia and unfamiliarity with second- and third-line treatments were major sources of error. Medication errors were the cause of death in 87% of the simulations ending in patient death. These results document the need for emphasis on dysrhythmia management in the critical care curriculum. 
Quadrantic visual field defects. A hallmark of lesions in extrastriate (V2/V3) cortex. We report 2 patients with homonymous quadrantic visual field defects. The first patient experienced scintillations in the left lower quadrant, leading to the discovery of an astrocytoma in the cuneus of the right occipital lobe. Postoperatively she had a left lower quadrantanopia that precisely respected the horizontal meridian. The second patient presented with a left lower quadrantanopia, sparing the central 10 degrees of vision that also respected the horizontal meridian. An astrocytoma was resected from the right upper peristriate cortex. We must explain how a lesion in extrastriate cortex produced a homonymous field defect with a sharp horizontal edge in these 2 patients. Areas V2 and V3 are each divided along the horizontal meridian into separate halves flanking striate cortex. Consequently, the upper and lower quadrants in extrastriate cortex are physically isolated on opposite sides of striate cortex. We propose that a lesion involving V2/V3 may be sufficient to create a visual field defect. Although the lesion may have irregular margins, if it crosses the representation of the horizontal meridian in extrastriate cortex, it will produce a quadrantic visual field defect with a sharp horizontal border because of the split layout of the upper and lower quadrants in V2/V3. 
Hypoechoic lesions in fatty liver. Quantitative study by histomorphometry. Ten patients with fatty liver changes were subjected to liver biopsies. In seven, ultrasonography showed focal hypoechogenicity within a "bright" liver, generally interpreted as focal sparing. Three patients had hyperechoic areas surrounded by "normal" parenchyma usually felt to represent local fat accumulation without diffuse involvement. Morphometric analysis was used to determine the total area occupied by fat (area density) and the number of lipid droplets (numerical density) per microscopic field in lesional and perilesional specimens. Compared with respective perilesional values, hypoechoic lesional numerical densities were significantly lower in 6 of 7 patients; the three hyperechoic samples had significantly higher values. In most cases, lesional and perilesional area densities were not significantly different. These hypoechoic focal lesions are believed to be merely areas in which a similar quantity of fat is contained in fewer droplets, and focal hyperechogenicity is believed to result from a larger number of fat-filled vacuoles with respect to that of the surrounding parenchyma. Variation in the number of solid-liquid interfaces causes the ultrasonic contrast between these lesions and the similarity fatty liver parenchyma surrounding them. 
Continuous ambulatory ECG monitoring in the perioperative period: relationship of preoperative status and outcome. We have used continuous ambulatory electrocardiography in the perioperative period to monitor 108 patients with known cardiovascular disease undergoing non-cardiac surgery. There was a high incidence of ischaemic ST segment changes and ventricular arrhythmias. For the group as a whole, anaesthesia and surgery were followed by increased ventricular ectopic activity, but did not worsen myocardial ischaemia. However, the mean duration of ischaemic ST segment changes was increased significantly in those patients with treated hypertension. Of the risk factors considered, preoperative ischaemia and peroperative systolic arterial pressure were significant correlates with postoperative myocardial ischaemia. 
Diagnostic value of measurement of serum type I procollagen carboxy terminal peptides in patients with scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach. We have evaluated the radioimmunoassay for type I procollagen carboxy terminal peptide (type I C-peptide), which is liberated from type I procollagen during its conversion to collagen, in the serodiagnosis of scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach. The mean (SD) serum concentration of type I C-peptide in 39 normal subjects was 41.7 (19.7) ng/ml. The mean serum values and the positive ratio of type I C-peptide in 11 patients with stages II and III scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach were 91.2 (41.9) ng/ml and 54.5%, respectively. In 10 patients with other types of gastric carcinoma, the mean type I C-peptide values were not significantly different from the normal value. Serum type I C-peptide values reflected the clinical course of scirrhous gastric carcinoma in five patients who underwent either operation or chemotherapy. The measurement of serum type I C-peptide concentrations could provide a useful way of diagnosing and monitoring scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach. 
Effects of time required for reperfusion (thrombolysis or angioplasty, or both) and location of acute myocardial infarction on left ventricular functional reserve capacity several months later. The purpose of this study was to determine whether reperfusion of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, or both, would improve left ventricular (LV) function when it is measured several months later at rest or maximal bicycle exercise, or both. Radionuclide angiography was performed in 44 patients 5 months (range 6 weeks to 9 months) after AMI to assess function, and tomographic myocardial thallium-201 imaging was performed at maximal exercise and delayed rest to determine whether there was any evidence of myocardial ischemia. As expected, no patient had chest pain or redistribution of a thallium defect during the exercise test, because patients had undergone angioplasty (n = 28) or coronary bypass graft surgery (n = 5) where clinically indicated for revascularization. The LV ejection fraction was plotted as a function of the time elapsed between the onset of chest pain and the time when coronary angiography confirmed patency of the infarct-related artery (achieved in 91% of 44 patients by rt-PA [n = 31] or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty [n = 9] ). Functional responses differed markedly between patients with anterior (n = 20) versus inferior (n = 24) wall AMI. LV ejection fraction during exercise correlated with time to reperfusion in patients with an anterior wall AMI (r = -0.58; standard error of the estimate = 11.9%; p less than 0.02) but not in patients with an inferior AMI (r = 0.10; standard error of the estimate = 13.1%; difference not significant. 
Cryosurgery in 50 cases of tongue carcinoma. From March 1975 to October 1985, 50 patients with primary tongue carcinoma were treated by cryosurgery. Forty-seven had squamous cell carcinoma, and 3 had other types of malignant tumors. The TNM clinical classification showed 12 patients with T1 lesions, 35 with T2, and 3 with T3. All patients were treated by cryosurgery in the outpatient clinic under local anesthesia. Three weeks after the primary tumors were controlled cryosurgically, 48 patients underwent radical neck dissections. All patients were observed for 3 to 10 years. After cryosurgery, the primary lesion disappeared in 45 (90%) patients; 5 were not controlled. The 3- and 5-year survival rates were 71.9% (23/32) and 72.3% (13/18), respectively. The recurrence rate in this series was 10% (5/50). Cryosurgery for tongue carcinoma was shown to be effective and safe. 
Successful combined operation for Takayasu's arteritis. We report a case of Takayasu's arteritis complicated with aortic regurgitation and severe stenosis of the left coronary ostium and the innominate artery. Simultaneous surgical treatment of aortic valve replacement, coronary ostium endarterectomy, and aortosubclavian artery bypass using saphenous vein were performed. We discuss the choice of simultaneous operation and the option of surgical treatment for coronary ostium lesion due to Takayasu's arteritis. 
Morphologic features and nuclide composition of infarction-associated cardiac myocyte mineralization in humans. Low dietary Mg results in Ca loading of cardiac myocytes, which increases the likelihood of myocyte calcification in the event of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), and possibly increases myocyte vulnerability to necrosis. Bloom and Peric-Golia1 previously reported an autopsy study of cases from the Washington, D.C. area (a region with low levels of Mg in the drinking water), demonstrating AMI-associated mineralization in myocytes with histologically normal nuclei and cross striations, as well as in obviously necrotic myocytes. The authors have re-examined mineralized myocytes from the same autopsy material, using electron probe microanalysis, light microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Microprobe analysis identified Ca and P as the nuclides composing the inorganic phase of the mineral deposits. Ultrastructurally, all Ca deposits, regardless of size or intracellular location, were composed of aggregates of needlelike hydroxyapatite crystals. The mildest form of intracellular Ca deposition was observed as small Ca deposits limited to some mitochondria of myocytes, which demonstrated intact nuclei and regular sarcomere pattern. More advanced stages of intracellular calcification, in the form of Ca deposits associated with mitochondria, Z-band regions and nuclei, were observed in other myocytes that also retained intact nuclei and sarcomeres. Massive Ca deposits were associated with myocytes which showed morphologic features of advanced necrosis, including loss of nuclei, disruption of sarcomere structure and masses of cellular debris. These observations support the theory originally proposed by Bloom and Peric-Golia1 suggesting that Ca loading of myocytes, possibly related to Mg deficiency in humans, increased vulnerability of the myocytes to subsequent AMI-associated necrosis and dystrophic calcification. In addition, the light microscopic impression of calcification of otherwise normal myocytes is contradicted by the electron microscopic identification of hydroxyapatite crystals free in the sarcoplasm, a condition unlikely to be compatible with viability. Lastly, the fact that all Ca deposits were in the form of hydroxyapatite supports the view that they were formed in a Mg-poor environment, which favors conversion of the more common amorphous form of Ca phosphate into the needlelike crystals of hydroxyapatite. 
Nd:YAG laser and photodynamic therapy for esophageal and endobronchial tumors under general and local anesthesia. Effects on arterial blood gas levels. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to determine the respiratory and acid-base metabolism response to endoscopic laser surgery for obstructive tumors, as related to the duration and different types of endoscopy, anesthesia, and laser treatment. DESIGN: The design was a case-control, cohort analytic, nonrandomized controlled survey of case series before and after endoscopic procedures. SETTING: A referral-based surgery and oncology practice at one hospital's laser center. PATIENTS: We studied a sequential sample of 82 patients in the age range from 35 to 92 years, with malignant and benign, primary and metastatic, partially and completely obstructing esophageal (15 patients) and endobronchial (67 patients) tumors. INTERVENTIONS: A total of 229 diagnostic, laser treatment, and follow-up endoscopic procedures was performed under general or local anesthesia (46 esophagoscopies and 183 bronchoscopies). The latter group consisted of 29 cases of general and 154 cases of local topical anesthesia. The last group involved 37 diagnostic and toilet bronchoscopies, 86 cases of YAG-laser tumor ablation, and 31 cases of PDT. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Direct-reading electrode measurements of arterial blood, sampled before and immediately after the endoscopic procedure, revealed statistically significant (p less than 0.001) increases in PaCO2 (200 of 229 cases) and decreases in pH (195 of 229 cases) and PaO2 (215 of 229 cases). These findings were similar after bronchoscopy and esophagoscopy, general and local anesthesia (only the decrease in pH was less pronounced in the latter case), and explorative endoscopies and different laser treatments and did not correlate with the total duration of the procedure within the wide time range of 7 to 210 minutes. The initial preoperative level of PaCO2 was considerably higher and the level of PaO2 was significantly lower in patients with endobronchial tumors, as compared to patients with esophageal cancer. A strong, inverse linear relationship was found between the perioperative changes in PaO2 and its initial level and between PaCO2 and pH changes. CONCLUSIONS: The PDT for esophageal and endobronchial malignancies is no more harmful for acid-base metabolism and respiratory functions than YAG-laser tumor ablation or any other common, nonlaser endoscopic procedure. 
Comparison of restorative proctocolectomy with and without covering ileostomy in ulcerative colitis. The experience of restorative proctocolectomy for ulcerative colitis is reported in 16 consecutive patients with no covering ileostomy (group 2) in comparison with 15 patients with a covering stoma (group 1); in each group a J pouch was constructed. All patients had pre- and postoperative clinical and manometric evaluations of the functional result up to 12 months. There were no deaths or permanent failures. The number of early complications was four in each group. Re-ileostomy was needed in one patient of group 1, and an ileostomy was constructed in three patients of group 2. At 1 year after operation the functional results did not differ between groups 1 and 2 in terms of daily frequency of defaecation (mean 5.6 and 5.4 in 24 h respectively), or in terms of anal basal or maximal squeeze pressures. There was a significant (P less than 0.01) saving in total hospital stay (median 11 days) and in operating theatre time (mean 41 min) in patients with no covering ileostomy. It is concluded that a covering ileostomy may be unnecessary in restorative proctocolectomy, at least in suitable cases with no technical difficulty at the time of operation. 
Does the retrocecal position of the vermiform appendix alter the clinical course of acute appendicitis? A prospective analysis. Ninety-four adult patients undergoing appendectomy for acute appendicitis were prospectively studied during a 2-year period. Patients were divided into retrocecal (group 1; n = 27 [29%]) and anterior (group 2; n = 67 [71%]) groups according to the position of the appendix. There was no statistical difference between the two groups in duration of symptoms, presenting signs and symptoms, and initial white blood cell count. Furthermore, retrocecal appendicitis was not associated with a higher rate of perforation or increased morbidity. We conclude that the retrocecal position of the appendix does not alter the presentation of appendicitis. 
Paired comparisons of efficacy of intravenous and oral procainamide in patients with inducible sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Thirty-eight patients who had inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia during baseline programmed electrical stimulation underwent electrophysiologic testing after both intravenous and oral administration of procainamide. Each had presented clinically with documented sustained ventricular tachycardia or out of hospital cardiac arrest not associated with acute myocardial infarction. In 23 patients (61%) (Group I) the arrhythmia became noninducible during an intravenous infusion of procainamide. Oral procainamide was subsequently administered and retesting was carried out after dose titration to match plasma concentration at the end of the intravenous study. Among the 23 patients in Group I the mean (+/- SD) plasma procainamide level was 7.2 +/- 2.8 micrograms/ml after intravenous dosing and 7.9 +/- 2.5 micrograms/ml after oral dosing (p = 0.09). In 15 (65%) of the 23 patients, sustained ventricular arrhythmia was inducible on oral therapy with comparable plasma procainamide levels (intravenous = 6.3 +/- 2.1 micrograms/ml, oral = 7.5 +/- 2.1 micrograms/ml). The other eight patients (35%) had concordant responses to repeat testing with comparable intravenous (mean 9.0 +/- 3.3 micrograms/ml) and oral (8.8 +/- 3.1 micrograms/ml) plasma procainamide levels. In the additional 15 patients (Group II) sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia remained inducible on intravenous procainamide therapy and the patients were retested on oral therapy with similar plasma concentration (p = 0.05). In seven patients (47%) sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia was noninducible on treatment with oral procainamide (mean plasma level 7.6 +/- 2.7 micrograms/ml) after failure of intravenous procainamide (mean plasma level 10.3 +/- 2.3 micrograms/ml). 
Effect of risk status on treatment criteria. Implications of hypertension trials. When deciding whether to treat a patient with hypertension, clinicians must balance the benefit of treatment against its adverse effects. In the absence of an interaction, the multiplicative model of risk implies that the absolute benefit of treatment is related to the underlying risk of an adverse outcome. Thus, each additional risk factor multiplies the absolute benefit of treating hypertension. Analyses of data from subgroups in clinical trials of hypertension treatment suggest that this model is usually valid. In contrast, the adverse effects of treatment are usually unrelated to other risk factors. Thus, the cutoff point for treatment differs in different individuals: setting a single treatment threshold and goal for the entire population is not appropriate. Patients who are at high absolute risk because of prior coronary artery disease or other risk factors have a greater potential absolute benefit, and such patients deserve a low threshold and goal, such as a diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg. Conversely, persons at low risk, such as white women without other risk factors, do not require such aggressive management. 
Virological investigations of acute encephalopathy in India A total of 740 consecutive children aged between 6 months and 12 years who presented with acute encephalopathic illnesses during a three year period were assessed both clinically and by laboratory investigations. Cerebrospinal fluid was examined for the presence of cells or other abnormal substances, and any organisms were cultured. Blood examination included white cell count and estimations of haemoglobin, urea, glucose, and electrolyte concentrations and serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. A firm diagnosis was established in 278 patients (38%). Pyogenic meningitis (n = 134), measles encephalopathy (n = 38), and electrolyte imbalance (n = 23) were important causes in this group, cerebral malaria (n = 4) was uncommon and there were no cases of Reye's syndrome. The diagnoses of the remaining 462 were combined under the heading 'acute unexplained encephalopathy'. Altogether 394 of the 462 patients underwent virological investigations for arboviruses and 92 (23%) had one or more indicators of Japanese encephalitis. No other arboviruses could be isolated. Throat swabs from 187 patients with acute unexplained encephalopathy were studied on monkey kidney tissue cell lines of which 14 were positive (8%). These were identified as adenovirus, parainfluenza, influenza, poliomyelitis, Coxsackie, and echovirus; in two cases the virus was untypable. Japanese encephalitis is an important cause of acute childhood encephalopathy in this region. Clinical features of the illness may be mimicked by several disorders which require specific treatment. Thirty four of the 92 died (37%). 
Cladosporium trichoides cerebral phaeohyphomycosis in a liver transplant recipient. Report of a case. Cerebral phaeohyphomycosis (also referred to as cerebral chromomycosis), one of the diseases caused by the dematiaceous (black) fungi, is most commonly caused by Cladosporium trichoides (referred to by some as Xylohypha bantiana) and is a rare disease, with 31 culture-proven cases reported to date. Although most cases have occurred in immunocompetent hosts, recent experimental evidence suggests that host immunosuppression may predispose patients to the disease. The authors report a case of fatal cerebral phaeohyphomycosis in a liver transplant patient, the first to occur in a transplant patient of any type, to the best of the authors' knowledge. This case provides support for the hypothesis that immunosuppressed patients may be at increased risk for development of this disease. 
Endoprosthetic replacement for stage IIB osteosarcoma. Over an eight-year period, 100 patients with IIB osteosarcoma have been managed. Eighty-one were treated with limb-salvage procedures, 78 of which involved reconstruction utilizing endoprostheses. Only 19 patients received amputation as the primary treatment for local control. Since 1984, all patients received preoperative and post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy. Those patients who received chemotherapy had a statistically significant improvement in five-year survival over those who did not (57% and 32%, respectively, p = 0.014). The functional results were good overall, with excellent results seen in distal femoral reconstruction. Twenty-eight of the 78 patients treated with endoprosthetic reconstruction experienced 30 complications (36%). Mechanical failure was the most common complication (10%) but was generally correctable. The local recurrence rate was 5% and the infection rate was 3%. Local complications were manageable. A statistical analysis revealed that the relative risk of patient death was 2.5 times higher than prosthesis failure for the 78 patients with endoprosthetic reconstruction. The intermediate-term results, with a median follow-up period of 43 months, remains encouraging. 
Quinapril: a new second-generation ACE inhibitor. Quinapril is a new non-sulfhydryl angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. The drug undergoes hepatic hydrolysis into its major active diacid metabolite, quinaprilat, and two minor inactive metabolites. On a weight basis quinaprilat is three times as potent an ACE inhibitor as quinapril. Approximately 60 percent of an oral dose of quinapril is absorbed. In contrast with captopril, the absorption of quinapril is unaffected by food. Peak serum concentrations of quinapril and quinaprilat are achieved within one and two hours, respectively. Approximately 61 percent of an orally administered dose is excreted in the urine, principally as quinaprilat. The elimination half-life of quinaprilat is three hours, but is prolonged up to 11 hours in patients with renal dysfunction. Quinapril dose reduction is recommended in patients with a creatinine clearance of 0.50 mL/sec or less. In the elderly the elimination of quinaprilat is reduced and correlates well with renal function. In patients with cirrhosis the hydrolysis of quinapril to quinaprilat is impaired resulting in lower plasma quinaprilat concentrations and up to a two-fold increase in quinapril half-life. Quinaprilat has a strong binding capacity to tissue ACE allowing for once-daily dosing. The recommended starting dose for quinapril is 20 mg/d. The nature and incidence of adverse reactions to quinapril are similar to those of enalapril and captopril. Quinapril's antihypertensive efficacy is equal to that of captopril and enalapril. A small number of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) have been treated with quinapril. Preliminary data indicate that quinapril is an equally effective therapeutic alternative to presently available ACE inhibitors in the treatment of CHF. 
Astroviruses as a cause of nosocomial outbreaks of infant diarrhea. During a 16-month study period at a children's hospital, 32 children developed nosocomial gastroenteritis caused by astroviruses. Twenty-five of these occurred during 2 epidemic outbreaks in medical and surgical infants' wards. From the community, 13 confirmed cases were admitted during the study period. Both community-acquired and nosocomial cases occurred during autumn, winter and early spring. The attack rates during outbreaks ranged between 7 and 62% and were highest among children with underlying gastrointestinal diseases. Diarrhea and vomiting were the most common clinical manifestations. The median duration of symptoms was 4 days and that of virus excretion was 5 days. Hospital infection with astroviruses is common and usually affects children less than 2 years of age. The probable mode of transmission is spread via contaminated hands. 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy may be ineffective for secondary prevention of colorectal cancer in asymptomatic, average-risk men. Asymptomatic men (N = 114) 50 years of age or older had screening for colorectal neoplasia with flexible sigmoidoscopy followed by colonoscopy regardless of the sigmoidoscopic result. Our study objective was to determine the prevalence of patients having isolated adenomatous polyps in a proximal colonic segment in the absence of a distal index neoplasm within reach of the sigmoidoscope. Through the combined use of sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy, adenomatous polyps were detected in 47 of 114 individuals (41%). A total of 88 adenomas was found. Seventeen patients had isolated neoplasms in proximal colonic segments in the absence of distal adenomas. These patients represented 15% of screened subjects (17 of 114) and 20% of individuals who lacked adenomas on sigmoidoscopy (17 of 84). The majority of proximal neoplasms were small (less than 1.0 cm), tubular adenomas. Flexible sigmoidoscopy may be ineffective for screening asymptomatic men for neoplasia. However, it remains to be determined if a 20% miss rate (for those with a normal sigmoidoscopic examination) is significant and whether small proximal adenomas are worth finding. 
Gonadal vein thrombosis in patients with acute gastrointestinal inflammation: diagnosis with CT. During a 31-month period, evidence of gonadal vein thrombosis (GVT) was demonstrated by computed tomography (CT) in seven patients who had a broad spectrum of acute gastrointestinal inflammatory lesions, including diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, appendicitis with abscess, and perforated appendix with pseudomembranous colitis. All patients had lower abdominal pain, tenderness, fever, and leukocytosis. CT demonstrated thrombus through the length of the gonadal vein in each patient; the entire lumen of the vein was filled. No symptoms relating to GVT were present. GVT may resolve with treatment of the underlying enteric disease alone, and anticoagulant therapy may not be necessary. 
Rest and exercise radionuclide angiography for diagnosis in chronic ischemic heart disease. Rest and exercise radionuclide angiography is frequently employed for the diagnosis of chest pain syndromes. Its value and limitations in this regard have been well studied, but proper utilization of the technique requires an understanding of five critical concepts: 1) Radionuclide angiography is superior to treadmill exercise testing and probably equivalent to thallium scintigraphy, although the published series did not use current methods. 2) The true specificity of radionuclide angiography is about 80%, intermediate between the early optimistic estimates and the later pessimistic ones. 3) The peak exercise ejection fraction is the preferred test parameter for diagnosis, although exercise hemodynamics, symptoms, and electrocardiographic changes should also be considered. 4) Although radionuclide angiography is clearly helpful for noninvasive diagnosis, significant numbers of patients will continue to fall in an uncertain category. 5) The proper application of the technique requires recognition of its limitations and careful attention to technical details. When properly applied, this modality can make an important contribution to clinical decision making. 
Serum bupivacaine concentrations following wound infiltration in children undergoing inguinal herniotomy. Serum bupivacaine concentrations were measured in 12 children who underwent elective herniotomy and who received analgesia in the form of wound infiltration. Mean (SD) peak concentration was 0.36 (0.14) micrograms/ml and time to peak concentration was 14.6 (7.2) minutes after infiltration of 1.25 mg/kg of bupivacaine. These concentrations are lower than those associated with other local anaesthetic blocks and well below potentially toxic levels. Wound infiltration provides a simple, effective and safe method of providing postoperative analgesia for hernia repair in children. 
Infections with Chryseomonas luteola (CDC group Ve-1) and Flavimonas oryzihabitans (CDC group Ve-2) in neurosurgical patients. During a 20-month period at Temple University Hospital, three cases of infection with bacteria of the Ve group--Chryseomonas luteola (CDC group Ve-1) and Flavimonas oryzihabitans (CDC group Ve-2)--were seen in neurosurgical patients. Two of the patients, including one with what is thought to be the first reported case of meningitis due to C. luteola, had complications caused by prosthetic material. A review of the literature revealed 14 well-described cases of infection with C. luteola or F. oryzihabitans, the majority of which were cases of bacteremia or peritonitis in patients undergoing dialysis. The presence of foreign material and the use of corticosteroids may predispose to and influence the course of disease. As prosthetic material becomes even more widely used, the incidence of infection with bacteria of the Ve group will likely increase and the manifestations of the infections will probably become more varied. 
Postirradiation sarcoma. Analysis of a nationwide cancer registry material. Thirty-three cases of postirradiation sarcoma (PIS) from the files of the Finnish Cancer Registry were analyzed. The most frequent first primary tumors were cancers of the breast (seven cases) and female reproductive organs (13 cases). Five patients had a childhood cancer. The median total radiation dose at the site of the PIS was 3600 cGy (1600 cGy to 11200 cGy). The median interval from start of radiation therapy to detection of PIS was 13.2 years (3.4 to 22.8 years). The PIS was of soft tissue origin in 25 of 33 cases. The most frequent histologic types were osteosarcoma (ten cases, including four extraskeletal tumors), malignant fibrous histiocytoma (ten cases), and fibrosarcoma (six cases). The overall crude 5-year survival rate was 29% (calculated from the start of treatment for PIS), and for patients initially treated with either radical surgery or combined marginal surgery and postoperative irradiation it was 67%. The authors conclude that there is a chance for cure for radically treated patients with postirradiation sarcoma that emphasizes the importance of regular long-term follow-up of cancer patients. 
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies in childhood. I. Biochemical and morphologic investigations. During a 4-year period (1984 to 1988), 50 children referred with manifestations of central nervous system or neuromuscular disease combined with hyperlactatemia were subjected to investigations that aimed to identify and characterize children with mitochondrial disorders. Biochemical and morphologic investigations of quadriceps muscle biopsy tissue were done, including oximetric and spectrophotometric analysis of the respiratory chain function, enzyme histochemistry, electron microscopy, and analysis of mitochondrial DNA. A diagnosis of mitochondrial disease was based on the presence of at least two of five criteria: (1) abnormal results of oximetry, (2) abnormal results of spectrophotometry, (3) enzyme histochemical evidence of cytochrome x oxidase deficiency, (4) deletions or point mutations of mitochondrial DNA, and (5) abundant ultrastructurally abnormal mitochondria. With the combined biochemical and morphologic investigation, 20 of the children were found to have mitochondrial disorders. In an additional 10 children a mitochondrial disorder was neither excluded nor verified. Mitochondrial disorders are thus an important cause of central nervous system and neuromuscular disease in children with hyperlactatemia. 
Granulomatous peritonitis and appendicitis of food starch origin. Two patients with food starch granulomatous reactions, one a necrotising granulomatous peritonitis after the perforation of a gastric ulcer and the other a non-necrotising granulomatous appendicitis, are described. The possibility of food starch induced inflammation must be considered in the differential diagnosis of granulomatous diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. 
Effect of digitalis glycosides on norepinephrine release in the heart. Dual mechanism of action. The effect of ouabain on exocytotic and nonexocytotic norepinephrine release was investigated in perfused rat and guinea pig hearts. The overflow of endogenous norepinephrine and its neuronal metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethyleneglycol (DOPEG) was determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography. DOPEG served as the indicator of free axoplasmic norepinephrine concentrations. The overflow of the norepinephrine cotransmitter neuropeptide Y (NPY) was determined by radioimmunoassay and NPY was used as marker for exocytotic release. Electrical stimulation of the left stellate ganglion resulted in exocytotic norepinephrine release in rat and guinea pig hearts. Ouabain caused an increase in stimulation-induced norepinephrine overflow from rat and guinea pig hearts by 40%. However, overflow of NPY was decreased by 40%, indicating a reduced exocytosis rate. Ouabain increased both norepinephrine and NPY overflow, suggesting enhancement of exocytosis, when neuronal catecholamine uptake (uptake1) was blocked by desipramine or when presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors were inhibited by yohimbine. The results demonstrate an interaction of ouabain with both calcium-dependent exocytosis and uptake1 of norepinephrine. Under calcium-free conditions, ouabain or potassium-free perfusate resulted in norepinephrine release from hearts when the axoplasmic norepinephrine concentration was elevated by the reserpinelike agent Ro 4-1284. This release was independent from neural activity, not accompanied by NPY overflow, and suppressed by the uptake1 blocker desipramine. These findings are in keeping with carrier-mediated nonexocytotic norepinephrine release that is caused by reversal of the transport direction of the uptake1 carrier. During myocardial ischemia nonexocytotic norepinephrine release was accelerated and enhanced by inhibition of Na+,K(+)-ATPase before ischemia. This study demonstrates the potential of digitalis glycosides to interact both with transmitter exocytosis and with the neuronal catecholamine transport system by Na+,K(+)-ATPase inhibition. Interaction with the catecholamine transport system involves both inhibition of norepinephrine inward transport and induction of norepinephrine outward transport, resulting in nonexocytotic norepinephrine release. 
Effects of dynamic cardiomyoplasty on left ventricular performance and myocardial mechanics in dilated cardiomyopathy. We tested the hypothesis that dynamic cardiomyoplasty produces beneficial changes in the functional mechanics of the dilated, failing left ventricle. Chronic dilated cardiomyopathy was induced in seven mongrel dogs by rapid ventricular pacing (260 beats/min) for 3 to 4 weeks. After completion of the induction period, dynamic cardiomyoplasty was performed with the left latissimus dorsi muscle, paced synchronously with the R waves of the electrocardiogram (Medtronic SP1005). Instruments included an aortic flow probe, a left ventricular Millar pressure catheter, and piezoelectric sonomicrometric crystals on the left ventricle for measurements of wall thickness and minor and major axis dimensions. Data were obtained with the stimulator off and on. Statistical comparisons were made with Student's t test for paired data. Dynamic cardiomyoplasty increased the cardiac output of the failing heart (966 +/- 124 versus 1166 +/- 112 ml/min; p less than 0.01). Systolic shortening of both minor and major axis dimensions increased (3.1 +/- 0.3 versus 4.7 +/- 0.3 mm, p less than 0.01, and 4.6 +/- 0.3 versus 7.3 +/- 0.9 mm, p less than 0.05, respectively). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased by 16% (18 +/- 1 versus 15 +/- 1 mm Hg, p less than 0.01). Although skeletal muscle contraction increased the pressure development in the left ventricular chamber, mean systolic wall stress was diminished by concomitant changes in left ventricular dimensions (116,144 +/- 11,530 versus 101,268 +/- 7464 dynes/cm2, p less than 0.05). At end-systole, wall thickness increased (11.8 +/- 1.1 versus 12.7 +/- 1.1 mm, p less than 0.01), minor axis dimension decreased (51.3 +/- 1.4 versus 49.2 +/- 1.8 mm, p less than 0.01), and major axis dimension also decreased (85.6 +/- 3.3 versus 79.0 +/- 2.3 mm, p less than 0.05). Our detailed evaluation of left ventricular chamber mechanics suggests that dynamic cardiomyoplasty may have a role in ameliorating the functional and mechanical derangements associated with progression of dilated cardiomyopathy both by augmenting cardiac performance and by diminishing determinants of myocardial oxygen consumption. (All values are expressed as mean +/- standard error of the mean.). 
Transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract: evaluation of prognostic factors by histopathology and flow cytometric analysis. Prognostic factors in transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract were assessed with histopathological examination and flow cytometric analysis in a series of 127 patients operated upon between 1976 and 1988. In particular, we evaluated the usefulness of flow cytometry to identify patients who require adjuvant treatment among those with low grade and low stage disease (51% in this series). A multivariate analysis was done on 92 cases, considering patient age and sex, stage, grade and number of lesions (unifocal versus multifocal), site (renal pelvis versus ureter), presence of vesical tumors, recurrences along the urinary tract or in the bladder, type of operation and nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) ploidy (diploid versus tetraploid/aneuploid tumors). Only the stage (p = 0.001), grade (p = 0.001) and, to a lesser extent, the DNA pattern (p = 0.031), as well as the number of lesions (p = 0.061) were determinant for prognosis. In regard to the subgroup of 41 patients with grade 2 or less, stage P1 or less tumors, no significant difference in survival was demonstrated between diploid and nondiploid tumor patients. However, 7 of 10 patients from the latter group are still under observation. Therefore, our conclusions may have to be modified in the future. 
Comparison of 40 milliliters of 0.25% intrapleural bupivacaine with epinephrine with 20 milliliters of 0.5% intrapleural bupivacaine with epinephrine after cholecystectomy. To determine the influence of the volume of local anesthetic injected for intrapleural analgesia, 40 patients undergoing cholecystectomy were randomly allocated to two groups of 20 patients each. One group received 40 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine injected intrapleurally postoperatively. The other group received 20 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine. The onset time of analgesia was nearly the same in both groups and within 25 min all patients were nearly pain free. Our data demonstrate that 100 mg of bupivacaine with epinephrine elicits effective analgesia after cholecystectomy. There are only minor differences between 20 and 40 mL with regard to pain relief. The authors conclude that the volume of local anesthetic within the range of 20-40 mL in an adult has little influence on the extent or duration of intrapleural analgesia. 
Acute catastrophic complications of balloon aortic valvuloplasty. The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry Investigators. Among the initial 492 patients who underwent balloon aortic valvuloplasty as part of the Mansfield Investigational Device Exemption Protocol, 31 (6.3%) had acute catastrophic complications. These included ventricular perforation in nine (1.8%), seven women and two men; six cases (67%) involved serial balloon inflations and seven (78%) also involved dual balloon inflations. In six (67%) of the nine patients perforation was fatal. In four patients studied at necropsy, the perforation involved the base of the lateral left ventricular free wall. Pericardiocentesis was performed in five patients, three of whom survived with (one patient) or without (two patients) operative repair. Acute, severe aortic regurgitation developed in four patients (0.8%), all women. None had significant regurgitation before valvuloplasty; dual balloons were used in two of the four. All three patients who underwent emergency valve replacement survived. A fourth patient died 2 days after valvuloplasty without operative intervention. Fatal cardiac arrest complicated balloon aortic valvuloplasty in 13 patients (2.6%), including 7 with cardiogenic shock and 4 with refractory ventricular arrhythmias. Of the seven with shock, four had been treated with serial balloon inflations; dual balloons were used in three. In two of three patients studied at necropsy, the aortic valve was observed to be congenitally bicuspid. A fatal cerebrovascular accident occurred in two patients (0.4%); it was hemorrhagic in one, embolic in another. Both patients were treated with serial (including one dual) balloon inflations. Limb amputation was required in three patients (0.6%), two women and one man; in two patients amputation was above the knee, in the third patient it was limited to two toes. 
Early heparin therapy in patients with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage. In 68 patients with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage the effect of heparin treatment beginning on the second, fourth or tenth day was investigated. Early (day 2) low-dose heparin medication significantly lowered the incidence of pulmonary embolism. An increase in the number of patients with rebleeding was not observed. The results indicate that the early use of heparin in these patients is safe and can be recommended for the prevention of thromboembolic complications. 
Maple syrup urine disease. Complete defect of the E1 beta subunit of the branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex due to a deletion of an 11-bp repeat sequence which encodes a mitochondrial targeting leader peptide in a family with the disease. Branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) deficiency results in maple syrup urine disease (MSUD). We examined the molecular basis of familial cases of MSUD by analyzing the activity, subunit structure, mRNA sequence, and genome structure of the affected enzyme. The BCKDH activity in the proband with MSUD was approximately 6% of the normal control level. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the E1 beta subunit of BCKDH was absent and that the E1 alpha subunit of BCKDH was markedly reduced. We amplified the cDNAs of the E1 alpha subunit and the E1 beta subunit of the BCKDH complex obtained from cells of the patient, using the polymerase chain reaction method, then sequenced the amplified cDNAs. The deduced amino acid sequence for the E1 alpha subunit of the patient's cell was normal. An 11-bp deletion was identified in the region that encoded the mitochondrial targeting leader peptide in the E1 beta cDNA. This 11-bp sequence is found in the first exon of the BCKDH-E1 beta gene, as a direct tandem repeat. Amplification of genomic DNA revealed that the consanguineous parents were heterozygous for this mutant allele, and sister and brother of the patient with the disease were homozygous for this mutant allele. This 11-bp deletion mutation caused a change in the reading frame and the mature E1 beta protein was defective. These observations show the biological importance of the E1 beta subunit of BCKDH to maintain normal function of the enzyme activity. The absence of the E1 beta subunit results in instability of the E1 alpha subunit. 
Injury of the Achilles tendon: diagnosis with sonography. We determined the diagnostic accuracy of sonography for the assessment of injury to the Achilles tendon. After anatomic investigations in three human cadavers, we performed a clinical study in 24 healthy volunteers and 73 symptomatic patients referred for achillodynia or signs of heel thickening or both in whom a clinical diagnosis of acute total rupture was excluded. High-resolution real-time sonography was performed and the results were compared with final clinical diagnoses (55 patients) and surgical findings (18 patients). Fifty-two of the patients had been involved in various sporting activities (long-distance runners, jumpers, and basketball players), three patients had familial hypercholesterolemia, five patients had systemic inflammatory disease, and 13 patients had no known underlying cause. Anatomic investigation demonstrated accurate assessment of tendon structure and thickness. Sonograms were abnormal in 53 patients (sensitivity, 0.72; specificity, 0.83), and the extent of structural disorders of the tendon could be assessed properly. Abnormalities occurred in the form of tendon swelling (45%), abnormal tendon structure (42%), rupture (15%), and peritendinous lesions (47%). No changes were detected in low-grade disease of short duration, which suggests symptoms caused by functional disorders. Sonography is valuable in the diagnosis of various lesions of the Achilles tendon and its surrounding tissue. Furthermore, it can be used to estimate the degree of tendon abnormality and to differentiate between functional and morphologic conditions. 
Quantitative thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography during maximal pharmacologic coronary vasodilation with adenosine for assessing coronary artery disease. The diagnostic value of maximal pharmacologic coronary vasodilation with intravenously administered adenosine in conjunction with thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for detection of coronary artery disease was investigated in 101 consecutive patients who had concomitant coronary arteriography. Tomographic images were assessed visually and from computer-quantified polar maps of the thallium-201 distribution. Significant coronary artery disease, defined as greater than 50% luminal diameter stenosis, was present in 70 patients. The sensitivity for detecting patients with coronary artery disease using quantitative analysis was 87% in the total group, 82% in patients without myocardial infarction and 96% in those with prior myocardial infarction; the specificity was 90%. The sensitivity for diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients without infarction with single-, double-and triple-vessel disease was 76%, 86% and 90%, respectively. All individual stenoses were identified in 68% of patients with double-vessel disease and in 65% of those with triple-vessel disease. The extent of the perfusion defects, as quantified by polar maps, was directly related to the extent of coronary artery disease. In conclusion, quantitative thallium-201 SPECT during adenosine infusion has high sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing the presence of coronary artery disease, localizing the anatomic site of coronary stenosis and identifying the majority of affected vascular regions in patients with multivessel involvement. 
Nursing and public policy. What is the high ground? To be effective in public policy formation, nurses must establish standards of care and advocate changes in financing and healthcare organization for persons who are not well served. The author delineates four areas (out-of-hospital prenatal and postnatal care; care of chronically mentally ill adults and severely emotionally disturbed youths; care for the elderly, especially in nursing homes; and care of the disabled and the chronically and terminally ill) where nurses should be the authority for much of the care provided. The author concludes that evolving dissatisfaction with the healthcare system means that nurses have the opportunity to make major contributions to the organization of all parts of the system, as it is ultimately put together, if they do the research and advocacy that is needed. 
Selection criteria for successful immediate breast reconstruction. To evaluate the factors leading to success in immediate breast reconstruction after mastectomy, 176 consecutive immediate reconstructions done with implants or expanders over a 5-year period were analyzed. None of these 176 had "complete muscle coverage." There were only five failures: four with implant loss (one involving radiation) and one removed electively. The failures were 1 in 40 regular implants, 4 in 77 temporary expanders, and 0 in 59 long-term expanders. There is no other report in the literature comparing these different types of implants. Various hypotheses for failure are reviewed. It is concluded that failure in immediate reconstruction is not related to use of drains, bilaterality, or lack of "complete muscle coverage." It is concluded that failure is related to implant type, prior radiation, and most of all to suboptimal patient selection. Specific selection criteria and operative techniques are discussed. 
Role of anteroventral third ventricle and vasopressin in renal response to stress in borderline hypertensive rats. The borderline hypertensive rat is the first filial offspring of the spontaneously hypertensive rat and the Wistar-Kyoto rat. In response to acute environmental stress (air jet), the borderline hypertensive rat exhibits a diuretic response, whereas the parental strains exhibit an antidiuretic response (spontaneously hypertensive rat) or no change in urine flow rate (Wistar-Kyoto rat). This study sought to investigate the role of the periventricular tissue surrounding the anteroventral third ventricle and vasopressin release in the diuretic response of the borderline hypertensive rat to acute environmental stress. Sixteen-week-old borderline hypertensive rats who had consumed a 1% NaCl diet for 10-12 weeks were given either electrolytic lesions of the anteroventral portion of the third ventricle or sham lesions. When exposed to acute environmental stress 4 weeks later, the increase in volume of dilute urine seen in the sham-lesion rats was not observed in the lesion rats. Plasma vasopressin concentration was decreased by acute environmental stress in the sham-lesion rats (15.2 +/- 4.0 to 10.9 +/- 1.7 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) but was unchanged in the lesion rats (12.3 +/- 2.0 to 13.4 +/- 4.0 pg/ml). In a separate group of intact borderline hypertensive rats, a constant intravenous infusion of vasopressin prevented the diuretic response to acute environmental stress. The results suggest that acute environmental stress produces a diuresis in the borderline hypertensive rats via a decrease in plasma vasopressin concentration that is dependent on the integrity of the periventricular tissue of the anteroventral portion of the third ventricle. 
Endocardial fibroelastosis in infants with hydrops fetalis. Endocardial fibroelastosis, defined as an endocardium in excess of 30 microns thick, was found in 10 out of 34 cases of hydrops fetalis in a review of 1589 perinatal necropsies carried out between 1976 and 1989. The infants comprised 16 cases of rhesus haemolytic disease, of whom three had endocardial fibroelastosis, and 18 cases of non-rhesus hydrops, of whom seven had endocardial fibroelastosis. Intrauterine congestive heart failure was thought to have been the probable cause of hydrops in eight of the 10 infants with endocardial fibroelastosis. None of an age matched control group without endocardial fibroelastosis had evidence of congestive cardiac failure. These observations support the hypothesis that endocardial fibroelastosis is an endocardial response to chronic prenatal myocardial stress. 
Inspiratory muscle dysfunction and chronic hypercapnia in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease A prospective evaluation of the prevalence of CO2 retention and its relationship to lung mechanics and inspiratory muscle strength was carried out in 311 clinically stable patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Of these patients 32.8% had hypercapnia (PaCO2 greater than or equal to 43 mm Hg). PaCO2 was directly related to lung resistance (RL; r = 0.53) and inversely related to FEV1 (r = 0.53) and to an expression of the dead space/tidal volume ratio (1 - VD/VT) (r = 0.48). RL was found to be a major determinant of the mean intrathoracic pressure swing developed during inspiration (PI) at rest (r = 0.85). Maximal inspiratory pressure (PImax) was found to improve the predictive value for PaCO2 of several mechanical loads, with RL/PImax the best predictor (r = 0.57). The prevalence of hypercapnia increased from virtually 0 to 100% with increases in the RL/PImax value and was higher in the obese subjects at intermediate RL/PImax values, probably because of the burden placed on the respiratory muscles by chest wall mass loading. Our results show that chronic alveolar hypoventilation is likely to develop in COPD patients who have a combination of high inspiratory loads and inspiratory muscle weakness. hypercapnia may be one strategy available to avoid overloading of the inspiratory muscles leading to fatigue and possible irreversible failure. 
Evaluation of light microscopy to localise the site of haematuria. Red cell morphology was examined by light microscopy in 122 urine specimens from 99 patients with haematuria in an attempt to define the site of origin. Altogether 84% of glomerular bleeding and 91% of non-glomerular bleeding was correctly assigned according to diagnoses determined by renal biopsy in 51 patients and clinically in 48. The test should be interpreted with caution as both false positive and false negative results were observed, some in the same individual with unchanged pathology at different times. No advantage of phase contrast over bright field microscopy was apparent even when examining uncentrifuged urines. 
Relative predispositional effects (RPEs) of marker alleles with disease: HLA-DR alleles and Graves disease. A method is described to reveal the relative predispositional effects (RPEs) (predisposing, protective, or neutral) of the HLA alleles or of any other marker system that is associated with a disease. When the disease is associated with two or more alleles of a locus, the RPE method identifies the associations sequentially according to their strength; thus the problem that a strong association with one allele can create misleading deviations in the frequencies of other alleles is alleviated. Using this method, we have examined the relative effects of HLA-DR alleles in susceptibility to Graves disease in the Caucasian population. The well-established positive association with DR3 was confirmed as the strongest effect. In addition, a negative association was found between DR5 and Graves disease. The reduced frequency of DR5 among patients is statistically significant and is not a result of the increase in DR3. Finally, when patients were divided according to the presence or absence of eye disease, the latter showed a significant increase in the frequency of DR4. With family data, linkage to HLA of Graves disease was established in both Caucasian and Chinese families by the sib-pair method. 
Helicobacter pylori infection and gastric carcinoma among Japanese Americans in Hawaii BACKGROUND. Helicobacter pylori are gram-negative spiral bacteria that are associated with chronic gastritis, a known precursor of gastric carcinoma. Persons at high risk for gastric carcinoma have been shown to have a high prevalence of H. pylori infection. METHODS. We studied the relation of H. pylori infection and gastric carcinoma in a cohort of Japanese American men living in Hawaii. The 5908 men were enrolled and examined from 1967 to 1970. By 1989, 109 cases of pathologically confirmed gastric carcinoma had been identified. The store serum of each patient with gastric carcinoma and of each matched control subject were tested for the presence of serum IgG antibody to H. pylori. RESULTS. Ninety-four percent of the men with gastric carcinoma and 76 percent of the matched control subjects had a positive test for H. pylori antibodies, for an odds ratio of 6.0 (95 percent confidence interval, 2.1 to 17.3). As the level of antibody to H. pylori increased, there was a progressive increase in the risk of gastric carcinoma (P for trend = 0.0009). The association was strong even for men in whom the diagnosis was made 10 or more years after the serum sample was obtained (odds ratio, 10.5; 95 percent confidence interval, 2.5 to 44.8). CONCLUSIONS. Infection with H. pylori is strongly associated with an increased risk of gastric carcinoma. However, most persons infected with H. pylori will never have gastric carcinoma. Therefore, other factors that increase the risk of gastric carcinoma among persons infected with H. pylori need to be identified. 
Intracranial vascular abnormalities: value of MR phase imaging to distinguish thrombus from flowing blood. The interpretation of conventional spin-echo and gradient-echo MR images of intracranial vascular lesions can be complex and ambiguous owing to variable effects on image intensity caused by flowing blood or thrombus. MR phase images, obtained simultaneously with conventional-magnitude images, are useful for evaluating proton motion (i.e., blood flow), and therefore can simplify the diagnosis of the presence or absence of thrombosis within a vascular structure or lesion. Fourteen patients with a variety of intracranial vascular abnormalities (aneurysms, superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, neoplasms adjacent to venous sinuses, and vascular malformations) were evaluated with conventional MR and phase imaging for the presence of blood flow. The phase images correlated with angiography in all cases. Phase imaging was not necessarily better than conventional spin-echo imaging in all cases, but it simplified the evaluation of thrombus vs blood flow in many. In three of five aneurysms, the phase images were diagnostic for evaluating lumen patency whereas the conventional images were ambiguous. Phase imaging was advantageous for detecting tumor invasion of the venous sinus when venous blood was enhanced by gadopentetate dimeglumine. A laminar flow phantom experiment determined the lower limits of sensitivity of phase imaging to be 0.5 cm/sec in the slice-select and 2.5 cm/sec in the read gradient directions. Phase imaging is a simple, reliable technique that can distinguish thrombosis from flowing blood within intracranial lesions. It is easily performed and adds no additional time to the MR examination. 
A behavioral taxonomy of obese female participants in a weight-loss program. To create a behavioral classification of obesity, 2-wk baseline food diaries were obtained from 236 obese women entering weight-loss programs. Subjects monitored food intake along with the social, environmental, and emotional context in which each meal occurred. Variables representing situation-specific eating behaviors were statistically extracted from greater than 11,000 eating episodes. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified five distinct groups of subjects on the basis of similarity of eating patterns. The five groups were (1) moderately healthy eating habits, (2) chronic food restrictors, (3) alternating diet-binge eaters, (4) emotional overeaters, (5) unrestricted meal overeaters. The five groups differed on questionnaire measures of emotional adjustment and eating behavior but did not differ on dropout rates, amount of weight lost, or exercise compliance. The chronic food restrictors had significantly less lean body mass, lower resting metabolic rates, and higher waist-to-hip ratios than did the unrestricted meal overeaters. 
Economic impact of diagnosis-related groups and severity of illness on reimbursement for central nervous system infections. Because the federal government's diagnosis-related group (DRG) classification system for prospective payment has not been widely applied to hospitalized pediatric patients, we analyzed the effectiveness of one DRG category (central nervous system infections) for a single year at a medium-sized children's hospital to control for patients' severity of illness and for hospital reimbursement. Several independent measures of severity of illness (length of stay, duration of fever, Physiologic Severity Index) showed that patients with bacterial meningitis and those with encephalitis (DRG 20) were more ill than those with aseptic meningitis (DRG 21) (p less than 0.001 for each measure). Cost analysis revealed that the hospital was only partially reimbursed for its charges (shortfall of $95,547) and that patients with Medicaid or no insurance accounted for 22% of discharges but 88% of losses. Reimbursement by DRG would have increased payment for DRG 21 but decreased that for DRG 20. If DRGs were applied to pediatric central nervous system infections and used in a prospective payment system, they would accurately predict disease severity between but not within groups, and significant financial losses for children's hospitals would still occur. 
Acute thrombosis of the renal transplant artery: a case report and review of the literature. Acute thrombosis of the renal transplant artery is a known but unusual complication of renal transplantation usually occurring in the first month. Reported here is a case of acute renal artery thrombosis in a well functioning long-term renal allograft in which there was clear angiographic evidence of a normal renal artery two years earlier. 
Lateral rhachotomy for thoracic spinal lesions. Capener's "Lateral Rhachotomy" was modified by additional excision of the pedicle, articular facets, part of the lamina, and a posterior half of the vertebral bodies on one side through a transpleural approach to the thoracic spine, and a retroperitoneal approach to the lumbar spine. The aim was to excise a space-occupying lesion, which exists in front of the thoracic or lumbar spinal cord, safely. This modification enable the authors to expose more than 50% of the spinal canal, and decompress it from its anterior, lateral, and posterior compressing mass. The utmost important point of this procedure is the excision of the lesion under the direct visualization of the dura. In ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL), the dura is usually indented by the thick bony mass, and the lesion extends over a few segment with adhesion. Using "Modified Lateral Rhachotomy," it was possible to explore three or four vertebral levels in continuity through the same skin incision. In the present report, the authors described their "Modified Lateral Rhachotomy" procedure, and reviewed the case material. 
Peripheral mucoepidermoid tumour of the lung. Mucoepidermoid tumours of the bronchial tree are uncommon neoplasms, which are believed to arise from terminal ducts of the proximal tracheobronchial tree. The first case of a peripheral mucoepidermoid tumour of the lung is reported. 
Mitral valve repair in the extensively calcified mitral valve annulus. Mitral valve replacement in patients with an extensively calcified mitral annulus is associated with an increased risk of ventricular rupture. Until now techniques of mitral valve repair have not been applied to patients with a heavily calcified mitral valve annulus. We present 12 patients who underwent extensive decalcification of the annulus with subsequent mitral valve repair between 1987 and 1990. Ages ranged from 11 to 78 years; 6 patients were in New York Heart Association functional class II, 4 were in class III, and 2 were in class IV. All patients had varying degrees of mitral insufficiency. There were no deaths, reoperations, or thromboembolic events. Postoperative echocardiography revealed minimal residual mitral insufficiency in only 2 of 12 patients. All patients are currently in New York Heart Association class I or II. We believe mitral valve repair can be done safely on patients with an extensively calcified mitral annulus, thus avoiding the risks of left ventricular rupture, thromboembolic events, and hemorrhagic complications associated with mitral valve replacement. 
Efficacy of danazol in the control of hormonal migraine. Of 131 women with hormonally related migraines unresponsive to standard medication, 67 (51.1%) noted profound relief after a 12-month, phased study using danazol for migraine prevention. The first three phases consisted of two-month cycles: dietary control and acetazolamide, the addition of danazol and danazol discontinuation. Eighty-three women (63.36%) reported control of their hormonal migraines while using danazol. In phase IV, 81 women whose headaches were controlled by danazol restarted danazol for an additional six months. Sixty-seven (82.7%) reported continued success with this medication. Danazol proved highly successful in the control of women's cyclic migraine. Its effectiveness remained consistent throughout the treatment course. In the prophylactic treatment of women's hormonal migraine, 400 mg of danazol administered daily for 25 days each month can prove effective when standard medical therapy fails. Furthermore, the response to danazol supported the concept that hormonal migraine should be treated as a distinct clinical entity. 
Orientation and moment arms of some trunk muscles. The orientations and moment arms of nine trunk muscles: latissimus dorsi, iliocostalis, longissimus dorsi, obliquii, rectus and transversalis abdominis, quadratus lumborum, and iliopsoas were obtained on embalmed specimens. Each muscle was considered as one or several, linear or curvilinear, lines of action. Origins, insertions, and points along the length of main bundles were digitized for each muscle using a three-dimensional digitizer. The results obtained from seven male specimens are presented and will permit more refined biomechanical models. 
Prophylaxis of nasolacrimal duct obstruction after major sinus surgery using a silicone stent. Damage to the nasolacrimal duct during major sinus procedures results in troublesome symptoms of epiphora and acute infection. Prophylactic stenting of the lacrimal apparatus using a silicone stent is described as a means of preventing such complications. 
Renal disease, epidermal necrosis, and epithelial cell antibodies. OBJECTIVE--To describe the association between epithelial cell IgM, which has previously been associated with an increased incidence of loss of renal graft in children, with a novel cutaneous eruption and unexplained native renal disease. DESIGN--Observational study on children with epithelial cell antibody presenting with unexplained renal or skin disease. SETTING--General paediatric department and regional paediatric nephrology unit. PATIENTS--Six children (five girls, one boy), who presented to the unit in 1989-90. RESULTS--Three children, two of whom had a history of a hyperpigmented rash, presented with hypertension, proteinuria, and impaired renal function. Renal biopsy specimens from two of these children showed severe arteriolar endothelial cell swelling with arteriolar occlusion. These children fully recovered after treatment with antihypertensive drugs. The third child developed end stage renal failure and required dialysis. Three other children presented with an unusual cutaneous eruption but no evidence of renal disease. Histology of the skin lesions showed acute epidermal necrosis and features consistent with a viral infection. CONCLUSIONS--The aetiology and pathogenesis of the epithelial cell antibody are unknown. These cases indicate that it may have a role in native kidney disease and focal epidermal necrosis. Clinical and histological features suggest that the antibody may be associated with a viral infection. 
Placement of an ileal loop urinary diversion back in continuity with the intestinal tract. The use of ileum from a previously constructed urinary conduit for lengthening the small bowel has not been previously reported. We describe a patient with the short-bowel syndrome from previous small-bowel resections, radiation enteritis, and an ileal urinary diversion. The ileal conduit was revised because of recurrent hyperammonemic encephalopathy and apparent stricture of the ureteroenteric anastomosis. In an attempt to increase intestinal length, the ileal conduit was replaced by a colon conduit and the ileum was placed back in continuity with the intestinal tract. The patient had an uneventful recovery, and her chronic diarrhea, nutritional deficiencies, and metabolic derangements resolved. The ileal loop segment regained a normal intestinal appearance on radiographic studies. We suggest that when revision of an ileal urinary diversion is required restoration of the ileum into the intestinal tract may be of particular benefit to patients with the short-bowel syndrome. 
Screening for unruptured asymptomatic intracranial aneurysms in patients undergoing coronary angiography. In screening for unruptured asymptomatic intracranial aneurysms, an intracranial intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (IA-DSA), posteroanterior view, was obtained in 72 consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography for workup of angina pectoris. In cases where an aneurysm was suspected from IA-DSA, conventional intracranial angiography was obtained. Five asymptomatic unruptured aneurysms were detected in four of these cases. The aneurysms ranged from 4 to 16 mm in diameter. There were no complications associated with the coronary angiography nor with the additional intracranial IA-DSA, which required less than 5 minutes to perform in all cases. The value of performing intracranial IA-DSA in patients undergoing coronary angiography to screen for unruptured asymptomatic aneurysm is discussed, as is the possible racial differences in the frequency of aneurysms. 
Effect of omeprazole on duodenal ulcer-associated antral gastritis and Helicobacter pylori. This study set out to investigate the effects of omeprazole or ranitidine on the progression of antral gastritis and Helicobacter pylori in patients with active duodenal ulcer. A double-blind, double-dummy trial was performed in 270 patients, 241 of whom were studied histologically for the presence of H. pylori. Patients were randomized to receive omeprazole, 10 mg every morning, omeprazole, 20 mg every morning, or ranitidine, 150 mg twice a day, for four weeks. Endoscopy was performed on entry and at weekly intervals during the study; at least two antral biopsies were taken on each occasion to assess the activity and degree of chronic inflammation, as reflected by the degree of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration and mononuclear cell infiltration, respectively. Biopsy specimens also were assessed histologically for H. pylori. The sex, age and maximal acid output were comparable in the three treatment groups. The percentages of patients showing an improvement in the activity of gastritis in the four consecutive weeks of treatment were 9%, 40%, 51%, and 53% for omeprazole, 10 mg (N = 78); 14%, 42%, 49%, and 53% for omeprazole, 20 mg (N = 81); and 2%, 23%, 30%, and 33% for ranitidine, 150 mg twice a day (N = 82) (life table analysis gave P less than 0.01 for both omeprazole regimens compared with ranitidine). The degree of chronic inflammation showed similar changes. The density of H. pylori decreased significantly after treatment with omeprazole, 10 mg or 20 mg, (both, P less than 0.00001) but not with ranitidine. 
Amplified expression of three jun family members inhibits erythroleukemia differentiation. Several different proto-oncogenes have been shown to influence cellular differentiation. One of the most widely studied model systems has been the Friend murine erythroleukemia cell (F-MELC) line, which can be induced to undergo erythroid differentiation by a variety of chemical agents. Constitutive overexpression of either the c-myc or c-myb proto-oncogenes has been previously shown to inhibit F-MELC differentiation, whereas c-myc antisense sequences accelerate the process. To investigate the potential involvement of other proto-oncogenes and immediate early response genes in F-MELC differentiation, we studied the expression of the three known members of the jun family as well as another gene, egr-1, which, like the jun family members, is expressed as an immediate early response gene in growth factor-stimulated quiescent cells. All four genes were expressed in F-MELC, although the levels of expression and modes of regulation differed. Transfection with amplifiable c-jun, junB, or junD expression plasmids inhibited differentiation, whereas transfection with an egr-1 expression plasmid was without effect. These results indicate that jun family members play a role in mediating F-MELC differentiation. The known inhibitory effect of phorbol ester tumor promoters on F-MELC differentiation may be the result of their known stimulation of jun expression. 
Histological study of white blood cells and their association with lipodermatosclerosis and venous ulceration. The number of white blood cells per mm2 has been determined in serial histological slides taken from punch biopsies of skin from the goiter region in patients with varicose veins. In eight patients the varicose veins were complicated by lipodermatosclerosis of the skin, and in a further six there was a history of ulceration. In uncomplicated varicose veins there was a median of 6 white blood cells per mm2, in patients with lipodermatosclerosis there were 45 white blood cells per mm2, and where there was a history of ulceration, 217 white blood cells per mm2. No change in white blood cell content was observed after the venous pressure was raised for 30 min by sitting the patient with the lower limb dependent. White blood cell infiltration of the skin is associated with lipodermatosclerotic changes caused by venous insufficiency. 
Fatal varicella in an adult: case report and review of the gastrointestinal complications of chickenpox. An unusual and fatal case of primary varicella in an adult is presented. Involvement of the small intestine first manifested as abdominal pain and later progressed to gastrointestinal bleeding with subsequent dissemination of the infection. Although it has previously been speculated that gastrointestinal bleeding can result from infection with the varicella-zoster virus, the data from this case include histologic and cultural evidence that supports the clinical observations. The literature has been reviewed, and the management of this patient has been critically evaluated. 
Neurocutaneous melanosis: definition and review of the literature. Neurocutaneous melanosis is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of large or multiple congenital melanocytic nevi and benign or malignant pigment cell tumors of the leptomeninges. The syndrome is thought to represent an error in the morphogenesis of the embryonal neuroectoderm. We review 39 reported cases of neurocutaneous melanosis and propose revised criteria for diagnosis. Most patients with neurocutaneous melanosis presented in the first 2 years of life with neurologic manifestations of increased intracranial pressure, mass lesions, or spinal cord compression. Leptomeningeal melanoma was present in 62% of the cases, but even in the absence of melanoma, symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis had an extremely poor prognosis. Useful diagnostic procedures include cerebrospinal fluid cytology and magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium contrast. Patients may be aided by palliative measures such as shunt placement to reduce intracranial pressure. Dermatologists in their follow-up of patients with large or multiple congenital melanocytic nevi should be aware of this condition, to aid in prompt diagnosis and because the treatment of cutaneous lesions may be altered in the presence of symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis. 
Detection of human T-cell leukemia virus type I proviral sequences from fixed tissues of seropositive patients. Fixed lymphoma tissues from 11 patients seropositive for human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) antibodies were analyzed for proviral sequences by the polymerase chain reaction. Typical adult T-cell leukemia/lymphomas (ATLLs) from nine patients were positive for HTLV-I sequences. In contrast, one of two lymphomas with immunophenotypes atypical for ATLL was negative for HTLV-I. This HTLV-I DNA-negative lymphoma, although present in an HTLV-I-seropositive patient, was therefore reclassified. The HTLV-I tax gene was always detected in the ATLL tissues, whereas segments of the pol gene were not detected in half the cases. These studies demonstrate that fixed non-ATLL specimens can be distinguished from ATLL specimens. 
"Ex vivo" release of eicosanoid from human brain tissue: its relevance in the development of brain edema. The specific mechanism underlying the genesis of vasogenic brain edema is still debated: the role of arachidonic acid is considered extremely important, as it is a possible activator of self-maintaining reactions enhancing the release of vasoactive and cytotoxic compounds. The relationship between arachidonic acid metabolism and brain edema has been studied primarily in brain tissue samples or in the extracellular fluid, whereas the residual capacity of perilesional tissue to synthesize and release eicosanoids has not been investigated. In the present study, perilesional samples of brain tissue were available from 4 patients operated on for brain metastasis, from 8 patients who had malignant neuroepithelial tumors, from 4 with meningiomas, and from 5 with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A brain edema index was calculated from the preoperative computed tomographic scan. The "ex vivo" method allowed determination of the residual capacity of endogenous arachidonic acid metabolism. The edema index is significantly higher in patients with brain metastasis (6.5 +/- 0.8) and neuroepithelial tumors (3.6 +/- 0.2) than in those with meningiomas (1.5 +/- 0.06), subarachnoid hemorrhage (1.7 +/- 0.18), and in controls. In patients with metastatic and neuroepithelial tumors there is a significant correlation between peritumoral brain edema and the capacity to synthesize leukotriene C4 (P less than 0.05); the capacity to synthesize leukotriene C4 is also significantly elevated after subarachnoid hemorrhage (13.91 +/- 2.6 ng/ml of incubation medium) when compared with control cases (5.56 +/- 0.91). The capacity to synthesize prostacyclin is significantly higher in patients with brain metastasis than in those with neuroepithelial tumors and meningiomas (P less than 0.05). 
Bacterial invasion of the biliary system by way of the portal-venous system. It has been suggested that bacteria in the intestine gain access into the biliary tract by entering the portal-venous blood. We have tested the hypothesis of hematogenous infection of the biliary system in cats. The animals were treated in three different groups: group A (no biliary obstruction), group B (acute biliary obstruction) and group C (chronic biliary obstruction). A mutant strain of Escherichia coli was infused into the splenic vein of cats at three different dosages (10(7), 10(5) and 10(3) with sham controls. In the unobstructed biliary system, the mutant E. coli was isolated from the bile 30 min and 90 min after the infusion of 10(7) and 10(5) E. coli, respectively. No bacteria were found in the bile with the infusion of 10(3) E. coli and in the control animals. Bile flow was significantly reduced with the infusion of bacteria. The biliary excretion of E. coli in group B was similar to that in group A. In group C, the bile output in the first hour was very high but declined rapidly. E. coli was excreted into the bile at all three dosages of infusion after 30 min. Histological sections of the liver showed that the infused bacteria entered the sinusoidal blood and that some were phagocytosed by Kupffer cells. The portal-venous blood was considered an important route of bacterial invasion into the biliary system, and the penetration of bacteria was facilitated in biliary obstruction. 
Pediatric musculoskeletal MR imaging. In a review of the indications and uses for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the pediatric musculoskeletal system, MR evaluation of conditions unique to the pediatric musculoskeletal system were emphasized. Indications for MR imaging of the pediatric musculoskeletal system include evaluation of bone marrow, neoplastic processes, and periarticular disorders. 
Limitations of balloon angioplasty for vein graft stenosis. Vein graft stenosis remains an important contributing factor to the failure of infrainguinal arterial reconstruction. Repair of these lesions before graft occlusion provides sustained patency, yet the optimal method of repair has not been established. Percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty of these vein graft lesions has been repeatedly advocated as an alternative to surgical revision. Balloon angioplasty was used in 30 patients with 54 stenotic lesions occurring in autogenous vein grafts after infrainguinal reconstruction. The primary 5-year cumulative patency rate was 18% overall, with no significant differences observed among patency rates based on initial indication, length of stenotic lesion, or requirement for preliminary thrombolytic therapy. The 3-year patency rate associated with vein graft lesions requiring only a single angioplasty proved significantly higher (59%) than those requiring repetitive dilations (6%). It is our conclusion that balloon angioplasty for vein graft stenosis has significant limitations in providing sustained secondary patency. 
Immunohistochemical expression of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 in gastric carcinoma. Immunohistochemical localization for carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) was studied in the gastric tissues from 115 patients with advanced gastric carcinoma. We compared two groups: 57 patients who died of recurrence or metastases within 2 yr (group I) and 58 patients who survived 5 yr or more after resection (group II). The staining patterns were classified into negative, apical, and/or cytoplasmic type and stromal type. Thirty-three cases (58%) of group I showed a stromal type, whereas only 17 cases (30%) of group II showed the same type. In undifferentiated type carcinoma, the stromal type was seen in 20 cases (65%) of group I and seven cases (23%) of group II. However, in differentiated type carcinoma, there was only a small difference in the appearance of stromal type between group I (50%) and group II (37%). The immunohistochemical localization for CA19-9 in the tumor tissues, particularly in undifferentiated carcinoma, will be useful in predicting the prognosis of the patients with advanced gastric carcinoma. 
Stomal recurrence after laryngectomy: interrelated risk factor study. This study was designed to identify pathogenic factors in recurrent carcinoma at the tracheal stoma. The charts of 444 patients with laryngeal cancer who were treated surgically between 1976 and 1988 revealed stomal recurrence in 15 (3.4%). Eighty percent of the patients with stomal recurrence had tumors in the subglottis. In comparison to patients with different sites involved this was significant (p less than 0.001). Other variables examined and analyzed included primary stage, previous treatment, neck pathologic status, neck treatment, age, sex, postoperative adjunctive therapy, and timing of tracheotomy. Tumor involvement of the subglottis is the single most important variable in stomal recurrence of carcinoma. Previous conservation laryngeal surgery and preoperative/emergency tracheotomy are not related to stomal recurrence of carcinoma. Mean length of survival for patients with stomal recurrence of carcinoma in our series was 8.9 months. Two patients were successfully treated with extensive surgical resection. The dismal prognosis of stomal recurrence of carcinoma suggests that management of this condition should focus on prevention. Treatment of patients with tumors of the subglottis should include attention to the paratracheal region and superior mediastinum, in conjunction with laryngectomy immediately after initial diagnosis. 
Lung function abnormalities at 6 months of age after neonatal intensive care. Respiratory function was studied in 46 preterm infants (median gestational age 28 weeks) at 6 months of age. Respiratory function was assessed by measurement of thoracic gas volume, airways resistance (from which specific conductance was calculated), and functional residual capacity. To determine the effect of the duration of neonatal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) on respiratory function, the infants' results were divided into three groups: group A, no IPPV; group B, IPPV for less than seven days; and group C, IPPV for more than seven days. Measurements of thoracic gas volume and functional residual capacity were similar to published reference ranges and there were no significant differences between the three groups. Measurements of airways resistance and specific conductance were higher than published reference ranges (mean airways resistance of group A, 34 cm H2O/l/sec; B, 34.1 cm H2O/l/sec, and C, 30.4 cm H2O/l/sec) but there was no significant difference between the three groups. The 95% confidence intervals of the difference of the means between groups A and B were -6.94 to 6.73 cm H2O/l/sec and between groups A and C -3.8 to 11.0 cm H2O/l/sec. Our results suggest that factors other than neonatal ventilation may be more important in the pathogenesis of chronic lung function abnormalities in preterm infants. 
Transesophageal echocardiography: a simple method for monitoring the patency of ventriculoatrial shunts. Technical note. A new method for evaluating the patency of a ventriculoatrial shunt is described, and early experience with it is reported. Transesophageal echocardiography can demonstrate a cerebrospinal fluid leak in the right atrium through the atrial tip of a shunting device. This capability was an incidental discovery, and since then the accuracy of the technique in evaluating the patency of a ventriculoatrial shunt has been prospectively studied in 20 observations of 16 patients. The method proved to be accurate in 90% to 100% of cases. It is concluded that transesophageal echocardiography offers a rapid and accurate assessment of ventriculoatrial shunt function, is well tolerated, and is easy to perform. 
Efficacy and safety of intravenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone: Lutrepulse for injection. A multicenter trial was undertaken to assess the ability of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone to restore physiologic ovulatory function in women with diminished or absent pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion. In 109 women with primary and secondary hypothalamic amenorrhea, pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Lutrepulse [gonadorelin acetate] for Injection) was extremely effective, resulting in ovulation in 91% and 96% of patients, respectively. Overall complications of intravenous line placement ranged from 0% to 11% (mean = 7%). A 12% incidence of multiple pregnancy was noted, and a single case of ovarian hyperstimulation was reported in a woman who also received clomiphene citrate. Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone treatment appears to be of at least comparable efficacy to human menopausal gonadotropins, with the added benefit of reduced overall risks for the patient with hypothalamic amenorrhea. 
Liver glutathione and cytochrome P450 activity in experimental infection: study of the relative effects of infectious stress and malnutrition. OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of infection and malnutrition on liver glutathione and cytochrome P450 (P450) in rats. DESIGN: Controlled experimental groups (12 groups). ANIMALS: Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. INTERVENTIONS: Experimental endocarditis, pyelonephritis, or peritonitis were caused. Controls included free-fed rats and sham-operated rats, pair-fed to infected animals. Infection was verified by tissue culture. Rats were killed 3 days (acute infection) or 10 days (chronic infection, except endocarditis) after the induction of infection. RESULTS: Sham rats had lower liver weights, liver/body weight, and liver glutathione values than controls. Infected rats had larger liver weights and liver/body weight ratios and liver glutathione content than shams, and larger liver/body weight ratios than controls (acute infection). Infected rats had lower P450 values than both shams and controls. CONCLUSION: The malnutrition associated with infection caused decreased liver weight and glutathione content. Infection increased the liver weight, and liver glutathione content, but caused severe reduction in liver P450. If the same finding is true in infected patients, it could have consequences for the management of such patients. 
Which asymptomatic patients should undergo routine screening carotid duplex scan? The benefits of obtaining a routine screening carotid duplex scan have not been established for patients with peripheral vascular disease but no signs or symptoms of carotid artery disease. We retrospectively reviewed all carotid duplex scans (4,000) performed at our institution between 1985 through 1989 and found for analysis 91 scans in 78 patients who underwent a screening duplex scan because of the presence of peripheral vascular disease. Patients with carotid bruits, abnormal carotid pulses, and focal or nonspecific neurologic symptoms were excluded. Thirty-three percent of these patients had carotid stenosis of 16% to 50%, 14% had carotid stenosis greater than or equal to 50%, and 5% had stenosis greater than or equal to 75%. Individual risk factors for atherosclerosis, including elderly age, coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, and a recent or past history of cardiac or vascular surgery, did not predict the detection of high-grade carotid stenosis. However, all 11 of the patients with carotid stenosis greater than or equal to 50% were 68 years of age and older, and this age range, in combination with the various risk factors, increased the incidence of significant carotid artery stenosis (greater than or equal to 50%) to as high as 45%. We conclude that routine screening carotid duplex scan is indicated in elderly patients (age greater than or equal to 68 years) with peripheral vascular disease, even in the absence of any signs or symptoms of carotid artery disease, when other atherosclerotic risk factors are present. 
The Carney complex with ocular signs suggestive of cardiac myxoma. We treated a patient who had ophthalmic findings of the Carney complex that led to a search for and the discovery of asymptomatic cardiac myxoma. Substantial morbidity and mortality are associated with the complex because of the occurrence of cardiac myxoma. Facial and eyelid lentigines, conjunctival and caruncle pigmentation and eyelid pigmentation may precede signs or symptoms of cardiac myxoma. A study of the patient's primary relatives disclosed manifestations of the complex transmitted in a manner consistent with mendelian autosomal dominant inheritance. 
Epidemiology of chronic venous ulcers. A metropolitan population of 238,000 in Perth, Western Australia, was screened for chronic ulceration of the leg. Patients with a chronic leg ulcer and a venous abnormality comprised 57 per cent of all patients with a chronic leg ulcer, giving a prevalence of 0.62 per 1000 population. There was an increasing prevalence with age; 90 per cent of patients were 60 years and older. This group comprised 16.7 per cent of the population, and had a prevalence of 3.3 per 1000. Although chronic venous ulcers were more common in women there was no difference in age related prevalence. In 36 per cent of patients with a venous abnormality, there was at least one other aetiological factor contributing to chronic ulceration of the leg; 96 per cent had either a history of deep venous thrombosis or a condition known to predispose to deep venous thrombosis. 
Loss of heterozygosity for alleles on chromosome II in cervical carcinoma. The HeLa cell (a cervical carcinoma cell line) tumor-suppressor gene has been localized to the long arm of chromosome 11 by molecular genetic studies of nontumorigenic and tumorigenic hybrids derived from normal chromosome 11 x HeLa cell fusions. In the present study, 33 primary cervical carcinoma samples were analyzed using chromosome 11-specific polymorphic DNA markers. The RFLP analysis indicated a somatic loss of chromosome 11 heterozygosity in 10 (30%) of the primary tumors. Preferential loss of the long arm of the chromosome was observed in two of the primary tumors. In addition, at least eight-fold amplification of sequences in the q13 region, including those coding for the fibroblast growth factor-related gene (int-2), was observed in one of the primary tumors. These results suggest a possible role for gene(s) localized to chromosome 11, possibly that localized to the long arm in the development and/or progression of cervical carcinomas. 
Flow cytometric deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in stage I renal cell carcinoma. Tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) content was analyzed by flow cytometry in 60 consecutive patients with stage I renal cell carcinoma. Of 59 evaluable tumors 27 (46%) were homogeneously diploid, 1 (2%) was tetraploid and 31 (52%) were aneuploid. Of the 32 nondiploid tumors 25 were heterogeneous concerning ploidy. One of the 27 patients with diploid tumors had metastases compared to 5 of the 32 patients with nondiploid tumors (not significant). There was a significant difference in survival between patients with diploid and nondiploid tumors (p = 0.043). Neither nuclear grade, tumor cell type nor tumor size correlated with survival. Analysis of DNA content seems to predict survival significantly for patients with stage I renal cell carcinoma. 
Composite graft repair of Marfan aneurysm of the ascending aorta: results in 100 patients. One hundred consecutive patients with the Marfan syndrome underwent composite graft repair of an ascending aortic aneurysm between September 1976 and June 1989. Twenty-two patients had ascending aortic dissection at the time of composite graft repair; 18 patients also had a mitral valve procedure. There were no hospital deaths among 92 patients undergoing elective repair. One of 8 patients undergoing emergency repair of a ruptured aneurysm died in the operating room. The overall hospital mortality rate was 1%. There have been ten late deaths among the 99 hospital survivors (10.1%). Five deaths occurred among the first 11 patients in this series and five occurred among the last 88 patients (5.7%). Three late deaths resulted from composite graft endocarditis; 3 other patients with endocarditis are alive after aortic root replacement with cryopreserved homografts. Late coronary dehiscence caused death in 1 patient and was successfully repaired in a second. Actuarial survival for the 100 patients was 92.6% at 5 years and 75.8% at 10 years. Currently, composite graft repair of Marfan aneurysms of the ascending aorta can be performed with low hospital and late mortality. Marfan aneurysms with a diameter of 6 cm or greater should be repaired with the Bentall composite graft procedure, even if the patient is asymptomatic. 
Vascularised fibular graft for congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia. Long-term results. Five children with congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia treated by free vascularised fibular grafts were followed up until skeletal maturity. The ipsilateral fibula was used in four cases, the contralateral fibula in one. All our cases achieved bone union, but leg length discrepancy, atrophy of the foot and ankle stiffness were frequent complications, due perhaps to the many previous operations. Vascularised fibular grafting might achieve better results if it were done as the primary procedure. 
Optical urethrotomy under local urethral anaesthesia. A series of 46 patients underwent 76 optical urethrotomies under local urethral anaesthesia in the out-patient clinic; in 70% of patients the strictures were controlled by local anaesthetic urethrotomy alone; 61% felt either no pain or mild pain during the procedure; 72% expressed a preference for local anaesthesia should the procedure have to be repeated and 82% were happy with the result of their treatment. Optical urethrotomy under local urethral anaesthesia produces results comparable to those reported by others using general anaesthesia. If large numbers of patients are to be treated, possibly repeatedly, then out-patient urethrotomy may result in more efficient use of resources. 
Current treatment of patients surviving out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Most out-of-hospital cardiac arrests result from the sudden onset of a sustained ventricular arrhythmia in the absence of a new myocardial infarction. Individuals who survive cardiac arrest are at high risk for recurrent arrhythmias and sudden unexpected death. To prevent recurrent cardiac arrest, effective treatment must be provided during hospitalization after the initial episode. Caring for the survivor of cardiac arrest requires a detailed clinical investigation to define the underlying cardiac anatomy and left ventricular function and to elucidate the mechanism and characteristics of the patient's arrhythmia. Appropriate antiarrhythmic therapy, such as drugs or a nonpharmacological intervention (eg, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator), is then selected based on these considerations. In addition, ischemia is treated aggressively with beta-adrenergic blocking agents and, when appropriate, with surgical coronary artery revascularization. 
Differential expression of epidermal growth factor-related proteins in human colorectal tumors. Amphiregulin (AR) and cripto are proteins that are structurally related to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha). AR is also functionally related to this family of growth regulatory molecules and is able to bind and activate the 170-kDa EGF receptor (EGFR). Human EGFR-3 (HER3)/ERBB3 is a recently identified protein related to the EGFR that is widely expressed in breast carcinomas and is a candidate receptor for EGF-like growth factors. Differential expression of these putative ligands and receptors in transformed cells suggests that they may function in an autocrine manner to regulate tumor cell growth. Specific mRNA transcripts for TGF-alpha [4.8 kilobases (kb)], AR (1.4 kb), cripto (2.2 kb), and HER3 (6.2 kb) were expressed in a majority of human colon cancer cell lines. HER3 mRNA was detected in 55% of primary or metastatic human colorectal carcinomas but in only 22% of normal colon mucosa and 32% of normal liver samples. In contrast, cripto and AR mRNA were expressed in 60-70% of primary or metastatic human colorectal cancers but in only 2-7% of normal human colonic mucosa. Immunostaining also detected AR protein in primary and metastatic colorectal tumors but not in normal colon or uninvolved liver. These findings suggest that cripto and AR may be useful markers to discriminate between normal and malignant colonic epithelium and may provide a selective growth advantage for colorectal carcinomas. 
Helicobacter pylori infection in healthy people: a dynamic process? Epidemiological studies using serological tests have shown that a large proportion of healthy people have antibodies against Helicobacter pylori (anti-Hp). It is uncertain whether the presence of anti-Hp indicates active infection or only past exposure to the micro-organism. In this study we determined anti-Hp with a specific enzyme linked immunosorbent assay in 100 healthy volunteers who were at the same time investigated for active H pylori infection by means of the 13C-urea breath test. Forty nine per cent had a high anti-Hp titre, but only 24% had active H pylori infection. Our study suggests that a considerable number of healthy people previously infected with H pylori have spontaneously eliminated this microorganism. We suggest that the inability of ulcer patients to eliminate H pylori may be important in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease. 
The state of the p53 and retinoblastoma genes in human cervical carcinoma cell lines. Human cervical carcinoma cell lines that were either positive or negative for human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA sequences were analyzed for evidence of mutation of the p53 and retinoblastoma genes. Each of five HPV-positive cervical cancer cell lines expressed normal pRB and low levels of wild-type p53 proteins, which are presumed to be altered in function as a consequence of association with HPV E7 and E6 oncoproteins, respectively. In contrast, mutations were identified in the p53 and RB genes expressed in the C-33A and HT-3 cervical cancer cell lines, which lack HPV DNA sequences. Mutations in the p53 genes mapped to codon 273 and codon 245 in the C33-A and HT-3 cell lines, respectively, located in the highly conserved regions of p53, where mutations appear in a variety of human cancers. Mutations in RB occurred at splice junctions, resulting in in-frame deletions, affecting exons 13 and 20 in the HT-3 and C-33A cell lines, respectively. These mutations resulted in aberrant proteins that were not phosphorylated and were unable to complex with the adenovirus E1A oncoprotein. These results support the hypothesis that the inactivation of the normal functions of the tumor-suppressor proteins pRB and p53 are important steps in human cervical carcinogenesis, either by mutation or from complex formation with the HPV E6 and E7 oncoproteins. 
Renal cell carcinoma in children. Six cases of renal cell carcinoma in children between seven and nineteen years of age are reported. These patients differ from those with Wilms tumor chiefly in the age of presentation and response to chemotherapy. Radiographically, renal cell carcinoma cannot be distinguished from Wilms tumor. While the natural history of renal cell carcinoma appears to be similar in children and adults, it may have a more favorable prognosis below the age of ten years. 
Delayed excitatory reaction following interaction of cocaine and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (phenelzine). A case report is presented in which a patient receiving the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, phenelzine, developed a delayed excitatory reaction following administration of topical cocaine spray during anaesthesia for vocal cord surgery. The pharmacological basis of the drug interaction is discussed. 
Comorbidity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with conduct, depressive, anxiety, and other disorders. OBJECTIVE: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is a heterogeneous disorder of unknown etiology. Little is known about the comorbidity of this disorder with disorders other than conduct. Therefore, the authors made a systematic search of the psychiatric and psychological literature for empirical studies dealing with the comorbidity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with other disorders. DATA COLLECTION: The search terms included hyperactivity, hyperkinesis, attention deficit disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cross-referenced with antisocial disorder (aggression, conduct disorder, antisocial disorder), depression (depression, mania, depressive disorder, bipolar), anxiety (anxiety disorder, anxiety), learning problems (learning, learning disability, academic achievement), substance abuse (alcoholism, drug abuse), mental retardation, and Tourette's disorder. FINDINGS: The literature supports considerable comorbidity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with conduct disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, learning disabilities, and other disorders, such as mental retardation, Tourette's syndrome, and borderline personality disorder. CONCLUSIONS: Subgroups of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder might be delineated on the basis of the disorder's comorbidity with other disorders. These subgroups may have differing risk factors, clinical courses, and pharmacological responses. Thus, their proper identification may lead to refinements in preventive and treatment strategies. Investigation of these issues should help to clarify the etiology, course, and outcome of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
Alterations in myocyte shape and basement membrane attachment with tachycardia-induced heart failure. Chronic supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) results in left ventricular (LV) dilatation and dysfunction. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for LV failure in this setting are not known. LV force production is dependent on the coupling of myocytes to the extracellular matrix, which is mediated through the basement membrane. This study was designed to determine whether alterations in myocyte geometry and basement membrane attachment are associated with LV failure in a pacing-induced model of cardiomyopathy. Echocardiographic measurement of LV function was performed in six pigs after 3 weeks of pacing-induced SVT (240 beats/min) and in eight sham-operated controls. Myocytes from these hearts were isolated, and attachment studies to specific components of the basement membrane were performed using laminin, fibronectin, and collagen IV. The SVT group when compared with the control group showed a significant reduction of LV fractional shortening (14 +/- 2% versus 31 +/- 2%, respectively; p less than 0.05), increased end-diastolic dimension (50 +/- 1 versus 35 +/- 1 mm, respectively; p less than 0.05), and lengthening of isolated myocytes (196 +/- 18 versus 142 +/- 9 microns, respectively; p less than 0.05). Myocyte attachment to laminin (50 micrograms/ml) was significantly decreased at 60 minutes in the SVT group compared with the control group (18.2 +/- 4.5 versus 60.9 +/- 4.5 cells/mm2, respectively; p less than 0.05). Similar reductions in myocyte attachment to fibronectin and collagen IV were observed. Ultrastructural examination of LV sections revealed focal disruptions of the basement membrane-sarcolemmal interface and a reduced number of sarcolemmal festoons in SVT hearts compared with control hearts (0.8 +/- 0.6 versus 2.8 +/- 0.8/4 microns, respectively; p less than 0.05). These alterations in myocyte morphology and basement membrane attachment may contribute to the LV failure associated with chronic SVT. Further, these structural changes may play a significant role in the progression of ventricular dysfunction as well as recovery from chronic SVT. 
Selective cytotoxicity of low-density lipoprotein to helper T cells of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma after photoperoxidation with 8-methoxypsoralen. Lymphocyte-containing plasma subjected to photolysis in the presence of 8-methoxypsoralen (methoxsalen, 8-MOP) has previously been shown to be effective against cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and the AIDS-related complex. The mechanism of this effect was thought to involve photoreaction of 8-MOP with DNA, based on certain in vitro experiments. The results of this study suggest a different mechanism. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) from fresh human plasma was photosensitized by addition of 8-MOP and exposure to UV light (mp-LDL), and the reactions of the LDL lipids and the chemical actions induced by these reactions were monitored. In a separate procedure, LDL was peroxidized with hydrogen peroxide and peroxidase (p-LDL). mp-LDL and p-LDL were then tested in cytotoxicity assays on HuT-78 helper T cells of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. These results indicate that (a) LDL in plasma in the presence of very low concentrations of 8-MOP (200 ng/mL) can be peroxidized by UV light; (b) this photoperoxidized LDL is cytotoxic to helper T cells of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in a dose-dependent manner; but (c) it does not kill normal lymphocytes under similar conditions. The findings also suggest alternative therapeutic strategies for treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, such as direct utilization of peroxidized LDL. 
Monosialoganglioside in subarachnoid hemorrhage [published erratum appears in Stroke 1991 Jul;22(7):957] We studied 119 patients with disturbance of consciousness following subarachnoid hemorrhage, due mostly to verified aneurysm rupture, admitted to five Italian neurosurgical departments over 18 months. Level of consciousness as assessed by score on the Glasgow coma Scale ranged from 8 to 14 before the beginning of treatment; level of consciousness was assessed again 7, 14, and 21 days later. Patients were randomly allocated to treatment with monosialoganglioside or placebo according to a double-blind experimental design. The two treatment groups were homogeneous at entry with regard to the main clinical parameters. Both groups improved, but the rate and degree of improvement were greater in the monosialoganglioside-treated group. The difference was significant on days 14 (p = 0.04) and 21 (p = 0.02). Our results seem to confirm the hypothesis that monosialoganglioside reduces brain edema and provides nonspecific neuronal membrane protection. 
Antenatal therapy to minimize neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage. Periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage is an important problem, resulting in significant mortality and morbidity. Attempts to reduce this complication require an understanding of its pathogenesis. In this chapter a model was proposed, consisting of a series of events resulting in rapid changes of cerebral blood flow and intracranial pressure and leading to rupture of the unique fragile vessels of the germinal matrix and intraventricular regions. Understanding the beneficial physiologic changes induced by such agents such as phenobarbital and vitamin K and that such pharmacologic therapy must be started during the antenatal period has resulted in significant reductions of severe grades of IVH. Further prospective studies are needed to confirm these results using these two drugs alone and in combination. Other potentially beneficial drugs such as indomethacin should be investigated. Although the benefits of such therapy may improve perinatal outcome, the emphasis in our discipline should be the continued attempt to prevent the delivery of these VLBW infants. 
Clinical and CT correlates in the diagnosis of intracranial tumours. The correlation between clinical and CT findings in cerebral tumours was prospectively studied in 1191 consecutive referrals for cerebral CT. CT revealed a mass lesion in 51 cases (4.3%): 32 neoplasms, five haematomas and one abscess. The diagnostic specificity of CT for neoplasmic tumours was 86% (32 of 37). The clinical suspicion of a cerebral neoplasm was correct in 25 cases (78%) and the clinical localisatory hypothesis was correct in 20 cases (63%) of the neoplasms. A cerebral tumour was found in 5% (11 out of 226) of patients investigated for their first seizure and in 1% (two of 207) investigated for headache without clinical signs. 
Anorectal physiology testing. A survey of availability and use. Survey forms were sent to all members of the Coloproctology Section of the Royal Society of Medicine and the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons to obtain their opinions of the availability, actual use, and perceived helpfulness of different methods for the evaluation of the physiology of the colon and rectum. Responses revealed a similarity in age and practice patterns in both groups. Of the 19 methods surveyed, greater than 90 percent of respondents in both groups rely on three traditional methods of patient evaluation: patient history, digital examination, and sigmoidoscopy. Four other methods have gained acceptance by the majority of respondents in both groups: colon transit studies, defecography, perfused-catheter manometry, and rectal compliance. The three methods ranked lowest in availability, actual use, and helpfulness by both groups were single-fiber electromyography, use of a perineometer, and evoked potential studies. Our study provides a baseline for future surveys on the investigative efforts of physicians studying the physiology of the colon, rectum, and anus. 
Familial multicentric paragangliomas in a child. A 12-year-old girl presented with bilateral carotid-body paragangliomas and a unilateral jugular paraganglioma. The tumours were surgically removed. This is a rare combination of tumours in any patient and previously unreported in a child of this age. Her father died of a cerebellar astrocytoma and her mother underwent surgical removal of a large mediastinal paraganglioma. The association of astrocytoma with familial paragangliomas has never been documented. The literature on the epidemiology and inheritance pattern of familial paragangliomas is reviewed. The need for thorough pre-operative evaluation of the patient and close follow-up of family members is stressed. 
Role of hepatitis delta virus infection in hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA integrates into the host DNA and shows a series of potentially oncogenetic properties, but HBV is not an acutely transforming virus, because HCC develops decades after infection. Other factors, namely cirrhosis, inflammation, alcohol intake, and viral superinfections, could promote the oncogenetic process induced by HBV-DNA integration. We studied the impact of HDV infection in the pathogenesis of HCC in 62 consecutive patients. Their mean age was 59 years (range 25-75 years), 54 were male and eight female; 58 had cirrhosis. The findings suggest that HBsAg-positive patients with HDV superinfection developed cirrhosis and HCC at an earlier age than HBsAg carriers without HDV infection. HDV appears to represent a "promotion" factor for HCC in subjects with an oncogenic risk induced by HBV. A long-lasting necroinflammatory lesion of the liver substained by productive HBV and HDV infections may be a major pathogenetic mechanism. 
A pilot study of the efficacy and safety of bolus administration of alteplase in acute myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE--To examine the efficacy, safety, and the pharmacokinetic profile of a bolus dose administration regimen of alteplase in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. DESIGN--An open pilot study. SETTING--District general hospital. PATIENTS--33 suitable consecutive patients presenting within six hours of the onset of symptoms who satisfied the electrocardiographic criteria for acute myocardial infarction. INTERVENTIONS--Two intravenous boluses of 35 mg alteplase, 30 minutes apart. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Angiographic coronary patency at 90 minutes and 24 hours. Plasma alteplase concentration-time profile and pharmacokinetic analysis. RESULTS--Coronary patency at 90 minutes: 26 of 30 arteries (87%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 74-99%). Coronary patency at 24 hours: 24 of 29 arteries (83%, CI 69-97%). Mean (SD) plasma tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) concentration reached 4434.8 (2117.8) and 4233.3 (2217.5) ng/ml within 10 minutes of each bolus and fell to 425.8 (288.3) ng/ml between boluses. The estimated peak concentrations at two minutes after boluses were 12,389 (8580) ng/ml and 10,811 (6802) ng/ml. The derived pharmacokinetic variables were volume of distribution 3.11 (1.89) 1, clearance 21.3 (9.3) 1/h, half life 5.9 (1.7) minutes. CONCLUSIONS--This simple administration regimen achieved brief, high concentrations of plasma t-PA that were well tolerated. The regimen was associated with a high coronary patency rate at 90 minutes that was well maintained at 24 hours. 
Altered myocardial high-energy phosphate metabolites in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Myocardial high-energy phosphate metabolism in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) of ischemic or idiopathic etiology was assessed at rest by one-dimensional phase-encoded 31P-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy studies performed in conjunction with 1H imaging in 20 patients with DCM and in 12 normal volunteers. The measured values of anterior myocardial phosphocreatine/beta-adenosine triphosphate (PCr/beta-ATP), corrected for partial saturation and contamination of the spectra by blood metabolites, averaged 1.80 +/- 0.06 (mean +/- SE) in normal volunteers and 1.46 +/- 0.07 in the patients overall, a highly significant (p less than 0.001) decrease. In patients with DCM accompanied by coronary artery disease (n = 9), the PCr/beta-ATP ratio averaged 1.53 +/- 0.07, while in those with DCM alone it was 1.41 +/- 0.12 (n = 11), a value that was not significantly different. There was no significant correlation (r = 0.34) between myocardial PCr/ATP ratio and left ventricular ejection fraction in patients. These studies demonstrate that myocardial PCr/ATP ratios are reduced at rest in human ischemic and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Angelchik prosthesis complicates treatment of adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus. Indications for use of the Angelchik prosthesis remain controversial, and many surgeons actively involved in the treatment of reflux disease have not used the device. We describe a case that illustrates difficulties associated with resection of a tumor in the presence of this prothesis. Such experience suggests that patients known to have Barrett's esophagus might be better treated with standard antireflux procedures. 
Effect of graded reductions of coronary pressure and flow on myocardial metabolism and performance: a model of "hibernating" myocardium. The term "hibernating" myocardium has been applied to chronic left ventricular dysfunction without angina or ischemic electrocardiographic changes in patients with coronary artery disease that is reversed by therapy that increases myocardial blood flow. To investigate the relation between coronary blood flow and ventricular function experimentally, graded reductions in coronary artery pressure were produced in isolated perfused rat hearts as contractile performance (peak systolic pressure and its first derivative [dP/dt]) and metabolic variables were measured using phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. As coronary pressure and flow were reduced, significant reductions in myocardial oxygen consumption and contractile performance were observed, which returned to control levels when coronary artery pressure and flow were restored to baseline values. Two phases of metabolic abnormality were observed. With modest reductions in coronary perfusion, proportionate reductions in myocardial oxygen consumption and contractile behavior were accompanied by a slight reduction in creatine phosphate but no significant lactate production. With greater reductions in coronary artery pressure and flow, creatine phosphate decreased more, adenosine triphosphate levels and myocardial pH decreased significantly and myocardial lactate production increased. The balanced reductions in myocardial contractility and oxygen consumption without metabolic abnormalities traditionally associated with "ischemia" observed in the first phase provides evidence in normal hearts for resetting of the myocardial contractile behavior and oxygen consumption in the presence of reduced coronary flow (that is, hibernating myocardium). The data suggest that reductions in adenosine diphosphate and the index of the reduced form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) (lactate formation) do not explain the coupling between coronary artery pressure and flow and myocardial oxygen consumption as contractile performance decreases. 
Pulmonary and urinary clearance of atrial natriuretic factor in acute congestive heart failure in dogs. Atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) is a peptide hormone of cardiac origin elevated in acute congestive heart failure (CHF), which is degraded by the enzyme neutral endopeptidase 24.11 (NEP). This study was designed to investigate the pulmonary and urinary clearance of ANF before and after the initiation of acute experimental CHF in dogs, and to assess the contribution of enzymatic degradation to these clearances in CHF. This study demonstrated a significant clearance of plasma ANF across the pulmonary circulation at baseline, and a tendency for pulmonary clearance to decrease in CHF (1115 +/- 268 to 498 +/- 173 ml/min, NS). The pulmonary extraction of ANF present at baseline was not altered with acute CHF (36.0 +/- 7.8 to 34.9 +/- 12.1%, NS). NEP inhibition (NEPI) abolished both the clearance and extraction of plasma ANF across the lung in CHF. Similarly, significant urinary clearance of ANF was present at baseline, and in acute CHF the urinary clearance of ANF decreased (0.14 +/- 0.02 to 0.02 +/- 0.01 ml/min, P less than 0.05). NEPI prevented the decrease in the urinary clearance of ANF, and enhanced the renal response to endogenous ANF, independent of further increases in plasma ANF during CHF. This study supports an important role for NEP in the pulmonary and urinary metabolism of endogenous ANF during acute CHF. 
Non-trauma mortality in elderly women with low bone mineral density. Study of Osteoporotic Fractures Research Group. 9704 ambulatory women aged 65 years or older were prospectively studied to determine whether low bone mineral density (osteopenia) was associated with mortality. Bone mineral density was measured at entry to the study by single-photon absorptiometry. 299 women died during a mean of 2.8 years' follow-up. Osteopenia was associated with increased non-trauma mortality, probably because it is a marker for several other adverse factors. Each standard deviation decrease in proximal radius bone mineral density (0.104 g/cm2) was associated with a 1.19-fold increase in mortality (95% confidence interval 1.04-1.36), adjusted for age and duration of follow-up. Diminished bone mineral density at the proximal radius was strongly associated with deaths from stroke (relative risk = 1.74; 95% CI 1.12-2.70), an association that was not confounded by history of previous stroke, hypertension, postmenopausal use of oestrogen, thiazide diuretic treatment, diabetes mellitus, and smoking. Most deaths in women with low bone mineral density are unrelated to the occurrence of fractures-an observation that should be taken into account when estimating the need for and cost-effectiveness of bone-density screening and fracture prevention programmes. 
Reversible inactivation of the insular cortex by tetrodotoxin produces retrograde and anterograde amnesia for inhibitory avoidance and spatial learning. Tetrodotoxin (TTX; a voltage-sensitive sodium channel blocker) was microinjected bilaterally into the insular (IC), frontal (FC), or parietal (PC) cortex or the ventral caudate nucleus of rats either before or after they were trained in an inhibitory avoidance task. When administered either before or after training, injections of TTX into the IC impaired performance on a 48-hr retention test. Injections of TTX into the PC also impaired retention when administered before training. One week later, rats with cannulae in the IC, FC, and PC received microinjections of TTX either before or after training in a water maze (Morris) spatial learning task and retention was tested 24 hr later. TTX impaired retention when administered to the IC either before or after training. These findings indicate that a functionally intact IC during and after training in these tasks appears to be essential for the storage of long-term memory. 
The effect of elemental diet on intestinal permeability and inflammation in Crohn's disease. This study examines whether treatment of acute Crohn's disease with an elemental diet improves intestinal integrity and inflammation as assessed by a 51Cr-labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetatic acid (EDTA) permeability test and the fecal excretion of 111In-labeled autologous leukocytes, respectively. Thirty-four patients with active Crohn's disease completed a 4-week treatment course with an elemental diet. Active disease was characterized by increased intestinal permeability [24-hour urine excretion of orally administered 51Cr-EDTA, 6.4% +/- 0.6% (mean +/- SE); normal, less than 3.0%] and by high fecal excretion of 111In-labeled leukocytes (14.2% +/- 1.1%; normal, less than 1.0%). Twenty-seven (80%) went into clinical remission, usually within a week of starting treatment. After 4 weeks of treatment, there was a significant decrease in both the urine excretion of 51Cr-EDTA (to 3.4% +/- 0.5%; P less than 0.01) and the fecal excretion of 111In (to 5.7% +/- 1.0%; P less than 0.001), indicating that such treatment is not just symptomatic. A framework for the mechanism by which elemental diet works, centering around the importance of the integrity of the intestinal barrier function, is proposed, and also appears to provide a logical explanation for some relapses of the disease. 
The effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy on renal growth, function and arterial blood pressure in an animal model. The long-term effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) on children treated for renal calculi are unclear. To study the long-term bio-effects of this mode of treatment on the immature animal we evaluated 30 New Zealand white rabbits at 7 weeks of age for weight, serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine, and arterial blood pressure after which they underwent left nephrectomy. Each group of 5 rabbits received ESWL of varying levels (500 to 3,000 shock waves) to the remaining right kidney using the Northgate SD3 lithotriptor (spark gap mediated). One control group received no shock waves. At maturity (16 weeks) the aforementioned parameters were measured again, and the kidneys and any grossly abnormal adjacent organs were examined. We found no significant change in total animal growth, renal growth, renal function or perirenal organs in the post-ESWL groups versus the control group. All post-ESWL groups had an increase in mean arterial blood pressure versus the control group with 3 of 6 groups showing significant increases (p less than 0.05). Histological renal changes, seen at all energy levels of ESWL delivered, included interstitial fibrosis, tubular atrophy, glomeruli destruction, capsular thickening, perivascular fibrosis and mild arteriole wall thickening. Changes were proportional to the number of shocks received. We conclude that ESWL delivered to immature animals does not significantly affect renal growth and function but it can cause significant permanent histological renal changes even at low doses and may result in an increase in adult mean arterial blood pressure. 
Secretory diarrhea following a dog bite. Overwhelming sepsis is rarely complicated by secretory diarrhea. We present a case of fulminant sepsis associated with dermatologic manifestations, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and a severe secretory diarrhea that has not previously been described. This followed a dog bite, and the patient was otherwise healthy. The combination of septic shock, skin lesions, and DIC occurring after a dog bite has been attributed to dysgonic fermentor 2 organisms, now called Capnocytophaga canimorsus, but none were cultured in this case (7). Dysgonic fermentor-2 may be a new cause of secretory diarrhea and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of overwhelming sepsis associated with diarrhea. 
Long-term efficacy of oral cisapride in symptomatic upper gut dysmotility. We conducted a 12-month trial of cisapride (10 mg three times a day) in 21 patients with gastric stasis due to clinically and manometrically diagnosed gastroparesis (N = 9; seven due to diabetes) or chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (N = 12). Radionuclide solid-liquid gastric emptying tests were performed at baseline and at the end of the 12-month period. Symptoms were assessed monthly by diary and every three months by the investigators; frequency and severity of symptoms were scored in a standardized manner. For the whole group of 21 patients, gastric emptying of both solids and liquids improved significantly after one year of cisapride (P less than 0.05). Among chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction patients, there was predominantly an improvement in gastric emptying of solids; in contrast, patients with gastroparesis had a greater improvement in liquid emptying. Total symptom score improved significantly in the gastroparesis group (median score: 8 at baseline vs 6 at one year, P less than 0.05) but not in the chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction patients (median score at baseline 10 vs 9 at one year). Similarly, body weight showed a trend towards improvement in the gastroparesis group. No significant side effects were noted. We conclude that during a 12-month open trial, cisapride was effective in improving gastric emptying in patients with gastric stasis and consistently improved symptoms in those with gastroparesis. 
Growth patterns and prognosis of submucosal carcinoma of the esophagus. A pathologic study. Sixteen cases of esophageal carcinoma invading the submucosa were analyzed in terms of growth patterns. Seven were classified into the massively penetrating (down growth) type, four into the superficially spreading (spreading growth) type, and five into the unclassified type. In the down growth type, the ratio of the submucosal area to the total (mucosa and submucosa) area was more than 0.2 (one fifth), and in the others that ratio was less than 0.2. The down growth type is characterized by a tendency toward elevated lesions, a high incidence of vessel invasions and lymph node metastasis, and a poor prognosis after surgery. Lymphatic and/or vascular invasions were recognized in six of seven cases, and the 5-year survival rate was 0%. In contrast, the spreading growth and unclassified types was characterized by superficial lesions, a low incidence of vessel invasions and lymph node metastasis, and a favorable prognosis. In only one with the spreading growth type was there lymphatic invasion. Three of the four with the spreading growth type survived over 5 years, and the other one with the spreading growth type and all of five with the unclassified type are alive without recurrences 15 to 52 months after surgery. Thus, growth patterns reflect well the prognosis of the submucosal carcinoma of the esophagus. 
Cerebral balloon angioplasty for treatment of vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty can offer marked improvement to selected patients with ischemic deficits caused by cerebral vasospasm. Vasospasm resulting from subarachnoid hemorrhage related to aneurysmal rupture or occurring during detachable balloon embolization therapy for treatment of an aneurysm has responded to angioplasty when conventional methods have failed. Indications, appropriate timing, patient selection, and nursing implications for cerebral angioplasty are discussed in this article. 
Home blood pressure monitoring for mild hypertensives. A clinical trial of 204 untreated patients with mild hypertension was conducted to assess the effect of home blood pressure monitoring on blood pressure level, pharmacologic treatment, reduction of risk factors, and use of health services. After 1 year, no statistically significant differences were found between the treatment and control groups. The findings indicate that, while home blood pressure monitoring may be useful, it has no measurable short-term impact on these aspects of blood pressure management for patients with mild hypertension. 
Cecal rupture after continent ileocecal urinary diversion during total pelvic exenteration. Continent ureteral diversion at the time of pelvic exenteration avoids an external appliance and allows patients to retain "bladder" reservoir function. The technical difficulty of this procedure requires meticulous attention to operative and perioperative care, particularly after pelvic irradiation. A patient with recurrent stage IIIB carcinoma of the cervix underwent total pelvic exenteration with reconstructive procedures including low rectal anastomosis, neovagina formation, and ileocecal (Indiana) continent diversion. Early catheterization of the reservoir began 2 weeks postoperatively. One week later cecal rupture occurred, not related to suture line (technical) failure. Because of the high wall tension and reduced compliance in the irradiated cecum, we do not recommend catheterization of the urinary reservoir before 4-6 weeks. In order for continent diversion to become the standard diversion in exenteration patients, the major complication rate must remain comparable to that of noncontinent diversion. 
Isoflurane partially preserves energy balance in isolated hepatocytes during in vitro anoxia. We investigated whether a volatile anesthetic (1.5% isoflurane or 1.0% halothane) or an added anaerobic energy source (10 mM glucose or fructose) could act directly on liver cells to protect energy status during 20-30 min of anoxia. We used hepatocytes freshly isolated from fed rats or rats that had fasted, suspended them in Krebs' buffer, and incubated them in sealed flasks under O2/CO2 or N2/CO2 (95%:5%). The adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ratio (ATP/ADP) measured cellular energy balance--the balance between overall ATP supply and demand. Lactate levels measured the extent to which ATP was supplied by the nonmitochondrial pathway, (anaerobic) glycolysis. Maximum values of energy balance were seen in cells from fed rats incubated in the presence of glucose and O2. When glucose was replaced by fructose, ATP/ADP decreased and lactate increased. During anoxia (O2 replaced by N2), increases in lactate were also seen with glucose; and ATP/ADP decreased to similarly low values with both substrates. In cells from fasted rats, ATP/ADP decreased significantly below the value for cells from fed rats only in the presence of glucose and O2. Compared with cells from fed rats, cells from fasted rats showed decreased lactate in the face of decreased ATP/ADP, suggesting that glycolysis was impaired. Isoflurane partially prevented anoxia-induced decreases in ATP/ADP. This protective effect on energy balance occurred equally with glucose and fructose, but was not seen in cells from fasted rats or with halothane. Thus, 1 MAC isoflurane and some factor(s) related to the fed state combined to protect partially the energy balance in anoxic liver cells through action(s) at the cellular level. 
CAncer Rehabilitation Evaluation System--short form (CARES-SF). A cancer specific rehabilitation and quality of life instrument. The CAncer Rehabilitation Evaluation System (CARES) (CARES Consultants, Santa Monica, CA) a rehabilitation and quality of life instrument with well-documented reliability and validity, has been shortened. This report describes the development and psychometric properties of the new instrument, the CAncer Rehabilitation Evaluation System--Short Form (CARES-SF). The data from four existing samples of cancer patients demonstrate that the CARES-SF is highly related to the CARES (r = 0.98), has excellent test-retest reliability (86% agreement), concurrent validity with related measures, and acceptable internal consistency of summary scales (alpha = 0.85 to 0.61). In a new sample of breast cancer patients evaluated at three points in time (1 month, 7 months, and 13 months after diagnosis) the instrument appears to be sensitive to change and is highly related to the Functional Living Index--Cancer (FLIC), an existing quality of life instrument. The authors conclude that the CARES-SF has excellent potential as a quality of life instrument for use in clinical trials. 
A prospective evaluation of hepatic resection for colorectal carcinoma metastases to the liver: Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group Protocol 6584. We report here the results of the first multiinstitutional prospective evaluation of patients considered to have potentially resectable hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma. One hundred fifty-six patients were enrolled from 15 institutions. Six patients were subsequently excluded. One hundred fifty patients underwent surgery and are evaluable for analysis (median follow-up time, 3.1 years; range, 4 months to 5.1 years). Curative resection could be performed on 46% of patients (69 of 150), noncurative resection on 12% (18 of 150), while 42% were found to be unresectable (63 of 150). Thirty-day surgical mortality and morbidity rates in patients with attempted resection were 2.7% and 13%, respectively. The curative resection group was observed to have an improved median survival (37.1 months) compared with the noncurative resection group (21.2 months) and the unresectable group (16.5 months) (P less than .01). Computed tomographic (CT) scan was a poor predictor for resectability, and age was not a contraindication to curative resection. Preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) values were also a poor predictor for resectability. However, the median CEA value 61 to 180 days postsurgery was significantly higher in unresectable patients compared with median CEA levels in noncuratively and curatively resected groups (P less than .01). Our results imply that curative resection leads to an increase in median survival. Noncurative resection provides no benefit to asymptomatic patients, since unresectable and noncurative resection groups have similar life expectancies. Longer follow-up will be needed to demonstrate the ultimate impact of curative resection on survival. 
Cytofluorometric analysis of metastases from lung adenocarcinoma with special reference to the difference between hematogenous and lymphatic metastases. Metastatic tumors in the brain, liver, and regional lymph nodes (20 cases each) from patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung were examined by cytofluorometric analysis, and compared with the respective primary lung tumors. The nuclear DNA content of tumor cells was significantly increased in metastatic tumors in the brain and liver compared with the primary (P less than 0.01). However, the DNA content of metastatic tumors in regional lymph nodes was almost identical to that of the primary tumor in many instances. From the viewpoint of the nuclear DNA content of lung adenocarcinoma, blood-borne tumor cells in the brain and liver were considered likely to constitute a discrete tumor cell subpopulation, i.e., probably a more malignant one, different from the major subpopulation in the primary tumor, whereas lymphatic metastases in regional lymph nodes were similar to the primary. The subpopulation with an increased DNA content in hematogenous metastases were thought to have originated from a minor subpopulation in the primary tumor or to have developed at the metastatic site. 
Ovulation induction with gonadotropins in women with polycystic ovary disease. Seventy-two infertile women with polycystic ovary disease (PCOD) and clomiphene citrate treatment failure underwent 220 human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) treatment cycles for ovulation induction over a period of 19 months. Forty-two patients ovulated but failed to conceive on clomiphene, and the remaining 30 failed to ovulate on clomiphene. Monitoring of treatment consisted of serum 17 beta-estradiol (E2) levels and ultrasonic assessment of follicular growth. Treatment was withheld whenever the E2 levels exceeded 1,500 pg/mL and/or when more than two follicles greater than or equal to 17 mm in diameter each were encountered on ultrasonography. Twenty-nine patients conceived (40.2%), and 23 delivered viable infants. Twenty-three of the 29 pregnancies were achieved in the 42 patients who ovulated on clomiphene, while only 6 pregnancies resulted in the 32 anovulatory patients on clomiphene. Six patients (20.6%) aborted in the first trimester. Multiple pregnancies consisted of only two sets of twins (6.9%). There were only two cases of mild hyperstimulation (2.7%) and no severe hyperstimulation. Because of the low occurrence of multiple pregnancies and hyperstimulation and the reasonable success rate, all PCOD patients should be started on this protocol. 
A randomized study of cisplatin versus cisplatin plus vindesine for non-small cell lung carcinoma. Between August 1983 and March 1985, a randomized study was conducted that compared cisplatin (CDDP) (80 mg/m2 on day 1) alone with CDDP plus vindesine (VDS) (3 mg/m2 on days 1, 8, and 15) in 160 consecutive patients with inoperable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). There were no complete responses. The response rate for CDDP plus VDS (22 of 77 patients, 29%) was significantly higher than that for CDDP alone (9 of 78 patients, 12%) (P less than 0.05). However, no difference existed in the median duration of response (20 weeks for CDDP plus VDS versus 20 weeks for CDDP alone) or the median survival time (45 weeks for CDDP plus VDS versus 39 weeks for CDDP alone). No significant differences in toxicity were detected between the two arms; myelosuppression, alopecia, and peripheral neuropathy occurred more frequently with CDDP plus VDS and there was one lethal episode of hepatorenal syndrome in the CDDP plus VDS arm. Among the variables Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS), age, sex, stage, weight loss, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, albumin level, histologic cell type, and chemotherapy arm, only chemotherapy arm was a significant factor leading to a major response (P = 0.019, multiple logistic regression analysis). The significant predictors of survival were PS (P = 0.000), sex (P = 0.000), and stage (P = 0.002) (Cox's proportional hazards model), with a PS of 0 or 1, female sex, and lower stage yielding the best survival. Although a significantly higher response rate was obtained in the combination arm than in the single agent arm, the survival benefit to patients receiving such combination chemotherapy was not determined and more effective chemotherapy regimens are required. 
Hyperreactivity of tubuloglomerular feedback in chronically salt-loaded spontaneous hypertensive rats. In order to investigate the mechanisms of the hyperreactivity of the tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) mechanism in spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR) the resetting of TGF by chronic dietary NaCl loading was studied in SHR and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). This treatment is known to reset the TGF by an inhibitory factor in tubular fluid and not by alterations of the intrinsic characteristics of the juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA). TGF reactivity, and its resetting, were determined by loop of Henle perfusion with artificial late proximal tubular fluid and with harvested endogenous tubular fluid respectively. Dietary effects of the high sodium intake were measured by means of the systolic blood pressure (SBP), plasma volume (PV), and renal sodium excretion. The 4-week dietary treatment had no significant influence on SBP in WKY, whereas it accelerated the rise of SBP in SHR significantly. After 1 week of treatment, PV was increased in both WKY and SHR as compared with the control groups kept on the normal diet. Whereas PV in WKY declined to control values over the next 3 weeks, SHR remained expanded. GFR was similar in all groups, whereas urinary sodium excretion was significantly increased in salt-loaded SHR and WKY. Dietary salt loading was paralleled by the appearance of a TGF-inhibiting substance in the tubular fluid in SHR and WKY. However, when assayed with artificial late proximal tubular fluid, hyperreactivity was similar in normal and salt-loaded SHR as compared with WKY. Thus, in SHR TGF hyperreactivity is maintained in spite of volume expansion and TGF resetting by a humoral factor in tubular fluid. 
Supraventricular tachycardia. Changes in management. The various forms of supraventricular tachycardia can be differentiated by careful review of a patient's electrocardiogram. If reentrant tachycardia involves the atrioventricular node, intravenous adenosine (Adenocard) provides a rapid means of converting the tachycardia to sinus rhythm. Adverse effects of adenosine, though common, are mild and of brief duration. Wide QRS complex tachycardia of ventricular origin is usually not affected by the drug. 
Three-port perineal sparing technique. The records were reviewed of 103 patients with low-lying pelvic malignancies irradiated with a skin-sparing technique involving use of a pair of anteroposterior-posteroanterior opposed ports and a direct perineal port. Patients had rectal, anal, cervical, vaginal, urethral, or vulvar cancer. Use of a special lead compensator allowed the three beams to be applied perpendicularly to the surface, while delivery of a homogeneous dose to the pelvis and perineum was maintained. Skin dose with this method was greatly reduced compared with that delivered with simple opposing or four-port techniques, in which irradiation is tangential to the surface at the perineum. Acute perineal skin irritation was assigned a grade between 0 and 3, with grade 0 representing the least amount of irritation. All patients were in the grade 0 or grade 1 category. Patients treated for low-lying rectal carcinoma showed no increase in perineal recurrences when compared with historic control subjects. Use of this approach allowed delivery of adequate doses to the pelvis and perineum and a definite decrease in local toxic effects, and local control was not compromised. 
Pancreatic lesions in the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. Common manifestations of the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, an autosomally dominant inherited cancer-prone disorder, include retinal angiomatosis, hemangioblastoma of the central nervous system, renal cysts, renal cancer, pheochromocytoma, and epididymal cystadenoma. Multiple cysts and microcystic (serous) cystadenomas of the pancreas have also been reported occasionally in patients afflicted with this syndrome. In the large Freiburg study of the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome composed of 66 affected individuals, pancreatic lesions were systematically studied. Fifty-five living individuals were examined by abdominal ultrasound imaging. Abnormal findings were confirmed by computed tomographic scan and/or magnetic resonance imaging. For an additional 11 decreased patients autopsy data were available. Cystic lesions of the pancreas were found in 10 patients (15%). One of these patients presented with multiple pancreatic cysts as the only manifestation of the syndrome. In one patient, a malignant islet-cell tumor was found at autopsy. Because multiple pancreatic cysts did not cause major clinical symptoms and because follow-up examinations over an average period of 5 years did not show significant progression of the lesions, it is concluded that these patients usually do not require surgical treatment. Abdominal ultrasound screening is recommended for patients at risk as a tool to identify potential von Hippel-Lindau syndrome gene carriers with pancreatic manifestations. In all patients with multiple pancreatic cysts, the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome should be included in the differential diagnosis. 
Cost-effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase inhibition for primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. To determine the cost-effectiveness of HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase inhibitors (such as lovastatin) for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, we used the Coronary Heart Disease Policy Model, a computer-stimulated model that estimates the risk factor-specific annual incidence of coronary heart disease and the risk of recurrent coronary events in persons with prevalent coronary heart disease. When used for secondary prevention, 20 mg/d of lovastatin was estimated to save lives and save costs in younger men with cholesterol levels above 250 mg/dL (6.47 mmol/L) and to have a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio regardless of the cholesterol level except in young women with cholesterol levels below 250 mg/dL (6.47 mmol/L). Doses of 40 mg/d of lovastatin had favorable incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in men with cholesterol levels above 250 mg/dL (6.47 mmol/L). By comparison, primary prevention had favorable cost-effectiveness ratios only in selected subgroups based on cholesterol levels and other established risk factors. We conclude that current national recommendations regarding medication for secondary prevention are not as aggressive as our projections would suggest, while recommendations regarding the use of medications for primary prevention should consider the cost of medication as well as the risk factor profile of the individual patient. 
Investigation of colonic prostaglandins in carcinogenesis in the rat colon. Large bowel carcinoma was induced in rats by injecting MNNG intrarectally, and changes in the large bowel mucosa prostaglandin (PG) with time were determined. The PGE2 levels of the colonic mucosa in a control group were 20.9 +/- 9.7 (pg/mg total protein) at 5 weeks, 25.5 +/- 9.7 at 10 weeks, 26.5 +/- 18.1 at 20 weeks, and 34.8 +/- 12.7 at 40 weeks. The PGE2 levels in the MNNG-treated group were 44.7 +/- 6.2 at 5 weeks, 43.1 +/- 14.9 at 10 weeks, 70.1 +/- 23.4 at 20 weeks, and 79.7 +/- 54.1 at 40 weeks. The intrinsic PGE2 levels of the noncancerous mucosa were thus significantly higher for the MNNG group than for the control group at all weeks. At 40 weeks, the PGE2 levels of cancer lesions were significantly high compared with those of the noncancerous area. In the cancerous lesions, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and PGF2 alpha decreased and TXB2 increased significantly at 40 weeks. The observations demonstrated that PGE2 was implicated as a promoter in the development and proliferation of carcinoma in MNNG-induced large bowel carcinogenesis in rats. 
Inverted papilloma of the urinary bladder with granular eosinophilic cells. An unusual neuroendocrine variant. We report the morphologic, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic characteristics observed in a case of an inverted papilloma that contained neuroendocrine cells resected from the urinary bladder of a 77-year-old woman. Additionally, we evaluated the incidence of neuroendocrine cells in eight cases of inverted papillomas of the urinary bladder obtained from the files of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, DC. To our knowledge, an in-depth study of neuroendocrine cells in this neoplasm and a comparison of the same with neuroendocrine cells observed in other conditions in the lower genitourinary tract have not been previously published, prompting this report. 
Streptococcus salivarius meningitis and colonic carcinoma. Streptococcus salivarius caused fulminant meningitis in an elderly patient. A gastrointestinal diagnostic workup revealed an asymptomatic colonic adenocarcinoma. This first reported instance of S salivarius sepsis associated with a colonic neoplasm is not unexpected, since the organism is bacteriologically similar to S bovis, the prime bacterial indicator of occult malignancy. Exact speciation of streptococcal strains is fraught with technical difficulties, and gastrointestinal investigation may be warranted in an expanded variety of streptococcal infections. 
Spinal cord protection during aortic occlusion: efficacy of intrathecal tetracaine. Spinal cord ischemia and resultant paraplegia are devastating sequelae in up to 40% of patients undergoing repair of thoracoabdominal aneurysms. We investigated the effect of intrathecal tetracaine on the neurological sequelae of spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion with aortic occlusion. Cocaine-derived anesthetics (lidocaine and its analogues) have been shown to decrease neuronal cell metabolism and also have specific neuronal membrane stabilizing effects. New Zealand white rabbits were anesthetized and spinal cord ischemia was then induced by infrarenal aortic occlusion. Animals were divided into six treatment groups. Tetracaine (groups 2 and 4) or normal saline solution (group 5) was administered intrathecally before aortic cross-clamping. Groups 1 and 3 functioned as controls. Group 6 animals received intravenous thiopental. Rabbits were classified as either neurologically normal or injured (paralyzed or paretic). Among controls, 25 minutes of aortic occlusion produced varied neurological sequelae (group 1, 3/6 injured, 50%) whereas 30 minutes resulted in more consistent injury (group 3, 5/6 injured, 83%). All rabbits that received intrathecal saline solution were paralyzed (group 5, 4/4 injured, 100%). Animals treated with intrathecal tetracaine and aortic occlusion of 30 minutes (group 4) showed significantly better preservation of neurological function (6/7 normal, 86%) than controls and saline-treated animals (groups 3 and 5). All animals treated with intrathecal tetracaine and aortic occlusion for 25 minutes (group 2) showed no signs of injury (5/5 normal, 100%), but this was not significant versus controls (group 1). Intravenous thiopental (group 6, 5/5 injured, 100%) had no beneficial effect. Intrathecal tetracaine significantly and dramatically abrogated the neurological injury secondary to spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion after aortic occlusion at 30 minutes in the rabbit model. 
Could recurrent cholangitis after Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy be explained by motor intestinal anomalies? A manometric study. The aim of this study was to describe the motor patterns found in two patients with recurrent cholangitis episodes after Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy. In one patient, cholangitis was due to a stenosis of the anastomosis between the limb and the left intrahepatic bile duct, while motility of the limb, duodenum, and distal jejunum was normal. In the second patient, no anatomical explanation was found for cholangitis attacks. However, although the duodenal motor activity was normal, the motility of the limb and of the jejunum below the jejunojejunal anastomosis was grossly abnormal: permanent minute rhythm, phase IIIs absent or rare and slowly propagated, all motor abnormalities that could promote bacterial overgrowth in the limb. This stresses the interest in performing motor studies of the Roux-limb when cholangitis remains unexplained after Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy. 
Human galanin: molecular cloning reveals a unique structure. Galanin, a novel neuropeptide/hypothalamic hormone originally identified and isolated by virtue of its carboxy-terminal amide group, has recently been shown to have a diverse range of biological activities, including potent effects on the secretion of insulin and growth hormone. The physiological role of galanin remains unclear, with different effects being observed when porcine and rat galanin have been used in various animal model systems and in human studies. Molecular cloning of cDNA encoding human galanin and galanin mRNA associated peptide (GMAP) from both pituitary and neuroblastoma sources has revealed a unique and unexpected structure. In contrast to porcine, bovine and rodent galanin, human galanin lacks a carboxy-terminal amide. By analogy to other neurohormones, the absence of carboxy-terminal amidation would be expected to have significant effects on functional properties such as affinity for different receptor subtypes and physiological half life, and may be responsible for the species specificity observed in the action of galanin. 
Tissue responses to degenerative changes in the temporomandibular joint: a review. The articular cartilage covering of the mandibular condyle and the articular eminence, as well as the tissue of the articular disc, may be affected by degenerative changes associated with osteoarthrosis. Degenerative changes of cartilage alter its physical properties and, as a result, affect its ability to withstand compressive and shearing stresses. Increased friction between the articular surfaces may impair joint movement and may elicit compensatory or pathologic responses of the cartilage and the adjacent tissues, such as capsule and ligaments, synovial membrane, subchondral bone, and associated musculature. In this review, these structural changes are described and related to common signs and symptoms of craniomandibular dysfunction, such as clicking, locking and instability, pain and tenderness, restricted ranges of mandibular motion, crepitation, deformity, muscle wasting, and changes of occlusion. 
Diagnosis and monitoring of subarachnoid hemorrhage by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography. Thirty-six patients with acute spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (26 caused by rupture of an aneurysm) were examined by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography by using a 2.25-MHz ultrasound transducer. In 20 of these 26 patients (76%), the aneurysm could be identified by a characteristic abnormal blood flow pattern within the aneurysm in coronal and axial scanning planes by transcranial color-coded real-time sonography. Blood within the basal cisterns, on top of the tentorium, and within the ventricles and parenchyma was sonographically detected by increased echodensity in 75%. In addition, cerebrospinal fluid circulation disturbances and cerebral vasospasm were detected in two-dimensional B-mode images in 85% and 100%, respectively. In Doppler mode, intravascular blood flow velocity could be quantified. We conclude that transcranial color-coded real-time sonography, a new, noninvasive method for diagnosis and follow-up of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, allows detection of the primary vascular lesion and monitoring of complications. 
The natural history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. Highly uncommon or highly unrecognized? Among 2000 descendants of an English immigrant to Tasmania, Australia, the diagnosis of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 was found to be very highly probable or highly probable in 130 and moderately probable in 22. Another 242 children and siblings were 50% likely to have inherited this dominant gene. In all age groups, especially the elderly, the majority of affected members had symptoms of only one endocrine disorder or were asymptomatic. In teenagers, the most common presentation was pituitary lesions and the second most common presentation was insulinomas. Frequently, pituitary lesions or insulinomas developed before any parathyroid lesions could be detected. Elevation of gastrin levels, usually associated with hypercalcemia, was rarely seen in patients younger than 25 years. The classic presentation with symptoms of multiple endocrinopathy may represent only a small fraction of these patients in the community. 
Exacerbation of psoriasis after megavoltage irradiation. The Koebner phenomenon. This is a case report of a patient with a known history of psoriasis who experienced an exacerbation after palliative treatment with high-energy irradiation. A discussion of the radiobiology is presented. 
Right ventricular pacing and left ventricular filling pattern. An echo-Doppler study. The influence of right ventricular pacing on left ventricular filling has not been completely clarified. The aim of the study was to analyze the possible alteration in and effects on left ventricular filling resulting from right ventricular pacing. The study population consisted of two groups; group A was comprised of 12 patients with a spontaneous left bundle branch block, and group B had 12 patients without left bundle branch block. All the patients underwent an interrogation of the mitral valve inflow by Doppler echocardiography, in order to measure isovolumic relaxation time, early and late peak velocity (E and A wave), E/A ratio and deceleration time. The study was performed at spontaneous rhythm and after, inhibition of the pacemaker. In group A, there were no changes in the Doppler parameters when passing from a spontaneous to an 80/min electrically induced rhythm. Analysis of group B revealed a statistically significant lengthening of IVR and Dec t with electrical stimulation. No statistically significant differences were found when we compared the Doppler parameters of the two populations at the same pacing frequency. Right ventricular pacing causes interventricular asynchrony and abnormalities in diastolic filling times, which resulted in a lengthening of either IVR and Dec t, simulating a pattern of abnormal relaxation. 
Malignant colorectal strictures in Crohn's disease. One hundred thirty-two of 980 patients (13.5%) with Crohn's disease (CD) involving the colon, admitted to The Mount Sinai Hospital between 1959 and 1985, developed 175 colonic strictures. Thirty-three patients developed more than one stricture. The frequency was twice as great in colitis (19%) as in ileocolitis (11%). Ten malignant strictures were identified in nine patients (three ileocolitis, six colitis). One of these patients had three strictures (two malignant, and one benign), and two had two strictures (one malignant and one benign). The frequency of cancer in patients with stricture (6.8%) was higher than in those without stricture (0.7%, six of 848, p less than 0.001). There were no differences in clinical symptoms between patients with benign and malignant stricture. Seventeen of 165 benign strictures (10.3%) were long, extending over more than one anatomical segment of colon, but all 10 malignant strictures were short (p less than 0.0001). The age at the diagnosis of stricture was higher in the nine patients with malignant stricture than in the 123 patients with benign stricture (mean age 57.2 vs. 41.4 yr, respectively, p less than 0.01). The proportion of strictures that were malignant increased with duration of disease from 3.3% with less than 20 yr of CD, to 11% with CD of 20 yr or more. All nine patients with malignant stricture were treated surgically, and four of the nine died of colon cancer during a mean follow-up of 4.3 yr. Prognosis was worse in six other nonstricture cancers in this series, with five colon cancer deaths during mean follow-up of 1.6 yr. In view of the high rate of malignancy, 6.8% in this series, colonoscopy with biopsy is essential in Crohn's disease patients with colonic strictures, and surgery must be considered when a stricture cannot be fully assessed during colonoscopy. 
Drainage of a pancreatic pseudocyst: an unusual complication. A 34-year-old white woman had external drainage of a pancreatic pseudocyst. During sinography, contrast medium filled perigastric varices, causing septic shock. From this experience, we believe that although sinograms are helpful, they should be preceded by prophylactic administration of antibiotics and that contrast material should be sterile. The drainage catheter should be removed as soon as possible. 
Kistrin, a polypeptide platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonist, enhances and sustains coronary arterial thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in a canine preparation BACKGROUND. Kistrin is a 68-amino acid polypeptide from the venom of the Malayan pit viper Agkistrodon rhodostoma, which inhibits the platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor. Its effect on thrombolysis, reocclusion, and bleeding associated with administration of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was studied in a canine model of coronary artery thrombosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Coronary patency was monitored for 2 hours by ultrasonic flow probe and repeated coronary angiography. The rt-PA was given as 0.45-mg/kg bolus injections at 15-minute intervals until recanalization or to a maximum of four boluses. Four groups of four or five dogs were studied: a control group that received intravenous heparin (4,000-unit bolus and 1,000 units each hour) and three groups that received heparin and 0.48, 0.24, or 0.12 mg/kg kistrin, administered as a 10% bolus injection and an infusion during a 60-minute period. In the control group, reflow occurred in four of five dogs within 37 +/- 47 minutes but was followed by cyclic reflow and reocclusion. Kistrin at a dose of 0.48 and 0.24 mg/kg reduced the time to reflow to 6 +/- 5 and 10 +/- 3 minutes, respectively, and abolished reocclusion. With 0.12 mg/kg kistrin, reflow occurred in all four animals, within 27 +/- 23 minutes, and reocclusion occurred in two animals. Kistrin induced a dose-related prolongation of the template bleeding time: with 0.48 mg/kg kistrin, the bleeding time was prolonged from 3.8 +/- 1.3 minutes before infusion to 29 +/- 2 minutes during infusion, but it was shortened to 8.3 +/- 2.6 minutes at 90 minutes after the end of infusion. Kistrin also caused a dose-related inhibition of platelet aggregation with ADP and collagen: with 0.48 mg/kg kistrin, platelet aggregation was abolished during the infusion but had partially recovered toward the end of the observation period. Pathological examination of recanalized coronary arterial segments of dogs given 0.48 or 0.24 mg/kg kistrin revealed widely patent arteries with some platelets layered on the damaged intimal surface. CONCLUSIONS. Kistrin increases the rate and extent of thrombolysis with a reduced dose of rt-PA, and it prevents reocclusion. At an effective dose, it is associated with a transient prolongation of the bleeding time and inhibition of platelet aggregation. Kistrin may offer promise as adjunctive treatment to thrombolytic agents in patients with acute myocardial infarction. 
Immunohistochemical analysis of Ewing's sarcoma cell surface antigen p30/32MIC2. Monoclonal antibody (MAb) HBA71, which was raised against Ewing's sarcoma cells, recognizes a cell-surface glycoprotein, p30/32MIC2, that is encoded by the MIC2 gene in the pseudoautosomal region of human chromosomes X and Y. This immunohistochemical study evaluates the specificity and sensitivity of MAb HBA71 for tumor diagnosis. Frozen and paraffin-embedded tissues of more than 300 tumors of diverse histologic type, including more than 100 small round cell tumors of childhood and adolescence, were tested with this MAb by the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase procedure. The authors found HBA71 immunoreactivity in 61 of 63 Ewing's sarcomas studied and 9 of 11 primitive neuroectodermal tumors and peripheral neuroepitheliomas. HBA71-negative tumors included neuroblastomas (0 of 24), melanomas (0 of 13), an esthesioneuroblastoma, small cell osteosarcomas (0 of 2), a malignant ectomesenchymoma, desmoplastic SRCT (0 of 5), and medulloblastomas (0 of 5). Heterogeneous expression of HBA71 immunostaining was found in some embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas (3 of 14) and astrocytomas (4 of 7), and in a few neuroendocrine tumors (4 of 26), carcinomas (3 of 94), and lymphomas (6 of 30). Because Ewing's sarcomas are consistently HBA71 positive, the authors searched for antigen-positive normal cells that may represent precursors for these tumors; however, no obvious candidate for the elusive cell of origin for Ewing's sarcoma was identified in the normal fetal tissues tested. Their findings indicate that HBA71 is a highly restricted cell-surface antigen of Ewing's sarcomas and primitive neuroectodermal tumors, and immunohistochemistry employing this antibody may be of value in the differential diagnosis of selected small round cell tumors in childhood and adolescence. 
The significance of critical care errors in causing preventable death in trauma patients in a trauma system. The regionalization of trauma care has led to a decrease in preventable death after injury. This decrease has been attributed to earlier resuscitation and surgical intervention. Little emphasis, however, has focused on the critical care phase of trauma patient management. This study was undertaken to determine the significance of critical care errors (CCEs) on preventable mortality and morbidity in a regionalized system of trauma care. The records of 12,910 trauma patients admitted to six trauma centers over a three-year period were reviewed. The cause and preventability of death was determined by a panel of trauma experts. Critical care errors occurred in 151 (23%) of all patients with errors occurring during any phase of care. The CCEs were identified in 38 of 125 (30%) deaths of patients with errors in some phase of care. The CCEs were implicated as the cause of death in 30 (48%) of the 62 preventable deaths. The proportion of preventable deaths attributable to CCEs was higher than the proportion of preventable death attributable to errors in the resuscitative and operative phases of care (p less than 0.001, chi-square). These data indicate that CCEs significantly contribute to preventable mortality and morbidity in trauma patients. It is imperative that physicians caring for trauma patients possess expertise in the critical care management of injured patients. 
Stump pressure, the contralateral carotid artery, and electroencephalographic changes. Electroencephalographic (EEG) monitoring and measurement of stump pressure are the most widely employed methods of assessing the risk of cerebral ischemia during carotid endarterectomy. The status of the contralateral carotid artery has also been thought to influence the need for placing a shunt. The relationship of EEG monitoring, stump pressure, and the contralateral carotid artery has not been completely delineated. We retrospectively reviewed these three variables in 113 patients undergoing 124 carotid endarterectomies. The contralateral artery was classified as occluded, stenotic (greater than 50% decrease in diameter), or nonstenotic. There was a 48% incidence of EEG changes with contralateral occlusion, 18% with stenosis, and 21% with nonstenotic arteries (p = 0.014). There was a 73% incidence of EEG changes when the stump pressure was less than 25 mm Hg, 32% when the stump pressure was 25 to 50 mm Hg, and 2% when the stump pressure was greater than 50 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). There was no significant difference in the mean stump pressure for patients with occlusion (43.8 mm Hg), stenosis (44.7 mm Hg), or nonstenotic contralateral arteries (51.3 mm Hg). All patients with contralateral occlusion and a stump pressure less than 25 mm Hg had EEG changes. No patient with a stump pressure greater than 50 mm Hg and a patent contralateral artery had EEG changes. Although the incidence of EEG changes in the majority of patients was not accurately predicted by the stump pressure and the status of the contralateral carotid artery, stump pressure less than or equal to 50 mm Hg was sensitive, identifying 97% of patients with EEG changes. 
Left atrial ball thrombus: review of clinical and echocardiographic manifestations with suggestions for management. Left atrial ball thrombus is an infrequent clinical syndrome, which can have a catastrophic outcome but can be readily treated when recognized. It is usually a complication of long-standing rheumatic mitral stenosis. Symptomatic presentation is variable: fragmentation of the thrombus followed by peripheral embolization will produce ischemia or infarction of myocardium, brain, viscera, or extremities; random, intermittent, partial, or total occlusion of the mitral valve orifice may cause syncope, pulmonary congestion, and occasionally sudden death in other patients. Embolic and obstructive phenomena may also occur together. Cardiac physical findings usually suggest mitral stenosis; variability in the intensity of the diastolic rumble is common. Two-dimensional echocardiography is the gold standard for identifying ball thrombus. Cardiac catheterization provides assessment of coronary artery status when needed. The outcome of untreated ball thrombus is unlikely to be favorable. The results of anticoagulation and thrombolysis are unpredictable and potentially as harmful as no treatment at all. Current evidence although scant suggests that prompt surgical removal of the free thrombus, often in conjunction with mitral valve repair or replacement, is the appropriate therapeutic course in most patients. 
Sudden asphyxial death due to a prolapsed esophageal fibrolipoma. Fibrolipomas of the esophagus are extremely uncommon benign tumors. Accurate diagnosis and resection are essential, due to their tendency to become impacted and obstruct the airway. The case is presented of a 56-year-old man who died suddenly of asphyxia because of upper airway obstruction by a prolapsed fibrolipoma of the esophagus. 
Left and right ventricular systolic function and exercise capacity with coronary artery disease. This prospective study of symptom-limited supine ergometry was conducted to determine the contributions of right ventricular (RV) and left ventricular (LV) systolic function to the exercise capacity of a cohort of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Patients with unstable angina, angiographically proven CAD (n = 53) and stable symptoms after medical therapy or angioplasty were included. Documented myocardial infarction (greater than or equal to 2 weeks before exercise) was present in 43 of 53 patients. Angina was the limiting symptom in 11 of 53; the other 42 stopped exercise with dyspnea or fatigue, or both. Oxygen consumption was measured on-line during exercise with a metabolic cart. RV ejection fraction and LV ejection fraction were measured by validated methods from gated blood pool radionuclide ventriculography. There were weak but statistically significant correlations between exercise oxygen consumption and exercise RV ejection fraction (r = 0.30, p less than 0.05) and between exercise oxygen consumption and exercise LV ejection fraction (r = 0.38, p less than 0.01). Multivariate regression analysis, including exercise RV ejection fraction, exercise LV ejection fraction and exercise heart rate versus exercise oxygen consumption revealed a better relation (r = 0.48, p less than 0.005) than any variable in univariate regression. The values of RV and LV ejection fraction at rest did not correlate significantly (r = 0.2, difference not significant), but the exercise values did correlate weakly (r = 0.41, p less than 0.01). The reserve of LV ejection fraction, defined as exercise minus rest value, correlated weakly with exercise oxygen consumption (r = 0.32, p less than 0.05). 
Resection of the inferior vena cava or intraluminal vena caval tumor thrombectomy during retroperitoneal lymph node dissection for metastatic germ cell cancer: indications and results. A total of 42 patients underwent inferior vena caval resection (40) or intraluminal tumor thrombectomy (2) during retroperitoneal lymph node dissection for bulky abdominal metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell cancer (7% of all post-chemotherapy retroperitoneal lymph node dissection cases). The 3 indications for vena caval resection included tumor clearance (38%), vena caval scar occlusion (14%) and vena caval tumor thrombus (48%). En bloc vena caval resection to achieve tumor clearance was justified by subsequent nodal pathology (cancer in 63% of the specimens and teratoma in 31%). Vena caval resection in the presence of scar occlusion was de facto required by virtue of its incorporation in the specimen. Vena caval resection or thrombectomy is indicated for intraluminal tumor thrombus because thrombus pathology (cancer 35%, teratoma 45% and fibrosis 20%) reflected nodal pathology in 71% of the patients with cancer, 78% with teratoma and 100% with fibrosis. The complications of vena caval resection were generally transitory. The 71% survival rate justifies this intensive surgical approach because these patients had exhausted all chemotherapy options. 
Transplant aspiration cytology: applications to kidney and liver transplantations. In summary, cytologic monitoring of renal and liver transplants is a well established diagnostic procedure. The prime value of the FNAB relates to the posttransplantation perioperative period: the acute alterations in the transplant, such as acute rejection and the differential diagnoses, can be established in most cases. However, evaluation of vascular patterns of rejection, in particular chronic rejection, is impossible to obtain from the FNAB. A needle core biopsy is needed. 
Influence of the site of tumor growth on the capacity of a low tumorigenic line of Friend erythroleukemia cells to differentiate. Friend erythroleukemia cells (FLC) passaged in mice are highly tumorigenic and multiply extensively in the livers of suckling DBA/2 mice without differentiating. In contrast, in vitro passaged FLCs injected intravenously were of low tumorigenicity, multiplied to a limited extent in the livers of suckling mice, and underwent marked differentiation from the proerythroblast to the orthochromatic erythroblast stage in the liver. The presence of characteristic C-type virions budding from the cell surface in various stages of erythroid differentiation served as a marker of the injected FLCs. When the same in vitro passaged FLCs that differentiated in the liver were injected subcutaneously in suckling mice, they formed large subcutaneous tumors consisting of sheets of undifferentiated tumor cells. It is concluded that the tumorigenicity of FLCs depended on the site of tumor growth and that there is an inverse correlation between the tumorigenic capacity and the capacity to differentiate. 
Airway pressure release ventilation in severe acute respiratory failure Airway pressure release ventilation (APRV), a new ventilatory support technique, was compared with conventional intermittent positive-pressure ventilation plus PEEP (CPPV) in 18 patients with severe acute respiratory failure. Patients were initially stabilized on CPPV and then switched to APRV. The APRV provided effective ventilatory support in 17 of 18 patients; APRV achieved similar levels of alveolar ventilation as CPPV (for APRV, mean PaCO2 = 45.0 +/- 6.2 mm Hg; vs for CPPV, mean PaCO2 = 43.3 +/- 5.7 mm Hg), with significantly lower mean maximum airway pressures (38.9 +/- 10.1 cm H2O vs 64.6 +/- 15.4 cm H2O; p = 0.0001) and mean VT (0.79 +/- 0.11 L vs 1.05 +/- 0.15 L; p = 0.0002). No significant differences in mean airway pressure, end-expiratory pressure, FIO2, ventilator rate, arterial blood gas levels, and hemodynamic function were noted between APRV and CPPV. 
Left-sided pleural effusion secondary to splenic vein thrombosis. A previously unrecognized relationship. The association of left-sided pleural effusion and subcapsular splenic hematoma was reported in 1980. We describe a patient in whom a left-sided pleural effusion resulted from splenic vein thrombosis, a relationship not previously reported. Splenectomy was performed, demonstrating the spleen to be enlarged and hemorrhagic. The pleural effusion did not recur after splenectomy. The three effusions due to splenic hematomas reported previously cleared only after splenectomy, suggesting splenectomy may be necessary to prevent reaccumulation. We propose possible pathophysiologic mechanisms and recommend that splenic vein thrombosis be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained left-sided pleural effusions. 
Hypocalciuria of preeclampsia is independent of parathyroid hormone level. Hypocalciuria is a feature of preeclampsia. The roles of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and vitamin D 1,25(OH)2D3 (calcitriol) in its pathogenesis have not yet been determined. Fourteen preeclamptic women were compared with 12 women with chronic hypertension and 11 normotensives, all in the third trimester. Preeclamptics had the lowest urinary calcium excretion rate (62.1 +/- 32.8 mg/24 hours) compared with chronic hypertensive women (162.6 +/- 97.8 mg/24 hours) and normotensive controls (225.6 = 146.9 mg/24 hours) (P less than .05). Serum PTH was lowest in preeclamptics (9.8 +/- 5.5 pg/mL), in contrast to the chronic hypertensives (18.5 +/- 2.7 pg/mL) and normotensives (16.4 +/- 3.2 pg/mL) (P less than .005). Similarly, urinary cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) excretion was 2.9 +/- 1.4 mumol/24 hours in the preeclamptics, 5.1 +/- 1.7 mumol/24 hours in the chronic hypertensives, and 4.6 +/- 1.3 mumol/24 hours in the normotensive group (P less than .05). These data suggest that the mechanism of hypocalciuria in preeclampsia is independent of the PTH-calcitriol axis. Therefore, it is suggested that the hypocalciuria of preeclampsia is due to intrinsic renal tubular dysfunction. 
Development of sustained achlorhydria in a patient with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated with omeprazole. Spontaneous remission of gastric acid hypersecretion in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome occurs rarely. This study shows the development of gastric secretory mucosal atrophy resulting in achlorhydria and loss of pepsin secretion in a 63-year-old woman with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Reduced secretion began soon after starting treatment with omeprazole, and achlorhydria became complete 6 months later. The patient remains well with normal endoscopy results and is achlorhydric 4 years after the start of treatment and 34 months after stopping omeprazole. She was not colonized with Helicobacter pylori until 36 months after developing achlorhydria. Serum gastrin has increased from 1000 to between 5000 and 12,500 ng/L (pg/mL), was not suppressible by gastric acidification, and was not associated with G-cell hyperplasia. She also has a normal Schilling test and normal immunoglobulins, and lacks antibodies to parietal cells or H+, K(+)-ATPase. Moderate enterochromaffinlike cell hyperplasia is apparent for the first time on the latest biopsy sample. 
Acetylcholine receptor-reactive T lymphocytes from healthy subjects and myasthenia gravis patients. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from 23 of 114 (20%) myasthenia gravis (MG) patients showed positive T-cell proliferative responses to native acetylcholine receptor (AChR) purified from the electric fish Torpedo, compared with two of 25 (8%) healthy or other neurologic disease controls. Responsiveness appeared to fluctuate seasonally. Long-term T-cell lines and clones could be selected as readily from the two healthy responders as from the MG cases and showed similar culture behavior, CD4+ phenotype, and HLA class II restrictions. One clone from a control cross-reacted with recombinant human AChR alpha chain (r37-429A) and with the synthetic peptide 125-143(S-S) from its sequence. Both these human antigens stimulated primary proliferative responses at substantially higher frequencies (26 to 59%) than native xeno-AChR--in both patients and controls--demonstrating that truly autoreactive T cells are not inevitably deleted during normal T-cell development. 
Evaluation of pulmonary venous flow by transesophageal echocardiography in subjects with a normal heart: comparison with transthoracic echocardiography Nineteen normal subjects and five patients with atrial fibrillation underwent transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiographic studies to evaluate the normal pulmonary venous flow pattern, compare right and left pulmonary venous flow and assess the effect of sample volume location on pulmonary venous flow velocities. Best quality tracings were obtained by transesophageal echocardiography. Anterograde flow during systole and diastole was observed in all patients by both techniques. Reversed flow during atrial contraction was observed with transesophageal echocardiography in 18 of the 19 subjects in normal sinus rhythm, but in only 7 subjects with transthoracic echocardiography. Two forward peaks during ventricular systole were clearly identified in 14 subjects (73%) with transesophageal echocardiography, but in none with the transthoracic technique. The early systolic wave immediately followed the reversed flow during atrial contraction and was strongly related to the timing of atrial contraction (r = 0.78; p less than 0.001), but not to the timing of ventricular contraction, and appeared to be secondary to atrial relaxation. Conversely, the late systolic wave was temporally related to ventricular ejection (r = 0.66; p less than 0.001), peaking 100 ms before the end of the aortic valve closure and was unrelated to atrial contraction time. Quantitatively, significantly higher peak systolic flow velocities were obtained in the left upper pulmonary vein compared with the right upper pulmonary vein (60 +/- 17 vs. 52 +/- 15 cm/s; p less than 0.05) and by transesophageal echocardiography compared with transthoracic studies (60 +/- 17 vs. 50 +/- 14 cm/s; p less than 0.05). Increasing depth of interrogation beyond 1 cm from the vein orifice resulted in a significant decrease in the number of interpretable tracings. 
Delayed presentation and treatment of popliteal artery embolism. In the course of reviewing a 10-year experience with popliteal artery embolism (PAE), two distinct patterns of clinical presentation were identified. In addition to those patients presenting with typical acute (symptom duration less than 7 days) arterial ischemia, a second group was identified who presented with more chronic symptoms. The present study was conducted to contrast the clinical factors and treatment of these two temporal patterns of presentation with PAE. Sixty PAEs in 58 patients were documented by the combination of angiography and/or exploration of the popliteal artery. Acute presentation (AP) was seen in 41 (68%) of these and delayed presentation (DP) was noted in 19 (32%) patients. Delayed presentation patients typically presented with a history of sudden onset of claudication or rest pain and a median symptom duration of 30 days. Eighty per cent of AP patients presented with immediately threatened limbs. Angiography was generally diagnostic of chronic popliteal embolism. In the acute group, 90% were treated with embolectomy alone, while 20% of the DP group required bypass grafting. However in two thirds of the DP group, embolectomy alone performed through a direct popliteal approach was possible. Current results with overall limb salvage (92%) and mortality (7%) represents a substantial improvement compared to the authors' previous experience with PAE. The current study suggests that as many as one third of patients with popliteal artery embolism may present in delayed fashion with chronic symptoms. Furthermore most of these patients can be treated with direct popliteal embolectomy alone with favorable results. 
Local cardiac responses--alternative methods of control. Much attention has been paid to the influence of the beta-adrenoceptor system on cardiac function in heart failure. Full agonists and partial agonists acting on cardiac beta 1 receptors have been widely investigated, as has the density of these receptors in the failing heart. However, other cardiac control mechanisms may play important roles in the normal heart as well as in heart failure. The Frank-Starling mechanism of enhanced cardiac contraction produced by mechanical stretching of the ventricular myofibrils is well known. When treating patients with heart failure with diuretics, vasodilators and other drugs that influence preload, it is important to consider their overall effects in relation to the Starling curves. Atrial stretching also produces compensatory responses which are currently being intensively studied. Reflex release of atrial natriuretic factor after stimulation of atrial receptors has important physiologic effects in heart failure. The atria, but not the ventricles, are innervated by the vagus; the influence of the parasympathetic nervous system on the heart and circulation is often overlooked. The initial increase in heart rate during exercise is primarily due to withdrawal of vagal influence. Besides acetylcholine, the parasympathetic transmitter, many other local hormones may affect cardiac function; these include prostaglandins, 5-hydroxytryptamine and histamine. Although the activity of the sympathetic nervous system is mediated primarily through beta 1 adrenoceptors, both beta 2 and alpha receptors are also found in the heart. Myocardial alpha 1 receptors, which mediate a positive inotropic effect, have been identified, and prejunctional alpha 2 receptors may mediate inhibition of norepinephrine release from sympathetic nerves. 
Quantitative bone and 67Ga scintigraphy in the differentiation of necrotizing external otitis from severe external otitis. Qualitative technetium Tc 99m bone scintigraphy using phosphate compounds and gallium 67 scintigraphy were described as a helpful means in diagnosing necrotizing external otitis (NEO). They were, however, claimed to be nonspecific. Quantitative Tc 99m methylene diphosphonate bone scintigraphy and gallium 67 scintigraphy were performed in eight patients with NEO and in 20 patients with severe external otitis, in order to prove usefulness of scintigraphy in the diagnosis of NEO. Ratios of lesion to nonlesion for bone scintigraphy were 1.67 +/- 0.16 in patients with NEO and 1.08 +/- 0.09 in patients with severe external otitis, and for gallium 67 scintigraphy they were 1.35 +/- 0.24 in NEO patients and 1.05 +/- 0.03 in patients with severe external otitis. There was no difference in uptake between diabetic patients with severe external otitis and nondiabetic patients. The scintigraphic studies were also evaluated using a qualitative scoring method (scores 0 to +4), according to the intensity of the radiopharmaceutical uptake. This method was found to be inferior in the diagnosis of NEO compared with the quantitative method. We conclude that lesion-to-nonlesion ratios greater than 1.5 and 1.3 on bone and gallium 67 scintigraphy, respectively, are indicative of NEO. Quantitative bone scintigraphy, which is quicker to perform, may be used as a single imaging modality for the diagnosis of NEO. 
Primary angiosarcoma of the seminal vesicle. We report on an unusual case of primary angiosarcoma of the seminal vesicle. Diagnosis was confirmed by light and electron microscopy, as well as specific immunohistochemical staining. This rare tumor is highly aggressive, and refractory to traditional surgical and adjuvant therapeutic modalities. Sarcomatous lesions of the seminal vesicle are reviewed. 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type I screening in volunteer blood donors--United States, 1989. On November 29, 19898, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued recommendations to screen all whole blood donations in the United States for human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-1). This report summarizes results of the first 13 months of screening (December 1988 through December 1989) by the American Red Cross (ARC) and the Council of Community Blood Centers (CCBC). 
Duodenal ulcer and Sjogren's syndrome in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis: a casual association? Peptic ulcer has been reported in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), but its frequency and pathogenesis are still poorly defined. We have analyzed the occurrence of duodenal ulcer in 37 female patients affected by PBC and in 35 with chronic liver disease of various etiologies. An active ulcer was found in seven patients with PBC and in one with chronic autoimmune hepatitis. The presence of an exocrine gland defect, as indicated by clinical signs of Sjogren's syndrome (SS), was found in six patients with PBC and duodenal ulcer (85%), but in only eight (26.6%) of those without ulcer (p less than 0.02). Therefore, in our patients, duodenal ulcer occurs more often in PBC than in other types of chronic liver disease. The association of SS with PBC, significantly higher in patients with than without ulcer, supports the hypothesis that the underlying exocrine gland defect is involved in the development of duodenal ulcer. 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. As clinical experience with patients with ZES has grown, increasing recognition has been made of the broad spectrum of symptoms associated with gastrinomas. Diarrhea and acid-induced esophageal injury have taken their place alongside chronic peptic ulcer disease as indications for screening for gastrinoma. Diagnostic testing should begin with fasting serum gastrin levels and should include intravenous secretin infusion if fasting serum levels of gastrin are nondiagnostic and the patient is not found to be hypochlorhydric. Tumor localization is critical to aid in the identification of patients with potentially curable localized disease. Preoperative evaluation utilizing CT scanning with intravenous contrast should be done early and should be supplemented by other imaging modalities as necessary. Exploratory laparotomy, including a thorough examination of the duodenum and perhaps intraoperative ultrasound, should be performed in all patients with sporadic gastrinoma who lack evidence of extensive metastatic disease on preoperative evaluation. By utilizing this approach, it is likely that at least 20% of patients with ZES can be cured. With the availability of the highly effective H(+)-K(+)-ATPase inhibitor omeprazole, excellent control of symptoms related to gastric acid hypersecretion can be expected. Patients with unresectable gastrinoma may thus avoid potentially morbid antisecretory surgery and be managed with a fairly simple medical regimen. Further developments in the chemotherapeutic management of these patients with unresectable disease should be forthcoming in the future. 
Left anterior fascicular block: an ischaemic response during treadmill testing. A patient in whom exercise induced reversible ischaemic left anterior fascicular block is reported. Glyceryl trinitrate relieved the fascicular block. Coronary angiography showed a 90% obstruction of the left anterior descending artery. The left anterior fascicular block induced by exercise disappeared after a successful coronary angioplasty. 
Cytomegalovirus appendicitis in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. We report a homosexual patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and histopathologic evidence for cytomegalovirus (CMV) appendicitis in a patient with no prior history of CMV infection. The patient presented with right lower quadrant pain and intermittent fevers. The diagnosis of appendicitis was difficult to make in this patient because of the presumptive diagnosis of tuberculosis ileitis and the frequent presentation of abdominal pain with fever in AIDS patients. Although CMV colitis is frequently seen in AIDS patients, the prevalence of CMV appendicitis is exceedingly rare. The problems related to making a diagnosis of CMV appendicitis and the therapeutic management of CMV infections are reviewed. 
Ten years after cryosurgical treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. From 1974 to 1977 we treated 96 patients for grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia with cryotherapy. They were monitored for 10 to 14 years with an attendance rate of 98%. Treatment resulted in cure in 92%. Nine patients had persisting lesions, and three patients had a recurrent lesion. The last recurrence was diagnosed 6.7 years after cryotherapy. 
Use of fluorescent in situ hybridization for marker chromosome identification in congenital and neoplastic disorders. Identifying marker chromosomes of unknown origin in the clinical cytogenetics laboratory has been a problem historically, despite advances in specialized staining techniques. Determination of the origin of these marker chromosomes in patients with congenital or malignant neoplastic disorders is essential for more complete diagnosis, counseling, and treatment. The authors describe the use of fluorescent in situ hybridization with chromosome-specific alpha-satellite DNA probes to identify the origin of marker chromosomes in two patients with congenital disorders and three patients with malignant neoplastic disorders. The impact of firm identification of the marker chromosome for the diagnosis of these patients is discussed. The authors also discuss the feasibility of using this technique routinely in the clinical cytogenetics laboratory. 
Milrinone, a bridge to heart transplantation. We describe the use of a milrinone infusion as a bridge to heart transplantation in the treatment of severe congestive cardiac failure secondary to viral cardiomyopathy. The clinical improvement that occurred when milrinone was commenced made it possible to wean the patient from conventional cardiovascular support with an intra-aortic balloon pump and dobutamine. There was an improvement in organ perfusion. 
In situ evidence for HPV 16, 18, 33 integration in cervical squamous cell cancer in Britain and South Africa. In a previous study three types of HPV signal were described in CIN. It was suggested that a type 1 signal represented episomal HPV while a type 2 signal represented integrated HPV; and a type 3 signal was indicative of both episomal and integrated HPV. To test this hypothesis 91 squamous cell cancers (SCC) of the cervix from Britain and South Africa were examined for HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 35. Of the South African group (n = 69) 64% contained HPV types 16 (n = 29) and 18 (n = 15). The SCC in the British group (n = 22) contained HPV 16 and HPV 33 in 12 and three cases, respectively. Of the HPV positive biopsy specimens, 86% showed a type 2 signal in keratinising and non-keratinising tumours and the remainder a type 3 signal. Type 3 signal was present only in keratinising tumours. The presence of punctate signal in 100% of HPV containing SCC, together with localisation of HPV signal to sister chromatids in tumour cell mitotic figures in vivo, provides further evidence for type 2, and the punctate component of type 3 signal representing viral integration. 
Changes in the serum levels of CK-MB, LDH, LDH1, SGOT and myoglobin due to cardiac surgery. Elevation of serum levels of enzymes due to myocardial necrosis is considered to be a specific finding for myocardial infarction. This study was designed to determine the changes in the levels of LDH, SGOT enzymes, LDH1, CK-MB isoenzymes and myoglobin in patients who have had coronary bypass grafting and who have had atriotomy for surgical correction without any evidence of myocardial infarction diagnosed by clinical, hemodynamic and electrocardiographic findings. It was found that CK-MB, LDH, LDH1 and myoglobin showed significant elevations which mimicked a perioperative myocardial infarction. SGOT also increased, but remained within the normal range. CK-MB, LDH and LDH1 increased more in the coronary bypass grafted patients whereas myoglobin increased in the patients who had atriotomies. It was concluded that in order to demonstrate a perioperative myocardial infarction it is necessary to determine at least two of these enzymes for a long period and to correlate these results with the clinical, hemodynamic and electrocardiographic findings. 
Unusual presentations of duodenal tuberculosis. Gastrointestinal tuberculosis is still rampant in underdeveloped countries and can mimic other gastrointestinal (GI) disorders. Herein we report four cases of isolated proximal duodenal tuberculosis, without involvement of other parts of the GI tract. The clinical presentation in three of them resembled that of peptic ulcer disease, and one had features of gastric outlet obstruction. On investigation, one of these patients had a pyeloduodenal fistula. The limitations of clinical evaluation, radiology, and endoscopy are stressed, and the value of surgical biopsy is highlighted. 
Antegrade approach to radical retropubic prostatectomy in patients with difficult apical dissection. Among 335 radical retropubic prostatectomies an antegrade dissection was used in 30 because of difficulty in developing the usual planes of dissection during apical dissection. The adequacy of tumor resection, preservation of sexual potency and urinary continence were compared in patients who underwent the antegrade dissection and those who underwent the standard retrograde nerve-sparing radical retropubic prostatectomy. Histopathological evaluation revealed no significant difference in the over-all completeness of tumor excision between the group having an antegrade dissection (16 of 30, 53% completely excised) and those having a retrograde dissection (177 of 305, 58% completely excised) (p = 0.62). Patients with clinically localized but pathological stage C disease undergoing an antegrade dissection and a nerve-sparing procedure had a significantly higher incidence of positive lateral margins (9 of 12, 75%) than the comparable group undergoing a retrograde dissection (40 of 99, 40%) (p = 0.02). The incidence of positive apical margins was similar in both groups, with 5 of 14 (36%) of the antegrade stage C cases (36%) having positive apical margins compared to 37 of 117 of the retrograde stage C cases (32%) (p = 0.65). Sexual potency was preserved in 5 of 6 patients (83%) treated with an antegrade dissection who had both neurovascular bundles preserved and were followed for at least 6 months, compared to 86 of 142 (61%) who underwent retrograde dissection (difference not significant, p = 0.26). Potency was preserved in 6 of 13 evaluable patients (46%) undergoing unilateral antegrade nerve-sparing procedure compared to 21 of 48 evaluable patients (44%) undergoing unilateral retrograde nerve-sparing procedure (p = 0.88). Of 22 patients followed for 1 year 21 (95%) have regained urinary continence. We conclude that the antegrade approach to radical retropubic prostatectomy provides results that are comparable to those achieved with the standard retrograde approach but that when an antegrade approach is chosen because of periprostatic fibrosis, bilateral preservation of the neurovascular bundles may result in a higher incidence of positive surgical margins. 
Asthma in the emergency department: impact of a protocol on optimizing therapy. The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of a simple educational intervention on the prescribing habits of internal medicine residents in the treatment of acute asthma in a busy emergency department (ED). Prescribing habits for 16 residents were documented for 4 months. The first 2 months served as a control period during which eight residents managed asthma patients without the benefit of any specific educational intervention beyond standard department protocols. A total of 129 patients treated by the residents during this initial phase were assessed. During the second 2-month period, a 10-minute verbal presentation and explicit written treatment protocol were provided to another eight residents, and their treatment of 83 patients was covertly evaluated. Increased prescribing of desired therapy was significantly improved in every area except that of prescribing an inhaled steroid metered dose inhaler for use as a discharge medication. The 10-minute verbal presentation given in conjunction with a three-page handout was found to be highly effective for eliciting improvement in treatment practices during short clinical rotations. The duration of this effect beyond each rotation is unknown. This educational intervention should be presented by the ED medical director, clinical pharmacist, or other appropriate clinician in virtually any ED as quality of patient care can be dramatically improved. 
Low peptic ulcer and high gastric cancer prevalence in a developing country with a high prevalence of infection by Helicobacter pylori. We compared the prevalence rates of peptic ulcer (duodenal and gastric) and gastric cancer in 1,796 dyspeptic Peruvian patients with those reported in 2,883 similar patients from developed countries. The prevalence of total peptic ulcer was significantly lower, and that of gastric cancer significantly higher, in the Peruvian patients. The prevalence of gastric ulcer was lower but not significantly so. We deduced that the significantly lower prevalence of total peptic ulcer was directly related to the low prevalence rate of duodenal ulcer. We hypothesize that the reason for these differences was probably a higher prevalence of Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic atrophic gastritis with hypochlorhydria in the Peruvian patients. Hypochlorhydria decreases the predisposition to peptic ulcer (especially duodenal ulcer), and chronic atrophic gastritis may predispose an individual to gastric cancer. 
Psychosis following temporal lobe surgery: a report of six cases. Six consecutive patients who had had temporal lobe surgery for epilepsy, and been referred for psychiatric assessment of psychotic symptoms, are reported. Their symptoms (a delusional depression, four schizophrenia-like illnesses, and a case of Capgras' syndrome) are discussed in relation to the possible role of their operations, all of which were on the right hemisphere. 
Quality of life after proctocolectomy. A comparison of Brooke ileostomy, Kock pouch, and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. Recent work has shown that patients undergoing proctocolectomy and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis experience a better quality of life than those undergoing proctocolectomy and Brooke ileostomy. To assess whether the improvement with the pouch is due to the absence of a stoma or the preservation of fecal continence, functional and performance activities were assessed in 406 patients with Brooke ileostomies (stoma present, incontinent), 313 with Kock pouches (stoma present, continent), and 298 with ileal pouch-anal anastomoses (stoma absent, continent). All patients underwent proctocolectomy for ulcerative colitis or familial adenomatous polyposis. After adjusting for age, sex, diagnosis, attitude towards the operation, dietary satisfaction, and ability to work, the likelihood of an impact on performance was estimated for the three types of operation using logistic regression analysis. Patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomoses had fewer restrictions in sports and sexual activities than those with Kock pouches (P less than 0.05), whereas those with Kock pouches in turn had fewer restrictions in these activities but more restrictions in travel than those with Brooke ileostomies (P less than 0.05). In contrast, performance in the categories of social life, recreation, work, and family was similar between groups. It is concluded that both the presence of a stoma and fecal incontinence impair the quality of life after proctocolectomy. Ileal pouch-anal anastomosis, which avoids both stoma and incontinence, offers the best quality of life between the three operations studied. 
Normal P300 following extensive damage to the left medial temporal lobe. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during auditory and visual "oddball" tasks from a patient with a severe verbal memory deficit due to a low grade infiltrating glioma which involved the full extent of the left medial temporal lobe. In both sensory modalities, the patient's oddball-evoked P300s were symmetrical and of normal amplitude. These findings are difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that the hippocampus, or any other medial temporal structure, makes a substantial contribution to the scalp P300. 
Optimum dosage of 5-aminosalicylic acid as rectal enemas in patients with active ulcerative colitis. 5-Aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), the active moiety of sulphasalazine (SASP), was given as a rectal enema to patients with mild to moderate distal ulcerative colitis to determine the minimum effective dosage. A double blind study was carried out using enemas containing 1, 2, or 4 g or 5-ASA or placebo for a one month treatment period. One hundred and thirteen patients with ulcerative colitis attending our outpatient clinic volunteered to participate. Clinical, sigmoidoscopic, and histological assessments were carried out at the beginning of the study and after 15 and 30 days of treatment. All patients who received 5-ASA enemas showed significantly better results than those who received a placebo enema (p less than 0.001) but no difference was detected among the patients receiving differing concentrations of 5-ASA. This study suggests that 1 g 5-ASA (in a 100 ml enema) is a sufficient dosage for patients with a mild to moderate attack of ulcerative colitis. 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of transthyretin devised for semimicro plasma diagnosis of familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy. A highly sensitive and reproducible enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for human transthyretin was developed. The method is most suitable to serial monitoring of transthyretin peaks in reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography for the diagnosis of familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy based on isolation of variant transthyretin. This method semimicronized the original diagnostic method, requiring plasma samples of only 0.2 ml. The present enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method is also applicable to determine transthyretin in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. It correlated well when compared with a commercially available single radial immunodiffusion (r = 0.951, p less than 0.001). 
Detection of hepatitis B virus pre-S1 and pre-S2 determinants in paraffin wax embedded liver tissue: importance of reagents used. The presence of pre-S polypeptides in paraffin wax embedded liver sections from the biopsy specimens of 15 hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) seropositive patients (five with chronic persistent hepatitis (CPH), four with chronic active hepatitis (CAH), four with cirrhosis and two "healthy" HBsAg carriers) was investigated using monoclonal antibodies directed to distinct epitopes on pre-S1 (18/7 and TO 606) and pre-S2 (5535 and Q 19/10). Pre-S1 was found in 13 cases when MA 18/7 was used but in only one specimen when TO 606 was used. Pre-S2 was detected in all the biopsy specimens with 5535 and in eight samples with Q 19/10. Mild enzymatic digestion annulled the staining of all monoclonal antibodies but Q 19/10. No association was observed between pre-S polypeptide expression and hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication or disease severity. Pre-S polypeptides can be detected readily in paraffin wax embedded material but the results obtained largely depend on the monoclonal antibodies used. 
A randomized trial of ofloxacin versus cefoxitin and doxycycline in the outpatient treatment of acute salpingitis. The object of this randomized study was to compare the safety and efficacy of oral ofloxacin, 400 mg twice daily for 10 days, versus intramuscular cefoxitin, 2 gm, plus oral probenecid, 1 gm, followed by oral doxycycline, 100 mg twice daily for 10 days, in the outpatient treatment of uncomplicated acute salpingitis. Thirty-eight women (53%) had Neisseria gonorrhoeae from their pretreatment endocervical or endometrial cultures, and 18 had Chlamydia trachomatis (25%). Thirty-five of 37 women (95%) treated with the ofloxacin regimen were clinically cured, and 34 of 35 (97%) were cured with the cefoxitin-doxycycline regimen (p = 0.52). One clinical failure occurred in each group with N. gonorrhoeae infection, and one failure occurred in the ofloxacin group because of side effects. The bacteriologic response for N. gonorrhoeae in both groups was 100%. The eradication of C. trachomatis was 100% (10/10) for the cefoxitin/doxycycline group and 86% (6/7) for ofloxacin. The side effects were similar in both groups of subjects. In this study both regimens were effective for the outpatient treatment of uncomplicated acute salpingitis. 
Value of dual-energy CT in differentiating focal fatty infiltration of the liver from low-density masses. Focal (irregular, partial) fatty infiltration of the liver may simulate neoplastic or other hypodense masses on CT. On the basis of previous observations of the phenomenon that differences in X-ray attenuation diminish with increasing energy of X-rays used, we performed a preliminary study to determine if dual-energy CT could be used to discriminate between fatty infiltration and hypodense liver masses. Dual-energy CT at 140 and 80 kVp was performed in 14 patients undergoing liver biopsy and in seven control subjects with presumedly normal liver. Attenuation measurements were taken, and the changes in attenuation between 140 and 80 kVp were calculated. The mean changes in attenuation were 3.5 H for normal liver (n = 7), 2.5 H for hypodense liver masses (n = 6), 13 H for fatty liver (n = 5), 0.3 H for fatty liver combined with hemochromatosis or hemosiderosis (n = 3), and 2 H for the spleen (n = 18). The change in attenuation increased as the fat content in the liver increased. Analysis of variance showed a statistically significant difference (p less than .001) between fatty liver and the other groups. A difference greater than 10 H was unique to fatty infiltration. These results suggest that dual-energy CT may help to differentiate focal fatty infiltration of the liver from low-density neoplastic or other lesions, but only if the iron content of the liver is not increased. 
Nonpharmacological treatment of hypertension in diabetes mellitus. Hypertension may be partially or completely controlled by appropriate use of nondrug therapies. Because diabetic patients are so often hypertensive and because the same nondrug therapies effective for treatment of hypertension may also benefit the diabetes, the use of nondrug therapies is particularly important in these patients. Evidence about the effectiveness of various nondrug therapies is provided along with practical suggestions to improve patient adherence to them. 
Problems faced by the urban emergency department in providing rapid triage and intervention for the patient with suspected acute myocardial infarction. Widespread application of thrombolytic therapy has increased the importance of rapid triage and intervention for the patient who seeks treatment in the emergency department (ED) for suspected acute myocardial infarction. It has been suggested that all patients with acute myocardial infarction who might benefit from thrombolytic therapy should receive treatment within the first "golden hour" of arrival at the hospital ED. Busy urban medical centers, particularly public hospitals serving a large proportion of indigent patients, face special challenges in attempting to meet this goal. ED overcrowding, in part caused by patient "dumping," and diminishing governmental financial support have created an environment in which rapid triage and treatment are difficult. Because only 4% to 5% of all patients who are seen in the ED with chest pain actually require thrombolytic therapy, there is negative reinforcement for the triage nursing staff. The busy urban ED environment also creates greater litigation potential for the physician and nurse. Problems created by the busy ED environment can be minimized by providing adequate nursing staff, standing orders and protocols for evaluation of the patient with chest pain, equipment for an immediate electrocardiogram, and a thrombolytic drug stock in the ED. Hospital administrators must recognize the unique problems created in the ED when inpatient beds are unavailable. The hospital must also have efficient bed turnover and a community-wide plan for dealing with patients when the ED "closes" to incoming ambulance traffic. Governmental entities must recognize the consequences of their actions in curtailing health care benefits for those who cannot afford care in private hospitals. 
Reactivity of proximal and distal angiographically normal and stenotic coronary segments in chronic stable angina pectoris. To assess whether vasoreactivity of significant coronary stenosis (greater than 50% intraluminal diameter reduction) and that of angiographically normal coronary segments differs in proximal and distal locations, 53 patients (40 men, 13 women, mean +/- standard deviation age 55 +/- 11 years) with chronic stable angina and angiographically documented coronary artery disease were studied. While abstaining from antianginal therapy, all 53 patients underwent coronary arteriography before and after 1 mg of intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate and 21 of the 53 also before and after 20 to 30 micrograms intracoronary ergonovine. Computerized quantitative angiography was used to assess changes in the intraluminal diameter of 126 normal coronary segments (63 proximal, 63 distal) and 43 significant coronary stenoses. Nitrates dilated proximal normal coronary segments by 7.4 +/- 1.2% and distal normal coronary segments by 15 +/- 1.7% (p less than 0.01). Significant proximal coronary stenoses dilated by 11 +/- 2.5% and distal stenoses by 23 +/- 2.8% (p less than 0.01) after nitrates. Ergonovine reduced the diameter of proximal normal coronary segments by 9.3 +/- 1.7% and that of normal distal segments by 15.5 +/- 1.4% (p less than 0.01). Proximal stenoses constricted by 11 +/- 2.2% and distal stenoses by 18.4 +/- 2.8% (p = 0.06). Analysis of segments showed that nitrates dilated 19 of 63 (30%) proximal normal segments by (greater than or equal to 10%), 31 of 63 (49%) distal (p less than 0.05) and 21 of 43 (49%) stenoses. 
Subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil and herpes simplex keratitis. We present a case of herpes simplex keratitis that appeared during a period following filtering surgery in which subconjunctival 5-FU was being administered. Although the 5-FU treatment was not halted, 4 days later the keratitis healed. The typical practice of discontinuing 5-FU treatment when these kinds of inflammation occur following filtering surgery may be unwarranted. 
Murine typhus identified as a major cause of febrile illness in a camp for displaced Khmers in Thailand. Scrub and murine typhus have been identified as causes of illness among the 238,000 displaced Khmer people residing in temporary settlements on the Thai side of the Thai-Cambodian border. Still, the true extent of the problem and the relative frequency of infection with scrub typhus as compared to murine typhus are unknown. We evaluated consecutive patients with unexplained pyrexia (documented fever, no exclusionary diagnosis, and constitutional symptoms) in 1 temporary settlement over 1 month. Laboratory studies included culture of blood and assay of paired sera for rickettsial IgM and IgG antibody, for dengue IgM and IgG antibody, and for leptospiral IgM and IgG antibody. Among 37 patients (27 adults and 10 children), 28 (75%) had a rickettsiosis (26 cases of murine typhus and 2 cases of scrub typhus). No case of enteric fever, dengue, or leptospirosis was diagnosed. The illnesses of 9 patients were not identified. Signs and symptoms did not distinguish confirmed rickettsial infections from undiagnosed illnesses. The 1 month attack rate of rickettsial infection was 29/100,000 for children and 185/100,000 for adults. Murine typhus was a major cause of febrile illness in this settlement. 
The Washington University-Barnes Hospital experience with lung transplantation. Washington University Lung Transplantation Group OBJECTIVE.--To review our experience with lung transplantation, emphasizing recipient selection, choice of procedure, functional results, and outcome. DESIGN.--Retrospective review of patients who received lung transplants at Barnes Hospital, St Louis, Mo, between July 1, 1988, and January 31, 1991. SETTING.--Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Mo, and Barnes Hospital, a medical school and its affiliated referral hospital, respectively. PATIENTS.--Sixty-nine lung transplant procedures were performed in 66 recipients. Patients with clinically and physiologically severe lung disease were selected according to predetermined guidelines. Underlying diseases in the recipients included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency emphysema, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, primary pulmonary hypertension, Eisenmenger's syndrome associated with an atrial septal defect, bronchiectasis, eosinophilic granuloma, and lymphangiomyomatosis. INTERVENTION.--Double-lung, bilateral sequential, and single-lung transplantations were performed. Eight patients underwent en bloc double-lung transplantations or a modification of this procedure with separate bronchial anastomoses. Thereafter, the bilateral sequential approach to replacement of both lungs was performed in 26 patients. Thirty-two patients underwent single-lung transplantations. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Pulmonary function tests, arterial blood gas levels, pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance, and actuarial survival. RESULTS.--Actuarial survival at 1 year for the 66 lung transplant recipients was 79%. Actuarial survival at 1 year was 82% for the bilateral lung transplant recipients and was 90% for the single-lung transplant recipients. In patients with either restrictive or obstructive lung disease, pulmonary function tests and arterial blood gas levels improved markedly after lung transplantation. In patients with primary pulmonary hypertension or Eisenmenger's syndrome, the pulmonary artery pressure decreased and the cardiac index increased into the normal range after single-lung transplantation. CONCLUSIONS.--In carefully selected patients with end-stage lung disease, single-lung and bilateral lung transplantations can significantly improve functional capacity, with promising early actuarial survival statistics after 1 year. 
Migraine pain associated with middle cerebral artery dilatation: reversal by sumatriptan. The combination of measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and blood velocity in the middle cerebral arteries (MCA) by transcranial doppler sonography was used to investigate cerebrovascular involvement in migraine. Ten migraine patients with unilateral headache were studied during an attack and when they had been free of attacks for 5 days (non-attack). On both occasions they were given as intravenous infusion of sumatriptan (2 mg), a 5-HT1-like receptor agonist, which relieved the symptoms within 30 min without affecting rCBF. The MCA velocity was normal on both sides on the non-attack day and on the unaffected side during the attack. However, during the attack the MCA velocity on the headache side was significantly lower than that on the non-headache side (45 vs 61 cm/s:mean difference 16.3 [95% confidence interval 10.3-22.3]; p = 0.02). The MCA velocity on the headache side returned to normal after treatment with sumatriptan and recovery. Since rCBF in the MCA supply territory was unaffected, the lower velocity can be explained only by dilatation of the MCA. The mean MCA diameter increase was estimated to be 20%. Thus, headache was associated with intracranial large arterial dilatation on the headache side. Sumatriptan predominantly had effects on the distended artery, which suggests that the 5-HT receptor system has a role in the pathogenesis of migraine. 
Beta-adrenergic blocker therapy does not worsen intermittent claudication in subjects with peripheral arterial disease. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials Beta-Adrenergic blockers have been considered relatively contraindicated in peripheral arterial disease because of the perceived risk that these drugs could worsen intermittent claudication. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis of available randomized controlled trials from the English-language literature to determine whether or not beta-blockers exacerbate intermittent claudication. The primary focus of this analysis was the effect of beta-blockers on exercise duration, measured as walking capacity or endurance time. Outcomes were pooled where appropriate. Of 11 eligible reports, six included 11 individual controlled treatment comparisons that provided data for an analysis of pain-free exercise capacity; no effect size was statistically significant. The pooled effect size for pain-free walking distance was -0.24 (95% confidence interval, -0.62 to 0.14), indicating no significant impairment of walking capacity compared with placebo. Only one study reported that certain beta-blockers were associated with worsening of intermittent claudication. These results strongly suggest that beta-blockers do not adversely affect walking capacity or symptoms of intermittent claudication in patients with mild to moderate peripheral arterial disease. In the absence of other contraindications, beta-blockers can probably be used safely in such patients. 
Exercise-induced myocardial dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease with and without angina. Left ventricular dysfunction during exercise is considered a relatively sensitive marker of ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. The purpose of this study was to determine whether exercise-induced myocardial dysfunction was more severe in patients with angina than in patients with ischemia without angina. Seventy-seven patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease and an abnormal left ventricular response to exercise were studied by means of gated blood pool imaging. The arteriographic and functional parameters of 24 patients with angina during exercise testing imaging. The arteriographic and functional parameters of 24 patients with angina during exercise testing were compared with those of 53 patients who were pain free at the time of the test. Both groups were similar with regard to rate of multivessel disease (50% vs 51%, p = NS) and prior myocardial infarction (46% vs 51%, p = NS), as well as age, sex, and history of angina. Mean global ejection fraction remained unchanged (but abnormal) in both groups of patients during exercise. Furthermore, evidence of new regional asynergy during exercise assessed by a five-point scoring system was found to be equally abnormal in the two groups. Results of this study suggest that the severity of exercise-induced global and regional left ventricular dysfunction is independent of the presence of absence of angina during exercise testing. 
Laser balloon angioplasty: potential for reduction of the thrombogenicity of the injured arterial wall and for local application of bioprotective materials. Mitigation of adverse biologic reactivity after balloon angioplasty is necessary before the incidence of restenosis can be appreciably reduced. A brief review of experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that the thrombogenicity of the injured arterial wall can be reduced by a suitable level of thermal denaturation or cross-linking of thrombogenic proteins. In addition, the concept of local pharmacologic therapy, which can be provided with laser balloon angioplasty at the site of arterial injury, is introduced. Preliminary in vitro and in vivo data suggest that guide catheter-injected albumin-heparin conjugates fabricated as water-insoluble microspheres remain adherent to the injured luminal surface and deeper arterial layers after physical trapping by the inflated balloon and subsequent laser/thermal exposure. The combination of initially adequate luminal morphology, reduction of the thrombogenicity of the injured arterial wall and application of local pharmacologic therapy with laser balloon angioplasty may eventually prove helpful in reducing the incidence of restenosis. 
Leber congenital amaurosis in siblings with diffuse dysmyelination. Two brothers are described with the previously unrecognized combination of Leber amaurosis and abnormal myelin detected by magnetic resonance imaging. Both have evidence of delayed psychomotor development and one has autistic features. A possible relationship with infantile autism or a peroxisomal dysfunction syndrome is explored. No peroxisomal defect was found in these patients. 
The effect of carbon dioxide laser surgery on the recurrence of keloids. The efficacy of carbon dioxide laser excision as a primary modality for the treatment of keloids was evaluated. This retrospective study focuses on 31 patients with one or more keloids, 23 of whom were available for follow-up after carbon dioxide laser excision. The patients' ages ranged from 5 to 72 years. There were 16 females and 7 males. One patient was Caucasian, 22 patients were non-Caucasian, and there were no Asians. The keloids that were excised ranged in size from 1 to 30 cm in greatest diameter. One patient had no recurrence of her keloid after carbon dioxide laser excision, 9 patients required steroids to suppress recurrences, and 13 patients were considered failures. Reasons for the failure of this modality, as well as speculation regarding the future of this procedure, are discussed. 
The comparison of 2-18F-2-deoxyglucose and 15-(ortho-123I-phenyl)-pentadecanoic acid uptake in persisting defects on thallium-201 tomography in myocardial infarction. The myocardial uptake of glucose and fatty acids into 201Tl redistribution defects were studied in 32 patients with myocardial infarction by tomography using 2-18F-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) and 15-(ortho-123I-phenyl)-pentadecanoic acid (oPPA). A total of 1153 segments were analyzed, 408 (35%) of which showed a persistent thallium-defect in stress-redistribution images. Of the segments with a decreased 201Tl uptake in these redistribution tomograms, 50.5% had a decreased uptake of both FDG and oPPA; in 21.8% FDG as well as oPPA uptake was within normal range. Normal FDG uptake but decreased oPPA uptake was detected in 17.4%, whereas 10.3% of the segments had normal oPPA uptake but decreased FDG uptake (chi-square test, p less than 0.001). A significant correlation of FDG and oPPA uptake (r = 0.51) was found in the segments with persistent 201Tl defect. Thus, a substantial fraction of persistent thallium-defects after healed myocardial infarction exhibit FDG as well as oPPA uptake, probably due to residual fatty acid metabolism in partially ischemic regions. 
Carotid sinus baroreceptor reflex in dogs with experimental heart failure. We have previously demonstrated a decrease in baroreceptor discharge sensitivity in dogs with experimental heart failure. In the present study, we determined the sensitivity of the carotid sinus baroreceptor reflex in dogs with pacing-induced heart failure. The carotid sinus baroreceptor reflex sensitivity was determined by pressurizing one carotid sinus with all other baroreceptor and cardiopulmonary receptor inputs removed. The data were analyzed by plotting carotid sinus pressure-mean arterial pressure curves and carotid sinus pressure-renal sympathetic nerve activity curves in the two groups of dogs. The peak arterial pressure during carotid hypotension was significantly depressed in dogs with heart failure compared with normal dogs (107.1 +/- 5.7 versus 139.8 +/- 7.0 mm Hg, p less than 0.001). Mean arterial pressure range, renal sympathetic nerve activity range, and peak slope were significantly decreased in the heart-failure group. To determine if this depression was completely due to depression of baroreceptor discharge per se, or to alterations in central or end-organ responsiveness, similar experiments were performed by stimulating the carotid sinus nerve and evaluating frequency, voltage, and duration of stimulation on the resultant mean arterial pressure and renal sympathetic nerve activity. As was the case with carotid sinus pressurization, electrical stimulation caused a significantly smaller change in mean arterial pressure in heart-failure dogs compared with the normal dogs. However, there was no significant difference between normal and heart-failure dogs for the renal sympathetic nerve activity-electrical stimulation curves. These data strongly suggest that the depressed carotid sinus baroreceptor reflex in heart failure is not solely the result of depressed baroreceptor responsiveness but may be related to poor end-organ responses and normal central control of renal sympathetic outflow. 
Therapeutic approach to sinusitis: antiinfectious therapy as the baseline of management. Although acute sinusitis is an infectious disease in which several bacterial species play a major etiologic role, there is an important interaction between the respiratory viruses (common cold viruses) and the bacteria in the pathogenesis of acute community-acquired sinusitis. The relative inaccessibility of the sinus cavities makes special techniques of sampling necessary to acquire specimens that accurately reflect disease conditions in the sinuses. Bacterial etiology of sinus infection has therefore been determined by sinus puncture studies, chiefly of the maxillary sinus, several of which are reviewed here. Because the bacteria causing acute sinusitis have not changed in many years, puncture is not often necessary for clinical diagnosis. Patients with acute, community-acquired sinusitis can usually be treated empirically, on the basis of previous studies, unless complications are suspected. In that case, and in other patients with hospital-acquired sinusitis, puncture of the involved sinus and aspiration of sinus fluid for Gram's staining and quantitative microbial cultures and sensitivities are required for appropriate antimicrobial management. 
Canadian Atrial Fibrillation Anticoagulation (CAFA) Study. The Canadian Atrial Fibrillation Anticoagulation Study was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to assess the potential of warfarin to reduce systemic thromboembolism and its inherent risk of hemorrhage. As a result of the publication of two other "positive" studies of similar design and objective, this study was stopped early before completion of its planned recruitment of 630 patients. There were 187 patients randomized to warfarin and 191 to placebo. Permanent discontinuation of study medication occurred in 26% of warfarin-treated and 23% of placebo-treated patients. The target range of the international normalized ratio was 2 to 3. For the warfarin-treated patients, the international normalized ratio was in the target range 43.7% of the study days, above it 16.6% of the study days and below it 39.6% of the study days. Fatal or major bleeding occurred at annual rates of 2.5% in warfarin-treated and 0.5% in placebo-treated patients. Minor bleeding occurred in 16% of patients receiving warfarin and 9% receiving placebo. The primary outcome event cluster was nonlacunar stroke, noncentral nervous systemic embolism and fatal or intracranial hemorrhage. Events were included in the primary analysis of efficacy if they occurred within 28 days of permanent discontinuation of the study medication. The annual rates of the primary outcome event cluster were 3.5% in warfarin-treated and 5.2% in placebo-treated patients, with a relative risk reduction of 37% (95% confidence limits, -63.5%, 75.5%, p = 0.17). 
Comparative reflex response times of vastus medialis obliquus and vastus lateralis in normal subjects and subjects with extensor mechanism dysfunction. An electromyographic study. Reflex response times of the vastus medialis obliquus and vastus lateralis were evaluated in 41 normal subjects and 16 patients with extensor mechanism dysfunction. The reflex response times for both muscles to a patellar tendon tap were evaluated by electromyography. The latencies of the muscles were statistically analyzed in both groups. In normal subjects, one-tailed paired-sample t-tests determined that the vastus medialis obliquus fired significantly faster than the vastus lateralis (P less than 0.001). In the patients, the vastus lateralis fired significantly faster than the vastus medialis obliquus (P less than 0.001). A chi square goodness of fit test demonstrated a dependency between the order of muscle firing and the type of subject (P less than 0.001). Two-tailed independent-sample t-tests revealed that the patients demonstrated a significantly faster vastus lateralis response time than the normal subjects (P less than 0.001), whereas the vastus medialis obliquus times were not significantly different. This increase in vastus lateralis reflex response time may indicate a motor control problem in the patient with extensor mechanism dysfunction. Results indicate that there is a reversal of the normal muscular firing order between the two muscles in these patients. Patients with extensor mechanism dysfunction may be demonstrating a neurophysiologic motor control imbalance that may account for or contribute to their anterior knee pain. 
Unsuspected quinine intoxication presenting as acute deafness and mutism. A case of unsuspected quinine overdose is reported in a 14-year-old girl. Presenting symptoms included deafness and mutism. Diagnosis was delayed for approximately 4 hours because of the absence of an accurate history. Case details, laboratory values, and hospital course are discussed. Signs of cinchonism and common ototoxins are discussed. Strategies for the management of quinine overdose are reviewed. 
Unilateral pulmonary oedema of the contralateral lung following transaxillary sympathectomy. A previously healthy young male developed unilateral pulmonary oedema immediately after re-expansion of an intentionally collapsed lung after transaxillary sympathectomy. The pulmonary oedema was localised to the contralateral, uncollapsed lung. 
Primary surgical treatment for carcinoma of the larynx: influence of the local invasion. In the period from 1976 to 1988, 417 patients with supraglottic carcinoma of the larynx were treated by primary surgery. Infiltration of the pre-epiglottic space was found in 11.99 per cent (50/417) of the patients. Carcinomas of the infrahyoid epiglottis spread to this space more frequently--14.24 per cent (44/309), than those of suprahyoid localization--5.55 per cent (6/108). Tumour invasion of the pre-epiglottic space is a relative contra-indication for reconstructive surgery. Partial conservation operations were performed on 32 per cent (16/50) of patients with invasion of the pre-epiglottic space. The remaining patients had a total laryngectomy. Infiltration of the paraglottic space intra-operatively was found in 2.4 per cent (10/417) of patients and all of these tumours were from the infrahyoid localization. Spread of tumours to this site is an indication for radical surgery and laryngectomy was performed on 80 per cent (8/10) of patients. 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A new look at regression of gastrinomas. Of 44 patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated at our institution, nine appeared to have undergone "regression" of their gastrinomas. Six of the nine patients had sporadic gastrinomas and became permanently eugastrinemic following excision of nodal metastases and total gastrectomy (n = 4), antrectomy (n = 1), or pancreatoduodenectomy (n = 1) (mean survival, 13 years). The other three patients had Zollinger-Ellison syndrome as part of the multiple endocrine adenopathy type 1 syndrome and became temporarily eugastrinemic after total gastrectomy (mean survival, 11 years). Occult submucosal duodenal-wall microgastrinomas (mean size, 3.0 mm) were found to have been serendipitously excised in four patients. Long-term follow-up of these nine patients, as well as of six other patients described in the literature, demonstrates that excision of occult duodenal-wall gastrinomas provides a plausible explanation for the phenomenon of apparent regression of primary gastrinomas and the eugastrinemia that may follow total gastrectomy. 
Spontaneous dissecting aneurysms of the basilar artery presenting with a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Report of two cases. A spontaneous dissecting aneurysm of the basilar artery is a rare disorder, usually presenting with ischemia rather than a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Two cases are described of a dissecting aneurysm of the basilar artery presenting with an SAH. Vertebral angiography revealed a double lumen to the basilar artery. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging detected the intramural hematoma. One patient was treated conservatively, and the other underwent operative intervention with wrapping of the aneurysm. The usefulness of MR imaging in the diagnosis and the treatment options are discussed. 
Reversible sustained increase of gastrin and gastric acid secretion in a subgroup of duodenal ulcer patients on long-term treatment with H2 antagonists We assessed the effect of long-lasting inhibition of gastric acid secretion on basal and meal-stimulated serum gastrin and gastric acid secretion in 37 patients on long-term maintenance treatment with H2 antagonists for severe relapsing and/or complicated duodenal ulcer disease. After a mean of 142 weeks (range, 28-324 weeks) of continuous treatment, gastric acid secretion, basal plasma gastrin, and gastrin response to a test meal were evaluated. All tests were performed a week after drug discontinuation to exclude rapidly reversible hypergastrinemia. Gastrin levels were above the normal range in seven patients (18.9%). After H2 antagonist were stopped for 6 weeks, basal gastrin returned to normal levels in all cases [from a median of 180 (range, 130-350) pg/ml to 58 (25-90) pg/ml] and peak meal-stimulated gastrin significantly decreased from a median of 500 pg/ml to 245 pg/ml (p = 0.02). In patients with hypergastrinemia, the discontinuation of H2 antagonists for 6 weeks led to a significant decrease of gastric acid secretion. Patients who developed hypergastrinemia spent more weeks on full-dose treatment and had more recurrences during therapy. The results of the present investigation demonstrate that a long-lasting inhibition of gastric acid secretion can induce, in a small percentage of patients, a reversible sustained hypergastrinemia and a consequent increase of acid secretion, which conceivably could lead to more frequent relapses of duodenal ulcer disease. 
Molecular differences between human and experimental pancreaticobiliary diversion-induced rat pancreatic neoplasia. A series of molecular changes are now known to be seen in human pancreatic neoplasia, including the very frequent mutational activation of Kirsten ras oncogene at codon 12, overexpression of the epidermal growth factor receptor, and abnormalities of c-erbB-2 expression. In order to determine whether similar changes can be seen in animal models of pancreatic cancer a molecular analysis of tumours induced in rats by pancreaticobiliary diversion was performed. The polymerase chain reaction was used to amplify portions of the rat Kirsten ras gene and sequence specific oligonucleotide hybridisation was used to define whether sequences were wild type or mutant. No evidence of mutation was found in the Kirsten ras gene at codons 12 or 61, where activating mutations are known to occur. In addition immunohistochemical methods were used to investigate expression of c-erB-2 and the epidermal growth factor receptor but no evidence of abnormal expression was found. We conclude that there are major molecular differences between human and experimental rat pancreatic cancer. 
Nd:YAG iliac and femoropopliteal laser angioplasty: results with large probes as "sole therapy". Laser assisted balloon angioplasty with a laser heated metallic capped fiberoptic catheter may be effective in the treatment of femoral and iliac artery occlusive disease. In order to avoid the inherent trauma of balloon angioplasty, yet at the same time "debulk" atheroma, 75 patients underwent laser angioplasty of the superficial femoral and iliac arteries as "sole therapy". Laser angioplasty was performed using an Nd:YAG laser coupled to a 600 micron fiber and a 3.5 mm probe (22-28 watts), 4.2 mm or 5.0 probe (32-40 watts). Fifty-nine patients had laser angioplasty for claudication and 16 for limb salvage. The initial angiographic success rate was 84% (41/49) (lesion length 2-14 cm) for the superficial femoral and 69% (18/26) (lesion length 2-14 cm) for the iliac arteries. In follow-up extending to 21 months (mean 14.4 months) 73% (30/41) of the superficial femoral artery and 76% (14/18) of the initially recanalized iliac arteries remain patent. When initial failures are included, this represents an overall intermediate-term patency rate of 52% (32/49) for superficial femoral and 49% (14/26) for iliac arteries respectively. By avoiding the disruptive effect on the arterial wall architecture caused by balloon angioplasty, while at the same time ablating and vaporizing more atheromatous material with larger laser probes, the long-term patency rates of laser angioplasty as "sole therapy" may prove to be superior to those of laser assisted balloon angioplasty. 
Pulmonary phaeohyphomycosis due to Xylohypha bantiana. We encountered a rare case of pulmonary phaeohyphomycosis due to Xylohypha bantiana documented by culture. This dematiaceous (darkly pigmented) fungus is primarily neurotropic. It usually produces phaeohyphomycosis of the central nervous system but may also involve the skin and subcutaneous tissues. The patient, a 49-year-old woman with a history of steroid-treated inflammatory bowel disease, was found to have a lung nodule consisting of granulomas that contained dark hyphal fragments that stained positively with the argentaffin reaction. Surgical excision was curative and appears to be the treatment of choice. 
Angiographic evolution of coronary atherosclerosis in patients receiving propranolol. A two-year follow-up STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test whether propranolol may influence the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. DESIGN: Repeat coronary angiography after two year treatment and evaluation of changes in coronary narrowings. SETTING: Subjects with effort angina of recent onset requiring coronary angiography and medical treatment. PATIENTS: 80 untreated patients, with a greater than or equal to 50 percent focal narrowing on a major coronary branch associated or not with a less than 50 percent stenosis of other major branches. They were randomized to isosorbide dinitrate (40 mg bid) (group 1, control group) or to propranolol (80 mg qid) (group 2, treatment group). RESULTS: At restudy, there were more diseased vessels and These narrowings per patient in both groups. Multivessel involvement and greater than or equal to 50 percent obstructions were also augmented. These changes were not statistically significant. Patients with progression of the stenotic tracts (both greater than or equal to 50 percent and less than 50 percent were 19 (48 percent) in group 1 and 28 (70 percent) in group 2 (p less than 0.05). Narrowings with progression were 25 in group 1 and 48 in group 2. Thirteen narrowings in group 1 and 15 in group 2 were newly detected at restudy. Eighteen patients (45 percent) in group 1 and nine (23 percent) in group 2 had a steady disease. Smoking, high blood pressure, family history of coronary disease, blood glucose values and lipid levels were considered; the only significant group differences were 31 percent rise of total triglyceride and 23 percent decrease of HDL cholesterol in patients who were treated with propranolol. CONCLUSIONS: Propranolol showed an adverse influence on coronary atherosclerosis, regarding the evolution of both greater than or equal to 50 percent and less than 50 percent narrowings and not the formation of new stenoses. Changes in serum lipid values might have a role. 
Comparison of duplex ultrasonography and venography in the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis. Sixty-five patients with suspected deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in 68 limbs were entered consecutively into a study to compare venography with duplex ultrasonography scanning. Both tests were performed on 64 limbs, venography being contraindicated in four. Overall, duplex scanning correctly identified 86 per cent of DVTs diagnosed on venography and correctly excluded 80 per cent with negative venograms. Nearly all errors arose in the diagnosis of calf DVT. In the femoral vein duplex scanning had a specificity of 100 per cent and a sensitivity of 95 per cent. In addition, duplex scanning provided data on the limb not undergoing venography. Of 55 limbs that underwent bilateral duplex scanning, five had thrombus in the femoropopliteal segment and a negative contralateral venogram. In addition, three Baker's cysts were diagnosed. Duplex scanning can be used in patients in whom venography is contraindicated and may also provide information about the contralateral limb. We regard femoropopliteal duplex scanning as sufficiently accurate that treatment can be initiated on the basis of the scan. Duplex scanning should replace venography as the standard method of diagnosing femoropopliteal DVT; radiographic studies should now be required only when the scan result is in doubt. 
Use of amiodarone for short-term and adjuvant therapy in young patients. Limited data are available defining the safety of amiodarone for short-term use or as part of combination antiarrhythmic therapy in pediatric patients. Results of amiodarone in 47 young patients for an average treatment duration of 12 months were examined. There were 21 male and 26 female patients (age range of 23 weeks gestation to 29 years). Patients were divided into 4 groups: group 1--electrocardiographic documented ventricular tachycardia (n = 7); group 2--syncope of unknown cause (n = 16); group 3--primary atrial tachycardia (n = 11); and group 4--supraventricular tachycardia (n = 13). Amiodarone was clinically useful in 32 (68%) patients. Amiodarone was considered effective as a sole antiarrhythmic agent in 21 (45%) patients. Treatment was ineffective but was continued in 11 (23%) patients; in 10 of these 11 patients amiodarone was adjuvant to other antiarrhythmic drugs. Amiodarone was considered ineffective and was withdrawn in 15 (32%) patients. No patient required cardiac pacemaker implant during therapy. Torsades de pointes and cardiac arrest occurred in 1 patient each after 9 and 14 days of therapy, respectively. Two patients underwent successful cardiac transplant after 2 and 14 months of amiodarone administration, respectively. Amiodarone was used as short-term treatment (less than 18 months) in 7 infants (age less than 18 months), and after cessation of treatment there was no recurrence of tachycardia for 4 to 24 months. Results of this study confirm reports of successful amiodarone use in pediatric patients with a variety of rhythm disturbances. 
Gastrointestinal malignancy in patients with AIDS. To clarify the prevalence and characteristics of gastrointestinal malignancy in patients with AIDS, we reviewed the demographics and clinical features of patients with AIDS and gastrointestinal neoplasms seen at North Central Bronx Hospital and Montefiore Medical Center during the past 8 yr. Malignant neoplasia complicated AIDS in 108/869 (12%) of the cases in our study. Most common was Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) (60%), followed by lymphoma (35%) and miscellaneous tumors (6.5%). The gastrointestinal tract was involved in 35/108 (32%) of patients with AIDS and neoplasia. Gastrointestinal tract involvement with KS usually was silent, although present, in every patient with KS who underwent autopsy. Lymphoma was most commonly non-Hodgkin's, and often produced symptoms. Uncommonly, the gastrointestinal tract was the primary site of neoplasms other than KS or lymphoma. 
Frontal lobe degeneration: clinical, neuropsychological, and SPECT characteristics. The clinical, neuropsychological, and cerebral blood flow characteristics of eight patients with frontal lobe degeneration (FLD) were studied. Social withdrawal and behavioral disinhibition were the earliest and most common clinical presentations, and psychiatric symptoms typically preceded the onset of dementia by several years. Neuropsychological testing showed selective impairment of frontal and memory tasks with relative sparing of attention, language, and visuospatial skills. Single-photon emission computerized tomography demonstrated frontal and temporal hypoperfusion with relative sparing of parietal and occipital blood flow. Previous studies suggest that the neuropathologic findings in patients with FLD are varied; some demonstrate frontal gliosis, neuronal loss, and Pick bodies while others show only gliosis and neuronal loss. 
Physician practices in the prevention of venous thromboembolism. OBJECTIVE: To determine the rate of use of prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism in high-risk hospital patients. DESIGN: A retrospective medical record review. SETTING: A community-wide study in 16 short-stay hospitals in central Massachusetts. PATIENTS: A total of 2017 patients with multiple risk factors for venous thromboembolism. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: On the basis of age, length of hospitalization, and the presence of at least one additional major risk factor, 17% of 151,349 discharges (25,410 patients) were identified as being at high risk for venous thromboembolism. Eight percent of these discharges were randomly selected for medical record review. Prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism was received by 32% of these high-risk patients. Prophylaxis use among the 16 study hospitals varied widely, ranging from 9% to 56%, and was higher in teaching hospitals than in nonteaching hospitals (44% compared with 19%; P less than 0.001). One or more of the following methods of prophylaxis was used: low-dose heparin (78%), intermittent calf compression (13%), warfarin (12%), and inferior vena caval filter (3%). Use of prophylaxis increased with the number of risk factors identified (P less than 0.001). CONCLUSION: Prophylaxis for venous thromboemobolism is underused, particularly in nonteaching hospitals. 
Epidemiology of inflammatory bowel disease among U.S. military veterans. The Department of Veterans Affairs maintains a computerized patient treatment file that contains all records from veterans treated as inpatients in VA hospitals distributed throughout the United States. Using the patient treatment files from 1986 to 1989, the present study takes advantage of this large national data set to examine demographic and geographic associations of inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease tended to affect predominantly female, white, and younger veterans, these trends being more marked in cases of Crohn's disease than ulcerative colitis. Hospital discharges secondary to both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis appeared to be more frequent in veterans from northern than southern parts of the United States, but did not show a seasonal variation different from the general pattern of all other diagnoses. The results in veterans confirm observations made in other studies and suggest that inflammatory bowel disease among different populations is modulated by similar pathophysiologic mechanisms and environmental risk factors. 
Barrett's esophagus. A continuing conundrum. Barrett's esophagus, a condition in which the distal esophagus is lined by columnar epithelium, is almost always caused by gastroesophageal reflux and often occurs in conjunction with a sliding hiatal hernia. Patients are typically white men in their 50s who smoke and drink, and they present with complaints of regurgitation, heartburn, and/or dysphagia. Endoscopic biopsies are required to confirm the diagnosis. Complications, such as stricture, ulcer, dysplasia, and malignant degeneration, occur in many cases. Adenocarcinoma is the most serious complication. Medical treatment, including life-style changes as well as pharmacologic therapy, usually relieves symptoms and heals esophagitis, but when it fails, antireflux surgery is indicated. Patients without evidence of dysplasia should undergo endoscopy yearly; those with mild dysplasia require more frequent surveillance. If biopsies disclose severe dysplasia, esophagogastrectomy should be performed. 
Reading problems in adult chronic headache sufferers. In a questionnaire survey we determined the prevalence of problems with reading, at present as well as in the past, in adult chronic headache sufferers as compared with age- and sex-matched controls. The reading problems inquired about were those with reading in general, reading quickly, prolonged reading and reading comprehension. The subjects were also asked about present and past problems with writing, concentrating, performing mathematics and overall learning. Significant differences in the prevalences of the problems studied between the headache sufferers and controls were observed on just two items and only for the female groups. These items were present problems with reading comprehension (39.3% versus 7.5%; p = 0.002) and concentrating (46.4% versus 17.5%; p = 0.015). We concluded that adult female headache sufferers have impaired reading comprehension and concentration abilities which do not seem to originate from the past. 
Structure-function relationships of the mouse inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor. The homotetrameric complex of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (InsP3) receptors displays a Ca2+ release activity in response to InsP3 molecules. Structure-function relationships of the mouse cerebellar InsP3 receptor have been studied by analyses of a series of internal deletion or C-terminal truncation mutant proteins expressed in NG108-15 cells. Within the large cytoplasmic portion of the InsP3 receptor, approximately 650 N-terminal amino acids are highly conserved between mouse and Drosophila, and this region has the critical sequences for InsP3 binding that probably form the three-dimensionally restricted binding site. The N-terminal region of each InsP3 receptor subunit also binds one InsP3 molecule. Cross-linking experiments have revealed that InsP3 receptors are intermolecularly associated at the transmembrane domains and/or the successive C termini. The interaction between the receptor subunit and InsP3 may cause a conformational change in the tetrameric complex, resulting in the opening of Ca2+ channels. 
Treatment of pathologic fracture of the humerus. Twenty-one patients with 22 pathologic humeral fractures were seen between January 1977 and November 1988. All fractures were secondary to myeloma or metastatic disease. Primary bone tumors were not included. Nineteen of 22 fractures were treated with intramedullary fixation: 12 of these fractures were also treated with methylmethacrylate. Two patients had compression plating, and the remaining patient had no surgery. Twenty-eight percent had a previously undiagnosed malignancy. Postoperatively, 78% of the patients had only mild or moderate pain. Five patients had progression of local disease postoperatively, two resulting in failure of fixation. Both plates failed. Three patients required additional humeral procedures, one of which was a shoulder disarticulation for pain. Intramedullary fixation of pathologic fractures improves the quality of life by controlling pain for most patients. Complications, treatment failures, and pain are related to a 29% rate of tumor progression and a 23% rate of fixation failure. 
Preeclampsia, trisomy 13, and the placental bed. Genetic predisposition and abnormal trophoblastic function are thought to contribute to the development of preeclampsia. A multipara developed severe preeclampsia and subsequently delivered a live growth-retarded infant with trisomy 13. Biopsy of the placental bed taken immediately after delivery demonstrated inadequate trophoblastic remodeling of the maternal uterine vasculature, with an absence of normal physiologic changes in the spiral arteries. This case suggests that fetal trisomy 13 can be associated with preeclampsia in multiparous women and that abnormal trophoblastic invasion may contribute to the pathophysiology. 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial to assess the side effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate in hormone replacement therapy. Cyclic progestin therapy has been widely advocated as an adjunct to postmenopausal estrogen replacement therapy to reduce the risk of endometrial carcinoma. Acceptance of this approach, however, appears to have preceded detailed evaluation of possible adverse side effects of progestins that could result in patient noncompliance. We evaluated the nonmenstrual physical and psychological side effects of oral medroxyprogesterone acetate given in conjunction with transdermal estrogen in two groups of women with previous hysterectomy and oophorectomy. Twenty-four women with prospectively documented severe premenstrual syndrome (PMS) before surgery and 24 women with no such history of adverse premenstrual changes received transdermal estrogen 100 micrograms on days 1-25 and either oral medroxyprogesterone acetate 10 mg daily or an identical placebo (days 12-25) in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over design. Mood and physical symptoms were monitored prospectively, using daily self-ratings on the Daily Symptoms Checklist. The Beck Depression Inventory and Premenstrual Tension Self-Rating Scale were completed on day 24. At the study's completion, the patients were asked which treatment period they preferred. Paired comparisons did not reveal any significant differences, and preference for treatment was equally divided between medroxyprogesterone acetate and placebo. We conclude that addition of medroxyprogesterone acetate 10 mg/day for 14 days to cyclic transdermal estrogen therapy (days 1-25) produces no consistent adverse physical or psychological effects on women for one cycle of treatment, regardless of their PMS history. 
A randomized trial comparing radiation therapy versus concomitant radiation therapy and chemotherapy in carcinoma of the thoracic esophagus. From September 1982 to December 1985, 59 previously untreated patients with Stage II squamous cell carcinoma of the thoracic esophagus were randomly assigned to receive radiation therapy (RT) alone versus the concomitant use of RT and chemotherapy (CT) with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), mitomycin C, and bleomycin (RT + CT). Thirty-one patients were randomized to the RT regimen and 28 to the RT + CT regimen. The complete local response rate was 58% for the RT group and 75% for the RT + CT group (P = 0.77). The median duration of response was 8 months for both groups. The overall 5-year survival rates were 6% and 16% (P = 0.16) for the RT and RT + CT groups, respectively. Acute toxicities were more pronounced in the RT + CT group. This clinical trial did not detect a difference in outcome with combined-technique therapy. This result must be interpreted with caution because of the small number of patients entered in this trial. Confirmation of the value or lack of value for combined therapy will require additional larger clinical trials. 
Characterization of in vitro chemosensitivity of perioperative human ovarian malignancies by adenosine triphosphate chemosensitivity assay. We report the in vitro chemosensitivity of primary and recurrent human ovarian tumor samples analyzed by adenosine triphosphate chemosensitivity assay. We defined sensitivity as a greater than or equal to 70% decrease in intracellular adenosine triphosphate versus control at 20% of the reported peak plasma concentration per agent tested. Twenty of 21 assays (95.24%) were completed successfully. Single-agent and combined dose-response patterns consisting of decreasing viability with increasing drug concentration were observed consistently. Thirteen primary tumors were assayed, with 15.4% sensitive to cisplatin, 7.7% sensitive to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide and 53.8% sensitive to their combination. Seven recurrent tumors were assayed, with 14.3% sensitive to cisplatin, 28.6% sensitive to 5-fluorouracil, and 42.9% sensitive to their combination. Dose-response characteristics and in vitro sensitivity rates reported in this article are consistent with reports of patient response in the literature. We conclude that adenosine triphosphate chemosensitivity assay is an efficient and reliable instrument for the in vitro chemosensitivity assessment of human tumors and warrants further clinical investigation. 
The abdomen, thigh, and arm as sites for subcutaneous sodium heparin injections. The purpose of this study was to evaluate three subcutaneous injection sites for low-dose heparin therapy (5,000 units). One hundred and one subjects were randomly placed in one of three groups. Group A received injections in the abdomen, Group B, in the thigh, and Group C in the arm. Each subject received three injections at the one site. Activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) was measured prior to initiation of heparin and again four hours after the first injection. Bruising was measured at 48, 60, and 72 hours postinjection. There were no statistically significant differences among groups for either changes in APTT or bruising at 60 and 72 hours postinjection. Thus the clinical practice of utilizing the abdomen as the only or preferred site for subcutaneous heparin injections was not supported. 
Open surgery assisted by the neuronavigator, a stereotactic, articulated, sensitive arm. A new computed tomographic-stereotactic device that translates the operating point onto preoperative computed tomographic (CT) images, the Neuronavigator, has been developed. We have applied this system to various neurosurgical procedures to examine its usefulness. The system consists of a 6-joint sensing arm and a 16-bit personal computer. It projects the location of the arm tip onto a corresponding CT slice with a cursor that guides the surgeon toward the intracranial target during open surgery. The system also projects the location of the tip onto angiograms, and when used in conjunction with echography or a transcranial Doppler (TCD) flow meter, the surgeon's ability to navigate is enhanced. Sixty-eight patients underwent operation with the Neuronavigator. The navigation system worked as the core of a multimodal three-dimensional data base that proved to be useful during surgery. The maximum detection error was 2.5 mm, which was considered sufficient for open microsurgery. It also proved useful in designing the position of a craniotomy, in targeting deep-seated mass lesions, and in tracing the tumor edge, which had been identified on a CT scan. When the angiogram was combined with the navigator, it became easy to identify key vessels within a small operating field. The system was also combined with a TCD flow meter. This combination makes it possible to translate the measuring point of the TCD directly into CT coordinates, improving the precision of location of the TCD probe. The Neuronavigator combines various diagnostic images into one database and effectively guides the surgeon during surgery. 
Can anxiety help us tolerate pain? It was hypothesized that anxiety which is relevant to the source of pain exacerbates pain, whereas anxiety which is irrelevant to the source of pain reduces the experience of pain. Female subjects were given either high or low anxiety provoking information about a cold pressor task (relevant anxiety) or high or low anxiety provoking information about a potential shock (irrelevant anxiety). Subjects were then exposed to the cold pressor. The results demonstrated that subjects who were highly anxious about the cold pressor reported experiencing the most pain. Subjects who were highly anxious about the shock reported the least pain and reported significantly less pain than subjects who were highly anxious about the cold pressor. These findings clearly demonstrate that the relationship between anxiety and pain is not always positive or unidirectional. 
Von Hippel-Lindau disease and erythrocytosis: radioimmunoassay of erythropoietin in cyst fluid from a brainstem hemangioblastoma. A 59-year-old woman with von Hippel-Lindau disease developed erythrocytosis and a recurrent intracranial hemangioblastoma. Radioimmunoassay showed an elevated level of erythropoietin in her serum. Cyst fluid from the tumor also contained erythropoietin, concentrated a thousandfold relative to the serum level. Production of erythropoietin by hemangioblastomas may explain the erythrocytosis present in some patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease. 
One hundred ten consecutive primary orthotopic liver transplants under FK 506 in adults. An account is given of the 6- to 12-month survival, and causes of failure in 110 consecutive patients who underwent primary liver transplantation under treatment from the outset with FK 506 and steroids. The patient survival is 92.7%, and the first graft survival is 87.3%. At a very high frequency, the patients achieved good graft function, and they had a relatively low morbidity that was partially ascribable to minimal use and early discontinuance (in 60% of cases) of steroids. Renal dysfunction and other adverse findings were largely confined to patients with poor initial graft function and consequent apparent alteration of the kinetics of FK 506 elimination, causing functional overdosage. Results compare very favorably with our past record using conventional immunosuppression, and support the belief that FK 506 is a superior immunosuppressive agent which is suitable for chronic administration. 
Alcohol consumption of patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias other than atrial fibrillation. We studied the recent alcohol consumption and other possible precipitating factors in 99 consecutive patients (53 men and 46 women) all under 65 years of age with sustained re-entry and automatic supraventricular tachyarrhythmias and compared them with those of two groups of controls. One control group was derived from the Emergency Room patients and matched for age and sex; the other group (44 men, 22 women, mean age 48.7 years) was randomly selected from the general out-of-hospital population. There were 50 patients with supraventricular tachycardia, 30 with atrial flutter, and 19 with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia. Coronary heart disease (14% of patients), hypertension (10%), and dilated cardiomyopathy (6%) were the most prevalent cardiovascular diseases associated with the arrhythmias. The self-reported alcohol consumption of patients with arrhythmias during the week preceding the arrhythmia did not differ significantly from that of hospital or population controls, although significantly more patients than controls had liver enzyme levels above normal; neither were there any significant differences between the groups regarding prevalence for alcoholism as judged by the CAGE questionnaire. The results were essentially similar when patients with supraventricular tachycardia and those with intra-atrial tachyarrhythmias (flutter and paroxysmal tachycardia) were separately compared with the controls. We conclude that alcohol consumption, although a risk factor for atrial fibrillation, is not associated with the induction of other supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients of working age. 
Intensive combination chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation leads to the reappearance of Philadelphia chromosome-negative cells in chronic myelogenous leukemia. Fifteen patients with Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) who were ineligible for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or alpha-interferon therapy were included in this study. Eight patients were in the first late chronic phase, five were in the second chronic phase, one was in the accelerated phase, and one was in the blastic phase. Autologous bone marrow cells (median, 2.5 x 10(8) nucleated cells/kg) were stored at a median of 30 months after diagnosis. Patients were treated with cyclophosphamide (1.5 g/m2 daily for 4 days), carmustine (BCNU) (300 mg/m2), and etoposide (VP-16) (250 mg/m2 daily for 3 days) (CBV), followed by reinfusion of autologous bone marrow. Hematopoietic recovery was rapid, and toxicity was mild to moderate in 14 patients. One patient died of cytomegalovirus pneumonitis. Eight of 15 patients showed Ph suppression to less than 90% Ph-positive metaphases after autologous BMT. Major cytogenetic responses (Ph suppression to less than 35% Ph-positive metaphases) developed in four patients. Cytogenetic responses were observed in 4 of 11 patients infused with 100% Ph-positive marrows, and in all 4 patients infused with Ph-mosaic marrows (mixture of diploid and Ph-positive cells). Better results were observed when autologous BMT was performed in the chronic phase compared with the advanced phases. The major cytogenetic responses have lasted for 3, 4, 12, and 15+ months, whereas minor cytogenetic responses lasted for only a short time (less than 2 months). Three of seven patients (43%) in the chronic phase with previous resistance to alpha-interferon therapy became sensitive to alpha-interferon therapy after autologous BMT. The authors concluded that intensive chemotherapy followed by autologous BMT produced cytogenetic remissions in patients with Ph-positive CML and reinduced disease sensitivity to alpha-interferon therapy in patients previously resistant to it. This is particularly useful when treatment is given during the chronic phase and stem cells are collected at a time of previous cytogenetic remission. 
Progressive myoclonic ataxia (the Ramsay Hunt syndrome). It has been suggested from studies of patients with progressive myoclonus epilepsy that the term Ramsay Hunt syndrome should be abandoned, as its use has led to nosologic confusion, and because, in the light of modern diagnostic techniques, the majority of cases can be allocated to specific disease categories, chiefly, Unverricht-Lundborg disease (Baltic myoclonus) and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy. Review of 30 cases of this syndrome, defined as progressive ataxia and myoclonus and infrequent seizures in the absence of dementia, showed that a clinical or biochemically supported diagnosis could not be made in 43%. This low diagnostic yield probably reflects differences in ascertainment of patients; those described here were referred with a syndrome of progressive myoclonic ataxia (the Ramsay Hunt syndrome) rather than progressive myoclonus epilepsy. These two syndromes share common causes, but a smaller proportion of patients with progressive myoclonic ataxia can currently be diagnosed precisely during life. 
Tetanic response of the cricothyroid muscle. Tetanic response of canine cricothyroid muscle tissue was investigated through a series of experiments conducted in vitro. Two separate portions of the cricothyroid muscle, namely the pars recta and pars oblique, were studied. Samples of the muscle were dissected from dog larynges excised a few minutes before death and kept in Krebs-Ringer solution at a temperature of 37 degrees +/- 1 degrees C and a pH of 7.4 +/- 0.05. Tetanic contraction of the muscle samples was obtained by field stimulation to the muscle through a pair of parallel-plate platinum electrodes and with a train of square pulses of 0.1-millisecond duration and 85-V amplitude. Isometric force responses of the pars recta and pars oblique muscles were obtained electronically with a dual servo system (ergometer). The effect of tissue elongation on the active and passive responses was quantified by stimulation of the sample during cyclic elongation. Both active and passive responses as a function of elongation were obtained on the same sample. 
Clinical symptoms in young adults with atypical chest pain attending the emergency department. Clinical symptoms were studied in 69 consecutive patients below the age of 40 years who were attending the emergency unit because of unexplained chest pain. In a structured interview a few weeks after the emergency visit, only one-third of the patients reported that they believed in the doctor's diagnosis; they believed in a psychological or cardiac origin of the pain more often than the doctors. The chest pain was most often described as oppressive and/or stabbing. In 95% of cases it was central or left-sided. Associated symptoms were commonly reported, breathlessness being most commonly reported by two-thirds of the patients, followed by dizziness, palpitation and numbness/tingling. Mental symptoms such as tiredness, anxiety and tension were frequently reported. On the basis of the background literature the aetiology is discussed. We conclude that immediate symptom analysis, including psychosomatic symptoms, particularly breathing problems, is of central importance. 
Failure of infection control in intensive care units: can sucralfate improve the situation? Conventional infection control measures in intensive care units (ICUs) are aimed primarily at stemming cross-infections. The role of patients' endogenous flora in the pathogenesis of nosocomial infection and occasional lapses in aseptic technique in ICUs help to explain the frequent failure of the conventional approaches. Newer control strategies include avoiding gastric and oropharyngeal overgrowth of gram-negative bacilli by using sucralfate to avoid gastric alkalinization and/or suppressing nosocomial flora by use of topical antimicrobials. 
Shower versus sink bath: evaluation of heart rate, blood pressure, and subjective response of the patient with myocardial infarction. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of a sitting shower versus a sitting sink bath in low-risk patients with myocardial infarction (MI). Heart rate, blood pressure (mean blood pressure and rate-pressure-product), ratings of perceived exertion, and occurrence of symptoms during the baths and between resting, bathing, and recovery periods were evaluated. Thirty patients with MI were tested during their first and second self-bath on 2 consecutive days between 2 and 9 days after MI. The bathing methods produced significant increases from the resting values in all the variables (p less than or equal to 0.05). No significant differences between the resting and recovery values existed (p greater than 0.05). Ten subjects experienced atypical responses to bathing as indicated by heart rate and blood pressures. Fatigue was the most frequently encountered symptom at rest and during the bathing activities. The findings suggest that low-risk patients with MI can choose between a sitting sink bath or a sitting shower as their first self-bath after MI, based on preferences. However, because the bathing activity (and not the bathing method) did produce some atypical responses in one third of the subjects, readiness to engage in bathing activities should be individually assessed by objective and subjective criteria. 
Functional myocardial impairment in children treated with anthracyclines for cancer. A non-invasive exercise method was used to look for myocardial damage in apparently normal children who had received moderate doses of anthracyclines for treatment of cancer. 19 children (mean [SD] age 10.6 [4.3] years) who had received anthracyclines (mean total dose 230 [119] mg/m2) and 10 who had received other cytotoxic drugs (mean age 13.3 [4.9] years) were selected from 263 children attending routine follow-up examinations. They underwent measurement of heart rate, blood pressure, and left ventricular dimensions by echocardiography before and after exercise on a bicycle for a maximum of 10 min. All 29 were in remission. All the subjects showed normal fractional shortening (FS = left ventricular end-diastolic minus end-systolic diameter as a percentage of the end-diastolic diameter) at rest, but the increase in FS on exercise was significantly lower in the children who had received anthracyclines than in those who had not (3 [16]% vs 23 [17]%; p less than 0.05). This difference remained significant after adjustment for age and drug exposure. However, there were no significant differences between the groups in the adjusted mean percentage changes on exercise in heart rate or systolic or diastolic blood pressure. Disease type had no effect on the cardiological indices. Thus, many children who have received anthracyclines may have suffered subclinical myocardial damage. Post-exercise echocardiography seems a useful non-invasive method for detecting such damage. Long-term cardiological follow-up of these patients is needed. 
Intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm presenting as recurrent epistaxis. Massive epistaxis from a leaking intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm is a rare occurrence. Such an unusual case is presented with appropriate imaging and a successful treatment program. 
Pharmacology of the nitrovasodilators. Antianginal, antihypertensive, and antiplatelet actions. The nitrovasodilators, nitroglycerin and sodium nitroprusside, cause both arterial and venous smooth muscle dilation by the intracellular release of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide activates guanylate cyclase, resulting in an accumulation of cyclic GMP. The endogenous formation of nitric oxide results in vasodilatory activity similar to the nitrovasodilators. Nitroglycerin is commonly used in the treatment of angina pectoris because of its ability to decrease myocardial oxygen consumption. Most likely, this response occurs as a result of a reduction in preload, which can decrease arterial wall tension and improve coronary blood flow. This pharmacologic effect warrants the use of nitroglycerin in the treatment of myocardial ischemia or infarction, congestive heart failure, and hypertension. Sodium nitroprusside is effective in reducing arterial blood pressure in hypertensive crisis as a result of systemic vasodilation leading to a reduction in preload and afterload. Sodium nitroprusside is not as effective in the treatment of angina pectoris or in diminishing of myocardial ischemia because it does not preferentially improve blood flow to ischemic myocardium over nonischemic myocardium. Inhibition of platelet aggregation has been demonstrated with these drugs, but the clinical applications need further investigation. Nursing interventions for the patient on nitrovasodilator therapy include careful hemodynamic monitoring and drug infusion, along with elimination of physical and emotional stimuli that can aggravate the patient's underlying pathology. 
Sudden death due to disease flare with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy for carcinoma of the prostate. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy for prostate cancer is a new method of management for metastatic disease. During the initial 1 to 2-week period of administration an increase in serum testosterone concentration can lead to an exacerbation of clinical symptoms (flare phenomenon). Two patients are summarized who received luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy without flare blockade and died suddenly during month 1 of therapy. A review of 765 patients in 9 series found 10.9% who suffered disease flare and 15 who died during disease flare. Of these 17 patients 12 were similar to our 2. These data suggest that any patient placed on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist therapy for prostate cancer merits some form of flare blockade during the initial 1 or 2 months of therapy. 
Acute central nervous system complications after pulse steroid therapy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. We describe 2 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) who developed an acute psychosis and a cerebrovascular accident after pulse methylprednisolone therapy. A literature review revealed 8 additional patients with SLE with acute central nervous system complications after pulse therapy. 
Vascular complications of cardiac catheterization. Femoral artery injury after diagnostic and therapeutic cardiac catheterization is a frequently encountered clinical problem. This study reviews 150 femoral artery injuries that occurred in 16,350 patients over a 5-year period. A prospective computerized cardiac catheterization data bank was used to determine significant risk factors associated with the occurrence of vascular injury. Logistic regression analysis revealed that congestive heart failure, female gender, and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or valvuloplasty procedure were significantly associated with occurrence of vascular injury. Greater age, smaller body surface area, and smaller weight were also associated with injury. Recommendations for management include an aggressive approach to obstruction even if local vascular reconstruction is required. False aneurysms are studied by ultrasonography, and small ones may be observed expectantly. Larger aneurysms and aneurysms that persist beyond a few days are managed by use of general or regional anesthesia and by gaining proximal control of the iliac artery. Arteriovenous fistulas resulting from catheterization are rarely hemodynamically significant and often close spontaneously. Thus repair should be delayed. 
Malignant astrocytomas: focal tumor recurrence after focal external beam radiation therapy. Hochberg and Pruitt have reported glioblastomas recurring within 2 cm of the primary site in 90% of patients after whole-brain radiation therapy. They suggested that computerized tomography (CT) scan accuracy would permit smaller radiation fields. A treatment protocol with smaller-field focal brain irradiation following surgical resection is reported. The first 4500 cGy of radiation is focused to within a 3-cm margin around the tumor, with a 1500-cGy boost within a 1.5-cm margin. Forty-two patients with grade III or IV astrocytoma, treated with focal brain radiation therapy were reviewed retrospectively to assess patterns of tumor recurrence. Thirty patients received intra-arterial bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR) radiosensitization with focal brain radiation therapy, and 12 patients underwent conventional focal brain radiation therapy. Tumor margin was defined on preoperative and recurrence CT scans as the contrast-enhanced area; these were traced on acetate templates and compared with each other and with the actual scans. In all 42 patients, the lesion recurred within a 2-cm margin of the original tumor. Four patients had two recurrent areas: the second area was within the 2-cm margin in two, and outside this margin in two. These results are similar to those of Hochberg and Pruitt. It is suggested that focal irradiation is now the optimal treatment for malignant astrocytoma. Since recurrences continue to be within the irradiated volumes, it appears that higher focal doses of radiation are appropriate for clinical treatment trials of malignant astrocytomas. 
Abnormal vitamin B12 metabolism in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Association with neurological dysfunction. An increased prevalence of vitamin B12 deficiency has been reported in patients infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). We report an unexpectedly high prevalence (20%) of such abnormal vitamin B12 metabolism in a population of HIV-infected patients referred for neurological evaluation. This abnormality was associated with both peripheral neuropathy and myelopathy. A majority of those treated with cyanocobalamin had a therapeutic response. Selected neuropathological results suggest a relationship between vitamin B12 deficiency and vacuolar myelopathy. Vitamin B12 deficiency may be a frequent and treatable cause of neurological dysfunction in patients with HIV infection. 
Photodynamic killing of human squamous cell carcinoma cells using a monoclonal antibody-photosensitizer conjugate. We have developed procedures in which the photosensitizer benzoporphyrin derivative monoacid ring A (BPD) can be covalently linked to carrier molecules of modified polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) to produce water-soluble PVA-BPD conjugates with a molecular mass in the range of 30 kd. These carriers can subsequently be covalently linked to monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) using heterobifunctional linking agents. We describe here such a conjugate in which the MoAb (5E8) has specificity for a glycoprotein detected on human squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. We provide evidence that the conjugates produced were covalently linked and retained both their photosensitizing and antigen-binding activities. We show further that the MoAb-PVA-BPD conjugate, in the presence of 10% fetal calf serum, exhibited highly enhanced phototoxic killing of the target cell line (A549) over that exhibited by free BPD or a control MoAb-PVA-BPD conjugate. These results demonstrate, therefore, both the selectivity and specificity of this MoAb conjugate. 
An in vivo model of experimental arterial stenosis, intimal damage, and periodic thrombosis. Coronary artery bypass grafts, angioplasty, and thrombolysis are beneficial procedures for patients with coronary artery disease. However, these procedures can fail by mechanisms related to interactions between platelets and the damaged arterial wall. An experimental model for studying some of the mechanisms of platelet interaction with endothelial- and medial-damaged stenosed arteries is described. Dogs or pigs are anesthetized, and the chest opened. The heart is exposed, the circumflex or left anterior descending coronary artery is dissected out, and an EMF or Doppler flow probe is placed on it. Distal to the flow probe, the artery is clamped with a vascular clamp to produce endothelial and/or medial injury. Then, an encircling plastic cylinder is placed around the outside of the injured artery, producing a "critical stenosis." Acute platelet thrombus formation begins to occur in the stenosed lumen, gradually increasing the amount of stenosis. This causes the coronary flow to decline and reach zero flow when the artery is completely occluded. Then, the thrombus is embolized into the distal circulation, and flow is restored to normal levels. This occurs repeatedly causing cyclic flow reductions (CFRs). These CFRs can be made larger and to occur more frequently by increasing in vivo platelet activity, by raising the plasma catecholamine levels, or by increasing the collagen exposed in the stenosed lumen by increased medial damage. If an effective dose of an antiplatelet agent is given, the CFRs will be decreased in size and frequency or abolished entirely. Aspirin and other agents abolish the CFRs in this model; however, CFRs can be renewed by infusions of catecholamines or platelet activating factor. Thus, the model may be useful for studying mechanisms that enhance or inhibit arterial thrombosis in stenosed arteries with endothelial and medial injury. 
Growth hormone treatment of growth failure secondary to total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation. Growth hormone was given to 13 children (nine boys, four girls) with acute leukaemia who had undergone treatment with cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation before bone marrow transplantation. Mean age at total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation was 9.0 years (range 3.7-15.8). Endocrinological investigation was carried out at a mean of 2.0 years (range 0.4-4.0) after bone marrow transplantation. Peak serum growth hormone responses to hypoglycaemia were less than 10.0 micrograms/l (less than 20.0 mU/l) in 10, 10.5 micrograms/l (21.0 mU/l) in one, greater than 16.0 micrograms/l (greater than 32.0 mU/l) in two patients. Mean age of the patients at the start of growth hormone treatment was 12.2 years (range 5.8-18.2). The mean time between total body irradiation and bone marrow transplantation and the start of growth hormone treatment was 3.2 years (range, 1.1-5.0). Height velocity SD score (SD) increased from a mean pretreatment value of -1.27 (0.65) to + 0.22 (0.81) in the first year, +0.16 (1.11) in the second year, and +0.42 (0.71) in the third year of treatment. Height SD score (SD) changed only slightly from -1.52 (0.42) to -1.50 (0.47) in the first year, to -1.50 (0.46) in the second year, and -1.74 (0.92) in the third year. Measurement of segmental proportions showed no significant increase in subischial leg length from -0.87 (0.67) to -0.63 (0.65) in the first year, to -0.58 (0.70) in the second year, and -0.80 (1.14) in the third year of treatment. 
Disseminated leiomyosarcoma in a child with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A child with disseminated leiomyosarcoma and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is reported. She was originally believed to have peptic ulcer disease by radiographic and endoscopic evaluation but was found subsequently to have hypergastrinemia, hypochlorhydria, and a smooth muscle tumor. Leiomyosarcoma in children and its evolution in AIDS are discussed. 
Improvement of cyclosporin absorption in children after liver transplantation by means of water-soluble vitamin E. Many childhood recipients of liver transplantation require massive doses of cyclosporin to achieve therapeutic blood concentrations of the drug. The impaired absorption of this strongly lipophilic drug may be due to reduced intestinal absorptive area, suboptimal mixing of the drug with hepatobiliary secretions, or residual cholestasis. Improvement of cyclosporin absorption was sought by means of oral coadministration of d-alpha-tocopheryl-polyethylene-glycol-1000 succinate (TPGS), a water-soluble form of vitamin E which can form micelles. 25 mg/kg daily of TPGS was given to six paediatric liver transplant recipients and one young adult with severe hepatobiliary graft-vs-host disease after bone-marrow transplantation, who required 29-136 mg/kg cyclosporin daily to achieve therapeutic cyclosporin blood concentrations. Five responded; the oral cyclosporin dose could be reduced by 40-72% within 2 months. In addition, intravenous cyclosporin was stopped in two of the responders. In the two non-responders the cyclosporin doses at entry were similar to those in the responders after TPGS treatment. Oral cyclosporin absorption tests correctly predicted the outcome of treatment in three responders and one non-responder tested. Treatment with TPGS to enhance cyclosporin absorption might be a useful way of reducing the high cost of immunosuppression in paediatric liver transplant recipients. 
Effect of coronary reocclusion after initial reperfusion on ventricular function and infarct size. Reocclusion of a coronary artery after thrombolytic therapy occurs in approximately 12% to 33% of patients; however, there are few experimental data concerning reocclusion. Accordingly, to compare the effects of reocclusion versus sustained occlusion on the myocardium, a canine model (n = 12) of 2 h of left circumflex artery occlusion, 1 h of reperfusion and 1 h of reocclusion was studied. In a control group (n = 11), 3 h of circumflex artery occlusion was followed by 1 h of reperfusion. As a result, both groups had the same total duration of ischemia (3 h) and reperfusion (1 h). Hemodynamic measurements, radioactive microsphere injections and two-dimensional echocardiography were performed at baseline, occlusion and reperfusion for both groups and at the end of reocclusion for the experimental group. In vivo risk area was determined with Evans blue dye and infarct size with triphenyltetrazolium staining methods. Similar decreases in myocardial blood flow after coronary occlusion and similar reperfusion blood flows occurred in both groups. Despite intervening reperfusion in the reocclusion group, no significant difference was found in the infarct size/risk area ratio between the reocclusion and control groups (54.5 +/- 6.9% vs. 48.4 +/- 5.1%, respectively, p = NS). Two-dimensional echocardiography demonstrated a similar degree and extent (159 +/- 9 degrees vs. 153 +/- 12 degrees, p = NS) of left ventricular dysfunction with both the occlusion and reocclusion. In addition, there were no significant differences in global or regional left ventricular function between the two groups. However, reocclusion after reperfusion did produce a further deterioration in ischemic zone wall thickening (9.5 +/- 2.0% to 0.7 +/- 1.8%, p less than 0.001). 
Hepatocellular carcinoma: treatment with a combination therapy of transcatheter arterial embolization and percutaneous ethanol injection. In an attempt to obtain complete tumor necrosis in large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) lesions, the authors studied the clinical and histologic findings of a new combination therapy, percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) with transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) (pretreatment with TAE and subsequent PEI) in 15 patients with a single, large (3.0-9.0 cm in diameter), encapsulated lesion of HCC. Two weeks after TAE, PEI was performed under ultrasound guidance. A total of four to 11 injections were administered at a rate of one injection twice a week. During the follow-up period (range, 7-23 months), all lesions were reduced in size and no evidence of HCC was present at contrast material-enhanced computed tomography or angiography in nine of 11 patients who did not subsequently undergo surgery. Six patients had a follow-up of 1 year or more, for a 1-year survival rate of 100%. Four patients subsequently underwent surgical resection; complete necrosis of the tumor was observed in all four. The authors conclude that a combination of PEI and TAE is an appropriate treatment for patients with large, encapsulated HCC lesions who are poor surgical risks. 
Simultaneous in situ genotyping and phenotyping of human papillomavirus cervical lesions: comparative sensitivity and specificity. The sensitivity and specificity of immunocytochemistry were compared with those of non-isotopic in situ hybridisation (NISH) for the direct detection of human papillomaviruses in biopsy specimens. Four monoclonal antibodies raised to the capsid protein of HPV16 were less specific than NISH: all four reacted with lesions containing HPV33, and HPV18. Absolute discrimination of HPV types, therefore, was not possible with the monoclonal antibodies used in this study. The relative sensitivities of these antibodies were also lower than NISH. Sequential immunocytochemistry and NISH on the same section showed that 2.9-13.0 times as many cells were positive by NISH than by immunocytochemistry using the most sensitive monoclonal antibody. These data indicate that NISH has higher diagnostic specificity and sensitivity than immunocytochemistry using monoclonal antibodies to the HPV16 capsid protein. 
Intestinal mucosal permeability in inflammatory rheumatic diseases. II. Role of disease. Gut permeability as measured by the 51Cr-EDTA resorption test was determined in 56 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 73 patients with spondyloarthropathies (SpA), 18 patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and 97 controls (42 patients with no inflammatory rheumatic diseases and 55 healthy controls). Gut permeability was found to be increased in the 3 patient groups, partially due to the intake of antiinflammatory drugs. When only patients not taking these drugs were considered, an increased gut permeability was found in patients with SpA and IBD. In patients with RA gut permeability could not be evaluated as they were all taking antiinflammatory medication. Ileocolonoscopy with biopsies of the gut was performed in 62 of the 73 patients with SpA and disclosed subclinical gut inflammation in 21. No difference in gut permeability was found between patients with or without gut inflammation. However, when the type of gut inflammation was considered, a significant increase of gut permeability was found in patients with chronic gut inflammation compared with patients presenting acute lesions. Our findings again suggest that the chronic gut inflammation seen in SpA is fundamentally different from acute gut inflammation and possibly related to the gut inflammation of IBD. 
Positron emission tomography of pituitary macroadenomas: hormone production and effects of therapies. Positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was carried out in 24 patients with pituitary macroadenomas (32 studies) to assess the glucose utilization of these tumors in vivo. The adenoma metabolic index, which is the ratio of FDG uptake of tumor to a whole brain slice, was calculated. Comparisons were made between tumor uptake of FDG and hormone secretion and response to therapies. In each positron emission tomography study, the macroadenoma could be easily identified visually as an area of increased FDG uptake near the region of the sella. FDG uptakes were highest for nonfunctional adenomas, and the prolactin, growth hormone, and thyroid-stimulating hormone-producing groups displayed similar levels of glucose metabolism. The adenoma metabolic index for all tumors averaged 1.3, ranging from 0.3 for a thyroid-stimulating hormone adenoma to 3.5 for a nonfunctional tumor. Tumors did not exhibit metabolic rates that could characterize the type of hormone produced. Recurrent macroadenomas displayed metabolism similar to tumors not operated on, whereas irradiated adenomas showed lower glucose uptake than nonirradiated tumors. Drug therapy with bromocriptine or the long-acting somatostatin analogue octreotide also decreased the glucose utilization of the tumor. There was no correlation between the amount of hormone produced and the adenoma metabolic index when a group of tumors was analyzed. Patients scanned more than once, however, demonstrated changes in hormone levels that changed or did not change in parallel with tumor metabolism. Thus, positron emission tomography offers the potential capability for predicting and defining the growth of pituitary adenomas. This may be of particular value when plasma hormone assays and conventional imaging techniques prove inadequate for monitoring patient response to therapy. 
Hypertonic saline dextran resuscitation during the initial phase of acute endotoxemia: effect on regional blood flow. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Small-volume resuscitation by means of bolus application of hypertonic saline solutions has been demonstrated to restore central hemodynamics and regional blood flow in severe hemorrhagic and traumatic shock. The aim of this study was to elucidate the potential of this new concept for treatment of profound hypovolemia and microcirculatory deterioration associated with sepsis and endotoxic shock. In a porcine model of acute hyperdynamic endotoxemia (elicited by continuous iv infusion of Salmonella abortus equi endotoxin for 3.5 hrs), small-volume resuscitation applying hypertonic-hyperoncotic solutions was analyzed for its effect on central hemodynamics, oxygen delivery (Do2), and regional blood flow. Fluid therapy was initiated when the pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) tended to decrease (at 43 to 52 mins of endotoxemia), and consisted of 4 mL/kg bolus infusion of either 7.2% sodium chloride, 10% dextran, or 10% dextran in 7.2% sodium chloride; thereafter, PAOP was maintained by controlled infusion of 6% dextran-60. In a control group, 6% dextran-60 was given without preinjection of hypertonic-hyperoncotic solutions. RESULTS: On small-volume resuscitation, cardiac index significantly increased within 5 mins in all groups, while mean arterial pressure remained unchanged. Fluid requirements were significantly reduced after small-volume resuscitation and the hyperdynamic circulatory state was maintained until the end of the observation period; Do2 as well as blood flow to heart, kidneys, and splanchnic organs remained high. CONCLUSION: Small-volume resuscitation by means of hypertonic saline-dextran proved the most effective, and seems to be an attractive supportive therapy to prevent microcirculatory failure in sepsis and endotoxemia. 
The importance of preoperative evaluation of the subclavian vein in dialysis access planning. Adequate venous outflow is critical to the proper function of a vascular-access graft (arteriovenous fistula) used for chronic hemodialysis. Stenosis of the subclavian vein can significantly compromise this venous outflow. The development of such subclavian vein stenoses has been associated with the prior placement of temporary subclavian vein dialysis catheters. We evaluated the importance of preoperative detection of these stenoses before placement of a permanent vascular-access graft in the upper extremity. Upper extremity venography was performed before placement of a permanent vascular-access graft in 43 patients. A total of 62 extremities were evaluated. A 40% prevalence of moderate or severe subclavian vein stenosis was found in patients with prior or existing temporary dialysis catheters in the subclavian vein. No stenoses were found in patients without a history of dialysis catheters in the subclavian vein. This difference in the prevalence of subclavian vein stenosis is statistically significant (p less than .001). In no case was the stenosis suspected clinically. Before placement of a permanent vascular-access graft, the subclavian vein should be evaluated in all patients with a history of a temporary dialysis catheter in the subclavian vein. The use of sites other than the subclavian vein for temporary dialysis is strongly encouraged. 
Sarcoidosis presenting as an isolated intramedullary tumor. We report a case of isolated intramedullary sarcoidosis. The patient developed progressive signs that indicated a spinal tumor, which were investigated with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans. Magnetic resonance imaging clearly revealed an intramedullary lesion, but the diagnosis of sarcoidosis was made on the pathological analysis of the surgical specimen. Magnetic resonance imaging with contrast enhancement is reported in a histologically proven case of intramedullary sarcoidosis. Only 12 other cases of isolated intramedullary sarcoidosis have been reported. We review and discuss these cases according to their clinical presentation, the segmental location of the granulomas in the spinal cord, preoperative and operative diagnoses, and signs for systemic sarcoidosis. In none of the cases was the diagnosis of intramedullary sarcoidosis made before surgery. We think that surgical therapy for intramedullary lesions is the best way to diagnose rare instances of benign lesions like sarcoidosis and to treat them in an appropriate manner. 
Plasma gastrin and cholecystokinin response after pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy with Billroth-I type of reconstruction. Plasma gastrin and cholecystokinin (CCK) responses were measured after a pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) using the Billroth-I type reconstruction combined with distal partial gastrectomy (standard PD) and combined with preservation of the pylorus and the duodenal bulb (PPPD). Six unoperated patients, 4 men and 2 women, were studied as control subjects. Basal plasma levels of gastrin were significantly higher in controls than in patients who had a standard PD (p less than 0.05) and gastrin responses to a meal were also blunted in these patients. In contrast basal and postprandial levels of gastrin after PPPD were significantly higher than these found in patients with standard PD (p less than 0.05). Postprandial gastrin response after PPPD were similar in pattern to these found in controls. Integrated gastrin release after PPPD was less than that of the control but was significantly greater than that in patients with standard PD. Basal plasma levels of CCK in the patients after the standard PD were significantly lower than in controls and significantly higher postprandial levels of CCK were found after PPPD compared to standard PD (p less than 0.05). However integrated CCK from 0 to 120 minutes were not significantly different between PPPD and standard PD groups. Based on these observations concerning hormonal release of gastrin and CCK, preservation of the stomach and the duodenal bulb appears to be a more physiologic reconstructive procedure than the standard PD. In addition the operation probably has more beneficial effect on the injured pancreas in time. 
Preoperative and postoperative "aneurysm" associated with coarctation of the aorta. The reported incidence of aortic aneurysm after surgical repair or balloon angioplasty for aortic coarctation varies widely. To determine the incidence of aneurysm formation after surgery, preoperative and postoperative cineangiograms from 65 patients who underwent operation at age 1.5 +/- 3.4 years were examined. Repair included a prosthetic patch in 14 patients, end to end anastomosis in 28 and subclavian flap in 23. Aneurysm was documented by change in contour or irregularities in contour at the repair site or by abnormal dimensions at the repair site, defined by the ratio of the widest measurement at the repair site to the measurement of the aorta at the diaphragm. An aneurysmal bulge above the ductus diverticulum was identified in 14 (23%) of 60 patients preoperatively; the area showed no change 4.72 +/- 4.07 years after surgery. Significant changes at the repair site were seen in only three patients, all of whom had Dacron patch repair. One patient had a change in contour at the repair site, one had an abnormally high repair site to diaphragmatic aorta ratio and one had a progressive increase in this ratio. Thus, during childhood years, 3 (5%) of 65 patients were diagnosed as having aneurysm at the surgical repair site. In conclusion, 1) comparison with preoperative cineangiograms, especially for aneurysmal bulges above the ductus arteriosus, is essential before an aneurysm can be attributed to coarctation repair by any technique, and 2) aneurysm developed only in patients subjected to Dacron patch repair. 
Prognostic value of serum creatinine and effect of treatment of hypertension on renal function. Results from the hypertension detection and follow-up program. The Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program Cooperative Group. The Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program followed up 10,940 persons for 5 years in a community-based, randomized, controlled trial of treatment for hypertension. Participants were randomized to one of two treatment groups, stepped care and referred care. The primary end point of the study was all-cause mortality, with morbid events involving the heart, brain, and kidney as secondary end points. Loss of renal function, ascertained by a change in serum creatinine, was among these secondary events. Baseline serum creatinine concentration had a significant prognostic value for 8-year mortality. For persons with a serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 1.7 mg/dl, 8-year mortality was more than three times that of all other participants. The estimated 5-year incidence of substantial decline in renal function was 21.7/1,000 in the stepped-care group and 24.6/1,000 in the referred-care group. Among persons with a baseline serum creatinine level between 1.5 and 1.7 mg/dl, the 5-year incidence of decline was 113.3/1,000 (stepped care) and 226.6/1,000 (referred care) (p less than 0.01). The incidence of decline in renal function was greater in men, blacks, and older adults, as well as in those with higher entry diastolic blood pressure. Among persons with a baseline serum creatinine level greater than or equal to 1.7 mg/dl, serum creatinine concentration declined by 25% or more in 28.6% of stepped-care and 25.2% of referred-care participants. Although the incidence of clinically significant hypercreatininemia in a hypertensive population is low, an elevated serum creatinine concentration is a very potent independent risk factor for mortality. The slightly lower rate of development of hypercreatininemia and the higher rate of improvement in stepped-care compared with referred-care participants is consistent with the belief that aggressive treatment of hypertension may reduce renal damage and the associated increased risk of death. 
Integration of anticoagulation, thrombolysis and coronary angioplasty for unstable angina pectoris. Unstable angina pectoris remains a challenging acute ischemic syndrome to treat despite recent randomized trials that confirm the benefit of intravenous heparin. Coronary angioplasty, which is often required to treat the underlying arterial lesion, is adversely affected by the presence of thrombus with at least a 2-fold increase in abrupt closure. Four studies with heparin treatment prior to angioplasty indicate a reduction of abrupt vessel closure from 8-33% to 0-6% with apparent reduction of morbidity; no controlled trials are thus far available for heparin pretreatment. Another therapeutic alternative, thrombolytic therapy, has had quite equivocal results with several negative small studies. When angioplasty has been performed with thrombolytic therapy, a nonfibrin-specific plasminogen activator appears to be preferable. Newer studies that focus on thrombin inhibitors that bind to clot-bound thrombin and potent antiplatelet agents are in the early phase of clinical investigation. This review offers current recommendations for the integration of heparin, thrombolysis, and coronary angioplasty for unstable angina pectoris. 
DNA flow cytometric evaluation of serous and mucinous cystic neoplasms of the pancreas. There have been few reports of flow cytometric studies of pancreatic neoplasms, whether endocrine or exocrine. In this report, the DNA content of three mucinous and seven serous cystic tumors of the pancreas was evaluated by flow cytometry on formaldehyde solution-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue. Two serous cystadenomas were aneuploid, with the remaining five serous and all three mucinous being diploid. All cases had a low S phase (ranging from 0.1% to 3.1%), indicating neoplasms with a low turnover. From these results, it appeared that DNA flow cytometry as an independent factor did not discriminate between the benign pancreatic serous cystadenomas and the more aggressive mucinous cystic neoplasms. 
Phase I-II trial of pentoxifylline for the prevention of transplant-related toxicities following bone marrow transplantation. Disease relapse and transplant related toxicities have limited the application of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in the treatment for hematologic malignancies. Because elevated levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) have been correlated with the development of transplant related complications, we conducted a phase I-II trial of pentoxifylline (PTX), a xanthine derivative capable of down-regulating TNF-alpha production, in patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing BMT. Thirty consecutive adult patients (median age, 34) were entered and received either an allogeneic (n = 26) or autologous (n = 4) BMT. Patients were enrolled at increasing dose levels (1,200, 1,600, and 2,000 mg/d) from day -10 through day +100 posttransplant. PTX was well tolerated with no significant adverse side effects noted at any of the dose levels administered. The actuarial day 100 survival for these 30 patients was 90% (95% confidence interval 79% to 100%). When compared with a good risk control group, PTX recipients experienced less mucositis (3.7 +/- 1.1 v 18.7 +/- 1.1 days, P = .004), less hepatic venocclusive disease (10% v 65%, P = .001), a lower incidence of renal insufficiency (3% v 65%, P = .0003), required less days of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) (24.0 +/- 1.3 v 35.0 +/- 2.4, P = .001) and were discharged from the hospital earlier than controls (day 26.0 +/- 1.8 v 37.0 +/- 3.8, P = .01). In addition the incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) greater than or equal to grade II was also reduced among the PTX recipients (35% v 68%, P = .03). PTX at doses in excess of 1,200 mg/d further reduced the severity of mucositis, and TPN requirements resulting in earlier hospital discharge than patients receiving 1,200 mg/d of PTX. In this study oral administration of PTX in doses up to 2,000 mg/d was well tolerated and associated with a reduction in morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing BMT. Prospective randomized trials are currently in progress to test these preliminary observations. 
Tumor vascularization: assessment with duplex sonography. In this prospective study, the authors examined 123 patients with benign or malignant neoplasms (breast cancer, n = 44; liver neoplasms, n = 43; and tumors affecting other organs, n = 36) to establish general criteria for evaluation of neoplastic lesions by means of duplex sonography. The frequency shifts determined by means of different Doppler frequencies (2.31 or 3.75 MHz) were converted into flow velocities. Only the highest systolic peak flow velocity obtained from a lesion was used for statistical evaluation. Receiver operating characteristic curves showed that a flow velocity of 0.4 m/sec is the optimal threshold value with which to differentiate benign from malignant tumors. The data obtained in all lesions indicated that only positive findings are potentially reliable. It is concluded that negative results of sonography should not be used to diagnose the presence of a benign lesion. The resistive index of the tumors was of negligible importance. 
Deforming arthropathy complicating primary biliary cirrhosis. A 53-year-old woman with concurrent systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) developed a deforming but minimally symptomatic arthropathy. The simultaneous occurrence of SLE and PBC is believed to be rare. Moreover, destructive arthritis, in the absence of serum rheumatoid factor, has not been previously reported with either disease. We review the association of liver disease with arthritis and propose a possible mechanism to account for the severe joint destruction seen in our patient. 
Evidence for alpha 1-adrenoreceptor hyperresponsiveness in hypotensive cirrhotic patients with ascites. Cirrhosis with ascites is often characterized by arterial hypotension associated with increased plasma norepinephrine levels. Clinical evidence suggests a decreased sensitivity to norepinephrine in this clinical setting, indicating a potential derangement of alpha 1 adrenoreceptors. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the reactivity of the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor, using phenylephrine, a selective alpha 1 receptor agonist. First, we evaluated the pupillar response to the intraconjunctival administration of the agonist. Hypotensive cirrhotic patients showed a trend to a more marked and prolonged response, compared with age-matched healthy controls. Second, we studied the response of alpha 1-adrenoreceptors in the peripheral vasculature by administering iv phenylephrine to a similar group of patients. A significantly greater and longer lasting pressor response was observed in hypotensive cirrhotic patients (p less than 0.0001 vs. healthy controls). Our results indicate that in this group of patients, there is a rather peculiar situation, characterized by alpha 1-adrenoreceptor hyperresponsiveness in the presence of high levels of circulating norepinephrine. This finding could be related to biochemical abnormalities within the peripheral sympathetic nervous system endings. 
Compound heterozygosity in nonphenylketonuria hyperphenylalanemia: the contribution of mutations for classical phenylketonuria. Hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA) results from defective hydroxylation of phenylalanine in the liver, in most cases because of defective phenylalanine hydroxylase. HPA is highly variable, ranging from moderate elevation of plasma phenylalanine with no clinical consequences to a severe disease, classical phenylketonuria (PKU). Non-PKU HPA was found in excess of PKU in Israel, while the opposite is true in Europe. To study the genetic basis of non-PKU HPA, we performed haplotype analysis at the phenylalanine hydroxylase locus in 27 families with non-PKU HPA. All individuals with this condition were compound heterozygotes. In six of these families, in which both PKU and non-PKU HPA were segregating, haplotype analysis showed that non-PKU HPA resulted from compound heterozygosity for a PKU mutation and a second mutation, with milder effect, which is probably expressed only when it interacts with the severe mutation. The involvement of PKU mutations in non-PKU HPA was further demonstrated in Jewish Yemenite families with non-PKU HPA, in which the individuals with this condition were carriers of the single PKU allele which exists in this community. In addition, two previously known PKU point mutations (R261Q and R408W) were found in individuals with non-PKU HPA. These mutations are associated, in our population, with the same haplotypes as those with which it is associated in Europe. Based on the above-mentioned genetic model for non-PKU HPA, successful prenatal diagnosis of this condition was performed in one family. 
In vivo pharmacology of DuP 753. A review of the in vivo pharmacology of DuP 753 (2-n-butyl-4-chloro-5-hydroxymethyl-1-[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphen yl-4- yl)methyl]imidazole, potassium salt) is presented. In the pithed rat, DuP 753 exerted a selective and competitive inhibition of the pressor response to angiotensin II (AII). In conscious normotensive rats, DuP 753 inhibited the AII-induced aldosterone secretion and drinking response. DuP 753 lowered blood pressure in conscious normotensive rats pretreated with furosemide but not in untreated normotensive rats. Unlike saralasin, DuP 753 given intravenously did not cause pressor response. In conscious renal hypertensive rats (RHRs), a high renin model, DuP 753 decreased blood pressure with an intravenous ED30 of 0.78 mg/kg and an oral ED30 of 0.59 mg/kg. The antihypertensive efficacy of DuP 753 in RHRs was similar to that of captopril. In DOCA hypertensive rats, a low renin model, DuP 753 did not lower blood pressure. In conscious 18- to 21-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), DuP 753 given orally or intravenously reduced blood pressure dose-dependently and did not alter heart rate at these doses. The acute antihypertensive efficacy of DuP 753 was greater than that of captopril in SHRs. In contrast, DuP 753 and captopril given orally at 10 mg/kg/day for 15 days in SHRs caused a similar decrease in blood pressure. Bilateral nephrectomy but not inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis abolished the antihypertensive effect of DuP 753 in SHRs. Our study, therefore, indicates that DuP 753 is an orally active, nonpeptide, selective, and competitive AII receptor antagonist lacking agonism. It appears that there is a relationship between basal renin level and the acute antihypertensive effect of DuP 753 in rats. Further, our results suggest that the renin-angiotensin system plays a significant role in the control of blood pressure in conscious SHRs. 
Intermediate term results of infant orthotopic cardiac transplantation from two centers. Orthotopic cardiac transplantation has become established for selected infants with severe forms of congenital heart disease. This study reviews the combined experience and intermediate term results of infants undergoing orthotopic cardiac transplantation from Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, and Kosair Children's Hospital, Louisville. From June 1986 through December 1989, 20 orthotopic cardiac transplantations were performed in 19 patients. Sixteen patients had variants of hypoplastic left heart syndrome. One infant had anomalous origin of the left coronary artery with severe ischemic cardiomyopathy. Two infants had aortic stenosis with endocardial fibroelastosis, and one had extracorporeal membrane oxygenation as a bridge to transplantation. Immunosuppression included cyclosporine, azathioprine (Imuran), and corticosteroids with an effort to wean the patients from steroids by 6 months to 2 years. Three early deaths resulted--from technical errors in two patients and from hyperacute rejection in one patient at 3 days. Four late deaths have occurred. Two patients died at 2 and 13 months of acute rejection. One patient died at 15 months of acute rejection after retransplantation. One patient died at 7 months of respiratory syncytial viral pneumonia. The remaining 12 patients are surviving 5 to 47 months (means 20 months) after orthotopic cardiac transplantation. Rejection surveillance in the first 6 months is by clinical signs supplemented by echocardiography, electrocardiography, and cell cycle analysis; endomyocardial biopsy is used after 6 months of age. For the cumulative series, 24 episodes of suspected rejection have been treated during 277 at-risk patient months with intravenous methylprednisolone (Solu-Medrol) (n = 18) and monoclonal antibody (OKT3) (n = 6), for an incidence of 1.04 episodes of rejection per patient per year. Serious posttransplantation infections including endocarditis, catheter sepsis, meningitis, and colonic perforation were successfully treated in four patients. Subjectively, their quality of life is excellent as shown by normal growth and developmental milestones and a low hospital readmission rate (1.4 episodes per patient per year). These encouraging intermediate term results warrant continued application of infant orthotopic cardiac transplantation for severe forms of congenital heart disease. 
Urinary tract calculi that form on surgical staples: a characteristic radiologic appearance. An autostapler is frequently used when bowel is interposed in the urinary tract during reconstructive urologic surgery in children. Usually the metallic staples are buried beneath the intestinal mucosa. However, if a portion of a staple is unintentionally left exposed or becomes exposed through migration and is then bathed by urine, it can become the nidus for formation of a calculus. The radiologic studies of 30 patients having surgery of this type in our hospital from 1980 to 1990 were reviewed prospectively, and stones were found to have developed on staples in eight patients. None of the patients had metabolic abnormalities. The stones were easily visible on plain radiographs because they were calcified. They formed in the lumen of the bladder or the bowel segment on the exposed portion of the staple. Thus, the staple was eccentric in the calculus and not central, as is usually the case with a stone forming on a foreign body. This experience suggests that stones forming on surgical staples during reconstructive urologic surgery have a characteristic radiologic appearance that may aid in their identification. 
Sleep-induced periodic breathing and apnea: a theoretical study. To elucidate the mechanisms that lead to sleep-disordered breathing, we have developed a mathematical model that allows for dynamic interactions among the chemical control of respiration, changes in sleep-waking state, and changes in upper airway patency. The increase in steady-state arterial PCO2 accompanying sleep is shown to be inversely related to the ventilatory response to CO2. Chemical control of respiration becomes less stable during the light stage of sleep, despite a reduction in chemoresponsiveness, due to a concomitant increase in "plant gain" (i.e., responsiveness of blood gases to ventilatory changes). The withdrawal of the "wakefulness drive" during sleep onset represents a strong perturbation to respiratory control: higher magnitudes and rates of withdrawal of this drive favor instability. These results may account for the higher incidence of periodic breathing observed during light sleep and sleep onset. Periodic ventilation can also result from repetitive alternations between sleep onset and arousal. The potential for instability is further compounded if the possibility of upper airway occlusion is also included. In systems with high controller gains, instability is mediated primarily through chemoreflex overcompensation. However, in systems with depressed chemoresponsiveness, rapid sleep onset and large blood gas fluctuations trigger repetitive episodes of arousal and hyperpnea alternating with apneas that may or may not be obstructive. Between these extremes, more complex patterns can arise from the interaction between chemoreflex-mediated oscillations of shorter-cycle-duration (approximately 36 s) and longer-wavelength (approximately 60-80 s) state-driven oscillations. 
Neuroeffector functions of sensory fibres: implications for headache mechanisms and drug actions. The results of recent investigations designed to elucidate the neuroeffector functions of sensory fibres, the cause of migraine headache and the mechanism of action of antimigraine drugs are reviewed and discussed. Neurogenic inflammation (vasodilatation and neurogenic plasma extravasation) is one explanation for the development of headaches and the blood flow changes which occur during migraine headache. Numerous studies have recently been carried out on rats and guinea-pigs into the effects of antimigraine agents, including ergot alkaloids, sumatriptan and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), on neurogenic plasma protein extravasation in the dura mater induced by electrical stimulation of trigeminal ganglia or systemic administration of capsaicin. It is known that the dura mater is able to produce headaches in man. Ergot alkaloids have been shown to block neurogenic inflammation via a C-fibre dependent neuronal mechanism. Sumatriptan appears to act fairly similarly although, whereas the ergot alkaloids are non-selective for either 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) receptors or 5-HT1, sumatriptan is selective for 5-HT1 receptors. The antimigraine action of NSAIDs may be via either an effect on blood vessels or an effect on the nerve fibre. The antimigraine effects of ergot alkaloids, sumatriptan and NSAIDs are discussed in the light of the common vasoconstrictor actions of these agents and knowledge that vasodilatation is apparently not responsible for migraine headache pain in most cases. 
Degree of coronary artery disease predicted by exercise testing. The ability of exercise testing to predict the extent of coronary artery disease was examined in 268 male patients undergoing both coronary angiography and bicycle testing with electrocardiography before coronary artery bypass surgery. When maximal ST-depressions limited by symptoms increased from 0 to 4 mm or more, the percentage of patients with 'serious' coronary disease, defined as either triple vessel disease or left main stem stenosis, increased from 50% to 80% (P = 0.0001). The patients in the lowest third of physical work capacity showed only a slightly increased risk of serious disease. This tendency was abolished in patients who were using beta-blockers, whereas the relationship between ST-depression and disease was not affected by this medication. The probability of finding left main stem stenosis in a patient increased from 5 to 30% with increasing ST-depression: beta-blockers did not affect this relationship, but there was no additional predictive effect of implicating the level of physical work capacity. It is concluded that traditional electrocardiography during exercise is of value when selecting patients for angiography, but that the physical work level obtained during the test does not predict the degree of coronary pathology. 
Anticonvulsant activity of two orally active competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists, CGP 37849 and CGP 39551, against sound-induced seizures in DBA/2 mice and photically induced myoclonus in Papio papio. Two novel N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid CPG 37849 and the corresponding 1-ethyl ester CGP 39551, were tested as anticonvulsants in DBA/2 mice and photosensitive Senegalese baboons, Papio papio. In DBA/2 mice, CGP 37849 is more potent than CGP 39551 when administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or intraperitoneally (i.p.) (ED50 for suppression of clonic seizures at 60 min: i.c.v. 0.038 and 0.21 nmol; i.p. 3.40 and 19.1 mumol/kg, respectively). When administered orally in mice, the two compounds are approximately equipotent (ED50 CGP 37849, 35.2 mumol/kg; ED50 CGP 39551, 28.1 mumol/kg). The time course of action of CGP 39551 is exceptionally prolonged: 42 mumol/kg i.p. protects against clonic seizures for 48 h. Protection provided by other NMDA antagonists in mice is of much shorter duration: 2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoic acid (AP5) 1 h, 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid (AP7) 4 h, 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid 1-ethyl ester 3 h, 4-(3-phosphonopropyl)-2-piperazine carboxylic acid (CPP) 2 h, cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)-2-piperidine-carboxylic acid (CGS 19755) 4 h, and CGP 37849 4 h. After oral administration of the drugs, the therapeutic index (TI = ratio of the ED50 values for rotorod performance and anticonvulsant protection) remains relatively constant at 5.9-7.2 for 3 h (CGP 37849) and 4.0-6.1 for 24 h (CGP 39551). After i.p. administration, the TI values are CGP 37849 at 1 h 2.4, and at 3 h 20.0, CGP 39551 at 1 h 2.3, at 3 h 7.1, and at 24 h 3.6. In baboons, acute administration of CGP 37849 at doses of 48-191 mumol/kg intravenously (i.v.) suppresses photically induced myoclonus for at least 285 min, with severe side effects at the highest dose tested. CGP 39551 at doses of 169-675 mumol/kg i.v. shows weak anticonvulsant activity only at the highest dose tested (accompanied by severe side effects). CGP 37849 at 48-96 mumol/kg orally (p.o.) fails to protect against photically induced myoclonus up to 4 h after administration, but 191 mumol/kg (40 mg/kg) p.o. produces complete suppression of seizures after 24 h. On the other hand, CGP 39551 at 169 mumol/kg (40 mg/kg) p.o. produces total suppression of seizure activity at 4 h with a longer duration of anticonvulsant action (2-3 days).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Mechanism of shock associated with right ventricular infarction. Various mechanisms have been proposed to explain the shock sometimes associated with right ventricular infarction, but only small numbers of patients with clinical shock have been studied. The haemodynamic profiles of seven patients with clinical cardiogenic shock after right ventricular myocardial infarction were studied prospectively. They were selected because all had a stable cardiac rhythm and none had absolute hypovolaemia during the study period. In all of them the mean right atrial pressure exceeded the pulmonary artery occlusion pressure. After treatment with varying combinations of dopamine, dobutamine, and glyceryl trinitrate (titrated to achieve the optimum haemodynamic response) the mean systemic arterial pressure increased, as did the cardiac index. There was an associated increase in the left ventricular stroke work index but the right ventricular stroke work index was unchanged. There was no significant change in heart rate, mean right atrial pressure, or pulmonary artery occlusion pressure. This suggests that the probable mechanism of the shock associated with right ventricular infarction is concomitant severe left ventricular dysfunction. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis of paramedic emergency medical services in the treatment of prehospital cardiopulmonary arrest. STUDY OBJECTIVES: 1) Identification of marginal costs associated with prehospital resuscitation of cardiopulmonary arrest; 2) Determination of cost effectiveness for such resuscitation; and 3) Comparison of cost effectiveness of paramedic care with selected other medical interventions. DESIGN: Retrospective review of 190 cases of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. SETTING: City limits of a midsized southwestern city. The events studied took place outside of medical facilities. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Victims of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest for whom the EMS system was activated by a 911 telephone request for emergency medical assistance. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The cost, including training, personnel, equipment, and response time maintenance, per year of life saved was found to be $8,886.00 for paramedic care. This result was compared with published cost-effectiveness figures for heart transplantation, liver transplantation, bone marrow transplantation, and chemotherapy for acute leukemia. Paramedic care was more cost effective, as measured by cost per year of life saved, than organ transplantation and chemotherapy for acute leukemia. CONCLUSION: Out-of-hospital treatment by paramedics of cardiopulmonary arrest is more cost effective than heart, liver, bone marrow transplantation, or curative chemotherapy for acute leukemia. 
Prospects for the use of antagonists to the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor to prevent post-angioplasty restenosis and thrombosis. Despite many advances since its inception in humans in 1977, coronary angioplasty continues to be limited by the problems of abrupt arterial closure and late restenosis. Excessive platelet deposition at the site of angioplasty undoubtedly plays an important role in the pathophysiology of both of these problems. Monoclonal antibodies and snake venom-derived or synthetic peptides directed against a common protein recognition sequence on the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor are currently in the early stages of preclinical and clinical testing and hold promise of preventing abrupt closure and restenosis by inhibiting platelet function. Whether any of these agents will eventually be commonly used in clinical practice will depend on their effects on the complex pathophysiology of these problems and on their safety profile when administered to patients who are likely to receive other antithrombotic medications and who are instrumented for coronary angioplasty. 
Effective treatment of small-noncleaved-cell lymphoma with high-intensity, brief-duration chemotherapy. Small-noncleaved-cell (SNC) lymphoma is a high-grade, biologically aggressive neoplasm notable for poor response to therapy, high relapse rate, and less than a 20% long-term survival. We treated 20 patients with SNC lymphoma with a novel chemotherapeutic regimen using intensive doses of chemotherapy at frequent intervals in the inpatient setting. All patients were previously untreated. Sixteen patients (80%) had stage IV disease. Most patients (95%) had at least one other characteristic associated with poor prognosis (bulky [greater than 10 cm] disease, multiple extranodal sites, poor performance status), and 85% had two or more characteristics associated with poor prognosis. Seventeen patients (85%) achieved a complete response (CR) to therapy, including all three patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated disease. There have been three relapses, all occurring less than 18 months after treatment, and two of three relapses occurred in patients who were unable to complete therapy. At a median follow-up of 29 months, 13 patients (65%) remain disease-free; the calculated 5-year actuarial disease-free survival is 60%. Toxicity, chiefly myelosuppression, was severe but manageable. There were two treatment-related deaths, both in elderly patients with poor performance status and advanced-stage disease. These data suggest that such a dose-intensive approach improves the response and survival of patients with SNC lymphoma. 
The transient appearance of small blastoid cells in the marrow after bone marrow transplantation. Of 14 patients who underwent allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation, 6 had a transient appearance of small blastoid cells in the bone marrow after transplantation. Most of these patients (11) had leukemia, although 3 had severe aplastic anemia. The cells were 8-18 micron in diameter and had scant cytoplasm and dense nuclei with smooth, homogeneous chromatin. They often had distinct nuclear clefts. These cells constituted 4.0-21.3% of the total number of bone marrow cells. They were not reactive with peroxidase, alpha-naphtyl butylate esterase, naphthol AS-D chloroacetate esterase, or periodic acid-Schiff stains. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that the small blastoid cells expressed terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, Ia-like, CD19, and CD10 antigens and cytoplasmic mu heavy chains, indicating a precursor B-cell phenotype. CD20 antigen was not expressed on these cells. The data suggest that cytoplasmic mu may be expressed earlier than CD20 antigen in the differentiation of B-cell lineage. The morphologic, cytochemical, and immunophenotypic characteristics did not distinguish these nonneoplastic cells distinctly from leukemic lymphoblastic cells. The increase of small blastoid cells was a transient and self-limited phenomenon, in contrast to that of neoplastic blasts. These cells should be recognized as a common component of the bone marrow of marrow transplant recipients. The significance and role of these cells in immune recovery and hematopoiesis remain uncertain. 
Mitral valve replacement in idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. Idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome is an eosinophil-mediated tissue injury causing multiple organ failure. Cardiac manifestations include subendocardial fibrosis, thrombus leading to peripheral emboli, restrictive cardiomyopathy, and valvar dysfunction. This article describes a patient with the syndrome and reviews surgical experience with valve replacement and long-term prognosis. 
Transrectal US in the diagnosis of localized colitis cystica profunda. Colitis cystica profunda (CCP) mimicks rectal carcinoma, which makes distinguishing this benign lesion from the more common rectal neoplasm clinically and pathologically difficult. When transrectal ultrasound (US) was used in this case, three features of CCP were seen. There were multiple lesions, which did not penetrate beyond the submucosa. A large cystic component was seen, with a layer of uniform thickness in two of the three lesions. Non-solid contents and a lack of infiltration can be visualized at transrectal US, which helps diagnose CCP. 
Headache syndromes as detected by configural frequency analysis. Data on headache symptoms obtained in two samples (N = 422 and 304) by means of questionnaires were subjected to configural frequency analysis (CFA). This not widely-known method tests whether certain symptom combinations appear more often or less often than expected by chance. In both samples symptom combinations corresponding to the syndromes of migraine with aura, migraine without aura and tension headache did indeed occur with significant frequency. The same clear-cut symptom patterns appeared when patients with preceding visual disturbances were excluded from analysis. These results seem to lend strong support to a categorical model of headache, rather than to the concept of headache as a spectrum. 
Recurrence after radiotherapy for glottic carcinoma. A series of 478 patients with T1-3N0 glottic carcinoma treated by irradiation is presented. Of these patients, 320 were previously untreated, whereas 158 patients were referred for treatment of a recurrence after receiving radiotherapy elsewhere. The primary recurrence rate in the previously untreated patients was 10%. The rate was higher in T2 and T3 tumors, poorly differentiated tumors, and in patients who were in poor general condition. Over 80% of the recurrent tumors were Stage pT3 or pT4, whereas 12% of total laryngectomy specimens showed necrosis only with no evidence of tumor. The necrosis rate in previously untreated patients was 1% for T1 tumors, 4% for T2 tumors, and 3% for T3 tumors. Of all tumors, 60% were transglottic when they recurred, whereas only 29% were confined to the glottis at recurrence. Histologic diagnosis had a high sensitivity but a low specificity, indicating that a negative histologic report is unreliable. Of patients with a recurrent primary tumor, 13% were untreatable. The 5-year survival after a primary recurrence was 39%, and the main prognostic factors were sex, T stage at recurrence, and time to recurrence. Of patients available for follow-up at 5 years 49% were alive with a larynx, 5% were alive without a larynx, 13% were dead of the original cancer, and 33% had died of other causes. In those suffering a primary recurrence, the commonest cause of death was a subsequent lymph node metastasis, followed in order of frequency by stomal recurrence and recurrence in the pharyngeal remnant. The hospital mortality rate after laryngectomy was 3%, and 30% of patients undergoing laryngectomy developed a pharyngocutaneous fistula. The recurrence rate in lymph nodes was 14% at 5 years, general condition and T stage being the only significant predictors of recurrence. Only 17% of patients had small (N1) nodes by the time the diagnosis of cervical lymph node recurrence was made, and 27% of all patients were unsuitable for treatment. Host, tumor factors, and time to recurrence were not significant predictors of survival after node recurrence. The survival rate 5 years after node recurrence was 16%, and the main cause of death in those who died was uncontrolled disease in the neck. The hospital mortality after salvage neck dissection was 4.7%. 
Pulse oximetry monitoring outside the intensive care unit: progress or problem? OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use of continuous pulse oximetry monitoring in general care units. DESIGN: Hemoglobin oxygen saturation data collected prospectively by use of pulse oximetry with concurrent review of the medical record. SETTING: General medical-surgical nursing units in a large, tertiary care university hospital. PATIENTS: Forty patients on two nursing units monitored with continuous, bedside pulse oximetry at the request of their primary physicians. MEASUREMENTS: All patients had continuous pulse oximetry monitoring. A research associate visited the bedside two or three times daily and recorded saturation compared with time data from the previous 8.75 hours. Patients were studied for 36 hours or until pulse oximetry monitoring was discontinued. Episodes of desaturation were counted. Patient charts were reviewed for documentation of desaturation in either nursing or physician notes. Orders adjusting oxygen therapy or other respiratory therapy within 12 hours of any desaturation episode were also recorded. MAIN RESULTS: Thirty of the 40 patients (75%) had at least one episode of desaturation to less than 90%; 23 (58%) had at least one episode to less than 85%. Desaturation episodes were documented in nursing notes for only 33% of those patients who desaturated to less than 90% and in physician notes in only 7% of cases. Changes in respiratory therapy were ordered in 20% of patients who desaturated to less than 90% and in only 26% who desaturated to less than 85%. CONCLUSIONS: Despite their repeated occurrence, episodes of hypoxemia were rarely documented in either nursing or physician notes. Further, even in patients who had episodic desaturation, pulse oximetry monitoring had little effect on changes in physician-directed respiratory care. 
Fatty infiltration in the liver in medium chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Fatty infiltration of the liver at postmortem examination has been recommended as a criterion for selection of infants who have died suddenly and unexpectedly for further biochemical investigation for disorders of fatty acid oxidation. We describe a boy with medium chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency who died four months after diagnosis and in whom only minimal hepatic fatty infiltration was found. 
Peripheral neuropathy after chronic endoneurial ischemia. We have developed a method for producing chronic regional nerve ischemia in rats by creating proximal limb arteriovenous shunts. This procedure results in a 50 to 75% reduction in endoneurial blood flow within the distal sciatic nerve as measured by the iodoantipyrine method. Nerve conduction velocities in sciatic nerves ipsilateral to the shunt fell by 25 to 30% within 2 weeks after creation of the shunt and did not recover for up to 10 months after the procedure. Morphological studies of the ischemic nerves showed structural abnormalities at nodes of Ranvier and mild axonal atrophy. Neither segmental demyelination nor axonal degeneration were evident. These results indicate that reduced endoneurial blood flow, insufficient to cause infarction, may result in measurable functional and morphological abnormalities in peripheral nerves. 
Clinical comparison of polyglactic acid (Vicryl) and polytrimethylene carbonate (Maxon) suture material. Over a 1-year period, 584 repairs of surgical defects were completed using two different synthetic absorbable sutures, polyglactic acid (Vicryl) and polytrimethylene carbonate (Maxon). No difference in scar width or postoperative complications were found between the two sutures, but polytrimethylene carbonate (Maxon) demonstrated preferable handling and tying characteristics. 
Low energy catheter ablation of right ventricular outflow tract tachycardia. A 38 year old woman with a structurally normal heart presented with near syncope and had right ventricular outflow tract tachycardia. She was intolerant of antiarrhythmic medication and underwent low energy catheter ablation. Six non-arcing shocks of 25 J were delivered to the right ventricular outflow tract. No further ventricular tachycardia occurred during a follow up of seven months without antiarrhythmic treatment. 
Fixed subaortic stenosis: anatomical spectrum and nature of progression. Retrospective echocardiographic review identified 58 consecutive infants and children with fixed subaortic stenosis. Mean (SD) age at diagnosis was 4.8 (3.6) years (range two days to 14.7 years), and diagnosis occurred in infancy in eight. Associated cardiac abnormalities were present in 41 (71%) whereas fixed subaortic stenosis was an isolated lesion in 17 (29%). Four types of fixed subaortic stenosis were identified: short segment (47 (81%)), long segment (7 (12%)), posterior displacement of the infundibular septum with additional discrete narrowing of the left ventricular outflow tract (3 (5%)), and redundant tissue arising from the membranous septum (1 (2%)). Echocardiographic studies had been performed before the diagnosis of fixed subaortic stenosis in nine patients, all with associated abnormalities. These were performed in infancy in each and showed a "normal" left ventricular outflow tract in six and posterior deviation of the infundibular septum in three. In 16 patients serial echocardiographic studies had been performed after the diagnosis of fixed subaortic stenosis but before surgery of the left ventricular outflow tract. Rapid evolution of short segment to long segment narrowing was seen in one patient, and tethering of the aortic valve or mitral valve developed in a further four patients. Aortic valve or mitral valve involvement was not seen before the age of three years but was common thereafter (10/40 patients, 25%). Fixed subaortic stenosis may be an "acquired" lesion with the potential for changes in form as well as progression in severity of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. 
Limited hepatic resection for selected cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular or cholangiocellular carcinoma: a prospective study. From 1 January 1983 to 1 January 1989 123 cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular cancer (n = 122) or cholangiocarcinoma (n = 1) were screened using liver function tests, alpha-fetoprotein determination, ultrasonography with biopsy (and in selected cases computed tomography or nuclear magnetic resonance), laparoscopy and angiography, Child-Pugh classification and urea-nitrogen synthesis rate. Twenty-three patients were selected for surgical resection because the tumour was smaller than 5 cm, not centrally located and at least 1 cm away from main structures; there was no evidence of multicentricity or metastatic disease; and the Child-Pugh classification was A or B and the urea-nitrogen synthesis rate at least 6 g/day. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was used routinely to identify oesophageal varices which were present in 17 cases; ten patients with a history of variceal haemorrhage (43 per cent) had preoperative endoscopic sclerotherapy. In cases with recurrent haemorrhage, surgery was used to prevent intraoperative and postoperative bleeding. Tumour resection was carried out using controlled hypotension and hepatoduodenal ligament clamping. Twelve bisegmentectomies, ten segmentectomies and one atypical resection were performed. The operative mortality rate was 13 per cent with liver failure and sepsis as the causes of death. The 'recurrence rate' was 26 per cent and the late mortality rate for the whole group up to 1 January 1990 was 30 per cent; 13 patients were still alive. The 12-month survival rate was 77 per cent and after 5 years it was 49 per cent. Thus, surgical resection of small liver tumours is the treatment of choice in this selected group of patients. 
The malignant nature of papillary and cystic neoplasm of the pancreas. Two new cases of papillary and cystic neoplasm of the pancreas are reported. One patient was a 20-year-old woman with massive unresectable liver metastases, and the other was a 15-year-old boy. To study the natural history and malignant potential of this tumor, the English literature was reviewed to obtain an additional 56 cases. Clinical characteristics include pain and a mass in most patients, although many are found incidentally. Jaundice, hemoperitoneum, nausea, and vomiting are unusual findings. Most patients are treated by wide resection with good results. These tumors appear to be indolent. However, 16% of patients had major organ or blood vessel invasion, and 7% had liver metastases at some time during the course of their disease, illustrating the malignant nature of this tumor. Long-term follow-up is necessary to evaluate the efficacy of treatment, especially in the case of locally advanced and metastatic disease. 
Hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis after chronic administration of alcohol and "low-dose" carbon tetrachloride vapor in the rat Rats were exposed to carbon tetrachloride vapor, 5 days/wk, 6 hr/day, for periods of 5 or 10 wk at a concentration that by itself caused only fatty change with minimal liver cell necrosis and no fibrosis. The same carbon tetrachloride exposure when given in association with chronic alcohol feeding resulted in extensive hepatic fibrosis at 5 wk and established micronodular cirrhosis at 10 wk. The periodicity of the exposure profile was chosen to simulate that of human exposure to environmental toxins, albeit at a higher dose than would be permitted in the workplace. The development of significant liver injury in this animal model raises the possibility that some chronic liver injury in humans may be due to alcohol potentiation of other hepatotoxins present in the environment at subtoxic levels. 
Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy versus conservative treatment for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and bleeding esophageal varices. We performed endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) in the treatment of 37 patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The results were compared with those in another 33 HCC patients treated only conservatively, without EIS, during the same period. A majority of both groups died within 3 weeks after treatment. Comparing the two groups, there was no significant difference in fatal bleeding (66% vs 75%), but significantly fewer of the EIS patients died of the index hemorrhage (43% vs. 83%; p less than 0.01). Also, in the absence of portal vein thrombosis, EIS significantly reduced the risk of fatal bleeding (31% vs. 73%; p less than 0.25). The mean days of survival were 32 +/- 15 (range, 2 to 320) in the EIS group and 10 +/- 14 (range, 2 to 270) in the compared group (p less than 0.001). We conclude that EIS provides temporary control of acute esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with unresectable HCC. The major factors contributing to EIS failure are the lethal propensity of the underlying disease and portal vein thrombosis. 
Osteogenic sarcoma of the head and neck. The UCLA experience. Eighteen cases of osteogenic sarcoma of the head and neck were treated at our institution between 1955 and 1987. The patients' ages ranged from 5 to 73 years, with a median age of 28 years. The sex distribution was equal. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 276 months, with a median of 79 months. The primary site of the tumor was the mandible in nine cases, maxilla and paranasal sinuses in six, skull in two, and orbit in one. Six of 18 patients were free of disease with greater than 5 years of follow-up. Four of the six received combined surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy as their primary treatment. Of the five patients treated with surgery alone, four suffered recurrences, one of whom was salvaged with further surgery and chemotherapy. Five patients were treated initially without surgery. They received radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy; all five developed local recurrence. We conclude that osteogenic sarcoma of the head and neck is an aggressive tumor, prone to both local and distant failure. Based on our series and from published experience involving the extremities, osteogenic sarcoma of the head and neck should be managed with multimodality therapy. 
Acute basophilic leukemia. A clinical, morphologic, and cytogenetic study of eight cases. The authors describe eight cases of acute basophilic leukemia. In six of the eight cases, basophilic involvement was not apparent by light microscopic examination. The cases were identified on the basis of ultrastructural evidence for basophil/mast cell differentiation of the blasts with little or no differentiation into other lineages. Ultrastructural analysis revealed immature basophil granules in blasts in all eight cases and theta granules in blasts in four cases. In three cases, ultrastructural evidence of mast cell differentiation also was present, with rare cells showing evidence for both basophil and mast cell differentiation. No clinical features distinguished this group of patients from others with acute myeloid leukemia. Cytogenetically, the cases were heterogeneous. Three had a Philadelphia chromosome; none had a t(6;9). The authors conclude that ultrastructural analysis usually must be used to diagnose acute basophilic leukemia, that acute basophilic leukemia is associated frequently with the Philadelphia chromosome, and that the ultrastructural findings provide evidence for a common origin of basophils and mast cells. 
Zones of differential sensory block during extradural anaesthesia. We have measured spinal segmental levels of anaesthesia to light touch (LT), pinprick (PP) and cold temperature discrimination (TE) during 2% lignocaine extradural anaesthesia in 22 patients, to determine if zones of differential sensory block develop during extradural anaesthesia and, if so, the extent to which TE extends beyond PP or LT levels and how age affects differential block. The median thoracic dermatomal levels were 4.5 for LT, 2.0 for PP and 2.0 for TE. Zones of differential sensory block developed within 5 min of extradural injection of local anaesthetic, and persisted for the next 55 min. In all instances, PP extended more cephalad than LT, and TE extended above PP levels. There were no differences in the extent of zones between the two groups of patients with mean ages of 28 and 48 yr. Thus, during extradural anaesthesia, sympathetic denervation extended one to two spinal segments above the sensory levels of LT and PP anaesthesia, age (28 vs 48 yr) affected neither the cephalad extent nor the width of zones of differential block, and PP levels of anaesthesia were closer to presumed levels of sympathetic block than were LT levels. 
Late complications involving the ascending aorta after cardiac surgery: recognition and management. Pseudoaneurysms and dissecting aneurysms of the ascending aorta after cardiac surgery are uncommon but important complications. Pseudoaneurysms, which result from extravasation of blood into the mediastinum, most commonly occur at the site of aortotomy or aortic cannulation. Infection may play an important role. Dissecting aneurysms after cardiac surgery usually occur at the site of aortic incision or cross clamping, especially in atherosclerotic aortas. Both conditions may be clinically silent but more frequently are seen with significant symptoms. Noninvasive techniques including CT scan, MRI, and echocardiography are very useful in the diagnosis of both complications, with contrast aortography remaining the definitive method. Surgical repair is necessary for dissecting aneurysms and for enlarging and symptomatic pseudoaneurysms, with improving morbidity and mortality. 
Endourology of lower urinary tract. Two methods for obtaining percutaneous access to the bladder are described. Depending on whether or not urethral access is available an endoscopic or fluoroscopic technique may be applied. We have successfully performed suprapubic percutaneous cystolitholapaxy, antegrade fulguration of posterior urethral valves, antegrade cystourethroscopy as an adjunct for urethroplasty, and internal drainage of a bulbar urethral abscess. Endourologic techniques may be readily applied to the lower urinary tract and may be specifically indicated in certain situations. 
Time-motion reconstruction of mitral leaflet motion from two-dimensional echocardiography in mitral valve prolapse. To assess the contributions of mitral leaflet billowing and exaggerated systolic mitral anular expansion to posterior motion of mitral leaflets recognized as mitral valve prolapse (MVP) by M-mode echocardiography, time-motion reconstructions of the anteroposterior displacement of points equally spaced along the anterior and posterior mitral leaflets were derived by computer-assisted analysis of 2-dimensional echocardiograms. Late or holosystolic posterior displacement of mitral leaflets, greater than or equal to 2 mm, occurred in the reconstructions from 24 of 24 (100%) patients with MVP with leaflet billowing and in 20 of 24 (83%) patients with MVP without leaflet billowing compared with 4 of 35 (11%) age-sex matched normal adults (both p less than 0.0000002). Posterior motion of the posterior mitral leaflet in time-motion reconstruction was significantly less with respect to the posterior end of the mitral anulus than with respect to the chest wall in patients with nonbillowing MVP (1.6 +/- 1.9 vs 2.7 +/- 1.6, p less than 0.02), but not in those with leaflet billowing (3.6 +/- 1.8 vs 3.9 +/- 1.8, p = not significant), because anular expansion contributed importantly to MVP in the former but not in the latter group. Thus, M-mode echocardiographic patterns of MVP reflect the separate but interacting effects of distinct abnormalities of mitral anular and leaflet dynamics. 
Polymorphous low grade adenocarcinoma of the palate in a child. We report a case of polymorphous low grade adenocarcinoma involving the palate of a 12-year-old girl, the first example of this tumour occurring in the paediatric age group. The tumour displayed infiltrative growth, neural invasion, variegated histological patterns, and minimal cytological atypia. The patient remained disease-free four years after wide local excision of the tumour. The distinction of polymorphous low grade adenocarcinoma from pleomorphic adenoma and adenoid cystic carcinoma is also discussed. 
Experimental pain thresholds and plasma beta-endorphin levels during exercise. Experimental pain thresholds (electrical intracutaneous finger and dental pulp stimulation) and plasma hormone levels (beta-endorphin, cortisol, and catecholamines) were measured in ten healthy sportive men before, during, and after progressively more strenuous physical exercise. In a double-blind study conducted on two different days, 20 mg of the opioid-antagonist naloxone or placebo was administered prior to exercise. A significant pain threshold elevation was found during exercise for finger (ANOVA, P less than 0.004) and dental pulp stimulation (P less than 0.01). Pain threshold elevation was most pronounced during maximal exertion, at which time the subjects reported the greatest subjective fatigue. Thresholds remained elevated 10-15 min after the end of exercise, and, 60 min after exercise, thresholds returned to baseline values. The subjective magnitude estimation of suprathreshold stimuli was significantly reduced (P less than 0.0001) 5-10 min after exercise. Plasma beta-endorphin, cortisol, and catecholamines increased significantly (P less than 0.0005, all values) during exercise. Plasma beta-endorphin levels did not correlate significantly with pain thresholds (r = -0.37, NS). Naloxone failed to affect pain thresholds, although beta-endorphin and cortisol increased significantly more (P less than 0.02) during exercise after naloxone. It is concluded that short-term, exhaustive physical exercise can evoke a transient elevation in pain thresholds. This exercise-induced elevation in pain threshold does not, however, appear to be directly related to plasma endorphin levels. 
Arteriopathy and coarctation of the abdominal aorta in children with mucopolysaccharidosis: imaging findings. Eight children with mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I), representing 33% of all children with MPS I seen at our institution during an 18-year period, developed hypertension. Five of these hypertensive children also exhibited symptoms of aortic coarctation. The radiographic evaluation of four of these children with MPS I (three with Hurler syndrome, MPS I H, and one with Scheie disease, MPS I S) and arteriopathy affecting the thoracic aorta, abdominal aorta, and visceral and renal arteries is presented. Hypertension developed in all four children before they were 4 years old; three had differences between upper- and lower-extremity blood pressures. Irregular narrowing of the abdominal aorta with either multiple minor asymmetric wall lesions (n = 2) or abrupt concentric narrowing (n = 2) was present in all children as shown by aortography (n = 3), sonography (n = 3), MR imaging (n = 2), and/or autopsy (n = 1). A variety of other vessels also were involved, including the ascending aorta (n = 1) and vertebral (n = 1), axillary (n = 1), intercostal (n = 2), lumbar (n = 2), mesenteric (n = 3), renal (n = 2), and iliac arteries (n = 3). Autopsy in one child demonstrated thickened heart valves, narrowing of the coronary arteries, and irregularity of the aorta due to deposition of mucopolysaccharide material within the intima. Our series demonstrates various facets of the arteriopathy of MPS I as shown by sonography, MR imaging, and angiography. 
Congenital arteriovenous communications and the development of two types of leaking retinal macroaneurysms. We treated a patient with a rare combination of congenital arteriovenous communications and the development of leaking macroaneurysms of different types. Initially, leaking macroaneurysms developed in the shunt area of the arteriovenous communication; later, a preexistent fusiform macroaneurysm in the afferent arteriole of the congenital communication started leaking. Because exudates and fluid from the leaking macroaneurysms reached the fovea, laser treatment was performed to obliterate the macroaneurysms. We assume that after obliteration of the macroaneurysms with laser in the shunt area, the increase of hydrostatic pressure on the thin wall of the fusiform aneurysm of the afferent artery led to its leaking. We saw no signs of vascular occlusion after laser treatment. 
In vitro balloon dilatation of mitral valve stenosis: the importance of subvalvar involvement as a cause of mitral valve insufficiency. To investigate the mechanism that increases the orifice area of the mitral valve during balloon dilatation 43 surgically excised intact rheumatic mitral valves were studied. The main pathological features were (a) fibrosis of mitral valve leaflets and commissures (10 valves); (b) fibrosis with calcification of one commissure (eight anterolateral, seven posteromedial); (c) fibrosis with calcification of both commissures (seven valves); and (d) predominant involvement of the subvalvar apparatus (11 valves). The valves were assessed by photography and radiography before and after balloon dilatation (balloons up to 38 mm (bifoil 2 x 19 mm) and pressures up to 4 atmospheres). The valve was dilated in stages under direct visual control by balloons of increasing diameter. Splitting of the fused commissures was the most common mode of widening the orifice. However, the mitral valve leaflets were torn in two fibrotic valves and in six valves with extensive involvement of the subvalvar apparatus. In the fibrotic valves (group (a] the tear originated near the valve perimeter, at the thinnest part of the remaining valve leaflet. In the valves with subvalvar involvement splitting started at the apex of spaces between the fused chordal columns and proceeded upward. Where there is extensive involvement of the subvalvar apparatus in rheumatic mitral valve disease the risk of tearing of the valve leaflets by balloon dilatation is increased and this is likely to predispose to the development of acute valvar insufficiency. 
Diagnostic value of Lipiodol injection in focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. We encountered a case of small focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) of the liver. It was difficult to distinguish FNH from hepatocellular carcinoma by means of sonography, computed tomography (CT), and angiography. After the injection of Lipiodol, it accumulated densely on FNH, but was washed away after a short time, as observed on the follow-up CT. This progress was different from that in hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Systemic toxicity of ropivacaine during ovine pregnancy. Ropivacaine is a new amide local anesthetic structurally related to bupivacaine and mepivacaine. Its potency and duration of action are similar to those of bupivacaine but its therapeutic index may be greater. Since pregnancy enhances the cardiotoxicity of bupivacaine, the current study was devised to compare the toxicity of ropivacaine in chronically instrumented nonpregnant and pregnant ewes during continuous intravenous infusion of the drug at the rate of 0.5 mg.kg-1.min-1. In all animals, symptoms of local anesthetic toxicity occurred in the usual order--convulsions, hypotension, apnea, and circulatory collapse. There were no significant differences between the two groups of animals in the doses and plasma concentrations of ropivacaine associated with each toxic manifestations. For example, circulatory collapse occurred at a mean dose of 11.3 +/- 1.1 mg.kg-1 in nonpregnant and 12.4 +/- 0.9 mg.kg-1 in pregnant animals, with corresponding plasma concentrations of 7.3 +/- 0.3 and 9.6 +/- 2.1 micrograms.ml-1 (P = not significant). Protein binding of ropivacaine in the concentration range associated with toxic manifestations was similar in sera obtained from nonpregnant and pregnant ewes. In conclusion, ovine pregnancy does not enhance the systemic toxicity of ropivacaine, possibly because of an absence of gestation-related increase in the availability of free drug. 
Claudication: an unusual side effect of DHE administration. DHE is effective in the treatment of acute and chronic migraine. The side effects most commonly observed are abdominal discomfort, muscle pain, diarrhea and anxiety. DHE is a dehydrogenated amino acid ergot alkaloid and, as such, causes only limited vasoconstriction; indeed, its overall effects include peripheral vasodilation. The literature is replete with reports of clinical vasospasm and claudication occurring with therapeutic doses of ergotamine. There has not been any previous description of claudication caused by DHE. This paper describes pulselessness in two patients during relatively short courses of DHE. Treatment consisted of calcium channel blockers and discontinuation of DHE. Recovery was complete. 
Fatal varicella-zoster virus meningoradiculitis without skin involvement. A 77-year-old man with T-cell lymphoma developed an acute fatal meningoradiculitis of cranial nerve roots and cauda equina, pathologically and virologically confirmed to be caused by varicella-zoster virus. This is the first report of fatal varicella-zoster virus-induced neurological disease in the absence of skin lesions. Varicella-zoster virus should be included in the differential diagnosis of acute radiculoneuropathy in the immunocompromised patient, particularly because antiviral treatment for varicella-zoster virus exists. 
Cerebral vasculopathy associated with collateralization resembling moya moya phenomenon and with anti-Ro/SS-A and anti-La/SS-B antibodies. We describe a 48-year-old, previously healthy, anti-Ro/SS-A and anti-La/SS-B antibody positive black woman with negative risk factors for atherosclerosis, who developed mental status and personality changes over a 6-12-month period, and progressive cortical blindness over a 2-week period. Angiographic and computed axial tomographic studies of the brain demonstrated multiple large areas of infarction correlating with stenosis and occlusions of the internal carotid and posterior cerebral arteries. Moya moya-like findings were prominent radiographically. Results of angiographic, computed tomographic, and magnetic resonance imaging studies were interpreted as being compatible with large, medium, and small vessel disease, most likely a vasculitis. 
Factors associated with poor visual outcome in acute retinal necrosis. We reviewed 22 consecutive patients (26 eyes) with acute retinal necrosis to elucidate whether there was any sign at an early stage to predict poor visual outcome. Final visual acuity of the patients fell into two groups, one worse than 20/600 (15 eyes) and the other better than 20/30 (11 eyes). The patients with poor visual outcome showed diffuse retinal arteritis or arterial obliteration which was associated with reduced amplitude of electroretinographic a and b waves and elevated levels of circulating immune complex, even at an early stage when retinal exudates were still localised to the peripheral fundus. The retinal exudates in these patients extended rapidly to the posterior pole. In contrast, the patients with good visual outcome showed retinal arteritis limited within retinal exudates throughout the course. These signs at an early stage can be used as prognostic factors to manage patients with acute retinal necrosis more constructively. 
Behavioral aspects of temperature-taking. Ear thermometry addresses two basic psychological aspects of fevers. The first one is obvious: the battle of the rectal temperature can be eliminated by ear thermometry. The second one addresses the overtreatment of tactile fevers. Tactile temperature taken by feeling the forehead occurs in 50% to 90% of homes. Half of warm foreheads occur in afebrile children who are warm because they're releasing heat generated by a recent activity or bath. If an actual temperature were measured, these children wouldn't be mislabeled as having fever and unnecessarily treated. 
Intrahepatic hematoma: a rare complication of exchange transfusion. A four-day-old male neonate who underwent three exchange transfusions for jaundice owing to ABO incompatibility on three consecutive days is presented. A large intrahepatic hematoma developed as a complication of the third exchange transfusion. The baby fully recovered. 
Hemodynamic effects of celiprolol in essential hypertension. The immediate and short-term (2 week) hemodynamic and humoral effects of the beta-1 antagonist, beta-2 agonist, celiprolol, were compared with those of more prolonged atenolol therapy in 12 patients with essential hypertension. Celiprolol produced an immediate dose-dependent decrease in mean arterial pressure (113 +/- 3 to 102 +/- 2 mm Hg; p less than 0.001) and total peripheral resistance (49 +/- 3 to 38 +/- 1 U/m2; p less than 0.005) that was associated with an increased heart rate (67 +/- 1 to 73 +/- 2 beats/min; p less than 0.01) and cardiac index (2,347 +/- 129 to 2,708 +/- 111 ml/min/m2; p less than 0.01). Both celiprolol and atenolol reduced mean arterial pressure with short-term treatment (p less than 0.01); this was associated with a reduced total peripheral resistance with celiprolol (from 24 +/- 1 to 21 +/- 1 U/m2; p less than 0.02) and was not observed with atenolol. Moreover, in contrast with atenolol, celiprolol did not change heart rate or stroke and cardiac indexes. Splanchnic and forearm vascular resistances decreased with celiprolol (p less than 0.05) but not with atenolol; neither beta-blocking drug altered renal blood flow. These results demonstrate that the hemodynamic effects of celiprolol were strikingly different from atenolol; celiprolol reduced arterial pressure and total peripheral and certain vascular resistances without altering heart rate, cardiac index or regional blood flows. These effects may be explained by celiprolol's cardiac beta-1 receptor inhibitory and peripheral beta-2 receptor agonistic effects. 
Ventricular arrhythmias during treatment with alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator) in suspected acute myocardial infarction. Continuous electrocardiography during the first 24 hours of a stay in a coronary care unit was used to record ventricular arrhythmias during treatment with alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator) or placebo. Recordings were made on 378 of the 436 patients admitted to a double blind trial of alteplase or placebo in one participating centre of the Anglo-Scandinavian study of early thrombosis (ASSET), patients being selected according to the availability of recorders. Of these, 309 (158 given alteplase and 151 placebo) had greater than 5 hours of analysable data. Most of the arrhythmias were recorded in patients with an in hospital diagnosis of myocardial infarction. Ventricular couplets and ventricular tachycardia were significantly more common in the patients treated with alteplase. Further, in patients with myocardial infarction who had ventricular extrasystoles, couplets, or ventricular tachycardia type a, the number of hours in which each arrhythmia was recorded was significantly higher in the alteplase group. The various ventricular arrhythmias in the alteplase group tended to cluster in the first 4-12 hours of the recordings. During the first 24 hours admission there were four episodes of ventricular fibrillation in the alteplase group and five in the placebo group of taped patients. By one month there had been 18 deaths in these 309 patients (alteplase four, placebo 14). These bore no relation to any recorded arrhythmia. Clinical records for the patients with no or minimal tape data yielded six further episodes of ventricular fibrillation during the first 24 hours (three in the alteplase group and three in the placebo group). 
Multivariate assessment of traditional risk factors for chronic lung disease in very low birth weight neonates. The Newborn Lung Project. All neonates (n = 581) with birth weights less than 1501 gm admitted to seven neonatal intensive care units in Wisconsin and Iowa were candidates for a study aimed at the multivariate assessment of risk factors for chronic lung disease while controlling for baseline severity of respiratory disease. Data from 361 neonates were analyzed for all risk factors except fluids; only neonates weighing less than 1200 gm were included (n = 220). Information on traditional risk factors for chronic lung disease was abstracted. A total of 110 (30%) of the analyzed neonates were oxygen dependent on day 30 of life. The following baseline factors were associated with increased risk of oxygen dependence in a joint multivariate model: lower birth weight (odds ratio 1.4/100 gm), higher baseline severity score (odds ratio 2.7/doubling at 32 weeks gestational age), lower gestational age (odds ratio 2.4/week at severity 0), Apgar score at 1 minute (odds ratio 1.6/2 points), male gender (odds ratio 1.9), and nonblack race (odds ratio 2.2). After adjustment for all baseline factors, patent ductus arteriosus, ventilator pressure at 96 hours, oxygen at 96 hours, and fluid intake were associated with oxygen dependence. Neonates with a low baseline severity score who remained oxygen dependent had a higher intake of fluid relative to output, whereas neonates with a higher baseline severity score had higher fluid intake and output. Lack of weight loss was associated with increased severity but not with oxygen dependence. The results of this study generally confirm the significance of previously reported risk factors for chronic lung disease in a multivariate setting but show that risk factors may not have the same impact in neonates with different baseline severity. 
MR imaging of the seminal vesicles. MR imaging (0.35 and 1.50 T) was used to assess the appearance of the seminal vesicles. The size and signal intensity of normal seminal vesicles vary with the age of the subject. In general, on T2-weighted images, the signal intensity of normal seminal vesicles is lower than that of fat in prepubertal children, similar to or higher than that of fat in adults, and similar to or lower than that of fat in patients older than 70 years of age. Endocrine and radiation therapy will influence the size and signal intensity of the seminal vesicles. The purpose of the essay is to illustrate the spectrum of seminal vesicle disease, including congenital anomalies, inflammation, and neoplastic disease. Although MR imaging is helpful in depicting seminal vesicle abnormalities, it does not allow differentiation of benign from malignant disease, distinction of hemorrhage due to tumor invasion from postbiopsy changes, or distinguishing between glandular obstruction due to tumor infiltration and mechanical compression. 
A comparative, randomized study of low-dose human menopausal gonadotropin and follicle-stimulating hormone in women with polycystic ovarian syndrome. Treatment with low-dose follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is associated with a high rate of ovulation in anovulatory women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), but it is not clear whether the success of treatment is because of the use of pure FSH or the low dose of gonadotropin. We undertook a randomized controlled study to compare the effects of urinary FSH and human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) using a low-dose regimen in 30 women with PCOS. Each subject received a maximum of three cycles of either FSH or hMG. Ovulation occurred in 75% of subjects and in 77% of cycles induced with FSH and in 94% of women, 85% of cycles of those treated with hMG. A single dominant follicle developed in 70% (FSH) and 65% (hMG) of cycles, respectively. Five singleton pregnancies occurred in each group. This study shows that low-dose FSH and hMG are equally successful in inducing ovulation, suggesting that the success of treatment depends on the low dose of gonadotropin used rather than the presence or absence of luteinizing hormone in the preparation. 
Platelet aggregating activity in serum from patients with HLA-B27 associated rheumatic and cardiac disorders: a possible link to the proliferative vascular changes. OBJECTIVE--To search for possible serum factors (immunochemical abnormalities) that reflect HLA-B27 associated inflammatory process with the proliferative endarteritis, which is an important cause of severe bradycardia and aortic valve regurgitation. PATIENTS AND METHODS--Seventy four men with pacemakers were studied: 24 were HLA-B27 positive and had associated rheumatic and cardiac disorders, 13 were B27 positive but had no clinical or radiographic signs of a related rheumatic condition, and 37 were B27 negative controls. Randomly obtained serum samples were examined for a series of serum factors. RESULTS--Thirteen (57%) of the 23 patients with HLA-B27 and associated rheumatic and cardiac conditions had platelet aggregating activity in their serum. No such activity was found in sera from patients in the other groups. None the less, immunochemical abnormalities were common among patients of all groups; 30 (41%) had antinuclear antibodies or rheumatoid factor or both. CONCLUSION--The platelet aggregating activity found in patients with HLA-B27 and associated rheumatic and cardiac conditions may reflect serum factors that increase the stickiness of platelets and increase their adhesion to the vessel wall. This suggests a link via release of platelet derived growth factor(s) with the characteristic histopathological feature of proliferative endarteritis. Immunochemical abnormalities were common in serum from all men with pacemakers. 
Tertiary syphilis of the face. We report a case of noduloulcerative tertiary syphilis that had gone misdiagnosed as discoid lupus erythematosus for many years. This case is noteworthy for (1) a Jarisch-Herxheimer-like reaction, (2) a dramatic response to penicillin therapy despite the presence of long-standing disease, and (3) posttreatment granulomas of possible hypersensitivity origin. 
Detection of human papillomavirus in head and neck tumors with DNA hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis. The presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in oral, sinus, pharynx, and larynx lesions of Japanese patients was studied by Southern blot hybridization under less stringent (25% formamide, 42 degrees C) and stringent (50% formamide, 42 degrees C) conditions. Three samples from 10 benign tumors, and 3 of 30 malignant tumors, contained HPV DNA or HPV-related sequences. The HPV DNAs harbored in three laryngeal papillomas were HPV-11, -6, and -6 or -11, respectively. The HPV DNA and viral capsid antigens were easily detected by in situ hybridization, Western blotting, and peroxidase-antiperoxidase staining. However, neither the typical restriction pattern of HPV DNA nor viral antigen was identified in the malignant tumors, suggesting that subgenomic fragments remained integrated in the host cell DNA. 
Diagnostic relevance of trigeminal evoked potentials following infraorbital nerve stimulation. A new tool in neurophysiological exploration of the trigeminal nerve has recently been introduced. It has been demonstrated that stimulation of the infraorbital nerve trunk gives rise to very reliable scalp responses reflecting the activity of the afferent pathway between the maximally nerve and the brain stem. The authors demonstrate that alterations of such trigeminal evoked responses fit with documented pathological processes at various locations along the trigeminal pathway (maxillary sinus, parasellar region, and within the brain-stem parenchyma). They report the findings in 68 patients suffering from "idiopathic" trigeminal neuralgia. Alterations of the response were detected in 33 cases, suggesting that some damage of the nerve had taken place either at the root entry zone into the pons (23 cases) or slightly distal to it (10 cases). Such results support the hypothesis that trigeminal neuralgia may be due to a compression of the trigeminal root at the pons entry zone. 
Application of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA sequence polymorphisms to the study of HBV transmission. Short sequences in hypervariable regions of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) genome can be used to identify different strains, providing a novel approach to the study of HBV transmission. The nucleotide sequence in positions 2551-2650 (1:EcoRI site) was determined for serum HBV DNA from 96 Chinese children living in Hong Kong and from 38 of their parents. HBV DNA was extracted and sequenced after amplification with the polymerase chain reaction, using as primers oligonucleotides corresponding to two conserved sequences. Among 82 unrelated children, 32 HBV DNA variants were present. One sequence was present in 33 children and 31 variants were found among the other 49. Siblings within each of nine families had the same variant; in three families siblings had different variants. Six of the eight fathers and 28 of the 30 mothers had HBV DNA sequences identical to those of their offspring. A total of 34 variants were found among the 134 individuals. The hypothesis of random assortment of sequences in parents and children was rejected (P less than .00005). Thus, this new approach proves the occurrence of intrafamilial transmission of HBV among Chinese. 
Antiemetic efficacy of ondansetron after outpatient laparoscopy. The safety and efficacy of ondansetron were evaluated for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting after laparoscopic surgical procedures. Seventy-one healthy, consenting outpatients were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups according to a double-blind, placebo-controlled protocol. A standardized anesthetic technique consisting of alfentanil-thiopental-succinylcholine for induction and alfentanil-nitrous oxide-succinylcholine for maintenance of anesthesia was used. Patients in whom postoperative nausea and/or vomiting developed and persisted for greater than or equal to 10 min received equivolemic intravenous injections of either ondansetron (8 mg) or saline (placebo) over a 2-5 min period. Ondansetron significantly decreased the posttreatment nausea scores (vs placebo) without increasing sedation or producing changes in cardiorespiratory parameters. In the placebo-treated group, 92% of the patients experienced subsequent episodes of vomiting in the postanesthesia care unit compared with 51% of the patients in the ondansetron group. Finally, only 43% of the ondansetron-treated patients required a "rescue" antiemetic compared with 86% in the placebo group. Thus, ondansetron (8 mg IV) was associated with a decreased incidence of nausea and vomiting after outpatient laparoscopic procedures. 
The rhombotin family of cysteine-rich LIM-domain oncogenes: distinct members are involved in T-cell translocations to human chromosomes 11p15 and 11p13. A chromosomal translocation in a T-cell leukemia involving the short arm of human chromosome 11 at band 11p15 disrupts the rhombotin gene. This gene encodes a protein with duplicated cysteine-rich regions called LIM domains, which show homology to zinc-binding proteins and to iron-sulfur centers of ferredoxins. Two homologues of the rhombotin gene have now been isolated. One of these, designated Rhom-2, is located on human chromosome 11 at band 11p13, where a cluster of T-cell leukemia-specific translocations occur; all translocation breakpoints at 11p13 are upstream of the Rhom-2 gene. Human and mouse Rhom-2 are highly conserved and, like rhombotin, encode two tandem cysteine-rich LIM domains. Rhom-2 mRNA is expressed in early mouse development in central nervous system, lung, kidney, liver, and spleen but only very low levels occur in thymus. The other gene, designated Rhom-3, is not on chromosome 11 but also retains homology to the LIM domain of rhombotin. Since the Rhom-2 gene is such a common site of chromosomal damage in T-cell tumors, the consistency of translocations near the rhombotin gene was further examined. A second translocation adjacent to rhombotin was found and at the same position as in the previous example. Therefore, chromosome bands 11p15 (rhombotin) and 11p13 (Rhom-2) are consistent sites of chromosome translocation in T-cell leukemia, with the 11p15 target more rarely involved. The results define the rhombotin gene family as a class of T-cell oncogenes with duplicated cysteine-rich LIM domains. 
Racial differences in responses to thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. Increased fibrin(ogen)olysis in blacks. The Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction Study Group. To determine whether there are differences in responses to thrombolytic therapy in certain populations, the data for the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (phase 1) study were analyzed for black and white patients. Baseline variables including risk factors and extent of coronary artery disease were similar in the 352 white and 24 black patients. The time from onset of chest pain to recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) therapy and rt-PA dosing regimens were the same in the two groups. The patency rate of the infarct-related artery at 90 minutes was 91% for blacks and was 72% for whites (p = 0.051). Blacks displayed significantly lower nadir fibrinogen levels (0.57 +/- 0.62 versus 1.3 +/- 0.76 g/l, p less than 0.0001), greater delta fibrinogen (baseline-nadir) (2.7 +/- 1.1 versus 1.7 +/- 1.1 g/l, p less than 0.0001), and increased peak levels of fibrin(ogen) degradation products (837 +/- 865 versus 245 +/- 475 micrograms/ml, p less than 0.0001). rt-PA antigen levels tended to be higher in blacks than in whites (2.8 +/- 2.2 versus 2.2 +/- 3.2 micrograms/ml [p = 0.10] at the peak and 1.6 +/- 1.3 versus 0.99 +/- 1.4 micrograms/ml [p = 0.06] at the end of the maintenance infusion). Major clinical outcomes including survival until time of hospital discharge (92% black versus 93% white, p = 0.68) were not significantly different. However, despite undergoing fewer angioplasty procedures (25% versus 46.3%, p = 0.047), blacks received more transfusions (58.8% versus 19.5% were administered greater than or equal to 2 units packed erythrocytes, p = 0.001). 
Cutaneous silica granuloma. A rare entity or rarely diagnosed? Report of two cases with review of the literature. Cutaneous silica granuloma is a poorly understood, uncommon condition that may mimic cutaneous sarcoidosis. We describe two cases of this entity and their characteristic latency period (between the time of silica exposure to the time of clinical onset of granuloma). We also review the histologic and energy dispersive x-ray analysis data, which prove the diagnosis. This condition should be recognized as an occupational dermatosis as well as the result of past incidental cuts or abrasions, which result in the development of granulomas, many in old wound scars. Differentiation from cutaneous sarcoidosis is possible with polarized light microscopy and energy-dispersive x-ray analysis. 
Congenital keratinizing desquamative squamous epithelium of the entire urinary tract. We report the clinical and pathological findings of a case of congenital desquamative squamous epithelium of the entire urinary tract associated with body dysmorphism. This entity has not been described previously in the literature. 
High-dose epinephrine improves the return of spontaneous circulation rates in human victims of cardiac arrest. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the return of spontaneous circulation (RSC) rates in human victims of cardiac arrest treated with standard doses of epinephrine (SDE) or high-dose epinephrine (HDE). DESIGN: Prospective case series. SETTING: A university hospital emergency department during 1987 through 1989. PARTICIPANTS: Forty-nine adult victims of nontraumatic cardiac arrest. INTERVENTIONS: At the discretion of the treating physician, patients received epinephrine in bolus doses ranging from 1 to 15 mg. HDE was defined as a dose of at least 0.2 mg/kg; smaller doses were defined as SDE. Patients were grouped as +RSC if they developed a sustained spontaneous palpable pulse or blood pressure and as -RSC if they did not develop a pulse or blood pressure. MEASUREMENTS: Patients were grouped as +RSC if they developed a sustained spontaneous palpable pulse or blood pressure and as -RSC if they did not develop a pulse or blood pressure. Patients were also grouped by their presenting rhythm. Potentially perfusing rhythm was electromechanical dissociation or ventricular tachycardia. Nonperfusing rhythm was asystole or ventricular fibrillation. Rates were analyzed using the Fisher exact test and the two-tailed unpaired t test. HDE improved the rate of initial resuscitation (P = .008). The effect was greatest in patients with nonperfusing rhythms (P = .014) and disappeared when evaluating patients with potentially perfusing rhythms. No patient survived to hospital discharge. CONCLUSION: High-dose epinephrine improves initial resuscitation rates in human victims of cardiac arrest. Its greatest effect is in patients with a nonperfusing rhythm. 
Comparison of needle aspiration cytologic diagnosis with excisional biopsy tissue diagnosis of palpable tumors of the breast in a community hospital. Fine needle aspiration cytologic examination has not extensively been used in our hospital in the work-up evaluation of solid tumors of the breast and its reliability as a basis on which to perform definitive treatment of carcinoma of the breast was in question. One hundred and five aspiration cytologic specimens were obtained from palpable solid tumors of the breast just prior to excisional biopsy. Specimens were numbered and submitted to three different staff pathologists for diagnosis in a single blind manner. Results were then compared with tissue diagnosis of the same tumors. Of 105 specimens taken at biopsy of the breast, 28 malignant lesions were diagnosed on the final tissue report. Of those, ten were diagnosed as malignant (Class V), two were highly suspicious (Class IV) and six were insufficient specimens (Class O). Of those diagnosed as class IV and V by the results of cytologic examination, all were malignant on permanent section for a specificity of 100 per cent and a sensitivity of 36 per cent. The cytologic diagnoses of Classes I, II and III did not correlate with any histologic report, benign or malignant. Malignant growths were misdiagnosed by cytologic examination in 36 per cent and missed because of inadequate specimens in 28 per cent. We believe that a Class V cytologic finding is sufficient basis on which to perform definitive treatment of carcinoma of the breast provided rigid criteria are used. There is a learning curve associated with this diagnostic modality. 
Diabetes-induced alterations in atrial natriuretic peptide gene expression in Wistar-Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats. We investigated the effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) synthesis, hemodynamic parameters, blood volume, and histopathology, as well as the reversibility of such effects with insulin therapy in Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). The biatrial ANP messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in the diabetic WKY rats increased by 16-17% compared with those in the age-matched WKY rats at 12 weeks after the onset of diabetes, whereas their ventricular ANP mRNA levels showed increases of 190% in left ventricles and 160% in right ventricles at 8 weeks. In the diabetic SHRs, the left atrial ANP mRNA levels increased by 36% compared with those in the age-matched SHRs, as early as 4 weeks after diabetes onset. Their ventricular ANP mRNA levels also showed 80-82% increases in left and right ventricles at 4 weeks. In proportion to changes in cardiac ANP synthesis, the biventricular end-diastolic pressures were significantly elevated at 8 weeks in the diabetic WKY rats and at 4 weeks in the diabetic SHRs. The blood volume significantly increased at 8 weeks in the diabetic WKY rats and remained higher thereafter, whereas it did not change in the diabetic SHRs throughout the experimental period. The left ventricular peak dP/dt was depressed in the 8-week diabetic SHRs, whereas in the diabetic WKY rats, its depression was observed at 12 weeks after diabetes onset. Histopathological studies showed that diabetic changes in ANP synthesis and hemodynamic parameters described above occurred before the cardiomyopathic histological changes. Cardiac ANP synthesis in the diabetic rats completely reverted to control levels after insulin therapy, accompanied by normalization of hemodynamic parameters. The present study indicates that 1) ANP synthesis is significantly augmented in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat compared with that in the normal rat, and the combination of diabetes and hypertension produces an earlier and greater effect in stimulating cardiac ANP synthesis than does either disease alone; 2) an elevation in the intraventricular filling pressure that occurs before observable cardiomyopathic histopathological alterations might be involved partially in the augmented ANP synthesis; and 3) the reversibility with insulin therapy suggests that the streptozotocin-induced alterations observed in cardiac ANP synthesis and hemodynamics result from insulin-deficient diabetes mellitus, not from cardiac toxicity of streptozotocin. 
Lack of effect of peroral acyclovir for the treatment of acute infectious mononucleosis. Perorally administered acyclovir was evaluated in the therapy of acute infectious mononucleosis in a multicentered, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. A total of 120 patients received 600 mg of acyclovir or placebo five times daily for 10 days. All patients were entered into the study within 7 days of symptom onset and had a positive Monospot test. Analysis of mean values and time to resolution of fever, lymphadenopathy, weight change, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, liver function tests, atypical lymphocytes, hours of bed rest, sense of well-being, and return to normal activities revealed no significant differences. There was a trend toward suppression of Epstein-Barr virus excretion in the oropharynx in acyclovir recipients. No toxicity was detected in patients treated with acyclovir. Under the conditions of the study, there was no evidence that treatment with perorally administered acyclovir affected the course of infectious mononucleosis. 
Eicosapentanoic acid suppresses intimal hyperplasia after expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafting in rabbits fed a high cholesterol diet. The effect of purified eicosapentanoic acid on intimal fibrous hyperplasia in expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts was examined in 18 rabbits undergoing infrarenal aorta reconstruction. Six rabbits received commercial rabbit chow (control group), six a regular diet supplemented with 1% cholesterol (cholesterol group), and six the cholesterol diet with 91.1% pure eicosapentanoic acid 500 mg/day (eicosapentanoic acid group). Grafts were harvested 3 months after surgery for histologic examination. The platelet count and serum beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor 4 concentrations were not significantly different between groups. Serum arachidonic acid level in the cholesterol group was significantly higher than in the control group, and serum eicosapentanoic acid levels in the eicosapentanoic acid group were significantly higher than in the remaining two groups. Intergroup differences in serum 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha and thromboxane B2 concentrations were not significant. Intimal thickness at midgraft was 5.2 +/- 6.2 microns in the control group, 67.6 +/- 46.9 microns in the cholesterol group, and 19.2 +/- 18.4 microns in the eicosapntanoic acid group. intimal thickness in the cholesterol group was greater than in either the control or licosapentanoic acid group (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05, respectively). These data suggest that eicosapentanoic acid reduces intimal fibrous proliferation in expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafting as a result of hypercholesterolemia and that this effect is independent of the platelet count, activated platelet factors, and the prostacyclin/thromboxane A2 ratio. 
Transforming growth factor alpha expression helps to distinguish keratoacanthomas from squamous cell carcinomas. Keratoacanthomas may be difficult to distinguish histologically from squamous cell carcinomas. We studied 20 keratocanthomas and 22 squamous cell carcinomas immunohistochemically using an antibody directed against transforming growth factor alpha to determine if the pattern of transforming growth factor alpha expression would provide a useful method of differentiating these tumors. Ninety percent of the keratoacanthomas demonstrated a diffuse pattern within tumor lobules in which all but the most peripheral rim of cells were stained. A similar localization of transforming growth factor alpha was not identified in squamous cell carcinomas. In addition, 40% of the squamous cell carcinomas but none of the keratoacanthomas showed focal transforming growth factor alpha immunostaining. Our results suggest that transforming growth factor alpha expression may be a marker of epithelial differentiation and may help distinguish between these two tumors. 
Endocarditis prophylaxis in a primary care clinic. BACKGROUND. Primary care physicians often make decisions about the use of endocarditis prophylaxis (EP). Compliance with American Heart Association (AHA) recommendations has been found to be poor in hospitalized patients and in a dental school clinic. The purpose of this study was to examine the use of endocarditis prophylaxis in a primary care clinic. METHODS. The problem list of all adult patients seen in a primary care clinic in 1989 was reviewed for diagnoses that might require EP. Eighty-four charts were identified and reviewed. RESULTS. Sixty-five percent of the study patients had documentation in their charts about the need for EP. Mitral valve prolapse was the most frequent diagnosis. The physicians recommended EP for most patients with mitral valve prolapse regardless of whether there was documented mitral insufficiency. Endocarditis prophylaxis was most commonly prescribed for dental procedures. Six patients received prophylaxis for procedures for which the AHA does not recommend prophylaxis. Only 19% of the antibiotic regimens prescribed were entirely consistent with the AHA 1984 guidelines. The most common deviation from the AHA guidelines was continuing oral antibiotics too long. CONCLUSIONS. Compliance with the AHA 1984 recommendations, although better than reported in other settings, was less than optimal in this primary care clinic. Family physicians should consider whether EP is indicated in any patient with cardiac disease. If prophylaxis is indicated, then such a recommendation should be clearly documented in the chart. Family physicians need to be familiar with the 1990 AHA recommendations. 
A clinical and experimental study on all-trans retinoic acid-treated acute promyelocytic leukemia patients. Fifty patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) have been treated with all-trans retinoic acid (RA). In vitro induced differentiation of primarily cultured bone marrow cells from the patients, colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) and L-CFU colony-forming assays, and karyotype analysis were performed over the treatment course. The very high bone marrow complete remission (CR) rate (94%) suggested that all-trans RA was superior to conventional chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of APL. The leukemic clone was reduced by RA-induced terminal differentiation and loss of proliferation capacity of leukemic cells. Relapse after CR in about 40% of patients was the major reason for the failure of the RA treatment. Patients who relapsed after a chemotherapy-maintained CR could be effectively reinduced to second CR by RA. However, if relapse occurred after a CR maintained by both RA and chemotherapy, the sensitivity of newly emerged leukemic clones to RA was greatly reduced. Therefore, it is suggested that RA should be replaced by conventional chemotherapy as soon as CR is achieved. Laboratory studies proved valuable in selecting cases for RA therapy and in predicting therapeutic effects and prognosis. 
Newer variants and simulants of basal cell carcinoma. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) has characteristic clinical and histopathologic findings that facilitate accurate diagnosis. There are, however, many variants and simulants of BCC that may cause clinical and/or histopathologic confusion. These entities often have features in common with BCC, with nodular or sclerosing basaloid islands, peripheral palisading, stromal retraction, (pseudo)-glandular formation, and/or prominent mucin. Recently described BCC variants, including signet-ring BCC and granular cell BCC, are discussed. Less commonly appreciated basaloid simulants, including ameloblastoma, cloacogenic carcinoma, and mucinous carcinoma, are described. Distinguishing among these variants and simulants of BCC is important because treatment and prognosis of each may vary. 
Serum testosterone:dihydrotestosterone ratio and CA 19-9 in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. The testosterone:dihydrotestosterone ratio (T:DHT) and the antigenic marker CA 19-9 were studied in the serum of 21 male patients with pancreatic cancer and 62 controls with other gastrointestinal malignancies or benign pancreatobiliary disease. Specificity of the T:DHT ratio was 98%, significantly better than the specificity of CA 19-9 at both a 37 U/ml cutoff level (61%) and at 100 U/ml (79%). Sensitivity of the T:DHT ratio was 67%, and that of CA 19-9, 71% and 90% at the upper and lower cutoff levels, respectively. False-negative results of the T:DHT ratio were found predominantly in cases of advanced pancreatic cancer, whereas all four stage I patients had an abnormal (less than 5) T:DHT ratio. These results suggest that the T:DHT ratio is a useful marker for pancreatic cancer in males. It can be used alone or in combination with CA 19-9, and should be further evaluated in the differential diagnosis of patients with the early stages of this disease. 
Localization and needle aspiration of breast lesions: complications in 370 cases. A prospective study of the immediate complications of 370 consecutive breast-imaging procedures (203 wire localizations and 167 radiographically or sonographically guided fine-needle aspirations) is reported. Vasovagal reactions occurred in 27 (7%) of 370 cases, ranging in severity from syncope (four of 370, 1%) to mild light-headedness. These vasovagal reactions were independent of procedure type or use of local anesthesia, but were more common in younger patients. Other complications included prolonged (5 min or longer) bleeding (three of 370, 1%) and extreme pain (two of 370, 1%). One patient was found to have malignant hypertension. We conclude that wire localizations and imaging-guided aspirations are generally well tolerated procedures. However, vasovagal reactions are frequent enough to warrant close observation of patients. Radiologists and breast-imaging personnel should be able to recognize and treat vasovagal reactions. 
Isradipine for treatment of acute hypertension after myocardial revascularization. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and duration of action of iv isradipine in the control of postoperative hypertension immediately after myocardial revascularization. DESIGN: Prospective, phase 2 trial. SETTING: Surgical ICU, university hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-one (15 male, six female) patients, ages 49 to 75 yr (mean 65 +/- 5), undergoing elective myocardial revascularization. INTERVENTIONS: Twenty-one patients with postoperative hypertension after coronary artery bypass graft surgery received iv isradipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium-channel antagonist. Mean duration of the isradipine infusion was 96.9 +/- 29 min. Mean dose of isradipine, indexed to weight, was 16.63 +/- 6.66 micrograms/kg (n = 20). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty of the 21 patients achieved satisfactory BP control. The reduction in mean arterial pressure (MAP), first noted at the 15-min point, was maximal at 1 hr when MAP decreased from 102 +/- 9 mm Hg baseline to 81 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than .01), accompanied by a significant (p less than .01) decrease in systemic vascular resistance from 1753 +/- 339 baseline to 1180 +/- 229 dyne.sec/cm5. The CVP, pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure did not change significantly. Heart rate and cardiac index increased; however, stroke volume index did not change. CONCLUSIONS: Isradipine is an acceptable agent for the treatment of hypertension in this setting. 
Lipolytic response to metabolic stress in critically ill patients. OBJECTIVE: To measure whole-body lipolysis and fatty acid re-esterification in critically ill patients. DESIGN: The rates of appearance of glycerol and palmitic acid in blood plasma were measured by infusing stable isotope tracers [2H5]glycerol and [1-13C]palmitic acid, respectively. Energy expenditure was measured by indirect calorimetry. SETTING: Medical ICU of The University of Texas Medical Branch Hospital, a university-based referral center. PATIENTS: Five uninjured critically ill patients. Four patients were hospitalized because of respiratory insufficiency and one because of myocardial infarction. Three patients died during their hospitalization. INTERVENTIONS: Metabolic studies were performed in each patient after an overnight (12-hr) fast. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean +/- SE glycerol and fatty acid rates of appearance were 4.5 +/- 1.0 and 11.5 +/- 0.8 mumol/kg.min, respectively. The ratio of fatty acid to glycerol rate of appearance was 2.9 +/- 0.5. Resting energy expenditure was 132 +/- 6% of predicted. CONCLUSIONS: An accelerated rate of lipolysis is part of the metabolic response to severe stress, regardless of its etiology. Because the rate of fatty acid release far exceeded energy requirements, fatty acids that were not oxidized as fuel were re-esterified to triglyceride, presumably in the liver. 
Prediction of uneventful cardioversion and maintenance of sinus rhythm from direct-current electrical cardioversion of chronic atrial fibrillation and flutter. The present study was undertaken to reassess prospectively the immediate and long-term results of direct-current electrical cardioversion in chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, and to determine factors predicting clinical outcome of the arrhythmia after direct-current cardioversion. Two-hundred forty-six patients underwent direct-current electrical cardioversion and were followed during a mean of 260 days. Multivariate analysis was used to identify factors predicting short- and long-term arrhythmia outcome. Cardioversion was achieved in 70% of patients with atrial fibrillation and in 96% of patients with atrial flutter. Stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that arrhythmia duration (p less than 0.001), type of arrhythmia (fibrillation vs flutter, p less than 0.02) and age (p less than 0.05) independently influenced conversion rate. On an actuarial basis, 42 and 36% of patients remained in sinus rhythm during 1 and 2 years, respectively. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that the type of arrhythmia (p = 0.0008), low precardioversion functional class (p = 0.002) and the presence of nonrheumatic mitral valve disease (p = 0.03) independently increased the length of the arrhythmia-free episode. Rheumatic heart disease shortened this period (p = 0.03). In conclusion, patients having a high probability of conversion together with a prolonged post-shock arrhythmia-free episode can be identified. This may improve the cost-benefit ratio of cardioversion. 
Serum sialic acid levels in patients with oral and maxillofacial malignancy. Serum sialic acid levels were measured using the thiobarbituric acid method in 80 healthy subjects and in 40 patients with benign and 61 with malignant tumors in the oral and maxillofacial region. It was shown that the cancer group had statistically higher sialic acid levels than control group and the group with benign disease (P less than .05), but no significant difference was noted between the normal control group and the patients with benign tumor (P greater than .05). Serum sialic acid levels were significantly higher in the patients with stages III and IV cancer than in those individuals with stage I and II cancer, but no differences were seen between stages I and II, and between stages III and IV cancer patients (P greater than .05). There was also no difference when considering the anatomic site of the malignant lesion. Furthermore, during the serial sialic acid determination in cancer patients before and following treatment, the sialic acid levels usually declined with remission of the disease and increased with recurrence, metastasis, or a poor prognosis. We conclude from this study that the sequential measurement of sialic acid level is particularly useful in monitoring patients with oral cancer, and sialic acid may prove to be a valuable tumor marker in oral and maxillofacial malignancy. 
Renoduodenal fistula in a patient with chronic nephrostomy drainage: a case report. We describe the occurrence of a renoduodenal fistula related to a nephrostomy tube in a patient with xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis and renal calculi. The patient was successfully treated by nephrectomy. Etiological, diagnostic and therapeutic aspects are discussed. 
Gallstone formation after major abdominal surgery. 84 patients underwent multiple abdominal ultrasound examinations over a median of 36 months (range 6-140). 11 had gallstones at their first ultrasound examination, and were excluded from further analysis. Of the remaining 73 patients, 12 of 47 who underwent major abdominal surgery had gallstones within 14-36 months of operation, compared with 0 of 26 who did not undergo such surgery. The cumulative prevalence of new gallstones within 3 years of major surgery was 28%; no new gallstones were seen from 36 to up to 140 months postoperatively. By univariate and logistic regression analysis, age and major abdominal surgery were the only significant clinical determinants for the appearance of gallstones during follow-up. The findings of this retrospective study indicate that major abdominal surgery may accelerate the development of gallstones in some patients. If confirmed in a prospective study, it may be possible to define groups at high risk of gallstones after surgery and to institute prophylactic measures. 
Nonepileptic events in childhood. The medical records of 27 children admitted to the MINCEP Epilepsy Program for evaluation of intractable epilepsy but later shown to have nonepileptic events by EEG with simultaneous video monitoring were reviewed. Four groups were identified: pure psychogenic events (5 patients), psychogenic events plus epileptic seizures (3 patients), pure nonepileptic physiologic events (5 patients), and nonepileptic physiologic events plus seizures (14 patients). Historical data, physical examinations, and neurodiagnostic evaluations (including previous EEGs, neuroradiologic evaluations, and neuropsychologic testing) were reviewed. Children in all groups, except for those with pure psychogenic seizures, had a history of multiple seizure types identified by parents or caretakers. A history of status epilepticus was obtained in 64% (of 22 patients), including 11 of 14 patients with physiologic events plus seizures. Abnormal findings on neurologic examination were common, especially in children with nonepileptic physiologic events. All but two patients had a history of interictal epileptiform abnormalities on previous routine EEGs. Based on identification of nonepileptic events, antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were discontinued completely in eight patients (30%) and the total number of AEDs was reduced in nine others (33%). A diagnosis of nonepileptic events should be considered in all children with refractory seizures or multiple seizure types. Abnormal findings on routine (interictal) EEG may actually confound the diagnosis. Intensive neurodiagnostic EEG-video recording is the preferred method for distinguishing nonepileptic from epileptic seizures. 
Metabolic consequences of (regional) total pancreatectomy. Little information has been reported on the metabolic characteristics of the totally pancreatectomized patient or the efficacy of medical management after radical pancreatic surgery. The prospective evaluation of 49 such patients, with 31% followed for 48 or more months, forms the basis of this report. The major immediate postoperative challenge is control of diarrhea and weight stabilization. Chronically patients have an increased daily caloric requirement (mean +/- SE, 56 +/- 1 kcal/kg), not wholly explained by moderate steatorrhea (fecal fat excretion, 16% +/- 2% of unrestricted fat intake). Despite persistent malabsorption, deficiencies in fat-soluble vitamin, magnesium, and trace element serum levels can be prevented in most patients. Pancreatogenic diabetes is characterized by (1) absence of the major glucoregulatory hormones insulin and glucagon, (2) instability, and (3) frequent hypoglycemia, with the latter parameters improving with rigorous home glucose monitoring. No patient has developed clinically overt diabetic micro- or macrovascular disease. Performance status in long-term survivors has been reasonable. However adverse chronic sequelae of the operation occur and include an unusual frequency of liver disease, characterized by accelerated fatty infiltration, and osteopenia, with an 18% reduction in radial bone mineral content noted in pancreatectomized patients studied more than 5 years after surgery. 
Ultrasonography of acute abdominal pain in children. OBJECTIVE.--To determine the ability of ultrasonography to detect appendicitis and to identify other conditions responsible for symptoms in children with acute abdominal pain. DESIGN.--Cohort study. The accuracy of ultrasonographic results was assessed in relation to final diagnoses established by surgery or by composite clinical data and follow-up. SETTING.--Metropolitan, pediatric hospital; ambulatory and hospitalized patients. PATIENTS.--Consecutive sample of 178 pediatric patients who were referred for ultrasonography because of suspected acute appendicitis, but in whom the diagnosis could not be definitively established by clinical criteria. RESULTS.--Appendicitis was proven at surgery in 38 patients. Ultrasonography demonstrated the findings of appendicitis (noncompressible appendix with or without concomitant periappendiceal fluid collection or appendicolith) in 31 (82%) of these patients. Among the 140 children without appendicitis, other specific diagnoses were established by clinical, laboratory, and radiologic findings in 58 patients (including gynecologic diseases in 25, gastrointestinal tract abnormalities in 17, renal diseases in six, and extra-abdominal disease in 10). Ultrasonography aided in the diagnosis of other conditions in 34 (59%) of these 58 patients. No definitive clinical diagnosis was established in the remaining 82 patients. There were no false-positive results of ultrasonography. CONCLUSION.--Approximately half of children referred for suspected appendicitis will have a final diagnosis of abdominal pain of unknown origin. In the remainder, ultrasonography is useful, both to establish the diagnosis of appendicitis and to aid in diagnosing other causes of acute abdominal pain. 
Preneoplastic alterations in nuclear morphology that accompany loss of tumor suppressor phenotype. Alterations of nuclear shape are frequently observed in tumor cells, but the genes controlling these changes and the stage in the neoplastic process at which they occur are unknown. We have studied nuclear shape changes in chemically immortalized, nontumorigenic Syrian hamster embryo cell clones that had either retained (supB+) or lost (supB-) the ability to suppress the tumorigenic phenotype when they were hybridized with a tumor cell line (BP6T). Quantitative morphometric analysis of the nuclei of cells from each of two pairs of supB+/supB- variants indicated that the nuclei of supB- cells were significantly more out of round than those of their corresponding supB+ clones. These data indicate that modification of nuclear structure may represent an early, preneoplastic event in multistep chemical carcinogenesis and that loss of a tumor suppressor gene function may regulate alterations in nuclear morphology. 
Expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin (EXCEL) study results: IV. Additional perspectives on the tolerability of lovastatin. This randomized, double-blind, multicenter, diet-and-placebo-controlled study was designed to clarify the dose-response relationship of lovastatin therapy to lipid-modifying efficacy and drug-related adverse events. Exclusion criteria were minimized so that study patients were representative of the majority of patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia seen in medical practice. After 6 weeks on the American Heart Association Step 1 Diet, a total of 8,245 patients were randomly assigned to 48 weeks of treatment with diet and placebo or lovastatin at dosages of 20 or 40 mg once a day or 20 or 40 mg twice a day. All adverse events were monitored, with particular attention to evaluation of liver and muscle. Liver transaminase elevations suggestive of possible hepatotoxicity, defined as successive elevations in either aspartate transaminase or alanine aminotransferase greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal, occurred in equal numbers of placebo and lovastatin 20 mg/day treated patients (0.1%). The frequencies were higher in lovastatin 40 mg/day and 80 mg/day patient groups (0.9 and 1.5%, respectively). No patient was diagnosed as having clinically symptomatic hepatic dysfunction. Creatinine kinase (CK) elevations above the upper limit of normal occurred frequently in placebo- (29%), as well as lovastatin-treated patients (29-35%), and muscle symptoms were reported with similar frequency in all groups (7-9%). The combination of muscle symptoms with marked CK elevations (greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal) was seen in only five patients: one in a 40 mg/day dose group and four in the 80 mg/day dose group. No patient developed rhabdomyolysis. The incidence of clinical and laboratory adverse events requiring discontinuation was 6% for the placebo group and from 7% (20 mg/day) to 9% (80 mg/day) for lovastatin treatment groups. No new types of adverse experiences related to lovastatin treatment were reported. Lovastatin, as an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated LDL cholesterol, was generally very well tolerated. 
Unusual diffuse pulmonary lymphatic proliferation in a young boy. We describe a 4-year-old boy who died of an unusual generalized pulmonary lymphatic proliferation. His condition cannot clearly be categorized with any of the previously described pulmonary lymphatic disorders. 
View from beneath: pathology in focus. ENT presentation of Ollier's disease. Cartilaginous tumours occurring in the head and neck are usually regarded and seen as solitary lesions. However, we present an unique case where the cartilaginous tumour in the ENT region was the presenting feature of Ollier's disease (multiple enchondromatosis). It is recommended that further investigations be carried out in patients with cartilaginous tumours presenting in the head and neck to exclude the possible presence of this unusual and interesting syndrome. 
Hypoxia-inducible nuclear factors bind to an enhancer element located 3' to the human erythropoietin gene. Human erythropoietin gene expression in liver and kidney is inducible by anemia or hypoxia. DNase I-hypersensitive sites were identified 3' to the human erythropoietin gene in liver nuclei. A 256-base-pair region of 3' flanking sequence was shown by DNase I protection and electrophoretic mobility-shift assays to bind four or more different nuclear factors, at least two of which are induced by anemia in both liver and kidney, and the region functioned as a hypoxia-inducible enhancer in transient expression assays. These results provide insight into the molecular basis for the regulation of gene expression by a fundamental physiologic stimulus, hypoxia. 
Primary pulmonary hypertension. Dyspnea is the most common symptom of primary pulmonary hypertension, an often fatal disease that has no apparent cause. Decreased cardiac output, congestive heart failure, and increased systemic venous pressure occur as the disease progresses. Use of oxygen therapy and vasodilators improves the prognosis in some patients. Those with little hope for long-term survival may benefit from heart and lung transplantation. 
Perceptual filling in of artificially induced scotomas in human vision. Patients with scotomas or blind-spots in their visual field resulting from damage to the visual pathways often report that the pattern from the rest of the visual field 'fills in' to occupy the scotoma. Here we describe a novel technique for generating an artificial perceptual scotoma which enabled us to study the spatial and temporal characteristics of this filling-in process. A homogeneous grey square subtending 1.5 degrees was displayed against a background of twinkling two-dimensional noise of equal mean luminance. On steady eccentric fixation for 10 s the square vanished and was filled in by the twinkling noise from the surround. Using this display we found that 'filling in' is an active visual process that probably involves creating an actual neural representation of the surround rather than merely ignoring the absence of information from the scotoma; filling in can occur separately for colour and texture, suggesting separate mechanisms; the filling-in process does not completely suppress information from the scotoma, even after an image has faded completely from consciousness it can nevertheless contribute to motion perception; and the process can be strongly influenced by illusory contours. 
Anal endosonography in the investigation of faecal incontinence. Forty-four consecutive patients with incontinence of solid stool of traumatic or idiopathic aetiology were examined by anal endosonography and standard anorectal physiology tests. Anal endosonography showed an external anal sphincter defect in four out of 11 (36 per cent) patients with idiopathic (neurogenic) incontinence. In the remaining seven patients both parts of the sphincter were intact and a linear relationship was found between the resting anal canal pressure and the endosonographic thickness of the internal anal sphincter. Twenty-eight out of 33 (85 per cent) patients with incontinence of traumatic origin had external sphincter defects, confirmed by concentric needle electromyogram mapping in the 19 patients in whom this was performed. Eleven of these 28 (39 per cent) patients also had disruption of the internal sphincter. Anal endosonography has revealed significant abnormalities in patients with faecal incontinence and has a complementary role to anorectal physiology in the routine investigation of these patients. 
Appendicitis. Improvements in diagnosis and treatment. The results of therapy in cases of suspected acute appendicitis were reviewed in 844 consecutive cases of appendicitis occurring over a 3-year period. A diagnostic accuracy of 87.4 per cent was found as well as a perforation rate of 18.4 per cent. Complication rates varied with the clinical state of the appendix: 16 per cent in perforated, 5.6 per cent in nonperforated, and 11.3 per cent in normal appendices. Excellent results were routinely obtainable employing early operative intervention, perioperative antibiotics, and a systematic surgical approach. 
Duodenocaval fistula in peptic ulceration. Duodenocaval fistula is usually caused by abdominal trauma. We report a patient in whom it was associated with peptic ulcer. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma, alcohol, and cirrhosis: facts and hypotheses. Despite the epidemiological evidence of a correlation between ethanol abuse and hepatocellular carcinoma, some of the results of experimental and clinical studies remain controversial. Apart from inducing cirrhosis, which may be viewed as a precancerous liver lesion, ethanol may act as a cocarcinogen. Most investigations on this topic have focused on two aspects: ethanol's capacity to induce the cytochrome P-450-dependent microsomal biotransformation system and its interference with at least one DNA repair mechanism. Ethanol exposure enhances the capacity of mixed function oxidases to activate many chemical carcinogens, such as dimethylnitrosamine (DMN). On the other hand, ethanol exposure fails to influence DMN-induced liver carcinogenesis. The capacity of alcohol to inhibit DMN-demethylase activity has not been clearly demonstrated in experiments carried out with human tissue. In conclusion, both the effects of ethanol and their underlying mechanisms as regards liver carcinogenesis are open to debate. The link between ethanol abuse and hepatocellular carcinoma appears to be mediated mainly by its capacity to induce cirrhosis. 
Gastric carcinoma in patients with Crohn disease: report of four cases. An association between Crohn disease and gastric carcinoma has not been described before. However, we report four patients with documented Crohn disease in whom gastric carcinoma developed later. In three of the four patients, onset of Crohn disease occurred after the age of 40. All of the patients had nonspecific constitutional symptoms and/or complaints referable to the upper gastrointestinal tract. No clinical evidence of active Crohn disease was present. In each patient, barium examination and CT showed either a mass (two cases) or other radiologic features of malignancy (two cases). Endoscopy with biopsy was performed in three patients and findings were misleading in two patients. The possibility of an increased risk of malignancy in sites remote from inflamed bowel segments has been reported. The findings in this study suggest that patients with Crohn disease, particularly disease of late onset, may be predisposed to the development of gastric carcinoma. 
Cardiovascular causes of syncope. Identifying and controlling trigger mechanisms. Syncope usually has a cardiovascular source, so neurologic evaluation has a low diagnostic yield in these patients. Cardiac arrhythmias in persons with or without structural heart disease can produce syncope. Neurocardiogenic dysfunction that results in diminished venous return and hypercontractility is another frequent cause. Postural hypotension or left ventricular outflow obstruction may also be to blame. Careful history taking and physical examination, head-up tilt testing, echocardiography or radionuclide isotope imaging, and electrophysiologic study are often diagnostic. However, syncope remains undiagnosed in some patients, and they may require periodic reassessment. Treatment options are available for most cardiovascular disorders, among them use of pharmacologic agents; catheter, surgical, or radio-frequency modification of certain tachycardias; and permanent pacing. 
Acute ethanol intoxication decreases the likelihood of resuscitation from cardiac arrest in rats. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Acute ethanol intoxication has been shown to depress myocardial performance in both laboratory and clinical studies. The present study was designed to examine the effect of acute ethanol intoxication on resuscitation of rats subjected to cardiac arrest. Rats were given 1.2 g ("moderately intoxicated") or 2.4 g ("highly intoxicated") of ethanol/kg, or distilled water ("nonintoxicated" rats). Using a standardized technique, we induced cardiac arrest. CPR was then attempted using chest compressions interposed with abdominal compressions. Resuscitation was said to be successful if BP returned spontaneously within 6 mins of institution of chest compressions interposed with abdominal compressions, and if systolic BP was 50% of its prearrest level within 10 mins of discontinuation of chest compressions interposed with abdominal compressions. Mean +/- SD serum ethanol levels were 121.3 +/- 12.9 mg/dL (26.3 +/- 2.8 mmol/L) (moderately intoxicated rats) and 254.4 +/- 34.6 mg/dL (55.2 +/- 7.5 mmol/L) (highly intoxicated rats). RESULTS: Resuscitation was successful in 75% (15/20) of nonintoxicated rats, 46.7% (7/15) of moderately intoxicated rats, and 33.3% (5/15) of highly intoxicated rats. The difference in resuscitation rates was significant for nonintoxicated rats compared with either intoxicated rats as a group (p = .021) or highly intoxicated rats (p = .019), but was not significant for nonintoxicated rats compared with moderately intoxicated rats. CONCLUSION: Acute ethanol intoxication appears to decrease the likelihood of successful resuscitation in a dose-dependent fashion. 
Composite tissue transfer in limb-salvage surgery. After extensive resection due to extremity sarcoma, the inability to cover the defect for satisfactory healing and limb function has been an indication for amputation rather than limb salvage. We report herein our experience with seven limb-salvage cases in which we closed difficult and complex defects with composite tissue transfers utilizing microvascular techniques. Free-flap transfers were used to cover soft-tissue defects after extensive resection of primary and locally recurrent tumor and to manage radiation-induced complications. The grafts healed well when infected irradiated tissue was covered, and the grafts tolerated postoperative irradiation. Composite tissue transfer also provided soft-tissue coverage around distal joints that would not have been adequately protected with a skin graft. Complications were minimal, and all patients maintained good extremity function. No patient who underwent composite tissue transfer has had a local recurrence. A free-flap composite tissue transfer can extend the indications for limb-salvage surgery and offers an alternative to amputation in selected patients. 
Clostridial mycotic aneurysm of the suprarenal abdominal aorta. Clostridial mycotic aneurysms are unusual. We therefore record a fatal case of a ruptured clostridial mycotic aneurysm of the suprarenal aorta which developed several weeks after the resection of a segment of gangrenous small bowel. 
Single-photon emission computed tomographic thallium imaging with adenosine, dipyridamole, and exercise. Stress thallium imaging is a sensitive technique for detecting coronary artery disease, particularly in those patients with multivessel disease. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is superior to planar imaging; because of improved image quality and lack of overlap between normal and abnormal segments, SPECT has greater ability to detect diseased arteries. The inherent three-dimensional nature of the data presentation suggests the feasibility of quantifying the extent of myocardium at risk. Pharmacologic stressors such as adenosine and dipyridamole allow imaging with thallium (and probably other perfusion agents) even in patients who are not candidates for exercise testing or who cannot achieve adequate levels of exercise. Studies suggest that adenosine has unique advantages for use with SPECT perfusion imaging with a high degree of accuracy. In our experience the sensitivity of detecting one-vessel disease is higher with adenosine-thallium imaging than in exercise SPECT thallium imaging. The degree of coronary hyperemia is greater and the duration of action is shorter with adenosine than with dipyridamole. 
Benign vascular sexual headache and exertional headache: interrelationships and long term prognosis. There is a definite relationship between the vascular type of benign sexual headache and benign exertional headache. Forty five patients with benign vascular sexual headache were reviewed. Twenty seven (60%) experienced benign vascular sexual headache alone and eighteen (40%) had experienced both benign vascular sexual headache and benign exertional headache on at least one occasion. The mean age was 34.3 years with a male:female ratio of 5.4:1. Thirty patients with a history of benign vascular sexual headache were followed for an average of 74 months. A personal history of migraine was found in 47% of cases and a family history of migraine in 30%. Forty one per cent of patients with benign vascular sexual headache alone had recurrences after diagnosis, and stress and fatigue were considered major contributing factors to the initial and recurrent headache. Nine patients had experienced benign vascular sexual headache and benign exertional headache within 72 hours of each other on at least one occasion, often with a residual headache between the two. Four patients experienced their benign vascular sexual headache and benign exertional headache separated by months to years. The prognosis of benign vascular sexual headache and the clinical and possible pathophysiological relationships between benign vascular sexual headache and benign exertional headache are discussed. Knowledge of the interrelationships of these varieties of headache is valuable in the counselling of patients. 
Effect of antihypertensive drugs on insulin, glucose, and lipid metabolism. The close relationship between diabetes and hypertension has been recognized for decades. New information indicates that resistance to insulin action on glucose uptake in peripheral tissues is a common underlying mechanism in hypertension and diabetes. In prospective trials, the effects of antihypertensive agents on insulin sensitivity and lipoprotein metabolism have been evaluated. Both beta-blockers and thiazide diuretics worsen insulin resistance and deteriorate lipoprotein metabolism. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, Ca2(+)-channel blockers, and alpha-blockers are neutral or improve these factors. These data may explain the unexpectedly high incidence of the development of diabetes among treated hypertensives and the poor effect on risk for coronary heart disease in intervention trials. 
Diagnostic imaging of osteosarcoma. The diagnosis, treatment planning, and follow-up evaluation of osteosarcoma rely heavily on a variety of imaging techniques. Plain roentgenography, radionuclide bone scanning, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging play important roles in defining local tumor extent, detecting metastatic disease, and monitoring for recurrent tumor. Invasive studies such as angiography are now rarely necessary. In the future, newer imaging modalities, including positron emission tomography, can be expected to become important tools for evaluation of these tumors. 
Stroke prevention in women: role of aspirin versus ticlopidine. Stroke is the third leading cause of death in North America. Most studies indicate that women are just as likely as men to have an initial stroke but less likely to have a recurrent stroke. Aspirin and ticlopidine are two antiplatelet drugs that reduce the risk of recurrent stroke by 25% to 30%. In some stroke prevention trials, aspirin has been shown to be more effective for men than for women. In contrast, major stroke prevention trials using ticlopidine have demonstrated equal benefit in women and in men. The overall incidence of adverse effects seen with ticlopidine is not significantly different from that observed with aspirin. There are now two effective agents useful in stroke prevention in both men and women. 
Analysis of adhesion molecules in the immunopathogenesis of giant cell arteritis. To explore the role of adhesion molecules in mediating mononuclear cell localisation, development of the granulomatous reaction, and cell mediated damage to the arterial wall in giant cell arteritis, 17 temporal artery biopsy specimens were examined. Eleven showed the histological features of giant cell arteritis and six showed no evidence of arteritis. All were examined for the expression of LFA-3, ICAM-1 and its receptor LFA-1, and HLA-DR. Temporal arteries with early features of arteritis, as well as histologically unaffected skip areas, showed a regional induction of ICAM-1 expression, but not HLA-DR, on smooth muscle cells of the media. ICAM-1 expression was detected in areas where a clinically important mononuclear cell infiltrate had not yet developed. In more florid cases of giant cell arteritis there was an additional widespread induction of ICAM-1 expression on intimal myofibroblasts. Strong expression of ICAM-1, HLA-DR, and LFA-3 was found on macrophages, epithelioid cells, and giant cells comprising the granulomatous lesion. The pattern of expression of these adhesion molecules suggests that they have a role in leucocyte traffic into the vascular lesion as well as in mediating the intercellular interactions which constitute the granulomatous response. 
Pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid treated by the Matti-Russe operation. A long-term review of 77 cases. We report the long-term results of the Matti-Russe operation for pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid in 100 cases, reported previously by Mulder in 1968. Clinical results for 77 patients and radiographic data for 74 were reviewed at 22 to 34.8 years after surgery. In general, there was satisfactory relief of pain and stiffness but some patients had limitation of motion and reduced grip-strength, with usually slight osteoarthritic changes. There was poor correlation between subjective, objective, and radiographic results but 88% of the patients were satisfied with their results. 
Axonal neuropathy with monoclonal IgG kappa that binds to a neurofilament protein. We report a 74-year-old woman with a slowly progressive sensory motor axonal neuropathy and a monoclonal IgG-kappa that bound to a 68-kd axonal protein identified as the low molecular weight neurofilament protein. The sera of control subjects and disease controls did not bind to neurofilament protein. 
Polycystic ovary syndrome and the androgen-insulin connection. The association of hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, and polycystic ovarian disease is well established. The accompanying hyperinsulinemia results in acanthosis nigricans, an epiphenomenon of this syndrome. The knowledge that states of insulin resistance of diverse causes are associated with ovarian hyperandrogenism makes the argument for insulin-driven ovarian androgen secretion compelling. However, equally compelling evidence suggests that hyperandrogenism may contribute to insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. The irreconcilable differences between these two hypotheses have resulted in an array of contradictory studies. In this article a unified concept of polycystic ovary syndrome and its androgen-insulin connection is proposed. The hypothesis incorporates the role of hyperinsulinemia in the androgen excess observed (and vice versa); the key to this connection is the androgen-dependent change in regional body fat distribution and its metabolic consequence. The pathophysiologic features of polycystic ovary syndrome, which has important clinical sequelae, deserve further consideration. 
Diastolic mechanical properties of the left ventricle after global ischemia. The purpose of this study was to evaluate left ventricular (LV) diastolic mechanical properties after induced global ischemia using reliable new methods. The diastolic function of nonoxygenated crystalloid solution (CC sO2) was compared with those of oxygenated crystalloid (CC cO2) and oxygenated fluorocarbon cardioplegic (FC cO2) solutions. Postischemic ventricular performance was studied in 3 equal (no. 7) groups of dogs subjected to 120 minutes of global ischemia induced at an average myocardial temperature of 18.5 +/- 1.4 degrees C. LV diastolic function (chamber and myocardial stiffness) and relaxation (the exponential fall in LV pressure) were evaluated by sonomicrometry and Millar micrometers before ischemia and at 45 and 60 minutes after ischemia. LV chamber and myocardial stiffness in the CC sO2 group was significantly (p less than 0.05) elevated after ischemia, while the CC cO2 and FC cO2 groups did not show increases in LV chamber and myocardial stiffness after ischemia. LV relaxation before and after ischemia was not changed in any group. The myocardial water content of the CC sO2 group was significantly higher than that of the CC cO2 and FC cO2 groups (p less than 0.05). We conclude that (1) the postischemic increase in LV chamber stiffness in the CC sO2 group was dependent not only on the increase in intrinsic myocardial stiffness but also due to an increase in myocardial edema, and (2) there was no correlation between the LV relaxation rate and the leftward shift of diastolic compliance curves in the CC sO2 group. 
Measurement of sound. The measurement of sound involves the analysis of frequency, intensity, and temporal dimensions of acoustic signals. Each dimension of sound can be related directly to clinically observed phenomena. Frequency information, measured in Hz, can be extracted from pure-tone and complex stimuli. Intensity represents the physical energy of a signal and is described by using the decibel scale--a logarithmic scale of ratios. Temporal characteristics of sound include duration, phase, and repetition rate. In the analysis of human hearing sensitivity, the middle ear system and its impedance characteristics also must be considered. In this article, we have reviewed some major principles of sound and have presented a series of practical clinical applications. Such principles as these help to predict and explain frequency of laryngeal tones, middle ear mechanics, ear canal resonance, real-ear measurements of hearing aids, the Articulation Index, hearing loss, understanding of speech in quiet and in noise, and the relation between hearing and speech. 
Local cerebral glucose utilization in rats with petit mal-like seizures. The quantitative 2-[14C]deoxyglucose autoradiographic method was applied to the measurement of local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in a model of genetic petit mal-like seizures in a strain of Wistar rats. During the experimental period, epileptic rats exhibited synchronous spike-and-wave discharges recorded from the cerebral cortex, whereas the electroencephalographic pattern of control animals was normal. An overall consistent increase in local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose was observed in epileptic rats as compared to nonepileptic control rats. This increase was statistically significant in 52 of the 59 cerebral structures studied and concerned all cerebral functional systems. These results are in accordance with positron emission tomography measurements in humans with typical childhood absence epilepsy. There is a lack of anatomical correlation between areas demonstrating hypermetabolism and areas where spike-and-wave discharges are recorded. Thus, the diffuse increase in cerebral energy metabolism in epileptic rats as compared to controls is not directly related to the occurrence of spike and wave discharges. 
Clinical predictors for buserelin acetate treatment of uterine fibroids: a prospective study of 40 women. Buserelin acetate, a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist, is known to be effective in the shrinkage of uterine fibroids. A prospective trial was undertaken (1) to compare the efficacy of intranasal (IN) and subcutaneous (SC) administration of buserelin acetate and (2) to assess if tumor regression correlated with fibroid size and/or patient age. Forty patients were randomly allocated to receive 6 months of either IN buserelin acetate (n = 21) or SC buserelin acetate (n = 19). Four patients did not complete the study and were excluded from statistical analysis. Fibroid regression occurred in all 36 patients. Overall regression to 66% or less of the initial fibroid volume occurred in 70% of subjects. There was no significant difference in fibroid shrinkage between the two administration routes. A significant positive correlation was found between initial fibroid size and subsequent fibroid regression, with larger tumors being more likely to shrink than smaller fibroids. No correlation was found between the patient's age and the extent of fibroid regression. 
Body image dissatisfaction in homosexual and heterosexual males. A nonclinical sample of 43 homosexual and 32 heterosexual men completed two self-report inventories regarding weight, body satisfaction, eating attitudes, and behaviors. Subjects were also asked to select their current and ideal figures, the weight they felt would be most attractive to a potential partner, and the weight to which they would be most attracted in a potential partner from figures representing very thin to very heavy physiques. Heterosexual men were significantly heavier than homosexual men and desired a significantly heavier ideal weight. Although the current and ideal physiques selected by the homosexual and heterosexual men were almost identical, homosexual men were more likely to desire an underweight ideal. A heightened pursuit of thinness may place homosexual men at an increased risk for developing eating disorders. 
Acute illness in maple syrup urine disease: dynamics of protein metabolism and implications for management. Acute metabolic decompensation in maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) during otherwise minor illnesses has generally been presumed to result from massive release of leucine from protein catabolism. A stable isotope method based on the continuous infusion of (2H5)phenylalanine was used to measure protein metabolism in vivo in two children with MSUD during acute illness and when well. Net protein catabolism was greater in the unwell state (0.51 and 0.40 gm/kg per 24 hours in each child, respectively) than in the basal state (0.34 and 0.32). This rate of release of leucine from protein is compatible only with a slow (several days) rather than a dramatic rise in plasma leucine levels during acute illness in MSUD. Poor oral intake leading to a relative increase in time spent in the fasting state appears to be a more important determinant of increasing leucine levels than the catabolic effect of infection in itself. These factors suggested that branched-chain amino acid restriction should be commenced at the start of minor illness in children with MSUD, and that intake of other nutrients should be maintained or increased throughout the illness. A regimen based on these concepts was used during nine episodes of minor illness in two children with MSUD. Plasma branched-chain amino acid levels remained acceptable (less than 700 mumol/L) throughout each of these episodes. Dietary supplementation of this type may reduce the risk of metabolic decompensation during acute illnesses in children with MSUD. 
Blood transfusion and recurrent Crohn's disease. The effect of blood transfusion on the postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease has been investigated. Clinical and pathological data from 197 patients treated by right hemicolectomy between 1947 and 1988 have been analysed. Symptomatic recurrences confirmed radiologically or histologically have been recorded and cumulative recurrence rates calculated for transfused and non-transfused patients. Perioperative blood transfusion does not influence the development of recurrent disease (log rank test, chi 2 = 0.112). 
Acute promyelocytic leukemia in Crohn's disease. Case report and review of the literature. A 19-year-old man with a documented 2-year history of Crohn's disease abruptly developed leukopenia and thrombocytopenia. A diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia was established by bone marrow cytology. Chromosomal analysis of bone marrow aspirate revealed aberrations of no. 8 trisomy and translocation between no. 15 and no. 17 [46,XY,t(15q+,17q-)/47,XY,+8,t(15q+,17q-)]. Nine cases of Crohn's disease complicated by leukemia have been reported, including the present one; once again, a relationship between Crohn's disease and leukemia is suggested. 
Radial artery hypoplasia: a further association with the VATER syndrome? A case of radial artery hypoplasia in a girl with the VATER syndrome is reported. This finding should alert surgeons dealing with vascular access for dialysis and suggests the possibility of intrauterine ischemia in the etiology of upper limb anomalies in these patients. 
A histopathological study of 643 cutaneous horns. A retrospective study of 643 cutaneous horns examined in our department between 1970 and 1989 revealed that 38.9% were derived from malignant or premalignant epidermal lesions, and 61.1% from benign lesions. Four main features were associated with premalignant or malignant histopathological change at the base of a cutaneous horn (base pathology). These were: (i) age--the mean age of the patients whose cutaneous horns showed premalignant or malignant base pathology was 8.9 years greater than the mean age of the patients where base pathology was benign (P less than 0.0005); (ii) sex--males were more likely to develop a cutaneous horn with (pre)malignant base pathology (P less than 0.001); (iii) site--over 70% of all (pre)malignant lesions were found on the nose, pinnae, backs of hands, scalp, forearms and the face; a cutaneous horn found at these sites was 2.1 times more likely to have derived from a (pre)malignant base than from any other part of the body (P less than 0.0001); (iv) geometry of the lesion--lesions with a wide base or a low height-to-base ratio were significantly more likely to show (pre)malignant base pathology. Of those solar keratoses giving rise to cutaneous horns, 8.9% also showed histological evidence of change to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC); this figure was not significantly different from the 6.2% of solar keratoses without horns that showed SCC change during the same period (1970-89). 
Outcome after emergency surgery for cancer of the large intestine. The data for 77 patients with colorectal cancer who underwent emergency surgery for acute intestinal obstruction (57 patients) or perforation (20 patients) within 24 h of admission were evaluated. The patients were older and had more advanced disease than patients undergoing elective surgery for colorectal cancer. Emergency surgery for carcinoma of the right colon consisted of primary resection in 95 per cent of cases and was followed by a 28 per cent mortality rate. Perforated tumours of the left colon and rectum were managed by primary resection in 82 per cent of cases with a 22 per cent mortality rate. In contrast, obstructing tumours of the left colon and rectum were treated by primary resection in 38 per cent of cases with a 6 per cent mortality rate, and by primary decompression in 62 per cent of cases with a 25 per cent mortality rate. The overall postoperative mortality rate was 23 per cent and increased with advanced tumour disease, perforation and peritonitis. Cardiac decompensation and intraabdominal sepsis were the major causes of death. Although the long-term survival rate following emergency surgery was worse than after elective surgery, improvements in outcome should be achieved by better management of the initial emergency situation. 
Flow cytometric studies of human osteosarcoma. A number of recent studies have emphasized the potential value of flow cytometry as a "marker" to assess the malignity and therefore to help predict the biologic behavior of neoplasms, including bone tumors. Using propidium iodide and a home-built flow cytometer, the authors have studied the DNA distribution in 95 patients with osteosarcoma and determined the percentage of cells in diploidy, S-phase, tetraploidy, and aneuploidy. Using these values and a derived one, mean DNA concentration, it was possible to demonstrate the extent of the abnormalities observed in this group of neoplasms and show their severity as compared with the normal pattern. When the data are compared against disease-free survival and total survival, correlations were noted that, although weak, suggested that some patterns were predictive of increased risk of metastasis and death. The effect of treatment could also be assessed by evaluating the pattern before and after chemotherapy and correlating these with survival. It seems likely that with some improvement in technology, flow cytometry will be of value in the future in assessing the prognosis for osteosarcoma and predicting whether treatment has been effective. 
Endoscopic findings in carcinoid tumor of the duodenum. The endoscopic findings in six patients with carcinoid tumor of the duodenum were analyzed. Radiographic and endoscopic examinations revealed a smooth and round elevation (measuring 5-20 mm in diameter) in the duodenal bulb. In three patients, the lesion was accompanied by an irregularly shaped erythematous depression, a characteristic endoscopic finding of this tumor. Because the endoscopic forceps biopsy technique led to an accurate diagnosis, we wish to stress the clinical value of the endoscopic modalities. 
Heterotopic ossification and peripheral nerve entrapment: early diagnosis and excision. Heterotopic ossification can occur in neurologic disorders, burns, musculoskeletal trauma, and metabolic disorders. In addition to producing the complications of contracture, skin breakdown, and pain, it can cause peripheral nerve entrapment. Nerve entrapment due to heterotopic ossification may be misdiagnosed, and it is difficult to evaluate and treat without recurrence. Computed tomography is especially useful in localization before surgical release of the entrapped nerve. Resection of heterotopic ossification can be successful using disodium etidronate to decrease the risk of recurrence, and resection can improve range of motion and nerve function. Two case studies of nerve entrapment due to heterotopic ossification are presented with the results of computed tomography localization, successful resection, and long-term follow-up. Clinicians should be aware of this complication and the potential for rapid nerve injury. If heterotopic ossification is causing clinically significant peripheral nerve entrapment, early surgical treatment may be indicated, and may be successful. 
The role of exercise in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary artery disease. Over the past 30 years, mortality rates from coronary artery disease (CAD) have decreased by more than 30% in the United States. However, CAD remains the major public health problem in this country. There is now substantial evidence linking exercise training to a reduced risk for CAD and for mortality after myocardial infarction. The actual mechanism by which physical activity aids in reducing the risk for developing or dying from CAD has still to be elucidated. Several highly plausible mechanisms have been postulated, including decreased myocardial oxygen demand, increased myocardial oxygen supply, reduced propensity toward ventricular arrhythmias, reduced platelet aggregation, increased plasma fibrinolytic activity, and modification of multiple CAD risk factors. Irrespective of the precise mechanism, it now appears that lower levels of physical activity are needed to reduce the risk for CAD than are needed to optimize cardiorespiratory fitness. In this regard, we recommend that the type, frequency, intensity, and duration of exercise training be modulated to achieve a weekly energy expenditure of between 14 and 20 kilocalories per kilogram of body weight. Although aerobic activities should be emphasized, muscle strengthening and flexibility exercises should also be incorporated into the training program in order to promote musculoskeletal health. 
Impact of resident training on postoperative morbidity in patients undergoing single valve replacement. Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study on Valvular Heart Disease. As one of the requirements of the Department of Veterans Affairs cooperative study on valvular heart disease, operative and postoperative data were prospectively collected in 964 patients undergoing single valve replacement. The procedure was performed either by a resident under the direct supervision of an attending surgeon (49.5%) or by an attending surgeon (50.5%). There was no difference in operative mortality between the two groups of surgeons when adjusted for patient-related and disease-related risk factors. The proportion of patients who had at least one postoperative complication was slightly but not significantly higher in the attending group (35.8% versus 30.4% for aortic valve replacement, 38% versus 28% for mitral valve replacement, and 36% versus 30% for all single valve replacement procedures). As the significance of each complication varies, we weighted each complication to the associated operative mortality to formulate the morbidity score. An expected complication rate for each group was derived from a multivariate logistic model, and the ratio of observed to expected morbidity was calculated to adjust observed morbidity according to the risk of patients. There was no difference in the observed/expected morbidity ratio between the two groups of surgeons. We conclude that currently used teaching techniques and philosophy to educate cardiac surgical residents, which allow them to take progressive responsibility for cardiac surgical procedures, are well justified, and patient care does not suffer when resident training is enhanced. 
Nosocomial pneumonia and the role of gastric pH. A meta-analysis. PURPOSE: To examine the differential effect of drugs used for stress ulcer prophylaxis on nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients. DATA IDENTIFICATION: Computerized bibliographic search of published and unpublished research. STUDY SELECTION: Independent review of 48 randomized controlled trials of prophylaxis identified eight relevant studies. DATA ABSTRACTION: The population, intervention, and outcomes were evaluated by duplicate independent review. RESULTS: The incidence of pneumonia was lower in critically ill patients receiving antacids and/or histamine-2-receptor antagonists as compared with patients receiving no stress ulcer prophylaxis (common odds ratio 0.42, 95 percent CI 0.17 to 1.11). When stress ulcer prophylactic therapy was titrated to achieve a gastric pH of 3.5 or greater, there was a trend favoring a decreased incidence of pneumonia (0.66, 95 percent CI 0.24 to 1.78). In trials comparing sucralfate with pH-altering drugs, the common odds ratio of 0.55 (0.28 to 1.06) suggests a 45 percent risk reduction with the use of sucralfate. CONCLUSION: Stress ulcer prophylaxis with drugs which raise gastric pH does not increase the incidence of pneumonia in comparison to placebo or control therapy. The use of sucralfate is associated with a lower incidence of nosocomial pneumonia in comparison to agents which raise gastric pH. However, methodologic deficiencies, small sample sizes, and the failure to examine the effects of antacids and histamine-2-receptor antagonists separately make a large prospective randomized trial necessary to confirm or refute these findings. 
Bilateral renal hemangiopericytoma. The first reported case of bilateral renal hemangiopericytoma is presented. The 19 previous renal hemangiopericytomas that have been reported in the world literature are reviewed. This lesion has afflicted patients ranging in age from sixteen to sixty-eight years (mean 41 years) with an equal sex distribution. Mortality from hemangiopericytoma of the kidney has been 50 percent, and the primary mode of therapy remains surgical. 
Excess mortality in giant cell arteritis. A 13-year departmental sample of 34 patients with definite (biopsy-verified) giant cell arteritis (GCA) was reviewed. The mortality of this material was compared to sex-, age- and time-specific death rates in the Danish population. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was 1.8 (95% confidence limits, 1.1-2.8). During the same period 146 patients with probable (not biopsied, but clinically diagnosed in the department) GCA and 85 cases of possible (diagnosed and treated before admission) GCA had been admitted to the department. Those two groups did not differ from the biopsy-verified group with respect to SMR, sex distribution or age. In the group of patients with department-diagnosed GCA (definite + probable = 180 patients), the 95% confidence interval for the SMR of the women included 1.0. In all other subgroups there was a significant excess mortality. Excess mortality has been found in two of seven previous studies on survival in GCA. The prevailing opinion that steroid-treated GCA does not affect the life expectancy of patients is probably not correct. 
Misdiagnosed papillary renal adenocarcinoma. We present 3 patients with papillary renal adenocarcinoma who were initially misdiagnosed owing to unusual clinical presentation. We suggest that if these presentations are borne in mind, pre-operative detection of this uncommon condition should be possible more often than is now the case. 
Dietary Ca2+ prevents NaCl-sensitive hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats via sympatholytic and renal effects. NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-S) were used to test the hypotheses that dietary Ca2+ supplementation 1) prevents NaCl-sensitive hypertension via a sympatholytic mechanism, and 2) increases diuretic and natriuretic responses to acute volume loading. SHR-S and control WKY rats were begun on one of four diets at age 8 wk: control, high NaCl, high Ca2+, or high NaCl and high Ca2+. In SHR-S, dietary Ca2+ supplementation prevented the NaCl-induced increases in blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine concentrations, the reductions in anterior hypothalamic norepinephrine stores and turnover, and the secondary increases in alpha 2 adrenoceptor number. Thus, Ca2+ prevented NaCl-sensitive hypertension in SHR-S by increasing noradrenergic input to the anterior hypothalamus. High-NaCl-fed SHR-S had impaired diuretic and natriuretic responses to an isotonic volume load; Ca2+ enhanced the ability of these animals to adjust fluid volume rapidly via diuresis and natriuresis. This alteration in renal function may contribute to the hypotensive effect of a high Ca2+ diet in NaCl-sensitive hypertension. 
Quinapril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, prevents cardiac hypertrophy during episodic hypertension. Six control dogs, six dogs treated with 1.5 mg/kg b.i.d. quinapril, and six dogs treated with 8 mg/kg q.d. minoxidil underwent 6 hours daily of hindquarter compression for 9 weeks. Minoxidil significantly decreased baseline blood pressure (-17 mm Hg; p less than or equal to 0.01), whereas quinapril decreased baseline blood pressure 11 mm Hg but not significantly (p = 0.15). Hindquarter compression elicited blood pressure increases in all three groups (control +18, quinapril +13, minoxidil +19 mm Hg). After 9 weeks, left ventricular mass in control dogs increased 22% (p less than 0.004); a similar increase was seen in minoxidil-treated dogs (+22%, p less than 0.0001) but not in the quinapril-treated group (+4%, p less than 0.15). The increase in left ventricular mass in control dogs was concentric (increased epicardial volume only), whereas in the minoxidil group, the hypertrophy was eccentric (both epicardial and endocardial volumes increased). The minimal hypertrophy in the quinapril group was concentric (no change in epicardial, but a decrease in endocardial volume). Quinapril had little hypotensive effect, but prevented the development of left ventricular hypertrophy, whereas minoxidil did not prevent hypertrophy in spite of its hypotensive effect. The mechanism of this differential effect of direct vasodilation versus converting enzyme inhibition on left ventricular hypertrophy is not fully elucidated. The results with quinapril suggest that some antihypertensive agents may positively affect left ventricular hypertrophy in spite of the absence of a large effect on baseline blood pressure or on blood pressure reactivity. 
Relationship of HBsAg subtypes with HBeAg/anti-HBe status and chronic liver disease. Part I: Analysis of 1744 HBsAg carriers. A total of 1744 HBsAg carriers were investigated to determine whether there are clinical differences among HBsAg subtypes or not. Although adr was more predominant than adw in 1078 asymptomatic carriers as well as in 666 carriers with liver dysfunction, the adr carriers had liver dysfunction more frequently than the adw carriers (p = 0.005). In addition, the adr carriers were more often positive for HBeAg and less often positive for anti-HBe than the adw carriers (p less than 0.001). Multivariate analyses indicated that the HBsAg subtypes were associated with liver dysfunction not directly but through the relationship between the HBsAg subtypes and HBeAg/anti-HBe status. HBeAg/anti-HBe status of each age bracket in the adr carriers and in the adw carriers suggested that adr carriers are seroconverted later than adw carriers. In conclusion, HBsAg subtypes may affect the development of chronic liver disease, through their association with HBeAg/anti-HBe status. 
Vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) produced by A-431 human epidermoid carcinoma cells and identification of VEGF membrane binding sites. A distinct family of endothelial cell mitogens that are homologous to platelet-derived growth factor has recently been identified. Unlike other known endothelial cell mitogens, these vascular endothelial cell growth factors (VEGFs) are secreted and appear to act specifically on endothelial cells. We have purified VEGF 2083-fold to apparent homogeneity from protein-free culture medium conditioned by A-431 human epidermoid carcinoma cells. This A-431-derived VEGF was characterized as a homodimer composed of 22-kDa subunits with an N-terminal sequence that was similar to VEGFs produced by human HL-60 leukemic and U-937 histiocytic lymphoma cells. A-431 VEGF was used to identify specific and saturable binding sites for VEGF on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). By affinity cross-linking, VEGF-binding site complexes of 230, 170, and 125 kDa were detected on HUVEC. VEGF specifically induced the tyrosine phosphorylation of a 190-kDa polypeptide, which was similar in mass to the largest binding site detected by affinity cross-linking. 
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in the treatment of neonatal respiratory failure. We report 18 consecutive neonates with severe respiratory failure due to pulmonary hypertension treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was begun at 52 +/- 36 hours of age with an arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) of 36 +/- 14 mm Hg despite maximal pharmacologic and ventilator support (inspired fraction of oxygen [FiO2], 0.99 +/- 0.03; respiratory rate, 98 +/- 31/min; and positive inspiratory pressure, 54 +/- 11 cm of water). With initial flows of 130 +/- 17 mL/kg per minute, ventilator settings were reduced to the following: FiO2, 0.30; respiratory rates, 15/min; and positive inspiratory pressure, 24 cm of water. Support using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was gradually reduced to 22% of initial flows and arterial blood samples showed pH 7.48 +/- .05, PO2 of 106 +/- 27 mm Hg, and PCO2 of 36 +/- 5 mm Hg just prior to decannulation. After 107 +/- 45 hours, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was stopped and infants were extubated 61 +/- 53 hours (median, 46 hours) afterward. There was one death (94.4% survival rate); all survivors were discharged and underwent a follow-up examination at 1 to 27 months of age. Complications included two intracranial hemorrhages (one death and one asymptomatic), one patent ductus arteriosus requiring ligation on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, and chronic lung disease in one patient. In selected neonates, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation allows for resolution of pulmonary hypertension, results in improved survival, and is associated with a low incidence of chronic lung disease. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation should be considered in the treatment of severe respiratory failure. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in renal cell carcinoma: an accurate diagnostic technique for intracaval neoplastic extension. Between 4 and 10% of patients with renal cell carcinoma have tumor involving the inferior vena cava and many of these patients have suprahepatic extension. In patients with intracaval neoplastic extension precise definition of the superior aspect of the tumor thrombus is critical. Transabdominal ultrasonography, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and inferior venacavography are all currently used to evaluate the inferior vena cava in these patients. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography was used to image the inferior vena cava in 5 patients with renal cell carcinoma and intracaval neoplastic extension. In each patient transesophageal echocardiography correctly revealed the superior extent of tumor thrombus. In 3 patients tumor thrombus was found at a higher level by transesophageal echocardiography than by CT, MRI and inferior venacavography. In all patients tumor imaging by transesophageal echocardiography correlated well with the gross appearance and extent of tumor found at operation. Echocardiography also documented the absence of residual gross tumor after resection. Transesophageal echocardiography was also useful to assess left ventricular function. Although each of these patients had a pulmonary artery catheter as well transesophageal echocardiography can be useful in situations when right atrial tumor thrombus prevents right heart catheterization. This small series demonstrates that intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography can accurately evaluate the extent of tumor thrombus and provides a means to assess myocardial function complementary to the pulmonary artery catheter. 
Curative treatment of scalp arteriovenous fistulas by direct puncture and embolization with absolute alcohol. Report of three cases. Three cases of direct arteriovenous fistulas of the scalp (two involving cirsoid aneurysms) are presented. All three patients were treated with direct puncture of the venous pouch and injection of absolute ethyl alcohol during compression of the venous outflow of the fistula. Two of the three patients were cured with this treatment alone. The third patient, with a very high-flow giant fistula, required injection of glue to close the fistula and subsequent surgical extirpation of the resulting hard mass lesion. 
Parotid enlargement in children seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus: imaging findings. We investigated the clinical, immunologic, and imaging features of parotid enlargement in 10 children seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who were infected prenatally. In seven patients, sonography revealed many small hypoechoic areas suggestive of lymphoid infiltration. In three older children, large anechoic areas suggesting lymphoepithelial cysts were present. The lesions probably represent generalized lymphoid infiltration akin to pulmonary lymphoid hyperplasia, although only two of our patients had radiologic evidence of pulmonary lymphoid hyperplasia. Four of five of the children with parotid enlargement who had immunologic studies were phenotypically HLA-DR5, an immunophenotype associated with improved immune response, occurring in less than one in four in the normal population. This suggests that painless parotid enlargement may be a good prognostic sign in HIV-seropositive children. Parotid enlargement was found in 10 HIV-positive children from 6 months to 11 years old. All except one were infected prenatally. 
Kock pouch procedures: continuing experience and evolution in 135 cases. Between April 1985 and January 1989, 135 consecutive patients underwent construction of a Kock pouch (to the skin in 72 patients, a urethral pouch in 45, an ileorectal pouch in 10 and a hemi-Kock pouch augmentation cystoplasty in 8). The operative mortality (30 days) rate was 4.4%. There were 16 early complications (12.4%) leading to 14 reoperations (11%), with a followup of 6 to 60 months. After Kock pouch to the skin, the late complication rate was 26.1% in the Kock-Skinner technique group and 7.4% in the simplified technique group, and 94.2% of the patients were continent. After a urethral Kock pouch daytime continence was achieved in 93% of the patients within 2 months and nighttime dryness was noted in 65% within 3 months. After an ileorectal Kock pouch all patients were continent day and night, as were those after hemi-Kock pouch augmentation, although 5 of the latter patients required intermittent catheterization. 
Infection of human neural cell aggregate cultures with a clinical isolate of cytomegalovirus. Human neural cell aggregate cultures were prepared from dissociated fetal brain tissue and maintained in rotation culture. After 35 days in culture, aggregates had the histologic appearance of dense, immature, neural cells in a tightly packed neuropil. Electron microscopy revealed ultrastructural features suggestive of immature neurons and neuroglia. In addition, neuron-specific enolase and glial fibrillary acidic protein associated with radial glial cells were detected within the aggregates by immunoperoxidase staining. When infected with a laboratory-adapted strain of cytomegalovirus (CMV), [AD169], cells containing large, bizarre, nuclei and CMV-induced intranuclear inclusion bodies were dispersed throughout the aggregates at 16 days postinfection. In situ hybridization using a CMV-specific DNA probe and electron microscopy confirmed the presence of virus sequences as well as virus particles at histologic sites of cytopathology. In sharp contrast, aggregate cultures infected with a CMV strain recovered from the retina of an acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) patient with CMV retinitis and encephalitis displayed distinct foci of cytopathology at 23 days postinfection, a pattern not observed in CMV [AD169]-infected aggregates. Our findings suggest that human neural cell aggregates represent a a promising multicellular non-neoplastic culture system in which to study the replication of human neurotropic viruses within neural tissue. 
Effects of variable dose milrinone in patients with low cardiac output after cardiac surgery. European Multicenter Trial Group. We studied 99 adult patients after elective cardiac surgery who had low cardiac output (cardiac index less than 2.5 L/min/m2) in spite of adequate cardiac filling pressure (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure less than 8 mm Hg). Patients received milrinone by loading dose (50 micrograms/kg over a 10-minute period), followed by a continuous infusion of either 0.375, 0.5, or 0.75 micrograms/kg/min (low-, middle-, and high-dose groups, respectively) given for a minimum of 12 hours. Patients were allocated to each dosage group sequentially, not randomly. Hemodynamic measurements were made before the loading dose and at 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes, 3, 6, and 12 hours after the start of milrinone therapy. Further measurements were made at 2 and 4 hours after treatment was stopped. Milrinone therapy was associated with a rapid, well-sustained, and highly significant increase in cardiac index in all three dose groups (p less than 0.001), and a similar fall occurred in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in all groups (p less than 0.001). Significant increases occurred in heart rate in all three groups (p less than 0.001). Systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance also fell significantly, although changes in this latter parameter were less predictable and more dose dependent. Few serious treatment-related adverse effects were seen. We conclude that intravenous milrinone is an effective and safe therapy for the treatment of low output states after cardiac surgery. 
Efficacy of fixed minidose warfarin prophylaxis in total hip replacement. OBJECTIVE--To determine whether a small fixed perioperative dose of warfarin would prevent deep vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. DESIGN--Prospective, randomised, double blind placebo controlled trial. SETTING--Winford Orthopaedic Hospital, Bristol. SUBJECTS--148 patients having primary total hip replacement. INTERVENTION--Warfarin 1 mg given daily for one week before and three weeks after surgery. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Deep vein thrombosis diagnosed by the iodine-125 labelled fibrinogen uptake method. RESULTS--Deep vein thrombosis occurred in 25 (34%) of the patients given warfarin and 19 (26%) of the controls (difference 8%; 95% confidence interval -6.8% to 22.8%). CONCLUSION--Fixed minidose warfarin does not prevent deep vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. 
Surgical versus medical treatment for epilepsy. I. Outcome related to survival, seizures, and neurologic deficit. We conducted a retrospective parallel longitudinal cohort study comparing surgical and medical treatment for epilepsy. The surgical group contained 201 patients treated with resective surgery for epilepsy in Norway since the first operation in 1949 until January 1988. The 185 control group patients treated medically only were closely matched for year of treatment, age at treatment, sex, seizure type, and neurologic deficit before treatment. There was no significant difference in survival between the two groups. The total monthly seizure frequency in the first and second year after operation and last year of registration (median 9 years) was significantly lower in the surgical group than in the control group (Mann-Whitney U test, two-tailed p less than 0.0001). The patterns were similar, with significant differences for subgroups with similar pretreatment status, such as seizure frequency, age, etiology and EEG-focality. Twenty-three and four-tenths percent (n = 40) of the surgically treated, and 2.9% of the controls had contracted neurologic deficits within 2 years after treatment. The difference was significant (chi square = 32.89, p less than 0.0001). Psychosis or permanent psychotic symptoms were reported in 6.7% (n = 11) of the surgically treated patients, and we suspect a higher proportion of psychotic development in the surgical group than in the control group. We conclude that surgical treatment for partial epilepsy is more successful than medical treatment in producing seizure reduction, provided the indications for operation exist. Surgical treatment produces more neurologic deficits than medical treatment (and possibly more psychiatric morbidity), and this factor must be weighed against the reduction in seizure frequency. The two treatments are equal for longterm survival. 
p53 mutations in human cancers. Mutations in the evolutionarily conserved codons of the p53 tumor suppressor gene are common in diverse types of human cancer. The p53 mutational spectrum differs among cancers of the colon, lung, esophagus, breast, liver, brain, reticuloendothelial tissues, and hemopoietic tissues. Analysis of these mutations can provide clues to the etiology of these diverse tumors and to the function of specific regions of p53. Transitions predominate in colon, brain, and lymphoid malignancies, whereas G:C to T:A transversions are the most frequent substitutions observed in cancers of the lung and liver. Mutations at A:T base pairs are seen more frequently in esophageal carcinomas than in other solid tumors. Most transitions in colorectal carcinomas, brain tumors, leukemias, and lymphomas are at CpG dinucleotide mutational hot spots. G to T transversions in lung, breast, and esophageal carcinomas are dispersed among numerous codons. In liver tumors in persons from geographic areas in which both aflatoxin B1 and hepatitis B virus are cancer risk factors, most mutations are at one nucleotide pair of codon 249. These differences may reflect the etiological contributions of both exogenous and endogenous factors to human carcinogenesis. 
In vitro cholesterol gallstone dissolution: comparison of methyl tert-butyl ether with three new ester solvents. The in vitro effectiveness of three new cholesterol gallstone solvents that have a potential for clinical use--ethyl propionate, isopropyl acetate, and n-propyl acetate--was compared with that of the well-known cholesterol solvent methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE). Ten sets of matched gallstones were initially weighed, imaged with radiography and computed tomography (CT), and analyzed for content. One stone from each set was incubated in one of the four solvents at 37 degrees C. Solvents were changed at 30-minute intervals. The study was stopped either when the stones were completely dissolved or at the end of 7 hours. Any residual fragments were weighed, reimaged, and reanalyzed for content. There were no statistical differences between dissolution times of the stones in MTBE compared with those in the three new solvents. Ethyl propionate and n-propyl acetate appear to be as efficacious as MTBE in dissolving cholesterol stones and could be attractive alternatives for gallstone chemolysis. 
The economic implications of high-risk abdominal aortic aneurysms. Financial data of 102 patients undergoing elective and emergent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair over a 3-year period were evaluated in terms of postoperative length of stay, net revenue, total standard cost, and net margin. Cost reimbursement was based on diagnosis related group payments. Aneurysm repairs were classified as emergent, high-risk elective, or low-risk elective. A net loss of $409,459 was noted for the entire series. Emergent repairs, although only 12% of the population, accounted for 73% of total losses, with a mean loss of $24,655/patient. The mean net loss in the high-risk elective group was $3590/patient, and a net gain of $1132/patient was noted in the low-risk elective group. Length of stay outliers, defined as length of stay greater than 28 days, contributed to the bulk of the losses in the elective series and were predominant in the high-risk group. No preoperative comorbidity, other than high-risk classification, predicted outlier status. Length of stay correlated with total standard costs in all categories of aneurysm repair. Third party payment for length of stay outliers was inadequate; the diagnosis related group system warrants revision so that outlier reimbursement will be based on a tiered system derived from length of stay. 
Hypertension profiling by total body water (TBW) determinations in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Hypertension is an important risk factor in hemodialysis patients. Fluid overload and increased peripheral resistance are considered the two main causes. We studied the relation between volume state and blood pressure in 18 hemodialysis patients. Actual total body water (aTBW) was measured as tritium space and "ideal" total body water (iTBW) by an anthropometric method. The difference between aTBW and iTBW was considered a measure of fluid excess or deficit. Twelve patients were overhydrated, 5%-23%. Their predialysis blood pressure was significantly correlated to their degree of fluid excess; systolic BP:r = 0.71, p = 0.03, diastolic BP:r = 0.73, p = 0.02, mean arterial BP:r = 0.76, p = 0.03. Five of these patients had multiple antihypertensive drugs instead of adequate ultrafiltration. Five patients had a fluid deficit of -3 to -13% and hypertension due to vasoconstriction. Four of these were adequately treated with antihypertensive drugs but had exaggerated ultrafiltration. TBW determination with tritium is simple to perform and gives information on the volume state and thereby on the cause of hypertension in hemodialysis patients. Based on this, appropriate treatment can be chosen. 
Coronary hemodynamics and myocardial metabolism in patients with syndrome X: response to pacing stress Coronary hemodynamics, myocardial metabolism and left ventricular function at rest and after incremental atrial pacing were evaluated in 12 patients with stress-induced angina and ST segment depression, angiographically normal coronary arteries and no evidence of spasm, generally labeled as syndrome X, and in 10 normal subjects. At baseline study, great cardiac vein flow was comparable in patients and control subjects. During pacing, an equivalent rate-pressure product was reached in the two groups, but the slope of the relation between rate-pressure product and great cardiac vein flow was significantly less steep in patients than in normal subjects (0.0027 vs. 0.0054 ml/mm Hg.beat, p less than 0.001). Nevertheless, the left ventricular ejection fraction was comparable in both groups at rest (66 +/- 6% vs. 71 +/- 7%, p = NS) and during pacing (71 +/- 7% vs. 66 +/- 5%, p = NS). At baseline study, myocardial glucose extraction was more efficient in patients with syndrome X (p less than 0.05), but net myocardial exchange of pyruvate and alanine was, respectively, smaller and greater than in control subjects. Lactate was extracted to a similar extent in the two groups and in no instance was net lactate release observed during pacing or recovery. During pacing and recovery, patients with syndrome X showed net pyruvate release, unlike the control subjects in whom net pyruvate exchange was positive. In addition, patients with syndrome X continued to show net myocardial extraction of alanine during spacing and recovery, whereas normal subjects produced alanine throughout the study. Myocardial carbohydrate oxidation increased significantly during maximal pacing in normal subjects but not in patients, in whom it always remained below (p less than 0.01) the concurrent rate of myocardial uptake of carbohydrate equivalents (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, alanine). Myocardial energy expenditure was significantly lower in patients than in control subjects at maximal rate-pressure product levels (p less than 0.01). The metabolic pattern in patients with syndrome X therefore is not consistent with classic ischemia, although differences in the net exchange of circulating substrates (glucose, pyruvate, alanine) can be demonstrated. Thus, in patients with syndrome X, the symptoms, electrocardiographic signs and impairment in the increase in great cardiac vein flow during pacing coexist with preserved global and regional left ventricular function and myocardial energy efficiency. 
Teicoplanin pharmacokinetics in intravenous drug abusers being treated for bacterial endocarditis. The pharmacokinetics of teicoplanin were determined after multiple 30-min intravenous infusions of 10 to 15 mg/kg every 12 to 24 h in 11 intravenous drug abuse (IVDA) patients being treated for bacterial endocarditis. Multiple serum samples were obtained over 7 to 14 days. Twenty-four-hour urine collections were obtained on days 1 and 5. Serum concentration-time data were analyzed by using multiple-dose pharmacokinetic analysis (NONLIN84). Results were compared with pharmacokinetic parameters derived from previous studies in normal healthy volunteers following multiple intravenous infusions of teicoplanin (3 to 6 mg/kg/day). Total and renal clearances of teicoplanin in IVDA patients were found to be significantly greater and more highly variable than those observed previously in normal healthy volunteers. As a result, predicted steady-state trough concentrations in serum may vary up to fivefold. The mechanism responsible for this variation appears to be related to the glomerular filtration rate. In IVDA patients, individualized teicoplanin dosage may be required in the treatment of bacterial endocarditis. 
Nutritional model of hepatocarcinogenesis. Rats fed choline-devoid diet. Rats fed a choline-devoid diet as the sole treatment develop hepatocellular carcinomas, the pathogenesis of which appears to reside exclusively in effects of the diet on the liver. Among the latter, most prominent is the induction of repeating cycles of liver cell injury, death, and regeneration. Two other models have been described recently in the literature, in which development of hepatic neoplastic lesions occurs after protracted periods of liver cell injury, death, and regeneration, without exposure of the animals to chemical carcinogens. The possibility is considered that an abnormal increase in cell turnover may result in all of the genomic alterations that are required for initiation, promotion, and neoplastic transformation of liver cells in these models of hepatocarcinogenesis. The possible involvement, in the same models, of endogenously initiated liver cells also is discussed briefly. 
Clinical, laboratory, roentgenographic, and electrocardiographic findings in patients with acute pulmonary embolism and no pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. The history, physical examination, chest radiograph, electrocardiogram and blood gases were evaluated in patients with suspected acute pulmonary embolism (PE) and no history or evidence of pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease. The investigation focused upon patients with no previous cardiac or pulmonary disease in order to evaluate the clinical characteristics that were due only to PE. Acute PE was present in 117 patients and PE was excluded in 248 patients. Among the patients with PE, dyspnea or tachypnea (greater than or equal to 20/min) was present in 105 of 117 (90 percent). Dyspnea, hemoptysis, or pleuritic pain was present in 107 of 117 (91 percent). The partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood on room air was less than 80 mm Hg in 65 of 88 (74 percent). The alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient was greater than 20 mm Hg in 76 of 88 (86 percent). The chest radiograph was abnormal in 98 of 117 (84 percent). Atelectasis and/or pulmonary parenchymal abnormalities were most common, 79 of 117 (68 percent). Nonspecific ST segment or T wave change was the most common electrocardiographic abnormality, in 44 of 89 (49 percent). Dyspnea, tachypnea, or signs of deep venous thrombosis was present in 107 of 117 (91 percent). Dyspnea or tachypnea or pleuritic pain was present in 113 of 117 (97 percent). Dyspnea or tachypnea or pleuritic pain was present in 113 of 117 (97 percent). Dyspnea or tachypnea or pleuritic pain or atelectasis or a parenchymal abnormality on the chest radiograph was present in 115 of 117 (98 percent). In conclusion, among the patients with pulmonary embolism that were identified, only a small percentage did not have these important manifestations or combinations of manifestations. Clinical evaluation, though nonspecific, is of considerable value in the selection of patients in whom there is a need for further diagnostic studies. 
The limited potential of special ambulance services in the management of cardiac arrest For six months a survey was made of all the patients in the Nottingham District Health Authority who died or who were brought to hospital after a cardiac arrest outside hospital. During this period just under half of the emergency ambulance shifts were covered by specially trained crews with defibrillators. During the study period the ICD coding of death certificates indicated that 894 (25%) of the 3575 deaths were due to ischaemic heart disease. During this period the ambulance service received 17,749 emergency calls, which included 445 patients who had cardiac arrests outside hospital. One hundred and forty seven of these patients were carried by ambulances equipped with defibrillators and resuscitation was attempted in 83. Seven patients survived to leave hospital. The special ambulance service was cost effective--a simple calculation suggests that the cost per life saved was approximately 2600 pounds, but it seems unlikely that special ambulance services will materially affect community fatality rates from ischaemic heart disease. 
The influence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection on the development of the hepatitis B virus carrier state. To assess the influence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection on the natural history of acute hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, a study was undertaken of the clinical records of all 77 homosexual men with documented seroconversion to anti-hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc) between visits to either of two Sydney clinics between 1985 and 1989. HIV-1-seropositive subjects developed chronic HBV infection (positive for hepatitis B surface antigen [HBsAg] greater than 6 months) more frequently (7/31, 23%) than HIV-1-seronegative ones (2/46, 4%; P = .026). HIV-positive subjects who cleared HBsAg had significantly more circulating CD4+ lymphocytes (mean, 547 x 10(6)/l) than those who did not (352 x 10(6)/l, P less than .005). A subset of subjects who acquired both viruses between visits had an even higher rate of chronic infection (4/10, 40%). Icteric illnesses were reported more frequently by HIV-1-seronegative (11/46, 24%) than -seropositive subjects (3/31, 10%; P = .20). These findings indicate a potential for an increased reservoir of HBV infection in the community as a consequence of the HIV-1 epidemic. 
Induction of speech arrest and counting errors with rapid-rate transcranial magnetic stimulation. Six adult epileptic patients underwent rapid-rate transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) at stimulation rates of up to 25 Hz with an 11-cm water-cooled round coil held flat on the scalp, centered over 15 different positions on each side of the scalp. The trains of stimuli were for 10 seconds while the patients counted aloud. rTMS centered over D5 or D7 induced reproducible speech arrest in all patients and counting errors in three when applied at lower intensities. There were no such speech disturbances by rTMS centered over the different positions on the right side. Intracarotid amobarbital test (IAT) demonstrated left hemispheric language dominance in all patients. Lateralization of speech arrest induced by rTMS correlated with the IAT results and may be helpful for noninvasive determination of hemispheric language dominance. 
Comparison of morbidity and function after colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis or restorative proctocolectomy for familial adenomatous polyposis. Restorative proctocolectomy with an ileal reservoir (RPC) should prevent colorectal cancer in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. Until this is confirmed its role compared with total colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis (IRA) will depend on the relative morbidity and postoperative bowel function after the two procedures. This was analysed in 99 patients (37 RPC, 62 IRA) operated on between 1977 and 1989. Morbidity was greater after RPC with subsequent ileostomy closure (median hospital stay, 24 versus 11 days; complications, 60 versus 21 per cent; reoperation, 29 versus 3 per cent; return to normal activity; 31 versus 14 weeks). There was little difference in bowel function; after IRA median frequency was 3/24 h and urgency (unable to wait 15 min) occurred in 50 per cent, compared with 4.5/24h and 17 per cent after RPC. Night evacuation occurred in 10 and 43 per cent respectively. IRA was performed in younger patients (median 19 versus 31 years) who had fewer bowel motions before operation (2 versus 5/24 h). The greater morbidity of RPC suggests that it should be restricted to patients at higher risk of developing later rectal cancer, including those unavailable for follow-up and those with large or confluent rectal polyps or with curable colon cancer at the initial colectomy. 
Evaluation of diagnostic methods for Helicobacter pylori gastritis. The authors evaluated the use of direct Gram-stained smears, 1- and 24-hour urease broth tests, histologic examination, and culture to detect Helicobacter pylori in 100 gastric biopsy specimens from 97 patients with epigastric symptoms. Twenty-six patients had positive cultures and 27 had H. pylori identifiable in hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections. The gastric biopsy specimens from the 29 patients with culture and/or histologic findings positive for H. pylori showed active gastritis in 27 cases (93%), compared with 26 cases (37%) without H. pylori (P less than 0.0001). Chronic gastritis was present in 25 cases (86%) with H. pylori and 40 cases (56%) without H. pylori (P less than 0.01). Twenty patients had positive Gram-stained smears. Fifteen patients had positive 1-hour urease tests, and 3 had delayed positive 24-hour urease tests. There were no false-positive Gram's stain results, three false-positive 24-hour urease tests, two false-negative histologic results, and three false-negative cultures (one inadvertently incubated anaerobically). The sensitivities of the methods were as follows: 62% for the 24-hour urease test, 69% for direct Gram's stain, 90% for culture, and 93% for histologic examination. The authors conclude that the urease test used in this study has low sensitivity and limited specificity; that the direct Gram-stained smear is a useful, highly specific, rapid screening test; and that the lengthier methods of culture and histologic examination have comparably high sensitivity for the definitive diagnosis of H. pylori gastritis. 
Restriction of regional blood flow and diaphragmatic contractility. We have tested the hypothesis that the diaphragmatic head-to-head arterial anastomosis system should maintain adequate diaphragmatic function even during occlusion of some of its arteries. In six anesthetized open-chest dogs, left phrenic vein blood flow (Qphv) was measured by pulsed Doppler flowmetry. Contractility was measured by sonomicrometry in the left costal and crural diaphragm. The diaphragm was paced for 15 min by continuous bilateral supramaximal phrenic nerve stimulation. In five separate runs the following arteries were occluded at minute 5: 1) left phrenic artery, 2) internal mammary artery (IMA), 3) left phrenic artery and IMA, 4) descending aorta, and 5) descending aorta and IMA. Occlusion was then released at minute 10 of the run. In runs 1-3 there were no changes in contractility in costal or crural diaphragm and no changes in Qphv. However, in runs 4 and 5, Qphv decreased to 55.2 +/- 7.4 and 24.0 +/- 6.5% of control values, respectively. In run 4, percent maximum shortening from functional residual capacity (%LFRC) of the crural diaphragm decreased by 39.1%, while %LFRC of the costal diaphragm increased by 41.4% and abdominal pressure decreased by 47.0%. In run 5, abdominal pressure decreased by 53.5% and %LFRC of the crural and costal diaphragm decreased by 45.5 and 5.8%, respectively. Also relative postocclusion hyperemia was greater in run 5 (64.8%) than in run 4 (40.2%). 
The decision to suggest screening lower gastrointestinal endoscopy: the effect of training. Primary care residency directors in the Southeastern US were surveyed to obtain information on training in lower gastrointestinal endoscopy (LGIE). All residents in a sample of programs were asked to complete a similar questionnaire. Response was 77% for family practice residencies and 60% for internal medicine residencies. Significantly fewer (43%) internal medicine residents reported receiving training in either 35 cm or 60 cm LGIE than family practice residents (77%). When asked if they would suggest LGIE to screen an asymptomatic patient, 67% of family practice and 84% of internal medicine residents replied affirmatively. Those residents who had received training were significantly more likely to suggest screening LGIE. The screening decision was not influenced by the specialty of the physician who supervised the resident training. Out-of-pocket cost to the patient was expected to be a major consideration in the screening decision, but this was not supported statistically. Greater availability of residency training in LGIE will likely increase its use in screening. 
Successful term delivery by cesarean section in a patient with a continent ileocecal urinary reservoir. Childbirth in a mother with a continent urinary reservoir to our knowledge has not been previously reported. The effects of the gravid uterus on the reservoir are presented, as well as management of the pregnancy and delivery. 
Base deficit as an indicator of significant abdominal injury. OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative predictive value of the arterial base deficit (BD) as an indicator of intra-abdominal injury (AI) and to compare BD with other indicators (chest injuries, pelvic fractures) of AI. DESIGN: Retrospective case-control analysis. SETTING: University of California San Diego Medical Center. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Between January 1985 and July 1988, 3,223 blunt trauma patients were admitted, with complete records available on 3,011. Using a "best fit" multiple logistic regression, BD less than or equal to -6 was the single most important indicator of AI (P less than or equal to .0001), and the odds ratio for AI increased with each category of increasing severity of BD. Admission hypotension, major chest injury, pelvic fracture, and field hypotension (in odds ratio order) also were significantly associated with AI. CONCLUSION: BD is a powerful indicator of AI. A normal BD does not exclude AI, but the presence of a BD less than or equal to -6 in a blunt trauma patient should be considered a strong indication for objective evaluation of the abdomen (ie, diagnostic peritoneal lavage). 
Effects of therapeutic doses of heparin on thrombolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator in rabbits. The objective of the study was to evaluate the ability of heparin to enhance the thrombolytic effect of recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and to prevent thrombus growth during and after thrombolysis with rt-PA. In the thrombolysis studies, three groups of rabbits were infused with rt-PA at a dose of 0.5 mg, 1 mg, or 2.5 mg over 3 hours, respectively. Rabbits in each group were randomized to receive, in addition to rt-PA, heparin, 20 or 60 antifactor Xa U/kg/h, or saline over 6 hours. The three doses of rt-PA produced the same extent of thrombolysis both in the two groups treated with heparin (34% +/- 6%, 52% +/- 7%, and 79% +/- 8% in the lower dose group; 39% +/- 6%, 49% +/- 4%, and 81% +/- 6% in the higher dose group) and in the group treated with saline (37% +/- 4%, 47% +/- 5%, and 84% +/- 7%). In the thrombus growth inhibition studies 0.5 mg of rt-PA was infused over 3 hours in each rabbit. In addition, the rt-PA-treated rabbits were randomized to receive heparin, 20 or 60 antifactor Xa U/kg/h over 6 hours, or saline. At the end of infusion, no statistically significant differences in thrombus growth were found in three groups of rabbits (54.8 +/- 7.4 micrograms and 52.4 +/- 12.1 micrograms in the low and high dose of heparin groups, respectively, and 59.4 +/- 10.4 micrograms in the saline group). In different experiments rabbits were randomized to receive heparin, 60 antifactor Xa U/kg/h, or saline at the end of the rt-PA infusion. In these experiments heparin inhibited thrombus growth more efficiently than saline (41.1 +/- 6.5 micrograms and 58.7 +/- 12.9 micrograms, respectively, P less than .05). In vitro experiments confirmed that heparin is unable to prevent fibrin accretion on the clots during lysis with rt-PA while both D-Phe-Pro-Arg-CH2-Cl (PPACK) and hirudin are able to prevent the accretion of fibrin. We conclude that the data obtained in these animal models do not support the concomitant use of heparin and rt-PA. However, heparin could be used successfully after rt-PA to inhibit thrombus growth. 
Flow cytometric studies of human osteosarcoma. A number of recent studies have emphasized the potential value of flow cytometry as a "marker" to assess the malignity and therefore to help predict the biologic behavior of neoplasms, including bone tumors. Using propidium iodide and a home-built flow cytometer, the authors have studied the DNA distribution in 95 patients with osteosarcoma and determined the percentage of cells in diploidy, S-phase, tetraploidy, and aneuploidy. Using these values and a derived one, mean DNA concentration, it was possible to demonstrate the extent of the abnormalities observed in this group of neoplasms and show their severity as compared with the normal pattern. When the data are compared against disease-free survival and total survival, correlations were noted that, although weak, suggested that some patterns were predictive of increased risk of metastasis and death. The effect of treatment could also be assessed by evaluating the pattern before and after chemotherapy and correlating these with survival. It seems likely that with some improvement in technology, flow cytometry will be of value in the future in assessing the prognosis for osteosarcoma and predicting whether treatment has been effective. 
Diarrhea associated with tube feeding: the importance of using objective criteria. Since the published incidence of tube feeding-associated diarrhea varies widely between 2.3 and 68%, and because commonly used definitions of diarrhea are subjective and imprecise, we determined the actual fecal output of malnourished patients during the first 6 days of tube feeding. Nine patients on the same isoosmolar formula were evaluated for diarrhea. Patients were interviewed daily as to whether they thought diarrhea was present or absent. Frequency of defecation was recorded, and stool was collected daily for weight. When assessed subjectively, the incidence of diarrhea rose from 11% on day 1, to 25% on day 4, and to 43% by day 6. The group (n = 4) complaining of diarrhea averaged 3.0 bowel movements per day, whereas those denying diarrhea (n = 5) averaged fewer than 0.2 bowel movements per day (p less than 0.01). Stool weight, however, plateaued for all patients by day 6 at 52.7 +/- 35.7 g of stool per day. No patient produced in excess of 250 g of stool per day. We suggest that traditional subjective measures for assessing diarrhea may be flawed and should not be relied upon when evaluating and treating tube feeding-associated diarrhea. 
Orbital fractures: surface coil MR imaging. Twenty-six patients with orbital fractures diagnosed with plain radiography and computed tomography were examined with surface coil magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Fifteen patients had blow-out fractures, and 11 had maxillofacial complex fractures. In all patients with blow-out fractures, the location of the fracture was precisely indicated by the presence of prolapsed orbital fat. Incarceration of the extraocular muscle or orbital fat was correctly diagnosed with MR imaging, which was less sensitive in depicting maxillofacial fractures but was useful in assessment of soft-tissue involvement. Postoperative follow-up MR studies provided valuable information about the cause of motility impairment. While T1-weighted images are useful for the detection of the fracture site, both T1- and T2-weighted images are usually necessary for evaluating soft-tissue lesions. The results of this study indicate that surface coil MR imaging is an important adjunct procedure in the diagnosis and treatment of orbital fractures. 
Physiologic measurement of exercise and fatigue with special reference to chronic fatigue syndrome. Oxidative metabolism is the major source of energy for muscle activity, and maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), the product of maximal cardiac output and maximal arteriovenous oxygen difference, indicates individual capacity for oxidative metabolism and performance of exercise by the large muscles. Strength, a function of muscle cross-sectional area, motor-unit recruitment, and neuromuscular coordination, is the ability to develop force in a single, brief, maximal-effort voluntary contraction of rested muscle. Weakness is a diminished ability of rested muscle to exert maximal force. Fatigue is a loss of maximal force-generating capacity that develops during muscular activity, likely originates within muscle itself, and persists until muscle is fully recovered. Individual perception of motor effort can be determined with standardized rating scales. These concepts are discussed in detail, their relevance to the pathophysiology of exercise in chronic fatigue syndrome is analyzed, and a general strategy of exercise evaluation pertinent to chronic fatigue syndrome is presented. 
Intestinal and renal calcium-binding protein in rats with experimental short bowel syndrome. Intestinal calcium-binding protein (calbindin-D9K) and renal calcium-binding protein (calbindin-D28K) levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assays in rats with short bowel syndrome induced by resection of about 85% of the small intestine. Rats with short bowel syndrome had significantly lower mucosal concentrations of calbindin-D9K (P less than 0.001) and a parallel reduction of both intestinal calcium absorption (P less than 0.001) and p-1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (P less than 0.01) in spite of a general hypertrophy of the duodenal mucosa. Interestingly, the renal concentration of calbindin-D28K was significantly elevated (P less than 0.05) in rats with short bowel syndrome, a change apparently related to factors independent of vitamin D. 
Total acromionectomy. A twenty-year review. Thirty-five patients (thirty-eight shoulders) were treated consecutively with a total acromionectomy between 1969 and 1989. At a minimum of two years (average, five years and eight months) after the operation, thirty-one patients (thirty-four shoulders) were available for review. The results, which were rated on the basis of pain, function, range of motion, strength, and the satisfaction of the patient, were excellent for twenty-five shoulders, good for four, fair for three, and poor for one. Four of the five least satisfactory results were in patients who had had a long-standing massive tear of the rotator cuff. This study was done to separate the criticism of the operative procedure of total acromionectomy from an avoidable complication of that procedure, retraction of the deltoid, and to describe the specific advantages and satisfactory results that occur when that complication is avoided. It is my opinion that failure to repair the deltoid adequately results in retraction of that muscle, and that this avoidable complication is responsible for the unfavorable reputation of total acromionectomy. 
Visual recognition memory. Neurophysiological evidence for the role of temporal white matter in man. A novel event-related potential (ERP) elicited by a visuospatial recognition memory task was recorded in 20 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy using depth electrodes sited in the temporal lobes. The ERPs comprised two components, an N400 and a P600, and were similar in morphology to the previously reported ERP to verbal recognition memory tasks. The two ERP components in both verbal and visuospatial tasks were dependent on stimulus type and our data suggest that they do not simply represent delayed P300 ERP responses. In 17/20 patients robust, reliable bilaterally present ERPs were elicited by both verbal and visuospatial memory tasks. N400 amplitude was larger in response to novel stimuli, whereas P600 amplitude was larger to repeated stimuli. P600 amplitude was larger in the right temporal lobe to both visuospatial and verbal stimulus material. N400 and P600 latencies did not vary with task, stimulus type or side of recording. In 3/20 patients, no ERPs were elicited by either memory task. In all 3 cases, unilateral temporal white matter abnormalities were demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging. Behavioural measures, expressed in the form of standardized accuracy scores, did not differ from those of a normal control group, and hence are unlikely to account for the abnormalities in ERPs. These results are discussed with reference to the primate visual recognition memory pathway and suggest that ERPs to recognition memory tasks are generated by an interaction between the two homologous inferotemporal recognition memory pathways. 
Portal venous system after portosystemic shunts or endoscopic sclerotherapy: evaluation with Doppler sonography. We sought to determine the usefulness of duplex Doppler sonography in the assessment of blood flow and clot formation in the portal vein in 44 patients with portal hypertension and bleeding esophageal varices who had undergone either endoscopic sclerotherapy (28 cases) or portosystemic shunt procedures (16 cases). The main, left, and right portal veins (collectively referred to as intrahepatic portal veins), superior mesenteric vein, splenic vein, and shunt were assessed for flow direction, presence of thrombi, and collaterals. Patent shunts were visualized in 12 (75%) of the 16 cases. Clot was detected in 27 (69%) of 39 intrahepatic portal veins in patients with end-to-side shunts, in six (67%) of nine intrahepatic portal veins in patients with distal splenorenal shunts, and in five (5%) of 92 intrahepatic portal veins in patients who had had endoscopic sclerotherapy. Flow in the main portal vein was hepatopetal in two (15%) of 13 patients with patent shunts (one end-to-side portacaval shunt and one distal splenorenal shunt). Flow in the main portal vein was hepatopetal in 26 (93%) of 28 patients who had had endoscopic sclerotherapy. Our data suggest endoscopic sclerotherapy preserves antegrade portal flow and results in fewer portal vein clots than surgical portosystemic shunts do. Patterns of thrombosis and flow direction vary unpredictably from patient to patient. Shunt patency should not be inferred without direct visualization of the shunt. 
Colonic volvulus. The Army Medical Center experience 1983-1987. Colonic volvulus was first described in 1836 by von Rokitansky. The condition has been a formidable one, fraught with innumerable complications responsible for many deaths. Even with advances in surgical technology, mortalities have remained high. Often the diagnosis is delayed for hours or even days after presentation, and serious concomitant systemic diseases are often present. Treatment has been controversial, particularly the role of elective resection following successful nonoperative reduction. The Army Medical Center experience with colonic volvulus from 1983 through 1987 is reviewed. Fifty-four patients at the eight medical centers carried this diagnosis. Their presenting signs and symptoms are discussed. The Army patients are compared and contrasted with reviews presented in the surgical literature, and conclusions are made to give guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. 
Cardiovascular pharmacology of adrenergic and dopaminergic receptors: therapeutic significance in congestive heart failure. This review discusses the localization of adrenergic- and dopaminergic-adrenoceptors within the cardiovascular system and describes the cardiovascular and renal changes produced following the activation of these receptors by appropriate agonists. Whereas the role of alpha- and beta-adrenergic agents in the treatment of heart failure is well recognized, recent studies with dopamine (DA)-receptor agonists indicate that they offer a novel approach in the therapy of congestive heart failure. DA-adrenoceptor agonists reduce afterload by causing vasodilation and promote sodium excretion via direct activation of DA1-adrenoceptors located on renal tubules. Fenoldopam is a selective DA1-adrenoceptor agonist found to be effective in heart failure. It reduces afterload by causing peripheral vasodilation and produces natriuresis and diuresis. Dopexamine is a DA1- and beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist, and its efficacy in heart failure is due to its ability to provide mild inotropic support and cause a reduction in afterload. Ibopamine is a prodrug that is converted into its active metabolite, epinine. This compound activates primarily DA1- and DA2-adrenoceptors. It is effective in heart failure, and the mechanism progresses via DA1- and DA2-adrenoceptor-mediated reduction in afterload. Agonists of DA2-adrenoceptors reduce afterload by decreasing the release of norepinephrine and by reducing the levels of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Since both of these systems are active in heart failure, ibopamine offers a rational approach for therapy. The present review addresses the concept of pharmacologic intervention in adrenergic and dopaminergic influence in the cardiovascular and renal systems to produce changes that are desirable for the pharmacotherapy of congestive heart failure. 
Antihypertensive dose-response relationships: studies with the selective alpha 1-blocking agent terazosin. Terazosin is a selective alpha 1-adrenergic-blocking agent indicated for the treatment of hypertension. The aim of this multicenter study, performed in 256 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, was to define the dosing characteristics of terazosin (in the range of 1 to 80 mg) administered once daily. Patients were randomly assigned to placebo or active treatment groups; each group received 3 months of treatment, which comprised three ascending doses of terazosin, each administered for a 1-month period. As determined by conventional office measurements of supine diastolic blood pressure and by automated ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, there was a clear antihypertensive dose-response relationship for terazosin in the range of 1 to 5 mg daily. Except for the 80 mg dose, none of the doses above 5 mg (10 to 40 mg) appeared to provide additional efficacy. Both the office measurements and the monitoring data indicated that the ratio of trough (effect at the end of the dosing interval) to peak (maximum effect during the dosing interval) was at least 50% or greater during treatment with the 5 mg dose. Thus the 5 mg dose appeared to provide meaningful clinical antihypertensive efficacy and to sustain its effects throughout the full 24-hour period. 
Diuretic agents versus beta-blockers. Comparison of effects on mortality, stroke, and coronary events. Three recently concluded large randomized clinical trials have compared the preventive effects of diuretic agents and beta-blockers in the treatment of approximately 22,000 subjects with hypertension. In the Medical Research Council trial, bendrofluazide (10 mg daily) was compared with a dose of propranolol (as much as 240 mg daily), a nonselective beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Two selective beta-blockers, atenolol (100 mg daily) and metoprolol (200 mg daily), were compared with bendrofluazide (5-10 mg daily) and hydrochlorothiazide (50-100 mg daily) in the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension trial. In the International Prospective Primary Prevention Study in Hypertension, 160 mg of slow-release oxprenolol, a beta-blocker with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, was compared with a diuretic-based regimen not containing beta-blockers. In each trial, similar reductions in mean diastolic blood pressure were achieved with diuretic and beta-blocker treatment that lasted for several years. All-cause mortality and fatal and nonfatal stroke and coronary event rates were also similar in the treatment groups. Thus, it appears that beta-blockers are as effective as diuretic agents in improving survival and in preventing major morbid events. Regarding cigarette smoking and stroke incidence, observations based on post hoc subgroup analyses of the Medical Research Council trial were not supported by subgroup findings in the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension and the International Prospective Primary Prevention Study in Hypertension trials, and these observations should not form the basis for any treatment recommendations. 
Visceral fat accumulation: the missing link between psychosocial factors and cardiovascular disease? Neuroendocrine responses to psychosocial pressures have been well characterized. The defence reaction is followed by increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system. Essential hypertension might be induced by such mechanisms. The defeat reaction is characterized by increased activity along the corticotropin releasing factor-adrenocorticotropin hormone-cortisol axis, resulting in the inhibition of gonadotropin secretion. Such endocrine disturbances are followed by metabolic aberrations, and probably also by the accumulation of visceral fat. Subjects with abdominal fat accumulation (high waist/hip circumference ratio, WHR) have recently been found to exhibit a number of psychosocial handicaps, together with endocrine aberrations characteristic of the defence and, in particular, the defeat reaction, as well as the associated circulatory and metabolic aberrations. Such abnormalities, including the WHR itself, are established risk factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes. It is postulated that increased WHR is a symptom of chronic hypothalamic arousal as a result of a defeat reaction to psychosocial pressures. This might lead to the development of disease via circulatory and metabolic derangements. 
Dynamic F waves in neurogenic claudication. Serial F waves were elicited before and after ambulation in 2 patients with neurogenic claudication. In both patients dynamic changes in F wave parameters consisting of either unelicitability or increased latencies occurred postexercise. The time course of these changes and their subsequent rapid reversibility over 15 minutes suggest ischemic-induced conduction block and slowing in proximal motor axons. These physiological changes may account for some of the dynamic neurological symptoms of this disorder. Moreover, F wave exercise testing may provide corroborative information for the diagnosis of neurogenic claudication. 
Thromboembolism in patients with advanced mitral valve prolapse Thromboembolism in mitral valve prolapse (MVP) has been suggested to occur in relation to valvular cul-de-sac recesses and endothelial wear-and-tear denudations. Such pathology would be suspected to be prominent in advanced cases of MVP necessitating open-heart operation. We therefore analysed the prevalence of perivalvular thrombi and episodes of systemic arterial embolism (SE) prior to operation in 21 consecutive patients with MVP and severe valve regurgitation. No perivalvular or left atrial thrombi were found during open-heart surgery, but three of the patients (14%, 3-36% with 95% confidence limits) experienced SE, in one case despite long-term anticoagulation. All cases of SE took place less than 3 months before operation. The results indicate that persistent thrombi are rare in MVP and severe valve regurgitation. However, such patients run a substantial risk of SE when they reach a clinical and haemodynamic stage that makes valve surgery mandatory. 
Comparison of serial quantitative evaluation of calcified coronary artery plaque by ultrafast computed tomography in persons with and without obstructive coronary artery disease. Coronary artery calcium indicates atherosclerosis. Ultrafast computed tomography (CT) can noninvasively visualize and quantify coronary calcium, permitting the natural history of calcified plaque to be studied. This pilot study evaluates the ability of ultrafast CT to follow the progression of calcified plaque within the coronary arteries in patients with and without obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). Twenty-five subjects had serial ultrafast CT scans of the coronary arteries a mean of 406 days apart. Changes in the number of calcific deposits, calcified plaque area and volume, calcium density and total calcium score were measured. In the 20 patients with calcium on the first study, there were statistically significant increases in mean peak CT number, total calcified plaque volume, total calcified plaque area and total calcium score (p less than 0.0001 for all). Subjects with proved obstructive CAD (n = 10) on angiography had a 48% increase in calcified plaque volume compared with 22% in asymptomatic subjects (n = 10). Comparison of serial studies showed that smaller calcific deposits often coalesced into single larger calcific deposits. Ninety-eight percent (235 of 241) of deposits identified on the first study were accounted for on the second study. Patients with obstructive CAD had a higher number of new calcific deposits than did those in the asymptomatic group (55 vs 18, p = 0.058). Serial ultrafast CT accurately tracks the progression of coronary artery calcium. It is a useful technique for assessing changes in calcified plaque formation in both asymptomatic subjects and in patients with obstructive CAD. It may be useful for studying the natural history of CAD and the effects of intervention on the course of CAD. 
Arthritis and nephritis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Previous publications suggest that in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid factor (RF) may be "protective" against nephritis. In our study of 662 patients with SLE, we found that persistent, rheumatoid-like arthritis showed a much stronger inverse correlation with nephritis than RF. Of 186 such patients, 59 developed clinically evident nephritis (32%) compared to 263 of the other 476 patients (55%) (p less than 10(-7). RF showed only a weak inverse relationship to nephritis (p = 0.064). We conclude that the presence of persistent rheumatoid-like arthritis in patients with SLE identifies a clinical subset of patients who are less likely to develop nephritis than those with no arthralgia, no objective arthritis or only episodic arthritis. We hypothesize that such patients represent a genetically determined subset among patients with SLE and that perhaps they are more likely to bear the HLA-DR4 allele. 
Repair of inferior iridodialysis using a partial-thickness scleral flap. We present a technique of inferior iridodialysis repair using a partial-thickness scleral flap, which, in turn, employs a modification of the technique currently used to suture posterior chamber intraocular lenses under scleral flaps. 
Innominate artery occlusive disease: surgical approach and long-term results. We reviewed our experience with 54 patients who underwent innominate artery revascularization during a 10-year period. Their age range was from 16 to 75 years (mean, 49.8 years). The innominate artery alone was involved in 21 patients (39%); the remaining patients had additional arch vessel obstructions. Before operation, neurologic symptoms occurred in 25 patients (46%), arm ischemia related to claudication and microembolization occurred in 8 patients (14%), a combination of symptoms occurred in 17 patients (32%), and no symptoms were noted in 4 patients (8%). The extrathoracic approach to surgery was used in 16 patients (30%). Eleven of the 38 patients in whom the intrathoracic approach was used had endarterectomy of the innominate artery; in three of those, the procedure was combined with left common carotid endarterectomy. Bypass grafts were used in the other 27 patients undergoing procedures with an intrathoracic approach; in six of those, bypass was combined with carotid endarterectomy. No operative deaths occurred. Perioperative revascularization failure occurred in four cases; all of those patients underwent a second revascularization procedure, with a secondary patency rate of 100%. In four patients, late occlusion was noted at 6 months and at 1, 1.5, and 10 years. One patient had a permanent perioperative neurologic deficit in the distribution of the left carotid artery after a combined common carotid endarterectomy/innominate endarterectomy procedure. No neurologic deficits were directly related to the innominate artery territory. Long-term actuarial survival was 83% at 10 years. Early and late graft failures were related to inadequate inflow in bypass grafts, progression of distal disease in arteritis, and primary closure in endarterectomy. 
Fluconazole therapy for chronic disseminated candidiasis in patients with leukemia and prior amphotericin B therapy. OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy of fluconazole against chronic disseminated candidiasis (hepatosplenic candidiasis) in patients with leukemia in whom amphotericin B treatment had failed. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients with chronic disseminated candidiasis treated with fluconazole on a compassionate investigational new drug protocol. SETTING: Multi-institutional. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty consecutive patients received 100 to 400 mg of fluconazole per day for a median of 30 weeks. All had either failed to respond to treatment with more than 2 g of amphotericin B or had serious amphotericin B-related toxicities. RESULTS: Fourteen of 16 evaluable patients (88%) responded. Responses were observed in seven of nine patients in whom adequate doses of amphotericin B had failed and in all seven patients who had amphotericin B-related toxicities. In 12 patients, cytotoxic chemotherapy was continued without flare of the infection. Fluconazole was well tolerated with rare side effects. Aspergillus superinfection developed in three patients and contributed to the death of two of them. CONCLUSION: Fluconazole is a safe and effective agent with significant activity against chronic disseminated candidiasis. 
Respiratory muscle deoxygenation during exercise in patients with heart failure demonstrated with near-infrared spectroscopy. Exertional dyspnea in patients with heart failure may be due, in part, to respiratory muscle underperfusion. Near-infrared spectroscopy is a new technique that permits noninvasive assessment of skeletal muscle oxygenation by monitoring changes in near-infrared light absorption. With use of near-infrared spectroscopy, serratus anterior muscle oxygenation during maximal bicycle exercise was compared in 10 patients with heart failure (ejection fraction 16 +/- 5%) and 7 age-matched normal subjects. Oxygen consumption (VO2), minute ventilation (VE) and arterial saturation were also measured. Changes in difference in absorption between 760 and 800 nm, expressed in arbitrary units, were used to detect muscle deoxygenation. Minimal change in this difference in absorption occurred in normal subjects during exercise, whereas patients with heart failure exhibited progressive changes throughout exercise consistent with respiratory muscle deoxygenation (peak exercise: normal 3 +/- 6, heart failure 12 +/- 4 near-infrared arbitrary units, p less than 0.001). At comparable work loads patients with heart failure had significantly greater minute ventilation and respiratory rate but similar tidal volume when contrasted with normal subjects. However, at peak exercise normal subjects achieved significantly greater minute ventilation and tidal volume with a comparable respiratory rate. No significant arterial desaturation occurred during exercise in either group. These findings indicate that respiratory muscle deoxygenation occurs in patients with heart failure during exercise. This deoxygenation may contribute to the exertional dyspnea experienced by such patients. 
The role of second-look surgery in the management of advanced germ cell malignancies. The need for second-look surgery after chemotherapy in children with advanced germ cell tumors is controversial, particularly when levels of the tumor markers alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) or beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta HCG) are elevated at diagnosis. The authors evaluated the outcome of second-look surgery in relationship to tumor marker status in 27 patients with Stage III to IV disease who had completed four courses of chemotherapy. Markers were elevated at diagnosis in 19 patients. After chemotherapy, markers normalized in 12 of these patients. Second-look surgery confirmed complete response (CR) in these 12 patients, two of whom had residual masses on computed tomography (CT) scan (mature teratoma and necrotic tumor). The AFP decreased but did not normalize in seven patients; five had residual disease at second look and the other two later developed measurable disease. Of the eight patients with normal AFP at diagnosis, second look confirmed clinical CR in four. The other four patients had CT evidence of residual masses: surgery showed necrotic tissue in two cases, mature glial elements in one, and mature teratoma with glial elements in one. Thus second-look surgery added no information for treatment planning in children with elevated tumor markers at diagnosis and might best be reserved for patients without tumor markers at diagnosis and residual masses on CT scan, and those with persistent elevation of tumor markers and potentially resectable residual disease. Because of the possibility of small amount of residual tumor, second-look surgery may also be useful in patients whose markers normalize but who have residual masses on CT scans. 
The skier's nose: a model of cold-induced rhinorrhea. Cold-induced rhinorrhea (CIR) is a commonly experienced discomfort not previously addressed in the medical literature. In a 2-part study, we assessed the prevalence and described the characteristics of CIR and evaluated the efficacy of an anticholinergic nasal spray in its treatment. In Part 1, 90 general medical patients at a ski resort clinic were asked to describe their symptoms associated with cold exposure. Ninety-six percent reported some degree of CIR; 48% reported moderate to severe CIR. Fifty percent had some degree of nasal congestion and 33% reported sneezing. Allergic and nonallergic patients described similar degrees of rhinorrhea. In Part 2, 14 ski patrollers were given atropine sulfate in saline (AS/S) nasal spray before cold exposure in double-blinded placebo (P) controlled crossover fashion. Ninety-two percent noted improvement of CIR with AS/S and 8% experienced no change. None of the subjects noted worsening of symptoms, however, one subject reported excessive dryness at the AS/S concentration used. All 14 subjects receiving P experienced no change in CIR. We conclude that CIR is a distinct clinical syndrome frequently seen with cold temperature exposure, presenting primarily as rhinorrhea and sometimes involving nasal congestion and sneezing. Pretreatment with a 0.005% solution AS/S can effectively block CIR with only minimal short-term side effects. 
Inhibitors of hepatic DNA synthesis in fulminant hepatic failure. In certain etiological groups of patients with fulminant hepatic failure, poor survival may be due to lack of liver regeneration. In vitro experiments have shown that fulminant hepatic failure serum is cytotoxic to rabbit hepatocytes and inhibits DNA synthesis on short-term incubation with isolated regenerating rat hepatocytes. When fulminant hepatic failure serum is injected into partially hepatectomized rats at the time of maximal DNA synthesis, [3H]thymidine incorporation into hepatic DNA is reduced significantly. The effect is greater with sera obtained from patients with fulminant hepatic failure due to non-A, non-B hepatitis or an adverse drug reaction and is associated with a less than 10,000-dalton fraction. No stimulation of DNA synthesis is observed with injection of the greater than 10,000-dalton serum fraction into normal rats. In preliminary experiments, no increase in epidermal growth factor production has been found in liver failure. Overall, the substances present in fulminant hepatic failure serum appear to be inhibitory rather than stimulatory for liver cell regeneration. 
p53 in chronic myelogenous leukemia in acute phase. All patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) undergo clinical transition from chronic to acute phase. This transition is often associated with deletion of the short arm of chromosome 17 in the form of the i(17q) aberration. Since the p53 gene is a suppressor gene and is located on 17p13, we examined the possibility that it is inactivated during progression of CML. Therefore, we studied the structure and expression of p53 in the leukemic cells of a large number of CML patients in acute phase. We found that although the gene is rarely rearranged, one p53 allele is completely deleted in patients with the i(17q) aberration as well as in some patients who do not show karyotypic changes. In all of these patients the remaining allele is inactivated through loss of expression, rearrangement, or point mutation. Detailed analysis of some patients who carry both p53 alleles indicated neither loss of expression nor structural alterations. It appears that p53 loss of function is associated with progression of around 25% of CML patients. 
The motor control assessment: an instrument to measure motor control in physically disabled children. The Motor Control Assessment has been developed as a research tool for the assessment of motor skills in physically disabled children. In tests of concurrent validity it was found to be highly correlated with the results of the Physical Abilities Chart (Pearson coefficient = .96), and satisfactorily correlated with ranking of motor ability assigned using the clinical judgment of physiotherapists (Spearman rank coefficients = .63 to .97 in diagnostic subgroups). Estimates of both interrater and intrarater reliability were also high, with intraclass coefficients above .95. 
Diurnal fluctuations of arterial ketone body ratio in normal subjects and patients with liver dysfunction. To explore the metabolic aspects of chronic liver disease, diurnal changes of arterial ketone body ratio (acetoacetate/3-hydroxybutyrate), reflecting hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were investigated in normal subjects, patients with chronic liver disease (Child's class A or B), and patients with hepatic failure (Child's class C). Ketone body ratio in normal subjects increased after breakfast from 0.96 to 2.00, after lunch from 2.17 to 2.38, and after dinner from 1.23 to 2.55 with blood glucose level ranging from 103 to 141 mg/dL (5.7 to 7.8 mmol/L). By contrast, the ketone body ratio in the Child A or B group changed little and remained within a range of 0.70-1.35 despite a large change in blood glucose level from 102 to 176 mg/dL (5.7 to 9.8 mmol/L). Ketone body ratio in Child's class C remained near or below 0.4 with no response to glucose administration, despite a marked elevation in blood glucose level. These results indicate that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential undergoes diurnal changes in sharp response to meals in normal liver function but that these fluctuations are absent in patients with liver damage (Child's class A, B, and C). Furthermore, it remains at low levels in severe liver failure (Child's class C). It is also suggested that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential plays an important role in the regulation of blood glucose levels. 
Pathological hypertrophy and cardiac interstitium. Fibrosis and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is the major risk factor associated with myocardial failure. An explanation for why a presumptive adaptation such as LVH would prove pathological has been elusive. Insights into the impairment in contractility of the hypertrophied myocardium have been sought in the biochemistry of cardiac myocyte contraction. Equally compelling is a consideration of abnormalities in myocardial structure that impair organ contractile function while preserving myocyte contractility. For example, in the LVH that accompanies hypertension, the extracellular space is frequently the site of an abnormal accumulation of fibrillar collagen. This reactive and progressive interstitial and perivascular fibrosis accounts for abnormal myocardial stiffness and ultimately ventricular dysfunction and is likely a result of cardiac fibroblast growth and enhanced collagen synthesis. The disproportionate involvement of this nonmyocyte cell, however, is not a uniform accompaniment to myocyte hypertrophy and LVH, suggesting that the growth of myocyte and nonmyocyte cells is independent of each other. This has now been demonstrated in in vivo studies of experimental hypertension in which the abnormal fibrous tissue response was found in the hypertensive, hypertrophied left ventricle as well as in the normotensive, nonhypertrophied right ventricle. These findings further suggest that a circulating substance that gained access to the common coronary circulation of the ventricles was involved. This hypothesis has been tested in various animal models in which plasma concentrations of angiotensin II and aldosterone were varied. Based on morphometric and morphological findings, it can be concluded that arterial hypertension (i.e., an elevation in coronary perfusion pressure) together with elevated circulating aldosterone are associated with cardiac fibroblast involvement and the resultant heterogeneity in tissue structure. Nonmyocyte cells of the cardiac interstitium represent an important determinant of pathological LVH. The mechanisms that invoke short- (e.g., collagen metabolism) and long-term (e.g., mitosis) responses of cardiac fibroblasts require further investigation and integration of in vitro with in vivo studies. The stage is set, however, to prevent pathological LVH resulting from myocardial fibrosis as well as to reverse it. 
Prospective evaluation of epidural and intravenous administration of fentanyl for pain control and restoration of ventilatory function following multiple rib fractures. To evaluate the efficacy of opiate administration regimens, 32 patients with multiple rib fractures were prospectively randomized to receive either continuous epidural (ED) or continuous intravenous (IV) infusions of fentanyl. Dosage was titrated to individual subjective pain relief. Ventilatory function tests (VFTs), arterial blood gases (ABGs), and visual analog scores were obtained before and after the institution of analgesia. Post-analgesia values were compared with pre-analgesia values using a two-tailed paired t-test looking for significant changes produced by the analgesic method. Both methods significantly improved analog pain scores. The ED method produced improvement in both maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) and vital capacity (VC), whereas IV analgesia only produced improvement in VC. Intravenous fentanyl produced increases in PaCO2 and decreases in PaO2, whereas no significant changes in ABGs were observed with ED fentanyl administration. Side effects were similar between the groups, with pruritus being more pronounced with ED fentanyl administration. The data demonstrate that the continuous ED fentanyl method offers excellent relief of pain and improvement in ventilatory function and has distinct advantages over IV fentanyl administration with respect to changes in ABGs and MIP. The continuous infusion of epidural opiates should be the preferred analgesic method for patients at high risk of developing pulmonary complications following multiple rib fractures. 
The value of immunological approaches to the diagnosis of schistosomal myelopathy. Myelopathy due to schistosome infection is a rare, yet probably frequently unrecognized, form of schistosomiasis. This condition is clinically difficult to diagnose, and without specific biopsy evidence final confirmation relies largely on circumstantial evidence. We describe here immunological attempts to diagnose schistosomal myelopathy. ELISA performed on the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was the most successful, detecting 12/12 cases tested prior to or within one month of treatment. This is based on a "normal" value established on neurological patients without myelopathy. Only 13/149 non-schistosomal myelopathy patients from an endemic area gave positive results in this test. Oligoclonal bands were detected in the CSF of 5/9 schistosomal myelopathy patients and 11/18 cases of myelopathy of other known causes, but in 0/7 cases of myelopathy where the cause was not established. Western blotting was unable to distinguish between myelopathy due to schistosomiasis and other causes. It is recommended that the ELISA be performed on CSF and the results be compared with a "normal" level for neurological patients. In our laboratory this system gives a high sensitivity and a negative result can be confidently used to exclude schistosomal myelopathy. 
Topical tretinoin for treatment of photodamaged skin. A multicenter study. The clinical and histologic effects of a new emollient cream formulation of topical tretinoin at concentrations of 0.05% and 0.01% were examined in 251 subjects with mild to moderate photodamaged facial skin in a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, multicenter study. Seventy-nine percent of the subjects who received 0.05% tretinoin for 24 weeks showed overall improvement in photodamaged skin compared with improvement in 48% of the vehicle-treated control subjects. Significant reductions were found in fine wrinkling, mottled hyperpigmentation, roughness, and laxity after 0.05% tretinoin therapy when compared with controls. In addition, histologic changes of increased epidermal thickness, decreased melanin content, and stratum corneum compaction provide independent evidence supporting clinical improvement. Side effects of erythema, peeling, and stinging were usually mild and well tolerated. 
Prognostic value of VEPs in young children with acute onset of cortical blindness. Visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were recorded in 32 children (ages 4 months to 5 years) who were clinically diagnosed as being cortically blind. None of the children had visual or neurologic abnormalities prior to the precipitating insult which included surgery (N = 15), trauma (N = 3), infectious disease (N = 5), hypoxia (N = 3), and other causes (N = 6). VEPs were recorded during the acute stage of cortical blindness in all children and were repeated in 24 of them. Either flash or pattern stimulation was used, depending upon the age and visual status of the child. All but one of the children who had normal flash VEPs while cortically blind, recovered normal visual function. All patients with abnormal VEPs had permanent visual impairment or blindness and all but one of those with absent VEPs remained blind. The recovery period was highly variable, ranging from 5 days to 3 years. Thus, flash VEPs recorded during the period of blindness were useful in predicting visual outcome, regardless of etiology. Repeat studies using pattern VEPs were valuable in monitoring recovery in many of these patients. 
Oral mesalamine (Asacol) for mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. A multicenter study. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a pH-sensitive, polymer-coated oral preparation of mesalamine in patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. DESIGN: A multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial. SETTING: Five university-based medical centers, one inflammatory bowel disease center, and three private practice sites. PATIENTS: A total of 158 patients with newly or previously diagnosed active ulcerative colitis. INTERVENTION: A pH-sensitive, polymer-coated oral preparation of mesalamine (5-aminosalicylic acid) was used at 1.6 and 2.4 g/d for 6 weeks. MEASUREMENTS: Efficacy was measured by scores for stool frequency, rectal bleeding, patient's functional assessment, sigmoidoscopic findings, and physician's global assessment. Stringent criteria for disease activity were established prospectively. RESULTS: The analysis of protocol-compliant patients showed a significant improvement at 3 weeks in patients taking 2.4 g/d of mesalamine compared with patients taking placebo (32% versus 9%; P = 0.003). At 6 weeks, both the 1.6 g/d (43%) and 2.4 g/d (49%) doses were significantly superior to placebo (23%) (P = 0.03 and P = 0.003, respectively). In addition, more patients worsened in the placebo group compared with the 2.4 g/d group (50% versus 19%; P = 0.003); however, there was no statistically significant difference in worsening between the 1.6 g/d mesalamine group and the placebo group. The oral mesalamine tablet was well tolerated, and no clinically significant changes were observed in hematologic, hepatic, or renal laboratory profiles. CONCLUSION: Colon-targeted oral mesalamine at 2.4 g/d is effective therapy for mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. It is well tolerated and should provide a viable therapeutic alternative to sulfasalazine. 
Protective effect of electrical stimulation in the deafened guinea pig cochlea. The effect of chronic intrascalar electrical stimulation on the spiral ganglion cell survival of the ototoxically deafened guinea pig was investigated. Immediately after ototoxic drug administration, unilateral sinusoidal (1 kHz) charge-balanced electrical stimulation on a 50% duty cycle was administered for 2 hours per day, 5 days per week, at intensities from 0 (control) to 400 microAmp via an implanted scala tympani electrode. The relationship of electrically evoked middle latency response (EMLR) to stimulation protocol and cell survival was studied. At 9 weeks post-drug treatment, the animals were killed and temporal bones were prepared for morphometric analysis of spiral ganglion cell density. The subjects showed essentially complete elimination of outer hair sensory cells, with minimal remaining inner hair cells confined to apical turns. Variable loss of spiral ganglion cell populations was observed, which related to electrical stimulation. In animals that received daily unilaterally electrical stimulation, statistically significant increases in survival of spiral ganglion cells were observed in the stimulated ear, compared to the nonstimulated ear-particularly in basal cochlear regions near the electrode. Spiral ganglion cell density was a function of stimulation current intensity level. Moreover, the slope of the amplitude input/output (I/O) function of the EMLR was found to be dependent on stimulating current level. The effect of stimulation on induced survival may be dependent on a number of mechanisms, including metabolic effects of direct activation of "deafferented" spiral ganglion cells. These data support the suggestion that implantation may provide optimal benefits when performed shortly after deafness. 
Left ventricular hypertrophy: impact of calcium channel blocker therapy. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) of the concentric type is the classic cardiac adaptation to sustained arterial hypertension. Data from the Framingham cohort have shown that patients with LVH have a severalfold higher risk of sudden death, acute myocardial infarction, and other cardiovascular morbidity than those with normal hearts. Common sequelae of LVH are ventricular ectopy, impaired ventricular contractility, myocardial ischemia, and decreased left ventricular filling. The benefits of antihypertensive therapy should not be limited to lowering arterial pressure, but should extend to preventing or reducing target organ damage. A variety of antihypertensive agents, such as calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antiadrenergic drugs, and, to a lesser extent, beta blockers, have been shown to reduce LVH and to improve left ventricular filling. We have shown that calcium channel blockers diminish ventricular ectopy in parallel with the reduction of LVH, whereas antihypertensive therapy with diuretics neither reduced LVH nor suppressed ventricular ectopy, although it lowered arterial pressure to a similar extent. Whether or not these cardiac changes with antihypertensive therapies will improve cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with LVH remains to be documented. 
The acute effects of flecainide in the swine heart failing from incessant supraventricular tachycardia. The acute hemodynamic and electrophysiologic effects of flecainide in tachycardia-induced ventricular dysfunction were investigated using an animal model. Seven swine were initially (CON) evaluated by echocardiography and then by right heart catheterization and provocative electrical ventricular stimulation both before and after treatment with intravenous flecainide. Rapid atrial pacing at 210 to 240 beats/min (SVT) was then employed for 2 to 4 weeks until echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction developed. Immediately upon termination of pacing, the above studies were repeated both before and after treatment with flecainide. Significant (p less than 0.0001) pacing-related hemodynamic effects on the cardiac output (CON:3.0 L/min versus SVT:1.6 L/min), right ventricular ejection fraction (CON:55% versus SVT:17%), and pulmonary wedge pressure (CON:8 mm Hg versus SVT:22 mm Hg) were observed. Pacing-related electrophysiologic effects included increases in the PR interval (CON:94 msec versus SVT:119 msec, p less than 0.001) and QTc interval (CON:418 msec versus SVT:450 msec, p = 0.016). With serum flecainide concentrations in the human therapeutic range, no significant effect on hemodynamic or electrophysiologic parameters in either the normal or failing heart were detected. Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia induced prior to pacing in one animal and after pacing in another animal was seen before but not following use of flecainide. No acute proarrhythmic effects were observed. In summary, intravenous flecainide had no significant acute adverse hemodynamic, electrophysiologic, or proarrhythmic effects in an animal model of tachycardia-induced ventricular dysfunction. 
Coronary thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. Intracoronary vs intravenous administration. We employed a canine model of coronary thrombosis, induced by injection of radioactive blood clot, via a catheter placed in the left anterior descending coronary artery, to compare effects of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) administered intravenously and administered directly into the coronary circulation. A control group did not receive rtPA. Compared with controls, both rtPA regimens induced coronary thrombolysis. However, compared with intravenous administration, rate and extent of coronary thrombolysis were increased with intracoronary administration. Most likely, the enhanced thrombolysis with intracoronary administration is explained by an increase in delivery of the drug to the thrombus. 
Aztreonam plus clindamycin versus tobramycin plus clindamycin in the treatment of intraabdominal infections. In a multicenter, randomized clinical trial, aztreonam and tobramycin were compared for efficacy and safety in the treatment of intraabdominal infections. Patients were randomly assigned to one of the drug regimens, and all but two patients were treated concomitantly with clindamycin. Efficacy of treatment could not be evaluated for 107 of the 316 patients enrolled in the study. Among the 209 patients who could be evaluated (104 treated with aztreonam and 105 with tobramycin), microbiologic cure was achieved in 93% and 86%, respectively, and a favorable clinical response was noted in 85% of the patients in both groups. The frequency of adverse drug reactions in the two groups was similar. In this study, the efficacy and safety profiles of aztreonam plus clindamycin were comparable to those of tobramycin plus clindamycin. 
Lumbar facet fracture as a possible source of pain after lumbar laminectomy. This study compared 50 patients with lumbar facet fractures and continued pain after lumbar laminectomy with a postlaminectomy control group without facet fractures. Computed tomographic analysis compared variables including direct measurements of bone resection. Average follow-up between surgery and postsurgical computed tomographic examination was 3.2 years. In the fracture group, more than one half of the bone immediately above the flare of the inferior articular process at the level of the laminectomy, measured in a medial to lateral direction, had been resected. No one in the control group had more than one quarter of this bone removed (P = .0001). Lumbar facet fractures may be one cause of late postlaminectomy pain. Caution in resection of a particular area of bone may avoid this problem. 
Cardiac manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome: a 1991 update. Cardiac involvement is being identified more often clinically and at autopsy in patients with AIDS. Recent estimates suggest that in the United States as many as 5000 patients per year may have cardiac complications resulting from HIV infection. Patients with AIDS may have pericardial, myocardial, and/or endocardial disease. Pericardial tamponade and/or constriction may be related to neoplasms, infections, or nonspecific effusions. Myocardial dysfunction may result from specific neoplastic infiltration or myocarditis. Particularly intriguing is the role of HIV-1 in the nonspecific myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy that occurs in patients with AIDS. As in other debilitating conditions patients with AIDS can have nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis. Infective endocarditis may be a complication, especially in AIDS associated with intravenous drug abuse. Most patients with AIDS have no overt clinical evidence of cardiac disease. When cardiac dysfunction does develop, the signs and symptoms are often misinterpreted to be the result of noncardiac causes (pulmonary failure or infection) which can mimic heart failure. This review is intended to alert the reader to the cardiac manifestations of AIDS, which present a number of diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. 
Glucocorticoids and immunosuppressants do not change the prevalence of necrosis and regeneration in mdx skeletal muscles. Therapeutic doses of methylprednisolone, azathioprine, cyclosporin A, and cyclophosphamide administered to mdx mice between 15 and 45 days of age failed to significantly influence the time course and prevalence of necrosis and regeneration or serum creatine kinase activity. This finding contrasts with previously reported findings of beneficial effects of glucocorticoids in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). This may indicate that, mechanisms upon which beneficial effects of glucocorticoids depend in DMD, do not operate (sufficiently) in mdx mice. 
Barrier function regulates epidermal DNA synthesis. We examined the possibility that the cutaneous permeability barrier regulates epidermal DNA synthesis in two acute and two chronic models of barrier perturbation. In animals treated topically with acetone, DNA synthesis is increased 102%, in tape-stripped animals 127%, in essential fatty acid deficient animals 50%, and in animals chronically treated with topical lovastatin 64%. This linkage between disturbances in barrier function and increased DNA synthesis is further supported by specific and correlative observations: (a) in these disparate models, artificial replacement of the barrier with a water-impermeable membrane inhibits the expected increase in DNA synthesis; (b) the extent of the burst in DNA synthesis is proportional to the degree of barrier abrogation; (c) the inhibition of DNA synthesis by membranes is directly related to the degree of permeability of these occlusive membranes, i.e., the more impermeable the greater the degree of inhibition; (d) topical treatment with lipids that restore barrier function corrects the increase in DNA synthesis; and (e) barrier abrogation with acetone produces an increase in epidermal DNA synthesis without altering bulk protein synthetic rates in contrast to events known to follow injury or cell replacement. Autoradiographic studies show that the increase in DNA synthesis after acetone treatment is limited to the epidermal basal layer. This constellation of findings strongly suggests that cutaneous barrier function is one factor that regulates epidermal DNA synthesis. 
Alcohol ablation of atrioventricular conduction Transcoronary ablation of atrioventricular conduction by dehydrated alcohol was attempted in 14 patients with refractory atrial arrhythmias. Alcohol (0.5 or 1.0 ml) was delivered after selective catheterisation of the atrioventricular nodal artery in the 10 patients in whom the artery could be identified by cineangiography. The other four patients underwent electrical ablation when the nodal artery could not be catheterised. Temporary atrioventricular block induced by dilute contrast and cold saline (0.9%) confirmed that the catheter was in the correct position before the alcohol was delivered. In all 10 patients complete atrioventricular block developed after alcohol ablation. The block persisted in all four patients given 1.0 ml alcohol but not in four of the six given 0.5 ml. The mean (SD) creatine kinase (MB fraction) at four to six hours after ablation was 76.5 (49.5) IU after 1.0 ml and 75.5 (43.1) IU after 0.5 ml alcohol (normal less than 20 IU). The overall success rate of alcohol ablation in the whole group on an "intention to treat" basis was 43%. The procedure was a technical success in six of the 10 patients in whom the nodal artery was identified. Transcoronary alcohol ablation of atrioventricular conduction should be considered in patients in whom electrical techniques have been unsuccessful. 
Absence of the medial malleolus. A case report with a 20-year follow-up study. This may be the second case report of the absence of the medial malleolus in the orthopedic literature. A six-year-old girl had an open fracture with a loss of the medial malleolus. During the 20-year follow-up study, she had no instability of the ankle, as in the first report, but after time she developed degenerative arthritis in the tibiotalar articulation. 
Portal venous barium intravasation complicating barium enema examination. Venous intravasation of contrast is a potentially life-threatening complication of the barium enema examination. A patient in whom portal venous contrast intravasation was nearly fatal is presented, and the significant morbidity and mortality from this unusual event is reviewed. Since barium infiltration into the venous system almost always occurs in the setting of altered mucosal integrity, this examination should be used cautiously in patients with inflammatory bowel disease or diverticulitis. Prompt recognition and rapid resuscitation are critical to the survival of patients with contrast intravasation. 
Breast reconstruction utilizing subcutaneous tissue expansion followed by polyurethane-covered silicone implants: a 6-year experience. Reconstruction of the breast after modified radical mastectomy can be safely and adequately performed in the subcutaneous plane. Placement of a subcutaneous tissue expander (as either an immediate or a delayed procedure), rapid expansion over a 3- to 4-month period, capsulotomy, and placement of a polyurethane-coated implant have led to satisfactory results over a 6-year period. Breast reconstruction methods are well documented; however, the utilization of expanded subcutaneous chest wall skin has not been reported heretofore. 
Invasive cutaneous melanoma in elderly patients. Clinical and pathologic variables were compared between "older" (greater than or equal to 70 years) and "younger" (30 to 39 years) patients with primary invasive cutaneous melanoma. Older patients had more nodular melanomas and acral lentiginous melanomas (58%); superficial spreading melanomas predominated in younger patients (74%). Mean tumor thickness was greater in the older patients (3.95 vs 2.02 mm). Invasive levels 2 and 3 occurred more often in younger patients (41.1% vs 13%); level 5 occurred more often in older patients (30.4% vs 5.3%). Microscopic ulceration occurred more often in older (46.4%) than in younger patients (19.4%). Older patients classified as clinical stage I at presentation or with primary lesions 1.50- to 3.00-mm thick had poorer survival. Younger women survived longer than younger men; this was not true of older patients. The elderly patients with cutaneous melanoma were more likely to have poor prognostic features and thus more likely to die from melanoma than the younger patients. 
Malignant mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis testis. Malignant mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis is an extremely rare tumor. Appropriate treatment consists of inquinal orchiectomy with close followup. Treatment of locally recurrent malignant mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis has not been standardized. We recommend radical resection for the initial presentation of locally recurrent disease rather than saving surgical resection as salvage therapy after other treatment modalities have failed. We report case 37 of malignant mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis and review the literature. 
Sciatic nerve entrapment in a child. Case report. A child was brought for evaluation of signs of unilateral chronic progressive sciatic nerve dysfunction found to be due to nerve entrapment in the thigh by a fibrovascular band. Sectioning of the band was followed by marked improvement in the nerve function. Compression by a band is a rare but treatable cause of sciatic neuropathy. 
Collagen vascular diseases of childhood. This article is devoted to collagen vascular diseases of childhood. The connective tissue diseases that are discussed are lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and dermatomyositis. Of the vasculitic syndromes, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy, and polyarteritis nodosa are discussed. Although the collagen vascular diseases are rare in the pediatric age group, when they occur they can be very serious. 
Outpatient dacryocystorhinostomy. We report 105 dacryocystorhinostomy procedures in 87 patients performed on an outpatient basis. Seventy-six patients received local, and 29 received general, anesthesia. The patients left the hospital an average of 2.6 hours after surgery, but 14 were admitted after surgery--9 immediately, and 5 after some delay, primarily for epistaxis. There were no serious complications related to the outpatient nature of the surgery. The success rate was 94%. We conclude that outpatient dacryocystorhinostomy is successful, well accepted by patients, and safe, provided that inpatient care facilities are readily available should they be needed. 
Blood pressure as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The Framingham Study--30 years of follow-up Data from 30 years of follow-up of the original Framingham Study cohort of 5,070 men and women aged 30-62 years who were first examined during the period 1948-1952 and who were free of cardiovascular disease reveal that blood pressure is a strong and consistent predictor of the development of coronary heart disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, and congestive heart failure. Other factors related to blood pressure like obesity, left ventricular hypertrophy as demonstrated on electrocardiograms, and heart enlargement as shown by x-ray radiography made several selective additional independent contributions to risk; heart enlargement by x-ray radiography was the best predictor of congestive heart failure. 
Binding sites for P and/or type 1-piliated Escherichia coli in human ureter. Adherence sites for uropathogenic Escherichia coli in the excised human ureter were studied by using scanning electron microscopy. P-piliated E. coli adhered to younger epithelial cells which had microvilli on their surfaces, but did not to mature epithelial cells which had microfolds on their surfaces. This adherence was D-mannose resistant and alpha-D-Galactopyranosyl-(1----4)- beta-D-Galactopyranoside sensitive. Type-1 piliated E. coli adhered to both types of epithelial cells, but it was prevented by D-mannose. Entrapment of adherent type 1-piliated E. coli was observed only on the epithelial cells with microfolds. This model system allowed quantitative estimates of bacterial adherence to the luminal surface of the human ureteral mucosa in vitro, and demonstrated different manners of adherence of P and type 1-piliated E. coli. 
Importance of antithrombin therapy during coronary angioplasty. Angioplasty procedures with balloons, cutters or lasers all may greatly enlarge the arterial lumen, but luminal diameter may decrease because of mural thrombus in 70% to 80%, smooth muscle proliferation, vasoconstriction or recoil. Thrombin binds to arterial wall matrix and fibrin within a thrombus. Heparin dose-dependently decreases platelet and thrombus deposition but does not eliminate these even at high doses. Specific thrombin inhibition started before angioplasty experimentally prevents mural thrombus and limits platelet deposition to a single layer or less. Experimentally, anticoagulant and antifibrin effects occur at lower antithrombin blood levels and lower activated partial thromboplastin times (1.7 times control). Because platelets are so sensitive to thrombin, the higher level of thrombin inhibition required may occur at a specific level (activated partial thromboplastin time greater than or equal to 2 times control); this is not defined in humans. The duration of therapy is not defined in animals or humans. Thrombus and thrombin may be related to cellular proliferation. 
Analysis of the colonoscopic findings in patients with rectal bleeding according to the pattern of their presenting symptoms. Patients presenting with rectal bleeding were prospectively categorized according to the pattern of their presentation into those with outlet bleeding (n = 115), suspicious bleeding (n = 59), hemorrhage (n = 27), and occult bleeding (n = 68). All patients underwent colonoscopy and this was complete in 94 percent. There were 34 patients with carcinoma and 69 with adenomas greater than 1 cm diameter. The percentage of neoplasms proximal to the splenic flexure was 1 percent in outlet bleeding, 24 percent with suspicious bleeding, 75 percent with hemorrhage, and 73 percent with occult bleeding. Barium enema was available in 78 patients and was falsely positive for neoplasms in 21 percent and falsely negative in 45 percent. Colonoscopy is the investigation of choice in patients with suspicious, occult, or severe rectal bleeding. Bleeding of a typical outlet pattern may be investigated by flexible sigmoidoscopy. 
Antibodies against dengue viral proteins in primary and secondary dengue hemorrhagic fever. Antibodies against dengue viral proteins were demonstrated in sera from dengue-infected patients by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, Western blotting, and enzyme immunoassay. Primary dengue cases showed low titers of IgG class antibodies to envelope (E) proteins and two non-structural proteins, NS3 and NS5, in sera collected during the convalescent phase. Secondary dengue- infected patients always demonstrated IgG antibodies to E proteins in sera collected during the acute phase, and high titers of IgG antibodies to many other proteins, including NS1, NS3, NS5, and C proteins in sera collected during the convalescent phase. Appearance of antibodies to E, NS3, and NS5 could be detected within five days after the onset of fever. These three dengue viral proteins and their corresponding antibodies may be involved in the immunopathologic mechanism underlying this disease. For diagnostic purposes, identifying the non-structural proteins such as NS3 and NS5 may be the best means for early confirmation of the disease. 
The spectrum of eosinophilic gastroenteritis. Report of six pediatric cases and review of the literature. Eosinophilic gastroenteritis is an inflammatory disease of unknown etiology characterized by infiltration of the gastrointestinal tract with eosinophilic leukocytes, accompanied by varying abdominal symptoms and usually by peripheral blood eosinophilia. We report our experience with six pediatric cases presenting to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation over the past eight years. Unusual findings in our patients included ascitic fluid without eosinophilia and eosinophilic pericarditis (one patient), and eosinophilic cholecystitis (one patient). Endoscopic examination and biopsy helped to establish the diagnosis in all patients. Bone marrow aspiration supported the diagnosis by demonstrating eosinophilia and identifying reactivation of the disease, even in cases without peripheral eosinophilia. All six patients responded promptly to prednisone. Diagnosis is challenging and eosinophilic gastroenteritis may be more common than is recognized. This series of cases significantly expands the spectrum of the disease in children, and documents the usefulness of diagnostic endoscopy in this condition. 
Ca2(+)-sensitive binding of thrombospondin to U937 cells is due to the formation of calcium precipitate in the binding medium. Thrombospondin (TSP) binds to U937 monocytic cells in a Ca2(+)-enhancible and EDTA-inhibitable manner (Silverstein, R. L., and R. L. Nachman. 1987. J. Clin. Invest. 79:867-874; Silverstein, R. L., A. S. Asch, and R. L. Nachman. 1989. J. Clin. Invest. 84:546-552). We reproduced the results when RPMI cell culture medium, but not when HBSS was used as binding medium. Addition of 1 mM Ca2+ to RPMI medium increased the binding of TSP to suspended U937 cells more than eightfold; the increase was blocked by EDTA but not by heparin. Further studies showed that addition of 1 mM Ca2+ to RPMI medium resulted in an insoluble precipitate, which did not form when EDTA was present or when 1 mM extra Ca2+ was added to HBSS. TSP bound to the precipitate in a saturable and specific manner. The precipitate enhanced binding of TSP to MG63 osteosarcoma cells in a monolayer binding assay. Enhancement of binding in the monolayer assay was observed for fibronectin and vitronectin as well. Our data indicate that there is not a specific Ca2(+)-dependent TSP receptor on U937 cell surface. Instead, the extra binding enhanced by Ca2+ is due to the formation of insoluble salts in the medium. 
Postural change in blood pressure associated with age and systolic blood pressure. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey II. The prevalence of postural change in blood pressure and its association with age and systolic blood pressure were examined in data from 8,574 White nondiabetic persons aged 25-74 who participated in the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (1976-1980). Postural change in blood pressure was defined as a drop of 20 mm Hg or more on change from supine to seated position. In subjects on no antihypertensive medications (n = 7,316), the prevalence of postural change in blood pressure increased with older age and with higher blood pressure levels, regardless of age. However, systolic blood pressure levels also increased with age. In logistic regression models, level of supine systolic blood pressure was strongly related to postural change in blood pressure (Relative odds (RO) = 1.59, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.49, 1.70 for a 10 mm Hg increase in systolic blood pressure) whereas age was not related to postural change in blood pressure (RO for age = 1.07, Cl = .89, 1.19 for a 10-year increase in age). Results were similar for those medicated for hypertension. All results were unchanged by addition of health status indicators, including reports of hospitalization and number of medical conditions, to the model. These data suggest that the age-related increase in the prevalence of postural hypotension previously reported may be partially explained by age-associated increases in systolic blood pressure. 
Salmonella enteritidis gastroenteritis transmitted by intact chicken eggs. OBJECTIVE: To determine the source and to describe the clinical importance of a large outbreak of Salmonella enteritidis gastroenteritis in Tennessee, which is outside the geographic focus of the S. enteritidis pandemic. DESIGN: A case-control study and tracing of the source eggs. SETTING: A Tennessee community and a large layer farm in Indiana. PATIENTS: Case patients ate at the implicated restaurant and subsequently developed S. enteritidis gastroenteritis; controls ate with the case patients, but did not develop gastroenteritis. MEASUREMENTS: Eighty-one case patients were identified; 73 (90%) had eaten egg-containing sauces at a local restaurant on a given evening. The eggs were traced to their farm of origin in Indiana. The farm was inspected 5 weeks after the outbreak. MAIN RESULTS: Of 24 patients with culture-proved cases, 11 were hospitalized. Hollandaise and bernaise sauces prepared with intact, extra-large, grade-A eggs were strongly associated with illness (P less than 0.001). Salmonella enteritidis was isolated from specimens collected from chickens and the farm. Antimicrobial susceptibility patterns, phage typing, and plasmid profiles of isolates from the farm and from patients were indistinguishable. CONCLUSIONS: Salmonella enteritidis infection is a large and growing public health problem that is spreading beyond the northeastern United States. This study shows a direct link between infected poultry flocks and an outbreak of human illness. 
Vasodilatory capacity of the skin in venous disease and its relationship to transcutaneous oxygen tension. Low transcutaneous oxygen tension (Ptc,O2) values in the supramalleolar skin of patients with venous disease are often reported. This measurement involves heating the skin to 43 degrees C to cause maximum vasodilatation and is valid only if liposclerotic and normal skin can vasodilate to the same degree. Forty-four limbs were studied, 15 with lipodermatosclerosis (LDS), 14 with uncomplicated varicose veins, and 15 controls. A Ptc,O2 electrode was modified to incorporate a laser Doppler probe. Laser Doppler flux was measured in the supramalleolar skin before and after local heating to 43 degrees C and the relative increase in flux was measured. The Ptc,O2 was then measured at the same site and on the chest. Vasodilatory capacity was expressed as the ratio of peak:basal laser Doppler flow, and the Ptc,O2 was expressed as a leg:chest ratio. Median laser Doppler flow was higher in limbs with LDS (median 67 mV) than in normal limbs (median 40 mV) (P less than 0.03). Ptc,O2 was higher in control limbs (median ratio 0.94) than in limbs with LDS (median 0.53) (P less than 0.006). The microcirculation in LDS had less capacity to vasodilate after heating (median factor of increase 5.4) than normal skin (median factor of increase 12.3) (P less than 0.001). A simple regression analysis was performed on all pairs of data, and revealed a correlation between Ptc,O2 and vasodilatory capacity (r = 0.524, P less than 0.001). The results indicate that low Ptc,O2 levels in venous disease reflect an inability of the microcirculation to increase its flow in response to local heating; inferences about the oxygen content of liposclerotic skin at normal temperatures cannot be drawn using this technique. 
Epicardial mapping in patients with "nodoventricular" accessory pathways. Some patients with electrophysiologic features suggesting nodoventricular fibers have been shown to have right parietal atrioventricular (AV) accessory pathways with decremental conduction properties intraoperatively. The experience with 11 patients (7 women and 4 men, mean age +/- standard deviation 25 +/- 5 years) who had electrophysiologic features consistent with a nodoventricular pathway and who underwent operative correction was reviewed. At electrophysiologic study, all patients had absent or minimal preexcitation in sinus rhythm. During atrial pacing and extrastimulus testing, maximal preexcitation with left bundle branch block morphology developed and the AH and AV intervals progressively prolonged. Preexcited tachycardia was initiated in all patients (AV reentrant tachycardia in 10 patients and AV node reentrant tachycardia in 1 patient). At operation all patients had a right parietal accessory pathway demonstrated. Intraoperative mapping demonstrated the earliest site of ventricular activation during anterograde preexcitation to be at the midanterior right ventricle, consistent with insertion of these pathways into the right bundle branch system, in 7 patients. The ventricular insertion was at the AV groove in 4 patients, in keeping with the typical Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Retrograde conduction over the pathway was not demonstrated in any patient. Two patients had evidence of a second accessory AV pathway in the left paraseptal region. Operative AV node ablation was electively performed in 2 patients without affecting preexcitation in either case. In 1 of these patients, accessory pathway conduction was temporarily abolished by ice mapping in the right anterolateral AV groove. 
A population-based perspective of the hospital incidence and case-fatality rates of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. The Worcester DVT Study. A community-wide study was conducted in 16 short-stay hospitals in metropolitan Worcester, Mass, to examine the incidence and case-fatality rates of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients hospitalized between July 1, 1985, and December 31, 1986. The average annual incidence of deep vein thrombosis alone was 48 per 100,000, while the incidence of pulmonary embolism with or without deep vein thrombosis was 23 per 100,000. The incidence rates of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism increased exponentially with age. The in-hospital case-fatality rate of venous thromboembolism was 12%. Among patients discharged from the hospital, the long-term case-fatality rates were 19%, 25%, and 30% at 1, 2, and 3 years after hospital discharge. Extrapolation of the data from this population-based study suggests that there are approximately 170,000 new cases of clinically recognized venous thromboembolism in patients treated in short-stay hospitals in the United States each year, and 99,000 hospitalizations for recurrent disease. Because of the silent nature of this disease and the low rate of autopsy in the United States, the total incidence, prevalence, and mortality rates of venous thromboembolism remain elusive. 
Heart rate patterns in fetuses exposed to cocaine. Heart rate patterns of 42 fetuses exposed to cocaine near the time of delivery were compared with patterns in 42 controls. Decreased long-term variability and an increased frequency of contractions were observed more often in the cocaine group (P = .046 and P = .0306, respectively). There were no significant differences in the frequency of fetal tachycardia or decelerations. Although accelerations were less frequent in cocaine-exposed fetuses, the difference compared with controls was not statistically significant. We found no characteristic heart rate pattern in fetuses exposed to cocaine near delivery. The heart rate patterns likely represent the underlying state of fetal oxygenation. Frequent contractions in an unstimulated labor should raise suspicions of maternal cocaine use. 
Prevention of cisplatin-induced emesis: a double-blind multicenter randomized crossover study comparing ondansetron and ondansetron plus dexamethasone. Ondansetron (OND) is a new 5-HT3 receptor antagonist that give complete protection from emesis/nausea in approximately 50% of cisplatin (CDDP)-treated patients. To evaluate if dexamethasone (DEX) added to OND increases antiemetic efficacy, we carried out a double-blind randomized crossover study to compare the antiemetic activity of OND with OND plus DEX. One hundred two chemotherapy-naive patients (44 women and 58 men) scheduled to receive CDDP chemotherapy at doses greater than or equal to 50 mg/m2 entered the study. Eighty-nine patients completed both cycles with the following results: complete protection from emesis/nausea was obtained in 57/59 patients (64.0%/66.3%) with OND and in 81/79 (91.0%/88.8%) with OND plus DEX (P = .0005/P = .0021). At the end of the study, 53% of the patients expressed a treatment preference, and of these, 74% chose OND plus DEX compared with 26% who preferred OND alone, a statistically significant difference (P less than .003). Side effects were very mild and not significantly different between the two treatments. We conclude that OND plus DEX is more efficacious than OND in protecting patients from CDDP-induced emesis and nausea. 
Transinguinal dissection of the femoral artery for aorto-bifemoral bypass. The authors report a surgical technique for high approach to the common femoral artery, just below the inguinal ligament, which can be useful in cases of difficult dissection of the femoral region or those with diffuse fibrosis or multiple scars. It is also useful when there is a concomitant inguinal hernia to repair. 
A phase I/II study of trichosanthin treatment of HIV disease Trichosanthin, a ribosomal inhibitor protein, blocks HIV replication in lymphocytes and macrophages. This agent was used to treat 51 patients with advanced HIV disease in a dose-escalation study in which three injections were administered over a 9-21-day period in a dose range of 10-30 micrograms/kg per injection. The maximum tolerated dose was estimated to be 30 micrograms/kg. Reversible but severe fatigue and myalgias were the major dose-limiting side-effects; mild leucocytosis and elevations in serum transaminases were noted and were reversible. Non-dose-related reversible mental status changes were seen in six patients and were considered to be associated with the drug. This was usually manifest as dementia, but progressed to coma in two patients. This reversed, but the sequelae resulted in death in one patient. Decreases in serum p24 antigen levels were noted 1 month after the first infusion in 10 of 18 patients who entered the study with elevated levels; one converted to negative. Values usually remained low to the end of the study period (2 months). In those patients with CD4+ cell levels greater than 50 x 10(6) cells/l significant decreases in sedimentation rate and increases in CD4+ cell numbers were also noted. These changes were found at all dose levels but only in patients receiving three infusions. 
Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy during maximal coronary artery vasodilation with adenosine. Pharmacologic coronary vasodilation as an adjunct to thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy provides an important alternative form of stress that has been increasingly used in patients unable to perform an exercise stress test. Although dipyridamole has traditionally been used for this purpose, there are several compelling reasons why adenosine may be a preferable agent. First, dipyridamole acts by blocking the reuptake and transport of adenosine, which is the effective substance responsible for coronary vasodilation. Second, exogenous adenosine has a very short half-life (less than 2 seconds), which explains its very short duration of action as well as the brief, self-limiting duration of its side effects. Third, the adenosine infusion is controllable and may be increased or decreased as desired. Fourth, the coronary vasodilation induced by the doses of adenosine we recommend (140 micrograms/kg/min) may be more profound than that induced by the standard dipyridamole dose. Our experience to date, with nearly 1,000 patients studied, shows the adenosine thallium-201 test to be practical and well tolerated, with high sensitivity (87%) and specificity (94%) for detecting coronary artery disease. 
Multiple keratoacanthomas: a case report with evidence of regression with thymic hormone. A case of multiple keratoacanthomas (KAs) arising on sun-damaged skin in a 63-year-old male is reported. The patient showed a moderate elevation of the T-helper/T-suppressor ratio. Therapy with thymic hormone appeared to improve the condition. 
Malignant colorectal strictures in Crohn's disease. One hundred thirty-two of 980 patients (13.5%) with Crohn's disease (CD) involving the colon, admitted to The Mount Sinai Hospital between 1959 and 1985, developed 175 colonic strictures. Thirty-three patients developed more than one stricture. The frequency was twice as great in colitis (19%) as in ileocolitis (11%). Ten malignant strictures were identified in nine patients (three ileocolitis, six colitis). One of these patients had three strictures (two malignant, and one benign), and two had two strictures (one malignant and one benign). The frequency of cancer in patients with stricture (6.8%) was higher than in those without stricture (0.7%, six of 848, p less than 0.001). There were no differences in clinical symptoms between patients with benign and malignant stricture. Seventeen of 165 benign strictures (10.3%) were long, extending over more than one anatomical segment of colon, but all 10 malignant strictures were short (p less than 0.0001). The age at the diagnosis of stricture was higher in the nine patients with malignant stricture than in the 123 patients with benign stricture (mean age 57.2 vs. 41.4 yr, respectively, p less than 0.01). The proportion of strictures that were malignant increased with duration of disease from 3.3% with less than 20 yr of CD, to 11% with CD of 20 yr or more. All nine patients with malignant stricture were treated surgically, and four of the nine died of colon cancer during a mean follow-up of 4.3 yr. Prognosis was worse in six other nonstricture cancers in this series, with five colon cancer deaths during mean follow-up of 1.6 yr. In view of the high rate of malignancy, 6.8% in this series, colonoscopy with biopsy is essential in Crohn's disease patients with colonic strictures, and surgery must be considered when a stricture cannot be fully assessed during colonoscopy. 
Congenital malignant melanoma. A case is reported of congenital malignant melanoma that occurred in the absence of maternal melanoma or a congenital giant naevus. The patient had the melanoma on the left thigh excised 54 days after birth, but later died at the age of 18 months with multiple metastases. 
Effect of aspirin on heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty in men who have osteoarthrosis. The severity of heterotopic ossification was determined from the radiographs of eighty-three men in whom osteoarthrosis had been treated with a primary total hip arthroplasty with cement. The medical records of these patients were then reviewed, with the reviewer having no knowledge of the radiographic findings. A similar operative approach and technique had been used in all patients. There was no association between the amount of intraoperative loss of blood or the duration of the operation and the severity of formation of heterotopic bone. The over-all rate of occurrence of heterotopic ossification was 72 per cent. Of the fifty-eight patients who had received aspirin throughout their course in the hospital, two (3 per cent) had severe ectopic ossification (grade III or IV8). In contrast, twelve (48 per cent) of the twenty-five patients who had received no aspirin or in whom aspirin had been discontinued so that anticoagulation could be begun had severe heterotopic ossification. The difference in the severity of the ossification between the two groups is significant (p less than 0.0001). 
Clinical aspects of 100 patients with Kawasaki disease. We report 101 episodes of Kawasaki disease in 100 patients seen over a 12 year period. A total of 35 patients had cardiac involvement ranging from pericardial effusion to coronary artery aneurysms with ischaemic complications, which resulted in death in one patient. Laboratory investigations showed leucocytosis, thrombocytosis, and a raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate to be common features and the first two variables were significantly associated with cardiac involvement. Treatment regimens changed over the study period. Aspirin was used in most patients often in conjunction with dipyridamole and from 1986 intravenous immunoglobulin was given routinely to those patients seen early in the illness. Additional therapeutic measures in individual patients included prostacyclin, heparin, streptokinase, and plasma exchange/exchange transfusion. Attention is drawn to the uncertainity of the long term cardiovascular consequences in the light of adults reported with premature atherosclerotic lesions of similar appearance to those seen in Kawasaki disease. 
Colorectal smooth-muscle tumors. A pathobiologic study with immunohistochemistry and histomorphometry. Smooth-muscle tumors are an interesting group of tumors that show considerable site specificity in their pathobiology. Recent work has also shown that some previously so-called smooth-muscle tumors were not, in fact, truly leiomyogenic, hence the origin of the more embracing term stromal tumors. The purpose of this retrospective study was to delineate the tumor subsets constituting colorectal stromal tumors, and to determine the histopathologic correlates for biologic aggressiveness for these tumors. The cohort was constituted of 12 patients; the mean follow-up was 6.6 years with a median of 5.0 years. Immunohistochemical evaluations showed tumoral positivity for muscle-specific actin (12 of 12), vimentin (11 of 12), desmin (two of 12), and S100 protein (zero of 12). Electron microscopic examinations corroborated this leiomyogenicity profile (five of five). Semiquantitative histomorphometric analysis showed that tumor size, cellularity, mitoses, and necrosis, in that order, correlated with biologic aggressiveness. The immunohistochemistry results for this cohort of colorectal stromal tumors vindicated the traditional histochemical evaluations in that all tumors showed features of leiomyogenicity. For colorectal smooth-muscle tumors, tumor size appears to be the best predictor for biologic aggressiveness. This study reinforces the concept of site-specificity for smooth-muscle tumors. 
Myocardial fibrosis in aging germ-free and conventional Lobund-Wistar rats: the protective effect of diet restriction. The influences of diet restriction and germ-free environment on aging were studied in 127 male Lobund-Wistar rats ranging in age from 7 to 48 months. There was an age-related increase in collagen deposition of the heart, particularly involving the left ventricle. The degree of fibrosis was significantly less extensive in middle and old age rats (18 mo, 30 mo, 32+ mo) maintained on a restricted diet. No clear-cut influence of germ-free environment was apparent. No amyloid was detected in 175 tissue sections examined from hearts, lungs, and livers. 
Comparison of allografts and prosthetic valves when used for emergency aortic valve replacement for active infective endocarditis. Aortic valve replacement (AVR) using allografts is an established method of treating aortic valve disease. It is uncertain, however, whether the increased technical demands of allograft AVR can be justified in emergency operations. This study reports 15 patients treated between 1987 and 1990 for acute bacterial or fungal endocarditis involving the aortic valve. Patients underwent emergency AVR because of severe congestive failure, overwhelming sepsis or cerebral emboli. Eight patients received prosthetic valves (group I: 4 mechanical, 4 porcine) and 7 received human allografts (group II: 5 aortic and 2 pulmonary). The groups were comparable in age (group I, 55 years; group II, 51 years), intravenous drug abuse (group I, 1; group II, 3), and previous AVR (group I, 3; group II, 2). One group I and 4 group II patients had septal abscesses. Additional procedures in group I included mitral valve replacement (2), tricuspid valve replacement (1) and aortic root replacement (1). Additional procedures in group II were mitral valve repair (1), root replacement (1), atrial septal defect closure (1) and aortocoronary bypass (1). Mean bypass times (group I, 189 minutes; group II, 204 minutes) and cross-clamp times (group I; 108 minutes; group II, 121 minutes) were similar. Operative deaths occurred in 4 of 8 group I and 1 of 7 group II patients. All surviving patients have been successfully followed (group I, 28 months; group II, 18 months). No group I patient has required reoperation. One group II patients required reoperation for recurrent infection affecting the allograft, and another group II patient died 10 months postoperatively from noncardiac causes. 
Atrial regulation of intravascular volume: observations on the tachycardia-polyuria syndrome. The atria, strategically located at the junction of the venous and arterial circulation, contain a network of neural and humoral structures by which they sense and regulate intravascular volume. Atrial receptors, most commonly consisting of complex unencapsulated nerve endings discharging into myelinated vagal fibers, are located in the intrapericardial portions of the caval and pulmonary veins and the adjacent atrial walls. Receptor activation by atrial distension results in increased afferent vagal fiber discharge, which in turn leads to tachycardia (Bainbridge's reflex) and decreased renal sympathetic nerve activity, renal vasomotor tone, and antidiuretic hormone activity. In addition, atrial distension also releases ANF, a peptide with potent diuretic, natriuretic, and vasorelaxant actions. The combined effect of these neurohumoral changes is the production of a large hypotonic diuresis. In the clinical setting the volume-regulating role of the atria is demonstrated by the tachycardia-polyuria syndrome. Laboratory and clinical evidence points to the activation of atrial neurohumoral mechanisms in response to atrial distension as the mediators of the polyuria that often accompanies paroxysmal tachycardias. The involvement of these mechanisms in other forms of cardiac congestion and the capability to easily measure in the blood an index of atrial distension, namely ANF, provide the opportunity to elucidate the pathophysiology and hence to open new therapeutic avenues in many cardiac disorders. 
Swallowing disorders and nutritional support. Evaluation of nutritional needs in patients with swallowing disorders should include a global assessment. This includes a nutritional assessment, a determination of the metabolic state, and a separation of the causes of nutrient deficits due to the patient's underlying disease(s) from diminished nutrient intake related to the dysphagia. Techniques for intense nutritional support are surveyed, and the complications of each are discussed. 
Promoting cancer prevention activities by primary care physicians. Results of a randomized, controlled trial. BACKGROUND. Previous interventions to promote performance of cancer prevention activities have largely targeted physicians in university-based practices. METHODS. We randomly assigned 40 primary care physicians in community-based practices to either (1) Cancer Prevention Reminders, computer-generated lists of overdue screening tests, and smoking and dietary assessment and counseling, supplemented by cancer education materials; or (2) controls. For each physician, we reviewed a random sample of 60 medical records for data about screening test, assessment, and counseling performance during 12-month preintervention and intervention periods. We calculated performance scores as percentage compliance with American Cancer Society and/or National Cancer Institute recommendations. Multiple regression analyses provided estimates of incremental differences in performance scores between intervention and control groups. RESULTS. Controlling for preintervention performance levels, significant incremental differences in performance scores between intervention and control groups (P less than .05) were achieved for nine maneuvers: stool occult-blood test, +14.5; rectal examination, +10.5; pelvic examination, +11.8; Papanicolaou's smear, +30.7; breast examination, +8.7; smoking assessment, +10.2; smoking counseling, +17.3; dietary assessment, +12.3; and dietary counseling, +13.9. Increments for sigmoidoscopy and mammography were not significant. CONCLUSION. Computerized reminders can significantly increase physicians' performance of cancer prevention activities in community-based practices. 
Prognostic parameters in spontaneous intracerebral hematomas with special reference to anticoagulant treatment. We examined a series of 200 consecutive patients with spontaneous intracerebral hematoma clinically and by computed tomography, excluding patients with trauma, aneurysm, or tumor. Hematoma volume varied from 1 to 230 (average 35) ml, and overall mortality was 30% (60 patients). Of the 200 patients, 14% (28) were receiving anticoagulants; among these 28 patients hematoma volume averaged 72 ml and mortality 57% (16 patients). The 140 survivors were followed for 2-24 months. Our findings indicate that anticoagulation therapy after previous cerebral infarction or embolism of cardiogenic origin did not predispose to intracerebral hemorrhage. Prognosis was poor when the initial level of consciousness was low and the hematoma volume exceeded 50 ml in combination with dilatation of the contralateral ventricle. An intracerebral hematoma of greater than 80 ml volume was always fatal, regardless of therapy. With volumes of 40-80 ml, early surgical evacuation of the lobar hematoma may improve outcome. 
Association of sustained oxyhemoglobin desaturation and onset of cluster headache attacks. Ten episodic cluster headache patients in their active cluster period, ten patients in remission and five control subjects were monitored for minute to minute changes in oxygen saturation (SaO2) and pulse rate before and after nitroglycerin (NTG) administration. A transient but significant decrease in SaO2 and increase in pulse rate of 25 minutes duration occurred following NTG in all groups. These changes may reflect physiologic hemodynamic effects of NTG as a smooth muscle relaxant. Subsequently, SaO2 levels and pulse rate recovered to baseline values in remission and control groups. In contrast, SaO2 values in the active cluster group decreased further and after an extended period culminated in cluster headache attacks in 10/10 patients. Three major changes, therefore, distinguished active cluster patients from remission and control groups. First, the magnitude of oxygen desaturation increased after the physiological effects of NTG ceased. Second, oxygen desaturation was sustained for an additional 9 to 30 minutes duration. Third, the hypoxemic state culminated in attacks in all cases. Our findings suggest that the active cluster period may be characterized by an impaired mechanism to autoregulate, and thus compensate, for hypoxemia. It is further proposed that persistence of hypoxemia and the cluster attack onset may share a common mechanism, coupling the two events. We suggest that abnormal central and/or peripheral chemoreceptor activity may be responsible for these events. 
Comparison of breast carcinomas diagnosed in the 1980s with those diagnosed in the 1940s to 1960s. OBJECTIVE--To find out if breast carcinomas diagnosed in the 1980s differ from those diagnosed a few decades ago. DESIGN--Retrospective comparative cohort study. SETTING--City of Turku, south western Finland. PATIENTS--439 patients with breast carcinoma diagnosed in 1945-65 with a median follow up of 27 years (95% of all those histologically diagnosed in Turku); and 370 patients with breast carcinoma diagnosed in 1980-4 with a median follow up of 6 years (94% of all those histologically diagnosed in Turku). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Breast cancer incidence, mortality from breast cancer, age at diagnosis, stage of cancer, seven histological factors, DNA ploidy. RESULTS--Age adjusted incidence of breast cancer increased from 30.8/100,000 person years in 1953-7 to 62.2/100,000 in 1983-7; mortality in breast cancer increased from 16.7 to 17.2/100,000 person years. Survival of patients with stages II to IV (but not with stage I) improved. The mean age at diagnosis increased from 55.5 years in 1945-55 to 62.5 years in 1980-4 (p less than 0.0001); the proportion of patients with T0-1 carcinomas increased from 13% to 41% (p less than 0.0001) and with pN0 carcinomas from 43% to 55% (p = 0.003) from 1945-65 to 1980-4. There was no change in histological type or DNA ploidy of breast cancer, but in the 1980-4 cohort carcinomas were more often well differentiated, had lower mitotic counts and less nuclear pleomorphism, more often had a well defined tumour margin, and had less tumour necrosis. There was, however, no difference between the two cohorts in these histological characteristics except for tumour necrosis when they were compared in a multivariate log linear model at a given size of primary tumour. CONCLUSION--Improved survival with breast cancer can at least partially be explained by detection of increased numbers of small carcinomas with favourable histological characteristics. 
Usefulness of the nude mouse model in mesothelioma based on a direct patient-xenograft comparison. A patient with malignant mesothelioma experienced tumor recurrence 3 months after pleuropneumonectomy. Samples of the tumor were transplanted into nude mice to assess chemosensitivity. There was close concordance between the results in xenografts and the clinical outcome in this patient. Both mitomycin and to a lesser extent cisplatin were effective as single agents against the nude mouse xenografts, and the combination of these two drugs produced a complete response both in the patient and in the xenografts. The patient survived 18 months from onset of chemotherapy and 24 months from diagnosis. The duration of clinical complete response to chemotherapy was 14 months, despite the fact that mitomycin, the most effective agent against the xenografts, was discontinued after only two cycles because the patient developed pulmonary toxicity. This direct patient-xenograft correlation further validates the usefulness of the nude mouse model in the search for effective therapies for malignant mesothelioma, a tumor characterized by frequent refractoriness to most available agents. 
Chromosome translocation and c-MYC activation by Epstein-Barr virus and Euphorbia tirucalli in B lymphocytes. Dual exposure to Epstein-Barr virus and purified 4-deoxyphorbol ester derived from the plant Euphorbia tirucalli induced a high frequency of chromosomal rearrangements in human B lymphocytes in vitro. Rearrangements most commonly affected chromosome 8, the chromosome most often showing structural changes in Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cells. E tirucalli is indigenous in parts of Africa where BL is endemic and may be an important risk factor for the disease. 
Relation between ST segment shifts during ischemia and thrombin activity in patients with unstable angina. This study was designed to determine in patients with unstable angina whether specific electrocardiographic abnormalities associated with ischemia, the presence of coronary lesions consistent with thrombosis on angiography or the presence of recurrent ischemia reflects increases in thrombin activity as manifested by increased plasma concentrations of fibrinopeptide A. The concentration of fibrinopeptide A in plasma was increased to 6.7 +/- 3.1 nM for the group as a whole (n = 29). Increases were greater in the 17 patients who exhibited reversible ST segment shifts (10.2 +/- 5.2 nM) than in the 12 patients exhibiting reversible T wave abnormalities alone (1.6 +/- 0.2 nM) (p less than 0.01). Nine of the 17 patients with reversible ST segment shifts who underwent coronary angiography had lesions with morphologic characteristics consistent with atherosclerotic plaque complicated by thrombosis compared with only 2 of 9 patients with T wave changes only (p less than 0.05). Plasma concentrations of fibrinopeptide A were markedly elevated in 7 of the 11 patients in whom complex lesions were noted on angiographic examination. Thus, the occurrence of reversible ST segment shifts identifies a group of patients with unstable angina in whom ongoing thrombosis is likely and who may be particularly likely to benefit from antithrombotic therapy. 
Leiomyosarcoma of the larynx: emergency laryngectomy. Leiomyosarcoma of the larynx is extremely rare. A patient with respiratory obstruction due to such a tumour is presented. This was originally misdiagnosed as hysteria. The treatment of choice was an emergency laryngectomy. 
A randomized trial of levamisole versus placebo as adjuvant therapy in malignant melanoma. We conducted a long-term follow-up (median, 10.5 years) of patients included in a randomized trial of levamisole versus placebo as surgical adjuvant therapy in 203 patients with malignant melanoma. Of the patients randomized, 104 received levamisole, and 99 received placebo. The results show that there is no difference between the treatment and control groups with regard to any of the three end points analyzed. These included disease-free interval, time to appearance of visceral metastasis, and survival. Moreover, there was no significant difference between the treatment and control groups after adjusting for age, sex, or stage of disease. 
Vitamin A levels in premenstrual syndrome. To determine whether changes in peripheral vitamin A levels are associated with symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), 10 PMS patients and 10 controls were studied. They gave blood at 2- or 3-day intervals through three menstrual cycles. The vitamin A was measured by fluorometry after cyclohexane extraction. In the controls, vitamin A values were 68.0 +/- 3.2 micrograms/dL (mean +/- SE) during the luteal phase and 69.8 +/- 4.2 micrograms/dL during the follicular phase. No significant changes were noted between the two values. In the patients, the values were 73.9 +/- 4.2 micrograms/dL during the luteal phase, which was not significantly different from 72.7 +/- 1.8 micrograms/dL during the follicular phase. No significant changes were noted between the controls and the patients in either the luteal or the follicular phase. Vitamin A deficiency in PMS patients was not demonstrated in our study. 
Observations and current operative management of congenital lumbar hernias during infancy. Congenital hernias in the lumbar region are very uncommon. Approximately 10 per cent of all lumbar hernias are congenital and the vast majority are unilateral. We report our experience with seven congenital lumbar hernias in six infants treated during a five year period. All patients presented in the first year of life with abnormal protrusions in the lumbar region. In addition to the lumbar hernia, major associated malformations, including caudal regression anomalies, diaphragmatic hernia, ureteropelvic junction obstruction, cloacal exstrophy and lipomeningocele, were observed in 66 per cent of the infants and were consistent with lumbocostovertebral syndrome. In five patients, unilateral defects were repaired primarily. One patient with bilateral lumbar hernia underwent staged repair. The larger right-sided defect was repaired using a polytetrafluoroethylene prosthesis. At a second operation two months later, the small left-sided hernia was closed primarily. All patients have done well without recurrence with a follow-up period ranging from four to 48 months. Early repair of congenital lumbar hernias in infants after correction of other life-threatening conditions is advocated. Unlike the acquired variety, congenital lumbar hernia may include a more extensive deficiency of the entire lateral abdominal wall extending to the rectus sheath and inguinal ligament and satisfactory closure of the defect without prosthetic material may be difficult or impossible. 
Left ventricular pressure-volume and Frank-Starling relations in endurance athletes. Implications for orthostatic tolerance and exercise performance. BACKGROUND. Endurance athletes have a high incidence of orthostatic intolerance. We hypothesized that this is related to an abnormally large decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) and stroke volume (SV) for any given decrease in filling pressure. METHODS AND RESULTS. We measured pulmonary capillary wedge (PCW) pressure (Swan-Ganz catheter), LVEDV (two-dimensional echocardiography), and cardiac output (C2H2 rebreathing) during lower body negative pressure (LBNP, -15 and -30 mm Hg) and rapid saline infusion (15 and 30 ml/kg) in seven athletes and six controls (VO2max, 68 +/- 7 and 41 +/- 4 ml/kg/min). Orthostatic tolerance was determined by progressive LBNP to presyncope. Athletes had steeper slopes of their SV/PCW pressure curves than nonathletes (5.5 +/- 2.7 versus 2.7 +/- 1.5 ml/mm Hg, p less than 0.05). The slope of the steep, linear portion of this curve correlated significantly with the duration of LBNP tolerance (r = 0.58, p = 0.04). The athletes also had reduced chamber stiffness (increased chamber compliance) expressed as the slope (k) of the dP/dV versus P relation (chamber stiffness, k = 0.008 +/- 0.004 versus 0.031 +/- 0.004, p less than 0.005; chamber compliance, 1/k = 449.8 +/- 283.8 versus 35.3 +/- 4.3). This resulted in larger absolute and relative changes in end-diastolic volume over an equivalent range of filling pressures. CONCLUSIONS. Endurance athletes have greater ventricular diastolic chamber compliance and distensibility than nonathletes and thus operate on the steep portion of their Starling curve. This may be a mechanical, nonautonomic cause of orthostatic intolerance. 
Organization and stability of a polytopic membrane protein: deletion analysis of the lactose permease of Escherichia coli. The overall topology of polytopic membrane proteins is thought to result from either the oriented insertion of the N-terminal alpha-helical domain followed by passive insertion of subsequent helices or from the function of independent topogenic determinants dispersed throughout the molecules. By using the lactose permease of Escherichia coli, a well-characterized membrane protein with 12 transmembrane domains and the N and C termini on the cytoplasmic surface of the membrane, we have studied the insertion and stability of in-frame deletion mutants. So long as the first N-terminal and the last four C-terminal putative alpha-helical domains are retained, stable polypeptides are inserted into the membrane, even when an odd number of helical domains is deleted. Moreover, even when an odd number of helices is deleted, the C terminus remains on the cytoplasmic surface of the membrane, as judged by lacY-phoA fusion analysis. In addition, permease molecules devoid of even or odd numbers of putative transmembrane helices retain a specific pathway for downhill lactose translocation. The findings imply that relatively short C-terminal domains of the permease contain topological information sufficient for insertion in the native orientation regardless of the orientation of the N terminus. 
Use of the ultrathin choledochoscope in cholecystectomy. Use of the ultrathin choledochoscope (2mm) was evaluated in 80 patients undergoing routine cholecystectomy. It was used successfully in 67 (84 per cent) patients. There were eight (12 per cent) explorations of the common bile duct and no negative explorations. The instrument was helpful in determining the nature of an equivocal on-table cholangiogram. The ultrathin choledochoscope may be useful in reducing the rate of negative common bile duct exploration. 
Induction of delayed hypersensitivity to human tumor cells with a human monoclonal anti-idiotypic antibody. There is considerable interest in the development of anti-idiotypic antibodies as vaccines in a number of diseases, including cancer. We have developed a human anti-idiotypic monoclonal antibody (105AD7) which binds at or very near to the binding site of mouse antitumor monoclonal antibody 791T/36. The 791T/36 antibody binds to a tumor-associated antigen (gp72) expressed on a number of human tumors, including colorectal and ovarian carcinomas and osteogenic sarcoma. This study shows that, in rats and mice, 105AD7 induces delayed-type hypersensitivity to human tumor cells bearing the gp72 antigen. Local transfer of delayed hypersensitivity was also demonstrated using lymphocytes from mice primed with 105AD7. These findings show that the human monoclonal anti-idiotypic antibody 105AD7 is likely to induce cellular immune responses to tumors in cancer patients. 
Histamine concentration of gastric mucosa in Helicobacter pylori positive and negative children. The histamine concentration was determined by enzymatic isotopic method in biopsy specimens of oxyntic mucosa from 37 children. Nineteen of the 37 had Helicobacter pylori associated gastritis (9 with duodenal ulcer). The histamine concentration in the H pylori negative group was mean (SD) 54.1 (23.1) micrograms/g fresh weight, and that in the H pylori positive group was 26.3 (14.2) micrograms/g (p less than 0.01). There was also a significant difference between H pylori positive patients with duodenal ulcer (19.8 (6.3) micrograms/g) and those without ulcer (31.4 (17.9) micrograms/g) (p less than 0.05). These results suggest that H pylori positive patients, especially those with duodenal ulcer, have reduced 'stored' histamine, perhaps because of increased histamine liberation. 
Intrathecal phenol rhizotomy for management of pain in recurrent unresectable carcinoma of the rectum. The medical records of 11 patients with recurrent unresectable adenocarcinoma of the rectum who had intrathecal phenol block for the management of intractable pain were reviewed. There were seven patients with pelvic and four with combined pelvic and perineal recurrences. Five patients had sacral involvement by tumor. Six patients had received prior irradiation. Three patients had good, three had fair and five patients had poor results after phenol rhizotomy. Patients with good results had relief for a median of three months. The over-all survival rate after phenol injection was three months. Phenol rhizotomy is indicated for the relief of intractable pain secondary to recurrent unresectable carcinoma of the rectum in carefully selected patients. 
Photodynamic therapy of oncogene-transformed cells. Photodynamic therapy with dihematoporphyrin ether sensitizes malignant cells to damage by 630 nm light. The in vitro, in vivo photodynamic therapy sensitivity of a cell line transformed by the Kirsten ras oncogene (45342) was studied to establish a new photodynamic therapy model. With the colony formation assay, neither light alone nor dihematoporphyrin ether alone affected 45342 survival. Energy-dependent photodynamic therapy effects were seen in vitro in dihematoporphyrin ether-incubated and light-exposed cells (90% cytotoxicity = 950 joules/m2; 99% cytotoxicity = 1575 joules/m2; p2 less than 0.05). Subcutaneous allografts of 45342 were established in nu/nu mice, and ideal route (intravenous or intraperitoneal) of dihematoporphyrin ether delivery, dihematoporphyrin ether tissue kinetics, and in vivo photodynamic therapy effects were examined. Intravenous administration not only gave higher levels of the sensitizer in various tissues, but also was associated with less variation than the intraperitoneal route. Selective dihematoporphyrin ether retention was documented in the tumors at 24 hours after injection compared with other tissues, and photodynamic therapy with 0.3 W/cm2 to a total dose of 150 joules/cm2 led to progressive coagulative tumor necrosis and tumor regression. These studies confirm that transformed, malignant cells are sensitive to photodynamic therapy, and this model may prove in future studies to increase efficacy to photodynamic therapy (i.e., with dihematoporphyrin ether delivery by monoclonal antibodies). 
Habitual leisure-time physical activity is associated with differences in various risk factors for coronary artery disease. Various risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) were compared in 100 healthy, male factory workers, divided into two groups of 50 each on the basis of their leisure-time activity. The two groups, designated as sedentary and physically active, were similar in terms of age and body mass index, but the physically active group had a significantly slower pulse rate. In addition, the plasma glucose and insulin responses to an oral glucose load were significantly lower in physically active individuals. Furthermore, fasting plasma triglyceride concentration was significantly lower and the high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentration was higher in the physically active individuals. Thus, substantial benefits in terms of CAD risk were associated with increased leisure-time physical activity. 
Echocardiographic assessment of atherosclerotic coronary lesions. Echocardiographic techniques to visualize normal and atherosclerotic coronary arteries include transthoracic, transesophageal, epicardial (intraoperative), and intravascular approaches. All are capable of visualizing portions of the coronary arteries, especially proximal, and demonstrating atherosclerotic lesions. However, none of these methods are able, at present, to completely examine the coronary tree, and therefore none are ready to be used as a standard clinical technique for the diagnosis and management of coronary artery disease. Technological advances will enhance the future clinical value and applicability of these techniques. 
Costs and health consequences of cholesterol screening for asymptomatic older Americans. To predict the consequences of cholesterol screening among elderly Americans who do not have symptoms of heart disease, we explore the cost implications of a cholesterol screening program, evaluate evidence linking hypercholesterolemia to coronary heart disease and mortality in the elderly, and describe the likely effects of therapy of hypercholesterolemia. According to our calculations, if all Americans 65 years of age and older adhered to a cholesterol screening program similar to the one proposed by the National Cholesterol Education Program, minimum annual expenditures for screening and treatment would be between $1.6 billion and $16.8 billion, depending on the effectiveness of diet and the cost of the medications used to treat hypercholesterolemia. There is no direct evidence that this program would lessen overall morbidity or extend the lives of elderly Americans. 
St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution. Beneficial effect of glucose and multidose reinfusions of cardioplegic solution. The intention of this study was to determine whether glucose is beneficial in a cardioplegic solution when the end products of metabolism produced during the ischemic period are intermittently removed. The experimental model used was the isolated working rat heart, with a 3-hour hypothermic 10 degrees C cardioplegic arrest period. Cardioplegic solutions tested were the St. Thomas' Hospital No. 2 and a modified Krebs-Henseleit cardioplegic solution. Glucose (11 mmol/L) was beneficial when multidose cardioplegia was administered every 30 minutes. Including glucose in Krebs-Henseleit cardioplegic solution improved postischemic recovery of aortic output from 57.0% +/- 1.8% to 65.8% +/- 2.2%; p less than 0.025. The addition of glucose to St. Thomas' Hospital No. 2 cardioplegic solution improved aortic output from 74.6% +/- 1.9% to 87.4% +/- 1.9%; p less than 0.005. Furthermore, a dose-response curve showed that a glucose concentration of 20 mmol/L gave no better recovery than 0 mmol/L, and glucose in St. Thomas Hospital No. 2 cardioplegic solution was beneficial only in the range of 7 to 11 mmol/L. In addition, we showed that multidose cardioplegia was beneficial independent of glucose. Multidose St. Thomas' Hospital No. 2 cardioplegia, as opposed to single-dose cardioplegia, improved aortic output recovery from 57.4% +/- 5.2% to 74.6% +/- 1.9%; p less than 0.025, and with St. Thomas' Hospital No. 2 cardioplegic solution plus glucose (11 mmol/L) aortic output recovery improved from 65.9% +/- 2.9% to 87.4% +/- 1.9%; p less than 0.005. Hence, at least in this screening model, the St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution should contain glucose in the range of 7 mmol/L to 11 mmol/L, provided multidose cardioplegia is given. We cautiously suggest extrapolation to the human heart, on the basis of supporting clinical arguments that appear general enough to apply to both rat and human metabolisms. 
Nimodipine and bradycardia in acute stroke--drug or disease? A patient who had suffered an acute ischemic stroke experienced bradycardia while being treated with nimodipine 80 mg tid. This became evident after the initiation of nimodipine and progressed, leading to the drug being discontinued after three days of therapy. The bradycardia resolved shortly after the treatment was terminated and normal heart rate was maintained throughout 23 days of hospitalization and in subsequent outpatient follow-up. Although nimodipine-induced bradycardia is possible, hemispheric cerebral infarction may also cause transient bradyarrhythmias in the acute stroke period. There is a need to monitor the heart rate and rhythm of all acute stroke patients, especially those receiving nimodipine. 
Prolonged reversible quadriparesis in mechanically ventilated patients who received long-term infusions of vecuronium. The use of neuromuscular blocking agents, particularly pancuronium, in patients receiving mechanical ventilation has been reported to cause prolonged paralysis and atrophy. We describe two mechanically ventilated patients with asthma who developed prolonged muscular weakness and atrophy after receiving the shorter-acting agent vecuronium. These cases illustrate the potential of any neuromuscular blocking agent to cause these complications, especially in patients who are immobile, have decreased renal or liver function, or receive concomitant myotoxic agents. 
Direct derivation of conditionally immortal cell lines from an H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse. Studies on cell lines have greatly improved our understanding of many important biological questions. Generation of cell lines is facilitated by the introduction of immortalizing oncogenes into cell types of interest. One gene known to immortalize many different cell types in vitro encodes the simian virus 40 (SV40) large tumor (T) antigen (TAg). To circumvent the need for gene insertion in vitro to generate cell lines, we created transgenic mice harboring the SV40 TAg gene. Since previous studies have shown that TAg expression in transgenic mice is associated with tumorigenesis and aberrant development, we utilized a thermolabile TAg [from a SV40 strain, tsA58, temperature sensitive (ts) for transformation] to reduce the levels of functional TAg present in vivo. To direct expression to a broad range of tissues, we used the mouse major histocompatibility complex H-2Kb promoter, which is both widely active and can be further induced by interferons. tsA58 TAg mRNA was expressed in tissues of all animals harboring the hybrid construct. Development of all tissues was macroscopically normal except for thymus, which consistently showed hyperplasia. Fibroblast and cytokeratin+ thymic epithelial cultures from these mice were readily established without undergoing crisis and were conditionally immortal in their growth; the degree of conditionality was correlated with the levels of tsA58 TAg detected. One strain of H-2Kb-tsA58 mice has been bred through several generations to homozygosity and transmits a functional copy of the transgene. 
Comparison of four laser types for experimental pain stimulation on oral mucosa and hairy skin. The use of different lasers for stimulation in human experimental pain research has provided a sensitive method for evaluation of thin nerve fiber functions. In this study, sensory and pain thresholds were compared to argon-, copper vapour-, Nd:YAG-, and CO2 laser stimulation on hairy skin and on oral mucosa. The influence on thresholds with respect to laser type, stimulation site, surface colour, and stimulus parameters (laser beam diameter and pulse duration) was investigated. Significant differences in thresholds between the four lasers were found on both surfaces; however, no significant differences existed between thresholds on the skin and on the tongue when the same laser was used. The observations imply that wavelength-dependent optical properties of the stimulated tissue influence on threshold determinations. Furthermore, the results indicate that temporal and spatial summation mechanisms may exist for laser induced warmth and pain perceptions. Laser stimulation may be a new tool for the investigation of origin and genesis of various orofacial pain syndromes. 
Role of partial laryngectomy after irradiation in the treatment of laryngeal cancer: a view from the United Kingdom. This retrospective study evaluates the use of conservation surgical salvage techniques in cases of early (T1 and T2) laryngeal cancer after full-dose external irradiation. Fifty patients in one London hospital and 68 patients in another were studied for the period 1963 to 1988. Treatment policy directed that the majority of limited glottic and supraglottic tumors should be treated initially by external irradiation. The small number of glottic treatment failures had a good chance of salvage by vertical partial laryngectomy if recurrence or a new primary was detected early. Recurrence of supraglottic cancer was salvaged occasionally by horizontal partial laryngectomy if strict indications were observed. Total laryngectomy remained the final minority salvage option. 
Radiofrequency current catheter ablation of accessory atrioventricular pathways. Tachyarrhythmias mediated by an accessory atrioventricular pathway and which are refractory to drug therapy have been treated surgically with variable success. Early results of direct-current catheter ablation were encouraging but were associated with complications such as barotrauma and the need for a general anaesthetic. We have investigated the endocardial application of radiofrequency current which is a potentially safer technique. Of 105 patients with an accessory atrioventricular pathway, 79 were located on the left side of the heart and 32 on the right side. Accessory pathway conduction was permanently abolished in 93 (89%) patients. Complications developed in 3 patients: thrombotic occlusion of a femoral artery, arteriovenous fistula formation at the site of groin puncture, and left ventricular rupture with cardiac tamponade after direct-current shocks. There were no deaths from the procedure. We conclude that radiofrequency current catheter ablation is both effective and safe for patients with symptomatic tachyarrhythmias mediated by accessory atrioventricular pathways. 
The five-year cure rate achieved by cryosurgery for skin cancer. Cryosurgery was used to treat 3540 new basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin from 1971 to 1989; a cure rate of 98.4% was achieved. To determine the 5-year cure rate in more recent years, the results of treatment of 684 nonmelanotic skin cancers from 1980 to 1984 were reviewed. In the group of 628 basal cell carcinomas, the 5-year cure rate was 99.0%. In the group of 52 squamous cell carcinomas, the 5-year cure rate was 96.1%. In the series were also four patients with basosquamous cell carcinomas, all of whom were recurrence free for 5 years or more. The overall 5-year cure rate in the 684 cases was 98.8%. On the basis of these data and our cosmetic results, we conclude that cryosurgery is an effective treatment that compares favorably with other established methods of therapy. 
Anterior transpetrosal-transtentorial approach for sphenopetroclival meningiomas: surgical method and results in 10 patients. This report presents a new surgical method and the results in 10 patients with petroclival meningiomas extending into the parasellar region (sphenopetroclival meningiomas). Minimal but effective extradural resection of the anterior petrous bone via a middle fossa craniotomy offered a direct view of the clival area with preservation of the temporal bridging veins and cochlear organs. The dural incision was extended anteriorly to Meckel's cave, and in cases with invasion of the cavernous sinus, Parkinson's triangle was enlarged by mobilization of the trigeminal nerve. This approach offered an excellent view from the mid-clivus to the cavernous sinus. Extra-as well as intradural tumor masses and dural attachments could be cleared under direct view of the pontine surface. The risk of injury to the lower cranial nerve and of retraction damage to the temporal lobe and brain stem were kept minimal by this approach. Total tumor resection was achieved in 7 patients, with no resultant mortality. Eight patients had a satisfactory postsurgical course, extraocular paresis being their main complaint. The extent of tumor resection depended on the degree of tumor adhesion to the carotid artery, and operative morbidity on the degree of tumor invasion of the brain stem. Of the 3 patients in whom subtotal tumor removal was achieved, only one experienced regrowth of the tumor and underwent a second operation during the follow-up period (6 months-6 years). 
Treatment of fetal supraventricular tachycardia with flecainide acetate after digoxin failure. Transplacentally administered digoxin is the drug of choice for the treatment of fetal supraventricular tachycardia. We describe a case of fetal supraventricular tachycardia associated with fetal hydrops that did not respond to digoxin treatment because of a lack of transplacental passage. In contrast, flecainide acetate crossed the placenta and cured the fetus. The clinical implications of this new treatment are discussed. 
Use of trabeculectomy with postoperative 5-fluorouracil in patients requiring extremely low intraocular pressure levels to limit further glaucoma progression. The authors conducted a randomized, controlled clinical trial to quantify the effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) on filtration surgery. Both eyes of 17 patients with either bilateral low-tension glaucoma or advanced chronic open-angle glaucoma that would be expected to progress at intraocular pressures in the normal range were included. One eye received a full-thickness filtering procedure with a modified shell tamponade technique, and the other received a trabeculectomy with postoperative 5-FU. Follow-up was equal for both eyes and averaged 9.2 months. In eyes in the shell group, the average postoperative pressure was 10.94 mmHg, and in the 5-FU group it was 6.94 mmHg, (P = 0.0001). However, the postoperative visual acuity decrease was significantly greater in the 5-FU group (P less than 0.05). Choroidal detachments also were more frequent in the 5-FU group, but this was not statistically significant. 
Transient myocardial ischemia during Holter registration before and after coronary angioplasty. PURPOSE: Revascularizing procedures like percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) aim at reducing the incidence and severity of myocardial ischemia. To evaluate this, continuous Holter ST analysis is a possible method. DESIGN: 41 patients (35 men, 6 women) with stable angina pectoris had continuous twenty-four-hour two-channel Holter registration (V5/aVF-analogous leads) recorded before and after PTCA. Transient myocardial ischemia (TM) was defined as 0.1 mV ST depression or more 80 msec after the J point for one minute or more. FINDINGS: PTCA was successful for 37 patients (90%). Eleven of these had a total of 53 episodes of TM, 36 (68%) before and 17 (32%) after PTCA (p less than 0.05). Fifteen episodes (28%) were symptomatic, and 38 (72%) were asymptomatic. Six patients had TM after successful PTCA, 5 of whom had one-vessel disease and a clinically uncomplicated course. One patient had multivessel disease, with only one vessel dilated. Follow-up angiograms for 9 of the 11 patients with TM revealed 5 restenoses. There was no significant correlation between TM after PTCA and subsequent restenosis (p greater than 0.05). IMPLICATIONS: TM is common in patients with stable angina pectoris. The incidence significantly decreases after successful PTCA, but TM is seen also with a clinically uncomplicated course. In multivessel disease this is consistent with incomplete revascularization, whereas in single-vessel disease the most likely cause is intermittent spasm or thrombosis. TM after successful PTCA does not seem to be a predictor of restenosis. 
Primary resection and anastomosis in obstructed descending colon due to cancer. Intraoperative colonic irrigation followed by one-stage resection is gaining popularity as the optimal surgical treatment for left-sided colonic obstruction. However, its efficacy and potential hazards have not been adequately tested in obstruction due to colonic cancer. We analyzed the early results of 23 consecutive patients with obstructive left-sided colonic carcinoma treated by primary resection and anastomosis following intraoperative antegrade colonic lavage. Two patients (8.6%) died, one from complication of anastomotic leakage. The significant postoperative complications were chest infection in three (13%) and wound infection in seven (30.4%). The average hospital stay was 16.5 days. The results of this study suggest that intraoperative bowel irrigation permits one-stage resection and anastomosis to be conducted with reasonable safety provided care is taken in operative techniques. 
Determination of serum acetaminophen in emergency toxicology: evaluation of newer methods: Abbott TDx and second derivative ultraviolet spectrophotometry. Newer methods for the determination of serum acetaminophen in emergency toxicology, the Abbott TDx immunoassay and second derivative ultraviolet spectrophotometry, were evaluated and compared to a high pressure liquid chromatographic procedure. The Abbott TDx immunoassay within-run and day to day precision yielded coefficients of variance below 2.7% and 7.2% respectively: Abbott TDx immunoassay results correlated well with those of high pressure liquid chromatographic in patient serums 15.0 to 333 mg/L acetaminophen; r2 = 0.954, n = 40. The Abbott TDx immunoassay assay was rapid, easy to perform, free of interferences from other drugs and exhibited no carryover from previous samples. The within run precision of the second derivative ultraviolet spectrophotometry method yielded coefficients of variance of less than 7.0%. Second derivative ultraviolet spectrophotometry results demonstrated good correlation with high pressure liquid chromatographic results in patient sera; r2 = 0.923, n = 40; however, performance deteriorated below 50.0 mg/L acetaminophen. Spectral interferences were noted at high concentrations of some drugs. 
Evidence for major gene transmission of developmental dyslexia. OBJECTIVE.--There is strong evidence that developmental dyslexia is both familial and heritable, but the mode of genetic transmission has remained unclear. In this article, we examine specific genetic hypotheses about the mode of transmission of developmental dyslexia by performing complex segregation analyses. DESIGN.--A family study method was applied, whereby the relatives of dyslexic probands were examined for dyslexia. The families studied represent four independently ascertained samples. SETTING.--The four samples of families were primarily from rural and suburban communities of Colorado, Washington State, and Iowa. PARTICIPANTS.--A total of 204 families and 1698 individuals in the four samples combined. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--The complex segregation program, POINTER, was used to test competing genetic hypotheses of how a categorical trait (dyslexia) is transmitted in families. RESULTS.--The results were consistent with major locus transmission in three of four samples and with polygenic transmission in the fourth. In these three samples, the estimates of penetrance for the AA, Aa, and aa genotypes (where A is the abnormal allele) were, respectively, 1.000, 1.000, and 0.001 to 0.039 in males, and 0.560 to 1.000, 0.550 to 0.897, and 0.000 in females. The estimated gene frequency of the major locus was between 3% and 5%. CONCLUSIONS.--Sex-influenced, additive, or dominant transmission occurs in a significant proportion of dyslexic families. Other evidence indicates, however, that dyslexia is etiologically heterogeneous and that there is genetic heterogeneity even among families selected for apparent dominant transmission. Thus, while no single major locus may account for all of dyslexia, it is important to pursue potential major loci for dyslexia using linkage techniques. 
Hepatocellular carcinomas with excessive copper accumulation: CT and MR findings. Results of orcein staining and findings obtained with non-contrast-medium-enhanced computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (T1- and T2-weighted images) were compared for 53 histologically confirmed hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). HCCs were 5 cm in the largest diameter. Three lesions with diffuse and strong orcein staining were highly attenuating on nonenhanced CT images. Electron x-ray microanalysis of one of them revealed copper. The high attenuation value at nonenhanced CT may have been due to the abundant copper-binding protein in the cancer cells. The difference between orcein staining results and attenuation patterns at CT was statistically significant (chi 2, P less than .001). It could not be concluded that the paramagnetic effects of copper in HCC had an influence on signal intensity on MR images. The difference between orcein staining results and signal-intensity patterns on T1- and T2-weighted images was not statistically significant. 
Review of duodenal diverticula. Duodenal diverticula occur in 2-5% of patients undergoing barium studies of the upper intestinal tract. Duodenal diverticula are classified into two types: extraluminal or intraluminal. Usually of little clinical significance, they can cause obstruction, cholelithiasis, ascending cholangitis, ulcers, and hemorrhage, and may perforate. Associated intestinal tract malformations have been reported in 40% of patients with intraluminal duodenal diverticula. Diagnosis is made by endoscopy or upper gastrointestinal series. In symptomatic cases, extraluminal diverticula are amenable to surgery, whereas intraluminal diverticula may be either surgically or endoscopically resected. Imaging of the biliary tree should be performed prior to any intervention. 
T1-weighted snapshot gradient-echo MR imaging of the abdomen. Magnetization-prepared ultrashort-repetition-time (snapshot) gradient-echo imaging is a technique of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with many potential applications. In the application of this technique to abdominal imaging, the effects on contrast of phase-encoding order, resolution, preparation-phase inversion time, and data-acquisition flip angle were predicted and then demonstrated with images obtained in examinations of 22 patients. In the analysis of 36 liver lesions, snapshot images were compared with corresponding T1-weighted spin-echo images on the basis of signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of liver and contrast-to-noise ratio (C/N) between liver and lesion. Snapshot MR imaging produced abdominal images with 192 (or 256) x 256 resolution, negligible motion artifact, and C/N 1.29 times (+/- 0.48) higher than that in T1-weighted spin-echo imaging. Acquisition times were 13 seconds or less, short enough for imaging during suspended respiration. Also, use of a phased-array multicoil further improves the S/N in snapshot images without acquisition-time penalty. 
Selection bias in the use of thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. The SAVE Investigators. OBJECTIVE. To determine whether clinical selection for thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction results in a skewed population for subsequent adverse cardiovascular events. DESIGN. A comparison of the clinical features of the patients in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Study who either had or had not received thrombolytic therapy was conducted in both univariate and multiple logistic regression analyses. SETTING. Hospitalized patients experiencing acute myocardial infarction from 112 broadly representative, private, academic, and government hospitals in the United States and Canada. PATIENTS. All patients in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Study had had a recent myocardial infarction (less than 16 days) and had a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less. INTERVENTION. Thrombolytic therapy was administered to 733 patients and was not given to 1498. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES. The comparisons with respect to use of thrombolytic therapy were formulated after the completion of enrollment and indicated that the majority of patients did not receive thrombolytic therapy. RESULTS. The 1498 (67.1%) patients who did not receive thrombolytic therapy were at higher risk (older age, lower functional capacity, greater likelihood of a history of prior myocardial infarction, angina, diabetes, and hypertension) for subsequent cardiovascular events and, as anticipated, were more likely to have concomitant gastrointestinal and neurological diseases. A multiple logistic regression analysis indicated that older age, prior myocardial infarction, impaired functional status, employment status, diabetes, and neurological diseases were predictors of use of thrombolytic therapy. CONCLUSION. Although the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement Study population was selected for left ventricular dysfunction, the majority of patients who currently are judged clinically as unsuitable for thrombolytic therapy have a higher risk for adverse cardiovascular events. 
Use of amiodarone for short-term and adjuvant therapy in young patients. Limited data are available defining the safety of amiodarone for short-term use or as part of combination antiarrhythmic therapy in pediatric patients. Results of amiodarone in 47 young patients for an average treatment duration of 12 months were examined. There were 21 male and 26 female patients (age range of 23 weeks gestation to 29 years). Patients were divided into 4 groups: group 1--electrocardiographic documented ventricular tachycardia (n = 7); group 2--syncope of unknown cause (n = 16); group 3--primary atrial tachycardia (n = 11); and group 4--supraventricular tachycardia (n = 13). Amiodarone was clinically useful in 32 (68%) patients. Amiodarone was considered effective as a sole antiarrhythmic agent in 21 (45%) patients. Treatment was ineffective but was continued in 11 (23%) patients; in 10 of these 11 patients amiodarone was adjuvant to other antiarrhythmic drugs. Amiodarone was considered ineffective and was withdrawn in 15 (32%) patients. No patient required cardiac pacemaker implant during therapy. Torsades de pointes and cardiac arrest occurred in 1 patient each after 9 and 14 days of therapy, respectively. Two patients underwent successful cardiac transplant after 2 and 14 months of amiodarone administration, respectively. Amiodarone was used as short-term treatment (less than 18 months) in 7 infants (age less than 18 months), and after cessation of treatment there was no recurrence of tachycardia for 4 to 24 months. Results of this study confirm reports of successful amiodarone use in pediatric patients with a variety of rhythm disturbances. 
Needle biopsy associated tumor tracking of adenocarcinoma of the prostate. We reviewed 350 previously biopsied completely submitted clinical stage B radical prostatectomy specimens resected between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1988 in an attempt to identify the incidence of needle biopsy associated tumor tracking into periprostatic soft tissue. We identified 7 cases (2.0%) of needle biopsy associated tumor tracking, 3 in which the only tumor penetration in the gland was limited to the needle track. The maximal soft tissue extension from the biopsy site ranged from 0.1 to 1.2 cm. and approached the nearest soft tissue margin to within 0.5 mm. in 4 cases. In contrast to prior reports showing clinically evident tracking only with transperineal biopsies from high grade tumors, 6 of our 7 cases were of intermediate grade (in the glandular and tracking components) and 6 had transrectal biopsies. Needle biopsy associated tumor tracking occurred with core (14 gauge) and biopsy gun needles (18 gauge). An additional 13 cases (3.7%) showed some features of needle biopsy associated tumor tracking but they were equivocal. These findings have significant implications in light of recent proposals advocating serial mapping of prostate cancer using the biopsy gun with potential conservative observation of smaller tumors. 
Hemorrhagic subcutaneous bursitis. Hemarthrosis is a well recognized complication of a number of conditions. Hemorrhagic subcutaneous bursitis is less understood. We encountered a patient with a myeloproliferative disease who developed hemorrhagic olecranon bursitis. Upon reviewing other patients with subcutaneous bursitis, we found that hemorrhagic bursitis also occurs in the setting of traumatic or idiopathic bursitis, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, and septic bursitis. 
Differential activation of ornithine decarboxylase and tyrosine kinase in the rectal mucosa of patients with hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps. Hyperplastic polyps are considered to be benign colonic lesions with almost no potential for malignant transformation. Recent reports have shown an increased association of hyperplastic polyps with adenomatous polyps and have advocated a full colonoscopy in patients who harbor hyperplastic polyps. Hyperproliferative mucosa is known to be associated with adenomatous polyps, but its relationship to hyperplastic polyps is unknown. In the present pilot study, it is determined whether a change in mucosal proliferative patterns is observed in patients who harbor only hyperplastic polyps or a history of hyperplastic polyps relative to those who harbor both hyperplastic polyps and adenomatous polyps by measuring ornithine decarboxylase and tyrosine kinase activity in macroscopically normal rectal mucosa. Fifteen patients had either adenomatous polyps proximally or harbored adenomatous polyps and hyperplastic polyps. Seven patients had hyperplastic polyps and 15 patients had a prior history of hyperplastic polyps with no polyps found during the current examination. The ornithine decarboxylase activity of the rectal mucosa with proximal adenomatous polyps or both polyp types was significantly higher than that of hyperplastic polyps, the history of hyperplastic polyps, or controls, and values for hyperplastic polyps and the history of hyperplastic polyps were similar to controls. On the other hand, tyrosine kinase activity in the rectal mucosa of patients with both or either polyp type was elevated without any significant difference between hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps. Thus, it is concluded that although increased ornithine decarboxylase activity in rectal mucosa suggests the presence of adenomatous polyps or a combination of adenomatous with hyperplastic polyps, increased tyrosine kinase activity suggests the presence of any type of polyp. 
Neurofilament distribution is altered in the Mnd (motor neuron degeneration) mouse. Motor neuron degeneration (Mnd) is a genetic neurodegenerative disease of the mouse that is characterized by a progressive increase in motor dysfunction, moving from hind to fore limbs, leading to paralysis. An immunocytochemical analysis of the neurofilament distribution in spinal motor neurons in Mnd mice from all stages of the disease, including the presymptomatic, was performed using antibodies to different neurofilament subunits with different degrees of phosphorylation. Perikarya that stained with antibodies to phosphorylated neurofilaments were present in Mnd and control spinal cords, but the number of stained perikarya in Mnd was not significantly different from controls. There was a marked redistribution of neurofilaments within the cytoplasm of some motor neurons in Mnd cords. In Mnd but not controls, the immunoreaction product appeared marginated, leaving areas in the cytoplasm absent of immunostaining. These areas were observed in all stages of the disease, but less predictably in presymptomatics. Both the size of the areas and the number of motoneurons containing these areas appeared to increase with the severity of the disease. The number of anterior horn neurons in the hind limb region of lamina IX in spinal segment L4 of Mnd was lower than in controls, suggesting there is a loss of neurons in Mnd. 
Delayed hearing loss after surgery for acoustic neurinomas: clinical and electrophysiological observations. In a series of 26 patients with medium-sized and large acoustic neurinomas and documented hearing before surgery, 7 patients had preservation of hearing initially after the procedure but then developed delayed hearing loss. The most prominent intraoperative electrophysiological finding in these cases was a gradual deterioration of brain stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP), especially of Wave V. Four additional patients with a similar gradual intraoperative loss of BAEP and severe postoperative hearing deterioration received vasoactive treatment after surgery (low-molecular weight dextran). In all 4 patients, including 1 patient with documented total deafness after surgery, hearing was preserved. Initial preservation of cochlear nerve function after the removal of an acoustic neurinoma does not guarantee postoperative hearing. Intraoperative BAEP help to identify patients at risk for delayed postoperative hearing loss. The pathophysiological mechanism can be attributed to disturbances of the microcirculation in endoneurial vasa nervorum caused by the mechanical manipulation of the cochlear nerve. 
Influence of left ventricular diastolic filling on symptoms and survival in patients with decreased left ventricular systolic function. The relation between left ventricular (LV) filling variables measured by gated blood pool radionuclide ventriculography and clinical symptoms and survival was examined in 93 patients who had decreased LV systolic function. The diastolic data were not significantly associated with clinical symptoms. Time to peak filling rate, peak filling rate and ejection fraction were associated independently with survival free of cardiac death (chi-square = 7.74, 5.91 and 3.92, respectively, by stepwise Cox regression analysis). A short time to peak filling rate or increased peak filling rate was associated with decreased survival, whereas the opposite indicated a good prognosis. One-year Kaplan-Meier survival was 73 and 98% when time to peak filling rate was below or above the median value of 167 ms, respectively, 82 and 90% when peak filling rate was above or below the median value of 1.67 end-diastolic volumes per second, respectively, and 76 and 95% when LV ejection fraction was below or above the median value of 0.35, respectively. Thus, filling variables (time to peak filling rate and peak filling rate) measured by radionuclide ventriculography may be valuable in predicting survival in patients with decreased LV systolic function. 
Exercise training in patients with impaired left ventricular function. Advances in the understanding of the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure have guided efforts in formulating effective treatment strategies. The epidemiology, etiology, and medical management of congestive failure are reviewed. The changing approaches to exercise and exercise training in patients with heart failure are discussed. Recent studies of the impact of exercise training in this important patient group are presented. 
Intestinal lymphonodular hyperplasia of childhood: patterns of presentation. In this retrospective analysis we searched for a constellation of signs or symptoms attributable to childhood lymphonodular hyperplasia (LNH). Of 147 children with documented LNH reviewed, 43% had lesions in the small bowel, and 57% in the large bowel. Children in this study presented with complaints of abdominal pain (58%) and bright red blood per rectum (32%). Physical examination revealed little except right lower quadrant (RLQ) abdominal tenderness and "fullness" in 35%. The pain was periumbilical, dull-cramping, rarely acute, and nonradiating. The hematochezia was most commonly streaky red in mucoid strands adhering to the stools, with no associated tenesmus. Three clinical patterns emerged: (a) Under 1 year of age most patients were male, with painless bleeding and pancolonic LNH. (b) Between 2 and 6 years, although the LNH was predominantly colonic, pain and bleeding occurred equally. (c) From 7 years old on, the main symptom was abdominal pain, but LNH distribution was nearly equal between the small bowel and the colon. To date, our long-term follow-up of the children with isolated LNH has revealed no sequelae. 
Interferon alpha-2b injections used as an adjuvant therapy to carbon dioxide laser vaporization of recalcitrant ano-genital condylomata acuminata. We retrospectively analyzed our treatment of men with anogenital condylomata acuminata (CA) at Hennepin County Medical Center and the University of Minnesota. Between October 1985 and August 1989, 48 patients with CA were treated with laser vaporization, and 27 were treated with laser vaporization followed by a series of intralesional interferon (IFN) alpha-2b injections. The patients in the IFN group were more likely to have perianal CA (44% vs 24%), had larger numbers of CA, and were more likely to have had previous treatment, including previous laser vaporization. The CA in the laser group were more likely to be on the penis alone (67% vs 45%) and had a longer mean duration. The laser-treated group experienced a 38.2% rate of recurrence or reinfection with a mean follow-up period of 13 weeks. The laser and IFN group had an 18.5% rate of recurrence or reinfection with the same follow-up. We conclude that intralesional injections of alpha-2b interferon following carbon dioxide laser vaporization of recalcitrant ano-genital condylomata substantially reduce the risk of recurrence or reinfection. 
Dysphagia after Nissen fundoplication. Nissen fundoplication is a commonly used antireflux operation. After this operation symptoms such as dysphagia, inability to belch and vomit, and gas bloating are frequently reported in the literature. In 32 patients who underwent Nissen fundoplication 3.5-18 years ago, postprocedure dysphagia was studied using conventional manometry and 24 h ambulatory pressure and pH recording. Our study indicates that dysphagia tends to decrease after surgery. Neither conventional nor ambulatory pressure recording revealed motor abnormalities that could be held responsible for the dysphagia. Therefore, the data do not support the concept that dysphagia is a major complication of Nissen fundoplication. 
Office dermatologic surgery and laser therapy. As the result of a dramatic increase in the incidence of skin cancer and the need for effective outpatient surgical treatment, dermatology is now a surgical as well as a medical specialty, and many procedures are commonly performed on an outpatient basis. Mohs micrographic surgery is used to remove basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas, and the resulting cure rates are high. Excisional biopsy can facilitate the early diagnosis of melanoma, while it is still in clinical stage I. Carbon dioxide lasers are commonly used to destroy epidermal lesions and yellow light lasers to destroy hemangiomas or other vascular malformations. Facial chemical peel (chemexfoliation) with trichloroacetic acid can improve the appearance of photoaged skin. 
Arterial T and Y grafts. Presented is the use of an autogenous arterial T graft for the salvage of a thrombosed arterial end-to-side anastomosis. The T-graft concept also offers the possibility of replacing a segment of artery in patients with arterial vessel wall defects, stenosis, obliteration, or disease during free latissimus dorsi or scapular flap transfer. The arterial T graft is harvested from the axilla and consists of segments of the subscapular, circumflex scapular, and thoracodorsal arteries. The large diameter of these vessels offers a good match with the arteries of the lower leg and forearm. The arterial Y graft consists of the same arteries and is used as an interpositional graft to revascularize two distal vessels from one proximal vessel. 
Operations for subaortic stenosis in univentricular hearts Optimal prevention and treatment of subaortic stenosis (SAS) in the univentricular heart with subaortic outlet chamber and high pulmonary blood flow remains controversial, especially when complicated by aortic arch obstruction. Herein we analyze our surgical results. Group 1 consisted of 11 infants (mean age, 10 days) with univentricular heart and SAS. Ten required repair of interrupted aortic arch (n = 7) or coarctation with hypoplastic arch (n = 7). Four patients had relief of SAS by either Damus-Kaye-Stansel connection (n = 2) or aortopulmonary window (n = 2), with three operative deaths and one late death. Six had one-stage arterial switch and atrial septectomy with arch repair (5/6) with one operative death and one late death. Two survivors have progressed to bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt, a third has had a Fontan operation, and a fourth awaits Fontan. In group 2, 11 children required operation for acquired SAS after pulmonary artery banding. Nine have progressed to Fontan operation with either staged (n = 3) or concurrent (n = 6) relief of SAS by Damus-Kaye-Stansel connection or subaortic resection. Fontan mortality was 11% (70% confidence limits, 2% to 32%). Group 3 consisted of 3 patients without pulmonary artery banding who had SAS diagnosed at Fontan evaluation. All 3 survived Fontan operation and relief of SAS by Damus-Kaye-Stansel connection or subaortic resection. Group 4 consisted of 1 patient with previous pulmonary artery banding (no SAS) who underwent Fontan operation but required Damus-Kaye-Stansel connection 30 months later for SAS. 
The risk of seizure recurrence following a first unprovoked seizure: a quantitative review. Knowledge of the recurrence risk following a first unprovoked seizure and the predictors of that risk are necessary for rational treatment decisions. Published estimates of recurrence risk range from 23% to 71%. In a meta-analysis of 16 reports, three methodologic factors explained much of the reported variation: (1) study inclusion criteria, ie, whether patients were enrolled at the time of their first seizure or if patients with prior seizures were included; (2) retrospective versus prospective ascertainment of patients; (3) the interval between the first seizure and the time at which risk was assessed. The average recurrence risk across the 16 studies was 51%. The risk was 40% and 52% in prospective and retrospective studies that employed first-seizure methods and 67% in non-first seizure studies. At or near 2 years following the first seizure, the recurrence risk was 36% and 47% in prospective and retrospective first-seizure studies. The distribution of prognostic factors was also important. Seizure etiology and the EEG were the strongest predictors of recurrence distinguishing between patient subgroups, with recurrence risks as low as 24% and as high as 65%. Partial seizures were associated with an increased recurrence risk, but not consistently. There is considerable agreement among studies concerning the recurrence risk following a first seizure, and much of the discrepancies among studies can be explained by differences in study methods and distributions of important prognostic factors. 
Does alcohol protect against the formation of gallstones? A demonstration of protopathic bias. Previous studies have found an inverse relation between alcohol use and clinical gallstone disease, suggestive of a protective effect of alcohol use. However, such an inverse relation may (at least partly) be explained by a reduction of alcohol use because of symptoms related to clinical gallstone disease (protopathic bias). We empirically evaluated the consequences of different designs for the avoidance of such bias in a series of case-control studies. A first study deliberately used a design that is commonly seen in the literature. Cases of clinical gallstone disease, referred to hospital because of symptoms, were contrasted with general population controls. The results suggested an inverse relation between alcohol use and gallstones. Next, three alternative case-control studies were performed using designs that safeguard against protopathic bias. In none of these studies was an association between alcohol use and gallstones found. This demonstrates the probable existence of protopathic bias in case-control studies on alcohol use and gallstones. It is argued that earlier non-experimental studies on this topic were susceptible to such bias. This has most likely led to an overestimation of the protective effect. 
The significance of portal vein thrombosis after distal splenorenal shunt. The aims of this study were to determine the incidence of portal vein thrombosis after the distal splenorenal shunt, to identify any predictive factors, and to assess the clinical significance of this complication. Preoperative and postoperative angiograms and clinical evaluation were reviewed in 124 patients who underwent distal splenorenal shunts. Total and partial portal vein thrombosis were seen on 13 (10.5%) and 22 (17.7%) postoperative angiograms, respectively. The only preoperative variable correlating with development of portal vein thrombosis was portal venous perfusion, which was significantly lower in patients with than in those without portal vein thrombosis. In six of 10 patients with postoperative pancreatitis, portal vein thrombosis developed. The frequency of early postoperative complications was significantly greater in patients with total portal vein thrombosis than in those with partial or no thrombosis. Long-term follow-up has shown no significant effects of portal vein thrombosis on late ascites, encephalopathy, or survival. 
Malignant and nonmalignant T cell lines from human T cell lymphotropic virus type I-negative patients with Sezary syndrome. The establishment of an in vitro model for cutaneous T cell lymphomas and Sezary syndrome has been difficult since T cells from individuals with these diseases do not proliferate in response to T cell mitogens. We found that conditioned media, collected from mitogen-activated PBMC from Sezary patients, contain an IL-2 receptor inducing factor. Despite their ostensible proliferative disorder, using a combination Sezary cell-conditioned media and rIL-2, we established IL-2 responsive, human T cell lymphotropic virus type I negative T cell lines from 23 patients, nine of which contain cells with the structural and/or genetic characteristics of neoplastic Sezary T cells. 
Penetrating atherosclerotic aortic ulcer with dissecting hematoma: control of bleeding with percutaneous embolization. A case is presented in which left subpleural hematoma and hemothorax resulted from a penetrating atherosclerotic aortic ulcer with an aortic pseudoaneurysm and intramedial hematoma. Percutaneous transfemoral embolization of the ulcer with use of coils and thrombin resulted in stabilization of the patient's hemodynamic status. The patient died 6 days later of pneumonia. In certain clinical situations, treatment of bleeding from penetrating aortic ulcers with percutaneous embolization may stabilize the patient's condition, allowing elective surgical intervention. 
Cysts of the neuraxis of endodermal origin. Five colloid cysts of the third ventricle were compared with two spinal enterogenous cysts to examine the hypothesis that these entities have the same origin from primitive endodermal tissue. All the lesions showed cuboidal and columnar epithelium with mucus containing goblet cells and cilia. Immunohistochemistry for cytokeratin, EMA and CEA was positive in all the colloid cyst and enterogenous cyst epithelium. S-100 was focally positive in three of the colloid and one of the enterogenous cysts while vimentin and GFAP were negative in both. The anatomical distribution of both colloid and enterogenous cysts is reviewed. An illustrative case of an identical cyst within the fourth ventricle is presented. This suggests that the similarities between colloid and enterogenous cysts and the presence of identical lesions along the neuroaxis indicate that these structures are derived from primitive foregut endoderm. 
Morphine-augmented cholescintigraphy: its efficacy in detecting acute cholecystitis Cholescintigrams were performed in 158 patients suspected of having acute cholecystitis after administration of 185 Mbq (5 mCi) of 99mTc-mebrofenin or disofenin. Morphine sulfate, 0.04 mg/kg was given intravenously if there was nonvisualization of the gallbladder at 40-60 min provided that radiotracer was seen within the small bowel. Acute cholecystitis was deemed present if there was nonvisualization of the gallbladder 30 min post-morphine administration; no cystic duct obstruction was present if the gallbladder was demonstrated pre- or post-morphine administration. A final diagnosis was estimated in 51 postoperative patients histologically, the remainder having their final diagnosis gleaned from their medical records. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of morphine-augmented cholescintigraphy in detecting acute cholecystitis was 94.6, 99.1, 97.2, and 98.3%, respectively. These findings indicate that morphine-augmented cholescintigraphy detects acute cholecystitis with as high a degree of accuracy as conventional hepatobiliary scintigraphy, yet requires only 1.5 hr to establish the diagnosis. 
Depression in spouses of chronic pain patients: the role of patient pain and anger, and marital satisfaction. Although several studies have shown that spouses of chronic pain patients may experience clinically significant depressive symptoms few studies have comprehensively examined the role of both patient and spouse-related factors in the development and maintenance of this emotional distress. Twenty-nine married male chronic benign low back pain patients and their spouses were recruited in order to examine the role of patient, spouse, and marital factors in spouse depressive symptomatology. The results indicated that 28% percent of the spouses in the sample reported significantly depressed mood. A 2-stage regression analysis was employed that revealed 3 significant predictors of spouse's depressed mood, namely patient's average pain; patient's reported levels of anger and hostility, and the spouse's level of marital satisfaction. These findings are discussed in terms of their implications for clinical interventions for pain patients and their families. 
Human interleukin-7 induces proliferation of neoplastic cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute leukemias. The biologic effects of interleukin-7 (IL-7) and the expression of specific IL-7 membrane receptors on isolated neoplastic cells from previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia as well as acute leukemias were investigated in vitro. Leukemic cells were incubated for up to 6 days with various concentrations of IL-7 (0.01 to 2,000 U/mL). Neoplastic cells of the T- or B-phenotype from chronic as well as from acute leukemias proliferated in a dose-dependent manner. Cells from acute myeloid leukemias also proliferated in response to IL-7. An optimal proliferative effect was achieved between 96 and 120 hours with 200 U/mL IL-7. Combinations of IL-7 with IL-2 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha showed an additive effect on [3H]TdR incorporation. IL-7 binding assays gave a value of approximately 33 to 180 high-affinity (kd approximately 20 pmol/L) binding sites/cell and approximately 241 to 3,280 low-affinity (kd approximately 600 pmol/L) binding sites/cell. Receptor expression correlated with the proliferation in response to IL-7. These data indicate that IL-7 can induce proliferation of relatively mature tumor cells, and that this effect is not restricted to the lymphoid lineage. 
Smell and taste disorders, a study of 750 patients from the University of Pennsylvania Smell and Taste Center. Smell and taste disorders are common in the general population, yet little is known about their nature or cause. This article describes a study of 750 patients with complaints of abnormal smell or taste perception from the University of Pennsylvania Smell and Taste Center, Philadelphia. Major findings suggest that: chemosensory dysfunction influences quality of life; complaints of taste loss usually reflect loss of smell function; upper respiratory infection, head trauma, and chronic nasal and paranasal sinus disease are the most common causes of the diminution of the sense of smell, with head trauma having the greatest loss; depression frequently accompanies chemosensory distortion; low body weight accompanies burning mouth syndrome; estrogens protect against loss of the sense of smell in postmenopausal women; zinc therapy may provide no benefit to patients with chemosensory dysfunction; and thyroid hormone function is associated with oral sensory distortion. The findings are discussed in relation to management of patients with chemosensory disturbances. 
Host factors and early therapeutic response in acute otitis media. To evaluate the relationship between eradication of bacterial infection and clinical improvement in children with otitis media, we reviewed the clinical outcome of bacterial otitis media in patients enrolled in double-blind trials of antibacterial therapy from 1979 to 1988. Cultures of middle ear exudates showed the distribution of bacterial pathogens to be similar to that observed in other geographic areas. Two hundred ninety-three patients had otitis media caused by bacterial pathogens and underwent repeat tympanocentesis after 3 to 6 days of therapy. Bacteriologic success was demonstrated in 253 patients (86%); 40 patients (14%) had bacteriologic failure. Children who had bacteriologic failure were younger than those with bacteriologic success (median age 10.6 vs 18.5 months; p = 0.001); 38% of patients who had bacteriologic failure were black, compared with 18% of patients with bacteriologic success (p = 0.007). Gender, history of frequent otitis media, and presence of bilateral otitis media were not risk factors for bacteriologic failure. Clinical success was demonstrated in 261 patients (89%); 32 patients (11%) had clinical failure. Agreement between clinical and bacteriologic response was 86% (95% confidence interval: 81.6% to 89.6%). Ninety-three percent (236/253) of subjects whose infection was eliminated had clinical resolution, whereas 37% (15/40) of those with bacteriologic failure had persisting symptoms or signs of clinical failure. We conclude that failure to eliminate bacteria from the middle ear is often associated with persistent signs and symptoms. Bacteriologic failure affects children less than 18 months of age almost exclusively. Bacteriologic and clinical failure are frequently discordant; mechanisms unrelated to the bacterial infection may explain some of the persisting clinical signs. 
Vascular trauma as a result of therapeutic procedures for the treatment of malignancy. Twenty-two iatrogenic vascular injuries caused by resection of tumors with local recurrences or adjuvant chemotherapy were treated over a 42-month period in 11 female and 8 male patients with cancer (58% had documented metastases). Sixteen of 22 vascular injuries were caused by intraarterial administration of chemotherapy (8 emboli; 8 direct catheter trauma), and six were caused by resection of tumors with local invasion. The injuries were extremity ischemia (15 extremities in 13 patients), pseudoaneurysm (4), expanding hematoma (3 injuries in 2 patients). Twenty-two surgical repairs included bypass of severely damaged arteries in five, embolectomy in five, interposition grafts in three, pseudoaneurysm resection and primary repair in three, primary repair of three vascular injuries, and one patch angioplasty. Leg amputation was required in two patients. Seventeen of 19 patients had successful vascular repairs with resolution of preoperative indications for vascular repair without intraoperative or postoperative deaths. Long term follow-up (mean, 17 months) showed no recurrence of vascular problems; however, two patients died of metastatic cancer at 6 and 24 weeks after vascular repair. This study supports an aggressive approach to the management of vascular injuries caused by therapeutic interventions for malignancy despite the presence of metastatic disease. 
Combined study to assess the role of calcium alginate swabs and ligation of the inferior tonsillar pole in the control of intra-operative blood loss during tonsillectomy. Bleeding is the major source of morbidity and mortality of tonsillectomy and most operative time is spent securing haemostasis. Calcium alginate reduces experimental wound blood loss. This study assessed the efficacy of alginate swabs during tonsillectomy and inferior tonsillar pole ligation in the control of blood loss during tonsillectomy. Ninety-nine tonsillectomy patients were randomized to gauze or alginate swab use. A haemoglobinometer measured blood losses collected by suction during dissection and by swab until haemostasis was secured. Operative time, complications and healing were also assessed. Mean total blood losses and operative times were similar for the two groups. Swab blood loss was significantly lower for surgeons who ligated the lower tonsillar pole, compared with surgeons who used a snare. This finding was independent of swab type. Independent assessment showed no difference in the healing rate. Alginate swabs offer no advantage over gauze in terms of blood loss, operative time or complications of tonsillectomy. The results show that routine lower pole ligation significantly reduces post-dissection blood loss. We suggest that this technique should be more widely adopted. 
Clinical issues relating to the diagnosis of mild dementia in a British community survey. Many epidemiologists base their diagnoses of dementia on scores on brief cognitive tests, but the border between normal aging and mild dementia is so poorly understood that simple demarcations cannot adequately encapsulate the wealth of clinical material that needs to be taken into account in assigning diagnostic labels. Data from a British study of the prevalence and natural history of dementia, in which diagnoses of dementia were made by clinicians using a new, standardized interview schedule, are presented to demonstrate the effects of physical disability, psychiatric illness, and other factors on memory impairment and performance in everyday life. Our purpose is not to insist that clinicians are always correct but rather to highlight the complexities involved and the need for investigators to be more open about the way in which they distinguish between physical, psychiatric, and cognitive infirmities. 
Cause-specific mortality among physicians with differing life-styles. We compare the mortality experience of medical school graduates from Loma Linda University (LLU [n = 4342]) and the University of Southern California (USC [n = 2832]) with each other and with that of contemporaneous, white, American men. When compared with US white men from the general population, both USC and LLU graduates had below expected deaths for all causes (USC, standardized mortality ratio [SMR] = 76; LLU, SMR = 56), although deaths due to cerebrovascular disease, airplane accidents, and suicides were elevated for USC (SMRs = 132, 360, and 218, respectively). The LLU graduates had a risk similar to that of the USC graduates for fatal cancer, with a mortality ratio (MR) of 0.92 (95% confidence interval, 0.67 to 1.26); but half the risk of fatal atherosclerotic disease, with MRs of 0.58 (0.46 to 0.73) and 0.66 (0.43 to 0.99) for coronary and cerebrovascular disease, respectively; and three times the risk of fatal airplane accidents. The overall mortality rate of LLU physicians was only 75% as high as that of the USC physicians and only 56% as high as that of the US male population at large. We attribute this reduced mortality mainly to the low cardiovascular mortality rates, which may be accounted for by the life-style of the substantial proportion of Seventh-day Adventists among LLU graduates. 
Inadequacy of saphenous vein grafts for cross-femoral venous bypass. A mathematic model of unilateral iliac vein obstruction was used to establish the theoretic basis for selecting saphenous vein or a larger diameter prosthetic cross-femoral venous bypass graft for relief of obstructive venous hypertension. Common femoral vein resting and postexercise peak flows, and common femoral vein and saphenous vein diameters were measured in 18 healthy individuals and used to estimate the pressure gradient (dP) across 20 cm long cross-femoral venous bypass grafts of saphenous vein or 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 mm prosthetic conduits, in the presence of a transpelvic venous collateral network of varied cross section. The upper limits of normal for the gradients in our model (dPstd) were set at 4 mm Hg for resting flows and 6 mm Hg after exercise. Mean saphenous vein diameter was 4.3 +/- 0.22 mm, which was 36.5% +/- 1.73% of common femoral vein diameter. When the saphenous veins of two thirds of the individuals in our study were used as theoretic cross-femoral venous bypass conduits, greater than 80% of postobstruction peak cross-femoral venous bypass graft flow had to be carried by collaterals to maintain a gradient less than or equal to dPstd. We demonstrated that 4.5 to 6.0 mm diameter saphenous cross-femoral venous bypass grafts would be hemodynamically efficacious in relieving venous hypertension, but only when implanted in parallel with an existing venous collateral network that limited the preoperative dP to 4.5 to 7.5 mm Hg at resting flows and 7.0 to 11.5 mm Hg after exercise; only 44% of saphenous veins were adequate for cross-femoral venous bypass grafts by these criteria. 
Value of a programmed investigation unit: an audit study. A programmed investigation unit (PIU) was set up in a regional neuroscience centre. Its effects were assessed by measuring the savings associated with one particular investigation, myelography, which accounted for 50% of admissions to the PIU. Substantial savings appear to be possible, but accounting techniques allow wide variations in the estimated amounts. These benefits have to be measured against improvements which occurred simultaneously on the other wards. 
Comprehensive primary health care antiepileptic drug treatment programme in rural and semi-urban Kenya. ICBERG (International Community-based Epilepsy Research Group) A programme of antiepileptic treatment in a rural and semi-urban region in Kenya was assessed. Patients with generalised tonic-clonic seizures were treated according to one of two simple drug protocols. Health workers screened cases reported by key informants in the community. From the 529 patients identified by health workers as having active seizures 302 patients aged 6-65 years were recruited by a psychiatrist for therapy with carbamazepine or phenobarbitone. Treatment was supervised largely by primary health workers, and the programme was monitored by a research team, which assessed the effectiveness of treatment. Of the 249 patients who completed the study, 53% became seizure-free in the second 6 months of therapy, and another 26% had substantially (50% or more reduction) fewer seizures than in the 6 months before therapy. The similarity of these findings to those obtained in newly diagnosed patients in the developed world, the low drop-out rate, the low rate of withdrawal due to adverse effects, and the acceptable compliance with therapy indicate that health workers can monitor therapy adequately. Most patients had had several years of delay before starting therapy for their epilepsy, yet they responded well--a finding that does not support the suggestion that the disorder becomes intractable if not treated early. 
Maffucci's syndrome associated with intracranial enchondroma and aneurysm: case report. Maffucci's syndrome is a rare, congenital mesodermal dysplasia combined with dyschondroplasia and hemangiomatosis. Enchondromatous involvement of the skull bones is rare in this syndrome. A rare case of Maffucci's syndrome associated with enchondroma at the skull base, left internal carotid artery aneurysm, and goiter is reported. Two other previously reported cases of Maffucci's syndrome with associated aneurysms and the present case suggest that Maffucci's syndrome may be associated with aneurysm. 
Impact of local tumor relapse on patient survival after cobalt 60 plaque radiotherapy. The authors investigated the impact of local intraocular tumor relapse on survival in a matched-group comparison study of patients with primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma managed with cobalt 60 plaque radiotherapy. Sixty-two patients with local relapse were matched with an equal number of relapse-free patients in terms of known clinical prognostic factors for both melanoma-specific mortality (largest linear tumor dimension, location of anterior tumor margin, age) and local tumor relapse (location of posterior tumor margin). The follow-up of every relapse-free patient equaled or exceeded the interval to relapse for each matched patient with local relapse. The estimated 5-year survival (Kaplan-Meier) in the relapse-free patients was 87% (standard error = 4%), while that in the local relapse group was 58% (standard error = 6%). This difference is statistically significant (P less than 0.0001, log rank test). These results support the hypothesis that local tumor relapse after cobalt 60 plaque radiotherapy is an important post-treatment clinical indicator of the tumor's greater malignant potential and the patient's increased risk of melanoma-specific mortality. 
The results of surgical repair of acute tears of the posterior cruciate ligament. In 20 patients, the torn posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) was repaired without reinforcement within two weeks after injury. Fourteen patients had a midsubstance tear, and in six the ligament was avulsed from the femur without bone. There were 11 isolated and nine combined injuries. The follow-up period ranged from two to 10.5 years. Postoperatively, all had posterior instability graded from 1+ to 2+. Nevertheless, the subjective results were good in 15 patients, fair in five, and poor in none. Posterior instability did not produce significant functional impairment of the knee for a considerable number of years. Suture alone cannot restore the PCL and is not strong enough to withstand the applied forces on the knee. 
Ratio of polyclonal-monoclonal prostate-specific antigen levels. Discrimination of nodal status in prostate tumors that produce low marker levels. The preliminary data we present in this report suggest that the ratio of polyclonal-monoclonal serum prostate-specific antigen levels may add clinically useful information to that obtained using serum prostate-specific antigen levels alone. We hypothesize that the diversity of prostate-specific antigen ratios observed in our data reflects a diversity in the antigenic and structural attributes of prostate-specific antigen molecules found in the sera of patients with prostate cancer. Further, this heterogeneity of molecules is a reflection of the diverse and altered metabolic state of human prostate cancer and appears to be related to biologic behavior in individual patients. 
Effects of hydralazine on cardiac performance in infants receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. To determine the effects of afterload reduction on cardiac performance during partial cardiopulmonary bypass, we administered hydralazine to infants who were either normotensive (n = 11) or hypertensive (n = 12) 1 hour after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) was begun. Load-dependent and load-independent measures of cardiac performance and indexes of cerebral blood flow were measured. Infants in both groups had similar weight, heart rate, blood pressure, and inotropic support before ECMO. Shortening fraction was normal in both groups before ECMO (47 +/- 11% vs 49 +/- 10%; p greater than or equal to 0.05), decreased during ECMO (31 +/- 18% vs 39 +/- 12%; p greater than or equal to 0.05), and did not change after administration of hydralazine (31 +/- 12% vs 37 +/- 8%; p greater than or equal to 0.05). Cardiac output was normal in both groups before ECMO (176 +/- 71 vs 157 +/- 72 ml/kg per minute; p greater than or equal to 0.05), decreased during ECMO (120 +/- 80 vs 105 +/- 64 ml/kg per minute; p greater than or equal to 0.05), and did not change after hydralazine administration. Velocity of circumferential fiber shortening, an index of contractility (circumference per second), was normal in both groups before ECMO (1.96 +/- 0.57 vs 1.90 +/- 0.43 circ/sec; p greater than or equal to 0.05), decreased during ECMO (1.18 +/- 0.83 vs 1.56 +/- 0.58 circ/sec; p greater than or equal to 0.05), and did not change after hydralazine administration. The relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress was similar in both groups before ECMO, during ECMO, and after hydralazine administration. The cerebral blood flow resistance index was similar in both groups before ECMO (0.70 +/- 0.16 vs 0.70 +/- 0.20; p greater than or equal to 0.05), decreased during ECMO (0.45 +/- 0.13 vs 0.43 +/- 0.09; p greater than or equal to 0.05), and did not change after administration of hydralazine. We conclude that hydralazine does not improve cardiac performance during ECMO. 
Optimization of replacement of the ureter by ileum. Fifty patients for whom an ileal replacement of the ureter was indicated were prospectively randomized among 2 treatment groups according to the surgical technique used. In group 1 the standard operation was performed. In group 2 a tailored and valved (modified) ileal ureter was used. Patients were followed every 3 to 6 months for 12 to 28 months. Kidney functions were evaluated by 99m technetium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid scans and by determination of the 24-hour creatinine clearance. Urine cultures were obtained, and urine viscosity and flow rates were measured. A urographic study, including ascending cystography, was done every 6 months. Results indicated that the modified operation is functionally superior to the standard procedure. It provides efficient unidirectional flow of urine from the kidney to the bladder with less mucus secretion. This was ultimately reflected as better renal function when it was quantitated by renography and/or chemical clearance. 
Laser trabeculoplasty. Over a decade, laser trabeculoplasty has evolved from being a novel new treatment to one that is a commonly accepted intervention in the management of open-angle glaucoma. Despite its widespread use, however, there are still many unanswered questions about laser trabeculoplasty, including its mechanism of action and the ideal treatment parameters. In this review, we will discuss the history of the technique, the clinical experience, and some of the experimental studies that have been conducted to answer the questions regarding its mechanism of action. 
Pathophysiological role of augmented atrial natriuretic polypeptide gene expression in DOCA-salt hypertension. Effects of atrial natriuretic polypeptide monoclonal antibody. To elucidate the pathophysiological significance of endogenous atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) in hypertension, we investigated the biosynthesis and secretion of ANP in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats and also examined the effect of passive immunization with monoclonal antibody raised against alpha-rat ANP on the development of hypertension in DOCA-salt rats. The plasma ANP level in DOCA-salt rats was significantly elevated in comparison to control rats. While the atrial ANP concentration in DOCA-salt rats was not significantly altered, the atrial level of ANPmRNA in DOCA-salt rats was two-fold higher than that in control rats. These results suggest the augmented biosynthesis of ANP in the atrium and the oversecretion of ANP from the heart in DOCA-salt rats. The levels of ANP and ANPmRNA in the ventricle of DOCA-salt rats exhibited significant increases, compared with those in control rats, suggesting the induction of ANP gene expression in the ventricle of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats under pre/after overload. Weekly intravenous administrations of monoclonal antibody with high affinity for alpha-rat ANP significantly augmented the rise in blood pressure of DOCA-salt rats. These results support the hypothesis that the augmented secretion of ANP is one of the defensive mechanisms to counteract high arterial pressure in this model of hypertension. 
A life-threatening sexually transmitted Haemophilus influenzae in septic abortion: a case report. Haemophilus influenzae infections of the genitourinary tract are rare. A case of a life-threatening Haemophilus influenzae bacteremia associated with a septic abortion is presented. Sexual transmission of bacteria after orogenital contact is proposed as a possible source of this uncommon infection. 
Poikilothermia in man: pathophysiology and clinical implications. Poikilothermia, the inability to maintain a constant core temperature independent of ambient temperature, markedly influences both the mental and physical function of affected patients; furthermore, prolonged hypothermia can induce numerous complications. To establish the pathophysiology of thermoregulation underlying poikilothermia in man, we compared 4 women with acquired poikilothermia, with 9 female control subjects. The activity of the main thermoregulatory effector mechanisms was assessed in a thermoneutral environment, and during subsequent cold stress and heat exposure. At thermoneutrality the patients had a significantly lower rectal temperature and resting metabolic rate compared with the controls; no patient showed peripheral vasoconstriction or shivering. Cooling revealed markedly reduced peripheral vasoconstriction in 3 patients and failure of the metabolic response in 2 patients; unlike controls, no patient exhibited shivering. Heat challenge revealed severely reduced capacity for heat dissipation in all patients. We conclude that in patients with poikilothermia, the mechanisms for both heat conservation and heat dissipation are seriously attenuated. Careful monitoring of the core temperature and adequate measures to maintain normothermia are of great importance in patients with poikilothermia in order to provide adequate treatment, improve the quality of life, and prevent serious complications. 
Alternating sequential intracarotid BCNU and cisplatin in recurrent malignant glioma. The authors entered 43 patients with recurrent malignant glioma in a trial of alternating sequential intracarotid BCNU and cisplatin. Protocol design was alternating courses of BCNU (2 doses, 300 to 400 mg each) and cisplatin (2 doses, 150 to 200 mg each) each at 4-week to 6-week intervals. Eight of 40 patients (20%) evaluable after the first course of BCNU showed partial or minor response. Only 18 patients were evaluable after the first course of cisplatin, and 5 were evaluable after the second course of BCNU. Median survival was 9 months (range, 2 weeks to 6 years). Cerebral or ocular toxicity unique to this method of chemotherapy administration and failure to show clinical improvement were the most common reasons for removal from study. Because of the high attrition rate, the authors were unable to determine a meaningful response to alternating sequential BCNU and cisplatin or to test the clinical degree of cross-resistance to these agents in human malignant glioma. 
Regulation of prolactin gene expression in a DMBA-estrogen-induced transplantable rat pituitary tumor. A new transplantable rat pituitary tumor was induced in F344 female rats with dimethylbenz(a)anthracene and estrogen (MtT/F-DMBA) and studied for 20 serial transplant generations. The tumor grew without estrogen supplements in female rats by the second transplant generation. Sensitivity to estrogens, as indicated by a prolonged latency period for tumor development, was seen at the 20th, but not the 5th transplant generation. MtT/F-DMBA tumors expressed prolactin (PRL), growth hormone (GH), and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) mRNAs. A decrease in the percentage of cells expressing PRL mRNA, PRL protein, and in the number of secretory granules per cell occurred with serial transplantation. S-100 protein-positive folliculostellate cells were present in the hyperplastic pituitary but not in the transplantable tumors. Estrogen treatment at the 20th transplant generation prolonged the tumor latency period, increased the number of cells expressing PRL mRNA greater than 5-fold by in situ hybridization analysis (14 +/- 2% versus 77 +/- 5%), increased PRL secretion (132 +/- 40 ng/ml versus 3762 +/- 890 ng/ml), and increased the number of cytoplasmic secretory granules per cell. These results indicate that hyperplastic pituitary and true pituitary neoplasms differ in their ability to grow readily after transplantation. The presence of S-100 protein-positive folliculostellate cells, which are present in hyperplastic but not in neoplastic pituitary tissues, may serve as a morphologic marker to separate hyperplastic and neoplastic rat pituitary tissues. Transplantable tumors remained responsive to estrogen with expression of a more differentiated phenotype, including an increased number of cells expressing PRL mRNA and increased numbers of PRL secretory granules. 
Extracranial vertebral artery dissection following tonic clonic seizure. A 34 year old woman developed cerebral infarction, following a tonic-clonic seizure. A vertebral artery dissection was demonstrated and may have been caused by arterial trauma during the seizure. This cause of morbidity following convulsive seizures may have been overlooked in the past and needs to be recognised in view of the potential benefits of anticoagulation. 
Endorectal sonography in the evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. Endorectal sonography initially was developed for evaluation of the prostate and now has been adapted for evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. We used endorectal sonography to evaluate a spectrum of diseases, including primary and recurrent rectal carcinoma, metastases, villous adenoma, leiomyosarcoma, endometriosis, sacrococcygeal teratoma, chordoma, retroperitoneal cystic hamartoma, pelvic lipomatosis, diverticulitis, and perirectal abscess. The technique has been useful in localization of perirectal abscesses and in sonographically guided biopsy of perirectal masses. Knowledge of normal sonographic anatomy of the rectum is essential in the evaluation of rectal and perirectal disease. In this essay, we describe the technique of endorectal sonography and illustrate the sonographic findings in a variety of diseases. 
Intraocular tolerance to silicone oils of different specific gravities. An experimental study. Different methylphenylsilicone (MPS) and fluorosilicone (FS) oils having a higher specific gravity than water were investigated as vitreous replacements. Their intraocular tolerance in vitrectomized aphakic rabbit eyes was evaluated for periods of up to 4 months and compared to that of regular polydimethylsilicone oil (PDMS). Weakly fluorinated FS and weakly phenylated MPS showed a presumably toxic effect on the retina. As compared to highly fluorinated FS, highly phenylated MPS showed better intraocular tolerance; however, inflammatory reaction was slightly more extensive than in eyes filled with PDMS. 
Acute-phase response of human hepatocytes: regulation of acute-phase protein synthesis by interleukin-6. Human hepatocytes in primary culture were used as a model system to investigate the mechanism(s) involved in the induction of the acute-phase response in human liver. Hepatocytes were incubated with increasing amounts of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta, recombinant interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Synthesis of C-reactive protein was studied at the mRNA and protein levels. Only recombinant interleukin-6 was capable of inducing C-reactive protein-mRNA and C-reactive protein-protein synthesis. Also, fibrinogen and alpha-1-antitrypsin synthesis measured by immunoprecipitation with specific antisera increased in a dose-dependent, time-dependent manner, whereas albumin synthesis decreased to about 50% of controls. Maximal effects were observed at 100 to 300 units of recombinant interleukin-6/ml culture medium after 20 hr of incubation. Although the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone slightly modulated the effect of recombinant interleukin-6, it was not an absolute requirement for the induction of acute-phase protein synthesis in human hepatocytes. In pulse-chase experiments it was shown that the time course of the disappearance of the acute-phase proteins from the cells and their appearance in the medium is not influenced by recombinant interleukin-6. This finding suggests that recombinant interleukin-6 exerts its regulatory effect on acute-phase protein synthesis at the pretranslational level. 
Long-term diet modification and platelet activity. Platelet activity was assessed in a sub-sample of 56 participants in the MRC Diet and Reinfarction Trial (DART). Men whose diets contained a high ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids (a P:S ratio of greater than 0.5) showed reduced secondary platelet aggregation to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) in platelet-rich plasma (PRP), and diminished platelet aggregation to ADP in whole blood. A trend of reduced secondary platelet aggregation to ADP with increasing dietary eicosapentaenoic acid was noted, but this was not statistically significant. The results of this study and the MRC Diet and Reinfarction Trial suggest a mediatory role for platelet activity in the relationship between diet and ischaemic heart disease. 
Elective cholecystectomy and carcinoma of the gallbladder. The incidence of carcinoma of the gallbladder has been reputed to be approximately 1.5 per cent among those who undergo surgery for chronic cholecystitis. The incidence at Cabrini Medical Center coincides rather well with that from other studies but has shown a marked decline, 21.5 per cent, within recent years. A report from the American Cancer Society projects an even greater decline to 0.65 per cent in the incidence of this almost incurable disease within the next 1-2 years. The decrease in the incidence of cancer of the gallbladder is attributed to the great increase in the performance of elective cholecystectomy for chronic cholecystitis among people 50 years of age or younger, before they have reached the age when carcinoma of the gallbladder is most prevalent. Early surgery is advocated not only as an effective and safe form of therapy but also as a valuable preventive measure. 
Dichotic asymmetries in aging and alcoholic subjects. It has been suggested that certain cognitive changes found both with aging and with chronic alcoholism are accompanied by alterations in hemispheric functional asymmetries. One prevalent view states that these well-delineated cognitive changes are directly related to a selective disruption of right hemisphere function. The present study tested this hypothesis using dichotic listening measures of functional asymmetry. Both alcoholics and older nonalcoholics evidenced patterns of cognitive preservation and impairment similar to those seen in patients with known right hemisphere dysfunction. Nevertheless, dichotic listening findings did not reveal any selective effect on the right hemisphere, as previously proposed. The dichotic studies supported the view that both hemispheres are affected by aging and alcoholism. Patients with right hemisphere lesions demonstrated characteristic and predictable changes in dichotic asymmetries, illustrating the reliability of the dichotic measures as indices of hemispheric function. 
Ischemic colitis associated with dextroamphetamine use. Ischemic colitis can be caused by a variety of medications including a number of sympathomimetic agents. We report the case of a 47-year-old narcoleptic man who had abdominal pain and rectal bleeding. The clinical, radiographic, and histologic findings supported the diagnosis of ischemic colitis associated with oral dextroamphetamine use. 
Mortality in a cohort of long-term users of hormone replacement therapy: an updated analysis. OBJECTIVE--To reexamine the mortality experience of a cohort of long-term users of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in comparison with that reported previously for the same cohort of women, paying particular attention to cardiovascular mortality, deaths from breast and endometrial cancer, and deaths attributed to suicide or suspected suicide. DESIGN--Longitudinal cohort of 4544 long-term users of HRT amongst whom mortality is being monitored prospectively in comparison with expected rates in the female population of England and Wales (taking account of age and calendar period). SUBJECTS--4544 women, all of whom were recruited from specialist menopause clinics around Britain and had taken at least one year's continuous HRT at the time of recruitment to the study. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--All cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, deaths from female cancers, deaths attributed to suicide or suspected suicide. RESULTS--Overall mortality (based on 236 deaths over the entire study period from recruitment to December 1988) remained significantly lower than expected on the basis of national rates (relative risk (RR) 0.56, 95% confidence limits (CL) 0.47-0.66). When specific causes were considered, the only mortality ratios greater than unity were for injury, poisoning and violence (1.54, 95% CL 1.02-2.06), and for suicide and suspected suicide ('suicide') (2.40, 95% CL 1.68-3.11). Comparison of the ratios for the 112 additional deaths with those obtained in our previous analysis revealed that one of the few ratios to show any increase was that for breast cancer mortality. This rose from a significant deficit of 0.55 (95% CL 0.28-0.96) in the earlier period to 1.00 (95% CL 0.55-1.45) in the later period. There was also a suggestion of an increase in breast cancer risk with increasing duration since first use of HRT. Most of the other cause-specific ratios were very similar over the two periods. The ratio of death from all circulatory diseases was notably lower in the later analysis (RR 0.37, 95% CL 0.15-0.58) than in the earlier analysis (0.51, 95% CL 0.36-0.69), as were all of the subcategories of cardiovascular death. The mortality ratio for cancer of the ovary and uterine adnexa fell from 1.12 in the previous analysis to 0.63 (95% CL 0-1.41). The mortality ratio for 'suicide' also decreased, but was only slightly lower in the later period. As before, however, there was evidence of a relatively high prevalence of prior psychiatric problems amongst the recent 'suicide' deaths, suggesting that the excess of deaths from 'suicide' may be a manifestation of selection. CONCLUSION--These data are consistent with a beneficial effect of HRT on cardiovascular diseases, although updated information comparing progestogen-opposed and -unopposed treatment is not available. The increase in breast cancer mortality contrasts with the pattern for all other specific causes examined; taken together with the suggestion of an increase in breast cancer mortality with increasing interval since first exposure to HRT, this finding is somewhat worrying. 
Arthrofibrosis in acute anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. The effect of timing of reconstruction and rehabilitation. Arthrofibrosis is a potential complication of acute ACL reconstruction. Arthrofibrosis prevents the patient from regaining full range of motion, particularly the terminal 5 degrees of full extension, postoperatively. We did a retrospective study of 169 acute ACL reconstructions in a population of young athletes (average age, 22 years). We sought to determine the optimal time to perform acute ACL reconstruction with respect to arthrofibrosis and the effects of an accelerated versus conventional rehabilitation program. The short-term results were evaluated by range of motion measurements and 13 week Cybex scores. Patients whose ligaments were reconstructed within the 1st week after injury (Group I) had a statistically significant (P less than 0.05) increased incidence of arthrofibrosis (limited extension, scar tissue) over patients who had ACL reconstruction delayed 21 days or more (Group III). At 13 weeks after the reconstruction procedure, Group III patients scored an average of 70% (compared to 51% for Group I, P less than 0.05) on the Cybex evaluation. They also showed a trend toward more flexion of the knee as well as near full extension. Patients who had an ACL reconstruction between 8 and 21 days after injury (Group II) had a similar incidence of arthrofibrosis as Group I when they followed a conventional rehabilitation program postoperatively. However, only a small number of cases (approximately 4%) of Group II patients who followed an accelerated postoperative rehabilitation program had any arthrofibrosis--an observation we also made in the Group III patients. 
Mortality in patients treated with flecainide and encainide for supraventricular arrhythmias. In a recent clinical trial, the class Ic antiarrhythmic drugs encainide and flecainide were found to be associated with an increased mortality risk in patients with new myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias. The purpose of this study was to assess whether an increased mortality risk also accompanied the use of these drugs to treat patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. Data were obtained from the respective pharmaceutical sponsors on the mortality observed with each drug in United States and foreign protocols enrolling patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. Mortality in the encainide population (343 patients) and the flecainide population (236 patients) was compared with that in a research arrhythmia clinic, the Duke population (154 patients). Nine deaths occurred in the combined encainide-flecainide population and 10 deaths occurred in the Duke population; the follow-up periods averaged 488 days and 1,285 days, respectively. The 6-year survival functions of these 2 populations, estimated by the Kaplan-Meier technique, did not differ significantly (p = 0.62). The hazard ratio for the combined encainide-flecainide population relative to the Duke population was estimated to be 0.6 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.2, 1.7. These descriptive comparisons did not demonstrate any excess mortality when flecainide and encainide were used in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. 
Malignant colorectal strictures in Crohn's disease. One hundred thirty-two of 980 patients (13.5%) with Crohn's disease (CD) involving the colon, admitted to The Mount Sinai Hospital between 1959 and 1985, developed 175 colonic strictures. Thirty-three patients developed more than one stricture. The frequency was twice as great in colitis (19%) as in ileocolitis (11%). Ten malignant strictures were identified in nine patients (three ileocolitis, six colitis). One of these patients had three strictures (two malignant, and one benign), and two had two strictures (one malignant and one benign). The frequency of cancer in patients with stricture (6.8%) was higher than in those without stricture (0.7%, six of 848, p less than 0.001). There were no differences in clinical symptoms between patients with benign and malignant stricture. Seventeen of 165 benign strictures (10.3%) were long, extending over more than one anatomical segment of colon, but all 10 malignant strictures were short (p less than 0.0001). The age at the diagnosis of stricture was higher in the nine patients with malignant stricture than in the 123 patients with benign stricture (mean age 57.2 vs. 41.4 yr, respectively, p less than 0.01). The proportion of strictures that were malignant increased with duration of disease from 3.3% with less than 20 yr of CD, to 11% with CD of 20 yr or more. All nine patients with malignant stricture were treated surgically, and four of the nine died of colon cancer during a mean follow-up of 4.3 yr. Prognosis was worse in six other nonstricture cancers in this series, with five colon cancer deaths during mean follow-up of 1.6 yr. In view of the high rate of malignancy, 6.8% in this series, colonoscopy with biopsy is essential in Crohn's disease patients with colonic strictures, and surgery must be considered when a stricture cannot be fully assessed during colonoscopy. 
AAEM case report #3: myasthenia gravis. Reported here are the electrodiagnostic findings in a patient with myasthenia gravis who had dysarthria, dysphagia, and dyspnea. The use of repetitive nerve stimulation and single fiber electromyography studies for the evaluation of patients suspected of myasthenia gravis is reviewed. 
Intraspinal neurothekeoma (nerve sheath myxoma). A report of two cases. Neurothekeomas (nerve sheath myxomas) are rare benign cutaneous tumors. The authors describe two spinal intradural cases that show histologic, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic features identical to their cutaneous counterparts. The authors' findings suggest histogenesis from Schwann's cells or undifferentiated nerve sheath precursor cells. Neurothekeomas in unusual locations should be differentiated from myxoid neurofibromas, perineuriomas, and soft tissue myxomas. 
Secondary systemic amyloidosis: response and survival in 64 patients. From 1956 through 1989, 38 men and 26 women were seen at the Mayo Clinic with biopsy-proven AA. The underlying disorder was rheumatic disease in 42, infectious disease in 11, inflammatory bowel disease in 6, and other causes in 5. All patients were symptomatic at the time of diagnosis. Fifty-eight of the 64 patients had proteinuria or renal insufficiency. Fourteen also had significant symptoms of gastrointestinal amyloid, and 6 had amyloid goiter. None of the patients had symptomatic cardiac involvement, and only 3 had palpable hepatomegaly. Renal, gastric, rectal, fat, and marrow biopsies were positive for amyloid in 100%, 94%, 82%, 58%, and 46% of tested patients, respectively. The median survival of the entire group was 24.5 months. Thirty-five of the 47 deceased patients died as a direct result of their amyloidosis, primarily from complications of renal failure. Nine were successfully treated and had regression of the disease. Two with bronchiectasis responded to long-term cyclic antibiotic therapy, as did 1 patient with osteomyelitis. One patient with inflammatory bowel disease responded to surgical resection, and 1 with familial Mediterranean fever responded to colchicine. Four patients with rheumatic disease were treated with cyclophosphamide (in 2) and methotrexate (in 2), with complete resolution of their renal disease. All 9 successfully treated patients are alive, with a median follow-up of 58 months. Statistical analysis revealed that creatinine values greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl (P less than 0.003) and a serum albumin value less than 2.5 g/dl (P less than 0.02) were associated with a poorer survival. The single strongest variable associated with poor survival was a serum creatinine level greater than 2 mg/dl at presentation, with a median survival of 11.2 months compared to patients with a creatinine level less than 2.0 mg/dl, with a median survival of 56.9 months. 
Disruption of human circadian and cognitive regulation following a discrete hypothalamic lesion: a case study. We report a patient with rostral hypothalamic damage that significantly disrupted temporal patterning of the sleep-wake cycle, body temperature, and cognitive and behavioral functioning. The findings suggest that the suprachiasmatic region of the hypothalamus is important for the circadian control of human behavior, and that circadian organization may be essential for normal cognitive functioning. 
Incremental prognostic value of exercise hemodynamic variables in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to coronary artery disease or to dilated cardiomyopathy. To determine the prognostic value of hemodynamic variables at rest and during exercise, 49 patients with chronic congestive heart failure undergoing hemodynamic evaluation at rest and during symptom-limited exercise were followed for 1 year. One-year mortality rate was 33%. On univariate analysis, nonsurvivors differed significantly from survivors in pulmonary arterial wedge pressure at rest (22 +/- 10 vs 15 +/- 10 mm Hg; p = 0.01) and during exercise (32 +/- 9 vs 24 +/- 9 mm Hg; p = 0.003), stroke work index at rest (19 +/- 6 vs 25 +/- 9 g-m/m2; p = 0.03) and during exercise (20 +/- 7 vs 32 +/- 14 g-m/m2; p = 0.001) and exercise-induced increment in stroke work index (0.5 +/- 0.4 vs 7 +/- 8 g-m/m2; p = 0.004), but not with respect to left ventricular ejection fraction, exercise duration, peak oxygen consumption or peak left ventricular hydraulic power. Patients with a peak exercise stroke work index less than 20 g-m/m2 had a 66% mortality rate compared with a mortality rate of 13% in patients with a peak exercise stroke work index greater than 20 g-m/m2 (p = 0.0001). Multiple logistic regression analysis identified pulmonary arterial wedge pressure at rest and peak exercise stroke work index as the only independent predictors of mortality. A receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis revealed that peak exercise stroke work index provided significant incremental prognostic information over the resting hemodynamic variables. 
Significance of silent myocardial ischemia during exercise testing in patients with diabetes mellitus: a report from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) Registry. To evaluate the significance of ischemic ST depression without anginal chest pain during exercise testing among patients with diabetes mellitus, the data on 45 such patients from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study registry were analyzed. These patients (group 1, silent ischemia) were compared with 37 diabetic patients with both ischemic ST depression and chest pain (group 2, symptomatic ischemia), with 31 diabetic patients without ischemic ST depression or chest pain (group 3, no ischemia), and with 429 patients without diabetes who had silent ischemia during exercise testing. All patients had documented coronary artery disease (CAD) (greater than 70% diameter narrowing). The 6-year survival among patients with silent ischemia was worse in diabetic than nondiabetic patients (59 vs 82%, respectively, p less than 0.001). By contrast, the 6-year survival among patients without ischemia was similar among diabetic and nondiabetic patients (93 vs 85%, respectively, p = 0.476). Among diabetic patients, survival at 6 years with medical treatment was 59% for group 1, 66% for group 2 and 93% for group 3 (p = 0.008). Survival among subsets of patients with diabetes and silent ischemia (group 1) based on the extent of CAD and left ventricular function ranged from 100 to 32% (p = 0.093). The survival of the 45 patients with diabetes mellitus and silent ischemia (group 1) treated medically was compared with that of 28 patients receiving coronary artery graft bypass surgery. 
Histopathologic features of the L-tryptophan-related eosinophilia-myalgia (fasciitis) syndrome Study of 18 biopsy specimens in 11 patients with L-tryptophan-related eosinophiliamyalgia (fasciitis) syndrome showed hyaline sclerodermoid changes. Dermal scleroderma was found in eight of nine punch biopsy specimens and eight of nine excisional biopsy specimens. Fascial scleroderma was found in eight excisional biopsy specimens. One specimen obtained by excision had no fascia present. Eleven biopsy specimens showed edema of the dermis, and 13 showed dilated lymphatic structures; thus, the clinical picture of edematous sclerosis was confirmed. Mucinous fasciitis was present in five excisional biopsy specimens, in conjunction with a large number of macrophages in four. Dermal mucinosis was present in 11 biopsy specimens. Lymphocytic and macrophage inflammation was minimal in 14 biopsy specimens and pronounced in only 4. Plasma cells were present in eight cases. Eosinophils were present in substantial numbers in three biopsy specimens and only occasionally in four. Eosinophilic spongiosis was observed in one patient. Lymphocytic inflammation was noted around a single muscle spindle and around large nerve trunks in three patients. No relationship was established between these pathologic features and the duration or dose of tryptophan, prednisone treatment, or duration of symptoms. Pathologic features of the L-tryptophan syndrome consist of hyaline sclerodermoid collagen in the dermis, the septa, and the fascia. Edema, focal mucinosis, and macrophage inflammation may be features that identify this event. 
Energy expenditure and substrate metabolism measured by 24 h whole-body calorimetry in patients receiving cyclic and continuous total parenteral nutrition. 1. Twenty-four hour energy expenditure and its components, i.e. 'basal metabolic rate', activity energy expenditure and diet-induced thermogenesis were measured, using continuous whole-body indirect calorimetry, in patients receiving total parenteral nutrition while in remission from Crohn's disease (weight 51.9 +/- 9.9 kg, body mass index 19.2 +/- 2.0 kg/m2). 2. Total parenteral nutrition was infused continuously over 24 h in four subjects and cyclically, between 22.00 and 10.00 hours, in eight subjects. Twenty-four hour energy expenditure (6.83 +/- 1.10 MJ/24 h) was lower than total energy intake (10.09 +/- 1.63 MJ/24 h), resulting in a positive energy balance (3.26 +/- 1.42 MJ) in all subjects. Repeated measurements of resting energy expenditure in the continuously fed subjects (5.82 +/- 1.11 MJ/24 h) did not change significantly at different times of day (coefficient of variation 2.2-6.6%). In contrast, in cyclically fed subjects, resting energy expenditure was 24.2 +/- 9.0% higher towards the end of the 12 h feeding period than the 'basal metabolic rate', which was measured just before the start of the feeding period. 3. Diet-induced thermogenesis, calculated as the increment in resting energy expenditure above 'basal metabolic rate' over the 24 h period (adjusted for the reduction in energy expenditure during sleep), was found to be 0.60 +/- 0.29 MJ or 6.1 +/- 3.1% of the energy intake. 4. The energy cost of activity (activity energy expenditure) in the continuously fed patients, calculated as the difference between 24 h energy expenditure and the integrated 24 h measurements of resting energy expenditure, was 0.88 +/- 0.53 MJ, i.e. 12.9 +/- 5.9% of the 24 h energy expenditure. 5. The non-protein non-glycerol respiratory quotient exceeded 1.0 for varying periods of time (0.5-17 h) in 11 subjects, indicating net lipogenesis from carbohydrate. 6. The results demonstrate favourable rates of deposition, during intravenous feeding, of both energy and nitrogen over a 24 h period in patients recovering from an episode of Crohn's disease. The efficacy of these commonly used total parenteral nutrition regimens in these patients is related to three features that are absent in normal healthy individuals, namely a low basal metabolic rate, a low activity-related energy expenditure and prolonged periods of lipogenesis from carbohydrate. 
Clinical course and outcome in class IC antiarrhythmic overdose. 120 cases of class IC antiarrhythmic overdose, including propafenone, flecainide, ajmaline and prajmaline overdose, were evaluated with respect to clinical course, therapy and outcome. Whereas drug overdose in general has an overall mortality of less than 1%, intoxication with antiarrhythmic drugs of class IC was associated with a mean mortality of 22.5%. Nausea, which occurred within the first 30 minutes after ingestion, was the earliest symptom. Spontaneous vomiting probably led to self-detoxication in about half the patients. Cardiac symptoms including bradycardia and, less frequently, tachyrhythmia occurred after about 30 minutes to 2 hours. Therapeutic measures included administration of activated charcoal, gastric lavage and a saline laxative, catecholamines, and in some patients, hypertonic sodium bicarbonate, insertion of a transvenous pacemaker and hemoperfusion. Fatal outcome was mainly due to cardiac conduction disturbances progressing to electromechanical dissociation or asystolia. Resuscitation, which had to be performed in 29 patients, was successful in only two of them. No correlation was found between fatal outcome, the type of antiarrhythmic, and ingested dose. Since a specific treatment is not available and resuscitive procedures including sodium bicarbonate and insertion of a pacemaker are of limited therapeutic value, early diagnosis and primary detoxification are most important for prevention of fatal outcome. 
Antepartum testing in the hypertensive patient: when to begin. Antepartum testing has been recommended for patients whose pregnancies are complicated by hypertension. Although this is considered accepted practice, there are little data available to help the clinician know when to start testing. To help answer this question in patients with chronic hypertension and nonproteinuric pregnancy-induced hypertension, we reviewed the results of all antepartum tests between 1976 and 1987 in patients with these diagnoses. The primary mode of surveillance in the majority of our patients was the contraction stress test. We determined when patients first had positive contraction stress test results and when intervention occurred because of an abnormal antepartum test result. There were a total of 917 patients tested with these diagnoses. Fifty-three (5.8%) of these patients had at least one positive contraction stress test result. Twenty-two patients were delivered of infants before 35 weeks' gestation because of abnormal antepartum test results. Those with early intervention (less than 35 weeks' gestation) could not be differentiated from those with later intervention (greater than or equal to 35 weeks' gestation) by maternal age, diastolic blood pressure, or systolic blood pressure at the time of testing. The majority of patients who were delivered of infants before 35 weeks' gestation had a concomitant diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus, intrauterine growth retardation, diabetes mellitus, or superimposed preeclampsia. On the basis of when compromise was evident, patients with these diagnoses may require testing to be started as early as the fetus is considered viable. However, in those without these diagnoses, the clinician may delay the beginning of testing until 33 weeks' gestation without significant risk of pregnancy loss before testing. 
Socioeconomic status and survival from soft-tissue sarcomas: a population-based study in northern Italy. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Differential prognosis among cancer patients according to socioeconomic status (SES) has been reported. We analyzed survival from soft tissue sarcomas (STS) according to different SES indicators. METHODS: We followed up all the adult patients with a new diagnosis of STS occurring between 1.1.1981 and 31.12.1983 in an area of Northern Italy (N = 86). RESULTS: The overall three-year survival rate was 57 percent. After adjustment for confounders, both low education and blue collar jobs were negatively associated with survival. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that patients of low SES have a poorer prognosis for STS. 
Fine-needle aspiration in recurrent tonsillitis. The incidence of tonsillitis that is unresponsive to penicillin therapy is leading to concern. This phenomenon has been linked to a change in the core tonsil bacteria, in particular beta-lactamase production. To date, the only way to identify the presence of these resistant microbes is at tonsillectomy. In this prospective study, we performed fine-needle tonsil aspiration in 34 patients (mean age, 7.6 years) before tonsillectomy. The bacteriologic nature of the aspirate was compared with that obtained from culturing the tonsillar surface (in situ) and core of the resected tonsils. The bacteriologic findings of the aspirate corresponded closely with those of the tonsil core (qualitative and quantitative comparison), while the superficial swab was of limited value in predicting the core bacteria. Based on this study, tonsil fine-needle aspiration may have a place in the treatment of recurrent tonsillitis. 
Prophylaxis of stress ulcer bleeding. A meta-analysis. Recent studies have reported upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding in 5-25% of intensive care unit (ICU) patients with severe stress despite the use of antacids and/or H2-antagonists. To evaluate the efficacy of this regimen, a meta-analysis of all prospective studies on the prevention of stress bleeding, available from the international literature, was conducted. Only macroscopically visible bleeds were considered. Because alkalinization of the gastric juice has been incriminated in facilitating gastric and pulmonary colonization, agents with little or no influence on the gastric pH have been increasingly investigated in stress bleeding prophylaxis. The meta-analysis was therefore extended to determine the efficacy of two newer substances, pirenzepine and sucralfate, in preventing macroscopically visible stress bleeding, as well as their influence on pulmonary infections and mortality. Antacids and H2-antagonists proved to be significantly superior to untreated controls, with the tendency in favor of antacids administered in short intervals as compared to H2-antagonists. Pirenzepine and sucralfate were significantly superior to H2-antagonists, and sucralfate was as effective as an adequate antacid regimen. Patient groups treated with antacids or H2-antagonists showed a significantly higher risk for the development of nosocomial pneumonia. The most significant differences was found in long-term ventilated patients compared with patients treated with sucralfate. In the same patient group, antacids and H2-antagonists also showed a significantly higher mortality rate than sucralfate. 
Single-dose versus fractionated-dose dactinomycin in the treatment of Wilms' tumor. Preliminary results of a clinical trial. The Brazilian Wilms' Tumor Study Group. A clinical trial was conducted by the Brazilian Wilms' Tumor (WT) Study Group to compare the single-dose (60 micrograms/kg x 1 day) administration of dactinomycin (AMD) with the standard fractionated dose (15 micrograms/kg/d x 5 days) used in the US National WT Study. Except for the AMD administration, treatment for all patients followed that of the latter study. Patients were randomized to receive either of the two AMD regimens in the schedules most appropriate for their stage and histologic condition. One hundred seventy-six children with WT entered the study until December 1988. No significant differences in overall or relapse-free survival distributions were observed between treatment arms using data for all patients or data stratified by disease stage. Two-year survival rates were 83.0% and 85.3% for patients receiving the fractionated and single doses of AMD, respectively. Survival distributions could also be compared once patients with protocol violations were excluded. The overall 2-year survival rates were 89.7% and 88.6% and the relapse-free 2-year survival rates were 78.2% and 76.1% for the fractionated and single AMD doses, respectively. Altered liver function was seen in three patients who received fractionated dose and in four patients who received the single AMD dose. Acute toxicity was observed in only one patient of the fractionated-dose group and in zero of the patients of the single-dose group. At the closing date, patients assigned to the simplified AMD regimen had accumulated 1840 days less of hospital stay than those treated by the standard regimen. 
Differential expression of CD24-related epitopes in mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome: a potential marker for circulating Sezary cells. In the hematopoietic system, the B-cell associated antigen CD24 is expressed at high density on B cells, B-cell precursors, and B-cell malignancies as well as at low density on peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes. The 42-Kd sialoglycoprotein has not been previously demonstrated to be expressed on T cells, thymocytes, or T-cell malignancies. We identified three patients with mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome that showed low density expression of the CD24-related epitope recognized by antibody BA-1 on circulating T cells. All three patients had Sezary cells by morphologic assessment and clonal T-cell populations in the peripheral blood by gene rearrangement studies. In two of these patients, indirect immunofluorescence with a panel of six anti-CD24 monoclonal antibodies demonstrated reactivity for two of six antibodies in one case and only one of six antibodies in the other. The biologic significance of CD24-related epitope expression on circulating T cells in mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome is unclear. However, these findings suggest that differential, low density expression of CD24-related epitopes (BA-1+, OKB2-) may be a useful phenotypic marker for identifying circulating Sezary cells. 
A randomized clinical study of a calcium-entry blocker (lidoflazine) in the treatment of comatose survivors of cardiac arrest. Brain Resuscitation Clinical Trial II Study Group BACKGROUND. Abnormalities of cellular calcium homeostasis have been implicated in the pathophysiology of postischemic encephalopathy. Calcium-entry-blocking drugs inhibit the influx of calcium into cells and have been shown to mitigate postischemic encephalopathy in animal models. METHODS. Five hundred twenty patients with cardiac arrest who remained comatose after the restoration of spontaneous circulation were randomly assigned to receive three doses of lidoflazine, an experimental calcium-entry blocker, or a placebo and were followed for six months. Four patients were lost to follow-up. Treated patients received an intravenous loading dose (1 mg per kilogram of body weight) of lidoflazine and two subsequent doses (0.25 mg per kilogram) 8 and 16 hours after resuscitation. The investigators were blinded to treatment assignment. RESULTS. There was no statistically significant difference between the lidoflazine group (n = 259) and the placebo group (n = 257) in the proportion of patients who died during the six-month follow-up (82 vs. 83 percent), who survived with good cerebral recovery (15 vs. 13 percent), or who survived with severe neurologic deficit (1.2 vs. 1.9 percent). Analysis of the best level of recovery achieved at any time during follow-up also did not show a difference between the treatment groups: 24 percent of those given lidoflazine and 23 percent of those given placebo recovered good cerebral function (normal or only moderately disabled cerebral performance) at some time. CONCLUSIONS. The administration of lidoflazine after cardiac arrest was not found to be beneficial. Our data do not support the routine use of this calcium-entry-blocking drug in comatose survivors of cardiac arrest. 
Role of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography after orthotopic liver transplantation. Twelve of 178 (7%) liver transplant patients underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) after transplantation. The indications for ERCP were persistent or late onset cholestasis, recurrent cholangitis, and suspected biliary leaks or strictures. The time between transplantation and ERCP ranged from 44 to 330 days (median 153 days). Biliary complications diagnosed by ERCP included biliary sludge in the form of casts, calculi, or debris (n = 7); bile leaks (n = 2); a biliary stricture (n = 1), and complete biliary obstruction (n = 1). One patient had a normal cholangiogram after transplantation. Biliary sludge was detected by ultrasound before ERCP in only one of six patients. Eight patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy, followed by clearance of biliary sludge in four and dilatation of a biliary stricture in one. Two patients bled after papillotomy but neither required surgical intervention. At a median follow up of 1.2 years (range 0.5-2.8 years), nine patients are well and three have died. ERCP provides both accurate diagnosis of biliary complications after liver transplantation and treatment that obviates the need for additional surgery in selected patients. 
Gastric carcinoids and their precursor lesions. A histologic and immunohistochemical study of 23 cases. A histologic and immunohistochemical study was carried out in 23 unselected nonantral gastric carcinoids and their precursor lesions classified according to Solcia et al. None of the patients showed Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Two variants of carcinoids showing distinctive pathologic and pathogenetic characteristics were identified on the basis of presence or absence of associated chronic atrophic gastritis type A (A-CAG). Chronic atrophic gastritis type A was found in 19 cases showing either single or multiple neoplasms, tumor extension limited to the mucosa or submucosa, consistent endocrine cell precursor changes in extratumoral mucosa, and consistent hypergastrinemia and/or G cell hyperplasia. Associated precursor lesions were only hyperplastic in all but two cases with single carcinoids whereas they were also dysplastic in all but one case with multiple carcinoids. The four tumors arising in nonatrophic mucosa were all single, more aggressive, and not associated with extratumoral endocrine cell proliferations or with signs of gastrin hypersecretion. Tumor cells were diffusely immunoreactive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin but usually negative for chromogranin B or HISL-19. Scattered serotonin cells were found in ten carcinoids. They were more frequent in infiltrating than in intramucosal tumors as were the less represented pancreatic polypeptide cells whereas the reverse was found for alpha-subunit-containing cells. These results are of relevance for tumor pathogenesis and may provide the rationale for a less aggressive therapeutic approach in the patients. 
Changing the American diet. Impact on cancer prevention policy recommendations and program implications for the American Cancer Society [editorial] In 1984, the American Cancer Society (ACS) determined that a substantial proportion of new cancer cases could be avoided if seven dietary guidelines were followed. Education programs were developed for the general public, young people, and the mass media. In 1989, a Working Group of the Society reviewed the guidelines and found them to be valid, the only change being to combine two of them. This paper summarizes recent dietary recommendations of other health authorities, describes progress in meeting ACS dietary recommendations, analyzes the barriers to and opportunities for dietary improvement, and proposes new leadership opportunities for the Society. Concern is expressed that the current guidelines lack the clarity and specificity needed for public education, and that they are inconsistent with recent dietary recommendations of other authorities such as the US Department of Health and Human Services and the National Academy of Sciences. Revisions to the ACS Dietary Recommendations and implications for ACS programs are proposed. 
Comparison of transrectal prostate digital aspiration and ultrasound-guided core biopsies in 99 men. We compared digital transrectal needle aspiration and transrectal core prostate biopsies obtained with ultrasound guidance in 99 men. Both procedures were effective in identifying prostate cancer; complete sensitivity was 94 percent for aspiration and 90 percent for core biopsy. Aspiration confirmed 87 percent of 38 known cancers and 94 percent of 81 cancers overall, compared with 82 percent and 90 percent with core biopsies. The greatest number of cancers was found when both procedures were considered (95% of known and 98% of all cancers). Grading of both specimens was performed but was not equivalent. Unsatisfactory or inconclusive results by either procedure often obtained when cancer was present. We suggest digital transrectal needle aspiration as a first means of identifying most palpable prostate lesions. Transrectal core biopsies guided by ultrasonography should be used when suspicion of cancer cannot be confirmed by aspiration and when there is no palpable lesion (but clinical suspicion of cancer). 
Nutrition and hypertension prevention. Hypertension has been related to both obesity and a high salt intake. Evidence for the associations of blood pressure with body weight and dietary salt intake is summarized. In both adolescents and adults correlations between blood pressure and weight are highly significant, and in longitudinal studies change in blood pressure over time is correlated with change in weight. Correlations between salt intake and blood pressure are less striking, and the results of trials of modest salt restriction demonstrate a small but significant effect on blood pressure. Individuals vary in their susceptibility to salt, and hypertensive individuals are more responsive than normotensive individuals. Dietary deficiencies of potassium and calcium may amplify the effect of a high salt intake on blood pressure. Animal models provide compelling evidence for a genetic component to salt sensitivity of blood pressure. In two hypertension prevention trials, change in blood pressure was more convincingly related to change in weight than to change in dietary salt. Avoidance of obesity, or weight reduction in overweight individuals, should be key strategies for hypertension prevention. Avoidance of salt excess is also appropriate, although currently available trial data do not justify a recommendation of rigorous salt restriction for the entire population. 
Intravascular ultrasound assessment of lumen size and wall morphology in normal subjects and patients with coronary artery disease. BACKGROUND. Necropsy studies demonstrate that coronary artery disease (CAD) is frequently complex and eccentric. However, angiography provides only a silhouette of the vessel lumen. Intravascular ultrasound is a new tomographic imaging method for evaluation of coronary dimensions and wall morphology. Few data exist regarding intravascular ultrasound in patients with CAD, and no data exist for subjects with normal coronaries. METHODS AND RESULTS. We used a multielement 5.5F, 20-MHz ultrasound catheter to examine eight normal subjects and 43 patients with CAD. We assessed the safety of coronary ultrasound and the effect of vessel eccentricity on comparison of minimum luminal diameter by angiography and ultrasound. Normal and atherosclerotic wall morphology and stenosis severity were also evaluated by intravascular ultrasound. The only untoward effect was transient coronary spasm in five patients. At 33 sites in normal subjects, the lumen was nearly circular, yielding a close correlation between angiographic and ultrasonic minimum diameter (r = 0.92). At 90 sites in patients with CAD, ultrasound demonstrated a concentric cross section; correlation was also close (r = 0.93). However, at 72 eccentric sites, correlation was not as close (r = 0.77). For 41 stenoses, correlation between angiography and ultrasound for area reduction was moderate (r = 0.63). In normal subjects, wall morphology revealed a thin (0.30 mm or less) intimal leading edge and subadjacent sonolucent zone (0.20 mm or less). Patients with CAD exhibited increased thickness and echogenicity of the leading edge, thickened sonolucent zones, and/or attenuation of ultrasound transmission. CONCLUSIONS. These data establish that intravascular ultrasound is feasible and safe and yields luminal measurements that correlate generally with angiography. Differences between angiographic and ultrasound measures of lumen size in eccentric vessels probably reflect the dissimilar perspectives of tomographic and silhouette imaging techniques. Intravascular ultrasound provides detailed images of normal and abnormal wall morphology not previously possible in vivo. 
Epstein-Barr virus-associated peripheral T-cell lymphoma of activated CD8 phenotype. Two childhood cases are reported of peripheral T-cell lymphoma; the neoplastic cells expressed activated CD8 (T8) phenotype and contained Epstein-Barr viral (EBV) DNA. Both patients had an aggressive and rapid clinical course despite chemotherapy. Elevated titers of antibodies to EBV-viral capsid antigen (greater than 640) and early antigen (greater than 10) were found in both patients. Histology revealed pleomorphic immunoblastic lymphoma with extensive necrosis in one case and an angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy-like pattern containing Reed-Sternberg-like giant cells in the other. Southern blot hybridization studies showed clonal rearrangement of the T-cell-receptor beta gene in both cases, and a cytogenetic study on one case revealed clonal structure abnormality involving chromosomes 1, 6, 7, 10, and 19. Analysis of the tumor DNA showed a high copy number of EBV genome per cell compared with that of Raji and Marmoset B 95.8 lines; the study for human T-cell leukemia virus type I was negative. The EBV genome was found by in situ hybridization in the tumor nuclei in both cases. In addition to Burkitt's lymphoma, T-cell lymphoma of the helper phenotype, and Hodgkin's disease, EBV can contribute to the development of CD8-positive aggressive T-cell lymphoma. 
An extensive transbasal approach to frontal skull-base tumors. Technical note. Lesions in the base of the frontal fossa have conventionally been approached extra- and intradurally through a bilateral frontal craniotomy. However, when the lesion is large or deeply situated, wider bilateral retraction of the frontal lobes is required to obtain a sufficiently large operative field. The authors describe a new operative approach for huge tumors at the frontal skull base, employing an en bloc bilateral osteotomy of the orbital roofs and frontal sinus. This procedure, which is a modification of the transbasal approach described by Derome and Guiot, is termed the "extensive transbasal approach." The advantages of this technique over conventional operative approaches are described. 
The effect of high-dose steroids on MRI gadolinium enhancement in acute demyelinating lesions. Gadolinium (Gd) enhancement of brain lesions by MRI is a marker of active blood-brain barrier damage secondary to an inflammatory process. We studied the effects of high-dose (1,000 mg/d) intravenous (IV) methylprednisolone (Mp) for 4 to 8 days on Gd-enhancing lesions in seven patients with acute demyelinating diseases and compared pretreatment brain MRIs with studies obtained 1 to 4 days after treatment. Five patients had complete suppression, and two had significant suppression of Gd enhancement following treatment. In addition, six of seven patients had Gd-enhancing lesions that explained their clinical signs; in five of six of these patients, suppression of the Gd-enhanced lesions temporally correlated with clinical improvement. Thus, short courses of high-dose IV Mp suppress Gd enhancement in acute demyelinating lesions, and this correlates with clinical improvement. 
Gold weight lid load as a secondary procedure. This paper discusses the use of gold weight lid load as a secondary procedure. By using three representative patients, I emphasize the following points: First, the dominance of the eye must be determined so that postoperative changes in the eyelid height can be anticipated. Second, in order to obtain an accurate weight of the implant needed, the restrictive effect on the eyelid from the previous surgery (a tarsorrhaphy or an encircling band) must first be eliminated. Third, to ensure the best result and the patient's comfort, lacrimal function, Bell's phenomenon, and levator function must be assessed. 
Radiofrequency current catheter ablation of accessory atrioventricular pathways. Tachyarrhythmias mediated by an accessory atrioventricular pathway and which are refractory to drug therapy have been treated surgically with variable success. Early results of direct-current catheter ablation were encouraging but were associated with complications such as barotrauma and the need for a general anaesthetic. We have investigated the endocardial application of radiofrequency current which is a potentially safer technique. Of 105 patients with an accessory atrioventricular pathway, 79 were located on the left side of the heart and 32 on the right side. Accessory pathway conduction was permanently abolished in 93 (89%) patients. Complications developed in 3 patients: thrombotic occlusion of a femoral artery, arteriovenous fistula formation at the site of groin puncture, and left ventricular rupture with cardiac tamponade after direct-current shocks. There were no deaths from the procedure. We conclude that radiofrequency current catheter ablation is both effective and safe for patients with symptomatic tachyarrhythmias mediated by accessory atrioventricular pathways. 
Differentiation of HL-60 cells into cells with the osteoclast phenotype. The osteoclast is the unique multinucleated cell that is responsible for bone degradation in both physiological and pathological circumstances. However, knowledge of the lineage of this inaccessible cell, the nature of its precursors, and the regulation of its formation and activation is limited and controversial. Here we show that the human promyelocytic cell line HL-60 has the potential, under the appropriate culture conditions, to differentiate into cells that have morphological and functional characteristics of osteoclasts, including multinucleation, presence of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activity, cross-reactivity with monoclonal antibodies that preferentially recognize osteoclasts, and capacity to resorb bone and respond to calcitonin. The multinucleated cells also contain high affinity receptors to calcitonin, in contrast to wild-type undifferentiated HL-60 cells. These data suggest that osteoclasts share a common precursor with hematopoietic cells. These undifferentiated and differentiated HL-60 cells should provide a unique model for study of the cell biology of human osteoclast differentiation, allowing molecular biological and biochemical studies heretofore not possible. 
Cancers of the maxillary sinus. Maxillary sinus cancers are rare as compared with cancers of other sites. Because the onset is insidious, they are at an advanced stage at diagnosis and therefore present a therapeutic challenge for local control. Traditionally, treatment has been surgery or irradiation, or a combination of the two. Local control and survival, however, remains poor. Numerous chemotherapeutic agents have shown activity against squamous cell cancers of the head and neck. In several studies the use of either neoadjuvant or concurrent chemotherapy has improved local control and survival when compared with historical controls. Randomized studies are needed to confirm the benefit of chemotherapy over the standard forms of surgical and radiation therapy. 
Oral monomorphic adenomas. Monomorphic adenomas of the oral cavity have a predilection for the anterior mouth, particularly the upper lip. Two of the monomorphic adenomas, the inverted ductal papilloma and the canalicular adenoma, are biologically benign, but unfamiliarity with their histopathologic appearance can lead to a misdiagnosis of malignancy. The clinical and pathologic features of each are presented. 
Patterns of blood-brain barrier breakdown in inflammatory demyelination. The evolution of the changes in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (CREAE), a model of immune-mediated demyelination, has been studied by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); gadolinium-DTPA (Gd-DTPA) was used to detect BBB breakdown by both quantitative and qualitative techniques. Animals with acute EAE were examined for comparison. In animals with CREAE an approximately linear relationship was found between the mean number of lesions enhancing with Gd-DTPA seen per MRI slice and the severity of clinical disability at relapse. In addition, a direct relationship was seen between the duration of clinical relapse and the duration of enhancement with Gd-DTPA for lesions associated with the relapse. Lesions studied in animals having entered a progressive phase of disease showed the most sustained BBB breakdown. These observations suggest that BBB breakdown is important in the development of clinical signs in inflammatory demyelination. In CREAE, areas of focal enhancement with Gd-DTPA could usually be clearly defined at a time of clinical relapse. In slices free of focal lesions, no abnormal Gd-DTPA leakage could be detected using a quantitative method. In contrast, in acute EAE no focal lesions were visible, but significant leakage was detected by measurement. No change was found in T2 relaxation times in CREAE or acute EAE. The pattern of BBB breakdown in inflammatory demyelination evolves from a diffuse shortlived disturbance in acute EAE to a more focal and prolonged breakdown in animals with chronic relapsing and progressive disease. The broad similarities in the pattern of BBB breakdown seen in CREAE and multiple sclerosis support the hypothesis that the initial vascular changes in the human disease are due to inflammation which could be mediated immunologically. 
Prospective quality-of-life analysis after palliative photoablation for the treatment of malignant dysphagia. Forty patients were treated for the relief of malignant dysphagia by using laser photoablation. Their quality of life was assessed before the start of treatment and at monthly intervals until death. Two methods were used, a physician's assessment (QL index) and a patient's self-assessment, the linear analogue self-assessment (LASA). There was significant correlation between assessments done at different times by different physicians (QL index rs, 0.786; P less than 0.001; LASA rs, 0.865; P less than 0.001). The correlation coefficient of the QL index and the LASA score with the patient's dysphagia grade was 0.459 and 0.336, respectively. The patient's swallowing ability, QL index, and LASA all were improved significantly at some time after laser therapy. The mean survival was 16 weeks with 58% of patients dying at home, 28% in the hospital, and 18% in a hospice. It was concluded that laser photoablation improves the overall quality of life in patients with malignant dysphagia. 
Postradiation lower motor neuron syndrome presenting as monomelic amyotrophy. Monomelic amyotrophy developed 16 months, nine and 12 years after irradiation of the lumbosacral spinal cord for seminoma in one patient and for Hodgkin's disease in two others. In two patients, involvement was clinically limited to one leg, with a subacute course followed by plateau in the first case and with progressive worsening in the second one. In the third patient, the course was progressive with involvement of the other lower limb occurring five years later. From clinical and electrophysiological data, it seems probable that the disease process was a result of a selective injury to the lower motor neuron in the lower spinal cord. 
KTP laser stapedotomy: is it safe? Recent published concerns about the potential for visible light lasers to injure the inner ear have led to differing conclusions. While one has advised cautious application of a visible light laser, another eschewed visible light lasers in favor of the CO2 laser. Others have anguished over the efficacy of stapes surgeons as numbers of suitable candidates for otosclerosis surgery decline. In three years' experience with the KTP-532 laser, 80 primary and revision stapedotomies have been completed by this author. The author's experience with low morbidity and high air-bone gap closure rates are presented. The absence of apparent cochlear injury suggests that properly used KTP laser systems are safe. Competitive results were obtained with less than prolific numbers of stapes surgeries. 
Prostacyclin production and mediation of adenylate cyclase activity in the pulmonary artery. Alterations after prolonged hypoxia in the rat. Prostacyclin is a critical mediator of structure and function in the pulmonary circulation, causing both the inhibition of vascular smooth muscle growth and vasodilation via the stimulation of adenylate cyclase. To examine the potential role of alterations in prostacyclin production or mechanism of action in chronic hypoxic pulmonary hypertension, we determined the effects of prolonged (7 d) in vivo hypoxia on in vitro prostacyclin synthesis and mediation of adenylate cyclase activity in rat main pulmonary arteries. In control arteries prostacyclin production exceeded that of prostaglandin (PG) E2 by 25-fold, with 42% originating from the endothelium. Studies utilizing indomethacin revealed that endogenous prostaglandins mediate at least 69% of basal adenylate cyclase activity. Prostacyclin-stimulated enzyme activity was enhanced by exogenous GTP, indicating that this is a receptor-mediated process involving G protein amplification. Comparable dose-related responses to prostacyclin and PGE2 suggest that these agents may activate a common receptor. After 7 d of in vivo hypoxia there was a 2.7-fold increase in in vitro prostacyclin production, with equivalent increases in synthesis in the endothelium and vascular smooth muscle. However, despite this increase there was no change in basal adenylate cyclase activity, and this was associated with attenuated sensitivity of the enzyme to prostacyclin stimulation. Concomitant diminution of the response to beta-adrenergic stimulation, with previously-demonstrated beta receptor downregulation and unaltered postreceptor-mediated activity, suggests that the blunted response to prostacyclin is due to receptor downregulation. Parallel studies of the thoracic aorta indicated that these changes are specific to the pulmonary artery. It is postulated that attenuation of the response of adenylate cyclase to prostacyclin may contribute to the structural changes and hypertension observed in the pulmonary vasculature of the rat with chronic hypoxia. 
Effects of tissue-type plasminogen activator and anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex on mortality in acute myocardial infarction. An overview of eight randomized controlled trials of tissue-type plasminogen activator (Alteplase or Duteplase) and 10 of anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (Anistreplase) showed that the odds of early death were reduced by 29% by tissue-type plasminogen activator and 46% by anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex, with overlapping 95% confidence intervals. Although the beneficial effects of both agents are consistent and are strengthened when all the trials are considered together, the available data do not permit comparisons of the relative efficacy of these two agents with each other or with streptokinase. 
Clinical patterns and associated conditions in chronic uveitis. We determined the relative frequencies of the different types of chronic uveitis, and the possible associated conditions, among 400 consecutive patients with chronic uveitis examined during the years 1982 through 1988. Of the 400 patients, 183 (45.75%) had anterior uveitis, 98 (24.5%) ahd panuveitis, 61 (15.3%) had intermediate uveitis, and 58 (14.5%) had isolated posterior uveitis. Only four of the 98 patients with panuveitis (4.1%) were considered idiopathic after a comprehensive examination, whereas 94 of the 183 patients with anterior uveitis (51.4%) were similarly classified. We found an associated condition in 242 of the 400 patients of the study group (60.5%). Of these 242 patients, 61 had Behcet's disease, which constituted the most frequently encountered associated condition in this study. Of the 61 patients with Behcet's disease, 58 had panuveitis and constituted 59.2% of the panuveitis group. Of the 61 patients with intermediate uveitis, 17 (27.9%) had a concurrent disease. An associated condition was found in 95% and 96.2% of patients with unilateral and bilateral panuveitis, respectively, but in none of the patients with unilateral intermediate uveitis. Environmental, cultural, or genetic factors may be accountable for the differences discovered between our findings and those of previously published studies from the United States and England with respect to relative frequencies of some of the associated diseases in patients with chronic uveitis. 
Postprandial hypotension: microneurographic analysis and treatment with vasopressin. To clarify the mechanism of postprandial hypotension (PPH), we made microneurographic analyses of patients with PPH and 10 healthy controls by recording multi-unit vasoconstrictive impulses of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) directly from the tibial nerve fascicles during a glucose tolerance test. Oral intake of 75 grams glucose in 225 ml of water produced significant and prolonged hypotension in all patients and an increase in MSNA in all healthy subjects. Insulin and glucose responses were not significantly correlated with arterial blood pressure reduction. PPH was prevented by an infusion of vasopressin (0.3 U/min) given before glucose intake. These results suggest that PPH is caused by the lack of sympathetic compensation for the systemic hypotensive stress of splanchnic blood pooling that occurs after food ingestion, and that prior treatment with vasopressin reduces the portal venous flow by constricting the splanchnic vessels in patients with PPH. 
Cardiac pacemaker in high spinal cord injury. Bradycardia followed by cardiac arrest is well documented as a complication of acute injury to the cervical spinal cord. This life-threatening bradycardia is attributed to an imbalance in the autonomic nervous system resulting from dissociation of the parasympathetic from the sympathetic responses during the stage of spinal shock. A patient with a C2 complete quadriplegia secondary to birth trauma who experienced symptomatic bradycardia, continuing for 21 months after injury despite intensive medical management, is reported. Clinical improvement followed insertion of a cardiac pacemaker. Possible etiologies for the continuation of abnormal bradycardia episodes after the resolution of spinal shock are discussed. Cardiac pacemaker implantation is advocated for patients with high cervical spinal cord injuries and continuing symptomatic bradycardia not responding to medical measures. 
Costal fringe. Costal fringe consists of a bandlike pattern of venous telangiectases along the anterolateral costal margins. It is a common and easily recognized entity, usually seen in elderly men. Association with underlying disease is not well established. To assess the frequency of costal fringe in a healthy young adult population, we examined 1523 active duty Air Force personnel (1203 men and 320 women) between the ages of 17 and 34 years. All subjects were human immunodeficiency virus seronegative; none had known hyperestrogenic or other disease states. Costal fringe was present in only three individuals, all men, a frequency of 0.2%. Costal fringe is a rare finding in healthy young adults. 
Branched-chain-enriched amino acid solutions in patients with liver failure: an early example of nutritional pharmacology. The use of BCAA in the treatment of hepatic failure has been controversial. Even in retrospect, it is difficult to know why this controversy existed and why it has been so emotional, except for the fact that such a treatment modality has flown in the face of conventional therapy of hepatic encephalopathy, and also, probably more importantly, directly attacked some of the cherished notions of the nature of hepatic encephalopathy. Time and distance have allowed some of the controversy to die down, and as time has elapsed it has become clear that at least in the area of nutritional support of patients with hepatic failure, BCAA are the preferred alternative to treat patients who are otherwise protein intolerant. A recent unbiased review using the techniques of meta-analysis has concluded that the BCAA are efficacious for the treatment of patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Since this manuscript was completed another study has been reported. In this study, it was notable that those patients treated with oral BCAA became neurologically normal, a finding which the authors found very striking. 
Comparative evaluation of chenodeoxycholic and ursodeoxycholic acids in obese patients. Effects on biliary lipid metabolism during weight maintenance and weight reduction. Obesity is a condition associated with an increased frequency of gallstone disease. This study attempted to evaluate the comparative effects of two gallstone-dissolving agents, chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid, on bile acid metabolism and biliary lipid secretion in obese subjects in order to identify the bile acid of choice in preventing and treating gallstone disease in obesity. Twenty obese subjects (greater than 120% ideal body wt) were randomly treated with ursodeoxycholic acid (10 mg.kg-1.day-1.1 mo-1) and then with chenodeoxycholic acid (15 mg.kg-1.day-1.1 mo-1) or with chenodeoxycholic acid first and then with ursodeoxycholic acid. Patients 1-10 were studied while eating an unrestricted weight-maintenance diet, whereas patients 11-20 were eating a 1080-kcal/d hypocaloric diet. Biliary lipid composition, cholesterol saturation index, and biliary bile acid pattern were evaluated in all subjects before and after each treatment period; in subjects 6-10 and 16-20, biliary lipid secretion rates and bile acid pool size were also evaluated. Both ursodeoxycholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid decreased cholesterol outputs and cholesterol saturation index. However, during the weight-maintenance period the decrease induced by chenodeoxycholic acid was not significant. Biliary cholesterol outputs and cholesterol saturation index were always lower during ursodeoxycholic acid administration than during chenodeoxycholic acid therapy. Ursodeoxycholic acid levels during ursodeoxycholic acid administration and chenodeoxycholic acid levels during chenodeoxycholic acid administration increased in bile to 50% and 77%, respectively, of total bile acid levels. Bile acid pool size remained unchanged during chenodeoxycholic acid administration and was significantly reduced by ursodeoxycholic acid administration during the weight-reduction period. In conclusion, ursodeoxycholic acid in obese subjects seems more effective than chenodeoxycholic acid, at least during weight maintenance, in reducing cholesterol saturation of bile. This effect is related to a significant decrease of biliary cholesterol output. 
Insulin attenuation of vasoconstrictor responses to phenylephrine in Zucker lean and obese rats. Recent data from this laboratory indicate that insulin resistant obese Zucker rats exhibit hypertension associated with exaggerated in vitro vascular reactivity to phenylephrine, serotonin, and KCl, and we have found insulin to attenuate vascular reactivity responses to these agonists. Accordingly, in the present study we evaluated the possibility that exaggerated vascular reactivity responses in obese Zucker rats may result from insulin resistance and a consequent failure of insulin to attenuate vasoactive responses. Thoracic aortae were isolated from male 16 week old lean and obese Zucker rats, and replicate helical strips from each animal were suspended in a muscle bath under a resting tension of 1.4 g in the presence or absence of insulin (0.1 mU/mL) for 1 h. The insulin was then washed out, and vascular reactivity responses to phenylephrine were determined. The obese rats exhibited greater reactivity to phenylephrine (ED50:1.10 +/- 90 X 10(-8) v 7.57 +/- 0.88 X 10(-10) mol/L in lean and obese rats, respectively, P less than .025). Insulin caused a significant attenuation of the contractile response in both the lean and obese aortae. However, lean rats exhibited a markedly greater attenuation than the obese rats (46.0 +/- 17.0 v 17.8 +/- 7.5% attenuation in the lean and obese rats, respectively, P less than .01). These data suggest that increased vascular reactivity responses in obese Zucker rats may result from their insulin resistant state and, consequently, a diminished ability of insulin to attenuate vasoconstrictor responses. 
Stimulation of protein synthesis in human tumours by parenteral nutrition: evidence for modulation of tumour growth. Eighteen patients with localized colorectal carcinoma were randomized to receive intravenous nutrition or to be fasted during the 24 h before surgery. Protein synthesis, an index of tumour growth, was then measured by the incorporation of [13C]leucine into tumour protein immediately before surgery. The mean (s.e.m.) rate of tumour protein synthesis in patients receiving nutrition (42.7(3.5) per cent per day) was 89 per cent higher than the rate in the fasted group (22.6(1.9) per cent per day) (P = 0.002). As tumours consist of a variety of different cell types, in vitro rates of protein synthesis were measured in malignant cells isolated from colorectal tumours and cultured with autologous serum obtained from the patient in either the fasted or the fed state. There was a mean increase of 81 per cent in protein synthesis when fed rather than fasted serum was used (P less than 0.02), indicating that the malignant cells themselves respond to nutrient supply. This increase in tumour protein synthesis provides the first evidence in vivo that the exogenous supply of nutrients can modulate the rate of growth of a human tumour. 
A pathophysiological interpretation of unresponsiveness to spironolactone in a stepped-care approach to the diuretic treatment of ascites in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients. It has been hypothesized that the magnitude of proximal sodium reabsorption affects the response to aldosterone antagonists in nonazotemic cirrhotic patients with ascites. To verify this hypothesis, we evaluated intrarenal sodium handling by lithium clearance in 51 nonazotemic ascitic cirrhotic patients and in 23 controls who were maintained on the same low-sodium diet (80 mmol/day). Seven of 51 cirrhotic patients underwent spontaneous diuresis, whereas 44 required diuretic treatment. Treatment was started with spironolactone at a dose of 150 mg once daily. The dose was increased to 300 mg and then to 500 mg once daily if no response ensued. Cirrhotic patients who did not experience ascites mobilization with 500 mg spironolactone were then treated with a combined diuretic regimen that included spironolactone at a fixed dose (500 mg once daily) and furosemide at an initial dose of 50 mg once daily. The dose was increased to 100, 150 and 200 mg once daily if no response was noticed. Response to diuretic treatment was defined as body weight loss greater than 700 gm every 3 days until ascites became clinically undetectable. Nonresponders (43%) to spironolactone showed lower sodium fractional excretion (0.34% +/- 0.28% vs. 0.80% +/- 0.50%; p less than 0.001) because of a lower fractional sodium delivery to the distal tubule (18.2% +/- 5.8% vs. 23.4% +/- 7.2%; p less than 0.025) than responders. 
The effect of sodium hyaluronate on the outcome of trabeculectomy. The outcome of trabeculectomy with the use of sodium hyaluronate was investigated in 99 trabeculectomies and compared with the results achieved in an earlier series of trabeculectomies without the use of sodium hyaluronate. The use of sodium hyaluronate facilitated performance of the surgery and tended to reduce the severity of postoperative shallow anterior chamber and intraoperative bleeding. It remains to be shown whether it also may prevent lens opacity increase. 
Prevalence of primary fibromyalgia in the Finnish population. OBJECTIVE--To obtain descriptive epidemiological data on fibromyalgia and its components in a representative sample of the Finnish population. DESIGN--Cross sectional study of 8000 Finns aged 30 or more invited for screening and a main examination for musculoskeletal disorders and other major disorders. SETTING--A mobile clinic. POPULATION--7217 subjects who attended the screening phase; 3434 subjects positive on screening who attended the main examination for musculoskeletal disorders. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Musculoskeletal, mental, and other symptoms detected by interview and questionnaire; results of standardised clinical examination of the musculoskeletal system; operational definition of fibromyalgia; mortality at 10 years. RESULTS--The prevalence of fibromyalgia was low (54 cases; 0.75%) and related to age (peak prevalence at 55-64 years), female sex (twice as prevalent in women), occupation (no cases among 1596 white collar professionals), level of education (strong inverse gradient), and high levels of physical stress at work. No significant associations were found with body mass index, smoking, or mental stress at work. The prevalence of fibromyalgia was sensitive to even minor modifications of the definition. Fibromyalgia was strongly coincident with many other disorders, especially musculoskeletal conditions. Fibromyalgia did not predict mortality. CONCLUSION--Descriptive epidemiological data offer little support for the concept of fibromyalgia. 
Comparison of postoperative complications between saphenous vein and IMA grafts to left anterior descending coronary artery. Considerable controversy exists regarding relative morbidity associated with the saphenous vein graft (SVG) and internal mammary artery (IMA) graft in patients undergoing myocardial revascularization. As a part of the cooperative study on use of antiplatelet drugs for graft patency, operative and postoperative data were prospectively collected on 1,150 patients who underwent either SVG (n = 656) or IMA anastomosis (n = 494) to the left anterior descending coronary artery. There were no differences in baseline characteristics of patients, distribution of randomization among treatment groups, and total number of distal anastomoses performed between the two groups. The aortic cross-clamp time, cardiopulmonary bypass duration, operative time, and chest tube drainage were greater (p = 0.0001) in the patients with IMA grafts compared with SVG. However, there was no difference in the operative mortality rate, the amount of blood and blood products received, the reoperation rate for control of postoperative bleeding, and incidence of wound complications between the two groups. The early and 1-year patency rates for the IMA were slightly but not significantly better than the SVG patency rates (92.8% versus 90.1% for 1-year patency; p = 0.309). In conclusion, use of IMA is associated with a longer operative time as well as increased postoperative bleeding compared with the SVG. It, however, does not increase operative mortality or postoperative morbidity. 
Immunoreactive endometritis. A benign polyclonal lymphoid proliferation of the endometrium which bears morphological resemblance to the malignant lymphoma is found among women with bleeding disturbances. Seven previous cases have so far been reported in the literature. A retrospective examination of 11,648 endometrial specimens revealed 287 examples of chronic endometritis (2.5%) of which 29 displayed lymphoid proliferation. We found no evidence of malignant haematologic disorder after a median observation of 68 months and no positive association with prior or present infectious disease. Histological follow-up of ten patients showed that changes could persist for up to 12 months. We name this benign condition 'immunoreactive endometritis'. 
The effect of enteric-coated aspirin on the morning increase in platelet activity. In vitro platelet aggregability to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and epinephrine increases in the morning, as does the frequency of myocardial infarction. A single-blind, randomized, cross-over study of 15 healthy males was conducted to determine: (1) if other measures of platelet activity show a morning increases and (2) if aspirin eliminates any increases in platelet activity detected. Subjects received 325 mg of enteric-coated aspirin (ECA) or placebo. During placebo therapy,platelet thromboxane A2 production (following collagen stimulation) increased significantly after the subjects got up, as did platelet aggregability to ADP, epinephrine, and collagen. ECA markedly reduced baseline platelet thromboxane A2 production and eliminated the increase after the subjects got up. It also abolished biphasic aggregation in response to epinephrine and ADP (thereby eliminating the morning increase in aggregability to these agents), lengthened collagen lag time, reduced synergistic aggregation to combined agonists, was effective on day 2, and did not alter increases of tissue plasminogen activator that occurred following the subjects' arising. If aspirin prevents myocardial infarction by its antiplatelet action, as seems likely, the preferential reduction of morning infarction observed in the Physicians' Health Study, and the demonstration that aspirin eliminates the morning increase in platelet activity, suggest that the morning increase in myocardial infarction is due in part to a concurrent relatively modest increase in platelet activity. 
Independent risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma in French drinkers. The aim of this study was to assess whether markers of hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus infection are independent risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma in drinkers after adjustment for three known risk factors: cirrhosis, age and male sex. Among 2,015 consecutive drinkers admitted, hepatitis C virus antibodies were found by sensitive radioimmunoassay in 1,259. The following five factors have been identified and ranked as risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma in unidimensional and regression analysis: cirrhosis (p less than 0.001), age (p less than 0.001), male sex (p less than 0.001), presence of HBsAg (p less than 0.001) and presence of hepatitis C virus antibodies (p less than 0.03). Among drinkers with cirrhosis, the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma were older (64 +/- 11 yr vs. 56 +/- 9 yr; p less than 0.001), were more often male (93% vs. 65%; p less than 0.0001) and had higher prevalence of HBsAg (9% vs. 2%; p = 0.02) and hepatitis C virus antibodies (41% vs. 26%; p = 0.02). A simple algorithm permitted us to identify a high-risk population of drinkers: the male cirrhotic patient older than 50 yr. The relative risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in this selected population was 17.7 (95% confidence interval = 9.0 to 37.5; p less than 0.0001). From a pragmatic point of view, the detection of HBsAg or hepatitis C virus antibodies, although independently associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, is not useful in increasing the diagnostic value of this algorithm because of the poor sensitivity of these tests. The weak relationships observed between hepatitis C virus antibodies and hepatocellular carcinoma needs confirmation by more accurate tests. 
The modified buccal musculomucosal flap method for cleft palate surgery. We have reported previously on a palatoplasty method, called the T-shaped musculomucosal buccal flap method, for the primary repair of a cleft palate. This method has been used on more than 90 patients, and satisfactory outcomes have resulted in terms of maxillar development, the prevention of fistulation, and verbal functions. However, 14.3 percent of these patients exhibited a velopharyngeal incompetence that showed no potential improvement through training. In the majority of these patients, the entire raw surface of the oral cavity side could not be covered with a buccal musculomucosal flap, and as a result, postoperative contraction of the soft palate occurred. Thus a new surgical method has proven effective in which both buccal musculomucosal flaps are used as an oral lining, the nasal mucosa having been extended by Z-plasty. We have performed 25 operations using this new method and have observed no postoperative contractions of the soft palate, notwithstanding two cases (8.0 percent) of postoperative fistulation. 
Primary seminoma of the seminal vesicle: report of a case. We report on the clinical and histological findings of a primary extragonadal germ cell tumor that was proved to be a seminoma of the seminal vesicle. The patient had left ureteral obstruction at diagnosis. The testes were normal on physical and ultrasound examination, and the retroperitoneum was free of tumor. There was no recurrence 8 months postoperatively. 
Carcinoid tumors: the relationship between clinical presentation and the extent of disease. In this study the relationship between the initial clinical presentation and the extent of tumor progression was determined in a group of 31 patients with carcinoid tumors. The proportion of patients with symptomatic tumors was similar to those patients with carcinoid tumors that were incidentally found (55% versus 45%; SE = 0.089). Symptoms were caused by metastatic tumor in nine (30%) of the patients and by local effects of the primary tumor in eight (26%) of the patients. The patients with symptoms had a significantly increased frequency of metastatic disease, even when the symptoms were due to the primary tumor, compared to patients with no symptoms (76% versus 7%; p less than 0.001). Tumor size was related to the presence of symptoms and metastases. Symptoms were most common when the size of the primary tumor was greater than 1.0 cm (p less than 0.005), although the rate of metastases increased when primary tumors were 2.0 cm and larger (p less than 0.01). These results indicate that the presence of symptoms or a primary tumor 2.0 cm or larger are associated with an increased risk of metastatic disease in patients with carcinoid tumors. These patients should be treated with wide resection of the primary tumor and its lymphatic drainage. 
PUVA-induced lymphomatoid papulosis in a patient with mycosis fungoides. The occurrence of lymphomatoid papulosis in patients with cutaneous lymphoma, particularly mycosis fungoides, has been described in medical literature. A 68-year-old woman affected by mycosis fungoides in the plaque stage noticed that multiple papulonodular lesions of lymphomatoid papulosis developed suddenly after a few sessions of PUVA therapy. The PUVA induction of lymphomatoid papulosis was confirmed by the appearance of new lesions after a second cycle of PUVA exposure on a limited area of the body. Complete regression of all PUVA-induced lymphomatoid papulosis lesions was achieved within a few weeks with oral prednisone and topical steroids. During the entire treatment the patches and plaques of mycosis fungoides persisted unchanged. 
Primary gastric mantle zone lymphoma. A report of two cases. We report two cases of primary gastric mantle zone lymphoma. Histologic examination revealed numerous lymphoid vague nodules in the mucosa and submucosa of the resected stomach. The neoplastic cells in these nodules were slightly larger than small lymphocytes and had more or less cleaved nuclei. Immunostaining on paraffin-embedded sections showed that the neoplastic cells in the nodules of these cases were LN-1- and LN-2+ and had monotypic immunoglobulin (IgM-lambda and IgM-kappa, respectively). Immunostaining on frozen tissue specimens showed that the neoplastic cells or nodules were positive for surface IgM, surface IgD, alkaline phosphatase, and DRC-1. One third to two thirds of the cells were Leu-1+ (CD5+). These results indicated that these cases were primary gastric mantle zone lymphoma. More attention should be paid to primary gastric mantle zone lymphoma because this disease might be erroneously diagnosed as either pseudolymphoma or reactive lymphoid hyperplasia of the stomach. 
Multiple sclerosis: histopathologic and MR and/or CT correlation in 37 cases at biopsy and three cases at autopsy. The authors retrospectively reviewed the cases of 40 patients with biopsy- or autopsy-proved inflammatory demyelination consistent with multiple sclerosis (MS); each patient underwent magnetic resonance (MR) and/or computed tomographic (CT) imaging. In review of the 32 MR and 30 CT examinations, three predominant radiologic patterns were apparent: (a) relatively small homogeneous lesions with no or minimal diffuse enhancement; (b) hypoattenuating lesions on CT scans and hypointense lesions on short-TR MR images, with a contrast material-enhanced, isoattenuating or isointense ring; and (c) lesions that were more infiltrative and ill defined, with mixed attenuation and signal intensity and scattered enhancement. A common radiologic feature was lack of mass effect or edema in white matter surrounding even large lesions. In all but four patients the lesions were classified as active by using both histologic and clinical criteria. Histologically active lesions had various radiologic appearances; however, in all contrast-enhanced studies they demonstrated some form of enhancement. Inactive lesions were homogeneously hypoattenuating on CT scans, hypointense on short-TR MR images, and hyperintense on unenhanced, long-TR MR images. 
Recognition of gonadotroph adenomas in women BACKGROUND. Pituitary adenomas that arise from the gonadotroph cells are being recognized with increasing frequency in men, but they are still rarely recognized in women. This rarity could be the result of an actual difference in occurrence or of greater difficulty in recognition. The tumors are usually recognized in men more than 50 years old, but elevated serum gonadotropin levels in women of that age could be produced by normal gonadotroph cells. METHODS. Because the stimulation of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and the beta subunit of LH (LH beta) by thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) is a characteristic of gonadotroph adenomas in men, we administered TRH to 16 women with apparently nonsecreting pituitary macroadenomas and measured serum FSH, LH, LH beta, and the glycoprotein hormone alpha subunit every 15 minutes for 90 minutes before and 90 minutes after. The results were compared with the responses in 16 healthy women matched for age and in 10 women with macroadenomas secreting prolactin, growth hormone, or corticotropin. The tumors from 12 of the women with nonsecreting adenomas were cultured, and the secretion of FSH, LH, and LH beta in culture was determined. RESULTS. Eleven of the 16 women with apparently nonsecreting adenomas had significant increases in serum LH beta in response to TRH, 3 had FSH responses, and 4 had LH responses. None of the 16 healthy women and none of the 10 women with secreting macroadenomas had LH beta, FSH, or LH responses to TRH. Ten of the 12 adenomas that were cultured secreted readily detectable amounts of FSH, LH, and LH beta, and their secretion in vitro correlated with the patients' responses to TRH in vivo. CONCLUSIONS. Most apparently nonsecreting pituitary macroadenomas in women arise from gonadotroph cells. The majority of these can be recognized, even in postmenopausal women, by the serum LH beta responses to TRH, and some can be recognized by the responses of serum FSH and LH. 
Experimental model of colon cancer: recurrences after surgery alone or associated with intraperitoneal 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. The liver is the most frequent site of metastases in colon cancer. No good animal model has been available to help improve the treatment of liver metastases or their prevention after resection of a primary colon cancer. The aim of this study was to develop a model of colon cancer induced by azoxymethane in the rat and to study the outcome after surgical resection alone or in association with intraperitoneal chemotherapy (5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Three hundred male Wistar rats received subcutaneous azoxymethane (10 mg/kg body weight/week) for 12 weeks. Eighty-three rats with isolated colon cancer underwent total colectomy; 40 of these rats with no metastases were randomized into two groups: surgery alone or surgery plus 5-FU (5 mg/kg body weight/day) for 5 days after surgery. Thirty rats were able to be evaluated. At autopsy, peritoneal carcinomatosis and liver metastases were more frequent in the control group than after adjuvant treatment with 5-FU (27.7 percent vs. 0, P less than 0.05; and 22.2 percent vs. 0, P less than 0.05, respectively). The rates of peritoneal and hepatic recurrence after resection of the primary cancer indicate that the model mimics the natural history of human colon cancer. In this model, 5-FU reduced the rate of peritoneal carcinomatosis and liver metastases but did not influence survival. 
New pathologic observations in juvenile onset parkinsonism with dystonia. A patient with hereditary juvenile onset parkinsonism with dystonia died at age 39. There were Lewy bodies and regionally selective neuronal damage in the substantia nigra pars compacta. These changes closely resemble those seen in Parkinson's disease, and emphasize the selective vulnerability of the ventral tier of the pars compacta in these degenerations. 
The role of the right hemisphere in emotional communication. Previous research has established that patients with right hemisphere damage (RHD) are impaired in the comprehension of emotional prosody and facial expression. There are several explanations for this impairment. It may reflect defective acoustic and visuospatial analysis, disruption of nonverbal communicative representations, or a disturbance in the comprehension of emotional meaning. In order to examine these hypotheses, we asked RHD patients, left hemisphere damaged patients (LHD) and normal controls (NC) to judge the emotional content of sentences describing nonverbal expressions, and sentences describing emotional situations. We found that RHD subjects performed normally in their ability to infer the emotion conveyed by sentences describing situations. However, RHD patients were impaired in relation to both LHD and NC in the capacity to judge the emotional content of sentences depicting facial, prosodic, and gestural expressions, suggesting a disruption of nonverbal communicative representations. 
Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver: assessment with contrast-enhanced TurboFLASH MR imaging. Twenty-two patients with 25 cases of focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) proved with pathologic study were imaged with a TurboFLASH (fast low angle shot) sequence combined with bolus administration of gadolinium tetraazacyclododecanetetraacetic acid (DOTA), spin-echo (SE) T2-weighted sequences, and postcontrast T1-weighted sequences. FNH-liver signal-difference-to-noise ratios were quantified; the features of the central scar were qualitatively analyzed. On SE T2-weighted images, all FNHs were hyperintense; in two cases the central scar exhibited a high signal intensity associated with hypointense areas corresponding to fibrous tissue within the branches of the scar. Unenhanced TurboFLASH images always demonstrated the FNHs as hypointense and always depicted the central scar as a hypointense area within the lesion. After bolus injection, arterial enhancement of FNH was clearly seen, and in 10 of 25 lesions, enhancement within the scar was seen 40-80 seconds after injection. Both unenhanced and enhanced TurboFLASH sequences produced the best signal-difference-to-noise ratios in comparison with T2-weighted images. 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy screening for asymptomatic colorectal disease in patients with and without inguinal hernia. Several studies have evaluated the diagnostic value of flexible sigmoidoscopy for screening asymptomatic patients before hernia repair. All have shown a 16% to 28% incidence of neoplastic (malignant or premalignant) lesions. None of these studies compared a similar group of asymptomatic patients without hernia to determine whether the incidence is increased in patients with hernias. We reviewed 87 consecutive cases of male surgical patients without hernia or any anorectal disease who had flexible sigmoidoscopy between June 1986 and December 1989 (group 1) and compared them with a group of hernia patients that we previously reported (group 2). Patients with stool positive for occult blood were excluded from this study. Examinations in both groups were done under the direct supervision of an attending surgeon (W.W., C.S.C., or J.K.). No significant difference was noted between group 1 and group 2 in mean age (mean 65.6 vs 59.7 years), rate of normal findings (68% vs 63%), and incidence of neoplastic lesions (14% vs 22%). All patients tolerated the procedure well, and there were no complications. 
Inhibition of neutral endopeptidase (EC 3.4.24.11) leads to an atrial natriuretic factor-mediated natriuretic, diuretic and antihypertensive response in rodents. 1. Atrial natriuretic factor is metabolized by neutral endopeptidase (atriopeptidase; EC 3.4.24.11) in vitro. Inhibitors of this enzyme have been reported to prolong the half-life of atrial natriuretic factor in vivo and to potentiate the renal and haemodynamic effects of exogenous atrial natriuretic factor. 2. (+/-)-Candoxatrilat, a selective neutral endopeptidase inhibitor, potentiated the natriuretic and diuretic response to volume loading in anaesthetized rats. Part of the response to volume loading and the potentiation by (+/-)-candoxatrilat was prevented by a polyclonal atrial natriuretic factor antiserum. The diuretic and natriuretic responses evoked by hydrochlorothiazide were not altered by the antiserum. 3. (+/-)-Candoxatrilat reduced systolic blood pressure of one-kidney deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertensive rats for over 5 h. This response was abolished by pretreatment with atrial natriuretic factor antiserum. 4. These data demonstrate that the neutral endopeptidase inhibitor (+/-)-candoxatrilat has natriuretic/diuretic and antihypertensive effects in rodents, and that these effects are mediated via endogenous atrial natriuretic factor. 
Clinical use of ultrasound biomicroscopy. The authors have developed a method of obtaining images of cross-sections of the intact anterior globe at microscopic resolution. High-frequency ultrasound transducers (50-100 MHz) have been developed and incorporated into a clinical B-scan device capable of producing images in the living human eye to a depth of approximately 4 mm at an axial and lateral resolution approaching 20 microns. Clinical use of this instrument is no more difficult than conventional immersion ultrasonography. The authors' results in a series of 14 clinical cases have shown that this method can provide information unavailable from any other imaging technique. Anterior segment tumors difficult to define with conventional ultrasound can be measured and the extent of invasion determined. Differentiation of tissue on the basis of internal acoustic characteristics is aided by the very fine backscatter speckle patterns at these frequencies. Pathology behind anterior segment opacities can be imaged in detail and the ability to image angle structures in cross-section allows a new quantitative method of gonioscopy. The ability to define the relationship of the iris, posterior chamber, zonules, ciliary body, and lens is potentially helpful in understanding mechanisms of glaucoma. Ocular structures can be measured with increased accuracy. Clinical ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM) has shown significant potential as an aid in diagnoses of ocular disease. 
Multicenter comparison of once- and twice-daily isradipine to hydrochlorothiazide for the treatment of hypertension in elderly patients. After 8 weeks of isradipine, a twice-a-day dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, 49% of elderly patients showed a complete response (sitting diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 85 mm Hg) and 36% showed a partial response (sitting diastolic blood pressure decrease greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg) for an 85% total response rate. Hydrochlorothiazide gave a complete response in 36% of the patients and a partial response in 33%, for a 69% total response rate (p less than 0.0046). Because elderly subjects have reduced clearance for many drugs, we determined how those who responded to twice-a-day administration would respond to once-a-day administration. After 4 weeks of isradipine administered once a day, 54% of the patients showed a complete or partial response, whereas 38% of the patients who were changed to placebo showed a response. In contrast, 82% of patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide once a day showed a response, whereas 60% of patients who were changed to placebo showed a response. These data indicate that the standard formulation of isradipine was not effective when administered once a day. 
Tuberculous bronchial stenosis: CT findings in 28 cases. Bronchial stenosis is a complication of tuberculous parenchymal or lymph node disease and may adversely affect its treatment. Findings on plain radiographs may be nonspecific or simulate malignancy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of CT in diagnosing this abnormality. We reviewed the findings in 28 patients who underwent CT to evaluate bronchial stenosis proved by bronchoscopy. Eighteen had evidence of tuberculosis on bronchial biopsy. In the other 10 the biopsy findings were nonspecific, but tuberculous lesions were elsewhere in the thorax. Twelve patients (43%) had CT findings of concentric bronchial stenosis, uniform thickening of the bronchial wall, and involvement of a long segment of the bronchi. In 14 patients (50%), CT showed obliteration of bronchial outlines by adjacent lymphadenopathy, parenchymal consolidation, and absence of intraluminal air. In two patients, the abnormality was not visible on CT. Our experience shows that CT is useful for identifying bronchial stenosis caused by tuberculosis. However, the findings vary, and in more than half of the patients concentric narrowing and uniform thickening of the bronchi are not seen. 
Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of focal computed tomography abnormality in epilepsy. Sixty-seven patients with epilepsy and isolated enhancing computed tomography (CT) scan lesion were studied with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Fifty-six patients (83.5%) had partial seizures and 11 (16.4%) had generalized seizures. Four distinct groups were identified by MRI: nonspecific 16 cases (23.8%), tuberculoma 38 cases (56.7%), cysticercosis 12 cases (17.9%), and abscess 1 case (1.4%). Patients in the non-specific group had lesions that were hyperintense on T2 images and hypointense or isointense on T1 images. Such lesions resolved completely in 5 months with serial MRIs while the patients were receiving antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Virologic studies, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) serology, are suggested for patients with such MRI lesions. 
Differences in hypertension prevalence among U.S. black and white women of childbearing age. Hypertension and its sequelae complicate pregnancy and can result in poor perinatal outcomes. Overall, U.S. blacks are more likely to be hypertensive than whites, but the degree to which this is true among women of childbearing age (including teenagers) is unknown. Using data from the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II), the authors describe hypertension prevalence rates for 422 black and 2,700 white reproductive-age women. The authors present observed data and also predicted prevalence rates derived by modeling the odds of hypertension using logistic regression statistical techniques. They find that black-white differences in hypertension prevalence are negligible among teenagers, but they are pronounced in the older reproductive ages. They estimate that twice the proportion of black women relative to white are hypertensive during pregnancy. Their results suggest that differential rates of hypertension between black and white women may contribute to the persistent excess infant mortality among blacks, but conclusive results cannot be determined from these data. These data are also valuable for the design and evaluation of screening, intervention, and followup programs for hypertensive disease among young women. 
Early difference in the endocrine profile of long and short lactational amenorrhea. The endocrine profiles associated with long and short lactational amenorrhea were assessed in a longitudinal study in which morning blood samples were drawn in 48 women from the first postpartum month until the recovery of ovulation and in a cross-sectional study in which the samples were drawn throughout 24 h at the end of the third postpartum month in 10 fully nursing and amenorrheic women. PRL, LH, FSH, estradiol (E2), progesterone, cortisol, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate were measured. In both studies we detected a smaller PRL increase in response to suckling (P less than 0.001) and higher E2 levels (P less than 0.001) in nursing women who ovulated within 6 months postpartum compared to those in women who did not. Such differences were observed early after delivery when all women were fully nursing and amenorrheic. These results suggest some probable sources of variability in the duration of lactational amenorrhea in our population. The greater PRL response to suckling associated with longer amenorrhea may be due to higher sensitivity of the breast-hypothalamus-pituitary system or a stronger suckling stimulus in this group. Differences in plasma E2 levels between longer and shorter periods of amenorrhea may reflect dissimilar endogenous production, intake, or clearance of estrogens. 
Evaluating quality, cost-effective health care. Vascular database predicated on hospital discharge abstracts. This population-based study examines all carotid endarterectomies (CE) performed by all surgeons in a single state over a 10-year period. The methodology is designed to determine morbidity rate, mortality rate, cost, and length of stay, as well as to understand the effect of pre-existing chronic disease, physician, and hospital volume on these outcome variables. The data source consisted of hospital discharge abstract data uniformly collected on all admissions (N = 5.9 million) to acute care hospitals in the state. In the decade 1979 to 1988, 11,199 patients underwent CE. Mortality rate from CE was 2.1%, and the postoperative stroke rate was 3.7% over this period. High physician volume decreased the mortality rate (p less than 0.05) and stroke rate (p less than 0.01) by 50% and significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced hospital cost and length of stay independent of patient complexity. Examination of cost data, adjusted for inflation, showed a decrease in mean cost for CE over the decade. Thus physicians are providing better care for less hospital dollars. Both patient and payor outcome is improved by concentrating CE patients in the hands of high-volume surgeons. Although the data suggests this trend is already evolving, the pace of this evolution can be expected to increase as payors recognize that regionalization of this procedure lowers costs. 
Chronic periaortitis presenting as common bile duct obstruction. The case of a 67 year old woman is reported who presented with cholestatic jaundice and was found to have, in addition, an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Only at necropsy did histopathology show chronic periaortitis as the aetiology of a pancreatic head mass which, during life, mimicked a pancreatic neoplasm obstructing the bile and pancreatic ducts. 
Artificial liver. State of the art. If an effective hepatic assist system existed, it could serve as a bridge to transplantation. Most of the patients waiting for liver transplantation have chronic liver insufficiency but are not in hepatic coma. Various hepatic assist systems have been used to salvage patients with acute liver insufficiency. Most attempts have been disappointing. The methods used have included plasma exchange, plasma adsorption, double filtration, cryofiltration, thermofiltration, the combination of plasma exchange and amino acid hemodialysis, and others. For patients with chronic liver disease with moderate liver function impairment and limited to one or only a few areas of metabolic abnormality, a hepatic assist might allow the life of the patient to be maintained temporarily. The application of hepatic assist methods for chronic liver disease patients treated at the Cleveland Clinic has been encouraging. One of the patients who suffered from sclerosing cholangitis has maintained a near-normal life for almost five years by 170 plasma treatments. This is in spite of the fact that, at the onset of treatment, the patient was nearly comatose. Unfortunately, this patient did not wish to receive a liver transplantation. Based upon this experience, the concept of a bridge to transplantation approach to hepatic assist devices appears feasible. In addition, it is speculated that hepatic assistance during the early recovery stage of liver transplantation and during mild episodes of rejection may be useful. 
Concomitant lymphangioma and arteriovenous malformation of the orbit. An 8-year-old girl had an orbital-adnexal lymphangioma and ipsilateral orbital and middle cranial fossa arteriovenous malformations. High-resolution magnetic resonance image scanning, orbital ultrasonography, and digital subtraction angiography were used for diagnosis and preoperative assessment. Complications related to this vascular neoplasm included amblyopia, acute hemorrhage with proptosis, exposure keratitis, cosmetic deformity, and recurrent preseptal cellulitis. The girl was treated with both embolization and orbital surgery for recurrent hemorrhage and proptosis. We postulated that the coexistence of a lymphangioma and arteriovenous malformation represents an unusual and extensive maldevelopment of vascular embryogenesis. 
Sarcoma in Paget disease of bone: clinical, radiologic, and pathologic features in 22 cases. The clinical, radiologic, and histologic features of 22 cases of Paget sarcoma were reviewed to determine in which patients with Paget disease these tumors are most likely to develop and what radiologic findings suggest the diagnosis. Clinical findings at presentation included pain and/or a mass (11 patients), pathologic fracture (seven), and neurologic symptoms (four). Survival time in 20 patients ranged from 5 days to 2.5 years. Two patients were lost to follow-up: one at 2 years and one at 8 years. There were 16 high-grade osteosarcomas, three chondrosarcomas, two fibrosarcomas, and one malignant fibrous histiocytoma. The most common site was the femur. Tumors also were observed in unusual sites. In one case of multifocal osteosarcoma, the tumor involved only pagetic bone. In 15 patients, Paget disease was polyostotic, clinically significant, and had been documented previously. In four patients, a sarcoma developed near the site of a fracture that had occurred between 2 months and 15 years previously. All cases showed radiologic evidence of a destructive lesion; other findings included a mass and evidence of tumor mineralization. Periosteal reaction was not observed. All but one tumor developed in a site of osteoblastic or mixed osteoblastic and lytic Paget disease. Our results suggest that sarcomas can develop in any part of any bone affected by Paget disease but are more likely to occur with advanced disease and to present with a destructive lesion without periosteal reaction. 
Determination of the c-MYC DNA-binding site. The carboxyl terminus of the protein encoded by the c-MYC protooncogene has similarity to the helix-loop-helix family of DNA-binding proteins and recognizes a six-nucleotide-long DNA sequence. We have used in vitro-translated c-MYC protein to further define its DNA-binding specificity. The hexanucleotide originally identified is necessary for DNA binding by c-MYC, but not sufficient; the c-MYC target site is a 12-nucleotide-long palindrome. This site is present within regulatory regions of genes that are expressed during cell growth. Point mutations within the helix-loop-helix motif of c-MYC abolish DNA-binding and transforming activities, indicating that c-MYC acts as a DNA-binding protein to transform cells. c-MYC may transform cells by activating transcription of genes required for cell division. 
Clinical and inflammatory responses to exogenous tachykinins in allergic rhinitis. Our purpose was to characterize the tachykinin receptor type involved in nasal obstruction to exogenous substance P in rhinitic patients. We also attempted to assess biochemical and cellular events associated with this response. Nasal challenges were performed in seven patients with allergic rhinitis. They received increasing doses (10 to 80 nmol) of substance P, of neurokinin A, of the N-terminal fragment of substance P, substance P(1-9), and of saline on 4 different days separated by 14 days. Nasal airway resistance (NAR) increased in a dose-dependent manner on substance P. Maximal increase reached 4.5-fold basal NAR. Response to neurokinin A was significantly lower (less than 2-fold basal NAR). No effect was observed on substance P(1-9) and saline. This order of activity [substance P much greater than neurokinin A greater than substance P(1-9) = saline] indicates an NK1 receptor-mediated mechanism inducing local vasodilation. No histamine release was found after any of the four challenges. Proteins significantly increased in nasal lavage fluid on both substance P and neurokinin A, whereas substance P(1-9) and saline had no effect. The percentage of albumin increased in nasal lavage fluid from 30 to 50% of total proteins on substance P and neurokinin A, indicating microvascular leakage. Polymorphonuclear cells significantly increased from 9 to 36% on substance P, from 13 to 49% on neurokinin A, and from 13 to 55% on substance P(1-9). Eosinophils increased in five patients on substance P (from 0.1 to 5% for the group), in three patients after neurokinin A, and in two after substance P(1-9). 
Laser treatment of benign cutaneous vascular lesions. Benign cutaneous vascular lesions have been treated with a wide array of modalities. Lasers are a comparatively new form of treatment for cutaneous blood vessel abnormalities. Initially, results following laser treatment were disappointing, primarily because of widespread thermal injury to surrounding normal tissue. Recent developments in laser technology and the introduction of the tunable dye laser offer the ability to selectively target laser energy at specific chromophores such as oxyhemoglobin. The technique of selective photothermolysis provides successful treatment of benign vascular lesions with minimal damage to adjacent structures. 
Excessive sweating: an uncommon sign of basilar artery occlusion. Excessive sweating of the face and, to a lesser degree, of the thorax and limbs, occurred after basilar artery occlusion in a 15 year old Saudi boy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a limited bilateral paramedian infarction of the rostral ventral pons. Basilar artery occlusion in children and adolescents is a rarity. Excessive sweating following such a stroke is rare in any age group. Clinico-anatomical correlations are discussed. 
Twelve-lead electrocardiographic evaluation of ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and its correlation with acute reocclusion. The sensitivity of the surface 12-lead electrocardiogram and that of standard (limb-lead) monitoring for the detection of ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were compared in 115 patients. The purpose was to identify the electrocardiographic leads that provide the most sensitive indicators of coronary ischemia during percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty and to evaluate the "ischemic fingerprint" that is obtained with 12-lead electrocardiogram during balloon inflation as a predictor of abrupt reocclusion after successful percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty procedures. During balloon inflations of 30 seconds, ischemia was detected in 61 of 145 vessels (42%) by limb-lead monitoring alone versus 130 of 145 vessels (90%) by 12-lead electrocardiography (p less than or equal to 0.001). In the nine patients (7.8%) who experienced abrupt reocclusion within 24 hours, the electrocardiogram during chest pain after percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty was identical to that obtained during percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty ("ischemic fingerprint"). None of the six patients who had chest pain after percutaneous transaluminal coronary angioplasty without evidence of abrupt reocclusion reproduced their ischemic fingerprint. The suggested optimal leads for monitoring ischemia are as follows: left anterior descending coronary artery, V2, and V3; circumflex artery, V2, and V3; and right coronary artery, III and aVF. 
Schwannoma of the brachial plexus mimicking an apical lung tumor. Primary tumors of the brachial plexus are unusual. We describe a patient with a large schwannoma of the lower trunk of the brachial plexus that had the radiologic appearance of an apical lung mass. Use of a posterior subscapular approach as well as intraoperative nerve action potential recording permitted resection with spared function. 
Analysis of septic morbidity following gunshot wounds to the colon: the missile is an adjuvant for abscess. Over a 7-year period, 151 patients with gunshot wounds to the colon surviving beyond 24 hours were managed. The bullet was retained in the body in 66% and exited in 34%. Thirty-four (23%) developed major septic complications (diffuse peritonitis, 21%; intraperitoneal abscesses 24%; and extraperitoneal abdominal abscesses, 56%). The septic complication rate was 26% in the bullet-present group compared with 16% in the remainder (p less than 0.15). The increased septic rate in those with bullets present was the result of abscesses developing around the retained missile. That group with missile abscesses had a lesser degree of injury as measured by the abdominal trauma index compared with the other patients with septic complications (p less than 0.001). Fifteen (79%) of the 19 patients with missile and missile track abscesses had them develop in the psoas muscle. These abscesses occur by fecal contamination of the muscle following inoculation by the bullet, which passes through the large bowel. Computed tomography-guided and operative drainage tend to fail if the foreign body is not removed. Computed tomography-guided or operative drainage should be successful in draining missile track abscesses when the bullet has exited the patient. 
Pediatric approach to the diagnosis and management of otitis media. The diagnosis of otitis media is complicated by confusing terminology and a disease continuum with overlap between clinical entities. The patient's history often reveals determinants of otitis media chronicity and recurrence. Certain laboratory tests, including tympanocentesis for middle ear fluid culture, may be useful in treatment decisions. Although seven antimicrobial drugs are useful in treating acute otitis media, certain drugs are more useful in specific cases. There are several medical treatment options for chronic otitis media with effusion and for preventing recurrent acute otitis media. 
Prognostic implications of the localization of carcinoma in the head of the pancreas. Between 1974 and 1989, 411 patients with pathologically and anatomically proven carcinoma of the head of the pancreas underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). According to the localization of the tumor, these patients were divided into those with a cranially, centrally (periductally), caudally, or indeterminately localized tumor. In cranially localized tumors, extrahepatic metastases and vessel invasion were absent or resectable in 53% and 46%, respectively. The tumor was resectable in 41% of cases. If a patient with a cranially localized tumor could not be operated curatively for secondary reasons, the prognosis was better than for tumors with another localization. If there was unresectable vessel invasion and the tumor was not resectable, the 0% survival rate was reached at 33 months. Of the curatively operated patients, 26% were alive at 36 months after the start of complaints. Of the centrally or periductally localized tumors, there were no liver metastases in 73%. Extrahepatic metastases and vessel invasion were absent or resectable in 57% and 53%, respectively. The tumor was resectable in 48% of cases. If there was unresectable vessel invasion or the tumor was unresectable, the 0% survival rate was reached after 18 months. These tumors have maximal chances at curative resection. Of the curatively operated patients, 31% were alive at 36 months after the start of complaints. In caudally localized tumors, there were liver metastases in 59%, unresectable other abdominal metastases in 93%, unresectable vessel invasion in 91%, and the tumor was unresectable in 96%. In patients with an unresectable vessel invasion or an unresectable tumor, the 0% survival rate was reached after 33 months; 3% of these patients were operated curatively. Indeterminately localized tumors had liver metastases in 77%, unresectable extrahepatic metastases in 90%, unresectable vessel invasion in 95%, and the tumor was unresectable in 91%. Only one of the 44 patients (2%) could be operated curatively. 
Determinants of 2-year outcome after coronary angioplasty in patients with multivessel disease on the basis of comprehensive preprocedural evaluation. Implications for patient selection. The Multivessel Angioplasty Prognosis Study Group. BACKGROUND. To assess the likelihood of intermediate-term event-free survival (freedom from death, coronary artery bypass surgery, and myocardial infarction) in patients with multivessel coronary disease undergoing coronary angioplasty, 350 consecutive patients from four clinical sites were carefully evaluated and followed for 22 +/- 10 months. METHODS AND RESULTS. Eight clinical variables were evaluated at the clinical sites, and 23 angiographic variables describing the number, morphology, and topography of coronary stenoses were evaluated at a core angiographic laboratory. Most patients had Canadian Cardiovascular Society class III or IV angina (72%), two-vessel coronary disease (68%), and well-preserved left ventricular function (mean ejection fraction, 58 +/- 12%; range, 18-85%). Follow-up was complete in 99% of patients. At 2 years, event-free survival was 72%, overall survival was 96%, freedom from bypass surgery was 82%, and freedom from nonfatal myocardial infarction without surgery was 96%. Sequential Cox proportional hazards regression analyses allowing stepwise entry of variables prospectively coded as simple, as of intermediate complexity, or as complex found event-free survival to be independently predicted by low Canadian Cardiovascular Society angina class, no diabetes, no proximal left anterior descending stenoses, and the sum of stenosis simplified risk-territory scores of 15 or less. In the absence of class IV angina and these risk factors, 2-year event-free survival was 87% and overall survival was 100%. In the presence of two or more of these risk factors, event-free survival was less than 50%. CONCLUSIONS. Recognition of risk factors for poor long-term outcome in this setting may improve clinical decision making and provide a framework on which to base meaningful subgroup analyses in randomized trials assessing the efficacy of coronary angioplasty. 
Percutaneous biopsy of left adrenal masses: prevalence of pancreatitis after anterior approach. Acute pancreatitis is an unusual but recognized complication of percutaneous aspiration biopsy of the pancreas. As the pancreatic tail is located anterior to the left adrenal gland, percutaneous biopsy of a left adrenal mass via the anterior approach may result in needle passage through the tail of the pancreas with subsequent potential development of pancreatitis. To evaluate this risk, we retrospectively reviewed 48 CT-directed percutaneous aspiration biopsies of left adrenal masses done between 1984 and 1989 at two institutions. Positioning of the patient, the course of the needle, the number of needle passes, and the size of the needle were analyzed. Thirty-three (69%) of 48 biopsies of a left adrenal mass were performed by using the anterior approach. The pancreas was traversed by one or more needles in 32 of 33 cases. Biopsies were performed with 20- to 22-gauge needles, and the number of needle passes varied widely. The medical records of the 33 patients in whom the anterior approach was used also were reviewed for complications. Acute pancreatitis, which required 11-13 days of hospitalization, developed in two patients (6%). None of the other 31 patients suffered a complication. We conclude that the pancreatic tail is routinely traversed by the biopsy needle when biopsy of a left adrenal mass is done via the anterior approach and that severe acute pancreatitis can occur as a result. 
Effects of allergy and age on responses to salbutamol and ipratropium bromide in moderate asthma and chronic bronchitis. The bronchodilating responses to 400 micrograms salbutamol and 80 micrograms ipratropium bromide were studied in 188 patients with chronic bronchitis (n = 113) or asthma (n = 75) and mild to moderate airflow obstruction (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) above 50% but below 2 SD of predicted value) in a crossover study on two days a week apart. Both the patients with asthma and the patients with chronic bronchitis varied considerably in their responses to the salbutamol and the ipratropium bromide. The mean increase in FEV1 in the subjects with asthma was higher after salbutamol (0.371 or 18% of the prebronchodilator value) than after ipratropium bromide (0.26 1 or 13%). In chronic bronchitis there was no difference between the increase in FEV1 after salbutamol (0.161 or 7%) and after ipratropium bromide (0.191 or 8%). When patients were categorised into those with a better response to salbutamol 400 micrograms and those with a better response to ipratropium bromide 80 micrograms, patients with chronic bronchitis responded better in general to ipratropium bromide whereas asthmatic patients responded better to salbutamol. The response pattern was also related to allergy and age, allergic patients and patients under 60 being more likely to respond better to salbutamol 400 micrograms than non-allergic patients and older patients, who benefited more from ipratropium bromide 80 micrograms. The response pattern was not related to sex, smoking habits, lung function, bronchial reactivity, respiratory symptoms, or number of exacerbations during the preceding year. 
Cinematics and sticking of heart valves in pulsatile flow test. The aim of the project was to develop laboratory test devices for studies of the cinematics and sticking behaviour of technical valve protheses. The second step includes testing technical valves of different types and sizes under static and dynamic conditions. A force-deflection balance was developed in order to load valve rims by static radial forces until sticking or loss of a disc (sticking- and clamping-mould point) with computer-controlled force deflection curves. A second deflection device was developed and used for prosthetic valves in the aortic position of a pulsatile mock circulation loop with simultaneous video-cinematography. The stiffness of technical valve rims varied between 0.20 (St. Jude) and about 1.0 N/micron (metal rim valves). The stiffness decreased significantly with increasing valve size. Sticking under pulsatile flow conditions was in good agreement with the static deflection measurements. Hence, valve sticking with increasing danger of thrombus formation is more likely with a less stiff valve rim. In the case of forces acting perpendicularly to the pendulum axis, the clamping mould-point of the valve can be reached, followed by disc dislodgement. 
Erdheim-Chester disease. Case report with autopsy findings. Erdheim-Chester disease is a rare pathologic entity characterized by symmetrical radiodensities in the metaphyseal and the diaphyseal portions of the long bones. Fibrosis, osteoblastic cortical bone deposition, and fibroxanthomatous granulomas with lipid-laden macrophages and multinucleated giant cells, which have a particular tropism for connective and adipose tissues, are the pathologic hallmarks. To our knowledge, 27 cases have been reported in the literature since the entity was first described in 1930. Protean clinical features range from a focal and asymptomatic process to a multisystemic infiltrative disease. We describe the clinical course of a new case and review the extensive pathologic findings at autopsy, including those demonstrated by light and electron microscopy and cytochemical and immunocytochemical studies. 
5-lipoxygenase inhibitory activity of zileuton. Zileuton [N-(1-benzo[b]thien-2-ylethyl)-N-hydroxyure] inhibited 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid synthesis by rat basophilic leukemia cell 20,000 x g supernatant and rat polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) (IC50 = 0.5 and 0.3 microM) respectively. It also inhibited leukotriene (LT)B4 biosynthesis by rat PMNL (IC50 = 0.4 microM), human PMNL (IC50 = 0.4 microM) and human whole blood (IC50 = 0.9 microM). Inhibition of human PMNL LTB4 biosynthesis was removed readily by a simple wash procedure. At concentrations up to 100 microM, the compound produced little or no inhibition of several related enzymes, such as platelet 12-lipoxygenase, soybean and rabbit reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase and sheep seminal vesicle cyclooxygenase. At p.o. doses from 0.5 to 5 mg/kg in the dog, zileuton produced a rapid and sustained inhibition of ex vivo blood LTB4 biosynthesis which correlated with the pharmacokinetic behavior of the compound. In a similar ex vivo study in the rat, the compound displayed an p.o. ED50 of 2 mg/kg. Zileuton was highly effective in preventing 6-sulfidopeptide LT formation in the rat peritoneal cavity triggered by an antigen-antibody reaction with an ED50 of 3 mg/kg. In experimental models of inflammation, zileuton significantly reduced arachidonic-acid induced mouse ear edema (ED50 = 31 mg/kg) and also attenuated inflammatory cell accumulation in the rat pleural Arthus reaction. The effectiveness of this compound for preventing LT formation in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo suggests its utility for preventing the pathophysiological effects of the LTs and other 5-lipoxygenase products in animals and in humans. 
Long-term soft-tissue effects of biliary extracorporeal shock waves: an animal study. Although delayed effects of renal extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) have been reported, the long-term soft-tissue effects after biliary ESWL have not been investigated. We report soft-tissue effects seen up to 1 year after biliary extracorporeal shock waves were administered to 18 Yucatan pigs. The gallbladder received 4000 electromagnetic shock waves from a Siemens Lithostar overhead module. Blood samples were drawn from each pig for hematologic, coagulation, and biochemical profiles immediately before and then at prescribed time intervals after administration of shock waves. Autopsy and histopathologic examination of the gallbladder and surrounding organs were performed. Kidneys and adrenal glands also were examined in five pigs followed up for 1 year. There were no gross or microscopic abnormalities in 11 animals, including all five animals in the 1-year group in which kidneys and adrenal glands also were normal. One animal (3-week group) had two 2-mm foci of parenchymal necrosis in the right lobe of the liver, probably related to ischemia after shock-wave therapy. Transient rise in liver and pancreatic enzyme levels was seen in most animals after administration of shock waves. The levels returned to normal within 2 months in all but one animal. We conclude that biliary ESWL with the Lithostar Plus does not produce long-term histologic evidence of organ damage in Yucatan pigs. 
Thyroid cancer and multiple primary malignancies in Israel. The exact risk of multiple primary neoplasms in patients with thyroid cancer is difficult to ascertain from the data available in the literature. Three thousand seventy-two patients with thyroid cancer, listed in the Israel Cancer Registry during a 16-year time span, were studied to determine the true incidence of another primary cancer. Ninety-two cases were reported as having an additional primary cancer. The prevalence of multiple primary malignancies was 3%. The frequency was higher among patients of European rather than of Asian or African origin. The second primary cancers in order of decreasing frequency were of the breast, lung, colorectum, head and neck, and lymphoma/myeloma. Most of the deaths were due to the additional cancer. The 5-year survival rate was highest for head and neck and lowest for lung cancer patients. These results emphasize the need for greater awareness of the possibility of developing additional cancers, and indicate the need to incorporate strategies for the prevention, early detection, and treatment of multiple primary neoplasms. 
Active HSV-1 immunization prevents the cocarcinogenic activity of HSV-1 in the oral cavity of hamsters. Previous investigations have demonstrated that herpes simplex virus (HSV) increased the oral carcinogenic activity of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) probably by enhancing the DMBA-induced amplification and overexpression of c-erb-B-1 proto-oncogene in hamster buccal pouch epithelium. The present study investigated the effect of active type 1 HSV (HSV-1) immunization on the development of oral cancer induced by HSV-1 and DMBA, alone or in combination, in the hamster buccal pouch. The results were similar to our previous report in that HSV-1 significantly enhanced the oncogenic effect of DMBA, and the numbers of pouches harboring tumor nodules and the numbers and sizes of tumors developed by topical DMBA were significantly increased by HSV-1 inoculation to the site of the DMBA application. Although HSV-1 immunization did not alter the carcinogenic activity of DMBA in animals receiving topical DMBA in combination with mock inoculation, it prevented the cocarcinogenic effect of HSV-1 in animals receiving topical DMBA in conjunction with HSV-1 inoculation. These data indicate that active HSV-1 immunization completely obstructs the co-oncogenic effect of HSV-1 in the oral cavity of hamsters. 
Adrenal carcinoma presenting with postmenopausal vaginal bleeding. A 63-year-old woman presented with a 3-day history of vaginal bleeding. Pelvic examination and ultrasound revealed bilateral atrophy of the ovaries and a uterus of 8.8 x 3.3 x 4.0 cm. Serum estradiol (E2) was 300 pg/mL. Cushing syndrome was diagnosed biochemically, and computed tomography of the abdomen revealed a 5-cm left adrenal mass and tumors in the liver and lung. A pathologic diagnosis of metastatic adrenal carcinoma was made after surgery. This case demonstrates that adrenal carcinoma can produce high E2 levels in a postmenopausal woman, leading to uterine enlargement and vaginal bleeding. Adrenal carcinoma should therefore be included in the differential diagnosis of postmenopausal vaginal bleeding. 
Neurologically normal patients with suspected postpoliomyelitis syndrome: electromyographic assessment of past denervation. Patients with neurologic signs consistent with previous poliomyelitis have been shown to have electrodiagnostic evidence of widespread denervation, often in clinically normal muscles thought to have been uninvolved by poliomyelitis. Eight percent of patients seen in our postpoliomyelitis clinic had no abnormalities on neurologic examination or with conventional electrodiagnostic studies to corroborate history of poliomyelitis. Seventeen patients were studied, subtle electrodiagnostic evidence of denervation was sought. Measurements of fiber density and analysis of turns and amplitude showed no abnormalities in nine patients. Five patients had borderline elevated fiber density. Analysis of turns and amplitude showed mild neurogenic changes in two patients and borderline changes in three patients. These findings were disparate, with isolated abnormalities in individual muscles. It was concluded that (1) there is a group of patients whose histories of poliomyelitis are uncertain, and (2) the lack of clear evidence for previous denervation after extensive electrodiagnostic testing is a valid means for excluding the diagnosis of postpoliomyelitis syndrome. 
Complications of bladder neck suspension procedures. Typical genuine stress urinary incontinence is the result of an anatomic defect, with most procedures designed to restore the support of the proximal urethra and bladder neck. Complications associated with these procedures have been presented to help facilitate an understanding of their etiology and prevention. Careful attention to patient selection, history and physical examination, and surgical detail can prevent most of these complications. 
Pain causes in 200 patients referred to a multidisciplinary cancer pain clinic. Causes of pain were analysed in 200 patients referred to a specialized cancer pain clinic. Pain caused by tumour growth was found in 158 patients, pain secondary to cancer or its treatment in 116 patients and pain unrelated to cancer in 33 patients. Visceral involvement (74 cases), bone metastases (68 cases), soft tissue invasion (56 cases) and nerve/plexus pressure or infiltration (39 cases) were the most frequent causes of pain due to tumour growth. Myogenic pain (68 cases) was the most frequent cause of secondary pain. The patients presented with a multitude of different combinations of causes of pain, the majority having at least two separate causes. Since pain treatment in cancer patients should be determined by its aetiology, a detailed analysis of the pain condition in each patient should form the basis for a rational therapy. 
Deep venous thrombosis in the surgical intensive care unit. The ICU patient population is at a high risk for the development of deep venous thrombosis leading to a potentially fatal pulmonary embolism. It is vital to appreciate this risk and apply appropriate prophylaxis. Constant vigilance is required, as deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli can develop and progress despite standard prophylactic measures. In unstable patients, more aggressive prophylaxis may be warranted, including the use of inferior vena cava filters. A high index of suspicion and a low threshold for screening and diagnostic testing will allow earlier recognition and treatment of this lifethreatening condition. Treatment decisions are based on clinical suspicion, diagnostic examination results, and the potential complications of difficult treatment modalities. 
Hypopharyngeal lipoma as a cause for sudden asphyxial death. Lipomas of the hypopharynx are uncommon tumors that are rarely life threatening. When positioned in the hypopharynx, asphyxia may be the result of the tumor size or sudden displacement into the oropharynx. We present a case of a large hypopharyngeal lipoma, review the literature, and discuss mechanisms by which these lesions may cause sudden asphyxial death. 
Aortitis caused by Mycobacterium fortuitum. Aortic valve replacement was complicated by sternal wound infection with Mycobacterium fortuitum. The wound was treated with debridement and antibiotic therapy. Five months later the patient developed fever, and blood cultures yielded M fortuitum. At surgery, aortitis with pseudo-aneurysm formation was encountered. Mycobacterium fortuitum grew from the aortic lesion. This is the first report of M fortuitum causing aortitis, although this organism is known to infect sternal wounds and mediastinum. Mediastinal infection can progress despite a normal wound appearance. Its manifestations may be delayed and may include infections of the aorta as well as of the sternum and mediastinum. 
Acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma in children associated with afternoon weather changes. We studied the effect of the weather on acute exacerbations of bronchial asthma in children by comparing records of 8,657 admissions for five acute respiratory diseases (3,064 for asthma) with concurrent meteorologic data. These diseases were classified according to their interrelations and distinct meteorologic patterns into two groups: (1) acute asthma and acute laryngitis, which are correlated with the afternoon gradients of air temperature, heat content (the thermal energy of the ambient air), and modified heat content factor (the energy required to heat the air water vapor to the ambient temperature), but not correlated with the absolute values of air temperature and water content: and (2), bronchopneumonia/pneumonia and upper respiratory infections, which are correlated only with the absolute values of the meteorologic parameters (air temperature, water content, heat content, and modified heat content factor), but not with their afternoon gradients. Admissions for bronchiolitis revealed an age-related pattern: up to 1 yr they resembled Group 2 and from 1 to 2 yr, Group 1. It follows that the admission rates of acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma in childhood are linked both to the afternoon weather gradients and to some of the acute respiratory infections. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of central nervous system lesions in patients with lupus erythematosus. Correlation with clinical remission and antineurofilament and anticardiolipin antibody titers. Clinical, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and serologic studies were performed on 11 patients with diffuse central nervous system (CNS) systemic lupus erythematosus and 8 patients with focal CNS lupus. MRI of patients with diffuse clinical disease showed symmetrically distributed areas of increased signal intensity in the subcortical white matter; these resolved after treatment with high-dose methylprednisolone. These patients' sera contained elevated levels of antineurofilament antibodies. Patients with focal CNS lupus had areas of increased signal intensity and atrophic changes in regions corresponding to the major cerebral vessels. These MRI abnormalities did not improve after treatment with high-dose steroids. The sera of patients with focal CNS lupus had elevated levels of cardiolipin and lupus anticoagulant but normal levels of antineurofilament antibody. Our findings suggest that results of a combined clinical, MRI, and serologic evaluation of patients with CNS lupus may predict the response of patients to high-dose steroid therapy. 
Endemic giardiasis and municipal water supply. To test the hypothesis that endemic giardiasis may be transmitted by unfiltered municipal water supplies, the incidence of laboratory-confirmed giardiasis was studied in a natural experiment due to the arrangement of the public water supply of Dunedin, New Zealand. The incidence rate ratio was 3.3 (90% CI = 1.1, 10.1) for the population receiving unfiltered (microstrained) water relative to that using sand filtered water. In a parallel case-control study of incident cases, the odds ratio for giardiasis and unfiltered (microstrained) water supply was 1.8 (90% CI = 0.5, 6.9). 
Changes of zero-stress state of rat pulmonary arteries in hypoxic hypertension. Zero-stress state of the main pulmonary arteries, from the main trunk to a vessel with a lumen diameter approximately 60 microns, was determined in 25 normal control and 38 hypoxic pulmonary hypertensive rats. Pulmonary hypertension was induced by placing the rats in a hypoxic chamber with 10% O2-90% N2 at atmospheric pressure. The zero-stress state of each vessel was obtained by first cutting the vessel transversely into a series of rings and then cutting each ring radially, whereupon the ring opened into a sector, which is characterized by an opening angle defined as the angle subtended between two lines originating from the midpoint of the inner wall (endothelium) to the tips of the inner wall. Whereas the pulmonary blood pressure increased monotonically during the development of pulmonary hypertension, the opening angle followed a different course; e.g., the values (means +/- SD) of the opening angle at the pulmonary trunk at times 0 (control) and 2, 12, 28, 96, 144, 240, 480, and 720 h after exposure to hypoxia are, respectively, 294 +/- 30 degrees, 378 +/- 24 degrees, 385 +/- 12 degrees, 374 +/- 11 degrees, 246 +/- 63 degrees, 267 +/- 49 degrees, 193 +/- 19 degrees, 195 +/- 83 degrees, and 239 +/- 38 degrees. Trends at other places on the artery are similar, but the magnitudes differ. In this period of time, intimal edema and thickening were found. The intima media thickened rapidly from 48 to 240 h and then more slowly from 240 to 720 h. Adventitia thickened later; its thickness exceeded that of the intima media at approximately 96 h. Thus the changes of zero-stress state of the pulmonary arteries are seen to be related to the nonuniform remodeling of the vessel wall as revealed by the edema, blebs, and thickening of different layers. 
Metal wear and tissue response in failed titanium alloy total hip replacements. Thirteen total hip replacements with titanium alloy femoral components required revision for loosening at an average of two years after implantation. At revision the soft tissues around the implant were darkly stained and a proliferative membrane had invaded the cement-bone interface. The femoral components showed polishing of parts of their shot-blasted surfaces. Histology showed a fibroblastic reaction with abundant titanium lying free and within histiocytes, and a scanty foreign-body giant-cell reaction. Surface analysis of the removed femoral components and chemical analysis of the excised tissues is described. Tissue reaction in response to the metal-wear debris may have contributed to the early failure of these implants. 
Measurement of tumour protein synthesis in vivo in human colorectal and breast cancer and its variability in separate biopsies from the same tumour. 1. A method is described for measuring the rates of protein synthesis in vivo in human colorectal and breast tumours by the intravenous injection of L-[1-13C]leucine as a 'flooding dose'. 2. The incorporation of isotope into colorectal tumour protein was measured in six patients, whose tumours were biopsied after the injection. Fractional rates of protein synthesis were calculated from the enrichment of leucine in protein and the average free leucine enrichment in plasma. The range of rates obtained was 17.2-33.9%/day, with a mean rate (+/- SEM) of 22.5 +/- 2.6%/day. 3. Tumour protein synthesis rates were also measured in 15 patients with breast cancer. The range of rates obtained was 5.3-15.9%/day, with a mean rate (+/- SEM) of 10.3 +/- 0.8%/day. These rates are significantly lower than those obtained with colorectal tumours (P less than 0.001). 4. In 9 of the breast cancer patients, protein synthesis was measured in multiple random biopsies taken from the same tumour. The mean (+/- SEM) difference between the highest and lowest rates in biopsies from the same tumour was only 1.1 +/- 0.3%/day. Only 13% of the variation in protein synthesis between separate tumours could be explained by sampling error because of variation within the tumour itself, the remainder being genuine variation between individual tumours. 
Germ-line deletions of mtDNA in mitochondrial myopathy. mtDNA encodes subunits of the electron transport chain and is exclusively maternally inherited in mammals. It has been suggested that mtDNA might be the site of some of the mutations causing a group of human disorders called the "mitochondrial myopathies," because these may both be (1) accompanied by defects in the electron transport chain and (2) display a maternal pattern of inheritance. However, all of the deletions and duplications of mtDNA which occur in these patients have been sporadic, apart from families in whom affected members all carry different deletions suggesting a mutant autosomal dominantly inherited nuclear gene with de novo deletions in each individual. We present the first evidence for the presence of deleted mtDNAs in the germ line in these disorders. The patient carries a higher level of deleted mtDNAs than do his relatives, corresponding to severity of symptoms and consistent with a predicted dosage effect. "Selfishness" of deleted mtDNAs is probably one of the factors over and above random segregation of a small number of "founder" mtDNAs (the bottleneck hypothesis) which may be invoked to explain the usual distribution of mtDNAs in different tissues of patients with mtDNA deletions. 
Actuarial analysis of the occurrence of remissions following thymectomy for myasthenia gravis in 400 patients. The role of thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis (MG) was analysed in 400 patients affected with generalised MG operated on between 1974-83, and prospectively followed up for five years after surgery. The occurrence of stable remission (SR) (that is, complete clinical drug-free remission that remains stable for all the subsequent follow up) was the endpoint of survival analyses and the distribution of SR time (SRT, that is, the interval from thymectomy to the occurrence of SR) was assessed by actuarial and Cox multivariate analyses. SRT distribution after surgery showed a slow progressive increase of cumulative SR rate that could both be ascribed to a delayed effect of thymectomy as well as reflect the natural history of MG, itself characterised by an increasing probability of spontaneous remission with time. SRT distribution was similar after stratification for all variables studied except when patients without thymoma were stratified for the need for immunosuppressive treatment in addition to thymectomy. Patients without thymoma who did not require additional immunosuppressive therapy (n = 130) had the highest SR rate occurring in the two years after thymectomy, and differed from patients treated with immunosuppressive drugs who showed the highest SR rate five years after surgery. Actuarial analysis has therefore identified a subgroup of patients where SR, occurring in the first years after surgery, is more likely to be ascribed to thymectomy than merely reflect the natural course of the disease. 
Impact of blood pressure and antihypertensive treatment on incipient and overt nephropathy, retinopathy, and endothelial permeability in diabetes mellitus. Diabetic nephropathy is the main cause of the increased morbidity and mortality in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients. Elevated blood pressure accelerates and effective blood pressure reduction with beta-blockers and/or angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors delays the progression of nephropathy and reduces albuminuria. All previous reports dealing with the natural history of diabetic nephropathy demonstrated a cumulative death rate between 50 and 77% 10 yr after onset of nephropathy. Effective antihypertensive treatment reduced the cumulative death rate to 15-20% 10 yr after onset of nephropathy. Recent randomized control studies indicate that ACE inhibition may delay and even prevent the development of diabetic nephropathy in normotensive IDDM patients with persistent microalbuminuria. Several cross-sectional and prospective studies suggest an association between elevated blood pressure and the development and progression of diabetic retinopathy. Furthermore, carotid insufficiency or other causes of unilaterally or bilaterally reduced retinal blood flow (pressure) diminish the development of diabetic retinopathy. Diabetic retinopathy is characterized by abnormal leakage of fluorescein through the blood-retinal barrier, an abnormality that can be reversed during antihypertensive treatment. It is well documented that elevated blood pressure, poor metabolic control, and diabetic microangiopathy independently enhance the endothelial leakage of plasma proteins in diabetes mellitus. A link between capillary hypertension, increased extravasation of plasma proteins, and the development and progression of diabetic microangiopathy has been suggested. Blood pressure reduction diminishes the extravasation of plasma proteins. The above results strongly support the case for early and effective treatment of arterial blood pressure elevation in diabetes. 
Successful radioimmunotherapy for lung metastasis of human colonic cancer in nude mice. The potential for radioimmunotherapy as an adjuvant treatment for early disseminated colonic cancer was investigated in an experimental lung metastasis model. Nude mice receiving intravenous injection with a suspension of human colonic cancer cells (GW-39) developed multiple (10-100) tumor nodules throughout the lungs, and more than 50% of the animals died of extensive tumor involvement within 5-10 weeks. Groups of eight or nine animals bearing 7-day-old tumor transplants were treated with a single intravenous injection of radioiodinated agents: either 0.15 or 0.30 mCi of whole IgG of the NP-4 murine monoclonal antibody (MAb) against carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) or 0.15 or 0.30 mCi of whole IgG of Immu-31, an anti-alpha-fetoprotein (anti-AFP) MAb. Treatment of animals with 0.15 or 0.30 mCi of 131I-labeled NP-4 IgG 7 days after injection of tumor cells resulted in survival for 23 weeks after tumor implantation in four of eight and seven of nine animals, respectively. Microscopic examination revealed that over 90% of the lung tumor colonies had no evidence of surviving cells. Animals treated with 0.30 mCi of anti-AFP, an irrelevant MAb, survived 4 weeks longer than controls. Toxicity was evident in four of the 17 animals given 0.30 mCi of NP-4 IgG (specific) or anti-AFP IgG (irrelevant) MAb. These animals died within 1-3 weeks after radioantibody injection, suggesting that death was related to the radiation dose. None of the animals given 0.15 mCi of 131I-MAb died within this period. 
Differential pathophysiology of bacterial translocation after thermal injury and sepsis. Bacterial translocation (BT) occurs transiently after thermal injury and may result from an ischemic intestinal insult. To evaluate continued intestinal ischemia in the ongoing BT associated with sepsis after injury, rats were randomized to (1) 30% burn injury with Pseudomonas wound infection (BI), (2) BI + fluid resuscitation (BI + Fluid), (3) BI after allopurinol pretreatment to inhibit xanthine oxidase (BI + Allo), or (4) BI after azapropazone pretreatment to inhibit neutrophil degranulation (BI + Aza). On postburn days (PBD) 1, 4, and 7, animals were studied for evidence of BT and intestinal lipid peroxidation. BI + Fluid, BI + Allo, and BI + Aza significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced rates of BT and ileal lipid peroxidation acutely after thermal injury (PBD 1) compared to BI. All four groups had equally high rates of BT associated with the onset of sepsis (PBDs 4 and 7), without evidence of further intestinal lipid peroxidation. These data indicate that the chronic gut barrier failure associated with sepsis after injury occurs independently of continued intestinal ischemia. 
Intestinal ischemia associated with cardio-pulmonary-bypass surgery: a life threatening complication. Intestinal ischemia following open heart surgery is rare but nevertheless extremely dangerous and the causes are still unclear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the factors influencing the occurrence and outcome of patients with this complication. At our institution between 1985 and 1989 1712 patients underwent open heart surgery and 4 female patients suffered from intestinal ischemia. The early mortality was 2.5% for the whole group and 100% for the group with intestinal ischemia. All these 4 patients were elderly and had a history of hypertension and hyperlipoproteinemia. Three of the four patients with intestinal ischemia had various risk factors for thromboembolic events such as pre-existing occlusive arterial disease and cardiac dysrhythmias or had a complicated postoperative course. In two patients an enormous increase in serum lactate to over 10 mmol/l occurred prior to the intestinal ischemia. We therefore consider advancing age, female gender and a susceptibility for thromboembolic events as important risk factors for the development of intestinal ischemia. A serum lactate over 10 mmol/l should lead to an aggressive diagnostic and therapeutic approach including exploratory laparotomy. 
Non-invasive assessment of perioperative myocardial cell damage by circulating cardiac troponin T. Troponin T is a unique cardiac antigen which is continuously released from infarcting myocardium. Its cardiospecificity as a marker protein might be particularly useful in assessing myocardial cell damage in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Therefore, circulating troponin T was measured in serial blood samples from 56 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and in two control groups--22 patients undergoing minor orthopaedic surgery and 12 patients undergoing lung surgery by median sternotomy. In both control groups no troponin T could be detected, whereas activities of creatine kinase were raised in all 12 lung surgery controls and activities of the MB isoenzyme were raised in five of the 12 patients in the lung surgery group and in four of the 22 patients in the orthopaedic surgery group, respectively. All the patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 47) and cardiac surgery for other reasons (n = 9) had detectable concentrations of troponin T. Five patients had perioperative myocardial infarction detected as new Q waves and R wave reductions. In these five patients troponin T release persisted and serum concentrations (5.5-23 micrograms/l) reached a peak on the fourth postoperative day. In the 51 patients without perioperative myocardial infarction serum concentrations and the release kinetics of troponin T depended on the duration of cardiac arrest. In patients in whom aortic cross clamping was short troponin T increased slightly on the first postoperative days; in patients with longer periods of aortic cross clamping troponin T concentrations were higher and remained so beyond the fifth postoperative day. 
Development of sustained achlorhydria in a patient with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated with omeprazole. Spontaneous remission of gastric acid hypersecretion in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome occurs rarely. This study shows the development of gastric secretory mucosal atrophy resulting in achlorhydria and loss of pepsin secretion in a 63-year-old woman with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Reduced secretion began soon after starting treatment with omeprazole, and achlorhydria became complete 6 months later. The patient remains well with normal endoscopy results and is achlorhydric 4 years after the start of treatment and 34 months after stopping omeprazole. She was not colonized with Helicobacter pylori until 36 months after developing achlorhydria. Serum gastrin has increased from 1000 to between 5000 and 12,500 ng/L (pg/mL), was not suppressible by gastric acidification, and was not associated with G-cell hyperplasia. She also has a normal Schilling test and normal immunoglobulins, and lacks antibodies to parietal cells or H+, K(+)-ATPase. Moderate enterochromaffinlike cell hyperplasia is apparent for the first time on the latest biopsy sample. 
Tumor-infiltrating CD3- NK cells are more effective than CD3+ T cells in killing autologous melanoma cells. We have studied the phenotype and functional activity of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) derived from eight human melanomas cultured for up to 60 d in the presence of recombinant IL-2. In the early period of the cultures, TIL were predominantly T cells of CD8+ phenotype and contained 10-30% of CD3- cells. Four of the five early TIL cultures tested in a cytotoxicity assay displayed a degree of MHC-unrestricted lysis on a series of autologous and allogenic melanoma cell lines as well as the K562 natural killer-sensitive target. With longer periods of time in culture, all TIL lines showed a decrease in lytic activity that was associated with the loss of CD3- cells. Thus, most of the killing of short-term TIL cultures appeared to be mediated by CD3- natural killer cells, whereas CD3+ T cells were found to be weak anti-tumor effectors. Even though the CD3+ T cells were not cytotoxic on K562 targets, their lytic activity (even weak) against melanoma cells appeared to be non-MHC restricted, and was blocked by anti-CD3 antibodies. In addition, cytotoxicity of the CD3+ TIL cultures was compared to that of a CD3-/NKH1+ cell line purified from peripheral blood. It was found that natural killer cells were much more potent than CD3+ TIL on the melanoma cell lines tested. 
Mycotic aortic aneurysm infected by Clostridium septicum--a case history. The authors describe a sixty-seven-year-old hypertensive, diabetic man with a mycotic abdominal aortic aneurysm infected with Clostridium septicum. The patient had colonic polyps but no malignant disease. They could find only one other report of a mycotic aneurysm infected with C. septicum. In that case, as in most other cases of C. septicum bacteremia, the patient had gastrointestinal cancer. Their case suggests that treatment for a clostridial infection should be considered in patients with known gastrointestinal disease, signs and symptoms of sepsis, and abdominal pain. Conversely, patients known to have a C. septicum infection should be evaluated for gastrointestinal lesions. 
Oncogene expression in the liver tissue of patients with nonneoplastic liver disease. The expression of cellular oncogenes in nonneoplastic human liver tissue was examined to determine if there was a correlation between oncogene expression and physiologic regeneration in liver disease. Human liver tissue specimens from 70 patients with various histologic findings from almost normal to cirrhosis were examined (using northern blot analysis) for the expression of nine cellular oncogenes. With c-K-ras, four RNA bands (5.6-kilobase [kb], 2.1-kb, 1.5-kb, and 1.2-kb RNA species) were detected in all liver tissue examined. Expression of c-fos was also detected in a few samples examined when 50-micrograms samples of total RNA were applied. Other oncogenes such as H-ras, myc, erbB, raf, fms, fes, and myb were not detected. These results indicate that particular oncogene(s) may not be highly expressed during liver regeneration in human liver disease, or that populations of regenerating hepatocytes may be too small to show significant elevations of oncogene expression. The new finding of a constant expression of c-K-ras in human liver tissue suggests that it is linked to essential hepatocellular function rather than carcinogenesis. 
Ischemic colitis associated with dextroamphetamine use. Ischemic colitis can be caused by a variety of medications including a number of sympathomimetic agents. We report the case of a 47-year-old narcoleptic man who had abdominal pain and rectal bleeding. The clinical, radiographic, and histologic findings supported the diagnosis of ischemic colitis associated with oral dextroamphetamine use. 
Inflammatory complications following penetrating cardiac trauma. Two cases with pericardial and myocardial inflammatory complications following penetrating cardiac trauma are presented. A high index of suspicion with liberal usage of echocardiography, serial electrocardiograms, and careful patient follow-up will preclude this diagnostic oversight. 
Extramedullary blast crisis in chronic myelogenous leukemia. Demonstration of T-cell lineage and Philadelphia chromosome in a paraspinal tumor. A case of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) with penetrance of the Ph1 molecular alteration into the T-cell lineage of a paraspinal tumor is reported. The T-cell nature of the paraspinal tumor was documented by immunochemical study and genotyping. The Philadelphia chromosome was also detected by genotyping in the same tumor cell population. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first case of extramedullary T-cell blast crisis in CML demonstrated in an extranodal tumor. The clinical significance of detecting extramedullary blast crisis, and the theories for the scarcity of T-cell transformation in CML are discussed. 
Heterotopic bone formation in thermal burns. Heterotopic bone is a rare complication of burns. The factors to be considered in its development are the percentage of burn, the location of burn, the length of bed confinement, osteoporosis, superimposed trauma, and genetic predisposition. Characteristically, heterotopic bone develops between one and three months after the acute burn. It may continue to proliferate as long as there are open wounds but it tends to regress once the burn wound has healed. If it has bridged a joint it may be surgically excised after the burn has healed. The more extensive the heterotopic bone the poorer the prognosis for restoration of motion after excision. Prevention of heterotopic bone appears to be linked in part to early mobilization of the patient and recovery from the postburn hypermetabolic and catabolic state. 
Economic considerations that influence health policy and research. Cardiovascular conditions account for more medical costs than any other diagnostic category in the United States. Increasingly, economic constraints will shape policy related to health care and research. Hypertension is the most common cardiovascular condition, and despite low unit health care costs, the aggregate costs are considerable. However, the unit and aggregate costs of the complications of hypertension are fourfold greater and, in this economic perspective, aggressive approaches are warranted to prevent complications. Treatment and research strategies should be identified that could have considerable potential economic impact. Several strategies are suggested as a prospective guide to policy development. Economic considerations will be important and should be incorporated in the planning of hypertension care and research. 
Peptic ulcer disease: absence of antibodies stimulating the histamine sensitive adenylate cyclase of gastric mucosal cells. The possible presence of parietal cell stimulating antibodies was examined in sera from 57 patients with relapsing ulcer disease. The sera were obtained at the time of symptomatic relapse and all patients had ulcers confirmed by endoscopy. A sensitive assay based on adenosine 3':5' cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) production in isolated porcine gastric mucosal cells was used as a measure. cAMP production increased up to four hours of incubation and was histamine responsive; an approximately 20-fold increase was found with histamine 10(-4) mol/l. Sera from both patients and healthy control subjects showed some inhibitory effect on basal cAMP production compared with incubation in medium only, whereas immunoglobulin preparations had a weaker non-specific effect. No stimulation was found when the patients' sera and immunoglobulins (up to a concentration of 6 mg/ml) were examined. These results suggest that gastric acid hypersecretion in duodenal ulcer disease is not an effect of histamine receptor stimulating antibodies. The data thus argue against a recent hypothesis that severe chronic ulcer disease in some patients has an autoimmune origin. 
Use of life-sustaining care for the elderly. Advanced age has been proposed as one criterion for limiting the use of life-sustaining medical treatment, but very little is known about current practices. We retrospectively studied utilization rates of intensive care (IC) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in admissions to a university hospital over 1 year (n = 9,998), to test whether these treatments are used more selectively for elderly patients. Overall utilization rates did not vary by age. However, among 524 terminal admissions, IC was used for 63% of patients age 35-74 but for only 50% of patients 75 and older (P less than 0.01). Among elderly patients, nursing home residence, diagnosis of advanced malignancy, severe chronic illness, and older age were independent predictors of withholding IC prior to death. Despite more selective use, survival rates were lower for elderly than for younger patients receiving IC (88% vs 78%, P less than 0.001). CPR showed similar but non-significant trends. Intensive care is being used less frequently prior to death for elderly patients, based on diagnosis and functional status as well as chronologic age. 
IgA nephropathy in non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. Renal glomerular changes are a well recognised complication of cirrhosis and are frequently characterised by mesangial IgA deposition. We report a patient with non-cirrhotic portal hypertension who developed IgA nephropathy and a nephrotic syndrome with renal histological changes classically associated with cirrhosis. Splenectomy with resection of a splenic artery aneurysm resulted in remission of the nephrotic syndrome. This case illustrates the factors which contribute to the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy in liver disease. 
A new coaxial needle for pre-operative localization of breast abnormalities. A new coaxial needle, containing a retractable anchoring wire with a helical tip, has been developed for purposes of mammographic and sonographic localization of non-palpable suspicious breast abnormalities before surgical excision. The helically shaped tip provides the needle with a number of potential advantages over other currently available localization needles. During in vitro comparisons with other needles quantitative and qualitative evidence was obtained to suggest that the new needle can be expected to have improved anchoring capability, be deflected less by tough fibrous tissue interfaces and be more visible sonographically. The anchoring wire can also be retracted and repositioned. Preliminary clinical experience with the needle was consistent with these expectations. 
Effects of acidic fibroblast growth factor on normal and ischemic myocardium. We sought to determine the effects of acidic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) on ischemic and normal myocardium and to determine whether direct application of acidic FGF to the heart could promote angiogenesis. Eighteen dogs underwent placement of an ameroid constrictor on the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). Three weeks later, a left internal mammary artery (IMA) pedicle was positioned over the LAD territory, with a sponge saturated with acidic FGF (n = 12) or saline (n = 4) interposed between the pedicle and the heart. Polytetrafluoroethylene fiber or collagen I sponges were used to deliver the acidic FGF. Weekly angiography of the IMA was performed in all dogs, but significant IMA to coronary collaterals were not demonstrable in any dog. Eight dogs had histological evidence of subendocardial infarction in the LAD territory (five acidic FGF, three control, p = NS). Striking smooth muscle cell hyperplasia was present in arterioles and small arteries exclusively in areas of subendocardial infarction in all of the acidic FGF-treated dogs but in none of the control dogs (p less than 0.05). Noninfarcted myocardium appeared normal in all dogs. In two additional dogs, ameroid constrictors were not placed on the LAD, such that acidic FGF-treated sponges were placed on normally perfused myocardium of the LAD territory. Histological evaluation of those hearts revealed normal myocardium, without evidence of myocardial infarction or smooth muscle cell hyperplasia. Thus, when acidic FGF is delivered to the myocardium via an epicardial sponge in dogs whose coronary flow is compromised, acidic FGF does not cause an angiogenic response in viable myocardium but causes vascular smooth muscle cell hyperplasia in areas subjected to ischemic injury. 
Sleep apnea in infants who succumb to the sudden infant death syndrome. Previous studies have shown the frequency of respiratory pauses to be altered in groups of infants at risk for the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). In this study, we assess the frequency of apneic pauses during quiet sleep and rapid eye movement sleep in control infants and infants who subsequently died of SIDS. Sleep states were identified in 12-hour physiological recordings of SIDS victims and matched control infants, and the number of respiratory pauses from 4 to 30 seconds in duration was computed for quiet sleep and rapid eye movement sleep. SIDS victims 40 to 65 days of age showed significantly fewer apneic pauses than did age-matched control infants across the two sleep states. Fewer short respiratory pauses accounted for most of the reduction in number of apneic events in the SIDS victims during both sleep states. During the first month of life, SIDS victims did not differ significantly from control neonates on this measure. The finding that this respiratory difference exists during the second month of life, just before the period of maximal risk for SIDS, but not earlier, may have implications for the etiology of SIDS deaths. 
Multidrug resistance (mdr1) gene expression in adult acute leukemias: correlations with treatment outcome and in vitro drug sensitivity. Resistance to multiple chemotherapeutic agents has been related to the production of P-glycoprotein, a trans-membrane drug efflux pump that is encoded by the multidrug resistance (MDR) gene mdr1. To investigate whether mdr1 could be involved in clinical resistance to chemotherapy in acute leukemias, we have analyzed retrospectively the RNA from adult acute leukemia cells by slot-blot hybridization with a human mdr1 probe. Units of mdr1 expression were defined by reference to drug-sensitive human sarcoma and K562 leukemia cell lines (1 U) and the highly resistant doxorubicin selected leukemia cells K562/R7 (50 U). We studied 41 adult patients with acute leukemias: 5 acute lymphoblastic leukemias, 23 acute myeloid leukemias, and 13 secondary leukemias or blast crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. Expression of 10 U or more of mdr1 was found in 6 of 31 (19%) leukemias at diagnosis, versus 5 of 10 (50%) after relapse from therapy, P = .06. The complete remission rate and in vitro sensitivity to daunorubicin were both correlated with low expression (1 U, v 2 U or more) of mdr1. Among 36 evaluable attempts to induce remission, the complete remission rate was 67% (8 of 12) for patients with undetectable or minimal mdr1 expression (1 U), versus 29% (7 of 24) in patients with 2 U or more of expression, P = .03. In vitro resistance to daunorubicin or other MDR-related drugs was associated with expression of 2 U or more of mdr1 in 11 of 11 cases, while specimens that were sensitive to these agents were negative for mdr1 expression in 5 of 11 cases, P = .03. These data suggest that mdr1 expression contributes to chemoresistance in acute leukemia. Determination of mdr1 gene expression may be useful in designing therapy for patients with leukemia. 
The effect of trisomy 18 on transverse cerebellar diameter. The transverse cerebellar diameter was measured in 19 fetuses with trisomy 18. Eleven of the cerebellar measurements (57.9%) were greater than 2 SD below the mean for the patient's gestational age. If fetal biometry rather than last menstrual period were used to determine gestational age, four of the 19 (21.0%) cerebellar measurements were greater than 2 SD below the mean. Both intrauterine growth retardation and intrinsic central nervous system abnormalities associated with trisomy 18 appeared to affect cerebellar size. 
Endometriosis of the terminal ileum simulating the clinical, roentgenographic, and surgical findings in Crohn's disease. A 38-yr-old nulliparous female presented with endometriosis of the terminal ileum which mimicked the clinical, roentgenographic, and surgical findings of Crohn's disease. The patient presented with diarrhea, right lower quadrant pain, fever, and significant weight loss. At surgery, the terminal ileum was inflamed, indurated, thickened, and angulated. Ileal endometriosis may be expected to simulate Crohn's disease, because intestinal endometriosis frequently produces local bowel inflammation, adhesions, stricture, and angulation. Ileal endometriosis should be carefully considered in the differential diagnosis of Crohn's disease in menstruating females who are nulliparous and have dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, dyschezia, menometrorrhagia, or other perimenstrual symptoms. It is important not to mistake endometriosis for Crohn's disease because endometriosis has a different therapy. 
Relationship of regional fat distribution and obesity to electrocardiographic parameters in healthy premenopausal women. Abdominal obesity is an independent cardiovascular risk factor. The coexistence of abdominal obesity and electrocardiographic abnormalities may facilitate the development of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death. We determined the relationship of body fat distribution and obesity to ECG indices in 27 obese premenopausal women on an isocaloric diet. Intra-abdominal fat distribution was assessed by computerized tomography, and obesity was assessed by hydrostatic weighing. The PR, QRS, and QTc intervals, the P and QRS axes, and the P-QRS angle were determined from a resting electrocardiogram. Cardiovascular risk profile was assessed by systolic and diastolic blood pressure and plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Increased deposition of intra-abdominal fat was significantly associated with prolongation of the QTc interval independent of obesity and other cardiovascular risk factors. The prolongation of the QTc interval seen with increasing intra-abdominal fat distribution may enhance susceptibility to cardiac arrhythmias. These subjects should have electrocardiographic monitoring during periods of weight loss achieved by intensive regimens. 
Intrapericardial OK-432 instillation for the management of malignant pericardial effusion. Ten patients with malignant pericardial effusion were treated with intrapericardial injection of OK-432 (penicillin-treated and heat-treated lyophilized powder of the substrain of Streptococcus pyogenes A3). After intrapericardial insertion of a catheter, a maximal volume of pericardial fluid was withdrawn with cytologic confirmation of malignancy. Five or 10 Klinische Einheit (KE) (KE is a unit used to express the strength of a preparation) of OK-432 diluted in 20 ml of saline was injected into the pericardial space in seven and three patients, respectively. It was repeated in case of reaccumulation. Seven patients were treated only once and the remaining three required a second treatment. Complete control of pericardial effusion was achieved in all patients for an average of 329 days (range, 54 to 790 days). Fever and chest pain were experienced in six and five patients, respectively, but were controlled with antipyretics. Two of three patients who received 10 KE of OK-432 experienced hypotension that was successfully controlled with vasopressor drugs with or without reaspiration of pericardial fluid. Rapid reactive reaccumulation of the pericardial fluid was thought to be a cause of hypotension. A follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan was performed in seven patients and a thickened pericardium was noticed in five; no patients had constrictive pericarditis. These results suggest that intrapericardial administration of 5 KE of OK-432 is an effective and safe treatment for malignant pericardial effusion. 
Increased risk of myelodysplasia and leukaemia after etoposide, cisplatin, and bleomycin for germ-cell tumours. Among the cytostatic drugs only the alkylating agents have been firmly established as being leukaemogenic. This report describes 4 cases of acute myeloid leukaemia and 1 of myelodysplasia occurring in a cohort of 212 patients with germ-cell tumours treated with etoposide, cisplatin, and bleomycin. The mean cumulative risk of leukaemic complications was 4.7% (SE 2.3) 5.7 years after start of etoposide-containing chemotherapy, and, compared with the risk in the general population, the relative risk of overt leukaemia was 336 (95% CI 92-861). No leukaemias were detected in a previous cohort of 127 patients with germ-cell tumours treated with cisplatin, bleomycin, and vinblastine. The increased risk of leukaemia was most probably due to etoposide alone or in combination with cisplatin or bleomycin, since other published work has also not revealed an excess of leukaemias among patients with germ-cell tumours treated with only cisplatin, bleomycin, and vinblastine. The risk of leukaemia was dose related since all 5 patients with leukaemic complications were among the 82 who had received a cumulative dose of more than 2000 mg/m2 etoposide, whereas no leukaemias were observed among 130 patients who had received up to 2000 mg/m2 (p = 0.004). 3 of the leukaemic patients had balanced chromosome translocations affecting bands 11q23 and 21q22. These translocations, and perhaps also other balanced aberrations, seem to be characteristic of myelodysplasia and acute leukaemia occurring after therapy with cytostatic agents acting on DNA-topoisomerase II. 
Gamma imaging with negatively charge-modified monoclonal antibody: modification with synthetic polymers Antimyosin Fab has been modified to carry highly negatively charged synthetic polymers containing DTPAs (DTPA-PL) as chelating agents, of starting molecular weights 3.3 and 17 kD. The immunoreactivities of the modified antibodies were unaffected by the modification procedure. The isoelectric points (PI) of unmodified antimyosin (AM) Fab (PI range 7-9, Mr = 52kD) were changed to PIs predominantly between 4 and 5 (Mr = 59 kD for DTPA-PL3.3kD-AM-Fab and 67kD for DTPA-PL17kD-AM-Fab). These AM-Fab preparations were tested for specific target localization and visualization in vivo in an experimental canine model of acute myocardial infarction. The charge-modified 111In-labeled AM-Fab preparations showed enhanced target (necrotic myocardium) visualization within 30 min of intravenous infusion and decreased background activity in normal myocardium (mean %ID/g +/- s.e.m., 0.0076 +/- 0.0006, n = 164, and 0.0056 +/- 0.0004, n = 92, for 111In-DTPA-PL3.3kD- and DTPA-PL17kD-AM-Fab respectively) relative to conventional 111In-DTPA-AM-Fab (0.0263 +/- 0.0037, n = 135) (p less than 0.001) or radioiodinated AM-Fab (0.0098 +/- 0.0006, n = 256) (p less than or equal to 0.001). Furthermore, the concentration of negatively charged 111In-labeled antimyosin Fab decreased in non-target organs such as the liver and kidneys. In diagnostic and therapeutic applications, charge-modified macromolecules may improve target localization and reduce non-target organ activity. 
Abnormal pattern of luteinizing hormone pulsatility in women with epilepsy. Dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis in epileptic females has been suggested in the latest years. To further elucidate this issue, we assessed reproductive endocrine function in 10 normally cycling, drug-free epileptic women and in 5 normal controls, evaluating the basal hormonal profile and luteinizing hormone (LH) pulsatility in the midfollicular phase. Luteinizing hormone pulse frequency was significantly higher in epileptic women with a consequent reduction of the LH interpulse interval. We suggest that epilepsy may interfere with the functional activity of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulse generator. The pathogenetic mechanisms for this phenomenon may be the spreading of paroxysmal activity within the hypothalamic areas or, alternatively, a neurotransmitter dysfunction giving rise both to the seizure disorder and to the abnormal LH pulsatile pattern. 
Oral contraceptives and reproductive system cancer. Benefits and risks. Large epidemiologic studies conducted to date in the United States and abroad have not demonstrated any statistically significant increase in the overall incidence of breast cancer among women who used oral contraceptives (OCs). The cumulative risk of breast cancer among women less than 60 years of age is clearly not related to OC use, although the incidence of breast cancer in certain subgroups of premenopausal women who used OCs may be increased and warrants monitoring. Evidence of a latency period in the development of breast cancer among OC users is not convincing. Studies to date have indicated that the risk of invasive cervical cancer appears to be unaffected by OC use. The data on cervical intraepithelial neoplasia are inconclusive and fraught with confounding variables. There is unequivocal evidence that OC use reduces the incidence of other reproductive system cancers, notably ovarian and endometrial. 
Seizures caused by nontraumatic parenchymal brain hemorrhages. Seizures occurred in 15% of patients with parenchymal brain hemorrhage (early in 12% and delayed in 3%). Seizures were most frequent with lobar hemorrhages and uncommon with deep subcortical hemorrhages. Lobar hemorrhages in the frontal, parietal, or temporal region were more commonly associated with seizures, whereas occipital hemorrhages were not. Seizures were most common if the hemorrhage was due to an aneurysm, angioma, or neoplasm and less common if hypertensive or spontaneous. If the patient had recurrent seizures or developed delayed seizures, CT showed that the hemorrhage evolved to a hypodense appearance; if the seizure did not recur, CT showed that the hemorrhage evolved to an isodense appearance. 
Evaluation of optic nerve sheath fenestration in pseudotumor cerebri using automated perimetry. Evaluation of the efficacy of optic nerve sheath fenestration in pseudotumor cerebri has been hindered by a lack of quantitative indicators of visual function before and after treatment. Nine patients (14 eyes) were treated who had pseudotumor with optic nerve sheath fenestration, in whom automated perimetry was used as a major parameter in the decision to undertake surgery and in evaluating the results. Visual field results demonstrated significant improvement in this group of patients. Seven of 8 eyes with total loss less than 1500 dB had improvement or no further deterioration. Using results of the last preoperative examination as baseline, it was found that six of the eight had improvement over 150 dB. In one patient, a slight deterioration occurred postoperatively. Those eyes with total loss above 1500 dB demonstrated stabilization of fields postoperatively. Statistical analysis of total loss preoperatively and postoperatively for this group of patients demonstrated significant improvement for five of the six comparisons investigated. Average preoperative total loss and average postoperative total loss were not significantly different. Comparisons of results of the last preoperative examination to those of the first postoperative and most recent follow-up examinations, and evaluation of average total loss postoperatively showed significant improvement had occurred. Results of the first postoperative examination and those of the most recent follow-up examination showed significant improvement from the average preoperative total loss. 
Interaction between T cell receptor beta chain and immunoglobulin heavy chain region genes in susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Despite some reports of an association between insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and a BglII RFLP in the T cell receptor beta chain (TCRB) constant region, results of several recent studies, including our own, have failed to support such an association. However, we here report evidence for an IDDM-TCRB relationship which is dependent on immunoglobulin heavy-chain-region genes. We analyzed 198 unrelated diabetics and 84 normal siblings (maximum one sibling per diabetic) typed for the BglII TCRB RFLP and Gm immunoglobulin allotypes Glm(1), Glm(2), G2m(23), and G3m(5), which identify the four common Gm haplotypes. The BglIII TCRB genotype frequencies were significantly different between diabetics positive and negative for G2m(23) (P = .017) and G3m(5) (P = .021) but were not different between normal siblings positive and negative for those allotypes (P = .94 and P = .77, respectively). Thus, there were significant interactions between TCRB, Gm, and IDDM for two of the four immunoglobulin allotypes examined. We have previously reported interactions between HLA, Gm (particularly G2m(23)), and IDDM and postulate that the TCRB-Gm-IDDM and HLA-Gm-IDDM interaction effects may be functionally related. 
Comparing clinical information with claims data: some similarities and differences How well can hospital discharge abstracts be used to estimate patient health status? This paper compares information on comorbidity obtained from hospital discharge abstracts for patients undergoing prostatectomy or cholecystectomy at a Winnipeg teaching hospital with clinical data on preoperative medical conditions prospectively collected during an Anesthesia Follow-up study. The diagnostic information on cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and metabolic disorders showed considerable agreement, ranging from 65 to over 90% correspondence across the two data sets. Certain conditions noted by the anesthesiologist were often absent from the claims data; cardiovascular disease was recorded in the clinical data but absent from the claims for 31% of prostatectomy and 17% of cholecystectomy cases. Such patients were less likely to have been assigned a high score on the ASA Physical Status measure or to have high-risk diagnoses on the hospital file. Similar findings resulted from comparing the two sources in their ability to predict such adverse outcomes as mortality and readmission to hospital: the anesthesia file generally included less serious comorbidity. 
Effects of caffeine on tobacco withdrawal. Smoking cessation increases caffeine blood levels, and this has been hypothesized to cause some of the symptoms of tobacco withdrawal (e.g., anxiety and insomnia). To test this hypothesis, 10 coffee drinkers who smoked cigarettes were entered into a completely within-subjects experimental design in which the effects of caffeine dose (0, 50, and 100 mg/coffee serving) and smoking status (smoking versus abstinence) were examined over a 4-day period. Self-reported and observed measures of tobacco withdrawal, caffeine withdrawal, and intoxication, as well as psychomotor tasks and vital signs, were completed daily; blood was drawn at the end of each period. Temporary abstinence produced typical withdrawal symptoms but did not significantly increase caffeine blood levels. Caffeine did not increase the severity of symptoms but did decrease the severity of withdrawal-induced hunger. These findings suggest that, in the absence of increased blood levels, caffeine does not increase the severity of tobacco withdrawal. 
Angiography is useful in detecting the source of chronic gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. The treatment of patients with chronic gastrointestinal bleeding can be a frustrating diagnostic challenge. In the past 10-15 years, a variety of new diagnostic procedures (e.g., fiber-optic endoscopy, scintigraphy, and double-contrast barium studies) have become available to examine these patients. Despite these new procedures, a small number of patients continue to bleed without a defined cause. We sought to evaluate the role of visceral angiography in patients with chronic gastrointestinal bleeding in whom findings on an extensive noninvasive workup have been normal. Between 1983 and 1990, we obtained angiograms on 36 such patients. The cause of bleeding was established by angiography in 16 patients (44%). In 11 of these 16, angiography revealed only a structural abnormality without active bleeding. Twenty patients had normal angiographic findings. No angiograms were false-positive, but three were false-negative (8%). No complication occurred as a result of the angiographic procedures. Our experience shows that visceral angiography can provide a positive diagnosis in a significant number of patients with chronic gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin in whom all other diagnostic measures have been unrevealing. Despite improvements in noninvasive diagnostic techniques, angiography still remains an important tool for examining this group of patients. 
Thoracoabdominal aneurysm resection after previous infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysmectomy. Thoracoabdominal aneurysms in 51 patients were repaired over 5 years ending in February 1991. Fourteen (27%, 14 of 51) patients had a prior infrarenal aneurysm resection (PRA); their data are analyzed separately. The average age of patients who had undergone PRA was 67 years (range: 56 to 86 years). The mean aneurysm diameter was 8.6 cm (range: 5 to 12 cm), and the mean time interval between initial aneurysm surgery and subsequent resection of the thoracoabdominal aneurysm was 8.5 years (range: 2 to 17 years). Three patients in the PRA group were operated on emergently, two because of clinical evidence of rupture; the other patients underwent elective repair. Early mortality (30 days) in the PRA group was significantly related to age (72 years or older versus younger than 72 years: 75% versus 10%, p = 0.04), proximal extent of aneurysm (above diaphragm versus below diaphragm: 50% versus 0%, p = 0.05), ruptured aneurysm (ruptured versus nonruptured: 100% versus 16%, p = 0.06), and a cardiac history of myocardial infarction (57% versus 0%, p = 0.03), congestive heart failure (66% versus 0%, p = 0.01), or arrhythmia (80% versus 0%, p = 0.005). Similar results were seen with the entire group of patients with thoracoabdominal aneurysms except that the proximal extent of the aneurysm was not related to mortality. These results demonstrate that thoracoabdominal aneurysm resection after prior infrarenal aneurysmectomy is not associated with increased mortality or morbidity. 
Closure of a tracheoesophageal fistula by bronchoscopic application of fibrin glue and decontamination of the oral cavity. A tracheoesophageal fistula was successfully closed with a fibrin adhesive applied by means of a fiberoptic bronchoscope, instead of by esophagoscopy. To facilitate closure of the fistula, the technique was combined with decontamination of the oral cavity, to avoid bacterial contamination. The procedure is proposed as an alternative to surgery for critically ill patients. 
Usefulness of excitable gap and pattern of resetting in atrial flutter for determining reentry circuit location. Clinical and experimental data show that type I atrial flutter is due to a reentry mechanism with an excitable gap. To define the location of the reentry circuit of atrial flutter, width of excitable gap, poststimulation cycle and pattern of reset after premature stimulus were analyzed in 18 patients during atrial flutter at multiple atrial sites (high, lateral, posterior and septal right atrium, and coronary sinus). The pattern of reset was defined as flat or increasing whether the return cycle remained unchanged or prolonged with increasing prematurity. Shorter values of the excitable gap were found at the coronary sinus (33 +/- 8 ms) and high right atrium (30 +/- 10 ms) than at the posterior (43 +/- 9 ms) or septal right atrium (45 +/- 11 ms). Intermediate values (36 +/- 8 ms) were measured at the lateral right atrium. Poststimulation cycle, corrected for atrial flutter cycle length, was shorter in the posterior (6 +/- 7 ms) and septal right atrium (5 +/- 7 ms) than in the coronary sinus (35 +/- 9 ms), and the high (23 +/- 10 ms) and lateral right atrium (15 +/- 9 ms). A flat pattern of resetting occurred more frequently at the septal (18 of 18 patients) and posterior right atrium (15 of 18) than at the lateral (8 of 18) and high right atrium (2 of 17), and was never observed at the coronary sinus. Atrial flutter was successfully terminated by overdrive atrial pacing in 15 of 18 patients, and termination was more easily obtained from the septal and posterior right atrium. 
Chronic posttraumatic aortic pseudoaneurysm. Recognition before rupture. Few patients survive transection of the aorta caused by blunt trauma. However, among those who do are a small number who go on to live with an unrecognized pseudoaneurysm that may rupture at any time. Because these aneurysms may be mistaken for more common disease processes, such as hilar adenopathy, atherosclerotic aneurysm, or neoplasia, the authors describe radiographic findings that suggest the correct diagnosis. 
Depression in spouses of chronic pain patients: the role of patient pain and anger, and marital satisfaction. Although several studies have shown that spouses of chronic pain patients may experience clinically significant depressive symptoms few studies have comprehensively examined the role of both patient and spouse-related factors in the development and maintenance of this emotional distress. Twenty-nine married male chronic benign low back pain patients and their spouses were recruited in order to examine the role of patient, spouse, and marital factors in spouse depressive symptomatology. The results indicated that 28% percent of the spouses in the sample reported significantly depressed mood. A 2-stage regression analysis was employed that revealed 3 significant predictors of spouse's depressed mood, namely patient's average pain; patient's reported levels of anger and hostility, and the spouse's level of marital satisfaction. These findings are discussed in terms of their implications for clinical interventions for pain patients and their families. 
Blood leukotrienes in headache: correlation with platelet activity. Platelet hyperactivity, one of the commonest findings associated with migraine, has been related to increased release of biologically active substances such as catecholamines and arachidonic acid metabolites, which seem to play a role in the pathogenesis of migraine. In this study, in vitro platelet aggregation tests were performed on samples from patients with different types of headache. The presence of platelet hyperactivity was clearly demonstrated in 11 patients with classical migraine between attacks, but not in 4 patients between attacks of common migraine. Nevertheless, the presence of a marked platelet hyporesponsivity was found during the attack phase of both classical and common migraine. No difference in platelet aggregability was found between attack and post-attack phases in 5 patients with cluster headache. Blood leukotrienes were analyzed in 8 patients with classical migraine and in the 5 patients with cluster headache. During the attack phase of classical migraine both LTC4 and LTB4 were present in the peripheral blood, while the post-attack phase was characterized by the disappearance of LTC4 and the presence of LTB4 and its transisomer delta 6-trans-LTB4. Blood leukotrienes were constantly absent during both phases of cluster headache. Incubation of normal platelets with LTC4 or delta 6-trans-LTB4 was followed by inhibition of platelet response to epinephrine. delta 6-trans-LTB4, at higher concentrations, induced the opposite effect. A possible role of blood leukotrienes in the changes occurring in platelet aggregability during the different phases of classical migraine, is discussed. 
Expression of brain natriuretic peptide gene in human heart. Production in the ventricle. To elucidate the expression of the brain natriuretic peptide gene in the human heart, we have measured brain natriuretic peptide mRNA levels in hearts using the Northern blot hybridization method. Brain natriuretic peptide mRNA was present with a size of approximately 0.9 kb in the ventricle as well as in the atrium. The brain natriuretic peptide mRNA level in the ventricle was 52% of that in the atrium, whereas the atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA level in the ventricle was approximately two orders of magnitude lower than that in the atrium. Taking atrial and ventricular weights into account, the total amount of brain natriuretic peptide mRNA in the ventricle represented 77% of that in the whole heart. These results demonstrate that most of brain natriuretic peptide mRNA occurs in the ventricle, in contrast with atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA, which is present mainly in the atrium, indicating that the ventricle is a major production site of brain natriuretic peptide. 
Stress failure in pulmonary capillaries. In the mammalian lung, alveolar gas and blood are separated by an extremely thin membrane, despite the fact that mechanical failure could be catastrophic for gas exchange. We raised the pulmonary capillary pressure in anesthetized rabbits until stress failure occurred. At capillary transmural pressures greater than or equal to 40 mmHg, disruption of the capillary endothelium and alveolar epithelium was seen in some locations. The three principal forces acting on the capillary wall were analyzed. 1) Circumferential wall tension caused by the transmural pressure. This is approximately 25 dyn/cm (25 mN/m) at failure where the radius of curvature of the capillary is 5 microns. This tension is small, being comparable with the tension in the alveolar wall associated with lung elastic recoil. 2) Surface tension of the alveolar lining layer. This contributes support to the capillaries that bulge into the alveolar spaces at these high pressures. When protein leakage into the alveolar spaces occurs because of stress failure, the increase in surface tension caused by surfactant inhibition could be a powerful force preventing further failure. 3) Tension of the tissue elements in the alveolar wall associated with lung inflation. This may be negligible at normal lung volumes but considerable at high volumes. Whereas circumferential wall tension is low, capillary wall stress at failure is very high at approximately 8 x 10(5) dyn/cm2 (8 x 10(4) N/m2) where the thickness is only 0.3 microns. This is approximately the same as the wall stress of the normal aorta, which is predominantly composed of collagen and elastin. The strength of the thin part of the capillary wall is probably attributable to the collagen IV of the basement membranes. The safety factor is apparently small when the capillary pressure is raised during heavy exercise. Stress failure causes increased permeability with protein leakage, or frank hemorrhage, and probably has a role in several types of lung disease. 
Chylothorax after childbirth. We report a case of chylothorax which appeared in a mother after childbirth. Disruption of the thoracic duct occurred with the high intrathoracic pressures generated by the Valsalva maneuver used by the patient during labor to "push." No evidence of other trauma or malignancy were found and the patient did well after use of total parenteral nutrition, thoracotomy with thoracic duct ligation, and pleurodesis. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery for arteriovenous malformations of the brain. Stereotactic radiosurgery successfully obliterates carefully selected arteriovenous malformations (AVM's) of the brain. In an initial 3-year experience using the 201-source cobalt-60 gamma knife at the University of Pittsburgh, 227 patients with AVM's were treated. Symptoms at presentation included prior hemorrhage in 143 patients (63%), headache in 104 (46%), and seizures in 70 (31%). Neurological deficits were present in 102 patients (45%). Prior surgical resection (resulting in subtotal removal) had been performed in 36 patients (16%). In 47 selected patients (21%), embolization procedures were performed in an attempt to reduce the AVM size prior to radiosurgery. The lesions were classified according to the Spetzler grading system: 64 (28%) were Grade VI (inoperable), 22 (10%) were Grade IV, 90 (40%) were Grade III, 43 (19%) were Grade II, and eight (4%) were Grade I. With the aid of computer imaging-integrated isodose plans for single-treatment irradiation, total coverage of the AVM nidus was possible in 216 patients (95%). The location and volume of the AVM were the most important factors for the selection of radiation dose. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was performed at 6-month intervals in 161 patients. Seventeen patients who had MR evidence of complete obliteration underwent angiography within 3 months of imaging: in 14 (82%) complete obliteration was confirmation being 4 months (mean 17 months) after radiosurgery. The 2-year obliteration rates according to volume were: all eight (100%) AVM's less than 1 cu cm; 22 (85%) of 26 AVM's of 1 to 4 cu cm; and seven (58%) of 12 AVM's greater than 4 cu cm. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed postirradiation changes in 38 (24%) of 161 patients at a mean interval of 10.2 months after radiosurgery; only 10 (26%) of those 38 patients were symptomatic. In the entire series, two patients developed permanent new neurological deficits believed to be treatment-related. Two patients died of repeat hemorrhage at 6 and 23 months after treatment during the latency interval prior to obliteration. Stereotactic radiosurgery is an important method to obliterate AVM's, especially those previously considered inoperable. Success and complication risks are related to the AVM location and the volume treated. 
HMB-45 immunohistochemical staining of conjunctival melanocytic lesions. HMB-45 is a monoclonal antibody recently described as being highly specific for melanocytic proliferations of the skin and in metastases of melanotic lesions. To determine a possible role for HMB-45 in ophthalmic pathology, 45 conjunctival lesions, including 23 melanomas, were analyzed using immunohistochemical techniques with anti-S-100 and HMB-45 as primary antibodies. Nineteen (82.6%) of the melanomas exhibited HMB-45 positivity, and 19 (82.6%) contained S-100 protein, with concordance of all but two cases. Seven cases of primary acquired melanosis were studied; one (33%) of three with atypia was HMB-45 positive, as were two (50%) of four without atypia. Among nevi, 1 (9.1%) of 11 showed faint staining with HMB-45. Fifteen conjunctival epithelial dysplasias were negative with HMB-45. At present, HMB-45 appears to offer no great advantage over S-100 protein in the analysis of conjunctival melanomas. Its role in the distinction of benign from atypical or malignant junctional melanocytic proliferations remains unclear. 
Evaluation of dipyridamole-Doppler echocardiography for detection of myocardial ischemia and coronary artery disease. Doppler assessment of left ventricular filling and ejection during dipyridamole stress may supplement wall motion analysis for detection of myocardial ischemia and coronary artery disease (CAD). Thirty-four patients taking no cardioactive therapy were studied using intravenous dipyridamole (0.6 mg/kg) during 2-dimensional and pulsed Doppler echocardiography. Twelve patients had normal coronary arteries (group 1) and the remainder, who had significant CAD, were divided into groups 2 (n = 11) and 3 (n = 11). Only subjects in group 2 developed myocardial ischemia manifest as reversible regional asynergy and ST-segment depression. Heart rate increased (16 +/- 9 beats/min, p less than 0.01) and mean blood pressure decreased (-5 +/- 8 mm Hg, p = not significant) uniformly across groups. Exaggerated hyperkinesia of normally contracting wall segments was the common response to dipyridamole infusion in patients with CAD. The respective mean percent changes in peak early diastolic velocity, peak atrial velocity, their ratio and ejection peak velocity, and mean acceleration for groups 1 (20, 42, -13, 20 and 23%), 2 (22, 32, -2, 10 and 14%) and 3 (23, 33, -6, 16 and 18%) were similar. Comparisons between normal patients and those with CAD and between groups 2 and 3 revealed no significant differences in the effect of dipyridamole on any variable. However, a decrease in both peak velocity and mean acceleration of left ventricular ejection was seen in 3 of 4 group 2 patients who developed severe ischemia. Dipyridamole-Doppler echocardiography is insensitive for detection of CAD and appears unable to identify myocardial ischemia unless this is severe. Hemodynamic changes and compensatory wall motion induced by dipyridamole may explain these findings. 
Bile duct diverticula and webs: nonspecific cholangiographic features of primary sclerosing cholangitis. Biliary tree diverticula and webs are considered by several authors to be specific cholangiographic features of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). Our experience suggested that these findings can be seen in patients without PSC. The purpose of this study was twofold: to establish whether diverticula and webs are indeed specific for PSC and to assess whether PSC can be accurately diagnosed without reference to diverticula or webs. We retrospectively reviewed 861 consecutive ERCP studies and found 32 cases of webs and/or diverticula. Using accepted cholangiographic, clinical, and histologic criteria, we diagnosed PSC in nine patients and excluded it in 21, with two instances of uncertain diagnoses. Webs and diverticula seen in PSC were cholangiographically indistinguishable from those in the group without PSC. All 21 patients without PSC had other biliary abnormalities, and were grouped by the predominant abnormality or finding believed to be associated with diverticulum or web formation: common duct stones or cholangitis (n = 11 patients), postoperative stricture (n = 4), bile duct stent and balloon dilatation (n = 3), malignant stricture (n = 2), and choledochoduodenostomy (n = 1). To assess cholangiographic diagnosis of PSC in these patients, a blinded reviewer studied the radiographs of the 30 patients with diverticula and/or webs who had confirmed diagnoses. By using established radiologic criteria alone (ignoring diverticula and webs), the correct diagnosis was made in 27, yielding a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 91%. We conclude that the presence of diverticula and/or webs on a cholangiogram is a nonspecific finding and may be due to inflammation or trauma to the bile duct wall. Further, PSC can be distinguished from other abnormalities on the basis of findings other than diverticula and webs. 
Complications following external beam radiation therapy for prostate cancer: an analysis of patients treated with and without staging pelvic lymphadenectomy. We reviewed the treatment morbidity associated with definitive high energy external beam radiotherapy in 289 consecutive patients with clinically localized prostate cancer (stages A2 to C) treated from 1984 to 1988 inclusively. All patients were treated with 18 mv. photon beams via a 4-field box technique. Radiation doses ranged from 5,858 to 6,900 cGy., with a mean dose of 6,456 cGy. and a median dose of 6,400 cGy. A total of 65 patients underwent extraperitoneal pelvic staging lymphadenectomy before radiotherapy. Complications noted in 42 patients were mild (generally trivial) in 23 and moderate in 19 (6.6%). There were no severe complications. The actuarial incidence of moderate complications was 9% at 5 years. Only 6 patients experienced symptoms for longer than 6 months. The risk of complications was not increased in patients who had undergone prior lymph node dissection, and only 2 of 65 had mild lymphedema, which resolved in both cases. We conclude that high energy external beam radiation for prostate cancer can be delivered with a low risk of serious complications, even in patients who have undergone extraperitoneal staging pelvic lymphadenectomy, provided the patients are treated to limited fields with high energy photons and at doses limited to 6,800 cGy. or less. 
Liesegang rings developing within intraperitoneal endometriotic implants. A case report. Liesegang rings are acellular, laminated structures that have been reported to accompany a variety of necrotizing and hemorrhagic tissue processes. Although most frequently seen in the kidneys and synovium, they can be present in other tissues. Liesegang rings are of importance because they are frequently confused by pathologists with helminth ova and nematodes, which they resemble. A case of Liesegang rings was associated with intraperitoneal endometriotic implants, with which the rings appeared to have originated. 
Autosomal recessive lethal infantile cytochrome C oxidase deficiency. Three bedouin children with mitochondrial myopathy due to cytochrome c oxidase deficiency presented with progressive muscle weakness, failure to thrive, proximal renal tubular acidosis, and lactic acidemia leading to death. Two died by age 5 months and one by age 16 months. Cytochrome c oxidase was markedly reduced in skeletal muscle extracts of all three. Three other children of the same family with most probably the same metabolic aberration are also described. We suggest an autosomal recessive inheritance for this lethal mitochondrial myopathy. 
Rapid development of vitamin K deficiency in an adolescent boy receiving total parenteral nutrition following bone marrow transplantation. In this case report the development of a vitamin K deficiency in a neutropenic adolescent receiving parenteral nutrition following bone marrow transplantation is described. The parenteral nutrition solution did not provide vitamin K and the patient had been receiving oral antibiotics prior to and during use of the intravenous feeding. Oral intake was minimal. Standard adult oral and intravenous multivitamin preparations for use in individuals older than 11 years do not routinely contain this vitamin. The function of vitamin K and causes for development of a deficiency are reviewed. Recommended intakes and guidelines for supplementation are also discussed. 
Risk factors for type-1 reactions in borderline leprosy patients. Type-1 or reversal reactions are the major cause of nerve damage and disability in leprosy. We wished to determine whether there were any clinical or laboratory markers that identified patients with an increased risk of type-1 reaction. 42 (31%) of 136 Nepalese borderline leprosy patients (97 male, 39 female; age range 7-73 years) had a type-1 reaction during the first 2 years of multi-drug therapy. Before therapy, 41 (98%) of the 42 patients were seropositive for antibodies to one of three mycobacterial antigens. Seropositivity for IgM antiphenolic-glycolipid-1 (PGL-1) antibodies, but not IgG anti-lipoarabinomannan or anti-Mycobacterium leprae 35 kDa protein antibodies, was significantly associated with subsequent manifestation of a type-1 reaction (p less than 0.001). The concentration of IgM anti-PGL-1 antibodies in serum was significantly higher in patients in whom a type-1 reaction developed. The risk attributable to anti-PGL-1 seropositivity was independent of leprosy class, skin smear positivity, and the presence of other anti-M leprae antibodies (adjusted odds ratio = 8.7, p less than 0.001). In the 87 patients who had a lepromin test, anti-PGL-1 seropositivity and lepromin reactivity were significant independent risk factors for subsequent reaction. 78% of patients with positive lepromin reactivity and IgM anti-PGL-1 antibodies had type-1 reactions. Patients with these risk factors should be carefully monitored during antimicrobial therapy to permit early initiation of anti-inflammatory treatment thus minimising permanent nerve damage and resultant disability. 
Propranolol in prevention of recurrent bleeding from severe portal hypertensive gastropathy in cirrhosis. The two main causes of gastrointestinal bleeding in cirrhosis are oesophageal varices and portal hypertensive gastropathy (PHG). Rebleeding from varices can be prevented by beta-blockers, but it is not clear whether these drugs effectively reduce rebleeding from PHG. 54 cirrhotic patients with acute or chronic bleeding from severe PHG took part in a randomised, controlled trial to investigate the efficacy of propranolol in prevention of rebleeding from PHG. 26 patients were randomised to receive propranolol daily at a dose that reduced the resting heart rate by 25% or to 55 bpm (20-160 mg twice daily), throughout mean follow-up of 21 (SD 11) months. 28 untreated controls were followed-up, with the same examinations, for 18 (13) months. The actuarial percentages of patients free of rebleeding from PHG were significantly higher in the propranolol-treated patients than in the untreated controls at 12 months (65% vs 38%; p less than 0.05) and at 30 months of follow-up (52% vs 7%; p less than 0.05). Propranolol-treated patients had fewer episodes of acute bleeding than controls (0.010 [0.004] vs 0.120 [0.040] per patient per month). Multivariate analysis showed that absence of propranolol treatment was the only predictive variable for rebleeding. Actuarial survival was slightly higher in the propranolol group than in the controls, but the difference was not significant. Thus, long-term propranolol treatment significantly reduces the frequency of rebleeding from severe PHG, and may improve the prognosis of cirrhotic patients with this disorder. 
Rice solution and World Health Organization solution by gastric infusion for high stool output diarrhea. We sought to determine the efficacy of three different types of treatment in children with acute diarrhea who, during the oral rehydration period, had high stool output (greater than 10 mL/kg per hour). Sixty-six children, aged 1 to 18 months, with an average stool output of 22.6 mL/kg per hour were randomly distributed into three groups: group 1 received a rice flour solution, group 2 received the World Health Organization rehydration solution by gastric infusion, and group 3 continued to receive this solution orally. In all three groups, a decrease in stool output was observed, with the higher decrease observed in group 1 patients. Such a decrease facilitated rehydration of all 22 patients in group 1 (100%) in 3.3 +/- 1.5 hours, 16 (73%) in group 2 in 4.3 +/- 2.1 hours, and 15 (69%) in group 3 in 4.9 +/- 2.0 hours. No complications were observed. These data indicate that the rice flour solution is effective in children with high stool output diarrhea. 
New technique of esophageal exclusion for chronic esophageal perforation. A new technique of near-total esophageal exclusion was used successfully in the treatment of 2 patients with chronic thoracic esophageal perforation and continuing sepsis. The most striking point of this technique is the use of cervical T-tube esophagostomy with the lower arm of the T tube circumfixed by chromic catgut tie to prevent swallowing of saliva. Whereas most of the previously reported procedures of cervical esophageal diversion require subsequent esophageal reconstruction, this technique is simple and effective and does not require a second operation. 
Chronic pain: a PET study of the central effects of percutaneous high cervical cordotomy. We have studied 5 patients with unilateral, severe chronic pain due to cancer before and after percutaneous, ventrolateral cervical cordotomy to investigate the central effects of the procedure. The aim was to identify the functional anatomical correlates of abolishing unilateral nociceptive input to the brain. Patients were investigated by positron emission tomography using C15O2 to evaluate cerebral blood flow. Comparisons were made between the patients with unilateral pain before cordotomy and normal volunteers. These demonstrated significantly less blood flow in 3 out of 4 of the individual quadrants of the hemithalamus contralateral to the side of pain (P less than 0.01-0.05). These differences were abolished by cordotomy. Comparison of the patients before and after cordotomy showed a significant decrease in blood flow in the dorsal anterior quadrant of the thalamus contralateral to the side of pain (P less than 0.05) which was normalised after cordotomy. There were no significant changes in the prefrontal or primary somatosensory cortex. We conclude that chronic pain results in a decrease of synaptic activity at thalamic level either from decreased activity in neurones projecting to that region and/or attenuated local neuronal firing. We have demonstrated no secondary remote effects in cortex, indicating the importance of subcortical mechanisms in central responses to chronic pain. 
Conservative management of breast fibroadenomas. Is it conservative or radical management to excise all fibroadenomas of the breast, especially in women less than 30 years old? Once a definite diagnosis is established by physical examination, fine-needle aspiration cytologic testing, and mammography, is it prudent to monitor women with small fibroadenomas (less than 4 cm in diameter)? We reviewed 498 cases of biopsy-proved fibroadenomas and 17 cases of phyllodes tumors (by biopsy) seen at Los Angeles County/University of Southern California Medical Center from 1986 to 1989. Analysis of patient age and measured tumor size in 203 fibroadenomas and 10 phyllodes tumor specimens revealed similar ranges for both tumors. The mean values were 28.5 years and 2.3 cm for fibroadenomas and 44 years and 3.8 cm for phyllodes tumors. No cases of coincident carcinoma within a fibroadenoma or of metastatic malignant phyllodes tumors were present in this review. As an alternative to excising all breast tumors, cytologically diagnosed fibroadenomas can be monitored, because they have no intrinsic premalignant potential and tend to regress with time. All breast tumors that rapidly increase in size should probably be excised at any age. 
Total parenteral nutrition increases mortality after hemorrhage OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) and different enteral feeding formulas on survival and liver function following hemorrhage in rats. DESIGN: Prospective randomized controlled study. SETTING: Laboratory of a large university-affiliated medical school. SUBJECTS: Sixty-seven male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 350 to 450 g. INTERVENTIONS: Jugular and gastroduodenal feeding catheters were inserted in animals 1 day before hemorrhage, and animals were started on one of six different fluid or nutritional regimens: TPN, iv saline, an enteral amino acid-based formula (AA) (Vivonex-TEN), an enteral peptide-based formula (PEP) (Reabilan-HN), an enteral intact-protein based formula (PRO) (Osmolite-HN), or enteral saline. A catheter was inserted in the tail artery and animals were hemorrhaged 5 mL/kg at baseline and 1 hr later. Animals were returned to their cages and observed for survival. Liver function was determined by measuring circulating bile acid levels at baseline and 24 hr after hemorrhage. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mortality was significantly increased in animals receiving TPN (63%) and AA (24%). Mortality was 13% in animals receiving PRO and 0% in animals receiving PEP and saline. Liver function deteriorated in all animals after hemorrhage except the PEP group. CONCLUSIONS: TPN and AA increased mortality in animals after hemorrhage. PEP was associated with zero mortality and protection of liver function after hemorrhage. 
Comparative trial of cefprozil vs. amoxicillin clavulanate potassium in the treatment of children with acute otitis media with effusion. A total of 137 children with acute otitis media with effusion were randomly allocated to treatment with cefprozil (30 mg/kg/day divided into two equal doses), an investigational cephalosporin or amoxicillin clavulanate potassium (40 mg/kg/day divided into three equal doses) for 10 days. The most common pathogens obtained from middle ear cavities by tympanocentesis were Streptococcus pneumoniae (33%), Haemophilus influenzae (19.6%) and Moraxella catarrhalis (8.3%). Patients were scheduled for follow-up visits at midtreatment, at end of therapy and at 30 days. Of the 137 children 122 were evaluable. Five of 60 patients (8.3%) treated with cefprozil and 14 of 62 patients (22.5%) treated with amoxicillin clavulanate potassium were considered therapeutic failures because of persistence of symptoms and/or isolation of the original pathogen or superinfection (P = 0.05). Rates of relapse, reinfection and persistent middle ear effusion as documented by tympanogram were comparable in both groups. When persistent middle ear effusion was analyzed by pneumatic otoscopy, 64 of 103 affected ears (62.1%) treated with cefprozil and 80 of 105 affected ears (76.1%) treated with amoxicillin clavulanate potassium were abnormal (P = 0.04). Loose stools were more common in children treated with amoxicillin clavulanate potassium than in children treated with cefprozil (P = 0.0004). Based on the efficacy results from this study, the lower gastrointestinal side effects and the convenience of twice-a-day dosing, we believe that cefprozil in a dosage of 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours represents a potential alternative for the treatment of acute otitis media with effusion in children. 
Are malignant melanoma patients at higher risk for a second cancer? This study tests whether malignant melanoma (MM) patients are at higher risk of having an unrelated second cancer by comparing the observed incidence of a second cancer in a given population of MM patients with the expected number in an age-matched and sex-matched group of healthy people followed for a similar period. The analysis was based on the person-years method in which the main consideration is the follow-up period after the diagnosis of MM. Of 370 patients with histologically confirmed MM, 27 (7.3%) had a second noncutaneous invasive cancer, diagnosed either simultaneously (within 6 months, five patients) or after the diagnosis of MM (22 patients). The follow-up period for the entire MM group was 1253 person-years, a period during which the expected number of cancer cases in the normal population, according to the Israel Cancer Registry, was 6.6. The observed-expected ratio or the relative risk (RR) was 4.1 (P less than 0.01). After excluding the five patients with simultaneous diagnosis of MM and a second cancer, analysis of the remaining 22 patients in whom MM definitely preceded the second cancer showed an RR of 3.3 (P less than 0.01). For the entire group, there were nine patients with breast cancer, five with head and neck cancer (two with thyroid and three with oral cavity cancer), five with gynecologic cancer (one with uterine and four with ovarian cancer), five myeloproliferative malignancies (one with lymphoma, three with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and one with myeloma), three gastrointestinal carcinomas (two with colon and one with stomach cancer), and two soft tissue sarcomas. When the differential analysis according to gender and age was done, it was found that the RR was higher for women (5.5, P less than 0.01) than for men where the RR was 2.2 (P less than 0.05). Differential analysis for various age groups showed that the trend for second cancer was consistent in all age groups, with a slight increase in the younger ones. None of the variables of MM, such as location of the primary tumor, level of invasion, or stage, were predictive for a second cancer. Furthermore, the RR for a second cancer did not relate significantly with the treatment given to the MM patient. Concerning the type of second cancer, it was found that the RR was especially high for breast cancer--6.6. These data indicate that MM patients may be at higher risk for having a noncutaneous invasive cancer compared with the general population. 
Sezary syndrome in a patient with hairy cell leukemia in remission. A 65-year-old man was evaluated for pancytopenia in March 1979, and found to have hairy cell leukemia (HCL). Treatment with splenectomy and subsequently interferon produced temporary remissions. In July 1985, the patient began intravenous deoxycoformycin (DCF) therapy, and after 1 year complete peripheral blood and bone marrow remission was achieved. Fourteen months after cessation of therapy, the patient developed a skin rash and was found to have cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and Sezary syndrome. Morphologic study of the hairy cells (HC) in the peripheral blood at presentation and the Sezary cells was distinct by light and electron microscopic study. Immunophenotyping of peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed clearly that the HC were of B-cell origin (CD20+, sIg+), whereas the lymphoid population at second presentation was T-cell (CD3+, CD4+, HLA-DR-). Clonal rearrangement of T-cell antigen receptor beta-chain gene was detected by Southern analysis of the Sezary cell population, whereas immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes remained in germ line configuration. This is the first case of Sezary syndrome developing in a patient previously treated for HCL where studies have confirmed distinct B-cell and T-cell origin of the two neoplasms. The authors suggest that treatment and disease-related immunosuppression are possible etiologic factors in the development of this second lymphoid neoplasm. 
Fractures of the spine in diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. Fractures of the spine in diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) have rarely been reported. Only four cases could be found in the world literature. Eight new cases with nine fractures are reported in this study. The critical features are the frequent delays in diagnosis (three of eight patients) and the high rate of immediate and delayed neurologic deficit (seven of eight patients). Two fracture patterns occurred in this group. The first type occurred through the midportion of an ankylosed segment of the spine and involved the vertebral body (five fractures). The second type occurred at the top or bottom of a fused segment (four fractures). The latter were disk disruptions or odontoid fractures. This is a marked difference from spinal fractures in ankylosing spondylitis, in which the majority are transdiskal fractures. The difference can be explained on the basis of the different pathology of these two disease processes. Careful evaluation of patients with DISH who sustain trauma is critical. Treatment of this rare injury should be early stabilization of the spine to avoid complications of nonunion, deformity, neurologic injury, and death. 
Right ventricular infarction: recognition and assessment of its hemodynamic significance by two-dimensional echocardiography. To evaluate the ability of two-dimensional echocardiographic indexes to determine the hemodynamic significance of the right ventricular infarction, 24 patients with electrocardiographic evidence of right ventricular infarction were studied. Hemodynamic significance was defined as a jugular venous pressure greater than 17 cm H2O or a right atrial pressure greater than 13 mm Hg. Patients with hemodynamically significant right ventricular infarctions (group I, n = 9) had a 56% incidence of hypotension (blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg) with a mean systolic blood pressure of 93 +/- 23 mm Hg, whereas patients with nonhemodynamically significant right ventricular infarctions (group II, n = 15) had no hypotension and a mean systolic blood pressure of 121 +/- 18 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). The ratio of right atrial to pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 1.1 +/- 0.6 in group I and 0.6 +/- 0.2 in group II (p less than 0.05). Echocardiography demonstrated right ventricular free wall motion abnormalities in seven patients in group I and in 10 patients in group II. The descent of the right ventricular base was 0.7 +/- 0.2 cm in group I, 1.3 +/- 0.4 cm in group II, and 2.0 +/- 0.2 cm in a group of 20 normal control patients (p less than 0.001 for all comparisons). The respiratory caval index (percentage of collapse of the inferior vena cava with inspiration) was 22% +/- 11% in group I, 45% +/- 15% in group II, and 64% +/- 17% in the control subjects (p less than 0.05 for all comparisons). 
Etiology of cerebral vasospasm in primates. A primate model was used to determine whether oxyhemoglobin (OxyHb), methemoglobin (MetHb), or bilirubin is likely to be responsible for cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Forty cynomolgus monkeys were randomly assigned to one of five groups. On Day 0, each animal underwent angiography followed by right craniectomy and placement of an Ommaya reservoir with its catheter adjacent to the right middle cerebral artery (MCA). The animals received intrathecal injections twice a day for 6 days of one of the following solutions: mock cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); OxyHb; MetHb; bilirubin; or supernatant fluid from an incubated mixture of autologous blood and mock CSF. On Day 7, angiography was repeated and the animals were killed. Comparison of angiograms obtained on Day 0 and Day 7 of the experiment showed significant vasospasm of the right MCA and the right anterior cerebral and internal carotid arteries in the animal groups that had received OxyHb or supernatant fluid. There was a smaller reduction in diameter of the same vessels in the bilirubin group (not statistically significant), while no effects were observed in the groups receiving MetHb or mock CSF. Electron microscopy of the right MCA's gave results consistent with the angiographic findings. One monkey in the OxyHb group developed a delayed-onset right MCA infarction. These data suggest that OxyHb is the cause of cerebral vasospasm following SAH. 
Renal sensitivity to endothelium-derived-relaxing-factor-mediated vasodilatation in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. 1. The sensitivity of the kidney to endothelium-derived-relaxing-factor-mediated vasodilatation has been investigated in the spontaneously hypertensive rat and the Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rat using an isolated perfused rat kidney model. 2. No difference in the slope, ED50 or maximum of the concentration-response curves for the endothelial-dependent vasodilators A23187, a calcium ionophore, and acetylcholine could be demonstrated between kidneys obtained from the spontaneously hypertensive and the Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats. 3. No difference in the slope or the ED50 of the concentration-response curve for the endothelial-independent vasodilators, atrial natriuretic factor and sodium nitroprusside, could be demonstrated between kidneys obtained from the spontaneously hypertensive and the Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats. However, in the spontaneously hypertensive rats, the maximum vasodilator response to atrial natriuretic factor, but not to sodium nitroprusside, was increased. 4. The perfused kidney from the spontaneously hypertensive rat also showed an increase in the maximum but not in the slope or ED50 of the concentration-response curve for vasoconstriction induced by the alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist methoxamine. 5. The involvement of endothelium-derived relaxing factor in mediating the renal vasodilator response to A23187 and acetylcholine was confirmed in experiments performed in perfused kidneys obtained from normotensive Wistar rats. 6. It is concluded that the sensitivity of the kidney to endothelium-derived-relaxing-factor-mediated vasodilatation is not modified in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. This does not, however, exclude a role for the synthesis of endothelium-derived relaxing factor in the maintenance of blood pressure in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. 
Significance of atherosclerotic changes of the ascending aorta during coronary bypass surgery with intraoperative detection by echography. Intraoperative echographic studies of the ascending aorta were carried out on 100 of 222 patients having primary coronary bypass surgeries between May 1987 and December 1988. The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of echographic study in evaluating the nature of atherosclerotic disease of the ascending aorta and its incidence and relationship to perioperative cerebrovascular complications in coronary bypass surgery. It was possible to obtain clear echographic images of the aortic wall in these 100 patients which were divided into two groups according to the degree of the degenerative process. Three of 13 patients (23%) (Group II) with severe atherosclerotic changes, suffered perioperative cerebrovascular complications, and early surgical mortality in 2 patients (15%) was caused by cerebrovascular complications. These complications were not seen in 87 patients with less than moderate atherosclerotic changes (Group I). 
Facial nerve monitoring by monopolar low constant current stimulation during acoustic neurinoma surgery. Electrophysiological characteristics of monopolar low constant current stimulation, and evoked facial muscle responses to such stimulation, were evaluated in 34 cases of acoustic neurinoma. Our study, using stimulus parameters of 0.1-ms-duration pulse wave with 0.5-0.6 mA intensity, revealed that extent of spreading current depends on the current intensity, being about 1 mm from the electrode with 0.5-0.6 mA, and insulation of the electrode prevented the current from spreading through the cerebrospinal fluid, giving a reliable amount of current to the tissue. Evoked facial muscle responses to facial nerve stimulation in the internal auditory meatus and over the pons were analyzed and revealed the following: (1) The responses to stimulation in the internal auditory meatus showed no amplitude attenuation throughout the operation. (2) The responses to stimulation over the pons gradually decreased in amplitude as tumor dissection from the nerve proceeded, especially in large tumors. (3) Anatomical continuity of the nerve was obtained in 100% of small, 91.7% of medium, and 88.2% of large tumors. Our data show that monopolar low constant current stimulation is effective in obtaining the precise anatomical orientation of the facial nerve during tumor removal. 
Hypertrophy of clitoral hood: presenting sign of neurofibromatosis in female child. Although clitoral involvement with neurofibromatosis is rare, all cases previously reported have described clitoral hypertrophy due to neurofibromas of the clitoral corpora. We report on a patient who had localized enlargement of the prepuce only, with no evidence of neurofibromatous infiltration. In all cases, diagnosis of clitoromegaly requires basic chromosomal and endocrinologic evaluation. However, recognition of its association with neurofibromatosis due to either neurofibromas of the genitalia or localized genital hypertrophy may spare the patient an unnecessary or invasive evaluation. Because of an association with urinary tract neurofibromas, the patient with genital involvement should have cystoscopy. Clitoroplasty with sparing of the neurovascular bundle and glans is the preferred method of management of the enlarged clitoris. 
Rapid improvement in a patient with leukocytoclastic vasculitis with secondary mixed cryoglobulinemia treated with cryofiltration. A patient with leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) with secondary mixed cryoglobulinemia was treated by cryofiltration in an effort to stop the progression of the disease despite the use of high dose prednisone. Three cryofiltration procedures within one week were performed on this patient. Clinical assessments made through the course of this therapy and the followup period showed excellent response. Peripheral blood mononuclear cell transformation functions (MNC-TF) were evaluated at the pre-1st and post-2nd cryofiltration treatment. MNC-TF pretreatment were significantly suppressed. Post-2nd cryofiltration, MNC-TF were improved. Our study demonstrates that cryofiltration is a safe and effective treatment of a patient with LCV with secondary mixed cryoglobulinemia, without requiring plasma replacement products. 
Electromechanical dissociation in newborns treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: an extreme form of cardiac stun syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To recognize cardiac stun syndrome and electromechanical dissociation in patients receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), and to define patients at risk. DESIGN: Retrospective review. SETTING: Tertiary neonatal ICU. PATIENTS: Four newborn patients with cardiorespiratory failure who developed signs of cardiac stun syndrome and electromechanical dissociation early in the ECMO course. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Initially, these patients had metabolic acidosis, chest roentgenograms showing pulmonary granularity and moderate cardiomegaly, and symptoms of severe respiratory distress. Cardiac dysfunction was apparent after ECMO was begun, with poor perfusion, pale color, narrow pulse pressure, and tachycardia despite normovolemia. Within 1 to 2 hrs, electromechanical dissociation occurred manifested by the absence of pulse pressure, palpable pulse, cardiac sounds, and apical impulse while on 50% to 70% bypass. All patients survived. INTERVENTIONS: Patients received ECMO, calcium gluconate, sodium bicarbonate, and dobutamine. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with cardiac stun syndrome have symptoms similar to severe respiratory distress syndrome, and may require ECMO support. In the ECMO patient, cardiac stun syndrome and electromechanical dissociation can be confused with low circuit volume, pneumothorax, or cardiac tamponade. Early recognition of electromechanical dissociation may improve care and outcome. Cardiac stun syndrome can be treated successfully with ECMO. 
Second operation after the failure of previous resection for epilepsy. We present our surgical experience with second operations in 15 patients with recurrent intractable partial seizures after resection for epilepsy. The interval from the first operation until the first recurrence of seizures ranged from 1 day to 7 months (mean, 62 days). The interval between the first and second operations ranged from 3 months to 12 years (mean, 38 months). Detailed video-electroencephalographic interictal and ictal recording was performed in all patients (invasive electrodes were used in 11 patients). Ictal onset was shown to be remote from the zone of previous resection in 3 of 15 cases (all 3 extratemporal and in the ipsilateral hemisphere). Recurrent seizures arose from the area of previous extratemporal resection in 2 of 15 patients, and from the area of previous temporal resection in 10 of 15 patients. Both cases of extratemporal recurrences and 3 of the 10 cases of temporal lobe recurrences in the area of previous resection were associated with residual unresected structural lesion. Of the 10 patients with local temporal recurrence, 6 had proven epileptogenicity in the residual mesial structures, and 4 had residual epileptogenicity in the unresected lateral temporal lobe. The patients have been monitored for 8 to 82 months (mean, 18 months) after the second operation: 7 patients (47%) have remained seizure-free and another 5 (33%) have achieved a reduction in seizure frequency of more than 90%. There was no mortality or significant morbidity in this series. We conclude that the extent and distribution of residual epileptogenicity after failed epilepsy surgery are highly variable. 
Immune dysfunction in children after corrective surgery for congenital heart disease. OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of open- and closed-heart surgery on the immune status of infants and children. DESIGN: Prospective study. Data collected before anesthesia and surgery and 2 and 24 hrs after surgery. SETTING: Operating room and pediatric ICU in a children's hospital. PATIENTS: Children undergoing surgery for correction of congenital heart disease (age 3 months to 12 yrs). A total of 31 patients were studied (open-heart surgery, n = 25; closed-heart surgery, n = 6). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Increased neutrophil counts and lymphopenia were observed after both open- and closed-heart surgery. Serum levels of the complement components C3 and C4 were depressed after open-heart surgery, but not after closed procedures. The percentage of T3+ and T4+ lymphocytes, proliferative responses of the lymphocytes and serum immunoglobulin (Ig)G and IgM were decreased from preoperative levels after open-heart surgery. The percentage of T8+ lymphocytes and serum IgA levels did not change. Intraoperative variables and postoperative severity of illness (Pediatric Risk of Mortality score) did not correlate with immune suppression. CONCLUSIONS: The immune system is affected after pediatric cardiac surgery, particularly after open-heart surgery. 
Hypoprothrombinemia and hemorrhage in a surgical patient treated with cefotetan. For 4 days before surgical repair of a diverticulitic colovesical fistula and for 6 days after, a 63-year-old man was treated with 2 g of intravenous cefotetan disodium every 12 hours for associated urosepsis with bacteremia. Postoperatively, the patient followed a diet of intravenous nutrition only. Uneventful convalescence was interrupted by signs of sudden major blood loss, accompanied by prolonged prothrombin time. After stabilization with packed red blood cells, fresh plasma, crystalloids, and parenteral vitamin K, laparotomy revealed a huge intra-abdominal clot, which was evacuated. This case illustrates the risk of unexpected hypoprothrombinemia and hemorrhage in a cefotetan-treated surgical patient who demonstrated none of the usual comorbid conditions generally described in patients with antibiotic-induced hypoprothrombinemia. Like cefamandole nafate, cefoperazone sodium, moxalactam disodium, and other cephalosporins containing the methylthiotetrazole side chain, cefotetan appears to pose an unusual risk of major bleeding. 
Prolongation of the pharmacologic effect of intrathecal meperidine by the use of a lipid solution of it. The possibility of prolonging the effect of intrathecally injected meperidine by the use of a lipid solution was examined in this study. An aqueous solution of 5% meperidine HCl, 250 micrograms/kg, and an equimolar solution of meperidine dissolved in iophendylate (Pantopaque) were injected subarachnoidally in two groups of rabbits (n = 9 in each) with chronically implanted catheters in the subarachnoid space at the level of L7-8. The effect of each injection was assessed by evaluation of the pain threshold in the animal's hind limbs and of the degree of motor blockade produced. The duration of analgesia and of motor blockade were significantly longer when the lipid solution was used. Six of nine animals that received the aqueous solution of 5% meperidine HCl exhibited temporary signs of agitation (i.e., biting of hind limbs). None of the animals given the lipid solution of the drug did. The findings are attributed to the slow release of meperidine from the lipid phase that serves as a drug depot in the cerebrospinal fluid. The approach presented is suggested as a basis for the development of lipid solutions that might prolong the duration of spinal analgesia produced by a single intrathecal injection. 
Long-term maintenance treatment of reflux esophagitis with omeprazole. Prospective study in patients with H2-blocker-resistant esophagitis. Thirty-four patients with H2-blocker-resistant reflux esophagitis subsequently healed by 40 mg omeprazole daily entered a maintenance study with 20 mg omeprazole. In 31 evaluable cases the observation period was at least 12 months (mean 24 months). Esophagitis remained in remission in two thirds of patients despite dose reduction. Relapses of esophagitis occurred in 10 cases within six months, which rapidly healed by increasing the omeprazole dose to 40 mg. No further recurrence with 20 mg omeprazole was found later than six months. Peptic strictures primarily requiring repeated dilatation in six patients during healing with omeprazole did not reappear while on omeprazole maintenance. Major side effects that could be attributed to omeprazole were not observed. Gastrin levels remained within or slightly above the normal range in the vast majority. It is concluded that omeprazole maintenance treatment in severe reflux esophagitis is an effective and safe therapy. 
Lipid and lipoprotein profiles relate to peak aerobic power in spinal cord injured men. The relationship between peak VO2 and serum lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins was assessed in nine traumatic spinal cord injured (SCI), active, male volunteers. Mean (SD) age, height, and weight were 30.6 (11.6) yr, 171.1 (11.3) cm, and 74.2 (12.5) kg, respectively. Peak VO2 (X = 2.13 l.min-1) was assessed by a graded arm-crank test to maximum, percent body fat (X = 28.7%) by densitometry, and lipid profile by measures of serum triglycerides, total cholesterol (TC), high and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C and LDL-C, respectively), apolipoproteins (apoA-1, apoB), and various ratios of lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins. Significant inverse relationships emerged between peak VO2 and TC/HDL-C (r = -0.86; P less than 0.01), apoB/apoA-1 (r = -0.75; P less than 0.05), triglycerides (r = -0.73; P less than 0.05), and LDL-C/HDL-C (r = -0.72; P less than 0.05). Direct correlations (P less than 0.05) were demonstrated between peak VO2 and apoA-1/apoB (r = 0.71) and HDL-C/apoA-1 (r = 0.64). The present results indicate that, for active, mid-to-lower thoracic SCI men, the putative atherogenic and antiatherogenic lipid, lipoprotein, and apolipoprotein indices are significantly related to peak VO2 in a manner similar to that described for the able-bodied. These findings indicate the relevance of aerobic fitness assessment in planning CHD prevention strategies for the SCI. 
Potentiating effect of ribavirin on the in vitro and in vivo antiretrovirus activities of 2',3'-dideoxyinosine and 2',3'-dideoxy-2,6-diaminopurine riboside. 2',3'-Dideoxyinosine (DDI) and 2',3'-dideoxy-2,6-diaminopurine riboside (ddDAPR) are potent and selective inhibitors of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication in MT-4 cells. They are also inhibitory to the transformation of C3H/3T3 cells by Moloney murine sarcoma virus (MSV). In vivo, they are only marginally effective in delaying MSV-induced tumor formation, and mortality associated therewith in newborn NMRI mice. When combined with ribavirin, DDI and ddDAPR become much more effective in inhibiting MSV and HIV replication in vitro and MSV-induced tumor formation in vivo. These observations point to the potential role of ribavirin in potentiating the anti-HIV activity of DDI in AIDS patients. 
Steroid-induced weakness in patients with primary brain tumors. Clinically significant steroid myopathy (SM) occurred in 23 (10.6%) of 216 adult patients with primary brain tumors who received 2 or more continuous weeks of daily dexamethasone therapy. SM occurred over a wide range of peak and cumulative doses of dexamethasone as well as a wide range of periods of continuous treatment. This was not an entirely random event, however, as two-thirds of the patients developed their weakness during the 9th through the 12th week of continuous dexamethasone treatment. The risk of developing SM was significantly lower in patients taking phenytoin than in patients who were not taking anticonvulsants. The only other patient or treatment factor associated with SM was a possible direct correlation with the appearance of a cushingoid body habitus. In this retrospective review, the occurrence of SM had a significant negative impact on the quality of life of all affected individuals. As expected, patients who tolerated a reduction in their steroid dose improved, while other patients suffered the combined effects of tumor progression and worsening myopathy. Substituting a nonfluorinated glucocorticoid for dexamethasone is probably advisable if neuro-oncology patients affected by SM cannot be weaned from the steroids. 
GABA antagonism reverses hypoxic respiratory depression in the cat. We assessed the role of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as a potential causative agent of hypoxic respiratory depression by monitoring the response of the phrenic neurogram to systemic infusion of the GABA antagonist bicuculline (0.01 mg.kg-1.min-1) under control conditions and during isocapnic brain hypoxia produced by CO inhalation in separate groups of anesthetized, glomectomized, vagotomized, paralyzed, and ventilated cats with blood pressure held constant. The maximum effect of bicuculline in subseizure doses in control cats was to increase minute phrenic activity to 151 +/- 14% of preinfusion values. Infusion was continued until seizure activity was seen in the electroencephalogram. A 53% decrease of arterial O2 content resulted in a marked reduction of both peak phrenic amplitude and phrenic firing frequency to 16 and 64% of control values, respectively. Infusion of bicuculline while the level of hypoxia was maintained constant restored both peak phrenic amplitude and phrenic firing frequency to prehypoxic levels. The maximum effect of bicuculline was to increase minute phrenic activity to 123 +/- 13% of the prehypoxic value. These results suggest that although GABA has only a modest role in determining the output of the control phrenic neurogram, a significant portion of the phrenic depression that occurs during hypoxia can be attributed to inhibition of respiratory neurons by GABA. 
Factor XI deficiency in Ashkenazi Jews in Israel. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Severe factor XI deficiency, which is relatively common among Ashkenazi Jews, is associated with injury-related bleeding of considerable severity. Three point mutations--a splice-junction abnormality (Type I), Glu117----Stop (Type II), and Phe283----Leu (Type III)--have been described in six patients with factor XI deficiency. Clinical correlations with these mutations have not been carried out. We determined the relative frequency of the mutations and their association with plasma levels of factor XI clotting activity and bleeding, analyzing the mutations with the polymerase chain reaction and restriction-enzyme digestion. RESULTS. The Type II and Type III mutations had similar frequencies among 43 Ashkenazi Jewish probands with severe factor XI deficiency; these two mutations accounted for 49 percent and 47 percent, respectively, of a total of 86 analyzed alleles. Among 40 of the probands and 12 of their relatives with severe factor XI deficiency, patients homozygous for Type III mutation had a significantly higher level of factor XI clotting activity (mean [+/- SD] percentage of normal values, 9.7 +/- 3.8 percent; n = 13) than those homozygous for Type II mutation (1.2 +/- 0.5 percent, n = 16) or compound heterozygotes with Type II/III mutation (3.3 +/- 1.6 percent, n = 23), as well as significantly fewer episodes of injury-related bleeding. Each of these three groups had a similarly increased proportion of episodes of bleeding complications after surgery at sites with enhanced local fibrinolysis, such as the urinary tract, or during tooth extraction. CONCLUSIONS. Type II and Type III mutations are the predominant causes of factor XI deficiency among Ashkenazi Jews. Genotypic analysis, assay for factor XI, and consideration of the type and location of surgery can be helpful in planning operations in patients with this disorder. 
Unilateral aortofemoral bypass: a safe and effective option for the treatment of unilateral limb-threatening ischemia. To determine whether unilateral aortofemoral (AUF) bypass is a safe and effective option for the treatment of unilateral limb-threatening ischemia in patients with aortic or bilateral iliac occlusive disease, we reviewed the results of 42 AUF bypasses performed using polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in patients operated on for limb salvage; 11 (26%) of the patients also underwent femoropopliteal or femorodistal (FP/D) bypasses. The indications for surgery were tissue necrosis or ulceration in 18 (43%) patients and rest pain in 17 (40%) patients. The 5-year primary graft patency and limb salvage rates for AUF bypass were 74% and 84%, respectively. The perioperative mortality rate was 5%. There were no significant differences in the primary graft patency or limb salvage rates in patients who underwent AUF bypass with or without FP/D bypass. Only 3 of 41 (7%) AUF bypass patients required subsequent femorofemoral bypass. We conclude that: (1) AUF bypass is a safe and effective surgical option in patients with unilateral limb-threatening ischemia and aortic or bilateral iliac occlusive disease; (2) the routine performance of an aortobifemoral or axillobifemoral bypass in patients with unilateral limb-threatening ischemia may be unnecessary; and (3) AUF bypass facilitates the combined inflow and infrainguinal operations that are frequently required for limb salvage in these patients. 
Lithotripsy versus cholecystectomy for management of gallstones. A decision analysis by Markov process. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is a new treatment method that effectively distintegrates radiolucent gallstones and is associated with a low complication rate. Using the model of a Markov process for decision analysis, survival and costs under four possible strategies to treat gallstones were compared: expectant management with cholecystectomy (EC) or lithotripsy (EL) reserved for symptomatic gallstones; prophylactic cholecystectomy (PC) or lithotripsy (PL) for all gallstones. Life expectancy for the different strategies varies by few days. Only if high annual rates of pain and complication occurred in subjects with silent gallstones would both prophylactic procedures marginally increase life expectancy. Prophylactic cholecystectomy then would be more cost-effective than prophylactic lithotripsy. Expectant strategies remain much cheaper than prophylactic management over a broad range of probability values and procedural costs. Expectant use of lithotripsy costs less than cholecystectomy. A low success rate of lithotripsy would raise the direct costs of lithotripsy above those of cholecystectomy but leave total costs of both strategies in the same order of magnitude. Lithotripsy appears to be a feasible alternative to treat symptomatic but not asymptomatic gallstones. 
Restricted V gene usage in T-cell lymphomas as detected by anti-T-cell receptor variable region reagents. Monoclonal antibodies reactive with variable regions of the human T-cell receptor (TCR) may be used to detect populations of T lymphocytes with restricted V gene usage. The authors have studied a series of 44 T-cell lymphomas with a panel of seven reagents reactive with four different TCR beta-chain variable region families. The authors found that, with this limited panel, restricted V gene usage of the neoplastic cells could be demonstrated in 29% of TCR-positive lymphomas. Whereas this is somewhat higher than expected, no preferential use of specific families could be demonstrated. An additional, unexpected finding was that most large cell T-cell lymphomas did not express TCR despite the presence of cytoplasmic CD3. The findings indicate that with a somewhat expanded panel it should be feasible to demonstrate restricted V gene usage as an indicator of clonality in a majority of T-cell lymphomas in a manner similar to the application of anti-immunoglobulin subclass antibodies in the diagnosis of clonal B cell proliferations. 
Severe neurologic toxicity induced by cyclosporine A in three renal transplant patients. Cyclosporine A (CyA) is a potent immunosuppressive agent that is used in organ transplantation and in a variety of immunological diseases. It has a variety of adverse side effects, some of which can be serious and even life-threatening. CyA-associated neurotoxicity is generally mild, consisting of fine tremor. However, more complex neurologic abnormalities, including motor spinal cord and cerebellar syndromes, have rarely been described in bone marrow and liver transplant patients. Renal transplant patients have been spared from such CyA-induced toxicity. In this report, three renal transplant patients are described who developed complex and severe neurologic toxicity in the setting of therapeutic blood levels of CyA, which was completely reversible on discontinuation of the drug. No patient had a prior history of neurological or psychiatric dysfunction and there was no evidence of known psychoactive substance abuse. The toxicity was manifested as flaccid hemiparesis in one and dementia in a second patient. The third patient developed a previously unreported Guillain-Barre-like syndrome consisting of an ascending motor neuropathy. One patient developed reversible lesions involving the cerebral white matter. Whereas similar complex neurologic syndromes have been confined to patients who are intensely immunosuppressed, often debilitated, and have toxic levels of the drug, these three patients serve to emphasize that complex neurotoxicity can occur in stable patients who have therapeutic levels of CyA. Given the use of CyA in an ever-expanding list of disease processes, an appreciation of these potential neurologic syndromes is of paramount importance. At present, CyA-induced neurologic disease remains a diagnosis of exclusion. 
Palliation of proximal malignant biliary obstruction by endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion. For four years up to December 1987, 190 patients (median age 73 years) with proximal malignant biliary obstruction were treated by endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion. Altogether 101 had cholangiocarcinoma, 21 gall bladder carcinoma, 20 local spread of pancreatic carcinoma, and 48 metastatic malignancy. Fifty eight patients had type I, 54 type II, and 78 type III proximal biliary strictures (Bismuth classification). All patients were either unfit or unsuitable for an attempt at curative surgical resection. A single endoprosthesis was placed initially, with a further stent being placed only if relief of cholestasis was insufficient or sepsis developed in undrained segments. The combined percutaneous-endoscopic technique was used to place the endoprosthesis when appropriate, after failed endoscopic endoprosthesis insertion or for second endoprosthesis placement. Full follow up was available in 97%.Thirteen patients were still alive at the time of review and all but one had been treated within the past six months. Initial endoprosthesis insertion succeeded technically at the first attempt in 127 patients, at the second in 30, and at a combined procedure in a further 13 (cumulative total success rate 89% - type I: 93%; type II: 94%; and type III: 84%). There was adequate biliary drainage after single endoprosthesis insertion in 152 of the 170 successful placements, giving an overall successful drainage rate of 80%. Three patients had a second stent placed by combined procedure because of insufficient drainage, giving an overall successful drainage rate of 82% (155 of 190). The final overall drainage success rates were type I: 91%; type II: 83%; and type III: 73%. The early complication rates were type I: 7%; type II: 14%; and type III: 31%. 
The role of ultrasound in evaluation of patients with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein: a review. Accumulated experience with the sonographic detection of spina bifida and its associated fetal cranial changes indicates that nearly all these fetuses may be identified by ultrasound examination alone. A review of data from multiple centers shows that a complete and detailed, normal ultrasound is an appropriate basis for a reduction of at least 95% in the maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP)-based risk for neural tube defects. The use of this adjusted risk in patient counseling before amniocentesis may lower the rate of the procedure with no significant loss of diagnostic sensitivity. Among patients with elevated MSAFP, the rate of abnormal cytogenetic findings in fetuses with no abnormalities detected at ultrasound appears to be near 0.61%. Furthermore, the spectrum of abnormal cytogenetic results appears to differ from that associated with increased maternal age, in that the incidence of sex chromosome abnormalities is higher and that of Down syndrome is lower. 
Metabolic aspects of protection by glycine against hypoxic injury to isolated proximal tubules. To clarify the roles of butyrate and acylglycine formation in hypoxic proximal tubule cell injury and protection by glycine and to test the contribution of iodoacetate-suppressible metabolism to protection, (1) it was determined whether protection by glycine is fully expressed when glucose, lactate, alanine, and butyrate are replaced by alpha-ketoglutarate as the sole substrate for the tubules, (2) butyrate metabolism and acylglycine formation were directly measured in control and hypoxic preparations, and (3) it was assessed whether injury produced by iodoacetate, a potent inhibitor of glycolytic metabolism, is subject to protection by glycine. Susceptibility to hypoxic injury in medium with alpha-ketoglutarate as the sole substrate was similar to that seen in medium containing glucose, lactate, alanine, and butyrate. Tubules in alpha-ketoglutarate medium showed high degrees of protection by glycine against injury produced by 30-min of hypoxia, by iodoacetate alone, and by iodoacetate combined with hypoxia. Protection did not require preservation of cell ATP or glutathione. In glucose-lactate-alanine-butyrate medium, butyrate, measured by gas chromatography, was rapidly metabolized by oxygenated tubules and fully accounted for basal rates of oxygen consumption. Butyrate utilization stopped during hypoxia. Neither aspect of butyrate metabolism was altered by glycine. Formation of acylglycines was assessed by gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy. In preparations treated with glycine, butyrylglycine was detected under both oxygenated and hypoxic conditions; the quantities, however, were small and no other acylglycines were found. These observations indicate that protective effects of glycine are independent of short-chain acylglycine formation and glycolytic metabolism. 
Clostridial mycotic aneurysm of the suprarenal abdominal aorta. Clostridial mycotic aneurysms are unusual. We therefore record a fatal case of a ruptured clostridial mycotic aneurysm of the suprarenal aorta which developed several weeks after the resection of a segment of gangrenous small bowel. 
Low serum levels of alpha-interferon, gamma-interferon, and interleukin-2 in alcoholic cirrhosis. The existence of cellular immune deficit in alcoholic cirrhosis, together with the role of alpha- and gamma-interferon and interleukin-2 in the immune system, led us to compare serum levels of these immune system mediators in a group of 40 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis classified according to Child-Pugh's grade of severity of liver disease and 23 healthy volunteers. Serum levels of alpha-IFN, gamma-IFN, and IL-2 were significantly depressed in alcoholic cirrhotics, with no significant differences between the different degrees of hepatic damage. The results suggest a profound alteration in the immune system of alcoholic cirrhotics, which may contribute to the development of the disease and the accompanying immune system deficit. 
Antithrombotic therapy for deep arterial injury by angioplasty. Efficacy of common platelet inhibition compared with thrombin inhibition in pigs. BACKGROUND. Platelet-thrombus formation is a complication of arterial wall deep injury by balloon angioplasty that may lead to acute arterial occlusion and may contribute to restenosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Because common platelet-inhibitor drugs with a heparin bolus (100 units/kg) may be effective in inhibiting platelet-thrombus formation after arterial angioplasty, these were compared with a bolus of heparin alone (control), the specific thrombin inhibitor hirudin (1.0 mg/kg), and saline (hirudin control) in normal pigs after angioplasty of the common carotid arteries. In the presence of deep arterial wall injury (injury exposing the media), indium-111-labeled platelet deposition (x 10(6)/cm2) was 68.8 +/- 12.3 and 48.1 +/- 16.9 in the control animals. This was significantly reduced by pretreatment with low-dose aspirin (1 mg/kg/day), by high-dose aspirin (20 mg/kg/day) plus dipyridamole, and especially by thrombin inhibition with hirudin. Treatment regimens with aspirin alone (20 mg/kg/day), dipyridamole alone, or sulfinpyrazone were ineffective. Likewise, the incidence of mural thrombosis was 75% and 80% in deeply injured arteries of controls and was significantly reduced to 46% with aspirin plus dipyridamole, 25% with low-dose aspirin, and 0% with hirudin. The incidence of mural thrombosis was unchanged with high-dose aspirin (69%), dipyridamole (90%), or sulfinpyrazone (92%). This mural thrombosis could not be identified by angiography. In the presence of mild injury (deendothelialization), platelet deposition was low (less than 10 x 10(6)/cm2, a single layer) and was not changed by any therapy, including hirudin. CONCLUSIONS. These therapies do not affect platelet adhesion to deeply or mildly injured artery. These data suggest a greater role for thrombin inhibition than with thromboxane or cyclooxygenase inhibition in the pathogenesis of platelet-rich mural thrombosis after deep injury during angioplasty. Antithrombotic therapy for arterial thrombosis by thrombin inhibition appears promising. 
Dual effects of N-ethylmaleimide on ethanol-induced gastric lesions in rats. The effects of N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), a sulfhydryl (SH) blocker, on ethanol-induced gastric lesions were investigated in rats by varying the route of administration. Oral administration of acidified ethanol (60% ethanol in 150 mM HCl, 1 ml) produced hemorrhagic bandlike lesions in the gastric mucosa. Pretreatment of the animals with orally administered NEM (0.1-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited these lesions (the inhibition was over 80% at 1 mg/kg or greater), and the effects were partially reversed by indomethacin (5 mg/kg, subcutaneous). However, when NEM (10 mg/kg) was given subcutaneously, this agent significantly worsened the lesions. Intragastrically applied NEM produced a dose-dependent reduction of the transmucosal potential difference (PD) and the mucosal nonprotein SH levels, an increase of the volume of gastric contents, and an inhibition of gastric motility, while these parameters remained unaltered after subcutaneous administration of the agent. The microvascular permeability in the mucosa was significantly increased by both oral and subcutaneous administration of NEM (10 mg/kg) but remained unchanged in response to lower doses of orally administered (less than 3 mg/kg). These results suggest that NEM given orally is cytoprotective to the stomach against ethanol, probably by acting as a mild irritant and due to dilution of an irritant and inhibition of gastric motility (muscle relaxation), but when given subcutaneously it aggravates the lesions by unknown mechanisms. 
Salmonella meningitis and infection with HIV. Patients infected with HIV demonstrate increased susceptibility to serious infections with non-typhoidal salmonellae. However, no cases of salmonella meningitis have been reported in this population. We now report three cases of salmonella meningitis which occurred in a population of 1800 patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex at our hospitals. The incidence of meningitis complicating salmonella infection in our HIV-infected population appears to be much higher than that reported in non-AIDS patients (7.5 versus 0.15%). All had cerebrospinal fluid parameters consistent with bacterial meningitis, and two of three revealed organisms on cerebrospinal fluid Gram stain. Two presented with a fulminant illness and died despite therapy; the third developed a brain abscess associated with a relapse of meningitis. Salmonella meningitis should be considered as a cause of acute neurological deterioration in patients at risk for HIV-related disease. Relapses may occur, and mortality is high. 
Early and late geometric changes after carotid endarterectomy patch reconstruction. This study examines the degree and location of vessel wall geometric changes after carotid endarterectomy-vein patch reconstruction. The external diameters of the proximal common carotid, common carotid bulb, and internal carotid arteries were measured during operation with a caliper after 349 carotid endarterectomies. There were 309 saphenous vein reconstructions, 31 synthetic patch reconstructions, and 9 primary closures. One or more B-mode ultrasound studies with cross-sectional views for common and internal carotid cursor measurements were performed from 3 months to 5 years after operation. The intraoperative-to-postoperative common carotid diameters were unchanged for the three types of reconstructions. The internal carotid diameters increased 20% to 30% for both the vein and synthetic patched arteries. This dilation was present at 3 and 6 months and progressed slightly over 5 years. Wall thickening greater than or equal to 1 mm was present in 62% of the carotid endarterectomies, with concentric stenosis in 3% and eccentric stenosis in 59%. Eccentric stenosis was present at 3 to 6 months, located on the endarterectomized posterior-medial wall of the common and internal carotid arteries, was always less than 50%, and changed very little over 5 years. No aneurysms or internal carotid occlusions were identified. Carotid endarterectomy-vein patch reconstruction results in early, mild, nonaneurysmal dilation of the internal carotid patched segment, frequent mild eccentric restenosis, and rare hemodynamically significant concentric restenosis. 
Gastroesophageal reflux in the older child: presentation, response to treatment and long-term follow-up. Much attention has been focused on the natural history of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in neurologically normal infants which generally resolves by two years of age. In contrast, little is known of the outcome of GER diagnosed in normal older children. The charts of 32 children (21 males) without neurologic or esophageal anatomic abnormalities, age 3.5 to 16 years (mean = 9.8) at the time of diagnosis, were reviewed. Diagnosis was based on suggestive presenting symptoms and evaluation of prolonged intraesophageal pH monitoring. Esophagitis was diagnosed by histologic criteria in 16 of the 32 patients. Medical treatment consisted of prokinetic agents (metoclopramide, bethanechol) and H2-receptor antagonists. After a one to eight year follow-up period (mean +/- SD - 3.4 +/- 2.1), the symptoms in 13 children had resolved or were sufficiently improved to discontinue medication. In 13 patients, symptoms were improved but medication was required for adequate control. Four children were symptomatic without improvement in spite of medical therapy and two others required fundoplication for continued severe symptoms and refractory esophagitis. In summary, less than 50% of otherwise normal older children with GER undergo spontaneous resolution of marked improvement in symptoms and the remainder require continued long-term medical and/or surgical management. 
Neurofibrillary tangles in dementia pugilistica are ubiquitinated. Ubiquitin, a protein thought to be involved in the ATP-dependent non-lysosomal degradation of abnormal proteins, has already been identified as a component of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease. We have examined ubiquitin immunoreactivity in a unique collection of brains from 16 ex-boxers including 11 with dementia pugilistica. Neurofibrillary tangles of dementia pugilistica were labelled with an affinity purified antiserum to ubiquitin, and BF10, a monoclonal antibody to a neurofilament epitope. 
Information and referral service usage among caregivers for dementia patients. Questionnaires were mailed to 257 callers of a toll-free telephone "helpline" specializing in Alzheimer's disease and related dementing illnesses; 125 (48.6%) were completed and returned. On the average, 3.94 requests for information were made per call. The most common requests concerned services delivered to the home, general information about dementia, information about adult day care, and support group information. Results indicated that a telephone-based information and referral helpline is useful in disseminating knowledge about resources to caregivers of older community-residing adults with cognitive impairment. 
Effect of intrathoracic pressure on plasma arginine vasopressin levels. Abdominal distention during pneumoperitoneum results in a marked increase in plasma arginine vasopressin levels, which has been ascribed to an increase in intrathoracic pressure. Because of this relationship, tense ascites could contribute to nonosmotic release of antidiuretic hormone, to the development of hyponatremia, and eventually to further ascites formation. The effect of pneumoperitoneum, thoracocentesis, and paracentesis on plasma arginine vasopressin levels was studied in three groups of patients, and the mechanism by which these maneuvers may induce these changes was investigated. Patients with pleural effusion, pneumothorax, or ascites showed a significant increase in plasma arginine vasopressin levels, and thoracocentesis or paracentesis resulted in a decrease in these levels. Plasma vasopressin levels increased significantly during pneumoperitoneum, as did intrathoracic and atrial pressures; the atrial transmural pressure gradient declined. However, no changes in plasma levels of norepinephrine, aldosterone, and renin activity were observed during pneumoperitoneum. Changes in plasma arginine vasopressin levels correlated with the changes in intrathoracic and atrial pressures and transmural pressure gradient. The authors conclude that increased intrathoracic pressure is associated with an increase in plasma arginine vasopressin levels and propose that ascites could be a factor promoting vasopressin release by acting on intrathoracic volume receptors in decompensated cirrhotics. 
Pyoderma gangrenosum associated with systemic lupus erythematosus: response to pulse steroid therapy. Pyoderma gangrenosum in a 35-year-old woman with long-standing systemic lupus erythematosus was treated with pulse steroid therapy. Significant improvement in the ulceration and control of the lupus erythematosus occurred. The unusual association of these disorders is reviewed, and the efficacy of pulse therapy in the treatment of refractory cases of pyoderma gangrenosum is discussed. 
Magnetic resonance imaging signs of optic nerve gliomas in neurofibromatosis 1. We reviewed the magnetic resonance images of four children with neurofibromatosis 1 and orbital optic gliomas. The images showed double-intensity tubular thickening characteristic of perineural arachnoidal gliomatosis, elongation of the nerves, and downward kinking of the nerves in the midorbit. We believe these findings typify the orbital gliomas in patients with this disease. 
Importance of histologic condition and treatment of pediatric cerebellar astrocytoma. Histologic classification and treatment of pediatric cerebellar astrocytomas is an area of controversy. At the Medical College of Wisconsin, 34 patients less than 15 years of age (median, 7.3 years of age) with cerebellar astrocytomas were seen from 1965 to 1988. Effect of histologic condition and treatment on overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) was analyzed. Progression was defined as radiographic evidence of an enlarging mass and/or signs and symptoms indicative of advancing disease. Histologic material was reviewed and classified by the system of Winston and Gilles. Twenty-eight patients had glioma A tumors, and six patients had glioma B tumors. For patients with glioma A (n = 28), 5-year actuarial OS rate was 100%. For patients with glioma B (n = 6), 5-year actuarial OS rate was 41%. PFS rate was 66% and 0% for patients with glioma A and glioma B, respectively. The poorer PFS for patients with B histologic tumors was statistically significant (P less than 0.001). The median time to progression was 36 months and 23 months for patients with glioma A and B, respectively. Patients were retrospectively divided into total resection and observation, total resection and irradiation, subtotal resection and observation, and subtotal resection and irradiation groups, which were composed of 12, 2, 3, and 17 patients, respectively. Five-year actuarial OS rates were 100%, 50%, 50%, and 100%, respectively. PFS rates were 60%, 50%, 33% and 58%, respectively. These data support the Gilles classification as a prognostic tool because patients with B tumors had a higher incidence of disease progression and accounted for all deaths. Postoperative irradiation after subtotal resection seems to be beneficial, but additional investigation, ideally with a prospective randomized trial, will be necessary to firmly establish this. 
One gram of aspirin per day does not reduce risk of hospitalization for gallstone disease. Data from 4524 patients in a randomized, controlled trial of aspirin were analyzed to determine if aspirin reduced the risk for hospitalization for gallstone disease. Aspirin at a dose of 1000 mg/day did not reduce the risk of hospitalization for gallstones. Hospitalization rates for gallstone disease were consistent with national rates, and the data confirmed previous associations of gallstone disease with age, elevated serum triglycerides, obesity, and female gender. 
Retrograde coronary venous administration of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator: a unique and effective approach to coronary artery thrombolysis. Recent studies of interventional therapy by way of the coronary venous system have demonstrated that it can protect acutely ischemic myocardium. To evaluate the efficacy of coronary venous retroinfusion compared with systemic intravenous administration of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), 14 dogs were studied with a copper coil-induced thrombus in the left anterior descending coronary artery. The rt-PA (24,000 fluorescence units/kg) was administered continuously, either intravenously (n = 8) or retrogradely (n = 6), for 30 min beginning 60 min after coronary occlusion. Thrombolysis was determined by repetitive coronary angiography. All dogs were killed 3 h after termination of rt-PA infusion and infarct size was measured by the triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining technique. Complete thrombolysis occurred in five of the six dogs in the retroinfusion group and four of the eight dogs in the systemic intravenous infusion group. Partial lysis was achieved in two dogs treated by intravenous infusion. Lysis did not occur in one dog treated with retroinfusion and in two dogs treated with intravenous infusion. Time to thrombolysis was 13.4 +/- 2.3 min in the retroinfusion group versus 27.8 +/- 4.8 min in the intravenous group (p less than 0.001). Myocardial functional recovery in the ischemic zone measured by two-dimensional echocardiography 60 min after reperfusion was significant only in the retroinfusion group (p less than 0.05). 
Conventional versus thrombolytic therapy in spontaneous (effort) axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis. Effort axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis in young patients has produced long-term disability because of the failure of the thrombosed vein to recanalize. Ten consecutive patients treated in our institution were analyzed. All patients were diagnosed by venography. Four patients received thrombolytic therapy. Three of these had complete resolution and one had partial resolution of the symptoms and thrombus, that was confirmed by venography and duplex imaging. The remaining six patients were treated with conventional anticoagulant therapy. Three of these patients had no resolution, one had complete resolution of both symptoms and thrombus, and two had only partial resolution of symptoms but no resolution of thrombus. Thrombolytic therapy appears to be superior to anticoagulation in the dissolution of symptoms in effort vein thrombosis and should be considered in its management if the diagnosis is made early. 
Multidrug resistance (mdr1) gene expression in adult acute leukemias: correlations with treatment outcome and in vitro drug sensitivity. Resistance to multiple chemotherapeutic agents has been related to the production of P-glycoprotein, a trans-membrane drug efflux pump that is encoded by the multidrug resistance (MDR) gene mdr1. To investigate whether mdr1 could be involved in clinical resistance to chemotherapy in acute leukemias, we have analyzed retrospectively the RNA from adult acute leukemia cells by slot-blot hybridization with a human mdr1 probe. Units of mdr1 expression were defined by reference to drug-sensitive human sarcoma and K562 leukemia cell lines (1 U) and the highly resistant doxorubicin selected leukemia cells K562/R7 (50 U). We studied 41 adult patients with acute leukemias: 5 acute lymphoblastic leukemias, 23 acute myeloid leukemias, and 13 secondary leukemias or blast crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. Expression of 10 U or more of mdr1 was found in 6 of 31 (19%) leukemias at diagnosis, versus 5 of 10 (50%) after relapse from therapy, P = .06. The complete remission rate and in vitro sensitivity to daunorubicin were both correlated with low expression (1 U, v 2 U or more) of mdr1. Among 36 evaluable attempts to induce remission, the complete remission rate was 67% (8 of 12) for patients with undetectable or minimal mdr1 expression (1 U), versus 29% (7 of 24) in patients with 2 U or more of expression, P = .03. In vitro resistance to daunorubicin or other MDR-related drugs was associated with expression of 2 U or more of mdr1 in 11 of 11 cases, while specimens that were sensitive to these agents were negative for mdr1 expression in 5 of 11 cases, P = .03. These data suggest that mdr1 expression contributes to chemoresistance in acute leukemia. Determination of mdr1 gene expression may be useful in designing therapy for patients with leukemia. 
Reduction of central nervous system ischemic injury by monoclonal antibody to intercellular adhesion molecule. Activated leukocytes appear to be directly involved in potentiating ischemic central nervous system (CNS) injury. Adhesion of leukocytes to endothelium is essential for their migration and requires the binding of adhesion receptors of the leukocyte (CD 18) to an intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) on endothelium. Monoclonal antibodies to an ICAM can block leukocyte adhesion and transendothelial migration. To determine the efficacy of anti-ICAM antibody treatment in preserving neurological function after CNS ischemia, two animal models were used. A 1-mg/kg dose of anti-ICAM was given to rabbits 30 minutes before induction of ischemia either in the spinal cord using temporary aortic occlusion or in the brain using intra-arterial microspheres. In this study, treatment with anti-ICAM produced a significant reduction in neurological deficits in the reversible spinal cord ischemia model but not in the irreversible brain ischemia model. This protective effect supports the active role of leukocytes in CNS reperfusion ischemic injury and offers potential for future therapy. 
Extraperitoneal approach for repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms are characterized by dense perianeurysmal fibrosis involving the adjacent organs. Attempts to isolate the aneurysm can lead to operative injuries of these structures, thus increasing the rates of complications and mortality. In the last 12 years 45 patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms underwent aneurysm resection at the Department of Vascular Surgery of the University of Rome. The aneurysm was resected through a standard, midline transperitoneal approach in 39 patients, through a thoracophrenolaparotomy in two patients, and through a left-flank extraperitoneal approach in the last four patients. The extraperitoneal approach simplified aneurysm dissection and aortic clamping with no cases of postoperative morbidity or death. In addition, we reviewed the CT scan findings of 12 patients surgically treated for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. The amount of fibrosis in the anterior wall of the aneurysm was greater than in the left posterolateral aspect (p = 0.008). We conclude that the left-flank extraperitoneal approach is the most anatomically advantageous route for repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
Renal colic. Utility of the plain abdominal roentgenogram. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 85 consecutive symptomatic patients to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of plain abdominal roentgenography (PAR) compared with clinical evaluation alone in diagnosis and treatment of renal colic. With a positive intravenous pyelogram and/or actual stone retrieval used as the gold standard, 72 patients had documented stones. The calculated sensitivity and specificity for PAR were 58% (95% confidence interval, 47% to 69%) and 69% (95% confidence interval, 44% to 94%), respectively. In this population with a stone prevalence of 85%, the positive predictive value of PAR was 91%. A clinical scoring system based on signs and symptoms fared as well as PAR (sensitivity, 73%; specificity, 46%; and positive predictive value, 88%). The strategy of clinical scoring followed by selective use of intravenous pyelography was more cost-effective than strategies using PAR. We conclude that the PAR has low sensitivity and specificity and improves the predictive value only marginally, and its routine use is not cost-effective. 
Rapidly progressive acute retinal necrosis secondary to herpes simplex virus, type 1. A systemically healthy 22-year-old man presented with unilateral acute retinal necrosis (ARN) that featured diffuse retinal whitening throughout the posterior retina, exudative retinal detachment, and a visual acuity of no light perception. Diagnostic vitrectomy revealed necrotic retinal cells containing intranuclear inclusions visible with light microscopy. On electron microscopy, viral particles consistent with a herpes family virus were detected. Culture of the vitrectomy specimen showed herpes simplex, type 1 (HSV 1) and rising convalescent serum ELISA titers to HSV 1 confirmed a recent infection. This case of ARN is unusual for its severity, early macular involvement, and development of exudative retinal detachment. In addition, it represents one of the few reported cases in which HSV 1 has been confirmed by both vitreous culture and serum titers as the etiologic agent. A review of the literature suggests that posterior segment inflammatory conditions secondary to HSV 1 can be associated with exudative retinal detachment, a clinical finding that may help differentiate such conditions from other infectious causes of chorioretinitis. 
Hemorrhage and intracranial hypertension in combination increase cerebral production of thromboxane A2. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: To determine the effects of reduced cerebral perfusion pressures produced by hemorrhage alone or in combination with intracranial hypertension on thromboxane A2 (TxA2) production, we undertook a randomized study in 38 anesthetized, mongrel dogs. Animals were subjected to 30 mins of hemorrhagic shock with normal (group 1) or increased (group 2) intracranial pressure (ICP). Group 1 animals (n = 22) were hemorrhaged to reduce cerebral perfusion pressure to 40 mm Hg for 30 mins. In group 2 (n = 16), cerebral perfusion pressure was reduced by the combination of less severe hypotension and intracranial hypertension (20 mm Hg). Cerebral and systemic hemodynamic measurements were recorded, including cerebral blood flow (sagittal sinus outflow method); ICP; cerebral perfusion pressure; and arterial and cerebral venous concentrations of TxB2 (double-antibody radioimmunoassay technique), the major metabolite of TxA2. Data were obtained at baseline and at the beginning and end of the 30-min shock period. RESULTS: Hemorrhagic shock significantly (p less than .05) decreased cerebral blood flow in both groups. At the beginning of the shock period, cerebral blood flow was higher in group 1 than in group 2 (p less than .05) and venous-arterial differences in TxB2 increased significantly (p less than .05) in group 2, but not in group 1. At the end of the 30-min shock period, venous-arterial levels of TxB2 remained significantly (p less than .05) higher in group 2. CONCLUSIONS: Increased cerebral production of TxA2 during hypotension accompanied by intracranial hypertension may contribute to the severity of neural damage produced by the combination of head trauma and shock. 
Choleriform syndrome and production of labile enterotoxin (CT/LT1)-like antigen by species of Salmonella infantis and Salmonella haardt isolated from the same patient. Isolates of Salmonella infantis from the stool and blood and an isolate of Salmonella haardt from the stool of a patient with choleriform diarrhea produced labile enterotoxin (CT/LT1)-like antigen. Genetic and molecular experiments indicated that the production of CT/LT1-like antigen was chromosomally encoded. 
A case of chronic GM1 gangliosidosis presenting as dystonia: clinical and biochemical studies. Clinical and biochemical studies are reported on a 32-year-old man with GM1 gangliosidosis who presented with a slowly progressive dystonia that began when he was aged 7 years and eventually became almost totally incapacitating at the age of 35. There was only mild intellectual deterioration, but myoclonus, seizures and macular cherry-red spots were never observed. Proton-density and T2-weighted MRI scans showed symmetrical hyperintense lesions of both putamina. No increase of GM1 ganglioside was found in plasma or cerebrospinal fluid, and the metabolism of GM1 ganglioside in cultured skin fibroblasts from the patient was also almost normal, although the residual activity of GM1 ganglioside beta-galactosidase activity was only 10% of normal. These findings suggest that impaired GM1 ganglioside metabolism is not present systemically as it is in the infantile and juvenile types of the disorder, but is mainly confined to the central nervous system in chronic GM1 gangliosidosis. 
Eosinophil activation on biologic surfaces. Production of O2- in response to physiologic soluble stimuli is differentially modulated by extracellular matrix components and endothelial cells. Production of O2- in response to FMLP, TNF, IFN-gamma, platelet activating factor, LPS, substance P, and PMA by human eosinophils in suspension and in contact with polystyrene ELISA plastic (PL) or biologic surfaces was studied. Monolayers of human endothelial cells (HEC) or PL coated with FCS, fibronectin, laminin, collagen types I and IV, fibrinogen, or fibrin were used as biologic surfaces. Only PMA and FMLP stimulated O2- generation by eosinophils in suspension. Eosinophils residing on HEC monolayers, either untreated or treated with LPS, were unresponsive to all stimuli except PMA. PMA induced O2- generation by eosinophils on all surfaces; FMLP on all surfaces but HEC monolayers; TNF and platelet-activating factor only on PL, fibrinogen, and fibrin; LPS and substance P only on PL. PMA was equally effective on eosinophils on surfaces and in suspension, whereas the effect of FMLP was greater on eosinophils on surfaces than on eosinophils in suspension. IFN-gamma was ineffective on any of the surfaces tested. These results indicate that biologic surfaces may profoundly affect the ability of eosinophils to respond with a respiratory burst to physiologically relevant soluble stimuli, the effect varying according to the nature of both the stimulus and the surface. Since the respiratory burst generates products of oxygen reduction that are toxic to several tissue components, it follows that biologic surfaces may modulate eosinophil-induced tissue injury. 
Exacerbation of partial seizures and onset of nonepileptic myoclonus with carbamazepine. A child had two to three generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures per week unresponsive to phenobarbital (PB) and valproate (VPA). Interictal EEG demonstrated left occipital spikes. When carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy was started, he developed very frequent (4-6/day) complex partial seizures (CPS) characterized on ictal EEG by focal right temporal lobe discharges. The seizure exacerbation, which was associated with development of nonepileptic, multifocal myoclonus, resolved 24 h after CBZ was discontinued. The exacerbation occurred with therapeutic CBZ serum levels, but may have been related to the toxic levels of carbamazepine-10, 11-epoxide (CBZE). 
Immunohistochemical evidence of immune responses to tumor-associated antigens in lymph nodes of colon carcinoma patients. The authors investigated by immunohistochemical study the drainage of three tumor-associated antigens in unaffected regional lymph nodes of colon cancer patients. The study was conducted using monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) directed against different epitopes of the tumor-associated glycoprotein, TAG-72 (CC-49, CC-83, B72.3), of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) (COL-4, COL-12), and of the colon-associated antigen, CAA (anti-CAA). The authors detected immunohistochemical reactions of MoAb CC-49 and anti-CAA with antigen-presenting cells (APC), such as peritumoral and sinus macrophages and lymphatic endothelial cells and with specific areas of germinal centers in lymph nodes draining 11 of 24 colorectal carcinomas studied. The corresponding primary tumors expressed the TAG-72 and CAA antigens. No immunostaining was detectable in lymph nodes using the anti-CEA MoAb, even when the primary tumors strongly expressed the specific epitopes. In germinal centers of regional lymph nodes, the immunostaining was often distributed at the periphery with a characteristic crescentic or circular pattern, which strongly suggested the exposure of the specific epitopes defined by MoAb CC-49 and anti-CAA on follicular dendritic cells. This would indicate that these epitopes are selectively recognized and presented to germinal center B-cells. This phenomenon may have clinical and diagnostic implications. 
Effects of immediate postoperative enteral nutrition on body composition, muscle function, and wound healing. Thirty-two patients undergoing bowel resection were randomized to receive either immediate postoperative nasojejunal feeding with full strength Osmolite solution for 56 hours (n = 16) or routine postoperative hypocaloric fluids and gradual reintroduction of diet (n = 16). Body composition changes were measured at 14 days after operation with in vivo neutron activation analysis, the wound healing response by subcutaneous implantation of Gortex tubes, and muscle function by grip strength, maximum ventilatory volume, and stimulation of the ulnar nerve at the wrist. Postoperative fatigue up to 3 months after operation was assessed using a 10-point analogue. Successful immediate enteral nutrition was established in 12 of the 16 patients. Enterally fed patients had a mean daily caloric intake of 1179 +/- 388 kcal/d (mean +/- SD) over the first 4 postoperative days compared with 382 +/- 71 kcal/d for the controls (p less than 0.0001). The amount of hydroxyproline accumulating in the Gortex tubes was also significantly greater (2.5 +/- 1.1 nmol/g tube vs 1.5 +/- 0.8 nmol/g tube; p less than 0.02). However, the amount and composition of the weight lost was not significantly different. Muscle function was not preserved, and postoperative fatigue occurred to an equal extent in both groups. Complications were similar in both groups, except for a preponderance of bowel obstructions in the controls. The time to passage of first flatus and first bowel motion, although shorter in the fed group, did not reach significance (p = 0.07). We conclude that immediate enteral nutrition is feasible and results in an improved wound healing response. 
A double-blind study of the speed of onset of analgesia following intramuscular administration of ketorolac tromethamine in comparison to intramuscular morphine and placebo. A double-blind, randomised, parallel group, placebo-controlled study was performed in 85 patients to compare the speed of onset of analgesia following the intramuscular administration of a single dose of 30 mg of ketorolac tromethamine, 10 mg of morphine or placebo. A new, sensitive, method was used to measure the latency of analgesia. The onset of analgesia was defined by the time taken for the pain intensity score to reach a specified percentage of the baseline value. Twenty-five percent of patients achieving a 50% reduction in baseline pain intensity score appears to be the most appropriate parameter to assess the speed of onset of analgesia of ketorolac and morphine in the postoperative setting. Paired comparison demonstrated that ketorolac had a significantly faster onset of analgesia (p = 0.03) when compared to placebo, whilst comparison of morphine to placebo analgesic latency (p = 0.06) just failed to reach significance. There was no significant difference between the analgesic onset time of ketorolac and morphine (p = 0.73). Intramuscular ketorolac and intramuscular morphine have comparable analgesic onset times in the postoperative pain context. However, the sensitive method of measuring onset of analgesia described, highlights the slow onset of analgesia when analgesics of known efficacy are given by the intramuscular route in the postoperative period. More attention should be given to the speed of onset of analgesia in future assessments of analgesics. 
Intensive chemotherapy induction followed by interferon-alpha maintenance in patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia. In a pilot study, 32 patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with intensive chemotherapy induction followed by interferon-alpha (IFN-A) maintenance. Intensive chemotherapy consisted of three cycles of daunorubicin 120 mg/m2 on day 1, cytarabine 80 mg/m2 daily for 10 days, vincristine 2 mg on day 1, and prednisone 100 mg daily for 5 days (DOAP). Maintenance therapy with IFN-A at a doses of 3 x 10(6) to 5 x 10(6) units/m2 daily was adjusted according to counts and toxicity. The outcome of patients was compared with a matched historic population of 64 patients treated with IFN-A alone. Overall, 60% of patients had a cytogenetic response (partial or complete) with induction chemotherapy, but only eight (25%) had a sustained cytogenetic response with IFN-A maintenance. After a median follow-up of 67 months, the 6-year survival rate of the 32 patients was 58%, compared with 36% for the matched historic group (P = 0.084). The incidence of lymphoid blastic transformation in the two groups was 25% and 48%, respectively (P = 0.10) and durable cytogenetic responses, 25% and 19%, respectively (P = 0.48). In summary, the addition of intensive chemotherapy induction to IFN-A maintenance does not improve the survival rate, incidence of lymphoid blastic transformation, or incidence of durable cytogenetic response compared with the results achieved with IFN-A therapy alone. 
Hepatitis B and human immunodeficiency virus infection in street youths in Toronto, Canada. Hepatitis B and human immunodeficiency virus are transmitted by venereal contact or by the sharing of used needles during drug use. A questionnaire was administered to street youths admitting to prostitution and to a group denying prostitution, as well as to sexually active adolescents who lived with their family and were attending an adolescent medical clinic. The age, gender, race, number of sexual partners, condom use, illicit drug use, anal intercourse and admission to prostitution were recorded for each of the subjects. Serology was obtained for hepatitis B markers and human immunodeficiency virus antibody. Multiple regression analysis was performed to determine the factors which might predict hepatitis B serologic status. A single subject, who admitted to prostitution, was found to be human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive. Seven of 43 (16%) admitted prostitutes compared with 1 of 44 (2%) other street youth and none of 27 controls demonstrated anti-hepatitis B surface antibodies. The higher rate of seropositivity in admitted prostitutes was statistically significant (P less than 0.0097). Two seropositive prostitutes had IgM hepatitis B core antibody suggesting recent infection. Two factors, number of partners (P less than 0.0007) and practice of anal intercourse (P less than 0.05), were identified in the multiple regression analysis as predictive of seropositivity. Thus adolescents who live on the street are at increased risk for becoming infected with hepatitis B virus. The difficulty in ensuring vaccine coverage in this population would support calls for including hepatitis B vaccination as part of childhood immunization. 
A population-based study of ocular abnormalities in premature children aged 5 to 10 years. We studied the prevalence of ocular abnormalities in 528 children born prematurely (less than 1,501-g birth weight, less than 33 weeks' gestational age, or both) in Stockholm County from 1976 to 1981. The control group consisted of 1,047 randomly selected full-term children. Through various searches of the ophthalmic records from the period of 1981 to 1986 of Stockholm County, we found that 134 of the 528 premature children (25.4%) and 121 of the 1,047 full-term children (11.5%) had needed ophthalmic care for different reasons. The prevalence of ocular abnormalities was much higher in premature children than in full-term children: reduced visual acuity of 20/33 or worse in the best eye (21 of 528 [4.0%] and one of 1,047 [0.1%]); myopia (33 of 528 [6.3%] and 18 of 1,047 [1.8%]); anisometropia of 1 diopter or greater (31 of 528 [5.9%] and 15 of 1,047 [1.5%]); strabismus (52 of 528 [9.9%] and 22 of 1,047 [2.1%]); and nystagmus (13 of 528 [2.4%] and one of 1,047 [0.1%]). Children with birth weight less than 1,000 g had the highest rates of ocular abnormalities. We conclude that visual and oculomotor development of premature children should be carefully examined. 
Prolonged relief of neuralgia after regional anesthetic blocks. A call for further experimental and systematic clinical studies. Thirty-eight consecutive patients with neuralgia after peripheral nerve injury were treated with one or two series of peripheral local anesthetic blocks. All patients experienced an initial total relief of ongoing pain for 4-12 h. Evoked pain (hyperalgesia or allodynia), which occurred in 17 patients, was blocked simultaneously with the spontaneous pain. In 18 patients the analgesia outlasted the conduction block and there was a period of complete pain relief of 12-48 h in 13 patients and of 2-6 days in the other 5. In 8 patients there was a second phase of analgesia of 4 h to 6 days duration occurring within 12 h of pain recurrence. Thus, mono- or biphasic prolonged complete analgesia occurred in 25 out of 38 patients. A prolonged analgesia may be the result of a central action of the local anesthetic at the spinal level after intra-axonal incorporation and centripetal axoplasmic transport. To test this hypothesis, an experimental study with [3H]lidocaine was performed in 6 rats. The radioactive local anesthetic was injected into one hind limb foot with the other side serving as a control. Tissue samples from the peripheral nerve, nerve root and the lumbosacral spinal cord segment were analyzed for radioactivity using a scintillation counter technique at various time intervals after the [3H]lidocaine injection. There was a low grade of activity in all samples and no difference between the test side and the control side. Thus these experiments provided no evidence in support of this hypothesis. Various alternative peripheral and central mechanisms are discussed. Further studies specifically directed to these alternatives and with longitudinal controls are prompted. 
Menstrual cycle factors related to increased gastric contractile response to tube feeding. Evidence exists that the ovarian hormones have a modulating effect on gastrointestinal (GI) motility, yet details are sketchy and little attention has been paid to the effect that fluctuating hormone levels might have on women who are receiving enteral feedings. This study compared gastric motility indices in response to tube feedings at two points in the menstrual cycle, concurrently measured ovarian hormone levels, and described three potentially related factors (ie, GI symptoms, uterine cramping pain, reports of daily stressors). Intragastric motility responses to enteral feedings were obtained on 28 women (aged 19-37) during menses and midfollicular phases of two menstrual cycles. Intragastric pressure changes were monitored by an open-tipped cannula method at rest, during and after tube feeding (Ensure, 240 ml at 8 ml/min). Serum estradiol and progesterone levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Women completed a daily diary of symptoms and stressors throughout the two menstrual cycles. Results showed that intragastric pressure amplitudes and frequencies were higher at menses compared with midfollicular recordings. At menses, prefeeding and feeding gastric pressure amplitudes were positively correlated with uterine cramping pain and GI symptoms (ie, nausea). At menses, postfeeding contraction frequencies were also correlated with uterine cramping pain. At midfollicular phase, progesterone levels correlated with gastric motility indices; number of stressors indirectly correlated with gastric motility indices. These data suggest that gastric responses to enteral feeding are influenced by menstrual cycle phase. 
Randomized study of interleukin 2 (IL-2) alone vs IL-2 plus lymphokine-activated killer cells for treatment of melanoma and renal cell cancer. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a continuous-infusion interleukin 2 (IL-2) regimen for patients with metastatic melanoma and renal cell cancer. To investigate the contribution of adoptively transferred lymphokine-activated killer cells, patients were randomized to receive either IL-2 alone or IL-2 plus lymphokine-activated killer cells. Twenty-three patients with renal cell carcinoma and 20 with melanoma were entered into the protocol. There were no objective responses noted in the 38 assessable patients (20 with renal cell carcinoma, 18 with melanoma). Most patients demonstrated progressive disease following one 31-day cycle of weekly continuous-infusion IL-2. Grade I and II toxic reactions, including fever, rash, anorexia, and weight gain, were common and treated symptomatically. Significant in vivo stimulation of lymphokine-activated killer and natural killer cell activity was noted in most patients. This continuous-infusion IL-2 regimen with or without lymphokine-activated killer cells was ineffective in the treatment of melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. 
MRI following severe perinatal asphyxia: preliminary experience. In 30 children suffering from severe perinatal asphyxia an attempt was made to determine the early prognostic signs of severe hypoxic-ischemic brain injury with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Ten early (1-4 days of age), 16 intermediate (2-4 weeks of age), and 38 late MRI (older than 1 month of age) procedures were performed on a 2.35 T MR-system. Severe cerebral necrosis was suspected by T2 hyperintensity of the white matter, with blurred limits to the cortex in early MRI, and was confirmed by T1 hyperintensity of the cortex in intermediate MRI. Severe cerebral necrosis was established at 3 months of age. Of the 11 children with this pattern (group A), 8 had severe and 3 had moderate cerebral palsy on subsequent examination. Thirteen children (group B) had normal late MRI scans; none developed severe cerebral palsy or marked mental retardation. Two children (group C) had focal ischemic lesions. Four children had intracranial hemorrhage (group D). Groups A and B did not differ in the severity of their perinatal histories and findings, suggesting that MRI during the first 3 months is of significant prognostic value. 
Haemodynamic changes during the apnoea test for diagnosis of brain death. Haemodynamic responses to the apnoea test for the diagnosis of brain death were investigated in nine patients with severe head injury or cerebrovascular disease. To prove apnoea, the ventilator was disconnected for ten minutes and oxygen was insufflated to avoid hypoxaemia. No respiratory movement was seen in any patient. Ten minutes after disconnecting the ventilator, PaCO2 was increased to 78 +/- 3 mmHg and pH was reduced to 7.17 +/- 0.02. Adequate oxygenation was maintained in all patients. Cardiac output increased from 4.8 +/- 0.7 to 5.7 +/- 0.8 L.min-1 (P less than 0.05), and mean pulmonary artery pressure increased from 11 +/- 1 to 17 +/- 2 mmHg (P less than 0.01). However, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, pulmonary artery wedge pressure and right atrial pressure did not change. Plasma catecholamines were measured in three patients. Plasma norepinephrine concentrations increased in all three patients but the changes in plasma epinephrine were minimal. These circulatory responses to acute hypercapnia were less than those reported in awake volunteers and in patients during general anaesthesia. However, since plasma norepinephrine concentration increased during the test, some sympathoadrenal response, probably of spinal origin, was present, and may have prevented the direct depressant circulatory effects of acute hypercapnia. In conclusion, the apnoea test did not produce haemodynamic disturbances when respiratory acidosis was limited to a pH 7.17 +/- 0.02 and PaCO2 60-80 mmHg. 
Respiratory and circulatory analysis of CO2 output during exercise in chronic heart failure. BACKGROUND. The output of carbon dioxide (VCO2) is controlled by both hemodynamics and ventilation. To understand VCO2 in patients who have chronic heart failure (CHF), we studied 14 patients who had New York Heart Association functional class III failure by measurements of hemodynamics, ventilation, and arterial and venous blood gases at rest and at 50 W of cycle ergometry exercise. METHODS AND RESULTS. Fick principle analysis of VCO2 showed that because of a limited increase in cardiac output, CHF patients widened their venoarterial CO2 content difference from 4.9 +/- 3.5 ml/dl at rest to 11.1 +/- 4.0 ml/dl with exercise (p less than 0.05). This increase in CO2 content difference was achieved with no change in venous CO2 content (from 54.3 +/- 3.3 ml/dl at rest to 54.5 +/- 4.8 ml/dl at exercise, p = NS); however, there was a decrease of arterial CO2 content (from 49.4 +/- 3.7 ml/dl at rest to 43.4 +/- 2.3 ml/dl with exercise, p less than 0.05). Modeling of the CO2 tension-content relation showed that there would have been a small, nonproportional increase of venous CO2 content as venous CO2 tension increased from 43.2 +/- 1.8 mm Hg at rest to 55.3 +/- 4.2 mm Hg during exercise (p less than 0.05); however, the development of metabolic acidosis during exercise entirely blunted the increase of CO2 content. In contrast, both the shape of the tension-content relation and the acidosis of exercise further influenced the decrease of arterial CO2 content as arterial CO2 tension decreased from 37.0 +/- 2.9 mm Hg at rest to 32.0 +/- 3.4 mm Hg during exercise (p less than 0.05) as a result of excess ventilation. CONCLUSIONS. In CHF patients during exercise, the circulatory limitations imposed by a low cardiac output on VCO2 are compensated by a widened venoarterial CO2 content difference. The content difference is not widened through an increase of venous CO2 content but rather by a decrease of arterial CO2 content caused by arterial hypocapnia and metabolic acidosis. 
Involvement of thin afferents in carpal tunnel syndrome: evaluated quantitatively by argon laser stimulation. The thin afferent nerves were tested quantitatively by determining the thresholds of warmth and pricking pain to argon laser stimulation and by measuring the brain potentials related to pricking pain. In 27 patients with electrophysiologically verified carpal tunnel syndrome these parameters were measured from fingers 3 and 5 on both hands. All patients had had sensory symptoms ranging from 3 months to 25 years. Both the thresholds were elevated (P less than 0.05) at finger 3 compared to measurements from finger 5, and compared to finger 3 in a group of 39 controls. Four patients with symptoms for more than 7 years had thresholds below the control values. The power of the pain-evoked brain potentials elicited from finger 3 was lower (P less than 0.05) compared to finger 5, and compared to the control group (P less than 0.01). No correlations were found between the measured parameters and the clinical electrophysiological investigation. The findings support previous assumptions that chronic low-force compressions cause impairment of intraneural microcirculation, and hence can affect the function of the thin afferents. 
Examination of spinal cord in diseases of the craniocervical junction and high cervical spine. A simple necropsy technique for the removal of the craniocervical junction was devised: a relatively small specimen comprising part of the clivus, the foramen magnum, and cervical vertebral canal is removed in one piece with the medulla and spinal cord inside, and examined systematically after fixation. This method, used in a series of patients with chronic craniocervical instability, allows both good clinicopathological correlations to be made and histological changes in the lower medulla or upper cervical cord segments to be related to sites of extrinsic compression. 
Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas of nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses. An immunohistochemical study. The authors studied the immunophenotype of nine sinonasal lymphomas using a panel of monoclonal antibodies that react with fixed, paraffin-embedded material (EMA, CAM 5.2, CD45, CD37 [MB-1], MB-2, L-26, CDw75 [LN-1], CD45RA [4 KB-5], CD43 [MT-1], and CD45RO [UCHL-1]). There were seven men and two women, with a mean age of 64 years (range, 9-89 years) and median age of 56 years. Three tumors were limited to the nasal cavity, and the other six had multiple sites of involvement, including the nasal cavity (five), antrum (six), ethmoid (two), orbit (two), and hard palate (one). Histologically, one was a lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL), one was small cleaved-cell lymphoma (SCCL), three were mixed-cell lymphomas (MCLs), and four were large cell lymphomas (LCLs). Four cases were T-cell lymphomas (one SCCL, three MCLs), four were B-cell neoplasms (four LCLs), and one was of uncertain lineage (LBL). Angioinvasion, coagulative necrosis, and epitheliotropism were seen in the T-cell lymphomas. Extranasal dissemination was seen in four cases: one LBL that involved the lymph nodes, skin, and testes 15 months after diagnosis; one B-LCL that involved the skin 9 months after diagnosis; and one B-LCL and one T-MCL that involved the gastric mucosa and lung simultaneously with nasal presentation. This study shows a higher predominance of B-cell lymphomas in the sinonasal region than previously reported in Oriental populations. However, the T:B ratio of these lymphomas is still greater than that observed for primary lymph node-based neoplasms. 
The role of serotonin (5HT2) receptor blockade in myocardial reperfusion injury: effects of LY53857 in a canine model of myocardial infarction. The potential protective effects of serotonin receptor antagonism during the process of acute myocardial infarction were studied in anesthetized male dogs, which were subjected to a 90-min left circumflex coronary artery occlusion followed by 5 h of reperfusion. Either vehicle (0.9% NaCl) or the serotonin (5HT2) receptor antagonist LY53857 was infused i.v. at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, followed by a constant infusion of 2 mg/kg/min beginning 5 min before left circumflex coronary artery occlusion and continuing throughout the duration of the ischemia and subsequent reperfusion. Verification of functional 5HT2 receptor antagonism in the circulating blood of the LY53857-treated dogs was monitored throughout the experiments by periodic assessment of ex vivo platelet reactivity to exogenous serotonin. After 5 h of reperfusion, the hearts were excised and analyzed utilizing histochemical staining with triphenyltetrazolium, which demarcates myocardial infarct size and anatomical area of myocardium at risk of infarction. There was not a significant reduction of infarct size with LY53857 treatment: control infarct/area at risk = 38.6 +/- 4.7%, n = 9 LY53857 infarct/area at risk = 33.4 +/- 3.8%, n = 6. Similarly, when myocardial infarct size was analyzed as a function of myocardial collateral blood flow, there were no significant effects of drug treatment on the relationship between collateral blood flow and infarct size. The effects of 5HT on neutrophil activation were determined by measuring the potential ability of 5HT to enhance the chemotactic peptide-induced production of superoxide. 5HT did not activate human neutrophils in vitro and LY53857 had no effect on neutrophil superoxide production. 
Anomalous coronary arteries arising from the aorta associated with sudden death in infancy and early childhood. An autopsy series. Anomalous coronary arteries arising from the aorta are a recognized cause of myocardial ischemia and sudden death. Death has been precipitated by exercise in most cases. We present the results of an autopsy study in which sudden and unexpected deaths associated with coronary anomalies were found in three children (less than 2 years of age). In two cases, death was not associated with exercise. In two case, the myocardium was morphologically normal, and in the third case, there was an extensive recent anterior myocardial infarct with a background of established fibrosis. Coronary artery anomalies may be easily overlooked in this age group because of small vessel size and difficulty in dissection; this is particularly so when there are normally placed ostia. One consequence of this is potential for confusion with sudden infant death syndrome. 
Regular ventricular rhythms in patients with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is a grossly irregular tachycardia. Forty-nine patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who were taking a variety of antiarrhythmic medications including the class IC agents propafenone and flecainide were followed up for a median of 371 days with use of transtelephonic electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring to document symptomatic rhythms. Eighteen patients had 96 episodes of regular tachycardia; the cumulative incidence rate was 25% at 6 months, 33% at 1 year and 41% at 18 months. Eighty of the 96 episodes occurred with a heart rate less than or equal to 180 beats/min and could have been explained by atrial flutter with 2:1 block. However, nine patients had a total of 16 episodes with a rate greater than 180 beats/min that were probably not due to atrial flutter with block; the cumulative incidence rate of these fast regular tachycardias was 14% at 6 months, 17% at 1 year and 25% at 18 months. QRS duration during the first episode of regular tachycardia was significantly longer in patients taking a class IC drug (median 105 vs 90 ms, p less than 0.001 Wilcoxon rank sum test). In contrast to drug therapy with amiodarone or the combination of digoxin and verapamil, the QRS duration of regular tachycardias during class IC therapy was directly related to the tachycardia heart rate (Spearman's rank, p less than 0.01). All episodes of fast, regular tachycardias with a QRS duration greater than 120 ms occurred in patients taking a class IC drug. Clinicians treating patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation should expect a substantial incidence of regular tachycardia in addition to atrial fibrillation. 
Intraosseous vascular malformations of the orbit. Intraosseous vascular malformations are rare benign tumors involving the bones of the orbit. The diagnosis should be considered when a patient presents with an enlarging mass fixed to bone in the upper face, and the characteristic x-ray appearance should be looked for on plain films. Treatment is local excision of the bone containing the tumor and immediate reconstruction with autogenous bone. 
Conjunctival cysts in anophthalmic orbits. Five out of 149 patients (3%) who received an intraorbital implant to prevent or treat the disfiguring symptoms associated with the postenucleation socket syndrome developed intraorbital conjunctival cysts. All five patients had received a secondary implant two 14 months previously. After excision of the cysts four patients required additional surgery for lack of conjunctiva and/or recurrent cyst formation. The clinical findings, mechanism of development, and management of this rare but serious complication of socket surgery are described. 
Respiration-deficient cells are caused by a single point mutation in the mitochondrial tRNA-Leu (UUR) gene in mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes (MELAS). MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes) is a major subgroup of heterogeneous mitochondrial diseases. For identifying a mutation in the mitochondrial gene, we isolated, from the same muscle tissue from a patient with MELAS, cell lines with distinctly different phenotypes: one was respiration-deficient, and the other was apparently normal. Compared with the normal cells, only one A-to-G nucleotide transition at nucleotide 3243 in the tRNA-Leu (UUR) gene was found in whole mtDNA of the respiration-deficient cells. This mutation was also found in eight patients, from unrelated families, who had MELAS in a heteroplasmic manner but was not found in control individuals. Therefore, the single point mutation causes the functional abnormality in the respiratory chain of mitochondria. 
Epidermal growth factor-related transforming growth factors in the urine of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. To characterize epidermal growth factor-related transforming growth factors in the urine of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, gel filtration with Bio-Gel P-30 was performed in seven hepatocellular carcinoma patients and seven sex-matched and age-matched healthy controls. Distinct profiles of soft agar growth assay in the hepatocellular carcinoma patients and the normal controls were seen. Three peaks (A, B and C) in the urine were examined. Peak C in most hepatocellular carcinoma patients was higher than that in healthy controls. Similar profiles were detected with epidermal growth factor radioreceptor assay and cellular DNA synthesis assay. This result might indicate that transforming growth factors with low molecular weight were found in the urine of hepatocellular carcinoma patients. An exceptional HCC patient had an additional peak (A') that corresponded to the high molecular weight protein. We concluded that there were transforming growth factors with functional activity in the urine of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Functional and phenotypic analysis of lymphocytes in head and neck cancer. We compared the phenotype and antitumor effector function of lymphocytes obtained from tumor tissues, lymph nodes, and the peripheral blood of patients with head and neck cancer. Freshly isolated tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes were deficient in CD4+ T cells in comparison with lymph node lymphocytes (LNL) and peripheral blood lymphocytes. A significantly higher CD4/CD8 ratio observed in LNL vs tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and peripheral blood lymphocytes was attributable to both a significant enrichment in CD4+ T cells as well as a decrease in CD8+ T cells. The percentage of natural killer cells (CD3-CD56+) was uniformly low in both tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and LNL. In patients with cervical metastases, LNL contained an increased proportion of CD16+ cells. Tumor-involved lymph nodes were not enriched in the CD8+C11b+ subset of T "suppressor" lymphocytes compared with uninvolved lymph nodes. Also, tumor-involved lymph nodes had significantly fewer CD4+ T cells than did uninvolved lymph nodes. In comparison with peripheral blood lymphocytes, freshly isolated tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and LNL were depleted of cytotoxic effector cells, as indicated by low or absent cytotoxic activity against tumor cell targets. The ability to generate lymphokine-activated killer cells was significantly reduced in LNL in comparison with peripheral blood lymphocytes. In patients with head and neck cancer, depressed local and regional antitumor responses are associated with a deficiency of functional cytotoxic effector cells rather than an increase in suppressor T lymphocytes. 
Survival after neonatal myocardial infarction. These are case reports of two children with structurally normal hearts and with normal coronary arteries, who survived myocardial infarction in the early neonatal period. They are only the third and fourth reported survivors of neonatal myocardial infarction and the first in which hypercholesterolemia is postulated to have played an important role. The most likely cause of the myocardial infarction was thrombosis or thromboembolism. Changes in hemostatic function associated with hypercholesterolemia may be relevant. 
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in the treatment of neonatal respiratory failure. We report 18 consecutive neonates with severe respiratory failure due to pulmonary hypertension treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was begun at 52 +/- 36 hours of age with an arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) of 36 +/- 14 mm Hg despite maximal pharmacologic and ventilator support (inspired fraction of oxygen [FiO2], 0.99 +/- 0.03; respiratory rate, 98 +/- 31/min; and positive inspiratory pressure, 54 +/- 11 cm of water). With initial flows of 130 +/- 17 mL/kg per minute, ventilator settings were reduced to the following: FiO2, 0.30; respiratory rates, 15/min; and positive inspiratory pressure, 24 cm of water. Support using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was gradually reduced to 22% of initial flows and arterial blood samples showed pH 7.48 +/- .05, PO2 of 106 +/- 27 mm Hg, and PCO2 of 36 +/- 5 mm Hg just prior to decannulation. After 107 +/- 45 hours, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was stopped and infants were extubated 61 +/- 53 hours (median, 46 hours) afterward. There was one death (94.4% survival rate); all survivors were discharged and underwent a follow-up examination at 1 to 27 months of age. Complications included two intracranial hemorrhages (one death and one asymptomatic), one patent ductus arteriosus requiring ligation on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, and chronic lung disease in one patient. In selected neonates, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation allows for resolution of pulmonary hypertension, results in improved survival, and is associated with a low incidence of chronic lung disease. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation should be considered in the treatment of severe respiratory failure. 
Self-expandable stainless steel endoprostheses for treatment of malignant bile duct obstruction. The Wallstent biliary endoprosthesis is a mesh of stainless steel that is delivered percutaneously over a 7-French catheter but expands to achieve a 1-cm lumen when released across a bile-duct stricture. The small transhepatic track required makes insertion easier, less painful, and probably safer when compared with plastic stents, and the large internal lumen reduces the rate of occlusion by encrusted bile. Wallstent endoprostheses were inserted under local anesthesia in 41 consecutive patients with malignant obstructive jaundice. Biliary drainage was considered the treatment of choice in all of these patients. The diagnosis was based on biopsy results in 32 patients and on radiologic appearances in nine. The patients were followed up in outpatient clinics for 16 months and had repeated radiologic examinations only if they had symptoms suggesting stent occlusion. No cases of hemobilia due to damaged hepatic vessels occurred. Two patients had septicemia treated with antibiotics. Three patients had recurrent jaundice due to growth of tumor below or above the stents. Endoprosthesis migration was not seen. No cases of stent occlusion due to encrustation of bile occurred. The median survival of patients was 105 days (range, 10-545 days). Our experience shows that Wallstent endoprostheses can be inserted with little discomfort for the patient and with relatively few complications. They provide good palliation in patients with malignant obstructive jaundice. 
Bronchial reactivity and allergy-promoting factors in monozygotic twins discordant for allergic rhinitis. Bronchial reactivity was studied twice in eight monozygotic twin pairs discordant for allergic rhinitis with pollen hypersensitivity, during the winter season (all eight pairs) and during the pollen season (seven pairs). On both occasions, the allergic twins showed significantly higher reactivity than their nonallergic siblings. The results indicate that moderate allergic rhinitis is associated with increased bronchial reactivity. This increased reactivity is an acquired trait; however, bronchial reactivity is not constantly increased in pollen rhinitis and may be normal even during the pollen season. The symptoms of allergic rhinitis usually started in childhood before the separation of the siblings. We could not demonstrate any major differences in exposure to allergens or airway irritants between the siblings. The allergic twins tended to have lower birth weight and insufficient weight increase just after birth. 
A novel enzyme immunoassay for serodiagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection. Helicobacter pylori has recently been implicated as an etiologic agent of gastroduodenal disorders. Comparing the antibody to H. pylori in the sera of patients with that of normal controls by Western blot analysis, a unique antibody was detected in the sera of patients, which reacted with the 25-kilodalton antigen of H. pylori. On the other hand, monoclonal antibody CP3 prepared in the authors' laboratory also recognized the 25-kilodalton antigen of H. pylori. Whether the serum antibody of the patient recognized the CP3 antigen purified by monoclonal antibody CP3 was then examined. Western blot analysis showed that the patient's serum reacted strongly with the affinity-purified CP3 antigen. Using monoclonal antibody CP3, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect CP3 antibody in sera was established. In patients with chronic gastritis and gastric ulcers, the titer of CP3 antibody was significantly higher than in normal controls and correlated with the histological grade of antral gastritis. The detection of CP3 antibody in sera is useful in the diagnosis of chronic gastritis and gastric ulcer associated with H. pylori infection and also in evaluation of the grade of gastritis. 
Comparison of exercise radionuclide angiography with thallium SPECT imaging for detection of significant narrowing of the left circumflex coronary artery. Although quantitation of exercise thallium tomograms has enhanced the noninvasive diagnosis and localization of coronary artery disease, the detection of stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery remains suboptimal. Because posterolateral regional wall motion during exercise is well assessed by radionuclide angiography, this study determined whether regional dysfunction of the posterolateral wall during exercise radionuclide angiography is more sensitive in identifying left circumflex disease than thallium perfusion abnormalities assessed by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). One hundred ten consecutive patients with CAD were studied, of whom 70 had a significant stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery or a major obtuse marginal branch. Both regional function and segmental thallium activity of the posterolateral wall were assessed using visual and quantitative analysis. Left ventricular regional function was assessed objectively by dividing the left ventricular region of interest into 20 sectors; the 8 sectors corresponding to the posterolateral free wall were used to assess function in the left circumflex artery distribution. Similarly, using circumferential profile analysis of short-axis thallium tomograms, left ventricular myocardial activity was subdivided into 64 sectors; the 16 sectors corresponding to the posterolateral region were used to assess thallium perfusion abnormalities in the left circumflex artery territory. Qualitative posterolateral wall motion analysis detected 76% of patients with left circumflex coronary artery stenosis, with a specificity of 83%, compared with only 44% by qualitative thallium tomography (p less than 0.001) and a specificity of 92%. Whereas quantitation of thallium activity increased the sensitivity for detecting left circumflex coronary artery stenosis to 80% with a specificity of 55%, it did not achieve statistical significance when compared with qualitative wall motion analysis. 
Paraganglioma of the cauda equina: case report with magnetic resonance imaging description. The case of a 35-year-old white man with a cauda equina syndrome is presented. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the diagnosis, and radiation treatment successfully treated the condition. 
Relation of risk factor levels in young adulthood to parental history of disease. The CARDIA study BACKGROUND. The relation between self-reported parental disease and risk factor levels was examined in 2,637 black and 2,478 white men and women aged 18-30 years at the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) Study baseline examination (1985-1986). METHODS AND RESULTS. The prevalence of parental disease (at least one parent) in white versus black participants was 44% and 56% for hypertension, 47% and 44% for obesity, 16% and 13% for myocardial infarction, 11% and 17% for diabetes, and 6% and 10% for stroke, respectively. Among these young adults, parental hypertension was associated with higher sex- and age-adjusted systolic and diastolic blood pressure levels. Parental myocardial infarction was associated with higher plasma cholesterol, higher blood pressure levels, and lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in white participants. Parental diabetes was associated with higher fasting blood glucose and insulin levels in all race-sex groups and with higher triglycerides and lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol in black participants only. Parental history of obesity was related to less favorable age- and sex-adjusted lipid levels in white participants and higher blood pressure levels in black participants. Parental history of stroke was associated with higher systolic blood pressure levels in black participants. In general, these differences across family history were predicted only in part by obesity. The prevalence of more than one disease reported in parents occurred more frequently than would have been expected due to chance alone. CONCLUSIONS. These associations between parental disease and risk factors in their adult children probably reflects the impact of both environmental and genetic factors. Parental history may be a useful marker for high risk individuals. 
Noninvasive estimation of the instantaneous first derivative of left ventricular pressure using continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography BACKGROUND. The complete continuous-wave Doppler mitral regurgitant velocity curve should allow reconstruction of the ventriculoatrial (VA) pressure gradient from mitral valve closure to opening, including left ventricular (LV) isovolumic contraction, ejection, and isovolumic relaxation. Assuming that the left atrial pressure fluctuation is relatively minor in comparison with the corresponding LV pressure changes during systole, the first derivative of the Doppler-derived VA pressure gradient curve (Doppler dP/dt) might be used to estimate the LV dP/dt curve, previously measurable only at catheterization (catheter dP/dt). METHODS AND RESULTS. This hypothesis was examined in an in vivo mitral regurgitant model during 30 hemodynamic stages in eight dogs. Contractility and relaxation were altered by inotropic stimulation and hypothermia. The Doppler mitral regurgitant velocity spectrum was recorded along with simultaneously acquired micromanometer LV and left atrial pressures. The regurgitant velocity profiles were digitized and converted to VA pressure gradient curves using the simplified Bernoulli equation. The instantaneous dP/dt of the VA pressure gradient curve was then derived. The instantaneous Doppler-derived VA pressure gradients, instantaneous Doppler dP/dt, dP/dtmax, and -dP/dtmax were compared with corresponding catheter measurements. This method of estimating dP/dtmax from the instantaneous dP/dt curve was also compared with a previously proposed Doppler method of estimating dP/dtmax using the Doppler-derived mean rate of LV pressure rise over the time period between velocities of 1 and 3 m/sec on the ascending slope of the Doppler velocity spectrum. Both instantaneous Doppler-derived VA pressure gradients (r = 0.95, p less than 0.0001) and Doppler dP/dt (r = 0.92, p less than 0.0001) correlated well with corresponding measurements by catheter during systolic contraction and isovolumic relaxation (pooled data). The Doppler dP/dtmax (1,266 +/- 701 mm Hg/sec) also correlated well (r = 0.94) with the catheter dP/dtmax (1,200 +/- 573 mm Hg/sec). There was no difference between the two methods for measurement of dP/dtmax (p = NS). Although Doppler -dP/dtmax was slightly lower than the catheter measurement (961 +/- 511 versus 1,057 +/- 540 mm Hg/sec, p less than 0.01), the correlation between measurements by Doppler and catheter was excellent (r = 0.93, p less than 0.0001). The alternative method of mean isovolumic pressure rise (896 +/- 465 mm Hg/sec) underestimated the catheter dP/dtmax (1,200 +/- 573 mm Hg/sec) significantly (on average, 25%; p less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. The present study demonstrated an accurate and reliable noninvasive Doppler method for estimating instantaneous LV dP/dt, dP/dtmax, and -dP/dtmax. 
Marked differences in immunocytological localization of [3H]estradiol-binding protein in rat pancreatic acinar tumor cells compared to normal acinar cells. [3H]Estradiol can bind to a specific protein in normal rat pancreatic acinar cells. Electron microscopic immunocytochemical analysis has shown this protein to be localized primarily in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Rat exocrine pancreatic tumor cell lines, whether grown in tissue culture (AR42J) or as a tumor mass after sc injection into rats (DSL-2), lacked detectable amounts of this [3H]estradiol-binding protein (EBP), as determined by the dextran-coated charcoal assay. Furthermore, primary exocrine pancreatic neoplasms induced with the carcinogen azaserine contained little or no detectable [3H]estradiol-binding activity. However, electron immunocytochemical studies of transformed cells indicated the presence of material that cross-reacted with antibodies prepared against the [3H]EBP. The immunopositive reaction in transformed cells was localized almost exclusively in lipid granules. Such lipid organelles in normal acinar cells, although present less frequently than in transformed cells, have never been observed to contain EBP-like immunopositive material. Presumably, the aberrant localization of EBP in these acinar tumor cells results in loss of function of this protein, which in normal pancreatic acinar cells appears to exert a modulating influence on zymogen granule formation and the process of secretion. 
Tissue-plasminogen activator for pulmonary embolism resulting in shock: two case reports and discussion of the literature. Two patients with significant relative contraindications to fibrinolysis, and with refractory shock caused by acute pulmonary embolism, who were successfully treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) are reported. The role of rt-PA in the management of pulmonary embolism is discussed, and pertinent literature is reviewed. 
Noninvasive radiological diagnosis of renal vein thrombosis in renal transplantation. Thrombosis of the allograft renal vein is a rare complication of renal transplantation. Of 557 consecutive renal transplants performed between January 1, 1985 and November 30, 1989, 3 cases occurred for an over-all incidence of 0.4%. In 2 cases the diagnosis was made preoperatively with renal scintigraphy and duplex Doppler sonography. No graft was salvaged, despite timely diagnosis in 2 patients. We conclude that the diagnosis of renal vein thrombosis in the renal allograft recipient should be suspected clinically and by the radiographic findings of absent perfusion on renal scintigraphy, and the detection of an arterial signal, albeit abnormal, on duplex Doppler sonography. When diagnosed, nephrectomy appears to be the only treatment. 
Na+ transport in hypertension. Several different lines of argument lead to the conclusion that the Na+ ion is important in hypertension. These include dietary and epidemiological studies, studies on the isolated cells and tissues of hypertensive subjects, and the association of the genetic predisposition to hypertension with abnormalities of cellular Na+ handling. In isolated cells, the most convincing abnormalities have been shown in the Na+ pump, where there is also evidence of a circulating inhibitor of the pump in essential hypertension, although the nature of the agent is still uncertain. The genetic association between essential hypertension and Na+ transport is best represented by alterations in Na(+)-Li+ countertransport in hypertensive subjects and their near relatives, although interpretation is rendered more complex by the influence of nongenetic factors on this system. The demonstrated differences between hypertensive and nonhypertensive subjects in the cellular handling of Na+ have not been integrated into a totally convincing explanation of the ultimate mechanism of the condition. Attention has focused on the possible mechanisms whereby an increase in intracellular Na+ may increase the concentration of cytosolic Ca2+ in the vascular smooth muscle, which is presumed to be a necessary precondition to a chronically elevated peripheral vascular resistance. 
Therapeutic benefits of calcium channel blockers in cyclosporine-treated organ transplant recipients: blood pressure control and immunosuppression. Cyclosporine has dramatically improved the success rates for all forms of organ transplantation. However, its use is complicated by the frequent occurrence of hypertension and reversible nephrotoxicity. The iatrogenic hypertension induced by cyclosporine resembles a low-renin, salt-sensitive form of essential hypertension, which is often controlled with salt restriction and therapies counteracting renal salt acquisition, e.g., diuretics and calcium channel blockers (CCBs). CCBs may also counteract the direct vasoconstrictive effects of cyclosporine, as well as the effects of other vasoconstrictors, such as endothelin or thromboxane, that may be stimulated by cyclosporine. Additionally, CCBs may potentiate the immunosuppression of cyclosporine, yet minimize nephrotoxicity. We demonstrated that the in vitro combination of verapamil and cyclosporine had an additive inhibitory effect on the activation and function of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in several assays of the afferent and efferent limbs of immunologic responses. This additive immunosuppression was not likely to have been related to these drugs' effects on interleukin-2 (IL-2) circuitry, since no additive inhibition of IL-2 production or IL-2 responsiveness was found. There was some additive inhibition of IL-2 receptor expression at the higher concentrations of verapamil and cyclosporine that were tested. Although the combination of verapamil and cyclosporine additively inhibited mitogen-induced 45Ca uptake, the inhibitory effect of cyclosporine appears to be due to an inhibition of lymphocyte activation rather than direct inhibition of calcium flux through the slow calcium channel, suggesting that the two drugs do not have additive effects in depressing the transmembrane flux of calcium. More recently, we have demonstrated that the inactive enantiomer of verapamil, which does not block the slow calcium channel, has identical immunosuppressive capabilities as the active enantiomer. Thus, the antiproliferative effect of verapamil is probably slow-calcium-channel independent and may represent the ability of the drug to interfere with muscarinic, alpha 1-adrenergic, or even opiate receptors on lymphocytes or to block lymphocyte potassium channels. An even better possibility is that verapamil may diminish necessary precursor molecule uptake into lymphocytes, since both the inactive and active isomeric forms of verapamil are capable of diminishing thymidine, uridine, and leucine incorporation into stimulated lymphocytes--necessary for DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis, respectively. These in vitro observations may have clinical applicability, as early studies demonstrate reduced rejection rates of cyclosporine-treated transplant patients receiving CCBs. Consequently, CCBs are important medications to be considered for use in cyclosporine-treated organ transplant recipients. 
Beneficial effect of long-term beta blockade after acute myocardial infarction in patients without anterograde flow in the infarct artery. Previous studies have shown that long-term survival after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is improved by beta-adrenergic blockade and anterograde flow in the infarct artery. This study was done to assess the influence of beta blockade on mortality in survivors of AMI without anterograde flow. Over 9.5 years, 113 subjects (87 men and 26 women, aged 26 to 66 years) with AMI and no anterograde flow in the infarct artery and no disease of the other arteries were medically treated for 48 +/- 28 (mean +/- standard deviation) months. Forty-six patients received long-term beta blockade (group I), whereas 67 did not (group II). The groups were similar in age, sex, cardioactive medications, left ventricular performance and infarct artery. Of the 46 group I subjects, 1 (2%) died of cardiac causes; in contrast, 20 (30%) of the group II patients died of cardiac causes (p = 0.007 compared with group I). Thus, in survivors of AMI without anterograde flow in the infarct artery, mortality is markedly reduced by long-term beta blockade. 
Intensive sequential chemotherapy with mitoxantrone and continuous infusion etoposide and cytarabine for previously treated acute myelogenous leukemia. Intensive sequential chemotherapy with mitoxantrone, 12 mg/m2/d on days 1 through 3, etoposide, 200 mg/m2/d as a continuous infusion on days 8 through 10, and cytarabine, 500 mg/m2/d as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 3 and 8 through 10 was administered to 72 patients aged less than 60 years with previously treated acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Forty patients had refractory AML (nonresponse to prior therapy, early first relapse, or multiple relapse) and 32 had late first relapse. Sixty-one percent of patients, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) ranging from 49% to 72%, achieved complete remission (CR), including 45% (CI: 30% to 62%) of refractory patients and 81% (CI: 64% to 93%) of late first relapse patients. Twenty-nine percent of patients (CI: 19% to 41%) did not respond to therapy and 10% (CI: 4% to 19%) died from therapy-related toxicity. Median duration of aplasia was 30 days. Nonhematologic WHO grade 3 or more toxicity included sepsis (57% of patients), vomiting (10%), mucositis (35%), diarrhea (7%), skin rash (6%), and hyperbilirubinemia (11%). Postinduction therapy was attempted in 36 of 44 CR patients: 16 of them received a second course of the same regimen, 7 received maintenance chemotherapy, 4 underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT), and 9 allogeneic BMT. At a median follow-up of 20 months, 23 of the 44 complete remitters have relapsed, 1 to 14 months after achievement of CR, including 19 of 31 patients not undergoing BMT. Median survival is 7 months with 16% (CI: 4% to 28%) projected survival at 47 months. Median disease-free survival is 6 months with 21% (CI: 3% to 39%) of CR patients projected to remain disease-free at 46 months. Twenty-six percent (CI: 13% to 43%) of the evaluable patients who did not receive transplantation had inversion of CR duration. Among patients younger than 50 years, there was no significant difference in disease-free survival between patients receiving postinduction chemotherapy and those receiving BMT. We conclude that this chemotherapy regimen is highly efficient and could be used as first-line therapy in young patients with AML. 
Effect of systemic fibrinogen depletion on intraabdominal abscess formation. Deposition of fibrin within the peritoneal cavity is an integral host response to local infection. To directly assess the role of fibrin deposition in the pathogenesis of intraabdominal abscess formation, the ability to induce abscesses in fibrinogen-depleted mice was examined. We hypothesized that systemic defibrinogenation with ancrod would limit the availability of fibrinogen for deposition within the peritoneal cavity and would therefore impair intraabdominal abscess formation. A gelatin capsule containing 50% sterile feces plus Bacteroides fragilis 1 x 10(9) CFU was inserted IP into control or defibrinogenated mice. System defibrinogenation resulted in alteration of the character of abscess formation, as manifested by reduced abscess size and degree of purulence. Abscesses were significantly smaller (0.18 +/- 0.02 gm [n = 29] vs. 0.09 +/- 0.02 gm [n = 11], p less than 0.01) and less purulent (p less than 0.001) in the ancrod-treated mice than in control animals, despite equal numbers of bacteria in the abscesses recovered from both groups. The effect of ancrod was specific for defibrinogenation, because IP repletion with fibrinogen reversed the ancrod effect on abscess size. In addition to its local effects, systemic fibrinogen depletion resulted in a significant elevation in mortality following IP infection (1 of 30 control animals vs. 10 of 23 ancrod-treated animals, p less than 0.01). However, this was not due to an increase in the magnitude of the B. fragilis bacteremia. These studies demonstrate that fibrin deposition contributes to the pathogenesis of purulent abscess formation and that systemic depletion of fibrinogen may alter host susceptibility to the consequences of infection. 
Role of gastric colonization in the development of pneumonia in critically ill trauma patients: results of a prospective randomized trial. Critically ill trauma patients were entered in a prospective, randomized trial to determine the role of gastric colonization in the development of pneumonia. Trauma patients admitted to the SICU were randomized to receive antacids (n = 27), continuous IV cimetidine (n = 32), or sucralfate (n = 30). Quantitative nasogastric tube (NGT) cultures were obtained biweekly and correlated with gastric pH, the incidence of pneumonia, and the incidence of pneumonia caused by an organism previously isolated from the stomach (percentage of gastric source of pneumonia--% GSP). Patients receiving antacids had a significantly greater pH than those receiving cimetidine (5.6 +/- 1.03 vs. 4.7 +/- 1.03; p = 0.006). However, there was no significant difference between the overall incidence of pneumonia, the percentage of NGT isolates greater than 10(6)/ml, or the % GSP. The gastric bacteriology of the three subgroups was nearly identical, with Candida albicans, Enterococci, and beta-hemolytic Streptococci being the most frequently isolated organisms. Gastric growth of organisms preceding their appearance in the blood occurred in 5 of 89 (5.6%) patients. These results suggest that 1) in trauma patients, the incidence of pneumonia is not increased by the use of stress ulcer prophylactic agents that elevate gastric pH; 2) increases in gastric pH progressively increased the number of intragastric bacteria but this did not correlate with an increased incidence of % GSP; and 3) while organisms in the upper intestinal tract may be pathogens for pneumonia, they are uncommonly a source of bacteremia in seriously injured patients. 
Iliofemoral venous thrombectomy followed by percutaneous closure of the temporary arteriovenous fistula. Iliofemoral venous thrombosis treated by anticoagulants alone almost invariably results in postthrombotic sequelae with deep venous reflux alone or combined with an outflow obstruction. This study evaluates the result of iliofemoral venous thrombectomy with temporary proximal arteriovenous fistula (AVF) performed on 48 consecutive patients. In 10 patients the thrombus extended in the inferior vena cava, and the thrombectomy was combined with inferior vena cava interruption. The AVF closed spontaneously in 8 of 48 patients (patency rate, 84%). An attempt to close the AVF by placing a detachable balloon percutaneously under radiographic control was made 6 to 12 weeks later (success rate, 87%; complications, rare). A preclosure arteriovenography of the femoro-iliaco-caval segment revealed 34 of 38 segments open (patency rate, 89%). Four patients had severe stenosis of the iliac segment, and a transvenous percutaneous dilatation was successfully performed in three of the four patients, keeping the fistula. At AVF closure 4 weeks later the arteriovenography showed sustained dilatation in only two patients. Thirty-seven patients were followed for 3 to 48 months (median, 24 months) and 30 of 37 patients (81%) who had no symptoms were not using compression stockings. Doppler investigation revealed patent and competent femoral and popliteal veins and normal photoplethysmography in 56% of the patients. Four iliac veins were occluded (patency rate, 88%). No recurrence of fistula had occurred. Venous iliofemoral thrombectomy seems to better preserve valve function. The percutaneous balloon closure of the AVF has decreased the complication rate, facilitated venographic evaluation of the result, and made possible the performance of percutaneous interventions under the protection of the AVF. 
Occupational carpal tunnel syndrome in Washington State, 1984-1988. BACKGROUND: There are no published population-based studies of occupational carpal tunnel syndrome (OCTS) using a strict case definition. Most studies are either industry specific or present patient self-report of symptoms. METHODS: We conducted a population-based incidence study of OCTS using the Washington State Workers' Compensation database. Incident OCTS claims were identified with paid bills for physician reported ICD codes 354.0 and 354.1. RESULTS: There were 7,926 incident OCTS claims identified for the years 1984-1988, which yields an industry-wide incidence rate of 1.74 claims/1,000 FTEs. The mean age (37.4 years) and female/male ratio (1.2:1) in this population differ from those reported in nonoccupational carpal tunnel studies (mean age, 51 years; female/male ratio, 3:1). The female-specific OCTS incidence rate increased significantly during the study period. The highest industry specific OCTS rates were found in the food processing, carpentry, egg production, wood products, and logging industries. CONCLUSION: Demographic differences and industry-specific rates consistent with workplace exposures suggest that OCTS is distinct from CTS occurring in nonoccupational settings. Workers' compensation data proved useful in identifying high risk industries. 
Obesity and hypertension. There is a close association of obesity with hypertension through mechanisms not now understood. Hypertension occurs frequently in industrialized societies where weight gain with advancing years is a common feature and is rare in primitive societies where weight and age are negatively correlated. Hemodynamically, obesity is characterized by an expanded blood volume and increased cardiac output. Hypertension results if/when systemic vascular resistance fails to decrease as cardiac output increases. When calorie restriction leads to weight loss, both blood volume and cardiac output decrease; when the blood pressure falls, this is because peripheral resistance is unchanged. Weight-loss programs are helpful for the obese hypertensive because when hypertension is mild, blood pressure often (but not always) normalizes. Also, weight loss has been shown to decrease antihypertensive drug requirements. Interest in obesity-associated hypertension focuses on hyperinsulinemia/insulin resistance as causative factors. Although the evidence is tempting, it is far from conclusive and it seems likely that the mechanism of this type of hypertension is as multifactorial as those of other types. 
Recognizing early Parkinson's disease. Differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease should cover not only the classic disorder described by James Parkinson in 1817 (paralysis agitans) but also numerous other idiopathic and secondary disorders that have varying degrees of parkinsonian features. Because treatment options can vary greatly among mimicking disorders and differ from those effective for Parkinson's disease, a prompt, accurate diagnosis is essential. Physicians can distinguish between these often-overlapping disorders by differentiating primary from secondary parkinsonism and by classifying primary syndromes into disorders with prominent tremor and those without. 
Maternal plasma level of endothelin is increased in preeclampsia. Endothelin is a potent vasoconstrictor that is reportedly increased in conditions characterized by endothelial damage. Maternal plasma endothelin levels were compared between 27 women with preeclampsia (23 without and 4 with the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome) and 14 women with normotensive pregnancies. The mean +/- SEM plasma endothelin values were significantly higher in patients with preeclampsia uncomplicated by the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome (5.48 +/- 0.30 fmol/ml vs 3.86 +/- 0.28, p less than 0.001). In addition, the preeclamptic group with the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome had significantly higher endothelin levels than those without the syndrome (8.30 +/- 1.62 fmol/ml vs 5.48 +/- 0.30, p less than 0.05). There was no correlation between plasma endothelin values and either systolic or diastolic blood pressure. We conclude that plasma endothelin levels are significantly increased in women with preeclampsia and particularly in those with the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome, suggesting an association with widespread endothelial damage. 
Prostaglandin F2 alpha and indomethacin in hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia. Effects on pulmonary hemodynamics and gas exchange. We treated a 68-year-old man with cirrhosis of the liver associated with moderate hypoxemia. Contrast-enhanced echocardiography revealed late opacification of the left ventricle, and pulmonary perfusion imaging with 99mTc macroaggregated albumin showed evidence of a significant uptake in both lungs and in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Right cardiac catheterization revealed pulmonary hypotension, low pulmonary vascular resistance, and high cardiac output. We administered prostaglandin F2 alpha intravenously (0.2 microgram/kg/min for 30 minutes) and indomethacin orally (75 mg/day for three days). There was some degree of resolution of the hypoxemia and increases in both pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance. These findings suggest that the pathophysiology of hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia is a reversible intrapulmonary vascular dilatation. These conditions can to some extent be modulated by vasoactive substances such as prostaglandins or other eicosanoids. 
Aneurysm or occlusive disease--factors determining the clinical course of atherosclerosis of the infrarenal aorta. Atherosclerosis of the infrarenal aorta results in distinct clinical entities--aortoiliac occlusive disease (AOD) and abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Although loss of collagen has been implicated in AAA, collagen accumulation plays a role in AOD. In vivo collagen-gene expression can be assessed using complementary DNA for collagen types I and III alpha-chains. The purpose of this study is to compare total collagen (type I + III) and collagen types I and III messenger RNA in AAA, AOD and normal aorta. Specimens were collected from the infrarenal aorta during operation for AOD (n = 7), AAA (n = 7), autopsy, or organ procurement (normal; n = 7). Northern transfer analysis of total RNA was used to compare mRNA levels for type I and III collagen. After preliminary extraction, specimens were hydrolyzed for hydroxyproline analysis used to calculate total collagen (type I + III). Relative levels of type I (pro-a1[1]) mRNA were greater in both AOD (0.77 +/- 0.35) and AAA tissue (0.94 +/- 0.24; p = 0.6) than in normal aorta (0.02 +/- 0.03). Type III (pro-a1[III]) mRNA levels were also greater in AOD (2.52 +/- 0.19; p = 0.09) and AAA tissue (3.15 +/- 1.3) than in normals (0.97 +/- 0.47). Total collagen concentration was increased in AOD (45.6% +/- 3.1% dry weight; p less than 0.05) but not AAA tissue (27.8% +/- 4%) when compared to normal aorta (34.7% +/- 2.3%). Collagen type I and III gene expression is greater in older, diseased aorta, yet collagen accumulated only in AOD. This implies a similar synthetic response in both AOD and AAA. Thus, proteolytic degradation in AAA appears to determine collagen content and possibly the clinical course of the atherosclerotic process. 
Vascular trauma as a result of therapeutic procedures for the treatment of malignancy. Twenty-two iatrogenic vascular injuries caused by resection of tumors with local recurrences or adjuvant chemotherapy were treated over a 42-month period in 11 female and 8 male patients with cancer (58% had documented metastases). Sixteen of 22 vascular injuries were caused by intraarterial administration of chemotherapy (8 emboli; 8 direct catheter trauma), and six were caused by resection of tumors with local invasion. The injuries were extremity ischemia (15 extremities in 13 patients), pseudoaneurysm (4), expanding hematoma (3 injuries in 2 patients). Twenty-two surgical repairs included bypass of severely damaged arteries in five, embolectomy in five, interposition grafts in three, pseudoaneurysm resection and primary repair in three, primary repair of three vascular injuries, and one patch angioplasty. Leg amputation was required in two patients. Seventeen of 19 patients had successful vascular repairs with resolution of preoperative indications for vascular repair without intraoperative or postoperative deaths. Long term follow-up (mean, 17 months) showed no recurrence of vascular problems; however, two patients died of metastatic cancer at 6 and 24 weeks after vascular repair. This study supports an aggressive approach to the management of vascular injuries caused by therapeutic interventions for malignancy despite the presence of metastatic disease. 
Noninvasive detection of functionally significant coronary artery stenoses with exercise and positron emission tomography. Positron emission tomography has been employed in vivo to assess flow using N-13 (nitrogen-13) ammonia and glucose metabolism, with the glucose analog F-18 (fluorine-18) fluorodeoxyglucose. Flow metabolism mismatches in which glucose metabolism is increased with respect to flow have been used to define ischemic, but viable myocardium. The feasibility of detecting exercise-induced ischemia using this technique was explored. Eleven normal volunteers and 16 patients who had undergone coronary arteriography were studied with N-13 ammonia at rest and with bicycle exercise, and with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose in the postexercise period. Each image was divided into 16 sectors. Comparison of absolute net extractions of N-13 ammonia at rest and with exercise was not sensitive in detecting functionally significant coronary artery lesions. Myocardial uptakes of F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose and exercise N-13 ammonia were normalized to the sector with the highest N-13 ammonia uptake (corresponding to the highest flow rate). The differences and ratios of these normalized uptakes were successfully used to objectively define flow metabolism mismatches and to identify functionally significant coronary artery disease. Our data suggest that exercise flow and metabolic imaging are superior to rest and exercise flow imaging, particularly in patients with prior myocardial infarctions. 
Primary resection and anastomosis in obstructed descending colon due to cancer. Intraoperative colonic irrigation followed by one-stage resection is gaining popularity as the optimal surgical treatment for left-sided colonic obstruction. However, its efficacy and potential hazards have not been adequately tested in obstruction due to colonic cancer. We analyzed the early results of 23 consecutive patients with obstructive left-sided colonic carcinoma treated by primary resection and anastomosis following intraoperative antegrade colonic lavage. Two patients (8.6%) died, one from complication of anastomotic leakage. The significant postoperative complications were chest infection in three (13%) and wound infection in seven (30.4%). The average hospital stay was 16.5 days. The results of this study suggest that intraoperative bowel irrigation permits one-stage resection and anastomosis to be conducted with reasonable safety provided care is taken in operative techniques. 
Tobacco smoking as a risk factor for colon polyps. BACKGROUND: Data from a cancer screening project among pattern makers were used to evaluate the association between tobacco smoking and prevalence of colon polyps. METHODS: From 1981-1983, 549 White men were examined by flexible sigmoidoscopy and completed self-administered questionnaires including smoking histories. RESULTS: One or more colon polyps were detected in 76 men. Standardized prevalence rates (SPR) for polyps increased by smoking category (never smoked = 0.094; ex-smokers = 0.118, current smokers = 0.214) and by cigarettes per day, years of smoking, and pack-years among both current and ex-smokers. Both adenomatous and hyperplastic polyps showed an association with smoking while other types of polyps and polyps with unspecified histology did not. The risk associated with smoking was greater for polyps greater than one centimeter in diameter. An interaction with occupational exposures was suggested by a greater increase in the SPR for polyps among current smokers employed as pattern makers for more than 10 years than among current smokers similarly employed for 10 years or less. CONCLUSIONS: Since at least some colon polyps are considered precursor lesions to colon cancer, one of the most common cancers in the United States, this report suggests that the possible link between colon polyps and smoking deserves further evaluation. 
Risk stratification after myocardial infarction. Clinical overview. Many patients with an acute myocardial infarction can be stratified into subgroups that are at high risk for morbidity and mortality on the basis of clinical characteristics that indicate recurrent myocardial ischemia, persistent left ventricular dysfunction, and/or recurrent cardiac arrhythmias. In patients with uncomplicated myocardial infarction the assessment of symptoms, physical findings, and ECG changes during predischarge exercise testing often identifies patients at increased risk for further cardiac events. Because of the suboptimum sensitivity and specificity of the exercise ECG for detecting myocardial ischemia, myocardial perfusion imaging with 201Tl and/or assessment of global and segmental ventricular function by two-dimensional echocardiography or radionuclide cineangiography during or immediately after exercise are often added to the predischarge risk stratification. 
A new approach to the management of acute epistaxis. A new approach to the management of acute epistaxis is described using suction with the operating microscope to define the bleeding point prior to the application of hot wire cautery. This technique was shown to be completely successful in stopping haemorrhage in 82% of acute referrals in a prospective series of 33 patients. It resulted in a significant reduction both in the use of nasal packing and in the length of hospital stay compared with a group of controls treated by traditional means. It is proposed that in most cases of acute epistaxis the bleeding point is accessible to cautery and nasal packing should be reserved for a minority of refractory cases. This avoids unnecessary patient discomfort and the complications of prolonged nasal packing and hospitalization. 
Ber-ACT8: new monoclonal antibody to the mucosa lymphocyte antigen. Using a newly established HTLV-1 positive T cell line as an immunogen, a new monoclonal antibody, Ber-ACT8, was produced. It reacts with in vitro activated T cells and a small subset of normal resting T cells, but not with resting B cells or any of the 29 established human permanent cell lines tested. Immunohistological analysis of a wide spectrum of human tissues showed that Ber-ACT8 reactivity is restricted to a few T cells in the peripheral blood, the extrafollicular areas of lymph nodes and tonsils, and splenic red pulp. In the gut Ber-ACT8 labelled most intraepithelial T cells and up to 50% of lamina propria T cells. The antibody also immunostained T cells present in the oral and bronchial mucosa. Double labelling on splenic cells, fresh blood lymphocytes, and in vitro activated T cells showed that most Ber-ACT8 positive cells coexpressed CD8. Ber-ACT8 did not react with any of the 14 Hodgkin's lymphomas nor any of the 172 non-Hodgkin's lymphomas tested, with the exception of 10 cases of T cell lymphomas, five of which were located in the jejunum and associated with coeliac disease, and one B cell lymphoma, and most cases of hairy cell leukaemia tested. Parallel immunostainings with Ber-ACT8, anti-TCR-beta (beta F1), and anti-TCR-delta showed that most Ber-ACT8 positive T cells carry the TCR of alpha beta type. Comparison of Ber-ACT8 with HML-1, B-ly7, and LF61 showed essentially the same reactivity and an identical molecular target. The molecular structure recognised seems to be a trimeric molecule with components of 150, 125 and 105 kilodaltons, with the Ber-ACT8 epitope localised on the 150 kilodalton chain. The 150 kilodalton molecule contains an 0-linked carbohydrate moiety of about 10 kilodaltons. Because of its very selective distribution, the trimeric antigen is a powerful reagent for the diagnosis of gut T cell-derived T cell lymphomas and other extranodal T cell lymphomas, as well as hairy cell leukaemia. 
In vitro response of a human colon tumor xenograft and a lung adenocarcinoma cell line to alpha-difluoromethylornithine alone and in combination with 5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin. We have investigated effects of alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), both as a single agent and in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) against a human colon tumor xenograft (T6) grown as primary tissue culture in serum-free medium and in combination with doxorubicin (DX) against a human lung adenocarcinoma cell line (A549). DFMO showed a dose-dependent growth-inhibitory effect against human colon tumor xenograft and lung adenocarcinoma cells. Growth-inhibitory activity of DFMO against T6 cells was reversed completely when the cells were treated simultaneously with putrescine (PU) (10(-6) M) and DFMO (10(-3) M). When 5-FU and DFMO were used in combination against T6 cells, no antagonism or synergism between the two drugs was seen. However, in the case of A549 cells, when DFMO was used in combination with DX, there was a consistent increase in growth inhibition that surpassed the inhibition of either agent given alone. 
Rhinocerebral mucormycosis: use of liposomal amphotericin B. Rhinocerebral mucormycosis is a rare but often fatal condition characterized by an aggressive necrotizing infection spreading from the nose to the paranasal sinuses, orbit and hence to the central nervous system. A case is reported in which a diabetic male with advanced mucormycosis was successfully treated by a combination of surgery, supportive therapy and liposomal amphotericin B. Liposomal delivery allows the drug to be both less toxic and more effective, and this is the first reported case of its use in rhinocerebral mucormycosis. 
Successful treatment of a pineal endodermal sinus tumor. Case report. A patient with a pineal endodermal sinus tumor is presented who was successfully treated by a combination of surgery, adjuvant chemotherapy, and craniospinal irradiation. Two years after diagnosis, he is free of any disease. A review of the literature shows that such an outcome is very unusual. A multidisciplinary treatment is recommended for this rare tumor, using chemotherapy as adjuvant treatment. 
MR imaging of CSF-like choroidal fissure and parenchymal cysts of the brain. The purposes of this study were to delineate the MR characteristics of CSF-like parenchymal or fissural cysts of the brain and to correlate them with the clinical findings. Clinical data and MR images of 34 patients with these abnormalities were reviewed. Pathologic correlation was not available. Two types of cystic lesions were identified and separated by location: medial temporal lobe cysts arising in or near the choroidal fissure (26 patients) and parenchymal or pseudoparenchymal cysts not related to the choroidal fissure (eight patients). The choroidal fissure cysts simulated intraparenchymal cysts on axial images but their extraaxial location was well portrayed on the coronal images. Choroidal fissure cysts had a characteristic spindle shape on sagittal images. The other cysts were found in the temporal lobe (seven patients) or thalamus (one patient) and appeared parenchymal but situated close to the subarachnoid space. These lesions were round or ovoid. There was no abnormal enhancement in 10 patients studied with gadopentetate dimeglumine. Coronal images were most useful, revealing the cysts as focal CSF-intensity lesions expanding the choroidal fissure of the temporal lobe. All the cysts appeared to represent incidental findings that did not correlate with the clinical signs and/or symptoms that prompted the imaging evaluations. The MR characteristics of CSF-like cysts are important to recognize so that they are not confused with other, more serious entities, such as intraaxial cystic tumors, infarctions, or parasitic lesions. 
Results of surgery for duodenal ulcer: assessment by patients. A questionnaire was administered to 224 patients who had undergone 246 operations for duodenal ulcer to see how well this correlated with Visick grading and to provide insight into the patients' feelings about the results of their surgery. The patients were divided into three groups by Visick grade: good (grade I, n = 70), satisfactory (grades II and IIIs, n = 104) and poor (grades IIIu and IV, n = 72). The distribution of questionnaire responses in each group was statistically different (P less than 0.01). Dividing the questionnaire responses into three corresponding groups, 72 per cent of patients assigned themselves to the same group as their Visick grade. Three observations were made regarding the Visick system: recurrent ulceration is over-scored and should be included only if symptomatic; grading should acknowledge a wider range of symptoms related to ulcer disease and its treatment; only three grades are necessary. 
Goniotomy technique for removal of anterior chamber intraocular lenses. Removal of an anterior chamber intraocular lens is often impeded by formation of peripheral anterior synechiae around one or more of the lens haptics. We describe a method of lysing adhesions under direct visualization through a contact gonioprism lens. This method is relatively atraumatic to vital anterior-chamber-angle structures. 
Effect of cyclo(Leu-Gly) on cyclic GMP-phosphodiesterase activity changes associated with development of tolerance to morphine-induced antinociception, catalepsy, respiratory depression and mydriasis. A biochemical basis for the development of tolerance to morphine has yet to be defined. Although a number of models have been proposed, none can account for complete tolerance to this drug. Previous studies in our laboratory indicated that the development of complete tolerance to certain morphine-induced behaviors (antinociception, catalepsy and respiratory depression) is associated with changes in the activity of some form(s) of phosphodiesterase with cyclic GMP as substrate (cGMP-PDE) activity in the brain areas that mediate these behaviors (periaqueductal gray, striatum and medulla). In the present study, experiments were performed in which Cyclo(Leu-Gly), a dipeptide that inhibits the development of tolerance to morphine, was administered daily (2 mg/kg) to morphine-naive rats, coadministered with morphine or coadministered with morphine to morphine-tolerant rats and the cGMP-PDE activity was measured. The development of tolerance to the effects was inhibited or reversed by administration of cyclo(Leu-Gly) and there were corresponding changes in cGMP-PDE activity in various brain regions. Differences in cGMP hydrolysis between brain regions from morphine-tolerant animals, tolerance-inhibited animals and tolerance-reversed animals strengthens the evidence for direct involvement of cGMP-PDE(s) in tolerance phenomena. 
Limited sampling models for doxorubicin pharmacokinetics. Although doxorubicin is one of the most commonly used antineoplastics, no studies to date have clearly related the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) to toxicity or response. The limited sampling model has recently been shown to be a feasible method for estimating the AUC to facilitate pharmacodynamic studies. Data from two previous studies of doxorubicin pharmacokinetics were used, including 26 patients with sarcoma and five patients with breast cancer or unknown primary. The former were divided into a training data set of 15 patients and a test datum set of 11 patients, and the latter patients formed a second test data set. The model was developed by stepwise multiple regression on the training data set: AUC (nanogram hour per milliliter) = 17.39 C2 + 163 C48-111.0 [dose/(50 mg/m2)], where C2 and C48 are the concentrations at 2 and 48 hours after bolus dose. The model was subsequently validated on both test data sets: first test data set--mean predictive error (MPE), 4.7%; root mean square error (RMSE), 12.4%; second test data set--MPE, 4.5%, RMSE, 9.2%. An additional model was also generated using a simulated time point to estimate the total AUC for a daily x 3-day schedule: AUC (nanogram hour per milliliter) = 44.79 C2 + 175.65 C48 + 47.25 [dose/(25 mg/m2/d)], where the C48 is obtained just prior to the third dose. We conclude that the AUC of doxorubicin after bolus administration can be adequately estimated from two timed plasma concentrations. 
Acral pseudolymphomatous angiokeratoma of children (APACHE): a case report and immunohistological study. Acral pseudolymphomatous angiokeratoma of children (APACHE) is a new clinical entity that is characterized by angiomatous papules on the extremities. We report a case APACHE in a 14-year-old Japanese girl with asymptomatic red and violaceous papules and nodules on the ring finger of the left hand. Histological and immunohistochemical studies of our patient indicated that APACHE is a pseudolymphoma rather than an angiokeratoma. 
Dopamine agonists prevent duodenal ulcer relapse. A comparative study with famotidine and cimetidine. The present study investigated both the healing rate (after four weeks) and the relapse rate (during six months) following treatment with the dopamine-like drugs bromocriptine (2.5 mg twice daily), amantadine (100 mg nocte), or with the H2 blockers cimetidine (800 mg nocte), and famotidine (40 mg nocte) in 124 patients with endoscopically proven duodenal ulcer (DU). The ulcer was completely healed in 27 (amantadine), 26 (bromocriptine), 23 (cimetidine), and in 24 (famotidine) patients. Relapse was noted in 34.7% (cimetidine) and 25% (famotidine) versus 11.7% (amantadine) and 7.7% (bromocriptine) DU patients. No significant difference was found in initial healing rates. However, the relapse rate in the cimetidine-treated group was significantly higher than in all the other test groups. Additional comparisons between all the treatment categories showed a significantly lower relapse rate with the dopamine-like agents. These important new results indicate that dopamine-like compounds are equally effective as H2 blockers in inducing DU healing and may offer a promising advantage over H2 blockers concerning their efficacy in preventing ulcer relapse in DU patients. 
Lysis of plasminogen activator-resistant platelet-rich coronary artery thrombus with combined bolus injection of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator and antiplatelet GPIIb/IIIa antibody. Resistance of coronary occlusive thrombus to thrombolytic therapy, found in some patients with acute myocardial infarction, may be due to the presence of platelet-rich coronary clot. Reperfusion therapy in such patients may require the development and evaluation of alternative strategies in animal models. Therefore, platelet-rich coronary artery thrombus was developed by excision, eversion (inside out) and reanastomosis of a 1 cm segment of the left circumflex coronary artery in anesthetized dogs maintained on heparin antiocoagulation. Blood flow was restored in 25 of 27 dogs. Thrombotic occlusion of the everted segment graft with primarily platelet-rich thrombus or thrombus containing platelet-rich and erythrocyte-rich zones, persisting for at least 30 min, occurred within 4.5 +/- 3.5 min (mean +/- SD) in 20 of these 25 dogs. In 5 of these 20 dogs (group I, control), stable occlusion, as monitored with an ultrasound flow probe and coronary angiography, was maintained during a 2 h observation period. In group II (n = 5), intravenous bolus injections of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) at a dose of 0.45 mg/kg body weight at four 15 min intervals did not cause reperfusion in four dogs and produced cyclic reperfusion and reocclusion in one dog. In group III (n = 5), a single intravenous bolus injection of 0.8 mg/kg of the F(ab')2 fragment of a murine monoclonal antibody (7E3) against the human platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor [7E3-F(ab')2] produced stable reperfusion in two of the five dogs, whereas occlusion persisted in the other three. In group IV (n = 5), injection of 7E3-F(ab')2 (0.8 mg/kg) followed by rt-PA (0.45 mg/kg) caused stable reperfusion without reocclusion in all dogs (p less than 0.05 versus rt-PA alone and p less than 0.01 versus control). This study confirms that platelet-rich occlusive coronary thrombus is very resistant to lysis with intravenous rt-PA. However, this resistance may be overcome by the combined use of a reduced dose of rt-PA and the antiplatelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antibody 7E3. The results indicate that platelet-rich thrombus resistant to thrombolytic agents may be dispersed pharmacologically without resort to mechanical recanalization. The present dog model may be useful in investigating specific strategies for the dispersion of resistant platelet-rich coronary thrombus. 
Effects of calcium chloride administration on the postischemic isolated rat heart. Hypercalcemic reperfusion of the postischemic heart has been associated with ventricular dysfunction and with ultrastructural changes in the mitochondria. The isolated working rat heart model was used to correlate ventricular function, mitochondrial damage, and high-energy phosphate content with degree and timing of hypercalcemia during reperfusion. When administered early during reperfusion, calcium chloride caused a dose-dependent deterioration in ventricular function, whereas calcium augmented function when it was administered after a 15-minute period of normocalcemic reperfusion. Hearts treated with calcium early during reperfusion demonstrated more mitochondrial damage and decreased stores of adenosine triphosphate than those in which calcium administration was delayed. The data indicate that a period of normocalcemic reperfusion should precede calcium administration in the postischemic heart. Mitochondrial damage resulting in decreased synthesis of adenosine triphosphate is likely the cause of ventricular dysfunction associated with calcium administration in the postischemic heart. 
Pelvic denervation for chronic pain associated with endometriosis: fact or fancy? The efficacy of presacral neurectomy and amputation of the uterosacral ligaments in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain has been debated for decades. These procedures used to be done mainly in women with normal pelves, but more recently they have been performed during conservative surgery for treatment of endometriosis. In the 1980s the rapid spread of laparoscopic surgery has led to an increasing number of endoscopic denervations in patients with chronic pelvic pain associated with endometriosis. However, an analysis of literature data has failed to prove that presacral neurectomy and amputation of the uterosacral ligaments are effective and did not demonstrate better results with the use of lasers rather than electrocoagulation. Moreover, no valid comparison has yet been made between laparotomy and laparoscopic methods. 
Effect of prior anesthetic solution on epidural morphine analgesia. The quality and duration of analgesia and incidence of side effects following epidurally administered morphine after cesarean section are highly variable. Two suggested sources of this variability are prior use of epinephrine-containing solutions, which may enhance both analgesia and side effects of morphine, and prior use of 2-chloroprocaine, which may inhibit epidural morphine analgesia. To examine these proposed sources of this variability we performed two studies. In the first, designed to test epinephrine's effect, 30 women underwent testing for epidural catheter tip location with injection of 2-chloroprocaine, followed by either 0.5% bupivacaine alone or 0.5% bupivacaine with 5 micrograms/mL epinephrine for epidural anesthesia. Inclusion of epinephrine with bupivacaine decreased the bupivacaine dose needed to achieve a T-4 sensory block by 24% (P less than 0.05), but did not alter analgesic duration or the incidence of side effects of epidural morphine (5 mg). In the second study, designed to test the effect of 2-chloroprocaine, 30 women received 7 mL of either 2% 2-chloroprocaine or lidocaine for epidural catheter testing, followed by 0.5% bupivacaine for epidural anesthesia. Compared to lidocaine testing, 2-chloroprocaine decreased the duration of epidural morphine analgesia (median 16 h with 2-chloroprocaine vs 24 h with lidocaine; P less than 0.05) without altering the incidence of side effects. The authors conclude that addition of epinephrine to local anesthetic does not increase the incidence of side effects or the analgesic effect from epidurally administered morphine. 2-Chloroprocaine, even when administered in small doses remote to the time of morphine injection, interferes with the duration of epidural morphine analgesia. 
Preclinical detection of motor and nonmotor manifestations. The advent of possible protective therapies for Parkinson's disease has created a need for methods of diagnosing the disease before the clinical features become fully evident. As a number of motor and nonmotor manifestations of the disease emerge months to years before a diagnosis can be made, a battery of clinical tests might be sufficient to identify individuals at an earlier stage than is currently possible using the standard history and physical examination. A list of questions regarding possible risk factors, specific symptoms, and observations of family members could be combined in a self-administered questionnaire that might identify individuals with a high probability of early, but otherwise undiagnosable, Parkinson's disease. Identification of subtle motor features is another possible screening method. For example, handwriting and speech are commonly affected prior to diagnosis; thus, automated analysis of these motor actions might also provide detection of incipient disease. 
Dose response of fish oil versus safflower oil on graft arteriosclerosis in rabbit heterotopic cardiac allografts. With the advent of cyclosporin A, accelerated coronary arteriosclerosis has become the major impediment to the long-term survival of heart transplant recipients. Due to epidemiologic reports suggesting a salutary effect of fish oil, the dose response of fish oil on graft coronary arteriosclerosis in a rabbit heterotopic cardiac allograft model was assessed using safflower oil as a caloric control. Seven groups of New Zealand White rabbits (n = 10/group) received heterotropic heart transplants from Dutch-Belted donors and were immunosuppressed with low-dose cyclosporin A (7.5 mg/kg/day). Group 1 animals were fed a normal diet and served as control. Group 2, 3, and 4 animals received a daily supplement of low- (0.25 mL/kg/day), medium- (0.75 mL/kg/day), and high- (1.5 mL/kg/day) dose fish oil (116 mg n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid/mL), respectively. Group 5, 6, and 7 animals were supplemented with equivalent dose of safflower oil (i.e., 0.25, 0.75, and 1.5 mL/kg/day). Oil-supplemented rabbits were pretreated for 3 weeks before transplantation and maintained on the same diet for 6 weeks after operation. The extent of graft coronary arteriosclerosis was quantified using computer-assisted, morphometric planimetry. When the animals were killed, cyclosporin A was associated with elevated plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the control group. While safflower oil prevented the increase in plasma lipids at all dosages, fish oil ameliorated the cyclosporin-induced increase in total cholesterol only with high doses. Compared to control animals, there was a trend for more graft vessel disease with increasing fish oil dose, as assessed by mean luminal occlusion and intimal thickness. A steeper trend was observed for increasing doses of safflower oil; compared to the high-dose safflower oil group, animals supplemented with low-dose safflower oil had less mean luminal occlusion (16.3% +/- 5.9% versus 41.4% +/- 7.6%, p less than 0.017) and intimal thickness (7.9 +/- 1.9 microns versus 34.0 +/- 13.0 microns, analysis of variance: p = 0.054). Low-dose safflower oil also had a slight, but nonsignificant, beneficial effect on graft vessel disease when compared to control rabbits. The same trends were observed in the degree of histologic rejection (0 = none to 3 = severe) in fish oil- and safflower oil-treated animals. Rejection score correlated weakly but significantly (p = 0.0001) with mean luminal occlusion (r = 0.52) and intimal thickness (r = 0.46). Therefore allograft coronary disease in this model appeared to exhibit an unfavorable, direct-dose response to fish oil and safflower oil, independent of effects on plasma lipids.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Bacteriology of the anal wound after open hemorrhoidectomy. Qualitative and quantitative analysis. The purpose of this study is to analyze the size of the bacterial colonies in anal wounds after open hemorrhoidectomy. Twenty patients were studied during predetermined postoperative time periods. Material was collected from the surface and from within the tissue of each patient's three open wounds, intraoperatively, on the 6th, 13th and 20th postoperative days for bacteriologic examination in aerobic, microaerophilic, and anaerobic media. The bacterium most commonly identified was Escherichia coli, followed by Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterococcus faecalis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus vulgaris, and Proteus mirabilis were also identified. Critical indexes of colonization were present since the intraoperative stage (greater than 10(5) bacteria/g of tissue and greater than 10(6) bacteria/ml); obligate anaerobic bacteria were not identified; neither the species nor the number of bacteria, even when critical indexes were present, prevented proper healing. The same bacteria were not necessarily present on the surface and in the tissue; the bacterial load observed among the three wounds (left lateral, right posterior, and right anterior), was the same. 
Elevated plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) with adrenal hyperplasia: a new factor in ACTH regulation? We report a patient with Cushing's syndrome in whom the etiology of the hypercortisolemia could not be definitely established despite extensive biochemical investigations. Results included raised basal serum cortisol, plasma ACTH, and urinary free cortisol; failure to suppress even a paradoxical rise in serum cortisol after dexamethasone (1 mg overnight, 2, 8, and 16 mg/day); and a definite but not exaggerated rise in 11-deoxycortisol after metyrapone. After iv CRF, plasma ACTH rose from 22 to 30 pmol/L. Abdominal computed tomographic scanning showed adrenal hyperplasia; the presence of an adrenal adenoma, although suspected, was not established. An unusual finding was the presence in the urine of large amounts of 21-deoxycortisol metabolites, including 3 alpha,11 beta,17 alpha-trihydroxy-5 beta-pregnan-20-one and 5 beta-pregnane 3 alpha,11 beta,17 alpha,20 alpha-tetrol. On the basis of preoperative biochemical/radiological findings, a provisional diagnosis of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome associated with autonomous bilateral adrenal hyperplasia was made. Incomplete bilateral adrenalectomy was performed; adrenal hyperplasia was histologically confirmed, but no tumor was found. However, ACTH was measured 1) just before operation when the patient was receiving treatment with metyrapone, and 2) postoperatively when the patient was receiving steroid replacement only, and on these occasions ACTH levels were lower than during the initial investigations. Pituitary scans before and after adrenalectomy were similar, offering no evidence of pituitary infarction. We propose that abnormal production of 21-deoxycortisol contributed to the aberrant regulation of ACTH and cortisol in this case, providing an example of a previously unreported cause of hypercortisolemia. 
Microangiopathy of the brain, retina, and ear: improvement without immunosuppressive therapy. We describe a pregnant young woman with branch retinal arteriolar occlusions, encephalopathy, and hearing loss in whom we demonstrated a patent foramen ovale. She improved while receiving anticoagulants and no immunosuppressive therapy. The microangiopathic syndrome of retinopathy, encephalopathy, and deafness may be due to a disturbance of coagulation and/or microembolism. 
The spectrum of eosinophilic gastroenteritis. Report of six pediatric cases and review of the literature. Eosinophilic gastroenteritis is an inflammatory disease of unknown etiology characterized by infiltration of the gastrointestinal tract with eosinophilic leukocytes, accompanied by varying abdominal symptoms and usually by peripheral blood eosinophilia. We report our experience with six pediatric cases presenting to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation over the past eight years. Unusual findings in our patients included ascitic fluid without eosinophilia and eosinophilic pericarditis (one patient), and eosinophilic cholecystitis (one patient). Endoscopic examination and biopsy helped to establish the diagnosis in all patients. Bone marrow aspiration supported the diagnosis by demonstrating eosinophilia and identifying reactivation of the disease, even in cases without peripheral eosinophilia. All six patients responded promptly to prednisone. Diagnosis is challenging and eosinophilic gastroenteritis may be more common than is recognized. This series of cases significantly expands the spectrum of the disease in children, and documents the usefulness of diagnostic endoscopy in this condition. 
Electroencephalogram patterns during sleep reflux in infants. Twenty-four infants, 3-35 months of age, with histories of apnea or chronic lung disease underwent nighttime polysomnography and esophageal pH monitoring. Fifteen infants had pathological levels of gastroesophageal reflux on esophageal pH monitoring, and 9 had normal study results (symptomatic controls). Partition of sleep stages, sleep efficiency, and frequency of arousals to electroencephalographic stage 0 were the same in both groups. During sleeping reflux episodes, defined as reflux starting during sleep stages 1-5 or reflux episodes consisting of greater than 50% of sleep stages 1-5, there was a 50% decrease in the amount of stage 0 electroencephalogram pattern compared with nonreflux sleep, and a compensatory increase in the non-rapid eye movement sleep stages. Reflux onsets in patients with pathological reflux were evenly divided between stages 0, 1/2, and 5. Onset of reflux occurred rarely during sleep stages 3 and 4. Slight body movement accompanied the onset of 62.5% of sleep reflux episodes in symptomatic controls and 64.7% in patients with pathological gastroesophageal reflux. Arousals to stage 0 electroencephalogram occurred with equal frequency in sleep reflux episodes of symptomatic controls and patients, and frequency did not increase over the observed value for nonreflux time. There were no differences between the sleep patterns of infants with and without pathological gastroesophageal reflux; nor were there decreases in arousals from sleep in infants with pathological reflux. However, reflux occurring during sleep in all infants studied was characterized by a significant decrease in stage 0 (waking) electroencephalogram. 
Successful angioplasty of a chronically occluded saphenous vein graft using a prolonged urokinase infusion from the brachial route. A 68-year-old man who presented with unstable angina had had cardiac bypass surgery 12 years earlier and successful angioplasty of a native circumflex lesion 18 months previously. Repeat catheterization showed a widely patent angioplasty site but interval closure of a saphenous vein graft to a large marginal branch that was totally occluded proximally. A stress test revealed significant myocardial ischemia. Severe peripheral peripheral vascular disease with known bilateral iliac artery occlusions mandated a brachial approach. Because of his high risk for repeat cardiac surgery, it was elected to attempt saphenous graft angioplasty following a prolonged urokinase infusion. After an infusion of urokinase for 36 hr, antegrade flow was restored and angioplasty was carried out successfully on a discrete mid-graft legion. Subsequent stress testing showed resolution of the ischemia. There were no vascular complications. 
Dipyridamole-induced decrement of functional recovery of postischemic reperfused myocardium in conscious dogs with well-developed coronary collateral circulation. The effects of dipyridamole (20 and 40 micrograms/kg/min intravenously) on the time course of functional recovery of myocardium after five 5-minute coronary artery occlusions and four 5-minute reperfusions and a subsequent 5-hour reperfusion period were studied in chronically instrumented, conscious dogs with well-developed coronary collateral circulation. In comparison with vehicle-treated control dogs, those given dipyridamole (20 and 40 micrograms/kg/min, respectively) 15 minutes before and during coronary occlusion had a greater depression of regional segment shortening (38 +/- 7% and 19 +/- 4%, respectively, vs control levels of 69 +/- 10% of preocclusion values) during acute coronary artery occlusion. After a 5-hour reperfusion period, segment shortening returned to preocclusion values in the control group but remained decreased in the dipyridamole groups (87 +/- 4% and 75%, respectively). These results suggest that dipyridamole in a dose-dependent manner exacerbates recovery of contractility of postischemic reperfused myocardium in dogs with well-developed coronary collateral circulation. 
Dexmedetomidine prevents epinephrine-induced arrhythmias through stimulation of central alpha 2 adrenoceptors in halothane-anesthetized dogs. Since alpha 2-adrenergic agonists have important effects on the adrenergic system that have recently been applied to the anesthetic setting, we investigated the effect of stimulation of alpha 2 adrenoceptors on epinephrine-induced arrhythmias in halothane-anesthetized dogs. The arrhythmogenic threshold for epinephrine was determined during halothane anesthesia in the presence of dexmedetomidine, a selective alpha 2 agonist, and L-medetomidine, a stereoisomer of medetomidine that lacks alpha 2-agonist activity. Dexmedetomidine increased the arrhythmogenic threshold for epinephrine in a dose-dependent manner during halothane anesthesia. At the highest dose of dexmedetomidine, 0.5 microgram.kg-1.min-1, there was a three-fold increase in both the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine and the plasma epinephrine concentration that was reached at this dose. On the other hand, L-medetomidine over the same dose range did not effect the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine. Atipamezole, a central alpha 2 antagonist that crossed the blood-brain barrier, blocked the antiarrhythmic action of dexmedetomidine. L-659,066 a peripheral alpha 2 antagonist that does not penetrate the blood-brain barrier, did not affect the antiarrhythmic action of dexmedetomidine. Thus, dexmedetomidine's antiarrhythmic effect on epinephrine-induced arrhythmias during halothane anesthesia appears to be mediated at least in part by stimulation of central alpha 2 adrenoceptors. 
Status of the valves in the superficial and deep venous system in chronic venous disease. The relationship between the functional status of the venous valves in the superficial and deep veins and ulceration was evaluated in 42 patients. Twenty-five patients had ulcers, 12 of these patients had a history of previous deep venous thrombosis and 13 of these patients denied such an event. Seventeen patients had normal ankle skin, 10 of these patients had a documented history of deep vein thrombosis and seven of these patients had varicose veins only. An ultrasonic duplex scanner was used to document the presence of reflux in all segments of the superficial and deep system. In the entire group of 25 limbs with ulceration, valvular incompetence was noted in 22 limbs at levels involving segments that communicated with the ulcer-bearing area. Of the 17 limbs with normal ankle skin, in only two instances was a single segment of posterior tibial vein in midcalf found to be incompetent. For those patients with normal ankle skin and a history of varicose veins, the deep veins below the common femoral vein level were always competent. 
CHLVPP chemotherapy with involved-field irradiation for Hodgkin's disease: favorable results with acceptable toxicity. Patients with Hodgkin's disease who were previously untreated with chemotherapy received the chlorambucil, vinblastine, procarbazine, and prednisone (CHLVPP) regimen plus limited involved-field radiation therapy for treatment of Hodgkin's disease through the Nebraska Lymphoma Study Group. One hundred patients, 87 with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease and 13 who relapsed after receiving previous radiation therapy, were treated with this regimen between 1982 and 1989. Complete remissions (CRs) were obtained in 88 of 100 patients (88%), and there have been a total of eight relapses. The overall 3-year failure-free survival was 76%, with good-prognosis patients (ie, Karnofsky performance status greater than or equal to 80) having a 3-year failure-free survival of 87%. Toxicity with this regimen was minimal, with neutropenic fevers reported in 13% of the patient population, moderate alopecia in 5%, and mild to moderate nausea and vomiting in 11% of the patients. As primary induction therapy for Hodgkin's disease, CHLVPP is an effective regimen with a high patient acceptance profile. 
Bypass grafting to the popliteal artery in limbs with occluded crural arteries. Intraoperative completion angiograms of 47 femoropopliteal bypasses in limbs with occluded crural arteries were reviewed to identify the angiographic determinants of early outcome. Of 28 limbs in which the foot vessels were available for analysis, only 2 (7%) had an intact pedal circulation, and 18 limbs demonstrated no crural arteries suitable for distal reconstruction. The overall cumulative patency rate was 51% with a 76% limb salvage rate at 12 months. All seven grafts performed onto a popliteal artery segment of less than 8 cm occluded in the early period. The status of crural and foot arteries and the number of collaterals did not correlate well with early patency. Limbs with no patent crural artery that were analyzed in the poor angiographic runoff group, according to our previously reported classification, demonstrated relatively higher patency rates than the other subgroups with poor runoff. In cases where angiography demonstrates a poor runoff for distal revascularization, popliteal bypass with occluded crural arteries might achieve acceptable patency rates. 
Long-term survival and toxicity in small cell lung cancer. Expanded Southwest Oncology Group experience. The Southwest Oncology Group formed a database of 2,501 patients consecutively enrolled in small cell lung cancer (SCLC) trials since 1976. This report summarizes an analysis of this database to determine predictors of 2- and 5-year survival in limited stage disease (LD) and 1- and 2-year survival in extensive stage disease (ED). In addition, we analyzed the frequency of late recurrences, toxicity, and quality of life issues in the long-term survivors. For consecutive studies, greater than or equal to 2-year survival in LD were 15 percent, 21 percent, 28 percent, and 43 percent; 5-year survivals were 5 percent, 9 percent, 8 percent, and 20 percent. In ED, greater than or equal to 1-year survivals were 27 percent, 23 percent, 21 percent, and 42 percent; greater than or equal to 2-year survivals were 6 percent, 5 percent, 3 percent, and 19 percent. Using the logistic regression multivariate model, independent favorable predictors of 5-year survival for patients accrued to our older LD trials were normal lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) values and good performance status. Therapy as employed in these trials was not an independent factor. However, if patients enrolled on more recent trials were included, 2-year predictors could be assessed. Therapy with concurrent chemoradiotherapy and female gender then became additional independent favorable predictors. In ED, a single metastatic site and a normal LHH value were favorable predictors of survival beyond 1 year. The retrospective review of 63 patients with LD who survived at least 5 years found 33 asymptomatic patients with no recurrent disease; 6 with recurrent SCLC, 3 of whom died; 7 who died of non-cancer-related causes or unknown causes; 3 who died of secondary primary lung cancer; and 14 alive with persistent central nervous system symptoms and signs, possibly due to prophylactic brain radiation as given in the first 3 trials. No increased incidence of this syndrome has yet been observed in subsequent trials. For ED patients, 25 of 51 survivors greater than or equal to 2 years subsequently died of recurrent SCLC. The majority of the long-term survivors with ED (35 of 51) had either a single metastatic site or metastases limited to opposite side of the chest or regional nodes. Our multivariate models support the conclusion that aggressive combined modality, concurrent induction therapy, along with favorable prognostic variables, independently contribute to the improved long-term survival we have observed in LD. Longer follow-up is required to confirm that this improvement has occurred with less late toxicity. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: results of an early experience. Ninety consecutive patients over a 6-month period with acute (31 patients) or chronic (59 patients) cholecystitis underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy on an ambulatory (49 patients), one-night (33 patients), or two-night (5 patients) basis. Three patients required open procedures for 1) perforated duodenal ulcer at 48 h, postoperatively, 2) a cholecystoduodenal fistula, and 3) Mirizzis syndrome with erosion of the common duct. The procedure is safe, efficacious, and should be offered to patients with acute and chronic biliary disease. 
Altered cutaneous sensation in trigeminal neuralgia. Noninvasive quantitative somatosensory tests were used to measure sensory perception thresholds on the faces of 26 patients with idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia. The affected divisions were determined by the presence of trigger zones. Elevations of thresholds of sensations subserved by both large- and small-diameter fibers were found both in the affected and in the unaffected adjacent divisions when compared with the healthy side. The findings are interpreted as further evidence of combined peripheral and central pathologic conditions in idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia. 
Noninvasive imaging in acute coronary disease. A clinical perspective. Numerous highly complex and sensitive noninvasive imaging techniques have enhanced the care of patients with acute myocardial infarction. Optimum use requires specific objectives to be defined in advance, including a review of the potential impact of the test on subsequent decisions. An additional issue that is subject to scrutiny in the current climate of cost containment relates to the incremental value of a specific examination. The imaging modality to be used will partially depend on other issues, including accessibility, cost, and interindividual or institutional expertise with a particular technique. Major applications in noninvasive imaging in the acute coronary syndromes include the following: 1) diagnosis, including identification of associated diseases and contraindications for acute reperfusion; 2) evaluation and management of complications (mechanical and nonmechanical); 3) determination of prognosis (both early and late); 4) estimation of myocardial viability; 5) assessment of therapeutic efficacy; 6) investigational approaches, including 99mTc-sestamibi tomographic imaging, ultrafast cine computed tomographic scanning, and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging. Previous studies in the prethrombolytic era have documented the powerful impact of radionuclide stress testing on prognosis, but this needs to be reevaluated in the light of the changing current population undergoing stress testing. Preliminary data imply that the prognostic accuracy of stress testing after thrombolytic therapy is diminished. Moreover, the role of the open infarct-related artery in traditional estimates of prognosis (e.g., ejection fraction) requires further study. Noninvasive imaging has multiple applications in the diagnosis and management of patients with acute coronary disease, but the decision to use a specific technology in a particular circumstance mandates good clinical judgment and selectivity. 
Treatment of acute cluster headache with sumatriptan. The Sumatriptan Cluster Headache Study Group BACKGROUND. Attacks of cluster headache are difficult to treat. Sumatriptan, an agonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine1-like receptors, has proved effective in the treatment of migraine. The clinical similarities between migraine and cluster headache and positive results from an open pilot study in patients with cluster headache indicated that sumatriptan should be evaluated more rigorously in the treatment of this condition. METHODS. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study to assess the efficacy and tolerability of sumatriptan in 49 patients with cluster headache. The patients received, in random order, a subcutaneous injection of 6 mg of sumatriptan for one cluster-headache attack and placebo for another attack. The results for the two attacks could be fully evaluated for 39 patients. A response to treatment was defined as complete or almost complete relief of headache (no pain or mild pain) within 15 minutes after the injection. RESULTS. In the 39 patients, the severity of headache decreased in 74 percent of the attacks within 15 minutes of treatment with sumatriptan, as compared with 26 percent of the attacks for which placebo was given (P less than 0.001). Thirty-six percent of the patients were free of pain within 10 minutes after the administration of sumatriptan, as compared with 3 percent after placebo (P less than 0.001); by 15 minutes these numbers had increased to 46 percent and 10 percent, respectively (P less than 0.001). Thirteen percent of the patients required oxygen as an additional treatment 15 minutes after receiving sumatriptan, as compared with 49 percent of those who received placebo. The severity of functional disability and the incidence of ipsilateral conjunctival injection also decreased more in response to sumatriptan than placebo. Sumatriptan was well tolerated, and there were no serious adverse events. CONCLUSIONS. Sumatriptan is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for acute attacks of cluster headache. 
Importance of the aminoglycoside dosing regimen in the penicillin-netilmicin combination for treatment of Enterococcus faecalis-induced experimental endocarditis. The penicillin-aminoglycoside combination is recommended for the treatment of systemic enterococcal infections. However, the optimal dosing regimen of the aminoglycoside remains to be elucidated. We evaluated the efficacy of penicillin, alone or in combination with various dosing regimens of netilmicin, for the treatment of experimental left-sided Enterococcus faecalis endocarditis in rabbits. Animals were injected intramuscularly for 4 days with penicillin alone or in combination with netilmicin in one of the following regimens: netilmicin at a low dose (2 mg/kg of body weight every 8 h), netilmicin at a high dose (4 mg/kg every 8 h), or netilmicin at a single daily high dose (12 mg/kg every 24 h). MICs and MBCs were 3.1 and 6.2 micrograms/ml and 8 and 8 micrograms/ml for penicillin and netilmicin, respectively. A netilmicin concentration of 4 micrograms/ml was the lowest concentration that achieved synergism with penicillin, as shown by the kill-curve method. Mean peak levels of netilmicin in serum were 5.6 (netilmicin at 2 mg/kg), 9.8 (netilmicin at 4 mg/kg), and 20.6 (netilmicin at 12 mg/kg) micrograms/ml. Mean penicillin levels in serum were constantly above the MIC. Penicillin plus netilmicin at a high dose given three times daily was more effective (P less than 0.05) than any other regimen in reducing bacterial titers in vegetations and was the only treatment that induced a significant bactericidal activity in rabbit serum during the trough. We concluded that divided doses of aminoglycoside are more effective than the same total dose given once daily in combination with penicillin. 
Truncated forms of DNA-binding estrogen receptors in human breast cancer. The likelihood a breast cancer will respond to antiestrogen therapy depends on the tumor content of immunoreactive or ligand-binding estrogen receptor (ER). To investigate the failure of many ER-positive breast cancers to respond to antiestrogen therapy, we examined by gel-shift assay the ability of tumor ER to bind its cognate estrogen response element (ERE). Analysis of 38 primary breast cancers showed that some tumors containing abundant immunoreactive ER failed to demonstrate DNA binding ER. In many other ER-positive tumors, the fraction of DNA binding ER was low and consisted primarily of truncated receptor forms, which on Western analysis were revealed to be 50 kD homodimers and 67-50 kD ER heterodimers. The use of protease inhibitors during tumor extraction and the demonstration of nuclear-localizing ER and ERE-binding COUP (chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter) protein in these tumors indicated that the truncated forms of ER were likely present in vivo. The presence of intact DNA binding ER correlated with higher tumor content of immunoreactive sex steroid receptors (ER and/or PR), standard predictors of tumor responsiveness to antiestrogen, suggesting that loss or truncation of DNA binding ER may be an important prognostic parameter accounting for some forms of clinical resistance to antiestrogen therapy. 
Frequency of late reversibility in stress-redistribution thallium-201 SPECT using an early reinjection protocol. To assess the efficacy of an early thallium-201 reinjection protocol for reducing the need for late redistribution imaging, the frequency of thallium-201 late reversibility was prospectively assessed in 62 patients who had stress-redistribution thallium-201 studies by single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT), and who received 1 mCi of thallium-201 reinjection immediately following stress tomographic acquisition. These patients also demonstrated greater than or equal to 2 segments with nonreversible defects at 4-hour imaging and underwent late (18-to 72-hour) redistribution imaging. When the criterion of late reversibility was defined as greater than or equal to 1 segment with a 4-hour nonreversible defect demonstrating late reversibility, late reversibility was present in 36 (58%) of the 62 patients and in 88 (24%) of 368 SPECT segments. When the criterion of greater than or equal to 2 segments was used, late reversibility was found in 21 (34%) of the 62 patients and in 73 (20%) of the 368 segments. Of the 21 patients who had greater than or equal to 2 late reversible segments, 12 (57%) exhibited late reversibility in greater than or equal to 3 segments. The frequency of detected reversible defects increased from 32% by 4-hour imaging to 48% by combined 4-hour and late imaging (p less than 0.0001). The patients who demonstrated late reversibility could not be distinguished from those who had only late nonreversible defects by analysis of the clinical, exercise, and electrocardiographic (ECG) variables. 
Gaze-dependent hemianopia without hemispatial neglect. A hemispheric field is the space defined by the midsagittal plane of the body. Hemianopia, in the absence of hemispheric spatial neglect, has been thought to be purely retinotopic. Confrontation testing of visual fields in eccentric positions of gaze in hemianopic patients permits the discrimination of hemispheric from retinotopic deficits. In the primary position of gaze, a patient with an ischemic lesion of the right occipital and temporal lobes, who was without unilateral spatial neglect, was unable to detect finger movement, name objects, or identify shapes or colors in the left retinotopic hemifield, but when gazing 30 degrees to the right (so that the left retinotopic field was in the right hemispheric field), he performed nearly as well in the left retinotopic field as in the right. The mechanism of this gaze-dependent hemifield visual impairment is unknown, but we discuss four possibilities: (1) eccentric gaze enhances an alternative visual system; (2) the lesion led to modality-specific hemispheric inattention that was corrected by directing intention (plan to act) and gazing to the right; (3) the lesion led to modality specific inattention that was corrected by compensatory mechanisms that may normally enhance attentive vigilance in central space during eccentric gaze; and (4) the neuronal substrate for hemispheric vision was destroyed, whereas that for retinotopic vision was preserved. 
Cutaneous and subcutaneous leiomyosarcoma: a clinicopathological review of 14 cases with reference to antidesmin staining and nuclear DNA patterns studied by flow cytometry. Among 14 patients (11 female and three male) with cutaneous and subcutaneous leiomyosarcomas, metastatic spread occurred in six of the 13 patients with adequate follow-up. The tumours were classified with regard to tumour grade, number of mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields, reactivity to antidesmin antibodies, and DNA pattern as assessed by flow cytometry. Antidesmin antibody staining was present in only six cases and seemed to be less common in the higher-grade tumours. The DNA pattern was aneuploid in five cases and non-classifiable in one case; all of these cases had metastatic spread. None of the eight remaining diploid cases had metastatic spread. DNA content was a strong predictor of metastatic potential. 
Quantitative nuclear DNA content in fine needle aspirates of pancreatic cancer. The quantitative nuclear DNA content of nuclei from fine needle aspirations from 70 patients with pancreatic cancer was measured using an image analyser system. Retrospective analysis of patients indicated that cases with tumour stemlines in the diploid region had the best chance for radical surgery (p less than 0.006) and the best probability of survival (p less than 0.0004). The prognosis for patients with tetraploid stemlines was intermediate and was poorest for patients with no stemlines in the diploid-tetraploid region. From those parameters assessed postoperatively, only the tumour stage added appreciable information on prognosis to the preoperative quantitative DNA content obtainable. Therefore, in patients with pancreatic cancer the quantitative DNA content should be taken into account in planning treatment and assessing prognosis. Furthermore, the quantitative DNA content may have a major role in stratification for further treatment trials. 
Role of lymphangiography in staging testicular seminoma. Bipedal lymphangiography (LAG) and abdominal/pelvic computerized tomography (CT) are both useful in evaluating retroperitoneal lymph nodes in early-stage testicular seminoma. Fifty-four patients who had both radiologic studies performed between 1982 and 1986 were identified, and their films were reviewed. Four patients had evidence of retroperitoneal lymph node metastases on both CT and LAG. Of the 50 patients who had normal findings on CT scan, 39 (78%) had a normal LAG and 11 (22%) had a positive LAG. All 11 patients had architectural abnormalities within normal-sized nodes. No patient had positive findings on CT with negative LAG. In addition to aiding in staging, LAG is very useful in designing radiation treatment portals. Therefore, we believe that LAG can continue to play an important role in the accurate staging and treatment of patients with testicular seminoma. 
Spontaneous in vitro secretion of antibody to cytomegalovirus (CMV) by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells: a new approach to studying the CMV-immune system interaction. The in vitro secretion of cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific antibodies by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was analyzed in patients with acute CMV infection and CMV-seropositive patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus. This active and spontaneous in vitro secretion was not affected by the depletion of T cells or adherent cells. The number of anti-CMV antibody-secreting cells was estimated to be 28-176/10(6) PBMC; 30%-65% of the total in vitro antibody production was CMV-specific. This secretion seemed to be independent of in vitro polyclonal B cell activation, in vitro antigen-specific lymphocyte stimulation, or in vivo Epstein-Barr virus-induced B cell transformation. In vitro anti-CMV antibody production may therefore result from an in vivo stimulation of the immune system by CMV antigens and might indicate CMV replication in the host. 
Lack of effect of PN 200-110 on neuronal injury and neurological outcome in middle cerebral artery-occluded rats. We evaluated the influence of a continuous intravenous infusion of 0.24 mg/kg PN 200-110 started 20 minutes before the induction of ischemia and continued for 2 hours on infarct size, histopathology, and neurological outcome in middle cerebral artery-occluded rats treated with PN 200-110 (n = 8), placebo (n = 7), or saline (n = 8). Neurological examination was performed 24 hours after occlusion. We quantified infarct size by 2,3,5-triphenyl-tetrazolium chloride, hematoxylin and eosin, and Nissl staining and by computerized analysis of tracings of the infarcted areas and evaluated neuronal injury at the infarct periphery. The different types of ischemic cell damage were quantified by direct visual counting. We found no differences among saline-, placebo-, and PN 200-110-treated rats regarding infarct size, amount of neuronal alteration, and neurological outcome. Our results indicate the lack of a significant protective effect of this drug in experimental focal ischemia. 
Cardiac toxicity 4 to 20 years after completing anthracycline therapy. OBJECTIVE.--To assess the cardiac status of long-term survivors of pediatric malignancies who received chemotherapy, including anthracyclines. DESIGN AND METHOD.-Patients were evaluated by echocardiogram from 4 to 20 years (median, 7 years) after completion of anthracyclines, with prospective and retrospective analysis. PATIENTS.--The consecutive sample of 201 patients had received a total anthracycline dose of 200 to 1275 mg/m2 (median, 450 mg/m2), and 51 patients had mediastinal radiotherapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--The overall incidence and severity of abnormal systolic cardiac function were determined for the entire cohort. Risk factors of total anthracycline dose, mediastinal radiotherapy, age during treatment, and length of follow-up were examined. RESULTS.--Twenty-three percent (47/201) of the cohort had abnormal cardiac function on noninvasive testing at long-term follow-up. Correlation between total cumulative dose, length of follow-up, and mediastinal irradiation with incidence of abnormalities was significant. Fifty-six patients were followed up for 10 years or more (median, 12 years), with a median anthracycline dose of 495 mg/m2. Thirty-eight percent (21/56) of these patients, compared with 18% (26/145) of patients evaluated after less than 10 years, had abnormal findings. Sixty-three percent of patients followed up for 10 years or more after receiving 500 mg/m2 or more of anthracyclines had abnormal findings. Nine of 201 patients had late symptoms, including cardiac failure and dysrhythmia, and three patients died suddenly. Microscopic examination of the myocardium on biopsy and autopsy revealed fibrosis. CONCLUSION.--The 23% incidence of late cardiac abnormalities warrants continued evaluation of patients after anthracyclines to guide patient care and the design of future chemotherapeutic protocols. 
Subcutaneous sarcoma. A population-based study of 129 patients. We reviewed 129 patients with subcutaneous sarcoma diagnosed from 1964 to the end of 1985 in a population-based series of sarcoma cases from southern Sweden. The annual incidence was 0.4 per 100,000, comprising 32% of all soft-tissue sarcomas of the extremities or the trunk wall. Compared to deep-seated sarcomas, subcutaneous tumours were half the size at diagnosis, more common in the lower leg and foot, more often malignant fibrous histiocytoma, and of a lower grade of malignancy. None of the low-grade and only 7% of the high-grade tumours recurred locally after wide local excision without radiotherapy. The cumulative five-year survival for all 129 patients was 80%. Multivariate analysis identified only high grade of malignancy and the size of the tumour (greater than 5 cm) as independent prognostic factors. We conclude that systemic or local adjuvant therapy is not generally indicated for subcutaneous sarcoma because of the good prognosis and low local recurrence rate after wide excision. 
Decline in ischaemic heart disease in Iceland and change in risk factor levels. OBJECTIVE--To monitor trends in mortality and morbidity due to ischaemic heart disease and compare these with observed levels of risk factors from population surveys. DESIGN--Analysis of trends in death rates from ischaemic heart disease in Iceland compared with expected rates computed from population surveys. Risk factor levels together with beta factors obtained from Cox's regression analysis were used to compute expected death rates. Trends in morbidity due to acute myocardial infarction were assessed and secular trends in dietary consumption compared with trends in cholesterol concentrations. SETTING--Reykjavik, Iceland (total population 250,000; over half the population live in Reykjavik). SUBJECTS--12,814 randomly selected residents in the Reykjavik area aged 45-64 (6623 men, 6191 women; 72% and 80% of those invited). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Age adjusted rates of myocardial infarction and deaths from ischaemic heart disease. Expected risk from risk factor levels (smoking, total serum cholesterol concentration, systolic blood pressure) at each unique survey visit. RESULTS--Mortality from ischaemic heart disease has decreased by 17-18% since 1970. During 1981-6 the myocardial infarction attack rate in men under 75 decreased by 23%. A decrease occurred in the level of all three major risk factors after 1968. The fall in the serum cholesterol concentration coincided with a reduction in consumption of dairy fat and margarine. The calculated reduction in risk for the age group 45-64 was about 35%, which was closely similar to the observed decrease in mortality due to ischaemic heart disease in that age group. CONCLUSION--The reduction in mortality from ischaemic heart disease was substantially due to a decreased incidence of myocardial infarction and could be attributed largely to the reduction in risk factors. 
Steel-Dickie mutation encodes a c-kit ligand lacking transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains. Mice homozygous for the viable Sl allele steel-Dickie (Sld) are sterile, severely anemic, and black-eyed white. The nature of the Sld mutation was investigated at the molecular level and was found to be due to a 4.0-kilobase intragenic deletion in mast cell growth factor (MGF) genomic sequences, providing conclusive evidence that Sl encodes MGF. As a consequence of this deletion, Sld is only capable of encoding a soluble truncated growth factor that lacks both transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains. Northern analysis indicates that Sld mRNA is expressed at approximately wild-type levels in adult tissues, and yeast expression studies suggest that the Sld protein is as biologically active as wild-type soluble MGF. These studies provide a molecular basis for explaining the Sld phenotype, a description of a germ-line mutation in the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of a membrane-bound growth factor, and in vivo evidence for the importance of membrane-bound forms of growth factors in mammalian development. 
Round atelectasis in a 20-year-old woman. Round atelectasis is an unusual pulmonary pseudotumor often associated with primary pleural pathologic conditions or pleural effusion. We report the case of a 20-year-old woman who was found to have a large, circular pulmonary lesion demonstrated on both plain chest x-ray film and computed chest tomography. The patient underwent exploratory thoracotomy, at which time this uncommon entity was identified. 
A phase I trial of taxol given by a 6-hour intravenous infusion. Taxol is a unique mitotic inhibitor that has entered phase II investigation. Phase I studies demonstrated hypersensitivity reactions that were related to the cremophor vehicle and to the rate of drug infusion. As a result, the time span of intravenous (IV) infusion of taxol was routinely prolonged to 6 hours or beyond, and premedication with diphenhydramine, dexamethasone, and cimetidine was initiated. Early studies showed antitumor activity, especially against malignant melanoma and ovarian carcinoma. This phase I trial was performed giving taxol, as a 6-hour IV infusion every 21 days, without premedication. The purpose was to study the necessity of premedication and its impact on toxicity and pharmacokinetics. Thirty-one patients received 64 assessable courses of taxol. One patient had a hypersensitivity reaction, which was easily controlled using routine measures. Myelosuppression was dose-limiting, but sporadic, with two fatalities due to sepsis. Nonhematologic toxicity was of grade 1 and 2 except for one patient with grade 3 mucositis and two patients with grade 3 neuropathy. The neuropathy consisted of reversible painful paresthesias, requiring discontinuation of drug in two patients. Four partial responses were seen (three in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer, one in a patient with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary). Pharmacokinetic values were consistent with those previously reported. The occurrence of myelosuppression or neurotoxicity appeared to be associated with the area under the concentration x time curve (AUC) of taxol. The recommended phase II starting dose on this schedule is 225 mg/m2. Taxol merits broad investigation at the phase II level. 
HLA association with dermatitis herpetiformis is accounted for by a cis or transassociated DQ heterodimer. HLA-DR, DQ, and DP restriction fragment genotyping was undertaken in 23 dermatitis herpetiformis patients and 53 healthy control subjects. HLA-DQw2 was present in 100% of patients with dermatitis herpetiformis (23 of 23) versus 40% of control subjects (21 of 53). Significant secondary associations occurred with HLA-DR3 (91% of patients versus 28% of control subjects) and DPw1 (39% of patients versus 11% of control subjects). Dermatitis herpetiformis and coeliac disease thus share an identical HLA class II association. It is likely that HLA class II genes directly influence the immune responses leading to mucosal damage in both diseases. The strongest candidate for disease susceptibility to dermatitis herpetiformis is DQw2. The HLA molecule most likely to be involved in coeliac disease is a specific DQ alpha/DQ beta heterodimer, encoded in cis arrangement in DR3 haplotypes or in trans arrangement in a DR5, 7 genotype. Our data on dermatitis herpetiformis patients fits this model perfectly. All these patients are capable of expressing this molecule, which may be responsible for the gluten sensitive enteropathy seen in a subgroup of patients with dermatitis herpetiformis and coeliac disease. 
Malignant tumours in patients with a history of multiple laryngeal papillomas: the significance of irradiation. For a period of more than 30 years irradiation was used in the treatment of multiple laryngeal papillomas, especially in children. The treatment was discontinued because a number of irradiated patients developed laryngeal carcinomas. There are however a number of reports of laryngeal and even bronchial carcinomas arising in patients with laryngeal papillomas who had not been irradiated. In addition, HPV type 11 has recently been found in laryngeal papillomas as well as in laryngeal and bronchial carcinomas, subsequently arising in the same patients, both irradiated and non-irradiated. The analysis of a series of 113 patients with laryngeal papillomas has shown that irradiated patients have a 16-fold increased risk of a subsequent carcinoma in the respiratory system. 
Influence of perfusate pH on the postischemic recovery of cardiac contractile function: involvement of sodium-hydrogen exchange. During reperfusion with pH 7.2 media after 55 min of ischemia, the recovery of developed tension (DT) and the maximal resting tension (RT) of the isolated right ventricular wall of rats were 58.8 +/- 6.5 and 201 +/- 20%, respectively, of the preischemic values. DT and RT in the ventricular wall perfused with pH 7.9 media for 6 min during reperfusion were 40 +/- 5.9 and 285 +/- 13%, respectively, of the preischemic values (P less than .05 vs. pH 7.2 group). The Na(+)-H+ exchange inhibitor, 5-(N,N-dimethyl)amiloride (DMA), effectively antagonized the detrimental effect of pH 7.9 media. A pH 6.5 media inhibited DT recovery and the rise in RT in the first 6 min of reperfusion. Subsequent reperfusion with pH 7.2 media resulted in cardiac dysfunction similar to that observed when reperfused at pH 7.2 only. Cellular Na+ and Ca++ were significantly elevated after 6 min of reperfusion at pH 7.2. Na+ and Ca++ levels were increased further if reperfusion was carried out at pH 7.9. Inclusion of 20 microM DMA during reperfusion at 7.9 significantly reduced cellular Na+ and Ca++. Creatine phosphokinase activity in the coronary effluent rose significantly during reperfusion at pH 7.2 and this was exacerbated if the reperfusion pH was 7.9. DMA treatment during reperfusion could significantly inhibit this elevation. The data lend further support for an important role of Na(+)-H+ exchange in the development of ischemia-reperfusion injury. 
Postmenopausal estrogen therapy and cardiovascular disease. Ten-year follow-up from the nurses' health study BACKGROUND. The effect of postmenopausal estrogen therapy on the risk of cardiovascular disease remains controversial. Our 1985 report in the Journal, based on four years of follow-up, suggested that estrogen therapy reduced the risk of coronary heart disease, but a report published simultaneously from the Framingham Study suggested that the risk was increased. In addition, studies of the effect of estrogens on stroke have yielded conflicting results. METHODS. We followed 48,470 postmenopausal women, 30 to 63 years old, who were participants in the Nurses' Health Study, and who did not have a history of cancer or cardiovascular disease at base line. During up to 10 years of follow-up (337,854 person-years), we documented 224 strokes, 405 cases of major coronary disease (nonfatal myocardial infarctions or deaths from coronary causes), and 1263 deaths from all causes. RESULTS. After adjustment for age and other risk factors, the overall relative risk of major coronary disease in women currently taking estrogen was 0.56 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.40 to 0.80); the risk was significantly reduced among women with either natural or surgical menopause. We observed no effect of the duration of estrogen use independent of age. The findings were similar in analyses limited to women who had recently visited their physicians (relative risk, 0.45; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.31 to 0.66) and in a low-risk group that excluded women reporting current cigarette smoking, diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, or a Quetelet index above the 90th percentile (relative risk, 0.53; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.31 to 0.91). The relative risk for current and former users of estrogen as compared with those who had never used it was 0.89 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.78 to 1.00) for total mortality and 0.72 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.55 to 0.95) for mortality from cardiovascular disease. The relative risk of stroke when current users were compared with those who had never used estrogen was 0.97 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.65 to 1.45), with no marked differences according to type of stroke. CONCLUSIONS. Current estrogen use is associated with a reduction in the incidence of coronary heart disease as well as in mortality from cardiovascular disease, but it is not associated with any change in the risk of stroke. 
Treatment of 'vasomotor rhinitis' by the local application of silver nitrate. A series of 52 patients were closely assessed prospectively to determine the effectiveness, untoward effects and patient acceptance of a new method of treatment of 'vasomotor rhinitis' by silver nitrate application. The patient's age ranged from 11 to 50 years except one who was 58 years old. The report describes the technique used and results obtained following the painting of the 'trigger area' of the nasal mucosa in patients with 'vasomotor rhinitis'. Each patient was evaluated regularly and the evaluation was based on both subjective response and clinical examination. Only cases who had rhinorrhoea and sneezing as presenting symptoms were selected. Silver nitrate (20 per cent) was used after topical anaesthesia, and patients received four applications. Successful relief was obtained in 88.5 per cent (53.0 per cent good relief; 34.6 per cent acceptable relief), while 11.5 per cent of the cases (6 out of 52 cases) had poor relief. No complication was seen among the patients during treatment and follow-up and no silver poisoning was detected. 
Acetaminophen induced pancreatitis. This is the fourth reported case of acute pancreatitis associated with acetaminophen overdose. The patient had ingested the smallest amount of acetaminophen (9.75-13 g) that has been reported to produce acute pancreatitis. This patient also suffered liver and renal impairment and developed an ileus and ascites. Despite late therapy and laboratory tests that indicated a poor prognosis the patient made a complete recovery without sequelae. 
Effects of atrial natriuretic peptide on ischemic brain edema in rats evaluated by proton magnetic resonance method. We examined the effect of atrial natriuretic peptide on cerebral edema in 96 rats. Forty-four rats were given 30 (n = 11), 120 (n = 26), or 150 (n = 7) micrograms/kg of the peptide intravenously over 24 hours after occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery to induce cerebral ischemia. We then measured the brain water content, the brain sodium and potassium contents, the in vitro proton nuclear magnetic resonance longitudinal (T1) and transverse (T2) relaxation times, and the area of the edematous regions. Compared with saline treatment (n = 39), peptide treatment decreased the brain water content in a dose-dependent manner and decreased the brain sodium content significantly (p less than 0.05). Peptide treatment also suppressed the lengthening of both T1 and T2 in edematous tissue (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively) and reduced the area of the edematous regions observed by magnetic resonance imaging (p less than 0.01). Atrial natriuretic peptide appears to have a pharmacological effect on ischemic brain edema, possibly by suppressing the elevation of water content through regulation of electrolyte transport in the brain. 
Infected intracranial aneurysm in an infant: case report. The case of a ruptured, infected intracranial aneurysm occurring in a 34-day-old child is reported. The child was brought for examination after a sudden onset of screaming and pallor, followed by focal seizures. Blood cultures grew Staphylococcus aureus, and a computed tomographic scan revealed a large hematoma in the region of the left sylvian fissure. An angiogram demonstrated a 17-mm aneurysm arising from a small branch of the middle cerebral artery. At craniotomy, the hematoma was evacuated and an infected aneurysm was removed. The etiology, pathogenesis, and management of infected intracranial aneurysms is discussed. Our patient is the youngest in whom such an aneurysm has yet been reported. 
Non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema after transfusion with granulocyte antibody containing blood: treatment with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. A 45-yr-old man developed severe non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema after a blood transfusion reaction which was resistant to standard therapy. We describe its successful treatment with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 
An in-depth study of long-term users of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). Implications for clinical use of TENS. This in-depth study examines the relationships between patient, stimulator and outcome variables in a large number of chronic pain patients utilising TENS on a long-term basis. 179 patients completed a TENS questionnaire designed to record age, sex, cause and site of pain and TENS treatment regime. Of these 179 patients, 107 attended our research unit for assessment of the electrical characteristics of TENS during self-administered treatment. Although a remarkable lack of correlation between patient, stimulator and outcome variables was found to exist, the analysis revealed much information of importance: 47% of patients found TENS reduced their pain by more than half; TENS analgesia was rapid both in onset (less than 0.5 h in 75% patients) and in offset (less than 0.5 h in 51% patients); one-third of patients utilised TENS for over 61 h/week; pulse frequencies between 1 and 70 Hz were utilised by 75% of patients; 44% of patients benefitted from burst mode stimulation. The clinical implications of these findings are discussed. 
Symptom-limited exercise testing causes sustained diastolic dysfunction in patients with coronary disease and low effort tolerance. Exercise stress testing is routinely used for the noninvasive assessment of coronary artery disease and is considered a safe procedure. However, the provocation of severe ischemia might potentially cause delayed recovery of myocardial function. To investigate the possibility that maximal exercise testing could induce prolonged impairment of left ventricular function, 15 patients with angiographically proved coronary disease and 9 age-matched control subjects with atypical chest pain and normal coronary arteries were studied. Radionuclide ventriculography was performed at rest, at peak exercise, during recovery and 2 and 7 days after exercise. Ejection fraction, peak filling and peak emptying rates and left ventricular wall motion were analyzed. All control subjects had a normal exercise test at maximal work loads and improved left ventricular function on exercise. Patients developed 1 mm ST depression at 217 +/- 161 s at a work load of 70 +/- 30 W and a rate-pressure product of 18,530 +/- 4,465 mm Hg x beats/min. Although exercise was discontinued when angina or equivalent symptoms occurred, in all patients diagnostic ST depression (greater than or equal to 1 mm) developed much earlier than symptoms. Predictably, at peak exercise patients showed a decrease in ejection fraction and peak emptying and filling rates. Ejection fraction and peak emptying rate normalized within the recovery period, whereas peak filling rate remained depressed throughout recovery (p less than 0.002) and was still reduced 2 days after exercise (p less than 0.02). In conclusion, in patients with severe impairement of coronary flow reserve, maximal exercise may cause sustained impairement of diastolic function. 
Myoclonic spasms after epidural diamorphine infusion. A case is presented in which myoclonus occurred after epidural diamorphine infusion. Reports of this phenomenon following other epidural drugs and possible mechanisms are discussed. 
Treatment of a large odontogenic keratocyst using the Brosch procedure. The modified Brosch procedure has been described. It represents a reasonable alternative to resection or marsupialization when treating large OKC that occupy the molar, angle, and ramus regions of the mandible. Extraction of teeth affected by the lesion as well as generous removal of partially eroded bone and overlying soft tissues may contribute to lower recurrence rates. Cryosurgical or mechanical treatment of the bony cavity, which is well visualized using this technique, may also lead to improved long-term results. Treatment must be followed by continued, careful observation of the patient. 
Sticks and stones may break my bones ... reasoning about illness causality and body functioning in children who have a chronic illness. Children's concepts about illness causality and bodily functioning change in a predictable way with advancing age. Differences in the understanding of these concepts in healthy children vs children with a chronic illness have not been clearly delineated. This study included 49 children with a seizure disorder, 47 children with an orthopaedic condition, and 96 healthy children, all with normal intelligence and ranging in age from 5 to 16 years. It demonstrates systematic differences in children's general reasoning skills and in their understanding of concepts about illness causality and bodily functioning, as a function of their age and experience of illness. At all ages, children who had a condition with orthopaedic involvement reported less sophisticated general reasoning and concepts about illness than did healthy children; children with a seizure disorder reported similar general reasoning skills to those of healthy children, but considerably less sophisticated concepts about illness. Children's concepts about body functioning did not differ as a function of the presence of a chronic illness. When their different levels of general cognitive reasoning were statistically controlled, children with a chronic illness had somewhat more sophisticated concepts about bodily functioning than did healthy children. Differences in conceptual development among children with different types of illnesses lead to interesting speculations with regard to the effects of particular illness characteristics on children's cognitive development. 
Cytogenetic analysis of sperm from a man heterozygous for a pericentric inversion, inv (3) (p25q21). Human sperm chromosomes were studied in a man heterozygous for a pericentric inversion of chromosome 3(p25q21). The pronuclear chromosomes were analyzed after in vitro penetration of golden hamster eggs. A total of 144 sperm were examined: 69.2% were chromosomally balanced and 30.8% were recombinant. Of the balanced complements, the proportion with a normal chromosome 3 (37.6%) was approximately equal to the proportion with an inverted 3 (31.6%). Of the recombinant complements, the proportion of sperm with a duplication q/deletion p (17.3%) was approximately equal to the reciprocal event of duplication p/deletion q (13.5%). The recombinant chromosome 3 with a duplication q and deletion p has been observed in several abnormal children, but the duplication p/deletion q has never been reported. My results demonstrate that both recombinant chromosomes are produced as expected from an unequal number of crossovers within an inversion loop. In all likelihood the duplication p/deletion q chromosome is an early embryonic lethal because of the amount of genetic material deleted. The proportions of X-bearing (48.9%) and Y-bearing sperm (51.1%) were not significantly different from the expected 1:1 ratio. There was no evidence for an interchromosomal effect. Of the three inversions studied by human sperm chromosome analysis, recombinant chromosomes have been observed only in this case. 
Incidence of cerebral hemorrhage after treatment with tissue plasminogen activator or streptokinase following embolic stroke in rabbits [corrected] [published erratum appears in Stroke 1991 Feb;22(2):285] We studied thrombolysis in an animal model of embolic stroke to determine the safety of tissue plasminogen activator and streptokinase. We occluded the middle cerebral arteries of 137 rabbits with radiolabeled blood clots and administered tissue plasminogen activator (n = 49), streptokinase (n = 40), or saline (n = 48) at various times after embolization. We assessed the rate of thrombolysis and cerebral hemorrhage 24 hours later. Both drugs were very effective in producing thrombolysis. Compared with saline, streptokinase caused a significant increase in the rate of cerebral hemorrhage (p less than 0.05), but tissue plasminogen activator did not. We conclude that thrombolytic therapy for acute stroke should be safer with tissue plasminogen activator than with streptokinase. 
Ultrastructural heterogeneity of epithelioid cells in cutaneous organized granulomas of diverse etiology In organized granulomatous inflammation, activated macrophages terminally differentiate into epithelioid cells (ECs). By light microscopy, individual ECs appear similar, irrespective of the inciting agent. Ultrastructural analysis of a number of clinical and experimental granulomas in man and mice reveals, however, three distinct varieties of these cells. They are classified as follows: (1) EC-I cells containing a mixture of lysosomal-dense bodies and phagolysosomes and arrays of rough endoplasmic reticulum in the cytoplasm; (2) EC-II cells showing primarily a secretory mode with prominent Golgi bodies and rich arrangement of dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum with no phagocytic vacuoles; and (3) EC-III cells containing large multisized vesicles crowded throughout the cytoplasm and presently of unknown function. Although the unique appearance of these cells offers little diagnostic help, the cells do distribute differentially in different granulomas. The EC-I cells tend to predominate in infectious granulomas and where an excess of foreign material and debris is present. The EC-II cells are most characteristic of active sarcoidal granulomas, and the EC-III cells appear in chronic, long-standing granulomas. The heterogeneic nature of these cells seems to suggest their functions in granulomatous inflammation are not always the same. 
The influence of intraoperative hypotension and perioperative blood transfusion on disease-free survival in patients with complete resection of colorectal liver metastases. An increased interest in surgical treatment of liver metastases from colorectal origin has evolved recently. However not all patients benefit from this approach, with early recurrence and death still being encountered. To evaluate clinical as well as perioperative factors that might significantly affect the outcome of patients with completely resected colorectal liver metastases, we examined 116 patients who underwent resection between September 1987 and August 1989. Median follow-up time was 13.2 months (0.6 to 31.4 months). The overall survival rate was 91% at 1 year and 75% at 2 years. Median survival was not reached. Median disease-free survival time was 11.5 months, with 49.4% and 21.2% of the patients being free of disease at 1 and 2 years, respectively. By univariate analysis, site of primary colorectal cancer, preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level, size of metastases, number of metastases, length of operation time, percentage mean arterial pressure, number of hypotensive episodes, duration of hypotensive episodes, and whole blood transfusion significantly affected recurrence rate following resection. However only site of primary tumor, CEA, number of metastases, and number of hypotensive episodes remained significant in the multivariate analysis. The most significant single factor that affected recurrence rate was the number of hypotensive episodes during the operative procedure. It is concluded that hypotensive episodes, even when well controlled, should be avoided during operation to maximize the chances of cure and prolong disease-free survival of patients with colorectal liver metastases. 
Two studies of pacing in the nursing home. Two studies concerning pacing by nursing home residents are presented. The first was a cross-sectional survey of 402 residents, which found that 39% of the subjects were pacers. In comparison to residents who did not pace, the pacers had fewer medical diagnoses, better appetites, and had resided in the facility for fewer years. Additionally, pacing was positively related to cognitive impairment and to past life-threatening experiences. Results of the second study, an observational study of six cognitively impaired residents who paced frequently, showed that these residents paced more when the environmental conditions were conducive to pacing (e.g., adequate lighting, enough room within which to pace). We believe that pacing is a reflection of good health within the nursing home population and suggest that caregivers may want to encourage rather than inhibit this behavior in some nursing home residents. 
Helicobacter pylori-negative duodenal ulcer. Most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer (DU) craters have gastritis associated with Helicobacter pylori (HP), now thought to be the major cause of DU. A smaller proportion of DU patients have no detectable HP. In this study, we examined the frequency and causes of HP-negative duodenal ulcers. In 302 consecutive patients with endoscopic diagnosis of duodenal ulcer, 284 (94%) were found to have associated HP gastritis, whereas 18 (6%) were HP-negative on histology, culture, and urease test. The largest subgroup of HP-negative patients (8/18) was made up of those who had been taking nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), followed closely (4/18) by patients with recent intake of antibiotics. Causes of DU in the remaining subgroups included two patients with duodenal Crohn's disease, two with Gastrospirillum hominis infection, one with penetrating carcinoma of the pancreas and one with no detectable cause. We conclude that, although the most common causal factor of duodenal ulcer is HP, some 6% of DU's will be HP-negative, signaling unusual etiology. It is now important to identify the cause of duodenal ulcer so as to initiate appropriate therapy. 
Health implications of obesity. The health risks of obesity increase with its severity and reach significance at a weight greater than 20% above optimal, by using life insurance tables, or at a body mass index greater than 27. Risks include hypertension, insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, and, in some studies, high total-and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol. There is an increased mortality from endometrial cancer in women and from colorectal cancer in men. Chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia, sleep apnea, gout, and degenerative joint disease can occur with more severe obesity. The distribution of body fat is directly related to these health risks. Abdominal obesity is more dangerous than gluteal-femoral obesity because the amount of intraabdominal fat seems to determine much of the increased peril; therefore, risks of cardiovascular disease, stroke, hypertension, and diabetes increase with abdominal obesity, even independently of total fat mass. 
Helicobacter pylori and gastric histamine concentrations. An enzyme isotopic assay was used to determine the histamine concentration in the gastric mucosa of patients positive for Helicobacter pylori with (n = 11) and without duodenal ulceration (n = 9) and in negative controls (n = 7). A significant difference was observed when the histamine content of H pylori negative subjects was compared with that of positive patients. On the other hand, there was no significant difference in histamine concentration between H pylori positive patients with duodenal ulceration and those without duodenal ulceration. H pylori positive patients with and without duodenal ulceration had significantly lower gastric histamine concentrations than H pylori negative subjects. The lower gastric histamine concentration observed in H pylori positive patients might be due to increased histamine release which could in turn induce increased gastric acid secretion. 
Review of fluorescein angiograms performed in one year. In this study 374 consecutive fundus fluorescein angiograms (FFAs) were performed on 330 patients. Of these, 165 (50%) were investigated for age related maculopathy. In only 12% did this investigation lead to an alteration in treatment. The remaining 50% of angiograms were requested for diabetic patients (15%), retinal vein occlusion (5%), tumours (6%), and various other disorders. In the diabetic patients treatment could have proceeded without FFA in 24% of patients who underwent it. Missed diagnoses corrected by angiography and areas where unnecessary angiograms were performed were identified. One interesting subgroup of eight patients with unexplained loss of central vision was identified. Careful clinical examination had failed to reveal any abnormality. FFAs were of no diagnostic value in these patients. 
An analysis of sequential physiologic changes in hypoxic cor pulmonale during long-term oxygen therapy. Physiologic changes were studied retrospectively in 37 patients with hypoxic cor pulmonale who died during long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT). The subjects were assessed during periods of clinical stability for each year on LTOT. At the onset of treatment, their mean age (+/- SEM) was 60.0 +/- 1.3 years, and at the time of death, they were aged 65.0 +/- 1.3 years. The median duration of LTOT was five years. For each year leading up to death, mean values of FEV1, PaO2, and PaCO2 were obtained. A rate of decline of FEV1 of 73 +/- 10 ml/yr was observed, and this was accompanied by a decline in PaO2 of 0.47 +/- 0.01 kPa/yr. Patients died with a mean FEV1 of 0.55 +/- 0.04 L and a PaO2 of 5.1 +/- 0.2 kPa. A small rise in PaCO2 occurred, on average 0.25 +/- 0.09 kPa/yr, throughout the study, but accelerating in many cases during the three years before death. Hypoxic cor pulmonale appears to be associated with a rapid deterioration in airway function, a steady decline in PaO2, and a slow rise in PaCO2 during the years leading up to death. These physiologic changes measured in a stable clinical state while breathing air appear to occur in spite of LTOT. The LTOT may merely prevent death from episodes of severe hypoxemia while the pathophysiologic changes in the lung progress. Hence the benefit to be expected from LTOT is only temporary. Generally, those patients with lower levels of FEV1 will obtain diminishing clinical benefit, inversely related to the severity of airflow obstruction at the time of commencement of LTOT. 
Soft tissue sarcoma of the pleural cavity. Seventeen cases of soft tissue sarcoma (STS) developing in the pleural cavity were collected from Japanese hospitals, and their clinical and pathologic findings summarized. Eight of the 17 patients had a 15-year to 50-year (mean, 28.8) history of chronic pleural inflammatory disease (pleuritis, pyothorax, and pulmonary tuberculosis) before the onset of the pleural sarcoma. Histologically, malignant fibrous histiocytoma was the most common tumor type (11 cases), followed by angiosarcoma (four). The age at diagnosis of the sarcoma ranged from 15 to 74 years (mean, 58); the male-to-female ratio was 3.3:1. In the eight cases of sarcoma associated with chronic pleural inflammatory disease, male preponderance was more marked (7:1). The commonest presenting symptom was chest pain. A mass could be detected by chest roentgenograms in 13 patients and computed tomographic scans in 15 patients. No patient had distant metastases at first admission. Thirteen patients were treated by surgery, chemotherapy, and/or radiation therapy. Thirteen of the 17 patients died 1 to 87 months (mean, 14.2) after therapy for STS. The actuarial 1-year survival rate was 38.5%. These findings suggest that long-standing pleural inflammation might be an etiologic factor for development of pleural STS. 
Hemidystonia due to a contralateral parieto-occipital metastasis: disappearance after removal of the mass lesion. A patient presented with left-sided hemidystonia. CT revealed a contralateral parieto-occipital mass lesion compressing the basal ganglia, which were spared by the mass. After microsurgical resection of the tumor, which was verified histologically as a metastasis of a large-cell anaplastic carcinoma, the movement disorder dissolved completely. 
Diagnosis and treatment of primary and recurrent retroperitoneal liposarcoma. We retrospectively reviewed 16 patients in whom primary retroperitoneal liposarcoma was diagnosed and treated. These patients were classified according to the first definitive surgical procedure employed: complete excision with or without radiotherapy; partial excision followed by radiotherapy; only biopsy of tumor followed by radiotherapy. Distribution of tumors according to histologic type was: well differentiated myxoid type, 10; poorly differentiated myxoid type, 4; and mixed type, 2. The main factor in determining resectability was extent and fixation of tumor to vital structures. Recurrent retroperitoneal disease developed in four patients all of whom underwent secondary intervention. We concluded from our experience that complete surgical excision is the most effective primary therapeutic approach for patients with primary and recurrent retroperitoneal liposarcoma. 
Anger and hostility in tension-type headache. A battery of standardized psychometric tests was administered to a group of 47 episodic tension-type headache sufferers and 47 headache-free controls. Compared to controls, headache subjects showed higher levels of anxiety, depression, and anger/hostility. The groups did not differ significantly on a measure of anger expressed toward persons or objects, but headache subjects showed significantly greater levels of suppressed anger. The results provide objective data that are in general agreement with predictions derived from psychosomatic theories about the interrelationships among anxiety,. 
Brain biopsy in tuberculoma: the risks and benefits. In developing countries, 5 to 8% of the space-occupying lesions of the central nervous system are tuberculomas. Diagnosis can be difficult in the absence of extracranial tuberculosis; computed tomography is suggestive only. To assess the value of brain biopsies in tuberculomas, the records of 15 patients aged 6 to 80 years were reviewed. Histological confirmation was obtained in 15 patients, and acid-fast bacilli were cultured from 12 patients. Intracranial hypertension was the principal sign in 11 patients; other neurological signs were related to the location of the tuberculoma. One patient had evidence of extracranial tuberculosis. Biopsy-related complications consisted of an epidural hematoma in 1 patient and hydrocephalus in another; both required additional surgery. One case of tuberculous meningitis was probably related to surgery and poor drug compliance. There was no postoperative mortality. Thirteen patients (2 were lost to follow-up) were cured after an average of 16 months of antituberculous therapy. It was concluded that the brain biopsy is useful in diagnosing tuberculoma but that there is some associated risk. 
Portal vein thrombosis complicating endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. Convincing further evidence. Portal vein thrombosis occurred in a patient who bled from gastric varices that developed after obliteration of esophageal varices by endoscopic sclerotherapy. This complication was recognized only at surgery when thrombectomy and endovenectomy preceded the successful placement of an end-to-side portocaval shunt. At histopathology, the presence of an amorphous, eosinophilic material staining negatively for fibrin and similar to sclerosant injected at sclerotherapy was observed within the clot. This latter finding, previously unreported, provides convincing evidence for the causal relationship of portal vein thrombosis to endoscopic sclerotherapy. 
Second-trimester maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels and the risk of subsequent fetal death BACKGROUND. The finding of an elevated level of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein during the second trimester of pregnancy may indicate that the fetus has died or is about to die. It is uncertain, however, whether the finding is associated with an increased risk of fetal death later in gestation independent of known causes of elevation, such as the presence of neural-tube defects or multiple gestation. METHODS. To address this question, we performed a case-control study of 612 women whose pregnancies ended in fetal death and 2501 women who gave birth to live infants, using reports from California vital statistics for 1987. All the women had signleton pregnancies and alpha-fetoprotein screening in the second trimester. RESULTS. Women with elevated levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein in the second trimester of pregnancy had an increased risk of fetal death, and the risk was increased until term. Women with the highest levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein--greater than or equal to 3.0 times the median value--had a very high risk of fetal death (odds ratio, 10.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 4.9 to 22.0) as compared with women who had normal levels of alpha-fetoprotein. Maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels that were 2.0 to 2.9 times the median were also associated with an elevated risk of fetal death (odds ratio, 2.4; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.7 to 3.4). Elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein were especially likely to be associated with fetal death in cases in which maternal hypertension or placental infarction was also present. CONCLUSIONs. An unexplained elevated level of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein in the second trimester of pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of subsequent fetal death, up to four to five months after alpha-fetoprotein screening. 
Bilateral coronary ostial stenosis associated with aortitis syndrome. A patient with aortitis syndrome showed severe stenosis of the bilateral coronary ostium. We discuss the coronary angiographic findings and the treatment. 
Diagnostic accuracy of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging. Myocardial thallium-201 (Tl-201) imaging performed in conjunction with exercise stress has enhanced the accuracy of detecting coronary artery disease among patients with chest pain. Sensitivity and specificity of qualitative visual Tl-201 scintigraphy for detection of coronary artery disease average 84% and 87%, respectively. Quantitative analysis of planar Tl-201 scintigrams has yielded sensitivity and specificity in the 90% range. Single photon emission computed tomographic imaging is associated with even higher sensitivity but with specificity in the 82-85% range. Perfusion defects representing ischemia can now be distinguished from scar by demonstration of delayed Tl-201 redistribution or enhanced uptake after reinjection of a second dose of Tl-201. Stenoses of the left circumflex coronary artery are less easily detected than lesions of the right and left anterior descending coronary arteries. False-positive Tl-201 perfusion defects may occur as a result of attenuation artifacts, most often caused by overlying breast tissue or by a high left hemidiaphragm. Patient motion during acquisition of single photon emission computed tomographic images results in artifactual defects on reconstruction. Abnormal Tl-201 uptake has been noted in patients with 1) left bundle branch block and normal coronary arteries, 2) hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and 3) progressive systemic sclerosis. 
Liver histology, blood biochemistry and RNA, DNA and subcellular protein composition of various skeletal muscles of rats with experimental cirrhosis: implications for alcoholic muscle disease. (1) Liver cirrhosis was induced in male rats by treatment with carbon tetrachloride and phenobarbitone for 130-142 days. Detailed histological examination showed all livers from rats treated with carbon tetrachloride had annular fibrosis, necrosis, loss of normal hepatic architecture and other features that were consistent with an established micronodular cirrhosis. (2) Plasma biochemical analysis showed a significant reduction in total protein concentration (13%), which was due entirely to a reduction in plasma albumin (29%). There were also large increases in the plasma activities of alkaline phosphatase (110%) and aspartate aminotransferase (159%), when compared to phenobarbitone-treated controls. Plasma cholesterol was also increased (67%), but other plasma analytes were not significantly altered. (3) The soleus (Type I), plantaris (Type II) and gastrocnemius (Types I and II) muscles were dissected and examined for possible differential effects. There were minor reductions in all three muscle weights, but these changes did not reach statistical significance. The protein, RNA and DNA concentrations, total muscle content and content relative to body weight in cirrhotic rats were also not significantly altered in any of the muscles. Cirrhosis did not cause any perturbations in derived parameters, i.e. amount of synthetic apparatus per cell, RNA/DNA ratio, apparent cell size, protein/DNA ratio and the capacity for protein synthesis or RNA/protein ratio. (4) The gastrocnemius was fractionated into soluble, stromal and myofibrillar proteins. The concentrations and contents of all three proteins were unaltered in cirrhotic animals, compared to controls. (5) It is concluded that in this experimental model of cirrhosis there were no effects on those skeletal muscle variables which are strikingly altered by chronic alcohol feeding. 
Perinatal vertical transmission of human papillomavirus and subsequent development of respiratory tract papillomatosis. This study prospectively examined the potential for human papillomavirus (HPV) to be transmitted vertically to newborns during delivery. Exfoliated cervical cells were extracted from 72 pregnant women during the third trimester and again during labor prior to delivery, and tested for the presence of HPV DNA. These results were compared with HPV DNA specimens from their newborns, who were sampled by exfoliated cells from the oral-pharyngeal cavity and vulva or tissue from the foreskin 24 to 72 hours after delivery. Among the mothers, 18.1% (13 of 72) typed HPV-positive by the ViraPap/ViraType DNA hybridization technique. Two neonates (2.8% or 2 of 72) tested positive from oral-pharyngeal specimens. This finding supports the hypothesis that respiratory tract papillomatosis may develop as a result of perinatal vertical transmission of HPV. Furthermore, this study suggests that neither cesarean section nor prepartum treatment of HPV lesions will always protect against neonatal acquisition of HPV. 
Postural compensation in children with congenital or early acquired bilateral vestibular loss. The relative roles of different receptor systems in compensating for vestibular loss were studied in 18 children (12 to 16 years of age) with congenital or early acquired bilateral vestibular loss (BVL) and impaired hearing, and compared to that in 33 normal children (9 to 16 years of age). Postural stability was studied with posturography evaluating the velocity of anterior-posterior body sway. With closed eyes the increase of sway velocity did not differ between the groups, either with or without simultaneous proprioceptive disturbances when the subjects were standing on a bare surface. Body sway velocities were found to increase more in subjects with a BVL than in normal children when subjects were standing on foam rubber. When proprioceptive cues were disturbed, body sway velocities increased in both groups, but significantly more in children with BVL when subjects stood on foam rubber. This occurred both with and without open eyes. 
Tissue plasminogen activator as an alternative to vena cava interruption in recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism. We have described a woman with pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) who had acute dyspnea, chest pain, and hypotension during adequate heparin therapy. Pulmonary angiography was consistent with recurrent PTE. The patient was given intravenous TPA and showed significant improvement. Repeat angiography showed resolution of the thrombus in the right main pulmonary artery. The patient did not require vena cava interruption. 
Discourse analyses with closed head injured adults: evidence for differing patterns of deficits. To better characterize the verbal impairments of higher level closed head injured (CHI) adults, we used narrative stories to longitudinally sample their discourse abilities. Stories were analyzed at the levels of intersentential cohesion and story grammar. Two differing patterns of deficits that emerged are described. In the first, a CHI subject demonstrated excessive verbalization characterized by poorly organized, but task-appropriate, content. In the second, a CHI subject demonstrated fair to good organization but little appropriate content. Prognostically, the presence of appropriate, although disorganized, content was an early indication that the subject was able to appreciate potential relationships of characters in the stimulus picture. The second pattern represented a more severe cognitive dysfunction. This subject's attempts at stories, although well organized, were merely elaborate descriptions of the picture. Discourse analyses appear to be well suited for the assessment of CHI adults. 
Lewy bodies are immunoreactive with antibodies raised to gelsolin related amyloid-Finnish type. Lewy bodies (LB) are intraneuronal, cytoplasmic inclusion bodies. They are invariably present in Parkinson's and diffuse LB diseases. Their composition by direct biochemical methods is unknown, although LBs are immunoreactive with a number of antibodies, including anti-ubiquitin and anti-neurofilament antibodies. Familial amyloidosis, Finnish type (FAF), is an autosomal-dominant form of systemic amyloidosis. The authors have isolated and partially sequenced the amyloid. The protein has significant sequence identity with gelsolin, an actin-modulating protein. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised to the FAF amyloid not only immunostain the amyloid but also LBs in the cortex and substantia nigra of Parkinson's and diffuse LB disease brains. Immunoreactivity is absorbed by the purified amyloid but is unaffected by ubiquitin. This provides a link between the LB and one of the human amyloidoses, FAF. 
Monitoring functional patency of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Duplex scanning and Doppler-derived blood pressure measurements were used to serially monitor lower limb hemodynamics in 73 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Ninety percutaneous transluminal angioplasty sites judged technically satisfactory by arteriography were evaluated. Significant hemodynamic improvement was seen in 81 (90%) of the 90 limbs, although both hemodynamic and clinical improvement were achieved in only 77 (86%) limbs. Duplex scanning within 1 week of successful angioplasty identified moderate (20% to 49% diameter reduction) or severe (greater than 50% diameter reduction) residual stenosis in 49 (63%) of 77 balloon-dilated arterial segments. The presence of a greater than 50% diameter reduction residual stenosis predicted further restenosis and late clinical failure (11% success rate at 1 year). When the degree of residual stenosis at the percutaneous transluminal angioplasty site was less than 50% diameter reduction by duplex scanning, the procedure was durable (80% success rate at 2 years), even in patients with critical ischemia, poor runoff, or diabetes mellitus. 
Vulvar vestibulitis syndrome: a clinico-pathological study. Twenty four patients with the vulvar vestibulitis syndrome formed the basis of this clinicopathological study. Entry dyspareunia was the constant presenting complaint and vestibular erythema with acute superficial tenderness the invariable clinical finding. In our series there was a marked predominance of Caucasians, patients were most often of social classes I and II and most frequently in the third decade. The results of laboratory investigation revealed that this syndrome has a diverse range of potential aetiologies including vulval infections, dysplasia and in one instance acute vasculitis. 
Ventilatory response to sustained hypoxia during exercise. The ventilatory stimulating effects of hypoxia occurring at carotid bodies are potentiated by exercise. However, hypoxia also has central ventilatory depressive effects; the potential interactions between this hypoxic depression and exercise have not been studied. We examined the ventilatory response to a 20 min period of isocapnic hypoxia (end-tidal O2, PETO2, of 50 mm Hg), preceded and followed by a 5 min period of isocapnic hyperoxia in seven normal adult males at rest and during moderate exercise (45-75 W). When hypoxia was introduced at rest (PETO2 = 42 mmHg), ventilation initially increased from 13.73 +/- 3.04 (mean +/- SD) to 23.69 +/- 5.48 1.min-1 and then slowly declined to 19.01 +/- 4.68 1 min-1. The increase was caused by increases in tidal volume and respiratory frequency, but the decline was solely in tidal volume. During a background of moderate exercise (PETCO2 = 46 mmHg), introduction of hypoxia caused ventilation to increase from 30.84 +/- 6.31 to 56.44 +/- 10.58 1.min-1. Ventilation subsequently did not decline; at the end of the hypoxic period, ventilation was 57.06 +/- 12.59 1.min-1. The increase was also associated with an increase in tidal volume and respiratory frequency, as seen as rest, but with much larger magnitudes. Despite the absence of ventilatory decline, there was still a decline in tidal volume, but it was compensated by an increase in respiratory frequency. We conclude that exercise potentiated the acute ventilatory response to hypoxia by modifying both tidal volume and respiratory frequency but that exercise abolished or greatly reduced hypoxic decline by increasing respiratory rate. 
Neurological and neuropathological sequelae of correction of chronic hyponatremia. The effect of correction of chronic hyponatremia at different rates was studied in 91 rats maintained at a plasma [Na+] of 112 +/- 1 mmol/liter for 19 +/- 1 days. Hyponatremia was corrected into normal ranges (140 to 145 mmol/liter) using three different methods. Rats corrected by water restriction achieved normal plasma [Na+] by 2.1 +/- 0.2 day and had a maximal (4 hr) correction rate of 1.0 +/- 0.1 mmol/liter.hr; rats corrected by water diuresis achieved normal plasma [Na+] by 1.6 +/- 0.1 day and had a maximal correction rate of 2.8 +/- 0.2 mmol/liter.hr; rats corrected by hypertonic saline infusion achieved normal plasma [Na+] by 5.4 +/- 0.3 hr and had a maximal correction rate of 5.7 +/- 0.4 mmol/liter.hr. A fourth control group was not corrected. No demyelinative lesions were found in the brains from the uncorrected rats, whereas the occurrence of such lesions in the brains of the corrected rats was highly correlated with the maximal rate of increase in plasma [Na+] (r = 0.68, P less than 0.001), and to a lesser degree with the magnitude of the increase in plasma [Na+] over the first 24 hours of correction (r = 0.41, P less than 0.001). Brain myelinolysis was first observed in animals whose maximal (4 hr) rate of correction exceeded 1.75 mmol/liter.hr, and the incidence of demyelination increased progressively in rats with more rapid rates of correction. Similarly, myelinolysis was first observed in rats whose magnitude of correction at 24 hours exceeded 16 mmol/liter and also increased in rats with larger 24 hour magnitudes of correction. 
Multielement analysis of kidney tissue with renal calculi. Tissue distribution and concentration gradients of macro- and micro-elements in the papilla, medulla, and cortex of human kidney with renal calculi were measured with spectrometer. An uninvolved portion of the hypernephroma kidney was used as control. Cadmium (Cd), cobalt (Co), and molybdenum (Mo) were least in amount in renal papilla as compared with the cortex and medulla in renal stone kidney. Overall there was less Mo in stone kidney tissue, and also significantly less when compared with that of control renal papilla. Considering the reported fact that Mo was found in high concentrations in urinary tract stones and our data that Mo was less in stone kidney, it is speculated that Mo may play some unexplained but significant role in certain stage(s) of the stone formation. 
A fatality after antipyrine administration. An 87-year-old woman died after the administration of an intravenous injection of antipyrine during the course of an investigation of the efficacy of oxerutins in venous ulceration. This is believed to be the first such fatality. 
Heterozygous protein C deficiency associated with multiple congenital hemangiomas--a case report. Congenital protein C deficiency is described as associated with recurrent thrombotic manifestations. The proband, a fourteen-year-old female, has a history of severe and frequent thrombotic disease, moreover, she presents congenital multiple hemangiomas. Family history was positive for protein C deficiency since the mother of the proposita is also affected and has manifested deep venous thrombophlebitis. Two additional relatives on the maternal side were not available for study but were reported to be symptomatic. None of the family members presented angiomatosis. This case report represents the first description of the association of protein C deficiency with multiple hemangiomas. 
Relationship between fetal biophysical activities and umbilical cord blood gas values. In a prospective study of 62 patients undergoing cesarean section before the onset of labor a fetal biophysical profile assessment was performed within 3 hours before the cesarean section. The presence or absence of the individual fetal biophysical activities (fetal heart rate reactivity, fetal breathing movements, fetal body movements, and fetal tone) were correlated with umbilical cord blood gas and acid-base measurements (artery and vein). Fetuses with nonreactive nonstress test results or the absence of breathing had significantly lower cord artery pH, PO2 bicarbonate, and base excess measurements but not a significantly different PCO2 level as compared with fetuses that had these activities present. Fetuses with the absence of movements or tone had lower pH, PO2 bicarbonate, and base excess levels and higher PCO2 levels as compared with fetuses with the presence of movements or tone, respectively. These blood gas and acid-base differences were observed in both umbilical cord artery and vein. Subsequent analysis of the blood gas and acid-base measurements of the fetuses with compromised biophysical activities revealed that there are different levels of acidemia, hypoxemia, and hypercapnia at which the individual biophysical activities are compromised. These data suggest that the first manifestations of fetal hypoxemia and acidemia are nonreactive nonstress test results and loss of fetal breathing; in advanced acidemia, hypoxemia, and hypercapnia fetal movements and fetal tone are compromised. 
Barrett's esophagus. A continuing conundrum. Barrett's esophagus, a condition in which the distal esophagus is lined by columnar epithelium, is almost always caused by gastroesophageal reflux and often occurs in conjunction with a sliding hiatal hernia. Patients are typically white men in their 50s who smoke and drink, and they present with complaints of regurgitation, heartburn, and/or dysphagia. Endoscopic biopsies are required to confirm the diagnosis. Complications, such as stricture, ulcer, dysplasia, and malignant degeneration, occur in many cases. Adenocarcinoma is the most serious complication. Medical treatment, including life-style changes as well as pharmacologic therapy, usually relieves symptoms and heals esophagitis, but when it fails, antireflux surgery is indicated. Patients without evidence of dysplasia should undergo endoscopy yearly; those with mild dysplasia require more frequent surveillance. If biopsies disclose severe dysplasia, esophagogastrectomy should be performed. 
Molecular epidemiology and the genetics of environmental cancer. Environmental, occupational, and recreational exposures to carcinogens contribute to cancer risk in humans. Cancer formation is a multistage process involving tumor initiation, promotion, conversion, and progression. Carcinogens can affect any of these stages through genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. The association of a suspected carcinogenic exposure and cancer risk can be studied in populations with classic epidemiologic techniques. However, these techniques are not applicable to the assessment of risk in individuals. Molecular epidemiology, in contrast, is a field that integrates molecular biology, in vitro and in vivo laboratory models, biochemistry, and epidemiology to infer individual cancer risk. Carcinogen-macromolecular adduct levels, and somatic cell mutations can be measured to determine the biologically effective dose of a carcinogen. Molecular epidemiology also explores host cancer susceptibilities, such as carcinogen metabolic activation, DNA repair, endogenous mutation rates, and inheritance of mutated tumor suppressor genes. Substantial interindividual variation for each of these biologic end points has been shown and, therefore, highlights the need for assessing cancer risk on an individual basis. Given the pace of the last decade, it is feasible that the next 10 years will allow molecular epidemiologists to develop a cancer-risk profile for an individual that includes assessment of a number of factors. This will help focus preventive strategies and strengthen quantitative risk assessments. 
A genetic study of idiopathic focal dystonias. A genetic study of idiopathic focal dystonias was undertaken by examining 153 first-degree relatives of 40 index patients with torticollis (14 patients), other focal cranial dystonias (16 patients), and writer's cramp (10 patients). Nine relatives with dystonia were identified in 6 families; 8 of these had symptoms such as clumsiness or tremor, but none were aware of any dystonia. A further 4 relatives, now decreased, were affected by history. Overall, 25% of index patients had relatives with dystonia. The results of segregation analysis suggested the presence of an autosomal dominant gene or genes with reduced penetrance as a common cause for focal dystonia. Segregation ratios were not significantly different from those ratios observed in generalized or segmental dystonia in the United Kingdom, and it is possible that a single autosomal dominant gene mutation is responsible for inherited dystonia in the majority of patients irrespective of distribution or severity. 
Laryngeal papillomas: histomorphometric evaluation of multiple and solitary lesions. Laryngeal papillomas from 20 patients (162 papillomas) were subjected to histomorphometric analysis: Based on clinical parameters, the papillomas were divided into juvenile multiple papillomas, adult multiple papillomas and adult solitary papillomas. The volume fractions of basal cells, koilocytes and nuclei as well as the mean nuclear volume were determined for each group. Significant differences between the 3 groups were not found and it is therefore concluded that they all represent the same basic lesion. 
Herniated cervical disk presenting as ischemic chest pain. Myocardial ischemia must be the first concern of every emergency physician in evaluating chest pain in the adult patient. Any suspicion of myocardial ischemia must be promptly evaluated and admitted. The American College of Emergency Physicians has recently published a standards document on the care of chest pain in the adult patient. The emergency physician must be familiar with this document. Once myocardial ischemia and other life-threatening causes are ruled out, one can consider that cervical disk disease may be the cause of chest pain. We present two cases of patients who presented to the emergency department with signs and symptoms consistent with cardiac ischemia. Both patients were found to have herniated cervical disks. Subsequent surgical repair completely relieved their symptoms. Evaluation of the literature shows that this entity was well described from 1950 to the 1960s. Most recent discussions do not mention disk herniation as even an infrequent cause of chest pain. If there is no life-threatening disease present, one should consider cervical disk disease. 
Nonhealing leg ulcers: a manifestation of basal cell carcinoma. Seven patients with basal cell carcinomas presenting as nonhealing ulcers are reported. The importance of considering malignancy and taking biopsy specimens of leg ulcers that fail to respond to treatment is emphasized. 
Hepatitis B virus-associated glomerulonephritis: electron microscopic studies in 98 children. Ninety-eight children with glomerulonephritis concomitant with hepatitis B surface HBs antigenemia were studied, the antigenemia being first documented at the clinical onset of glomerulopathy. Initial diagnoses, based on examination of the paraffin sections, varied, membrano-proliferative, mesangial, and membranous glomerulonephritis being most frequently considered. However, electron microscopic examination showed that 77 children had a uniform type of glomerulopathy, irrespective of the light microscopic appearance. This type was diagnosed as secondary membranous glomerulonephritis. The clinical course of this nephropathy was relatively indolent and short. Moreover, in many children, elimination of some hepatitis B virus (HBV) antigens from the circulation was also associated with clinical remission of glomerulopathy. The remaining 21 children with HBs antigenemia had various morphological forms of glomerulonephritis, these being similar to their idiopathic counterparts in both morphology and clinical course. The distinct clinical and morphological picture of secondary membranous glomerulonephritis with HBs antigenemia occurring in 77 of 98 children supports the hypothesis that HBsV-associated glomerulonephritis is of the secondary membranous type. Thus, we conclude that in children HBV antigenemia associated with glomerulonephritis other than secondary membranous is coincidental. 
Association of human leukocyte class II antigens with rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease in a Brazilian population. BACKGROUND. The incidence of rheumatic heart disease is great in Brazil. We analyzed the distribution of human leukocyte (HLA) antigens in a Brazilian population sample with rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease, with the aim of better understanding the mechanisms involved. METHODS AND RESULTS. HLA class I (A, B, and C) and class II (DR and DQ) antigen distribution was studied in 40 patients with diagnosis of rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease and compared with a control group of 617 healthy individuals for class I typing, from which 118 were drawn for class II typing. A strong correlation between rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease and HLA-DRw53 (72.9% in the disease group versus 39% in the control group: p = 0.00061, relative risk, 4.2; etiologic fraction, 0.43) was found. We also found an increase in the frequency of HLA-DR7 (57.5% in the disease group versus 26.3% in control group: p = 0.00715; relative risk, 3.8; etiologic fraction, 0.56). HLA class I and HLA-DQ typing did not point to any association with these diseases. CONCLUSIONS. HLA-DR7 and HLA-DRw53 are markers for susceptibility to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease in Brazil. These results could be explained by genetic differences resulting from racial or geographical diversity. 
Surgically treated cavernous angiomas of the brain stem: report of two cases and review of the literature. Two cases of surgically treated brain stem cavernous angiomas are presented. The previously reported cases are reviewed and the clinical features, radiographic appearance, and treatment of this condition are discussed. Symptomatic brain stem cavernous angiomas should be treated surgically and can be removed with good outcomes. 
Molecular diagnosis of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: polymerase chain reaction amplification of T-cell antigen receptor beta-chain gene rearrangements. The goal of our study was to molecularly diagnose CTCL, by cloning the T-cell antigen receptor beta chain (TCR-beta) gene rearrangement from the malignant T cells of a patient with Sezary syndrome, in order to generate a specific oligonucleotide probe capable of detecting CTCL cells through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Total RNA isolated from peripheral blood lymphocytes was reverse transcribed and resultant first strand cDNA was PCR amplified utilizing a concensus primer to the TCR-beta variable region (V beta) and a 3' primer to the TCR-beta constant region (C beta). PCR reaction products were subcloned into a plasmid vector and sequenced. Sequence analysis revealed that the patient's in-frame TCR-beta gene rearrangement utilized V beta 6.4, D beta 1.1, J beta 2.2, and C beta 2.1 gene segments. Oligo-primers to V beta 6.4 and J beta 2.2 were utilized to PCR amplify genomic DNA taken from the patient's blood and involved skin. Screening the amplified DNA with an oligo-probe specific for the patient's V-D-J junctional sequences resulted in the detection of the patient-specific sequences. No sequences were detected from DNA from other malignant or benign infiltrates. Thus, we have defined a "molecular fingerprint" specific for a patient's malignant T-cells and can molecularly diagnose CTCL through PCR amplification. 
Functional role of the epicardium in postinfarction ventricular tachycardia. Observations derived from computerized epicardial activation mapping, entrainment, and epicardial laser photoablation BACKGROUND. Conventionally, monomorphic sustained ventricular tachycardia in patients with remote myocardial infarction is believed to originate from the subendocardium. In a previous study, we demonstrated that electrical activation patterns during ventricular tachycardia occasionally suggest a subepicardial rather than subendocardial reentry. METHODS AND RESULTS. This study prospectively evaluated the functional role of the epicardium in postinfarction ventricular tachycardia with complex intraoperative techniques including computerized electrical activation mapping, entrainment, observation of changes in activation pattern during successful epicardial laser photoblation, and histological study. Five of 10 consecutive patients undergoing intraoperative computerized activation mapping had 10 ventricular tachycardia morphologies displaying epicardial diastolic activation These 10 "epicardial" ventricular tachycardias revealed the following global activation patterns: monoregional spread (two), figure-eight activation (five), and circular macroreentry (three). Entrainment of ventricular tachycardia using epicardial stimulation was successfully performed from an area of slow diastolic conduction in four tachycardia morphologies. During entrainment, global activation remained undisturbed with recordings showing a long stimulus to QRS interval, unchanged QRS morphology, and pacing capture of all components of the reentry circuit. Neodymium:yttrium aluminum garnet laser photocoagulation was delivered during ventricular tachycardia to epicardial sites of presumed reentry. Epicardial photoablation terminated five of five figure-eight tachycardias, two of three circular macroreentry tachycardias but not the monoregional tachycardias. Electrophysiological recordings during epicardial laser photocoagulation demonstrated progressive prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length and apparent interruption of the presumed reentrant circuit. Histological evaluation of the reentrant region (three patients) showed a rim of surviving myocardium under the epicardial surface. CONCLUSIONS. This study suggests that 1) chronic postinfarction ventricular tachycardia may result from subepicardial macroreentry, 2) slow conduction within the reentry circuit can be localized by computerized mapping and epicardial entrainment, and 3) ventricular tachycardia interruption by laser photocoagulation results from conduction delay and block within critical elements of the reentrant pathway. Viable subepicardial muscle fibers may constitute the underlying pathology. 
Interleukin-6 in serum of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis. Polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis are diseases which are characterized by a brisk acute phase response. Cytokines, principally interleukin-1 and interleukin-6, are thought to mediate the release of acute phase proteins from hepatocytes. Employing a sensitive bioassay based on the hybridoma growth factor properties of interleukin-6, we investigated its levels in sequential sera obtained from 15 initially untreated patients with PMR/GCA. We found that interleukin-6 activity was significantly elevated in all untreated patients. Although there was a significant decline in its levels after successful steroid therapy, seven patients continued to have raised serum levels of interleukin-6 for up to 6 months after initiation of treatment. Activated endothelial cells are a potent source of interleukin-6 and its persistence in the circulation may be taken as evidence of continuing disease activity. What is not explicable is the normalization of the acute phase response soon after the commencement of steroid therapy when circulating levels of interleukin-6 are still high. This suggests that steroids may be having additional effects on hepatocyte function. 
Effect of nasal packing on eustachian tube function. Sixty-three patients undergoing surgery to the nasal septum followed by bilateral packing had pre- and post-operative tympanometry in order to determine the effect on eustachian tube function. Fifty-five of the 126 ears tested (46 per cent) developed a reduction in middle ear pressure of at least 50 daPa; 76 per cent became normal within 24 hours of removing the nasal packs. All ears were asymptomatic and no patient had evidence of middle ear effusion. Nasal packing following septal surgery is a frequent cause of short-lasting eustachian tube dysfunction but rarely severe enough to cause symptoms or middle ear effusion. Tubal dysfunction is most likely due to a combination of surgical oedema and a direct effect of the nasal packing. 
Clinical evaluation of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in Jordan. Thirty-three cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma are reported. This is the first report of this condition from Jordan. Age, sex, early presentation and metastases are discussed. Bimodal distribution of age showed two peaks between 16-20 and 41-45 years. The disease was more common in males. Lymph node enlargement was the most common presentation, and bone metastases were the most frequent. 
Fatal varicella in an adult: case report and review of the gastrointestinal complications of chickenpox. An unusual and fatal case of primary varicella in an adult is presented. Involvement of the small intestine first manifested as abdominal pain and later progressed to gastrointestinal bleeding with subsequent dissemination of the infection. Although it has previously been speculated that gastrointestinal bleeding can result from infection with the varicella-zoster virus, the data from this case include histologic and cultural evidence that supports the clinical observations. The literature has been reviewed, and the management of this patient has been critically evaluated. 
Results from 7-mm bilateral recessions of the medial rectus muscles for congenital esotropia. We reviewed the surgical records of 77 patients who had undergone 7-mm bilateral medial rectus recessions for large-angle congenital esotropia. The mean age of onset of esotropia in these patients was 3.5 months, and the mean age at the time of surgery was 12.9 months. The mean preoperative deviation was 69 delta of esotropia. This procedure resulted in satisfactory horizontal alignment in 47 patients (61%) at their latest follow-up examination (mean, 27 months; range, 6 months to 6 years). The esotropia was undercorrected in 21 patients (27%) and overcorrected in nine (12%). Amblyopia was noted in 30%, oblique muscle dysfunction in 44%, and dissociated vertical deviation in 36% of the patients. Regression analysis of multiple variables showed alignment at 6 weeks to be the only predictor of the final outcome (R = .83). Extramacular fusion was achieved in 10 of 11 patients for whom reliable sensory data were available. The mean age at surgery of these patients was 9.7 months. Seven-millimeter bilateral medial rectus recessions are an effective alternative to three- and four-muscle procedures in the initial treatment of large-angle congenital esotropia during infancy. 
Simultanagnosia. To see but not two see. Simultanagnosia is a disorder of visual perception characterized by the inability to interpret complex visual arrays despite preserved recognition of single objects. We report a series of investigations on a simultanagnosic patient which attempt to establish the nature of this visual processing disturbance. The patient performed normally on a feature detection task but was impaired on a test of attention-requiring visual search in which she was asked to distinguish between stimuli containing different numbers of targets. She was not impaired on a visual-spatial orienting task. She identified single briefly presented words and objects as rapidly and reliably as controls suggesting that access to stored structural descriptions was not impaired. With brief, simultaneous presentation of 2 words or drawings, she identified both stimuli significantly more frequently when the stimuli were semantically related than when they were unrelated. On the basis of these and other data, we suggest that the patient's simultanagnosia is attributable to an impairment in the process by which activated structural descriptions are linked to information coding the location of the object. 
Chemical and postural influence on scalene and diaphragmatic activation in humans. The electromyographic activity of the diaphragm (EMGdi) and scalene muscle (EMGsc) was studied in the supine and upright positions, respectively, during hyperoxic progressive hypercapnic rebreathing (HCVR) in five healthy males. End-expiratory esophageal pressure (EEPes) was quantified on a breath-to-breath basis as a reflection of altered end-expiratory lung volume. There was no significant difference in the slopes of EMGdi, expressed as a percentage of maximum at total lung capacity vs. minute volume of ventilation (VI), between the supine and upright positions [0.79 +/- 0.05 (SE) vs. 0.92 +/- 0.17, respectively]. In contrast, the slope of the regression line relating EMGsc to VI was steeper in the upright than in the supine position (0.69 +/- 0.05 vs. 0.35 +/- 0.04, respectively; P less than 0.005). Positive EEPes at comparable VI at the ends of HCVRs were of greater magnitude upright than supine (3.27 +/- 0.68 vs. 4.35 +/- 0.60 cmH2O, respectively, P less than 0.001). We conclude that altering posture has a greater effect on scalene and expiratory muscle activity than on diaphragmatic activity during hypercapnic stimulation. 
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli and life threatening chronic diarrhoea. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) infection is not generally thought to cause severe diarrhoea after the neonatal period. Patients admitted to Queen Elizabeth Hospital for Children over the three years (1984-7) with diarrhoea and EPEC infection were reviewed. Clinical details, features of small intestinal mucosa, and treatment were recorded in those who developed chronic diarrhoea with failure to thrive. Twenty six children with EPEC required hospital admission for diarrhoea and six of these (23%) developed chronic diarrhoea. In contrast only two (5%) of 42 with other serogroups of E coli (p less than 0.01) and 28 (4%) of 764 children without EPEC admitted with acute diarrhoea developed chronic symptoms (p less than 0.01). EPEC serogroups detected in the stool of the six children with chronic diarrhoea were 0128 in three, 0114 in two, and 0119 in one. The patients' clinical characteristics were: previous good health, no significant immunodeficiency, age 4-10 months, foreign travel (three of six), severe life threatening secretory diarrhoea from 0.5 to 1.5 1 per day (four of six), small intestinal enteropathy (five of six) three of whom showed mucosal adherent, non-invasive E coli of the same serotype as that in the stool, in association with microvillous loss and pedestal formation. All were treated with hypoallergenic feeds, two with parenteral nutrition, and three with parenteral antibiotics. All eventually recovered. EPEC infection is a common treatable cause of life threatening chronic diarrhoea in infancy. 
Malignant osteopetrosis: hypercalcaemia after bone marrow transplantation. A 3 year old girl presented with malignant osteopetrosis, which was treated by allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Successful engraftment was complicated by prolonged hypercalcaemia, which was controlled by a combination of a bisphosphonate, phosphate infusions, vigorous resalination, and salmon calcitonin. She was alive and well 16 months after the transplant. 
Repeat thymectomy in chronic refractory myasthenia gravis. Encouraged by recent results with "extended" thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis, we carried out repeat thymectomy in six patients with chronic, refractory disease who did not initially have extended thymectomy. All were completely disabled with longstanding myasthenia. Initial thymectomy (four transsternal, one transcervical, and one substernal) was carried out at a mean of 8.9 years previously (range, 5 to 18). There was no residual thymus observed with CT, but at repeat thymectomy, residual thymic tissue was present in five of six patients. Five patients significantly improved and four returned to full-time work. Mean prednisone dose declined from 51 mg to 18 mg/d, and mean pyridostigmine dose fell from 1,290 mg to 415 mg/d. No patient to date has had a complete remission. These results suggest that repeat thymectomy may benefit some patients with chronic disabling myasthenia gravis, especially when it is uncertain from a review of the operative report whether all thymic tissue was removed at the initial thymectomy. 
In vitro studies of uterine electrosurgery. This study investigated electrosurgical techniques in vitro with emphasis on the tissue effects and heat transfer through full-thickness blocks of excised uterine tissue. Uterine morphometry was also examined. The 7-mm cutting resection loop was associated with a surrounding zone of thermal necrosis between 1.07-1.40 mm. There was no variation in this zone when power was altered, but a statistically significant increase was demonstrated with duration of exposure. A depth of destruction of 3.24-3.49 mm was possible with the desiccating coagulation technique, but fulguration achieved a depth of only 1.70-1.78 mm. A greater tissue effect was demonstrated as time intervals were increased. There was a fall-off in the measured rise in temperature with distance; at 4 mm from the active electrode, a mean rise of 4.5C was noted, whereas at 12 mm the mean temperature rise was 3.9C. There was a statistically significant increase in the mean temperature as power output in the cutting mode was increased. At 180 W, the mean rise was 2.0C but by 260 W, it was 3.9C. When the time interval was increased and the power held constant (220 W), a mean rise of 2.5C was recorded at 1 second, compared with 4.6C at 5 seconds, achieving statistical significance. Power increments in the coagulating mode did not alter the temperature profile, but increasing duration of exposure was associated with a significant rise in mean temperature (from 0.8 to 4.6C). A stepwise increase in the baseline temperature was noted with repetitive insults. The mean myometrial thickness of the anterior and posterior walls measured 1.8 and 1.9 cm, respectively. 
Thrombocytosis in adults: analysis of 777 patients. A total of 777 patients with thrombocytosis, defined as a platelet count of greater than 500 x 10(9)l-1, seen in a University hospital over a 1-year period, were studied prospectively for aetiology. The most frequent causes of thrombocytosis were infection (21.9%), rebound thrombocytosis (19.4%), tissue damage (17.9%), chronic inflammatory disorders (13.1%) and malignancy (5.9%). Thrombocytosis associated with multiple causative factors, occurring simultaneously, was seen in 6.1% of cases. Thrombocytosis of greater than or equal to 1 million x 10(9)l-1 was found most frequently in patients with multiple aetiological factors occurring at the same time, in myeloproliferative disorders, or in postsplenectomy patients. 
Identification of colon cancer-predisposed individuals: a cytogenetic analysis. Peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures from 23 individuals with polyps and 10 age-matched controls were cytogenetically studied. Of 23 individuals with polyps, 13 were males and 10 females. The age distribution of these patients was between 22 and 84 yr, with a medium age of 49.6 yr. Chromosome 5 was involved in structural rearrangements in 10 of the 18 patients with adenomatous polyps (55.5%). All those who showed involvement of chromosome 5 alterations had either adenomatous polyps or Gardner's syndrome, and two had colon adenocarcinoma. Of the remainder who did not show involvement of chromosome 5, eight had adenomatous polyps and five had hyerplastic polyps (non-neoplastic). Of the 10 control samples, only one showed alteration of chromosome 5. Of the 10 adenomatous polyp subjects that showed chromosome 5 defects, two had translocations of chromosome 5 and the short arm of 17. Chromosome 5 was broken 13 times (5 times in the q arm and 8 times in the p arm). Based on our present cytogenetic data, we tentatively conclude that lymphocyte metaphases may be used to identify colon cancer-predisposed individuals. 
Clam enterocystoplasty in general urological practice. A series of 45 patients (31 female) underwent clam enterocystoplasty for urgency and incontinence. The majority had detrusor instability. Prolonged conservative treatment had failed in all cases. Improvement occurred in 71% and those younger than 30 years had better overall results; 29% remained incontinent, with 9% requiring a urinary diversion. Many patients did not achieve maximum benefit until 9 months post-operatively. Surgery had no statistically significant effect on any urodynamic parameter and post-operative complications were common. The operation was performed in either the coronal (19) or the sagittal plane (26); this did not influence results. In general, surgery was found to be technically simpler in the sagittal group and it is recommended that this becomes the standard procedure. We feel that this operation involves major surgery and should only be offered with reluctance. 
A placebo-controlled trial of continuous intravenous diltiazem infusion for 24-hour heart rate control during atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter: a multicenter study. The safety and efficacy of a 10- to 15-mg/h continuous infusion of intravenous diltiazem were evaluated in 47 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter who first responded to 20 mg or 20 mg followed by one or more 25-mg bolus doses of open label intravenous diltiazem. Of the 47 patients, 44 responded to the bolus injection and were randomized under double-blind conditions to receive either a continuous infusion of intravenous diltiazem (10 to 15 mg/h) (23 patients) or placebo (21 patients) for up to 24 h. Seventeen (74%) of the 23 patients receiving diltiazem infusion and none of the 21 with placebo infusion maintained a therapeutic response for 24 h (p less than 0.001). Over 24 h, patients receiving diltiazem infusion lost response significantly more slowly than did those receiving placebo infusion (p less than 0.001). Nonresponders to the double-blind infusion were given an additional bolus injection of open label intravenous diltiazem and administered an open label 24-h intravenous diltiazem infusion. The overall proportion of patients maintaining a response to a 24-h infusion of intravenous diltiazem under double-blind or open label conditions combined was 83% (34 of 41). Efficacy of the 24-h infusion of intravenous diltiazem was similar in elderly versus young patients, those who did versus those who did not receive digoxin and those weighing less than 84 versus greater than or equal to 84 kg. However, intravenous diltiazem appeared to be more effective in atrial fibrillation than in atrial flutter. No significant untoward effects were noted. 
The impact of cigarette smoking on headache activity in headache patients. The present study was designed to explore the relationship between cigarette smoking and headache activity in a sample of patients presenting for treatment. Subjects completed various self-report measures and monitored headache activity four times per day over a 4-week period. Analyses revealed that smokers experienced greater weekly peak headache intensity, and reported higher levels of depression and general physical symptoms. Among smokers, nicotine content of the preferred brand was associated with mean headache index and weekly headache-free days, as well as depression and anxiety scores. Daily smoking rate and pack-year history were related to level of general physical symptoms only. Thus, both smoking status and the nicotine content of the preferred cigarette appear to adversely impact headache activity. Further, smokers who are more anxious or depressed may increase their headache activity via their preference for higher nicotine-content cigarettes. These results are discussed in the context of possible mechanisms underlying these effects, and implications for the clinical management of headache suffers who smoke. 
Case report: hepatic hydrothorax without ascites. Pleural effusion due to hepatic cirrhosis and ascites is well known. We describe three patients with right-sided hepatic hydrothorax in the absence of ascites. The formation of pleural fluid in these patients is probably a result of fluid movement from peritoneal to pleural space across diaphragmatic defects before ascites can form. The differential diagnosis of a right-sided transudative pleural effusion in a patient with chronic liver disease with or without ascites includes congestive left ventricular failure and nephrotic syndrome. These diseases are usually ruled out with standard clinical tests. Patients with hepatic hydrothorax should be treated with fluid restriction and diuretics. Patients with severe symptoms due to refractory hepatic hydrothorax might benefit from pleural sclerosis and surgical closure of diaphragmatic defects. 
The role of chronic viral hepatitis in hepatocellular carcinoma in the United States. Although hepatocellular carcinoma is a relatively uncommon tumor in the United States, it is quite common in sub-Saharan Africa and the Far East, where most cases are associated with infection with the hepatitis B virus. We have studied 99 American patients with hepatocellular carcinoma for evidence of hepatitis B or hepatitis C viral infection and compared these findings to those in a group of matched controls with other cancers. The two groups differed in proportion, with hepatitis B surface antigen in serum being significantly higher in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (7% vs. 0%, p = 0.009). Antibody to hepatitis C virus was also found more frequently in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (13% vs. 2%, p = 0.002). The relative risk for hepatocellular carcinoma in hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients was calculated to be 17.3 and for antibody to hepatitis C virus to be 7.3. The attributable fraction of cases related to the hepatitis B surface antigen carrier state was 6.7% and for patients infected with the hepatitis C virus was 11.4%. Approximately three quarters of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma did not have evidence of either hepatitis C or hepatitis B virus infection. These findings provide strong evidence that hepatitis C virus infection is associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma, and in the United States may even play a more important role than the hepatitis B virus. 
Selective amplification of periportal transitional cells precedes formation of hepatocellular carcinoma in SV40 large tag transgenic mice. In a major urinary protein (MUP)-promoter/simian virus 40 (SV40)Tag transgenic mouse line (MT-D2) the liver-directed, androgen-regulated transgene expression leads to synchronized pathology resulting in a stepwise progression to multiple hepatocellular carcinomas. SV40Tag-activated replication gives rise to two different preneoplastic alterations in hepatocytes, which are characterized in detail: 1) dysplasia and finally cell death in the original hepatocyte population and 2) amplification of periportal transitional hepatocytes leading to multifocal hyperplasia and hepatocellular carcinoma. Multifocal hyperplasia, most probably the equivalent of SV40Tag-immortalization, grows confluent and leads to hepatomegaly. SV40Tag-independent, secondary events are necessary for the tumor development from confluent hyperplasia. This allows further investigation of the steps involved in malignant transformation and progression during hepatocarcinogenesis in vivo. 
Abnormal responses to orthostatic testing in children and adolescents with recurrent unexplained syncope. Syncope in the pediatric age group is a frequent event. Most often the cause is readily apparent--i.e., orthostatic hypotension or a vasovagal event. However, there are a large number of children with frequent recurrent unexplained syncope. Neither history, physical examination, nor standard testing reveals a cause. One hundred four consecutive patients were evaluated by orthostatic testing after standard methods found no cause for the recurrent syncope. Forty-seven (44%) of these 104 patients had syncope produced by orthostatic testing. Twenty-six of the 47 (55%) became syncopal within 5 minutes of testing initiation and 21 of the 47 (45%) after 5 to 11 minutes of testing. These patients had an average decrease of 81.5 mm Hg in blood pressure and a 25 beat/min decrease in heart rate. Of 12 control subjects, none lost consciousness with standing times as long as 14 minutes. Pacing was ineffective in preventing syncope, as two patients with a previously implanted normally functioning pacemaker had recurrent syncope clinically. Syncope was also induced by orthostatic testing, with the pacemaker showing a normal response with pacing as the patient became bradycardic. The syncopal event produced by orthostatic testing occurred with a downward blood pressure trend and a narrowing of the pulse pressure without a significant increase in heart rate. This was followed by a sudden drop in blood pressure and then by bradycardia. There is a group of children and adolescents with recurrent unexplained syncope due to abnormal orthostatic control mechanisms. Orthostatic testing appears helpful in identifying these patients. 
A prospective, randomized trial comparing combination half-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator and streptokinase with full-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator. Kentucky Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial (KAMIT) Group. BACKGROUND. The potential benefits of combination thrombolytic agents in the treatment of myocardial infarction remain uncertain. In a small pilot study, we demonstrated that combining half-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) with streptokinase (SK) achieved a high rate of infarct vessel patency and a low rate of reocclusion at half the cost of full-dose t-PA. METHODS AND RESULTS. We designed a prospective trial in which 216 patients were randomized within 6 hours of myocardial infarction to receive either the combination of half-dose (50 mg) t-PA with streptokinase (1.5 MU) during 1 hour or to the conventional dose of t-PA (100 mg) during 3 hours. Acute patency was determined by angiography at 90 minutes, and angioplasty was reserved for failed thrombolysis. Heparin and aspirin regimens were maintained until follow-up catheterization at day 7. Acute patency was significantly greater after t-PA/SK (79%) than with t-PA alone (64%, p less than 0.05). After angioplasty for failed thrombolysis, acute patency increased to 96% in both groups. Marked depletion of serum fibrinogen levels occurred after t-PA/SK compared with t-PA alone at 4 hours (37 +/- 36 versus 199 +/- 66 mg/dl, p less than 0.0001) and persisted 24 hours after therapy (153 +/- 66 versus 252 +/- 75 mg/dl, p less than 0.0001). Reocclusion (3% versus 10%, p = 0.06), reinfarction (0% versus 4%, p less than 0.05), and need for emergency bypass surgery (1% versus 6%, p = 0.05) tended to be less in the t-PA/SK group. Greater myocardial salvage was apparent in the t-PA/SK group as assessed by infarct zone function at day 7 (-1.9 SD/chord versus -2.3 SD/chord after t-PA alone, p less than 0.05). In-hospital mortality (6% versus 4%) and serious bleeding (12% versus 11%) were similar between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS. These results suggest that a less expensive regimen of half-dose t-PA with SK yields superior 90-minute patency and left ventricular function and a trend toward reduced reocclusion compared with the conventional dose of t-PA. 
Pulmonary and urinary clearance of atrial natriuretic factor in acute congestive heart failure in dogs. Atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) is a peptide hormone of cardiac origin elevated in acute congestive heart failure (CHF), which is degraded by the enzyme neutral endopeptidase 24.11 (NEP). This study was designed to investigate the pulmonary and urinary clearance of ANF before and after the initiation of acute experimental CHF in dogs, and to assess the contribution of enzymatic degradation to these clearances in CHF. This study demonstrated a significant clearance of plasma ANF across the pulmonary circulation at baseline, and a tendency for pulmonary clearance to decrease in CHF (1115 +/- 268 to 498 +/- 173 ml/min, NS). The pulmonary extraction of ANF present at baseline was not altered with acute CHF (36.0 +/- 7.8 to 34.9 +/- 12.1%, NS). NEP inhibition (NEPI) abolished both the clearance and extraction of plasma ANF across the lung in CHF. Similarly, significant urinary clearance of ANF was present at baseline, and in acute CHF the urinary clearance of ANF decreased (0.14 +/- 0.02 to 0.02 +/- 0.01 ml/min, P less than 0.05). NEPI prevented the decrease in the urinary clearance of ANF, and enhanced the renal response to endogenous ANF, independent of further increases in plasma ANF during CHF. This study supports an important role for NEP in the pulmonary and urinary metabolism of endogenous ANF during acute CHF. 
Acetazolamide or dexamethasone use versus placebo to prevent acute mountain sickness on Mount Rainier. Eighteen climbers actively ascended Mount Rainier (elevation 4,392 m) twice during a randomized, double-blind, concurrent, placebo-controlled, crossover trial comparing the use of acetazolamide, 250 mg, dexamethasone, 4 mg, and placebo every 8 hours as prophylaxis for acute mountain sickness. Each subject was randomly assigned to receive placebo during one ascent and one of the active medications during the other ascent. Assessment of acute mountain sickness was performed using the Environmental Symptoms Questionnaire and a clinical interview. At the summit or high point attained above base camp, the use of dexamethasone significantly reduced the incidence of acute mountain sickness and the severity of symptoms. Cerebral and respiratory symptom severity scores for subjects receiving dexamethasone (0.26 +/- 0.16 and 0.20 +/- 0.19, respectively) were significantly lower than similar scores for both acetazolamide (0.80 +/- 0.80 and 1.20 +/- 1.05; P = 0.25) and placebo (1.11 +/- 1.02 and 1.45 +/- 1.27; P = .025). Neither the use of dexamethasone nor that of acetazolamide measurably affected other physical or mental aspects. Compared with placebo, dexamethasone appears to be effective for prophylaxis of symptoms associated with acute mountain sickness accompanying rapid ascent. The precise role of dexamethasone for the prophylaxis of acute mountain sickness is not known, but it can be considered for persons without contraindications who are intolerant of acetazolamide, for whom acetazolamide is ineffective, or who must make forced, rapid ascent to high altitude for a short period of time with a guaranteed retreat route. 
New autonomic and sensory neuropathy with loss of adrenergic sympathetic function and sensory neuropeptides. A 30-year-old woman with longstanding dizziness was found to have a severe postural fall in blood pressure and a reduced skin axon-reflex flare response. Autonomic tests indicated selective impairment of adrenergic sympathetic function. Plasma noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, and dopamine beta hydroxylase were undetectable. Skin biopsy specimens showed loss of tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y (markers of adrenergic sympathetic fibres) and of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (sensory neuropeptides). A sural nerve biopsy specimen showed severe depletion of unmyelinated fibres. The constellation of losses were compatible with nerve growth factor (NGF) deprivation, which was confirmed on assay. This new syndrome may be explained by loss of trophic action of NGF. 
Cogan's syndrome complicated by lacunar brain infarcts. Cogan's syndrome, nonsyphilitic interstitial keratitis with vestibuloauditory dysfunction, is an uncommon disease of young adults, probably a manifestation of vasculitis. A 32 year old woman with this syndrome developed a thalamic syndrome with amnesia and dysphasia due to lacunar infarcts. 
Williams syndrome: masseter spasm during anaesthesia. A 4-year-old boy with Williams syndrome developed masseter spasm after halothane and suxamethonium. He did not develop malignant hyperthermia; the surgery was accomplished with a nontriggering anaesthetic and no further problems. 
Behavioral state-specific changes in human hippocampal theta activity. Although there has been extensive examination of the behavioral and physiologic correlates of hippocampal theta activity in animals, the human literature consists of a single case study. We investigated the differential effects of four behavioral states on human hippocampal theta activity in 16 epilepsy surgery patients. Behavioral conditions included resting eyes closed (RC), resting eyes open (RO), eyes open with auditory word activation (AW), and eyes open with visuospatial activation (VS). Hippocampal theta activity decreased during both RO and VS compared to both RC and AW. There were reciprocal changes in delta activity. Comparisons of RO to VS and of RC to AW were nonsignificant. The results demonstrate state-specific changes in human hippocampal theta and are consistent with the animal literature that relates hippocampal theta to sensorimotor integration and forebrain volitional mechanisms. 
Colorectal cancer in ulcerative colitis. Influence of anatomical extent and age at onset on colitis-cancer interval. We have examined the age at onset of both ulcerative colitis and colitis-associated colorectal cancer in 100 patients seen at Mount Sinai Hospital between 1959 and 1988. There were 85 patients with extensive colitis and 15 with left sided colitis. There was a strong direct correlation between the age at onset of ulcerative colitis and age at diagnosis of cancer (p less than 0.0001); this correlation was found both in patients with extensive colitis (p less than 0.0001) and in those with left sided colitis (p less than 0.005). Patients with left sided colitis developed both their colitis and their cancers about a decade later than did those with extensive disease, but the mean duration of colitis before diagnosis of cancer was virtually the same (about 21 years) in both groups, irrespective of the age at onset of disease. 
Laser balloon angioplasty: clinical, angiographic and histologic results. Laser balloon angioplasty combines conventional coronary angioplasty with laser energy to transiently heat vascular tissue. Laser balloon angioplasty, was performed in 21 patients (aged 56 +/- 13 years), including 10 patients treated urgently after acute failure of conventional angioplasty and 11 patients treated with elective laser balloon angioplasty. Immediately after conventional angioplasty, laser doses (1 to 10 doses of 205 to 380 J each) were delivered during inflation of the laser balloon to a pressure of 4 atm. Seven (70%) of 10 patients with acute failure of conventional angioplasty were successfully treated with laser balloon angioplasty, but 3 (30%) were unsuccessfully treated with the laser procedure and required emergency coronary artery bypass surgery. In all three failures, the 3 mm laser balloon angioplasty catheter was not the optimal size for the vessel. In the 11 patients treated with elective laser balloon angioplasty (reference diameter 2.94 +/- 0.22 mm), the minimal luminal diameter increased from 0.45 +/- 0.25 to 1.85 +/- 0.46 mm after conventional angioplasty and to 2.44 +/- 0.29 mm after laser balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001). This corresponded to a decrease in diameter stenosis from 84 +/- 9% before to 35 +/- 16% after conventional angioplasty and to 15 +/- 10% after laser balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001). There were no instances of myocardial infarction, emergency coronary artery bypass surgery or death and no acute complications related to delivery of laser energy in this group. Follow-up coronary angiography was performed 5.5 +/- 1.1 months after laser balloon angioplasty in 18 patients discharged from the hospital after a successful procedure. Ten patients (56%) had angiographic restenosis, defined as recurrent diameter stenosis greater than 50%. Six patients were subsequently treated by directional coronary atherectomy, which revealed intimal proliferation indistinguishable from that in patients with restenosis after conventional angioplasty. In conclusion, laser balloon angioplasty may be effective in sealing severe coronary dissections and reversing abrupt closure associated with failed conventional angioplasty. After uncomplicated conventional angioplasty, laser balloon angioplasty improves immediate luminal dimensions, but restenosis appears to be mediated by intimal hyperplasia, similar to that seen after conventional angioplasty. 
Coronary artery disease in blacks: past perspectives and current overview. It is difficult to draw strong conclusions from the available data. One must simply accept the fact that vital statistics show that cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death among black Americans. Health care providers, policymakers, and funding agencies should use this information to develop preventive and therapeutic strategies to conquer this dreadful disease. 
Clinicopathologic features and prognostic significance of duodenal invasion in patients with distal gastric carcinoma. Clinicopathologic features and prognostic significance of duodenal invasion were studied in a retrospective study on 593 patients who underwent gastrectomy for adenocarcinoma in the antrum. The patients were grouped into three, according to the histologic extent of duodenal invasion: Group A (80 patients), obvious invasion beyond the pyloric ring; Group B (61 patients), invasion up to the pyloric ring; and Group C (452 patients), no evidence of duodenal invasion. Five-year survival rates in Groups A, B, and C were 7.9%, 31.6%, and 57.6%, respectively (P less than 0.001). Cox's regression analysis showed that duodenal invasion is an independent prognostic factor in cases of a gastric antrum carcinoma. Gastric cancer with duodenal invasion (Groups A and B) most often was infiltrative and the incidence of serosal invasion, lymphatic and vascular invasion, and lymph node metastasis was high. Duodenal invasion was direct through submucosal or subserosal layers or through submucosal lymphatics. 
Observations on the Kveim reaction using an animal model of granulomatous bowel disease. Striking differences were observed between the visceral and cutaneous responses after tests with validated Kveim and normal spleen suspensions in a guinea pig model of granulomatous bowel disease. Five of six animals sensitised with BCG showed positive responses at the ileal Kveim test site whereas all six had negative cutaneous Kveim tests. Conversely, two of six animals sensitised with irradiated Mycobacterium leprae showed positive cutaneous Kveim tests and only one a positive response in the ascending colon. All six showed negative responses at the ileal Kveim test site. No positive visceral or cutaneous responses were observed in either group of animals after tests with normal spleen suspension. These findings are discussed in relation to the positive Kveim responses previously reported among patients with Crohn's disease, tuberculoid and lepromatous leprosy, and among seemingly healthy BCG vaccinated subjects. The findings provide further evidence in support of a possible mycobacterial aetiology for sarcoidosis and Crohn's disease. 
Spinal cord ischemia after resection of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms: MR findings in 24 patients. MR images of the thoracic spinal cord were made in 24 patients who developed signs and symptoms of spinal cord ischemia or infarction following surgery for a thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. Findings consisted primarily of four different patterns of signal abnormalities in the distribution of the anterior spinal artery. These abnormalities were identified as types A-D, depending on the degree of involvement of the gray matter and surrounding white matter. We found good correlation between the distribution of the signal abnormalities in the cord, the severity of the neurologic deficits, and the clinical outcome. MR is the imaging method of choice for diagnosing spinal cord ischemia or infarction. A thorough knowledge of the spinal cord arterial territories is crucial for characterizing ischemic MR signal abnormalities and for differentiating them from other causes of myelopathy. 
Atypical myxoma. We report the case of a 38-year-old woman with a large thin-walled cystic mass (6 x 5 x 4.5 cm) filled with arterial blood in the right atrium. The cystic mass with blood content was clearly delineated by transesophageal cross-sectional echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging of the heart. At operation, a silver-whitish, smooth surfaced cystic mass was found attached to the free wall of the right atrium between the superior vena cava and the right atrial appendage with a broad base. Microscopically, the wall of the cyst was composed of stellate mesenchymal cells embedded within a myxoid matrix which was proved by alcian blue stain. To our knowledge, this type of cardiac myxoma has not been previously reported. 
Investigation of early surface delamination observed in retrieved heat-pressed tibial inserts. The objective was to examine possible reasons for delamination observed in tibial inserts of the porous-coated anatomic (PCA) knee replacement. To date, 33 PCA inserts have been forwarded to the authors' labs. Of these 33, 52% showed severe delamination within four years of implantation. Visual, structural, and mechanical analyses were conducted and data compared on the heat-pressed PCA type and the common machined inserts. Twenty inserts of the two different types were examined. Visual data using polarized light microscopy showed the presence of a surface layer separated from the middle region of the heat-pressed inserts by a line of demarcation 250-580 microns beneath the articulating surface. This anomaly was not observed in machined inserts. Structural analysis showed the new heat-pressed inserts had increased crystallinity in the surface layer when compared to new machined inserts. The retrieved heat-pressed inserts showed increased crystallinity in the surface and middle regions. There was a slight increase in surface crystallinity in the retrieved machined inserts. Microhardness data showed that there was an increased hardness associated with the crystallinity seen on the heat-pressed inserts. Orthopedic surgeons should be aware of early delamination and surface failure in heat-pressed inserts. 
Failure to deliver hepatitis B vaccine: confessions from a genitourinary medicine clinic. OBJECTIVE--To audit hepatitis B immunisation of homosexual or bisexual men in a genitourinary medicine clinic. DESIGN--Retrospective case note review of all homosexual and bisexual men presenting to a genitourinary clinic as new patients during 12 months in 1988 and follow up review of notes to May 1990. SETTING--One department of genitourinary medicine, Middlesex Hospital. PATIENTS--758 homosexual or bisexual men, of whom 207 started a course of hepatitis B vaccine in 1988. Case notes were unavailable for one patient. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--The proportion of patients screened for hepatitis B virus markers, the proportion of susceptible patients immunised, the proportion completing the vaccine course, and the proportion rendered immune. RESULTS--25 men had been previously tested for hepatitis markers; of the 732 not previously tested, 440 (60.1%) were screened for hepatitis B markers. 207 (69%) of the 300 patients without hepatitis B serological markers started the vaccine course, and 141 (68%) completed it, with 75 (84%) of the 89 tested after immunisation being immune. An estimated 24% of susceptible new patients were rendered immune as a result of the immunisation policy. Patients who presented with a further episode of a sexually transmitted disease were more likely to have been screened (25% v 12%, p less than 0.0001) and immunised (31% v 18% p = 0.02); those known or found to be positive for HIV antibody were more likely to have been screened (23% v 14%, p = 0.047) but less likely to have been immunised (6% v 17%, p = 0.004). CONCLUSIONS--The major failure was that in not screening; failure to immunise patients found to be susceptible and failure of compliance with the vaccine course contributed. Non-response to the vaccine was of minor importance. Improvements in vaccine delivery are required. IMPLICATIONS--Other providers should be encouraged to review their performance. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease as a cause of chest pain. Patients with recurrent chest pain free of significant coronary artery disease account for 10% to 30% of patients undergoing coronary angiography. Recent studies suggest that gastroesophageal reflux disease may be very common in these patients. The cause of this chest pain seems to be related primarily to an acid-sensitive mucosa regardless of the presence of esophagitis. Unfortunately, a careful history will not distinguish chest pain arising from a cardiac versus an esophageal source. Therefore, all patients must undergo a thorough cardiac evaluation before assuming that acid reflux is the cause of their complaints. Initial gastroenterology evaluation will usually include upper GI endoscopy or barium studies, possibly with acid perfusion (Bernstein) testing, or both. However, the more sensitive and specific test for acid-related disease is prolonged esophageal pH monitoring. This study quantifies the amount of acid reflux but, more importantly, identifies the relationship between chest pain and acid reflux episodes. Patients should be studied in the outpatient setting with emphasis placed on performing activities that replicate their chest pain. Although we presume that acid-induced chest pain responds as well as heartburn to vigorous antireflux regimens, there are few studies to address this issue. Nevertheless, I have had great success in treating these patients with either high-dose H2 blockers or omeprazole therapy. 
The effects of experimenter gender on pain report in male and female subjects. An experiment was conducted that investigated the effect of experimenter gender on the report of pain of male and female subjects. In order to evoke gender-related motives, experimenters were selected for their attractiveness. Subjects were asked to rate cold pressor pain in front of either a male or female experimenter. The results indicated that males reported significantly less pain in front of a female experimenter than a male experimenter. The difference in female subjects was not significant although they tended to report higher pain to the male experimenter. 
Breast cancer in elderly women: a Cancer Research Campaign trial comparing treatment with tamoxifen and optimal surgery with tamoxifen alone. The Elderly Breast Cancer Working Party. Three hundred and eighty-one women with operable breast cancer aged over 70 years were randomly allocated to 40 mg tamoxifen daily and optimal surgery or to tamoxifen alone. At a median follow-up of 34 months there was no demonstrable difference in survival rate or in quality of life between the two treatment groups. More patients treated with tamoxifen alone had a subsequent change of management and this was usually an operation for local treatment failure. This progression to surgery has not been shown to be disadvantageous and the study will continue. Informed consent for randomization was difficult to obtain, leading to the exclusion of eligible patients, and it is therefore proposed to include non-randomized patients in a total cohort study. 
Pain causes in 200 patients referred to a multidisciplinary cancer pain clinic. Causes of pain were analysed in 200 patients referred to a specialized cancer pain clinic. Pain caused by tumour growth was found in 158 patients, pain secondary to cancer or its treatment in 116 patients and pain unrelated to cancer in 33 patients. Visceral involvement (74 cases), bone metastases (68 cases), soft tissue invasion (56 cases) and nerve/plexus pressure or infiltration (39 cases) were the most frequent causes of pain due to tumour growth. Myogenic pain (68 cases) was the most frequent cause of secondary pain. The patients presented with a multitude of different combinations of causes of pain, the majority having at least two separate causes. Since pain treatment in cancer patients should be determined by its aetiology, a detailed analysis of the pain condition in each patient should form the basis for a rational therapy. 
Staging and follow-up of primary gastric lymphoma by endoscopic ultrasonography. The usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was assessed for diagnosing the depth of invasion in the gastric wall, the infiltration to the adjacent organs, and detecting regional lymph node involvement in primary gastric lymphoma. EUS was performed in 11 patients with primary gastric lymphoma who subsequently underwent gastrectomy with lymph node dissection, as well as chemotherapy in some cases. EUS findings showed a good correlation with the histopathology of the resected specimens. An accurate diagnosis of the depth of invasion into the gastric wall was made in 10 of 11 patients using the same T grade of the 1987 TNM system for gastric carcinoma. EUS also clearly visualized the reduction of depth of tumor invasion in two patients who underwent chemotherapy. Perigastric lymph node involvement could be detected accurately in nine of 11 patients. In conclusion, EUS is an excellent and sensitive diagnostic modality for the preoperative staging and follow-up of primary gastric lymphoma. 
Methylmercury blocks N- and L-type Ca++ channels in nerve growth factor-differentiated pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Effects of methylmercury (MeHg) on whole-cell Ba++ currents in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells were examined. Based on biophysical characteristics and sensitivity to omega-conotoxin GVIA and dihydropyridine agonists and antagonists, voltage-activated Ba++ currents (IBa) in PC12 cells were mediated by N- and L-type Ca++ channels. Addition of MeHg (10 microM) to the extracellular solution caused a rapid and complete block of current carried by 20 mM Ba++. The rate of block of IBa by MeHg increased in a concentration-dependent manner between 1 and 20 microM. Increasing the frequency of stimulation from 0.1 to 0.4 Hz facilitated block of IBa by MeHg. A 2-min application of 10 microM MeHg in the absence of stimulation also reduced IBa by approximately 80%. Thus, block of IBa by MeHg is not state-dependent. Additionally, MeHg blocked IBa when the membrane holding potential was -40, -70 and -90 mV, indicating that both N- and L-type Ca++ channels are blocked by MeHg. Block of IBa by MeHg was voltage-dependent at a membrane holding potential of -40 mV, but not at holding potentials of -70 and -90 mV. Decreasing the extracellular concentration of Ba++ ([Ba++]e) from 20 mM to 10 mM increased the magnitude of block by MeHg from 45.6 to 77.3%. Increasing [Ba++]e to 30 mM caused no further antagonism of block. Block of IBa by MeHg was not reversed by washing with MeHg-free solution. The ionic permeability of PC12 cell Ca++ channels was Ca++ = Sr++ greater than Ba++. In the presence of MeHg, all three divalent cations were equally permeant. 
Percutaneous coronary angioscopy in patients with restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioscopy with a flexible steerable microangioscope was performed in five patients undergoing repeat angioplasty. Recurrent lesions were assessed by angioscopy before and after the angioplasty procedure. The most common surface morphology observed in these restenosis lesions was that of white unpigmented lesions consistent with the proliferation of fibrous tissue. Also noted during angioscopy was the presence or absence of thrombus or dissection in association with the lesions either before or after angioplasty. Filmy wisps of tissue, presumably intimal flaps, were commonly visualized after angioplasty. There were no complications related to angioscopy or angioplasty in these patients. The surface morphology of restenosis lesions appears to be different from that of primary atherosclerotic lesions. The lesions in these five patients with restenosis were generally white and fibrotic in appearance, as opposed to the pigmented yellow to yellow-brown lesions commonly seen in undilated atherosclerotic lesions. It was also noted that the presence of intracoronary thrombus was strongly associated with the clinical syndrome of unstable angina. These findings support the hypothesis that restenosis lesions are the result of a reparative process consisting of smooth muscle cell proliferation and fibrosis. 
Abnormal esophageal transit in patients with typical reflux symptoms but normal endoscopic and pH profiles. There is a small, well-known cohort of patients who, despite classic reflux symptoms, have a normal esophageal pH profile and endoscopic picture. The treatment of these patients has proved problematic. In an attempt at determining the pathophysiology of this subgroup, we investigated the esophageal transit, using the radiolabeled solid bolus esophageal egg transit technique, in 58 such patients: 25 males, 33 females, mean age 39.5 years (range: 13 to 65 years). The egg transit was normal in 31 (53.4%) patients. In the remaining 27 (46.6%) patients, the condensed image analysis showed the following specific abnormal transit patterns: "step" delay pattern, demonstrating segmental hold-up in mid- or distal esophagus in 16 (59.3%); nonspecific delay in 6 (22.2%); oscillatory pattern in 3 (11.1%); and total nonclearance during the study period (4 minutes) in 2 (7.4%) patients. The patients with abnormal transit patterns had demographic parameters and symptom scores similar to those found in patients with normal transit. This study shows that almost 50% of patients with reflux symptoms and negative pH and endoscopy have abnormal esophageal transit, and almost two thirds of these patients display segmental transit delay in the lower half of the esophagus. The effect on symptomatology by prokinetic agents in the patient subgroup needs evaluation. 
The yield of barium enema in patients undergoing inguinal hernia repair or abdominal hysterectomy. It is the practice of some gynecologists and general surgeons to preoperatively evaluate the colon with a barium enema (BE) examination to exclude potential intestinal involvement or coexistent disease in patients undergoing pelvic or hernia operations. This practice appears to be based on anecdotal data with few studies specifically evaluating its usefulness. We retrospectively evaluated the records of 190 patients at William Beaumont Army Medical Center during 1986 to 1987 who received a preoperative BE prior to total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) or inguinal hernia repair (IHR). The tumor registry charts of 59 patients diagnosed with carcinoma of the colon and rectum during the same period were also cross-checked to determine if any were detected during preoperative evaluation for TAH or IHR. BE findings were considered significant if they altered surgical management or asymptomatic carcinoma was detected. Of 86 patients screened before TAH by BE, eight had abnormal findings with subsequent colonoscopy revealing four with adenomatous polyps, one of which required surgical resection. Of 104 patients screened before IHR by BE, 15 had abnormal findings with subsequent colonoscopy revealing five patients with adenomatous polyps and two with adenocarcinoma. Screening preoperative BE had a low yield of clinically significant findings, which was even lower in the subgroup with carcinoma. There was no apparent relationship between findings and age in our study. Our results suggest that the use of routine preoperative BE has a low yield and should be performed only if clinical symptoms or findings suggest a need for this study. 
Microsurgical free-tissue transfer in the elderly patient. During the 5-year period from July of 1984 to July of 1989, we performed 94 free-tissue transfers in 92 patients over the age of 50 whom we arbitrarily defined as "elderly." There were 32 patients in the age range between 50 and 59 years, 40 patients aged between 60 and 69 years, and 20 patients aged between 70 and 79 years. Seventy-one flaps were utilized for head and neck reconstruction, and 23 flaps were used in reconstruction of the trunk and extremities. There was 1 total flap loss, for a flap viability rate of 99 percent (93 of 94). Postoperative complications were classified into surgical (technical) and medical categories. There were 14 major surgical complications (15 percent) and 13 significant postoperative medical problems (14 percent). The majority of these complications occurred in head and neck cancer patients in the age group between 60 and 69 years, who had significant underlying medical problems and were preoperatively classified as ASA 3. There were 5 postoperative deaths, for a mortality rate of 5.4 percent (5 of 92 patients). 
Visual outcome in pseudophakic eyes with clinical cystoid macular edema. Thirty-nine eyes with clinical cystoid macular edema (CME) following extracapsular cataract extraction and intraocular lens (IOL) implantation were reviewed retrospectively. Chronic CME, defined as clinically symptomatic CME persisting more than 6 months, developed in 14 of the 39 eyes (36%): in 5 of the 7 (71%) eyes in which vitreous loss occurred and anterior chamber IOLs were implanted; and in 9 of 32 (28%) eyes in which no complications occurred and posterior chamber IOLs were implanted. The mean duration between diagnosis and last follow-up visit was 34 months. Only 4 of the 14 eyes (29%) with chronic CME achieved a visual acuity better than 20/40. Vitreous loss did not affect long-term visual prognosis. 
Interpretation of cardiac pathophysiology from pressure waveform analysis: the left-sided V wave [clinical conference] The left-sided V wave is dependent on both left atrial and ventricular pressure/volume filling relationship. The cardiac rhythm and timing of atrial systole also influences the V wave. The morphology of the V wave can reflect the severity of mitral regurgitation with stenosis, but valve areas in this setting may be better assessed by a pressure half-time method. Finally, as queried in our first patient example, V wave alternans is a reflection of left ventricular pressure alternans in a failing heart. Other signs of poor left ventricular function in Figure 1 also included an elevated minimal diastolic pressure and markedly elevated left ventricular end diastolic pressure. Hemodynamic findings of poor left ventricular function will be addressed in detail in a later "Rounds.". 
Fever in adult onset Still's disease. Response to methotrexate. Four patients who fulfilled criteria for adult onset Still's disease were treated sequentially with increasing doses of acetylsalicylic acid, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID) and prednisone to control their fever and systemic manifestations. Persistence of the fever led us to treat them with small doses of methotrexate (MTX) with excellent response. Low dose MTX should be considered in patients unresponsive to antiinflammatory drugs before using high doses of prednisone. 
Selegiline: initial or adjunctive therapy of Parkinson's disease? Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurologic motor disorder. Currently, levodopa/carbidopa is the standard mode of therapy for PD; however, it does not prevent progression of the disease. Selegiline (also known as deprenyl), is a selective irreversible monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor virtually devoid of the tyramine reaction at the recommended dosage of 10 mg/d. It is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the adjunctive use in the management of patients with PD who are receiving levodopa/carbidopa and exhibit a "wearing off" effect of levodopa. Numerous clinical trials have been conducted evaluating selegiline's role in the treatment of PD. Preliminary evidence from the DATATOP trial suggests that selegiline may slow the progression of PD when used as initial therapy. However, final results of this trial and additional long-term controlled trials comparing selegiline to levodopa and placebo groups are necessary to further clarify selegiline's role in the treatment of PD. 
Fluoroscopic guidance in transseptal catheterization for percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy. A percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy (PMBV) was attempted on 190 patients with fluoroscopic guidance of atrial septal puncture for transseptal catheterization; in 3 cases, the procedure could not be performed. The left atrium was always reached on the first attempt, when the relationship of the Brockenbrough needle to the aortic catheter was previously observed in 3 fluoroscopic views: anteroposterior, 45 degrees right anterior oblique, and lateral. The atrial septal puncture site was located immediately below the aortic valve level, probably in the fossa ovalis, for the first 80 patients, and at mid distance between the aortic valve level and the diaphragm for the last 110. Hemodynamic data were similar in both groups. Fluoroscopic guidance for atrial septal puncture seemed capital for patients with scoliosis or in whom a vascular distortion (e.g., advanced pregnancy, right inferior vena cava absence) prevented a perfect parallelism between the needle curve and the needle outer index. 
Persistence of Theiler's virus infection following promotion of central nervous system remyelination. Chronic infection of SJL/J mice with the Daniel's strain of Theiler's virus develop primary demyelination, viral persistence but minimal central nervous system (CNS)-type remyelination. In contrast, treatment of virus-infected mice with sera or immunoglobulin G (IgG) from mice immunized with homogenized spinal cord (SCH) emulsified in incomplete Freund's adjuvant promotes CNS remyelination. We measured levels of infectious virus, virus antigen and virus-specific antibody to determine if treatments which promote CNS remyelination are able to modulate infection. Levels of virus-specific antibody were higher in mice treated with SCH/IgG than control treatment groups and correlated positively with extent of remyelination. Although number of virus antigen-positive cells in spinal cord was less in mice treated with SCH/IgG than mice treated with phosphate buffered saline (PBS)/IgG, there was only a slight negative correlation with extent of remyelination by regression analysis. Titers of infectious virus isolated three to six months following infection were not different among treatment groups. Even though treatment of mice with SCH/IgG reduced number of virus antigen-positive cells and enhanced levels of virus-specific antibody, CNS remyelination can occur despite presence of infectious virus. 
Vertebral alterations in Scheuermann's kyphosis. In a cadaver-derived skeletal collection of 1,384 thoracolumbar spinal columns, 103 (7.4%) individuals with vertebral changes of Scheuermann's kyphosis were identified. Anterior extension of the vertebral specimens was noted in 94% of affected specimens. No evidence of osteoporosis was noted by single-photon absorptiometric analysis in the affected sample compared with a normal control group. Biopsy specimens from two immature patients obtained at surgery suggested disorganized endochondral ossification similar to that noted in Blount's disease. It was concluded that increased pressure on the anterior margin of the centrum is responsible for histologic and morphologic changes of Scheurermann's kyphosis. 
Left ventricular myocardial edema. Lymph flow, interstitial fibrosis, and cardiac function. We hypothesized that both acute and chronic accumulation of myocardial interstitial edema (extravascular fluid [EVF]) would compromise cardiac function. We also postulated that excess fluid within the myocardial interstitial space would potentiate interstitial fibrosis, thus further compromising function. Dogs were divided into three groups: 1) control, 2) chronic pulmonary hypertensive with right heart failure, and 3) chronic arterial hypertensive. The quantity of EVF, expressed as the unitless blood-free (wet weight-dry weight)/dry weight ratio, and interstitial fibrosis (collagen content) were determined and correlated with cardiac function at baseline and after acute elevation of coronary venous pressure and reduction of cardiac lymph flow. Control EVF was 2.90 +/- 0.20 (mean +/- SD), which increased to 3.45 +/- 0.16 after acute (3-hour) elevation of coronary sinus pressure. This EVF significantly compromised cardiac function. The EVF in chronically hypertensive dogs and in dogs with chronic right heart pressure elevations was 3.50 +/- 0.30 and 3.50 +/- 0.08, respectively. End-diastolic left ventricular interstitial fluid pressure increased from a control value of 14.9 +/- 3.1 (at EVF = 2.9) to 24.8 +/- 3.7 (at EVF = 3.5). An EVF of 3.5 produced approximately 30% reduction of the heart's ability to maintain cardiac output at a left atrial pressure of 15 mm Hg. The compromised function in these chronic models is exacerbated after acute elevation of coronary venous pressure and reduction of cardiac lymph flow. Collagen levels were elevated by at least 20% in the chronic hypertensive dogs and in the nonhypertrophied left ventricles of dogs with chronic right heart pressure elevation. 
Renal colic. Utility of the plain abdominal roentgenogram. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 85 consecutive symptomatic patients to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of plain abdominal roentgenography (PAR) compared with clinical evaluation alone in diagnosis and treatment of renal colic. With a positive intravenous pyelogram and/or actual stone retrieval used as the gold standard, 72 patients had documented stones. The calculated sensitivity and specificity for PAR were 58% (95% confidence interval, 47% to 69%) and 69% (95% confidence interval, 44% to 94%), respectively. In this population with a stone prevalence of 85%, the positive predictive value of PAR was 91%. A clinical scoring system based on signs and symptoms fared as well as PAR (sensitivity, 73%; specificity, 46%; and positive predictive value, 88%). The strategy of clinical scoring followed by selective use of intravenous pyelography was more cost-effective than strategies using PAR. We conclude that the PAR has low sensitivity and specificity and improves the predictive value only marginally, and its routine use is not cost-effective. 
Sulphasalazine-induced reversible hypersensitivity pneumonitis and fatal fibrosing alveolitis: report of two cases. The cases of two patients with ulcerative colitis are described who developed pulmonary infiltrates during the early months of treatment with sulphasalazine. The first patient had a hypersensitivity pneumonitis, which was confirmed by challenge. Recovery was complete. The second patient developed a fibrosing alveolitis type reaction, with fatal outcome. 
Rearrangements of the tal-1 locus as clonal markers for T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Normal and aberrant immune receptor gene assembly each produce site-specific DNA rearrangements in leukemic lymphoblasts. In either case, these rearrangements provide useful clonal markers for the leukemias in question. In the t(1;14)(p34;q11) translocation associated with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), the breakpoints on chromosome 1 interrupt the tal-1 gene. A site-specific deletion interrupts the same gene in an additional 26% of T-ALL. Thus, nearly one-third of these leukemias contain clustered rearrangements of the tal-1 locus. To test whether these rearrangements can serve as markers for residual disease, we monitored four patients with T-ALL; three of the leukemias contained a deleted (tald) and one a translocated (talt) tal-1 allele. These alleles were recognized by a sensitive amplification/hybridization assay. tald alleles were found in the blood of one patient during the 4th mo of treatment but not thereafter. Using a quantitative assay to measure the fraction of tald alleles in DNA extracts, we estimated that this month 4 sample contained 150 tald copies per 10(6) genome copies. The patient with t(1;14)(p34;q11) (talt) leukemia developed a positive assay during the 20th mo of treatment. By standard criteria, all four patients remain in complete remission 11-20 mo into treatment. We conclude that tal-1 rearrangements provide useful clonal markers for approximately 30% of T-ALLs. 
Idiopathic aldosteronism in pregnancy. This is the first reported case of the idiopathic type of primary aldosteronism in pregnancy. The severely hypertensive patient was unresponsive to treatment with high doses of four antihypertensive agents administered concurrently. A drastic improvement in blood pressure was noted within 24 hours of beginning enalapril maleate, although subsequent deterioration in fetal status led to delivery at 26 weeks' gestation. Alternatives to standard medical therapy may be necessary for this rare but potentially life-threatening disease during pregnancy. 
The economic burden of gallstone lithotripsy. Will cost determine its fate? Gallstone lithotripsy (LITHO) was performed on 52 patients who underwent 107 procedures. Two hundred sixty-seven gallstone patients were screened and 215 (81%) were excluded. Excessive stone burden and nonvisualization by oral cholecystogram (OCG) were the most common reasons for exclusion. The hospital course of 100 excluded patients who later underwent elective cholecystectomy was evaluated for length of hospital stay (2.3 days) and total cost of treatment ($3685.00). Successful fragmentation to less than 5 mm was achieved in 43 LITHO patients (83%). Five LITHO patients (10%) required conversion to operative management. Complications of LITHO included acute cholecystitis (1 of 52 patients) and biliary colic (17 of 52 patients, or 33%). Multiple procedures in one patient were common. Costs for LITHO were calculated in two ways: first the individual cost for each of the 52 candidates; second the cost for successful LITHO was calculated by excluding five patients who required operation as well as five patients (10%) who are predicted failures of LITHO. Including the preoperative evaluation, treatment, recovery room, and follow-up, the individual LITHO cost for 52 patients was $8275.00. If the same total expenditure is calculated after excluding patients who required operation and those predicted to fail, the cost per 'successful' LITHO procedure was $10,245. The cost of 1 year of bile acid therapy is $1949.00 or $2413.00 per 'successful' procedure. Follow-up costs were $1232.00 per patient or $1525.00 per 'successful' procedure. The added LITHO cost incurred by screening eventual noncandidates was $904.00 per successful procedure. The sum of these individual costs was $15,087.00 per success, as compared to $3685.00 for cholecystectomy. No allowance was made for cost of stone recurrence. Lithotripsy costs appear to be sufficiently high to render the procedure unlikely to emerge as the treatment of choice. 
Selective photothermolysis and removal of cutaneous vasculopathies and tattoos by pulsed laser. The evolution of the laser as a medical device has been a process of continued improvement. Research into increasing our understanding of the optical characteristics of skin has made it possible to concentrate not on the effects of any particular laser system, but on basic biologic and physical principles of laser-tissue interaction. The lasers available in the 1960s and 1970s offered few possibilities for modification. However, modern technology allows us to manipulate the physical characteristics of lasers and design them for specific therapeutic purposes. Selective photothermolysis relies on chromophore-specific absorption of a brief pulse of light to generate and confine heat to certain targets within the skin without nonspecific thermal damage to adjacent structures. Thermally mediated target alterations can be confined from the level of large multicellular tissue structures (e.g., blood vessels) to individual microscopic pigmented structures (e.g., tattoo pigment granules). The purpose of this report is to describe the current progress being made and to summarize the present theories for achieving increasing selective removal, without scarring or other skin textural changes, of cutaneous vasculopathies and tattoo pigment by pulsed laser. 
Ewing's sarcoma in children: twenty-five years of experience at the Instituto Portuges de Oncologia de Francisco Gentil (I.P.O.F.G.). Fifty children with Ewing's sarcoma were consecutively treated from 1962 to 1987 and retrospectively analyzed at the I.P.O.F.G. of Lisbon. At first diagnosis, 10 cases had distant metastases. The remaining 40 patients had clinically localized disease, and different protocols were followed over the years. The best results were obtained with chemotherapy and radiotherapy with or without surgery; and for these children the two-year survival rate was 42.8% vs. 8.3% for the group of patients submitted to local treatment alone. Besides the treatment modality, other factors influenced the prognosis, such as inflammatory signs, sex, tumor volume, and tumor site as well as evidence of distant metastases. 
Repair of aortic coarctation in infants. Fifty-three consecutive infants younger than 2 years underwent coarctation repair. A recoarctation occurred in 11 infants (21%). To determine variables associated with recoarctation, we entered preoperative and operative data into a multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis. Patient weight was an incremental risk factor for recoarctation instead of age, in contrast to previously published studies. Furthermore, the residual gradient after the operation was a strong incremental risk factor. This risk factor was even more significant when expressed as a ratio of the systolic arm pressure, which takes background hemodynamics into account. Because weight is a more significant risk factor than age, we conclude that deferring operation is indicated only when the infant gains weight. Furthermore, a residual gradient is more important in the hemodynamic setting of a lower systolic arm pressure. 
Pathophysiology of upper airway closure during sleep. While the upper airway normally remains patent during quiet breathing in wakefulness and sleep, patients with obstructive sleep apnea have repetitive periods of upper airway closure during sleep. The upper airway closures usually occur at various sites in the pharynx. The patency of the potentially collapsible pharynx during inspiration depends on the balance between subatmospheric pressure in the pharyngeal airway and airway dilating forces generated by pharyngeal muscles. The pressure required to collapse the upper airway in the absence of upper airway muscle activity, ie, closing pressure, is normally subatmospheric. In obstructive sleep apnea, positive pressures are required to maintain patency of the passive upper airway. The pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying upper airway closures during sleep form the basis for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. In general, these treatment modalities attempt to (1) raise the pharyngeal pressure above the closing pressure, (2) decrease the closing pressure, or (3) increase upper airway muscle activity. 
Clinical characteristics and surgical management of vascular complications in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization: interventional versus diagnostic procedures. The purpose of this report is to define the clinical characteristics and outcome of surgical management of vascular complications after interventional cardiac catheterization and to contrast them to those after diagnostic cardiac catheterization. From October 1985 to December 1989, 101 patients were treated for 106 vascular complications after 1866 interventional and 5046 diagnostic cardiac catheterizations at the University of Michigan Medical Center. Interventional catheterizations resulted in 69 vascular complications in 64 patients (frequency 3.4%). The most common interventions included coronary angioplasty (34), of which 10 required percutaneous partial cardiopulmonary bypass, intraaortic balloon pump placement (14), and aortic valvuloplasty (11). Interventional catheter-related complications included hemorrhage (33), arterial thrombosis (18), pseudoaneurysm formation (12), catheter embolization (2), thromboembolism (2), as well as arteriovenous fistula, pseudoaneurysm, and arterial dissection (1 each). Fifteen of these 69 patients (24%) had suffered acute myocardial infarction just before their catheterization. Surgical repair was performed under local anesthesia in 70% of patients. Major vascular reconstructions were required in 9% of patients. Three percent of the involved lower extremities had to be amputated because of complications occurring after arterial puncture. Eight percent of the patients incurring vascular complications after interventional procedures died after operation. Diagnostic catheterizations resulted in 37 vascular complications in 37 patients (frequency 0.7%). In contrast to diagnostic cardiac catheterization, vascular complications after interventional cardiac catheterization occurred more frequently, were most often due to hemorrhage at the vascular access site, and occurred in high-risk, critically ill patients. 
Significance of aberrant immunophenotypes in childhood acute lymphoid leukemia. Leukemic cells from 51 pediatric patients (younger than 18 years) diagnosed with acute lymphoid leukemia by standard morphologic and cytochemical methods were subjected to flow cytometric studies using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against T-cell (CD1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8), B-cell (CD10, 19, 20, 21), myeloid (CD13, 14, 15, 33), and HLA-DR antigens. Cases of "conventional" acute lymphoid leukemia (leukemic cells with a normal configuration of B-cell or T-cell differentiation antigens) were observed in 26 of 51 (51%) cases, whereas cases of "aberrant" acute lymphoid leukemia (cells with abnormal patterns of B-cell or T-cell antigens or with concomitant myeloid antigens) were noticed in 25 (49%) cases. Myeloid antigen-positive acute lymphoid leukemia was observed in the leukemic cells of eight (16%) individuals. No significant differences were observed between conventional and aberrant ALL in the distribution of sex, age, leukocyte count, hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, blast count, French-American-British (FAB) type, lymphadenopathy, organomegaly, rate or duration of remission, or survival. When only myeloid antigen-positive cases were compared with myeloid antigen negative-cases, no significant correlations were observed except for duration of first remission (myeloid antigen positive, 26+ +/- 22 months; myeloid antigen negative, 40+ +/- 18 months; P less than 0.001), and duration of survival (myeloid antigen positive, 27+ +/- 24 months; myeloid antigen negative, 62+ +/- 17 months; P = 0.001). These data suggest that pediatric patients with ALL blasts possessing myeloid antigens may represent a high-risk group for length of remission and survival. 
Long-term mortality after 5-year multifactorial primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases in middle-aged men OBJECTIVE. To investigate the long-term effects of multifactorial primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). DESIGN. The 5-year randomized, controlled trial was performed between 1974 and 1980. The subjects and their risk factors were reevaluated in 1985. Posttrial mortality follow-up was continued up to December 31, 1989. SETTING. Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland, and Second Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki. PARTICIPANTS. In all, 3490 business executives born during 1919 through 1934 participated in health checkups in the late 1960s. In 1974, 1222 of these men who were clinically healthy, but with CVD risk factors, were entered into the primary prevention trial; 612 were randomized to an intervention and 610 to a control group. INTERVENTIONS. During the 5-year trial, the subjects of the intervention group visited the investigators every fourth month. They were treated with intensive dietetic-hygienic measures and frequently with hypolipidemic (mainly clofibrate and/or probucol) and antihypertensive (mainly beta-blockers and/or diuretics) drugs. The control group was not treated by the investigators. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES. Total mortality, cardiac mortality, mortality due to other causes. RESULTS. Total coronary heart disease risk was reduced by 46% in the intervention group as compared with the control group at end-trial. During 5 posttrial years, the risk factor and medication differences were largely leveled off between the groups. Between 1974 and 1989 the total number of deaths was 67 in the intervention group and 46 in the control group (relative risk [RR], 1.45; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.01 to 2.08; P = .048); there were 34 and 14 cardiac deaths (RR, 2.42; 95% CI, 1.31 to 4.46; P = .001), two and four deaths due to other CVD (not significant), 13 and 21 deaths due to cancer (RR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.31 to 1.22; P = .15), and 13 and one deaths due to violence (RR, 13.0; 95% CI, 1.70 to 98.7; P = .002), respectively. Multiple logistic regression analysis of treatments in the intervention group did not explain the 15-year excess cardiac mortality. CONCLUSION. These unexpected results may not question multifactorial prevention as such but do support the need for research on the selection and interaction(s) of methods used in the primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases. 
The nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway in Wilson's disease studied with positron emission tomography. Movement disorders, including Parkinsonism, are prominent features of neurological Wilson's disease (WD). This suggests there may be dysfunction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. To explore this possibility, five patients were studied using positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-6-fluorodopa (6FD), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We calculated striatal 6FD uptake rate constants by a graphical method and compared the results with those of 18 normal subjects. It was found that four patients with symptoms all had abnormally low 6FD uptake, and the one asymptomatic patient had normal uptake. PET evidence for nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction was present even after many years of penicillamine treatment. It is concluded that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway is involved in neurological WD. 
Otoplasty: critical review of clinical results. Although it is generally believed that otoplasty provides uniformly gratifying results, thorough patient follow-up reviews are quite rare. Otoplasty surgery performed on 119 ears was retrospectively reviewed to assess the results of our cartilage-sparing technique. This method of otoplasty relies on a conchal set-back and suture transfixation technique to improve the antihelical contour. Auricular medialization averaged 10.3 mm. Over-correction is required, particularly in the superior pole, as loss of correction with healing was approximately 40% of the initial medialization. Revision surgery due to loss of correction was necessary for 6.6% of the ears initially operated on by the senior author. Patients who presented following cartilage-cutting procedures tended to have a higher rate of revision and persistent postoperative stigmata. Complications in general were few; however, mersilene suture extrusion occurred in 8% of ears. Only one of these required revision surgery for associated loss of correction. Despite these drawbacks, over 95% of patients achieved satisfactory results using cartilage-sparing otoplasty techniques. 
Dose-dependent inhibition of stretch-induced arrhythmias by gadolinium in isolated canine ventricles. Evidence for a unique mode of antiarrhythmic action. Transient diastolic dilatation of the isolated canine left ventricle predictably elicits arrhythmias. To test the hypothesis that such arrhythmias may be mediated by sarcolemmal stretch-activated channels, we attempted to inhibit stretch-induced arrhythmias with gadolinium (Gd3+), a potent stretch-activated channel blocker. In experiments with six isolated canine hearts, left ventricular volume was increased for 50 msec during early diastole and then returned to initial volume by a computerized servopump. The stretch volume was adjusted to yield a probability of eliciting a stretch-induced arrhythmia of 95 +/- 2% before treatment with Gd3+. When Gd3+ (1-10 microM) was administered, dose-dependent suppression of stretch-induced arrhythmias was observed. The probability of a stretch-induced arrhythmia was reduced to 13 +/- 10% (p less than 0.05) with 10 microM Gd3+. Washout of Gd3+ completely reversed this effect. Since Gd3+ is known to be a calcium channel antagonist, we compared the effect of Gd3+ on stretch-induced arrhythmias with that of verapamil and nifedipine. These calcium channel blockers produced no demonstrable inhibition of stretch-induced arrhythmias when administered at concentrations (1 microM) that substantially depressed left ventricular pressure development. Thus, our results indirectly implicate stretch-activated channels in the genesis of stretch-induced arrhythmias and provide preliminary evidence for a potential new mode of antiarrhythmic drug action--blockade of stretch-activated channels. 
Cytomegalovirus endomyocarditis in a transplanted heart. A case report with in situ hybridization. A 64-year-old man underwent cardiac transplantation for long-standing severe dilated cardiomyopathy. Postoperative complications included primary cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection with several episodes of moderate acute rejection and severe pneumonia. Six months after transplantation, an endomyocardial biopsy specimen revealed focal necrotizing myocarditis with intranuclear inclusions consistent with CMV. The patient subsequently developed fulminant pneumonia and died 7 months after transplantation. Postmortem examination revealed that the cause of death was acute necrotizing bronchopneumonia due to Staphylococcus aureus, with underlying CMV pneumonitis. The transplanted heart had left ventricular hypertrophy with multiple organizing myocardial infarcts, moderate coronary atherosclerosis, and organizing thrombi of the left atrium. Characteristic inclusions of CMV were identified, predominantly within endothelial cells, in the left coronary artery, left ventricular endocardium, and myocardium. With in situ hybridization, the presence of CMV was verified in the inclusions, as well as in many fibroblasts without inclusions. In situ hybridization is warranted in myocardial biopsy specimens when suspicious inclusions or infiltrates are present, to confirm CMV infection, so that appropriate therapy can be initiated. 
Role of ammonia in the induction of renal hypertrophy. Recent experiments from our laboratory have documented the importance of ammonia as a modulator of renal cell growth in vitro. Ammonia induces renal hypertrophy by increasing the rate of protein synthesis and decreasing the rate of protein degradation. These results have led to the hypothesis that an increase in renal ammoniagenesis contributes to renal growth in several seemingly unrelated clinical disorders. In chronic hypokalemia and metabolic acidosis, mitochondrial ammoniagenesis is stimulated directly. During protein loading, uninephrectomy, and diabetes mellitus, renal ammoniagenesis may be stimulated by an increase in single-nephron glomerular filtration rate (SNGFR). 
Health implications of obesity. The health risks of obesity increase with its severity and reach significance at a weight greater than 20% above optimal, by using life insurance tables, or at a body mass index greater than 27. Risks include hypertension, insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, and, in some studies, high total-and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol. There is an increased mortality from endometrial cancer in women and from colorectal cancer in men. Chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia, sleep apnea, gout, and degenerative joint disease can occur with more severe obesity. The distribution of body fat is directly related to these health risks. Abdominal obesity is more dangerous than gluteal-femoral obesity because the amount of intraabdominal fat seems to determine much of the increased peril; therefore, risks of cardiovascular disease, stroke, hypertension, and diabetes increase with abdominal obesity, even independently of total fat mass. 
CT-guided percutaneous transpedicular biopsy of the spine. Occasionally, vertebral body lesions are encountered that are ill suited to the standard posterolateral approach to biopsy. The authors used a transpedicular approach to spine biopsy in six such cases. The authors suggest that this approach be used when the location of the lesion does not allow easy access by means of the posterolateral approach. 
Otolaryngologic approach to the diagnosis and management of otitis media. Otitis media is a common childhood disease caused by multiple factors. Understanding the pathogenesis of otitis media is important in the diagnosis and management of it. The mode of therapy should be chosen depending on the type and stage of the disease. Treatment options available to an otolaryngologist include antibiotics, tympanocentesis, myringotomy and tympanostomy tube insertions, adenoidectomy with or without tonsillectomy, exploratory tympanotomy, atympanoplasty, and mastoidectomy. 
Seizures in patients simultaneously receiving theophylline and imipenem or ciprofloxacin or metronidazole. Five patients had apparently drug-induced seizures while simultaneously receiving theophylline and either imipenem (three patients), ciprofloxacin (one patient), or ciprofloxacin and metronidazole (one patient). Seizures ceased upon reduction in dosage or discontinuation of the suspected offending agents. Imaging studies failed to reveal new structural lesions in the central nervous system in any patient, and only one had a history of neurologic disease. Although the exact mechanism for seizure induction cannot be determined from these cases, potential drug interactions exist, because theophylline, imipenem, and ciprofloxacin are all believed to increase excitation of the central nervous system by inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid binding to receptors. In addition, ciprofloxacin decreases the clearance of theophylline from the body, predisposing the patient to elevated theophylline levels. Physicians prescribing theophylline with imipenem, ciprofloxacin, or metronidazole should carefully monitor patients for indications for drug therapy, drug dosage, organ impairment affecting drug metabolism, and signs of toxicity. Seizures may accompany oral theophylline therapy, even at "therapeutic" serum theophylline concentrations. 
Statin immunolocalization in human brain tumors. Detection of noncycling cells using a novel marker of cell quiescence. Surgical specimens of 35 human brain tumors were examined with a novel monoclonal antibody, S-44, immunoreactive to statin, a nuclear protein specifically expressed in quiescent (noncycling) G0-phase cells. Benign tumors typically were statin positive with labeling indices (LI) between 22% and 96%: acoustic schwannomas (n = 3, mean = 29.9 +/- 19.4%); meningiomas (n = 4, mean = 59.0 +/- 15.1%); pituitary adenomas (n = 3, mean = 79.9 +/- 28.2%), and an epidermoid cyst (41.0%). By contrast, the statin LI of 18 of 24 (75%) malignant brain tumors was less than or equal to 2%: medulloblastomas (n = 7, mean = 0.3 +/- 0.2%); anaplastic astrocytomas (n = 3, mean = 1.6 +/- 2.7%); glioblastomas (n = 10, mean = 10.3 +/- 14.4%); metastatic carcinomas (n = 3, mean = 3.0 +/- 4.6); and a germinoma (0.2%). The vascular endothelium among diverse tumors typically was statin positive. All 21 tumors with a statin LI less than 10% were malignant, and all nine tumors with a statin LI greater than 40% were benign. The statin LI of benign tumors (n = 11, mean = 55.1 +/- 26.7%) was significantly higher than that of the malignant tumors (n = 24, mean = 5.2 +/- 10.5%, P less than 0.001). The absence of statin expression is a new way to determine the malignancy of human brain tumors. The statin LI may be useful to guide the prognosis and treatment of individual patients. The mechanisms that control statin expression are important in therapy seeking to shift the proliferating, cycling cells to the quiescent, G0 compartment. 
Can computer aided teaching packages improve clinical care in patients with acute abdominal pain? OBJECTIVE--To compare three methods of support for inexperienced staff in their diagnosis and management of patients with acute abdominal pain--namely, with (a) structured data collection forms, (b) real time computer aided decision support, and (c) computer based teaching packages. DESIGN--Prospective assessment of effects of methods of support on groups of doctors in one urban hospital and one rural hospital. SETTING--Accident and emergency department at Whipps Cross Hospital, London, and surgical wards of Airedale General Hospital, West Yorkshire. PATIENTS--Consecutive prospective series of all patients presenting to each hospital in specified time periods with acute abdominal pain; total patients in the various periods were 12,506. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Diagnostic accuracy of participating doctors, admission rates of patients with non-specific abdominal pain, perforation rates in patients with appendicitis, negative laparotomy rates. RESULTS--Use of any one modality resulted in improved diagnostic accuracy and decision making performance. Use of structured forms plus computer feedback resulted in better performance than use of forms alone. Use of structured forms plus a computer teaching package gave results at least as good as those with direct feedback by computer. CONCLUSIONS--The results confirm earlier studies in suggesting that the use of computer aided decision support improves diagnostic and decision making performance when dealing with patients suffering from acute abdominal pain. That use of the computer for teaching gave results at least as good as with its use for direct feedback may be highly relevant for those who are apprehensive about the real time use of diagnostic computers in a clinical setting. 
Thrombolytic therapy in the management of acute limb ischaemia. Acute limb ischaemia poses a threat to both the limb and life of a patient. Until recently, attempted revascularization by thromboembolectomy or vascular reconstruction held the best chance of limb salvage. Thrombolytic techniques afford an alternative method of management for this condition and are effective in selected patients. Low-dose intra-arterial streptokinase is the most established method of thrombolysis, although the recently developed tissue plasminogen activator offers a promising alternative. Intra-arterial thrombolysis is not an easy option, being labour intensive and requiring close co-operation between surgeon and radiologist. Thrombolytic and surgical techniques are not mutually exclusive but are best used to complement each other. Ideally patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by surgeons with knowledge of, and access to, optimal current surgical and non-surgical techniques. 
A modified neoglottis procedure: update and analysis. In recent years, various techniques have been introduced for construction of an epithelium-lined shunt between the trachea and the esophagus or hypopharynx. We described a rigid neoglottis in a preliminary report of 12 cases in which the upper tracheal rings were used to construct the epithelium-lined tract. This study reports the cases of 22 additional patients and offers an in-depth analysis of additional demographics, complications, and long-term speech results that quantify the vocal characteristics of neoglottic speakers. Results indicate rapid postoperative speech rehabilitation in nearly all patients, good long-term speech results (mean followup, 52 months), and low morbidity. There was a low incidence of local recurrence and stenosis, and 26 of 34 patients had either no aspiration or occasional asymptomatic aspiration of small amounts of liquid. This modified neoglottis procedure should be considered for patients who need voice restoration after laryngectomy. 
Retinoic acid-induced granulocytic differentiation of HL60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells is preceded by downregulation of autonomous generation of inositol lipid-derived second messengers. Inositol phosphates (InsPs) and diacyglycerol (DAG) are second messengers derived via the breakdown of inositol phospholipids, and which play important signalling roles in the regulation of proliferation of some cell types. We have studied the operation of this pathway during the early stages of retionic acid (RA)-induced granulocytic differentiation of HL60 myeloid leukemia cells. The autonomous breakdown of inositol lipids that occurred in HL60 cells labeled with [3H] inositol was completely abolished following 48 hours of RA treatment. The rate of influx of 45Ca2+ was also significantly decreased at 48 hours, consistent with the role of inositol lipid-derived second messengers in regulating Ca2+ entry into cells. The downregulation of inositol lipid metabolism clearly preceded the onset of reduced proliferation induced by RA treatment, and was therefore not a consequence of decreased cell growth. The generation of InsPs in RA-treated cells was reactivated by the fluoroaluminate ion, a direct activator of guanine nucleotide-binding protein(s) (G proteins) that regulate the inositol lipid signalling pathway. Subtle alterations to a regulatory mechanism may therefore mediate the RA-induced downregulation of this pathway. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the autonomous generation of inositol lipid-derived second messengers may contribute to the continuous proliferation of HL60 cells, and that the RA-induced downregulation of this pathway may, in turn, play a role in signalling the cessation of proliferation that preceedes granulocytic differentiation. 
Bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia in common variable immunodeficiency syndrome. A 26-year-old woman with common variable immunodeficiency syndrome (CVID) associated with frequent episodes of pneumonia underwent an open lung biopsy showing bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (BOOP). Following corticosteroid therapy, there were no further episodes of pneumonia. In addition, there was roentgenographic and gas exchange improvement. This is the first case of BOOP in association with CVID. An immunologic basis of BOOP is postulated. 
Orbital and eyelid involvement with Erdheim-Chester disease. A report of two cases. Erdheim-Chester disease is an idiopathic condition characterized by infiltration of the heart, lungs, retroperitoneum, bones, and other tissues by a fibrosing xanthogranulomatous process composed of xanthomatous histiocytes and Touton giant cells. This condition is often fatal, with death due to cardiomyopathy, severe lung disease, or chronic renal failure. Ocular findings with this potentially fatal disease are rare. We report the clinical and histopathologic findings in two cases of bilateral xanthelasmas and bilateral orbital infiltrates in association with Erdheim-Chester disease. The first patient was a 38-year-old man with cardiovascular and renal disease and severe retroperitoneal fibrosis. The massive orbital infiltration produced bilateral blindness. The second patient was a 77-year-old man with severe cardiovascular disease and retroperitoneal fibrosis. The diagnosis was confirmed in both patients with retroperitoneal and orbital biopsies. Both patients had the unusual occurrence of bilateral xanthelasmas with bilateral, diffuse orbital masses, eye findings that should alert the clinician to the possibility of this serious systemic disease. 
A community-based study of incidence, risk factors and outcome of transient ischaemic attacks in Umbria, Italy: the SEPIVAC study. The SEPIVAC study is a community-based epidemiological survey of incidence and outcome of transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) and strokes in the territory of the 6th Local Health Unit, Umbria, Italy, where 49,218 people live, from 1 September 1986 to 31 August 1989. All cases were registered with the study either by notification from general practitioners (GPs) or by a check of hospital admission within the study area and in the two hospitals of Perugia. There were 94 incident cases of TIAs (45 males, 49 females), thus giving a crude rate of 0.64 per 1000 per year [95% conficence intervals (CI) 0.52/0.78]. The rate adjusted to the European population is 0.42 (CI 0.33/0.54). Mean age was 69.4 years, and females were significantly older than males. The weighted relative risk for males was 1.19 (CI 0.79/1.79). Thirty-one patients were treated at home by their GPs. Females had hypertension more frequently than males, whereas males smoked more frequently; we did not find any other statistically significant difference in the distribution of risk factors. Twelve patients out of 58 who had CT had an infarct, and 29 out of 54 submitted to Doppler ultrasonography had carotid stenosis. At 1 month, 4 patients had suffered an ischaemic stroke, 1 of whom died. At 6 months, 3 further strokes and 2 further deaths (1 due to myocardial infarction) had occurred. 
Argon laser therapy for perianal Bowen's disease: a case report. Bowen's disease (intraepithelial squamous cell carcinoma) may occasionally occur in anal canal or perianal region. Surgical excision in this area may result in significant complications and a recurrence rate of 9-19%. A case of successful treatment of anal and perianal Bowen's disease using argon laser therapy is presented. No acute or chronic complications resulted from laser therapy. Twenty-eight months after the initial diagnosis the patient is disease free. Laser therapy also provides the potential for repeated treatment of recurrent lesions without significant patient discomfort or inconvenience. Argon laser therapy should be considered as a therapeutic option in the treatment of Bowen's disease. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy in early breast cancer and incidence of new primary malignancies. Adjuvant chemotherapy is increasingly being given to patients with early breast cancer. Long-term follow-up studies suggest a higher frequency of secondary tumours, especially leukaemias, among women receiving such cytotoxic drugs. We studied the frequency of new primary malignancies in 1113 patients with early breast cancer who had been included in a randomised trial to compare chemotherapy as an adjunct to primary surgery with adjuvant locoregional radiotherapy. The estimated rate of new primary malignancies at ten years was significantly lower (p less than 0.0003) in the chemotherapy group (1%) than in the radiotherapy group (6%). The corresponding rate among 1986 patients treated with surgery alone was 5%. Our findings suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy in early breast cancer may protect against the development of new primary tumours in the first ten years of follow-up. 
Mucin-hypersecreting tumor of the pancreas with mucin extrusion through an enlarged papilla. Patient records, imaging films, macroscopic and microscopic features, and clinical follow-up data of seven Japanese patients with a mucin-hypersecreting tumor of the pancreas were reviewed. The mucin-hypersecreting tumor was defined as an enlarged major or minor papilla with a dilated orifice and visible mucin oozing on endoscopy. The series consisted of six men and one woman ranging from 47 to 79 yr old. The excretion of mucin through a patulous orifice of the enlarged ampulla of Vater was seen in six patients and of the enlarged minor papilla in the other patient with pancreas divisum. The main pancreatic duct was dilated in all patients. Amorphous mucin was seen in the dilated duct of five patients, and papillary nodules were present in two patients. Computed tomography and/or ultrasonography showed dilatation of the main pancreatic duct with multilocular cysts in six patients and with a solid tumor in the other patient. The tumor was located diffusely in the main pancreatic duct in one patient, whereas it was confined to branches in the head (four patients), body (one patient), or tail (one patient) of the pancreas in the six other patients. Histopathologic diagnosis was a cyst lined by hyperplastic mucus-secreting epithelium in one patient, mucinous cystadenoma in two, and mucinous cystadenocarcinoma in two. Five patients underwent resection and have survived for 1-46 months after the operation. The authors would like to emphasize this endoscopic syndrome because about half of mucin-hypersecreting tumors are malignant with a favorable prognosis. 
A site-specific deletion in mitochondrial DNA of Podospora is under the control of nuclear genes. In the filamentous fungus Podospora anserina, the association of two nuclear genes inevitably leads to a "premature death" phenotype consisting of an early end of vegetative growth a few days after ascospore germination. Mycelia showing this phenotype contain a mitochondrial chromosome that always bears the same deletion. One of the break points is exactly at the 5' splice site of a particular mitochondrial intron, suggesting that the deletion event could result from molecular mechanisms also involved in intron mobility. One of the nuclear genes involved in triggering this site-specific event belongs to the mating-type minus haplotype; the other is a mutant allele of a gene encoding a cytosolic ribosomal protein. 
Does the addition of methylene blue to the sclerosant improve the accuracy of injections during variceal sclerotherapy? We evaluated the possibility that the addition of methylene blue to the sclerosant would improve the accuracy of intravariceal injections during endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. Four patients had eight sessions of endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy with a sclerosant containing a combination of 3% sodium tetradecyl and 60% renograffin. For four sessions, 1 ml of methylene blue was added to 9 ml of sclerosant. The endoscopist judged each injection to be intravariceal or paravariceal. This was confirmed by fluoroscopy. There were 57 injections (28 with methylene blue, 29 without) in the eight sclerotherapy sessions. Intravariceal injections were confirmed fluoroscopically in 64.9% of injections (60.7% with methylene blue 69% without). The endoscopist correctly assessed intravariceal versus paravariceal injections 66.7% of the time (71.4% with methylene blue, 62% without). None of the differences approached statistical significance. The addition of methylene blue to the sclerosant does not improve the accuracy of intravariceal injections or the endoscopist's ability to recognize paravariceal injections during sclerotherapy of esophageal varices. 
Neonatal skin disorders. Skin disorders are commonly seen in the neonatal period. A recent survey of neonates demonstrated that almost every neonate had some skin lesion. The most common skin findings are desquamation, Epstein's pearls, sebaceous hyperplasia, milia, toxic erythema, salmon patch, hypertrichosis, and Mongolian spot. In addition to these common cutaneous findings, other disorders may exist and are discussed in this article. 
Continuous interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells for advanced cancer: a National Biotherapy Study Group trial. We conducted a multicenter, phase II trial of continuous-infusion recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells. Patients had advanced cancer, measurable disease, and a good performance level. Treatment included a 5-day continuous infusion of 18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d of rIL-2 followed by 1 day of rest, 4 days of leukapheresis to collect cells for in vitro augmentation of cellular cytotoxicity, and 5 more days of rIL-2 infusion with reinfusion of LAK cells for 3 successive days. Therapy was repeated after 2 weeks. There were 117 patients enrolled: 63% were males, with a median age of 51 years. Eighty-two percent were managed in oncology units, and 18% were in intensive care units. Six patients died within 1 month of initiating therapy. In renal cell carcinoma, the response rate was one of 31 patients (3%), with a median survival of 10.7 months. In melanoma, the response rate was four of 33 patients (12%), with a median survival of 6.1 months. For all other histologies, response rate was three of 53 patients (5%), with a median survival of 7.4 months. All responders were asymptomatic when therapy was initiated. This trial confirms the feasibility of administering continuous rIL-2 and LAK cells outside the intensive care unit environment. Antitumor activity in melanoma was similar to that seen in multicenter trials of bolus rIL-2 and LAK cells. Activity in renal cell cancer was disappointing. 
Electrophysiologic testing. Any attempt to group clinical states according to those in which EPS is indicated and those in which EPS is contraindicated is difficult because of a considerable overlap. With this one reservation in mind, indications for EPS can be classified in three general groups. These include a group in which the procedure is helpful and frequently indicated, a group in which the procedure is occasionally of benefit but more often there is a difference of opinion among investigators as to its utility, and a third group in which EPS is rarely helpful, often contraindicated, and on occasion harmful. The clinical states and the utility of the EPS in each are summarized in Table 1. 
Development of cirrhosis after chronic type B hepatitis: a clinicopathologic and follow-up study of 46 HBeAg-positive asymptomatic patients. The rate of HBeAg clearance and the outcome were analyzed in 46 patients with asymptomatic chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection whose condition was followed for 1-4 yr (mean 2.4). Mean age was 32.5 yr (range 10-68), and 28 (61%) were males. All had chronic hepatitis, on biopsy, and were positive for HBcAg on hepatocytes. Alcoholics, homosexuals, drug abusers, immunocompromised patients, and those with advanced liver disease were excluded. During the follow-up, 25 patients (54%) cleared HBeAg and became seronegative for HBV-DNAp. The estimated annual rate of seroconversion was 26%. One patient cleared HBsAg. After seroconversion, 18 patients had no evidence of ongoing liver disease, proved by biopsy in eight and by clinical follow-up in 10 that refused biopsy. A second liver biopsy was available in 15 patients, and HBcAg was negative in all; histology was normal in eight, unchanged in one, and compatible with cirrhosis in six. All six had clinical and/or biochemical evidence of advanced liver disease. These were significantly older at the start of the study, and had chronic active hepatitis with bridging necrosis on initial biopsy. Early identification of patients with silent chronic HBV infection and high levels of viral replication for antiviral therapy could prevent transmission of the infection and stop progression to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Carcinoma of the prostate. Treating disease that has metastasized. Common manifestations of metastatic carcinoma of the prostate are bone pain, spinal cord compression, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Prostate-specific antigen represents a useful marker to monitor tumor progression and response to therapy. Until recently, no therapy was available to prolong survival in these patients. Now, the use of a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist (leuprolide acetate [Lupron]) plus an antiandrogen (flutamide [Eulexin]) to provide total androgen blockade has demonstrated a 25% increase in survival time. 
Successful angioplasty of a chronically occluded saphenous vein graft using a prolonged urokinase infusion from the brachial route. A 68-year-old man who presented with unstable angina had had cardiac bypass surgery 12 years earlier and successful angioplasty of a native circumflex lesion 18 months previously. Repeat catheterization showed a widely patent angioplasty site but interval closure of a saphenous vein graft to a large marginal branch that was totally occluded proximally. A stress test revealed significant myocardial ischemia. Severe peripheral peripheral vascular disease with known bilateral iliac artery occlusions mandated a brachial approach. Because of his high risk for repeat cardiac surgery, it was elected to attempt saphenous graft angioplasty following a prolonged urokinase infusion. After an infusion of urokinase for 36 hr, antegrade flow was restored and angioplasty was carried out successfully on a discrete mid-graft legion. Subsequent stress testing showed resolution of the ischemia. There were no vascular complications. 
Synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion for support and salvage of ischemic myocardium during elective and failed angioplasty. To determine the safety and efficacy of synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion during brief periods of ischemia, 30 patients undergoing angioplasty of the left anterior descending coronary artery were studied. Each patient underwent a minimum of two angioplasty balloon inflations. Alternate dilations were supported with retroperfusion; the unsupported inflations served as the control inflations. Synchronized retroperfusion was performed by pumping autologous femoral artery blood by means of an electrocardiogram-triggered retroperfusion pump into the great cardiac vein through a triple lumen 8.5F balloon-tipped retroperfusion catheter inserted percutaneously from the right internal jugular vein. Clinical symptoms, hemodynamics and two-dimensional echocardiographic wall motion abnormalities were analyzed. Retroperfusion was associated with a lower angina severity score (0.8 +/- 1 vs. 1.2 +/- 1) and delay in onset of angina (53 +/- 31 vs. 37 +/- 14 s; p less than 0.05) compared with the control inflations. The magnitude of ST segment change was 0.11 +/- 0.14 mV with retroperfusion and 0.16 +/- 0.17 mV without treatment (p less than 0.05). The severity of left ventricular wall motion abnormality was also significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced with retroperfusion compared with control (0.7 +/- 1.4 [hypokinesia] vs. -0.3 +/- 1.6 [dyskinesia]). There were no significant changes in hemodynamics, except in mean coronary venous pressure, which increased from 8 +/- 3 mm Hg at baseline to 13 +/- 6 mm Hg with retroperfusion. Four patients required prolonged retroperfusion for treatment of angioplasty-induced complications. The mean retroperfusion duration in these patients was 4 +/- 2 h (range 2 to 7). In the three patients who underwent emergency bypass surgery, the coronary sinus was directly visualized during surgery and found to be without significant injury. There were no major complications. Minor adverse effects were transient atrial fibrillation (n = 2), jugular venous catheter insertion site hematomas (n = 4) and atrial wall staining (n = 1), all of which subsided spontaneously. Thus, retroperfusion significantly reduced and delayed the onset of coronary angioplasty-induced myocardial ischemia and provided effective supportive therapy for failed and complicated angioplasty. 
Recurrent herpes simplex keratitis with concurrent epithelial and stromal involvement. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations. A 65-year-old man with recurrent herpetic keratitis underwent corneal transplantation for persistent nonimmunologic graft failure. Histopathologic examination of the corneal button revealed an epithelial dendrite containing Cowdry type A inclusion bodies, moderate stromal edema, and a retrocorneal fibrous membrane. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated herpes simplex virus antigens in epithelial cells bordering the dendritic defect and in stromal keratocytes. The mean width of corneal epithelium displaying herpes simplex virus-positive epithelial cells on either side of the dendritic defect measured 200 +/- 46 microns. By electron microscopy, herpesvirus particles were identified in epithelial cells lining the dendrite as well as in stromal keratocytes. Infected keratocytes were scattered throughout the stroma but were not observed subjacent to the epithelial dendrite. This study demonstrates that a recurrent epithelial dendrite can be associated with subclinical stromal infection of the graft. 
Usefulness of late coronary thrombolysis (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator) in preserving left ventricular function in acute myocardial infarction. This study assesses whether administration of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) up to 8 hours after onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) may result in a significant improvement in left ventricular function. Sixty patients were classified into 3 groups: group A (n = 21) received rt-PA within 4 hours from symptom onset; the remaining 39 patients, admitted between 4 and 8 hours, were randomized into 2 groups--group B (n = 19) received rt-PA, and group C (n = 21) was treated with conventional therapy. Coronary and left ventricular angiograms were recorded 8 to 10 days after rt-PA administration. The patency rate of the infarct-related artery was 76% in group A, and 63 and 35% in group B and C, respectively. The Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction trial perfusion grade was higher in group A and B than in group C (A vs C: p less than 0.005; B vs C: p less than 0.01). Left ventricular ejection fraction was significantly higher in group A (60.2 +/- 10%) and B (54.7 +/- 12%) compared with group C (44.2 +/- 12%) (A vs C: p less than 0.01; B vs C: p less than 0.05). Regional wall motion of the entire ischemic zone was better in group A and B than in group C (A vs C: p less than 0.001; B vs C: p less than 0.01). In contrast, the kinesis of the central ischemic zone was significantly better in group A than in both group B and C (A vs B: p less than 0.05; A vs C: p less than 0.001). 
Blood flow reactivity to hypercapnia in strictly unilateral carotid disease: preliminary results. To show relationship between degree of carotid arterial stenosis and cerebral blood flow reactivity (RES%) to induced hypercapnia, fluorine-18-fluoromethane and positron emission tomography (PET) was used to study 18 patients with carotid distribution transient ischaemic attacks (TIA), all free of stroke, who had angiographic-proven unilateral arterial disease. Non-involved carotid arteries were either normal or had non-stenotic plaque. Either normal arteries or nonstenotic ulcerations in the symptomatic carotid arteries were present in five of 18 (28%), ipsilateral carotid stenosis from 50-99% was present in eight of 18 (44%), and ipsilateral internal carotid occlusion was present in five of 18 (28%) patients. In comparison with 14 normal controls, all patients with symptomatic middle cerebral artery (MCA) flow territories had significantly lower mean (SEM) RES% [5.0' (0.2) vs 4.0 (0.9), p less than 0.04]. Symptomatic anterior borderzone (ABZ) RES% was also significantly lower [4.6 (0.4) vs 3.3 (0.9), p less than 0.04], than controls. In patient subgroup comparisons, the 50-99% stenosis subgroup clearly had the lowest MCA RES% [3.4 (0.2)] as well as the lowest ABZ RES% [2.8 (0.4)] on their symptomatic sides. Age, expired pCO2, mean arterial blood pressure, serum glucose, serum haematocrit and number, type and estimated duration of TIAs were not significantly different between subgroups. Linear regression showed a significant relationship between RES% and both measured percentage-stenosis (p = 0.04) and residual luminal diameter (p = 0.05) in symptomatic MCA territories. This approached significance in symptomatic ABZ regions. This preliminary data set suggests that unilateral carotid stenosis can and does result in impaired CO2 reactivity following hypercapnia. 
Is it time to use evoked potentials to predict outcome in comatose children and adults? OBJECTIVE: To determine the value of multimodality-evoked potential recordings in predicting outcome in comatose children. DESIGN: Prospective series and literature review. SETTING: Pediatric ICU in a university hospital. PATIENTS: Forty-one children with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of less than 8, who were admitted to the pediatric ICU between 1984 and 1989. INTERVENTIONS: Forty-one patients underwent brainstem auditory-evoked potential testing within 72 hrs of admission. Of these patients, 37 also had somatosensory-evoked potential testing at the same time. Four patients did not receive somatosensory-evoked potential testing for various nonmedical reasons. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Multimodality-evoked potential recordings were used to predict outcome in these comatose children. Outcomes were categorized as bad (death or chronic vegetative state) or good (all other outcomes). Survivor outcomes were determined at discharge and on subsequent follow-up visits from 1 to 3 yrs later. There were no false pessimistic predictions, and two false optimistic predictions in this series. A comprehensive literature review of coma outcome prediction, using multimodality-evoked potential recordings, revealed 20 series with 982 additional patients in whom the predictive errors of false optimism and false pessimism could be determined. Five cases of false pessimism and 99 cases of false optimism were identified in the 982 additional patients. If neonates are excluded, the false pessimism number is reduced to three. CONCLUSIONS: A bad outcome can be reliably predicted using multimodality-evoked potential recordings with little chance of a false pessimistic prediction. The acceptable error of false optimism occurs frequently, since patients often die of progressive neurologic and nonneurologic problems that may or may not be present at the time of the evoked potential recordings. Thus, in comatose children, multimodality-evoked potential recordings are a useful adjunct to clinical examination and other diagnostic aids in predicting outcome and in making decisions regarding the degree of intervention to offer. 
Cardiac manifestations of Weber-Christian disease: report and review of the literature. A patient with chronic systemic Weber-Christian disease who was treated with hydroxychloroquine developed cardiac dilatation with congestive heart failure. Endomyocardial biopsy demonstrated myocyte degeneration and interstitial fibrosis, but no typical features of chloroquine induced cardiomyopathy. Clinical symptoms of congestive heart failure also were recognized in 7 of the 11 reported autopsy cases of Weber-Christian disease having cardiac involvement. This involvement can affect the pericardium and the myocardium. 
Preimplantation genetics: chromosomes of fragmented human embryos. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the chromosome makeup of fragmented human embryos. DESIGN: Prospective. SETTING: Assisted reproductive technology (ART) program. PATIENTS: One hundred twenty-one poor-quality embryos from 58 patients 31 to 40 years of age admitted for an ART program were examined for chromosome makeup. RESULTS: Chromosome anomalies were observed in 31.9% (29/91) of poor-quality embryos, 19.8% (18/91) displayed mosaicism (diploid/haploid, diploid/triploid, diploid/aneuploid), 5.5% (5/91) showed polyploidy, 2.2% (2/91) had pulverized chromosomes, 2.2% (2/91) revealed aneuploidy, 1.1% (1/91) had prematurely condensed chromosomes, and 1.1% (1/91) had structural rearrangements involving chromosome number 2. The mean age of patients showing anomalies (36.5 years) was not significantly higher than the mean for the entire group (35.5 years). CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of chromosome anomalies in fragmented human embryos is high. These anomalies originate either in the gametes or through mitotic nondisjunction within the embryos. It is not advisable to replace such embryos into patients going through in vitro fertilization. 
Late follow-up of carotid endarterectomy with venous patch angioplasty. Ninety carotid endarterectomies with venous patch angioplasty were performed in 83 patients between July 1980 and December 1985. The primary indication for patching was a small-caliber internal carotid artery (ICA) with a diameter less than 3.0 mm in 54 arteriotomies (60%). Patency of the endarterectomy was evaluated by completion arteriography in all instances. Follow-up was conducted after an intermediate postoperative period of 21 +/- 12.5 months in 69 sides by arteriography. A late follow-up was conducted at 55.4 +/- 11.2 months either by arteriography (in 45 sides) or by carotid duplex scanning (in 11 sides). Twenty-one patients with 23 endarterectomies died, only 1 of a cerebral event. Seven patients moved or refused study and five were lost to follow-up. Three recurrent stenoses and five carotid occlusions developed by the time of the intermediate follow-up. By the time of late follow-up, three additional patients developed recurrent stenoses. Our results suggest that recurrent stenosis continues to develop with a longer period of follow-up in patients undergoing venous patch angioplasty with carotid endarterectomy. 
Growth-hormone releasing hormone in a bronchial carcinoid. The case is reported of a 43-year-old patient with a peripherally located bronchial carcinoid tumor containing large amounts of immunoreactive and bioactive growth-hormone releasing hormone (GHRH). Because no GHRH was found in the peripheral circulation, there was no quantitative or qualitative derangement of growth-hormone secretion. The tumor was excised completely by thoracotomy. 
Congenital biliary cysts in Indian adults. Only one report of congenital biliary cysts has been described so far from India, and that was in children. We present our experience with 22 adult Indian patients with this condition. The main presenting symptoms were abdominal pain, icterus, and fever, and the classical triad of jaundice, pain, and abdominal mass was seen in only one patient. The mean age of presentation was 25.5 +/- 10.1 yr, and females predominated (82%). Type Ia cysts (fusiform choledochal cyst) were the commonest. Intrahepatic cysts were seen in four patients; three of these were associated with extrahepatic biliary ductal cysts (type IVa). Internal drainage procedures performed elsewhere in six patients were followed by recurrent cholangitis, necessitating excision of the cyst. Hence, the preferred operation for congenital biliary cysts is cyst excision and hepaticojejunostomy. 
How to identify psychogenic disorders of stance and gait. A video study in 37 patients. Thirty-seven patients with psychogenic disorders of stance and gait were clinically evaluated, recorded on video, and analysed with regard to clinical phenomenology. Characteristic, suggestive and unspecific features were identified. Six characteristic features proved most valuable for diagnosis of psychogenesis, as they occurred alone or in combination in 97% of patients: (1) momentary fluctuations of stance and gait, often in response to suggestion; (2) excessive slowness or hesitation of locomotion incompatible with neurological disease; (3) "psychogenic" Romberg test with a build-up of sway amplitudes after a silent latency or with improvement by distraction; (4) uneconomic postures with wastage of muscular energy; (5) the "walking on ice" gait pattern, which is characterized by small cautious steps with fixed ankle joints; (6) sudden buckling of the knees, usually without falls. Seventy-three percent of patients had additional suggestive features. Classification into characteristic subtypes was not found useful because predominant features varied from patient to patient and occurred in various combinations. Factitious impairment of stance and gait was studied in 13 healthy drama students. Simulated gait dysfunction appeared less conspicuous and more difficult to diagnose than the clinical psychogenic disorders. 
Abdominal cerebrospinal fluid pseudocyst: occurrence after intraperitoneal urological surgery in children with ventriculoperitoneal shunts. Increasingly, children with ventriculoperitoneal shunts are undergoing urinary tract reconstructive surgery with bowel. The peritoneal end of the ventriculoperitoneal shunt tubing usually is exposed during the procedure, making the system vulnerable to infections and malfunction. The records of 103 myelomeningocele children with ventriculoperitoneal shunts and bowel-bladder reconstructive surgical procedures (27) were reviewed for evidence of an abdominal cerebrospinal fluid pseudocyst (6). Pseudocyst formation occurred in only 1 of 76 ventriculoperitoneal shunt patients (1.3%) who had not undergone versus 6 of 27 (22%) who had undergone an intra-abdominal procedure. The 6 children had a total of 8 pseudocysts, including 7 pseudocysts that developed 8 days to 47 months (average 15.1 months) after the reconstructive surgery and 1 that developed before reconstructive surgery. All patients had abdominal symptoms (pain or mass) or symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. Treatment included computerized tomography-guided needle aspiration or abdominal exploration with cyst evacuation and shunt repositioning or replacement. The walls of the pseudocyst were formed by matted loops of bowel. Additional shunt surgery was required in 5 patients with conversion to ventriculoatrial shunts. We conclude that the development of an abdominal cerebrospinal fluid pseudocyst is at least in part related to the prior abdominal surgery. Thus, pediatric urological and general surgeons caring for children with ventriculoperitoneal shunts should be aware of this complication. 
Mechanism of the increased ventilatory response to exercise in patients with chronic heart failure. Minute ventilation, respiratory rate, and metabolic gas exchange were measured continuously during maximal symptom limited treadmill exercise in 30 patients with stable chronic heart failure. The ventilatory response to exercise was assessed by calculation of the slope of the relation between minute ventilation and rate of carbon dioxide production. There was a close correlation between the severity of heart failure, determined as the maximal rate of oxygen consumption, and the ventilatory response to exercise. Reanalysis of the data after correction for ventilation of anatomical dead space did not significantly weaken the correlation but reduced the slope of the relation by approximately one third. These results show that the increased ventilatory response to exercise in patients with chronic heart failure is largely caused by mechanisms other than increased ventilation of anatomical dead space. This finding supports the concept that a significant pulmonary ventilation/perfusion mismatch develops in patients with chronic heart failure and suggests that the magnitude of this abnormality is directly related to the severity of chronic heart failure. 
Mania in the elderly: a 5-7 year follow-up. A 5-7 year follow-up study of elderly individuals hospitalized on an acute psychiatric inpatient service for bipolar disorder, manic phase, demonstrates that the prognosis of mania has improved in the past 30 years. A majority of those hospitalized for mania are alive and living independently 5 years after hospitalization. However, eight of 25 (32%) patients have experienced a decline in Mini-Mental State Exam score to below 24, suggesting a clinically significant cognitive disorder. Mortality rates were higher in the manic group than expected from population norms. Compared to a group of similarly aged individuals hospitalized for unipolar depression, patients with bipolar disorder had an earlier age of onset and a lesser likelihood of being rehospitalized. 
Recognition, management, and prevention of Clostridium septicum abscess in immunosuppressed patients. Spontaneous gas gangrene due to Clostridium septicum is a rapidly progressing disease that usually ends in fatal toxemia. We report three cases of asymptomatic C septicum abscesses to document the clinical course of this entity and to establish guidelines for its prevention and treatment. In contrast to previously reported data, C septicum infections can produce abscesses in solid organs, the retroperitoneum, and the extremities. These lesions often occur in patients with cancer, producing liver abscesses without gas formation that may be misinterpreted as metastatic carcinoma. Symptoms may be minimal or nonspecific before fulminant toxemia. Asymptomatic bacteremia should prompt a search for unsuspected cancer and an abscess. Computed tomography is the diagnostic modality of choice. The treatment consists of surgical debridement of necrotic tissue in concert with an appropriate course of antibiotics. We have found recurrences after adequate debridement and short-term antibiotic therapy, suggesting that prolonged and even lifelong prophylactic oral penicillin G potassium may be necessary to prevent further recurrences. 
High levels of p19/nm23 protein in neuroblastoma are associated with advanced stage disease and with N-myc gene amplification. The gene encoding a novel protein designated nm23-H1, which was recently identified as identical to the A subunit of nucleotide diphosphate kinase from human erythrocytes, has been proposed to play a role in tumor metastasis suppression. We report that untreated neuroblastoma tumors contain a cellular polypeptide (Mr = 19,000) designated p19, identified in two-dimensional electrophoretic gels, which occurs at significantly higher levels (P = 0.0001) in primary tumors containing amplified N-myc gene. The partial amino acid sequence obtained for p19 is identical to the sequence of the human nm23-H1 protein. An antibody to the A subunit of erythrocyte nucleotide diphosphate kinase reacted exclusively with p19. In this study, significantly higher levels of p19/nm23 occurred in primary neuroblastoma tumors from patients with advanced stages (III and IV) relative to tumors from patients with limited stages (I and II) of the disease. Even among patients with a single copy of the N-myc gene, tumors from patients with stages III and IV had statistically significantly higher levels of p19/nm23 than tumors from patients with stages I and II. Our findings indicate that, in contrast to a proposed role for nm23-H1 as a tumor metastasis suppressor, increased p19/nm23 protein in neuroblastoma is correlated with features of the disease that are associated with aggressive tumors. Therefore, nm23-H1 may have distinct if not opposite roles in different tumors. 
Failed in vitro fertilization of human oocytes: a cytogenetic analysis. OBJECTIVE: To investigate possible causes of in vitro fertilization (IVF) failure. DESIGN: A retrospective cytogenetic study of human oocytes divided into four groups or, alternatively, into two groups according to fertilization rates and whether the patients became pregnant or not. Two additional groups included oocytes in which there was no or only partial fertilization. SETTING: Primary treatment of infertility in an institutional practice. PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred fifty-three inseminated-unfertilized oocytes from 87 women entering the IVF program because of tubal, unknown, and male infertility. Immunological infertility was excluded. INTERVENTIONS: Ultrasound-guided transvaginal follicular aspiration. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Planned after data collection. RESULTS: The rate of chromosome anomalies did not show any significant difference among the four groups established according to the fertilization rate and between pregnant and nonpregnant patients. Independently, our data identified male factor as responsible for 41%, chromosome anomalies 19.3%, oocyte immaturity 11.8%, and unknown etiology 41% of fertilization failures (based on analysis of 161 oocytes). CONCLUSIONS: Fertilization rate and pregnancy outcome after IVF are not related to the incidence of oocyte chromosome anomalies. 
The survival of total knee arthroplasty in patients with osteonecrosis of the medial condyle. The results of total knee arthroplasty in patients with osteonecrosis of the medial femoral condyle were examined using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. The study included 32 osteonecrotic knees with an average final follow-up examination of 3.9 years. For comparison, 63 osteoarthrotic knees with an average final follow-up examination of 4.6 years were also analyzed. The survival rates were calculated using four distinct categories of failure: (1) revision, (2) revision or radiolucency, (3) revision, radiolucency, or pain, and (4) pain. On the basis of pain relief alone, the five-year postoperative success rate was 82% for osteonecrosis (eight knees) and 90% for osteoarthrosis (27 knees), with no significant statistical difference between the two groups. 
Propranolol ameliorates the development of portal-systemic shunting in a chronic murine schistosomiasis model of portal hypertension. We investigated the role of early portal hypotensive pharmacotherapy in preventing the development of portal-systemic shunting in a portal hypertensive model of chronic murine schistosomiasis induced by infecting C3H mice with 60 cercariae of Schistosoma mansoni. Propranolol was administered in drinking water to 20 animals for a period of 6 wk at a dose of 10 mg.kg-1d-1, starting at 5 wk of schistosomal infection. 32 age-matched mice with chronic schistosomal infection served as controls. All animals were studied 11 wk after the infection. Compared with controls the portal pressure (10.8 +/- 0.40 mmHg) was significantly lower (P less than 0.001) in the propranolol-treated animals (7.9 +/- 0.80 mmHg). Portal-systemic shunting was decreased by 79%, from 12.2 +/- 3.34% in controls to 2.5 +/- 0.99% in the propranolol group (P less than 0.05). Portal venous inflow was reduced by 38% in the propranolol treated animals (2.50 +/- 0.73 ml/min; n = 6) compared with controls (4.00 +/- 0.34 ml/min; n = 8; P less than 0.05). The worm burden, the granulomatous reaction, the collagen content of the liver, and the serum bile acid levels were not significantly different between the two groups of animals. These results demonstrate that in chronic liver disease induced by schistosomiasis, the development of portal-systemic shunting can be decreased or prevented by the reduction of flow and pressure in the portal system. 
Postoperative hyperbilirubinemia after resection of thoracic esophageal cancer. The rate of occurrence of postoperative hyperbilirubinemia (PHB) following esophagectomy for thoracic esophageal cancer was 67%, 115/171 cases, which was significantly higher than those following total gastrectomy (28%, 40/144 cases) and colectomy (12%, 7/59 cases). Among the operative procedures, right thoracotomy with extensive lymphoadenectomy had the highest rate of PHB (87%), perhaps due to the longest operation time and the largest intraoperative blood loss. Preoperative risk factors were glucose intolerance, reduced lymphocyte count, and poor nutritional state. The change in bile acid composition, as well as the elevation of alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, indicated the presence of postoperative cholestasis which was relevant to total parenteral nutrition. The results suggest that the development of PHB was related to the extent of surgery and the use of parenteral nutrition. 
Regional nodal failure after conservative surgery and radiotherapy for early-stage breast carcinoma. We retrospectively analyzed the likelihood of regional nodal failure (RNF) for 1,624 patients with stage I or II invasive breast carcinoma treated with conservative surgery and radiotherapy (RT) at the Joint Center for Radiation Therapy (JCRT) between 1968 and 1985. The median follow-up time was 77 months. RNF was the first site of failure for 38 of the 1,624 patients (2.3%). The incidence of axillary failure for patients undergoing axillary dissection (AXD) who were irradiated to the breast only was 2.1% (nine of 420) for patients with negative nodes and 2.1% (one of 47) for patients with one to three positive nodes. The incidence of supraclavicular failure in these two groups was 1.9% (eight of 420) and 0% (zero of 47), respectively. The incidences of axillary and supraclavicular failure in patients without clinically suspicious axillary involvement who did not have AXD but were treated with RT were 0.8% (three of 355) and 0.3% (one of 364), respectively. Despite various combinations of salvage surgery, RT, and systemic therapy, only 47% of patients (18 of 38) achieved complete regional control after nodal relapse. We conclude that RNF is uncommon in patients treated to the breast alone following an adequate AXD when the axillary nodes are negative or when one to three nodes are positive. RNF is also uncommon in patients with a clinically uninvolved axilla treated with nodal RT without AXD. Symptoms of RNF can be controlled in most but not all patients. Further study is needed to determine if the benefits of RT in preventing a small number of symptomatic RNF outweigh the potential toxicity for any subgroup of patients. 
Open, double-blind and long-term study of vigabatrin in chronic epilepsy. We performed an open, double-blind, and long-term study of vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl-GABA, GVG) in patients with treatment-resistant epilepsy who were receiving only one or at most two standard antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The novel design included a parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase that minimized the number of patients receiving placebo and allowed determination of the optimum dose of GVG for each patient before initiation of the double-blind phase. The study was divided into four phases. The first phase was a 6-week period of baseline observation. In the second phase, GVG was added openly to previous AEDs for 8 weeks. During the first 2 weeks of this phase, the dose of GVG was increased weekly and then, in the absence of adverse effects, was held constant for the next 6 weeks. At the end of this open phase, seizure frequency during the 6 weeks of constant treatment was compared with the baseline seizure frequency for each patient. Patients who experienced reduction greater than 50% in the frequency of any seizure type during the open phase were defined as responders. These responders were then entered into the third and double-blind phase, in which they were randomly allocated wither to continue active GVG treatment or placebo for 8 weeks. Thirty-three patients entered the study; 31 of 33 patients completed the initial open phase. Twenty patients achieved a reduction greater than or equal to 50% in the frequency of one or more seizure types and were eligible for the double-blind phase; 10 were randomized to continue GVG and 10 were randomized to placebo. 
Syncope and orthostatic hypotension. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the postural blood pressure response over time, the prevalence of orthostatic hypotension in patients with syncope, and the relationship of orthostatic hypotension to recurrence of symptoms. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We prospectively evaluated 223 patients with syncope in a standardized manner. Orthostatic responses were measured in a standardized fashion at 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 10 minutes or until symptoms occurred. Follow-up was obtained at 3-month intervals. Causes of syncope were assigned by predetermined criteria. RESULTS: Orthostatic hypotension (20 mm Hg or greater systolic blood pressure decline) was found in 69 patients (31%). The median time to reach minimal standing systolic blood pressure was 1 minute for all subjects. In patients with orthostatic hypotension (20 mm Hg or greater), mean time to reach minimum blood pressure was 2.4 minutes. The vast majority of patients with significant orthostatic hypotension had this finding within 2 minutes of standing. Orthostatic hypotension was common in patients for whom other probable causes of syncope were assigned. The recurrence of syncope was not related to the degree of orthostatic hypotension; however, the recurrence of dizziness and syncope as end-points was lower in patients with 20 mm Hg or greater systolic blood pressure reductions as compared with patients with lesser degrees of orthostatic blood pressure declines. CONCLUSION: Orthostatic hypotension is common in patients with syncope and is detected in the vast majority of patients by 2 minutes. Although symptom recurrence on follow-up was lower in patients with more severe orthostatic hypotension, the clinical significance of this finding needs to be further defined by future studies. 
Spinal anaesthesia for inguinal hernia repair in high-risk neonates. To avoid the high incidence of respiratory complications associated with general anaesthesia in premature neonates, 44 spinal anaesthetics for inguinal hernia repair in very low birthweight infants were administered in 47 attempts. Hyperbaric tetracaine with epinephrine 1:200,000 was administered in a dose range of 0.27-1.10 mg.kg-1. Attempted lumbar puncture failed in three infants. In 24 procedures, spinal anaesthesia alone provided satisfactory operating conditions; in 20, supplementary inhalational general anaesthesia or iv ketamine was necessary. Perioperative apnoeic episodes requiring bag/mask assisted ventilation occurred in six infants. In five infants, apnoeic spells occurred in the postoperative period. No infant required tracheal intubation; there was no haemodynamic instability. Twenty-four infants required no postoperative analgesia. Our experience suggests that spinal anaesthesia for inguinal hernia repair in very low birth weight infants reduces but does not eliminate the risk of respiratory instability, and that supplementary anaesthesia is often necessary to provide satisfactory operating conditions. 
Turcot's syndrome. Flow cytometric analysis. Turcot's syndrome is a rare, genetically transmittable disease in which patients with colonic polyposis (possibly complicated by the progression to adenocarcinoma) have malignant central nervous system neoplasms. Dominant, recessive, and sporadic cases have been described. A 26-year-old man is reported with no relevant family history who had intermittent abdominal discomfort in 1986. Sigmoidoscopy revealed numerous polyps, several of which showed carcinomatous change. Dukes' Stage C colorectal carcinoma was diagnosed. Treatment consisted of total colectomy with construction of a Koch's pouch. He remained well for 3 years until onset of headache, nausea, and vomiting. Computed tomographic scan disclosed a large, circumscribed, enhancing, right frontoparietal mass. After craniotomy and partial resection, histologic review disclosed anaplastic astrocytoma. He received cranial radiation therapy, 6000 cGy, by parallel opposed ports to the tumor bed, and carmustine 200 mg/m2 intravenously every 8 weeks. Flow cytometric DNA analysis was done on the paraffin-embedded archival material from the patient's normal colon, colonic adenocarcinoma, and anaplastic astrocytoma. DNA histograms revealed diploid distributions in all three samples. The G2/M fraction of the astrocytoma was elevated at 16%, and the S-phase fraction of the colonic adenocarcinoma was 19.4%. 
Immediate vs. delayed treatment of group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis with penicillin V. Three hundred six children with probable Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis were enrolled in a randomized double blind trial to compare the effects of immediate vs. delayed treatment with oral penicillin V. Among the 229 culture-positive patients, 111 were randomly assigned to receive penicillin V immediately and 118 to receive a placebo for 48 to 52 hours followed by penicillin V. Patients were evaluated clinically for 48 to 52 hours following initiation of treatment. The Streptozyme test was used to measure acute to convalescent antibody titer. Both regimens resulted in a greater than 92% cure rate. Early treatment was associated with significantly fewer and milder signs and symptoms on Day 3 and a significantly lower rise in the antibody titer. On the other hand we found 8 (7%) relapses and 18 (16%) early and 14 (13%) late recurrences in this group; all were significantly higher than the corresponding numbers of 2 (2%), 6 (5%) and 4 (3%), respectively, in the late treatment group. This study shows the beneficial effect of early treatment with penicillin V on the clinical course of Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis. This study also shows that delayed penicillin treatment may be associated with a lower incidence of subsequent Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis. 
Induction of nm23 gene expression in human colonic neoplasms and equal expression in colon tumors of high and low metastatic potential. Levels of expression of the murine nm23 gene inversely correlate with metastatic potential in several rodent tumor model systems. Expression of the human nm23 homologue also is lower in human breast cancers of high metastatic potential than in breast cancers of low metastatic potential. In the present study, we examined changes in nm23 expression during colon carcinogenesis as found in 18 matched pairs of normal and neoplastic human colon tissues. We found that a 0.8-kilo-base nm23 transcript was expressed in all samples of morphologically normal colon mucosa. In 16 of 18 colon neoplasms, nm23 expression was further increased in the neoplastic, compared with the morphologically normal, colon mucosa from the same individual. Expression of nm23 was elevated over normal mucosa in 3 of 3 polyps, in 2 of 3 nonmetastatic cancers, and in 11 of the 12 cancers that were metastatic at the initial presentation. The levels of nm23 expressed were similar in the 12 metastatic colon neoplasms and in the 6 colon neoplasms of lower clinical stage. In addition, nm23 expression was maintained in culture in each of 12 cell lines initiated from human colon neoplasms and did not differ between lines established from neoplasms of high or low metastatic capability. We concluded that nm23 was expressed in normal colon mucosa. Expression of nm23 increased during early stages of colon carcinogenesis and remained increased in metastatic colon cancer. Therefore, in the colon, tissue-specific events dissociate nm23 expression from loss of tumor metastatic competence. 
Biliary pancreatitis. Operative outcome with a selective approach. To evaluate the efficacy of a selective approach to biliary pancreatitis, we reviewed the outcomes in 276 consecutive patients undergoing operations for this diagnosis during a 7-year period. Initial conservative therapy resulted in elective operations in 63% and urgent operations in 37%. Only 10 patients (3.6%) required primary pancreatic operations, 50% of them as emergencies. The proportion of common duct surgical explorations fell from 70% of those operated immediately after hospital admission to 20% by the third hospital day. Overall mortality was 1.8% but was increased to 30% in patients having an initial pancreatic operation. We conclude that a selective approach to biliary pancreatitis allows the operation to be performed electively in most patients and is associated with a low mortality and an acceptable length of stay. Most common duct stones pass spontaneously permitting cholecystectomy alone. 
The heterogeneity of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). III. The occurrence and biological and immunological activities of nicked hCG. Nicks, or missing peptide linkages, have been found in hCG beta-subunit between residues 44 and 45 and between residues 47 and 48. We examined the occurrence and biological and immunological activities of nicked hCG. As shown by sequence analysis, CR127 standard hCG is approximately 20% nicked, half at beta 44-45 and half at beta 47-48. Treatment with human leukocyte elastase increased the extent of nicking of CR127 standard hCG. The longer the incubation of CR127 standard with human leukocyte elastase (0, 2, and 21 h), the greater the extent of nicked hCG (20%, 46%, and 89%). As the extent of nicking increased, the receptor-binding ability diminished, as did the ability to stimulate progesterone production by rat corpus luteal cells in vitro (0.9, 0.74, and 0.29 microgram/microgram hCG, respectively). In a regression analysis, a linear relationship was indicated between the extent of nicking and receptor binding values (97% correlation) and between the extent of nicking and steroidogenic activity in vitro (99% correlation). From the intercepts of the regression lines, it was estimated that nicks reduced receptor binding by 11-fold and reduced the steroidogenic activity of hCG by 5-fold. We examined eight individual hCG preparations, three purified from pregnancy urine, three from urine from patients with hydatidiform mole, and two from urine from women with choriocarcinoma. In descending order, the eight individual hCG preparations were 100%, 100%, 85%, 76%, 42%, 41%, 0%, and 0% intact. Although no correlation was observed between the percent intact and the ability of the eight individual samples to displace 50% [125I]hCG in binding CG/LH receptor (r less than 0.5), a close correlation was noted between the percent intact and the steroidogenic activity in vitro (98% correlation). This separated the effects of nicking on receptor binding and steroidogenic activities and indicated that while multiple factors influence receptor binding, only nicking suppresses the steroidogenic activity of bound hCG. We examined the recognition of nicked hCG molecules by different hCG immunoassays. The Hybritech Tandem assay measured total hCG and did not distinguish nicked and intact hCG molecules (in a regression analysis, immunoactivity vs. percent intact hCG, r less than 0.5). In contrast, the immunometric assay using B109 hCG dimer-specific monoclonal antibody and anti-beta-peroxidase only detected the intact component of hCG (in a regression analysis, immunoreactivity vs. percent intact hCG, 98% correlation). We used these assays together to estimate the percentage of intact hCG and to deduce the extent of nicking.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Sodium channel density in hypomyelinated brain increased by myelin basic protein gene deletion. Trophic control over the expression and membrane distribution of voltage-dependent ion channels is one of the principal organizing events underlying the maturation of excitable cells. The myelin sheath is a major structural determinant of regional ion channel topography in central axons, but the exact molecular signals that mediate local interactions between the oligodendrocyte and axolemma are not known. We have found that large caliber fibre pathways in the brain of the mutant mouse shiverer (shi, gene on chromosome 18), whose developmental fate of myelination is averted by deletion of five exons in the myelin basic protein gene, have a striking excess of sodium channels. As cytoplasmic membranes of shiverer oligodendroglia still adhere to axons, the evidence indicates that myelin basic protein or a myelin basic protein-dependent glial transmembrane signal associated with compact myelin formation, rather than a simple glial-axon contact inhibition or an intrinsic genetic program of neuronal differentiation, could be critical in downregulating sodium channel density in axons. Here we use the shiverer mutant to show that mature central nervous system projection neurons with large caliber unmyelinated fibres sustain functional excitability by increasing sodium channel density. This axon plasticity, triggered by the absence of a single glial protein, contributes to the unexpectedly mild degree of neurological impairment in the mutant brain without myelin, and may be a potentially inducible mechanism determining the recovery of function from dysmyelinating disease. 
Cholestatic liver reaction during heparin therapy. Three patients are reported who developed liver enzyme abnormalities of a cholestatic pattern, without jaundice, after 10-28 d of heparin treatment. The values normalized within 4 months in all patients. Thus heparin should be added to the list of drugs that may cause a cholestatic liver reaction. 
Acute thrombosis of the renal transplant artery: a case report and review of the literature. Acute thrombosis of the renal transplant artery is a known but unusual complication of renal transplantation usually occurring in the first month. Reported here is a case of acute renal artery thrombosis in a well functioning long-term renal allograft in which there was clear angiographic evidence of a normal renal artery two years earlier. 
Autoimmune MRL-1 pr/1pr mice are an animal model for the secondary antiphospholipid syndrome. Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus often develop thrombosis, recurrent abortion, thrombocytopenia and neurological disease, in association with serum antibodies against phospholipids, termed the secondary antiphospholipid syndrome. In our search for an animal model for the human antiphospholipid syndrome, we examined the MRL-1pr/pr mouse, which develops a lupus-like illness. These mice were found to have significantly elevated levels of serum antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) and thrombocytopenia compared to normal mice. By immunodiffusion, these antibodies are similar to human aPL. We observed histologic evidence of central nervous system thromboses as well as perivascular infiltrates of the choroid plexus. The high titers of serum aPL, thrombocytopenia, and thrombosis establish this strain as an animal model for the secondary antiphospholipid syndrome. 
Massive acute arsenic poisoning. A 28-year-old male ingested 75 g of arsenic trioxide in a successful suicide attempt. The presentation, management and postmortem findings are presented and discussed. 
Hypercarbic periodic breathing during sleep in a child with a central nervous system tumor. A 4-yr-old girl with a ganglioglioma involving the cerebellum and pons presented with CO2 retention and arterial O2 desaturation during wakefulness and sleep. Despite the presence of a regular respiratory pattern during wakefulness, NREM sleep was associated with the appearance of a sustained periodic respiratory pattern characterized by clusters of usually two breaths separated by an 8 to 10-s expiratory pause. At sleep onset, this Biot's respiratory pattern appeared immediately after a sigh. Breathing frequency during NREM sleep became regular with administration of supplemental O2 and an attendant increase in end-tidal CO2. Shortly after withdrawal of supplemental O2 during NREM sleep, the periodic pattern resumed and was again immediately preceded by a sigh. The observations during NREM sleep in this patient with a central nervous system abnormality indicate that Biot's type respiratory pattern may be reversed by administration of supplemental oxygen. The results in this patient suggest: (1) the presence of a very elevated CO2 apnea threshold, and (2) that the pons may play a role in determining the effect of hypercapnic hypoxia on respiratory pattern during sleep. 
Pseudopathologies of hemostasis and dental surgery. Values of hemostasis tests are grossly abnormal in persons with factor XII deficiency, dysfibrinogenemia, the lupuslike anticoagulant, and pseudothrombocytopenia, yet these persons do not usually bleed spontaneously or even after surgery. We reviewed the records of 66 patients with laboratory diagnosis of one of the aforementioned abnormalities to determine whether they bled excessively after challenges to hemostasis such as dental extractions. Only three of them bled excessively, but two of these had other concomitant causes that could explain bleeding. Hence the dentist should not give up dental extractions or other surgical procedures when results of hemostasis tests are grossly abnormal, because these are not necessarily associated with abnormal hemostasis. Obviously, the correct interpretation of abnormal hemostasis values warrants close collaboration and reciprocal consultation between the dentist and the hematologist. 
Benign cartilaginous tumors of the upper airway. Benign cartilaginous neoplasms of the laryngotracheal apparatus are uncommon clinical entities. Two cases of cartilaginous lesions of the upper airway are reported. Resection with maintenance of upper airway structural integrity is the preferred treatment. Temporary tracheostomy is often necessary and can provide access for stenting of the tracheal repair. 
Toxic oil syndrome: a current clinical and epidemiologic summary, including comparisons with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. In the spring and summer of 1981, an epidemic of a new illness now referred to as the toxic oil syndrome occurred in central and northwestern Spain, resulting in some 20,000 cases, 12,000 hospital admissions and greater than 300 deaths in the 1st year of the epidemic. The initial onset of illness was usually acute, and patients presented primarily with a respiratory syndrome involving cough, fever, dyspnea, hypoxemia, pulmonary infiltrates and pleural effusions. While approximately 50% of patients recovered from this acute phase of the illness without apparent sequelae, the remaining patients developed an intermediate or chronic phase, or both, of illness involving severe myalgia, eosinophilia, peripheral nerve damage, sclerodermiform skin lesions, sicca syndrome, alopecia and joint contractures, among other findings. Epidemiologic and analytic chemical studies have clearly linked the toxic oil syndrome to the ingestion of oil mixtures containing rapeseed oil denatured with aniline. However, the precise identity of the etiologic agent within this oil has never been determined. Aniline itself did not cause the illness, but the causal agent may be a reaction product of aniline with some oil component. Although many aspects of disease activity in the involved patients have lessened with time, the ultimate consequences of their disease are not clear and are the subject of ongoing study. The recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in the United States clinically resembles the toxic oil syndrome. 
Metastatic carcinoma of prostate 23 years after radical prostatectomy. Carcinoma of the prostate may present with metastatic disease many years after treatment. We present a patient with adenocarcinoma of the prostate, "cured" by radical perineal prostatectomy in 1962, with the first signs of metastases presenting in 1985. This emphasizes the importance of long-term follow-up of patients with prostate carcinoma. 
Headaches in adolescents. Diagnosis and management. A thorough history, general physical examination, neurologic evaluation, and charting of the temporal pattern of the headache will allow the correct diagnosis to be made under most circumstances. Laboratory testing is tailored to the specific headache syndrome. Psychological factors are important in all forms of adolescent headache and should be evaluated in each and every case. Once the correct diagnosis has been made, a comprehensive approach to the patient's problems, medical and psychological, will usually result in improvement. 
Acute effect of percutaneous transluminal mitral commissurotomy on QT interval: possible role of afterload in contraction-excitation feedback. Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for pulmonary or aortic stenosis results in QT prolongation, a finding supporting the presence of contraction-excitation feedback in man. Though afterload reduction alters the QT interval, the effect of changes in preload on ventricular repolarization is yet unknown. To test whether diastolic stretch modified ventricular repolarization, the change in the QT interval was determined in 15 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal mitral commissurotomy (PTMC) for mitral stenosis. After successful PTMC, the QT interval was prolonged in five, shortened in two, and was unchanged in eight patients, but the mean QT interval in 15 patients did not change (406 +/- 31 msec versus 412 +/- 40 msec, p = NS). However, linear regression analysis revealed a strong correlation between changes in the QT interval and those in systemic vascular resistance (r = -0.83, p less than 0.01). These data indicated that changes in the QT interval after PTMC were small compared with those seen with valvuloplasty for pulmonary or aortic stenosis, and were dependent on afterload but not on preload. 
Minimal resection for bronchogenic carcinoma. An update. Minimal resection with curative intent was performed for 24 patients with stage I bronchogenic carcinoma at our institutions over a 12-year period. This was usually done for patients who could not tolerate more extensive resections. The five-year actuarial survival rate was 65 percent. The rate of local recurrences was 13 percent (3/24), and the rate of distant recurrences was 17 percent (4/24), with a median follow-up of 38 months. Survival and recurrence rates are similar for patients undergoing minimal resection and those being reported for patients undergoing more extensive resections for stage I bronchogenic carcinoma. In selected patients, minimal resection should be considered as an acceptable alternative treatment for patients with stage I bronchogenic carcinoma. 
Activation by the protein-bound polysaccharide PSK (krestin) of cytotoxic lymphocytes that act on fresh autologous tumor cells and T24 human urinary bladder transitional carcinoma cell line in patients with urinary bladder cancer. PSK, a protein-bound polysaccharide Kureha, was tested for its ability to modulate the cytotoxicity of lymphocytes that act on autologous tumor cells and T24 human urinary bladder tumor cells in urinary bladder cancer patients in a 6-h 51Cr release assay. In vitro treatment of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) with PSK for 18 hours resulted in an augmentation or induction of cytotoxicity against relatively resistant T24 cells in previously reactive and nonreactive cases, respectively. The PSK-treated PBL were able to kill more effectively tumor cells that were freshly isolated from the same cancer patients than non-treated PBL. The effects of PSK were noted with PBL as well as tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and with PSK at concentrations of 10 to 100 micrograms./ml., while PSK at higher doses reduced their lytic activities. The addition of PSK to the assay at the same concentrations also enhanced the cytotoxicities. Autologous tumor killing (ATK) activities of both large granular lymphocytes (LGL) and T lymphocytes were enhanced by PSK. Treatment of PBL with PSK did not effect on the proportion of PBL binding to the tumor cells, while it augmented the cytotoxic activity. Cell-free supernatant of PSK-stimulated lymphocyte culture did not contain any detectable amounts of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-2 (IL-2). In addition, anti-IFN-alpha monoclonal antibody (MAb), anti-IFN-gamma MAb and anti-IL-2 MAb did not inhibit PSK-induced augmentation of cytotoxicity against T24. Oral administration of PSK (three gm./day) to patients with urinary bladder cancer daily for seven days before operation resulted in an augmentation of the cytotoxicity against T24 cells in five out of 10 patients and no change of the cytotoxicity in the other five patients. ATK activity was also enhanced by oral administration of PSK in three out of five patients. These results indicate that the antitumor activity of PSK may be in part mediated through activation of tumor killing system independent of IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma and IL-2. 
Ubiquitin in motor neuron disease: study at the light and electron microscope. Several neurodegenerative diseases, including motor neuron disease (MND), are characterized by formation of abnormal cytoskeleton-derived inclusions which contain ubiquitin (Ubq). We have studied the distribution of Ubq in 26 cases of MND with light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. Ubiquitin-positive inclusions were found in neurons of anterior horns in most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) but were not present in other forms of MND. Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was observed in 10-15 nm intraneuronal filaments, which were not stained by antibodies to neurofilaments, and on dense bodies of dystrophic neurites throughout the neuropil of anterior horns and pyramidal tracts. Data analysis showed a trend toward lower percentage of Ubq-positive neurons in cases with longer duration of illness or lower number of neurons. A high percentage of Ubq-positive inclusions occurred in cases with an aggressive clinical course, suggesting that ubiquitination takes place at early stages of the disease. 
Painful tic convulsif caused by a contralateral vertebral artery. The case of trigeminal neuralgia and ipsilateral hemifacial spasm--painful tic convulsif--is presented. Microsurgical exploration revealed compression of the fifth and seventh cranial nerves by a tortuous contralateral vertebral artery. Neurovascular decompression of the roots entry/exit zone completely relieved preoperative facial pain and spasm. 
Acquired aphasia, dementia, and behavior disorder with epilepsy and continuous spike and waves during sleep in a child. Severe persistent neuropsychological disorders sometimes develop in the course of a focal epilepsy of unknown origin in previously normal children. Very frequent bilateral focal or generalized discharges are often noted on the sleep EEG records of these patients with no evidence of clinical seizures. The relation between these paroxysms and the observed deterioration remains unclear. We report a child with a partial complex epilepsy and severe disturbances of language, cognition, and behavior acquired in the early years of development who was followed for 15 years. A correlation between the evolution of the striking EEG abnormalities during sleep and the neuropsychological disorders could be established retrospectively. The observed sequence of onset and recovery of the aphasia, the dementia, and the "psychotic" behavior makes a direct causal relation between the deficits quite unlikely. Rather it suggests an association of independent symptoms with a specific language disorder becoming manifest in the course of the evolution. This child shows many of the main characteristics of the syndromes of "acquired aphasia with convulsive disorder" (Landau-Kleffner syndrome) and "epilepsy with continuous spike waves during sleep." Both syndromes describe probably different facets of a similar underlying, still unexplained cerebral dysfunction. 
Progressive vs single-stage treadmill tests for evaluation of claudication. The reliability of claudication pain and the metabolic and hemodynamic measurements of the lower limbs of patients with stable peripheral vascular occlusive disease (PVOD) were compared during and following single-stage (S) and progressive (P) treadmill tests. Ten patients (69.8 +/- 1.8 yr; X +/- SE) walked to maximal claudication pain twice a month for 4 months. Patients walked at 1.5 mph up a 7.5% grade (S test) and at 2 mph on a 0% grade, increasing by 2% every 2 min (P test). Distance walked to the onset of claudication pain (CPD) and maximal walking distance (MWD) were recorded. Foot transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2) was measured before, during, and after exercise, while ankle systolic blood pressure (SBP) and the ankle-to-brachial SBP index (ABI) were measured before and after exercise. Intraclass correlation coefficients (R) of CPD and MWD during S tests were R = 0.53 and R = 0.55, respectively. In contrast, the respective R values during P tests were R = 0.89 and R = 0.93. Higher R values of foot TcPO2 were also obtained during and following P tests, while ankle SBP and ABI were highly reliable following both tests. It is concluded that the severity of PVOD is better assessed by P treadmill tests because clinical measurements are more reliable during exercise and recovery. 
Low-dose chemotherapy with central nervous system prophylaxis and zidovudine maintenance in AIDS-related lymphoma. A prospective multi-institutional trial. OBJECTIVE.--To ascertain if low-dose multiagent chemotherapy, with central nervous system prophylaxis and antiretroviral therapy, might be associated with increased efficacy and decreased risk of intercurrent infection in patients with malignant lymphoma related to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). DESIGN.--A phase II prospective clinical trial, with median follow-up of 33 months. SETTING.--Eight university hospitals, within the context of the AIDS Clinical Trials Units, sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. PATIENTS.--Forty-two patients with AIDS-related malignant lymphoma. All were evaluable for toxicity assessment, and 35 for response. INTERVENTION.--A low-dose modification of the M-BACOD regimen (day 1): cyclophosphamide, 300 mg/m2 intravenously (IV); doxorubicin, 25 mg/m2 IV; vincristine sulfate, 1.4 mg/m2 IV; bleomycin, 4 mg/m2 IV; dexamethasone, 3 mg/m2 orally on days 1 through 5; methotrexate, 500 mg/m2 IV on day 15, with leucovorin rescue. Intrathecal cytosine arabinoside (50 mg) to all on days 1, 8, 21, and 28, with radiation therapy to a helmet field to those with central nervous system involvement. Zidovudine for 12 months after completion of four to six cycles of chemotherapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--Response rate and number of opportunistic infections. RESULTS.--Response rate was 51% with a complete response of 46%. Of 16 complete responses, relapse occurred in four, none isolated to the central nervous system. Opportunistic infections occurred in 21% of those receiving treatment. Median duration of survival among all 42 patients is 5.6 months, 6.5 months in 35 patients evaluable for response, and 15 months in patients with complete response. Lower concentration of CD4 cells, history of prior AIDS, bone marrow involvement, and stage IV disease were independently associated with decreased survival. CONCLUSIONS.--Low-dose chemotherapy with central nervous system prophylaxis and zidovudine maintenance may be associated with durable remissions in AIDS-related lymphoma with fewer opportunistic infections than noted in prior reports. 
Testolactone, sulindac, warfarin, and vitamin K1 for unresectable desmoid tumors. Ten patients with large inoperable desmoid tumors in various body locations were treated with testolactone. Four tumors (40%) responded with major regressions, i.e., more than 50% reduction in volume. Eight patients received nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (indomethacin, sulindac, or sulindac with warfarin and vitamin K1 [Mephyton]) for periods of 2 to 91 months. There was one major regression, one partial regression, and three instances of tumor growth arrest over periods up to 8 years. Seven patients were treated with nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs concurrent with or after testolactone or tamoxifen. There were five major regressions and one partial regression with extensive central necrosis of an enormous intra-abdominal tumor. The last patient has been treated for only 12 months, with no change in tumor volume. It appears that estrogens function as growth factors for desmoid tumors, and that minimization of these effects inhibits tumor growth in some, but not all, cases. In those instances where antiestrogens were not effective as single agents, the tumors usually responded to subsequent nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drug therapy. Withdrawal of estrogen may be followed by inhibition of transcription of genes that support tumor cell proliferation, and sulindac and indomethacin may augment these effects by inhibiting prostaglandin and cyclic AMP synthesis and the activity of protein kinase C. Warfarin may function as a protonophore to acidify the cytoplasm and prevent the alkalinization that is necessary to initiate DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression, again an impairment of the transcription process. 
Perioperative stroke. Part II: Cardiac surgery and cardiogenic embolic stroke. The major mechanism of stroke in cardiac surgery is embolization. The risk is higher in intracardiac than in extracardiac surgery. The incidence of stoke associated with CABG is about 5%. The cerebral protective properties of isoflurane and thiopentone, acid-base management, and monitoring of cerebral perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass are discussed. Prophylactic carotid endarterectomy for patients with asymptomatic carotid disease before cardiac surgery is not necessary. Symptomatic carotid disease increases the risk of stroke, and the management of patients who have both symptomatic coronary and carotid artery diseases is discussed. Cardiogenic embolism is probably responsible for many perioperative strokes. Patients with atrial fibrillation, valvular disease, and prosthetic heart valves are at high risk of cardiogenic embolism. Strokes associated with cardioversion, pacemaker insertion, coronary arteriography and angioplasty are explored. 
Managing common dental problems and emergencies. This article discusses the more common oral and dental emergencies that children and adolescents may present to a physician. Many of these problems represent true emergencies that require immediate treatment or referral, whereas others are more common and less critical problems perceived by the child's parents as needing immediate attention. The problems presented in this article fall into three general areas: gingival and soft-tissue-related problems; problems related to teeth; and traumatic injuries to the teeth, their roots, and supporting structures. 
Streptococcal toxic shock associated with septic abortion. The group A streptococcus is capable of producing exotoxins that have been linked to a toxic shock-like syndrome. Streptococcal toxic shock is a rapidly progressive disease associated with injury to multiple organ systems and a 30-60% mortality rate. We present a case of a 40-year-old woman who developed group A streptococcal toxic shock following a spontaneous abortion. She required surgical debridement, pulmonary artery catheterization, mechanical ventilation, and massive transfusions. Clinicians must be aware of the presentation of this disease, as its incidence appears to be increasing. 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with solid tumors without acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) developed in two patients with solid tumors without acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In patients with neoplastic solid tumors, as in those with hematologic malignancies, Pneumocystis is a possible cause of pneumonia. Management protocols evaluating pulmonary infiltrates in this patient population must include tests for PCP. 
Oropharyngeal flora and chest infection after upper abdominal surgery. The oropharyngeal flora was determined before and after operation in 127 patients undergoing upper abdominal surgery. Swabs of the oropharynx were obtained on the day before operation and on the first, third, and fifth postoperative days. Isolation of Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and coliforms was noted. In the 108 patients with the full series of throat swabs the incidence of oropharyngeal colonisation by H influenzae was 16% and was unchanged after operation. S pneumoniae was present in only 5.6 (six patients) before operation and the incidence fell to 1.9% (two patients). There was a transient rise in coliform colonisation postoperatively. Twenty four patients developed a chest infection. In eight a bacterial cause was established, in six H influenzae and in two S pneumoniae. There was a significant relation between the carriage of H influenzae before operation and development of a chest infection. H influenzae was also found more often in cigarette smokers. The presence of S pneumoniae or coliform organisms before surgery was not related to the development of infection. The high incidence of postoperative chest infection in cigarette smokers appears to be due in part to preoperative colonisation of the oropharynx by H influenzae. 
Delayed recovery of muscle pH after short duration, high intensity exercise in malignant hyperthermia susceptible subjects Six subjects susceptible to malignant hyperthermia (MHS) and seven control subjects exercised for 4 min at 120% of their calculated maximal oxygen uptake on a bicycle ergometer. Mean (SEM) muscle pH, measured with a needle-tipped electrode in the vastus lateralis muscle, decreased from a resting value of 7.16 (0.04) to 6.78 (0.04) after exercise in the control group, and from 7.15 (0.05) to 6.56 (0.05) in the MHS group (P less than 0.01 compared with control group). A further decrease in muscle pH to 6.68 (0.06) by 5 min after exercise occurred in the control group, followed by incomplete recovery to 7.06 (0.04) 30 min after exercise. In the MHS group, however, muscle pH decreased to 6.45 (0.05) 5 min after exercise before recovering slowly to only 6.64 (0.07) after 30 min (P less than 0.01 compared with control group). There was no difference in muscle temperature, venous pH or venous lactate concentrations between the two groups. The results show that there is abnormal recovery of muscle pH after short-duration, high-intensity exercise in MHS subjects. 
Cognitive and mood-state changes in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. In this paper the cognitive and psychiatric impairments associated with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and related disorders are reviewed. It is concluded that while acute mononucleosis and infection with Epstein-Barr virus occasionally result in impaired cognition, such changes have not yet been objectively verified in patients with CFS. However, when patients with CFS are carefully studied, concurrent or premorbid psychiatric disorders are revealed at a greater than chance level. Finally, some suggestions are offered regarding improved neuropsychological assessment of fatigue, concentration, and attention for patients with CFS. The findings to date, while suggesting that psychological predisposition may play a role in the expression of CFS, are still inconclusive regarding the etiology of CFS. 
Fracture line in post head injury optic nerve damage. Diminution of vision following head injuries involving the optic canal is not uncommon. In order to find out how a blunt trauma to the frontotemporal region produced damage to the optic nerve in its canalicular portion, this study was conducted on cadaveric skulls and its results are described. 
Optic neuropathy and central nervous system disease secondary to Sjogren's syndrome in a child. The authors describe a 10-year-old girl in whom optic neuropathy and central nervous system (CNS) disease developed in association with primary Sjogren's syndrome. There was angiographic evidence of cerebral vasculitis and multiple infarcts present on neuroimaging. Results of parotid biopsy, cerebrospinal fluid, and serologic analyses showed abnormalities that were consistent with the diagnosis of Sjogren's syndrome. Although the patient had optic disc pallor on initial evaluation, her color vision and acuity improved with immunosuppressive therapy, as did her other neurologic symptoms. The authors believe this represents the first reported case of optic neuropathy and CNS disease associated with primary Sjogren's syndrome in the pediatric population. The possibility of improvement in visual function with early institution of immunosuppressive therapy makes prompt diagnosis essential. 
Differentiation of 3T3-L1 fibroblasts to adipocytes induced by transfection of ras oncogenes. Mammalian 3T3-L1 cells differentiate into adipocytes after continuous exposure to pharmacological doses of insulin or physiological doses of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1). Expression of transfected ras oncogenes led to differentiation of these cells into adipocytes in the absence of externally added insulin or IGF-I. Cells transfected with normal ras genes or the tyrosine kinase trk oncogene did not differentiate. Transfection with a dominant inhibitory ras mutant resulted in inhibition of differentiation. Exposure of untransfected 3T3-L1 cells to insulin stimulated formation of the active Ras.GTP complex. These observations indicate that Ras proteins participate in signal transduction pathways initiated by insulin and IGF-I in these cells. 
Murine tumor cells transduced with the gene for tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Evidence for paracrine immune effects of tumor necrosis factor against tumors. Studies of the anti-tumor activity of TNF-alpha in vivo have been hampered by the need to administer systemically toxic doses of the cytokine to obtain a curative response. To facilitate studies of the effect of high local concentrations of TNF-alpha on tumor growth and host immunity, a newly induced murine sarcoma was transduced with the gene for human TNF-alpha and the biologic characteristics of these cells were examined. We identified high and low TNF-producing tumor clones which exhibited stable TNF secretion over time. Significant amounts of membrane associated TNF were found in a high-TNF producing clone as well. No difference in the in vitro growth rates between TNF-producing and nonproducing cell lines was observed. In contrast, in vivo studies demonstrate that although unmodified parental tumor cells grew progressively when implanted s.c. in animals, tumor cells transduced with the TNF gene were found to regress in a significant number of animals after an initial phase of growth. This effect correlated with the amount of TNF produced and could be blocked with a specific anti-TNF antibody. Regressions of TNF-producing cells occurred in the absence of any demonstrable toxicity in the animals bearing these tumors. TNF-producing tumor cells could function in a paracrine fashion by inhibiting the growth of unmodified, parental tumor cells implanted at the same site. The ability of tumor cells to regress was abrogated by in vivo depletion of CD4+ or CD8+ T cell subsets and animals that had experienced regression of TNF-producing tumors rejected subsequent challenges of parental tumor. Our studies thus show that tumor cells elaborating high local concentrations of TNF regress in the absence of toxicity in the host and that this process requires the existence of intact host immunity. Studies of the lymphocytes infiltrating the gene modified tumors and attempts to use TNF gene modified tumor infiltrating lymphocytes to deliver high local concentrations of TNF to the tumor site without inducing systemic toxicity are underway. 
Cutaneous manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection. Part I. The prevalence of dermatologic problems during the course of human immunodeficiency virus infection makes knowledge of these skin manifestations imperative to all practicing dermatologists. Detection of early infection is encouraged as effective therapy now exists both to delay the progression of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunodeficiency and to prevent opportunistic infections. Skin manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection discussed in this article include the following groups: neoplastic, ie, Kaposi's sarcoma, lymphoma, and squamous cell carcinoma; infectious, ie, viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoal, and arthropod infestations; and a miscellaneous group including papulosquamous, papular, vascular, autoimmune, oral, and drug-related skin disorders. 
Congenital muscular dystrophy: brain alterations in an unselected series of Western patients. The typical form of congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) described in Western countries is generally considered different from its Japanese variant because of the absence of CNS involvement. Evaluations from both a clinical and a neuroradiological point of view were made of the CNS functions of 12 unselected Western children affected by CMD. In five patients, clinical observation and intelligence tests showed a mild to severe mental retardation. One of these patients suffered also from a severe form of epilepsy. In the same five patients, various degrees of white matter hypodensity, ventricular enlargement and cerebral atrophy were also detected. Similar neuroradiological abnormalities were also found in five of the seven children who did not have clinical symptoms or signs of CNS involvement. In one of these cases, necropsy neuropathological examination showed the gyral anomalies characteristic of the Japanese type of CMD. This study clearly indicates the high frequency of subclinical CNS alterations in typical Western CMD, suggesting that it should be considered a type of myoencephalopathy like its Japanese counterpart. 
A phase II study of weekly 24-hour infusion with high-dose fluorouracil with leucovorin in colorectal carcinoma. Twenty-two patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma were enrolled in this study. Ten patients had received prior chemotherapy that included the combination of fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LV). All patients required subcutaneous port insertion and portable external infusion pumps to allow outpatient treatment. 5-FU (2,600 mg/m2) was administered concurrently with LV (500 mg/m2) over 24 hours of continuous infusion. The mean steady-state plasma concentration of 5-FU was 10 mumol/L (range, 7 to 14 mumol/L). The 5-FU dose was based on our previous phase I study, in which maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of 5-FU was determined to be 2,600 mg/m2 in combination with a fixed dose of LV at 500 mg/m2. The treatment was repeated weekly. Twenty-two patients received a total of 560 courses of treatment. Eleven instances of grade 2-3 toxicity were observed: diarrhea (five), stomatitis (three), hand/foot syndrome (three). The overall objective response was 45% (10 of 22) and among previously untreated patients was 58%. Three of the responders achieved complete response (CR), with lung and liver as the metastatic sites. The median duration of survival for the previously untreated patients was not reached at 22 months, and was 10 months for the previously treated patients. These results suggest that short-term infusional therapy of 5-FU and LV in patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer generates acceptable toxicity, with equivalent or superior survivability in previously treated and untreated patients versus alternative methods of administration of the two agents. 
Sulindac causes regression of rectal polyps in familial adenomatous polyposis. In familial adenomatous polyposis, sulindac-induced polyp regression has been reported by several authors. In this study, the goal was to confirm these results by a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover study in 10 patients with rectal polyps that had been previously treated by colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis. Patients received sulindac, 300 mg/day, or placebo during two 4-month periods separated by a 1-month wash-out phase. One patient was not compliant and was excluded. With sulindac, the authors observed a complete (6 patients) or almost complete (3 patients) regression of the polyps. With placebo, the authors observed an increase (5 patients), no change (2 patients), and a relative decrease (2 patients) in the number of polyps. The difference between sulindac and placebo was statistically significant (P less than 0.01). In biopsy specimens of polyps and normal rectal mucosa of 6 patients, the authors conducted an immunohistochemical study of the cellular proliferation index using the Ki 67 monoclonal antibody (Ki 67 index), at the beginning and at the end of each treatment period. They were not able to show a sulindac-induced modification of the Ki 67 index. The authors conclude that sulindac is effective in inducing the regression of rectal polyps in familial adenomatous polyposis. 
Adenosine increases sympathetic nerve traffic in humans. BACKGROUND. Adenosine is an effective hypotensive agent in experimental animals and in anesthetized patients, producing little if any evidence of reflex sympathetic activation. In contrast, adenosine increases systolic blood pressure and heart rate in conscious subjects. To determine whether this response is related to sympathetic activation, we studied the cardiovascular and respiratory effects of adenosine in normal subjects while measuring muscle sympathetic nerve traffic through direct recordings from a peroneal nerve. METHODS AND RESULTS. Adenosine (80 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) increased heart rate (+32 +/- 3 beats/min), systolic blood pressure (+10 +/- 2 mm Hg), and minute ventilation (+7 +/- 1 l/min). This was accompanied by a dose-dependent increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (from 198 +/- 52 to 451 +/- 92 units/min). Adenosine also produced a small, but consistent, decrease in diastolic blood pressure (-6 +/- 3 mm Hg). Adenosine produced a greater increase in sympathetic nerve traffic (145 +/- 32% above baseline) than did nitroprusside (65 +/- 16%) at doses that resulted in equivalent decreased in diastolic blood pressure. Arterial baroreceptor unloading, therefore, could not totally explain the increase in sympathetic traffic produced by adenosine. CONCLUSIONS. Given the constellation of findings of increased ventilation and sympathetic activity, we, therefore, propose that adenosine increases sympathetic tone by activating afferent nerves, including arterial chemoreceptors. Contrary to the known inhibitory actions of adenosine on central and peripheral efferent systems, this and other reports suggest that adenosine-induced activation of afferent nerves, leading to sympathetic activation, may be a more widespread phenomenon than previously recognized. 
Development of a new in vivo model for head and neck cancer. We have developed an improved model for studying in vivo nonsurgical treatment of head and neck cancer. In situ oral cavity implantation has been documented, but its natural history is not defined. In light of this, an improved model is described. Forty-two nude mice had tumor cells from one of two established laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell lines implanted into the floor of the mouth. The tumor mass was measured and followed. When the tumor burden was great enough to cause cachexia, the animals were killed and submitted for microscopic examination. Pulmonary metastases were noted in 44%, bone invasion in 80%, angioinvasion in 76%, and soft tissue invasion in 96% of the animals. Growth characteristics in the head and neck have not been documented in previous models. Our model not only exhibits the locally invasive activity typically associated with malignant neoplasms, but also closely parallels the results of clinical studies examining the percent of end stage patients and autopsies with pulmonary metastases. Therefore, this model should open the way for more meaningful in vivo studies of nonsurgical treatment modalities for both local and metastatic tumor foci in head and neck cancer. 
Cystic duct cholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. At present, there is no consensus regarding the routine use of intraoperative cholangiography during cholecystectomy. We describe a reliable technique for performing cystic duct cholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Using this technique, we were able to cannulate the cystic duct in 97% of patients, completely visualize the biliary tree and duodenum in 93% of patients, and identify unsuspected choledocholithiasis in 3% of patients. Treatment options for the management of choledocholithiasis demonstrated by cholangiograms during laparoscopic cholecystectomy include conversion to an open cholecystectomy and common duct exploration, or endoscopic sphincterotomy and common duct stone extraction following laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
Yersinia terminal ileitis: sonographic findings in eight patients. To determine the sonographic features of Yersinia terminal ileitis, we analyzed the sonograms of eight patients with acute terminal ileitis. Bacteriologic or serologic confirmation of Yersinia enterocolitica infection was available in six patients. In the other two, the clinical course and radiologic findings were compatible with the diagnosis. Radiographs and endoscopy showed edematous mucosa with small elevations in the terminal ileum in all the patients. Sonograms showed thickening of the wall of the ileum in all eight patients and enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes in six patients. Although the number of the patients is small, our experience suggests that sonography can be useful for the detection of acute terminal ileitis caused by Yersinia. 
Short-term oral zinc supplementation does not improve chronic hepatic encephalopathy. Results of a double-blind crossover trial. The effect of short-term oral zinc supplementation (zinc sulfate 600 mg/day) on hepatic encephalopathy, was assessed in a double-blind, crossover trial. Fifteen cirrhotic patients with stable, chronic hepatic encephalopathy were randomized to receive either oral zinc or a placebo for 10 days. Following a two-week washout period, these were crossed over to the alternate treatment. Conn's index, which comprises the evaluation of the mental state, asterixis, number connection test, EEG record, and plasma ammonia, was used to score the degree of hepatic encephalopathy, both at the beginning and end of each treatment period. Serum zinc was significantly raised after oral zinc administration and reached the levels observed in cirrhotics without hepatic encephalopathy. Despite this, however, no modification in the parameters included in Conn's index were observed. In conclusion, this study failed to confirm that short-term oral zinc supplementation improves chronic hepatic encephalopathy. 
Arthrodesis of the knee with an intramedullary nail. The cases of twenty patients who had an arthrodesis in which an intramedullary nail was used for stabilization were reviewed at an average follow-up of six years. The predominant indications were infection after total knee arthroplasty and post-traumatic pain and instability. Other indications included aseptic loosening of the components of a total knee arthroplasty, reconstruction after resection of a giant-cell tumor, non-union of a fracture of the distal part of the femur or the proximal part of the tibia, and failed external-compression arthrodesis. Success was achieved in seventeen patients (85 per cent), and functional stability immediately postoperatively was gained in all twenty. Of the three patients in whom the arthrodesis failed, all had sustained an intraoperative fracture, and infection eventually developed. Of the twelve nails that were secured to the greater trochanter with a loop of stainless-steel wire, none showed evidence of proximal migration. Of the eight nails that were not thus secured, two migrated proximally, necessitating removal of the nail. Two drawbacks to this operation are the long duration and the large amount of blood that is lost. The major advantage is that a high percentage of patients have progression to a stable fusion despite serious problems. Furthermore, all but seven patients (including the six who had a tumor or who had sustained an intraoperative fracture) were able to bear full weight by the second postoperative week. Only a few patients needed an external support for walking. 
Immunoprecipitation of membrane proteins from rat basophilic leukemia cells by the antiganglioside monoclonal antibody AA4. In previous studies, mAb AA4 inhibited IgE binding, induced rapid morphologic changes, and blocked histamine release in rat basophilic leukemia (RBL-2H3) cells. It bound to two novel derivatives of ganglioside GD1b (Ag I and Ag II) that appear to be present only in rat mast cells. The present study demonstrates the importance of gangliosides Ag I and Ag II for binding of mAb AA4 to intact cells. We also investigated the presence of gangliosides Ag I and Ag II and proteins immunoprecipitated with mAb AA4 in the parental and four variant cell lines. In comparison with the parental RBL-2H3, two variant cell lines had very low (0.5% and 2.0%) and two others had intermediate levels (9% and 18%) of 125I-AA4 binding. mAb AA4 inhibited 125I-IgE binding to the parental RBL-2H3 cells and to only one variant with intermediate amounts of gangliosides Ag I and Ag II. Therefore, there are variations in the proximity of these gangliosides to the high affinity IgE receptor (Fc epsilon RI) among different cell lines. mAb AA4 immunoprecipitated proteins of 50 to 60, 120, and 135 kDa from 125I-surface labeled cells. These were different from the subunits of Fc epsilon RI. The amount of gangliosides Ag I and Ag II in cell extracts correlated with the number of mAb AA4 binding sites on the cell surface and with the quantity of proteins precipitated from the different cell lines. Thus, these membrane proteins appear to be associated with gangliosides Ag I and Ag II. The binding of mAb AA4 to the surface gangliosides could induce intracellular changes through transmembrane signaling by these proteins. 
Borrelia burgdorferi-associated cutaneous B cell lymphoma: clinical and immunohistologic characterization of four cases. Four patients with low-grade malignant B cell lymphoma of the skin in association with chronic Borrelia burgdorferi infection are presented. Plaque-shaped or nodular erythematous lesions with ill-defined borders were seen. Clinical progression was slow; the skin tumors occurred for up to 7 to 15 years. Extracutaneous involvement was found in only one case. Immunohistologic investigations showed an expression of B cell markers with restriction to only one light chain type and absence of T cell antigens. The growth fraction was 5% to 30%, as shown with the monoclonal antibody Ki-67. The immunoarchitecture of the tumors in three patients was unusual compared with established criteria for cutaneous B cell lymphoma and revealed similarities to mucosa-associated B cell lymphoma. Some immunohistologic heterogeneity may indicate the development of monoclonal proliferation that originated from different phases of B lymphocytic differentiation. In three cases no clinical signs of B. burgdorferi infection were found; in one patient acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans was present. The occurrence of acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and malignant lymphomas was frequently reported in the European literature before B. burgdorferi was recognized. These findings suggest a relation between B. burgdorferi infection and cutaneous B cell lymphoma. In geographic regions where infected ticks are present, borreliosis should be considered in patients with cutaneous B cell lymphoma. 
Subacute bilateral coronary ostial stenoses following cardiac catheterization and PTCA. Accelerated coronary ostial stenosis is an infrequent late complication of coronary artery catheter instrumentation during aortic valve surgery, PTCA, or coronary angiography. We report the first case of bilateral coronary artery ostial stenoses developing after cardiac catheterization and right coronary artery PTCA. In patients with worsening angina following cardiac catheterization or PTCA, accelerated ostial stenoses should not be over-looked in the differential diagnosis. 
Epileptogenic effect of hypoxia in the immature rodent brain. The response to cerebral hypoxia/ischemia may be different in the neonate compared to other age groups. An in vivo model was developed in the rat to determine whether there are age-dependent differences in the effects of hypoxia on electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. EEG recordings were obtained from Long Evans hooded rats deprived of oxygen at five ages: postnatal days 5 to 7, 10 to 12, 15 to 17, 25 to 27, and 50 to 60. Oxygen concentration was varied from 0, 2, 3, and 4% between animals. EEGs were recorded in all animals before, during, and at 1 hour after exposure to the hypoxic condition and at 1 to 7 days afterward in a subset of animals. All animals were deprived of oxygen until the onset of apnea and bradycardia to 20 to 40% of baseline heart rate values. Hypoxia resulted in isoelectric EEG significantly more frequently in the animals deprived of oxygen at postnatal days 25 to 27 and 50 to 60 than in the younger age groups. A highly significant effect was that the animals deprived at postnatal days 5 to 17 revealed a high incidence of epileptiform EEG activity during hypoxia. In contrast, the older animals exhibited only rare isolated EEG spikes before reaching an isoelectric EEG. The severity of hypoxia-induced epileptiform EEG changes was highest in the animals subjected to moderately hypoxic conditions (3% and 4% oxygen) at postnatal days 10 to 12. Furthermore, epileptiform changes persisted for hours to days following prolonged episodes of hypoxia in the younger animals. This study demonstrates a unique response of the immature brain to exhibit epileptiform activity during hypoxia. 
Endoscopic and videofluoroscopic evaluations of swallowing and aspiration. A new procedure for evaluating oropharyngeal dysphagia utilizing fiberoptic laryngoscopy was compared to the videofluoroscopy procedure. Twenty-one subjects were given both examinations within a 48-hour period. Results of the fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES) and videofluoroscopy examinations were compared for presence or absence of abnormal events. Good agreement was found, especially for the finding of aspiration (90% agreement). The FEES was then measured against the videofluoroscopy study for sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. Sensitivity was 0.88 or greater for three of the four parameters measured. Specificity was lower overall, but was still 0.92 for detection of aspiration. It was concluded that the FEES is a valid and valuable tool for evaluating oropharyngeal dysphagia. Some specific patients and conditions that lend themselves to this procedure are discussed. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors improve contractile function of stunned myocardium by different mechanisms of action. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors enhance contractile function of myocardium "stunned" by a brief episode of coronary artery occlusion, yet their mechanism(s) of action remain unresolved. In addition to possible hemodynamic effects, ACE inhibitors may stimulate the synthesis of cardioprotective prostaglandins. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of ACE inhibitors that contain a sulfhydryl group may be due in part to the ability of thiol compounds to act as nonspecific antioxidants or direct scavengers of cytotoxic oxygen-derived free radicals. To investigate this question we compared the effects of (1) the sulfhydryl-containing ACE inhibitor zofenopril, (2) the sulfhydryl-containing stereoisomer of captopril (SQ 14,534) with essentially no ACE inhibitor properties, (3) the nonsulfhydryl-containing ACE inhibitor enalaprilat, and (4) solvent alone, given at the time of reperfusion, on recovery of contractile function after 15 minutes of coronary occlusion in the anesthetized open-chest dog. Segment shortening in control animals remained depressed or "stunned" after reperfusion, recovering to only -5 +/- 12% of baseline preocclusion values at 3 hours after reperfusion. In contrast, all three treatment agents attenuated postischemic dysfunction: segment shortening was restored to 33 +/- 12%, 54 +/- 6%, and 83 +/- 5% of baseline values at 3 hours after reflow in dogs treated with SQ 14,534 (p less than 0.05), zofenopril (p less than 0.01), and enalaprilat (p less than 0.01), respectively (all vs control value). These improvements in segment shortening did not appear to be the result of altered oxygen supply or demand after reperfusion, inasmuch as no significant differences in systemic hemodynamic parameters or myocardial blood flow were observed among the groups. In the second phase of the study, we found that the improved contractile function associated with enalaprilat treatment could largely be reversed by infusion of the potent cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin: segment shortening was reduced from 69 +/- 12% at 2 hours after treatment/reperfusion to 38 +/- 12% at 2 hours after indomethacin infusion (p less than 0.01 vs 2 hours after reperfusion). Infusion of indomethacin had no effect, however, on the improved contractile function associated with zofenopril treatment. We therefore conclude that sulfhydryl- versus nonsulfhydryl-containing agents enhance contractile function of stunned myocardium by different mechanisms of action: enalaprilat attenuates postischemic dysfunction at least in part by a prostaglandin-mediated mechanism, whereas the salutary effects of zofenopril and SQ 14,534 may be due in part to the antioxidant properties of the sulfhydryl moiety. 
Relation between skin cancer and HLA antigens in renal-transplant recipients BACKGROUND. Recipients of renal allografts are at an increased risk for skin cancer. It is also known that recipients who are homozygous for HLA antigens are at an increased risk for certain cancers, as are those who are mismatched with their donors for these antigens. In a case-control study we assessed the relation between skin cancer in renal-transplant recipients and HLA homozygosity and mismatching. METHODS. Of 764 patients who received renal transplants between 1966 and 1988, 66 had squamous-cell carcinoma or basal-cell carcinoma of the skin after transplantation. HLA homozygosity was assessed in all 66 recipients, and HLA mismatching in 39; the results were compared with those in 124 recipients without skin cancer. We also investigated the relation between skin cancer and the use of immunosuppressive drugs. In separate case-control analyses we investigated the influence of exposure to the sun and keratotic skin lesions on the risk of skin cancer. RESULTS. The risk of squamous-cell carcinoma was increased in recipients mismatched for HLA-B antigens; the relative risks were 2.6 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 6.5) and 5.0 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.3 to 19.0) with mismatching for one and two antigens, respectively, as compared with no mismatching. Mismatching for HLA-A or HLA-DR antigens had no effect on the risk of squamous-cell carcinoma, and there was no association between mismatches at any of the HLA loci and the occurrence of basal-cell carcinoma. The total doses of azathioprine and prednisone were not associated with the occurrence of skin cancer or with HLA matching. Exposure to sunlight and keratotic skin lesions were strongly associated with skin cancer but not with HLA mismatching. Homozygosity for HLA-DR was more frequent among the patients with squamous-cell carcinoma (relative risk, 2.5; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.95 to 4.6) and among patients with 100 or more keratotic skin lesions (relative risk, 4.8; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 15.1). CONCLUSIONS. HLA-B mismatching is significantly associated with the risk of squamous-cell carcinoma in renal-transplant recipients, as is HLA-DR homozygosity. An indirect effect on the level of immunosuppression does not appear to explain these findings, nor does exposure to sunlight or the number of keratotic skin lesions account for this observation. 
The peroxisome and the eye. Several childhood multisystem disorders with prominent ophthalmological manifestations have been ascribed to the malfunction of the peroxisome, a subcellular organelle. The peroxisomal disorders have been divided into three groups: 1) those that result from defective biogenesis of the peroxisome (Zellweger syndrome, neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, and infantile Refsum's disease); 2) those that result from multiple enzyme deficiencies (rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata); and 3) those that result from a single enzyme deficiency (X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, primary hyperoxaluria type 1). Zellweger syndrome, the most lethal of the three peroxisomal biogenesis disorders, causes infantile hypotonia, seizures, and death within the first year. Ophthalmic manifestations include corneal opacification, cataract, glaucoma, pigmentary retinopathy and optic atrophy. Neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile Refsum's disease appear to be genetically distinct, but clinically, biochemically, and pathologically similar to Zellweger syndrome, although milder. Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata, a peroxisomal disorder which results from at least two peroxisomal enzyme deficiencies, presents at birth with skeletal abnormalities and patients rarely survive past one year of age. The most prominent ocular manifestation consists of bilateral cataracts. X-linked (childhood) adrenoleukodystrophy, results from a deficiency of a single peroxisomal enzyme, presents in the latter part of the first decade with behavioral, cognitive and visual deterioration. The vision loss results from demyelination of the entire visual pathway, but the outer retina is spared. Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 manifests parafoveal subretinal pigment proliferation. Classical Refsum's disease may also be a peroxisomal disorder, but definitive evidence is lacking. Early identification of these disorders, which may depend on recognizing the ophthalmological findings, is critical for prenatal diagnosis, treatment, and genetic counselling. 
Five-hour balloon inflation to resolve recurrent reocclusion during coronary angioplasty [published erratum appears in Cathet Cardiovasc Diagn 1991 May;23(1):71] A 63-year-old male presented with an acute inferior myocardial infarction with initial clinical reperfusion following thrombolysis. Due to recurrent reocclusion, emergency catheterization was performed, demonstrating a 90% stenosis in the mid right coronary artery. Angioplasty was complicated by multiple reocclusions, ultimately requiring 5-h autoperfusion balloon inflation to maintain patency. 
Factors affecting perioperative pulmonary function in acute respiratory failure. To determine the magnitude, duration, and associated factors of perioperative changes in pulmonary function, we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 145 patients who required preoperative mechanical ventilation for acute respiratory failure before undergoing 200 surgical procedures. Patients were grouped into five pulmonary diagnostic categories: (1) adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (n = 49); (2) pneumonia (n = 20); (3) atelectasis (n = 65); (4) congestive heart failure (n = 11); and (5) acute ventilatory failure (n = 55). Sixty patients underwent intra-abdominal surgery, 135 patients required surgery on the periphery, and five patients had a thoracotomy. For all patients, PaO2/FIO2 declined significantly from 321 mm Hg (mean) preoperatively to 258 mm Hg intraoperatively, and shunt fraction (Qs/QT) increased from 0.16 to 0.23 without a significant change in PaCO2. The magnitude of the increase in Qs/QT did not differ among pulmonary diagnostic groups. Preoperatively, patients undergoing laparotomy had lower PaO2/FIO2 (278 vs 340) and higher Qs/QT (0.19 vs 0.14) than patients requiring surgery on the periphery. Intraoperatively, Qs/QT increased more during abdominal procedures than during peripheral procedures. Intraoperative hypoxemia (PaO2/FIO2 less than 80 mm Hg) occurred during 13 procedures. Hypoxemic patients had a mean increase in Qs/QT of 0.20 (0.25 preoperatively to 0.45 intraoperatively), and a significant increase in PaCO2 from 38 mm Hg to 45 mm Hg intraoperatively). In general, these patients had ARDS (n = 10), sepsis (n = 10), a laparotomy (n = 9), and intraoperative mechanical ventilation via the Ohio Anesthesia ventilator (n = 8), a commonly used operating room ventilator. Their preoperative peak airway pressure (54 cm H2O) and minute ventilation (20 L/min) requirements exceeded the capabilities of the Ohio Anesthesia ventilator and likely contributed to impaired gas exchange intraoperatively. Within the first several hours postoperatively, PaO2/FIO2 recovered to preoperative levels in all patients, even in those who had severe intraoperative hypoxemia develop and who underwent laparotomy. We conclude that most patients with acute respiratory failure receiving preoperative mechanical ventilation experienced mild-to-moderate deterioration in intraoperative pulmonary oxygen exchange that rapidly returned to preoperative levels after surgery. We recommend that necessary surgery not be postponed by concern that pulmonary function will be worsened by surgery and anesthesia. 
Factors relevant to preventing embolic stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation. Whether or not to treat patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation with anticoagulants to prevent embolic stroke is a dilemma for physicians. If randomized trials, currently underway, demonstrate a beneficial effect, the dilemma will not be solved because not all of the relevant factors can be addressed by trials. We used current knowledge about non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation and a method of obtaining patient-derived weights for avoiding stroke from eight medically trained subjects, to determine the overall benefit of anticoagulants and to see what factors were relevant and what effect each might have in deciding whether to use anticoagulant therapy. Using standard assumptions, anticoagulants gave an expected benefit for all subjects. The expected benefit (expressed in terms of lives per 1000 saved due to anticoagulants) varied between 5.4 and 46.7. This benefit remained for all subjects when we did a sensitivity analysis for different rates of stroke prevented by anticoagulants and different rates of intracranial hemorrhage caused by anticoagulants. When we used different baseline rates of stroke and different impacts of major hemorrhagic complications the benefit disappeared for 3 and 4 subjects respectively. We found the factors that were most crucial to the decision will not be included in randomized trials; the weight that an individual would place on avoiding embolic stroke vs the risk of intracranial bleeding from anticoagulant therapy; and the rate of embolic stroke that could be expected for the subject at risk. Factors which will be measured in randomized trials, will change results less substantially: the increased risk of major hemorrhages; the proportion of strokes that could be prevented by treatment; the increase in risk of intracranial hemorrhage. This method of analysis suggests that for most patients anticoagulants are beneficial and that the most important factor in determining this result is the value that subjects put on different outcomes. 
Exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia in association with a myocardial bridge. Sustained ventricular tachycardia induced by exercise is uncommon. This is a report of a patient who has a positive exercise test at a high level of exercise. The electrocardiogram has classic ischemic ST depressions. Following the appearance of these ST depressions, the patient developed ventricular tachycardia at a rapid rate. Workup that included an echocardiogram and cardiac catheterization revealed myocardial bridging of the left anterior descending artery as the only structural abnormality. Electrophysiologic studies revealed the patient to have ventricular tachycardia only with isoproterenol (Isuprel) infusion. 
The opacity of portal hypertension-related ascites correlates with the fluid's triglyceride concentration. To determine if an elevated triglyceride concentration can explain the opacity of some cirrhotic ascites specimens, the authors measured triglyceride concentration by Coulter DACOS (Hialeah, FL) on 133 paired serum and ascitic fluid specimens. The specimens were categorized as clear or cloudy by coded visual inspection. In addition, the ascitic fluid specimens were inspected for a lipid supernatant after 48 hours of refrigeration at 4 degrees C. The ascitic fluid triglyceride concentration of the 87 clear specimens was 1.9 +/- 1.0 mmol/L compared with 7.0 +/- 4.6 mmol/L for the opalescent specimens (P less than 0.001). Only 17% of the clear specimens demonstrated any lipid layer after refrigeration, compared with 94% of opalescent specimens (P less than 0.001). The triglyceride concentrations were not significantly different between the serum samples obtained from patients with clear compared with opalescent ascites. The opacity of portal hypertension-related ascites appears to be related to the triglyceride concentration of the fluid. 
Porencephalic cyst: a complication of fetal intravascular transfusion. A case of unilateral porencephalic cyst as a result of intravascular intrauterine transfusion is reported. Although other factors may have contributed, fetal bradycardia and relative hyperviscosity as a result of increased fetal hematocrit value were considered to be related to this event. Because some authors recommend direct intravascular transfusion to supraphysiologic hematocrits to prolong the interval between procedures, we would caution the use of this approach on the basis of theoretic considerations and the occurrence of this complication. 
A single-blind comparison of intravenous ondansetron, a selective serotonin antagonist, with intravenous metoclopramide in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy Ondansetron (GR 38032F), a selective antagonist of serotonin subtype 3 receptors, is effective in the prevention of emesis associated with cisplatin as well as other chemotherapeutic agents. In this randomized, single-blind, multicenter, parallel group study, we compared the efficacy and safety of intravenous (IV) ondansetron with IV metoclopramide in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with high-dose (greater than or equal to 100 mg/m2) cisplatin chemotherapy. Three hundred seven patients receiving their first dose of cisplatin, either alone or in combination with other antineoplastic agents, were randomized to receive ondansetron 0.15 mg/kg IV every 4 hours for three doses or metoclopramide 2 mg/kg IV every 2 hours for three doses, then every 3 hours for three additional doses. The study prohibited the concurrent administration of other antiemetics or dexamethasone. Patients receiving ondansetron had a higher rate of complete protection from emesis (40% v 30%, P = .07), a higher complete plus major response rate (65% v 51%, P = .016), a lower rate of failure (21% v 36%, P = .007), and a lower median number of emetic episodes (one v two, P = .005) than did those receiving metoclopramide. The median time to the first emetic episode was longer on ondansetron (20.5 v 4.3 hours, P less than .001). Adverse events occurred in 48% of patients receiving ondansetron and 69% of those receiving metoclopramide (P less than .001). Akathisia and acute dystonic reactions occurred only on metoclopramide; headache (controlled with acetaminophen) was significantly more frequent with ondansetron. Ondansetron is more effective, produces fewer adverse events, and is easier to administer than metoclopramide for the prevention of emesis associated with high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy. 
Intraarterial portography with gadopentetate dimeglumine: improved liver-to-lesion contrast in MR imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging during arterial portography (MRAP) was performed by the authors in a selected group of 12 patients with hepatic lesions. A low dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine (4 mL of a 0.5-mol/L solution, corresponding to a dose of 0.05-0.07 mmol/kg) was injected into the superior mesenteric artery during acquisition of breath-holding gradient-echo or rapid acquisition spin-echo images. Images were always acquired during the first passage of gadopentetate dimeglumine through the liver parenchyma. An increase in liver-to-lesion contrast was obtained with MRAP imaging (contrast-to-noise ratio = 8 +/- 1.8 vs 19 +/- 2.7). Signal intensity enhancement of the liver was high (signal-to-noise ratio = 9.48 +/- 2.42), while the lesion presented no significant enhancement (signal-to-noise ratio = 0.55 +/- 0.22). Lobar portal vein thrombosis was detected in one patient owing to lack of enhancement of the left lobe of the liver. No side effects related to administration of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents were observed. This new technique provides specific enhancement of liver parenchyma with improved liver-to-lesion contrast. 
Improved detection of hypotension by automated noninvasive blood pressure monitoring. This study was undertaken to determine whether the use of automated noninvasive blood pressure monitoring altered the frequency of detection of intraoperative hypotension. We retrospectively reviewed 1,861 anesthetic records from a period in 1987, when blood pressure was obtained manually by auscultation. We compared the records from 1987 with 1,716 anesthetic records from 1989, when automated blood pressure monitors were used universally. The incidences of hypotension requiring vasopressor therapy were determined during the two periods and compared using Student's two-tailed t test. The data revealed that the incidence of detected hypotension increased from 2.4 to 5.2% with the use of automated blood pressure monitors (P less than 0.00002). We conclude that at our hospital the use of automated noninvasive blood pressure monitors increases the incidence of detection of intraoperative hypotension as compared with the use of manual blood pressure measurement. 
Mucinous carcinomas of the colon and rectum. An analysis of 62 stage B and C lesions. The significance of a large extracellular mucinous component in colorectal adenocarcinomas continues to be controversial. We studied 62 stage B and C mucinous carcinomas defined by 60% or greater mucinous component. Sixty of these patients had matched nonmucinous adenocarcinoma controls. Patients with mucinous carcinomas with a residual adenoma had a significantly greater survival than those who did not. Overall, no difference was noted in 5-year survival between patients with mucinous carcinoma and nonmucinous adenocarcinoma (64% each). However, when the stages were considered separately, patients with stage B mucinous carcinoma fared significantly worse and had more local sites of treatment failure. We speculate that patients with stage B mucinous carcinoma may have a worse prognosis owing to the extra-cellular mucin, which may make a complete surgical extirpation more difficult. 
Urokinase-type plasminogen activator is expressed in stromal cells and its receptor in cancer cells at invasive foci in human colon adenocarcinomas. In this study in situ hybridization methods were used to examine biopsy samples from 13 adenocarcinomas of the colon for the presence of mRNA for the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) and its specific cell-surface receptor (u-PAR). In all cases, u-PA mRNA was present in fibroblastlike cells in the stroma adjacent to the invasive tumor nodules. Urokinase-type plasminogen activator mRNA was not detected in the malignant cells. All specimens also contained u-PAR mRNA in cells located at the tumoral-stromal interface of invasive foci, but in contrast at least some of these cells were in all but one case identified as being of malignant origin. Stromal cells, probably tumor-infiltrating macrophages and neutrophils, also were positive in these areas. These results support the view that components of the plasminogen activation system may act to influence proteolytic events occurring at the interface between stroma and malignant cells in adenocarcinomas of the colon in humans. 
Mechanisms of tubulointerstitial fibrosis. With regard to tubulointerstitial fibrogenesis we are left with a variety informational gaps regarding nearly all aspects of this clinically important process. Table 2 summarizes a generalized version of fibrogenesis based primarily on investigations in other organs. Extrapolation of data obtained with other fibrogenic systems is useful, but only in so far as it motivates us to adapt and test many of the experimental principles within in the context of the kidney. This begins with a comprehensive examination of the in vivo state, the establishment of adequate animal models, and the dissections of the process in vitro. Key areas for the future are the characterization of the signals involved, the cellular responses to these signals, and the variations in interactions produced by differing inciting fibrogenic conditions. 
A case of gastric plasmacytoma: genetic analysis and immunofixation electrophoresis. A case of early gastric plasmacytoma in a 66-yr-old woman is reported. The demonstration of monotypic IgM lambda immunoglobulin in plasma cells infiltrating the gastric antrum contributed the histological diagnosis. Genetic analysis of the tumor cells confirmed the presence of a monoclonal neoplastic population of plasma cells in the tumor. Monoclonal immunoglobulin (IgM lambda) was demonstrated in serum, not by conventional immunoelectrophoresis, but by a highly sensitive immunofixation electrophoresis technique. Serum monoclonal immunoglobulin disappeared after subtotal gastrectomy. The value of immunofixation electrophoresis of serum protein and DNA analysis of tumor cells was emphasized for the diagnosis of gastric plasmacytoma. 
The selenium-75-homocholic acid taurine test reevaluated: combined measurement of fecal selenium-75 activity and 3 alpha-hydroxy bile acids in 211 patients. The recommended reference values for the selenium-75-homocholic acid taurine (75SeHCAT) test, used in the analysis of chronic diarrhea, were evaluated in 211 patients by comparing simultaneous measurements of 3 alpha-hydroxy bile acids and 75Se activity in daily collected stools. An initial evaluation in 11 patients showed that the fecal collection method, which allows inspection and additional analysis of stools, was equivalent to the abdominal retention method. Selenium-75-HCAT whole-body retention half-life (WBR50) was greater than 2.8 days in less than 10% of the patients with bile acid malabsorption and less than 1.7 days in less than 10% of the normals. We recommend that a 75SeHCAT WBR50 less than 1.7 days is abnormal, a WBR50 greater than 2.8 days is normal, and a WBR50 in the range 1.7-2.8 days is equivocal, which was the case in 48% (94/195) of the patients in this study. 
A randomized comparative study of laser photocoagulation, heater probe, and bipolar electrocoagulation in the treatment of actively bleeding ulcers. A randomized study was performed to compare the efficacy of Nd:YAG laser, heater probe, and bipolar electrocoagulation in the treatment of active bleeding from peptic ulcers. Nine hundred and forty-eight consecutive patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding underwent endoscopy and 91 patients with active bleeding from peptic ulcer were randomized to receive laser (N = 30), heater probe (N = 31), and bipolar electrocoagulation (N = 30). The angulation of the probe to the ulcer base was assessed at endoscopy. The three treatment groups were comparable in their clinical and endoscopic characteristics. There was no significant difference among patients treated with laser, heater probe, and bipolar electrocoagulation in the rate of re-bleeding (10%, 19.4%, and 10%), duration of hospital stay (4, 4, and 5 days), and proportion requiring emergency surgery (7%, 13%, and 7%), but the cost per patient was higher with laser than heater probe and bipolar electrocoagulation. The angulation of the probe to the ulcer base did not affect the re-bleeding rate. No complication was reported. We conclude that the three modalities were equally effective and safe in endoscopic hemostasis but because bipolar electrocoagulation and heater probe were cheaper, they were recommended for use. 
Exaggerated radiation-induced fibrosis in patients with systemic sclerosis. Four patients with stable systemic sclerosis and limited skin involvement received radiation for the treatment of solid malignant neoplasms. Following localized irradiation, each patient developed an exaggerated cutaneous and internal fibrotic reaction in the irradiated areas. The surface area of fibrosis extended beyond the radiation portals employed, and the fibrotic process was poorly responsive to antifibrotic therapy. Three of the patients died of complications caused by fibrous encasement of internal organs. The extent and severity of postradiation fibrosis in these patients was distinctly unusual. These observations suggest that patients with systemic sclerosis are particularly susceptible to developing excessive radiation-induced fibrosis. 
Case report: epidural and bilateral retroorbital hematomas complicating sickle cell anemia. Early in the course of a painful crisis, a 19-year-old man with known sickle cell anemia (SCA) developed a clinical picture that resembled either early cavernous sinus thrombosis or retroorbital and bifrontal microinfarcts. A brain computer tomography scan demonstrated bilateral retroorbital hemorrhages along with a left frontal epidural hematoma. In the absence of trauma, thrombocytopenia, or any other detectable hemostatic defect, this type of hemorrhagic manifestation in the setting of SCA has not, to our knowledge, been previously reported in the literature. 
Periodic mammographic follow-up of probably benign lesions: results in 3,184 consecutive cases. The author prospectively evaluated the value of periodic mammographic surveillance among 3,184 consecutive cases of nonpalpable, probably benign breast lesions detected with mammography. Follow-up consisted of four mammographic examinations during a 3- or 3.5-year period. Clinical outcome was ascertained in each case after the study period, whether or not patients complied with the protocol. Probably benign lesions were subsequently found to be malignant in 17 cases (positive predictive value for cancer, 0.5%). Fifteen of the 17 cancers were identified by means of interval mammographic change prior to development of a palpable mass; all 17 were stage 0 or stage 1 tumors. All 17 women who had cancer currently show no evidence of tumor recurrence (median duration of follow-up, 5 years). These results should help establish the validity of managing mammographically detected, probably benign lesions with periodic mammographic surveillance. By decreasing the number of biopsies of benign lesions and thereby substantially reducing costs, this approach may help overcome a major barrier to widespread use of mammographic screening. 
Gastric H+,K(+)-ATPase as a therapeutic target in peptic ulcer disease. The presence of unbuffered acid appears to be an essential contributory factor in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease. Treatment has concentrated therefore on the reduction of acidity, and the last decade has seen the widespread and effective use of H2 antagonists. They are, at low doses, more successful in improving the natural history of duodenal ulcer disease than of gastric or esophageal ulceration. The H2 receptor plays a central role in activation of parietal cell acid secretion, and antagonists at this receptor block most (but not all) of the acid secretion due to even gastrinergic or muscarinic (vagal) stimulation. In hypergastrinemic states such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, or where acid secretion has to be inhibited by more than 20% over a 24-hr period, such as for treatment of esophagitis, NSAID damage, or gastric ulcers, the dose and frequency of administration of the currently available antagonists must be increased to achieve reliable therapy. This has led to a search for an alternative target for acid inhibitory drugs, such as the gastric acid pump, the H+,K(+)-ATPase. This article focuses on the function of this ATPase and suggests that inhibition of this pump will provide a more efficacious means of reduction of acid secretion by the stomach, hence improving and simplifying therapy of acid related diseases. 
IgA antiendomysial antibody test. A step forward in celiac disease screening. Serum IgA antiendomysial antibodies (EmA) were found in 61 (87%) of 70 adults and children with untreated celiac disease, whereas IgA antigliadin antibodies (AGA) and IgA R1-antireticulin antibodies (R1-ARA) were positive in 71% and 47%, respectively, of the same patients. Two of the nine untreated celiacs negative for IgA EmA showed positivity for IgA AGA. While IgA AGA and R1-ARA disappeared in all the celiacs tested one year after gluten-free diet, IgA EmA persisted at low titer in seven (18%) of these 38 subjects, although the jejunal biopsy showed a complete regrowth of jejunal villi. All the disease control patients as well as the blood donors tested were always negative for the three IgA antibodies. Our results state that the search for both IgA EmA and AGA gives the best results in the screening of celiac disease, since the positivity for at least one of these two antibodies allows identification with a 100% specificity of the 90% of untreated celiac patients. 
Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome in morbidly obese patients. Twenty-seven morbidly obese patients (13 men and 14 women) with body mass index greater than or equal to 40 kg m-2 were examined. The mean age of the subjects was 36.9 +/- 8.2 years (range 23-51 years), and the mean BMI was 50.2 +/- 6.2 kg m-2 (range 40.0-62.9 kg m-2). A whole-night sleep recording was made for all patients with signs or symptoms indicative of possible obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS). If the first nocturnal sleep recording was abnormal, it was controlled after 1 year. Eleven (10 men and one woman) of the 27 patients had an oxygen desaturation index (ODI) of 10 h-1. They were symptomatic with excessive daytime sleepiness or other daytime symptoms of OSAS. The occurrence of OSAS in men and women was 76.9 and 7.1%, respectively. Arterial hypertension was associated with OSAS, but not with smoking or the degree of obesity. Antihypertensive treatment was received by nine of the 27 patients; six of them had OSAS. Thus six of the 11 (54.5%) patients with OSAS and three of the 16 (18.8%) nonapnoeic patients were treated for arterial hypertension (Fisher exact test, P = 0.042). The odds ratio of OSAS for arterial hypertension is 5.2 (95% CI, 0.71-43.6). Vertical-banded gastroplasty was performed in 14 patients, three of whom had OSAS. The selection of patients for gastroplasty was made without taking into account the results of sleep recordings. In the three OSAS patients, a 30-38% reduction in BMI was achieved by surgery. Eight patients with OSAS were treated with an intensified dietary regimen, and the reduction in BMI ranged from -2.6 to 33%. OSAS was either cured or significantly improved in six (55%) patients, with a mean reduction in BMI of 27%, while in patients with persistent OSAS the mean reduction in BMI was only 7%. 
Multiple coronary artery-left ventricular fistulae: clinical, angiographic, and pathologic findings. Multiple fistulae between all 3 major coronary arteries and the left ventricle were found at cardiac catheterization in a 69-year-old woman presenting with typical angina. Subsequent necropsy showed abnormal intramyocardial vessels communicating with the left ventricular lumen. This is the first report to document clinical, angiographic, and pathologic findings in this anomaly. 
Ebstein's anomaly associated with splenomegaly and reversible hypersplenism. A case of Ebstein's anomaly associated with chronic right heart failure, hepatosplenomegaly, and the haematological features of hypersplenism is presented. The haematological abnormalities were corrected after tricuspid valve replacement but recurred with the reemergence of clinical features of right heart failure. 
Possible mechanism of vascular reocclusion after initially successful thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. We studied the effects of urokinase (UK), pro-urokinase (pro-UK), and recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) on platelet aggregation and the production of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) in vitro. Both UK and pro-UK inhibited the platelet aggregation induced by adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP), collagen, or thrombin in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, although a low dose of rt-PA (5 to 10 x 10(4) U/ml) blunted platelet aggregability, a high dose (40 to 60 x 10(4) U/ml) led to platelet hyperaggregation. UK and pro-UK markedly inhibited TXA2 synthesis during ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Despite the significant reduction of TXA2 synthesis by 10 x 10(4) U/ml rt-PA, a concentration of 60 x 10(4) U/ml rt-PA had no effect on synthesis. These results indicate that UK and pro-UK each inhibit platelet function, but a high concentration of rt-PA enhances platelet aggregability. This finding may at least in part contribute to the high incidence of reocclusion after initially successful thrombolysis with rt-PA. 
Transverse versus longitudinal arteriotomy: an experimental study in dogs. An arteriotomy is a commonly used surgical technique. Either a transverse or a longitudinal incision can be made, but no study has been done to determine if one technique results in more stenosis or flow disturbance than the other. Six-millimeter arteriotomies were made on the carotid and femoral arteries of six dogs. Transverse arteriotomies were made on the right, and longitudinal arteriotomies were made on the left. Four weeks later the vessels were reexplored. Duplex scanning was used to assess the amount of turbulence at each arteriotomy. Afterward, latex casts of the arteries were made to determine the percent stenosis caused by each arteriotomy. The mean percent stenosis associated with transverse arteriotomies was 10.5% (+/- 4.4%), versus 22.8% (+/- 9.4%) for the longitudinal arteriotomies, (p = 0.001, matched t test). No difference in the amount of turbulence associated with each technique was demonstrated. A longitudinal arteriotomy results in significantly greater stenosis than does a transverse arteriotomy. Unless there is a specific indication for a longitudinal arteriotomy, a transverse arteriotomy should be used. 
The treatment of small acoustic tumors: now or later? Prior to the advent of microneurosurgery, the operative mortality for acoustic tumor removal was high and management often consisted of observation until sufficient symptoms warranted removal. The treatment of these tumors has evolved, and recent introduction of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows the diagnosis of very small intracanalicular acoustic tumors before hearing has been significantly affected. For such tumors, some surgeons advocate the premicrosurgical philosophy of observation rather than removal. Our results of small acoustic tumor removal with attempt at hearing preservation were reviewed. From 1961 to June 1989, 39 acoustic tumors 0.5 cm or less were removed by the middle fossa approach. Measurable hearing was preserved in 67%, and facial function 1 year postoperatively was normal or nearly normal in 97%. There was no other permanent operative morbidity. Given our results, early surgical removal of small acoustic tumors is advocated. 
Localization of nuclear matrix proteins (NMPs) in multiple tissue types with NM-200.4 (an antibody strongly reactive with NMPs found in breast carcinoma). Nuclear matrix proteins (NMP) are nonhistone proteins found in the nucleus of many eukaryotic cells. Furthermore certain NMPs are reported to be cell-type specific and expressed differentially by malignant cells. To study the specificity of NM-200.4 (an antibody reactive to NMPs extracted from cultured breast carcinoma cells of the T-47D line), cancers and benign tissues from multiple body sites were surveyed. All 17 breast carcinomas showed strong reactivity to tumor cell nuclei. Also nuclei from one of two lung carcinomas, a papillary thyroid carcinoma, an ovarian fibroma, and a lymphoma were strongly reactive. One leiomyosarcoma and a dermoid cyst were negative. Although 1 benign breast with duct hyperplasia showed moderate reactivity, only 1 of 10 benign breast biopsies without hyperplasia showed reactivity. Three of 4 skin biopsies, 2 liver biopsies, 6 of 9 kidney biopsies, and 5 of 10 gastrointestinal mucosal biopsies showed reactivity in benign nuclei. It is concluded that, although breast carcinoma nuclei showed the most consistent reactivity for NM-200.4, both benign and malignant nuclei from other body sites also show reactivity. 
Aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in persons aged 80 years and over. Seventy-one patients aged greater than or equal to 80 years (mean +/- standard deviation 82 +/- 2) with aortic stenosis or mixed stenosis and regurgitation underwent aortic valve replacement alone (n = 35, group 1) or in combination with a coronary artery bypass procedure without any other valve procedure (n = 36, group 2). Preoperatively, 91% had severe cardiac limitations (New York Heart Association class III or IV). Hospital mortality was 12.7% overall (9 of 71), 5.7% (2 of 35) for group 1 and 19.4% (7 of 36) for group 2. Perioperatively, 1 patient (1.4%) had a stroke. Survival from late cardiac death at 1 and 3 years was 98.2 and 95.5%, respectively, for all patients, 100% for patients who underwent isolated aortic valve replacement, and 96.3 and 91.2%, respectively, for patients who underwent aortic valve replacement plus coronary artery bypass. Eighty-three percent of surviving patients had marked symptomatic improvement. Freedom from all valve-related complications (thromboembolism, anticoagulant, endocarditis, reoperation or prosthetic failure) was 93.3 and 80.4% at 1 and 3 years, respectively. Thus, short- and long-term morbidity and mortality after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in patients aged greater than or equal to 80 years are encouragingly low, although the addition of coronary artery bypass grafting increases short- and long-term mortality. 
Leptomeningeal dissemination of optic pathway gliomas in three children. We treated three children with optic pathway gliomas who had progressive disease associated with metastatic spread to the leptomeninges. One patient had radiographic resolution of leptomeningeal disease after treatment with intravenous carmustine and oral mercaptopurine but died of progressive pulmonary fibrosis. The second patient was treated with intravenous thiotepa, and the leptomeningeal disease remained stable. The third patient was treated with intravenous vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and etoposide and had a significant size reduction of the leptomeningeal lesion. Although leptomeningeal dissemination is a seemingly rare event, it is important that all children with optic pathway gliomas be considered for this possibility, particularly after the onset of new, atypical neurologic symptoms. 
Continuous spinal anaesthesia for abdominal surgery in a patient receiving amiodarone. The perioperative management of a 57-yr-old patient receiving chronic amiodarone therapy with a continuous spinal anaesthetic for a low anterior resection of the colon is discussed. The most appropriate anaesthetic technique for patients receiving chronic amiodarone therapy remains controversial, but the avoidance of general anaesthesia may be beneficial because of the risk of postoperative pulmonary failure. In this patient continuous spinal anaesthesia was slowly titrated to the desired level, coincident haemodynamic alterations were easily treated as they developed, and high serum local anaesthetic concentrations which occur with other regional anaesthetic techniques were avoided. 
Massive evisceration: a complication following sacrospinous vaginal vault fixation. This report describes a spontaneous vaginal vault prolapse in association with massive evisceration following sacrospinous vaginal vault fixation. Careful attention to surgical technique is critical to the success of the operation. In particular, good apposition of the vaginal vault to the sacrospinous ligament and adequate repair of an enterocele should avoid this complication. 
Long-term bridge to transplantation with the Symbion acute ventricular assist device system. A 48-year-old man was supported for 164 days with Symbion biventricular assist devices. During that time, his cytotoxic antibody screen fell from 97% positivity to less than 10%, enabling cardiac transplantation. Complications during the implantation included a 3-minute episode of amaurosis fugax, one positive blood culture, and anemia, which responded to decreased frequency of blood drawing. He is now alive 7 months after transplantation. 
Intracranial neurenteric cysts. Report of two cases. Two cases of intracranial neurenteric cysts are reported and the literature is reviewed. Neurenteric cysts are rare congenital lesions that tend to occur in the spinal intradural space. An intracranial location is exceptional. 
Selective inhibition of leukemia cell proliferation by BCR-ABL antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. To determine the role of the BCR-ABL gene in the proliferation of blast cells of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia, leukemia blast cells were exposed to synthetic 18-mer oligodeoxynucleotides complementary to two identified BCR-ABL junctions. Leukemia colony formation was suppressed, whereas granulocyte-macrophage colony formation from normal marrow progenitors was unaffected. When equal proportions of normal marrow progenitors and blast cells were mixed, exposed to the oligodeoxynucleotides, and assayed for residual colony formation, the majority of residual cells were normal. These findings demonstrate the requirement for a functional BCR-ABL gene in maintaining the leukemic phenotype and the feasibility of gene-targeted selective killing of neoplastic cells. 
Twenty-four-hour variation of blood pressure in vascular dementia of the Binswanger type. Using a noninvasive portable blood pressure recorder, we compared 24-hour variations of blood pressure among 1) 35 patients with Binswanger-type dementia, 2) 43 with lacunar-type dementia, 3) 26 with a single lacunar stroke, and 4) 30 controls. Each group was divided into antihypertensive-treated and -untreated subgroups. Among the untreated subgroups, patients with Binswanger-type dementia had significantly greater 24-hour mean systolic blood pressures, 24-hour systolic blood pressure standard deviations, and maximal systolic blood pressure variations than the controls (p less than 0.05). Among the treated patients, blood pressure variability increased similarly in all subgroups with cerebrovascular lesions compared with the controls (p less than 0.05). The nocturnal blood pressure decreases seen in the controls were absent among both untreated and treated patients with Binswanger- or lacunar-type dementia (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest the importance of hypertension, short-term variations in blood pressure, and a sustained nighttime elevation of blood pressure for the pathogenesis of both Binswanger-type and lacunar-type dementia in patients receiving antihypertensive medication. 
Gallstone formation after major abdominal surgery. 84 patients underwent multiple abdominal ultrasound examinations over a median of 36 months (range 6-140). 11 had gallstones at their first ultrasound examination, and were excluded from further analysis. Of the remaining 73 patients, 12 of 47 who underwent major abdominal surgery had gallstones within 14-36 months of operation, compared with 0 of 26 who did not undergo such surgery. The cumulative prevalence of new gallstones within 3 years of major surgery was 28%; no new gallstones were seen from 36 to up to 140 months postoperatively. By univariate and logistic regression analysis, age and major abdominal surgery were the only significant clinical determinants for the appearance of gallstones during follow-up. The findings of this retrospective study indicate that major abdominal surgery may accelerate the development of gallstones in some patients. If confirmed in a prospective study, it may be possible to define groups at high risk of gallstones after surgery and to institute prophylactic measures. 
Comparison of catheter ablation using radiofrequency versus direct current energy: biophysical, electrophysiologic and pathologic observations. The effects of catheter ablation with radiofrequency versus direct current energy were compared in 18 dogs assigned to two groups (of 9 dogs each). Each dog underwent a single ablation at two sites in the left ventricle at energy levels of 100, 200 or 300 J delivered in unipolar configuration to six dogs each. A transient decrease in left ventricular systolic pressure (from 121.3 +/- 24.5 to 94.2 +/- 18.7 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and wall motion abnormality were noted in dogs with direct current shock. The left ventricular ejection fraction decreased (from 50 +/- 2% to 34 +/- 3%, p less than 0.001) shortly after direct current ablation but improved 4 weeks later to 43 +/- 3%. There were no significant changes in left ventricular pressure, wall motion or ejection fraction in dogs in the radiofrequency ablation group. Sustained ventricular tachycardia (greater than or equal to 30 s) was seen immediately after direct current shock in all dogs, and one dog died of intractable ventricular fibrillation. A 24-h ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitor obtained immediately after the procedure showed multiple runs of ventricular tachycardia in all dogs exposed to direct current ablation but in only three dogs that underwent radiofrequency ablation. No differences were found in peak creatine kinase, complete blood count with smear and B-beta 15-42 fibrinopeptide levels. Pathologically, direct current-induced lesions were larger (mean length x width x depth 10.9 x 7.5 x 5.2 vs. 4.8 x 4.6 x 4.3 mm) and were poorly circumscribed with inhomogeneous margins of necrosis. 
Impaired lipopolysaccharide-inducible tumor necrosis factor production in vitro by peripheral blood monocytes of patients with viral hepatitis. We investigated lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor production in vitro by peripheral blood monocytes from patients with various liver diseases. Tumor necrosis factor production was found to be significantly reduced in patients with chronic hepatitis B (n = 17; 135 +/- 30 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml; mean +/- S.E.M.) and patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis (n = 15; 212 +/- 22 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml) compared with healthy control individuals (n = 47; 411 +/- 40 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml; p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01, respectively). This reduced tumor necrosis factor production was not only seen with an optimal stimulating concentration of lipopolysaccharide (100 ng/ml) but also with suboptimal concentrations (0.1 ng/ml). In contrast to patients with chronic viral hepatitis, monocytes from patients with alcohol-induced cirrhosis (n = 26; 444 +/- 49 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml), primary biliary cirrhosis (n = 7; 412 +/- 81 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml) and alcohol-induced fatty liver changes (n = 5; 401 +/- 62 pg tumor necrosis factor/ml) produced normal amounts of tumor necrosis factor when stimulated with an optimal concentration of lipopolysaccharide. Lipopolysaccharide (0.1 ng lipopolysaccharide/ml)-stimulated peripheral blood monocytes of patients with chronic hepatitis B (n = 15; 102 +/- 32 pg/ml) or non-A, non-B hepatitis (n = 13; 97+/- 16 pg/ml) could not be induced to produce more tumor necrosis factor either when prestimulated with gamma-interferon (170 +/- 45 pg/ml and 149 +/- 32 pg/ml, respectively), a lymphokine known to activate monocytes, or with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin to reduce the suppressive effect of prostaglandin E2 (148 +/- 40 pg/ml and 153 +/- 45 pg/ml, respectively. 
The long-term course of Lyme arthritis in children. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. The natural history of Lyme disease is not completely known. We studied the long-term course of Lyme arthritis in 46 children in whom the onset of the disease occurred between 1976 and 1979 and who received no antibiotic therapy for at least the first four years of the illness. RESULTS. Of the 46 children (age range, 2 to 15 years), 33 (72 percent) initially had erythema migrans, 7 (15 percent) had influenza-like symptoms, and 6 (13 percent) had migratory joint pain. These manifestations were followed by brief attacks of arthritis, particularly affecting the knee. The percentage of children with recurrent episodes of arthritis declined each year. By year 4, only 10 children still had a mean of two episodes of arthritis per year; the duration of arthritis was generally longer in older children (P less than 0.05). During the sixth year of illness, two children (4 percent) had keratitis, and more than 10 years after the onset of disease, a subtle encephalopathy developed in two other children. Of the 39 children whom we were able to contact in 1988-1989, 12 (31 percent) still had occasional brief episodes of joint pain and 1 (3 percent) had marked fatigue. All 46 children had positive IgG antibody responses to Borrelia burgdorferi throughout the illness and on long-term follow-up. As compared with those who became asymptomatic, the children with recurrent symptoms more often had IgM responses to the spirochete and had significantly higher IgG titers (P less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. The course of initially untreated Lyme disease in children may include acute infection followed by attacks of arthritis and then by keratitis, subtle joint pain, or chronic encephalopathy. 
Lower respiratory tract iron burden is increased in association with cigarette smoking. Iron, by catalyzing the generation of the hydroxyl radical via the Haber-Weiss reaction, may participate in oxidant tissue injury. To determine whether iron might contribute to cigarette smoke-induced lung injury, we estimated the iron content of the lower respiratory tract by measuring intracellular iron content of pulmonary macrophages and extracellular iron content of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from cigarette smokers and nonsmokers. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed by using methods that allow for recovery of samples enriched for bronchial and alveolar contents. The intracellular iron content of the alveolar macrophages was determined by staining cytocentrifuged, air-dried pulmonary macrophages with a modified Prussian blue stain and assigning a score of 0 to 3 (0 = no stain, 3 = dense staining throughout the cytoplasm) to 100 macrophages. The extracellular iron level of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was determined by using modifications of the Ferrozine method of Carter. Macrophage intracellular iron content was measured in a group of cigarette smokers with chronic bronchitis (n = 17), in smokers without chronic bronchitis (n = 15), and in normal volunteers (n = 15). Extracellular iron concentration was determined in a subset of the subjects with chronic bronchitis (n = 12) and in a separate group of normal volunteers (n = 5). The intracellular iron score was elevated in the bronchial sample lavage fluid in both the smokers with chronic bronchitis (45.3 +/- 13.9) and the asymptomatic smokers (26.6 +/- 8.0) compared with the normal individuals (8.1 +/- 1.7, p less than 0.03, both comparisons), but did not differ between the two groups of cigarette-smoking subjects (p = 0.68). 
A selective deficit for writing vowels in acquired dysgraphia Brain-damaged patients with acquired writing disorders provide important information about the normal processes of spelling and writing. Current models indicate that to produce a letter string, its 'abstract' representation is computed and stored in a temporary orthographic buffer, from which it is converted to a verbal code (if the word is to be spelled aloud) or to a physical letter code (if the word is to be written). The stored graphemic representations specify the identity and order of the component letters and their consonant/vowel status. Here I describe the spelling performance of two patients with a selective deficit in writing vowels. When writing words, the first patient omitted all vowels, leaving a blank space between consonants or consonant clusters, whereas the second produced errors that almost exclusively involved vowels. This pattern of performance supports the hypothesis that the consonant/vowel status of graphemes is differentially specified in the spelling process and may be selectively affected after brain damage. 
Repair of coarctation of the aorta in children: postoperative morphology. To determine the morphologic sequelae after surgical repair of coarctation of the aorta, the authors retrospectively reviewed angiograms and hemodynamic and clinical data on 215 patients who underwent cardiac catheterization after surgical repair of coarctation of the aorta during a 13-year period. Ninety-seven patients (45%) underwent coarctation resection with end-to-end anastomosis; 92 (43%), subclavian-flap angioplasties; and 26 (12%), synthetic-patch repairs. Sixty-four patients (30%) had an "aneurysm," defined as a measurement ratio of repair site to diaphragmatic aorta greater than 1.5. Transverse-arch or isthmic hypoplasia or recoarctation was detected in 86 patients (40%) and was most commonly associated with septal defects or obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. Pullback systolic pressure gradients at catheterization were significantly higher (P = .0001) in the patients with transverse-arch hypoplasia and recoarctation than in those with ratios of transverse arch to diaphragmatic aorta greater than 0.9. Significant postoperative arch obstructions can be predicted with measurement ratios on the basis of the diameter of the abdominal aorta. 
Elevated intravesical pressure causes arterial hypoperfusion in canine colocystoplasty: a fluorometric assessment. Since 1988 there have been 15 reported cases of late, spontaneously ruptured intestinal cystoplasties at bowel sites remote from the anastomosis. Ischemic necrosis has been suggested as a possible etiology. We examined this hypothesis by quantifying the uptake of intravascular fluorescein in the augmented bowel of adult mongrel canines. There was a statistically significant decrease in fluorescein uptake at high intravesical pressures, which appeared to be most pronounced at the antimesenteric border. This laboratory study supports a recent clinical report of histological changes pathognomonic for chronic ischemia in the augmented bowel of patients with spontaneous rupture. 
Hypertension and vascular disease. The use of antihypertensive drug treatment has altered the natural history of hypertension. Whereas congestive heart failure, cerebral hemorrhage, and renal failure were the major complications of untreated severe hypertension, myocardial infarction and thrombotic stroke have emerged as the major problems in treated hypertensives. None of the major therapeutic trials in hypertension have provided evidence that reducing blood pressure reduces the risk of atherosclerotic complications of hypertension. Hypertension certainly aggravates the severity of atheromatous lesions in experimental animals and, thus, may do so in humans. However, atherosclerosis is more closely related to disturbances in lipoprotein metabolism than to other factors. The common finding that serum cholesterol is raised in hypertensive patients may be due to atherosclerosis being the primary lesion, with the hypertension as a secondary complication rather than the primary lesion. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of great vessel, myocardial, and pericardial disease. The outstanding ability of magnetic resonance imaging to provide anatomic information over a large field of view in any plane in patients of all sizes and body habitus has made it the current modality of choice for evaluating the thoracic aorta and for differentiating constrictive pericarditis from restrictive cardiomyopathy. The lack of radiation exposure makes it particularly advantageous for patients requiring serial studies. It serves as an important clinical adjunct to ultrasound in evaluating diseases of the abdominal aorta, other great vessels, the myocardium, and the pericardium. Myocardial function, thickness, and mass can be assessed without geometric assumptions. Myocardial tagging offers a unique way to study cardiac biomechanics. The combination of anatomic and quantitative functional information becoming available in clinically reasonable acquisition times makes magnetic resonance imaging an increasingly attractive noninvasive tool. The contribution of tissue characterization has been disappointing, but may improve with utilization of contrast agents; that of in vivo spectroscopy remains investigational. 
Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis: a pituitary mass lesion occurring in pregnancy. Proposal for medical treatment. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is a nonneoplastic, autoimmune cause of pituitary enlargement and insufficiency. Forty-eight of the 50 reported cases have occurred in women, nearly all in association with pregnancy. Left undiagnosed and untreated, it can progress to pituitary insufficiency and death. Histologic studies show characteristic changes of autoimmune disease with lymphocytic infiltration and destruction of anterior pituitary tissue with fibrotic replacement. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is currently diagnosed after other pituitary mass lesions are excluded and has been treated with a combination of neurosurgery and end-organ hormone replacement. However, with improved knowledge of the pathophysiologic characteristics and natural history of the disease and with the ability to make a prospective diagnosis, we believe glucocorticoids may suppress the inflammatory response and protect remaining pituitary tissue. Two previously unreported pregnancy-associated cases are described, including one prospectively diagnosed and treated without neurosurgery during pregnancy. Obstetrician-gynecologists must place lymphocytic adenohypophysitis in the differential diagnosis of pituitary enlargement associated with pregnancy, since treatment is available and the sequelae may be life-threatening. 
The relationship between esophageal motility disorders and microvascular angina. Patients with unexplained chest pain have caused investigators in cardiology, gastroenterology, and psychiatry to find abnormalities with overlap among the three specialties. This article reviews the data concerning the potential interrelation of chest pain of cardiac or esophageal origin. 
Continuous intra-arterial administration of recombinant interleukin-2 in low-stage bladder cancer. A phase IB study. Toxicity and clinical effects of intra-arterial (IA) continuous infusion of recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) were evaluated in twelve patients with low-stage transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder (T1NOMO; G1 to G2). rIL-2 dosages were escalated from 18 x 10(3) to 18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d in four groups of three patients. After two 5-day courses, separated by a 48-hour interval, evaluation of clinical response and transurethral resection (TUR) were carried out. World Health Organization (WHO) Grade 3 toxicity occurred in 2 of 12 patients (hypotension/mental confusion and fever, respectively); all side effects rapidly disappeared after infusion was abandoned. No laboratory toxicity developed in any patient. Two pathologically proven complete responses (CR) were achieved using 18 x 10(4) IU/m2/d, and three partial responses (PR) were achieved using 18 x 10(5) IU/m2/d in two patients and 18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d in one patient, giving an overall response rate of 42%. All objective responses are still ongoing after a mean follow-up time of 23 months (range, 12 to 32 months). Local relapses occurred 3 months after TUR only in two nonresponders. 
Chemotherapy and radiation therapy for anal carcinoma. Survival and late morbidity. This study was performed to evaluate the survival and late morbidity rates of a widely used combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy regimen given to patients with carcinoma of the anal canal. One hundred six patients received radiation therapy (5000 cGy given by two anteroposterior-posteroanterior [AP-PA] opposed fields) and chemotherapy (mitomycin C plus 5-fluorouracil [5-FU]) from 1983 to 1989. Patients with primary tumors (n = 86) had a complete response rate of 84% and a 5-year survival rate of 72%. There was no significant difference in survival rate according to tumor stage. Patients with local recurrence (n = 20) after primary surgery had a complete response rate of 50% and a 5-year survival rate of 40%. Fifteen percent of the patients experienced late treatment-related symptoms including anal incontinence, intestinal obstruction, and chronic pelvic pain. The current treatment regimen is effective but carries a considerable risk of complications. As survival rate was independent of tumor stage, the locoregional treatment should probably be less extensive for small tumors than for advanced tumors. This strategy may reduce the late side effects for patients with small tumors without reducing the survival rate. 
Diagnosis and treatment of arachnoid cysts of the posterior fossa. Arachnoid cysts of the posterior fossa are rare. When arachnoid cysts are encountered, the presenting symptoms are frequently otologic, with hearing loss and imbalance occurring commonly. Three cases are presented with a previously unreported otologic symptom, that of bilateral hearing loss, which in one case was fluctuant. None of the patients had the common symptoms of unilateral hearing loss and headache. With the advent of computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, these cysts may be readily identified, usually with diagnostic imaging alone. Unfortunately there is often a delay in diagnosis because of the vague and fleeting nature of the symptoms. Because no single diagnostic symptom pattern is able to characterize all cases, it is believed computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging or both are indicated in patients with long-standing otologic complaints--even in the absence of unilateral symptoms. Treatment of posterior fossa arachnoid cysts primarily consists of surgical procedures designed to decompress the cyst. In this series, treatment with diuretics alone resulted in improvement of symptoms during several years of followup, with no evidence of enlargement of the cysts. 
Immunologic reactivity in the middle ear in otitis media with effusion. This article reviews the immunologic reactivity in the middle ear in both the human disease and in animal models of otitis media. It differentiates the role of immune complexes in otitis media in the animal model and in the human form of middle ear inflammation. The effect of immunization of the gut on the mucosal immune system in the middle ear is briefly explored, and the source of lymphocytes that make their way into the middle ear mucosa from other parts of the mucosal immune system and systemic immune system are briefly discussed. Finally, work from the author's laboratory on the immune response of children with recurrent otitis media due to nontypable Haemophilus influenzae is summarized. 
Plasma beta endorphin in cirrhosis and renal failure. Whether the plasma concentration of beta endorphin was increased in hepatic cirrhosis like that of smaller opioid peptides methionine enkephalin and leucine enkephalin was determined. Its concentration in chronic renal failure was also measured. Plasma beta endorphin was not significantly raised in cirrhotic patients with or without ascites (medians 5.2 pmol/l and 4.7 pmol/l respectively) compared with disease control subjects (4.9 pmol/l) and healthy control subjects (4.9 pmol/l). In contrast, the peptide was increased 2.5 fold (p less than 0.001) in chronic renal failure (12.4 pmol/l) and was found in many of these patients' urine. The data are compatible with the hypothesis that the liver may play an important role in the elimination of opioid peptides of octapeptide size or less but not the larger peptides such as beta endorphin. 
Blood pressure, pulse, and neurohumoral responses to nitroprusside-induced hypotension in normotensive aging men. In order to assess the effects of age on blood pressure, pulse, and neurohumoral responses to hypotensive stress, we infused nitroprusside into healthy young and old men until mean arterial blood pressure was reduced 20% from basal. Elderly subjects were much more sensitive to nitroprusside. Pulse increases in response to this hypotensive stress were markedly reduced in the elderly, but renin, vasopressin, and norepinephrine responses were not different between young and old. We conclude that cardioacceleration, one of the primary defenses against hypotension, is impaired with age. However, neurohumoral responses to hypotension are intact in the elderly. 
Exercise echocardiography as a screening test for coronary artery disease and correlation with coronary arteriography. We evaluated exercise echocardiography as a screening test for coronary artery disease in 228 patients, all of whom underwent subsequent coronary angiography. After an echocardiogram at rest was obtained, each patient performed maximal, symptom-limited, upright treadmill exercise, immediately after which repeat imaging was performed. The exercise echocardiogram was abnormal if any segment failed to become hypercontractile with exercise, and these regional wall motion abnormalities were used to predict the extent and distribution of coronary disease. At subsequent angiography, coronary stenosis was defined as significant if luminal diameter was reduced greater than or equal to 50%. Compared with electrocardiography, exercise echocardiography was more sensitive (97 vs 51%) and specific (64 vs 62%), and had higher positive (90 vs 82%) and negative (87 vs 28%) predictive accuracies. Exercise echocardiography was also highly predictive of the extent (no, 1-, 2- or 3-vessel disease) and distribution (which vessel) of coronary stenoses. It is concluded that exercise echocardiography is an excellent screening test for the presence, extent and distribution of coronary artery disease. 
Phenytoin-induced elevation of serum estradiol and reproductive dysfunction in men with epilepsy. Reproductive and sexual dysfunction in men with epilepsy has been attributed to androgen deficiency. Low serum free testosterone (FT) levels occur in both hypogonadotropic and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) have been implicated. Proposed mechanisms include induction of increased sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) resulting in decreased FT, as well as dysfunction or premature aging of the hypothalamopituitary-gonadal axis. In an investigation comparing serum reproductive steroid levels among 20 men receiving phenytoin (PHT) monotherapy for complex partial seizures, 21 untreated men with complex partial seizures, and 20 age-matched normal controls, total estradiol levels were significantly higher in the PHT group (56.3 +/- 29.4 pg/ml, mean +/- SD) than in the untreated (32.4 +/- 27.4 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and normal control (34.3 +/- 12.7 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) groups. The physiologically active non-SHBG-bound serum estradiol levels were also significantly higher in the medicated group (45.1 +/- 21.7 pg/ml) than in the untreated (29.9 +/- 17.2 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and normal control (31.1 +/- 11.4 pg/ml, p = 0.05) groups. These findings suggest that PHT may lower FT by induction of aromatase, enhancing FT conversion to estradiol, as well as SHBG synthetase. Estradiol exerts a potent inhibitory influence on luteinizing hormone secretion and has been suggested to play a major role in negative feedback in men as well as women. Suppression of LH secretion results in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Chronically low FT leads to testicular failure and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Finally, estradiol has been shown to produce premature aging of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, which secretes gonadotropin-releasing hormone. 
Epiphyseal involvement in osteosarcoma. Plain radiography and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging were used to assess the extent of transphyseal involvement in 15 consecutive patients with long bone osteosarcoma and nonfused epiphyses. The findings were correlated with those from surgical and microscopic pathologic examinations. There were no cases of false-positive findings with either MR imaging or plain radiography. Conventional radiography accurately helped predict transphyseal spread in only nine of 15 cases (60%). Spread to the epiphysis was present in 12 of the 15 cases (80%) and was accurately predicted with MR imaging in all 12 cases. This finding contradicts the common misconception that the physis acts as a "barrier" to tumor spread. 
The stomach in liver cirrhosis. Endoscopic, morphological, and clinical correlations. The stomachs of cirrhotic patients are frequently subject to a number of alterations, detectable by endoscopy, the presence of which indicates a disturbance in the mucosa. Several investigators believe that portal hypertension plays an etiopathogenetic role. Three groups of subjects were studied prospectively: 83 cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension, 53 cirrhotic patients without portal hypertension, and 135 control subjects. Snake skin, scarlatina rash, and petechia were the most frequent endoscopic findings in the cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension (P less than 0.001); these findings were also most frequently present in association with each other in this group. There was no correlation between the endoscopic findings, the clinical gravity of liver cirrhosis (Child-Pugh grade), and the gravity of esophageal varices (Beppu score). There were no characteristic inflammatory findings in the gastric mucosa. Hypergastrinemia was often observed in cirrhotic patients with and without angiodysplasias. 
Occurrence of stroke associated with use/abuse of drugs. Ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke frequently occur in temporal association with use or abuse of illicit and over-the-counter (OTC) sympathomimetic drugs. However, little information is available on the proportion of strokes associated with use/abuse of drugs in specific hospital populations. Between September 1, 1988, and August 1, 1989, 167 of 178 stroke patients entered into the Maryland Stroke Data Bank were asked for a history of drug use or abuse. Information was incomplete in 51 of 167 (31%) patients due to neurologic deficit or lack of inquiry. Eleven of the remaining 116 cases (9.5%) were historically associated with drug use. Age range was 25 to 56 years (mean, 41 years). Stroke associated with drug use occurred in four of 62 (6%) cerebral infarcts, two of 28 (7%) intracerebral hemorrhages, and five of 26 (19%) subarachnoid hemorrhages (p = ns). Drugs included cocaine in five (45%), OTC sympathomimetics in three (27%), phencyclidine in two (18%), and heroin in one (9%). 
Acupuncture and transcutaneous stimulation analgesia in comparison with moderate-dose fentanyl anaesthesia in major surgery. Clinical efficacy and influence on recovery and morbidity The efficacy of acupuncture and transcutaneous stimulation analgesia, supplemented by small doses of fentanyl (mean 1.2 micrograms/kg, SD 1.7) was compared with moderate-dose fentanyl anaesthesia (mean 22.9 micrograms/kg, SD 2.8) in 29 patients who underwent surgery for retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. The present study describes the anaesthetic techniques and comparison of haemodynamics, demand for analgesics after surgery, recovery and blood gases, restoration of urinary and bowel functions, convalescence in terms of self-reliance and the postoperative course in respect of fatigue and morbidity. A more rapid return of consciousness, an absence of hypercapnia and a smaller decrease in pH were observed in patients who received acupuncture and transcutaneous stimulation (p less than 0.05). No clinically relevant disadvantages attributable to the method were demonstrated. 
Self-efficacy and outcome expectancies: relationship to chronic pain coping strategies and adjustment. Recent studies suggest that coping strategies play an important role in adjustment to chronic pain. Identification of factors that influence coping could potentially help clinicians facilitate the use of adaptive coping strategies by pain patients. According to social learning theory, self-efficacy beliefs (judgments regarding one's capabilities) and outcome expectancies (judgments regarding the consequences of behaviors) are significant determinants of coping behavior. This study tested hypotheses derived from social learning theory by examining the contributions of these beliefs to the prediction of coping behavior in chronic pain patients. One hundred and fourteen chronic pain patients completed measures of health-related dysfunction, pain severity, use of 8 coping strategies, and outcome and self-efficacy expectancies regarding these coping strategies. In support of social learning theory, and consistent with research in other areas, the patients' beliefs regarding their capabilities were strongly related to reported coping efforts. Beliefs about the consequences of coping efforts and their interaction with beliefs about capabilities were generally unrelated to coping. These results suggest that treatment should emphasize the actual practice and use of adaptive coping strategies over education about their outcome. 
Control of morbidity due to Schistosoma haematobium on Pemba Island: egg excretion and hematuria as indicators of infection. The variability of Schistosoma haematobium egg excretion using a quantitative syringe filtration technique and the variability of hematuria detected visually and by reagent strips were studied in a population of 520 subjects from the village of Pujini (Pemba Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania) for 6 consecutive days. A high degree of day-to-day variability of egg excretion within subjects was found both in the whole population and in the 5-19 year age group. Subjects with 1 urinary egg count of greater than or equal to 50 eggs/10 ml urine were not similarly classified in 36-61% of the other 5 examinations and 4-16% of their other examinations were negative. Gross hematuria had a specificity of almost 100%, when related to a positive filtration on any day, and was closely related to egg counts of greater than or equal to 50 eggs/10 ml urine. The finding of a strongly positive reaction for hematuria on a given single day was closely associated with the subject having a high egg count (greater than or equal to 50 eggs/10 ml urine) on at least one of the 6 days of the study. At the primary health care level, single highly positive semiquantitative values for hematuria were a more useful diagnostic indicator than a single egg count to select patients with heavy infections for selective population chemotherapy. 
Inflammation at the neuromuscular junction in myasthenia gravis. To better define the pathogenic mechanisms in the antibody-mediated autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis (MG), we analyzed the morphology and electrophysiology of the neuromuscular junction in anconeus muscle biopsy specimens from eight patients with MG and seven control subjects. There were inflammatory cells at the neuromuscular junction in seven of the eight biopsies from MG patients. The endplate index (length of the postsynaptic membrane divided by the length of the apposed presynaptic membrane) was abnormally reduced in all the MG patients, and fiber type grouping, suggestive of reinnervation, was present in six of the eight MG patients. Intracellular recording revealed diminished amplitude of miniature endplate potentials and miniature endplate currents in the MG patients compared with the controls. The time constant of decay of miniature endplate currents did not differ from that of controls, suggesting no change in mean channel open time of the acetylcholine receptor. The endplate receptor sensitivity to iontophoretically applied acetylcholine was also decreased in MG patients compared with controls. The quantal content of neurally evoked endplate potentials was reduced in six of the eight MG patients, demonstrating abnormal presynaptic function as well. The presence of inflammatory cells at the neuromuscular junctions of limb muscles in MG reconciles an apparent disparity between the animal model of MG, experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis, and the human disease. This study also demonstrates a frequent presynaptic component to the abnormal neuromuscular transmission in MG. 
The role of endogenous free radical scavengers on tissue recovery in the experimental ulcer model. The role of lipid peroxidation and endogenous oxygen-derived free radical scavengers on ischemia-reperfusion injury and tissue recovery in rat ulcer model corresponding to the gastric histopathology was investigated. Male Wistar rats weighting 200-250 g were heparinized before occlusion of the celiac axis for 1.5 h. Endogenous CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD), Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase, fumarase, cytochrome c oxidase, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive compounds as lipid peroxidation products were measured in the gastric tissue at 3 h, and 1, 2, 4, and 7 days after release and in the controls (no occlusion). At 3 h after release, erosion of the gastric mucosa was observed, and gastric ulcers beyond the muscularis mucosae were present in the gastric body 2 days later. Seven days after release, gastric ulcers had disappeared. Activity levels for all five enzymes (CuZn-SOD, Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase, fumarase, and cytochrome c oxidase) were low for days 1-4 after release and did not return to control levels by the seventh day. It was observed that the ulcer formation, as evidenced by the histopathology, was significantly related to the levels of endogenous CuZn-SOD, Mn-SOD, glutathione peroxidase, fumarase, and cytochrome c oxidase activities. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive compounds were also low through the entire course of ulcer formation. The study concludes that decreases in the levels of these oxygen-derived free radical scavengers may result in the formation of gastric ulcers; however, endogenous free-radical scavengers may not correspond with tissue recovery. Lipid peroxidation may not be related to ulcer formation. 
Intestinal absorption of free oral hyperalimentation in the very short bowel syndrome. Ten adult ambulatory patients with the nonactive digestive disease short bowel syndrome were prospectively studied to quantitatively assess their free oral intake and their net digestive absorption of total calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrate during a 3-day period at least 6 months after a resection. The remaining portions of small bowel had a mean length of 75 cm (range, 0-200 cm); the remaining colon lengths had a mean of 67% of normal (range, 0%-100%). The experimental diets were formulated according to a home dietary inquiry. During the study period, pooled intakes and digestive losses were measured for total calories, fat, and protein using the bomb calorimetry, Van de Kamer, and Kjeldahl techniques, respectively. The ingested diet provided 58 +/- 14 kcal.kg-1.day-1 (mean +/- SD) and consisted of 46% carbohydrate, 31% fat, and 23% protein. Net digestive absorption was 67% +/- 12% for total calories, 79% +/- 15% for carbohydrate, 52% +/- 16% for fat, and 61% +/- 19% for protein. The larger net digestive absorption of carbohydrate (P less than or equal to 0.004) compared with fat and protein suggests salvage of colonic cholesterol in short bowel syndrome patients. It is concluded that these patients with the short bowel syndrome adapted to a hypercaloric, hyperprotein diet to compensate for increased fecal losses and that this hyperphagia does not seem to have impaired their net digestive absorption. 
Stanozolol in treatment of leg ulcers due to cryofibrinogenaemia. Five consecutive patients with cryofibrinogenaemia in association with painful leg ulcers and intravascular dermal thrombi were treated with stanozolol, an androgenic steroid with fibrinolytic properties. In all patients treatment was followed by rapid and striking pain relief and healing of the ulcers. Cryofibrinogenaemia was not detected on subsequent laboratory evaluation, and dermal intravascular thrombi had resolved on repeat histological examination. 
Hepatitis C viral RNA in serum of patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis: detection by the polymerase chain reaction using multiple primer sets. The recently introduced antibody test for hepatitis C virus infection has already proved to be valuable in many situations such as screening blood donors and diagnosing chronically infected patients, but this antibody assay has certain limitations. Hepatitis C virus itself is usually present in clinical specimens at very low titers; therefore a useful assay for the virus must have very high sensitivity. We have developed a simple, highly sensitive assay for hepatitis C virus RNA based on the polymerase chain reaction. In this test RNA extracted from hepatitis C virus-infected serum or plasma is used as the template for double polymerase chain reaction with nested primers. Sensitivity studies demonstrate that this assay is able to detect hepatitis C virus at or beyond the sensitivity level of chimpanzee infectivity. Preliminary studies in chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis showed that 16 of 36 patients positive for antibody to hepatitis C virus and 2 of 4 patients negative for antibody to hepatitis C virus were positive in the polymerase chain reaction test. By retesting the polymerase chain reaction-negative patients with several sets of polymerase chain reaction primers, we found hepatitis C virus RNA in 35 of the 40 patients including all 4 seronegative patients. Normal human plasma and plasma from patients with hepatitis B infection did not react in this test. This assay has proved to be valuable for determining the presence of hepatitis C virus RNA in various samples. Furthermore, it offers the possibility of diagnosis of hepatitis C virus infection in patients who do not react in the presently available antibody tests. 
Importance of bone marrow cytogenetic evaluation before autologous bone marrow transplantation for Hodgkin's disease. Alkylating agents used either with or without radiation therapy have been associated with the development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL) after treatment of both malignant and nonmalignant disorders. This report describes seven patients with recurrent Hodgkin's disease (HD) evaluated for bone marrow transplantation (BMT) who developed chromosomal abnormalities, and emphasizes the importance of bone marrow cytogenetic studies before bone marrow harvest. Three patients with histologically normal bone marrow underwent autologous BMT and subsequently developed an MDS or ANLL. Four patients had the clonal abnormality detected before bone marrow harvest and did not proceed to BMT. 
Recurrent deletion in the human antithrombin III gene. Eight unrelated patients with recurrent thromboembolism, a family history of thrombosis, and plasma antithrombin III (ATIII) activity/antigen levels consistent with a diagnosis of heterozygous type I ATIII deficiency were studied by polymerase chain reaction/direct sequencing of ATIII gene exon-coding regions. Frameshift mutations of one base and two bases, respectively, were found to have occurred in two unrelated patients at the same GAG codon (Glu 245) within exon 4 of the ATIII gene. A literature search showed six further hitherto unrecognized deletion "hotspots" in four other human genes. These deletion-prone sites exhibited sufficient sequence homology with each other to derive a consensus sequence (T G A/G A/G G A/C), suggesting that deletion in human genes may not only be non-random but also sequence-directed. 
Subacute AIDS-related lumbosacral radiculopathy: a bacterial infection? A case of lumbosacral polyradiculitis in an HIV-1-positive man (CDC IIB) leading to a flaccid paraplegia below the level of L4 is reported. A detailed analysis of several cerebrospinal fluid samples led to the suspicion of a bacterial infection. After treatment with antibiotics and tuberculostatic agents the neuropathy improved and the patient has survived for 2 years. In contrast to similar cases that were probably caused by cytomegalovirus in terminal stages of AIDS, it is argued that an unidentified bacterial infection was the cause of the polyradiculitis in the present case. 
Superior vena cava occlusion in a patient with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. A 55-year-old woman with a lupus like disease, associated with the lupus anticoagulant, was admitted because of facial edema. Her facial swelling was previously attributed to the steroids she had been taking and they were tapered without improvement. Laboratory tests revealed high titers of anticardiolipin antibodies. Computerized tomography of her chest and Doppler ultrasound examination of her neck veins demonstrated a thrombus in the superior vena cava. She was treated with heparin and was maintained with longterm warfarin therapy with uneventful followup. Superior vena cava obstruction should be added to the long list of thromboembolic complications of the antiphospholipid syndrome. 
Rupture of the internal elastic lamina and vascular fragility in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. We studied a possible relation between stroke and an enhanced susceptibility to rupture of the arterial internal elastic lamina by comparing stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with spontaneously hypertensive rats, which have a very low incidence of stroke. We quantified interruptions in the internal elastic lamina in certain arteries and studied the effect of beta-aminopropionitrile, an inhibitor of cross-link formation in collagen and elastic fibers, on rupture of the internal elastic lamina and on mortality in these two substrains. To eliminate any influence of higher blood pressure in the stroke-prone rats on the parameters studied, we used antihypertensive treatment to obtain equivalent blood pressures in the two substrains. Results showed that stroke sensitivity was associated with an enhanced early spontaneous rupture of the internal elastic lamina in the caudal artery, an increased susceptibility to beta-aminopropionitrile-induced rupture of the internal elastic lamina, and earlier mortality, mainly from aortic rupture, under beta-aminopropionitrile treatment. These findings suggest that stroke-prone rats have an enhanced minor connective tissue defect that is expressed by rupture of the internal elastic lamina and may be related, at least in part, to their greater vascular fragility and increased susceptibility to stroke. 
A "public" T-helper epitope of the E7 transforming protein of human papillomavirus 16 provides cognate help for several E7 B-cell epitopes from cervical cancer-associated human papillomavirus genotypes. We have identified a major T-cell epitope, amino acids 48-54 (DRAHYNI, in one-letter code) in the E7 open reading frame protein of human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16. Lymph node cells from mice immunized with synthetic peptides containing DRAHYNI proliferated and produced interleukin when challenged in vitro with peptide or whole HPV-16 E7 fusion protein. The T epitope was recognized in association with all five major histocompatibility complex class II I-A and I-E alleles tested. Synthetic peptides consisting of DRAHYNI linked to major B-cell epitopes on the E7 molecule formed immunogens capable of eliciting strong antibody responses to HPV-16 E7. The T epitope could provide help for the production of antibody to several B epitopes simultaneously, including a B epitope of HPV-18 E7 protein. Mice immunized with a peptide containing DRAHYNI and B epitope and, at a later date, infected with recombinant vaccinia E7 virus, displayed secondary antibody responses to E7. Because E7 has a role in cell transformation and is the most abundant viral protein in HPV-associated neoplastic cervical epithelial cells, the data have implications for vaccine strategies. 
Retroperitoneal fibrosis as host response to papillary renal cell carcinoma. A case of papillary renal cell carcinoma associated with retroperitoneal fibrosis is described. This type of fibrosis has not been previously reported to be associated with renal cell carcinoma. The case is of additional interest in that it implicates an immune phenomenon in the pathogenesis of the fibrosis, involving both putative tumor antigens and antigens associated with tumor growth but unrelated to tumor cells. 
Classic Kaposi's sarcoma: T-lymphocyte subsets, T4/T8 ratio, and NK cell activity. Lymphocyte function as expressed by T-lymphocyte subsets and natural killer cell activity was evaluated in a group of Israeli patients with classic Kaposi's sarcoma. T-cell subsets were examined in 28 patients, 14 with lesions limited to the lower extremities and 14 with diffuse cutaneous or systemic involvement. CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes and CD4/CD8 ratio were in the normal range in all patients, and mean values of the entire group were similar to a control group. However, CD8 was in the upper limits of the normal range in some patients with diffuse cutaneous or systemic involvement. This factor led to a significantly decreased CD4/CD8 ratio in that group as compared with the group of patients with the disease limited to the lower extremities. Mean values of natural killer cell activity in three effector/target cell ratios were significantly decreased in 13 of the patients with Kaposi's sarcoma with lesions limited to the lower extremities and in all of the patients with normal T-cell subsets and CD4/CD8 ratios. 
Excision of cavernous angioma with preservation of coexisting venous angioma. Case report. The case of a patient presenting with dysphasic seizures due to a cavernous angioma coexisting with a venous malformation is reported. The cavernous angioma was resected with preservation of the venous malformation, as confirmed by postoperative studies. The patient was seizure-free following surgery. 
Resistance to vecuronium in patients with cerebral palsy. To determine the electromyographic response of patients with cerebral palsy to vecuronium, 10 children (mean age, 6 yr 10 mo) without cerebral palsy and 11 children with cerebral palsy (mean age, 10 yr 3 mo) were studied. All patients were undergoing abdominal or orthopedic surgery and were anesthetized with isoflurane and nitrous oxide. The time from intravenous administration of 0.1 mg/kg of vecuronium to 25% recovery of control twitch height was 43.9 +/- 5.3 and 18.9 +/- 1.7 min (mean +/- SEM) in children without and with cerebral palsy, respectively (P less than 0.01). The authors conclude that patients with cerebral palsy are either resistant to vecuronium or have a rapid clearance as evidenced by the rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade. 
Improved compliance measures: applications in an ambulatory hypertensive drug trial. To assess the value of improved monitoring of medication-taking behavior in a drug trial, we employed a modified pill vial with microcircuitry to record the precise times when the vials were opened. After a 3-week placebo washout period, 21 ambulatory subjects with mild hypertension (mean age, 57 years; 67% men; 76% white) randomly received isradipine or enalapril twice daily in a double-blind titration during 10 weeks. Both drugs achieved a 13% reduction in sitting diastolic blood pressure (p less than 0.01) with minimal symptomatic or laboratory toxicity. Although pill counts indicated near-perfect compliance (92% to 99% for both groups), the electronic monitor showed that fewer than half of all openings occurred at the prescribed interval of 12 +/- 2 hours. Modest overdispensing was documented in the 3 days before scheduled visits. The monitor confirmed that pill count misclassified compliance sufficiency in 22% of visits and permitted more discrete attribution for drug-associated adverse reactions and secondary resistance to treatment. We conclude that the electronic monitor reduces ambiguity about medication compliance and helps interpret both the biology and pharmacology of the trial. 
Influence of contrast media on thrombus formation during coronary angioplasty The influence of contrast media on thrombus formation during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was assessed in 124 consecutive patients undergoing coronary angioplasty and receiving either ionic (n = 57) (Group I) or nonionic (n = 67) (Group II) contrast medium. The presence of thrombus was assessed by qualitative analysis of angiograms in identical pre- and postangioplasty projections by four observers who had no knowledge of other data. Quantitation of stenosis severity before and after angioplasty and qualitative analysis of lesion eccentricity and complexity and of the presence of dissection were also performed. Although the baseline clinical characteristics of the two groups (including presenting syndromes and procedural and angiographic variables) did not differ, more patients in Group II than Group I developed new thrombus during coronary angioplasty (18% vs. 4%, p less than 0.02). In particular, patients with a presenting syndrome of recent myocardial infarction or rest angina, or both, and patients with an eccentric coronary plaque were more likely to develop new thrombus if they received nonionic than if they received ionic contrast medium (p less than 0.05). Patients with new thrombus formation and patients with thrombus present both before and after angioplasty had a high incidence of acute procedural complications (36% and 23%, respectively). Patients in Groups I and II had a similar incidence of ischemic events during follow-up. 
Crackles in patients with fibrosing alveolitis, bronchiectasis, COPD, and heart failure. We have studied the crackling lung sounds of ten patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis, ten with bronchiectasis, ten with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and ten with heart failure by analyzing frequency, waveform, and timing of crackles. The upper frequency limit of inspiratory sounds was higher in CFA than in COPD or in HF. The period of crackling was shorter in COPD than in CFA or BE. Inspiratory crackling terminated significantly earlier in COPD than in CFA, BE, or HF. The initial deflection width and the two-cycle duration of the expanded waveforms of crackles were smaller in CFA than in BE, COPD, or HF. The largest deflection width was smaller in CFA than in BE, HF, or COPD and smaller in BE than in HF. The results indicate that crackling lung sounds in different diseases have distinctive features and that their analysis can be of diagnostic value. 
Effect of coronary reocclusion after initial reperfusion on ventricular function and infarct size. Reocclusion of a coronary artery after thrombolytic therapy occurs in approximately 12% to 33% of patients; however, there are few experimental data concerning reocclusion. Accordingly, to compare the effects of reocclusion versus sustained occlusion on the myocardium, a canine model (n = 12) of 2 h of left circumflex artery occlusion, 1 h of reperfusion and 1 h of reocclusion was studied. In a control group (n = 11), 3 h of circumflex artery occlusion was followed by 1 h of reperfusion. As a result, both groups had the same total duration of ischemia (3 h) and reperfusion (1 h). Hemodynamic measurements, radioactive microsphere injections and two-dimensional echocardiography were performed at baseline, occlusion and reperfusion for both groups and at the end of reocclusion for the experimental group. In vivo risk area was determined with Evans blue dye and infarct size with triphenyltetrazolium staining methods. Similar decreases in myocardial blood flow after coronary occlusion and similar reperfusion blood flows occurred in both groups. Despite intervening reperfusion in the reocclusion group, no significant difference was found in the infarct size/risk area ratio between the reocclusion and control groups (54.5 +/- 6.9% vs. 48.4 +/- 5.1%, respectively, p = NS). Two-dimensional echocardiography demonstrated a similar degree and extent (159 +/- 9 degrees vs. 153 +/- 12 degrees, p = NS) of left ventricular dysfunction with both the occlusion and reocclusion. In addition, there were no significant differences in global or regional left ventricular function between the two groups. However, reocclusion after reperfusion did produce a further deterioration in ischemic zone wall thickening (9.5 +/- 2.0% to 0.7 +/- 1.8%, p less than 0.001). 
Gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors. Fifty-five patients were evaluated and treated for gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoid tumors at our institution from 1968 through 1988. Thirty patients had primary tumors smaller than 1 cm and were treated surgically or endoscopically by local excision, whereas 25 underwent resection with regional lymphadenectomy for larger primaries. At the time of initial treatment 17 patients demonstrated metastasis. Although 13 of these patients had primary tumors larger than 2 cm, in four patients with ileal carcinoids, the primary measured 0.8 to 1.5 cm. Serosal involvement was present in nine of 17 patients with metastasis. With a follow-up range of 3 months to 20 years, six patients have died with metastatic carcinoid tumor, two patients died without evidence of disease, 12 patients are alive with metastasis, and 35 patients are alive, free of disease. In this series three determinants for risk of metastasis in GI carcinoid tumors were evident: primary size, serosal penetration, and primary site in the small intestine. In patients with any of these risk factors, resection with regional lymphadenectomy is recommended. 
Results of a recently instituted programme of thrombolytic therapy in acute lower limb ischaemia. Twenty-eight patients with acute lower limb ischaemia received low dose intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy over a 2-year period. Eighteen patients received streptokinase and ten patients received recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA). Indications included arterial thromboemboli and graft failures. Mean ischaemic times were similar in both groups. Treatment time to achieve lysis was significantly less with rTPA (P less than 0.01). Subsequent vascular procedures, including angioplasty or reconstruction, were undertaken in 36 per cent of patients. Arterial puncture site bleeding occurred in eight (29 per cent) patients. Three (11 per cent) patients suffered rethrombosis after initial successful lysis. All rethromboses were successfully lysed with rTPA. There were two major amputations. Five (18 per cent) patients died, all lytic failures in the streptokinase treatment group. There were no cerebral haemorrhagic events and no patient died as a result of thrombolytic therapy. Good clinical outcome was obtained in nine of 18 patients treated with streptokinase and in nine of ten patients treated with rTPA. Intra-arterial thrombolysis provides effective therapy with high rates of limb salvage and a low mortality rate. This study suggests that rTPA may be a more effective agent, causing less morbidity, than streptokinase. 
Home parenteral nutrition for patients with inoperable malignant bowel obstruction. The use of home parenteral nutrition (HPN) in patients with inoperable malignant bowel obstruction (IMBO) is controversial. The efficacy, safety, and indications for HPN in these patients is uncertain, and its benefit is difficult to demonstrate. The records of 17 patients (9, ovarian cancer; 4, colon cancer; 4, other) with IMBO receiving HPN managed by the Nutrition Support Team (NST) at Yale-New Haven Hospital from 1980 to 1989 were reviewed. Median survival was 53 days and was longest in the two patients with appendiceal carcinomatosis (208 and 159 days), intermediate in patients with colon cancer (median 90 days), and shortest in patients with ovarian cancer (median 39 days). Survival was unrelated to age or sex. All patients died of their underlying disease; 82% of deaths occurred at home. Only one treatment-related complication requiring readmission occurred. Fourteen patients and their families (82%) perceived their therapy as highly beneficial or beneficial. The NST agreed with this assessment in 11 patients but did not share this perception in three patients. These three patients had a short duration of HPN (less than 25 days) or minimal rehabilitation. It is concluded that HPN for patients with IMBO is associated with a low complication rate, may be most beneficial for those patients with gastrointestinal tract primary tumors, and is usually perceived by patients and care providers as beneficial. HPN has palliative benefit and facilitates compassionate home care for carefully selected patients with IMBO. 
Electrophysiologic effects and clinical hazards of carbamazepine treatment for neurologic disorders in patients with abnormalities of the cardiac conduction system. Carbamazepine, a first-line drug for the treatment of epilepsy and neuralgia, may exert hazardous effects on the cardiac conduction system. Standard ECG and long-term ECG monitoring and invasive electrophysiologic testing were carried out in 10 patients who required this drug for neurologic disorders, but in whom its safe use had been questioned because of symptoms of ECG abnormalities. We observed depression of sinus node function and an atrioventricular conduction delay with a significant prolongation of the PQ interval of 16 msec (9%; 95% confidence interval: 1.9% to 16.5%; p less than 0.05), of which the HV interval was significantly prolonged but not the PA and AH intervals. These effects are in accordance with previously shown class 1A properties. However, the lack of effects on QRS, JT, and QT intervals at normal heart rates is a class 1B characteristic. Thus carbamazepine seems to have composite electropharmacologic actions. A cause effect relationship between carbamazepine treatment and significant arrhythmias was established in five patients. Thus the negative chronotropic and dromotropic effects of carbamazepine may, at least in predisposed patients, induce symptoms confusingly similar to the epileptic seizures it is used to prevent. 
KTP laser stapedotomy: is it safe? Recent published concerns about the potential for visible light lasers to injure the inner ear have led to differing conclusions. While one has advised cautious application of a visible light laser, another eschewed visible light lasers in favor of the CO2 laser. Others have anguished over the efficacy of stapes surgeons as numbers of suitable candidates for otosclerosis surgery decline. In three years' experience with the KTP-532 laser, 80 primary and revision stapedotomies have been completed by this author. The author's experience with low morbidity and high air-bone gap closure rates are presented. The absence of apparent cochlear injury suggests that properly used KTP laser systems are safe. Competitive results were obtained with less than prolific numbers of stapes surgeries. 
Distribution of valvular incompetence in patients with venous stasis ulceration. Valvular incompetence associated with venous ulceration can occur in the superficial, deep, or perforating systems. Duplex imaging was used to evaluate 95 extremities (78 patients) with current venous ulceration to determine the location of incompetence in each extremity. In addition, in 91 of the 95 extremities the area of the venous ulcer was evaluated for the presence of perforating veins or any other superficial veins or both conditions. Sixty-three (66.3%) of the 95 extremities had multisystem incompetence (superficial and perforating plus superficial and deep plus perforating and deep plus superficial and perforating and deep), whereas single system incompetence (superficial plus perforating plus deep) was seen in only 26 (27.3%). Isolated deep incompetence was identified in only two extremities (2.1%). Furthermore, 45% (41/91) of the ulcers had no duplex evidence of any venous abnormality in the ulcer bed. These data show that the site of valvular incompetence occurred in multiple locations, that isolated valvular incompetence of the deep venous system was uncommon, and that perforating veins were not always in the ulcer bed itself. Because standard venous surgery has traditionally been directed toward only one system, this may provide one explanation for ulcer recurrence. Therefore complete venous evaluation with duplex imaging allowing for surgical intervention directed specifically to the sites of involvement in each system is recommended. 
Intracapsular fractures of the neck of femur. Parallel or crossed garden screws? The results of treatment in 242 patients with intracapsular fractures of the neck of femur treated with Garden screws are presented with reference as to whether the screws were crossed or parallel. The incidence both of nonunion and of avascular necrosis was less in those fractures treated with parallel screws. The outcome was also superior if the reduction was good. 
Exercise electrocardiography versus dipyridamole echocardiography testing in coronary angioplasty. Early functional evaluation and prediction of angina recurrence. Recently, we have shown the usefulness of high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography testing (DET) as an exercise-independent method for the evaluation of patients having coronary angioplasty. The purpose of the present study was to determine the value of DET compared with exercise testing in the early functional evaluation after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and in the prediction of late recurrence of angina. We performed DET and exercise testing in 52 consecutive patients both before and after successful PTCA. Criteria of positivity for DET were transient dyssynergy absent or negligible in the baseline examination and exercise testing for an ST segment shift greater than 0.1 mV from baseline. All patients had an angiographically successful PTCA: the percent stenosis went from 78 +/- 7% before to 30 +/- 7% after PTCA. Exercise testing was positive in 49 and 29 patients, respectively, before and after PTCA (94% versus 44%, p less than 0.001). DET was positive in 47 patients before and in 10 after PTCA (90% versus 19%, p less than 0.001). Recurrence of angina was found in 18 patients: 14 of 23 with positive and four of 29 with negative exercise testing after PTCA. With DET, recurrence of angina was found in eight of 10 patients with positive and 10 of 42 with negative DET after PTCA. 
Aseptic colon resection by an invagination technique. Experimental study on dogs. A new aseptic colon resection by an invagination technique is presented. The bowel to be resected is invaginated down into the healthy intestine, and the anastomosis is sutured in one layer of continuous suture before transection by a diathermy wire, placed in the intestinal lumen via the anus. Sections of bowel that cannot be invaginated, e.g., because of a tumor, are first removed by transection between pairs of cable ties, which close the lumen. Twenty dogs were operated on without receiving prophylactic antibiotics. In 10, the intestine was transected between cable ties. An imprint, taken from the anastomosis and subcutis, was cultured. The bacterial count at the anastomosis exceeded 100 in only three cases; in the subcutis, this was the case in one dog. One wound infection developed. Serial barium enemas at 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks revealed no anastomotic leakage. One early death because of a total anastomotic dehiscence was encountered, and two dogs were killed because of wound dehiscence and anastomotic stricture, respectively. It is concluded that, in dogs, the method is easily and safely performed, but further experimental studies are needed. 
The cognitive and psychological sequelae of uncomplicated aneurysm surgery. Many patients are left with psychological symptoms after surgery for a ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Often the reason for these symptoms is not clear. A prospective study was carried out of 27 patients who were in a good (Grade 1 or 2) condition before operation to identify the origin of such symptoms and discover whether the basic techniques of aneurysm surgery could lead to serious psychological sequelae even in the absence of any specific complication. Each patient was given a modified psychometric assessment just before surgery and at the time of discharge from hospital. One year later a full psychometric and social assessment was carried out. Even a temporary worsening of psychometric performance did not occur unless there had been some specific surgical or post-operative problem. Five patients showed worsening of psychometric performance in the immediate post-operative period but by one year, only two of the 27 patients showed any abnormalities on formal psychometric evaluation; in both, clear reasons were evident. Although the majority of patients reported minor psychological symptoms, these had not hindered full functional recovery, and we doubt whether they had any organic basis. It is concluded that aneurysm surgery does not, itself, threaten higher intellectual function unless some specific complication occurs. 
Expression of haptoglobin-related protein in primary and metastatic breast cancers. A longitudinal study of 48 fatal tumors. The ability to establish a prognosis for patients with early breast cancer is an important clinical issue. Recent studies have shown that antibodies to haptoglobin-related protein (Hpr) may be useful in stratifying early patients with breast cancer according to their relative risks of recurrence. Nearly 30% of early breast cancers express proteins bearing Hpr epitopes. Hpr-positive breast cancers are more likely to recur after primary resection and are associated with shorter disease-free intervals. This immunohistochemical study examines temporal changes in Hpr expression during the course of disease in 48 patients with fatal breast carcinoma. Thirty-seven primary tumors (77%) were Hpr positive. Ten of the 11 initially negative tumors (91%) were Hpr positive at the time of recurrence. In contrast, only 10 of the 37 initially positive tumors (27%) were Hpr negative with relapse. Of 18 axillary nodes that were examined, 16 (89%) were Hpr positive; all four lymph nodal metastases in patients with initially negative primary tumors were Hpr positive. The authors conclude that the acquisition of Hpr expression parallels increased malignant potential and that Hpr expression, once acquired, tends to remain a permanent characteristic of any given mammary tumor. 
Valve deformity and balloon mechanics in percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy. Percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (PTMC) using balloon catheters has emerged as an alternative therapeutic modality for patients with mitral stenosis. When used initially in the United States, a single balloon, designed for peripheral arterial angioplasty, was passed across the intraatrial septum for mitral dilatation. The results were less than ideal, with resultant valve areas between 1.0 and 1.5 cm2. Double balloon dilatation was introduced and yielded valve areas between 1.5 and over 2.0 cm2. However, the double balloon technique is substantially more cumbersome, requires passage of two catheters through the atrial septum with an incidence of atrial septal defect, and results in significant hemodynamic sequelae during the procedure. This report describes a novel single balloon for PTMC. In contrast to the more conventionally used peripheral arterial balloons, this device was specifically designed for mitral stenosis. Results in 25 patients (mean age 60 +/- 5 years; range 29 to 87 years) showed an increase in value area from 0.9 +/- 0.2 cm2 to 1.6 +/- 0.5 cm2 (p less than 0.001). In contrast to the results reported with conventional balloon dilatation, there was no difference in the resultant valve area or in the incidence of complications among patients with more severely deformed valves compared with patients with more "ideal" valves for commissurotomy. An in vitro comparison of the pressure-volume characteristics of the conventional versus the Inoue balloon showed the latter to be more compliant, reaching nominal inflated diameter at 2.0 +/- 0.4 atm versus 3.3 +/- 0.5 atm for conventional balloons (p less than 0.005). 
Much ado about gastrin [editorial; comment] The regulation of gastrin secretion from antral G-cells is of major importance in the physiologic control of acid secretion. Gastrin secretion is highly dependent upon gastric intraluminal pH and is inhibited significantly by a pH of less than 3.0. Acute gastric alkalinization greater than pH 6.0 with antisecretory agents such as H2-receptor antagonists or H+/K+ ATPase inhibitors has little impact on fasting serum gastrin levels but promotes an enhanced sustained rise in meal-stimulated gastrin release. Courses of standard therapy with both H2-antagonists and H+/K+ inhibitors cause a significant rise in 24 h integrated plasma gastrin levels that is inversely correlated to the 24-h integrated gastric acidity. The rise in fasting or integrated plasma gastrin levels observed in patients treated with H2-antagonists is small and of unclear clinical significance. Therapy with antisecretory agents leads to earlier ulcer relapse than with other agents. A variety of factors have been proposed to explain the earlier ulcer relapse rate, including secondary hypergastrinemia with rebound acid hypersecretion after discontinuation of the drug. Secondary hypergastrinemia may also lead to tolerance to prolonged courses of H2-antagonists therapy with a decrease in acid inhibition. This may contribute to break-through ulcer recurrence during maintenance H2-antagonist therapy. However, the relative importance of hypergastrinemia and tolerance to H2-antagonists compared with other factors such as baseline gastric acid secretion, smoking status, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, and Helicobacter pylori status is difficult to assess. 
The recognition and control of occupational disease. Occupational diseases account each year in the United States for an estimated 50,000 to 70,000 deaths and 350,000 new cases of illness. Often, however, occupational diseases are not correctly diagnosed, because they mimic diseases due to other causes and because most physicians are not well trained in their recognition. Opportunities for prevention and treatment are therefore lost. The occupational history is the most effective means for proper diagnosis of occupational illness. It should routinely be obtained for every patient. A brief but systematic guide for obtaining an occupational history is presented in this report. Also, approaches are summarized for the recognition and diagnosis of such important occupational diseases as occupational cancer, asbestosis and other respiratory disorders, and occupational neuropsychologic disorders. The management and prevention of occupational diseases depend on reduction of hazardous exposures in the workplace and better education of workers, industrial managers, and physicians. This report outlines a program for the control of occupational disease based on (1) preventing exposures in the workplace, (2) premarket toxicity testing of new chemicals and technologies, and (3) astute clinical diagnosis. 
One gram of aspirin per day does not reduce risk of hospitalization for gallstone disease. Data from 4524 patients in a randomized, controlled trial of aspirin were analyzed to determine if aspirin reduced the risk for hospitalization for gallstone disease. Aspirin at a dose of 1000 mg/day did not reduce the risk of hospitalization for gallstones. Hospitalization rates for gallstone disease were consistent with national rates, and the data confirmed previous associations of gallstone disease with age, elevated serum triglycerides, obesity, and female gender. 
Comparison of insect species associated with decomposing remains recovered inside dwellings and outdoors on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. A comparison of insects collected from 35 cases of decomposing remains on the island of Oahu, Hawaiian Islands (14 from indoor situations and 21 from outdoors), yielded a total of 22 species of insects in 3 orders and 12 families. Of these, five species were recovered in both indoor and outdoor situations. Remains recovered indoors had a greater variety of Diptera larvae associated with them, while remains discovered outdoors had a greater variety of Coleoptera species present. Some species of insects were restricted to remains discovered indoors, while others were found only associated with remains in outdoor situations. Knowledge of the species of insects associated with different habitats may serve to provide information concerning the history of the remains. 
What does Cruzan mean to the practicing physician? The United States Supreme Court's recent decision in the Cruzan case declared that the states have broad powers to formulate their own rules in "right to die" cases. The Court held that competent adults have a constitutionally protected "liberty interest" that allows them to accept or refuse medical treatments. Since liberty interests are subject to rational state regulation, the narrow holding in Cruzan affirmed Missouri's authority to require a "clear and convincing" evidence standard to determine a patient's wishes before life-sustaining treatment could be withdrawn from a formerly competent adult now in a persistent vegetative state. For practicing physicians, some of the implications of Cruzan are as follows: (1) For competent adult patients, physicians should respect patient wishes regarding life-sustaining treatment. (2) Physicians also should discuss with competent patients their wishes for life-sustaining treatment at a future time, when a patient may no longer be able to participate in such decisions. (3) Physicians should record these wishes in a legally acceptable instrument that addresses two aspects of care that may arise in the future if the patient becomes incompetent. What would the patient want done? Who would the patient wish to designate as a surrogate or proxy? (4) For patients who are now incompetent, but for whom decisions must be made about life-sustaining treatment, physicians should focus on the previously expressed wishes of the patient rather than on the patient's current quality of life or on the wishes of the patient's family. 
Two cases of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with myelopathy. We describe two patients with autopsy-proven neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis (NAE) presenting only as a transverse myelopathy for 10 to 12 months, followed by disseminated intracranial manifestations. Postmortem examination disclosed a vasculocentric distribution of neoplastic cells in various organs that stained positively with B-lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibody. These cases were unusual because they manifested as an isolated myelopathy for many months. 
An acquired interatrial fistula secondary to para-aortic abscess documented by transesophageal echocardiography. Para-aortic ring abscess and resulting fistulous communication between adjacent structures frequently occur in prosthetic aortic valve endocarditis but are rarely diagnosed preoperatively. We report a patient who had an abscess involving the aortic-mitral intervalvular fibrosa that eroded into the interatrial septum, causing an interatrial communication with a left-to-right shunt. The abscess was detected by transthoracic echocardiography, but the fistula was only seen by the subsequent transesophageal echocardiogram. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an interatrial fistula secondary to a para-aortic valve abscess and its diagnosis preoperatively. Transesophageal echocardiography should be performed in any patient suspected to have complicated aortic endocarditis. 
Postoperative external alimentary tract fistulas. Most series dealing with external gastrointestinal fistulas cover experience of many years and include a heterogeneous sample of fistulas. We present our experience with 117 cases of postoperative external alimentary tract fistulas treated since 1980. Only fistulas caused by anastomotic leaks and operative injury to bowel are included. The overall mortality rate was 37%. The fistulas are classified into four types: type I-abdominal, esophagus, gastroduodenal (mortality rate, 17%); type II-small bowel (mortality rate, 33%); type III-large bowel (mortality rate, 20%), and type IV-all sites associated with a large abdominal wall defect (mortality rate, 60%). The main cause of death was intra-abdominal infection. Seventy-six percent of the patients required further operations. We conclude that despite the availability of all modern diagnostic and management facilities, postoperative external gastrointestinal fistulas treated during the 1980s continue to represent a surgical "disaster." Only prevention and improved methods in the management of the associated intra-abdominal infections could improve the results. 
Chest pain: an evaluation of the initial diagnosis made by 25 Flemish general practitioners. Twenty-five general practitioners collected information on 318 contacts of patients with a new episode of chest pain, discomfort or tightness. A list of complaints, signs and symptoms were checked, together with the initial diagnosis, made by the GP immediately after the physical examination. The initial diagnosis was compared to a follow-up diagnosis. The gain in certainty was also compared. The GP made a correct initial diagnosis in 82% of patients. In 8% there was a clinically important difference, and seven of 17 episodes of oesophageal disease were missed. For their initial diagnosis, the GP scored 74% certain, 20% uncertain and no diagnosis in 6%. For the final diagnosis, these figures were 88%, 8% and 4%. 
Reversible symptomatic biliary obstruction associated with ceftriaxone pseudolithiasis. Ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, has been associated with the development of sludge or stones in the gallbladders of some patients treated with this medication. Such precipitates, which are usually reversible upon discontinuation of the drug, sometimes cause symptoms, have simulated acute cholecystitis, and have even led to cholecystectomy in some cases. We report the first known instance of biliary obstruction and secondary pancreatitis in association with reversible ceftriaxone-induced pseudolithiasis. 
Excimer laser-assisted femoral angioplasty: early results. The ability to ablate atheroma without generating heat makes the excimer laser wavelength a promising intraluminal technique for the treatment of arterial occlusive disease. This series reviews a preliminary experience treating patients with superficial femoral arterial disease admitted with limb-threatening ischemia or claudication. Twenty-six diseased superficial femoral arteries (5 stenotic and 21 occluded) were treated in 23 consecutive patients. Patients with claudication (18) reluctant to undergo bypass or with limb-threatening ischemia (8) at extremely high risk for surgery were included. There were 10 men and 13 women with a mean age of 67 years. A 308 nm excimer laser with an over-the-wire catheter (19) or balloon-centered end-on catheter (7) was used followed by balloon angioplasty. Twenty-four procedures were performed percutaneously, and two were performed with the vessel open in the operating room. Technical success, defined as disobliteration confirmed by angiography and greater than 0.15 increase of the ankle/brachial index, was achieved in 15 of 26. Eleven of 21 occlusions (52%) and four of five stenoses (80%) were opened. Only two of 11 lesions longer than 10 cm were successfully treated. Unsuccessful attempts (technical failure) occurred in 11 of 26 patients and resulted in four elective and one emergency femoral-popliteal bypass. Five patients were discharged with their claudication unchanged, and one had an elective amputation. Six arterial perforations with three arteriovenous fistulas occurred, all resolved without operation. No unanticipated limb loss occurred. In the 15 successful cases, the mean ankle/brachial index increase was 0.34. Seven (47%) of these 15 remain patent with a mean follow-up of 9.5 months (1.5 to 14 months). 
Noninvasive radiological diagnosis of renal vein thrombosis in renal transplantation. Thrombosis of the allograft renal vein is a rare complication of renal transplantation. Of 557 consecutive renal transplants performed between January 1, 1985 and November 30, 1989, 3 cases occurred for an over-all incidence of 0.4%. In 2 cases the diagnosis was made preoperatively with renal scintigraphy and duplex Doppler sonography. No graft was salvaged, despite timely diagnosis in 2 patients. We conclude that the diagnosis of renal vein thrombosis in the renal allograft recipient should be suspected clinically and by the radiographic findings of absent perfusion on renal scintigraphy, and the detection of an arterial signal, albeit abnormal, on duplex Doppler sonography. When diagnosed, nephrectomy appears to be the only treatment. 
Coronary risk factors and the postbypass patient. Atherosclerosis frequently develops in SVGs during the first 10 years. This process appears related to coronary risk factors. Several studies have found an association between hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis documented at pathology. Late changes attributed to atherosclerosis that were observed at angiography were also significantly related to elevated serum levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides. They also were found in association with diabetes, systemic hypertension, and smoking in some studies. Several clinical studies have documented an association of one or several coronary risk factors with postoperative clinical events, including recurrence of angina, myocardial infarction, heart failure, reoperation because of clinical deterioration, and survival. These factors have been shown to act alone or in combination. The most important is an abnormal lipid profile and diabetes. Smoking and hypertension were seldom found to be significant predictors when considered separately, but appear to play an important role in association with the others. Control of coronary risk factors, particularly hyperlipidemia and smoking, seems mandatory in order to prevent SVG atherosclerosis and progression of the disease in the native coronary arteries. 
Prevention of arterial reocclusion after thrombolysis with recombinant lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor BACKGROUND. This study was designed to determine whether arterial reocclusion after thrombolysis can be prevented by lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor (LACI), a physiological inhibitor of tissue factor-induced coagulation mediated by the extrinsic pathway. METHODS AND RESULTS. Thrombosis was induced in femoral arteries of anesthetized dogs with the use of anodal current to elicit extensive vascular injury and formation of platelet-rich thrombi in one artery and with thrombogenic copper wire to elicit fibrin-rich thrombi without appreciable vascular injury in the contralateral artery. Recanalization of both vessels was induced with t-PA (1.7 mg/kg i.v. over 1 hour) and verified with Doppler flow probes. Reocclusion occurred within 2 hours in seven of seven arteries with electrical injury-induced thrombosis and in four of seven arteries with copper wire-induced thrombosis in the absence of LACI. In dogs given infusions of recombinant DNA-produced LACI (225 micrograms/kg over 15 minutes, followed by 4 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) after completion of the infusion of t-PA, no reocclusion occurred during the 2-hour interval of observation in any of the five arteries subjected to electrical injury (p less than 0.001), and cyclic partial occlusions were nearly abolished (0.4 +/- 0.4/hr in LACI-treated dogs compared with 13.7 +/- 5.5/hr in saline-treated dogs, p less than 0.0001). In contrast, reocclusion occurred in two of five arteries with indwelling copper wires, and cyclic partial occlusions were unaffected despite LACI. LACI prolonged the partial thromboplastin time modestly (1.7 +/- 0.2 x baseline) but did not affect platelet counts or aggregation assessed ex vivo. CONCLUSIONS. Inhibition of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation with LACI prevents thrombotic arterial reocclusion after thrombolysis in vessels subjected to extensive vascular injury. Our results demonstrate that activation of the extrinsic pathway plays a critical role in thrombotic reocclusion and that LACI provides a highly targeted approach to facilitate sustained recanalization without directly inhibiting platelets. 
Heterosexual transmission of hepatitis delta virus in the general population of an area endemic for hepatitis B virus infection: a prospective study. A prospective study was conducted in 268 consecutive patients with overt hepatitis to examine the transmission of hepatitis delta virus (HDV) in the general population of an area hyperendemic for hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. The patients were interviewed extensively for potential risk factors associated with transmission. Of the 203 patients with type B hepatitis, 34 (30 men, 4 women) showed serologic evidence of acute HDV infection (HDV+ group), while the other 169 did not (HDV- group). Of the 30 HDV+ men, 27 (90%) had had sexual intercourse with prostitutes within 3 months of admission, while only 31 (22.7%) of the 136 HDV- men, 8 (17.4%) of the 46 men with non-A, non-B hepatitis and 5 (8.3%) of the 60 control men had done so (P less than .001). Of the 4 HDV+ women, 1 was a prostitute and another was the wife of a patient with active HDV infection. There was no significant difference in exposure to other risk factors among these groups of patients. The results suggest that heterosexual exposure, particularly prostitute contact, is the most important route of HDV transmission in the general population of this area endemic for HBV infection. 
Portal-systemic encephalopathy: presence of basal ganglia lesions with high signal intensity on MR images. Sixteen patients with cirrhosis of the liver underwent cranial magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and transarterial portography to evaluate the relationship between basal ganglia lesions and portal-systemic collateral vessels. No neuropsychiatric disturbance was observed in any of the patients at the time of the MR examination, but four patients with portal-systemic encephalopathy were included in the study. Basal ganglia lesions, characterized by increased signal intensity on T1-weighted MR images, were observed in nine of the 16 patients, including the four with portal-systemic encephalopathy. These nine patients had large portal-systemic collateral vessels that were more than 10 mm in diameter. These collateral vessels were receiving blood from the superior mesenteric vein (SMV) in all nine patients. The lesions involved the globus pallidus and portions of internal capsules in a bilateral and symmetric fashion and did not exhibit mass effect. The authors conclude that there may be a significant relationship between high-intensity basal ganglia lesions and large portal-systemic collateral vessels receiving blood from the SMV. 
Bladder substitution with ileocaecal (Mainz) pouch. Clinical performance over 2 years. A series of 11 patients underwent ileocaecal bladder substitution (Mainz pouch) with urethral anastomosis after radical cystectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy for moderate to high grade transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. With 12 to 27 months of follow-up (mean 18), 6 patients are voiding and are dry day and night with timed voidings; 4 patients continue intermittent catheterisation because of inability to perform the Valsalva manoeuvre adequately, and 1 has a suprapubic tube because of stricture of the enterourethral anastomosis. Upper tract studies revealed dilation of 4 of 22 renal units and 1 patient required endourological intervention. Serum electrolyte studies revealed slightly elevated chloride levels in 6, mild hypocarbia in 3, and reduced vitamin B12 levels in all patients, but no megaloblastic anaemia. The Mainz pouch appears to have very satisfactory short- and intermediate-term results. 
Ifosfamide extrapyramidal neurotoxicity. Ifosfamide-associated central nervous system toxicity has been reported in 5% to 30% of patients treated with ifosfamide. Its pattern is characterized by metabolic encephalopathy with confusion, blurred vision, mutism, auditory or visual paranoid hallucinations, seizures, and rarely coma. The biochemical cause of the neurotoxicity is not understood completely, but it is thought to result from an accumulation of drug metabolites with direct central nervous system effects. A case of ifosfamide neurotoxicity is reported that had unusual extrapyramidal features in a patient treated with a 5-day course of infused ifosfamide. Although usually spontaneously reversible with cessation of drug administration, ifosfamide neurotoxicity occasionally has been associated with prolonged psychopathologic sequelae. Death from irreversible encephalopathy has also been reported rarely. The authors believe that classic extrapyramidal symptoms should be considered to be a part of the neurotoxic profile of ifosfamide. 
Preoperative and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy using CISCA (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) in the treatment of invasive transitional-cell carcinoma of the bladder. Fifteen patients with invasive (T2-T4) transitional-cell carcinoma of the bladder were scheduled for three courses of CISCA followed by radical cystectomy and two additional courses of CISCA. Seven patients completed the entire protocol, and 13 completed all the preoperative courses. Seven of 13 patients demonstrated downstaging of their cancers. Of these patients, one has died, one is alive with disease, and five are free of disease at 7 to 38 (mean 17) months. Of the six patients without downstaging, one survives free of disease at 42 months and one is alive with disease 12 months after cystectomy. Downstaging appears to be an important prognostic indicator. Additional studies are being conducted to determine if neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves long-term survival. 
Evolution of the treatment of the injured colon in the 1980s. During the past 10 years, 1006 patients with colon injuries were treated in an urban trauma center. Primary repair, including suture repair and resection with anastomosis, was performed in 614 patients (61%), colostomy in 284 patients (28%), and exteriorized repairs in 83 patients (8.3%). In the remaining 25 patients (2.5%) who were exsanguinating, the colon injuries were ligated. Independent risk factors for adverse outcomes (defined as a fecal fistula, abdominal abscess, stomal complication, or death from multisystem failure) were identified using multiple logistic regression analysis. These factors were used to match patients at similar risk within different treatment groups, and odds ratios for each treatment were calculated. The odds ratios for primary repair, colostomy, and exteriorized repair were 1.0, 1.9, and 2.0, respectively. Therefore, the chance of an adverse outcome was twice as great for both exteriorized repair or colostomy as for primary repair. It is concluded that further increases in the use of primary repair are warranted. 
CD4+ T cell clones specific for the human p97 melanoma-associated antigen can eradicate pulmonary metastases from a murine tumor expressing the p97 antigen. p97 is a human tumor-associated Ag present on most melanoma cells that represents a possible target for immunologic attack. To evaluate the capacity of T cells reactive with this protein to promote elimination of melanoma cells expressing p97, a murine model was developed by transfecting a C3H/HeN melanoma with the p97 cDNA, generating p97-specific CD4+ T cells by in vivo immunization of C3H/HeN mice with a vaccinia/p97 recombinant virus followed by in vitro cloning with soluble p97 protein, and determining whether these CD4+ T cells could mediate rejection of pulmonary metastases. Characterization of the T cell clones demonstrated the presence of both I-Ak and I-Ek-restricted clones, although the majority of clones recognized p97 in the context of I-Ek. Analysis of clonal specificity using truncated p97 proteins revealed that at least three epitopes were immunogenic, and further studies with overlapping 15-amino acid peptides from a region of the p97 molecule defined by these truncated proteins identified an immunodominant epitope responsible for the majority of the I-Ek response. The T cell clones were not capable of directly recognizing the p97-expressing melanoma cells but responded to the tumor if syngeneic APC were present to process the tumor-derived p97 Ag. The therapeutic efficacy of these CD4+ T cell clones was evaluated in an adoptive therapy model in which mice bearing metastatic pulmonary lesions were treated by i.v. administration of the p97-specific cells. Despite the inability of the CD4+ clones to directly respond to or lyse the tumor cells, the clones were effective in promoting tumor eradication. In vitro studies demonstrated that this may have reflected secretion of lymphokines that activated macrophages to lyse the tumor. The results suggest that noncytolytic p97-specific CD4+ T cell clones can be effective in therapy of pulmonary melanoma metastases. Moreover, if human T cells reactive with the p97 protein could be generated, the expression of this tumor-associated Ag in melanoma cells might be adequate for such T cells to mediate a therapeutic antitumor response. 
Facial nerve regeneration through autologous nerve grafts: a clinical and experimental study. Human facial nerve regeneration was compared in two systems: autologous neural cable grafts (N = 56) and direct end-to-end anastomosis (N = 34). The data were analyzed based on the following criteria: facial symmetry and muscle tone at rest, degree of total facial reinnervation, voluntary motion, synkinesis, and electrophysiologic testing. Facial tone and symmetry at rest, and electrophysiologic tests were similar, while voluntary motion and facial reinnervation were decreased and synkinesis increased in the autologous cable graft repairs. Electrophysiologic tests failed to distinguish between the two repair methods in successful regenerates. Neural cable grafts were associated with more mass movement and less fine precise emotive facial movement. Excellent cable graft repair results diminish with time because of continual progressive synkinesis, which may take up to 4 years to develop. Eight-millimeter neural cable graft repairs of the buccal division of the facial nerve in rabbits (N = 8) demonstrate, at 5 weeks, equal myelinated and more unmyelinated axons than in the normal nerve controls. Neural cable graft repairs demonstrate two features not found in the normal nerve: 1. myelin debris and 2. two subpopulations of axons--extrafascicular and intrafascicular. Myelin debris predisposes towards extrafascicular axon regeneration. Extrafascicular axons are the major neurite regenerates (63%). Intrafascicular axons are the major reinnervators of the distal transected nerve stump. Electrophysiologic studies demonstrate decreased conduction velocities which are related to the number and size of myelinated axonal regenerates. The implications for neurite reinnervation of the autologous cable graft and their role in synkinesis are discussed. 
Morbidity and vaginal tubal cautery: a report and review. Vaginal tubal sterilization was once the procedure of choice for interval sterilization. This technique fell out of favor in part because of a perceived increase in morbidity over the evolving laparoscopic techniques. Complications should be minimized by the advent of routine antibiotic prophylaxis and improved operating techniques that allow shorter procedure times. We retrospectively reviewed 240 vaginal tubal sterilization procedures performed by a single physician. Long-term follow-up (more than 5 years) was available in over half the study group (52%). Half of all operations were completed in 12 minutes or less, with an average time of 14.5 minutes. The planned vaginal procedure was completed in all but two cases, both of which required laparotomy secondary to dense adhesions. Median estimated blood loss was 20 mL. No postoperative infection was encountered. These data suggest that vaginal tubal sterilization may still be a safe alternative for interval sterilization. 
Development of cirrhosis after chronic type B hepatitis: a clinicopathologic and follow-up study of 46 HBeAg-positive asymptomatic patients. The rate of HBeAg clearance and the outcome were analyzed in 46 patients with asymptomatic chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection whose condition was followed for 1-4 yr (mean 2.4). Mean age was 32.5 yr (range 10-68), and 28 (61%) were males. All had chronic hepatitis, on biopsy, and were positive for HBcAg on hepatocytes. Alcoholics, homosexuals, drug abusers, immunocompromised patients, and those with advanced liver disease were excluded. During the follow-up, 25 patients (54%) cleared HBeAg and became seronegative for HBV-DNAp. The estimated annual rate of seroconversion was 26%. One patient cleared HBsAg. After seroconversion, 18 patients had no evidence of ongoing liver disease, proved by biopsy in eight and by clinical follow-up in 10 that refused biopsy. A second liver biopsy was available in 15 patients, and HBcAg was negative in all; histology was normal in eight, unchanged in one, and compatible with cirrhosis in six. All six had clinical and/or biochemical evidence of advanced liver disease. These were significantly older at the start of the study, and had chronic active hepatitis with bridging necrosis on initial biopsy. Early identification of patients with silent chronic HBV infection and high levels of viral replication for antiviral therapy could prevent transmission of the infection and stop progression to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Intraoperative colonic lavage and primary anastomosis in nonelective colon resection. In selected individuals requiring emergency colon resection, intraoperative colonic lavage with primary anastomosis represents a safe alternative to staged reconstruction. This procedure achieves excellent mechanical preparation of the colon, facilitates safe anastomosis, and avoids the disadvantages associated with multistaged operations. At our institution, 25 patients requiring urgent segmental resection of the left colon have undergone intraoperative colonic lavage. Primary anastomosis without fecal diversion has been performed in 21 of these patients. Obstruction of the large intestine was the indication for operation in 56 percent of the patients in this series. Ten patients (40 percent) required laparotomy for an acute intra-abdominal inflammatory process. No post-operative deaths have occurred in our series, and no patient has sustained clinically evident anastomotic leakage. A pelvic abscess developed in one patient after sigmoid colectomy for diverticulitis. Three patients required treatment for wound infection. Based on our results, we recommend resection with intraoperative colonic lavage and primary anastomosis as the preferred treatment for the majority of patients requiring nonelective segmental left colon resection. 
Role of endogenous endothelin in the development of hypertension in rats. To further elucidate the pathophysiologic role of endogenous endothelin (ET), we have studied the chronic effect of anti-ET gamma-globulin on the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and stroke prone SHR (SHR-SP) for three weeks. In neither SHR nor SHR-SP did repetitive bolus injection of anti-ET gamma-globulin suppress the rise in blood pressure. The present data suggest that endogenous ET is not likely to play a key role in the development of hypertension, although ET may induce a local vasoconstriction at the injured vascular wall. 
Local toxicity with subcutaneous methadone. Experience of two centers. We report on 8 patients treated with subcutaneous methadone for cancer-related pain at 2 institutions. The success of other subcutaneous agents for pain control has been well demonstrated. It was felt that methadone would be useful due to its low cost. Unfortunately, 7 of the 8 patients experienced adverse reactions at the subcutaneous sites requiring cessation of subcutaneous methadone. 
Potassium accumulation in the globally ischemic mammalian heart. A role for the ATP-sensitive potassium channel. We investigated the contribution of opening of the ATP-sensitive K+ channel to extracellular accumulation of K+ during ischemia with the use of glibenclamide, a specific blocker of this K+ channel. To characterize the electrophysiological effects of glibenclamide during metabolic inhibition (by either application of dinitrophenol or hypoxia) we performed patch-clamp studies in isolated membrane patches of guinea pig myocytes and in intact guinea pig myocytes and studied action potential parameters in isolated superfused guinea pig papillary muscle. We studied the effect of glibenclamide on extracellular accumulation of K+ and H+ in isolated retrogradely perfused globally ischemic hearts of rat, guinea pig, and rabbit. Experimental evidence is presented that supports the conclusions that glibenclamide 1) effectively blocks open K+ATP channels, 2) reverses the dinitrophenol-induced increase of the outward current and prevents the hypoxia-induced shortening of the action potential, 3) decreases the rate of K+ accumulation during the first minutes of ischemia in stimulated hearts, an effect which was entirely absent in quiescent hearts, and 4) does not influence the rate and extent of ischemia-induced extracellular acidification. 
Intracortical osteosarcoma. A case report. Intracortical osteosarcoma (IO) is the rarest form of osteosarcoma. A 19-year-old man had one of these lesions in the upper diaphysis of the femur. Microscopically, IO was a well-differentiated osteosarcoma with an osteoblastic histologic pattern. The typical location in the diaphysis and the peculiar histologic and roentgenographic findings with intracortical origin clearly separate this entity from conventional osteosarcomas as well as periosteal and parosteal osteosarcomas. IO are lytic neoplasms confined to the cortex of the diaphysis with a benign roentgenographic appearance, but are included in the differential diagnosis of benign tumors. 
Surveillance alone versus radiotherapy after orchiectomy for clinical stage I nonseminomatous testicular cancer. Danish Testicular Cancer Study Group. From December 1980 to January 1984, all patients with stage I nonseminomatous testicular cancer in Denmark entered a randomized trial comparing surveillance only with radiotherapy after orchiectomy. One hundred fifty patients were assessable for the final analysis. Relapse occurred in 23 patients in the surveillance group and in 11 patients in the radiotherapy group. Radiotherapy completely prevented retroperitoneal relapse; 14 retroperitoneal relapses occurred in the surveillance-only group. All relapsing patients in the surveillance-only group are without evidence of disease with a median observation time after chemotherapy of 67 months. Two of the patients with relapse in the radiotherapy group died with disease; the others are alive without evidence of disease, with a median observation time after relapse treatment of 72 months. In the surveillance group, four relapses occurred later than 2 years after orchiectomy; only one such late relapse occurred in the radiotherapy group. Four of the retroperitoneal relapses occurred without concomitant increase in the serum marker levels (alpha-fetoprotein [AFP] and human chorionic gonadotropin [HCG]). It is concluded that surveillance only should replace radiotherapy after orchiectomy as standard treatment for clinical stage I nonseminomatous testicular cancer. Improved methods for control of retroperitoneal relapses, especially of embryonal carcinomas, are needed. 
Export of intracellular HBsAg in chronic hepatitis B virus infection is related to viral replication. Serum and liver HBsAg bear an inverse relation to each other during the evolution of chronic hepatitis B virus infection and the quantity of HBsAg in tissue rises gradually with time. In this study, intracellular and extracellular levels of HBsAg were measured by radioimmunoassay in primary culture of hepatocytes from 30 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection to determine a possible relationship with hepatitis B virus replication. Serum levels of HBsAg correlated with markers of active viral replication (serum hepatitis B virus DNA, p less than 0.005, and tissue HBcAg, p less than 0.02) but inversely with tissue HBsAg (p less than 0.05). In similar fashion, in vitro export of HBsAg was also related to the presence of active viral replication markers (serum hepatitis B virus DNA, p less than 0.02, and tissue HBcAg, p less than 0.05) and negatively with tissue HBsAg (p less than 0.001). Export of HBeAg also correlated positively with markers of active viral replication (serum hepatitis B virus DNA, p less than 0.05 and tissue HBcAg, p less than 0.05). Further experiments indicated that intrahepatic pre-S1 and pre-S2 correlated closely with intrahepatic HBsAg, indicating that a failure to export HBsAg was unlikely to be attributable to deficient intracellular expression of pre-S1 or pre-S2. These data indicate that in vitro primary hepatocyte culture of hepatitis B virus-infected cells provides an accurate reflection of in vivo export of HBsAg and that this is closely related to the presence of active viral replication. 
Practical considerations in treating the elderly hypertensive patient. More than half of all older Americans die of cardiovascular diseases. Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, and its prevalence increases with age. Older patients are both at higher risk for end-organ complications and less likely than younger ones to survive such complications as myocardial infarction and stroke. Clinical studies have shown that reduction of elevated blood pressure is beneficial in many older persons. Optimal selection of antihypertensive therapy requires consideration of the special characteristics of the elderly, who differ from their younger counterparts in physiology, response to therapy and frequency of concomitant illnesses and medications. Calcium antagonists are particularly effective in these patients; other agents are useful in selected situations. Drugs that are likely to cause central nervous system side effects or orthostatic hypotension generally should be avoided in this patient population. Therapy should begin with a low dose and be titrated upward slowly, thus avoiding excessive reduction of blood pressure and the development of orthostatic hypotension. Treatment should be altered as necessary to minimize side effects that may impair quality of life or lead to poor compliance. 
Efficacy of dorsal longitudinal myelotomy in treating spinal spasticity: a review of 20 cases. The authors report their experience using dorsal longitudinal myelotomy in treating spasticity in 20 patients with complete spinal cord injuries. These patients suffered from severe painful flexor/extensor spasms that prevented them from wheelchair ambulation and/or their decubitus ulcers healing. All were receiving large doses of various oral drugs, including baclofen, which had failed to control their spasticity, and all underwent a modification of a posterior T-myelotomy as first described by Bischof. All 20 patients enjoyed immediate complete relief of their painful spasms, although two (10%) eventually experienced return of their spasms and are thus classified as long-term failures. Seventeen patients succeeded in markedly reducing, or being completely weaned from, their antispasmodic medications. In 11 of 14 patients, nonhealing decubitus ulcers subsequently healed with treatment. Bladder function was unchanged from the preoperative status in all patients. Chronic intrathecal baclofen infusion has recently been reported as an effective treatment of the spasticity of paraplegia. The results of this study, along with previous reports advocating dorsal longitudinal myelotomy, suggest that this approach is an efficacious alternative to chronic baclofen infusion in reducing spasticity for complete paraplegics. Considering the cost of the infusion pump, along with the fact that chronic intrathecal baclofen therapy necessitates long-term medical supervision, it appears that myelotomy is superior for this select group of patients who have no hope of regaining voluntary motor function. 
Effect of Helicobacter pylori infection on the severity of gastroduodenal mucosal injury after the acute administration of naproxen or aspirin to normal volunteers. This study asked whether Helicobactor pylori infection accentuated the severity of NSAID-induced mucosal injury of the stomach or duodenum. We evaluated the severity of acute mucosal injury and H. pylori status in 61 normal volunteers (ages 22-43 yr) receiving naproxen (1000 mg, n = 30) or aspirin (3900 mg, n = 31) daily for 7 days. NSAID-induced gastric and duodenal mucosa each were endoscopically graded separately for hemorrhages and erosions-ulcers on a scale of 0 to 4. H. pylori infection was identified by a sensitive and specific ELISA. Nine of the 30 subjects in the naproxen group and 12 of the 31 subjects in the aspirin group were H. pylori positive (p = NS). There was no statistically significant difference between the frequency of mucosal hemorrhage in those with and those without H. pylori infection (44% compared with 33% for those receiving naproxen and 90% of those receiving ASA, p = NS for each). There were also no differences in the frequency or severity of erosive mucosal injury seen, e.g., acute ulcers were found in 16.5% and 17.5% of infected and uninfected subjects, respectively. We conclude that the presence of H. pylori infection does not influence the degree or type of mucosal damage associated with the acute administration of naproxen or aspirin. 
Evidence for reduced fibrinolytic activity in unstable angina at rest. Clinical, biochemical, and angiographic correlates. BACKGROUND. The goal of this study was to evaluate the role of the fibrinolytic system in patients with unstable angina at rest associated with transient electrocardiographic changes. METHODS AND RESULTS. Tissue plasminogen activator activity in plasma was comparable among patients with unstable angina (n = 17), patients with stable exertional angina (n = 10), and control patients with normal coronary arteriograms (n = 8). In contrast, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity in plasma was elevated in the unstable angina group (21.67 +/- 9.52 AU/ml) as compared with either the stable angina group (12.01 +/- 7.06 AU/ml, p less than 0.02) or the controls (12.49 +/- 8.54 AU/ml, p less than 0.02). Coronary angiography performed within 24 hours after the last anginal episode showed a similar extent of coronary artery disease in the unstable and stable angina groups. However, intracoronary thrombi were observed in eight patients in the unstable angina group while no thrombus was noted in the stable angina group (chi 2 = 7.22, p less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that patients with unstable angina at rest have a reduced fibrinolytic activity and an increased incidence of intracoronary thrombi. It is postulated that elevated PAI-1 activity in the presence of coronary arterial wall injury may be an important factor leading to the development of acute coronary syndromes. 
Results of multimodal therapy in Ewing's sarcoma: a retrospective analysis of 20 patients. A retrospective analysis was performed of 20 patients with Ewing's sarcoma treated by combined modality therapy, consisting of surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Fourteen patients (70%) achieved complete remission and 5 patients (25%) were in partial remission at the end of treatment. One patient (5%) failed to respond to combined modality therapy. The overall 5 year actuarial survival was 64% and the disease free survival, 55%. Persistent or recurrent disease occurred in 8 patients (40%); one of them was salvaged by surgery and chemotherapy. Site and extent of primary lesion were prognosticators of patients' outcome. One patient developed radiation-related-sequelae. The efficacy of aggressive management consisting of wide surgery, radiotherapy and intermittent high dose chemotherapy is discussed. 
In vitro activity of sparfloxacin (CI-978; AT-4140) against clinical isolates from cancer patients. The in vitro activity of sparfloxacin, a new quinolone, was compared with those of ciprofloxacin and fleroxacin against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, greater than 90% of which were isolated from blood culture specimens of cancer patients. Sparfloxacin was extremely active against Acinetobacter species, Aeromonas hydrophila, Citrobacter diversus, Enterobacter species, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella species, Proteus vulgaris, and Serratia marcescens (inhibiting greater than 90% of these isolates at a concentration of 0.5 microgram/ml) and moderately active against Pseudomonas species, other Proteus species, and Citrobacter freundii. Sparfloxacin inhibited greater than 90% of staphylococci (including methicillin-resistant and coagulase-negative strains) at a concentration of 0.12 microgram/ml and greater than 90% of streptococci (including Streptococcus pneumoniae) at a concentration of 1.0 microgram/ml. It was also active against Bacillus cereus, Enterococcus species, and Corynebacterium jeikeium, organisms that have become fairly common in cancer patients. 
Femoropopliteal arterial occlusions: laser-assisted versus conventional percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Recanalization of 75 femoropopliteal arterial occlusions was attempted with either conventional percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (n = 28; mean occlusion length, 5.5 cm) or percutaneous laser-assisted angioplasty (PLA) (n = 47; mean occlusion length, 11.6 cm). Conventional recanalization was technically successful in 21 patients (mean occlusion length, 4.4 cm +/- 3.9) and was a technical failure in seven (mean occlusion length, 8.7 cm +/- 6.2). The technical outcome was a function of the length of the occlusion (P = .04). The PLA procedure, performed with a laser with a sapphire probe, was a technical success in 32 patients (mean length, 10.7 cm +/- 6.5) and a technical failure in 15 (mean length, 13.6 cm +/- 8.2). With PLA, the length of the occlusion did not determine the technical (P = .20) or clinical (P = .12) outcome. In patients with gangrene, PLA of occlusions longer than 5 cm failed clinically (P = .02). This PLA method appeared to be safe and allowed passage through occlusions longer than 10 cm. 
Mixed acid fermentation of glucose as a mechanism of emphysematous urinary tract infection. Emphysematous pyelonephritis is a severe necrotizing infection that usually occurs in patients with diabetes mellitus or obstructive uropathy. Although glucose fermentation has been considered as the main cause of gas production the actual mechanism remains controversial. Compositions of gas samples from 2 patients with emphysematous pyelonephritis recently encountered were analyzed, and showed 15% hydrogen, 4.8% carbon dioxide, 60% nitrogen, 6.7% oxygen and some unknown gases in case 1, and 3.4% hydrogen, 22% carbon dioxide, 66% nitrogen and 9.8% oxygen in case 2. These results tend to implicate mixed acid fermentation of glucose as the pathway by which emphysematous urinary tract infections develop. 
Carboplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide versus cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide: a randomized trial in stage III-IV epithelial ovarian carcinoma. One hundred sixty-four patients with stage III-IV epithelial ovarian carcinoma were randomized to receive cisplatin (CDDP) 50 mg/mq, doxorubicin 45 mg/mq, and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/mq (PAC) or carboplatin 200 mg/mq, doxorubicin 45 mg/m2, and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/mq (CAC). To administer equitoxic doses at each cycle, the drug dosages were adjusted according to the hematologic toxicities experienced after the previous course; 44.7% of CAC and 21.1% of PAC patients required a dosage reduction at the second course (P = .002). Neither CAC nor PAC caused any clinically relevant neuro-nephrotoxicity; however, CDDP was administered with hydration and forced diuresis, while carboplatin was administered by rapid intravenous (IV) infusion. After six cycles, response rates were superimposable: 62.5% and 66.6% for CAC and PAC, respectively; pathologic complete responses (pCRs) were 16.7% for CAC and 23.2% for PAC; among patients with more than 2 cm residual disease, PAC induced more pCRs than CAC (eight of 52 or 15.4% v one of 42 or 2.4%, P = .07). Median survivals and progression-free survivals (PFSs) were 22.6 and 13.2 months for PAC, and 23.1 and 15.5 months for CAC, respectively; these differences are not significant. In conclusion, this trial demonstrates that equitoxic doses of PAC or CAC result in a similar response rate, PFS, and survival. 
Marshall-Smith syndrome: new radiographic, clinical, and pathologic observations. Radiographic, clinical, and histologic findings in two infants and a neonate with a syndrome of profoundly accelerated skeletal maturation included features closely resembling those of Marshall-Smith (MS) syndrome, but patients had dysmorphic ears as well as distinctive generalized skeletal abnormalities suggestive of a bone dysplasia. Among these was an instability at the craniocervical junction with severe spinal stenosis. These previously unrecognized abnormalities may represent uncommon manifestations within the spectrum of MS syndrome or indicate the existence of a separate disorder. 
Patient and technique survival among an urban population of peritoneal dialysis patients: an 8-year experience. Estimates of patient and technique survival are given for 146 peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients who underwent dialysis between January 1, 1981 through December 31, 1989. In all, 33 patients died and 44 patients changed treatment. Patient survival was 92% at 1 year, 80% at 2 years, and 55% at 4 years, while technique survival was 85% at 1 year, 74% at 2 years, and 47% at 4 years. Cox's proportional hazards regression model was used to assess the effects of sex, age, diabetes, cardiovascular disease (CVD), education, and training time on both patient and technique survival. Both patient age (P = 0.001) and CVD (P = 0.03) had a significant impact on patient survival. On the average, for every 10 years' increase in age, the risk of death increased by a factor of 1.71. Patients with CVD had a risk of death 2.57 times higher than the risk of death among patients without CVD. With respect to technique or method survival, black patients had a risk of changing treatment 2.24 times higher than that for white patients. Our patient and technique survivals are similar to that reported in the national CAPD registry over a comparable period (1981 to 1988). 
Postoperative analgesia after triple nerve block for fractured neck of femur Fifty patients with fractured neck of femur that required surgical correction with either a compression screw or pin and plate device were randomly allocated to receive one of two anaesthetic techniques, general anaesthesia combined with either opioid supplementation or triple nerve block (three in one block) with subcostal nerve block. The nerve blocks significantly reduced the quantity of opioid administered after operation; 48% of these patients required no additional analgesia in the first 24 hours. Plasma prilocaine levels in these patients were well below the toxic threshold, and peak absorption occurred 20 minutes after the injection. No untoward sequelae were associated with the nerve blocks. 
Limitations of faecal chymotrypsin as a screening test for chronic pancreatitis. Faecal chymotrypsin was measured in patients with chronic pancreatitis and in healthy black urban and rural control subjects. In the patients, significantly lower values of faecal chymotrypsin were obtained (mean (SD) 2.4 1.79 U/g stool) whereas in urban control subjects, values were within the normal range (mean (SD) 13.2 (11.9)). In rural black control subjects, however, the faecal chymotrypsin value was significantly lower (mean (SD) 7.1 (5.1)) than in urban black control subjects. It is suggested that faecal pH may influence faecal chymotrypsin values. The mean faecal pH in rural black subjects (pH 6.14) was significantly lower than that in urban control subjects (pH 6.77) and in patients with chronic pancreatitis (pH 6.61). Moreover, mean faecal chymotrypsin is high (20.0 U/g stool) at a pH greater than 7. Between pH 6 and 7 the mean value drops to 8.6 U/g stool and below pH 6 mean faecal chymotrypsin is in the abnormal range (4.4 U/g stool). Hence, low values for faecal chymotrypsin may be due to lower faecal pH (less than 6) in healthy control subjects. For diagnostic purposes, the faecal pH value should be determined if a low faecal chymotrypsin value is obtained. 
The time course of acute psychiatric episodes in systemic lupus erythematosus. Acute psychotic manifestations in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have been considered usually to occur early in the course of illness, although these findings are primarily based on studies with few patients and limited lengths of observation. To further investigate the chronology of acute psychiatric disturbances in SLE, the time course of these episodes was examined in 36 patients over a median duration of observation of 72 months. Twenty-two of 36 (61.1%) initial psychiatric episodes occurred within the first year of diagnosis of SLE, although several patients experienced the initial onset of psychiatric manifestations several years after the onset of SLE. Recurrent episodes occurred in 10 of 36 patients at a median of 8 months after the initial episode. Although tending to occur early in SLE, primary acute psychiatric events may first occur in patients with long durations of illness, and the time of onset of these episodes does not appear helpful in their differential diagnosis. 
Fetal choroid plexus cysts in the second trimester of pregnancy: a cause for concern. Controversy surrounds the issue of recommending cytogenetic studies in second-trimester fetuses with fetal choroid plexus cysts. To assist in clarifying this issue, a prospective study was designed to describe the association between fetal choroid plexus cysts and aneuploidy in a large population. During a 3-year period 7350 women at 15 to 22 weeks' gestation underwent an ultrasonographic evaluation. Fetal choroid plexus cysts were diagnosed in 71 (0.96%) of these pregnancies. Sixty-two of the 71 patients elected to undergo amniocentesis. An abnormal karyotype was identified in four (6.4%) of these fetuses. One fetus had trisomy 21, and three fetuses were diagnosed with trisomy 18. These data indicate that it is reasonable to offer genetic counseling and cytogenetic studies in those patients identified as having a fetal choroid plexus cyst. 
Leukaemia of novel gastrointestinal T-lymphocyte population infected with HTLV-I In a 72-year-old man with watery diarrhoea and leukocytosis the proliferation of abnormal cells was studied in specimens obtained by endoscopic biopsy of the gastrointestinal tract. Flow cytometry of leukaemia cells revealed a monoclonal expansion of "double-negative" (CD4-, CD8-) cells bearing T-cell receptor (TCR) alpha beta products. Southern blotting confirmed monoclonal integration of HTLV-I. A novel T-cell subset of double-negative TCR alpha beta cells in the gastrointestinal tract in adult man may be a target for HTLV-I infection. 
Symptomatic subependymoma: a clinicopathological and flow cytometric study. Twenty-one intracranial subependymomas were reviewed with regard to presentation, diagnosis, operative findings, and long-term follow-up data. The histopathological features were critically reviewed, and deoxyribunucleic acid analysis was performed by flow cytometry. The patients' mean age was 48.5 years (range 32 to 72 years). In 14 cases the tumor was located in the fourth ventricle, in six within a lateral ventricle, and in one in the third ventricle with extension into the lateral ventricle. Radiographic characteristics included isodensity with minimal enhancement on computerized tomography, frequent dystrophic calcification, and isointensity on T1-weighted or slight hyperintensity on T2-weighted magnetic resonance images. The predominant histological features in all cases were those of classic subependymoma. Nonetheless, pathological examination showed a minor (less than 20%) ependymoma component in five cases, significant cytological atypia in seven, mitoses in 11, endothelial prominence in four, and focal hemorrhage-associated necrosis in two. Flow cytometry revealed a diploid pattern in 12 patients, tetraploidy in two, and aneuploidy in one. Two patients died in the perioperative period. Of the remaining 19, 12 underwent gross total resection (two of whom received postoperative irradiation) and seven underwent subtotal resection (five of whom received irradiation). None of the 12 non-irradiated patients developed tumor progression or died of direct tumor-related causes. Of the seven irradiated patients, follow-up imaging studies demonstrated their tumors to be radioresponsive, particularly with doses of 5000 cGy or greater. Despite the presence of cytological atypia and mitotic activity in the majority of cases, the prognostic effects of such factors as tumor location and the extent of surgical resection outweighed those of the standard histopathological parameters. Routine postoperative irradiation is not recommended, but should be reserved for cases with a symptomatic residual or recurrent subependymomas following surgery. 
Effects of fibrin sealant on tubal anastomosis and adhesion formation. The results of the present study suggest that there is no difference in adhesion formation and PR after tubal anastomosis using sutures or fibrin sealant. It appears that the use of fibrin sealant is associated with decreased incidence of ectopic pregnancy. 
Effect of positive end-expiratory pressure on intra-abdominal pressure. Massive elevation of intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) causes renal, cardiovascular, and respiratory dysfunction. Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) markedly increases the detrimental effect of IAP on the cardiovascular system. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of PEEP on IAP. In 15 patients requiring mechanical ventilation, IAP was measured, after 15-minute equilibration intervals, at PEEP levels of 0, 5, 10, and 15 cm H2O. Parametric analysis with multiple paired t tests and nonparametric analysis with Spearman's rho and Kendall's tau tests were used to determine correlation between PEEP and IAP. All patients were male. The mean age was 39 years (range, 18-77). Ten patients had just had laparotomy. No correlation was found between PEEP and IAP. We conclude that PEEP of 15 cm H2O or less has no effect on IAP, and we discuss the clinical implications. 
Differing activities of medullary respiratory neurons in eupnea and gasping. Our purpose was to compare further eupneic ventilatory activity with that of gasping. Decerebrate, paralyzed, and ventilated cats were used; the vagi were sectioned within the thorax caudal to the laryngeal branches. Activities of the phrenic nerve and medullary respiratory neurons were recorded. Antidromic invasion was used to define bulbospinal, laryngeal, or not antidromically activated units. The ventilatory pattern was reversibly altered to gasping by exposure to 1% carbon monoxide in air. In eupnea, activities of inspiratory neurons commenced at various times during inspiration, and for most the discharge frequency gradually increased. In gasping, the peak discharge frequency of inspiratory neurons was unaltered. However, all commenced activities at the start of the phrenic burst and reached peak discharge almost immediately. The discharge frequencies of all groups of expiratory neurons fell in gasping, with many neurons ceasing activity entirely. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that brain stem mechanisms controlling eupnea and gasping differ fundamentally. 
Fistula-in-ano in Crohn's disease. Results of aggressive surgical treatment. The outcome of aggressive surgical treatment of 64 symptomatic anal fistulas in 55 patients with Crohn's disease has been studied. Forty-one fistulas, in 33 patients, were treated by conventional fistulotomy (17 subcutaneous, 19 intersphincteric, 5 low transsphincteric fistulas). Thirty wounds (73 percent) healed within 3 months and eight more wounds (93 percent) healed within 6 months. Three wounds did not heal within 12-18 months. Two of these patients subsequently required proctocolectomy. Wound healing was not influenced by the presence of rectal Crohn's disease or granulomatous inflammation in the tract. No change in continence was experienced by 26 of the 33 patients who underwent fistulotomy. Three patients required proctocolectomy and the remaining four patients experienced minor degrees of incontinence postoperatively. Sixteen high transsphincteric, five suprasphincteric, and one extrasphincteric fistula in 22 patients were treated by laying open external tracts and placing a noncutting seton through the sphincter, which was left in place for prolonged periods to maintain drainage. During follow-up (6 months to 10 years, median 2.5 years), three fistulas healed and seven remained quiescent. Nine patients required further treatment by a new seton and three patients required proctocolectomy. Eight of the 22 patients who had a seton inserted had no change in continence, and six patients in this group developed minor changes in continence, mostly related to diarrhea associated with intestinal disease. Anal fistulas in Crohn's disease, which involve minimal sphincter muscle, can be successfully treated by fistulotomy. High fistulas should be treated with seton drainage to limit recurrent suppuration and preserve sphincter function. 
Long-term visual function in acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy. Acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epithellopathy is a chorioretinal inflammatory disease occurring in young, healthy adults. The long-term visual prognosis and recurrence rate is uncertain. We reexamined 28 patients (53 affected eyes) with acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy (mean follow-up, 8 years) to obtain details on the long-term functional visual outcome. The final visual acuities were 20/25 or better in 48 eyes (90.6%), 20/30 to 20/100 in four eyes (7.5%), and 20/200 in one eye (1.9%). Although the final visual acuity was good, 33 eyes (62.3%) were symptomatic with blurred vision, metamorphopsia, or scotomas. Thirty-six eyes (67.9%) had significant central visual field defects on follow-up examination. There were no recurrences after the initial month of symptoms. The chorioretinal scars did not enlarge with time. Acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy has a good longterm prognosis for visual acuity, although most patients have residual symptoms and paracentral scotomas. 
Cytokine biology. Implications for transfusion medicine. The development and widespread availability of recombinant products will effect blood centers through reduced product use, replacement of current products, and novel applications of new products. The greatest amount of clinical experience to date has dealt with the use of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) in the treatment of anemia in end-stage renal failure. Data also support its use in anemia associated with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), cancer, and chronic inflammatory diseases. This article will focus on the effect of erythropoietin on the demand for erythrocyte use. 
A multicenter, controlled trial of ursodiol for the treatment of primary biliary cirrhosis. UDCA-PBC Study Group. BACKGROUND. In primary biliary cirrhosis the hepatic lesions may result, at least in part, from the intracellular accumulation of potentially toxic endogenous bile acids. Preliminary work suggests that the administration of ursodiol (also called ursodeoxycholic acid), a hydrophilic bile acid without hepatotoxicity, leads to improvement in the condition of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. METHODS. We conducted a two-year, multicenter, double-blind trial to compare the efficacy of ursodiol with that of placebo. Patients with biopsy-proved primary biliary cirrhosis were randomly assigned to receive either ursodiol (13 to 15 mg per kilogram of body weight per day) (n = 73) or placebo (n = 73). Treatment failure was defined as a doubling of bilirubin levels to more than 70 mumol per liter or the occurrence of a severe complication (ascites or variceal bleeding) or an adverse reaction. RESULTS. Treatment failed in 6 patients in the ursodiol group, as compared with 13 in the placebo group (P less than 0.01 by Cox regression model). A single patient in each group withdrew because of minor adverse effects. After two years of treatment, the proportion of patients with clinically overt disease decreased only in the ursodiol group (P less than 0.02). The patients treated with ursodiol had significant improvements in serum levels of bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, cholesterol, and IgM (all P less than 0.001); the antimitochondrial-antibody titer (P less than 0.01); and the Mayo risk score (P less than 0.001). Follow-up analysis of 95 liver-biopsy specimens showed a significant improvement in the mean histologic score (P less than 0.002) and in all the characteristic histologic features except fibrosis only in the group given ursodiol. CONCLUSIONS. Ursodiol is a safe and effective treatment for primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Diuretics after transurethral prostatectomy: a double-blind controlled trial comparing frusemide and mannitol. Mannitol and frusemide were compared in a randomized, controlled, double-blind trial for their effects in promoting diuresis after prostatectomy and on indices of water intoxication. The drugs had comparable diuretic effects. Sodium loss was greater with frusemide, contributing to sodium depletion after operation. Administration of frusemide was associated with more frequent need for i.v. volume expansion after operation. Plasma osmolality was greater with mannitol (289 (SD 4.2 mosmol kg-1 at 1 h after operation and 285 (5.3) mosmol kg-1 at 4 h after operation) than with frusemide (282 (7.1) mosmol kg-1 and 279 (6.7) mosmol kg-1, respectively) (P less than 0.05). Plasma concentration of sodium was significantly greater with mannitol (136.9 (3.1) mmol litre-1) than with frusemide (134.4 (2.8) mmol litre-1) only on the morning after surgery (P less than 0.05). Mannitol is an effective alternative to frusemide in inducing diuresis after prostatectomy, and may protect against water intoxication. 
Altretamine. Altretamine is a National Cancer Institute-designated group C antineoplastic agent used in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. Altretamine is a highly lipid-soluble drug available only for oral administration as a capsule. The drug is activated through metabolic oxidation to intermediate methylol derivatives and formaldehyde. It is unclear which metabolite is the major species responsible for cytotoxicity or the primary mechanism of cytotoxicity. As a single agent in the treatment of ovarian cancer, altretamine demonstrates a response rate similar to other active agents in this disease (21-39 percent). The major utility of altretamine is in combination with other agents such as cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, fluorouracil, melphalan, and cisplatin. However, few randomized trials have evaluated the contribution of altretamine in these multiagent combinations. Dose-limiting toxicities include gastrointestinal (nausea, vomiting, anorexia), hematologic, and neurotoxic (peripheral neurotoxicity). The therapeutic role of altretamine is limited because of a toxicity profile similar to that of cisplatin, one of the more active agents in ovarian cancer. Its use should be reserved for patients who are not candidates for more standard platinum-based regimens. 
Detection of DNA sequence polymorphisms by enzymatic amplification and direct genomic sequencing. The discovery of RFLPs and their utilization as genetic markers has revolutionized research in human molecular genetics. However, only a fraction of the DNA sequence polymorphisms in the human genome affect the length of a restriction fragment and hence result in an RFLP. Polymorphisms that are not detected as RFLPs are typically passed over in the screening process though they represent a potentially important source of informative genetic markers. We have used a rapid method for the detection of naturally occurring DNA sequence variations that is based on enzymatic amplification and direct sequencing of genomic DNA. This approach can detect essentially all useful sequence variations within the region screened. We demonstrate the feasibility of the technique by applying it to the human retinoblastoma susceptibility locus. We screened 3,712 bp of genomic DNA from each of nine individuals and found four DNA sequence polymorphisms. At least one of these DNA sequence polymorphisms was informative in each of three families with hereditary retinoblastoma that were not informative with any of the known RFLPs at this locus. We believe that direct sequencing is a reasonable alternative to other methods of screening for DNA sequence polymorphisms and that it represents a step forward for obtaining informative markers at well-characterized loci that have been minimally informative in the past. 
Prevention of thromboembolic disease following total knee arthroplasty. Epidural versus general anesthesia. Seventy-two patients were randomized into a prospective clinical trial to evaluate the effects of epidural (EA) versus general anesthesia (GA) on the incidence of thromboembolic disease (TED) following total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Males received aspirin 650 mg po bid and females low-dose warfarin daily to maintain the prothrombin time at 15 to 16 seconds for pharmacologic prophylaxis against TED. Thirty-four patients had EA and 38 GA for their primary TKA. Contrast venography and ventilation-perfusion scanning were performed on the sixth, seventh, and eighth postoperative days, and these were interpreted in a blinded fashion. The mean age of the 45 males and 27 females was 64 years (range, 42-84 years). There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to hematocrit, operative time, blood loss, number of units transfused, or hospital stay. Twelve of the 34 patients (35%) receiving an EA and 10 of the 38 patients (26%) receiving GA developed TED, an overall incidence of 31% (p greater than 0.05) Fifty-three percent of the clots were located in the popliteal vein above the trifurcation or more proximal. However, the incidence of proximal vein thrombosis was significantly less in patients receiving an EA (46%) rather than a GA (64%). The incidence and distribution of clots was not affected by the type of pharmacologic prophylaxis, gender, or use of methylmethacrylate. Ten percent of the patients had a positive scan by strict criteria and were thought to have a pulmonary embolism (PE). In patients with a femoral vein clot, the incidence of PE was 67%. One bleeding complication occurred in a patient who took double the appropriate warfarin dose. 
Comparison of the predictive characteristics of heart rate variability index and left ventricular ejection fraction for all-cause mortality, arrhythmic events and sudden death after acute myocardial infarction. Heart rate (HR) variability index and left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) were compared for the prediction of all-cause mortality, arrhythmic events and sudden death in 385 survivors of acute myocardial infarction. For arrhythmic events, where, for a sensitivity of 75%, HR variability index had a specificity of 76%, EF had a specificity of only 45%. An EF of less than or equal to 40% had a sensitivity of 42% and a specificity of 75% for arrhythmic events; for the same sensitivity an HR variability index of 20 U had a specificity of 92%. An EF less than or equal to 40% had a sensitivity of 40% and a specificity of 73% for sudden death; HR variability index had a specificity of 83% for the same sensitivity. For all cause mortality, where, for a sensitivity of 75%, HR variability index had a specificity of 52%, EF had a specificity of 40%. It is concluded that HR variability index appears a better predictor of important postinfarction arrhythmic complications than left ventricular EF, but both indexes perform equally well in predicting all-cause mortality. 
A clinical perspective on common forms of acquired heterotopic ossification. The clinical courses of heterotopic ossification (HO) as a consequence of trauma and central nervous system insults have many similarities as well as dissimilarities. Detection is commonly noted at two months. The incidence of clinically significant HO is 10%-20%. Approximately 10% of the HO is massive and causes severe restriction in joint motion or ankylosis. The most common sign and symptom are decreased range of motion and pain. The locations are the proximal limbs and joints. Sites of HO about a joint may vary according to the etiology of the HO. Roentgenographic evolution of HO occurs during a six-month period in the majority of patients. Treatment modalities include diphosphonates, indomethacin, radiation, range of motion exercises, and surgical excision. Surgical timing differs according to etiology: traumatic HO may be resected at six months; spinal cord injury HO is excised at one year; and traumatic brain injury HO is removed at 1.5 years. A small number of patients have progression of HO with medicinal treatment and recurrence after resection. The patients seem recalcitrant to present treatment methods regardless of the HO etiology. 
Radiation therapy to prevent heterotopic ossification after cementless total hip arthroplasty. Clinical and roentgenographic observations on a postoperative low-dose radiation of 1000 cGy for prevention of heterotopic ossification in high-risk patients after 48 noncemented total hip arthroplasties demonstrated no overall statistical difference in the Harris hip scores between the treated group (92.2) and the control group (91.0). There was no difference in the incidence of radiolucent lines about the components, and there were no revisions for aseptic loosening in the treated group. The incidence of clinically significant (Brooker Grades III and IV) heterotopic bone formation was lower in the treated group (7%) than in the control group (32%). This difference in the incidence of heterotopic bone formation was statistically significant. Radiation therapy was effective in preventing postoperative heterotopic bone formation in biologically fixed total hip implants. 
The atrial natriuretic factor hormonal system in the regulation of sodium excretion in dogs with experimental heart failure. In response to a meat meal containing 125 mEq of sodium, conscious dogs (n = 5) with an arteriovenous (AV) fistula and chronic compensated heart failure exhibited temporally related increases in postprandial plasma immunoreactive atrial natriuretic factor (iANF), right atrial pressure, and sodium excretion. In separate experiments, two weeks of dietary sodium restriction produced similar marked stimulation of renin and aldosterone both in normal dogs (n = 5), and in AV fistula dogs (n = 5) with chronic high circulating levels of ANF. Plasma iANF did not change (P greater than .05) in either group. These results suggest that the ANF system is involved in the postprandial regulation of sodium excretion in the AV fistula dogs with compensated heart failure. In the postabsorptive state, however, the activity of the renin-aldosterone axis is closely related to dietary sodium intake and appears to function independently of the ANF system for the prevention of sodium loss. 
Analysis of auditory comprehension performance in individuals with severe aphasia. This research compared the performance of 20 individuals with global and mixed nonfluent aphasia across the four auditory comprehension subtests of the Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination (Word Discrimination, Body Part Identification, Commands, and Complex Ideational Material) and across the six subcomponents of the Word Discrimination Subtest (objects, actions, letters, colors, forms, and numbers). As expected, group means revealed severely reduced performance which was equally observable across all auditory comprehension tasks. To determine whether individual subjects demonstrated a pattern of consistently reduced performance for auditory comprehension tasks, z-scores and chi-square statistics were also calculated for each subject and task. The individuals with global aphasia demonstrated a greater number of statistically significant z-scores than was expected by chance. This was not true for the subjects with mixed nonfluent aphasia. Results of this research indicate that although as a group individuals with global aphasia may demonstrate consistently reduced auditory comprehension, when considered on an individual basis, this group may comprise a somewhat divergent population with respect to the configuration of preserved and impaired auditory comprehension skills. 
Cancer occurrence in a cohort of patients surgically treated for peptic ulcer. A cohort of 4107 patients treated surgically for peptic ulcer between 1955 and 1960 was followed up to determine the incidence of cancer by record linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry. A total of 930 cases of cancer were observed during 76,634 person-years. Relative risks of cancer were computed by comparison with the recorded cancer incidence in the Danish population. During the first five years after surgery the relative risk of gastric cancer was slightly increased (RR = 1.43), but 5-15 years after the operation the risk was lower than expected (RR = 0.55). Thereafter, the relative risk of gastric cancer increased steadily and increased more than twofold after 25 years. Lung cancer occurred more frequently in the cohort members than expected (RR = 1.66), but the relative risk was independent of time since surgery. Malignancies other than gastric cancer and cancers related to tobacco smoking were close to the expected numbers. The results do not support the findings of a recent British study of similar size in which increased risks were reported for cancer at other sites. 
Liver damage caused by therapeutic vitamin A administration: estimate of dose-related toxicity in 41 cases. Clinical presentation, changes in liver function test results, and liver morphology were examined in 41 consecutive patients with vitamin A hepatoxicity. The cause of liver disease was suspected at initial interview in only 13 instances, whereas histological evidence of fat-storing cell hyperplasia with fluorescent vacuoles led to the diagnosis in the remaining cases. Cirrhosis was found in 17, mild chronic hepatitis in 10, noncirrhotic portal hypertension in 5, and "increased storage" alone in 9 cases. During a mean follow-up period of 4.6 years, 6 patients died of causes related to the liver disease. A precise appraisal of drug consumption was obtained in 29 cases. Among them the total cumulative intake was the highest in patients with cirrhosis (423 +/- 103 x 10(6) IU) and significantly lower in those with noncirrhotic liver disease (88.5 +/- 41; P less than 0.02). The smallest continuous daily consumption leading to cirrhosis was 25,000 IU during 6 years, whereas higher daily doses (greater than or equal to 100,000 IU) taken during 21/2 years resulted in similar histological lesions. It was concluded that at least in some western countries chronic vitamin A consumption might represent an appreciable cause of chronic liver disease, the recognition of which mainly relies on expert liver biopsy interpretation. The data also indicate that prolonged and continuous consumption of doses in the low "therapeutic" range can result in life-threatening liver damage. 
Accurate prediction of death by serial determination of galactose elimination capacity in primary biliary cirrhosis: a comparison with the Mayo model. We retrospectively analyzed the predictive accuracy of serial determinations of galactose elimination capacity in 61 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Death was predicted from the time that the regression line describing the decline in galactose elimination capacity vs. time intersected a value of 4 mg.min-1.kg-1. Thirty-one patients exhibited decreasing galactose elimination capacity; in 11 patients it remained stable and in 19 patients only one value was available. Among those patients with decreasing galactose elimination capacity, 10 died and three underwent liver transplantation; prediction of death was accurate to 7 +/- 19 mo. This criterion incorrectly predicted death in two patients with portal-vein thrombosis; otherwise, it did better than or as well as the Mayo clinic score. The latter was also tested on our patients and was found to adequately describe risk in yet another independent population of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Cox regression analysis selected only bilirubin and galactose elimination capacity, however, as independent predictors of death. We submit that serial determination of galactose elimination capacity in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis may be a useful adjunct to optimize the timing of liver transplantation and to evaluate new pharmacological treatment modalities of this disease. 
Multimodal therapy for the management of localized Ewing's sarcoma of pelvic and sacral bones: a report from the second intergroup study. A total of 59 eligible patients with localized Ewing's sarcoma of the pelvic and sacral bones were entered into a multimodal Intergroup Ewing's Sarcoma Study (IESS-II) (1978 to 1982) and compared with a historical control series of 68 patients entered into an earlier multimodal Intergroup Ewing's Sarcoma Study (IESS-I) (1973 to 1978). High-dose intermittent multiagent chemotherapy (vincristine, cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin [doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH], and dactinomycin) was given to all patients for 6 weeks before and for 70 weeks following local therapy. All patients who had a tumor biopsy or incomplete resection performed received a dose of 55 Gy to the tumor bed. With a median follow-up time of 5.5 years, two of 59 patients (3%) had a local recurrence, five patients (8%) had a local recurrence and metastases, and 17 patients (29%) developed metastases only. There was significant statistical evidence of an advantage in relapse-free survival (RFS) and survival (S) for patients on IESS-II versus IESS-I, P = .006 and P = .002, respectively. At 5 years, the comparison between IESS-II versus IESS-I was 55% versus 23% for RFS and 63% versus 35% for S. 
Urticaria pigmentosa and preleukemia: evidence for reactive mast cell proliferation. A 64-year-old man had urticaria pigmentosa and myelodysplasia (refractory anemia with excess blast cells; partial trisomy 8 syndrome) without increased numbers of marrow mast cells. Clonal marrow assays in agar demonstrated normal to increased colony-forming units of granulocytes/macrophages. In long-term liquid cultures containing mast cell growth factor (interleukin 3), his marrow cells proliferated after 3 weeks to produce abnormal myeloid precursors similar to those in the corresponding marrow aspirate specimen. Cells with basophilic-staining granules were less abundant in comparison with normal marrow specimens cultured similarly. These results suggest that the mast cells in this patient are not of the same clone as the preleukemic marrow cells, although the possible marrow-cell origin of urticaria pigmentosa mast cells cannot be excluded. Previous reports suggest that urticaria pigmentosa without systemic mastocytosis occurs as a nonspecific abnormality in a variety of myeloid, lymphoid, and nonhematologic malignancies. Our data also support this hypothesis that urticaria pigmentosa is a reactive process rather than a manifestation of clonal proliferation of the primary malignancy. 
Norepinephrine response to exercise of rats with a chronic myocardial infarction. Plasma and tissue norepinephrine (NE) concentrations were determined at rest and after 45 min of swimming in rats with a surgically induced myocardial infarction (MI) and in rats having undergone a sham operation (SHAM). The MI rats had moderate-sized infarcts and demonstrated decreases in maximal O2 uptake (VO2max) that are consistent with the contention that the animals possessed a significant amount of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and chronic heart failure (CHF). Plasma NE concentrations measured at rest were not significantly different between the SHAM and MI groups of rats, although a strong trend was found for the plasma NE concentrations to be elevated in the MI group. The plasma NE responses to 45 min of swimming at the same absolute submaximal workload were similar in the two groups of rats in light of the fact that the MI group of rats exercised at a greater percentage of their VO2max when compared with their SHAM counterparts. Exercise produced significant reductions in the NE concentrations of the diaphragm, vastus lateralis, red portion of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and vastus intermedius muscles for both the SHAM and MI groups of rats. In addition, the NE concentrations measured in both the soleus and red portion of the gastrocnemius muscle were significantly greater in the MI rats when compared with their SHAM counterparts for both rest and exercise conditions. The results from the present study support the hypothesis that the sympathetic response to exercise is either unchanged or attenuated in MI rats that have a significant amount of LV dysfunction and CHF. 
The effect of prostaglandin E1 on acute pulmonary artery hypertension during oleic acid-induced respiratory dysfunction. This study examined the general effect of intravenous PGE1 on RV Ees and effective PA elastance (EA) during acute pulmonary hypertension associated with oleic acid infusion. In eight pigs, RV end-systolic elastance was quantified with the Ees and Ea was defined with reference to the Windkessel model. Oleic acid infusion increased mean PAP and Ea. Prostaglandin E1 reduced PAP and decreased Ea. Ees did not change throughout the study. Mean arterial pressure was reduced and the pulmonary shunt was increased after PGE1 infusion. The PaO2 was reduced. Data from this study suggest that although PGE1 is effective in reducing PAP, it is not as effective in reducing RV afterload. Furthermore, PGE1 does have significant side effects such as reduction of systemic arterial pressure and an increase in pulmonary shunt. 
Naltrexone in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea and in the normal luteal phase. Fifteen young women with a diagnosis of secondary hypothalamic amenorrhea of at least 2 years' duration were given either 50 mg naltrexone daily or placebo, following a randomized double-blind crossover scheme. Seven patients did not menstruate with either therapy. In the other eight, the following results were recorded (mean +/- SD and range): a cycle length of 28.7 +/- 7.6 (12-45) days for naltrexone compared with 30.8 +/- 5.9 (16-43) days for placebo, a follicular phase length of 20.8 +/- 5.4 (14-34) days for naltrexone and 23.2 +/- 4.3 (19-32) days for naltrexone and 8.3 +/- 1.6 (5-10) days for placebo. The number of ovulatory cycles was 18 of 24 (75%) with naltrexone and eight of 24 (33%) with placebo (P less than .05). Most luteal phases were short. In five normally menstruating women, we gave either naltrexone or placebo in the luteal phase using a crossover blinded scheme. Steroidogenesis in the normal luteal phase was not impaired by naltrexone therapy. In functional hypothalamic amenorrheic patients with normal weight, menstruation might be restored by either placebo or naltrexone, but naltrexone provides a clinical and therapeutic advantage by increasing the ovulation rate. 
Multiple site avascular necrosis in HIV infected patients. We describe avascular necrosis at multiple sites in 2 young adults. This is a condition rarely seen except in hypercortisonism or hemoglobinopathies. In one case, it occurred in the first trimester of pregnancy. No obvious cause of osteonecrosis could be found but both patients were infected by the HIV. The role of the latter in the bone necrosis is questionable. 
Impact of age, race, and obesity on hypertensive mechanisms and therapy. Despite the demonstrated efficacy of traditional antihypertensive therapy in reducing blood pressure, hypertension continues to be a major cause of cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. Stepped-care therapy is a nonphysiologic approach that, due to potential metabolic derangements and stimulation of undesirable reflex responses, may not substantially reduce the cardiovascular and renal complications associated with hypertension or improve long-term survival in many hypertensive patients. Because of fundamental hemodynamic differences related to the age, race, and weight of hypertensive patients, drug treatment often elicits varying responses. Certain classes of drugs are not only more effective but also more appropriate from a physiologic standpoint in specific types of patients. Therapy selection based in part on hemodynamic mechanisms and demographic patterns is a more rational approach to patient management and may contribute to a better overall outcome than has been observed with conventional treatment. 
A prospective evaluation of intracoronary ethanol ablation of the atrioventricular conduction system. The clinical efficacy and complications associated with ablation of the atrioventricular (AV) conduction system by the selective infusion of ethanol into the AV node artery were prospectively assessed in 12 consecutive patients with medically refractory atrial arrhythmias. Six of the patients had previously failed to have permanent complete AV block created with direct current or radiofrequency catheter ablation. The AV node artery was cannulated with a 0.016 in. (0.041 cm) guide wire in all 12 patients. It was also possible to advance a 2.7F infusion catheter into the AV node artery in all patients. Transient AV block was induced by selective injections into the AV node artery of iced saline solution (8 patients) and of radiographic contrast agent (ioxaglate) (10 patients). The infusion of 2 ml of ethanol (96%) induced immediate complete AV block in all 10 patients who demonstrated AV block with ioxaglate. The escape rhythm exhibited a narrow QRS complex preceded by a His bundle deflection in nine patients and left bundle branch block in one patient. The immediate mean rate of the escape rhythm was 45.3 +/- 13.4 beats/min. In two patients who demonstrated reflux of contrast agent into the distal right coronary artery with selective injections into the AV node artery, transient ST segment elevation developed in the inferior electrocardiographic leads with the infusion of ethanol. There was no change in the left ventricular ejection fraction from the baseline value (0.53 +/- 0.12) to that measured after ablation (0.55 +/- 0.11) and no patient developed wall motion abnormalities. 
Surgical approaches for resection of heterotopic ossification in traumatic brain-injured adults. The site of heterotopic ossification (HO) at the elbow or the hip dictates the surgical approach for resection. Three approaches are used for HO resection at the elbow: (1) a posterolateral approach for posterolateral HO; (2) an anterolateral approach for anterior HO; and (3) a medical approach for medial or posteromedial HO or anterior transfer of the ulnar nerve. Two approaches are recommended for resection of HO at the hip: (1) an anterior approach for anterior or inferomedial HO and (2) a posterior approach for posterior HO. Posterior HO is often associated with a hip-flexion contracture, and an anterior soft-tissue release may be necessary as well. Physical examination indicates the prognosis for functional improvement as well as recurrence. Patients with a near normal neurologic recovery have minimal to no HO recurrence with improved limb function and increased joint motion, whereas a poor neurologic recovery and persistent spasticity are associated with recurrence of HO and no functional limb improvement. Standard roentgenograms aid in selecting the appropriate surgical approach. Radiation, indomethacin, and diphosphonates have been administered for prophylaxis. Physical therapy is necessary until range of motion stabilizes. 
Role of sinus node artery disease in sick sinus syndrome in inferior wall acute myocardial infarction. This study was undertaken to evaluate a possible role of sinus node (SN) artery disease in the pathogenesis of sick sinus syndrome (SSS) in patients with an inferior wall acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Coronary angiography and electrophysiologic studies of the SN, both in the basal state and after pharmacologic autonomic blockade, were performed in 23 study patients (mean age 60 years) with SSS and a previous inferior wall AMI and in another 23 control patients (mean age 57 years) with normal sinus rate and a previous inferior AMI. Stenosis of the SN artery (or that proximal to its origin) greater than 50% was present in 13 study patients (56%) and in 8 control patients (34%) (p less than 0.05). In the study group, the intrinsic heart rate was abnormal in 5 of the 6 patients (83%) with severe SN artery stenosis (greater than or equal to 75% narrowing), in 3 of the 7 (43%) with moderate stenosis (50 to 75% narrowing) and in 3 of the 10 (30%) with insignificant stenosis (less than 50% narrowing). In the study group, the correlation between the SN measures (heart rate, corrected SN recovery time and sinoatrial conduction time) and the severity of SN artery stenosis was good after autonomic blockade (r between 0.59 and 0.64) and poor in the basal state. These data provide evidence for a role of SN artery disease in the pathogenesis of SSS in patients with an inferior wall AMI. 
Transforming growth factor-alpha, epidermal growth factor receptor, and proliferating potential in benign and malignant gliomas. Surgical specimens from six benign and 16 malignant human gliomas were investigated immunohistochemically to correlate the degree of malignancy, the distribution of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor, and the potential for cell proliferation using monoclonal antibodies to TGF-alpha, EGF receptor, and Ki-67. Fourteen (88%) of the malignant gliomas and one (17%) of the benign gliomas were found to be positive for TGF-alpha, and 14 (88%) of the malignant gliomas and two (33%) of the benign gliomas expressed EGF receptor. The proliferation index with Ki-67 was 18.8% +/- 8.1% (mean +/- standard deviation) in malignant gliomas and 1.9% +/- 1.8% in benign gliomas. In general, cells positive for EGF receptor and Ki-67 were randomly distributed throughout the tumor tissue, and cells positive for TGF-alpha tended to be clustered without obvious relationship to areas of necrosis or blood vessels. In some tumors, cells positive for TGF-alpha, EGF receptor, and Ki-67 were associated in a focal distribution. The more frequent expression of TGF-alpha and EGF receptor in the highly proliferative malignant gliomas is compatible with a role for TGF-alpha and EGF receptor in the induction or stimulation of malignant gliomas. 
Temporal relationships between plasma and cerebrospinal fluid pharmacokinetics of levodopa and clinical effect in Parkinson's disease. We studied the pharmacokinetics of levodopa and its metabolites in plasma and ventricular cerebrospinal fluid in 4 parkinsonian patients with indwelling Ommaya reservoirs placed at the time of previous adrenal-medullary to caudate nucleus transplantation. Cerebrospinal fluid levodopa levels were 11.9% of those in plasma. Motor performance and dyskinesia correlated more closely with the time course of the appearance of levodopa in the ventricular cerebrospinal fluid than with the plasma levodopa concentration and did not correlate with plasma 3-O-methyldopa or cerebrospinal fluid 3-O-methyldopa or homovanillic acid. Our data confirm that the wearing off of the levodopa effect in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease is a function of drug concentration in the central nervous system. 
Human response against NP-4, a mouse antibody to carcinoembryonic antigen: human anti-idiotype antibodies mimic an epitope on the tumor antigen. Anti-idiotype antibodies (Ab2) were purified from a cancer patient treated with NP-4, a murine monoclonal antibody to carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). These Ab2 were specific for NP-4 and inhibited the binding between NP-4 and CEA. BALB/c mice immunized with these human Ab2 produced anti-Ab2 antibodies that were also reactive with the CEA epitope recognized by NP-4. These results indicate that human Ab2 to NP-4 can antigenically mimic the CEA epitope recognized by NP-4. 
Detection of chimeric BCR-ABL genes in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia by the polymerase chain reaction Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is most common in adults and is associated with poor prognosis. Since karyotypic identification of the Philadelphia translocation has been hampered by technical difficulties, we used the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to look for the BCR-ABL rearrangement in stored samples from a selected group of 314 German ALL patients. BCR-ABL transcripts were found in 77 of 179 adults and were restricted to those with B-precursor leukaemias. 55% of adult common ALL patients had BCR-ABL and its presence correlated with poor overall survival and remission duration. Of 135 children with common ALL, 5 (6%) primary cases and 8 (17%) with recurrent neoplasias were PCR-positive. We recommend prospective evaluation of BCR-ABL analysis with PCR in patients with a B-precursor leukaemia. 
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy characterized by marked hypertrophy of the posterior left ventricular free wall: significance and clinical implications. This report describes a subgroup of 17 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and an unusual and distinctive pattern of left ventricular hypertrophy characterized on echocardiography by marked thickening of the posterior left ventricular free wall and virtually normal or only modestly increased ventricular septal thickness. This distribution of hypertrophy often created a distinctive pattern of "inverted" asymmetry of the posterior wall relative to the septum. The thickness of the posterior wall was 20 to 42 mm (mean 25), while that of the basal ventricular septum was only 12 to 24 mm (mean 17). The left ventricular outflow tract was narrowed because of anterior displacement of the mitral valve within the small left ventricular cavity. Systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve was present in 16 of the 17 patients. The patients ranged in age from 13 to 54 years (mean 31) at most recent evaluation; most (11 of 17, 65%) were severely symptomatic and had experienced important symptoms early in life (before age 40). The condition of only 4 of these 11 patients improved with medical therapy over an average follow-up period of 9 years; however, 6 of the 7 patients who had unsuccessful medical treatment and underwent operation with mitral valve replacement (5 patients) or ventricular septal myotomy-myectomy (1 patient) experienced symptomatic benefit from surgery. The subgroup of patients described in this report underscores the morphologic and clinical diversity that exists within the overall disease spectrum of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Characteristically, the patients were young, severely symptomatic and demonstrated evidence of outflow obstruction and an "inverted" asymmetric pattern of posterior free wall left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Neuropsychiatric aspects of psychogenic status epilepticus. We studied 20 patients with continuous repetitive psychogenic seizures simulating status epilepticus. Most patients received intravenous doses of multiple anticonvulsants. Our definition used for status epilepticus was that of Delgado-Escueta et al, at least 30 minutes of repetitive seizures without regaining consciousness. Nineteen of 20 patients were young women, all but one under 40 years of age. Sixteen of these patients had a history of childhood seizures. In over 50% of patients, seizures continued until respiratory arrest and intubation occurred. Thorough neuropsychological testing and psychiatric interview were done after cessation of the acute episode. Long-term outcome and prognosis depended on definitive psychiatric diagnosis. Repetitive psychogenic seizures simulating status epilepticus are not uncommon, and such patients may incur serious iatrogenic complications from treatment for status epilepticus. Appropriate management and long-term prognosis may be determined by the type and severity of the underlying psychiatric disorder. 
Survival of patients with well-differentiated astrocytomas diagnosed in the era of computed tomography. We report 25 verified cases of well-differentiated cerebral astrocytomas in adults treated between 1978 and 1988. All patients were diagnosed by computed tomographic (CT) scans, with 5 undergoing a craniotomy for debulking and 20 undergoing a biopsy alone. The median survival for the entire group was 8.2 years, the longest survival yet reported for a series of patients with these tumors. A review of the literature suggests that the longer survival observed in more recent series is the result of the earlier diagnosis of tumors afforded by modern brain imaging. Twenty of our patients presented with seizures in the absence of any other focal findings and would probably not have had a biopsy in the era before CT scans until their tumors had progressed. Only 8% of our patients had papilledema at the time of presentation, in contrast to almost half of the patients with low-grade astrocytomas reported before 1975, supporting the hypothesis that patients in the CT era are diagnosed earlier. None of our patients died from progressive low-grade disease. One patient died from a squamous cell cancer, and 7 died as a consequence of their tumors dedifferentiating into a more malignant astrocytoma or glioblastoma multiforme, with a median time of approximately 5 years after the diagnosis. Our findings, together with the available data in the literature, suggest that death from a focal low-grade astrocytoma, in the absence of malignant degeneration, may be a rare event. Consequently, future therapeutic efforts should be targeted at preventing dedifferentiation. 
Expression of a cell adhesion protein (VLA beta) in normal and diseased skin. Biopsies from normal skin (n = 17) and various cutaneous disorders (n = 83) were examined immunohistologically for reactivity with an antibody (CD29) against the common beta chain of the VLA integrin family. In normal skin, CD29 recognized a number of cell types, i.e. endothelial cells, fibroblasts, T lymphocytes and basal keratinocytes. Similar cells were positive in diseased skin, but the expression of VLA beta was upregulated on keratinocytes. The phenotype of the VLA beta-positive T cells was examined in more detail by staining with anti-T-cell antibodies, i.e. CD3, CD4, CD8, CD45RO (UCHL1) and CD45R (2H4). These studies showed that most of the T cells in normal skin, benign cutaneous conditions and early cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) expressed a similar phenotype and resembled antigen committed 'memory' (helper/inducer) cells (CD4+, CD29+, CD45RO+, CD45R-). In advanced CTCL, expression of these antigens was more variable, and many of these infiltrates showed aberrant (or unusual) expression of CD29, CD45RO, CD45R and other T-cell antigens. It is concluded that several cells involved in cutaneous immune reactions express a molecule (VLA beta) which acts as a receptor for extracellular matrix components. This molecule is important for the attachment of cells to connective tissue constituents and may act to facilitate the migration of lymphocytes (and other cells) during immune reactions in normal and diseased cutaneous conditions. Advanced CTCL differ from the early lesions and it is possible that there is a progressive accumulation of increasingly malignant (or transformed) cells in these conditions. 
Lipid cyst: classic and atypical appearances. Lipid cysts, a specific type of fat necrosis, frequently have a pathognomonic appearance on radiographs. This consists of a lucent lesion surrounded by a smooth rim that may or not be calcified. Occasionally, lipid cysts with unusual mammographic appearances are encountered. An appreciation of some of these appearances may prevent unnecessary biopsies. 
Angioscopically directed valvulotomy: a new valvulotome and technique. Despite a large experience with "blind" retrograde valvulotomy in in situ vein bypass grafting, the incidence of residual competent valves remains high, and valvulotome-induced injury is common. In this study we describe a new valvulotome and technique of angioscopically directed valvulotomy and review the video tape recordings of 85 completion angioscopies of in situ femorodistal bypasses. Fifty-three vein grafts were prepared with the blind retrograde valvulotomy technique and 32 vein grafts with the new valvulotome and angioscopy. The use of the new valvulotome and technique is compared with that of the standard blind retrograde valvulotomy technique, and the normal endoluminal anatomy and incidence of primary disease in saphenous vein grafts was noted. The incidence of valvulotome-induced injury was 5/32 (15.6%) and 45/53 (85%) in vein grafts prepared with angioscopically directed valvulotomy and blind retrograde valvulotomy, respectively. Residual competent valves were found in 10/53 (18.9%) in blind retrograde valvulotomy and 0/25 of angioscopically directed valvulotomy vein grafts (p = 0.0114). In 22/53 vein grafts unsuspected primary disease was detected. Angioscopically directed valvulotomy with the new valvulotome and technique is feasible, reliable, and safe. It avoids residual competent valves, minimizes valvulotome-induced injury, and allows the detection and correction of unappreciated primary vein graft abnormalities. The new valvulotome and technique is a first step in the complete endoluminal preparation of the in situ vein graft. 
Large vessel vasculitis of the central nervous system in systemic lupus erythematosus: report and review of the literature. Large vessel vasculitis rarely involves the central nervous system in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. We describe an exemplary case, along with its dramatic cerebral angiogram, and review the literature on this unusual entity. 
Acute cor pulmonale secondary to metastatic tumor to the heart: a case report and literature review. Metastatic tumors to the heart are becoming more common due to improved survival afforded by advanced treatment of malignancies. Their presence should be sought in a cancer patient who develops new primary cardiac symptoms. We present a case of a 50-year-old woman who succumbed to acute cor pulmonale secondary to metastatic laryngeal carcinoma to the right ventricle with subsequent tumor emboli to the pulmonary vasculature. 
Predictors of first discharge and subsequent survival in patients with automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillators. BACKGROUND. Two hundred eighteen patients were evaluated in a two-phase approach (time to first appropriate discharge, survival after discharge) to identify factors that may be related to maximal benefit derived from use of an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD). METHODS AND RESULTS. One hundred ninety-seven patients survived implantation of AICD, with or without concomitant cardiac surgery. One hundred five patients had an AICD discharge associated with syncope, presyncope, documented sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, or sleep at 9.1 +/- 11.1 months after implantation. Patients survived 23.8 +/- 18.0 months after AICD discharge. Left ventricular dysfunction (p = 0.008 for ejection fraction less than 25%) was associated with earlier AICD discharge and shortened survival after AICD discharge (p = 0.008 for ejection fraction less than 25%; p = 0.01 for New York Heart Association functional class III and IV). beta-Blocker administration (p = 0.006) and coronary bypass surgery (p = 0.06) were associated with later AICD discharge. Coronary bypass surgery (p = 0.035) but not beta-blockers was associated with more prolonged survival after AICD discharge. CONCLUSIONS. These data suggest that a relatively easy algorithm can be applied to predict which patient will benefit most from AICD implantation. 
Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with myocardial dysfunction and acute leukemia. The role of amsacrine in inducing remission in patients with cardiac disease and acute leukemia was evaluated. There were 17 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), six with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and one with biphenotypic leukemia. In this series of 24 patients whose disease had relapsed and who had reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, nine had a complete remission, seven with AML and two with ALL. In addition, four of six with newly diagnosed acute leukemia and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction also responded. Among nine patients who underwent endomyocardial biopsy, none had morphologic changes of sufficient degree to account for drug-induced heart failure. Patients with preexisting arrhythmias received amsacrine without incident if their serum potassium level was higher than 4.0 mEq/l at the time of drug administration. Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with acute leukemia and cardiac disease. 
New technique for pacemaker implantation in the upper chest of children and women. A new lateral approach for implanting pacemaker generators in the chest of women and children is described. Using this technique, 83 women and 21 children were operated on with no early or late complications and with good cosmetic results up to 9 years after operation. This technique prevents formation of visible wide scars above the breast in women and prevents thinning or disruption of the chest incision in children. Ages of the women ranged from 19 to 56 years; children, 5 to 18 years. In 23 patients, this technique was used after wound complications had occurred 7 days to 3 years after use of the standard implantation technique. 
Diagnostic accuracy of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging. Myocardial thallium-201 (Tl-201) imaging performed in conjunction with exercise stress has enhanced the accuracy of detecting coronary artery disease among patients with chest pain. Sensitivity and specificity of qualitative visual Tl-201 scintigraphy for detection of coronary artery disease average 84% and 87%, respectively. Quantitative analysis of planar Tl-201 scintigrams has yielded sensitivity and specificity in the 90% range. Single photon emission computed tomographic imaging is associated with even higher sensitivity but with specificity in the 82-85% range. Perfusion defects representing ischemia can now be distinguished from scar by demonstration of delayed Tl-201 redistribution or enhanced uptake after reinjection of a second dose of Tl-201. Stenoses of the left circumflex coronary artery are less easily detected than lesions of the right and left anterior descending coronary arteries. False-positive Tl-201 perfusion defects may occur as a result of attenuation artifacts, most often caused by overlying breast tissue or by a high left hemidiaphragm. Patient motion during acquisition of single photon emission computed tomographic images results in artifactual defects on reconstruction. Abnormal Tl-201 uptake has been noted in patients with 1) left bundle branch block and normal coronary arteries, 2) hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and 3) progressive systemic sclerosis. 
Flow-mediated dilatation of the basilar artery in vivo. Flow-mediated dilatation has been described mainly in peripheral conduit arteries. The goal of this study was to examine mechanisms and functional implications of flow-mediated dilatation in large cerebral arteries in vivo. Vessel diameter and velocity of blood flow through the basilar artery were measured using a cranial window in 45 anesthetized rats. Mean blood flow velocity through the basilar artery increased by 94 +/- 8% during unilateral common carotid artery occlusion and 203 +/- 13% during bilateral occlusion. Diameter of the basilar artery increased by 10 +/- 1% during unilateral common carotid artery occlusion and 29 +/- 2% during bilateral occlusion from control diameter of 275 +/- 8 microns. Vasodilatation appeared with a delay of 13 +/- 1 seconds after the onset of the increase in flow velocity. With systemic arterial pressure maintained at baseline levels, pressure in the basilar artery (servonull) decreased initially during carotid occlusion, and during dilatation of the basilar artery, pressure was restored partially toward normal. Indomethacin (10 mg/kg i.v.), topical application of tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M), NG-monomethyl L-arginine (5 x 10(-6) M), tetraethylammonium chloride (10(-2) M), glibenclamide (10(-5) M), SKF 525A (3 x 10(-5) M), and ouabain (10(-5) M) had no effect on flow-mediated dilatation. 
Minor contribution of hepatocytes to collagen production in normal and early fibrotic rat livers. Hepatocyte contribution to hepatic collagen production in vivo was estimated in rats, based on the fact that ornithine is used for protein synthesis in the liver as arginine after conversion by way of the urea cycle only by hepatocytes. From rats given a mixture of [14C] ornithine and [3H]arginine, hepatic collagen and serum albumin were obtained. The hepatocyte contribution was calculated from the 14C and 3H in arginine purified from collagen and albumin by high performance liquid chromatography. The contribution was less than 10% of total collagen production in normal and early fibrotic livers induced by a single dose of carbon tetrachloride or dimethylnitrosamine. We conclude that hepatocytes may play a minor role in collagen production in normal and early fibrotic rat livers. 
Childhood blindness in the Republic of Ireland: a national survey. We completed a national study of blindness in children under 16. Approximately 80% of the blind children (that is, with vision of 3/60 or less) in the Republic of Ireland (172 children) were seen, 93 males and 79 females. The survey was carried out between July 1989 and June 1990. It is the first such study to be carried out. Ninety seven (56%) children had lesions due to factors acting before the perinatal period. Of these, 28 (16% of the total number surveyed) had lesions due to genetic causes; 69 (40%) had lesions due to factors operating in the prenatal period other than genetic factors. Forty six (27%) had lesions due to factors acting in the perinatal period. Twenty two (13%) had lesions due to factors acting in childhood. (4% could not be categorised in this way). The commonest single primary diagnoses were birth asphyxia in 19 (11%) cases and retinopathy of prematurity in 19 (11%) cases. 
The TPR-MET oncogenic rearrangement is present and expressed in human gastric carcinoma and precursor lesions. The TPR-MET oncogenic rearrangement was originally observed in an in vitro transformed human osteosarcoma cell line. Recently, we detected the expression of this rearrangement at very low levels in several cell lines derived from human tumors of nonhematopoietic origin using a highly sensitive method based on polymerase chain reaction amplification of the transcript. We report here the results of analysis of TPR-MET expression in cell lines derived from human gastric tumors and 22 biopsy samples of human gastric mucosa showing cancer or precursor lesions. The rearranged RNA was expressed in all four cell lines as well as in biopsy samples from 12 of the 22 patients. Overexpression of TPR-MET RNA in superficial gastritis lesions with hyperplasia of glandular neck cells suggests the possible involvement of this oncogene at an early stage of gastric tumorigenesis. Analysis of gastric biopsy samples for RAS gene mutations showed base substitutions occurring in the codon 12 region of Ki- and Ha-RAS genes in four cases, including two precursor lesions. 
Deep vein thrombosis: effect of graduated compression stockings on distension of the deep veins of the calf. The mechanisms by which graduated compression stockings prevent deep vein thrombosis are not completely understood. Recent work has suggested that venous distension plays a role in initiating the process. Our previous work has shown that the deep veins of the lower limb distend in patients undergoing surgical procedures. We have investigated 40 patients receiving surgical treatment on the abdomen or neck. A medial gastrocnemius vein was studied using ultrasound imaging during the operations. In half the patients a graduated compression anti-embolism stocking was applied to the limb under study at the start of the operation, immediately after initial measurements of vein diameter. The median vein diameter in both groups was the same at the start of the operative procedures (control, 2.6 mm, interquartile range 2.1-3.3 mm; stocking, 2.6 mm, interquartile range 2.1-3.7 mm). After application of a stocking the median diameter in this group fell to 1.6 mm (interquartile range 1.3-2.8 mm) and then decreased slightly at the end of the operation. In the control group the vein diameter increased to 2.9 mm (interquartile range 2.3-4.0 mm) during the operative procedure. 
Identification and mapping to chromosome 1 of a susceptibility locus for periinsulitis in non-obese diabetic mice. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is a polygenic disease caused by autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the islets of Langerhans. Its onset is preceded by a long and variable period in which lymphoid cells infiltrate the pancreas but first remain outside the islets (peri-insulitis) before invading them (insulitis). Among susceptibility loci, only the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) has been clearly assigned. Genetic study of the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse model for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has revealed genetic linkage of insulitis and of early onset diabetes with two non-MHC loci mapping to chromosome 3 and 11 respectively. Here we report a close association of periinsulitis with a third non-MHC locus mapping to chromosome 1. Successive stages in the progression of diabetic disease thus appear to be controlled by distinct genes or sets of genes. 
Failure of treatment with teicoplanin at 6 milligrams/kilogram/day in patients with Staphylococcus aureus intravascular infection. The Infectious Diseases Consortium of Oregon. Patients with blood cultures positive for gram-positive cocci were enrolled in a prospective randomized double-blind comparative trial of vancomycin at 15 mg/kg every 12 h versus teicoplanin at 6 mg/kg every 12 h for three doses and then 6 mg/kg every 24 h. A total of 54 patients were randomized, and 40 were evaluable. Of the 40, 9 had infection of indwelling vascular catheters. Four infections were due to Staphylococcus aureus, and five were due to Staphylococcus epidermidis. In concert with catheter removal, all patients were treated successfully, regardless of which drug they were taking. Of 31 patients without an indwelling catheter, 19 were infected with S. aureus, and 12 of the 19 had either endocarditis or mycotic aneurysm. Six of eight patients given teicoplanin failed treatment, as opposed to one of four patients given vancomycin (P = 0.14). Of greater concern, four of four patients with left-sided endocarditis or mycotic aneurysm failed to recover when given teicoplanin, as opposed to one of three patients given vancomycin (P = 0.07). Although not quite statistically significant, the unexpectedly high number of treatment failures with teicoplanin resulted in a decision to discontinue patient enrollment. It is suggested that future trials explore the efficacy of larger doses of teicoplanin. 
Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study. Final results BACKGROUND. Atrial fibrillation in the absence of rheumatic valvular disease is associated with a fivefold to sevenfold increased risk of ischemic stroke. METHODS AND MAIN RESULTS. The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study, a multicenter, randomized trial, compared 325 mg/day aspirin (double-blind) or warfarin with placebo for prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism (primary events), and included 1,330 inpatients and outpatients with constant or intermittent atrial fibrillation. During a mean follow-up of 1.3 years, the rate of primary events in patients assigned to placebo was 6.3% per year and was reduced by 42% in those assigned to aspirin (3.6% per year; p = 0.02; 95% confidence interval, 9-63%). In the subgroup of warfarin-eligible patients (most less than 76 years old), warfarin dose-adjusted to prolong prothrombin time to 1.3-fold to 1.8-fold that of control reduced the risk of primary events by 67% (warfarin versus placebo, 2.3% versus 7.4% per year; p = 0.01; 95% confidence interval, 27-85%). Primary events or death were reduced 58% (p = 0.01) by warfarin and 32% (p = 0.02) by aspirin. The risk of significant bleeding was 1.5%, 1.4%, and 1.6% per year in patients assigned to warfarin, aspirin, and placebo, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. Aspirin and warfarin are both effective in reducing ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation. Because warfarin-eligible patients composed a subset of all aspirin-eligible patients, the magnitude of reduction in events by warfarin versus aspirin cannot be compared. Too few events occurred in warfarin-eligible patients to directly assess the relative benefit of aspirin compared with warfarin, and the trial is continuing to address this issue. Patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation who can safely take either aspirin or warfarin should receive prophylactic antithrombotic therapy to reduce the risk of stroke. 
Ploidy in invasive colorectal cancer. Implications for metastatic disease. A retrospective study was performed to determine the ploidy of superficial (above muscularis propria) and deep (below muscularis propria) biopsy specimens from the primary colorectal cancer of 88 patients with Dukes Stage C2 and D colorectal tumors. The ploidy of lymph node and liver metastases was compared with that of the superficial and deep specimen from the corresponding primary tumor. Among the tumors studied, 78% exhibited nondiploid stemlines. In 19% of the tumors, the ploidy of the superficial biopsy differed from that of the deep biopsy. Among these discordant tumors, all of the deep biopsy specimens corresponded in ploidy to the liver metastases, whereas most of the superficial specimens were similar in ploidy to the lymph node metastases. Our observations suggest that measurement of a single site may not be sufficient to detect nondiploid stemlines within a tumor. They also suggest that measurement of deeper parts of invasive tumors may be more reflective of the phenotype of distant metastases than measurement of superficial specimens. 
Holmium laser angioplasty after failed coronary balloon dilation: use of a new solid-state, infrared laser system. A new solid-state laser system was used in a case of saphenous vein graft occlusion untreatable by standard very low-profile balloon angioplasty. The 2100 nm infrared pulsed thulium/holmium: YAG laser successfully recanalized an obtuse marginal bypass graft without complications. The holmium laser has several advantages over excimer systems and may prove an effective adjunct or alternative to coronary balloon angioplasty. 
Ultrasound diagnosis of an obstructive cardiac rhabdomyoma with severe hydrops and hypoplastic lungs. A case report. Cardiac rhabdomyomas of the fetus and neonate are benign cardiac muscle hamartomas with an incidence of 0.027% in pediatric autopsies. This is the third reported case of prenatally diagnosed cardiac rhabdomyoma, the second with severe hydrops and the only one associated with aortic valve hypoplasia and hypoplastic lungs. 
Bone marrow: ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide for MR imaging. An ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (USPIO) preparation was evaluated as a potential intravenous contrast agent for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of bone marrow. One hour after administration of USPIO (40, 80, and 160 mumols of iron per kilogram body weight) in rats and rabbits, T1 and T2 relaxation times were, respectively, approximately 30%, 50%, and 65% lower than precontrast relaxation times. Maximum decrease in relaxation times of marrow occurred within 1-24 hours after intravenous administration; thereafter, relaxation times slowly returned to normal within 7 days. In vivo MR imaging of rabbits and rats confirmed that USPIO decreases signal intensity of red and yellow marrow. The decrease was most marked with gradient echo pulse sequences. An animal model of intramedullary tumor demonstrated the potential of USPIO to enable differentiation between tumor and normal red marrow. USPIO-enhanced MR imaging improves detection of smaller tumors and allows differentiation of tumor deposits from islands of hyperplastic or normal red marrow. 
Schwannomas of the paranasal sinuses. Case report and clinicopathologic analysis. Schwann's cell tumors are common neoplasms arising from the neural sheath of autonomic, cranial, or peripheral nerves. We describe a case of destructive malignant schwannoma of the right ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses. The tumor was successfully treated by surgical excision, external radiotherapy, and radon seed implants. The patient remains symptom free 3 years after therapy ended, emphasizing the previously unrecognized benefits of radiotherapy for these types of tumors. The value of endoscopy in diagnosing and following schwannomas of the nasal and paranasal sinuses is highlighted in our review of the clinicopathologic features and radiologic findings of this tumor. 
Differential regulation of thyroid hormone receptor messenger ribonucleic acid levels by thyrotropin-releasing hormone. In addition to its well known actions in stimulating TSH and PRL synthesis and secretion, TRH has been shown to decrease the concentration of thyroid hormone receptors (TRs) in GH4C1 cells as measured by nuclear thyroid hormone (T3) binding. In the present study we have investigated the effects of TRH on the levels of mRNA encoding the different forms of TR, TR beta-1, TR beta-2, and TR alpha-1 as well as that of the non-T3-binding variant, c-erbA alpha-2. GH3 cells were incubated with 100 nM TRH in the presence or absence of 1 nM T3 for 48 h, and mRNA levels were determined by Northern blot analysis. Results revealed that there is differential regulation of the individual TRs by TRH at the pretranslational level. The mRNA for the pituitary-specific form of TR, TR beta-2, was down-regulated by 60% by TRH in GH3 cells, while that of its alternative splice product, TR beta-1, was unchanged. A modest change was observed in TR alpha-1 mRNA levels, which were down-regulated by 20%; there was no change in c-erbA alpha-2 mRNA levels. Levels of nuclear T3 binding were assessed under the same conditions, and 100 nM TRH was found to decrease binding by 40% from 0.78 to 0.46 fmol/micrograms DNA. A similar change in nuclear T3 binding was seen after incubation with 1 nM T3. The effect of TRH on the GH mRNA response to T3 was investigated. In the absence of TRH there was a 4-fold induction of GH mRNA after incubation with 1 nM T3. In the presence of 100 nM TRH, no significant induction in GH mRNA by T3 was seen, indicating that T3 responsiveness as well as receptor concentration are diminished by TRH under these conditions. 
Current role of catheter ablative procedures in patients with cardiac arrhythmias. A report for health professionals from the Subcommittee on Electrocardiography and Electrophysiology, American Heart Association. Catheter ablative techniques have assumed an increasingly important role in the treatment of patients with drug-refractory cardiac arrhythmias. Catheter ablation of the AV junction is considered the procedure of choice for management of patients without bypass tracts with drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias. Catheter techniques have been used with increasing frequency in attempts to ablate accessory AV tracts. These techniques currently appear to be less effective than surgical techniques but involve less morbidity and expense. In some centers, accessory pathway ablation using catheter techniques is the procedure of first choice in selected patients with drug-refractory tachycardia mediated by an accessory pathway. Catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia should be reserved for patients with mappable ventricular tachycardia who are not candidates for cardiac electrosurgery or insertion of an automatic defibrillator. The development of more flexible catheters and more manageable energy delivery systems holds promise for more effective catheter techniques. 
Assessment of severity of coronary narrowings by quantitative exercise echocardiography and comparison with quantitative arteriography. To determine the correlation of quantitative assessment of coronary narrowings with left ventricular functional impairment induced by exercise, 57 patients with 1-vessel coronary artery disease and without evidence of collateral flow were studied. A significant relation was observed between minimal cross-sectional area, percent area stenosis, minimal lumen diameter, percent diameter stenosis and the percentage of segmental area change from rest to peak exercise in a vascular distribution territory (r = 0.76, p less than 0.001; r = -0.55, p less than 0.001; r = 0.56, p less than 0.001; r = -0.75, p less than 0.001, respectively). For minimal cross-sectional area, the best cut-off value to separate significantly patients who had a decrease in contractility at peak exercise testing from those who had a normal response was 2 mm2 (p less than 0.001); for percent cross-sectional area stenosis, it was 75% (p less than 0.001); for minimal lumen diameter, it was 0.7 mm (p less than 0.001); and, for percent diameter stenosis, it was 85% (p less than 0.001). High cut-off values for angiographic variables are necessary to separate significantly patients who have a decrease in contractility at peak exercise testing from those who have a normal response. Several patients with mild coronary stenoses may have either normal or abnormal wall motion during exercise. Thus, exercise echocardiography is a useful tool in detecting the presence of fairly severe anatomic narrowing, whereas it is of limited clinical use in the assessment of intermediate coronary atherosclerotic lesions. 
Non-invasive assessment of pulmonary arterial pressure in healthy neonates. Doppler echocardiograms were carried out on 51 healthy babies three times during the first 72 hours of life to estimate pulmonary arterial systolic pressure by measuring regurgitant tricuspid jet velocity and applying the Bernoulli equation. Tricuspid regurgitation was detected at some stage in all preterm babies and most of those born at full term. Pulmonary arterial pressure could be measured from peak regurgitant velocity in babies with pansystolic regurgitation. The incidence of pansystolic regurgitation among 34 term babies at 0-12, 13-36, and 32-72 hours of age was 22, 27, and 19%, and in 17 preterm babies (within the same age groups) was 53, 50, and 31%, respectively. Estimates of pulmonary artery pressure in the term babies were in accord with known catheter values. Pressure fell rapidly during the first day in all 51 babies. The ratio of pulmonary:systemic arterial pressure was comparable between the two groups throughout. Ductal flow patterns mirrored the fall in this ratio with age--bidirectional flow was associated with a ratio of between 0.88:1 and 1.22:1 and high velocity left to right flow with a ratio of between 0.49:1 and 0.66:1. Both these techniques are noninvasive ways of assessing neonatal pulmonary arterial pressure. 
Peritoneal seeding following potentially curative resection of colonic carcinoma: implications for adjuvant therapy. Adjuvant therapeutic strategies for colon cancer are based on the knowledge of tumor recurrence patterns following potentially curative resection. Innovative methods for regional delivery of chemotherapy to the liver and peritoneal surfaces are now available to complement systemic treatment. We reviewed clinical, reoperation, and autopsy series to determine the incidence of peritoneal seeding following colon cancer resection. The data suggest a 25-35 percent peritoneal failure rate among patients that recur, indicating that intraperitoneal chemotherapy is a sensible adjuvant approach. The theory behind intraperitoneal chemotherapy and potential complications is discussed. We suggest initiation of clinical trials combining systemic and intraperitoneal chemotherapy. 
Beat-to-beat electrocardiographic morphology variation in healed myocardial infarction. Using high-fidelity electrocardiographic (ECG) amplifiers, we measured subtle beat-to-beat ECG morphologic variations at different phases of the ECG complex. The electrocardiograms were recorded from 49 men with a documented Q-wave myocardial infarction and from 30 age-matched normal men. Forty consecutive beats were averaged to achieve an average ECG signal from which variance could be calculated. The relative variance, defined as the ratio between the integrated variance of the examined window and the integrated variance of the ECG signal that was close to full cycle length, was calculated at QRS onset and at offset in 2 frequency bands (4 to 40 and 60 to 120 Hz). Patients with healed infarction had a relative variance of 2.1 +/- 0.5 (mean +/- standard deviation [SD]) at QRS offset (a window of 40 ms), which was significantly lower than that of the healthy volunteers: 2.5 +/- 0.33 (mean +/- SD; p less than 0.02) at the low-frequency band. At the high-frequency band, patients with healed infarction had a significantly higher relative variance than the control subjects at QRS onset: 1.95 +/- 0.58 vs 1.55 +/- 0.35 (mean +/- SD; p less than 0.005). A model based on the numerous minor conduction abnormalities that exist in the chronically ischemic myocardium is presented to explain the changes in variance at the onset and offset of the QRS. The variance changes described can eventually serve as quantitative indexes of myocardial injury and electrical stability in patients with ischemic heart disease. 
Patient acceptance of Nordiject: a new drug delivery system for growth hormone. Twenty-seven children, aged 5-20 years, with growth retardation were enrolled in an open study to evaluate the acceptability of a new injection pen (Nordiject 24, Novo Nordisk A/S) for administration of recombinant human growth hormone (r-hGH). Prior to this study, 17 of the patients had been receiving treatment with r-hGH administered via syringes and vials; their experiences with this conventional technique have been used for comparison with Nordiject. The injection pen is provided with a replaceable 27-gauge needle and a cartridge containing 24 IU of reconstituted r-hGH (12 IU/mL). A benzyl alcohol 0.9% solution is used as the solvent for the reconstitution. The pen can be regulated for doses from 0.5 to 8 IU per injection; regulation is accomplished by a turning movement. The patients had no problems with the dissolving procedure or handling the pen. Nearly two-thirds of the patients experienced less injection pain with the pen as compared with the syringe. Special attention was paid to local tolerability, which was reported to be good. The thigh was the preferred injection site. The residual contents from 68 cartridges returned by the patients were analyzed for microbial contamination. Contamination was detected in only one cartridge, which could not be confirmed in a repeated test. Because of the simplification of the injection procedure afforded by the injection pen, 20 of 27 patients were able to perform the injections themselves and hence assume a more active role in their treatment. The patients who previously had been using conventional syringes strongly preferred the pen, and all patients wished to continue using the device. 
Recurrent buccal space abscesses: a complication of Crohn's disease. A patient is described with generalized gastrointestinal involvement by Crohn's disease. Symptoms of recurrent ulceration and mucosal tags are well-described oral manifestations of Crohn's disease; however, in our patient recurrent facial abscesses, which required extraoral drainage, also developed. This complication has not previously been reported. 
Aspiration cytology of breast. Most primary malignant epithelial neoplasms and many benign lesions of the breast possess such characteristic cytologic features that they can be diagnosed with certainty by needle aspiration. Because inadequate sampling may result in a false-negative cytology diagnosis, the time-tested rule is that a negative cytologic diagnosis is not definitive unless it is fully supported by negative clinical and mammographic findings. 
Obstructive sleep apnea during pregnancy. Therapy and implications for fetal health. A 32 yr-old woman in her last trimester of pregnancy was found to have severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The overnight polysomnogram demonstrated an apnea plus hypopnea index of 159 events per hour. Apneas were associated with severe oxygen desaturation to 40% during rapid eye movement sleep, maternal bradycardia, and second degree heart block. External cardiotocography showed normal fetal heart rate reactivity to fetal movements, even during the apneas and episodes of oxygen desaturation. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure at a level of 15 cm H2O effectively treated the apneas and desaturation and had no effect on the fetal heart rate. The patient was induced electively during the 39th wk of pregnancy and gave birth to a newborn with growth retardation. Early recognition and treatment of OSA in pregnancy might prevent problems with fetal development. 
Short-term effect of albuterol, delivered via a new auxiliary device, in wheezy infants. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, the response of lung function to albuterol, topically administered by a metered-dose inhaler (MD) through a baby-adapted auxiliary device, was evaluated in 36 wheezy infants (1.6 to 25.2 months of age; median 8.1 months). The auxiliary device contains an air chamber of 350 ml and two low-resistant valves separating the inspiratory from the expiratory line. After baseline lung function measurements by infant whole-body plethysmography, the patients were randomly assigned to inhale either three times two puffs albuterol (100 micrograms/puff) or three times two puffs placebo at 5-min intervals. Changes in the degree of pulmonary hyperinflation, estimated by thoracic gas volume (TGV) and/or in the degree of bronchial obstruction, estimated by thoracic gas volume (TGV) and/or in the degree of bronchial obstruction, estimated by airway conductance (Gaw), were measured at 5-min intervals for up to 30 min. TGV and Gaw were expressed as standard deviation scores (SDS) of values predicted, and patients improving TGV and/or Gaw more than 2 SD were considered responders. In comparison with placebo, a significant percentage improvement in TGV (by the mean 26 to 53%) and a significant percentage improvement in Gaw (by the mean 34 to 51%) could be found in the active treatment groups. The study documents the usefulness of a new auxiliary device for the administration of aerosolized bronchodilators to wheezy infants. 
Household pets and human infections. Because many Americans keep a wide variety of household pets, they are exposed to the many pet-associated diseases that are transmitted in various ways, including through bites, scratches, saliva, excreta, and respiration. This article briefly describes a number of the illnesses that may be acquired from household pets. 
Scalp tumours mimicking encephaloceles. Two neonates presented with benign scalp tumours that mimicked encephaloceles. In the more recent case ultrasonography confirmed that the tumour was extracranial. 
Dementia presenting with aphasia: clinical characteristics. Dementia, a disorder of multiple cognitive functions, may atypically present as an aphasia. The clinical characteristics are reported of 13 patients with up to 14 years of progressive language impairment before developing dementia. In reviewing the literature, it was found that these patients were similar to those reported with progressive aphasia. It is concluded that dementia may present with an anomic, dysfluent language disorder due to the focal left sylvian onset of several dementing illnesses. 
Functional assessment of neurologic impairment: track analysis in diabetic and compression neuropathies. A laboratory approach to measuring neurologic impairment has been developed that is applicable to systemic disease as well as localized nerve injury. This approach compares individual parameters of the experimental rat hind footprint (walking track) with weight- and sex-matched control track parameters; classic mathematical indexing is not utilized. The normal track data obtained for the Sprague-Dawley rat showed a significant increase in print length (PL), toe spread (TS), and intermediate toe spread (ITS) with increasing rat weight. A significant difference between male and female rats above 400 gm also was noted. For a localized injury (sciatic nerve cut), this approach demonstrated that the contralateral hind footprint was a "compensated" rather than a normal track. This approach to track analysis also was capable of demonstrating progressive neurologic impairment for a sciatic nerve compression model and a systemic disease such as diabetes, as well as demonstrating reversal of these abnormal patterns when the "disease state" was treated. 
Human immunodeficiency virus exanthem. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) exanthem can be the primary manifestation of HIV infection. We report three cases of an exanthematous skin eruption associated with acute HIV infection. HIV antigen (p24 core antigen) was present, whereas results of the HIV antibody test were negative. 
Retinoic acid-induced growth inhibition of a human myeloma cell line via down-regulation of IL-6 receptors. In this report we demonstrate that retinoic acid (RA) down-regulated the number of IL-6R on human leukocyte cell lines, including the myeloma cell line AF10, and two B cell hybridomas that correspond to cells at earlier stages of B cell development. Using AF10 cells, whose growth was determined to be mediated by the autocrine action of IL-6, we found that RA reduction of IL-6R was concentration-dependent over a range of 10(-11) to 10(-5) M and corresponded to the ability of the retinoid to inhibit cell proliferation. The down-regulation of IL-6R number by RA was accompanied by reduced IL-6R mRNA expression. RA did not affect endogeneous IL-6 synthesis or secretion from AF10 cells. However, addition of exogenous rIL-6 could overcome RA-induced growth inhibition. Menthol, a structurally unrelated compound to RA, also suppressed IL-6R expression and, correspondingly, inhibited cell growth. Taken together, our results suggest that the antiproliferative action of RA on AF10 cells is caused by reduction of IL-6R expression and subsequent inhibition of IL-6-mediated autocrine growth. These findings suggest the possibility that down-regulation of IL-6R is a means by which RA can modulate immune function. 
Requirement of heparin for arterial and venous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. The effect of concomitant intravenous (IV) heparin (200 U/kg bolus, followed by 100 U/kg/h) on the efficacy of arterial and venous thrombolysis with IV recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA; 0.5 mg/kg over 1 hour) was investigated in a combined femoral arterial and venous thrombosis model in the dog. The arterial model consisted of a high-grade stenosis, endothelial damage, and a thrombotic occlusion, and the venous model consisted of a 125I-fibrin-labeled blood clot. After a dose-finding pilot study in four dogs, a randomized, prospective, and blind study was performed in 20 animals pretreated with 2.8 mg/kg IV acetyl salicylic acid (ASA). The combination of rt-PA and heparin (group I, n = 10) induced early (less than 30 minutes) arterial reperfusion in seven dogs, late (greater than 30 minutes) reflow in two dogs, and persistent occlusion in one dog. rt-PA alone (group II, n = 10) was associated with early reperfusion in one dog, late reflow in three dogs, and persistent occlusion in six dogs (P = .018). Reocclusion occurred in five of nine reperfused dogs of group I and in one of four reperfused dogs of group II (P = not significant). Venous clot lysis amounted to 81% +/- 4% (mean +/- SEM) for group I and to 49% +/- 7% for group II (P less than .001). Template bleeding times increased moderately, but significantly, in group I (from 2.2 +/- 0.2 minutes at baseline to 7.0 +/- 1.4 minutes at 30 minutes, P = .006), but only marginally in group II (from 2.2 +/- 0.2 minutes to 3.6 +/- 0.7 minutes, P = .09). No systemic fibrinogen depletion was observed. Thus, the concommitant use of heparin with rt-PA accelerates arterial reperfusion and enhances venous thrombolysis in dogs pretreated with ASA. These results, obtained in a randomized prospective study design, add to a growing body of experimental and clinical evidence, indicating that thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA requires concomitant adjunctive IV heparin for optimal efficacy, even in the face of treatment with ASA. 
Correlates of Beck Depression Inventory scores in an ambulatory elderly population: symptoms, diseases, laboratory values, and medications. BACKGROUND. Depression is one of the most important psychiatric disorders of older people. Between 1% and 5% of elderly persons who live in the community have major depression. Depressed elderly people are thought to be more likely to complain of symptoms such as headache, constipation, and pain than of disordered mood. The purpose of this study was to determine whether certain symptoms, diseases, or drugs used by older people correlate with scores on the Beck Depression Inventory. METHODS. Beck Depression Inventory scores were obtained in an ambulatory elderly population to identify correlates with self-reported signs, symptoms, diseases, drugs, and laboratory values. A total of 1048 participants were studied, including 712 women and 336 men. RESULTS. In this study, 13.7% of the men and 20.7% of the women had scores suggesting possible depression. A linear regression model revealed eight factors of significance in predicting scores on the Beck Depression Inventory. The most important predictors were the total number of symptoms reported by the patient (P less than .0001), and subjective complaints of memory loss (P less than .0003) and of pain in the abdomen (P less than .0004). CONCLUSIONS. Clinically, the results of this study suggest that depression is underdiagnosed in older patients and that multiple somatic symptoms are the best indicator of depression in this population. 
Differential effects of atrial natriuretic peptide and dopamine on urinary protein excretion in chronic glomerulonephritis. 1. To examine whether or not atrial natriuretic peptide-induced proteinuria simply results from increases in urine flow or glomerular filtration rate, we infused dopamine (1 microgram min-1 kg-1) and alpha-human atrial natriuretic peptide (0.025 microgram min-1 kg-1) into nine patients with chronic glomerulonephritis and nine essential hypertensive patients without renal damage, and compared the effects of the two agents on renal function and urinary protein excretion. 2. In patients with chronic glomerulonephritis, dopamine infusion significantly increased urinary sodium excretion (+59%), renal blood flow (+20%) and creatinine clearance (+14%). However, urinary protein excretion was not changed. Addition of atrial natriuretic peptide to the dopamine infusion further increased urinary sodium excretion and maintained creatinine clearance at the same level. In contrast to the infusion of dopamine alone, atrial natriuretic peptide markedly increased urinary protein excretion (77 versus 229 mg min-1 m2, P less than 0.02). Furthermore, the addition of atrial natriuretic peptide elevated the urinary protein/creatinine ratio (1.55 versus 5.35, P less than 0.05), while dopamine alone did not (1.55 versus 1.45, not significant). 3. In essential hypertensive patients, dopamine and dopamine plus ANP showed renal effects similar to those of chronic glomerulonephritis; however, the urinary excretion of protein was not changed significantly. 4. These results suggest that atrial natriuretic peptide may increase urinary protein excretion mainly by increasing the permeability of the damaged glomeruli to protein rather than by simply increasing urine flow or glomerular filtration. Possible mechanisms underlying the proteinuria-increasing effects of atrial natriuretic peptide are discussed. 
Effect of saline infusion on urinary calcium excretion in essential hypertension. Urinary excretion of sodium and calcium was examined in hypertensive (n = 8) and normotensive (n = 7) subjects following infusion of 2% saline at a rate of 11 mL/min for 90 min. The urinary sodium excretion was 204 +/- 38 (mean +/- SEM) muEq/min in normotensives and 233 +/- 28 muEq/min in hypertensives before infusion of saline and increased maximally to 499 +/- 114 muEq/min (P less than .05) and to 928 +/- 68 muEq/min (P less than .01), respectively, after saline infusion. In normotensives, urinary calcium excretion did not change significantly; however, in hypertensives excretion increased markedly (P less than .01) from 6.1 +/- 0.7 muEq/min to 12.3 +/- 1.6 muEq/min. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels increased significantly (P less than .05) in both groups. Serum ionized calcium and plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels did not change significantly. The increments of urinary sodium and calcium and of plasma ANP, as well as the preinfusion plasma PTH level, were significantly (P less than .05) higher in hypertensives than in normotensives. The present study showed that exaggerated natriuresis was accompanied by hypercalcinuria and an enhanced rise in plasma ANP in hypertensives. Basal levels of plasma PTH were elevated in hypertensives. The calcium deficiency may be attributable to a close relationship between urinary sodium and calcium, and causally related to the disturbance of sodium and volume homeostasis in hypertension, which results in exaggerated natriuresis. 
In-office mental status testing: a practical guide. Elderly patients with dementia often first come to the attention of their primary medical care providers. Evaluation of cognitive functioning is an important part of the diagnostic work-up, since dementia is a disorder defined by problems of mental or cognitive abilities. Mental status examination in the physician's office can provide diagnostically valuable information and prove useful for determining the need for referral for formal neuropsychological testing. This article briefly describes the cognitive changes associated with dementia and explains proper administration and interpretation of the Mini-Mental State Examination, a quantitative screening test of cognitive function. 
Sodium channel density in hypomyelinated brain increased by myelin basic protein gene deletion. Trophic control over the expression and membrane distribution of voltage-dependent ion channels is one of the principal organizing events underlying the maturation of excitable cells. The myelin sheath is a major structural determinant of regional ion channel topography in central axons, but the exact molecular signals that mediate local interactions between the oligodendrocyte and axolemma are not known. We have found that large caliber fibre pathways in the brain of the mutant mouse shiverer (shi, gene on chromosome 18), whose developmental fate of myelination is averted by deletion of five exons in the myelin basic protein gene, have a striking excess of sodium channels. As cytoplasmic membranes of shiverer oligodendroglia still adhere to axons, the evidence indicates that myelin basic protein or a myelin basic protein-dependent glial transmembrane signal associated with compact myelin formation, rather than a simple glial-axon contact inhibition or an intrinsic genetic program of neuronal differentiation, could be critical in downregulating sodium channel density in axons. Here we use the shiverer mutant to show that mature central nervous system projection neurons with large caliber unmyelinated fibres sustain functional excitability by increasing sodium channel density. This axon plasticity, triggered by the absence of a single glial protein, contributes to the unexpectedly mild degree of neurological impairment in the mutant brain without myelin, and may be a potentially inducible mechanism determining the recovery of function from dysmyelinating disease. 
Pain and measles, mumps, and rubella vaccination. Seventy-seven children (mean age 44.2 months) were entered in a randomised double blind study to find out if two commonly used measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccines (Pluserix and MMR II) caused pain on injection. Pain was judged by the amount of crying. Infants given MMR II were 2.31 times more likely to cry than those given Pluserix. 
Early experience with low speed rotational angioplasty. OBJECTIVE--Preliminary assessment of the efficacy and safety of the low speed rotational angioplasty catheter system (ROTACS). DESIGN--Open prospective trial. SETTING--Department of cardiology in a teaching hospital. PATIENTS--Eleven patients (10 with chronic stable angina and one with acute coronary occlusion after conventional angioplasty) in whom a coronary angiogram showed occlusion or critical stenosis of the coronary artery (right in seven patients, circumflex in two, and left anterior descending in two). The nature or severity of the lesion ruled out conventional coronary angioplasty. INTERVENTIONS--An attempt was made to cross the lesion with a rotating guide wire with a blunt swelling at its tip. Where necessary progress was assessed by simultaneous injection of contrast into both main coronary arteries. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Progress of the ROTACS through the lesion that allowed a guide wire to pass into the distal vessel was regarded as a device specific success. When a guide wire crossed the lesion aided only by the support of the ROTACS without the use of rotation this was counted as a success that was not device specific. Failure to cross the lesion and any associated complications were noted. RESULTS--The ROTACS crossed only two of the 10 chronic lesions (20% device specific success rate); however, the support it provided enabled a guide wire to cross a further two lesions and allowed subsequent successful angioplasty in four of the 10 patients. One of these four patients presented after five months with recurrent angina requiring bypass grafting. The other three were symptom free at follow up seven months after the procedure. In the one patient with acute coronary occlusion the ROTACS was advanced over the guide wire to allow passage of an angioplasty balloon where this had previously proved impossible. An excellent final result was obtained and this patient remains symptom free. Three of the six patients in whom the ROTACS was unsuccessful had coronary artery dissection without sequelae. Three patients required subsequent elective coronary bypass grafting for control of symptoms while the other three remain well on medical treatment. CONCLUSIONS--The ROTACS may extend the range of patients with coronary artery occlusion or critical stenosis who can be treated non-surgically. The low device specific success rate (20%) achieved in this study indicates that it should be compared with other simpler mechanical devices that may be just as effective. 
The acute and chronic effects of G-lasing on femoral vein grafts in dogs. Each year, 5% of all coronary artery bypass operations are repeat procedures, and 15%-30% of coronary artery vein grafts occlude within the first eighteen months postoperatively. To evaluate the macroscopic and histologic effects of G-lasing on vein grafts and their patency, femoral veins were used to bypass bilaterally induced stenoses of femoral arteries in 10 dogs. The left vein grafts were G-lased with a 1.5 mm, hot-tipped argon laser at 5 watts for ninety seconds, while the right grafts were used as the controls. Acutely, each vein graft demonstrated no evidence of charring or perforation. The percentage of endothelium present in the G-lased vein grafts was consistently less than 5%, whereas the control vein grafts had an average of 70%. After ten weeks, the animals were sacrificed, and the vein grafts were evaluated for histologic changes and patency. There were no significant microscopic differences between the G-lased and control vein grafts. A statistically significant difference in graft patency was not achieved between G-Lased and control vein grafts at 10 weeks, but only a small number of grafts were studied. Further studies will be needed to evaluate the effects of G-lasing on the long-term patency of vein grafts. 
A single base mutation in type I procollagen (COL1A1) that converts glycine alpha 1-541 to aspartate in a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta: detection of the mutation with a carbodiimide reaction of DNA heteroduplexes and direct sequencing of products of the PCR. Skin fibroblasts from a proband with a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta synthesized both apparently normal type I procollagen and a type I procollagen that had slow electrophoretic mobility because of posttranslational overmodifications. The thermal unfolding of the collagen molecules as assayed by protease digestion was about 2 degrees C lower than normal. It is surprising, however, that collagenase A and B fragments showed an essentially normal melting profile. Assay of cDNA heteroduplexes with a new technique involving carbodiimide modification indicated a mutation at about the codon for amino acid 550 of the alpha 1(I) chain. Subsequent amplification of the cDNA by the PCR and nucleotide sequencing revealed a single-base mutation that substituted an aspartate codon for glycine at position alpha 1-541 in the COL1A1 gene. The results here confirm previous indications that the effects of glycine substitutions in type I procollagen are highly position specific. They also demonstrate that a recently described technique for detecting single-base differences by carbodiimide modification of DNA heteroduplexes can be effectively employed to locate mutations in large genes. 
Significance of CSF immunoglobulins in monitoring neurologic disease activity in Behcet's disease. We examined the intrathecal production of immunoglobulins (Ig) G, A, and M in 16 patients with Behcet's disease, 13 of whom have CNS involvement, and in 40 neurologic controls. Oligoclonal IgA and IgM bands were mainly detected in CSF samples from patients with active neuro-Behcet's disease and were documented to disappear when neurologic manifestations remit. Oligoclonal IgG bands, however, were not related to disease activity and were also found in some neurologic controls. High immunoglobulin index values were detected in both active and quiescent diseases and were high in some patients with impaired blood-CSF barriers. The study presented here demonstrates that CSF oligoclonal IgA and IgM may be helpful in monitoring CNS disease activity in neuro-Behcet's and could be useful in understanding the pathogenesis of this disease. 
Radiology in the intensive-care unit. Portable chest radiography is an essential component of clinical patient management in the intensive-care unit. With routine use of this procedure, unexpected cardiopulmonary abnormalities are frequently detected, and malposition or complications of intravascular devices and endotracheal, thoracostomy, or nasogastric tubes are also commonly found. The pulmonary parenchyma may be assessed for changes of acute lung injury, cardiogenic edema, areas of pneumonitis, atelectasis, or other abnormal collections of fluid or air. In mechanically ventilated patients, barotrauma occurs frequently and may be manifested by subtle intrathoracic collections of air. Technical factors may limit the resolution of the anteroposterior chest radiograph obtained at the bedside, but crucial clinical information is often gained. Portable chest radiographic findings, the role of computed tomography and ultrasonography, and interventional radiologic procedures pertinent to patients in the intensive-care unit are reviewed. 
Cervical carcinoma: MR imaging with an endorectal surface coil. Ten consecutive patients with biopsy-proved invasive cervical carcinoma underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with both a standard body coil and with an endorectal surface coil. The endorectal coil provided a markedly improved signal-to-noise ratio, enabling the use of small fields of view; thus, the images had significantly improved in-plane resolution. The images were assigned an MR imaging stage based on the clinical staging system of the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics. Vaginal wall, vaginal fornix, parametrium, and pelvic side-wall invasion by tumor were all well demonstrated. When compared with body coil images, the endorectal coil images provided increased anatomic detail and demonstrated tissue planes between tumor and normal structures that were not seen on the body coil images. This preliminary investigation indicates that use of an endorectal surface coil is a promising technique to obtain high-resolution images of the female genital tract. This technique has the potential to improve the accuracy of staging for cervical carcinoma. 
Are angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition and aldosterone antagonism equivalent in hypertensive patients over fifty? The effects of inhibiting angiotensin converting enzyme with perindopril and aldosterone with spironolactone were tested in hypertensive patients over fifty. Accordingly, 75 patients with mild hypertension aged 50 to 70 were randomly divided into three groups for a double-blind 8 week comparison of the actions of placebo, 4 to 8 mg/day perindopril, and 37.5 to 75 mg/day spironolactone. Side-effects caused one patient to withdraw from placebo and one from spironolactone treatment. Mean blood pressure rose by 2.4 mm Hg after placebo but dropped by 7.4 and 8.6 after perindopril and spironolactone (P less than .01). Placebo, perindopril, and spironolactone did not alter blood glucose or plasma potassium, but induced, respectively, variations of -0.09, 0, and +0.34 mmol/L in cholesterol (P = .04), and -0.02, -0.05, and +0.27 mmol/L in triglycerides (P less than .01). After the three treatments, changes in angiotensin converting enzyme activity averaged -1, -6, and -1 mU/mL (P less than .01), in active renin -2, +18, and +28 pg/mL (P less than .01), and in aldosterone, +15, +8, and +95 pg/mL (P less than .01). Placebo, perindopril, and spironolactone did not alter microalbuminuria, but reduced urinary kallikrein activity by 0.9, 1.8, and 5.4 mU/mmol creatinine (P = .04). Although short-term administration of spironolactone raised renin and aldosterone markedly and lipids moderately (possibly because of volume contraction), the present results show that perindopril and spironolactone are both safe and effective for treating hypertension at the age of 50 or older. 
Iodine-125 seed implantation as an adjunct to surgery in advanced recurrent squamous cell cancer of the head and neck. Survival for extensive recurrent squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck remains poor, with the major cause of death being local recurrence. Surgical implantation of iodine-125 interstitial seeds allows tumoricidal doses of radiation to be delivered to residual tumor while minimizing radiation doses to the surrounding tissues. From 1978 to 1988, 39 implantations were performed on 35 patients for extensive recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. The decision for implantation was based on positive margins or close to resection margins from frozen sections after salvage resection. The determinate 5-year disease-free survival was 41%, with both the overall and no evidence of disease 5-year survivals being 29%. Significant complications occurred in 36% of all cases. This figure increased to 56% when flap reconstruction was required. Possible reasons for this seemingly high complication rate are discussed. Considering the advanced nature of these recurrent carcinomas, surgical resection with iodine-125 seed implantation appears to be an effective method of managing disease that might otherwise be judged unresectable and treated for palliation only. 
Pathological features of Crohn's disease determining perforation. Even if Crohn's disease (CD) stenoses are related to perforating complications, such as abscess or fistula, it remains unclear why only some stenoses lead to such complications. We have studied the surgical specimens in 94 cases of CD to characterize the anatomical features of stenosis. We found no differences between group A (patients with perforation) and group B (noncomplicated patients) as far as extent of lesion, number of stenoses, and the caliber of the stenotic bowel. In CD of the ileum, the wall thickness of the stenoses was significantly different: 12.0 +/- 3.4 mm in group A and 7.6 +/- 3.1 mm in group B (p less than 0.001). In colonic CD, the length of stenosis was significantly greater in patients with perforation. Duration of symptoms, age at surgery, and sex did not correlate with the increased thickness or with perforating complications. These observations suggest that the fibrotic gastrointestinal tract, poorly distensible, may increase the intraluminal pressure above the stenosis and in this way squeeze bowel content through mucosal fissures of the inflamed bowel. Evaluation and monitoring of wall thickness may help in prompting surgery before the disease is complicated by perforation. 
Squamous carcinoma cell lines produce 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D, but fail to respond to its prodifferentiating effect. The active metabolite of vitamin D3, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D], is produced by normal human keratinocytes (NKC) and regulates their differentiation. Squamous carcinoma cell (SCC) lines lack the ability to differentiate in vitro, which might involve defective 1,25(OH)2D synthesis or response. To address this possibility we obtained four SCC lines (12F2, 12B2, 25, and A431) and first determined whether they could produce 1,25(OH)2D from its substrate 25 hydroxyvitamin D3 (250HD). All could (12F2 greater than NKC greater than 25 greater than 12B2 greater than A431). Furthermore, exogenously added 1,25(OH)2D inhibited 1,25(OH)2D production and stimulated 24,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 [24,25(OH)2D] production in all cell lines but with different potency (25 = A431 greater than NKC greater than 12B2 greater than 12F2). Cellular binding studies suggested that the high-affinity binding site for 1,25(OH)2D in NKC is not found in 12F2 and 12B2. When the effect of 1,25(OH)2D on differentiation was determined, only NKC responded with an increase in cornified envelope formation, although some of the cell lines responded to the proliferative [at low 1,25(OH)2D concentration] or antiproliferative [at high 1,25(OH)2D concentration] effect of 1,25(OH)2D. Thus, although SCC lines synthesize 1,25(OH)2D and respond to exogenous 1,25(OH)2D with respect to appropriate regulation of endogenous 250HD metabolism, these cell lines fail to respond to the differentiating influence of this vitamin D metabolite. 
Small cell carcinoma of the stomach: a clinicopathologic study of 17 cases. Of 17 cases of small cell carcinoma of the stomach, three were early and 14 were advanced. Grossly, the tumors were mostly polypoid at the early stage, and as they advanced, deep ulcerations developed. Histologically, only one tumor was "oat cell type," and the other 16 were "intermediate cell type." With regard to tumor components, five were "pure" tumor, and 12 were "composite" admixing glandular and/or squamous differentiation. Argyrophil cells were seen in eight tumors. Immunohistochemically positive cells for chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, and keratin were seen in 12, 10, and 7 tumors, respectively. Carcinoembryonic antigen was negative in the small cell component of most tumors as opposed to strong positivity in the glandular component. Electron-dense core granules were evident in seven of nine tumors examined. These findings suggest that histologic variety is quite characteristic of the small cell carcinomas of the stomach, and this type of carcinoma takes an aggressive clinical course like its counterparts in other organs. 
Disruption of the blood-brain barrier in open and closed cranial window preparations in rats. The goal of this study was to determine whether the severity of disruption of the blood-brain barrier during acute hypertension is similar in open and closed cranial window preparations. Intravital fluorescent microscopy and fluorescein-labeled albumin were used to evaluate disruption of the blood-brain barrier under control conditions and during acute arterial hypertension in 10 rats equipped with an open cranial window and in six rats equipped with a closed cranial window. Permeability of the blood-brain barrier was quantified by calculating the clearance of fluorescein-labeled albumin and by counting the number of microvascular leaky sites under control conditions and during acute hypertension. Pressure in cerebral venules and intracranial pressure were measured in rats equipped with an open cranial window and a closed cranial window, respectively, under control conditions and during acute hypertension. In rats equipped with an open cranial window, arterial pressure increased from 118 +/- 6 to 189 +/- 3 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM) and pial venous pressure increased from 7 +/- 1 to 22 +/- 3 mm Hg during acute hypertension induced with 30 micrograms/kg/min phenylephrine for 5 minutes. In addition, the clearance of fluorescent albumin increased from 0.11 +/- 0.03 to 1.2 +/- 0.4 ml/sec x 10(-6) and the number of microvascular leaky sites increased from 0 to 25 +/- 1 during phenylephrine infusion. In rats equipped with a closed cranial window, arterial pressure increased from 122 +/- 5 to 187 +/- 7 mm Hg and intracranial pressure increased from 3 +/- 1 to 12 +/- 1 mm Hg during the intravenous infusion of 30 micrograms/kg/min phenylephrine for 5 minutes. 
Are there interactions and relations between genetic and environmental factors predisposing to high blood pressure? An overview of published observations suggests that both genetic predisposition and environment work together to produce hypertension in most persons. High blood pressure before age 55 occurs 3.8 times more often among persons with a strong positive family history of high blood pressure. Much of the total variability in blood pressure in modern populations seems attributable to genetic factors. Estimates of the proportion of the variance attributable to all genetic factors (heritability [H2]) vary from 25% in pedigree studies to 65% in twin studies for sitting diastolic blood pressure. Several biochemical traits associated with high blood pressure are highly genetic (H2, 78-84%) and may help elucidate the pathophysiology of high blood pressure. While pertinent environmental factors such as salt intake, alcohol use, and amount of exercise also correlate significantly among relatives, only 7% of the total variance of diastolic blood pressure seems attributable to all shared environmental factors in family households. Thus most familial aggregation of high blood pressure appears to be due to genes rather than shared family environment. Practical benefit may result from identifying familial predisposition in multiple siblings with high blood pressure before age 55 and lipid abnormalities (labeled "familial dyslipidemic hypertension"). About 12% of high blood pressure patients have familial dyslipidemic hypertension and also have high risk of early coronary heart disease. Hyperinsulinemia and central obesity as well as high triglycerides and low high density lipoprotein cholesterol are prominent features of familial dyslipidemic hypertension. 
Immunohistochemical study of childhood rhabdomyosarcomas and related neoplasms. Results of an Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma study project. The authors assessed a panel of immunohistochemical stains against 109 pediatric solid tumors, primarily rhabdomyosarcomas, under the auspices of the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study. Fresh tumor tissue received from participating organizations was divided into portions that were either frozen or fixed in formalin, alcohol, or B5. Immunostaining was performed by the avidin-biotin complex method using monoclonal antibodies to desmin, neurofilaments, vimentin, cytokeratin, and leukocyte common antigen on cryostat sections. Tissue was also embedded in paraffin and stained with antimuscle-specific actin (MSA) and polyclonal antibodies to desmin, creatine kinase M subunit (CKM), myoglobin, and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). Antidesmin staining of cryostat sections was the most sensitive indicator of rhabdomyosarcoma (58 of 62 specimens positive). Results with this reagent in alcohol-fixed and formalin-fixed tissue were similar (46 of 56 positive versus 43 of 56 positive, respectively) and comparable with results with anti-MSA in formalin-fixed tissue (43 of 55 positive). However, the proportion of cells stained by antidesmin was higher in alcohol-fixed tissue than in formalin-fixed tissue. Staining with antimyoglobin and anti-CKM was much less satisfactory, with positivity rates of 17 of 37 and 11 of 57, respectively, in formalin-fixed rhabdomyosarcomas. Immunostaining of muscle markers revealed evidence of myogenesis in six undifferentiated sarcomas and in two sarcomas with inadequate histologic study on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections. However, positivity was also noticed in samples of fibromatosis, Wilms' tumor, ectomesenchyoma, peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor, renal rhabdoid tumor, myositis ossificans, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, and embryonal sarcoma of the liver. The authors conclude that combined use of antidesmin and anti-MSA enhances the diagnosis of childhood sarcomas, especially when employed with other techniques such as electron microscopic study. 
Fistulous degeneration of a giant esophageal ulcer in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Esophageal involvement in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease can take many forms, including the recently described giant solitary ulcerations thought to be due to cytomegalovirus or, more recently, Mycobacterium species. Current experience suggests that steroids may provide symptom relief and healing in selected patients. We report a case of fistulous change in one such ulcer, with documented endoscopic, radiologic, and pathologic findings. No organism was identified by culture or pathologic staining, leading to a postulated role for the persistent irritation of medications. 
Angiotensin II receptor antagonist markedly reduces mortality in salt-loaded Dahl S rats. We investigated the effect of blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) on morbidity and hypertension in salt-loaded Dahl salt-sensitive (Dahl S) rats. Six-week-old male Dahl S rats (n = 198) were fed a high sodium diet (8% NaCl) for 10 weeks. One group of rats (n = 91) was treated with 30 mg/kg/day of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist, DuP 753, whereas the control group (n = 107) was left untreated. Blood pressure rose steeply in both groups, reaching levels above 200 mm Hg by week 6. DuP 753-treated animals were less hypertensive than controls between weeks 3 and 5 of the study, but had similar blood pressure before and after that time. Although the angiotensin II antagonist had only a transient effect on blood pressure it markedly prolonged survival. After 10 weeks, 68.3% of rats receiving DuP 753, but only 30.1% of controls, were still alive (P less than .0001). Higher morbidity in controls than in DuP 753-treated rats was also suggested by body weights. Following 6 weeks of high salt diet, untreated rats progressively lost weight while DuP 753-treated animals maintained a steady body weight. These results show that the angiotensin II receptor antagonist DuP 753 greatly enhanced survival in salt-loaded Dahl S rats although it reduced blood pressure only transiently. Our data are consistent with a contribution of the RAS to morbidity in this model of hypertension. 
Epithelial-myoepithelial carcinoma of salivary glands. Four cases of epithelial-myoepithelial carcinoma of the salivary glands arose as painless masses in patients over 60 years old, three in the parotid and one in the submandibular gland. Histologically, all the tumours were composed of small ducts with a double cell lining surrounded by a basement membrane. The inner cells were epithelial and the outer cells myoepithelial, the latter usually possessing clear cytoplasm. There was a variable degree of intervening hyalinised stroma. All the tumours were partly encapsulated, but also displayed local invasiveness. One of the tumours also showed areas of dedifferentiation when it later recurred and metastasised. The other three were apparently cured by initial excision, with adjuvant radiotherapy in one instance. In the past this tumour has been described as clear cell adenoma, and it was only recently that its true malignant nature, albeit low grade, was recognised. Reports of epithelial-myoepithelial carcinoma are still relatively few, with only one case described from Britain. It is recommended that this histologically distinct neoplasm deserves wider recognition. 
Vascular rehabilitation: benefits of a structured exercise/risk modification program. A vascular rehabilitation program was designed to increase exercise tolerance and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with lower extremity arterial occlusive disease. Sixty-eight patients (32 men, 36 women); ages 55 to 85 years (mean, 68 years) with claudication 30 (44%), or recovering from lower extremity revascularization 36 (53%), or endovascular procedures 2 (3%) entered the vascular rehabilitation program. Each underwent a physical examination, risk factor assessment, noninvasive arterial studies, and cardiac evaluation. A history was taken from each patient also. Six patients (9%) were excluded on recognition of silent myocardial ischemia. Sixty-two patients (91%) were accepted for exercise training in a program designed to offer 24 (1-hour) monitored exercise sessions, 12 (1-hour) personalized education lectures, and development of a home maintenance exercise program. No deaths or major morbidity occurred. Seventeen patients (27%) did not finish the program, eight (13%) because of development of significant cardiac, extremity, or cerebrovascular disease and nine for nonmedical reasons. Of the 45 patients (73%) who completed the program, 38 (88%) had documented increases in walking distances of greater than 100% (122% to 450%). All 45 patients designed home exercise programs, and 88% of the smokers quit. Long-term follow-up was available on 100% of the patients. Thirty-eight patients (84%) have been followed for 2 years or more. Thirty-eight (84%) maintained or improved walking distances recorded on exit from the program. Thirty of the 36 patients (83%) who stopped smoking remained nonsmokers. Significant reductions in cholesterol were seen at 1 year, and significant reductions in triglycerides were seen at 12 weeks and 1 year. 
Are history and physical examination a good screening test for sleep apnea? OBJECTIVE: To determine whether presenting clinical history, pharyngeal examination, and the overall subjective impression of the clinician could serve as a sensitive screening test for sleep apnea. DESIGN: Blinded comparison of history and physical examination with results of nocturnal polysomnography. SETTING: Sleep clinic of a tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: A total of 410 patients referred for suspected sleep apnea syndrome. Most patients reported snoring. MEASUREMENTS: All patients were asked standard questions and given an examination relevant to the diagnosis of the sleep apnea syndrome, and all had full nocturnal polysomnography. Patients with more than ten episodes of apnea or hypopnea per hour of sleep were classified as having sleep apnea. Stepwise linear logistic regression was used to develop two predictive models of sleep apnea: one based on the presence of characteristic clinical features, age, sex, and body mass index; and one based on subjective clinical impression. RESULTS: The prevalence of sleep apnea in our patients was 46%. Only age, body mass index, male sex, and snoring were found to be predictors of sleep apnea. The logistic rule discriminated between patients with and without sleep apnea (receiver operating characteristic [ROC] area, 0.77 [95% Cl, 0.73 to 0.82]). For patients with a predicted probability of apnea of less than 20%, the clinical model had 94% sensitivity and 28% specificity. Subjective impression alone identified correctly only 52% of patients with sleep apnea and had a specificity of 70%. CONCLUSIONS: In patients with a high predicted probability of the sleep apnea syndrome, subjective impression alone or any combination of clinical features cannot serve as a reliable screening test. However, in patients with a low predicted probability of sleep apnea, the model based on clinical data was sufficiently sensitive to permit about a 30% reduction in the number of unnecessary sleep studies. 
Overview: diagnosis of ischemic heart disease by noninvasive techniques. Noninvasive tests have greatly improved in their ability to diagnose coronary artery disease. In addition, new testing modalities have been added to our armamentarium. However, no test is clearly superior to all others in every clinical circumstance. Moreover, none have been shown to provide sensitivities and specificities consistently above 90%. Therefore, their use for diagnostic purposes in populations with a lower prevalence of disease is only of moderate value. Conversely, for the assessment of the functional significance of coronary artery disease or prognosis in patients with ischemic heart disease, the addition of noninvasive imaging modalities to exercise testing is of high value. 
Screening of gene deletions by polymerase chain reaction in Japanese patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Gene deletions were screened in 49 Japanese Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients from 43 families, using the polymerase chain reaction. Enzymatic amplification was carried out on six regions prone to deletion. Fifteen of 43 families (33%) had gene deletions in at least one of the six regions. This frequency was almost the same as that previously reported in Caucasians. The mid-part of the dystrophin gene was the location most frequently deleted. The frequency of deletion of the region encompassing exon 45 was higher in Japanese families (18.4%) than in Caucasians. 
Unexplained displacement of ipsilateral ovary and fallopian tube. During routine laparoscopy, the right fallopian tube and ovary were noted to be displaced. Ovarian and fallopian tube tissue were found on biopsy of adjacent omentum. The most probable cause is asymptomatic torsion of the right adnexum; therefore, evaluation of the renal system with intravenous pyelogram is probably not necessary. 
Choledochoduodenostomy. Analysis of 71 cases followed for 5 to 15 years. To investigate the long-term effectiveness of choledochoduodenostomy (CDD), the experience with 71 patients followed for 5 or more years after CDD was analyzed retrospectively. From 1968 to 1984, 134 patients underwent CDD. Eight patients (6%) died in the immediate postoperative period, 55 left the hospital, 8 of them were lost to follow-up, and 47 were followed but died before 5 years elapsed after CDD. The remaining 71 patients form the data base for this analysis: 38 were followed for more than 5 years, 25 were followed for more than 10 years, and 8 were followed for more than 15 years (mean 12.1 years +/- 1.3 SEM). Choledocholithiasis, chronic pancreatitis, and postoperative stricture were the indications for CDD. Cholangitis was observed in only three patients. The diameter of the common bile duct (CBD) was large in most patients (mean 18 mm +/- 0.9 SEM). These results infer that CDD is effective to treat non-neoplastic obstructing lesions of the distal CBD on a long-term basis and that the presence of a dilated CBD (more than 16 mm) that allows the construction of a CDD more than 14 mm is essential to obtain good results. 
Hemodynamic and metabolic effects of venoarterial cardiopulmonary support in coronary artery disease. Coronary angioplasty was performed on 14 high-risk patients supported with venoarterial partial cardiopulmonary bypass. Hemodynamic, metabolic and physiologic parameters were monitored to assess the effect of cardiopulmonary support in conscious patients. Cardiopulmonary support caused a decrease in systolic (45 +/- 17 to 27 +/- 14 mm Hg, p less than 0.001), diastolic (23 +/- 12 to 14 +/- 8 mm Hg, p less than 0.005) and mean (29.7 +/- 13.2 to 18 +/- 9 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) pulmonary artery pressures. Aortic systolic (129 +/- 18 to 106 +/- 17 mm Hg, p less than 0.001), mean (89 +/- 19 to 84 +/- 19 mm Hg, p less than 0.05) and pulse (64 +/- 17 to 37 +/- 16 mm Hg, p less than 0.00001) pressures also decreased. Heart rate and aortic diastolic pressures were unchanged. End-systolic wall stress (122 +/- 48 x 10(3) to 96 +/- 44 x 10(3) dynes/cm2, p less than 0.001) and left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (5.7 +/- 0.8 to 5.5 +/- 0.9 cm, p less than 0.05) were reduced during partial cardiopulmonary bypass. After initiation of cardiopulmonary support, normal lactate extraction across the coronary circulation was diminished or converted to lactate production (38 +/- 23 to 2 +/- 29%, p less than 0.005). There was a marked reduction in hematocrit (41 +/- 4 to 28 +/- 5%, p less than 0.0001) and platelet count (259,000 +/- 57,600/ml to 145,900 +/- 46,000/ml, p less than 0.0001) after bypass. Cardiopulmonary bypass successfully supported all patients during balloon inflation, for an optimal angioplasty result. 
Management of hypertensive crises. The availability of potent antihypertensive drugs that will decrease markedly elevated blood pressure within minutes to hours has changed the concepts of definition and therapy of hypertensive emergencies and urgencies. Intravenous infusion of sodium nitroprusside can be used in the truly emergent situation and is effective, reliable, and safe. While oral therapy is more convenient, it is not as consistently effective as parenteral administration and can lead to excessive reductions in blood pressure that are more difficult to manage than when short-acting agents are given intravenously. 
Cytomegalovirus ileitis presenting as massive rectal bleeding in infancy. Two Zambian infants presented with massive rectal bleeding caused by cytomegalovirus ileitis. The first was seropositive for HIV and the second seronegative, though her mother was seropositive. Both infants died. 
Mefloquine-resistant falciparum malaria on the Thai-Burmese border Mefloquine is the treatment of choice for uncomplicated multiresistant falciparum malaria, and in combination with sulphadoxine and pyrimethamine (MSP) at a single dose of 15/30/1.5 mg/kg, respectively, has been used in Thailand for the past 6 years. In 1985-86, MSP cured over 98% of 5192 patients with falciparum malaria on the Thai-Burmese border. 4 years later we studied the efficacy of MSP in 395 patients at the same location. The cure rate at 28 days was 70.8% (95% Cl 67-77.2%). The proportion of early treatment failures (in whom parasitaemia did not clear) had risen from 0.27 to 3.7% (p less than 0.0001). Failure rates were 50% in children under 6 years old, 29% in the 6-15 age group, and 19% in adults (p less than 0.001). Patients with early treatment failure were retreated with 25 mg/kg mefloquine, but 27% had a further recrudescence of infection within 28 days. The mean (95% Cl) serum mefloquine concentration at the time of first recrudescence was 638 (546-730) ng/ml, a value previously associated with successful treatment. Mefloquine concentrations were no lower in those with recrudescent infections than in age-matched successfully treated patients, suggesting that pharmacokinetic factors were not responsible for the high treatment-failure rate. Plasmodium falciparum has developed resistance to mefloquine rapidly, despite the addition of sulphadoxine and pyrimethamine and strict control of drug administration. The MSP combination should now be abandoned. 
EPA in the prevention of restenosis post PTCA. The effect of fish oil on restenosis was evaluated in patients undergoing coronary balloon angioplasty. In addition to routine pharmacotherapy, subjects were given 2.8 g of eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) daily. Treatment was started within twenty-four hours after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). After six months of therapy, participants were subjected to coronary arteriography, exercise scintigraphy, exercise electrocardiography, or clinical evaluation. Follow-up evaluation involved 97 coronary lesions in 85 patients. Partial or significant restenosis occurred in 36.5% of patients and 33% of vessels. The presence of severe stenosis before PTCA, dissection, thrombus, multilesion PTCA, and template bleeding time values were not correlated with restenosis. Dilation of the left anterior descending (LAD) and a residual stenosis greater than or equal to 35% were associated with restenosis. Approximately 20% of the patients related difficulty in taking the fish oil. Furthermore, these results show no advantage over expected restenosis rates. 
Regional three-dimensional geometry and function of left ventricles with fibrous aneurysms. A cine-computed tomography study. BACKGROUND. To assess the extent and nature of the dysfunction surrounding aneurysms of the left ventricle (LV), we examined the parameters of local and global three-dimensional shape, size, and function of LVs of eight patients with histologically confirmed anterior fibrous aneurysms. METHODS AND RESULTS. Three-dimensional reconstructions of each LV were made from 10-12 short-axis fast cine-angiographic computed tomography (cine-CT) slices encompassing the entire heart at end diastole and end systole. Regional three-dimensional wall thickness, thickening, motion, curvature, and stress index were calculated for 84 elements encompassing the entire LV. The aneurysmal border was defined by a sharp decrease in end-diastolic wall thickness and separated the LV into an aneurysmal zone and a normal zone that was further divided into adjacent normal (AN) and remote normal (RN) zones. As expected, thickening was negligible in both the aneurysmal and the border zones. Although both the AN and the RN zones had normal wall thickness (1.05 +/- 0.20 and 1.09 +/- 0.20 cm, respectively), thickening was depressed in the AN (0.22 +/- 0.08 cm) but not the RN (0.44 +/- 0.19 cm) zones. The size of the dysfunction zone (defined as less than 2 mm thickening) was found to be considerably greater than the anatomic size of the aneurysm (60.9 +/- 13.7% versus 33.6 +/- 7.6% of the left ventricular endocardial area, respectively; p less than 0.001). In addition, the AN zone had a smaller curvature and a higher stress index than the RN zone. CONCLUSIONS. LVs with fibrous aneurysms are characterized by a relatively large region of nonfunction that encompasses the thin aneurysmal area and its transitional border zone, a normally functioning remote zone, and an intermediate region of normal wall thickness but with reduced function, which may be attributed to its low curvature and high stress index. 
Delayed postanoxic encephalopathy after strangulation. Serial neuroradiological and neurochemical studies. A 13-year-old boy was the victim of attempted strangulation. His condition had returned to normal by the sixth day after the assault; however, from the seventh day, choreoathetosis, dystonia, and marked pseudobulbar paralysis developed in the boy. The computed tomographic scans and T2-weighted magnetic resonance images that were obtained at this time revealed low-density and high-signal intensities in the region of the bilateral putamen and caudate nucleus. These symptoms and the changes in his computed tomographic scans and magnetic resonance images subsided gradually during a 2-month period. Sequential analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid for gamma-aminobutyric acid and dopamine concentrations during his illness revealed reciprocal changes with normal recovery. Because of the delayed onset of neurological changes and the cerebrospinal fluid showing reversible symptoms, the delayed encephalopathy after strangulation had been related to the biochemical alterations that followed anoxia in the vulnerable basal ganglia. 
The relationship between intelligence and memory following minor or mild closed head injury: greater impairment in memory than intelligence. This study investigated the performance of patients with minor or mild closed head injury and age/education-matched normal controls on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) and the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R). The results demonstrated that the control group had significantly higher scores than the patients with closed head injury on all WAIS-R and WMS-R index scores. Further analysis revealed that the patients with closed head injury showed a greater impairment in delayed memory when directly compared to intellectual performance that was not seen in the control group. These results are discussed in relation to findings in patients with more severe closed head injury, the construction of the WAIS-R and the WMS-R, and the performance patterns of the two groups. 
Correction of non-24-hour sleep/wake cycle by melatonin in a blind retarded boy. A 9-year-old, blind boy with severe mental retardation with a chronic sleep/wake disturbance had a circadian rhythm of 24.75 hours and an internal desynchronization of the endogenous rhythms. Treatment with oral melatonin given at 6 PM induced a regular sleep/wake pattern. Melatonin, in this patient, convincingly entrained the endogenous rhythm to the appropriate chronological 24-hour day. 
Escherichia coli bacteremia in children. A review of 91 cases in 10 years. We reviewed 91 cases of pediatric Escherichia coli bacteremia during a 10-year period. Thirty one patients were afebrile; a significantly greater proportion of these patients were aged less than 1 month, had ampicillin-resistant E coli isolates, or had persistent bacteremia 24 hours after initiating antibiotic therapy. Infection was community acquired in 65 cases; associated urinary tract infection was six times more common in this setting than in nosocomially acquired infections. In 85 cases at least 1 underlying medical condition/focus of infection was identified at the time the positive blood culture was obtained, the most common were immune deficiency states (38 cases), urinary tract infection (29 cases), and lesions of the gastrointestinal tract (27 cases). Polymicrobial bacteremia occurred in five cases. Twelve patients died; significantly associated with death were hypotension requiring pressor therapy, presence of a central venous catheter, and neutropenia. 
Cocaine-related symptoms in patients presenting to an urban emergency department. STUDY OBJECTIVES: Cocaine abuse is a serious social problem that precipitates a significant number of emergency hospital encounters. To determine the nature of cocaine-related symptoms, we studied patients with cocaine use presenting to all adult services of an urban emergency department. DESIGN: Review of consecutive cases, with analysis of clinical features. SETTING: All adult EDs of an urban teaching hospital. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Patients acknowledging recent use of cocaine (within 72 hours) and/or with cocaine detected on a toxicologic screen. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Psychiatric complaints accounted for 44 (30.6%) presentations, followed by neurologic (17.4%), cardiopulmonary (16%), trauma (11.8%), and addiction-related (11.1%) symptoms. Cardiopulmonary symptoms were more frequently associated with intranasal than with IV or smoked cocaine (P = .003). Suicidal intent was the most common psychiatric reason for presentation, occurring in 24 patients (16.6%). Seventeen presented with trauma, including three involved in motor vehicle accidents. CONCLUSION: Cardiopulmonary symptoms such as chest pain and palpitations may be significantly more frequent in patients who use intranasal cocaine; suicidal intent is common among patients presenting with psychiatric symptoms related to cocaine; and the range of cocaine-related symptoms is varied, including not only psychiatric and cardiopulmonary symptoms but also trauma. 
Surgical versus medical treatment for epilepsy. II. Outcome related to social areas. We conducted a retrospective parallel cohort study comparing surgical and medical treatment for epilepsy. The surgical group contained all 201 patients treated with resective surgery for epilepsy in Norway since the first operation in 1949 until January 1988. The 185 patients in the control group, medically treated only, were closely matched for year of treatment, age at treatment, sex, seizure type, and neurologic deficit before treatment. Between 75 and 95% of the survivors (median 17 years after treatment) completed two questionnaires on their social situation. Although surgical treatment improved the seizure situation (about one-fourth had some neurologic deficit), a considerably smaller long-range influence on different social aspects was observed. There were no significant differences between the two groups in educational status, social pensions, social status, marital status, fertility, dependency in residential situation, the need for aid in daily activities of living (ADL), or the need for being looked after, when we controlled for pretreatment status. In all, 25.3% of the surgically treated patients and 8.5% of the controls were not receiving anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) at the time of investigation (Mann-Whitney U test, two-tailed p = 0.0011). A considerably higher proportion of the surgically treated (53.2%) than control patients (24.2%) claimed that the treatment had improved their "working ability" (Mann-Whitney U test, two-tailed p less than 0.0001), but this resulted in significant improvements in the actual working situation only for those in regular education or work before treatment (chi 2 = 6.514, p = 0.038). 
Iridium-192 brachytherapy in the treatment of cancer of the prostate. Aggressive radiotherapy was used in 170 patients with advanced localized carcinoma of the prostate. After pelvic lymphadenectomy, 192Ir brachytherapy was used to deliver 3500 cGy to the prostate within 2 days. External-beam therapy (4500 cGy) was then given to a total of 8000 cGy. Random biopsies 18 months afterward were negative for residual cancer in 62 of 83 patients (75%), and 37 of 45 patients (82%) with pathologically proved localized disease remain without evidence of disease. Morbidity was significantly reduced in the most recent 70 patients by improvements in technique. The authors believe such therapy should be considered for patients with advanced stage B2 or C disease in particular. 
Contributions of [Ca2+]i, [Pi]i, and pHi to altered diastolic myocyte tone during partial metabolic inhibition. Ischemia may cause increased or decreased distensibility of the left ventricle, but the cellular mechanisms involved have not been clarified. We examined the possible contributions of changes in intracellular inorganic phosphate, pH, and Ca2+ concentrations to altered diastolic function in cultured myocytes subjected to partial metabolic inhibition. Paced cultured embryonic chick and adult rabbit ventricular myocytes superfused with 20 mM 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) exhibited an increase in end-diastolic intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and an upward shift in end-diastolic cell position. These results indicate that glycolytic blockade increases diastolic and systolic calcium in paced ventricular myocytes, and that this elevated diastolic calcium influences the extent of diastolic relaxation. In contrast, paced ventricular myocytes superfused with 1 mM cyanide (CN) exhibited a similar increase in end-diastolic [Ca2+]i but a decrease in end-diastolic cell position and amplitude of motion. Although changes in ATP contents were similar in both groups (2DG, -29.9%; CN, -40.1%), alterations of intracellular pH and inorganic phosphate concentrations were different. In 2DG-treated cells, pHi did not decrease significantly (7.18 +/- 0.04 to 7.12 +/- 0.11, n = 14) but in the CN group it decreased markedly within 6 min (7.18 +/- 0.04 to 6.76 +/- 0.11, n = 11, P less than 0.01). Intracellular inorganic phosphate decreased slightly in the 2DG group (-14.8%, NS) but increased in cells exposed to CN (45.7%, P less than 0.02). We conclude that while a prominent increase in diastolic [Ca2+]i occurs in rapidly paced ventricular myocytes exposed to either inhibitors of glycolysis or oxidative phosphorylation, the effects of this increase in [Ca2+]i on diastolic distensibility may be influenced by intracellular accumulation of metabolites that decrease the sensitivity of myofilament to [Ca2+]i. 
Basal temporal language area. Language interference was elicited by electrical stimulation of the dominant basal temporal region in 8 out of 22 cases and in none of 7 cases with subdural electrodes implanted over the nondominant temporal lobe. Language interference was elicited by stimulation of electrodes placed over the fusiform gyrus 3-7 cm from the tip of the temporal lobe. Electrical stimulation of the basal temporal language area produced a global receptive and expressive aphasia with speech arrest at high stimulus intensities. Other higher cortical function, for example copying complex designs or memory of nonverbal information was intact, in spite of the total inability to process verbal information. At lower stimulus intensities partial aphasias with a predominant receptive component occurred. Surgical resection of the basal temporal language area produces no lasting language deficit. 
Vaginal cuff closure at abdominal hysterectomy: comparing sutures with absorbable staples. To compare two methods of vaginal cuff closure during abdominal hysterectomy, 60 patients were randomized to one of two cuff-closure methods. The vaginal cuff was closed with three interrupted 0-Dexon sutures in 30 and with absorbable staples in 30. Both groups were similar with respect to age, gravidity, parity, preoperative indication, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. The operative technique and quantity of irrigation used was standardized. Operative blood loss was calculated by the weight method and an unactivated, medium flat Jackson-Pratt drain was left in place for collecting postoperative cuff cultures at 24 and 48 hours. The mean operative times in the suture group (97.4 minutes) and staple group (93.4 minutes) were not significantly different (P greater than .05). Cuff-closure time was more rapid (P = .0001) in the staple group (5.8 minutes) than in the suture group (9.3 minutes). Intraoperative cultures were positive in eight of 30 suture patients (26.7%) and eight of 30 staple patients (26.7%). Postoperative cultures at either 24 or 48 hours were positive in four women (13.3%) in the suture group and six (20%) in the staple group. Febrile morbidity occurred in six (20%) in each group. Three staple and two suture subjects developed a vaginal cuff abscess or hematoma, one of whom was readmitted to the hospital for intravenous antibiotics and draining of the vaginal cuff abscess. The presence of a positive vaginal cuff culture did not predict clinical outcome. Based on these observations and the increased cost of the stapling device, we conclude that there is no significant clinical advantage of surgical staples over traditional sutures for vaginal cuff closure at abdominal hysterectomy. 
Mechanism of cytolytic T lymphocyte killing of a low class I-expressing tumor. Many tumors have been shown to express minimal levels of class I MHC Ag, which makes them more resistant to recognition and lysis by cytolytic T lymphocytes. Line 1, a BALB/c spontaneous lung carcinoma, normally expresses very low levels of class I Ag, but expression can be increased 50-fold by treatment with agents such as DMSO or IFN-gamma. Because class I Ag serve as restricting elements for cytolytic T cell recognition of tumor Ag, we wished to determine if cytotoxic T lymphocytes could play a role in the immune response to this type of class I low, but inducible, tumor. After immunization in vivo and restimulation of splenic cells in vitro we were able to generate T cell clones that lysed line 1 cells induced to express high levels of class I, but did not lyse uninduced, low class I expressing line 1 cells in short term (6-h) 51Cr release assays. Paradoxically, incubation of the T cells with uninduced class I low line 1 cells for a few days resulted in complete destruction of the tumor cells. We demonstrate that the T cells, stimulated by the tumor cells, produce IFN-gamma, which in turn induces class I expression on the line 1 cells making them susceptible to lysis by the T cell clone. This suggests that a positive feedback reaction can occur in generating a response to this and perhaps other inducible tumor cell lines. 
Inguinal herniorrhaphy. Reduced morbidity by service standardization. To ascertain if service specialization and procedure standardization would improve the complication rate of inguinal herniorrhaphy, the results of all inguinal herniorrhaphies performed during a 3-year period by board-certified general surgeons who also performed a variety of other procedures common to the field of general surgery, assisted by general surgical residents (group B, 390 patients), were compared in the same institution with the results of inguinal herniorrhaphy when performed during 3 years under protocol by a Hernia Service directed by a senior faculty member assisted by junior surgical residents (group C, 442 patients). Group B patients had essentially no follow-up until they reappeared for care at the Hernia Service, whereas patients in group C achieved an 82% 7-year follow-up. The infection and recurrence rates of group C patients (0.45% and 0.9%, respectively) were significantly better than those of group B patients (5.9% and 4.6%, respectively). These results suggest that in our institution, the concentration of patients with hernias in a hernia service, manned by a specialized surgeon, produced better short- and long-term results than those obtained by general surgeons not dedicated to the field of hernia repair. Further studies will be necessary to confirm these findings. 
Haemodynamic effects and outcome analysis of hypotensive extradural anaesthesia in controlled hypertensive patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty. We have examined the safety of induced hypotension produced by extradural anaesthesia in patients with medically controlled hypertension. The haemodynamic response to induced hypotension was assessed in 38 non-hypertensive and 31 controlled hypertensive patients. All received extradural anaesthesia to T4 or above which decreased mean arterial pressure to 52 mm Hg and 55 mm Hg in normotensive and hypertensive patients, respectively. Cardiac output (thermodilution) was maintained by low dose i.v. infusions of adrenaline (1-5 micrograms min-1). No differences in the haemodynamic response to induced hypotension were observed in hypertensive patients. Data were collected also from 987 consecutive patients (353 hypertensive and 634 non-hypertensive) undergoing total hip replacement. Patients with hypertension were significantly older (68 vs 60 yr; P less than 0.001) and had greater ASA ratings (P less than 0.001). The smallest recorded systolic pressures were reduced more in patients with hypertension (57% vs 52%, respectively; P less than 0.001). The mean duration of maintained intraoperative hypotension (100 and 98 min) and estimated intraoperative blood loss (278 vs 281 ml) were similar in each group. After operation, two patients developed myocardial infarctions. None developed acute renal failure or stroke. There were three deaths; one of a patient who had hypertension. This suggests that induced hypotension with extradural anaesthesia is a safe technique for patients with medically controlled hypertension undergoing total hip arthroplasty. 
Electrophysiological findings in localized hypertrophic mononeuropathy. Localized hypertrophic mononeuropathy (LHM) is a rare foccal neuropathy associated with perineurial cell proliferation due to an undefined stimulus. We report a case of LHM involving the proximal ulnar nerve in a 13-year-old boy. Serial clinical and electrophysiological observations were done, including intraoperative recordings directly from the nerve on two occasions. The evolution of abnormalities, as documented by electrophysiological and immunohistochemical studies, is compatible with a process of progressive thinning of myelin sheaths, culminating in axonal degeneration in later stages. Intraoperative recording of nerve action potentials was used to guide surgical management of the lesion. Ultimately, there was a good clinical and electrophysiological response to resection of the lesion and sural nerve fascicular grafting. 
Severe sepsis following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. A patient with life-threatening sepsis following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) is described. The urosepsis was complicated by meningitis and diffuse metastatic endophthalmitis necessitating enucleation of the right eye. Retinal detachment occurred in the left eye following focal endophthalmitis and the operation yielded a poor functional result. The patient was discharged from the hospital 3 months after the ESWL therapy, free of urinary stones. The etiology, treatment and prophylaxis of this serious problem are discussed. 
A genetic study of idiopathic focal dystonias. A genetic study of idiopathic focal dystonias was undertaken by examining 153 first-degree relatives of 40 index patients with torticollis (14 patients), other focal cranial dystonias (16 patients), and writer's cramp (10 patients). Nine relatives with dystonia were identified in 6 families; 8 of these had symptoms such as clumsiness or tremor, but none were aware of any dystonia. A further 4 relatives, now decreased, were affected by history. Overall, 25% of index patients had relatives with dystonia. The results of segregation analysis suggested the presence of an autosomal dominant gene or genes with reduced penetrance as a common cause for focal dystonia. Segregation ratios were not significantly different from those ratios observed in generalized or segmental dystonia in the United Kingdom, and it is possible that a single autosomal dominant gene mutation is responsible for inherited dystonia in the majority of patients irrespective of distribution or severity. 
Aberrant MT2 positivity distinguishes follicular lymphoma from reactive follicular hyperplasia in B5- and formalin-fixed paraffin sections. Often, it is difficult to distinguish follicular lymphoma from reactive follicular hyperplasia histologically. Immunotypic evidence of monoclonality cannot be demonstrated routinely or reliably in routine paraffin-embedded sections. To determine whether a panel of monoclonal antibodies reactive with lymphoid cells in paraffin-embedded sections might be useful in distinguishing these confusing proliferations, the authors examined 45 follicular lymphomas and 30 follicular hyperplasia with the following antibodies; L26, B2, MT1, MT2, and UCHL-I. All sections were routine paraffin preparations from formalin- or B5-fixed tissue and were immunostained with the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique. Ninety-two percent of the B5-fixed and 77% of the formalin-fixed lymphomas were MT2 positive. None of the reactive hyperplasias stained positively, and none of the other antibodies demonstrated consistent differences between these benign and malignant proliferations. MT2 marks interfollicular T cells and mantle-zone B cells in normal lymph nodes but does not mark normal germinal centers; this staining pattern is retained in reactive hyperplasia. However, paradoxically, in most follicular lymphomas the neoplastic germinal centers show aberrant MT2 positively. The authors conclude that MT2 may be useful in distinguishing follicular lymphoma from follicular hyperplasia in paraffin sections. 
Intracranial, intraaxial, space-occupying lesions in patients with intractable partial seizures: an anatomoclinical, neuropsychological, and surgical correlation. Fifty of approximately 250 patients evaluated for intractable partial seizures were shown to have a space-occupying lesion detected with radiographs and/or neuroimaging. Twenty-eight males and 22 females had a mean age at seizure onset of 13 years and a mean duration of seizures of 11 years. All patients had closed-circuit television with EEG monitoring and complete neurologic and neuropsychological assessment. Findings were correlated with lesion location and surgical data. Twenty-seven lesions (54%) were located in the temporal lobe. Thirty-five lesions (70%) were neoplastic. All patients with temporal lobe lesions had complex partial seizures, as did 74% of patients with extratemporal lesions. A good correlation between clinical seizure characteristics and lesion localization was found with the temporal, occipital, and frontal lesions but not with the parietal lesions. Sixty-six percent of patients had focal interictal EEG findings. Lateralization corresponded to the side of the lesion in 64% and was localized to the region of the lesion in 30%. Lateralized ictal EEGs occurred in 58% of patients, corresponding with the side of the lesion in all but one patient. Abnormal findings on neuropsychological testing were congruent with lesion lateralization in 56% of patients and were localized to the region in 26%. Thirty-nine of 47 patients who underwent a subtotal lobectomy to include the lesion are seizure-free after greater than or equal to 1 year of follow-up, and five others are markedly improved. 
Consequences of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for Crohn's colitis. Patients with Crohn's colitis are generally not considered candidates for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) procedure. We reviewed 362 consecutive patients undergoing IPAA and analyzed the outcome of this procedure on 25 patients with a preoperative diagnosis of mucosal ulcerative colitis who were subsequently proven to have Crohn's disease. The mean follow-up was 38.1 months. Sixteen patients have a functioning pouch, seven have required pouch excision, one is diverted, and one has died. Only one of nine patients in whom there was a preoperative clinical feature suggestive of Crohn's disease has a functioning pouch, with complications uniformly occurring within months of ileostomy closure. In contrast, 15 of 16 patients without preoperative features of Crohn's disease have maintained their pouch, generally with good results. These data suggest that patients in whom there is clinical and pathologic evidence of Crohn's disease do very poorly without meaningful symptom-free intervals. However, patients without any clinical features of Crohn's disease, despite a histopathologic diagnosis of Crohn's colitis, have had a good outcome with IPAA thus far. 
Humoral immunodeficiency in T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. An immunologic assessment. The humoral antibody immunodeficiency in two patients with T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL) appeared to be the result of immunoregulatory abnormalities in the leukemic T-cell populations. Both patients had CD4+ CD45R+ "virgin" or suppressor-inducer T-CLL, but Patient 1 had hypogammaglobulinemia and Patient 2, immunoglobulin (Ig) M hypergammaglobulinemia. Although, CD25+ interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptors were present on leukemic T-cells of both patient, OKT9+ (CD71) transferrin receptors and OKT10 (CD38) activation antigens were found only on Patient 2's cells. Highly elevated amounts of IL-2 was secreted from phytohemagglutinin-stimulated and concanavalin A-stimulated T-cells in both patients. In Patient 1 with hypogammaglobulinemia, immune defects involve T-cells, first an intense suppressor activity on B-cell-induced IgM and IgG synthesis and, second, deficient production of B-cell growth factor (BCGF) and B-cell differentiation factor (BCDF). In Patient 2, highly elevated BCGF and IgM-specific BCDF was secreted by T-cells, a mechanism leading to IgM hypergammaglobulinemia in this patient. These studies stress the importance of BCGF and BCDF activity of leukemic T-cells in humoral antibody immunodeficiency disorders in T-CLL cases. 
Prospective study of the complications of endoscopic laryngeal surgery. Patients undergoing 204 endoscopic laryngeal operations were studied prospectively to determine the incidence of complications. Twelve patients were considered to be at high risk of postoperative airway obstruction. Two of these patients had an elective tracheostomy. One required temporary reintubation in the recovery room. No case of respiratory obstruction occurred in a patient not considered to be in the high risk group. Mucosal haemorrhage or oedema was seen on postoperative indirect laryngoscopy in 31 per cent of patients. The commonest abnormality found was mucosal haemorrhage in the oropharynx. 
Anterior innominate osteotomies for failure or late closure of bladder exstrophy. The bony pelvis was analyzed in 12 patients undergoing a further operation after initial bladder closure. Of the patients 5 had undergone a prior posterior osteotomy. All patients had wide diastasis of the pubis (average 5.5 cm.). In 9 of these patients late closure or reclosure of a failed initial bladder repair was done and 3 underwent a repeat bladder neck reconstruction. In all patients a new procedure, anterior iliac osteotomy with internal or external fixation, was performed. This procedure provides increased mobility of the pubis and increased correction. It avoids turning of the patient while under anesthesia for repeat preparation and in most cases postoperative traction is not needed. There were no instances of dehiscence, nonunion or infection. Three cases of transient femoral palsy were noted. All patients had a normal gait 4 months postoperatively. The mobility obtained after anterior osteotomy allows for excellent approximation. In view of evidence that approximation of the pubis improves closure and eventual continence results, we believe that osteotomies, even when repeated, are useful in revision surgery if there is bony diastasis. 
Chronic morphine therapy for cancer pain: plasma and cerebrospinal fluid morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide concentrations. Morphine-6-glucuronide (M-6-G) is an active metabolite that may contribute to the clinical effects produced by systemic administration of morphine. To help clarify the extent to which M-6-G may cross the blood-brain barrier and exert effects, we employed high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection to measure the concentrations of M-6-G and morphine in the plasma and either ventricular (three patients) or lumbar (eight patients) CSF of cancer patients receiving chronic morphine therapy. The mean ratio of morphine in ventricular CSF:morphine in plasma was 0.71; the same ratio for M-6-G was only 0.077. The average molar ratio of M-6-G: morphine in ventricular CSF was 0.207, and the average molar ratio in plasma was 1.89. Although sampling problems render the lumbar CSF results less reliable, they were very similar. Thus, plasma contained approximately twice as much M-6-G as morphine, whereas CSF contained only one-fifth to one-third as much. These data confirm that M-6-G in plasma is distributed into CSF, but to a far lesser extent than morphine. They help explain animal data demonstrating much higher potency of M-6-G on administration into CSF than systemic administration and indicate that the degree to which M-6-G contributes to morphine effects in humans remains an unresolved question. 
Identification and mapping to chromosome 1 of a susceptibility locus for periinsulitis in non-obese diabetic mice. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is a polygenic disease caused by autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the islets of Langerhans. Its onset is preceded by a long and variable period in which lymphoid cells infiltrate the pancreas but first remain outside the islets (peri-insulitis) before invading them (insulitis). Among susceptibility loci, only the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) has been clearly assigned. Genetic study of the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse model for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has revealed genetic linkage of insulitis and of early onset diabetes with two non-MHC loci mapping to chromosome 3 and 11 respectively. Here we report a close association of periinsulitis with a third non-MHC locus mapping to chromosome 1. Successive stages in the progression of diabetic disease thus appear to be controlled by distinct genes or sets of genes. 
Site-dependent postmortem changes in blood cocaine concentrations. When a forensic toxicologist interprets postmortem blood cocaine findings he usually must make assumptions regarding perimortem drug concentrations. In-vitro studies have shown that cocaine rapidly hydrolyzes in unpreserved blood, particularly at elevated temperatures. However, other studies have demonstrated site-dependent postmortem release of some drugs from tissue stores accompanied by increases in drug concentrations in the blood. This study was undertaken to investigate whether blood cocaine concentrations change in the body during the postmortem interval and, if so, to measure the direction and magnitude of the changes. In medical examiner cases in which scene investigation suggested that the decreased was a cocaine user, blood samples were collected as soon after death as possible. At autopsy, a second set of samples was collected. Analysis of paired samples by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) revealed dramatic differences in the cocaine concentration. The magnitude and direction of the change appears to be site dependent. Usually, but not invariably, cocaine concentration in subclavian vein blood decreases while that in heart, aorta, and femoral vein blood increases during the interval between death and autopsy. The findings emphasize the danger inherent in attempting to estimate the concentration of cocaine in blood at the time of death from postmortem data. 
Changes in the central ANF-system of renovascular hypertensive rats. The central atrial natriuretic peptides (ANF)-system was investigated in volume-dependent, one-kidney, one-clip (1K1C) and renin-dependent two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) renovascular hypertensive rats by radioimmunological measurement of ANF concentration in 18 selected brain areas. Significant changes were found in nine brain areas of 1K1C and in eight brain areas of 2K1C hypertensive rats. Except undirectional changes in the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis and the supraoptic nucleus, ANF concentration was changed in the opposite direction in all other brain areas, with an activation of the central ANF system in 1K1C and an inhibition in 2K1C hypertension. The localization of the alterations (circumventricular organs, anteroventral third ventricle region, hypothalamo hypophyseal system, brain stem) implies major differences in the central regulation of blood pressure and electrolyte and fluid homeostasis between these two models. The activation of the central ANF system in 1K1C hypertension may be a compensatory mechanism to prevent further increments in blood pressure and plasma volume. In contrast, the depression of the central ANF system in 2K1C hypertension may promote the elevation of the blood pressure. 
Cystic adrenal masses in the neonate associated with hemihypertrophy and the relation to the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. We report 2 cases of unilateral, multilocular, cystic adrenal masses in neonates. Both patients demonstrated somatic hemihypertrophy, which is considered to have the same implications as the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome in terms of tumor risk. Pathological examination showed multiple, adrenal cysts without evidence of tumor or routine adrenal hemorrhage. This finding appears to represent a previously unreported association between the spectrum of hemihypertrophy/Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and benign cystic adrenal disease. 
Combined thoracic aortic dissection and abdominal aortic fusiform aneurysm. Certain clinical and autopsy findings are described in 13 patients who had both aortic dissection (AD) and fusiform abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). All 13 patients had severe and extensive aortic atherosclerosis. The AAA was diagnosed clinically in 9 patients, and 5 had the AAA resected. The AD was diagnosed clinically in 5 patients, and 2 underwent attempted operative repair. Two patients who had the AAA resected because of suspected rupture were found later to have ruptured a more proximal AD. Thus, AD occurs occasionally in patients who have AAA. In older persons with suspected rupture of an AAA, a more proximal rupture of an AD should be ruled out. When both AAA and AD are present in the same patient, the AD is more likely the cause of cardiovascular collapse than is rupture of the AAA. 
Ureteral pseudodiverticula: frequent association with uroepithelial malignancy. Ureteral pseudodiverticula are tiny outpouchings usually seen as incidental findings on retrograde urography during routine work-up for common urinary tract disorders. We report 37 patients with ureteral pseudodiverticula, of whom 17 (46%) had associated uroepithelial malignancy. Ureteral pseudodiverticula were diagnosed in all patients on excretory or retrograde urography as an incidental finding during evaluation for a variety of urologic symptoms and signs. All patients were assessed with urinalysis, urine culture, cystoscopy, and when indicated, ureteroscopy. Diagnosis of transitional cell carcinoma was made by surgery or endoscopic biopsy in 16 patients and squamous cell carcinoma in one. In nine patients with radiographs showing ureteral pseudodiverticula and a urinary tract filling defect (usually in the bladder), 78% of the cases were proved malignant. In six patients with ureteral pseudodiverticula and a stricture in the ureter or renal collecting system, 67% of the cases were proved malignant. Of the patients with tumor, 53% had a single ureteral pseudodiverticulum. In two cases, the pseudodiverticula antedated the diagnosis of malignancy by 2 and 4 years, respectively. Our experience suggests that the association between ureteral pseudodiverticula and uroepithelial malignancy may be more common than previously assumed, approaching 50%. Even a single ureteral pseudodiverticulum should be regarded as a serious marker for potential malignancy, antedating cancer by 2-10 years, and such patients should be closely followed up. The coexistence of ureteral pseudodiverticula and a stricture or filling defect in the urinary tract is highly suggestive that a tumor is present. 
Pregnancy outcome in an active-duty population. The number of women in the military has grown since the initiation of the all-volunteer force. Pregnancy is no longer a justification for discharge from active service. Previously published reports have shown that active military service is associated with poor pregnancy outcomes. We compared a group of active-duty pregnant women (N = 331) matched for age and gravidity with a control group of dependent wives of active-duty personnel (N = 1218). Study variables examined were the incidences of cesarean and operative vaginal delivery, Apgar scores of less than 7 at 5 minutes, preterm complications (preterm labor and premature rupture of membranes) requiring transfer to a tertiary care center, pregnancy-induced hypertensive syndromes, intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) (infant weight less than 2500 g), and pregnancy-related complications. In the active-duty group, the rates of primary cesarean (P less than .001), transfer for preterm complications (P less than .0001), pregnancy-induced hypertensive syndromes (P less than .01), and IUGR (P less than .05) were greater than in the control group. Active-duty servicewomen, despite defined limitations of work and ready access to health care, continue to represent a high-risk population. 
Variability of body weight and health outcomes in the Framingham population BACKGROUND. Fluctuation in body weight is a common phenomenon, due in part to the high prevalence of dieting. In this study we examined the associations between variability in body weight and health end points in subjects participating in the Framingham Heart Study, which involves follow-up examinations every two years after entry. METHODS. The degree of variability of body weight was expressed as the coefficient of variation of each subject's measured body-mass-index values at the first eight biennial examinations during the study and on their recalled weight at 25 years of age. Using the 32-year follow-up data, we analyzed total mortality, mortality from coronary heart disease, and morbidity due to coronary heart disease and cancer in relation to intraindividual variation in body weight, including only end points that occurred after the 10th biennial examination. We used age-adjusted proportional-hazards regression for the data analysis. RESULTS. Subjects with highly variable body weights had increased total mortality (P = 0.005 for men, P = 0.01 for women), mortality from coronary heart disease (P = 0.009 for men, P = 0.009 for women), and morbidity due to coronary heart disease (P = 0.0009 for men, P = 0.006 for women). Using a multivariate analysis that also controlled for obesity, trends in weight over time, and five indicators of cardiovascular risk, we found that the positive associations between fluctuations in body weight and end points related to mortality and coronary heart disease could not be attributed to these potential confounding factors. The relative risks of these end points in subjects whose weight varied substantially, as compared with those whose weight was relatively stable, ranged from 1.27 to 1.93. CONCLUSIONS. Fluctuations in body weight may have negative health consequences, independent of obesity and the trend of body weight over time. 
Effects of rapid volume expansion on the right filling pressures after prosthetic valve surgery. The effects of rapid intravascular volume expansion were studied in 12 patients, 4 to 14 years after single prosthetic heart valve replacement. The data observed showed a statistically significant mean difference before and after volume expansion of right atrial mean pressure and right ventricular end diastolic and pulmonary capillary pressures. However, right atrial and pulmonary capillary pressures equilibration was not detected. The right atrial pressure form showed abnormal variations during inspiration. Dip and plateau right ventricular diastolic pressure configuration was recorded in 6 patients after expansion, was absent in 2 and questionable in 4. A deep Y descent with an M-shaped right atrial pressure form was recorded in all 12 patients. The explanation for these phenomena is unclear. Thus, in the absence of pressure equilibration and clinical evidence of constriction, the abnormalities recorded during rapid volume expansion should be cautiously interpreted. 
Mycosis fungoides metastatic to the orbit. We report a case of mycosis fungoides metastatic to the anterior orbit in an 83-year-old woman. The patient had a history of several years' duration of well-controlled primary mycosis fungoides with localized dermatologic T-cell lymphomas, mainly on the lower extremities. She developed gradual proptosis, hyperophthalmos, and vertical diplopia. Computed tomography demonstrated a solid, extraconal mass in the right lower anterior orbit. Biopsy revealed a gristly, yellowish, infiltrating mass at the level of the inferior orbital septum. Pathologic examination revealed anaplastic T lymphocytes with multiloculated, cerebriform nuclei that matched those of the primary mycosis fungoides skin tumors. Mycosis fungoides rarely spreads to the ocular and periocular structures, and this case was unique in that it presented as a pure orbital lesion with sparing of the overlying lids and adnexal structures. 
Left main coronary artery and femoral artery vasospasm associated with cocaine use. A woman had diffuse vascular spasm related to cocaine use. She presented with evidence of an acute anterior myocardial infarction but had no rise in creatinine phosphokinase levels. Cardiac catheterization showed 90 percent proximal left main coronary artery narrowing. The catheterization was complicated by right femoral artery spasm. A repeat catheterization after treatment with nitroglycerin and diltiazem showed 30 percent proximal left main coronary artery narrowing. This catheterization was complicated by left femoral artery spasm. An exercise treadmill test was negative for ischemia. 
Adrenal cortical carcinoma: flow cytometric study of 22 cases, an ECOG study. Flow cytometric studies of archival material from 22 adrenal carcinomas demonstrated aneuploidy in 21 of 22 cases. Heterogeneity of nuclear DNA was found in 14 of the 22 cases. Eight of these showed distinct aneuploid and diploid populations, and 6 showed multiple aneuploid cell lines. The heterogeneity was detected because numerous paraffin-embedded samples of each tumor could be examined. No correlation was found between either aneuploidy or heterogeneous DNA content and patient survival, response to therapy, or hormone secretion. 
Tissue plasminogen activator for the treatment of thromboembolism in infants and children. We report our experience with the use of tissue plasminogen activator to treat 12 infants and children with various thromboembolic states after conventional thrombolytic agents had failed. The dosage range was between 0.1 to 0.5 mg/kg per hour. Complete clot dissolution occurred in seven cases after 2 hours to 3 days of therapy. Partial clot dissolution and clinical improvement were noted in another four patients. Bleeding complications were noted in 6 of the 12 patients and included bruising, oozing from various venipuncture sites, and bleeding; these complications were controlled by clinically available means. In all cases with bleeding the dose rate was in the higher range (0.46 to 0.50 mg/kg per hour). In one patient, restlessness, agitation, and screaming were noted during administration of tissue plasminogen activator and when it was reinstituted. We conclude that tissue plasminogen activator is effective in inducing clot lysis in children. Because the effective dose appears to overlap with those causing bleeding, we recommend that a dose of 0.1 mg/kg per hour be started and increased gradually if clot dissolution does not occur, with close monitoring for bleeding. 
Radiology of continent urinary diversion. The continent urinary diversions described in this article represent only a small number of the techniques that have been reported in the urologic literature. An attempt has been made to discuss diversions that are currently in common use or have been recently described and hold potential for becoming more widely accepted. The radiologist with a basic understanding of continent urinary diversions plays an important role in evaluating patients who have had these procedures. Complications can be detected and evaluated and occasionally treated with interventional techniques. As continent urinary diversions become more frequently performed, it is important that radiologists become aware of their construction techniques, radiographic appearance, function, and potential complications. 
A "twilight period" of coronary perfusion: the risk of intraoperative infarction in surgery for main left coronary obstruction. This study investigates the significance of an intraoperative period of low coronary perfusion pressure which may lead to ischemia, infarction, or both, in patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery for tight left main obstruction. "Twilight Period" (TP) was defined as the time interval from initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass to implementation of cold cardioplegia. Fifty-four patients with main left coronary obstruction (greater than 50%) were divided in three groups: Group I (20), TP less than 5 minutes; Group II (15), TP = 5-15 minutes; and Group III (19), TP greater than 15 minutes. Monitoring parameters included: systemic perfusion pressure during TP, perfusion flows, length of TP, time of ischemia, myocardial temperatures during ischemia, postoperative CK-MB level, EKG-detectable infarction, and postoperative therapeutic support requirements. Results: Intraoperative myocardial infarction by EKG was 0% in Group I, 7% in Group II, and 26.3% in Group III; mortality was 0%, 0%, and 15.7%, respectively. CK-MB values were 18 +/- 3.2 IU, Group I; 18.3 +/- 2.5 IU, Group II; and 49.4 +/- 10.3 IU, Group III. Group I vs. III: P 0.01. Levels of postoperative support: Level A, less than 12 hours; Level B, 12-36 hours; and Level C, greater than 36 hours. Intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) was considered Level C. In Group I, 75% (15/20) fell in Level A; 15% (3/20) in Level B and 10% (2/20) in Level C. In Group II, 60% (9/15) fell in Level A; 26.7% (4/15) in Level B; and 13% (2/15) in Level C. In Group III, 36.8% (7/19) fell in Level A; 15.8% (3/19) in Level B; and 47.4% (9/19) in Level C. 
The gastropulmonary route of infection--fact or fiction? Published studies relating to whether medicinal stress-bleeding prophylaxis leading to an increase of gastric pH favors the development of bronchopulmonary infections are reviewed. Results from studies in healthy humans, patients with ulcer disease, and patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) clearly show that the risk of gastric bacterial colonization significantly increases relative to increasing gastric pH. Moreover, a drug-induced increase of gastric pH leads directly to gastric bacterial colonization also in patients in the ICU, above all with bacteria typical of the gastrointestinal tract. Comparing the different bacterial spectra of the oropharynx, stomach, and upper small intestine, it becomes clear that the stomach is a reservoir of bacteria independent of the oropharynx and also subject to retrograde colonization due to the duodenogastric reflux. Both by means of microbiological and in particular direct detection procedures, it can be demonstrated that in at least 30-40% of intubated patients a gastropulmonary route of colonization occurs. In patient groups without a medication-induced increase of gastric pH the number of bacteria detected in the tracheal secretion is about 33% less than in the case of conventional stress-bleeding prophylaxis. These findings make it understandable that a highly significant increase in the pneumonia rate is seen in patients receiving pH-increasing stress-bleeding prophylaxis versus control groups without therapy essentially influencing gastric pH. A risk score was developed that allows an easy description of those patients who are at an increased risk of pulmonary infections due to the gastropulmonary route of colonization. 
Acute idiopathic blind spot enlargement. A spectrum of disease. The authors present a report on their experience with 10 patients with acute idiopathic blind spot enlargement. All had enlarged steep-margined blind spots without accompanying changes in optic disc appearance, significantly diminished visual acuity or color vision. Fluorescein angiography was obtained in eight patients. Five patients had retinal appearance that was either normal or could not be attributed to a known disease entity. Three patients had the multiple evanescent white dot syndrome, one had acute macular neuroretinopathy, and at least one had presumed ocular histoplasmosis. It has been proposed that acute idiopathic blind spot enlargement is a subset of multiple evanescent white dot syndrome. The authors' findings suggest that multiple evanescent white dot syndrome and other retinal diseases, some not yet identified, are subsets of acute idiopathic blind spot enlargement. 
Avascular necrosis of bone in children undergoing allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Avascular necrosis of bone (AVNB) is reported in two children after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Preparation therapy for transplantation included cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation. Corticosteroids, cyclosporine A, and methotrexate were used for graft-versus-host-disease prophylaxis. The possible role of combination therapy in development of AVNB is discussed, but a direct relationship with single agents was not found. However, an early diagnosis is important to institute conservative treatment and prevent irreversible damage to affected joints. Magnetic resonance imaging was found to be more sensitive than plain radiography in early detection of AVNB. 
Origin of so-called mesothelioma of the atrioventricular node. An immunohistochemical study. To determine the origin of a mesothelioma of the atrioventricular node, immunohistochemical studies that used various antibodies, including the antibody against mesothelial cells, were performed on a mesothelioma of the atrioventricular node in a case. The lining cells of the tubules that composed the tumor were negative when tested with anti-mesothelial cell antibodies. Carcinoembryonic antigen was negative, but the secretory component was positive. Serotonin and calcitonin were positive in a few cells. We concluded that a mesothelial origin was unlikely, and it was suggested that the tumor was of an entodermal origin. 
Role of thromboxane and serotonin as mediators in the development of spontaneous alterations in coronary blood flow and neointimal proliferation in canine models with chronic coronary artery stenoses and endothelial injury. Platelet-mediated obstruction of stenotic and endothelium-injured coronary arteries may be important in the abrupt progression from chronic stable to unstable coronary heart disease syndromes in patients. Transcardiac accumulation of thromboxane A2 and serotonin has been demonstrated in patients as chronic stable angina is converted to unstable angina. In this study in anesthetized open chest dogs with coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury, thromboxane A2 and serotonin were shown to be important mediators of intermittent coronary obstruction caused by platelet aggregation and dynamic vasoconstriction. Furthermore, thromboxane A2 synthesis inhibitors and receptor antagonists and serotonin receptor antagonists, singly and together, provided substantial protection against repetitive platelet aggregation and dislodgment in canine models with coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury even when systemic catecholamine concentrations were markedly elevated. These same observations apply in chronically instrumented, awake, unsedated dogs with coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury in which recurrent platelet attachment and dislodgment cause cyclic flow alterations that may be prevented by thromboxane A2 synthesis inhibitors and receptor antagonists and serotonin receptor antagonists. Chronically instrumented dogs with coronary stenosis and endothelial injury in which recurrent platelet attachment and dislodgment occurred also developed neointimal proliferation of varying severity within 10 days to 3 weeks; the morphologic appearance of the neointimal proliferation was identical to that found in patients who develop restenosis after coronary angioplasty. 
Neurologic aspects of cobalamin deficiency. We reviewed 153 episodes of cobalamin deficiency involving the nervous system that occurred in 143 patients seen over a recent 17-year period at 2 New York City hospitals. Pernicious anemia was the most common underlying cause of the deficiency. Neurologic complaints, most commonly paresthesias or ataxia, were the first symptoms of Cbl deficiency in most episodes. The median duration of symptoms before diagnosis and treatment with vitamin B12 was 4 months, although long delays in diagnosis occurred in some patients. Diminished vibratory sensation and proprioception in the lower extremities were the most common objective findings. A wide variety of neurologic symptoms and signs were encountered, however, including ataxia, loss of cutaneous sensation, muscle weakness, diminished or hyperactive reflexes, spasticity, urinary or fecal incontinence, orthostatic hypotension, loss of vision, dementia, psychoses, and disturbances of mood. Multiple neurologic syndromes were often seen in a single patient. In 42 (27.4%) of the 153 episodes, the hematocrit was normal, and in 31 (23.0%), the mean corpuscular volume was normal. Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were unusual even in anemic patients. In nonanemic patients in whom diagnosis was delayed, neurologic progression frequently occurred although the hematocrit remained normal. In 27 episodes, the serum cobalamin concentration was only moderately decreased (in the range of 100-200 pg/ml) and in 2 the serum level was normal. Neurologic impairment, as assessed by a quantitative severity score, was judged to be mild in 99 episodes, moderate in 39 and severe in 15. Severity of neurologic dysfunction before treatment was clearly related to the duration of symptoms prior to diagnosis. In addition, the hematocrit correlated significantly with severity, independent of the longer duration of symptoms in nonanemic patients. Four patients experienced transient neurologic exacerbations soon after beginning treatment with cyanocobalamin, with subsequent recovery. Followup evaluation was adequate to assess the neurologic response to vitamin B12 therapy in 121 episodes. All patients responded, and in 57 (47.1%), recovery was complete, with no remaining symptoms or findings on examination. The severity score was reduced by 50% or greater after treatment in 91% of the episodes. Residual long-term moderate or severe neurologic disability was noted following only 7 (6.3%) episodes. The extent of neurologic involvement after treatment was strongly related to that before therapy as well as to the duration of symptoms. The percent improvement over baseline neurologic status after treatment was inversely related to duration of symptoms and hematocrit. Some evidence of response was always seen during the first 3 months of treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Hepatic failure and coma after liver resection is reversed by manipulation of gut contents: the role of endotoxin. Despite significant improvements in the surgical care of patients, hepatic failure after extensive liver resection continues to be associated with a high morbidity and death. We postulated that hepatic failure after liver resection was related to gut-derived endotoxemia. Rats were randomized to receive oral gavage twice daily with one of the following preparations: (1) 0.9% saline; (2) neomycin sulfate and cefazolin; (3) cholestyramine; (4) lactulose. After 7 days of gavage, animals underwent either a two-thirds partial hepatectomy or sham operation. At time 0 (preresection), 10, 20, and 30 hours after resection, aortic blood was obtained for determination of ammonia, glutamine, and endotoxin levels. In selected animals, portal vein or inferior caval blood was obtained simultaneously with the aortic sample to evaluate the glutamine and ammonia exchange across the intestine and hind limb. Germ-free rats also underwent a partial hepatectomy or sham operation, and blood was obtained for glutamine and ammonia exchange at 0 and 20 hours after resection. Hepatectomy in the saline-pretreated rats resulted in a sixfold increase in plasma glutamine, increased uptake of glutamine and release of ammonia by the gut, increased release of glutamine by the hind-limb, and a high mortality rate. Pretreatment with agents that altered gut contents reduced the endotoxemia, maintained normal glutamine and ammonia levels, and reduced the mortality rate. Germ-free rats had a similar response to that seen in treated animals. Altering the gut contents in this model reduced the level of endotoxemia, blunted the catabolic response, and enhanced survival. 
Entire ABL gene is joined with 5'-BCR in some patients with Philadelphia-positive leukemia. In four patients, the chromosome 9 breakpoint of the t(9; 22)(q34;q11) had occurred at different sites within an 8.25-kilobase (kb) region situated 5' of ABL exon 1B. Chromosome in situ hybridization and field inversion gel electrophoresis (FIGE) studies showed that ABL exons 1A and 1B were present on the Ph chromosome. Yet this large fusion gene produced an mRNA conventional for chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Splicing from BCR exon 3 to ABL exon 2 crossed more than 200 kb and deleted exons 1A and 1B. This breakpoint site may occur in about 10% of all CML patients. Three of our patients have pronounced thrombocytosis, and two had been diagnosed as having Ph-positive essential thrombocythemia. The platelet count of the other patient was not available. 
Ulcerative tracheobronchitis after lung transplantation. A new form of invasive aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis is frequently a fatal disease in the setting of immunosuppression, including organ transplant recipients. The fungus usually affects lung parenchyma and may disseminate from there. We have recently noted tracheobronchitis in six patients with heart-lung and lung transplants, three of whom had deep mucosal ulceration and histologic evidence of invasive aspergillosis. This apparently new form of invasive disease is initially limited to the anastomosis site and large airways. Ulceration, necrosis, cartilage invasion, and formation of a pseudomembrane are the pathologic features. In two patients subsequent disseminated aspergillosis occurred with a fatal outcome. In the two single-lung recipients, disease was limited to the transplanted side emphasizing the importance of abnormal local defense mechanisms in the airways of lung transplant recipients. Routine bronchoscopic examination of the airways is important in early detection of this complication. Oral therapy with the new, antifungal agent itraconazole was successful in five of the six patients, with fatal relapse in one. A classification of the various forms of saprophytic, allergic, and invasive forms of aspergillus tracheobronchitis, to include this new entity, is proposed. 
Concomitant benefit of preoperative irradiation in preventing pancreas fistula formation after pancreatoduodenectomy. Preoperative irradiation improves both the resectability and curability of carcinoma of the pancreas head area and should improve patient survival. We retrospectively investigated the value of preoperative irradiation in preventing pancreatic fistula formation. Of 76 consecutive patients who underwent pancreaticojejunostomy by mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis with a stent catheter after pancreatoduodenectomy, 22 had received preoperative irradiation. The irradiation field included the anastomotic site. In two patients, accidental dislocation of the stent catheter was the apparent cause of fistula formation, but the other 21 patients in the irradiated group developed no fistula. In contrast, nine (17%) of 53 patients in the nonirradiated group developed fistulas. In the irradiated group, preoperative selenomethionine Se 75 scintigraphy revealed a cold area corresponding to the pancreas body, which was included in the irradiation field. Thus, a putative decrease in exocrine function at the pancreatic anastomotic site could explain why fistula formation was prevented by preoperative irradiation. 
Fulminant pulmonary aspergillus infection occluding the aortic arch after high-dose antileukemic chemotherapy. After antileukemic chemotherapy a granulocytopenic patient experienced a rapidly progressive left-sided pneumonia with pleuritic pain. After 1 week, a sudden occlusion of all aortic branches was followed by death. At postmortem, a huge thrombus in the aortic arch caused by Aspergillus invasion from the left lung was found. 
Pulsed-spray thrombolysis of arterial and bypass graft occlusions. Pulsed-spray thrombolysis is accomplished through forceful injection of a spray of highly concentrated urokinase into clot by using catheters with multiple side holes. We previously reported the immediate technical efficacy of the method in eight arterial and 10 bypass graft occlusions. We now describe the clinical efficacy of the method in a second, larger series of 23 native artery occlusions and 25 bypass graft occlusions. Transluminal angioplasty was performed after thrombolysis in 21 of the arteries and 24 of the bypass grafts. Initial thrombolysis was observed in all artery occlusions and all but one bypass graft occlusion with an average time for pulsed-spray lysis of 65 +/- 28 min in native arteries and 93 +/- 38 min in bypass grafts. Recanalization with improvement in symptoms or distal pulses after thrombolysis and angioplasty was achieved in 74% of treated arterial occlusions and 92% of treated graft occlusions. Of the 15 arteries that were recanalized and did not require adjunctive surgery, seven remained patent at 3-28 months follow-up. Nine of 23 recanalized bypass grafts required early adjunctive surgery. Of the nine synthetic and five saphenous vein grafts successfully recanalized and not requiring surgical revision, the mean patency was 4.3 +/- 3.1 months and 3.0 +/- 2.2 months, respectively. Minor complications were seen in 23% of cases. The two major complications (4%) involved one groin hematoma requiring surgery and one episode of gastrointestinal hemorrhage. We conclude that combined pulsed-spray thrombolysis and angioplasty achieve rapid and consistent arterial and graft recanalization with minimal risk. The method offers a favorable alternative to standard thrombolytic therapy of arterial occlusions. In occluded synthetic and vein bypass grafts, the technique is sometimes beneficial, either alone or combined with surgical revision. 
The personality pattern of duodenal ulcer patients in relation to spontaneous ulcer healing and relapse. One hundred consecutive out-patients with duodenal ulceration from a hospital and a gastroenterological clinic were tested with the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI). This was carried out in order to investigate whether neuroticism or other personality disorders were characteristics of duodenal ulcer patients, and whether the presence of such possible personality disorders might influence the prognosis of the disease. Neuroticism occurred in 53% of the patients, but only in 5% of controls (P less than 0.0001). Overall, personality disorders were present in 69% of the patients compared with 30% of the controls (P less than 0.0001). Neuroticism was connected with a high frequency of relapse (P less than 0.05) whereas failure of spontaneous ulcer healing had no certain relation to personality disorders. Patients with non-neurotic personality disorders had more frequently suffered stressful life events before entrance to the study (P less than 0.05) and, like the neurotic patients, they had lower ego-strength to cope with such events (P less than 0.05). The results indicate that personality assessments make it possible to distinguish between subgroups of duodenal ulcer patients with different course of the disease. 
Performance of age-matched controls on a battery of visuo-spatial neglect tests. Examination of 47 independent elderly subjects, matched with a population of patients with acute stroke, found that 55% made at least one omission on a battery of neglect tests. Up to 43% made omissions on any one test. Increasing age and other evidence of cognitive impairment were associated with impaired performance on the battery. Omissions were attributed to an age-related decline in visuo-spatial function. Cut-off points are provided to distinguish between such age-related impairment and visuospatial neglect. The importance of age-matched control studies in developing tests of cognitive impairment in stroke research is highlighted. 
Effect of intervention on development of hip posture in very preterm babies. Preterm babies are physiologically hypotonic, which causes their posture to be flattened when lying in the prone position. This flattened posture may persist beyond term. In a prospective, randomised, controlled, double blind trial of postural support carried out on 45 babies born at less than 33 weeks of gestation, we showed that infants positioned with specific hip support during the period of intensive care had significantly fewer features of flattened posture at the age equivalent to term. 
IIB osteosarcoma. Current management, local control, and survival statistics--the Australian experience. Current management of osteosarcoma at the authors' institution involves intraarterial induction chemotherapy using intermittent cycles of cisplatin and doxorubicin (Adriamycin), surgical resection with limb-sparing wherever possible, and adjuvant systemic chemotherapy (high-dose methotrexate with retrieval and doxorubicin). Twenty cases treated in this way between May 1983 and May 1989 are reviewed. There were 18 Stage IIB osteosarcomas and two Stage IIB malignant fibrous histiocytomas. Chemotherapeutic effect was evaluated in the resected tumors. There was little correlation between the clinical response to the induction chemotherapy and cell necrosis present in the resected tumor mass. Wide resection margins were achieved in 17 cases, a minimal margin in two, and a contaminated margin in one. Radiotherapy was used in these three cases where resection margin was in doubt. There were two local recurrences in these three cases. Four patients have died of their disease, and there was one treatment-related death. Overall probability of survival in this group of 20 patients has been expressed by the Kaplan-Meier method as 58%. 
Thoracic traction on the trachea: mechanisms and magnitude. Both inspiratory increases and tonic thoracic traction (pull of the thorax) on the trachea [Ttx(tr)] have been shown to improve patency of the upper airway. To evaluate the origins and magnitude of Ttx(tr), we studied 15 anesthetized tracheotomized dogs. We divided the midcervical trachea and attached the thoracic stub to a strain gauge. Ttx(tr), esophageal pressure, and carinal displacement were observed during various conditions. These included unobstructed and obstructed spontaneous breathing, mechanical ventilation at various levels of positive end-expiratory pressure, and progressive hypercapnic stimulation. Observations during spontaneous breathing were performed before and after vagotomy. We found that inspiratory increases in Ttx(tr) were substantial, averaging 81 +/- 8 g force and increasing to 174 +/- 22 g force at an end-expiratory CO2 concentration of 10%. Ttx(tr) did not result simply from the pull of mediastinal and pulmonary structures transmitted through the carina. Changes in intrathoracic pressure acted independently to either draw the trachea into or push the trachea out of the thorax. Thus Ttx(tr) could be explained as the sum of mediastinal traction and force generated by changes in intrathoracic pressure. 
Mixed cryoglobulinemia associated with chronic Q-fever. A 41-year-old woman who presented with purpura, glomerulonephritis and mixed cryoglobulinemia was found subsequently to have developed chronic Q-fever. Since Q-fever is a frequent cause of culture negative endocarditis in some endemic areas, the diagnosis of Q-fever endocarditis should be considered in patients presenting with mixed cryoglobulinemia of unknown cause. 
Inhibition of cyclooxygenase metabolite production attenuates ischemia-reperfusion lung injury. We investigated if cyclooxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid were involved in ischemia-reperfusion lung injury by determining if inhibition of their production attenuated the injury. Isolated rat lungs were perfused with physiologic salt solution osmotically stabilized with Ficoll until circulating blood elements were not detected in lung effluent. Ischemia was induced by stopping ventilation and perfusion for 90 min. Lung ventilation and perfusion were then resumed. Ischemia-reperfusion resulted in the production of prostacyclin and thromboxane assessed by lung effluent and tissue measurements of their respective stable metabolites, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha thromboxane B2 (TxB2). In contrast, prostaglandin F2 alpha did not increase. Ischemia-reperfusion also caused lung injury as assessed by increased lung 125I-BSA accumulation compared with nonischemic control lungs. Addition of the cyclooxygenase inhibitors, indomethacin, or flubiprofen to the lung perfusate before and after ischemia inhibited lung injury as well as the production of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and TxB2. Addition of a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor (U 63557A) reduced lung injury as well as TxB2 formation without affecting the production of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha. The attenuation of lung injury was not explained by direct H2O2 removal by indomethacin, flubiprofen, or U 63557A because the concentrations of the inhibitors used in the isolated lung experiments did not remove exogenously added H2O2 from buffer in vitro. We conclude that cyclooxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid are involved in ischemia-reperfusion injury to isolated rat lungs. 
Hypoxemia is associated with mitochondrial DNA damage and gene induction. Implications for cardiac disease OBJECTIVE.--Oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) deficiency due to hypoxemia or other causes was hypothesized to increase oxygen radical generation, damage mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and reduce adenosine triphosphate synthesis, resulting in compensatory OXPHOS gene induction. Therefore, we investigated the levels of mtDNA damage and OXPHOS transcripts in normal and ischemic hearts, and then in other forms of heart disease. DESIGN.--DNA was extracted from the heart and the levels of the common 4977 base pair mtDNA deletion were quantitated as an index for mtDNA damage. Total RNA was extracted from hearts and analyzed for OXPHOS transcript levels. RESULTS.--In control hearts, the 4977 base pair mtDNA deletion appeared at age 40 years and reached a maximum deletion of 0.0035%. Much higher levels were found in ischemic hearts (0.02% to 0.85%), as well as in three of 10 cases with other types of heart disease (0.017% to 0.16%). The OXPHOS transcripts were increased in all diseased hearts. CONCLUSION.--Ischemic hearts have increased mtDNA damage and OXPHOS gene expression, suggesting that mtDNA damage is associated with OXPHOS deficiency. Oxidative phosphorylation defects may also play a role in some other forms of cardiac disease. 
Azygos vein laceration due to blunt trauma. The azygos vein ascends along the thoracic spine through the mediastinum and drains into the superior vena cava at the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra. Fracture-dislocation of the mid-thoracic spine, as a result of blunt thoracic trauma, can tear the azygos vein. Four such fatal cases (three motor vehicle accidents and one fall) were studied, only one of which was recognized prior to death. The vein can also be torn, in the absence of skeletal injuries, by horizontal acceleration/deceleration forces. The pathologist must consider azygos vein laceration as a possible cause of either hemothorax or hemomediastinum or both in a victim of a blunt chest trauma, if that individual had persistent hypotension during the few hours before death and no identifiable source of hemorrhage can be found postmortem in sites such as the heart, great vessels, lung, and chest wall. A fracture-dislocation of the thoracic spine may not necessarily be present. Azygos vein laceration seems to be an uncommon cause of hemothorax and hemomediastinum; however, this injury is probably more frequent than is implied by the few cases described in the medical literature. 
Cardiopulmonary arrest following an infusion of calcium 2-amino ethanol phosphate. The intravenous infusion of calcium 2-amino ethanol phosphate was coincidental with cardiopulmonary arrest in a 53-year-old woman with a history of multiple sclerosis. Resuscitation was followed by massive hemolysis, renal failure, adult respiratory distress syndrome, shock liver, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. This agent, in use by at least one practitioner in West Germany for the treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune disorders is not FDA approved for use in the United States, nor is clinical investigation underway. It is currently thought to be in use by about 200 practitioners throughout this country as treatment for multiple sclerosis. It is apparently obtained in West Germany and brought illegally into the United States. This is the first known report of an adverse drug reaction associated with the use of this product. 
Thrombolytic treatment in acute myocardial infarction: neutrophil activation, peripheral leucocyte responses, and myocardial injury. OBJECTIVE--To examine early leucocyte responses and neutrophil activation in acute myocardial infarction treated by streptokinase and to relate the findings to coronary recanalisation and indices of myocardial damage in order to provide further information about the role of neutrophils in the evolution of injury. DESIGN--Group analysis of paired blood samples, obtained before streptokinase treatment and one hour after it, and of three indirect measures of myocardial injury: left ventricular ejection fraction, QRS score, and peak creatine kinase. SETTING--The coronary care unit of a district general hospital. PATIENTS--39 patients with acute myocardial infarction who underwent paired blood sampling (before streptokinase and one hour after streptokinase) and cardiac catheterisation 5 (3-8) days later. END POINTS--Changes in peripheral white cell and neutrophil counts and plasma elastase one hour after streptokinase infusion. Comparison of these variables in patients with and without patency of the infarct related coronary artery. Correlations between these variables and indirect measures of myocardial injury. RESULTS--Neutrophil activation, as reflected by plasma elastase, increased sharply one hour after streptokinase. Total white cell and neutrophil counts also increased. Changes tended to be more pronounced in patients with patency of the infarct related artery, though the trend was not statistically significant. Neutrophil activation before streptokinase was unrelated to indirect indices of myocardial injury but only one hour after streptokinase a weak negative correlation with left ventricular ejection fraction had developed. Peripheral neutrophil responses showed a similar relation to ejection fraction and also correlated with peak creatine kinase and QRS score. CONCLUSIONS--Thrombolytic treatment in acute myocardial infarction is associated with an abrupt reactive neutrophil response which provides an early measure of injury. It is also associated with neutrophil activation, probably in response to coronary recanalisation and myocardial reperfusion. Activated neutrophils are recognised as mediators of reperfusion injury in experimental infarction and the data in the present study provide preliminary evidence of a similar pathogenic role in the clinical setting. 
Expression of androgen receptor mRNA in human hepatocellular carcinomas and hepatoma cell lines. The expression of androgen receptor messenger RNA in hepatocellular carcinomas and hepatoma cell lines was studied using Northern-blot analysis and the complementary DNA-polymerase chain reaction method. Androgen receptor messenger RNAs were detected (although in low levels) in both hepatocellular carcinoma tissues and noncancerous tissues of the liver in all eight cases we studied, except for the tumor sample of one case. None of the hepatoma cell lines studied, however, expressed detectable levels of androgen receptor messenger RNA except for the SK-HEP-1 hepatoma cell line. 
Depression and chronic fatigue in the patient with heart disease. Depression and chronic fatigue are frequently associated with heart disease. They may precede the onset of myocardial infarction, singly or together, and increase the morbidity and mortality of patients with a history of MI. Virtually all such patients have a transient depression, usually accompanied by anxiety, with onset soon after hospitalization. Although this depression is transient and usually abates spontaneously, it frequently warrants therapeutic intervention. Psychosocial and personality factors play a significant role in the recovery of a patient with a cardiac condition. The clinician must be alert for the effects of changing roles within the family and behaviors that may lead to chronic invalidism. Anxiety disorders, often combined with depression, may mimic cardiac disease and may result from it, leading to chronic fatigue and weakness. Proper diagnosis usually leads to considerable improvement. Cardiac drugs, in addition to many others, may produce depression and fatigue that may be misdiagnosed. Often, discontinuing or changing a medication will lead to marked diminution of such symptoms. Observational and listening skills are key ingredients of the "art" of medicine; they can lead to interventions that are not only therapeutic, but which improve the "quality" of life. 
Pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis. The presentation of a patient with multiple pulmonary nodules with or without cavitation and often with signs of a multisystemic vasculitis should suggest one of the pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis syndromes. The five conditions traditionally considered together in the category of pulmonary angiitis and granulomatosis differ widely in their cause and pathogenesis and are more appropriately considered as variants or relatives of other processes. The radiologic features of this group of diseases, however, are similar, and it is useful to still consider them together. Table 1 summarizes the radiologic features of these conditions. 
The prevention of the maternal manifestations of pre-eclampsia by intensive antihypertensive treatment. The purpose of the study was to determine if reduction of pregnancy hypertension to normal prevented the clinical maternal manifestations of pre-eclampsia. Thirty-six women with hypertension, but without proteinuria, were allotted at random to a test group of 17 who received intensive treatment, and a control group of 19 who were managed according to routine methods by hospital staff unconnected with the study. The development of proteinuria was chosen as an indicator of pre-eclampsia. Proteinuria developed significantly more often in the control group (in six of the 19 women) than in the test group (in one of the 17 women). 
Percutaneous iliac artery stent: angiographic long-term follow-up. The authors conducted a prospective study of 49 consecutive patients with 53 lesions in 52 iliac arteries. All were treated between October 1987 and April 1990 with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and insertion of either a self-expandable or balloon-expandable stent. Lesions included total occlusion (28%), dissection (42%), post-PTA restenosis (21%), and unsatisfactory PTA (9%). Complications included one aortic protrusion, one acute thrombosis of the stent (resolved with urokinase), and three distal embolizations (5.7%) (resolved with urokinase and aspiration). During 15 months of follow-up, two patients died (one after occlusion). Three other occlusions occurred; one of these was resolved with local thrombolysis. Hyperplasia occurred in seven cases (13.5%), and stenosis occurred at the end of the stent because of incomplete covering of the lesion in three (5.8%); a complementary procedure was performed in six of these cases. Primary patency was 85.3% at 12 months and 80.9% at 18 months; secondary patency rate was 96.1% at 12 and at 18 months. At the end of the study, excluding data for the two patients who died, 27 limbs (54%) were asymptomatic and improvement was achieved in 19 (38%); the clinical success rate was 92%. No amputations were required. 
Abdominal abscess due to Cardiobacterium hominis and Clostridium bifermentans. A case of abdominal abscess and bacteremia due to Cardiobacterium hominis and Clostridium bifermentans was successfully treated with surgical drainage and ampicillin-penicillin. This case represents the rare occurrence of C. hominis infection without apparent endocarditis. 
Testicular torsion: a surgical emergency. Testicular torsion is caused by twisting of the spermatic cord, which results in compromised testicular blood flow. The degree of ischemic injury is determined by the severity of arterial compression and the interval between the onset of symptoms and surgical intervention. Torsion usually occurs at puberty, and an anatomic defect known as "bell-clapper" deformity is usually present. Typical symptoms include acute scrotal pain with associated nausea and vomiting. Up to one-half of patients report previous similar episodes. On examination, the testis is high-riding, tender, swollen and firm. Testicular scan or Doppler ultrasound examination can be helpful in distinguishing torsion from acute epididymitis. Prompt surgical treatment is indicated to reduce the torsion, and bilateral orchiopexy is performed to prevent recurrence. Exocrine function, as determined by semen analysis, is often abnormal after unilateral torsion. 
Delayed visual loss due to trauma of the internal carotid artery. The group of six patients in this study experienced delayed visual loss following head trauma. Visual loss occurred from 1 day to 13 years after the initial injury. All patients suffered indirect trauma to the internal carotid artery resulting in formation of either an aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm or a carotid-cavernous fistula. Review of the radiologic and clinical findings was performed in six patients. The diagnosis was established by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography. All patients had follow-up clinical evaluation and imaging studies. Treatment by neurosurgical or interventional neuroradiologic procedures resulted in significant visual improvement in five patients. Different pathophysiologic mechanisms could be correlated with the delayed visual loss produced by the two types of lesions. The pathologic changes associated with the aneurysms/pseudoaneurysms included direct compression of optic nerves and/or chiasm and intracranial hematoma. A carotid-cavernous fistula caused delayed visual loss by either hematoma at the orbital apex or compression of the chiasm and/or optic nerves by saccular dilatation of the cavernous sinus. The delayed onset of decreased vision following head trauma should alert the physician to the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm/pseudoaneurysm or a carotid-cavernous fistula. Different neuro-ophthalmologic symptoms can usually be correlated with the pathologic changes demonstrated by neuroimaging procedures. 
Right-sided aortic arch presenting as refractory intraoperative and postoperative wheezing. A 29-year-old woman presented with severe refractory intraoperative wheezing and airflow limitation that resolved spontaneously. Contrast-enhanced computed tomographic (CT) scan of the thorax confirmed a right-sided aortic arch. Variable intrathoracic large airway obstruction that worsened markedly when the patient was in a supine position and slightly more following intravascular volume expansion was shown on flow-volume studies. We postulate the right-sided aortic arch caused airflow obstruction that worsened intraoperatively because of position and intravenous fluids. 
First place--Resident Clinical Science Award 1990. Suppression of lymphokine-activated killer cell cytotoxicity by a soluble factor produced by squamous tumors of the head and neck. Incubation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) in the presence of interleukin-2 results in the generation of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells that are highly cytotoxic to a variety of autologous and allogenic tumor targets. We have identified a noncytotoxic, soluble factor, produced by human squamous cell cancers of the head and neck, that profoundly inhibits the generation of LAK cytotoxicity. Inhibition of the generation of cytotoxicity was demonstrated with coculture of PBL and freshly disaggregated tumor cells in a Transwell two-chamber system. Alternatively, inhibition occurred when LAK cells were generated in the presence of tumor-conditioned supernatants alone. These effects were not observed with conditioned supernatants from autologous or allogenic lymphocytes, human fibroblasts, or the erythroleukemia cell line K562. The presence of this inhibitory factor(s) was not required during the entire period of LAK generation. Suppression of cytotoxicity, measured after 4 days of LAK generation, could also be demonstrated when the conditioned tumor supernatant was present in only the last 24 hours of incubation. Suppression is mediated by a heat-labile factor with a molecular weight of greater than 75 kd. These results suggest that LAK cytotoxicity may be significantly impaired by soluble immunoregulatory factors present within the tumor milieu of squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. Further characterization of these factors may lead to the development of more rational and effective forms of immunotherapy. 
Adenylate cyclase activity in various components of the sarcoplasmic reticulum: a cytochemical study of ventricular biopsies from diseased human hearts. Localization of adenylate cyclase (ACLase) activity was studied in biopsies of diseased human myocardium by means of electron microscopic cytochemistry. Five right and seven left ventricular biopsy specimens were obtained from patients with idiopathic dilated (3 cases) and hypertrophic (3 cases) cardiomyopathies, various acquired (3 cases) and congenital (1 case) heart diseases, and other heart diseases (2 cases). Catecholamine-stimulated ACLase activity was assessed relative to the fine structure of cardiocytes. The most intense ACLase activity was found in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), but activity was also present in the sarcolemma. The enzyme activity was present in a wide morphologic spectrum of components of the SR, including junctional SR of internal and peripheral coupling (12 cases), free SR in association with myofibrils (6 cases), and free SR in association with mitochondria (5 cases). ACLase activity in junctional SR in the human myocardium resembles the findings in hearts of other mammalian species. The enzyme activity in human myocardial SR may represent a local regulatory function of the ACLase-cyclic AMP-phosphodiestrerase system in the SR components. 
Effect of a taurine-supplemented diet on conjugated bile acids in biliary surgical patients. The effect of a taurine-supplemented diet on the level of conjugated bile acids in postoperative patients was investigated during two consecutive 5-day period. Eighteen hepatobiliary patients with choledochostomies and a specific T-tube insertion were collected and divided randomly into two groups. In group 1, an ordinary postoperative soft diet was prescribed for the first 5 postoperative days and then followed with a taurine-supplemented soft diet (40 mumol/kg per day) for 5 consecutive days. In group 2, the taurine-supplemented diet was prescribed in reverse. At the end of the two periods, on days 5 and 10, bile was collected via a T-tube with an inflatable balloon and low-pressure motor suction. Analysis of conjugated bile acids was done by high-performance liquid chromatography. The results showed that a taurine-supplemented diet increased the concentration of taurocholic acid, glycocholic acid, taurochenodeoxycholic acid, glycochenodeoxycholic acid, and total bile acid from 0.5, 1.9, 0.3, 1.4, and 4.7 mg/mL (on day 5) to 1.1, 3.5, 1.0, 2.6, and 8.9 mg/mL, respectively, on day 10 in group 1. Similar findings were noted in group 2. These results indicate that a taurine-supplemented diet may enhance the conjugation and secretion of bile acid in hepatobiliary patients. 
Failure of right-sided coloanal anastomosis for treatment of left-sided ulcerative colitis. Report of a case. A patient with ulcerative colitis limited to the rectum and distal colon underwent a left hemicolectomy, a mucosal proctectomy, and a coloanal sleeve anastomosis using the normal proximal colon. She experienced macroscopic recurrence of her disease within 2 months of the operation and eventually required excision of the remaining colon and an end ileostomy. Our experience and that of others would indicate that a right-sided coloanal operation is unsuitable for the treatment of left-sided ulcerative colitis. 
Activated T-cell subsets in benign lymphoid hyperplasias and B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Activated tumor-infiltrating T lymphocytes (TIL-T) were quantitated prospectively in excisional biopsy specimens of 49 B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) of various grades and compared with eight benign lymphoid hyperplasias (BLH) to identify any potential difference in host T-cell response. Immunotyping of tissue-cell suspensions was done by three-color flow cytometry, which was complemented by immunocytology by using cytocentrifuged preparations. Two activated T-cell subsets were studied: acutely activated TIL-T (CD3+ CD25+ HLADr-) and chronically activated TIL-T (CD3+ CD25- HLADr+). Results showed an association of the more aggressive intermediate/high-grade B-cell NHL with a higher percentage of late-phase activated TIL-T and a progressive increase with the grade of malignancy: 10.29%, 23.25%, 33.87%, and 47.78% (means) for BLH and for low-, intermediate- and high-grade B-cell NHL, respectively. Differences for this subset were significant (P less than 0.050) for the following comparisons: hyperplasia versus intermediate-grade NHL (P less than 0.0012), hyperplasia versus high-grade NHL (P less than 0.0002), and low versus high-grade NHL (P less than 0.0080). The percentage of acutely activated TIL-T cells did not show a statistically significant difference between the groups. The results suggest a host T-cell response to proliferating neoplastic cells in B-cell NHL. Paradoxically, the response does not appear to be protective for the host since the intensity is directly proportional to the grade of malignancy. However, the recognition of this response may have clinical applications since its amplification with biological response modifiers may result in effective adoptive immunotherapy of B-cell NHL. Further clarification of the specificity and biologic significance of host T-cell activation in B-cell NHL will require functional studies of isolated lymphocytic subpopulations from neoplastic tissue. 
Trends in the operative management of invasive squamous carcinoma of the vulva at Indiana University, 1974 to 1988. From January 1974 to March 1988, 150 patients with primary invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva underwent surgery at Indiana University. There has been a trend toward more conservative surgical management of this disease. To determine the impact of this trend on clinical outcome, cases were divided into three groups according to date of operation: group I, 1974 to 1978; group II, 1979 to 1983; and group III, 1984 to 1988. Overall, 80 patients had en bloc radical vulvectomy and groin dissection, 20 had modified radical vulvectomy and bilateral groin dissection through three separate incisions, and 36 had modified radical vulvectomy and unilateral superficial groin dissection. Fourteen patients had other operations. Forty-two patients (27.3%) had radiotherapy in addition to surgery. Among the three groups, there were no differences when mean age, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage distribution (1988 system), mean lesion size, mean depth of invasion, or grade distribution were compared. A significant trend toward more conservative surgical therapy was observed. En bloc radical vulvectomy was performed in 77.4% of group I patients, 71.1% of group II patients, and 35.8% of group III patients (p less than 0.001). Mean days of hospitalization were also reduced significantly. Group I had a mean stay of 30 days, group II had a mean stay of 23 days, and group III had a mean stay of 11 days (p less than 0.001). Mean operative blood loss (group I, 754.8 ml; group II, 620.0 ml; group III, 393.6 ml; p = 0.03), mean units of blood transfused (group I, 1.4 units; group II, 1.3 units; group III, 0.4 units; p less than 0.01), and mean hours of operating time (group I, 3.7 hours; group II, 3.7 hours; group III, 3.2 hours; p = 0.02) were also reduced. 
Incidence of gallstones in liver cirrhosis. We conducted a longitudinal follow-up of 72 patients with liver cirrhosis (LC) in order to assess gallstone (GS) incidence. The period of survey was 24.5 +/- 12.2 months. Patients were divided into two groups: group I--26 patients with ascites at the start or appearing during follow-up, and Group II--46 patients with compensated LC (no ascites) throughout the survey. During follow-up, 12 of 72 (16.6%) patients developed GS. The global cumulative incidence of GS was 5.5 cases/100 people/year. Age and sex had no influence on the incidence of GS in LC; neither had etiology or cirrhosis. On the contrary, the study revealed a significant increase in the incidence of GS in decompensated cirrhosis. In group I patients, GS appeared more frequently (34.6%) than in group II patients (6.5%) (chi 2 9.479; p less than 0.002). The cumulative incidence of GS was five times higher in decompensated versus compensated LC. 
Radionuclide angiographic evaluation of left ventricular diastolic function. Left ventricular diastolic function is altered in the majority of patients with cardiac diseases, especially those characterized by myocardial ischemia or hypertrophy. In many circumstances, such abnormalities related to impaired relaxation or reduced distensibility may precede evidence of left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Radionuclide angiography may be adapted to study the rapid filling phase of diastole, the duration of the isovolumic relaxation phase, the relative contributions of rapid filling and atrial systole to left ventricular stroke volume, and the relation between regional nonuniformity of left ventricular function and global filling properties. Technical aspects of data acquisition that must be considered for such studies include the effects of cardiac cycle length fluctuations, temporal resolution, temporal smoothing, and normalization parameters. As noninvasive radionuclide methods (and any other analyses using purely noninvasive techniques) do not permit assessment of the left atrial-left ventricular pressure gradient or the simultaneous evaluation of changes in left ventricular pressure and volume during relaxation and filling, complete clinical interpretation of "abnormal" left ventricular filling indexes, or changes in these indexes after interventions, is not possible. Despite the inherent limitations of noninvasive assessment of left ventricular diastolic function, radionuclide evaluation of left ventricular filling may provide clinically useful insights, especially in patients with congestive heart failure symptoms and normal left ventricular systolic function. 
Safety and efficacy of alfentanil and halothane in paediatric surgical patients. Alfentanil, a congener of the opioid fentanyl, possesses properties that make it an attractive choice for use during short operative procedures. Since the pharmacodynamic aspects of alfentanil have not been well documented in children, this study was undertaken to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and dose requirements of alfentanil when used with nitrous oxide or halothane in paediatric patients. Eighty unpremedicated patients, ASA physical status I or II and aged 2-12 yr were studied. Patients were randomly assigned to one of four groups. After induction of anaesthesia with nitrous oxide, oxygen, and halothane, the groups were treated as follows. In Group 1 (n = 19), after halothane was discontinued, alfentanil 50 micrograms.kg-1 was infused over 30 sec. In Group 2 (n = 20), the end-tidal halothan was maintained at 0.5% and alfentanil 25 micrograms.kg-1 was infused. In Group 3 (n = 20), the end-tidal halothane concentration was maintained at 1% and alfentanil 12.5 micrograms.kg-1 was infused. In Group 4 (n = 21), the end-tidal halothane concentration was maintained at 1.5% and no alfentanil was administered. Patients in Groups 1, 2, and 3 received bolus doses of alfentanil 12.5 micrograms.kg-1 as needed to maintain haemodynamic stability. After alfentanil administration, there were transient decreases in systolic blood pressure in Groups 1 and 2, and in heart rate in Group 2. With surgical stimulation, haemodynamic stability was well maintained except in patients in Group 1, who had an increase in systolic blood pressure. Children Group 1 were alert sooner and their tracheas were extubated earlier than those in Groups 2, 3, and 4. 
Pulse oximetry in acute asthma. The predictive value of pulse oximetry was evaluated in 100 patients who attended the emergency department with acute asthma. Oximetry after treatment with a cut off point of less than 91% had a sensitivity of 42% and specificity of 78% for unfavourable outcome, and oximetry before treatment had a sensitivity of 36% and a specificity of 57%. Despite its low sensitivity, oximetry after treatment does seem to have a role in minimising diagnostic errors in the emergency department, but only when used in conjunction with clinical assessment. 
Carcinoma of the larynx. Changing incidence in women. Laryngeal carcinoma has classically been considered a disease of men with a history of tobacco and alcohol abuse. Substantial increases in the incidence of laryngeal carcinoma have occurred among both men and women from 1947 through 1984. In men, the incidence has increased from 5.6 to 9.0 per 100,000 population and in women, from 0.5 to 1.5 per 100,000 population. We recently encountered three consecutive cases of laryngeal carcinoma in women at the Ben Taub General Hospital, Houston, Tex, diagnosed and treated over a 3-month period. Each woman had a long history of cigarette smoking, and two also had a history of alcohol abuse. These consecutive presentations of laryngeal carcinomas in women prompted us to examine our Cancer Registry Files from 1959 through 1973 and 1974 through 1988. Over these two 15-year periods, the male-to-female ratio declined from 5.6:1 to 4.5:1, reflecting a greater incidence among women. 
Mesenteric infarction secondary to tumor emboli from primary aortic sarcoma. Guidelines for diagnosis and management. Primary aortic tumors are rare, difficult to diagnose, and often fatal. This case and a review of the literature identified aortic tumors as a potential source of emboli leading to acute mesenteric insufficiency. The case showed the efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging in diagnosing and determining the extent and location of an aortic tumor. 
Interaction between dactinomycin and tumor necrosis factor in mesothelioma. Cachexia without oncolysis. There is no effective therapy for human malignant mesothelioma, and its susceptibility to recombinant cytokines has not been studied extensively. Recombinant human tumor necrosis factor alpha (rHuTNF alpha) was evaluated for its in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity using a human malignant mesothelioma cell line [DeH128(m)], both in culture and heterotransplanted in nude mice. In vitro, rHuTNF alone had no direct antimesothelioma activity assessed using the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide assay, but in combination with the transcription inhibitor, dactinomycin (AD), mesothelioma cell metabolic activity was inhibited (80% of control). The effects of this combination of agents were studied on DeH128(m) cells heterotransplanted as subcutaneous tumors in nude mice. In vivo there was no significant inhibition of tumor growth by combined rHuTNF alpha and AD therapy, but the combination produced marked cachexia in doses at which each component (rHuTNF alone or AD alone) was well tolerated. The authors conclude that the well-described in vitro interaction between AD and rHuTNF also operates in vivo to produce cachexia and that the combination of these two agents is likely to have a low therapeutic index in malignant mesothelioma. 
Induced bone development in transplants of fresh human pseudomalignant heterotopic ossification tissue in athymic nude mice. Biopsy specimens of mature trabecular bone from tumors of two typical cases of pseudomalignant heterotopic ossification (PHO; myositis ossificans circumscripta) were transplanted into athymic nude mice. Specimens of normal metaphyseal bone in adjacent areas were also transplanted in the contralateral hindquarter muscles for controls. By seven days, control bone transplants were necrotic and enveloped in granulation tissues whereas PHO transplants were surrounded by proliferating connective tissue derived from the host-bed muscle tissues. In the intervals from 14 and 21 days, the PHO transplants showed vascular and hypertrophied connective-tissue proliferation with appositional deposits of new bone. The microscopic features of the new bone suggested that it was of mouse host-bed origin because the new bone from Case 1, a female, showed nuclei without sex chromatin. The quantities of new bone were measured by correlated histomorphometric and computer image analysis of microradiographs. Little or no cartilage development was noted at any stage. The normal control trabecular bone tissue was slowly resorbed by macrophages and mononuclear phagocytes; multinucleated giant cells were few and relatively small. Except in one questionably small area of one transplant, nontumorous undemineralized normal human bone failed to induce bone formation within the 28-day period of observation. The quantity of new bone formed in athymic mice in response to implants of PHO, estimated from equivalent quantities of bone developed from implants of lyophilized matrix-free bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) was about 1 microgram/g of wet PHO tumor weight. Although circumstantial evidence implicates BMP in the pathogenesis of heterotopic ossification, more research should be directed toward regional and systemic factors inhibiting bone development in normal and abnormal conditions, including malignant bone tumors. 
Nonrandom distribution of N-myc oncogene genotypes in neuroblastoma. The distributions of Pvu II and Sph I alleles of the N-myc oncogene (also known as MYCN) were studied in a series of normal individuals and pediatric patients with solid tumors. In the case of Pvu II, where the polymorphic site is located 3' of the gene, the frequencies of the allele were 0.27 (11-kilobase fragment) and 0.73 (8-kilobase fragment) in 43 unrelated normal Caucasians. The frequencies of the allele were similar in 40 non-N-myc-amplified neuroblastomas, 47 Wilms' tumors, and 31 other pediatric tumors. In these cases, the genotypes were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. In 18 N-myc-amplified neuroblastomas, however, the observed genotype frequencies deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (P less than .005). Similar observations were made with an Sph I restriction fragment length polymorphism where the polymorphic site is located in intron 2. The differences between amplified and nonamplified neuroblastomas suggest a possible involvement of sequences at or near N-myc in the progression of tumors where the N-myc gene is amplified. 
Self-efficacy and outcome expectancies: relationship to chronic pain coping strategies and adjustment. Recent studies suggest that coping strategies play an important role in adjustment to chronic pain. Identification of factors that influence coping could potentially help clinicians facilitate the use of adaptive coping strategies by pain patients. According to social learning theory, self-efficacy beliefs (judgments regarding one's capabilities) and outcome expectancies (judgments regarding the consequences of behaviors) are significant determinants of coping behavior. This study tested hypotheses derived from social learning theory by examining the contributions of these beliefs to the prediction of coping behavior in chronic pain patients. One hundred and fourteen chronic pain patients completed measures of health-related dysfunction, pain severity, use of 8 coping strategies, and outcome and self-efficacy expectancies regarding these coping strategies. In support of social learning theory, and consistent with research in other areas, the patients' beliefs regarding their capabilities were strongly related to reported coping efforts. Beliefs about the consequences of coping efforts and their interaction with beliefs about capabilities were generally unrelated to coping. These results suggest that treatment should emphasize the actual practice and use of adaptive coping strategies over education about their outcome. 
Ebstein's anomaly appearing in the neonate. A new surgical approach. Ebstein's anomaly appearing during the neonatal period carries a high mortality rate. These infants exhibit cyanosis, acidosis, and congestive heart failure. The pathophysiologic characteristics consist of severe tricuspid regurgitation and functional pulmonary atresia. As a result of the inability of the right ventricle to generate forward flow through the pulmonary arteries, these infants remain dependent on ductal patency. Since May 1988, five newborn infants with severe Ebstein's anomaly have been admitted for treatment at our institution. At initial examination, they weighed 3.6 +/- 1.8 kg and had a mean oxygen tension of 29.6 +/- 2.3 mm Hg and a mean pH of 7.20 +/- 0.05. Chest roentgenography demonstrated a mean cardiothoracic ratio of 0.81 +/- 0.02. As determined by echocardiography, the right atria were massively enlarged, severe tricuspid regurgitation was present in all patients, and the pulmonary valves were not opening. All infants were dependent on prostaglandin E1 and attempts to wean them from this drug were unsuccessful. Palliative treatment consisted of tricuspid closure with autologous pericardium and an aortopulmonary shunt of 4 mm polytetrafluoroethylene tubing. There were no operative or late deaths. At discharge, mean oxygen tension was 42.2 +/- 0.85 mm Hg and mean systemic oxygen saturation was 83.2% +/- 1.94%. Infants have grown satisfactorily during the follow-up period. Three infants have since returned for further surgical intervention. One infant, at 11 months of age, underwent a Glenn anastomosis for progressive oxygen desaturation. Two infants have returned, at ages 23 and 22 months, for Fontan procedures, which represent their definitive operative management. We believe this new procedure offers excellent palliative treatment for Ebstein's anomaly in critically ill neonates. Feasibility of later definitive correction is demonstrated by the good results obtained with the Fontan procedure in two infants. 
Foscarnet in the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection of the esophagus and colon in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Foscarnet, administered via a central line, was used for the treatment of 18 episodes of cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophageal ulceration in 15 patients, and in the treatment of 27 episodes of CMV colitis in 22 patients. In 15 of the 18 episodes of the esophageal disease, there was complete loss of symptoms within 2 wk. Only three of the 15 patients responding to foscarnet therapy had a relapse of their esophageal disease. Two of these patients were successfully retreated with foscarnet. Of the 22 patients receiving foscarnet for CMV colitis, four died during foscarnet therapy. Of the 18 patients completing the course of treatment with foscarnet for first-episode CMV colitis, 11 remitted completely and six had a partial remission. All patients with partial remission had a second pathogen responsible for the continuation of their diarrhea. Only one patient completing a course of foscarnet failed to respond microscopically to treatment. Three patients experienced relapse of their CMV colitis, two of whom responded to further courses of foscarnet. Foscarnet is an effective therapy for CMV disease of the gastrointestinal tract, with rapid resolution of clinical symptoms, long-term remission of esophageal disease, and shorter disease-free periods for CMV colitis. 
Delayed hearing loss after surgery for acoustic neurinomas: clinical and electrophysiological observations. In a series of 26 patients with medium-sized and large acoustic neurinomas and documented hearing before surgery, 7 patients had preservation of hearing initially after the procedure but then developed delayed hearing loss. The most prominent intraoperative electrophysiological finding in these cases was a gradual deterioration of brain stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP), especially of Wave V. Four additional patients with a similar gradual intraoperative loss of BAEP and severe postoperative hearing deterioration received vasoactive treatment after surgery (low-molecular weight dextran). In all 4 patients, including 1 patient with documented total deafness after surgery, hearing was preserved. Initial preservation of cochlear nerve function after the removal of an acoustic neurinoma does not guarantee postoperative hearing. Intraoperative BAEP help to identify patients at risk for delayed postoperative hearing loss. The pathophysiological mechanism can be attributed to disturbances of the microcirculation in endoneurial vasa nervorum caused by the mechanical manipulation of the cochlear nerve. 
Poststenotic dilatation. Partial narrowing of arteries produces poststenotic dilatation. This appears as a dilation of the vessel wall 1 to 3 centimeters distal to the area of a partial stenosis. When a stenotic band is placed in dogs, poststenotic dilatation develops rapidly, often within eight to ten days. Moderate stenoses that produce a bruit and thrill are effective in eliciting poststenotic dilatation, whereas very tight and very mild stenoses usually are ineffective. Thus, development of poststenotic dilatation requires the presence of flow disturbances sufficient to produce an audible bruit and a palpable thrill. Although the exact flow disturbance is uncertain, statis, increased lateral pressure, cavitation, abnormal shear stresses and turbulence all have been postulated to be the cause of poststenotic dilatation. Of these, experimental studies support abnormal shear stresses and turbulence as the most likely causes. Whatever the flow disturbance, it must make the wall vibrate to produce poststenotic dilatation. Vibrations are thought to produce alterations in wall elastin and possibly in vascular smooth muscle tone. This leads to dilatation of the vessel. If the dilatation is slight, removal of the stenosis may cause reversal of poststenotic dilatation with recovery beginning within hours of correction of the stenosis. If the dilated area is enlarged to twice normal diameter, it may exhibit permanent aneurysmal changes and, therefore, requires resections with reanastomosis. Arteries that are dilated to as little as one-third more than normal size may contain areas of ulceration with overlying thrombus. These vessels also may require resection with reanastomosis. 
Relationship between glucose tolerance and quantitative changes of islet cells in chronic obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer. This study was conducted to clarify the relationship between indicators of preoperative glucose tolerance and quantitative changes of endocrine cells in the islet of Langerhans in patients with chronic obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer. Twenty-one specimens of pancreatic tissue obtained from patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy or total pancreatectomy for pancreatoduodenal cancer were divided into four groups according to the degree of fibrosis (Grades 0-III). Islet cells in serial sections were stained immunohistochemically to determine the proportions of B-, A-, D-, and PP-cells in the islets of Langerhans. In patients with pancreatic tissue with the most severe fibrosis, of several preoperative glucose metabolism indices measured, it was found that the ratio of integrated value of change in serum insulin to that of serum glucose (sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS) was significantly decreased. There was a significant positive correlation between proportion of B-cells, and both the ratio of change in insulin to that of glucose (delta IRI:delta BS) and sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS. On the other hand, there was a significant negative correlation between proportion of A-cells and sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS. The present data strongly suggest that it is possible to estimate the degree of fibrosis and to quantify changes of the islet cells prior to surgery in patients with obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer by calculating these glucose metabolism indices, and that sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS is a particularly useful index. 
Cavoatrial tumor thrombectomy using cardiopulmonary bypass without circulatory arrest. Of 29 patients with inferior vena caval tumor thrombus, 14 with supradiaphragmatic extension were deemed suitable for operation. Patients (age, 7.5 to 70 years) had renal cell carcinoma (n = 8), Wilms' tumor (n = 2), transitional cell carcinoma (n = 1), and adrenal carcinoma (n = 3). Seven patients had stage III disease, and 7 patients had stage IV disease. Two patients (group A) had unresectable disease at exploratory celiotomy, 4 patients (group B) underwent tumor thrombectomy without cardiopulmonary bypass, and cardiopulmonary bypass was employed in 8 patients (group C). Three of 8 group C patients had Budd-Chiari syndrome at diagnosis. Cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia, and inferior vena caval interruption (clip or filter), was employed in all patients. There were no perioperative deaths. Transient neurological impairment was observed postoperatively in 2 patients. Coagulopathy developed in 1 patient who had hepatic encephalopathy and Budd-Chiari syndrome preoperatively and in another patient in whom protamine could not be administered. No patient had acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. Median survival is 41 and 17 months in groups B and C, respectively. Some authors have advocated profound hypothermia and circulatory arrest in these patients. We find that satisfactory visualization and excision can be performed with cardiopulmonary bypass and moderate hypothermia, avoiding potential renal, hepatic, neurological, and septic complications associated with circulatory arrest. 
Serum cholesterol concentration and coronary heart disease in population with low cholesterol concentrations. OBJECTIVE--To examine the relation between serum cholesterol concentration and mortality (from coronary heart disease and from other causes) below the range of cholesterol values generally seen in Western populations. DESIGN--Prospective observational study based on 8-13 years of follow up of subjects in a population with low cholesterol concentrations. SETTING--Urban Shanghai, China. SUBJECTS--9021 Chinese men and women aged 35-64 at baseline. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Death from coronary heart disease and other causes. RESULTS--The average serum cholesterol concentration was 4.2 mmol/l at baseline examination, and only 43 (7%) of the deaths that occurred during 8-13 years of follow up were attributed to coronary heart disease. There was a strongly positive, and apparently independent, relation between serum cholesterol concentration and death from coronary heart disease (z = 3.47, p less than 0.001), and within the range of usual serum cholesterol concentration studied (3.8-4.7 mmol/l) there was no evidence of any threshold. After appropriate adjustment for the regression dilution bias, a 4 (SD 1)% difference in usual cholesterol concentration was associated with a 21 (SD 6)% (95% confidence interval 9% to 35%) difference in mortality from coronary heart disease. There was no significant relation between serum cholesterol concentration and death from stroke or all types of cancer. The 79 deaths due to liver cancer or other chronic liver disease were inversely related to cholesterol concentration at baseline. CONCLUSION--Blood cholesterol concentration was directly related to mortality from coronary heart disease even in those with what was, by Western standards, a "low" cholesterol concentration. There was no good evidence of an adverse effect of cholesterol on other causes of death. 
Enucleation after plaque radiotherapy for posterior uveal melanoma. Histopathologic findings. A review of 1019 patients with posterior uveal melanomas, who were treated with episcleral plaque radiotherapy between April 1976 and December 1987, showed that 59 (6%) of these patients have thus far required enucleation of the affected eye. The most common clinical reasons for enucleation were tumor regrowth (51%) and neovascular glaucoma (31%). These irradiated melanomas were of mixed cell type in 40 cases (68%), spindle in 10 cases (17%), totally necrotic in 7 cases (12%), and epithelioid in 2 cases (3%). Some degree of tumor necrosis was seen in all cases. Overall, the median number of mitoses per 40 high-power fields in these irradiated tumors was 0. Most (64%) of the tumors had no identifiable mitosis in 40 high-power fields. A three-way simultaneous comparison of the following groups was made: irradiated eyes enucleated for tumor regrowth, irradiated eyes enucleated for neovascular glaucoma, and a matched group of nonirradiated posterior uveal melanomas. This comparison showed that the largest tumor dimension was significantly greater in the irradiated eyes enucleated for tumor regrowth than in the other two groups. Mitotic activity was significantly higher in the irradiated tumor regrowth and nonirradiated groups than in the irradiated neovascular group. There was no significant difference among the three groups in an analysis of height. The results suggested that mitotic activity may exist after plaque radiotherapy, especially when there is clinical evidence of tumor regrowth. 
Thromboembolism in patients with advanced mitral valve prolapse Thromboembolism in mitral valve prolapse (MVP) has been suggested to occur in relation to valvular cul-de-sac recesses and endothelial wear-and-tear denudations. Such pathology would be suspected to be prominent in advanced cases of MVP necessitating open-heart operation. We therefore analysed the prevalence of perivalvular thrombi and episodes of systemic arterial embolism (SE) prior to operation in 21 consecutive patients with MVP and severe valve regurgitation. No perivalvular or left atrial thrombi were found during open-heart surgery, but three of the patients (14%, 3-36% with 95% confidence limits) experienced SE, in one case despite long-term anticoagulation. All cases of SE took place less than 3 months before operation. The results indicate that persistent thrombi are rare in MVP and severe valve regurgitation. However, such patients run a substantial risk of SE when they reach a clinical and haemodynamic stage that makes valve surgery mandatory. 
A mathematical computer stimulation model for the development of colonic polyps and colon cancer. Currently known information about the development and progression of colon polyps and cancer is summarized and organized into a mathematical computer simulation model that successfully predicts the natural history of colon polyp and cancer development for an average patient with (1) familial polyposis coli (2) genetic susceptibility as measured by a positive family history, and (3) negative family history with a high fat diet. The mathematical model uses four distinct types of cells (normal, transformed, polypoid, and cancerous) and two kinetic processes (mutation and promotion). Arachidonic acid metabolites play a role in the model in the promotion of cancer from polyps, and account for that promotion through: (1) their effect on encouraging more polypoid cells in mitosis to move toward cancer; and (2) their immunosuppressive effect over time. The model also shows that one defect in allowing more cells to mutate to the transformed state is sufficient to account for the chain of events leading to the clinical sequelae of familial polyposis coli. A second genetic effect at another point in the process is unnecessary. The mechanism of action of Sulindac on colon polyps is explained by the model through inhibition of production of arachidonic acid metabolites, most notably prostaglandin E. 
Sepsis. What it is and how to recognize it. Sepsis, shock, and resuscitation may result in various degrees of ischemia-perfusion injury that may produce widespread organ dysfunction through complex interactions and activation of host immunoinflammatory processes. As the pathophysiologic mechanisms of the inflammatory response are better defined, we may be able to modulate the generalized inflammatory state we know as sepsis and prevent the development of multiple organ failure syndrome. At present, however, the mainstay of therapy remains prompt resuscitation to eliminate regions of hypoperfusion and to limit as much as possible those factors that predispose to further organ injury while the source of inflammatory stimulation is being identified and controlled. 
Membrane cerebral lipids in Rett syndrome. The lipid membrane composition of cerebral tissue from 5 patients with classic Rett syndrome, ages 12-30 years, and from 14 age-matched controls was studied. The results demonstrated a selective loss of myelin-associated lipids and an enrichment of gangliosides in temporal white matter. The ganglioside pattern revealed an increase of astroglial cell-associated gangliosides and reduced proportions of gangliosides GD1a and GT1b. This latter finding may be crucial in synaptic function. The fatty acid compositions of ethanolamine phosphoglyceride, choline phosphoglyceride, and galactosylceramide were normal. 
Thyroid adenocarcinomas secondary to tissue-specific expression of simian virus-40 large T-antigen in transgenic mice. A hybrid gene comprising the bovine thyroglobulin gene promoter and the coding region for the simian virus-40 large T- and small t-antigens was used to generate 30 transgenic mice by microinjection into the pronuclei of single cell embryos. All animals except three developed, as single primitive pathology, a dramatic enlargement of the thyroid gland. Compression of trachea and esophagus, accompanied by dyspnea, inspiratory stridor, and dysphagia, led to a progressive cachexia and premature death attributed to respiratory failure. Despite the large thyroid volume, T4 levels were abnormally low, and the progression of the syndrome could be delayed by a substitutive treatment with thyroid hormones. The rapid evolution of the disease, leading to the death of most founder transgenic animals before the breeding age, prevented transmission of the transgene to their offspring. Only two transgenic lines are presently surviving. Immunohistochemical analysis of the tissues revealed a specific expression of the simian virus-40 antigens in the thyroid cells. Hyperplasia was already obvious at birth. Older animals displayed moderately to poorly differentiated thyroid adenocarcinomas. Electron microscopy revealed, however, the persistence of cell polarity and the presence of microfollicles between the densely packed cells. Cell lines derived from these large T-expressing thyroids were shown to have lost expression of both thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase, while expressing low levels of TSH receptors. These transgenic mice could constitute an interesting model of aggressive adenocarcinoma, sharing phenotypical similarities with the anaplastic type of human thyroid tumors. 
A phase I trial of high-dose diaziquone and autologous bone marrow transplantation: an Illinois Cancer Council study. Diaziquone (AZQ), a synthetic quinone with demonstrated activity against acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), primary CNS tumors, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), is virtually devoid of nonhematopoietic toxicity at conventional doses. As a prelude to its inclusion into bone marrow transplant (BMT) preparative regimens, a phase I study of high-dose AZQ with autologous BMT (ABMT) was performed. Patients with refractory solid tumors and lymphomas were treated with a single 24-hour infusion of AZQ at 50 to 355 mg/m2 in dose escalations of 20%. Fifty-six patients received 69 courses. Those receiving greater than 60 mg/m2 had nadir granulocyte and platelet counts less than 500/microL and 20,000/microL, respectively. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, and diarrhea were mild, transient, and not dose-related. Transient minimal elevations of liver function tests were seen in five patients and were also not dose-related. The maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of high-dose AZQ was found to be 245 mg/m2, with nephrotoxicity being dose-limiting. Significant azotemia was seen in four of 12 patients treated at 295 and 355 mg/m2, including fatal anuric renal failure in three of these patients. Reversible proteinuria also occurred in 24 of 26 courses above 150 mg/m2, including nephrotic range proteinuria in eight courses, all at doses of 205 to 355 mg/m2. The proteinuria was also associated with multiple proximal tubular defects including generalized aminoaciduria and proximal renal tubular acidosis. There were six early deaths including two of early renal failure (295 and 355 mg/m2), two of sepsis (205 and 245 mg/m2), one of a pulmonary embolus (85 mg/m2), and one of progressive disease (60 mg/m2). Of 50 patients who were assessable for response, there were seven responses including two of 10 with primary CNS tumors, one of 12 with malignant melanoma, one of five with non-small-cell lung carcinoma, two of two with breast carcinoma, and one of one with ovarian carcinoma. Because of its activity in ANLL and NHL and its unique toxicity spectrum, high-dose AZQ may improve the efficacy of current BMT preparative regimens without significantly increasing their nonhematopoietic toxicity. 
Use of purified streptokinase in empyema and hemothorax. Enzymatic debridement of the pleural cavity for retained hemothorax or empyema is a frequently overlooked option. Thirteen of fourteen patients (93%) with retained pleural collections underwent successful enzymatic debridement and tube drainage with purified streptokinase injections. The average increase in chest tube output following streptokinase injections was 158%. No significant adverse reactions occurred. One patient required thoracotomy when streptokinase therapy failed. Two others had successful resolution of their pleural collections but required thoracotomy for other indications. There were two deaths (14%), which were unrelated to the use of streptokinase or residual empyema. Intrapleural streptokinase is a safe, effective means of removing retained proteinaceous collections in the pleural space. It is a useful adjunct to chest tube drainage and may obviate the need for more invasive procedures. 
Sexual function and testosterone levels in men with nonalcoholic liver disease. The effects of nonalcoholic liver disease on sexual desire, arousal, activity, orgasmic function and satisfaction and serum testosterone levels were studied in 75 men with nonalcoholic liver disease. Each man was interviewed about his sexual behavior and problems and was asked to comment on whether he felt liver disease affected his sexual function. The average age of the patients was 49 yr, and a wide variety of liver diseases was represented. Child-Pugh grading was A in 51 patients, B in 18 and C in 6; the mean duration of liver disease was 8 yr. Sexual desire, arousal and activity of patients with grade A disease were within the ranges observed in studies of healthy men of comparable age. Diminished sexual desire was reported by 2% of grade A patients and 35% of grade B and C patients (p less than 0.005). Arousal problems were noted by 16% of grade A patients, 60% of grade B patients and 67% of C patients (p less than 0.005). Loss of erection and inability to regain erection were noted by 7%, 40% and 67% of grade A, B and C patients, respectively (p less than 0.01). Premature and retarded ejaculation were more frequent in patients classed in Child-Pugh grades B and C. Frequency of coitus and orgasm were significantly higher in grade A patients than in grade B and C patients. Total and free testosterone levels were (in nanograms per milliliter) A, 677/1.78; B, 416/1.06; and C, 178/0.43 (p less than 0.002). We concluded that Child-Pugh grade A nonalcoholic liver disease in men does not affect sexual desire, function or performance. Men with disease grades B and C have significant sexual dysfunction and significant reduction of both total and free testosterone levels. 
Lymphography--current role in oncology. A review of the use of lymphography at this hospital, a major oncology centre, is presented. The advent of computed tomography has brought a dramatic reduction in the number of lymphograms currently performed for diseases such as lymphoma, testicular tumours and gynaecological malignancies. This study analyses the reasons for this decline, and concludes that valuable information can still be obtained from lymphography in certain selected groups of patients. 
CT of the pancreas in children. CT has become a frequently used imaging method for evaluating suspected pancreatic disease in children. Although the spectrum of CT findings in pancreatic disease is well documented in adults, there is a paucity of such information in children. Familiarity with CT patterns of pancreatic disease in childhood is important for diagnosis. In this essay, we illustrate the CT findings of pancreatic lesions in children. 
Spontaneous hepatic copper accumulation in Long-Evans Cinnamon rats with hereditary hepatitis. A model of Wilson's disease. Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats, an inbred strain of a mutant rat isolated from Long-Evans rats, develop hereditary hepatitis. To elucidate the role of copper metabolism in the development of the hepatitis in LEC rats, we examined the copper concentration in the tissues and serum levels of copper and ceruloplasmin. Copper concentration in the liver of LEC rats was over 40 times that of normal Long-Evans Agouti (LEA) rats, while the serum ceruloplasmin and copper concentrations in LEC rats decreased significantly. The hepatocytes of LEC rats show steatosis in cytoplasm and pleomorphism of mitochondria, resembling the histologic features of the liver in Wilson's disease. These findings suggest that the hereditary hepatitis in LEC rats is closely associated with copper toxicity, and may be dealing with a rat form of Wilson's disease. Thus the LEC rats will provide a unique and useful animal model for clarifying the mechanism and for developing treatment strategies for Wilson's disease and other abnormal copper metabolism in humans. 
Comparison of continuous epidural bupivacaine infusion plus either continuous epidural infusion or patient-controlled epidural injection of fentanyl for postoperative analgesia. We compared the postoperative epidural analgesia provided by the continuous epidural infusion of bupivacaine supplemented with patient-controlled injection (PCA) of epidural fentanyl with that provided by a continuous infusion of bupivacaine supplemented with a continuous epidural infusion of fentanyl. Our patient population comprised 16 ASA physical status I or II patients undergoing laparotomy with a midline incision under general anesthesia combined with bupivacaine epidural analgesia. Post-operatively, a continuous epidural infusion of bupivacaine (0.1 mg.kg-1.h-1) was combined with epidural fentanyl given by either (a) PCA (15-micrograms bolus with a lockout interval of 12 min, n = 8) or (b) continuous infusion (1 microgram.kg-1.h-1, n = 8). In the case of inadequate pain relief in the latter group, the fentanyl infusion rate was increased by 10 micrograms/h. Analgesia evaluated by a visual analogue pain score and by a verbal pain score was similarly effective in both groups. The sedation score was also similar in both groups. The total dose of epidural fentanyl administered during the first 24 h was significantly lower in the PCA group than in the continuous infusion group (405 +/- 110 micrograms vs 1600 +/- 245 micrograms, P less than 0.001). The dose of fentanyl given during each 4-h interval ranged between 40 and 160 micrograms in the PCA group and 251 and 292 micrograms in the continuous infusion group. Clinically detectable respiratory depression was not observed in either group. In conclusion, epidural administration of 0.1 mg.kg-1.h-1 bupivacaine combined with fentanyl provides effective postoperative analgesia with a total dose of fentanyl required that is lower when fentanyl is administered by epidural PCA rather than by continuous epidural infusion. 
Staging relationships and outcome in early stage testicular cancer: a report from the Testicular Cancer Intergroup Study. The Testicular Cancer Center Intergroup Study entered surgically staged patients with nonseminomatous tumor and metastases limited to the regional lymph nodes into a previously reported cooperative trial of immediate versus delayed therapy for positive retroperitoneal node disease. Patients with negative nodes (stage I) were placed in an observation registry with specified treatment strategy upon relapse. Of 264 stage I cancer patients 27 (10.2%) had recurrence: 5 of these 27 patients died after recurrence of the testicular malignancies, while 4 other nontumor-related deaths have occurred. Pre-lymphadenectomy staging characteristics observed to predict significantly node positivity are the results of radiological examinations, presence of tumor invasion, vascular invasion and tumor histology. In a multiple logistic regression analysis with these variables, misclassification still occurs in more than a fourth of the patients. Future refinements in diagnosis may allow for better prediction of these patients at risk to have positive lymph nodes and ultimately recurrence. Presently, if assessment of nodal involvement is the objective, noninvasive procedures are not an adequate substitute for surgical staging with modified lymphadenectomy. 
The detection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in HBsAG negative individuals with primary liver cancer. The importance of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in the development of primary liver cancer has been established by epidemiological studies. However, the evidence for a direct role of the virus in liver carcinogenesis is still tentative. In addition, the findings of HBV DNA sequences in HBsAg-negative subjects with liver cancer has been reported, although it is controversial. Here we report the use of the polymerase chain reaction to detect HBV DNA in the serum and liver of HBsAg-negative patients. This technique allows both for the detection and cloning of HBV variants. In addition, the demonstration of HBV DNA and RNA molecules in HCC of HBsAg-negative individuals as determined by standard techniques reinforces the role of HBV in the pathogenesis of this tumor. 
Results of fundoplication in a UK paediatric centre. Of 55 children (age 3 months to 16 years) who had fundoplication, major complications occurred in nine (16 per cent): paraoesophageal hernia (five cases), prolonged ileus (two cases), recurrent gastro-oesophageal reflux (one case), and accidental perforation (one case). The single most important factor resulting in complications was the omission of crural repair; of seven patients without crural repair, five developed paraoesophageal hernia/recurrence. Four patients required repeat fundoplication for severe recurrent symptoms and one of these developed the unusual complication of pericardiogastric fistula. Thirteen patients had strictures before operation from reflux oesophagitis, six (46 per cent) resolved after fundoplication alone, six responded to dilatation (mean five sessions), and one required colon interposition. Our preliminary experience with balloon dilatation was encouraging: three of three patients responded after one dilatation only. These results confirmed the efficacy of surgery in controlling reflux: 100 per cent in the short-term and 89 per cent on a 1-6 year follow-up. Major complications might well be reduced by routine crural repair. 
Prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting using ondansetron, a new, selective, 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. The effect of ondansetron, a 5-HT3 antagonist, in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting was investigated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 84 patients undergoing gynecologic operation and receiving the same general anesthetic. The patients received premedication with either 16 mg oral ondansetron, or a matching placebo. The same medication was given postoperatively 8 h after the first dose. During the first hour after recovery from anesthesia, the frequencies of nausea and vomiting were 52% and 40%, respectively, in patients given placebos. In the ondansetron group nausea and vomiting developed in 17% and 12%, respectively, values significantly different from those with placebos (P less than 0.005). Similar differences were observed throughout the entire 24-h period after recovery, the incidence of nausea and vomiting being 67% and 60%, respectively, in the placebo group and 29% and 26% in the ondansetron treatment group. Ondansetron appears to be a promising antiemetic for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. 
Method for auditing turnround time in histopathology related to user requirements. Histopathology audit schemes have concentrated on the accuracy of diagnosis or the standard of technical work. The most appropriate measure of specimen report time for histopathology was assessed. The simplest method is to calculate the mean or median number of days from receipt of specimens to issue of report, but this takes no account of clinical practice. An alternative approach is to compare the laboratory's performance with the clinicians' requirements. Clinicians were invited to complete a questionnaire specifying the reporting times they required subdivided by tissue type, clinical suspicion of malignancy, and bed occupancy of the patient. The questionnaire showed that there were distinct differences in clinicians' requirements. The turnround time for each category of specimen was calculated and expressed in three ways. The traditional method of quoting a median value showed very few differences among the categories. A comparison of the department's performance with the clinicians' requirements, using an arbitrary cut-off point of satisfying at least 80% of the clinicians' most stringent requirements or an achievement index, however, provided useful information for refining laboratory priorities. 
Histological grading of squamous cell carcinoma of the penis: a new scoring system. A system of histological grading based on retrospective analysis of 239 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis is presented. A new scoring system with 4 histological grades was used. The results of this study confirm previous reports that penile cancer is usually a highly (50%) or moderately (29%) differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Poorly differentiated carcinomas and cancers of other types are very rare. The new grading system was found to be practical and a correlation between histological grade, clinical findings and prognosis was established. Patients with grade 1 tumours had an exceptionally favourable prognosis, with more than 80% being long-term survivors; for these patients, treatment with delayed side effects should be avoided and new forms of treatment should be explored. 
Incidence and treatment of rejection episodes in primary orthotopic liver transplantation under FK 506. FK 506 therapy with low doses of steroids was adequate to control rejection in most liver recipients. Rejection episodes were readily reversed with single IV doses of methylprednisone or hydrocortisone. Short courses of OKT3 (3 to 5 days 5-10 mL) controlled severe rejections. The rate of retransplantation directly due to rejection was low (1.6%). There was a limited need for steroids either early or out to 6 to 12 months. 
Evaluating genetic association among ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer: evidence for a breast/ovarian cancer relationship. The possibility of a genetic relationship between ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer was investigated in data from a large multicenter, population-based, case-control study, the Cancer and Steroid Hormone Study conducted by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Age-adjusted relative risks (RRs) for mothers and sisters of 493 ovarian cancer cases, 895 breast cancer cases, and 143 endometrial cancer cases versus 4,754 controls were calculated. Significantly elevated age-adjusted RRs were found for ovarian cancer (RR = 2.8; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.6-4.9) and breast cancer (RR = 1.6; 95% CI = 1.1-2.1) among relatives of ovarian cancer probands and for breast cancer (RR = 2.1; 95% CI = 1.7-2.5) and ovarian cancer (RR = 1.7; 95% CI = 1.0-2.0) among relatives of breast cancer probands. Relatives of endometrial cancer probands had an elevated RR for endometrial cancer only (RR = 2.7; 95% CI = 1.6-4.8). The genetic relationship between ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer was tested using a multivariate polygenic threshold model developed by Smith (1976), which was modified to accommodate three classes of probands. Estimates of heritability for ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer were 40%, 56%, and 52%, respectively. There was a significant genetic correlation between ovarian and breast cancer (R12 = .484). Evidence for significant genetic overlap between endometrial cancer and either ovarian or breast cancer was not found. These results suggest the existence of a familial breast/ovarian cancer syndrome. Endometrial cancer, while heritable, appears to be genetically unrelated. 
Concomitant whole-abdominal radiation and intraperitoneal chemotherapy in advanced ovarian carcinoma. A pilot study. Because the use of cisplatin-based chemotherapy for ovarian carcinoma has not significantly improved 5-year survival rates compared with either whole-abdominal radiation (WAR) or single-agent chemotherapy, a pilot study was begun to assess the feasibility of concomitant radiation and chemotherapy. Eleven previously untreated patients with Stages III and IV ovarian carcinoma were treated concomitantly with 2000 cGy of WAR and intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin followed by additional IP cisplatin after debulking surgery. Toxicity was moderate to severe. Sixty-four percent of patients had Grades 3 to 4 hematologic toxicity, and 36% required hospitalization for sepsis during WAR/IP cisplatin. Hematologic toxicity was less pronounced during IP cisplatin alone. All patients experienced moderate gastrointestinal toxicity. The average percentage of total body weight lost was 13.5%. Fifty-five percent of all patients demonstrated a complete clinical response to therapy, and patients with minimal postoperative residual disease fared better. One patient with persistent disease had acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) 24 months after initial diagnosis. No patients with residual disease greater than 20 mm survived, while 50% of patients with less than 20 mm are clinically free of disease. Toxicity appears to be additive with the combination of WAR and IP cisplatin. Therapeutic efficacy was comparable with standard chemotherapy regimens, but no therapeutic or survival advantages were demonstrated with the use of this treatment protocol. 
Chagas' heart disease in the United States. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Chagas' heart disease is believed to be rare in the United States, although many persons from countries where the disease is endemic reside here. We performed a retrospective case review and prospective follow-up of 25 patients with Chagas' heart disease and no obstructive coronary artery disease on angiography. RESULTS. The patients mainly presented with symptomatic atrioventricular block, congestive heart failure, anginal chest pain, sudden death averted by resuscitation, or sustained ventricular tachycardia. Of the 25 patients, 18 had been treated for coronary artery disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy for up to 108 months before the diagnosis of Chagas' disease was considered. The electrocardiograms frequently suggested coronary artery disease. Six of the seven patients who had exercise thallium-perfusion scans had abnormalities suggesting ischemia or infarction. A left ventricular aneurysm was found in 14 of the 25 patients, segmental akinesia or hypokinesia in 5, and diffuse hypokinesia in 3. Programmed ventricular stimulation performed in 13 patients induced sustained ventricular tachycardia in 9 and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 2. Actuarial survival (mean +/- SE) after four years for the entire group was 56 +/- 12 percent; it was 32 +/- 16 percent among those with global left ventricular dysfunction, and 78 +/- 14 percent among those without such dysfunction (P = 0.03). Only patients with left ventricular dysfunction or an aneurysm died (four-year survival, 45 +/- 14 percent, as compared with 100 percent for the remaining patients; P = 0.0002). Heart failure and left ventricular aneurysm or dysfunction were the only independent predictors of death. Nine patients required permanent pacemakers. CONCLUSIONS. In the United States, Chagas' heart disease commonly mimics coronary artery disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The prognosis is poor for patients with heart failure or left ventricular aneurysm or dysfunction. The disease may be underdiagnosed in the United States. 
Effect of thrombolysis on the evolution of late potentials within 10 days of infarction. Patients with late potentials in the signal averaged electrocardiogram are more at risk of lethal arrhythmias in the period after acute myocardial infarction. To test the effects of thrombolysis on the incidence and evolution of late potentials, 158 consecutive patients were prospectively studied during the first 10 days after acute myocardial infarction. The study population consisted of two groups: 93 control patients treated conservatively and 65 patients treated with intravenous thrombolysis. Recordings of signal averaged electrocardiogram were obtained within two days and 7-10 days after infarction. The incidence of late potentials in the first two days after infarction was not significantly different in the thrombolytic and control groups (14% v 11.8%). By 7-10 days the incidence of late potentials among patients who underwent thrombolysis remained unchanged (14%); however, it increased significantly in the control group (11.8% to 22.5%). Thus thrombolysis seems to reduce the evolution of late potentials within 10 days of infarction. Because the risk of fatal arrhythmias is higher in patients with late potentials this study may partly explain the reduced mortality after thrombolysis. 
The persistence of symptoms in patients with globus pharyngis. A follow-up study of 104 patients with globus sensation was performed by postal questionnaire. All were asked to complete the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQ) and a 12-item Throat Symptom Questionnaire. Seventy-two of these patients were sent a follow-up General Health Questionnaire (GHQ). Replies were received from 89 patients (86%), 68 females and 21 males, a mean of 31 months after initial presentation. The feeling of something stuck in the throat had disappeared completely in 27% of patients, but only 4% were never aware of the throat. Throat symptoms showed a reduction with increasing age, but not with increasing interval since presentation. The 15 patients initially treated with antacid therapy had significantly greater dyspepsia scores at review than untreated patients, but no other difference was found between the two groups. GHQ scores showed a small but significant reduction over time. Of EPQ parameters, only the lower lie score in female patients showed any significant difference on repeat testing. Those with persistently high throat scores had significantly lower EPQ lie scores and a trend towards higher GHQ scores at follow-up. None of the psychological parameters measured at the first interview was found to be of prognostic significance. We conclude that, although there is a reduction in occult psychiatric morbidity in patients with the globus sensation over time, underlying personality traits remain stable and that there is a remarkable persistence of pharyngeal symptoms. 
Risks associated with an elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level. Among 58,187 women tested, 1002 had a maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein measuring greater than or equal to 2.5 multiples of the median after correction for race, weight, and insulin-dependent diabetes. They were stratified into three groups: group 1, 2.5 to 2.9; group 2, 3.0 to 5.0; group 3, greater than or equal to 5.0 multiples of the median. The initial risk of a serious abnormality detected by ultrasonography or amniocentesis was 17% (5%, 12% and 65% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively). After correction for twins and dates, this risk became 23% (7%, 18%, and 71% in groups, 1, 2, and 3, respectively). Among the women with high maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels, 556 (77%) had normal ultrasonographic and amniocentesis studies, and the risk of adverse pregnancy outcome ws 27% (19%, 29%, and 70% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively). There was a statistically significant increase in late fetal and perinatal death, prematurity and growth retardation, oligohydramnios, abruptio placentae, preeclampsia, and congenital abnormalities. The overall risk for abnormality or adverse outcome was 24% in group 1, 41% in group 2, and 91% in group 3. 
Epidemiologic correlates of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We evaluated 74 selected patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 201 matched controls for risk factors for ALS by a case-control design and a sequential questionnaire/interview technique to quantitate biographic data. We analyzed occupational and recreational data only for 47 male patients and 47 corresponding patient controls; data for women were insufficient. We used nonparametric analyses to evaluate five primary comparisons of ALS patients with controls: (1) more hard physical labor, p not significant (NS); (2) greater frequency of neurodegenerative disease in family members, p NS; (3) greater exposure to lead, p less than 0.05; (4) more years lived in a rural community, p NS; and (5) more trauma or major surgery, p NS. Men with ALS had worked more frequently at blue-collar jobs (although not a statistically significant difference, p = 0.10) and at welding or soldering (p less than 0.01). These results suggest that there may be an association between ALS in men and exposure to lead vapor. The limited nature of the association favors a multifactorial etiologic mechanism of ALS. 
Catechol metabolites in the cerebrospinal fluid as possible markers in the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. This paper is a preliminary report of work aiming to elucidate the possible use of 5-S-cysteinyl metabolites of catechols in the cerebrospinal fluid as markers in the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The rationale for this approach is the hypothesis that this disorder is caused by a failure of antioxidative mechanisms to prevent the excessive autoxidation of dopamine and other catechols that yields highly reactive and cytotoxic semiquinones and quinones. 5-S-cysteinyl adducts of these quinones have been detected in human brains, analyzed postmortem, and appear to be formed at an increased rate in elderly individuals, who show an increased loss of dopaminergic neurons. 
Shortlasting, unilateral, neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection, tearing, and subclinical forehead sweating ("Sunct" syndrome): II. Changes in heart rate and arterial blood pressure during pain paroxysms. The recently described "Sunct" syndrome is a rare picture of unilateral, shortlasting headache attacks accompanied by autonomic phenomena (conjunctival injection, tearing, etc.) on the symptomatic side. Heart rate and blood pressure were monitored in two elderly "Sunct" patients during and outside headache attacks. An ultrasound Doppler servo method was used for the non-invasive, continuous, beat-to-beat determination of instantaneous arterial blood pressure. In a third patient, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, both outside and during pain paroxysms, were assessed using the standard Korotkoff method. Heart rate was found to be significantly decreased during pain paroxysms. Systolic blood pressure was observed to be significantly increased during attacks, when compared with the inter-attack period, while a less consistent pattern was observed for diastolic blood pressure. Some of the changes in the cardiovascular system seemed to start prior to pain onset. Therefore, it seems unlikely that these changes were caused by pain activation of the sympathetic nervous system or the oculocardiac reflex. 
Dementia presenting with aphasia: clinical characteristics. Dementia, a disorder of multiple cognitive functions, may atypically present as an aphasia. The clinical characteristics are reported of 13 patients with up to 14 years of progressive language impairment before developing dementia. In reviewing the literature, it was found that these patients were similar to those reported with progressive aphasia. It is concluded that dementia may present with an anomic, dysfluent language disorder due to the focal left sylvian onset of several dementing illnesses. 
Hypertrophy of nodules of Arantius and aortic insufficiency: pathophysiology and repair. Aortic insufficiency (AI) due to fibrosis and thickening of the nodules of Arantius in the otherwise normal aortic valve was found in 11 adults (age range, 41 to 65 years) between 1976 and 1988. Nine had concomitant mitral stenosis; 2 had coronary artery disease. In 6 patients AI was graded 3+ or greater; in 5 it was less than 3+. Correction of AI and restoration of cuspid flexibility and apposition by shaving the hypertrophied nodules was accomplished in all, with postrepair AI graded as 1+ or less. There was one hospital death, a patient who had prior mitral operation. Mean follow-up was 68 +/- 56 months. Only 1 patient had late (6 years) recurrent serious (3+) AI. Nine continued to have 1+ or less AI, based on echocardiography or catheterization (n = 6) or on physical examination performed at a mean of 74 months. We conclude that thickening of the nodules of Arantius may cause AI. Long-term correction can be accomplished by sculpturing of the involved cusps. 
Seasonal variations in fibrinogen concentrations among elderly people. Mortality and morbidity in elderly people are higher in winter than in summer months, with seasonal variations in rates of both fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke. To identify factors that might contribute to the excess winter frequency of cardiovascular disease in the elderly, we studied 100 subjects aged 75 and over who lived in either their own homes or in sheltered or residential accommodation. Each person was visited each month for one year, body and environmental temperatures were noted, and cardiovascular risk factors were measured. 32 subjects withdrew from the study. Significant seasonal effects were found for fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, and HDL cholesterol (p less than 0.003, Bonferroni adjustment). Plasma fibrinogen concentrations showed the greatest seasonal change and were 23% higher in the coldest six months compared with summer months. Fibrinogen was significantly (p less than 0.05) and negatively related to core body temperature and all measures of environmental temperature. Those living in institutions had greater changes in plasma fibrinogen than those living in the community. The seasonal variation in plasma fibrinogen concentration is large enough to increase the risk of both myocardial infarction and stroke in winter. 
Role of neurohumoral systems for pressure induced left ventricular hypertrophy in experimental supravalvular aortic stenosis in rats. We studied the role of the sympathetic nervous system and the renin angiotensin system for pressure induced left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in 135 rats with experimental supravalvular aortic stenosis (AS). We induced this condition by a silver clip on the ascending aorta, when body weight (BW) was 90 to 100 g. Sympathectomy by 6-OH-dopamine reduced LV norepinephrine content to less than 5%. The renin-angiotensin system was blocked by quinapril, which reduced serum angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity to less than 5%. Aortic stenosis (LV peak systolic pressure 212 +/- 10 mm Hg) induced significant LVH with an increase of LV weight from 198 +/- 3 (sham) to 266 +/- 6 after 6 weeks and to 303 +/- 13 mg/100 g body weight after 12 weeks. Sympathectomy did not reduce LVH 6 weeks after induction of AS (260 +/- 6 mg/100 g body weight). Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition initiated immediately after induction of AS did not alter the increase of LV mass after 6 weeks (250 +/- 7 mg/100 g body weight). Removing the silver clip 6 weeks after induction of AS resulted in a 90% regression of LVH after 6 more weeks. When ACE-inhibition was started after 6 weeks--ie, once LVH had developed--and maintained for another 6 weeks, an 80% regression of LVH was observed despite the persistent afterload elevation. Our findings of an afterload independent regression of LVH by ACE-inhibition emphasize an important role of the renin angiotensin system for the maintenance of pressure induced LVH. 
Acute non-A, non-B hepatitis in a hospital population in Warsaw, Poland: clinical and epidemiological aspects. In the years 1986-1988, 530 consecutive cases of acute viral hepatitis were admitted to an infectious disease hospital in Warsaw. Hepatitis A was diagnosed in 34 cases (6.4%), hepatitis B in 436 (82.3%), CMV infection in five (0.9%), and 55 cases (10.4%) were classified as hepatitis non-A, non-B. In 47 cases (85%) of non-A, non-B hepatitis, there was evidence of parenteral transmission, whereas in eight (15%), the source of infection was unknown. Chronic liver disease developed in 50% of patients with parenteral exposure, but there were no cases with known exposure. Seroconversion to anti-HCV was observed only in patients with parenteral exposure, and 60% of followed up cases developed antibodies within 6 months. 
Abdominal abscess due to Cardiobacterium hominis and Clostridium bifermentans. A case of abdominal abscess and bacteremia due to Cardiobacterium hominis and Clostridium bifermentans was successfully treated with surgical drainage and ampicillin-penicillin. This case represents the rare occurrence of C. hominis infection without apparent endocarditis. 
9-[(2RS)-3-fluoro-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl] derivatives of purines: a class of highly selective antiretroviral agents in vitro and in vivo. A new class of compounds, 9-[(2RS)-3-fluoro-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl] [(RS)-FPMP] derivatives of purines, is described that has selective activity against a broad spectrum of retroviruses [including human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and type 2 (HIV-2)] but not other RNA or DNA viruses. This activity spectrum is completely different from that of the parental compounds, 9-[(2S)-3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl] [(S)-HPMP] derivatives of purines, which are active against a broad range of DNA viruses. The racemic (RS)-FPMP derivatives of adenine and 2,6-diaminopurine, termed (RS)-FPMPA and (RS)-FPMPDAP, respectively, are markedly more selective as in vitro antiretroviral agents than their 9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl) (PME) counterparts, PMEA and PMEDAP. Also, (RS)-FPMPA and (RS)-FPMPDAP have a substantially higher therapeutic index in mice in inhibiting Moloney murine sarcoma virus-induced tumor formation and associated death and are markedly less inhibitory to human bone marrow cells than PMEA and PMEDAP. The diphosphate derivative of (RS)-FPMPA [(RS)-FPMPApp] is a potent and selective inhibitor of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase but not of HSV-1 DNA polymerase or DNA polymerase alpha. (RS)-FPMPApp, akin to PMEA diphosphate (PMEApp), acts as a DNA chain terminator. The DNA chain-terminating properties of PMEApp and (RS)-FPMPApp seem to be a prerequisite for acyclic nucleoside phosphonates to exhibit antiretrovirus (i.e., anti-HIV) activity. 
The contribution of salvage surgery to the management of childhood osteosarcoma. Between January 1970 and December 1988, 174 consecutive patients under the age of 20 years with curatively resected primary osteosarcoma were treated at our institute; 72 in the years of 1970 to 1981 and 102 in the years 1982 to 1988. In the latter period, adjuvant chemotherapy was replaced by neoadjuvant programs, and new criteria were adopted for the management of lung metastases, consisting in early bilateral surgical staging and lung resection through median sternotomy for all patients with purely intrathoracic relapse. Follow-up was updated in December 1989. During the last period, the overall 5-year survival improved significantly from 35% to 58% (P less than .001). The disease-free survival rose from 38% to 45% at 5 years, with median values of 15 months versus 33 months, while the frequency of isolated lung metastases dropped from 58% to the actuarial 48%. The proportion of patients who underwent complete resections of their pulmonary metastases rose from 17% (seven of 42) to 55% (27 of 49), without operative mortality. Due to such a high proportion of patients eligible for salvage surgery, the overall survival from detection of lung metastases improved from 0% to 28% at 5 years (P less than .001). Contralateral occult metastases were resected in three of 15 subjects with monolateral clinical lesions, and five patients underwent subsequent lung resections. These data indicate that systematic bilateral pulmonary resection plays an important role in improving the final cure rate of childhood osteosarcoma, beyond the benefit resulting from neoadjuvant chemotherapy. 
Antiperistaltic and isoperistaltic intussusception associated with abnormal motility after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass: a case report. Antiperistaltic and recurrent intussusceptions are extremely rare in the adult. We report a patient with both. The patient developed an antiperistaltic intussusception distal to her Roux enteroenterostomy years after a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass for morbid obesity. The diagnosis was made preoperatively with gastrointestinal contrast radiography and ultrasonography. At surgery, the intussusception was reduced, and 12 inches of nonviable bowel was resected, with a functional end-to-end anastomosis. An isoperistaltic intussusception occurred in the early postoperative period just distal to the anastomosis. Manometric evaluation of the Roux limb after the second operation showed altered gastrointestinal motility, consisting of orad-propagated and aboard-propagated migrating motor complexes, minimal phase 2 activity, and lack of conversion to the fed pattern with a liquid meal. Although manometry was not performed before the development of the intussusception, our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that altered intestinal motility may contribute to the development of intussusception. 
Controlled clinical trials of drug treatment for hypertension. A review. We reviewed the designs and major results of 17 large-scale, controlled, clinical trials that reported the effects of drug treatment for hypertension on morbidity or mortality. Seven trials conducted in study populations with more-severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressures 100-120 mm Hg or higher), including the more-severe stratum of the Veterans Administration Trial, showed large reductions in stroke, other "hypertensive" events, and, in one trial, total mortality. Of 11 trials in populations with less-severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressures predominantly below 105 mm Hg), including the less-severe stratum of the Veterans Administration Trial, nine met the criteria for pooling of results. Among the aggregate 43,000 patients in the nine trials who were followed up for an average of 5.6 years, mean diastolic blood pressure reduction was 5.8 mm Hg, and a significant 11% reduction in total mortality was observed. This benefit was largely attributable to a 38% reduction in fatal strokes; nonfatal strokes were similarly reduced. Coronary heart disease mortality was 8% lower in drug treatment than in control groups, but this difference was not significant. A similar result was observed for combined coronary mortality and nonfatal myocardial infarction. A possible explanation for the inconclusive result regarding coronary end points was an adverse trend, observed in several trials, in a subgroup with baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities. Because all the trials except the propranolol arm of the Medical Research Council trial used drug regimens based on thiazide-like diuretic agents, and because there are now several new drug classes proposed as initial therapy, additional large-scale clinical trials may need to be considered. 
Risk factors for febrile seizures in the People's Republic of China: a case control study. A case control study was conducted to investigate the association of family history of febrile seizures (FS) and history of maternal, pregnancy and delivery, and postnatal factors with FS. Information was gathered by door-to-door survey in six major cities in the People's Republic of China. Factors present before the date of onset of FS were assessed in 182 subjects and in an equal number of controls matched for age, sex, and geographic area. The odds ratio for risk of FS in children with a family history of FS in a first-degree relative was 10.0 (confidence interval 2.7-58.6), confirming other observations that familial factors are an important predisposing characteristic for FS. Maternal acute respiratory infection during the first trimester of pregnancy was slightly more frequent in children with FS (odds ratio, 1.9 confidence interval 1.0-3.9). None of the other examined pregnancy or delivery factors was associated with an increased risk, suggesting that birth history is not an important factor predisposing to FS. 
Risks associated with an elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level. Among 58,187 women tested, 1002 had a maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein measuring greater than or equal to 2.5 multiples of the median after correction for race, weight, and insulin-dependent diabetes. They were stratified into three groups: group 1, 2.5 to 2.9; group 2, 3.0 to 5.0; group 3, greater than or equal to 5.0 multiples of the median. The initial risk of a serious abnormality detected by ultrasonography or amniocentesis was 17% (5%, 12% and 65% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively). After correction for twins and dates, this risk became 23% (7%, 18%, and 71% in groups, 1, 2, and 3, respectively). Among the women with high maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels, 556 (77%) had normal ultrasonographic and amniocentesis studies, and the risk of adverse pregnancy outcome ws 27% (19%, 29%, and 70% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively). There was a statistically significant increase in late fetal and perinatal death, prematurity and growth retardation, oligohydramnios, abruptio placentae, preeclampsia, and congenital abnormalities. The overall risk for abnormality or adverse outcome was 24% in group 1, 41% in group 2, and 91% in group 3. 
Mentally retarded individuals--a population at risk? When comparing the aging process of mentally retarded (MR) persons with the nondisabled population, researchers have established an earlier lower limit for the onset of old age for MR persons and a higher mortality rate. The reason for early senescence has not been successfully resolved, but the finding that cardiovascular disorders are the most prevalent form of disease among elderly MR persons suggests a relationship between lifestyles and higher mortality rate. Indeed, studies that evaluated the cardiovascular fitness (CVF) of MR individuals demonstrated substandard levels of fitness. The results of these studies, however, are not conclusive due to variation in test methodologies, motivational factors, and issues of test validity and reliability. Training studies which have purported to determine trainability of this population have also shown confusing results, perhaps attributed to the same protocol inconsistencies. Therefore, the purposes of this article are 1) to review previous methods of evaluating CVF of MR adults and determine whether testing methodologies invalidate the results of these studies, 2) to review training studies involving adult MR individuals and determine whether this population is capable of improving their CVF, and 3) to identify areas where further research is needed to fully describe the functional cardiovascular characteristics of MR adults. 
Accordion effect in tortuous right coronary arteries during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Coronary spasm and intimal dissection are well-known complications of coronary angioplasty with potentially serious consequences. Their treatments are different and need to be instituted quickly to prevent vessel closure. We report two cases of mechanical deformation caused by the angioplasty hardware masquerading as dissection or spasm during coronary angioplasty of tortuous native right coronary arteries. 
A technique to accurately construct a contact dressing. We describe a technique to rapidly and accurately construct the contact layer of a composite dressing. This technique is simple to perform and is suitable for any open wound. It is especially useful for moderately sized wounds created during extirpation of tumors by Mohs micrographic surgery. 
Preperitoneal approach for hernia repair: clinical application in pediatric urology. The preperitoneal approach for inguinal hernia repair rarely is indicated in children. However, we report on its clinical usefulness for children in whom the perivesical space must be exposed, such as during surgical repair of bladder exstrophy, ureterocele and ureteral reimplantation. This approach allows for a true high ligation of the hernia sac, and the repair is safe, fast and effective. 
Colon perforation during colonoscopy: surgical versus conservative management. A survey of endoscopy units in the West Midlands, UK, was undertaken to ascertain the management of colonic perforation during colonoscopy. Fifteen perforations were reported from a total of 17,500 colonoscopies performed in 14 units (a rate of 0.09 per cent). In seven patients the diagnosis was suspected or diagnosed immediately and in the remaining eight 2-72 h later. Four patients with associated pathology (carcinoma, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and a polyp) had resection and primary anastomosis. Seven patients had a simple oversew, four of these having had a delayed diagnosis. In four cases the site of perforation was not identified, but only one patient had conservative treatment. Three patients had drainage and a defunctioning colostomy. There was no significant morbidity following treatment. It is recommended that patients who have had a good bowel preparation should be treated conservatively unless there is a large perforation or an underlying carcinoma. 
Pathologic correlates of survival in 378 lymph node-negative infiltrating ductal breast carcinomas. Mitotic count is the best single predictor. Pathologic features of 378 breast carcinomas without axillary lymph node metastases were correlated with long-term prognosis. Mitotic count, the feature best predicting prognosis, was most useful at lower mitotic count levels than usually studied. Cases with less than 4.5 mitotic figures per ten high-power fields had a 20-year tumor-related survival of 73% versus 48% for those with higher mitotic counts. Low and high mitotic count groups had significantly different prognoses for T1c, T2, and T3 tumors. Multivariate analysis showed that the best combination of features predicting tumor-related death were high mitotic count (relative risk, x 2.8), large tumor size (relative risk, x 1.7), lymphatic invasion (relative risk, x 1.7), and skin or subjacent muscle or chest wall invasion (relative risk, x 2.5). Nuclear grade, Bloom-Richardson grade, modified Scarff-Bloom-Richardson grade, Fisher's grade, and necrosis correlated well with survival but had no significant additional predictive value when adjusted for the mitotic count. 
Isolation of group 2 aerotolerant Campylobacter species from Thai children with diarrhea. Campylobacter species were isolated from 93 (15%) of 631 Thai children with diarrhea using the membrane filter technique on nonselective blood agar incubated at 37 degrees C. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from 62 (10%), Campylobacter coli from 14 (2%), and atypical campylobacters from 17 (3%). The 17 atypical strains were first characterized biochemically and by dot blot DNA hybridization. Catalase-negative strains also were characterized by DNA hybridization and ribotype pattern. One strain was a catalase-negative "Campylobacter upsaliensis" and another was a nitrate-negative Campylobacter jejuni doylei. Fifteen isolates were aerotolerant strains most closely resembling Campylobacter cryaerophila or "C. upsaliensis" by dot hybridization. These aerotolerant strains, designated group 2 ("Campylobacter butzleri"), had ribotypes distinct from C. cryaerophila and have previously been shown to be related by DNA hybridization at the species level to the group 2 aerotolerant Campylobacter type strain (D2686). Group 2 aerotolerant Campylobacter were the atypical Campylobacter species most frequently isolated from Thai children with diarrhea. 
Limb vascular responsiveness to beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation in patients with congestive heart failure. BACKGROUND. In patients with congestive heart failure, the chronotropic and inotropic responses to beta-adrenergic agonists are reduced. It is not known whether desensitization of peripheral beta-adrenoceptors accounts for impaired limb vasodilation in these patients. Accordingly, we studied 14 normal subjects and 13 age-matched patients with congestive heart failure. METHODS AND RESULTS. To distinguish vasodilation mediated by beta-adrenoceptors and adenylate cyclase from that mediated by stimulation of guanylate cyclase, each subject received intrabrachial artery infusions of isoproterenol (1-100 ng/min) and sodium nitroprusside (0.3-10 micrograms/min), respectively. Forearm blood flow was determined by venous occlusion plethysmography. Maximal vasodilative potential, determined during reactive hyperemia, was reduced in the patients with congestive heart failure. The maximal forearm blood flow response to isoproterenol was comparable in patients with heart failure and in normal subjects (8.0 +/- 1.1 versus 9.2 +/- 1.2 ml/100 ml of tissue/min, respectively, p = NS). Furthermore, the dose-response relation to isoproterenol was similar in both groups. Likewise, the forearm vasodilative response to sodium nitroprusside was preserved in the heart failure group. Plasma concentration of norepinephrine was higher in the patients with heart failure (436 +/- 34 versus 201 +/- 74 pg/ml, p less than 0.01). When both groups were considered, there was no correlation between norepinephrine levels and the maximal forearm blood flow response to isoproterenol (r = 0.10, p = NS). CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that beta-adrenoceptor desensitization does not occur in the limb vessels of patients with congestive heart failure. 
Induction of transformational changes in normal endothelial cells by cultured human astrocytoma cells. Endothelial cell proliferation is a significant biological feature of malignant astrocytomas. The ability of the cells of these tumors to elaborate mitogenic angiogenesis factors has been well documented. However, less is known about the transformational effects that neoplastic astrocytes may have on the endothelial cells within malignant astrocytomas. In this study, the hypothesis that humoral factors elaborated by cells derived from malignant astrocytomas induce transformational changes in normal endothelial cells in vitro is investigated. Conditioned medium (CM) was prepared from exponentially growing cultures of a human glioblastoma cell line (UW18) and from two rat brain-tumor cell lines: an anaplastic astrocytoma (R175A) and a glioblastoma with sarcomatous elements (9L). Subconfluent target bovine aortic arch endothelial cells (BAEC's) were exposed for 48 hours to varying concentrations of CM prepared from each of these tumors, and then evaluated for transformational changes. Different molecular weight (MW) fractions of UW18 CM were prepared by molecular ultrafiltration, and each fraction was tested for transforming activity. Transformation endpoints included changes in cellular deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) content and distribution (measured by differential flow cytometry) and changes in de novo DNA synthesis determined by 3H-thymidine incorporation. Significant changes in the amount and distribution of DNA and RNA were observed in the BAEC's treated with UW18 CM compared to untreated BAEC's. At 10% concentrations of UW18 CM, changes in the RNA profile of target BAEC's were evident, and at 30% concentrations of UW18 CM, an irregular bimodal distribution was well established. Patterns of DNA were also altered in a concentration-dependent manner, with significant aneuploidy developing at UW18 CM concentrations of 20%. The DNA synthesis in BAEC's increased with increasing CM concentrations, up to a maximum of about 250% of control values at 30% concentrations of UW18 CM. The transformational changes induced after exposure of BAEC's to CM prepared from R175A and 9L were significantly less than those observed with UW18 CM. Molecular ultrafiltration was used to prepare UW18 CM fractions with MW cutoffs of less than 10 kD, 10 to 30 kD, and greater than 30 kD. Transformational activity was significant only in CM's with an MW of 10 to 30 kD. It is concluded that the UW18 human glioblastoma cell line elaborates a soluble factor, or group of factors, with an MW in the 10- to 30-kD range, capable of inducing transformational alterations in target normal endothelial cells, and that such transformation may account for some of the abnormal endothelial cell changes associated with malignant astrocytomas. 
Malignant peritoneal mesothelioma in childhood with long-term survival. A diffuse, well-differentiated, malignant peritoneal mesothelioma (MPM) developed in a nine-year-old girl. She received limited chemotherapy and radiation therapy and is alive and well without clinical evidence of disease 109 months after diagnosis. The neoplastic cells stained immunohistochemically for cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen but were unreactive with B72.3, anti-carcinoembryonic antigen, and anti-Leu-M1. Ultrastructurally, the tumor cells had abundant desmosomes, numerous tonofilament bundles, and variable-length microvilli. These findings confirm the mesothelial nature of the cells. Features consistent with malignancy included DNA aneuploidy by flow cytometric analysis and diffuse peritoneal involvement. The three previously described survivors with MPM were also premenarchal girls. Some MPMs in premenarchal girls have an indolent biologic behavior similar to that of low-grade peritoneal serous neoplasia or well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma in adult women. 
t-PA, PAI, and protein C before and after vascular occlusion of the upper limb in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon. Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) and its inhibitor (PAI) were assessed in venous blood drawn before and after venous occlusion (bvo, avo) for 33 patients with Raynaud's phenomenon (RP), 14 with primary RP (PRP), 9 with suspected secondary RP (SSRP), and 10 with definite collagen disease and secondary RP (SRP). There were significant differences in PAI values avo between PRP (and controls), SSRP, and SRP. PAI activity decreased significantly avo only in controls and in PRP, and there was significant t-PA antigen elevation avo in the same groups. In addition, since PAI is neutralized by activated protein C (PC), both PC antigen and PC activity were assessed avo and bvo. PC Ag remained unchanged in all groups, with PC activity significantly lower than controls in SRP and SSRP. Finally the authors looked for interference of anticardiolipin antibodies (ACA) and lupus-like anticoagulant (LAC) with the PC system in collagen disease-associated RP. Specific IgG ACA were found in only 1 patient with SRP. In conclusion, there is an endothelial derangement, involving t-PA release and PAI, in SSRP and SRP patients. The reduced PC activity in these latter groups appears to be due to increased PAI influence rather than to ACA/LAC. 
Blood and bone marrow eosinophilia in malignant tumors. Role and nature of blood and tissue eosinophil colony-stimulating factor(s) in two patients. Eosinophilia of the blood and bone marrow may be encountered in patients with disseminated malignancies. It is unrelated to the histologic type of the tumor but usually reflects its aggressiveness and prognostic outlook. Its pathogenesis is controversial. The presence of eosinophil colony-stimulating factor(s) in serum and malignant tissue extracts was evaluated in two cases of malignancies accompanied by marked blood and bone marrow eosinophilia. When compared with controls, serum and tumor tissue extracts stimulated the growth of G, M, and Eo colonies in semisolid cultures of human bone marrow. Such stimulating effect was inhibited by the addition of antibodies to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin-3. Thus, the colony-stimulating factor(s) play a role in the pathogenesis of the eosinophilia associated with some malignant tumors, and these factors appear to include GM-CSF, interleukin-3, and probably others. 
Determination of postmortem interval by arthropod succession: a case study from the Hawaiian Islands. A postmortem interval of 34 to 36 days was established for remains recovered on the island of Oahu, Hawaii, based on interpretations of patterns of arthropod succession on the remains. This interval was primarily based on the presence of adult specimens of Philonthus longicornis (family Staphylinidae), mature larvae of Piophila casei (family Piophilidae), and empty puparial cases of Chrysomya rufifacies (family Calliphoridae). Species and developmental stages of two additional Coleoptera species and three additional Diptera species were also present, which was consistent with the estimated interval, although not definitive. 
Patients admitted to the emergency room with symptoms indicative of acute myocardial infarction. All 7157 patients (55% men) admitted to the emergency room with chest pain or other symptoms indicative of acute myocardial infarction during a period of 21 months were registered consecutively. Chest pain was reported by 93% of the patients. On the basis of history, clinical examination, and electrocardiogram in the emergency room, all patients were prospectively classified in one of four categories: (i) obvious infarction (4% of all patients); (ii) strongly suspected infarction (20%); (iii) vague suspicion of infarction (35%); and (iv) no suspected infarction (41%). In patients with no suspected infarction (n = 2910), musculoskeletal (26%), obscure (21%) and psychogenic origins (16%) of the symptoms occurred most frequently. We conclude that few of the patients had an obvious infarction on admission, and that a musculoskeletal origin of the symptoms occurred most frequently in patients with no suspected infarction. 
Enteroscopic diagnosis of small bowel ulceration in patients receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 15 patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and who had chronic occult gastrointestinal bleeding underwent extended small bowel examination with a Sonde enteroscope. 7 patients (47%) were found to have jejunal or ileal ulceration. Small bowel enteroscopy may be a valuable technique for the investigation of undiagnosed gastrointestinal bleeding. 
Chromosomal origin of small ring marker chromosomes in man: characterization by molecular genetics [published erratum appears in Am J Hum Genet 1991 Aug;49(2):503] Ten cases of small ring chromosomes which did not stain with distamycinA/DAPI and did not possess satellite regions associated with nucleolus-organizing regions are described. In situ hybridization with a battery of biotinylated pericentric repeat probes specific either for individual chromosomes or for groups of chromosomes allowed the identification of the chromosomal origin of these marker chromosomes. There was one example of a marker derived from each of chromosomes 1, 3, 6, 14, 16, 18, 20, 13 or 21, and the X, and there were two examples of markers derived from chromosome 12. One case possessed two markers, one derived from chromosome 6, and one derived from the X. The mechanism of generation of ring marker chromosomes is discussed. Five of seven cases who could be phenotypically assessed were abnormal. Three of these--the first with a ring chromosome derived from chromosome 1; the second with two markers, one derived from chromosome 6 and the other from the X chromosome; and the third with a ring chromosome derived from chromosome 20--each possessed distinctive facies. Additional cases with identified rings may allow the delineation of new chromosomal syndromes. 
Ependymoma: internal correlations among pathological signs: the anaplastic variant. In a series of 298 cases of ependymoma, survival analysis identified some prognostic histological factors but failed to demonstrate a worse survival for the anaplastic variant diagnosed with the common criteria used for assessing anaplasia in primitive brain tumors. This finding suggests that either anaplastic ependymoma does not exist, or that the established criteria are not useful in its identification. To solve these problems, the association of histological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural signs in 173 intracranial cases was investigated and analyzed by means of contingency tables. Many signs had only focal distribution. Some signs, meaningful for anaplasia, such as very high cell density and number of mitoses, were found to be associated, whereas other signs usually considered indicative of anaplasia, such as endothelial hyperplasia, glomeruli, and necrosers, were not. In addition, pseudorosettes, mesodermic areas, and incomplete formation of perivascular pseudorosettes were signs associated with very high cell density and number of mitoses. Distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, as well as other immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features, were not helpful, with the exception of microsettes found by electron microscopy. Our conclusion is that the anaplastic variant of ependymoma is recognizable only when some histological prognostic factors, such as cell density and number of mitoses, are maximally expressed. 
Longitudinal study of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in hypertensive pregnant women: deviations related to the development of superimposed preeclampsia. A prospective longitudinal study of 25 pregnant women (30 pregnancies) with chronic hypertension, a group prone to development of preeclampsia, was conducted to explore the relationship between the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and the development of superimposed preeclampsia. In women with chronic hypertension in whom preeclampsia did not develop (17 pregnancies), blood pressure decreased and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was stimulated, beginning in the first trimester and continuing throughout pregnancy as found previously in normotensive pregnant women (n = 58). Plasma estradiol and progesterone levels also increased progressively. In women with chronic hypertension in whom preeclampsia developed (13 pregnancies), blood pressure decreased and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was stimulated in the first trimester as in the other groups. However, later in pregnancy significant differences were observed. Blood pressure began to rise in the second trimester. Initially the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system remained stimulated, but in the early third trimester, when preeclampsia was diagnosed, plasma renin activity and urine aldosterone excretion decreased, and atrial natriuretic factor increased. These data provide information that may be useful in the recognition of superimposed preeclampsia, and in the investigation of its pathogenesis. 
Hypalgesic efficacy of acupuncture on experimental pain in man. Comparison of laser acupuncture and needle acupuncture. The analgesic effect of acupuncture on cutaneous heat stimuli of 43 degrees C has been evaluated in a controlled experimental study with healthy, informed volunteers. Laser acupuncture was administered to 39 probationers using a helium-neon laser under double-blind conditions. The point Hegu (L.I.4) and Jianqian (Extra.) on both sides were each irradiated for 1 min. Forty probationers were needled with stainless steel needles in the point Hegu (L.I.4) on both sides under single-blind conditions. Pain threshold was measured in terms of the time (in msec) that the probationers needed to perceive the cutaneous heat stimulus of 43 degrees C. The painful stimulus was generated by a computer-controlled standardized procedure. The Wilcoxon test was used for the statistical evaluation. Laser acupuncture did not change the pain threshold. Needle acupuncture did, however, increase the pain threshold compared with the initial value (alpha = 0.1%). The difference compared with the control group, where a placebo point was needled, was also significant (alpha = 5%). This controlled experimental study proves the analgesic effect of needle acupuncture on painful heat stimuli. Laser acupuncture had no effect on pain threshold in this study. 
Malignant biliary obstruction complicated by ascites: transjugular insertion of an expandable metallic endoprosthesis. Although the transjugular approach has long been used to provide safe access to the liver, it has not been used for placement of stents in biliary obstruction. The recent development of an expandable metallic endoprosthesis now makes this method more feasible. The case of a patient with malignant biliary obstruction complicated by ascites is presented herein. Palliation was achieved with an expandable biliary endoprosthesis placed by the transjugular-hepatic vein approach. 
Comparison of efficacy of automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator in patients older and younger than 65 years of age. PURPOSE: The efficacy of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) was compared in elderly patients and younger patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Clinical characteristics, surgical complications, and long-term survival rates were compared between the two age groups. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted of 54 elderly patients (greater than 65 years) and 79 younger patients (less than 65 years) who had had AICDs implanted for recurrent symptomatic ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation. RESULTS: In 85% of elderly patients and 78% of younger patients, coronary artery disease was the underlying disease (NS). The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 31.4 +/- 14.3% in the elderly patients and 35.7 +/- 17.6% in the younger patients (NS). Concomitant myocardial revascularization was performed in 37% of elderly patients and 29% of younger patients (NS); however, only 4% of elderly patients had concomitant left ventricular resection or cryoablation, compared with 15% of younger patients (p less than 0.001). Two patients in each age group died perioperatively (4% versus 3%, NS), and no significant difference in surgical morbidity or length of hospital stay following AICD implantation was noted between the age groups. In conjunction with AICD, elderly patients more commonly received antiarrhythmic drugs, with 54% of elderly patients taking amiodarone at the time of hospital discharge compared with 29% of the younger patients (p less than 0.008). In contrast, beta-blockers were more commonly used in younger patients (16% versus 2%, p less than 0.03). At a mean follow-up of 25 months, 11 (20%) elderly patients and 16 (20%) younger patients had died. Six deaths in elderly patients and five deaths in younger patients were classified as arrhythmic deaths (NS); however, only one younger patient and three elderly patients died suddenly (NS). Calculated survival curves demonstrated similar survival rates in the two age groups with approximately 90%, 87%, and 80% of the patients alive at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Theoretic survival curves calculated from appropriate AICD shocks demonstrated significantly lower survival compared with actual survival. CONCLUSION: It is concluded that AICD is a very effective treatment for life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and this benefit applies to elderly patients as well as younger patients. 
Helicobacter pylori: aggressor or innocent bystander? Helicobacter pylori seeks gastric mucosa, whether found in the stomach, duodenum, or Barrett's esophagus. Definitive diagnosis can be secured by appropriate stains of mucosal biopsies and culture, but the rapid urease test, breath isotope studies, and serologic testing are also useful. The frequency of colonization increases with advancing age, but infection occurs earlier in underdeveloped countries. Although the reservoir is uncertain, water or food transmission seems likely. There is sufficient evidence to assign an etiologic role to the bacteria in the causation of type B antral gastritis. H. pylori is found in areas of gastric metaplasia within the duodenum and is associated with duodenitis. Although acute infection leads to hypochlorhydria, chronic colonization has little effect on acid secretion. Studies have thus far failed to establish a convincing relationship between H. pylori and nonulcer dyspepsia, although the bacteria may play a role in selected patients. H. pylori is found in association with most idiopathic gastric and duodenal ulcers, but it is unclear as to whether the bacteria plays a causative or permissive role. The organism has a predilection for intercellular spaces and the mucous layer, thus affording relative isolation from luminally active antibiotics. Monotherapy with bismuth preparations transiently eliminates the bacteria, but recolonization is rapid, probably due to regrowth of sequestered organisms. A combination of metronidazole, bismuth, and tetracycline (or amoxicillin) affords the best eradication rate, but the potential side effects of this program should be considered. The present therapy of duodenal ulcer disease is effective and without significant risk. Treatment of H. pylori should be reserved for those patients who relapse on adequate maintenance therapy. If a safe and effective antibiotic becomes available, more frequent testing and earlier treatment intervention may become more attractive. H. pylori is probably an "innocent bystander" for most patients, but the bacteria may sufficiently impair the defenses of the antral and duodenal mucosa to facilitate the development and relapse of ulcer disease in subsets of patients. 
Wound infiltration of local anaesthetic after lower segment caesarean section. The analgesic efficacy of subcutaneous wound infiltration with 20 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine after elective lower segment section Caesarean section was studied in 28 patients in a double-blind randomised controlled manner using a patient-controlled analgesia system. The mean 24-hour morphine consumption of the placebo group and the bupivacaine group was similar (76 mg and 68 mg respectively). Analysis of the cumulative hourly morphine consumption failed to show any statistically significant differences between the groups. However, on a weight-adjusted basis statistically significant differences in morphine consumption were demonstrated, although these may not be clinically important. Subjective experiences of pain, nausea and drowsiness assessed by linear analogue scoring were similar in both groups. 
Temporal bone findings in a family with branchio-oto-renal syndrome (BOR). A family group with confirmed branchio-oto-renal (BOR) syndrome was investigated in this study. Computerized tomography of the temporal bones has demonstrated that the malformations of the inner ear consist of hypoplastic structural changes within the cochlea with reduced vertical diameters, and absent or hypoplastic semicircular canals and normal endolymphatic ducts. It is concluded that in the present cases, the Mondini malformation of the cochlea is not associated with the BOR syndrome. 
Mycosis fungoides and the Sezary syndrome: a review of pathogenesis, diagnosis, and therapy. Mycosis fungoides (MF) and the Sezary syndrome (SS) are non-Hodgkin's lymphomas with a T-cell phenotype, which have cutaneous involvement as their predominant feature. These disorders are becoming more common, and the patients are frequently being referred to medical oncologists for assistance in management. The development of advanced laboratory techniques, such as molecular genetics and cell-surface phenotyping, has greatly enhanced our understanding of their pathogenesis and may lead to identification of responsible etiologic factors. A myriad of treatment options have been investigated including topical approaches, systemic chemotherapy, and external radiation. Currently, extensive trials are underway examining the potential benefits of agents such as the interferons, interleukin-2, monoclonal antibodies, the retinoids, 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, and other novel biologic response modifiers or chemotherapeutics. Although all these therapies have benefit in phase II trials, few randomized comparative trials have been performed to identify optimal therapies. Performance of such trials should now become a priority. 
Impact of impinging wall jet on color Doppler quantification of mitral regurgitation. BACKGROUND. In clinical color Doppler examinations, mitral regurgitant jets are often observed to impinge on the left atrial wall immediately beyond the mitral valve. In accordance with fluid dynamics theory, we hypothesized that a jet impinging on a wall would lose momentum more rapidly, undergo spatial distortion, and thus have a different observed jet area from that of a free jet with an identical flow rate. METHODS AND RESULTS. To test this hypothesis in vivo, we studied 44 patients with mitral regurgitation--30 with centrally directed free jets and 14 with eccentrically directed impinging wall jets. Maximal color jet areas (cm2) (with and without correction for left atrial size) were correlated with mitral regurgitant volumes, flow rates, and fractions derived from pulsed Doppler mitral and aortic forward flows. The groups were compared by analysis of covariance. Mean +/- SD mitral regurgitant fraction, regurgitant volume, and mean flow rate averaged 37 +/- 17%, 3.06 +/- 2.65 l/min, and 147 +/- 118 ml/sec, respectively. The maximal jet area from color Doppler imaging correlated relatively well with the mitral regurgitant fraction in the patients with free mitral regurgitant jets (r = 0.74, p less than 0.0001) but poorly in the patients with impinging wall jets (r = 0.42, p = NS). Although the mitral regurgitant fraction was larger (p less than 0.05) in patients with wall jets (44 +/- 20%) than in those with free jets (33 +/- 15%), the maximal jet area was significantly smaller (4.78 +/- 2.87 cm2 for wall jets versus 9.17 +/- 6.45 cm2 for free jets, p less than 0.01). For the same regurgitant fraction, wall jets were only approximately 40% of the size of a corresponding free jet, a difference confirmed by analysis of covariance (p less than 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS. Patients with mitral regurgitation frequently have jets that impinge on the left atrial wall close to the mitral valve. Such impinging wall jets are less predictable and usually have much smaller color Doppler areas in conventional echocardiographic views than do free jets of similar regurgitant severity. Jet morphology should be considered in the semiquantitative interpretation of mitral regurgitation by Doppler color flow mapping. Future studies of the three-dimensional morphology of wall jets may aid in their assessment. 
Malignant biliary obstruction: percutaneous use of self-expandable stents A total of 83 self-expandable metallic stents were placed percutaneously in 69 patients for palliation of malignant biliary obstruction. Stent diameter was 1 cm; length, 3.5-10.5 cm. Of the 41 patients with common bile duct obstruction, 27 died 0.2-12 months (median, 3.2 months) after stent insertion. Two patients developed recurrent jaundice and cholangitis after 6 and 12 months, respectively. One patient underwent reintervention. Fourteen patients were alive without jaundice 1-8 months (median, 6.3 months) after stent placement. Of the 28 patients with hilar lesions, 13 died 0.7-7.6 months (median, 4.3 months) after stent placement. Fifteen were alive 1-15.5 months (median, 8.1 months) afterward. Recurrent jaundice and cholangitis were seen in eight of the 28 patients (28%) after 1-6 months (median, 3.6 months). The cause of malfunction of the stent(s) was tumor ingrowth in one patient, tumor overgrowth at the proximal end in five patients, and overgrowth at the distal end in two patients. Reintervention was performed in five patients (18%). Stent-related complications were seen in four patients. 
Aneurysms of the intracavernous carotid artery: a multidisciplinary approach to treatment. Of 43 cavernous sinus aneurysms diagnosed over 6 1/2 years, 23 fulfilled indications for treatment; of these 19 were treated, eight surgically and 11 with interventional radiological techniques. Six small and two giant aneurysms were treated surgically: four were clipped, two were repaired primarily, and two were trapped with placement of a saphenous-vein bypass graft. Seven large and four giant aneurysms were treated with interventional radiological techniques: in five cases the proximal internal carotid artery (ICA) was sacrificed; one aneurysm was trapped with detachable balloons; and five were embolized with preservation of the ICA lumen. The mean follow-up period was 25 months. At follow-up examination, three patients in the surgical group were asymptomatic, two had improved, and three had worsened. Three of these patients had asymptomatic infarctions apparent on computerized tomography (CT) scans. At follow-up examination, four radiologically treated patients were asymptomatic, five had improved, two were unchanged, and none had worsened. One patient had asymptomatic and one minimally symptomatic infarction apparent on CT scans; both lesions were embolic foci after aneurysm embolization with preservation of the ICA. It is concluded that treatment risk depends more on the adequacy of collateral circulation than on the size of the aneurysm. A multidisciplinary treatment protocol for these aneurysms is described, dividing patients into high-, moderate-, and low-risk groups based on pretreatment evaluation of the risk of temporary or permanent ICA occlusion using a clinical balloon test occlusion coupled with an ICA-occluded stable xenon/CT cerebral blood flow study. Radiological techniques are suggested for most low-risk patients, while direct surgical techniques are proposed for most moderate- and high-risk patients. 
Lumbar disc surgery: results of the Prospective Lumbar Discectomy Study of the Joint Section on Disorders of the Spine and Peripheral Nerves of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons and the Congress of Neurological Surgeons. The Prospective Lumbar Discectomy Study enrolled 740 patients in a multiphysician, multicenter, consecutive patient protocol to evaluate the indications and efficacy of lumbar discectomy. Five hundred and thirteen patients could be evaluated at 3 months after surgery. Stepwise logistic regression showed that the factors of fraction of pain referred to the back, work-related injury, absence of back pain on straight leg-raise examination, correspondence of leg pain to typical radicular patterns, leg pain on straight leg-raise examination, and reflex asymmetry were independently predictive of good outcome from surgery. Univariate analysis of the case with different numbers of predictive factors present showed that use of the operating microscope, sensory deficit, central disc bulge, and free disc fragment were correlated with outcome only in subgroups. An analysis of unsatisfactory outcomes showed two patterns: one of failure as a result of mechanical back pain and one of failure as a result of radiculopathy. Factors predictive of outcome did not influence the type of failure. In a stepwise logistic regression analysis, facetectomy and preoperative sensory deficit were associated with increased likelihood of mechanical back pain failure, while preoperative motor deficit was associated with an increased likelihood of radicular failure. The results support several intuitively derived and commonly believed principles of lumbar disc surgery. 
Umbilical cord occlusion stimulates breathing independent of blood gases and pH. The role of umbilical cord occlusion in the initiation of breathing at birth was investigated by use of 16 unanesthetized fetal sheep near full term. Artificial ventilation with high-frequency oscillation was used to control fetal arterial blood gas tensions. At baseline, PCO2 was maintained at control fetal values and PO2 was elevated to between 25 and 50 Torr. In the first study on six intact and four vagotomized fetuses, arterial PCO2 and PO2 were maintained constant during two 30-min periods of umbilical cord occlusion. Nevertheless, the mean fetal breathing rate increased significantly when the umbilical cord was occluded. In the second study on six intact fetuses, hypercapnia (68 Torr) was imposed by adding CO2 to the ventilation gas. When the umbilical cord was occluded, there was a significantly greater stimulation of breathing (rate, incidence, and amplitude) in response to hypercapnia than in response to hypercapnia alone. During cord occlusion, plasma prostaglandin E2 concentration decreased significantly. Results indicate that cord occlusion stimulates breathing possibly by causing the removal of a placentally produced respiratory inhibitor such as prostaglandin E2 from the circulation. 
v-abl causes hematopoietic disease distinct from that caused by bcr-abl. v-abl, the oncogene transduced by Abelson murine leukemia virus, was first characterized by its ability to transform lymphoid cells. bcr-abl, the oncogene formed by a t(9;22) translocation thought to occur in human hematopoietic stem cells, is detectable in almost all cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), a malignancy of granulocytic cells. bcr-abl also causes a CML-like syndrome in mice whose bone-marrow cells are infected with a retrovirus transducing the gene. More recent reports have suggested that v-abl can, however, cause a disease similar to CML. We demonstrate here that v-abl, when transduced in a helper virus-containing system, causes disease similar to, but distinct from, the CML-like syndrome induced by bcr-abl. Animals whose bone marrow has been infected by v-abl virus develop modest splenomegaly, marked granulocytosis, and malignant disease of several hematopoietic cell types. Unlike animals with CML-like disease resulting from bcr-abl, the polymorphonuclear leukocytes from animals infected with a v-abl construct do not contain the v-abl provirus at a significant frequency. Histopathologic analysis also shows significant differences between the diseases caused by v-abl and bcr-abl. 
Loss of transforming growth factor beta 1 receptors and its effects on the growth of EBV-transformed human B cells. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a potent negative regulator of normal human B cell growth mediated by exogenous signals, including IL-2 and low m.w. B cell growth factor 12 kDa (BCGF-12 kDa). In the present study, we investigated the regulatory linkage between viral or nonviral transformation of human B cells and the growth inhibitory effects of TGF-beta 1. A panel of EBV+ and EBV- B cell lines, derived either by in vitro EBV B cell transformation, or from cases of lymphoma was used to quantitate the negative growth effects of TGF-beta 1. The proliferative response of three EBV- B cell lines to rBCGF-12 kDa or serum was inhibited by low concentrations of TGF-beta 1 (0.2-0.5 ng/ml for 50% maximal effect), as measured by tritiated thymidine uptake and viable cellular recovery. In contrast, rBCGF-12 kDa or serum mediated proliferation of three EBV+ B cell lines was refractory to the growth inhibitory effects of TGF-beta 1. In an attempt to understand the mechanism(s) for this differential growth control in EBV+ and EBV- B cells, we studied the expression of TGF-beta 1, c-myc, and TGF-beta 1 receptors. No correlation was observed between the expression of TGF-beta 1 or c-myc gene and growth inhibition by TGF-beta 1 in the cell lines studied. Our results indicate that sensitivity or resistance to TGF-beta 1 correlated with the presence or absence (loss) of high affinity receptors for TGF-beta 1. EBV- B cell lines expressed levels of high affinity receptors similar to those found on activated normal B or T cells. In contrast, EBV+ B cell lines showed no detectable high affinity receptors. Chemical cross-linking studies with a bifunctional reagent, dissuccinimidyl suberate revealed a normal expression of type I (65-70 kDa), type II (85-90 kDa), and type III (280-300 kDa) TGF-beta 1 high affinity receptors on EBV- B cell lines. In contrast, EBV+ B cell lines did not express type I and type II receptors, whereas type III receptors were expressed but could not be inhibited by unlabeled TGF-beta 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Elevated serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha after bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage are often followed by the development of fever and other influenza-like symptoms. We report the onset of these symptoms in a healthy volunteer following bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage; the symptoms were temporally associated with the dramatic elevation of serum levels of tumor necrosis factor. Our observations suggest that tumor necrosis factor may be involved in mediating fever and other influenza-like symptoms occurring after bronchoscopy. 
Purpura fulminans and adrenal hemorrhage due to group Y meningococcemia in an elderly woman. A 70-year-old previously healthy woman was admitted with a 1-day history of malaise, sore throat, nausea, vomiting, rigors, and confusion. She was found to be in septic shock with purpura fulminans and disseminated intravascular coagulation. She died within 36 hours of admission. Blood cultures grew Neisseria meningitidis group Y. Necropsy revealed evidence of shock and bilateral adrenal hemorrhage. 
Effect of a bulk-forming cathartic on diarrhea in tube-fed patients. Diarrhea is a significant complication for the patient being tube-fed. The purpose of this study was to observe whether giving a bulk-forming cathartic to patients receiving enteral nutrition via nasogastric or nasoduodenal tube would result in firmer stools for these patients. Forty-nine patients in a large medical center were randomly assigned to either a control or an experimental group. During the 6-day study period 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of psyllium preparation was administered through the feeding tube three times a day. Data were analyzed by using the Mann-Whitney U test for nonparametric data. The hypothesis that giving a bulk-forming cathartic would lead to firmer stools was supported at an alpha level of less than 0.01. The results of this study suggest that use of a bulk-forming cathartic in tube-fed patients will significantly reduce the diarrhea associated with this type of feeding. 
Radical hysterectomy versus radiation therapy for stage IB squamous cell cancer of the cervix. Three hundred forty-five patients with Stage IB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix were treated at the University of Michigan Medical Center from 1970 to 1985. The overall cumulative 5-year survival rate was 89% and the mean age was 44.6 years. In 213 patients undergoing radical hysterectomy the cumulative 5-year survival rate was 92%; 14 patients were explored for radical hysterectomy that was not performed due to high risk features and their survival rate was 50%. Ninety-seven patients underwent radiation therapy as initial treatment and had a 5-year survival rate of 86%. There was no significant difference when radiation therapy was compared with radical hysterectomy (P = 0.098). The survival rates for lesions 3 cm or smaller were 94% for radical hysterectomy and 88% for radiation therapy. When the lesion was larger than 3 cm, the survival rates were 82% with radical surgery and 73% with radiation therapy. Metastatic disease to lymph nodes was present in 26 of the 213 patients undergoing radical hysterectomy. When 1 to 3 nodes were involved 16 of 19 patients survived and when 4 to 10 nodes were involved 3 of 7 patients survived. The addition of radiation therapy did not influence survival. Complications were similar in both treatment groups. Fistulas occurred in 4 of 213 patients undergoing radical hysterectomy and 1 of 111 undergoing radiation. Second surgery for a complication was required in 6 of 213 patients undergoing radical hysterectomy and 7 of 111 undergoing radiation. Survival and complication rates in early stage squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix are equal with either radical surgery or radiation therapy. 
Chemotherapy update. The administration of chemotherapy is one of the major forms of cancer treatment. Recent progress in the use of chemotherapeutic agents has evolved from an understanding of the basic mechanisms of tumor cell kinetics and the molecular and biochemical basis for individual and multidrug resistance patterns. These advances have led to the development of novel approaches to the administration of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Nurses must remain knowledgeable about these concepts to understand the mechanisms underlying the administration of various combinations of cancer chemotherapy. 
Application of estrogen receptor immunocytochemical assay to aspirates from mammographically guided fine needle biopsy of nonpalpable breast lesions. The importance of hormone receptors in the management and prognosis of breast cancer is well established, but difficult to apply to the growing numbers of very small breast cancers being detected. To assess the feasibility of applying estrogen receptor immunocytochemical assay (ER-ICA) to cytologic specimens, we prospectively studied 100 patients who had fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of mammographically detected nonpalpable breast lesions. All 100 patients also had surgical excision of these nonpalpable lesions immediately after cytologic aspiration. Twenty malignancies were ultimately diagnosed by histology; 17 of them had been cytologically diagnosed. Using specific monoclonal antibody for estrogen receptor, we applied ER-ICA to cytologic preparation of 15 malignant neoplasms with sufficient cellular material available for the assay. Positive immunostaining was demonstrated in nine cases. No ER expression was seen in six cases. Immunocytochemical assay was also done on frozen tissue of the corresponding surgically removed tumors, with 86.6% concordance between the two results. This study is the first to demonstrate that ER-ICA can be effective in assessing hormone receptor content of mammographically directed cytologic aspirates. 
Clinical implications of pathophysiologic changes in the midlife hypertensive patient. Both aging and hypertension decrease cardiac output through a lower stroke volume and a diminished beta-adrenergic responsiveness. In parallel, the vascular resistance increases because of vascular hypertrophy. In addition, in hypertension the alpha-adrenergic responsiveness is enhanced. Aging and hypertension are also associated with an increase in plasma cholesterol and insulin values. These alterations in cholesterol and insulin levels become particularly pronounced in middle-aged patients with hypertension. alpha-Adrenergic-blocking agents have a positive effect on lipids and insulin resistance. The shift toward enhanced alpha-adrenergic responsiveness, and the fact that vasodilators do not diminish exercise performance favor the use of alpha-blockers as a first drug in middle-aged patients with hypertension. Blood pressure lowering still remains the paramount goal, and these compounds should be used only if proved to be efficacious in a given individual patient. 
An approach to the evaluation and treatment of microscopic hematuria. Persistent microscopic hematuria in children is most often benign or untreatable. The evaluation of microscopic hematuria in an otherwise healthy child need not require invasive and costly laboratory studies. The initial evaluation must look for signs of life-threatening causes of hematuria, i.e., hypertension, edema, oliguria, or significant proteinuria. If these are absent, a stepwise evaluation is suggested, which includes microscopic examination of the urine for red blood cell casts, a test for proteinuria, serum creatinine, and serial follow-up. Renal biopsy may establish a diagnosis but rarely changes the treatment in a child with asymptomatic isolated microscopic hematuria. 
Infantile meningitis in England and Wales: a two year study. A two year prospective study identified 1922 cases of meningitis in children under 1 year of age. A further 201 cases were identified from other sources. The annual incidence of meningitis during the first year of life was 1.6/1000; during the first 28 days of life it was 0.32/1000, and among postneonatal infants it was 1.22/1000. The male:female ratio was 1.4:1. The overall case fatality rate was 19.8% for neonates and 5.4% for postneonatal infants. Two thirds of deaths identified in the study, 50% of all deaths, were not attributed to meningitis by the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys. Group B beta haemolytic streptococci (28%), Escherichia coli (18%), and Listeria monocytogenes (5%) were most frequently isolated from neonates and Neisseria meningitidis (31%), Haemophilus influenzae (30%), and Streptococcus pneumoniae (10%) from postneonatal infants. At 2-6 months of age N meningitidis meningitis was most common, and at 7-12 months H influenzae predominated. Meningitis caused by group B beta haemolytic streptococci occurred up to 6 months of age and had a consistent mortality of 25%. Neonatal meningitis due to Gram negative enteric rods had a mortality of 32%. Low birth weight was a significant predisposing factor for both neonates and postneonatal infants. In both groups mortality was significantly higher among children admitted in coma. There was no seasonal variation in incidence in either group. Neonates were treated with either group. Neonates were treated with either chloramphenicol (50%) or gentamicin (48%) usually in combination with a penicillin; 40% received a third generation cephalosporin. Of the 1472 postneonatal infants treated 84% received chloramphenicol with a penicillin and 10% received a third generation cephalosporin. 
Interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells in 15 children with advanced metastatic neuroblastoma. A phase II trial using interleukin-2 (IL2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells was carried out in an attempt to treat children with end-stage neuroblastoma. Fifteen patients (median age, 7 years) were enrolled in the study. Twelve were in relapse after massive chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT), and three had a primary refractory disease after conventional chemotherapy. IL2 was administered as an 18 x 10(6) IU/m2/d continuous infusion. One course consisted of a double 5-day treatment period separated by a 6-day break. Cytapheresis to harvest LAK progenitor cells was performed during the rest period. After a 4-day in vitro culture, LAK cells were reinjected during the second cycle of therapy. A phenotypic and functional analysis of immunologic parameters was conducted along with the therapeutic protocol. Toxicity was significant with two toxic deaths (cardiotoxicity and respiratory distress). The reinfusion of large amounts of LAK cells was clearly involved in one case, but this particularly severe toxicity has to be related to the patient's status (ie, heavy pretreatment). No significant clinical response was seen. The immunologic monitoring showed phenotypic and functional modifications in these patients before initiation of treatment and an unexpected absence of evolution of these parameters during IL2 therapy. Although the origin of these immune dysfunctions is not clear, they could be involved in the failure of IL2 therapy. Future studies of IL2 therapy in neuroblastoma should be undertaken earlier in the course of the disease. 
Unexplained weight loss in the ambulatory elderly. Significant unexplained and unintentional weight loss was found in 45 elderly patients who were identified by computer search of the diagnostic files of seven family practice centers. We performed a case series chart review study which revealed that 24% of the 45 cases had no definitive etiology for the weight loss after two years of extensive clinical investigation. Depression was found to be the most common diagnosis made (18%) followed by cancer (16%). Only four patients died during the study period and all had cancer. The most prevalent diagnosis in this group of ambulatory elderly patients did not prove to be cancer, as often though, but rather "unexplained weight loss." CT scans were not found to be helpful as screening tests in the evaluation of weight loss. Using the data from this study, the diagnostic evaluations of elderly patients with unexplained weight loss may be more efficiently directed. 
Irrationality in the management of breast cancer. I. The staging system. The historic development of breast cancer staging began early in the 20th century with the simple concept of early localized disease, spread to regional nodes, and the presence of distant metastases. This last group often was divided into patients with advanced but perhaps still curable locoregional disease and incurable patients with distant metastases. As increasing numbers of prognostic factors were recognized, efforts were made to incorporate them into the staging systems to combine patients with similar prognosis into the same stages. These attempts resulted in the development of four classifications, namely, the Columbia, Manchester, International, and American tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) staging systems. Although many benefits of staging were reported, the most important was that of permitting valid comparisons between different treatments and different institutions. Many success-limiting factors were noticed during the developmental years, and even though the TNM system has been accepted, numerous speakers and authors present their staged data in a confusing and ambiguous manner. Recommendations are made that would permit clarification of presentations to general medical audiences along with recognizable statistical validity. 
Biliary bile acid profiles in familial adenomatous polyposis. Patients with familial adenomatous polyposis have an excess risk for adenomas and cancers of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. In the upper intestine these lesions occur mainly around the ampulla of Vater and they parallel mucosal exposure to bile. In view of this finding and of evidence that bile acids play a role in colorectal carcinogenesis, biliary bile acid profiles were determined in 29 patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (12 before colectomy, 17 after colectomy) and in 28 patients without familial adenomatous polyposis (all with colons in situ). Patients with familial adenomatous polyposis had a higher total biliary bile acid concentration than the others. The bile of patients with polyposis had a greater proportion of chenodeoxycholic acid and a lower proportion of deoxycholic acid than did the bile of patients without polyposis. The ratio of chenodeoxycholic acid and its metabolite lithocholic acid to cholic acid and its metabolite deoxycholic acid, which is related to subsequent bile acid profiles in the colon, was higher in patients with polyposis. Because bile acids influence cellular proliferation, these findings may be of importance with respect to intestinal adenoma and cancer growth. 
Quantitative analysis of inflammatory cell influx, procollagen type I synthesis, and collagen cross-linking in incisional wounds: influence of PDGF-BB and TGF-beta 1 therapy. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB homodimer) and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) are potent wound-healing hormones that accelerate incisional repair. To identify more precisely and quantitatively the stage(s) of wound healing influenced by growth-factor therapy, we investigated the three sequential tissue repair processes--inflammatory cell influx, intracellular procollagen type I (PC-I) synthesis, and collagen cross-linking--in recombinant growth factor--treated wounds. Using newly developed automated, quantitative image-analysis techniques, we observed that PDGF-BB markedly augmented the directed migration of macrophages into wounds during the first week after wounding and triggered and earlier and more sustained influx of PC-I--containing fibroblasts into the wound when compared with results in TGF-beta 1-treated or control wounds (p = 0.015 at day 2; p = 0.007 at day 21). In contrast, automated image analysis revealed TGF-beta 1-treated wound fibroblasts had a nearly twofold increase in intracellular levels of PC-I protein when compared with PDGF-BB-treated or control wound fibroblasts (p = 0.004 at day 4). However, the influence of TGF-beta 1 was transient, and the longer duration of PDGF-BB activity suggested a later influence, perhaps on the collagen remodeling phase, which is ultimately required for increased wound strength. To address this possibility, collagen cross-linking in growth factor-treated wounds was inhibited by beta-aminoproprionitrile (BAPN) treatment, and wound breaking strength was analyzed. Both PDGF-BB and TGF-beta 1 continued to enhance repair in BAPN-treated rats, indicating that they do not function primarily at the level of collagen cross-linking. Thus, PDGF-BB appears to enhance the inflammatory phase of wound healing to indirectly trigger PC-I synthesis, whereas TGF-beta 1 quantitatively enhances PC-I synthesis directly, accounting for their differing duration of activities within healing wounds. 
Dideoxyinosine in children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection. BACKGROUND. 2',3'-Dideoxyinosine (ddl) is a dideoxynucleoside with potent activity in vitro against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In initial clinical trials in adults, ddl showed evidence of antiretroviral activity with little hematologic toxicity. METHODS. We conducted a phase I-II study in 43 children with symptomatic (CDC class P-2) HIV infection. Of these children, 16 (median age, 10 years) had previously received zidovudine, and 27 (median age, 2.6 years) had not. ddl was administered orally in three divided doses totalling 60, 120, 180, 360, or 540 mg per square meter of body-surface area per day for 24 weeks. Eight of the 43 patients did not complete 24 weeks of ddl: 6 died, 1 was withdrawn because of progressive disease, and the other because of toxicity. RESULTS. After oral administration, ddl was rapidly absorbed, although its bioavailability varied greatly among patients. Pancreatitis developed in two children, one receiving ddl at each of the two highest doses. The median CD4 cell count in 38 patients with paired counts increased from 0.218 x 10(9) per liter (218 per cubic millimeter) at base line to 0.327 x 10(9) per liter (327 per cubic millimeter) after 20 to 24 weeks (P = 0.001). Those with CD4 cell counts above 0.1 x 10(9) per liter (100 per cubic millimeter) at base line were significantly more likely to improve in this respect. The median levels of p24 antigen (in 27 patients with detectable levels at entry) declined from 272 pg per milliliter at base line to 77 pg per milliliter at 20 to 24 weeks (P = 0.005). The plasma concentration of ddl correlated significantly with both the degree of decline in the p24 antigen and the degree of improvement in IQ score. Improvement in clinical and immunologic measures occurred in both the previously untreated patients and in those who had been treated with zidovudine. CONCLUSIONS. Dideoxyinosine was well tolerated and showed promising antiretroviral activity in HIV-infected children. The correlation between the clinical response and the plasma concentration of ddl indicates that bioavailability is an important consideration in the use of ddl to treat HIV infection and that individualized pharmacokinetic monitoring and dose adjustment may be important for optimal activity. 
Use of graded exercise to evaluate physiological hyperreactivity to mental stress. Physiological hyperreactivity (i.e., response in excess of metabolic requirements) to mental stress has been implicated in the etiology of coronary heart disease. This study evaluated potential hyperreactivity of cardiovascular, pulmonary, and biochemical variables to mental stress. Thirty healthy males, 19-36 yr, performed a mental arithmetic task and cycle ergometry at three powerloads. Linear regressions were calculated for each of 17 dependent variables during exercise, with oxygen uptake (VO2) serving as the independent variable. Ten variables were significantly correlated (P less than 0.003) with VO2 during exercise and, therefore, were predicted at the VO2 observed during the arithmetic task. The actual level of each variable observed during the arithmetic task was compared with the level predicted from the exercise by paired t-tests. Heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, rate-pressure product, minute ventilation, respiratory frequency, and respiratory exchange ratio were significantly greater (7-32%, P less than 0.005) during the arithmetic task than predicted from the exercise at an equivalent VO2. Plasma cortisol and serum lipid variables were not useful for evaluating hyperreactivity. Results demonstrated that graded aerobic exercise can serve as a reference for evaluating physiological hyperreactivity to mental stress for a group of ten variables which were significantly correlated with VO2 during graded exercise. 
Recurrent parotitis and sialectasis in childhood. Clinical, radiologic, immunologic, bacteriologic, and histologic study. Twenty children with juvenile recurrent parotitis, between 3 months and 16 years of age at onset, were followed up over a period of 7 to 22 years. Radiologic, histopathologic, cytologic, immunologic, and bacteriologic studies were performed to investigate the cause of sialectasis, commonly found in juvenile recurrent parotitis, and the pathogenesis of the disease. It was considered that a combination of a congenital malformation of portions of the salivary ducts and infections ascending from the mouth following dehydration of the children are contributory to the pathogenesis of the disease. The results of the investigations into the cause of the disease appear to exclude an auto-immunologic response or an allergic condition, an immature immune response, mumps, a sensitivity to upper respiratory tract infection, and familial factors. 
Efficacy of a postoperative regimen of enoxaparin in deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis. Venous thromboembolism is a common complication in patients undergoing elective hip replacement, in whom the incidence of calf vein thrombosis is 40% to 60%; proximal vein thrombosis, 20%; and fatal pulmonary embolism, 1% to 2% when prophylaxis is not used. A double-blind, randomized trial comparing low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin) with placebo for the prevention of venous thrombosis in patients undergoing elective hip surgery was carried out. Prophylactic treatment with a fixed dose was begun postoperatively and continued for 14 days. Fifty patients in each treatment group underwent surveillance with 125I-fibrinogen leg scanning and impedance plethysmography. In the first 24 patients, venography was performed only if their surveillance test was positive. Venography was requested in the remaining 76 patients even if the screening tests were negative; in this latter group, venous thrombosis occurred in 4 patients (10.8%) given enoxaparin and 20 patients (51.3%) given placebo (p = 0.0002). The corresponding rates for proximal vein thrombosis were 5.4% and 23.1%, respectively (p = 0.029). In the entire group of 100 patients, venous thrombosis occurred in 12% of those given enoxaparin and 42% of those given placebo (p = 0.0007). The corresponding rates for proximal vein thrombi were 4% and 20%, respectively (p = 0.014). The observed hemorrhagic rate was 5% in each treatment group. The results of this study show that prophylaxis with fixed-dose enoxaparin is effective and safe for patients undergoing elective hip replacement. 
Engagement of interleukin-7 receptor stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation, phosphoinositide turnover, and clonal proliferation of human T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. The purposes of this study were to examine the biologic effects of the engagement of the interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R) with recombinant human interleukin-7 (rhIL-7) in immunophenotypically distinct T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) blasts and to elucidate the biochemical nature of the IL-7R-linked transmembrane signal in rhIL-7-responsive T-lineage ALL blast populations. In the absence of costimulants, rhIL-7 stimulated the in vitro proliferation and colony formation of freshly isolated leukemic blasts from six to eight T-lineage ALL patients with a mean plating efficiency of 196 +/- 53 (background subtracted) colonies/10(5) blasts plated. Stimulation of T-lineage ALL blasts with rhIL-7 resulted in markedly enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of six distinct phosphoproteins with molecular weights of 57, 72, 98, 123, 150, and 190 Kd, and induced a rapid increase in the production of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (Ins-1,4,5-P3), which was inhibitable by the tyrosine-specific protein kinase inhibitor genistein, but not by the serine/threonine-specific protein kinase C inhibitor H7. Similarly, rhIL-7 stimulated Ins-1,4,5-P3 production in CEM-1.3 T-lineage ALL cells and this stimulation was inhibitable by the tyrosine-specific protein kinase inhibitors genistein and herbimycin A, but not by H-7. Thus, the transmembrane signal triggered by engagement of the IL-7R is intimately linked to a functional tyrosine-specific protein kinase pathway and stimulates the phosphoinositide (PI) turnover and proliferation of T-lineage ALL blasts. The presented data confirm and extend previous studies on the expression of functional IL-7R on T-lineage ALL blasts and support the hypothesis that IL-7 may play an important regulatory role in the biology of T-lineage ALL. 
Late recurrent Candida endocarditis. Late recurrent Candida endocarditis (LRCE) developed on a prosthetic mitral valve 22 months after treatment for primary native mitral valve endocarditis. The LRCE was difficult to diagnose; results of two dimensional echocardiography and repeated blood cultures were negative. Only transesophageal echocardiography revealed a vegetation and only lysis centrifugation blood cultures demonstrated candidemia. Postmortem examination revealed a large Candida vegetation on the prosthetic valve and Candida in the mitral valve ring. This case and a review of the literature indicate that Candida endocarditis treated with amphotericin B and prosthetic valve replacement may recur months after treatment, and that LRCE, which is difficult to diagnose and treat, may be best prevented by lifelong antifungal suppressive therapy. 
Successful excision of a juvenile-type spinal arteriovenous malformation following intraoperative embolization. Case report. The case of a 57-year-old woman with a 14-year history of progressive paraparesis is presented. Selective spinal angiography revealed a juvenile-type spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) with a typical large size and rapid flow. The AVM was located primarily in the retromedullary space at the cervicothoracic junction. The AVM was successfully obliterated by intraoperative embolization using isobutyl-2-cyanoacrylate and surgical excision. 
Spontaneous and corticotropin-releasing factor-induced cytosolic calcium transients in corticotrophs. Spontaneous and CRF-stimulated changes in the cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) were studied in two types of corticotrophs: 1) cultured human ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma cells (hACTH cells), and 2) identified small ovoid corticotrophs cultured from normal rat pituitaries. [Ca2+]i was monitored in individual corticotrophs by dual emission microspectrofluorimetry using indo-1 as the intracellular fluorescent Ca2+ probe. In hACTH cells, [Ca2+]i measurements were carried out in combination with electrophysiological recordings obtained using whole cell patch-clamp techniques. It was shown that a single spontaneous Ca(2+)-dependent action potential led to a marked transient increase in [Ca2+]i in human tumoral corticotrophs. Spontaneous fluctuations in [Ca2+]i were also observed in unpatched corticotrophs whether derived from human pituitary tumors or normal rat tissue. Based on their striking kinetic features and their sensitivity to external Ca2+, we suggest that these spontaneous [Ca2+]i transients were the consequence of action potential firing. Under separate voltage-clamp (patch-clamp) conditions, tumor corticotrophs showed two Ca2+ current components: a low threshold, rapidly inactivating (T-type) current, and a higher threshold, slowly inactivating (L-type) current. The dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blocker PN 200-110 (100 nM) abolished the L-type current without affecting the T-type current, while the inorganic Ca2+ channel blocker Cd2+ (200 microM) suppressed both Ca2+ currents. The Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin (5 microM) did not affect inward currents in tumor corticotrophs. Both L- and T-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels were involved in controlling [Ca2+]i transients in both tumor and normal corticotrophs, inasmuch as Cd2+ (200 microM) abolished [Ca2+]i) transients, while PN 200-110 (100 nM) greatly diminished, but did not completely abolish, [Ca2+]i transients. The latter did not appear to depend on a voltage-dependent Na+ influx, since they were unaffected by tetrodotoxin (5 microM). Corticotrophs generate [Ca2+]i transients in response to the hypothalamic secretagogue CRF by acting on their membrane excitability. Indeed, we demonstrated in combined fluorescent and electrophysiological experiments that CRF (100 nM) had a coordinate action on human tumoral corticotrophs comprised of a modest depolarization and an increase in the frequency of both action potentials and subsequent [Ca2+]i transients. A coincident increase in the peak amplitude of the [Ca2+]i transient and after hyperpolarization was also observed in some CRF-stimulated cells. CRF (100 nM) evoked qualitatively similar [Ca2+]i patterns in human tumoral and normal rat corticotrophs not subjected to patch-clamping.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Detection of human papillomavirus DNA by in situ DNA hybridization and polymerase chain reaction in premalignant and malignant oral lesions. The sensitivity of detection of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in premalignant and malignant oral lesions by in situ hybridization (ISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were compared. With both methods HPV DNA was found in 4 of 24 cases of epithelial dysplasia, 4 of 14 cases of verrucous hyperplasia, and 1 of 10 cases of squamous cell carcinoma. The 10 cases of smokeless tobacco keratoses and 3 cases of verrucous carcinoma that we examined were all negative for HPV DNA. The PCR for the E6 open reading frame of HPV-16 correctly identified all cases that were positive by ISH. Only a single case that was positive by PCR was negative by ISH for HPV DNA. However, the PCR demonstrated the presence of HPV-16 infection in one case, which had hybridized most intensely with the probe for types 31/33/35 in the ISH. This discrepancy probably is due to the high degree of cross-hybridization in the ISH assay. PCR appears to be an effective technique for identifying HPV-16 DNA sequences in biopsy material from premalignant and malignant oral lesions. 
Neurogenic and nonneurogenic pain and inflammatory mediators. Pain is not a simple perception. Although millions of people suffer because of it and billions of dollars are spent trying to eradicate it, we are only in our infancy of understanding the very complex interactions necessary to perceive or distort our feelings of pain. We must continue to seek a better understanding of not only our patients' macroscopic impression of pain, but we must look microscopically at each cell involved in the whole of the pain process. A time will come when our molecular understanding will provide us with the means to unlock the secrets of pain. We have come a long way since the time of Descartes in our understanding of the neurophysiology and anatomy of pain, but we have a great deal more work to do if we are going to provide our patients with better remedies in the future. 
Sleep apnea and systemic hypertension: a causal association review. OBJECTIVE: To critically examine the causal association between sleep apnea syndrome and hypertension. METHODS: A retrospective systematic critique of five epidemiologic studies published in the English literature during 1978 to 1989 identified on Medline and manual literature searches. The evidence was evaluated using the standard observational criteria for causation: strength of association, consistency, dose-response relationship, temporal sequence, specificity, and biologic plausibility. RESULTS: We found evidence to support a causal association between sleep apnea syndrome and hypertension in consistency and specificity and some evidence to suggest a dose-response relationship. Review of the data dealing with the mechanisms important in the pathogenesis of sleep apnea and hypertension allowed us to advance several theories to provide support for biologic plausibility. CONCLUSION: We concluded that there is a positive association--relative risk estimate between 1.3 and 40--for sleep apnea syndrome and hypertension, but the risk association is unstable. Thus, we believe that there is insufficient data to justify doing polysomnography as part of the routine diagnostic work-up for patients with hypertension. 
Blunt abdominal trauma resulting in intestinal obstruction: when to operate? The overall approach to blunt abdominal trauma resulting in hematoma and intestinal obstruction has been variable and controversial. Recent reports recommend conservative nonoperative management. We reviewed six cases of duodenal and jejunal hematomas resulting from blunt trauma of which five resolved with nasogastric decompression and parenteral nutrition. The average hospital stay was 16 days (10-23 days), and total parenteral nutrition days were 9 days (4-16 days). Upper gastrointestinal series (UGI) demonstrated partial bowel obstruction in all five cases. In contrast, the sixth case was a restrained passenger who had evidence of complete bowel obstruction on UGI series, which failed to resolve after 18 days of conservative management. Laparotomy revealed jejunal and colonic strictures with fibrosis, which were successfully resected. We recommend that based on radiologic documentation of persistent high-grade obstruction, as well as the clinical course, patients whose obstructions do not resolve by 10 to 14 days ought to be further investigated and operative intervention considered. This approach may facilitate an earlier diagnosis of complications, reduce length of hospitalization and days on parenteral nutrition, as well as to expedite the proper management. 
Computed tomographic scan confirmation of paraprosthetic enteric fistula. Aortoenteric anastomotic fistulae and paraprosthetic graft infections are rare but devastating complications following aortic graft surgery. Although the incidence of these complications is reported to be less than 2%, the difficulty in diagnosis and management has led to high mortality rates and extensive morbidity. The majority of patients present with either groin infection or significant gastrointestinal tract bleeding. There is, however, a subset of patients with nonspecific clinical findings in whom routine studies are not diagnostic. Computed tomography was a useful adjunct to the diagnosis of retroperitoneal infection in these patients by demonstrating small collections of periaortic gas or "black dots." The presence of periaortic gas in each instance proved to be a specific sign of a paraprosthetic-enteric fistula, as opposed to a graft infection without intestinal communication. 
The controversy of heparin therapy as an adjunct to thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. Heparin is used routinely in the US as adjunct therapy for prevention of reocclusion after thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction. A review of the literature shows controversy over the efficacy of heparin following thrombolysis. Both beneficial and a lack of beneficial effects have been reported with heparin. From a pathophysiologic viewpoint, there appears to be a need for full heparinization in the postlytic period because the residual stenosis is highly thrombogenic. However, optimal dose, time, and mode of heparin therapy has not been defined. Despite a lack of definitive data, it seems reasonable to administer intravenous heparin immediately after thrombolytic therapy to achieve a partial thromboplastin time 1.5-2.0 times control that is concurrent with an antiplatelet agent such as aspirin. These recommendations are consistent with the consensus opinion of the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association. 
Immunohistochemical analysis of amylase isoenzymes in thyroid cancer. The expression of amylase in various histological types of thyroid cancer was studied by an immunohistochemical technique, using a polyclonal antiamylase antiserum and two monoclonal antibodies specific for salivary and pancreatic-type amylases, respectively. Amylase was expressed in 21 of 24 (88%) thyroid cancers by polyclonal antiserum analysis. Analysis by monoclonal antibodies, however, showed that only 13 (54%) cases and three (13%) cases contained salivary-type and pancreatic-type amylases, respectively. Moreover, immunoreactivity for pancreatic-type amylase was detected only in medullary carcinoma; other histological types were positive for salivary-type amylase. These results show that thyroid cancer frequently expresses amylase, and suggest that the differences between amylase isoenzymes in thyroid cancer may correlate with those found between cellular origin of tumour. 
Lipid deposition and intimal stress and strain. A study in rats with aortic stenosis. These experiments were designed to study the topography of lipid deposition in the stenotic aorta of hypercholesterolemic rats, and to correlate it with flow conditions and intimal stresses and strains studied in a scale biophysical model and in a computer model. A 69% +/- 5% stenosis was produced with a U-shaped metal clip. One month to 8 months later, the aorta was studied en face by light microscopy after fixation and lipid staining. The intima in the throat of the stenosis was almost completely free of lipid, whereas symmetric lipid deposits occurred as bands just above and especially just below the stenosis; elsewhere lipid deposits appeared to be random. The flow data obtained from the scale model showed that the intima in the throat of the stenosis was subjected to an increase of as much as 20 times in shear stress, whereas the lipid deposits just above and just below the stenosis were associated with asymmetric flow conditions: the proximal area corresponded to a region of rapidly increasing shear stress, the distal area to a region of low to normal shear stress and separated flow. A finite element computer model based on the aortic deformations indicated that the endothelium at the inlet and outlet of the stenosis is subjected to a symmetric pattern of elevated stresses and strains. These results indicate that 1) the pattern of lipid deposition can not be adequately explained by a hypothesis based solely on flow conditions, and 2) lipid deposits can develop in areas of increased fluid shear stress, decreased fluid shear stress, and increased intimal strains. 
Angioplasty of long or tandem coronary artery lesions using a new longer balloon dilatation catheter: a comparative study. To determine whether or not a new 3 cm long angioplasty balloon was more effective in treatment of long (15-25 mm) or tandem (less than 25 mm overall length) coronary lesions, 44 consecutive patients with suitable lesions were alternately assigned to treatment with shorter, standard, 2 cm length, or long, 3 cm balloons. Primary success of PTCA was achieved in 95%. Those treated with long balloons required fewer inflations (3.3 +/- 1.5 vs. 5.7 +/- 2.1, P = .0001) and showed fewer moderate or severe intimal dissections of the lesions (4/22 vs. 12/22, p = .028). The use of 3 cm PTCA balloons in long or tandem lesions appears to be efficacious and less likely to cause dissections than shorter, 2 cm length devices. 
Invited review: electrodiagnostic assessment and monitoring of motor unit changes in disease. The motor unit characteristics change dynamically with disease. This is the basis for the use of neurophysiologic methods for diagnostic purposes and for long-term monitoring. A great variety of nerve conduction and EMG parameters are available to study the motor unit. They reflect different aspects of motor unit function. Therefore, the electromyographer must choose his technique and optimal parameters depending on the situation, type of condition, whether the purpose is diagnosis or monitoring, and so on. In this presentation the relationship between EMG parameters and physiologic and morphologic counterparts in some pathologic conditions will be discussed. 
Recurrent mild abruptio placentae occurring immediately after repeated electroconvulsive therapy in pregnancy. We present a case in which electroconvulsive therapy was performed repeatedly in pregnancy because of severe depression with psychotic features and failure of chemical treatment. Each electroconvulsive treatment was immediately followed by uterine contractions and active uterine bleeding, possibly representing recurrent abruptio placentae occurring in association with the treatment. Transient acute episodes of maternal hypertension between 180/90 and 190/100 mm Hg, documented within minutes after application of each electroconvulsive treatment, might explain the abruptio placentae manifested by active uterine bleeding and uterine hyperstimulation. 
Myocardial biochemical and hemodynamic adaptations to chronic tachycardia. The purpose was to determine the biochemical and hemodynamic adaptations of the myocardium to chronic tachycardia. Cardiac pacemakers were implanted in Yorkshire pigs and set at a rate of 180 beats/min for a period of 35-42 days. Animals were then anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. Myocardial blood flow and hemodynamics were determined at three different heart rates (i.e., 120, 180, and 220 beats/min). Tissue samples were then taken for microsphere and biochemical analyses. Chronically paced hearts maintained better cardiac function and had consistently higher left ventricular blood flow with a higher endocardial-to-epicardial ratio. The activities of citrate synthase and 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase were 23 and 45% greater in the paced hearts, respectively. The sarcoplasmic reticulum adenosinetriphosphatase activity was 55% greater in the paced hearts, whereas the myosin adenosinetriphosphatase was the same as in the control hearts. Polyacrylamide gels of the ventricular myosin isoforms showed only the V3 type to be present in both the control and paced hearts. These findings show that the heart of a large mammal adapts to chronic tachycardia (i.e., 180 beats/min) by elevating the aerobic and calcium-sequestering capacities without altering its myosin type. 
Infantile Pompe's disease, lipid storage, and partial carnitine deficiency. A diagnosis of infantile Pompe's disease (glycogenosis type II) was made by muscle biopsy on a 6-month-old infant boy seen with hypotonia, weakness, and developmental regression. Histochemistry and electron microscopy revealed a vacuolar myopathy with massive glycoge accumulation associated with increased neutral lipid as demonstrated on Oil Red O reactions. Pleomorphic, hypertrophic mitochondria with distortion of cristae and electron-dense deposits within the matrix were identified. Acid alpha-1,4-glucosidase activity was absent but associated with increased neutral maltase activity and a variable compensatory rise in activity of other lysosomal enzymes. Biochemical studies demonstrated low free carnitine, normal acylcarnitine, increased activity of carnitine palmityl and acyl transferases, and other enzymes of beta-oxidation with the notable exception of low normal beta-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. The explanation for the lipid accumulation is uncertain but is likely related to the combination of low carnitine concentration in muscle, low beta-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase, representing a rate limiting enzyme of beta-oxidation, and nonspecific defective mitochondrial function. 
Magnetic resonance images of brain stem infarct in periarteritis nodosa. A 35-year-old woman displayed unusual symptoms of progressive bulbar dysfunction. At necropsy, systemic necrotizing vasculitis and small pontine infarcts were demonstrated. The angiographic and magnetic resonance imaging findings are described. The latter investigation is a sensitive method for detecting such pontine lesions. To our knowledge, this case is the first report of magnetic resonance imaging findings of brain stem infarct in a patient with periarteritis nodosa. 
Double-blind study of Gabapentin in the treatment of partial seizures. Forty-three patients completed a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of Gabapentin (GBP) as add-on therapy in partial and secondarily generalized seizures. All patients were followed for an initial 3-month baseline period, after which they were randomly allocated to receive either a placebo or 900 or 1,200 mg/day GBP for 3 months. A statistically significant difference in seizure frequency from the baseline to the treatment phase was noted between patients receiving placebo and GBP 1,200 mg, in whom seizure frequency decreased 57%. The GBP dosage of 900 mg appeared to be ineffective. A close relationship was observed between the serum GBP concentrations and the GBP dosage based on the seizure frequency. Serum GBP concentrations greater than 2 micrograms/ml resulted in a lower frequency of seizures. The adverse effects were minor and consisted mainly of transient drowsiness. GBP appears to be effective in the treatment of partial epileptic seizures in a dosage-related manner. 
Conventional MR neuroangiography. MR angiography of the brain plays an important role in the diagnosis of vessel thrombosis and dissection, giant aneurysms, and occult vascular malformations. This essay highlights some of the features of the intra- and extracranial circulation that make conventional MR neuroangiography valuable in the demonstration of vascular anatomy and vascular disease. 
Effects of magnesium sulfate on pentylenetetrazol-induced status epilepticus. The use of magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) as an anticonvulsant is controversial. Status epilepticus was induced in 0.5% halothane-anesthetized Wistar rats with a threshold (90 mg/kg) or suprathreshold (200 mg/kg) dose of intravenous (i.v.) pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) under stereotactic hippocampal depth electrode monitoring. Fifteen minutes after seizure induction, the maximum hemodynamically tolerated dose of MgSO4 (10 mg/kg/min in 22 min) was administered i.v. MgSO4 was ineffective in altering seizure discharge. A subgroup of nine animals received hypertonic mannitol before MgSO4 to open the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to facilitate Mg2+ CNS penetration. Again MgSO4 was ineffective in attenuating epileptic activity. These results support the contention that MgSO4 is not an effective treatment for status epilepticus. We hypothesize that because Mg2+ blocks Ca2+ influx into the neuron through the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-operated calcium channel in a voltage-dependent manner it would be ineffective in neurons that are continuously depolarizing as in status epilepticus. 
The neuropsychological sequelae of attempted hanging. Only one report on the neuropsychological sequelae of attempted hanging exists in the English language. Two cases of attempted hanging with subsequent isolated memory deficits are reported. Possible mechanisms for induction of this amnesia are discussed. In these two cases it is most likely that circulatory disturbance produced by the ligatures caused ischaemic hippocampal damage, which in turn led to amnesia. 
Valve extension with glutaraldehyde-preserved autologous pericardium. Results in mitral valve repair. Preliminary experimental studies in our laboratory have shown that autologous pericardium treated with glutaraldehyde prevents late deterioration and calcification of the tissue. For this reason, glutaraldehyde-treated autologous pericardium has been used in a series of 64 patients who underwent operations for leaflet extension of the mitral valve between 1980 and 1989. Ages ranged from 2.5 to 60 years (mean 19 +/- 15). The causes of mitral valve insufficiency were rheumatic fever (69%), bacterial endocarditis (17%), congenital (8%), endomyocardial fibrosis (4.5%), and trauma (1.5%). The autologous tissue was fixed in a 0.62% glutaraldehyde solution for 15 minutes and rinsed in saline for an additional 15 minutes. Patching techniques varied depending on the site and the extent of the lesion. Associated mitral valve repair techniques (Carpentier's techniques) were mandatory in all patients. The period of follow-up extended from 6 months to 9 years (mean 3.1 +/- 2.5 years). There were no operative deaths in this series, and there was one late death (2%). In the six patients (12%) who underwent reoperation, there has been no case of calcification of the pericardial patch. Postoperative mitral valve function was assessed by bidimensional color Doppler echocardiographic techniques. Mitral valve insufficiency was trivial or absent in 80% of the patients. This experience permits us to conclude that leaflet extension is a simple and safe technique in valve reconstruction, allowing repair of mitral valves that otherwise would need to be replaced. It permits use of an adult-size prosthetic ring in children. Glutaraldehyde-treated autologous pericardium is the material of choice for this type of repair. 
Unresectable pancreatic cancer: what is the optimal procedure? We retrospectively reviewed cases of pancreatic cancer to determine the benefit of various methods of biliary decompression and the role of prophylactic gastroenterostomy (GE) in management. Twenty-seven patients had only biliary bypass, and 26 had biliary bypass and GE. Operative mortality was similar for both groups (22% and 19%, respectively). The complication rates were almost identical (37% and 35%). Differences in operative mortality, incidence of cholangitis, and recurrence of jaundice were not statistically significant between patients having biliary decompression via the common bile duct or the gallbladder. Operative mortality associated with choledochoenterostomy was 33% versus 17% for cholecystoenterostomy. Gastric outlet obstruction developed in 5% of patients who did not have GE. We conclude that cholecystojejunostomy is an effective method of biliary bypass. Because its addition did not seem to increase operative morbidity or mortality, we advocate GE at the initial exploration to prevent gastric outlet obstruction. 
Two-dimensional echocardiographic assessment of intracardiac masses in infants and children. We studied six infants and children with intracardiac masses of different causes. The diagnosis was made noninvasively using two-dimensional echocardiography in all six patients. In five patients, surgical excision of the mass was undertaken with good results. Two-dimensional echocardiography is an excellent noninvasive diagnostic tool that allows the clinician to determine the size and location of intracardiac masses in infants and children. 
Changes in sizes of cortical and lower motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It has been suggested that the degeneration of lower motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a transneuronal event, secondary to the loss of corticospinal and corticobulbar neurons. In an attempt to test this hypothesis, the cross-sectional areas of pyramidal cells in layer 5 of the foot and tongue areas of the precentral gyri were measured in 12 cases of the classical sporadic form of ALS, and in 10 control subjects. The areas of motor neurons in the hypoglossal nuclei and in the ventral horns of segment L4 of the spinal cord were also measured. The number of neurons per 20 microns section of ventral horn or hypoglossal nucleus provided a more reliable index of severity of lower motor neuron loss at the time of death than did a semiquantitative score derived from clinical observations. Cortical neurons and lower motor neurons were significantly smaller in the cases of ALS than in the controls. In the cortex this change included, but was not confined to, the largest neurons. These observations indicate that shrinkage precedes neuronal death. There was no correlation, positive or negative, between the numbers of surviving lower motor neurons and the mean sizes of pyramidal cells in layer 5 of the corresponding areas of the precentral gyri. The absence of such a correlation indicates that functionally related cortical and lower motor neurons probably degenerate independently, and not from a transsynaptic effect. Neuronal shrinkage has been observed in other diseases in which interconnected systems of neurons degenerate. The possible association of shrinkage with cytoskeletal degradation is discussed. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. Gastroesophageal reflux disease, usually manifested by frequent heartburn, occurs in approximately 10% of our adult population. The presence of a hiatal hernia is usually associated with, but does not necessarily cause, LES dysfunction, allowing acid reflux to produce esophageal and aerodigestive symptoms. The mucosa can be extensively damaged and, ultimately, a columnar lining, termed Barrett's esophagus, a premalignant condition, can develop. Treatment with H2-antagonists has been nirvana to some patients, but has proved only partially helpful to others. Adjunctive agents may increase relief and may help heal erosive esophagitis in some patients, but side effects and cost limit their use. Maintenance therapy with full doses is required, as the relapse rate for this chronic condition is high. Omeprazole temporarily heals almost everyone with otherwise resistant GERD, but it is currently used only on a short-term basis unless surgery, eminently successful in well-selected patients, is contraindicated. 
Multifocal independent epileptiform discharges in children: ictal correlates and surgical therapy. We obtained continuous EEG/video recordings on four children who had the interictal EEG pattern of multifocal independent epileptiform discharges (MIED). The prominent feature of their evaluation was the evidence that their clinical seizures appeared to be of focal origin; 42/44 seizures were manifested by "fencing postures." Three patients subsequently underwent epilepsy surgery: one focal resection of superior frontal-parietal cortex and two hemidecorticectomies. Seizure control improved in all three patients, and one patient is now seizure-free. Our patients differ from those previously reported in that they had a predominance of tonic seizures and had no history of infantile spasms or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Some patients, such as ours, with MIED may have clinical seizures of more focal origin than might be expected from their interictal EEG and, therefore, may benefit from resective epilepsy surgery. 
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome of the hand after placement of an arteriovenous graft for hemodialysis. Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (RSDS), a complex clinical syndrome characterized by pain and swelling of an affected extremity, is most commonly seen after trauma. We report the case of a woman with diabetes mellitus and chronic renal failure who presented with RSDS 5 months after placement of an arteriovenous (AV) graft for hemodialysis. The temporal relationship between RSDS and the vascular surgery suggests AV graft placement as the precipitating event for the development of RSDS. Treatment with systemic corticosteroids successfully relieved the patient's symptoms. We believe that RSDS should be included in the differential diagnosis of unexplained limb pain and swelling after AV graft placement. 
Pleomorphic melanoma mimicking sarcoma. Malignant melanoma may display a wide variety of unusual morphologic patterns that simulate unrelated neoplasms. The diagnostic approach to such complex and morphologically divergent lesions requires thorough and extensive scrutiny not only by routine light microscopy, but also by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural evaluation. We have reported the case of a patient with a mass on the heel exhibiting complex morphology that illustrates the value of such a systematic approach. 
Case of penetrating orbitocranial injury caused by wood. A case of retained intraorbital and intracerebral wooden foreign body following an orbitocranial penetrating injury through the lower lid of an adult is described. Initial failure to recognise the true nature of the injury led to intracerebral abscess formation and monocular blindness. Diagnosis and management of such cases are discussed. 
Percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted angioplasty: initial multicenter experience in 141 patients. Initial multicenter clinical experience with percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted angioplasty is described for 158 lesions in 141 patients. Using a xenon chloride (308 nm) excimer laser generator and 1.5 to 1.75 mm catheters, excimer laser angioplasty was attempted at 135 ns pulse width, 25 to 40 Hz repetition rate, 2 to 5 s laser delivery time and 30 to 60 mJ/mm2 energy fluence. Laser success (greater than 20% improvement in luminal diameter) was achieved in 138 (87%) of 158 lesions, with a reduction to less than 50% stenosis noted in 77 lesions (49%). Overall, laser-assisted balloon angioplasty success (less than 50% residual stenosis without major complication) was observed in 129 (91%) of 141 patients. Procedural complications (abrupt closure 1.3%, side branch occlusion 1.9%, intimal dissection 6.3%, embolization 1.3%, filling defect 1.3%, perforation 1.9% and spasm 1.3% and major complications (non-Q wave myocardial infarction 4.8%, emergency coronary bypass surgery 3.5% and death 0%) were infrequent and predominantly related to subsequent balloon angioplasty. In the early follow-up period (range 1 to 10 months, mean 7), 111 (79%) of the 141 patients remain asymptomatic, whereas symptoms have recurred in 27 (19%) and 3 patients (2.1%) have died. Thus, percutaneous coronary excimer laser angioplasty appears to be a feasible and safe procedure. Assessment of the impact of this technology on the acute complications of and restenosis rates after angioplasty awaits further follow-up analysis. 
Transient porphyrinemia in a liver transplant recipient. We report a case of acquired porphyrinemia in a liver transplant recipient. Thrombosis of the portal vein and hepatic artery led to massive necrosis of the patient's first donor liver, necessitating its removal. After an 18-hour anhepatic period, a second donor liver was transplanted. During this interval, the patient was warmed with an infrared heat lamp that emitted bright visible light. Following the anhepatic period, a photodistributed cutaneous erythema was noted. The level of total serum porphyrins during the anhepatic period was significantly elevated at 1.548 mumol/L (normal, less than 0.018 mumol/L). Fractionation showed that the levels of the hydrophobic porphyrins, coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin, were elevated, while the levels of the hydrophilic porphyrins remained normal. Following the successful second liver transplantation, the patient's porphyrin levels declined. This is the first reported case of acquired porphyrinemia in a liver transplant recipient. 
The bottom end. Handling of the perineal wound after abdominoperineal resection. There are a number of options for handling the perineal wound following abdominoperineal resection, including open packing or primary closure with suction drainage. Open packing has not been widely accepted, fearing that it may delay perineal wound healing. The purpose of this paper, therefore, was to retrospectively evaluate, the experience at Ferguson Hospital with abdominoperineal resection from 1977 through 1986. The study population consisted of 288 patients undergoing abdominoperineal resection for rectal adenocarcinoma. Forty-six patients had the perineal wound closed primarily and 242 had the perineal wound packed open. Ninety-four patients had the pelvic peritoneum left open and 194 underwent closure of the pelvic peritoneum. Overall operative mortality was 2.1 per cent, and there was no significant difference between primary closure and open packing of the perineal wound with respect to hospital stay, operating time, operative blood loss, perioperative mortality, incidence of postoperative bowel obstruction, incidence of postoperative complications, or average time for perineal wound healing. Therefore, it would appear that packing the perineal wound following abdominoperineal resection is a viable means of handling the bottom end. 
Chylothorax complicating right upper lobectomy. Chylothorax after pleuropulmonary surgery is unusual. We have described the case of a patient in whom this complication followed a right upper lobectomy. Early recognition is important to avoid potential morbidity and mortality. 
Syndrome of severe skin disease, eosinophilia, and dermatopathic lymphadenopathy in patients with HTLV-II complicating human immunodeficiency virus infection. Two intravenous drug users dually infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and human T-cell leukemia virus type II (HTLV-II) developed an unusual severe dermatitis characterized by progressive brawny induration, fissuring, and ulceration of the skin, with an associated CD8 cell infiltration in one patient. Both patients had persistent eosinophilia. Lymph node biopsy revealed dermatopathic lymphadenopathy, an unusual pathologic finding in HIV-1 infection but one seen in association with mycosis fungoides and other skin disorders. Two new isolates of HTLV-II virus were established from these patients and were identified as HTLV-II by Southern blotting. This type of skin disease and lymph node pathology has not been found in other intravenous drug users who have been infected with HIV-1 alone or in patients in other risk groups for HIV-1 infection. HTLV-II may play a role in this unique new disease pattern in patients infected with HIV-1. 
Hypoglossal-facial nerve interpositional-jump graft for facial reanimation without tongue atrophy. The hemitongue paralysis that occurs as a result of a classic hypoglossal-facial nerve crossover procedure can result in profound functional deficits in speech, mastication, and swallowing. The procedure is not an option in patients with bilateral facial paralysis or those at risk for combined cranial nerve deficits. To address some of the drawbacks and limitations of this classic procedure, we developed the hypoglossal-facial nerve interpositional jump graft (12-7 jump graft) procedure. This procedure involves interposing a nerve graft between a partially severed but functionally intact twelfth cranial nerve and the degenerated seventh cranial nerve, and is often combined with other reanimation procedures. To date, we have performed 33 12-7 jump graft procedures in 30 patients (three were treated for bilateral facial paralysis); this report describes the procedure and its indications, and details the results of 23 procedures performed in 20 patients for whom 24-month follow-up data are available. Twelfth nerve deficits occurred in only three patients in this report. Recovery of facial function began between 3 and 24 months postoperatively. Facial tone and symmetry were achieved in every patient, no patient had significant mass movement, and 13 patients (two of whom were treated for bilateral facial paralysis) had excellent and three had superb restoration of facial movement. These results show the 12-7 jump graft to be a valuable adjunct for facial reanimation in selected patients. 
Traumatic rupture of the stomach after Heimlich maneuver. Fatal complications following the performance of the Heimlich maneuver have been reported. A 76-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with signs of respiratory distress, abdominal pain and distension one day after airway obstruction and subsequent resuscitation. Despite successful immediate laparotomy and repair of a ruptured stomach, she later succumbed to the sequelae of aspiration of gastric contents and dehiscence of the gastric tear. This is the 4th case of stomach rupture and the 7th reported fatal complication following the Heimlich maneuver. It is recommended that persons who undergo the Heimlich maneuver be examined and observed by a physician, as soon as possible, to rule out complications. 
A new mouse mutant with progressive motor neuronopathy. A new autosomal-recessive mouse mutant with progressive motor neuronopathy (pmn) is described. Homozygotes develop paralysis of the hindlimbs during the third week of life. Soon thereafter the forelimbs also become weak, and all mice die six to seven weeks after birth. Heterozygotes are normal. Skeletal muscles show neurogenic atrophy without histological signs of reinnervation. Axonal degeneration apparently starts at the endplates and is prominent in the sciatic nerve and its branches and the phrenic nerve. Axonal sprouts are abundant. There is no evidence of demyelination, and unaffected nerve fibers are normally myelinated. Sensory axons are spared. Almost all distal motor axons have disappeared in four to five weeks after birth. Ventral nerve roots show a reduced diameter of the largest fibers but no fiber deficits. The ventral horn cells show slight chromatolysis. The corticospinal tract is normal, but in terminally ill animals the fasciculus gracilis, the rubrospinal tract and possibly also reticulospinal fibers degenerate. The brain is histologically normal. The disease manifests itself in a dying-back fashion in the distal portion of the motor neurons and may represent an animal model of hereditary motor neuron diseases in man. 
Salmonella myonecrosis in a patient with diabetes mellitus. Bacterial myonecrosis is a medical and surgical emergency and prompt surgical intervention is critically important. A variety of microorganisms have been isolated from patients with necrotizing soft-tissue infections. These infections are frequently polymicrobial in etiology, but occasionally a single microorganism is isolated. This report describes a case of crepitant myonecrosis from infection with Salmonella serogroup B. 
Retinal thickness analysis for quantitative assessment of diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema is a major cause of vision loss and is evaluated with qualitative or semiquantitative techniques. A new quantitative method for assessment of macular edema using retinal thickness analysis was applied to 19 patients with diabetic macular edema. Foveal thickening was frequently coupled with poor visual acuity. Slit-lamp biomicroscopy and stereophotography detected 80% and 78% of local areas of thickening, respectively, but failed to detect locations with average thicknesses of 1.5 and 1.6 times normal, respectively. Fluorescein leakage on angiography was generally associated with retinal thickening, but locations with similar degrees of leakage had widely varying retinal thickening. Fluorescein leakage in the posterior vitreous correlated poorly with the degree of foveal thickening. These results indicate that quantitative measurement of retinal thickness may become useful in the management of diabetic patients with macular edema. 
Treatment of acute migraine with subcutaneous sumatriptan. Sumatriptan succinate, a 5-HT1D receptor agonist, constricts human cranial arteries. Two parallel-group trials for treatment of acute migraines were conducted in the United States. Adult patients were randomized and given either 6 mg of sumatriptan succinate subcutaneously (n = 734) or placebo (n = 370). At 1 hour, sumatriptan was significantly more effective than placebo in reducing moderate or severe headache pain to mild or no pain (70% vs 22%), in completely relieving headaches (49% vs 9%), and in improving clinical disability (76% vs 34%). Sumatriptan also reduced nausea and photophobia significantly better than placebo. Patients with residual migraines received another injection; those who had originally received sumatriptan received either a second active injection (n = 187) or placebo (n = 178), while those who had received placebo received a second placebo injection (n = 335). Statistical evidence for benefit of second sumatriptan injection is absent. Adverse events associated with sumatriptan were tingling, dizziness, warm-hot sensations, and injection-site reactions. Sumatriptan is effective and well tolerated in patients with acute migraine. 
The clinical and endocrine outcome to trans-sphenoidal microsurgery of nonsecreting pituitary adenomas. From 1962 to 1987, 126 patients underwent trans-sphenoidal surgery for primary treatment of pituitary adenomas unassociated with clinical or biochemical evidence of hormonal overproduction. There were 73 male and 53 female patients (mean age, 50 +/- 12 years). Before surgery, 56% of the patients (70 of 124) had headaches, 74% (94 of 126) had deterioration of vision, and 12% (15 of 126) had ophthalmoplegia. Endocrine evaluation revealed the presence of hypogonadism in 75% (87 of 115), adrenal insufficiency in 36% (46 of 126), and hypothyroidism in 18% (21 of 122). Plasma prolactin was increased in 65% (56 of 86) with a mean level of 39 +/- 14 micrograms/l (normal, 3 to 20 micrograms/l). Radiologic enlargement of the sella turcica was documented in all cases: 67% (84 of 126) had enclosed and 33% (42 of 126) had invasive adenomas. After surgery, vision was normalized or improved in 75% (71 of 94) of the patients. Thyroid, adrenal, and gonadal functions were improved in 14% (three of 22), 41% (19 of 46), 11% (ten of 87), were unchanged in 82% (100 of 122), 77% (97 of 126), 89% (102 of 115), and worsened in 15% (19 of 22), 8% (ten of 126), 3% (102 of 115), respectively. Permanent diabetes insipidus occurred in 5% (seven of 126). Two patients died during the immediate postoperative period. The recurrence rate in patients with a mean follow-up of 6.4 +/- 4.2 years was 21% (15 of 71). These data indicate that trans-sphenoidal microsurgery is an effective and safe initial treatment for patients with nonsecreting pituitary adenoma and may reverse hypopituitarism. 
Otologic sequelae after pneumococcal meningitis: a survey of 164 consecutive cases with a follow-up of 94 survivors. As part of a comprehensive study on sequelae after pneumococcal meningitis, 94 of 111 consecutive survivors were re-examined 4 to 16 years after discharge. Twenty-three patients had otological sequelae after pneumococcal meningitis. In these patients, 17 had hearing losses, 7 had tinnitus, 9 had vertigo, 13 had vestibular areflexia, 4 had loss of smell, and 3 had loss of taste. Among the patients with hearing loss, 4 were bilaterally deaf, 6 were unilaterally deaf, and 2 had mild and 5 had slight hearing losses. From correlations with extensive data from the medical records, preadmission antibiotic treatment appeared to protect from acousticovestibular damage. Purulent otitis media and otosurgical intervention did not correlate to the fatality rate or the development of sequelae. Acute purulent otitis media appeared as a concomitant manifestation, rather than the focus of pneumococcal meningitis. 
Fibrocystic disease of the breast in premenopausal women: histohormonal correlation and response to luteinizing hormone releasing hormone analog treatment. Sixty-six patients with fibrocystic mastopathy were enrolled in the trial after being selected according to clinical, radioultrasonographic, and histologic criteria. No characteristic hormonal profile was noted in most patients (52%). Estrogen receptors or progesterone receptors, or both, were found in 57% of patients. Hormone receptor levels were correlated with atypical proliferative mastopathy (87.5%). Mastopathy was associated with a uterine fibroma or a fibromatous uterus in 73% of cases. All patients received intramuscular injections of a sustained delivery system (microcapsules) of luteinizing hormone releasing hormone agonist [D-Trp6]-LHRH, Ipsen-Biotech, Paris) for 3 to 6 months. In case of partial response at 3 months, an antiestrogen (tamoxifen, 40 mg/day, for estrogen receptor-predominant lesions) or a progestin (cyproterone acetate, 50 mg/day, for progesterone receptor-predominant lesions) was added to the luteinizing hormone releasing hormone agonist. A complete response was observed in more than half of the patients (n = 35, 53%) treated by [D-Trp6]-LHRH alone (n = 29) or associated with tamoxifen (n = 4) or cyproterone acetate (n = 2). A significant partial response was observed in 30 other patients (45%). Additionally, half of them received inhibitory drugs. The best responses were seen with cyst reformation (complete response, 100%) and fibrous block. Clinical responses to treatment with [D-Trp6]-LHRH alone were independent of hormone receptor status, but synergistic effects occurred with concomitant use of the corresponding inhibitory drugs. We conclude that chronic mastopathy, particularly when associated with uterine fibroma, can be successfully treated by luteinizing hormone releasing hormone analogs in premenopausal women. 
Median lip fissure: etiology and suggested treatment. In a prospective study of 20 patients with median lip fissure, pedigrees were obtained. A hereditary predisposition for weakness in the first branchial arch fusion seems to exist. In some persons, more often in males than in females, this weakness eventually leads to development of a median lip fissure. The fissure becomes symptomatic when it is infected. In 10 patients the fissure was excised; in the other 10 patients excision was done in combination with a Z-plasty of the center of the lesion. The prognosis with the latter operation was superior to that with the former. 
Patient selection for mechanical circulatory support as a bridge to cardiac transplantation. Between 7/87 and 9/90 thirty-four patients underwent total artificial heart (Berlin Heart) (n = 2) or biventricular assist device (Berlin Heart) (n = 32) implantation as a bridge to cardiac transplantation. The time of mechanical support ranged from 2 to 60 days, for a mean of 19.2 days. Twenty-three patients received heart transplants, with 74% 30-day survival and 52% long-term survival. Implantation of a mechanical support system became indicated in those patients whose hemodynamic and clinical condition deteriorated despite treatment with enoximone in addition to maximal sympathomimetic medication. The strategy to administer enoximone routinely was the result of a prospective study on 24 pretransplant patients in whom enoximone therapy reduced the need for mechanical assistance by 62%. At the time of device implantation shock-related organ impairment such as cerebral, renal, hepatic, and respiratory dysfunction was present in 62% of patients. In addition, 7 patients had pneumonia. During mechanical support complete recovery of end-organ failure and resolution of pneumonia was observed in the majority of patients. The results indicate that end-organ dysfunction per se should not be considered a contraindication to mechanical circulatory support as a bridge to cardiac transplantation. However, further clinical investigations are needed to identify predictive indicators of irreversible organ damage. 
Tissue plasminogen activator-associated lingual artery hemorrhage. Reported is the case of a patient with vertebrobasilar artery ischemia who received tissue plasminogen activator with resulting hemorrhage into the tongue and nearly exsanguinating hemorrhage from a branch of the lingual artery. Suggestions for immediate management of the hemorrhage as well as prevention are presented. As the use of thrombolytic agents increases and the list of their indications expands, unusual life-threatening hemorrhagic problems other than gastrointestinal or intracranial bleeding will be seen, and management decisions may be life saving. 
A practical approach to laparoscopic cholecystectomy. A prospective study of 500 consecutive cholecystectomies was initiated with the introduction of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was attempted in 96% of patients presenting with primary gallbladder disease and was completed in 95%. There were no deaths or bile duct injuries. Two patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy were transfused for postoperative bleeding, and only one patient required reoperation for any reason. A prospective study showed reduced operating time (20 minutes) and patient charges ($546) using electrosurgical dissection compared with laser. Reusable trocars were used without any associated injury or morbidity. An effective strategy for selective cholangiography was developed based on patient history, liver enzymes, and common duct diameter. In conclusion, laparoscopic cholecystectomy appears to be a safe operation. The cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be enhanced ($1,271) with no loss of patient benefit using the combination of electrosurgery, reusable trocars, and selective cholangiograms in low-risk patients. 
Mammographically detected breast cancer. Results with conservative surgery and radiation therapy. At Yale-New Haven Hospital (New Haven, CT) treatment of early stage breast cancer with conservative surgery and radiation therapy (CS & RT) has been utilized with increasing frequency since the 1960s. The authors have reviewed their experience with specific reference to the outcome of those patients whose breast cancer was detected on routine screening mammography. To achieve adequate follow-up, only patients treated before December 1984 are included in this analysis. Of 438 patients treated with CS & RT before December 1984, a total of 41 patients (9%) had nonpalpable lesions detected on routine screening mammography and were treated with CS & RT to the intact breast. Only two patients received adjuvant hormonal therapy and no patients received adjuvant systemic therapy. There has been only one breast failure and one death due to cancer in this group of patients resulting in actuarial survival and breast recurrence-free rates of 100% at 5 years and 92% at 10 years. These results stress the importance of routine screening mammography and raise questions regarding the role of adjuvant systemic therapy in this selected group of patients. 
Inhibition of Moloney murine leukemia virus-induced leukemia in transgenic mice expressing antisense RNA complementary to the retroviral packaging sequences. Recombinant plasmids pLP psi as and pCP psi as were constructed by positioning the Moloney murine leukemia virus (M-MuLV) proviral packaging (psi) sequences in reverse orientation under the transcriptional regulation of lymphotropic promoter/regulatory elements from the M-MuLV long terminal repeat or the cytomegalovirus immediate-early region. Linear fragments containing the antisense psi and the appropriate transcriptional regulatory sequences from these plasmids were introduced into the mouse germ line by zygote microinjection. The chromosomal integration, germ-line transmission, and lymphocyte-directed expression of the antisense psi RNA were confirmed. Control (nontransgenic) and transgenic mice containing either the pLP psi as or the pCP psi as sequences were infected with M-MuLV on the day of birth and assayed for signs of leukemia between 12 and 14 weeks of age with standard assay procedures. While 31% (11 of 36) of the control, nontransgenic, mice developed leukemia, none of the antisense psi transgenic mice developed any symptoms of leukemia. The pCP psi as sequences were also introduced into mouse NIH 3T3 cells and stably transformed cell lines were isolated. When infected with M-MuLV these cells were shown to produce virus devoid of packaged viral RNA. 
Mass screening in Japan increased the detection of infants with neuroblastoma without a decrease in cases in older children. Analysis of data from the Kanto-Ko-Shin-Etsu Branch of the Japan Children's Cancer Registry revealed that mass screening for neuroblastoma increased the detection of cases in infants younger than 1 year from about 25% before screening to about 50%, and the percentage of neuroblastomas among all pediatric cancers almost doubled, from approximately 10% to 19.3%. However, when the cases found on screening were subtracted, the numbers after the onset of mass screening were similar to those before screening. It is likely that neuroblastoma mass screening has identified a unique type of tumor, which may not be recognized without mass screening, rather than that it has contributed to the earlier diagnosis of tumors in older children. 
Usefulness of flecainide for prevention of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter. Danish-Norwegian Flecainide Multicenter Study Group. To evaluate the efficacy of flecainide acetate in the prevention of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter, 43 patients (23 men) (mean age 53 years) were randomized blindly to receive either placebo or 150 mg of flecainide twice per day for consecutive periods of 3 months. Attacks were verified by a minielectrocardiogram event recorder. If intolerable symptoms developed, the protocol allowed patients to cross over between treatments before the end of the first 3-month period. Four patients crossed over prematurely, between 1 week and 1 month, and 15 between 1 month and 3 months. The remaining 24 patients completed both 3-month periods. In all 3 treatment intervals, there was a significant reduction in the number of attacks during flecainide treatment (p less than 0.002). Complete suppression was seen in 15 of 43 patients (35%) treated with flecainide for 1 week, in 18 of 39 (46%) treated for 1 month and in 12 of 24 (50%) completing all 3 months in each period. Adverse effects were reported in 32 of the 43 patients (74%) treated with flecainide, but only 2 were withdrawals. One patient died suddenly. In comparison, 3 of 43 patients (7%) reported adverse effects in the placebo group. In conclusion, flecainide significantly suppressed the number of attacks of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter. Adverse effects were frequent but were mostly tolerable. 
Plasma renin activity in renal transplant patients with hypertension. Chronic renal allograft rejection (CR) is the major cause of graft loss after 1 year following transplantation. Hypertension (HTN) and proteinuria (Up) are the hallmarks of this immunologic allograft response. Over 1 year, 23 patients posttransplantation and with HTN (diastolic greater than 95 mm Hg) were examined. Serial serum creatinine (Scr), Up, urine creatinine (Ucr), and resting and enalapril challenged (EC) plasma renin activity (PRA) were all determined. Renal artery stenosis was excluded by noninvasive imaging. Of the 23 patients, eight eventually lost their renal allografts, while 15 maintained satisfactory renal function (Scr less than 2.5). Results of this study show that: 1) worsening renal function (RF) increases EC reactivity; 2) the presence of proteinuria is not itself related to increase in EC activity; 3) renin before and after EC was higher (P = .06) in the allograft loss group. In this study, patients with high PRA represent the highest EC responses. Therefore, they display not macrovascular lesions, but microvascular intrarenal disease; this defect is most likely secondary to chronic immunologic insult. 
Gastrointestinal complications in 4473 patients who underwent cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Thirty-nine gastrointestinal complications occurred in 35 of 4473 patients (0.78 per cent) who underwent surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass during an 8-year period. The mortality rate when one of these complications occurred was 22 (63 per cent) representing 11.5 per cent of the 191 deaths from all causes in the series. The relative risk of developing a gastrointestinal complication was 1:249 when the heart was not opened, 1:66 when it was and 1:5 after cardiac transplantation. Gastrointestinal bleeding (n = 20) was the most common complication of whom nine (45 per cent) died, followed by intestinal infarction (n = 12) with eight (67 per cent) deaths and acute pancreatitis (n = 6) all of whom died. There was one death after surgery for gastrointestinal bleeding (n = 7). No patient survived bowel infarction without operation but resection was possible in five of the eight who underwent surgery, four of whom survived. The results demonstrate that surgical intervention is not associated with undue mortality but inappropriate conservative therapy is poorly tolerated in this high-risk group. 
Second operation after the failure of previous resection for epilepsy. We present our surgical experience with second operations in 15 patients with recurrent intractable partial seizures after resection for epilepsy. The interval from the first operation until the first recurrence of seizures ranged from 1 day to 7 months (mean, 62 days). The interval between the first and second operations ranged from 3 months to 12 years (mean, 38 months). Detailed video-electroencephalographic interictal and ictal recording was performed in all patients (invasive electrodes were used in 11 patients). Ictal onset was shown to be remote from the zone of previous resection in 3 of 15 cases (all 3 extratemporal and in the ipsilateral hemisphere). Recurrent seizures arose from the area of previous extratemporal resection in 2 of 15 patients, and from the area of previous temporal resection in 10 of 15 patients. Both cases of extratemporal recurrences and 3 of the 10 cases of temporal lobe recurrences in the area of previous resection were associated with residual unresected structural lesion. Of the 10 patients with local temporal recurrence, 6 had proven epileptogenicity in the residual mesial structures, and 4 had residual epileptogenicity in the unresected lateral temporal lobe. The patients have been monitored for 8 to 82 months (mean, 18 months) after the second operation: 7 patients (47%) have remained seizure-free and another 5 (33%) have achieved a reduction in seizure frequency of more than 90%. There was no mortality or significant morbidity in this series. We conclude that the extent and distribution of residual epileptogenicity after failed epilepsy surgery are highly variable. 
Low-back pain and disk degeneration in children: a case-control MR imaging study. Thirty-nine 15-year-old children with low-back pain (LBP) and 39 asymptomatic control children were selected from a population of 1,503 children of the same age for a magnetic resonance imaging study of the lumbar spine. Subjects with LBP were matched with control subjects by age, sex, and school class. Disk degeneration (DD) was present in 15 (38%) of the children with LBP and in 10 (26%) of the control subjects. Lumbar degeneration was most frequently associated with disk protrusion and Scheuermann-type changes. Of assessed structural abnormalities (disk protrusion, Scheuermann-type changes, transitional vertebra, and disk space narrowing), only disk protrusion was more common in children of the LBP group than in control subjects. The authors conclude that DD is a frequent finding among children with LBP at the age of 15 years. Asymptomatic (possibly physiologic) DD also is frequently found in children of this age. Whether DD associated with structural changes predisposes to low-back disorders can be confirmed only by means of a longitudinal follow-up study. 
In vivo phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy of normal and pathological breast tissues. In vivo phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy, at 1.5 T, in addition to magnetic resonance imaging and mammography, was performed on the breast tissue of 59 subjects, using a 40 mm or 80 mm surface coil for spectral localization. The patients were divided into three groups: Group 1, 46 control subjects; Group 2, nine patients with breast carcinoma; Group 3, four patients with benign breast disease. The relationship of age, menopausal status, breast size and pattern, use of contraceptive pill and history of breast disease to spectral characteristics of breast tissue was examined for the control group. In multivariate analysis, only menopausal status and age were found to be significantly related to tissue biochemistry. Pre-menopausal women had reduced phosphocreatine (PCr) (%) (p = 0.02), and increased phosphomonoesters (PMEs) and beta-nucleotide triphosphate (beta-NTP) (%) (p = 0.05), while the fat-to-water ratio was higher in older women (p = 0.02). No significant differences were identified between the control subjects and the patients with benign breast disease. When spectra from patients with breast carcinoma were compared with an age-matched volunteer group, alpha- and gamma-NTP (%) were found to be higher in the cancer tissue (p less than 0.01 and p = 0.01, respectively), while PCr (%) was reduced (p less than 0.01). The ratio beta-NTP:PCr was higher in the carcinoma group of patients (p less than 0.05). In vivo phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy is a non-invasive examination which may prove useful in the early differentiation of malignant breast disease from normal and benign conditions. 
Preservation of urine voiding and sexual function after rectal cancer surgery In order to decrease the urinary and sexual morbidity which follows radical pelvic lymphadenectomy for rectal cancer, we began selective preservation of the pelvic autonomic nerves. Between 1985 and 1987, 134 patients with rectal cancer underwent a curative resection (52 abdominoperineal resections, 82 sphincter-saving resections) with extended pelvic lymphadenectomy and selective pelvic autonomic nerve preservation (PANP). PANP was classified into five degrees depending on the extent of pelvic dissection. First-degree PANP indicates complete preservation of the nerves; second-degree PANP indicates destruction of the hypogastric plexus: third-degree PANP indicates partial preservation of the pelvic autonomic plexus; fourth-degree PANP indicates bilateral or unilateral preservation of only the fourth pelvic parasympathetic nerve; and fifth-degree PANP indicates complete destruction of the pelvic autonomic nerves. Most patients with first-degree PANP were able to spontaneously void 7-10 days following the operation. However, 78 percent (28/36) of patients with fifth-degree PANP had not regained bladder sensation by the third postoperative week and were discharged with an indwelling catheter; 58 percent (21/36) had not regained bladder sensation by the 60th postoperative day. The cystometric data indicate a progressive decline in bladder sensation and function with increasingly extensive pelvic dissection. However, preservation of only the fourth parasympathetic nerve (fourth-degree PANP) resulted in partial sparing of bladder sensation and voiding function. Evaluation of sexual function in males under 60 years of age revealed that only 31 percent (12/39) recovered erectile function and only 19 percent (6/39) recovered normal ejaculatory function in the first postoperative year. Most of these patients had complete preservation of their pelvic autonomic plexus (i.e., first-degree PANP). Four patients with partial PANP have recovered erectile function. Complete PANP is the best way to prevent urinary and sexual morbidity after rectal resection. The opposing goals of maximizing the chance for cure and minimizing morbidity must be individualized and balanced in each patient. Our data demonstrate that it is now possible to perform radical pelvic lymphadenectomy in the majority of patients with advanced rectal cancer with a minimum of voiding dysfunction. Preservation of sexual function in males is more difficult and depends on complete PANP and, as such, should be restricted to the group of patients with Dukes' A and B carcinomas. 
Expression of perforin in infiltrating cells in murine hearts with acute myocarditis caused by coxsackievirus B3. BACKGROUND. Cell-mediated autoimmunity has been strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of viral myocarditis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using a murine model of acute myocarditis caused by coxsackievirus B3, we analyzed the phenotypes and morphology of the infiltrating cells in the hearts by immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. We also examined the expression of a cytolytic factor, perforin, in the infiltrating cells by immunoperoxidase and in situ hybridization. We found that the dominant population of the infiltrating cells were asialo GM1 positive, were negative for T-cell markers, and had electron-dense cytoplasmic granules, which is consistent with a morphology of large granular lymphocytes. Perforin was found in the cytoplasmic granules of the infiltrating cells expressing perforin messenger RNA. These findings provide for the first time the direct evidence that the first wave of cell infiltration in hearts mainly consists of killer cells and strongly suggests that perforin plays, in part, an important role in myocardial cell damage involved in acute viral myocarditis. T-helper cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes made up the second wave of cell infiltration. CONCLUSIONS. As we previously reported, the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I antigen on cardiac myocytes induced by the infiltrating cells, such as killer cells, may facilitate the interaction between cardiac myocytes and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and may lead to further myocardial cell damage in a later phase. 
Management of foreskin problems. One hundred consecutive cases of boys with foreskin problems referred to local paediatric surgeons in the Edinburgh area were studied. Fifty five underwent circumcision and the remainder were managed more conservatively with or without the use of local or general anaesthetic. Although sometimes avoiding general anaesthetic, the more conservative methods involved more frequent visits to the clinic, a larger number of complications, and a longer follow up period. Despite the vogue for conservatism, circumcision still has an important part to play in the management of troublesome foreskins in children. 
Metabolic markers of stress-induced myocardial ischemia. The human heart in the fasting state extracts free fatty acids (FFA), glucose, lactate, pyruvate, and ketones from circulating blood. The utilization of FFA accounts for most of the oxygen consumed and energy produced at rest. Patients with angiographically demonstrable coronary artery disease and stable angina pectoris have a resting myocardial metabolism similar to that of normal individuals. During atrial pacing in normal persons, there is a significant enhancement of glucose uptake but that of FFA is unchanged, and the oxidation of carbohydrates accounts for more than 60% of the energy produced. In patients with stable angina, myocardial perfusion becomes regionally inadequate during stress. Despite the increase of myocardial glucose utilization, carbohydrate oxidation is negligible. Pyruvate will not be oxidized but in the presence of increased amounts of reduced coenzymes will be reduced to lactate. In addition, a greater amount of alanine will be released by the myocardium through the transamination of pyruvate, with a concomitantly greater uptake of glutamate that serves as the NH2 donor. In addition, glutamate may be used as an anaerobic fuel through conversion to succinate coupled with GTP formation. Although coronary hemodynamics, including myocardial perfusion, return to baseline within a few minutes after stress, a longer time course is needed for myocardial metabolism to become normal. In particular, myocardial utilization of exogenous glucose remains higher well after the normalization of hemodynamic parameters. This is more pronounced in postischemic myocardium, but it also occurs in nonischemic muscle, and glucose is presumably used for rebuilding glycogen stores that were depleted during ischemia. 
Risk factors in relation to postoperative complications and mortality after total gastrectomy in aged patients. To clarify the risk factors contributing to postoperative complications in elderly patients undergoing total gastrectomy, 84 patients with primary gastric cancer were evaluated. Twenty-seven patients were older than 65 years of age; they had much more preoperative cardiac (P = 0.00003), respiratory (P = 0.0008), and multiorgan impairment (P = 0.009) than did the control group (age less than 65 yrs). Although overall morbidities (44.4% vs. 19.2%; P = 0.01) and overall septic complication rates (33.3% vs. 12.2%; P = 0.02) were higher in aged patients, no significant differences between the two groups were found in the incidence of major surgical complications (18.5% in aged patients vs. 10.5% in control groups; P = NS), serious septic (sepsis score greater than 10) complications (18.5% vs. 7.0%; P = NS) and hospital mortalities (11.1% vs. 3.5%; P = NS). In older patients the occurrence of multiorgan impairment and malnutrition was significantly related to postoperative complication rates. These results suggest that the degree of organ impairment rather than age is predictive of postoperative difficulty and should be used in assessing preoperative risk. 
Total occlusion of the circumflex artery with collateral supply from the conus artery. The conus artery has long been recognized as an important source of collateral blood supply to a significantly diseased left anterior descending artery. This artery which arises 50% of the time from a separate orifice in the right sinus of Valsalva may also provide collateral circulation to a diseased right coronary artery. To date, there have been no reported instances of the conus artery supplying collateral flow to a totally occluded circumflex artery. In this report we describe such a case in a patient with severe three vessel disease. The implications of such a finding in patient management are also discussed. 
Common bile duct distensibility after cholecystectomy. To assess the possibility of common bile duct distensibility after cholecystectomy, we made a retrospective study of patients who had ultrasonography and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). The study comprised 52 patients without extrahepatic biliary obstruction; 19 had had cholecystectomy, 18 of whom complained of biliary colic similar to that they had had originally. The other 33 patients had intact, well visualized gallbladders; 15 of these patients had pain in the right upper quadrant or epigastrium, but none had chronic pancreatitis. The average diameter of the common bile duct at its widest point by ultrasonography was 4.8 mm (range, 4.0 to 9.0 mm) in the 33 patients with intact gallbladders, and 5.7 mm (range, 4.0 to 8.0 mm) in the 19 patients who had had cholecystectomy. The diameter by ERCP was 4.4 mm (range, 2.9 to 6.3 mm) in the patients with intact gallbladders, and 11.17 mm (range, 6.9 to 14.7 mm) in the patients who had had cholecystectomy. In each patient who had had cholecystectomy the diameter as measured by ERCP was larger than it appeared by ultrasonography. The results suggest that the common bile duct is distensible, and that this distensibility may be related to the postcholecystectomy syndrome. 
Can colon cancer incidence and death rates be reduced with calcium and vitamin D? It was proposed in 1980 that vitamin D and calcium could reduce the risk of colon cancer. This assertion was based on the decreasing gradient of mortality rates from north to south, suggesting a mechanism related to a favorable influence of ultraviolet-induced vitamin D metabolites on metabolism of calcium. A 19-y prospective study of 1954 Chicago men found that a dietary intake of greater than 3.75 micrograms vitamin D/d was associated with a 50% reduction in the incidence of colorectal cancer, whereas an intake of greater than or equal to 1200 mg Ca/d was associated with a 75% reduction. Clinical and laboratory studies further support these findings. A nested case-control study based on serum drawn from a cohort of 25,620 individuals reported that moderately elevated concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D, in the range 65-100 nmol/L, were associated with large reductions (P less than 0.05) in the incidence of colorectal cancer. 
Selective contraindications based on multivariate analysis for operative cholangiography in biliary lithiasis. This study was done to select patients with a low risk of common bile duct (CBD) stones in whom operative cholangiography could be avoided. Operative cholangiography was performed upon 511 patients. Two different groups of patients were identified--patients with CBD stones visualized by CBD exploration (n = 90) and patients with no CBD stones at the time of operative cholangiography (n = 421). Multivariate analysis (stepwise logistic regression) showed that five variables were correlated with the presence of CBD stones--size of CBD equal to or greater than 12 millimeters, gallstones equal to or less than 10 millimeters, advanced age, chronic or acute cholecystitis and past history of biliary colic. Using a scoring system, a group of patients with a low risk (less than 2 percent) of CBD stones could be easily determined. In this group of patients, operative cholangiography may be avoided. 
A case for early surgery in native left-sided endocarditis complicated by heart failure: results in 203 patients From January 1982 to December 1988, 203 consecutive patients were selected for early valve replacement (mean 10 days from time of admission) if they had clinical evidence of native valve endocarditis with 1) vegetations on echocardiography, 2) severe valvular lesions, and 3) heart failure. Surgery was performed within 7 days of admission in 56% of patients and was done urgently because of hemodynamic deterioration in 108 (53%). All vegetations were identified by echocardiography and confirmed macroscopically at surgery. One hundred ten patients had isolated aortic valve infection, 50 had isolated mitral valve infection (p less than 0.05 for aortic vs. mitral) and 43 had double-valve infection. Mean aortic cross-clamp time was 57, 38 and 67 min, respectively. Sixty-four patients (32%) had extensive infection involving the anulus or adjacent tissues, or both; such infection more frequently involved the aortic than the mitral valve (p less than 0.05). Thirty-eight patients (35%) with aortic valve infection had abscess formation compared with 1 patient (2%) with mitral valve infection (p less than 0.05). Only eight patients (4%) died in the hospital. There were seven patients (3%) with a periprosthetic leak and five patients (3%) with early prosthetic valve endocarditis. Long-term follow-up, available in 174 hospital survivors (89%), revealed 10 deaths and two new ring leaks at 38 +/- 22 months. In conclusion, among patients with endocarditis who need surgery for heart failure, aortic valve infection is more prevalent than mitral valve infection and is more often associated with extensive infection, including abscess formation. 
Hemopericardium: a late complication after repair of pectus excavatum. Hemopericardium and tamponade occurred in a 12 year old boy with Marfan's syndrome, two years after surgical repair of pectus excavatum. This life-threatening complication resulted from penetration of a fractured metal plate through the pericardium into the right atrium. The clinical details are reported and discussed. 
Loss of transforming growth factor beta 1 receptors and its effects on the growth of EBV-transformed human B cells. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a potent negative regulator of normal human B cell growth mediated by exogenous signals, including IL-2 and low m.w. B cell growth factor 12 kDa (BCGF-12 kDa). In the present study, we investigated the regulatory linkage between viral or nonviral transformation of human B cells and the growth inhibitory effects of TGF-beta 1. A panel of EBV+ and EBV- B cell lines, derived either by in vitro EBV B cell transformation, or from cases of lymphoma was used to quantitate the negative growth effects of TGF-beta 1. The proliferative response of three EBV- B cell lines to rBCGF-12 kDa or serum was inhibited by low concentrations of TGF-beta 1 (0.2-0.5 ng/ml for 50% maximal effect), as measured by tritiated thymidine uptake and viable cellular recovery. In contrast, rBCGF-12 kDa or serum mediated proliferation of three EBV+ B cell lines was refractory to the growth inhibitory effects of TGF-beta 1. In an attempt to understand the mechanism(s) for this differential growth control in EBV+ and EBV- B cells, we studied the expression of TGF-beta 1, c-myc, and TGF-beta 1 receptors. No correlation was observed between the expression of TGF-beta 1 or c-myc gene and growth inhibition by TGF-beta 1 in the cell lines studied. Our results indicate that sensitivity or resistance to TGF-beta 1 correlated with the presence or absence (loss) of high affinity receptors for TGF-beta 1. EBV- B cell lines expressed levels of high affinity receptors similar to those found on activated normal B or T cells. In contrast, EBV+ B cell lines showed no detectable high affinity receptors. Chemical cross-linking studies with a bifunctional reagent, dissuccinimidyl suberate revealed a normal expression of type I (65-70 kDa), type II (85-90 kDa), and type III (280-300 kDa) TGF-beta 1 high affinity receptors on EBV- B cell lines. In contrast, EBV+ B cell lines did not express type I and type II receptors, whereas type III receptors were expressed but could not be inhibited by unlabeled TGF-beta 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Rare choroidal tumour simulating a malignant melanoma. A 15-year-old boy had been treated for a central chorioretinitis of his right eye. The other eye had always been normal. Two years later he presented a relapse with deterioration of central visual acuity. All clinical tests, including fluorescein angiography, suggested an inflammatory process this time again. Thereafter, the patient did not show up for 6 years. Then he came to hospital because of strong pains in his right eye. Now, a blind and inflamed eye was found with a huge tumour from the optic nerve extending to the temporal periphery. All clinical investigations, amongst others ultrasonography, computerized tomography and magnetic resonance tomography, suggested a choroidal melanoma with extrabulbar extension. An enucleation with partial exenteration was performed. A demonstration and discussion of the clinical findings and the rare and complicated histological diagnosis of a very unusual ectopic meningioma-like lesion are given. 
Cost-effective treatment of constipation in the elderly: a randomized double-blind comparison of sorbitol and lactulose. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of sorbitol as an inexpensive alternative to lactulose for treating constipation in the elderly. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty men aged 65 to 86 with chronic constipation were studied in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over trial in which lactulose and 70% sorbitol (0 to 60 mL daily) were each given for 4 weeks preceded by a 2-week washout period. RESULTS: The average number of bowel movements per week was 6.71 with sorbitol and 7.02 with lactulose (95% confidence interval of the difference: -0.43 to 1.06), and the average number of days per week with bowel movements was 5.23 with sorbitol and 5.31 with lactulose (95% confidence interval of the difference: -0.32 to 0.48). Eleven patients stated a preference for sorbitol, 12 for lactulose, and seven had no preference. On a visual analogue scale measuring severity of constipation (0 to 100 mm), the average score for sorbitol was 35.6 mm versus 37.1 mm for lactulose (95% confidence interval of the difference: -6.4 to 9.3). The sorbitol and lactulose treatment periods were also similar in percent of bowel movements recorded as "normal," frequency and severity of symptoms such as bloating, cramping, and excessive flatulence, and overall health status as assessed by a previously validated five-category questionnaire. There were no significant differences between sorbitol and lactulose in any outcome measured except nausea, which was increased with lactulose (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSION: These results support the hypothesis that sorbitol and lactulose have no clinically significant differences in laxative effect. Sorbitol can be recommended as a cost-effective alternative to lactulose for the treatment of constipation in the elderly. 
The role of two-dimensional echocardiography in the diagnosis of ineffective endocarditis. Two-dimensional echocardiography has had a significant impact on and is considered the technique of choice for the diagnosis and management of infective endocarditis. Over a thirty-six month period, 106 patients were evaluated by echocardiography for the possibility of endocarditis. The diagnosis of endocarditis was determined by strict clinical and laboratory criteria. All clinical histories, blood cultures, echocardiograms, and autopsy results were reviewed. Five echocardiograms were technically inadequate, resulting in a study population of 101 patients. The age of the patients ranged from forty-five days to eighty-eight years (mean fifty-seven years). The clinical manifestations of endocarditis included fever (83%), chills (60%), congestive heart failure (25%), and splenomegaly (18%). Twelve patients had preexisting valvular or congenital heart disease. Gram-positive cocci were the most common microorganisms. Complications included mitral regurgitation, subarachnoid hemorrhage, renal infarction, stroke, and a pulmonary embolus. The patients were divided into two groups: Group I consisted of 36 patients with definite vegetations by echocardiography, and Group II had 65 patients with no vegetations. In Group I, acute infective endocarditis was present in 35 patients, whereas only 4 patients had endocarditis in Group II. The sensitivity of two-dimensional echocardiography for detecting endocarditis was 90%. The specificity was 98%. The predictive accuracy for a positive test was 97%, and the predictive accuracy for a negative test was 94%. Thus, two-dimensional echocardiography appears to have a high sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value in the evaluation of patients with suspected endocarditis. 
Unilateral erythromelanosis follicularis faciei et colli in a young girl. Erythromelanosis follicularis faciei et colli is uncommon. Fewer than 20 cases have been reported. Except for one case in a woman and one case of unilateral distribution, all other reported cases have been bilateral in young male patients. We report the first case of unilateral distribution in a white girl. 
Root of the superior mesenteric artery in pancreatitis and pancreatic carcinoma: evaluation with CT To determine if changes involving the root of the superior mesenteric artery are specific for neoplasm, the authors retrospectively reviewed 173 computed tomographic (CT) examinations of patients with proved pancreatitis (103 examinations) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (70 examinations). Streaky infiltration of the fat surrounding the root was seen in 27 of 56 examinations of acute pancreatitis, in four of 24 examinations of chronic pancreatitis, in 12 of 23 examinations of pancreatitis complicated by abscess, and in 25 of 70 examinations of pancreatic carcinoma. Periarterial lymph nodes were visible in 14 with acute pancreatitis, in three with chronic pancreatitis, in six with pancreatic abscess, and in 11 with pancreatic carcinoma. A focal mass extended to within 1 cm of the root in 10 with acute pancreatitis, in two with chronic pancreatitis, in four with pancreatic abscess, and in 24 with pancreatic carcinoma; the mass obliterated the periarterial fat in seven with acute pancreatitis, in one with pancreatic abscess, and in 18 with pancreatic carcinoma. Circumferential encasement occurred in one with chronic pancreatitis, in four with pancreatic abscess, in 14 with pancreatic carcinoma, and in none with acute pancreatitis; nearly all cases of encasement revealed loss of periarterial fat. Thus, these indicators are not specific for neoplasm. 
Hyperglycemia-induced cholestasis in the isolated perfused rat liver. In a previous report we showed that cholestasis in diabetic rats is due in part to hyperglycemia. To gain information about the mechanism responsible for this phenomenon, bile flow was studied in isolated perfused rat livers. The perfusion media were modified erythrocyte-free Krebs-Henseleit solutions. Under these experimental conditions, no cholestasis was observed in isolated rat livers obtained from rats treated with streptozotocin (6 mg/100 gm body wt) 6 days before the experiments. We then proceeded to use normal animals. The composition of the perfusion media was modified to maintain the osmolality even after increasing D-glucose concentrations from 0 to 35 mmol/L. Bile flow was not affected with doses up to 15 mmol/L D-glucose. Beyond a threshold value for plasma D-glucose concentrations between 15 and 20 mmol/L, cholestasis was observed. Using D-glucose analogs such as L-glucose and 3-O-methyl-D-glucose, bile flow was also reduced (by 0.54 and 0.53 microliters/min/gm liver, respectively). Isosmotic sucrose-containing perfusion media were also observed to impair bile flow (by 0.66 microliters/min/gm liver). However, i-erythritol and D-mannitol failed to inhibit bile formation. The study of bile/plasma concentration ratios determined using tracer amounts of radioactive sugars indicated that this value was much lower for cholestatic sucrose (0.11) and L-glucose (0.31) than for noncholestatic i-erythritol (0.99) and D-mannitol (0.98). Cholestasis was partly reversed after induction by 35 mmol/L D-glucose if perfusion media were replaced by sugar-free ones, but also by media containing 25 mmol/L D-glucose. Insulin given during the perfusion with sugar-free media was observed to have no effect on bile flow. 
Needle biopsy associated tumor tracking of adenocarcinoma of the prostate. We reviewed 350 previously biopsied completely submitted clinical stage B radical prostatectomy specimens resected between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1988 in an attempt to identify the incidence of needle biopsy associated tumor tracking into periprostatic soft tissue. We identified 7 cases (2.0%) of needle biopsy associated tumor tracking, 3 in which the only tumor penetration in the gland was limited to the needle track. The maximal soft tissue extension from the biopsy site ranged from 0.1 to 1.2 cm. and approached the nearest soft tissue margin to within 0.5 mm. in 4 cases. In contrast to prior reports showing clinically evident tracking only with transperineal biopsies from high grade tumors, 6 of our 7 cases were of intermediate grade (in the glandular and tracking components) and 6 had transrectal biopsies. Needle biopsy associated tumor tracking occurred with core (14 gauge) and biopsy gun needles (18 gauge). An additional 13 cases (3.7%) showed some features of needle biopsy associated tumor tracking but they were equivocal. These findings have significant implications in light of recent proposals advocating serial mapping of prostate cancer using the biopsy gun with potential conservative observation of smaller tumors. 
Bilateral eyelid myxomas in Carney's complex. A 21-year-old man with a history of an excised soft tissue mass of the groin and spotty cutaneous pigmentation underwent excision of nodules of the right lower and left upper eyelids. The patient subsequently had a cutaneous mass of the left ear removed. All excised lesions were classified as myxomas. A diagnosis of multiple myxoma, spotty pigmentation, and endocrine overactivity (Carney's) complex was made. 
Treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting with ondansetron: a randomized, double-blind comparison with placebo. Postoperative nausea and vomiting are common after recovery from general anesthesia. The antiemetic effect and safety of ondansetron, a selective serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist, was determined in 36 patients suffering from nausea or vomiting during recovery from intravenous anesthesia by giving either a single intravenous dose of ondansetron (8 mg, n = 18) or placebo (n = 18) over 2-5 min in a randomized, double-blind manner. A "rescue" antiemetic was provided in case of continued vomiting or at the patient's request. Antiemetic efficacy was defined as no request for rescue antiemetic and/or no vomiting episode during the next 4 h. There was no significant difference in the demographic data between the groups. Administration of ondansetron or placebo had no significant effect on vital signs. Ondansetron was an effective antiemetic in 78% (14/18) and placebo was effective in 28% (5/18) of the patients. Laboratory studies 24 h later showed no signs of hematologic, hepatic, or renal alterations. Ondansetron at a dose of 8 mg administered intravenously over 2-5 min appears to be a safe and effective antiemetic for the treatment of nausea and/or vomiting after intravenous anesthesia. 
Copper deficiency in a genetically hypertensive cardiomyopathic rat: electrocardiogram, functional and ultrastructural aspects. The effect of copper deficiency on cardiac function and structure was studied in a strain of rats (SHHS/Mcc-cp) known to develop cardiac failure as adults. Restriction of dietary copper (less than or equal to 1 mg/kg vs. 6 mg/kg in adequate diets) at weaning in both sexes for a 6-wk period produced cardiac hypertrophy. Male rats developed more severe copper-deficiency symptoms than their female counterparts. In both sexes of copper-deficient rats, there was an increase in cardiac length, width, free ventricular wall thickness and septum thickness. Electrocardiographic tracings revealed greater QRS height among male copper-deficient rats. Heart rate also was substantially reduced in this group. The increased volume of myocardium occupied by mitochondria in the copper-deficient male rats might result in increased electrical resistance that would increase the QRS height; hypertrophy or anemia also could be contributory. Some male copper-deficient rats had prolongation of the QRS in a bundle branch block pattern. Maximal rates of rise and fall for left ventricular pressure were reduced in male copper-deficient rats. The gross histology indicated that this type of heart failure was more concentric than eccentric. The copper-deficient male rat may serve as a useful model for studying the concentric cardiac hypertrophy that occurs in humans. 
Giant, human immunodeficiency virus-related ulcers in the esophagus. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection of the esophagus has recently been implicated as a cause of giant esophageal ulcers in HIV-positive patients with odynophagia. The authors examined four patients in whom esophagograms (one single-contrast and three double-contrast studies) revealed giant, HIV-related ulcers indistinguishable from those of cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophagitis. All four patients had severe odynophagia, one had an associated maculopapular rash, and two became HIV-positive at approximately the time of clinical presentation. In all patients, biopsy samples, brushings, and cultures obtained with endoscopy were negative for CMV or herpes simplex. One patient had positive brushings for candidiasis, but this may have resulted from fungal superinfection of the ulcer. Two patients were treated with orally administered steroids, and all four had swift clinical improvement; symptoms disappeared during an average period of 8.3 days from presentation. HIV-related esophageal ulcers should be distinguished from CMV ulcers, so that appropriate treatment can be initiated in these patients. 
Longer relapse-free period after sucralfate than after H2-blocker treatment of duodenal and gastric ulcers. In a prospective investigation of 2,045 patients with recurrent peptic ulcer disease, the relapse-free period after acute treatment with sucralfate was evaluated over 1 year. This remission period was compared retrospectively with that achieved by previous treatment with a histamine-H2-blocker in the same patients. Only patients who had a symptomatic relapse within 1 year after H2-blocker therapy were included. Patients with no relapses within 1 year after sucralfate were assumed to have a relapse on day 366, in order to compare the two periods. In 73% of the evaluable 2,045 patients, remission after sucralfate was longer than after H2-blocker, and 23% of these patients had no symptomatic relapse at all within 1 year after sucralfate. The average relapse-free period after sucralfate was 212 days, as compared with 132 days after H2-blockers (difference = 80 days; p less than 0.0001). Elderly and nonsmoking patients and those experiencing their first recurrence, or who had a duodenal ulcer, benefited especially from acute treatment with sucralfate. It can be concluded that peptic ulcer patients with a relapse after treatment with an H2-blocker are suitable candidates for sucralfate therapy. There is a high probability that the relapse-free period after sucralfate is longer than after H2-blocker treatment in both gastric and duodenal ulcer patients. 
Tensile properties of the human femur-anterior cruciate ligament-tibia complex. The effects of specimen age and orientation. The structural properties of 27 pairs of human cadaver knees were evaluated. Specimens were equally divided into three groups of nine pairs each based on age: younger (22 to 35 years), middle (40 to 50 years), and older (60 to 97 years). Anterior-posterior displacement tests with the intact knee at 30 degrees and 90 degrees of flexion revealed a significant effect of knee flexion angle, but not of specimen age. Tensile tests of the femur-ACL-tibia complex were performed at 30 degrees of knee flexion with the ACL aligned vertically along the direction of applied tensile load. One knee from each pair was oriented anatomically (anatomical orientation), and the contralateral knee was oriented with the tibia aligned vertically (tibial orientation). Structural properties of the femur-ACL-tibia complex, as represented by the linear stiffness, ultimate load, and energy absorbed, were found to decrease significantly with specimen age and were also found to have higher values in specimens tested in the anatomical orientation. In the younger specimens, linear stiffness (242 +/- 28 N/mm) and ultimate load (2160 +/- 157 N) values found when the femur-ACL-tibia complex was tested in the anatomical orientation were higher than those reported previously in the literature. These values provide new baseline data for the design and selection of grafts for ACL replacement in an attempt to reproduce normal knee kinematics. 
Stage IIB osteogenic sarcoma. Two hundred seventy-one consecutive patients treated from 1976 through 1986 were reviewed to estimate long-term survival. Disease-free survival for the entire cohort was 77% at five years and 74% at ten years. Humeral lesions had the best probability of survival (84% at ten years), followed by tibial lesions (81%) and femoral lesions (67%). Histologic response to preoperative chemotherapy was the strongest predictor of outcome. Those with little response had a survival estimate of 54% at ten years as compared to 68% for partial responders and approximately 90% for complete responders. Local recurrence was seen in 6.6% and was associated with an adverse effect on survival. Only two of the 18 patients with local recurrence have been rendered long-term disease-free survivors. 
Liver diseases unique to pregnancy. Severe liver diseases occur in less than 0.1% of pregnancies. Accurate diagnosis and appropriate therapy are essential to the health and survival of both the mother and fetus. Because of their low incidence and the fact that most pregnant women are cared for primarily by their obstetricians, gastroenterologists only infrequently encounter these diseases. This review is intended to update the practicing gastroenterologist on the complex spectrum of liver diseases unique to pregnancy. 
A comparison of the analgesic and respiratory effects of epidural nalbuphine or morphine in postthoracotomy patients. This randomized, double-blind study compared the analgesic and respiratory effects of lumbar epidural morphine 5 mg, nalbuphine 10 mg, and nalbuphine 20 mg in repeated doses in patients after thoracotomy; the first dose was administered intraoperatively. Pre-and postoperative monitoring included continuous pulse oximetry, respiratory inductance plethysmography, and repeated arterial blood gas analysis. Postoperatively, visual analogue pain scores, somnolence scores, respiratory rate, and arterial blood gases were determined for 16 h. Preoperatively, episodes of apnea were common during sleep but were not associated with low hemoglobin oxygen saturation or increased arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2). During sleep, some otherwise normal patients had increased PaCO2, and 2 of 15 patients had episodes of hemoglobin oxygen saturation of less than 90%. Postoperatively, 1 and 2 h after arrival in the recovery room, patients who received morphine had lower pain scores than did those who received nalbuphine 10 or 20 mg (P less than 0.05). All 6 patients who received morphine had satisfactory analgesia. Two of 4 patients who received nalbuphine 10 mg and all 5 who received nalbuphine 20 mg were withdrawn from the study because of inadequate analgesia (morphine vs. nalbuphine 10 mg, not significant; morphine vs. nalbuphine 20 mg, P less than 0.01). Two patients who received morphine had persistently increased PaCO2 postoperatively. Two patients who received morphine had episodes of apnea and slow respiratory rate, which were most frequent 6 h after arrival in the recovery room. We conclude that lumbar epidural nalbuphine does not provide adequate analgesia after thoracotomy. 
Dipeptidyl aminopeptidase IV staining of cytologic preparations to distinguish benign from malignant thyroid diseases. Staining for dipeptidyl aminopeptidase IV (DAP IV [EC: 3.4.14.5]) activity was applied to aspiration biopsy specimens or imprint preparations of surgical biopsy specimens from thyroid tumors. Material was obtained from 55 patients with histologically proven thyroid diseases: 9 with papillary carcinoma, 5 with follicular carcinoma, 11 with follicular adenoma, 13 with adenomatous goiter, 8 with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and 9 with other benign conditions. Most tumor cells, follicular lumina in cell clusters, and intranuclear inclusions were strongly positive for DAP IV in all examples of papillary or follicular carcinoma. In contrast, only a few epithelial cells were labeled for DAP IV in follicular adenoma and adenomatous goiter. Some Hurthle cells in Hashimoto's thyroiditis also were positive for DAP IV. When a DAP IV scoring system based on the percentage of positive cells and staining intensity was used, all benign tissues except one (from a follicular adenoma) were found to have extremely low scores. These results indicate that staining for DAP IV activity is a simple but useful tool to aid in distinguishing benign from malignant thyroid neoplasms. 
The performance of two tympanic thermometers in a pediatric emergency department. In a prospective, unblinded, controlled study, 303 children underwent comparison of rectal (RT) and right-sided tympanic membrane (TMT) temperatures. Digital electronic thermometers were used for RT, while two different infrared detection devices assessed TMT. The performance of TMT devices were compared using correlation with RT, fever detection, and ease of use. Correlation between RT and the two devices was good, r = 0.70 and r = 0.69, with little influence of patient age on performance. Using receiver operating characteristics curves to assess fever screening. Thermoscan performed somewhat better than First Temp. Staff rated the Thermoscan as significantly easier to use. 
Gene mapping in the idiopathic generalized epilepsies: juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, childhood absence epilepsy, epilepsy with grand mal seizures, and early childhood myoclonic epilepsy. Idiopathic generalized epilepsies, i.e., juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), childhood absence epilepsy, and epilepsy with grand mal [generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS)], are the most common genetic epilepsies. Linkage studies using Bf, HLA serologic, and DNA markers by three independent investigators, one from Los Angeles and two from Berlin, have localized the JME locus to the short arm of chromosome 6 (6p). Because members of the same JME family have the same JME phenotype of childhood absence epilepsy, epilepsy with grand mal (GTCS) seizures, or early childhood myoclonic epilepsy (ECME), our observations give evidence for a single-locus etiology in 6p for JME and for at least some of the childhood absence seizures, epilepsy with grand mal (GTCS) seizures, and ECME. Studies should now address whether locus heterogeneity exists within childhood absence epilepsy, epilepsy with grand mal (GTCS) seizures, or ECME. Markers linked to JME (Bf, HLA serologic, and DNA markers in the DQ region) can be used to resolve etiologic heterogeneity. Using such markers, both linked and unlinked forms of phenotypes that are clinically indistinguishable may be detected and provide evidence for etiologic heterogeneity. Studies should also concentrate on narrowing the JME locus to 2 to 3 cm by screening families with recombinant events using RFLPs, candidate genes, and new expressed sequences on chromosome 6. 
An open label study of oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) for the treatment of breakthrough cancer pain. Ten patients with advanced cancer and breakthrough pain between the ages of 39 and 78 received oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (10-15 micrograms/kg) 4 or 5 times each over 2 days (42 total administrations) in an open study. Baseline vital sign and rating scale results did not vary over administrations, except for heart rate which showed an 8 beats/min decrease over 4 administrations. Heart rate and oxygen saturation did not vary significantly over 120 min of evaluation, and minimal changes in blood pressure and respiration rate were found. Significant reduction in pain scores as measured by a pain descriptive scale, the McGill-Melzack scale, and a numeric (VAS) scale were seen at all evaluations from 5 to 120 min. Average time to onset of pain relief was 9.5 min after administration. Wellbeing was significantly increased at all evaluations. Activity level as recorded by the investigator was significantly reduced from 10 to 30 min after administration, however, activity level as reported by the patient was significantly increased at 5 min and from 60 to 120 min after OTFC administration. There were no significant adverse effects. 
Protection against infarction afforded by preconditioning is mediated by A1 adenosine receptors in rabbit heart. BACKGROUND. Preconditioning (5 minutes of ischemia followed by 10 minutes of recovery) renders the heart very resistant to infarction from subsequent ischemia. This study tests whether adenosine receptors might mediate preconditioning protection. METHODS AND RESULTS. We examined the effect on infarct size of pretreatment with either of two adenosine receptor antagonists in both control and preconditioned in situ rabbit hearts. Hearts underwent 30 minutes of regional ischemia plus 3 hours of reperfusion, and infarct size was measured with tetrazolium. Infarct size averaged 39% of the zone at risk in controls but only 8% in preconditioned hearts. Preconditioned and nonpreconditioned hearts receiving either blocker had infarcts not different in size from the controls. A 5-minute intracoronary infusion of adenosine was as effective as 5 minutes of ischemia in protecting parabiotically perfused isolated hearts against infarction from a 45-minute ischemic insult. Similarly, intracoronary infusion of N6-1-(phenyl-2R-isopropyl)adenosine, an A1-selective adenosine receptor agonist, at a dose that delayed conduction but did not dilate the coronary vessels, also limited infarct size. The protection disappeared when we reduced the coronary concentration of drug by intravenous infusion of adenosine, indicating that cardiac rather than peripheral receptors were involved in the protection. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that adenosine released during the preconditioning occlusion stimulates cardiac A1 receptors, which leaves the heart protected against infarction even after the adenosine has been withdrawn. 
A CD18 monoclonal antibody increases the incidence and severity of subcutaneous abscess formation after high-dose Staphylococcus aureus injection in rabbits. Monoclonal antibody (MAb) 60.3 blocks CD18-dependent polymorphonuclear neutrophil adherence to endothelium and has been shown to be of benefit in preventing tissue injury in a variety of inflammatory conditions. However, concern exists that interference with normal polymorphonuclear neutrophil host-defense functions may increase susceptibility to bacterial infection. We compared the development of subcutaneous Staphylococcus aureus abscesses in rabbits pretreated with MAb 60.3 to those pretreated with saline placebo. Bacterial inoculation with 10(6) or 10(7) colony-forming units (CFU) did not result in abscess formation in either control or antibody-treated groups. However, inoculation with 10(8) CFU resulted in more frequent and larger abscesses in antibody-treated rabbits than in controls. Abscess incidence was similar for inoculation with 10(9) CFU, although antibody-treated rabbits developed larger abscesses than did controls. The difference in abscess development is due to delayed leukocyte migration into inoculated tissue. The results of these experiments suggest that subjects treated with MAb 60.3 and exposed to massive S. aureus inocula may be at serious risk of infection. However, despite inhibited leukocyte adhesion, inocula of up to 10(7) CFU were well tolerated in this model. Whether these findings are clinically important remains to be determined, although exposure to bacterial concentrations of 10(8) CFU or greater occurs only rarely in clinical practice. 
The frequency and significance of ECG changes after transurethral prostate resection. Although many clinicians routinely recommend a base-line preoperative electrocardiogram (ECG) and obtain frequent postoperative ECGs to screen for myocardial infarction or ischemia, the diagnostic utility of screening perioperative ECGs is unknown. The present analysis evaluates the sensitivity and specificity of the perioperative ECG and examines its value as a predictor of early postoperative cardiac events and outcomes during the postoperative year. ECGs obtained preoperatively and on the first 3 postoperative days in 206 men undergoing transurethral prostate resection were analyzed using the Minnesota Code. The occurrence of cardiac events during the operative stay was assessed by measurement of the cardiospecific MB creatine kinase isoenzyme on the first 3 postoperative days and review of the entire clinical course. Twenty-one percent of patients developed postoperative ECG changes, mostly involving the T wave; none had cardiac symptoms or sustained creatine kinase MB elevation. Changes were not significantly more common in men known to have coronary disease. The single patient who had a perioperative myocardial infarction confirmed by enzymes had no codable ECG changes. The specificity of any ECG change for perioperative infarction was 78%; of ST segment changes only, 95%. Only one of the patients (2%) who had postoperative ECG changes had a cardiac event in the year after surgery. Routine perioperative ECGs is of little diagnostic/predictive utility in situations in which the incidence of perioperative myocardial infarction is low. 
MR imaging of synovial sarcoma. The MR imaging findings in 12 cases of synovial sarcoma are illustrated. The MR appearance most indicative of the tumor is an inhomogeneous septated mass with infiltrative margins located close to a joint, a tendon, or bursae, especially if soft-tissue calcification can be seen on CT scans or plain radiographs. 
Hormone replacement therapy and coronary heart disease. Proper use of postmenopausal hormone replacement has been the subject of debate for decades. Prevailing medical opinion has swung between enthusiastic endorsement and extreme caution. The wave of optimism over estrogen's beneficial effects on menopausal symptoms and skeletal health was temporarily set back by the evidence that linked estrogen to endometrial cancer. Once studies showed that progestogen cotherapy could protect against this adverse effect, physicians were again encouraged to prescribe hormone replacement. Since 1980, increasing epidemiologic and experimental evidence has suggested a hitherto unappreciated and immense CHD health benefit from use of postmenopausal estrogen therapy. Although addition of progestogen may offset the cardiovascular benefits of estrogen slightly, its use is reasonable and practical. No woman need be subjected to unopposed estrogen's carcinogenic effects on her endometrium. Based on available evidence, hormone replacement therapy, appropriately administered, is both safe and beneficial. Unfortunately, there is no single way to prescribe it. The treating physician must make a series of best judgments. Practically speaking, this entails, in each case, finding the form of therapy that is acceptable to the patient and that provides the greatest health benefits with the least likelihood of adverse affects. Our prescribing habits have evolved in the last 15 to 20 years. We have better discrimination of the woman most likely to benefit; improved therapy through use of newer formulations, dosages, routes, and schedules; and more appropriate implementation of monitoring procedures. Although questions remain, we should not let our imperfect knowledge dissuade us from more widespread prescribing of hormone replacement therapy. 
Mechanism of the increased ventilatory response to exercise in patients with chronic heart failure. Minute ventilation, respiratory rate, and metabolic gas exchange were measured continuously during maximal symptom limited treadmill exercise in 30 patients with stable chronic heart failure. The ventilatory response to exercise was assessed by calculation of the slope of the relation between minute ventilation and rate of carbon dioxide production. There was a close correlation between the severity of heart failure, determined as the maximal rate of oxygen consumption, and the ventilatory response to exercise. Reanalysis of the data after correction for ventilation of anatomical dead space did not significantly weaken the correlation but reduced the slope of the relation by approximately one third. These results show that the increased ventilatory response to exercise in patients with chronic heart failure is largely caused by mechanisms other than increased ventilation of anatomical dead space. This finding supports the concept that a significant pulmonary ventilation/perfusion mismatch develops in patients with chronic heart failure and suggests that the magnitude of this abnormality is directly related to the severity of chronic heart failure. 
Endoscopic balloon dilatation as a therapeutic option in the management of intestinal strictures resulting from Crohn's disease. Endoscopic balloon dilatation was undertaken in seven patients who presented with obstructive symptoms resulting from Crohn's disease. Five patients had strictures from recurrent disease at the site of an ileotransverse anastomosis, one had duodenal stenosis and one a colonic stricture. The procedures were performed under intravenous sedation on one to four occasions (median 2) and were uncomplicated. Sustained improvement over an 18-24-month follow-up period was achieved in five patients, but dilatation was unsuccessful in two cases. Endoscopic balloon dilatation is a safe and effective option in selected patients with intestinal strictures resulting from Crohn's disease and may overcome the need for surgery. 
Adrenergic hypersensitivity after beta-blocker withdrawal in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Withdrawal of beta-blocker therapy has been associated with the development of adrenergic hypersensitivity and adverse clinical effects in patients with coronary artery disease and hypertension. The aim of this study was to establish the occurrence and clinical significance of adrenergic hypersensitivity after abrupt withdrawal of long-term beta blockade in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Beta-adrenergic sensitivity was measured using the isoprenaline chronotropic dose25. Symptom assessment chronotropic dose25 calculation, bicycle exercise, echocardiography and Holter monitoring were performed while the patient received beta-blocker therapy and repeated on days 2, 4, 6, 8 (acute withdrawal period) and on day 21 after abrupt withdrawal. The study was terminated after 7 patients had been studied because all patients experienced a marked deterioration in symptoms and several clinical events had occurred. The chronotropic dose25 (mean +/- standard deviation) demonstrated beta 1-adrenergic hypersensitivity with a minimal value of 1.6 +/- 0.8 micrograms during the acute withdrawal period compared with 3.8 +/- 1.7 micrograms on day 21 (p = 0.003). Heart rates during rest and exercise showed an overshoot increase during the acute withdrawal period. The maximal 24-hour ventricular ectopic count was higher during the acute withdrawal period than during day 21 (p = 0.04). Of 3 patients with inducible outflow tract gradients, 2 developed resting gradients greater than 30 mm Hg during the acute withdrawal period. There was an increase in peak late filling velocity of mitral inflow after beta-blocker withdrawal. In conclusion, transient beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity occurs after beta-blocker withdrawal in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and is associated with significant physiologic changes and adverse clinical consequences. 
Pediatric fine-needle aspiration biopsy. A total of 135 fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsies from varying sites were performed in 123 children (mean, 10.5 years; range, one day to 18 years) over a five-year period. One hundred thirty (96.3%) biopsy specimens were satisfactory for evaluation. Seventy-nine cases were nonneoplastic (60.8%); among these cases, a specific diagnosis of infectious disease was made in 17 (13.1%). A diagnosis of neoplastic disease was made in 50 (38.5%) cases, of which 14 (10.8%) were benign, 28 (21.5%) were malignant, and 8 (6.2%) were neoplasms of uncertain biologic potential. The sensitivity of pediatric FNA biopsies was 90.6%, specificity 100%, positive predictive value 100%, negative predictive value 94.7%, and efficiency of the test 96.5%. There were no false-positive diagnoses and there were four false-negative diagnoses, three of which involved aspirates of the central nervous system (CNS). Ancillary studies, including immunocytochemistry (20 cases), electron microscopic examination (18 cases), microbiologic culture (8 cases), cytogenetic studies (7 cases), and flow cytometry (3 cases), were performed on the aspirated material, enabling a more specific diagnosis or supplying additional information in many cases. Definitive diagnosis by FNA biopsy enabled radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy to be administered for unresectable malignant neoplasms, provided material for culture of infectious lesions, identified benign lesions not needing surgery, and aided the surgeon in planning the extent of surgery in resectable malignant neoplasms. These results support the greater use of FNA biopsy in the pediatric population. 
Effects of interferon on intrahepatic human leukocyte antigens and lymphocyte subsets in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C. We investigated the effects of interferon therapy on hepatocyte human leukocyte antigen class I and class II antigen expression and intrahepatic lymphocyte subsets in patients with chronic viral hepatitis B (n = 11) and C (n = 10). Interferon-alpha was administered intramuscularly in doses ranging from 3 to 18 million international units daily for 4 wk. Liver biopsy specimens were obtained just before and immediately after treatment, and the specimens were stained by the indirect immunoperoxidase method for evaluation of human leukocyte antigen expression and lymphocyte subsets. Before therapy, no significant difference was noted between hepatitis B and C in human leukocyte antigen class I antigen expression on hepatocytes or in the lymphocyte subsets in the intralobular and portal areas. After interferon-alpha treatment, hepatocyte expression of human leukocyte antigen class I antigens and serum beta 2-microglobulin levels were virtually unchanged in chronic viral hepatitis C patients, but both were increased in chronic viral hepatitis B patients. Human leukocyte antigen class II antigens were not expressed during treatment. The mean number of intralobular CD3+ and CD8+ cells and the mean serum ALT level decreased significantly in chronic viral hepatitis C patients (p less than 0.05) but not in chronic viral hepatitis B patients. The mean number of intralobular CD4+ cells was unaffected by interferon therapy in both groups. In all 21 patients, the changes in CD8+ cell numbers paralleled the changes in serum ALT levels. Our findings suggest that T-cell cytotoxicity may play an important role in hepatocyte damage in both chronic viral hepatitis C and chronic viral hepatitis B and that the response to interferon-alpha differs in these two types of hepatitis. 
Anti-MY9-blocked-ricin: an immunotoxin for selective targeting of acute myeloid leukemia cells. The use of immunotoxins (IT) to selectively destroy acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells in vivo or in vitro is complicated by both the antigenic similarity of AML cells to normal progenitor cells and the difficulty of producing a sufficiently toxic conjugate. The monoclonal antibody (MoAb) anti-MY9 is potentially ideal for selective recognition of AML cells because it reacts with an antigen (CD33) found on clonogenic AML cells from greater than 80% of cases and does not react with normal pluripotent stem cells. In this study, we describe an immunotoxin that is selectively active against CD33+ AML cells: Anti-MY9-blocked-Ricin (Anti-MY9-bR), comprised of anti-MY9 conjugated to a modified whole ricin that has its nonspecific binding eliminated by chemical blockage of the galactose binding domains of the B-chain. A limiting dilution assay was used to measure elimination of HL-60 leukemic cells from a 20-fold excess of normal bone marrow cells. Depletion of CD33+ HL-60 cells was found to be dependent on the concentration of Anti-MY9-bR and on the duration of incubation with IT at 37 degrees C. More than 4 logs of these leukemic cells were specifically depleted following short exposure to high concentrations (10(-8) mol/L) of Anti-MY9-bR. Incubation with much lower concentrations of Anti-MY9-bR (10(-10) mol/L), as compatible with in vivo administration, resulted in 2 logs of depletion of HL-60 cells, but 48 to 72 hours of continuous exposure were required. Anti-MY9-bR was also shown to be toxic to primary AML cells, with depletion of greater than 2 logs of clonogenic cells following incubation with Anti-MY9-bR 10(-8) mol/L at 37 degrees C for 5 hours. Activity of Anti-MY9-bR could be blocked by unconjugated Anti-MY9 but not by galactose. As expected, Anti-MY9-bR was toxic to normal colony-forming unit granulocyte-monocyte (CFU-GM), which expresses CD33, in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, and also to burst-forming unit-erythroid and CFU-granulocyte, erythroid, monocyte, megakaryocyte, although to a lesser extent. When compared with anti-MY9 and complement (C'), Anti-MY9-bR could be used in conditions that provided more effective depletion of AML cells with substantially less depletion of normal CFU-GM. Therefore, Anti-MY9-bR may have clinical utility for in vitro purging of AML cells from autologous marrow when used at high IT concentrations for short incubation periods. Much lower concentrations of Anti-MY9-bR that can be maintained for longer periods may be useful for elimination of AML cells in vivo. 
Nerve growth and expression of receptors for nerve growth factor in tumors of melanocyte origin. Nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates growth and differentiation of sensory and sympathetic neurons. It is not known what role NGF plays in melanoma development, but nevus and malignant melanoma cells express NGF-receptor (NGF-R). We counted nerve fibers within melanocytic nevi, primary cutaneous melanomas, and cutaneous melanoma metastases using a monoclonal antibody (MoAb) as marker against a 200-kD glycoprotein that is expressed on human nerves. The expression of NGF-R was studied in serial cryostat sections using a MoAb against the NGF-R. Compared to normal skin, increased numbers of nerve fibers were found in 72 melanocytic nevi. In congenital nevi their number significantly increased with age. In 47 primary cutaneous melanomas the number of nerve fibers decreased in proportion to tumor thickness. In 33 cutaneous melanoma metastases no accumulation of nerve fibers was found. NGF-R was not expressed in normal skin melanocytes and in the majority of nevus cells in melanocytic nevi. Considerable numbers of NGF-R-positive nervus cells were found only in some congenital nevi and few acquired nevi with dysplastic features. By contrast, in primary and metastatic melanomas higher expression of NGF-R was observed. The increased number of nerve fibers in melanocytic nevi suggests that neurite-promoting factors are produced in situ. Production of such factors appears to be lost in malignant melanoma cells. The finding of an inverse correlation between an abundance of nerve fibers in NGF-R-poor nevi and a high expression of NGF-R in melanomas that show no evidence of nerve growth suggest a role of NGF and its receptor in malignant melanocytic tumors. 
Linear nevus sebaceous syndrome: megalencephaly and heterotopic gray matter. A 3-month-old white male with linear nevus sebaceous syndrome (LNSS), facial deformities, brain malformations, and cortical blindness is presented. Facial deformities included left ear hypertrophy and a left-sided hamartomatous neck mass. Magnetic resonance imaging suggested that a central nervous system (CNS) abnormality, involving gray and white matter, should be linked with LNSS. Magnetic resonance imaging was more useful than computed tomography in demonstrating the full spectrum of CNS anomalies, including unilateral lissencephaly, a paucity of white matter, excessive and heterotopic gray matter, apparent left schizencephaly, and unilateral left colpocephaly (dilation of atrium and posterior horn of lateral ventricle). Postmortem examination revealed left hemisphere megalencephaly with a dilated posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. The impressive gray matter heterotopias likely were the source of the patient's seizures and perhaps the ultimate cause of death. Megalencephaly and other deviations of neuronal migration should be considered as a dramatic component of LNSS. 
The neurology of aging: normal versus pathologic change. Mild changes in neurologic function occur with aging but generally do not substantially interfere with everyday activities unless disease intervenes. Not infrequently, older adults experience minor impairment in memory, speed of cognitive processing, sleep, vision and hearing, vibratory sense in the lower extremities, and gait and posture. In general, these changes correspond with age-associated neuroanatomic changes (eg, diminished brain weight), but there is wide variability in the extent to which these changes occur. Often, "normal" neurologic changes are difficult to distinguish from impairment associated with disease. 
In vivo and ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of early disc degeneration with histopathologic correlation. The in vivo and ex vivo microanatomic appearance of early disc degeneration were identified by magnetic resonance imaging and correlated with their respective histopathologic findings. Five cadaver spines (18 discs) and 25 patient studies (122 discs) all imaged at 1.5 Tesla were studied. Two signs of early degenerative disc disease were found: infolding and the central dot. Infolding of the central fibers of the outer annulus coalesced into a central dot of low signal intensity that was seen on both the ex vivo and in vivo images. Infolding was seen 29 of 122 times, and the central dot was observed 15 to 122 times on the in vivo images. A later form of degenerative disc disease was identified as a separation of the nucleus pulposus from the hyaline cartilage end-plate. This separation was seen as a linear area of either low or high signal intensity on the ex vivo images but only as a band of high signal intensity on the in vivo spin-echo 2,500-msec/80-msec images. Only 7 of 122 in vivo discs showed this separation. Internal herniation of nucleus pulposus into the outer annulus was seen only on the ex vivo images. Early degenerative disc disease may exist before there is loss of disc height or signal intensity on the long time-to-repetition (TR)/time-to-echo (TE) magnetic resonance images. 
Neoplastic disease of the spine. In summary, MR imaging has become the single most effective modality for the evaluation of spinal neoplasms by virtue of its ability to image the spinal cord directly and noninvasively. In this fashion, one can localize mass lesions relative to the spinal cord; in conjunction with the patient's clinical history, it is thus possible to provide a brief yet accurate differential diagnosis. Intravenous paramagnetic contrast enhancement also may prove extremely useful in further delineating such lesions. In addition, it has demonstrated a high sensitivity to primary and secondary tumors of the bony spine through its ability to detect subtle T1 signal changes in the vertebral marrow space. 
Identification of p53 gene mutations in bladder cancers and urine samples. Although bladder cancers are very common, little is known about their molecular pathogenesis. In this study, invasive bladder cancers were evaluated for the presence of gene mutations in the p53 suppressor gene. Of 18 tumors evaluated, 11 (61 percent) were found to have genetic alterations of p53. The alterations included ten point mutations resulting in single amino acid substitutions, and one 24-base pair deletion. In all but one case, the mutations were associated with chromosome 17p allelic deletions, leaving the cells with only mutant forms of the p53 gene products. Through the use of the polymerase chain reaction and oligomer-specific hybridization, p53 mutations were identified in 1 to 7 percent of the cells within the urine sediment of each of three patients tested. The p53 mutations are the first genetic alterations demonstrated to occur in a high proportion of primary invasive bladder cancers. Detection of such mutations ex vivo has clinical implications for monitoring individuals whose tumor cells are shed extracorporeally. 
Comorbidity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with conduct, depressive, anxiety, and other disorders. OBJECTIVE: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is a heterogeneous disorder of unknown etiology. Little is known about the comorbidity of this disorder with disorders other than conduct. Therefore, the authors made a systematic search of the psychiatric and psychological literature for empirical studies dealing with the comorbidity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with other disorders. DATA COLLECTION: The search terms included hyperactivity, hyperkinesis, attention deficit disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cross-referenced with antisocial disorder (aggression, conduct disorder, antisocial disorder), depression (depression, mania, depressive disorder, bipolar), anxiety (anxiety disorder, anxiety), learning problems (learning, learning disability, academic achievement), substance abuse (alcoholism, drug abuse), mental retardation, and Tourette's disorder. FINDINGS: The literature supports considerable comorbidity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with conduct disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, learning disabilities, and other disorders, such as mental retardation, Tourette's syndrome, and borderline personality disorder. CONCLUSIONS: Subgroups of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder might be delineated on the basis of the disorder's comorbidity with other disorders. These subgroups may have differing risk factors, clinical courses, and pharmacological responses. Thus, their proper identification may lead to refinements in preventive and treatment strategies. Investigation of these issues should help to clarify the etiology, course, and outcome of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
Evaluation of combination thrombolytic therapy and timing of cardiac catheterization in acute myocardial infarction. Results of thrombolysis and angioplasty in myocardial infarction--phase 5 randomized trial. TAMI Study Group Recent trials of myocardial reperfusion using single-agent thrombolytic therapy and sequential cardiac catheterization have supported a conservative approach to the patient with acute myocardial infarction. To evaluate combination thrombolytic therapy and the role of a previously untested strategy for the aggressive use of cardiac catheterization, we performed a multicenter clinical trial with a 3 x 2 factorial design in which 575 patients were randomly allocated to one of three drug regimens--tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) (n = 191), urokinase (n = 190), or both (n = 194) - and one of two catheterization strategies--immediate catheterization with angioplasty for failed thrombolysis (n = 287) or deferred predischarge catheterization on days 5-10 (n = 288). Patients with contraindications to thrombolytic therapy, cardiogenic shock, or age of more than 75 years were excluded. Global left ventricular ejection fraction was well preserved and almost identical at predischarge catheterization (54%), regardless of the catheterization or thrombolytic strategy used (p = 0.98). Combination thrombolytic therapy was associated with a less complicated clinical course, most clearly documented by a lower rate of reocclusion (2%) compared with urokinase (7%) and t-PA (12%) (p = 0.04) and a lower rate of recurrent ischemia (25%) compared with urokinase (35%) and t-PA (31%). When a composite clinical end point (e.g., death, stroke, reinfarction, reocclusion, heart failure, or recurrent ischemia) was examined, combination thrombolytic therapy was associated with greater freedom from any adverse event (68%) compared with either single agent (urokinase, 55%; t-PA, 60%) (p = 0.04) and with a less complicated clinical course when the composite clinical end points were ranked according to clinical severity (p = 0.024). Early patency rates were greater with combination therapy, although predischarge patency rates after considering interventions to maintain patency were similar among drug regimens. No difference in bleeding complication rates was observed with any thrombolytic regimen. The aggressive catheterization strategy led to an overall early patency rate of 96% and a predischarge patency rate of 94% compared with a 90% predischarge patency in the conservative strategy (p = 0.065). The aggressive strategy improved regional wall motion in the infarct region (-2.16 SDs/chord) compared with deferred catheterization (-2.49 SDs/chord) (p = 0.004). More patients treated with the aggressive strategy were free from adverse outcomes (67% versus 55% in the conservative strategy, p = 0.004), and the clinical course was less complicated when the adverse outcomes were ranked according to severity (p = 0.016). No significant increase in use of blood products resulted from the aggressive strategy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Retained bile duct stones in a patient with Billroth II gastrectomy: extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and papillary dilatation via T tube. A postoperative T tube cholangiogram after cholecystectomy in a 62 year old patient showed two retained calculi of 14 mm diameter each. Endoscopic sphincterotomy was not possible because of previous Billroth II gastrectomy. The stones were disintegrated by electromagnetically generated extracorporeal shock waves. The T tube was replaced by a balloon catheter and the papilla of Vater was dilatated allowing passage of stone fragments. We conclude that retained bile duct stones can be removed without sphincterotomy or percutaneous extraction by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and papillary dilatation. This method should be considered especially in patients with Billroth II gastrectomy. 
Failure of ursodeoxycholic acid to prevent a cholestatic episode in a patient with benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis: a study of bile acid metabolism. Ursodeoxycholic acid was administered to a patient with benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis to prevent cholestatic episodes. A detailed study of bile acid metabolism in this patient was carried out in the anicteric and icteric phases before and after ursodeoxycholic acid (750 mg/day) administration. Urinary, biliary and serum bile acids were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and by high-performance liquid chromatography techniques. During the anicteric phase the daily urinary excretion and serum concentrations of bile acids were within normal ranges, indicating normal hepatic uptake and secretion of bile acids during the cholestasis-free period. Only slight qualitative differences from normal individuals were observed; the relative proportions of deoxycholic acid in the bile and serum were higher, and 12-oxo-lithocholic acid was the predominant urinary bile acid. During the icteric phase a marked increase in the urinary excretion of primary bile acids and C-1, C-2, C-4 and C-6 hydroxylated metabolites was found. Serum bile acid concentrations increased before the rise in bilirubin, suggesting an acute disturbance in bile acid transport at the onset of the cholestatic attack. After ursodeoxycholic acid administration in the anicteric phase, bile became enriched with the exogenous bile acid, but little qualitative change was found in the other metabolites present in the urine, serum or bile during the anicteric or icteric phases. Prolonged administration of ursodeoxycholic acid failed to prevent recurrence of a cholestatic episode, suggesting that in benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis, oral ursodeoxycholic acid may be of little benefit in the treatment or prevention of cholestasis despite marked enrichment of the bile acid pool with this hydrophilic bile acid. 
False aneurysm of the right internal mammary artery. False aneurysm of the internal mammary artery is an uncommon complication of median sternotomy. Clinical and radiological findings of 2 such cases are presented. At operative exploration neither was directly related to the presence of a sternal wire. 
Sudden asphyxial death due to a prolapsed esophageal fibrolipoma. Fibrolipomas of the esophagus are extremely uncommon benign tumors. Accurate diagnosis and resection are essential, due to their tendency to become impacted and obstruct the airway. The case is presented of a 56-year-old man who died suddenly of asphyxia because of upper airway obstruction by a prolapsed fibrolipoma of the esophagus. 
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with meningitis. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in the cerebrospinal fluid from patients with meningitis was measured by our modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for G-CSF. The minimal detection level was 20 pg/mL G-CSF. In patients with bacterial meningitis, the G-CSF levels in the cerebrospinal fluid were extremely elevated, showing a mean value of approximately 1,500 pg/mL. On the other hand, G-CSF levels in the cerebrospinal fluid from 67% patients with aseptic meningitis were moderately increased, showing a mean value of about 80 pg/mL, whereas G-CSF levels in 33% samples remained undetectable. The G-CSF levels and neutrophil counts in the cerebrospinal fluid were proven to be related by Spearman's rank correlation coefficient analysis (r = .724). These elevations of G-CSF levels at inflammation sites associated with bacterial meningitis may indicate that G-CSF plays an important role in the combat of bacterial infections. 
Choosing initial therapy for hypertension. A personal view. With numerous safe and effective antihypertensive drugs now available, the clinician should no longer choose only diuretic agents or beta-adrenergic receptor blockers (beta-blockers) as initial therapy. Five classes of agents, including angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, calcium entry blockers, peripheral alpha 1-adrenergic receptor blockers, and thiazide diuretic agents, are all appropriate monotherapy in properly selected patients. The choice depends on efficacy, side effects, demography, comorbidity, dosage schedule, cost, mechanism of drug action, and the pathophysiology of the patient's hypertension. Extensive data are now available that will assist the clinician in choosing an agent that has the greatest probability of success without the need for extensive biochemical or hemodynamic evaluation. 
Variations in acromial ossification simulating infant abuse in victims of sudden infant death syndrome. A variation in ossification of the acromial process of the scapula is described. Postmortem radiographs, obtained in 78 infants who died of sudden infant death syndrome, showed an ossific opacity adjacent to the acromial process in 10 infants (13%). This finding was noted bilaterally in six patients and unilaterally in four patients. No two ossicles were identical. Histologically, no growth plate cartilage was evident between the bony structure and the acromion proper; therefore, this appeared to represent a "pseudoepiphysis." Superficially, this normal variation may appear similar to an acromial fracture resulting from infant abuse. However, a careful analysis of the findings of this normal variation should help prevent any confusion with inflicted injury. 
Risk factors for pancreatic cellular injury after cardiopulmonary bypass BACKGROUND. Pancreatitis is a known complication of cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Although ischemia is believed to be a factor, the cause of pancreatitis after cardiopulmonary bypass remains unknown. METHODS. We prospectively studied 300 consecutive patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Serum amylase, pancreatic isoamylase, and serum lipase were measured on postoperative days 1,2,3,7, and 10. Pancreatic cellular injury was defined as the presence of hyperamylasemia (greater than 123 U per liter) with an increase in either the serum level of lipase (greater than 24 U per liter) or the peak level of pancreatic isoamylase. Trypsinogen-activation peptides, which indicate intrapancreatic enzyme activation, were measured in the urine of the last 101 patients studied. RESULTS. Evidence of pancreatic cellular injury was detected in 80 patients (27 percent), of whom 23 had associated abdominal signs or symptoms and 3 had severe pancreatitis (2 with pancreatic abscess and 1 with necrotizing hemorrhagic pancreatitis). Two of 19 postoperative deaths were secondary to pancreatitis. In multivariate analyses, the development of pancreatic cellular injury was significantly associated with preoperative renal insufficiency, valve surgery, postoperative hypotension, and perioperative administration of calcium chloride. The administration of more than 800 mg of calcium chloride per square meter of body-surface area was an independent predictor of pancreatic cellular injury, and the increase in risk was dose-related. No differences were found in the level of trypsinogen-activation peptides between patients who had pancreatic cellular injury and those who did not. CONCLUSIONS. Pancreatic cellular injury, as indicated by hyperamylasemia of pancreatic origin, is common after cardiac surgery. The administration of large doses of calcium chloride is an independent predictor of pancreatic cellular injury and may be a cause of it. 
Results of treatment and lessons learned from pathologically staged T4 non-small cell lung cancer. Depending on the local extension of primary non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and invaded T4 structure(s), 49 patients underwent complete (CR, n = 14) or palliative (PR, n = 13) resection of exploratory thoracotomy (ET, n = 22) between January 1982 and June 1988. Thoracic radiotherapy (TR) was given to all patients receiving PR (median dose, 43 Gy) and ET (median dose, 53 Gy). With a median follow-up of 44 months, overall 2- and 5-year survival was 25 and 5%, respectively. Patients undergoing ET plus TR had a significantly worse survival than those treated by CR (P = 0.041) and PR plus TR (P = 0.046). Only completely resected patients became long-term survivors (5-year survival, 29%) and significant predictors of their survival were previous weight loss, hemoglobin, and creatinine level, in univariate analysis, and previous weight loss in multivariate analysis. The site of initial treatment failure was mainly local for PR plus TR (85%) and systemic for CR (71%) and ET plus TR (86%). Presented results suggest that surgery might play a role for selected patients with T4 NSCLC, but advances in systemic and local therapy are necessary. 
Nutritional support in Crohn's disease: which route? Nutritional and clinical responses to three nutritional regimens were retrospectively evaluated in 81 Crohn's patients with active disease. Group 1 (n = 42) received a low residue oral diet, group 2 (n = 15) received chemically defined diets, and group 3 (n = 24), parenteral nutrition (PN). Weight gain was observed in a similar percentage of patients, whereas serum albumin increase was significant only in group 3: 3.15 +/- 0.66 versus 3.54 +/- 0.61 g/100 ml (p less than 0.05). Mean activity index decreased significantly in all groups (p less than 0.001), and length of stay in hospital was similar. Patients with intestinal obstruction had a better immediate response when submitted to PN: clinical remission was achieved in 75% of those in group 3, but in only 50% in groups 1 and 2 (p less than 0.05). Otherwise, short- and long-term outcome was similar. 
Electrothrombosis of saccular aneurysms via endovascular approach. Part 2: Preliminary clinical experience. Fifteen patients with high-risk intracranial saccular aneurysms were treated using electrolytically detachable coils introduced via an endovascular approach. The patients ranged in age from 21 to 69 years. The most frequent clinical presentation was subarachnoid hemorrhage (eight cases). Considerable thrombosis of the aneurysm (70% to 100%) was achieved in all 15 patients, and preservation of the parent artery was obtained in 14. Although temporary neurological deterioration due to the technique was recorded in one patient, no permanent neurological deficit was observed in this series and there were no deaths. It is believed that this new technology is a viable alternative in the management of patients with high-risk intracranial saccular aneurysms. It may also play an important role in the occlusion of aneurysms in the acute phase of subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Cardiovascular risk factors in young snuff-users and cigarette smokers. We studied cardiovascular risk factors in 21 young men who were habitual snuff-users, and compared them with the same risk factors in 18 non-tobacco-users and 19 cigarette smokers of the same age and body mass index. Both snuff-users and smokers showed increased levels of alcohol and coffee consumption and a decreased level of physical exercise compared to non-users. Both groups of tobacco-users showed increased serum insulin levels compared to the control group at similar blood glucose concentrations. In contrast to the smokers, snuff-users showed no significant elevation of diastolic blood pressure, haemoglobin concentrations, white cell count, serum cholesterol or triglyceride levels. Snuff users had higher plasma fibrinogen levels than non-users (P = 0.07). The use of snuff by young men appears to have less impact than smoking on cardiovascular risk factors, with the possible exception of elevated serum insulin and plasma fibrinogen levels. 
Cold cerebroplegia. A new technique of cerebral protection during operations on the transverse aortic arch. Profound hypothermia associated with circulatory arrest is the commonest method of cerebral protection during operations on the aortic arch. This technique allows a limited time to perform the aortic repair, however. It also necessitates prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass to rewarm the patient. This may be the cause of coagulation disorders or infection. Selective perfusion of the carotid arteries can also be used. When the perfusion is derived from the main arterial line, however, the repair of the aorta requires that the vessel be crossclamped, and cannot be performed in an "open, bloodless" manner. To avoid the disadvantages of both techniques, we have developed a new technique of cerebral protection. After a regular cardiopulmonary bypass has been established, the carotid arteries are cannulated and perfused with blood cooled at 6 degrees to 12 degrees C, through a separate heat exchanger, while the core temperature is maintained at moderate hypothermia (25 degrees to 28 degrees C, rectal). To perform the "open" distal repair, the cardiopulmonary bypass is discontinued while the carotid perfusion is maintained (250 to 350 ml/min). When the distal repair is completed, cardiopulmonary bypass is resumed and the carotid perfusion is discontinued. Between 1984 and June 1989, 54 patients (mean age 55 years) were operated on with this method (45 elective operations, 9 emergency procedures). Mean duration of cardiopulmonary bypass was 121 minutes (65 to 248), and mean duration of circulatory arrest was 22 minutes (10 to 51). The electroencephalogram, routinely recorded, showed return of the cerebral activity after a mean time of 12 minutes and normal activity after a mean time of 66 minutes. There was no intraoperative death. Hospital mortality rate was 13% (7/54). One death was related to neurologic disorders. All patients but one awakened normally within 8 hours after operation. Two patients (4.3%) experienced a transient neurologic episode (lateral hemianopia) 9 and 11 days postoperatively. There was no hemorrhagic complication (24-hour average blood loss: 840 +/- 540 ml). In our experience the technique of "cold cerebroplegia" has been demonstrated to provide excellent cerebral protection. It requires no prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass and does not limit the time necessary to perform the aortic repair. It may be considered as a safe alternative to profound hypothermia associated with circulatory arrest. 
The long QT syndrome. Prospective longitudinal study of 328 families. BACKGROUND. The Long QT Syndrome (LQTS) is an infrequently occurring familial disorder in which affected individuals have electrocardiographic QT interval prolongation and a propensity to ventricular tachyarrhythmic syncope and sudden death. We prospectively investigated the clinical characteristics and the long-term course of 3,343 individuals from 328 families in which one or more members were identified as affected with LQTS (QTc greater than 0.44 sec1/2). METHODS AND RESULTS. The first member of a family to be identified with LQTS, the proband, was usually brought to medical attention because of a syncopal episode during childhood or teenage years. Probands (n = 328) were younger at first contact (age 21 +/- 15 years), more likely to be female (69%), and had a higher frequency of preenrollment syncope or cardiac arrest with resuscitation (80%), congenital deafness (7%), a resting heart rate less than 60 beats/min (31%), QTc greater than or equal to 0.50 sec1/2 (52%), and a history of ventricular tachyarrhythmia (47%) than other affected (n = 688) and unaffected (n = 1,004) family members. Arrhythmogenic syncope often occurred in association with acute physical, emotional, or auditory arousal. The syncopal episodes were frequently misinterpreted as a seizure disorder. By age 12 years, 50% of the probands had experienced at least one syncopal episode or death. The rates of postenrollment syncope (one or more episodes) and probable LQTS-related death (before age 50 years) for probands (n = 235; average follow-up 54 months per patient) were 5.0% per year and 0.9% per year, respectively; these event rates were considerably higher than those observed among affected and unaffected family members. CONCLUSIONS. Among 232 probands and 1,264 family members with prospective follow-up, three factors made significant independent contributions to the risk of subsequent syncope or probable LQTS-related death before age 50 years, whichever occurred first (Cox hazard ratio; 95% confidence limits): 1) QTc (1.052; 1.017, 1.088), 2) history of cardiac event (3.1; 1.3, 7.2), and 3) heart rate (1.017; 1.004, 1.031). The findings from this prospective longitudinal study highlight the clinical features, risk factors, and course of LQTS. 
Relationship between foot transcutaneous oxygen tension and ankle systolic blood pressure at rest and following exercise. To determine whether foot transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2) and ankle systolic blood pressure (SBP) measure similar aspects of peripheral vascular occlusive disease (PVOD), the authors examined their relationship at rest and following treadmill exercise. Thirty-seven PVOD patients (mean age 69.2 +/- 0.8 years) rested supine for twenty minutes, followed by a progressive treadmill walking test at a constant speed of 2 mph. The initial grade was 0%; this increased 2% every two minutes until maximal claudication pain (n = 19) or until the occurrence of such limiting symptoms as volitional fatigue (n = 6), ST segment depression (n = 4), dyspnea (n = 3), multiple premature ventricular contractions (n = 2), and angina (n = 2). Patients then rested supine for fifteen minutes. Foot TcPO2 was recorded before, during, and after exercise, whereas ankle SBP was measured before and after exercise. At rest, a curvilinear relationship was found between foot TcPO2 and ankle SBP (foot TcPO2 = 41.89 + 0.22(ankle SBP) + 0.0005 (ankle SBP2); SEE = 9.2, R = 0.64, R2 = 0.41, p less than 0.001). In contrast, the relationship was stronger and more linear during recovery, particularly at the sixth minute (foot TcPO2) = 8.33 + 0.35 (ankle SBP); SEE = 13.6, R = 0.86, R2 = 0.73, p less than 0.001). At rest, foot TcPO2 and ankle SBP characterized different aspects of PVOD because they shared only 41% common variance. During recovery, they provided similar information because up to 73% of the variance was shared. It is concluded that foot TcPO2 should also be used to assess PVOD patients because unique information is obtained at rest and values can be recorded during exercise. 
Long-term effectiveness of nonpharmacological treatment of hypertension. Various nonpharmacological therapies reduce the blood pressure of a significant portion of both patients with established hypertension and people who are considered to be at high risk for the development of hypertension; that is, they are secondary and primary preventions. Of the various therapies, weight reduction, sodium restriction, moderation of alcohol intake, and regular aerobic exercise have been shown to be most effective, whereas the effectiveness of other practices has been less uniform or smaller in degree. Changes in lifestyle, mainly involving diet and physical activity, should be widely used to treat and, hopefully, to prevent hypertension. 
Nonspecific findings on MR imaging. The importance of correlative studies and clinical information. Although magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is highly sensitive for the detection of abnormalities of the musculoskeletal system, changes in marrow and soft-tissue signal intensity are often nonspecific, and benign conditions may be mistaken for malignancy. In an effort to identify the cause of this type of misdiagnosis in MR examinations, the MR scans were reviewed of 30 patients whose images manifested bone and/or soft-tissue changes that were initially believed to be consistent with malignancy but were later found to represent benign conditions. Of the 30 patients, MR abnormalities were attributable to trauma in 11, benign tumors and tumorlike conditions in ten, infection in seven, and prior radiotherapy in two. In 24 cases, correlative imaging studies (14 patients), appropriate clinical history (six patients), and/or physical and laboratory examinations (four patients) would have avoided these misdiagnoses. 
Ureteral catheter tip separation: potential risk using the open-end Flexi-Tip ureteral catheter. Ureteral catheters are a vital part of the urological armamentarium. We report 2 cases in which the flexible tip portion of an open-end Flexi-Tip ureteral catheter became disjointed from the shaft within the renal collecting system during endourological procedures. The etiology, prevention and management of this complication are discussed. 
The effect of quadriceps excision on functional results after distal femoral resection and prosthetic replacement of bone tumors. Although resection and reconstruction with a prosthesis is an accepted form of treatment for tumors of the distal femur, minimal effort has been made to correlate the functional result with the degree of adjacent muscle excision. From 1983 to 1986, 65 patients had distal femoral resection and prosthetic reconstruction. Ten patients had only the vastus intermedius excised (Group A), 30 patients had excision of the vastus intermedius plus either the vastus medialis or lateralis (Group B), nine patients had only the rectus femoris spared (Group C), and 16 patients had the entire quadriceps excised or conversion of the previous arthrodesis (Group D). Based on the rating system of the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society, satisfactory results were obtained in 70% of Group A patients (30% excellent and 40% good), with no poor results. In group B, 80% had good or excellent results and 7% poor results. In Group C, 78% of the patients had good results but no excellent results, whereas Group D had only 50% satisfactory results. The parameters that most often led to functional impairment were restricted motion and inadequate extensor powers. Muscle transfers, however, (flexors to extensors) were effective only in Group C patients. With proper technique and prosthetic design, satisfactory results can be achieved after distal femoral resection and prosthetic reconstruction, even after extensive quadriceps excision. 
Surgical repair of rectovaginal fistulas in patients with Crohn's disease: transvaginal approach. The surgical management of rectovaginal fistulas complicating Crohn's disease has been associated with unacceptably high failure rates. We sought to modify the available surgical techniques to provide a solution to this challenging problem. Between December 1983 and January 1990, 14 patients with Crohn's disease underwent repair of a rectovaginal fistula. A modified transvaginal approach was employed by the authors. A diverting loop ileostomy was performed on all patients, either as the initial step in the staged management of intractable perianal disease or concurrent with the repair of the rectovaginal fistula. The fistula was completely eradicated in 13 of the 14 women and did not recur during the mean follow-up period of 55.0 months (range, 3-77 months). Intestinal continuity was reestablished in these 13 patients within 6 months after the initial fistula repair. One patient with a very low-lying fistula constituted our only failure. We have found the transvaginal method preferable to the transanal approach because of the relative ease in raising the vaginal flap as compared with a flap of fibrotic and inflamed anorectal mucosa. On the basis of this study, we conclude that a modified transvaginal approach is an effective method for repair of rectovaginal fistulas secondary to Crohn's disease. 
Malignant neoplasia of the paranasal sinuses associated with mucocele. Paranasal sinus mucoceles are histologically benign and typically cause ophthalmic morbidity only after significant orbital extension. The authors describe seven patients who had both a mucocele and a malignant tumor in the same paranasal sinus and in whom the neoplasm was discovered incidentally during operation for mucocele. Although malignancy coexistent with paranasal sinus mucocele is uncommon, the association should be considered and appropriate biopsy specimens obtained if operation for mucocele is required. 
Detection of micrometastatic tumor cells in bone marrow of breast carcinoma patients. To determine the incidence and clinical significance of micrometastases in the bone marrow of breast carcinoma patients, we performed an immunoalkaline phosphatase assay using anticytokeratin (AE1, AE3, MAK-6) and antiepithelial (113F1, 260F9, 317G5) antibodies on the bone marrow aspirates of 71 stage IV disease patients with either recurrent regional or distant metastases. Although we detected tumor cells within the bone marrow of 38% of these patients with this assay, no significant correlation was seen with patient's age, menopausal status, bone scan, bone marrow core histology, response to induction chemotherapy, number of metastatic sites, dominant site of metastasis, or subsequent clinical outcome. The clinical parameters that were associated with improved survival were one dominant site of metastatic disease and regional soft tissue recurrence without distant disease. 
Echocardiography and Doppler ultrasound in the evaluation of pericardial disease. Echocardiography and Doppler ultrasound are useful in evaluating a variety of pathological conditions affecting the pericardium. Cardiac tamponade results in right atrial collapse and right ventricular diastolic collapse detectable by echocardiography. These echocardiographic signs have a high degree of sensitivity and specificity. False-negative echocardiographic studies may be seen in patients with pulmonary hypertension, and false-positive studies for cardiac tamponade may occur in severe hypovolemia. Although cardiac tamponade is usually caused by pericardial effusion, less commonly intrapericardial clot may result in hemodynamic compromise. Pericardial clot may be echogenic, and hence the diagnosis potentially can be missed. If the intrapericardial clot is localized, the classic echocardiographic signs of pericardial effusion may be absent, and a localized mass may be seen on the echocardiogram. Increased respiratory variation in transvalvular blood flow velocities detectable by Doppler ultrasound is found in cardiac tamponade. Doppler ultrasound studies may be particularly useful in those patients in whom the characteristic echocardiographic abnormalities are absent. Both M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography may be useful in diagnosing pericardial thickening. Constrictive pericarditis results in a variety of echocardiographic abnormalities including pericardial thickening; biatrial enlargement with good left ventricular function; a diastolic septal bounce; and a dilated inferior vena cava without significant respiratory variation. Doppler echocardiographic abnormalities are commonly found in constrictive pericarditis. Echocardiography is also useful as a guide to performing pericardiocentesis and in the detection of pericardial adhesions and pericardial metastases. 
Pericardial actinomycosis: case report and review. Pericardial actinomycosis is rare and frequently goes unrecognized during life, a circumstance due in part to a paucity of clinical manifestations and to a low rate of positivity in cultures. We present a case report of pericardial actinomycosis and a review of 18 other cases reported in the literature since 1950. Possible risk factors include aspiration pneumonia, alcohol abuse, and periodontal disease. Actinomyces may cause purulent pericarditis that evolves into cardiac tamponade or constrictive pericarditis. Clues to the identity of the causative organism (e.g., draining sinus tracts and the presence of sulfur granules) are frequently absent, and cultures often fail to yield the organism. Histologic examination of material obtained by biopsy is often necessary to make the diagnosis. Most cases originate from a thoracopulmonary site of actinomycosis and spread directly to the pericardium. Widespread dissemination to extrathoracic organs is uncommon. Treatment consists of high-dose, long-term antimicrobial therapy as well as drainage of the pericardial space. 
Left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertension. Major advances in left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and hypertension have occurred in recent years. The ability to diagnose LVH has been improved by echocardiography, and with this technique it has been shown that evidence of LVH is an important independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The major cause of death in patients with hypertension and LVH is coronary artery disease. Therefore an understanding of the interrelationships between these two disorders is fundamental, and it is now clear that the hypertrophied ventricle is vulnerable to myocardial ischemia. Appreciation of the mechanisms of sudden death has also increased, although the exact situation in patients with LVH remains to be clarified. Regression of LVH is known to occur with the use of several different antihypertensive drugs. Recent studies indicate that the calcium blocking agent nicardipine, in addition to beta-blocking drugs and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, brings about LVH regression without any deterioration of left ventricular function. However, further studies are needed to assess the long-term benefits of this regression. 
Erythropoietin deficiency after coronary artery bypass procedures. Erythropoietin is the primary regulator of erythropoiesis. Erythropoietin has been shown to increase exponentially in response to linear decreases in hematocrit in normal, unstressed animals. However, the effect of operation, with its attendant stress, on erythropoietin levels is unknown. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of surgical stress on erythropoietin. Twenty otherwise healthy patients scheduled for elective surgical procedures were studied. The cholecystectomy group included 10 patients who underwent cholecystectomy for documented stone disease. Ten patients who underwent coronary artery bypass procedures constituted the coronary artery bypass grafting group. Patients were studied preoperatively as well as on the first and second postoperative days. The hematocrit and erythropoietin levels were similar in both groups preoperatively. The hematocrit in the coronary artery bypass grafting group was lower than that of the cholecystectomy group on postoperative day 1 (0.31 versus 0.36; p less than 0.003) and postoperative day 2 (0.30 versus 0.36; p less than 0.001). During the first two postoperative days the erythropoietin levels were similar between groups. The data show that postoperative erythropoietin levels are similar after coronary artery bypass grafting, despite more severe anemia, when compared with cholecystectomy. This suggests that after coronary artery bypass grafting there is a relative deficiency of erythropoietin. Administration of recombinant human erythropoietin to patients undergoing surgical procedures could correct the erythropoietin deficiency and accelerate postoperative erythropoiesis. 
Ruling out acute myocardial infarction. A prospective multicenter validation of a 12-hour strategy for patients at low risk BACKGROUND. Although previous investigations have suggested that 24 hours is required to exclude acute myocardial infarction in patients who are admitted to a coronary care unit for the evaluation of acute chest pain, we hypothesized that a 12-hour period might be adequate for patients with a low probability of infarction at the time of admission. METHODS. Using a Bayesian model, we developed a strategy to identify candidates for a shorter period of observation from an analysis of a derivation set of 976 patients with acute chest pain who were admitted to three teaching and four community hospitals. In the derivation set, patients whose clinical characteristics in the emergency room predicted a low (less than or equal to 7 percent) probability of myocardial infarction had only a 0.4 percent risk of infarction if they had neither abnormal levels of cardiac enzymes nor recurrent ischemic pain during the first 12 hours of hospitalization. In an independent testing set of 2684 patients from the seven hospitals, 957 admitted patients (36 percent) were classified as candidates for this 12-hour period of observation according to a previously published multivariate algorithm. Few of these patients were actually transferred from a monitored setting at 12 hours. RESULTS. Of the 771 candidates for a 12-hour period of observation who did not have enzyme abnormalities or recurrent pain during the first 12 hours, 4 (0.5 percent) were subsequently found to have acute myocardial infarction, and only 3 (0.4 percent) died after primary cardiac arrests, all of which occurred three to five days after admission. Rates of other major cardiovascular complications were low in the patients who might have been transferred from the coronary care unit after 12 hours with this strategy. In patients with a higher initial risk of infarction, the standard strategy of 24-hour observation identified all but 11 of 739 acute myocardial infarctions (1 percent). CONCLUSIONS. Emergency room clinical data can be used to identify a large subgroup of patients for whom a 12-hour period of observation is normally sufficient to exclude acute myocardial infarction. Patient-specific evaluation and treatment can then proceed without the restrictions imposed by "rule-out" protocols for myocardial infarction. 
Cholesterol screening management of Florida's pediatric population. The current cholesterol screening and management of Florida's pediatric population is evaluated utilizing a questionnaire mailed to 1,534 pediatric health care providers. Twenty percent of the physicians responded. Of the respondents, 65% do not routinely screen for the presence of hypercholesterolemia. Only 28% of the respondents obtain serum total cholesterol measurements in accordance with the American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Nutrition recommendations. The serum total cholesterol concentration prompting treatment was 240 mg/dL (6.2 mM). Dietary counseling alone, or in combination with exercise, was the initial treatment approach recommended by 98% of the responding physicians. Dietary education for the hypercholesterolemic patient was provided by both dieticians (46%) and physicians (42%). If the initial dietary intervention was unsuccessful, 48% of the physicians would begin medical therapy. The most commonly prescribed medication was a bile acid sequestrant (70%), with the majority (52%) referring their patient to a subspecialist for evaluation and care. 
Flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser for port-wine stains in infancy: earlier versus later treatment. Twelve children, 6 to 30 weeks of age (average 14.9 weeks), with port-wine stains of the head and neck were treated with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser at 585 nm and 450 microsecond pulse duration. Ten of 12 patients (83%) showed more than 50% lightening of their port-wine stains after 2.9 treatment sessions (2.9 +/- 1.4 [+/- standard deviation]). Forty-five percent of the patients demonstrated 75% or more lightening of their lesions after a mean of 3.8 treatments (+/- 1.6). No lesions in this group cleared completely after a mean of 2.8 treatments. Treated skin was identical in texture to normal skin in all patients. There was no evidence of depressed scars, atrophy, hyperpigmentation, or hypopigmentation in the treated areas. These results indicate that pulsed dye laser treatment of port-wine stains can be undertaken safely in infancy. 
Diffuse melanosis in metastatic malignant melanoma. The skin of a patient with diffuse melanosis as a result of malignant melanoma was examined by light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. Our findings indicate that the slate-blue discoloration in this patient was due to pigment deposition in dermal macrophages and endothelial cells. Multiple attempts to identify disseminated metastatic melanoma cells were unsuccessful. 
Intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy for primary locally advanced rectal and rectosigmoid carcinoma. To improve local control and survival in patients with primary locally advanced rectal and rectosigmoid carcinoma, intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy (IORT) has been used with a combination of moderate- to high-dose preoperative radiation therapy and surgical resection. Sixty-five patients underwent resection with the intention of using IORT if areas at high risk for local recurrence were apparent at surgery. For 20 patients undergoing complete resection with IORT, the 5-year actuarial local control and disease-free survival (DFS) was 88% and 53%, respectively. The results for 22 patients with pathologically documented residual carcinoma were less satisfactory with a 5-year actuarial local control and DFS of 60% and 32%, respectively. In this latter group, local control and DFS correlated with the extent of residual disease: patients with only microscopic disease had a 5-year actuarial local control and DFS of 69% and 47%, respectively, whereas for patients with macroscopic disease, these figures were 50% and 17%, respectively. For 18 patients undergoing complete resection without IORT or additional postoperative radiation therapy, the 5-year actuarial local control and DFS was 67% and 53%, respectively. Because local failure will occur in at least 30% of patients undergoing partial resection with or without IORT as well as patients undergoing complete resection of advanced tumors without IORT, additional postoperative radiation therapy should be considered. 
Parameters for and safety of contact Nd:YAG laser irradiation of early gastric cancer: an in vitro study. Early gastric cancers have been treated by endoscopic contact Nd:YAG laser irradiation. The extent of thermal damage produced by this laser system has been inadequately investigated. In an in vitro study we have shown that contact laser probes produce consistent and reproducible thermal lesions in the human stomach wall. Contact laser energies of 40 to 60 joules are optimal for the ablation of early gastric cancer. Energies greater than 90 joules are associated with a high incidence of gastric perforation. Contact laser probes may have advantages over non-contact laser techniques for the endoscopic treatment of early gastric cancer in patients who are unfit for major surgery. 
Toxicity and immunomodulatory effects of interleukin-2 after autologous bone marrow transplantation for hematologic malignancies. Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) for advanced hematologic malignancies is associated with high relapse rates. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells represent a potentially non-cross-resistant therapeutic modality that might prevent or delay relapses if used early after ABMT at a time when the tumor burden is minimal. However, high-dose chemoradiotherapy and ABMT might increase patients' susceptibility to IL-2 toxicity, and might interfere with immunologic responses to IL-2 in vivo. Therefore, to determine safety, tolerance, and immunomodulatory effects of IL-2 therapy early after ABMT, IL-2 was administered by continuous intravenous infusion to 16 patients 14 to 91 days (median, 33) after ABMT for acute leukemia, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma. Patients were sequentially assigned to escalating IL-2 "induction" doses (0.3 to 4.5 x 10(6) U/m2/d, days 1 to 5), and all patients received a nonescalating IL-2 "maintenance" dose (0.3 x 10(6) U/m2/d, days 12 to 21). Most patients exhibited mild to moderate fever, nausea, diarrhea, and/or skin rash with IL-2 infusions. The maximum tolerated "induction" dose was 3.0 x 10(6) U/m2/d; dose-limiting toxicities were hypotension and thrombocytopenia. All toxicities reversed on stopping the IL-2 infusions, and all patients completed "maintenance." Postinfusion lymphocytosis was exhibited by patients at all IL-2 dose levels. With the higher IL-2 doses, increased percentages of patients' PBMC expressed CD16 and CD56, with augmented lysis of K562 and Daudi, reflecting the induction of natural killer and circulating LAK effector activities. Increased LAK precursor activity was exhibited by patients at all IL-2 dose levels. Thus, the IL-2 therapy regimen was safely tolerated after ABMT, and pronounced immunomodulatory effects were observed with the higher IL-2 doses. These studies support the planned use of IL-2 and LAK cells after ABMT in an attempt to reduce relapses of advanced hematologic malignancies. 
The pathogenesis of hypertension: black-white differences. In summary, for reasons that are not clear, some persons seem to be extremely good at retaining sodium on a high-sodium diet or poor at excreting sodium on a high-sodium intake. This is more frequent in Western hemisphere blacks than in whites in the West or in blacks in Africa. These geographic/ethnic differences in sodium handling ability may be related to environmental factors or, more likely, to inherited differences in the ability to conserve sodium based on the evolutionary principle of survival fo the fittest for the ability to conserve sodium. The frequency of this salt-conserving (thrifty) genotype in Western hemisphere blacks may have been further increased as a consequence of severe selection pressures for survival based on the ability to conserve sodium during the slavery period of history in the West. One characteristic of the blood pressure control systems of Western hemisphere blacks is suppression of plasma renin activity without suppression of aldosterone production. In addition there is greater nephrosclerosis in blacks than whites and a more rapid decline in creatinine clearance with age. When more sodium is ingested than the kidneys are able to handle (excrete), there is a (transient) slight positive sodium balance; as a result sodium, chloride, and water are retained, resulting in an expansion of plasma volume (Fig. 7-3). The initial physiologic responses include (increased) secretion of atrial natriuretic peptides and the digitalis-like substance (natriuretic hormone), and inhibition of vasopressin and aldosterone secretion. The net effect is directly enhanced natriuresis and diuresis, and a reduction in plasma volume, with no significant effect on blood pressure. However, if there is a continuing tendency to sodium retention and volume expansion, the capacity of the aforementioned mechanisms to control plasma volume will be exceeded; then, the chronically elevated level of the digitalis-like substance will inhibit the sodium pumps in the arterial and venous smooth muscle cells and in the sympathetic neurons. The increased venous tone will help to reduce plasma volume directly by reducing central venous volume. Arterial tone will be increased by direct action of the digitalis-like substance on the arterial smooth muscle and, indirectly, via the hormone's action on the sympathetic neurons. Initially, of course, blood pressure will be maintained in the normal range (but will be labile) because of the compensating cardiovascular reflexes. Once the capacity of these reflexes to control blood pressure is exceeded, however, the blood pressure will begin to rise; this will induce a pressure natriuresis to help restore plasma volume to normal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Complications of transurethral electro-incision of posterior urethral valves. The development of dense urethral strictures following transurethral resection of posterior urethral valves is a well known complication, especially in the neonate. In 85 boys with posterior urethral valves no strictures were found during follow-up. Urinary incontinence associated with transurethral incision occurred in 3 patients and a small urethral diverticulum was found in 1. The complication rate associated with the transurethral incision itself was 5%. Our technique for transurethral incision of posterior urethral valves is described. 
Intraaortic balloon pumping as the postangioplasty strategy in acute myocardial infarction. To assess the usefulness of intraaortic balloon pumping (IABP) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 114 patients with anterior AMI undergoing emergency percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) for total occlusion of the left anterior descending artery were studied. After successful PTCA 66 patients were treated with conventional therapy (group I), and 48 patients were treated with IABP for 25 +/- 8 hours (group II). The reocclusion rate was significantly lower in group II (2.4% vs 17.7% p less than 0.05). An increase in ejection fraction in group II compared with group I was marginally significant (4.5 +/- 12.2% vs 9.2 +/- 13.0%, p = 0.08). Vascular complications occurred in two patients, but there were no deaths from IABP. These results suggest that after successful PTCA for acute myocardial infarction, IABP prevents reocclusion and may add strength to reperfusion in the improvement of left ventricular function. 
Is adjuvant chemotherapy necessary for patients with stage B1 testicular cancer? Controversy exists concerning the role of adjunctive chemotherapy in patients with regional nodal involvement. A randomized study reported a 48% relapse rate for patients with positive nodes (stage B1 or stage B2), all of whom were salvaged by full-dose platinum-based chemotherapy. In a series of patients with positive nodes who received two cycles of adjunctive chemotherapy postoperatively, the relapse rate was only 2%. In order to evaluate the effect of retroperitoneal lymph node dissection on relapse rates in patients with stage B1 testicular cancer, a retrospective review of a series of 39 patients was performed. Criteria for inclusion included pathologic stage B1 (less than six positive nodes, located in the primary landing site, with no node greater than 2 cm in diameter and no extracapsular lymph node extension). Patients who fulfilled the criteria along with normalization of tumor markers were followed-up expectantly after retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. Thirty-nine patients were followed from 1 to 10 years with the median duration of follow-up of 3.5 years. Ten of the 39 patients had modified retroperitoneal lymph node dissections with preservation of antegrade ejaculation. The other 29 had full retroperitoneal lymph node dissections. Three relapses were seen, one patient with retrocrural and pulmonary metastases and two patients with pulmonary metastases only for a relapse rate of 8% (three of 39). Patients with stage B2 disease received adjunctive chemotherapy with two or three cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy. We conclude that retroperitoneal lymph node dissection alone is adequate treatment for the majority of patients with pathologic stage B1 testicular cancer. In that subset of patients, adjunctive chemotherapy should be reserved for relapse. 
Recurrent spinal cord tethering by sacral nerve root following lipomyelomeningocele surgery. Case report. A 21-year-old woman had recurrent progressive weakness/hypesthesia and pain in both lower extremities. At the age of 5 and 19 years, she had undergone surgical resection of a lipomyelomeningocele at L5-S1. Surgical exploration revealed that the cord was tethered and pulled over to the side by an excessively short right S-1 nerve root. The contralateral L-5 and S-1 nerve roots were markedly stretched. Division of the right S-1 nerve root resulted in prompt disappearance of pain in the lower extremities and improvement in neurological function. 
Let sleeping dogs lie: role of the omentum in the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis procedure. A surgical aphorism has long held that the omentum is the "watchdog of the abdomen." However, detractors believe that leaving the omentum behind after colectomy precipitates later small bowel obstruction. A retrospective comparison was made between a group of 406 patients (Group I) having omentectomy with proctocolectomy and ileoanal anastomosis and a group of 239 patients (Group II) having a similar procedure without omentectomy. Follow-up in this series of 645 patients was 4.3 +/- 2.1 years (mean +/- SEM). No difference was present in the rate of partial small bowel obstruction or complete small bowel obstruction between Group I patients (32 percent partial, 12 percent complete) and Group II patients (29 percent partial, 12 percent complete; P greater than 0.1). However, a better outcome with regard to postoperative sepsis and sepsis requiring operation was apparent in Group II patients retaining the omentum (4 percent and 3 percent, respectively) than in Group I patients (10 percent and 8 percent, respectively), in whom the omentum was removed (P less than 0.01). As this experience would support, we urge surgeons to "let sleeping dogs lie" and, when possible, retain the omentum when performing colectomy or proctocolectomy. 
Cancer incidence following subtotal gastrectomy. Hawaiian Japanese men (n = 432) who had undergone subtotal gastrectomy for peptic ulcers before 1971-1975 were followed up for detection of cancer development. They showed a significant increase in colon cancer risk (P = 0.008) and lung cancer risk (P = 0.002) compared with 6161 nongastrectomized men. The association with lung cancer persisted after adjustment for cigarette use (P = 0.03). Alcohol consumption was associated with colonic cancer in this cohort, and gastrectomized men consumed more alcohol than nongastrectomized men; however, the association of gastrectomy with colon cancer persisted after adjustment for alcohol use (P = 0.02). Gastrectomized men were lighter and had lower serum lipid levels than controls, suggesting that undernutrition might favor the development of some cancers. The type of gastroenteric anastomosis did not influence the cancer risk level in the colon or lung. 
Reasons for the lack of benefit of immediate angioplasty during recombinant tissue plasminogen activator therapy for acute myocardial infarction: a regional wall motion analysis. European Cooperative Study Group. Regional ventricular wall motion analysis utilizing three different methods was performed on predischarge left ventriculograms from 291 of 367 patients enrolled in a randomized trial of single chain recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), aspirin and heparin with and without immediate angioplasty in patients with acute myocardial infarction. With univariate analysis, no difference in regional wall motion variables between the two treatment groups was observed. However, with individual baseline risk assessment by multivariate linear regression analysis using baseline characteristics known to be related to left ventricular function after thrombolytic therapy or outcome of coronary angioplasty, or both, an excess of high risk patients in the invasive treatment group was detected. To adjust for this unequal distribution of baseline risk, multivariate linear regression analysis was performed. No benefit of immediate coronary angioplasty was observed after adjustment. Reocclusion or reinfarction, or both, occurred more frequently in the invasive than in the noninvasive treatment group (18% versus 13%, respectively). Among patients with a patent infarct-related vessel on angiography between days 10 and 22 and without reinfarction before angiography, there was a trend toward benefit from the invasive strategy, indicating that reocclusion and reinfarction might be responsible for the lack of benefit of the invasive strategy. This implies that immediate coronary angioplasty may be beneficial in selected patients, provided that these complications can be prevented. 
Percutaneous ethanol injection therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma: analysis of 77 patients. Although sonographically guided percutaneous ethanol injection therapy has been attracting a great deal of attention in the treatment of liver neoplasms, few reports regarding long-term results of this therapy have been published. We report here our 4-year experience, in which ethanol injection was performed 419 times on 108 lesions in 77 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Histopathologic examination performed in 14 cases after the therapy revealed that the lesion was completely necrotic in 10 cases, 90% necrotic in three cases, and 70% necrotic in the remaining case. Angiography performed after the therapy showed complete disappearance of tumor stain in 37 of 42 cases treated with ethanol injection. CT after the therapy showed no enhancement of the treated lesion in 55 of 56 cases. Elevated serum levels of alpha-fetoprotein decreased in 21 of 24 cases. Ethanol injection improved the long-term prognosis of the patients. Among the 50 patients in whom there were three or fewer lesions and all lesions were treated by ethanol injection, the 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-year survival rates were 89%, 74%, 68%, and 60%, respectively. Factors that significantly affected the prognosis were the goal of the treatment, liver function, and size of the largest lesion. Serious complications rarely occurred even in patients with severe liver dysfunction. Percutaneous ethanol injection therapy appears to be valuable for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Effect of increasing degrees of ischemic injury on myocardial oxidative metabolism early after reperfusion in isolated rat hearts. The present investigation studied the effect of increasing severities of ischemic injury on recovery of oxidative metabolism after reperfusion in isolated rat hearts perfused retrogradely with erythrocyte-containing medium. Hearts subjected to 60 minutes of low-flow ischemia (5% of control perfusion) exhibited delayed but sustained recovery of left ventricular pressure development during reperfusion and preservation of ultrastructure delineated with electron microscopy. Immediately after reperfusion, myocardial oxygen consumption returned to control values, well before left ventricular pressure development recovered. Early after reperfusion release of 14CO2 from [1-14C]palmitate was reduced (-53%, p less than 0.01). Conversely, release of 14CO2 from [U-14C]glucose was increased (+131%, p less than 0.05). After 60 minutes of reperfusion 14CO2 release had completely returned to normal for both labeled substrates. Pulse-labeling experiments indicated that during transient depression of [1-14C]palmitate oxidation more tracer was incorporated into myocardial lipid esters, primarily triglycerides. In contrast to hearts subjected to low-flow ischemia, hearts subjected to 60 minutes of no-flow ischemia exhibited poor recovery of contractile function during the reperfusion period. Electron microscopic examination of reperfused hearts showed advanced myocyte damage consistent with irreversible injury. Interestingly, myocardial oxygen consumption in this group also recovered to control values. The substrate pattern during the early reperfusion period was similar to that of hearts subjected to low-flow ischemia. After 120 minutes of no-flow ischemia, recovery of oxidative metabolism was virtually absent. The results indicate a pronounced dissociation between recovery of oxidative metabolism and of contractile function in reperfused myocardium. The oxidative metabolic rate was disproportionately high compared with contractile function, not only in reversibly "stunned" hearts, but also in severely damaged hearts exhibiting signs of irreversible injury. 
Pituitary adenomas: automatic static perimetry and Goldmann perimetry. A comparative study of 345 visual field charts. In a series of 81 cases of pituitary adenoma 345 charts of visual field performed with static automatic perimetry (AP) on the Vision Monitor and Goldmann perimetry (GP) were compared. Generally both methods were equivalent in the detection of chiasmal compression. The charts were divided into two groups: (A) 208 charts and (B) 137 charts according to the number of isoptres investigated: two (V4, 112) or three (V4, 112, 12). In group A the AP was more often altered than the GP, and the difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). In group B the GP seemed more effective, but the number of questionable cases was greater and the difference was not statistically significant. When the most internal isoptre of GP was outside the central 30 degrees, AP was more often abnormal (29%) than GP (2.2%), and the difference was statistically significant (chi 2, p less than 0.001). Within the central 30 degrees the GP seemed more often to be altered (23% of cases) than the AP (19.4%), but one-third of the cases were questionable. Within the central 30 degrees both techniques gave identical results and there was no statistically significant difference. The discrepancies between both static and kinetic techniques are an argument for their complementary use. 
Primary soft tissue tumours of the pelvis causing referred pain in the leg. Referred pain in the leg is occasionally due to a pelvic soft tissue tumour. Among 11 patients who presented this way, one had a lymphoma, one had a benign schwannoma, and nine had soft tissue sarcomas. Most patients had undergone a variety of procedures, including laminectomy, before the correct diagnosis was established. In five cases, an accurate diagnosis was obtained by needle biopsy. The lymphoma responded to chemotherapy, and the benign schwannoma was excised. Of the nine patients with soft tissue sarcoma, six underwent marginal/intracapsular excision, three receiving supplementary radiotherapy, and two were treated by nonsurgical means. Hindquarter amputation was technically impossible or inappropriate in these cases. All those with high-grade tumours have died or have metastases. Of four patients with low-grade tumours, three have exhibited only slow disease progression. Careful judgment and a precise histopathological diagnosis are required in planning treatment for patients with pelvic soft tissue tumours causing referred pain in the leg. 
Urothelial leiomyomatous hamartoma of the kidney. A 34-year-old woman presented with a renal pelvic mass. A nephroureterectomy including a cuff of bladder, was performed and pathologic examination revealed a hamartoma involving the renal parenchyma and pelvis. The pelvic portion of the tumor was composed of papillae lined by urothelium; the parenchymal portion of the tumor was composed of tubules within a fibromuscular stroma. The authors propose that this is a distinct entity not previously described in the literature. 
Restoration of Na(+)-K+ pump activity and resting membrane potential by myo-inositol supplementation in neuroblastoma cells chronically exposed to glucose or galactose. myo-Inositol uptake by culture neuroblastoma cells at a concentration of myo-inositol less than 50 microM was largely Na+ dependent. Exposing neuroblastoma cells to media supplemented with increasing concentrations of myo-inositol resulted in an increase in myo-inositol accumulation and intracellular content, but myo-inositol incorporation into phospholipids was not increased. The data indicate that myo-inositol exists as separate pools in neuroblastoma cells, and one or more of these pools may contribute to phospholipid synthesis. Exposing neuroblastoma cells to an increased concentration of glucose caused a decrease in myo-inositol uptake by two separate mechanisms. Acute exposure of the cells to 30 mM glucose caused a myo-inositol concentration-dependent decrease in Na(+)-dependent myo-inositol uptake. We propose that the acute inhibition of myo-inositol uptake by glucose is likely due to a competitive type of inhibition. Chronic exposure of cells to media containing 30 mM glucose or 30 mM galactose also caused decreases in myo-inositol uptake and incorporation into inositol phospholipids and intracellular myo-inositol content. This decrease in myo-inositol metabolism persisted at a higher concentration of external myo-inositol than the acute inhibition. Supplementing media containing 30 mM glucose or 30 mM galactose with 250 microM myo-inositol restored myo-inositol metabolism and content. The inhibition of myo-inositol uptake by cells chronically exposed to increased concentrations of glucose or galactose was due to a noncompetitive type of inhibition that was blocked by the addition of sorbinil. Chronic exposure of neuroblastoma cells to media containing 30 mM glucose or 30 mM galactose caused a decrease in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase transport activity and resting membrane potential. 
Maternal and fetal haemodynamics in hypertensive pregnancies during maternal treatment with intravenous hydralazine or labetalol. Intravenous treatment with 10 mg of hydralazine or 100 mg of labetalol was randomly allocated to 30 hypertensive pregnant women. Umbilical artery flow velocity waveforms were recorded using a pulsed Doppler duplex scanner (ATL Mk V) and umbilical artery pulsatility index (PI) and fetal heart rate (FHR) were derived from these recordings. Maternal blood pressure decreased significantly after both drugs. Maternal pulse rate increased after hydralazine but did not change significantly after labetalol. FHR did not change significantly after hydralazine but decreased after labetalol. PI decreased after hydralazine and increased after labetalol--most fetuses showed little change but a few in each group showed large changes in PI, as did two of five additional patients studied. We attributed the decrease in PI in some fetuses after hydralazine to vasodilation, and the increase in PI in some fetuses after labetalol to vasoconstriction in the fetoplacental circulation, suggesting that fetal beta-blockade may occur after maternal treatment with labetalol. 
Selective effects of acute and chronic ethanol exposure on neuropeptide and guanine nucleotide stimulated phospholipase C activity in intact N1E-115 neuroblastoma. The influence of acute and chronic ethanol exposures on the coupling of neurotensin and bradykinin receptors to phospholipase C was determined in intact N1E-115 cells. Phospholipase C was monitored by the formation of total [3H]inositol phosphates in the presence of lithium in cells prelabeled with [3H]inositol. Acute exposure to ethanol over a range of 50 to 200 mM inhibited the stimulation of [3H]inositol phosphate formation elicited by neurotensin and bradykinin. In cells chronically exposed to 100 mM ethanol for 7 days, neither basal- nor neurotensin-stimulated [3H]inositol phosphate formation differed significantly from those of control (untreated) cells. In contrast, the [3H]inositol response to bradykinin was significantly inhibited in cells chronically exposed to ethanol. Because chronic ethanol exposure had no parallel effects on either the specific binding of [3H]bradykinin or the stimulation of [3H]inositol phosphate formation by the stable GTP analog, guanine 5'-(y-thiotriphosphate), it is suggested that chronic ethanol impairs the ability of bradykinin receptors to activate the guanine nucleotide binding protein associated with phospholipase C. In addition, because chronic ethanol had no effect on the inositol phosphate response to neurotensin, it is proposed that certain types of receptor-guanine nucleotide binding protein interactions are more vulnerable than are others to disruption by chronic ethanol treatment. 
Identification of nuclear tau isoforms in human neuroblastoma cells. The tau proteins have been reported only in association with microtubules and with ribosomes in situ, in the normal central nervous system. In addition, tau has been shown to be an integral component of paired helical filaments, the principal constituent of the neurofibrillary tangles found in brains of patients with Alzheimer disease and of most aged individuals with Down syndrome (trisomy 21). We report here the localization of the well-characterized Tau-1 monoclonal antibody to the nucleolar organizer regions of the acrocentric chromosomes and to their interphase counterpart, the fibrillar component of the nucleolus, in human neuroblastoma cells. Similar localization to the nucleolar organizer regions was also observed in other human cell lines and in one monkey kidney cell line but was not seen in non-primate species. Immunochemically, we further demonstrate the existence of the entire tau molecule in the isolated nuclei of neuroblastoma cells. Nuclear tau proteins, like the tau proteins of the paired helical filaments, cannot be extracted in standard SDS-containing electrophoresis sample buffer but require pretreatment with formic acid prior to immunoblot analysis. This work indicates that tau may function in processes not directly associated with microtubules and that highly insoluble complexes of tau may also play a role in normal cellular physiology. 
Differentiation between somatic and cognitive/affective components in commonly used measurements of depression in patients with chronic low-back pain. Let's not mix apples and oranges. Patients with chronic low-back pain are frequently diagnosed as depressed. However, many of the neurovegetative signs of depression may also result from pain. The purpose of the present study was 1) to investigate the relationship between commonly used measurements of depression and pain perception; and 2) to examine the utility of differentiating between somatic signs and cognitive/affective symptoms of depression in patients with chronic low-back pain. The Beck Depression Inventory and the Hamilton Psychiatric Rating Scale for Depression were divided into cognitive/affective and somatic subscales. These measures, as well as the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, were administered to 111 patients with chronic low-back pain. Analyses revealed significant correlations between depression scores and self-reported pain intensity. The cognitive/affective subscale of the Beck Depression Inventory resulted in the only nonsignificant correlation with pain intensity. These findings suggest that commonly used measurements of depression are confounded with pain symptomatology and that the cognitive/affective category of the Beck Depression Inventory may prove to be a more accurate measurement of depression in patients with chronic low-back pain. 
Patient dose and risk in mammography. Patient dose in mammography is estimated by two different methods which are compared and which give good agreement. A mean tissue dose of about 1 mGy per film is found for a breast of 4.5 cm compressed thickness. Variables which affect dose are then considered quantitatively, including compressed breast thickness, tube potential, grids, magnification and beam collimation. The variables having the greatest effect are breast thickness and magnification. For example, an 8 cm breast receives about four times the mean tissue dose of a 3.5 cm breast. Similarly, using a magnification factor of about 2, dose is increased about four times in the primary beam, but the adverse consequences may be largely removed with conventional collimation to part of the breast only. Finally, the dose estimates are combined with existing data on breast cancer induction to predict the risk of carcinogenesis in a breast screening programme. For example, in a screening centre performing 15,000 examinations per year, only one induced cancer is predicted in about 7 years of screening under average UK conditions of age and breast thickness. 
Coronary heart disease: black-white differences. Important features of the racial patterns in CHD at the present time are summarized in Table 15-10. Many of these conclusions follow inevitably from the economic disadvantage suffered by blacks, and the overwhelming importance of hypertension in this population. More knowledge is needed regarding the value of standard diagnostic tools in distinguishing noncoronary from coronary chest pain symptoms. A hard look is also needed at questions of access for blacks, particularly to angioplasty and thrombolytic therapy. There is additional growing evidence that the gains against CHD have been concentrated primarily among the educated and affluent. New strategies will need to be developed if we are to repeat the kind of gains against cardiovascular disease among blacks in the 1990s that were made in the 1970s and 1980s. 
Chylothorax after oesophagectomy. Chylothorax is an uncommon complication of oesophagectomy. In a review of 537 oesophageal resections there were 11 cases of chylothorax, an incidence of 2.0 per cent. There was no correlation with site, size, penetration, lymph node status, length or type of tumour but there was a significant correlation between chylothorax and the type of operative procedure carried out. The incidence in 95 transhiatal resections was 10.5 per cent. The incidence following 442 transthoracic procedures was 0.2 per cent (P less than 0.001) with one chylous fistula occurring after a three-stage oesophagectomy. Initial management was conservative with chest drainage and total parenteral nutrition. Thoracotomy and duct ligation was subsequently carried out in three patients and was successful in two. The third patient died. Conservative management alone was successful in four out of eight patients, with closure of the fistula at a median of 35 days (range 14-42 days). Four patients treated conservatively died. Transhiatal oesophagectomy greatly increases the risk of chylothorax, a condition that carries a high mortality rate (46 per cent in this series) whether managed conservatively or by surgical intervention. 
Establishment and characterization of a new human leukemia cell line derived from M4E0. A new human leukemia cell line, designated as ME-1, was established from the peripheral blood leukemia cells of a patient with acute myelomonocytic leukemia with eosinophilia (M4E0). This cell line has the characteristic chromosome abnormality of M4E0, inv(16) (p13q22). When cultured in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10% fetal calf serum, ME-1 cells were monoblastoid, but with the addition of cytokines such as interleukin-3 (IL-3), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), IL-4, or medium conditioned by phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human peripheral leukocytes (PHA-LCM), the cells exhibited differentiation to macrophage-like cells. PHA-LCM also promoted eosinophilic-lineage differentiation of this cell line, although IL-5 did not do so. To elucidate the mechanism of proliferation and differentiation of ME-1 cells, we studied the effect of a potent inhibitor of protein kinase C, 1-(5-isoquinolinyl-sulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7), on colony formation of ME-1 cells. H-7 inhibited colony formation of ME-1 cells by IL-3 or GM-CSF dose dependently, but had little inhibitory effect on colony formation by IL-4. These results indicate that the proliferation and differentiation of ME-1 cells by IL-3 or GM-CSF were related to the activation of protein kinase C, while those by IL-4 involved other regulatory systems. ME-1 cells should be useful for studying the pathogenesis of M4E0 and the mechanisms of proliferation and differentiation of leukemic and normal progenitors by cytokines. 
Phosphate metabolites and steroid hormone receptors of benign and malignant breast tumors. A Nuclear Magnetic Resonance study. Phosphorous 31 (31P) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were recorded from perchloric acid extracts of benign and malignant breast tumors. The spectra were correlated with the histopathologic diagnosis and the steroid receptor status of the tumor. Higher relative content of the lipid-derived metabolite glycerolphosphoethanolamine (GPE), the high-energy nucleoside phosphates (nucleoside-diphosphate [NDP], nucleoside-triphosphate [NTP]), and sugar esters of uridine diphosphate (UDPS) appeared in the carcinomas. Malignant tumors also showed a lower ratio of phosphoethanolamine to phosphocholine (PE/PC) than benign conditions. Lower content of the lipid-derived metabolite glycerolphosphocholine (GPC) and high content of the high-energy compound phosphocreatine (PCr) were associated with malignant tumors having high content of estrogen receptors (ER). High PCr content was also associated in the carcinomas with high progesterone receptors (PgR) content. In the benign tumors NDP and NTP were higher in tumors with high PgR content. The authors suggest that 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of the breast can provide additional variables to diagnose malignancy, and when combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), invasive procedures may be avoided. It also seems that levels of PCr and GPC obtained from the spectra can serve as markers to hormonal receptor status of breast carcinomas, and may be used in addition to the ER and PgR content to improve prediction of the response to hormonal therapy. Additional development requires in situ MRI and MRS combined studies. 
Spontaneous regression of juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma. This report describes the spontaneous regression of a biopsy-proved juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma that was first diagnosed when the child was age 11 years. The patient was followed up over a 12-year period during which he did not receive any therapy. Total involution of this lesion can be demonstrated by serial computed tomographic studies. Our report supports the theory of hormonal influence on this group of tumors and the possibility of spontaneous involution. 
Conservative management of anal leiomyosarcoma. Leiomyosarcomas of the large intestine are unusual neoplasms, comprising less than 0.1% of all malignancies of the colon and rectum. Six cases of leiomyosarcoma of the anus have been reported. The optimal treatment for this neoplasm is not known. The standard surgical approach is abdominoperineal resection. The authors report the seventh case of this rare neoplasm and outline its treatment using local excision and iridium 192 brachytherapy in an attempt to preserve the anal sphincter. In selected patients, conservative surgery followed by radiation therapy may be an alternative to radical surgery, with the goals of local control of the disease and anal sphincter preservation. However, more experience is needed before this approach could be recommended routinely. 
Primary adenocarcinoma of bladder. Between April 1983 and December 1987, we have treated and followed 16 patients at the University of Southern California for adenocarcinoma of the bladder. In 10 patients, the cancer originated from a nonurachal source; all underwent radical cystectomy, bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection, and urinary diversion. The other 6 patients had an apparent urachal origin of their cancer. Half of these patients were treated with radical cystectomy and urinary diversion and half were treated initially with segmental cystectomy. Presenting characteristics (age, sex ratio, and symptoms) were similar for both groups. Three-year adjusted acturial tumor-free survival rates for the two groups were 48 percent and 31 percent, respectively. We advocate an aggressive approach of radical cystectomy, bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection, and urinary diversion for all invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder, regardless of location. 
Migraine pain associated with middle cerebral artery dilatation: reversal by sumatriptan. The combination of measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and blood velocity in the middle cerebral arteries (MCA) by transcranial doppler sonography was used to investigate cerebrovascular involvement in migraine. Ten migraine patients with unilateral headache were studied during an attack and when they had been free of attacks for 5 days (non-attack). On both occasions they were given as intravenous infusion of sumatriptan (2 mg), a 5-HT1-like receptor agonist, which relieved the symptoms within 30 min without affecting rCBF. The MCA velocity was normal on both sides on the non-attack day and on the unaffected side during the attack. However, during the attack the MCA velocity on the headache side was significantly lower than that on the non-headache side (45 vs 61 cm/s:mean difference 16.3 [95% confidence interval 10.3-22.3]; p = 0.02). The MCA velocity on the headache side returned to normal after treatment with sumatriptan and recovery. Since rCBF in the MCA supply territory was unaffected, the lower velocity can be explained only by dilatation of the MCA. The mean MCA diameter increase was estimated to be 20%. Thus, headache was associated with intracranial large arterial dilatation on the headache side. Sumatriptan predominantly had effects on the distended artery, which suggests that the 5-HT receptor system has a role in the pathogenesis of migraine. 
Treatment with intravenously administered gamma globulin of chronic relapsing colitis induced by Clostridium difficile toxin. We tested the hypothesis that children with chronic relapsing colitis induced by Clostridium difficile toxin have defective antibody responses to C. difficile toxins as a cause of their underlying illness. Six such children were tested for serum IgG and IgA antibody to C. difficile toxin A. These six children had lower IgG anti-toxin A levels than 24 healthy children (p = 0.026) and 18 healthy adults (p = 0.0008). Five patients treated with 400 mg intravenously administered gamma-globulin per kilogram every 3 weeks had significant increases in IgG (p = 0.01) but not IgA anti-toxin A (p = 0.406) levels, and all five had clinical resolution of their gastrointestinal symptoms as well as clearing of C. difficile cytotoxin B from their stools. These observations suggest that a deficiency of IgG anti-toxin A may predispose children to the development of chronic relapsing C. difficile-induced colitis. In such cases, intravenous gamma-globulin therapy may be effective in producing clinical remission. 
Bleeding peptic ulcer after abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. A retrospective study of 112 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and 232 with arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO) demonstrated that 16.7% of those with AAA and 1.6% of those with ASO had a history of gastroduodenal ulcer; 83% of these lesions with AAA were gastric ulcers. Ulcer bleeding after vascular reconstruction developed in seven patients with AAA and one with ASO. Serum fibrinogen levels and platelet counts were significantly lower in patients with AAA than in those with ASO or controls. A prospective study showed that 25 (52.1%) of 48 patients with AAA and six (20.0%) of 30 patients with ASO had endoscopically proved gastroduodenal lesions before vascular reconstruction. None of them developed postoperative bleeding after treatment of both their gastroduodenal lesions and coagulopathy. Furthermore, the significant decrease in blood flow and prostaglandin content of gastric mucosa was demonstrated in patients with AAA. 
Recruitment of new osteoblasts and osteoclasts is the earliest critical event in the pathogenesis of human multiple myeloma. Considering the special relation of human multiple myeloma (MM) to bones, it is of importance to clarify the early steps of bone involvement in this disease. In this work, using bone histomorphometry (including histoenzymologic and kinetic studies for the first time), we have evaluated the bone remodeling (i.e., bone resorption and bone formation rates) of 16 individuals with early MM in comparison with that of 10 with benign monoclonal gammopathy (BMG) and that of 17 patients with previously untreated overt MM. A significantly increased osteoblastic recruitment was observed in the individuals with early MM when compared with those with BMG (P less than 0.01). A significant (P less than 0.01) increased bone resorption (i.e., eroded surfaces, osteoclast numbers and surfaces) was observed from the early stage of MM in comparison with the BMG status where bone resorption remained within the normal range. At the tissue level, there was no difference in terms of bone resorption between early and overt MM. On the other hand, osteoblast activity was significantly reduced in patients with overt MM (P less than 0.05 by comparison with those with early MM). A significant enhancement of osteoblastic recruitment with an increased generation of new osteoclasts is an early critical event in the pathogenesis of human MM. Of particular importance is the early stimulation of osteoblasts, since these cells produce high amounts of IL-6, a potent myeloma cell growth factor and a critical cytokine for the formation of osteoclasts in the bone marrow. 
Focal spared area in fatty liver simulating a mass. Scintigraphic evaluation. The characterization of focally spared areas in a fatty liver may at times be problematic. This report illustrates the unique diagnostic role that combined xenon-133/technetium-99m sulfur colloid scintigraphy can play in such cases. 
Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver: results of treatment and options in management. Twenty two patients (19 females) with focal nodular hyperplasia were seen between 1973 and 1989. Five were children, and all the adults were aged under 42 years (median 33 years). Fourteen patients (64%) were symptomatic on presentation. Twelve of the 14 adult women had taken the oral contraceptive pill. Twelve patients, nine of whom were symptomatic, underwent hepatic resection shortly after presentation. There were no deaths or major complications, and all remain well on follow up. Four patients underwent either hepatic artery embolisation or ligation. After an interval of six to 10 years they were asymptomatic and only one has histological evidence of residual focal nodular hyperplasia. Of five patients initially treated conservatively, two were asymptomatic and have remained so for three and 13 years. One of the three symptomatic patients became symptom free after stopping the contraceptive pill. The management of focal nodular hyperplasia requires a flexible approach. Lesions which are asymptomatic can be observed with regular ultrasound and treated if they enlarge or become symptomatic. Symptomatic patients who present while taking the contraceptive pill can also have a trial of conservative treatment. Other symptomatic patients, including those who previously took the pill, are best treated by surgical resection, and, where this is not possible, by embolisation. 
Postoperative retention of urine: a prospective urodynamic study. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the cause of post-operative retention of urine in elderly men. DESIGN--Prospective study. SETTING--Northern General Hospital, Sheffield. PATIENTS--32 consecutive men (median age 73, range 55-85) referred to the urology department who were unable to pass urine either within 48 hours after operation and required catheterisation (23) or after removal of a catheter inserted at the initial operation (nine). INTERVENTION--Intermittent self catheterisation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Urological investigation by medium fill and voiding cystometry within four weeks after operation, and minimum follow up three months thereafter. RESULTS--6 patients resumed normal voiding before urodynamic assessment, three proceeded straight to prostatectomy, and one was unfit for self catheterisation. Of 22 men who underwent urodynamic investigation, only five had bladder outflow obstruction, who subsequently had successful prostatectomy; 15 showed either a low pressure-low flow system (seven) or complete detrusor failure (eight) and two showed pelvic parasympathetic nerve damage. With intermittent self catheterisation spontaneous voiding returned in all but one man within a median of 8 weeks (range 6-32 weeks). Recovery of bladder function took significantly longer in men with detrusor failure than in those with an underactive bladder (median 10 weeks (range 6-32 weeks) v median 8 weeks (range 6-8 weeks); p = 0.05). Three months later all patients had re-established their own normal voiding pattern with minimal residual urine on ultrasonography and satisfactory flow rates. CONCLUSIONS--Postoperative urinary retention in elderly men is not an indication for prostatectomy; a normal pattern of micturition can be re-established by intermittent self catheterisation in most men. 
Are some antihypertensive therapies more efficacious than others in preventing complications and prolonging life? Antihypertensive therapy has been used for almost 35 years to reduce blood pressure and prevent morbidity and mortality related to the hypertensive state. Malignant, severe, and moderate hypertension have all been shown to be worthy of drug treatment, but controversy remains as to the degree of benefit that is achievable by treating milder hypertension. A variety of clinical trials have demonstrated that antihypertensive therapy reduces the incidence of stroke, congestive heart failure, and left ventricular hypertrophy and the progression in severity of hypertension. The benefits with respect to prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) have been much less impressive. Thiazide diuretics have been the base therapy for the bulk of the hypertensive subjects studied to date who have not demonstrated reduced incidence of CHD. Therapy with beta-blockers has the potential for reducing CHD, but an analysis of four studies finds only two with positive results. On the other hand, since that study found reduced total mortality as well as CHD compared with thiazide diuretic, its findings cannot be ignored. Other questions deserving further investigation include how other antihypertensive therapies compare with respect to the risk reduction found with thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers, the optimal posttreatment blood pressure, whether persons with mild hypertension benefit from therapy, whether women should be treated differently, and whether atherosclerosis may be affected by specific antihypertensive therapies. 
Pheochromocytoma with pyrexia and marked inflammatory signs: a paraneoplastic syndrome with possible relation to interleukin-6 production. Pheochromocytoma can cause several paraneoplastic syndromes. We report a patient with pheochromocytoma who exhibited pyrexia and marked inflammatory signs along with an elevated serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) level. All of these abnormalities disappeared and serum IL-6 became undetectable by removal of the tumor. In addition, immunohistochemical analysis revealed the presence of IL-6 in the tumor cells. It is suggested that pyrexia and the elevation of acute phase proteins can be a paraneoplastic syndrome with pheochromocytoma, and that the elaboration of IL-6 from pheochromocytoma may play an important role in the development of the syndrome. 
Slow toxins, biologic markers, and long-latency neurodegenerative disease in the western Pacific region. The western Pacific parkinsonism-dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis complex is a prototypical neurodegenerative disorder found among inhabitants of Guam, New Guinea (Irian Jaya, Indonesia) and Japan (Kii Peninsula, Honshu). Nonviral environmental factors peculiar to the affected populations seem to play a prominent etiologic role. Although cause-effect relationships cannot be established by epidemiologic studies alone, we have shown in all three affected population groups that individuals develop the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis variant of this disorder after heavy exposure to the raw or incompletely detoxified seed of neurotoxic cycad plants. Since long periods may elapse between cycad exposure and the appearance of neurological disease in humans, cycads may harbor a "slow toxin" that causes the postmitotic neuron to undergo slow irreversible degeneration. Two cycad neurotoxins are recognized, one of which (cycasin) is known to have long-latency effects (tumorigenesis) on mitotic neurons and replicating cells in other tissues. This paper explores the possible relationship between tumorigenesis and long-latency neurotoxicity, and discusses possible biologic markers of cycad exposure and subclinical neurodegenerative disease. 
Detection of the interferon-gamma-induced protein 10 in psoriasiform dermatitis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Interferon-gamma-induced protein 10 is a 10-kd protein produced by human keratinocytes following an exposure to interferon gamma. Keratinocytes within psoriatic plaques and within delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions have been shown to stain strongly with an affinity-purified rabbit antibody prepared against interferon-gamma-induced protein 10, suggesting a possible role for interferon gamma in the production of the lesions. A psoriasiform eruption has been seen in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Its severity appears to correlate with the degree of immunodeficiency in the early stages of AIDS. We stained 10 lesions of psoriasiform dermatitis of AIDS with the anti-interferon-gamma-induced protein 10 antibody using immunoperoxidase techniques. As controls, we studied 10 lesions of non-AIDS psoriasis, six lesions of seborrheic dermatitis with psoriasiform hyperplasia, one lesion of lichen simplex chronicus, and four biopsy specimens of normal skin from patients with AIDS. In addition, normal skin specimens taken from patients with AIDS and human immunodeficiency virus-negative patients at time of autopsy were examined. An identical, strong and diffuse staining pattern was seen in all cases of psoriasiform dermatitis of AIDS, non-AIDS psoriasis, seborrheic dermatitis, and lichen simplex chronicus. The specimens of normal skin showed only weak basal layer staining with anti-interferon-gamma-induced protein 10. Thus, the presence of interferon-gamma-induced protein 10 in keratinocytes was associated with psoriasiform hyperplasia and could be detected in both AIDS-associated and classic psoriasis. 
Acute pancreatitis and systemic lupus erythematosus: necropsy of a case and review of the pancreatic vascular lesions. The role of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in the development of acute pancreatitis is a matter of controversy since, in many cases, this complication has been attributed to the drugs administered. In this study, we present a patient diagnosed as having SLE who developed acute pancreatitis with no apparent cause aside from her basic disease, and in whose necropsy was observed vascular damage consisting of severe intimal proliferation. Pancreatic vascular lesions in previously reported patients with lupus are reviewed. 
Effect of elevated plasma norepinephrine on electrocardiographic changes in subarachnoid hemorrhage. We compared electrocardiographic abnormalities and plasma norepinephrine concentrations in 40 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage within the first 24 hours, at 72 hours, and after 1 week. In 20 patients with high plasma norepinephrine concentrations within the first 24 hours, sinus tachycardia (p less than 0.02) and negative T waves (p less than 0.01) were more frequent than in the 20 patients with normal plasma norepinephrine concentrations. After 72 hours, only sinus tachycardia (p less than 0.03) was found with increased frequency in the 26 patients with high plasma norepinephrine concentrations. Although 24 patients had high plasma norepinephrine concentrations after 1 week, we found no differences in the frequency of electrocardiographic abnormalities compared to patients with normal plasma norepinephrine. However, QTc prolongation, U waves, ST depression, and arrhythmias were found with similar frequency in patients with both high and normal plasma norepinephrine concentrations. We conclude that, with the exception of sinus tachycardia and negative T waves, electrocardiographic changes in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage do not depend on elevated plasma norepinephrine concentrations. 
Diagnostic imaging in cancer care. The role of cost/benefit analysis. As the cost of medical care rises, there is increasing need to analyze the costs and benefits of diagnostic imaging. A review of previous research shows reasonable success at defining costs and the ability to identify safety and risk, but limited data on defining benefits in economic terms. The technology to analyze costs and benefits is improving, and satisfactory research protocols and methods have recently become generally accepted. While research studies to determine costs and benefits or efficacy are themselves costly, time consuming, and difficult to perform in clinical practice, the wise allocation of medical resources in the US requires physicians in all specialties to evaluate the technology when we are responsible for its use. 
Pyridostigmine used as a nerve agent pretreatment under wartime conditions. OBJECTIVE. To determine the adverse effects of pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide for nerve agent exposure during wartime. DESIGN. A retrospective study. SETTING. Southwest Asia. PARTICIPANTS. Personnel who provided medical support to the XVIII Airborne Corps. These medical officers supplied information pertaining to symptoms and disposition of 41,650 soldiers who received pyridostigmine at the onset of hostilities of Operation Desert Storm. INTERVENTION. Pyridostigmine bromide, 30 mg orally, was self-administered every 8 hours while under the threat of nerve agent attack (for 1 to 7 days). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE. Physiologic changes attributable to pyridostigmine that resulted in need for medical attention, discontinuation of the drug, hospitalization, and/or evacuation from Southwest Asia. RESULTS. About half of the population noted physiologic changes that were not incapacitating, such as increased flatus, abdominal cramps, soft stools, and urinary urgency. Approximately 1% of the soldiers believed they had effects that warranted medical attention, but fewer than 0.1% had effects sufficient to discontinue the drug. Nonincapacitating symptoms often occurred; however, military mission performance was not impaired. CONCLUSION. While under the threat of nerve agent attack, pyridostigmine can be administered to virtually all soldiers. 
Success of temporomandibular joint arthroscopy in disk displacement with and without reduction. Forty-three subjects with disk displacement without reduction (DNR) or disk displacement with reduction (DWR) underwent arthroscopic lysis and lavage of the temporomandibular joints. Both groups of subjects were assessed by clinical examination, a questionnaire, and joint imaging, to determine the impact of internal derangement type (DWR vs DNR) on postsurgical outcome. There were no significant differences in postsurgical outcomes between the two groups of meniscal disorders with respect to clinical and questionnaire data. However, the DNR group generally exhibited a smoother, less erratic recovery. After surgery dramatic improvements were in range of motion, pain, and function in both groups, although some level of residual pain and dietary limitation remained in approximately half the subjects. The incidence of joint sounds and deviation were not improved by surgery. Significant differences were found between the two groups with respect to imaging results. Arthroscopy had little effect on the disk positions of DNR subjects: 84% were unchanged after surgery, and the remaining 16% were improved. The disk position of DWR subjects appeared more labile, with 31% unchanged, 38% worsened, and 31% improved. 
Fecal occult blood testing. Guidelines for follow-up after positive findings. Fecal occult blood testing should be performed under optimal conditions to minimize false-positive test results. Obvious bleeding from the rectum or other sources during the test period should be investigated and testing should be postponed. When a fecal occult blood test is positive, colonoscopy is recommended as the definitive method of diagnosis and often of treatment. When a complete colonoscopy cannot be performed, sigmoidoscopy with air-contrast barium enema is the next best alternative for direct visualization of the distal bowel and indirect investigation of the proximal colon. 
Diffuse pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage after bone marrow transplantation: radiographic findings in 39 patients. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage is a life-threatening complication after bone marrow transplantation. We investigated the radiographic abnormalities that occurred in 39 transplantation patients with a diagnosis of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and correlated the findings with the patients' clinical course. The initial radiographic abnormalities after diffuse alveolar hemorrhage developed an average of 11 days after bone marrow transplantation, and the radiographic abnormalities preceded the clinical diagnosis by an average of 3 days. Twenty-seven patients initially had bilateral radiographic abnormalities; 10 initially had unilateral abnormalities (seven in the right lung, three in the left lung). Two patients had normal chest radiographs throughout their clinical course. All 37 patients with radiographic abnormalities had abnormalities involving the central portion of the lung, primarily the middle and lower lung zones. The initial radiographic pattern was interstitial in 27 and alveolar in 10. In 24 patients, radiographic abnormalities were initially judged to be mild; three were severe from the onset. Radiographic abnormalities rapidly worsened in most patients over 6 days. In 30 patients, diffuse bilateral radiographic abnormalities involving all lung zones developed. Eleven patients persisted in having only interstitial radiographic abnormalities; 26 had a confluent alveolar pattern. At the height of radiographic abnormalities, 27 cases were judged to be severe, and only one case was judged to be mild. The mortality rate in patients with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage was 77%. The radiographic abnormalities of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage are nonspecific and usually precede the clinical diagnosis. The clinical course after hemorrhage is short, often resulting in death. 
Dissections of the cervicocerebral arteries. We present four cases of cerebral ischemia secondary to dissections of cervicocerebal arteries. The majority of patients presented with transient ischemic attacks and strokes, although one patient presented with headache and focal seizure. In addition to history and physical examination, the diagnostic evaluation of these patients included computed tomography scan, carotid duplex studies, angiogram, and, in some cases, magnetic resonance imaging studies. Initially, the patients were anticoagulated with heparin and then with warfarin for a period of six to eight weeks. The emergency physician must consider such dissections in younger patients with sudden neurologic deficits and no or few risk factors for cerebrovascular disease. In our experience, these are not rare syndromes; with proper workup, prompt diagnosis, and therapy, the prognosis is usually excellent. 
Midazolam use in the emergency department. Midazolam is a new imidazobenzodiazepine derivative that is two to three times as potent as diazepam, is water-soluble, has a rapid onset and short duration of action, and produces a profound amnestic effect. These properties make it an extremely useful drug for outpatient sedation. We performed retrospective review of midazolam use in a general emergency department over a one-year period. Midazolam was used in 120 patients, 71 men and 49 women, with an average age of 46 years. The average dose given was 3.4 mg, with a range of 1 to 10 mg. In 69 of the cases (57%) other drugs were administered, most commonly an opiate. There were only four adverse reactions. One patient developed urinary retention, one patient vomited, and two patients were somnolent for a prolonged period of time. There were no serious cardiovascular or respiratory problems. We conclude that midazolam is a safe drug to use in the emergency department. Close monitoring of the patient and the availability of airway support equipment are mandatory. 
Export of intracellular HBsAg in chronic hepatitis B virus infection is related to viral replication. Serum and liver HBsAg bear an inverse relation to each other during the evolution of chronic hepatitis B virus infection and the quantity of HBsAg in tissue rises gradually with time. In this study, intracellular and extracellular levels of HBsAg were measured by radioimmunoassay in primary culture of hepatocytes from 30 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection to determine a possible relationship with hepatitis B virus replication. Serum levels of HBsAg correlated with markers of active viral replication (serum hepatitis B virus DNA, p less than 0.005, and tissue HBcAg, p less than 0.02) but inversely with tissue HBsAg (p less than 0.05). In similar fashion, in vitro export of HBsAg was also related to the presence of active viral replication markers (serum hepatitis B virus DNA, p less than 0.02, and tissue HBcAg, p less than 0.05) and negatively with tissue HBsAg (p less than 0.001). Export of HBeAg also correlated positively with markers of active viral replication (serum hepatitis B virus DNA, p less than 0.05 and tissue HBcAg, p less than 0.05). Further experiments indicated that intrahepatic pre-S1 and pre-S2 correlated closely with intrahepatic HBsAg, indicating that a failure to export HBsAg was unlikely to be attributable to deficient intracellular expression of pre-S1 or pre-S2. These data indicate that in vitro primary hepatocyte culture of hepatitis B virus-infected cells provides an accurate reflection of in vivo export of HBsAg and that this is closely related to the presence of active viral replication. 
Beta-receptor sensitivity in autonomic failure. We examined the cardiovascular, plasma norepinephrine (NE), and plasma renin (PRA) responses to isoproterenol infusion in patients with autonomic failure and in normal subjects. Slopes of the blood pressure response/dose relationships were more negative in patients with multiple system atrophy and pure autonomic failure (PAF) than in normal subjects, consistent with impaired baroreflex modulation. A shift to the left in patients with PAF suggests beta-adrenergic receptor supersensitivity. In normal subjects, the increase in plasma NE and PRA was proportional to the log of the plasma isoproterenol level. Isoproterenol infusion did not increase plasma NE or PRA in either patient group despite a reduction in mean blood pressure. Reflexive cardiovascular and renal mechanisms appear to play a role in eliciting the plasma NE and PRA responses to isoproterenol infusion in normal subjects. 
Microalbuminuria in patients with essential hypertension. Effects of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and of a calcium channel blocker. Several patients with essential hypertension manifest an abnormal (greater than 30 mg/24 h) urinary albumin excretion (UAE). Since microalbuminuria is considered an independent predictor of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, studies are currently being undertaken to determine the effect of various antihypertensive agents on UAE, on the assumption that a reduction of UAE might result in improved prognosis in patients with essential hypertension. Twenty-four patients with essential hypertension were randomly divided into two groups of 12. The first group received 20 mg/day enalapril for 8 weeks, followed by 20 to 40 mg/day nitrendipine for 8 more weeks. The second group received nitrendipine for 8 weeks, followed by enalapril. Mean arterial pressure decreased similarly during both therapeutic regimens in the two groups of patients. In patients of group 1, UAE decreased significantly (P less than .01) from 74 +/- 7.0 to 33 +/- 5.8 mg/24 h after 8 weeks of treatment with enalapril; during the following 8 weeks of treatment with nitrendipine, UAE increased to 58 +/- 5.3 mg/24 h (P less than .02). In patients of group 2, UAE did not change during the first 8 weeks of therapy with nitrendipine despite a significant reduction in blood pressure; subsequently, after 8 weeks of therapy with enalapril, UAE decreased from 62 +/- 9.2 to 31 +/- 4.8 mg/24 h (P less than .01). This study demonstrates that enalapril but not nitrendipine may reduce UAE in patients with essential hypertension despite similar antihypertensive efficacy. The significance of microalbuminuria and the impact of the normalization of UAE on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with essential hypertension remains to be determined. 
Interaction of sodium and volume in fluid resuscitation after hemorrhage. Some measures of the efficacy of fluid resuscitation after hemorrhage are blood volume restitution (BVR) and attenuation of the neuroendocrine response. We compared the effectiveness of resuscitation with 0.9% NaCl and 3.0% NaCl in chronically prepared awake dogs after 30% hemorrhage. Each dog was bled on four occasions and resuscitated by four protocols: 1) full resuscitation (infusion to return and maintain mean arterial pressure (MAP) at control +/- 10 mm Hg) with 3.0% NaCl (HS); 2) full resuscitation with 0.9% NaCl (NS); 3) under-resuscitation with a volume of 0.9% NaCl equal to the subject's previous 3.0% NaCl requirement (SV); and 4) no fluid therapy (NR). Approximately three times more volume was needed to restore MAP with NS vs. HS, and thus the amount of Na administered was not different in these groups. Net volume balance was positive in the NS and SV groups but negative in the HS group due to marked saline diuresis. Net Na balance was positive in all three fluid-treated groups, but significantly higher in the HS group (p less than 0.01). MAP remained below baseline in the SV and NR groups (p less than 0.05). BVR exceeded 100% in NS and HS early in resuscitation, but BVR was not sustained in the HS group. Total plasma protein increased in all three fluid treated groups. Responses of all hormones were completely attenuated in the NS group. ACTH, cortisol, and AVP responses were promptly attenuated in the HS group, but remained greater than control. In the SV group, all hormone levels except renin returned to control values, but more slowly than the other groups. ACTH and cortisol correlated best with BVR; AVP, PRA, and aldosterone correlated with MAP restoration. In summary, resuscitation with either HS or NS can achieve similar MAP restoration. Hypertonic saline produces a more rapid increase in BVR and MAP, but the BVR improvement is transient. Resuscitation with HS incurs an intracellular water debt which is aggravated by a saline diuresis. Hormonal attenuation is linked either to BVR (ACTH, cortisol) or to MAP restoration (renin, AVP). Thus the optimal resuscitation regimen may consist of initial infusion of hypertonic saline followed by sufficient hypotonic solution to restore interstitial fluid volume and normal cellular hydration. 
Neurogenic sarcoma of the sinonasal tract. Five cases of a rare malignant sinonasal tumour of neurofibromatous nature are described. The term neurogenic sarcoma (or malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour) is advocated instead of malignant schwannoma. The clinicopathological features of this tumour are described, and the different diagnosis are discussed. The necessity of using immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of sinonasal tumours of fibromatous nature is emphasized. The clinical management consists of radical surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy. Clinically there seems to be a high-grade and a low-grade type of sinonasal neurogenic sarcoma, however, this could not be distinguished histologically in the present series. 
Dowling-Degos disease, hidradenitis suppurativa, and multiple keratoacanthomas. A disorder that may be caused by a single underlying defect in pilosebaceous epithelial proliferation. We report a case in which one patient had Dowling-Degos disease (reticulate pigmented anomaly of the flexures), hidradenitis suppurativa, and multiple keratoacanthomas. Abnormal epithelial proliferation involving mainly the pilosebaceous apparatus has been recognized in all three conditions. We speculate that a single underlying defect in follicular epithelial proliferation, characterized by variable expressivity, accounts for the coexistence of these clinically distinct disorders of follicular derivation. 
Fractures of the penis: therapeutic approach and long-term results. Injury to the external male genitalia is considered, with attention focused on accidental fracture of the corpora cavernosa (by coitus or masturbation). Such injuries are often complicated by urethral lesions. We present 13 patients with either simple or complicated fracture of the penis, all of whom were operated on between 2 h and 8 days following injury, with excellent functional results. The need for immediate surgery is emphasised, in order to avoid erectile failure and curvature, which are typical complications of conservative treatment. Surgery consists of complete evacuation of haematoma, curettage and repair of the albuginea. If the fracture is associated with urethral disruption, the latter is also repaired. 
Acquired perforating dermatosis. Transepidermal elimination of DNA material and possible role of leukocytes in pathogenesis. A patient had acquired perforating dermatosis and suffered from renal disease, diabetes mellitus, and lupus vulgaris. Histologic and immunohistochemical studies revealed that the bulk of the coarse granular basophilic material being extruded by transepidermal elimination was of nuclear origin obviously derived from polymorphonuclear leukocytes that were particularly abundant in an early, nonperforated lesion. At the lower boundary of the material being eliminated transepidermally, leukocytes were seen to accumulate, to undergo pyknosis and karyorrhexis, and to transform into nuclear debris. As a minor component, the material contained collagen fibers with altered staining qualities and, in an early lesion, elastic fibers. We speculate that accumulation, disintegration, and enzyme release from polymorphonuclear leukocytes may represent an important, hitherto disregarded driving force in transepidermal elimination. Lysosomal enzymes may later be responsible for the alteration of staining properties in collagen fibers, the degradation of elastic fibers, and for opening up the transepidermal route by impairing intercellular keratinocyte cohesion. 
Heterogeneity in oxygen diffusion around venous ulcers. The pathogenesis of venous ulceration is thought to involve the formation of fibrin cuffs around dermal capillaries. Consistent with a barrier effect of fibrin, it has been shown that the dermal diffusion of oxygen, as measured by transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2), is decreased in limbs affected by venous ulcer. However, it is unknown whether oxygen diffusion around the perimeter of venous ulcers is uniformly affected. In this study, we investigated TcPO2 values at four different quadrants around the ulcers of 14 patients, the contralateral leg of five patients with unilateral ulcers, and the leg of six normal individuals. These values were also compared to TcPO2 measurements at the chest. Our results indicate that, whereas TcPO2 values in limbs affected by venous ulcers are much lower than normal, there is a great deal of variability in oxygen diffusion around individual ulcers. These findings may represent a heterogeneity in the disease process affecting the leg. 
Association between development of lower lip cancer and tobacco habits. Tobacco use is considered to increase the risk of tumor induction. The purpose of this case-controlled investigation was to assess the association of tobacco habits and development of squamous cell carcinoma of the lower lip. Sixty-one patients treated for lower lip cancer, aged between 42 and 90 years, were studied. Age- and sex-matched healthy controls showed a similar exposure to tobacco in years and a comparable distribution of tobacco habits. Although the mean exposure factor (duration times exposure) was greater in the tumor group, no intimate correlation between lip cancer and tobacco was demonstrated. However, an increased, although small, occurrence of herpes labialis lesions was found in cancer patients. The hypothesis is presented that smokers experiencing recurrent herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) infections are more liable to tumor initiation, which issue will be subjected to a future study. 
A critical review of the evidence supporting a relationship between impaired fibrinolytic activity and venous thromboembolism. We critically evaluated the evidence for an association between venous thromboembolism and impaired fibrinolytic activity, as determined by global tests of fibrinolytic activity or specific tests for tissue plasminogen activator and plasminogen activator inhibitor. A computer-assisted and manual search was performed to retrieve all articles that reported on fibrinolytic activity and venous thromboembolism. The strength of the evidence for an association was assessed by analysis of the design of individual studies with special attention directed to choice of controls and methods of diagnosis of venous thromboembolism. It is concluded that for patients with symptomatic thrombosis the published evidence does not prove an association between impaired fibrinolytic activity and increased risk of thrombosis. In contrast, for postoperative thrombosis there is good evidence for an association between impaired fibrinolytic activity measured either preoperatively or postoperatively and increased risk of postoperative thrombosis. Whether this association is causal or coincidental is unclear, since randomized clinical trials that used interventions to enhance fibrinolytic activity produced inconsistent results. 
Comparison of computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging for the postoperative assessment of residual acoustic tumor. Ten patients with surgically confirmed residual cerebellopontine angle neuromas, imaged by both computerized tomography (CT) with iodine contrast and magnetic resonance (MR) with and without gadolinium enhancement, are reviewed to identify the strengths and limitations of MR as compared with CT imaging. MR imaging offers superior anatomic resolution in multiple imaging planes without ionizing radiation, but it is expensive and has adverse effects on some patients. CT imaging offers good anatomic resolution, but in only one or two planes. CT is both less expensive and generally well tolerated, but allergy to the iodine contrast is not uncommon. The cases presented demonstrate the adequacy of CT imaging of residual tumor. However, in some cases MR imaging provided important additional detail. MR imaging also demonstrated postoperative changes within the brain stem and cerebellum. In our experience, CT imaging remains a satisfactory, unambiguous approach to the assessment of known postoperative residual cerebellopontine angle neuromas. MR imaging provides superior resolution, however, and should be used when better definition of tumor detail is needed for management decisions or when multiple follow-up scans are anticipated, so that the exposure to ionizing radiation is limited. MR is also useful to investigate postoperative neurologic dysfunction. Postoperative changes and residual tumors are more difficult to interpret on MR than on CT. Guidelines are proposed to help distinguish residual tumor from postoperative changes and scarring. 
Elevation of serum interleukin-6 concentration precedes acute-phase response and reflects severity in acute pancreatitis. Experimental studies have shown that interleukin-6 induces all major acute-phase proteins in the liver, including C-reactive protein. In 50 patients with acute pancreatitis, the serum concentrations of interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein were determined daily during the first week of hospitalization. Patients were divided into three groups according to clinical criteria: mild pancreatitis (less than or equal to 1 complication; n = 25), severe pancreatitis (greater than or equal to 2 complications; n = 15), and lethal outcome (n = 10). Patients with mild disease showed initially slightly elevated levels of interleukin-6 (22.0 +/- 9.8 U/mL) that decreased to low levels within 4 days (5.0 +/- 1.0 U/mL). In patients with severe pancreatitis, serum concentrations of interleukin-6 were initially clearly elevated (35.0 +/- 7.5 U/mL) and remained slightly elevated until day 7 (13.0 +/- 2.0 U/mL). Patients with lethal outcome had markedly elevated initial interleukin-6 concentrations (61.0 +/- 15.0 U/mL) that decreased but were still elevated at day 7 (26.0 +/- 2.5 U/mL). In all three groups, C-reactive protein concentrations followed the course of interleukin-6 concentrations by 1 day. There was a positive correlation between maximal interleukin 6 concentrations and maximal increases in the serum concentrations of C-reactive protein (r = 0.66). At days 1 and 2, increased (greater than 15 U/mL) interleukin-6 concentrations (positive predictive value, 91%; negative predictive value, 82%) predicted a severe or lethal course of the disease more accurately than elevated [greater than 0.10 g/L (greater than 10 mg/dL)] C-reactive protein concentrations (positive predictive value, 67%; negative predictive value, 79%). In conclusion, elevated serum concentrations of interleukin-6 followed by increased levels of C-reactive protein reflect the severity of acute pancreatitis. 
The high risk of death by alcohol related diseases in subjects diagnosed as diabetic and impaired glucose tolerant: the Paris Prospective Study after 15 years of follow-up. The 15 year mortality rates and causes of death are reported for the Paris Prospective Study cohort of 7180 working men, aged between 44 and 55 years who attended the first follow-up examination. All subjects were classified as normoglycaemic, impaired glucose tolerant or diabetic according to the WHO criteria, following an oral glucose tolerance test. The relative risks of death in comparison to the normoglycaemic group were 1.6 for impaired glucose tolerant and 2.3 for diabetic subjects; for death due to coronary heart disease: 1.7 and 2.3 respectively; for death due to alcohol and cirrhosis: 7.0 and 13.3 respectively. It appears that in this cohort a proportion of subjects screened as diabetic have impaired liver function and disturbed carbohydrate metabolism, due to excessive alcohol consumption. Alcohol should be investigated as a possible risk factor for diabetes, particularly in epidemiological studies where diabetes is diagnosed by the oral glucose tolerance test and the population has a high consumption of alcohol. 
Prevalence of liver disease in cystic fibrosis. To assess the prevalence, demography, and clinical features of liver disease among patients with cystic fibrosis the case notes of 524 patients of all ages who were attending the cystic fibrosis clinic were studied. Computer databases were used to establish the condition of the liver in a further 576 such patients. The overall prevalence of overt liver disease indicated by the presence of an enlarged liver or spleen (or both) was 4.2%. The age related prevalence rose to a peak in adolescence, and then fell in patients over 20 years old. The implied increase in mortality among those with liver disease was not explained by deaths from liver disease, which were rare. Male patients were significantly more affected than female, the ratio being 3:1 among adolescents. Increasing prevalence of liver disease in patients with cystic fibrosis is, therefore, not just a result of longevity. 
Flow cytometric analysis of nuclear DNA content in advanced gastric cancer and its relationship with prognosis. Cell nuclear DNA content was determined by flow cytometric analysis in 270 patients with deeply infiltrating (beyond the submucosa) cancer, so-called advanced gastric cancer. Aneuploidy was observed in 150 cases (55.6%). Multivariate analysis showed that the DNA ploidy pattern was the third significant prognostic factor behind peritoneal dissemination and liver metastasis. The 5-year survival rate of diploid patients (62.9%) was significantly higher than that of aneuploid patients (22.7%) (P less than 0.01). This trend was most clear in patients with Stage III and IV tumors. Among aneuploid cases the high DNA index group indicated a worse prognosis than the low DNA index group. It was thus assumed that the DNA ploidy pattern was a useful prognostic indicator of advanced gastric cancer. 
Endometrial carcinoma in the cancer family syndrome. The study group consisted of 26 women with endometrial adenocarcinoma belonging to 19 cancer families. Age at the onset of cancer, the stage and histologic differentiation of the tumor, initial symptoms, other malignancies, 5-year survival, and transmission of cancer to descendants were studied. The focus was on the importance of endometrial carcinoma in the tumor spectrum. The diagnosis of cancer family was delayed in 14 of the 19 families because endometrial carcinoma was not included in the primary diagnostic carcinoma. This delay may have been harmful to 16 family members who had carcinomas later in life. In ten of the 14 women with multiple malignancies, endometrial adenocarcinoma was the primary malignancy diagnosed, thus enabling the suspicion of a gene carrier and screening for subsequent malignancies. The authors concluded that endometrial carcinoma is a significant component of cancer family syndrome and should be included in the main criteria of Lynch syndrome II. 
Simultaneous occurrence of cutaneous T cell lymphoma and low-grade B cell lymphoproliferative diseases. A report of two cases. Two previously unreported patients with cutaneous T cell lymphoma associated with systemic low-grade B cell proliferations are presented. The first patient had Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia and the second had simultaneous chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The use of immunosuppressive drugs or a genetic predisposition may have contributed to the second malignancy. However, the possibility that malignant helper/inducer T lymphocytes were a factor in the promotion of the proliferation of B cells cannot be excluded. 
Placental examination in a clinical setting. Placental examination has been proved to be of clinical value in cases selected because of gestational complications, unusual disorders of mother or infant, perinatal death, problems in perinatal diagnosis, and multiple pregnancy. Ten percent to 15% of births meet these criteria for selection. Causes of perinatal death, such as placental abruption, cord accidents, placental infarction, infection, and hematologic disorders, have been demonstrated. Clinically occult abnormalities, including chronic infections, maternal vascular disease, neoplasms, and storage diseases, have been recognized. Amniotic lesions and single umbilical artery have directed attention to fetal malformations. Monozygosity has been documented by monochorionic placentation. As a diagnostic source, the placenta has contributed to clinical care, understanding of disabilities among surviving children, and insight of forensic value. Limitations of placental studies stem from their qualitative nature and from gaps in current knowledge of gestational pathophysiology. 
Monomelic amyotrophy in siblings. Monomelic amyotrophy is a rare, benign motor neuron disorder. Electrophysiologic studies are suggestive of localized chronic anterior horn cell disease. Two young siblings are reported with monomelic amyotrophy who had proximal muscle weakness confined to one arm. We propose that monomelic amyotrophy, at least in this family, is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. 
Right- and left-arm blood pressure discrepancies in vascular surgery patients. To identify a relationship between atherosclerotic vascular disease and differences in blood pressure between the right and left arms, blood pressure differences between arms were measured in patients with peripheral vascular disease (PVD, n = 58), in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD, n = 38), and in patients with no evidence of atherosclerotic disease, who served as a control group (n = 38). The incidence and magnitude of right and left arm pressure difference determined by the oscillometric technique were compared between the patient groups. The incidence of systolic pressure difference greater than or equal to 20 mmHg between arms in patients with PVD (21%) was greater than that in either those with CAD (3%) (P less than or equal to 0.05) or control subjects (0%) (P less than 0.01). The incidence of systolic pressure difference greater than or equal to 45 mmHg between arms in patients with PVD (10%) was greater than that in either those with CAD (0%) (P less than 0.05) or control subjects (0%) (P less than 0.05). Patients with PVD also had a greater incidence of right and left arm difference than did those with CAD or controls for mean and diastolic blood pressures. Of all patients with a systolic difference greater than 10 mmHg, neither the right nor the left arm blood pressure was consistently higher: 21 of 35 (60%) had a higher pressure in the right arm, and 14 of 35 (40%) had a higher pressure in the left arm (P = 0.33). Gender, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, and age were not associated with a difference in blood pressure between the right and left arms. 
The origin of symptoms on the brain-gut axis in functional dyspepsia. It was hypothesized that symptoms in functional dyspepsia are originated by an altered mechanism at the brain-gut axis (one or several) in the process of gastric accommodation to a meal. To test the key mechanisms potentially involved in symptomatic gastric accommodation, the sensorial responses (on a 0-10 perception score) and the gastric tone responses (by electronic barostat) to either gastric accommodation (n = 10) or to cold stress (n = 10) were measured in 20 patients with functional dyspepsia and 20 healthy controls. The mechanical accommodation of the stomach to gastric distention (compliance) was similar in patients (52 +/- 8 mL/mm Hg) and controls (57 +/- 6 mL/mm Hg). However, isobaric gastric distention elicited more upper abdominal discomfort in dyspeptics than in controls (perception scores, 4.7 +/- 0.9 vs. 1.1 +/- 0.5, respectively; mean +/- SE; P less than 0.005). Cold stress induced a similar gastric relaxatory response in dyspeptics and controls (delta vol, 145 mL +/- 40 mL vs. 141 mL +/- 42 mL, respectively); hand perception (scores, 8.3 +/- 0.4 vs. 7.9 +/- 0.4, respectively) and autonomic responses were also similar. It is concluded that an abnormal afferent sensorial pathway (altered gastric perception) may be a major mechanism of symptom production in functional dyspepsia. 
Pretranslational regulation of albumin synthesis in tumor-bearing mice. The role of anorexia and undernutrition. Hepatic albumin synthesis, serum albumin turnover, and hepatic albumin messenger RNA (mRNA) content were evaluated in mice bearing a transplantable low differentiated tumor (MCG 101). Results obtained on tumor-bearing mice were compared with results obtained from non-tumor-bearing animals that were either freely fed, food restricted so that their body composition was similar to tumor-bearing animals (pair-weighed), fed a protein-free diet for 5 days, or fasted for 48 hours. Tumor-bearing animals became hypoalbuminemic (33 +/- 5 vs. 44 +/- 3 g/L in freely fed mice), which could be explained by both depressed albumin synthesis (1.95% +/- 0.20% vs. 2.67% +/- 0.27%/h in freely fed mice) and increased albumin degradation. Pair-weighed and protein-calorie malnourished controls had reductions in albumin synthesis (1.81% +/- 0.18% and 1.67% +/- 0.17%/h, respectively) similar to tumor-bearing animals, and the starved controls had the lowest synthetic rates (1.07% +/- 0.10%/h). Albumin degradation was increased only in tumor-bearing animals. Hepatic albumin mRNA in undernourished animals was less (tumor bearing, 32% +/- 5%; pair weighed, 47% +/- 4%; 48 hours fasted, 18% +/- 2%; and protein-calorie malnourished, 26% +/- 3%) than 50% of the mRNA content in the livers of freely fed control mice. Messenger RNA-directed synthesis of albumin in vitro was also depressed to a variable degree in tumor-bearing and malnourished non-tumor-bearing controls. The hypoalbuminemia in tumor-bearing animals could not be prevented by daily injections of a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor (indomethacin, 1 microgram/g body wt), but the hepatic acute phase protein serum amyloid P decreased from 157 +/- 12 to 103 +/- 9 micrograms/mL in indomethacin-treated tumor-bearing mice (P less than 0.01). It is concluded that increased albumin degradation seen in tumor-bearing animals cannot be explained by associated malnutrition, whereas tumor-associated malnutrition can explain to a large extent the depressed albumin synthesis. Decreased albumin synthesis in tumor-bearing animals correlated in part with a decreased quantity of liver albumin mRNA. The results of the current study are consistent with either a reduced transcription of the albumin gene or a change in albumin mRNA processing and stability communicated by anorexia and malnutrition. 
Misdiagnosed papillary renal adenocarcinoma. We present 3 patients with papillary renal adenocarcinoma who were initially misdiagnosed owing to unusual clinical presentation. We suggest that if these presentations are borne in mind, pre-operative detection of this uncommon condition should be possible more often than is now the case. 
In vivo footprinting of MHC class II genes: bare promoters in the bare lymphocyte syndrome. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes are coordinately regulated and show tissue-specific expression. With the use of in vivo footprinting, common promoter sites in these genes were found to be occupied only in cells that expressed the genes, in spite of the presence of the promoter binding proteins. In vivo analysis of mutant cell lines that exhibited coordinate loss of class II MHC expression, including several from individuals with bare lymphocyte syndrome, revealed two in vivo phenotypes. One suggests a defect in gene activation, whereas the other suggests a defect in promoter accessibility. 
Neurenteric cyst located dorsal to the cervical spine: case report. A patient with a neurenteric cyst located dorsal to the cervical spine and associated with occult cervical spinal dysraphism is described. The embryological theories that might explain the occurrence of such a lesion are discussed. 
Prevention of irradiation-induced bowel discomfort by sucralfate: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study when treating localized pelvic cancer. Sucralfate, an aluminum hydroxide complex of sulfated sucrose used in the treatment of gastric ulcer, was shown to prevent irradiation-induced diarrhea and bowel discomfort significantly in patients treated for pelvic cancer with external radiotherapy with intent to cure. The double-blind placebo-controlled study included 70 patients with carcinoma of the prostate and urinary bladder without distant metastasis (T1-4NO1xMO) and performance status of greater than or equal to 90% Karnofsky scale. Radiotherapy was administered in a conventional manner with MeV photons and a four-field technique. The total dose was 62-66 Gy and total treatment time of 6.5 weeks. Dose granules of sucralfate or placebo were dispensed to each patient 2 weeks after radiation started and continued for 6 weeks. All analyses were performed blindly. Seven of 34 evaluable patients in the placebo group and 18 of 32 evaluable patients in the sucralfate group did not present with diarrhea during the observation period. The frequency of defecation and stool consistency were significantly improved by sucralfate. Fourteen patients in the placebo group and only three in the sucralfate group required symptomatic therapy with loperamide. There was no evidence of adverse effects associated with the use of sucralfate. Sucralfate can be of beneficial value in diminishing the bowel discomfort during radiotherapy of pelvic malignancies, and the earlier proposed mechanisms of action (e.g., protection of denuded mucosa, cytoprotective properties, binding bile acids) can also be valid for the current effects of sucralfate. 
Phosphate diabetes associated with bone metastases of oat cell lung cancer. Although the link between phosphate diabetes and neoplasm or benign mesenchymal tumors has been well documented, the nature of the phosphaturia factor remains unknown. We describe two cases of phosphate diabetes associated with bronchogenic cancer. In these case reports, we suggest that fibroblasts or osteoblasts synthesize a phosphate eliminating substance. 
A mutant alpha subunit of Gi2 induces neoplastic transformation of Rat-1 cells. In a recently discovered class of oncogenes, GTPase-inhibiting mutations constitutively activate alpha subunits of signal-transducing guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins). Somatic mutations in a subclass of endocrine tumors are found in the arginine-179 codon of the alpha subunit of Gi2 (alpha i2), creating the putative gip2 oncogene. We have tested the ability of gip2 to mediate neoplastic transformation of Rat-1 and NIH 3T3 fibroblasts in tissue culture. Expression of a mutant alpha i2 cDNA encoding cysteine in place of arginine-179 (alpha i2-R179C) caused Rat-1 cells to grow to a higher density in monolayer culture, to lose anchorage dependence, and to form tumors when injected subcutaneously into nude mice. In contrast, expression of alpha i2-R179C failed to alter growth or tumorigenicity of NIH 3T3 cells. We conclude that gip2 is an oncogene, by the criterion that it induces neoplastic transformation of Rat-1 cells. Failure of gip2 to transform NIH 3T3 cells is in keeping with clinical indications that gip2 is a tissue-selective oncogene. 
Colorectal cancer: cross-sectional imaging for staging of primary tumor and detection of local recurrence. This review describes the use of cross-sectional imaging in the staging of colorectal carcinoma and detection of local recurrence. The contributions of CT, MR imaging, and sonography are discussed and illustrated. Colorectal carcinoma is the second most common tumor in the United States and the most common cancer in the gastrointestinal tract. The prognosis for patients with this neoplasm is closely related to the extent of tumor at the time of diagnosis. Accurate noninvasive preoperative assessment of tumor stage by one or a combination of radiologic techniques would enable appropriate treatment to be planned in each case. Also, determination of possible tumor recurrence would permit effective monitoring of success of therapy and surgical intervention for recurrent disease before widespread metastasis occurs. 
Stage IB squamous cell cancer of the cervix: clinicopathologic features related to survival. Three hundred forty-five patients with stage IB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix were treated at the University of Michigan Medical Center from 1970 through 1985. The overall cumulative 5-year survival was 89%. The clinical characteristics included mean age 44.6 years, nulliparity 10%, married 93%, obese 38%, hypertension 32%, diabetes mellitus 5%, smoking 54%, symptoms of bleeding 68%, positive cytologic smear 83%. Lymph nodes were diseased in 45 of 261 (17%) with 26 unilateral (10%) and 19 bilateral (7%). Tumor differentiation showed: grade 1, 112 (33%); grade 2, 144 (42%); grade 3, 86 (25%). Factors that did not influence survival included age, presence or absence of positive cervical cytologic smear, the interval from previous papanicolaou smear, hypertension, smoking history, patient's blood type, and transfusion at radical hysterectomy. In all patients survival was significantly influenced by the following features: tumor classified as well differentiated (95%) or poorly differentiated (82%); tumor size less than 3 cm (91%) or greater than 3 cm (76%); negative lymph nodes (93%) or positive lymph nodes (61%). When three or fewer lymph nodes were involved, the survival was 79% compared with 33% when four or more lymph nodes were involved. In 213 patients undergoing radical hysterectomy the cumulative 5-year survival was significantly influenced by the amount of residual cervical disease: no residual disease, 100%; less than 50% penetration, 96%; greater than 50% penetration, 83%. Involvement of the lower uterine segment reduced survival to 73% compared with 95% when the lower segment was uninvolved. One hundred seventeen patients without angiolymphatic invasion had a 97% cumulative 5-year survival whereas 70 patients without disease in the lymph nodes but with angiolymphatic invasion had an 88% cumulative 5-year survival rate. A Cox model, multiple proportional hazard analysis was performed for all patients, and the factors that influenced survival included tumor grade, tumor size, presence of metastatic disease in the lymph nodes, and diabetes mellitus. In patients undergoing radiation therapy, the tumor grade and size were significant factors in survival. In patients undergoing radical hysterectomy, survival was influenced by the depth of cervical penetration and lower uterine segment involvement whereas the tumor grade, tumor size, patient's age, and removal of ovaries were not significant. 
Adjuvant effect of human growth hormone with an inactivated flavivirus vaccine. Vaccines made by inactivating pathogenic microorganisms have been dramatically successful in controlling diseases in humans and animals. Despite their successes, they have a major disadvantage in that several inoculations are required for them to be effective. To overcome this problem, a commercial inactivated vaccine preparation against tickborne encephalitis was combined with human growth hormone (HGH). This formulation produced complete protection in a murine model with only one dose of vaccine, apparently by binding hormone and antigen to an insoluble matrix containing aluminium hydroxide. Thus it is postulated that when virus-specific lymphocytes are attracted to the site of injection, the hormone is at a high local concentration and stimulates the clonal expansion of antigen-specific T cells. The development of genetically engineered HGH now gives unlimited supplies of hormone, potentially resulting in an increase in efficacy of a wide variety of vaccines, especially those needing prolonged immunization schedules such as those being developed to combat human immunodeficiency virus infection. 
Segregation analysis reveals evidence of a major gene for Alzheimer disease. In an attempt to resolve the relative influences of major genes, multifactorial heritability, and cohort effects on the susceptibility to Alzheimer disease (AD), complex segregation analysis was performed on 232 nuclear families. All families were consecutively ascertained through a single proband who was referred for diagnostic evaluation of a memory disorder. The results suggest that susceptibility to AD is determined, in part, by a major autosomal dominant allele with an additional multifactorial component. Single-locus, polygenic, sporadic, and no-transmission models, as well as recessive inheritance of the major effect, were significantly rejected. Excess transmission from the heterozygote was marginally significant and probably reflects the presence of phenocopies or perhaps the existence of two or more major loci for AD. The frequency of the AD susceptibility allele was estimated to be .038, but the major locus accounts for only 24% of the transmission variance, indicating a substantial role for other genetic and nongenetic mechanisms in the causation of AD. 
The clinical management of cirrhosis. The discipline of hepatology is being rapidly advanced by several methods of investigation, most notably those of molecular and genetic biology. The polymerase chain reaction holds very great promise in unraveling the implications of hepatic virus infections. At the present time, we have no method of reversing established cirrhosis, and those with life threatening impairment of liver function can only look to liver transplants for salvage. The clinician can therefore best serve by identifying liver disease before cirrhosis and its complications occur. With effective case finding, and the continued development of therapeutic interventions directed toward known or suspected etiologic and pathogenic factors, many productive, high-quality years can be added to the lifespans of many patients. 
Subretinal neovascularization in systemic lupus erythematosus. Choroidal involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) occurs infrequently. We describe a patient with unusual manifestations of lupus oculopathy: prominent choroidal vasculopathy associated with multiple chorioretinal scars and subretinal neovascularization in the macular area. Choroidal disease was the primary feature of ocular involvement. SLE should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with inflammatory choroidal lesions. 
Rationale for development of low-molecular-weight heparins and their clinical potential in the prevention of postoperative venous thrombosis. Interest in low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) as potential antithrombotic agents was stimulated by two observations in the mid-1970s and early 1980s. The first was finding that LMWH fractions prepared from unfractionated heparin (UFH) progressively lost their ability to prolong the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) while retaining their ability to inhibit Factor Xa. The second was the observation that LMWHs prepared by chemical depolarization of UFH are antithrombotic in experimental animal models but produce less microvascular bleeding in experimental models for an equivalent antithrombotic effect than the UFH from which they are derived. Subsequently, it was shown that LMWHs inhibit platelet function and impair vascular permeability less than standard heparin and that LMWHs have a longer biological half-life than standard heparin. A number of LMWHs have been evaluated in clinical trials in general and orthopedic surgery and in the treatment of venous thrombosis. LMWHs are highly effective in orthopedic surgery, where they appear to be more effective than standard heparin. LMWHs have also been shown to be either as effective or more effective than UFH in preventing postoperative thrombosis following general surgery. In preliminary studies, LMWHs appear to be as effective as standard heparin in the treatment of venous thrombosis, but larger studies are required using clinically relevant outcome measures. 
Acute lung injury induced by phospholipase A2. Structural and functional changes. On the basis of the observation that serum levels of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) are elevated in pancreatitis and systemic sepsis, and the association of these conditions with the subsequent development of acute lung injury, the present investigation examined the structural and physiologic consequences of intratracheal administration of PLA2 to adult male rats. Rats received direct intratracheal instillation of either control vehicle or 40,000 units/kg of PLA2 repurified from Naja naja venom. Animals treated with PLA2 showed higher cumulative mortality (33% versus 0%, n = 79; p less than 0.01) than did their control littermates. The PLA2-treated animals showed histologic evidence of acute lung injury characterized by interstitial and alveolar edema, accumulation of inflammatory cells, and alveolar wall thickening, which reached maximal severity 48 h after enzyme instillation. Forty-eight hours after PLA2 administration experimental animals had lower arterial oxygen tensions (73.9 +/- 7.66 mm Hg versus 96.7 +/- 2.52 mm Hg, mean +/- SEM; p less than 0.01), higher alveolar-arterial oxygen gradients (35.3 +/- 6.3 mm Hg versus 18.8 +/- 1.42 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), and higher wet-dry lung weight ratios (5.08 +/- 0.26, mean +/- SEM, n = 7 versus 3.29 +/- 0.08, n = 3; p less than 0.002) than did control animals. Lung lavage from experimental animals 48 h after PLA2 instillation showed increased total cell counts [(26.6 +/- 5.04) x 10(6) cells versus (4.69 +/- 1.48) x 10(6) cells; p less than 0.01], an increased percentage of neutrophils (34.2 +/- 4.6% versus 1.25 +/- 0.25%, mean +/- SEM; p less than 0.01), and increased protein concentrations in lavage fluid (0.38 +/- 0.06 mg/ml, mean +/- SEM, n = 4 versus 0.27 +/- 0.02 mg/ml, n = 5; p less than 0.05). The histologic and physiologic abnormalities had largely resolved by 240 h. These results suggest that PLA2 may be a potent mediator of lung inflammation and that intratracheal administration of PLA2 to adult rats may provide a useful experimental model of acute lung injury. 
Word deafness and auditory cortical function. A case history and hypothesis. A patient who already had Wernicke's aphasia due to a left temporal lobe lesion suffered a severe deterioration specifically of auditory language comprehension, subsequent to right temporal lobe infarction. A detailed comparison of his new condition with his language status before the second stroke revealed that the newly acquired deficit was limited to tasks related to auditory input. Further investigations demonstrated a speech perceptual disorder, which we analysed as due to deficits both at the level of general auditory processes and at the level of phonetic analysis. We discuss some arguments related to hemisphere specialization of phonetic processing and to the disconnection explanation of word deafness that support the hypothesis of word deafness being generally caused by mixed deficits. 
Outcome of patients with acute myocardial infarction who are ineligible for thrombolytic therapy. OBJECTIVE: To determine what proportion of patients with acute myocardial infarction are not eligible for thrombolytic therapy and to assess their natural history. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review. SETTING: A large community-based hospital. PATIENTS: All patients with acute myocardial infarction hospitalized during a 27-month period. MEASUREMENTS: Of 1471 patients with acute myocardial infarction, 230 (16%) received thrombolytic therapy according to the protocol and an additional 97 (7%) received nonprotocol thrombolytic therapy, primary coronary balloon angioplasty, or both because of contraindications. The other 1144 patients (78%) did not receive reperfusion therapy. MAIN RESULTS: The patients who did not receive thrombolytic therapy were older, more likely to be women, and more likely to have a history of hypertension, previous myocardial infarction, or chronic angina (all comparisons, P less than 0.002). An average of 1.9 reasons for exclusion were identified per patient among the ineligible patients. Mortality was fivefold higher among ineligible patients (19%; Cl, 16% to 21%) than among protocol-treated patients (4%; Cl, 1% to 6%) (P less than 0.001). In-hospital mortality rates for excluded patients were 28% (Cl, 23% to 32%) in elderly patients (age, greater than 76 years; n = 396); 29% (Cl, 23% to 35%) in patients with stroke or bleeding risk (n = 209); 17% (Cl, 14% to 20%) in patients with delayed presentation (greater than 4 hours after the onset of chest pain; [n = 599]); 14% (Cl, 11% to 16%) in patients with an ineligible electrocardiogram (ECG) (n = 673); and 26% (Cl, 21% to 32%) in patients with a miscellaneous reason for exclusion (n = 243). Independent predictors of increased mortality were: age greater than 76 years, stroke or other bleeding risk, ineligible ECG, or the presence of two or more exclusion criteria. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombolytic therapy is currently used in the United States for only a minority of patients with acute myocardial infarction: those who have low-risk prognostic characteristics. 
Prevalence and incidence of Becker muscular dystrophy. We measured the prevalence and incidence of Becker muscular dystrophy in the Northern Health Region of England, UK. Patients were identified from the records of the Regional Neurological Centre and Muscular Dystrophy Group laboratories, Newcastle upon Tyne, and by writing to local doctors. We used cDNA probes and/or dystrophin immunolabelling of muscle-biopsy samples to prove the diagnosis of all cases. Results were compared with the known prevalence and incidence of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 73 patients alive and resident in the Northern Health Region were identified, giving a prevalence rate of 2.38/100,000. This compares with a prevalence of Duchenne muscular dystrophy of 2.48/100,000. The cumulative birth incidence of Becker muscular dystrophy (at least 1 in 18 450 male live births) was about one third that of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (1 in 5618 male live births), suggesting that the disorder is more common than previously thought. 
Open lung biopsy does not correlate with pulmonary function after the adult respiratory distress syndrome. Abnormalities of pulmonary function occur following the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). To determine if open lung biopsy (OLB) during ARDS predicts late pulmonary function abnormalities, we examined nine survivors of ARDS who had OLB during ARDS. Open lung biopsy was performed within two weeks of the diagnosis of ARDS, and the following were scored by a pulmonary pathologist as to extent and severity: hyaline membranes (HM), interstitial fibrosis (IF), air space organization (AO), interstitial cellularity (IC), and type 2 cell proliferation (T2C). Pulmonary function tests performed at least one year after ARDS were also used for analysis. Percent predicted Dco, TLC, DL/VA, and FVC were regressed against extent, severity, and combined scores. No significant correlation was found despite impressive histologic abnormalities. These data suggest that the severity and extent of HM, IF, AO, T2C, or IC do not correlate with lung function following ARDS. 
Effects of different angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors on ischemic isolated rat hearts: relationship between cardiac ACE inhibition and cardioprotection. We determined the relationship between cardiac angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and anti-ischemic efficacy of several structurally different ACE inhibitors or their prodrug esters perfused through the isolated rat heart. Seven ACE inhibitors inhibited cardiac ACE to varying degrees due to differences in uptake during perfusion through nonischemic rat hearts. Zofenopril-sulfhydryl and fosinoprilic acid were the most effective of the free inhibitors. Among the prodrugs, zofenopril and S-benzoylcaptopril, hydrolyzed rapidly by cardiac esterase, were more effective than their component ACE-inhibitors, whereas fosinopril, ramipril and enalapril were poorly active. For studies in ischemic rat hearts, vehicle or drug treatment was initiated 10 min before a 25-min period of global ischemia and during a 30-min reperfusion period. Of five unesterified ACE inhibitors studied for anti-ischemic activity, only captopril and zofenopril-sulfhydryl were found to improve postischemic contractile function and reduce cell death in the isolated rat hearts. Fosinoprilic acid, ramiprilat and enalaprilat were not cardioprotective at high perfusion concentrations, despite the fact that nearly complete inhibition of cardiac ACE was achieved with all of the compounds studied. The S-benzoyl prodrugs of zofenopril-sulfhydryl and captopril were at least as potent as their component ACE inhibitors in reducing ischemic-reperfusion damage in the same model. Neither zofenopril nor captopril, however, had any effect on coronary flow before or after ischemia. Thus, it appears that the cardioprotective effects of zofenopril and captopril are independent of cardiac ACE inhibition or, at least, that ACE inhibition alone is not sufficient. Both captopril and zofenopril are sulfhydryl-containing compounds whereas the inactive compounds are not; and, thus, this group appears to be important in mediating their cardioprotective actions. 
Endosonographic TNM staging of extrahepatic bile duct cancer: comparison with pathological staging. Endosonography was performed preoperatively in 33 patients with common bile duct carcinoma and in 43 patients with carcinoma of the common hepatic duct and its bifurcation. The results were correlated with the histology of resected specimens according to the new (1987) TNM (tumor, node, metastasis) classification. Endosonography was accurate in the evaluation of the depth of tumor infiltration. Overall accuracy for common bile duct carcinoma and common hepatic duct carcinoma was 82.8% and 85%, respectively. Endosonography was helpful in diagnosing regional lymph node metastases but not accurate in diagnosing nonmetastatic lymph nodes. With common bile duct carcinoma, the incidence of lymph node metastasis increased with progressive depth of tumor infiltration. No such correlation was found in common hepatic duct carcinomas. In the staging of distant metastasis, this technique was limited by the low-penetration depth of ultrasonography. Thus, additional transcutaneous ultrasonography or computed tomography was necessary for complete staging. The routine use of the biopsy channel for endosonographically guided aspiration puncture will further enhance the diagnostic value of endosonography in the future. 
Does metoclopramide reduce the length of ileus after colorectal surgery? A prospective randomized trial. Between August 1988 and September 1989, 100 consecutive patients who underwent elective abdominal colorectal surgical procedures were prospectively randomized to receive or not to receive metoclopramide. Metoclopramide was intravenously administered every 8 hours from the completion of surgery until a solid food diet was able to be tolerated. Seven patients were not included in the final tabulations because of one death, one small bowel obstruction requiring laparotomy, one anastomotic leak requiring laparotomy, and four protocol violations. Ninety-three patients, 37 men and 56 women (mean age, 59.5; range, 14-89 years) underwent 40 segmental colectomies, 13 total abdominal colectomies, 8 abdominoperineal resections, 8 ileoanal pouch procedures, 7 small bowel resections, and 17 other colorectal procedures. The 40 patients who received postoperative metoclopramide were in Group 1, and the 53 who did not were in Group 2. The mean length of time between laparotomy and commencement of oral fluid and oral solid intake in Groups 1 and 2 were 3.5 and 4.8 days, and 3.5 and 5.0 days, respectively. These differences were not statistically significant (P greater than 0.05). Prolonged ileus was seen in seven patients in Group 1 and in eight patients in Group 2. These differences were also not statistically significant (P greater than 0.05). Prolonged ileus was defined as the need for nasogastric tube reinsertion or discontinuation of oral intake. We conclude that metoclopramide does not significantly alter the course of postoperative ileus. 
Cerebral infarction in young people. A study of 148 patients with early cerebral angiography. The aetiology of strokes was studied in a hospital based series of patients aged up to 40 years with precise clinical and radiological criteria. One hundred and forty five patients (75 males and 73 females) aged five to 40 years with cerebral ischaemia were evaluated. Aetiology was heterogeneous and could be classified into seven groups. Cerebral arteriograms were performed in all cases and indicated the aetiological diagnosis in most patients. Embolism was the most frequent recognised abnormality (38.4%). There were no complications of arteriography. Arterial dissections discovered by arteriography were the cause of the stroke in 10.1% of the patients. Atherosclerosis was diagnosed in 32 cases and was the commonest cause (21.6%). In one fifth of cases no cause was found. Contraceptive drugs were considered as potential cause of ischaemic stroke in 11.5%, cardiac diseases in 12.8% and haematological disorders in 8.1%. Other potential causes included migraine, inflammatory diseases, pregnancy and lacunas. Follow up in 126 cases showed that many patients had good functional recovery. 
Bleeding complications to oral anticoagulant therapy: multivariate analysis of 1010 treatment years in 551 outpatients. One thousand and ten patient years of oral anticoagulant therapy with vitamin-K-antagonists were reviewed with regard to major bleeding complications. The incidence of bleeding that necessitated hospital admission was 2.7% per year (95% confidence limits, 1.7-3.7%). The major source of bleeding was the alimentary tract, whereas no cases of intracranial bleeding were found. Various factors with potential effects on the bleeding risk were evaluated by multivariate statistical analysis, and the following independent risk factors were identified: age greater than 75 years and hypertension increased the bleeding risk by 10.5% and 4.5%, respectively. Each recorded prothrombin value significantly below the therapeutic range increased the bleeding risk by 3.9%, and each year of treatment increased the risk by 2.0%. These figures may be used to estimate the risk of major bleeding in an individual patient. Current treatment with thiazide diuretics was found to increase the bleeding risk by 5.2%. However, this observation requires further documentation and analysis. Although no lethal episodes of bleeding occurred, the developing field of indications for oral anticoagulant therapy should be considered on the basis of a continuous substantial risk of major bleeding. 
Malakoplakia of the temporal bone in a nine-month-old infant. A case of malakoplakia, of the temporal bone in a nine-month-old male child is reported. The lesion presented as an aural polyp, associated with a lower motor neuron facial palsy. On exploration, the granuloma was noted to involve the temporal bone, eroding the bony labyrinth. It was successfully treated with surgical debridement, and antibiotics. A review of the relevant literature is presented. 
British Columbia sends patients to Seattle for coronary artery surgery. Bypassing the queue in Canada. Concern about waiting lists for elective procedures has become a highly visible challenge to the universal health insurance program in Canada. In response to lengthening queues for patients waiting for cardiac surgery, British Columbia made contracts with four Seattle hospitals to send a total of 200 patients for coronary artery bypass surgery. This article examines the cause of the queue for cardiac surgery in British Columbia and the events that led to outside contracting. Global hospital budgets and restrictions on capital expansion have limited hospital capacity for cardiac surgery. This constrained supply, combined with periodic shortages in critical care nurses and cardiac perfusion technologists, has resulted in a rapid increase in the waiting list. Reducing wide variations in the lengths of queues for individual surgeons may afford an opportunity to reduce long waits. While the patient queue for cardiac surgery has sparked a public debate about budget limits and health care needs, its clinical impact remains uncertain. 
Double-blind, cross-over study comparing prostaglandin E1 and papaverine in patients with vasculogenic impotence. Intracorporeal injection of vasoactive agents is the treatment of choice for many patients with organic impotence. However, some patients with vasculogenic impotence respond poorly to injections of papaverine or papaverine/phentolamine. This study was conducted to determine if patients with vasculogenic impotence who failed to respond to papaverine might respond to prostaglandin E1 and thus be salvaged from possible prosthetic surgery. A total of 54 patients with vasculogenic impotence were administered intracorporeal prostaglandin E1 (20 micrograms) and intracorporeal papaverine (60 mg) randomized in a double-blind fashion and crossed over one week later. Forty-six percent of patients receiving prostaglandin E1 produced a satisfactory erection compared with 14 percent of patients with a similar response to papaverine. The difference between these results was highly significantly by the McNemar test. The number of side effects were similar for both drugs. Prostaglandin E1 might be considered the intracorporeal agent of choice for patients with significant vasculogenic impotence. 
Hidradenoma papilliferum of the upper eyelid arising from the apocrine gland of Moll. Hidradenoma papilliferum is derived from apocrine sweat glands and was originally described as a tumor located in the anogenital area. The authors recently examined a 78-year-old man with a hidradenoma papilliferum at the margin of the upper eyelid. While the tumor was located in the dermis, serial sections showed a connection to the epidermis and neoplastic cells partially replacing a gland of Moll. There were glandular structures with luminal cells that showed apical decapitation-type secretion, indicating the apocrine origin of the tumor. The luminal cells also contained granules that stained with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain and were diastase resistant. Results of examination of the duct-forming cells by transmission electron microscopy showed adluminal villi, focal decapitation secretion, luminal cytoplasmic debris, and electron-dense cytoplasmic secretory granules. Because the apocrine glands of Moll are localized adjacent to the eyelid cilia, hidradenoma papilliferum and other tumors of apocrine origin should be considered in the clinical setting of a mass at the eyelid margin. 
Reflex anal dilatation: effect of parting the buttocks on anal function in normal subjects and patients with anorectal and spinal disease. Anal dilatation in response to gentle parting of the buttocks has been advocated as a sign of sexual abuse in children, but nothing is known of the physiology of this response or its existence in normal subjects, in patients with spinal disease, and in patients with a weak sphincter and whether it can be elicited after training. To answer these questions we investigated the effect of parting the buttocks on anal function. Combined anal manometry and electromyography was conducted in six normal subjects (five men, one woman, aged 19-53 years), in 18 patients with faecal incontinence (three men, 15 women, aged 30-80 years), and in seven paraplegic patients (six men, one woman, aged 25-36 years), in four of whom the posterior sacral roots had been cut. Parting the buttocks in normal subjects reduced the pressure in the anal canal from 102 (20) to 14 (3) cm H2O (mean (SEM), p less than 0.00001), but did not cause the anus to gape. This drop in pressure was associated with increased electrical activity in the external anal sphincter. Normal subjects could consciously relax the external anal sphincter and reduce the anal pressure but not so as to result in anal gaping during traction on the buttocks, even after anal dilatation. Stimulation of the anal lining by moving a probe in and out of the anal canal increased the activity of the external anal sphincter, raising anal pressures. Paraplegic patients who had lost conscious control of their external sphincters showed anal gaping when the buttocks were parted. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver causing biliary obstruction. Treatment by biliary stenting with 5-year follow-up. Inflammatory pseudotumors of the liver are rare lesions that are becoming increasingly recognized, possibly because of frequent use of abdominal computed tomography (CT) and ultrasonography. Most previously reported cases have been treated by hepatic resection. For this reason, we describe a patient with obstructive jaundice secondary to an inflammatory hepatic pseudotumor in the porta hepatis. Bilateral internal biliary stents were inserted, and the patient remains well 5 years later. The clinicopathologic features of inflammatory pseudotumors of the liver are described, as are the implications of accurate diagnosis. There have been no previous reports of biliary stenting in management of inflammatory hepatic pseudotumors. 
'Low sodium' diuresis and ileal loss in patients with ileostomies: effect of desmopressin. Patients with ileostomies show an early diuresis when sodium restricted; this, together with an obligatory ileal sodium loss, predisposes them to severe salt and water depletion. The role of arginine vasopressin in this circumstance and whether it is natriuretic, or antinatriuretic, is unclear. There is also controversy over its likely effect on small bowel fluid reabsorption. We have examined the effect of the non-pressor (V2) synthetic vasopressin analogue 1-deamino-8-D-arginine (desmopressin) on renal and ileal sodium and water excretion in ileostomy patients during acute adaptation to a low sodium diet. Patients were studied on two separate occasions (nonrandomised) with and without the administration of desmopressin (0.75 micrograms intramuscular, three times a day). In eight subjects without desmopressin there was pronounced diuresis on the first low sodium day, associated with a fall in renal sodium excretion and no change in ileal output or composition. In five (of the original) subjects with desmopressin there was pronounced antidiuresis, no change in renal sodium excretion, and no change in ileal output or composition. In both studies rises in plasma renin activity and salivary aldosterone concentration lagged behind the early decline in renal sodium excretion. We have confirmed the phenomenon of 'low sodium' diuresis after sodium restriction in ileostomy patients and shown that it can be prevented by desmopressin. Desmopressin has no direct or indirect effect on renal sodium excretion or ileal fluid and electrolyte loss in humans. 
Otolaryngologic manifestations of gastroesophageal reflux. The exact incidence of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is unknown, although it is estimated that at least 25% of patients with GER have head and neck symptoms alone. These symptoms may consist of one or more of the following: excess salivation, hoarseness, "post-nasal drip," voice change, persistent coughing, food sticking in the throat, globus hystericus, otalgia, throat clearing, neck pain, sore throats, the sensation of a lump in the throat, choking spells, and bronchospasm. Carcinoma of the larynx and upper aerodigestive tract may be a consequence of chronic reflux. GER, especially when the classic symptoms of reflux are absent, is frequently overlooked as a cause of these problems. This article reviews the symptoms and pathophysiology of these conditions. The diagnostic and therapeutic modalities available to us in managing these patients are also discussed. 
Diagnostic accuracy of temporomandibular joint lower-compartment arthroscopy using an ultrathin arthroscope: a postmortem study. Arthroscopy was performed on the lower temporomandibular (TMJ) joint compartment of 30 fresh cadavers using a newly developed ultrathin arthroscope. Comparison of arthroscopic and dissection findings showed a diagnostic accuracy of 57%. There were both false-positive and false-negative arthroscopic diagnosis. The majority of the false diagnosis occurred in the lateral part of the joint. Iatrogenic damage to the disc occurred in one joint. The study suggests that arthroscopy of the lower joint space of the TMJ can be done with a diagnostic accuracy similar to what has been described for the upper joint space. There appears to be no major risks of iatrogenic damage to the joint structures using an ultrathin arthroscope. 
Treatment of peptic ulcer disease with sucralfate: a review. Sucralfate has been used widely for the treatment of peptic ulcer. Healing rates for duodenal ulcer range from 60 to 90% at 4-6 weeks and up to 90% at 12 weeks for gastric ulcer. The small number of maintenance trials suggest that relapse of duodenal ulcer is reduced comparably to H2 receptor antagonists. There has been considerable interest in the possibility of lower relapse ratios after initial healing with sucralfate compared with H2 receptor antagonists, but more studies of the possible mechanisms as well as larger trials are still needed to confirm these observations. 
Bowel obstruction: evaluation with CT Eighty-four computed tomographic (CT) scans from patients referred for bowel obstruction between January 2, 1988, and December 31, 1989, were retrospectively evaluated. A pair of radiologists without knowledge of patient histories determined the presence or absence of bowel obstruction. Sixty-four patients ultimately proved to have intestinal obstruction, and 20 did not. Diagnosis was established by means of surgery (n = 39), barium studies (n = 17), and clinical course (n = 28). Causes of obstruction included adhesions (n = 37), metastases (n = 6), primary tumor (n = 7), Crohn disease (n = 4), hernia (n = 3), hematoma (n = 2), colonic diverticulitis (n = 2), and other (n = 3). In addition, 83 CT examinations in patients with no history or indication of intestinal obstruction were simultaneously reviewed. The overall sensitivity was 94%, specificity was 96%, and accuracy was 95%. The cause of obstruction was correctly predicted in 47 of 64 cases (73%). Intestinal obstruction was not diagnosed in any of the 83 control patients. CT is most useful in patients with a history of abdominal malignancy and in patients who have not been operated on and who have signs of infection, bowel infarction, or a palpable abdominal mass. 
Prevalence of HIV antibody in a noninner-city university hospital emergency department. STUDY HYPOTHESIS: To determine the prevalence of antibody to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in trauma and nontrauma patients not identified as having known HIV infection in a noninner-city university teaching hospital emergency department, and to determine the frequency with which treating emergency physicians are knowledgeable of patients' risk factors for HIV infection. POPULATION: ED patients between 18 and 59 years old with injuries that met trauma center triage criteria or with nontrauma-related illness who had blood drawn for physician-requested laboratory tests and for whom an extra aliquot of blood was available for HIV antibody testing. METHODS: All serum samples were first tested for antibody to HIV by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. If positive, the specimen was retested. All repeatedly reactive specimens were analyzed by Western blot test. The treating physician completed a questionnaire regarding the patient's illness and risk factors for HIV infection after the patient's care was completed. RESULTS: Two of 100 major trauma patients (confidence interval, 0% to 5%) and seven of 100 nontrauma patients (confidence interval, 2% to 12%) had antibody to HIV. The seropositive rate by age and clinical group varied from 0% to 12.5%, with the highest rates in the 30- to 39-year-old group of nontrauma patients. The difference in proportions of seropositivity between the sexes was not statistically significant. Physicians obtained information regarding homosexual or bisexual behavior, IV drug use, and hemophilia from 52% of the nontrauma patients and only 17% of trauma patients. None of 30 trauma patients for whom data were available and only two of the 100 nontrauma patients gave a history of any high-risk behavior. CONCLUSION: Although the sampling technique we used has limitations, the prevalence of HIV infection in our noninner-city ED is similar to that recently reported from inner-city EDs. This is in contrast to previous reports of low rates of HIV infection among ED patients in nonurban settings. Physician assessment of risk factors was incomplete in the majority of our patients. Patients rarely acknowledged any high-risk behavior. It is essential that emergency health care workers take maximum diligence to prevent exposure to blood and other body fluids from all ED patients. 
Immune dysfunction in mice with plasmacytomas. I. Evidence that transforming growth factor-beta contributes to the altered expression of activation receptors on host B lymphocytes. Plasmacytoma-bearing mice (PC-mice) develop a polyclonal B cell immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by marked impairment of: a) primary antibody responses and b) proliferative responses to B cell mitogens. The present investigations used two-color flow cytometry to examine B lymphocytes from the spleens and lymph nodes of PC-mice and found decreased surface membrane expression of surface IgM (sIgM), transferrin receptors (TfR) and IgE FcR (CD23), increased expression of class II MHC, but normal expression of B220, Mel-14, Fc gamma RII, and Fc mu R. These changes were not related to the H chain class or the amount of Ig produced by the plasmacytoma. When cultured with IL-4, B lymphocytes from PC-mice increased their expression of sIgM and class II MHC, but not of CD23. Several findings implicate transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) in the mechanism that modulates receptor expression on B lymphocytes in PC-mice: a) ascites fluid from PC-mice contains large quantities of TGF-beta 1; b) supernatants of cultured spleen cells from PC mice contain up to eightfold more TGF-beta than is found with normal spleen cells; c) cloned plasmacytoma cells produce TGF-beta in vitro; and d) the abnormal phenotype of B cells from PC-mice, i.e., decreased CD23, sIgM, and TfR, and increased class II MHC, is induced on normal B cells cultured in the presence of TGF-beta 1. Because sIgM, TfR, class II MHC, and CD23 are molecules that play fundamental roles in the activation of normal B cells, their modulation by TGF-beta 1: a) identifies molecular mechanisms that could account for some of the known immunosuppressive properties of TGF-beta 1 and b) implicates TGF-beta in the pathogenesis of the polyclonal B cell immunodeficiency that is characteristic of plasma cell tumors. 
Endoscopic removal of inflammatory fibroid polyps of the stomach. Three cases of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyp removed by endoscopic polypectomy are reported. All lesions were located in the gastric antrum or prepyloric region, and their depth was restricted to the submucosa. The correct diagnosis was obtained, and the digestive symptoms disappeared after polypectomy. In contrast to observations in previous reports, we believe these lesions are suitable for removal by endoscopic means, provided they are small in size and strictly submucosal in location. 
Peptic ulcer disease in children. Primary duodenal ulcer disease occurs in children of all ages, but is most often seen in those over 10 years. As in the adult, it often pursues a chronic course. Primary gastric ulcer is seen in children under 6 years, is more unusual, and does not tend to recur. Stress ulcers are seen most often in infants and in critically ill children and are asymptomatic until the complications of hemorrhage or perforation appear. Drug-related ulcers are being seen more frequently as the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents increases. With the use of new therapeutic agents, management has been simplified and surgical intervention has become a rarity. Helicobacter pylori is now a recognized cause of antral gastritis and ulceration in the child. 
Formation of noninfectious HIV-1 virus particles lacking a full-length envelope protein. Deletions were constructed within a functional human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) proviral clone in order to assess the role of the envelope protein in virus particle formation. A graded exonuclease deletion technique was used to produce 12 clones with deletions of 175-308 nucleotides in the first conserved domain of envelope. This included 9 clones with frameshift deletions and 3 clones with in-frame deletions. Isogenic pairs of env deletion clones were produced with or without an additional deletion in the vif and vpr genes. Upon transfection, all clones produced virus particles, as determined by p24 antigen, reverse transcriptase, and sucrose gradient assays with conditioned media. Virus particles produced from clones with deletions in env or vif and vpr, or both regions, banded on sucrose gradients with a mobility similar to that of virus produced by the parental clone. The p24 gag capsid protein in the particles was resistant to trypsin, but the particles were disrupted by treatment with Triton X-100, suggesting the presence of a surrounding lipid bilayer. Furthermore, electron microscopic studies revealed both mature and immature virus particles derived from COS cells transfected with the env deletion clones. Cocultivation experiments with lymphoid cells and cells transfected with each of the env deletion clones demonstrated that the virus particles were noninfectious. 
Ribose facilitates thallium-201 redistribution in patients with coronary artery disease To investigate whether i.v. infusion of ribose, an adenine nucleotide precursor, postischemia facilitates thallium-201 (201Tl) redistribution and improves identification of ischemic myocardium in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), 17 patients underwent two exercise 201Tl stress tests, performed 1-2 wk apart. After immediate postexercise planar imaging, patients received either i.v. ribose (3.3 mg/kg/min x 30 min) or saline as a control. Additional imaging was performed 1 and 4 hr postexercise. Reversible defects were identified by count-profile analysis. Significantly more (nearly twice as many) reversible 201Tl defects were identified on the post-ribose images compared to the post-saline (control) images at both 1 and 4 hr postexercise (p less than 0.001). Quantitative analyses of the coronary arteriogram was available in 13 patients and confirmed that the additional reversible defects were in myocardial regions supplied by stenosed arteries. We conclude that ribose appears to facilitate 201Tl redistribution in patients with CAD and enhances identification of ischemic myocardium. 
Gastric emptying and interdigestive antroduodenal motility in patients with esophageal scleroderma. The study was carried out on two groups of patients with esophageal scleroderma (LES pressure less than 5 mm Hg and amplitude of smooth muscle pressure waves less than 10 mm Hg): one group included patients with mild (group M) and the other severe (group S) gastroesophageal reflux (GER) diagnosed by ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring. Nine normal subjects were used as controls. Antroduodenal motility was recorded by means of manometry for 200-300 min after an overnight fast and the gastric emptying (T1/2) of a semisolid meal was measured utilizing a scintigraphic method. Patients of group S showed a significantly lower incidence of migrating motor complex activity fronts, as well as a more delayed gastric emptying, compared with those of group M. The reason that patients with the same degree of esophageal motor impairment have different degrees of GER may lie in the fact that the concomitant impairment of gastrointestinal interdigestive cyclic clearing activity and the delay in gastric emptying may allow a larger quantity of material to remain stagnant in the gastric lumen, readily available for gastroesophageal reflux. 
Impaired diastolic function and coronary reserve in genetic hypertension. Role of interstitial fibrosis and medial thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in rats with genetic hypertension is accompanied by abnormal myocardial diastolic stiffness and impaired coronary reserve. Whether these functional defects are related to a structural remodeling of the myocardium that includes an interstitial and perivascular fibrosis, myocyte hypertrophy, and medial thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries is uncertain. To address these issues, 14-week-old male spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension and LVH were treated with low-dose (SLO group: 2.5 mg/kg/day, n = 11) or high-dose (SHI group: 20 mg/kg/day, n = 9) oral lisinopril for 12 weeks to sustain hypertension and LVH or to normalize arterial pressure and myocardial mass, respectively. When SHI and SLO groups were compared with age- and sex-matched 26-week-old untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats (n = 11) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (n = 9), we found 1) normalization of blood pressure (p less than 0.005) and complete regression of LVH (p less than 0.005) in the SHI group and no significant blood pressure or LVH reduction in the SLO group, 2) complete regression of morphometrically determined myocardial interstitial and perivascular fibrosis in SHI and SLO groups (p less than 0.025) associated with normalization of diastolic stiffness, measured in the isolated heart (p less than 0.025), and 3) regression of medial wall thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries only in the SHI group (P less than 0.005), accompanied by a normalization of coronary vasodilator reserve to adenosine (p less than 0.005). Thus, interstitial fibrosis and not LVH is responsible for abnormal myocardial diastolic stiffness, whereas medical wall thickening of intramyocardial resistance vessels, influenced by arterial pressure, is associated with impaired coronary reserve. 
Time course of the blood pressure response to oral isradipine in uncomplicated mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. Forty-five patients with supine diastolic blood pressures (DBPs) above 95 mm Hg at the end of a four-week placebo run-in period were randomized to receive either 1.25 mg, 2.5 mg, or 5 mg isradipine twice daily as monotherapy for 12 weeks. Blood pressures (BP) were measured every 14 days, always by the same observer and using standard techniques. The Montevideo Mathematical Model was used to determine the time course of the response to treatment in each dosage group. Of the 33 patients who completed the study, four of the 12 patients receiving 1.25 mg isradipine twice daily had their BP controlled by weeks 10 or 12 (supine DBP less than or equal to 90 mm Hg), seven of 11 by 2.5 mg twice daily, and five of 10 by 5 mg twice daily. Mean DBPs for each dosage group were significantly reduced by week 12 (P less than .015 in all groups). The Montevideo Model allows estimation of the time after onset of treatment by which BP is reduced by a given amount. This model indicated that, with 2.5 mg isradipine twice daily, a fall in mean arterial pressure of 10 mm Hg is to be expected within three weeks of initiating drug administration. 
Clinical studies of sucralfate in reflux esophagitis. The European experience. Reflux esophagitis is encountered quite frequently in clinical practice. Symptoms can be mild, moderate, or severe and complications can occur, particularly if the disorder is untreated or undertreated. Treatment is aimed at relieving symptoms, healing lesions, and preventing complications. Various pharmacologic options are available for treatment, including antacids, alginate/antacid compounds, acid-reducing agents, prokinetic drugs, and agents that protect the mucosa. This article reviews a number of clinical studies evaluating sucralfate in the treatment of reflux esophagitis. Almost all of the investigations were conducted in Europe and encompassed open-label studies, placebo-controlled trials, and comparative studies. From the studies discussed, it can be concluded that sucralfate not only has a place in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease, but is also effective in treating reflux esophagitis. Sucralfate is comparable to H2-receptor antagonists in symptom improvement and healing rates. In addition, the studies reviewed have shown sucralfate to be safe and well tolerated. 
Accumulation of glycoprotein in the Golgi apparatus of hepatocytes in alcoholic liver injuries. To clarify the role of the hepatocytic Golgi apparatus in the accumulation of proteins in the hepatocytes of alcoholic liver disease, changes in the Golgi apparatus in human and experimental alcoholic liver injuries were analyzed. Immunoelectron microscopically, transferrin, one of the secretory glycoproteins from the liver, was retained in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus of the hepatocytes in both human and rat alcoholic liver injuries. Biochemically, transferrin content in the Golgi fraction was clearly high in the rats with alcoholic liver injury. Desialo-glycoproteins were found in the serum of rats with alcoholic liver injuries. These results suggested that the glycosylation and secretion of hepatic glycoproteins in the Golgi apparatus were impaired in alcoholic liver injury. These abnormalities in the Golgi apparatus function may be important for the development of alcoholic liver injury. 
An autopsy study of the peritoneal cavity from patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Sixteen autopsies were performed on patients aged 56 +/- 15 (SD) years who were on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) for 834 +/- 766 (SD) days. Lactate-buffered dialysate and povidone-iodine antiseptic were used in all cases. Multiple peritoneal sections were taken to evaluate peritoneal membrane thickening, inflammation, neovascularization, fibrosis, and adhesions. Peritoneal thickening, inflammation, or adhesions were not related to sex, race, or etiology of renal failure. Time on dialysis was also not a direct determinant of peritoneal adhesions or neovascularization. Peritonitis episodes correlated with chronic peritoneal serosal changes. This study supports the hypothesis that peritoneal alterations in patients on CAPD are related to episodes of peritonitis. 
The prognostic significance of postoperative residual tumor in ependymoma. Between 1970 and 1989, 29 patients with intracranial ependymomas were evaluated and treated at the Children's Hospital in Boston. With a median follow-up of 82 months, the actuarial survival rates at 5 and 10 years were 61 +/- 10% and 46 +/- 12%, respectively. Anaplastic histological findings were uncommon (2 of 29). Initial postoperative radiotherapy was given to 25 patients, with a median tumor dose of 5360 cGy. With a median time to recurrence of 22 months, local failure (within 2 cm of original enhancing mass) was the predominant pattern of relapse (15 of 16 failures). The presence of radiographic residual disease seen on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomographic scans was the most important prognostic variable for patients with intracranial ependymoma. Analysis of the 19 patients who underwent postoperative imaging revealed a 75 +/- 15% 5-year freedom from progressive disease for 9 patients with no residual disease, as compared with 0% freedom from progressive disease for the 10 patients with gross residual disease (P = 0.03). In contrast, the surgical assessment of residual disease was not significant (P = 0.4). Age at presentation was also a significant prognostic factor. The overall actuarial survival rate at 12 years for infants 24 months or younger at diagnosis was 0%, as compared with 62 +/- 13% for older patients (P = 0.03). For non-anaplastic ependymomas, complete surgical resection followed by local-field, high-dose (greater than 54 Gy) radiotherapy appears to offer the greatest chance for long-term survival. Because of the markedly reduced survival rate for patients with radiologically apparent postoperative disease, maximal surgical resection and novel therapeutic endeavors appear warranted for this high-risk group. Future protocols should use postoperative imaging, not operative reports, to stratify patients with ependymoma. 
The course of peptic ulcer disease. Peptic ulcer disease usually has periodic exacerbations and remissions. Pain can disappear without total healing of the ulcer crater and can be absent when an ulcer is present. Changes in the incidence of ulcer disease have been noted in recent years. Genetic predisposition, infection with H. pylori, and the use of anti-inflammatory drugs are involved in causation. Stress; the use of alcohol, tobacco and caffeine; and other diseases have been implicated as etiologic factors. Ulcer pain has a recognizable pattern, but the symptoms can be variable, particularly in older people and in patients taking ulcerogenic medications. The familiar complications of hemorrhage, perforation, and obstruction still occur, and nonulcer dyspepsia has not been fully explained. Duodenal ulcers have a disturbing tendency to return; new therapeutic approaches offer hope. 
Comparative study of glass and antimony electrodes for continuous oesophageal pH monitoring. Oesophageal pH monitoring data are influenced by numerous patient or technique related factors, or both. In this study, data recorded with glass microelectrodes or antimony electrodes, both with external cutaneous Ag/AgCl reference electrodes, connected to two different recording devices are compared. Pearson correlation coefficients regarding the reflux index (% of the investigation time with a pH less than 4) ranged from poor to excellent (0.55 to 1.00). Differences in data recorded with glass electrodes are not significantly dependent on the recording device (r:0.93 to 1.00 for the reflux index). The correlation between data simultaneously recorded with antimony electrodes is lower, although not significantly different for the reflux index (0.90). Correlation between data recorded with glass and antimony probes is rather poor (0.55 to 0.70). Therefore data recorded with antimony electrodes cannot be compared with those recorded with glass electrodes. The mean pH recorded with glass electrodes is lower than that with antimony probes. 
Combined treatment of symptomatic gallbladder stones by extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE). Twenty-four patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones (12 radiolucent and 12 calcified) were treated by a combined approach of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and subsequent instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE). The patients received a mean of 1500 +/- 185 shock-wave discharges. The mean instillation time of MTBE was 13 +/- 4.2 hr. Treatment was tolerated without major adverse effects. Within a time period of three to five days eight of 12 patients with pure radiolucent stones and four of 12 with calcified stones became stone-free. After a median follow-up of five months (range: one week to 26 months), a total of 11 patients (92%) with radiolucent stones and of eight patients (66%) of those with calcified stones were free of stones, fragments, or debris. These clearance rates appear high when compared with reports on monotherapy with ESWL or MTBE, suggesting a positive effect of a combined approach in selected patients. Two patients exhibited recurrent stones after six and seven months, respectively. 
Cytopathologic diagnosis of benign lesions simulating choroidal melanomas. In three cases of benign pigmented lesions (one melanocytoma and two pigment epithelial adenomas) there was evidence of tumor growth and the lesions were referred to us as uveal melanomas. The fine needle aspiration biopsy specimens were correctly interpreted in the operating room as being benign tumors. The pigment granules in these benign pigmented lesions are much larger than are observed in uveal melanomas. When they were visible through the heavy pigmentation, the cellular detail appeared benign. In two cases the tumors were successfully resected with cyclochroidectomy techniques and the visual outcome was good. The third eye was studied after it had been removed at another institution. Fine needle aspiration biopsy can often differentiate a benign-simulating pigmented lesion from uveal melanoma. 
Insights into the mechanisms of defective antigen presentation after hemorrhage. Although hemorrhage depresses macrophage antigen presentation (AP), a critical component in eliciting an antigen-specific immune response, it is not known which particular step in macrophage AP (i.e., uptake, ingestion, catabolism, or presentation of degraded antigens to T cells) is defective. To study this, C3H/HeN mice were bled to an arterial mean blood pressure of 35 mm Hg, maintained for 60 minutes, and then adequately resuscitated. Peritoneal and splenic macrophage cultures were prepared 2 and 24 hours after hemorrhage. Macrophage AP capacity was measured by coculturing macrophages with the T-helper cell clone D10.G4.1. To gain information about macrophage ability to digest the specific antigen conalbumin, lysosomal activity was bypassed by use of chemically denatured conalbumin peptides. To study macrophage ability to present conalbumin peptides, macrophages were fixed and D10.G4.1 proliferation in response to fragmented conalbumin was determined. AP of native conalbumin by peritoneal macrophages and splenic macrophages was depressed (p less than 0.05) by 50% (peritoneal macrophages) and 55% (splenic macrophages) 2 hours and 57% (peritoneal macrophages) and 35% (splenic macrophages) 24 hours after hemorrhage. In contrast, presentation of conalbumin peptides was only slightly decreased. In addition, the ability of fixed peritoneal macrophages and splenic macrophages to present conalbumin peptides was similar in hemorrhaged and sham mice. Because bypassing of macrophage lysosomal activity with degraded native antigens prevented the suppression of AP, the results suggest that hemorrhage-induced suppression of AP is not caused by a reduced macrophage capacity to present antigenic peptides but by decreased antigen catabolism by macrophages. 
An improved palpebral spring for the management of paralytic lagophthalmos. Facial nerve paralysis with orbicularis muscle palsy can result in serious corneal complications, such as exposure, ulceration, and perforation. Eyelid springs have been used for patients with orbicularis muscle palsy to provide corneal protection while maintaining vision by restoring some kinetic eyelid function. The authors report on 24 patients with facial nerve paralysis who underwent implantation of an eyelid spring over a period of 8 years. The most common cause of orbicularis muscle paralysis was acoustic neuroma, followed by squamous cell carcinoma. Eighty-three percent of the cases successfully regained and maintained their eyelid function during the follow-up period, averaging 3.0 years. We have modified the spring to allow permanent attachment to the orbital rim by wiring. This modification of the surgical technique has minimized the most common postoperative complication: loosening of the spring from its periosteal attachment with subsequent loss of function and extrusion. In addition, transcutaneous adjustments of the spring now can be made without an incision using clasp-adjusting dental pliers. In selected patients, the placement of an eyelid spring prevents the corneal complications associated with paralytic lagophthalmos while maintaining visual function. 
Adenosine use during pregnancy. Adenosine is a naturally occurring endogenous nucleoside that suppresses atrioventricular nodal conduction time, terminates supraventricular tachycardia, and restores sinus rhythm. Its use has been reported in children and adults but not in pregnant patients. This case documents the successful termination of a supraventricular tachycardia in a 39-week pregnant hypotensive patient. Emergency physicians may wish to consider adenosine use in pregnant patients needing emergency therapy or when conventional therapy fails. 
Cloning of the gene for a human dopamine D4 receptor with high affinity for the antipsychotic clozapine. Dopamine receptors belong to the family of G protein-coupled receptors. On the basis of the homology between these receptors, three different dopamine receptors (D1, D2, D3) have been cloned. Dopamine receptors are primary targets for drugs used in the treatment of psychomotor disorders such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. In the management of socially withdrawn and treatment-resistant schizophrenics, clozapine is one of the most favoured antipsychotics because it does not cause tardive dyskinesia. Clozapine, however, has dissociation constants for binding to D2 and D3 that are 4 to 30 times the therapeutic free concentration of clozapine in plasma water. This observation suggests the existence of other types of dopamine receptors which are more sensitive to clozapine. Here we report the cloning of a gene that encodes such a receptor (D4). The D4 receptor gene has high homology to the human dopamine D2 and D3 receptor genes. The pharmacological characteristics of this receptor resembles that of the D2 and D3 receptors, but its affinity for clozapine is one order of magnitude higher. Recognition and characterization of this clozapine neuroleptic site may prove useful in the design of new types of drugs. 
Unproven methods of cancer management. Laetrile. "Laetrile" is used interchangeably with "amygdalin" to designate natural substances, derived primarily from apricots and almonds, that can release cyanide, which is lethal to living organisms. In the 1920s, Dr. Ernst T. Krebs, Sr., formulated a theory that amygdalin could kill cancer cells. His theory was inconsistent with biochemical facts and has since been modified at least twice by his son, Ernst T. Krebs, Jr. Extensive work has been done by cancer scientists to test the claim that Laetrile fights cancer. Many animal experiments in the 1970s showed a complete lack of tumor killing by Laetrile. Reviews of the medical records of patients whose cancers were claimed to be reduced or cured after Laetrile treatment found insufficient medical evidence to judge Laetrile's efficacy. Finally, in a clinical trial in cancer patients reported in 1982, Laetrile neither caused shrinkage of tumors, nor increased survival time, nor alleviated cancer symptoms, nor enhanced well-being. Several reports in the medical literature document instances in which Laetrile has caused serious, life-threatening toxicity when taken in large doses in the manner prescribed by Laetrile advocates. In light of the lack of efficacy of Laetrile and its demonstrated ability to cause harm, Laetrile should not be used to treat cancer. 
Pain characterization in cancer patients and the analgetic response to epidural morphine. In 48 patients with pain related to malignancy, a pain characterization was performed during oral opioid therapy. After an optimal epidural morphine regimen had been established, the alteration in pain relief was evaluated by means of a visual analogue scale. The CSF and plasma morphine concentrations at minimum steady state were then analysed in 28 patients and related to the degree of pain relief. The efficacy of the spinal treatment ranked in the following order: somatic greater than visceral greater than radiating = 0, but the difference was only significant between the somatic and radiating pain groups. There was a tendency for continuous pain to be better relieved than intermittent pain. No correlations were found between the CSF or plasma morphine concentrations and the degree of pain relief, suggesting that not all pain impulses are modulated in a dose-dependent manner by morphine at the spinal level. Pain characterization may be instrumental in providing an optimal spinal opioid analgesia in malignancy. Moreover, there is a need for better defined diagnostic criteria for clinical pain characterization. 
Abnormal guanine nucleotide regulatory protein in MVP dysautonomia: evidence from reconstitution of Gs. We and others have used the term MVP dysautonomia for a particular subset of hyperadrenergic dysautonomia patients. The role of the stimulatory guanine nucleotide regulatory protein (Gs) in this dysautonomia was studied by cholate extraction of Gs from erythrocytes from 11 normal subjects and 14 symptomatic dysautonomic patients and reconstitution into cyc-S49 lymphoma membranes, which have normal receptor and adenylyl cyclase but lack Gs. Isoproterenol-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in the dysautonomia group was increased compared to that in controls [3.66 +/- 0.20 (mean +/- SE; n = 14) vs. 2.87 +/- 0.14 (n = 11) U cyc- reconstituted activity/mg erythrocyte protein; P less than 0.05]. beta-Adrenergic receptor high affinity state formation was greatest in the severely symptomatic group [KL/KH: severe symptoms, 130 +/- 48 (n = 6); mild symptoms, 33 +/- 7 (n = 7); control, 27 +/- 6 (n = 11); severe dysautonomia distinct, P less than 0.017]. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels of cholera toxin-dependent ADP-ribosylated G-proteins yielded no gross distinction between severely symptomatic and control groups. This subset of hyperadrenergic dysautonomia patients, thus, has supercoupled beta 2-adrenergic receptors (increase in both agonist binding and cyclase activation) conferred by an abnormal Gs, whose effects on agonist binding reflect the severity of illness. 
Diastolic perfusion time at ischemic threshold in patients with stress-induced ischemia BACKGROUND. To evaluate the relevance of diastolic perfusion time on the mechanisms underlying stress-induced ischemia, 16 patients with coronary artery disease and seven patients with syndrome X underwent five randomized stress tests (upright and supine exercise with and without therapy, transesophageal atrial pacing). METHODS AND RESULTS. Exercise duration Time to 0.1 mV ST segment depression, heart rate, rate-pressure product, and diastolic perfusion time were evaluated for each patient during stress tests. In both groups, variability coefficients of the above-mentioned parameters were not different at rest. At ischemic threshold (0.1 mV ST segment depression) in patients with coronary artery disease, the variability coefficient of exercise duration (40.1 +/- 22.2) was significantly higher (p less than 0.0001) than those of heart rate (12.8 +/- 2.9), rate-pressure product (14.8 +/- 3.3), and diastolic perfusion time (0.39 +/- 0.1). The variability coefficient of diastolic perfusion time was also significantly (p less than 0.0001) lower than those of heart rate and rate-pressure product. Similarly, the variability coefficient of diastolic perfusion time (0.44 +/- 0.1) in syndrome X patients was significantly lower (p less than 0.0001) than those of exercise duration (28.2 +/- 9.4), heart rate (12 +/- 1.4), and rate-pressure product (14.6 +/- 1.3). CONCLUSIONS. Fixed diastolic perfusion time at ischemic threshold, despite different kinds of stress tests and variability of heart rate and rate-pressure product, indicates the relevant role of diastolic perfusion time in determining myocardial ischemia. 
Comparison of coronary and myocardial morphologic findings in patients with and without thrombolytic therapy during fatal first acute myocardial infarction. The TIMI Investigators. The hearts of 61 patients (39 men aged 64 +/- 11 years) who died from 5 hours to 42 days (median 3 days) after a fatal first acute myocardial infarction without having undergone percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery were studied to compare clinical and cardiac morphologic features of patients receiving thrombolytic therapy with tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) to those not receiving thrombolytic therapy. Comparison of findings in the 23 patients who received t-PA intravenously 3 +/- 1 hours after onset of symptoms, with the 38 patients who did not, showed similar baseline characteristics with respect to: age, gender, history of hypertension; location of the infarct; heart weight; severity and numbers of coronary arteries narrowed; and frequencies of plaque rupture, plaque hemorrhage and coronary thrombi. Among the patients receiving t-PA, however, there was a greater frequency of platelet-rich (fibrin-poor) thrombi in the infarct-related coronary arteries (6 of 11 vs 4 of 25 thrombi; p = 0.02), more nonocclusive than occlusive thrombi (6 of 11 vs 4 of 25 thrombi; p = 0.02), and a lower frequency of myocardial rupture (left ventricular free wall or ventricular septum) (5 of 23 [22%] vs 18 of 38 [46%]; p = 0.045). 
Testicular abscess caused by Salmonella typhi. This case, which we believe is the first report of a bacteriologically proven infection of the testis by Salmonella typhi, illustrates the occurrence of this complication in the convalescent phase of typhoid fever and the absence of a clinically evident preceding bacteremic phase. The case also emphasizes the need for prolonged antibiotic therapy and the role of surgery in treatment of relapses. 
Involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in primary osteosarcomas and other bone and soft-tissue tumors. The retinoblastoma (Rb) gene, thought by some to be associated with tumor formation of retinoblastoma as a recessive human oncogene, was investigated in 57 cases using DNA and RNA from primary osteosarcomas and other bone and soft-tissue tumors. Eight of 23 osteosarcoma cases (35%) showed structural alterations of the Rb gene. Three of the eight demonstrated homozygous deletions, and the remaining five cases showed heterozygous deletions. Seven out of eight cases represented deletion of a 7.5-kb HindIII fragment. Northern blot analysis of five cases of osteosarcoma showed that four demonstrated no detectable Rb gene transcription, and one case had a truncated 3.5-kb fragment with a faint 4.7-kb band. In the other 34 cases of bone and soft-tissue tumors, two cases of three malignant fibrous histiocytomas showed an Rb gene abnormality by Southern blot analysis. These results strongly suggest that Rb gene alteration is pertinent to the tumorigenesis of most osteosarcoma cases and some other bone and soft-tissue tumors. 
Neuroanatomy in fragile X females: the posterior fossa. The relative homogeneity of the neuropsychiatric phenotype in individuals with fragile (fra) X syndrome suggests that there are consistent central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities underlying the observed cognitive and behavioral abnormalities. In this study, the neuroanatomy of the posterior fossa and other selected CNS regions in 12 young fra X females were compared with those of a group of 12 age-, sex-, and IQ-matched females without evidence of the fra X syndrome. Fra X females were shown to have decreased size of the posterior cerebellar vermis and increased size of the fourth ventricle, findings that are identical to those previously reported for fra X males. When compared with fra X male and nonfra X control groups, the distribution of the posterior-vermis and fourth-ventricle variables for the fra X female group was intermediate. These results support the hypothesis that the fra X genetic abnormality leads to hypoplasia of the posterior cerebellar vermis, a neuroanatomical variation of potential importance to both developmental and neuropsychiatric syndromes. 
Multihormonal regulation of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 in rat H4IIE hepatoma cells: the dominant role of insulin. Circulating levels of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) and the abundance of hepatic IGFBP-1 mRNA are increased in streptozotocin-diabetic rats and are regulated in accordance with insulin and metabolic status. We recently purified rat IGFBP-1 from medium conditioned by well differentiated rat H4IIE hepatoma cells. Since this cell line provides a useful model for examining the effects of hormones on hepatocellular function, we used H4IIE cells to examine the relative role that insulin and other factors may play in the regulation of IGFBP-1 production. H4IIE cells were stabilized in serum-free medium, then treated with specific hormones. The availability of IGFBPs in conditioned medium was estimated by [125I]IGF-I binding assay, and specific BPs were assessed by Western ligand and immunoblot analyses. The abundance of IGFBP-1 mRNA was determined by Northern and slot blot analysis. Initial studies revealed that [125I]IGF-I-binding activity in conditioned medium was reduced after 24-h incubation with 100 nM insulin (52 +/- 4% of control; P less than 0.001). In contrast, binding activity was increased after only 4 h of incubation with 75 microM 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)cAMP (8-CPT-cAMP) or 1 microM dexamethasone (P less than 0.001 vs. control for each), but these effects were prevented by insulin. Ligand and immunoblotting demonstrated that insulin decreased the production of 32K and 34K forms of IGFBP-1, while both 8-CPT-cAMP and dexamethasone increased the production of IGFBP-1; again, insulin prevented the effects of 8-CPT-cAMP and dexamethasone. Of note, 1 microM rat GH, testosterone, progesterone, or 17 beta-estradiol had no effect on either IGF-binding activity or IGFBP-1 production. Northern and slot blot analyses revealed that 100 nM insulin profoundly lowered the abundance of IGFBP-1 mRNA in H4IIE cells (4 +/- 0.6% of control at 4 h; P less than 0.001), while IGFBP-1 mRNA was increased 2-fold during incubation with 75 microM 8-CPT-cAMP (P less than 0.001) and 9-fold with 1 microM dexamethasone (P less than 0.001). Once again, the effect of insulin was dominant; insulin both prevented and reversed the effects of maximally effective concentrations of 8-CPT-cAMP and dexamethasone. To determine whether this effect of insulin reflected altered generation or stability of IGFBP-1 mRNA, H4IIE cells were incubated with 2.5 micrograms/ml actinomycin-D with or without insulin, and mRNA was quantitated by Northern blot.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Survival of DNA HLA-DR typed and matched cadaver kidney transplants. The Collaborative Transplant Study. The clinical value of serological HLA matching for cadaver kidney transplantation remains uncertain because the success rate for HLA-matched cadaver transplants is lower than that of HLA-matched sibling grafts. Up to 25% of serological HLA-DR typings may be incorrect when compared with a more accurate DNA-RFLP method, and we have now examined whether incorrect HLA-DR typings account for the lower than expected success rates of HLA-matched cadaver transplants. 58 transplant centres took part in this study and DNA was extracted from over 4000 samples of frozen tissue at the study centre. 8 laboratories then completed blind RFLP typing for HLA-DR. Serological typing data were reported by individual transplant laboratories. 29 of 107 transplants (27%) that were reported as HLA A, B, DR compatible and 76 of 273 (28%) transplants that were reported as HLA B, DR compatible according to serological typing were found to be HLA-DR mismatched by DNA typing. The one-year transplant success rate for DNA-matched HLA, A, B, DR grafts was 87% compared with 69% for mismatched grafts (p less than 0.02); the corresponding success rate for DNA-matched HLA B, DR grafts was 85% compared with 72% for mismatched grafts (p less than 0.01). Many transplants that were previously thought to be HLA matched are mismatched, and this finding may account for previously unexplained graft failures. 
Oestrogen and androgen states in oligo-amenorrhoeic women with polycystic ovaries. Oestrogen and androgen states have been studied in relation to ovarian morphology defined by ultrasonography in 65 women with oligo-amenorrhoea. Of the 48 women with polycystic ovaries (PCO), 44 (92%) had a withdrawal bleed following progestogen challenge (indicating oestrogenization) compared with just three (18%) of the 17 with non-PCO (P less than 0.001). Median serum concentrations of oestradiol and oestrone were statistically significantly higher in the PCO group but the ranges overlapped widely. Of the four women with PCO but oestrogen deficiency, two were hirsute and had evidence of a severe form of the disorder. The other two were not hirsute and appeared to have hypothalamic dysfunction associated with weight loss overriding the disorder due to pre-existing PCO. Compared with the non-PCO group, the PCO subgroup without hirsutism (n = 31) had statistically significantly higher median values of LH, testosterone, androstenedione, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate concentrations, and free androgen index. Concentrations of androgen, but not LH, were significantly higher still in the PCO subgroup with hirsutism (n = 17). 
Nonpalpable breast lesions: stereotactic automated large-core biopsies. One hundred two patients with mammographically suspicious, nonpalpable lesions underwent stereotactic breast biopsy with a biopsy gun and an automated 14-gauge cutting needle. After biopsy, a localization wire was placed and surgical biopsy performed. There was agreement of the histologic results from the gun biopsy and the surgical biopsy specimens in 98 cases (96%), including 22 of 23 carcinomas (96%) (kappa = 0.936). The gun biopsy yielded findings that led to the correct diagnosis in two cases involving lesions that were missed at surgical biopsy; two lesions found at surgery were missed at gun biopsy. The results of this study suggest that the use of 14-gauge needles improves agreement between surgical and needle core biopsy findings and that stereotactic biopsy with an automated needle and gun can be an acceptable alternative to surgical biopsy in women with mammographically suspicious breast lesions. 
The perception of angina in diabetes: relation to somatic pain threshold and autonomic function. Silent ischemia is common in diabetic patients with coronary heart disease. These patients may also have more subtle alteration in the perception of angina as reflected by prolongation of anginal perceptual threshold--the time from onset of 0.1 mV ST segment depression to the onset of chest pain during treadmill exercise. Silent ischemia may be associated with a generalized hyposensitivity to pain, although the pathophysiologic mechanism is obscure. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether diabetic patients with prolonged anginal perceptual thresholds are also hyposensitive to painful stimuli and to investigate whether this is associated with autonomic neuropathy. Nineteen diabetic and 25 nondiabetic patients with exertional angina were exercised on a treadmill to measure anginal perceptual threshold. Somatic pain threshold was measured by calf sphygmomanometry. The cuff was inflated rapidly until pain occurred, and six repeat inflations were done to test reproducibility. Because there was no significant difference between measurements (coefficient of variation = 0.156) the mean value for each patient provided a measure of somatic pain threshold. The diabetic group had a longer anginal perceptual threshold (138 +/- 64 seconds vs 34 +/- 51 seconds, p less than 0.001), which correlated positively with the somatic pain threshold (r = 0.5, p = 0.03); patients with more prolonged anginal perceptual thresholds tended to have higher somatic pain thresholds. In the diabetic group anginal perceptual (r = -0.3, p = NS) and somatic pain (r = -0.4, p = 0.05) thresholds tended to increase as the ratio of peak to minimal heart rate during the Valsalva maneuver fell below 1.21, but these variables were unrelated in the nondiabetic group. 
Systolic ejection murmurs in the elderly: aortic valve and carotid arteries echo-Doppler findings. Two-dimensional echographic and color Doppler studies of the heart and carotid arteries (CA) were performed in 45 patients greater than sixty-five years old without aortic stenosis, 23 with (Group 1) and 22 without (group 2) precordial ejection systolic murmur (SM). Aortic cusps thickening was found in 11 Group 1 (48%) and 2 Group 2 (9%) patients (p less than 0.001). Aortic root and aortic arch size were similar in the two groups. Maximum aortic flow velocity was significantly greater in Group 1 (200 60 cm/sec) than in Group 2 (120 20 cm/sec) (p less than 0.001). Left ventricular outflow systolic maximum velocity was similar in the two groups. A bilateral neck murmur was heard in 10/23 Group 1 patients (43%); in this group, patients with cervical SM had a greater maximum aortic flow velocity than those without cervical SM (230 + 60 cm/sec vs 172 + 32 cm/sec, p less than 0.001). In Group 1, 3 patients had a cervical SM louder on one neck side; only in these 3 patients were ipsilateral obstructive CA plaques found. A unilateral neck SM was heard in 4/22 Group 2 patients (18%); in these 4, ipsilateral obstructive CA were found. Conclusions: (1) in the elderly, precordial ejection SM is related to mild increase in maximum aortic flow velocity and thickening of aortic cusps; (2) in patients with precordial SM radiated to both neck sides, maximum aortic flow velocity tends to be more markedly increased; (3) in patients with precordial SM, a cervical SM louder on one neck side should suggest coexistent ipsilateral CA stenosis. 
I-TevI, the endonuclease encoded by the mobile td intron, recognizes binding and cleavage domains on its DNA target. Mobility of the phage T4 td intron depends on activity of an intron-encoded endonuclease (I-TevI), which cleaves a homologous intronless (delta In) target gene. The double-strand break initiates a recombination event that leads to intron transfer. We found previously that I-TevI cleaves td delta In target DNA 23-26 nucleotides upstream of the intron insertion site. DNase I-footprinting experiments and gel-shift assays indicate that I-TevI makes primary contacts around the intron insertion site. A synthetic DNA duplex spanning the insertion site but lacking the cleavage site was shown to bind I-TevI specifically, and when cloned, to direct cleavage into vector sequences. The behavior of the cloned duplex and that of deletion and insertion mutants support a primary role for sequences surrounding the insertion site in directing I-TevI binding, conferring cleavage ability, and determining cleavage polarity. On the other hand, sequences around the cleavage site were shown to influence cleavage efficiency and cut-site selection. The role of cleavage-site sequences in determining cleavage distance argues against a strict "ruler" mechanism for cleavage by I-TevI. The complex nature of the homing site recognized by this unusual type of endonuclease is considered in the context of intron spread. 
Neobladder construction using completely detubularized sigmoid colon after radical cystoprostatectomy. To improve the quality of life of the patient we used completely detubularized sigmoid colon for bladder reconstruction along with radical cystoprostatectomy in 6 men with invasive bladder cancer. Followup was 8 to 20 months. Postoperatively, all of the patients were continent during the day but only 4 (66.7%) were continent at night, although they had to awaken twice to remain dry. Neocystourethroscopy in 4 of the 6 patients revealed no tumor and no stricture at the urethrocolonic anastomosis. However, a stone in the neobladder was found in 1 patients. Urodynamic study of the neobladder showed a low pressure (mean 16.7 cm. water) at the filling phase of water cystometry and an adequate maximal urethral closure pressure (mean 52.0 cm. water) and functional profile length (mean 3.8 cm.). The uroflow rate in all patients was good (1 patient even had a maximal uroflow rate of 31 ml. per second). There was no reflux in any patient. One patient had intestinal obstruction 5 months postoperatively and died 5 months later of widespread metastasis. The remaining 5 patients are alive with a satisfactory quality of life. In conclusion, use of completely detubularized sigmoid colon may be an ideal operation for neobladder construction after radical cystoprostatectomy. 
Entrapment of a cat in a new-style pet food container. Although many regulations exist to protect human consumers from hazardous products, there are no comparable safeguards for products intended for pet use. The authors describe a case in which a new-style cat food container presented a hazard to pets. 
Fetal supraventricular tachycardia and hydrops fetalis: combined intensive, direct, and transplacental therapy. A 25-week fetus with severe hydrops fetalis secondary to supraventricular tachycardia was treated with fetal intramuscular injections of digoxin in conjunction with maternal intravenous digoxin, followed by oral digoxin and subsequently by oral procainamide therapy. Fetal umbilical blood sampling revealed poor placental transfer of digoxin, even after 2 weeks of therapeutic maternal levels. This case suggests that direct fetal therapy is of value in the treatment of some fetuses with supraventricular tachycardia, and lends further evidence that the role of transplacental digoxin therapy is limited in the compromised fetus. It also demonstrates that resolution of hydrops may require a prolonged period. 
Superiority of granisetron to dexamethasone plus prochlorperazine in the prevention of chemotherapy-induced emesis. Trials of selective 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonists have shown excellent antiemetic activity for chemotherapy containing cisplatin when compared with high-dose metoclopramide. There is little information about the efficacy of these new agents for chemotherapy other than for high-dose cisplatin. We performed a double-blind, randomized trial comparing a single dose of the 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonist granisetron (BRL 43694A) as a single intravenous dose with dexamethasone plus prochlorperazine in 152 patients receiving their first course of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (mainly doxorubicin- and cyclophosphamide-containing combinations). During the first 24 hours, there was a statistically significant advantage for the granisetron group in terms of the prevention of both nausea and emesis. There was no difference in the frequency of reported adverse events. We conclude that granisetron is more effective than dexamethasone plus prochlorperazine in patients who are receiving moderately emetogenic cytotoxic agents. 
The Damus-Stansel-Kaye procedure: anatomical determinants and modifications. Seven of 119 patients undergoing anatomical correction for transposition of the great arteries and Taussig-Bing anomalies without pulmonary stenosis had the Damus-Stansel-Kaye procedure and the rest, the arterial switch. The age of the patients having the Damus-Stansel-Kaye procedure ranged from 0.5 year to 5 years (mean age, 2.2 +/- 1 years). Four patients had transposition, 2 had Taussig-Bing anomaly, and 1 had corrected transposition. Indications for the Damus-Stansel-Kaye procedure were side-by-side great arteries associated with difficult coronary anatomy (5 patients), single coronary system (1 patient), and subaortic stenosis (1). A graft between the ascending and descending aorta for interrupted aortic arch made mobilization and posterior displacement of the ascending aorta for the arterial switch difficult. Subaortic stenosis (1 patient), subpulmonary ventricular septal defect (2 patients), and restrictive ventricular septal defect (4) precluded the Rastelli procedure. In 6 patients, the main pulmonary artery was transected at the band, a proximal main pulmonary artery to aorta anastomosis was complemented with a synthetic patch, and a right ventricle to distal main pulmonary artery valved conduit was inserted. Four patients had closure of the aortic outflow. Two patients had postoperative bleeding and 2, heart block. The only patient who did not have transection of the main pulmonary artery, an omission that led to an obstructed conduit at the distal anastomosis, died late. Two patients subsequently needed aortic outflow closure for critical aortic insufficiency. The Damus-Stansel-Kaye procedure has a definite role and can be safely performed in patients with transposition of the great arteries and Taussig-Bing anomalies. 
Low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) reduces restenosis after iliac angioplasty in the hypercholesterolemic rabbit. Smooth muscle cell proliferation is central to the process of restenosis. Attempts to inhibit the events leading to this proliferation have met with little success. In addition to its known antithrombotic effects, heparin also has inhibitory effects on smooth muscle cell proliferation. These effects appear to be unrelated to its anticoagulant properties and are retained in low molecular weight heparin derivatives. Although the use of heparin for as long as 18 to 24 h after coronary angioplasty in humans has not prevented restenosis, longer treatment periods have not been assessed. This study examines the effect of treatment with a low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) in a hypercholesterolemic rabbit iliac artery model. Control rabbits had a mean iliac artery diameter of 0.70 +/- 0.06 mm, which increased to 1.73 +/- 0.09 mm after balloon angioplasty. At follow-up angiography 4 weeks later, the mean vessel diameter was 0.56 +/- 0.12 mm. Animals treated with low dose enoxaparin (1 mg/kg per day) for 4 weeks and high dose enoxaparin (10 mg/kg per day) for either 2 or 4 weeks had similar mean luminal diameters before and immediately after angioplasty. At follow-up angiography, the mean luminal diameter was 0.82 +/- 0.17 mm for low dose enoxaparin, 1.04 +/- 0.20 mm for 2 week high dose enoxaparin (p = 0.03 versus control) and 1.19 +/- 0.09 mm for 4 week high dose enoxaparin (p = 0.001 versus control). When defined as loss of 50% of the initial gain achieved with angioplasty, restenosis was found in all control vessels. 
Post-herpetic neuralgia: further post-mortem studies of cases with and without pain. The pathological features associated with post-herpetic neuralgia require further study. We report here 5 cases, 3 with severe post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) and 2 with no persistent pain. The findings of dorsal horn atrophy and cell, axon and myelin loss with fibrosis in the sensory ganglion were found only in patients with persistent pain. Marked loss of myelin and axons in the nerve and/or sensory root were found in cases with and without pain. Some evidence is presented for a more generalized subacute or chronic inflammatory process which may explain the clinical features of some patients. Further studies will be necessary to fully describe the morbid anatomy of this disorder. 
Gonadal vein thrombosis in patients with acute gastrointestinal inflammation: diagnosis with CT. During a 31-month period, evidence of gonadal vein thrombosis (GVT) was demonstrated by computed tomography (CT) in seven patients who had a broad spectrum of acute gastrointestinal inflammatory lesions, including diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, appendicitis with abscess, and perforated appendix with pseudomembranous colitis. All patients had lower abdominal pain, tenderness, fever, and leukocytosis. CT demonstrated thrombus through the length of the gonadal vein in each patient; the entire lumen of the vein was filled. No symptoms relating to GVT were present. GVT may resolve with treatment of the underlying enteric disease alone, and anticoagulant therapy may not be necessary. 
High energy neutron treatment for pelvic cancers: study stopped because of increased mortality. OBJECTIVE--To compare high energy fast neutron treatment with conventional megavoltage x ray treatment in the management of locally advanced pelvic carcinomas (of the cervix, bladder, prostate, and rectum). DESIGN--Randomised study from February 1986; randomisation to neutron treatment or photon treatment was unstratified and in the ratio of 3 to 1 until January 1988, when randomisation was in the ratio 1 to 1 and stratified by site of tumour. SETTING--Mersey regional radiotherapy centre at Clatterbridge Hospital, Wirral. PATIENTS--151 patients with locally advanced, non-metastatic pelvic cancer (27 cervical, 69 of the bladder, seven prostatic, and 48 of the rectum). INTERVENTION--Randomisation to neutron treatment was stopped in February 1990. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Patient survival and causes of death in relation to the development of metastatic disease and treatment related morbidity. RESULTS--In the first phase of the trial 42 patients were randomised to neutron treatment and 14 to photon treatment, and in the second phase 48 to neutron treatment and 47 to photon treatment. The relative risk of mortality for photons compared with neutrons was 0.66 (95% confidence interval 0.40 to 1.10) after adjustment for site of tumour and other important prognostic factors. Short term and long term complications were similar in both groups. CONCLUSIONS--The trial was stopped because of the increased mortality in patients with cancer of the cervix, bladder, or rectum treated with neutrons. 
Noninvasive face mask mechanical ventilation in patients with acute hypercapnic respiratory failure. Mechanically assisted intermittent positive-pressure ventilation effectively provides ventilatory support in patients with respiratory failure but it requires placing an artificial airway. We have previously reported our successful experience delivering mechanical ventilation via a face mask (FMMV) rather than with an endotracheal tube in a pilot study of patients with acute respiratory failure. The present investigation evaluated an additional 18 patients with hypercapnic respiratory failure to determine the efficacy of FMMV in a more homogeneous group and to determine factors predicting its success. FMMV was successful in avoiding intubation in 13 of the 18 patients. A significant initial improvement in PCO2 (greater than 16 percent decrease) and in pH (from less than 7.30 to greater than 7.30) predicted success. The five patients who failed on FMMV required endotracheal intubation because of inability to improve gas exchange (three patients), apnea due to sedatives (one patient), and management of secretions (one patient). FMMV was generally well accepted with only two patients withdrawn because of intolerance of the mask. The mean duration of FMMV was 25 h. Complications were seen in only two patients (11 percent): aspiration (one patient) and mild skin necrosis (one patient). Seven patients entered the study by meeting entrance criteria after an unsuccessful extubation attempt and therefore received both forms of mechanical ventilation. All but one patient avoided reintubation, and the face mask proved to be as effective as the endotracheal tube as a conduit for delivering the mechanical tidal volume and improving gas exchange. Our findings indicate that FMMV is a viable option for short-term (one to four days) ventilatory support of patients with hypercapnic respiratory failure and insufficiency. 
Evaluation of combination thrombolytic therapy and timing of cardiac catheterization in acute myocardial infarction. Results of thrombolysis and angioplasty in myocardial infarction--phase 5 randomized trial. TAMI Study Group Recent trials of myocardial reperfusion using single-agent thrombolytic therapy and sequential cardiac catheterization have supported a conservative approach to the patient with acute myocardial infarction. To evaluate combination thrombolytic therapy and the role of a previously untested strategy for the aggressive use of cardiac catheterization, we performed a multicenter clinical trial with a 3 x 2 factorial design in which 575 patients were randomly allocated to one of three drug regimens--tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) (n = 191), urokinase (n = 190), or both (n = 194) - and one of two catheterization strategies--immediate catheterization with angioplasty for failed thrombolysis (n = 287) or deferred predischarge catheterization on days 5-10 (n = 288). Patients with contraindications to thrombolytic therapy, cardiogenic shock, or age of more than 75 years were excluded. Global left ventricular ejection fraction was well preserved and almost identical at predischarge catheterization (54%), regardless of the catheterization or thrombolytic strategy used (p = 0.98). Combination thrombolytic therapy was associated with a less complicated clinical course, most clearly documented by a lower rate of reocclusion (2%) compared with urokinase (7%) and t-PA (12%) (p = 0.04) and a lower rate of recurrent ischemia (25%) compared with urokinase (35%) and t-PA (31%). When a composite clinical end point (e.g., death, stroke, reinfarction, reocclusion, heart failure, or recurrent ischemia) was examined, combination thrombolytic therapy was associated with greater freedom from any adverse event (68%) compared with either single agent (urokinase, 55%; t-PA, 60%) (p = 0.04) and with a less complicated clinical course when the composite clinical end points were ranked according to clinical severity (p = 0.024). Early patency rates were greater with combination therapy, although predischarge patency rates after considering interventions to maintain patency were similar among drug regimens. No difference in bleeding complication rates was observed with any thrombolytic regimen. The aggressive catheterization strategy led to an overall early patency rate of 96% and a predischarge patency rate of 94% compared with a 90% predischarge patency in the conservative strategy (p = 0.065). The aggressive strategy improved regional wall motion in the infarct region (-2.16 SDs/chord) compared with deferred catheterization (-2.49 SDs/chord) (p = 0.004). More patients treated with the aggressive strategy were free from adverse outcomes (67% versus 55% in the conservative strategy, p = 0.004), and the clinical course was less complicated when the adverse outcomes were ranked according to severity (p = 0.016). No significant increase in use of blood products resulted from the aggressive strategy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Colonoscopically guided tube decompression in Ogilvie's syndrome. Ogilvie's syndrome (pseudo-obstruction of the colon) may result in gangrene and perforation of the colon if not effectively treated. Colonoscopic decompression and endoscopically guided rectal tube placement were employed to treat five patients with this syndrome who had failed medical therapy. All patients tolerated the procedure well and required no further treatment. 
Introducing an acute pain service. An acute pain service in a new district general hospital is described. We have reported incidence of severe pain, common postoperative anaesthetic problems and patient satisfaction in relation to the analgesic technique. Over half the patients were treated by intermittent intramuscular injection of opioid, but increase in the use of continuous intravenous therapy and in particular patient-controlled analgesia, was welcomed by both medical and nursing staff. 
Specific triggering of gamma, delta T cells by K562 activates the gamma, delta T cell receptor and may regulate natural killer-like function. Freshly isolated and resting gamma/delta T cell lines, although capable of lysing a variety of MHC-unrestricted targets, fail to lyse K562. Yet, the killing of K562 can be specifically induced by antibodies to CD3 or delta-chains. Although this phenomenon may be caused by redirected lysis, it also raised the possibility that K562 may possess ligands capable of specifically interacting with the gamma/delta receptor. We found that K562 specifically induced both CD3 and delta modulation as well as IL-2R expression and IL-2 production by gamma/delta cells, supporting the idea that the TCR-gamma/delta is specifically triggered by K562 cells. Moreover, although the gamma/delta cell clones lysed other target cells (e.g., Molt 4, U937, Jurkat etc.), these latter targets did not induce delta modulation or IL-2R expression. In addition, F(ab)2 anti-CD3 antibodies inhibited activated gamma/delta T cells from killing K562 but did not inhibit the lysis of the other targets. Taken together, these results suggest that gamma/delta cells lyse some targets by utilizing receptors (perhaps NK-like) distinct from the gamma/delta receptor. We also found that triggering of the gamma/delta receptor by K562 inhibited the capacity of resting gamma/delta to lyse Molt 4 cells under conditions in which the K562 cells were not lysed. These findings suggest that the gamma/delta receptor maybe directly involved in the lysis of certain targets (i.e., K562) and, importantly, may potentially regulate the function of NK-like receptors that are involved in the lysis of other targets. 
Modified Indiana pouch. The modified continent Indiana pouch is based upon the terminal 8 to 12 cm. of ileum and 26 to 30 cm. of right colon. Our modifications include complete detubularization of the colonic segment with an easier appendectomy, a transcolonic ureteral reimplantation that is technically simple and reinforced plication of the ileocecal junction. This procedure was performed in 70 patients (ages 27 to 85 years) with followup ranging between 3 and 24 months. There have been 5 hospitalizations for urinary tract infections or gastrointestinal complications. Open surgical revision (4%) has been necessary for incontinence in 1 case, for a redundant ileal limb and difficult catheterization in 1, and for ureteral stenosis in the mid portion of the left ureter in 1. A revision procedure is pending for inadequate reservoir volume. Endoscopic meatotomy of ureterocolonic junction strictures has been necessary in 2 cases. All patients are continent day and night with easy catheterization of volumes ranging between 400 and 800 cc. The modified Indiana pouch should be considered for any patient requiring cutaneous urinary diversion because of a low complication and revision rate, and an excellent continence rate. 
Gastrostomy tube transmigration: a rare cause of small bowel obstruction. A 77-year-old woman with an indwelling gastrostomy tube presented with a clinical picture of pneumonia and small bowel obstruction. During gastrostomy closure and performance of a feeding jejunostomy, inadvertent transmigration of the gastrostomy tube was found to be the etiology of the small intestinal obstruction. This case illustrates a rare complication of enteric feeding tubes. 
Colovesical fistula secondary to vesical gangrene in a diabetic patient. We present a case of colovesical fistula secondary to vesical gangrene. Precipitating factors were diabetes and vesical distension caused by the obstruction of an indwelling catheter. This complication is an exceptional outcome in gangrenous cystitis and it requires emergency surgical treatment. 
Prognosis in AZT myopathy. The myopathy caused by zidovudine (AZT) appears to be common but is incompletely characterized, particularly regarding prognosis. Twenty patients with HIV infection developed a necrotizing myopathy while taking AZT for 9 to 30 months. Ten presented with myalgia and 17 with proximal muscle weakness. Serum CK was elevated in all (two to 11 times normal), and EMG suggested active myopathy in all but two. There were scattered granular degenerating fibers, with scant or no inflammation, in a pattern consistent with a toxic myopathy in all 18 patients biopsied. Three patients with an HIV-related inflammatory myopathy were distinguished by histologic differences. After stopping AZT (n = 15), myalgia promptly resolved (10 of 10). Strength improved more slowly with 12 of 15 regaining normal or nearly normal strength, but three have persistent weakness. CK returned to normal in 12 of 15, and follow-up EMG (n = 11) documented reduced fibrillation density in all 11 patients. These findings underscore the need for early diagnosis of this reversible myopathy. 
Somatostatin cerebrospinal fluid levels in dementia. Somatostatin levels were measured in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Alzheimer's disease, multi-infarct dementia and normal pressure hydrocephalus and compared with levels from a normal control group. All pathological groups showed a statistically significant decrease of somatostatin with respect to the control group, but no significant differences were found amongst them. A negative correlation was found between the Mini Mental State Test and the somatostatin levels in Alzheimer's disease patients but not in the other groups. Our results confirm that the lower levels of somatostatin in cerebrospinal fluid are not specific to Alzheimer's disease and indicate that the decrease found in all the groups is probably the result of neuronal destruction or damage in the diseases examined. 
Human acid maltase-deficient myogenic cell transformation with origin-defective SV40: characterization of a cloned line. A clonal human skeletal muscle cell line showing acid maltase deficiency (AMD) was established through the transfection of origin-defective SV40 DNA. The low acid alpha-glucosidase activity and glycogenosomes in this clone corresponded to AMD. This clone, in spite of loading glycogenososmes, was competent not only as to proliferation without contact inhibition but also as to myogenic differentiation to some extent. Dexamethasone promoted the formation by the transformant of multinucleated myotubes, which expressed acetylcholine receptors. The existence of glycogenosomes did not seem to affect the proliferation or differentiation of myoblasts. The aberrant acid alpha-glucosidase expressed in the transformed myogenic clone was shown to be biochemically identical to that in AMD fibroblasts. This transformant should be of great value for investigating the pathogenesis of AMD because of the possibility of supplying semi-permanently a uniform myogenic cell line expressing AMD. 
Late onset Krabbe's leukodystrophy: a report of four cases. Four cases of late-onset Krabbe's leukodystrophy had varying clinical features. One sibling became wheelchair-bound while another leads an active working life. The computed tomography (CT) scan of a third patient showed occipital demyelination with contrast enhancement identical to that seen in an adrenoleucodystrophy. The fourth was the only patient with peripheral neuropathy. All patients had enzyme activity comparable to the classic infantile-onset form. 
MIDAS, the Multicenter Isradipine/Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study. Design features and baseline data. The Multicenter Isradipine/Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS) is a randomized, double-blind, active-control trial to compare the effectiveness of two treatment regimens for the control of hypertension in reducing the rate of progression of early extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis in hypertensive patients. The two double-blind treatment regimens are 2.5 or 5 mg isradipine twice daily and 12.5 mg or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide twice daily. Patients whose blood pressure is not controlled with either of these regimens will receive, in addition to the highest tolerated dose of the blinded drug, 2.5 to 10 mg open-label enalapril twice daily. The MIDAS study has enrolled 883 patients to treatment with either isradipine or hydrochlorothiazide. Inclusion criteria included men and women over the age of 40 years, the presence of an atherosclerotic lesion in the extracranial carotid artery demonstrated on B-mode ultrasound scanning (maximum thickness between 1.3 and 3.5 mm), an average sitting diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 115 mm Hg, and low-density lipoprotein levels between 130 and 189 mg/dL. An assessment of each patient's blood pressure and any side effects is made every three months; a B-mode ultrasound examination of the carotid arteries was performed at baseline and every six months thereafter; an electrocardiogram was carried out at baseline and once a year thereafter; and a brief quality-of-life assessment was made at baseline and every year thereafter. 
Abnormal platelet and lymphocyte calcium handling in prehypertensive rats. We have reported that the basal and stimulated cytosolic free calcium concentrations [( Ca2+]i) are elevated in platelets isolated from 12-14-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) as compared with normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. To determine whether altered cell calcium metabolism precedes the development of overt hypertension, we measured [Ca2+]i under resting and stimulated conditions in blood platelets and thymic lymphocytes isolated from 4-week-old prehypertensive SHR and WKY rats. Blood pressure was similar in both groups (SHR 95 +/- 8 versus WKY rats 92 +/- 7 mm Hg). Basal [Ca2+]i in platelets was higher in SHR than WKY rats (63.4 +/- 3.9 versus 54.8 +/- 3.1 nM, p less than 0.003). Also the [Ca2+]i response to thrombin was greater in SHR than WKY rats in both the presence and absence of extracellular calcium. For lymphocytes, although no difference was detected in basal [Ca2+]i, the concanavalin A-induced peak [Ca2+]i was higher for SHR than WKY rats in both calcium-containing and calcium-free media. These results suggest that agonist-stimulated calcium influx and calcium discharge from intracellular stores are enhanced in both platelets and lymphocytes of 4-week-old SHR. We conclude that abnormalities in calcium metabolism in two different cell types precede the development of overt hypertension in the SHR. 
Mutations in the precore region of hepatitis B virus DNA in patients with fulminant and severe hepatitis BACKGROUND. The presence of the hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) in serum is known to be a marker of a high degree of viral infectivity. However, fulminant hepatitis may occur in persons who are negative for HBeAg. A single point mutation has been reported to produce a stop codon in the precore region of hepatitis B virus DNA and prevent the formation of the precore protein required to make HBeAg. To determine whether a precore-mutant virus is causally related to severe liver injury, we analyzed the entire precore region in viral strains isolated from patients with fatal cases and uncomplicated cases of hepatitis B. METHODS. Serum was obtained from 9 patients with fatal hepatitis B (5 with fulminant and 4 with severe exacerbations of chronic hepatitis) and 10 patients with acute, self-limited hepatitis B. Serum samples from a sex partner implicated as the source of the virus in one case of fulminant hepatitis were also studied. The 87 nucleotides in the precore region of the hepatitis B virus were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and then directly sequenced. RESULTS. Of the nine patients with fatal hepatitis, seven had retrievable hepatitis B DNA. In all seven there was a point mutation from G to A at nucleotide 1896 of the precore region, converting tryptophan (TGG) to a stop codon (TAG). In contrast, this mutation was not found in the 10 patients with acute, self-limited hepatitis B. The hepatitis B DNA from the implicated source contained a sequence with the stop-codon mutation that was identical to the sequence in her partner, who had fulminant hepatitis. CONCLUSIONS. The presence of a mutant viral strain is associated with and may be involved in the pathogenesis of fulminant hepatitis B and severe exacerbations of chronic hepatitis B. 
The place of oophorectomy at vaginal hysterectomy. A series of 740 vaginal hysterectomies with attempted vaginal oophorectomy is presented and compared with 700 vaginal hysterectomies without oophorectomy. Vaginal oophorectomy was successful in 94% of the patients. Factors influencing the success include obesity, nulliparity, decreased vaginal access and space, lack of uterine descent, increased uterine size and tubo-ovarian disease. These have been analysed and the recognition and management of technical difficulties are described. There was no morbidity attributable to the vaginal oophorectomy. With experience and appropriate technique suitable women can be offered prophylactic oophorectomy at the time of vaginal hysterectomy. 
Hemostasis activation during esophageal variceal sclerotherapy with thrombin in cirrhotics. Sclerotherapy of bleeding esophageal varices in liver cirrhotics is a common procedure, but little is known about the possible entry of sclerosants into the systemic circulation. We injected a mixture of thrombin, sodium tetradecyl, and cefazolin and studied the effect of this sclerosant on selected hemostasis parameters. Twenty-four patients with liver cirrhosis (Child's Classification C) were studied 29 times. Blood samples were drawn before and immediately after the injection of the sclerosant. In seven patients we collected a sample 30 minutes and 24 hours after treatment. Before injection, almost all patients had elevated D-dimer, t-PA and PAI-1 levels. Fibrinogen, antithrombin, alpha-2 antiplasmin, and protein C were decreased. Only thrombin/antithrombin III complex (TAT) levels were within normal ranges. Immediately after the injection, TAT, D-dimer, and t-PA levels rose significantly (P less than 0.001, P less than 0.01, P less than 0.001), PAI-1 and PC levels decreased (P less than 0.01), while antithrombin, alpha-2 antiplasmin, and fibrinogen concentrations were unchanged. TAT and D-dimer levels were still elevated after 24 hours (P less than 0.05). These data indicate that thrombin entered the systemic circulation (elevated TAT) and that the hemostasis system was briefly systemically activated (elevated D-dimer). In spite of these changes in the hemostasis system, clinically there were no detectable thrombotic or hemorrhagic complications. 
Electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects, efficacy and safety of encainide in malignant ventricular arrhythmias associated with coronary artery disease. The electrophysiologic and electrocardiographic effects, efficacy and safety of encainide were evaluated in 48 patients with coronary artery disease undergoing programmed stimulation for ventricular tachyarrhythmias. The study group included 41 men and 7 women, aged 64 +/- 8 years (mean +/- standard deviation), who had presented with nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) (4 patients), sustained VT (32), ventricular fibrillation (8) or unexplained syncope (4). The left ventricular ejection fraction averaged 34 +/- 13%. The arrhythmias induced at the baseline, drug-free electrophysiologic study included nonsustained VT in 8 patients, sustained VT in 35 and ventricular fibrillation in 5. All patients had failed greater than or equal to 1 class IA and a combination of class IA and IB agents (mean 2.2 +/- 1.1 drugs) before encainide. Oral encainide was given in a mean daily dose of 80 +/- 11 mg for greater than or equal to 3 days before repeat programmed stimulation. Encainide was discontinued before follow-up electrophysiologic testing in 5 patients due to spontaneous development of new sustained VT. Of the 43 patients undergoing electropharmacologic testing with encainide, 5 had no inducible arrhythmia. In 9 patients VT was inducible by fewer extrastimuli, in 2 patients a previously stable VT required cardioversion, whereas in 28 patients VT remained inducible by the same number of or more extrastimuli. Thus, encainide prevented the induction of VT or ventricular fibrillation in 5 of 48 patients (10%), while it had a possible proarrhythmic effect in 15 patients (31%). Of the 5 patients without inducible VT administered long-term encainide therapy, 1 returned within 4 weeks of hospital discharge with VT recurrence. 
Evidence for alpha 1-adrenoreceptor hyperresponsiveness in hypotensive cirrhotic patients with ascites. Cirrhosis with ascites is often characterized by arterial hypotension associated with increased plasma norepinephrine levels. Clinical evidence suggests a decreased sensitivity to norepinephrine in this clinical setting, indicating a potential derangement of alpha 1 adrenoreceptors. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the reactivity of the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor, using phenylephrine, a selective alpha 1 receptor agonist. First, we evaluated the pupillar response to the intraconjunctival administration of the agonist. Hypotensive cirrhotic patients showed a trend to a more marked and prolonged response, compared with age-matched healthy controls. Second, we studied the response of alpha 1-adrenoreceptors in the peripheral vasculature by administering iv phenylephrine to a similar group of patients. A significantly greater and longer lasting pressor response was observed in hypotensive cirrhotic patients (p less than 0.0001 vs. healthy controls). Our results indicate that in this group of patients, there is a rather peculiar situation, characterized by alpha 1-adrenoreceptor hyperresponsiveness in the presence of high levels of circulating norepinephrine. This finding could be related to biochemical abnormalities within the peripheral sympathetic nervous system endings. 
5-HT3 receptor antagonists and migraine therapy. Neuronal 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors mediate the excitatory effects of 5-HT. They are located in pain- and nausea-modulating areas in the central nervous system and on C-fibre primary afferents in the peripheral nervous system. Consequently, these receptors mediate the painful and emetic effects of 5-HT. Selective and potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonists have been shown to block inflammatory and 5-HT induced and potentiated "vascular pain". Based on the hypothesis that 5-HT3 receptor antagonists may block neurogenic dural inflammation in the distribution area of the trigeminal nerve and, thus, could potentially prevent migraine (pain), four highly selective and potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonists have been tested in both the acute and prophylactic treatment of migraine. Unfortunately, except for a clear anti-emetic effect, none of these drugs has shown unequivocal efficacy in the treatment of migraine. This may be partly due to the complex (bell-shaped) dose-response relationship of these compounds, making exact titration of the correct dose difficult. Moreover, most 5-HT3 receptor antagonists have proved to be toxic in man on chronic administration thereby preventing further trials in migraine with adjusted doses. Short-term treatment for cytotoxic drug-induced emesis so far appears to be the only proven indication for 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. 
Closure of tracheocutaneous fistula with perichondrial flap following cricothyroidotomy. A method for closure of large tracheocutaneous fistulas occurring in the cricothyroid membrane is described. Though an infrequent complication, large defects in this area can be successfully repaired with this technique. 
Chemotherapy with high dose ifosfamide/mesna plus cisplatin for the treatment of ovarian cancer: a study of the Grupo de Estudio y Tratamiento Latino-Americano del Cancer. Twenty-one evaluable patients with FIGO stages II-IV epithelial ovarian cancer, median age 57 (range 47-75 years), were treated with ifosfamide (IF), 3 g/m2 diluted in 500 ml saline solution, 8 hour intravenous (i.v.) infusion on days 1-5; mesna 20% of IF dose, i.v. bolus injection, was given at hours 0 and 4; mesna 40% of IF dose by oral route at hours 8 and 12, days 1-5; plus cisplatin 20 mg/m2 diluted in 500 ml saline solution, 2 hour i.v. infusion, days 1-5. Cycles were repeated every 4 weeks. All patients had metastatic lesions (mesentery, pleura, colon, cervix, abdominal wall, lung, liver, bladder, and nodes). Toxicity ranged from mild to moderate. All patients experienced alopecia, nausea, and vomiting. Neutropenia and anemia ranged from mild to moderate. One patient experienced mild brain confusion and two patients microscopic hematuria. Ten clinically complete responses (47%) and five clinically partial responses (23%) were registered, for an overall 70% objective response. However, after a second look performance in 10 patients with clinically complete response, six of 10 patients showed a pathological complete response and four showed pathological partial response. The median duration of complete response is about 33 months, and median partial response duration is 14 months. Although the numbers are small, these data indicate that combination chemotherapy with high dose ifosfamide/mesna plus cisplatin may be an active treatment for advanced ovarian carcinoma. 
Glucose uptake, perfusion, and cell proliferation in head and neck tumors: relation of positron emission tomography to flow cytometry The uptake of 18F-Deoxyglucose (FDG) was studied in vivo in relation to the proliferation rate of human head and neck tumors. Forty-two patients with histologically proven squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck and four patients with metastases of head and neck tumors were examined with PET and FDG prior to surgery. In 35 of these patients, a flow cytometric analysis of the DNA content and the proliferation rate was done using one-dimensional flow cytometry rate was done using one-dimensional flow cytometry (DAPI staining). In 17 cases, perfusion studies with 15O-labeled water were performed. Twenty-seven specimens were evaluable by flow cytometry. The analysis of the distribution of the FDG uptake revealed two groups, showing a high and a lower uptake pattern. In both groups the FDG uptake and the proliferation rate were correlated with an r-value of 0.64 and 0.8 respectively. However, the slope of the regression function was flat. No correlation was found between the perfusion and the proliferation rate. It is suggested that these differences in uptake in histologically identical tumor populations may correspond to differences at the molecular level, e.g., differences in the amount of the glucose carrier, perhaps caused by oncogenic transformation. 
A case of pheochromocytoma associated with meningioma. We have recently observed a rare case of pheochromocytoma associated with meningioma. To determine the mechanism of such a coexistence in this particular case, we compared the constitutional and pheochromocytoma genotypes of the patient using polymorphic four DNA markers, and we found a loss of heterozygosity at the D1S7 locus. A loss of heterozygosity at this locus has previously been reported by Mathew et al. in pheochromocytoma patients, and our results were in agreement with that study. Therefore the allelic deletion at the D1S7 locus may be an important step in the tumorigenesis of pheochromocytoma in this case. 
Influence of hepatitis B virus infection and age on mode of growth of hepatocellular carcinoma. According to the extent of hepatic involvement of the tumor and that of portal vein invasion at the time of initial diagnosis, patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were grouped into three or four groups. Correlations among the extent of hepatic involvement, extent of portal vein invasion, and prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and age distribution were examined. The extent of hepatic involvement of the tumor and that of portal vein invasion were significantly greater in patients with positive HBsAg compared with findings in the negative patients (P less than 0.001). For cases of both positive and negative HBsAg, patients with a more extensive HCC were significantly younger. Results of the multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that hepatitis B antigenemia and younger age were statistically significant and independent positive predictors of extensive HCC. These results strongly suggest that hepatitis B surface antigenemia and age play an important role in the growth mode and the kinetics of HCC in Japanese patients. 
Effect of mild hyperthermia on the ischemic infarct volume after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. We investigated the effect of mild whole-body hyperthermia (40 degrees C) on a permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) model in Fisher rats by subjecting them to MCAo under the following conditions: (1) normothermia (n = 20); (2) hyperthermia (n = 14) before (1 hour), during, and after (1 hour) MCAo; and (3) post-MCAo hyperthermia (n = 14) for 1 hour. We measured brain and body temperatures during the experiment using micro-thermocouples and blood-brain-barrier (BBB) permeability using Evans blue staining of the brain. We measured the volume of the infarcted brain tissue 4 days after MCAo. We detected no differences in BBB permeability among three groups. The volume of infarcted tissue was significantly greater (p less than 0.05) for the two groups of hyperthermic animals than the normothermic animals. Our data suggest that mild hyperthermia, both during and after induction of ischemia, has a detrimental effect on the ischemic infarct volume in this model. 
Systemic neurohumoral activation and vasoconstriction during pacing-induced acute myocardial ischemia in patients with stable angina pectoris. To identify the effect of myocardial ischemia on systemic neurohormones and vascular resistance, 32 untreated, normotensive patients with coronary artery disease underwent incremental atrial pacing until angina. Arterial and coronary venous lactate and arterial values of catecholamines and angiotensin II were determined at control, at maximal pacing rates, and at 1, 2, 5 and 30 minutes after pacing. Based on pacing-induced ST-segment depression (greater than or equal to 0.1 mV) or myocardial lactate production, or both, patients were selected as ischemic (n = 25) or nonischemic (n = 7). Baseline clinical and hemodynamic data were comparable. During pacing, chest pain was similar (20 ischemic vs 7 nonischemic patients). Also, hemodynamic measurements were comparable, except for contractility, which did not improve, and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, which significantly increased in ischemic patients. Moreover, during ischemia arterial pressures increased significantly (13%) and systemic resistance increased from 1,470 +/- 60 (control) to 1,632 +/- 76 dynes.s.cm-5 5 minutes after pacing (p less than 0.05) in ischemic but not in nonischemic patients. Pacing did not affect neurohormones in nonischemic patients. In contrast, norepinephrine in ischemic patients increased significantly from 1.7 +/- 0.2 (control) to 2.6 +/- 0.3 (maximal pacing) and to 3.0 +/- 0.4 nmol/liter (1 minute after pacing), whereas angiotensin II levels increased from 6.2 +/- 1.4 (control) to 9.3 +/- 2.1 pmol/liter (1 minute after pacing, p less than 0.05). Epinephrine only increased during maximal rates (0.9 +/- 0.1 vs 0.6 +/- 0.1 nmol/liter at control, p less than 0.05). Thus, myocardial ischemia activates circulating catecholamines and angiotensin II, accompanied by systemic vasoconstriction. 
Cigarette smoking and other vascular risk factors in vasculogenic impotence. A total of 132 consecutive patients with erectile impotence underwent extensive evaluation, including vascular evaluation with intracavernous injection of papaverine and penile duplex ultrasonography, to determine the etiology of impotence. Three vascular risk factors, smoking, diabetes mellitus and hypertension, were investigated for their impact on vasculogenic impotence. The patients were divided into four groups: one with no risk factors, one with one vascular risk factor, one with two vascular risk factors, and one with all three risk factors. The results of penile vascular evaluation in these patient groups were compared. The incidence of penile vascular impairment was found to be higher in patients with one vascular risk factor than in those with none. The proportion of abnormal penile vascular findings significantly increased as the number of risk factors increased. These data confirm the important role of vascular risk factors, smoking, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension, in the pathogenesis of organic impotence. 
A randomized comparison of multipolar electrocoagulation and injection sclerosis for the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer. Several options are available to the gastroenterologist for the endoscopic control of peptic ulcer hemorrhage. Sixty men (mean age, 62 years) were stratified into those with actively bleeding ulcers or ulcers with stigmata of recent hemorrhage, and then randomized to treatment with injection sclerosis or the multipolar probe until bleeding ceased. There were no significant differences between the randomized groups in terms of age, ulcer size, or transfusion requirements. We achieved hemostasis in 95% of all patients. Re-bleeding rates were 25% and 23% in patients treated with the multipolar probe and injection sclerosis, respectively. There was no significant difference in mortality (14% multipolar probe, 7% injection sclerosis). Patients over the age of 70, those whose onset of bleeding was while an inpatient, and those with an ulcer larger than 2 cm were more likely to have a poor outcome, regardless of the type of endoscopic therapy. Injection sclerosis and multipolar electrocoagulation are equally effective in controlling bleeding from peptic ulcer. 
Perioperative stroke. Part I: General surgery, carotid artery disease, and carotid endarterectomy. Although stroke, defined as a focal neurological deficit lasting more than 24 hr, is uncommon in the perioperative period, its associated mortality and long-term disability are high. No large-scale data are available to identify the importance of recognized risk factors for stroke in the perioperative period. A review of the literature shows that the incidence and mechanism of its occurrence are influenced by the presence of cardiovascular disease and the type of surgery. The most common cause of perioperative stroke is embolism. In non-cardiac surgery, the incidence of perioperative stroke is higher among the elderly. Properly administered, controlled hypotension is associated with minimal risk of stroke. Cerebral vasospasm may be the cause of focal cerebral ischaemia in eclamptic patients, and the aggressive treatment of hypertension may exacerbate the neurological damage. The risk of stroke associated with carotid endarterectomy is closely related to the preoperative neurological presentation, and the experience of the surgical/anaesthetic team. Symptomatic cerebrovascular disease, acute stroke, asymptomatic carotid lesions, preoperative assessment of risk, local and general anaesthesia, cerebral protection and monitoring during carotid endarterectomy are discussed with reference to reducing the risk of perioperative stroke. Adequate monitoring and protection have minimized the risk of ischaemia from carotid clamping, and the major mechanism of stroke is embolization. 
Failure of centralization of the fibula for congenital longitudinal deficiency of the tibia. Between 1962 and 1983, fourteen patients (twenty knees) had centralization of the fibula for congenital longitudinal deficiency: tibial, complete. Eleven of the twenty index procedures were performed on patients who were one year old or less. A progressive flexion deformity of the knee developed after all twenty index procedures. Twenty-six secondary procedures were needed, including disarticulation at the knee, posterior release, extension osteotomy, femorofibular arthrodesis, and biceps-to-quadriceps transfer, and one patient had a second attempt at centralization of the fibula. The duration of follow-up after the initial centralization of the fibula ranged from four years to twenty-two years and seven months (average, twelve years and four months). Seven patients (eight limbs) in whom the index procedure resulted in failure had a satisfactory result after disarticulation at the knee. The patients who did not have secondary disarticulation at the knee are also considered to have had a failed index procedure because they had a flexion deformity at the latest follow-up. Attempts to reconstruct the knee joint by centralization of the fibula are not warranted for patients who have congenital longitudinal deficiency: tibial, complete. Early disarticulation at the knee and fitting with a prosthesis, with close follow-up, is the treatment of choice. 
Effects of a sodium-potassium ion-exchanging seaweed preparation in mild hypertension. A nonpharmacological approach in the treatment of mild hypertension is often advocated. In an attempt to decrease sodium and increase potassium intake, sixty-two middle-aged patients with mild hypertension were given a potassium loaded ion-exchanging sodium-adsorbing potassium-releasing seaweed preparation (seaweed fiber, SF). The mean blood pressure (MBP), evaluated in a double-blind crossover manner with four weeks familiarization and wash-out periods, showed a significant decrease after four weeks on 12 and 24 g/day SF but not on 6 g/day or placebo treatment. Systolic blood pressure during submaximal exercise decreased on all three SF doses. The decrease in MBP appeared to be significantly higher in sodium-sensitive (11.2 mm Hg, P less than .001) than in sodium-insensitive (5.7 mm Hg, P less than .05) patients and was in salt-sensitive patients significantly correlated to the increase in plasma renin activity (PRA). The urinary sodium excretion decreased, the urinary potassium increased and the sodium/potassium urinary excretion ratio decreased, indicating that the decrease of MBP was dependent on the decreased intestinal absorption of sodium and increased absorption of potassium released from the seaweed preparation. A sodium-potassium ion-exchanging seaweed preparation is an effective means of decreasing sodium and increasing potassium intake, and may be used for antihypertensive treatment in mild hypertension. 
Simulation of high-resolution QRS complex using a ventricular model with a fractal conduction system. Effects of ischemia on high-frequency QRS potentials. Recent studies have analyzed the high-fidelity surface electrocardiographic signal, and efforts have been made to increase the diagnostic sensitivity of the electrocardiogram by observing its high-frequency components. It was found that the high-frequency (150-250-Hz) electrocardiogram appears to detect evidence of transient ischemia with greater sensitivity than visual inspection of the surface electrocardiogram. A finite-element three-dimensional model of the ventricles with a self-similar (fractal) conduction system has been introduced as a bridge to the understanding of electrocardiographic phenomena related to high-frequency potentials. The model was activated, and the dipole potential generated by adjacent activated and resting cells was calculated to obtain a high-resolution QRS complex. Normal and ischemic activation processes was stimulated by regional reduction in conduction velocity. It was found that although the resulted low-frequency QRS complex was not significantly altered from normal conditions, the high-frequency components exhibited morphological changes similar to the ones observed during animal experiments and human studies. Based on the results obtained from the model, it can be concluded that these morphological changes can be attributed to a slowing of conduction velocity in the region of ischemia and that the model is adequate for meeting the challenges imposed by the requirements of high-frequency methods applied in clinical cardiology. 
Complex segregation analysis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma in Chinese families: interaction of inherited susceptibility and hepatitis B viral infection. Primary hepatocellular carcinoma (PHC) is extremely common in eastern China, where it is both associated with chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and often familial. Complex segregation analysis of 490 extended families was undertaken with liability classes defined by age, sex, and HBV infection status. The maximum-likelihood model suggests that a recessive allele with population frequency approximately .25 yields lifetime risk of PHC, in the presence of both HBV infection and genetic susceptibility, of .84 for males and .46 for females. The model further predicts that, in the absence of genetic susceptibility, lifetime risk of PHC is .09 for HBV-infected males and .01 for HBV-infected females and that, regardless of genotype, it is virtually zero for uninfected persons. Complex segregation analysis therefore provides evidence for the interaction of genotype, environmental exposure, sex and age in determining the occurrence of PHC in this population. 
Visual impairment and cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether impaired visual acuity is associated with dementia and cognitive dysfunction in older adults. DESIGN: Paired case-control comparisons of the relative frequencies of visual impairment in demented cases and nondemented controls. Cohort analyses of correlation between visual acuity and cognitive functioning in demented cases. SETTING: Internal medicine clinics at two academically affiliated medical centers. PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-seven consecutively selected patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age with mild-to-moderate, clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (cases) and 87 nondemented controls matched to the cases by age, sex, and education. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The prevalence of visual impairment was higher in cases than in controls [unadjusted odds ratio for near-vision impairment = 2.7 (95% CI = 1.4, 5.2); unadjusted odds ratio for far-vision impairment = 2.1 (95% CI = 1.02, 4.3); odds ratios adjusted for family history of dementia, depression, number of medications, and hearing loss were 2.5 (95% CI = 1.1, 10.5) for near-vision impairment and 1.9 (95% CI = 0.8, 4.6) for far-vision impairment]. When further stratified by quartiles of visual acuity, no statistically significant "dose-response" relationship between vision impairment and dementia risk was observed. Among cases, the degree of visual impairment was significantly correlated with the severity of cognitive dysfunction for both near and far vision (adjusted ps less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Visual impairment is associated with both an increased risk and an increased clinical severity of Alzheimer's disease, but the increased risk may not be consistent with a progressive dose-response relationship. Further studies are needed to determine whether visual impairment unmasks and exacerbates the symptoms of dementia or is a marker of disease severity. 
Recurring catamenial pneumothorax treated with a Gn-RH analogue. We report a case of recurring catamenial pneumothorax with concurrent pelvic endometriosis. Thoracoscopy revealed a blue-like lesion on top of the dome of the right hemidiaphragm. Microscopic examination of biopsy specimens showed endometriosis. The patient was treated with a Gn-RH analogue and remains well without further evidence of pneumothorax after six months. 
Sixth nerve schwannomas. Report of two cases. Two cases of sixth cranial nerve schwannoma are presented with a review of four other cases from the literature. The clinical spectrum, neuroradiological findings, and surgical outcome of the six cases are discussed. There are two distinct clinical presentations for sixth cranial nerve schwannomas. Type I sixth nerve schwannomas present with sixth nerve palsy and diplopia and arise from the cavernous sinus. In contrast, type II sixth nerve schwannomas have a more severe presentation with obstructive hydrocephalus, raised intracranial pressure, sixth nerve palsy, and diplopia. This type arises along the course of the sixth cranial nerve in the prepontine area. Cavernous sinus involvement in either type may preclude total surgical excision and indicate an increase possibility for recurrence. 
Differentiation between hemangiomas and metastases of the liver with ultrafast MR imaging: preliminary results with T2 calculations. We studied the efficacy of T2 measurements at high field strength in distinguishing between liver hemangiomas and hepatic metastases when an ultrafast (single-excitation) MR imaging technique is used. Fourteen patients with known liver tumors were imaged in a 2.0-T prototype ultrafast MR scanner with a spin-echo (infinite TR and TE of 30-340 msec) pulse sequence. Each image was obtained with a total data acquisition time of 20 msec. T2 calculations for hepatic metastases (n = 6) showed a mean of 79.3 +/- 13.5 msec, whereas hemangiomas (n = 8) showed a T2 of 139.8 +/- 18.8 msec (p less than .0001). T2 values of lesions had a smaller relative standard deviation than previously reported, and the range of T2 values of hemangiomas (119-181 msec) and metastases (68-103 msec) did not overlap. Our preliminary results suggest that T2 calculations with ultrafast MR imaging may be useful for differentiating hemangiomas from metastases. We hypothesize that T2 values obtained from ultrafast MR images are more reliable than those obtained from conventional MR images, primarily because of the elimination of T1 information and effects of motion on image signal intensity. 
Cerebral circulation: humoral regulation and effects of chronic hypertension. New concepts have emerged in recent years concerning regulation of cerebral circulation. The purpose of this review is to summarize briefly several of these concepts. First, humoral mechanisms may have important effects on cerebral blood vessels and blood flow to choroid plexus. Recent evidence suggests that several vasoactive peptides may have major effects on fluid and ion balance in the brain by altering blood flow to the choroid plexus and possibly the production of cerebrospinal fluid. Second, chronic hypertension produces structural remodeling and hypertrophy of cerebral blood vessels and a shift in the relationship of cerebral blood flow to systemic blood pressure. Third, endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral arterioles to receptor and nonreceptor mediated agonists are impaired during chronic hypertension. Alterations in endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral arterioles during chronic hypertension appears to be due to release of an endothelium-derived contracting factor. 
Ischemic necrosis: a hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of spontaneously ruptured enterocystoplasty. Spontaneous enterocystoplasty rupture represents a devastating and potentially fatal late complication. Previously proposed mechanisms of rupture include catheter trauma, chronic infection, avulsion of adhesions between the bowel patch and peritoneum, and chronic overdistension with elevated intravesical pressures. We have witnessed this complication 4 times in 3 patients 5 weeks to 46 months postoperatively. Tissue specimens from 3 episodes in 2 patients with detubularized sigmoid enterocystoplasties were available for histological examination. All patients had a neurogenic bladder from myelomeningocele, all had an AMS800 artificial urinary sphincter and all had a documented history of chronic distension from inadequate emptying of the augmented bladder. At exploration, all of the ruptures were found within the bowel segment near the bladder apex in an area remote from the anastomotic line. In each case tissue specimens from the rupture site showed marked vascular congestion, intramural hemorrhage, abundant hemosiderin laden macrophages, myofiber atrophy and intravascular thrombi. These features are interpreted to reflect the sequelae of vascular compromise and ischemia. We propose that enterocystoplasty rupture results from ischemia, possibly due to chronic overdistension and subsequent vascular compromise. This mechanism may account for many of the previously reported cases of enterocystoplasty rupture. 
Prospective cohort study of prone sleeping position and sudden infant death syndrome. Studies of the link between prone sleeping position and sudden infant death syndrome have been criticised on grounds of recall bias and for not taking into account possible confounding effects. To avoid recall bias and to allow measurement of important biological factors a prospective cohort study of the cause of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is being conducted. The infants included are those at high risk of the syndrome as assessed by a perinatal score. Of the 3110 members of the cohort born between January, 1988, and end of March, 1990, 23 infants later died of SIDS. Sleep position information was available for 15 of these. Matched analysis to control for the confounding effects of infant birthweight and maternal age indicated that prone sleeping position was associated with an increased risk of SIDS (OR 4.47 95% Cl [1.30-15.43]). The findings are strengthened by the results of a concurrent retrospective case-control study of 42 SIDS cases in which the prone position was also associated with an increased risk of SIDS (unadjusted OR 3.45 [1.59-7.49]). 
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia with t(4;11) translocation after osteogenic sarcoma. The authors report a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with t(4;11) (q21;q23) occurring 9 months after treatment of osteogenic sarcoma. Cell surface marker and molecular analyses suggest early B lineage involvement. This is the first report, to the knowledge of the authors, of t(4;11) ALL arising after an osteogenic sarcoma. The observations of the authors support the possibility of a causal relationship between exposure to carcinogens and the occurrence of leukemia with t(4;11). 
Measuring cell proliferation. Histopathology is based on the interpretation of features of the microscopic image. In recent years, there has evolved interest in assessing quantifiable data from these images, with the intent of providing more precise diagnostic and prognostic information. Proliferation characteristics of tumors are among the most important of these data. Methods for measuring cell proliferation are reviewed. 
Miosis and internal ophthalmoplegia as a manifestation of partial seizures. We present a patient whose only physical manifestation of a partial sensory seizure was bilateral pupillary constriction and internal ophthalmoplegia. The onset and offset of each attack corresponded distinctly with an electroencephalographic discharge of the left temporo-occipital region. We propose involvement of a cortical pupillary constrictive center in the temporal-occipital area. 
Multiple renal neoplasms: a case of 3 histologically dissimilar primary tumors. A 69-year-old woman who presented with bilateral renal masses and gross hematuria was found to have 3 different primary renal neoplasms. She first underwent left partial nephrectomy for an oncocytoma and subsequently right radical nephroureterectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the pelvis. An incidental angiomyolipoma was found in the specimen. Deoxyribonucleic acid image analysis of all 3 tumors is presented. 
The beneficial effects of early dexamethasone administration in infants and children with bacterial meningitis. BACKGROUND. In experimental models of meningitis and in children with meningitis, dexamethasone has been shown to reduce meningeal inflammation and to improve the outcome of disease. METHODS. We conducted a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of dexamethasone therapy in 101 infants and children admitted to the National Children's Hospital, San Jose, Costa Rica, who had culture-proved bacterial meningitis or clinical signs of meningitis and findings characteristic of bacterial infection on examination of the cerebrospinal fluid. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either dexamethasone and cefotaxime (n = 52) or cefotaxime plus placebo (n = 49). Dexamethasone (0.15 mg per kilogram of body weight) was given 15 to 20 minutes before the first dose of cefotaxime and was continued every 6 hours thereafter for four days. RESULTS. The demographic, clinical, and laboratory profiles were similar for the patients in the two treatment groups. By 12 hours after the beginning of therapy, the mean opening cerebrospinal pressure and the estimated cerebral perfusion pressure had improved significantly in the dexamethasone-treated children but worsened in the children treated only with cefotaxime (controls). At 12 hours meningeal inflammation and the concentrations of two cytokines (tumor necrosis factor alpha and platelet-activating factor) in the cerebrospinal fluid had decreased in the dexamethasone-treated children, whereas in the controls the inflammatory response in the cerebrospinal fluid had increased. At 24 hours the clinical condition and mean prognostic score were significantly better among those treated with dexamethasone than among the controls. At follow-up examination after a mean of 15 months, 7 of the surviving 51 dexamethasone-treated children (14 percent) and 18 of 48 surviving controls (38 percent) had one or more neurologic or audiologic sequelae (P = 0.007); the relative risk of sequelae for a child receiving placebo as compared with a child receiving dexamethasone was 3.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.3 to 11.5). CONCLUSIONS. The results of this study, in which dexamethasone administration began before the initiation of cefotaxime therapy, provide additional evidence of a beneficial effect of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis. 
Intracerebral hemorrhage, cerebral infarction, and subdural hematoma after acute myocardial infarction and thrombolytic therapy in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction Study. Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II, pilot and clinical trial. In the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II pilot and clinical trial, 908 patients [326 (35.9%) in the pilot study and 582 (64.0%) in the randomized study] were treated with 150 mg recombinant tissue-type plasminogen (rt-PA) activator in combination with heparin and aspirin, and 3,016 patients [64 (2.1%) in the pilot study and 2,952 (97.9%) in the randomized study] were treated with 100 mg rt-PA in combination with heparin and aspirin. Adverse neurological events occurred in 23 patients treated with 150 mg rt-PA (2.5%) [nine cerebral infarctions (1.0%), 12 intracerebral hemorrhages (1.3%), and two subdural hematomas (0.2%)] and in 33 patients treated with 100 mg rt-PA (1.1%) [20 cerebral infarctions (0.7%), 11 intracerebral hemorrhages (0.4%), and two subdural hematomas (0.1%)]. The difference in adverse neurological events observed comparing the two rt-PA regimens was primarily due to a higher frequency of intracerebral bleeding among patients treated with 150 mg rt-PA (1.3% versus 0.4%, p less than 0.01). Patients with recent (within 6 months) histories of stroke were not eligible for the study, and patients with any history of cerebrovascular disease were declared ineligible early in the study. The small number of patients (89, or 2.3%) with any history of neurological disease, intermittent cerebral ischemic attacks, or stroke who were enrolled before the stricter eligibility criteria were imposed or on the basis of incomplete baseline information experienced an increased frequency of intracerebral hemorrhage compared with patients without such histories (3.4% versus 0.5%). Mortality at 6 weeks after presentation among 23 patients who had intracerebral hemorrhage was 47.8%. Intracerebral hemorrhage is a severe but infrequent complication of rt-PA therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The combined frequency of intracerebral hemorrhage, subdural hematoma, and cerebral infarction after treatment with 100 mg rt-PA is comparable to that observed in other trials with thrombolytic agents in acute myocardial infarction. 
High doses of recombinant alpha-interferon or gamma-interferon for chronic hepatitis C: a randomized, controlled trial. Chronic hepatitis C is often a progressive liver disease for which there is no satisfactory treatment. We studied the efficacy of recombinant alpha-interferon or gamma-interferon in the treatment of this disease in comparison with a control group. Thirty patients were randomly assigned to three groups. Ten patients received 7.5 MU alpha-interferon/m2 body surface three times weekly for 3 mo, then 5 MU/m2 for 3 mo and 2.5 MU/m2 for 6 mo. Ten patients were treated with gamma-interferon at a dose of 2 MU/m2 for 6 mo and the other 10 served as controls without treatment. The mean serum ALT levels and liver histological findings improved significantly only in the patients treated with alpha-interferon. No changes were observed in patients treated with gamma-interferon or in controls. Five of 10 patients treated with alpha-interferon had complete responses (mean ALT normal during therapy). After treatment ALT returned to pretreatment levels in two of 5 patients. The long-term response rate after alpha-interferon therapy was 30% at 18 mo. We conclude that alpha-interferon is effective in controlling disease activity in a portion of patients with chronic hepatitis C. High doses of alpha-interferon do not appear to add further benefit in the response rate or relapse rate. gamma-Interferon therapy is ineffective. 
Fluorescein angiographic risk factors for progression of diabetic retinopathy. ETDRS report number 13. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), a multicenter clinical trial sponsored by the National Eye Institute, one eye of each patient was assigned randomly to early photocoagulation and the other to deferral of photocoagulation (i.e., careful follow-up and initiation of photocoagulation only if high-risk proliferative retinopathy developed). This design allowed observation of the natural course of diabetic retinopathy in the initially untreated eye. Gradings of baseline stereoscopic fluorescein angiograms of these eyes were used to examine relationships of angiographic characteristics with each other, with retinopathy severity level and macular edema status graded from color photographs, and with risk of progression from nonproliferative to proliferative retinopathy during 1 to 5 years of follow-up. Fluorescein leakage (particularly diffuse), capillary loss and dilatation, and various arteriolar abnormalities were associated with retinopathy severity and with the likelihood of progression to proliferative retinopathy during follow-up. Severity of fluorescein leakage was strongly associated with macular edema. 
Headaches due to spontaneous internal carotid artery dissection magnetic resonance imaging evaluation and follow up. Spontaneous internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection is not an infrequent cause of headache and acute neurologic deficits in the younger population. Angiography has been the imaging modality of choice for both diagnosis and follow-up. The use of magnetic resonance imaging, (MRI), in conjunction with angiography, is described in three patients shown to have ICA dissection. Our clinical findings suggest that MRI may provide a less expensive, non-invasive, diagnostic and particularly a follow up modality in patients with headache and signs suggestive of ICA dissection. 
Midbrain vs. pontine medial longitudinal fasciculus lesions: the utilization of masseter and blink reflexes. Masseter (MR) and blink reflexes (BL) were investigated in 51 patients with internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) due to multiple sclerosis (28) and lacunar infarction (23). The MR was abnormal in 20 of 23 cases with bilateral INO and in 21 of 28 with unilateral INO. The R1 component of the BL (BL-R1) was abnormal in 7 of 23 patients with bilateral INO and 10 of 28 with unilateral INO. Combined MR and BL-R1 changes occurred in 8 of 28 cases with unilateral INO and 7 of 23 with bilateral INO. The findings provide evidence for a rostral/caudal localization of lesions within the medial longitudinal fasciculus causing INO on the basis of MR and BL-R1 abnormalities. An abnormality limited to MR suggests a midbrain location in 58.8% of patients while abnormal BL-R1 with or without an associated MR change suggests a rostral pontine location in 35.3%. 
Assessment of blood echogenicity as an alternative measure to erythrocyte sedimentation rate. OBJECTIVE--To determine the relation between erythrocyte sedimentation rate and blood echogenicity and whether measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate could be replaced by measurement of blood echogenicity in monitoring acute phase reactions. DESIGN--Simultaneous measurement of echogenicity of flowing blood and erythrocyte sedimentation rate in blood samples and comparison of results. SETTING--A radiological department in a university hospital. SUBJECTS--83 patients with a suspected venous thrombosis and 36 healthy volunteers. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Correlations between the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, packed cell volume, and echogenicity of flowing blood. RESULTS--Blood echogenicity correlated poorly with the packed cell volume, but strongly correlated with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (when the packed cell volume was within reference limits) (correlation coefficient = 0.73). Blood samples with a greatly raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate were highly echogenic. Only one of the 30 samples with an erythrocyte sedimentation rate below 10 mm in first hour had a higher echogenicity than the least echogenic sample of the 19 with a sedimentation rate above 30 mm in first hour. CONCLUSIONS--Echogenicity of flowing blood correlates with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and its measurement may compete with conventional methods for evaluating the long term changes in acute phase reactions. Also, it has the added advantage that non-invasive in vivo measurements of blood echogenicity may become possible. 
Is there a premorbid personality typical for Parkinson's disease? For decades clinicians have postulated a characteristic preexisting personality in patients who develop Parkinson's disease (PD). They are described as moralistic, law-abiding, conscientious, and averse to risk-taking. The limited personality surveys tend to be confirmatory, but most of the literature is anecdotal or replete with unprovable psychodynamic postulates. In addition to an apparent stability of marriages and lack of alcoholism, patients with PD are less likely than controls to be smokers. It has been suggested that nicotine and its byproducts are not actually protective against PD, and it could be postulated that higher-than-average intrinsic dopamine may facilitate addiction. Smoking for the patient who is later to develop PD may be particularly unrewarding. In addition, the postulated personality for PD may predispose to hard work, perspiration, and increased exposure to putative trace elements in the water supply. 
Headaches due to cerebrovascular disease. Subarachnoid hemorrhage causes sudden, severe headache and requires immediate medical and surgical diagnosis and treatment. A CT scan is the first choice for correct diagnosis. In order to prevent rebleeding, delays in treatment should be avoided. Intraparenchymal cerebral hemorrhage is now often recognized by means of CT scanning and sometimes is a cause of headache. Cerebellar hemorrhage commonly causes occipital headache and is an indication for immediate surgical intervention, although small cerebellar hemorrhages can be treated conservatively. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease is frequently accompanied by headache, but its etiology remains uncertain. Thrombosis of the cerebrovenous system is a less frequent cause of head pain than that of the arterial system, but it usually shows characteristic neurologic signs. Following carotid endarterectomy or superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass surgery, the patient may have moderate to severe unilateral headaches, probably as a result of platelet aggregation and serotonin release. 
Relapsing systemic infection due to Rhodococcus equi in a drug abuser seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus. A case of recurrent multisystemic infection due to Rhodococcus equi in a patient with antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) but without AIDS is reported. This case, which occurred in a woman with a history of alcohol and drug abuse, is, to our knowledge, the first such case described. The infection involved the lungs, kidneys, brain, and bloodstream. Despite several courses of therapy with antibiotics to which her isolates of R. equi were susceptible in vitro, the patient experienced multiple relapses before her death. On the basis of this case and a few others reported in HIV-infected patients, we recommend an initial antibiotic course at least 6-8 weeks in duration, and we suggest that combination antibiotic treatment be considered. We also suggest that infection with R. equi be included in the diagnostic criteria for AIDS. 
Preoperative insurance status influences postoperative complication rates for gastric bypass. One hundred morbidly obese patients who had gastric bypass surgery were studied to determine how various demographic and medical variables affected complication rates, weight loss, and reduction in comorbidities associated with obesity. During the follow-up period (range: 12 to 59 months), 42 patients developed at least 1 complication. Twenty-three patients developed postoperative medical complications, 9 developed psychiatric complications, and 24 developed complications related to food ingestion. No significant relationships were observed between outcome and age, sex, age of obesity onset, or associated medical disorders. Striking differences in outcome were noted, however, when patients were contrasted according to their preoperative insurance status. Patients dependent on medical assistance, social security disability, or workman's compensation (publicly funded group) (n = 40) developed significantly more medical and psychiatric complications than did those (n = 60) who had private medical insurance (p less than 0.02). Despite the higher complication rate, both groups had the same average weight loss (44.9 +/- 15.3 kg for the publicly funded group versus 43.1 +/- 12.9 kg for those with private insurance) and similar reductions in percent excess weight (66.0 +/- 18.4% versus 75.7 +/- 23.0%) during the first postoperative year. All patients also had similar reductions in medication requirements for hypertension, diabetes, and degenerative joint disease. Additionally, 45% of the publicly funded insurance group who either received public welfare (n = 26) or disability benefits (n = 14) preoperatively were able to attain either full-time or part-time employment postoperatively which allowed them to decrease their level of support (58% and 21%, respectively). Forty-six percent of women in the private insurance group who were not working outside the home also began part-time or full-time employment postoperatively. All patients who were working preoperatively continued to work. These data suggest that although the risks associated with gastric bypass surgery are greater in patients dependent on public funding, these patients benefit significantly from the surgery. 
Hemothorax as a complication following percutaneous renal biopsy. Percutaneous renal biopsy is a routine procedure with a low complication rate. We report a patient who developed shock and respiratory distress secondary to hemothorax following a fluoroscopically guided biopsy. 
Treatment of murine transitional cell carcinoma with intralesional interleukin 2 and murine interferon gamma. The antitumor effect of intralesionally administered recombinant interleukin-2, alone or in combination with recombinant interferon gamma was studied in murine transitional cell carcinoma, MBT2. In the initial prophylactic model treatment was started at day one at the site of tumor inoculation. Maximal and significant reduction in tumor volume occurred in groups receiving 4,000 units of recombinant interleukin 2 and 10(7) colony forming units Bacillus Calmette Guerin (p less than 0.00001 vs saline control). In the same experiment, a reduction in tumor incidence and increase in survival occurred in groups receiving 4,000 units of recombinant interleukin 2, 1,000 units of recombinant interleukin 2 plus 2,000 units of recombinant interferon gamma, as well as 10(7) colony forming units Bacillus Calmette Guerin relative to saline control (p less than 0.005). The dose-response effect of recombinant interleukin 2 alone was also tested in a model of an established transitional cell carcinoma. Intralesional injection treatments were initiated after tumors were palpable. Reduction in tumor volume was observed in the group receiving 8,000 units of recombinant interleukin 2 (p = 0.01 vs saline control), but no significant advantage in survival was noted. 
Muir-Torre syndrome associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency and cutaneous vasculitis. Report of a case with exacerbation of a cutaneous neoplasm during immunosuppressive therapy. We describe a patient with both Muir-Torre syndrome and alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. A keratoacanthoma developed after immunosuppressive therapy for necrotizing vasculitis. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of Muir-Torre syndrome associated with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. 
Assessment of coronary artery disease by thallium scan in type-1 diabetic uremic patients awaiting combined pancreas and renal transplantation. Twenty-five type-1 diabetic uremic patients (14 men, 11 women, mean age forty +/- eleven years, range, nineteen to sixty) were prospectively analyzed for coronary artery disease (CAD) by thallium scan (TLS) before synchronus pancreas and kidney transplantation. Duration of diabetes ranged from ten to thirty-two years (mean twenty-two +/- five). Fifteen patients (60%) were in dialysis from two to sixty months (mean twenty +/- eighteen). Advanced diabetic degenerative complications were present in all patients. Twenty exercise and five pharmacologic thallium scans were performed. Forty-four percent of patients (6 men, 5 women, mean age forty-two +/- eleven years, range, twenty-six to sixty) had a positive (reversible or permanent defects) TLS. In 2/11 cases, severe CAD required further cardiac investigations for therapeutic management decision. A statistical correlation with resting ECG nonspecific ST-segment and T-wave abnormalities was observed (p less than 0.05) despite the absence of angor in 8 of the 11 patients. On the contrary, no statistical correlations were found regarding high blood pressure, smoking, hypercholesterolemia, duration of diabetes, and duration of dialysis. In this particular diabetic population (young age, male/female ratio = 1.2) with high incidence of silent ischemia, resting ECG repolarization abnormalities, though predictive, were not specific or prognostic of CAD severity; in these cases, exercise and pharmacologic TLS, a noninvasive and sensitive cardiovascular test, may be of great interest in diagnosis of CAD, allowing adequate cardiac management before, during, and after pancreas transplantation. 
Surgical treatment of chronic otitis media and Meniere's syndrome. Meniere's symptom-complex in conjunction with chronic otitis media (COM) has occasionally been encountered in otologic practice. This study compares the effects of various surgical techniques on patients with COM and Meniere's syndrome, primarily on incapacitating vertigo. One group of patients with incapacitating vertigo received endolymphatic system drainage procedures, either endolymphatic sac surgery (83 patients) or cochleosacculotomy (12 patients) simultaneously with surgery for COM. Another group (14 patients) had surgery for COM only. A comparison of the results for vertigo control between the two approaches indicates a significant difference in success rate in favor of endolymphatic system drainage procedures (80% versus 20%). COM is regarded as one of the causes of endolymphatic hydrops (EH). The results of this study seem to indicate both 1. the likelihood of the cause-and-effect relationship between COM and EH, and 2. the effectiveness of endolymphatic shunting procedures on control of incapacitating vertigo, thus supporting the contentions of other authors with regard to pathogenesis and sac enhancement in patients with COM and Meniere's syndrome. 
Focal spared area in fatty liver simulating a mass. Scintigraphic evaluation. The characterization of focally spared areas in a fatty liver may at times be problematic. This report illustrates the unique diagnostic role that combined xenon-133/technetium-99m sulfur colloid scintigraphy can play in such cases. 
Effects of electrophysiologic testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator on left ventricular systolic function and diastolic filling. We investigated the effects of electrophysiologic testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD) on left ventricular systolic function and diastolic filling in 12 patients. Ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation was induced by programmed electrical stimulation and alternating-current, respectively. Patients were studied before and immediately after, 10 minutes after, and 1 hour after defibrillation by the AICD using M-mode, two-dimensional, and pulsed Doppler echocardiography. Immediately after defibrillation, increases were found in the peak early filling velocity (70 +/- 10 cm/sec to 84 +/- 24 cm/sec, p less than 0.01), peak early-to-atrial filling velocity ratio (1.05 +/- 0.21 to 1.29 +/- 0.26, p less than 0.005), and maximum rate of diastolic chamber enlargement (82 +/- 26 mm/sec to 102 +/- 44 mm/sec, p less than 0.05). These changes were not evident at 10 minutes and 1 hour. Cardiac output and ejection fraction were unchanged after defibrillation. Heart rate and diastolic filling time were unchanged. We conclude that electrophysiologic testing of the AICD does not impair left ventricular function in the immediate to 1-hour period after defibrillation. Left ventricular systolic function is unchanged and diastolic filling is enhanced. 
Post-endarterectomy headache and the role of the oculosympathetic system. A study was carried out on headache after carotid endarterectomy. A specific type of headache, similar in its characteristics to "cluster headache", occurred on the operative side in 30% of 54 patients, whereas no such headache occurred after extra-intracranial bypass or peripheral vascular surgery. This postoperative headache was not spontaneously reported by 56% of patients unless they were specifically asked about it. Pharmacological pupillary testing performed in 37 patients revealed that a decreased oculosympathetic activity (with or without adrenoceptor supersensitivity) was constantly associated with post-endarterectomy headache. Although this same abnormality was also observed in 54% of the patients without headache, a statistically significant (p less than 0.01) higher prevalence of decreased oculosympathetic responses was found in the patients with headache. The results suggest that damage to the sympathetic plexus due to the surgical procedure is involved in the development of postoperative "cluster-like" headache. 
Pouchitis--is it a wastebasket diagnosis? Pouchitis is a poorly defined syndrome that is unique to patients with an ileal reservoir. During a prospective follow-up review of 215 patients who underwent ileal pouch-anal anastomosis, pouchitis was diagnosed in 30 patients (14 percent). Based on the clinical course, two distinct patterns of pouchitis were recognized: patients who experienced two or fewer episodes (Group 1-18 patients) and patients who experienced at least three episodes (Group 2-12 patients). Histopathologic review of resected colons revealed a preponderance of indeterminate colitis in patients in Group 2 (58.3 percent) compared with patients in Group 1 (0 percent). In Group 1; 88.9 percent of patients responded to therapy with metronidazole. Only 25 percent of patients in Group 2 responded to metronidazole alone. Most patients in Group 2 required sulfasalazine, topical steroids, or both. Of the 30 patients with pouchitis, four (13.3 percent) had a distinct endoscopic pattern of distal inflammation. This subset of patients with short strip pouchitis was successfully treated with topical steroid preparations. The clinical differences suggest different causes of pouchitis in these two groups. 
Broca's aphasia following damage to Wernicke's area. For or against traditional aphasiology? Classic aphasiology has been challenged by studies that have employed cranial computed tomography to test predicted anatomic-behavioral correlations. We treated a patient who developed a classic Broca's aphasia but whose computed tomographic scan revealed damage to Wernicke's area, thus seeming to contradict the principles of traditional aphasiology. However, subsequent information obtained by magnetic resonance imaging, intracarotid amobarbital (Amytal) testing, and electrophysiologic studies, including cortical stimulation, demonstrated that the brain-behavior correlations in this patient can be understood in terms of the formulations of traditional aphasiology. 
Variations in length of stay and outcomes for six medical and surgical conditions in Massachusetts and California. OBJECTIVES.--To determine the extent to which interinstitutional variations in length of stay are explained by differences in patient characteristics and to determine whether patients in hospitals with shorter lengths of stay had worse outcomes. DESIGN.--We reviewed patients' medical records and surveyed patients between 3 and 12 months after hospital discharge using a questionnaire. SETTING.--Six teaching hospitals in California and Massachusetts. PATIENTS.--A cohort of 2484 selected patients who had been hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction or to rule out acute myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass graft surgery, total hip replacement, cholecystectomy, or transurethral prostatectomy. Between 73% and 84% of the patients with each condition completed a follow-up questionnaire. OUTCOME MEASURES.--In-hospital complications, deaths, length of stay, functional status after hospital discharge, readmission, and patient satisfaction with hospital care were analyzed. RESULTS.--Significant interinstitutional differences in length of stay were noted for all conditions except rule-out acute myocardial infarction. Statistical adjustment for case-mix differences accounted for most of the interinstitutional differences in length of stay for total hip replacement but explained little of the differences in the other conditions. When we controlled statistically for other predictors, length of stay did not have a significant impact on deaths, functional status after hospital discharge, the probability of readmission, or patient satisfaction with hospital care. CONCLUSION.--More research is needed to determine the medical practices that are related to variations in lengths of stay. Routinely available outcome data may help preserve quality in the face of efforts to decrease costs by effecting more standardized practices of care. 
Pancreaticobiliary ductal union. The main pancreatic duct and the common bile duct open into the second part of the duodenum alone or after joining as a common channel. A common channel of greater than 15 mm (an anomalous pancreaticobiliary duct) is associated with congenital cystic dilatation of the common bile duct and carcinoma of the gall bladder. Even a long common channel (greater than or equal to 8 mm) is associated with a higher frequency of carcinoma of the gall bladder. Gall stones smaller than the common channel and a long common channel predispose to gall stone induced acute pancreatitis. Separate openings for the two ductal systems predisposes to development of gall stones and alcohol induced chronic pancreatitis. The role of ductal union has also been investigated in primary sclerosing cholangitis and biliary atresia. 
The effect of valproic acid on plasma carnitine levels. Plasma total, free, and acyl carnitine levels were determined in four groups of children: (1) those treated with valproic acid as monotherapy (n = 43), (2) those treated with valproic acid plus other antiepileptics as polytherapy (n = 91), (3) those treated with other antiepileptic drugs alone (n = 43), and (4) normal patients (n = 89). The mean free carnitine level was significantly lower in both the valproic acid monotherapy (29.9 mumol/L) and polytherapy (21.4 mumol/L) groups compared with normal subjects (36.8 mumol/L); it was also significantly lower than that in patients treated with other antiepileptic drugs (36.7 mumol/L). Comparison of valproic acid polytherapy and monotherapy yielded significantly lower free carnitine levels in the polytherapy group. The ratios of acyl to free carnitine for monotherapy (0.41) and polytherapy (0.45) were significantly higher than that in the normal group (0.25). This study indicates that a general decrease in the carnitine pool should be anticipated in patients taking valproic acid polytherapy and, to a lesser degree, monotherapy. Carnitine levels in the group taking other drugs did not differ from normal. 
A critical review of the evidence supporting a relationship between impaired fibrinolytic activity and venous thromboembolism. We critically evaluated the evidence for an association between venous thromboembolism and impaired fibrinolytic activity, as determined by global tests of fibrinolytic activity or specific tests for tissue plasminogen activator and plasminogen activator inhibitor. A computer-assisted and manual search was performed to retrieve all articles that reported on fibrinolytic activity and venous thromboembolism. The strength of the evidence for an association was assessed by analysis of the design of individual studies with special attention directed to choice of controls and methods of diagnosis of venous thromboembolism. It is concluded that for patients with symptomatic thrombosis the published evidence does not prove an association between impaired fibrinolytic activity and increased risk of thrombosis. In contrast, for postoperative thrombosis there is good evidence for an association between impaired fibrinolytic activity measured either preoperatively or postoperatively and increased risk of postoperative thrombosis. Whether this association is causal or coincidental is unclear, since randomized clinical trials that used interventions to enhance fibrinolytic activity produced inconsistent results. 
Smoking, the oral contraceptive pill, and Crohn's disease. Both cigarette smoking and the oral contraceptive pill have been implicated as aggravating factors in Crohn's disease. Based upon the recent demonstration of multifocal gastrointestinal infarction in Crohn's disease, a possible pathogenic mechanism for this condition, we propose how smoking and the oral contraceptive pill may potentiate a tendency for focal thrombosis and hence exacerbate the activity of Crohn's disease. 
Auditory performance with simultaneous intracochlear multichannel stimulation. Different sound processing strategies are used in the various cochlear implant designs. This report presents auditory data on 35 patients implanted at the University of Utah from April 1984 to April 1989. A multichannel monopolar electrode system is inserted intracochlearly. During daily use and auditory performance testing, four electrodes receive simultaneous input. The incoming acoustic signal is amplified and routed to the different electrodes through a band-pass filter system. Mean pure-tone performances were: 500 Hz-29.6 +/- 9.4 dB; 1000 Hz-23.5 +/- 13.2 dB; 2000 Hz-25.4 +/- 9.6 dB; 4000 Hz-32.1 +/- 11.5 dB; and 6000 Hz-42.2 +/- 7.7 dB. Audio-only CID sentence testing showed 51.4% of patients scoring better than 60% and 40% scoring better than 80%. The percutaneous pedestal is well tolerated; patients have had the systems in place for 13 and 15 years. 
Effects of CO2 rebreathing on pulmonary mechanics in premature infants. The effects of hypercapnia produced by CO2 rebreathing on total pulmonary, supraglottic, and lower airway (larynx and lungs) resistance were determined in eight premature infants [gestational age at birth 32 +/- 3 (SE) wk, weight at study 1,950 +/- 150 g]. Nasal airflow was measured with a mask pneumotachograph, and pressures in the esophagus and oropharynx were measured with a fluid-filled or 5-Fr Millar pressure catheter. Trials of hyperoxic (40% inspired O2 fraction) CO2 rebreathing were performed during quiet sleep. Total pulmonary resistance decreased progressively as end-tidal PCO2 (PETCO2) increased from 63 +/- 23 to 23 +/- 15 cmH2O.l-1.s in inspiration and from 115 +/- 82 to 42 +/- 27 cmH2O.l-1.s in expiration between room air (PETCO2 37 Torr) and PETCO2 of 55 Torr (P less than 0.05). Lower airway resistance (larynx and lungs) also decreased from 52 +/- 22 to 18 +/- 14 cmH2O.l-1.s in inspiration and from 88 +/- 45 to 30 +/- 22 cmH2O.l-1.s in expiration between PETCO2 of 37 and 55 Torr, respectively (P less than 0.05). Resistance of the supraglottic airway also decreased during inspiration from 7.2 +/- 2.5 to 3.6 +/- 2.5 cmH2O.l-1.s and in expiration from 7.6 +/- 3.3 to 5.3 +/- 4.7 cmH2O.l-1.s at PETCO2 of 37 and 55 Torr (P less than 0.05). The decrease in resistance that occurs within the airway in response to inhaled CO2 may permit greater airflow at any level of respiratory drive, thereby improving the infant's response to CO2. 
Acute fetal ductal occlusion in lambs. To assess fetal right ventricular and hemodynamic responses to acute occlusion of the ductus arteriosus, the pulmonary pressure, right and left ventricular output, and right ventricular dimensions of five fetal lambs were measured with simultaneous echocardiographic monitoring. Ductal occlusion resulted in a rise in pulmonary arterial pressure, a decrease in right ventricular output of 68%, an increase in left ventricular output of 18%, and a fall in combined cardiac output of 34%. The right ventricular systolic dimension increased, and the shortening fraction decreased from 0.41 to 0.14. Tricuspid regurgitation started within two heartbeats after ductal occlusion and resolved as soon as the occlusion was released. Acute fetal ductal occlusion imposes a marked increase in the right ventricular afterload, resulting in reversible triscuspid regurgitation. 
Importance of RAA system and the treatment of patients with ACE inhibition after myocardial infarction. There is activation of the renin angiotensin system after both complicated and uncomplicated myocardial infarction. Angiotensin II increases myocardial oxygen consumption whilst reducing coronary flow and is also directly toxic to the myocardium. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors produce beneficial haemodynamic and neuroendocrine changes in patients with acute left ventricular failure, and may have a role in selected patients with cardiogenic shock. There is evidence to suggest that they might prevent the development of late cardiac failure by limiting the extent of post infarction ventricular dilation. Further research is necessary to define their role in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. 
Paraproteinemic corneal deposits in plasma cell myeloma. We treated two patients who had IgG-kappa-light chain monoclonal gammopathy with partially crystalline and partially amorphic corneal deposits. Impairment of vision made keratoplasty necessary for each patient. Histologic examination of the corneal specimens showed deposits that stained positively for Masson's trichrome in all corneal cells. Immunohistochemical tests identified these deposits as IgG-kappa-light chain immunoglobulin fragments. Electron microscopy showed intracellular, rhomboid-shaped deposits enveloped by a membrane. The same deposits appeared in the conjunctival epithelium, within subconjunctival fibrocytes, and in the plasma cells of the bone marrow. Immunoelectrophoresis showed IgG-kappa-light chain fragments in the blood serum, the lacrimal film, and the aqueous humor. This suggests that the intracellular immunoglobulin fragments may have entered the corneal and conjunctival epithelium by way of the lacrimal film, the keratocytes by way of the corneo-scleral limbus vasculature, and the endothelial cells from the aqueous humor. 
The necessary length of hospital stay for chronic pulmonary disease. OBJECTIVE.--To determine the necessary length of stay for patients admitted to the hospital with an exacerbation of chronic pulmonary disease and to compare this with the length of stay assigned by the diagnosis related group system. DESIGN.--A cohort of patients were followed up prospectively after hospital admission to determine when complications, critical incidents, and the need for monitoring occurred. The medically derived necessary lengths of stay were statistically compared with the lengths of stay assigned by the diagnosis related group. Clinical factors were used to predict long vs short necessary lengths of stay. SETTING.--Two acute care hospitals: one was the principal and the other a major community teaching hospital. PATIENTS.--A consecutive sample of 83 patients who were 45 years of age or older and who required admission for treatment of chronic pulmonary disease. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--The occurrence and time of complications, critical interventions, and monitoring. RESULTS.--After 6 days in the hospital, 90% of patients were free of complications or the need for monitoring. However, 16 days elapsed before 90% of patients had been discharged from the hospital. The length of stay that was considered necessary for care averaged 6.9 days; the actual mean length of stay was 8.7 days. The correlation between each patient's ideal length of stay and the length of stay assigned by the diagnosis related group was low and was not statistically significant. Three clinical variables at the time of admission (high PCO2 levels, symptoms that were present for more than 1 day, and antibiotic treatment) were associated with the need for longer hospital stays. CONCLUSIONS.--The medically required length of stay for patients with an exacerbation of chronic pulmonary disease was between 6 and 7 days, on average. This length of stay, which was based on clinical events, differs from the length of stay that was calculated as a statistical norm by the diagnosis related group system. Clinical characteristics may help to identify patients who require a longer length of stay. 
Isoenzymes of alkaline phosphatase in epileptic patients receiving carbamazepine monotherapy. The effects of carbamazepine monotherapy were investigated in 20 female and 21 male epileptic patients to determine whether treatment would induce an increase in serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, a known effect of many anticonvulsant drugs. Serum total ALP activity was increased in nine out of the 41 patients (22%), serum bone ALP activity was increased in 10 (24%), and serum non-bone ALP activity was increased in three (7%). There was no significant difference when the mean of the patients' serum total ALP was compared with that of the controls. Twenty per cent of the patients with increased serum bone ALP had normal serum total ALP, indicating that increased serum bone isoenzyme activity may precede an increase in the total enzyme activity. This should be considered when interpreting results of increased total ALP in epileptic patients. 
Adenocarcinoma of the prostate: biopsy to whole mount. Denver VA experience. Clinical understaging abounds in adenocarcinoma of the prostate. The preoperative prostate-specific antigen is not useful in preoperative staging, although enzymatic acid phosphatase elevation is associated with positive nodes in two-thirds of patients. Whole mount evaluation of radical prostatectomy specimens reveals tumor multicentricity in more than half the patients and tumor extension beyond the prostatic capsule in the majority of patients. A significant number of patients have a final tumor grade higher than that initially assigned. Capsule penetration by tumor is a factor of tumor grade as is volume. 
Drug-induced esophagitis. Drug-induced esophagitis is being recognized increasingly in the past few years. We have reviewed 175 cases with a view to classifying this disease based on pathology. Drug-induced esophageal injury tends to occur at the anatomical site of narrowing, with the middle third behind the left atrium predominating. The disease is classified broadly into two groups. The first group is transient and self-limiting, as exemplified by tetracycline- and emepronium-induced injury (57.3%). The second is the persistent esophagitis group, often with stricture with two distinct entities: 1) patients on nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents whose injury is aggravated by gastroesophageal reflux (26.2%) (reflux aggravated), and 2) patients with potassium chloride and quinidine sulfate-induced injury (16.2%) (persisting drug injury). We report a case that highlights the pathophysiology (delayed transit, persisting potassium within the stricture) of this type of injury which is not reflux aggravated. 
Cervical human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid and cytologic evaluations in gynecologic outpatients. We studied the prevalence and cytologic manifestations of human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid among 2668 gynecologic outpatients. The study population consisted of 1573 women who came into the emergency room, 623 women from an abortion clinic who were seen because of induced first-trimester abortion, and 472 women who had been referred to a colposcopy clinic because of an abnormal Papanicolaou smear finding. A dot blot technique was used for the detection of human papillomavirus types 6/11, 16/18, and 31/33/35. The prevalence of human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid was 4.4% in the emergency room population, 8.8% in the abortion clinic population, and 31.4% in the colposcopy clinic population. Human papillomavirus type 16/18 was most prevalent (3.5%), followed by human papillomavirus type 31/33/35 (3.1%), and human papillomavirus type 6/11 was least prevalent (2.1%). Of all unselected human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid-positive women who were enrolled from the emergency room or from the abortion clinic, 73% had normal cytologic evaluations. Twenty-five percent had benign atypia, and 2% had dyskaryotic changes. No human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid type-specific differences were detected in the distribution of cytologic atypias. 
Gastrointestinal lipoma and malignancies. Twenty gastrointestinal lipomata in 18 patients are reviewed: 15 located in the colon, 3 in the distal ileum, one in the duodenum, and one in the stomach. They were found most frequently in European-born, elderly women and presented with variable abdominal symptomatology. Four lipomata were removed during endoscopy, the remainder at laparotomy, partial colectomy being performed in 10 cases. All, except 2 subserosal types, were located in the submucosa, and their average size was 2.7 cm diameter. Microscopically, none showed true encapsulation, and all were composed of mature fat cells without cellular atypia. In spite of nonspecific changes at endoscopy, one-half of the cases showed, on microscopic examination, atrophy of the overlying glands and a prominent eosinophilic and/or lymphoplasmocytic infiltration of the lamina propria. Two large subserosal lipomata were associated with Crohn's disease. In addition, in 39% of cases, malignant tumours, either single or double, were present in the gastrointestinal tract or elsewhere. Gastrointestinal "lipomata" are located in the sites of normal fatty infiltration in the elderly; these growths could be a local aging or reactive process of the intestinal wall rather than true neoplasms without any potential malignancy. However, coexistent malignancies should be carefully searched for in elderly patients with colonic lipoma. 
Clinicopathologic observations in essential tremor: report of six cases. Essential tremor (ET) is the most common pathologic tremor, but only eight cases have been studied pathologically. We report detailed clinical and neuropathologic studies of six additional patients. We did not find any neuropathologic lesions that might be specific for ET. Moreover, there were no abnormalities of the substantia nigra consistent with Parkinson's disease. The neuropathologic substrate of ET remains unknown. 
Ossifying fibroma in the sylvian fissure: case report. A rare case of an ossifying fibroma that developed in the sylvian fissure is reported here. During surgery, branches of the middle cerebral artery were encased in osseous tumor. The encased branches were divided and reanastomosed after the mass was removed. Postoperative angiograms demonstrated patency of the anastomosed arteries and a postoperative magnetic resonance imaging scan revealed no infarction distal to the arterial anastomoses. The authors recommend division and anastomosis of the encased arteries rather than partial removal of tumor from around the encased arteries, resulting in residual tumor being left behind. 
Neurological and neuropathological sequelae of correction of chronic hyponatremia. The effect of correction of chronic hyponatremia at different rates was studied in 91 rats maintained at a plasma [Na+] of 112 +/- 1 mmol/liter for 19 +/- 1 days. Hyponatremia was corrected into normal ranges (140 to 145 mmol/liter) using three different methods. Rats corrected by water restriction achieved normal plasma [Na+] by 2.1 +/- 0.2 day and had a maximal (4 hr) correction rate of 1.0 +/- 0.1 mmol/liter.hr; rats corrected by water diuresis achieved normal plasma [Na+] by 1.6 +/- 0.1 day and had a maximal correction rate of 2.8 +/- 0.2 mmol/liter.hr; rats corrected by hypertonic saline infusion achieved normal plasma [Na+] by 5.4 +/- 0.3 hr and had a maximal correction rate of 5.7 +/- 0.4 mmol/liter.hr. A fourth control group was not corrected. No demyelinative lesions were found in the brains from the uncorrected rats, whereas the occurrence of such lesions in the brains of the corrected rats was highly correlated with the maximal rate of increase in plasma [Na+] (r = 0.68, P less than 0.001), and to a lesser degree with the magnitude of the increase in plasma [Na+] over the first 24 hours of correction (r = 0.41, P less than 0.001). Brain myelinolysis was first observed in animals whose maximal (4 hr) rate of correction exceeded 1.75 mmol/liter.hr, and the incidence of demyelination increased progressively in rats with more rapid rates of correction. Similarly, myelinolysis was first observed in rats whose magnitude of correction at 24 hours exceeded 16 mmol/liter and also increased in rats with larger 24 hour magnitudes of correction. 
Changes in standard electrocardiographic ST-segment elevation predictive of successful reperfusion in acute myocardial infarction. The ability of the electrocardiographic ST segment to predict successful reperfusion after thrombolytic therapy remains controversial. To evaluate whether angiographically determined reperfusion could be predicted from changes in ST-segment elevation, the sum of ST-segment elevation in affected leads of the electrocardiogram was compared before and after thrombolytic therapy in 53 patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Reperfusion status of the infarct-related artery was determined angiographically less than 8 hours from onset of symptoms. According to the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction trial (TIMI) criteria, 33 patients had successful reperfusion (TIMI grade 2 to 3 flow) after thrombolytic therapy and 20 patients did not (TIMI grade 0 to 1 flow). Logistic multiple regression analysis showed that the proportional value for the shift in the sum of ST elevation, termed the "% ST change," was more strongly associated with reperfusion than the absolute measured difference in millimeters (chi-square = 11.34 vs 9.22). The entire spectra of sensitivities and specificities were determined to identify a level of the percent ST change with simultaneous high sensitivity and specificity. A 20% decrease in ST elevation provided such a level (88% sensitivity, 80% specificity). The positive and negative predictive values of a 20% decrease in ST elevation were 88 and 80%, respectively. These results suggest that a decrease of only 20% in the sum of ST elevation in the standard electrocardiogram after thrombolytic therapy is a useful noninvasive predictor of reperfusion status in patients with evolving AMI. 
Hypersensitivity myocarditis. Autopsy tissue specimens of 69 cases of hypersensitivity myocarditis were studied to determine drug association, spectrum of histologic findings, distribution of infiltrates, and correlation between degree of infiltrates and cardiac symptoms. Hypersensitivity myocarditis was defined by the presence of eosinophils, a mixed lymphohistiocytic infiltrate along natural planes of separation, and an absence of fibrosis or granulation tissue in areas of infiltrate. Commonly implicated drugs were methyldopa, hydrochlorothiazide, ampicillin, furosemide, digoxin, tetracycline, aminophylline, phenytoin, benzodiazepines, and tricyclic antidepressants. Histiocytes composed the predominant cell type (in addition to eosinophils and lymphocytes). Lymphocytes were predominantly T cells in 12 cases studied immunohistochemically. Small foci of myocyte necrosis were present in 37 cases, and they correlated with the degree of infiltrate. A nonnecrotizing vasculitis was present in 28 cases. The right ventricle was involved in all but three cases. Cardiac arrhythmias or unexplained death occurred in 29 patients and did not correlate with the degree of myocardial infiltrate or presence of necrosis. Eosinophils were present in the livers of 30 of 58 patients, and their presence correlated with the degree of cardiac infiltration. A causative association between histologic findings and drugs is difficult to prove because of the common usage of many of the drugs implicated, multiple drug use, and the absence of clinical criteria of hypersensitivity. Symptoms do not appear related to the degree of infiltrate. In more than half the cases, infiltrates may be missed by endomyocardial biopsy due to focality of lesions. 
A phase I, II study of high-dose 5-fluorouracil and high-dose leucovorin with low-dose phosphonacetyl-L-aspartic acid in patients with advanced malignancies. Twenty-eight patients with refractory advanced malignancies were treated with a 24-hour infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV), and N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartic acid (PALA) weekly. Twenty-seven patients were evaluable to assess toxicity and antitumor activity. The PALA was administered as an intravenous bolus over 15 minutes at a fixed dose (250 mg/m2) 24 hours before the start of the 5-FU and leucovorin infusions. Initially the dose of 5-FU was 750 mg/m2; this was increased incrementally to 2600 mg/m2. The LV was administered in a fixed dose of 500 mg/m2 concurrently with the 5-FU over a 24-hour period. This regimen was repeated weekly. Diarrhea, stomatitis, nausea, and vomiting were among the dose-limiting toxicities. Others were hand-foot syndrome, hair loss of the scalp and eyelashes, overall weakness, rhinitis, and chemical conjunctivitis. The maximum tolerated dose of 5-FU in this combination and schedule was 2600 mg/m2. Seven of 14 patients treated with 2600 mg/m2 were able to tolerate the chemotherapy on a weekly basis without interruption. The other seven patients required dose reductions, but most received 5-FU at a dose of 2100 mg/m2. Twenty-three of 27 patients were treated previously. Eight patients had a partial response; five of these were treated previously. A complete response was observed in one patient with pancreatic carcinoma, previously untreated. The overall response rate for patients treated with 2100 or 2600 mg/m2 of 5-FU was nine of 18 patients (50%). Three of four previously untreated patients with pancreatic cancer responded to this treatment (two responded partially, and one had a complete response). One of three heavily pretreated patients with non-small cell lung cancer had a partial response as did a patient with breast cancer. Four of ten patients with colorectal cancer responded to the treatment (four partial responses), of whom three had been treated previously. 
Endoscopic removal of inflammatory fibroid polyps of the stomach. Three cases of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyp removed by endoscopic polypectomy are reported. All lesions were located in the gastric antrum or prepyloric region, and their depth was restricted to the submucosa. The correct diagnosis was obtained, and the digestive symptoms disappeared after polypectomy. In contrast to observations in previous reports, we believe these lesions are suitable for removal by endoscopic means, provided they are small in size and strictly submucosal in location. 
Meningiomas of the lateral skull base: neurotologic manifestations and patterns of recurrence. The eradication of basicranial meningiomas by traditional surgical techniques is often hindered by neoplastic entanglement with critical neurovascular structures. Apparent, complete tumor resection is frequently followed by extensive, yet clinically silent, recurrent disease with local infiltration of bone, cranial nerves, and brain. Fifty-five cases of sphenoid wing or parasellar meningioma were analyzed to identify clinical manifestations suggestive of early tumor recurrence. Regrowth patterns were then defined according to preoperative radiographic and intraoperative surgical findings. Medial tumor regrowth, involving the cavernous sinus, caused neurapraxia of cranial nerves III, IV, or VI, with associated diplopia or ophthalmoplegia. Inferior (caudal) regrowth of disease involved the infratemporal fossa, pterygomaxillary space, or paranasal sinuses by bony erosion of the middle cranial fossa floor or through natural anatomic foramina and fissures. Such inferior extension was manifested clinically by facial hypesthesia, trismus, and referred otalgia caused by trigeminal nerve involvement and by autophony or serous otitis media related to eustachian tube obstruction. Posterior tumor regrowth occurred along the petrous bone and horizontal carotid canal, resulting in internal auditory meatus erosion and cerebellopontine angle extension with associated tinnitus, hearing loss, unsteadiness, and occasional facial twitching. While the clinical and radiographic evaluations of any patient with a suspected recurrent basicranial meningioma are critical in planning the method and magnitude of reoperation, an understanding of potential recurrence patterns can be used in devising more extensive, combined approaches that may allow complete tumor extirpation at the initial surgical intervention. 
Therapeutic defibrination with ancrod does not protect canine myocardium from reperfusion injury. The purpose of this study was to determine whether normal fibrinogen contributes to the development of myocardial reperfusion injury by acting as a substrate in vivo for neutrophil adhesion. This was tested in a dog model of acute myocardial infarction that used pentobarbital anesthetized dogs subjected to 90 min regional myocardial ischemia and 5 h reperfusion. Dogs were treated with 1 unit/kg Ancrod (venom from the Malayan pit viper, Agkistrodon rhodostoma) or vehicle i.v. 60 min after left circumflex coronary artery occlusion. Therapeutic defibrination was verified in Ancrod-treated dogs by measurements of clottable fibrinogen, alpha-2 antiplasmin and plasminogen, by the activated partial thromboplastin time and by immunoelectrophoresis. Fibrinogen was depleted to below detectable limits of the assay (less than 0.05 mg/ml) after treatment with Ancrod. The defibrination effect was accomplished by the expected activation of the fibrinolytic system: alpha-2 antiplasmin was decreased by 10% and plasminogen activity was decreased by 30% with Ancrod treatment. There were no measureable differences between the two treatment groups in heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure, rate pressure product or circumflex coronary blood flow throughout the 90 min of regional ischemia or during the 5 h of reperfusion. The relative severity of ischemia between the two treatment groups was similar when assessed with radiolabeled microsphere measurement of myocardial blood flow. The accumulation of neutrophils (measured by myeloperoxidase activity) within the myocardium after reperfusion was not reduced by prior depletion of fibrinogen. 
Presence of PAF-acether in stool of patients with pouch ileoanal anastomosis and pouchitis. Platelet-activating factor is an endogenous phospholipid produced by a wide variety of inflammatory cells. Platelet-activating factor induces severe pathological changes in various organs and, among numerous potent effects, causes bowel necrosis. Pouchitis is a poorly understood complication of ileoanal pouch anastomosis which occurs in patients who undergo surgery for ulcerative colitis. The aim of this study was to measure ileal or fecal platelet-activating factor and lyso platelet-activating factor contents in normal volunteers (n = 12), in patients with terminal ileostomy (n = 7), and in patients with ileoanal anastomosis (n = 15) (8 patients have pouchitis defined by the presence of ulcerations on the reservoir). Fecal samples were processed and assessed for platelet-activating factor by platelet aggregation assay. The aggregating material was further characterized as platelet-activating factor by the following: inhibition of the platelet aggregation it induced by specific platelet-activating factor receptor antagonist (BN 52021; IHB, Le Plessis Robinson, France); abolition of platelet aggregation after incubation with phospholipase A2 but not with lipase A1; and retention time on high-performance liquid chromatography. Stool platelet-activating factor content (in nanograms per gram of stool, mean +/- 1SD) was significantly increased in patients with pouchitis (22.2 +/- 16 ng/g) compared with patients with normal reservoir (1.59 +/- 0.63 ng/g, P less than 0.01), terminal ileostomy (0.59 +/- 0.43 ng/g, P less than 0.01), and healthy controls (0 +/- 0 ng/g of stool, P less than 0.001). Lyso platelet-activating factor (nanograms per gram of stool) was increased in patients with pouchitis (10,704 +/- 5499 ng/g) compared with patients with normal reservoir (4721 +/- 4549 ng/g of stool, P less than 0.05), terminal ileostomy (3042 +/- 4019 ng/g, P less than 0.02), and healthy volunteers (128 +/- 107 ng/g, P less than 0.001). In patients with ileoanal anastomosis and pouchitis, increased platelet-activating factor production could be implicated in the inflammation and ulcerations observed in the reservoir. 
Chronic perineal pain related to sacral meningeal cysts. Chronic perineal pain is an often encountered problem that is difficult to evaluate. Based on a series of 17 patients in whom urological, gynecological, and anorectal pathology was excluded, the authors compared magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with computed tomographic (CT) scan with myelography in the investigation of chronic perineal pain. After a clinical neurological examination, patients underwent radiodiagnostic imaging of both techniques. Thirteen patients (76%) had one or more sacral meningeal cysts (MC) on MRI scan, whereas CT scan with myelography of the lumbar and sacral region revealed 7 patients (41%) with sacral MC. Sacral MC may be the etiology of chronic perineal pain in many instances, and MRI scan appears to be superior to CT scan with myelography in demonstrating sacral MC. Ten patients with sacral MC were operated on with moderate to excellent results 6 months after operation. Early postoperative results are encouraging, but further follow-up and larger series are required. 
Treatment of posterior urethral strictures with a titanium urethral stent. A total of 5 patients with recurrent posterior urethral strictures underwent endoscopic placement of an expandable endourethral stent made of titanium. Patient age ranged from 17 to 66 years (mean age 42.6 years). Followup ranged from 13 to 20 months (mean 14.1 months). Of the patients 4 presently have unobstructed voiding with no incontinence. To date no side effects have been directly related to the stents and no incrustations or calculi have formed. Our preliminary study supports the use of titanium urethral stents as an alternative form of treatment for selected urethral strictures. 
Low-dose aspirin therapy for chronic stable angina. A randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of low-dose aspirin in the primary prevention of myocardial infarction among patients with chronic stable angina. DESIGN: A randomized, double-blind, trial. PATIENTS: The study included 333 men with baseline chronic stable angina but with no previous history of myocardial infarction, stroke, or transient ischemic attack who were enrolled in the Physicians' Health Study, a trial of aspirin among 22,071 male physicians. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive alternate-day aspirin therapy (325 mg) or placebo and were followed for an average of 60.2 months for the occurrence of myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death. RESULTS: During follow-up, 27 patients had confirmed myocardial infarctions; 7 were among the 178 patients with chronic stable angina who received aspirin therapy and 20 were among the 155 patients who received placebo (relative risk, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.14 to 0.63; P = 0.003). While simultaneously controlling for other cardiovascular risk factors in a proportional hazards model, an overall 87% risk reduction was calculated (relative risk, 0.13; CI, 0.04 to 0.42; P less than 0.001). For the subgroup of patients with chronic stable angina but no previous coronary bypass surgery or coronary angioplasty, an almost identical reduction in the risk for myocardial infarction was found (relative risk, 0.14; CI, 0.04 to 0.56; P = 0.006). Of 13 strokes, 11 occurred in the aspirin group and 2 in the placebo group (relative risk, 5.4; CI, 1.3 to 22.1; P = 0.02). No stroke was fatal, but 4 produced some long-term impairment of function. One stroke, in the aspirin group, was hemorrhagic. CONCLUSION: Our data indicated that alternate-day aspirin therapy greatly reduced the risk for first myocardial infarction among patients with chronic stable angina, a group of patients at high risk for cardiovascular death (P less than 0.001). Although our results for stroke were based on small numbers, they suggested an apparent increase in frequency of stroke with aspirin therapy; this finding requires confirmation in randomized trials of adequate sample size. 
Haemopericardium and cardiac tamponade complicating pulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis. A case of pulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis complicated by haemopericardium and cardiac tamponade is reported. This was successfully managed by creating a subdiaphragmatic extraperitoneal window. 
Feasibility of epidural morphine for postoperative analgesia in a small community hospital. The first 6-mo experience of a two-physician APS using primarily epidural morphine in a community hospital is presented. After-hours anesthesia coverage was from home. The only monitoring was by nursing service observation. Complications occurred at incidences comparable to larger studies. Using the precautions outlined in the text, complications were appropriately diagnosed and treated despite the lack of 24-h in-house anesthesia coverage. 
Pain and impairment beliefs in chronic low back pain: validation of the Pain and Impairment Relationship Scale (PAIRS). Few validated instruments are available to assess beliefs and attitudes that patients have regarding pain, or ability to function despite discomfort. The Pain and Impairment Relationship Scale (PAIRS) was developed to tap these important beliefs and attitudes in chronic pain patients. Preliminary data indicate that the PAIRS is internally consistent and significantly related to impairment in a highly selected pain clinic sample of patients, including some chronic low back pain patients. The present study was designed to extend the validation of the PAIRS to a more general sample of chronic benign low back pain patients. Furthermore, additional tests supported the discriminant, convergent and divergent validity, as well as the reliability and relative independence from favorable self-report response bias of the PAIRS, by respectively demonstrating that: (1) the impairment beliefs assessed with the PAIRS were more prominent in chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients than in matched non-pain, healthy controls; (2) scores on the PAIRS were significantly related to measures of physical impairment, but not to physicians ratings of disease severity; (3) the impairment beliefs assessed with the PAIRS are readily distinguishable from cognitive distortions and emotional distress; (4) PAIRS scores for chronic low back pain patients are relatively consistent over time; and (5) PAIRS scores are not significantly associated with measures of favorable self-report response bias. We conclude that the PAIRS has demonstrated at least preliminary utility for applications by researchers and clinicians interested in chronic pain. 
Confirmation of the efficacy of hepatic tissue iron index in differentiating genetic haemochromatosis from alcoholic liver disease complicated by alcoholic haemosiderosis. The hepatic tissue iron index proposed by Bassett et al was evaluated in 35 patients with homozygous genetic haemochromatosis, 67 patients with alcoholic liver disease, and 18 patients with other forms of chronic liver disease with and without cirrhosis. In patients with cirrhosis hepatic tissue iron concentration reliably differentiated alcoholic liver disease from genetic haemochromatosis. Although mean iron concentration was greater in patients with prefibrotic haemochromatosis than in those with prefibrotic alcoholic liver disease, some overlap occurred and complete differentiation of the two conditions was not possible. This overlap was particularly evident in some young patients with haemochromatosis in whom the tissue iron concentration grade fell in the range commonly seen in alcoholic haemosiderosis. Inability to differentiate early genetic haemochromatosis from alcoholic liver disease complicated by haemosiderosis was also a problem with standard Perls's staining. When the hepatic tissue iron index was calculated (hepatic tissue iron concentration/patient's age in years), clear differentiation of genetic haemochromatosis from both alcoholic liver disease and other forms of chronic liver disease was obtained in both cirrhotic and precirrhotic patients. This study confirms that the hepatic tissue iron index is a useful means of differentiating patients with genetic haemochromatosis from those with alcoholic liver disease. We suggest that biochemical estimation of tissue iron concentration and calculation of the tissue iron index in all patients in whom genetic haemochromatosis is a possible diagnosis will reduce the likelihood of misdiagnosing this as alcoholic liver disease. 
Intralesional interferon gamma treatment for keloids and hypertrophic scars. Keloids and hypertrophic scars are characterized by excessive collagen formation. Interferon gamma is a lymphokine that can down-regulate collagen synthesis in vitro and in vivo and, therefore, has potential therapeutic benefit in the management of abnormal scars. Intralesional scar injections of interferon gamma were performed to determine the tolerance toxicity and to obtain preliminary evidence for the efficacy of this treatment in the management of hypertropic and keloid lesions. All scars decreased in linear dimensions and flattened out. Five of 10 scars studied decreased at least 50% in linear dimensions. Interferon gamma can safely be administered intralesionally once per week up to a dosage of 0.05 mg for 10 weeks with no serious toxic effects. The commonest reported side effect was a mild headache. 
Recurrent spinal cord tethering by sacral nerve root following lipomyelomeningocele surgery. Case report. A 21-year-old woman had recurrent progressive weakness/hypesthesia and pain in both lower extremities. At the age of 5 and 19 years, she had undergone surgical resection of a lipomyelomeningocele at L5-S1. Surgical exploration revealed that the cord was tethered and pulled over to the side by an excessively short right S-1 nerve root. The contralateral L-5 and S-1 nerve roots were markedly stretched. Division of the right S-1 nerve root resulted in prompt disappearance of pain in the lower extremities and improvement in neurological function. 
Postoperative deficits and functional recovery following removal of tumors involving the dominant hemisphere supplementary motor area. The supplementary motor area (SMA) is a region located within each cerebral hemisphere at the posterior mesial border of the frontal lobe adjacent to the falx. The functional significance of this area has been somewhat unclear, and information regarding its influence on motor output has largely been based on evoked responses to direct stimulation in primates and humans. In this series of patients with primary and metastatic tumors involving the dominant hemisphere SMA, a distinct pattern of postoperative deficits and recovery has emerged which emphasizes the role of this critical area in the initiation of motor activity, including speech. Based upon this analysis, ablation of this region after first identifying the primary motor cortex may be accomplished without risk of permanent loss of motor activity or speech function, despite the initial severe deficits. 
The relationship between autoantibodies and intrauterine growth retardation in hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. Abnormal levels of autoantibodies have recently been demonstrated in patients with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and patients whose fetuses have intrauterine growth retardation. We determined total immunoglobulin levels (immunoglobulin G, immunoglobulin M, and immunoglobulin A) and a broad panel of autoantibodies (six antiphospholipid, four antihistone, and four antipolynucleotide antibodies) in 50 normotensive pregnant females, 19 patients with preeclampsia, and 18 patients with chronic hypertension to examine the relationship to intrauterine growth retardation. Mothers who were delivered of infants with intrauterine growth retardation demonstrated significantly more autoantibody abnormalities in the two hypertensive groups and in the normotensive control group as compared with patients delivered of appropriately grown infants. The most frequently observed autoantibody abnormalities were antiphospholipid antibodies and the most frequently observed among those were immunoglobulin G isotypes. Total immunoglobulin levels in both hypertensive and normotensive groups were identical. These results suggest a close association between the degree of B-cell activation and both severity of hypertensive diseases and development of intrauterine growth retardation in their offspring. 
Emergency treatment with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator of pulmonary embolism in a pregnant woman with antithrombin III deficiency. Thromboembolic complications during pregnancy are frequent in patients with congenital antithrombin III deficiency. We report on a 29-year-old patient with congenital antithrombin III deficiency and severe pulmonary embolism treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. The diagnosis of antithrombin deficiency is retrospective. This case indicates that the risk of thrombolytic therapy in this clinical setting might have been overemphasized. 
Tobacco, alcohol, and coffee and cancer of the pancreas. A population-based, case-control study in Quebec, Canada. A population-based, case-control study of pancreatic cancer was carried out in greater Montreal between 1984 and 1988. A total of 179 cases and 239 population-based controls were interviewed. This study was part of the SEARCH program of the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization. A strong positive association was observed between total cigarette smoking and risk of pancreatic cancer (odds ratio [OR] = 3.76; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.80 to 7.83). The OR for current smokers in the highest quintile of number of cigarettes was 5.15 compared with 3.99 for exsmokers. Those who consumed alcohol were in general at lower risk than nondrinkers. Coffee drinkers were collectively at lower risk than nondrinkers, particularly when coffee was consumed with meals, not on empty stomach. 
Induction of T helper cell unresponsiveness to antigen by macrophages from schistosomal egg granulomas. A basis for immunomodulation in schistosomiasis? The present studies were undertaken in an effort to understand the role of mononuclear phagocytes in the regulation of the T cell-mediated granulomatous inflammatory response in experimental murine schistosomiasis mansoni. We report that macrophages from schistosomal egg granulomas did not efficiently stimulate, but rather induced marked proliferative unresponsiveness to Ag in an IL-2-producing, I-Ek-restricted, CD4+ Th cell clone specific for pigeon cytochrome c. The unresponsive state of the T cells was achieved after incubation with granuloma macrophages in the presence of the specific Ag fragment 81-104, but not with either of them independently, and was, similarly, restricted by the I-Ek molecule. Equivalent amounts of peritoneal macrophages from schistosome-infected, but not from normal mice, were also effective in inducing T cell unresponsiveness. We postulate that granuloma macrophages, and potentially other accessory cells in schistosome-infected individuals, are similarly capable of inducing anergy in egg Ag-specific Th cells, and that the resulting inhibited T cell reactivity, which translates into failure of lymphokine secretion and of clonal expansion, represents a major basis of the immunologic down-regulation (immunomodulation) of granulomatous hypersensitivity, characteristically seen in this disease. 
Complex segregation analysis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma in Chinese families: interaction of inherited susceptibility and hepatitis B viral infection. Primary hepatocellular carcinoma (PHC) is extremely common in eastern China, where it is both associated with chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and often familial. Complex segregation analysis of 490 extended families was undertaken with liability classes defined by age, sex, and HBV infection status. The maximum-likelihood model suggests that a recessive allele with population frequency approximately .25 yields lifetime risk of PHC, in the presence of both HBV infection and genetic susceptibility, of .84 for males and .46 for females. The model further predicts that, in the absence of genetic susceptibility, lifetime risk of PHC is .09 for HBV-infected males and .01 for HBV-infected females and that, regardless of genotype, it is virtually zero for uninfected persons. Complex segregation analysis therefore provides evidence for the interaction of genotype, environmental exposure, sex and age in determining the occurrence of PHC in this population. 
Repression of the interferon signal transduction pathway by the adenovirus E1A oncogene. The signal transduction pathway initiated by type I interferon (alpha and beta interferons) is inhibited by expression of the adenovirus type 5 E1A oncogene. Cotransfection analyses with the E1A oncogene and an interferon-stimulated reporter gene show that mutations within an amino-terminal domain of the E1A oncoprotein are defective in transcriptional repression. Cotransfection experiments also revealed that the transcriptional repression is mediated through the interferon-stimulated response element (ISRE) found within the promoter of interferon-stimulated genes. Since interferon treatment activates a latent cytoplasmic DNA-binding factor that can recognize the ISRE and subsequently stimulate transcription, the appearance of this factor was analyzed in a cell line that constitutively expresses the E1A oncogene. The DNA binding activity of this transcriptional activator was found to be inhibited in the E1A-expressing cell line. In vitro cytoplasmic mixing experiments with extracts from control and E1A-expressing cells identified a specific component of this multimeric transcription factor to be defective. 
Acute pseudobulbar or suprabulbar palsy. We studied 13 patients with supranuclear lower cranial nerve ("pseudobulbar" or "suprabulbar") palsy of acute onset. While seven patients had had a prior stroke, six patients had no history of stroke. Eight patients experienced a complete bilateral supranuclear lower cranial nerve palsy, which was isolated in five patients and associated with hemiplegia and with hemiparesis in three patients. Pseudobulbar palsy was partial in five patients. Only one patient had neuropsychologic impairment. The pseudobulbar features improved or recovered within a few weeks in all patients. The common characteristic of the lesions on computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging was the interruption of the corticonuclear pathways contrasting with marked sparing of the corticospinal pathways in both hemispheres. These lesions were either an opercular infarct, or a deep infarct in the corona radiata or internal capsule, or a lenticular hemorrhage. Hypertension was the most prevalent concomitant. Our findings suggest that acute pseudobulbar or suprabulbar palsy has rather stereotyped anatomic-vascular correlates and time course. 
Adnexal torsion. An unusual cause of abdominal pain in postmenopausal women. Adnexal torsion is a rare cause of abdominal pain in older women. Because the presenting symptoms and signs are vague, the diagnosis is not often considered. Lower abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting are usual in patients with torsion. Ultrasonography or computed tomography are useful diagnostic tests. Two case reports of older patients with adnexal torsion are presented to emphasize the diagnostic features of this entity, including lower abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and abdominal mass. Although the condition is uncommon, adnexal torsion should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal pain. 
Value and limitations of color Doppler echocardiography in the evaluation of percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty for isolated mitral stenosis. The limitations of 2-dimensional and pulsed Doppler echocardiography in patients undergoing mitral valvuloplasty are well known. This study was undertaken to assess the value of color Doppler flow imaging in 36 symptomatic mitral stenosis patients who subsequently underwent successful balloon mitral valvuloplasty by comparing the results to those obtained at cardiac catheterization. Color Doppler-guided conventional Doppler assessment agreed well with cardiac catheterization results in classifying mitral stenosis as mild, moderately severe and severe, both before and after valvuloplasty. Color Doppler was also useful in identifying patients who had moderate to severe mitral regurgitation before and after valvuloplasty. Color Doppler flow mapping was more sensitive than oximetry in the detection of iatrogenic atrial septal defects, which were noted in 25 patients. The defects of those patients with smaller defects by color Doppler (diameter less than 0.7 cm) or echocardiographic shunt volume less than 0.7 liters/min tended to close, usually within 6 months, as opposed to those with larger defects or higher shunt volumes, which tended to persist. Echocardiographic shunt volumes revealed a fair correlation with oximetric results. 
Stricture disease: radiology of urethral stents. Self-expanding metal stents are emerging as an effective alternative treatment in the management of urethral obstruction. The radiologic studies of 33 men with anterior urethral strictures (subprostatic, n = 11; bulbar, n = 22) that had recurred despite repeated optical urethrotomy and dilation were reported. In all patients, the stricture was successfully treated with stent insertion. Urethrography performed 1 month later in 19 patients showed an irregular intrastent lumen of varying degrees due to a hyperplastic urothelial reaction confirmed at endoscopy the same day. Available follow-up urethrograms in seven patients at 3 months showed that the hyperplasia was settling, and by 6 months, the intrastent lumen was smooth and of good caliber. Urethrography revealed postoperative structures in 14 patients. Strictures seen at 1 month (n = 6) were due to initial stent misplacement and were treated with the insertion of a second stent. Strictures seen 3 months after insertion (n = 4) occurred within the stent lumen and were considered to be significant at endoscopy in only one patient. Strictures that developed 6-12 months after stent insertion (n = 4) were not within the stent and were considered to represent genuine new strictures. 
Acute and chronic urticaria and angioedema. Urticaria and angioedema are clinical manifestations of various immunologic and inflammatory mechanisms, or they may be idiopathic. The respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts as well as the cardiovascular system may be involved in any combination. Patients with urticaria and/or angioedema can be classified based on pathophysiologic mechanisms into those with IgE-dependent or complement-mediated immunologic disorders, those with nonimmunologic disorders in which there is a direct effect on the mast cell or on arachidonic acid metabolism, and those whose condition is idiopathic. Evaluation of patients should focus on a thorough history. Laboratory tests provide minimal additional information. About one half of patients with urticaria alone and 25% with urticaria and angioedema or angioedema alone are free of lesions within 1 year. With urticaria, angioedema, or both, 20% of patients experience episodes for more than 20 years. 
Hematologic effects of stem cell factor in vivo and in vitro in rodents. Recombinant rat stem cell factor (rrSCF) administered to rats as a single intravenous injection causes a dose-dependent neutrophilia and lymphocytosis as well as the appearance of immature myeloid cells and occasional blast cells in the circulation. Neutrophilia begins at 2 hours, peaks at 4 to 6 hours, and subsides between 12 and 24 hours. Lymphocytosis occurs at 0.5 hours and has subsided by 2 hours. rrSCF-induced neutrophilia and lymphocytosis are abrogated by boiling, demonstrating that endotoxin-contamination of the rrSCF preparation is not responsible for the observed hematologic effects. The bone marrow at 6 hours after injection of rrSCF shows a left-shifted myeloid and erythroid hyperplasia as evidenced by significant increases in the absolute numbers of morphologically recognizable early myeloid and erythroid precursors. A concurrent decrease in the absolute numbers of mature marrow neutrophils is noted, suggesting that the release of marrow neutrophils contributes to the peripheral neutrophilia. After 2 weeks of daily injections of rrSCF, bone marrow smears demonstrate a remarkable mast cell hyperplasia accompanied by a decrease in total marrow cellularity and by a striking erythroid and lymphoid hypoplasia. rrSCF also causes mast cells to appear in the circulation and causes a systemic increase in embryonic connective tissue-type, but not mucosal-type, mast cells. In vitro long-term culture of lineage-depleted mouse bone marrow cells with rrSCF results in an almost pure outgrowth of mast cells. 
Cervicofacial cystic hygroma. Patterns of recurrence and management of the difficult case. Cystic hygromas usually present in infancy or early childhood as compressible masses that may rapidly and intermittently enlarge. While they may arise in any anatomic location, hygromas of the head and neck are especially difficult to manage since enlargement may cause serious sequela such as airway obstruction, feeding difficulties, and speech pathology. Complete extirpation of these lesions is often impossible, and recurrence rates are accordingly high. We reviewed our 10-year experience in treating cervicofacial cystic hygromas. Of 34 patients, 21 had lesions cephalad to the hyoid and 13 had lesions caudal to the hyoid. While none of the 13 children with infrahyoid lesions demonstrated feeding or respiratory difficulties, eight of 21 children with suprahyoid involvement presented with dysphagia or airway compromise. The recurrence rates for infrahyoid and suprahyoid lesions were 15% and 81%, respectively. Those children with suprahyoid hygromas also experienced an increased operative complication rate compared with patients with infrahyoid involvement. Principles of management for suprahyoid and infrahyoid lesions are described, including the specific management of lingual, submandibular, parotid, and parotofacial hygromas. 
Multisystem failure and hepatic microvesicular fatty metamorphosis associated with tolmetin ingestion. Multisystem toxicity including both renal and hepatic failure has been reported with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We report a fatal case of multisystem failure associated with tolmetin ingestion in a 15-year-old girl. Microvesicular fatty change was found in the liver at autopsy. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-associated multisystem failure to have this histopathologic finding. 
Maximal sniff mouth pressure compared with maximal inspiratory pressure in acute respiratory failure. Inspiratory muscle strength most often is better reflected by sniff Pes than PImax against occlusion. Furthermore, sniff Pes can be estimated noninvasively by the measurement of sniff Pmo in normal subjects and in patients with respiratory muscle weakness. The aim of this study was to compare sniff Pmo and P.PImax to assess inspiratory muscle strength in patients with acute respiratory failure. The highest pressure was produced by P.PImax in 61 percent of measurements, and by sniff Pmo in 39 percent. Above 35 cm H2O P.PImax yielded the highest pressure in 55 percent of cases and the ratio sniff Pmo/P.PImax was 1.20 +/- 0.54. Below 35 cm H2O, P.PImax yielded the highest pressure in 75 percent of cases and the ratio sniff Pmo/P.PImax was 0.76 +/- 0.35 (p less than 0.02). Thus, measurements of sniff Pmo and P.PImax complement one another for assessing inspiratory muscle strength. However, sniff Pmo underestimates inspiratory muscle strength in patients with severe inspiratory muscle weakness. 
Lightning and its effects on the auditory system. Patients struck by lightning can present with a wide variety of unusual otologic problems including burns to the external auditory canal, tympanic membrane rupture, middle ear injury, and sensorineural hearing loss. Four patients who incurred various otologic problems, including one patient with previously unreported bilateral oval window fistulas following lightning injury, are presented. Audiologic, otologic, and surgical findings are reviewed as well as patient follow-up and outcome. 
Isovolumic relaxation sound: a new class of added heart sound? An early diastolic sound in a patient with apical left ventricular disease is reported. Pulsed Doppler echocardiography showed blood flow within the left ventricular cavity during the isovolumic relaxation period whose peak flow velocity was synchronous with the onset of this diastolic sound. Because it occurred before filling started it could not have been either a third or fourth heart sound. It must thus represent a distinct and apparently unrecognised class of diastolic sound. 
Clinical correlation with serum-soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels in Guillain-Barre syndrome. In patients with Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) levels were elevated compared with those of patients with other neurologic diseases (OND), and of healthy controls. Smaller increases in sIL-2R levels occurred in OND patients compared to healthy subjects. Monitoring of GBS patients clearly demonstrated that decreases in sIL-2R levels correlated with clinical recovery. Thus, T-cell activation may be relevant in the pathogenesis of GBS. 
Effect of triple therapy (antibiotics plus bismuth) on duodenal ulcer healing. A randomized controlled trial. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether antimicrobial therapy for Helicobacter pylori infection accelerates the healing of duodenal ulcers. DESIGN: Single-blind, randomized, controlled trial. SETTING: Veterans Affairs hospital. PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and five patients with endoscopically verified duodenal ulcers. INTERVENTION: Patients received either ranitidine, 300 mg/d, or ranitidine, 300 mg/d, plus "triple therapy" (2 g/d of tetracycline, 750 mg/d of metronidazole, and 5 or 8 bismuth subsalicylate tablets per day). Triple therapy was administered for only the first 2 weeks of ulcer treatment. MEASUREMENTS: Videoendoscopic assessment of ulcer status was done until ulcer healing was complete. Evaluations were done after 2, 4, 8, 12, and 16 weeks of therapy. MAIN RESULTS: Ulcer healing was more rapid in patients receiving ranitidine plus triple therapy than in patients receiving ranitidine alone (P less than 0.01). The cumulative percentages of patients with healed ulcers in the group receiving ranitidine plus triple therapy and in the group receiving ranitidine alone were as follows: 37% and 18% after week 2; 74% and 53% after week 4; 84% and 68% after week 8; 96% and 80% after week 12; and 98% and 84% after week 16. CONCLUSION: Combined therapy with anti-H. pylori agents and ranitidine was superior to ranitidine alone for duodenal ulcer healing. Our results indicate that H. pylori plays a role in duodenal ulcer disease. 
Heart rate variability and cardiac autonomic function in men with chronic alcohol dependence. Cardiac autonomic function was studied in 23 alcohol dependent men by standard tests of autonomic function and measurement of 24 hour heart rate variability. In all there was peripheral or central nervous system damage or both. Standard tests of autonomic function showed vagal neuropathy in seven. The remainder had normal autonomic function tests. Twenty four hour heart rate variability was measured as the standard deviation of the successive differences between RR intervals from an ambulatory electrocardiogram recording. Twenty four hour heart rate variability was significantly lower in both alcohol dependent groups than in controls, but the results in the two alcohol dependent groups were not significantly different from each other. The results of standard tests of autonomic function did not distinguish between the alcohol dependent men with normal autonomic function and controls. The differences in heart rate variability between this group and the controls may have been the result of the ability of this method to detect small changes in autonomic integrity. Cardiomyopathy may also account for some of these differences and such abnormalities should be excluded before results are to be regarded as a reflection of vagal function. Twenty four hour measurement of heart rate variability may be a more useful index of cardiac vagal neuropathy than currently available tests of autonomic function. 
The role of serotonin (5HT2) receptor blockade in myocardial reperfusion injury: effects of LY53857 in a canine model of myocardial infarction. The potential protective effects of serotonin receptor antagonism during the process of acute myocardial infarction were studied in anesthetized male dogs, which were subjected to a 90-min left circumflex coronary artery occlusion followed by 5 h of reperfusion. Either vehicle (0.9% NaCl) or the serotonin (5HT2) receptor antagonist LY53857 was infused i.v. at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, followed by a constant infusion of 2 mg/kg/min beginning 5 min before left circumflex coronary artery occlusion and continuing throughout the duration of the ischemia and subsequent reperfusion. Verification of functional 5HT2 receptor antagonism in the circulating blood of the LY53857-treated dogs was monitored throughout the experiments by periodic assessment of ex vivo platelet reactivity to exogenous serotonin. After 5 h of reperfusion, the hearts were excised and analyzed utilizing histochemical staining with triphenyltetrazolium, which demarcates myocardial infarct size and anatomical area of myocardium at risk of infarction. There was not a significant reduction of infarct size with LY53857 treatment: control infarct/area at risk = 38.6 +/- 4.7%, n = 9 LY53857 infarct/area at risk = 33.4 +/- 3.8%, n = 6. Similarly, when myocardial infarct size was analyzed as a function of myocardial collateral blood flow, there were no significant effects of drug treatment on the relationship between collateral blood flow and infarct size. The effects of 5HT on neutrophil activation were determined by measuring the potential ability of 5HT to enhance the chemotactic peptide-induced production of superoxide. 5HT did not activate human neutrophils in vitro and LY53857 had no effect on neutrophil superoxide production. 
A rat model of acute liver necrosis induced by a monoclonal antibody to liver-specific antigen and complement. Acute massive hepatic injury was induced in rats by a monoclonal antibody against a rat liver-specific membrane antigen, and its histological characteristics were investigated. A single intravenous injection of murine ascites containing a monoclonal antibody produced numerous hemorrhagic foci of degenerated and necrotic liver cells predominantly in zones 1 (the periportal area) and 2 (the area of transition between the periportal zone and the perivenular zone) of the liver lobule within 10 min. Massive hepatocellular necroses were observed 1 hr later, but no inflammatory cell infiltration occurred in and around the necrotic foci. Immunohistological study demonstrated marked deposition of the third component of the complement system in the necrotic area. Serum complement activity was sharply decreased immediately after the injection of the antibody, suggesting that the hepatic necrosis is ascribable to a complement-mediated immune attack on the liver cell membrane induced by the antigen-antibody reaction. The hepatic necrosis in response to monoclonal-antibody injection did not progress to a chronic disease and healed almost completely, changing to scar tissues within 2 wk. Although it is not clear whether this hepatic injury has any clinical relevance, this antibody/complement model may be useful for investigating the cause and therapy of hepatic diseases such as fulminant hepatitis. 
Residual tumor discovered in routine second transurethral resection in patients with stage T1 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. When a second transurethral resection was routinely performed 8 to 14 days after the initial transurethral resection in 46 patients for stage T1 bladder tumors residual disease was found in 20 despite the surgical report of complete resection in 40. In only 13 patients was residual tumor noted at repeat resection by the senior urologist performing the operation and residual tumor was confirmed histologically in 10 of them. The extent of the lesion is easily misjudged even by experienced surgeons. Early cystoscopy cannot exclude residual tumor. Residual tumor is an important cause of early recurrence and repeat resection of stage T1 lesions is recommended. 
Recurrent malacoplakia of the female urethra. Malacoplakia, a rare inflammatory lesion, afflicts the genitourinary system in most cases. A 22-year-old women had a recurrence of urethral malacoplakia that had been excised 5 years earlier. The recurrence was accompanied by staphylococcal infection in the urinary tract. The pathological specimens in both instances had the features typical of malacoplakia with von Hansemann cells and Michaelis-Gutmann bodies. 
Recurrent haemospermia--underlying urogenital anomalies and efficacy of imaging procedures. Recurrent haemospermia is often regarded as "essential". Following routine diagnostic procedures, we found an associated factor in 54 of 72 patients (75%). With one exception (prostatic carcinoma), the benign character of the disease was confirmed. Urogenital infection was the most frequent concomitant finding (50%); in 26 men chronic prostatis was diagnosed. Other disorders such as hypertension and coagulation disorders played a minor role. Additional investigation of the prostate gland and seminal vesicles by transrectal prostatic ultrasonography revealed persistent asymmetry of the latter glands as the main finding in 20 men (28%). In every case seminal vesicle carcinoma was excluded; haemorrhage due to cystic distension, inflammatory lesions or ductal obstruction was associated in all cases with congenital abnormalities, chronic urogenital infection, coagulation disorders or hypertension. 
Viral persistence in neurons explained by lack of major histocompatibility class I expression. Viruses frequently persist in neurons, suggesting that these cells can evade immune surveillance. In a mouse model, 5 x 10(6) cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), specific for lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), did not lyse infected neurons or cause immunopathologic injury. In contrast, intracerebral injection of less than 10(3) CTL caused disease and death when viral antigens were expressed on leptomeningeal and choroid plexus cells of the nervous system. The neuronal cell line OBL21 expresses little or no major histocompatibility (MHC) class I surface glycoproteins and when infected with LCMV, resisted lysis by virus-specific CTLs. Expression of MHC heavy chain messenger RNA was limited, but beta 2-microglobulin messenger RNA and protein was made normally. OBL21 cells were made sensitive to CTL lysis by transfection with a fusion gene encoding another MHC class I molecule. Hence, neuronal cells probably evade immune surveillance by failing to express MHC class I molecules. 
Adverse effect of therapeutic vasoconstrictors in experimental acute pancreatitis. Alpha-adrenergic drugs commonly are used to treat hypotension resulting from severe acute pancreatitis. It was shown previously that although systemic arterial pressure is increased by phenylephrine, pancreatic microcirculatory perfusion is decreased. Because inadequate tissue perfusion may be critical in the progression of edematous pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis, it was hypothesized that vasoconstrictors might be harmful in pancreatitis. Therefore the effect of phenylephrine on cerulein-induced mild pancreatitis were studied. Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 54) were randomly allocated to 6 experimental groups and subjected to the following infusion regimens: (1) cerulein (cae) + phenylephrine (phe), (2) cae + saline (NS), (3) NS + phe, (4) cae + phenoxybenzamine (pbz) + phe, (5) NS + pbz + phe, and (6) NS. Initial and terminal hematocrit, serum amylase activity, and blood ionized calcium concentration were determined. The animals were killed 9 hours after starting the infusion. Macroscopic and histologic changes were scored by a 'blinded' pathologist. Phenylephrine increased the severity of cerulein-induced pancreatitis as manifested by statistically significant adverse changes in serum amylase, hematocrit, ionized calcium, peripancreatitic soap formation, and acinar cell vacuolization. These changes were antagonized by alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade with phenoxybenzamine. It is concluded that phenylephrine is deleterious in acute experimental pancreatitis, the first demonstration of such an effect by a pharmacologic vasoconstrictor, and suggested that microcirculatory changes may be important in the transition of mild to severe pancreatitis. Caution in the use of vasoconstrictor drugs in patients with acute pancreatitis is recommended. 
Opercular cheiro-oral syndrome. Perioral and distal upper limb sensory dysfunction (cheiro-oral syndrome) has classically been attributed to cortical involvement. In previously reported cases of the syndrome, caused by stroke, however, the thalamus or brain stem has been the actual site of the lesion. We have studied two patients with infarct in the superficial middle cerebral artery territory involving the parietal operculum. Sensory involvement was purely subjective in the face, but severe hypoesthesia was present in the distal upper limb, involving mainly position sense, stereognosis, and graphesthesia. Temperature and pain sensation were involved in one patient. These findings correlated with involvement of the lower part of the postcentral gyrus, more caudal parts of the parietal operculum, and underlying white matter. This opercular cheiro-oral syndrome seems more uncommon than faciobrachiocrural hemihypesthesia associated with anterior parietal artery territory infarct. A double supply to the parietal opercular region through branches of the temporal arteries and anterior parietal artery may explain the rarity of cheiro-oral syndrome resulting from hemisphere stroke, because simultaneous and partial compromise to two different pial artery networks is uncommon. 
Determinants of one-year outcome from balloon aortic valvuloplasty. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV) has been a therapeutic alternative treatment for severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Previous studies have been unable to predict 1-year outcome because of limited acute and follow-up clinical, invasive and echocardiographic data. The purpose of this study was to predict long-term outcome based on comprehensive data obtained at the time of valvuloplasty and at 3 and 6 months after the procedure. Of 170 consecutive patients undergoing BAV, 108 (mean age 78 years) were at least 1 year from their procedure. Prospective clinical, micromanometer hemodynamic, digital ventriculographic and echocardiographic/Doppler data were collected at baseline and immediately after the procedure. Echocardiographic data were also obtained at 3 and 6 months. With use of Cox model analysis, major events (defined as cardiac death [n = 30], aortic valve replacement [n = 21] or repeat BAV [n = 13]) were predicted by advanced age, baseline heart failure class, and baseline echocardiographic-determined diastolic left ventricular diameter. Only baseline left ventricular ejection fraction proved to be a significant predictor of cardiac death (p = 0.002) in a multivariate model. Absolute values after BAV (stroke work, first derivative of left ventricular pressure, valve area, end-systolic volume, Fick cardiac output, transvalvular gradient) and acute changes measured by catheterization or echocardiography did not provide additional predictive information over that of post procedure ejection fraction. Similarly, echocardiographic valve area and transvalvular gradient at 3 months added no further prognostic data. With an ejection fraction greater than or equal to 45% (n = 63), cardiac survival at 1 year was 80%, irrespective of age, sex, congestive heart failure class or severity of coronary artery disease. 
The prevalence and management of bronchial anastomotic complications in lung transplantation. The prevalence and management of bronchial anastomosis complications have been assessed in a series of 53 patients undergoing lung transplantation. Of the 50 patients subsequently at risk of airway complications, these problems occurred in seven (14%). Only one patient died as a direct result of the airway complication (2%). Four patients required airway stenting, and their management is discussed. Although airway healing is normal in the majority of patients undergoing lung transplantation (86%), when deficits occur they can usually be successfully managed with conservative treatment. Bronchial stenting may be required on either a temporary or a permanent basis. 
A limitation of endoscopic ultrasound: an unusual case of early gastric cancer overlying a pancreatic rest. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been developed as a valuable tool for examining the depth of carcinoma invasion and evaluating the submucosal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. In the present case, that of a 60-yr-old woman, the work-up of radiography and conventional endoscopy revealed an ulcerating cancer of the stomach. Subsequent EUS showed a solid high-echoic mass occupying the third (submucosal) and fourth (muscularis propria) layers of gastric wall, suggestive of an advanced cancer invading the muscularis propria. However, histologic examination of the surgical specimen showed that this tumor was early submucosal carcinoma confined to the surface of a pancreatic rest. Retrospective evaluation of EUS pictures proved that the mass had tubular or circular echoless structures associated with thickening of the fourth layer, suggesting the pancreatic rest. Our experience in reviewing EUS findings of this tumor seems noteworthy, inasmuch as EUS indicates that EUS may provide certain characteristic features of gastric pancreatic rest that should be differentiated from invading carcinoma. 
Tibial meniscal dynamics using three-dimensional reconstruction of magnetic resonance images. The human knee joint represents a complex biomechanical system of which the menisci are an integral component. At present, little data exists describing the meniscal kinematics of the intact knee. Accordingly, a three-dimensional reconstruction magnetic resonance image model was used to explore this issue. Five fresh cadaveric knees were examined by magnetic resonance imaging throughout a full range of motion at 10 degrees intervals. Computer three-dimensional images of the menisci were generated and evaluated for anteroposterior excursion and deformation. During flexion, the posterior excursion of the medial meniscus was 5.1 mm, while that of the lateral meniscus was 11.2 mm. The anterior horn segments were shown to be more mobile than the posterior horn segments bilaterally. Prior limitations of meniscal kinematic assessment may be overcome with advanced imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging and three-dimensional reconstruction. The menisci are highly mobile and easily deformed structures within the intact, cadaveric knee. This imaging technique may prove useful in the elucidation of meniscal dynamics. In the future, similar techniques may be applied clinically to aid in the diagnosis of joint dysfunction. 
Peer problems in Tourette's disorder. To explore the social adjustment and peer relationships of children with Tourette's disorder, 29 patients with mild to moderate Tourette's disorder were studied. Children underwent neuropsychological testing. The patients completed self-esteem scales and their parents and teachers completed behavior rating scales. Peer relationships were examined with the Pupil Evaluation Inventory, which is a sociometric questionnaire completed by the child's classmates and provides measures of aggression, withdrawal, and likability. As a group, Tourette's disorder patients were significantly more withdrawn, more aggressive, and less popular than their classmates. Thirty-five percent of the children with Tourette's disorder received the lowest rating in the class on one or more of the Pupil Evaluation Inventory factors. These social problems were not predicted by the frequency or duration of tics. A clinical diagnosis of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and teachers' ratings on the summary scale of the Child Behavior Checklist and the Pupil Evaluation Inventory did predict poor adjustment. It is concluded that social adjustment is a major difficulty for many children with Tourette's disorder, irrespective of tic severity. 
Color Doppler imaging in the management of intraocular tumors. Forty-four intraocular mass lesions were studied using a new, non-invasive ultrasound technique known as color Doppler imaging (CDI). This technique displays color-encoded Doppler flow information throughout a two-dimensional gray scale image thus providing selective analysis of Doppler spectra in small vessels using pulsed Doppler. Abnormal Doppler shifts were demonstrated within 39 neoplastic lesions studied, but Doppler shifts could not be detected in three tumor-simulating lesions. In a group of 12 choroidal melanomas studied after radiation therapy, lower Doppler shifts were seen compared with a group of 28 tumors before therapy. This change in Doppler shift may reflect the decreased vascular supply of the tumor. Color Doppler imaging may be of value as an additional useful tool in the diagnosis and management of intraocular tumors. 
Fluconazole therapy for chronic disseminated candidiasis in patients with leukemia and prior amphotericin B therapy. OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy of fluconazole against chronic disseminated candidiasis (hepatosplenic candidiasis) in patients with leukemia in whom amphotericin B treatment had failed. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients with chronic disseminated candidiasis treated with fluconazole on a compassionate investigational new drug protocol. SETTING: Multi-institutional. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty consecutive patients received 100 to 400 mg of fluconazole per day for a median of 30 weeks. All had either failed to respond to treatment with more than 2 g of amphotericin B or had serious amphotericin B-related toxicities. RESULTS: Fourteen of 16 evaluable patients (88%) responded. Responses were observed in seven of nine patients in whom adequate doses of amphotericin B had failed and in all seven patients who had amphotericin B-related toxicities. In 12 patients, cytotoxic chemotherapy was continued without flare of the infection. Fluconazole was well tolerated with rare side effects. Aspergillus superinfection developed in three patients and contributed to the death of two of them. CONCLUSION: Fluconazole is a safe and effective agent with significant activity against chronic disseminated candidiasis. 
Amplified expression of three jun family members inhibits erythroleukemia differentiation. Several different proto-oncogenes have been shown to influence cellular differentiation. One of the most widely studied model systems has been the Friend murine erythroleukemia cell (F-MELC) line, which can be induced to undergo erythroid differentiation by a variety of chemical agents. Constitutive overexpression of either the c-myc or c-myb proto-oncogenes has been previously shown to inhibit F-MELC differentiation, whereas c-myc antisense sequences accelerate the process. To investigate the potential involvement of other proto-oncogenes and immediate early response genes in F-MELC differentiation, we studied the expression of the three known members of the jun family as well as another gene, egr-1, which, like the jun family members, is expressed as an immediate early response gene in growth factor-stimulated quiescent cells. All four genes were expressed in F-MELC, although the levels of expression and modes of regulation differed. Transfection with amplifiable c-jun, junB, or junD expression plasmids inhibited differentiation, whereas transfection with an egr-1 expression plasmid was without effect. These results indicate that jun family members play a role in mediating F-MELC differentiation. The known inhibitory effect of phorbol ester tumor promoters on F-MELC differentiation may be the result of their known stimulation of jun expression. 
The molecular basis for Duchenne versus Becker muscular dystrophy: correlation of severity with type of deletion. About 60% of both Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) is due to deletions of the dystrophin gene. For cases with a deletion mutation, the "reading frame" hypothesis predicts that BMD patients produce a semifunctional, internally deleted dystrophin protein, whereas DMD patients produce a severely truncated protein that would be unstable. To test the validity of this theory, we analyzed 258 independent deletions at the DMD/BMD locus. The correlation between phenotype and type of deletion mutation is in agreement with the "reading frame" theory in 92% of cases and is of diagnostic and prognostic significance. The distribution and frequency of deletions spanning the entire locus suggests that many "in-frame" deletions of the dystrophin gene are not detected because the individuals bearing them are either asymptomatic or exhibit non-DMD/non-BMD clinical features. 
Lipoprotein(a) and apolipoprotein changes after cardiac transplantation. Although lipoprotein changes after cardiac transplantation have been documented, the effects of transplantation and subsequent immunosuppressive therapy (particularly the combination of prednisone, azathioprine and cyclosporine) on apolipoprotein levels and lipoprotein(a) have not been reported. Fasting cholesterol, triglycerides, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, apolipoprotein A-1 and B-100 and lipoprotein(a) were evaluated in 69 consecutive patients during the waiting period before cardiac transplantation. There were 28 deaths before donor organ identification and 41 patients received a cardiac allograft. The lipoprotein levels of transplant recipients were again assayed 3 months postoperatively. Mean (+/- SEM) values increased for total plasma cholesterol (from 180 +/- 8 to 228 +/- 8 mg/dl, p less than or equal to 0.001), triglycerides (from 126 +/- 11 to 207 +/- 14 mg/dl; p less than or equal to 0.001), HDL cholesterol (from 39 +/- 2 to 49 +/- 3 mg/dl; p less than or equal to 0.002) and LDL cholesterol (from 119 +/- 7 to 138 +/- 7 mg/dl; p less than 0.02). Apolipoprotein A-1 and B-100 also increased, but lipoprotein(a) decreased from 11.7 +/- 1.7 to 6.8 +/- 1.1 mg/dl; p less than or equal to 0.0001) after transplantation. Although total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein A-1 and B-100 increased dramatically after cardiac transplantation, so did HDL cholesterol, thereby keeping the LDL/HDL cholesterol ratio constant. The surprising decrease in lipoprotein(a) after cardiac transplantation suggests that metabolism of lipoprotein(a) is independent of LDL cholesterol and that immunosuppressive drugs either decrease the synthesis or increase catabolism of lipoprotein(a). 
Acute dependence on depressant drugs is determined by common genes in mice. Withdrawal seizure prone (WSP) and withdrawal seizure resistant (WRS) mice were genetically selected to express severe or mild handling-induced convulsions (HIC), respectively, after cessation of chronic ethanol (EtOH) vapor inhalation. The studies reported here tested WSP and WSR mice to determine whether elevated HIC were seen after administration of acute doses of several drugs that depress central nervous system activity. The drugs tested were EtOH, pentobarbital, t-butanol, acetaldehyde, and diazepam. All drugs initially suppressed HIC in WSP mice. This suppression was followed by an exacerbation of HIC, suggestive of a state of rebound central nervous system hyperexcitability during acute withdrawal. Susceptibility to acute withdrawal seizures was clearly under genetic control, since WSR mice did not display acute withdrawal HIC to any appreciable extent. Acute EtOH withdrawal seizures did not require testing WSP mice repeatedly, as they could be seen upon a single HIC test 8 hr after EtOH injection. Results with acetaldehyde and t-butanol suggest that the formation of acetaldehyde may be sufficient, but is not necessary for the elicitation of acute EtOH withdrawal. Earlier studies had found that WSP mice displayed more severe withdrawal HIC than WSR mice after chronic treatment with t-butanol, phenobarbital, nitrous oxide, or diazepam. The genetic predisposition to chronic EtOH withdrawal HIC in WSP mice generalized to all central nervous system depressants acutely tested, suggesting that acute and chronic withdrawal to all these drugs is largely under the control of a common group of genes. 
Reconstruction of failed lumbar surgery with narrow AO DCP plates for spinal arthrodesis. Forty-five patients underwent surgical reconstruction with transpedicular fixation of the lumbar spine with narrow AO DCP plates. Preoperatively, all patients underwent spinal imaging with either magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, or myelogram as well as provocative discography to determine the location and the number of symptomatic segments. The minimum follow-up in this series was 2 years. The determination of solid posterior fusion in the presence of plate instrumentation was difficult. The patients in the series were classified as having 1) solid fusion; 2) radiographic flaws within the posterolateral fusion without implant failure; or 3) frank pseudarthrosis with implant failure. Thirty-six (80%) of the patients had a solid fusion, 9 of whom required an additional anterior interbody fusion to obtain symptom control. Twenty percent of the patients in the series had radiographic evidence of reabsorption without implant failure. Four patients in the series (8.8%) had screw breakage, three of which required anterior interbody fusions. The highest rate of reabsorption and pseudarthrosis implant failure was in the 12 patients who had three-level instrumentation; 33% of these patients required anterior interbody fusion to obtain a solid arthrodesis. The average preoperative pain scale was 8.9, and the average postoperative pain scale was a 3.3. Twenty-two patients in the series were cigarette smokers and had a slightly lower fusion rate than non-smokers. They did, however, have a higher use of narcotics after surgery. Forty percent of the patients in this series continued to have radiculopathy after their reconstruction. This study demonstrates the utility of transpedicular fixation in salvage lumbar surgery in obtaining a solid arthrodesis with a beneficial clinical result. Anterior interbody fusions are highly successful in the management of pseudarthrosis and implant failure after transpedicular instrumentation. 
Role of balloon angioplasty in the treatment of aortic coarctation. Since the initial report of coarctation balloon angioplasty in 1982, several groups have used this technique for native coarctations in neonates, infants, and children and for postoperative recoarctations. However, recommendations for use of balloon angioplasty as a treatment procedure of choice are clouded by reports of aneurysm development at the site of coarctation. Here we review our experience as well as that published in the literature, including Valvuloplasty and Angioplasty of Congenital Anomalies Registry data, and present evidence in support of balloon angioplasty as a therapeutic procedure of choice for treating native and recurrent postoperative aortic coarctations. Balloon angioplasty of native aortic coarctations in 20 neonates and infants 1 year old or less reduced peak systolic pressure gradient across the coarctation from 40 +/- 12 mm Hg (mean +/- standard deviation) to 11 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.001); no patient required immediate surgical intervention. The residual gradient at follow-up (mean follow-up, 12 months) in 16 infants was 18 +/- 16 mm Hg, a significant improvement (p less than 0.01) compared with preangioplasty values. In none of the patients did an aneurysm develop. Recoarctation developed in 5 (31%) of the 16 infants and was successfully treated either by surgical resection (in 2) or by repeat balloon angioplasty (in 3). A comparison of mortality and recurrence rates between the balloon angioplasty and surgical groups was made with the help of data pooled from the literature published since 1980. The initial (7% versus 23%) and late (2% versus 25%) mortality and recoarctation (11% versus 18%) rates were higher (p less than 0.025) after surgical intervention than after balloon therapy. When only reports in which patients were operated on after 1979 were included in this type of analysis, the initial and late mortality rates remained higher (p less than 0.01) after operation than after angioplasty, and the recoarctation rates became similar (p greater than 0.1). Thirty-two children (greater than 1 year old) underwent balloon angioplasty of native coarctation with a resultant reduction in peak systolic pressure gradient from 48 +/- 19 mm Hg to 10 +/- 9 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), which continued to remain low (14 +/- 11 mm Hg; p less than 0.001) at follow-up catheterization in 24 children 13 months (mean) later. There were no immediate or late deaths. A small aneurysm developed in 1 patient (4%) but did not require intervention. Recoarctation developed in 2 patients (8%), and in both, repeat balloon angioplasty was performed with good results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Relation between skin cancer and HLA antigens in renal-transplant recipients BACKGROUND. Recipients of renal allografts are at an increased risk for skin cancer. It is also known that recipients who are homozygous for HLA antigens are at an increased risk for certain cancers, as are those who are mismatched with their donors for these antigens. In a case-control study we assessed the relation between skin cancer in renal-transplant recipients and HLA homozygosity and mismatching. METHODS. Of 764 patients who received renal transplants between 1966 and 1988, 66 had squamous-cell carcinoma or basal-cell carcinoma of the skin after transplantation. HLA homozygosity was assessed in all 66 recipients, and HLA mismatching in 39; the results were compared with those in 124 recipients without skin cancer. We also investigated the relation between skin cancer and the use of immunosuppressive drugs. In separate case-control analyses we investigated the influence of exposure to the sun and keratotic skin lesions on the risk of skin cancer. RESULTS. The risk of squamous-cell carcinoma was increased in recipients mismatched for HLA-B antigens; the relative risks were 2.6 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 6.5) and 5.0 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.3 to 19.0) with mismatching for one and two antigens, respectively, as compared with no mismatching. Mismatching for HLA-A or HLA-DR antigens had no effect on the risk of squamous-cell carcinoma, and there was no association between mismatches at any of the HLA loci and the occurrence of basal-cell carcinoma. The total doses of azathioprine and prednisone were not associated with the occurrence of skin cancer or with HLA matching. Exposure to sunlight and keratotic skin lesions were strongly associated with skin cancer but not with HLA mismatching. Homozygosity for HLA-DR was more frequent among the patients with squamous-cell carcinoma (relative risk, 2.5; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.95 to 4.6) and among patients with 100 or more keratotic skin lesions (relative risk, 4.8; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 15.1). CONCLUSIONS. HLA-B mismatching is significantly associated with the risk of squamous-cell carcinoma in renal-transplant recipients, as is HLA-DR homozygosity. An indirect effect on the level of immunosuppression does not appear to explain these findings, nor does exposure to sunlight or the number of keratotic skin lesions account for this observation. 
Mortality, neoplasia, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in patients treated with human pituitary growth hormone in the United Kingdom OBJECTIVE--To determine the cause of death and incidence of neoplasia in patients treated with human pituitary growth hormone. DESIGN--A long term cohort study established to receive details of death certification and tumour registrations through the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys and NHS central register. PATIENTS--All patients (1246 male, 662 female) treated for short stature with pituitary growth hormone under the Medical Research Council working party and health services human growth hormone committee. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Death or development of neoplasia. RESULTS--110 patients died (68 male, 42 female; aged 0.9-57 years) from 1972 to 1990. Fifty three death were from neoplasia responsible for growth hormone deficiency (27 craniopharyngioma, 24 other intracranial tumour, two leukaemia); two from histiocytosis X; and 13 from pituitary insufficiency. Six patients died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, six of other neurological disorders, and eight of acute infection. Other deaths were apparently unrelated to growth hormone deficiency or its treatment. Seventeen tumours (in 16 patients) were identified during or after growth hormone treatment. Four were in patients with previous intracranial neoplasia and two were after cranial irradiation. Thirteen were intracranial, the others being Hodgkin's lymphoma, osteosarcoma, carcinoma of colon, and basal cell carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS--Recurrence or progression of intracranial tumours and potentially avoidable metabolic consequences of hypopituitarism were the main causes of death. Growth hormone treatment probably did not contribute to new tumour development. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease after pituitary growth hormone treatment continues to occur in the United Kingdom. This cohort must remain under long term review. 
The efficacy of chlorhexidine gel in reduction of Streptococcus mutans and Lactobacillus species in patients treated with radiation therapy. Xerostomia may develop in patients with cancer who receive radiotherapy that includes the salivary glands in the field. These patients are at high risk of rampant dental caries. Streptococcus mutans and Lactobacillus species have been associated with dental caries. Quantitative counts of these organisms demonstrated high caries risk due to streptococci in 66% and due to lactobacilli in 100% of patients studied. Use of chlorhexidine rinse was shown to reduce S. mutans counts 1.1 logs and lactobacilli 1.1 logs. The use of chlorhexidine gel resulted in a reduction of S. mutans 1.2 logs and lactobacilli 2.2 logs. In the subjects using the rinse, caries risk due to streptococci was reduced to low levels in 44% and due to lactobacilli in only one subject, with reduction to moderate risk in one third and no change in risk in the remaining patients. The use of chlorhexidine gel was found to reduce the caries risk associated with streptococci to low levels in all patients, and the risk associated with lactobacilli to low and moderate risk in two thirds of patients. 
Intraoperative evaluation of intestinal ischemia: a comparison of methods. Methods for evaluating intestinal ischemia include standard clinical criteria, Doppler ultrasonography, and intravenous fluorescein injection. Each has disadvantages, and a combination of methods is often used. The purpose of this study was to determine whether surface oximetry could be used to assess perfusion in an animal whose intestinal diameter approximates that of infants. Reversible arterial, venous, and arteriovenous occlusion was studied in rabbit intestines. After 6 to 8 hours of occlusion, intestinal vascularity was evaluated by the four methods listed. Doppler ultrasonography and surface oximetry were found to be unreliable tools for assessing perfusion in this animal model. We conclude that standard clinical criteria and fluorescein remain the standards for intraoperative evaluation of intestinal perfusion. 
Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with myocardial dysfunction and acute leukemia. The role of amsacrine in inducing remission in patients with cardiac disease and acute leukemia was evaluated. There were 17 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), six with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and one with biphenotypic leukemia. In this series of 24 patients whose disease had relapsed and who had reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, nine had a complete remission, seven with AML and two with ALL. In addition, four of six with newly diagnosed acute leukemia and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction also responded. Among nine patients who underwent endomyocardial biopsy, none had morphologic changes of sufficient degree to account for drug-induced heart failure. Patients with preexisting arrhythmias received amsacrine without incident if their serum potassium level was higher than 4.0 mEq/l at the time of drug administration. Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with acute leukemia and cardiac disease. 
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma presenting as a primary tumor of the liver: presentation, diagnosis and outcome in eight patients. We report the diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic features of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in eight patients in whom the disease was seen as a primary tumor of the liver. This series illustrates the variety of situations in which lymphoma might be diagnosed: (a) abdominal pain and hepatomegaly (three cases), (b) incidental finding at evaluation of a patient with cirrhosis (two cases), (c) secondary neoplasm after treatment for Hodgkin's disease (one case) and (d) complication of AIDS (two cases). In most cases, clinical and/or radiological features were nonspecific. However, the combination of the following features must be considered as suggestive: occurrence of an apparently primary hepatic tumor in an immunocompromised patient, absence of the usual serum tumor markers and increased serum lactic dehydrogenase activity. The final diagnosis was based on histological examination of specimens obtained by ultrasonically guided liver biopsies or at surgery. All cases belonged to unfavorable histological subtypes. Immunohistochemical findings on paraffin-embedded sections demonstrated the B-lymphocyte lineage of the seven tumors available for study. In the three patients without coexisting disease, complete remission was obtained by surgery alone or combined with chemotherapy. In the two patients with coexisting cirrhosis, outcome was rapidly unfavorable, with death occurring less than 3 mo after diagnosis. Among the three immunocompromised patients, two experienced a rapid unfavorable outcome, and the remaining one was in complete remission after surgery and chemotherapy. In conclusion, primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the liver arising in patients without coexisting disease has a slow progression and might be successfully treated by surgery. 
Management of hyponatremic seizures in children with hypertonic saline: a safe and effective strategy. OBJECTIVE: To study efficacy and safety of hypertonic saline administration in the management of hyponatremic seizures. DESIGN: Retrospective, observational, cross-sectional study with factorial design. SETTING: In-patient population in a university hospital. PATIENTS: All children admitted with serum sodium concentrations less than 125 mmol/L. Sixty-nine episodes of severe hyponatremia in 60 children were reviewed. Forty-one of these children presented with seizures. INTERVENTIONS: Twenty-five of 41 seizure patients received an iv bolus of 4 to 6 mL/kg body weight of 3% saline. Twenty-eight patients were treated with a benzodiazepine and/or phenobarbital with or without the subsequent administration of hypertonic saline. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Thirteen treatment failures and ten instances of apnea occurred among the 28 patients treated with benzodiazepine/phenobarbital. Administration of hypertonic saline resulted in resolution of seizures and apnea in all cases. Those patients receiving 3% saline had a higher serum sodium increase rate from 0 to 4 hrs than the remaining patients (3.1 +/- 1.3 vs. 1.7 +/- 1.2 mmol/L.hr, p less than .01). None developed subsequent neurologic deterioration or clinical manifestations of osmotic demyelination syndrome. CONCLUSION: Treatment of hyponatremic seizures with routine anticonvulsants may be ineffective and is associated with a considerable incidence of apnea. A rapid increase in the serum sodium concentration by 3 to 5 mmol/L with the use of hypertonic saline is safe and efficacious in managing acute symptomatic hyponatremia. 
Rheumatic manifestations in myelodysplastic syndromes. The myelodysplastic syndromes are characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis with possible transformation to acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. We describe a patient with refractory anemia with excess blasts with unusual rheumatic manifestations of vasculitis, migratory synovitis, arthralgias, and myalgias. A retrospective review over a 6-month period of 162 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes found 16 patients (10%) with several rheumatic manifestations. We divided these manifestations into 4 different categories: cutaneous vasculitis, "lupus-like syndrome," neuropathy, and patients with both a rheumatic disease and a myelodysplastic syndrome. There were 7 with cutaneous vasculitis including leukocytoclastic vasculitis and other individual cases of urticarial vasculitis and panniculitis; 3 with lupus-like manifestations with histological evidence of an inflammatory process; 3 with neuropathic manifestations including peripheral neuropathy, mononeuritis with foot drop, and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy; and 3 patients in which their myelodysplastic syndrome was diagnosed after their rheumatic disease was known, including rheumatoid arthritis. Sjogren's syndrome and mixed connective tissue disease. The class with refractory anemia with excess blasts had 9 patients with rheumatic manifestations but also had the largest number of patients in the study (46/162 or 29%). Three of the 16 patients died, all from the refractory anemia with excess blasts class, reflecting the known mortality in this group of patients. We believe there is a significant association between myelodysplastic syndromes and rheumatic manifestations. 
Primary hyperaldosteronism due to a functional black (pigmented) adenoma of the adrenal cortex. The clinical and pathologic findings are reported in a case of primary hyperaldosteronism due to a functional black (pigmented) adenoma of the adrenal cortex. Cortical atrophy of the involved gland was present, the mechanism of which was obscure. 
Comparison of tomographic and planar imaging for the evaluation of thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction using pre- and post-treatment myocardial scintigraphy with technetium-99m sestamibi. Pre- and post-treatment myocardial scintigraphy with technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile (Tc-99m sestamibi) was performed in patients who underwent thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction comparing planar imaging and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Twenty-one patients were injected with Tc-99m sestamibi before thrombolytic treatment. SPECT and planar imaging were acquired after completion of the treatment. The scintigraphy was repeated 5 days later in 20 subjects. Planar and SPECT studies were evaluated using an uptake score. Patients were divided according to the status of the infarct-related vessel (patent in 13 patients, group 1, and occluded in seven, group 2) and to the presence of functional recovery in serial echocardiographic controls (present in 10 patients, group A, and absent in 10, group B). The scintigraphic defect extent in the 5-day images correlated with the enzymatic infarct size: SPECT: r = 0.75, p less than 0.0002; planar: r = 0.68, p less than 0.002. The decrease of the uptake defects correlated with the reduction of the left ventricular wall asynergy (admission versus 1 month echocardiogram): SPECT: r = 0.92, p less than 0.000001; planar: r = 0.82, p less than 0.00001. The percent decrease of the uptake defects was significantly higher in patients in group 1 and group A compared with group 2 and, respectively, group B--SPECT: group 1: 51.4 +/- 27.7 versus group 2: 13.1 +/- 8.6, p less than 0.02; group A: 64.2 +/- 15.3 versus group B: 11.9 +/- 8.1, p less than 0.0002; planar group 1: 41 +/- 30.4 versus group 2: 7.7 +/- 6.2, p less than 0.05; group A: 52.5 +/- 24.3 versus group B: 6.1 +/- 6, p less than 0.0002. This study confirms the reliability of pre- and post-treatment myocardial scintigraphy with Tc-99m sestamibi for evaluating the outcome of thrombolytic treatment in myocardial infarction. The results seems slightly more accurate using SPECT, but a simple three-view planar study also gives useful data. 
Extradural haematoma after continuous extradural anaesthesia. We report a case of extradural haematoma occurring after extradural anaesthesia in an anticoagulated patient. The diagnosis was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging and the haematoma was evacuated surgically. A search of the literature revealed only five previous reports of extradural haematoma in association with extradural anaesthesia. 
Deficiencies in anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody measurement in myasthenia gravis. In a retrospective case note study of 86 patients with myasthenia gravis, 60 had an anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody assay performed by the regional immunology laboratory. Antibody was detected in 38% which compares with 66-93% in other series. Whilst the use of staphylococcal protein A to precipitate the antibody-receptor complex, rather than anti-human immunoglobulin, may be partly responsible for this low sensitivity, other methodological problems are likely to exist. It is suggested that this potentially critical assay becomes a subject for regular audit. 
Role of intraoperative ultrasound examination in patients undergoing a Fontan-type procedure. To determine its potential impact on perioperative surgical management intraoperative ultrasound examination (cross sectional imaging, colour flow mapping, pulsed and continuous wave Doppler) was used in 16 consecutive patients undergoing a Fontan-type procedure. Epicardial cross sectional imaging before bypass defined the precise intracardiac morphology in 15 of 16 patients. The preoperative morphological diagnosis was refined in four patients (25%), and this influenced surgical management in two (12%). Epicardial studies after bypass identified seven residual haemodynamic lesions in five patients (three residual intercardiac shunts, one ventricular outflow obstruction, one pulmonary artery obstruction, two mitral valve regurgitation), and led to immediate revision during a second period of bypass in three (18%). In one patient who required early reoperation residual shunting was not detected after bypass by either colour flow mapping or a contrast study. Final intraoperative studies showed a good surgical result in 14 patients (87%). Flow characteristics and flow velocities within the Fontan circulation could be assessed immediately after the patient came off cardiopulmonary bypass by means of combined pulsed wave Doppler and colour flow mapping in 14 of the 16 patients. Cross sectional studies of the left heart after bypass showed no change in ventricular function and allowed monitoring of volume replacement and ventricular filling. Intraoperative ultrasound was a valuable monitoring technique in patients undergoing a Fontan-type procedure. It refined preoperative diagnosis, monitored ventricular function, and identified or excluded residual haemodynamic lesions in most patients. 
Postoperative vasospasm after antegrade mesenteric revascularization: a report of three cases. Vascular reconstruction for chronic intestinal ischemia can be accomplished by endarterectomy or aortomesenteric bypass. In our practice, antegrade bypasses from the supraceliac aorta to the celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery are currently the most frequently used techniques. Such reconstructions often use multiple or bifurcated large diameter vascular prostheses and have demonstrated excellent long-term patency. Despite these salutory results, we have noted an unusual perioperative response in three of these patients, which is the subject of this report. All three patients underwent uncomplicated elective mesenteric revascularization with grafts (diameter greater than or equal to 6 mm) originating in the supraceliac aorta. Indications for operation included (1) history of postprandial pain, (2) documentation of weight loss, and (3) angiographic evidence of advanced atherosclerotic disease with appropriate collateral development. Episodes of abdominal pain occurred 5 to 20 days after operation when normal food intake was reinstituted. In two patients immediate angiograms revealed patent grafts with diffuse mesenteric vasospasm. Treatment with intravenous hyperalimentation and nifedipine for 10 days resulted in complete resolution of symptoms. In the third patient, symptoms were totally relieved by temporary reduction in oral intake and administration of nifedipine. A later angiogram revealed a patent graft. All patients have remained asymptomatic and regained normal weight. This pattern of postrevascularization pain has not been seen in our patients undergoing revascularization with small (i.e., venous) conduits originating in the infrarenal aorta. The cause appears to be a heightened myogenic response of a "protected" vascular bed when suddenly exposed to the high perfusion pressure and blood flow of large caliber antegrade conduits. Prophylaxis with calcium channel blockers and use of smaller diameter grafts (5 mm) may avoid this disturbing syndrome. 
Hypoplastic left heart syndrome. The evolution of the present approach to the newborn with hypoplastic left heart is outlined. Preoperatively, maintenance of ductal patency with prostaglandin E1 and balancing of systemic and pulmonary blood flow are essential. Operative details of the first-stage palliation and the definitive second-stage procedure are described. The more recent adoption of an intermediate-stage hemi-Fontan procedure is also described. Since January 1989, 151 patients have been treated using this three-stage approach, with 109 early survivors. Seventy-eight have undergone the hemi-Fontan operation with nine deaths (5 of whom came to this stage early nonelectively because of shunt failure or ventricular dysfunction). Twenty-seven of the 78 patients undergoing hemi-Fontan operation have subsequently undergone definitive Fontan procedures with no deaths. 
Acute leukemia/lymphoma of plasmacytoid T-cell type. Plasmacytic morphologic characteristics are usually associated with cells of B-lymphocyte origin. Recently, plasmacytoid T-cells have been described in reactive lymph nodes and a rare form of lymphoma characteristically associated with myeloproliferative disorders. This report documents a case of plasmacytoid T-cell malignancy that initially presented as an acute leukemia in an elderly man with a longstanding myelodysplastic syndrome. The tumor replaced bone marrow and involved lymph nodes. Despite aggressive therapy, he died quickly of his leukemia/lymphoma. This case illustrates the need for complete cellular analysis in the diagnosis of morphologically plasmacytic malignancies and raises additional questions about the relationship of this peculiar type of T-cell to the hematopoietic marrow. 
Intracranial metastases from malignant pleural mesothelioma. Report of three autopsy cases and review of the literature. We report three cases of brain metastases from malignant pleural mesothelioma that were seen at autopsy. We present a summarized review of 15 similar reports that were previously published. Our study included three aged male patients with a long occupational history of heavy asbestos exposure. In two patients, the metastases were discovered incidentally at autopsy, and there were no neurologic symptoms referred to before death. In the other patient, who had clinically occult mesothelioma, the intracranial tumor was discovered ante mortem: in this patient, the clinical features, as well as a computed tomographic scan, suggested a primary tumor of the brain. Interestingly, the histologic features of the latter case that were seen at autopsy depicted a spindle cell tumor that focally exhibited pseudopalisading, necrosis, vascular buds, which deceptively recalled a glioblastoma. All the three cases shared a basic sarcomatous pattern of malignant pleural mesothelioma in both primary and metastatic tumors. The immunohistochemical profile was consistent with such interpretation. It was concluded that metastases to the brain from malignant pleural mesothelioma, although rare, are not exceptional even if their clinical relevance is not prominent. They are seen concomitantly with high-grade tumors, and by mimicking a primary tumor on a clinical, instrumental, and histologic ground, they may occasionally represent a potential source of diagnostic pitfall. 
Chronic beta-adrenoceptor blockade prevents the development of beta-adrenergic subsensitivity in experimental right-sided congestive heart failure in dogs. BACKGROUND. The reductions of myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor density and responsiveness to catecholamines in congestive heart failure are associated with excessive sympathetic stimulation. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the myocardial changes could be prevented by beta-receptor blockade. METHODS AND RESULTS. We administered the oral beta-receptor blocking agent nadolol (40 mg/day) to dogs during an early stage of experimental right heart failure and to sham-operated dogs for 5 weeks. Animals receiving no nadolol were studied concurrently. Nadolol treatment did not prevent right ventricular hypertrophy or elevated concentrations of plasma norepinephrine that occurred in right heart failure, nor did it affect the decrease in myocardial norepinephrine content and norepinephrine uptake activity, suggesting that the hemodynamic stress imposed on the right ventricle of dogs with right heart failure was similar regardless of the presence or absence of beta-receptor blockade. Resting heart rate, right atrial pressure, aortic pressure, cardiac output, right ventricular dP/dt, and left ventricular dP/dt and dP/dt/P measured 5 days after discontinuation of nadolol did not differ significantly from those without nadolol treatment in either right heart failure or sham-operated animals. Sham-operated dogs also showed no changes in myocardial beta-receptor or adenylate cyclase activity after nadolol treatment. However, nadolol treatment prevented the reduction of myocardial beta-receptor density and attenuated the decrease in the cardiac beta-adrenergic sensitivity that occurred in right heart failure. CONCLUSIONS. Excessive sympathetic stimulation may play an important role in the development of beta-receptor downregulation and beta-adrenergic subsensitivity in right heart failure. 
Oval cell proliferation and the origin of small hepatocytes in liver injury induced by D-galactosamine. Oval cells may function as facultative liver stem cells and tumor progenitors in liver carcinogenesis. The authors determined whether oval cells proliferate and if small hepatocytes might be generated from epithelial cell progenitors in noncarcinogenic liver injury. The authors found that oval cells similar to those detected in early carcinogenesis proliferate in response to D-galactosamine (GaIN). Oval cells expressed gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity, bile duct-type cytokeratins and peanut agglutinin binding. Two unusual types of hepatocytes also appeared after injury: small hepatocytes (less than or equal to 16 microns in diameter) and hepatocytes lining atypical ductlike structures. In situ hybridization studies showed that the fetal form of alphafetoprotein mRNA was expressed by many oval cells, some bile duct cells, and occasional hepatocytes. By following the fate of epithelial cells labeled early after GaIN administration, the authors conclude that duct cells can generate both oval cells and small hepatocytes in response to GaIN. 
Protection from rotavirus reinfection: 2-year prospective study. To measure protection induced by natural rotavirus infection, 163 infants enrolled in a rotavirus vaccine trial were prospectively followed for 2 years. Serotype 1 rotaviruses were the predominant circulating strains during the study. Over the 2 years of observation, significantly fewer infants infected before enrollment developed a symptomatic reinfection (0 of 21) or any reinfection (4 of 21) compared with previously uninfected infants (P = .0003). Of the 60 infants who developed a primary rotavirus infection in the first year (40 symptomatic, 20 asymptomatic) only 4 were reinfected in the second year compared with 29 of 82 subjects not previously infected (P = .00003). Asymptomatic primary infection appeared to be as protective as symptomatic primary infection. The only symptomatic reinfections occurred in 2 subjects who did not develop rotavirus antibody after the initial detection of rotavirus. An age-related reduction in the ratio of symptomatic to asymptomatic primary rotavirus infection was also detected. In this study, protection against homotypic serotype 1 reinfection appeared to last greater than or equal to 2 years. 
A 50-year follow-up of childhood plumbism. Hypertension, renal function, and hemoglobin levels among survivors. A group of 192 subjects with well-documented lead poisoning in 1930 to 1942 were identified in this pilot study. Thirty-five of 72 survivors traced to a Boston area address and 22 age-, sex-, race-, and neighborhood-matched controls were recruited into a clinical study. One matched subject with plumbism had grossly abnormal renal function and an elevated blood lead level of an unclear cause. Among the remaining 21 matched pairs, the risk of hypertension was significantly higher in subjects with plumbism (relative risk, 7.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 42.3). Mean adjusted creatinine clearance rates for subjects with plumbism, however, were significantly higher than those of controls and supranormal in comparison to rates predicted for sex and age. Subjects with plumbism had significantly lower hemoglobin concentrations and hematocrit readings than the controls. Blood lead and serum creatinine levels were low for both groups. These results suggest that survivors of childhood lead poisoning have an increased risk of clinically significant hypertension developing in the setting of supranormal creatinine clearance rates. 
Dilatation of ascending aorta in patients with repaired coarctation. The long-term outcome following repair of typical aortic coarctation in adulthood may be complicated by disorders of the ascending aorta. Follow-up averaging 15 years revealed a 3.8% incidence of dilatation of the ascending aorta after such late repair. Hypertension and concomitant aortic valvular disease were common in these patients. Aortic dilatation can appear years after coarctation repair, irrespective of the operative technique and its success, and can lead to death from aortic dissection or rupture of an aortic aneurysm. Careful follow-up after coarctation repair in adulthood is advisable to detect late aortic complications. 
Ifosfamide plus etoposide combined with regional hyperthermia in patients with locally advanced sarcomas: a phase II study. From July 1986 to July 1989, 40 patients (92% pretreated) with deep-seated, advanced soft tissue sarcomas (STS, 25 patients), Ewing's sarcomas (ES, eight patients), osteosarcomas (OS, three patients) and chondrosarcomas (ChS, four patients) were treated at the University of Munich in a protocol involving regional hyperthermia (RHT) combined with ifosfamide plus etoposide. A total of 265 RHT treatments (mean, 6.6 RHT per patient) were applied including 33 pelvic, four extremity, and three abdominal sites. The mean tumor volume was 537 cc (range, 50 to 2,980 cc). For systemic chemotherapy, all patients received ifosfamide (1.5 g/m2, days 1 to 5), etoposide (100 mg/m2, days 1, 3, and 5), and mesna (300 mg/m2 x 4, days 1 to 5) with RHT given only on days 1 and 5 in repeated cycles every 4 weeks. Acute toxicity consisted primarily of pain (57%) combined with local discomfort within the annular phased array applicator (AA) of the BSD hyperthermia system (BSD Medical Corp, Salt Lake City, UT). The average maximum systemic temperature was 37.4 +/- 0.5 degrees C, and there was no indication of enhanced bone marrow toxicity due to the addition of RHT to the systemic chemotherapy. Detailed thermal mapping by invasive thermometry was performed in all patients. In 38 assessable patients, the overall objective response rate was 37%: six complete responses (CRs), four partial responses (PRs), and four favorable histologic responses (FHRs) (95% confidence limits, 22% to 54%). Complete responders are alive and disease-free at 40, 35, 23, 19, 19, and 8 months. Of patients with PR and FHR, two died from metastatic disease after 4 and 17 months and one died from other disease after 27 months. The remaining five patients are stable at 37, 25, 21, 13, and 8 months. Eleven patients showed no change (NC), and 13 patients showed local tumor progression (PD). The mean observation time for all patients was 11.6 months. The time-averaged temperatures (Ts) of all RHT treatments calculated as 20% (T20), 50% (T50), or 90% (T90) of measured tumor sites differed significantly between responders and nonresponders (T20, P = .003; T50, P = .006; and T90, P = .004; respectively). These data support activity for ifosfamide-etoposide combined with RHT in pretreated patients with advanced sarcomas. 
Mycoplasma pneumoniae as the causative agent for pneumonia in the immunocompromised host. A young man undergoing chemotherapy for Ewing's sarcoma presented with fever, neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and a new infiltrate on the chest roentgenogram. Routine cultures and cytopathologic examination of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid provided no evidence for an etiology; however, special cultures of the BAL fluid demonstrated heavy growth of Mycoplasma pneumoniae. We recommend that evaluation of pneumonia in the immuno-compromised host include appropriate cultures of BAL fluid for M pneumoniae, particularly when the patient is 5 to 25 years old, the age of high incidence of mycoplasmal pneumonia. 
Frontal sinus carcinoma presenting as acute sinusitis. Primary carcinoma of the frontal sinus is extremely rare. The aetiology of the tumour remains obscure, and even with rapid diagnosis and radical surgery the prognosis remains very poor. 
Clinical significance of a dizziness history in medical patients with syncope. To determine the implications of dizziness as a symptom in patients with syncope, we analyzed responses to a standardized battery of questions about dizziness in 121 consecutive patients referred for evaluation of syncope. Associations were sought between final diagnosis (dependent variable) and clinical predictor variables. Dizziness was found in 70% of the patients with syncope. Dizzy patients were younger (mean ages, 47 vs 56 years, respectively), more often female (75% vs 42%), and more likely to be assigned a psychiatric diagnosis. Multivariable logistic regression analysis identified young age and rotatory dizziness (vertigo) to be associated with a psychiatric diagnosis. Dizziness and syncope frequently coexist and in many cases may represent the same pathophysiologic process. A careful dizziness history may guide the initial evaluation of syncope patients in clinical practice. 
Attenuation of IL-2-induced multisystem organ edema by phalloidin and antamanide. Interleukin 2 (IL-2) is a potent cytokine with diverse effects, including the ability to stimulate lymphocyte differentiation into cells capable of lysing tumor. Its therapeutic efficacy is limited because of side effects such as breakdown of the microvascular barrier and edema. Control of the microvascular barrier is in part regulated by endothelial cell cytoskeletal contractile proteins. This study tests whether the cyclopeptides that maintain actin filament organization and distribution and reduce macromolecular flux across the endothelial cell junction in vitro would similarly maintain barrier tightness and prevent early edema produced by IL-2 in vivo. Anesthetized rats were treated at 30-min periods with intravenous saline (0.5 ml, n = 41), phalloidin (20 micrograms in 0.5 ml, n = 21), or antamanide, (20 micrograms in 0.5 ml, n = 21), starting 30 min before the 1-h infusion of 10(6) U of recombinant human IL-2 or saline. Six hours after the start of IL-2, there was edema in the saline/IL-2 group, as measured by increased wet-to-dry ratios (W/D) in the lungs, heart, and kidney. With saline/IL-2, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid contained an elevated protein concentration and higher plasma thromboxane levels compared with controls. The number of neutrophils sequestered in the lungs was more than twice that of saline controls. Phalloidin significantly attenuated edema in lung and reduced BAL protein leak. Antamanide treatment was as effective in limiting lung and heart edema, but, in contrast to phalloidin, antamanide prevented kidney edema and did not lead to an alteration in the liver W/D. Antamanide also prevented BAL fluid protein leak. 
Current treatment for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome: results and surgical implications. From July 1986 to January 1991, 123 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome underwent operation for ablation of aberrant conduction pathways. There were 85 male and 38 female patients ranging in age from 11 months to 68 years. Associated anomalies included Ebstein's anomaly, sudden death syndrome, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, abdominal aortic aneurysm, neurofibromatosis, other arrhythmias, or other complex congenital heart disease. Forty-one patients had multiple accessory pathways. Operative results showed a 7% initial failure rate, which dropped to 3% after reoperation. One patient had undergone previous operation for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome at another institution. Procedures performed concomitantly included mitral or tricuspid valve repair or replacement (6), right ventricular conduit replacement, subaortic resection, Fontan repair, corrected transposition repair, coronary artery bypass, and placement of an automatic internal cardioverter defibrillator. There was no operative mortality. Late follow-up is 27 +/- 16 months, and complications included mitral regurgitation and myocardial infarction. By comparison, in the last 12 months 124 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome underwent catheter ablation using radiofrequency current. There were 9 patients with multiple pathways. One hundred twelve patients (90%) had all accessory atrioventricular connections ablated and have remained free of symptomatic tachycardia. There have been 12 failures (10%), of which 5 have had operation and 7 are being treated medically. Mean follow-up is 7 +/- 5 months, and complications included circumflex coronary artery occlusion, excessive bleeding, valve perforation, and cerebral vascular accident. 
Intermittent ischemia potentiates intestinal reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that even brief periods of reperfusion interjected between ischemic episodes would increase tissue injury. Studies were performed in a rat small intestine preparation in which metabolic, hemodynamic, and histologic responses to ischemia have been well characterized. Animals were subjected to a total of 30 or 45 minutes of complete intestinal ischemia. Flow interruption was continuous (C, single episode) or intermittent (I, two or three episodes of 15-minute ischemia separated by 5 minutes of reperfusion). In some experiments 5-minute reperfusions were performed with arterial blood depleted of leukocytes (IL). This additional perturbation was included to determine the role of neutrophils that have been strongly implicated in reperfusion injury. In all three protocols histologic sections were obtained after each ischemic insult and after 1 hour of reperfusion with arterial blood. Villous histology was graded in a blinded fashion with 1 = normal and 5 = severe injury. No significant differences were found between groups in immediate postischemic histologies before reperfusion. After 1 hour of reperfusion, intermittent episodes of ischemia were associated with significantly worse histologic injury than that seen with comparable durations of continuous ischemia (30 min: I, 4.4 +/- 0.5 vs C, 2.7 +/- 0.4; 45 min: I, 4.9 +/- 0.2 vs C, 2.8 +/- 0.3). However, if 5-minute reperfusions were with leukopenic blood, this effect was markedly reduced (30 min IL, 3.4 +/- 0.3; 45 min IL, 3.6 +/- 0.2). Even short periods of reperfusion during an ischemic insult greatly increased mucosal injury. 
Combination antihypertensive therapy with terazosin and other antihypertensive agents: results of clinical trials. Clinical trials in which the selective alpha 1-adrenergic receptor blocker terazosin was given in combination with other antihypertensive agents are reviewed. Results of a recent study examining the effects of combination terazosin and verapamil therapy on blood pressure and heart rate are also presented. In several studies of the combination of terazosin plus a diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide, methyclothiazide, chlorthalidone, furosemide, amiloride, triamterene, metolazone, or spironolactone), significant decreases in one or more of the blood pressure variables studied were demonstrated (compared with diuretic plus placebo). In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study of terazosin plus atenolol, supine and standing blood pressures decreased significantly from baseline (atenolol monotherapy) after the addition of terazosin but not placebo. In a study of terazosin added to background therapy (including beta-blockers, diuretics, methyldopa, clonidine, captopril, guanethidine, hydralazine, and nifedipine), the addition of terazosin resulted in significant decreases in supine and standing diastolic blood pressures compared with baseline values (background therapy alone). Combination antihypertensive therapy with terazosin and verapamil reduced blood pressure to a significantly greater extent than either agent alone. Preliminary pharmacokinetic results indicate that terazosin did not alter the metabolism of verapamil. No significant abnormal laboratory test results have been reported for patients taking terazosin in combination with other antihypertensive agents; in fact some evidence suggests that terazosin may attenuate adverse lipid, glucose, and potassium changes associated with thiazide diuretics. Adverse experiences associated with terazosin combination therapy are usually mild to moderate. Results from all these studies suggest that terazosin effectively controls mild-to-moderate hypertension when it is used in combination with other antihypertensive agents without cumulative adverse effects. 
Repressor to activator switch by mutations in the first Zn finger of the glucocorticoid receptor: is direct DNA binding necessary? Transfection of HeLa cells with cDNA vectors expressing the wild-type human glucocorticoid receptor (GR) enabled dexamethasone to strongly repress cytokine- and second messenger-induced expression of cotransfected chimeric reporter genes containing transcription regulatory DNA elements from the human interleukin 6 (IL-6) promoter. Deletion of the DNA-binding domain or of the second Zn finger or a point mutation in the Zn catenation site in the second finger blocked the ability of GR to mediate repression of the IL-6 promoter. Unexpectedly, deletion of the first Zn finger, a point mutation in the Zn-catenation site in the first finger, or one in the steroid-specificity domain at the base of the first finger converted GR into a dexamethasone-responsive activator that enhanced basal and interleukin 1-induced IL-6 promoter function. These first-finger mutants of GR also mediated dexamethasone-responsive enhancement of expression of the herpesvirus thymidine kinase-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (TK-105-CAT and TK-80-CAT) reporter genes but not of the murine mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat-CAT or the c-fos-CAT (pFC700) reporter genes. Wild-type GR was able to specifically bind to DNA fragments containing glucocorticoid response element sequences in both the murine mammary tumor virus and IL-6 promoters, albeit weakly to the latter, in a sequential DNA-binding immunoprecipitation assay. The first-finger mutants of GR, however, were inactive in this assay. Thus, mutations in the first Zn finger unmask unusual promoter-specific activation properties of GR that may not require direct high-affinity binding of the mutant GR to target DNA. 
Radiation exposure of pediatric patients and physicians during cardiac catheterization and balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. Thermoluminescent dosimeters were applied to various areas of 61 pediatric patients and physicians to measure radiation doses during routine cardiac catheterization and during 4 cases of balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. Radiation doses were measured during chest roentgenography, fluoroscopy and cineangiography. Average skin dose to the chest was 121 microGy during chest x-ray, 5,182 microGy during catheterization and 641 mGy during valvuloplasty. For the eyes, thyroid and gonads of the patients, the exposure during routine catheterization was equal to 0.4, 6 and 0.2 chest x-rays, respectively. Radiation dose of the operator was 3 microGy for the eyes and 6 miCroGy in the thyroid. About 56% of the operator's dose could be reduced by thyroid shields, and 80% by lead aprons. The assistant received only 1 microGy outside the thyroid shield. Therefore, we have concluded that the patients' dose during routine catheterization is largely based on our experimental results, but the dose is acceptable based on the risk factor analysis. The skin dose to the right lateral chest of the patient during valvuloplasty is extremely high, perhaps as high as the equivalent of 1,000 chest x-rays. Besides the clinical benefits of valvuloplasty, the long-term radiation-related hazards to the patient should be carefully monitored. 
Variables controlling the secretion of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 in normal human subjects. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 (IGFBP-2) is one of a family of IGFBPs that are present in extracellular fluids, and binds both IGF-II and IGF-I with high affinity. These studies were conducted to determine the nutritional and hormonal variables that regulate plasma IGFBP-2 concentrations in humans. The mean plasma IGFBP-2 concentration for 38 normal adult subjects was 150 +/- 61 micrograms/L and was 4.7-fold greater than their mean fasting IGFBP-1 value. Mean IGFBP-2 values in cord sera of 26 normal term infants was 3.8-fold greater than the normal adult mean value. Likewise, the mean value for 44 hypopituitary adults was increased 2-fold compared to normal. There was no suppression of IGFBP-2 values in acromegaly. Normal adult subjects showed minimal fluctuations (less than 2-fold changes) in plasma IGFBP-2 concentrations during a 48-h sampling period. These changes were significantly less than the changes that occurred in plasma IGFBP-1 during the same interval. Plasma IGFBP-2 did not change significantly post prandially or after a glucose infusion. Extreme insulin deficiency, after 9 days of fasting, was associated with a 1.7-fold increase in plasma IGFBP-2. Administration of GH, which is known to cause a major decrease in plasma IGFBP-1 and in IGFBP-2 in hypophysectomized animals, did not result in a change in calorically restricted normal adult subjects, suggesting that a normal caloric intake is required for GH to suppress IGFBP-2. In summary, these results show that plasma IGFBP-2 is regulated differently than IGFBP-1. Acute stimulation of insulin secretion does not suppress IGFBP-2, and there is much less daily fluctuation compared to IGFBP-1. These findings suggest that plasma IGFBP-2 levels are more stable than IGFBP-1, and therefore IGFBP-2 may serve as a larger reservior that is available for IGF transport. 
Infarction in focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. A case report. An unusual case of focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver with infarction is presented. The patient, a 16-year-old girl with a three-year history of oral contraceptive use, presented with a two-week history of intermittent abdominal pain. Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver and the role of estrogens in the development of this lesion are discussed. 
Solitary pulmonary nodule: high-resolution CT and radiologic-pathologic correlation. Edge and internal characteristics of pulmonary nodules evaluated with high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) were correlated with the pathologic specimens in 93 patients. Speculation correlated pathologically with irregular fibrosis, localized lymphatic spread of tumor, or an infiltrative tumor growth pattern and was observed in six of 11 benign nodules (55%) and 74 of 85 malignant nodules (87%). Pleural tags were observed in three benign nodules (27%) and 49 malignant lesions (58%); pathologically, these represented fibrotic bands usually associated with juxta-cicatricial pleural retraction. Bubblelike areas of low attenuation within the nodule were observed in 21 malignant lesions (25%) and only one benign nodule (9%). They were observed most commonly in bronchioloalveolar carcinomas (seven of 14) and were due either to patent small bronchi or small, cystic spaces within neoplastic glands. Malignant nodules as a group were larger than benign lesions (P = .02) and more commonly demonstrated a spiculated contour (P less than .05), lobulation (P less than .001), and inhomogeneous attenuation (P less than .05). 
The association of bullous pemphigoid and malignant disease: a case control study. In a case control study, the incidence of malignant disease in 84 patients with bullous pemphigoid (BP) was compared with 168 controls. The rate of malignant disease (past, concurrent or during follow-up) in BP patients was 17.9% compared to 5.3% in the controls. A number of the malignancies occurring in the BP group may be of doubtful significance, being either temporally very remote or partially attributable to treatment. The rate of concurrent BP and malignancy (within 8 weeks) was 6.0% suggesting that there is probably a slight excess of malignancy in BP, but insufficient to warrant extensive investigation in pursuit of cancer. Comparison of the BP patients with and without cancer identified no clinical or immunopathological subgroups in whom investigations would be indicated. Three patients with both BP and malignancy were HLA-DR 13 positive, which may point to an immunogenetic predisposition to both diseases. 
Oxygen transport during steady-state submaximal exercise in chronic hypoxia. Arterial O2 delivery during short-term submaximal exercise falls on arrival at high altitude but thereafter remains constant. As arterial O2 content increases with acclimatization, blood flow falls. We evaluated several factors that could influence O2 delivery during more prolonged submaximal exercise after acclimatization at 4,300 m. Seven men (23 +/- 2 yr) performed 45 min of steady-state submaximal exercise at sea level (barometric pressure 751 Torr), on acute ascent to 4,300 m (barometric pressure 463 Torr), and after 21 days of residence at altitude. The O2 uptake (VO2) was constant during exercise, 51 +/- 1% of maximal VO2 at sea level, and 65 +/- 2% VO2 at 4,300 m. After acclimatization, exercise cardiac output decreased 25 +/- 3% compared with arrival and leg blood flow decreased 18 +/- 3% (P less than 0.05), with no change in the percentage of cardiac output to the leg. Hemoglobin concentration and arterial O2 saturation increased, but total body and leg O2 delivery remained unchanged. After acclimatization, a reduction in plasma volume was offset by an increase in erythrocyte volume, and total blood volume did not change. Mean systemic arterial pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and leg vascular resistance were all greater after acclimatization (P less than 0.05). Mean plasma norepinephrine levels also increased during exercise in a parallel fashion with increased vascular resistance. Thus we conclude that both total body and leg O2 delivery decrease after arrival at 4,300 m and remain unchanged with acclimatization as a result of a parallel fall in both cardiac output and leg blood flow and an increase in arterial O2 content. 
Positron emission tomography for the assessment of myocardial viability. The detection of viable myocardium or ischemically injured myocardium with a reversible impairment of contractile function remains clinically important but challenging. Detection of reversible dysfunction and distinction from irreversible tissue injury by positron emission tomography is based on identification of preserved or even enhanced glucose metabolism with F-18 2-fluoro 2-deoxyglucose. Regional patterns of myocardial glucose utilization and blood flow, defined as perfusion-metabolism mismatches or matches, on positron emission tomography in patients with chronic or even acute ischemic heart disease are highly accurate in predicting the functional outcome after interventional revascularization. Compared with thallium-201 redistribution scintigraphy, positron emission tomography appears to be diagnostically more accurate, especially in patients with severely impaired left ventricular function. While larger clinical trials are needed for further confirmation, positron emission tomography has already proved clinically useful for stratifying patients with poor left ventricular function to the most appropriate therapeutic approach. 
Treatment of peptic ulcer disease with sucralfate: a review. Sucralfate has been used widely for the treatment of peptic ulcer. Healing rates for duodenal ulcer range from 60 to 90% at 4-6 weeks and up to 90% at 12 weeks for gastric ulcer. The small number of maintenance trials suggest that relapse of duodenal ulcer is reduced comparably to H2 receptor antagonists. There has been considerable interest in the possibility of lower relapse ratios after initial healing with sucralfate compared with H2 receptor antagonists, but more studies of the possible mechanisms as well as larger trials are still needed to confirm these observations. 
Enzymic control of the expression of the X determinant (CD15) in human myeloid cells during maturation: the regulatory role of 6-sialytransferase. To establish the basis for the reduced expression of the X determinant on leukemic blasts and the changes in antigenic expression that occur during myeloid maturation, the presence on myeloid cells of X and related structures was examined in conjunction with studies on the activities of the glycosyltransferases involved in their biosynthesis. Expression of X and sialyl-X was weak on blasts in comparison with neutrophils despite the presence of the requisite precursor structures. Much higher levels of 3-fucosyltransferase activity were found in blasts than in neutrophils when nonsialylated substrates were used, but, whereas the enzyme in neutrophils reacted equally well with 3'-sialylated and nonsialylated acceptors, the enzyme in blasts showed a marked preference for nonsialylated substrates. 6'-Sialyltransferase activity was strong in blasts but was not detectable in neutrophils, whereas a much lower level of 3'-sialyltransferase activity was present in both blasts and neutrophils. Dimethyl sulfoxide-induced maturation of HL60 cells was associated with (1) a decrease in both 6'-sialyltransferase and 3-fucosyltransferase activities, (2) a change in the substrate specificity of 3-fucosyltransferase towards that found in mature cells, and (3) increased cell surface expression of sialyl-X. These results suggest that the reduced expression of X in myeloblasts is related to the presence of the strong 6'-sialyltransferase, which uses the precursor substrate at the expense of the 3-fucosyltransferase and prevents the synthesis of X and sialyl-X. The developmental regulation of the levels of 3'- and 6'-sialyltransferases, and the level and specificity of the 3-fucosyltransferases, therefore controls the expression of X and its degree of sialylation. 
Vitamin B6 and valproic acid in treatment of infantile spasms. Twenty patients with infantile spasms were treated with high doses of vitamin b6, valproic acid, or both. Three of 13 patients (23%) treated initially with high doses of vitamin B6 demonstrated a definite reduction in seizures; 2 patients had no improvement on electroencephalography. Vitamin B6 therapy alone was continued in a single patient (8%) who remained seizure-free during the 15-month follow-up period. Initial treatment with vitamin B6 and valproic acid improved the electroencephalogram significantly more (P less than 0.05) than initial vitamin B6 treatment alone. The group which had valproic acid added to vitamin B6 therapy had significantly fewer seizures (P less than 0.05) and better electroencephalograms (P less than 0.01) than did the group treated initially with vitamin B6 alone. There were no significant differences among the group treated initially with vitamin B6, the group treated initially with valproic acid, and the group in which valproic acid was substituted for vitamin B6. ACTH was more effective in abolishing seizures than was valproic acid or vitamin B6 and valproic acid. ACTH had an excellent effect on seizures in 86% of patients who did not respond well to vitamin B6, valproic acid, or both; however, many of these patients had later recurrence of infantile spasms. The combination of vitamin B6 and valproic acid is effective and safe in the treatment of infantile spasms. 
Natural history and prognostic variables in primary sclerosing cholangitis. The clinical features at the time of presentation and the outcome in 126 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were studied to clarify the natural history and prognosis in symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals. The median age of the patients at the time of presentation was 36 years, 62% were male, and 16% were asymptomatic. The median follow-up from time of presentation was 5.8 years. There were more patients who had liver transplants (21%) than patients who died of liver-related disease (16%); the estimated median survival to these end points was 12 years. Cholangiocarcinoma was found in 8 patients and in 23% of those undergoing liver transplantation. Asymptomatic patients had milder disease than symptomatic patients, but in a univariate analysis the presence of symptoms was not prognostically significant. On multivariate analysis, the following independent prognostic factors were found: hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, serum alkaline phosphatase, histological stage, and age. These features were combined to produce a prognostic model that should be valuable in the stratification of patients in clinical trials and in the timing of liver transplantation, particularly in those patients seen soon after presentation. 
Intensive therapy for small-cell lung cancer using carboplatin alternating with cisplatin, ifosfamide, etoposide, mid-cycle vincristine, and radiotherapy. Forty patients with small-cell lung cancer (31 patients with limited-stage [LS] disease, and nine patients with extensive-stage [ES] disease but of good performance status) have been treated with an intensive therapy composed of carboplatin alternating with cisplatin, ifosfamide, and etoposide with vincristine on day 14 of each carboplatin cycle. A maximum of six cycles were administered at 3 weekly intervals after the cisplatin combination and 4 weekly after the carboplatin combination. Prophylactic cranial irradiation was given with the first cycle of chemotherapy and thoracic irradiation with the third cycle. The median nadir for neutrophils was 0.47 x 10(9)/L and for platelets, 40 x 10(9)/L. Chemotherapy dosages were not reduced in response to myelosuppression, but treatment was delayed to allow blood count recovery. Sixty-eight percent of patients received all six cycles of chemotherapy, and there were four deaths associated with treatment-related neutropenia. Twenty-eight patients (70%) achieved a complete response (CR) when assessed 1 month after the end of treatment, and a further five patients (12.5%) had a partial response (PR). Median duration of CR was 16 months and of PR, 8 months. Cerebral metastases occurred in 20% of all patients and was the apparent sole site of relapse in 11% of the CR patients. The median survival of the total group was 14 months with an actual 2-year survival of 30% and a minimum follow-up of 28 months. 
Cervical bruits: clinical correlates of stenosis. To analyze the relationship among characteristics of buits, degree of underlying stenosis, and neurologic symptom complexes, the authors studied 157 patients with bruits undergoing digital subtraction angiography. Symptom status assignment (definite lateralizing, possible lateralizing, vertebrobasilar, diffuse, and asymptomatic) and cervical auscultation for location, duration, and other bruit characteristics were performed independently. Bruit occurrence was associated with stenosis of greater than or equal to 50% of the underlying vessel with the association being no stronger at higher levels of stenosis (greater than or equal to 80%). No relationship existed between the side of bruit and side of symptoms in those with lateralized symptoms. The authors found more severe degrees of carotid stenosis in two symptomatic groups (vertebrobasilar insufficiency [VBI] and definite lateralized) compared with asymptomatic patients. Those with VBI had more high-grade stenosis, whereas those with lateralized symptoms had more occlusions, which tended to be ipsilateral to the symptoms. 
Complement activation during bypass in acquired C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency. Serial complement estimations during cardiopulmonary bypass are reported in a patient with acquired C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency. Although the extent of classic and alternative pathway activation appeared appropriate, exaggerated common pathway activation with massive increase in the C3d:C3 ratio occurred. A fatal hemostatic disorder, pulmonary edema, and circulatory collapse ensued despite prophylaxis and therapy. 
Myeloablative combination chemotherapy without total body irradiation for neuroblastoma. Myeloablative treatment intensification in 25 patients diagnosed when older than 12 months of age with stage IV neuroblastoma included sequential delivery of cisplatin 120 mg/m2 x 1, hyperfractionated radiation (2,100 cGy) to the primary site and adjacent lymph nodes, carmustine (BCNU) 200 mg/m2 x 1, melphalan 60 mg/m2/d x 3 (n = 13) or thiotepa 300 mg/m2/d x 3. (n = 12), and etoposide (VP 16) 300 mg/m2/d x 3. Seventy-two hours after the last dose of VP 16, histologically tumor-free and 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC; 100 mumol/L)-purged autologous bone marrow (ABMT) was infused. Acute toxicities included grade 3 to 4 oral mucositis, grade 1 to 2 diarrhea, and fevers. No patient required infusion of unpurged reserve autografts. At ABMT, 16 patients (group I) were progression-free 6.5 months to 14 months (median, 9 months) from diagnosis: seven remain progression-free 20 months to 46 months (median, 39 months) off therapy, six relapsed 4 months to 17 months post-ABMT, and three died of toxicity (candidiasis, metabolic derangement, and venoocclusive disease [VOD]). The event-free survival of group I patients is 44% at 24 months post-ABMT. Nine patients (group II) were in second remission at ABMT, including three who had relapsed after other transplant procedures: two are progression-free 24 months and 41 months off therapy, four relapsed 3 months to 12 months post-ABMT, and three died of toxicity (aspergillosis, hemorrhagic cystitis, VOD). Only one of 10 relapses involved a primary site, suggesting a beneficial effect of local radiation. In terms of survival or toxicity, an advantage for melphalan or thiotepa was not evident. Regimens such as this may prolong the survival of selected patients with poor-risk neuroblastoma, but concerns over late relapses and toxicity mandate continuing efforts to devise alternative, less risky, and more clearly beneficial approaches for definitive ablation of neuroblastoma. 
Enalapril prevents cardiac fibrosis and arrhythmias in hypertensive rats. To evaluate the effects of hypertension on cardiac hypertrophy, on myocardial structure, and on ventricular arrhythmias, 27 3-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril (10 mg/kg) daily for 11 months and compared with 26 untreated control rats. Systolic arterial pressure was significantly decreased in treated rats, and at the end of the experiment, it was 199 +/- 3 mm Hg (treated) versus 237 +/- 3 mm Hg (controls) (p less than 0.001). At this time, spontaneous arrhythmias and induced arrhythmias either by programmed electrical stimulation (train of stimuli +1 or 2 extrastimuli) or by trains of eight stimuli at decreasing coupling intervals were observed in isolated heart preparations. Comparing enalapril-treated and control rats, spontaneous arrhythmias (9 of 27 versus 20 of 26, respectively; p less than 0.01), programmed stimulation-induced arrhythmias (3 of 26 versus 12 of 23, respectively; p less than 0.01), and trains of stimuli-induced arrhythmias (4 of 26 versus 14 of 19, respectively, p less than 0.001) were less frequent in the enalapril group. Left ventricular weight was decreased in treated rats by 18% (p less than 0.001). Enalapril administration diminished the fraction of myocardium occupied by foci of replacement fibrosis normally occurring in control rats by 59% (p less than 0.001). Finally, a significant correlation was found between left ventricular weight, the extent of myocardial fibrosis, and the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation. It was concluded that chronic treatment with enalapril, which resulted in attenuation of systemic arterial pressure by limiting cardiac hypertrophy and myocardial fibrosis, decreases the propensity of the heart of hypertensive rats to arrhythmogenesis. 
Bilateral carcinoma of the external auditory meatus. A 65-year-old woman had suffered for two months from bilateral tinnitus and discharge, pain in the right ear, and loss of hearing. Biopsy showed carcinoma of the squamous type on both sides. Tomography revealed bone destruction on the right. The patient was treated with radiotherapy. Two months after treatment, tomography showed tumour regression on the right side, but progression on the left. The literature on this subject is reviewed. 
Can computer aided teaching packages improve clinical care in patients with acute abdominal pain? OBJECTIVE--To compare three methods of support for inexperienced staff in their diagnosis and management of patients with acute abdominal pain--namely, with (a) structured data collection forms, (b) real time computer aided decision support, and (c) computer based teaching packages. DESIGN--Prospective assessment of effects of methods of support on groups of doctors in one urban hospital and one rural hospital. SETTING--Accident and emergency department at Whipps Cross Hospital, London, and surgical wards of Airedale General Hospital, West Yorkshire. PATIENTS--Consecutive prospective series of all patients presenting to each hospital in specified time periods with acute abdominal pain; total patients in the various periods were 12,506. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Diagnostic accuracy of participating doctors, admission rates of patients with non-specific abdominal pain, perforation rates in patients with appendicitis, negative laparotomy rates. RESULTS--Use of any one modality resulted in improved diagnostic accuracy and decision making performance. Use of structured forms plus computer feedback resulted in better performance than use of forms alone. Use of structured forms plus a computer teaching package gave results at least as good as those with direct feedback by computer. CONCLUSIONS--The results confirm earlier studies in suggesting that the use of computer aided decision support improves diagnostic and decision making performance when dealing with patients suffering from acute abdominal pain. That use of the computer for teaching gave results at least as good as with its use for direct feedback may be highly relevant for those who are apprehensive about the real time use of diagnostic computers in a clinical setting. 
Differential pathophysiology of bacterial translocation after thermal injury and sepsis. Bacterial translocation (BT) occurs transiently after thermal injury and may result from an ischemic intestinal insult. To evaluate continued intestinal ischemia in the ongoing BT associated with sepsis after injury, rats were randomized to (1) 30% burn injury with Pseudomonas wound infection (BI), (2) BI + fluid resuscitation (BI + Fluid), (3) BI after allopurinol pretreatment to inhibit xanthine oxidase (BI + Allo), or (4) BI after azapropazone pretreatment to inhibit neutrophil degranulation (BI + Aza). On postburn days (PBD) 1, 4, and 7, animals were studied for evidence of BT and intestinal lipid peroxidation. BI + Fluid, BI + Allo, and BI + Aza significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced rates of BT and ileal lipid peroxidation acutely after thermal injury (PBD 1) compared to BI. All four groups had equally high rates of BT associated with the onset of sepsis (PBDs 4 and 7), without evidence of further intestinal lipid peroxidation. These data indicate that the chronic gut barrier failure associated with sepsis after injury occurs independently of continued intestinal ischemia. 
Stroke in a young adult with Fletcher trait. We have reported the case of a young woman with prekallikrein deficiency who had a cerebral infarction despite a prolonged APTT. She had bleeding complications with heparin administration. From the limited information in the literature, anticoagulation may be hazardous in these patients, and it should be undertaken with caution. 
Efficacy and safety considerations in women with uterine leiomyomas treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists: the estrogen threshold hypothesis. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists induce a reversible hypogonadotropic hypogonadal environment. Leiomyomas are common, estrogen-sensitive, benign neoplasms that decrease in size by 40% to 50% during gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist treatment. During gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist therapy most women are amenorrheic. After discontinuation of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist treatment, uterine and myoma size increase and a return to pretreatment menstrual patterns often occurs. Concerns about the safety of long-term hypoestrogenism have made long-term gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist administration an undesirable treatment strategy. This article focuses on the use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists as preoperative therapy in selected women undergoing hysterectomy or myomectomy and the combination of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist with estrogen-progestin "add-back" treatment as a potential long-term medical therapy for women with symptomatic leiomyomas. Finally, an estrogen threshold hypothesis to assess the effects of circulating estrogen concentrations on different tissues, is presented. 
Globus pharyngeus: long-term follow-up and prognostic factors. A prospective trial of 80 patients with globus pharyngeus is reported. An in-depth analysis of the typical history at presentation is given. The average follow-up period was 27 months (range, 21 to 42 months). The asymptomatic rate at this interval was 25%, with a further 35% reporting a significant improvement in symptoms. Three independent factors were found to influence prognosis (p less than .05). These were sex, length of history at consultation, and the presence or absence of associated throat symptoms. Male patients having a history of the globus symptom for less than 3 months and not complaining of any associated throat symptoms had the best chance of becoming asymptomatic or symptomatically improved. The presence or absence of heartburn or its treatment had no bearing on outcome. 
Cardiac tamponade and hydrothorax as complications of central venous parenteral nutrition in infants. The recent use of soft catheters made of silastic polymeric silicone or polyurethane has decreased the incidence of perforation of great veins or right-sided heart chambers but has not eliminated it as had been hoped. Two premature infants who presented with cardiac tamponade more than 24 hr after the insertion of a 23-gauge silastic catheter for total parenteral nutrition (TPN) administration are described. In one infant, bilateral hydrothorax preceded the occurrence of cardiac tamponade. Osmotic injury to great vessels and/or myocardium seems to be the common mechanism but which these complications of intraluminal catheters are produced. Review of the pediatric literature revealed a proportion of low birth weight infants among the reported cases. Despite a prohibitively high mortality rate, early recognition can prevent a fatal outcome. 
Clipping of an aneurysm 20 years after encasement with methyl methacrylate. Case report. A variety of agents have been used to coat aneurysms as an alternative to clipping. These agents were employed more frequently prior to the routine use of the operating microscope and the presently available variety of aneurysm clips. One such coating agent is methyl methacrylate. This report describes a patient with an anterior communicating aneurysm that rebled 20 years after being encased in methyl methacrylate. At operation, the pulsating aneurysm had eroded the adjacent layer of methyl methacrylate, creating a small intervening space. This space allowed removal under the microscope (with a high-speed air drill and a diamond bit) of the methyl methacrylate from the anterior cerebral arteries and aneurysm, exposing it for definitive clip placement. The feasibility of clipping encased aneurysms is discussed. 
Acute venous thrombosis. Therapeutic choices for superficial and deep veins. Superficial thrombophlebitis is common in varicose veins or veins that have undergone trauma from catheters or intravenous medications. Pain and tenderness, warmth, and erythema are diagnostic features. A compression bandage and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent are often all that is required for treatment. Deep vein thrombosis occurs in veins beneath the deep fascia of the leg or in the pelvis or abdomen. It is often asymptomatic but must be treated to prevent pulmonary embolization and postthrombotic syndrome. Standard therapy is administration of heparin sodium for 5 days, followed by tapering and discontinuation. Warfarin sodium (Coumadin, Panwarfin, Sofarin) is sometimes given simultaneously. Longer courses of anti-coagulation therapy are necessary in patients with an ongoing risk of recurrence. 
Tumor necrosis factor. Tumor necrosis factor is important in systemic and cutaneous defense, homeostasis, and many disease states. The numerous and diverse effects of tumor necrosis factor are best understood when considered as concentration-dependent, with normal homeostasis progressing to defense followed by toxic effects. Understanding tumor necrosis factor is important for the dermatologist as more studies appear in our literature and potential clinical uses of tumor necrosis factor (and possible anti-tumor necrosis factor agents) are realized. 
Elevated tissue concentrations of sialyl Lex-i in cancerous tissues compared with those in noncancerous tissues of various organs. Sialyl Lex-i (SLX) concentrations in the extracts of noncancerous and cancerous tissues of various human organs were determined by radioimmunoassay for detailed evaluation of SLX. Cancerous tissues had significantly elevated SLX concentrations compared with noncancerous tissues of various organs. Tissue SLX concentration of the cancerous part was significantly higher than that of the adjacent noncancerous part in the same tissue. There was no significant correlation between tissue SLX concentration and serum SLX level. Positive localization of SLX was clearly observed in such cancerous tissues by immunohistochemical study, although not in any noncancerous tissues. Each of the antigens: SLX, CA 19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen, and CA 125 showed a different distribution pattern in tissue concentration or localization in various organs. These results indicate that SLX may be a valuable cancer-associated antigen produced by malignant tissues, suggesting its clinical application as a tumor marker. 
Multi-parameter flow cytometric quantitation of the expression of the tumor-associated antigen SM3 in normal and neoplastic ovarian tissues. A comparison with HMFG1 and HMFG2. SM3 is a monoclonal antibody that reacts with a peptide epitope in the core protein of polymorphic epithelial mucin. Multi-parameter flow cytometry was used to characterize the expression of SM3 and compare it with two related tumor-associated antigens, HMFG1 and HMFG2, in cell suspensions of 44 malignant ovarian tumors, 15 benign ovarian tumors, and 16 normal ovaries. Tumor-associated antigen expression was significantly higher in malignant ovarian neoplasms than in benign neoplasms (P less than 0.001 for all three antigens). SM3 was expressed more specifically in malignant than benign tumors but had a lower affinity than HMFG1 and HMFG2. Multi-parameter flow cytometric evaluation of a panel of monoclonal antibodies can be used to help in choosing the best antibody for immunohistochemistry, imaging, and eventually treatment of ovarian tumors. 
Isotopic findings in anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery: report of an adult case. Anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the main pulmonary trunk results in myocardial ischemia or infarction, and may be a cause of death in the first months of life. Some patients, however, develop satisfactory coronary collateral circulation and remain asymptomatic into adulthood. In these patients, myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function are not well understood. We report the case of a 17-yr-old female patient, suffering from anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the main pulmonary trunk, who underwent reimplantation of the left coronary artery to the aorta. The preoperative permanent 201Tl defect of the left antero-lateral ventricular wall and the abnormal regional wall motion induced by stress exercise testing were fully reversed after the operation. 
Effect of dietary alpha-linolenate on platelet-activating factor production in rat peritoneal polymorphonuclear leukocytes. The effects of dietary alpha-linolenate (18:3, n-3) and linoleate (18:2, n-6) on platelet-activating factor (PAF) production were examined. Rats were fed an alpha-linolenic acid-rich (perilla oil) diet or a linoleic acid-rich (safflower oil) diet for 6 wk, and polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) were elicited by peritoneal injection of casein. The overall phospholipid content and composition as well as the subclass distribution of choline and ethanolamine glycerophospholipids in PMN were not altered by these diets. However, with the perilla oil diet their content of a putative precursor of PAF, 1-alkyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine was approximately 50% of that with safflower oil diet. On exposure to various concentrations of FMLP, PAF formation by PMN in the perilla oil group was less than 50% of that by PMN in the safflower oil group. A larger difference in PAF productions by PMN in the two dietary groups was observed on their stimulation with calcium ionophore A23187. These results demonstrate that PAF production is modulated in some as yet unknown way by changing the alpha-linolenate/linoleate balance of the diet. 
"Near miss" death in obstructive sleep apnea: a critical care syndrome. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to alert critical care physicians to the syndrome of obstructive sleep apnea with respiratory failure ("near miss" death) and to elucidate characteristics that might allow earlier recognition and treatment of such patients. DESIGN: We examined clinical and laboratory characteristics of eight patients with obstructive sleep apnea presenting to the ICU with respiratory failure. These characteristics were compared with those of eight stable apnea patients of similar severity but without a history of presentation with respiratory failure. SETTING: Medical ICU and pulmonary outpatient clinic at the Houston Veterans Administration Medical Center, a teaching hospital affiliated with Baylor College of Medicine. PATIENTS: Eight patients with obstructive sleep apnea who presented in, or developed, acute respiratory failure requiring tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation were matched to eight stable obstructive sleep apnea outpatients from the chest clinic. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The records of these 16 patients were reviewed and multiple characteristics that might predict these obstructive sleep apnea patients prone to respiratory failure and death (called the "near miss" death group; n = 8) were examined. The mean age of the near miss group was 57 yrs. All eight patients presented with respiratory acidosis (mean pH 7.22), hypercarbia (mean PaCO2 82 torr [10.9 kPa]), and hypoxemia (mean PaO2 45 torr [6.0 kPa]). Six of the eight patients had concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as determined by clinical characteristics and spirometry. Predisposing factors included facial trauma, lower respiratory tract infections or bronchospasm, and use of pain medication. All but one of the near miss subjects had awake hypercarbia (mean PaCO2 49 torr [6.5 kPa]) and hypoxemia (mean PaO2 58 torr [7.7 kPa]) during periods of clinical stability while only two controls had concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and none had hypercarbia. The prevalence of a history of wheezing and prior hospitalization for "respiratory problems" were greater in the near miss group. Once cured of apnea, no patient presented with recurrence of respiratory failure in follow-up ranging from 6 to 80 months, and cor pulmonale recurred in only one patient during subsequent onset of central apneas. CONCLUSION: Patients with obstructive sleep apnea who have concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or hypercarbia and hypoxemia are more prone to develop severe respiratory failure and probable death than those patients with apnea alone. The current study shows that recurrent respiratory failure and presumably mortality from this acute complication can be reversed with effective treatment of the obstructive apnea. 
Community control of scabies: a model based on use of permethrin cream For 18 years treatment with lindane or crotamiton products has failed to stem the epidemic of scabies among the Kuna Indians in the San Blas islands of the Republic of Panama. Permethrin 5% cream was introduced as the only treatment in a programme to control scabies on an island of 756 inhabitants and involving workers recruited locally. Prevalence fell from 33% to less than 1% after every person was treated. As long as continued surveillance and treatment of newly introduced cases was maintained, prevalence of scabies remained below 1.5% for over 3 years. When supply of medication was interrupted for 3 weeks, prevalence rose to 3.6%. When control was lost after the US invasion of Panama, prevalence rose to 12% within 3 months. Bacterial skin infections decreased dramatically when scabies was controlled. Permethrin is safe and effective even in areas where this disease has become resistant to lindane. 
Localization of breakthrough site of canine monomorphic ventricular tachycardia by pacemapping. A vectorial approach. BACKGROUND. The precision and limitations of ventricular pacemapping as a method to localize the site of earliest breakthrough of ventricular tachycardia (VT) were investigated in a canine model of experimental myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. Forty-one episodes of VT induced in 10 animals were mapped using a standard grid of 64 endocardial and epicardial bipolar electrodes to determine the site of earliest endocardial or epicardial breakthrough of activation during VT. Each of these 64 recording sites was also used for ventricular pacing during sinus rhythm at cycle lengths comparable to those of the VTs. Orthogonal X, Y, and Z Frank electrocardiographic (ECG) leads were recorded during all episodes of VT and ventricular pacing from all sites after the chest was closed in all animals. Surface ECG waveforms corresponding to each VT and each ventricular pacing were compared pairwise by measuring the Euclidean metric difference between the VT and ventricular pacing vectors with the orthogonal ECG leads as their X, Y, and Z components. The pacing site that generated the vector most similar to VT vector (smallest vectorial difference) was defined as the predicted breakthrough site. This predicted site of breakthrough was identical to the actual site of breakthrough determined by activation sequence mapping during VT for only nine VTs (22%). However, for an additional 27 VTs (66%), the observed and predicted breakthrough locations were at adjacent (1 cm or less apart) recording sites. For five VTs (12%), the two sites were remote, the distance between them exceeding 1 cm. CONCLUSIONS. In this model, locating the breakthrough site by pacemapping is exact in only a small minority of VTs. However, when orthogonal surface ECG leads are used for comparison, pacemapping can predict the site of earliest breakthrough during VT with a 1-cm resolution in the majority of VTs. 
Prevalence and clinical spectrum of skin diseases in kidney transplant recipients. Cutaneous lesions can be a significant problem in kidney transplant recipients. Factors such as climate and skin types have been implicated as modifiers of these clinical manifestations. With the purpose of determining the prevalence and clinical spectrum of skin diseases in a group of Hispanic kidney transplant recipients in a tropical climate, 82 serial unselected patients were examined. Seventy-eight were found to have some type of skin disease. Infections of the skin were the most common, followed by drug-induced changes and malignant or premalignant cutaneous tumors. Except for the preponderance of superficial mycotic infections, the overall results in our population are in agreement with other series. 
Elevated cortical venous pressure in hydrocephalus. To gain a better understanding of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) hydrodynamics and their relationship to the cerebrovascular system, normal and naturally hydrocephalic dogs were studied to determine transmantle [lateral ventricle (LV) to subarachnoid space] and transparenchymal [LV to cortical vein (CV)] pressures. Pressure was also measured in the sagittal sinus, cisterna magna, and femoral artery. CV pressure has not previously been measured in hydrocephalus. Ventricular volume was determined by computed tomography. Four groups of animals were studied. In Group 1 (n = 5) transmantle pressure was measured; in Group 2 (n = 5), transparenchymal pressure in normal animals was measured. In Group 3 (n = 5) was measured all the pressures in spontaneously normal animals, and in Group 4 (n = 6) was measured the pressures in hydrocephalic animals. The pressure-volume index and CSF outflow resistance were also measured. LV volume in the normal dogs was 1.3 +/- 0.7 ml and in the hydrocephalic dogs was 5.1 +/- 2.7 ml (P less than 0.005). Although LV, subarachnoid space, and sagittal sinus pressures were elevated in the hydrocephalic dogs (15.1 versus 10.2, 16.4 versus 10.5, and 8.4 versus 5.2 mm Hg, respectively), the transmantle pressure and subarachnoid space to sagittal sinus gradients were not significantly altered. CV pressure was markedly elevated in the hydrocephalic animals (21.5 versus 11.7 mm Hg, P less than 0.005). The pressure-volume index and outflow resistance were not significantly different. These results suggest that an elevated CV pressure plays a role in the development and/or maintenance of hydrocephalus, and that the pathway for CSF absorption includes transcapillary or transvenular absorption of CSF from the interstitial space. 
Repeated intestinal ulcerations in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and high serum antiphospholipid antibody levels. We report the case of a patient with SLE who had repeated ulceration of the small intestine requiring emergency surgery. Pathologic examination revealed microthrombosis and vasculitis at the site of the intestinal ulcers. High levels of antiphospholipid antibodies, thrombocytopenia, and prolonged prothrombin time coincided with the episodes of intestinal ulceration. Antiphospholipid antibodies may be involved in the development of thrombosis resulting in the repeated episodes of intestinal ulceration in this patient. This possibility should be considered in patients with SLE who have intestinal ulceration and appropriate antithrombotic medication should be administered. 
Chronic and recurrent ankle sprains. Persistent symptoms such as pain, swelling, or giving way after lateral ligament injuries of the ankle are not uncommon. The treating orthopedist must first decide whether the symptoms are related to the ankle instability. Intra-articular or extra-articular injury may occur concomitantly with either a stable or unstable ankle, and careful diagnostic evaluation must be undertaken. Arthroscopy of the unstable ankle in which there is significant pain without demonstrable intra-articular injury by bone scans, CT scans, and MRI studies is indicated, as intra-articular lesions do occur that may result in chronic pain after the ankle has been rendered stable. An arthroscopic lateral ankle capsulodesis procedure has been described with promising early results. Arthroscopic management of an intra-articular pathologic condition in the stable ankle involves removal or excision of offending bone and/or soft tissue. Patients' symptoms can be improved significantly by these approaches, after which there can be a return to a more normal level of function. 
The influence of preoperative shock on outcome in sequential endocardial resection for ventricular tachycardia. Sequential endocardial resection was used in 92 consecutive patients to treat ventricular tachycardia. All patients had coronary artery disease with previous myocardial infarction. All patients had repeated cycles of mapping and resection of arrhythmogenic foci in the normothermic beating heart until ventricular tachycardia was no longer inducible. Eighty-six patients (93%) survived to hospital discharge. The survival rate in patients normotensive at the time of operation was 98% and in patients in shock at the time of operation, 43%. By Cox regression analysis, preoperative shock was the significant predictor (p less than 0.001) of operative mortality. Seventy-four of the 86 operative survivors (86%) had no sustained ventricular tachycardia at initial postoperative electrophysiologic study when receiving no antiarrhythmic drugs. Eighty-three of the 86 operative survivors (97%) had no sustained ventricular tachycardia at final postoperative electrophysiologic study when using antiarrhythmic drugs as needed. After a median follow-up of 21 months (range 1 to 79 months) there were 4 sudden cardiac deaths, 12 other cardiac deaths, and 3 noncardiac deaths. There were no documented nonfatal episodes of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia after hospital discharge. Use of the sequential endocardial resection technique is effective in curing ventricular tachycardia with low operative morbidity and mortality. 
Serum concentrations of tumour necrosis factor alpha in childhood chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Serum tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) concentrations were measured by enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assay in 31 normal children and during 65 episodes of clinical remission and 54 episodes of relapse in 92 children with chronic inflammatory bowel disease. An appreciable rise in TNF alpha was found only in children in relapse of ulcerative colitis and colonic Crohn's disease. The group of children with small bowel Crohn's disease in relapse did not show increases of TNF alpha above control concentrations, despite an equivalent rise in disease indices. Height velocity was depressed in children with relapse of large bowel Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis compared with the equivalent condition in remission. The impairment of growth velocity was significantly greater in relapse of large bowel Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis than in small bowel Crohn's disease alone, although for the subgroups in stage 1 puberty (prepubertal) the differences were not significant. Inadequate growth in chronic inflammatory bowel disease is currently ascribed to inadequate nutrition and TNF alpha may contribute to this through its cachexia inducing effects. It may, in addition, diminish pituitary growth hormone release. These results suggest that production of TNF alpha may be associated with growth failure in relapse of colonic inflammatory bowel disease. 
Naltrexone in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea and in the normal luteal phase. Fifteen young women with a diagnosis of secondary hypothalamic amenorrhea of at least 2 years' duration were given either 50 mg naltrexone daily or placebo, following a randomized double-blind crossover scheme. Seven patients did not menstruate with either therapy. In the other eight, the following results were recorded (mean +/- SD and range): a cycle length of 28.7 +/- 7.6 (12-45) days for naltrexone compared with 30.8 +/- 5.9 (16-43) days for placebo, a follicular phase length of 20.8 +/- 5.4 (14-34) days for naltrexone and 23.2 +/- 4.3 (19-32) days for naltrexone and 8.3 +/- 1.6 (5-10) days for placebo. The number of ovulatory cycles was 18 of 24 (75%) with naltrexone and eight of 24 (33%) with placebo (P less than .05). Most luteal phases were short. In five normally menstruating women, we gave either naltrexone or placebo in the luteal phase using a crossover blinded scheme. Steroidogenesis in the normal luteal phase was not impaired by naltrexone therapy. In functional hypothalamic amenorrheic patients with normal weight, menstruation might be restored by either placebo or naltrexone, but naltrexone provides a clinical and therapeutic advantage by increasing the ovulation rate. 
Air travel in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Air travel exposes patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease to the risk of severe hypoxemia. We sought to determine the frequency and outcome of airline travel in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A cohort of 100 patients (76 men and 24 women; age 67 +/- 7 years [mean +/- SD]) with severe chronic pulmonary obstructive disease examined by means of spirometry (forced expiratory volume in the first second, 0.04 +/- 0.35 L), all military retirees, or their dependents, comprised the study population. Forty-four patients traveled by commercial air carrier over a 28-month interval, giving an annual frequency of 18.9% of these patients per year. The group that did not travel by air (n = 56) had a lower mean value for forced expiratory volume in the first second and greater prevalence of home oxygen use than did the group that did travel by air. Twelve of the travelers (27.3%) consulted a physician beforehand. Flights reached foreign destinations for 22.7% of patients. The median duration of the longest flight segment was 3 hours. A minority of patients (34.3%) occupied seats in the smoking sections of aircraft. A majority (56.8%) ambulated aboard the aircraft during flights. Eight patients (18.2%) reported transient symptoms during air travel. We conclude that patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease travel with appreciable frequency, often without medical consultation, and develop symptoms in some cases. 
An approach to pediatric trauma. Unique anatomic and pathophysiologic aspects of the pediatric patient. Effective evaluation and management of the pediatric trauma patient is based on knowledge of the unique anatomic and pathophysiologic differences in children. An understanding of these differences along with the trauma resuscitation guidelines established by the American College of Surgeons will allow the trauma team to provide systematic and comprehensive resuscitation of the child with multiple injuries. Continued research in the field of pediatric trauma resuscitation and the ongoing efforts of the National Pediatric Trauma Registry will continue to advance our understanding and management of injured children. 
Chronic mitoinhibition during promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis. We have reported previously that orotic acid (OA), a precursor for pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis, is able to promote carcinogenic process in both liver and duodenum of rats. The present study investigates the possible role of mitoinhibitory effects of OA as being responsible for its promotional effects. Male Fischer 344 rats were given a semisynthetic basal diet (BD) or a diet containing 1% OA for four weeks coupled with 2/3 partial hepatectomy (PH), and all animals were then continued on BD for an additional four weeks. This protocol is known to exert a promoting effect on the initiated rat liver. Livers were perfused, and the labeling index (LI) of isolated cultured hepatocytes was monitored. Hepatocytes isolated from livers of rats fed a BD or 1% OA exhibited in vitro an LI of 39 +/- 2 and 24 +/- 1%, respectively. The lowered in vitro LI was seen even upon exposure to epidermal growth factor (EGF) (67 +/- 2% in OA-treated livers compared to 91 +/- 2% in hepatocytes from control rat liver). A similar four-week exposure to OA coupled with PH decreased hepatic DNA synthesis induced by a choline-deficient diet in vivo by about 50%. These results indicate that OA is able to decrease the response of normal hepatocytes to growth factors and suggest a possible mechanism of chronic differential mitoinhibition as a basis for promotion induced by OA. 
The decline of mortality due to stroke: a competitive and deterministic perspective. Although stroke mortality has been declining since the first part of this century, the rate of decline increased sharply during the early 1970s. The basis for the fall in stroke mortality is often attributed to effective management of risk factors, particularly hypertension. However, some investigators have questioned whether risk factor reduction alone can adequately account for the magnitude of the recent decline in stroke mortality. When viewed from the perspective of competitive and deterministic mortality dynamics, the major force decreasing stroke mortality is the decreasing deterministic competitiveness of stroke and the increasing deterministic competitiveness of various malignant neoplasms and degenerative diseases as causes of mortality. These reciprocal trends are a natural consequence of the competitive deterministic mortality dynamics which describe these diseases in an environment that is becoming more conducive to human survival. The competitive nature of human mortality makes drawing etiopathogenic conclusions based upon single disease mortality data hazardous. 
Hemoglobin-acetaldehyde adducts in human volunteers following acute ethanol ingestion. Rabbit antibodies against albumin-acetaldehyde adduct were used in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect acetaldehyde-hemoglobin condensates from the blood of 12 volunteers following ingestion of 1.3 to 2.9 g of ethanol per kg body weight during 8 hr. Blood samples were drawn before drinking and between 2 to 46 hr after starting the drinking session. While there were no significant increases in blood acetaldehyde levels in these samples, acetaldehyde-hemoglobin adducts were significantly increased in the samples drawn after ethanol had been eliminated from the body. Administration of ethanol (0.1 g/kg) to an Oriental flusher resulted in an increase both in blood acetaldehyde and the hemoglobin-acetaldehyde adduct levels. These results suggest that acetaldehyde-hemoglobin condensates are formed in vivo following acute ethanol ingestion. Such condensates may be of value to mark alcohol consumption. 
Relationship of stress, distress, and the immunologic response to a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine. BACKGROUND. Many studies have investigated the relationship between psychosocial factors and the susceptibility to infectious diseases. Fewer studies have investigated the relationship between stress and the immunologic response to vaccines. A follow-up study was designed to investigate the relationships between stress, distress, and the antibody response to a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine. METHODS. Eighty-one seronegative medical students received a standard immunization protocol of a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine. Six months after the first dose, corresponding to the induction phase of immunization, each subject completed both the Survey of Life Experiences and the Symptom Distress Check List to assess levels of stress and distress during that period. Three months after the third dose, corresponding to the booster phase of immunization, each subject completed the same questionnaires and was also tested for a quantitative hepatitis B surface antibody titer. Correlations were statistically analyzed using Pearson's correlation coefficient and stepwise multifactorial regression analysis. RESULTS. Higher levels of negatively perceived stress, irascibility, depression, and anxiety during the induction phase of immunization were significantly associated with higher peak antibody titers. Together these psychosocial factors accounted for 5.8% of the variance, and were as strong a determinant of peak antibody titer as was age. CONCLUSIONS. In addition to the known vaccine-related and biological factors, psychosocial factors appear to affect the immune response to a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine. The positive direction of the correlation raises the question of whether the effect of psychosocial factors on antibody formation is different from their effect on antibody function. 
Endothelium-dependent contraction and relaxation of the human and canine internal mammary artery: studies on bypass graft vasospasm. The internal mammary artery (IMA) is the preferred conduit for coronary artery bypass graft because of superior late patency. However, IMA vasospasm may contribute to myocardial ischemia and early postoperative morbidity. To investigate mechanisms of vasospasm, we compared the reactivity of human and canine IMA segments in vitro to agonists known to release endothelium-derived contracting factor and endothelium-derived relaxing factor. Rings (4 mm in length) of human and canine IMA were studied in organ chambers. Human and canine vascular smooth muscle exhibited comparable contraction to norepinephrine (maximum = 7.55 +/- 0.63 gm and 6.4 +/- 0.90 gm, respectively) and relaxation to sodium nitroprusside. Human and canine IMAs exhibited comparable endothelium-derived relaxing factor-mediated relaxations to acetylcholine (human) and methacholine (canine). Human and canine IMA also exhibited comparable endothelium-dependent contraction to hypoxia (to 173.3% +/- 8.1% and 178.9% +/- 16.0% of initial prehypoxic tension; means +/- SEM; n = 12). Endothelium-dependent contraction to hypoxia in human and canine IMA could be attenuated by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (10(-6) mol/L), a competitive inhibitor of L-arginine metabolism (n = 9 and n = 10 for human and canine; p less than 0.05). These studies establish that the canine is an appropriate model for study of human IMA vascular reactivity and that hypoxia can induce the release of an L-arginine-dependent, endothelium-derived contracting factor in the human and canine IMA. In vivo, the release of endothelium-derived contracting factor in response to hypoxemia may be cause of IMA vasospasm. 
Effect of intrathecal fibrinolysis on cerebrospinal fluid absorption after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. The effect of intrathecal fibrinolysis on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption was investigated after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In 11 cats, SAH was induced by intracisternal application of 1 to 4 ml of fresh autologous blood. Thirty minutes after the experimental SAH, the CSF outflow resistance was found to be elevated from a median of 77 mm Hg/ml/min (range 41.3 to 109 mm Hg/ml/min) to a median of 580 mm Hg/ml/min (range 104 to 7000 mm Hg/ml/min). A logarithmic relationship could be demonstrated between the volume of subarachnoid blood and the elevation of the CSF outflow resistance. The intrathecal application of 2 mg of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA), which is a fibrinolytic substance suitable for lysis of subarachnoid blood clots in man, resulted in an almost total restoration of CSF absorption after experimental SAH. The CSF outflow resistance after SAH was lowered by application of rt-PA from a median of 1028.05 mm Hg/ml/min (range 394 to 7000 mm Hg/ml/min) to 79 mm Hg/ml/min (range 56.7 to 223 mm Hg/ml/min). It is concluded that the impairment of CSF absorption after SAH may play an important role in the pathogenesis of post-hemorrhagic vasospasm. 
Erythroleukemia in a child associated with monosomy 7. A case of erythroleukemia (EL) associated with monosomy 7 is reported. The EL was diagnosed 20 months after the initial diagnosis of monosomy 7 was made. An immunologic study of the blast cells using a monoclonal antibody was positive for glycophorin A, which suggested that they were of erythroid origin; this was confirmed by electron microscopy. Chemotherapy was started with low dose cytarabine. However, the patient had severe bone marrow suppression and died of pneumonia. Our case shows that monosomy 7 is an abnormality of the pluripotential stem cells, including erythroid cells, that resulted in a true erythroid neoplasm. 
Delayed presentation of a carotid-cavernous sinus fistula in a patient with traumatic brain injury. Carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas are rare complications of traumatic brain injury, facial trauma and postorthognathic surgery. A high level of clinical suspicion is necessary, particularly for patients who are unable to communicate, to establish the diagnosis. A case of delayed presentation of a carotid-cavernous sinus fistula after traumatic brain injury is presented. This case illustrates that early recognition of this disorder is crucial to prevent significant morbidity. 
Chronic reversal of hemifield loss after intraocular pressure lowering in advanced glaucoma. Lowering intraocular pressure in two cases of severe glaucoma was associated with a chronic reversal of hemifield loss, as documented by automated threshold perimetry. In the first case, a small central 10 degrees island of vision expanded to 40 degrees in both hemifields eight months after intraocular pressure lowering by filtration surgery. The mean deviation of the central 30 degrees field improved by more than 14dB or 1.4 log units. To our knowledge, this case represents the greatest degree of reversal of chronic visual field loss reported in the literature. In the second case, a small central 10 degrees island of vision slowly expanded to 40 degrees in the inferior hemifield over a three-year period. 
Spinal cord protection during aortic occlusion: efficacy of intrathecal tetracaine. Spinal cord ischemia and resultant paraplegia are devastating sequelae in up to 40% of patients undergoing repair of thoracoabdominal aneurysms. We investigated the effect of intrathecal tetracaine on the neurological sequelae of spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion with aortic occlusion. Cocaine-derived anesthetics (lidocaine and its analogues) have been shown to decrease neuronal cell metabolism and also have specific neuronal membrane stabilizing effects. New Zealand white rabbits were anesthetized and spinal cord ischemia was then induced by infrarenal aortic occlusion. Animals were divided into six treatment groups. Tetracaine (groups 2 and 4) or normal saline solution (group 5) was administered intrathecally before aortic cross-clamping. Groups 1 and 3 functioned as controls. Group 6 animals received intravenous thiopental. Rabbits were classified as either neurologically normal or injured (paralyzed or paretic). Among controls, 25 minutes of aortic occlusion produced varied neurological sequelae (group 1, 3/6 injured, 50%) whereas 30 minutes resulted in more consistent injury (group 3, 5/6 injured, 83%). All rabbits that received intrathecal saline solution were paralyzed (group 5, 4/4 injured, 100%). Animals treated with intrathecal tetracaine and aortic occlusion of 30 minutes (group 4) showed significantly better preservation of neurological function (6/7 normal, 86%) than controls and saline-treated animals (groups 3 and 5). All animals treated with intrathecal tetracaine and aortic occlusion for 25 minutes (group 2) showed no signs of injury (5/5 normal, 100%), but this was not significant versus controls (group 1). Intravenous thiopental (group 6, 5/5 injured, 100%) had no beneficial effect. Intrathecal tetracaine significantly and dramatically abrogated the neurological injury secondary to spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion after aortic occlusion at 30 minutes in the rabbit model. 
IIB osteosarcoma. Current management, local control, and survival statistics--Sao Paulo, Brazil. Ninety-two patients with IIB osteosarcoma of the extremities were treated with intraarterial (IA) cisplatinum (CDDP) followed by surgery [amputation (61.6%) or resection with endoprosthesis (38.4%)]. Postoperative chemotherapy alternating adriamycin and CDDP was used. The total three-year survival was 62.1%, and the disease-free survival was 41.1%. The pathologic evaluation of the degree of tumor necrosis in response to the IA CDDP showed that in 53.2%, the necrosis was over 90%. The multivariate analysis of prognostic factors has shown that the highest survival was among females with tumors smaller than 15 cm. Patients with lesions equal to or larger than 15 cm were three times as likely to die of the disease. A second, more aggressive study is now underway, in which high dose methotrexate (HDMTX) is preoperatively combined with adriamycin and CDDP. Following operation, ifosfamide is added to the cases with a smaller degree of tumor necrosis, while the other group of patients will continue with HDMTX, in addition to CDDP and adriamycin (these last two drugs are used in both arms). Until now, complete remission has been achieved in 82% and 86%, respectively, with a follow-up examination varying from four to 26 months (average, 14 months). This is of extreme importance, because the majority of the authors' patients have tumors at initial evaluation larger than 10 cm in diameter. 
Expression of the c-myc proto-oncogene in multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia: an in situ analysis. The c-myc gene plays a pivotal role in mediating the competence state for cell cycle transversion. This biologic role is in contradiction to reports of elevated expression of the gene in multiple myeloma, a tumor with restricted self-renewal capacity. To more clearly define the role of this gene in plasma cells of myeloma patients, c-myc messenger RNA (mRNA) and/or oncoprotein expression were semiquantitatively analyzed on the single cell level in 19 cases of multiple myeloma, among them 1 biclonal case and 1 case with coexistent chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Performing anti-sense/mRNA in situ hybridization, mature c-myc gene transcripts were detected in 92% (12 of 13) of cases and could definitely be attributed to the plasma cells by our study. The number of Ki 67-positive plasma cells actively passing the cell cycle was less than 1% and independent of c-myc gene expression. However, because the presence of the 152-c-MYC epitope was correlated to extent of marrow plasmacytosis (r = .64; P = .043) and content of plasmablasts (P = .09), the c-myc gene might serve a function different from proliferative activity, but also associated with tumor cell mass. In CLL cells (21 of 22 cases) and their benign counterparts, ie, bone marrow and peripheral blood lymphocytes, the anti-sense/c-myc mRNA hybridization signals remained below the threshold considered as cutpoint between negative and positive. The low amounts of c-myc transcripts were correlated to neither stage of disease (P = .52) nor lymphocyte counts (P = .24). Because the numbers of peripheral blood lymphoma cells were independent of tumor mass and of c-myc gene transcripts expressed, peripheral blood lymphocytosis might more likely reflect homing processes than proliferative activity in CLL. 
The diabetic foot: consequences of delayed treatment and referral. The pathophysiology of foot problems in diabetic patients is poorly understood by many physicians. Two major factors that frequently lead to a delay in appropriate treatment with subsequent limb loss are failure to appreciate the presence and severity of underlying infection and attribution of gangrene of the toe and forefoot to microvascular disease. To evaluate the consequences of delayed recognition and treatment, we reviewed the records of 55 diabetic patients with localized gangrene or infection of the forefoot in 62 limbs, treated consecutively on a single vascular surgical service over a 2-year period using a standard protocol. All appropriately treated neuropathic ulcers and forefoot infections healed in patients with palpable pedal pulses. If foot pulses were absent and arteriography confirmed large-vessel occlusive disease, foot lesions and infections likewise healed if concomitant revascularization was done. In our series, 33 bypasses were required because of severe atherosclerotic occlusive disease. Only one patient had "unreconstructable" arterial disease. Limb salvage was 86% at a mean follow-up of 12.4 months. In 16 of the patients (29%), there was a prolonged delay between initial treatment and referral for definitive care. The specific causes of delay were underestimation of the severity of foot infection in 10 patients, and lack of recognition of ischemia due to large-vessel occlusive disease in six. These delays led to more proximal levels of amputation in six patients, including three below-knee amputations in patients with limbs that were initially salvageable. 
Efficacy and toxicity of pentostam against Panamanian mucosal leishmaniasis. We tested the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis in 16 Panamanians with disease due to Leishmania braziliensis panamensis. Disease was mild in this population because it was limited to the nasal mucosa and only one patient had septal perforation. The patients were administered 20 mg antimony (in the form of Pentostam) per kg intravenously each day for 28 days. Ten patients completed therapy and were cured at 12 month follow-up. Three patients completed therapy, healed their lesions, but relapsed at the six or 12 month follow-up. Three patients terminated therapy prematurely because of liver enzyme elevations in conjunction with either EKG abnormalities or musculoskeletal complaints; none of these patients were healed. This study indicates that in patients with mild mucosal leishmaniasis, the WHO regimen is curative in 77% patients who complete treatment and in 63% of all patients. 
Intracoronary thrombus formation causes focal vasoconstriction of epicardial arteries in patients with coronary artery disease. BACKGROUND. Experimental studies have demonstrated that intracoronary platelet aggregation and thrombus formation may induce marked vasoconstriction of epicardial arteries with endothelial injury. METHODS AND RESULTS. To examine the effects of intracoronary thrombus formation on coronary vasomotor tone of human epicardial arteries in vivo, we studied 15 patients who developed intracoronary thrombi adherent to the guide wire during balloon dilatation. Epicardial artery luminal area was evaluated by quantitative coronary angiography proximal and distal to the site of intracoronary thrombus formation and in a reference vessel before and after thrombus formation as well as after intracoronary injection of 0.2-0.3 mg nitroglycerin. All artery segments distal to the site of thrombus formation showed vasoconstriction with a luminal area reduction of -27.4 +/- 17.1% (p less than 0.001), whereas proximal vessel segments and reference vessels not manipulated during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty did not demonstrate any significant luminal area changes during thrombus formation. Angiographic measurements after advancing the guide wire with the adherent thrombus (performed in six of the 15 patients) revealed in all patients that vasoconstriction did develop at a new site distal to the thrombus persistence of the initial vasoconstriction now residing proximal to the thrombus. Thus, there was a sequential association between thrombus formation and subsequent distal vasoconstriction. Intracoronary injection of nitroglycerin abolished the thrombus-induced vasoconstriction. No significant luminal area changes were observed in 20 patients without angiographic evidence of intracoronary thrombus formation. CONCLUSIONS. Intracoronary thrombus formation during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty causes focal vasoconstriction of epicardial arteries in patients with coronary artery disease. Although caution must be advised in the extrapolation of this phenomenon, which was observed in a manipulated artery during coronary angioplasty, the vasoconstrictor response to intracoronary thrombus formation in vivo may play an important role in the dynamic mechanisms of acute coronary heart disease syndromes. 
Mitochondrial encephalopathies: molecular genetic diagnosis from blood samples. Point mutations of mitochondrial DNA have been described in the muscle of patients with syndromes of myoclonic epilepsy and ragged red fibres (MERRF) and of mitochondrial encephalopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). We have found the MERRF mutation in members of 6 British kindreds; 2 of these had unusual phenotypes but all index patients had myoclonus. The MELAS mutation was detected in 17 patients from 16 families, who had a wide range of clinical features that particularly affected the central nervous system; stroke-like episodes were observed in 10.3 patients with mitochondrial DNA mutations did not have ragged red fibres on muscle biopsy, generally considered to be the morphological hallmark of mitochondrial diseases. In all 6 patients with the MERRF mutation, and 10 of 11 with the MELAS mutation, the genetic defect was easily detected in blood cells as well as muscle (blood samples were not available in 6 patients with MELAS mutations in muscle). Molecular genetic analysis of blood samples represents an inexpensive and reliable screening test for mitochondrial encephalopathies, and use of such techniques could influence diagnosis and genetic counselling in patients with seizure disorders and young-onset stroke. 
Overview: rationale of thrombolysis in treating acute myocardial infarction. Treatment of coronary thrombosis with thrombolytic agents was first introduced in the 1950s. Clinical trials, primarily with streptokinase during the 1960s and 1970s, addressed the effects of thrombolysis on mortality rates after acute myocardial infarction, but were inconclusive and largely ignored. In 1976, Chazov et al. from the Soviet Union demonstrated that intracoronary streptokinase could produce prompt recanalization of a totally occluded infarct-related artery. In 1980, DeWood et al. demonstrated that 87% of patients with classic Q-wave myocardial infarction had total occlusion from coronary thrombosis of the infarct-related artery when studied during the first 4 hours of their infarction and that 65% of these arteries were still occluded when patients were studied between 12 and 24 hours after infarction. These observations stimulated renewed interest in thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Mortality trials have subsequently demonstrated that agents such as recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, streptokinase, and anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex remarkably reduce early mortality rates among patients with acute myocardial infarction when treatment is instituted within the first 6 hours of infarction. Benefit has yet to be demonstrated, however, in patients with acute myocardial infarction characterized by ST-segment depression. This whole area is currently under study by the TIMI investigators. TIMI-3B is a mortality study in which patients with either non-Q-wave myocardial infarction or unstable angina with rest pain are randomly assigned to receive either tissue plasminogen activator or placebo. Results of this trial will help us in the future to determine the appropriate role of thrombolytic therapy in treating acute ischemic syndromes other than transmural myocardial infarction. 
Expression of HIV-1 in the cerebrospinal fluid detected by the polymerase chain reaction and its correlation with central nervous system disease. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect HIV-1 sequences (gag, pol, and env) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum samples from 53 HIV-1-positive patients and the results correlated with clinical evidence of neurological disease. Twenty-three out of 24 patients with neurological disease had HIV-1-specific sequences in CSF compared with four out of 20 asymptomatic patients who had no evidence of neurological involvement. The detection of HIV RNA sequences by PCR in the CSF of HIV-positive patients may provide early, rapid and direct evidence of neurological involvement in asymptomatic subjects. 
Autocrine stimulation by erythropoietin and autonomous growth of human erythroid leukemic cells in vitro. Autonomous colony formation is a frequent event in erythroleukemia. In 13 cases of early erythroid leukemias, we investigated whether erythropoietin (Epo) autocrine stimulation was responsible for the growth factor autonomy. Epo transcripts were detected by Northern blotting in cells from one patient. These cells also expressed an Epo receptor (1,000 receptors per cell) with a 420-pM affinity and Epo was detected in the supernatant of cultured cells. In 8 of the 13 cases, Epo transcripts were revealed by the polymerase chain reaction ranging from 0.5 to 500 copies per cell. In situ hybridization proved that these Epo transcripts were present in the blast cells. No Epo gene abnormalities were detected by Southern blotting. In two cases, leukemic cells were grown in the presence of Epo-neutralizing antibodies or Epo antisense oligomers. In one case, the antibody significantly reduced autonomous growth. In contrast, the antibody had no effect in the second case in which blast cells transcribed the Epo gene at a low level. However, Epo antisense oligomers partially inhibited autonomous growth. This inhibition was reversed by addition of exogenous Epo. Overall, these results suggest that an extracellular or intracellular autocrine Epo stimulation occurs in some cases of erythroid malignancies. 
Edematous pancreatitis associated with intravenous pentamidine. A 37-year-old black man with presumed Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who was treated with systemic IV pentamidine had fatal pancreatitis and massive hepatomegaly. Fatal pancreatitis can occur with no hemorrhagic changes seen at autopsy. Awareness of the relationship between pentamidine and pancreatitis should be emphasized. With current clinical trials testing other routes of administration, fatal complications associated with IV pentamidine therapy will be minimized. 
A component of calcium-activated potassium channels encoded by the Drosophila slo locus. Calcium-activated potassium channels mediate many biologically important functions in electrically excitable cells. Despite recent progress in the molecular analysis of voltage-activated K+ channels, Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels have not been similarly characterized. The Drosophila slowpoke (slo) locus, mutations of which specifically abolish a Ca(2+)-activated K+ current in muscles and neurons, provides an opportunity for molecular characterization of these channels. Genomic and complementary DNA clones from the slo locus were isolated and sequenced. The polypeptide predicted by slo is similar to voltage-activated K+ channel polypeptides in discrete domains known to be essential for function. Thus, these results indicate that slo encodes a structural component of Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels. 
The effects of benzodiazepine-receptor antagonists and partial inverse agonists on acute hepatic encephalopathy in the rat. Two benzodiazepine-receptor partial inverse agonists (Ro 15-4513, Ro 15-3505) and one benzodiazepine-receptor antagonist (flumazenil) were administered to rats with hepatic encephalopathy due to acute liver ischemia. Significant improvement (P less than 0.002) of both the clinical grade of hepatic encephalopathy and the electroencephalographic abnormalities was observed after administration of the benzodiazepine-receptor partial inverse agonists: comatose rats with no spontaneous righting reflex regained consciousness immediately after injection of the drug. Only slight improvement in clinical hepatic encephalopathy grade was seen after administration of 25 mg/kg of flumazenil. The present data strongly support a role of increased gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic tone in the pathogenesis of acute hepatic encephalopathy and provide a rationale for trials of benzodiazepine-receptor partial inverse agonists to restore consciousness in hepatic encephalopathy in humans in the near future. 
The effect of palliative radiation therapy on epidural compression due to metastatic malignant melanoma. The efficacy of palliative radiation therapy in the treatment of spinal cord and cauda equina compression due to metastatic malignant melanoma was evaluated in 38 sites in 35 patients treated between 1970 and 1990. All patients had radiographic documentation of epidural compression. The median dose of radiation therapy was 2850 cGy (range, 500 to 4000 cGy), with daily fractions ranging from 200 to 800 cGy. Twenty-eight sites in 26 patients were evaluable 1 month after completion of radiation therapy, and symptoms responded completely in 11 of 28 (39%) sites. Fourteen sites (46%) showed a partial response of symptoms. Response lasting until death was documented in 21 of 26 patients (81%). Patients receiving a total dose of 3000 cGy or greater were more likely to achieve a complete response than those receiving less than 3000 cGy (62% versus 20%) by univariate (P = 0.025) and multivariate (P = 0.048) analyses. A treatment program of radiation therapy and corticosteroids is effective in palliating the symptoms of epidural compression due to metastatic malignant melanoma. It is recommended to deliver an accelerated course of radiation therapy to a dose of 3000 cGy or greater without exceeding spinal cord tolerance (e.g., 3000 cGy in ten fractions at 300 cGy per fraction). 
Genes for epilepsy mapped in the mouse. The neurological mutant mouse strain E1 is a model for complex partial seizures in humans. The inheritance of epileptic seizures with seven conventional chromosomal markers and over 60 endogenous proviral markers was studied by means of back-crosses of E1 with two seizure-resistant strains, DBA/2J and ABP/LeJ. The major gene responsible for this epileptic phenotype (El-1) was localized to a region distal with respect to the centromere on chromosome 9. At least one other gene, El-2, linked to proviral markers on chromosome 2, also influences the seizure phenotype. In addition, a potential modifier of seizures was detected in the DBA/2J background. The location of El-1 on distal chromosome 9 may allow identification of an epilepsy candidate gene in humans on the basis of conserved synteny with human chromosome 3. 
Treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis with oral methotrexate. Ten patients with well-documented primary sclerosing cholangitis who had no signs of portal hypertension or liver failure were treated with oral pulse methotrexate for at least 1 yr. The methotrexate dose averaged 15 mg/wk (0.2 mg/kg/wk). All six patients who were symptomatic became asymptomatic within 1-5 months of starting methotrexate. Biochemical tests of liver function improved in all patients. The alkaline phosphatase value decreased from a mean (+/-SD) of 373 +/- 210 IU to 140 +/- 77 IU (p = 0.0008), the mean alanine aminotransferase (ALT) from 115 +/- 74 to 76 +/- 79 U/L (p = 0.005), and the mean aspartate aminotransferase (AST) value from 88 +/- 37 to 57 +/- 40 U/L (p = 0.007). The improvement in mean bilirubin (1.19 +/- 1.41 to 0.67 +/- 0.25 mg/dl) was not statistically significant. Serum albumin remained normal (3.97 +/- 0.46 to 4.22 +/- 0.36 g/dl). Nine patients had a repeat liver biopsy after 1 yr of methotrexate therapy. Six of the nine showed histologic improvement with a reduction in inflammation. The other three liver biopsies were unchanged. Repeat cholangiograms were done in six patients. Two showed improvement. In one of the two, who had early disease, the cholangiogram became normal, and the liver biopsy was markedly improved. The other four cholangiograms showed no progression of disease. No toxicity was detected in these 10 patients. These results suggest that low-dose oral methotrexate therapy is effective in primary sclerosing cholangitis if treatment is begun before signs of portal hypertension or liver failure occur. 
Molecular basis for elliptocytosis associated with glycophorin C and D deficiency in the Leach phenotype. Glycophorin C (GPC) and glycophorin D (GPD) are highly glycosylated integral membrane proteins of human erythrocytes encoded by the same gene and associated with expression of Gerbich blood group system antigens. GPC/D deficiency (the Leach phenotype) is a rare condition usually found after identification of Gerbich blood group system antibodies in persons undergoing prenatal or pretransfusion evaluation. In all cases, the Leach phenotype has been associated with elliptocytosis. Characterization of the molecular basis of this phenotype in three previously uninvestigated families has shown that the most common genetic basis of GPC/D deficiency is deletion of exons 3 and 4 of the GPC gene. However, in one family, the Leach phenotype appeared due to a deletion of one nucleotide in exon 3, causing a frameshift mutation in the messenger RNA and premature generation of a stop codon. The GPC and GPD protein sequences are therefore interrupted in the extracellular domain and probably intracellularly degraded. 
A prospective evaluation of elevated serum theophylline concentrations to determine if high concentrations are predictable. PURPOSE: To evaluate prospectively whether serum theophylline concentrations of 25 mg/L and greater were predictable (and presumably preventable) by use of basic pharmacokinetic calculations. DESIGN: Prospective study. PATIENTS: Fifty-five patients with a serum theophylline concentration of at least 25.0 mg/L were evaluated initially and if subsequent elevated theophylline concentrations occurred. INTERVENTIONS: The predicted steady-state serum theophylline concentration was calculated from the dosage rate divided by the predicted clearance to determine how many elevated concentrations (greater than 20 mg/L) were predictable. Predicted clearances were 0.04 L/kg/hour for normal subjects less than 70 years of age and 0.02 L/kg/hour for patients with congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or liver disease. Estimated clearances were determined and compared with predicted clearances. If patients did not have steady-state concentrations, additional calculations were made. MAIN RESULTS: From 6,368 consecutive theophylline determinations, 69 (1.08%) samples from 55 patients were 25 mg/L or higher. Predictably high concentrations occurred in 23 of 33 (69.7%) fully evaluable cases. These concentrations occurred because of a failure to consider decreased elimination clearance from congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or hepatic disease. Five fatalities occurred, and in two cases, theophylline appeared to contribute to the patient's death. Three other patients experienced syncope. The predicted elimination clearance of theophylline of 0.02 L/kg/hour was too high in eight patients over 70 years old with cardiac or pulmonary disease. Nursing and pharmacy oversights were identified as three patients were given two theophylline products simultaneously. CONCLUSIONS: Most elevated theophylline concentrations are predictable (and preventable) by basic pharmacokinetic calculations. Patients experiencing elevated theophylline concentrations often had comorbid conditions and were greater than 60 years of age. The dosage rate of theophylline (mg/hour) can be estimated from predicted clearance (L/kg/hour) times desired steady-state serum concentration (mg/L). 
Perineal excision of the rectum for prolapse in the elderly. A perineal operation is described for the treatment of rectal prolapse. The surgery improves functional outcome by correcting the anatomical anomalies associated with the condition. In 17 elderly women, there was one perioperative death and one recurrence. At a median follow-up of 24 months, 13 patients were able to control solid stool and three were profoundly incontinent. The operation may be an alternative to the more invasive abdominal procedures for the treatment of the majority of patients with prolapse. 
Primary pulmonary hypertension. Its association with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia. Four patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, microangiopathic hemolysis, and thrombocytopenia were seen at the Charleston (WVa) Area Medical Center between 1983 and 1988. Characteristic laboratory and clinical features of these patients were the following: mild anemia, reticulocytosis, low serum haptoglobin value, microangiopathic red blood cell changes on peripheral blood smear, mild to moderate thrombocytopenia, normal clotting studies (ie, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen), negative direct Coombs' test, negative glucose water test, normal serum urea nitrogen and creatinine levels, lack of improvement of hemolysis and thrombocytopenia in response to vasodilators or calcium channel blockers, and severe plexiform lesions in the pulmonary vasculature with fibrin deposition at autopsy. The hemolysis and thrombocytopenia probably developed as a result of flow through the fibrin deposition in the plexiform lesions in the pulmonary circulation and subsequent shearing of red blood cells and platelets. 
Pharmacokinetics of esmolol in children. The pharmacokinetics and concentration-response relationships of intravenous esmolol were investigated in 20 children undergoing indicated cardiac electrophysiologic testing. A loading dose of 600 micrograms/kg was infused for 2 minutes. An infusion of esmolol was initiated and dosage was titrated until beta-blockade occurred. Serial esmolol blood samples were obtained for pharmacokinetic analysis. Non-compartmental pharmacokinetic analysis of the data revealed the following parameter estimates (mean +/- SD): volume of distribution at steady state, 2.0 +/- 1.4 L/kg; total body clearance, 321.2 +/- 238.8 ml/kg/min; and terminal elimination half-life, 4.5 +/- 2.1 minutes. There was a significant correlation between mean esmolol concentrations and mean percentage of reductions of mean arterial pressures and heart rates at each sample time (p less than 0.001). The doses of esmolol required for beta-blockade (mean +/- SD, 535 +/- 180 micrograms/kg/min) in children were considerably higher than those typically used in adults. Esmolol should prove useful in children in the acute management of cardiac arrhythmias and hypertension. 
Activity of esorubicin in recurrent malignant lymphoma: a Southwest Oncology Group study. A phase II trial of esorubicin (4' deoxydoxorubicin) was conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group in 88 assessable patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and Hodgkin's disease (HD) at the time of first relapse. Esorubicin was administered at two dose levels: 25 mg/m2 for patients at risk for excessive myelosuppression, and at 30 mg/m2 for all others at 21-day intervals. Overall, 33 of 88 patients (38%) responded to treatment including three complete remissions (CRs; 3%) and 30 partial remissions (PRs; 34%), with the median duration of response lasting 6.2 months. Response rates did not differ significantly by histologic subtype: 31% of 26 patients with favorable NHL, 33% of 43 patients with unfavorable NHL, and 58% of 19 patients with HD. Twelve of 33 responding patients (36%) had relatively durable remissions lasting from 1 to more than 4 years. Leukopenia (less than 3,000 cells per microliter) was seen in 65 of 88 patients (74%) and was severe (less than 1,000 cells per microliter) in 20 of 88 patients (23%). Clinical signs or symptoms of congestive heart failure were not seen and the ejection fraction (EF) fell 10% to 20% in three patients. Esorubicin is an active agent in patients with NHL or HD at the time of first relapse. 
Underdiagnosis and poor documentation of acute confusional states in elderly hip fracture patients. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the accuracy of diagnosis and documentation of acute confusional states (ACS) in the medical records of patients with hip fracture. DESIGN: The diagnosis of ACS in two prospective clinical studies was compared to its diagnosis in the medical records of the same patients on the same hospitalization. In order to determine if the simultaneous prospective study influences the diagnostic and documentary practices evidenced in the medical records, a further comparison was done by reviewing medical records of two series of patients seen some years prior to the prospective studies. SETTING: Patients with femoral neck fractures treated at a department of orthopedic surgery in a university hospital and one retrospective control sample from a department of general surgery in a county hospital. SUBJECTS: Two prospective samples of patients 65 years and older treated for femoral neck fractures (n = 111 and n = 57, respectively) and two earlier retrospective samples (n = 66 and n = 68, respectively). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All comparisons showed that both physicians and nurses diagnosed ACS unsatisfactorily and documented the patients' mental status poorly. The analysis of the two retrospective medical record control samples gave the same results. Neither the physicians nor the nurses used any kind of diagnostic instrument to detect cognitive disorders in the patients. CONCLUSIONS: ACS is a common and severe complication in elderly people treated for femoral neck fractures. Acute confusional states have, by definition, one or more causes that can often be identified and treated. Poor assessment and documentation is a threat to the patients as a correct diagnosis of ACS is a prerequisite for further assessment of its underlying causes and the consequent necessary medical and nursing care. 
Preventability of emergent hospital readmission To determine whether emergent readmissions within 30 days of discharge are potentially preventable, we prospectively studied all readmissions to the medical service of a university teaching hospital during a 4-month period. The 327 readmissions, including 42 patients who were readmitted more than once during the study period, accounted for 12% of medical admissions. Nearly 75% of readmissions were due to previously diagnosed medical conditions; complications of drugs or therapeutic procedures caused 29%, and patient compliance contributed to 11%. Three reviewers judged 28 (9%) readmissions to be potentially preventable. These 28 readmissions constituted 1% of all admissions to the medical service and did not result in any fatalities, indicating that the quality of care was generally very good. One third of the potentially preventable readmissions were thought to be related to medical system failures, one third to an unfulfilled hope that the patient would improve after discharge, and one third to other suboptimal judgements in evaluation or treatment. Of the 28 potentially preventable readmissions, 89% occurred within 10 days of discharge. We conclude that potentially preventable readmissions would nearly always be detected by review of readmissions within 10 days of discharge and that many may be amenable to systematic interventions such as standardized predischarge assessment and better coordination of post-discharge follow-up. 
Role of lymphadenectomy in renal cell carcinoma. A hilar or limited lymph node dissection will not remove the primary lymphatic drainage area of either kidney. For a lymphadenectomy to have a therapeutic benefit, an extended dissection is required, particularly for right-sided tumors. An extended lymphadenectomy may not be justified in all patients with renal cell carcinoma, particularly those with small tumors (who rarely have lymphatic disease) or grossly positive nodes (who have a high risk of existing distant metastases). For some patients with T3 or V+ tumors and palpably normal retroperitoneal nodes, an extended nodal dissection may resect microscopically involved nodes and result in an improved survival rate. This hypothesis will not be tested appropriately until a randomized controlled study is performed. 
Torsion dystonia genes in two populations confined to a small region on chromosome 9q32-34. Idiopathic torsion dystonia (ITD) is characterized by sustained, involuntary muscle contractions, frequently causing twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures. Most familial forms of ITD display autosomal dominant inheritance with reduced penetrance. Linkage analysis has been previously used to localize a dystonia gene to the 9q32-34 region in a large non-Jewish family and in a group of Ashkenazi Jewish families. Utilizing GT repeat polymorphisms from this region, here we demonstrate that the gene causing dystonia in Ashkenazi Jews can be localized to the 11-cM interval between AK1 and D9S10. Linkage analysis in the non-Jewish family is also consistent with occurrence of the gene in this region, although positive lod scores extend over a greater than 20-cM interval in that family. These results set the stage for positional cloning of the dystonia gene. Currently there are no known candidate genes in this region. 
Prophylaxis of atrial fibrillation with magnesium sulfate after coronary artery bypass grafting. Ninety-nine consecutive consenting patients were prospectively entered into a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine the efficacy of postoperative magnesium therapy on the incidence of cardiac arrhythmias after elective coronary artery bypass grafting. No patient had documented or suspected arrhythmias preoperatively. Forty-nine patients received 178 mEq of magnesium given over the first 4 postoperative days, and 50 patients received only placebo. The clinical characteristics of both groups were similar. The preoperative mean serum magnesium concentration was similar in both study (1.90 mEq/L) and placebo (1.90 mEq/L) groups. The mean postoperative serum magnesium concentration in study patients was significantly elevated over postoperative days 1 through 4 when compared with preoperative levels (p less than 0.001). The postoperative mean serum magnesium concentration in control patients declined and remained significantly depressed through postoperative day 3 (p less than 0.001), but increased to preoperative levels by postoperative day 4. The mean serum magnesium concentration was significantly greater in the study patients as compared with the control patients over postoperative days 1 through 4 (p less than 0.001). Although there was no significant difference between groups with respect to episodes of ventricular arrhythmias, there was a significant decrease in the number of episodes of atrial fibrillation in the group receiving magnesium therapy (p less than 0.02). There were no recognized adverse effects of magnesium therapy. Prophylactic magnesium administration seems to lessen the incidence and severity of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting. 
U-78517F: a potent inhibitor of lipid peroxidation with activity in experimental brain injury and ischemia. U-78517F (2-[4-[2,6-di-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-4-pyridinyl)-1-piperazinyl] methyl]-3,4-dihydro-2,5,7,8-tetramethyl-2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol, dihydrochloride), which combines the antioxidant ring portion of alpha-tocopherol together with the amine of the previously described 21-aminosteroids (e.g., U-74006F), is a novel inhibitor of iron-catalyzed lipid peroxidation. U-78517F was found to have a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 0.6 microM against 200 microM ferrous chloride-initiated lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenates, compared to 8 microM for U-74006F, 28 microM for alpha-tocopherol and 43 microM for the ring portion of alpha-tocopherol (i.e., trolox). Both stereoisomers of the racemic U-78517F proved to be equally active antioxidants. Against lipid peroxidation initiated by xanthine/xanthine oxidase, U-78517F was even more potent, with an IC50 of 0.01 microM. U-78517F was also observed to protect cultured mouse spinal neurons against iron-induced damage, with an IC50 of approximately 0.5 microM. When administered to male CF-1 mice i.v. at 5 min after a severe concussive head injury. U-78517F produced a dose-related improvement in the 1-hr neurological recovery. The minimum effective i.v. dose was 1.0 micrograms/kg. Measurement of U-78517 concentrations in the brains of mice after administration of a 10-mg/kg i.v. dose revealed effective antioxidant levels for as long as 2 hr. Evidence of an in vivo antioxidant action was provided by the attenuation of iron-induced blood-brain barrier disruption (i.e., Evans' blue extravasation) in rats pretreated with U-78517F. 
5-HT2 receptor antagonists and migraine therapy. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of migraine, and several drugs with potent 5-HT2 receptor blocking activity (methysergide, pizotifen, cyproheptadine and mianserin) have been recognized as being clinically effective in migraine prophylaxis, although the selective 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin (the principal agent used to identify 5-HT2 receptor-mediated actions) seems to be ineffective in migraine. Pizotifen is the most widely used 5-HT2 receptor antagonist in migraine prophylaxis, because of its superior efficacy compared with cyproheptadine, and because the incidence and severity of adverse effects with pizotifen is lower compared with methysergide and mianserin. These agents have additional antagonistic effects at histamine H1, muscarinic cholinergic, alpha 1-adrenergic, alpha 2-adrenergic and dopamine receptors, but drugs which are selective for these non-5-HT receptors appear to be of no benefit in migraine. Actions mediated by 5-HT2 receptors which could be of relevance to migraine comprise cranial vasoconstriction, increased cranial capillary permeability and platelet aggregation, and some central nervous system effects and neuroendocrine functions. Although pizotifen, cyproheptadine and mianserin are considered to be relatively specific for 5-HT2 receptors, these agents and methysergide all share a high affinity for 5-HT1C binding sites; ketanserin, however, has little affinity for these sites, thus activation of 5-HT1C receptors may be an important step in the pathogenesis of migraine. It is not yet known which 5-HT1C receptor-mediated actions of 5-HT are relevant to migraine, but some behavioural actions and cranial vasodilatation via release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor may be involved. 
Early gastric cancer: a clinicopathologic study. We report our experience, between 1973 and 1989 of 302 patients with gastric cancer in a Dutch general hospital. In 144 (47.7%) of them gastric resection was performed. Twenty-eight patients had early gastric cancer (EGC) (9.3% of the entire series and 19.4% of the resected specimens). Multicentricity of EGC was noted in 3 patients (10.7%). The incidence of EGC decreased slightly during consecutive 8-year intervals. There were 16 men and 12 women (mean age 64 and 66 years, respectively). Standard biphasic contrast radiographic studies of the upper gastrointestinal tract diagnosed or suggested malignancy in all but one patient. Endoscopy with directed biopsy diagnosed malignancy in all patients. Twenty-one lesions (67.7%) were localized to the antral region. Type IIc was most frequent (38.7%). There were 21 intestinal-type and 10 diffuse-type EGC by the Lauren classification. The incidence of intestinal-type EGC decreased during two consecutive 8-year periods. All type I and IIa lesions were of the intestinal type, whereas all diffuse-type EGCs were either type IIc or III. Lymph node metastasis was observed in 9.7% of the lesions. The incidence of lymph node metastasis increased from 0% in mucosal cancer to 20% in submucosal cancer. The overall 5-year survival rate was 91.3%: (diffuse type 100% and intestinal type 85.7%). The 5-year survival rate was 100% in mucosal cancer and 81.8% in submucosal cancer. 
Radiation therapy as local treatment in Ewing's sarcoma. Results of the Cooperative Ewing's Sarcoma Studies CESS 81 and CESS 86. The Cooperative Ewing's Sarcoma Studies, CESS 81 and CESS 86, are multiinstitutional trials with more than 80 participating institutions from Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, and Switzerland. Treatment consists of four courses of multiagent chemotherapy and local therapy. Local therapy was not randomized and was either radical surgery or resection plus postoperative irradiation or definitive radiation therapy. Here results according to local therapy have been analyzed for 93 protocol patients with localized Ewing's sarcoma (ES) who have been recruited in CESS 81 from January 1981 to February 1985 and 122 protocol patients recruited in CESS 86 from January 1986 to November 1989. The 3-year relapse-free survival (RFS) was 55% in CESS 81 and 62% in CESS 86. In CESS 81, the RFS was better for surgically treated than for irradiated patients. In this study there was an extremely high incidence of local failures (50%) after definitive irradiation. In CESS 86, however, the results after radiation therapy have been improved markedly (3-year RFS 67% after radiation therapy, 65% after surgery, and 62% after resection plus irradiation). Possible explanations for the improvement of radiotherapeutic results are as follows: selections for patients for radiation therapy, start of local therapy, and quality of radiation therapy. In CESS 86, irradiated patients were randomized to receive either conventionally fractionated irradiation with less intense chemotherapy or hyperfractionated irradiation with simultaneous chemotherapy. There was no difference in treatment results at the time of analysis. The authors conclude that selection of patients for local treatment modalities and quality of treatment performance has an impact on local and overall treatment results in ES. 
Myointimal hyperplasia as a result of balloon-catheter thromboembolectomy. The balloon-tipped embolectomy catheter is widely utilized in the treatment of arterial thromboemboli, significantly improving mortality and limb salvage rates. However, early and late complications related to catheter-tip injury and balloon trauma continue to occur and compromise the results of surgical intervention. Myointimal hyperplasia is an example of an unusual late complication induced by balloon-related arterial wall trauma. Myointimal hyperplasia is a commonly recognized healing response of the arterial wall to endothelial injury but is rarely reported after balloon-catheter thromboembolectomy. The extensive nature of the injury increases the incidence of limb loss. The pathophysiologic nature of this process is reviewed, and pertinent structural details such as intimal thickening and disruption of the internal elastic lamina are presented. The pathogenesis of myointimal hyperplasia suggests guidelines for catheter use during embolectomy that may further reduce the incidence of this unusual complication. 
Effects of late administration of tissue-type plasminogen activator on left ventricular remodeling and function after myocardial infarction. To evaluate the effects of late thrombolysis on left ventricular volume and function in acute myocardial infarction, two-dimensional echocardiography and radionuclide angiography were performed before discharge and after 1 year of follow-up study in 34 patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction. Of these, 10 admitted to the coronary care unit within 4 h from the onset of symptoms were treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (Group A) and 24 admitted between 4 and 8 h after onset were randomly assigned to receive either rt-PA (Group B, n = 12) or conventional therapy (Group C, n = 12). Seven to 10 days after admission, all patients underwent cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography. Patency of the infarct-related vessel was 70% in Group A, 66% in Group B and 33% in Group C and the average Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) coronary perfusion grade was 1.9 +/- 0.8 for Group A, 1.6 +/- 1.0 for Group B and 0.84 +/- 0.95 for Group C (Group A versus Group C p less than 0.01; Group B versus Group C p less than 0.05). At predischarge evaluation, mean left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes were higher in Group C than in Group B (p less than 0.001 and 0.05, respectively) and Group A (p less than 0.005 for both); mean left ventricular ejection fraction at rest was lower in Group C than in Group B and Group A (p less than 0.05 for both). At 1 year follow-up study, end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes remained higher in Group C than in Group B (p less than 0.05 for both) and Group A (p less than 0.005 for end-systolic volume and p less than 0.001 for end-diastolic volume); ejection fraction at rest was lower in Group C than in Groups A and B (p less than 0.05 for both); during exercise, it increased more in Group A than in Group C (p less than 0.01). Comparison of data obtained before discharge and at the 1 year follow-up study revealed a significant differences in end-systolic volume (p less than 0.05) in Group C patients and in end-diastolic volume in patients in Groups B (p less than 0.05) and C (p less than 0.001). The beneficial effect of late thrombolysis with rt-PA may be related to a reduction in myocardial expansion and thus to a favorable influence on postinfarction left ventricular remodeling. 
Animal models of fulminant hepatic failure. The six requirements for a satisfactory animal model of fulminant hepatic failure are reversibility, reproducibility, death from liver failure, a therapeutic window, a large animal model, and minimal hazard to personnel. Different models may be required to evaluate the various types of liver failure seen in man. The available models include surgical anheptic and devascularization procedures, as well as hepatotoxic drug administration using agents such as carbon tetrachloride, acetaminophen, or galactosamine. Currently combined surgical and drug models appear to provide the best model but the search for the ideal models continues. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor in childhood. A diagnostic and therapeutic dilemma. We describe a case of inflammatory pseudotumor of the lower abdomen in a young child. The urinary bladder and abdominal wall were involved, and the pseudotumor simulated a malignant sarcomatous tumor. Surgical excision was undertaken, and the outcome was favorable. This rare tumor simulates a true neoplasm both clinically and morphologically and presents a diagnostic and therapeutic dilemma. Our case and a review of the literature indicate that an effort should be made to perform a radical excision. This is considered the treatment of choice except if it requires a mutilating procedure. 
Late-infantile type galactosialidosis. Histopathology of the retina and optic nerve. We studied histopathologic findings from the retina and optic nerve of a patient with the late-infantile type of galactosialidosis and related them to clinical features of the condition. Markedly fewer ganglion cells were evident histopathologically using light microscopy. Results of histochemical studies demonstrated abnormal accumulation of lipid and proteinaceous material in the residual swollen ganglion cells. Marked loss of myelinated nerve fibers and thickening of the pial septum were also observed in the optic nerve. Both retinal ganglion cells and amacrine cells had intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies, but none were found in the optic nerve. These findings suggested that optic atrophy was induced by axonal wallerian degeneration secondary to retinal ganglion cell death. Although the fundus showed advanced optic nerve atrophy, a cherry red spot was not evident, possibly because of the marked decrease in ganglion cells in this case. 
Primary surgical treatment for carcinoma of the larynx: influence of the local invasion. In the period from 1976 to 1988, 417 patients with supraglottic carcinoma of the larynx were treated by primary surgery. Infiltration of the pre-epiglottic space was found in 11.99 per cent (50/417) of the patients. Carcinomas of the infrahyoid epiglottis spread to this space more frequently--14.24 per cent (44/309), than those of suprahyoid localization--5.55 per cent (6/108). Tumour invasion of the pre-epiglottic space is a relative contra-indication for reconstructive surgery. Partial conservation operations were performed on 32 per cent (16/50) of patients with invasion of the pre-epiglottic space. The remaining patients had a total laryngectomy. Infiltration of the paraglottic space intra-operatively was found in 2.4 per cent (10/417) of patients and all of these tumours were from the infrahyoid localization. Spread of tumours to this site is an indication for radical surgery and laryngectomy was performed on 80 per cent (8/10) of patients. 
The effect of prostaglandin E1 on acute pulmonary artery hypertension during oleic acid-induced respiratory dysfunction. This study examined the general effect of intravenous PGE1 on RV Ees and effective PA elastance (EA) during acute pulmonary hypertension associated with oleic acid infusion. In eight pigs, RV end-systolic elastance was quantified with the Ees and Ea was defined with reference to the Windkessel model. Oleic acid infusion increased mean PAP and Ea. Prostaglandin E1 reduced PAP and decreased Ea. Ees did not change throughout the study. Mean arterial pressure was reduced and the pulmonary shunt was increased after PGE1 infusion. The PaO2 was reduced. Data from this study suggest that although PGE1 is effective in reducing PAP, it is not as effective in reducing RV afterload. Furthermore, PGE1 does have significant side effects such as reduction of systemic arterial pressure and an increase in pulmonary shunt. 
Alpha 1 blockers. Safe, effective treatment for hypertension. Alpha 1-adrenergic blocking agents, used alone or in combination with other medications, are efficacious in the management of hypertension. They are safe and well tolerated, and they offer unique advantages. Their mechanism of action in lowering blood pressure targets elevated peripheral vascular resistance, which is the principal hemodynamic abnormality of essential hypertension. The alpha 1 blockers maintain cardiac output and blood flow to vital organs, and they do not affect renin release. These agents have beneficial lipid and metabolic effects and can improve left ventricular hypertrophy, theoretically having a positive impact on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The only drug interaction identified with the alpha 1 blockers is an increased hypotensive effect when they are combined with other antihypertensive agents. A further advantage of the alpha 1 blockers is that, because of the widespread location of alpha 1 receptors, the agents offer potential benefit for a number of disease states, including benign prostatic hyperplasia. They also provide an especially useful antihypertensive choice for middle-aged and elderly patients. 
Peripheral neuropathy after chronic endoneurial ischemia. We have developed a method for producing chronic regional nerve ischemia in rats by creating proximal limb arteriovenous shunts. This procedure results in a 50 to 75% reduction in endoneurial blood flow within the distal sciatic nerve as measured by the iodoantipyrine method. Nerve conduction velocities in sciatic nerves ipsilateral to the shunt fell by 25 to 30% within 2 weeks after creation of the shunt and did not recover for up to 10 months after the procedure. Morphological studies of the ischemic nerves showed structural abnormalities at nodes of Ranvier and mild axonal atrophy. Neither segmental demyelination nor axonal degeneration were evident. These results indicate that reduced endoneurial blood flow, insufficient to cause infarction, may result in measurable functional and morphological abnormalities in peripheral nerves. 
Current status of imaging indeterminate renal masses. In 1986 Bosniak proposed a classification of cysts and cystic renal masses in an attempt to define precisely the radiologic findings for lesions not requiring further evaluation and for those that should be explored surgically in an attempt to salvage normal renal parenchyma. This classification has been extremely useful in expanding the number of patients treated conservatively. The following entities can be considered benign and require no further evaluation: the classic simple cyst (Bosniak category 1), a cyst with benign calcification (see Fig. 1A and B), a hyperdense cyst (see Fig. 2), and a cyst with thin (less than or equal to 1mm) septations (see Fig. 5A; Bosniak category 2). When any of the following features are present, further evaluation is warranted: aggressive calcifications (see Fig. 1C-E), abnormal density not fulfilling the criteria of a hyperdense cyst (see Figs. 3 and 4), or nodular septations (see Fig. 5B and C), or wall thickening (see Fig. 7; Bosniak) category 3). Small masses that cannot be characterized accurately also require further evaluation. Multiloculated masses(see Fig. 9) require surgery (Bosniak category 3). Most cases of multiple localized renal cysts can be distinguished from multiloculated masses and do not require surgery (see Fig. 10). Evaluation of cyst fluid by MR imaging has not been proved reliable in differentiating benign and malignant masses. MR imaging will become more useful when its spatial resolution equals that of CT. Masses that remain indeterminate after careful evaluation by ultrasonography and CT scanning can be evaluated additionally by angiography or cyst puncture. Management options for persistent enigmatic masses include follow-up radiologic studies, exploration, local excision, and nephrectomy. 
Stapled ileoanal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis and familial polyposis without a temporary diverting ileostomy. Between March 1989 and August 1990, we performed 21 stapled J pouch ileonal procedures (20 ulcerative colitis [UC], 1 familial polyposis [FP]) without an ileostomy in 19, of whom 13 were taking prednisone and eight underwent semi-emergent surgery for uncontrollable bleeding. During the same time, an additional four patients required a standard ileonal procedure. The results of anal manometry and clinical function were compared to 25 patients who had previously undergone mucosal stripping and a sutured J pouch ileoanal anastomoses with a temporary diverting ileostomy between October 1982 and August 1990. During this same time period, an additional 19 patients underwent an anti-peristaltic reversed J pouch and 18 an S pouch, for a total of 83 ileoanal procedures. The reversed J pouch had a lower stool frequency than a standard J pouch but had an unacceptable incidence of complications and problems with pouch emptying. The S pouch had a stool frequency similar to the standard J pouch but provided greater length in patients with a short mesentery. Stapled J pouch ileoanal patients had a better (p less than 0.02) maximum and sphincter resting pressure (46 +/- 11 versus 34 +/- 12 mmHg), fewer (p less than 0.05) night-time accidents (22% versus 68%), daytime (17% versus 55%) or night-time (28 versus 61%) spotting, or use of a protective pad at night (11% versus 42%) than nonstapled J pouch ileoanal patients. Stool frequency was similar in the two groups. All but one UC patient had residual disease at the anastomosis. Anal mucosa between the dentate line and stapled anastomosis was 1.8 +/- 1.3 cm (range, 0 to 3.5 cm). Complications in the nonstapled J pouch group included 4 pouches excised (2 for complications, 2 for excessive stool frequency), 1 pelvic abscess, 2 stenosis requiring dilation under anesthesia, 1 enterocutaneous fistula after ileostomy closure, 1 ileostomy site hernia, and 2 small bowel obstructions. Of the 65 patients who underwent ileostomy closure in the entire series, 8 (12%) developed a complication requiring surgical intervention. Complications in the stapled group included 1 anastomotic leak, 1 pouch leak, and 1 pelvic abscess. Patients were managed successfully with drainage (all 3) and diverting ileostomy (1). One patient developed stenosis requiring dilation under anesthesia. The stapled J pouch ileoanal anastomosis is a simpler, safer procedure with less tension than a standard handsewn J pouch but leaves a very small cuff of residual disease. It provides significantly better stool control and may obviate the need for an ileostomy with its complications. 
Determination of the extent of lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease with color-assisted duplex sonography: comparison with angiography. Color-assisted duplex sonography combines color Doppler flow imaging with duplex sonography to rapidly survey the vasculature. Color Doppler sonography displays the motion of flowing blood on a sonogram and is used to visualize directly arterial lumen narrowing of greater than 50%. Absence of Doppler signals signifies arterial occlusion. Preangiographic triage of patients for surgical or interventional therapy requires that a rapid and accurate survey be performed of the extent of arterial disease. Color-assisted duplex sonography was applied prospectively in 17 consecutive patients with the clinical diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease who had not previously undergone angiography. Results of angiography of the femoropopliteal arteries were graded and localized in one of seven approximately equal arterial segments. These were compared with similar segmental maps made with sonography. For the detection of stenosis or occlusion in any of the 238 segments, the sensitivity was 0.88 (49/56), specificity 0.95 (173/182), and accuracy 0.93 (222/238). The average time taken to survey both limbs was 29 min. We conclude that color-assisted duplex sonography is an accurate and rapid tool for the noninvasive mapping of the extent of femoropopliteal arterial disease. 
Surgically induced cytokinetic responses in experimental rat mammary tumor models. The effect of surgical removal of "primary" tumors on the cytokinetics of local tumor remnants, secondary implants, and metastases was investigated in three different rat tumor models in the Wag/Rij rat: a slow-growing (MCR83) and a fast-growing (EMR86) hormone-dependent mammary tumor and a rapidly, but autonomously growing carcinoma (MCR86). The latter two tumors had metastatic potential. Cell kinetic studies were done using in vivo labeling with 5'-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd). Thirty-three hours after removal of a subcutaneous MCR83 flank tumor, secondary implants showed a significant (P less than 0.05) but transient increase in the BrdUrd labeling index (LI). A more rapid and prolonged increase, lasting for at least 7 days, was observed in EMR86 lymph node and lung metastases. In both models, no effect was observed after sham surgery (consisting of opening and closing of the skin under anesthesia). Removal of MCR86 tumors (growing in the hind leg muscle) also resulted in a rapid, transient LI increase in metastases. Continuous BrdUrd labeling experiments in this tumor model did not favor the hypothesis that the LI increase predominantly resulted from an increase in the growth fraction. Moreover, in this model, the effect was related to operation trauma. A similar increase in LI, although smaller than after tumor removal, was seen after major surgical trauma in MCR83 flank tumors. These results indicate that in the rat, tumor removal and/or major surgical trauma may modulate the cytokinetics of distant metastases significantly. A study of the systemic, possibly endocrine, factors involved in the growth-stimulating effect of surgical trauma in these rat tumor models may help to assess the clinical relevance of these findings for patients with breast cancer. 
Patterns of venous insufficiency in patients with varicose veins. The nature and distribution of venous disease surrounding the development of varicose veins and its treatment is controversial. Using duplex ultrasonography, we evaluated 54 lower extremities in 32 patients with varicose veins who were symptomatic and had obvious varicose veins by clinical examination. Twenty-eight percent had greater saphenous trunk incompetence, 2% had lesser saphenous trunk incompetence, and 96% had branch disease. Deep valvular incompetence was seen in 41%, saphenofemoral junction incompetence in 46%, and incompetence of one or more perforators in 46% of the extremities. Thirty-three percent demonstrated no evidence of associated saphenofemoral junction, deep vein, or perforating vein incompetence, while 20% had concurrent saphenofemoral junction, deep vein, and perforating vein incompetence. These data support the heterogeneity of venous disease seen in patients with varicose veins and suggest that surgical therapy be directed to a patient's specific pattern of incompetence rather than routine saphenofemoral junction ligation or stripping of the greater saphenous trunk. 
Narrow duct segment distal to choledochal cyst. "Narrow segments" (or stenotic portions) of the common bile duct (CBD) distal to cysts in two patients (a 50-yr-old woman and a 25-yr-old man) with choledochal cyst (CholCyst) were studied macroscopically and histologically. The narrow segments of the ducts were patent and connected with the main pancreatic duct extraduodenally, whereas the CBD in controls were neither dilated nor stenotic, and joined the main pancreatic duct within the duodenal wall. These narrow segments were 1 cm long. In case 1, a minute orifice was found in the narrow segment of the duct macroscopically and was identified microscopically as a small duct from a pancreatic lobule. In case 2, a small pancreatic duct also joined the narrow segment of the duct. These small pancreatic ducts were derived from the ventral pancreas, based on distribution of PP-islets. Therefore, the narrow duct distal to the cyst in patients with CholCyst (or congenital biliary dilatation) was considered to be a branch of the ventral pancreatic duct. 
Retinal migraine, chorea, and retinal artery thrombosis in a patient with primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. We report the case of a patient with the unusual combination of migraine, chorea, and retinal arterial thrombosis along with laboratory evidence of autoimmunity. In the absence of systemic lupus erythematosus, the clinical manifestations suggest the presence of the primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. 
Clinical use of biologic response modifiers in cancer treatment: an overview. Part II. Colony-stimulating factors and interleukin-2. Colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) are hematopoietic growth hormones that stimulate the production, maturation, and function of white blood cells. The best studied are granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF) and granulocyte CSF (G-CSF), both of which can be produced by recombinant DNA technology. Clinical indications for these agents include bone marrow failure secondary to administration of chemotherapeutic drugs or radiation, bone marrow transplantation, and a variety of congenital or iatrogenic neutropenias. Toxicity in usual clinical doses is mild, and consists mainly of bone pain and constitutional symptoms such as fever, headache, and myalgias. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a lymphokine that stimulates that multiplication of several types of killer cells. These cells can recognize and destroy foreign substances, such as tumors, without destroying normal cells. Major applications of IL-2 include treatment of patients with renal cell carcinoma, in whom the overall objective response rate is 15-30 percent, and malignant melanoma with response rates of about 18 percent. Combination therapy with other biologics and conventional cytotoxic drugs may increase IL-2's efficacy against these tumors. Toxicity is generally severe, but reversible. Hemodynamic toxicity, consisting of hypotension, edema, weight gain, and decreased renal function, is most characteristic. Suggestions are given for pharmacologic management of these and other IL-2 toxicities. 
Magnetic resonance imaging shows specific abnormalities in the MELAS syndrome. The MELAS syndrome (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes) can be difficult to identify. We report MRI abnormalities that we believe are specific to this disorder in three patients with complete or partial MELAS syndrome. The patients all showed an unusual pattern on T2-weighted MRI with multifocal areas of hyperintense signal confined to the cortex of the cerebrum, cerebellum, and adjacent white matter. Some images suggested selective cortical involvement of deeper layers only. Deep white matter was relatively spared, distinguishing this from usual cerebrovascular disease or the edema after status epilepticus. Specificity of these findings is further suggested by a good correlation of these findings with the previously described unique postmortem brain pathology of MELAS. 
Electroencephalographic study of rat hyperthermic seizures. The behavior and EEG of rat hyperthermic convulsions was studied. We found that a long run of high-voltage slow waves without convulsions, high-voltage irregular activity consisting of spikes and waves with intermittent myoclonus, and rapid spike and wave bursts accompanied by generalized clonic convulsions occurred sequentially. This behavioral and EEG activity is analogous to human febrile convulsions and supports the usefulness of this model for studies of human febrile convulsions. Rats frequently showed arrest of locomotion concurrently with paroxysmal EEG theta bursts before development of generalized convulsions. We speculate that this paroxysmal activity is a type of seizure discharge. 
Long-term prognosis after partial gastrectomy for benign conditions. Survival and smoking-related death of 2633 Amsterdam postgastrectomy patients followed up since surgery between 1931 and 1960. Decreased life expectancy may occur after remote peptic ulcer surgery, but the cause of shortened survival is unclear. A 50-year follow-up study of an Amsterdam cohort of postgastrectomy patients who underwent ulcer surgery between 1931 and 1960 showed a statistically significant decrease in survival after a postoperative interval of 12 years or more compared with the general population. The shortened life expectancy mainly reflected decreased survival in men. In women, no significant difference in survival compared with the general population was observed. The excess mortality in men was predominantly due to a statistically significant increase in cancer-related deaths. Carcinoma of the lung accounted for the majority of excess mortality. No time relationship between lung cancer death and interval since surgery was observed. Thus, smoking, primarily in men who had undergone surgery for gastric ulcers, seems an important factor contributing to excess mortality and shortened life expectancy. Excess mortality due to tobacco use has also been observed in postmarketing surveillance of H2-receptor antagonists. Therefore, smoking cessation may provide the greatest improvement in the long-term prognosis of peptic ulcer patients, regardless of the treatment. 
Nonpalpable invasive breast cancer. The use of mammography has resulted in 1464 breast biopsies for nonpalpable abnormalities at the University of Virginia in the 10 years 1980 to 1989. Two hundred sixty-four cancerous lesions (18%) were found. One hundred seventy-eight of these (67%) were in situ lesions. Invasive cancer (86 of 264 lesions or 33%) forms the basis for this report. Mammographic findings leading to biopsy were a mass in 61 of 86 cases (71%), microcalcifications in 23 of 86 (27%), or both in 2 of 86 cases. Histologic subtypes were infiltrating ductal (63 of 86), infiltrating lobular (14 of 86), and other infiltrating (9 of 86). Mastectomy was performed in 71 of 86 lesions (82%), lumpectomy/radiation in 14 of 86 (16%), and lumpectomy alone in 1 of 86 lesions. Division of the tumors into size with nodal status revealed 19 of 86 lesions (22%) less than 0.5 cm with 0 of 14 positive nodes. Thirty-nine of eighty-six lesions (46%) measured 0.6 to 1.0 cm with 10 (26%) positive nodes. Twenty-eight of eighty-six lesions (32%) measured more than 1.0 cm with 8 of 28 (28%) positive nodes. Nodal status is unknown for eight patients. Overall 18 of 78 lesions (23%) had positive nodes. Median follow-up is 44 months. Disease-free survival rate is 92% (79 of 86 patients) and overall survival rate is 94% (81 of 86 patients). Six of seven recurrences occurred in node-positive patients. For those with negative or unknown nodes, the disease-free survival rate is 98% (67 of 68 patients). These findings emphasize the benefit of early detection of breast cancer through the use of mammography. 
Screening for cervical cancer by direct inspection. Since cytology-based screening programmes for cervical cancer cannot be provided on a large scale in developing countries, an alternative approach is needed. To find out whether visual inspection of the cervix is an adequate alternative, women with cytological evidence of dysplasia were followed up cytologically and colposcopically until cancer was detected, and the gross appearance of the cervix was recorded at each stage. Although only 40-50% of cancers were accompanied by abnormal-looking cervices, whereas 71% were detectable on cytology and 87% on colposcopy, visual inspection may be useful in areas where cytological screening programmes are not available. 
Mouse platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha gene is deleted in W19H and patch mutations on chromosome 5. The mouse W19H mutation is an x-ray-induced deletion of more than 2 centimorgans on chromosome 5 encompassing the white spotting mutation W (encoded by the Kit protooncogene), patch (Ph), and recessive lethal (l) loci. The platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha gene (PDGFRA) like Kit encodes a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase. By using mouse-Chinese hamster somatic cell hybrids and haplotype analysis in interspecific backcross mice, mouse Pdgfra was mapped to chromosome 5 in tight linkage with Kit. Hybridization of a PDGFRA probe to DNAs from W19H/ + heterozygous mice and patch heterozygous mice, and their wild-type littermates, demonstrated deletion of Pdgfra. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis indicated that Kit and Pdgfra are linked on a 630-kilobase Mlu I DNA fragment. Thus the W19H deletion removes at least two receptor tyrosine kinases and the results suggest Pdgfra as a candidate for the Ph locus. 
Clues and pitfalls in stereotactic biopsy of the central nervous system. We present a 6-year experience on 307 stereotactic biopsy specimens of the central nervous system using Leksell's and Talairach's systems independently and either Leksell or Sedan needles. Patients with deep cerebral lesions (basal ganglia, parasellar, pineal, or third ventricle), those located in highly functional areas or those poorly defined on imaging studies, as well as candidates for brachytherapy, were selected. Smear examination during surgery was a routine procedure followed by conventional histologic methods. Ages ranged from 8 months to 81 years (mean, 33.64 years). The series comprised 258 tumors, 28 nonneoplastic cases, and 21 nondiagnostic samples. Of the 258 tumors, 179 were supratentorial, 28 were infratentorial, 36 were of the pineal area, and 15 were from sellar and suprasellar regions. Results of the histologic examination showed the following: astrocytic tumors, 148 (57.36%); oligodendroglial, 25 (9.68%); ependymal, six (2.32%); primitive neuroectodermal tumors, 17, including 14 pineoblastomas (5.45%) and three medulloblastomas (1.16%), seven lymphomas (2.71%), seven meningiomas (2.71%), four schwannomas (1.55%), eight craniopharyngiomas (3.10%), 12 germinomas (4.65%), and 20 metastases (7.78%). Nontumoral cases included six arteriovenous malformations, six pyogenic lesions, seven infarcts, two hematomas, one multiple sclerosis plaque, one Fahr, one progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, one tuberculosis, one cysticercosis, and one Chagas' encephalitis. Awareness of the cerebellar granular layer in infratentorial targets as well as glial reaction around craniopharyngiomas is essential to avoid misdiagnosis. Difficulties were basically differential diagnosis between well-differentiated astrocytomas vs glial reaction, as well as poorly differentiated neoplasms vs metastases. 
Allergic rash due to antiepileptic drugs: clinical features and management. Optimal management of allergic rash from antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is unclear. We identified 50 patients with 68 reactions (36 to one AED, 10 to two AEDs, and four to three AEDs). The AEDs implicated were carbamazepine, 30; phenobarbital (PB), 20; phenytoin, 16; ethosuximide, one; and AED combination, one. Sixty-three reactions were cutaneous eruptions, three exfoliative dermatitis, and two Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Forty-six reactions were mild (rash only), 18 moderate (systemic symptoms or other organ system involvement), and four life-threatening (all with PB). In most patients with greater than 1 reaction, the second and third reactions were not more severe than the first. Prior antibiotic allergies or nonmedication allergies were no more common than in a control group without reactions. The AED was ceased abruptly in 59 patients (22 of whom did not receive a new AED), tapered in five, and continued unchanged in four. Despite this, there was no status epilepticus (SE) during the reaction or its treatment, and no patient's seizure control deteriorated. In 40 cases, a new AED was added--16 after the reaction had resolved and 24 before total resolution. Rash recurred with the new AED in 50 and 42% respectively (NS). We conclude that, though allergic rashes to AEDs are usually mild, the rare occurrence of severe reactions indicates that the AED should be ceased. This can be done abruptly with minimal risk of SE. A new AED can be added, if necessary, prior to the resolution of the rash without increasing the risk of further reactions. 
Morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in family members of patients with malignant and nonmalignant hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver diseases. Three-hundred forty-one HBsAg-positive family members of 152 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection (47 asymptomatic carriers, 59 with chronic hepatitis, 17 with cirrhosis and 29 with hepatocellular carcinoma) were prospectively studied to determine the morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in the family members of patients with malignant and nonmalignant hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver diseases. Most of the family members had no history of acute hepatitis, were asymptomatic and were unaware of their carrier status. However, 5.3% had stigmata of chronic liver disease, 6% had serum ALT levels that exceeded two times the upper limit of normal and 78% of those who had biopsies had chronic hepatitis with or without cirrhosis. During a follow-up period of 12 to 90 mo (median = 39 mo), 3% had symptoms of chronic liver disease; 24% had transient, recurrent or persistent elevation in serum ALT levels, 1.4% had cirrhosis and 1% had hepatocellular carcinoma. Neither hepatocellular carcinoma in the index patient nor a previous history of hepatocellular carcinoma in the family was associated with an increase in the morbidity and mortality from chronic hepatitis B virus infection in the HBsAg-positive family members. 
Correlation of the optic disc size to glaucoma susceptibility. Previous studies have suggested that a larger optic disc size in blacks as compared with whites is related to the increased glaucoma susceptibility in blacks. In an intraindividual bilateral comparison of 245 white patients with open-angle glaucoma, the authors evaluated whether the glaucomatous optic nerve damage was greater or less in the eye with the larger optic nerve head. Highly myopic eyes were excluded. The difference in optic disc area of one eye as compared with the contralateral eye was not significantly correlated to the differences in visibility of retinal nerve fiber bundles and mean visual field defect between the two eyes. Mean perimetric loss and the retinal nerve fiber layer index were not significantly higher in the eye with the larger or smaller optic nerve head. This indicates that in whites, high myopes excluded, the susceptibility to glaucomatous optic nerve fiber loss may be independent of the optic disc size. 
Actuarial analysis of the occurrence of remissions following thymectomy for myasthenia gravis in 400 patients. The role of thymectomy in the treatment of myasthenia gravis (MG) was analysed in 400 patients affected with generalised MG operated on between 1974-83, and prospectively followed up for five years after surgery. The occurrence of stable remission (SR) (that is, complete clinical drug-free remission that remains stable for all the subsequent follow up) was the endpoint of survival analyses and the distribution of SR time (SRT, that is, the interval from thymectomy to the occurrence of SR) was assessed by actuarial and Cox multivariate analyses. SRT distribution after surgery showed a slow progressive increase of cumulative SR rate that could both be ascribed to a delayed effect of thymectomy as well as reflect the natural history of MG, itself characterised by an increasing probability of spontaneous remission with time. SRT distribution was similar after stratification for all variables studied except when patients without thymoma were stratified for the need for immunosuppressive treatment in addition to thymectomy. Patients without thymoma who did not require additional immunosuppressive therapy (n = 130) had the highest SR rate occurring in the two years after thymectomy, and differed from patients treated with immunosuppressive drugs who showed the highest SR rate five years after surgery. Actuarial analysis has therefore identified a subgroup of patients where SR, occurring in the first years after surgery, is more likely to be ascribed to thymectomy than merely reflect the natural course of the disease. 
Noninfectious colitis associated with short gut syndrome in infants. We describe noninfectious bloody diarrhea in 13 of 16 infants referred for management of short bowel syndrome and parenteral nutrition during a 33-month period. The condition was characterized by bloody, watery stools associated with carbohydrate malabsorption. Colitis occurred at a mean age of 4.2 months during periods of advancing enteral feedings of a hydrolyzed protein- or amino acid-containing formula. Sigmoidoscopy performed in nine patients revealed edema, patchy erythema, loss of normal vascular pattern, and mucosal friability without ulcerations or pseudomembranes. Colonic biopsy specimens demonstrated edema and mixed hypercellularity of the lamina propria, with prominent eosinophilia. Rectal bleeding ceased if formula feedings were decreased or withheld. Of multiple medications administered, sulfasalazine seemed to improve rectal bleeding most effectively in our patients and allowed for more rapid reintroduction of enteral feedings. 
Squamous-cell carcinoma of the anal canal: management with combined chemo-radiation therapy. Twenty patients with squamous-cell carcinoma of the anal canal received combined chemo-radiation therapy as their primary treatment. There were 18 women and two men with a mean age of 63 years (range, 34-91 years). The mean follow-up was 34 months (range, 6-62 months). Anal margin cancers and adenocarcinomas were excluded. Fourteen of 20 patients treated had a complete response. There were six local failures: three with residual disease at the end of treatment and three with recurrent disease at a later date. Of the three with residual disease, one underwent abdominoperineal resection and two received salvage therapy (one with chemo-radiation and one with radiation alone). All three patients with recurrent disease were treated with abdominoperineal resection. All six were disease free at the end of the study. Of the 14 patients with complete local response, one presented with liver metastases 19 months later. Sixteen patients (80 percent) were alive at the end of the study, and 19 patients (95 percent) had no evidence of disease. These data add support for salvage therapy in the treatment of patients with residual disease following initial chemo-radiation therapy. Salvage options for patients with squamous-cell carcinoma of the anus who fail the Nigro protocol will be discussed. 
Comparison of dexamethasone and ondansetron in the prophylaxis of emesis induced by moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial was done to compare the efficacy and safety of a serotonin receptor antagonist--ondansetron--and dexamethasone in the prophylaxis of acute and delayed emesis and nausea induced by moderately emetogenic non-platinum-containing chemotherapy regimens. Patients were treated as outpatients and received intravenous ondansetron 4 mg or dexamethasone 8 mg before chemotherapy and oral maintenance (ondansetron 4 mg every 6 h and dexamethasone reducing from 4 mg to 1 mg 6-hourly between days 1 and 5) for 5 days. 112 patients were treated (38 men, 73 women, 1 with no gender recorded; age range 30-73 years) and 100 were evaluable for cross-over analysis. Patients taking ondansetron or dexamethasone reported no significant difference in complete and major control of acute (83% vs 79%, p = 0.46) or delayed (82% vs 88%, p = 0.214) emesis (vomiting plus retches). Significantly more patients on dexamethasone (87%) than on ondansetron (72%) reported control of delayed nausea (days 2-5) (p = 0.003). Both drugs were well tolerated with no significant difference in the number of adverse events, and this is reflected by similar patient preference for ondansetron (40%) and dexamethasone (30%) (p = 0.244). Both drugs offer adequate out-patient control of chemotherapy-induced emesis; however, dexamethasone has an advantage in the control of delayed nausea, and also in terms of cost and resource allocation. 
Pediatric heart transplantation at Stanford: results of a 15-year experience. The long-term results of pediatric heart transplantation were evaluated in 53 patients, aged 0.25 to 18.94 years, who received transplants at Stanford University Medical Center between 1974 and 1989. Indications for transplantation were idiopathic cardiomyopathy (68%), congenital heart disease (21%), endocardial fibroelastosis (8%), and doxorubicin cardiomyopathy (3%). Immunosuppression was achieved with combinations of cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine. Thirty-seven of 42 recipients leaving the hospital after transplantation were alive and in New York Heart Association class I at study's end. Cumulative survival was 79% at 1 year, 76% at 3 years, and 69% at 5 years. Fourteen recipients have survived more than 5 years (5.1 to 12.4 years). Hospital readmission for illness has been infrequent, decreasing from 6.8 days to 0.9 days per year over 5 years. Eleven patients have required no rehospitalization. Posttransplant deaths were due to infection (19%), rejection (4%), pulmonary hypertension (4%), coronary artery disease (2%), and lymphoproliferative disease (2%). Retransplantation was required for intractable rejection in 4 patients and advanced coronary artery disease in 2. Hypertension and elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels were common in individuals receiving cyclosporine. Growth was often impaired in prepubertal children receiving daily prednisone. Based on this 15-year experience, it is concluded that heart transplantation represents a reasonable alternative for selected young patients with end-stage cardiac disease. 
Evaluation of three oral dosages of ondansetron in the prevention of nausea and emesis associated with cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin chemotherapy. We assessed the antiemetic efficacy and safety of three different oral doses of ondansetron (GR 38032F), a novel serotonin type-3 receptor antagonist, in three consecutive series of 20 breast cancer patients receiving cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-based chemotherapy for the first time. Patients received oral doses of 8 mg, 4 mg, or 1 mg of ondansetron three times daily for 2 days, with the first dose given 30 minutes before the cyclophosphamide infusion. We then evaluated the efficacy of a conventional antiemetic regimen of intravenous lorazepam, metoclopramide, and diphenhydramine given before chemotherapy and 10 mg prochlorperazine given orally twice on study day 1 and three times on study day 2 in a fourth series of 20 patients with comparable characteristics. The number of emetic episodes, assessment of nausea and appetite, and adverse events were recorded throughout the 2-day study period. Pretreatment and posttreatment clinical laboratory data were also collected. No emesis was observed during the 2-day study period in 17 (85%), 13 (65%), and 11 (55%) patients treated with 8-mg, 4-mg, and 1-mg ondansetron doses, respectively, and in seven (35%) patients who received conventional therapy. The incidence and intensity of nausea were lower with increasing doses of ondansetron and were lower than in the conventional group. Ondansetron-related side effects were generally mild and reversible and did not appear to increase in a dose-dependent manner. These effects included headache, stomach cramps, diarrhea, fatigue, and elevated serum transaminase concentrations. One patient who received three 1 mg doses of ondansetron experienced tremors and muscle twitching. Oral ondansetron is an effective and safe antiemetic for patients receiving noncisplatin cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-based chemotherapy, and its antiemetic activity appears to be dose-related. 
Surgical cure of cardiac arrhythmia. 1969. The first surgical procedure undertaken for the intended purpose of curing a patient with recurrent tachycardia was performed by Sealy in 1968, and the report of that operation was published in The Annals of Thoracic Surgery in 1969. The first attempted accessory bundle ablation was successful, marked the beginning of cardiac arrhythmia surgery, and has set the standard against which other methods of arrhythmia control must be measured. 
Relationship of temperature pattern and serious bacterial infections in infants 4 to 8 weeks old 24 to 48 hours after antibiotic treatment. STUDY OBJECTIVE: A new management approach to selected febrile infants 4 to 8 weeks old evaluated for possible sepsis is outpatient ceftriaxone therapy, with subsequent re-evaluation 24 to 48 hours after presentation. This study assessed whether the temperature profile of such infants during the 24- to 48-hour period after treatment distinguished those with from those without serious bacterial infections (SBIs). DESIGN: Prospective, descriptive clinical study. PARTICIPANTS: One hundred sixty-one febrile infants 4 to 8 weeks old. SETTING: An urban pediatric emergency department and hospital. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All infants underwent a sepsis evaluation (lumbar puncture, CBC/blood culture, and urinalysis/urine culture) and were hospitalized for at least 48 hours. Temperatures were measured on presentation and then every four hours during hospitalization. All infants received parenteral third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic therapy, and none received antipyretic medication unless fever was documented. Fever (rectal temperature of more than 38.0 C) was documented during the 24- to 48-hour period after presentation in 28 infants (17.6%)--one of a total of 18 infants (5.6%) with SBI and 27 of a total of 143 infants (19%) without SBI (alpha, more than .2: power .30). All bacterial isolates in cases of SBI were susceptible to third-generation cephalosporin antibiotics. All repeat blood and urine cultures that were performed in infants with bacteremia or urinary tract infections, respectively, were negative 24 hours after presentation. CONCLUSION: Infants 4 to 8 weeks old who remain febrile during the 24 to 48-hour period after presentation and initiation of parenteral antibiotic therapy are less likely to have SBI. This study did not have sufficient power for this difference to be statistically significant. 
Tolerance to somatostatin analogue in a preterm infant with islet cell dysregulation syndrome. An infant of 31 weeks' gestation presented with refractory neonatal hypoglycaemia secondary to islet cell dysregulation. Treatment was started with somatostatin analogue and his glycaemic control improved initially. Tolerance developed, however, in that the dose required to maintain control increased by a factor of 40. The infant subsequently underwent pancreatectomy. It is safe to use somatostatin analogue in a preterm infant, but tolerance to the drug rapidly develops. 
Assessing the feasibility of bronchoplastic surgery with magnetic resonance imaging. Bronchoplastic surgical techniques may allow resectional therapy for non-small cell lung carcinoma in select patients in whom preoperative pulmonary function demonstrates prohibitive risk for pneumonectomy. We report an otherwise poor candidate for pneumonectomy in whom coronal magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated the potential for distal bronchial salvage. 
The evaluation of coronary bypass graft patency: direct and indirect techniques other than coronary arteriography. Patients having one or more coronary artery bypass graft operations constitute an important part of the practice of cardiac radiology. Bypass graft patency can be determined by indirect and direct methods. The indirect imaging methods include radionuclide ventriculography, thallium-201 scintigraphy, and positron emission tomography. The direct methods include conventional CT, ultrafast CT, MR imaging, digital subtraction angiography, and Doppler sonography. This review discusses the advantages and limitations of these methods and attempts to define the relative importance of each of these techniques in the evaluation of bypass graft patency. 
123I-iodoamphetamine SPECT brain imaging in alternating hemiplegia. Alternating hemiplegia of childhood is an unusual disorder characterized by early onset (occurring before 18 months of age); repeated attacks of hemiplegia involving both sides of the body; other paroxysmal phenomena, such as tonic stiffening, dystonic posturing, choreoathetoid movements, ocular motor abnormalities, and autonomic disturbances, in association with bouts of hemiplegia or occurring independently; and evidence of mental or neurologic deficits. A girl was examined because of left hemiplegia at the age of 16 months. The patient had begun exhibiting episodes of alternating hemiplegia at approximately 4 months of age. They consisted of tonic stiffening and dystonia of the right or left extremities, lasting from 30 min to several hours and followed by residual hemiparesis. They were invariably accompanied by ocular motor abnormalities. Magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, and angiography all were normal. Single proton emission computed tomography brain images during an acute episode of right hemiplegia demonstrated hypoperfusion of the left cerebral hemisphere. Following improvement of the hemiplegia, the patient was re-evaluated. The uptake of the radiotracer in the left hemisphere was increased. The scan did not demonstrate significant asymmetry in cerebral perfusion. 
Prolonged lumbar spinal drainage after the resection of tumors of the skull base: a cautionary note. A combined transcranial and facial approach was used for an en bloc resection of a malignant angiosarcoma of the ethmoid sinuses. The patient awoke neurologically intact and was monitored in the Intensive Care Unit. A lumbar subarachnoid drain was placed for the continuous removal of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Approximately 36 hours after surgery, she deteriorated neurologically and demonstrated bilateral extensor posturing to painful stimuli. A computed tomographic scan demonstrated obliteration of the basal cisterns indicative of transtentorial herniation and a small amount of extradural air. Eight hours after the lumbar drain was turned off, the patient had recovered completely. We propose that the patient manifested transtentorial herniation caused by a pressure gradient between the supratentorial and lumbar cistern compartments brought on by the continuous removal of CSF from the lumbar subarachnoid space. We suggest that ventricular drainage should be considered for these cases rather than lumbar drainage. This offers the same advantage of removing the CSF and maintaining low-to-normal intracranial pressure without the risk of transtentorial herniation. 
Prevalence of risk factors in men with premature coronary artery disease. The prevalence of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors (systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol greater than or equal to 160 mg/dl and high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol less than 35 mg/dl) was determined in 321 men less than 60 years of age (mean +/- standard deviation 50 +/- 7) with premature coronary artery disease (CAD) documented at coronary angiography. The prevalence of these risk factors was markedly different than in the Framingham Offspring Study population, used here as a comparison group. In the patients with CAD, only 3% had no risk factor (other than male sex), compared with 31% in the Framingham Offspring Study subjects. Most patients with CAD (97%) had greater than or equal to 1 additional risk factor. When the patients with CAD were divided by age groups (40 to 49 years [n = 109], 50 to 59 [n = 191]), no significant differences were observed in the prevalence of risk factors between the young and older patients. The prevalence of systemic hypertension (41 vs 19%, p less than 0.001), diabetes mellitus (12 vs 1.1%, p less than 0.001), cigarette smoking (67 vs 28%, p less than 0.001) and HDL cholesterol less than 35 mg/dl (63 vs 19%, p less than 0.001) was markedly higher in the patients with CAD than in Framingham Offspring Study subjects, whereas the prevalence of LDL cholesterol greater than or equal to 160 mg/dl was not significantly different between patients with CAD and Framingham Offspring Study subjects (26 vs 26%). 
Reduced postoperative hospitalization after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. An initial experience of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 50 consecutive patients was reviewed and the results compared with those of a group of 25 patients who underwent laparotomy cholecystectomy during the 3 months before the introduction of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was successfully performed in 44 of 50 consecutive patients in whom it was attempted. When compared with laparotomy, laparoscopy cholecystectomy was associated with longer mean (s.d.) anaesthesia, 155 (61) min versus 102 (31) min (P less than 0.001), shorter mean postoperative hospital stay, 3.5 (1.5) versus 8.8 (3.2) days (P less than 0.001), and reduced mean cost, pounds 895 (376) versus pounds 2210 (822) (P less than 0.001). Perioperative morbidity was also reduced following laparoscopy cholecystectomy (9 per cent versus 16 per cent) but not significantly so. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe, effective procedure which completely removes the gallbladder. It significantly reduces hospital stay, is cosmetically satisfactory and has financial benefits. We suggest that this technique be considered for all patients having cholecystectomy. 
The scimitar syndrome. The clinical spectrum of the scimitar syndrome ranges from severely ill infants to asymptomatic adults. The true incidence of the disorder is unknown because the syndrome may remain undetected in asymptomatic patients until a chest roentgenogram is obtained. We have presented the contrasting clinical experiences of two adult women, one with few symptoms and a benign course, and the other with exacerbation of her asthma from recurrent upper respiratory tract infections originating in the lower lobe of her right lung. Improvement resulted from surgical resection of this congenitally abnormal, bronchiectatic segment of lung. 
Use of modified diets in nursing homes. Randomly chosen medical charts of 212 elderly subjects in 11 nursing homes were reviewed to determine which characteristics of the subjects were most closely associated with their diet prescriptions. The chart reviews indicated that 104 (49.0%) of the 212 subjects had some type of nutrient-modified diet prescription. Eight patients who were tube fed were not included in subsequent analyses. Sodium restriction was the most common modification (60 [29.4%] of the remaining 204 patients) and calorie-controlled diets were also common (52 [25.5%] of the patients). Of the 55 patients with hypertension, 31 (56.4%) had no sodium restriction. Only 10% of all low-sodium diets limited sodium to 2 g per day. Of the 38 patients with diabetes, 7 (18.4%) had no prescription for calorie control, and there was no indication that increased dietary fiber was encouraged for diabetic patients. Only one of the 121 subjects with a diagnosis of coronary heart disease or atherosclerosis had a prescription for a cholesterol-lowering diet. Characteristics of the subjects not specifically related to diet or diagnosis, such as age, sex, duration of stay, and level of care, had no significant relationship to diet prescription. These findings suggest that the practitioners in our sample were not convinced of the efficacy of modified diets to control disease for most nursing home residents. 
Cationic Yersinia antigen-induced chronic allergic arthritis in rats. A model for reactive arthritis in humans. Cationic antigens are known to have considerable arthritogenic potential in experimental systems. During a systematic search for suitable, naturally occurring candidates an intracellular protein was isolated from the ribosomal pellet of Yersinia enterocolitica 0:3, a bacterial strain associated with reactive arthritis in humans. The protein is highly cationic, contains two 19-kD polypeptide chains linked by a disulfide bond, and reveals a strong tendency for spontaneous aggregation. It is suggested to be a nucleic acid binding protein. We tested this antigen for its ability to induce arthritis after intra-articular challenge in preimmunized rats. An acute inflammatory phase followed by transition to chronicity was observed both by technetium-99m scintigraphy and from histology. Massive polymorphonuclear leucocyte infiltration of the synovium was seen early on and fibrosis and thickening of the joint capsule occurred in later stages. Control groups showed no evidence of inflammation. Western blot and ELISA analysis of unselected sera from Yersinia enterocolitica 0:3-infected patients revealed antibodies to the antigen in the majority of cases, whereas healthy individuals rarely reacted. This is the first report of a naturally occurring cationic antigen capable of inducing immunologic tissue injury; it justifies the speculation that cationic antigens from prokaryotic cells could trigger reactive arthritis in humans. 
The epidemiology of breast cancer. Table 5 presents risk factors for breast cancer generally regarded as established, together with their approximate relative risks. With the exception of age, country of birth, and a history of breast cancer in both a mother and a sister, all of the relative risks reported to date are of a relatively modest magnitude. Thus, new risk factors need to be identified and knowledge of existing risk factors refined. Factors for which the evidence of an etiologic role has mounted over the past several years, but which are not yet considered to be established, include the protective effects of parity and lactation in certain age groups and the increased risks associated with alcohol consumption and with DES exposure during pregnancy. In addition, physical activity has emerged as a factor worthy of further study. Some evidence suggests that use of oral contraceptives for several years at an early age modestly increases the risk for breast cancer diagnosed before age 35 and perhaps age 45. Use of estrogen-replacement therapy for 20 years or more has been found by a few studies to increase the risk for breast cancer in the postmenopausal years; further studies of very long-term users are needed. Also, other risks and benefits of these hormones need to be taken into account when women decide whether to use them. Surprisingly elusive has been the etiologic role of endogenous hormones, especially in view of the large number of studies that have been concerned with them. A better understanding of the role of endogenous hormones should help explain the mechanisms of action of known and suspected risk factors. Areas of high priority for further research thus include establishing with more certainty whether the risk for breast cancer is increased in any subgroups of women who use oral contraceptives and estrogen-replacement therapy and determining the etiologic roles of specific endogenous hormones. The possible risks associated with alcohol consumption and lack of physical activity need to be studied more thoroughly, and ideas about new potential risk factors are needed. Although epidemiologic studies will continue to be concerned with diet, enthusiasm for its etiologic role in women has been considerably dampened by the lack of association in many of the studies reported to date. The studies in women exposed to radiation, DES, and oral contraceptives suggest that the timing of some exposures may be critical, since the effects of these agents may mostly be limited to specific time periods of rapid breast development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Effect of massive dose vitamin A on morbidity and mortality in Indian children The effect of vitamin A supplementation on preschool child morbidity and mortality was assessed in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study around Hyderabad, India. Every six months 200,000 IU vitamin A was given to 7691 children (treatment group) whereas 8084 children received a placebo (control group). Morbidity and mortality data were collected every three months. Risk of respiratory infection was higher in children with mild xerophthalmia than in children with normal eyes. Vitamin A supplementation had no effect on morbidity status. Mortality rates were similar in the two groups; it was highest in children who did not receive either vitamin A or placebo. The findings suggest that vitamin A supplementation alone may not reduce child mortality. 
Full-field electroretinograms in patients with the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome. We examined five patients who had carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome with full-field electroretinograms. Only two of the patients showed fundus changes typical for retinitis pigmentosa, whereas abnormal electroretinograms were seen in all patients. There was no recordable rod response; however, a delay in the cone b-wave implicit time was noted. All patients had nyctalopia. These observations suggest that patients with the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome have a progressive tapetoretinal degenerative disorder of the retinitis pigmentosa type with defined alterations in the electroretinogram. 
Early coronary reperfusion blunts the procoagulant response of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and von Willebrand factor in acute myocardial infarction. The effects of early coronary recanalization on the plasma levels of two procoagulant acute phase proteins, the fastacting plasminogen activator inhibitor and von Willebrand factor, were investigated in 24 patients with myocardial infarction receiving intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) within 6 h of the onset of symptoms. Coronary angiography was performed before and 90 min after the start of rt-PA infusion. Continuous electrocardiographic recordings and 4 h plasma creatine kinase MB isoenzyme (CK MB) were performed over the first 24 h. Plasma plasminogen activator inhibitor activity, von Willebrand factor and C-reactive protein were measured before rt-PA infusion, daily for the first 3 days and after 90 days. In the entire group, plasminogen activator inhibitor activity peaked at 24 h (day 1), representing a significant increase over values at all other times (p = 0.03). von Willebrand factor was higher in the first 2 days of infarction compared with after 90 days (p = 0.001). C-reactive protein peaked on day 2, with an eightfold increase over values on admission (p = 0.001). In the 16 patients with a patent infarct-related artery at 90 min, infarct size estimated by integrated 24 h CK MB, time for ST segment elevation to decrease to half-maximum and peak C-reactive protein were reduced significantly by more than twofold compared with values in the 8 patients with an occluded artery at 90 min. The patients with early recanalization also had lower plasminogen activator inhibitor activity on day 2 (p = 0.05) and day 3 (p = 0.02) and lower 0 to 72 h averaged von Willebrand factor (p = 0.01). Thus, early coronary recanalization curtails the response of plasminogen activator inhibitor activity and von Willebrand factor to myocardial infarction, most likely by reducing the extent of ischemia and necrosis and the consequent acute phase reaction. By blunting the early postinfarction procoagulant state, prompt recanalization may reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications in the first days after myocardial infarction. 
Prediction of outcome after mitral valve replacement in patients with symptomatic chronic mitral regurgitation. The importance of left atrial size. BACKGROUND. The ability to predict outcome after mitral valve replacement remains limited in patients with symptomatic chronic mitral regurgitation. The aims of this study were to determine the preoperative predictors of postoperative cardiac-related mortality and to assess the additive prognostic value of tests performed in such patients. METHODS AND RESULTS. Accordingly, 176 patients (mean age, 57 +/- 14 years) who underwent mitral valve replacement were followed up for 3.8 +/- 0.5 years. Four categories of variables were analyzed to predict postoperative cardiac-related mortality: clinical, laboratory, two-dimensional echocardiographic (2DE), and cardiac catheterization. There were 39 cardiac-related deaths (29 due to congestive heart failure and 10 sudden). When the four categories were analyzed separately, two clinical, one laboratory, two 2DE, and one catheterization variable best predicted postoperative death. When these six variables were examined simultaneously, only three (one clinical and two 2DE) remained significant predictors of cardiac-related mortality: presence of pulmonary rales, left atrial size, and the ratio of left ventricular wall thickness to left ventricular cavity dimension in end systole. A model based on these three variables may predict cardiac-related death with considerable accuracy. Laboratory data did not add to clinical information for predicting death. 2DE variables provided significant additional information in this regard (p less than 0.001). Further addition of catheterization variables was not useful. Prognostic value did not change significantly when 50 patients with prior mitral valve surgery or 49 patients undergoing concomitant aortic valve replacement or coronary artery bypass surgery were excluded from analysis. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that 1) measures of both left ventricular systolic function and left atrial size are equally important in predicting postoperative cardiac-related mortality in patients with symptomatic chronic mitral regurgitation undergoing mitral valve replacement; 2) left atrial size may be important because it reflects the "history" (severity and duration) of mitral regurgitation; 3) 2DE assessment of left atrial size and left ventricular function provides prognostic information that is significantly greater than that obtained from clinical and laboratory parameters alone; the addition of catheterization variables does not increase the prognostic value of the clinical and 2DE data. 
Vocal cord paralysis in the Shy-Drager syndrome. A cause of postoperative respiratory obstruction. A case is presented in which unexpected and persistent postoperative respiratory problems led to the finding of bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis and confirmed the diagnosis of the Shy-Drager syndrome. Anaesthetists should be aware that vocal cord paralysis may be a feature of this uncommon condition, and should consider the possibility of glottic obstruction as a cause of ventilatory difficulties. 
Expression of Tn, sialosyl Tn, and T antigens in human pancreas. Carbohydrate antigens representing some of the initial steps in mucin O-linked glycosylation were examined in specimens of normal pancreas, chronic pancreatitis, and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Tn antigen, recognized by Vicia villosa lectin, was expressed by all specimens of normal pancreas (acinar cells) and pancreatic cancers and all but one case of chronic pancreatitis. Sialosyl Tn antigen, recognized by monoclonal antibody TKH2, was expressed in a cancer-associated fashion, being completely absent in normal pancreas but expressed by 56% of chronic pancreatitis and 97% of pancreatic cancers. T antigen, recognized by monoclonal antibody AH9-16, was expressed in 68% of normal pancreas (acinar cells), 67% of chronic pancreatitis, and 48% of pancreatic cancer tissues. These results indicate that normal acinar cells of the pancreas are capable of expressing selected carbohydrate structures associated with the initial steps of mucin glycosylation. The marked expression of sialosyl Tn compared with T antigen in pancreatic cancers suggests that with malignant transformation there is selective usage of glycosyltransferase enzymes involved in mucin oligosaccharide synthesis. 
Ventilatory dysfunction precedes pulmonary vascular changes in monocrotaline-treated rats. Rats with established monocrotaline (MCT)-induced pulmonary hypertension also exhibit a profound increase in lung resistance (RL) and a decrease in lung compliance. Because airway/lung dysfunction could precede and influence the evolution of MCT-induced pulmonary vascular disease, it is important to establish the temporal relationship between development of pulmonary hypertension and altered ventilatory function in MCT-treated rats. To resolve this issue, we segregated 47 young Sprague-Dawley rats into four groups: control (n = 13), MCT1 (n = 9), MCT2 (n = 11), and MCT3 (n = 14). Each MCT rat received a single subcutaneous injection of MCT (60 mg/kg) 1 MCT1), 2 (MCT2), or 3 (MCT3) wk before the functional study. At 1 wk after MCT, significant increases in RL and alveolar wall thickness were observed, as was a significant decrease in carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO). Medial thickness of pulmonary arteries (50-100 microns OD) and right ventricular hypertrophy were not observed until 2 and 3 wk post-MCT, respectively. Coincident with the right ventricular hypertrophy at 3 wk post-MCT were decreased DLCO and increased alveolar wall thickness and lung dry weight. Pressure-volume curves of air-filled and saline-filled lungs showed marked rightward shifts during the 1st and 2nd wk after MCT administration and then decreased at the 3rd wk. These data suggest that MCT-induced alterations in airway/lung function preceded those of pulmonary vasculature and, therefore, implicate airway/lung dysfunctions as potentially contributing to the later development of pulmonary vascular abnormalities. 
Effects of training on metabolic responses and performance capacity in Streptococcus pneumoniae infected rats. These experiments were designed to study whether endurance training prior to Streptococcus pneumoniae infection in rats (N = 15 in each group) alters lethality, performance capacity, and related energy metabolism. A 5-d.wk-1, 4-wk-long pre-infection training program with gradually increasing swim time caused no protection from lethality (48% at 72 h post-inoculation), but performance capacity increased by 68% (P less than 0.01). The catabolic responses as evidenced by changes in insulin and glucagon levels were less pronounced. Mobilization of free fatty acids increased twofold (P less than 0.01), and improved ketonemic adaptation (47%, P less than 0.01) occurred with concomitant saved carcass, liver, and skeletal muscle glycogen contents (P less than 0.01). This shift from carbohydrate toward fat metabolism during exercise as a result of training was also reflected by 21% lower (P less than 0.01) blood lactate levels. It was concluded that the improved metabolic status, characterizing the trained as compared with the untrained host, is partly preserved during ongoing acute gram-positive bacterial infection. 
Monitoring of human cytomegalovirus infections and ganciclovir treatment in heart transplant recipients by determination of viremia, antigenemia, and DNAemia. Fourteen heart transplant recipients were monitored for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection based on determination of antigenemia, viremia, and DNAemia (by polymerase chain reaction [PCR]) in peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL). Three patients had symptomatic primary, 10 had recurrent (3 asymptomatic), and 1 (seronegative) had no HCMV infection. Severe clinical symptoms appeared when levels of viremia/antigenemia were greater than 50 infected PMNL/2 x 10(5) cells examined. Of 200 blood samples examined, 93 (46.5%) were positive for viremia/antigenemia and DNAemia, whereas 48 (24.0%) were positive for DNAemia only; 59 (29.5%) were negative in all assays. Follow-up of HCMV infections in heart transplant recipients showed that PCR can detect viral appearance in blood 7-10 days earlier than assays for antigenemia/viremia. On the other hand, viral disappearance from blood, as assessed by PCR, occurred weeks or months later than revealed by other assays. Detection of virus by PCR only was never associated with overt HCMV-related clinical symptoms. Of the 8 symptomatic patients treated with ganiclovir, 2 became PCR-negative at the end of treatment and 1 cleared virus from blood in the following weeks, whereas 5 showed persistent or recurrent infection. 
The importance of adequate anticoagulation to prevent early thrombosis after stenting of stenosed venous bypass grafts. Stent implantation in native coronary arteries may be complicated by acute thrombosis, despite the use of stringent anticoagulation. Thrombotic occlusion of stented venous grafts may occur less frequently, possibly because of the larger caliber of these grafts. We report our experience with 46 stents (Wallstent, Medinvent, Lausanne, Switzerland) implanted in 35 lesions of 24 consecutive patients (mean age 64 years, range 43 to 75). Two overlapping stents were implanted in seven patients, and three overlapping stents were positioned in two. After implantation, activated partial thromboplastin time was maintained at two to three times the control level by intravenous administration of heparin (160 to 550 mg daily) until thrombotest values were reduced 5% to 10% by acenocoumarol. Impending thrombotic occlusion was recognized in two suboptimally anticoagulated patients: patient A after implantation of four stents and patient B after anticoagulation therapy was discontinued because of acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Coronary artery bypass grafting was performed successfully in both patients. A third patient had a myocardial infarction on day 7 after stent implantation, in spite of adequate anticoagulation and optimal medical drug therapy. It is concluded that stringent anticoagulation therapy appears mandatory to maintain graft patency after stent implantation. 
The value of MCA, CA 15-3, CEA and CA-125 for discrimination between metastatic breast cancer and adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. MCA, CA 15-3, CEA and CA 125 were determined in the serum of 49 patients with metastatic breast cancer and 38 patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. By using the 99th percentile of the normal value distribution as the cut-off point, the positive predictive value (PV+) was found to be 85% (95% CI 76-94) for MCA, and 71% (95% CI 61-81) for CA 15-3. When receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed, the PV+ for CA 15-3 was increased to 82% (95% CI 72-92), using 60 U ml-1 as the cut-off point. With the exception of two patients who had a slightly elevated MCA, MCA and CA 15-3 identified the same patients with breast cancer. By combining a positive MCA or CA 15-3 with a negative CEA and CA 125, further improvement of the PV+ could be achieved; 100% (95% CI 91-100). We conclude that MCA and CA 15-3 may play a useful role in discrimination between patients with metastatic breast cancer and those with adenocarcinoma of other primary sites. 
Surgical risk of hemorrhage in cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is increasingly recognized as a cause of lobar cerebral hemorrhage in normotensive elderly individuals. Isolated reports have suggested that neurosurgical intervention entails a high risk of precipitated hemorrhage. We identified 16 pathologically confirmed cases of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Fourteen of these patients presented with lobar cerebral hemorrhage. Fifteen neurosurgical procedures in eight patients included eight clot evacuations, three abscess drainage procedures, two ventriculoperitoneal shunts, one biopsy, and one lobectomy. Recurrent postoperative cerebral hemorrhage was seen in four patients at 2 days, 9 days, 6 weeks, and 10 months, but surgery was thought to have precipitated the cerebral hemorrhage in only one patient. Recurrent cerebral hemorrhage also was seen in two of the eight nonoperated cases. Recurrent cerebral hemorrhage is characteristic of cerebral amyloid angiopathy, but we conclude that neurosurgical intervention, particularly evacuation of hematomas, is not associated with major risk of precipitated hemorrhage. 
Recurrent abdominal pain due to chronic appendiceal disease. Recurrent appendicitis and chronic appendicitis are the subjects of much controversy, but long-standing inflammation of the appendix and surrounding tissues has been reported in rare instances. We have described two patients, both with recurrent episodes of abdominal pain, who subsequently were shown to have chronic appendiceal disease. Appendiceal disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with recurrent abdominal pain. 
Gynecological malignancies, brain tumors, and familial adenomatous polyposis. The syndrome of familial adenomatous polyposis has a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations including adenomatous polyps of the colon and small bowel, adenocarcinoma of ampulla of Vater, tumors of the central nervous system, bone lesions, and various soft tissue tumors. The one common denominator is colonic polyposis. It is not known whether this phenotypic heterogeneity is due to various genotypes, or if the entire clinical spectrum is due to one genetic defect. We are reporting the association of gynecologic malignancies with familial adenomatous polyposis as an additional variant of this disease. This report is on two sisters from a family with familial polyposis coli who developed adenomatous polyposis of the colon, central nervous system tumors, and cancers of the ovary and uterus. The gynecological malignancies add another variant to this clinical syndrome. 
Early experience with mitral valve reconstruction for mitral insufficiency. Mitral valve repair for mitral regurgitation has been reported to have more favorable early and late results than mitral valve replacement. From July 1985 through July 1990, 63 patients have undergone valve repair at Good Samaritan Hospital. Twenty-two men and 41 women whose ages ranged from 34 to 81 years (mean 67.9 years) were treated. Twenty-eight patients were in New York Heart Association functional class III or IV. Twelve (19%) had undergone prior cardiac surgery. Isolated valve repair was performed in 18 patients. Valve repair was combined with coronary artery bypass grafting, other valve procedures, or aneurysm resection in the remainder (71%). Two patients (3%) died while in the hospital, and four deaths (one valve-related) occurred after discharge. Leaflet resection for ruptured chordae was done in 24 patients (38%), chordal shortening in 5 patients (8%), and leaflet transposition in 2 patients. Rigid ring annuloplasty (Carpentier) was performed in 62 patients. Eight patients required mitral valve replacement at the same operation because of unsatisfactory valve repair. Results of valve repair evaluated by echocardiography at discharge show that 48 patients (88%) are free of significant regurgitation. Follow-up to date reveals that all surviving patients who underwent valve repair have clinically improved and are stable. Four of five patients with moderate mitral regurgitation are currently asymptomatic. There have been two valve-related late failures requiring reoperation. Based on this early experience, we conclude that valve repair compared with mitral valve replacement has a low operative mortality with good early results. Continued efforts to preserve native mitral valve function in the presence of mitral regurgitation appear justified. 
Idioventricular rhythm: hypervagotonia associated with placebo. We report a case of hypervagotonia manifested by idioventricular rhythm in a healthy, athletic man who participated in a Phase I study of an investigational calcium-channel blocker. Upon breaking the study's double-blind study code, it was discovered that the subject had received placebo. We discuss this unusual finding and the implications of including athletic subjects in safety/tolerance studies. 
Cardiogenic shock after acute myocardial infarction. Incidence and mortality from a community-wide perspective, 1975 to 1988 BACKGROUND. Cardiogenic shock resulting from acute myocardial infarction is a serious complication with a high mortality rate, but little is known about whether its incidence or outcome has changed over time. As part of an ongoing population-based study of acute myocardial infarction, we examined trends over time in the incidence and mortality rate of cardiogenic shock after acute myocardial infarction. METHODS. We studied 4762 patients with acute myocardial infarction who were admitted to 16 hospitals in the Worcester, Massachusetts, metropolitan area between 1975 and 1988. We determined the incidence of and short-term and long-term mortality due to cardiogenic shock in each of six years during this study period. RESULTS. The incidence of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction remained relatively constant, averaging 7.5 percent. Multivariate regression analysis that controlled for variables affecting incidence revealed significant though inconsistent temporal trends in the incidence of cardiogenic shock. As compared with the risk in 1975, the adjusted relative risk (with 95 percent confidence interval) was 0.83 (0.54 to 1.28) in 1978, 0.96 (0.63 to 1.48) in 1981, 0.68 (0.42 to 1.12) in 1984, 1.16 (0.70 to 1.92) in 1986, and 1.65 (0.99 to 2.77) in 1988. The overall in-hospital mortality rate among patients with cardiogenic shock was significantly higher than that among patients without this complication (77.7 percent vs. 13.5 percent, P less than 0.001). The in-hospital mortality among the patients with shock did not improve between 1975 (73.7 percent) and 1988 (81.7 percent). Long-term survival during the 14-year follow-up period was significantly worse among patients who survived cardiogenic shock during hospitalization than among patients who did not have shock (P less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. The results of this observational, community-wide study suggest that neither the incidence nor the prognosis of cardiogenic shock resulting from acute myocardial infarction has improved over time. Both in-hospital and long-term survival remain poor for patients with this complication. 
Preconditioning causes improved wall motion as well as smaller infarcts after transient coronary occlusion in rabbits. BACKGROUND. A brief coronary occlusion before a more prolonged occlusion results in less myocardial infarction than the longer occlusion alone. However, the effects of this preconditioning on recovery of systolic function after coronary occlusion have not been determined. METHODS AND RESULTS. Ultrasonic crystals implanted in rabbit myocardium measured segment length in the distribution of a branch of the left coronary artery that was fitted with a snare occluder. Rabbits were randomly allocated to either nonpreconditioned or preconditioned groups. Rabbits in the latter group underwent preconditioning with a 5-minute coronary occlusion followed by 10 minutes of reperfusion. Then the coronary artery was occluded for 20 minutes in all rabbits, after which it was allowed to reperfuse for 90 minutes. The hearts were then excised, and infarct size was measured by staining with triphenyltetrazolium chloride. During coronary occlusion, all hearts except one demonstrated either akinesis or paradoxical bulging. Five minutes after release of the 20-minute occlusion, active shortening had returned in the preconditioned rabbits and averaged 27.9 +/- 16.6% of baseline shortening. At the same time, paradoxical lengthening persisted in nonpreconditioned rabbits (-15.5 +/- 19.8% of baseline). By the end of the 90-minute reperfusion period, segment shortening averaged 40.1 +/- 8.4% of baseline in preconditioned rabbits and only 6.2 +/- 12.0% in nonpreconditioned rabbits (p less than 0.05). Infarct size as a percentage of risk area was significantly smaller in preconditioned rabbits as well (3.0 +/- 1.6% versus 28.8 +/- 7.0%, p less than 0.002) and likely accounted for the improved shortening. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that a brief coronary occlusion before a more prolonged occlusion results in not only reduced infarct size but also significantly better recovery of systolic function. 
The use of immobilized protamine in removing heparin and preventing protamine-induced complications during extracorporeal blood circulation. Heparin, currently used in extracorporeal blood circulation procedures, may lead to hemorrhagic complications. Protamine, used for reversal of heparin-induced anticoagulation at the end of such procedures, can cause adverse hemodynamic responses. To prevent both types of complications, we have developed a reactor device containing immobilized protamine (i.e., a protamine bio-reactor) that can be placed at the distal end of the circuit, thus providing simultaneous extracorporeal heparin removal and protamine treatment. In preliminary in vivo studies involving dogs at a blood flow of 100 ml/min, the bio-reactor removed about 50% of the administered dose of heparin (i.e., 100 units/kg) in 10 min. While rapid injection of protamine in dogs anticoagulated with heparin produced a transient and significant (P less than 0.005) decreases in systemic arterial blood pressure (-39.5 +/- 9.2 mmHg), cardiac output (-1.59 +/- 0.23 L/min), and mixed venous oxygen saturation (-7.5 +/- 1.3%) and increases in pulmonary artery systolic (+12.7 +/- 4.4 mmHg) and diastolic pressures (+10.0 +/- 3.6 mmHg), the use of the protamine bio-reactor did not elicit any statistically significant change in any of the variables measured. Hemolysis was not significant, as reflected by a statistically insignificant change of the animals' red blood cell counts, hematocrits, and total hemoglobin values. In addition, hemolytic complement was found to be reduced only by 10% in animals with the protamine bio-reactor, whereas it was reduced rapidly by 20% in animals receiving intravenous protamine administration and progressively by 20% in control animals with a sham reactor that contained no protamine. Furthermore, the use of the protamine bio-reactor also significantly reduced the protamine-induced transient thrombocytopenic and granulocytopenic responses. The white blood cell counts and platelet counts decreased to 87.7 +/- 7.5 and 83.3 +/- 5.0% of baseline, respectively, in dogs with the protamine bio-reactor compared to 35.5 +/- 14.3 and 32.1 +/- 8.1% of baseline in dogs receiving intravenous protamine. The protamine bio-reactor may provide a unique means to simultaneously control both heparin- and protamine-induced complications. 
Molteno implantation for glaucoma in young patients. Seventy patients younger than 21 years of age underwent Molteno implantation for nonneovascular glaucoma. Fifty-three (76%) patients had failed angle and/or conventional filtering surgery. Final intraocular pressure less than 22 mmHg (but over 5 mmHg) was achieved in 40 (62%) of the 65 patients with at least 6-month follow-up (range, 6 to 59 months; mean +/- standard deviation, 22.7 +/- 14.1 months); however, only 22 (34%) were controlled after the initial Molteno implantation procedure, and 54 (83%) patients underwent further glaucoma and/or nonglaucoma surgical procedures. The visual acuities remained within one line of their preoperative levels or improved in 25 (68%) of the 37 patients on whom Snellen acuities were available. The most frequent complications included: tube-cornea touch (20%, transient in 3%), corneal edema (17%), retinal detachment (16%), tube block (10%), cataract (9%), chronic hypotony or phthisis (9%), pupillary or cyclitic membrane (9%), hyphema (7%), flat anterior chamber (6%), and large postoperative choroidal effusion (6%). Despite the high rates of subsequent surgical interventions and complications, Molteno implantation has been a useful approach for achieving intraocular pressure reduction in young patients with glucoma. 
Relation of upper gastrointestinal bleeding to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin: a case-control study. We conducted a case-control study in five general hospitals in the region of Antwerp, studying 161 patients (102 men, 59 women) and hospital control subjects matched for age and sex to explore the relation between drug use and upper gastrointestinal bleeding from 'erosive lesions' (peptic oesophagitis, gastric erosions, gastric ulcer(s), or duodenal ulcer(s]. There was a highly significant difference between cases and control subjects in the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, excluding aspirin) (odds ratio 7.4, p less than 0.001; 95% confidence interval odds ratio 3.7 to 14.7). There also was a significant difference in the use of aspirin (odds ratio 2.2, p = 0.025; 95% CI odds ratio 1.3 to 4.0) and a highly significant difference regarding the presence of antecedents of peptic ulcer disease (odds ratio 5.5, p less than 0.001; 95% CI odds ratio 3.2 to 9.6). There was no significant difference in the use of other drugs, paracetamol and corticosteroids in particular, nor in the use of alcohol or tobacco. The patient group using NSAIDs was older, had more women, and had a higher mortality than the group not using NSAIDs. Among patients with bleeding gastric or duodenal ulcer(s), NSAID users were not more or less likely to have had symptoms of peptic ulcer disease, and had no higher frequency of multiple gastric or duodenal ulcers. The attributable risk for NSAID use was 0.30 (95% CI 0.23 to 0.37) and for aspirin use 0.14 (95% CI 0.08 to 0.20). 
Dietary protein restriction stress and adrenocortical function: evidence for transient and long-term induction of enhanced cellular function. Previous work has demonstrated that 4-week protein restriction of the domestic fowl (Gallus gallus domesticus) increases both adrenocortical cell sensitivity to ACTH and corticosteroidogenic capacity. In the present study we examined the transience (study 1) and the persistence (study 2) of this effect of protein restriction. In study 1, two strains of domestic fowl were used: a slower-growing White Leghorn strain and a faster-growing Cobb broiler strain. Cockerels (2 weeks old) were fed isocaloric diets containing either low (L; 5% or 8%) or control (C; 20%) levels of soy protein for 2 weeks, and then were either switched to the alternate diet (C-L, L-C) or maintained on the initial diet (C-C, L-L) for an additional 2 weeks. Cockerels were killed at 6 weeks of age. In study 2, White Leghorn cockerels (2 weeks old) were fed either diet for 4 weeks and then switched to or maintained on the control diet for an additional 4 weeks (i.e. C vs. restriction followed by repletion). In this study cockerels were killed at 10 weeks of age. In both studies highly enriched populations of adrenocortical cells were isolated from cockerel adrenal glands, and their steroidogenic properties (basal and maximally induced corticosterone and cAMP production; steroidogenic agent ED50 values) were evaluated in 2-h suspension incubations. In study 1, regardless of strain, the greater the length of the restriction period, the greater the magnitude of maximal cellular corticosterone production induced by ACTH; the average value for 4-week restriction (L-L) was 39.5% greater than that for 2-week restriction (L-C, C-L) and 117.5% greater than that for control (C-C). In addition, the value for restriction from 4-6 weeks of age (C-L) was 34% greater than that for restriction from 2-4 weeks of age (L-C), suggesting that the enhancement of maximal ACTH-induced corticosterone production after a 2-week restriction interval might be transient. Although there were no strain differences in the effect of protein restriction on maximal ACTH-induced corticosterone production, there were strain differences in its effect on cellular sensitivity to ACTH, as indicated by the ACTH ED50 values (the lower the ED50 value, the greater tha cellular sensitivity). With the White Leghorn strain, the greater the duration of protein restriction, the greater the adrenocortical cell sensitivity to ACTH; the sensitivity of L-L cells was 3.0 times the sensitivities of L-C and C-L cells and 4.1 times the sensitivity of C-C cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Asperger's syndrome: who is being abused? Six case histories of children referred and admitted to a psychiatric inpatient unit at a tertiary referral centre because of concerns about poor functioning and possible emotional abuse are presented. On initial assessment the children appeared to be well functioning and the impression was confirmed that their emotional needs were not being met by their parents. After detailed inpatient appraisal the diagnosis of Asperger's syndrome was made in all six cases, exemplified mainly by a formal concrete way of thinking and an inability to identify and understand human emotions and relationships. The impact of the diagnosis on the parents and their consequent relationships with their child and their willingness to work with professionals is discussed. 
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and early mortality. To assess morbidity, mortality, and benefit associated with percutaneous endoscopic gastronomy (PEG), we retrospectively studied 42 patients who had had PEG. Mortality was exceptionally high during the first 60 days after PEG (43%), and then stabilized. In nearly half of the cases (20/42) the PEG tube was removed during the first 60 days because of either death or improvement. Patients with malignancy had a significantly higher morbidity and 60-day mortality than the neurologically impaired. We concluded that patients should be carefully selected for PEG because early mortality is high; a 60-day trial of soft nasogastric feedings should be considered before PEG, and could reduce by nearly half the number of patients failing to receive long-term benefit; and patients with malignancy have significantly greater morbidity and mortality after PEG and may not receive the same advantage from the procedure. 
Localization of receptors for luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in pancreatic and mammary cancer cells. Previous work showed that hamster and human pancreatic tumors but not normal pancreata exhibit low-affinity cell-membrane receptors for luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). Although the regression of experimental pancreatic cancers induced by treatment with LHRH agonists or antagonists could be explained in part by the creation of sex-steroid deficiency, direct effects mediated by LHRH receptors might also play a role. Here, we demonstrate that pancreatic tumor cells do exhibit high-affinity binding sites for LHRH, but only in their nuclei; low-affinity sites are associated with the cell membranes. These binding sites appear to be LHRH receptors since electron microscopic immunohistochemical studies show that an antibody to the LHRH receptor reacted with sites in the nucleus of pancreatic tumor cells. Immunoreactive sites in the nucleus also were found in a restricted set of normal hamster pituitary cells thought to be luteinizing hormone-secreting cells and in MXT mouse mammary tumor cells. Such nuclear receptors may be involved in the transmission of the direct action of LHRH analogues on the tumor cells, resulting in the enhancement of programmed cell death. 
Pneumonitis associated with coinfection by human herpesvirus 6 and Legionella in an immunocompetent adult. The authors report a case of pneumonitis in a young healthy man caused by coinfection with human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) and Legionella pneumophila. The patient's course was complicated by severe respiratory, renal, hepatic, and central nervous system dysfunctions, which were believed to be primarily the results of his Legionella infection. Aggressive antibiotic treatment produced no response, and Legionella remained isolatable from lung tissue throughout several weeks of antimicrobial therapy. Human herpesvirus 6 was isolated from a sample of peripheral blood during the acute stage of the patient's illness, and numerous HHV-6--infected macrophages and lymphocytes were detected by immunohistochemical staining of biopsy-derived lung tissue. Paradoxically treatment of the patient with high-dose corticosteroids resulted in dramatic improvement of his condition, including clearance of the Legionella infection. The demonstration that corticosteroids efficiently inhibit HHV-6 replication in vitro suggests that the virus may have contributed to the patient's pneumonitis by enhancing tissue inflammation, by compromising the function of pulmonary macrophages, and, perhaps, by destroying the patient's CD4+ T lymphocytes. Human herpesvirus 6 may be able to function as a synergistic cofactor in lung infections by Legionella and other pathogens. 
Determination of cerebrospinal fluid shunt obstruction with magnetic resonance phase imaging. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow rates in 12 patients with symptoms suggestive of CSF shunt obstruction were measured with magnetic resonance (MR) phase imaging. The shunts were imaged over the skull, just distal to any reservoir, using a curved surface coil. Images perpendicular to the direction of flow were made on a 1.5-tesla clinical unit with a flow-sensitive pulse sequence. The patients' ages ranged from 2 months to 28 years. All patients had ancillary investigations to determine the functional status of the shunt. No flow was detected in seven patients with blocked shunts. Flow rates between 3 and 40 cc/hr were found in three patients with functioning shunts. Two patients, one with a blocked shunt and one with a functioning shunt, could not be imaged due to motion artifact. Magnetic resonance phase imaging is a promising technique in the determination of CSF shunt obstruction. 
An analysis of the aetiology of early childhood deafness. It is generally believed that one in every thousand children is profoundly deaf. An understanding of the aetiology of early childhood deafness and timely detection is crucial in rehabilitation of these children. This study analyses the aetiology of early childhood deafness and shows that deafness is more often acquired than inherited. Non-syndromic deafness, especially occurring on its own, usually produces profoundly deaf children and thus there is the need for genetic studies--in the child, laterally, and longitudinally into generations. Meningitis appears to be the commonest cause of acquired deafness, especially if due to pneumococcus. Only 40 of the 80 cases presented before the age of 2 years. It was therefore interesting to note what factors invoked awareness of deafness to facilitate early presentation. 
The effect of cryopreservation on the development of S- and G2-phase mouse embryos. The survival rate and development of four-cell-stage mouse embryos frozen and thawed in S phase versus G2 phase was compared. Significantly more G2-phase than S-phase embryos survived freezing and thawing. In both groups, disruption of the zona pellucida, fusion of blastomeres, and dispersion of chromosomes were occasionally observed after thawing. Cryopreservation resulted in a longer delay in cleavage from the four- to the eight-cell stage of S (about 5 hr)- and G2-phase embryos (about 3 hr) compared to unfrozen controls. The number of frozen embryos which developed to the blastocyst stage was reduced compared to controls, and in the case of S-phase embryos, formation of the blastocyst cavity was also delayed. However, the average number of cells in the experimental and control embryos was similar. No increased incidence of chromosome abnormalities was seen. Our results suggest that freezing embryos in G2 is superior to freezing in S phase. 
The cosmetic effects of submucous resection. A prospective assessment of the complications of submucous resection is presented. Preoperative photographs were taken and a post-operative assessment was carried out at a minimum time of 2 years by questionnaire and photographs. No examples of significant cosmetic changes were found. 
Benign intrinsic tectal "tumors" in children. A specific group of intrinsic dorsal midbrain tumors was identified in six children by computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Each patient presented with raised intracranial pressure as a result of hydrocephalus due to obstruction of the sylvian aqueduct. No patient had brain-stem signs referable to the tectal tumor initially or subsequently. All six children underwent cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversionary procedures. The radiological features were consistent and specific, with all patients showing tectal calcification or primary increased attenuation of the tectal plate on CT scans. In addition, lack of contrast enhancement was noted initially in four patients and eventually in all six patients. In all patients MR imaging showed a focal tectal tumor distorting the collicular plate with no cystic component and increased signal intensity on T2-weighted images. There has been no evidence of progression in these six patients in the follow-up period ranging from 8 months to 17 years (8 months and 2 1/2, 4 1/2, 8, and 17 years). Diversion of CSF has been the only surgical treatment and no patient underwent deep x-ray therapy. Five patients have had normal intellectual development. In contrast to the majority of previously described periaqueductal and tectal tumors, this group of lesions appeared to be truly benign. The authors suggest that patients presenting with these clinical and radiological features may be managed by CSF diversion, serial examination, and MR imaging. 
Laser midline glossectomy as a treatment for obstructive sleep apnea. Multiple site specific procedures have been proposed to treat obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Midline glossectomy (MLG) is a procedure that directly enlarges the hypopharyngeal airspace using the carbon dioxide laser. The initial experience of 12 patients is presented. Midline glossectomy as the sole procedure was performed on 11 patients who had failed uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) and who were felt to have significant hypopharyngeal collapse on physical examination and Muller's maneuver. One patient with primary hypopharyngeal narrowing underwent MLG. Five (42%) were considered responders with Respiratory Disturbance Index (RDI) decreasing from 60.6 per hour to 14.5 per hour. In seven nonresponders, there was no significant change in the RDI (62.6 events per hour to 48.4 events per hour). Cephalometric analysis showed that responders tended to be more retrognathic (sella-nasion-supramentale (S-N-B = 74.4 degrees)) than nonresponders (S-N-B = 79.3 degrees). Responders were significantly less obese (body mass index (BMI = 30.6)) than nonresponders (BMI = 37.9). There were five minor complications including minor bleeding (n = 3), prolonged odynophagia (n = 1), and minor change in taste (n = 1). There were no major complications, and no persistent difficulties with speech or swallowing. These results demonstrate that direct surgical modification of the tongue base and associated structures can significantly impact obstructive apnea. Midline glossectomy or similar procedures may be useful in a subset of patients with OSAS. 
Clonality and clonal evolution of hepatocellular carcinoma with multiple nodules. To determine the clonal evolution of hepatocellular carcinoma, the integrated hepatitis B virus DNA patterns of the main tumor, satellites and/or metastatic lesions were analyzed by Southern-blot hybridization in 28 hepatocellular carcinomas, including three HBsAg-seronegative cases. Unicentric or multicentric hepatocellular carcinoma was confirmed by histopathological criteria in 89% of the cases. Among 17 unicentric hepatocellular carcinomas, minor changes of the integration pattern--including partial loss or addition of the integration sites or both--were detected in the metastatic lesions in 29% of the cases. Furthermore, none of five cases with free-form hepatitis B virus DNA in the primary tumor had detectable free hepatitis B virus DNA in the metastatic lesions. These results suggest that the alteration of integrated hepatitis B virus DNA pattern during the course of tumor growth and metastasis may occur more often than previously perceived and that the switch-off of virus replication may be related to tumor metastatic potential. In eight cases with unilateral, multicentric hepatocellular carcinoma, two clones were detected in six cases, three were seen in another and four were seen in one. One case of note was a 9-yr-old boy with two histological types and two different integration patterns, one associated with vascular invasion and lung metastasis. Three patients with bilateral hepatocellular carcinoma were confirmed to have bicentric or tricentric hepatocellular carcinoma rather than intrahepatic dissemination and had survival rates similar to those in unicentric hepatocellular carcinoma. Three invasive HBsAg-seronegative hepatocellular carcinomas were found to have hepatitis B virus DNA integration and were of unicentric origin. 
Electroencephalographic correlations of extracranial and epidural electrodes in temporal lobe epilepsy. Thirty patients with medically intractable complex partial seizures of temporal lobe origin, but no structural abnormalities on neuroradiologic investigations, had both extracranial (scalp) and epidural EEG recordings. Fifteen patients (50%) had localized, unilateral, ictal, scalp EEGs, but one of these had bilateral independent temporal seizure onset according to epidural recordings. Of the 15 patients in whom scalp EEGs were non-localizing, 12 had well-localized epidural ictal EEGs, and 3 had multifocal or bilateral independent temporal ictal recordings. Epidural recordings provide information for determination of site of onset of temporal lobe seizures in selected patients. 
Acute hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors induced by interleukin-1 alpha: effects independent of tumor necrosis factor. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a protein synthesized in response to the endotoxin bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), is the classical mediator of acute hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors. We have demonstrated that interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), with a spectrum of activities very similar to those of TNF, also causes acute hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors. Both TNF and IL-1 induce a cascade of events including the synthesis or release of each other. The present studies were thus undertaken to determine whether the hemorrhagic necrosis induced in tumors by IL-1 alpha is due to TNF. Kinetic parameters of IL-1 alpha-induced hemorrhage were similar to those observed with recombinant murine TNF-alpha (TNF-alpha) or LPS in RIF-1 fibrosarcomas in C3H/HeN (endotoxin-sensitive) mice. However, the amount of TNF found in the sera or tumors of animals treated with LPS was more than 20-fold higher than in mice treated with IL-1 alpha, and LPS induced similar degrees of hemorrhagic necrosis, which was measured by determining the packed volume of red blood cells by 59Fe labeling. A low but significantly hemorrhagic dose of IL-1 alpha induced no detectable TNF in tumors. Pretreatment with 250 micrograms of neutralizing antibody to TNF had no effect on IL-1 alpha-induced hemorrhage, whereas TNF-alpha- and LPS-induced hemorrhagic effects were significantly reduced. These results demonstrate an important antitumor activity of IL-1 alpha that appears to be independent of TNF. 
Detection of pancreatic fluid and urine leakage after pancreas transplantation: value of CT and cystography. Leakage from the urinary bladder or duodenal stump after pancreas transplantation with urinary bladder drainage of the graft is difficult to diagnose clinically. We retrospectively reviewed our experience with fluoroscopic cystography and CT to determine their relative merit in the diagnosis of pancreatic fluid and urine leakage as documented by surgical exploration in pancreas transplant recipients. Thirteen leaks were diagnosed by fluoroscopic cystography or by CT in 11 patients after pancreas transplantation with urinary bladder drainage of pancreatic fluid. Conventional retrograde fluoroscopic cystography showed 11 leaks; CT with retrograde bladder opacification showed three leaks. Of the five CT studies that did not show a leak and that also were done within 7 days of a cystogram with abnormal findings, failure to use retrograde bladder opacification accounted for the majority (three cases) of missed diagnoses. Focal or free peritoneal abdominal fluid was seen in all CT examinations, with extravasation of contrast material seen into both walled-off collections and free ascites. Our experience suggests that retrograde bladder and duodenal stump opacification should be a routine part of the CT evaluation performed to detect leakage from the urinary bladder or duodenal stump after pancreas transplantation. 
Breast cancer in men: aspects of familial aggregation. Familial aggregation of breast cancer in males was investigated in a population-based case-control study. Cases were ascertained from 10 Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program registries in the United States between 1983 and 1986. Controls were identified by random-digit dialing and from lists of Medicare recipients. The relative odds of developing breast cancer were similar in men with affected paternal and maternal relatives and in men with affected mothers and sisters. The risk increased with the number of affected relatives. The relative odds of developing breast cancer were greater in men with first-degree relatives who developed their mammary neoplasm before the age of 45 than in men with older first-degree affected relatives; the enhancement of risk in men with an affected sister was greater in those under age 60 than in older men. These results are similar to those observed by others in studies of breast cancer in women. 
Mitral valve repair: a valuable procedure with good long term results even when performed infrequently. OBJECTIVE--To assess the results of mitral valve repair in a series with a low frequency of repair despite a policy to conserve the valve whenever possible. DESIGN--Retrospective review of case notes with clinical and echocardiographic examination of survivors. SETTING--Cardiac surgery unit in a university teaching hospital. PATIENTS--62 consecutive patients undergoing mitral valve repair by one surgeon between 1979 and 1989. INTERVENTIONS--Mitral valve repair according to the criteria and techniques of Carpentier. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Frequency of repair, operative mortality, actuarial survival, freedom from reoperation and thromboembolism, clinical state, and echocardiographic state. RESULTS--The 62 patients, median age 58 years (interquartile range 51 to 64 years), represent 14% (70% confidence interval 12% to 15%) of the 454 mitral valve operations performed in the study period. Operative mortality was 8% (70% CI 5% to 13%). Actuarial survival was 62% (70% CI 43% to 81%) at nine years. At nine years actuarial freedom from reoperation was 91% (70% CI 79% to 102%) and freedom from thromboembolism 91% (70% CI 80% to 102%). At a median follow up of 33 months (interquartile range 21 to 74 months), 38 of 46 survivors had improved functional state. Of 21 patients who underwent echocardiography one had severe mitral regurgitation and one mitral stenosis. CONCLUSION--Although compared with other reports of mitral valve repair the prevalence of repair was low in this series the results are comparable and justify a positive approach to repair in all patients undergoing mitral valve surgery even if this can only be achieved in a small proportion of patients. 
A combination trial of human lymphoblastoid interferon and bestrabucil (KM2210) for adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma. Both human lymphoblastoid interferon (HLBI) and bestrabucil, the conjugate of chlorambucil and beta-estradiol, have antitumor activity against adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma (ATLL). Because an in vitro study showed that these two agents combined had a synergistic antiproliferative effect on MOLT-4 and WI-38VA13 cell lines, the authors evaluated the clinical efficacy of this combination in a pilot study with a poor-risk group of ATLL patients. The patients were treated daily with 6 x 10(6) IU of HLBI subcutaneously and 100 mg of bestrabucil orally. In patients with lymphoma-type ATLL or hypercalcemia, prednisolone also was given daily. Of 12 patients suitable for evaluation, nine had partial responses, one had a minor response, and two had no response. All five patients with skin infiltration and both patients with hypercalcemia responded. A history of prior chemotherapy did not affect the response rate. The time to clinical response was 3 to 16 days (median, 11 days) after initiation of treatment. The response duration was 4 to 108+ weeks (median, 9 weeks), but all patients except one relapsed, even during continuing treatment. No serious side effects were observed. Although the response rate with this combination treatment was high, the response duration was short, and other treatments would have to be added to achieve control of this aggressive disease. 
Fatal tonsillar herniation in pseudotumor cerebri. A 27-year-old woman with pseudotumor cerebri died after lumbar puncture secondary to tonsillar herniation. Five years earlier she had a respiratory arrest after lumbar puncture. MRI and autopsy ruled out the presence of an Arnold-Chiari malformation or a mass lesion of the posterior fossa, but midsagittal views suggested the presence of low-lying cerebellar tonsils. 
Liesegang rings developing within intraperitoneal endometriotic implants. A case report. Liesegang rings are acellular, laminated structures that have been reported to accompany a variety of necrotizing and hemorrhagic tissue processes. Although most frequently seen in the kidneys and synovium, they can be present in other tissues. Liesegang rings are of importance because they are frequently confused by pathologists with helminth ova and nematodes, which they resemble. A case of Liesegang rings was associated with intraperitoneal endometriotic implants, with which the rings appeared to have originated. 
Composition of atherosclerotic plaques in coronary arteries in women less than 40 years of age with fatal coronary artery disease and implications for plaque reversibility. This study analyzes the composition of atherosclerotic plaques in the 4 major epicardial coronary arteries in 8 women less than 40 years of age (mean 34) with fatal coronary artery disease (CAD) and compares these data to previous studies of 37 adults greater than 45 years of age (mean 59) with fatal CAD. Histologic sections were taken at 5-mm intervals from the entire lengths of the right, left main, left anterior descending and left circumflex coronary arteries. With the use of a computerized morphometry system, analysis of the 4 major epicardial coronary arteries showed the major component of plaque to be a combination of cellular (mean percent total plaque area = 65%, standard error = 6%) and dense (19%, standard error = 6%) fibrous tissue. Arterial segments narrowed greater than 75% in cross-sectional area from these young women were compared with similarly narrowed arteries from 37 older patients (32 men [86%]) with fatal CAD previously reported by this laboratory, and showed significantly more cellular fibrous tissue and lipid-rich foam cells, and lesser amounts of dense fibrous and heavily calcified tissue. The large amount of lipid-containing foam cells and relative lack of acellular scar tissue in coronary plaques in these young women suggests a greater potential for reversibility of these plaques in this subset of patients with CAD. 
Surgical treatment for a case of postoperative Pseudallescheria boydii endophthalmitis. Pseudallescheria boydii (P. boydii) is an uncommon ocular pathogen which previously has been identified in only 10 of 905 fungal isolates identified by the Sid Richardson Microbiology Laboratory at the Cullen Eye Institute of Baylor College of Medicine. Furthermore, only one case of postoperative P. boydii endophthalmitis and four cases of endogenous P. boydii endophthalmitis have been reported. Three of the four patients with endogenous endophthalmitis died within 4 weeks of diagnosis. We describe a second case of postoperative endophthalmitis due to this fungus. The infection was successfully eradicated following vitrectomy, corneoscleral resection, and patch graft, in addition to intraocular, topical, and oral antifungal medication. Although in vitro sensitivities are variable, P. boydii is known to be relatively resistant to amphotericin B. This points to the importance of proper cultures and sensitivities when treating cases of suspected fungal endophthalmitis. Unfortunately, the patient's eye became phthisical 6 months following the initial intervention. 
Antibiotic treatment of tuboovarian abscess: comparison of broad-spectrum beta-lactam agents versus clindamycin-containing regimens. One hundred nineteen patients with tuboovarian abscess were evaluated for response to antibiotics. Results were stratified into three groups by antimicrobial regimen. Group 1 consisted of 37 patients treated with a single-agent broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic and oral doxycycline. Initial clinical response (defined as decreased pain, diminished white blood cell count, or defervescence) in group 1 was 31/37 (84%). Group 2 consisted of 64 patients treated with clindamycin in combination with an aminoglycoside with or without a penicillin. There was an initial clinical response in 45 of 64 (70%). Group 3 consisted of 18 patients from group 1 who were changed to a clindamycin-containing regimen after 2 to 3 days of initial treatment with a single-agent broad-spectrum antibiotic. The decision to switch antibiotics was not based on treatment failure but occurred when delayed ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis of tuboovarian abscess. The switch reflected physician preference for clindamycin-containing regimens in the treatment of tuboovarian abscesses. The response rate in this subset of patients was 14 of 18 (78%). Overall initial clinical response rate was 90 of 119 (75%). There were no statistically significant demographic or clinical differences among the three groups. There was no statistical difference in the rate of early and late antibiotic failure rates among the groups. Our study demonstrates that extended-spectrum antibiotic coverage, including single-agent broad-spectrum antibiotics such as cefoxitin, in conjunction with doxycycline has efficacy that is equivalent to that of clindamycin-containing regimens. An overall medical treatment success rate of 75% suggests that conservative treatment of tuboovarian abscesses is warranted. 
Hemodynamic response with passive neck flexion in brain death. Twelve brain-dead patients admitted to the Department of Traumatology, Osaka University Hospital, from July 1988 to August 1989 were studied. A hemodynamic response elicited by passive neck flexion was observed in 10 of the 12 patients. After passive neck flexion, blood pressure began to rise, and the heart rate increased slightly. Blood pressure peaked about 2 minutes after the initiation of neck flexion and then decreased gradually to the baseline level within a few minutes. These responses were suppressed completely by administration of the ganglion blocker trimethaphan camsilate, which suggests that the efferent pathway of the response is mediated by the sympathetic nervous system. 
Extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber lens implantation in Fuch's heterochromic cyclitis. Twenty-two patients with Fuch's heterochromic cyclitis had a posterior chamber intraocular lens implanted after extracapsular cataract extraction. After a mean follow-up period of 2.5 years (range, 6 to 70 months) half the patients had a visual acuity of 1.0 or more. The results compare favourably with those in the general population. 
The effect of hyperventilation in cluster headache patients. The effect of voluntary hyperventilation was assessed in 22 cluster headache patients (8 in a cluster period and 14 in a remission) and 19 healthy individuals. Using an ear oximeter and a capnograph with a nasal probe, the oxygen saturation (SaO2) and the end-tidal CO2 were monitored continuously. During the hyperventilation per se, cluster headache patients and controls showed absolute values of end-tidal CO2 and of SaO2 of the same order of magnitude. In the posthyperventilation phase, however, the average of the lowest SaO2 levels was lower in controls than in cluster headache patients. In the posthyperventilation phase, headache patients outside the cluster period showed a trend more similar to that of the controls with respect to SaO2 than did those inside the cluster period. The observed discrepancy might, if reproducible, be a consequence of an altered chemoreceptor sensitivity in cluster headache patients during the bout. 
Changes in portal blood flow consequent to partial hepatectomy: Doppler estimation. Hemodynamic changes in portal blood flow were investigated in 56 patients with hepatic tumors who underwent partial hepatectomy. Portal flow was measured with a Doppler ultrasound system before, during, and after surgery. The portal flow of patients who underwent massive hepatectomy decreased intraoperatively. The portal flow per unit of cardiac output decreased in patients who underwent massive or major hepatectomy, patients with a cirrhotic liver, and patients who had a satisfactory postoperative course. Postoperatively, the portal flow in patients with a poor clinical outcome (multiple organ failure, hepatic failure, and cardiorespiratory failure) decreased significantly. Monitoring portal hemodynamic values appears to be useful in providing an index of "hepatic functional reserve." Adequate portal flow is essential for postoperative hepatic regeneration; changes in portal hemodynamic values may be directly related to the patient's ability to survive surgery and to regain or maintain normal liver function. 
Bedside diagnostic blood testing. Its accuracy, rapidity, and utility in blood conservation. OBJECTIVE.--Bedside diagnostic testing utilizing microchemistry instruments potentially offers physicians the opportunity to evaluate urgent blood test results rapidly and reliably using only drops (250 microL) of whole blood. The use of microchemistry technology may also represent an essential component of a blood conservation program in acutely ill patients. We tested the hypothesis that a microchemistry instrument would have important advantages in the intensive care unit, including rapid turnaround time, decreased iatrogenic blood loss, and the provision of accurate analyte results. DESIGN.--One-year prospective, random-sample comparative study. SETTING.--A tertiary, acute care, 1000-bed university teaching hospital and a 450-bed university-affiliated community hospital. PATIENTS.--Blood samples from 850 patients were analyzed. RESULTS.--There were strong correlations (for pH, R2 = .97; PCO2, R2 = .97; PO2, R2 = .99; sodium, R2 = .83; potassium, R2 = .94; chloride, R2 = .90; glucose, R2 = .98; and hematocrit, R2 = .92) when paired samples were analyzed simultaneously in the laboratory comparing the microchemistry instrument and currently accepted clinical laboratory instruments. There were significant correlations (for pH, R2 = .91; PCO2, R2 = .94; PO2, R2 = .97; sodium, R2 = .91; potassium, R2 = .86; chloride, R2 = .91; ionized calcium, R2 = .82; glucose, R2 = .96; and hematocrit, R2 = .75) but increased variability occurred in some analyte results when samples were first analyzed in the intensive care unit (using the microchemistry instrument) and then transported to the laboratory in the routine fashion for "stat" determinations. CONCLUSIONS.--The multichannel microchemistry instrument provided accurate analyte determinations when compared with accepted clinical laboratory instruments. Significant savings of time and blood were also realized by the use of a microchemistry instrument in the intensive care unit. Bedside microchemistry may provide clinically important advantages in emergency departments, operating rooms, and neonatal, pediatric, coronary, adult medical and surgical, trauma, and burn intensive care units. 
Carcinoembryonic antigen levels in peritoneal washings can predict peritoneal recurrence after curative resection of gastric cancer. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels were determined in the peritoneal washings from 120 patients with gastric cancer and 9 patients with benign diseases. Elevated values (greater than 100 ng/g of protein) were observed in 20 of 25 patients with gastric cancer with visible dissemination and 16 of 25 patients with serosal invasion but no dissemination. The same elevation was found in only 9 of 70 patients with no serosal invasion and none of the patients with benign disease. The 2-year survival rates after curative operation for the patients with and without elevation of CEA levels were 21% (19 patients) and 100% (66 patients), respectively (P less than 0.001). A negative correlation was found between CEA levels and survival times after noncurative operation. These results indicate that the CEA level in peritoneal washings could be a sensitive detector of invisible peritoneal dissemination and a new predictor for the postoperative prognosis of gastric cancer. 
The clinical management of cirrhosis. The discipline of hepatology is being rapidly advanced by several methods of investigation, most notably those of molecular and genetic biology. The polymerase chain reaction holds very great promise in unraveling the implications of hepatic virus infections. At the present time, we have no method of reversing established cirrhosis, and those with life threatening impairment of liver function can only look to liver transplants for salvage. The clinician can therefore best serve by identifying liver disease before cirrhosis and its complications occur. With effective case finding, and the continued development of therapeutic interventions directed toward known or suspected etiologic and pathogenic factors, many productive, high-quality years can be added to the lifespans of many patients. 
Ossified mucin-secreting choroid plexus adenoma: case report. This is the first report of a fully documented case of an ossified mucin-producing benign choroid plexus tumor. This was a chance finding in a man who complained only of posttraumatic low back discomfort. The ossification of the tumor appears to have been therapeutic. Mucin production may be a defense mechanism. 
Iodine 131-labeled metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy and biochemical analyses in suspected pheochromocytoma. Detection of abnormal catecholamine levels and localization of tumor mass are important factors in the diagnosis and treatment of pheochromocytoma. Iodine 131-labeled metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy was performed in 64 patients with suspected pheochromocytoma if their urinary catecholamine levels were borderline or elevated, or if the clinical suspicion for pheochromocytoma was high in spite of normal urinary catecholamine determinations. The 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scans were evaluated for abnormal localization of tracer. Twenty-four-hour urine collections were analyzed for vanillylmandelic acid, homovanillic acid, dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. Thirty of the 64 patients had pheochromocytomas. The 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scan had a sensitivity and a specificity of 88%. The 24-hour urine vanillylmandelic acid and norepinephrine measurements had the best sensitivity (97%), while the vanillylmandelic acid and homovanillic acid measurements had the best specificity (91%). In patients in whom the vanillylmandelic acid measurement and the 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scan were normal, no pheochromocytomas were found. In patients in whom the vanillylmandelic acid measurement and 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scan were abnormal, a pheochromocytoma was always present. The 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scan often documents the presence or absence of a pheochromocytoma and provides localization of the tumor in the preoperative evaluation of these patients. 
Propranolol in prevention of recurrent bleeding from severe portal hypertensive gastropathy in cirrhosis. The two main causes of gastrointestinal bleeding in cirrhosis are oesophageal varices and portal hypertensive gastropathy (PHG). Rebleeding from varices can be prevented by beta-blockers, but it is not clear whether these drugs effectively reduce rebleeding from PHG. 54 cirrhotic patients with acute or chronic bleeding from severe PHG took part in a randomised, controlled trial to investigate the efficacy of propranolol in prevention of rebleeding from PHG. 26 patients were randomised to receive propranolol daily at a dose that reduced the resting heart rate by 25% or to 55 bpm (20-160 mg twice daily), throughout mean follow-up of 21 (SD 11) months. 28 untreated controls were followed-up, with the same examinations, for 18 (13) months. The actuarial percentages of patients free of rebleeding from PHG were significantly higher in the propranolol-treated patients than in the untreated controls at 12 months (65% vs 38%; p less than 0.05) and at 30 months of follow-up (52% vs 7%; p less than 0.05). Propranolol-treated patients had fewer episodes of acute bleeding than controls (0.010 [0.004] vs 0.120 [0.040] per patient per month). Multivariate analysis showed that absence of propranolol treatment was the only predictive variable for rebleeding. Actuarial survival was slightly higher in the propranolol group than in the controls, but the difference was not significant. Thus, long-term propranolol treatment significantly reduces the frequency of rebleeding from severe PHG, and may improve the prognosis of cirrhotic patients with this disorder. 
Efficacy of pulmonary metastasectomy for recurrent soft tissue sarcoma. To evaluate surgical results of resection of second (recurrent) pulmonary metastases from adult soft tissue sarcoma, the survival of 39 patients was analyzed retrospectively. With the exclusion of two patients (one with interval metastases between staged resections and one without histologically proved metastases), three patients were found to have unresectable disease (median survival, 7 months). A significantly (P = 0.0001) longer median survival (28 months) was found for 34 patients whose recurrent metastases were completely resected. The only other factor predicting significantly longer post-thoracotomy survival was resection of a solitary metastatic nodule (median survival, 65 months). Patients who had two or more recurrent nodules resected had a median survival of 14 months only (P = 0.01). Although trends toward longer survival were noted for other prognostic factors, none reached statistical significance. We conclude that the complete resection of a solitary second (recurrent) pulmonary metastatic nodule from adult soft tissue sarcoma predicts long-term survival. 
Effects of interferon on intrahepatic human leukocyte antigens and lymphocyte subsets in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C. We investigated the effects of interferon therapy on hepatocyte human leukocyte antigen class I and class II antigen expression and intrahepatic lymphocyte subsets in patients with chronic viral hepatitis B (n = 11) and C (n = 10). Interferon-alpha was administered intramuscularly in doses ranging from 3 to 18 million international units daily for 4 wk. Liver biopsy specimens were obtained just before and immediately after treatment, and the specimens were stained by the indirect immunoperoxidase method for evaluation of human leukocyte antigen expression and lymphocyte subsets. Before therapy, no significant difference was noted between hepatitis B and C in human leukocyte antigen class I antigen expression on hepatocytes or in the lymphocyte subsets in the intralobular and portal areas. After interferon-alpha treatment, hepatocyte expression of human leukocyte antigen class I antigens and serum beta 2-microglobulin levels were virtually unchanged in chronic viral hepatitis C patients, but both were increased in chronic viral hepatitis B patients. Human leukocyte antigen class II antigens were not expressed during treatment. The mean number of intralobular CD3+ and CD8+ cells and the mean serum ALT level decreased significantly in chronic viral hepatitis C patients (p less than 0.05) but not in chronic viral hepatitis B patients. The mean number of intralobular CD4+ cells was unaffected by interferon therapy in both groups. In all 21 patients, the changes in CD8+ cell numbers paralleled the changes in serum ALT levels. Our findings suggest that T-cell cytotoxicity may play an important role in hepatocyte damage in both chronic viral hepatitis C and chronic viral hepatitis B and that the response to interferon-alpha differs in these two types of hepatitis. 
Thymic targets for Abelson murine leukemia virus are early gamma/delta T lymphocytes. Molecular analysis has shown that the majority of Abelson murine leukemia virus (Ab-MuLV)-induced primary thymomas represent transformed gamma/delta thymocytes. Many of these thymomas are of monoclonal origin as judged by provirus integration pattern and contain rearranged genes encoding T-cell receptor (TCR) gamma and delta chains but germ-line immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes. Some of the monoclonal tumors contain multiple rearranged alleles encoding TCR gamma, delta, and beta chains. Further, one Ab-MuLV thymoma cell line contained germ-line-configuration TCR gamma- and delta-chain genes, which became rearranged after in vitro propagation. Clones of this cell line were observed to rearrange these genes after intrathymic passage. Also, some subclones of this cell line underwent rearrangement of their immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes in culture. These observations suggest that the thymic targets for Ab-MuLV transformation are early gamma/delta thymocytes, some of which continue to rearrange their TCR gamma- and delta-chain genes. 
Changing patterns in presentation and management of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in Northern Ireland, 1970-1988 The clinical features, diagnostic methods, management and survival in 16 cases of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome encountered in Northern Ireland between the years 1970 and 1988 are described. While the majority of patients in the first decade of the study period had surgical treatment, those presenting in the latter period have been managed with medical therapy in the form of H2-receptor antagonists or omeprazole. The increasing use of these agents seems to be altering the severe clinical features of this condition, reducing the indications for surgery and maintaining patients, with or without evidence of metastatic disease, in clinical remission. 
Ovarian cyst aspiration and the outcome of in vitro fertilization. This study was designed to ascertain whether any benefit would be derived from aspirating ovarian cysts identified before ovarian stimulation in patients undergoing in vitro fertilization. Thirty-seven patients who had ovarian cysts were categorized into two groups: group A (n = 14) with baseline ovarian cysts and group B (n = 23) with ovarian cysts that developed during pituitary suppression with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog. Each group was prospectively randomized into two subgroups depending on whether the ovarian cysts were aspirated or not. In group A, there was a significantly greater number of follicles and oocytes in the ovaries in which cysts were aspirated. However, there was no significant difference in the total number of follicles, oocytes retrieved and fertilized, or in the final outcome. In group B, there was no significant difference in folliculogenesis between the aspirated and nonaspirated subgroups. These observations suggest that the presence of a baseline ovarian cyst may reduce folliculogenesis but do not support routine cyst aspiration if the patient has two functional ovaries. 
Immediate effect of vagotomy on pancreatic insulin secretion. The effect of vagotomy and gastric resection on insulin secretion was examined by the glucagon stimulated C-peptide test in gastrectomy patients (n = 11) without truncal vagotomy and in total gastrectomy patients (n = 10) with truncal vagotomy. The test was performed twice in each patient: 10 minutes after the midline incision was made and then 60 to 90 minutes later when gastric resection or total gastrectomy was completed, during the reconstructive phase of the operation. Gastric resection without truncal vagotomy was followed by a higher increase (48%) in serum C-peptide concentration caused by glucagon stimulation than total gastrectomy with truncal vagotomy (13%). There was a significant (p less than 0.05) increase in the glucagon stimulated glucose-related C-peptide concentration in patients without truncal vagotomy, whereas truncal vagotomy inhibited this increase. These results suggest that truncal vagotomy will produce a reduction in stimulated insulin secretion in humans. 
Cerebral hyperemia during spontaneous cluster headaches with excessive cerebral vasoconstriction to hyperoxia. Values for local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) were measured in three dimensions utilizing xenon enhanced computerized tomography among patients during spontaneously occurring cluster headaches, during headache-free intervals and immediately after terminating attacks by inhalation of 100% oxygen. Results were compared with values measured among age-matched normal volunteers. LCBF values measured in five cluster patients while headache-free did not differ from similar measures among age-matched normal volunteers. In three patients during attacks of spontaneously occurring cluster headache, LCBF values for temporal cortex, basal ganglia and subcortical white matter were increased. Immediately after terminating attacks of cluster by 100% oxygen inhalation for five minutes, LCBF values for temporal cortex and basal ganglia became significantly decreased below normal values in five patients with spontaneously occurring cluster headache. Prompt relief of head pain by inhalation of 100% oxygen is associated with abolition of the hyperperfusion of both cortical and subcortical brain structures that occurs during spontaneously occurring cluster headaches and is followed by excessive cerebrovascular constriction. It remains to be determined whether the cerebral hyperemia occurring during cluster headaches is causally related to the head pain or is secondary to the pain itself. Rapid termination of head pain by hyperoxia associated with excessive cerebral vasoconstriction suggests that this vascular phenomenon is unique to cluster headache and offers clues to its pathogenesis. 
Lack of evidence for estrogen receptors in human and bovine parathyroid tissue. It has been hypothesized that estrogen may have a direct effect to reduce the set-point for PTH secretion which may be implicated in its hypocalcemic action. If this is so, estrogen receptors should be demonstrable within parathyroid tissue. Seven human parathyroid adenomas and five samples of normal bovine parathyroid tissue were examined using classical hormone-binding techniques. In no case was there evidence of displaceable estrogen binding of high affinity and low capacity. To exclude the presence of receptors within a small subset of the cells, five of the human adenomas were further studied by immunohistochemistry using a monoclonal antibody to the human estrogen receptor. In no case was there evidence of estrogen receptors. We conclude that the hypocalcemic action of estrogen replacement is unlikely to be mediated via a classical estrogen receptor within the parathyroid, although normal parathyroid tissue was not studied. 
Comparison of sucralfate and ranitidine in the treatment of duodenal ulcers. Ninety patients with endoscopically proven duodenal ulcers, enrolled in this prospective, single-blind study, were randomized to sucralfate, 1 g q.i.d., 0.5 hour before meals on an empty stomach or at bedtime, or ranitidine, 150 mg b.i.d., for 4-8 weeks (phase I). Patients who healed during the treatment period were invited to participate in a maintenance therapy follow-up covering 1 year (phase II), during which they were treated with sucralfate, 1 g b.i.d. (before breakfast and at bedtime) or 150 mg of ranitidine at bedtime. After 4 weeks of treatment, healing rates were 30/40 (75.0%) with sucralfate and 36/42 (85.7%) with ranitidine, and healing rates were 39/40 (97.6%) and 40/42 (95.2%) respectively, after 8 weeks of treatment. At the end of the 6th and 12th months of phase II, respectively, relapse rates were 3/33 (9.4%) and 10/32 (31.3%) in the sucralfate group and 5/33 (15.2%) and 10/29 (34.5%) in the ranitidine group. Differences between sucralfate- and ranitidine-treated groups were not significant. Both treatments were well tolerated. We conclude that sucralfate is as effective and safe as ranitidine in the short-term treatment and prevention of relapse in patients with ulcer disease. 
Aspirin in the prevention of thrombosis. More than a decade has passed since the introduction of the concept that inhibition of platelet function may be helpful in preventing the initiation of thrombus formation. Aspirin has been recognized as inhibiting normal platelet function and the mechanism has been clearly delineated. Legions of patients have been studied to answer the question of whether aspirin is efficacious in the primary prevention of acute myocardial infarction. At the present time, however, a solid, clear answer is not available and firm recommendations cannot be made. A large number of studies evaluating aspirin and other antiplatelet agents in the prevention or delay of recurrent myocardial infarction (secondary prevention) have been completed and those studies reporting a favorable beneficial effect are in the minority. In these secondary prevention studies reporting success, the doses of aspirin employed were large enough to inhibit both the cyclo-oxygenase system and thromboxane A2 production as well as the synthesis of prostacyclin. Thus, in these studies if aspirin is effective in reducing adverse cardiovascular events, its efficacy is being mediated by an unknown mechanism. If the reader of the few studies that report positive results is convinced of the benefit of aspirin, it must be emphasized that thoughtful, cautious patient selection based upon the individual's cardiovascular risk profile must be exercised. Individual variation may exist with respect to aspirin's beneficial effect. It must be absolutely recognized that aspirin or any antiplatelet agent does not in any way substitute for the removal or treatment of coexisting risk factors such as tobacco, obesity, hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and metabolic disease. In contrast to aspirin, control of the above risk factors has been established as beneficial. Aspirin is not free of undesirable side-effects; fatalities secondary to hemorrhage have been reported, and these must be known in detail and understood by both physician and patient before this agent is prescribed in the prophylactic treatment of cardiovascular disease. 
A case report of massive vulvar edema during tocolysis of preterm labor. Bilateral vulvar edema that is not associated with preeclampsia has been reported only rarely during pregnancy or the puerperium. A primiparous patient in premature labor at 34 weeks' gestation with no history of lymphatic or venous obstruction underwent combination tocolysis with intravenous ritodrine and magnesium sulfate. On the fifth day of tocolysis, edema developed in the right labium majus pudendi and gradually spread to the left labia during the ensuing 24 hours. The patient remained afebrile, normotensive, and without signs of localized infection or anasarca. A trial of triple intravenous antibiotics and local skin care proved ineffective. By the ninth hospital day, the edema and discomfort had progressed, thereby precluding vaginal examination without sedation. In spite of progressive cervical dilatation with tocolysis, cesarean delivery was performed. With no further treatment, the vulvar edema gradually resolved during the next week. 
Steroid therapy for hydrops associated with antibody-mediated congenital heart block. Evaluation of fetal bradycardia noted during a routine prenatal visit at 24 weeks' gestation in a mother without symptoms showed an antibody-mediated heart block with anti-La (SSB) antibody present. The fetus had a pericardial effusion and ascites. After maternal steroid therapy, the ascites resolved and the pericardial effusion was substantially diminished. Steroid therapy may be a helpful adjunct for treatment of a premature infant with hydrops as a result of antibody-mediated heart block. 
Oral enoximone therapy in chronic heart failure: a placebo-controlled randomized trial. The Western Enoximone Study Group. In a parallel study design, 164 patients with New York Heart Association Functional class II or III heart failure were randomized to receive either enoximone given as 50 mg three times a day, or 100 mg three times a day, or a matching placebo. All patients were receiving digitalis and/or diuretics and had left ventricular ejection fractions less than or equal to 45. Exercise tests were performed after 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment. Enoximone produced significantly greater increases in exercise time than placebo treatment at weeks 4 and 8 (p = 0.012, p = 0.029, respectively) but not after 12 weeks. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased significantly after the first dose of enoximone but not after 12 weeks of long-term therapy. Heart failure symptoms and the physicians' evaluations of cardiac status were significantly improved in both enoximone therapy groups during the first 4 weeks of evaluation when compared with evaluations of cardiac status in the placebo group. Diuretic doses were increased more frequently for patients who were receiving a placebo. Adverse events were reported with similar frequency in the placebo and 50 mg enoximone treatment groups; 100 mg enoximone resulted in a significantly greater incidence of adverse events. Mean heart rate and ventricular ectopic activity were not significantly different among the three treatment limbs. Enoximone appears to improve exercise tolerance, ventricular function, and symptoms of heart failure for 4 to 8 weeks. Heart rate, ventricular ectopic activity, and mortality rate were not increased. 
A 21-year experience with major hemorrhage after percutaneous liver biopsy Nine thousand two hundred twelve liver biopsies were performed according to a defined protocol, and data were prospectively recorded to identify risk factors for major bleeding. There were 10 fatal and 22 nonfatal hemorrhages (0.11% and 0.24%, respectively). By comparison with a control group that did not hemorrhage, malignancy, age, sex, and the number of passes were the only predictable risk factors. The risk of fatal hemorrhage in patients with malignancy is estimated to be 0.4%; for nonfatal hemorrhage, 0.57%. In patients undergoing liver biopsy for nonmalignant disease, the risks are 0.04% and 0.16%, respectively. 
Escherichia coli bacteremia in children. A review of 91 cases in 10 years. We reviewed 91 cases of pediatric Escherichia coli bacteremia during a 10-year period. Thirty one patients were afebrile; a significantly greater proportion of these patients were aged less than 1 month, had ampicillin-resistant E coli isolates, or had persistent bacteremia 24 hours after initiating antibiotic therapy. Infection was community acquired in 65 cases; associated urinary tract infection was six times more common in this setting than in nosocomially acquired infections. In 85 cases at least 1 underlying medical condition/focus of infection was identified at the time the positive blood culture was obtained, the most common were immune deficiency states (38 cases), urinary tract infection (29 cases), and lesions of the gastrointestinal tract (27 cases). Polymicrobial bacteremia occurred in five cases. Twelve patients died; significantly associated with death were hypotension requiring pressor therapy, presence of a central venous catheter, and neutropenia. 
Characterization of the mononuclear cell infiltrate and HLA-Dr expression in 19 oligodendrogliomas. We have studied frozen tissue from 19 oligodendrogliomas with a panel of antibodies to lymphocytes and their subsets, macrophages, natural killer cells, and HLA-Dr antigens. Macrophages were detected in moderate numbers in 60%-100% of tumors depending on the antibody used. T lymphocytes were fewer in number than macrophages and were present in 62% of cases. Most of the T lymphocytes were of the CD8 phenotype. CD4 lymphocytes were very few in number and present in only 18%. B cells and natural killer cells were absent from all cases. HLA-Dr antigens were expressed by macrophages in all cases but never on tumor cells. The implications of these findings are that macrophages and, to a lesser extent, CD8 lymphocytes are the predominant cells infiltrating oligodendrogliomas and that they may exert cellular immune functions. 
Rectal thiopental compared with intramuscular meperidine, promethazine, and chlorpromazine for pediatric sedation. STUDY OBJECTIVES: We studied the hypothesis that rectal thiopental is an effective agent for emergency department pediatric sedation and may have advantages over a more traditional regimen. DESIGN: Rectal thiopental 25 mg/kg was compared with the combination of meperidine 2 mg/kg, promethazine 1 mg/kg, and chlorpromazine 1 mg/kg in a prospective, randomized, double-blinded study. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Children between 18 months and 6 years of age presenting to our teaching hospital ED for laceration repair were entered after the clinical decision was made to sedate. Patients with altered sensorium, medical contraindications to sedation, or medication allergy were excluded. INTERVENTIONS: After informed consent, each patient received IM injection (drug combination or placebo) and rectal suspension (rectal thiopental or placebo) simultaneously. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Vital signs, pulse oximetry, and pediatric Glasgow Coma Scores were recorded before and every 15 minutes after sedation until discharge. Intradermal lidocaine and suturing began when the patient appeared adequately sedated, and response was numerically scored. Patients were discharged when able to stand. Twenty-nine patients 34 +/- 13 months old were studied. Fifteen patients received rectal thiopental, and 14 received the drug combination. Analysis using the Wilcoxon two-sample test revealed no differences in age, sex, weight, or wound location between groups. The time course of sedation was different for the two treatment regimens. At 15 and 30 minutes after administration, patients who received rectal thiopental were more deeply sedated than those who received the drug combination, as evidenced by significantly lower Glasgow Coma Scores (P less than .05). Accordingly, time from medication administration to suturing was 29 +/- 12 minutes in the thiopental group and 54 +/- 33 minutes (P less than .01) in the drug combination group. Patients in the thiopental group also recovered more quickly and were discharged approximately one-half hour earlier than those in the drug combination group (89 +/- 25 vs 120 +/- 44 minutes, P less than .05). No difference in response to lidocaine injection or suturing was demonstrated between the groups. Laceration repair time was comparable between the groups. There were eight sedation failures (three of 15 in thiopental group and five of 14 in drug combination group, P = NS). Vital signs remained stable, no adverse reactions occurred, and no patient had decreased oxygen saturation to less than 95%. CONCLUSION: Rectal thiopental is superior to this drug combination for pediatric sedation because it can be administered painlessly, has a more rapid onset and offset of action, and is of equal safety and efficacy at the dosage studied. 
The orthostatic tachycardia syndrome: evaluation of autonomic function and treatment with octreotide and ergot alkaloids. Orthostatic tachycardia is a poorly understood syndrome in which patients develop dizziness, diaphoresis, or palpitations upon shifting from the supine to the upright posture. The present study was performed to determine whether autonomic neuropathy might be present in these patients, and whether the abnormal hemodynamic response to standing might be the result of failure of reflex vasoconstriction. We measured autonomic function in 9 patients with idiopathic orthostatic tachycardia and 2 patients with orthostatic tachycardia and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and compared them to 33 age-matched controls. Although most patients with orthostatic tachycardia had normal vasomotor reflexes and normal surface potential amplitudes, the latency of the autonomic response, a measure of sympathetic nerve conduction velocity, was prolonged in the soles (2.44 +/- 0.08 s in patients with idiopathic orthostatic tachycardia vs. 2.12 +/- 0.04 s in controls; P less than 0.005). In 6 of 9 patients, however, the latencies were within the normal range. Autonomic surface potentials were absent in 1 diabetic patient with orthostatic tachycardia; the latency of the response in the feet was greatly prolonged (2.95 s) in the second patient. We also assessed the response of orthostatic tachycardia patients to octreotide and dihydroergotamine, which are known to have a pressor effect in patients with recognized forms of autonomic neuropathy. These agents, in combination, suppressed orthostatic tachycardia (from 116 +/- 7 to 89 +/- 6 beats/min; P less than 0.001) in patients with this syndrome. In summary, our data indicate that evidence of autonomic dysfunction is present in only a minority of patients with orthostatic tachycardia. Nevertheless, administration of the vasoconstrictor drugs dihydroergotamine and octreotide can prevent the abnormal hemodynamic response to the upright posture shown by patients with this syndrome. 
Indium-111-leukocyte imaging in acute cholecystitis. Eleven patients with suspected acute cholecystitis underwent sequential 99mTc-iminodiacetic derivative (IDA) and 111In-white blood cell (WBC) imaging to determine if 111In-WBCs accumulate within an acutely inflamed hemorrhagic gallbladder wall and, thus, could be employed as a reasonable alternative to 99mTc-IDA scintigraphy in detecting acute cholecystitis. Seven patients had surgically confirmed acute cholecystitis. Of these cases, five had a true-positive 99mTc-IDA and 111In-WBC, one an indeterminate 111In-WBC and true-positive 99mTc-IDA, and one a true-positive 111In-WBC and false-negative 99mTc-IDA scan. The remaining four patients did not have acute cholecystitis. All visualized their gallbladder within 1 hr after 99mTc-IDA administration and none had 111In-WBC gallbladder wall uptake. Both 111In-WBC and 99mTc-IDA scintigraphy accurately detected acute cholecystitis: hepatobiliary scintigraphy demonstrated a cystic duct obstruction and 111In-WBC imaging detected the inflammatory infiltrate within the gallbladder wall. The sensitivity and specificity of each was 86% and 100%, respectively. 
Variations in anatomy of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel: pitfalls in the diagnosis of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. Two processes account for most instances of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow: compression in the retroepicondylar groove, and compression by the humeroulnar aponeurotic arcade joining the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. While conventional electrodiagnostic criteria may localize an ulnar neuropathy to the elbow, separating retroepicondylar compression from humeroulnar arcade compression is more difficult. In 130 cadaver elbows, we examined the relationships between the medial epicondyle, flexor carpi ulnaris, and ulnar nerve. The humeroulnar arcade lay from 3 to 20 mm distal to the medial epicondyle, the intramuscular course of the nerve through the flexor carpi ulnaris ranged from 18 to 70 mm, and the nerve exited the flexor carpi ulnaris 28 to 69 mm distal to the medial epicondyle. In 6 specimens, dense fibrous bands bridged directly between the medial epicondyle and the olecranon proximal to the cubital tunnel proper; accessory epitrochleoanconeus muscles were present in 14 specimens: both may cause ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. Anatomical variations may contribute to the difficulty in separating causes of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. 
Chronic persistent cough and gastro-oesophageal reflux. Chronic cough persisting for two months or more that remains unexplained after extensive investigations is a common clinical problem. The purpose of this study was to determine whether such cough is associated with otherwise asymptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux. Thirteen patients with chronic persistent cough that was unexplained after a standard diagnostic assessment were identified. All were non-smokers. The mean (SE) duration of cough was 17.8 (8.0) months. Ten had never had reflux symptoms and three had had mild symptoms only after the onset of the cough. All the patients completed standardised cough diary cards for eight weeks and underwent 24 hour ambulatory oesophageal pH monitoring. A reflux episode was defined as a fall in oesophageal pH to below 4.0. Nine control subjects were matched for age, lung function, and body mass index. The patients experienced significantly more episodes of reflux per 24 hours than the controls (115.8 (SE 31.7) versus 4.7 (1.4) and longer reflux episodes (15.5 (5.8) versus 1.7 (0.5) minutes), and the oesophageal pH was below 4.0 considerably longer (84.5 (20.2) versus 3.8 (1.3) minutes). Cough occurred simultaneously with 13% (2.2%) of reflux episodes and within five minutes in another 35% (5.8%) of episodes, whereas gastro-oesophageal reflux occurred simultaneously with 78% (5.5%) of cough episodes and within five minutes in another 12% (2.3%) of episodes. It is concluded that chronic persistent cough that remains unexplained after a standard diagnostic assessment is associated with otherwise asymptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux. It is suggested that a self perpetuating mechanism may exist whereby acid reflux causes cough via a local neuronal oesophageal-tracheo-bronchial reflex, and the cough in turn amplifies reflux via increased transdiaphragmatic pressure or by inducing transient lower oesophageal sphincter relaxation. Further study of this mechanism and the role of specific antireflux treatment in chronic persistent cough is warranted. 
Peroneal nerve repair. Surgical results. Eleven patients had either repair (two) or nerve graft reconstruction (nine) of the common peroneal nerve or its superficial or deep divisions about the knee. The average follow-up period was 29.1 months. A good or excellent result was achieved in six (54.5%) patients. The results appeared best when direct nerve repair was possible or when a defect of 6 cm or less required grafting. Peroneal nerve exploration and repair or reconstruction as required seem indicated for known nerve disruption or unknown nerve continuity if there is no suggestion of continuing recovery by three to six months after the injury. 
Large-cell lymphoma presenting with hepatic sinusoidal infiltration. We describe a case of large-cell lymphoma of B-cell phenotype with clinicopathologic features resembling malignant histiocytosis. The clinical presentation was characterized by fever, anemia, thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy, and elevated liver enzyme levels. These features and the finding of a predominantly sinusoidal infiltrate of neoplastic cells on liver biopsy raised the suspicion of malignant histiocytosis. The patient subsequently developed supraclavicular lymphadenopathy, which proved to be due to a diffuse large-cell lymphoma. Immunophenotypic studies performed on the lymph node and the original liver biopsy specimen established the B-cell nature of neoplastic cells at both sites. This case highlights a rare pattern of hepatic involvement by large-cell lymphoma, and contrasts the latter with other hematologic disorders associated with hepatic sinusoidal infiltrates. 
Anetodermic prurigo nodularis (with Pautrier's neuroma) responsive to arotinoid acid. A woman had symmetrically distributed pruritic nodules for more than 40 years. Microscopically they were characterized by proliferation of nonmyelinated nerve fibers (Pautrier's neuroma) and a total absence of epidermal involvement. Anetoderma developed at the site of former nodules. Her condition responded favorably to repeated retinoid therapy with regression of nodules in those sites in which retinoid dermatitis had developed. 
Clear cell sarcoma of the kidney: CT, sonographic, and pathologic correlation. The sonographic and computed tomographic findings in 12 children aged 1-6 years with clear cell sarcoma of the kidney were reviewed retrospectively. Tumor size, calcification, and internal architecture were characterized and correlated with the gross pathologic findings. All tumors were unilateral and large (8.5-16 cm in diameter). Except for one, all masses were predominantly solid, and all contained some well-defined portions of low attenuation or hypoechogenicity that represented tumor necrosis. In addition, seven tumors contained uncomplicated fluid-filled cysts with diameters ranging from a few millimeters to 5 cm. Extension into the inferior vena cava was not noted. The radiologic features of clear cell sarcoma of the kidney are common to all malignant renal neoplasms. Some cases, however, may have features that simulate those of benign conditions, such as multilocular cystic nephroma or segmental cystic dysplasia. No pattern was discerned that would permit discrimination between clear cell sarcoma of the kidney and the most common renal neoplasm of childhood, Wilms tumor. 
Flow velocity waveforms of the fetal circulation preceding fetal death in a case of lupus anticoagulant. Flow velocity waveforms of the vascular system were evaluated at 25 weeks 2 days and 27 weeks 5 days of gestation in the case of a severely growth-retarded fetus. At the first scan, the cerebral vessels displayed low pulsatility indexes, reflecting the brain-sparing pattern that characterizes fetal stress. This compensatory reduction was lost at the time of the second, "preterminal" scan. 
Adenocarcinoma of rete testis. Role of inguinal orchiectomy plus retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. Adenocarcinoma of the rete testis is diagnosed rarely. We describe the clinical and pathologic findings in a forty-seven-year-old man with this unusual tumor. Treatment modalities are reviewed emphasizing the role of radical orchiectomy and retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. 
The clinical spectrum of renal osteodystrophy in 57 chronic hemodialysis patients: a correlation between biochemical parameters and bone pathology findings. Fifty-nine chronic hemodialysis patients who had been on dialysis for an average of 77 months underwent bone biopsies and the pathologic findings were correlated with biochemical and demographic data. All but two had evidence of renal osteodystrophy, 23 with osteitis fibrosa (OF), 19 with osteomalacia and/or adynamic disease (OM/AD), and 15 with mixed osteodystrophy (MOD). Patients in each group were similar with regard to age, sex distribution, duration of dialysis, unstimulated serum aluminum, calcium and phosphorus. Patients with osteitis fibrosa (OF) had statistically higher DFO stimulated aluminum, alkaline phosphatase and PTHC levels than the other two groups although there was marked individual variation. The bone biopsies were also evaluated for the amount of aluminum deposited in the osteoid seam. All 23 of the patients with OF and 11 of the 15 patients with MOD had no, mild, or minimal aluminum deposition but 12 of the 19 patients with OM/AD had moderate to marked aluminum deposition. Patients with minimal to mild aluminum deposition were similar in age, duration of dialysis, sex distribution, unstimulated and DFO stimulated aluminum levels, calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase to those with moderate to marked deposition but had significantly higher parathormone levels. All patients had been treated in a similar fashion regarding diet, oral phosphate binders and vitamin D; therefore, the observed differences in bone pathology were not readily explicable. However, patients who were found to have osteitis fibrosa and those with minimal to mild aluminum deposition had significantly higher parathormone levels when compared with patients in the other groups at the inception of dialysis. 
Asthma deaths. Deaths from asthma seem to be increasing in spite of considerable improvements in drug treatment and management plans. There are many hypotheses to explain this, but little emphasis has been placed on the possibility that confidence in better drug treatments may modify patients' behavior so as to place them at greater risk of illness. It is well recognized that excessive confidence in bronchodilator inhalers and nebulizers can make patients stay away from hospitals too long during acute attacks. It is also very possible that prevention of symptoms by use of antiasthma drugs could allow patients to spend more time in environments containing antigens or other agents that provoke asthma, resulting in more serious and long-lasting bronchial inflammation and reactivity. 
Longitudinal study of cerebral spinal fluid drainage in polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase in paraplegia associated with thoracic aortic cross-clamping. It has been hoped that pharmacologic prophylaxis in thoracic aortic cross-clamping may avert the unpredictable complication of spinal cord paraplegia, may avoid the mechanical difficulties associated with shunts, partial bypass, or monitoring devices, and may serve as a substitute for or as an adjunct to cerebral spinal fluid drainage. Toward this end 21 mongrel dogs were studied in four groups and underwent 60 minutes of thoracic aortic cross-clamping: group I, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping; group II, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping and cerebral spinal fluid drainage; group III, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping, cerebrospinal fluid drainage and intravenous administration of a single dose (5000 units/kg) of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD) given 15 to 20 minutes before thoracic aortic cross-clamping; and group IV, six with thoracic aortic cross-clamping and PEG-SOD. Paraplegia was graded by the Tarlov method at 24 hours and up to 5 days after thoracic aortic cross-clamping. The carotid and femoral artery pressures, the central venous pressure, and core temperature, taken during the experiment and at the time the dogs were killed, were found to be similar between groups. At 24 hours all dogs in group I were paraplegic; groups II and III had no paraplegic dogs (p less than 0.01), and group IV had fewer paraplegic dogs (two of six) than group I (p less than 0.05). Paraplegia was averted in all dogs treated with cerebral spinal fluid drainage, even 5 days after thoracic aortic cross-clamping. 
The importance of surface immunoglobulin, mouse rosettes, and CD5 in the immunophenotyping of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and reactive lymphocytosis. Peripheral blood from 167 B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and 119 reactive lymphocytosis (RLC) patients were analyzed to evaluate the immunophenotypic diagnostic value of mouse rosettes (M-rosette), and weak expression of monoclonal surface immunoglobulin (SIg). In B-CLL, 145 cases were M-rosette+ (86.83%), 135 surface immunoglobulin (SIg)+ (80.84%), and 117 M-rosette+ SIg+ (70.06%). Of 32 SIg- cases, 28 were M-rosette+; and of 22 M-rosette-cases, 18 were SIg+. By combining results of the two assays and accepting positivity of either one or both as sufficient for diagnosis, B-CLL was diagnosed in 163 cases (97.60%). CD5 was performed in 49 cases of the 167 with paired data for SIg and M-rosettes. By combining the results of the three assays and accepting positivity of any two or all three as sufficient for diagnosis, all 49 cases (100%) were diagnosed. Correlation analysis showed no significant association between M-rosette, SIg, and CD5 expression. The results demonstrate the independent expression of the three markers, and their complementary role in immunophenotyping B-CLL. In RLC, all 119 cases were T-lineage and SIg-, and 115 were M-rosette-, indicating the role of the two markers in differentiating B-CLL from RLC. Three of the four M-rosette+ T-RLC were subsequently diagnosed as B-CLL, suggesting the necessity of follow-up of such cases. 
Mucinous pancreatic tumors: ERCP findings Mucin-producing tumors of the pancreas are rare and difficult to diagnose neoplasms. To further characterize the nature of these lesions, four such cases are described here in which the diagnosis was suspected at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography by the presence of ampullary or intraductal mucus. In one patient, pancreatoscopy directly visualized the tumor. Ultrasound and computed tomography failed to suggest the presence of a neoplasm in the majority of these cases, but endoscopic ultrasound was performed in one and correctly identified the multi-cystic tumor. A high incidence of acute pancreatitis was seen in these cases and was felt to be secondary to intermittent ductal obstruction by mucus. The characteristic appearance of intra-ductal mucus provides an important clue to the presence of this type of pancreatic neoplasia. 
Cerebral hemorrhagic risk of aspirin or heparin therapy with thrombolytic treatment in rabbits. We studied the incidence of cerebral hemorrhage in an animal model of embolic stroke to determine the safety of aspirin, heparin, and tissue plasminogen activator therapies. We occluded the middle cerebral arteries of rabbits with labeled blood clots and administered either tissue plasminogen activator, heparin, aspirin, tissue plasminogen activator plus aspirin, tissue plasminogen activator plus heparin, or saline at various times after stroke. Compared to saline controls, both the aspirin-only and the tissue plasminogen activator-plus-aspirin groups had a significantly higher incidence of cerebral hemorrhage, whereas the heparin and tissue plasminogen activator combination groups did not. We conclude that aspirin antiplatelet therapy alone may increase the risk of hemorrhagic infarction, whereas heparin or tissue plasminogen activator therapy appears to be relatively safe. 
Evaluation of the patient with stable angina following coronary artery bypass surgery. Bypass graft stenosis and occlusion are relatively common events, occurring eventually in the majority of patients who survive beyond 5 years after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. These processes, in combination with progressive native coronary artery disease, lead to recurrent angina and an increased need for medication in most patients late after surgery. Patients with unstable ischemic symptoms generally should proceed directly to coronary arteriography, whereas patients with stable angina may be candidates for noninvasive testing to evaluate their risk and the extent of myocardial jeopardy. If the initial revascularization procedure is successful, preoperative thallium 201 imaging abnormalities should be reversed. Persistent abnormalities beyond 6 months after revascularization indicate incomplete revascularization or perioperative infarction. Defects noted in the immediate postoperative period may be areas of myocardial stunning or hibernation, which can require up to 6 months to reverse. If chest pain recurs after revascularization, a normal thallium 201 perfusion pattern indicates that the symptom is probably not ischemic in nature. Thallium 201 perfusion abnormalities may precede symptoms by several months and may be the only indication of significant myocardial ischemia in patients with silent ischemia. Advanced tomographic imaging techniques, such as single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), should theoretically improve disease detection and localization following revascularization. Practically speaking, only the left anterior descending coronary bed is well evaluated by these tomographic imaging techniques. The sensitivity and specificity of SPECT imaging for evaluation of posterior circulation abnormalities remains unacceptably low. Complexities of competitive flow and collateralization that may exist in the postoperative period make it difficult to relate perfusion abnormalities to a specific graft stenosis. However, tomographic perfusion imaging may provide useful correlative information on the functional impact of bypass graft stenoses in patients with recurrent angina who have undergone coronary angiography and in whom the angiographic indications for repeat surgery or angioplasty are not compelling. Newer tomographic and metabolic imaging techniques such as CT, NMRI, and PET remain unproven as diagnostic tests for the evaluation of unselected patient populations presenting with recurrent angina following revascularization surgery. 
Brain tumors occurring before 1 year of age: a retrospective reviews of 22 cases in an 11-year period (1977-1987). Congenital brain tumors have been reported infrequently and their management remains ill defined. An 11-year review (1977-1987) of all children with brain tumors with the onset of symptoms before 1 year of age was completed. Twenty-two children with the following histological diagnoses were treated: astrocytoma (7 patients), primitive neuroectodermal tumor (6 patients), papilloma or carcinoma of the choroid plexus (3 patients), malignant teratoma (2 patients), dermoid tumor (2 patients), embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (1 patient), and chloroma (1 patient). Fifteen tumors were supratentorial in location, and 7 were infratentorial. Initial symptoms were hydrocephalus (32%), focal neurological deficit (23%), asymptomatic increase in head circumference (18%), failure to thrive (14%), and seizures (4.5%). The goal of treatment was a radical excision when possible, with primary chemotherapy in the last 6 years of the review period. Radiation therapy was the adjunct to surgery in the initial 5-year period. All patients with papillomas of the choroid plexus and dermoid lesions underwent a total resection with no recurrence. All 7 astrocytomas were supratentorial, with 6 occurring in the diencephalon. Five of the seven patients with astrocytomas survived more than 5 years. The 6 primitive neuroectodermal tumors were located equally between the supra- and infratentorial spaces. Four of the 6 infants with these tumors received chemotherapy (2 received chemotherapy alone; 2 received chemotherapy and radiation therapy) and are tumor free 2 to 9 years later. A fifth child received radiation therapy alone early in the series and survived only 4 months. The family of the other child refused adjunctive treatment. 
Caring for older patients with high blood pressure. Hypertension, a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, is common in older patients. Optimal selection of antihypertensive therapy in the elderly requires consideration of the unique risks, physiology and concomitant illnesses in this age group. Since the U.S. population is aging rapidly, appropriate management of hypertension in older patients is likely to remain an important concern. 
Current role of digitalis therapy in patients with congestive heart failure. Digitalis has been used in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure for 215 years. In this article, numerous clinical studies and trials that have evaluated the efficacy of digitalis in the treatment of patients with congestive heart failure are reviewed. The data indicate that digitalis is a valuable therapeutic agent for relieving symptoms and improving exercise performance and left ventricular function in patients with congestive heart failure. Comparison of the various advantages and disadvantages of digitalis with alternative therapies in patients with congestive heart failure shows an important continuing role for digitalis therapy. 
Persistence of symptoms after gall bladder clearance with cholecystolithotripsy. Forty six patients rendered stone and fragment free with successful cholecystolithotripsy without the use of oral chemolitholysis were followed by serial ultrasound for a period of two to 25 months (mean 11 months, median 10 months). Seven patients (15%), six of whom remain asymptomatic, developed recurrent calculi. Of the 39 gall stone free patients, 26 were asymptomatic. Six patients complained of persistent abdominal pain similar to that before treatment. One of these had a bile duct stone. Seven patients complained of a variety of non-biliary symptoms. The patient with recurrent gall stones and recurrent symptoms is eligible for further lithotripsy treatment. The overall 30% incidence of persistent abdominal symptoms is similar to that reported after elective cholecystectomy. 
Relevance of common tests of cerebrospinal fluid in screening for bacterial meningitis. This study tests the hypothesis that if cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has a nucleated blood cell count (NucBC) of less than 6/mm3, CSF tests other than bacterial culture need not be performed to exclude the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis in patients not receiving antimicrobial agents. The results of tests performed on the first specimen of CSF obtained for a given hospital visit from children younger than 3 years of age, exclusive of newborn infants admitted to the hospital on their date of birth, were analyzed. Of 3356 CSF specimens evaluated, 122 were from patients with bacterial meningitis; 460 specimens were analyzed separately because the erythrocyte count was greater than 1000/mm3. A negative CSF screening test result was defined as a CSF NucBC less than 6/mm3. In facilitating the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, this screening test had a sensitivity of 98.4%, a specificity of 75.2%, and a negative predictive value of 99.9%. The other CSF tests varied widely in screening effectiveness: a Gram-stained smear had a sensitivity of 53% and a specificity of 97%. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was used to assess the screening relevance of CSF tests. The CSF NucBC and CSF segmented NucBC performed indistinguishably and superiorly compared with the CSF protein or glucose concentration and the ratio of CSF glucose to serum glucose concentration. Logistic regression analysis showed that the NucBC alone is superior to any combination of the other CSF tests. In a prospective study of 215 children younger than 3 years of age undergoing a lumbar puncture in our emergency department, 85% had empiric criteria identifying them as appropriate for an abbreviated CSF evaluation. The CSF NucBC was less than 6/mm3 in 70% of the 181 patients who would have been eligible for an abbreviated CSF evaluation. These data suggest that a strategy for the sequential testing of CSF could be adopted that would exclude unnecessary determinations and thereby save time, effort, and health care dollars. 
Influence of local recurrence on survival: a controversy reviewed from the perspective of soft tissue sarcoma. The relationship between local recurrence and survival has been examined using the example of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities. Studies that appear to indicate that local recurrence does not jeopardize survival are shown to have been inappropriately analysed, to have inadequate patient numbers, or both. A survival deficit due to local tumour recurrence cannot be excluded on present data, and clinical decisions regarding conservative versus radical surgery will therefore continue to involve an element of value judgement. 
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis associated with infantile spasms in five mentally retarded children: a morphological analysis on mesangiolysis. We report five cases of nephrotic syndrome due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) in mentally retarded children with severe infantile spasms. Four of the five children diagnosed as West syndrome, Lennox syndrome, or petit mal epilepsy also had cerebral palsy and microcephaly. The other patient had petit mal epilepsy without cerebral palsy and microcephaly. All patients first developed infantile spasms, with the time of onset ranging from 1 week to 2 years of age, and subsequently developed proteinuria, followed by the nephrotic syndrome at 3 to 14 years of age. Four of the five developed terminal renal failure between 7 and 11 years of age. Three subsequently died, but the other underwent kidney transplantation and is still living without further complications. The light, electron microscopic, and immunohistochemical studies performed on the renal biopsies from all the patients and on the autopsy specimens from two cases exhibited FSGS-like lesions. Besides segmental hyalinosis, differing degrees of mesangiolysis were seen, which sometimes developed into dissecting microaneurysms of the glomerular capillary loops. The clinical picture described can be differentiated from congenital nephrotic syndrome (CNS) or infantile nephrotic syndrome (INS) with respect to the age of onset, outcome, and morphological appearance. We reviewed the previous literature and extended earlier observations about an unusual association between the nephrotic syndrome due to FSGS-like lesion, mental retardation, infantile spasms, and/or microcephaly in children. 
Timing for implantation and transplantation in mechanical bridge to transplantation. The implantation of a mechanical blood pump in a deteriorating candidate for heart transplantation is indicated in general if the cardiac index is less than 1.9 L/min/m2 despite maximal inotropic support. Deterioration of end organ function may be taken as a second factor indicating the need for mechanical support as patients with acute onset of shock may react differently from patients with chronic deterioration. Preoperative need for dialysis largely reduces the chances of long-term survival. The time on support should be long enough to normalize or at least improve secondarily damaged organ systems, but with time infectious and thromboembolic complications will increase. So optimal periods for artificial heart support range between two days and four weeks. Age less than 40 years is a positive predictor for outcome in TAH bridging. The general guidelines, however, do not preclude a favourable outcome in complicated cases, as we show in our own series. 
Survivorship analysis of the uncemented porous-coated anatomic knee replacement [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Sep;73(8):1274] Ninety-six patients who had a total of 108 replacements with an uncemented porous-coated anatomic knee prosthesis were followed for an average of sixty-four months (range, thirty-nine to ninety-three months). At the time of the most recent follow-up, twenty-one implants (19 per cent) had failed, all due to problems with the tibial component. A patellar component was not used, and no noteworthy patellar problems were encountered after the operation. There were no infections about the prostheses, and no femoral implant was revised. The most common cause of failure was collapse of the anteromedial part of the tibial plateau, which occurred in fourteen knees. The prosthesis loosened without collapse of bone in two knees, and five knees were revised because of gross wear of the polyethylene. When the time of failure was defined as the point at which revision of the prosthesis was recommended, the cumulative rate of survival was 84 per cent (95 per cent confidence interval, +/- 7 per cent) at five years and 77 +/- 10 per cent at six years. When the time of failure was defined as the point at which the knee replacement was actually done, the five-year rate of survival was the same. No significant differences were demonstrated between groups that were stratified by age, sex, weight, or primary diagnosis. We therefore do not recommend the use of an uncemented porous-coated anatomic knee replacement of the design that was evaluated in this study. 
Inactivation of the Zfx gene on the mouse X chromosome [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Jul 1;88(13):5937] ZFX, an X chromosome-linked gene encoding a zinc-finger protein, has previously been shown to escape X inactivation in humans. Here we report studies of the inactivation status of the homolog, Zfx, on the mouse X chromosome. We took advantage of both the preferential inactivation of the normal X chromosome in females carrying the T(X;16)16H translocation and the high degree of nucleotide sequence variation between the laboratory strain of mouse [corrected] and Mus spretus genomes. An EcoRV restriction fragment difference between laboratory strain of mouse [corrected] and M. spretus was detected after amplification of Zfx transcripts using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Using this allelic variation, we assessed expression of the two Zfx genes in females carrying the T(X;16)16H translocation (from laboratory strain of mouse [corrected]) and an intact X chromosome (from M. spretus). Such females exhibit Zfx transcription from the active laboratory strain of mouse [corrected] chromosome but not from the inactive M. spretus chromosome. These results indicate that the mouse Zfx gene is subject to X inactivation. 
Polymerase chain reaction identification of human papillomavirus DNA in CO2 laser plume from recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. Human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA was identified in the plume produced during CO2 laser vaporization of respiratory tract papillomata. The plume produced from CO2 vaporization was collected on Gelfoam pledgets that were affixed to suction tips evacuating the vapor plume from the operative field. The Gelfoam pledgets were snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, processed, and examined for HPV-6 and HPV-11 DNA by a polymerase chain reaction technique. Tissue and vapor-plume specimens were collected from 22 patients undergoing CO2 laser excision of laryngeal lesions. Seven patients had adult-onset recurrent respiratory laryngeal papillomatosis (RRP), 12 had juvenile-onset RRP, two had laryngeal carcinoma, and one had nonspecific laryngitis. HPV-6 or HPV-11 was identified in 17 of 27 vapor-plume specimens from RRP and in none of three from non-RRP lesions. All but one RRP tissue specimen contained HPV-DNA, and none of the non-RRP tissues contained HPV-DNA. When HPV was present in vapor, the same HPV type was found in the corresponding tissue specimen. Identification of HPV-DNA in the laser plume raises concern regarding potential risks from exposure to the plume--particularly to the endoscopic surgeon and the operating team. The practical concerns and effectiveness of the plume scavenging systems are discussed. 
Race and the self-reported health of elderly persons. This research examined race differences in the structure and measurement of six self-reports of health that are widely used in studies of elderly persons. Second-order confirmatory factor analyses (LISREL) revealed race differences only in the validity of subjective interpretations of health state and in the measurement error of a chronic conditions indicator. No race differences were found in the form of the four-factor model of self-reported health. Results, interpreted within a cognitive illness-labeling framework, have implications for future race-comparative health research. 
Peritonitis due to Rhizopus in a patient undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. A 61-year-old man who had end-stage renal disease secondary to diabetes mellitus and hypertension developed peritonitis due to infection with Rhizopus as a complication of receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). At the onset of infection, the patient was neither acidemic nor hyperglycemic; in addition, deferoxamine had not been administered and Elastoplast dressings had not been applied. The infection occurred after the technique for disinfection of the catheter used for CAPD had been changed. The catheter was removed, and therapy with amphotericin B was initiated. Although the patient died of apparently unrelated causes, an autopsy revealed active fungal infection with multiple abscesses and superficial invasion of the ileal wall. 
A case for early surgery in native left-sided endocarditis complicated by heart failure: results in 203 patients From January 1982 to December 1988, 203 consecutive patients were selected for early valve replacement (mean 10 days from time of admission) if they had clinical evidence of native valve endocarditis with 1) vegetations on echocardiography, 2) severe valvular lesions, and 3) heart failure. Surgery was performed within 7 days of admission in 56% of patients and was done urgently because of hemodynamic deterioration in 108 (53%). All vegetations were identified by echocardiography and confirmed macroscopically at surgery. One hundred ten patients had isolated aortic valve infection, 50 had isolated mitral valve infection (p less than 0.05 for aortic vs. mitral) and 43 had double-valve infection. Mean aortic cross-clamp time was 57, 38 and 67 min, respectively. Sixty-four patients (32%) had extensive infection involving the anulus or adjacent tissues, or both; such infection more frequently involved the aortic than the mitral valve (p less than 0.05). Thirty-eight patients (35%) with aortic valve infection had abscess formation compared with 1 patient (2%) with mitral valve infection (p less than 0.05). Only eight patients (4%) died in the hospital. There were seven patients (3%) with a periprosthetic leak and five patients (3%) with early prosthetic valve endocarditis. Long-term follow-up, available in 174 hospital survivors (89%), revealed 10 deaths and two new ring leaks at 38 +/- 22 months. In conclusion, among patients with endocarditis who need surgery for heart failure, aortic valve infection is more prevalent than mitral valve infection and is more often associated with extensive infection, including abscess formation. 
Human immunodeficiency virus-related lymphomas: a possible association between tumor proliferation, lack of ploidy anomalies, and immune deficiency In an attempt to identify a biologic basis for the aggressive clinical behavior of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated lymphomas (HAL), dual-parameter flow-cytometric analysis was performed on 22 paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens. Cases were analyzed for DNA ploidy, the percentage of cells in S-phase (proliferative activity), and content of a recently identified proliferation-associated nuclear antigen, p105. The DNA-content analysis of 22 HALs was compared with that of 109 cases of intermediate-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) unrelated to the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) studied previously in our laboratory and 125 cases of high-grade NHL reported in the literature. The proliferative activity was higher in intermediate-grade HAL relative to non-AIDS NHL (24.0% v 10.4%; P = .03), and in high-grade HAL in comparison with NHLs of similar histology unassociated with HIV infection (24.8% v 19%), although the latter did not reach statistical significance. The number of mitoses per 10 high-power fields was found to correlate with the percentage of cells in S-phase (r = .68; P = .0004). Although p105 content tended to be higher in HAL than in an AIDS-related complex (ARC)-associated hyperplastic lymph node control, no statistically significant associations were found between p105 content and proliferative activity or the number of mitoses per 10 high-power fields. When compared with non-AIDS NHLs of comparable grade, there was a trend toward a lower incidence of DNA aneuploidy in both intermediate- (25% v 56%) and high-grade (38.5% v 60%) HALs. The higher proliferative activity and lower incidence of DNA aneuploidy found in HAL relative to non-AIDS NHL of comparable histologic grade may represent differences in pathogenesis and may underlie the poor prognosis of HIV-associated NHL. 
Estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors and heat-shock 27-kD protein in liver biopsy specimens from patients with hepatitis B virus infection. It has been proposed that in the human liver, the estrogen receptor gene may become inappropriately expressed as a consequence of HBV integration, contributing to cell transformation. This study was undertaken to examine estrogen receptor status in patients with hepatitis B virus infection and to analyze the expression of progesterone receptor and of a heat-shock 27,000-D protein (hsp27), both of which are estrogen regulated in estrogen target tissues. Receptor proteins were detected in liver biopsy specimens by immunocytochemistry using antireceptor monoclonal antibodies; a monoclonal antibody was also used to detect hsp27. Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor were mainly seen in the nuclei of hepatocytes. The presence of hepatitis B virus infection did not always result in elevated estrogen receptor expression, but in general the expression of this receptor protein was higher in hepatitis B virus-positive patients than in patients with the same pathological findings (hepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatocarcinoma) but without hepatitis B virus. This was more clearly seen in the patients with hepatitis. Although estrogen receptor expression was moderate to high in many samples, the expression of the two biochemical markers of estrogen action at postreceptor levels (progesterone receptor and hsp27) was low or absent in most of the liver tissues examined, suggesting that in the liver the interaction of estrogen-estrogen receptor-DNA has characteristics inherent to this tissue. 
Perspectives on human response to health and illness. Nursing's domain has been defined as the diagnosis and treatment of human responses to health problems, yet debate rages over what "human responses" are. Without clear meanings for this and other terms used in nursing, the profession cannot claim that its practice is scientifically based, nor can it share that base among disciplines. 
Recurrent abdominal pain due to chronic appendiceal disease. Recurrent appendicitis and chronic appendicitis are the subjects of much controversy, but long-standing inflammation of the appendix and surrounding tissues has been reported in rare instances. We have described two patients, both with recurrent episodes of abdominal pain, who subsequently were shown to have chronic appendiceal disease. Appendiceal disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with recurrent abdominal pain. 
Intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia in children after selective dorsal root rhizotomy. The authors report their experience with low doses (0.007-0.015 mg/kg), moderate doses (0.016-0.025 mg/kg), and high doses (0.026-0.035 mg/kg) of intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia after selective dorsal root rhizotomy surgery in 50 children, aged 3 to 12 years. After closure of the dura, a single dose of preservative-free morphine was injected into the subarachnoid space, and patients were assessed for 48 hours for level of comfort and side effects. The three doses of morphine provided equivalent analgesia and similar side effects. The duration of postoperative analgesia ranged from 3 to 48 hours (mean, 12.2 +/- 9.5 h). Common side effects were limited to nausea and vomiting (42%) and mild facial pruritus. No patient experienced late respiratory depression or generalized pruritus. The authors conclude that low doses of intrathecal morphine is as effective as moderate or high doses of morphine for reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period. Intrathecal morphine provides excellent analgesia after selective dorsal rhizotomy. 
The effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy on renal growth, function and arterial blood pressure in an animal model. The long-term effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) on children treated for renal calculi are unclear. To study the long-term bio-effects of this mode of treatment on the immature animal we evaluated 30 New Zealand white rabbits at 7 weeks of age for weight, serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine, and arterial blood pressure after which they underwent left nephrectomy. Each group of 5 rabbits received ESWL of varying levels (500 to 3,000 shock waves) to the remaining right kidney using the Northgate SD3 lithotriptor (spark gap mediated). One control group received no shock waves. At maturity (16 weeks) the aforementioned parameters were measured again, and the kidneys and any grossly abnormal adjacent organs were examined. We found no significant change in total animal growth, renal growth, renal function or perirenal organs in the post-ESWL groups versus the control group. All post-ESWL groups had an increase in mean arterial blood pressure versus the control group with 3 of 6 groups showing significant increases (p less than 0.05). Histological renal changes, seen at all energy levels of ESWL delivered, included interstitial fibrosis, tubular atrophy, glomeruli destruction, capsular thickening, perivascular fibrosis and mild arteriole wall thickening. Changes were proportional to the number of shocks received. We conclude that ESWL delivered to immature animals does not significantly affect renal growth and function but it can cause significant permanent histological renal changes even at low doses and may result in an increase in adult mean arterial blood pressure. 
The pharmacology of stuttering: a critical review. OBJECTIVE: The author critically examines the limited world literature on pharmacologic treatments of stuttering. METHOD: The literature on stuttering and drugs was identified by means of two computer-assisted searches. FINDINGS: A great variety of pharmacologic agents have been used to treat stuttering, reflecting the many theories about the origin and nature of the disorder. In some instances new hypotheses about the nature of stuttering have followed the chance discovery of agents having some efficacy. CONCLUSIONS: Few studies have used adequate experimental designs. Promising avenues of research, both for the treatment of stuttering and for exploring its nature, include the use of calcium channel blocking agents and cholinergic drugs. 
Management of ventricular septal defect with associated aortic incompetence. Twenty-two patients with a ventricular septal defect and aortic incompetence underwent surgical repair. Mean age was 9.6 years (range, 9 to 15 years). Mean follow-up was 32.4 +/- 15.8 months. The ventricular septal defect was perimembranous in 19 patients and doubly committed or juxtaarterial in 3. Most showed only a small left-to-right shunt. Mean diameter was 11.9 +/- 4.8 mm. Aortic incompetence was mild in 6 patients, moderate in 4, and severe in 12. In 16 patients closure of the ventricular septal defect and aortic valvoplasty were both performed through the aortic root. There were no deaths. All patients retained normal sinus rhythm. No complete heart block was found. In 3 patients secondary aortic valve replacement was required for severe incompetence; in 1 the cause was bacterial endocarditis, in another technical failure, and in a third progressive incompetence over an 8-month period. All patients showed substantial clinical improvement, marked decrease or disappearance of the valvar incompetence, diminution of the left ventricular end-diastolic diameter, and decreased cardiothoracic ratio. We conclude that primary repair is the operation of choice for this combination of lesions. This can avoid or delay considerably valvar replacement. The left-sided approach proves safe and is our preferred technique. 
Characterization of childhood acute leukemia with multiple myeloid and lymphoid markers at diagnosis and at relapse. To define the clinical and biologic significance of childhood acute mixed-lineage leukemia diagnosed by stringent criteria, we studied 25 cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia expressing greater than or equal to 2 myeloid-associated antigens (My+ ALL), and 16 cases of acute myeloid leukemia expressing greater than or equal to 2 lymphoid associated antigens (Ly+ AML). These cases represented 6.1% of 410 newly diagnosed ALLs (two treatment protocols) and 16.8% of 95 AMLs (two protocols). T-lineage--associated antigens were identified in 9 of the My+ ALL cases and in 14 of those classified as Ly+ AML; all but 1 of the 19 cases that could be subclassified had an early thymocyte stage of differentiation. The My+ ALL cases had an increased frequency of French-American-British (FAB) L2 morphology (36%); the Ly+ AML cases were characterized by FAB M1 or M2 morphology, low levels of myeloperoxidase reactivity and combined populations of myeloperoxidase-positive large blasts and small blasts generally of hand-mirror morphology. Karyotypic abnormalities included t(9;22)(q34;q11) in three cases of My+ ALL, 11q23 translocations in two cases of My+ ALL, and 14q32 translocations in three My+ ALL and five Ly+ AML cases. Mixed-lineage expression lacked prognostic significance in either ALL or AML; however, the findings indicate that some patients with Ly+ AML may respond to prednisone, vincristine, and L-asparaginase after failing on protocols for myeloid leukemia. At relapse, two My+ ALLs had converted to AML and two Ly+ AMLs to ALL; one case in each group showed complete replacement of the original karyotype. Acute mixed-lineage leukemia does not adequately describe the heterogeneity of the cases identified in this study and should be replaced by a set of more restrictive terms that indicate the unique biologic features of these leukemias. 
A new technique for sheathless percutaneous intraaortic balloon catheter insertion. Intraaortic balloon counterpulsation is helpful for controlling myocardial ischemia and providing hemodynamic support, but its applicability is limited by lower extremity ischemic complications in a significant percentage of patients. We developed a new sheathless technique for percutaneous intraaortic balloon catheter insertion which reduces the effective catheter diameter. A pilot study using this new technique resulted in a 10% rate of limb ischemia, without compromise of balloon function. We conclude that this technique may be useful in reducing the incidence of limb ischemia associated with intraaortic balloon counterpulsation. 
A mutation in the tRNA(Leu)(UUR) gene associated with the MELAS subgroup of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies are usually divided into three distinct clinical subgroups: (1) mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS); (2) myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged-red fibres (MERRF); and (3) chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) including Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Large deletions of human mitochondrial DNA and a transition mutation at the mitochondrial transfer RNALys gene give rise to CPEO including Kearns-Sayre syndrome and MERRF, respectively. Here we report an A-to-G transition mutation at nucleotide pair 3,243 in the dihydrouridine loop of mitochondrial tRNA(Leu)(UUR) that is specific to patients with MELAS. Because this mutation creates an ApaI restriction site, we could perform a simple molecular diagnostic test for the disease. The mutation was present in 26 out of 31 independent MELAS patients and 1 out of 29 CPEO patients, but absent in the 5 MERRF and 50 controls tested. Southern blot analysis confirmed that the mutant DNA always coexists with the wild-type DNA (heteroplasmy). 
Omega-3 fatty acids in health and disease and in growth and development. Several sources of information suggest that man evolved on a diet with a ratio of omega 6 to omega 3 fatty acids of approximately 1 whereas today this ratio is approximately 10:1 to 20-25:1, indicating that Western diets are deficient in omega 3 fatty acids compared with the diet on which humans evolved and their genetic patterns were established. Omega-3 fatty acids increase bleeding time; decrease platelet aggregation, blood viscosity, and fibrinogen; and increase erythrocyte deformability, thus decreasing the tendency to thrombus formation. In no clinical trial, including coronary artery graft surgery, has there been any evidence of increased blood loss due to ingestion of omega 3 fatty acids. Many studies show that the effects of omega 3 fatty acids on serum lipids depend on the type of patient and whether the amount of saturated fatty acids in the diet is held constant. In patients with hyperlipidemia, omega 3 fatty acids decrease low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol if the saturated fatty acid content is decreased, otherwise there is a slight increase, but at high doses (32 g) they lower LDL cholesterol; furthermore, they consistently lower serum triglycerides in normal subjects and in patients with hypertriglyceridemia whereas the effect on high-density lipoprotein (HDL) varies from no effect to slight increases. The discrepancies between animal and human studies most likely are due to differences between animal and human metabolism. In clinical trials eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in the form of fish oils along with antirheumatic drugs improve joint pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis; have a beneficial effect in patients with ulcerative colitis; and in combination with drugs, improve the skin lesions, lower the hyperlipidemia from etretinates, and decrease the toxicity of cyclosporin in patients with psoriasis. In various animal models omega 3 fatty acids decrease the number and size of tumors and increase the time elapsed before appearance of tumors. Studies with nonhuman primates and human newborns indicate that DHA is essential for the normal functional development of the retina and brain, particularly in premature infants. Because omega 3 fatty acids are essential in growth and development throughout the life cycle, they should be included in the diets of all humans. Omega-3 and omega 6 fatty acids are not interconvertible in the human body and are important components of practically all cell membranes. Whereas cellular proteins are genetically determined, the polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) composition of cell membranes is to a great extent dependent on the dietary intake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Effect of altered activation sequence on epicardial QRST area and refractory period in dogs. BACKGROUND. We investigated the effects of activation sequence on cardiac surface QRST areas and refractory periods in experiments on dogs. METHODS AND RESULTS. Right and left ventricular pacings were performed, and the pacing site was altered every 6 minutes. After 4 minutes of a given pacing, 54 unipolar electrograms distributed over the entire cardiac surface were recorded. Next, refractory periods at electrode sites near pacing electrodes were measured. Paired right ventricular/left ventricular (RV/LV) pacing data were obtained six or seven times in each sample. Although the QRST isoarea maps during the two activation orders were qualitatively similar, it was recognized consistently from the right ventricle-left ventricle difference map that leads around the RV free wall had positive values and that leads around the LV free wall and apex had negative values. Compared with the same leads at RV and LV pacing, QRST areas were larger when pacing sites were near the leads. The local QRST areas of individual leads at which we measured local refractory period were consistently larger during drive from proximal pacing sites than during drive from distant pacing sites. Refractory periods were consistently longer during proximal pacing than during distal pacing, and there was a positive correlation between change in local QRST area and change in refractory period (r = 0.64) during altered activation sequence, whereas there was an inverse correlation between change in QRST area and change in refractory period (r = -0.91) during localized myocardial warming. CONCLUSIONS. Both local QRST areas and local refractory periods were dependent on the activation sequence, and there was a positive correlation between QRST areas and refractory periods during various activation sequences compared with localized myocardial warming. 
Dramatic response of follicular thyroid carcinoma with superior vena cava syndrome and tracheal obstruction to external-beam radiotherapy. We report a patient with follicular thyroid carcinoma progressing to superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome and tracheal obstruction despite multiple doses of radioactive iodine therapy but subsequently responding dramatically to external-beam radiotherapy (RT). Although RT is not considered to be the treatment of choice for follicular carcinoma, RT in our patient produced unequivocal improvement of SVC syndrome and tracheal obstruction. 
Venous thromboembolism after brain tumor surgery: a retrospective review. We retrospectively reviewed the incidence rate of clinical postoperative deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in 1703 patients undergoing initial craniotomy for meningioma, glioma, or cerebral metastasis. The incidence rate of clinical thromboembolic complications was 1.59% for all tumor groups within the first 4 weeks of surgery. Patients undergoing surgery for meningiomas had a statistically significant increased risk of thromboembolism despite fewer overall perioperative risk factors, when compared with the other tumor groups. The tumor-specific incidence rates of deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism for meningioma, glioma, and metastasis were 3.09%, 0.97%, and 1.03%, respectively. Whether this difference was a result of increased surgical time or an inherent property of meningiomas could not be ascertained. 
Assessment of the human coronary circulation using a Doppler catheter. Arteriographic estimates of stenosis severity can fail to reflect the impact of an individual stenosis on delivery of blood to the myocardium. Whether a coronary stenosis is truly flow-limiting can be determined by measuring hyperemic blood flow or coronary flow reserve; however, until recently, the tools needed to measure coronary flow reserve in humans--namely, a method of quantitating coronary blood flow in individual arteries and another method for producing maximal microvascular vasodilation--were not available. Over the last 8 years, our laboratory group has developed a catheter for measuring coronary blood flow velocity in humans, using the Doppler principle, and studied the effects of microvascular vasodilators. These studies have enabled us to measure coronary flow reserve in humans and to characterize some of the effects of focal and diffuse atherosclerosis on the coronary circulation. In addition, we have used flow reserve measurements in the diagnosis of microvascular dysfunction in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries and as a means of assessing noninvasive methods for detecting focal coronary artery disease. 
Phenotypic heterogeneity in the syndromes of 3-methylglutaconic aciduria. Combined 3-methylglutaconic and 3-methylglutaric aciduria, one of the more common urinary organic acid abnormalities, has been observed in at least three clinical syndromes. We studied an additional seven patients with 3-methylglutaconic aciduria, four of whom were best categorized as having the type II syndrome, two as having an "unspecified" syndrome, and one who may have had a primary urea cycle defect. In cultured cells and autopsy tissues derived from patients with the type II and unspecified syndromes, we were unsuccessful in identifying a defect in the leucine degradative pathway distal to 3-methylcrotonyl-coenzyme A carboxylase and in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway between 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase and diphosphomevalonate decarboxylase. Further assessment of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway in several patients with one of the two types of disease also provided no defined abnormality. The primary metabolic defects in the type II and unspecified syndromes remain undefined. 
Outpatient liver biopsy: one man's experience. As an academically based gastroenterologist, I performed 94 outpatient liver biopsies over a 42-month period, using the standard suction technique. Differential blood count and vital signs were monitored, with no statistically significant postbiopsy changes noted in the group at large. One patient required admission to the hospital for bleeding, and six patients required intramuscular analgesics for pain at the biopsy site. Four patients had bradycardia, and one of them required atropine for bradycardia and hypotension. Outpatient liver biopsy is a safe procedure with low morbidity and complication rate. It would appear that prolonged monitoring is not necessary. 
Clinical anatomic study of pure dysarthria. Nine patients with pure dysarthria underwent computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Eight patients had infarcts of lacunar or larger size in the internal capsule: four in the superior portion of the anterior limb or adjacent corona radiata and four in the superior portion of the genu or the adjacent corona radiata. In one patient, there was a small infarct in the bulbar motor cortex. Dysarthria was transient and characterized by poor articulation in all cases. Five patients also had contralateral facial weakness, and three patients with lesions in the genu had minimal and transient involvement of the contralateral fingers. These three cases appeared to be variants of the dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome. We submit that this syndrome should sometimes be regarded as a stroke syndrome rather than always as a lacunar syndrome. 
Cervicomedullary junction decompression in a case of Marshall-Smith syndrome. Case report. The case is reported of a 2-year-old boy born with Marshall-Smith syndrome who had difficulty in swallowing and who exhibited spasticity and quadriparesis due to compression of the medulla and cervical spine. This is the first child with this rare condition reported to have brain-stem compression from bone abnormalities at the craniovertebral junction and who has required surgery. 
Effect of intrathecal fibrinolytic therapy on clot lysis and vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. A prospective series of 30 patients with a single, angiographically verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was studied for the effect of intrathecal thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) on outcome, angiographic vasospasm, and computerized tomography (CT) findings after surgery. The patients included fulfilled the following criteria: operation was performed by Day 3 after the hemorrhage, CT showed only blood in the basal cisterns, and the patient had a single aneurysm or multiple aneurysms that could be treated surgically at the same operation. The patients were divided into groups of 10, with patients receiving 3, 10, or 13 mg of rt-PA in a single intracisternal injection at the end of the operation. There were no differences between the treatment groups in overall outcome. One patient from the 3-mg rt-PA group developed a postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage, and one patient from the 10-mg rt-PA group had a postoperative epidural hematoma. There was one death in the 13-mg rt-PA group that was caused by inclusion of a segment of pericallosal artery in the clip. In all treatment groups a reduction was observed in the amount of blood seen on the postoperative CT scans compared to the preoperative CT scans. The reduction in SAH grade between the 10-mg and 13-mg rt-PA groups was significant (p less than 0.05). The difference in the severity of angiographic vasospasm between the 3-mg and 13-mg rt-PA groups was also significant (p less than 0.05). 
Efficacy and safety of a perioperative enoxaparin regimen in total hip replacement under various anesthesias. Four trials in which enoxaparin, a low-molecular-weight heparin, was used in patients having hip surgery are reported. In the first two trials, enoxaparin was given before general anesthesia. The protocol consisted of 40 mg of enoxaparin, 4,000 anti-factor Xa IU, subcutaneously 12 hours before surgery, followed by the same dose 12 hours after surgery and then once daily. In the third trial, this protocol was compared with unfractionated heparin calcium given in a standardized manner and appeared to be significantly superior both in efficacy and tolerance. In the fourth trial, the protocol was adapted for use in spinal subarachnoidal anesthesia; 20 mg of enoxaparin, 2,000 anti-factor Xa IU, was given subcutaneously 1 hour after anesthesia and 40 mg 12 hours later. In all these trials tolerance was good. Excessive bleeding did not occur with the 40 mg once daily regimen. Efficacy was good and compared favorably with other protocols in use. 
Calcium channel blockers. Potential medical benefits and side effects. Calcium channel blockers are recently developed antihypertensive drugs. In terms of mechanisms of action, their specificity is not so well established as that of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors but is better understood than that for diuretics or adrenergic-inhibiting drugs. Calcium channel blockers were originally developed for treatment of angina but were found to lower arterial pressure as well. Three of them are now in wide use in the United States; their therapeutic spectrum in regard to type of hypertension is broad. Sublingual nifedipine has replaced intravenously administered vasodilators as immediate treatment of severe hypertension, and all three drugs, given orally, have been shown to be effective in mild, moderate, and severe hypertension. The three drugs available in this country are verapamil, diltiazem, and nifedipine. Pharmacological studies have shown that verapamil has the most negative chronotropic and inotropic effects of the three, with nifedipine producing the most vasodilation and having the potential for causing reflex tachycardia. Actually in practice, these various pharmacological differences have proved to have less significance than previously thought, and the drugs seem to have about equal antihypertensive effectiveness. Comparisons of calcium entry blockers with other drugs have shown them to be equally effective in whites as propranolol but more effective in blacks. Responsiveness appears to be related, as well, to pretreatment plasma renin activity and age. Thus, the antihypertensive effect is directly related to age and inversely related to plasma renin activity. The side effects mostly relate to vasodilation, reflex tachycardia, palpitations, headache, and edema; they are not frequent, and the drugs are well tolerated. 
Influence of phlebographic abnormalities on the natural history of venous ulceration. Eighty-five limbs in 73 patients with a healed venous ulcer were assessed by ascending and descending phlebography, foot volume plethysmography and transcutaneous oxygen measurements. Forty-four limbs had post-thrombotic changes on ascending phlebography. In 24 (28 per cent) these extended into the femoral vein, while in 20 (24 per cent) only the calf veins were involved. In the 41 limbs (48 per cent) with normal deep veins on ascending phlebography, 11 had evidence of localized incompetence of the calf communicating veins, 14 had either long saphenous incompetence, deep vein reflux to the level of the knee or below, or both of these abnormalities, and 16 limbs had no phlebographic abnormalities. However all limbs had a decreased half volume refilling time on foot volume plethysmography. Limbs with post-thrombotic changes extending into the femoral vein were associated with a significantly longer history of ulceration and more ulcer recurrences than limbs with calf vein damage (P less than 0.05 for each) and limbs with normal deep veins (P less than 0.01 for each). However, these limbs did not have lower transcutaneous oxygen ratios or longer times to achieve ulcer healing. Ascending phlebography identified a group of limbs with extensive post-thrombotic changes in which there was a higher incidence of ulcer breakdown, but this was not associated with a delay in ulcer healing. 
Bradycardic responses to vagally mediated bedside maneuvers in healthy volunteers. PURPOSE: To determine the relative potency in healthy individuals of the vagally mediated reflexes used clinically to inhibit sinoatrial and atrioventricular node function. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Twenty healthy volunteers with no history of heart disease performed face immersion in cold water and the Valsalva maneuver twice, to maximum endurance and to the subjective point of first discomfort, and face immersion in warm water and the Muller maneuver to maximum endurance only. Right and left carotid massage and left, right, and bilateral eyeball compression were each performed for 15 seconds. Change in heart rate was taken as baseline minus the rate over the slowest three consecutive QRS cycles elicited by each maneuver. Fisher's least-significant-difference multiple comparison procedure was used to analyze heart rate responses. Significance was defined as p less than or equal to 0.05. RESULTS: Maximum pulse decrements from baseline and 95% confidence intervals in beats/minute were as follows: cold-water face immersion to maximum endurance 15.5 (12.3 to 18.5), cold-water face immersion to first discomfort 10.1 (6.7 to 13.1), Valsalva maneuver to maximum endurance 9.2 (6.3 to 12.4), Valsalva maneuver to first discomfort 8.3 (5.0 to 11.3), right carotid massage 7.3 (4.3 to 10.3), left carotid massage 5.2 (2.3 to 8.4), right eyeball compression 6.0 (3.1 to 9.2), left eyeball compression 6.6 (3.6 to 9.5), bilateral eyeball compression 6.0 (3.1 to 9.2), warm-water face immersion 7.0 (3.2 to 9.8), and Muller maneuver 1.6 (-1.3 to 4.9). Bradycardia was significantly greater for cold-water immersion of the face performed to maximum endurance than for all other maneuvers. CONCLUSION: In healthy subjects, the diving reflex is the most potent of the vagally mediated reflexes utilized in clinical practice. Immersion of the face in cold water may prove effective at the bedside when other maneuvers fail to augment vagal tone adequately. 
Liver enzyme abnormalities in Parkinson's disease. If toxicant exposure contributes to the cause of Parkinson's disease, poor function of detoxifying enzymes could increase vulnerability for Parkinson's disease. Although no hepatic enzyme system has been shown universally to be dysfunctional in Parkinson's disease patients, several have been suggested to be dysfunctional in subgroups, such as those with young age at disease onset. Specific enzymes implicated include several P450 enzymes, most notably P450 IID6, and cysteine dioxygenase. If hepatic enzyme abnormalities contribute to the development of Parkinson's disease, molecular genetic techniques may allow the development of screening tests to identify at-risk subjects in order to intervene with protective therapies. 
Diagnosis and treatment of headache in the elderly. The diagnosis and management of some causes of headache in the elderly are reviewed. Etiologic theories have been presented for each condition. Treatment modalities include pharmacologic, nonpharmacologic, and surgical therapies. The treatment course set forth in this article can help the clinician provide proper relief for the patient in pain. 
Splenectomy does not correlate with length of survival in patients undergoing curative total gastrectomy for gastric carcinoma. Univariate and multivariate analyses. The relationship between splenectomy and survival time after curative total gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer was examined by reviewing retrospectively data on 252 patients treated in our clinics between 1965 and 1985. One hundred three patients (40.9%) did not undergo splenectomy and 149 (59.1%) did. In patients subjected to splenectomy, advanced stages of the malignancy were more frequent and metastasis was noticed in 8.1% of splenic hilar lymph nodes and in 10.1% of the lymph nodes associated with the splenic artery. A univariate analysis revealed that the survival time of patients with splenectomy was significantly less than those for whom splenectomy was not done (P less than 0.05). In a subgroup of our patients stratified to adjust for the stage of disease, there was no significant difference between the survival rates. Subsequently, multivariate analysis using the Cox regression analysis adjusted for sex, age, and other covariates indicated that serosa invasion, lymph node metastasis, and tumor size were the most important prognostic factors, and there was no correlation whatever with splenectomy. Our findings rule out any relationship between splenectomy and length of survival time in patients undergoing curative total gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer. 
Preservation of hearing in neurofibromatosis 2. Preservation of hearing in the neurofibromatosis 2 (central neurofibromatosis) patient has been infrequently documented. This goal can be attained in selected patients and should be more frequently accomplished in the future with improved diagnostic capabilities and improved surgical techniques. We report three patients in whom this elusive goal has been accomplished. 
Comparison of exercise testing with studies of coronary flow reserve in patients with microvascular angina. Abnormal small coronary artery function may cause limited coronary flow responses to stress, resulting in anginal symptoms and ischemia in some patients with chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries. To assess the exercise hemodynamic correlates of coronary flow abnormalities measured in the cardiac catheterization laboratory, 105 patients with microvascular angina (defined as an increase in coronary vascular resistance during pacing stress after ergonovine administration in the absence of significant epicardial constriction and associated with provocation of the patient's typical chest pain) and 27 patients without any coronary flow abnormality (normal) were analyzed. Of the 105 patients with microvascular angina, 75 had normal electrocardiographic responses to treadmill exercise testing, 22 had ischemic responses, and eight had bundle branch block during exercise. All 27 normal patients had normal electrocardiographic responses to exercise. Patients with ischemic electrocardiographic responses (0 +/- 7%, p less than 0.01), and those with bundle branch block (-2 +/- 6%, p less than 0.01) had abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction responses to exercise compared with the normal group, who demonstrated an 8 +/- 6% increase in left ventricular ejection fraction by radionuclide angiography during exercise, and microvascular angina patients with a normal electrocardiographic response to exercise, who demonstrated a 5 +/- 7% increase in ejection fraction. Although the microvascular response to ergonovine was no different among the three microvascular angina exercise groups, the administration of dipyridamole caused less coronary vasodilation in those patients with apparently ischemic or bundle branch block responses to exercise compared with those with normal electrocardiograms during exercise. 
Natriuretic peptides as cardiac hormones in normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats. The ventricle is a major site of synthesis and secretion of brain natriuretic peptide. To study synthesis, storage, and secretion of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in the heart, we have measured BNP mRNA and BNP concentrations in the hearts of Wistar-Kyoto rats and also have investigated its secretion from the isolated perfused heart. The atrium expressed the BNP gene at a high level, and a considerable amount of BNP mRNA also was present in the ventricle, which corresponded to approximately 40% of the atrial BNP mRNA concentration. When tissue weight was taken into account, the total content of BNP mRNA in the ventricle was approximately threefold larger than that in the atrium, although the atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) mRNA content in the ventricle was only 7% of that in the atrium. By contrast, the BNP concentration in the ventricle was 4.07 +/- 0.97 pmol/g, which was less than 1% of that in the atrium (451 +/- 86 pmol/g). The basal secretory rate of BNP from the isolated perfused whole heart was 49.3 +/- 6.1 fmol/min, approximately 60% of which was maintained even after atrial removal, whereas the secretory rate of ANP was reduced to less than 5%. We also studied age-matched spontaneously hypertensive rats-stroke prone. The rank order of the BNP mRNA concentration in the hearts of these rats was left ventricle greater than right ventricle greater than right atrium = left atrium, and the total BNP mRNA content and BNP secretory rate in the ventricle were twice as large as in Wistar-Kyoto rats. These results demonstrate that BNP is a novel cardiac hormone in rats and is predominantly synthesized in and secreted from the ventricle. This is in striking contrast to ANP, which occurs mainly in the atrium. The results also suggest possible pathophysiological roles of BNP in certain cardiovascular disorders. 
Randomized trial of salbutamol in acute bronchiolitis. To test whether nebulized salbutamol (albuterol) is safe and efficacious for the treatment of young children with acute bronchiolitis, we enrolled 83 children (median age 6 months, range 1 to 21 months) in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial. Participants received two treatments at 30-minute intervals of either nebulized salbutamol (0.10 mg/kg in 2 ml 0.9% saline solution) or a similar volume of 0.9% saline solution placebo. Outcome measures were the respiratory rate, pulse oximetry, and a clinical score based on the degree of wheezing and retractions. Patients in the salbutamol arm had significantly greater improvement in clinical scores after the initial treatment (p = 0.04). There was no difference between the groups in oxygen saturation (p = 0.74); patients treated with salbutamol had a small increase in heart rate after two treatments (159 +/- 16 vs 151 +/- 16; p = 0.03). We conclude that salbutamol is safe and effective for the initial treatment of young children with acute bronchiolitis. 
Altered stores of atrial natriuretic peptide in specific brain nuclei of NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats. Previous studies from our laboratories have demonstrated a selective increase in stores of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) in the anterior hypothalamus of NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-S) compared to NaCl-resistant Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) controls and have suggested that anterior hypothalamic ANP contributes to the pathogenesis of NaCl-sensitive hypertension in SHR-S by local inhibition of norepinephrine release. We have also observed blunting of cardiopulmonary and arterial baroreflex function in SHR-S compared to WKY. In the current study, ANP stores in 12 brain nuclei thought to participate in the pathogenesis of hypertension, including locus coeruleus (LC), A1/C1 area (A1/C1), nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), medial preoptic nucleus (MPON), suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), supraoptic nucleus (SON), anterior hypothalamic area (AHA), paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN), ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN), dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMN), lateral hypothalamic nucleus (LN), and posterior hypothalamic area (PHA), were compared in 10-week-old male SHR-S and WKY rats following 3 weeks of 1% v 8% NaCl feeding. Individual brain nuclei were obtained by the micropunch technique and ANP content of bilateral brain nuclei from individual rats was measured by radioimmunoassay. ANP content was significantly decreased in NTS and LC and elevated in AHA of SHR-S compared to WKY rats on either diet. Dietary NaCl supplementation was associated with increased ANP content in PVN of both strains. These alterations in ANP content in SHR-S may be related to the reduced release of norepinephrine from nerve terminals in AHA and to the presumed central defect in baroreceptor function. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of temporomandibular joint after surgical treatment of internal derangement. Sagittal and coronal surface coil magnetic resonance imaging was performed on 21 patients who about 2 years earlier had surgery for temporomandibular joint internal derangement. Surgical procedure included disk repositioning (23 joints) and diskectomy (seven joints). At the time of reimaging, 20 joints showed recurrence of pain and 10 joints were asymptomatic. Extensive fibrous tissue was seen in the joint space and in the joint capsule in 13 of the 20 painful joints, whereas minimal fibrous tissue in the lateral capsule wall was seen in 3 of the 10 nonpainful joints. Fibrous tissue was surgically confirmed in 10 of the painful joints. Disk displacement was seen in 11 of the 23 joints that had surgical disk repositioning. Disk displacement was seen in both painful (9/17) and nonpainful joints (2/6). It was concluded that magnetic resonance imaging is an excellent method for postoperative imaging of the temporomandibular joint and that attention should be directed to the presence or absence and extension of the fibrous tissue in the joint space and in the joint capsule. 
Venous gangrene (phlegmasia caerulea dolens) complicating heart failure from severe mitral stenosis--a case history. Gangrene of the left upper limb was found to complicate severe mitral stenosis presenting with heart failure in a sixty-eight-year-old woman with a documented left atrial thrombus. Arterial obstruction as the cause of gangrene was excluded by Doppler-assisted assessment of the peripheral pulses. Venous gangrene can complicate severe mitral stenosis and must be distinguished from arterial embolization, in which urgent surgical treatment is imperative. 
Manifestations of pulmonary cryptococcosis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Cryptococcosis is a common opportunistic infection in patients with AIDS. Meningitis is the most frequent manifestation of infection with Cryptococcus neoformans; pneumonia due to this organism, though less frequently recognized, is also a significant entity. A retrospective review was performed of all patients seen at Duke University Medical Center between January 1981 and July 1989 who were infected with both human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and C. neoformans. Of 31 patients with these concomitant infections, 12 had cryptococcal pneumonia (10 definite and two presumptive cases). Eleven of these 12 patients had evidence of extrapulmonary cryptococcal disease as well. Chest radiography showed interstitial infiltrates in 11 instances. For ten of the 12 patients, pulmonary cultures were positive for C. neoformans. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from all five patients who underwent bronchoscopy yielded the organism. Acute-phase mortality from cryptococcosis was 42% among patients with pneumonia. Cryptococcal pneumonia in patients with AIDS is probably more common than has previously been recognized and typically presents as interstitial disease that may mimic other opportunistic infections. 
Expression of interleukin-4 receptors on early human B-lineage cells. Interleukin-4 (IL-4) regulates multiple stages of the antigen-dependent phase of B-cell development. However, its precise role in regulating B lymphopoiesis in bone marrow is not as well defined. We examined whether surface IgM- normal and leukemic human B-cell precursors (BCP) expressed IL-4 receptors using biotinylated IL-4. Constitutive expression of IL-4 receptors was detected on both normal and leukemic BCP. A higher percentage of normal BCP (82% +/- 15%) expressed IL-4 receptors compared with leukemic BCP (44% +/- 8%). Using mean fluorescent intensity as an indicator of receptor level on the IL-4 receptor positive cells, normal (91 +/- 41) and leukemic (44 +/- 37) BCP expressed comparable numbers of receptors. IL-4 induced the expression of CD23 on 30% of the leukemic BCP cases examined. IL-4 induced CD23 on surface IgM+ fetal bone marrow lymphoid cells but not on the surface IgM- normal BCP, despite the presence of detectable receptors on the surface IgM- cells. IL-4 did not stimulate proliferation of normal BCP, nor could it enhance the effect of recombinant IL-7 or low molecular weight B-cell growth factor. However, IL-4 increased the expression of surface IgM and surface Ig kappa on in vitro differentiated pre-B cells. Our collective results identify no role for IL-4 in the proliferation of normal or leukemic BCP, but identify a role in the enhancement of surface Ig expression during pre-B to B-cell differentiation. 
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone alters the hypothalamic effects of morphine in the rat. Female rats exhibit a generalized refractoriness to opiate stimulation during periods of steroid-induced LH secretion. In the present study we evaluated that role of LHRH in this steroid-induced effect on opiate-responsiveness. Central administration to ovariectomized rats of native LHRH or the LHRH agonist [Des-Gly10]LHRH ethylamide causes a dose-dependent refractoriness to the hypothermic effects of morphine. The potency relationship of these two LHRH agonists in antagonizing morphine's effect was consistent with their potency in inducing LH release. Treatment of ovariectomized rats with estradiol benzoate and progesterone in a regimen which induces a preovulatory-like LH surge, antagonized morphine-induced hypothermia, and the LHRH antagonist [D-Phe2, Pro3, D-Phe6] LHRH, reversed the effects of the gonadal steroids. These results indicate that the LHRH secretory dynamics associated with the preovulatory surge of LH may serve to modulate opiate responsiveness and thereby could serve to couple behavioral, sensory, and autonomic events with this neuroendocrine response to gonadal steroids. 
Meningioma: the role of a foreign body and irradiation in tumor formation. A case of meningioma is reported. At the age of 18 years, the patient had undergone insertion of a Torkildsen shunt through a posteroparietal burr hole for obstructive hydrocephalus secondary to a tumor of the pineal region, of which no biopsy had been made. After the hydrocephalus was relieved, he underwent irradiation of the tumor. Thirty years later, he was treated for an intracranial meningioma wrapped around the shunt. The tumor followed the shunt in all of its intracranial course. Microscopy disclosed pieces of the shunt tube within the meningioma. The role of a foreign body and irradiation in the induction of meningiomas is discussed, and a comprehensive review of the literature is presented. 
Epibulbar choristoma and microphthalmia: a report of two cases. The simultaneous ipsilateral presence of an epibulbar choristoma and microphthalmia has rarely been reported. We present two such cases, one of which is associated with bone formation, and we consider a possible pathogenetic mechanism. 
Latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flap for elbow extension. The latissimus dorsi mycocutaneous flap has developed a reputation for its versatility in both skin and soft tissue coverage and for restoration of elbow function in both flexion and extension. In a case presented, a large extra-abdominal desmoid was removed along with the entire deltoid and three-quarters of the triceps. The latissimus dorsi was elevated with a large overlying skin island and rotated on its neurovascular pedicle into the defect in the posterior shoulder and upper arm to replace the resected triceps and deltoid muscle, and to provide coverage in this region. 
Intensive therapy for small-cell lung cancer using carboplatin alternating with cisplatin, ifosfamide, etoposide, mid-cycle vincristine, and radiotherapy. Forty patients with small-cell lung cancer (31 patients with limited-stage [LS] disease, and nine patients with extensive-stage [ES] disease but of good performance status) have been treated with an intensive therapy composed of carboplatin alternating with cisplatin, ifosfamide, and etoposide with vincristine on day 14 of each carboplatin cycle. A maximum of six cycles were administered at 3 weekly intervals after the cisplatin combination and 4 weekly after the carboplatin combination. Prophylactic cranial irradiation was given with the first cycle of chemotherapy and thoracic irradiation with the third cycle. The median nadir for neutrophils was 0.47 x 10(9)/L and for platelets, 40 x 10(9)/L. Chemotherapy dosages were not reduced in response to myelosuppression, but treatment was delayed to allow blood count recovery. Sixty-eight percent of patients received all six cycles of chemotherapy, and there were four deaths associated with treatment-related neutropenia. Twenty-eight patients (70%) achieved a complete response (CR) when assessed 1 month after the end of treatment, and a further five patients (12.5%) had a partial response (PR). Median duration of CR was 16 months and of PR, 8 months. Cerebral metastases occurred in 20% of all patients and was the apparent sole site of relapse in 11% of the CR patients. The median survival of the total group was 14 months with an actual 2-year survival of 30% and a minimum follow-up of 28 months. 
Program to increase the accessibility of screening mammography--Rhode Island, 1987-1988. The Rhode Island Department of Health's (RIDH) Breast Cancer Screening Program (RIBCSP) was initiated in 1987; it includes a broad promotional effort targeting women and physicians, a strong quality-assurance program, reductions in the cost of the breast cancer screening examination, and a telephone appointment and tracking system for screening examinations and follow-up care. This report describes and summarizes an evaluation of the RIBCSP. 
The interferons. Mechanisms of action and clinical applications. The interferons (IFN) are one of the body's natural defensive responses to such foreign components as microbes, tumors, and antigens. The IFN response begins with the production of the IFN proteins (alpha, beta, and gamma), which then induce the antiviral, antimicrobial, antitumor, and immunomodulatory actions of IFN. Recent advances have led to Food and Drug Administration approval of five clinical indications for IFN. Interferon alfa is approved for hairy-cell leukemia, condyloma acuminatum, Kaposi's sarcoma in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, and non-A, non-B (type C) viral hepatitis. Interferon gamma has properties distinctive from those of IFNs alpha and beta and is approved as an immunomodulatory treatment for chronic granulomatous disease. Promising clinical results with IFNs have also been reported for basal cell carcinoma, chronic myelogenous leukemia, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, early human immunodeficiency virus infection, hepatitis B, and laryngeal papillomatosis. Future clinical uses of IFNs may emphasize combination therapy with other cytokines, chemotherapy, radiation, surgery, hyperthermia, or hormones. 
Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus in children. The symptoms, findings, associated conditions, and treatment of lichen sclerosus et atrophicus were studied in 10 girls and one boy. Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus is a benign but chronic condition of the anogenital area of girls and, less frequently, of boys. The characteristic lesions are hypo-pigmented plaques in a figure-of-8 pattern surrounding the vulva and anus and often involving the natal cleft. The affected hypopigmented skin is sharply demarcated from the normal skin. Hemorrhagic, bullous lesions are uncommon. Fissures and ulcers are seen on the labia, between the labia, and on the perineum, anus, and natal cleft in many children and on the glans penis in boys. Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus causes painful defecation and anal and vulval bleeding. In two patients, one girl and one boy, anal stenosis due to lichen sclerosus et atrophicus and laxative treatment developed. Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus mimics sexual abuse and has led to false accusation and investigations. The anogenital lesions cleared in three patients at the ages of 9, 11, and 12 years, but lesions can persist into adulthood. 
Subcutaneous sumatriptan in the treatment of headache during withdrawal from drug-induced headache. In a pilot study (5 patients) we investigated the effects of subcutaneous sumatriptan, a 5-HT1-like receptor agonist, on headache experienced during the withdrawal period of drug-induced headache. The pilot study indicated that the substance was effective mostly in patients who originally suffered from migraine. In a patient with tension headache the substance was less effective. In a second double-blind study on six migraine patients with severe drug-induced headache, the drug was highly effective in ameliorating headache and autonomic disturbances. Blood flow velocities measured in extracranial parts of internal and external carotid arteries by duplex-sonography and in middle cerebral and basilar arteries by transcranial Doppler showed no changes after administration of sumatriptan or placebo. This result suggests sumatriptan does not act primarily via constriction of the large cerebral arteries. 
Impaired diastolic function and coronary reserve in genetic hypertension. Role of interstitial fibrosis and medial thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in rats with genetic hypertension is accompanied by abnormal myocardial diastolic stiffness and impaired coronary reserve. Whether these functional defects are related to a structural remodeling of the myocardium that includes an interstitial and perivascular fibrosis, myocyte hypertrophy, and medial thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries is uncertain. To address these issues, 14-week-old male spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension and LVH were treated with low-dose (SLO group: 2.5 mg/kg/day, n = 11) or high-dose (SHI group: 20 mg/kg/day, n = 9) oral lisinopril for 12 weeks to sustain hypertension and LVH or to normalize arterial pressure and myocardial mass, respectively. When SHI and SLO groups were compared with age- and sex-matched 26-week-old untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats (n = 11) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (n = 9), we found 1) normalization of blood pressure (p less than 0.005) and complete regression of LVH (p less than 0.005) in the SHI group and no significant blood pressure or LVH reduction in the SLO group, 2) complete regression of morphometrically determined myocardial interstitial and perivascular fibrosis in SHI and SLO groups (p less than 0.025) associated with normalization of diastolic stiffness, measured in the isolated heart (p less than 0.025), and 3) regression of medial wall thickening of intramyocardial coronary arteries only in the SHI group (P less than 0.005), accompanied by a normalization of coronary vasodilator reserve to adenosine (p less than 0.005). Thus, interstitial fibrosis and not LVH is responsible for abnormal myocardial diastolic stiffness, whereas medical wall thickening of intramyocardial resistance vessels, influenced by arterial pressure, is associated with impaired coronary reserve. 
Certified cause of death in children and young adults with cerebral palsy. The status of 732 children suffering from cerebral palsy from the South East Thames region (births from 1970-9) was ascertained at the end of 1989, and copies of death certificates of the 73 children who have died, aged 4 weeks to nearly 16 years, were obtained. Infantile cerebral palsy (ICD Code 343-) was coded as the underlying cause of death in only 16 (22%) cases. On 28 (38%) certificates there was no mention of any form of cerebral palsy, the proportion in which it was not mentioned increasing with age. In 20 (28%) cases the coded underlying cause of death was respiratory, hence in published national statistics the number of deaths from respiratory causes is inflated. A postmortem examination was known to have been performed in 23 cases, but the recorded information was in some cases limited to a 'terminal event'. The importance of good data on the death certificate, and the significance of published national statistics, need to be communicated to all those involved in the certification process if cerebral palsy and other chronic conditions, which raise the relative risk of death, are not to be under-represented. 
Necrotizing myopathy with pipestem capillaries, microvascular deposition of the complement membrane attack complex (MAC), and minimal cellular infiltration. Three adult patients, two with undifferentiated connective tissue disease and one with carcinoma, had a distinctive pathologic reaction pattern consisting of necrotizing myopathy, minimal cellular infiltration, and a microangiopathy with thick "pipestem" vessels and microvascular deposits of complement membrane attack complex. Quantitative analysis revealed focal capillary depletion. This pattern represents an immune-mediated microangiopathy and is distinct from that observed in other inflammatory myopathies. 
Primary intracerebral osteosarcoma. A 64-year-old man was admitted because of a rapidly progressive left side hemiparesis. A computed tomography scan showed a right side intrathalamic mass, partially calcified. Surgical specimen proved to be an osteosarcoma. The patient died 3 days later from an acute myocardial infarct. Autopsy failed to discover any other significant lesion. A review of the literature disclosed that this case might be the second published primary intracerebral osteosarcoma and the first with immunocytochemical analysis. 
Echographic characteristics of ocular toxocariasis. Ocular toxocariasis most commonly presents as one of three distinct clinical syndromes: endophthalmitis, localized posterior granuloma, or peripheral granuloma. Using standardized echography, the authors studied 11 toxocariasis patients presenting with one of these syndromes. Common echographic findings were noted in ten of these patients, and included: (1) a solid, high-reflective peripheral mass, (2) a vitreous band or membranes extending between the posterior pole and the mass, and (3) a traction retinal detachment or fold from the posterior pole to the mass. These findings were present in patients presenting with leukocoria or endophthalmitis, as well as in patients in whom the peripheral nematode lesion could be visualized clinically. In combination with the history, clinical examination, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), standardized echography may be useful in establishing the diagnosis of ocular toxocariasis in cases of leukocoria in which nematode endophthalmitis is suspected. 
When migraine is more than a headache. Stroke in a young patient. Stroke rarely occurs in a young patient with migraine. Nevertheless, vascular headache can lead to catastrophic neurologic consequences, and severe headache associated with persistent neurologic deficits poses a complex diagnostic problem. 
The perception of angina in diabetes: relation to somatic pain threshold and autonomic function. Silent ischemia is common in diabetic patients with coronary heart disease. These patients may also have more subtle alteration in the perception of angina as reflected by prolongation of anginal perceptual threshold--the time from onset of 0.1 mV ST segment depression to the onset of chest pain during treadmill exercise. Silent ischemia may be associated with a generalized hyposensitivity to pain, although the pathophysiologic mechanism is obscure. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether diabetic patients with prolonged anginal perceptual thresholds are also hyposensitive to painful stimuli and to investigate whether this is associated with autonomic neuropathy. Nineteen diabetic and 25 nondiabetic patients with exertional angina were exercised on a treadmill to measure anginal perceptual threshold. Somatic pain threshold was measured by calf sphygmomanometry. The cuff was inflated rapidly until pain occurred, and six repeat inflations were done to test reproducibility. Because there was no significant difference between measurements (coefficient of variation = 0.156) the mean value for each patient provided a measure of somatic pain threshold. The diabetic group had a longer anginal perceptual threshold (138 +/- 64 seconds vs 34 +/- 51 seconds, p less than 0.001), which correlated positively with the somatic pain threshold (r = 0.5, p = 0.03); patients with more prolonged anginal perceptual thresholds tended to have higher somatic pain thresholds. In the diabetic group anginal perceptual (r = -0.3, p = NS) and somatic pain (r = -0.4, p = 0.05) thresholds tended to increase as the ratio of peak to minimal heart rate during the Valsalva maneuver fell below 1.21, but these variables were unrelated in the nondiabetic group. 
Effect of pregnancy and pain on cerebrospinal fluid immunoreactive enkephalins and norepinephrine in healthy humans. Endogenous spinal opioid or noradrenergic system activation may increase pain threshold during pregnancy and following a painful stress. Variation in spinal antinociceptive activity is also postulated to explain in part the large variability in postoperative opioid analgesic requirements. In this study, spinal noradrenergic and opioid activity, as reflected by the CSF concentrations of norepinephrine and immunoreactive enkephalins (total enkephalin-containing peptides), was determined in 58 women prior to surgery. The CSF concentration of these substances did not differ between pregnant and non-pregnant women. CSF norepinephrine tended to be greater in pregnant women who had experienced painful labor than in those who had not (1240 +/- 300 vs. 570 +/- 160 pmol/l; P = 0.056) and these women self-administered less morphine following cesarean section than those without labor pain (64 +/- 4 vs. 86 +/- 7 mg/24 h; P less than 0.01). However, CSF concentration of norepinephrine or immunoreactive enkephalins did not correlate with postoperative morphine use. These results suggest that spinal immunoreactive enkephalin and noradrenergic activity are not increased during pregnancy. However, pain may activate spinal noradrenergic pathways affecting pain sensation. 
Operative laparoscopy with the Nd:YAG laser in the treatment of endometriosis and pelvic adhesions. A multicenter, prospective trial was initiated to test the effectiveness and safety of the Nd:YAG laser equipped with artificial sapphire contact tips for the laparoscopic treatment of pelvic pain. Ninety-three women were enrolled in the study, 37 with endometriosis alone, 47 with endometriosis complicated by pelvic adhesions, and 9 women with adhesions alone. In over 90% of adhesions and 96% of endometriotic implants the Nd:YAG laser could be delivered to the site and be used to restore normal anatomy. The exception was deep bowel involvement with endometriosis, which was not treated. The majority of women had marked reduction or resolution of their symptoms for up to 12 months postoperatively. We conclude that the use of the Nd:YAG laser is an appropriate method to laparoscopically treat pelvic pain resulting from endometriosis or pelvic adhesions. 
Sinemet (CR4): an open-label study in moderately severe Parkinson's disease. Almost all patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease respond to levodopa and progress steadily, requiring an increased overall dosage with time. Sinemet CR4 offers a theoretically attractive method of achieving gradual sustained release of levodopa over time which may be more physiological to striatal dopamine receptors in the early stages of the disease. This study evaluated 20 patients with moderate to severe Parkinson's disease who were treated with Sinemet CR4 over a 1-year period. Eleven patients completed the full year on therapy, and nine subjects withdrew. Of the withdrawals, two subjects died from non-Parkinson's disease-related illness, three showed no therapeutic benefit, and four responded well for a minimal 6-month period, but then lost therapeutic benefit and developed more severe dystonias. A higher overall levodopa dosage was required by all patients, and side-effects of levodopa were still present in most patients. However, the nocturnal benefit of this long-acting preparation was observed by all the patients in the study. Slow onset of action of Sinemet CR4 resulted in early-morning immobility. Sinemet CR4 cannot replace standard Sinemet, but appears to be a useful form of adjunct therapy in selected patients. 
A randomized trial of chemotherapy followed by pelvic radiation therapy in stage IIIB carcinoma of the cervix. Because of the poor results in stage III B carcinoma of the cervix with standard treatment using radiotherapy alone, we designed a randomized trial to determine whether administration of chemotherapy before pelvic irradiation would improve survival. Between May 1984 and August 1986, 107 patients with previously untreated squamous cell carcinoma were randomly assigned, after stratification by age (less than 50 v greater than 50 years), extent of parametrial involvement (unilateral v bilateral), and lymphangiographic findings (negative v positive) to pelvic radiotherapy (RT; arm A) or three cycles of chemotherapy (CT; bleomycin, vincristine, mitomycin, and cisplatin [BOMP]), followed by the same radiotherapy regimen (CT + RT; arm B). The groups were balanced by age, performance status, extent of parametrial involvement, bulkiness of cervical disease, nodal involvement, and presence of hydronephrosis. Minimal follow-up is 34 months. A complete local response was observed in 32.5% of the patients in arm A and in 47% of the patients in arm B (P = .19). Overall 5-year survival rates were 39% for the RT arm and 23% for the CT + RT approach (P = .02). Toxicity was severe in arm B and included fatal pulmonary toxicity in four patients. Locoregional and distant failures were similar in both groups. We conclude that, despite a satisfactory response rate, neoadjuvant BOMP chemotherapy adversely affects survival in stage III B cervical cancer and is associated with unacceptable toxicity. 
A new surgical approach to subcortical lesions: balloon inflation and cortical gluing. Technical note. A cortical incision performed with inflation of a balloon to create a channel has been used in an approach to deep lesions with minimal damage to cerebral tissue. The balloon is slipped over a blunt needle and, once in place, is inflated through the needle. Postoperative sealing of the incision with fibrin glue avoids the subdural collection of cerebrospinal fluid such as is sometimes observed when the ventricle is opened during surgery. 
Endoscopic sonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Endoscopic sonography was used to examine the upper gastrointestinal tract of 550 patients referred for evaluation of abnormal findings seen on conventional endoscopy, upper gastrointestinal series, and CT. This essay illustrates the potential uses and limitations of this technique. Special emphasis has been given to the use of landmarks to facilitate orientation of the transducer in both the esophagus and stomach. Specific examples demonstrate involvement of individual layers of the bowel wall in both benign and malignant processes. It is stressed that this is a combined procedure requiring both an endoscopist and a radiologist. Endoscopic sonography is a valuable new technology with substantial potential in the evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract. 
Health implications of obesity. The health risks of obesity increase with its severity and reach significance at a weight greater than 20% above optimal, by using life insurance tables, or at a body mass index greater than 27. Risks include hypertension, insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, and, in some studies, high total-and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol. There is an increased mortality from endometrial cancer in women and from colorectal cancer in men. Chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia, sleep apnea, gout, and degenerative joint disease can occur with more severe obesity. The distribution of body fat is directly related to these health risks. Abdominal obesity is more dangerous than gluteal-femoral obesity because the amount of intraabdominal fat seems to determine much of the increased peril; therefore, risks of cardiovascular disease, stroke, hypertension, and diabetes increase with abdominal obesity, even independently of total fat mass. 
Good-quality semen recovered from a paraplegic man with physostigmine salicylate treatment. A case report. A subcutaneous injection of physostigmine was employed to treat paraplegic anejaculation. The sperm motility was greater than in previously reported studies in which electroejaculation techniques were used for seminal emission. 
Status epilepticus in benign rolandic epilepsy manifesting as anterior operculum syndrome. We report the fourth case of partial status epilepticus (SE) in benign epilepsy of childhood with rolandic spikes (BECRS). The child suffered long-lasting attacks involving the mouth and pharynx, clinically manifest as speech arrest, sialorrhea, and drooling. Both clinical and electroencephalogram (EEG) data were compatible with the diagnosis of BECRS. Only during SE was the clinical picture similar to that observed in the operculum or Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome. SE remission was obtained with the usual antiepileptic drug therapy (diazepam, clobazam, valproate). EEG records showed additional patterns of continuous spike-waves during slow sleep and specific inhibition and blocking of interictal centrotemporal spikes by mouth and/or tongue voluntary movements. 
Bleeding time prolongation and bleeding during infusion of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in dogs: potentiation by aspirin and reversal with aprotinin. Thrombolytic therapy is associated with a bleeding tendency that may be exacerbated by adjunctive antiplatelet agents. The effect of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) alone or in combination with aspirin on serial measurements of template bleeding time, ex vivo platelet aggregation and coagulation factors and the frequency of bleeding was studied in dogs. During infusion of rt-PA (15, 30 or 60 micrograms/kg per min for 90 min), a dose-related increase in bleeding time was observed. In a randomized blinded study of 25 dogs, the baseline bleeding time (mean +/- SD) was 3.5 +/- 1 min in control animals and 4 +/- 2 min after oral aspirin (15 mg/kg body weight). Infusion of rt-PA (15 micrograms/kg per min for 90 min) prolonged the bleeding time to a maximum of 15 +/- 12 min. In contrast, combined aspirin and rt-PA therapy produced an increase to greater than 30 min during infusion, reverting to 13 +/- 10 min within 2 h after cessation of infusion. Recurrent continuous bleeding from incision sites occurred in one of six dogs given aspirin alone, two of seven given rt-PA alone and all six dogs given both aspirin and rt-PA (p = 0.02). Bleeding time greater than 9 min correlated significantly with bleeding frequency (p less than 0.0001), with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 87%. Intravenous bolus injection of aprotinin (20,000 kallikrein inhibitor units/kg body weight) in six dogs given both rt-PA and aspirin produced a decrease in bleeding time from greater than 30 min to 9.5 +/- 9 min and resulted in cessation of bleeding. Thus, bleeding and bleeding time prolongation in this canine model are potentiated by a marked interactive effect of rt-PA and aspirin that is rapidly reversible. Template bleeding times may provide a useful quantitative index for monitoring the bleeding tendency associated with thrombolytic therapy. 
Whole-abdominal irradiation for the management of gastrointestinal and abdominal manifestations of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. A patient with a long-standing history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia developed weight loss and ascites secondary to gastric/small bowel infiltration and peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue. Moderate doses of radiation were very effective in controlling her gastrointestinal symptoms. In contrast to previous reports, clinical improvement after irradiation was a slow, gradual process, requiring 5 months for complete resolution of the patient's ascites. Hematologic suppression may be profound and careful attention to the rate of change in leukocyte and platelet counts is necessary to avoid severe toxicity. 
Abnormal methylation of the calcitonin gene marks progression of chronic myelogenous leukemia. The clinical aspects of disease progression in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) are well established, but the nature of the molecular events responsible is not known. We have previously reported a consistent pattern of novel sites of methylation in the 5' region of the calcitonin (CT) gene and other chromosome 11p loci in acute myelogenous and and lymphoid leukemias. In the present study, CT gene methylation patterns were investigated in peripheral blood from 51 patients with CML. Abnormal patterns were found in only 2 of 31 patients in chronic phase, but in 5 of 8 patients in accelerated phase, and in 11 of 12 patients in blast crisis (P less than .005). For one patient studied in blast crisis, abnormal CT gene methylation was found in the peripheral blast cells but not in the granulocytes. In two of three patients studied with CML and having normal peripheral cell patterns, abnormal patterns were found in marrow blast cells. In one patient, only partial normalization of the CT gene methylation pattern was seen after chemotherapy induction of a second chronic phase and the patient relapsed 5 months later. Our findings indicate that abnormal methylation of the 5' region of the CT gene is regularly a marker of disease progression in CML which may prove clinically useful. This abnormal methylation site is part of an imbalance in DNA methylation that may play a role in the progressive genetic instability which characterizes the advancing stages of CML. 
Obliteration of the fat surrounding the celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery is not a specific CT finding of carcinoma of the pancreas. Partial or complete obliteration of the fat surrounding the celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery on CT is considered so characteristic of pancreatic carcinoma that many consider it diagnostic. However, this finding may be present on CT scans of some treatable tumors. During a 2-year period, we retrospectively collected 10 cases of nonpancreatic tumors that obliterated the fat surrounding the celiac axis and/or superior mesenteric artery. Four patients had metastatic disease, three had lymphoma, two had primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma, and one had a diffuse retroperitoneal endocrine tumor. The scans were analyzed for presence, location, and morphology of the mass and biliary and/or pancreatic ductal dilatation. Of the patients with metastatic disease, three had focal, retropancreatic, periceliac masses without ductal dilatation. One had an infiltrative retroperitoneal process enveloping the pancreas and causing biliary dilatation. Of the patients with lymphoma, two had focal masses in the mesenteric root without ductal dilatation, and one had an infiltrative retroperitoneal process. Of the two patients with primary carcinoma of the small bowel, one had a mesenteric mass without ductal dilatation and the other had an infiltrative retroperitoneal process enveloping the pancreatic head and obstructing the ducts. The patient with the neuroendocrine tumor had an infiltrative retroperitoneal process enveloping the pancreas without ductal dilatation. Obliteration of the fat surrounding the celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery is not a specific CT finding of carcinoma of the pancreas. One cannot rely solely on its presence for the diagnosis of pancreatic carcinoma but should use other important findings such as a focal pancreatic mass and ductal dilatation. 
Combination of cimetidine and alginic acid: an improvement in the treatment of oesophageal reflux disease. Cooperative Oesophageal Group. A new chewable tablet containing cimetidine 200 mg and alginic acid 500 mg, at a dosage of one tablet four times daily, was compared in a 12 week randomised study with the standard dosage of cimetidine (400 mg four times daily) in the management of oesophageal reflux disease. The dose of cimetidine continued unchanged throughout the study but the dose of the combination drugs could be increased after six weeks to two tablets four times a day if response was unsatisfactory. A total of 312 patients had data suitable for analysis. Sixty three per cent of those on the combination tablet completed the study without increasing their dose - that is taking cimetidine equivalent to half the standard dosage used in the control group. The improvement in heartburn symptoms was significantly greater in the combination group than in the group taking full dose cimetidine. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups in healing and improvement of the appearances of oesophagitis after 12 weeks, and healing rates were as expected from previous studies. The addition of alginic acid to cimetidine in this fixed combination tablet is an improvement in symptomatic treatment of oesophageal reflux disease. 
Reducing the risk of stroke: identifying patients to refer for carotid endarterectomy. The most common causes of stroke are two diseases of aging: hypertension and atherosclerosis. Therefore, although stroke may occur at any age, the incidence is highest among the elderly population. Noninvasive efforts to reduce the risk of stroke in the elderly include control of hypertension and diabetes, smoking cessation, low-cholesterol dietary habits, and moderate exercise. Routine low-dose aspirin also provides some protective effect. High-risk patients (with asymptomatic high-grade stenosis, TIAs, or prior stroke) should be considered candidates for carotid endarterectomy in the absence of contraindications to surgery. 
Remission of hepatitis B-associated membranous glomerulonephritis in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection has been associated with several renal diseases, the most common being membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN). The role of concurrent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in affecting the course of the renal involvement is largely unknown. We report the case of a HIV-infected adult male with chronic HBV-associated MGN who had complete remission of the nephrotic syndrome associated with spontaneous seroconversion from hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive to HBeAg-negative. The present case illustrates that HIV infection does not preclude improvement of chronic HBV infection or an associated membranous nephropathy. Such improvement may be dependent on the ability of the host immune system to clear HBeAg. 
Tumor proliferative fraction in solid malignant neoplasms. A comparative study of Ki-67 immunostaining and flow cytometric determinations. Tumor proliferative fraction (TPF) has been shown to correlate with prognosis in some malignancies. A method for its determination that is practical, accurate, and reproducible is still being sought. In this comparative study of techniques, TPF values were determined in mirror-image samples of 126 consecutive solid malignant neoplasms using flow cytometry and immunostaining with Ki-67, a monoclonal antibody that recognizes an unknown nuclear antigen expressed during the entire cell proliferation cycle but not in resting cells. The mean TPF values for all cases were 19.5 +/- 15.6% (percentage of tumor cells stained) by Ki-67 (range, 1-86%) and 15.7 +/- 9.6% (S + G2M) by flow cytometry (range, 3-60%), which correlated significantly at r = 0.53 and P = 0.005. The correlation was less strong in tumors with low S-phase values (less than or equal to 10%, r = 0.28) than in tumors with intermediate and high S-phase values (r = 0.66). Ki-67 staining percentages did not correlate with patient age, sex, or tissue origin of the tumor. Ki-67 staining appears comparable to flow cytometry determination of TPF in solid malignancies with intermediate and high S-phase values. In tumors with low S-phase values, Ki-67 immunostaining shows higher TPF values, which perhaps reflect an increase in the proportion of G1-phase cells or dilutional effect of nonneoplastic cells in the tumors with low proliferative fraction. 
Effective thrombolysis without marked plasminemia after bolus intravenous administration of vampire bat salivary plasminogen activator in rabbits BACKGROUND. The use of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) in thrombolytic therapy is frequently associated with significant fibrinogenolysis. In contrast, recombinant vampire bat salivary plasminogen activator (Bat-PA) displays strict fibrin specificity, an attribute that could be desirable in a fibrinolytic agent. METHODS AND RESULTS. The efficacy and fibrin selectivity of Bat-PA was evaluated and compared with that of t-PA using a rabbit model of femoral arterial thrombosis. Administration of 8.1, 14, and 42 nmol Bat-PA/kg by bolus intravenous injection restored flow in 50%, 75%, and 80% of the rabbits, respectively. The incidence of reperfusion after bolus intravenous injection of 14 and 42 nmol t-PA/kg was 15% and 78%, respectively. The maximal femoral artery reperfusion flows were equivalent after treatment with 42 nmol Bat-PA/kg or 42 nmol t-PA/kg, but the time to reach maximal flow for Bat-PA was approximately one half that of t-PA. Furthermore, the rapid restoration of flow by 42 nmol Bat-PA/kg, in contrast to equimolar t-PA, was accomplished without fibrinogenolysis and with only small decreases in the plasminogen and alpha 2-antiplasmin levels. Equipotent doses of Bat-PA and t-PA both resulted in approximate 2.5-fold increases in the template bleeding times of aspirin-pretreated rabbits. The clearance of Bat-PA from rabbits exhibited biexponential elimination kinetics; approximately 80% was cleared by the relatively slow beta phase (half-life of 17.1 minutes). Overall, Bat-PA was cleared approximately fourfold slower than t-PA. CONCLUSIONS. Bolus intravenous administration of Bat-PA would facilitate prompt initiation of thrombolytic therapy, and the avoidance of plasminemia could result in fewer and less severe bleeding complications. 
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinic-initiated, Canadian multicenter trial of topical edoxudine 3.0% cream in the treatment of recurrent genital herpes. Canadian Cooperative Study Group. Treatment for recurrent genital herpes using edoxudine 3% cream for 5 days was evaluated in 200 patients in a randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinic-initiated trial. Lesion tenderness was predictive of and more sensitive and longer-lasting than the symptom of pain. Among patients receiving placebo, times to crusting (P = .043), cessation of investigator-observed signs (P = .005), lesion-associated signs (P = .02), and groin signs (P = .05) were longer in women. Edoxudine reduced viral shedding in men (mean 2.7 vs. 3.4 days, P = .009) and women (2.0 days vs. 3.5 days, P = .0001). Loss of investigator-observed signs (4.4 vs. 6.2 days, P = .002), investigator-observed lesion tenderness (P = .01), lesion signs (P = .02), groin adenopathy (P = .01), and tenderness (P = .01) occurred earlier in women taking edoxudine. Edoxudine was well-tolerated and reduced several signs of herpes in women. Its clinical role in recurrent genital herpes remains to be fully determined. 
Pathologic fibrosis and matrix connective tissue in the subaortic myocardium of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. To evaluate scar-type and matrix connective tissue and to assess their role in the diastolic dysfunction of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, surgically resected subaortic myectomy specimens and several autopsy hearts from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were studied. Eighteen specimens were differentially stained by a newly developed method that precisely determines relative collagen content; these tissues were compared with postmortem hypertrophied and normal control subaortic specimens. Quantitation revealed a 72% higher level (36.5 vs. 22.1 micrograms collagen/mg protein) of stainable collagen in the hearts with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy than in hypertrophied control hearts. The endocardial plaque was quantitated morphometrically, and it constituted only 4.6 +/- 1.7% of the total increased collagen content in the cardiomyopathy specimens. For the matrix studies, the cardiomyopathy specimens were stained by a silver impregnation technique that identifies connective tissue elements not normally visible with routine histologic methods. There was a marked increase in content of all matrix components, both in areas of pathologic scarring and in "normal" zones. Whorls of matrix connective tissue were noted in regions of myocyte whorls, as well as independent of them. Thus, these studies revealed a striking increase of both scar-type and matrix connective tissue in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The extensive scarring and the pronounced interstitial and intercellular matrix connective tissue may contribute to the increased ventricular chamber stiffness and impaired relaxation in this disease. 
Astroviruses as a cause of gastroenteritis in children. BACKGROUND. Infection with astroviruses has been associated with gastroenteritis in children, and serologic surveys indicate that this infection may be frequent. The importance of astroviruses as agents of gastroenteritis has not been shown in a controlled study, however. METHODS. We used monoclonal antibody-based enzyme immunoassays to detect astroviruses, enteric adenoviruses, and rotaviruses in stool samples obtained from age-matched children with and children without gastroenteritis. The samples were obtained in two studies, three years apart, among patients attending an outpatient clinic in Bangkok, Thailand. RESULTS. In the first study, astroviruses were detected in 8.6 percent (96 of 1111) of the children with gastroenteritis and in 2.0 percent (19 of 947) of the children without gastroenteritis. In the second study the rates were 8.6 percent (50 of 580) and 2.1 percent (11 of 512), respectively. For both studies combined, enteric adenoviruses were detected in 2.6 percent of those with gastroenteritis and in 0.5 percent of the controls, whereas rotaviruses were detected in 19 percent of those with gastroenteritis and in 1.0 percent of the controls. The clinical findings associated with astrovirus infection were similar to those associated with rotavirus infection, except for a trend toward greater dehydration in the children infected with rotaviruses. CONCLUSIONS. These two controlled studies involving a total of 3150 Thai children provide evidence that astroviruses are a common cause of viral gastroenteritis. Astroviruses were found in association with gastroenteritis more frequently than were enteric adenoviruses, and with nearly half the frequency of rotaviruses. 
Lipolytic response to metabolic stress in critically ill patients. OBJECTIVE: To measure whole-body lipolysis and fatty acid re-esterification in critically ill patients. DESIGN: The rates of appearance of glycerol and palmitic acid in blood plasma were measured by infusing stable isotope tracers [2H5]glycerol and [1-13C]palmitic acid, respectively. Energy expenditure was measured by indirect calorimetry. SETTING: Medical ICU of The University of Texas Medical Branch Hospital, a university-based referral center. PATIENTS: Five uninjured critically ill patients. Four patients were hospitalized because of respiratory insufficiency and one because of myocardial infarction. Three patients died during their hospitalization. INTERVENTIONS: Metabolic studies were performed in each patient after an overnight (12-hr) fast. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean +/- SE glycerol and fatty acid rates of appearance were 4.5 +/- 1.0 and 11.5 +/- 0.8 mumol/kg.min, respectively. The ratio of fatty acid to glycerol rate of appearance was 2.9 +/- 0.5. Resting energy expenditure was 132 +/- 6% of predicted. CONCLUSIONS: An accelerated rate of lipolysis is part of the metabolic response to severe stress, regardless of its etiology. Because the rate of fatty acid release far exceeded energy requirements, fatty acids that were not oxidized as fuel were re-esterified to triglyceride, presumably in the liver. 
Definition and measurement of fatigue. Although fatigue is a key component of the chronic fatigue syndrome, its definition and measurement remain relatively undeveloped. Most research on fatigue has been oriented towards work or performance of tasks and has involved laboratory studies of healthy individuals, while the study of fatigue as encountered in clinical settings has received minimal attention from investigators. This paper recommends that the natural history of chronic fatigue in its various clinical presentations be studied and that standardized assessment tools be used in this process. An investigation of the tools available for the assessment of fatigue yielded single-item, unidimensional, and multidimensional instruments. Additionally, the apparent association between affective illness and the chronic fatigue syndrome is addressed, and the fact that this relationship depends on issues of measurement is explored. 
Five-hour balloon inflation to resolve recurrent reocclusion during coronary angioplasty [published erratum appears in Cathet Cardiovasc Diagn 1991 May;23(1):71] A 63-year-old male presented with an acute inferior myocardial infarction with initial clinical reperfusion following thrombolysis. Due to recurrent reocclusion, emergency catheterization was performed, demonstrating a 90% stenosis in the mid right coronary artery. Angioplasty was complicated by multiple reocclusions, ultimately requiring 5-h autoperfusion balloon inflation to maintain patency. 
Symptomatic treatment versus combination chemotherapy for patients with extensive non-small cell lung cancer. In a randomized clinical trial, 87 patients with inoperable, extensive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were randomized to receive either combination chemotherapy (cisplatin at 70 mg/m2 intravenously [i.v.] on day 1 and etoposide at 100 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 and 200 mg/m2 orally on days 2 and 3) or symptomatic treatment. No statistically significant differences in survival time were found between the two treatment techniques. A major problem in the interpretation of the results was the use of semicurative radiation therapy (3000 to 4200 cGy) to the primary tumor and mediastinum, which was given with symptomatic intent. Three long-term survivors were seen in the latter group. 
Acute pseudobulbar or suprabulbar palsy. We studied 13 patients with supranuclear lower cranial nerve ("pseudobulbar" or "suprabulbar") palsy of acute onset. While seven patients had had a prior stroke, six patients had no history of stroke. Eight patients experienced a complete bilateral supranuclear lower cranial nerve palsy, which was isolated in five patients and associated with hemiplegia and with hemiparesis in three patients. Pseudobulbar palsy was partial in five patients. Only one patient had neuropsychologic impairment. The pseudobulbar features improved or recovered within a few weeks in all patients. The common characteristic of the lesions on computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging was the interruption of the corticonuclear pathways contrasting with marked sparing of the corticospinal pathways in both hemispheres. These lesions were either an opercular infarct, or a deep infarct in the corona radiata or internal capsule, or a lenticular hemorrhage. Hypertension was the most prevalent concomitant. Our findings suggest that acute pseudobulbar or suprabulbar palsy has rather stereotyped anatomic-vascular correlates and time course. 
Cell associated urokinase activity and colonic epithelial cells in health and disease. It is not known if urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) is associated with normal colonic epithelial cells. The aims of this study were to determine if normal colonic epithelial cells have uPA activity and whether this is concentrated at the cell membrane. In addition, the contribution of colonic epithelial cell associated uPA activity to disease related pertubations of mucosal uPA activity were examined. A highly enriched population of colonic epithelial cells was isolated from resected colon or biopsy specimens by an enzymatic technique. uPA activity was measured in cell homogenates by a specific and sensitive colorimetric method and expressed relative to cellular DNA. In two experiments subcellular fractionation of colonic epithelial cells was performed by nitrogen cavitation followed by ultracentrifugation over a linear sucrose gradient. The fractions collected were analysed for uPA and organelle-specific enzyme activities. Normal colonic epithelial cells have cell associated uPA activity (mean (SEM) 5.6 (1.1) IU/mg, n = 18). This colocalised with fractions enriched for leucine-beta-naphthylamidase and 5'-nucleotidase, markers of plasma membrane. uPA activities in epithelial cells from cancerous colons (9.8 (3.1) n = 7) or from mucosa affected by inflammatory bowel disease (3.8 (0.7) n = 15) were not significantly different from normal (paired t test), while that in epithelial cells from greatly inflamed mucosa was similar to that from autologous normal or mildly inflamed areas (4.4 (1.2) v 5.9 (3.6), n = 9). Thus normal colonic epithelial cells have cell associated uPA activity which is concentrated on the plasma membranes, suggesting the presence of uPA receptors. 
Formation of the tetraploid intermediate is associated with the development of cells with more than four centrioles in the elastase-simian virus 40 tumor antigen transgenic mouse model of pancreatic cancer [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Sep 15;88(18):8282] The development of pancreatic cancer in transgenic mice expressing the simian virus 40 tumor antigen placed under controlling regions of the elastase I gene is characterized by the sequential appearance of tetraploid and then multiple aneuploid cell populations. Pancreatic tissues from such transgenic mice were studied between 8 and 32 days of age. Virtually 100% of acinar cell nuclei had immunohistochemically detectable tumor antigen by 18 days. Tetraploid cells were demonstrated by DNA content flow cytometry by 20 days and were associated with the appearance of interphase cells that had 5-11 centrioles per cell in single thin sections of pancreatic tissue examined by electron microscopy. Mitotic cells also were observed that had 5 or more centrioles per cell that were incorporated into the poles of bipolar or at least tripolar spindle apparatuses. These observations indicate that formation of the tetraploid intermediate in the diploid----tetraploid----aneuploid sequence of pancreatic tumor formation in elastase-simian virus 40 tumor antigen transgenic mice is accompanied by the development of cells with 5 or more centrioles that can be incorporated into the poles of abnormal mitotic spindles. We speculate that cells with more than 4 centrioles are predisposed to the formation of multipolar mitoses that may yield daughter cells with chromosomal gains and losses, resulting in the subsequent development of aneuploid tumors. 
Receptor-mediated endocytosis of an extracellular steroid-binding protein (TeBG) in MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. Previous studies suggested that an extracellular steroid-binding protein, testosterone-estradiol-binding globulin (TeBG), can enter a variety of cells. Experiments were conducted to determine whether uptake of TeBG occurs by nonspecific fluid phase endocytosis or via a specific receptor-mediated process. In human breast carcinoma cells (MCF-7) maintained on serum-free medium, exposure to radiolabeled TeBG resulted in cellular uptake, which reached a plateau by 6 h and could be inhibited 80% by competition with unlabeled TeBG. Uptake was temperature dependent with cell-associated radioactivity at 37 C being 1.6-fold higher than at 4 C. Subsequent exposure of cells to pronase resulted in release of the cell-associated TeBG by 88% and 44% at 4 C and 37 C, respectively. After transfer to media devoid of TeBG, approximately 35% of cell-associated radioactivity was release into the medium at 37 C; it was not possible to distinguish whether this was released from the cell surface or from inside the cell. Investigation of the localization of TeBG-gold complexes by electron microscopy revealed that TeBG first binds to the plasmalemma. Within 15 min label appears in receptosomes, which fuse to form multivesicular endosomes. By 1 h all label is observed in multivesicular endosomes and lysosomes, most of which are in the Golgi zone. Localization of the internalized radioactivity using classical cell fractionation techniques showed it appears in a symmetrical band exhibiting the same buoyant density as the lysosomal marker acid phosphatase. The observations reported here show that: 1) TeBG binds to MCF-7 cells; 2) some of the bound TeBG is taken up via a mechanism with all the characteristics of receptor-mediated endocytosis; and 3) within these cells TeBG is localized in endosomes and lysosomes. 
Physical overdistension converts ventricular cardiomyocytes to acquire endocrine property and regulate ventricular atrial natriuretic peptide production. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is present in adult atria but at very low concentrations in normal adult mammalian ventricles. In the atria, the production of ANP is regulated by physical distension of the atrial wall. The same phenomenon was investigated in the ventricles of rats and men. Cardiac tissues from human ventricular aneurysm (n = 5), spontaneously hypertensive rats (n = 30), and rats that had overloaded left ventricles induced by surgery (n = 84) were studied with the methods of light microscopic immunocytochemistry, electron microscopic immunogold staining, and RNA-RNA tissue in situ hybridization. It was found that the levels of ANP gene expression, ANP immunoreactivity, and ANP-containing specific granules in the overburdened ventricles were elevated and their degrees of fluctuation were directly proportional to the force of physical distension applied to the ventricular cardiomyocytes. In rats, ANP mRNA and ANP immunoreactivity returned to the control level seven days after the ventricular overload was surgically released. The changes of ANP and its mRNA in the ventricles were related more closely to the changes of intraventricular pressure than to cardiocytic hypertrophy. In addition, ANP immunoreactivity was demonstrated in Purkinje cells and periarteriolar cardiomyocytes in the ventricles of normotensive rats. In conclusion, physical overstretch of the ventricle wall is likely to be the triggering factor affecting ventricular cardiomyocytes to acquire endocrine property, and also to regulate the production of ventricular ANP, thereby contributing to the control of the blood volume and the blood pressure. 
Vitamin K therapy in severe liver disease. A middle-aged man with parenchymatous liver disease and a decrease in vitamin K-dependent factors was given large doses of intravenous phylloquinone (10 mg/d for 20 days) without improvement in the synthesis of vitamin K-dependent factors. During subsequent liver transplantation, he exsanguinated. Although the exact role of over treatment with phylloquinone in this case is unclear, plasma levels of phylloquinone 300 times normal were attained after 5 days of treatment without effect on factors II, VII, IX, and X. Further therapy with vitamin K was unnecessary. 
Dichotic listening failure in dysphoric neuropsychiatric patients who endorse multiple seizure-like symptoms. In the present investigation, the dichotic word listening performance of a sample of 25 dysphoric neuropsychiatric patients who endorsed multiple partial seizure-like symptoms was compared with that of matched samples of normal controls and patients with mood disorders who did not endorse multiple seizure-like symptoms. Eighty percent of the patients who endorsed multiple episodic phenomena failed the dichotic listening task, compared with 8% of normal controls and 28% of patients with typical mood disorders. After treatment with carbamazepine, a subsample of polysymptomatic patients manifested significantly fewer seizure-like symptoms. This clinical improvement was typically associated with markedly improved dichotic listening performance in most cases. The results are consistent with our previous hypothesis that "subclinical" electrophysiological dysfunction may severely disrupt the normal transmission and processing of auditory information. Because it is sensitive to this type of presumed cerebral dysfunction and relatively specific, impaired dichotic listening performance is likely to be a useful clinical marker for this complex neuropsychiatric syndrome. 
Sciatic nerve entrapment in a child. Case report. A child was brought for evaluation of signs of unilateral chronic progressive sciatic nerve dysfunction found to be due to nerve entrapment in the thigh by a fibrovascular band. Sectioning of the band was followed by marked improvement in the nerve function. Compression by a band is a rare but treatable cause of sciatic neuropathy. 
Memory T cells represent the predominant lymphocyte subset in acute and chronic liver inflammation. T cells can be divided into two main phenotypic subpopulations-i.e., the CD45RA-positive (2H4-positive) "naive" subset and the CD45RO-positive (UCHL1-positive) "memory" subset. In light of this recent functional reinterpretation of T-lymphocyte subpopulations, we reinvestigated the composition of the inflammatory infiltrate in liver biopsy specimens from patients with acute and chronic hepatitis. In normal liver, the few scattered mononuclear cells present in portal tracts and in the intralobular parenchyma consisted of both CD45RA-positive (2H4-positive) naive and CD45RO-positive (UCHL1-positive) memory T cells. In inflammatory liver diseases, portal tract and periportal and intralobular areas of inflammation consisted virtually only of CD45RO-positive (UCHL1-positive) memory T cells, which strongly expressed the CDw29 (4B4) antigen, and the adhesion molecules LFA-1, CD2, LFA-3, CD44 and VLA-4 and the activation marker human leukocyte antigen-DR. These results indicate that activated memory T cells represent the predominant subpopulation of lymphocytes in areas of liver inflammation. Memory T cells strongly express various homing receptors and adhesion molecules, which probably allow them to accumulate at inflammatory sites and to strengthen interaction with target cells. Furthermore, the increased number of memory T cells with enhanced interferon-gamma production in areas of liver inflammation may contribute to the maintenance and up-regulation of immune responses occurring in inflammatory liver diseases. 
Intrauterine applications of the resectoscope. The resectoscope, used for decades in the surgical treatment of the bladder, has important applications for gynecologic procedures as well. The surgeon may either resect intrauterine disease or ablate the endometrium with the use of the resectoscope. Both of these outpatient procedures offer women significant reduction in risk and cost compared with extensive surgical procedures that they replace. The resectoscope delivers surgical energy of equal effect to the neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser at a fraction of the cost. Gynecologists who wish to learn this new technique must be familiar with hysteroscopy as well as fluid imbalance problems. 
Leu-22 (L60). A more sensitive marker than UCHL1 for peripheral T-cell lymphomas, particularly large-cell types. Paraffin-embedded sections of 77 peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) were stained with several monoclonal antibodies, including the preferential T-cell markers Leu-22 (L60[CD43]) and UCHL1 (CD45RO). The staining characteristics of L60 and UCHL1 were compared to determine the value of each in the immunophenotypic analysis of PTCLs. Lineage specificity was evaluated among 39 B-cell lymphomas and 33 cases of Hodgkin's disease (HD). L60 and/or UCHL1 stained 95% of PTCLs, whereas L60 and UCHL1 alone stained 90% and 69% of cases, respectively. L60 demonstrated significantly greater numbers of immunopositive tumor cells than UCHL1 in 37% of the PTCL cases, principally because of enhanced marking of large, neoplastic cells. UCHL1 was a better marker in only 10% of the PTCL cases. L60 stained 33% of B-cell lymphomas, usually small lymphocytic or lymphoplasmacytic types. UCHL1 stained only 8% of B-cell lymphomas, all large-cell types. L60 and UCHL1 stained Reed-Sternberg cells and variants in three cases of nodular sclerosing HD. These results suggest that both L60 and UCHL1 are useful markers of PTCLs in routinely processed tissue. L60 is a more sensitive marker of large neoplastic T-cells than UCHL1 but is less lineage-specific. These antibodies are most effective when used as part of a panel of monoclonal antibodies. 
Herniated cervical disk presenting as ischemic chest pain. Myocardial ischemia must be the first concern of every emergency physician in evaluating chest pain in the adult patient. Any suspicion of myocardial ischemia must be promptly evaluated and admitted. The American College of Emergency Physicians has recently published a standards document on the care of chest pain in the adult patient. The emergency physician must be familiar with this document. Once myocardial ischemia and other life-threatening causes are ruled out, one can consider that cervical disk disease may be the cause of chest pain. The authors present two cases of patients who presented to the Emergency Department with signs and symptoms consistent with cardiac ischemia. Both patients were found to have herniated cervical disks. Subsequent surgical repair completely relieved their symptoms. Evaluation of the literature reveals that this entity was well described from 1950 to the 1960s. Most recent discussions do not mention disk herniation as even an infrequent cause of chest pain. If there is no life-threatening disease present, one should consider cervical disk disease. 
Hemodynamic response with passive neck flexion in brain death. Twelve brain-dead patients admitted to the Department of Traumatology, Osaka University Hospital, from July 1988 to August 1989 were studied. A hemodynamic response elicited by passive neck flexion was observed in 10 of the 12 patients. After passive neck flexion, blood pressure began to rise, and the heart rate increased slightly. Blood pressure peaked about 2 minutes after the initiation of neck flexion and then decreased gradually to the baseline level within a few minutes. These responses were suppressed completely by administration of the ganglion blocker trimethaphan camsilate, which suggests that the efferent pathway of the response is mediated by the sympathetic nervous system. 
Tissue characterization of an unusual right atrial mass by magnetic resonance imaging. In a 70-year-old man who had angina, exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia, and presyncopal symptoms, transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography disclosed a large atrial mass that resembled a myxoma. Subsequent evaluation by magnetic resonance imaging identified the mass as an intracardiac lipoma attached to the posterior wall of the right atrium, a diagnosis that was confirmed by surgical intervention. Thus, the diagnostic utility of magnetic resonance imaging as an adjunct to echocardiographic evaluation of intracardiac masses was demonstrated. 
Posttraumatic intradiploic leptomeningeal cyst in an adult: case report. We report the case of an adult with a posttraumatic intradiploic leptomeningeal cyst that caused a circumscribed osteolytic skull lesion. Local pain, the only symptom of the lesion, regressed after surgery. Intradiploic leptomeningeal cysts must be distinguished from intradiploic arachnoid cysts, which are of congenital origin. 
Evidence for a new tumor-suppressor gene involved in gastrointestinal malignancies. Inactivation or loss of tumor-suppressor genes is believed to lead to the development or progression of malignancies. To determine whether a tumor-suppressor gene is located on chromosome 8, DNA was extracted from tumor and normal tissue of colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic specimens, and allele loss was investigated by Southern hybridization techniques with the chromosome 8 probe D8S7. Twenty-five percent of pancreatic carcinomas, 50% of gastric carcinomas, and 50% of colorectal carcinomas were found to have lost an allele on chromosome 8. These findings suggest the presence of a tumor-suppressor gene on chromosome 8, which is involved in colorectal carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, and pancreatic carcinoma. Definition of the frequency with which this tumor-suppressor gene is involved in gastrointestinal malignancies will await the study of many patients who are classified as informative and the use of multiple probes for chromosome 8. 
Physical activity and risk of developing colorectal cancer among college alumni. The assessment of physical activity at a single time to evaluate its association with cancer may be limited, since such a measure may not adequately reflect activity over the long term. To overcome this limitation, we studied 17,148 Harvard alumni aged 30-79 years who were followed prospectively for the occurrence of colon cancer (n = 225) and rectal cancer (n = 44) from 1965 through 1988. Physical activity, based on self-reported stair climbing, walking, and sports play, was assessed in either 1962 or 1966 (1962/1966) and again in 1977. The increased activity evaluated using either assessment (1962/1966 or 1977) taken alone was not associated with risk of colon cancer. However, alumni who were highly active (energy expenditure of greater than 2500 kilocalories/wk) at both assessments had half the risk of developing colon cancer relative to those who were inactive (less than 1000 kilocalories/wk) at both assessments (age-adjusted rate ratio = 0.50; 90% confidence interval = 0.27-0.93), whereas those who were moderately active (1000-2500 kilocalories/wk) at both assessments had an age-adjusted rate ratio of 0.52 (90% confidence interval = 0.28-0.94). We conclude that either consistently higher levels of activity are necessary to protect against colon cancer or combining two assessments increased the precision of physical activity measurement. We found no evidence that increased physical activity protected against rectal cancer. 
Clinical diagnosis for metastatic adenocarcinoma of spine of unknown origin. A comparative study. The diagnostic values of the presence of Virchow's node (VN) or rectal shelf (RS) in spinal metastasis from adenocarcinoma of unknown origin were studied prospectively in 60 patients during 1986-1988. These were compared with 14 cases with other malignancies of the spine and 37 controls with nonneoplastic spinal lesions. The diagnosis was confirmed by histologic study in all malignant cases. The results were analyzed by diagnostic test analysis and McNemar chi 2 testing. This yields 18.3-21.6%, 97.2-100%, and 92.8-100% sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value, respectively, for a positive test for VN and RS to differentiate significantly adenocarcinoma from other malignancies and control patients (P less than 0.005). These findings may thus be considered as a simple and economic guide for physicians to determine the proper approach to patients with a spinal lesion suspected to be malignant. 
Combined effect of neonatal sympathectomy and adrenal demedullation on blood pressure and vascular changes in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Neonatal sympathectomy using a combined treatment with antiserum to nerve growth factor and guanethidine during the first 4 weeks after birth was carried out in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Bilateral adrenal demedullation was performed in 4-week-old sympathectomized SHR and WKY rats. The development of hypertension in SHR was prevented by sympathectomy, but the blood pressure (BP) was still higher than in age-matched WKY rats. Demedullation reduced the BP of sympathectomized SHR to the same level as that of WKY rats. Heart rates of SHR and WKY rats were not affected by the treatments. Morphometric measurements of the mesenteric arteries showed that sympathectomy significantly reduced the medial mass in the mesenteric arteries of SHR, mainly through a reduction in the number of smooth muscle cell layers. In sympathectomized SHR, demedullation increased the lumen size of muscular arteries under maximally relaxed conditions, which might explain the further reduction in BP in these animals. Demedullation in sympathectomized SHR and WKY rats caused a decrease in smooth muscle cell layers in the superior mesenteric artery, but the same treatment resulted in a slight increase in the number of smooth muscle cell layers in the large and small mesenteric arteries of SHR and WKY rats. Adventitial area was increased in some mesenteric arteries of SHR and WKY rats by sympathectomy, and demedullation caused a further increase in the size of adventitia in WKY rats. Heart weight in SHR was normalized to the level found in WKY rats by sympathectomy and demedullation. We conclude that in sympathectomized SHR, the elevated BP was maintained by the adrenal medulla. 
Virological investigations of acute encephalopathy in India A total of 740 consecutive children aged between 6 months and 12 years who presented with acute encephalopathic illnesses during a three year period were assessed both clinically and by laboratory investigations. Cerebrospinal fluid was examined for the presence of cells or other abnormal substances, and any organisms were cultured. Blood examination included white cell count and estimations of haemoglobin, urea, glucose, and electrolyte concentrations and serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. A firm diagnosis was established in 278 patients (38%). Pyogenic meningitis (n = 134), measles encephalopathy (n = 38), and electrolyte imbalance (n = 23) were important causes in this group, cerebral malaria (n = 4) was uncommon and there were no cases of Reye's syndrome. The diagnoses of the remaining 462 were combined under the heading 'acute unexplained encephalopathy'. Altogether 394 of the 462 patients underwent virological investigations for arboviruses and 92 (23%) had one or more indicators of Japanese encephalitis. No other arboviruses could be isolated. Throat swabs from 187 patients with acute unexplained encephalopathy were studied on monkey kidney tissue cell lines of which 14 were positive (8%). These were identified as adenovirus, parainfluenza, influenza, poliomyelitis, Coxsackie, and echovirus; in two cases the virus was untypable. Japanese encephalitis is an important cause of acute childhood encephalopathy in this region. Clinical features of the illness may be mimicked by several disorders which require specific treatment. Thirty four of the 92 died (37%). 
Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy versus conservative treatment for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and bleeding esophageal varices. We performed endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) in the treatment of 37 patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The results were compared with those in another 33 HCC patients treated only conservatively, without EIS, during the same period. A majority of both groups died within 3 weeks after treatment. Comparing the two groups, there was no significant difference in fatal bleeding (66% vs 75%), but significantly fewer of the EIS patients died of the index hemorrhage (43% vs. 83%; p less than 0.01). Also, in the absence of portal vein thrombosis, EIS significantly reduced the risk of fatal bleeding (31% vs. 73%; p less than 0.25). The mean days of survival were 32 +/- 15 (range, 2 to 320) in the EIS group and 10 +/- 14 (range, 2 to 270) in the compared group (p less than 0.001). We conclude that EIS provides temporary control of acute esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with unresectable HCC. The major factors contributing to EIS failure are the lethal propensity of the underlying disease and portal vein thrombosis. 
An immunochemical and immunohistochemical study of aldolase isozymes in renal cell carcinoma. To assess changes in aldolase isozyme patterns (A, B, and C) in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) tissues and to evaluate whether serum aldolase A might be a useful marker for RCC, quantitative analysis by enzyme immunoassay and immunohistochemical localization were performed. Concentrations of aldolase A in RCC (7300 +/- 6300 ng./mg. protein n = 26) were significantly higher than those of normal cortex (720 +/- 410 ng./mg. protein, n = 14, p less than 0.01); concentrations of aldolase C in RCC (48.0 +/- 8.0 ng./mg. protein) were also significantly higher than those of normal cortex (8.7 +/- 4.7 ng./mg. protein, p less than 0.01). On the other hand, concentrations of aldolase B in normal cortex were 18,100 +/- 10,100 ng./mg. protein (n = 14), whereas the values in RCC were only 130 +/- 270 ng./mg. protein, a significant lowering (p less than 0.01). Immunohistochemically, aldolases A and C were found localized in all RCC tissues (n = 10); aldolase B was faintly stained in only a few tumor cells of two cases (20%). Levels of serum aldolase A were elevated (greater than 300 ng./ml.) in 30 (75%) of 40 patients with RCC as compared to three (6.3%) of 48 individuals with urogenital benign diseases and in seven (21%) of 34 cases with non-RCC urogenital malignancies. Since it is generally accepted that RCC are derived from renal proximal tubules, these findings indicate that aldolase B, the predominant isozyme in the normal case, changes into aldolases A and C during carcinogenesis and that serum aldolase A could be a new useful biomarker for RCC. 
Uhthoff's symptom in optic neuritis: relationship to magnetic resonance imaging and development of multiple sclerosis. Eighty-one patients with a first attack of isolated optic neuritis, 40 with Uhthoff's symptom (Group 1) and 41 without (Group 2), were studied. All had a neurovisual examination, 74 of 81 patients had the pattern visual evoked potential recorded at rest, and 43 had magnetic resonance imaging brain scans. The pattern visual evoked potential P100 latency was prolonged, Group 1 with a mean of 136 +/- 19 msec. Group 2 with a mean of 131 +/- 19 msec (control subjects, 102 +/- 5 msec; n = 84), and the P100 amplitude was reduced, without significant difference between the groups. Abnormal magnetic resonance imaging scans were present in significantly more patients in Group 1 (p less than 0.025). Treatment of optic neuritis with corticosteroids had no effect on the evolution or duration of Uhthoff's symptom. Overall, 35 of 81 (43%) patients, followed for a mean of 3.5 years, developed multiple sclerosis. The incidence was significantly greater in Group 1 (p less than 0.01). Uhthoff's symptom also correlated with a higher incidence of recurrent optic neuritis. We conclude that Uhthoff's symptom is a prognostic indicator for the early development of multiple sclerosis. 
An ectopic pregnancy in the upper retroperitoneum following in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer. Thirty-seven days after successful embryo transfer, a chorionic vesicle was recovered from the upper abdominal retroperitoneal space in a patient presenting with an acute life-threatening hemorrhage. This is the first case report of a retroperitoneal ectopic pregnancy which, although uncommon, is a potentially fatal complication of in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. 
Insulin and glucagon levels in fulminant hepatic failure in man. The behavior of insulin and glucagon and related metabolic substrates was assayed in plasma of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. All 12 subjects were provided the same nutritional support. High levels of insulin and glucagon were present at all times and no difference was observed between surviving patients (four) and those who died (8). Elevated values for branched-chain and aromatic amino acids as well as alanine were present. Statistically significant lower levels of aromatic amino acids and consequently a greater branched chain-aromatic amino acid ratio was found in surviving vs nonsurviving patients. A significantly greater level of alpha-fetoprotein was found in patients who survived as compared to those who died. 
Spinal cord stimulation for chronic, intractable pain: superiority of "multi-channel" devices. Spinal cord stimulation has evolved over the past 20 years into an easily implemented technique, with low morbidity, for the treatment of intractable, chronic pain in properly selected patients. We report our experience with a series of 62 patients implanted between 1983 and 1987, with percutaneous and laminectomy electrodes, and with single- and "multi-channel" (programmable, multi-contact) devices. Fifty had chronic, intractable low back and leg pain ("failed back surgery syndrome," lumbar arachnoid fibrosis), five had spinal cord injuries, and seven "peripheral" pathology or stump pain. Statistical analysis of these and other patient characteristics and technical factors was undertaken to identify predictors of outcome. All patients were interviewed by a disinterested third party at a mean of 2.14 years following implantation. A majority of patients reported at least 50% sustained relief of pain and indicated that they would go through the procedure again for the same result. There was corresponding improvement in ability to perform various everyday activities, and decrease in use of analgesics. Ten of 40 failed back patients who were disabled before the procedure returned to work postoperatively. Superposition of stimulation paresthesias upon a patient's topography of pain was found to be a statistically significant predictor of successful relief of pain, by linear regression methods. Univariate and multivariate analysis of patient characteristics and technical factors as predictors of outcome demonstrated significant advantages for female patients, and for patients implanted with "multi-channel" devices. With these devices, electrode geometries with central cathode(s) flanked by rostral and caudal anode(s) were favored disproportionately. Technical improvements in implanted spinal cord stimulation devices, in particular the development of multi-contact percutaneous electrode arrays and supporting programmable electronics, have significantly improved clinical results. 
Primary repair of colon injuries in a developing country. Because there are several specific disadvantages to a colostomy in a developing country, primary repair for colon injury was electively performed. Sixty-one consecutive patients with colon injury were seen between 1978 and 1989 and 57 of these (93 per cent) underwent primary repair. In four a colostomy was constructed. Emergency repair was carried out regardless of site or mode of injury, presence of hypotension or peritoneal contamination. There was one death unrelated to anastomotic complications and one anastomotic leakage. The faecal fistula closed spontaneously in 4 weeks. The wound infection rate was 10 per cent. These data support the emerging view that primary repair of colon injury is the management of choice. 
Reducing postischemic paraplegia using conjugated superoxide dismutase. Paraplegia after thoracic aortic aneurysm repair has an incidence of 2.2% to 24%. Oxygen-derived free radicals after reperfusion of an ischemic spinal cord may be partly responsible for neuronal destruction. We studied the effects of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD), a free radical scavenger, as a way of increasing spinal cord tolerance to ischemia. Thirty rabbits underwent 40 minutes of aortic occlusion (a known model of paraplegia). Ten of these animals received 25,000 U/kg of PEG-SOD 24 hours before aortic occlusion and two additional doses of 10,000 U/kg, one before and one subsequent to spinal ischemia. Ten animals received superoxide dismutase in the same dosages as those receiving PEG-SOD. Ten control animals received placebo. All animals were studied for 96 hours, at which time a final neurological examination was performed and the results were recorded. Of the 10 animals treated with PEG-SOD, 2 were completely paralyzed whereas 8 had less (7) or no (1) neurological impairment. Eight of the 10 control animals and 9 of the 10 animals receiving superoxide dismutase were completely paralyzed. None of the control animals or animals receiving superoxide dismutase had a normal neurological examination (p less than or equal to 0.05). Treatment with PEG-SOD before and during occlusion increased the rabbit spinal cord tolerance to a 40-minute ischemic insult. Scavenging free radicals may lessen experimental spinal cord injury. 
Estramustine binding protein in human brain-tumor tissue. Estramustine, an estradiol-17 beta and nornitrogen mustard complex, is used in the treatment of advanced prostatic carcinoma. A specific estramustine binding protein (EMBP) is important for its cytotoxic action, and the presence of EMBP has previously been demonstrated in rat and human prostatic cancer tissue. Significant levels of EMBP were detected by radioimmunoassay in human brain-tumor tissue. The EMBP concentrations (expressed as ng/mg protein) in 16 astrocytomas (mean 2.6 ng/mg, range 0.5 to 6.2 ng/mg) and seven meningiomas (mean 5.1 ng/mg, range 0.3 to 9.3 ng/mg) were significantly higher than that found in four samples of epileptic brain (mean 0.7 ng/mg, range 0.5 to 1 ng/mg) and 18 samples of normal brain (mean 0.5 ng/mg, range 0.2 to 1.0 ng/mg). The uptake, metabolism, and antiproliferative effects of the prostatic anticancer agent estramustine have been previously demonstrated in cultured glioma cells. The presence of EMBP may suggest a selective binding and effectiveness in human brain-tumor tissue. 
The disappearance of the "cold patch" in recovered migraine patients: thermographic findings. In a previous paper we suggested that the vascular cold patch may be a useful prognostic index to followup migraine patients. Considerable criticism against our contention has been raised by Swerdlow and Dieter (Headache 29:562-568, 1989, ref. 1), who claim that the cold patch constitutes a "fixed geography" of the vasculature of migraine patients. In the present paper we replicate and extend our previous findings reporting the results of facial thermography in a sample of 246 consecutive migraine patients. Of these the 206 exhibiting a typical cold patch or a significant asymmetry in the forehead thermal dissipation were admitted to prophylactic treatment (beta blocker or calcium channel blocker). The thermography was performed at entry in the study and after six months of active treatment. The clinical outcome was compared to the thermographic findings. The patients were subdivided in three classes on the basis of the clinical outcome. Among the 136 patients who experienced complete or substantial relief from headache the cold patch disappeared or markedly improved in 85% of the cases. In the 46 patients with partial relief the thermogram showed an improved pattern in 48% of cases, most of the time of smaller extent than in the previous class. In 24 patients we observed no clinical improvement. Among these the thermogram remained unchanged in 85% of cases. Taken together these findings corroborate our previous suggestion that thermography is useful to monitor the clinical course of the disease. One additional suggestion from the present data is that thermography closely parallels the clinical course so as to represent a useful criterion for the decision of discontinuing the therapy. 
Biochemical and molecular analysis of cytochrome c oxidase deficiency in Leigh's syndrome. We studied three patients with Leigh's syndrome (LS) and cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency. Biochemical studies in brain, muscle, heart, liver, kidney, and fibroblasts disclosed a generalized COX deficiency. Kinetic studies of COX activity in brain mitochondria showed a low Vmax and a normal Km for reduced cytochrome c. Immunologic studies showed decrease of all COX subunits studied, without a specific defect of any one of them. Southern blot analysis excluded large deletions of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) but revealed a generalized increase in mtDNA quantity. Although Northern blot analysis showed no alteration in the 12 COX subunit mRNAs studied, two of three patients showed a decreased steady state rate of COX transcription in brain. COX deficiency in LS thus appears to be related to a decreased amount of otherwise normal COX holoenzyme. 
Balloon dilatation of restrictive interatrial communications in congenital heart disease. An adequate interatrial communication is necessary for survival in several forms of congenital heart disease. Three children are presented in whom blade atrial septostomy proved either technically impossible or failed to achieve adequate interatrial communication. In all three an adequate communication was obtained by a balloon dilatation technique similar to that used for pulmonary valve dilatation. In one critically ill infant with mitral atresia the procedure was life saving. 
Effect of enlarged adenoids on arterial blood gases in children. The enlarged adenoid is a common disorder in children resulting in nasopharyngeal obstruction. Many authors suggest that increased nasal resistance to respiration may cause disturbances in the pulmonary ventilation and carry the risk of obstructive sleep apnoea and/or cardiopulmonary syndrome. This study comprised 30 children complaining of long-standing nasal obstruction due to enlarged adenoids. Adenoidectomy was performed and the arterial blood gases were measured before and one month after surgery. Twelve normal children were also included as controls. Statistical evaluation of the results showed that O2 saturation and arterial O2 tension (PaO2) were significantly low before the operation, and increased significantly after surgery. Arterial CO2 tension (PaCO2) was insignificantly low before operation, but decreased significantly after adenoidectomy. It was concluded that enlarged adenoid may be associated with ventilatory impairment which is reversible after adenoidectomy. 
Ursodeoxycholic acid for the treatment of home parenteral nutrition-associated cholestasis. A case report. Severe cholestasis associated with long-term home parenteral nutrition is rare, and no treatment is known to be effective. This study shows a case of a patient who developed jaundice while receiving long-term home parenteral nutrition. Causes of jaundice, other than the patient's parenteral feedings, were excluded. The patient's jaundice did not respond to alterations in his parenteral feeding program or to metronidazole. Ursodeoxycholic acid (600 mg/day) led to a prompt and sustained improvement in his hyperbilirubinemia. When ursodeoxycholic acid was stopped, the patient again became jaundiced, but this resolved with reinstitution of ursodeoxycholic acid. This case suggests that ursodeoxycholic acid may be an effective treatment for home parenteral nutrition--associated cholestasis and should be evaluated further in patients with cholestasis associated with parenteral feeding. 
Gastric collision tumor (carcinoid and adenocarcinoma) with gastritis cystica profunda. We report a rare case of gastric collision tumor (carcinoid and adenocarcinoma) with gastritis cystica profunda that developed in a 49-year-old Japanese man. Early gastric cancer (moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma) was present at the edge of an ulcer in the posterior wall of the upper gastric body. In addition, a carcinoid tumor was found adjacent to adenocarcinoma. This tumor displayed ribbonlike or trabecular patterns, and numerous constituent cells were positive for the argyrophil reaction with Grimelius' stain and serotonin. Electron microscopic features of this tumor confirmed typical carcinoid. There was no merged appearance between both tumors, suggesting collision-type tumor. 
Value of planar 201Tl imaging in risk stratification of patients recovering from acute myocardial infarction. Although exercise ECG testing has been shown to have important prognostic value after acute myocardial infarction, exercise 201Tl scintigraphy offers several potential advantages, including: 1) increased sensitivity for detecting residual myocardial ischemia; 2) the ability to localize ischemia to a specific area or areas subtended by a specific coronary artery; 3) the ability to identify exercise-induced left ventricular dysfunction, which is manifested by increased lung uptake or transient left ventricular dilation; and 4) more reliable risk stratification of individual patients. The more optimal prognostic efficiency of 201Tl scintigraphy partially results from the fact that the error rate in falsely classifying patients as low risk is significantly smaller with 201Tl scintigraphy than with stress ECG. Because of these substantial advantages, there seems to be adequate rationale for recommending exercise perfusion imaging rather than exercise ECG alone as the preferred method for evaluating mortality and morbidity risks after acute myocardial infarction. 
A prospective evaluation of myocardial contusion: correlation of significant arrhythmias and cardiac output with CPK-MB measurements. Over a nine-month period, patients with chest trauma were prospectively evaluated for myocardial contusion. Ninety-two patients with evidence of anterior chest trauma were entered into the study and had 1) an ECG on admission and daily for three days; 2) monitoring of the myocardial band fraction of creatine phosphokinase (CPK-MB) on admission and every eight hours for 24 hours; 3) continuous electrocardiographic Holter monitoring for three to five days; and 4) noninvasive pulsed-Doppler cardiac output measurements daily for three days. Twenty-three patients developed 25 significant arrhythmias (SARRs): 1 atrial fibrillation, 1 AV dissociation, 5 supraventricular tachycardias, and 18 paroxysmal ventricular tachycardias. Cardiac outputs were significantly higher in those patients without SARRs. The CPK-MB levels correlated with the SARRs but were neither sensitive nor specific. No patients required specific therapy and none developed adverse sequelae of the SARRs. We conclude that 1) CPK-MB monitoring should not be routinely used for screening and diagnosis; 2) continuous arrhythmia monitoring deserves further clinical investigation but not routine application; 3) stable patients at risk for myocardial contusion should be monitored for 24 hours; and 4) the Abbreviated Injury Score for "minor" myocardial contusion should be deleted for purposes of ISS tabulation. 
Clipping of an aneurysm 20 years after encasement with methyl methacrylate. Case report. A variety of agents have been used to coat aneurysms as an alternative to clipping. These agents were employed more frequently prior to the routine use of the operating microscope and the presently available variety of aneurysm clips. One such coating agent is methyl methacrylate. This report describes a patient with an anterior communicating aneurysm that rebled 20 years after being encased in methyl methacrylate. At operation, the pulsating aneurysm had eroded the adjacent layer of methyl methacrylate, creating a small intervening space. This space allowed removal under the microscope (with a high-speed air drill and a diamond bit) of the methyl methacrylate from the anterior cerebral arteries and aneurysm, exposing it for definitive clip placement. The feasibility of clipping encased aneurysms is discussed. 
A tRNA(Lys) mutation in the mtDNA is the causal genetic lesion underlying myoclonic epilepsy and ragged-red fiber (MERRF) syndrome. Skeletal muscle mtDNA of three patients with mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, characterized clinically by myoclonic epilepsy and ragged-red fiber (MERRF) syndrome, has been sequenced to determine the underlying molecular defect(s). An A-to-G substitution of nt 8344 in the tRNA(Lys) gene, a substitution suggested to be associated with MERRF encephalomyopathy, was detected in these patients. Abnormal patterns of mitochondrial translation products were observed in the skeletal muscle of patients, consistent with the expected consequential defect in protein synthesis. The genealogical studies of the three patients, as well as mtDNA from one published MERRF patient and from nine other normal and disease controls, revealed that the tRNA(Lys) mutations in the MERRF patients have arisen independently. These observations provided evidence that the base substitution is a causal mutation for MERRF. 
Screening for dementia and investigating its causes. OBJECTIVE: To examine, from the perspective of primary care physicians, the value of mental status findings and ancillary tests in diagnosing dementia or its causes. DATA SOURCES: Studies identified using MEDLINE and bibliographies of pertinent articles. STUDY SELECTION: Selection based on availability of information on specific findings or tests, the criterion standard used to confirm diagnoses, the disease spectrum, and the richness of the reported data. DATA EXTRACTION: Data collected on sensitivity and specificity. In many cases, the originally reported data are re-analyzed to illustrate the usefulness of alternative cut-off values or to answer specific clinical questions. Likelihood ratios estimated to summarize test results. DATA SYNTHESIS: Probability of dementia is greatly reduced (likelihood ratio, 0.06 to 0.2) when either normal serial 7s, 7-digit span, 3-item recall, or clock drawing test results are obtained; abnormal results only moderately increase the odds of disease. Low (less than or equal to 20), intermediate (21 to 25), or high (greater than or equal to 26) scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) increase (likelihood ratio greater than or equal to 8.2), have little effect (likelihood ratio, 1.3 to 2.4), or decrease (likelihood ratio, 0.06 to 0.1) the odds of disease. The usefulness of tests to investigate the cause of dementia varies depending on the pretest probability of the specific condition. CONCLUSIONS: Several useful methods exist to screen for cognitive impairment, and clinicians need to be familiar with the strengths and limitations of their preferred screening methods. In investigating the cause of dementia, routinely obtaining a VDRL test, cerebral imaging studies, serum cobalamin level, or folate level is unwarranted. 
Fluticasone propionate in Crohn's disease. Fluticasone propionate, a topically active corticosteroid of low systemic bioavailability after oral administration, has been used in a pilot study for the treatment of mild and moderately active Crohn's disease. Twelve patients received oral fluticasone propionate for three weeks, and the effects were monitored using the Crohn's disease activity index and by 111In granulocyte scanning, assessing inflammation from scan appearances, four day faecal excretion of radioactivity, and whole body excretion of radioactivity. All patients completed the trial. No serious side effects were reported. There was a significant fall in Crohn's disease activity index values over the three week treatment period (193 (84) v 122 (51), p less than 0.01). 111In leucocyte scan images were improved (seven patients) or unchanged (five patients). There was a significant fall in excretion of injected radioactivity calculated from whole body data (28 (21)% v 14 (0.7)%, p less than 0.05). There were no changes in plasma cortisol values, either basal or synacthen stimulated. Fluticasone propionate is a promising therapeutic agent for Crohn's disease that offers the possibility of controlling inflammation without inducing systemic corticosteroid side effects and which merits evaluation in a double blind trial versus conventional corticosteroids. 
Intravenous phentolamine test: diagnostic and prognostic use in reflex sympathetic dystrophy. In some patients, ongoing and evoked neurogenic pain is relieved by pharmacological or destructive block of the sympathetic innervation of the affected part. In others, sympatholysis is ineffective. The present report shows that these two groups of patients can be distinguished by a safe and simple diagnostic test. Individuals in whom the pain was transiently relieved by intravenous phentolamine (Regitine) were very likely to respond favourably to subsequent sympatholytic treatment with i.v. regional guanethidine. Individuals in whom the phentolamine test was negative did not enjoy pain relief from this type of sympatholysis. 
The moving, projected, annual total. A kinetic prognostic entity. A simple, inexpensive method of prognostically calculating and graphically recording annual case loads of the various deaths investigated by today's medicolegal offices is presented. Graphic depiction of the numerical data provides a convenient way to compare current prognostications with the records of preceding years. 
Study of brain electrolytes and organic osmolytes during correction of chronic hyponatremia. Implications for the pathogenesis of central pontine myelinolysis. Osmotic injury induced by rapid correction of severe chronic hyponatremia has been implicated in the development of central pontine myelinolysis. Organic osmolytes known previously as "idiogenic osmoles" accumulate intracellularly to protect cells from osmotic injury. We investigated the changes of these organic osmolytes as well as electrolytes in the brain during the induction and correction of chronic hyponatremia. Using 1H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC, we found that in rats with chronic hyponatremia (3 d, serum sodium = 109 +/- 3 meq/liter), brain concentrations of myoinositol (41%), glycerophosphorylcholine (45%), phosphocreatine/creatine (60%), glutamate (53%), glutamine (45%), and taurine (37%) were all significantly decreased compared with control values (percentage control value shown, all P less than 0.01). The contribution of measured organic osmolytes and electrolytes to the total brain osmolality change was 23 and 72%, respectively. With rapid correction by 5% NaCl infusion, significant brain dehydration and elevation of brain Na and Cl levels above the normal range occurred at 24 h. These changes were not seen with slow correction by water deprivation. Reaccumulation of most organic osmolytes except glycerophosphorylcholine is delayed during the correction of hyponatremia and is independent of the correction rate of serum sodium. It is concluded that: most of the change of brain osmolality in chronic hyponatremia can be accounted by the changes in organic osmolytes and brain electrolytes; and rapid correction of hyponatremia is associated with an overshoot of brain sodium and chloride levels along with a low organic osmolyte level. The high cerebral ion concentrations in the absence of adequate concentrations of organic osmolytes may be relevant to the development of central pontine myelinolysis. 
Interleukin-2-induced lung injury is mediated by oxygen free radicals. Interleukin-2 therapy leads to respiratory dysfunction caused by increased vascular permeability. This study examines the role of oxygen-derived free radicals (OFR). Sheep (n = 6) with chronic lung lymph fistulae were given interleukin-2, 10(5) units/kg, as an intravenous bolus. The mean pulmonary artery pressure rose from 13 to 23 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) at 1 hour and remained elevated for 4 hours, although the pulmonary artery wedge pressure was unchanged at 4 mm Hg. Arterial oxygen tension fell from 88 to 77 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). Lung lymph flow rose from 2.2 to 6.4 ml/30 min (p less than 0.05) at 3 hours. This rise coincided with an increase in the lymph/plasma protein ratio from 0.67 to 0.77 (p less than 0.05) and lymph protein clearance from 1.5 to 4.4 ml/30 min (p less than 0.05), indicating increased lung microvascular permeability. Interleukin-2 led to transient increases in plasma thromboxane B2 from 168 to 388 pg/ml (p less than 0.05) and lung lymph thromboxane B2 from 235 to 694 pg/ml (p less than 0.05). The leukocyte count fell from 8156 to 4375/mm3 (p less than 0.05) primarily caused by a 78% drop in lymphocyte count. Platelet count declined from 292 to 184 X 10(3)/mm3 (p less than 0.05). Pretreatment with the hydroxyl radical scavenger dimethylthiourea, 1 gm/kg, intravenously, (n = 6) prevented the interleukin-2-induced increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure, lung lymph flow, lymph/plasma protein ration, lymph protein clearance, and thromboxane B2 levels in plasma and lung lymph. The arterial oxygen tension decreased from 85 to 80 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). The leukocyte count declined from 7854 to 6229/mm3 (p less than 0.05), but this was not as low nor as prolonged as the interleukin-2 group. Further, the decrease in platelet count was prevented (p less than 0.05). Interleukin-2 incubated with sheep or human leukocytes led to a dose-dependent increase in intracellular hydrogen peroxide production by neutrophils as measured by flow cytometry of dichlorofluorescein oxidation. These data indicate that interleukin-2 stimulates OFR generation and that OFR moderate the interleukin-2-induced increased lung permeability. 
Alterations in circulating lymphocyte number and function after circulation through colorectal carcinomas. Thirty-six patients undergoing curative resection for colorectal cancer were studied to determine the effect of the tumor on lymphocytes circulating through it. In the venous blood draining the tumor, there was an increased percentage of natural killer (NK) cells (p = 0.001), no difference in overall NK cell function, and decreased T-lymphocyte activation (p = 0.035) and proliferation (p = 0.002) compared with the lymphocytes in the arterial blood supplying the tumor. There were no significant differences in the control group of 16 patients. Local effects of colorectal cancer may include the ability to down-regulate T and NK cell function while increasing the number of NK cells. Means of enhancing antitumor activity therapeutically in an adjuvant setting, possibly through the portal vein during surgery, need to be considered, especially in the light of the immunosuppressive effects of surgery. 
Conventional therapy for idiopathic nephrotic syndrome in children. In children, the most frequent type of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome is the minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). Its treatment is aimed at inducing remission, preventing relapses and avoiding side-effects. Minimal-change disease is responsive to immunosuppressive therapy. The conventional treatment consists of glucocorticosteroids and the most widely used derivative is prednisone. Initial treatment should be intensive, for example, prednisone for 12 weeks, in order to reduce the risk of subsequent relapse. Treatment of relapses should be standardized in order to categorize the patient's disease for further treatment. If a frequent relapser develops signs of steroid toxicity, alkylating drugs should be prescribed: cyclophosphamide or chlorambucil for eight weeks for frequent relapsers who are not steroid-dependent; cyclophosphamide for 12 weeks for those who are. In steroid-resistant cases, a renal biopsy is indicated and treatment should be administered according to histological changes. 
Intravenous adenosine in the emergency department management of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. STUDY PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of adenosine in the treatment of emergency department patients with spontaneous paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT). DESIGN: An eight-month prospective outcome study. POPULATION: Patients 16 or more years old with PSVT by surface ECG criteria. Patients were excluded if there was clinical or hemodynamic evidence of hypoperfusion. MEASUREMENTS: Patient age, sex, PSVT rate, pretreatment blood pressure, history of cardiac disease, chronic drug therapy, and response to IV adenosine. RESULTS: Twenty-three patients with 27 episodes of suspected PSVT met inclusion criteria. After IV adenosine, two patients were found to have atrial flutter, and one was found to have ventricular tachycardia. Twenty-four episodes of PSVT were diagnosed in the remaining 21 patients. There were eight male and 13 female patients with a mean age of 51 +/- 19 years (range, 16 to 80 years). Sixteen patients related a history of cardiovascular disease. The mean QRS rate during PSVT was 181 +/- 23. Twenty-three of 24 episodes (96%) were converted to sinus rhythm within 20 to 45 seconds of adenosine therapy. However, 13 of 23 of initial conversions (57%) were followed by recurrence of PSVT within five minutes. All 13 recurrences required therapy with other antiarrhythmic drugs for conversion to and maintenance of sinus rhythm. Complications of adenosine were noted in only four patients and were transient and clinically unimportant. CONCLUSION: IV adenosine effectively terminates PSVT in ED patients with spontaneous PSVT; recurrence of PSVT after adenosine is common in the ED population and should be treated with other antiarrhythmic agents, not repeated doses of adenosine; adenosine is useful in the differential diagnosis of tachyarrhythmias; and doubling the initial dose of adenosine to 12 mg would increase the likelihood of conversion with the first dose. 
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast: mammographic appearance and histologic correlation. The mammograms and histologic slides of 58 cases of atypical hyperplasia (AH) of the breast were retrospectively reviewed to determine the geographic correlation (direct, near, or remote) between mammographic abnormalities (if present) and the histologic findings. A direct mammographic-histologic correlation was found in 24 of the 58 cases (41%), near correlation in 15 (26%), and remote correlation in 19 (33%). Clustered microcalcifications were the most common mammographic abnormality that was directly correlated with AH at histologic examination. Atypical ductal hyperplasia was much more frequently associated with a direct mammographic-histologic correlation than was atypical lobular hyperplasia (48% vs 9%). The authors conclude that, although no pathognomonic appearance of AH was discovered, mammographic abnormalities similar to those of small cancers could be directly correlated with histologic findings in 41% of cases. Since AH has been shown to be associated with a five- to tenfold increased risk of subsequent invasive carcinoma, frequent clinical and at least yearly mammographic follow-up is suggested once AH is discovered. 
Effect of taurine on total parenteral nutrition-associated cholestasis. A decrease in the formation/secretion of bile has been well documented in animals on total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Either an excess or an imbalance of amino acids (AA) has been most often implicated. In view of recent work showing that taurine promotes bile flow, bile acid secretion, and protects against hepatotoxic bile acids, the effect of adding taurine (15 mg/dL) to an AA solution was examined in guinea pigs on TPN for 3 days. The TPN-taurine group had a larger bile flow than the group without taurine and had bile acid secretory rates (BASR) similar to those of controls who were on saline by central catheter and had free access to food. Bile composition showed an increase in the secondary bile acid, 7-ketolithocholate and a concomitant decrease in chenodeoxycholate (CDC) in both experimental groups. Taurine led to a reversal of the usual predominance of glycine over taurine conjugated bile acids as well as to increases in HCO3 in cholesterol secretion. In response to a challenge with a large load of CDC, the TPN-taurine animals increased their BASR beyond those observed in the two other groups. These observations suggest that the addition of taurine to TPN solutions could play a role in the prevention of altered biliary function associated with AA solutions. 
Phase I study of liposomal MTP-PE-activated autologous monocytes administered intraperitoneally to patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. We have conducted a phase I study with autologous monocytes activated ex vivo and administered intraperitoneally in nine patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. Blood monocytes were collected by leukapheresis and then purified by counterflow elutriation (up to 10(9) cells, with a purity of greater than 90%). Ex vivo activation was obtained by incubating these cells with 1 micrograms liposomal MTP-PE/10(6) monocytes for 18 hours in hydrophobic culture bags at 37 degrees C in 5% carbon dioxide humidified air. The activated monocytes were then infused in the peritoneal cavity once a week for 5 consecutive weeks through an implanted peritoneal infusion system, Port-A-Cath (Pharmacia Deltec, St Paul, MN), on an intrapatient dose-escalating schedule (10(7) to 10(9) monocytes). No severe adverse reactions occurred. Toxicity was mild, the chief acute reactions being fever (27%), chills (13%), and abdominal pain (25%). None of the side effects led to dose reduction. No consistent change in hemostatic function, liver function, or renal function was observed. Significant increases in granulocyte counts, neopterine, and acute phase reactants (fibrinogen, C-reactive protein) occurred in the peripheral blood. In vitro monocyte activation was demonstrated by the relapse of procoagulant activity and monokines (interleukin-1 [IL-1], IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF alpha]) in the supernatants of cultured monocytes. Evidence for in vivo monocyte activation was provided by the increase of these monokines in the peritoneal fluids. Kinetic studies with indium-111 (111In)-labeled activated autologous monocytes in five patients suggest that these infused monocytes may remain in the peritoneal cavity for up to 7 days. This locoregional immunotherapeutic approach seems to be encouraging in view of adjuvant therapeutic modality in ovarian cancer patients with minimal residual intraabdominal disease following second-look laparotomy. 
Prognosis of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma: an evaluation based on multivariate analysis of 90 cases. A multivariate analysis of data from 90 patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma was performed using Cox's regression model to identify factors possibly affecting their prognoses. Thirty-one patients underwent arterial anticancer chemotherapy, and the remaining 59 patients received transcatheter arterial embolization with anticancer agents. Four of 27 variables tested for all the patients (i.e., encapsulation [p less than 0.05], gross appearance of hepatocellular carcinoma [p less than 0.01], clinical stage [p less than 0.01] and therapy [p less than 0.01]) were found to be prognostically significant. Five of 27 variables tested were prognostically significant for the transcatheter arterial embolization group; they were an extension rate of hepatocellular carcinoma (p less than 0.01), encapsulation (p less than 0.01), alpha-fetoprotein (p less than 0.01), prothrombin time (p less than 0.01) and serum sodium (p less than 0.01). Regression equations were used to describe a prognostic index. A prognostic index was defined as the regression equation derived from the results of a total of 90 patients; PI-1 = eY, where PI-1 = prognostic index 1 Y = 1.549 (gross appearance of hepatocellular carcinoma - 1.344) + 0.778 (encapsulation - 1.622) + 0.818 (clinical stage - 1.800) + 1.760 (therapy - 1.344) and prognostic index 2, the regression equation derived from the results of the transcatheter arterial embolization group of patients; PI-2 = eY, where PI-2 = prognostic index 2 Y = 1.210 (extension rate of hepatocellular carcinoma - 1.576) + 1.179 (encapsulation - 1.475) + 0.0001277 (alpha-fetoprotein - 1420.792) -0.039 (prothrombin time - 72.237) - 0.214 (serum sodium - 138.427). 
alpha 1-antagonists in the treatment of hypertension. A number of agents are now available to treat hypertension. One relatively new class of agents is the selective alpha 1-inhibitors, which have distinct advantages over earlier nonselective alpha-adrenergic receptor-blocking agents. Three alpha 1-inhibitors are reviewed in this article: prazosin, terazosin, and doxazosin. These alpha 1-inhibitors are similar in chemical structure and pharmacological action. alpha 1-Inhibitors lower blood pressure by reducing vascular tone in resistance and capacitance vessels. alpha 1-Inhibitors are similar in effectiveness in blood pressure lowering to other commonly used antihypertensive agents like the thiazide diuretic drugs and beta-blockers, which are efficacious as monotherapy in lowering pressure, as initial agents, or in combination with other antihypertensive agents in multidrug therapeutic regimens. alpha 1-Inhibitors are associated with a reasonably low incidence of serious adverse effects and are essentially free of any adverse metabolic effects. alpha 1-Inhibitors have been shown to beneficially effect blood lipids in several studies. The favorable lipid effect makes alpha 1-inhibitors especially appropriate to use in diabetic hypertensive and other patients with elevated serum lipid levels. The beneficial lipid effects may enhance the ability of alpha 1-inhibitors to prevent coronary heart disease, an outcome that has been difficult to demonstrate in thiazide-based trials. 
Glycolytic inhibition and calcium overload as consequences of exogenously generated free radicals in rabbit hearts. Free radicals have been implicated in the pathogenesis of reperfusion injury, but it is unclear how they exert their deleterious effects on cellular metabolism. Several lines of indirect evidence suggest that free radicals elevate intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and inhibit glycolysis as part of their mechanism of injury. We tested these ideas directly in hearts subjected to hydroxyl radicals produced by the Fenton and Haber-Weiss reactions. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were obtained from Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts before, during, and after 4 min of perfusion with H2O2 (0.75 mM) and Fe(3+)-chelate (0.1 mM). Isovolumic left ventricular pressure exhibited progressive functional deterioration and contracture after exposure to H2O2 + Fe3+. Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra revealed partial ATP depletion and sugar phosphate accumulation indicative of glycolytic inhibition. To measure [Ca2+]i, fluorine NMR spectra were acquired in a separate group of hearts loaded with the Ca2+ indicator 5F-BAPTA [5,5'-difluoro derivative of 1,2-bis-(o-aminophenoxy)ethane- N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid]. Mean time-averaged [Ca2+]i increased from 347 +/- 14 nM in control to 1,026 +/- 295 nM 4 min after free radical generation (means +/- SEM, n = 7), and remained elevated thereafter. We conclude that free radicals induce clear-cut, specific derangements of cellular metabolism in the form of glycolytic inhibition and calcium overload. The observed increase in [Ca2+]i suggests that the deleterious effects of free radicals are at least partially mediated by secondary changes in cellular calcium homeostasis. 
Successful removal of massive intragastric gallstones by endoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy and mechanical lithotripsy. We describe a case of massive gallstones discharged into the stomach through a cholecystoduodenal fistula and the successful removal of these stones by endoscopic electrohydraulic lithotripsy (EEHL) and endoscopic mechanical lithotripsy (EML) for the prevention of gallstone ileus. A 60-yr-old woman was admitted with epigastric pain and nausea. Upper gastrointestinal tract examination demonstrated backflow of contrast medium from the duodenal bulb into the gallbladder. Endoscopic examination revealed a large fistula on the anterior wall of the duodenal bulb, and two brown stones (about 3 cm in diameter) were found in the stomach. To prevent gallstone ileus, removal of these stones was attempted. They were broken into pieces by EEHL, then crushed into smaller pieces by EML and removed orally. Chemical analysis showed the composition of the gallstones to be at least 98% cholesterol. The patient was discharged one month after removal of the gallstones and has remained asymptomatic. 
Expression of specific UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms in carcinogen-induced preneoplastic rat liver nodules. The expression of specific UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms in 2-acetylaminofluorane-induced rat liver preneoplastic nodules was studied; livers from pair-fed littermates were used as controls. For comparison, liver and kidney from 3-methylcholanthrene-treated or untreated (control) rats were used. Steady-state UDP-glucuronosyltransferase mRNA levels were determined by Northern blot analysis or in situ hybridization of tissue sections using a 30-mer oligonucleotide specific for the 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (which is active toward 4-nitrophenol) or a double-stranded cDNA probe specific for androsterone-UDP-glucuronosyltransferase. For 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, the mRNA level was very low in control liver; there was a 15-fold increase after 3-methylcholanthrene treatment. This mRNA was present at relatively high concentration in the kidney and there was a threefold increase after 3-methylcholanthrene administration. In livers with preneoplastic nodules 1 mo after cessation of carcinogen administration, this mRNA concentration was approximately 15 times greater than in control liver. Similar changes in the level of the 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible UDP-glucuronosyltransferase were also observed by in situ hybridization of tissue sections. Immunocytochemical studies using an antiserum that recognizes the 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible UDP-glucuronosyltransferase showed a marked increase in the concentration of this isoform in preneoplastic nodules compared with the adjacent nonnodular liver. 
Deleted HTLV-I provirus in blood and cutaneous lesions of patients with mycosis fungoides. Mycosis fungoides, a rare form of cutaneous T cell leukemia/lymphoma, is suspected of having a viral etiology on the basis of certain similarities to adult T cell leukemia, which is associated with human T cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I (HTLV-I) infection. Cell lines were established from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of an HTLV-I-seronegative patient with mycosis fungoides. DNA hybridization analysis revealed the presence of HTLV-I-related sequences with unusual restriction endonuclease sites. Sequence analysis of subcloned fragments demonstrated the presence of a monoclonally integrated provirus with a 5.5-kilobase deletion involving large regions of gag and env and all of pol. Additional evidence for the presence of deleted proviruses was found by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of DNA from cutaneous lesions of five other HTLV-I-seronegative patients. The findings suggest that HTLV-I infection may be involved in the etiology of at least certain cases of mycosis fungoides. 
Bilateral internal mammary artery grafts in reoperative and primary coronary bypass surgery Bilateral internal mammary artery grafting is recognized as a preferred method of myocardial revascularization. However, its efficacy in coronary bypass reoperation has not been clearly established. From January 1982 through June 1989, 88 patients underwent coronary bypass reoperation with bilateral internal mammary artery grafts. Results were compared with those for a subset of 88 patients receiving primary revascularization with bilateral internal mammary artery grafts who were computer matched for sex, age, left ventricular function, anginal classification, and left main coronary artery disease. In each group, 62.5% (55 patients) had unstable angina, 43.2% (38 patients) had reduced ejection fraction, and 21.6% (19 patients) in the reoperation group and 20.5% (18 patients) in the reference group had left main coronary artery disease. Hospital mortality for the reoperation group was 6.8% (6 patients) and for the reference group, 3.4% (3 patients). No significant difference was found in the incidence of reoperation for bleeding, sternal infection, or stroke in the two groups. The incidence of respiratory insufficiency in the reoperation group was 13.6% (12 patients) and in the reference group, 3.4% (3 patients) (p less than 0.015). Recurrent angina occurred in 13.7% (10 patients) of patients in the reoperation group and 13.3% (10 patients) in the reference group. The long-term survival at 5 years for the reoperation group was 85.3% +/- 5.6% (+/- standard error of the mean) and for the reference group, 91.6% +/- 3.1%. No significant difference was found in the equality of survival distribution for the two groups. 
Developing anxiety-reduction procedures for a ventilator-dependent pediatric patient. This study evaluated two strategies to reduce anxiety behaviors which interfered with the daily tracheostomy care and ventilator maintenance of an eight-year-old ventilator-dependent boy. A multiple-baseline design (across ventilator and tracheostomy procedures) was used to evaluate the effectiveness of an information-only procedure and combined relaxation and cognitive distraction procedures. Partial-interval recording was used to measure heart rate, disruptive mouth noises, and demands and complaints to staff members. The patient's behavior did not change during a no-intervention baseline or during the information-only condition. Cognitive distraction and relaxation procedures were introduced, first during ventilator checks and then during tracheostomy care; corresponding decreases in heart rate, mouth noises, and demands and complaints were noted. Gains were maintained at one year follow-up. Results suggest that information alone may not effectively reduce anxiety behaviors for some ventilator-dependent patients unless additional anxiety-reduction procedures are implemented. 
Hemilaryngectomy for salvage of radiation therapy failures. Radiation therapy has been the treatment most frequently used for early vocal cord cancer with surgery usually in the form of total laryngectomy held in reserve as a salvage option. We report our experience in selected patients who, having failed radiation therapy for their early vocal cord cancers, underwent frontolateral hemilaryngectomy as attempted salvage surgery. Between 1977 and 1986, fourteen patients at the University of Pittsburgh Eye and Ear Hospital underwent hemilaryngectomy for salvage of their stage I vocal cord squamous cell carcinoma after full-course radiation therapy had been unsuccessful. Over this same time period, 77 patients underwent total laryngectomy for salvage of radiation therapy failure. Three patients failed hemilaryngectomy, two of whom were ultimately salvaged with total laryngectomy. Thus a 79% salvage rate was achieved with hemilaryngectomy with an average followup of 90 months. The overall cure rate was 93% (13 of 14) with voice preservation in 86% (12 of 14). Decannulation, postoperative infection, and initiation of oral intake were not influenced by age. Such problems occurred more often in patients undergoing radiation therapy compared to those undergoing hemilaryngectomy without previous radiation therapy. These results indicate that hemilaryngectomy may be used for the salvage of radiation therapy failures of stage I vocal cord carcinoma with good success and without undue morbidity. 
Comparative effects of oral molsidomine and nifedipine on methylergometrine-induced coronary artery spasm. Twelve consecutive patients (10 men and 2 women, mean +/- standard deviation age 49 +/- 9 years) with chest pain, angiographically normal coronary arteries and coronary artery spasm documented by methylergometrine testing received a single oral dose of molsidomine (4 mg) or nifedipine (10 mg) in a randomized, double-blind, crossover fashion at a 24-hour interval. Coronary artery spasm was documented during coronary angiography in 6 patients (left anterior descending artery, 3; right coronary artery, 2; left circumflex, 1). In the remaining 6 patients, coronary artery spasm was documented by a positive methylergometrine test performed at the bedside, which provoked ST-segment elevation in the inferior (n = 3), anterior (n = 1) or lateral (n = 2) leads. Ninety minutes after administration of the study medication, methylergometrine testing was performed at the bedside, using incremental doses of up to 0.4 mg of methylergometrine. After molsidomine, 10 patients (83%) had a negative and 2 had a positive test; after nifedipine, 9 patients (75%) had a negative and 3 a positive test. Only 1 patient had a methylergometrine test that remained positive after either molsidomine or nifedipine. Therefore, molsidomine appears as effective as nifedipine in suppressing methylergometrine-induced coronary artery spasm in patients with variant angina. In addition, patients not responding to 1 of the study medications may respond to the other. 
Characterisation of inflammatory cells associated with "idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis". During ureterolysis in a patient with "idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis", fresh samples of peri-ureteric and peri-aortic tissue were obtained. An abdominal CT scan confirmed the peri-aortic distribution of the inflammation associated with advanced abdominal aortic atherosclerosis. Histology confirmed the presence of fibrosis and a variable chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate. Monoclonal antibodies were used to identify the inflammatory cells. B and T lymphocytes were present with the majority of T lymphocytes of the T helper phenotype. The majority of lymphocytes and macrophages and most vascular endothelial cells were HLA-DR positive. Ki67 and BerH2 staining was found in B cells and T helper cells, indicating that these cells were proliferating and activated. These findings compare with the characterisation of inflammatory cells associated with "inflammatory aneurysms" and with the inflammatory cells present in the spectrum of inflammation seen as a complication of advanced atherosclerosis--conditions known as "chronic peri-aortitis". It is suggested that our findings support the view that idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis represents clinical chronic peri-aortitis seen in an undilated aorta. 
Aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in persons aged 80 years and over. Seventy-one patients aged greater than or equal to 80 years (mean +/- standard deviation 82 +/- 2) with aortic stenosis or mixed stenosis and regurgitation underwent aortic valve replacement alone (n = 35, group 1) or in combination with a coronary artery bypass procedure without any other valve procedure (n = 36, group 2). Preoperatively, 91% had severe cardiac limitations (New York Heart Association class III or IV). Hospital mortality was 12.7% overall (9 of 71), 5.7% (2 of 35) for group 1 and 19.4% (7 of 36) for group 2. Perioperatively, 1 patient (1.4%) had a stroke. Survival from late cardiac death at 1 and 3 years was 98.2 and 95.5%, respectively, for all patients, 100% for patients who underwent isolated aortic valve replacement, and 96.3 and 91.2%, respectively, for patients who underwent aortic valve replacement plus coronary artery bypass. Eighty-three percent of surviving patients had marked symptomatic improvement. Freedom from all valve-related complications (thromboembolism, anticoagulant, endocarditis, reoperation or prosthetic failure) was 93.3 and 80.4% at 1 and 3 years, respectively. Thus, short- and long-term morbidity and mortality after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in patients aged greater than or equal to 80 years are encouragingly low, although the addition of coronary artery bypass grafting increases short- and long-term mortality. 
Internal jugular vein thrombosis after ovulation induction with gonadotropins. An unusual case of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome complicated by internal jugular vein and mediastinal thrombosis is presented. Hemoconcentration and perhaps immobilization appear to be the most probable causative factors. The patient was successfully treated with heparin anticoagulation. An uneventful twin pregnancy resulted from the stimulation cycle. 
Nutritional support in liver failure. The most important manifestations of advanced liver disease are malnutrition, encephalopathy, and hepatorenal syndrome. Appropriate and optimal nutritional and metabolic support with specially formulated solutions enriched in branched-chain amino acids, together with other advanced treatments such as plasmapheresis, hemofiltration, and continuous arteriovenous hemodialysis, can correct the most important metabolic and clinical aberrations and temporarily improve the quality of life. However, the ultimately poor prognosis of patients with severe liver failure has not been altered significantly to date by the provision of nonspecific or specifically tailored nutrient regimens. The prognosis appears to depend on the arrest, correction, or reversal of the primary pathophysiologic process. 
Twelve cases of Ki-1 positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma of skin. In seven of 12 cases of Ber-H2 (Ki-1) positive anaplastic large cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Ki-1 ALCL) disease remained localised to skin, and in five there was extracutaneous spread. Four patients had histological evidence of pre-existing or coexisting mycosis fungoides, and three patients had a long standing history of eczema or ichthyosis. In two cases the presence of a T phenotype was shown in frozen sections, and in a further six cases a T phenotype was firmly established in paraffin wax sections. Four patients died less than one year after presentation (two with disseminated lymphoma; two from other causes); one died at five years with widespread lymphoma and the remaining seven cases were alive one to 14 1/2 years after presentation. Three of the four patients with associated mycosis fungoides had prolonged survival, contrary to the findings of previous reports which suggest secondary Ki-1 ALCL behaves aggressively. The recognition of these tumours is important because of their relatively good prognosis. The diagnosis can be readily substantiated immunohistochemically, using a simple panel of antibodies. 
Electrophysiological and binding studies on intact NCB-20 cells suggest presence of a low affinity sigma receptor. Whole cell voltage clamp studies were performed on NCB-20 cells to examine physiological responses to drugs possessing affinities for sigma receptors. Those drugs [haloperidol, alpha-(4-fluoro-phenyl)-4-(5-fluoro-2-pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazinebutano l (BMY-14802), pentazocine, N-allylnormetazocine (SKF-10047), 3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperidine (3-PPP), phencyclidine, 1-[1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine (TCP), (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801)] caused an apparent inward current, which was due to blockade of a tonic, outward potassium current. The rank order of drug potencies in producing this effect generally resembled the rank orders of sigma-receptor affinities for the drugs, except that a reverse stereoselectivity was observed for several drugs. [3H](+)-SKF-10047 labeled two sites in intact NCB-20 cells (Kd = 49 nM, Bmax = 1.0 pmol/mg protein and Kd = 9.6 microM, Bmax = 69 pmol/mg protein). The high affinity site was similar pharmacologically to the sigma receptor assayed in membrane fragments from NCB-20 cells. However, the low affinity site showed a slightly different profile, highlighted by a reverse stereoselectivity. The rank order of drug potencies was as follows at the low affinity site: haloperidol greater than BMY-14802 greater than (-)-pentazocine greater than (+)-pentazocine greater than (-)-SKF-10047 greater than (-)-3-PPP greater than (+)-SKF-10047 greater than (+)-3-PPP greater than phencyclidine greater than TCP greater than MK-801. 
Endothelin and calcium signaling in NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma cells. Endothelin (ET)-mediated Ca++ signaling in NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma cells was studied by measuring free intracellular Ca++ (Ca++i) levels with the fluorescent Ca++ indicator, fura-2. ET-1 produced biphasic increases in Ca++i consisting of a transient peak elevation followed by a sustained plateau phase. Both peak and plateau Ca++i responses to 5 nM ET-1 were reduced by depletion of extracellular Ca++. Peak responses were also attenuated by inhibitors of inositol phosphate metabolism, whereas plateau responses were affected by dihydropyridine Ca++ channel agonists and antagonists and by differentiation. These results suggest that peak Ca++i responses to ET-1 involve mobilization of Ca++ from inositol phosphate-sensitive intracellular stores and influx of extracellular Ca++ through nonclassical Ca++ channels, whereas plateau responses are mediated by Ca++ influx through dihydropyridine-sensitive, voltage-gated channels. 
Endoscopic biopsy technique for acquiring larger mucosal samples. Biopsies of the esophagus, stomach, and intestine are most often obtained using the traditional advance-and-close method with flexible endoscopes by extending an open forceps several millimeters beyond the endoscope tip to sample the mucosa, all under direct vision. We developed an alternative "turn-and-suction" endoscopic biopsy technique that permits the acquisition of larger mucosal samples. The biopsy forceps is advanced into the lumen, opened, and withdrawn backward until it is flush with the endoscope tip. Next, the endoscope tip is turned gently into the wall while air is suctioned from the lumen, and the biopsy forceps is very slightly advanced and then closed, usually without direct visualization. After straightening the endoscope tip, the biopsy is obtained by withdrawing the forceps and avulsing a superficial mucosal sample. By using this new method, we have safely taken over 10,000 biopsies without complications in endoscopic surveillance research protocols in patients at risk for gastrointestinal cancer. To compare the sizes of biopsies obtained with these two techniques, histologic sections of 341 mucosal samples from 12 patients with chronic ulcerative colitis were studied retrospectively. The mean greatest length of biopsy sections using the traditional technique was 4.72 mm, and using our new technique was 7.35 mm (56% longer). The turn-and-suction endoscopic biopsy method is best applied when flat mucosa is randomly sampled to seek microscopic pathologic changes that are not visible endoscopically, and may be advantageous for various non-histologic research analyses of gastrointestinal mucosa which are limited by tissue quantity. 
A multi-centre collaborative study into the treatment of menorrhagia by Nd-YAG laser ablation of the endometrium. OBJECTIVE--To determine the safety and clinical effectiveness of Nd-YAG laser ablation of the endometrium in the treatment of menorrhagia. DESIGN--A prospective 3-year observational multi-centre study. SETTING--Gynaecological units in the UK and USA with special interest in endoscopic laser surgery. SUBJECTS--859 women with menorrhagia resistant to medical therapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Duration of laser ablation, intra- and post-operative complications, amenorrhoea rate, oligomenorrhoea rate, and woman's subjective assessment of treatment. RESULTS--No major complications occurred in 859 treatments. Four (0.4%) cases of transient fluid overload, 4 (0.4%) of infection, and 3 (0.3%) of uterine perforation occurred. Each of the perforations occurred during insertion of the rigid instruments and none was produced by the laser. There were no major haemorrhages, no blood transfusions were needed, and no woman required a laparotomy. The mean duration of the laser ablation was 24 min, and the average stay in hospital was less than 24 h. Of the 479 women followed up for at least 6 months after treatment 288 (60%) developed complete amenorrhoea and 152 (32%) reported continuing but satisfactorily reduced menstruation; 39 (8%) failed to improve with the first treatment, but 26 of them responded to a second laser ablation. Overall 466 (97%) had a satisfactory response to laser ablation and only 13 (3%) required subsequent hysterectomy. CONCLUSION--Endometrial laser ablation would appear to be a popular, safe, effective and economical alternative to hysterectomy for the treatment of menorrhagia. 
Angiographic assessment of the infarct-related residual coronary stenosis after spontaneous or therapeutic thrombolysis The severity of the infarct-related residual coronary stenosis after spontaneous or therapeutic thrombolysis was quantitatively assessed in 91 patients with an acute myocardial infarction who were allocated to treatment in the acute stage with either a thrombolytic agent (100 mg of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator given over 3 h, 49 patients) or a placebo (42 patients). Heparin and aspirin were given to both groups until angiography was performed. Digital subtracted images of the infarct-related coronary vessel were obtained 10 to 14 days after hospital admission and were subsequently analyzed with the use of a computer-assisted coronary stenosis measurement system. Neither treatment group differed significantly in age, gender or location of the culprit coronary lesion. Median values (90% range) in the thrombolysis and control groups were, respectively, 1.95 (0.9 to 5.3) mm versus 1.7 (0.9 to 3.4) mm for stenosis length; 1.4 (0.8 to 2.7) mm versus 1.4 (0.9 to 1.8) mm for minimal luminal diameter; 57% (36% to 75%) versus 58% (44% to 71%) for diameter obstruction; 82% (59% to 95%) versus 82% (68% to 92%) for geometric area obstruction; and 78% (58% to 91%) versus 79% (66% to 90%) for densitometric area obstruction. The difference between the two groups was not statistically significant for any of these measurements. Thus, in this study no significant differences in anatomy or severity of residual coronary stenosis could be demonstrated at 10 to 14 days after an acute myocardial infarction in patients with a recanalized infarct-related vessel, whether or not thrombolytic therapy was given on admission. These results indicate that with effective antithrombotic treatment, gradual endogenous fibrinolysis or more rapid lysis induced by the infusion of a thrombolytic agent results in a similar infarct-related coronary lesion at the time of hospital discharge. 
Hypertensive renal damage. The primary focus of both nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic therapy should be to control systemic blood pressure in a simple, affordable, and nontoxic fashion that provides an adequate quality of life. Although newer agents provide hope for greater capability of preventing renal dysfunction, their cost may prevent their broad availability in the black hypertensive population (see Chapter 5). Judicious use of traditional therapies, combined with newer approaches when possible, may offer prescribing physicians the best opportunity to control blood pressure in ways to avoid renal dysfunction. The lessons of the past 20 years have taught us that lowering blood pressure by any means helps in reducing target organ damage. More recent observations in hypertensive blacks illustrate the need for improved therapies to prevent renal dysfunction. A more physiologic approach to blood pressure control in the black patient that conserves perfusion to the kidney may delay the development of nephrosclerosis. Increased awareness, educational support, and encouragement will be necessary to insure compliance with therapy for a disease that is largely asymptomatic. 
Epstein-Barr virus and persistent graft dysfunction after liver transplantation. Epstein-Barr virus infection has been associated with a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations, depending on the immune status of the host. In this report, we describe two liver transplant patients who received hepatic allografts from donors serologically positive for Epstein-Barr virus and who experienced primary infection with Epstein-Barr virus associated with prolonged liver graft dysfunction. In both patients, Epstein-Barr serologies converted within 3 mo of liver transplantation, and hepatic histological study revealed mononuclear infiltration of the sinusoids evolving to pronounced immunoblastic features suggestive of evolving lymphoma. In both cases, in situ hybridization studies confirmed the presence of Epstein-Barr virus genome in the liver. Furthermore, polymerase chain reaction analysis suggested that high levels of Epstein-Barr virus DNA were present in biopsy specimens obtained during the episode of acute hepatitis that followed Epstein-Barr virus seroconversion. The degree of Epstein-Barr virus DNA estimated by polymerase chain reaction appeared to increase in parallel with the progression of parenchymal lymphocytic infiltrates. In one patient, a biopsy sample from a cervical node also revealed high levels of Epstein-Barr virus DNA estimated using the polymerase chain reaction technique. Furthermore, in these patients, Epstein-Barr virus DNA levels appeared to decrease dramatically after discontinuing azathioprine administration and beginning treatment with acyclovir. These two cases illustrate the dynamics of Epstein-Barr virus immune regulation and confirm chronic hepatic allograft dysfunction related to Epstein-Barr viral infection. 
Chronic pain: a PET study of the central effects of percutaneous high cervical cordotomy. We have studied 5 patients with unilateral, severe chronic pain due to cancer before and after percutaneous, ventrolateral cervical cordotomy to investigate the central effects of the procedure. The aim was to identify the functional anatomical correlates of abolishing unilateral nociceptive input to the brain. Patients were investigated by positron emission tomography using C15O2 to evaluate cerebral blood flow. Comparisons were made between the patients with unilateral pain before cordotomy and normal volunteers. These demonstrated significantly less blood flow in 3 out of 4 of the individual quadrants of the hemithalamus contralateral to the side of pain (P less than 0.01-0.05). These differences were abolished by cordotomy. Comparison of the patients before and after cordotomy showed a significant decrease in blood flow in the dorsal anterior quadrant of the thalamus contralateral to the side of pain (P less than 0.05) which was normalised after cordotomy. There were no significant changes in the prefrontal or primary somatosensory cortex. We conclude that chronic pain results in a decrease of synaptic activity at thalamic level either from decreased activity in neurones projecting to that region and/or attenuated local neuronal firing. We have demonstrated no secondary remote effects in cortex, indicating the importance of subcortical mechanisms in central responses to chronic pain. 
A fatality after antipyrine administration. An 87-year-old woman died after the administration of an intravenous injection of antipyrine during the course of an investigation of the efficacy of oxerutins in venous ulceration. This is believed to be the first such fatality. 
Evaluation of neck lymph node dissection for thoracic esophageal carcinoma We studied a series of 150 patients treated for thoracic esophageal carcinoma at our institution. The patients were divided into two matched groups. Group B underwent transthoracic esophagectomy with mediastinal and abdominal lymphadenectomy only; group A also underwent bilateral neck lymph node dissection. The rates of operative mortality and operative complications did not differ significantly between the two groups. The 5-year survival rate was 38.7% overall (48.7% in group A and 33.7% in group B). Group A had a significantly better survival curve than group B. Twenty patients (26.0%) in group A had metastasis in the dissected neck lymph nodes. The 4-year survival rate of these patients was 47.9%. The significantly better survival of group A and the satisfactory prognosis in the patients with positive cervical lymph nodes demonstrates the effectiveness of neck lymph node dissection in radical operation for thoracic esophageal carcinoma. 
Danazol-induced hepatocellular adenomas. A case report and review of the literature. We report a case of hepatocellular adenomas in a 39-year-old woman who had been taking danazol for uterine fibroids. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which multiple hepatocellular adenomas were discovered after only 6 months of danazol intake. 
Extramedullary nasal plasmacytoma. The literature on this rare tumour has been reviewed and three cases of nasal plasmacytoma are described. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated cytoplasmic IgA and Kappa determinants in all cases. Two patients are disease-free at the present time, the third developed an IgG-k multiple myeloma, previously not described in the literature. 
The nature of elder impairment and its impact on family caregivers' health and psychosocial functioning. This study assessed the nature of elder impairment and its impact on the health and psychosocial functioning of family caregivers. All caregivers were daughters or daughters-in-law living with an elderly parent. Contrary to expectations and previous research, no differences were revealed among caregivers of cognitively impaired, functionally impaired, and nonimpaired elderly relatives in terms of self-reported health or psychosocial functioning. Thus, other aspects of the caregiving context, such as familial generation, gender, and living arrangement, may affect caregiver health and psychosocial functioning more than the nature of the elder's impairment. 
Leukoaraiosis correlates with cerebral hypoperfusion in vascular dementia. Leukoaraiosis quantified by computerized densitometric measurements of reduced Hounsfield numbers was correlated with local cerebral blood flow on the same computed tomographic images of 35 patients with multi-infarct dementia and 16 age-matched elderly normal volunteers. The ratio for area of frontal leukoaraiosis to total area of parenchyma among the patients was significantly greater than that among the normal volunteers (5.8 +/- 2.3% compared with 3.1 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.001). Severity of leukoaraiosis around the frontal horns of the lateral ventricles correlated significantly with severity of leukoaraiosis of the centrum semiovale adjacent to the bodies of the lateral ventricles. Cerebral blood flow values for all representative cerebral regions except the parietal white matter were reduced among the patients compared with the normal volunteers. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that reduced cerebral perfusion in the putamen and thalamus correlated significantly with the severity of leukoaraiosis. Cerebral hypoperfusion in territories supplied by deep penetrating arteries may contribute to the pathogenesis of leukoaraiosis. 
Ataxic hemiparesis associated with ipsilateral cerebellar syndrome caused by a paracentral gyrus lesion. The authors report a case of ataxic hemiparesis and an ipsilateral cerebellar syndrome in relation to a glioblastoma of the paracentral gyrus region. The physiopathology of this clinical presentation caused by compression of the corticopontine tract is discussed. 
Responsiveness of peripheral veins to vasodilators and the effect of nifedipine on alpha-adrenergic responsiveness in hypertension. Vasodilators have varying hemodynamic properties that may be important in determining their efficacy for different disorders. We used the dorsal hand vein technique to measure the effects of several vasodilators infused locally and to measure the action of systemically administered nifedipine. The venodilatory effects of hydralazine, verapamil, diazoxide, and nitroglycerin were determined in peripheral veins of healthy subjects. The potency (ED50, the dose producing half-maximal response) was as follows: nitroglycerin (0.0007 micrograms/min) greater than verapamil (6.5 micrograms/min) greater than diazoxide (75 micrograms/min) greater than hydralazine (660 micrograms/min). The effect of oral nifedipine on alpha-adrenergic responsiveness of hand veins was determined. Nifedipine given in therapeutic doses for the treatment of hypertension was associated with a threefold increase in the ED50 for phenylephrine (92 to 277 ng/min; p less than 0.05) and norepinephrine (2.9 to 11.5 ng/min; p less than 0.05). Therapeutic doses of nifedipine are associated with measurable shifts in the dose-response curves to these two alpha-adrenergic agonists in the hand vein. The hand vein technique can be used not only to compare the potency of locally infused drugs but also to measure venous effects of vasoactive drugs at therapeutic concentrations achieved after systemic administration. 
Cytomegalovirus esophagitis in AIDS: diagnosis by endoscopic biopsy. We have reviewed 28 esophageal biopsies from 28 patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), over a 1-yr period. Indications for esophageal biopsy were dysphagia persisting after antifungal therapy and/or radiologic evidence of esophageal ulcer. We compared the frequency of detecting cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection on hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stain with immunoperoxidase staining for CMV antigens. Five biopsies were positive for CMV by H&E stain and immunoperoxidase. Infected cells could often be identified in the granulation tissue and, in one severe case, in stromal papillae of the intact mucosa. Squamous cells were never positive. Thirteen biopsies consisted only of squamous epithelium, and all of these were negative by both techniques. Among the remaining 10 cases, no CMV inclusions were identified by H&E. Three of these biopsies displayed staining for viral antigens. In all cases positive by immunoperoxidase, numerous cells positive for viral antigens did not display any of the CMV-specific morphologic diagnostic criteria. Other coexisting diagnoses included candidiasis, Kaposi's sarcoma, and malignant lymphoma. We conclude 1) CMV infection of the esophagus is common in AIDS patients with esophageal ulcer or esophagitis resistant to antifungal therapy; 2) multiple infections or neoplasms may coexist; 3) since CMV apparently does not infect squamous epithelium and only rarely endothelium in stromal papillae, deep biopsies are necessary for diagnosis; and 4) immunoperoxidase staining is required for maximum diagnostic yield. 
Cerebral structure on magnetic resonance imaging in language- and learning-impaired children. Using magnetic resonance imaging 20 language- and learning-impaired children were compared with 12 normal control subjects. Gross brain structure was remarkably normal in the language- and learning-impaired group. Semiautomated morphometry was used to measure hemispheric volumes and cerebral asymmetries in six cerebral regions. The volume of the left posterior perisylvian region was significantly reduced in language- and learning-impaired children. Asymmetries in inferoanterior and superoposterior cerebral regions were also significantly different in this group. Results of descriptive group comparisons of estimated volumes of other cerebral gray-matter structures raise the possibility that some language- and learning-impaired children may have additional volume reductions in cortical and subcortical structures. The results suggest that hemispheric specialization of function may be anomalous in this population. 
Noninfectious colitis associated with short gut syndrome in infants. We describe noninfectious bloody diarrhea in 13 of 16 infants referred for management of short bowel syndrome and parenteral nutrition during a 33-month period. The condition was characterized by bloody, watery stools associated with carbohydrate malabsorption. Colitis occurred at a mean age of 4.2 months during periods of advancing enteral feedings of a hydrolyzed protein- or amino acid-containing formula. Sigmoidoscopy performed in nine patients revealed edema, patchy erythema, loss of normal vascular pattern, and mucosal friability without ulcerations or pseudomembranes. Colonic biopsy specimens demonstrated edema and mixed hypercellularity of the lamina propria, with prominent eosinophilia. Rectal bleeding ceased if formula feedings were decreased or withheld. Of multiple medications administered, sulfasalazine seemed to improve rectal bleeding most effectively in our patients and allowed for more rapid reintroduction of enteral feedings. 
Stroke and hypertension and its prevention. Systolic and diastolic hypertension in both men and women is a well-established risk factor for the development of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. Antihypertensive treatment decreases the risk, but questions remain as to the precise level of hypertension to be treated, whether the effects of antihypertensive treatment are blunted with increasing age, and the best type of antihypertensive drug or combination of drugs to be used. Further questions remain concerning the incidence of pseudohypertension and the potentially harmful effects of its treatment on the brain, and the possibility that fluctuations in blood pressure may be worse than elevation alone. A pragmatic approach would be to treat hypertension with vigor in the young, with caution in the mature, and with reluctance in the old. 
Relative roles of cardiac and arterial baroreceptors in vasopressin regulation during hemorrhage in conscious dogs. To determine the relative roles of cardiac and sinoaortic baroreceptors in mediation of arginine vasopressin (AVP) release, hemorrhage was performed in five groups of conscious splenectomized dogs: 1) all nerves intact; 2) either chronic surgical or acute pharmacological (intrapericardial lidocaine) cardiac denervation (CD); 3) chronic sinoarotic denervation (SAD); 4) combined chronic sinoartic denervation plus either chronic or acute cardiac denervation (SAD + CD); and 5) all nerves intact, but with ganglionic blockade. Hemorrhage (0.5 ml/min/kg) reduced mean arterial pressure similarly in the intact and CD groups. Decreases in mean arterial pressure were augmented in SAD, SAD + CD, and ganglion-blocked groups compared with responses in intact and CD groups. There were no differences in responses of plasma AVP to hemorrhage in the intact and CD groups, but the AVP response was significantly blunted in the SAD + CD group as compared with SAD alone. When compared during the early stage of hemorrhage, at the same reduction in mean arterial pressure, the rise in AVP was greater in the ganglion-blocked group than in the SAD + CD group, but was less than in the intact group. With a protocol to reduce mean arterial pressure by 20 mm Hg over the same period (42 +/- 0.6 minutes) in four of the groups, the blood volume required to reduce mean arterial pressure by 20 mm Hg was similar in the intact (20 +/- 1 ml/kg) and CD (21 +/- 1 ml/kg) groups, but was less in the SAD (12 +/- 1 ml/kg) and SAD + CD (12 +/- 1 ml/kg) groups. Again, similar increases were observed in AVP between the intact (50 +/- 9 pg/ml) and CD (51 +/- 9 pg/ml) groups, whereas increases in AVP were diminished in the SAD (11 +/- 3 pg/ml) and SAD + CD (7 +/- 2 pg/ml) groups. In the presence of an AVP antagonist, decreases in mean arterial pressure and increases in total peripheral resistance with hemorrhage were affected similarly in both the intact and CD groups, whereas hemodynamic impairment by AVP blockade was less marked in the SAD and SAD + CD groups. These results indicate that cardiac receptors are not the major regulators of AVP release during progressive hemorrhage in conscious dogs. However, when the complicating influences of sinoaortic reflexes were eliminated, a modest role for cardiac receptors was uncovered. 
Excimer laser-facilitated balloon angioplasty of a nondilatable lesion. Preliminary clinical experience with excimer laser coronary angioplasty shows that it is a safe and effective means of achieving nonsurgical coronary revascularization in selected patients but specific indications for its use are as yet undefined. In the present report a specific indication is proposed for the use of the excimer laser: to facilitate balloon inflation in a rigid stenosis that fails to dilate despite high balloon inflation pressures. 
Disc degeneration in magnetic resonance imaging. A comparative biochemical, histologic, and radiologic study in cadaver spines. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of 89 autopsied intervertebral discs from 22 cadaveric lumbar spines were correlated with biochemical composition, conventional radiography, and histologic structure to study the nature of disc intensity changes seen in MRI. Discs with a low signal intensity on T2-weighted MRI were characterized by shortening of relaxation times, dehydration, and decreases in total proteoglycan content and chondroitin-keratan sulfate ratios in the nucleus pulposus. This corresponded well with previously published studies. In histologic structure, no obvious differences between MRI findings were found. In conclusion, a low signal intensity in a lumbar disc on T2-weighted MRI probably reflects a true biochemical disc degeneration, but its relation to structural degenerative changes is uncertain. Therefore, MRI seems to be a sensitive and a specific imaging modality for detecting pathologic biochemical disc changes in the spine of a young adult. 
Marijuana as antiemetic medicine: a survey of oncologists' experiences and attitudes. A random-sample, anonymous survey of the members of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) was conducted in spring 1990 measuring the attitudes and experiences of American oncologists concerning the antiemetic use of marijuana in cancer chemotherapy patients. The survey was mailed to about one third (N = 2,430) of all United States-based ASCO members and yielded a response rate of 43% (1,035). More than 44% of the respondents report recommending the (illegal) use of marijuana for the control of emesis to at least one cancer chemotherapy patient. Almost one half (48%) would prescribe marijuana to some of their patients if it were legal. As a group, respondents considered smoked marijuana to be somewhat more effective than the legally available oral synthetic dronabinol ([THC] Marinol; Unimed, Somerville, NJ) and roughly as safe. Of the respondents who expressed an opinion, a majority (54%) thought marijuana should be available by prescription. These results bear on the question of whether marijuana has a "currently accepted medical use," at issue in an ongoing administrative and legal dispute concerning whether marijuana in smoked form should be available by prescription along with synthetic THC in oral form. This survey demonstrates that oncologists' experience with the medical use of marijuana is more extensive, and their opinions of it are more favorable, than the regulatory authorities appear to have believed. 
Thrombotic and hemorrhagic complications in essential thrombocythemia. A retrospective study of 103 patients. A retrospective study of 103 patients with essential thrombocythemia was carried out to evaluate the incidence of thrombohemorrhagic complications and establish whether there were any correlations between these events and clinical or laboratory data. At onset or during the course of the disease, 26 patients (25.2%) presented thrombotic and 12 (11.6%) hemorrhagic complications: among the latter, six patients had gastrointestinal bleeding during antiaggregant therapy. No significant correlations were observed between thrombohemorrhagic complications and platelet count, age, sex, platelet function, bleeding time, or therapeutic regimen. However, there was a statistically significant correlation between a positive patient history for thrombotic events and an increase in thromboses. In agreement with other authors, it is believed that the best approach in asymptomatic patients is strict surveillance without treatment. Chemotherapy and/or treatment with antiaggregant agents should be reserved for symptomatic patients or patients with a positive history for thrombotic events. 
Reversible renal insufficiency due to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in hypertensive nephrosclerosis. OBJECTIVE: To review the incidence of reversible renal insufficiency in patients with hypertensive nephrosclerosis undergoing antihypertensive therapy. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of 73 patients in a long-term blood pressure control study that compared the effects of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor plus conventional antihypertensive agents compared with placebo plus antihypertensive agents. SETTING: Hospital-based outpatient treatment center. INTERVENTIONS: Patients were divided into group 1, which received enalapril plus conventional antihypertensives, and group 2, which received placebo plus conventional antihypertensives. MEASUREMENTS: Blood pressure and serum creatinine levels were measured, and imaging studies of the main renal arteries were done. MAIN RESULTS: In group 1, eight of 42 patients (19%, 95% CI, 9% to 34%) developed reversible renal insufficiency, defined as an unexpected increase in serum creatinine of 88 mumol/L or higher. Six episodes of reversible renal insufficiency occurred during July and August when temperatures were 32.2 degrees C to 37.8 degrees C (90 degrees F to 100 degrees F). Renal artery stenosis was excluded by renal arteriogram or ultrasonic duplex scanning. All eight group-1 patients had a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure below their baseline level during reversible renal insufficiency (mean change, -28 +/- 10 mm Hg, P less than 0.001). The increase in the serum creatinine level was inversely correlated with the decrease in the mean arterial pressure (r = -0.68, P less than 0.01). Reversible renal insufficiency was successfully managed by withdrawing or reducing enalapril as well as other antihypertensive agents. Subsequently, enalapril was tolerated by seven of the eight patients without recurrence of renal insufficiency. In contrast, none of 31 (CI, 0% to 11%) patients in group 2 developed reversible renal insufficiency despite the fact that both the incidence of decreases in mean arterial pressure in 6 of 31 patients (19%) and the magnitude of the decreases in mean arterial pressure (mean change, -33 +/- 16 mm Hg) were similar to those observed in group 1. CONCLUSIONS: Reversible renal insufficiency in hypertensive nephrosclerosis associated with ACE inhibitor therapy correlates with relative hypotension, is not dependent on renal artery stenosis, and can usually be managed by dose reduction. 
Partial lamellar sclerouvectomy for ciliary body and choroidal tumors. The authors reviewed the postoperative course, visual results, histopathologic findings, and mortality data on 95 consecutive patients with tumors of the ciliary body and/or choroid who were managed by a partial lamellar sclerouvectomy. This surgical procedure is designed to remove the uveal tumor and leave intact the outer sclera and sensory retina. In this group of 95 patients, vitreous hemorrhage occurred in 79 (83%) cases, intraretinal or subretinal hemorrhage in 33 (35%), retinal detachment in 26 (28%), and cataract in 32 (34%). Most of the vitreous and retinal hemorrhages resolved spontaneously, sometimes leaving subretinal or preretinal fibrosis. A number of the postoperative retinal detachments resolved spontaneously, but retinal detachment surgery was necessary in 16 patients (17%), mostly in the earlier years of the survey. Most of the cataracts were mild and did not require surgery. The eventual postoperative visual acuity was equal to or better than the preoperative visual acuity in 23 cases (24%) over a mean follow-up period of 5 years. Enucleation was eventually necessary in 15 cases (16%), usually because of residual or recurrent tumor. Histopathologic diagnosis was uveal melanoma in 81 cases (85%) and other tumors in 14 cases (15%). There were no orbital recurrences, but distant metastases developed in five patients (5%), all of whom had undergone enucleation for recurrence of the intraocular melanoma. Although the surgical technique is difficult, partial lamellar sclerouvectomy appears to be a reasonable therapeutic option in selected cases of posterior uveal tumors. 
Anaesthetic management of myocardial infarction in a parturient. Myocardial infarction is encountered rarely during pregnancy, but when it occurs the event is life-threatening to both mother and fetus. Data on maternal and fetal outcome are limited, but overall maternal mortality approaches 35%, and 40% of deaths occur during the third trimester. We present a case of myocardial infarction occurring at 38 weeks gestation, and discuss the anaesthetic management of the problems encountered during labour and delivery. 
National High Blood Pressure Education Program Working Group report on ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Blood pressure measurements obtained in a physician's office may not represent a patient's blood pressure during an entire day. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) provides multiple readings over time. This review of the literature on ABPM addresses the current state of ABPM methods, normal blood pressure profiles, the clinical and research uses of ABPM, cost considerations, and recommendations for use of ABPM in selected circumstances. Current ABPM devices use either auscultatory or oscillometric methods to determine blood pressure. A rigorous comparison of these methods is needed to determine whether one method is more reliable. A nonbiased assessment of all available equipment is necessary. Normative data provided by ABPM research are needed for populations by age, race, gender, body habitus, and conditions, such as pregnancy. While ABPM is not cost-effective for all hypertensive patients, it can assist in the evaluation of such problems as target organ complications, syncopal episodes, episodic hypertension, and autonomic dysfunction. 
Reversible hypertriiodothyroninaemia due to adrenal insufficiency. It is well known that an excess of glucocorticoids affects thyroid tests. The effect of adrenal deficiency on thyroid hormones is less well defined. We here describe the case of a 33-year-old woman with Cushing's disease who was cured by trans-sphenoidal surgery. During the postoperative period, a secondary adrenal insufficiency developed. The thyroid blood tests then revealed elevated L-triiodothyronine (T3) levels and a decrease in reverse T3. These findings suggest that secondary adrenal deficiency may be associated with high T3 levels, which may be due to an increase in the peripheral conversion of thyroxine (T4) to T3. 
Survival and vehicular spread of human rotaviruses: possible relation to seasonality of outbreaks. In developing countries rotavirus infections account for nearly 6% of all diarrheal episodes and for 20% of diarrhea-associated deaths of young children. Even in industrialized countries rotavirus diarrhea in the young is among the leading causes of hospitalization. In temperate regions institutional outbreaks of the disease occur mainly in cold dry weather, whereas in tropical settings the seasonality is less well defined. Waterborne outbreaks of rotavirus gastroenteritis have been recorded; air, hands, fomities, and food may also act as vehicles for this infection. Rotaviruses can survive for weeks in potable and recreational waters and for at least 4 hours on human hands. In air and on nonporous inanimate surfaces, the survival of rotaviruses is favored by a relative humidity of less than or equal to 50% and viral infectivity can be retained for several days. Rotaviruses are relatively resistant to commonly used hard-surface disinfectants and hygienic hand-wash agents. 
Stress hormone and blood glucose response following acute stroke in the elderly. We studied the relation of reactive hyperglycemia, stress hormone response, and outcome in 23 consecutive elderly patients (median age 80 [range 75-92] years) following an acute first stroke. The median delay from the onset of the stroke to the first blood sample (day 0) was 9 (range 4-22) hours. Subsequent blood samples were taken, after fasting, for the determination of blood glucose, cortisol, catecholamine, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, and lactate concentrations on days 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 30, and 90. For all 23 patients, a significant relation was found between the blood glucose concentration and survival (p = 0.03) and the blood glucose concentration decreased with time (p less than 0.001). There was also a significant relation between blood glucose concentration and outcome (p = 0.02). For the 15 patients with complete data, the major determinants of the blood glucose concentration were the cortisol, insulin, and glucagon concentrations (all p less than 0.001), which accounted for 42% of the variance. When all the indexes were analyzed together by logistic regression, only the cortisol concentration was related to outcome (p = 0.02). Hyperglycemia following a stroke probably reflects the intensity of the stress hormone response. We have confirmed that hyperglycemia is a predictor of outcome in persons with stroke. 
Diagnostic relevance of trigeminal evoked potentials following infraorbital nerve stimulation. A new tool in neurophysiological exploration of the trigeminal nerve has recently been introduced. It has been demonstrated that stimulation of the infraorbital nerve trunk gives rise to very reliable scalp responses reflecting the activity of the afferent pathway between the maximally nerve and the brain stem. The authors demonstrate that alterations of such trigeminal evoked responses fit with documented pathological processes at various locations along the trigeminal pathway (maxillary sinus, parasellar region, and within the brain-stem parenchyma). They report the findings in 68 patients suffering from "idiopathic" trigeminal neuralgia. Alterations of the response were detected in 33 cases, suggesting that some damage of the nerve had taken place either at the root entry zone into the pons (23 cases) or slightly distal to it (10 cases). Such results support the hypothesis that trigeminal neuralgia may be due to a compression of the trigeminal root at the pons entry zone. 
The 72-hour examination as a predictor of recovery in motor complete quadriplegia. Twenty-nine C4 to C7 motor-complete spinal cord injured subjects were evaluated to determine whether the manual muscle test (MMT) performed within 24 hours of injury or at 72 hours after injury better predicts short-term functional muscle recovery. A single muscle in the zone of injury that had a muscle grade between 1 and 3, inclusive, was evaluated serially in each patient from admission to three months. Increase in muscle strength to grade 4 or better was defined as success. Outcomes were evaluated by the Fisher exact test. Using the less-than-24-hour MMT, 12 of 17 subjects with grade 3 muscle strength vs four of 12 subjects with grade 1 or 2 muscle strength achieved success (p greater than .05). Using the 72-hour MMT, all 11 subjects with grade 3 muscle strength vs five of the 18 subjects with less than grade 3 muscle strength achieved success (p less than .001). Short-term functional muscle recovery in the zone of injury in cervical motor-complete quadriplegia is better predicted by the 72-hour MMT than by the less-than-24-hour MMT. 
Idiopathic myointimal hyperplasia of mesenteric veins. Nonthrombotic occlusion or stenosis of the mesenteric veins is a rare cause of intestinal ischemia that usually occurs in association with systemic vasculitis. The current report includes four male patients with segmental ischemic colitis caused by idiopathic myointimal hyperplasia in the small mesenteric veins and their intramural branches; neither vasculitis nor arterial involvement were present. Three of the four patients were less than or equal to 38 years of age; the fourth was 67. All four patients were previously healthy and had no history of drug use of any kind. Clinical findings included abdominal pain, diarrhea, bloody stools, and colonic strictures discovered by barium enema. The intima of the mesenteric and intestinal mural veins was focally thickened by a marked increase in cells and matrix between the endothelium and internal elastic lamina, whereas the vessel walls external to the thickened intima appeared normal. Histochemistry and immunoreactivity with antibodies to muscle-specific actins (HHF-35) disclosed that the intimal thickening was caused by proliferation of smooth muscle cells in a proteoglycan matrix. All patients recovered completely after segmental resection of the ischemic portion of the colon and had no recurrence of intestinal symptoms on follow-up of up to 7 years. These unusual venous lesions do not appear to have been previously described; their etiology and pathogenesis remain unknown. 
Recurrent spinal cord tethering by sacral nerve root following lipomyelomeningocele surgery. Case report. A 21-year-old woman had recurrent progressive weakness/hypesthesia and pain in both lower extremities. At the age of 5 and 19 years, she had undergone surgical resection of a lipomyelomeningocele at L5-S1. Surgical exploration revealed that the cord was tethered and pulled over to the side by an excessively short right S-1 nerve root. The contralateral L-5 and S-1 nerve roots were markedly stretched. Division of the right S-1 nerve root resulted in prompt disappearance of pain in the lower extremities and improvement in neurological function. 
Effects of recombinant human tumor necrosis factor on rodent gliomas and normal brain. In a study examining the possible therapeutic effects of recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (rHuTNF-alpha) on malignant gliomas without expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-receptors, RG-2 glioma cells were tested in vitro as well as in a rat experimental glioma model. A growth inhibition assay revealed no inhibiting effect in vitro up to a concentration of 20 micrograms/ml rHuTNF-alpha. Receptor-binding studies showed that RG-2 cells did not present specific receptors for rHuTNF-alpha. The pharmacokinetics of rHuTNF-alpha after intravenous injection were studied with respect to serum, tissue, and brain tumor concentrations and showed increased glioma concentrations of (mean +/- standard error of the mean) 0.47 +/- 0.18 ng TNF/mg brain compared to 0.15 +/- 0.05 ng TNF/mg brain in the normal contralateral hemisphere. No therapeutic effect on solid RG-2 gliomas could be observed after stereotactic injection of 7.3 micrograms rHuTNF/10 microliter buffer solution into the tumor in 10 animals. Immunohistochemical studies after stereotactic injection of rHuTNF-alpha showed total disappearance of the substance after 24 hours without internalization into tumor cells. Stereotactic injection of 7.3 micrograms rHuTNF 10 microliters into normal brain resulted in marked inflammatory response around the injection track, including microvascular thrombosis. These results demonstrate that rHuTNF has neither direct nor indirect cytotoxic activity on RG-2 glioma cells. Furthermore, before clinical use of rHuTNF-alpha in malignant gliomas, the authors suggest that receptor studies be done in each patient. In receptor-positive patients undergoing treatment with rHuTNF-alpha, precautions should be taken to prevent local encephalitic reactions. 
Mid-brain pathology of Wilson's disease: MRI analysis of three cases. MRI scans were obtained from three patients with Wilson's disease, all of whom showed rigidity and dysarthria; two also showed tremor and dystonia. Two had been treated with D-penicillamine for seven and 14 years, respectively and their neurological abnormalities had improved, but the third patient had not been treated. T2-weighted MRI of the mid-brain in all three revealed the characteristic "face of the giant panda" sign, consisting of high signal intensity in the tegmentum except for red nucleus, preservation of signal intensity of the lateral portion of the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra and hypo-intensity of the superior colliculus. The clinical significance of these MRI abnormalities is discussed. 
In vitro activities of acridone alkaloids against Pneumocystis carinii. Acridone alkaloids isolated from plants of the family Rutaceae have antiplasmodial activity in rodent models of malaria. Because a variety of antimalarial agents have also been shown to have activity against Pneumocystis carinii, we tested six of these alkaloids in an established culture model for P. carinii. Atalaphillinine and glycobismine A inhibited growth of cultured P. carinii at concentrations of 2.7 and 1.7 microM, respectively. This potency of effect is similar to that of chloroquine (3 microM) but somewhat less than that of primaquine (0.4 microM), which was previously evaluated in the same system. 
Survivorship analysis and confidence intervals. An assessment with reference to the Stanmore total knee replacement. Survivorship analysis is a useful way of expressing the long-term results of joint replacement: it provides a means of comparing the life span of one type of prosthesis with another. However, such studies should include a full life-table and the confidence intervals for the survival rates at given times. At least 40 surviving prostheses are required to provide reliable results. 
Proteus syndrome. Ultrastructural study of linear verrucous and depigmented nevi. Proteus syndrome is a rare hamartomatous disorder characterized by multifocal overgrowths that can involve any structure of the body. Clinical manifestations include macrodactyly, hemihypertrophy, subcutaneous masses, exostosis, cerebroid thickening of palms and soles, and linear skin lesions. About 50 cases have been described, but the ultrastructural features of the linear skin lesions have not been characterized. We describe the clinical, histologic, and ultrastructural findings for a 30-year-old patient who had a mild form of Proteus syndrome with linear lesions characterized by a mixed pattern of hyperkeratosis and depigmentation. Light microscopy of the linear nevus showed acanthosis and hyperorthokeratosis. Electron microscopy revealed extensive vacuolation at the interface between melanocytes and keratinocytes, with large aggregations of densely packed granules in the intercellular space. Melanocytes showed only slight degenerative changes. An immunohistochemical study of the expression of epidermal growth factor receptors revealed no significant abnormalities. 
An apparent cluster of congenital hypopituitarism in central Massachusetts: magnetic resonance imaging and hormonal studies. Between 1980 and 1989, five infants (four males and one female) with congenital hypopituitarism were born within a relatively sparsely populated area of central Massachusetts, an incidence 25-fold greater than expected. In all infants the pituitary stalk was undetectable on magnetic resonance imaging, and a bright spot on T-1 weighted imaging, probably representing posterior pituitary tissue, was found ectopically located inferior to the median eminence. The height of the anterior pituitary remnant on magnetic resonance imaging varied from undetectable to 4 mm, and similarly, on hormonal testing a spectrum of deficiencies of GH, TSH, ACTH, and gonadotropin was observed. The magnitude of the hypopituitarism was less in the three patients whose anterior pituitary remnant was greater than 2 mm, and in them, TRH testing resulted in exaggerated TSH and PRL responses, suggestive of hypothalamic disease. In contrast, in the other two patients in whom the anterior pituitary remnant was less than 2 mm in height, hypopituitarism was more severe, and TRH administration resulted in little if any TSH or PRL response, characteristic of pituitary disease. The size of the anterior pituitary remnant correlated significantly with that of the ectopic posterior pituitary bright spot (P less than 0.005). We conclude that patients with congenital hypopituitarism may exhibit a spectrum of hormonal responses, varying from findings typical of hypothalamic to those characteristic of primary pituitary disease. The pattern of hormonal responsiveness is dependent on the quantity of residual anterior pituitary tissue and probably results from abnormal transport of the hypothalamic hypophyseal releasing hormones rather than to any putative hypothalamic abnormality. The significant correlation between the size and function of the anterior pituitary gland and the size of the ectopic posterior pituitary remnant suggests that the fetal pituitary gland may secrete a factor necessary for the growth and descent of the neuroepithelium to form the infundibulum and posterior pituitary gland. 
Pediatric heart transplantation for congenital heart disease and cardiomyopathy. Orthotopic heart transplantation has become an accepted therapy for adult patients with end-stage heart disease. In newborns and infants, this procedure is still controversial because of the unknown long-term results and the lack of donor organs. Since March 1988, we have performed orthotopic heart transplantation in 11 infants and children with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (n = 6), cardiomyopathy (n = 4), or congenital endocardial fibroelastosis (n = 1). The smallest infant was 3 days old and weighed 2,650 g. Four of 15 potential donors had to be refused for various medical reasons, and 4 were transferred to our hospital for organ retrieval. Seven hearts were procured remotely. We accepted weight mismatches up to 105% between donor and recipient. There were three perioperative deaths, two in patients 5 and 17 days old with hypoplastic left heart syndrome and 1 in a 2-year-old patient with a dilated cardiomyopathy. All 3 patients had drug-resistant right heart failure. A 2-year-old girl with a dilated cardiomyopathy died 2 months after transplantation owing to severe pulmonary embolism originating from the superior vena cava. The remaining 7 patients are alive and well between 1 month and 31 months after transplantation. Angiographic follow-up has not revealed signs of graft atherosclerosis at 2 years. 
Metastatic basal cell carcinoma: report of twelve cases with a review of the literature. Metastatic basal cell carcinoma was found in 12 patients at the University of Wisconsin Mohs Surgery Clinic during the period 1936 to 1989. All patients were white men. The time of onset of the primary tumor ranged from childhood to 71 years. Eleven patients had previous treatment for basal cell carcinoma; two patients had received x-ray radiation to the face for teenage acne. The locations of the primary basal cell carcinomas were the face (n = 10), back (n = 1), and arm (n = 1). The primary tumors ranged from 3.6 x 3.0 to 20.0 x 7.0 cm. The interval from onset to the first sign of metastases ranged from 7 to 34 years. In all cases, the primary tumor was histologically identical to the metastatic lesion. Perineural extension of the basal cell carcinoma in the primary lesion was found in five cases. Regional lymph nodes were the most frequent site of metastasis. Treatment consisted of a combination of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Only two patients survived more than 5 years after surgical treatment. One patient has survived 25 years and is still alive. 
Complete external iliac artery disruption after percutaneous aortic valvuloplasty in two young children: successful repair with hypogastric artery transposition. The majority of vascular injuries in young children are iatrogenic. This is a report of two complete external iliac artery disruptions occurring during percutaneous transfemoral balloon aortic valvuloplasty in a 2-year-old and a 5-year-old child. The damaged external iliac artery was bypassed by extensively mobilizing the hypogastric surgery and rotating it upward to anastomose it to the proximal common femoral artery. Normal limb pulses, function, and growth were noted in follow-up. 
Sarcomatous change in a teratoma after treatment of testicular carcinoma. Treatment can transform the metastases of nonseminomatous germ cell carcinoma into histologically mature teratoma. These lesions typically have a benign clinical course. The authors present a case of leiomyosarcoma occurring within such a lesion. It arose 18 years after therapy for metastatic embryonal carcinoma of the testis and appears to have been radiation induced. 
Embolization of cardiac myxomas masquerading as polyarteritis nodosa. Cardiac myxomas are rare tumors which can mimic other diseases. We describe a 19-year-old man who presented clinically with polyarteritis nodosa (PAN). Muscle biopsy showed vasculitis, but corticosteroid and immunosuppressive therapy was initially effective. Cardiac myxomas were found by echocardiogram when the disease relapsed and were resected surgically. Segmental arterial aneurysms and stenoses were found on angiography after leg ischemia. We suggest that echocardiography should be performed in all cases of clinically suspected PAN. 
Streptococcus salivarius meningitis and colonic carcinoma. Streptococcus salivarius caused fulminant meningitis in an elderly patient. A gastrointestinal diagnostic workup revealed an asymptomatic colonic adenocarcinoma. This first reported instance of S salivarius sepsis associated with a colonic neoplasm is not unexpected, since the organism is bacteriologically similar to S bovis, the prime bacterial indicator of occult malignancy. Exact speciation of streptococcal strains is fraught with technical difficulties, and gastrointestinal investigation may be warranted in an expanded variety of streptococcal infections. 
Acute bronchitis in children: building a clinical definition. Much about acute bronchitis in children is uncertain, even its definition. This study was undertaken to help build a clinical definition to serve as a guide for further research. Charts of 180 children 1 to 12 years old were reviewed. Each had received a diagnosis of acute bronchitis (54 patients), upper respiratory infection with a cough (128 patients), or a new diagnosis of asthma (26 patients) during the previous 12 months. A history of sputum production (odds ration 25.0, p = 0.0001), the finding of rales or rhonchi on examination (OR 11.6, p less than 0.0001), and a past history of lower respiratory illness (OR 3.0, p = 0.01) were associated with a diagnosis of acute bronchitis, but fever and duration of illness were not. In addition, the diagnosis of acute bronchitis was strongly associated with a prescription for an antibiotic. In a child with a cough, acute bronchitis is more likely to be diagnosed if there is a history of sputum production, rales or rhonchi on examination, and a past history of lower respiratory disease. 
Shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones: results and 12-month follow-up in 174 patients. At the authors' institution, as part of the on-going Dornier National Biliary Lithotripsy Study, 174 patients with gallstones were randomly assigned to receive either ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) or placebo for 6 months after undergoing extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL). Six weeks after ESWL, 40 (23%) patients were re-treated for gallstone fragments larger than 5 mm in diameter. No significant difference in the UDCA- and placebo-treated patients was noted. The overall 6- and 12-month stone-free rates for all patients with initially noncalcified stones were as follows: UDCA patients, 31% and 36%, respectively, and placebo patients, 21% and 23%, respectively (P less than .05). In patients with a single, noncalcified gallstone that was at most 20 mm in diameter, the 12-month stone-free rates were as follows: UDCA patients, 60%, and placebo patients, 33% (P less than .01). Patients with noncalcified stones that were 11-20 mm in diameter who were treated with UDCA had a higher rate of stone clearance than placebo patients. At 6 months, the authors' previous study demonstrated no significant difference in the two groups of patients. However, the stone-free rate at 12 months was noted to be significantly higher for patients with a single, noncalcified stone that was at most 20 mm in diameter begun on UDCA than for all other groups of patients. 
In vivo thrombin inhibition enhances and sustains arterial recanalization with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. The effects of heparin and the synthetic competitive thrombin inhibitor (2R,4R)-4-methyl-1-[N2-(3-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-8-quinolinesulfon yl)-L-arginyl]-2-piperidinecarboxylic acid monohydrate (Argatroban) on thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was studied in groups of six or seven rabbits with arterial thrombosis. The model consisted of a whole-blood clot produced in a 1-cm isolated femoral arterial segment with superimposed endothelial damage and distal high-grade stenosis. rt-PA was injected as an intravenous bolus of 0.45 mg/kg body wt at 15-minute intervals until recanalization, or up to a maximum of four boluses. In seven rabbits given an intravenous injection of 17 mg/kg aspirin, rt-PA induced transient reflow in only one animal. In seven rabbits that received intravenous heparin (200 units/kg over 60 minutes), rt-PA administration produced reflow in five animals, which was persistent in two rabbits. Combined administration of aspirin and heparin in seven rabbits was associated with similar rt-PA-induced recanalization. rt-PA administration in six rabbits given intravenous Argatroban (100 micrograms/kg/min for 60 minutes) caused recanalization in five, with persistent patency in three. In six rabbits given aspirin and Argatroban, rt-PA caused recanalization in all, with persistent patency in five animals. Reflow occurred significantly more rapidly with Argatroban (14 +/- 7 minutes) than with heparin (35 +/- 11 minutes), reflow was obtained with fewer boluses of rt-PA in combination with Argatroban (median value of one bolus) than with heparin (median value, three boluses), and reocclusion after reflow was less frequent with Argatroban (0 of 11 versus 5 of 10 rabbits). Furthermore, the degree of thrombolysis determined by pathological analysis was significantly more extensive with Argatroban than with heparin, and patency persisted during a 3-hour observation period, despite elimination of Argatroban from the circulation. Thus, Argatroban, relative to heparin, enhances and sustains thrombolysis with rt-PA. It may offer promise as an adjunctive agent for thrombolytic therapy of arterial thrombosis. 
The use of color flow mapping for intraoperative assessment of valve repair. Repair procedures that preserve a patient's native valve are associated with a lower perioperative and late mortality, a lower incidence of thromboembolic events, and better preservation of left ventricular function than prosthetic replacement. Traditionally employed procedures for intraoperative assessment of the adequacy of repair, such as fluid injection into the arrested ventricle for assessment of valve leakage, measurement of atrial pressure and height of V-waves, and palpation of the atria for the presence of systolic thrills, have not proved to be reliable approaches in the intraoperative evaluation of mitral and tricuspid regurgitation and in the assessment of the adequacy of repair procedures. Intraoperative color Doppler, using either the epicardial or the transesophageal approach, offers rapid and accurate information about the presence and severity of mitral regurgitation at the time of surgery. This technique provides instantaneous evaluation of the adequacy of mitral and tricuspid valvuloplasty and appears capable of predicting postoperative outcome. Intraoperative color Doppler is useful for evaluation of the adequacy of repair before chest closure and may thus help to avoid the need for reoperation. This approach may ultimately allow valve repair procedures to be performed in greater numbers of patients with better control over outcome and with lower reoperation rates. 
Histological diagnosis of intestinal microsporidiosis in patients with AIDS. Fifty nine patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and diarrhoea and 20 with weight loss were investigated for microsporidiosis using light and electron microscopical examination of duodenal and jejunal biopsy specimens. Eight cases of microsporidiosis were found, in five of whom it was the sole pathogen. In all eight cases the organism was identified at light microscopy without prior knowledge of the electron microscopical findings. All stages of the life cycle are best seen in resin sections cut at 1 micron and stained with Giemsa, but spores could easily be identified in paraffin sections cut at 5 microns and stained with haematoxylin and eosin. In all cases the parasite was identified both in duodenal pinch and jejunal "Crosby" capsule biopsy specimens. All cases of microsporidiosis occurred in patients with diarrhoea. Both electron and light microscopical examination suggested that the pathogenic mechanism involves the shedding of infected enterocytes containing large numbers of spores. It is suggested that the optimal way to diagnose microsporidiosis is by light microscopical examination of duodenal pinch biopsy specimens. 
Spontaneous haematomyelia: a necropsy study. Spontaneous haematomyelia (intramedullary spinal haematoma), is an uncommon event. Predisposing conditions have been reported including syringomyelia, pregnancy and delivery, angioma, spinal artery aneurysm, and haemophilia, but only rarely has a pathological evaluation been performed. Two such cases studied at necropsy are reported. In one case, the haematoma was restricted to the cervical spinal cord, while in the second case it extended from the medulla into the lowest thoracic cord segments. In both cases the haematomyelia was fatal. In the first case the clinical course was subacute, but in the other the course was more acute. Careful neuropathological examination showed no apparent cause for the haemorrhages. 
Fluid distribution and pulmonary dysfunction following burn shock. Respiratory function and body fluid changes were measured in 46 burned patients for up to 7 days postburn (DPB). The patients in this prospective study were divided into an HLS group [n = 17, burn size 61 +/- 0.5% BSA (mean +/- SEM), resuscitated with hypertonic lactated saline] and an iso-Na group (n = 29, burn size 60 +/- 4.5% BSA, resuscitated with lactated Ringer's solution). During DPB 3 to 5, the Respiratory Index (A-aDO2/PaO2), functional extracellular fluid volume (f-ECFV), an ratio of plasma volume to interstitial fluid volume (PV/ISFV) were increased in the iso-Na group compared with the HLS group. During the same period, the Respiratory Index and PV/ISFV correlated significantly; respiratory dysfunction was less in the HLS group. Nearly 50% of the iso-Na group required endotracheal intubation. Sodium loads were the same in both groups; the HLS group required less water. These results suggest that extracellular fluid distribution differs between the two treatments; HLS may be associated with ameliorated respiratory function not only because of less volume loading during resuscitation, but also because the PV/ISFV ratio is less than when lactated Ringer's is administered. 
Carotid baroreceptor function in dogs with chronic norepinephrine infusion. Carotid baroreceptor function, the compliance of the carotid sinus wall, and the structure of the carotid artery were examined in dogs with elevated plasma norepinephrine (2,000-4,000 pg/ml) for 28 days. The dogs with high norepinephrine were normotensive (100 +/- 4.0 versus 98 +/- 4.0 mm Hg; p greater than 0.05) with bradycardia (65 +/- 4.0 versus 87 +/- 16 beats/min; p less than 0.05) compared with normal dogs in the conscious state. However, after pentobarbital anesthesia blood pressure was significantly higher in dogs with chronic norepinephrine infusion (165 +/- 6 mm Hg) compared with normal dogs (132 +/- 6 mm Hg). To assess baroreceptor sensitivity, multiunit carotid baroreceptor activity was recorded from the right carotid sinus nerve, and the carotid sinus wall compliance (sonomicrometers) was measured during nitroglycerin and phenylephrine injections. The threshold and saturation pressures increased from 96 +/- 3.9 to 117 +/- 4.2 mm Hg and from 145 +/- 4.3 to 171 +/- 5.7 mm Hg, respectively, in the normal dogs compared with the high norepinephrine dogs. The most striking differences were the marked increases in sensitivity of carotid baroreceptors (0.47 +/- 0.05 versus 1.99 +/- 0.45 spikes.sec-1.mm Hg-1; p less than 0.01) and maximum firing frequency of the baroreceptors (24 +/- 3.1 versus 48 +/- 4.4 spikes/sec; p less than 0.01), whereas the carotid sinus wall compliance was unchanged (0.014 +/- 0.003 versus 0.012 +/- 0.002 mm/mm Hg; p greater than 0.05). Similar alterations were observed using single fiber recordings, that is, an increase in threshold and saturation pressures and slope of baroreceptor units in dogs with elevated norepinephrine. The wall thickness and area of the carotid artery were determined. Both increased significantly (0.77 +/- 0.06 versus 1.30 +/- 0.12 mm and 9.0 +/- 0.8 versus 11.9 +/- 0.9 mm2; p less than 0.05) in dogs chronically infused with norepinephrine while the dry weight-to-wet weight ratio of left carotid artery tissue also increased from 26.0 +/- 0.73% to 29.0 +/- 0.57%. These studies indicate that 1) one of the possible mechanisms responsible for bradycardia in the conscious dogs with high norepinephrine is enhanced sensitivity of carotid baroreceptors; 2) the enhanced sensitivity of carotid baroreceptors is not due to a change in compliance of the carotid sinus wall; and 3) chronic elevation of norepinephrine causes hypertrophy or hyperplasia of the wall of the common carotid artery. 
A unique mutation in the vitamin D receptor gene in three Japanese patients with vitamin D-dependent rickets type II: utility of single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis for heterozygous carrier detection. Vitamin D-dependent rickets type II is a hereditary disease resulting from a defective vitamin D receptor. In three Japanese patients with vitamin D-dependent rickets type II whose fibroblasts displayed normal cytosol binding and impaired nuclear uptake of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, western, Southern, and northern analyses failed to disclose any abnormalities in vitamin D3 receptor protein and its gene. Exons 2 and 3 of the vitamin D receptor cDNA, which encode the DNA-binding domain consisting of two zinc fingers, were amplified by PCR and sequenced to identify the specific mutations in the vitamin D receptor gene. In the three patients and one normal control a T-to-C transition was found in the putative initiation codon, while this transition was not observed in another normal control. This finding suggested that an original initiation codon was located at positions 10-12 in the human vitamin D receptor cDNA sequence reported previously. In contrast, a unique G-to-A transition at position 140 in exon 3, resulting in substitution of arginine by glutamine at residue 47, was revealed only in these three patients. The arginine at 47 is located between two zinc fingers and is conserved within all steroid hormone receptors. Therefore, it is highly conceivable that this amino acid substitution is responsible for the defect of the vitamin D receptor in the patients. Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of amplified DNA confirmed that all patients were homozygous and that parents from one family were heterozygous carriers for this mutation. 
Patients admitted to the emergency room with symptoms indicative of acute myocardial infarction. All 7157 patients (55% men) admitted to the emergency room with chest pain or other symptoms indicative of acute myocardial infarction during a period of 21 months were registered consecutively. Chest pain was reported by 93% of the patients. On the basis of history, clinical examination, and electrocardiogram in the emergency room, all patients were prospectively classified in one of four categories: (i) obvious infarction (4% of all patients); (ii) strongly suspected infarction (20%); (iii) vague suspicion of infarction (35%); and (iv) no suspected infarction (41%). In patients with no suspected infarction (n = 2910), musculoskeletal (26%), obscure (21%) and psychogenic origins (16%) of the symptoms occurred most frequently. We conclude that few of the patients had an obvious infarction on admission, and that a musculoskeletal origin of the symptoms occurred most frequently in patients with no suspected infarction. 
Maintenance therapy with sucralfate in duodenal ulcer: genuine prevention or accelerated healing of ulcer recurrence? We sought to compare the efficacy of sucralfate to placebo for the prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence and to determine that the efficacy of sucralfate was due to a true reduction in ulcer prevalence and not due to secondary effects such as analgesic activity or accelerated healing. This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel groups, multicenter clinical study with 254 patients. All patients had a past history of at least two duodenal ulcers with at least one ulcer diagnosed by endoscopic examination 3 months or less before the start of the study. Complete ulcer healing without erosions was required to enter the study. Sucralfate or placebo were dosed as a 1-g tablet twice a day for 4 months, or until ulcer recurrence. Endoscopic examinations once a month and when symptoms developed determined the presence or absence of duodenal ulcers. If a patient developed an ulcer between monthly scheduled visits, the patient was dosed with a 1-g sucralfate tablet twice a day until the next scheduled visit. Statistical analyses of the results determined the efficacy of sucralfate compared with placebo for preventing duodenal ulcer recurrence. Comparisons of therapeutic agents for preventing duodenal ulcers have usually been made by testing for statistical differences in the cumulative rates for all ulcers developed during a follow-up period, regardless of the time of detection. Statistical experts at the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and on the FDA Advisory Panel expressed doubts about clinical study results based on this type of analysis. They suggested three possible mechanisms for reducing the number of observed ulcers: (a) analgesic effects, (b) accelerated healing, and (c) true ulcer prevention. Traditional ulcer analysis could miss recurring ulcers due to an analgesic effect or accelerated healing. Point-prevalence analysis could miss recurring ulcers due to accelerated healing between endoscopic examinations. Maximum ulcer analyses, a novel statistical method, eliminated analgesic effects by regularly scheduled endoscopies and accelerated healing of recurring ulcers by frequent endoscopies and an open-label phase. Maximum ulcer analysis reflects true ulcer recurrence and prevention. Sucralfate was significantly superior to placebo in reducing ulcer prevalence by all analyses. Significance (p less than 0.05) was found at months 3 and 4 for all analyses. All months were significant in the traditional analysis, months 2-4 in point-prevalence analysis, and months 3-4 in the maximal ulcer prevalence analysis. Sucralfate was shown to be effective for the prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence by a true reduction in new ulcer development. 
Predicting the outcomes of electrophysiologic studies of patients with unexplained syncope: preliminary validation of a derived model. PURPOSE: To develop and validate a predictive model that would allow clinicians to determine whether an electrophysiologic (EP) study is likely to result in useful diagnostic information for a patient who has unexplained syncope. PATIENTS: One hundred seventy-nine consecutive patients with unexplained syncope who underwent EP studies at two university medical centers comprised the training sample. A test sample to validate the model was made up of 138 patients from the clinical literature who had undergone EP studies for syncope. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients undergoing EP studies for syncope. The data collector was blinded to the study hypothesis; the electrophysiologist assessing outcomes was blinded to clinical and historical data. Clinical predictor variables available from the history, the physical examination, electrocardiography (ECG), and Holter monitoring were analyzed via two multivariable predictive modeling strategies (ordinal logistic regression and recursive partitioning) for their abilities to predict the results of EP studies, namely tachyarrhythmic and bradyarrhythmic outcomes. These categories were further divided into full arrhythmia and borderline arrhythmia groups. RESULTS: Important outcomes were 1) sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) and 2) bradyarrhythmias, including sinus node and atrioventricular (AV) conducting disease. The results of the logistic regression (in this study, the superior strategy) showed that the presence of organic heart disease [odds ratio (OR) = 3.0, p less than 0.001] and frequent premature ventricular contractions on ECG (OR = 6.7, p less than 0.004) were associated with VT, while the following abnormal ECG findings were associated with bradyarrhythmias: first-degree heart block (OR = 7.9, p less than 0.001), bundle-branch block (OR = 3.0, p less than 0.02), and sinus bradycardia (OR = 3.5, p less than 0.03). Eighty-seven percent of the 31 patients with important outcomes at EP study had at least one of these clinical risk factors, while 95% of the patients with none of these risk factors had normal or nondiagnostic EP studies. In the validation sample, the presence of one or more risk factors would have correctly identified 88% of the test VT patients and 65% of the test bradyarrhythmia patients as needing EP study. CONCLUSION: These five identified predictive factors, available from the history, the physical examination, and the initial ECG, could be useful to clinicians in selecting those patients with unexplained syncope who will have a serious arrhythmia identified by EP studies. 
Early abdominal complications following heart and heart-lung transplantation. In the first 11 years of the heart and heart-lung transplantation programme at Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, 356 patients underwent heart transplantation, and 73 patients received both heart and lungs. Out of 429 patients 41 (9.5 per cent) developed abdominal complications within the first 30 days, and 20 of the 41 required surgery. The complications included pancreatitis (10), peptic ulceration (8), and pseudo-obstruction (8), in addition to colonic perforation and small bowel obstruction. When laparotomy was performed it was well tolerated. This paper supports the view that successful management of abdominal complications following transplantation requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. Where doubt exists in the presence of an acute abdomen, laparotomy is the appropriate way to establish a definitive diagnosis. 
Treatment failure of genital condylomata acuminata in women: role of the male sexual partner. The male sexual partners of women with genital condylomata acuminata are thought to be carriers of human papillomaviruses. It is therefore often recommended that both sexual partners be treated. We studied 360 women with genital warts to test the hypothesis that when the male partners of women with condylomata acuminata are treated, the treatment failure rate decreases. The male sexual partners of 180 of these women were examined and, if indicated, treated (treatment group). The 180 remaining male sexual partners were neither examined nor treated (control group). One hundred twenty-two (68%) men in the treatment group had human papillomavirus-associated lesions. The treatment failure rate of women was 16.7% in the treatment group and 18.9% in the control group. The difference is not statistically significant (p greater than 0.05). The results of this study do not support the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate of women with condylomata acuminata decreases if their male sexual partners are also treated. 
Thoracic epidural analgesia in a patient with bilateral phaeochromocytoma undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. A patient suffering from phaeochromocytoma and coronary artery stenoses needed coronary artery bypass grafting before adrenalectomy. High thoracic epidural analgesia (T1-T2) with bupivacaine and sufentanil in combination with general anaesthesia was used. Plasma adrenaline and noradrenaline concentrations decreased during the period before bypass grafting compared to the baseline value and no important haemodynamic changes were seen during this period. Thoracic epidural analgesia failed to suppress the release of catecholamine during the bypass period. After the operation, the plasma catecholamine concentrations returned to the baseline value. Excellent analgesia (visual analogue scale = 1-2) was achieved with a postoperative epidural, but the plasma catecholamine concentration increased considerably. 
Encephalo-myelo-radiculo-ganglionitis presenting as pandysautonomia. A 68-year-old man developed pandysautonomia with severe orthostatic dysfunction, fixed heart rate, low serum levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine, absent sympathetic skin responses, and pupillary abnormalities. CSF protein was 92 mg/dl. In spite of a good recovery following corticosteroid administration, a relapse occurred, with accompanying sensory symptoms confined to both arms. Fatal sudden cardiac arrest occurred after 4 months. Autopsy revealed numerous lymphocytic infiltrates, predominantly in autonomic and sensory ganglia and, to a lesser extent, in the nerve roots, spinal cord, and brainstem without evidence for an underlying tumor. This case provides histopathologic evidence for an inflammatory etiology of panautonomic neuropathy in some patients. 
Value of serum alkaline phosphatase and radionuclide bone scans in patients with renal cell carcinoma. Ninety-one patients who underwent radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) were reviewed to determine the prognostic value of serum alkaline phosphatase (SAP) levels and radionuclide bone scan. A preoperative SAP greater than 127 IU/L was a strong indicator of eventual disease progression or death, and an elevated SAP was a better predictor of eventual outcome than bone scan. 
Poikilothermia in man: pathophysiology and clinical implications. Poikilothermia, the inability to maintain a constant core temperature independent of ambient temperature, markedly influences both the mental and physical function of affected patients; furthermore, prolonged hypothermia can induce numerous complications. To establish the pathophysiology of thermoregulation underlying poikilothermia in man, we compared 4 women with acquired poikilothermia, with 9 female control subjects. The activity of the main thermoregulatory effector mechanisms was assessed in a thermoneutral environment, and during subsequent cold stress and heat exposure. At thermoneutrality the patients had a significantly lower rectal temperature and resting metabolic rate compared with the controls; no patient showed peripheral vasoconstriction or shivering. Cooling revealed markedly reduced peripheral vasoconstriction in 3 patients and failure of the metabolic response in 2 patients; unlike controls, no patient exhibited shivering. Heat challenge revealed severely reduced capacity for heat dissipation in all patients. We conclude that in patients with poikilothermia, the mechanisms for both heat conservation and heat dissipation are seriously attenuated. Careful monitoring of the core temperature and adequate measures to maintain normothermia are of great importance in patients with poikilothermia in order to provide adequate treatment, improve the quality of life, and prevent serious complications. 
Second radical neck dissection. We report a series of 96 patients (62 men and 34 women) undergoing a second radical neck dissection for enlarged contralateral cervical nodes after primary treatment of a squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, including an ipsilateral radical neck dissection. The proportion of patients requiring a second later neck dissection varied from 0% for tumours of the nasopharynx, nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, to 5% for tumours of the hypopharynx. The incidence of second neck dissection was not determined by the original T stage of the primary tumour, but patients with enlarged nodes at presentation were 5 times more likely to need a second neck dissection than those with no palpable nodes at presentation. Also, patients with a poorly differentiated tumour were twice as likely to need a second neck dissection as those with a well differentiated tumour. The overall 5-year survival after second neck dissection was 35% and the perioperative mortality 1.92%. Significant factors predicting survival after a second neck dissection were the time to recurrence, the clinical neck node status at recurrence, the number of histologically invaded nodes in the neck and the presence of extra-nodal disease. 
Temporal arteritis: an atypical presentation. Temporal (giant cell) arteritis is a systemic granulomatous vasculitis primarily involving branches of the carotid arteries in patients aged 50 years and greater. Its classic symptoms and signs are headache and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), but this is not the only presentation. This case is the first reported in a Korean, whose chief complaint was pain in the tongue and headaches and whose ESR was normal. The diagnosis was confirmed by biopsy. Her symptoms abated when treated with prednisone, but she developed diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, and compression fracture of lumbar vertebrae while being treated. Primary physicians should become aware of the atypical features of this disease, as well as the potential complications of treatment. 
Coronary bypass surgery improves global and regional left ventricular function following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. TAMI Study Group. Coronary bypass surgery was performed prior to hospital discharge in 303 (22%) of 1387 consecutive patients enrolled in the TAMI 1 to 3 and 5 trials of intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Bypass surgery was of emergency nature (less than 24 hours from treatment with intravenous thrombolytic therapy) in 36 (2.6%) and was deferred (greater than 24 hours) in 267 (19.3%) patients. The indications for bypass surgery included failed angioplasty (12%); left main or equivalent coronary disease (9%); complex or multivessel coronary disease (62%); recurrent postinfarction angina (13%); and refractory pump dysfunction, mitral regurgitation, ventricular septal rupture or abnormal predischarge functional test (1% each). Although patients having bypass surgery were older (59.5 +/- 9.8 versus 56.0 +/- 10.2 years, (p less than 0.0001), had more extensive coronary artery disease (46% with three-vessel disease versus 11%, (p less than 0.0001), had more frequent diabetes mellitus (19% versus 15%, (p = 0.048), had more prior infarctions (p less than 0.0001), had more severe initial depression in global left ventricular ejection fraction (48.0 +/- 11.9% versus 51.8 +/- 11.9%, p = 0.0002), and regional infarct zone (-2.7 +/- 0.94 versus -2.5 +/- 1.1 SD/chord, p = 0.02) and noninfarct zone function (-0.36 +/- 1.8 versus 0.43 +/- 1.6 SD/chord, p less than 0.0001) than patients not having coronary bypass surgery, no difference in the incidence of death in hospital (7% surgical versus 6% nonsurgical) or death at long-term follow-up of hospital survivors (7% surgical versus 6% nonsurgical) was noted between groups. Surgical patients demonstrated a greater degree of recovery in left ventricular ejection fraction (3.4 +/- 9.8% versus 0.16 +/- 8.5%, p = 0.036) and infarct zone regional function (0.71 +/- 1.1 versus 0.34 +/- 0.99 SD/chord, p = 0.001) when immediate (90 minutes following initiation of thrombolytic therapy) and predischarge (7 to 14 days after treatment) contrast left ventriculograms were compared than did patients who received only intravenous thrombolytic therapy with or without coronary angioplasty. These data suggest a beneficial influence of coronary bypass surgery on left ventricular function and possibly on the clinical outcome of patients initially treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. 
The endocrine effects of long-term treatment with mifepristone (RU 486). Mifepristone (RU 486) is a compound with progesterone as well as cortisol-blocking activities. We investigated the endocrine effects of long-term therapy of 10 patients with meningiomas with 200 mg mifepristone daily for 1 yr. Most patients initially complained of nausea, vomiting, and/or tiredness. In four patients prednisone (7.5 mg/day) had to be given simultaneously in order to overcome these side-effects. In retrospect those patients who presented with the most severe side-effects showed the most rapidly occurring activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal-axis, as measured by an increase of circulating cortisol levels as well as of urinary cortisol excretion. Therapy with RU 486 activated the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, resulting in a resetting of this system at a higher level at which the diurnal rhythm and the responsiveness to CRH stimulation were maintained, whereas the sensitivity to dexamethasone had diminished. Secondarily the production of androstenedione and estradiol increased considerably. These endocrine changes were caused by the induction of partial cortisol receptor resistance during therapy with RU 486. The compensatory overproduction of androgens and consequently of estrogens during long-term RU 486 therapy might limit its use as a single treatment in the treatment of estrogen-dependent cancer. 
Septic shock and multiple organ failure. OBJECTIVE: To assess the frequency and mortality rates of septic shock in ICU patients and the clinical course of multiple organ failure associated with septic shock. DESIGN: Retrospective case survey. SETTING: Tertiary care center. PATIENTS: During a 2-yr period, 2,469 consecutive intensive care patients were studied regarding the frequency and hospital mortality rates of septic shock. A subset of 1,311 patients was further analyzed for the occurrence of organ system failures within 48 hrs of the onset of septic shock and again 4 to 7 days later. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The frequency rate of septic shock was 1.9% (n = 48), with a mortality rate of 72.9% (n = 35) in patients with septic shock. Deaths due to septic shock represented 14.6% of all deaths in the ICU during the study period. Eighteen patients died within 72 hrs of the onset of septic shock. Refractory hypotension was the cause of death in 15 of these 18 patients. Beyond 72 hrs, multiple organ failure accounted for eight of 17 deaths. The mean +/- SD number of organ systems failing at 48 hrs was 3.3 +/- 1.3 in survivors and 4.0 +/- 1.1 in nonsurvivors, and at 4 to 7 days was 2.1 +/- 1.5 in survivors and 4.0 +/- 1.5 in nonsurvivors (p less than .05). None of the specific organ system failures had prognostic value. The number of organ system failures was not related to the duration of hypotension, but had a weak correlation (r2 = .26, p less than .05) with the duration of vasoactive treatment at 4 to 7 days. The prolonged need for norepinephrine therapy was associated with an increased occurrence of renal failure. Thirty (62.5%) patients had positive blood cultures and a mortality rate similar to the mortality rate of patients with negative blood cultures. Patients with negative blood cultures died more often with hypotension (p less than .02). CONCLUSIONS: Septic shock is a major cause of death in intensive care patients. Refractory hypotension is a main cause of early deaths. Later on, multiple organ failure becomes the primary clinical problem and cause of mortality. 
Duplex ultrasound in the assessment of vascular disease in clinical hypertension. Duplex ultrasound combines B-mode imaging and pulsed Doppler flow analysis and is rapidly becoming the most useful and widely applied method for the evaluation of atherosclerotic arterial disease. Recent technical improvements including color flow Doppler allow its application to practically all vascular beds in the body. Duplex is noninvasive and in many areas its accuracy in the detection of arterial stenosis and occlusion rivals angiography. Duplex ultrasound has become the preferred method of evaluation of patients with cerebrovascular disease. It provides information about the degree of stenosis, location of disease, and plaque characterization, and in many cases replaces standard cerebral arteriography. Duplex ultrasound has been used to detect renal artery stenosis in patients suspected of having renovascular hypertension with an accuracy of 93% in the diagnosis of hemodynamically significant stenosis. It also has important applications in the assessment of mesenteric artery stenosis, peripheral vascular disease, and venous disease. Because it is accurate, reasonably inexpensive, and noninvasive, duplex ultrasound can be used to follow the progression of untreated atherosclerotic lesions throughout the body. Used in this fashion, it provides important information about the natural history of atherosclerotic lesions, their clinical prognosis, and the effect of interventions, either medical or surgical, on lesions. 
Granulocytic sarcoma of the ovary. An unusual case presentation. We report an unusual occurrence of granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an ovarian mass in a 46-year-old woman with a history of dysplastic nevus syndrome. During workup of the ovarian mass, the diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukemia was made. A fine-needle aspirate of the ovarian mass showed granulocytic sarcoma. The patient died of complications of the acute leukemia a short time later. A postmortem examination was performed, which confirmed the nature of the ovarian mass as a granulocytic sarcoma. Material was obtained for flow cytometry, immunohistochemical and histochemical studies, and electron microscopy. Ploidy analysis of the tumor showed it to be diploid with an S phase of 4.8% and a G2 + M ratio of 0.5%. To our knowledge, there is only one previous report of a primary ovarian presentation of granulocytic sarcoma, and only four cases in which granulocytic sarcoma was diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration cytology. The association between dysplastic nevus syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in this case is discussed with reference to a review of the metachronous association between melanoma and leukemia as described in the literature. 
Antigen-provoked increase in histamine reactivity. Observations on mechanisms. To investigate the effect of antigen provocation on nonspecific reactivity to histamine, nine allergic individuals underwent multiple nasal challenges with histamine, or antigen. The response to challenge was assessed by counting the number of sneezes and measuring the levels of albumin and TAME-esterase (TAME; [3H]N-alpha-tosyl-L-arginine methyl ester) activity in recovered nasal lavages. In the case of antigen, levels of histamine were also measured. In response to histamine, the subjects sneezed and had increased levels of albumin and TAME. The responses to antigen or histamine were unchanged 24 h after histamine provocation. The responses to histamine provocations were increased with respect to symptom scores and to the levels of TAME activity and albumin in nasal lavages compared to baseline challenge, however, 24 h after antigen provocation. Increasing antigen exposure from 1 to 3 days did not further increase the responsiveness to histamine. Histamine reactivity returned to baseline 12 days after antigen exposure. The number of eosinophils, neutrophils, and alcian blue-positive cells in the lavages after antigen challenge and before the histamine challenges correlated with the changes in response to histamine. The increase in sneezing induced by antigen stimulation correlated with the increase in the same parameter after histamine provocation 24 hr after antigen challenge (r = 0.88; p less than 0.01). Surprisingly, the other parameters assessed did not show similar correlations. 
Capnography for detection of endobronchial migration of an endotracheal tube. A patient is described in whom migration of an endotracheal tube into the right main bronchus was suspected when end-tidal carbon dioxide suddenly decreased from 28 to 22 mm Hg. Acute changes with migration of the endotracheal tube into the main bronchus were also studied in an animal experimental model. End-tidal carbon dioxide decreased and tracheal (inflation) pressure increased, with no change in tidal volume. Arterial blood gases showed time-dependent decreases in pH and oxygen tension and an increase in carbon dioxide tension. 
Treatment of migraine attacks with sumatriptan. The Subcutaneous Sumatriptan International Study Group BACKGROUND. The headache in migraine attacks may be caused by dilatation of certain cranial arteries or arteriovenous anastomoses, by neurogenic dural plasma extravasation, or by both of these mechanisms. Sumatriptan, a novel selective agonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like receptors, blocks these phenomena. We investigated its efficacy in migraine. METHODS. We studied 639 patients with migraine attacks in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group clinical trial. We assessed the effect of subcutaneous injections of 6 or 8 mg of sumatriptan or placebo on the severity of headache and associated migrane symptoms 30, 60, and 120 minutes after treatment. Patients who were not free of pain after 60 minutes subsequently received placebo if they had initially received placebo or 8 mg of sumatriptan, and 6 mg of sumatriptan or placebo if they had initially received 6 mg of sumatriptan. RESULTS. After 60 minutes, the severity of headache was decreased in 72 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 68 to 76 percent) of the 422 patients given 6 mg of sumatriptan, 79 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 71 to 87 percent) of the 109 patients given 8 mg of sumatriptan, and 25 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 17 to 33 percent) of the 105 patients given placebo (data on 3 patients could not be evaluated). As compared with the placebo group, 47 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 38 to 57 percent) more patients who had received 6 mg of sumatriptan and 54 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 43 to 65 percent) more patients who had received 8 mg of sumatriptan had a decrease in the severity of headache (P less than 0.001 for both comparisons). After 120 minutes, 86 to 92 percent of the 511 patients treated with sumatriptan (202 assigned to 6 mg plus placebo, 203 to 6 mg plus 6 mg, and 106 to 8 mg plus placebo) had improvement in the severity of headache, as compared with only 37 percent of the 104 patients who received placebo once or twice (P less than 0.001 for all comparisons). Twenty-one patients were excluded from the analysis because of missing data (19) or protocol violations (2). The response rates did not differ significantly among the sumatriptan regimens. Adverse events were minor and transient in all groups. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that a single 6-mg dose of sumatriptan given subcutaneously is a highly effective, rapid-acting, and well-tolerated treatment for migrane attacks. The administration of a second dose 60 minutes later to patients not responding well to an initial dose affords little additional benefit. 
Evaluation of neck lymph node dissection for thoracic esophageal carcinoma We studied a series of 150 patients treated for thoracic esophageal carcinoma at our institution. The patients were divided into two matched groups. Group B underwent transthoracic esophagectomy with mediastinal and abdominal lymphadenectomy only; group A also underwent bilateral neck lymph node dissection. The rates of operative mortality and operative complications did not differ significantly between the two groups. The 5-year survival rate was 38.7% overall (48.7% in group A and 33.7% in group B). Group A had a significantly better survival curve than group B. Twenty patients (26.0%) in group A had metastasis in the dissected neck lymph nodes. The 4-year survival rate of these patients was 47.9%. The significantly better survival of group A and the satisfactory prognosis in the patients with positive cervical lymph nodes demonstrates the effectiveness of neck lymph node dissection in radical operation for thoracic esophageal carcinoma. 
Helicobacter pylori infection in intestinal- and diffuse-type gastric adenocarcinomas [published erratum appears in J Natl Cancer Inst 1991 Jun 19;83(12):881] Gastric cancer can be divided into two histologic types: intestinal and diffuse. To determine whether Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium linked with gastritis, was associated with either cancer type, we reviewed histologic sections from stomachs of patients who had undergone gastrectomy for gastric cancer. Of 37 of the sections with evidence of intestinal-type cancer, 33 (89.2%) contained H pylori in noncancerous tissue compared with 7 (31.8%) of 22 of the sections with evidence of diffuse-type cancer (odds ratio = 17.7; P less than .001). This association remained strong when controlled for age, sex, site, and number of sections reviewed. The prevalence of H pylori in intestinal-type gastric cancer far exceeded the prevalence of H pylori in diffuse disease and that described in the normal US population. This finding suggests that H pylori may be a cofactor in development of intestinal-type gastric cancer. 
Coronary angioplasty in single-vessel complex lesions: short- and long-term outcome and factors predicting acute coronary occlusion. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of complex coronary lesions (plaque ulceration and/or thrombus) has an increased risk of procedural complications. To assess the influence of these angiographic features on immediate and long-term results of PTCA, we prospectively compared the success rate, incidence of procedural complications, and restenosis rate in two groups of patients selected on the basis of the presence (study group = 30 patients) or absence (control group = 200 patients) of complex morphology at the time of angioplasty. The two groups were similar with regard to extent of coronary artery disease and site of coronary stenosis. Patients in the study group had a higher incidence of periprocedural acute coronary occlusion (47% vs 6%; p less than 0.01), which in 78% of the cases was successfully treated with repeat angioplasty and intracoronary thrombolysis. Univariate correlates of this complication were Canadian Cardiovascular Society class IV (57% vs 19%; p less than 0.05) and recent (less than 30 days) onset of worsening of symptoms (71% vs 31%; p less than 0.05). The incidence of acute myocardial infarction was slightly higher in the study group (6.7% vs 2%; p = NS), and the success rate with redilatation was the same (90%). Clinical and angiographic follow-up data were obtained from all patients in whom the procedure was successful; the restenosis rate was 55% in the study group compared with 36% in the control group (p less than 0.05). 
Characterization of refractory period extension by transcardiac shock. BACKGROUND. To better understand the refractory period extension (RPE) produced by transcardiac shocks and its possible role in defibrillation, we measured RPE under various experimental conditions. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using ventricular pacing in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs, we characterized RPE in relation to the anatomic site of pacing, the local voltage gradient (LVG) produced by the shocks at the pacing site, and the pacing rate and pacing current used to make the measurements. We also determined if RPE persisted into the next refractory period after the shock and measured RPE at the end of 30-second episodes of acute ischemia to the pacing site, which were caused by occluding the left anterior descending artery. Each anatomic site tested showed RPE, which increased sharply with increasing LVG at lower levels but less sharply at higher LVG. The RPE versus LVG was approximated with an exponential curve that had an exponential constant of about 5-6 V/cm. At faster pacing rates, RPE occurred earlier in the refractory period but was unchanged when expressed as a percent increase of refractory period. RPE did not vary with the pacing current and was present only in the refractory period during which the shock was delivered. The RPE was not significantly altered by acute ischemia. These results show that transcardiac shocks selectively extend the refractory period of tissue proportional to the LVG and the timing of the shock in the refractory period. They are consistent with the concept that RPE prevents depolarization from tissue directly excited by a shock from propagating to tissue that was refractory to that same shock. CONCLUSIONS. The insensitivity of RPE to short ischemic episodes and the presence of RPE at increased activation rates suggest that RPE might exist under conditions of fibrillation and be a major determinant of the success or failure of defibrillation. 
Myocardial calcifications in neonates and infants: a unique tissue reaction. The deposit of calcium salts into myocardial cells represents the process of dystrophic calcification. Once it causes alterations in cellular calcium hemostasis, it can initiate deleterious events leading to ischemic myocardial injury and cell death. Myocardial calcifications in infants are markedly different from those in adults; calcifications are significantly more frequent in cases of myocardial necrosis in the young, and can be demonstrated microscopically without removal of necrotic fibers and scar formation, which are the adult's usual stages of response to myocardial necrosis. Important functional and clinical implications in myocardial calcification, other than serving as a marker for necrosis, relate to accelerated myocardial calcification after cardiac surgery in infants. 
Pubovaginal fascial sling for the treatment of complicated stress urinary incontinence. We reviewed retrospectively 67 consecutive women with complicated stress incontinence who underwent a pubovaginal fascial sling procedure by a single surgeon. A detailed micturition questionnaire was completed at the last followup, which ranged from 1 to 8 years, with a mean of 3.5 years. Postoperatively, 82% of the women claimed that they were never incontinent and never wore pads, while 9% were incontinent less often than once per 2 weeks and 9% 9% continued to have troublesome incontinence on a daily basis. Only 2 of these women had persistent stress incontinence; the remainder (5) had urge incontinence. In 6 patients with a neurogenic bladder postoperative urinary retention was expected and they were treated with intermittent self-catheterization. Two patients had urethral obstruction by the sling and required prolonged (probably permanent) intermittent self-catheterization. 
Cholestasis without cirrhosis alters regulatory liver gene expression and inhibits hepatic regeneration. Partial hepatectomy (PH) initiates cellular signals for regeneration. Sequential expression of nuclear and cytosolic protooncogenes accompanies the restoration of normal liver function and architecture. Although cirrhosis is known to inhibit liver regeneration, the effects of noncirrhotic cholestasis on hepatocellular proliferation, differentiation, and regulatory gene expression are unknown. To examine this, 25 male Fisher rats underwent common bile duct ligation and division. A 47% +/- 5% PH was performed 10 days after common bile duct ligation and division when histologic analysis revealed cholestasis without cirrhosis. Despite early elevations of total hepatic DNA and RNA values, cholestatic livers demonstrated a significant threefold suppression of expected hepatocyte mitotic indexes 48 and 72 hours after PH, compared with livers after PH alone. Weight restoration in cholestatic livers was 11% +/- 5.2% compared with 40% +/- 4.3% in control livers (+/- SEM; p less than 0.001) 5 days after PH. Analysis of regenerating liver messenger RNA with complementary DNA probes revealed an abnormal, sustained elevation of K-ras expression in cholestatic livers through all time points. Cholestasis blunted but did not obliterate normal sequential elevations in H-ras found in control livers. The expression of c-myc was inhibited threefold with cholestasis 72 hours after PH. These results are the first indication that cholestasis alone inhibits hepatocyte proliferation and the expression of c-myc that normally precedes the first wave of mitosis. This implies that cholestasis without cirrhosis may alter programmed liver gene expression, inhibiting normal hepatic regeneration. 
Metastatic melanoma to the heart presenting with ventricular tachycardia. Intraventricular tumors in adults are uncommon, and the association of these with ventricular tachycardia is even more rare. We report a case of an intracardiac metastatic melanoma in a woman who presented with syncope due to ventricular tachycardia. 
Cardiac biopsy in patients with "primary" atrial fibrillation. Histologic evidence of occult myocardial diseases. Fourteen patients (ten men and four women; mean age, 37 years) with lone atrial fibrillation (AF) (1 to 18 months' duration) were evaluated by thyroid function tests, two-dimensional echocardiography, hemodynamics, coronary angiography, and left ventricular endomyocardial biopsy, because of unresponsiveness to the usual antiarrhythmic therapy. The results of the T3, T4, TSH, and TRH tests were normal in all patients; cardiac valves and ventricular and atrial sizes (left atrium less than 40 mm) were within the normal limits; also normal were LVEDP (less than or equal to 10 mm Hg) and EF (greater than 0.50). Histologic findings were abnormal in all cases, with three patients showing cardiomyopathic changes, three other patients showing active myocarditis (lymphocytic in two and eosinophilic in one), and eight patients with nonspecific necrosis or fibrosis or both. Steroids (prednisone; 50 mg/m2 of body surface area daily) used in addition to antiarrhythmic therapy in patients with eosinophilic and lymphocytic active myocarditis were able to cause reversion to sinus rhythm, while the other patients continued to have AF. This study documents that occult myocardial diseases (myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, and nonspecific necrosis or fibrosis) can underlie "primary" AF. The addition of steroids to antiarrhythmic therapy in patients with refractory AF and histologic evidence of active myocarditis seems to be useful in controlling the arrhythmia. 
Results of multivessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in persons aged 65 years and older. Between 1981 and 1990, 1,373 patients, aged greater than or equal to 65 years (mean 71.2 +/- 4.9), underwent 1,640 multivessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures. Of these, 224 patients (13.6%) had a left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 40%, 412 (25.1%) had prior coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and 48 (2.9%) had left main artery dilatation. Of the 1,640 PTCA procedures, 697 were in patients with 2-vessel disease and 943 were in patients with 3-vessel disease. A mean 3.5 lesions were dilated per patient, with an overall angiographic success rate of 96%. Complete revascularization was achieved in 857 (52%). A total of 52 patients (3.2%) had a major in-hospital complication: 27 patients (1.6%) died, 24 (1.4%) had a Q-wave myocardial infarction, and 14 (0.8%) underwent emergent CABG. Stepwise logistic regression analysis identified ejection fraction less than or equal to 40% (p less than or equal to 0.001), 3-vessel disease (p less than or equal to 0.01), female gender (p less than or equal to 0.02), and PTCA between 1981 and 1985 (p less than or equal to 0.05) as independent predictors of mortality. Of the 1,373 patients, 1,023 have been followed for greater than or equal to 1 year (mean follow-up 32.5 +/- 21.3 months). There were 156 (15.2%) late deaths, 81 (7.9%) recurrent myocardial infarctions, and 162 (15.8%) coronary artery bypass operations. Actuarial survival, computed from the time of hospital discharge, was 92% at 1 year, 86% at 3 years and 78% at 5 years. Repeat PTCA was required in 371 patients (36.3%). 
Multiple swallow test for the quantitative and qualitative evaluation of esophageal motility disorders Esophageal motility was evaluated from the analysis of six consecutive swallows. A sum image was generated comprising the representative information of an entire study. Calculation of emptying rates and characterization of the bolus behavior was performed from the sum image and the single swallow data. In 86 patients investigated, liquid and solid-phase studies showed a remarkable variation of single swallow data in normals (relative variation coefficient for liquid: 10%, solid: 14%), which were even higher (p less than 0.001) in patients with disorders (liquid: 31%, solid: 25%). As sum images compensate for this intra-individual variation, false-positive (liquid: 16%, solid: 25%) or negative single swallow findings (liquid: 36%, solid: 27%) are reduced. Qualitative analysis of condensed sum images provided characteristic image patterns representing different pathophysiologic aspects. Since the method introduced better discriminates between normal and pathologic function, it may enhance diagnostic accuracy. 
Selective versus routine predischarge coronary arteriography after therapy with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator, heparin and aspirin for acute myocardial infarction. TIMI II Investigators. To ascertain whether predischarge arteriography is beneficial in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), heparin and aspirin, the outcome of 197 patients in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) IIA study assigned to conservative management and routine predischarge coronary arteriography (routine catheterization group) was compared with the outcome of 1,461 patients from the TIMI IIB study assigned to conservative management without routine coronary arteriography unless ischemia recurred spontaneously or on predischarge exercise testing (selective catheterization group). The two groups were similar with regard to important baseline variables. During the initial hospital stay, coronary arteriography was performed in 93.9% of the routine catheterization group and 34.7% of the selective catheterization group (p less than 0.001), but the frequency of coronary revascularization (angioplasty or coronary artery bypass surgery) was similar in the two groups (24.4% versus 20.7%, p = NS). Coronary arteriograms showed a predominance of zero or one vessel disease (stenosis greater than or equal to 60%) in both groups (routine catheterization group 73.1%, selective catheterization group 61.3%). During the 1st year after infarction, rehospitalization for cardiac reasons and the interim performance of coronary arteriography were more common in the selective catheterization group (37.9% versus 27.6%, p = 0.007 and 28.6% versus 11.6%, p less than 0.001, respectively); however, the interim rates of death, nonfatal reinfarction and performance of coronary revascularization procedures were similar. At the end of 1 year, coronary arteriography had been performed one or more times in 98.9% of the routine catheterization group and 59.4% of the selective catheterization group (p less than 0.001), whereas death and nonfatal reinfarction had occurred in 10.2% versus 7.0% (p = 0.10) and 8.6% versus 9.0% (p = 0.87), respectively. Because the selective coronary arteriography policy exposes about 40% fewer patients to the small but finite risks and inconvenience of the procedure without compromising the 1 year survival or reinfarction rates, it seems to be an appropriate management strategy. 
Results of fundoplication in a UK paediatric centre. Of 55 children (age 3 months to 16 years) who had fundoplication, major complications occurred in nine (16 per cent): paraoesophageal hernia (five cases), prolonged ileus (two cases), recurrent gastro-oesophageal reflux (one case), and accidental perforation (one case). The single most important factor resulting in complications was the omission of crural repair; of seven patients without crural repair, five developed paraoesophageal hernia/recurrence. Four patients required repeat fundoplication for severe recurrent symptoms and one of these developed the unusual complication of pericardiogastric fistula. Thirteen patients had strictures before operation from reflux oesophagitis, six (46 per cent) resolved after fundoplication alone, six responded to dilatation (mean five sessions), and one required colon interposition. Our preliminary experience with balloon dilatation was encouraging: three of three patients responded after one dilatation only. These results confirmed the efficacy of surgery in controlling reflux: 100 per cent in the short-term and 89 per cent on a 1-6 year follow-up. Major complications might well be reduced by routine crural repair. 
Magnesium prophylaxis of menstrual migraine: effects on intracellular magnesium. The effects of oral Magnesium (Mg) pyrrolidone carboxylic acid were evaluated in 20 patients affected by menstrual migraine, in a double-blind, placebo controlled study. After a two cycles run-in period, the treatment (360 mg/day of Mg or placebo) started on the 15th day of the cycle and continued till the next menses, for two months. Oral Mg was then supplemented in an open design for the next two months. At the 2nd month, the Pain Total Index was decreased by both Placebo and Mg, with patients receiving active drug showing the lowest values (P less than 0.03). The number of days with headache was reduced only in the patients on active drug. Mg treatment also improved premenstrual complaints, as demonstrated by the significant reduction of Menstrual Distress Questionnaire (MDQ) scores. The reduction of PTI and MDQ scores was observed also at the 4th month of treatment, when Mg was supplemented in all the patients. Intracellular Mg++ levels in patients with menstrual migraine were reduced compared to controls. During oral Mg treatment, the Mg++ content of Lymphocytes (LC) and Polymorphonucleated cells (PMN) significantly increased, while no changes in plasma or Red Blood Cells were found. An inverse correlation between PTI and Mg++ content in PMN was demonstrated. These data point to magnesium supplementation as a further means for menstrual migraine prophylaxis, and support the possibility that a lower migraine threshold could be related to magnesium deficiency. 
Malignant transformation of an osteoblastoma of the skull: an exceptional occurrence. Case report. What is apparently the first reported case of spontaneous malignant transformation of a benign osteoblastoma of the skull is described. The initial lesion was completely removed surgically and showed the histological features typical of a benign osteoblastoma. No radiotherapy was performed. Eleven years later the patient developed an osteosarcoma of the skull. Review of the literature showed that malignant transformation of benign osteoblastomas is extremely rare and could take place spontaneously. However, the risk of this occurring seems higher after inadequate initial treatment (curettage or partial excision). Follow-up monitoring of patients with osteoblastoma of the cranial vault is suggested. 
Effects of treatment with nasal continuous positive airway pressure on atrial natriuretic peptide and arginine vasopressin release during sleep in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea. 1. Patients with obstructive sleep apnoea have increased diuresis during sleep, which decreases with nasal continuous positive airway pressure treatment. These changes have been attributed to an increased release of atrial natriuretic peptide in obstructive sleep apnoea, and its decrease with continuous positive airway pressure treatment. 2. In order to clarify the change in plasma atrial natriuretic peptide level and to investigate the underlying mechanisms, blood samples were taken at 10 min intervals from nine patients with obstructive sleep apnoea during two nights when the patients were either untreated or treated with continuous positive airway pressure. Polysomnographic monitoring, including transcutaneous oximetry, and measurement of oesophageal pressure were performed simultaneously. Plasma arginine vasopressin was also measured. 3. The plasma level of arginine vasopressin did not change. The level of atrial natriuretic peptide was high and exhibited secretion bursts in six out of the nine patients; it drastically decreased with continuous positive airway pressure treatment. 4. Across the patients, the mean plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide was correlated with the degree of hypoxaemia and the degree of oesophageal pressure swings during the sleep apnoeas. 5. Within the patients, cross-correlation studies suggested that the atrial natriuretic peptide secretory bursts were related either to the oesophageal pressure swings or to the apnoea-related hypoxaemia. 6. We conclude that release of atrial natriuretic peptide decreases with continuous positive airway pressure treatment in those patients with obstructive sleep apnoea who have increased release of atrial natriuretic peptide before treatment. 
Combined therapy with fluconazole and flucytosine in murine cryptococcal meningitis. To assess the possible beneficial effects of combined therapy (fluconazole and flucytosine) in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the immunocompromised host, we compared therapy with fluconazole and flucytosine, individually and combined, in the experimental murine model. BALB/c athymic (nu/nu) mice were infected intracerebrally with 150 to 300 CFU of Cryptococcus neoformans. In mortality studies, treatment was initiated 24 h postinfection and continued for 10 to 14 days with either fluconazole (1 to 15 mg/kg of body weight per day), flucytosine (60 to 120 mg/kg/8 h), both drugs, or 0.3% Noble agar (control). Combined therapy delayed mortality significantly when compared with controls and single-drug regimens. This was observed over a broad range of doses. Quantitative determinations of CFU in brain tissue demonstrated a significantly lower burden of C. neoformans in mice receiving combined therapy. The results indicate that combined therapy with fluconazole and flucytosine is superior to single-drug therapy. 
Effect of aldose reductase inhibition on resistance to ischemic conduction block in diabetic subjects. OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of aldose reductase inhibition with ponalrestat on resistance to ischemic conduction block (RICB) in diabetic subjects. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Twenty-one healthy diabetic subjects without neuropathy were studied. Subjects were randomized to take either a double-blind trial of 600 mg ponalrestat or placebo once daily for 6 wk. The median nerve action potential (MNAP) and conduction velocity (NCV), before and after 20 min of forearm ischemia, were measured at the start and finish of the study. Results: RICB (MNAP remaining after ischemia) decreased from 39.5 to 29.4% in the ponalrestat-treated group (P less than 0.05) and increased from 48.1 +/- 10.2 to 49.5 +/- 6.5% in the placebo-treated group. MNAP and NCV were unchanged in both groups. CONCLUSIONS: Aldose reductase inhibition with ponalrestat partly reverses RICB in diabetes, perhaps by improving nerve hypoxia or reducing nerve energy substrates. 
Intracisternal recombinant tissue plasminogen activator after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Fifteen patients undergoing surgery within 48 hours of aneurysm rupture were administered recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) directly into the basal subarachnoid cisterns after minimal surgical clot removal and aneurysm clipping. Preoperatively, 13 patients had diffuse or localized thick subarachnoid blood clots on computerized tomography (CT), and two had diffuse thin clots. The rt-PA was given as a single intraoperative injection of 7.5 mg (one patient), 10 mg (nine patients), or 15 mg (five patients). Postoperative cisternal drainage was employed in three patients. All patients except one demonstrated partial to complete cisternal clot clearance on CT scans within 24 hours after surgery. The patient who showed no clot reduction was the only patient in this series to develop symptomatic vasospasm and was the only fatality, dying 8 days after rupture. No vasospasm was seen on follow-up cerebral angiography in six of the 14 responding patients, and mild-to-moderate arterial narrowing was seen in at least one major cerebral artery in the remaining eight patients. Severe angiographic vasospasm was not seen, although the patient who died did not undergo repeat angiography. There was one major complication early in the series which seemed clearly related to treatment, and that was a large extradural hematoma occurring within several hours of craniotomy. Intrathecal fibrinolytic treatment appears effective in clearing subarachnoid clot and reducing vasospasm, and may be associated with acceptable risks if given to patients with large-volume subarachnoid hemorrhages at high risk for severe vasospasm. 
Exercise hemodynamics and myocardial metabolism during long-term beta-adrenergic blockade in severe heart failure Hemodynamics and myocardial metabolism at rest and during exercise were investigated in 21 patients with heart failure. The patients were evaluated before and after long-term treatment (14 +/- 7 months) with the beta-adrenergic blocking agent metoprolol. Clinical improvement with increased functional capacity occurred during treatment. Maximal work load increased by 25% (104 to 130 W; p less than 0.001). Hemodynamic data showed an increased cardiac index (3.8 to 4.6 liters/min per m2; p less than 0.02) during exercise. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased at rest (20 to 13 mm Hg; p less than 0.01) and during exercise (32 to 28 mm Hg; p = NS). Stroke volume index (30 to 39 g.m/m2; p less than 0.006) and stroke work index (28 to 46 g.m/m2; p less than 0.006) increased during exercise and long-term metoprolol treatment. The arterial norepinephrine concentration decreased at rest (3.72 to 2.19 nmol/liter; p less than 0.02) but not during exercise (13.2 to 11.1 nmol/liter; p = NS). The arterial-coronary sinus norepinephrine difference suggested a decrease in myocardial spillover during metoprolol treatment (-0.28 to -0.13 nmol/liter; p = NS at rest and -1.13 to -0.27 nmol/liter; p less than 0.05 during exercise). Coronary sinus blood flow was unchanged during treatment. Four patients produced myocardial lactate before the study, but none produced lactate after beta-blockade (p less than 0.05). There was no obvious improvement in a subgroup of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. In summary, there were signs of increased myocardial work load without higher metabolic costs after treatment with metoprolol. 
Chemotherapy compared with bone marrow transplantation for adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first remission. OBJECTIVE: To compare efficacy of intensive postremission chemotherapy with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first remission. DESIGN: Retrospective comparison of two cohorts of patients. SETTING: Chemotherapy recipients were treated in 44 hospitals in West Germany in two cooperative group trials; transplants were done in 98 hospitals worldwide. PATIENTS: Patients (484) receiving intensive postremission chemotherapy and 251 recipients of HLA-identical sibling bone marrow transplants for ALL in first remission. Patients ranged from 15 to 45 years of age and were treated between 1980 and 1987. MAIN RESULTS: Similar prognostic factors predicted treatment failure (non-T-cell phenotype, high leukocyte count at diagnosis, and 8 or more weeks to achieve first remission) of both therapies. After statistical adjustments were made for differences in disease characteristics and time-to-treatment, survival was similar in the chemotherapy and transplant cohorts: Five-year leukemia-free survival probability was 38% (95% CI, 33% to 43%) with chemotherapy and 44% (CI, 37% to 52%) with transplant. No specific prognostic group had a significantly better outcome with one treatment compared with the other (6% for the difference; CI, -3% to 15%). Causes of treatment failure differed: With chemotherapy, 268 (96%) failures were from relapse and 11 (4%) were treatment-related; with transplants, 43 (32%) failures were from relapse and 92 (68%) were treatment-related. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that bone marrow transplants currently offer no special advantage over chemotherapy for adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first remission. 
Relation between malpractice claims and adverse events due to negligence. Results of the Harvard Medical Practice Study III. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. By matching the medical records of a random sample of 31,429 patients hospitalized in New York State in 1984 with statewide data on medical-malpractice claims, we identified patients who had filed claims against physicians and hospitals. These results were then compared with our findings, based on a review of the same medical records, regarding the incidence of injuries to patients caused by medical management (adverse events). RESULTS. We identified 47 malpractice claims among 30,195 patients' records located on our initial visits to the hospitals, and 4 claims among 580 additional records located during follow-up visits. The overall rate of claims per discharge (weighted) was 0.13 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 0.076 to 0.18 percent). Of the 280 patients who had adverse events caused by medical negligence as defined by the study protocol, 8 filed malpractice claims (weighted rate, 1.53 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 0 to 3.2 percent). By contrast, our estimate of the statewide ratio of adverse events caused by negligence (27,179) to malpractice claims (3570) is 7.6 to 1. This relative frequency overstates the chances that a negligent adverse event will produce a claim, however, because most of the events for which claims were made in the sample did not meet our definition of adverse events due to negligence. CONCLUSIONS. Medical-malpractice litigation infrequently compensates patients injured by medical negligence and rarely identifies, and holds providers accountable for, substandard care. 
Intermittent pneumatic compression therapy in posttraumatic lower limb edema: computed tomography and clinical measurements. The purpose of our study was to assess the amount of posttraumatic lower limb edema and its distribution between subcutaneous and subfascial compartments before and after intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) therapy in patients with fractures of the lower leg immobilized with a cast for six to 12 weeks. Computed tomography (CT) was used as an objective method of measuring the compartmental distribution of edema. Sixteen patients with a mean age of 37 years (range 19 to 64 years) were investigated by clinical measurement of the leg circumference and by CT at the ankle joint and at three equidistant (10cm) levels above it. The unaffected leg served as a control for the evaluation of the amount of edema and density of the tissues. Edema was found primarily in subcutaneous tissue. The IPC treatment decreased relative edema from 23% to 15.9% (p less than 0.01) as measured by CT, and from 23.5% to 13.2% as measured clinically. The density of muscle tissue increased 9% (p less than 0.01) and that of subcutaneous tissue decreased 5.6% (p less than 0.05). The IPC treatment influenced both the amount of edema and the density of tissue compartments. 
High-dose chemotherapy with reinfusion of purged autologous bone marrow following dose-intense induction as initial therapy for metastatic breast cancer. We assessed the toxicity and efficacy of high-dose chemotherapy consolidation with reinfusion of purged autologous bone marrow in women with metastatic breast cancer responding to a dose-intense outpatient regimen. Thirty women with hormone-unresponsive metastatic breast cancer, previously untreated with adjuvant doxorubicin or with any chemotherapy for metastatic disease, were treated with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, doxorubicin, fluorouracil, vincristine, and leucovorin for 16 weeks. Twenty-four patients responded to therapy; 8 showed a complete response, and 16 showed a partial response. These patients proceeded to the next phase of the protocol, ie, marrow harvest and treatment with 6000 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide and 800 mg/m2 thiotepa given over 4 days. Harvested marrow was purged with 100 micrograms/mL 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide, and all patients engrafted satisfactorily. The predominant side effects were myelosuppressive and gastrointestinal, and there were no deaths from toxic effects. Three of the 16 patients who showed a partial response after the outpatient phase of treatment achieved a complete response after high-dose therapy. The partial response seen in two more patients converted to a complete response at all sites except bone. The median time to disease progression for all patients in this study was 13 months, and the median survival was 22 months. Four of the original 30 patients remained without disease progression a median of 27 months from entry into the study. This study indicates that this dose-intense regimen can be safely administered, even with the use of purged marrow, with an acceptable toxicity profile. This approach results in a high response rate in women with metastatic breast cancer and could form the basis for a regimen to be tested in the high-risk adjuvant setting. 
Warm heart surgery and results of operation for recent myocardial infarction. Revascularization procedures after recent myocardial infarction are associated with higher mortality and morbidity compared with elective coronary artery bypass grafting. Traditional methods of myocardial protection impose a further ischemic insult on already compromised myocardium. Continuous cold blood cardioplegia may eliminate ischemia but may still leave the heart anaerobic. Theoretically, warm aerobic arrest addresses both of these issues and may become an attractive alternative to standard hypothermic ischemic arrest in this setting. In 115 nonrandomized patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting within 6 hours to 7 days of an acute myocardial infarction, myocardial protection was provided with continuous cold (4 degrees C) or continuous warm (37 degrees C) blood cardioplegia. Fifty-one patients (after 1988) protected with warm blood cardioplegia were compared with a historical cohort of 64 patients (before 1988) protected with cold blood cardioplegia. Results indicate that the warm cardioplegia group had no mortality versus 10.9% for the cold group (p less than 0.05), a myocardial infarction rate of 2.0% in the warm versus 9.3% in the cold group, and use of intraaortic balloon pump of 0% versus 12.5%, respectively (p less than 0.05). It is concluded that continuous warm aerobic arrest may minimize ischemia and anaerobic metabolism during the operative procedure, and may be of benefit to patients who have a limited tolerance to ischemic insult. 
Dysrhythmias and blood pressure changes associated with thrombolysis. Recent technologic advances facilitate salvage of viable myocardium before the process of myocardial infarction is complete. The aim of thrombolytic agents is to restore antegrade flow of blood in occluded coronary arteries. The process of reperfusion may be dysrhythmogenic because of the heterogeneous return of electrical activity in myocardial cells. This study examined the incidence and type of dysrhythmia occurrence and the associated changes in mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) during infusion of tissue-type plasminogen activator (TPA). A retrospective chart review of 41 subjects showed that 80% of subjects experienced dysrhythmias during TPA therapy. The most common dysrhythmia was sinus bradycardia, followed by idioventricular/accelerated idioventricular rhythm, ventricular premature beats, and ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation. There was a significant difference between MAP changes when there were no dysrhythmias and MAP changes when dysrhythmias occurred (p less than 0.05). The largest change in MAP (-22.71 mm Hg) was observed when dysrhythmias occurred in those subjects with blockage of the left anterior descending artery, although there was no statistically significant difference in changes in MAP among the groups of different sites of blockage (p greater than 0.05). 
Effect of the degree of effort on exercise echocardiography for the detection of restenosis after coronary artery angioplasty. To determine whether the accuracy of exercise echocardiography is affected by the degree of effort during exercise, we examined 101 patients who had 6 months earlier undergone successful coronary artery angioplasty, with resting and immediate postexercise echocardiography and same-day coronary angiography. A positive exercise echocardiographic response was defined as the development of a new or worsening wall motion abnormality postexercise, compared with resting wall motion. Significant coronary disease (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) was present in 48 patients, 38 of whom had single-vessel disease and 10 of whom had two-vessel disease. Exercise echocardiography correctly identified 32 patients with significant disease (sensitivity 67%) and 44 patients without significant disease (specificity 83%). The effect of the degree of exercise effort on the sensitivity and specificity of the test was evaluated by three criteria; (1) the percentage of maximum predicted heart rate (MHR), (2) the duration of exercise (DUR), and (3) the double product (DP). To determine the influence of the degree of effort upon sensitivity and specificity, the effort criteria were compared between patients with true positive (TP) tests to those with false negative tests (FN), and in patients with true negative (TN) tests compared with those with false positive (FP) tests. No significant differences were detected in MHR, DUR, or DP between TP versus FN patients or between TN versus FP patients. These results indicate that for symptom-limited exercise echocardiography in postangioplasty patients, neither sensitivity nor specificity is significantly affected by the degree of effort during exercise. 
Normal pressure hydrocephalus in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus. We describe a patient who had concomitant systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and a normal pressure hydrocephalus. She improved only after appropriate therapy for each. Although 6 patients with arthritis and normal pressure hydrocephalus have been described, this is the first report of it occurring in a patient with SLE. It has been emphasized that normal pressure hydrocephalus can easily be overlooked in elderly patients with arthritic conditions. Since neuropsychiatric symptoms are likelier to occur in patients with SLE than in other rheumatologic conditions, the diagnosis of normal pressure hydrocephalus may be delayed or overlooked. Because normal pressure hydrocephalus is a potentially reversible cause of neurologic dysfunction, it should be considered in appropriate populations. 
"Early" initiation of levodopa treatment does not promote the development of motor response fluctuations, dyskinesias, or dementia in Parkinson's disease. We reviewed the histories of patients seen in a large Parkinson's disease clinic from 1983 to 1989 to determine if there is a relationship between the timing of initiation of levodopa therapy and the development of motor response fluctuations, dyskinesias, and dementia. There were no factors predisposing to the development of response fluctuations or dementia. Younger age at disease onset predisposed to the development of dyskinesia. Dyskinesias occurred in a greater proportion of patients in whom the initiation of levodopa therapy was delayed by more than 2 years from disease diagnosis than among those in whom treatment was started earlier. We thus failed to identify any adverse consequences of early levodopa treatment in our patient population. 
A multicenter comparison of the safety and efficacy of isradipine and enalapril in the treatment of hypertension. This multicenter trial compared the efficacy and safety of isradipine and enalapril in 160 patients with essential hypertension. Patients received isradipine or enalapril for 10 weeks after a placebo wash-out period of three to five weeks. Dosage was titrated for six weeks on the basis of blood pressure (BP) response and was then maintained for the remainder of the study. Isradipine reduced systolic and diastolic BP by 12 and 9 mm Hg, respectively, and enalapril by 10 and 7 mm Hg, respectively (between-treatment difference P less than .05 for diastolic BP). Overall, isradipine resulted in a higher responder rate, particularly among patients who had higher entry BPs. Fifteen enalapril-treated patients and four isradipine-treated patients discontinued treatment (four taking enalapril and none taking isradipine withdrew because of lack of efficacy). The most frequently reported adverse reactions were headache, dizziness, and edema in the isradipine group, and cough, headache, and chest pain in the enalapril group. Both drugs produced significant reductions in BP, but, in this study isradipine was more effective. The drugs were similarly well tolerated. 
Linkage of a cardiac arrhythmia, the long QT syndrome, and the Harvey ras-1 gene Genetic factors contribute to heart disease. In this study, linkage analyses have been performed in a family that is predisposed to sudden death from cardiac arrhythmias, the long QT syndrome (LQT). A DNA marker at the Harvey ras-1 locus (H-ras-1) was linked to LQT with a logarithm of the likelihood ratio for linkage (lod score) of 16.44 at theta = 0, which confirms the genetic basis of this trait and localizes this gene to the short arm of chromosome 11. As no recombination was observed between LQT and H-ras-1, and there is a physiological rationale for its involvement in this disease, ras becomes a candidate for the disease locus. 
Evidence for hypoxic depression of CO2-ventilation response in carotid body-resected humans. Steady-state CO2-ventilation response curves with hyperoxia (end-tidal PO2 greater than 200 Torr) and mild hypoxia (end-tidal PO2 approximately equal to 60 Torr) were compared in five carotid body-resected (BR) patients and five control patients. The data were analyzed by fitting a linear equation, V = S(PETCO2-B), where V is minute ventilation S is the response curve slope. PETCO2 is end-tidal PCO2, and B is the response curve threshold. S slightly increased from hyperoxia to hypoxia in both BR and control groups. On the other hand, B moderately increased with hypoxia in BR patients, whereas it slightly decreased in controls. These changes were all not significant. However, in accordance with the change in B, the response curve to hypoxia at V of 10 1/min was significantly shifted in opposite directions in the two groups, i.e., rightward and leftward shift in BR and control groups, respectively. Thus the average magnitude of V calculated at PETCO2 of 40 Torr in hypoxia was significantly lower in BR patients than in controls (P less than 0.01). We conclude that this hypoxic depression of the CO2-ventilation response found in BR patients may have resulted, at least in part, from modulation of the brain stem neural mechanisms that were elicited by loss of afferent discharges from the carotid body. 
Spinal cord stimulation in 60 cases of intractable pain. Sixty patients with spinal cord stimulators implanted for intractable pain lasting up to 50 years were followed for up to nine years. Forty seven per cent derived significant benefit, 23% modest benefit, 20% experienced no effect and 6.7% were made worse. Two were made worse after initial benefit. Complications, indications and factors relevant to the mode of action are discussed. 
cis-platinum ototoxicity in children. Cis-platinum is an ototoxic antineoplastic drug. Evaluation of auditory thresholds in 33 children receiving cis-platinum shows that a threshold shift at 6 and 8 kHz is first measurable after a cumulative dose of 201 to 300 mg/m2. A 35- to 40-dB high-frequency threshold shift is evident after a cumulative cis-platinum dose of 301 to 400 mg/m2. Increasing cumulative doses of cis-platinum are associated with a greater degree of hearing loss. Receiver-operator characteristic curves were used to find a criterion value that effectively identified threshold shifts that were due to cis-platinum ototoxicity. A 15-dB or greater shift in the 6- and 8-kHz threshold average identifies a high true-positive (50%) and low false-positive (0%) rate of cis-platinum-induced hearing loss. Using this criterion, cis-platinum ototoxicity affected 77% of children who received cis-platinum (median cumulative dose 360 mg/m2). 
Surveillance for recurrent stenosis after endovascular procedures. A prospective study. Eighty-nine endovascular procedures were performed during a 1-year period. Techniques included balloon angioplasty (n = 50), laser-assisted balloon angioplasty (n = 32), and atherectomy (n = 7). Indications were claudication (65.2%), critical ischemia (30.3%), and failing bypass (4.5%). Preoperative evaluation included a history and physical examination, segmental limb pressures, and color duplex ultrasonography. Postoperative surveillance consisted of a history and physical examination, ankle-arm indexes, and color duplex examinations at 1-week, 1-month, and then 3-month intervals. All levels of aortoiliac and infrainguinal disease were treated. Immediate technical success rate was 89.8%. Recurrence rates by life-table analysis reveal a 9-month patency rate of 45.4%. Early results of this prospective study indicate that endovascular procedures are subject to significant restenosis rates. Restraint is advised concerning general acceptance of endovascular procedures pending critical study. 
Influence of physical exercise on serum digoxin concentration and heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation. Heart rate and serum digoxin concentration in eight patients with atrial fibrillation were studied at rest and during exercise when initial serum digoxin concentrations were zero and at low and high therapeutic values. Eight patients with ischemic heart disease and in sinus rhythm were studied for comparison. Though the serum digoxin concentration decreased significantly during exercise, the absolute reduction in heart rate was the same at rest and during exercise in patients with atrial fibrillation. Compared with the control patients in sinus rhythm, the heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation was not adequately controlled during exercise by any serum digoxin concentration tested despite a reduction in heart rate with increasing digoxin concentration. The effects of digoxin on heart rate regulation in atrial fibrillation are complex and include direct effects on the myocardium as well as indirect effects mediated by modulation of the autonomic nervous system; the present results indicate that the drug is not displaced from the target organs by decreasing serum concentrations during exercise. In atrial fibrillation, because the demands on the filter function of the atrioventricular node are highly unphysiological, the effect of digoxin on heart rate during exercise is not adequate. 
The role of immunoglobulin in bone marrow transplantation. Bone marrow transplantation has proven its value as a therapeutic approach to a variety of human diseases, primarily the hematopoietic malignancies. The major clinical problems preventing successful outcome of marrow transplant have been defined and therapeutic approaches to preventing or treating these complications have led to increased long-term disease survival. Passively administered antibody given as intravenous immunoglobulin has been studied as a therapeutic modality following bone marrow transplantation. Studies have demonstrated the efficacy of immunoglobulin in reducing bacterial infections in the posttransplant period; reducing severe CMV infections in allogeneic marrow transplant recipients who are seronegative for the virus and susceptible to primary infection; reducing mortality from CMV pneumonia in combination with ganciclovir; and reducing acute graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic BMT. In many cases alternate therapeutic strategies offer comparable or greater efficacy (eg, selective CMV-negative blood products for CMV seronegative allogeneic BMT recipients receiving bone marrow from a seronegative donor). However, it is clear that intravenous immunoglobulin has a place in the therapeutic armamentarium of bone marrow transplantation. Future controlled clinical trials are necessary to establish its exact role and to define which preparations and dose schedules provide the greatest therapeutic benefits. 
Spontaneous release of interferon gamma by intestinal lamina propria lymphocytes in Crohn's disease. Kinetics of in vitro response to interferon gamma inducers. The spontaneous induced release of interferon gamma (IFN gamma) by cultured intestinal lamina propria lymphocytes was investigated in patients with Crohn's disease. In contrast to normal lymphocytes, intestinal lymphocytes from these patients spontaneously released IFN gamma and seemed to contain IFN gamma in their cytoplasm. Autologous peripheral lymphocytes did not release IFN gamma. When stimulated with interferon inducers lamina propria lymphocytes from Crohn's disease tissue showed an increase in IFN gamma release 24 hours after induction with no appreciable further increase over the next two days of culture, while in control cells, either peripheral or intestinal, IFN gamma release progressively increased, peaking 72 hours after induction. These findings indicate that in Crohn's disease the intestinal lymphocytes are stimulated in vivo to produce IFN gamma and that the spontaneous IFN gamma production is compartmentalised to the gut lymphocytes. These data support the concept that locally released IFN gamma has a crucial role in cell interactions in the lamina propria and contribute to the locally occurring immune phenomena in Crohn's disease, including the increased epithelial expression of major histocompatibility complex class II antigens. 
EEG and topographic frequency analysis in common and classic migraine. Electroencephalographic (EEG) changes occurring in patients with migraine have received much attention. However, almost equal number of reports indicate the predominance of normal and abnormal findings. We studied the EEG in symptom-free, otherwise healthy, unmedicated 18-28 year-old patients: 22 with common migraine, 20 with classic migraine, and 20 age-matched controls. The routine EEG findings in the three groups revealed mild non-specific slowing in 2 (9%), 3 (15%) and 2 (10%), respectively. Simultaneously, topographic EEG mapping and frequency analysis were performed in 13 consecutive patients with common migraine, 10 patients with classic migraine and 11 age-matched controls. EEG mapping showed minimal regional differences with lower power in the alpha range in patients with eyes closed. The peak alpha power, as well as its reactivity, were lower among patients than controls. This difference reached statistical significance only for patients with classic migraine versus controls in the left occipital region. Patients also had slightly faster peak alpha frequency. No frank right-left asymmetry was observed in the peak alpha power, neither among the controls, nor the patients. All the findings were rather minor. They may suggest some difference in the posterior background activity in the EEG in migraine patients as compared to the controls, but are not useful in differentiating migraine from non-migraine patients. 
Severe limb abnormalities after chorion villus sampling at 56-66 days' gestation Among 289 pregnancies in which chorion villus sampling (CVS) was carried out at 56-66 days' gestation, 5 babies with severe limb abnormalities were subsequently identified. 4 had oromandibular-limb hypogenesis syndromes, and the other had a terminal transverse limb reduction defect. This high incidence raises the possibility that CVS was an aetiological factor for these developmental anomalies. 
Gold-associated lymphadenopathy in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. Histologic and scanning electron microscopic features. The histologic features of adenopathy associated with intramuscular injections of gold sodium thiomalate in a woman with rheumatoid arthritis are presented. We believe that the light microscopic features of the above process are sufficiently distinctive that a diagnosis of gold-associated lymphadenopathy could be rendered. A review of the literature revealed no descriptions of the light microscopic appearance of gold in lymph nodes. In this case, the diagnosis of gold-associated lymphadenopathy was confirmed by scanning electron microscopic studies. 
Factors influencing admission blood pressure levels in patients with acute stroke. In clinical practice, patients with acute stroke often have high blood pressure. The aim of this study was to investigate factors correlated with blood pressure elevation in 843 consecutive stroke patients on hospital admission to a nonintensive stroke unit. Using a multivariate analysis model, we analyzed the influence on admission blood pressure of sex, age, previous hypertension, cardiac failure, diabetes, type of stroke, impaired consciousness, and latency between onset of symptoms and admission. Previous hypertension was the strongest predictor (p less than 0.001) of elevated blood pressure on admission, followed by the presence of intracerebral hemorrhage (p less than 0.001). The latency between onset of symptoms and admission showed no correlation with blood pressure levels at hospitalization. Previously, high blood pressure levels on hospital admission have been shown to decline within a few days in hospital. We therefore hypothesize that mental stress on hospital admission may be a major factor in the blood pressure elevation seen in acute stroke. 
Congestive heart failure secondary to an arteriovenous fistula from cardiac catheterization and angioplasty. Arteriovenous (AV) fistulae are well known to cause high output cardiac failure. AV fistulae from cardiac catheterization are as rare as 0.01% in the transfemoral approach. We describe here what we believe is the first reported case of high output cardiac failure from an AV fistula due to percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The patient had reversal of the congestive heart failure with surgical correction of the fistula. 
Reliability of peak physiological responses during wheelchair ergometry in persons with spinal cord injury. This study examined the test-retest reliability of peak physiological responses during wheelchair ergometry (WE) in individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI). Seven wheelchair dependent subjects, two with paraplegia (T10-11 and T11-12 lesions) and five with quadriplegia (all with C6-7 lesions), were given two incremental exercise tests to volitional fatigue on separate occasions within a one-week period. Each subject wheeled his or her personal wheelchair, which was mounted on a set of frictionless rollers with side-mounted flywheels. Metabolic and cardiorespiratory responses were continuously monitored by means of an automated metabolic measurement cart interfaced with an electrocardiograph. Statistical analysis revealed no significant differences (p greater than .05) between the mean values of the two test trials for six peak values. Reliability coefficients (p less than .01) were: oxygen uptake (0.98), heart rate (0.97), ventilation volume (0.96), respiratory exchange ratio (0.91), oxygen pulse (0.96), and ventilatory equivalent for oxygen (0.88). The investigators concluded that these six physiological responses in subjects with SCI undergoing WE are highly reliable, and that these variables can be used in the objective prescription, monitoring, and evaluation of exercise rehabilitation programs for individuals with SCI. 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura treated with plasma exchange or exchange transfusions. Of 40 patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, 17 were treated with plasma exchange, 15 with exchange transfusions, and 6 with both types of therapy. One patient died before being treated and another patient was seen but not treated. Plasma exchange was performed daily for a mean of seven exchanges per patient. The replacement fluid during plasma exchange was fresh frozen plasma in all cases. The complete response rates for each type of treatment were as follows: 88% for plasma exchange (15 patients), 47% for exchange transfusions (7 patients), and 67% for exchange transfusions and plasma exchange (4 patients). Clinical and laboratory factors were examined for any statistically significant association with therapy response. Treatment with plasma exchange was statistically the initial factor most strongly associated with prognosis. Paresis, paresthesias, seizures, mental status change, and coma showed no association with response to treatment. Some of the laboratory factors that did not show significant association with treatment response were the initial creatinine, hemoglobin, platelet count, lactate dehydrogenase, and total bilirubin. This study supports the hypothesis that plasma exchange has significantly improved the prognosis of patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. These patients should be treated aggressively regardless of the severity of their symptoms. 
Infrared, thermistor, and glass-mercury thermometry for measurement of body temperature in children with cancer. Body temperature is often the sole determinant of whether or not the neutropenic cancer patient is admitted to the hospital for empiric antibiotic therapy. Recently developed infrared tympanic thermometers offer rapid readings, but their accuracy has not been established. We studied two infrared thermometers (FirstTemp and Thermoscan) and a thermistor (IVAC) in children with cancer. Mean infrared measurements did not differ significantly between right and left ear canals, and the mean IVAC temperature did not differ significantly from the left to the right axilla (P greater than 0.05, paired t test). IVAC predictive mode mean temperature was 0.2 degrees C lower than monitor mode mean temperature in the axilla (P less than 0.0001), but 0.1 degree C higher than monitor mode orally (P less than 0.0001). Aiming the infrared instrument at the tympanic membrane using an ear tug resulted in a 0.2 degree C higher mean temperature than casual placement in the ear canal (P less than 0.0001). After compensation for the mean difference in reference oral glass-mercury versus test instrument temperatures, the FirstTemp, Thermoscan, and oral and axillary predictive mode IVAC measurements yielded sensitivities for the detection of fever of 84%, 84%, 82%, and 86%; specificities of 100%, 99%, 100%, and 100%; positive predictive values of 100%, 93%, 100%, and 100%; and negative predictive values of 95%, 98%, 98%, and 98%, respectively. We conclude that each of these instruments detects fever with comparable reliability. Infrared instruments are especially attractive alternatives due to their time efficiency. 
Results of the pelvic-pouch procedure in patients with Crohn's disease. The pelvic-pouch procedure has become a standard operation for selected patients with ulcerative colitis, but is contraindicated in patients with Crohn's disease at our institution. However, the distinction between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's colitis can sometimes be difficult, if not impossible. Between January 1982, and March 1989, 272 patients with ulcerative colitis underwent pelvic-pouch procedures at our institution. Nine (3.5 percent) of these patients eventually were found to have Crohn's disease. The records of these patients were examined to assess their clinical outcome and complication rate. There were five females and four males with a mean age of 28.8 years. In five patients (Group I) the diagnosis of Crohn's disease was made postoperatively on histologic examination of the rectum. The ileostomy was closed in all patients. Two developed complications necessitating excision of the pouch. Three patients are well. In the other four cases (Group II) the mean time to diagnosis was 2.5 years after the pouch procedure. Three patients developed pouch-vaginal fistula, and one multiple anal fissures and stenosis. Two required excision of the pouch whereas two have a functioning pouch but with a persistent pouch-vaginal fistula (n = 1) or anal fissures (n = 1). Overall, four patients have had their pouches removed, and five patients have functioning pouches: three with no complications and two with persistent perianal disease. Thus, we would conclude that the pelvic-pouch procedure should not knowingly be performed in patients with Crohn's disease because of the high associated complication rate. 
c-erbB-2 expression in different histological types of invasive breast carcinoma. Sections of 149 breast carcinomas were examined for the over-expression of c-erbB-2 oncoprotein using the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique and two different specific antibodies. These included the polyclonal antibody 21N and the monoclonal antibody 4D5. The tumours were divided into two main groups. The first included 75 cases of invasive ductal and classic invasive lobular carcinomas. The second group consisted of 74 cases with histological types known to have a good prognosis, including mucinous, alveolar variant of invasive lobular, medullary, tubular, cribriform and papillary carcinomas. Fifteen (20%) tumours of the first group were positive with the two antibodies. Fourteen of these were of the ductal type and one was a mixed invasive ductal and lobular carcinoma. Ten of the pure ductal cases had areas of comedo carcinoma. The intraductal elements in a further tumour were positively stained with 21N antibody only. None of the second group of tumours, which included histological types known to have good prognosis, stained with 4D5, although one mucinous carcinoma was positively stained with 21N. These findings suggest that in invasive breast carcinoma immunostaining for c-erbB-2 is mainly seen in a subgroup of ductal tumours, and that almost all other histological types, especially those associated with good prognosis, lack this expression. 
Risk stratification after myocardial infarction with exercise and Doppler echocardiography. Exercise testing early after myocardial infarction has been shown to be of further risk stratification value among otherwise low-risk patients on the basis of an uncomplicated clinical course. The addition of cardiac imaging modalities to exercise testing has augmented this capacity. Exercise echocardiographic imaging before and immediately after treadmill exercise can be accomplished in 85-95% of patients. New or worsening wall motion abnormalities identify 63-80% of patients who will suffer cardiac events and correctly predict 78-95% of those who will not. In addition, exercise echocardiography can detect multivessel coronary artery disease with a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 90%. These results are superior to those obtained by analyzing global left ventricular function during exercise, exercise aortic Doppler velocity profiles, or exercise electrocardiography. How exercise echocardiography compares with 201Tl perfusion imaging after myocardial infarction awaits a systematic study. Therefore, the choice between exercise echocardiography and perfusion imaging depends on physician preference, availability, cost, and service. 
Incidence of neuropathy in 395 patients with ovarian cancer treated with or without cisplatin. In two consecutive trials, a total of 395 patients with ovarian cancer were treated with a combination of hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapeutic regimens including cisplatin or without this drug. With respect to neurotoxicity, 387 patients were fully eligible. The median follow-up for survival was 45 months. Neurotoxicity in any grade of severity developed in 47% of the patients treated with a cisplatin-containing regimen and in 25% of those treated with the non-cisplatin-containing regimen. The severity of neurotoxicity was much higher, however, in the cisplatin-treated patients. Neurotoxicity-free survival decreased below 50% at cumulative doses of cisplatin between 500 and 600 mg/m2. No additional effect of hexamethylmelamine on the incidence or severity of neurotoxicity could be demonstrated. In patients who survived for more than 5 years, the incidence of cisplatin neuropathy was 61%. Prognostic variables (age, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics [FIGO] stage, performance status, and others) possibly associated with high-risk subgroups could not be identified. The only consistent factor correlated with neurotoxicity was the total dose of cisplatin received. 
Cocaine, fetal loss, and the role of the forensic pathologist. Adverse obstetrical outcomes are often associated with maternal cocaine use. These have included intrauterine growth retardation, abruptio placentae, and an increased incidence of spontaneous abortion and pre-term labor. This report details the case of an 18-week-gestation fetus recovered from a sewage treatment plant. A brain specimen was positive for cocaine. With the present epidemic of cocaine abuse, it is important for the forensic pathologist to seek toxicologic evidence of cocaine in all suspicious fetal and neonatal deaths. 
Bile duct diverticula and webs: nonspecific cholangiographic features of primary sclerosing cholangitis. Biliary tree diverticula and webs are considered by several authors to be specific cholangiographic features of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). Our experience suggested that these findings can be seen in patients without PSC. The purpose of this study was twofold: to establish whether diverticula and webs are indeed specific for PSC and to assess whether PSC can be accurately diagnosed without reference to diverticula or webs. We retrospectively reviewed 861 consecutive ERCP studies and found 32 cases of webs and/or diverticula. Using accepted cholangiographic, clinical, and histologic criteria, we diagnosed PSC in nine patients and excluded it in 21, with two instances of uncertain diagnoses. Webs and diverticula seen in PSC were cholangiographically indistinguishable from those in the group without PSC. All 21 patients without PSC had other biliary abnormalities, and were grouped by the predominant abnormality or finding believed to be associated with diverticulum or web formation: common duct stones or cholangitis (n = 11 patients), postoperative stricture (n = 4), bile duct stent and balloon dilatation (n = 3), malignant stricture (n = 2), and choledochoduodenostomy (n = 1). To assess cholangiographic diagnosis of PSC in these patients, a blinded reviewer studied the radiographs of the 30 patients with diverticula and/or webs who had confirmed diagnoses. By using established radiologic criteria alone (ignoring diverticula and webs), the correct diagnosis was made in 27, yielding a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 91%. We conclude that the presence of diverticula and/or webs on a cholangiogram is a nonspecific finding and may be due to inflammation or trauma to the bile duct wall. Further, PSC can be distinguished from other abnormalities on the basis of findings other than diverticula and webs. 
Crackles in interstitial lung disease. Comparison of sarcoidosis and fibrosing alveolitis. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Determine why crackles on chest auscultation are characteristic of most interstitial lung diseases, but may not be heard in sarcoidosis. DESIGN: All patients with sarcoidosis or cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis seen during a four-week period were studied. In a second study to relate ausculatory findings to anatomy, patients with fibrotic changes on their chest roentgenogram were studied. SETTING: Patients were recruited from outpatient clinics. PATIENTS: In the first part, all patients seen over the course of one month were studied. In the second study, patients with pulmonary fibrosis seen on chest roentgenograms were studied. INTERVENTIONS: For the first study, two independent observers performed auscultation on five sites for crackles and reviewed four roentgenogram quadrants for changes. For the second study, patients underwent VC measurements, auscultation, and high resolution computer tomography scans. MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: For the first study, crackles were noted at greater than 2 sites in all 11 CFA patients, but only one of 17 SARC patients (p less than 0.001). Roentgenogram changes were seen in greater than 2 quadrants in nine of 11 CFA patients and eight of 17 SARC patients (p = ns). In the second study, the VC was similar in the two groups: SARC: 1.96 +/- .90 L (means +/- SD), 58 +/- 20.4 percent predicted; CFA: 1.81 +/- .33 L, 59 +/- 9.2 percent predicted). Only two of 14 SARC patients had crackles in greater than 1 area, while all 14 CFA patients had crackles at greater than 2 sites. The HRCT studies were read by a radiologist unaware of the diagnosis. The presence and degree (0 to 3 scale) of subpleural and peribronchial fibrosis were scored. Twelve SARC patients had peribronchial changes (mean score 1.9 +/- 1.08), while only eight had subpleural fibrosis (mean score .6 +/- .52). There was a significantly different pattern in the CFA patients, where eight had peribronchial fibrosis (mean score = .9 +/- .78, p less than 0.05) and all 14 had subpleural fibrosis (mean score = 1.6 +/- .73, p less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that crackles are more frequent in fibrosing alveolitis than in sarcoidosis; this difference may be due to the distribution of parenchymal fibrosis. 
The novel competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist CGP 37849 preferentially induces phencyclidine-like behavioral effects in kindled rats: attenuation by manipulation of dopamine, alpha-1 and serotonin1A receptors. The novel competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP 37849) was found to produce a phencyclidine (PCP)-like behavioral syndrome (ataxia, locomotion, stereotypies) in amygdala-kindled rats, whereas the amphetamine-like behavioral alterations of the syndrome (locomotion, stereotypies) were only infrequently seen in nonkindled rats. In dose-response experiments in kindled and nonkindled rats, behavioral effects were scored using a ranked intensity scale, and the behaviors and behavioural scores determined after CGP 37849 were compared with those determined after i.p. administration of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (MK-801). In kindled rats, 20 mg/kg of CGP 37849 produced about the same scores for hyperlocomotion and head weaving as 0.1 mg/kg of MK-801. Kindled rats exhibited higher behavioral scores than nonkindled rats, especially in the case of CGP 37849. The behavioral effects produced by CGP 37849 in kindled rats were almost indistinguishable from the PCP-like behavioral effects induced by MK-801, indicating that CGP 37849 indeed produces a PCP-like pattern of behavior in kindled rats. Hyperlocomotion and head weaving induced by CGP 37849 in kindled rats could be attenuated or totally prevented by pretreatment with ipsapirone, a partial agonist/antagonist at postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors of the 5-HT1A subtype. Furthermore, these behavioural effects were attenuated or blocked by the dopamine antagonist haloperidol and the alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin. The data demonstrate that kindling induces a hypersensitivity to PCP-like behavioral effects of competitive and noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists, which could relate to the recent finding of increased function of NMDA receptors following kindling. 
Electrocardiographic diagnosis of left ventricular hypertrophy in the presence of bundle branch block. Autopsy and echocardiographic studies indicate that ECG criteria for LVH tend to maintain their sensitivity in the presence of LBBB, with the exception of left precordial lead criteria alone. With RBBB, ECG criteria for LVH using right precordial S waves and combination criteria of right precordial S waves and left precordial R waves have a marked reduction in sensitivity, whereas left precordial R wave criteria have modestly reduced sensitivity. Limb lead criteria for LVH have increased sensitivity in the presence of RBBB and, to a lesser extent, in the presence of LBBB. Acceptable sensitivity for the diagnosis of LVH in patients with bundle branch block requires a combination of limb and precordial lead voltage criteria and/or other nonvoltage ECG criteria, since the prevalence of LVH in the presence of RBBB or LBBB appears higher than the sensitivity of individual criteria. 
Peritoneal leukocyte response following placement of polyglycolic acid intestinal sling in patients with rectal carcinoma. The intestinal sling procedure has been used successfully without the observance of pelvic infections. This procedure involves the implantation of polyglycolic acid (PGA) mesh to hold the bowel out of the pelvis to prevent radiation enteritis. We previously showed that PGA mesh has no intrinsic bactericidal activity. Since phagocytic leukocytes produce reactive oxygen intermediates during respiratory burst that are associated with oxygen-dependent bactericidal activity, we examined peritoneal cell types and their respiratory burst activity isolated from patients with biopsy-confirmed rectal carcinoma who underwent the intestinal sling procedure (N = 12) compared with patients who did not (N = 13). There was no significant difference in the cell types within the peritoneal cavity over the 7-day postoperative period examined. However, there was a significant increase in the ability of leukocytes isolated from mesh patients to produce hydrogen peroxide in the absence of an exogenous stimulus (P less than 0.05), as measured by flow cytometric quantitation of oxidation of the hydroperoxide-sensitive dye, 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin diacetate (DCFH-DA). Despite the higher endogenous DCFH oxidation by leukocytes from mesh patients, the cells retained the ability to oxidize DCFH following treatment with a membrane-active stimulant for respiratory burst activity, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate. These observations suggest that PGA mesh used for the intestinal sling procedure stimulates the respiratory burst activity of peritoneal leukocytes during the postoperative period in which bacterial proliferation and colonization occur. The stimulation of reactive oxygen intermediates involved in oxygen-dependent bactericidal activity by PGA mesh may be one of the mechanisms underlying the lack of infections observed with the use of PGA mesh in contaminated settings. 
Topographic variations in the peripheral course of the greater occipital nerve. Autopsy study with clinical correlations. The description of the peripheral course of the greater occipital nerve (GON) varies in the literature. An autopsy study was done on 20 cases without known headache problems. These findings showed a marked variation in the relation between the GON and nuchal muscles. The trapezius muscle was penetrated by the GON in 45% of cases, the semispinal muscle of the head was penetrated in 90% of cases, and the inferior oblique muscle of head was penetrated in 7.5% of cases. Macroscopic findings of possible compression were made in 11 cases (27.5%), indicating that nerve compression per se may be of minor importance since it seems to exist in the absence of headache. 
Toward an integrated understanding of fibromyalgia syndrome. I. Medical and pathophysiological aspects. Fibromyalgia syndrome (FS) is a chronic pain disorder characterized by diffuse musculoskeletal soreness, stiffness, non-restorative sleep and psychological disturbance. At present, much about the etiology, pathological mechanisms and course of FS are unknown. Indeed, standardized diagnostic criteria have only been recently agreed upon. The present paper is the first of a two-part series which reviews the extant empirical literature concerning FS, with a view to arriving at an integrated understanding of the syndrome. The present paper describes the clinical presentation of FS and historical conceptualizations of the disorder. Available research on pathophysiological mechanisms in FS is then presented. In this section we have included literature concerning histology of muscle, sleep architecture, neurotransmitter anomalies and neuropeptide involvement in FS symptomatology. 
MRI reveals multiple reversible cerebral lesions in an attack of acute intermittent porphyria. A 20-year-old woman had an attack of acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) with seizures and hallucinations. MRI revealed multiple lesions in both hemispheres. Both the cerebral clinical abnormalities and the MRI lesions resolved following treatment. These findings suggest that a vascular mechanism may underlie the pathogenesis of cerebral dysfunction in AIP. 
Acute effects of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade on plasma atrial natriuretic peptides during exercise in elderly patients with mild hypertension. In a randomized study in 26 elderly patients with mild essential hypertension, acute effects of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade on plasma ANP levels were examined at rest and during ergometric exercise. Plasma ANP level and LVEF were measured before and after administration of prazosin (an alpha 1-adrenergic blocker), atenolol (a cardioselective beta-adrenergic blocker), or carteolol (a nonselective beta-adrenergic blocker). Plasma ANP level was increased by exercise. Carteolol and atenolol increased plasma ANP levels at rest and during exercise, but the effect of atenolol was not statistically significant. Prazosin significantly suppressed the ANP values at rest and during exercise. The LVEF was increased by prazosin and decreased by beta-blockers, especially by carteolol. Multivariate regression analysis showed that LVEF was the most significant predictor of the plasma ANP level at maximal exercise; the resting blood pressure and heart rate were not predictors of this value. The results showed that single administrations of an alpha-blocker and a nonselective beta-blocker had opposite effects on the plasma ANP level both at rest and during exercise in elderly patients with mild essential hypertension. The observed difference in the ANP response seems to be related to changes in left ventricular function rather than changes in blood pressure or heart rate. 
Carrying as colic "therapy": a randomized controlled trial. In healthy infants, crying behavior is reduced significantly by "supplemental" carrying; that is, increased carrying throughout the day in addition to that which occurs during feeding and in response to crying. To determine whether the recommendation to increase carrying would be effective as a therapy for colic, 66 mothers of infants 4 weeks of age or less who came to their pediatricians with complaints of crying problems ("colic") were randomized to receive standard pediatric advice (standard group) or standard advice plus the recommendation to increase supplemental carrying by 50% (supplemental group). Overall, the supplemental group carried their infants 6.1 hours/d throughout the intervention period, an increase of 2.2 hours/d (56%) more than that provided by the standard group. Despite this significant increase in carrying, there was no difference between groups in the duration or frequency of crying, fussing, or cry/fuss at any time throughout the intervention period. When the greatest treatment effect was expected at 6 weeks, the supplemental group infants cried only 3 minutes less per day (95% confidence interval: 37 minutes less to 32 minutes more per day). We conclude that, compared with standard pediatric advice to be "responsive," supplemental carrying does not reduce crying and fussing behavior further in infants who have colic. In marked contrast to healthy infants, this apparent resistance to increased carrying may indicate an important difference in state regulation and control in infants with colic. 
Angiotensin-induced growth related metabolism is activated in cultured smooth muscle cells from spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats. Smooth muscle cells from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) proliferate in culture faster than those isolated from sex- and age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) animals. There was no difference in the kinetics of S6 kinase activation in the two cultures, but later metabolic events associated with proliferation were stimulated earlier in SHR cells than in WKY, eg, activation of ornithine decarboxylase. Both cell types elaborated an extensive extra-cellular matrix in culture composed of a different blend of connective tissue macromolecules. Matrix material from SHR cells was more stimulatory to growth of WKY cultures than their own matrices. Angiotensin stimulated the growth and synthesis of extra-cellular matrix material in SHR more than in WKY derived vascular smooth muscle cell cultures. 
Relationship between coronary blood flow and perfusion pressure during reactive hyperemia: a case report in an awake unanesthetized woman with normal coronary arteries. The linear relationship between coronary blood flow and mean arterial pressure during reactive hyperemia is presented for the first time in an awake unanesthetized woman with normal coronary arteries during systemic hypotension induced by pharmacologic vasodilation. This case demonstrates the critical dependence of coronary flow reserve on simultaneous perfusion pressure. 
Age-dependent increase in deleted mitochondrial DNA in the human heart: possible contributory factor to presbycardia. Cardiac function deteriorates with age, and endogenous damage to mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) is believed to be a major contributory factor to aging. Mitochondria occupy a pivotal position in energy metabolism, and mitochondria have their own DNA, which encodes 13 subunits of the mitochondrial energy transducing system. Other subunits are encoded by nuclear DNA. DNA has been shown to have a high mutation rate, and genetic mutation might primarily be ascribed to mtDNA mutation in the energy transducing system. Recent advances in gene technology, especially in polymerase chain reactions (PCR), permit us to analyze mtDNA mutations in a small quantity of tissue. We devised rapid and accurate methods to detect mitochondrial mutations--the primer shift PCR method, PCR-Southern method, the modified primer shift PCR method, and the asymmetric PCR method. With these methods, we analyzed myocardia mtDNA in human cadavers of various ages (from 3 years old to 97 years old, mean 57 years old). The 7.4 kb deletion of mtDNA was commonly detected in elderly subjects, and the proportion of deleted mtDNA to normal mtDNA increased with age. Deleted mtDNA was observed in all subjects that were over 70 years old. The mutation was based on the directly repeated sequence: 5'-CATCAA-CAACCG-3', which exists in both the adenosine triphosphatase 6 gene and the displacement loop (D-loop) region. Replication impairment occurred at that directly repeated sequence, which caused the elimination of genomes between the adenosine triphosphatase 6 gene and the D-loop region and resulted in a 7.4 kb deletion. 
Indications for modification of coexisting dual atrioventricular node pathways in patients undergoing surgical ablation of accessory atrioventricular connections Concomitant susceptibility to atrioventricular (AV) node reentrant tachycardia has been demonstrated in certain patients having reentrant tachycardia utilizing accessory AV connections. For those patients undergoing accessory connection ablation, AV node surgical modification may be warranted during the same operative procedure. To assess indications for a combined operative procedure, this study evaluated potential predictors of subsequent spontaneous AV node reentrant tachycardia in patients undergoing ablation of accessory AV connections. Among 62 consecutive patients undergoing surgical ablation of an accessory AV connection, 13 (21%) manifested dual AV node pathways. The latter were identified preoperatively in five patients (four with concealed and one with bidirectional accessory connections) and postoperatively in seven (all seven with bidirectional accessory connections). In one patient with a bidirectional accessory connection, dual AV node pathways could not be demonstrated preoperatively, but AV node reentrant tachycardia was induced. Operative ablation of an accessory connection was successful in all patients. However, postoperatively, 2 of the 13 patients had inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia, 5 had AV node "echo" beats and 6 had no inducible arrhythmia. During 26 +/- 7 months of follow-up study, the two patients with inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia postoperatively had symptomatic AV node reentrant tachycardia. In addition, the one patient with inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia preoperatively had recurrence of this tachycardia 4 months after attempted surgical modification of the AV node. Consequently, although dual AV node pathways appear to be common in patients undergoing surgical ablation of an accessory AV connection (21%), only a small group (3 of 13) of these patients are at risk for subsequent clinical AV node reentrant tachycardia. 
A mutant alpha subunit of Gi2 induces neoplastic transformation of Rat-1 cells. In a recently discovered class of oncogenes, GTPase-inhibiting mutations constitutively activate alpha subunits of signal-transducing guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins). Somatic mutations in a subclass of endocrine tumors are found in the arginine-179 codon of the alpha subunit of Gi2 (alpha i2), creating the putative gip2 oncogene. We have tested the ability of gip2 to mediate neoplastic transformation of Rat-1 and NIH 3T3 fibroblasts in tissue culture. Expression of a mutant alpha i2 cDNA encoding cysteine in place of arginine-179 (alpha i2-R179C) caused Rat-1 cells to grow to a higher density in monolayer culture, to lose anchorage dependence, and to form tumors when injected subcutaneously into nude mice. In contrast, expression of alpha i2-R179C failed to alter growth or tumorigenicity of NIH 3T3 cells. We conclude that gip2 is an oncogene, by the criterion that it induces neoplastic transformation of Rat-1 cells. Failure of gip2 to transform NIH 3T3 cells is in keeping with clinical indications that gip2 is a tissue-selective oncogene. 
Prognostic factors in multiple myeloma. The pretreatment characteristics of 265 multiple myeloma patients treated between 1977 and 1983 were evaluated as potential prognostic factors for survival. Patients whose diagnosis was based on bone marrow plasmacytosis (greater than 30%) were noticed to have poorer survival (P less than 0.001). Although classification of patients according to stage has traditionally been used to identify prognostic groups, differences in survival were noted only between Stage III and Stage I or II patients using one of two common staging systems. Multivariate analysis using Cox's proportional hazards model identified the following prognostic factors in order of importance: plasmacytosis (hazard ratio [HR] = 2.2, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.49 to 3.27), hypercalcemia (HR = 1.68, CI = 1.22 to 2.32), hypoalbuminemia (HR = 1.51, CI = 1.15 to 1.99), alkaline phosphatase (HR = 1.62, CI = 1.18 to 2.23), hyperuricemia (HR = 1.46, CI = 1.09 to 1.96), and renal insufficiency (HR = 1.48, CI = 1.08 to 2.04). All patients were followed from 2 to 7.5 years and 130 (49%) survived over 2 years. Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that hyperuricemia, hypoalbuminemia, renal insufficiency, plasmacytosis, gender, alkaline phosphatase, and hypercalcemia were significant predictors of 2-year survival. Knowledge of these factors could be of value in predicting prognosis and planning therapy in patients with multiple myeloma. 
Collagenous colitis: a prospective trial of prednisolone in six patients. In a prospective study, the clinicopathological effect of prednisolone was evaluated in six patients with collagenous colitis. Prednisolone was associated with a significant decrease in stool frequency. However, the effect was transitory, since the diarrhoea recurred when prednisolone treatment was discontinued. There was a trend toward a diminished inflammatory response in the post-treatment biopsies, but the thickness of the collagen band remained unchanged, except in one patient. Until the results of further studies are available, we recommend that treatment with prednisolone be restricted to periods of acute diarrhoeal episodes. 
Early prediction of acute myocardial infarction from clinical history, examination and electrocardiogram in the emergency room. The possibility of early prediction of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was assessed in 7,157 consecutive patients coming to our emergency room during a 21-month period with chest pain or other symptoms suggestive of AMI. Of these patients 921 developed an AMI during the first 3 days in the hospital. Of the 4,690 patients admitted to hospital, 1,576 (34%) had a normal admission electrocardiogram, and 90 of these (6%) developed AMI. Of 1,964 patients with an abnormal electrocardiogram without signs of acute ischemia (42% of those admitted), 268 (14%) developed AMI, and 563 (51%) of 1,109 patients with acute ischemia on the electrocardiogram (24%) developed AMI. All patients were prospectively classified in the emergency room on the basis of history, clinical examination and electrocardiogram into 1 of 4 categories, according to the initial degree of suspicion of AMI. Of 279 admitted patients judged to have an obvious AMI (6% of the 4,690), 245 (88%) actually developed AMI; of 1,426 with a strong suspicion of AMI (30%), 478 (34%) developed one; of 2,519 with a vague suspicion of AMI (54%), 192 (8%) developed one; and of 466 with no suspicion of AMI (10%), 6 (1%) developed one. Thus, only a low percentage of the patients with a normal initial electrocardiogram or a vague initial suspicion of AMI developed a confirmed AMI. 
Evaluation of the patient presenting with headache. In order to treat the patient presenting with headache successfully, one must carefully question, examine, and study the complete patient as well as his or her complaint of headache. Through direct and indirect questioning, a complete history may be obtained by exploring present illness, past medical history, family history, personal and social history, and systems review. A detailed medical and neurologic examination is also necessary to evaluate the complaint of headache. A comprehensive screening laboratory profile should be employed, but neurodiagnostic studies should only be used judiciously. A combined medical and neurologic approach will permit appropriate identification and effective treatment of the specific headache disorder rather than the isolated complaint of headache. 
Results of surgery for extratemporal partial epilepsy that began in childhood. Thirty-five consecutive patients who underwent surgery for intractable extratemporal seizures originating in childhood are described. Candidates for surgery were selected on the basis of clinical criteria, neurodiagnostic imaging, and an electroencephalographic investigation that included the use of sphenoidal electrodes and long-term monitoring. Invasive preoperative monitoring was not used. Our results, with respect to the control of seizures and behavioral improvement, are comparable with series in which data from invasive recordings were used in the selection process. Sixty-three percent of the 35 patients (76.5% of those operated on after the introduction of long-term electroencephalographic monitoring) became either seizure free or experienced a reduction in their frequency of seizures by at least 75%. The favorable outcome in this group of patients strengthens the argument for early operation in children with intractable epilepsy, even when the seizure focus is outside the temporal lobe. 
High breath pentane concentrations during acute myocardial infarction To investigate whether reperfusion after myocardial ischaemia leads to free-radical-mediated peroxidation of membrane lipids and cell damage, we measured pentane, a product of lipid peroxidation, in the breath of 10 healthy control subjects and in 20 consecutive patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. 10 of these patients showed no myocardial damage on electrocardiography (patient control group) and 10 satisfied standard diagnostic criteria for acute myocardial infarction. The three groups were well matched for age, sex, underlying disease, and smoking habits. The time from onset of chest pain to breath collection was similar in the patient control and acute myocardial infarction groups. The breath pentane concentration was higher (p less than 0.0001) in the acute myocardial infarction group (4.96 [1.15] nmol/l) than in the patient control (1.96 [1.04] nmol/l) and healthy control groups (1.71 [0.87] nmol/l). Lipid peroxidation during acute myocardial infarction reflects action of oxygen radicals and their potential for contribution to the pathogenesis of tissue damage. 
T cells from tumor-immune mice nonspecifically expanded in vitro with anti-CD3 plus IL-2 retain specific function in vitro and can eradicate disseminated leukemia in vivo. The therapeutic efficacy of adoptive immunotherapy of cancer has been shown to positively correlate with the dose of tumor-immune T cells transferred. Therefore, the success of this therapy is critically dependent on the ability to procure large numbers of functionally active T cells. Previous studies in animal models have shown that the limited therapeutic efficacy of a small number of immune T cells can be greatly enhanced by expansion of T cells in vitro to greater numbers before transfer in vivo. Optimal regimens for T cell expansion in vitro have generally employed the use of intermittent stimulation of the TCR with specific Ag followed by exogenous IL-2. The use of IL-2 alone does not provide for requisite episodic up-regulation of IL-2R. Stimulation of the invariant CD3 portion of the TCR/CD3 complex with antibody to CD3 (anti-CD3) represents an alternative method of up-regulating IL-2R and has been used to nonspecifically induce the growth of Ag-specific T cell lines and clones long-term in vitro with maintenance of function and specificity. The current study examined whether resting T cell populations containing small numbers of memory tumor-specific T cells could be rendered more effective in tumor therapy by nonspecific expansion in vitro with anti-CD3 plus IL-2. Spleens from C57BL/6 mice previously immunized to FBL-3, a syngeneic virus-induced leukemia, were nonspecifically stimulated with anti-CD3 plus IL-2. The resultant T cells were expanded in number, were nonlytic to FBL-3 but retained the ability to become lytic upon specific stimulation by FBL-3, and were effective in specific tumor therapy. The Ag-specific anti-tumor immune function declined on a per cell basis after each cycle of anti-CD3-induced T cell expansion. However, the approach resulted in a substantial increase in total T cell number and an overall net increase in the function of the effector T cell population. Thus, stimulation of tumor-immune T cell populations with anti-CD3 plus IL-2 represents a nonspecific method for expanding the number of specific effector T cells for cancer therapy. 
Welander's distal myopathy: clinical, neurophysiological and muscle biopsy observations in young and middle aged adults with early symptoms. Nine young or middle aged patients with early symptoms of Welander's distal myopathy were subjected to a detailed neurological examination including quantitative sensory testing, determination of motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity (NCV), sensory nerve action potentials, electromyography (EMG) and muscle biopsy from the tibialis anterior muscle (TA). Slight weakness of the extensors of the fingers and hands was found in all nine patients, and of the dorsiflexors of the feet in seven. All patients had a distal sensory disturbance most prominent for temperature which agrees with earlier observations. EMG changes in TA and extensor digitorum communis (EDC) muscles were of myopathic type. Slight abnormalities compatible with either myopathy or early neuropathy were found in one muscle biopsy. These findings indicate that a neurogenic lesion affecting at least the peripheral sensory system is present at an early stage of Welander's distal myopathy and that the neurogenic lesion might precede the myopathic changes. 
Exercise electrocardiography versus dipyridamole echocardiography testing in coronary angioplasty. Early functional evaluation and prediction of angina recurrence. Recently, we have shown the usefulness of high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography testing (DET) as an exercise-independent method for the evaluation of patients having coronary angioplasty. The purpose of the present study was to determine the value of DET compared with exercise testing in the early functional evaluation after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and in the prediction of late recurrence of angina. We performed DET and exercise testing in 52 consecutive patients both before and after successful PTCA. Criteria of positivity for DET were transient dyssynergy absent or negligible in the baseline examination and exercise testing for an ST segment shift greater than 0.1 mV from baseline. All patients had an angiographically successful PTCA: the percent stenosis went from 78 +/- 7% before to 30 +/- 7% after PTCA. Exercise testing was positive in 49 and 29 patients, respectively, before and after PTCA (94% versus 44%, p less than 0.001). DET was positive in 47 patients before and in 10 after PTCA (90% versus 19%, p less than 0.001). Recurrence of angina was found in 18 patients: 14 of 23 with positive and four of 29 with negative exercise testing after PTCA. With DET, recurrence of angina was found in eight of 10 patients with positive and 10 of 42 with negative DET after PTCA. 
Cutaneous multilobated T-cell lymphoma with aggressive course. Cutaneous multilobated T-cell lymphoma is an uncommon variant of skin-based peripheral T-cell lymphoma typically characterized by cutaneous nodules in elderly patients and a chronic clinical course. We report a case of the disease that led to the patient's death within 2 years after onset. This disease may be associated with a more aggressive clinical course than generally recognized. 
Coronary angioplasty in octogenarians: comparisons to coronary bypass surgery. Coronary angioplasty was performed in 74 patients 80 years of age and older (mean 83 +/- 3). Single vessel coronary disease was present in 34% and multivessel coronary disease in 66%. Angioplasty of a single vessel was performed in 51 patients (69%), while 23 (31%) had angioplasty of multiple vessels. Angioplasty was successful in 59 of 74 patients (80%). Angioplasty was unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 12 (16%) due to (unyielding) calcified lesions or (impassable) old occlusions. Of these 12, 8 were discharged on medical therapy and 4 underwent elective uncomplicated bypass surgery prior to discharge. Three (4%) patients required emergency coronary bypass surgery due to abrupt vessel closure during the angioplasty procedure, with one hospital death (1.4%). Follow-up (mean 24 +/- 22 months) was obtained in all patients. Of the 59 successful angioplasty patients, late mortality was 10% (cardiac 7% and non-cardiac 3%). Survival and survival without myocardial infarction were both 90%; survival without either infarction or bypass surgery was 86%. Actuarial 3-year survival was 91% and 3-year freedom from death, infarction or bypass surgery was 87% by life-table analysis. Repeat angioplasty for restenosis was performed in 7 patients (12%) without complications. 
Prevention of deep vein thrombosis after elective hip surgery. A randomized trial comparing low molecular weight heparin with standard unfractionated heparin OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative efficacy and safety of low molecular weight (LMW) heparin (Enoxaparin) compared with standard calcium heparin for the prevention of postoperative deep vein thrombosis in patients undergoing elective hip surgery. DESIGN: A double-blind, randomized, controlled trial. PATIENTS: Six hundred sixty-five consecutive patients undergoing hip replacement at five participating hospitals. INTERVENTIONS: Patients received either fixed-dose LMW heparin, 30 mg subcutaneously twice daily, or fixed-dose standard calcium heparin, 7500 units subcutaneously twice daily; both regimens were started 12 to 24 hours after surgery and continued for 14 days or until discharge if sooner. MEASUREMENTS: All patients had postoperative I-125-fibrinogen leg scanning and impedance plethysmography. If results of one or both tests were positive, then venography was done. Otherwise, venography was done between day 10 and day 14, or sooner if the patient was ready for discharge. RESULTS: Evaluable venograms were obtained in 258 of the 333 patients randomly assigned to receive LMW heparin and in 263 of the 332 patients assigned to receive calcium heparin. For patients with evaluable venograms, thrombosis was detected in 50 patients (19.4%) who received LMW heparin compared with 61 patients (23.2%) who received standard heparin (difference, -3.8%; 95% CI, -11.1% to 3.6%) (P greater than 0.2). Proximal deep vein thrombosis was detected in 5.4% of the patients receiving LMW heparin and in 6.5% of the patients receiving standard heparin (difference, -1.1%; CI, - 5.2% to 3.3%) (P greater than 0.2). For the entire group of 665 patients, venous thrombosis occurred in 17.1% given LMW heparin and in 19.0% given standard heparin. Hemorrhagic complications occurred in 31 patients (9.3%) given standard heparin and in 17 patients (5.1%) given LMW heparin (difference, 4.2%; CI, 0.3% to 8.2%) (P = 0.035). The relative risk reduction was 45%. The rate of major bleeding in the standard heparin group was 5.7% compared with 3.3% in the LMW heparin group (difference, 2.4%; CI, -1.0% to 5.4%) (P = 0.13). The relative risk reduction was 42%. CONCLUSION: Low molecular weight heparin is significantly less hemorrhagic than standard unfractionated heparin; the difference in the rate of deep vein thrombosis, although not statistically significant (P greater than 0.2), favors the use of LMW heparin. 
Posterior semicircular canal occlusion in the normal hearing ear. This report outlines our experience with posterior semicircular canal occlusion, a new operative procedure for intractable benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). We postulate that the resulting solid canal "plug" prevents endolymph movement within the posterior canal, which effectively fixes the cupula. This selectively abolishes the receptivity of the posterior canal to both angular acceleration and gravity without influencing the other inner ear receptors. We previously reported the success of this procedure in two patients with BPPV and a co-existing profound sensorineural hearing loss in the affected ear. Since that report, a slightly modified technique has been used to occlude six more posterior canals--five in normal hearing ears. While our follow-up times range from only 3 to 18 months, all eight patients continue to be relieved of their BPPV. Temporary mixed hearing losses occurred in three of the five ears with normal preoperative hearing. Hearing in all five patients ultimately returned to the preoperative state. We believe this procedure is a simpler and safer alternative to singular neurectomy for the treatment of intractable benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. 
Characterization of human renal fibroblasts in health and disease: I. Immunophenotyping of cultured tubular epithelial cells and fibroblasts derived from kidneys with histologically proven interstitial fibrosis. Recently, it has been shown that inflammatory and noninflammatory glomerular diseases are often complicated by changes in the tubulointerstitial system, mostly caused by renal interstitial fibrosis (IF). To analyze pathomechanisms of these tubulointerstitial lesions, growth behavior and expression of cell surface molecules of tubular epithelial cells and renal fibroblasts in culture, established using renal biopsies of IF, were studied. Furthermore, the capacity of renal fibroblasts in culture to produce extracellular matrix was investigated. Expression of MHC-class II antigens on proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs) has been induced by supplementing the culture medium with interferon gamma. Renal fibroblasts, the major cell types growing out from renal biopsies with interstitial fibrosis, form so-called hillocks in culture and synthesize collagen type I, III, and V. Further analysis using cocultures of tubular epithelial or renal endothelial cells on the one hand, and defined renal fibroblasts on the other, will clarify the interaction between these cell types, which probably will lead to a better understanding of the pathomechanisms causing disease progression. 
Asymptomatic constant isolated proteinuria in children. The clinical features, renal biopsy findings, and subsequent course in 53 children with asymptomatic constant isolated proteinuria were studied retrospectively (1) to determine the prevalence of renal pathologic abnormalities among these children, (2) to identify those clinical characteristics that may enable recognition of children with an increased likelihood of having renal pathologic abnormalities, and (3) to assess the clinical course. All biopsy specimens were examined by light, immunofluorescence, and electron microscopy. Twenty-five patients (47%) had significant glomerular changes (15 had focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, 4 IgA nephropathy, 3 diffuse mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis without IgA deposition, and 3 membranous glomerulonephritis), and 28 had minimal glomerular changes. There were no differences between the patients with significant glomerular changes and those with minimal glomerular changes with regard to clinical and laboratory findings except for a predominance of boys in the former group. At the latest follow-up, seven patients with significant glomerular changes, but none with minimal glomerular changes, had chronic renal impairment. Because of the high incidence of significant glomerular changes and the high rate of progression to chronic renal impairment, we believe that a renal biopsy is indicated for a child with asymptomatic constant isolated proteinuria. 
Single lung transplantation. Alternative indications and technique. Twenty-two patients have undergone 23 single lung transplants between March 1980 and April 1990 at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio. The actuarial survival rate is 77.27% at 12 months and 72.73% at 24 months. There have been no instances of bronchial dehiscence or stenosis, even though 13 of the patients were on a program of preoperative prednisone, every patient had high-dose perioperative methylprednisolone, and omental wraps were not used on any bronchial anastomosis. Of particular interest is the fact that three patients had primary pulmonary hypertension, three had secondary pulmonary hypertension, and 10 patients had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, due in five cases to an alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. Each of these entities was previously thought to contraindicate single lung transplantation. Donor selection was based on an oxygen tension/inspired oxygen concentration ratio greater than 300, donor/recipient chest circumference within 3 inches, clear chest x-ray film, negative sputum Gram stain, and less than 6-hour estimated ischemic time. Harvest technique included donor prostaglandin E1 500 micrograms, topical slush, and pulmonoplegia with cold Euro-Collins solution. The heart and lung were separated in situ rather than the heart lung block being removed. A telescoping bronchial anastomosis was performed with 4-0 Prolene (not absorbable) sutures. We conclude that single lung transplantation has evolved into a simple operation, necessitating meticulous preoperative and postoperative care, which can be performed on a wide spectrum of critically ill patients with an acceptable mortality rate. 
Long-term survival analysis in hereditary hemochromatosis. This study investigated the long-term survival rates of 85 patients with hereditary hemochromatosis. Eighty-five patients with documented hereditary hemochromatosis diagnosed between 1958 and 1989 and followed up at the University Hospital (University of Western Ontario) medical center were retrospectively reviewed for this analysis. The current status of the patient was assessed by interview or written questionnaire completed by the patient or the family physician. Estimates of differences in survival rates were obtained using Kaplan-Meier life-table and Cox regression analysis. Liver histology, clinical features of the disease, and number of venesections were analyzed to determine their relationship to survival. In the course of a mean follow-up interval of 8.1 +/- 6.8 years (range, 0-31 years), there were 17 deaths among the 85 hemochromatosis patients. Patients with cirrhosis at the time of diagnosis were 5.5 times more likely to die than noncirrhotic patients. Patients who were noncirrhotic at the time of diagnosis had an estimated survival that was not significantly different from age- and sex-matched members of the normal population. Diabetes did not increase the risk of death after data were controlled for the presence of cirrhosis. Early diagnosis and treatment of hemochromatosis in the precirrhotic stage can lead to long-term survival similar to that in the general population. The presence of cirrhosis significantly increases mortality and is the major clinical factor affecting survival. 
Premenstrual syndrome. Because researchers are still seeking the cause of PMS, we cannot recommend a single treatment approach that will work satisfactorily with all women who have the syndrome. Investigators have made progress, however, toward defining and diagnosing the condition. We also can help women whose lives are disrupted each month by prescribing specific approaches to symptom management. 
Ifosfamide, Fanconi's syndrome, and rickets. Three of 218 children treated with ifosfamide plus the uroprotectant mesna, in single- or combination-agent protocols, have developed Fanconi's renal syndrome, all of whom were in a subgroup of 86 children who had also received cisplatin or carboplatin therapy. Patients receiving ifosfamide who have received prior cisplatin (or carboplatin) are at significantly higher risk of developing Fanconi's syndrome than are those who have received no prior nephrotoxic therapy (P = .04). The role of prior nephrotoxic therapy, including cisplatin and its derivatives, and the total dose of ifosfamide should be considered in the assessment of this rare but serious and apparently irreversible side effect. 
Gastric antral vascular ectasia associated with gastric carcinoma. Gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE), or watermelon stomach, is an uncommon cause of chronic gastrointestinal blood loss and iron deficiency anemia. Although GAVE has not previously been reported in association with gastric cancer, it is often associated with atrophic gastritis and pernicious anemia, which are known risk factors for gastric malignancy. We report a 72-yr-old woman with pernicious anemia who was found to have GAVE associated with adenosquamous carcinoma of the gastric cardia and adenocarcinoma in situ of the pylorus. In view of recent reports of the use of endoscopic modalities rather than surgical resection to treat GAVE, our case alerts endoscopists to the possibility of coexisting carcinoma. 
Adjuvant intravesicular pharmacotherapy for superficial bladder cancer. In 1990, bladder cancer, excluding carcinoma in situ, was estimated to contribute 49,000 cases of cancer. In men 75 years old or older, it became the fifth leading cause of cancer deaths. Of patients with bladder cancer, 75%-80% initially present with superficial bladder tumors. Treatment of these tumors has three objectives: 1) to eradicate existing disease, 2) to provide prophylaxis against tumor recurrence, and 3) to avoid deep invasion into the muscle layers of the bladder. Transurethral resection is the primary treatment to eradicate superficial bladder tumors, but 40%-80% of these tumors recur. Because of these high recurrence rates, adjuvant intravesicular pharmacotherapy with cytotoxic and immunomodulatory drugs has gained widespread use. The past two decades of clinical investigations in superficial bladder cancer have provided valuable information on the biology and treatment of the disease. Multivariate analyses have indicated that tumor grade and stage are the most important prognostic variables commonly available to the clinician to identify the patient at greatest risk of developing muscle-invasive or metastatic bladder cancer. These studies have also identified groups at low risk for tumor recurrence and invasive bladder cancer. Randomized trials have shown that recurrence rates are decreased by adjuvant intravesicular pharmacotherapy with a number of drugs: bacillus Calmette-Guerin vaccine (BCG), doxorubicin, ethoglucid (Epodyl), mitomycin-C, teniposide, and thiotepa. However, few studies indicate that adjuvant intravesicular pharmacotherapy can prevent progression to invasive bladder cancer in the high-risk patient with superficial bladder cancer. Additional clinical trials are needed to determine whether such therapy can prevent invasive and metastatic bladder cancer and improve disease-free survival in this group. In addition, the identification of tests (e.g., monoclonal antibody tests, chromosomal analyses, and tumor marker assays) that can help to identify high-risk patients is needed to better develop therapeutic strategies for superficial bladder cancer. 
Primary malignant melanoma of the scrotum: case report and literature review. Malignant melanoma of the scrotum is the rarest of primary genitourinary melanomas, with only 3 cases reported previously. We present an additional case of this often aggressive malignancy. The pertinent literature is reviewed and the current management strategies are discussed. 
A controlled study of the effectiveness of spot dermabrasion ('scarabrasion') on the appearance of surgical scars. We report the results of a controlled study on the use of spot dermabrasion ("scarabrasion") on surgical scars. In a split scar model, linear scars produced by full-thickness surgical excisions on the face, trunk, and extremities were studied in 48 patients. Results of abrasion of the left (top) half of each scar were compared with the untreated right (bottom) half. Although scars were improved at 4 and 6 weeks after injury, a significantly greater number responded to abrasion at 8 weeks (p less than 0.05). All regions of the body showed comparable improvement. The diamond fraise was found to be an effective instrument for scarabrasion. 
Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome associated with endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary. Both EST and Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome are uncommon disorders. This report illustrates a case of these two rare conditions occurring in the same patient. Patients with Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome, although not appearing to be at increased risk for germ cell tumors, unlike testicular feminization patients, are not immune to ovarian cancer. Therefore, individuals with Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome should still be followed gynecologically because they are at least at the normal risk of developing ovarian as well as other gynecological neoplasms. 
Thrombolysis in refractory unstable angina. Multiple drug therapy, including nitrates, beta blockers, calcium antagonists, aspirin, and heparin, has been advocated as effective in the treatment of unstable angina, a syndrome with a multifactorial pathogenesis. Recently, plaque rupture and thrombosis have been demonstrated as the most important pathogenetic mechanisms. Nevertheless, clear-cut results on the effects of thrombolytic treatment in unstable angina are still lacking. Some possible explanations why the medical treatment of unstable angina has still not yet been standardized, whereas that of myocardial infarction has, are suggested. A review of randomized and nonrandomized studies published on this topic evaluating the role of different thrombolytic agents in unstable angina is presented. In addition the role of coronary angiography is discussed. In view of the disappointing results of coronary artery bypass surgery performed in the acute phase of the disease, one of the goals of clinical research is to identify subsets of patients at high and low risk and who undergo different types of therapeutic interventions. To support published data suggesting that total myocardial ischemia has a significant impact on prognosis, we present our results of a study carried out on patients with refractory unstable angina treated with thrombolytic therapy and evaluated with continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in the attempt to correlate total myocardial ischemia with short-term prognosis. Data in favor of the prognostic role of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in unstable angina are also reviewed. Finally, we propose some suggestions that might be useful for future studies. 
Emergency department treatment of alcohol withdrawal seizures with phenytoin. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Prevention of recurrent alcohol withdrawal seizures is a common emergency department problem. A prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of adequate size was designed to assess the efficacy of phenytoin in preventing recurrence of alcohol withdrawal seizures. METHODS: Fifty-five patients who had seized from alcohol withdrawal were randomly assigned to treatment with IV phenytoin or placebo. Patients with known seizure disorders and those receiving any anticonvulsant were excluded. The study was terminated after seizure recurrence or passage of a six-hour, high-risk seizure interval. RESULTS: Six of 28 phenytoin-treated patients (21%) had recurrent seizures compared with five of 27 placebo-treated patients (19%). The 95% confidence interval for the difference in response probabilities was +16% to -20%. There was no statistically significant difference between the response rates for the two treatments (P greater than .05). CONCLUSION: Phenytoin does not show significant benefit over placebo in preventing recurrence of alcohol withdrawal seizures. 
Natural history of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To describe the natural history and disease progression of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and to assess the therapeutic effects of orally administered steroids on the disorder as of October 1990. DESIGN: Case-series analysis. A cohort of 45 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome was followed prospectively by periodic telephone interviews and medical examinations for an average of 14 months after onset of illness. SETTING: Washington state. PATIENTS: The cases of 47 patients were reported to the Washington State Department of Health from 1 July to 12 December 1989. Two patients were unavailable for follow-up, and the remaining 45 completed the study. MAIN RESULTS: Patients were predominantly non-Hispanic white women (87%) with an average age of 49 years. Symptoms typically progressed from early onset of myalgia and fatigue to later development of neurologic and scleroderma-like skin changes. Six (13%) patients recovered completely within 2 to 5 months of symptom onset. After 14 months of illness, over half of the patients who initially presented with myalgia, fatigue, or scleroderma-like skin changes remained symptomatic. The average severity of each major symptom was measured using interviews and patient self-reports and has improved subjectively by at least 40%. Statistical analyses showed no significant difference in long-term symptom duration or severity between patients treated and those not treated with prednisone. CONCLUSIONS: The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a long-term illness characterized by progressive improvement during the first 25 weeks after symptom onset, followed by a protracted phase of symptom resolution. We could not show a clear-cut benefit of prednisone in reducing the long-term severity or duration of the disease. 
Leptomeningeal dissemination of optic pathway gliomas in three children. We treated three children with optic pathway gliomas who had progressive disease associated with metastatic spread to the leptomeninges. One patient had radiographic resolution of leptomeningeal disease after treatment with intravenous carmustine and oral mercaptopurine but died of progressive pulmonary fibrosis. The second patient was treated with intravenous thiotepa, and the leptomeningeal disease remained stable. The third patient was treated with intravenous vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and etoposide and had a significant size reduction of the leptomeningeal lesion. Although leptomeningeal dissemination is a seemingly rare event, it is important that all children with optic pathway gliomas be considered for this possibility, particularly after the onset of new, atypical neurologic symptoms. 
Somatostatin, gastrin-releasing peptide and gastrin in the stomach of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes and insulinoma. Somatostatin, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) and gastrin were measured in the stomach of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes, insulinoma-bearing rats and their respective controls. Rats injected with streptozotocin exhibited hyperphagia, insulinopenia and severe hyperglycemia. Stomach weights, and the concentrations and total amounts of GRP and gastrin in the stomach, were similar to nondiabetic control rats. The concentration of somatostatin in the stomach of diabetic rats was 25% greater, but the total stomach content of somatostatin was similar to that of control rats. Insulinoma-bearing rats exhibited hyperphagia, hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia. Concentrations of GRP and gastrin in the stomach were 72% and 19% lower, respectively, than in control rats. Despite 45% greater stomach weight, the total stomach content of GRP was 61% lower. Stomach concentrations of somatostatin, and total stomach contents of somatostatin and gastrin, were similar in insulinoma-bearing and control rats. The results demonstrate abnormalities in the stomach concentrations of regulatory peptides in rats with diabetes and insulinoma. These abnormalities are not attributable to changes in food intake alone, suggesting specific effects of these metabolic diseases on gastric regulatory peptides and gastric function. 
Interpretation of the alveolar-arterial oxygen difference in patients with hypercapnia. According to conventional wisdom the difference between alveolar and arterial O2 tensions, the AaPO2, should distinguish between hypoxemia caused by alveolar hypoventilation and hypoxemia caused by alveolar hypoventilation complicated by other abnormalities of gas exchange. To test this concept we have calculated the AaPO2 from arterial blood gas measurements, breathing air, in 23 patients with hypercapnia, hypoxemia, and advanced obstructive lung disease (mean FEV1 = 0.88 L). We found that AaPO2 varied inversely with PaCO2 (r = -0.83, p less than 0.001). In five of these patients with the most severely elevated PaCO2 (range, 59 to 81 mm Hg) the AaPO2 was within normal limits. We also calculated the difference between the O2 contents of "ideal" pulmonary capillary blood and arterial blood and expressed this as the venous admixture (QVA/QT) based on an assumed arteriovenous content difference of 4.5 ml/dl. In contrast to the AaPO2, the QVA/QT, was abnormal in all patients (mean = 41 +/- 8%). We conclude that the AaPO2 may be an unreliable indicator of abnormal gas exchange in the presence of alveolar hypoventilation. This finding can be explained by substantial changes in the position of the alveolar and arterial points on the oxygen dissociation curve for hemoglobin in the presence of alveolar hypoxia secondary to hypoventilation. 
Preoperative prostate-specific antigen in predicting pathologic stage and grade after radical prostatectomy. Preoperative serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) was measured in 63 men who had clinically localized, previously untreated adenocarcinoma of the prostate and underwent subsequent radical prostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection. Pathologic stage and grade were correlated to the serum PSA value. Patients with organ-confined (P1, P2) and extracapsular (P3, P3N +) prostate cancer had elevated preoperative serum PSA levels (greater than 4 ng/mL) in 61 and 90 percent of cases, respectively. Patients with low-grade and high-grade tumor histology had elevated preoperative PSA levels in 62 and 80 percent of cases, respectively. In distinguishing between organ-confined and extracapsular disease with a preoperative serum PSA of 10 ng/mL as a cutoff value, the sensitivity was 68 percent, the specificity was 66 percent, the positive predictive value was 46 percent, and the negative predictive value was 83 percent. Although there was a trend of increasing preoperative serum PSA levels with higher pathologic stage or grade, there was no significant difference in preoperative serum PSA values with pathologic stage and/or grade considered as a group or in determining stage and/or grade preoperatively on an individual basis. 
A population-based study on the incidence and survival rates of 3857 glioma patients diagnosed from 1953 to 1984. Intracranial glioma was diagnosed during the patient's life and histologically verified in 3857 patients between 1953 and 1984 in Finland. Their survival up to the end of 1987 was analyzed, the follow-up being complete. The treatment was by operation in 1193 cases, radiation in 459 cases, both operation and radiation in 1486 cases, and neither operation nor radiation in 719 cases. The 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, and 15-year cumulative relative survival rates were 0.53, 0.29, 0.20, and 0.18, respectively. The newborn to 14-year-olds lost 56% of their life expectancy; the 15-year-olds to 44-year-olds, 71%; the 45-year-olds to 64-year-olds, 88%; and the 65-year-olds to 99-year-olds, 91%. According to the model with the best fit in regression analysis the prognosis was significantly better among young, recently diagnosed patients who had undergone both operation and radiation. 
Thermal effects and histologic changes from Nd:YAG laser irradiation on normal and diseased aortic tissue using a novel angioplasty catheter with a mobile optical fiber: an in vitro assessment. Although various laser angioplasty devices are currently being examined, thermal damage and perforation of the vessel wall remains the major acute complication of vascular laser recanalization. Consequently, the aim of this study was to investigate the thermal effects and histologic changes from laser irradiation (Nd:YAG, 1064 nm) on normal and diseased aortic tissue using a novel angioplasty device. During laser emission the coaxially guided optical fiber tip was positioned in reference to the end hole of the metallic capped probe as follows: (1) at the end hole (metal-cap position), (2) protruding 10 mm from that end hole (bare-fiber position), (3) withdrawn 5 mm into the metal cap's lumen (hot-tip position). In total, 96 laser impacts (25 joule: 5 W, 5 s, each) were produced on normal and atherosclerotic aorta in air through a 0.2-mm-core-diameter silica quartz fiber, with direct contact on the intimal surface of the target tissue by both the fiber and the metal cap and by either the fiber or the metal cap (n = 32 each). Tissue temperature was measured by means of special sensors positioned opposite the irradiated intimal spot in direct contact with the adventitial surface. Morphohistologic evaluation of lesions was performed and injury indexes were determined. 
Use of a chlorhexidine dressing to reduce microbial colonization of epidural catheters. We performed a prospective randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of a chlorhexidine dressing in reducing the microbial flora at the insertion site of epidural catheters. These catheters were used for acute pain management and were dressed either by a standardized method or with a CHX/urethane sponge composite. Microbial colonization of the catheter developed in 9 of 31 controls (29.0%) and 1 of 26 (3.8%) catheters with the CHX dressing (P less than 0.05%). The CHX dressing caused no adverse effects. The data suggest that delivery of antiseptic to the catheter wound site reduces catheter colonization with a possible reduction in the risk of epidural catheter-related infection. 
Development of human neural transplantation. The possibility of altering the course of Parkinson's disease by brain grafting is slowly becoming a reality through the efforts of many research groups worldwide. It has been shown that this procedure, as performed in high-level medical research centers, usually produces no permanent adverse effects and can effectively ameliorate parkinsonian signs in certain patients. This progress has served to reinforce our commitment to develop neural transplantation into an effective therapy to treat such a devastating neurodegenerative disease. We have summarized the most important events that have shaped the initial phase of this research. In the course of the last 4 years, considerable knowledge has been gained in the clinical neurosciences regarding the real potential of various brain grafting procedures in treating Parkinson's disease, their shortcomings, and their usefulness in carefully selected patients. There is still no consensus regarding the various fundamental aspects of human brain grafting in Parkinson's disease. Questions concerning surgical technique, candidate selection, the optimal brain regions for implantation, the optimal tissue for implantation, and the real usefulness of brain grafting must be addressed. The importance of the quality of adrenal medulla fragments for grafting, the requirement for immunosuppressors in fetal brain grafting, and the optimal fetal age and the amount of donor tissue for effective grafting are additional areas of concern. The potential of xenografting, preserved tissues, and genetically engineered cells for human brain grafting remain unanswered. The development of human neural transplantation is the responsibility and privilege of neurosurgery. 
Peritoneal endometriosis: endometrial tissue implantation as its primary etiologic mechanism. The mechanisms involved in primary implantation of pelvic endometriosis were investigated in women undergoing laparoscopy as part of an infertility evaluation. Among the women with a diagnosis of endometriosis, those with no observed lesions in the ovaries and no adhesions in the pelvic cavity were classified as being in stage I. These women were further subdivided into two groups: the stage Ia group in which implants were found in one area (25 women) and the stage Ib group in which implants were found in two or more areas (29 women). In both groups the most frequent site was the uterosacral ligaments followed by the posterior uterine serosa, the posterior cul-de-sac, and the posterior broad ligaments in that order. Regardless of the position of the uterus, endometriosis was found significantly more frequently in the posterior compartment. The finding that the most frequent implants on the uterosacral ligaments were near the tubal ostium and, in the stage Ia group, the absence of implants on the anterior uterine serosa but a 33% frequency on the posterior uterine serosa, which is more frequently exposed to menstrual blood, suggest that implantation of endometriosis is the result of retrograde menstruation. However, the possibility that metaplasia of the serosal epithelium is stimulated by menstrual blood cannot be ruled out, inasmuch as the process of implantation in the peritoneum has not yet been proved. 
Experimental hemorrhage and blunt trauma do not increase circulating tumor necrosis factor. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a potent cytokine mediator of the shock states associated with sepsis and burn injury. This experimental study was done to determine whether circulating TNF plays a major role in the vasomotor collapse seen following experimental hemorrhage and blunt injury. Twenty anesthetized pigs were divided into two groups. Ten animals were bled 60% of their calculated blood volume in 15 minutes. Animals in Group IA (n = 5) had no treatment, and Group IB animals (n = 5) were given twice the shed volume as crystalloid 30 minutes after hemorrhage. The other animals, groups IIa and IIb (n = 5 each), were first subjected to a blunt injury to the thigh sufficient to cause a midshaft femur fracture, then bled and similarly treated. In both groups, mean arterial pressure (MAP), cardiac output (CO), and serum TNF activity by L929 bioassay were measured at 15-minute intervals for 120 minutes after hemorrhage or hemorrhage and blunt injury. An additional three animals were infused with 4 x 10(8)/kg heat-killed E. coli to validate the TNF assay. All bled animals sustained a fall in MAP and CO to a mean of 33% of baseline values, with or without fracture. Group IB and IIB animals responded to fluid resuscitation by restoration of MAP and CO to 85%-97% of the baseline values. Tumor necrosis factor was not detectable before injury and remained undetectable in all these animals during the 120 minutes of the experiment despite hemorrhage alone or combined hemorrhage and blunt trauma, with or without fluid resuscitation. The test animals receiving the E. coli responded with markedly elevated TNF levels, which peaked at 90 minutes after injection. 
Effect of disc degeneration at one level on the adjacent level in axial mode. Nonlinear three-dimensional finite element models of a ligamentous two motion segments spine specimen (L3-L4-L5) were developed to investigate the effects of disc degeneration, simulated at the L4-L5 level, on the biomechanical behavior of the adjacent intact L3-L4 motion segment. The disc degeneration was simulated by removing the hydrostatic capabilities of the nucleus and making the L4-L5 disc stiffer than a normal disc. The results of the degenerated model were compared with the predictions for a model in which the L4-L5 disc was left intact. The loads on the facets decreased, and intradiscal pressure in the intact L3-L4 disc increased as a result of disc degeneration compared with the intact model. The predicted increase in the intradiscal pressure and the associated increase in the disc bulge in the posterior region over time may trigger the degenerative process at the L3-L4 motion segment. This is in accordance with the Wolff's law; living tissue responds to chronic changes in stresses and strains. The limitations of the present two motion segments model and the potentials of multisegmental models are discussed. 
Immunological evidence for the co-existence of the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome and myasthenia gravis in two patients. Two patients are described in whom a clinical and electromyographic diagnosis of the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) was made. Serum antibodies to voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs), the antigenic target in LEMS and to acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), the antigen in myasthenia gravis, were detected at raised titres in both cases, using radioimmunoassays based on 125I-omega-Conotoxin labelled VGCCs and 125I-alpha-Bungarotoxin labelled AChRs. These data provide immunological evidence for the coexistence of the two disorders in these patients. 
Cancer risk among staff at two radiotherapy departments in Denmark. In comparison with the general Danish population, the relative risk (RR) for cancer among staff members employed in two radiotherapy departments in Denmark during 1954-1982 and alive on 1 April 1968 was assessed by linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry. All staff had been monitored with film dosimeters for exposure to radiation. The study cohort consisted of 4151 persons, accruing 49553 person-years at risk. The collective radiation dose was 76.54 manSv and the mean dose 18.4 mSv. A total of 163 cancer cases were observed with 152.3 expected. The risks for cancers usually considered to be radiogenic were not elevated. A significant excess of prostatic cancer was observed (five cases, relative risk, 6.02; 95% confidence interval, 1.94-14.06); this is likely to be a chance finding. No relation was observed between radiation dose or years of exposure and cancer risk, but a weak non-significant increase in risk with time since first exposure was seen. 
The economic implications of high-risk abdominal aortic aneurysms. Financial data of 102 patients undergoing elective and emergent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair over a 3-year period were evaluated in terms of postoperative length of stay, net revenue, total standard cost, and net margin. Cost reimbursement was based on diagnosis related group payments. Aneurysm repairs were classified as emergent, high-risk elective, or low-risk elective. A net loss of $409,459 was noted for the entire series. Emergent repairs, although only 12% of the population, accounted for 73% of total losses, with a mean loss of $24,655/patient. The mean net loss in the high-risk elective group was $3590/patient, and a net gain of $1132/patient was noted in the low-risk elective group. Length of stay outliers, defined as length of stay greater than 28 days, contributed to the bulk of the losses in the elective series and were predominant in the high-risk group. No preoperative comorbidity, other than high-risk classification, predicted outlier status. Length of stay correlated with total standard costs in all categories of aneurysm repair. Third party payment for length of stay outliers was inadequate; the diagnosis related group system warrants revision so that outlier reimbursement will be based on a tiered system derived from length of stay. 
Lateral parascapular extrapleural approach to the upper thoracic spine. The upper thoracic vertebrae are difficult to approach surgically because of the narrowing of the thoracic inlet, the proximity of the brachial plexus, and the parascapular shoulder musculature. A novel lateral parascapular extrapleural approach to the upper thoracic vertebrae is described. The parascapular shoulder musculature (trapezius, levator scapulae, and rhomboid muscles) is reflected off the spinous processes to the scapula as a musculocutaneous flap, preserving the neurovascular supply. The paraspinal musculature is mobilized and retracted, and the upper dorsal ribs are removed with caution to avoid injury to the C-8 and T-1 nerve roots. The rami communicantes are transected, and the sympathetic chain is displaced anterolaterally. The T2-4 vertebrae can be approached unobstructed. The T-1 nerve root obstructs posterolateral access to the T-1 vertebra, necessitating an inferolateral approach underneath the T-1 nerve root axilla. Four patients with compressive myelopathy from upper thoracic vertebral metastases underwent neural decompression, vertebral reconstruction, and posterior spinal fixation with this approach. Their postoperative neurological status was either unchanged or improved. Complications included radiographic pleural effusion and superficial wound dehiscence; one patient required posterior spinal reinstrumentation for progressive kyphosis. One patient developed pneumonia 7 days postoperatively which was unresponsive to appropriate treatment. It is believed that the anatomical limitations to this region have been overcome, and that excellent exposure of the T1-4 vertebrae for neural decompression and vertebral reconstruction can be performed safely. A major advantage is that posterior spinal fixation can be carried out simultaneously. 
Wound complications after modified radical mastectomy compared with tylectomy with axillary lymph node dissection. Tylectomy with axillary lymph node dissection and radiotherapy (TAD) has become an accepted treatment for early breast cancer and has been shown to result in equal 5- and 8-year survival when compared with modified radical mastectomy (MRM). In order to determine the safety of TAD with respect to wound complications and to identify potential risk factors, we reviewed the charts of 560 patients undergoing MRM (n = 387) and TAD (n = 173) at Virginia Mason Medical Center from 1983 through 1989. The incidence of infection, seroma, hematoma, and epidermolysis were compared, and obesity, age 60 years or older, smoking, antibiotics, and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors. There were more wound complications in the MRM group versus the TAD group (49% versus 35%; p less than 0.01), specifically more seromas (29% versus 18%; p less than 0.01) and epidermolysis (18% versus 0%). In the MRM group, age 60 years or older was associated with seroma (p less than 0.01) and smoking was associated with epidermolysis (p less than 0.01). In the TAD group, obesity was associated with infection. In both groups, volume of drainage from closed suction wound drains greater than 30 mL in the 24 hours prior to removal of the last drain was associated with seroma (p less than 0.05). 
The NACI Registry: an instrument for the evaluation of new approaches to coronary intervention. The NACI Investigators. The New Approaches to Coronary Intervention (NACI) Registry was developed to collect in-depth data about patients whose coronary artery lesions are being treated with new interventional techniques such as atherectomy, stents, and laser devices. The NACI Registry database distinguishes among several possible "modes" for device use, such as preparatory, planned definitive, and bailout use. Common definitions are used for data collection across all devices, and device-specific forms are used to record procedural details. NACI's unique modular form design facilitates thorough data collection, even for the most complex treatment scenarios. The database structure allows for data analysis at the patient, procedure, lesion, and device levels, as required to perform in-depth analyses of the immediate and long-term success of new devices. Once adequate knowledge of basic device performance has been collected, the Registry structure can also allow expeditious planning and performance of randomized trials comparing a new device to conventional PTCA. 
Transgenic oncogene mice. Tumor phenotype predicts genotype. The hypothesis that oncogenes influence tumor phenotype was tested by examining slides from 607 mammary tumors from 407 transgenic mice bearing the ras, myc, and/or neu oncogenes. Most tumors (91%) had patterns (phenotypes) that could not be classified by Dunn's standard nomenclature. The nonstandard tumors were described as eosinophilic small cell (SC), basophilic large cell (LC), or pale intermediate cell (IC). The SC tumor was associated with ras, the LC was associated with myc, and the IC was associated with neu, with specificities more than .90 and sensitivities ranging from .99 to .48. Thus, the tumor phenotype could be used to predict which oncogene was present in the animal. The presence of myc in combination with either ras or neu resulted in the predominance of LC tumors and accelerated tumorigenesis. The combination of ras and neu resulted in a decreased tumor incidence. Thus, knowledge of the oncogenes that were present could be used to predict the natural history of the disease. 
Primary squamous cell carcinoma of the terminal ileum. A case of squamous cell carcinoma of the terminal ileum with no underlying duplication or inflammatory disorder is described. The neoplasm seemed to have originated from the surface epithelium, invading the wall and metastasising to the regional lymph nodes. The 65 year old patient was free of disease three years after having had the tumour removed. Previous reports of squamous carcinoma of the small intestine have been associated with intestinal duplication or metastatic disease from distant sites. 
Induction of hemoglobin synthesis by downregulation of MYB protein with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide. Reduced expression of the proto-oncogene c-myb appears necessary for erythroid differentiation induced by chemical agents and by the natural regulator, erythropoietin (Epo). Treatment of Epo-responsive Rauscher erythroleukemia cells with an anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotide to c-myb in the absence of other inducers downregulated myb protein markedly and caused hemoglobinization of the cells within 48 hours. Epo treatment, which downregulates c-myb in these cells, induced hemoglobinization to the same degree. Epo also induced the appearance of anion transport protein on the plasma membrane, consistent with terminal differentiation. In contrast, antisense c-myb did not induce this erythroid marker. The results are consistent with a role for myb protein in the regulation of hemoglobin synthesis. 
Heterozygous protein C deficiency associated with multiple congenital hemangiomas--a case report. Congenital protein C deficiency is described as associated with recurrent thrombotic manifestations. The proband, a fourteen-year-old female, has a history of severe and frequent thrombotic disease, moreover, she presents congenital multiple hemangiomas. Family history was positive for protein C deficiency since the mother of the proposita is also affected and has manifested deep venous thrombophlebitis. Two additional relatives on the maternal side were not available for study but were reported to be symptomatic. None of the family members presented angiomatosis. This case report represents the first description of the association of protein C deficiency with multiple hemangiomas. 
Intratracheal injection of endotoxin and cytokines. II. Interleukin-6 and transforming growth factor beta inhibit acute inflammation. The nature of the endogenous mediators that down-regulate and curtail the exodus of neutrophils into local acute inflammatory sites is unknown. In the present report, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta), members of a family of macrophage-derived proteins known as cytokines, are shown to inhibit significantly the acute neutrophilic exodus caused by an intratracheal injection of endotoxin (LPS), a proinflammatory component of the cell walls of gram-negative bacteria. Transforming growth factor beta (10 micrograms) and IL-6 (10 micrograms) coinjected intratracheally with LPS (10 micrograms) each inhibited the number of neutrophils in 6-hour bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens by approximately 50%. The intratracheal coinjection of IL-6, TGF beta, and LPS inhibited the LPS-induced neutrophilic inflammatory exodus by nearly 75%. Interleukin-6 also is shown to be endogenously upregulated within the lung after intratracheal challenge with endotoxin, providing evidence that IL-6 may represent an endogenous negative feedback mechanism to inhibit endotoxin-initiated cytokine-mediated acute inflammation. Interleukin-6 and TGF beta both strongly inhibited the quantity of TNF-alpha recovered in the BAL fluid of LPS-challenged rats, suggesting that downregulation of LPS-induced TNF-alpha production within the lung represents one mechanism whereby IL-6 and TGF beta exert an antiinflammatory action. Interleukin-6 and TGF beta represent novel pharmacologic and, probably, endogenous inhibitors of acute inflammation. 
Multiple pilomatricomas and myotonic dystrophy. Multiple pilomatricomas are rare. However, among patients with myotonic dystrophy, the occurrence is higher. The authors report a patient, to their knowledge the 11th case of multiple pilomatricomas associated with myotonic dystrophy, to emphasize that these tumors may be associated with the disease. 
Problems encountered in leg shortening. We reviewed 46 leg-shortening operations (37 femoral and nine tibial), performed by different methods, to assess the incidence of complications and permanent disability. Shortening of as much as 7.5 cm in the femur and 5 cm in the tibia was achieved in men of normal height without any loss of function. Complications were seen with all surgical techniques despite the use of modern implants. Most problems arose from inadequate stabilisation of the osteotomy. The most reliable method of femoral shortening was open subtrochanteric osteotomy with preservation of the isthmus, and fixation with an intramedullary nail locked at its proximal end. In tibial shortening, bone excision should be at the level of the flare in the lower diaphysis in order to achieve reliable bone healing. Simple intramedullary nail fixation should be supplemented with a long-leg cast for six weeks or the nail should be locked at both ends to prevent postoperative distraction or rotation. 
Estrogen and progesterone receptors in lymphangioleiomyomatosis, epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, and sclerosing hemangioma of the lung. The therapeutic options in the treatment of lung neoplasia usually have not included hormonal therapy, unlike those for primary tumors of other sites (e.g., breast). However, two mesenchymal proliferations of lung, lymphangioleiomyomatosis and epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EHE), and one epithelial tumor, sclerosing hemangioma (SH), have a significant female predilection and may benefit from such hormonal therapy. The authors investigated five cases each of EHE and lymphangioleiomyomatosis and four cases of SH for expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors and 17-beta estradiol in paraffin-embedded tissue. Only one case each of lymphangioleiomyomatosis and EHE expressed 17-beta estradiol. All of the other cases were negative. These findings are contrary to the viewpoint held in published literature, especially in case reports of lymphangioleiomyomatosis, describing patients with positive estrogen and progesterone receptor results. Consequently, a number of issues must be considered in the clinical and immunohistochemical evaluation of the estrogen and progesterone receptor status of these rare pulmonary neoplasms. 
Stapes surgery: complications and airway infection. From a group of 1,111 patients who had stapedectomy or stapedotomy performed in a 10-year period, a thorough investigation was made of 11 patients who had a total hearing loss and 8 patients who developed a partial sensorineural hearing loss after operation. The data obtained indicate that postoperative infection with influenza virus may be responsible for unexpected complications following stapedectomy. A close relation was found between the appearance of complications and periods of epidemics of influenza. 
Surgical management of perilymph fistulas. A new technique. A wide range of recurrence rates (21% to 47%) for perilymph fistula repairs have been reported in the otology literature. An improved surgical technique developed at the Portland (Ore) Good Samaritan Hospital and Medical Center Neurotology Department was used to repair perilymph fistulas in 58 patients from October 1986 to October 1988. Our recurrence rate was reduced from 27% in a 1982-1985 study to 8% in our study. At 1 year postoperatively, improvements in disequillibrium, dizziness, and vertigo were comparable with results of older surgical techniques. Functional outcomes were also good: 83% of patients returned to normal activities of daily living, and 71% also returned to school or resumed gainful employment outside the home. 
Serum testosterone:dihydrotestosterone ratio and CA 19-9 in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. The testosterone:dihydrotestosterone ratio (T:DHT) and the antigenic marker CA 19-9 were studied in the serum of 21 male patients with pancreatic cancer and 62 controls with other gastrointestinal malignancies or benign pancreatobiliary disease. Specificity of the T:DHT ratio was 98%, significantly better than the specificity of CA 19-9 at both a 37 U/ml cutoff level (61%) and at 100 U/ml (79%). Sensitivity of the T:DHT ratio was 67%, and that of CA 19-9, 71% and 90% at the upper and lower cutoff levels, respectively. False-negative results of the T:DHT ratio were found predominantly in cases of advanced pancreatic cancer, whereas all four stage I patients had an abnormal (less than 5) T:DHT ratio. These results suggest that the T:DHT ratio is a useful marker for pancreatic cancer in males. It can be used alone or in combination with CA 19-9, and should be further evaluated in the differential diagnosis of patients with the early stages of this disease. 
Unsuspected sphincter damage following childbirth revealed by anal endosonography. Anal endosonography was performed in 62 consecutive patients with incontinence of flatus or faeces following obstetric trauma, and in 18 parous controls. Of the incontinent group, 90% had defects in the external sphincter, 65% in the internal sphincter and 44% disruption of the perineal body, compared with none of the controls. This triad of lesions is pathognomonic of obstetric trauma. Anal endosonography revealed a higher prevalence of sphincter damage than expected from anorectal physiology tests, and therefore has a role in screening patients following complicated or difficult deliveries. 
Tuberculosis diagnosed at death in the United States. From 1985 through 1988, 5.1 percent of TB cases reported in the United States were diagnosed at death. Differences in the proportions diagnosed at death by race/ethnicity, sex, and place of birth (United States vs foreign-born) were relatively small. The proportion of cases diagnosed at death increased with age, from 0.7 percent in patients less than 5 years old to 18.6 percent among patients 85 years and older. Only 26.0 percent of cases diagnosed alive were among those 65 years and older, but 60.3 percent of those diagnosed at death were in this age group. Eighteen percent of cases with miliary, meningeal and peritoneal TB were diagnosed at death, compared with 4.8 percent among those with pulmonary TB. These data indicate that TB too often remains unrecognized and that, to prevent continuing deaths from this curable disease, a high index of suspicion of TB remains important, particularly among the elderly and among persons with extrapulmonary sites of disease. 
Potential for mosquito transmission of attenuated strains of Rift Valley fever virus. Studies were conducted to determine if two attenuated strains of Rift Valley fever (RVF) virus could be transmitted by Culex pipiens mosquitoes. Both strains (RVF MP 12 and T1) replicated in and were transmitted by female Cx. pipiens after intrathoracic inoculation. Mosquitoes also became infected with and transmitted the RVF MP12 strain after ingesting virus from a blood-soaked cotton pledget. However, because of the low viremias produced in infected animals, it is unlikely that mosquitoes would become infected by feeding on an animal inoculated with either of these viruses. Although both strains were transmitted by mosquitoes after intrathoracic inoculation, there was no evidence of reversion to a virulent virus. 
Fungal sinusitis in immunocompromised children with neoplasms. This paper reviews the treatment and diagnosis of immunocompromised patients with fungal sinusitis at St Jude Children's Research Hospital. Sinusitis of all types was found to be more common in patients with hematopoietic neoplasms than in patients with solid tumors; 42% of patients with leukemia had abnormal sinus radiographs. Eight cases of pathologically proven fungal sinusitis were identified. All patients were undergoing chemotherapy for either acute myeloblastic leukemia or acute lymphoblastic leukemia and had neutrophil counts less than 100 cells/mm3. The most common findings were fever, facial pain, and abnormal sinus radiographs. Surveillance cultures of the upper aerodigestive system did not reliably predict sinus pathogens. An aggressive treatment approach consisting of early administration of amphotericin B (intravenously and via catheter irrigations of the sinuses) and surgical drainage is advocated. There was an 80% survival rate in patients in remission who were undergoing maintenance chemotherapy. All patients undergoing chemotherapy for relapse died. 
Evolving experience with thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair at a single institution. Fifty-seven patients underwent repair of atherosclerotic thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms between 1978 and 1990. Five patients had urgent surgery for rupture. The 30-day operative mortality rate for the entire group was 18% (10 patients). Before July 1987, 19 patients (group 1) were operated on by use of a technique previously described. In these earlier patients the peritoneum was routinely entered, the diaphragm was divided radially, and no heparin was given. Among patients in group 1 there was a 30-day operative mortality rate of 42% (8 patients), and morbidity included myocardial infarction 4 (21%), respiratory failure 9 (47%), renal failure 12 (63%), bleeding requiring reoperation 4 (21%), and intestinal ischemia 3 (16%). Since July 1987 a standardized approach to all elective thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms has been used in 38 patients (group 2). This method uses a left thoracoabdominal incision, circumferential division of the hemidiaphragm, retronephric totally extraperitoneal aortic exposure, single lung anesthesia, full heparinization, the graft inclusion technique, and liberal use of visceral endarterectomy. Patients in group 2 sustained a 30-day operative mortality rate of 5% (2 patients) and morbidity included myocardial infarction 2 (5%), respiratory failure 10 (26%), renal failure 11 (29%), bleeding requiring reoperation 1 (3%), paraplegia 6 (16%), and paraparesis 4 (11%). Modern surgery for repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm results in acceptably low operative mortality rates. Spinal cord ischemia remains an unresolved source of morbidity. 
Thoracic outlet syndrome caused by tumor of the first rib. We report a new case of thoracic outlet syndrome caused by a tumor of the first rib and review 11 other reports found in the literature. A 25-year-old man was admitted with thoracic outlet syndrome in the C8-T1 nerve roots. The first rib was removed through a supraclavicular approach with excision of the medial clavicle. All symptoms disappeared. On histologic examination fibrous dysplasia was found in the rib. Tumors of the first rib are uncommon and are rarely responsible for thoracic outlet syndrome. When the tumor is very large, as in our case, we recommend a supraclavicular approach associated with excision of the medial clavicle. During the liberation of the brachial plexus, great care should be exercised to avoid nerve injuries. Because malignancy of the tumor cannot be eliminated with certainty before or during the operation, wide excision of the entire rib is recommended. 
Small bowel tumours: yield of enteroscopy. A total of 258 patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding were referred for small bowel enteroscopy, a procedure which allows endoscopic evaluation of most of the small intestine. A small bowel tumour was found in 5% of patients. In 50% of patients no diagnosis could be made, but when the cause of obscure bleeding was discovered small bowel tumours were the single most common lesion in patients younger than 50 years. Small bowel tumours causing gastrointestinal bleeding may remain undetected despite extensive diagnostic evaluation. We conclude that small bowel tumours are the most common cause of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding in patients less than 50 years of age. Small bowel enteroscopy is diagnostic of small bowel tumours even when all previous diagnostic studies, including enteroclysis and angiography, are negative. 
The relationship between esophageal motility disorders and microvascular angina. Patients with unexplained chest pain have caused investigators in cardiology, gastroenterology, and psychiatry to find abnormalities with overlap among the three specialties. This article reviews the data concerning the potential interrelation of chest pain of cardiac or esophageal origin. 
Prevention of bacterial infection in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies. A randomized, multicenter trial comparing norfloxacin with ciprofloxacin. The GIMEMA Infection Program. Gruppo Italiano Malattie Ematologiche Maligne dell'Adulto. OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of norfloxacin and ciprofloxacin in preventing bacterial infection in neutropenic patients. DESIGN: A randomized, controlled, multicenter trial. SETTING: Twenty-one hematologic units in tertiary care or university hospitals. PATIENTS: Eight hundred and one consecutive, afebrile, adult patients who had hematologic malignancies or who had bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy-induced neutropenia (neutrophil count, less than 1000/mm3) expected to last more than 10 days. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive orally every 12 hours norfloxacin, 400 mg, or ciprofloxacin, 500 mg. MEASUREMENTS: Efficacy analysis was done for 619 patients: 319 treated with norfloxacin and 300 treated with ciprofloxacin. MAIN RESULTS: More patients receiving ciprofloxacin did not develop fever during neutropenia and did not receive antibiotics (34%) compared with those receiving norfloxacin (25%) (P = 0.01). Patients receiving ciprofloxacin had a lower rate of microbiologically documented infection (17% compared with 24%; P = 0.058), particularly of infection from gram-negative bacilli (4% compared with 9%; P = 0.03). The interval to the first febrile episode was also longer in patients receiving ciprofloxacin (8.3 compared with 7.2 days; P = 0.055). The rates of clinically documented infection, fever of unknown origin, and mortality as well as compliance and tolerability were similar in the two groups. Patients who had neutropenia for less than 15 days, who had severe neutropenia for less than 7 days, and who received antifungal prophylaxis benefited most from ciprofloxacin therapy. CONCLUSION: Ciprofloxacin should be used to prevent the development of infection in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies. 
Liver glutathione and cytochrome P450 activity in experimental infection: study of the relative effects of infectious stress and malnutrition. OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of infection and malnutrition on liver glutathione and cytochrome P450 (P450) in rats. DESIGN: Controlled experimental groups (12 groups). ANIMALS: Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. INTERVENTIONS: Experimental endocarditis, pyelonephritis, or peritonitis were caused. Controls included free-fed rats and sham-operated rats, pair-fed to infected animals. Infection was verified by tissue culture. Rats were killed 3 days (acute infection) or 10 days (chronic infection, except endocarditis) after the induction of infection. RESULTS: Sham rats had lower liver weights, liver/body weight, and liver glutathione values than controls. Infected rats had larger liver weights and liver/body weight ratios and liver glutathione content than shams, and larger liver/body weight ratios than controls (acute infection). Infected rats had lower P450 values than both shams and controls. CONCLUSION: The malnutrition associated with infection caused decreased liver weight and glutathione content. Infection increased the liver weight, and liver glutathione content, but caused severe reduction in liver P450. If the same finding is true in infected patients, it could have consequences for the management of such patients. 
Treatment of systemic vasculitis with pooled intravenous immunoglobulin. The therapeutic effect of a course of high-dose, pooled, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) on disease activity and circulating antineutrophil cytoplasm antibodies (ANCA) was investigated in 7 patients with systemic vasculitis. 5 had active disease despite conventional immunosuppression, and 2 had not received any treatment. All 7 had clinical improvement, which was sustained in 6 and transient in 1. The fall in ANCA concentrations to a mean of 51% of the pre-treatment values was maintained during follow-up. C-reactive protein concentration also dropped considerably. IVIg seemed to confer a useful therapeutic effect without adverse reaction. 
Malignant melanoma in transgenic mice. Ocular and cutaneous melanomas arose in new inbred lines of transgenic mice having an integrated recombinant gene comprised of the tyrosinase promoter, expressed in pigment cells, and the simian virus 40 early-region transforming sequences. The tumors were hypomelanotic and were histopathologically similar to corresponding human melanomas. Eye melanomas often originated at a young age, chiefly from the retinal pigment epithelium, also from the choroid, and rarely from the ciliary body. The eye tumors grew aggressively, were highly invasive, and metastasized to local and distant sites. The earliest formation of these tumors was associated with higher copy numbers of the transgene; mice of different single-copy lines varied greatly in age of onset and frequency of eye tumors. Coat pigmentation was reduced in almost all lines, to various extents. Primary skin melanomas arose later and less frequently than eye melanomas. Hence they were at early stages and of unknown long-range incidence in this investigation, in which autopsies covered the first half-year of life. For both ocular and cutaneous melanomas, the transgenic mice offer numerous possibilities for experimental study of mechanisms underlying formation and spread of melanomas. 
Crohn's disease associated with autoimmune neutropenia. We report a 29-year-old woman with a 20-year history of Crohn's disease and neutropenia. Because of repeated complications of Crohn's disease, she has undergone three intestinal resections and also has had recurrent skin abscesses, sinusitis, and pneumonia. Persistent neutropenia has been noted throughout the course of her disease, and antineutrophil antibodies have been detected in her serum and that of her younger brother, who also has Crohn's disease and neutropenia. We discuss autoimmune neutropenia in the context of other autoimmune manifestations of Crohn's disease and speculate as to its possible contributory role in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. 
Preferential DNA secondary structure mutagenesis in the lagging strand of replication in E. coli. When present in single-stranded DNA, palindromic or quasi-palindromic sequences have the potential to form complex secondary structures, including hairpins, which may facilitate interstrand misalignment of direct repeats and be responsible for diverse types of replication-based mutations, including deletions, additions, frameshifts and duplications. In regions of palindromic symmetry, specific deletion events may involve the formation of a hairpin or other DNA secondary structures which can stabilize the misalignment of direct repeats. One model suggests that these deletions occur during DNA replication by slippage of the template strand and misalignment with the progeny strand. The concurrent DNA replication model, involving an asymmetric dimeric DNA polymerase III complex which replicates the leading and lagging strands, has significant implications for mutagenesis. The intermittent looping of the lagging strand template, and the fact that the lagging strand template may contain a region of single-stranded DNA the length of an Okazaki fragment, provides an opportunity for DNA secondary-structure formation and misalignment. Here we report our design of a palindromic fragment to create an 'asymmetric palindromic insert' in the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene of plasmid pBR325. The frequency with which the insert was deleted in Escherichia coli depends on the orientation of the gene in the plasmid. Our results suggest that replication-dependent deletion between direct repeats may occur preferentially in the lagging strand. 
Endocrine response determines the clinical outcome of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone ovulation induction in different ovulatory disorders. To accrue systematic information in different ovulatory disorders on the precise relationship among endocrine response, clinical outcome, and the occurrence of complications, we treated 114 patients with pulsatile GnRH (2.5-5.0 micrograms, iv, every 60 min) for 187 cycles and compared them to 20 normal menstrual cycles. Thirty of these patients had primary hypogonadotropic amenorrhea (PHA; 40 cycles), 33 had other forms of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH; 55 cycles), and 51 had polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS; 92 cycles). Daily blood samples were drawn for hormone determinations. In PCOS, 50 cycles were preceded by GnRH analog suppression. PHA treatment cycles were characterized by the reestablishment of a normal endocrine pattern, almost no dose-related endocrine differences, elevated ovulatory (93%) and conception rates (23%), and no multiple pregnancies. In the HH subjects the ovulatory (91%) and pregnancy rates (31%) were high; however, while the lower GnRH dose elicited a normal endocrine pattern, the 5-micrograms dose induced excessive folliculogenesis and high estradiol levels and was associated with most of the multiple pregnancies of this study (three of four). GnRH analog suppression was successfully used to avoid recurrence of ovarian over-stimulation in two HH subjects. Finally, GnRH analog suppression in PCOS permitted normalization of the follicular phase endocrine pattern, achievement of good ovulatory (76%) and pregnancy (28%) rates, and avoidance of multiple pregnancies; however, luteal phase steroid secretion was abnormal, and the abortion rate remained elevated (43%). Obesity was associated with a reduced ovulatory rate in PCOS, but not in hypogonadotropic, subjects. Thus, we can conclude that in pulsatile GnRH ovulation induction: 1) a profound hypogonadotropic condition, whether spontaneous as in PHA or induced with GnRH analogs as in other ovulatory disorders, is associated with optimal menstrual cycle restoration, high ovulatory and conception rates, and virtually absent risks of multiple pregnancy; 2) residual hypothalamic activity in HH may be responsible for supraphysiological pituitary-ovarian stimulation and result in multiple pregnancy unless a low GnRH dose (2.5 micrograms/bolus) or GnRH analog pretreatment is employed; 3) obesity does not affect treatment outcome in hypogonadotropic patients; and 4) the high spontaneous abortion rate in PCOS may be related to corpus luteum dysfunction. 
Symptomatic talocalcaneal coalition. Its clinical significance and treatment. The clinical significance of symptomatic talocalcaneal coalition was described subjectively, objectively, and identified roentgenographically after examining 67 feet of 42 patients between 1977 and 1987. Computed tomographic examinations, conducted on 29 of 42 patients, were useful in recognizing the extent of coalition, the condition of union, and the postoperative results. Tarsal tunnel syndrome was present in 23 feet with the coalition. Thirty-one feet (24 patients) were treated conservatively and 36 feet (29 patients) surgically. Of the surgically treated feet, the coalition was excised in 33 and talocalcaneal fusion was performed in three. Follow-up examinations were performed at an average of 5.3 years (range, 2.25-11.2 years). In the excision group, the results were excellent in 24 feet, good in seven, and fair in two. The results were good in three feet treated by arthrodesis. 
Gallstone formation after rapid weight loss: a prospective study in patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery for treatment of morbid obesity. The present study evaluated the incidence of gallstone formation in 105 morbidly obese patients undergoing rapid weight loss after proximal gastric bypass surgery. Intraoperative ultrasonography demonstrated gallstones in 20 (19%) and gallbladder sludge in four (4%) patients. Eighty-one patients had a normal gallbladder ultrasound. After bariatric surgery, these patients were followed prospectively with periodic gallbladder ultrasound examinations. At 6 months, gallstones had developed in 36% and gallbladder sludge in 13% of patients. These percentages remained relatively constant at 12 and 18 months. Body weight declined rapidly after surgery from a mean of 132.3 kg to 95.5, 87.0, and 84.0 kg at 6, 12, and 18 months, respectively. Gallstones developed significantly more often in the white race, and in women. No significant differences in age, body weight, percent ideal body weight, percent weight loss, or percent of excess body weight lost existed between patients who developed gallstones or sludge and those who did not. Patients who developed gallbladder sludge had less cholesterol and lower cholesterol saturation (1.25 +/- 0.42) in their gallbladder bile than persons who developed gallstones (2.00 +/- 0.79). Forty percent (13/32) of patients who developed gallstones became symptomatic; nine (28%) underwent elective cholecystectomy. An attempt to prevent gallstone formation during rapid weight loss appears warranted. 
HIV-1 propagates in human neuroblastoma cells. A major question in the pathogenesis of AIDS encephalopathy and dementia is whether HIV-1 directly infects cells of the central nervous system (CNS). The propagation of HIV was attempted in six cell lines: three related and three unrelated to the nervous system. HIV was able to propagate in two human neuroblastoma cell lines and a lymphocytic cell line control but did not result in infections of African green monkey kidney cells, human cervix carcinoma cells, and one human brain astrocytoma cell line. Neuroblastoma cell lines infected with HIV showed peaks of reverse transcriptase activity at 10-14 days postinfection. After prolonged growth in cell cultures, one of the neuroblastoma cell lines showed multiphasic virus production, additional high peaks of reverse transcriptase activity, 20-fold greater than the first, lasting from 36 to 74 days and 110 to 140 days postinfection. The presence of HIV was confirmed by p24 antigen capture. The neuroblastoma cell lines had weak but detectable levels of CD4 immunoreactivity by immunoperoxidase and flow immunocytometric analysis. Although no T4-specific RNA sequences were detected by hybridization of Northern blots of total and poly A-selected RNA extracted from the two neuroblastoma cell lines by using a T4 specific complimentary DNA probe, monoclonal antibodies to the CD4 receptor blocked HIV infection in both neuroblastoma cell lines. Thus, the infection of neuroblastoma cells by HIV occurs in part by a CD4-dependent mechanism. Passaging the neuroblastoma cell lines weekly and bimonthly resulted in similar cell cycle-DNA content patterns for the more permissive cell line and with significant numbers of cells in the S phase. HIV-infected neuroblastoma cell lines provide an in vitro model for the evaluation of virus-host cell interactions and may be useful in addressing the issue of the persistence of HIV in the human CNS. 
Patterns in visual interpretation of coronary arteriograms as detected by quantitative coronary arteriography. In part 1 of a three-part study, 14 novice readers and 6 experienced cardiologists interpreted phantom images of known stenosis severity. No difference between the interpretations of experienced and novice readers was detectable. Visual estimates of "moderately" severe stenosis were 30% higher than actual percent diameter stenosis. In part 2 of the study, visual interpretation of percent diameter stenosis from 212 stenoses on 241 arteriograms was compared with quantitative coronary arteriographic assessment. The visual analysis overestimated disease severity in arteries with greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis (except for right coronary lesions) and underestimated severity in all arteries with less than 50% diameter stenosis. Of the 241 arteriograms, 40 had quantitative and visual analysis of all three coronary arteries for assessment of significant disease. In only 62% of the cases did visual and quantitative methods agree on the presence of severe disease; visual estimates diagnosed significantly (p less than 0.05) more three-vessel disease. In part 3 of the study, comparison of percent diameter stenosis by visual estimate with quantitative coronary arteriographic assessment before and after balloon angioplasty of 38 stenoses showed that visual interpretation significantly (p less than 0.001) overestimated initial lesion severity and underestimated stenosis severity after angioplasty. 
Stress gastritis revisited. In current ICU populations, overt bleeding from stress gastritis occurs in 10% to 20% of patients. Bleeding rates may be reduced to about 3% in patients receiving prophylactic therapy. Although patients with bleeding have higher mortality rates than other critically ill patients, it is not clear that the mortality rate is improved with prophylactic therapy, as most patients die from their underlying disease. As new complications of prophylactic therapy are identified, better definitions of the population at risk to develop complications of stress gastritis will be necessary to select those patients who will benefit most from prophylactic therapy. 
Changing pattern of pulmonary metastases with adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with osteosarcoma: results from the multiinstitutional osteosarcoma study. The multiinstitutional osteosarcoma study (MIOS), a randomized trial of adjuvant therapy for osteosarcoma with a concurrent control group, registered 113 patients from June 1982 to August 1984. Preliminary analysis of the study indicated a significant event-free survival advantage favoring immediate adjuvant chemotherapy, (P less than .001). For patients treated with surgery alone or with surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy, the lungs were involved in more than 80% of the relapses. Patients relapsing after surgery alone tended to relapse earlier (P less than .01), had more pulmonary nodules (P less than .01), and had more frequent bilateral pulmonary involvement (P less than .01) than those treated with immediate postsurgical adjuvant chemotherapy. However, patients relapsing after treatment with surgery alone experienced a significantly longer interval to further disease progression (P less than .01) and improved survival after relapse (P = .01) when compared with patients who relapsed after treatment with immediate adjuvant chemotherapy. The only factor predictive of survival after relapse was if the patient could be made surgically disease-free after initial relapse (P = .03). 
Prediction of major cardiac events after peripheral vascular surgery using dipyridamole echocardiography. Patients undergoing peripheral vascular surgery are at increased risk of postoperative cardiac complications. To evaluate the role of dipyridamole echocardiography in predicting major cardiac events, 109 unselected patients undergoing elective peripheral vascular surgery were prospectively studied. Preoperative dipyridamole echocardiograms were interpreted by an echocardiographer unaware of all clinical data. Patients were followed up until hospital discharge by research physicians without knowledge of dipyridamole echocardiography results. Outcomes were classified using strict predefined criteria by reviewers unaware of other clinical and echocardiographic data. Of the 109 patients, 9 (8%) had positive studies defined as development of new regional wall motion abnormalities or worsening of preexistent wall motion abnormalities. Of these 9 patients, 7 had postoperative events, including 3 cardiac deaths, 1 nonfatal myocardial infarction, 2 with unstable angina, and 1 with pulmonary edema. Only 1 event occurred among the 100 patients with negative studies. The sensitivity and specificity of dipyridamole echocardiography for predicting cardiac events after vascular surgery were 88 and 98%, respectively; the positive and negative predictive values were 78 and 99%. The relative risk of having a cardiac event if dipyridamole echocardiography was abnormal was 78 (95% confidence interval, 11 to 564; p less than 0.0001). If these results are extended and confirmed by other investigators, preoperative dipyridamole echocardiography may be an important screening test for patients undergoing elective peripheral vascular surgery. 
Value of computed tomography of the lung in the management of primary spontaneous pneumothorax. The treatment of patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax remains controversial, since recurrence and the ultimate need for thoracostomy cannot be predicted. In the current study, computed tomography (CT) of the lung was performed prospectively on 26 consecutive patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax to determine whether the size and/or the number of apical blebs would correlate with recurrence and/or need for thoracostomy. Both the number of blebs and the bleb score (calculated by the number of blebs multiplied by a numeric value assigned a range of bleb sizes) of the affected lung was significantly greater in patients with a history of recurrent pneumothorax and/or ultimate need for thoracostomy as treatment. CT of the lung may be useful in predicting the natural history of pneumothorax. 
Intrahepatic recurrence after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma complicating cirrhosis. To determine whether a careful evaluation of tumor extension by preoperative computed tomography scan after intra-arterial injection of ultrafluid lipiodol and by intraoperative ultrasound examination reduced the recurrence rate of hepatocellular carcinoma after resection, a series of 47 cirrhotic patients with a single tumor operated on from 1984 was studied. Alphafetoprotein level was less than 100 ng/mL in 26 patients (55%), size of the tumor was less than 5 cm in 28 patients (59%), and capsule was present in 30 patients (63%). The resection was performed with free margin measuring 1 cm or more. The overall cumulative survival rates at 3 and 5 years were 35% and 17%, respectively. Intrahepatic recurrence was observed in 28 patients (60%), located less than 2 cm from the resection margin in only four patients. The cumulative intrahepatic recurrence rate at 3 years was 81% and was significantly higher in patients with tumor greater than or equal to 5 cm and in patients with preoperative alphafetoprotein level of greater than or equal to 100 ng/mL. In this series the cumulative intrahepatic recurrence rate at 5 years was 100%. This high recurrence rate after resection, even with careful evaluation of tumor extension, indicates that liver transplantation might be envisaged for the treatment of cirrhotic patients with resectable hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Preclinical Parkinson's disease: detection of motor and nonmotor manifestations. The advent of possible protective therapies for Parkinson's disease has created a need for methods of diagnosing the disease before the clinical features become fully evident. As a number of motor and nonmotor manifestations of the disease emerge months to years before a diagnosis can be made, a battery of clinical tests might be sufficient to identify individuals at an earlier stage than is currently possible using the standard history and physical examination. A list of questions regarding possible risk factors, specific symptoms, and observations of family members could be combined in a self-administered questionnaire that might identify individuals with a high probability of early, but otherwise undiagnosable, Parkinson's disease. Identification of subtle motor features is another possible screening method. For example, handwriting and speech are commonly affected prior to diagnosis; thus, automated analysis of these motor actions might also provide detection of incipient disease. 
Heart rate variability in patients with ventricular arrhythmias: effect of antiarrhythmic drugs. Antiarrhythmic Drug Evaluation Group (ADEG). The purpose of this study was to investigate whether heart rate variability could be reliably assessed in patients with ventricular arrhythmias and to evaluate whether it is affected by antiarrhythmic drugs. The study was based on an analysis of 239 ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) recordings obtained from 67 patients with frequent and complex ventricular arrhythmias enrolled in the Antiarrhythmic Drug Evaluation Group (ADEG) study. In each recording, after exclusion of premature ventricular complexes, the number of times during a 24 h period in which two consecutive sinus RR intervals differed by more than 50 ms was calculated. The total 24 h count from each recording was then used as an index of heart rate variability. This method is a reliable marker of cardiac parasympathetic activity. Recordings were analyzed at baseline (n = 56), during long-term treatment with amiodarone (n = 17), flecainide (n = 22) or propafenone (n = 17) and after washout in selected patients (n = 5). Despite the presence of a different number of arrhythmias, total 24 h counts in the same patient appeared reproducible over time (r = 0.83 between two different recordings, n = 49, p less than 0.0001). Baseline counts (median 1,698, range 26 to 13,648) were not correlated (r = 0.15) with the number of arrhythmias. The three antiarrhythmic drugs had a disparate effect on total 24 h counts: no change was observed in patients treated with amiodarone (median percent change [delta %]-8, p = NS), whereas a significant (p less than 0.025) decrease occurred in patients treated with flecainide (median delta % -56%) or propafenone (median delta % -64%). 
Blood transfusion and survival after laryngectomy for laryngeal carcinoma. Survival of patients with surgically treated malignancy may be adversely affected by blood transfusion. Immune suppression due to transfusion has been implicated but remains unproven. We conducted a study of 240 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx undergoing laryngectomy to assess the effect of per-operative blood transfusion on survival. 
Inclusion body myositis with cricopharyngeus muscle involvement and severe dysphagia. A patient with inclusion body myositis (IBM) is presented. Unusual aspects of this case include a myopathy of 36 years duration, severe dysphagia due to cricopharyngeus muscle dysfunction, improvement with cricopharyngeus myotomy, and a diagnostic cricopharyngeus muscle biopsy. 
Apnoea, bradycardia, and oxygen saturation in preterm infants. To analyse the effects of apnoea and bradycardia on the oxygen saturation (SaO2) of preterm infants and to make recommendations for apnoea alarm limits, polygraphic recordings were made on 89 occasions of 27 preterm infants; 1029 apnoeic episodes were analysed. Reduction in SaO2 was positively correlated with duration of apnoea, but the scatter of results was such that reductions in SaO2 of up to 40% occurred with apnoeas of less than 10 seconds duration. The median initial SaO2 was significantly lower in those episodes that resulted in bradycardia (92% compared with 95%), and there was also a significantly greater reduction in median SaO2 (9% compared with 5%). This study illustrates the difficulty of setting alarm limits for the detection of apnoea. We suggest that rather than simply detecting apnoea it is more appropriate to monitor heart rate and SaO2 in infants with recurrent apnoea. 
Visual field changes following hepatic transplantation in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis. A case of severe visual field restriction complicating primary biliary cirrhosis is described. The clinical features demonstrated vitamin A deficiency which did not respond to oral supplements of vitamin A. Hepatic transplantation restored the visual fields to near normal. 
Repeat infusion of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in patients with acute myocardial infarction and early recurrent myocardial ischemia. When conventional treatment of patients with early clinical reinfarction after thrombolytic therapy fails, mechanical revascularization may be attempted. An alternative strategy, repeat thrombolytic infusions, is reported. Fifty-two patients with acute myocardial infarction were treated with one or two additional thrombolytic infusions of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) because of nonsustained ischemia after initial treatment with rt-PA or streptokinase. Thirty-five patients received the second infusion within 1 h of the first; 13 patients received the second infusion 1 to 72 h after the first and 4 patients received it later during their hospitalization. Bleeding complications occurred in 10 patients (19%); however, most of these were minor (no intracranial bleeding) and only 2 patients required blood transfusion. In 14 patients in whom the decrease in fibrinogen and plasminogen levels was measured after the first and second infusions, this decrease was only 25% and 63%, respectively--only slightly higher than the 22% and 53% decreases measured in 63 patients who had only one rt-PA infusion. In 44 patients (85%), the acute ischemia resolved completely within 1 h after initiation of the second infusion. In 23 patients (44%), pain and ST segment elevation did not recur and invasive coronary intervention was avoided. Thus, repeat rt-PA infusions can stabilize a substantial number of patients with acute reinfarction and, even when relief is temporary, repeat rt-PA infusions can minimize myocardial damage while patients await mechanical revascularization. 
Aortic sepsis: is there a role for in situ graft reconstruction? Conventional extraanatomic reconstruction for aortic sepsis is associated with a significant risk of operative death, as well as frequent late complications. We evaluated in situ aortic grafting in the treatment of primary or graft-related aortic infection. Eleven selected patients underwent in situ aortic graft reconstruction in the setting of mycotic aneurysm (n = 5), secondarily infected aortic aneurysm (n = 1), primary aortoenteric fistula (n = 1), and secondary aortoenteric fistula (n = 4). All patients survived: follow-up from 10 to 130 months reveals no evidence for graft thrombosis, pseudoaneurysm, new or recurrent aortoenteric fistula, or subsequent aortic operations in any patient. A literature review produced 110 cases of aortic sepsis managed by in situ aortic reconstruction during the last decade. Thirty-two patients (29%) either died in the operative period or suffered a lethal late complication associated with their aortic reconstruction. This mortality rate declined to 21% if patients undergoing incomplete removal of a contaminated graft were excluded, and to 19% with the addition of our 11 patients. Both our experience and that described in the literature suggest that, in properly-selected patients, in situ aortic graft replacement may be a rational treatment option for localized or circumscribed aortic sepsis. 
Cardiac tamponade early after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction: a rare but not reported hemorrhagic complication. Among 392 consecutive patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction and treated with thrombolytic drugs, 4 patients (1%) developed an early hemorrhagic pericardial effusion (without ventricular wall rupture) evolving within 24 h to cardiogenic shock consequent to cardiac tamponade. They all suffered from a large anterior myocardial infarction treated within 4 h after onset of symptoms with intravenous anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (one case), recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (two cases) or streptokinase (one case), anticoagulation with heparin (all cases) and aspirin (three cases). As soon as pericardial effusion was established by echocardiography, emergency percutaneous pericardiocentesis was performed at the bedside 20 +/- 6 h after thrombolytic therapy was started. This corrected immediately the clinical and hemodynamic status of each patient and a catheter was left in the pericardial space for 34 +/- 18 h. Thus, in the presence of unexplained clinical and hemodynamic deterioration occurring during the first 24 h after thrombolytic treatment of a large myocardial infarction, cardiac tamponade should be suspected. Immediate percutaneous pericardiocentesis followed by continuous drainage is a simple and definitive treatment for this complication. 
The GTPase superfamily: a conserved switch for diverse cell functions. Proteins that bind and hydrolyse GTP are being discovered at a rapidly increasing rate. Each of these many GTPases acts as a molecular switch whose 'on' and 'off' states are triggered by binding and hydrolysis of GTP. Conserved structure and mechanism in myriad versions of the switch--in bacteria, yeast, flies and vertebrates--suggest that all derive from a single primordial protein, repeatedly modified in the course of evolution to perform a dazzling variety of functions. 
Cavernosometry: methodology and reproducibility with and without pharmacological agents in the evaluation of venous impotence. Venous impotence can be evaluated by cavernosometry, although this is a controversial issue. We have evaluated various techniques for cavernosometry: with and without intracavernous papaverine, with different dosages and modalities, with different modes of induction flow and at various intracavernous pressures. A standardised technique was tested and retested in 32 impotent men. If pharmacocavernosometry is accepted as the most reliable test and a maintenance flow less than 20 ml/min indicates optimal venous occlusion, plain cavernosometry gave 6% false positive and 16% false negative results. Pharmacocavernosometry was found to be highly reproducible with regard to maintenance flow for patients thought to have optimal venous occlusion and for those with supposed leakage. The induction flow was of no diagnostic value. After injection of papaverine the maintenance flow became a reproducible parameter for quantifying venous outflow and could be measured with an intracavernous pressure equivalent to systolic blood pressure to minimise cavernous arterial inflow and increase reproducibility. 
Immediate postoperative aspirin improves vein graft patency early and late after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. A placebo-controlled, randomized study. BACKGROUND. The efficacy of aspirin for prevention of thrombotic graft occlusion after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) depends both on the dosage and time window of administration. Early and late graft patency were therefore assessed in a prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of aspirin, 324 mg daily, given within 1 hour of CABG. METHODS AND RESULTS. Angiographic graft patency was determined at 1 week (231 patients) and 1 year (219 patients) after CABG. The early vein graft occlusion rate was 1.6% on aspirin and 6.2% on placebo (p = 0.004), and late graft occlusion rate was 5.8% on continued aspirin and 11.6% on placebo (p = 0.01). New graft occlusion between 1 week and 1 year was less common in patients on aspirin than on placebo (4.3% versus 7.4%, p = 0.013). The protective effect of aspirin against occlusion persisted in most subgroups of graft type, graft flow, diameter of recipient artery, location of grafted artery, and endarterectomy. Mean chest tube blood loss for the first 24 hours was 571 ml for the aspirin group and 563 ml for the placebo group. Red cell transfusion requirements were 902 ml in the aspirin group and 934 ml in the placebo group (p = NS). The reoperation rate was 4.8% in the aspirin group and 1% in the placebo group (p = 0.1). CONCLUSIONS. Immediate postoperative administration of aspirin (324 mg) improves early graft patency and, with continued usage, protects against further occlusion up to 1 year after CABG. Postoperative blood loss was similar in the two groups; however, aspirin was associated with a nonsignificant higher rate of reoperation. 
An autopsy study of the incidence of lacunes in relation to age, hypertension, and arteriosclerosis. We investigated selected features of lacunes in 1,086 necropsy cases. Lacunes were found in brains from patients above the age of 40 years and were most common in brains from persons in their sixties but decreased in number in brains from older persons. The most common site of lacunes was the frontal lobe white matter, followed by the putamen, pons, parietal lobe white matter, thalamus, and caudate nucleus in descending order of frequency. By dividing the 1,086 cases into three groups according to blood pressure, we found more lacunes in the hypertensive and borderline hypertensive groups than in the normotensive group; the average number of lacunes per brain in each group was 3.61, 2.77, and 1.15, respectively. Diastolic hypertension was more closely related to the number of lacunes than was systolic hypertension. The extent of arteriolosclerosis of the medullary arteries in the frontal lobe white matter was measured and compared with the number of lacunes. There was a close correlation between lacunes and arterioloslerosis in all age groups. 
Gonadotropin-secreting pineal teratoma causing precocious puberty. A case of precocious puberty in a 7-year-old boy with a tumor of the pineal region is reported. Human chorionic gonadotropin levels were elevated in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid. Endocrinological evaluation of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis demonstrated a normal prepubertal response. The tumor was resected and proved to be an immature teratoma. Human chorionic gonadotropin levels were markedly elevated in the tumor cyst fluid. Sexual precocity regressed and human chorionic gonadotropin levels in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid fell to normal after surgery, suggesting that the precocious puberty was secondary to ectopic human chorionic gonadotropin production by the pineal teratoma. 
Paroxysmal tremor and orofacial dyskinesia secondary to a biopterin synthesis defect. We report a child with a systemic biopterin synthesis defect due to an absence of 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase who had an unusual presentation, with three episodes of coarse "rubral-like" tremor in arms and legs orofacial dyskinesia between the ages of 3 and 6 months. Response to levodopa therapy and CSF neurotransmitter metabolite concentrations before and after therapy suggests that his clinical syndrome resulted from a secondary dopamine deficiency. 
Stenoses of vascular anastomoses after hepatic transplantation: treatment with balloon angioplasty. Vascular complications after liver transplantation include occlusion or stenosis at the sites of anastomosis in the hepatic artery, portal vein, and vena cava. From our experience with more than 600 liver transplants, vascular stenoses have been identified in 10 patients and treated by balloon angioplasty in nine. Three patients with hepatic artery stenosis and deteriorating graft function were treated by balloon angioplasty with a coaxial technique. A specially designed catheter facilitated a successful femoral artery approach. Portal vein stenoses in three patients resulted in portal hypertension. These were treated by balloon dilatation via transhepatic catheterization of the portal vein. Stenoses of the suprahepatic caval anastomosis were dilated in three patients with severe lower limb edema. Technical success was achieved in all three cases of hepatic artery stenosis with improvement in graft function. Recurrent stenoses in two patients were successfully treated with repeated dilatations. Portal hypertension resolved in two of three patients after portal venoplasty. Dilatation of a caval stenosis resulted in the resolution of leg edema in all three cases. Repeated dilatation was required in one case. No reduction in the portal venous pressure gradient occurred after venoplasty in one case, and an ultimately fatal caval thrombosis developed in one patient with caval stenosis before venoplasty could be performed. Our experience suggests that balloon angioplasty of arterial and venous stenoses complicating hepatic transplantation carries little risk and is a useful procedure for the treatment of these problems. 
Superior vena caval obstruction in patients with gut failure receiving home parenteral nutrition. Clinical suspicion and venographic conformation were used to diagnose 15 cases of superior vena caval obstruction (SVCO) in 107 home parenteral nutrition (HPN) patients over 379 cumulative years of HPN (3.9 cases/100 patient-years). Patients with SVCO had been on HPN a mean of 51.5 months and had used 6.2 (range 1-50) central catheters, including short- and long-term, before SVCO was diagnosed. The frequency of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with SVCO was approximately the same as that in our general HPN population. Positive blood cultures were present immediately preceding the diagnosis of SVCO in 40% (six of 15) of cases. Atypical line placements were noted in two cases. The most common management strategies employed were conversion to enteral feedings in five patients and placement of a new catheter directly into the right atrium by thoracotomy in another five patients. Two of the five with right atrial catheters experienced a postpericardiotomy syndrome (fever, pericardial rub, and pulmonary infiltrates) that responded promptly to indomethacin. The most significant long-term sequela of SVCO was the need for a left jugular vein to right atrial appendage bypass in one patient with chronic venous congestion from her SVCO. Once the SVCO is confirmed, systemic heparinization provides immediate antithrombotic effect and minimizes the risk of pulmonary embolism. The use of streptokinase may result in rapid thrombolysis. 
The spectrum of vertical gaze palsy following unilateral brainstem stroke. A single unilateral lesion, near the midline, may interrupt the pathways involved in vertical gaze just before and after they decussate, inducing an anatomically unilateral, but functionally bilateral, lesion. We report 11 patients with supranuclear vertical gaze palsies (two with conjugate upgaze palsy, four with combined up- and downgaze palsies, two with monocular elevation palsy, and three with vertical "one-and-a-half" syndrome) due to unilateral midbrain strokes. 
Lung asbestos fiber content and mesothelioma cell type, site, and survival. All ascertainable cases of malignant mesothelioma in Australia were notified to a national surveillance program in the period January 1, 1980 to December 31, 1985. There were 854 cases obtained and 823 confirmed on clinical (77) or histologic (746) ground. Tumor site was known in 759 cases (685 pleural and 74 peritoneal). Lung fiber content analyses by light microscopy and analytic transmission electron microscopy with energy-dispersive x-ray analysis were done on 226 cases in which postmortem material was available, using the method of Rogers. Cell type was determined by a five-member expert panel of pathologists appointed by the Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. There was a statistically significant trend between lung fiber content (fibers/g dry lung) and cell type from epithelial (low fiber content) through mixed to sarcomatous (high fiber content). This trend was most apparent for total uncoated fibers (chi-square = 6.8, df = 1, P less than 0.01) and crocidolite (chi-square = 6.7, df = 1, P less than 0.01). Lung fiber content also was associated with tumor site; higher lung fiber content being associated with peritoneal tumors. This relationship was significant for all fiber content measures except chrysotile and was independent of the fiber content-cell type relationship (log-linear analysis). Survival from time of provisional diagnosis was significantly longer for epithelial (mean, 13 months; standard deviation [SD], 12.8) and mixed (mean, 10.2 months; SD, 8.7) types than sarcomatous cell types (mean, 5.8 months; SD, 6.5; P less than 0.0001, by analysis of variance on log10 survival time). Survival time was significantly greater for pleural tumors (mean, 11.4 months; SD, 13.4) than peritoneal tumors (mean, 8.6 months; SD, 12.5) (P less than 0.005, by Student's t test on log10 survival time). 
Rates of vertebral bone loss before and after liver transplantation in women with primary biliary cirrhosis. Atraumatic fractures caused by osteoporosis may be a serious complication of primary biliary cirrhosis. Mean (+/- S.D.) bone mineral density in the lumbar spine in 210 ambulatory women with primary biliary cirrhosis was 1.02 +/- 0.19 gm/cm2, 7% lower than that in 139 age-matched normal women (after adjustment for age and body weight) (p less than 0.001). Bone mineral density in the lumbar spine was inversely related to a risk score index of liver disease severity (r = -0.29, p less than 0.001). The mean rate of bone loss in 105 of these 210 women was 2%/yr +/- 4%/yr, twice as great as in the 139 normal women (p less than 0.02). In 20 women with primary biliary cirrhosis followed up after orthotopic liver transplantation, bone mineral density in the lumbar spine decreased at 3 mo (p less than 0.01), and this decrease may have resulted in atraumatic fractures in 13 of them. Bone mineral density in the lumbar spine then increased (p less than 0.01) so that by 12 mo the median bone mineral density in the lumbar spine was similar to that before transplantation and by 24 mo it was 5% above it. Therefore we conclude that the progressive bone loss observed in primary biliary cirrhosis (which is further accentuated immediately after transplantation) may be halted, and the bone mass may be restored toward normal within 2 to 3 yr after orthotopic liver transplantation. 
Association of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis in carcinoma of the breast with infiltrating lobular carcinoma. An autopsy study. We analyzed the autopsy records of 261 patients with breast carcinoma, who died at The Institute of Oncology, Ljubljana, Yugoslavia, for the presence of metastases to the central nervous system, particularly for the presence of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. Metastases to the central nervous system were found in 41 (18.1%) of 226 patients who had metastatic cancer. In 24 cases (10.6%), metastases were seen in brain parenchyma; in 11 cases (4.9%), only dura mater was involved, and in six cases (2.6%), leptomeningeal carcinomatosis was found. All patients with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis showed some symptoms of central nervous system involvement while alive. The patients died between 2 weeks and 2 months after the onset of central nervous system symptoms. Four of six patients with such a complication presented with locally advanced or disseminated carcinoma on the first admission. With regard to histologic findings, three patients had infiltrating lobular carcinoma, two had infiltrating ductal carcinoma, and one had mixed infiltrating lobular and ductal carcinoma, with a metastasizing lobular component. Metastases to the brain parenchyma were found exclusively in infiltrating ductal carcinoma. We stress that infiltrating lobular carcinoma represents a distinctive type of breast cancer with an unusual propensity to disseminate into leptomeninges, as this occurred in almost 14% of all cases of infiltrating lobular carcinoma in our series in contrast to a 1% incidence in cases of infiltrating ductal carcinoma. 
Primary anetoderma associated with a wide spectrum of autoimmune abnormalities. Although the underlying pathologic mechanisms of primary anetoderma have not yet been identified, data suggest the participation of an immunologic mechanism in some cases. In a woman with clinical and histopathologic features of primary anetoderma (Jadassohn-Pellizzari type) of 30 years' duration, laboratory investigation disclosed positive antinuclear factor, hypocomplementemia, hypergammaglobulinemia, granular deposits of immunoreactants along the dermoepidermal junction, and fibrillar deposits in the papillary dermis. In addition, she was found to have autoimmune hemolysis and circulating lupus anticoagulant associated with recurrent deep-vein thrombosis and a history of Graves' disease (starting 5 years after onset of primary anetoderma). To our knowledge, none of the latter three autoimmune conditions has been previously associated with primary anetoderma. 
Value of ultrasound in differentiating causes of persistent vomiting in infants. A prospective study of abdominal ultrasound was undertaken in 100 consecutive infants who presented with a history of persistent vomiting aged 5 to 90 days. Each infant had a 'test feed' followed by an ultrasonographic scan of the pylorus at the cotside. On test feeding a palpable tumour was evident in 38 infants. On real time ultrasound using the criteria for diagnosing pyloric stenosis, these 38 infants as well as six others were documented as having pyloric stenosis. In the other 56 patients the vomiting settled in six and a barium examination was performed on the remaining 50. This confirmed gastro-oesophageal reflux in 46, two of whom had an associated hiatus hernia, one with a duodenal malrotation, and three were reported as normal. Ultrasound of the abdomen is an accurate, reliable, and rapid screening method to differentiate the causes of severe vomiting in infancy. 
Factors affecting the patency of stents in malignant biliary obstructive disease: univariate and multivariate analysis. To investigate the factors affecting the patency of biliary stents, we performed univariate and multivariate analyses in 370 straight stents with diameters of 10- to 12-French gauge which had been inserted singly as palliative treatment in 228 patients with malignant biliary obstructive disease. In the analysis of 226 first stents, advanced age of patients and higher serum bilirubin levels before insertion were found to be significant unfavorable factors limiting the duration of stent function. Overall, older age, male sex, no stent cleaning, and insertion on three or more occasions were significant unfavorable prognostic factors for patency. The risk of occlusion for stents inserted on three or more occasions was 2.32 times that of the first stent insertion. The median duration of patency of first, second, and subsequent stents was 177, 98, and 97 days, respectively. Diagnosis and the area of stenosis were unrelated to patency. No predictive significance of length or size of stent between 10- and 12-French gauge was found in our study. 
Biological significance of tissue plasminogen activator content in brain tumors. Fresh brain-tumor samples were obtained at operation and analyzed for their content of tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA) using an activity assay (gel chromatography zymogram) and an enzyme-linked immunospecific assay. The specimens were taken from 23 glioblastomas, 35 metastatic tumors, 42 meningiomas, 16 low-grade gliomas, and seven acoustic neurinomas; seven specimens were from normal brain. A strong correlation was found between the results of the two assays (r = 0.77, p less than 0.0001). There was a threefold difference in the tPA content of the benign tumors as compared to malignant tumors (p = 0.0006), the latter having less tPA. Histologically benign meningiomas contained higher tPA than malignant meningiomas (p = 0.01); however, the difference between low-grade gliomas and high-grade gliomas was less evident. Overall regression analysis data have shown an inverse relationship between the tissue content in tPA and the presence and degree of tumor necrosis and peritumoral brain edema (p = 0.004 and p = 0.0004, respectively). This finding was most consistent in the glioblastoma group where the correlation coefficient values were r = 0.53 and r = -0.55, respectively. There was no significant correlation between the tissue tPA content and the age and sex, steroid use, or plasma tPA of the patients or the duration of symptoms. In summary, this is the first demonstration of tPA in a large series of human brain tumors and in normal brain. The differences observed have clear biological significance and, although the source of tPA in tumor tissue is still unknown, a relative reduction in tPA in tumor tissue may play an integral role in the development of tissue necrosis and tissue edema. The lack of tPA in tumor necrosis was not due to tissue destruction and cell death since urokinase was readily detectable in that tissue. 
Does selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract prevent multiple organ failure? An experimental study. Gut bacteria have been incriminated as causing or contributing to generalized sepsis with multiple organ failure in severely ill patients, and selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract of Enterobacteriaceae has been claimed to decrease septic complications in these patients. We studied the effects of selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract on survival and organ function in an experimental model of sepsis with multiple organ failure. Wistar rats were inoculated intraperitoneally with zymosan and randomized into control or treatment groups (trimethoprim or streptomycin sulfate). Selective decontamination effectively prevented bacterial translocation of Enterobacteriaceae. However, only early mortality was decreased, and only so in the streptomycin-treated rats. Selective decontamination did not result in a significantly better condition of the surviving animals on day 12. 
Polycystic ovaries: do these represent a specific endocrinopathy? Serum pituitary gonadotrophins, oestradiol, testosterone and insulin pulse patterns were examined at 15-min intervals for 6 h in 40 women with a previous diagnosis of polycystic ovarian disease (PCO) based on clinical, endocrinological and ultrasound data. Age, duration of symptoms, body mass index (BMI) and ovarian volume showed no correlation with the 6-h mean value of any hormone and testosterone blood levels did not correlate with those of insulin. Some patients had high and others low LH pulse pattern components, and few had an inverted LH:FSH ratio. Morphological polycystic ovarian changes may be a reflection of various rather than a single pattern of gonadotrophin secretion. 
Autonomic nervous system dysregulation in human hypertension. An increased sympathetic drive combined with decreased parasympathetic inhibition is found in patients with borderline hypertension, who characteristically have rapid heart rates, high cardiac output and relatively normal vascular resistance (hyperkinetic state). In established hypertension, cardiac output is normal, vascular resistance is elevated and signs of increased sympathetic drive are absent. Apparently hemodynamics and sympathetic drive change during hypertension. The mechanism of the hemodynamic transition in the course of hypertension is well understood. Cardiac output returns from elevated to normal values as beta-adrenergic receptors down-regulate and stroke volume decreases (due to decreased cardiac compliance). The high blood pressure induces vascular hypertrophy, which in turn leads to increased vascular resistance. The mechanism of the change of sympathetic tone from elevated in borderline hypertension to apparently normal in established hypertension can best be explained within the conceptual framework of the "blood-pressure-seeking" properties of the brain. In hypertension, the central nervous system seeks to maintain systemic blood pressure at the higher level. As hypertension advances and vascular hypertrophy develops, arterioles become hyperresponsive to vasoconstriction. At this point, less sympathetic drive is needed to maintain pressure-elevating vasoconstriction, and the central sympathetic drive is down-regulated. The etiology of increased sympathetic drive in hypertension remains unresolved. Subjects with increased sympathetic drive are also usually overweight and have elevated levels of insulin, cholesterol and triglycerides, as well as decreased high-density lipoproteins. Future research must focus on the link between coronary risk factors and sympathetic overactivity in hypertension. 
Miller-Dieker syndrome with ring chromosome 17. A girl presented at 6 weeks of age with failure to thrive and arching of the back. She had various dysmorphic features, hepatosplenomegaly, and developmental delay. The electroencephalogram and cranial ultrasound were abnormal, and a computed tomogram showed lissencephaly and apparent agenesis of the corpus callosum. Because of frequent aspiration she became oxygen dependent. She later developed intractable convulsions and died at the age of 9 months. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis of paramedic emergency medical services in the treatment of prehospital cardiopulmonary arrest. STUDY OBJECTIVES: 1) Identification of marginal costs associated with prehospital resuscitation of cardiopulmonary arrest; 2) Determination of cost effectiveness for such resuscitation; and 3) Comparison of cost effectiveness of paramedic care with selected other medical interventions. DESIGN: Retrospective review of 190 cases of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. SETTING: City limits of a midsized southwestern city. The events studied took place outside of medical facilities. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Victims of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest for whom the EMS system was activated by a 911 telephone request for emergency medical assistance. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The cost, including training, personnel, equipment, and response time maintenance, per year of life saved was found to be $8,886.00 for paramedic care. This result was compared with published cost-effectiveness figures for heart transplantation, liver transplantation, bone marrow transplantation, and chemotherapy for acute leukemia. Paramedic care was more cost effective, as measured by cost per year of life saved, than organ transplantation and chemotherapy for acute leukemia. CONCLUSION: Out-of-hospital treatment by paramedics of cardiopulmonary arrest is more cost effective than heart, liver, bone marrow transplantation, or curative chemotherapy for acute leukemia. 
The arrhythmogenicity of theophylline. A multivariate analysis of clinical determinants. OBJECTIVE: to determine the relation of serum theophylline concentrations (STC) to the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias in a population of hospitalized patients. STUDY DESIGN: A cross-sectional study of 100 patients receiving theophylline who had electrocardiograms at the time STC had been obtained. Categorization was based on STC without knowledge of clinical status: group 1 (25) had STC less than 2.5 mg/L; group 2 (25), STC greater than or equal to 2.5 less than 10 (6.2 +/- 0.4) mg/L; group 3 (25), STC greater than or equal to 10 less than or equal to 20 (15.8 +/- 0.4) mg/L; and group 4 (25), STC greater than 20 (27.8 +/- 1.1) mg/L. SETTING: A university-affiliated teaching hospital. RESULTS: Two-thirds of the patients were receiving theophylline in an oral form, with a similar distribution found in all groups. Groups were not different with respect to age, clinical diagnoses, electrocardiographic patterns, arterial pH or gases, serum calcium, or treatment with beta-agonists. Although fewer patients in group 1 were receiving steroids than those in the other groups, and serum potassium was lower in group 3 than in group 1 (4.0 +/- 0.6 vs 4.5 +/- 0.5 mEq/L, p less than 0.05), on multivariate analysis, serum potassium was not an independent predictor of arrhythmia, and treatment with steroids or digoxin was, at most, only weakly associated with the presence of arrhythmia. Heart rate was directly related to STC (r = 0.64, p less than 0.01), and STC was the strongest independent predictor of arrhythmia in this population. Although only 20 percent of patients in group 1 or 2 had arrhythmias, 48 percent of group 3 (p less than 0.05) and 56 percent of group 4 (p less than 0.05) had this finding. Moreover, the odds ratio of group 3 having an arrhythmia compared with group 1 was 3.7, 1.5 to 11.7, p less than 0.01. Multifocal atrial tachycardia was found in 8 percent of the patients in group 3 and 16 percent in group 4 but in none of the patients in groups 1 or 2. Two patients with multifocal atrial tachycardia died suddenly within 24 hours of having their STC measurement; none had concomitant ventricular ectopy. CONCLUSION: Theophylline causes tachycardia and serious arrhythmias even at STC considered to be therapeutic. Multifocal atrial tachycardia, an arrhythmia associated with use of this drug, may herald sudden cardiac death. 
Fourth branchial pouch sinus: diagnosis and treatment. The fourth branchial pouch sinus (FBPS) is a rare translaryngeal anomaly with diverse manifestations, including neonatal stridor and recurrent deep neck infection. Review of the world literature reveals 23 reports of sinuses consistent with fourth pouch origin. We present two additional cases, including the only example of a right-sided FBPS. Retrograde excision, beginning at the piriform apex, ensures complete removal of the tract and protection of the recurrent nerve. The posterior border of the thyroid ala must be resected or retracted for adequate exposure. Failure to remove the translaryngeal portion of the tract almost guarantees recurrence. 
Suprascapular nerve entrapment. A series of 27 cases. Suprascapular nerve entrapment is an acquired neuropathy secondary to compression of the nerve in the bony suprascapular notch. A series of 27 cases, the largest reported to date, is presented and examined as to the best and most appropriate method of diagnosis and treatment. The entity is described in detail as to its origin, anatomy, and pathophysiology. 
Acute effects of ethanol on cultured myocardial cells: an ultrastructural study. Myocardial cells in monolayer culture were examined ultrastructurally at various times (5 min-24 hr) after addition of ethanol (12.5-500 mM). At 5 min, all concentrations of ethanol induced mitochondrial fusion and a remarkable increase in glycogen granules, and the mitochondrial outer membrane seemed more fragile. These initial ultrastructural changes then recovered with time. Glycogen granules were decreased, then returned to normal more rapidly as the ethanol concentration was increased. Mitochondrial fusion and fragile appearance of the outer membrane were hardly seen at 1 hr in the presence of 12.5 or 50 mM ethanol, but were still evident with higher ethanol concentrations (200 and 500 mM), though less frequently than at 5 and 30 min. Furthermore, 'giant mitochondria' (with at least a five-fold increase in sectional area) appeared in the presence of 200 and 500 mM ethanol with increasing time of exposure. These results are discussed in relation to the direct effects of ethanol. 
Effect of diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis immunization on prolonged apnea or bradycardia in siblings of sudden infant death syndrome victims. To determine whether the incidence of apnea or bradycardia increased after the first diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP) immunization in 100 subsequent siblings of victims of sudden infant death syndrome, we examined data obtained from floppy disk recordings attached to apnea-bradycardia monitors for episodes of apnea lasting 15 seconds or longer and episodes of bradycardia lasting 10 seconds or longer. The data were divided into three periods: (1) 10 days before the first DTP immunization was received (pre-DTP period), (2) 10 days immediately after the DTP (DTP period), and (3) 10 days after the DTP period (post-DTP period). Seventeen infants had at least one episode of prolonged apnea or prolonged bradycardia either before or after the 30-day study period (eight before only, eight after only, and one before and after). None of the infants had episodes of apnea lasting 15 seconds or more or bradycardia lasting 10 seconds or more during the pre-DTP or DTP period. One episode of apnea, 16 seconds long, and one episode of bradycardia lasting 11 seconds occurred in the post-DTP period. These results failed to confirm the clinical impression that DTP immunizations are associated with an increased frequency and severity of prolonged apnea. They also place in question the utility of assessing an infant's response to a DTP immunization to determine continued risk of apnea and bradycardia before home monitoring is discontinued. 
Kikuchi-Fujimoto syndrome during pregnancy. Necrotizing lymphadenitis of the Kikuchi-Fujimoto type developed in our patient during her first trimester of pregnancy, but she carried the infant to full term with no apparent adverse effect. Two subsequent pregnancies were not associated with reactivation of the disorder, nor with any recognizable adverse effect on the fetuses. A pregnancy should not be terminated because of Kikuchi-Fujimoto necrotizing lymphadenitis when it develops during the first trimester of pregnancy. 
Management of valvular heart disease: an illustrative cases approach. As indicated by the 22 illustrative cases included in this monograph, a stepwise approach to the assessment of valvular heart disease provides the information necessary to make good clinical decisions. The ECG and chest x-ray add useful information to the history and physical examination. Echocardiography, Doppler, and color flow Doppler techniques have an important role in defining the presence and severity of valvular stenosis and regurgitation. Nuclear techniques provide useful information about global biventricular systolic function, regional wall motion, and myocardial perfusion. Exercise testing is most valuable in confirming objectively the patient's functional status and exercise tolerance. Newer imaging techniques, such as cine CT and MRI, are capable of displaying and measuring cardiac chamber size and myocardial thickness; however, visualization of the cardiac valves and demonstration of flow abnormalities are difficult, limiting the current usefulness of these techniques in patients with valvular heart disease. 
Color Doppler ultrasound imaging in iatrogenic arterial injuries. Pulsatile masses following arterial puncture for diagnostic or therapeutic procedures may represent false aneurysms or noncommunicating periarterial hematomas with transmitted arterial pulsation. Color Doppler ultrasound imaging was used in 27 patients with pulsatile groin masses. Of these 27 patients, 23 were diagnosed as having pseudoaneurysms and 5 as having periarterial hematomas. The pseudoaneurysms were confirmed at surgical exploration, and the periarterial hematomas were all observed longitudinally with spontaneous resolution. With a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 100% in this clinical study, color Doppler ultrasound imaging appears to be the diagnostic modality of choice for detecting false aneurysms following transarterial procedures, obviating the need for additional invasive diagnostic procedures. 
Diagnostic problems in tissues previously sampled by fine-needle aspiration. Unusual tissue changes in needle tracts after fine-needle aspiration were studied in two specimens. One specimen, a 3.0 x 2.5 cm mesenteric nodule, was found six days after a nondiagnostic transabdominal fine-needle aspiration of a retroperitoneal mass. At frozen-section examination, the nodule had proliferating spindle-shaped cells interspersed with adipocytes that raised the possibility of well-differentiated liposarcoma. On permanent sections, however, there was fat necrosis and reactive spindle-shaped cells that immunohistochemically were consistent with myofibroblasts. In the second case, a needle tract was noted in breast tissue on which a biopsy was performed two days after a cytologic diagnosis of carcinoma. The 0.4-mm-wide tract contained neutrophils, foamy histiocytes, and clumps of intact, atypical epithelial cells without a desmoplastic or elastotic component. Aside from these epithelial cells, nothing in the biopsy specimen suggested invasive carcinoma. The cells were identical to those from a comedocarcinoma present in the biopsy and mastectomy specimens. These two cases provide examples of pitfalls that may arise during the examination of biopsy specimens obtained after fine-needle aspiration. 
Intestinal obstruction during shigellosis: incidence, clinical features, risk factors, and outcome. To determine the incidence and outcome of intestinal obstruction during shigellosis, the authors assessed 1211 consecutive patients with shigellosis admitted during a 15-month period to a diarrhea treatment center in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Obstruction was identified in 30 (2.5%) patients. Ten (33.3%) of these patients died, compared with 97 (8.2%) of the 1181 patients without obstructions (P less than 0.001; RR = 4.1). In a case-control study, patients with obstructions were compared with 30 control patients with shigellosis but without obstructions. Case and control patients were similar in age (median, 18 months vs. 24 months; NS). Before admission to the hospital, case patients had less often been breast-fed than control patients (33% vs. 85%; P = 0.006) and had more often received antimicrobial agents (53% vs. 13%; P = 0.001). Case patients more often had abdominal tenderness (73% vs. 13%; P less than 0.001), altered consciousness (50% vs. 17%; P = 0.006), and Shigella dysenteriae type 1 infection (73% vs. 27%, P = 0.001) and had a higher median blood leukocyte count (40 x 10(3)/microL vs. 14 x 10(3)/microL; P = 0.007) and serum potassium concentration (5.0 mmol/L vs. 4.3 mmol/L; P = 0.016), and lower median serum sodium (123 mmol/L vs. 131 mmol/L; P = 0.003) and total protein (52 g/L vs. 60 g/L; P = 0.025) concentrations than did control patients. Eight (27%) patients with obstructions developed the hemolytic-uremic syndrome, compared with none of the control patients (P = 0.003). It was concluded that obstruction is an ominous complication of shigellosis and that therapies in addition to provision of antimicrobial agents need to be evaluated. 
Reviewing oral leukoplakia: clinical concepts for the 1990s. Microscopic evidence of dysplasia is not necessary to diagnose leukoplakia. Rather leukoplakia is clinically diagnosed not so much by defining appearances as by excluding other lesions also appearing as oral white plaques. 
The dyad symmetry element is the molecular target for c-fos induction and inhibition during K 562 differentiation along mutually exclusive lineages. The c-fos proto-oncogene seems to play an important role during differentiation and activation of cells from the hematopoietic lineage. Therefore, it is of interest to investigate the mechanism underlying its transcriptional activation in these cells. To delineate the sequences and factors involved in c-fos transcriptional activation during the course of myeloid cell differentiation, we have used the K 562 chronic leukemic cell line as a model. K 562 cells were transfected with chloramphenicol transacetylase (CAT) reporter constructs, including various regions of the human c-fos promoter, and induced to differentiate by two distinct agents: 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA), which activates a differentiation program along the megakaryoblastic pathway; and hemin, which induces erythroid differentiation. We show here that TPA treatment of K 562 cells induces fos CAT reporter constructs activation, whereas treatment with hemin does not. Furthermore, predifferentiation of the cells with hemin blocks a subsequent induction by TPA, in correlation with the inhibition by hemin of megakaryoblastic differentiation markers appearance. Both the induction by TPA and the inhibition by hemin are mediated by a dyad symmetry element (DSE) located in the upstream regulatory region, between -318 and -296. These results suggest that the protein complex binding to the DSE regulatory element is the target for c-fos activation by TPA and inhibition by hemin in K 562 cells. However, no modulation of protein affinity for the DSE sequence was detected by gel shift assay during the course of induction or inhibition, suggesting that the structural change responsible for the transcriptional modulation is too unstable or too subtle to be detected by this method. 
Proliferation of endocrine cells in the rat stomach caused by drug-induced achlorhydria. Time-related changes of serum gastrin levels, gastrin cell, and enterochromaffinlike cell densities, and proliferation kinetics of these cells have been examined in rats during treatment with the substituted benzimidazole BY 308 over a period of 73 days. Serum gastrin levels increased very rapidly from 74 +/- 6 pg/mL (controls) to 438 +/- 31 pg/mL (day 1) and 727 +/- 68 pg/mL (day 4). Thereafter, a steady increase was observed until day 70 (2097 +/- 208 pg/mL). Enterochromaffinlike cell density was unchanged until day 10, but then increased progressively without reaching a plateau (144% above control on day 73). The labeling index of these cells was enhanced shortly after drug application and remained on a constant elevated level from day 14 to day 73 (about 10-fold to 12-fold above controls from day 14 to day 70). The number of gastrin cells increased rapidly within the first week and reached a plateau after 17 days (96% increase above controls). In contrast to enterochromaffinlike cells, the labeling index did not change immediately but increased on day 7 by 37% and returned beneath control values after day 28. The results suggest that in drug-induced achlorhydria, the progressive increase of enterochromaffinlike cells is explained by an enhanced mitosis, whereas other factors in addition to proliferation are responsible for the augmentation of gastrin cells. 
Thoracoabdominal aneurysm resection after previous infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysmectomy. Thoracoabdominal aneurysms in 51 patients were repaired over 5 years ending in February 1991. Fourteen (27%, 14 of 51) patients had a prior infrarenal aneurysm resection (PRA); their data are analyzed separately. The average age of patients who had undergone PRA was 67 years (range: 56 to 86 years). The mean aneurysm diameter was 8.6 cm (range: 5 to 12 cm), and the mean time interval between initial aneurysm surgery and subsequent resection of the thoracoabdominal aneurysm was 8.5 years (range: 2 to 17 years). Three patients in the PRA group were operated on emergently, two because of clinical evidence of rupture; the other patients underwent elective repair. Early mortality (30 days) in the PRA group was significantly related to age (72 years or older versus younger than 72 years: 75% versus 10%, p = 0.04), proximal extent of aneurysm (above diaphragm versus below diaphragm: 50% versus 0%, p = 0.05), ruptured aneurysm (ruptured versus nonruptured: 100% versus 16%, p = 0.06), and a cardiac history of myocardial infarction (57% versus 0%, p = 0.03), congestive heart failure (66% versus 0%, p = 0.01), or arrhythmia (80% versus 0%, p = 0.005). Similar results were seen with the entire group of patients with thoracoabdominal aneurysms except that the proximal extent of the aneurysm was not related to mortality. These results demonstrate that thoracoabdominal aneurysm resection after prior infrarenal aneurysmectomy is not associated with increased mortality or morbidity. 
The pathogenic role of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) are found in the sera of patients with systemic necrotizing vasculitis and glomerulonephritis. Their role in the pathogenesis of these diseases is not clearly understood; however, there is a growing body of data that supports a pathogenic function for these antibodies. In vitro they can activate neutrophils and monocytes to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS), degranulate, and damage target cells. The antigens to which they are directed stimulate T lymphocytes from patients with these diseases. The ANCA directed against proteinase 3 (PR3) may also play a role in growth regulation of monocytes by inactivating the enzymatic function of its antigen. The proposed model of ANCA-induced disease takes into account both the in vitro data and the natural history of these diseases. 
Haemodynamic effects and outcome analysis of hypotensive extradural anaesthesia in controlled hypertensive patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty. We have examined the safety of induced hypotension produced by extradural anaesthesia in patients with medically controlled hypertension. The haemodynamic response to induced hypotension was assessed in 38 non-hypertensive and 31 controlled hypertensive patients. All received extradural anaesthesia to T4 or above which decreased mean arterial pressure to 52 mm Hg and 55 mm Hg in normotensive and hypertensive patients, respectively. Cardiac output (thermodilution) was maintained by low dose i.v. infusions of adrenaline (1-5 micrograms min-1). No differences in the haemodynamic response to induced hypotension were observed in hypertensive patients. Data were collected also from 987 consecutive patients (353 hypertensive and 634 non-hypertensive) undergoing total hip replacement. Patients with hypertension were significantly older (68 vs 60 yr; P less than 0.001) and had greater ASA ratings (P less than 0.001). The smallest recorded systolic pressures were reduced more in patients with hypertension (57% vs 52%, respectively; P less than 0.001). The mean duration of maintained intraoperative hypotension (100 and 98 min) and estimated intraoperative blood loss (278 vs 281 ml) were similar in each group. After operation, two patients developed myocardial infarctions. None developed acute renal failure or stroke. There were three deaths; one of a patient who had hypertension. This suggests that induced hypotension with extradural anaesthesia is a safe technique for patients with medically controlled hypertension undergoing total hip arthroplasty. 
Rare choroidal tumour simulating a malignant melanoma. A 15-year-old boy had been treated for a central chorioretinitis of his right eye. The other eye had always been normal. Two years later he presented a relapse with deterioration of central visual acuity. All clinical tests, including fluorescein angiography, suggested an inflammatory process this time again. Thereafter, the patient did not show up for 6 years. Then he came to hospital because of strong pains in his right eye. Now, a blind and inflamed eye was found with a huge tumour from the optic nerve extending to the temporal periphery. All clinical investigations, amongst others ultrasonography, computerized tomography and magnetic resonance tomography, suggested a choroidal melanoma with extrabulbar extension. An enucleation with partial exenteration was performed. A demonstration and discussion of the clinical findings and the rare and complicated histological diagnosis of a very unusual ectopic meningioma-like lesion are given. 
Prediction of postoperative pain and duration of hospitalization using two anxiety measures. This study examined the extent to which measures of anxiety could predict pain and the length of hospitalization following surgery in 111 patients with gallstones over and above what could be predicted on the basis of biographical and medical status variables. Self-reported pain on the third day postoperative could hardly be explained by the variables measured. Preoperative anxiety did not increase the value of the prediction. Age, type of surgery, cystitis and wound infection explained a significant proportion of the variance in postoperative hospital stay. Over and above these variables. A-state on the third postoperative day and also A-state and specific anxiety measured 1 day before surgery exerted a significant increase on the values of prediction of the length of postoperative hospitalization. 
Interferon-gamma inhibits arterial stenosis after injury. BACKGROUND. Arterial injury initiates a proliferative response among the smooth muscle cells of the artery. This leads to the formation of a thickened intima that may reduce the diameter of the arterial lumen. Such intimal lesions often develop after vascular surgery and angioplastic procedures. Previous cell culture studies have shown that the lymphokine, interferon-gamma (gIFN), inhibits smooth muscle cell proliferation. METHODS AND RESULTS. We therefore tested whether administration of exogenous gIFN could inhibit the development of intimal lesions. Rat carotid arteries were denuded with a balloon catheter, resulting in the formation of a standardized intimal lesion. The animals were then treated with recombinant rat gIFN at 200,000 units (approximately 400,000 units or 100 micrograms/kg body wt) administered parenterally once daily for 7 days. Autoradiographic analysis of 3H-thymidine incorporation revealed that gIFN reduced the early smooth muscle replication by approximately 75%. gIFN treatment for 1 week resulted in a 50% reduction of intimal cross-section area at 2 weeks after injury when compared to control rats injected with buffer alone. The difference in lesion development persisted in rats analyzed 10 weeks after injury, suggesting that proliferative events during the first week determine the long-term development of the intima. Inhibition of lesion development was accompanied by expression of the class II histocompatibility (Ia) gene, RT1B, suggesting that both were directly related to the administration of gIFN. CONCLUSIONS. These results show that gIFN is a potent inhibitor of the formation of arterial proliferative lesions in vivo. It is possible that gIFN could be useful in preventing arterial stenosis after surgery and angioplasty in man. 
Anaerobic threshold in patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. The aim of the present study was to investigate the ventilatory anaerobic threshold in patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. Ventilatory volumes and gas exchanges were measured during treadmill stress testing in 36 patients (11 with previous myocardial infarction) with electrocardiographic criteria of myocardial ischemia during the test and in 23 healthy, untrained control subjects of equivalent age. The anaerobic threshold was detected in 32 of 36 patients (89%) and in 22 of 23 control subjects (96%). The anaerobic threshold was significantly lower in patients than in control subjects (13.5 +/- 1.9 versus 19.7 +/- 1.7 ml/kg per minute VO2, p less than 0.001). In the 21 patients without previous myocardial infarction, the anaerobic threshold was also significantly lower than in the control subjects (13.9 +/- 1.6 versus 19.7 +/- 1.7 ml/kg per minute VO2, p less than 0.001). Among the 21 patients without previous myocardial infarction, the 12 with a low ischemic threshold, which occurred during the first three steps of the modified Bruce protocol, had an anaerobic threshold significantly lower than the other nine patients (13.1 +/- 1.5 versus 14.9 +/- 1.0 ml/kg per minute VO2, p less than 0.01). However, even in the patients with a moderate to high ischemic threshold, the anaerobic threshold was significantly lower than in the control subjects (p less than 0.001). These data show that the anaerobic threshold can be measured in the great majority of patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. The low anaerobic threshold level indicates a relevant functional impairment in these patients. 
Safety and efficacy of repeat thrombolytic treatment after acute myocardial infarction. Thrombolytic treatment for acute myocardial infarction increases the risk of subsequent reocclusion of the infarct related artery. The efficacy and safety of repeat thrombolytic treatment was assessed in 31 patients treated with streptokinase (n = 13) or tissue plasminogen activator (n = 18) a median of five days (1-716) after the first infusion. The indication for readministration was prolonged chest pain with new ST segment elevation. Efficacy was assessed by infarct artery patency at angiography at a median of eight days after readministration in 22 patients and by non-invasive criteria in 23 patients (reperfusion was deemed to be likely if serum creatine kinase was not increased or reached a peak less than 12 hours after infarction). Angiography showed patency of 70% of the infarct arteries after readministration of streptokinase and of 75% after tissue plasminogen activator. The corresponding patency rates assessed noninvasively were 73% and 75%. Reinfarction was prevented in nine (29%) patients. Allergic reactions occurred in four of eight patients who received streptokinase twice (plasmacytosis and acute reversible renal failure developed in one patient). Two patients had major bleeding and two minor bleeding, all after tissue plasminogen activator, and one of them died of cerebral haemorrhage. Repeat thrombolytic treatment results in late patency rates similar to the rates after the initial administration. Allergic reactions were common in those treated twice with streptokinase. 
Cancer rates after the Three Mile Island nuclear accident and proximity of residence to the plant. BACKGROUND: In the light of a possible link between stress and cancer promotion or progression, and of previously reported distress in residents near the Three Mile Island (TMI) nuclear power plant, we attempted to evaluate the impact of the March 1979 accident on community cancer rates. METHODS: Proximity of residence to the plant, which related to distress in previous studies, was taken as a possible indicator of accident stress; the postaccident pattern in cancer rates was examined in 69 "study tracts" within a 10-mile radius of TMI, in relation to residential proximity. RESULTS: A modest association was found between postaccident cancer rates and proximity (OR = 1.4; 95% CI = 1.3, 1.6). After adjusting for a gradient in cancer risk prior to the accident, the odds ratio contrasting those closest to the plant with those living farther out was 1.2 (95% CI = 1.0, 1.4). A postaccident increase in cancer rates near the Three Mile Island plant was notable in 1982, persisted for another year, and then declined. Radiation emissions, as modeled mathematically, did not account for the observed increase. CONCLUSION: Interpretation in terms of accident stress is limited by the lack of an individual measure of stress and by uncertainty about whether stress has a biological effect on cancer in humans. An alternative mechanism for the cancer increase near the plant is through changes in care-seeking and diagnostic practice arising from postaccident concern. 
Peritoneopericardial diaphragmatic hernia discovered at coronary bypass operation. A 68-year-old man was discovered to have a large peritoneopericardial hernia when operated on for coronary artery bypass. Such hernias are very unusual. The pathogenesis, clinical presentation, and management of this problem are discussed. 
Primary mandibular reconstruction: analysis of 64 cases and evaluation of interface radiation dosimetry on bridging plates. The combination of a myocutaneous flap or free cutaneous tissue transfer with a three-dimensional bendable reconstruction plate either of stainless steel or titanium has provided very satisfactory results in primary restoration of mandibular defects following surgical resections in irradiated patients or in those who require postoperative radiotherapy. Sixty-four cases have been treated and evaluated prospectively using this technique. Fifty-three of the patients had the soft-tissue defect restored with a myocutaneous flap, 8 had a free cutaneous tissue flap, 2 were reconstructed with tongue flaps, and 1 closed primarily. The stainless steel plate of the A.O. type was used in 53 cases and the titanium plate system and hollow screws in the other 11 cases. A success rate of 78.9% was found with a median follow-up of 384 days. Thirty of the 64 cases had preoperative irradiation and 15 were treated postoperatively. A plate failure rate of 23% was encountered in those treated with preoperative irradiation and in 20% with those having postoperative irradiation. Forty-nine of the 64 patients or 76.5% experienced no perioperative complications. Five or 7.8% of the complications were minor. Ten patients or 15.6% experienced a major complication with one death due to a myocardial infarct. A radiation dosimetric model was employed using both stainless steel and titanium. The results from this study showed that, when using a parallel pair of beams, an excess dose of irradiation for the lowest energy cobalt-60 is 13%, for 6 mV it is 15%, and for 18 mV it is 20%. The excess tissue dose, both for stainless steel and titanium plates, extends for about 0.2 mm for cobalt-60, 1.1 mm at 6 mV, and for 25 mm at 18 mV. Patients with plates, therefore, can be treated safely with postoperative irradiation using either cobalt-60 or 6-mV energy. 
Transcatheter occlusion of pulmonary arterial circulation and collateral supply: failures, incidents, and complications. Failures and complications were analyzed retrospectively in 45 patients treated with embolotherapy or occlusion of pulmonary arterial circulation. Pulmonary arterial branches were occluded with steel coils in 19 patients with pulmonary arteriovenous malformations, 17 with hemoptysis of pulmonary artery (PA) origin, and one with massive parenchymal shunt. Bronchial arterial supply to the lung was embolized with small particles in eight cases of hemoptysis and systemic to pulmonary arterial antegrade shunt secondary to chronic thromboembolism. Asymptomatic incidents included catheterization failures, vascular damage, partial occlusion, partial recanalization of the thrombus, ectopic deposition of a coil, and delayed bacterial contamination of the thrombus. A few cases of transient clinical and radiologic signs of pulmonary infarction were observed after complete occlusion of the PA and bronchial artery embolization. This complication was never observed after complete occlusion of main right or left PA, inferior right or left PA, or segmental branches. The management and prevention of these complications, the role of bronchial arterial collateral pathways, and the importance of the site of PA occlusion in the development of pulmonary infarction are discussed. 
Follow-up study of unruptured aneurysms arising from the C3 and C4 segments of the internal carotid artery. A follow-up study of unruptured aneurysms arising from the C3 and C4 segments of the internal carotid artery was performed. During the 10-year period from 1979 to 1989, there were 22 patients with 24 aneurysms arising from the C3 or C4 segment of the internal carotid artery. All 24 aneurysms were unruptured. They represented 3% of all intracranial aneurysms and 11% of all internal carotid artery aneurysms diagnosed at the hospital during the 10-year period. Eighteen patients were women and 4 were men. Their ages ranged from 34 to 82 years (mean 63.3 years). Of the 22 patients, 12 (55%) had multiple aneurysms. A follow-up study without treatment was made in 15 of the 22 patients who had a total of 16 unruptured aneurysms arising from the C3 or C4 segment of the internal carotid artery. This study excluded 7 of the 22 patients with a total of eight aneurysms because of operation or death soon after diagnosis. The average maximal dimension of the 16 aneurysms was 5 mm, with a range of 2-17 mm. Follow-up periods varied from 11 months to 10.5 years, with an average of 4.7 years. During this period, none of the 16 aneurysms ruptured, and they remained asymptomatic, except for one aneurysm that had been discovered as a result of the cavernous sinus syndrome. Some surgeons are now attempting direct operations on intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms, even if the aneurysms are unruptured and relatively small. 
Standardizing neck dissection terminology. Official report of the Academy's Committee for Head and Neck Surgery and Oncology. The emergence of the multitude of modified techniques for neck dissection procedure has resulted in a nomenclature system that is nonuniform. To eliminate potential misinterpretation, overlap, and lack of standardization, the Academy's Committee for Head and Neck Surgery and Oncology, with input from the Education Committee of the American Society of Head and Neck Surgery, has developed a classification system for these procedures. This has now been adopted by the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery. The classification is based on the following concepts: (1) radical neck dissection is the fundamental procedure with which all other neck dissections are compared, (2) modified radical neck dissection denotes preservation of one or more nonlymphatic structure(s), (3) selective neck dissection denotes preservation of one or more group(s) of lymph nodes, and (4) extended radical neck dissection denotes removal of one or more additional lymphatic and/or nonlymphatic structure(s). Adherence to the principles of this classification system to describe neck dissection techniques should provide an improved method of communication. Furthermore, the system provides a rational framework on which subsequent terminology can be added. 
Characterization of tumor hypoxia by 31P MR spectroscopy. Tumor hypoxia is of considerable importance to the oncologist in selecting and optimizing cancer therapy, because hypoxia can determine the effectiveness of various therapies. The relationship between tumor hypoxia and tumor bioenergetics, assessed by 31P MR spectroscopy, is examined to determine whether 31P MR spectroscopy can be clinically useful to measure or characterize tumor hypoxia. Work with experimental tumors has suggested that several different types of hypoxia may exist and that 31P MR spectroscopy cannot be used to characterize all types. Metabolic hypoxia is the level of hypoxia that results in mitochondrial impairment in cells, and it is associated with declining cellular bioenergetic status, which can be measured by enzymatic assay of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Because 31P MR spectroscopy is sensitive to levels of ATP, it is potentially sensitive to metabolic hypoxia in vivo and may provide a rapid and noninvasive technique for characterizing metabolic hypoxia in tumors. Radiobiologic hypoxia is the level of hypoxia that results in attenuated cell death due to radiation, because radiotoxicity is directly related to tissue levels of oxygen. Radiobiologic hypoxia of tumors thus has more impact on choice of therapy, yet the relationship between metabolic hypoxia and radiobiologic hypoxia remains to be elucidated. An analysis of published data suggests that 31P MR spectroscopy is directly sensitive to metabolic hypoxia in tumors, but it is only indirectly sensitive to radiobiologic hypoxia in tumors. Therefore, 31P MR spectroscopy may be unable to quantify the cell fraction of a tumor that has radiobiologic hypoxia. However, preliminary data suggest that MR spectroscopy may prove useful for determining the effectiveness of therapeutic interventions designed to manipulate radiobiologic hypoxia in tumors or for monitoring the kinetics of tumor reoxygenation after treatment. 
The Sugiura procedure for patients with hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis. The Sugiura procedure (SP) was performed upon 27 patients with hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis (EPVT) without associated hepatic disease. There were 14 female and 13 male patients. The mean age was 28 +/- 14 years. The causes of EPVT were protein C deficiency in two; antithrombin III deficiency in one patient, a history of omphalitis in two patients, a history of pancreatitis in one patient and idiopathy in 21 patients. The SP was completed in two surgical stages in 14 patients and in one stage in nine. There was one operative death. One patient had mild postoperative encephalopathy, and two patients rebled at long term follow-up study. Actuarial survival rate was 82 per cent at five and ten years. It is concluded that the SP is a good alternative for the management of hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to EPVT. 
Reversal of intrapulmonary shunting in cirrhosis after liver transplantation demonstrated by perfusion lung scan. A young girl with biliary atresia leading to cirrhosis developed respiratory complications with hypoxemia. Intrapulmonary shunting was diagnosed with a 99mTc-MAA perfusion lung scan, which showed marked systemic activity. The shunting resolved after liver transplantation. The perfusion lung scan offers an efficient method to screen patients with cirrhosis in whom intrapulmonary shunts are suspected and to follow their progress. 
Surgical approaches for resection of heterotopic ossification in traumatic brain-injured adults. The site of heterotopic ossification (HO) at the elbow or the hip dictates the surgical approach for resection. Three approaches are used for HO resection at the elbow: (1) a posterolateral approach for posterolateral HO; (2) an anterolateral approach for anterior HO; and (3) a medical approach for medial or posteromedial HO or anterior transfer of the ulnar nerve. Two approaches are recommended for resection of HO at the hip: (1) an anterior approach for anterior or inferomedial HO and (2) a posterior approach for posterior HO. Posterior HO is often associated with a hip-flexion contracture, and an anterior soft-tissue release may be necessary as well. Physical examination indicates the prognosis for functional improvement as well as recurrence. Patients with a near normal neurologic recovery have minimal to no HO recurrence with improved limb function and increased joint motion, whereas a poor neurologic recovery and persistent spasticity are associated with recurrence of HO and no functional limb improvement. Standard roentgenograms aid in selecting the appropriate surgical approach. Radiation, indomethacin, and diphosphonates have been administered for prophylaxis. Physical therapy is necessary until range of motion stabilizes. 
Strategies for reducing cardiovascular risk in women. The major risk factors for coronary heart disease in women are much the same as in men. They include elevated cholesterol, hypertension, diabetes, cigarette smoking, severe obesity, a history of stroke and/or thromboembolic disease, and a family history of premature coronary heart disease. Diabetes appears to confer a greater risk and hypertension to have a lesser effect in women than in men. The obstetrician-gynecologist's role as primary care physician is important in terms of risk reduction counseling in areas that are amenable to change: diet, exercise and cigarette smoking. A fourth area, prescribing hormonal therapy, including oral contraceptives and hormone replacement, is the one risk reduction modality that is within the physician's control. 
Shortlasting, unilateral, neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection, tearing, and subclinical forehead sweating ("Sunct" syndrome): II. Changes in heart rate and arterial blood pressure during pain paroxysms. The recently described "Sunct" syndrome is a rare picture of unilateral, shortlasting headache attacks accompanied by autonomic phenomena (conjunctival injection, tearing, etc.) on the symptomatic side. Heart rate and blood pressure were monitored in two elderly "Sunct" patients during and outside headache attacks. An ultrasound Doppler servo method was used for the non-invasive, continuous, beat-to-beat determination of instantaneous arterial blood pressure. In a third patient, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, both outside and during pain paroxysms, were assessed using the standard Korotkoff method. Heart rate was found to be significantly decreased during pain paroxysms. Systolic blood pressure was observed to be significantly increased during attacks, when compared with the inter-attack period, while a less consistent pattern was observed for diastolic blood pressure. Some of the changes in the cardiovascular system seemed to start prior to pain onset. Therefore, it seems unlikely that these changes were caused by pain activation of the sympathetic nervous system or the oculocardiac reflex. 
Associative anomia: dissociating words and their definitions. A 60-year-old woman, in whom magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography confirmed the presence of chronic damage to the left temporal lobe, had pure anomia with sparing of other language and cognitive functions. She could independently access lexical knowledge (words) and semantic knowledge (word definitions). We postulate that her anomia was due to a failure to associate lexical and semantic knowledge. 
Benign hemorrhagic adrenocortical macrocysts in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. A new pseudotumorous lesion found in the adrenal cortex of six infants with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is described. These cystic masses were discovered either prenatally by using sonography or early in the neonatal period as palpable flank masses. Imaging studies, including sonography and CT, could not confidently exclude malignancy. After the masses were removed surgically, histologic examination showed them all to be benign hemorrhagic macrocysts within the capsule or permanent cortex (in contrast to neonatal adrenal hemorrhage, which usually occurs more centrally in the fetal cortex). The cysts were as large as 8 cm in diameter, and in one case a solitary cyst was predominant. Hemihypertrophy was present in all cases. Four of the six lesions were right-sided, and there was a male-female ratio of 5:1. Benign hemorrhagic adrenocortical macrocysts are a cause of abdominal mass in the fetus and neonate with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. 
Effects of U74006F on multifocal cerebral blood flow and metabolism after cardiac arrest in dogs. Lipid peroxidation reactions during reperfusion after cardiac arrest may contribute to postischemic cerebral hypoperfusion, which in turn can contribute to permanent neurological dysfunction. We designed this study to determine whether the aminosteroid U74006F, a putative inhibitor of lipid peroxidation, mitigates cerebral multifocal hypoperfusion after cardiac arrest. We used our established dog model of ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest (no blood flow) of 12.5 minutes, reperfusion by cardiopulmonary bypass of less than or equal to 5 minutes, and control of extracerebral variables during 4 hours postarrest. Cerebral blood flow was monitored by the stable xenon computed tomography method. Changes in cerebral oxygen consumption were obtained from mean blood flow values of coronal slices and the cerebral arteriovenous (sagittal sinus) oxygen content difference. A treatment group (n = 5) received U74006F starting with reperfusion (1.5 mg/kg i.a. plus 1.5 mg/kg i.v.) and three additional (graded) doses over 4 hours (total dose 4.5, 7.5, or 14.5 mg/kg). The U74006F-treated group showed the same postarrest transient hyperemia and protracted hypoperfusion in terms of global (computed tomography slice), regional, and local (multifocal) cerebral blood flow values and the same global cerebral oxygen consumption pattern as a concurrent control group (n = 5). At 1-4 hours postarrest, in both groups there was mismatching of global cerebral oxygen consumption, which reached baseline values, in relation to global cerebral blood flow and oxygen delivery, which remained at 50% of baseline. We conclude that treatment with U74006F after prolonged cardiac arrest causes no deleterious side effects and does not seem to alter multifocal postarrest cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption. 
Pulmonary microvascular permeability in patients with severe mitral stenosis. Patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis often have no pulmonary oedema despite considerably increased pulmonary venous pressure. Pulmonary microvascular permeability was measured non-invasively by a previously validated method of double isotope scintigraphy with indium-113m and technetium-99m. This permits calculation of an index reflecting transferrin efflux and thus, indirectly, the microvascular permeability. Fifteen patients with severe mitral stenosis (defined as valve area less than 1.0 cm2) were compared with a control group of 11 patients with mild coronary artery disease. The permeability index was significantly lower in patients with mitral stenosis than in the control group. Furthermore, the extent of reduction of the permeability index correlated with the severity of mitral stenosis as reflected by the Gorlin valve area. This finding may account for the relative resistance of these patients to pulmonary oedema despite chronic pulmonary venous hypertension. 
The effect on pulmonary function of tangential field technique in radiotherapy for carcinoma of the breast. Twenty-five patients treated by lumpectomy and radiotherapy for Stage I breast cancer were enrolled in a prospective study to measure the effects of tangential field irradiation on pulmonary function. Fractional doses of 2 Gy to a total of 50 Gy were administered with the tangential technique. An additional 10 Gy (2 Gy x 5) was given as direct booster. Dynamic and static lung volumes, distribution of ventilation and gas transfer were measured before irradiation and at varying intervals up to 1 year after the completion of therapy. There was a small, but statistically significant decrease in the forced vital capacity (mean 63 ml) and the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (mean 79 ml) measured 3 months after irradiation (p less than 0.05). These changes were reversed within 1 year. The reduction in total lung capacity (mean 240 ml) after 3 months was nearly significant (p = 0.06). The remaining variables did not change to a significant degree. We conclude that a slight restrictive ventilatory impairment may occur when a combined tangential and direct booster technique is applied. The changes are, however, small and reversible, and imply no clinical importance. 
The significance of antibody to hepatitis C virus in patients with chronic hepatitis B. We assessed the prevalence and clinical significance of antibodies to hepatitis C virus among a cohort of 148 patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Sixteen patients (11%) had anti-hepatitis C virus detectable by enzyme-linked immunoassay. The results from eight of these patients were positive by recombinant immunoblot assay. The results of recombinant immunoblot assay testing were not consistent; therefore the analysis of the patients' data was based on anti-hepatitis C virus enzyme-linked immunoassay results. Patients with chronic hepatitis B with anti-hepatitis C virus were more likely to be cirrhotic (44% vs. 21%) and to have decompensated liver disease (24% vs. 6%). Hepatitis B virus replication appeared to be suppressed in patients with both infections as measured by hepatitis B virus-associated DNA polymerase activity (mean = 2,055 vs. 2,555 cpm). Human immunodeficiency virus infection was more common in the anti-hepatitis C virus positive group (36% vs. 11%). Thus hepatitis C virus appears to suppress hepatitis B virus replication and to cause more severe liver disease in patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. 
The tissue origin of low back pain and sciatica: a report of pain response to tissue stimulation during operations on the lumbar spine using local anesthesia. In an effort to define the origin of low back pain and sciatica, 193 patients were carefully studied using progressive local anesthesia. These patients had surgery for herniated discs, spinal stenoses, or both. Various tissues were stimulated during the performance of these lumbar spinal operations. This article discusses our observations and the results of that study. 
Acquired Brown's syndrome associated with hypogammaglobulinemia. We describe a 10-year-old girl with hypogammaglobulinemia who presented initially with painless progressive diplopia on right upward gaze and associated tenderness in the area of the superior oblique tendon (Brown's syndrome). She was given prednisone (40 mg/day) with gradual improvement of her symptoms. Prednisone was tapered and her symptoms remained unchanged for 10 months. She then experienced rapid deterioration. Prednisone was reinstituted with similar improvement and then therapy was switched to naproxen. She remains with only slight diplopia on extreme upward gaze. 
Relation of stenosis morphology and clinical presentation to the procedural results of directional coronary atherectomy BACKGROUND. Directional coronary atherectomy has recently become available to treat coronary stenoses. This study was performed to determine the relation of patient characteristics and stenosis morphology to procedural outcome with directional coronary atherectomy to gain insight into which patients might be best treated with this device. METHODS AND RESULTS. Four hundred stenoses from 378 patients consecutively treated at six major referral institutions were analyzed. Angiographic data were assessed at a central angiographic laboratory using standardized morphological criteria and computer-assisted quantitative dimensional analyses. Procedural success was achieved in 87.8% of stenoses, and major ischemic complications (death, myocardial infarction, and emergency bypass surgery) occurred in 6.3% of patients. Lesion success and complications were closely correlated with recognized modified American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force lesion morphological criteria. Observed for type A stenoses were 93% success and 3% complication rates; for type B1 stenoses, 88% success and 6% complication rates; and for type B2 stenoses, 75% success and 13% complication rates, respectively. There were too few type C stenoses treated to analyze. Furthermore, multivariate testing demonstrated stenosis angulation (multivariate p less than 0.001), proximal tortuosity (p less than 0.001), decreased preatherectomy minimum lumen dimension (p = 0.032), and calcification (p = 0.041) to correlate independently with adverse outcome and complex, probably thrombus-associated stenoses to have a favorable outcome (p = 0.055). Operator experience (p = 0.020) and a history of restenosis (p = 0.022) also favorably influenced outcome. CONCLUSIONS. The procedural outcome of directional coronary atherectomy is highly associated with coronary stenosis morphology. Furthermore, after appropriate stratification for morphology and clinical presentation, overall atherectomy procedural outcome may be similar to that achieved with coronary angioplasty. However, specific subsets of patients may have relatively better outcome with either atherectomy or balloon angioplasty. 
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated diseases: a pathologist's perspective. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) are a useful diagnostic serologic marker for the most common forms of necrotizing vasculitis, provide a means of categorizing vasculitides so that diagnostically useful shared pathologic and clinical characteristics can be recognized, and offer insight into the pathogenesis of previously idiopathic diseases. ANCA-associated vasculitides can be categorized into a number of distinctive clinicopathologic categories, eg, Wegener's granulomatosis, Churg-Strauss syndrome, pulmonary renal syndrome, microscopic polyarteritis nodosa, leukocytoclastic angiitis, and necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis. At least the latter four syndromes can also be caused by other ANCA-negative immunopathogenic mechanisms, eg, immune complex deposition. Therefore, thorough diagnostic classification requires both an assessment of clinicopathologic category, as well as an assessment of immunopathologic category. Although different ANCA-associated vasculitic syndromes have distinctive clinical and pathologic features, all ANCA-associated vasculitides share a number of common pathologic features, ie, focal distribution, necrosis, and neutrophil infiltration. ANCA assays have very good sensitivity and specificity for ANCA-associated diseases, but the prevalence of these diseases in the patient population being analyzed must be taken into consideration when determining the predictive value of a test result. As with all serologic tests, ANCA results must be integrated with other clinical and pathologic data in order to reach the most accurate diagnostic conclusion. 
Arthropathy of the ankle in hemophilia. Seventy-five patients who had hemophilia were followed clinically and roentgenographically to assess the prevalence of hemarthrosis and the prevalence and severity of arthropathy of the ankle. The mean age of the patients at the time of follow-up was twenty-two years and seven months. The patients were divided into four age-groups: less than ten years (eleven patients), ten to nineteen years (twenty-one patients), twenty to thirty years (twenty-four patients), and more than thirty years (nineteen patients). Intra-articular bleeding occurred more frequently in the joints of the lower extremities than in the joints of the upper extremities. During the second decade of life, hemarthroses occurred more often in the ankle than in the knee. A history of recurrent bleeding into the ankle joint, chronic synovitis, and overgrowth of the medial portion of the distal tibial epiphysis was associated with an early onset of arthropathy. In older patients, compression arthrodesis of the ankle joint was helpful in eliminating pain, recurrent bleeding, and equinus deformity. 
Neurologic outcome after electroencephalographically proven neonatal seizures. Infants in whom neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal electroencephalographic (EEG) tracings were retrospectively examined to determine their global neurologic outcome and the specific frequency of epilepsy, development delay, and cerebral palsy. Perinatal and postnatal clinical and EEG variables were also examined for their relevance to the neurologic outcome. Forty infants with EEG documented seizures of diverse etiologies were studied. The 27 survivors were followed up at a mean of 31 months. The outcome was unfavorable in 70%. The rate of epilepsy was 56%, of developmental delay 67%, and of cerebral palsy 63%. The etiology of seizures was an important factor influencing the outcome. Other clinical factors that showed a significant relationship with global or specific aspects of the neurologic outcome included the age at the onset of seizures, birth weight, and neurologic examination results. The EEG parameters that significantly predicted the neurologic outcome were interictal EEG background, increased seizure frequency, and decreased seizure duration. 
Recognition of human 60 kD heat shock protein by mononuclear cells from patients with juvenile chronic arthritis. A postulated mechanism for autoimmune disorders is that the immunoreactivity develops against bacterial antigens which show a high degree of sequence homology with mammalian proteins. The mycobacterial 65 kD heat shock protein (hsp) has been implicated in several forms of arthritis. Substantial amounts of the human 60 kD homologue (hsp60) were produced by insertion of the gene into Escherichia coli. To investigate the hypothesis that T-cell reactivity is directed against the endogenous hsp, T-cell proliferation of synovial-fluid and peripheral-blood mononuclear cells in response to hsp60 was studied in samples from six patients with juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA) and nine adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). There was no T-lymphocyte proliferative response to purified fractions of hsp60 in mononuclear cells from RA patients or healthy children and young adults. However, both synovial-fluid and peripheral-blood mononuclear cells from JCA patients showed substantial proliferative responses. There was a significant correlation between the stimulation indices for human hsp60 and for mycobacterial hsp65 (r = 0.948, p less than 0.02). A similar correlation for hsp60 and mycobacterial hsp70 did not achieve significance. Immunohistochemistry showed that hsp65 and hsp70 homologues were expressed in the synovial membrane in these patients but not in controls. These findings suggest a sequence of events in which hsps become expressed during synovial inflammation and function as autoantigens. In JCA this may be manifested by specific T-cell reactivity which apparently is lost in the more bone-eroding and non-remitting adult disease. 
Involvement of neutrophils in postischaemic damage to the small intestine. Haemorrhagic mucosal lesions are produced during intestinal ischaemia and after reperfusion probably mediated by oxygen radicals. Oxygen radicals react with cell membrane lipids and induce cell damage by peroxidation and induce accumulation of polymorphonuclear leucocytes in the tissue. The aim of the study was to elucidate the involvement of polymorphonuclear leucocytes in post-ischaemic intestinal damage. Intestinal ischaemia was induced in cats by partial occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery. Samples from the small intestine were excised before and at the end of the two hour hypotensive period as well as 10 minutes and 60 minutes after reperfusion. Conjugated dienes, myeloperoxidase, and the purine metabolites were determined in the samples. The tissue was also examined histologically. Seven cats were treated before reperfusion with a monoclonal antibody (IB4) which inhibits leucocyte adherence to endothelial cells and its subsequent activation. After reperfusion myeloperoxidase activity increased and the ischaemic mucosal lesions worsened significantly. IB4 treatment prevented an increase in post-hypotensive myeloperoxidase activity and attenuated the normally observed severe mucosal lesions. We conclude that the severe post-ischaemic lesions are induced by polymorphonuclear leucocytes. Such mucosal injury may be appreciably reduced by blocking leucocyte adherence with IB4. 
Synchronous arytenoid and pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinoma. Neuroendocrine laryngeal carcinoid tumours are uncommon. The supraglottis is the main location of these tumours. Eighty-one cases have been reported in the world literature. We present the first case of a synchronous laryngeal and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour. 
Importance of left ventricular systolic function in the assessment of left ventricular diastolic function with Doppler transmitral flow velocity recording. To study the effect of left ventricular systolic function on the Doppler transmitral flow velocity pattern, Doppler echocardiographic variables were correlated with hemodynamic indexes in 11 control subjects and 58 patients with heart disease. All underwent cardiac catheterization performed with use of a Millar micromanometer. The time constant of left ventricular isovolumetric pressure decrease and left ventricular end-diastolic myocardial stiffness was calculated. The 58 patients were classified into two groups according to ejection fraction: group I (n = 30; ejection fraction greater than 55%) and group II (n = 28; ejection fraction less than 50%). Compared with the control subjects, patients in group I had impairment only of left ventricular relaxation (time constant 47 +/- 9 vs. 38 +/- 3 ms; p less than 0.01), whereas patients in group II had, in addition to impaired left ventricular relaxation (time constant 52 +/- 11 vs. 38 +/- 3 ms; p less than 0.01), increased preload, increased pulmonary capillary pressure (12 +/- 8 vs. 5 +/- 3 mm Hg; p less than 0.01) and increased myocardial stiffness (2,018 +/- 980 vs. 1,050 +/- 218 g/cm2; p less than 0.01). In group I, there was a significant partial correlation coefficient between the time constant and deceleration half-time (r = 0.54). In group II, a strong correlation existed between myocardial stiffness and peak atrial filling velocity (r = -0.71) and between myocardial stiffness and the ratio of peak atrial to peak rapid filling velocity (r = -0.71). 
A critical evaluation of new agents for the treatment of sepsis. OBJECTIVE - To evaluate new treatments directed against endotoxin, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and interleukin 1 for use in sepsis and related disorders (sepsis syndrome and septic shock). DATA SOURCES - Investigations of these treatments in animal models, healthy human volunteers, and patients with sepsis and related disorders. STUDY SELECTION - Particular attention was paid to studies of patients with sepsis and related disorders, especially randomized, double-blind, controlled trials. DATA EXTRACTION - Animal studies and investigations with human volunteers were judged by how closely the experimental model replicated the clinical disorder (sepsis). Patient trials were assessed by sample size and design. Results of all studies were used to evaluate the likelihood that a given treatment would reduce mortality. DATA SYNTHESIS - Direct comparison of E5 and HA-1A antibody studies is difficult because of differences in their design, definitions of shock, and methods of subgroup analysis. However, both antibodies improve outcome in some subgroups: E5 benefits patients with gram-negative infection (bacteremic or focal) who do not have refractory shock, and HA-1A benefits those with gram-negative bacteremia (regardless of whether shock is present) but not those with focal gram-negative infection. Two agents that may be beneficial in gram-positive and gram-negative infection are monoclonal antibodies to tumor necrosis factor alpha and receptor antagonists to interleukin 1. Preliminary results with both are reviewed. CONCLUSIONS - All three types of treatment may improve outcome in sepsis. The best results will probably be obtained with combination therapy that interrupts multiple points of the inflammatory cascade underlying sepsis. 
Islet amyloid polypeptide in proliferating pancreatic B cells during development, hyperplasia, and neoplasia in humans and mice. The occurrence of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) immunoreactivity was investigated in fetal pancreas, islet cell hyperplasia, and tumors in humans and mice. Transgenic mice heritably developing endocrine tumors of the pancreas (AVP/SV40, Rip 1 Tag2/Rip2PyST1 and Glu2-Tag strains) were used as murine models of islet cells proliferative disease. In the mouse, IAPP immunoreactivity was found in B cells at embryonic day 12 (E12), paralleling the onset of insulin immunoreactivity. In hyperplastic/dysplastic islets and in B-cell tumors of transgenic mice (n = 16), IAPP immunoreactivity was localized consistently to insulin-immunoreactive cells. Ultrastructural single- and double-immunogold labeling of transgenic mice B-cell tumors (n = 3) showed insulin and IAPP to be colocalized in beta granules. In human fetuses, IAPP immunoreactivity was found in insulin-immunoreactive B cells, but at a later gestational age than the onset of insulin immunoreactivity. In pancreatic specimens of infantile/neonatal persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia (11 cases) and in pancreatic endocrine tumors (21 cases, 10 of which were functioning insulinomas), IAPP immunoreactivity was found consistently in insulin-immunoreactive B cells. Congo-red-positive amyloid deposits present in tumors also were IAPP immunoreactive. Ultrastructural single and double immunogold labeling of infantile/neonatal persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia cases (n = 3) and functioning insulinomas (n = 2) showed IAPP and insulin to be colocalized in beta granules. In addition, IAPP immunoreactivity was observed in amyloidlike fibrils. These findings indicate that IAPP is a constitutive component of B cells. Possible relationships between IAPP and insulin expression and interspecies differences are suggested and discussed. 
Interethnic differences in pain perception. While several investigators have reported relationships between ethnic background and expression of pain, such relationships are in fact highly problematical. Few studies of pain and ethnicity have used quantitative measures of pain combined with multivariate methods of data analysis. Most have focussed on populations which, unlike many in the United States today, are characterized by highly distinct ethnic groups. The study reported here interviewed 536 persons recently treated for forms of cancer known to cause significant pain. Pain was assessed using standard, well validated instruments, including Graphic Rating Scales anchored in several alternative time-frames and the McGill Pain Questionnaire. The study took place in an area with a low proportion of recent immigrants and only small concentrations of distinct ethnic minorities. No statistically significant relationships were observed between ethnic identity and measures of pain sensation. However, pain described in affective terms according to the McGill Pain Questionnaire did vary among ethnicities. This observation suggests that cultures associated with specific ethnic identities still condition individual expression of pain despite the high degree of assimilation that has occurred among ethnic groups in the United States. 
Repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. A statewide experience. The results of elective treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms are excellent in many institutions. To our knowledge, however, no study has compared the results in a large geographic area in which patients were treated by a variety of surgeons and hospitals. We studied the results of repairing abdominal aortic aneurysms for all Medicare recipients during a single year in Kentucky. One hundred thirty-six operations were performed by 52 surgeons in 31 hospitals. Overall operative mortality was 18%; elective and emergency operative mortality rates were 6% and 49%, respectively. Advancing age did not affect outcome, but mortality due to ruptured aneurysms was higher in smaller hospitals than in larger hospitals. The low mortality for elective repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms in an elderly population by numerous surgeons in divergent hospitals is a strong indication for its liberal use compared with the high mortality and morbidity of emergency surgery. 
Gastrocolic fistula with pyloric stenosis and benign gastric ulcer. We have reported a case of gastrocolic fistula with gastric outlet obstruction as a complication of benign gastric ulcer. The single-stage surgical procedure described resulted in a successful outcome. Benign gastric ulcer currently appears to be the most prevalent cause of gastrocolic fistula. 
Anticardiolipin and antineutrophil antibodies in giant cell arteritis. IgG anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) were found in a patient with Takayasu's arteritis and then in 11 of 22 patients with temporal arteritis (TA) studied prospectively. In comparison IgG aCL were found in only one of 18 elderly controls with rheumatoid arthritis and one of 47 healthy elderly controls. In TA IgG aCL were more frequent in those with acute disease (8/12), in those with an accompanying history of polymyalgia rheumatica (9/13), p less than 0.05); and levels normalized with corticosteroid treatment. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (c-ANCA) were present in one patient with TA who had no systemic disease. 
Histological changes in free jejunal grafts used in pharyngeal reconstruction. A histological study was performed of biopsies taken from jejunal free grafts used in pharyngeal reconstruction. The main findings were a decreased crypt/villi ratio and a mild chronic inflammatory infiltrate. There was no evidence of metaplastic or dysplastic transformation. 
Atrial regulation of intravascular volume: observations on the tachycardia-polyuria syndrome. The atria, strategically located at the junction of the venous and arterial circulation, contain a network of neural and humoral structures by which they sense and regulate intravascular volume. Atrial receptors, most commonly consisting of complex unencapsulated nerve endings discharging into myelinated vagal fibers, are located in the intrapericardial portions of the caval and pulmonary veins and the adjacent atrial walls. Receptor activation by atrial distension results in increased afferent vagal fiber discharge, which in turn leads to tachycardia (Bainbridge's reflex) and decreased renal sympathetic nerve activity, renal vasomotor tone, and antidiuretic hormone activity. In addition, atrial distension also releases ANF, a peptide with potent diuretic, natriuretic, and vasorelaxant actions. The combined effect of these neurohumoral changes is the production of a large hypotonic diuresis. In the clinical setting the volume-regulating role of the atria is demonstrated by the tachycardia-polyuria syndrome. Laboratory and clinical evidence points to the activation of atrial neurohumoral mechanisms in response to atrial distension as the mediators of the polyuria that often accompanies paroxysmal tachycardias. The involvement of these mechanisms in other forms of cardiac congestion and the capability to easily measure in the blood an index of atrial distension, namely ANF, provide the opportunity to elucidate the pathophysiology and hence to open new therapeutic avenues in many cardiac disorders. 
Evolution of insulin secretory response to glucose by perifused islets from lean (FA/FA) rats chronically infused with glucose. Chronic infusion of nondiabetic rats with glucose for up to 7 days modified the insulin secretory response by subsequently perifused islets. Thus, on the 1st day of infusion with 40% glucose, the islets responded to 16.7 mM glucose with a 3.9-fold increase in insulin release during the first 10 min with no significant change during the second-phase insulin output compared with the control group. On the 2nd day, there was a 2-fold enhancement of insulin release during the initial 10 min of stimulation, the second phase being a similar to control islets. On the 5th day of infusion, the pattern of insulin release was not significantly different from the control group. After 7 day of infusion, there was a 46% decrease in first-phase and a 33% decrease in second-phase insulin response to glucose. The response to 10 mM arginine plus 5 mM glucose was not modified by chronic glucose infusion. Priming experiments indicate that islets from rats infused for 7 days were not able to recover the normal pattern of secretion in vitro. Islets from 7-day glucose-infused rats contained 75% more protein and had a significantly higher insulin content than control islet, suggesting that insulin synthesis is not involved in the loss of the response observed. Glucose metabolism by the islets was modified by glucose infusion with a significant increase in glucose utilization and no changes in glucose oxidation, suggesting that alterations in mitochondrial oxidative events are involved in the phenomenon of desensitization. 
Possible metastatic routes via portacaval shunts in renal adenocarcinoma with liver metastasis. Renal adenocarcinoma findings from autopsies on patients with and without liver metastasis (635 and 936 patients, respectively) were investigated concerning the mode of metastasis. The patients with liver metastasis showed a significantly higher frequency of metastases to the lungs, lymph nodes, contralateral kidney, adrenals, pancreas, spleen, peritoneum, and intestines; in the female patients, those with liver metastasis had a higher frequency of metastasis to the ovary and uterus than patients without liver metastasis. Some of the metastases to those organs are explainable by venous spread via portacaval shunts as well as ordinary hematogenous or lymphogenous spread, especially, those to the contralateral kidney, adrenals, spleen, intestines, or ovary. 
Wound complications after modified radical mastectomy compared with tylectomy with axillary lymph node dissection. Tylectomy with axillary lymph node dissection and radiotherapy (TAD) has become an accepted treatment for early breast cancer and has been shown to result in equal 5- and 8-year survival when compared with modified radical mastectomy (MRM). In order to determine the safety of TAD with respect to wound complications and to identify potential risk factors, we reviewed the charts of 560 patients undergoing MRM (n = 387) and TAD (n = 173) at Virginia Mason Medical Center from 1983 through 1989. The incidence of infection, seroma, hematoma, and epidermolysis were compared, and obesity, age 60 years or older, smoking, antibiotics, and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors. There were more wound complications in the MRM group versus the TAD group (49% versus 35%; p less than 0.01), specifically more seromas (29% versus 18%; p less than 0.01) and epidermolysis (18% versus 0%). In the MRM group, age 60 years or older was associated with seroma (p less than 0.01) and smoking was associated with epidermolysis (p less than 0.01). In the TAD group, obesity was associated with infection. In both groups, volume of drainage from closed suction wound drains greater than 30 mL in the 24 hours prior to removal of the last drain was associated with seroma (p less than 0.05). 
Long-term results of choledochoduodenostomy in the treatment of choledocholithiasis: assessment of 225 cases. During a 10-year period 2610 patients were operated on for biliary lithiasis; in 225 (8.6 per cent) cases the operation concluded with a choledochoduodenostomy. The commonest preoperative diagnosis (62.2 per cent) in these 225 patients was choledocholithiasis; 30 patients had previously had a cholecystectomy. After choledochoduodenostomy, 4.0 per cent of patients had an intra-abdominal complication; six patients developed an intra-abdominal abscess and three developed an external biliary fistula. Four patients (1.8 per cent) died, three from pulmonary complications and one from a biliary fistula. After a mean follow-up period of 4.6 years, 71.5 per cent of patients were asymptomatic. The remainder suffered from dyspepsia (15.1 per cent), colicky pain (8.7 per cent) or episodes of cholangitis (4.7 per cent). Endoscopy in the symptomatic patients allowed the following conclusions: (a) no patient with dyspepsia had a problem at the anastomosis; (b) 27 per cent of those with colic had anastomotic stenosis or the sump syndrome; and (c) all patients with cholangitis had anastomotic stenosis and residual calculi. 
Adequacy of preparation for barium enema among elderly outpatients. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether outpatients 75 years of age or older have a higher rate of inadequate bowel preparation for barium enema and of complications associated with the preparation and the test than patients aged 55 to 74 years. DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey. SETTING: Radiology department in a teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Patients 55 years or older referred for a barium enema from March to August 1988. OUTCOME MEASURES: All films were reviewed independently by a study radiologist blind to the staff radiologist's report. Patients were interviewed by telephone within several days after the test to assess the occurrence of problems during the preparation or the test. MAIN RESULTS: Of the 213 patients assessed 72 were excluded: 43 refused to participate or could not be contacted, 16 had previously undergone colonic surgery, and 13 were excluded for other reasons. The remaining 141 patients were separated into three age groups: those 55 to 64 years (46 patients), those 65 to 74 (47) and those 75 or older (48). In 104 cases (74%) the bowel had been prepared adequately; there was no significant difference between the three groups with regard to the adequacy of preparation. The incidence of problems reported by the patients did not differ significantly between the groups. CONCLUSIONS: Outpatients aged 75 years or more are no more likely than those aged 55 to 74 to have problems with bowel preparation or the barium enema itself. Age should not be a criterion for exclusion from barium enema. To try to lower the rate of poor bowel preparation clinicians and radiologists should consider counselling patients more carefully about the importance of proper preparation. Also, the current method of preparation could be examined to determine whether simple changes would significantly improve colon cleanliness. 
Transmission of hepatitis C virus by organ transplantation BACKGROUND. Liver disease is a frequent and major complication after organ transplantation. We sought to determine whether hepatitis C virus (HCV) is transmitted by organ transplantation and whether it causes post-transplantation liver disease. METHODS. Serum samples from all cadaver organ donors to the New England Organ Bank between 1986 and 1990 were screened retrospectively for antibodies to HCV (anti-HCV) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We reviewed the hospital records of all recipients of organs from anti-HCV-positive donors for evidence of liver disease. Serum samples from recipients obtained before transplantation and during follow-up were analyzed for anti-HCV. RESULTS. Of 716 organ donors, 13 (1.8 percent) were positive for anti-HCV. Their organs (19 kidneys, 6 hearts, and 4 livers) went to 29 recipients. Non-A, non-B hepatitis developed after transplantation in 14 of the 29 (48 percent), for a prevalence 7.4 times the 6.5 percent prevalence after transplantation from untested donors that was previously reported by two institutions in the organ bank (P less than 0.0001). The liver disease began a mean of 3.8 months after transplantation and became chronic in 12 patients; the other 2 had subfulminant hepatic failure. Liver disease was more frequent in the patients who had received antilymphocyte preparations (P = 0.04). HCV was the cause of the post-transplantation liver disease in 12 of the 13 recipients (92 percent) for whom serum samples were available. Anti-HCV was detected by ELISA in eight and enzyme immunoassay in one; in three others, HCV RNA was detected by polymerase chain reaction in serum samples obtained after transplantation. CONCLUSIONS. Organ transplantation can transmit hepatitis C. This raises serious questions about the continued acceptance of organs from donors positive for anti-HCV. 
Prostaglandin F2 alpha inhibits the ammoniagenic response to acute acidosis in LLC-PK1 cells. A kidney epithelial cell line, LLC-PK1, which does not synthesize prostaglandins, provides an ideal in vitro model system to investigate the effect of prostaglandins in the regulation of renal ammoniagenesis. Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated significant increases in glutamine-dependent ammonia and alanine production by rocked cultures of LLC-PK1 cells subjected to either acute metabolic or respiratory acidosis. In the study presented here, experiments were conducted to investigate the role of prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in the response of ammonia metabolism to acute metabolic acidosis by LLC-PK1 cells. A low dose of PGF2 alpha (0.1 ng/mL) dramatically inhibited the stimulatory effect of a low pH (pH 6.8) on ammonia production. In contrast, the inhibition of cytosolically generated alanine was less dramatic and averaged only 20% of the effect on ammonia production. Furthermore, PGF2 alpha increased cellular alpha-ketoglutarate concentration, suggesting an increase in intramitochondrial pH. Thus, the cellular mechanism of PGF2 alpha action appears to involve either interference with the cytosolic pH signal or its translation to the intramitochondrial compartment. The inhibitory response of PGF2 alpha on pH-stimulated ammoniagenesis was progressively lost at higher concentrations. Both low-dose (0.1 ng/mL) and high-dose (10 ng/mL) PGF2 alpha had no significant effect on the basal rates of ammonia and alanine production at pH 7.4. PGE2, on the other hand, did not exhibit any significant response on ammonia or alanine production at either pH 6.8 or 7.4 when given in a wide range of doses. 
Treatment of children with Down syndrome and growth retardation with recombinant human growth hormone. The effect of recombinant human growth hormone on children with Down syndrome who had growth retardation and microcephaly was examined. Thirteen children with trisomy 21 without congenital heart disease who were short for age (-1.19 to -3.5 standard deviation score) and microcephalic (-1.58 to -6.60 standard deviation score) were given recombinant human growth hormone, 0.1 mg/kg subcutaneously, 3 days a week for 1 year. Before treatment, peak serum growth hormone concentrations were less than 10 micrograms/L after levodopa and clonidine stimulation tests in five patients, after clonidine in three patients, and after levodopa in three patients. Three patients had nocturnal integrated growth hormone concentrations of 0.5, 1.5 and 0.65 micrograms/L, respectively. The mean growth rate before treatment was 5.4 +/- 1.6 cm/yr and increased to 12.2 +/- 3.2 cm/yr (p less than 0.001) after 12 months of recombinant human growth hormone treatment. The mean head circumference standard deviation score before treatment was -3.1 +/- 1.3 and increased to -2.3 +/- 1.2 (p less than 0.001) at 12 months. Bone age before and 1 year after treatment increased in correspondence with chronologic age. Plasma hemoglobin A1c concentration was normal during treatment with recombinant human growth hormone. The mean plasma concentrations of insulin-like growth factor I at baseline and at 12 months were 0.54 +/- 0.19 U/ml and 1.25 +/- 0.97 U/ml, respectively (p less than 0.02). We conclude that recombinant human growth hormone therapy can result in a significant increase in annual growth rate and head circumference in children with Down syndrome, without significant side effects. 
A pilot study of stanozolol for advanced breast carcinoma. Eighteen patients with advanced metastatic carcinoma of the breast who had been previously treated with other hormone therapy were treated with stanozolol in a pilot study to assess its efficacy and toxicity. In a heavily pretreated population of patients with advanced breast cancer, three patients (16.6%) had partial responses (PR) and five patients (27.7%) had stable disease (SD). Toxicity was far less than that expected with androgen therapy. Stanozolol should be investigated in large groups of patients to establish its role more fully in the management of metastatic breast carcinoma. 
Cytochrome c oxidase deficiency with acute onset and rapid recovery. A 7-year-old girl with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency who had no neurologic deficits in infancy suddenly developed ophthalmoplegia, ptosis, and respiratory arrest. She recovered almost completely 80 days after onset, suggesting that acute onset and rapid remission are observed in patients with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. It is also possible that early initiation of therapy in cytochrome c oxidase deficiency with coenzyme Q10 may hasten and enhance the therapeutic effect. 
Cutaneous botryomycosis. We report four cases of cutaneous botryomycosis. The predisposing factors included alcoholism, diabetes, and trauma. Clinically, the patients had nodules, suppurative plaques, or ulcers. In two cases, Staphylococcus aureus was cultured. In one case Neisseria species was cultured and in another a coagulase-negative Staphylococcus and Corynebacterium species were the only organism cultured. All patients responded to systemic antibiotic therapy. 
Assessment of left atrial appendage function by transesophageal echocardiography. Implications for the development of thrombus. BACKGROUND. The predilection of the left atrial appendage (LAA) for thrombus formation has long been known. METHODS AND RESULTS. We prospectively studied the two-dimensional echocardiographic and Doppler patterns of LAA function in 82 patients by transesophageal echocardiography. In the 63 patients in sinus rhythm, LAA area was measured during LAA diastole at the onset of the electrocardiographic (ECG) P wave (LAAmax) and after LAA systole at the ECG R wave (LAAmin) and LAA ejection fraction was calculated as (LAAmax-LAAmin)/LAAmax; peak Doppler velocity was recorded from the LAA outlet. The 58 patients in sinus rhythm without LAA thrombus were grouped according to left atrial size on transthoracic echocardiography; 39 patients had a left atrial size of less than 40 mm (group 1) and 19 had a left atrial size of 40 mm or greater (group 2). Five patients in sinus rhythm had LAA thrombus. In the 19 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter LAAmax was measured independent of the ECG; three of these patients had LAA spontaneous contrast, four had thrombus, and one had both. Patients in sinus rhythm without LAA thrombus demonstrated a characteristic pattern of a contractile LAA apex and a noncontractile base with color flow and pulsed Doppler evidence of LAA emptying that coincided with the P wave. Patients in sinus rhythm with LAA thrombus had a mean +/- SD LAAmax (8.0 +/- 1.5 cm2) larger than that in group 1 (5.0 +/- 1.9 cm2) (p less than 0.01) but not group 2 (6.7 +/- 3.1 cm2), LAAmin (6.5 +/- 1.0 cm2) larger than that in both group 1 (2.3 +/- 1.5 cm2) and group 2 (4.2 +/- 2.7 cm2) (p less than 0.01), and LAA ejection fraction (17 +/- 11%) and LAA velocity (0.24 +/- 0.10 m/sec) less than those in both group 1 (55 +/- 21% and 0.48 +/- 0.24 m/sec, respectively) and group 2 (45 +/- 27% and 0.46 +/- 0.24 m/sec, respectively) (p less than 0.01). Patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter with LAA spontaneous contrast and/or thrombus had LAAmax (10.4 +/- 6.6 cm2) greater than that in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter without LAA contrast and/or thrombus (6.8 +/- 3.0 cm2) (p less than 0.05). The LAA appeared as a static pouch in seven of eight of the former compared with in two of 11 of the latter. When attempted, Doppler demonstrated a recognizable fibrillatory LAA outflow velocity pattern in none of three in the former versus four of seven in the latter group. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that the LAA has a characteristic pattern of emptying in sinus rhythm. LAA thrombus formation in sinus rhythm and atrial fibrillation is associated with both poor LAA contraction and LAA dilation. 
A unique bone-like variant of alkaline phosphatase. The authors describe an unusual variant of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) discovered in a patient with a 90-fold increase in serum ALP. The variant ALP was indistinguishable from the bone isoenzyme when subjected to chemical inhibition, heat inactivation, lectin precipitation, and routine electrophoresis. However, treatment with neuraminidase produced a marked decrease in the ALP variant's electrophoretic mobility and a reduction in its molecular weight. A bone marrow biopsy revealed metastatic infiltration of the bone marrow by adenocarcinoma of the prostate accompanied by a remarkable amount of new bone formation, suggesting a bone origin for the unusual isoenzyme. The authors believe this to be the first report of an ALP variant with these properties. 
Migraine and epilepsy with infantile onset and electroencephalographic findings of occipital spike-wave complexes. An EEG finding of temporo-occipital or temporo-parieto-occipital spike-wave complexes, suppressed by eye opening, coexisting with classical migraine, was observed in 14 children; in 13 of these patients, seizures were present. Classical migraine, visual phenomena and seizures coexisted in different clinical patterns. 
Treatment of advanced-stage Hodgkin's disease: alternating noncrossresistant MOPP/CABS is not superior to MOPP. One hundred twenty-five assessable patients with advanced-stage Hodgkin's disease were randomized to receive mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP) or MOPP alternating with lomustine (CCNU), doxorubicin, bleomycin, and streptozocin (CABS). The median follow-up is 7.7 years. The complete response rate was 60 of 66 MOPP-treated patients (91%) and 54 of 59 MOPP/CABS-treated patients (92%) (difference not significant). The level of the disease-free survival curve at longest follow-up is 65% for MOPP-treated patients and 72% for MOPP/CABS-treated patients (difference not significant). The overall survival at 12 years is projected at 68% for MOPP-treated patients and 54% for MOPP/CABS-treated patients (difference not significant). Thus, there were no significant differences in efficacy between MOPP and MOPP/CABS. However, MOPP/CABS was more emetogenic than MOPP, and four MOPP/CABS-treated patients went on to develop secondary acute leukemia. No MOPP-treated patients developed leukemia. High initial erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and high platelet counts adversely affected treatment outcome. MOPP-treated patients who received greater than 81% of the projected dose intensity of vincristine over the first three cycles had significantly improved disease-free survival rates over those receiving less than 81%. MOPP/CABS-treated patients who received greater than 82% of the projected dose intensity of vincristine had significantly better overall survival than those who received less than 82%. Disease-free survival on both arms was significantly better in patients who received greater than 84% of the projected dose intensity of all agents. The effect of dose intensity was particularly apparent in patients with poor prognostic factors where those who received greater than 84% of the projected dose intensity of all agents had significantly improved disease-free and overall survival. 
In-vitro DNA synthesis of keratinocytes in normal human skin, psoriasis, seborrhoeic keratosis, Bowen's disease and basal cell carcinoma. The DNA-synthesizing cells in benign and malignant keratotic diseases including psoriasis, seborrhoeic keratosis, Bowen's disease and basal cell carcinoma were studied. Cells in S-phase were labelled after small pieces of the lesions were incubated in tissue culture medium that contained 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). The labelling of DNA was analysed using the labelling index and pattern. Although the malignant diseases tended to show a higher DNA labelling index, neither this nor the loss of polarity alone was associated with malignancy. However, a higher DNA labelling index together with a loss of polarity was characteristic for malignancy. 
Disorders of the hair and scalp in children. A wide variety of disorders involving the scalp and hair exist that may be encountered in the pediatric and adolescent population. An approach to the differential diagnosis of many of these conditions can be considered once the patient is found to have either alopecia, scaling, or tumors of the scalp. Certainly other causes of scalp or hair disease exist but the more common disorders can be appropriately considered in this manner. 
Interactions between calcium channel blockers and the anticonvulsants carbamazepine and phenytoin. We describe a retrospective analysis of the frequency of adverse interactions between calcium channel blockers and anticonvulsant drugs (phenytoin and carbamazepine) in a series of 43 patients. Ten patients receiving carbamazepine and three patients receiving phenytoin exhibited symptoms or signs of toxicity. Toxicity occurred with both diltiazem and verapamil, but not with nifedipine. These results emphasize the need for careful clinical and laboratory monitoring of patients receiving both classes of medication. 
Early enteral nutrition after brain injury by percutaneous endoscopic gastrojejunostomy. Twenty-seven patients in a series of 52 patients with severe brain injury (Glasgow Coma Scale score less than or equal to 8) underwent insertion of intestinal feeding tubes at the bedside. The technique required endoscopy with externalization of gastric and intestinal ports through the abdominal wall. Feedings were begun through the intestinal tube with Vital HN within 4 hours of its insertion with simultaneous gastric decompression via the gastric tube. Tubes were placed 2.3 (range 0-5) days after injury. Full caloric intake (3020 kcal/24 h) was achieved by 6.8 (range 2-8) days after injury to 4.2 (range 2-8) days after placement of the feeding tube. Only 1 patient failed to tolerate feedings immediately after tube insertion. Technical inability to insert the tubes occurred in 3 patients and the intestinal tube migrated into the stomach in 2 patients; diarrhea occurred in only 1 patient. With this technique, it was possible to deliver an average daily intake of 1.2 g/kg of protein in 8-day balance periods beginning at the time of tube insertion. These data included 3- to 4-day periods in which feedings were steadily increased. In 16 patients in whom nitrogen balance was measured for 8-day balance periods, average nitrogen balance was -5.7 (range -11.3 to +3.5) g/24 h. The reduction in nitrogen loss by this technique appears equal to or superior to either gastric feeding or TPN. This technique provides the ability to enterally feed a high proportion of brain-injured patients (except those in barbiturate coma) very early after injury using a bedside procedure. 
Five-day bismuth-free triple therapy for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori and reduction of duodenal ulcer relapse. Previous studies have demonstrated that the eradication of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is associated with a significant reduction of the rate of duodenal ulcer (DU) relapse. The aim of this study was to assess the long-term effect of a bismuth-free triple therapy on the eradication of H. pylori and reduction of DU relapse. After informed consent, 61 patients with endoscopically proven DU and H. pylori infection detected on 14C-urea breath test (BT) were included in the study. All patients received a combination of furazolidone, amoxicillin, and metronidazole, three times a day, for 5 days, in addition to eventual classical antiulcer agents prescribed by their attending physicians. BT was repeated after an interval of at least 60 days to evaluate H. pylori eradication. Endoscopy and another BT were performed again at 6.5 months after therapy to detect possible recurrences. Forty-eight patients completed the trial: 26 (54%) patients were negative for H. pylori at 6.5 months after the end of treatment, and 22 (46%) persisted H. pylori positive. Ninety-two percent of the patients in whom the bacteria were eradicated showed endoscopically healed ulcers and were asymptomatic, and two that were symptomatic presented only occasional pain not requiring therapy. Among the 22 patients who persisted H. pylori positive, six (27%) showed endoscopically active ulcers (p = 0.012) and eight (36%) patients continued to be symptomatic (p less than 0.01), and were still using antiulcer drugs (p = 0.002) 6.5 months after treatment. It is concluded that combined treatment with furazolidone, amoxicillin, and metronidazole for 5 days represents a well-tolerated, inexpensive, and effective therapeutic regime for the eradication of H. pylori and abolition of DU relapse in more than 50% of the patients during a follow-up period of 6.5 months. 
Azygos vein laceration due to blunt trauma. The azygos vein ascends along the thoracic spine through the mediastinum and drains into the superior vena cava at the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra. Fracture-dislocation of the mid-thoracic spine, as a result of blunt thoracic trauma, can tear the azygos vein. Four such fatal cases (three motor vehicle accidents and one fall) were studied, only one of which was recognized prior to death. The vein can also be torn, in the absence of skeletal injuries, by horizontal acceleration/deceleration forces. The pathologist must consider azygos vein laceration as a possible cause of either hemothorax or hemomediastinum or both in a victim of a blunt chest trauma, if that individual had persistent hypotension during the few hours before death and no identifiable source of hemorrhage can be found postmortem in sites such as the heart, great vessels, lung, and chest wall. A fracture-dislocation of the thoracic spine may not necessarily be present. Azygos vein laceration seems to be an uncommon cause of hemothorax and hemomediastinum; however, this injury is probably more frequent than is implied by the few cases described in the medical literature. 
Indium-111-labeled B72.3 monoclonal antibody in the detection and staging of breast cancer: a phase I study. Sixteen patients with primary breast cancer were studied with a pancarcinoma monoclonal antibody B72.3, an IgG1 molecule directed against tumor-associated glycoprotein (TAG-72) present in several tumors. Five millicuries of 111In was used to label 0.2 mg (six patients), or 2 mg (six patients), or 20 mg using the site-directed bifunctional DTPA method (at carbohydrate moiety). Digital, planar, and SPECT images were obtained at 2, 48, 72 and 96 hr when possible. HAMA levels were obtained before the Mab infusion and at 1, 3, and 6 wk postinfusion. Fourteen of 14 known primary breast lesions were detected by imaging (100% sensitivity). Two fibrocystic lesions were negative. Seven of 14 patients had lymph node metastases by histologic methods, but all were missed by radioimmunoscintigraphy. Tumor uptake of Mab ranged 0.00054%-0.0038% of the ID/g. The tumor-to-normal breast tissue ratio was 4.3 +/- 0.91 (mean +/- s.e.m.). Lymph nodes localization of 111In-B72.3 by tissue analysis was similar for tumor-bearing and normal nodes (0.0039 +/- 0.0023 versus 0.0025 +/- 0.0019). Pharmacokinetics revealed mean plasma half-life of 33.3-41.2 hr for the different doses. There was no statistical difference between any of the pharmacokinetic parameters of different doses. HAMA was positive only in 17% of the patients. The study suggests that this antibody has 100% sensitivity for primary breast cancers, but very poor detection rate of metastatic lesions in axillary lymph nodes; thus making it of questionable value in the initial staging process of this disease. 
Prolactin and cortisol levels in various paroxysmal disorders in childhood. The hormonal response of the anterior pituitary to various epileptic and nonepileptic events in children was studied. Postictal serum prolactin and cortisol levels were measured in 17 children with epilepsy, 23 with febrile seizures, and 10 with syncope or breath-holding spells. The levels were compared with those of 30 children with nonspecific fever, and 23 afebrile children served as control subjects. Significantly higher (P less than .01) prolactin levels (26.5 +/- 3.3 ng/mL, mean +/- SEM) were found in the epileptic group, compared with levels in children with febrile seizures (13.2 +/- 1.0 ng/mL), fever (11.2 +/- 0.9 ng/mL), syncope (7.3 +/- 0.9 ng/mL), and the control group (7.9 +/- 0.6 ng/mL). In contrast, serum cortisol levels were nonspecifically elevated in the epileptics and patients with febrile seizures or fever only. These findings suggest that elevated prolactin levels may be found after epileptic seizures and much less after febrile seizures, but not after breath-holding spells or syncopal events. Cortisol secretion appears to be nonselectively triggered by all stressful events, such as epileptic and febrile seizures, and fever. Elevated prolactin levels (greater than 15 ng/mL) associated with seizures may help in differentiating epileptic from febrile seizures or syncope. 
Cytogenetic abnormalities associated with renal cell carcinoma. Cytogenetic analysis was performed on 23 renal cell carcinomas (21 sporadic and 2 associated with von Hippel-Lindau's disease). Clonal chromosomal abnormalities were found in 19 of 21 of the sporadic tumors. The most frequent abnormalities were a loss or rearrangement of material in 3p (11 of 21 cases) or an extra chromosome 7 (7 of 21 cases). Correlation between specific chromosomal abnormalities and clinical presentation was absent with the exception of trisomy 7 and -Y, which occurred only in patients more than 60 years old. An increasing number of cytogenetic abnormalities were associated with a greater likelihood of renal vein and/or capsule involvement. Both patients with von Hippel-Lindau's disease had tumors with a normal karyotype. 
Uncemented total hip arthroplasty. Prospective analysis of the tri-lock femoral component. Fifty consecutive hip disease patients (56 hips) with total hip arthroplasties (THA) utilized the uncemented Tri-Lock femoral component. Forty-five patients (51 hips) were followed for an average of 46 months (range, 24-66). Forty-two patients (47 hips) were followed with clinical examination and roentgenographs, three (four hips) by telephone interview, four (four hips) were deceased, and one (one hip) was lost to follow-up evaluation. The diagnoses included osteoarthritis (30 hips), avascular necrosis (11 hips), juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (two hips), and degenerative joint disease secondary to childhood hip disorder (four hips). Of 47 hips, 34 were graded excellent, seven good, three fair, and three poor using the Harris hip score. The incidence of thigh pain was 19% at one year, but only 6% at final follow-up evaluation. Limp persisted in 19% of the patients. Of the three patients with four hips contacted by telephone, two had slight pain and two had no pain. The roentgenographic results found an alarming 38% incidence of varus shift of the components, relative to their preoperative position. The presence of a varus shift did not adversely affect the clinical results. Early experience with the Tri-Lock femoral component shows results comparable to those reported in the literature. The high incidence of femoral component shift, presumably because of geometry of the stem is of concern. Longer follow-up evaluation will be necessary to determine the fate of these uncemented THA operations. 
Modulation of venous tone in heart failure. Venodilatation may be an important property in drugs used to treat heart failure. Deductions about venous tone from standard hemodynamic studies may be misleading since filling pressures may be reduced by improved left ventricular function. To study the venodilator properties of drugs, we have modified a radionuclide blood pool method and shown that venous volume is increased by 10% after glyceryl trinitrate but is unchanged after the arteriolar dilator hydralazine. In patients with congestive cardiac failure, the calcium channel blocker, felodipine, causes a marked reduction in systemic vascular resistance and left ventricular filling pressures, but venous volume remains unchanged. In a similar group of patients comparable arterial and central effects are seen after the administration of captopril, but venous volume increases by 16%, and this increased venous volume is sustained after 3 months of long-term treatment. Milrinone has been used to treat both acute and chronic heart failure. As expected of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, it exhibits inotropic properties in animals and humans and also causes arterial vasodilatation. We have studied its effects on venous tone in 10 patients with severe heart failure (New York Heart Association classes III to IV). Milrinone was given intravenously at a loading dose of 50 micrograms/kg followed by an infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg/min. After treatment, cardiac index, which was measured by thermodilution, increased from 1.8 +/- 0.48 to 2.3 +/- 0.65 L/min/m2 (p less than 0.001); pulmonary artery wedge pressure fell from 23 +/- 6 to 11 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than 0.001); and systemic vascular resistance index decreased from 4296 to 3168 dynes.sec.cm-5/m2 (p less than 0.001). 
Suprahyoid pharyngotomy for oropharynx cancer including the tongue base. Suprahyoid pharyngotomy has been utilized as the standard approach to tongue base cancer not involving the larynx or mandible for the last 6 years at the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Boston, Mass. Review of 15 patients revealed that all had advanced disease (stage III and stage IV); 14 cases involved the tongue base, and one was on the posterior pharyngeal wall. By following the hyoepiglottic ligament, precise entry into the vallecula was routine. No injuries of vital neurovascular structures or compromised tumor margins were present; one tracheotomy was performed. Primary closure without the use of flaps was accomplished in 14 of 15 patients. No locoregional recurrences were found, with a median follow-up of 25 months. However, two patients died of another unrelated cancer, and two patients died of a myocardial infarction unrelated to their surgery. Suprahyoid pharyngotomy is a familiar approach often utilized during laryngectomy. In our experience, it provides excellent exposure of the oropharynx, can be combined with a transoral approach to avoid mandibulotomy without precluding this option, allows for simple reconstruction, and has a low complication rate. 
Mucosal humoral immune response to Helicobacter pylori in patients with duodenitis. The humoral immune response to Helicobacter pylori infection in the duodenum has been investigated by short-term in vitro culture, ELISA, and immunoblotting techniques. H. pylori IgA secretion by duodenal bulb biopsies was significantly increased (P less than 0.001) in patients with duodenitis. The IgA response to H. pylori in patients with duodenitis was restricted to the first part of the duodenum; second part duodenal biopsies secreting significantly (P less than 0.001) less IgA during culture in vitro. H. pylori IgG antibody secretion by cultured biopsies was also significantly increased (P less than 0.01) in patients with duodenitis and those with gastric H. pylori infection but without duodenitis. Immunoblotting of duodenal bulb culture supernatants showed positive recognition by the mucosal IgA response of H. pylori antigens in the region of 120, 90, 61, and 31-26 kDa in patients with duodenitis. Serologically, such patients showed little evidence of IgA H. pylori antibodies by immunoblotting. These results demonstrate that the inflammatory response in the duodenal mucosa of patients with duodenitis represents a specific highly localized humoral response to H. pylori. 
Fetal cephaloceles: diagnosis with US. The prenatal sonograms of 15 fetuses with cephaloceles (13 occipital, one ethmoidal, and one frontoparietal) were retrospectively reviewed. The prognosis for fetuses with cephaloceles was poor: Only three of 14 with follow-up were born alive (21%), and all are likely to be handicapped. Karyotypes were abnormal in four of nine fetuses tested (44%). Associated cranial abnormalities observed in various numbers of fetuses included ventriculomegaly, the "lemon" sign, a flat basioccipital, "beaked" tectum, and bone defect. A wide variety of neural and nonneural anomalies were associated with cephaloceles. At least one sonographically observed concomitant neural or nonneural axis abnormality or an abnormal karyotype was present in nine of 15 fetuses (60%). Some associated neural malformations noted pathologically were not observed prenatally. Cranial meningoceles were not accurately distinguished from encephaloceles sonographically, and they also were associated with a poor prognosis. Comparison of findings in fetuses with cephaloceles with those of 15 fetuses with cystic hygromas revealed that the two abnormalities can usually be distinguished by the relationship of the mass with the neck and by other cranial findings present in fetuses with cephaloceles but absent in association with cystic hygromas. 
Sodium restriction in hypertensive patients treated with a converting enzyme inhibitor and a thiazide. When the function of the renin system is inhibited, blood pressure becomes more dependent on changes in sodium and water balance. Diuretics alone and sodium restriction alone are additive to converting enzyme inhibitor therapy. However, it is not known if these two ways of reducing sodium balance are additive in the presence of established converting enzyme inhibition. We therefore performed a double-blind crossover study of the effects of moderate sodium restriction in 21 patients with essential hypertension who were already being treated with the combination of a converting enzyme inhibitor and a diuretic. After 1 month of captopril (50 mg twice daily) and hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg once daily) therapy, with their usual sodium intake, average supine blood pressure was 147/96 +/- 5/3 (SEM) mm Hg 2 hours after treatment. Patients then reduced their sodium intake to around 80-100 mmol/day for the remainder of the study. After 2 weeks of sodium restriction, they entered a double-blind, randomized, crossover study of Slow Sodium (100 mmol sodium/day) compared with Slow Sodium placebo, while continuing sodium restriction and the above treatment. During the double-blind study, after 1 month of treatment with captopril (50 mg twice daily), hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg once daily), and Slow Sodium placebo, supine blood pressure 2 hours after treatment was 138/88 +/- 4/2 mm Hg (24-hour urinary sodium 104 +/- 11 mmol). After 1 month of captopril (50 mg twice daily), hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg once daily), and Slow Sodium tablets, supine blood pressure 2 hours after treatment was 147/91 +/- 5/2 mm Hg (p less than 0.05; 24-hour urinary sodium 195 +/- 14 mmol). 
Some genetic aspects of idiopathic and symptomatic absence seizures: waking and sleep EEGs in siblings. Epileptic activity was recorded in the waking and sleep EEG of 62.5% of 80 siblings of 38 patients with absence seizures. Epileptic discharges were noted in waking only in 8.7%, in waking as well as sleep in 28.8%, and in sleep only in 25%. Generalized, partly irregular, and slow spike-wave complexes were found, twice with lateral emphasis. Spike-wave complexes were recorded in 72% of 50 siblings of patients with idiopathic absence and in 46.7% of 30 siblings of patients with symptomatic absence. One epileptic discharge was observed every 108.6 s on the average, without striking differences between siblings of patients with idiopathic (99.7 s) and symptomatic absence (119.3 s). Without any differences between siblings of children with idiopathic and symptomatic absence, the most epileptic discharges were activated in sleep stages C and D, followed by stages A and B. The highest activation rate was observed in the 7-14-year-old group (73.5%) and to a somewhat lesser degree in the group between 15 and 20 years of age (66.7%); fewer epileptic discharges were recorded in younger (25%) and older patients (28.6%). The higher activation rates in the male sex were significant only in siblings of patients with idiopathic absence. Although only five patients (13.2%) were photosensitive, a photosensitivity was found in 24% of siblings of children with idiopathic absence and in 20% of siblings of patients with symptomatic absence. Three siblings of patients with idiopathic absence also had absence seizures; in one of them a febrile seizure occurred at an earlier age. All of them showed generalized spike wave discharges in waking as well as sleep. Occipital theta delta activity with generalization was observed more frequently in siblings of patients with idiopathic absence (82.2%) than in those of patients with symptomatic absence (63.6%). Our waking and sleep EEG recordings prove that concerning etiology-genetic factors play a striking role in idiopathic absence, but are also of considerable significance in the symptomatic types. 
Resting pulse rate of children and young adults associated with blood pressure and other cardiovascular risk factors. Few researchers have investigated the resting pulse rate of children and young adults as a risk factor or indicator for subsequent cardiovascular morbidity in a representative sample of the total population. Data from the first National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for persons ages 6-24 years revealed mean resting pulse rates that declined with age until ages 12-16, were higher in females than males, and in whites than blacks. At ages 12-17 and 18-24, blood pressure and body temperature showed consistent, independent, positive associations with pulse rate in whites. However, relatively little of the overall variation in pulse rate was explained by measured variables in multivariate regression analyses. Mother-child, age-specific correlation coefficients for pulse and blood pressure were generally positive. Further research is needed on the associations of resting pulse rate with sex, race, and blood pressure and with subsequent cardiovascular morbidity. 
Intestinal absorption of calcium and calcium metabolism in patients with essential hypertension and normal renal function. Several abnormalities of calcium metabolism have been described in patients with essential hypertension, and they have been linked to the pathogenesis of hypertension. Intestinal calcium absorption has been shown to be decreased in rats with spontaneous hypertension, but it has not been studied in patients with essential hypertension. In these studies we have for the first time measured intestinal absorption of calcium (using oral and intravenous administration of 47Ca), along with other parameters of calcium metabolism, in 14 patients with essential hypertension and normal renal function and in 16 normal subjects. There was no difference in serum total or ionized calcium, serum phosphorus, parathyroid hormone (PTH), 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D), 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D), and 24,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D(24,25(OH)2D) among hypertensives and normotensives. The urinary excretion of calcium, on the other hand, was greater in hypertensive than in normotensive subjects (195 +/- 33 v 107 +/- 13 mg/24 h, P less than .05). There was also no difference in intestinal absorption of calcium after 2 and 24 h among hypertensives and normotensives. When hypertensive patients were stratified according to plasma renin activity (PRA) we found that patients with low PRA had higher intestinal absorption of calcium at 2 h (23 +/- 2.9 v 18 +/- 0.6%, P less than .05) but not at 24 h. Serum total and ionized calcium, PTH, and 1,25(OH)2D were not different between patients with low and those with normal-high PRA. The major derangement of calcium metabolism in patients with essential hypertension is hypercalciuria. This abnormality is more pronounced in patients with low PRA, and it may lead to increased vitamin D-dependent intestinal absorption of calcium. 
Prolactin and cortisol levels in various paroxysmal disorders in childhood. The hormonal response of the anterior pituitary to various epileptic and nonepileptic events in children was studied. Postictal serum prolactin and cortisol levels were measured in 17 children with epilepsy, 23 with febrile seizures, and 10 with syncope or breath-holding spells. The levels were compared with those of 30 children with nonspecific fever, and 23 afebrile children served as control subjects. Significantly higher (P less than .01) prolactin levels (26.5 +/- 3.3 ng/mL, mean +/- SEM) were found in the epileptic group, compared with levels in children with febrile seizures (13.2 +/- 1.0 ng/mL), fever (11.2 +/- 0.9 ng/mL), syncope (7.3 +/- 0.9 ng/mL), and the control group (7.9 +/- 0.6 ng/mL). In contrast, serum cortisol levels were nonspecifically elevated in the epileptics and patients with febrile seizures or fever only. These findings suggest that elevated prolactin levels may be found after epileptic seizures and much less after febrile seizures, but not after breath-holding spells or syncopal events. Cortisol secretion appears to be nonselectively triggered by all stressful events, such as epileptic and febrile seizures, and fever. Elevated prolactin levels (greater than 15 ng/mL) associated with seizures may help in differentiating epileptic from febrile seizures or syncope. 
Evolution of myocardial ischemia and left ventricular function in patients with angina pectoris without myocardial infarction and total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and collaterals from other coronary arteries. Repeated episodes of myocardial ischemia might lead to progressive impairment of left ventricular (LV) function. This radionuclide study assessed myocardial ischemia and LV function several years after documented coronary occlusion without myocardial infarction. Over 5 years, 24 consecutive patients, who underwent cardiac catheterization for angina pectoris without myocardial infarction, had isolated total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery with well-developed collateral vessels. Five patients were successfully treated by coronary bypass grafting and 3 by coronary angioplasty. Among the 16 medically treated patients, 1 was lost to follow-up and 1 died (extracardiac death). The mean (+/- standard deviation) follow-up (14 patients) was 48 +/- 15 months. At follow-up, 8 patients still had clinical chest pain, 11 received antianginal therapy, 4 patients had no stress ischemia and the other 10 had greater than or equal to 1 sign of stress ischemia. All patients had a normal LV ejection fraction at rest (mean 60 +/- 3%; range 55 to 65%). Collateral circulation preserves LV function at the time of occlusion and, in some cases, prevents the development of myocardial ischemia; in patients with persisting myocardial ischemia after well-collateralized coronary occlusion, LV function is not impaired at long-term follow-up. 
Treatment of organic impotence. A review of 86 patients referred to a urological clinic with impotence showed that in 58% the causation was predominantly psychogenic. These patients were managed with psychosexual counselling. The various treatment options were discussed with those patients with organic impotence and 14 underwent the implantation of a penile prosthesis. A review of 130 patients who received penile prostheses in the period 1983 to 1987 was carried out to compare the complications and results obtained with the various types of prosthesis. The overall satisfaction rate was 81%; dissatisfaction usually arose as a result of complications of surgery. These were highest in patients with diabetes and priapism. The complications were also related to the type of prosthesis used. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and antihypertensives. Approximately 60 million people in the United States have hypertension (BP greater than or equal to 140/90 mm Hg), 40 million have arthritis clinically suitable for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy, and millions take NSAIDs for nonarthritic conditions, creating considerable potential for concomitant administration of NSAIDs and antihypertensive agents. It is estimated that more than 20 million people are on concurrent therapy. Most NSAIDs produce mild elevations of normal blood pressure levels and can partially or completely antagonize the effects of many antihypertensive drugs. The effect on blood pressure can vary from no effect to hypertensive crisis. In pooled studies, the average increase in mean arterial pressure was 10 mm Hg, and duration was short-lived or chronic. Significant interactions occur in about 1% of patients per year. The risk is greatest in the elderly, blacks, and patients with low-renin hypertension. NSAIDs may block the antihypertensive effects of thiazide and loop diuretics, beta-adrenergic blockers, alpha-adrenergic blockers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. No interactions have been reported with centrally acting alpha agonists or the calcium channel blockers. The mechanism of the hypertensive effects of NSAIDs seem primarily related to their ability to block the cyclo-oxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism, with a resultant decrease in prostaglandin formation. The prostaglandins are important in normal modulation of renal and systemic vascular dilatation, glomerular filtration, tubular secretion of salt and water, adrenergic neurotransmission, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Blockade of salutary effects of prostaglandins by NSAIDs results in a complex series of events culminating in attenuation of the effects of many antihypertensive agents. High-risk patients treated with NSAIDs should be identified and have blood pressure, renal function, and serum potassium frequently monitored. 
Usefulness of flecainide for prevention of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter. Danish-Norwegian Flecainide Multicenter Study Group. To evaluate the efficacy of flecainide acetate in the prevention of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter, 43 patients (23 men) (mean age 53 years) were randomized blindly to receive either placebo or 150 mg of flecainide twice per day for consecutive periods of 3 months. Attacks were verified by a minielectrocardiogram event recorder. If intolerable symptoms developed, the protocol allowed patients to cross over between treatments before the end of the first 3-month period. Four patients crossed over prematurely, between 1 week and 1 month, and 15 between 1 month and 3 months. The remaining 24 patients completed both 3-month periods. In all 3 treatment intervals, there was a significant reduction in the number of attacks during flecainide treatment (p less than 0.002). Complete suppression was seen in 15 of 43 patients (35%) treated with flecainide for 1 week, in 18 of 39 (46%) treated for 1 month and in 12 of 24 (50%) completing all 3 months in each period. Adverse effects were reported in 32 of the 43 patients (74%) treated with flecainide, but only 2 were withdrawals. One patient died suddenly. In comparison, 3 of 43 patients (7%) reported adverse effects in the placebo group. In conclusion, flecainide significantly suppressed the number of attacks of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and flutter. Adverse effects were frequent but were mostly tolerable. 
Mortality and morbidity in patients receiving encainide, flecainide, or placebo. The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. In the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial, designed to test the hypothesis that suppression of ventricular ectopy after a myocardial infarction reduces the incidence of sudden death, patients in whom ventricular ectopy could be suppressed with encainide, flecainide, or moricizine were randomly assigned to receive either active drug or placebo. The use of encainide and flecainide was discontinued because of excess mortality. We examined the mortality and morbidity after randomization to encainide or flecainide or their respective placebo. RESULTS. Of 1498 patients, 857 were assigned to receive encainide or its placebo (432 to active drug and 425 to placebo) and 641 were assigned to receive flecainide or its placebo (323 to active drug and 318 to placebo). After a mean follow-up of 10 months, 89 patients had died: 59 of arrhythmia (43 receiving drug vs. 16 receiving placebo; P = 0.0004), 22 of nonarrhythmic cardiac causes (17 receiving drug vs. 5 receiving placebo; P = 0.01), and 8 of noncardiac causes (3 receiving drug vs. 5 receiving placebo). Almost all cardiac deaths not due to arrhythmia were attributed to acute myocardial infarction with shock (11 patients receiving drug and 3 receiving placebo) or to chronic congestive heart failure (4 receiving drug and 2 receiving placebo). There were no differences between the patients receiving active drug and those receiving placebo in the incidence of nonlethal disqualifying ventricular tachycardia, proarrhythmia, syncope, need for a permanent pacemaker, congestive heart failure, recurrent myocardial infarction, angina, or need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty. CONCLUSIONS. There was an excess of deaths due to arrhythmia and deaths due to shock after acute recurrent myocardial infarction in patients treated with encainide or flecainide. Nonlethal events, however, were equally distributed between the active-drug and placebo groups. The mechanisms underlying the excess mortality during treatment with encainide or flecainide remain unknown. 
Hypoxemic stimulation of heart glycogen synthase and synthesis. Effects of insulin and diabetes mellitus. With radiotracer and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (13C-NMR) methods, we studied the time course of glycogen resynthesis after three 90-s episodes of hypoxemia in both control and diabetic rats in vivo. Glycogen synthesis was measured in the presence and absence of infused insulin and compared with the changes in glycogen synthase (GS) and phosphorylase activities. We observed in 13C-NMR spectra the expected mobilization of glycogen during hypoxia in vivo. In control rats with or without exogenous insulin, this was followed by a rapid resynthesis of glycogen during a 40-min recovery period. A marked activation of GS was observed by 10 min (glucose-6-phosphate-independent form of GS [GSl] = 0.65 mumol.min-1.g-1 or 92% of total GS), and activation persisted up to 40 min in both groups. Glycogen synthesis during the recovery period averaged 0.51 and 0.45 mumol.min-1.g-1 in the saline- and insulin-treated rats, respectively. In the diabetic rats by 10 min after hypoxemia, GSl increased only modestly in both saline-treated (0.16 mumol.min-1.g-1) and insulin-treated (0.21 mumol.min-1.g-1) rats, and activation persisted up to 40 min only with insulin treatment. Glycogen synthesis was slower in the diabetic rats given insulin (0.28 mumol.min-1.g-1) and essentially absent in the saline-treated rats (0.03 mumol.min-1.g-1) compared with controls. We conclude that recovery from hypoxemia is accompanied by a marked activation of GSl and rapid rates of glycogen synthesis in nondiabetic rats, and diabetes markedly blunts this response. Acute insulin infusion only partially overcomes this block. 
Stability of buffered lidocaine and epinephrine used for local anesthesia. Buffered lidocaine has been recently recommended for local anesthesia, as there is less pain on injection of the buffered solution. Reduced pain on injection of lidocaine and epinephrine buffered to a neutral pH was confirmed in 20 subjects (P less than .01). Concentrations of buffered lidocaine and epinephrine were performed in order to evaluate their stability. Buffered lidocaine dropped to 66.1% of initial concentrations after 4 weeks when stored at 25 degrees C. Buffered epinephrine fell to 1.34% of its initial concentration under similar conditions. Buffered lidocaine and epinephrine maintained 94.54% and 82.04%, respectively, of their initial concentrations after 4 weeks when refrigerated at 0-4 degrees C. Both lidocaine and epinephrine maintained greater than 90% concentration 2 weeks after buffering when stored at 0-4 degrees C. This permits batch buffering of lidocaine with epinephrine and storage for periods up to 2 weeks when properly refrigerated. 
Association of sustained oxyhemoglobin desaturation and onset of cluster headache attacks. Ten episodic cluster headache patients in their active cluster period, ten patients in remission and five control subjects were monitored for minute to minute changes in oxygen saturation (SaO2) and pulse rate before and after nitroglycerin (NTG) administration. A transient but significant decrease in SaO2 and increase in pulse rate of 25 minutes duration occurred following NTG in all groups. These changes may reflect physiologic hemodynamic effects of NTG as a smooth muscle relaxant. Subsequently, SaO2 levels and pulse rate recovered to baseline values in remission and control groups. In contrast, SaO2 values in the active cluster group decreased further and after an extended period culminated in cluster headache attacks in 10/10 patients. Three major changes, therefore, distinguished active cluster patients from remission and control groups. First, the magnitude of oxygen desaturation increased after the physiological effects of NTG ceased. Second, oxygen desaturation was sustained for an additional 9 to 30 minutes duration. Third, the hypoxemic state culminated in attacks in all cases. Our findings suggest that the active cluster period may be characterized by an impaired mechanism to autoregulate, and thus compensate, for hypoxemia. It is further proposed that persistence of hypoxemia and the cluster attack onset may share a common mechanism, coupling the two events. We suggest that abnormal central and/or peripheral chemoreceptor activity may be responsible for these events. 
Germ-line deletions of mtDNA in mitochondrial myopathy. mtDNA encodes subunits of the electron transport chain and is exclusively maternally inherited in mammals. It has been suggested that mtDNA might be the site of some of the mutations causing a group of human disorders called the "mitochondrial myopathies," because these may both be (1) accompanied by defects in the electron transport chain and (2) display a maternal pattern of inheritance. However, all of the deletions and duplications of mtDNA which occur in these patients have been sporadic, apart from families in whom affected members all carry different deletions suggesting a mutant autosomal dominantly inherited nuclear gene with de novo deletions in each individual. We present the first evidence for the presence of deleted mtDNAs in the germ line in these disorders. The patient carries a higher level of deleted mtDNAs than do his relatives, corresponding to severity of symptoms and consistent with a predicted dosage effect. "Selfishness" of deleted mtDNAs is probably one of the factors over and above random segregation of a small number of "founder" mtDNAs (the bottleneck hypothesis) which may be invoked to explain the usual distribution of mtDNAs in different tissues of patients with mtDNA deletions. 
Long-term mental health effects of a pediatric home care program. The increased survival of youngsters with chronic physical disorders has led to concern about their long-term psychological adjustment. Few data are available on how to reduce the psychological morbidity that occurs in the presence of chronic childhood illness. An earlier report of a randomized controlled trial of a pediatric home care program demonstrated that this program, combining comprehensive biomedical and psychosocial care, reduced the short-term psychological morbidity of those receiving home care. However, data have not previously been available on whether the short-term improvement in adjustment is associated with any long-term benefits. This report presents long-term follow-up data collected 4 1/2 to 5 years after enrollment on 68% of the original sample. After this interval there were even larger differences between the experimental and control groups than those previously observed at 6 months and 1 year. This finding provides strong evidence that a comprehensive family-oriented outreach program for youngsters with chronic physical disorders can have long-term mental health benefits. It should encourage clinicians to develop similar programs and investigators to look for long-term effects of other interventions. 
Sarcoidosis of the nervous system. A clinical approach. Sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder of unknown cause. The disease is characterized by the presence of noncaseating granulomas in the affected tissue system. Clinically recognizable nervous system involvement occurs in about 10% of patients with sarcoidosis, although the incidence of subclinical neurosarcoidosis is much higher. The disease appears in the differential diagnosis of many infectious and noninfectious neurological syndromes. We have reviewed all aspects of neurosarcoidosis from the point of view of practicing internists, including the clinical manifestations, cerebrospinal fluid and radiographic changes, differential diagnosis, and treatment. 
The sequential generation of neutrophil chemoattractant proteins in acute inflammation in the rabbit in vivo. Relationship between C5a and proteins with the characteristics of IL-8/neutrophil-activating protein 1. An in vivo experimental peritonitis model was investigated in the rabbit using zymosan as the inflammatory stimulus. After an i.p. injection of zymosan, exudate was removed at intervals and tested in the back skin of assay rabbits. Assay rabbits received i.v. injections of 125I-albumin and 111In-neutrophils, and the local accumulation of each label was measured in response to intradermal injections of exudate samples mixed with a potentiating dose of PGE2. When peritoneal exudate samples were tested in the presence of a specific anti-C5a antibody, virtually all the edema-inducing and neutrophil chemoattractant activity was abolished in samples taken up to 2 h after the zymosan injection. Later samples, however, contained increasing levels of a non-C5a component. In C5a-depleted 6-h exudate two peaks of inflammatory activity were separated using cation exchange HPLC. Evidence is presented that C5a itself is unable to stimulate the production of these activities. Both peaks of activity appear related to IL-8/NAP-1 as they inhibited the binding of 125I-IL-8/NAP-1 to human neutrophils. 
Studies on corticosteroid therapy in Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease. We evaluated the significance of corticosteroid therapy on 47 new patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease examined in the Uveitis Survey Clinic of the Hokkaido University Hospital. All patients were treated with topical corticosteroids, with or without systemic corticosteroids. 18 patients received systemic corticosteroid as pulse therapy, 20 patients received high-dose corticosteroid starting with prednisolone 200 mg, 2 patients received conventional-dose corticosteroid and 7 patients received no systemic corticosteroid therapy. When we evaluated the results 6 months after the initiation of treatment, anterior chamber inflammation was significantly less in patients with pulse and high-dose corticosteroid therapy than in those without systemic corticosteroid therapy. Furthermore, final visual acuity was significantly better in patients with pulse and high-dose corticosteroid than in those without them. However, there was no significant difference between patients with pulse therapy and those with high-dose corticosteroid therapy. The findings are in support of systemic corticosteroid therapy (pulse and high-dose) in the treatment of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease. 
End-tidal CO2 monitoring in mitral stenosis patients undergoing closed mitral commissurotomy. Arterial to end-tidal carbon dioxide difference (P(a-E')CO2) was recorded in 20 mitral stenosis patients (group A) for closed mitral commissurotomy and 20 healthy individuals (group B) for elective limb surgery. Mitral stenosis patients showed a greater difference than group B patients. Repeated measurements of P(a-E')CO2 in mitral stenosis patients at various stages of closed mitral commissurotomy not only showed a mean increase from before thoracotomy but there was also no correlation between P(a-E')CO2 before thoracotomy with that after thoracotomy, after commissurotomy or after chest closure. This indicated that end-tidal CO2 monitoring was unsuitable to measure adequacy of ventilation during closed mitral commissurotomy. 
The possible influence of antibiotics on results of bacillus Calmette-Guerin intravesical therapy for superficial bladder cancer. Intravesical treatment with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin is an established treatment of carcinoma in situ and an effective prophylaxis for the prevention of recurrence of transitional cell carcinoma. During instillation therapy oral antibiotics may be used to prevent or to treat urinary tract infections. Tuberculostatic agents are employed to prevent or to treat local irritative symptoms and systemic side effects caused by Bacillus Calmette-Guerin. We investigated the susceptibility of four different Bacillus Calmette-Guerin preparations to 18 antibiotics and to 11 tuberculostatic agents in vitro. All preparations were equally susceptible to most of the commonly used antibiotics and to all of the tuberculostatic agents with the exception of pyrazinamide. Our results suggest that in the absence of cystitis, instillations should not be accompanied by antibiotics because of the possible inhibition of antitumor efficacy by eradication of living Bacillus Calmette-Guerin organisms. The same inhibition may occur when tuberculostatic agents are used to prevent local and systemic complications of Bacillus Calmette-Guerin instillation therapy. 
An unusual angiographic picture in status migrainosus. Arteriographic findings suggestive of inflammation are described in a 26-year-old woman presenting with headache and syncope. There were no clinical findings of angitis, and a diagnosis of status migrainosus was eventually made. We present her case, as well as a review of previous cases of arterial changes in patients with headache. Most previous cases report arterial narrowing, felt to reflect spasm, whereas our patient demonstrated segmental stenoses and dilatations, perhaps implicating inflammation. The inflammatory process has been postulated as the pathogenesis of migraine pain. As most migraineurs do not undergo arteriography, the incidence of arterial change in these patients is unknown. This finding has therapeutic implications for selecting the optimal anti-migraine agent. 
Serum and tissue autoantibodies to colonic epithelium in ulcerative colitis. Sera and colonic tissue-bound immunoglobulin extracts from patients with ulcerative colitis and disease controls were examined immunohistochemically and by killer cell cytotoxicity assay for the presence of anticolonic epithelial autoantibodies. IgG yields in the tissue extracts from patients with colitis and control subjects were similar, and the extracts were uniformly autoantibody negative. Of 41 sera from patients with inflammatory bowel disease, 'classical' anticolon antibody was present in 41% and was commoner in patients with sclerosing cholangitis. Cytotoxic anticolon antibody was present in 20% overall and was strongly associated with disease activity; it did not correlate with the presence of 'classical' anticolon antibody. The heterogeneous and non-universal antiepithelial autoantibody response and the failure to detect tissue bound autoantibody in vivo argue against the hypothesis that humoral autoimmunity is of major importance in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis. 
Rapid development of resistance to antifolates in vitro: possible clinical implication. Within three repeated 7-day incubation periods with either methotrexate (MTX) or trimetrexate (TMTX), human colon adenocarcinoma cells (HCT-8) developed high levels of resistance to these drugs, as evidenced by approximately 20- and 50-fold increases, respectively, in the median effective doses. Similarly, within six short-term exposures (4 hours) to the same drugs, a high degree of resistance developed in the cells. Alternating 4-hour treatment cycles with MTX and TMTX did not delay the onset of resistance to these antimetabolites in the HCT-8 cells. The same strategy produced no better results than giving either MTX or TMTX alone to (C57BL/6 x DBA/2)F1 mice bearing murine leukemia P388 cells. Furthermore, HCT-8 cells resistant to short-term (4-hour) exposure to MTX were cross-resistant to the same drug given for 7 days continuously, and cells resistant to MTX given continuously for 7 days were cross-resistant to the same drug given for 4 hours. Analogous results were obtained with TMTX, indicating that, under these circumstances, changing the schedule of administration of the same agent does not overcome resistance to it. The clinical relevance of these data to prolonged adjuvant chemotherapy, as well as loco-regional and continuous-infusion chemotherapy, is discussed. 
Inhibition of mineralization of glutaraldehyde-pretreated bovine pericardium by AlCl3. Mechanisms and comparisons with FeCl3, LaCl3, and Ga(NO3)3 in rat subdermal model studies. In the present study, the authors investigated the mechanism by which Al3+ preincubations inhibited the pathologic calcification of glutaraldehyde-pretreated bovine pericardium (GPBP) implanted subdermally in rats. The concentration dependency of the Al3+ anticalcification effect was compared with that of other trivalent metal ions (Fe3+, Ga3+, La3+) known to interact with calcium phosphates. In vitro incubations of GPBP were carried out in AlCl3 (10(-3) mol/l [molar] to 10(-1) mol/l) to ascertain both the optimal conditions for uptake of Al3+ and the time course of Al3+ dissociation. Al3+ uptake by GPBP was concentration dependent and occurred rapidly, with tissue levels after 1 hour not differing significantly from those after 72 hours of incubation. Analyses of GPBP samples preincubated in AlCl3 (0.1 mol/l, 24 hours) showed that more than 75% of the Al3+ remained tightly bound after 60 days' in vitro release at 37 degrees C, pH 7.4. Preincubations of GPBP in AlCl3 significantly inhibited calcification after subdermal implantation in rats for 60 days (Ca++ = 5.1 +/- 0.9 microgram/mg, 11.5 +/- 4.6 micrograms/mg, 70.3 +/- 23.0 micrograms/mg, mean +/- standard error [SE], for 10(-1) mol/l, 10(-2) mol/l, 10(-3) mol/l AlCl3, respectively), compared with controls (Ca++ = 110.0 +/- 9.3 micrograms/mg). All animals were free of Al3(+)-mediated adverse effects on bone, as determined by light microscopic evaluation of femoral epiphyseal growth plates. Transmission electron microscopy coupled with electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) of GPBP incubated in 10(-1) mol l AlCl3 for 24 hours demonstrated discrete Al3+ localization in the sarcolemma and cytoplasmic and nuclear membranes of devitalized pericardial connective tissue cells at intracellular sites coincident with phosphorus loci. Similar intracellular localization remained prominent in explants removed after 60 days; no calcific deposits were noted in these specimens. Preincubations in Fe3+ but not Ga3+ and La3+ solutions yielded significant inhibition of GPBP calcification, which did not differ significantly from that provided by Al3- and had a comparable concentration dependency. Light microscopic examination (Prussian blue staining) and EELS of FeCl3-preincubated explants demonstrated Fe3+ localization within devitalized GPBP connective tissue cells. The authors conclude that Al3+ and Fe3+ significantly inhibit the pathologic mineralization of glutaraldehyde-pretreated bovine pericardium by mechanisms that are likely related to the high affinity of these cations for membrane associated and other intracellular phosphorus loci. 
What value is given to quality of life assessment by health professionals considering response to palliative chemotherapy for advanced cancer? A study was designed to obtain information on the importance of quality of life assessment (QL) during palliative chemotherapy. A questionnaire was answered by 542 health professionals (392 general practitioners, 20 specialist oncologists, and 130 oncology nurses). In both simulated patient situations and multiple-choice questions, all groups rated QL higher than other standard methods of assessment. General practitioners and oncologists appeared to weight the assessment criteria more equally than nurses who gave strong emphasis to QL. In the simulated patient situation, there was a small degree of interaction between QL and other assessment criteria. However, the analysis showed that QL was regarded as an independent variable and was considered to be the most important objective of palliative chemotherapy for advanced cancer. 
Cystic cerebellar schwannoma: case report. We report a case of cerebellar schwannoma in a 64-year-old woman. The tumor was defined on computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging scans and confirmed on surgery. The solid part of the tumor appeared to be derived from the inferior vermis of the cerebellum, the cystic part extending toward the medulla oblongata and the foramen magnum. The problem of preoperative diagnosis based on magnetic resonance imaging findings is discussed. 
Acute effects of delayed reperfusion on myocardial infarct shape and left ventricular volume: a potential mechanism of additional benefits from thrombolytic therapy. The purpose of this study was to characterize the effects of late reperfusion on myocardial infarct shape and to quantitate associated changes in left ventricular volume. Reperfusion was delayed until there was no salvage of ischemic myocardium. Dogs underwent 6.5 h of left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion (n = 5) or 5.5 h of occlusion and 1 h of reperfusion (n = 5). Infarct shape was measured with pairs of ultrasonic crystals implanted circumferentially in the mid myocardium. Infarct stiffness was determined from end-diastolic pressure-segment length curves produced by aortic clamping. Left ventricular volume was measured with three pairs of endocardial ultrasonic crystals and the effect of infarct shape change on left ventricular volume was determined. Infarct size, expressed as a percent of the area at risk, was similar in reperfused (97 +/- 1%) and nonreperfused (98 +/- 1%) hearts. After coronary artery occlusion, infarct segments became akinetic and functional dilation, measured as end-diastolic ultrasonic crystal separation, increased to a similar extent in reperfused (24 +/- 7%) and nonreperfused (19 +/- 3%) hearts. In 13 additional dogs that underwent reperfusion and instrumentation with endocardial ultrasonic crystals for volume measurement, left ventricular volume increased 42 +/- 6% over the preocclusion level (p less than 0.001). Within minutes of reperfusion, the infarct stiffened, infarct dilation decreased to 1 +/- 4% over the baseline preocclusion level (p less than 0.05 vs. prereperfusion) and left ventricular volume decreased to 16 +/- 11% over the baseline level (p less than 0.01 vs. postocclusion). Thus, coronary artery reperfusion reverses initial infarct dilation. Changes in infarct dilation occur immediately after reperfusion and are accompanied by infarct stiffening and a decrease in left ventricular volume. Reperfusion can affect infarct shape and stiffness at a point in time when myocardial salvage is no longer possible. 
Pain in neonatal circumcision. Because newborn circumcision is a quick and safe surgical procedure, any method to relieve pain must be almost risk-free in order to be acceptable. General anesthesia and narcotic analgesia are not appropriate. Dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB) with lidocaine hydrochloride is probably the most effective and safest form of anesthesia for newborn circumcision currently available, but it can cause significant local and systemic reactions. Only a limited number of cases of DPNB have been reported and we feel that this procedure should be used cautiously until there is more published evidence of its safety. Alternative methods of pain relief including oral acetaminophen and topical anesthesia should also be studied. Of special interest is recent evidence that a sucrose-flavored pacifier is an effective analgesic during newborn circumcision. 
Stereotaxic implantation of autologous adrenal medulla into caudate nucleus in four patients with parkinsonism. One-year follow-up. Four patients with levodopa-responsive parkinsonism (aged 26, 35, 45, and 49 years) received autologous adrenal medullary implants into or near the left caudate nucleus by stereotaxic implantation after flank adrenalectomy. All patients had an immediate response to implantation lasting several days, during which parkinsonian signs and symptoms decreased. This period was followed by a gradual reappearance of symptoms in all but one patient. This patient had had a dramatic increase in "on" time without dyskinesias and a decrease in the severity and duration of "off" time. He died of multifocal glioblastoma 1 year after transplantation. Autopsy revealed no surviving adrenal cells. In one case, the stereotaxic implantation missed the basal ganglia, resulting in the placement of the adrenal medullary tissue into the medial thalamus and near the third ventricle; the patient did not improve. In the other two cases, a modest but definite increase in "on" time without dyskinesia and a reduction in the severity and duration of "off" time has been observed. The role of autologous adrenal medullary transplantation in patients with parkinsonism remains to be determined. Patients with a family history of cerebral malignancy may be at increased risk for the development of transplant-induced malignancy. 
Effect of aluminized covers on body temperature in patients having abdominal surgery. An unintended fall in body temperature is commonly associated with surgery. One promising strategy to help conserve body heat is use of covers made of aluminum-coated plastic. We compared the effect of three combinations of the covers (head cover, body covers, both) and a control condition on tympanic temperature in 60 adults having major abdominal surgery under general anesthesia. The covers were applied from the time of transport to the operating room until exit from the postanesthesia care unit (PACU). Tympanic temperature was measured with an infrared thermometer. Between transport and PACU entry, the four groups had mean temperature decreases ranging from 1.6 degrees to 2.3 degrees F (0.9 degree to 1.3 degrees C). After controlling for background variables affecting body temperature, adjusted PACU entry temperature was higher in the two groups with aluminized body covers. Regression analysis showed that use of the body covers accounted for 7% of the temperature variance at PACU entry and predicted a 0.9 degree F (0.5 degree C) higher temperature at that time. These findings indicate that aluminized body covers help to reduce heat loss in patients having major abdominal surgery. 
Recurring catamenial pneumothorax treated with a Gn-RH analogue. We report a case of recurring catamenial pneumothorax with concurrent pelvic endometriosis. Thoracoscopy revealed a blue-like lesion on top of the dome of the right hemidiaphragm. Microscopic examination of biopsy specimens showed endometriosis. The patient was treated with a Gn-RH analogue and remains well without further evidence of pneumothorax after six months. 
Endogenous IFN-gamma is required for resistance to acute Trypanosoma cruzi infection in mice. In order to study the role of endogenous IFN-gamma in Trypanosoma cruzi infection in mice, a potent murine IFN-gamma-specific mAb was injected i.p. on days -1, 7, and 14, relative to infection. Irrespective of the parasite inocula (100 or 25,000), groups of antibody-treated mice had significantly greater cumulative mortality rates than did appropriate controls. In antibody-treated mice, mean survival times were also significantly shorter, and maximum mean parasitemia levels were significantly higher, than in controls. Moreover, the number of amastigote nests in tissues was higher than in control mice and attained a maximum at the same time as parasitemia. As evident from kinetic studies of neutralizing activity, injected mAb were rapidly consumed in infected, but not in noninfected, mice, which is suggestive of massive IFN-gamma production during the early parasitemic phase of the disease. Nevertheless, IFN-gamma remained undetectable in the sera of infected but untreated mice. Unexpectedly, however, a peak of IFN-like antiviral activity, characterizable as a mixture of IFN-gamma and IFN-beta, appeared in mAb-treated mice that survived to infection at a time when neutralizing activity of injected mAb had drastically decreased in the circulation. We hypothesize that this high level of artificially induced endogenous IFN-gamma, not neutralized by the amounts of injected mAb, was due to the more intense parasite multiplication occurring in mAb-treated mice, which in turn may have induced an increased amount of various cytokines. TNF-alpha was not found in the serum of our mice. The humoral immune response entered its exponential phase at a time point later than that when protection by endogenous IFN-gamma was evident. Treatment with IFN-gamma-specific antibody, as applied in our study, failed to affect the level of different Ig isotypes or of T. cruzi-specific antibodies. Our study clearly indicates that IFN-gamma is produced early in acute T. cruzi infection and exerts a protective effect that is probably independent from the humoral immune response. 
Long-term observation after intravesical metaphylaxis with mitomycin C in patients with superficial bladder tumors. After transurethral resection of a superficial bladder tumor 63 patients were treated by chemoprophylaxis with mitomycin C over a period of two years: 33.3 percent experienced recurrent disease under metaphylaxis and 42 patients who remained recurrence-free during instillation therapy were observed further for an average of 26.4 months. During this period 26.2 percent of the patients showed recurrences ranging between two to forty-four months after completing instillation. The majority of the patients in whom recurrent tumors developed also had recurrent tumor processes before the instillation therapy was begun. Of the 42 patients 73.8 percent stayed recurrence-free during the observation period of twelve to fifty-four months after completing instillation therapy. In conclusion, during an average observation period of 50.4 months, 52.4 percent of the patients in this study showed recurrences. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease as a cause of chest pain. Patients with recurrent chest pain free of significant coronary artery disease account for 10% to 30% of patients undergoing coronary angiography. Recent studies suggest that gastroesophageal reflux disease may be very common in these patients. The cause of this chest pain seems to be related primarily to an acid-sensitive mucosa regardless of the presence of esophagitis. Unfortunately, a careful history will not distinguish chest pain arising from a cardiac versus an esophageal source. Therefore, all patients must undergo a thorough cardiac evaluation before assuming that acid reflux is the cause of their complaints. Initial gastroenterology evaluation will usually include upper GI endoscopy or barium studies, possibly with acid perfusion (Bernstein) testing, or both. However, the more sensitive and specific test for acid-related disease is prolonged esophageal pH monitoring. This study quantifies the amount of acid reflux but, more importantly, identifies the relationship between chest pain and acid reflux episodes. Patients should be studied in the outpatient setting with emphasis placed on performing activities that replicate their chest pain. Although we presume that acid-induced chest pain responds as well as heartburn to vigorous antireflux regimens, there are few studies to address this issue. Nevertheless, I have had great success in treating these patients with either high-dose H2 blockers or omeprazole therapy. 
Cancer mortality, aging, and patterns of comorbidity in the United States: 1968 to 1986. Cancer is often reported as contributing to the risk of noncancer causes of death. The age variation of these reports was studied using U.S. data on all causes of death listed on death certificates for 1968 to 1986. The occurrence of cancer as a nonunderlying cause of death increased with age and was higher for treatable and slowly growing tumor types. These patterns persisted even if the cancer manifested changes in occurrence. Nonunderlying occurrences were highest in the 85 to 94 age group and were correlated with cancer survival. This suggests increased importance of cancer as a cause of death and a comorbid condition among oldest-old persons. The high rate of occurrence as an associated cause of death suggests that if life expectancy increases due to declines in circulatory and other chronic disease mortality, cancer could become the preeminent cause of death in the United States. 
Anterior transpetrosal-transtentorial approach for sphenopetroclival meningiomas: surgical method and results in 10 patients. This report presents a new surgical method and the results in 10 patients with petroclival meningiomas extending into the parasellar region (sphenopetroclival meningiomas). Minimal but effective extradural resection of the anterior petrous bone via a middle fossa craniotomy offered a direct view of the clival area with preservation of the temporal bridging veins and cochlear organs. The dural incision was extended anteriorly to Meckel's cave, and in cases with invasion of the cavernous sinus, Parkinson's triangle was enlarged by mobilization of the trigeminal nerve. This approach offered an excellent view from the mid-clivus to the cavernous sinus. Extra-as well as intradural tumor masses and dural attachments could be cleared under direct view of the pontine surface. The risk of injury to the lower cranial nerve and of retraction damage to the temporal lobe and brain stem were kept minimal by this approach. Total tumor resection was achieved in 7 patients, with no resultant mortality. Eight patients had a satisfactory postsurgical course, extraocular paresis being their main complaint. The extent of tumor resection depended on the degree of tumor adhesion to the carotid artery, and operative morbidity on the degree of tumor invasion of the brain stem. Of the 3 patients in whom subtotal tumor removal was achieved, only one experienced regrowth of the tumor and underwent a second operation during the follow-up period (6 months-6 years). 
Reexamination of the blood lymphocyte transformation test in the diagnosis of chronic beryllium disease. The T cell response to beryllium, measured in bronchoalveolar lavage by the lymphocyte transformation test (LTT), is a critical diagnostic test for discriminating between chronic beryllium disease (CBD) and other granulomatous diseases. We examined the sensitivity, reproducibility, and methods of a less invasive, peripheral blood LTT in 17 patients with CBD and in 18 beryllium-exposed control subjects. Ninety-four percent of CBD cases (16/17) had abnormal blood LTT results, and all 18 beryllium-exposed control subjects had normal blood LTT results. Split samples for 10 beryllium disease cases and eight control subjects demonstrated that the blood LTT was reproducible between two separate laboratories. The LTT was equally sensitive with 10% and 20% serum in the culture medium. We conclude that an abnormal blood LTT can be used to diagnose CBD in patients with compatible lung pathology. 
Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty: evaluation of postoperative complications, sequelae, and results. A study of 71 patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome was performed to evaluate the effectiveness, complications, and late sequelae of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. Postoperative immediate complications were of minor importance. In 96% of the patients, the snoring was improved; it was completely resolved in 48%. The postoperative apnea index remained pathologic in all patients who underwent postoperative polysomnography, although mild improvement was noted. Seventy-four percent of our patients felt a subjective postoperative improvement which was not always confirmed by the polysomnographic examination. A record of improvement was obtained in 64% of the operated patients. Our results establish the beneficial effect of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, which is the recommended surgical procedure for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. 
Altered interleukin-2 secretion in patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) production was studied in T lymphocytes and isolated CD4+ T lymphocytes from 12 patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome and 10 healthy volunteers. The dose and time kinetics of IL-2 production by concanavalin A-stimulated T cells and CD4+ T cells of fibromyalgia patients differed from findings in controls by 1) a need for a higher concentration of mitogen in order to achieve optimal IL-2 secretion, and 2) a delay in the peak time of optimal IL-2 secretion. Unlike normal IL-2 secretion, which was higher after removal of CD8+ T cells, the pattern and degree of IL-2 secretion by cells from fibromyalgia patients were not changed following removal of CD8+ T cells. Addition of calcium ionophore in assays using suboptimal concanavalin A concentrations did not correct the reduction in IL-2 secretion by fibromyalgia patient T cells, but addition of phorbol myristate acetate induced normal secretion of IL-2. These findings suggest that there is a defect in the IL-2 pathway, which is related to protein kinase C activation and does not involve impairment of Ca2+ elevation, in patients with fibromyalgia. 
Cerebral vasoconstriction during head-upright tilt-induced vasovagal syncope. A paradoxic and unexpected response. BACKGROUND. To determine the effect of vasovagally mediated syncope on the cerebral circulation, transcranial Doppler sonography was used to assess changes in cerebral blood flow velocity during head-upright tilt-induced syncope. METHODS AND RESULTS. Thirty patients (17 men and 13 women; mean age, 43 +/- 22 years) with recurrent unexplained syncope were evaluated by use of an upright tilt-table test for 30 minutes, with or without an infusion of intravenous isoproterenol (1-4 micrograms/min), in an attempt to provoke bradycardia, hypotension, or both. Transcranial Doppler sonography was used to assess middle cerebral artery systolic velocity (Vs), diastolic velocity (Vd), ratio of systolic to diastolic velocities, pulsatility index (PI = Vs-Vd/Vmean), and resistance index (RI = Vs-Vd/Vs) before, during, and after tilt. Syncope occurred in six patients (20%) during the baseline tilt and 14 (46%) during isoproterenol infusion (total positives, 66%). In the tilt-positive patients, concomitant with the development of hypotension and bradycardia, transcranial Doppler sonography showed a 75 +/- 17% decrease in diastolic velocity, unchanged systolic velocity, a 46 +/- 17% decrease in mean velocity, a 295 +/- 227% increase in pulsatility index, and a 73 +/- 34% increase in resistance index. CONCLUSIONS. These findings reflect increased cerebrovascular resistance secondary to arteriolar vasoconstriction distal to the insonation point of the middle cerebral artery. This is paradoxic because the expected response of the cerebral circulation to hypotension is vasodilation. We conclude that abnormal baroreceptor responses triggered during vasovagal syncope result in a derangement of cerebral autoregulation with paradoxic vasoconstriction in the face of increasing hypotension. 
Hypertension, lipoprotein(a), and apolipoprotein A-I as risk factors for stroke in the Chinese. We analyzed the serum concentrations of lipids and lipoproteins and the prevalence of other risk factors in a case-control study of 304 consecutive Chinese patients with acute stroke (classified as cerebral infarction, lacunar infarction, or intracerebral hemorrhage) and 304 age- and sex-matched controls. For all strokes we identified the following risk factors: a history of ischemic heart disease, diabetes mellitus, or hypertension; the presence of atrial fibrillation or left ventricular hypertrophy; a glycosylated hemoglobin A1 concentration of greater than 9.1%; a fasting plasma glucose concentration 3 months after stroke of greater than 6.0 mmol/l; a serum triglyceride concentration 3 months after stroke of greater than 2.1 mmol/l; and a serum lipoprotein(a) concentration of greater than 29.2 mg/dl. We found the following protective factors: a serum high density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentration of greater than 1.59 mmol/l and a serum apolipoprotein A-I concentration of greater than or equal to 106 mg/dl. The patterns of risk factors differed among the three stroke subtypes. When significant risk factors were entered into a multiple logistic regression model, we found a history of hypertension, a high serum lipoprotein(a) concentration, and a low apolipoprotein A-I concentration to be independent risk factors for all strokes. The attributable risk for hypertension was estimated to be 24% in patients aged greater than or equal to 60 years. In this population, in which cerebrovascular diseases are the third commonest cause of mortality, identification of risk factors will allow further studies in risk factor modification for the prevention of stroke. 
Abnormalities of gastrointestinal motility in children with nonulcer dyspepsia and in children with gastroesophageal reflux disease. In 11 children (mean age 44.2 months) with symptoms suggesting upper intestinal dysfunction (nonulcer dyspepsia), in nine children (mean age 27.3 months) with gastroesophageal reflux (GER) disease, and in seven controls (mean age 20.4 months) we investigated fasting [for 3 hr or until two migrating motor complexes (MMC) were observed] and fed (90 min) antroduodenal motility by means of perfused catheter system; furthermore, we measured both gastric emptying of a radiolabeled milk formula and fasting duodenogastric reflux during manometry by assessing bile salt concentration in gastric aspirates. No structural abnormalities of gastrointestinal tract and organic disorders were detected in the patients. In a high proportion of both groups of patients we found manometric abnormalities of interdigestive and fed motor patterns that were not seen in the controls: absence of antral phase III of MMC; significant decrease of antral and/or duodenal motor activity during fasting and/or fed periods; abnormal propagation or configuration of MMC phase III that was significantly shorter than in controls; bursts of sustained fasting and/or fed phasic duodenal activity, frequently uncoordinated with adjacent gut segments. When compared to controls, the mean intragastric concentration of bile salts during all MMC phases and the mean 1-hr percent gastric activity of the radiolabeled milk were significantly higher in the two groups of patients. We conclude that in a high proportion of children with nonulcer dyspepsia and of children with GER disease, gastrointestinal manometry may reveal significant irregularities of antral and duodenal motility, which are associated with increased duodenogastric reflux and delayed gastric emptying. 
One-stage hypospadias repair: experience of 367 cases. Over a 6 1/2-year period we performed 374 primary hypospadias repairs, all but 7 as single-stage procedures. We usually employed the MAGPI, tubed preputial island flap and Mathieu reconstructions. Complications were comparatively few, with an overall incidence of 5% fistulae, 3% anastomotic strictures and 7% meatal retraction or stenosis. The cosmetic results were superior to those of staged procedures in that it was almost always possible to obtain a glanular meatus which was both terminal and realistic. 
Early repair of iatrogenic injury to the ureter or bladder after gynecological surgery. Contrary to the traditional doctrine of delayed intervention in post-hysterectomy injuries of the ureter or bladder, the policy at our department has been to operate as soon as possible after the diagnosis is made. Of 68 patients (25 with vesicovaginal fistulas and 43 with ureteral injuries) early intervention was possible in 40 (59%). Primary healing was obtained in all patients. These results suggest that there is no disadvantage in early repair. 
Perivalvular pseudoaneurysm complicating bacterial endocarditis: MR detection in five cases. Bacterial endocarditis usually affects the valve leaflets, but erosion into the valve anulus and adjacent myocardium may form a myocardial abscess. Perivalvular abscesses can drain into the ventricles or aorta, forming a life-threatening pseudoaneurysm. We reviewed our experience with cardiac MR imaging of this disorder. Fourteen patients with complicated bacterial endocarditis underwent ECG-gated spin-echo cardiac MR imaging in addition to conventional duplex two-dimensional echocardiography (2-D echo). Angiography was performed in seven patients, six of whom underwent surgery for valve replacement. MR imaging detected the pseudoaneurysms in all five of the surgically proved cases, while 2-D echo detected only three. Clinical follow-up suggested there were no false-negative examinations, but no autopsy data were available for confirmation. Postoperative MR imaging studies were conducted in three patients, revealing two recurrent pseudoaneurysms and one thrombosed aneurysm. Cardiac MR imaging provides useful pre- and postoperative information in patients with perivalvular pseudoaneurysms due to endocarditis. 
Immunohistochemical detection of transforming growth factor-beta 1 in fibrotic liver diseases. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 was localized by means of immunohistochemical reaction in liver biopsy specimens taken from patients having different chronic liver diseases with extending fibrosis. Two polyclonal antibodies that were produced in rabbits were directed against the amino terminal of transforming growth factor-beta 1. Staining by anti-CC(1-30) was primarily extracellular and located in the portal and periportal fibrotic areas of all seven cases with chronic active hepatitis. No staining was noted in the four chronic persistent cases studied. A strong reaction was seen with the antibody in nine of the ten cirrhotic samples, whereas it was negative in one inactive cirrhosis case and in all five cases with normal liver histological findings. No positive staining could be detected by the anti-LC(1-30) in any of the liver tissues. Detection of transforming growth factor-beta 1 in active liver diseases at the site of fibrosis suggests that transforming growth factor-beta 1 might have a role in the process and progression of fibrosis during the development of the disease. 
Elevated serum gastrin levels in patients with gastric cancer. Elevated plasma gastrin levels have been found in patients with colorectal cancer. We measured fasting serum gastrin levels in control subjects (n = 12), patients with gastric cancer (n = 43), and patients with carcinoma of the esophagus (n = 55). Serum gastrin levels were significantly higher in patients with gastric cancer compared to normal controls (P less than 0.005) and those with esophageal cancer (P less than 0.05). This information may add to our understanding of the pathogenesis of gastric cancer. 
The nutcracker syndrome: new aspects of pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to study vascular anatomy in 3 patients with the nutcracker syndrome and in 10 healthy volunteers. From these studies an abnormal branching of the superior mesenteric artery from the aorta was identified as being the cause of the nutcracker syndrome. Consequently, surgical transposition of the left renal vein to achieve an unobstructed renal venous backflow was performed successfully in 2 patients, while 1 underwent nephrectomy. In 1 patient adjuvant ureteral instrumentation became necessary to aid occlusion of persisting shunts between peripelvic venous varicosities and the urinary tract. Awareness of the pathophysiology of the nutcracker syndrome ensures an early diagnosis, which should be confirmed by a combination of diagnostic procedures, including MRI. 
Localized necrotizing arteritis. A report of two cases involving the gallbladder and pancreas. We report two cases of localized necrotizing arteritis, one involving the gallbladder and one involving the pancreas. Both cases were found incidentally in surgically resected specimens. Vascular changes in both cases were similar to those seen in classic polyarteritis nodosa, involving medium-sized muscular arteries characterized by fibrinoid necrosis and panarterial and periarterial inflammations varying from active to resolving stages. Both patients had no constitutional symptoms or underlying serologic abnormalities suggestive of systemic angitis. To our knowledge, pancreas-limited arteritis has not previously been described. Whether these lesions represent an early manifestation of a systemic arteritides syndrome, a variant of polyarteritis nodosa, or a distinct entity should be prudently judged through a long-term follow-up. 
Effect of oral propranolol administration on azygos, renal and hepatic uptake and output of catecholamines in cirrhosis. Circulating catecholamines are increased in cirrhosis with portal hypertension, and increase further after propranolol. In 23 cirrhotic patients, plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine were determined in an artery, the azygos vein, the right renal vein and a hepatic vein before and after an oral 80-mg dose of propranolol. Baseline azygos and renal venous norepinephrine levels were significantly higher than arterial norepinephrine levels (+20%, p less than 0.005; and +28%, p less than 0.001, respectively). Hepatic venous norepinephrine and all venous epinephrine values were below the arterial values (all p less than 0.05). After propranolol intake, arterial norepinephrine and epinephrine increased (+16%, p less than 0.01; and +93%, p less than 0.001, respectively). Significant increases in norepinephrine and epinephrine were found in azygos and renal veins (all p less than 0.01), whereas hepatic venous norepinephrine and epinephrine remained unchanged. Azygos and hepatic blood flow decreased after propranolol intake (-27%, p less than 0.05; and -16%, p less than 0.01, respectively). Azygos spillover of norepinephrine (an estimate of locally released norepinephrine delivered to the circulation) and clearance of epinephrine remained unaltered. Hepatointestinal clearance showed no significant change for norepinephrine, but showed a borderline-significant decrease for epinephrine (-23%, p = 0.08). Our results show a net production of norepinephrine in the prehepatic splanchnic area drained through superior portalsystemic collaterals and in the kidneys. The increase in circulating catecholamines after propranolol intake is probably due to a combination of further enhancement of sympathetic activity and a decrease in catecholamine degradation. 
The spectrum of vertical gaze palsy following unilateral brainstem stroke. A single unilateral lesion, near the midline, may interrupt the pathways involved in vertical gaze just before and after they decussate, inducing an anatomically unilateral, but functionally bilateral, lesion. We report 11 patients with supranuclear vertical gaze palsies (two with conjugate upgaze palsy, four with combined up- and downgaze palsies, two with monocular elevation palsy, and three with vertical "one-and-a-half" syndrome) due to unilateral midbrain strokes. 
Use of polymerase chain reactions to monitor minimal residual disease in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients. T-cell receptor (TCR) delta gene rearrangements are observed in more than 80% of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients. Moreover, a preferential usage of specific genetic elements has been shown in different ALL subtypes: V delta 1 DJ delta 1 rearrangements predominate in T-ALL, while most B-precursor ALLs show a recombination of V delta 2 to D delta 3. Recently we have proposed a strategy for the detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) based on the isolation of clonospecific probes following the in vitro amplification of V delta 1 DJ delta 1 junctions by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and now have adapted this method to the preparation of specific V delta 2 D delta 3 fragments. In the present study, clonospecific probes were generated from 11 T-ALL and 16 cALL patients (21 children, 6 adults). The sensitivity of these 27 probes in detecting residual leukemia cells varied between 10(-4) to 10(-6) as determined by semiquantitative evaluation of dilution experiments. PCR analysis of 55 bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) samples obtained from the 27 patients during complete clinical remission showed the following results: (1) Evidence for MRD was obtained in the BM of all patients (eight of eight) investigated 2 to 6 months after remission induction and also in 6 of 11 cases on maintenance therapy 7 to 19 months after diagnosis. (2) In contrast, all patients but one (10 of 11) analyzed 6 to 41 months after the termination of treatment lacked apparent evidence for leukemia DNA; the exception was a girl exhibiting 10(-4) to 10(-5) residual cells in her PB 5.5 years after diagnosis. (3) Longitudinal analysis in nine patients disclosed marked individual differences in the intervals between achievement of clinical remission and complete eradication of the leukemia cell clone. (4) Differences in the duration of MRD were not associated with distinct clinical-hematologic features. (5) Detection of residual disease by PCR proceeded clinical relapse in two cases. 
Update on esophageal radiology. This article reviews the current status of double-contrast radiography in diagnosing pharyngeal tumors and opportunistic esophagitis and the radiologic evaluation of esophageal motility disorders in patients with chest pain. Double-contrast pharyngography is a valuable technique for detecting pharyngeal tumors. These lesions may be manifested by an intraluminal mass, mucosal irregularity, or asymmetric distensibility. Furthermore, barium studies may demonstrate lesions involving the valleculae, tongue base, lower hypopharynx, and pharyngoesophageal segment that are difficult to visualize at endoscopy. Double-contrast radiography is also a valuable technique for detecting opportunistic esophagitis and for differentiating the underlying causes. Mucosal plaques should suggest Candida esophagitis, whereas discrete ulcers should suggest herpes esophagitis, and one or more large, relatively flat ulcers should suggest cytomegalovirus esophagitis. Finally, in evaluating patients with chest pain, in only a small percentage are esophageal motility disorders found to be a possible cause of their pain. Instead, the majority are found to have cardiac disease, structural esophageal lesions, or gastroesophageal reflux, so that barium studies are more useful in documenting normal motility or structural abnormalities in these patients. 
Effects of diltiazem on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction in patients with and without a history of systemic hypertension. The Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial Research Group. The effect of diltiazem on long-term outcome in patients with acute myocardial infarction with and without a history of systemic hypertension was investigated in 2,466 patients using the Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial data-base. The baseline variables were comparable in the diltiazem and placebo-treated patients within the groups with and without hypertension. The initial 60-mg dose of diltiazem was associated with a significant (p less than 0.001) but modest (3%) reduction in blood pressure and heart rate in both groups with and without hypertension. Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed a meaningful overall reduction in first recurrent cardiac events (cardiac death or nonfatal reinfarction, whichever occurred first) and cardiac death in patients with hypertension treated with diltiazem compared with results in those treated with placebo. Similar effects were not observed in patients without a history of hypertension. When first recurrent cardiac events were used as the end point, the diltiazem:placebo hazard ratio (95% confidence limits) was 0.77 (0.58, 1.01) for the total hypertension group, and 0.67 (0.47, 0.96) and 1.32 (0.83, 2.10) for patients with hypertension with and without pulmonary congestion during the acute infarction, respectively. Similar results were observed using cardiac death as the end point. Beta blockers had a negligible effect on the hypertension-diltiazem relation. These findings suggest that diltiazem may exert a long-term beneficial effect in most patients with hypertension who do not have pulmonary congestion during an acute infarction, and a detrimental effect in the minority who have pulmonary congestion. 
Chronic neurologic manifestations of Lyme disease BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Lyme disease, caused by the tick-borne spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi, is associated with a wide variety of neurologic manifestations. To define further the chronic neurologic abnormalities of Lyme disease, we studied 27 patients (age range, 25 to 72 years) with previous signs of Lyme disease, current evidence of immunity to B. burgdorferi, and chronic neurologic symptoms with no other identifiable cause. Eight of the patients had been followed prospectively for 8 to 12 years after the onset of infection. RESULTS. Of the 27 patients, 24 (89 percent) had a mild encephalopathy that began 1 month to 14 years after the onset of the disease and was characterized by memory loss, mood changes, or sleep disturbance. Of the 24 patients, 14 had memory impairment on neuropsychological tests, and 18 had increased cerebrospinal fluid protein levels, evidence of intrathecal production of antibody to B. burgdorferi, or both. Nineteen of the 27 patients (70 percent) had polyneuropathy with radicular pain or distal paresthesias; all but two of these patients also had encephalopathy. In 16 patients electrophysiologic testing showed an axonal polyneuropathy. One patient had leukoencephalitis with asymmetric spastic diplegia, periventricular white-matter lesions, and intrathecal production of antibody to B. burgdorferi. Among the 27 patients, associated symptoms included fatigue (74 percent), headache (48 percent), arthritis (37 percent), and hearing loss (15 percent). At the time of examination, chronic neurologic abnormalities had been present from 3 months to 14 years, usually with little progression. Six months after a two-week course of intravenous ceftriaxone (2 g daily), 17 patients (63 percent) had improvement, 6 (22 percent) had improvement but then relapsed, and 4 (15 percent) had no change in their condition. CONCLUSIONS. Months to years after the initial infection with B. burgdorferi, patients with Lyme disease may have chronic encephalopathy, polyneuropathy, or less commonly, leukoencephalitis. These chronic neurologic abnormalities usually improve with antibiotic therapy. 
Automatic and effortful memory processes in elderly persons with organic brain pathology. This study investigated the automatic and effortful memory encoding model of Hasher and Zacks (1979) and the potential it may hold for aiding in the differentiation between aging-related memory decline and dementia. College students, normal elders, and dementia patients were compared on a 96-item picturebook task utilizing measures of free recall, recognition accuracy, memory for location, and memory for frequency. There were no differences between students and elders on any of the dependent measures. However, differences were found between elders and patients on each measure, and a discriminant function correctly classified the two groups with 93.3% accuracy. Subsequent discriminant analysis found patients could be correctly classified into diagnostic subgroups, i.e., dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT), multi-infarct dementia (MID), and Korsakoff's disease (KD) with 80.8% accuracy. The model holds promise as a guide for clinicians who are asked to make differential diagnoses of memory-impaired individuals. 
Postpartum hypercalcemia in a patient with medullary sponge kidneys. Previous associations of primary hyperparathyroidism-induced hypercalcemia and medullary sponge kidney (MSK) have been reported. In this report, we describe a lactating woman MSK noted to be hypercalcemic throughout lactation, without evidence of hyperparathyroidism. After the baby was weaned, the serum calcium returned to normal. A bone biopsy performed while the patient was hypercalcemic was consistent with hyperparathyroidism, suggesting the presence of a parathyroid-like protein produced during lactation. 
Survival determinants in extensive-stage non-small-cell lung cancer: the Southwest Oncology Group experience. We analyzed the 2,531-patient Southwest Oncology Group extensive-stage non-small-cell lung cancer (ENSCLC) data base from 1974 to 1988 to (1) assess the interactions of host- or tumor-related prognostic factors and therapy using Cox modeling and recursive partitioning and amalgamation (RPA) to determine whether each independently predicts outcome, and (2) use RPA to define prognostic subsets with different survival potentials. Good performance status (PS), female sex, and age greater than or equal to 70 years were significant independent predictors in a Cox model applied to the entire population. In a second Cox model for patients with good PS enrolled on recent studies, hemoglobin level greater than or equal to 11.0 g/dL, normal lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), normal calcium, and a single metastatic site were significant favorable factors. The use of cisplatin was an additional independent predictor of improved outcome in both Cox models after adjustments for year of accrual and all prognostic variables. The favorable effect of cisplatin was observed in each of six RPA-derived subgroups from the entire population. A second RPA of 904 patients from recent trials (nearly all received cisplatin-based therapy) resulted in three distinct prognostic subsets based on PS, age, hemoglobin, and LDH; greater than or equal to 1-year survivals were 27%, 16%, and 6% (P less than .0001). The best survival occurred for patients with a good PS who had a hemoglobin level greater than or equal to 11 g/dL and who were older than 47 years. This analysis suggests that although several factors were independent variables in the Cox models, three important prognostic subgroups were easily defined through RPA. Together with other analyses, our results suggest the need to modify the stage IV category in NSCLC. 
Current medical management of cirrhotic ascites. The presence of ascites may indicate a number of hepatic and extra-hepatic disorders. This situation requires comprehensive evaluation to determine the underlying cause. The evaluation and management of ascites in patients with known cirrhosis is very important since this manifestation of portal hypertension has a detrimental effect on the prognosis for such patients. 
Visceral and peripheral tissue perfusion after cardiac surgery. Visceral and peripheral tissue perfusion and oxygenation were studied in ten patients in the early phase after coronary artery bypass grafting. Visceral perfusion was assessed indirectly, by determining gastric intramucosal pH. As parameters of peripheral tissue perfusion and oxygenation, subcutaneous tissue PO2 (PscO2), transcutaneous PO2 (PtcO2). PtcO2 index (PtcO2/PaO2), laser-Doppler skin red-cell flux (RCF) and fingertip temperature (Tft) were recorded in the upper extremity. Central haemodynamics, rectal temperature and blood gases were also measured. The inspired oxygen concentration was maintained at 30 v/v%. Gastric intramucosal pH declined progressively during the first 3 hours in the intensive care unit, reached its minimum at 5 hours and thereafter slowly increased. The peripheral vascular bed was shut down on admission to the ICU, as indicated by low values of PscO2, PtcO2, PtCO2 index, RCF and Tft. These parameters began to rise after the next 2-4 hours and peaked by the end of the 8-hour study period, indicating complete opening of the peripheral vascular bed. 
Neutrophil-endothelial cell interaction in critical illness. Sepsis syndrome frequently results in endothelial injury in many organ systems. To evaluate neutrophil-pulmonary endothelial cell interaction in the sepsis syndrome, we studied 39 critically ill patients prospectively and 20 normal volunteers. Thirteen patients with sepsis (mean age, 71.4 years), 14 patients in an intensive care unit control group (mean age 65.4 years), and 12 patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction (mean age, 66.8 years) were evaluated. Blood samples were drawn from septic patients within 24 hours and from ICU and MI patients within 72 hours of admission. All sepsis patients were culture positive, 6 of 13 from the blood. Both renal failure and ARDS developed in 54 percent of septic patients. 51Cr-labelled neutrophils were prepared and added to bovine pulmonary endothelial cell monolayers with and without added phorbol myristate acetate. Endothelial cells with adherent PMA and nonadherent PMN's, were harvested and radioactivity in each fraction measured with a gamma scintillation counter. Baseline and maximally stimulated (PMA, 3.0 ng/ml) neutrophil adherence to endothelial cells were similar in all patients groups. However, in septic patients, PMA-stimulated PMN adherence was reduced at lower doses, most significantly in those who developed ARDS within 24 to 48 hours of admission (p less than 0.05). Seventy-one percent of patients who developed ARDS had reduced stimulated adherence (PMA 1.0 ng/ml) compared to 22 percent of critically ill patients who did not. We conclude that diminished adherence of neutrophils to endothelium in response to low-level PMA stimulation is significantly more common in patients with sepsis who develop ARDS. Our findings suggest that PMN-endothelial cell interaction is altered by the time sepsis is clinically recognized but before the development of ARDS. We speculate that the observed reduction in adherence of the PMN to endothelial cells may be a consequence of down-regulation by mediators generated in the inflammatory response to sepsis and/or the need for active participation of septic endothelium in this interaction. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus and lymphoma: association with antiphospholipid syndrome. A woman with a history of polyarthralgias appeared to develop systemic lupus erythematosus and lymphoma simultaneously. The diagnosis of the concurrent lymphoma was made on biopsy of a left axillary lymph node. Generalized lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and pruritus had given rise to suspicion of an underlying lymphoma. The lymphoma responded well to chemotherapy. Her condition was further complicated by an arterial occlusion involving the right 2nd toe which was eventually amputated, transient ischemic attacks (amaurosis fugax), livedo reticularis and thrombocytopenia which were accompanied by elevations of IgM anticardiolipin antibodies and a biological false test for syphilis. The lupus anticoagulant test was not performed as she was given anticoagulation therapy. 
Determinants of successful transthoracic defibrillation and outcome in ventricular fibrillation. OBJECTIVE--To examine factors determining defibrillation success and outcome in patients with ventricular fibrillation. DESIGN--Observational prospective study of age, sex, transthoracic impedance, site of cardiac arrest, ventricular fibrillation duration and amplitude, primary or secondary ventricular fibrillation, aetiology, number of shocks to correct ventricular fibrillation, and drug treatment. SETTING--A teaching hospital and a mobile coronary care unit with a physician. PATIENTS--70 consecutive patients (50 male, 20 female) mean age 66.5 years. INTERVENTIONS--Before the first countershock was administered transthoracic impedance using a 30 kHz low amplitude AC current passed through 8 cm/12 cm self-adhesive defibrillator electrode pads applied in the anteroapical position was measured. The first two shocks were 200 J delivered energy (low energy) and further shocks of 360 J (high energy) were given if required. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Countershock success and outcome from ventricular fibrillation. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS--First shock success was significantly greater in inhospital arrests (37/53) than in out-of-hospital arrests (5/17) and in those receiving antiarrhythmic treatment (13/15, 86.7%) v (27/51, 52.9%). Transthoracic impedance was similar in those who were successfully defibrillated with one or two 200 J shocks (98.7 (26) omega) and those who required one or more 360 J shocks (91.4 (23) omega). Success rates with two 200 J shocks were similar in those patients with "high" transthoracic impedance (that is, greater than 115 omega) and those with transthoracic impedance (less than or equal to 115 omega) (8/12 (67%) v 44/58 (76%]. Fine ventricular fibrillation was significantly more common in the patients with a transthoracic impedance of greater than 95 omega (41% (13/32] than in those with a transthoracic impedance less than or equal to 95 omega (13% (5/38]. Death during arrest was significantly more common in patients who needed high energy shocks (14/18 (78%] than in those who needed low energy shocks (16/52 (31%]. Multiple regression analysis identified ventricular fibrillation with an amplitude of greater than or equal to 0.5 mV, age less than or equal to 70 years, and arrests that needed less than or equal to two shocks for defibrillation, in rank order as independent predictors of survival to discharge. 
Prediction of prognosis in primary breast cancer by detection of a high molecular weight mucin-like antigen using monoclonal antibodies DF3, F36/22, and CU18: a Cancer and Leukemia Group B study Three monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) (DF3, F36/22, CU18) were used to monitor expression of distinct epitopes present within a family of mucin-like, breast carcinoma-associated molecules. Primary tumor specimens from more than 190 stage II breast cancer patients were evaluated for expression of the high molecular weight antigens. With a median follow-up of 6 years, patients whose tumors exhibited high immunoperoxidase staining scores (greater than 50% positive cells) with MAb DF3 had a superior disease-free survival ([DFS] 56% +/- 6% v 37% +/- 5% at 6 years; P = .0088) and overall survival ([OS] 72% +/- 5% v 59% +/- 5% at 6 years; P = .025). Staining scores with the other two antibodies did not correlate with improved prognosis. For MAbs DF3 and CU18, patients whose tumors exhibited predominantly apical cellular reactivity patterns had improved DFS, although differences reached conventional levels of statistical significance only with MAb CU18. In multivariate analyses, the prognostic value of MAb DF3 staining was independent of other identified prognostic factors. Furthermore, the concordance between primary and axillary lymph node metastases staining with each MAb was 73%, 80%, and 85% for MAbs DF3, F36/22, and CU18, respectively. These results suggest that staining with MAb DF3 identifies a group of node-positive women with a relatively favorable prognosis. Expression of the DF3 mucin-like glycoprotein is related to better differentiation, and staining with MAb DF3 provides an accurate and objective estimate of clinical outcome independent of histopathologic evaluation. 
Cerebral edema causing death in children with maple syrup urine disease. Four children with the classic form of maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) died of cerebral edema during an intercurrent infection that caused severe dehydration and acidosis. The diagnosis of MSUD had been established during the neonatal period in all four patients, on day 1 of life in three of them. All were in satisfactory control before the intercurrent illness. Two patients underwent peritoneal dialysis. Signs of brain-stem compression occurred after treatment, when biochemical abnormalities were improving. Computed tomography of the head, which was done in two patients, revealed cerebral edema; one of these patients also had subarachnoid hemorrhage. Autopsy in one case revealed cerebral edema with herniation. Our experience documents that cerebral edema may occur in the older child with MSUD as well as in the neonate. The pathogenesis of cerebral edema in MSUD remains unclear. Early treatment of dehydration and acidosis may prevent the catastrophic consequences that we have observed. 
Amino acid substitutions in the coat protein result in loss of insect transmissibility of a plant virus. Amino acids near the N terminus of the coat protein of tobacco vein mottling virus were deleted or altered by site-directed mutagenesis to determine the effect on aphid transmissibility of the virus. Deletion of a three amino acid sequence Asp-Ala-Gly, which is conserved in aphid-transmissible potyvirus isolates, abolished transmission. The mutation Ala----Thr in this triplet drastically reduced transmission, whereas the mutation Asp----Asn had no effect, and the mutation Asp----Lys consistently reverted to the wild-type residue. The mutation Lys----Glu, in the residue adjacent to the glycine of the triplet, drastically reduced transmission, whereas the mutation Gln----Pro, seven residues downstream from the glycine had no effect. Comparison of the sequences of other potyviruses suggests that the presence of a glycine residue at the third position of the Asp-Ala-Gly triplet is critical for aphid transmissibility and that certain changes in the residues adjacent to this position abolish or greatly reduce aphid transmissibility. 
Radiologic findings of clonorchiasis. Clonorchiasis is a trematodiasis caused by chronic infestation of liver flukes, Clonorchis sinensis. The adult flukes reside in the medium-sized and small intrahepatic bile ducts and, occasionally, in the extrahepatic bile ducts, gallbladder, and pancreatic duct. The result is mechanical obstruction, inflammatory reaction, adenomatous hyperplasia, and periductal fibrosis. Signs and symptoms are usually mild and nonspecific, but heavy infestation results in obstructive jaundice. The disease has a close relationship with recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma. In this article, the radiologic findings, including cholangiography, sonography, and CT of clonorchiasis are reviewed in light of the pathophysiology of the disease. The relationship to recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and to cholangiocarcinoma is discussed. 
Diverticula of the female urethra: diagnosis by endovaginal and transperineal sonography. Diverticula of the female urethra can be difficult to diagnose. Invasive contrast studies (voiding cystourethrography or double-balloon urethrography) or urethroscopy are frequently required for definitive diagnosis. Although transabdominal sonography has been able to visualize large diverticula, this technique has not proved useful in routine screening. In this study, we examined the use of higher frequency (5 MHz) near-focus endovaginal or transperineal sonography for the diagnosis of urethral diverticula. Five patients with radiographically proved (three with double-balloon urethrography and two with voiding cystourethrography) urethral diverticula were examined with endovaginal (two cases) or transperineal (four cases) sonography. In all five cases, sonography showed the diverticula previously demonstrated on the contrast study. The spatial relationship of the diverticula to the urethra, an important consideration at surgery, was shown more clearly by sonography than by contrast radiography. These findings suggest that sonography may be useful as a noninvasive screening technique for urethral diverticula. 
Hypercapnic and hypoxic ventilatory responses in parents and siblings of children with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome. Children with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) have abnormal ventilatory responses to metabolic stimuli. As there is a genetically determined component of chemoreceptor sensitivity, parents and siblings of children with CCHS may also have blunted ventilatory responses to hypercapnea and hypoxia. To test this, we studied hypercapnic ventilatory responses and hypoxic ventilatory responses in six mothers, four fathers, and five siblings (6 to 49 yr of age) of seven children with CCHS and compared them with 15 age- and sex-matched control subjects (5 to 47 yr of age). Pulmonary function tests were not different between relatives of children with CCHS and control subjects. To measure hypercapnic ventilatory responses, subjects rebreathed 5% CO2/95% O2 until PACO2 reached 60 to 70 mm Hg. To measure hypoxic ventilatory responses (L/min/% SaO2), subjects rebreathed 14% O2/7% CO2/balance N2 at mixed venous PCO2 until SaO2 fell to 75%. All tests were completed in less than 4 min. Instantaneous minute ventilation, mean inspiratory flow (tidal volume/inspiratory time), and respiratory timing (inspiratory timing/total respiratory cycle timing) were calculated on a breath-by-breath basis. Hypercapnic ventilatory responses were 1.97 +/- 0.32 L/min/mm Hg PACO2 in children with CCHS relatives and 2.23 +/- 0.23 L/min/mm Hg PACO2 in control subjects. Hypoxic ventilatory responses were -1.99 +/- 0.37 L/min/% SaO2 in the relatives and -1.54 +/- 0.25 L/min/% SaO2 in the control subjects. 
Clinical pathology of endocrine tumors of the pancreas. Analysis of autopsy cases. A clinicopathological analysis of endocrine tumors of the pancreas, using 800 autopsy cases (422 men, 378 women, mean age 78.7) was accomplished. The results were: (1) Endocrine tumors and similar lesions were found in 3% or 24 cases (25 lesions). Twenty lesions (20 cases) were found to be tumors and five lesions (five cases) were determined to be hyperplasia of Langerhans islets. (2) Incidence of tumor was 10% (6/60) in individuals having histological studies of all sections of the pancreas, and 1.6% (12/738) in individuals having histological studies of three random sections of the pancreas. (3) None of the cases with tumors and hyperplastic lesions showed symptoms of hormone production. (4) Immunohistochemical analysis revealed hormone production in all 20 tumor cases and multiple hormone production was found in 14 of these (70%). (5) Ductular or tubular structures were found in or adjacent to the tumors in 12 cases (60%) and hyperplasia in one case (20%). Langerhans islets, 500 microns or larger in size, were found in three lesions of the tumor (15%). Langerhans islets with the mean diameter of normal islets + 2 SD or larger also were found around five tumors (25%) and three hyperplasias (60%). The above findings suggest that endocrine tumors of the pancreas are prevalent and that they do not produce symptoms of excessive hormone production even though they do continue to produce hormones. Some of the endocrine tumors or hyperplasias develop from totipotent stem cells of the duct epithelia, and factors promoting the growth of Langerhans islets might exist. 
ECMO in premature infants. Review of factors associated with mortality. During the first few years of clinical research on neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), 16 premature infants of less than 35 weeks gestational age were treated by the authors (RHB), and only four (25%) survived. Intracranial hemorrhage was common, prompting the authors to recommend that ECMO not be used in premature infants with respiratory failure. Since diagnostic methods, indications, and techniques of extracorporeal support have improved considerably, the records of these previous cases were reviewed in detail to determine if there was reason to believe that results might be better in the modern era. Of the 16 patients, four had pre-ECMO conditions that would now be considered contraindications and five of the remaining patients had major technical complications that are now rare. Anticoagulation and fluid management of these patients also would be handled much differently. Based on this review and on current experience with extracorporeal support in near-term infants, it is reasonable to expect that survival of moribund premature infants might be 50% or greater with extracorporeal support. New phase I trials using improved indications and technology are suggested. 
Activation of phospholipase D by E-series prostaglandins in human erythroleukemia cells. Phospholipase D (PLD) can be activated by a variety of receptor agonists in different cell types. However, an effect of prostaglandins (PGs) on the activity of this enzyme has not been demonstrated previously. In this study, we found that PGE1 could stimulate PLD in human erythroleukemia cells, as measured by phosphatidylethanol formation, with an ED50 of 3.5 x 10(-7) M. PGE2 was also active, but other PGs including prostacyclin, PGD2 and PGF2, had no effect. PGE1 also elicited cyclic AMP production over the same concentration range that activated PLD. However, it is unlikely that cyclic AMP per se is responsible for PGE-induced PLD activation, because PLD could be substantially activated by PGE2 at concentrations (0.1-1 microM) which did not stimulate cyclic AMP production. Furthermore, no increase of phosphatidylethanol formation could be observed when cells were treated with other adenylyl cyclase-activating agents such as prostacyclin, forskolin and vasoactive intestinal peptide. In Ca+(+)-free medium, PLD activation by PGE1 and PGE2 was greatly reduced, indicating that their effect was through a Ca+(+)-dependent pathway. Pretreatment of cells with pertussis toxin abolished PGE1- and PGE2-stimulated PLD activity, implying the involvement of a G protein in the PGE-mediated signal transduction pathway. Our results not only indicate that E-series PGs may initiate some of their cellular effects through a novel pathway, activation of PLD, but also suggest that PGE-stimulated PLD activity in human erythroleukemia cells is Ca+(+)-dependent and is regulated via a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein. 
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal failure: causes, consequences, and diagnostic uses. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal failure is now a well-recognized phenomenon that appears to occur almost exclusively in patients with a preexisting reduction in renal perfusion pressure, especially those with renovascular disease. In the latter group of patients, renal failure probably results from some combination of reduced poststenotic renal perfusion pressure and a unique disturbance in the autoregulation of glomerular filtration rate. Although traditionally regarded as functional and reversible, recent animal studies suggest that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced reductions of glomerular filtration rate may lead to progressive renal atrophy, an observation that raises concerns about the long-term safety of these agents in patients with renovascular disease. On the other hand, the deleterious consequences of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in renovascular disease have been exploited as aids in the diagnosis of this disorder. Whether the adjunctive use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors will prove to be useful in screening large populations of hypertensive patients for renovascular hypertension remains to be determined. However, such adjunctive tests appear to be useful in judging the functional significance of angiographically documented renal artery stenosis. 
Pacemaker-lead puncture of the tricuspid valve. Successful diagnosis and treatment. During insertion, a transvenous pacing lead pierced the tricuspid valve in a 66-year-old man, causing progressive tricuspid insufficiency and congestive heart failure. The defect remained undiagnosed for ten years and was then repaired. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which this problem has been successfully treated rather than being diagnosed at autopsy. 
Acute and sustained release of the atrial natriuretic factor prohormone N-terminus with acute myocardial infarction. This investigation was designed to determine if acute ischemic cardiac injury causes the release of the 98 amino acid (aa) N-terminus of the 126 aa atrial natriuretic factor prohormone (pro ANF). Seventeen patients with acute myocardial infarction, but without clinical evidence of congestive heart failure, had their circulating concentrations of the whole N-terminus (ie, pro ANF 1-98), the midportion of the N-terminus of the ANF prohormone (consisting of aa 31-67; pro ANF 31-67) and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) monitored daily for 14 days. All seventeen patients had elevated plasma pro ANF 1-98 and pro ANF 31-67 concentrations at the time of presentation. Maximal increase on day three post-infarction correlated with the size of infarction estimated by the maximal CPK (r = 0.675; p less than 0.05) but did not correlate with the amount of left ventricular dysfunction. Another three patients with acute myocardial infarction were treated with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). The measured pro ANF 1-98 and pro ANF 31-67 levels in these patients were within our normal range and significantly lower (p less than 0.001) than seen in patients with acute myocardial infarction not given thrombolytic therapy. Six patients with unstable angina, likewise, had normal circulating pro ANFs 1-98 and 31-67 concentrations during prolonged episodes of chest pain. These data suggest that myocardial necrosis but not ischemia triggers the release of the entire 126 aa prohormone. 
Peritonitis due to Prototheca wickerhamii in a patient undergoing chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. A 72-year-old man who was undergoing chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis developed peritonitis due to Prototheca wickerhamii. Results of in vitro sensitivity testing revealed that the organism was sensitive to amphotericin B (MIC, 0.4 micrograms/mL) but resistant to fluconazole (MIC, greater than 80 micrograms/mL). The patient was successfully treated medically with a combination of intravenous amphotericin B and oral doxycycline. 
Microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm. Patterns of vascular compression in unsuccessfully operated patients. To determine the causative factors of unsuccessful microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm, the follow-up results in 53 patients were assessed retrospectively. The mean follow-up period was 36 months. There were 32 patients who had compression of the seventh cranial nerve ventrocaudally by an anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) or a posterior inferior cerebellar artery. Of these 32 patients, 30 (94%) had excellent postoperative results. Of 14 patients with more severe compression by the vertebral artery, nine (64%) had excellent results, three (21%) had good results, and two (14%) had poor results; in this group, three patients with excellent results experienced transient spasm recurrence. There were seven patients in whom the meatal branch of the AICA coursed between the seventh and eighth cranial nerves and compressed the dorsal aspect of the seventh nerve; this was usually associated with another artery compressing the ventral aspect of the nerve ("sandwich-type" compression). Of these seven patients, five (71%) had poor results including operative failure in one and recurrence of spasm in four. The authors conclude that the clinical outcome was closely related to the patterns of vascular compression. 
Anti-anginal therapy and quality of life. A comparison of the effects of transdermal nitroglycerin and long-acting oral nitrates. A total of 112 male patients with severe effort-induced angina pectoris (New York Heart Association functional classes II and III) participated in a randomized open trial consisting of a 6 month phase with 3 month treatment cross-overs. The aim of the study was to compare the effect of transdermal nitroglycerin (TN) patches and long-acting oral nitrates (LAON) on quality of life (QL). During the cross-over period 30 patients (20 on TN and 10 on LAON) withdrew from the study, over half of them within the first month. Although the results should be interpreted with some caution, they showed that improvement in QL was present for both treatments but greater during the transdermal therapy (unadjusted p = 0.07, adjusted p = 0.03). Anginal attacks were associated with improved QL scores, and fewer attacks occurred on TN (p = 0.06). Improvement in QL was most pronounced in patients whose recorded duration of angina was less than 8 years. 
Method and theory of monophasic action potential recording. MAP recordings have been at the cradle of cardiac electrophysiology but only recently, through safer and simpler technology, have gained wider access to clinical electrophysiology. In contrast to conventional electrode catheter recordings, MAP recording devices provide precise information not only of the local activation time but of the entire local repolarization time course as well. Although the MAP does not reflect the absolute amplitude or upstroke velocity of transmembrane action potentials, it delivers highly accurate information on the action potential duration and configuration, including early afterdepolarizations as well as relative changes in transmembrane diastolic and systolic potential changes. Based on available data, the MAP probably reflects the transmembrane voltage of cells within a few millimeters of the exploring electrode. MAPs can be recorded by catheter technique from the endocardial surface and by special probes from the epicardium in the operating room. The contact electrode technique is preferable over suction electrodes because it is safer and simpler to use in patients and because it produces more stable, longer-lasting signals. A modified contact MAP catheter incorporates pacing electrodes and permits simultaneous assessment of action potential duration and refractoriness. This not only facilitates the use of MAP catheters in routine electrophysiological studies but also is important for assessing the voltage-independent effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on refractoriness. MAP recordings offer the opportunity to study, in the in situ heart, a variety of pertinent electrophysiological phenomena including, for example, effects of cycle length changes and antiarrhythmic drugs on action potential duration or the role of afterdepolarizations in the genesis of triggered arrhythmias. Due to vigorous heart beating, movement artifacts may occur and need to be distinguished from true abnormalities in the action potential time course. With these limitations in mind, MAP recordings are a valuable addition to clinical electrophysiological studies. 
Screening for sleep apnea using pulse oximetry and a clinical score. Confirmation of the diagnosis of OSA currently requires overnight polysomnography. This study evaluates the usefulness of pulse oximetry together with a clinical score in identifying OSA. Forty patients were assigned a clinical score based on the presence or absence of loud snoring, observations of interrupted breathing during sleep, hypersomnolence, obesity and essential hypertension. Each underwent a night of domiciliary pulse oximetry followed by nocturnal polysomnography. Significant OSA was confirmed in 26. All 15 patients with positive pulse oximetry tracings had significant OSA (apnea index greater than or equal to 10). Five of eight with negative tracings were also shown to have significant OSA along with six of the seven patients with inadequate or indeterminate tracings. Clinical scores were significantly different for those with and without OSA. This study confirms the usefulness of nocturnal pulse oximetry in establishing the diagnosis of OSA and highlights the value of a clinical score in improving its sensitivity as a screening tool. 
Hemodynamic and metabolic responses to graded microvascular occlusion. The hemodynamic and metabolic consequences of microvascular occlusion, often present in the runoff bed of distal arterial reconstructions, have been difficult to quantitate clinically. To investigate these pathophysiologic relationships, a porcine hindlimb model was developed in which arteriolar patency, which we term outflow capacity, may be quantitatively defined and reduced by serial distal microembolization with 70 microns flow-directed glass bubbles. In 10 anesthetized adult pigs, hindlimb perfusion was limited to femoral artery flow (FAF) by collateral ligation. Serial measurements of outflow resistance (OR), femoral artery flow, and resting muscle pH (mpH), a metabolic index of tissue perfusion, were made as relative outflow capacity (ROC) underwent graded reduction from 1.0 (baseline) to 0 (complete occlusion). Femoral artery flow decreased linearly (FAF = 87 ROC - 3), and outflow resistance increased in hyperbolic fashion (OR = 1.66/ROC) in response to graded peripheral microembolization, whereas resting muscle pH followed a more complex relationship (In mpH = 0.055 ROC + 1.95). An integrated analysis of these results suggests that a 50% to 60% reduction in arteriolar patency represents a critical point beyond which outflow resistance rises rapidly and hindlimb flow decreases to levels that are inadequate to support the metabolic demands of resting tissues. 
The fibromyalgia impact questionnaire: development and validation. An instrument has been developed to assess the current health status of women with the fibromyalgia syndrome. The Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) is a brief 10-item, self-administered instrument that measures physical functioning, work status, depression, anxiety, sleep, pain, stiffness, fatigue, and well being. We describe its development and validation. This initial assessment indicates that the FIQ has sufficient evidence of reliability and validity to warrant further testing in both research and clinical situations. 
Effect of salbutamol on gastroesophageal reflux in healthy volunteers and patients with asthma. The aim of this work was to establish whether beta-adrenergic agonists promote or increase gastroesophageal reflux in patients with asthma. Ten healthy individuals and eight patients with asthma were studied on 2 different days. One day they received a placebo, and the other day they received 4 mg of salbutamol by mouth. Complete measurements of esophageal manometry were performed before and every 30 minutes for 210 minutes after the administration of the drugs. Esophageal pH was measured continuously for the duration of the experiment. The results demonstrate that (1) salbutamol had no effect on the lower esophageal sphincter pressure gradient, the peak esophageal contraction pressure, or the number and duration of reflux episodes in patients with asthma and normal individuals, and (2) patients with asthma have a resting lower esophageal sphincter pressure higher than healthy subjects. We conclude that the administration of salbutamol does not affect esophageal function. 
Neurotoxicity of intraventricularly administered alpha-interferon for leptomeningeal disease. Nine patients with leptomeningeal disease are reported who were treated with intraventricular alpha-interferon (alpha-IFN). In seven of these patients, a progressive vegetative state developed during treatment. The patients became unresponsive to verbal commands but opened their eyes with auditory or tactile stimulation. It took an average of 3 weeks for these patients to become verbally responsive after treatment was discontinued. Electroencephalographic findings showed evidence of irritative involvement of the deep midline nuclei in 80% of patients. Periventricular white matter changes developed during treatment in three of six patients who underwent computed tomographic scans. All patients with this severe neurotoxicity received whole-brain irradiation before treatment. Possible mechanisms for the development of this neurotoxic syndrome are discussed. The neurotoxicity of alpha-IFN and brain irradiation may be additive, suggesting a cautious approach when using this combination for treatment. 
The survival of total knee arthroplasty in patients with osteonecrosis of the medial condyle. The results of total knee arthroplasty in patients with osteonecrosis of the medial femoral condyle were examined using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. The study included 32 osteonecrotic knees with an average final follow-up examination of 3.9 years. For comparison, 63 osteoarthrotic knees with an average final follow-up examination of 4.6 years were also analyzed. The survival rates were calculated using four distinct categories of failure: (1) revision, (2) revision or radiolucency, (3) revision, radiolucency, or pain, and (4) pain. On the basis of pain relief alone, the five-year postoperative success rate was 82% for osteonecrosis (eight knees) and 90% for osteoarthrosis (27 knees), with no significant statistical difference between the two groups. 
Emergency department presentation of renal dialysis patients: indications for EMS transport directly to dialysis centers. To determine the pattern of emergency department (ED) utilization by renal dialysis (RD) patients, a prospective study was conducted of dialysis patients presenting to the ED of a regional dialysis center. The most common presenting complaints were shortness of breath (SOB), chest pain, abdominal pain, and vomiting; the most common diagnoses were congestive heart failure, chest wall pain, and electrolyte abnormalities. Interventional dialysis (ID), defined as emergent dialysis required to treat the patient's presenting complaint, was required for 30 patients, with the most common presenting complaints of these patients being shortness of breath, weakness, and chest pain. Only SOB was statistically significant in predicting the need for ID (P less than 0.001), with a positive predictive value of 0.63 and a negative predictive value of 0.85. Prehospital implications of these data suggest that RD patients with a chief complaint of SOB should be transported directly to a facility capable of dialysis on an emergent basis. 
Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging for assessment and follow-up of patients with valve disease. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging now offers a powerful means of assessing a variety of clinically important parameters in patients with valvular heart disease. NMR approaches will probably be most useful in patients with chronic valvular regurgitation, in which there continues to be uncertainty regarding the optimum timing for surgical intervention. In these patients it is possible to simultaneously assess both the valvular regurgitation and the resulting changes in myocardial structure and function. In patients with aortic stenosis, NMR can be applied to the assessment of left ventricular mass, both before and after valvuloplasty or valve replacement. In mitral stenosis, NMR may be applied to the assessment of right ventricular volumes and function. NMR may be used for the detection of prosthetic valve regurgitation when Doppler studies are equivocal. Finally, NMR imaging may be applied in patients with congenital or aortic root disease to evaluate valvular function in addition to diagnostic assessment of such patients. The future development of isotropic three-dimensional acquisition approaches, ultrafast imaging strategies, automated surface detection techniques, and more rapid function and flow analysis could considerably enhance the use of the current NMR approaches. The application of spectroscopic techniques could provide a means of monitoring myocardial metabolic abnormalities in ventricles exposed to chronic overload. Meanwhile, in patients with valvular regurgitation and stenosis, it would seem timely to initiate long-term serial NMR studies to further define natural history and the effects of various medical regimens and to ultimately help determine optimum medical and interventional regimens. 
Calcium antagonists: an overview. Calcium antagonists reduce the influx of calcium ions through the calcium channels. This causes a reduction in myocardial contractility or a fall in vascular resistance because of a lowering of vascular smooth muscle tone. Therefore, the net effect is a fall in blood pressure. The three major classes of calcium antagonists, the dihydropyridines, papaverine derivatives, and benzothiazepines, differ in molecular structure and their binding characteristics to the calcium channels. Furthermore, newer antagonists, particularly the dihydropyridines such as nicardipine, have a high affinity for vascular tissue and are highly selective for vascular smooth muscle. These compounds also have a favorable effect on hypertension mainly because of lowering of vascular resistance. In addition, they do not cause potentially negative metabolic effects on glucose or lipid levels and are generally well tolerated. Based on these findings, the Joint National Committee in the United States and the World Health Organization/International Society of Hypertension Committee on the Management of Mild Hypertension recommended the use of calcium antagonists as first-line treatment in hypertension. 
Prognostic value of proliferative activity in lymph node metastases of patients with breast cancer. Whether the proliferative activity of distant metastases could be predicted by the proliferation in axillary lymph node metastases was investigated in 304 lymph nodes metastases of 52 patients with breast cancer who had not received adjuvant treatment. The standard deviation of the mean mitotic index (MI)--the average number of mitoses per field in 10 high power fields--was of the best prognostic valve in univariate survival analysis. None of the classic (volume % epithelium and stroma) or morphometric features (nuclear area, nuclear axis ratio. shape factors) provided significant results. In Cox regression analysis a multivariate combination of the mean MI, the SD of the mean MI, and the maximum MI emerged, which provided a satisfying means of differentiating patients with a good (68% survival) and a poor (28% survival) prognosis. Proliferation variables derived from axillary lymph node metastases of patients with breast cancer can predict the clinical course of distant metastases. 
Nonoperative management of splenic injuries. The traditional management of splenic trauma has undergone major revision in recent years. Given the physiological importance of the spleen, certain controversy has arisen regarding the most appropriate method of managing this type of trauma. Nonoperative therapy in children has proven to be successful not only in the case of kidney lesions but also for splenic lesions. Nonoperative management carried out in the authors' hospital on a group of 56 patients (49 adults and seven children over the age of 7 years) has proved successful in 37 cases. The success of this technique requires a well-formulated protocol, diagnostic methods (ultrasound and computed tomography), rigorous patient control in the emergency room during the initial phase (first 48 hours), the availability of a medical team if surgical intervention becomes necessary (persistent or recurrent hemorrhage), and complementary measures which facilitate the cicatrization of the splenic injury (bed rest, antibiotic therapy). 
Eight-year outcome in infants with birth weight of 500 to 999 grams: continuing regional study of 1979 and 1980 births. Victorian Infant Collaborative Study Group. The outcome at a mean age of 8.3 years was determined for 88 of 89 surviving children with birth weights of 500 to 999 gm who were born in Victoria in 1979 and 1980; the condition of the untraced child, severely disabled at 5 years of age, was assumed to be unchanged at 8 years. Principal impairments in the children at 8 years of age were cerebral palsy 8 (9%); bilateral blindness 6 (6.7%) and poor vision in another 4 (4.5%); bilateral deafness requiring amplification 5 (5.6%); and epilepsy 2 (2.2%). The Full Scale score of the Weschler Intelligence Scales for Children--Revised was available for 77 children: 5 scores (6.5%) were less than 71 (low IQ), and 9 (11.7%) were between 71 and 85 (borderline IQ). Severe disability in 16 children (18%) was due to severe cerebral palsy, bilateral blindness, or low IQ. Mild or moderate disability was present in another 18 children (20.2%) with borderline IQ, mild or moderate cerebral palsy, poor vision, deafness, or epilepsy. Significantly more outborn children (10/18, 55.6%) than inborn children (24/71, 33.8%) were disabled. Ten children required special schooling; reading accuracy or comprehension was at least 18 months behind chronologic age in 17 (23%) of 75 children in normal school who were tested. The 2-year assessment correctly estimated the category of disability at 8 years of age in 55 (62%), overestimated it in 24 (27%), and underestimated it in 10 (11%). For the 82 children also seen at 5 years age, the category of disability at 8 years of age was correctly identified in 69 children (84%), overestimated in 4 (5%), and underestimated in 9 (11%). Change in psychologic test scores was the principal reason for reclassifying children. We conclude that the 2-yar assessment was valuable in the early identification of most of the severely disabled children, but developmental delay at 2 years of age did not always portend intellectual impairment at 8 years of age. 
Mixed acid fermentation of glucose as a mechanism of emphysematous urinary tract infection. Emphysematous pyelonephritis is a severe necrotizing infection that usually occurs in patients with diabetes mellitus or obstructive uropathy. Although glucose fermentation has been considered as the main cause of gas production the actual mechanism remains controversial. Compositions of gas samples from 2 patients with emphysematous pyelonephritis recently encountered were analyzed, and showed 15% hydrogen, 4.8% carbon dioxide, 60% nitrogen, 6.7% oxygen and some unknown gases in case 1, and 3.4% hydrogen, 22% carbon dioxide, 66% nitrogen and 9.8% oxygen in case 2. These results tend to implicate mixed acid fermentation of glucose as the pathway by which emphysematous urinary tract infections develop. 
Does hyperkinetic circulation constitute a pre-hypertensive stage? A 5-year follow-up of haemodynamics in young men with mild blood pressure elevation. In a previous haemodynamic examination, 44 young men (18-22 years) with blood pressure elevation above the 98th percentile, mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) greater than or equal to 95 +/- 6 mm Hg, showed an increased cardiac index (dye-dilution) and an enhanced resistance at maximal vasodilation of the hand (venous occlusion plethysmography during hyperaemia). This latter finding suggested arteriolar wall hypertrophy. However, the subgroup with the highest cardiac index (greater than or equal to 3.86 1 min-1 x m2) (n = 18) displayed normal vascular resistance at maximal dilation in comparison with the normotensive control group (n = 29). Consequently, functional signs of arteriolar hypertrophy were restricted to individuals with normal or low cardiac index. At the re-investigation 5 years later, a significant reduction in blood pressure was observed in the normotensive control group (MAP: from 88 +/- 7 to 85 +/- 7 mm Hg, P less than 0.05). There was no change in individuals with initially elevated blood pressure. Furthermore, cardiac index fell significantly with time in this latter group. Thus, the blood pressure elevation in the hypertensive group, previously mainly dependent on high blood flow was, 5 years later, more related to an increased total peripheral resistance, (delta total peripheral resistance = 8%). However, no definite evidence indicating development of hypertrophy of the resistance vessels of the hand was observed during the follow-up period. Since the hyperkinetic subgroup did not display a concomitant fall in blood pressure with cardiac output, our results do not support the theory that the hyperkinetic form of borderline hypertension is a temporary phenomenon, explained by the inclusion of anxious individuals afraid of the experimental situation. Hyperkinetic hypertension may be the initial phase of sustained hypertension in a subgroup of the future hypertensive population. 
Nonmelanoma skin cancer mortality. A population-based study. To estimate the magnitude of nonmelanoma skin cancer mortality and describe its parameters, we reviewed the medical records of all deaths certified as due to this cause among Rhode Island residents from 1979 through 1987. After excluding acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated Kaposi's sarcoma, we confirmed that nonmelanoma skin cancer was the cause of death for 51 individuals, a quarter of the number of melanoma deaths reported. The age-adjusted nonmelanoma skin cancer mortality rate was 0.44/10(5) per year. Fifty-nine percent were due to squamous cell carcinoma, and 20% were due to basal cell carcinoma. Most appeared actinically induced. Among deaths from squamous cell carcinoma, the mean age was 73 years. At least 80% of the squamous cell carcinomas metastasized, and 47% arose on the ear. None appeared due to refusal of treatment. Among deaths from basal cell carcinoma, the mean age was 85 years, and refusal of surgical intervention was documented in 40%. Study of nonmelanoma skin cancer mortality provides for estimation of the magnitude of this problem, complements other studies of prognosis, and helps guide prevention, early detection, and treatment. 
Acoustic-distortion products: separation of sensory from neural dysfunction in sensorineural hearing loss in human beings and rabbits. Because distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) provide a noninvasive measure of outer hair-cell (OHC) activity, they should provide a unique and sensitive indicator of the effects of agents that damage hearing. Using DPOAE methods, the present study was designed to assess the relative contributions of the cochlea's outer hair cells to some common sensorineural diseases, including Meniere's disease, acoustic neuroma, and noise-induced, hereditary, and sudden idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss. Parallel evaluations of DPOAEs were performed under essentially identical conditions in rabbit models of several of the human disorders, including noise-induced hearing loss, endolymphatic hydrops, and cochlear neurectomy. Animal studies were performed to assess the proficiency of DPOAEs to track a developing sensorineural deficit as well as to compare patterns of DPOAE dysfunction between clinical and experimental forms of peripheral hearing loss. Detailed measures of DPOAEs were collected in the stimulus-frequency and intensity domains as "audiograms" and response/growth or input/output functions, respectively. The outcome of analyses of both human beings and animals supported the notion that DPOAE testing is sensitive to sensory-cell disease. Thus, in combination with conventional audiometry, DPOAE measures permit a distinction between the relative contribution sensory and neural components of the cochlea make to hearing deficits. 
Acute gall bladder perforation--a dilemma in early diagnosis. Gall bladder perforation is a rare complication of cholecystitis. A definitive diagnosis is uncommon before surgery and the morbidity and mortality associated with this condition are high. We report six patients with gall bladder perforation to show the difficulty of making an early diagnosis. The history and the clinical findings of these patients are reviewed to highlight diagnostic pitfalls. 
Early abdominal complications following heart and heart-lung transplantation. In the first 11 years of the heart and heart-lung transplantation programme at Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, 356 patients underwent heart transplantation, and 73 patients received both heart and lungs. Out of 429 patients 41 (9.5 per cent) developed abdominal complications within the first 30 days, and 20 of the 41 required surgery. The complications included pancreatitis (10), peptic ulceration (8), and pseudo-obstruction (8), in addition to colonic perforation and small bowel obstruction. When laparotomy was performed it was well tolerated. This paper supports the view that successful management of abdominal complications following transplantation requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. Where doubt exists in the presence of an acute abdomen, laparotomy is the appropriate way to establish a definitive diagnosis. 
Comparison of the combined effects of atropine and neostigmine with atropine and edrophonium on the lower oesophageal sphincter. In two groups (n = 11) of healthy patients, we have measured gastric, lower oesophageal and barrier pressures before and after antagonism of neuromuscular block during anaesthesia with nitrous oxide and isoflurane. In one group, atropine 1.2 mg and neostigmine 2.5 mg were given and in the second group atropine 0.6 mg with edrophonium 1 mg/kg. One minute after administration of the reversal agents, there was a significantly greater reduction in barrier pressures in the neostigmine and atropine group than in the edrophonium and atropine group, but subsequently, there was no significant difference between the two groups. We conclude that there is no clinical difference between the two reversal mixtures in terms of the risk of regurgitation in the immediate period after reversal. 
Auditory nerve compound action potentials and brain stem auditory evoked potentials in patients with various degrees of hearing loss. Click-evoked compound action potentials recorded in normal-hearing patients through a monopolar electrode placed on the intracranial portion of the eighth nerve were compared with the responses recorded in patients with high-frequency hearing loss or with high- and low-frequency hearing losses. That multiple peaks appear in the compound action potential in patients with hearing loss implies that click sounds elicit successive and separated volleys of neural excitation in the ascending auditory pathway, whereas click sounds in patients with normal hearing mainly give rise to a single volley of neural activity. This difference in the pattern of auditory nerve activity might explain why there are often multiple peaks in the brain stem auditory evoked potentials in patients with hearing loss and that the peaks are often less well-defined than peaks in patients with normal hearing. 
Determination of severity of valvular aortic stenosis by Doppler echocardiography and relation of findings to clinical outcome and agreement with hemodynamic measurements determined at cardiac catheterization. To determine the relation of Doppler findings to clinical outcome and the agreement between Doppler and cardiac catheterization in the assessment of aortic stenosis (AS) severity, 510 consecutive patients with suspected AS studied in our laboratory were analyzed. Adequate echocardiographic and Doppler examinations were obtained in 498 patients or 98% of the population. Clinical data were available for analysis in 497 patients. In 160 patients, Doppler demonstrated an aortic valve area less than or equal to 0.75 cm2 or a peak jet velocity greater than or equal to 4.5 m/s consistent with critical AS. In the subgroup with cardiac catheterization (n = 105), Doppler was 97% accurate. Aortic valve replacement or balloon valvuloplasty was performed in 109 patients, 106 of whom were symptomatic. Noncritical AS was detected by Doppler in 327 patients, with 95% accuracy in the subgroup with cardiac catheterization (n = 133). Aortic valve replacement was performed in 15 patients with symptoms of AS and with valve areas assessed by Doppler to be between 0.76 and 0.80 cm2 or with peak jet velocities greater than 3.5 m/s. In 20 patients, aortic valve replacement was performed because of moderate to severe aortic regurgitation, and in 11 elderly (greater than 70 years old) patients with valve areas between 0.80 and 1.0 cm2, valve replacement was performed at the time of coronary artery bypass surgery in an attempt to prevent the need for a repeat surgical procedure in the future. These observations allow the following conclusions. In the symptomatic patient with critical or near critical AS by Doppler, cardiac catheterization does not provide additional information beyond that provided by Doppler. 
Lord's procedure--the best operation for hydrocele? A prospective study was carried out to compare Lord's hydrocele operation with traditional surgical procedures. The groups of patients investigated were comparable in terms of age, period of observation, number of previous aspirations and size of hydrocele. The incidence of isolated hydrocele of the spermatic cord, as well as epididymal cysts, was lower in the patients who underwent Lord's procedure (7.2 versus 15.8%), as was the percentage of patients reporting post-operative pain for more than 3 days (4.3 versus 15.8%, p less than 0.05). 
Comparison of commercially available cytokeratin antibodies in normal and neoplastic adult epithelial and non-epithelial tissues. Five commercially available cytokeratin antibodies (lu-5, AE1/AE3, CAM 5.2, MFN116 and anti-cytokeratin 18) were used to stain a wide range of normal and neoplastic epithelial and non-epithelial tissues to assess their potential value in diagnostic histopathology. All five showed good specificity, with some cross-reactivity in smooth muscle cells. The wider reactivity of AE1/AE3, lu-5, and MFN 116, which includes cytokeratins 8,18 (Moll's catalogue) expressed in simple epithelia and their tumours, as well as cytokeratins expressed in complex stratified squamous epithelia, permits identification of a wider range of epithelial derived tumours. This wider spectrum of reactivity may allow these antibodies to be used in a diagnostic panel for the identification of poorly differentiated tumours. 
Improving palliation in pancreatic cancer: intraoperative celiac plexus block for pain relief. Most patients with pancreatic carcinoma are not curable. Surgical palliation of obstructive jaundice and gastric outlet obstruction leaves many patients with severe pain from pancreatic carcinoma. Anesthesiologists have drawn increasing attention to the successful use of postoperative percutaneous celiac plexus block for the treatment of pancreatic pain. Ironically, little attention has been paid to celiac plexus block during laparotomy. We reviewed the cases of 12 patients with pancreatic carcinoma and severe abdominal pain who were treated surgically. All patients had operative celiac plexus block with absolute alcohol at the time of exploratory laparotomy for biliary bypass, gastroenterostomy, or tumor biopsy. Complete postoperative pain relief was obtained in 10 of the 12 patients; two had only partial relief. No operative complications were related to celiac plexus block; one patient died postoperatively of pneumonia. Average postoperative hospital stay was 13 days and average postoperative survival was 3 1/2 months. Most patients had excellent pain relief for at least 2 months or until death. Because most patients treated surgically for pancreatic carcinoma are receiving only palliation with biliary bypass or gastroenterostomy, surgeons should pay increased attention to pain relief. Operative celiac plexus block is easy, safe, and highly effective in relieving the agonizing pain of pancreatic carcinoma. 
Anal tonometry: a quick method of anal manometry. Evaluation of anal sphincter tonic activity is important in the proctologic clinic. However, manometric techniques are expensive, complex, and only available in some centers. Because there is often an in-office need for having objective measurements of anal tonic activity, in our clinic we introduced a simple method for measurement of anal pressures. This method is based on the flow of air in an open circuit by using a rubber probe with a side opening at one end. Pressure is assessed by an ordinary manometric gauge for arterial pressure. With this simple instrument, the following parameters are measured: 1) anal resting pressure, 2) squeeze pressure, 3) functional length of the anal canal, and 4) descent of the perineum on staining. After testing the technique in 100 healthy persons, it was applied to 130 patients with several proctologic disorders. Differences in pressures were found between controls and patients with anal fissure (high resting pressures), and patients with anal incontinence (low resting and/or squeeze pressures). A correlation was also found between the descending perineum measured by this method and by defecography. This simple instrument is useful in the office as the first approach to the function of the anal sphincters and the pelvic floor. Nowadays, so-called anal tonometry is part of the proctologic examination in our department, because it is simple, reliable, and takes only a few minutes. 
Interrelationship of blood transfusion, non-A, non-B hepatitis and hepatocellular carcinoma: analysis by detection of antibody to hepatitis C virus. To clarify the relationship between hepatitis C virus infection and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma as sequelae of non-A, non-B posttransfusion hepatitis, 231 patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis (96 with chronic hepatitis, 81 with cirrhosis and 54 with hepatocellular carcinoma) were analyzed for antibody to hepatitis C virus and were compared with 125 patients with chronic hepatitis B (50 with chronic hepatitis, 46 with cirrhosis and 29 with hepatocellular carcinoma). Antibody to hepatitis C virus was detected in 89.6%, 86.4% and 94.4% of patients with non-A, non-B hepatitis-related chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, respectively, compared with 6%, 17.4% and 34.5% with similar diseases related to hepatitis B. A history of transfusion was documented in 52%, 33% and 42% of anti-hepatitis C virus-positive cases of chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The mean intervals between the date of transfusion and the date of diagnosis of anti-hepatitis C virus-positive chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma were 10, 21.2 and 29 yr, respectively. In 21 patients with transfusion-associated hepatocellular carcinoma, anti-hepatitis C virus was present in each serial sample available for testing, including samples obtained up to 14 yr before the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. These data suggest the slow, sequential progression from acute hepatitis C virus-related non-A, non-B hepatitis through chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma and support a causal association between hepatitis C virus and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Left ventricular diastolic filling alterations in normotensive young adults with a family history of systemic hypertension. To characterize the cardiovascular consequences of a history of hypertension in first-degree relatives in normotensive young adults, 72 normotensive (diastolic blood pressure [BP] less than 90 mm Hg) healthy volunteers (age 18 to 30 years) were studied with 2 dimensionally guided M-mode echocardiography, pulsed Doppler echocardiography, and 2-hour automated BP monitoring. Of the 72 subjects, 19 (12 men and 7 women) had a family history of hypertension and were compared with 19 subjects without a family history of hypertension who were matched for systolic BP and gender. There were no detectable differences in 2-hour average BP, left ventricular (LV) mass or wall thickness, or echocardiographic systolic functional indexes between subjects with and without a family history of hypertension. Doppler-derived diastolic functional indexes demonstrated more prominent late diastolic filling in subjects with a family history of hypertension. Late diastolic transmitral flow time and flow velocity integral were greater (132 +/- 24 vs 117 +/- 17 ms, p less than 0.05; and 2.5 +/- 0.7 vs 1.9 +/- 0.5 cm, p less than 0.01, respectively). To measure possible gender-related effects of a family history of hypertension, the men and women were analyzed separately. The 12 men with a family history of hypertension had greater peak late (40 +/- 0.9 vs 31 +/- 0.8 cm/s, p less than 0.02) and ratio of late-to-early (0.64 +/- 0.19 vs 0.46 +/- 0.10, p less than 0.01) transmitral flow velocities and greater late transmitral flow velocity integrals (2.6 +/- 0.8 vs 1.9 +/- 0.5 cm, p less than 0.05) than the matched male control subjects. 
Enterogastric reflux after various types of antiulcer gastric surgery: quantitation by 99mTc-HIDA scintigraphy. In 28 controls and 142 patients subjected to a variety of antiulcer procedures, the enterogastric reflux (EGR) was quantitated by 99mTc-HIDA scintigraphy and expressed as the EGR index on 229 different occasions. The EGR index was calculated according to two different formulas: one based on the maximal radioactivity over the gastric area as a percentage value of the total abdominal activity (EGR-Im) and the other based on the relative maximal radioactivity over the gastric area as a percentage value of the relative hepatobiliary activity (EGR-It). There was a significant positive correlation of values between the two methods (P less than 0.0001). In patients with an EGR-Im greater than 20% or EGR-It greater than 57% and postgastric surgery symptoms some of the symptoms were attributed to EGR, an antireflux procedure is expected to relieve those symptoms. Sixteen of these patients underwent Roux-en-Y gastrectomy and their preoperative symptoms were relieved. 
Tocainide and mortality after myocardial infarction: a prospective study in conscious dogs. The production of an anterior myocardial infarction as part of an experimental animal model for sudden death was burdened by a persistently elevated mortality rate (30%) despite the use of traditional antiarrhythmic drugs. Mortality was reduced when tocainide (600 mg three times daily) was empirically administered for 4 days before and 4 days after myocardial infarction. Retrospective analysis showed that mortality at 4 days after infarction was significantly lower in the tocainide-treated dogs than in the preceding large group of dogs that had not been so treated (5 [9%] of 55, versus 64 [32%] of 199, p less than 0.01). This difference was still evident 30 days after myocardial infarction (13 [24%] of 55 versus 83 [42%] of 199; p less than 0.05). This observation led to the present prospective study in 106 dogs with a similar protocol but with a randomized sequence. At 4 days after myocardial infarction, the mortality rate was 55% lower in the tocainide group than in the control group (7 [12.5%] of 56 versus 14 [28%] of 50; p less than 0.05). During the 10 days after treatment withdrawal 9 (18%) of 49 dogs in the tocainide group died compared with only 2 (5%) of 36 in the control group. This rebound in mortality produced similar survival figures in the two groups at 14 and at 30 days after infarction when mortality was 30% (17 of 56) in the tocainide group and 34% (17 of 50) in the control group. The tocainide plasma levels were 7.4 +/- 4 micrograms/ml the day before infarction and 7.2 +/- 3 micrograms/ml 3 days after infarction. 
Hereditary sacral agenesis with presacral mass and anorectal stenosis: the Currarino triad. A family with autosomal dominant inheritance of sacral agenesis is described. Ten members were affected; four had associated presacral teratomas and anterior sacral meningoceles, giving rise to serious complications in three, including bacterial meningitis, local recurrence of teratoma and perianal sepsis. Three of those with presacral masses presented initially with anorectal anomalies. Other associated abnormalities included tethering of the cord, hydrocephalus, duplex ureter, hydronephrosis, vesicoureteric reflux, neurogenic bladder, bicornuate uterus, rectovaginal fistula and hereditary spherocytosis. Early diagnosis and surgical excision of a presacral mass is advised to prevent future morbidity and mortality. 
Nutritional management of acute and chronic pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis often results in a catabolic state characterized by profound hemodynamic, metabolic, cardiovascular, pulmonary, hematologic, and renal aberrations. Parenteral nutrition and metabolic support are essential if morbidity and mortality are to be minimized. In chronic pancreatitis, nutritional management ranges from fundamental dietary manipulation with or without administration of appropriate digestive enzymes to enteral supplementation with modular chemically defined diets to total parenteral nutrition, depending on the stage, severity, and manifestations of the disease. In prescribing nutrient substrates in both acute and chronic pancreatitis, consideration must be given to their effects on pancreatic enzyme secretion if optimal results are to be achieved. 
Antitumor effect of synthetic derivatives of lipid A in an experimental model of colon cancer in the rat. Colon carcinoma is one of the most frequent causes of cancer death in industrialized countries. The patients generally die of the metastases. In a colon cancer rat model, the authors have shown that lipopolysaccharides from Escherichia coli induced the regression of carcinomatosis and cured 20%-30% of the rats. Some synthetic derivatives of lipid A, which are less toxic than lipopolysaccharides, were injected 14 days after the tumor cells. They induced the complete regression of peritoneal carcinomatosis consisting of numerous nodules measuring 1-5 mm in 20%-30% of rats. Only compounds with three or more hydroxymyristic acid residues were effective. In vivo effects were correlated with the capacity to induce the production of interleukin 1 and tumor necrosis factor but not with the capacity to induce macrophage-mediated cytolysis. It is therefore possible to synthesize weakly toxic derivatives of lipopolysaccharides retaining their antitumoral property in vivo. 
Effectiveness of imazodan for treatment of chronic congestive heart failure. The Imazodan Research Group. A 12-week, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of imazodan, a type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor, was conducted in 147 patients with congestive heart failure to determine clinical efficacy and safety. Patients were randomized to placebo or 2, 5 or 10 mg of imazodan administered twice daily. Patients were maintained on their standard therapy including diuretics, digoxin and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. The mean ejection fraction was 23 +/- 10%. Exercise time increased from baseline in all 4 groups. There was no significant difference observed between the placebo group and any of the treated groups with regard to exercise time, ejection fraction, frequency of ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia. When analyzed by intent to treat, the placebo mortality was 7% (3 of 44) and the imazodan mortality was 8% (8 of 103) (p = not significant). This study failed to demonstrate that imazodan provided any benefit in exercise performance when compared with placebo. 
Periarticular heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. Risk factors and consequences. The formation of periarticular heterotopic bone after total hip arthroplasty is a frequent complication. The reported occurrences concerning this complication vary considerably in different reports, ranging from 15% to 90% with significant amounts in 1%-27% of the cases. Heterotopic ossification (HO) starts with the surgical operation, and the extent is well delineated on roentgenograms after six to 12 weeks. The amount of bone varies from small islands in the soft tissue to widespread bridging ossification. The cause of HO seems to be mainly related to systemic factors and is chiefly dependent on gender, diagnosis, and concurrent antiinflammatory medication. Patients at risk seem to be those with HO after a previous surgical operation, patients suffering from certain types of ankylosing spondylitis, otherwise healthy men with osteoarthrosis, patients with hypertrophic osteoarthrosis, and patients operated upon for fresh fractures or other posttraumatic conditions. The surgical technique and the local tissue trauma probably moderate both the occurrence and amount of HO. HO does not seem to cause pain or to decrease hip muscle strength but does limit hip mobility in cases with significant amount of ossification. 
The European Stroke Prevention Study: results according to sex. The European Stroke Prevention Study was a multicenter trial comparing the effect of a combination of 75 mg dipyridamole and 330 mg acetylsalicylic acid tid with placebo in the prevention of stroke or death after one or more attacks of recent transient ischemic attacks or stroke of atherothrombotic origin. From the 2,500 patients in the intention-to-treat analysis, the proportion of women was 42%, and from the 1,861 patients in the explanatory analysis it was 44%. The endpoint incidence was significantly higher in men than in women. The endpoint reduction was statistically significant only in the intention-to-treat analysis with total endpoints. However, there was a marked percentage reduction of endpoints in both men and women in explanatory analysis. The risk reduction of strokes was 49% for men and 41% for women, and the reduction of total endpoints was 39% in men and 30% in women. Thus, antiplatelet therapy is effective in the prevention of stroke or death in both sexes. 
Pseudoaneurysm of the popliteal artery as a complication of an osteochondroma. A review of the literature and a case report. False aneurysm of the femoral artery was associated with a solitary osteochondroma of the femur in a 22-year-old man. An extensive review of the literature and the problems related to diagnosis revealed that the aneurysm was apparently unique. Contrary to previous reports, computed tomography and angiography did not establish the diagnosis. The physical findings were more informative. 
External cardiopulmonary resuscitation preserves brain viability after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs. Standard external cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) steps A-B-C produce a low blood flow that may or may not preserve brain viability during prolonged cardiac arrest. A dog model was used with ventricular fibrillation (VF) of 20 minutes, reperfusion with brief cardiopulmonary bypass, controlled ventilation to 20 hours, and intensive care to 96 hours. A retrospective comparison was made of the results of one series, now called "group I" (n = 10)--which received CPR basic life support interposed from VF 10 to 15 minutes, and CPR advanced life support with epinephrine (without defibrillation) from VF 15 to 20 minutes--to the results of another series, now "control group II" (n = 10)--which received VF no flow (no CPR) for 20 minutes. All 20 dogs within protocol were resuscitated. All 10 of group I and 7 of 10 of group II survived to 96 hours. Pupillary light reflex returned after the start of cardiopulmonary bypass at 7.7 +/- 3.7 minutes in CPR group I, versus 16.3 +/- 7.4 minutes in control group II (P = .032). At 96 hours postarrest, final overall performance categories (1, normal; 5, brain death) were better in group I. Six of 10 dogs achieved normality (overall performance category 1) in group I, as compared with none of 10 in group II (P = .004). Final neurologic deficit score (0%, best; 100% worst) was lower (better) in group I (15% +/- 20%) than in group II (51% +/- 6%; P less than .001). 
Long-term follow-up after prosthetic replacement of the superior vena cava combined with resection of mediastinal-pulmonary malignant tumors. The contraindication to curative excision of mediastinal and pulmonary cancers because of invasion of the superior vena cava is now challenged by the existence of vascular prostheses that are suitable for venous replacement. Between 1979 and 1990 22 patients underwent resection of lung cancer (n = 6) or malignant mediastinal tumors (n = 16) involving the superior vena cava. Resection was done with concomitant venous reconstruction, and polytetrafluorethylene grafts were used. All bronchogenic carcinomas necessitated right pneumonectomy, whereas the excision of mediastinal tumors had to include pulmonary resections in nine patients (five lobectomies and four sublobar resections) and the right phrenic nerve in 12 patients. Venous reconstruction was performed by interposition of a large polytetrafluoroethylene graft between the proximal and cardiac ends of the superior vena cava (n = 8), or between one (n = 10) or both brachiocephalic veins (n = 4) and the right atrium. One patient died postoperatively (4.5%), and another had mediastinitis that was successfully treated by omentopexy. Chemotherapy was administered preoperatively to five patients and postoperatively to seven patients; radiotherapy was administered to two and 10 patients, respectively. The overall actuarial survival rate is 48% at 5 years, with 11 patients presently alive. The survival rate of patients with mediastinal tumors is 60% at 5 years. Among the patients with lung cancer, two with N1 disease are alive at 16 and 51 months, and one died at 38 months; the two patients with N2 disease died at 6 and 8 months. Only one graft occlusion occurred in the postoperative period; another occurred 14 months after operation and was precipitated by insertion of a central venous catheter. The patency of all remaining grafts was demonstrated after an average time of 23 (1 to 98) months. On the basis of these results, polytetrafluoroethylene graft replacement of the superior vena cava should be part of the planning and execution of radical excision with curative intent of mediastinal and right pulmonary malignant tumors that are not present with other contraindications, such as pleural or distant metastasis and severe systemic disease. 
Expression and secretion of leukocyte chemotactic cytokines by normal human melanocytes and melanoma cells. The capacity of human melanocytes and melanoma cells to produce IL-8 and monocyte chemotactic and activating factor (MCAF) was investigated. Melanocytes expressed mRNA for IL-8 and MCAF, when stimulated with either IL-1 alpha or TNF alpha, but not when stimulated with IL-6, IFN gamma, or LPS alone. IL-8 and MCAF could be induced in a dose-dependent fashion with doses as low as 0.1 ng/ml TNF alpha and 0.5 ng/ml IL-1 alpha. IL-8 and MCAF mRNA were rapidly expressed and peaked between 2 and 4 h for IL-8 and between 4 and 8 h for MCAF. This correlated well with the accumulation of IL-8 antigen as measured by a radioimmunoassay. Supernatants from melanocyte cultures stimulated with either IL-1 alpha or TNF alpha and separated on a heparin-Sepharose column became positive for neutrophil and monocyte chemotactic activity in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. When IFN gamma was added to melanocyte cultures stimulated with suboptimal doses of TNF alpha there was a synergistic increase in secreted IL-8 protein and monocyte chemotactic activity. These data provide further evidence for the possible role of melanocytes in the initiation of an inflammatory reaction. Three different malignant melanoma cell lines stimulated with either TNF alpha or IL-1 alpha expressed IL-8 mRNA, but not mRNA for MCAF. The IL-8 mRNA signal corresponded well with the amount of secreted IL-8 protein. These data suggest that IL-8 and MCAF may play a role in growth regulation and spreading of melanomas. 
[35S]methionine interaction with rat liver tRNA and effect of chemical carcinogens. The interaction of [35S]methionine with hepatic tRNA in normal, carcinogen-treated, and partially hepatectomized rats was studied. tRNA was preferentially labeled following [35S]methionine (1.6 mCi, 25 mg/kg body wt) administration by intraperitoneal injection. The extent of [35S]methionine-tRNA interaction was impaired by partial hepatectomy and by conditions having a carcinogenic potential. 
Inhibition of promoter activity by methylation: possible involvement of protein mediators. To study the relationship between DNA methylation and promoter activity we have methylated in vitro the promoters of the mouse metallothionein I gene and the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene. We have transiently transfected these promoters fused to the human growth hormone in their methylated or unmethylated state into mouse L or F9 cells. Promoters methylated by methylase (M.) Hpa II and M.Hha I caused inhibition of reporter gene expression in L cells but not in F9 cells, while methylation of all CpGs by M.Sss I caused inhibition in both cell lines. Repression of promoter activity by M.Hpa II and M.Hha I methylation, but not by M.Sss I methylation, could be alleviated by cotransfection with an excess of untranscribable DNA methylated with M.Sss I. The methylated sites in nuclei isolated from the transfected L cells, but not F9 cells, were found to be protected from Msp I digestion. Taken together these results suggest that a factor present in L cells and missing in F9 cells mediates the methylation-directed inhibition of promoter activity. The ability of methylated DNA to overcome the inhibition seems to reflect competition for the mediator factor. Interestingly, treatment with Zn2+ ions brought about activation of the methylated promoter of the metallothionein gene. Similarly, butyrate could override the repression of the thymidine kinase methylated promoter. These activations were not accompanied by demethylation of the promoter or displacement of the mediator factor. 
Omega-3 fatty acids in health and disease and in growth and development. Several sources of information suggest that man evolved on a diet with a ratio of omega 6 to omega 3 fatty acids of approximately 1 whereas today this ratio is approximately 10:1 to 20-25:1, indicating that Western diets are deficient in omega 3 fatty acids compared with the diet on which humans evolved and their genetic patterns were established. Omega-3 fatty acids increase bleeding time; decrease platelet aggregation, blood viscosity, and fibrinogen; and increase erythrocyte deformability, thus decreasing the tendency to thrombus formation. In no clinical trial, including coronary artery graft surgery, has there been any evidence of increased blood loss due to ingestion of omega 3 fatty acids. Many studies show that the effects of omega 3 fatty acids on serum lipids depend on the type of patient and whether the amount of saturated fatty acids in the diet is held constant. In patients with hyperlipidemia, omega 3 fatty acids decrease low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol if the saturated fatty acid content is decreased, otherwise there is a slight increase, but at high doses (32 g) they lower LDL cholesterol; furthermore, they consistently lower serum triglycerides in normal subjects and in patients with hypertriglyceridemia whereas the effect on high-density lipoprotein (HDL) varies from no effect to slight increases. The discrepancies between animal and human studies most likely are due to differences between animal and human metabolism. In clinical trials eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in the form of fish oils along with antirheumatic drugs improve joint pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis; have a beneficial effect in patients with ulcerative colitis; and in combination with drugs, improve the skin lesions, lower the hyperlipidemia from etretinates, and decrease the toxicity of cyclosporin in patients with psoriasis. In various animal models omega 3 fatty acids decrease the number and size of tumors and increase the time elapsed before appearance of tumors. Studies with nonhuman primates and human newborns indicate that DHA is essential for the normal functional development of the retina and brain, particularly in premature infants. Because omega 3 fatty acids are essential in growth and development throughout the life cycle, they should be included in the diets of all humans. Omega-3 and omega 6 fatty acids are not interconvertible in the human body and are important components of practically all cell membranes. Whereas cellular proteins are genetically determined, the polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) composition of cell membranes is to a great extent dependent on the dietary intake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Ataxic hemiparesis associated with ipsilateral cerebellar syndrome caused by a paracentral gyrus lesion. The authors report a case of ataxic hemiparesis and an ipsilateral cerebellar syndrome in relation to a glioblastoma of the paracentral gyrus region. The physiopathology of this clinical presentation caused by compression of the corticopontine tract is discussed. 
6-mercaptopurine therapy in selected cases of corticosteroid-dependent Crohn's disease. Nineteen patients (12 children and 7 adults) with severe Crohn's disease, all of whom were dependent on corticosteroids, were treated with 6-mercaptopurine. All patients received a daily dose of 6-mercaptopurine of 50 mg; in two pediatric patients with a poor response after 2 months, the dosage was increased to 75 mg/day. A complete or partial response to 6-mercaptopurine therapy was noted in 47% of patients, and therapy failed in 53%. The age of the patients, prior resection, or initial symptoms did not influence the response. The clinical response was better in male than in female patients and in patients with involvement of both the small intestine and the colon than in those with only enteritis. 6-Mercaptopurine is a possible alternative to long-term corticosteroid therapy or surgical treatment in selected patients with severe Crohn's disease. 
Incentive spirometry versus routine chest physiotherapy for prevention of pulmonary complications after abdominal surgery We entered 876 patients into a clinical trial aimed at preventing pulmonary complications after abdominal surgery. Patients either received conventional chest physiotherapy or were encouraged to perform maximal inspiratory manoeuvres for 5 min during each hour while awake, using an incentive spirometer. The incidence of pulmonary complications did not differ significantly between the groups: incentive spirometry 68 of 431 (15.8%, 95% CI 14.0-17.6%), and chest physiotherapy 68 of 445 (15.3%, CI 13.6-17.0%). Nor was there a difference between the groups in the incidence of positive clinical signs, pyrexia, abnormal chest radiographs, pathogens in sputum, respiratory failure (PO2 less than 60 mm Hg), or length of stay in hospital. We conclude that prophylactic incentive spirometry and chest physiotherapy are of equivalent clinical efficacy in the general management of patients undergoing abdominal surgery. 
Gastric emptying in patients with severe reflux esophagitis. The pathogenesis of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is not fully understood. There have been reports that delayed gastric emptying is a contributing factor in some patients. To determine whether delayed gastric emptying plays a role in the genesis of GER, we correlated gastric-emptying measures obtained by scintigraphic techniques with the degree of acid reflux assessed by esophageal pH monitoring. Ten patients, all of whom had evidence of esophageal mucosal disease and severe acid reflux, were studied. Four of the 10 patients with reflux had prolongation in the lag phase of gastric solid emptying, and one of the four showed prolonged gastric-emptying t1/2. There was no significant difference, however, in the mean gastric-emptying t1/2 between a control group and the patient group. Furthermore, there was no correlation between gastric-emptying measures and degree of acid reflux. We conclude that in this group of 10 patients with severe GER, delayed gastric emptying does not play an important role in the development of gastroesophageal reflux. 
Recurrence of oropharyngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy. Two-hundred-and-twenty-one patients with squamous carcinoma of the oropharynx treated by irradiation are presented. The primary recurrence rate at five years in the previously untreated patients was 27%, but was dictated by neither host factors (age, sex and general condition) nor tumour factors (site, T-stage and histological grade). Pre-operative histological diagnosis had a very high sensitivity but a low specificity, indicating that false positives are common but false negatives unusual. Twenty per cent of patients with a recurrent primary tumour were untreatable. The five year survival after a primary recurrence was 31 per cent. Sixty-eight per cent of patients undergoing major surgery recovered without a major complication, and the hospital mortality rate was three per cent, due entirely to major medical catastrophes. The major complication rate in those undergoing flap repair after major resection was seven per cent. The metastatic rate in lymph nodes was 44 per cent at five years, and again this did not depend on any host or tumour factors. The survival at five years after node recurrence was a mere 19 per cent, and the length of survival was related to the primary site of the original tumour and the presence of extranodal disease. Two-thirds of patients had advanced disease (N2 and N3) when node recurrence was diagnosed and about 15 per cent were unsuitable for surgery. 
Cerebral infarction verified by cranial computed tomography and prognosis for survival following transient ischemic attack. Of 564 consecutive patients with transient ischemic attack, 350 (62%) had cranial computed tomography performed. Except for date of admission and smoking history, there were few differences between the patients evaluated with computed tomography and the 214 who were not. Cerebral infarcts were found in 59 (17%) of the 350 tomographic evaluations. Previous clinically diagnosed stroke, older age, and male sex were all significantly associated with the occurrence of tomographically verified infarcts (p less than 0.05). After controlling for stroke history and other important covariates, patients with tomographically verified infarcts had significantly shorter survival times than did patients without evidence of infarction on computed tomography (p = 0.035). Thus, cranial computed tomography findings appear to have important prognostic value for estimating survival following transient ischemic attack. 
Surgical evaluation of Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Experience with 110 children. Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a disorder of unknown origin that is probably related to an autoimmune phenomenon. This report concerns 110 children (mean age, 6.2 years; range, 6 months to 14 years) with Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Seventy-two (65%) had abdominal pain associated with nausea and vomiting, bloody stool, and upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Sixty patients with abdominal pain were evaluated and treated conservatively. However, 12 patients underwent laparotomy. Six underwent unnecessary appendectomy for wrongly diagnosed appendicitis. Bowel resection was performed in one patient for an obstructive ileal lesion. Six additional patients had intussusception; surgery was required in three, while barium enema reduction was successfully accomplished in three others. Massive gastric hemorrhage required ligation, vagotomy, and pyloroplasty in two instances. One child with severe scrotal pain, hemorrhage, and swelling underwent unnecessary scrotal exploration. Four additional patients with similar symptoms avoided operation after a testicular scintiscan demonstrated good blood flow. A high index of suspicion and early diagnosis of Henoch-Schonlein purpura based on clinical, roentgenographic, and laboratory findings may avoid unnecessary operations in most cases. However, life-threatening complications (hemorrhage, obstruction, and intussusception) may occur and require operative intervention. All of the patients survived. 
Complications of diverticular disease and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: a prospective study. Previous retrospective studies have suggested an association between consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the complications of diverticular disease. Ninety-two patients were entered into a prospective study of the complications of diverticular disease over a 3 year period; 31 were taking NSAIDs, compared with only four age- and sex-matched controls from a representative general practice (P less than 0.001). A second control group comprised 306 patients with cancer of the colon in whom NSAID consumption was again significantly lower than in patients with diverticular disease (22 of 306 versus 31 of 92, P less than 0.001). Of the 31 patients taking NSAIDs, 19 presented with a perforation or peritonitis. By contrast, only eight of the 61 patients not taking NSAIDs had such complications (P less than 0.001). Eleven patients presented with bleeding of whom five were taking NSAIDs and six were not. Patients admitted with complications of diverticular disease have a high incidence of NSAID intake, and it appears that NSAID consumption is associated with a more severe form of the disease. 
A1-adenosine receptor inhibition of adenylate cyclase in failing and nonfailing human ventricular myocardium. BACKGROUND. Receptors that couple via the stimulatory G protein, Gs, to adenylate cyclase and to a positive inotropic response have been extensively investigated in falling human heart. In contrast, much less is known about receptors, such as the A1-adenosine receptor, that couple to adenylate cyclase via the inhibitory G protein, Gi, to give a negative inotropic response. Activation of such Gi-coupled receptors might worsen heart failure. Furthermore, alpha Gi is increased in failing human ventricular myocardium, which may enhance inhibitory receptor coupling to adenylate cyclase. METHODS AND RESULTS. A1-Adenosine receptor inhibition of adenylate cyclase was examined in crude particulate preparations derived from 12 nonfailing and 12 failing human left ventricles. Experimental conditions were designed for maximal inhibitory responses. Dose-response curves were performed with the selective A1-adenosine receptor agonist R-phenylisopropyl-adenosine (R-PIA). No differences in nonfailing versus failing heart were observed for basal adenylate cyclase activity (49.0 +/- 4.1 versus 45.7 +/- 2.6 pmol cyclic AMP/min/mg), maximal R-PIA-mediated inhibition (31.1 +/- 2.6 versus 30.2 +/- 1.6 pmol cyclic AMP/min/mg), ED50 (R-PIA x 10(-7) 1.28 +/- 0.10 versus 1.36 +/- 0.08), or slope (1.06 +/- 0.06 versus 1.03 +/- 0.10), respectively. Furthermore, fluoride, forskolin, and manganese adenylate cyclase activation were not different in failing heart, which is consistent with no change in the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase. The inhibitory G protein alpha Gi, as quantitated by pertussis toxin-catalyzed ADP-ribosylation, was increased in failing heart (105.7 +/- 5.8 versus 132.7 +/- 3.4 optical density units, p less than 0.003). Basal adenylate cyclase activity was reduced in failing heart (7.8 +/- 0.8 versus 4.5 +/- 0.4 pmol cyclic AMP/min/mg, p less than 0.005) with assay conditions designed to assess G protein effects. CONCLUSIONS. The A1-adenosine receptor pathway exerts a major inhibitory effect on human myocardial adenylate cyclase activity. Although alpha Gi was increased in failing heart, A1-adenosine receptor inhibition of adenylate cyclase was not altered in preparations of failing versus nonfailing human ventricular myocardium. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and peptic ulcer disease. An overview. Evidence is accumulating that use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is linked to ulceration of the stomach and duodenum and can cause significant, life-threatening ulcer complications. The mechanism of action seems to be both topical damage to the mucosal barrier and the systemic effect of a reduction in levels of mucosal prostaglandins. Patients especially at risk are the elderly, those with concomitant debilitating disease, those with a history of ulcers, and those taking corticosteroids. Histamine2 blockers are reported to significantly reduce the incidence of NSAID-induced duodenal ulcer, and misoprostol (Cytotec) has been shown to significantly reduce the incidence of NSAID-induced gastric ulcer. Prophylaxis with these agents should be considered for high-risk patients who need NSAID therapy to maintain a reasonable life-style. 
Cervical dystonia: clinical findings and associated movement disorders. We studied 300 patients, 61% women, with mean age 49.7 years and mean duration of dystonia 7.8 years, to determine the demographic and clinical characteristics of cervical dystonia (CD) and its relationships to other movement disorders. Torticollis was present in 82%, laterocollis in 42%, retrocollis in 29%, and anterocollis in 25%; however, the majority (66%) had a combination of these abnormal postures. Scoliosis was present in 39%, local pain reported by 68%, and 32% had evidence of secondary cervical radiculopathy. In addition to CD, 16% of patients had oral dystonia, 12% mandibular dystonia, 10% hand/arm dystonia, and 10% had blepharospasm. Tremor was noted in 71% of patients; head-neck tremor was present in 60%, and tremor in other body regions was present in 32%. A family history of a movement disorder was present in 44% of the CD patients. Tardive dystonia was the cause in 6%; 11% had posttraumatic dystonia. Anticholinergic drugs provided moderate improvement in 33% of patients, but local intramuscular botulinum toxin injections relieved CD, local pain, or both in over 90% of all treated patients. 
Diagnosis and management of Kawasaki disease. Kawasaki disease is an acute vasculitis characterized by mucosal inflammation, rash, cervical adenopathy, indurative edema of the hands and feet, and late membranous desquamation of the fingertips. Early cardiac effects include myocarditis (occasionally with congestive heart failure), pericardial inflammation, and, rarely, valve involvement. Coronary artery aneurysms are a long-term concern because coronary thrombosis with myocardial infarction can be a late manifestation. The origin of Kawasaki disease is unknown, but an infectious agent is most likely. Management consists of aspirin for control of fever and inflammatory manifestations and intravenous gamma globulin for the prevention of coronary aneurysm formation. Careful late follow-up is required, especially for patients with persistent coronary abnormalities. Giant aneurysms (greater than 8 mm) are more likely to progress to coronary obstructive disease, and coronary bypass grafts have been required for some patients. Late coronary artery manifestations in patients with mild early coronary dilatation have not been described. However, since long-term epidemiologic studies have not yet been performed, it is prudent to consider childhood Kawasaki disease to be a potential risk factor for coronary disease, especially in atherosclerosis-prone Western societies. 
Occurrence of stroke associated with use/abuse of drugs. Ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke frequently occur in temporal association with use or abuse of illicit and over-the-counter (OTC) sympathomimetic drugs. However, little information is available on the proportion of strokes associated with use/abuse of drugs in specific hospital populations. Between September 1, 1988, and August 1, 1989, 167 of 178 stroke patients entered into the Maryland Stroke Data Bank were asked for a history of drug use or abuse. Information was incomplete in 51 of 167 (31%) patients due to neurologic deficit or lack of inquiry. Eleven of the remaining 116 cases (9.5%) were historically associated with drug use. Age range was 25 to 56 years (mean, 41 years). Stroke associated with drug use occurred in four of 62 (6%) cerebral infarcts, two of 28 (7%) intracerebral hemorrhages, and five of 26 (19%) subarachnoid hemorrhages (p = ns). Drugs included cocaine in five (45%), OTC sympathomimetics in three (27%), phencyclidine in two (18%), and heroin in one (9%). 
Identification of a gene located at chromosome 5q21 that is mutated in colorectal cancers Recent studies have suggested the existence of a tumor suppressor gene located at chromosome region 5q21. DNA probes from this region were used to study a panel of sporadic colorectal carcinomas. One of these probes, cosmid 5.71, detected a somatically rearranged restriction fragment in the DNA from a single tumor. Further analysis of the 5.71 cosmid revealed two regions that were highly conserved in rodent DNA. These sequences were used to identify a gene, MCC (mutated in colorectal cancer), which encodes an 829-amino acid protein with a short region of similarity to the G protein-coupled m3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. The rearrangement in the tumor disrupted the coding region of the MCC gene. Moreover, two colorectal tumors were found with somatically acquired point mutations in MCC that resulted in amino acid substitutions. MCC is thus a candidate for the putative colorectal tumor suppressor gene located at 5q21. Further studies will be required to determine whether the gene is mutated in other sporadic tumors or in the germ line of patients with an inherited predisposition to colonic tumorigenesis. 
Microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm. Patterns of vascular compression in unsuccessfully operated patients. To determine the causative factors of unsuccessful microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm, the follow-up results in 53 patients were assessed retrospectively. The mean follow-up period was 36 months. There were 32 patients who had compression of the seventh cranial nerve ventrocaudally by an anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) or a posterior inferior cerebellar artery. Of these 32 patients, 30 (94%) had excellent postoperative results. Of 14 patients with more severe compression by the vertebral artery, nine (64%) had excellent results, three (21%) had good results, and two (14%) had poor results; in this group, three patients with excellent results experienced transient spasm recurrence. There were seven patients in whom the meatal branch of the AICA coursed between the seventh and eighth cranial nerves and compressed the dorsal aspect of the seventh nerve; this was usually associated with another artery compressing the ventral aspect of the nerve ("sandwich-type" compression). Of these seven patients, five (71%) had poor results including operative failure in one and recurrence of spasm in four. The authors conclude that the clinical outcome was closely related to the patterns of vascular compression. 
A study of elastic tissue and actinic radiation in "aging," temporal arteritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, and atherosclerosis. The actinic storm in the modern world. Solar radiation provokes a lifelong series of destructive changes in the supporting elastic tissues of "exposed" skin. Called actinic elastosis/lysis (or actinic "aging"), the sequence begins in early life as simple elastic hyperplasia, converts in middle life to progressive actinic elastotic degeneration, and, in late life, typically ends with a stage of resorption (elastolysis) and atrophy ("aged" skin). Superficial "exposed" arteries such as the temporal artery participate in the same sequence of degenerative elastotic changes, which, as in the skin, may provoke granulomatous responses in a few of the many subjects affected. In the case of the temporal artery, a contingent outcome may be giant cell (temporal) arteritis and its recognized systemic vascular expression, polymyalgia rheumatica. Actinic commotion at the surface of the body is often massive in degree and extent and may be expected to exert a deleterious autoimmune impact on the essential elastic tissues of the arterial system. For this reason, solar radiation should be recognized as a risk factor for other elastic-related vascular diseases, including atherosclerosis and aneurysms. Man-made radiations may be exacerbating the effects of predominant solar radiation. Of the many radiant bands that make up the actinic (electromagnetic) spectrum, little is known for certain about the identity of those that cause these prevalent disorders of elastic tissue. Until this void is filled, more care should be taken with solar and the other "safe" radiations. 
Memory and pain: tests of mood congruity and state dependent learning in experimentally induced and clinical pain. The associative network theory of memory [2] is outlined along with the concepts of mood congruity and state dependent learning. Two experiments are reported which investigate the occurrence of these effects where memory for pain is concerned. In experiment 1 the performance of 25 chronic pain patients was compared with that of 25 non-patient controls on a test involving both immediate and delayed recall of a mixed list of stimulus words of 3 types: pain-related, negative or neutral. No significant group differences were found in overall rates of immediate recall. As predicted, however, pain patients recalled more pain-related words than non-patient controls (P less than 0.001). On delayed recall the same significant group x word-type interaction was obtained (P less than 0.02), but in addition the non-patient controls recalled significantly more words overall (P less than 0.02). These results provide some evidence for the occurrence of a mood congruity effect. Experiment 2 investigated state dependent learning and mood congruity effects in experimentally induced pain. Twenty volunteer subjects were allocated to 1 of 4 conditions in which a wordlist (as in experiment 1) was presented following either a painful stimulus (cold pressor test) or a non-painful one (warm water) and was then recalled immediately following further exposure to stimulus conditions which were congruent with the original stimulus (warm/warm and cold/cold conditions) or non-congruent (warm/cold and cold/warm conditions). A 3-way split plot ANOVA yielded no significant main effects for group or word-type, but a significant interaction emerged between state at encoding and at recall (P less than 0.04). 
Colchicine and antineoplastic therapy for the prevention of restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventions. The complexity of the events that culminate in intimal proliferation after arterial injury and similarities between this response and benign neoplasia suggest that conventional medical therapies will continue to be unsuccessful in preventing recurrent stenosis after percutaneous coronary revascularization. By preventing cell division after smooth muscle cell activation, antimitogenic therapy may inhibit the final common pathway in this complex chain of events and offset the apparent loss of local growth control. Colchicine, which causes metaphase arrest of cell division, has been shown in experimental studies to decrease the extent of atheromatous plaque formation and reduce the severity of arterial restenosis after balloon angioplasty. However, preliminary results from a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial suggest that low dose colchicine (0.6 mg twice a day orally) does not prevent restenosis. The use of more potent antineoplastic agents is limited by the potential for life-threatening side effects. It is possible that these adverse effects can be averted by using novel drug delivery systems to administer antimitogenic therapy locally at the site of arterial injury or by using low dose synergistic combinations of antiproliferative agents. This review examines the potential role of antimitogenic therapy in the prevention of restenosis after coronary interventions and considers the possibility of an overlap of the therapeutic realms of interventional cardiology and medical oncology. 
Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study. Final results BACKGROUND. Atrial fibrillation in the absence of rheumatic valvular disease is associated with a fivefold to sevenfold increased risk of ischemic stroke. METHODS AND MAIN RESULTS. The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study, a multicenter, randomized trial, compared 325 mg/day aspirin (double-blind) or warfarin with placebo for prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism (primary events), and included 1,330 inpatients and outpatients with constant or intermittent atrial fibrillation. During a mean follow-up of 1.3 years, the rate of primary events in patients assigned to placebo was 6.3% per year and was reduced by 42% in those assigned to aspirin (3.6% per year; p = 0.02; 95% confidence interval, 9-63%). In the subgroup of warfarin-eligible patients (most less than 76 years old), warfarin dose-adjusted to prolong prothrombin time to 1.3-fold to 1.8-fold that of control reduced the risk of primary events by 67% (warfarin versus placebo, 2.3% versus 7.4% per year; p = 0.01; 95% confidence interval, 27-85%). Primary events or death were reduced 58% (p = 0.01) by warfarin and 32% (p = 0.02) by aspirin. The risk of significant bleeding was 1.5%, 1.4%, and 1.6% per year in patients assigned to warfarin, aspirin, and placebo, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. Aspirin and warfarin are both effective in reducing ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation. Because warfarin-eligible patients composed a subset of all aspirin-eligible patients, the magnitude of reduction in events by warfarin versus aspirin cannot be compared. Too few events occurred in warfarin-eligible patients to directly assess the relative benefit of aspirin compared with warfarin, and the trial is continuing to address this issue. Patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation who can safely take either aspirin or warfarin should receive prophylactic antithrombotic therapy to reduce the risk of stroke. 
Evidence for a new tumor-suppressor gene involved in gastrointestinal malignancies. Inactivation or loss of tumor-suppressor genes is believed to lead to the development or progression of malignancies. To determine whether a tumor-suppressor gene is located on chromosome 8, DNA was extracted from tumor and normal tissue of colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic specimens, and allele loss was investigated by Southern hybridization techniques with the chromosome 8 probe D8S7. Twenty-five percent of pancreatic carcinomas, 50% of gastric carcinomas, and 50% of colorectal carcinomas were found to have lost an allele on chromosome 8. These findings suggest the presence of a tumor-suppressor gene on chromosome 8, which is involved in colorectal carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, and pancreatic carcinoma. Definition of the frequency with which this tumor-suppressor gene is involved in gastrointestinal malignancies will await the study of many patients who are classified as informative and the use of multiple probes for chromosome 8. 
Urethrovaginal fistula repair with Martius labial fat pad graft. Most urethrovaginal fistulas are iatrogenic and, like other urinary fistulas, significantly reduce the quality of the affected individual's life. The Martius labial fat pad graft facilitates the urologic care of these women. 
Free and supported stance in Parkinson's disease. The effect of posture and 'postural set' on leg muscle responses to perturbation, and its relation to the severity of the disease. Upright stance and its reflex control were studied in parkinsonian patients and in age-matched normal subjects. They stood unperturbed on a force-measuring surface (static conditions), or were displaced by movement of a supporting platform (dynamic conditions). During quiet stance the following variables were analysed, with eyes open or closed: position of the centre of foot pressure (CFP), average sway area, length of sway path, amplitude and distribution of tonic leg muscle EMG activity. Perturbations of stance were induced by toe-up or toe-down rotations, and by backward or forward translations of the platform. Amplitude of short, medium and long-latency EMG responses to displacement were measured in the tibialis anterior (TA) and in the three heads of the triceps surae (TS) muscle. The perturbations were produced during both free and supported stance (holding onto a stable structure), under which condition normal subjects suppress medium and long-latency responses. Under static conditions, the only significant finding in parkinsonians was represented by a shift in the position of the CFP. This was correlated with the severity of the disease (Webster scale), the less affected patients being shifted backwards and the more affected patients forwards, with respect to normals. Under dynamic conditions, the reflex responses to perturbations of free stance were similar in both groups. Only the medium-latency burst of gastrocnemius lateralis and the long-latency burst TA evoked by TS stretch were larger in parkinsonians. The amplitude of these responses, as well as of all the others, was not related to the Webster score. Within the patients' group, a relationship between position of CFP and area of EMG burst was found for both medium and long-latency TA responses evoked by forward translation and toe-up rotation, respectively. Under supported conditions, the capability to suppress all medium and long-latency muscle responses to any perturbation was lost or impaired in the parkinsonians. The degree of impairment was unrelated to the position of the CFP, but was significantly related to the severity of the disease. The suppression to 40% (supported/nonsupported), of TA response to toe-down rotation is proposed as the point of separation between normals and parkinsonians. The forward projection of the CFP, occurring in the severe stages of the disease, and the increase in amplitude of some responses to perturbations of free stance might be a compensatory adaptation to the anomalous upright posture.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The differential effects of biofeedback in the treatment of menstrual and nonmenstrual migraine. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of biofeedback training in the treatment of menstrual and nonmenstrual migraine. Accordingly, 39 female patients suffering from both migraine associated, and migraine not associated, with menstrual periods were drawn from a pool of research volunteers enrolled in a biofeedback treatment program for migraine headaches. All patients were required to complete 5 weeks of daily self-monitoring of headache and menstruation activity immediately before and after treatment, and again at 6-month follow-up. Within-subjects comparisons of the effects of biofeedback on menstrual and nonmenstrual migraine, and between-subjects comparisons of the effects of biofeedback on patients suffering predominantly from either menstrual or nonmenstrual migraine showed that biofeedback is just as effective in reducing menstrual migraine as it is in reducing nonmenstrual migraine. Questions as to whether or not these conclusions can apply to patients who experience migraine headaches only during, or shortly before or after, menstruation, are raised. 
Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid presenting as multifocal bronchial carcinoid tumour. A 21 year old man presented with diarrhoea and flushing after meals and later developed miliary shadowing on his chest radiograph. Multifocal bronchial carcinoid tumour was diagnosed initially, but at necropsy metastatic medullary carcinoma of the thyroid was found. Multifocal bronchial carcinoid tumour should not be accepted as a primary diagnosis without first excluding medullary carcinoma of the thyroid because of the need to screen relatives of affected patients. 
Descending thoracic aorta-splenic artery graft for occlusive disease of the celiac axis. A new procedure is presented for the restoration of normal blood flow to the celiac axis in cases of orifice lesions of the celiac artery. The operation consists of inserting a graft between the descending thoracic aorta end-to-side and the divided splenic artery end-to-end. 
Pseudohypacusis. This article provides the basis for the techniques and interpretation of audiologic tests useful in evaluation of the patient with pseudohypacusis. Differences between the childhood and adult forms of the problem are discussed. The indications for currently popular conventional and special tests are presented. These include both behavioral and electrophysiologic measures for assessing auditory function. 
The impact of ulcerogenic drugs on surgery for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. To investigate the impact of ulcerogenic drugs on surgery for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease, we reviewed 150 surgical cases. Ulcerogenic drug use (steroids and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including aspirin) increased from 15% between 1972 and 1977 to 37% between 1983 and 1988. While there was no correlation between ulcerogenic drug use and hemorrhage, obstruction, or intractable pain, 16 (52%) of the 31 perforations and 26 (38%) of the 69 emergency operations were associated with use of ulcerogenic drugs. The overall mortality rate was 11%. Death was correlated with age greater than 65 years and emergency operation, but not with ulcerogenic drug use or other variables. Of 12 patients with histories of peptic ulcer disease who were treated with ulcerogenic drugs without concomitant antiulcer prophylaxis, 11 (92%) required emergency operation to treat perforation or massive hemorrhage. Standard antiulcer medications or misoprostol should be prescribed to elderly patients and to those with histories of ulcers who require ulcerogenic drug therapy. 
Cardiac disturbances during the administration of taxol. The clinical development of taxol, a new antimicrotubule agent with a unique mechanism of cytotoxic action, has proceeded slowly due to serious hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) and shortages in its supply. Nevertheless, large-scale phase II trials have been initiated as taxol has recently demonstrated impressive activity in advanced and cisplatin-refractory ovarian carcinoma. Furthermore, the incidence of HSRs has been reduced substantially with premedications and modifications in the administration schedule. However, various manifestations of potential cardiotoxicity have been observed in several patients who participated in four phase I and II studies of taxol. Asymptomatic bradycardia has occurred in a high proportion of patients, including 29% of ovarian cancer patients who were treated with maximally tolerated doses of taxol in a phase II study. More profound cardiac disturbances, including a range of atrioventricular conduction blocks, left bundle branch block, ventricular tachycardia (VT), and manifestations of cardiac ischemia, have been observed in seven of 140 patients (5%) who received taxol. Descriptions of these events are presented in this report to alert investigators to the potential for these adverse effects. Although these disturbances did not result in serious sequelae in most patients, investigators should continue to maintain a high degree of caution until precise risk factors, frequency, and clinical significance of these adverse cardiac effects are determined. 
Application of intermediate biomarkers to studies of cancer prevention in the gastrointestinal tract: introduction and perspective. In this article, abnormalities in the proliferation and differentiation of gastrointestinal cells are described in diseases that increase predisposition to gastrointestinal cancer. Recent findings related to the effects of calcium on gastrointestinal cell proliferation, differentiation, and tumor occurrence in rodent models and in human subjects are summarized. 
Usefulness of esmolol in unstable angina pectoris. European Esmolol Study Group. Esmolol is a new cardioselective beta blocker with unique pharmacokinetic properties resulting in a half-life of only 9 minutes. The present multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study examined the hemodynamic and antiischemic effects of this compound given as an adjunctive to conventional medical therapy in 113 patients with unstable angina. Fifty-nine patients received esmolol and 54 received matching placebo infusions. Esmolol was titrated in a step-wise manner at dosages of 2 to 24 mg/min until a 25% reduction in the double product was achieved; thereafter, esmolol was continuously infused for up to 72 hours. Esmolol caused a significant and persistent decline in heart rate and blood pressure throughout the entire study period. Clinical events, such as development of acute myocardial infarction or the need for urgent revascularization, occurred in 3 esmolol compared with 9 placebo patients (p = 0.06). There was also a trend toward reduction of silent ischemia as judged by Holter monitoring (mean [+/- standard deviation] duration/patient/24 hours, 21 +/- 81 minutes in the esmolol and 35 +/- 128 minutes in the placebo groups). Esmolol-related adverse effects were mostly cardiovascular in origin and could be managed promptly by downward dose titration or cessation of drug infusion. Thus, esmolol appears to be a safe and effective drug for patients with unstable angina because it permits a large degree of flexibility in adapting the desired level of beta blockade to the patient's changing clinical presentation. 
Allopurinol pretreatment improves evoked response recovery following global cerebral ischemia in dogs. The reperfusion of previously ischemic tissue may lead to the formation of highly reactive free radicals that promote tissue injury. Xanthine oxidase has been implicated as one source of these free radicals. We examined the role of xanthine oxidase in brain injury using a cerebrospinal fluid compression model of global cerebral ischemia with 15 minutes of ischemia and 4 hours of reperfusion. Seven dogs were pretreated with the xanthine oxidase inhibitor allopurinol (50 mg/kg for 5 days). Neurophysiological recovery was monitored with cortical somatosensory evoked potentials. As an attempt to correlate brain recovery with the mechanism of protection, free brain malondialdehyde was measured at the end of reperfusion by high-performance liquid chromatography. Brain water content was measured by wet-dry weights. Compared with seven untreated control dogs, allopurinol pretreatment significantly improved recovery of somatosensory evoked potentials after 4 hours of reperfusion. However, the amount of free malondialdehyde in the allopurinol-treated dogs was 32% greater than that in the controls. Brain water content was similar in the two groups. These results suggest that xanthine oxidase contributes to brain injury after ischemia and reperfusion. However, tissue damage caused by xanthine oxidase may be mediated through mechanisms other than free radical production. 
The mechanisms and prevention of intravascular fluid loss after occlusion of the supraceliac aorta in dogs. Mechanisms of intravascular fluid depletion after temporary occlusion of the supraceliac aorta were investigated in a canine model. During ischemia and reperfusion, hemodynamic parameters, superior mesenteric artery flow, intestinal mucosal perfusion, and mucosal permeability were monitored. After 12 hours of reperfusion, the volumes of intravenous electrolyte fluid required to maintain hemodynamic stability and fluid lost into the gastrointestinal tract and peritoneal cavity were measured. The distribution of total body water was analyzed by use of radionuclide dilution techniques. Group A animals underwent laparotomy only, group B had the supraceliac aorta occluded for 45 minutes, group C had superoxide dismutase administered after 45 minutes of aortic occlusion, and group D animals were exposed to mild hypothermia during a similar ischemia and reperfusion period. No significant difference was found in mean superior mesenteric artery flow or mucosal perfusion during ischemia among groups B, C, and D. During reperfusion superior mesenteric artery flow returned to values similar to control in all groups. Aortic occlusion increased mucosal permeability most significantly in group B (p less than 0.01). Mean intravenous fluid requirements (ml/mg) were the following: group A, 80 +/- 5; group B, 201 +/- 9 (p less than 0.01); group C, 116 +/- 7 (p less than 0.05); group D, 245 +/- 24 (p less than 0.05). Mean gastrointestinal fluid loss was highest in the hypothermic group and smallest if superoxide dismutase was given. Mean intracellular fluid volume was increased in groups B and D compared with group A (p less than 0.01). 
Reperitonealization of the lesser curve in proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulcer. Ninety-six consecutive patients were operated upon with proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulcer at our department during the two year period 1976 to 1978. These patients were prospectively randomized into two groups, one of which (45 patients) had reperitonealization of the lesser curve. These two groups are compared herein. Reperitonealization of the lesser curve was without benefit on long term clinical results, ulcer recurrence rate and gastric acid secretion. None of the patients had perforation of the lesser curve. 
Reversible thyroid dysfunction during treatment with GM-CSF. To investigate whether autoimmunity against thyroid antigens is induced or exacerbated by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, thyroid function and thyroid autoantibodies were studied in 14 patients with advanced breast cancer and 11 with soft-tissue sarcoma who received several cycles of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide plus GM-CSF 250 micrograms/m2 intravenously daily for 10 days in every 21 day cycle. All patients had normal thyroid function before treatment. In 2 patients with pre-existing thyroid antibodies, thyroid dysfunction developed but disappeared after cessation of GM-CSF. No other autoimmune abnormalities appeared. Stimulation of antigen-presenting cells by GM-CSF may bring about this phenomenon. 
Neutrophil chemotaxis in gastric mucosa. A signal-to-response comparison. This prospective study compares levels of neutrophil chemotactic activity (NCA) in gastric juice to the neutrophil count in gastric biopsies. Sixty-three male patients enrolled in the study and had antral biopsies following collection of gastric juice during esophagogastroduodenoscopy. Biopsies were examined for the magnitude of gastritis, tissue PMN count, and presence of Helicobacter pylori. Secretions were assayed for neutrophil chemotactic activity. Results show an increase in NCA and in tissue PMN counts with increasing severity of gastritis. H. pylori-positive patients had higher levels of NCA and PMN than H. pylori-negative patients. Wide variability in NCA levels preclude a direct correlation between NCA and PMN counts. 
The Sugiura procedure for patients with hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis. The Sugiura procedure (SP) was performed upon 27 patients with hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis (EPVT) without associated hepatic disease. There were 14 female and 13 male patients. The mean age was 28 +/- 14 years. The causes of EPVT were protein C deficiency in two; antithrombin III deficiency in one patient, a history of omphalitis in two patients, a history of pancreatitis in one patient and idiopathy in 21 patients. The SP was completed in two surgical stages in 14 patients and in one stage in nine. There was one operative death. One patient had mild postoperative encephalopathy, and two patients rebled at long term follow-up study. Actuarial survival rate was 82 per cent at five and ten years. It is concluded that the SP is a good alternative for the management of hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to EPVT. 
Early and late geometric changes after carotid endarterectomy patch reconstruction. This study examines the degree and location of vessel wall geometric changes after carotid endarterectomy-vein patch reconstruction. The external diameters of the proximal common carotid, common carotid bulb, and internal carotid arteries were measured during operation with a caliper after 349 carotid endarterectomies. There were 309 saphenous vein reconstructions, 31 synthetic patch reconstructions, and 9 primary closures. One or more B-mode ultrasound studies with cross-sectional views for common and internal carotid cursor measurements were performed from 3 months to 5 years after operation. The intraoperative-to-postoperative common carotid diameters were unchanged for the three types of reconstructions. The internal carotid diameters increased 20% to 30% for both the vein and synthetic patched arteries. This dilation was present at 3 and 6 months and progressed slightly over 5 years. Wall thickening greater than or equal to 1 mm was present in 62% of the carotid endarterectomies, with concentric stenosis in 3% and eccentric stenosis in 59%. Eccentric stenosis was present at 3 to 6 months, located on the endarterectomized posterior-medial wall of the common and internal carotid arteries, was always less than 50%, and changed very little over 5 years. No aneurysms or internal carotid occlusions were identified. Carotid endarterectomy-vein patch reconstruction results in early, mild, nonaneurysmal dilation of the internal carotid patched segment, frequent mild eccentric restenosis, and rare hemodynamically significant concentric restenosis. 
Parkinson's disease rigidity: magnetic motor evoked potentials in a small hand muscle. We studied the EMG potentials evoked in the bilateral first dorsal interosseus muscle by electromagnetic stimulation of the corticomotoneuronal descending system in 10 Parkinson's disease patients and in 10 age- and sex-matched normal controls. We selected patients who did not have tremor but had predominant rigidity with asymmetric body involvement. On the rigid side of the PD patients, the threshold to cortical stimulation was lower than on the contralateral side or than normal values. On average, patients had normal central conduction times, but their motor evoked potentials (MEPs) on the rigid side were larger than those of controls when the cortical stimulus was at rest or during slight tonic contraction of the target muscle. In the latter condition, a silent period shorter than that of controls followed MEPs, whereas the peripheral silent period following ulnar nerve stimulation at the wrist was prolonged. Alpha motor neuron excitability, tested by the F-wave method, was enhanced on the rigid side at rest. In rigidity, spinal motor nuclei may be more responsive than normal to descending inputs from motor cortex, or the entire corticomotoneuron system may prove hyperexcitable under given conditions. 
A case of extragenital choriocarcinoma in the jejunum. A case of extragenital choriocarcinoma which produces human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) in the small intestine of a 48-yr-old Japanese women is reported. Only seven such cases have been reported. The patient complained of postprandial upper abdominal pain and vomiting of 5 months' duration. Nine years before, right upper lobectomy was performed because of lung undifferentiated carcinoma. Double-contrast examination of the small intestine showed irregular ulceration in the lower jejunum. Celiac angiography demonstrated a hypervascular tumor stain in the branch of the jejunal artery. The serum HCG level was elevated. Gynecological examination revealed nothing abnormal. A small intestinal neoplasm was diagnosed, and a partial resection of the jejunum was performed. Endoscopy on the operating table showed a large, irregularly shaped sessile ulcer. Histologically the tumor was diagnosed as choriocarcinoma, composed of syncytiotrophoblastic cells and cytotrophoblastic cells. Immunohistochemical staining for HCG was positive. No metastasis was present. Although extragenital choriocarcinoma in the small intestine is rare, it should be included in the differential diagnosis of small intestinal neoplasm. 
Non-neoplastic pineal cysts. We identified 53 patients with non-neoplastic cysts of the pineal gland. In contrast to patients with pineal neoplasms, pineal cysts are usually asymptomatic. They infrequently obstruct the aqueduct to cause hydrocephalus or compress the tectum to produce the neuro-ophthalmologic signs of dorsal midbrain dysfunction. Obstructive hydrocephalus was present in only five patients (9.4%); three of them showed clinical signs of Parinaud's syndrome. CT and MRI typically reveal a cystic mass that averages 1.6 cm in anteroposterior (A-P) diameter with calcification at the periphery and faint rim-like contrast enhancement. Sagittal MRI is the most useful diagnostic test because it shows the anatomic relationship of the cyst to the aqueduct. The mass may compress the tectum and distort the proximal aqueduct; occasionally a large cyst may occlude the aqueduct. All patients with obstructive hydrocephalus had cysts greater than 2.0 cm in A-P diameter. Nine patients had suboccipital craniotomy. In all of them, the cysts contained clear fluid and were easily removed. We advocate conservative management with clinical observation of these benign lesions that may be developmental variants of normal pineal gland. 
Superior vena cava occlusion in a patient with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. A 55-year-old woman with a lupus like disease, associated with the lupus anticoagulant, was admitted because of facial edema. Her facial swelling was previously attributed to the steroids she had been taking and they were tapered without improvement. Laboratory tests revealed high titers of anticardiolipin antibodies. Computerized tomography of her chest and Doppler ultrasound examination of her neck veins demonstrated a thrombus in the superior vena cava. She was treated with heparin and was maintained with longterm warfarin therapy with uneventful followup. Superior vena cava obstruction should be added to the long list of thromboembolic complications of the antiphospholipid syndrome. 
Barrett's mucosa in conjunction with squamous carcinoma of the esophagus. Fifty esophagectomies (32 specimens with squamous cell carcinoma and 18 with adenocarcinoma) were reviewed for the presence of Barrett's mucosa. The whole resected specimens were cut, and a total of 1677 blocks (measuring up to 4.0 x 0.5 cm) were obtained. In resections with squamous cell carcinoma, a mean of 33.6 sections (range, 16 to 55 sections) were excised, and in those with adenocarcinomas, a mean of 33.4 sections (range, ten to 60 sections) were cut. Barrett's mucosa (without or with dysplasia) was present in all 18 specimens with an adenocarcinoma (100%) and in 13 of the 32 specimens (40.6%) with squamous cell carcinoma. In ten of the 13 specimens with squamous cell carcinoma, adjacent areas with high-grade squamous cell dysplasia were found. The squamous cell carcinoma and/or the adjacent squamous cell dysplasia were found separated from the Barrett's mucosa by normal squamous epithelium, supporting the view that these two lesions are not related to one another. Early clinical and experimental data showed that squamous cell dysplasia antedated the development of squamous cell carcinoma in that organ. One possible suggestive of these findings is that the detection of a Barrett's esophagus (without or with dysplasia) should prompt the endoscopist also to examine carefully the rest of the esophagus to exclude mucosal alterations possibly connected with squamous cell carcinogenesis in that organ. 
Intractable ulcerating enterocolitis of infancy. Five children (three boys, two girls) presenting in the first year of life with intractable diarrhoea had a number of features in common. All had ulcerating stomatitis, four had partial villous atrophy on small intestinal biopsy, all had colitis characterised by large ulcers with overhanging edges, and four had severe perianal disease; no stool pathogens were detected. Treatment with steroids, sulphasalazine, and azathioprine was unsuccessful. All five required subtotal colectomy. Four were children of consanguinous marriages, two were siblings of Pakistani origin, two were cousins of Arab origin, and the fifth was Portuguese. Although the diagnoses of Behcet's disease and Crohn's disease were considered, it appears that these children represent a distinct inherited condition affecting the whole gastrointestinal tract, particularly the colon. 
Efficacy of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging for differentiation between superficial and muscle-invasive tumor of the bladder: a comparative study with computerized tomography and transurethral ultrasonography. Gadolinium-labeled diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was evaluated in an effort to clarify whether MRI could replace or be proved to be superior to computerized tomography (CT) and/or transurethral ultrasonography. A total of 57 bladder cancer patients was evaluated. MRI was performed with a superconducting magnet operating at 1.5 Tesla. The images acquired were multisections, having a fast spin-echo pulse sequence of less than a 14-second breath holding. Serial scans were performed before and immediately after Gd-DTPA venous injection. The findings on different imaging techniques were compared with the histological stagings. A proper diagnosis was made in 42 of 57 cases (73.7%) by Gd-DTPA-enhanced MRI, in 27 of 57 (47.4%) by CT and in 31 of 57 (54.4%) by transurethral ultrasonography when comparing the histological findings. The sensitivity and specificity for differentiating superficial and muscle-invasive tumor of each imaging method were, respectively, 96.2 and 83.3% in Gd-DTPA-enhanced MRI, 96.0 and 58.3% in CT, and 88.0 and 66.7% in transurethral ultrasonography. These data suggest that the staging of bladder cancer by Gd-DTPA-enhanced MRI appears to be superior and more accurate than the staging obtained by CT and transurethral ultrasonography. 
A prospective study to evaluate the dose of vitamin D required to correct low 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels, calcium, and alkaline phosphatase in patients at risk of developing antiepileptic drug-induced osteomalacia. The dose of vitamin D3 required to maintain normal serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in epileptic patients was evaluated in a prospective study. Patients were divided into two groups, comprising 14 institutionalized and 18 non-institutionalized subjects; they were taking carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbitone, alone or in combination. The study was divided into a dose titration stage and a further period of assessment on a fixed dose after attainment of normal serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels. Seventeen of the 18 non-institutionalized patients achieved normal levels over a period of 12 months; the remaining patient became normal after 15 months. The dose required to achieve normal levels ranged from 400 to 4000 IU/day; three patients required less than 2400 IU vitamin D3, 12 required 2400 IU and three required greater than 2400 IU. All institutionalized patients achieved normal levels over a period of 12 months; six patients required less than 2400 IU, six required 2400 IU and two required greater than 2400 IU vitamin D3. Raised alkaline phosphatase levels occurred in 11 patients, and reverted to normal in six patients during the initial return of 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels to normal. During the second 12 months, when patients were taking a fixed dose of vitamin D3, alkaline phosphatase increased in five patients who had achieved normal levels. During this phase normal 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels were not maintained in five patients. There was a significant seasonal variation of 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels institutionalized patients, being highest in June and lowest in December. Our findings show that while there was a wide range in the dose required to achieve normal serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels--between 400 and 4000 IU/day--78 per cent of patients responded to a dose of 2400 IU/day. 
Effects on quality of life with comprehensive rehabilitation after acute myocardial infarction. This investigation was designed to determine the impact of a brief period of cardiac rehabilitation, initiated within 6 weeks of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), on both disease-specific and generic health-related quality of life, exercise tolerance and return to work after AMI. With a stratified, parallel group design, 201 low-risk patients with evidence of depression or anxiety, or both, after AMI, were randomized to either an 8-week program of exercise conditioning and behavioral counseling or to conventional care. Although the differences were small, significantly greater improvement was seen in rehabilitation group patients at 8 weeks in the emotions dimension of a new disease-specific, health-related Quality of Life Questionnaire, in their state of anxiety and in exercise tolerance. All measures of health-related quality of life in both groups improved significantly over the 12-month follow-up period. However, the 95% confidence intervals around differences between groups at the 12-month follow-up effectively excluded sustained, clinically important benefits of rehabilitation in disease-specific (limitations, -2.70, 1.40; emotions, -4.86, 1.10, where negative values favor conventional care and positive values favor rehabilitation) and generic health-related quality of life (time trade-off, -0.062, 0.052; quality of well-being, -0.042, 0.035) or in exercise tolerance (-38.5, 52.1 kpm/min); also, return to work was similar in the 2 groups (relative risk, 0.93; confidence interval, 0.71, 1.64). 
Prediction of uneventful cardioversion and maintenance of sinus rhythm from direct-current electrical cardioversion of chronic atrial fibrillation and flutter. The present study was undertaken to reassess prospectively the immediate and long-term results of direct-current electrical cardioversion in chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, and to determine factors predicting clinical outcome of the arrhythmia after direct-current cardioversion. Two-hundred forty-six patients underwent direct-current electrical cardioversion and were followed during a mean of 260 days. Multivariate analysis was used to identify factors predicting short- and long-term arrhythmia outcome. Cardioversion was achieved in 70% of patients with atrial fibrillation and in 96% of patients with atrial flutter. Stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that arrhythmia duration (p less than 0.001), type of arrhythmia (fibrillation vs flutter, p less than 0.02) and age (p less than 0.05) independently influenced conversion rate. On an actuarial basis, 42 and 36% of patients remained in sinus rhythm during 1 and 2 years, respectively. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that the type of arrhythmia (p = 0.0008), low precardioversion functional class (p = 0.002) and the presence of nonrheumatic mitral valve disease (p = 0.03) independently increased the length of the arrhythmia-free episode. Rheumatic heart disease shortened this period (p = 0.03). In conclusion, patients having a high probability of conversion together with a prolonged post-shock arrhythmia-free episode can be identified. This may improve the cost-benefit ratio of cardioversion. 
Recurrent abdominal pain due to chronic appendiceal disease. Recurrent appendicitis and chronic appendicitis are the subjects of much controversy, but long-standing inflammation of the appendix and surrounding tissues has been reported in rare instances. We have described two patients, both with recurrent episodes of abdominal pain, who subsequently were shown to have chronic appendiceal disease. Appendiceal disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with recurrent abdominal pain. 
Epilepsy: disappearing lesions appearing in the United Kingdom OBJECTIVE--Investigation of spontaneously resolving lesions associated with epilepsy. DESIGN--Observational study during one year. SETTING--One neurology department. PATIENTS--4 cases in patients (one of Indian parents, one African, one white English, and one Afro-Caribbean) resident in the United Kingdom, who presented with transient epilepsy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Findings on computed tomography and on screening for infections. RESULTS--In all four cases a small mass lesion in one cerebral hemisphere was observed on computed tomography, which resolved after 9, 4, 3 and 1.5 months respectively without surgery. CONCLUSIONS--The number of cases seen in one year suggests that the lesions may be more common in the United Kingdom than previously recognised and that research into their cause is warranted. 
Effect of beta-blockers on exercise physiology: implications for exercise training. We conducted a series of studies aimed at investigating the effect of beta-blockers on exercise physiology. On the basis of these and other existing studies, it is possible to draw the following conclusions and to make the following tentative recommendations for patients engaged in exercise training who receive beta-blocker therapy: i) CAD patients treated with beta-blockers are capable of deriving the expected enhancement of cardiorespiratory fitness during training, irrespective of the type of drug used; ii) beta1-selective blockers are preferable to nonselective agents for hypertensive patients engaged in exercise training; iii) because beta1-selective blockers impair exercise tolerance in some hypertensive patients, physicians should look out for this adverse reaction and, if present, consider alternative antihypertensive therapy; iv) intrinsic sympathomimetic activity confers no advantage during exercise training; v) exercise intensity prescription for patients receiving beta-blockers should be in accordance with traditional guidelines and based on results of individualized exercise testing performed on medication; vi) exercise training is desirable during beta-blocker therapy in that it appears to offset adverse alterations in lipoprotein metabolism; and vii) nonselective beta-blockers may increase predisposition to exertional hyperthermia, and patients must therefore be encouraged to adhere strictly to accepted guidelines for heat injury prevention. 
Classification and natural history of clinically identifiable subtypes of cerebral infarction. We describe the incidence and natural history of four clinically identifiable subgroups of cerebral infarction in a community-based study of 675 patients with first-ever stroke. Of 543 patients with a cerebral infarct, 92 (17%) had large anterior circulation infarcts with both cortical and subcortical involvement (total anterior circulation infarcts, TACI); 185 (34%) had more restricted and predominantly cortical infarcts (partial anterior circulation infarcts, PACI); 129 (24%) had infarcts clearly associated with the vertebrobasilar arterial territory (posterior circulation infarcts, POCI); and 137 (25%) had infarcts confined to the territory of the deep perforating arteries (lacunar infarcts, LACI). There were striking differences in natural history between the groups. The TACI group had a negligible chance of good functional outcome and mortality was high. More than twice as many deaths were due to the complications of immobility than to direct neurological sequelae of the infarct. Patients in the PACI group were much more likely to have an early recurrent stroke than were patients in other groups. Those in the POCI group were at greater risk of a recurrent stroke later in the first year after the index event but had the best chance of a good functional outcome. Despite the small anatomical size of the infarcts in the LACI group, many patients remained substantially handicapped. The findings have important implications for the planning of stroke treatment trials and suggest that various therapies could be directed specifically at the subgroups. 
Choleriform syndrome and production of labile enterotoxin (CT/LT1)-like antigen by species of Salmonella infantis and Salmonella haardt isolated from the same patient. Isolates of Salmonella infantis from the stool and blood and an isolate of Salmonella haardt from the stool of a patient with choleriform diarrhea produced labile enterotoxin (CT/LT1)-like antigen. Genetic and molecular experiments indicated that the production of CT/LT1-like antigen was chromosomally encoded. 
Transethmoid decompression of the optic nerve in head injuries: an update. Sixty-three patients with loss of vision following head injury were subjected to decompression of the optic nerve by the transethmoid route. This paper discusses the criteria for selection of patients for surgery, the results of the operation and the prognostic factors determining the results. 
CA 125 regression: a model for epithelial ovarian cancer response. The rate of decline of CA 125 in effectively treated epithelial ovarian cancer is described by the exponential regression curve CA 125 = EXP [i - s (days after surgery)]. In this equation i, the y-axis intercept, measures initial tumor burden whereas s, the slope of the regression curve, is determined by the extent of cytoreductive surgery and the subsequent response to chemotherapy. Departure from the regression curve uniformly results in progressive disease. In patients whose cancers had been completely removed, we calculated the mean half-life of CA 125 to be 10.4 days (range 4 to 21). In this case s = 0.0835 and characterizes the ideal regression rate. The model predicts that high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy (s = 0.0671) is more effective than low-dose cisplatin (s = 0.0380) (p less than 0.03) in eliminating residual cancer. Because s can be calculated within 2 to 3 months of treatment and then compared with s for the ideal regression curve and with the values of s reported for standard chemotherapy, evaluation of any new treatment protocol can be facilitated with this method. 
A randomized controlled trial of adjuvant immunotherapy (murine monoclonal antibody 494/32) in resectable pancreatic cancer. In a prospective randomized multicentric trial, 61 patients from six hospitals with resectable pancreatic cancer were recruited between 1987 and 1989. All patients underwent a Whipple resection. Two weeks after surgery, the patients were randomized to be given either intravenous (IV) treatment with 370 mg (100 mg loading dose, 9 x 30 mg continuing within 10 days) of monoclonal antibody (MoAb) 494/32 (Behringwerke AG, Marsburg, Germany) or no additional anti-cancer treatment. This murine immunoglobulin (Ig) G1 antibody has been shown to strongly bind to human pancreatic cancer cells and to induce an antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Both study groups were well matched with respect to age, sex, tumor staging, and grading. Six patients suffered from minor toxicity (vomiting and abdominal pain) after immunotherapy. Ten months after the end of the recruitment period, 65% and 53% of the patients in the treatment and control groups, respectively, had died. Of the living patients, 60% and 53% are alive with recurrent or progressive cancer disease. Median survival time was 428 days (range, 248 to 510 days) and 386 days (range, 296 to 509 days) in the treatment and control groups, respectively. The authors concluded that repeated IV treatment with the antibody 494/32 is not helpful in resectable pancreatic cancer. This study provides the first controlled data on passive immunotherapy in solid cancer. 
Immunohistochemical study of thyroid peroxidase in normal, hyperplastic, and neoplastic human thyroid tissues. An immunohistochemical study using two monoclonal antibodies (MoAb 30 and MoAb 47) against thyroid peroxidase (TPO) was performed on surgical specimens of human thyroid carcinoma (n = 65), adenoma (n = 70) and Graves' disease (n = 10). Normal adjacent thyroid tissue was used as positive control. Monoclonal antibody 30 reacted significantly with all adenoma and most carcinoma, whereas MoAb 47 reacted with 66 adenoma but only two carcinoma. Of the four adenomas that did not react with MoAb 47, three were of the fetal type. Both carcinoma reacting with MoAb 47 were of the well-differentiated follicular type. These findings further confirm the hypothesis that thyroid carcinoma is associated with changes in the quantity and antigenic properties of TPO. Although the alterations in antigenic behavior revealed by MoAb 47 are not 100% specific, they may allow more accurate diagnosis of malignancy in thyroid tumors. 
Time course of intracellular edema and epileptiform activity following prenatal cerebral ischemia in sheep. The role of edema in the pathogenesis of hypoxic-ischemic injury in the immature brain is controversial. We studied 15 chronically instrumented fetal sheep following transient cerebral ischemia, to estimate changes in extracellular space using an impedance technique, to quantify the electroencephalogram with real-time spectral analysis, and to assess histologic outcome 3 days after the insult. These measurements were made in the parasagittal cortex. There was a rapid loss of extracellular space from 5 +/- 2 minutes after the onset of ischemia. Following 10 minutes of ischemia (n = 7) the intracellular edema peaked but then quickly resolved (6 +/- 4 minutes), and mild selective neuronal loss was seen. In contrast, the swelling was biphasic after 30-40 minutes of ischemia (n = 8). The early edema resolved slowly (28 +/- 12 minutes) but incompletely, and secondary swelling began at 7 +/- 2 hours and peaked at 28 +/- 6 hours. The early swelling was the more severe. Postinsult epileptiform activity began at 8 +/- 2 hours and peaked at 10 +/- 3 hours; later there was laminar necrosis of the underlying cortex. The secondary decrease of extracellular space indicates that a progressive loss of membrane function started with the onset of postischemic epileptiform activity. The increased metabolic load of the epileptiform activity may have worsened this delayed deterioration. 
Thermal ablation of the gallbladder. Gallbladder ablation by means of injection of hot contrast medium was attempted in 13 dogs. Room temperature contrast medium was injected into the gallbladders of two additional dogs (controls). After midline laparotomy was performed to expose the gallbladder, temperature probes were placed in the liver adjacent to the gallbladder, and on the surface and in the lumen of the gallbladder. A 7-F catheter with multiple side holes was placed into the gallbladder. The cystic duct was clamped during the procedure. After injection of boiling contrast medium, the mean temperature in the gallbladder lumen was 80 degrees C; in the adjacent liver, 43.5 degrees C; and on the gallbladder surface, 45.8 degrees C. After the procedure, the cystic duct was unclamped, temperature probes and catheter were removed, and the laparotomy was closed in standard fashion. In the hot contrast medium group, one dog each was sacrificed at 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks, and at 6 months. Six animals were sacrificed at 1 year. The gallbladder was completely ablated in 11 of 13 animals in the hot contrast medium group. One dog was sacrificed at 8 days because of bile leakage, and another was sacrificed at 17 days because of gallbladder rupture. The two control animals were sacrificed at 12 and 13 weeks, and their gallbladders were normal at that time. 
Hypnotically induced auditory hallucinations and the mouth-opening maneuver: a failure to duplicate findings. OBJECTIVE: The authors sought to replicate the part of a study by Bick and Kinsbourne in which hypnotically induced auditory hallucinations in normal volunteer subjects were abolished by requiring the subjects to open their mouths. METHODS: Sixty-four normal volunteer subjects were hypnotized, and an attempt was made to induce auditory hallucinations. The subjects in whom hallucinations were successfully induced were then asked to perform the mouth-opening maneuver and the control maneuvers of putting their fingers in their ears or squeezing their eyes shut in an effort to end the hallucinations. RESULTS: Sixteen subjects reported having hallucinations. None of them reported that a hallucination was abolished by opening the mouth or closing the eye; four reported ending hallucinations by putting their fingers in their ears. CONCLUSIONS: Opening the mouth does not affect auditory hallucinations induced by hypnosis in normal persons. The most likely reason for the discrepancy between the results of this experiment and those of the Bick and Kinsbourne study is that the design of the latter study was faulty because it permitted demand characteristics to influence the results. 
Evaluation, treatment, and follow-up results of post polio patients with dysphagia. Twenty consecutive patients were evaluated for reports of dysphagia from post-polio clinics. Only half the patients reported a history of swallowing problems at the time of their acute poliomyelitis. Each patient received a videofluorographic evaluation of the oral and pharyngeal phases of swallowing, and then was provided with recommendations to improve swallowing skills. A follow-up questionnaire was sent to all patients. The respondents had an average interval of 12 months since the initial evaluation. Of the 18 patients responding to the questionnaire, 14 (77%) reported regular use of the swallowing suggestions. Comparison of pre-evaluation results to followup of the 18 respondents yielded a statistically significant decline in the frequency of choking (p = 0.0156) and food sticking in the throat (p = 0.0195). We conclude that a dysphagia program can result in significant improvement of the swallowing symptoms reported with the post-polio population. 
Altered noradrenergic projection to hypothalamus via baroreflex in spontaneously hypertensive rats. To determine whether noradrenergic projections to the posterior hypothalamus via baroreflex are altered in the hypertensive state, the extracellular norepinephrine (NE) content of the posterior hypothalamus was measured in both spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) after sinoaortic denervation (SAD) or sham operation. In WKY, blood pressure (BP) and extracellular NE content 24 h after SAD were significantly higher than those of sham-operated rats. Contrarily, SAD did not increase both BP and NE in the posterior hypothalamus of SHR. These results suggest that the noradrenergic pathway via the baroreflex is impaired in SHR. This mechanism may play an important role in the development and maintenance of hypertension in SHR. 
Characteristics of left ventricular filling in coronary artery disease and myocardial ischaemia after dipyridamole provocation. Doppler echocardiographic measurement of transmitral filling velocities seems to be a sensitive marker for resting left ventricular diastolic abnormalities in patients with coronary artery disease. The behaviour of these filling velocities during induced myocardial ischaemia, however, has not been fully studied. Left ventricular filling was assessed by pulsed Doppler ultrasound in 21 patients with angina pectoris and coronary artery disease and in five controls (patients with chest pain but without myocardial ischaemia). High dose dipyridamole infusion (0.9 mg/kg over 10 minutes) was used to provoke myocardial ischaemia, which was assessed by symptoms and electrocardiographic ST segment change. Doppler indices of diastolic filling were measured and the results expressed as percentage change from baseline values. Dipyridamole increased the heart rate and reduced systolic blood pressure equally in both groups. In the controls dipyridamole increased the peak filling velocities of both the early and atrial filling waves. In the 12 patients with coronary artery disease who did not develop evidence of myocardial ischaemia, the effect on left ventricular filling velocity resembled that in the controls though the time to peak change was delayed. Six of the nine patients with dipyridamole induced myocardial ischaemia had a significantly reduced maximum changes in early (+30% v +18%) and atrial (-0.2% v +33%) filling velocities compared with the controls. The remaining three patients had a decrease in early filling velocity (-20%) with an associated increase in atrial peak filling velocity (+21%). Dipyridamole increased diastolic filling velocities in the controls. In patients with coronary artery disease there was a variable change in diastolic filling indices which may be attributed either to the degree of myocardial ischaemia or to the different haemodynamic changes occurring during myocardial ischaemia. 
Fine needle aspiration biopsy of superficial masses in children. Fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) is an underused diagnostic procedure in children, particularly in the evaluation of superficial masses. A total of 54 FNABs of superficial masses were performed in children aged 1 month to 15 years. Adequate material for diagnosis was obtained in 50 attempts. The cytologic diagnosis increased clinical understanding and provided a guide for treatment in 46 of the 50 cases. The cytologic diagnosis was confirmed in 15 of 19 patients who underwent an operation. Surgical intervention was obviated in 31 patients. There was one false-positive diagnosis of cancer. We describe the role of FNAB in children and its technique, accuracy, and diagnostic problems. 
A meta-analysis of prophylactic antibiotics in head and neck surgery. Although it is generally agreed that prophylactic antibiotics are necessary for the prevention of postoperative wound infection, the choice of antibiotic regimen is controversial. In an attempt to determine the most effective antibiotic regimen, a meta-analysis of published clinical trials of prophylactic antibiotics for head and neck surgery was undertaken. The meta-analysis revealed a relative difference in infection rates of 43.7 percent in favor of the use of antibiotics versus placebo, of 8.3 percent in favor of multiple antibiotics versus a single antibiotic, of 13.7 percent in favor of multiple antibiotics versus cefazolin, and of 4.1 percent in favor of multiple-day prophylaxis versus single-day prophylaxis. This meta-analysis suggests that a 1-day course of clindamycin may be the most effective prophylactic antibiotic regimen for head and neck surgery. 
Nonpalpable invasive breast cancer. The use of mammography has resulted in 1464 breast biopsies for nonpalpable abnormalities at the University of Virginia in the 10 years 1980 to 1989. Two hundred sixty-four cancerous lesions (18%) were found. One hundred seventy-eight of these (67%) were in situ lesions. Invasive cancer (86 of 264 lesions or 33%) forms the basis for this report. Mammographic findings leading to biopsy were a mass in 61 of 86 cases (71%), microcalcifications in 23 of 86 (27%), or both in 2 of 86 cases. Histologic subtypes were infiltrating ductal (63 of 86), infiltrating lobular (14 of 86), and other infiltrating (9 of 86). Mastectomy was performed in 71 of 86 lesions (82%), lumpectomy/radiation in 14 of 86 (16%), and lumpectomy alone in 1 of 86 lesions. Division of the tumors into size with nodal status revealed 19 of 86 lesions (22%) less than 0.5 cm with 0 of 14 positive nodes. Thirty-nine of eighty-six lesions (46%) measured 0.6 to 1.0 cm with 10 (26%) positive nodes. Twenty-eight of eighty-six lesions (32%) measured more than 1.0 cm with 8 of 28 (28%) positive nodes. Nodal status is unknown for eight patients. Overall 18 of 78 lesions (23%) had positive nodes. Median follow-up is 44 months. Disease-free survival rate is 92% (79 of 86 patients) and overall survival rate is 94% (81 of 86 patients). Six of seven recurrences occurred in node-positive patients. For those with negative or unknown nodes, the disease-free survival rate is 98% (67 of 68 patients). These findings emphasize the benefit of early detection of breast cancer through the use of mammography. 
Volume tests for chronic venous insufficiency: an appraisal. Chronic venous disease is increasingly treated surgically with a variety of experimental procedures. Noninvasive volume tests are commonly used before surgery to select patients and after surgery to assess results. Rapid volume changes are considered to indicate regurgitation. Rigorous statistical validation of tests and the confounding nature of unmeasured arterial inflow are seldom considered. Volume changes were measured in 29 control limbs and 35 limbs with venous disease, with mercury-in-silicone rubber strain gauges, for both exercise and elevation. Normalization for arterial flow permitted calculation of the regurgitation rate. Normal (95% confidence) limits for measured and calculated parameters were determined. Specificity was shown by the percent of normal parameter values for control limbs and sensitivity by the percent of abnormal values for extremities with venous disease. Arterial flow significantly altered volume curves. Normalization increased specificity and sensitivity significantly. Calf exercise tests, even normalized, were too insensitive to be reliable. Elevation tests were significantly more sensitive for determining regurgitation. However, exercise tests were useful and supplied important information about the calf muscle pump. We conclude that, as currently used, many limb volume test procedures are unsuitable but could be improved significantly by normalization to reduce the confounding effect of regional arterial flow and use of an elevation test to measure regurgitation. 
Angiographically assessed coronary arterial patency and reocclusion in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with anistreplase: results of the anistreplase reocclusion multicenter study (ARMS). In this open multicenter study, 156 patients with acute myocardial infarction received 30 U of anistreplase intravenously over 5 minutes within 4 hours of the onset of chest pain. The patency of the infarct-related vessel was determined by coronary angiography 90 minutes after anistreplase treatment, and also 24 hours after treatment, in patients with a patent infarct-related vessel at 90 minutes, to assess the reocclusion rate. The investigators categorized the infarct-related vessel as patent or occluded, and 2 independent cardiologists graded the infarct-related vessel according to the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) perfusion criteria. At the 90-minute assessment, 106 of 145 evaluable patients (73%) had patent infarct-related vessels, and 39 of 145 (27%) had occluded infarct-related vessels. Of the 139 independently assessed patients, 98 (71%) had TIMI grades 2 or 3 and 41 (29%) had TIMI grades 0 or 1. At the 24-hour assessment, 98 of 102 patients (96%) had a patent infarct-related vessel, and reocclusion had occurred in 4 of 102 patients (4%). Of the 94 independently assessed patients 90 (96%) had TIMI grades 2 or 3, and 4 (4%) had TIMI grades 0 or 1. The reliability of noninvasive parameters as indicators of achieved patency of the infarct-related vessel was estimated by means of correlation with patency assessed by coronary angiography. A significant correlation of 0.62 was found. The patency rate of 71 to 73% after use of anistreplase in patients with acute myocardial infarction corresponds with findings in earlier studies. The low reocclusion rate of 4% after use of anistreplase probably reflects the prolonged action of anistreplase. 
Prospective hospital based study on persistent diarrhoea. A total of 383 children aged less than 5 years suffering from acute watery diarrhoea or dysentery were studied in hospital to determine the rate of persistent diarrhoea. Altogether 335 (87.5%) recovered within 13 days. Only in 48 (12.5%) did the diarrhoea continue for 14 days or more, and they were considered as having persistent diarrhoea. Children aged between 7 and 18 months had a significantly increased incidence of persistent diarrhoea. Children suffering from grade II-IV malnutrition constituted the majority (70.8%) of those with persistent diarrhoea. Higher rates of isolation of Shigella flexneri, Shigella dysenteriae 1, and Salmonella typhimurium were observed among patients with persistent diarrhoea than in those with diarrhoea of shorter duration. No positive correlations were observed between the clinical severity of disease at hospital admission and measles. Breast fed babies were not prone to persistent diarrhoea. 
Magnetic resonance assessment of the postoperative spine. Degenerative disc disease. The magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings in patients after surgery for degenerative disc disease in the lumbar and cervical spine are discussed. In the lumbar spine, changes seen in the immediate postoperative period, use of Gd-DTPA in distinguishing scar and disc and postoperative complications are reviewed. In the cervical spine, operative approaches and types, the appearance of bony stenosis, and disc herniations are demonstrated. 
MR imaging of small hepatocellular carcinoma: effect of intratumoral copper content on signal intensity. Small (less than 5 cm) hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) in 45 of 112 patients (40.2%) had a high-signal-intensity pattern (relative to that of liver) on T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images. To identify the cause of this pattern, specimens of histologically defined HCC with high- (n = 21), iso- (n = 6), and low- (n = 22) intensity patterns were histologically evaluated for paramagnetic ionic forms of metals. The incidence of steatosis, clear cell formation, and copper accumulation was statistically (P less than .01) higher in tumors with the high-intensity pattern than in those with other patterns. Of 17 HCCs that stained positive for copper, 16 (94%) had a high-intensity pattern; the pattern of one tumor (6%) was isointense. All 21 tumors with the high-intensity pattern had at least one of the findings of steatosis, clear cell formation, or copper accumulation. These features were evident in only four of 28 tumors (14%) with an iso- or low-intensity pattern. Thus, copper accumulation might be a cause of the high-intensity pattern on T1-weighted images of small HCCs. 
Experience with surgical resection of heterotopic bone in spinal cord injury patients. Extensive heterotopic ossification may occur after a spinal cord injury. Surgical removal of the heterotopic bone is considered only in patients who develop limitations of function or related skin pressure areas. In a prospective study of 21 patients, a total of 43 surgical procedures were performed to resect heterotopic bone. Long-term follow-up study was available for 18 patients who had 38 surgical procedures. This was a descriptive study since preoperative, surgical, and postoperative care varied slightly over time and were dependent on newer advances in surgical techniques and therapeutic agents. Primary complications included excessive bleeding, infection, fractures, and recurrence of the heterotopic ossification. Procedures are outlined that may reduce the incidence of postoperative infection. Fractures are related to the degree of regional osteoporosis. Recurrence is still a common problem, and any or all therapeutic agents that may reduce the extent of postoperative recurrence should be considered before surgical excision is planned. 
Decrease in resting metabolic rate during abstinence from bulimic behavior. Among eight normal-weight bulimic women studied during 1 week of binge eating and vomiting and 7 weeks of abstinence without weight loss, resting metabolic rate and T3 and T4 levels fell significantly during abstinence. These data suggest that a physiological consequence of binge eating and vomiting is an increase in metabolic rate, in part due to increased thyroid hormone activity. 
Reconstruction of the sternum and anterior chest wall using autologous tissues. We have described the successful reconstruction of a completely resected anterior chest wall using autologous tissues. This case demonstrates feasibility despite known potential contamination and serious postoperative physiologic dysfunction. 
Immediate mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates. Mandibular reconstruction at the time of tumor resection remains a surgical dilemma. Primary reconstruction allows for immediate reconstitution of mandibular form and function. Various methods have been attempted, but none enjoys uniform success. With advances in the field of microvascular surgery have come numerous options in replacing these defects. These procedures, however, require special surgical teams and are associated with an increase in operative time as well as morbidity at the donor site. An alternative method involves the use of mandibular reconstruction plates to bridge the defect between segments. This review focuses on 19 patients whose jaws were reconstructed in this fashion. Although not free of complications, mandibular plate reconstruction offers the advantages of (1) lack of donor site morbidity, (2) expediency, (3) excellent mandibular contour, and (4) the ability to reconstruct the condyle when necessary. The technique, results, and complications associated with this procedure are discussed. 
Aneurysm of the distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery unrelated to the cerebellopontine angle: case report. This is a case report of an unusual aneurysm of the distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery. A 44-year-old woman had a severe frontal headache and vomiting of sudden onset. On the day after admission, the patient began to demonstrate nuchal rigidity and difficulty with upward gaze bilaterally. There were no complaints at this time suggestive of a syndrome of the cerebellopontine angle. A computed tomographic scan revealed an intraventricular hemorrhage of the 3rd and 4th ventricles; however, multiple attempts at four-vessel angiography were required before an aneurysm could be demonstrated. On the 28th hospital day, a suboccipital craniectomy using the retromastoid approach in the lateral position was performed. A saccular aneurysm with a surrounding hematoma in the distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery was found and clipped. The operative findings revealed that the aneurysm was unrelated to the cerebellopontine angle. After surgery, the patient had an uneventful recovery and complete resolution of symptoms. 
Astigmatism after small incision cataract surgery. A prospective, randomized, multicenter comparison of 4- and 6.5-mm incisions Four surgeons evaluated induced astigmatism and postoperative wound stability in a randomized prospective study of 130 patients undergoing cataract extraction. After phacoemulsification through a scleral pocket, patients received either a 6.5-mm diameter silicone optic posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC IOL) folded for insertion through a 4-mm small incision or a 6.0-mm diameter polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) optic PC IOL placed through an approximately 6.5-mm conventional incision. Vector analysis calculations of prism diopters (D) of mean postoperative-induced keratometric astigmatism for the small incision versus conventional incision groups were, at day 1, 1.54 D versus 3.07 D (P less than 0.0001); at weeks 1 to 2, 1.00 D versus 2.43 D (P less than 0.0001); at 1 month, 0.98 D versus 1.44 D (P = 0.004); and at 3 months, 0.82 D versus 1.03 D (P = 0.089). Subgroup analysis of the suturing technique for the 6.5-mm incision showed that the technique of wound closure, as well as the wound size, influenced the induced astigmatism. For all four surgeons using three methods of suturing the 6.5-mm wound, however, the variability in the amount of induced cylinder was least with the 4.0-mm wound closed with a horizontal mattress suture. Complications in the two groups were comparable. 
Difficult diagnoses in toxicology. Poisons not detected by the comprehensive drug screen. The comprehensive drug screen has serious limitations when used as the sole study for diagnosing intoxication. A careful history and physical examination in the poisoned patient can provide important clues that point to possible toxins. Ancillary studies help differentiate the most likely poison and guide treatment. Fortunately, most poison victims do well with supportive care alone. However, the clinician should be aware of agents that can cause significant harm to patients if not detected and treated quickly. Iron and carbon monoxide are good examples of lethal agents that need a high index of clinical suspicion for early recognition and require specific therapy to ensure a good outcome. Patients who overdose with clonidine, calcium-channel blockers, beta-adrenergic blockers, or albuterol must be managed expectantly and according to their clinical presentation because rapid laboratory verification is not available for these poisons. In all situations, the clinician must integrate information from history, physical examination, and laboratory to render the best care. 
Solitary pulmonary nodules: comparison of classification with standard, thin-section, and reference phantom CT. Standard, thin-section, and reference phantom computed tomography (CT) were performed to evaluate 75 consecutive patients with solitary pulmonary nodules. Follow-up was available for 62 nodules in 59 patients; 53 of the nodules were benign and nine were malignant. Twenty-one of the 62 nodules were assessed as benign with thin-section CT, while 33 of the 62 nodules were assessed as benign with reference phantom CT. Two of the nodules classified as benign with both thin-section and reference phantom CT proved to be malignant (a peripheral, ossified carcinoid and a 3.5-cm-diameter calcified carcinoma). The sensitivity of reference phantom CT (58%) for classification of benign nodules was higher than the sensitivity of thin-section CT (36%). The sensitivity of standard CT was lowest (12%). The presence of fat at thin-section CT was a reliable criterion for benignancy in six hamartomas. While both thin-section and reference phantom CT were useful in the identification of benign pulmonary nodules, reference phantom CT increased sensitivity by 22% compared with thin-section CT. 
Medulloblastoma: long-term follow-up of patients treated with electron irradiation of the spinal field. Thirty-two patients with posterior fossa medulloblastoma underwent treatment with electron irradiation to the spinal field. The 5- and 10-year actuarial survival rates were 57% and 50%, respectively. Late complications observed in the 15 patients followed up for more than 5 years were short stature (six patients), decreased sitting-standing height ratio (four patients), scoliosis (two patients), poor school performance (seven patients), xerostomia (one patient), esophageal stricture (one patient), pituitary dysfunction (four patients), primary hypothyroidism (one patient), bilateral eighth-nerve deafness (one patient), and carcinoma of the thyroid (one patient). Complications following treatment with electrons to a spinal field are compared with reported complications following treatment with photons to the spinal field. Although short-term reactions were minimal, the authors found no difference in late complications. More sophisticated treatment planning may show such a long-term benefit in the future. 
Psychological events are both risk factors in, and consequences of, chronic pain. This study questioned 2 assumptions often inherent in psychogenic explanations of pain: (1) that a relationship exists between pain and life events predating pain onset, and (2) that pain patients are a psychologically homogeneous group. Chronic pain sufferers in multiple settings and control subjects participated in this study in which the relationships between pain and 20 psychological variables were examined. Pain was defined and assessed in 3 different ways: (1) membership in a pain group, (2) number of specialists consulted for pain, and (3) pain intensity. Of the 20 psychological variables examined, only less emotional repression and greater "ergomania" (excessive work) were consistently associated with pain on all 3 pain criteria. In addition, pain patients were more likely to have had a relative with pain. Comparisons of pain patients in different settings showed that pain clinic patients reported having been more active throughout their lives, but were currently more depressed and experienced less life satisfaction than patients who were not in a specialized pain centre. These results are interpreted in the light of current multicausal views of pain and conclusions are drawn about the role of psychological variables both as risk factors in, and as consequences of pain. 
Cholestasis without cirrhosis alters regulatory liver gene expression and inhibits hepatic regeneration. Partial hepatectomy (PH) initiates cellular signals for regeneration. Sequential expression of nuclear and cytosolic protooncogenes accompanies the restoration of normal liver function and architecture. Although cirrhosis is known to inhibit liver regeneration, the effects of noncirrhotic cholestasis on hepatocellular proliferation, differentiation, and regulatory gene expression are unknown. To examine this, 25 male Fisher rats underwent common bile duct ligation and division. A 47% +/- 5% PH was performed 10 days after common bile duct ligation and division when histologic analysis revealed cholestasis without cirrhosis. Despite early elevations of total hepatic DNA and RNA values, cholestatic livers demonstrated a significant threefold suppression of expected hepatocyte mitotic indexes 48 and 72 hours after PH, compared with livers after PH alone. Weight restoration in cholestatic livers was 11% +/- 5.2% compared with 40% +/- 4.3% in control livers (+/- SEM; p less than 0.001) 5 days after PH. Analysis of regenerating liver messenger RNA with complementary DNA probes revealed an abnormal, sustained elevation of K-ras expression in cholestatic livers through all time points. Cholestasis blunted but did not obliterate normal sequential elevations in H-ras found in control livers. The expression of c-myc was inhibited threefold with cholestasis 72 hours after PH. These results are the first indication that cholestasis alone inhibits hepatocyte proliferation and the expression of c-myc that normally precedes the first wave of mitosis. This implies that cholestasis without cirrhosis may alter programmed liver gene expression, inhibiting normal hepatic regeneration. 
Cavernous malformations of the brain stem. Once they become symptomatic, cavernous malformations of the brain stem appear to cause progressive morbidity from repetitive hemorrhage, and can even be fatal. Twenty-four patients with long-tract and/or cranial nerve findings from their cavernous malformations of the brain stem were seen for initial evaluation or surgical consultation and thereafter received either surgical or continued conservative treatment. The decision to operate was based on the proximity of the cavernous malformation to the pial surface of the brain stem, the patient's neurological status, and the number of symptomatic episodes. Sixteen patients were treated by definitive surgery directed at excision of their malformation. In four patients, associated venous malformations influenced the surgical approach and their recognition avoided the risk of inappropriate excision of the venous malformation. Although some of the 16 patients had transient, immediate, postoperative worsening of their neurological deficits, the outcome of all except one was the same or improved. Only one patient developed recurrent symptoms: a new deficit 2 1/2 years after surgery required reoperation after regrowth of the cavernous malformation. She has been neurologically stable since the second surgery. One patient died 6 months postoperatively from a shunt infection and sepsis. The eight conservatively treated patients are followed with annual magnetic resonance imaging studies. One has a dramatic associated venous malformation. Seven patients have either minor intermittent or no symptoms, and the eighth died from a hemorrhage 1 year after his initial presentation. Based on these results, surgical extirpation of symptomatic cavernous malformations of the brain stem appears to be the treatment of choice when a patient is symptomatic, the lesion is located superficially, and an operative approach can spare eloquent tissue. When cavernous malformations of the brain stem are completely excised, cure appears permanent. 
Postoperative treatment of nonmetastatic visible residual neuroblastoma: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. The Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) evaluated in a prospective study the hypothesis that patients who had localized, visible residual neuroblastoma without regional lymph node involvement after surgery (POG stage B) have a favorable prognosis when treated with moderate intensive chemotherapy. Eligible patients were initially treated with five courses of Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide; Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Evansville, IN) and Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) followed by surgery (CY/AD +/- surgery). Those patients not achieving a complete remission (CR) crossed over to five courses of cisplatin and teniposide (PL/VM) +/- surgery. Radiation therapy (XRT) was given to selected patients who still were not in CR after the crossover therapy. Of the 61 eligible patients, 38 (62%) patients achieved CR after CY/AD proven by clinical (31) or surgical (seven) evaluation. One (2%) patient in clinical partial remission (PR-C) entered CR without further therapy. Nineteen (31%) patients achieved CR with the following salvage therapies: surgery (five), PL/VM +/- surgery (five) followed by XRT (three) or autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT) (one) and further courses of CY/AD +/- PL/VM instead of courses of PL/VM (five). The overall CR rate was 95% (58 of 61). Four patients had recurrence of the disease. The probability of being disease-free at 3 years after initial or salvage therapy was estimated at 84% (SE, 5%). The overall prognosis of children older than 1 year and younger than 1 year was similar (P = .26). If, however, the three remission deaths (all younger than 1 year) were censored, there was only one other failure in 32 children younger than one versus seven of 29 children older than 1 year (P = .018). These results confirm the excellent prognosis for patients with POG stage B neuroblastoma and indicate that most patients are curable with CY/AD +/- surgery, and those not achieving CR with this therapy are curable with alternate therapy. 
Effects of perindopril on left ventricular hypertrophy, coronary blood flow, and mechanical properties of cardiac muscle in renovascular hypertensive rats. We studied the effects of perindopril on left ventricular hypertrophy, systemic and coronary hemodynamics, and mechanical cardiac performance in renovascular hypertensive rats (Goldblatt, two-kidneys, one-clip). Systemic and coronary hemodynamics, before and after carbochrome infusion, were assessed by radioactive microspheres injection via an atrial catheter in conscious rats. Mechanical performance was measured on isolated papillary muscle from the same animal. Twelve treated hypertensive rats were compared with 10 nontreated hypertensive rats and nine sham-operated normotensive rats of the same age. Perindopril treatment induced a complete control of blood pressure (mean blood pressure from 156 +/- 22 mm Hg in the untreated group to 100 +/- 24 mm Hg in the treated group (P less than .01), compared to 106 +/- 18 mm Hg in the sham group). This was associated with a nearly complete regression of left ventricular hypertrophy (left ventricular mass/body weight 2.26 +/- 0.38 mg/g in the treated group v 3.1 +/- 0.6 in the untreated group [P less than .01], compared to 2 +/- 0.25 mg/g in the sham group [p = NS]). Minimal left ventricular coronary resistances after carbochrome were slightly higher in the hypertensive group compared both to sham and treated group. A reversal of impaired myocardial mechanical parameters towards control values was observed, except for some parameters of relaxation. We conclude that perindopril allows in this model a complete control of blood pressure, and a regression of left ventricular hypertrophy with normalization of coronary hemodynamics and contractile function. 
Serum and tissue alpha-L-fucosidase activity in the pre-clinical and clinical stages of hepatocellular carcinoma. 1. To assess the value of serum alpha-L-fucosidase (EC 3.2.1.51) as a marker for hepatocellular carcinoma, the activity was measured in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and in control subjects. 2. Mean serum alpha-L-fucosidase activity was significantly greater in 35 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (225 +/- 69 nkat/l) than in 35 patients with cirrhosis and 20 normal subjects (134 +/- 30 and 93 +/- 28 nkat/l, respectively). The overlap between hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis, however, was such as to severely limit any value of the enzyme as a diagnostic test. 3. In four cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, an increased enzyme activity was detectable in samples taken up to 66 months before the tumours were diagnosed clinically. 4. The serum activity of alpha-L-fucosidase fell to within the reference range after liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma in three patients and in one of these a subsequent rise was associated with tumour recurrence which was diagnosed at 8 months after the rise in activity. Ineffective cytotoxic chemotherapy was also associated with a progressive rise in serum alpha-L-fucosidase activity. 5. alpha-L-fucosidase activity in tumour tissue was significantly lower than that seen in non-tumour tissue from cirrhotic patients. These reductions may represent increased transport from the tissue and may partly account for the increased serum activity found in some patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Clinical cardiac positron emission tomography: state of the art. Cardiac positron emission tomography (PET) has evolved rapidly from a relatively esoteric research tool into clinical applications providing unique, quantitative information on myocardial perfusion, metabolism, and cell membrane function and having a potentially significant impact on cardiovascular medicine. Although there are many different positron radionuclides for imaging diverse myocardial behavior, three radionuclides have reached accepted clinical utility. Cardiac PET using nitrogen-13-ammonia, rubidium-82, and fluoro-18-deoxyglucose has proved accurate and definitive in multiple university and private-practice sites for diagnosing and assessing severity and location of coronary artery disease in symptomatic or asymptomatic patients, for identifying injured but viable myocardium potentially salvageable by revascularization, and for ruling out clinically significant coronary artery stenosis with a high specificity in patients who might otherwise undergo coronary arteriography to document the absence of significant disease. 
Extracorporeal shock wave treatment of common bile duct stones: experience with two different lithotriptors at a single institution. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is a new treatment modality for retained common bile duct stones. Sixty-two patients (mean age 75 years, range 27-95 years) with retained common bile duct stones were treated with two different lithotriptors. One of the lithotriptors operated on the electrohydraulic principle (Dornier HM-3) (n = 13), the other on the electromagnetic principle (Siemens Lithostar) (n = 49). All HM-3 patients were treated under general anaesthesia, whereas with the Lithostar one patients was treated under general anaesthesia, 43 received analgesia and sedation and five had no analgesia at all. Patients treated with the Lithostar had more sessions (mean 1.9 versus 1.3, P less than 0.05) and needed more stock waves (mean 8611 versus 2534, P less than 0.001) than patients treated with the HM-3. Fragmentation was achieved in all patients treated with the HM-3 and in 42 (86 per cent) patients treated with the Lithostar. In this latter group ten patients underwent common bile duct exploration without complications. Eleven patients had transient haematuria after treatment with the HM-3 and two patients (one in each group) had a subcapsular haematoma of the right kidney, all without clinical sequelae. At follow-up (median: HM-3 43 months, Lithostar 18 months), none of the patients had biliary complaints. We conclude that ESWL of retained common bile duct stones in safe and effective with both lithotriptors and should be considered before surgery in the elderly or high-risk patient. 
Open biopsy without wound closure for skeletal neoplasms. During the past several years, the indications for limb salvage in musculoskeletal neoplasms have been expanded. As a result, interest in the topic of diagnostic biopsy has been renewed. Post biopsy hematoma formation and the iatrogenic spread of cancer cells has led to universally accepted guidelines for biopsy technique. These include meticulous hemostasis and wound closure. A technique of open biopsy without wound closure in which the biopsy site in a long bone with contained neoplasm remains open and hematoma allowed to drain into the dressings is outlined. A discussion of the theoretical advantages and disadvantages of this technique is presented. 
Restored hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction by peripheral chemoreceptor agonists in dogs. Hypoxic stimulation of the peripheral chemoreceptors inhibits hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV). On the other hand, almitrine, a peripheral chemoreceptor agonist, has been reported in some studies to enhance HPV. To further explore this apparent contradiction, we investigated the effects of two different low intravenous doses of almitrine on pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) versus cardiac index (Q) plots in 32 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs ventilated alternatively in hyperoxia (FIO2, 0.4) and in hypoxia (FIO2 0.1). HPV, defined as a hypoxia-induced increase in Ppa over the entire range of Q studied, from 2 to 5 L/min/m2, was elicited in 16 dogs. In the first eight of these "responders," almitrine 2 micrograms/kg/min had no vascular effect, and in the other eight, almitrine 4 micrograms/kg/min inhibited HPV. In 16 other dogs, hypoxia did not affect Ppa over the entire range of Q. In these "nonresponders," almitrine 2 micrograms/kg/min (n = 8) as well as 4 micrograms/kg/min (n = 8) restored HPV. To answer the question whether the ability to restore HPV would be specific to almitrine, we administered intravenously the structurally unrelated chemoreceptor agonist doxapram at the dose of 20 micrograms/kg/min to an additional group of eight "nonresponders," and this treatment also restored HPV. Intravenous infusion of the malic acid solution solvent of almitrine had no effect on Ppa/Q plots in a final group of eight "nonresponders". We conclude that low dose almitrine and doxapram restore HPV in dogs with a naturally absent hypoxic pulmonary pressor response, probably by a direct effect at the pulmonary vessels. 
Syncope and orthostatic hypotension. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the postural blood pressure response over time, the prevalence of orthostatic hypotension in patients with syncope, and the relationship of orthostatic hypotension to recurrence of symptoms. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We prospectively evaluated 223 patients with syncope in a standardized manner. Orthostatic responses were measured in a standardized fashion at 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 10 minutes or until symptoms occurred. Follow-up was obtained at 3-month intervals. Causes of syncope were assigned by predetermined criteria. RESULTS: Orthostatic hypotension (20 mm Hg or greater systolic blood pressure decline) was found in 69 patients (31%). The median time to reach minimal standing systolic blood pressure was 1 minute for all subjects. In patients with orthostatic hypotension (20 mm Hg or greater), mean time to reach minimum blood pressure was 2.4 minutes. The vast majority of patients with significant orthostatic hypotension had this finding within 2 minutes of standing. Orthostatic hypotension was common in patients for whom other probable causes of syncope were assigned. The recurrence of syncope was not related to the degree of orthostatic hypotension; however, the recurrence of dizziness and syncope as end-points was lower in patients with 20 mm Hg or greater systolic blood pressure reductions as compared with patients with lesser degrees of orthostatic blood pressure declines. CONCLUSION: Orthostatic hypotension is common in patients with syncope and is detected in the vast majority of patients by 2 minutes. Although symptom recurrence on follow-up was lower in patients with more severe orthostatic hypotension, the clinical significance of this finding needs to be further defined by future studies. 
Clinical experience with the Palmaz-Schatz coronary stent. Complications that occurred in 247 patients who underwent successful elective stenting to native coronary arteries with the Palmaz-Schatz balloon expandable stent included subacute thrombosis in 7 patients (2.8%), myocardial infarction in 3 (1.2%), death 3 (1.2%), urgent bypass surgery in 4 (1.6%) and major bleeding events in 24 (9.7%). Angiographic restenosis occurred in 21 (20%) of 103 patients who received a single stent. Subgroup analysis, however, revealed that restenosis of a single stent occurred in 3 (7%) of 45 patients without prior angioplasty compared with 25 (27%) of 91 patients with prior angioplasty. Patients with "suboptimal" angioplasty results (dis-section) who received a single stent seemed to have a higher thrombosis rate perioperatively (4 [4%] of 98), but no higher incidence of restenosis (7 [15%] of 46) than that of the total group of patients who received a single stent. Coronary stenting may be a valuable adjunct to coronary angioplasty in carefully selected patients. Complication rates are similar to those of routine angioplasty; however, angiographic restenosis may be reduced in certain subsets of patients. 
No correlation between response and survival in patients with multiple myeloma treated with vincristine, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone. A vincristine, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (VMCP) multi-drug regimen was used in 85 previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma (MM) (symptomatic Durie Stages II and III) until they became refractory. The prognostic significance of various pretreatment characteristics was evaluated in terms of therapeutic response (according to Southwest Oncology Group [SWOG] and Chronic Leukemia-Myeloma Task Force [TF] criteria) and survival. Therapeutic responses, obtained in 31.2% (SWOG) and 68.7% (TF) of patients, had a significant inverse correlation with myeloma cell mass, serum calcium, and bone status. Median survival time of Stage II and Stage III patients was 39 and 34 months, respectively. Serum B2 microglobulin greater than or equal to 6 micrograms/ml was the only variable correlating unfavorably with survival duration after multi-variate analysis (increased risk = 2.79), although therapeutic response as a time-dependent variable had no effect on survival. These data suggest no correlation between response and survival, partially because of inadequate response assessment criteria and partially because no existing treatment is curative (although current therapeutic approaches may prevent death from complications). 
Temperature-dependent modulation of lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha expression in cultured human astroglial cells by dexamethasone and indomethacin. In bacterial meningitis, LPS induces production in cerebrospinal fluid of the cytokines IL-1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), which are the principle mediators of meningeal inflammation. IL-1 beta and TNF alpha induce fever, and elevated temperature may affect cytokine expression. Dexamethasone treatment improves outcome in bacterial meningitis possibly by inhibiting IL-1 beta and TNF alpha. In this report, the effects of elevated temperature and dexamethasone on LPS-stimulated IL-1 beta and TNF alpha mRNA gene expression and protein synthesis were studied in human astrocytoma cell lines and primary cultures of human fetal astrocytes. Cells cultured at 40 degrees C exhibited smaller peaks of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha transcription and protein synthesis compared with cells cultured at 37 degrees C. The addition of dexamethasone before, during, or after exposure of the cells to LPS resulted in temperature-dependent inhibition of IL-1 beta transcription and protein synthesis. The most extensive inhibition occurred in pretreated cells cultured at 37 degrees C. Cotreatment with LPS and dexamethasone also inhibited TNF alpha mRNA transcription at both temperatures. The effects of another antiinflammatory agent, indomethacin, on LPS induction of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha mRNA were temperature and cell line dependent. These findings provide a possible explanation for the efficacy of dexamethasone treatment of bacterial meningitis and support the proposal that fever may be beneficial to the host in this disease. 
Prolonged lumbar spinal drainage after the resection of tumors of the skull base: a cautionary note. A combined transcranial and facial approach was used for an en bloc resection of a malignant angiosarcoma of the ethmoid sinuses. The patient awoke neurologically intact and was monitored in the Intensive Care Unit. A lumbar subarachnoid drain was placed for the continuous removal of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Approximately 36 hours after surgery, she deteriorated neurologically and demonstrated bilateral extensor posturing to painful stimuli. A computed tomographic scan demonstrated obliteration of the basal cisterns indicative of transtentorial herniation and a small amount of extradural air. Eight hours after the lumbar drain was turned off, the patient had recovered completely. We propose that the patient manifested transtentorial herniation caused by a pressure gradient between the supratentorial and lumbar cistern compartments brought on by the continuous removal of CSF from the lumbar subarachnoid space. We suggest that ventricular drainage should be considered for these cases rather than lumbar drainage. This offers the same advantage of removing the CSF and maintaining low-to-normal intracranial pressure without the risk of transtentorial herniation. 
Ridogrel in the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. The safety of the combination of heparin and ridogrel therapy and its antiplatelet efficacy was examined in the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). In 32 patients without known aspirin intake for 10 days before PTCA, therapy with ridogrel (300-mg intravenous bolus) was begun just before PTCA and continued orally at a dose of 300 mg twice daily until discharge. Heparin was administered as a 10,000 IU bolus dose before PTCA and followed by an intravenous infusion at a rate of 1,000 IU/hour for 24 hours. Bleeding problems at the arterial entry site occurred in 13 patients, which required a blood transfusion in only 2 patients. One patient underwent emergency bypass surgery without specific problems of hemostasis. Ridogrel virtually eliminated thromboxane B2 from the serum (29,990 +/- 6,555 pg/0.1 ml before vs 63 +/- 7 pg/0.1 ml at 2 hours after ridogrel), with a concomitant increase in serum 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (511 +/- 34 pg/0.1 ml before vs 1,190 +/- 146 pg/0.1 ml at 24 hours after ridogrel). There were no acute reocclusions in the ridogrel-treated patients, whereas acute reocclusions occurred in 5.6% of the patients taking the standard aspirin + heparin regimen during the same period. Furthermore, at 6-month clinical follow-up patients treated with ridogrel compared favorably with those receiving standard treatment. 
A longitudinal investigation of the factor structure of subjective well-being: the case of the Philadelphia Geriatric Center Morale Scale. The purpose of this research was twofold: (a) to replicate the hierarchical factor structure of well-being with rural data; and (b) to investigate the longitudinal invariance of this factor structure. Subjective well-being was hypothesized to have a hierarchical factor structure with a second order factor, well-being, explaining variance in first order dimensions labeled agitation, lonely dissatisfaction, and attitude toward one's aging. The latent constructs were measured by items composing the PGC Scale (Lawton, 1975). Maximum likelihood confirmatory factor analysis techniques were used to test the fit of the model. Subjective well-being was investigated using a panel of older rural adults surviving a ten-year, two-wave investigation. Results of the study provided support for the hierarchical factor structure of well-being in cross-sectional analyses. This factor structure was varied across time, however. 
Implications of self-reported cognitive and motor dysfunction in HIV-positive patients. OBJECTIVE: The authors examined HIV-positive subjects to determine the relationship of patient complaints of cognitive and motor dysfunction to psychiatric status and performance on established cognitive and motor function tests. METHOD: HIV-positive volunteers (N = 77) were evaluated at entry into a longitudinal neurological study. Forty were asymptomatic, 29 had AIDS-related complex, and eight had AIDS. The subjects were not selected for the presence or absence of cognitive or motor complaints. Complaints of cognitive and motor dysfunction were assessed with items from the AIDS Clinical Trials Group Macro Neurologic Exam. Current depression and anxiety were assessed with the Profile of Mood States. Psychiatric status was assessed with the NIMH Diagnostic Interview Schedule, a structured interview that provides DSM-III psychiatric diagnoses. Actual cognitive and motor performance was measured with standard neuropsychological tests known to be sensitive to the effects of HIV. RESULTS: Cognitive complaints were found in 38 (49%) of the subjects. These complaints were associated with psychiatric symptoms but not with cognitive performance. Motor complaints, found in 12 (16%) of the subjects, were associated with poorer motor performance but not with psychiatric symptoms. The overall frequency of psychiatric diagnosis was high. CONCLUSIONS: Self-reports of cognitive and motor dysfunction were common in this unselected group and are of concern to health care providers. Potentially treatable psychiatric conditions were also common, particularly in subjects with cognitive complaints, and appropriate treatment referrals are indicated. Patients who report motor dysfunction should be neurologically evaluated for treatable causes. 
Standards for selected anthropometric measurements in Prader-Willi syndrome. We report standards (95th, 50th, and 5th centiles) in Prader-Willi syndrome for weight, height, sitting height, head circumference, head length, head breadth, hand length, middle finger length, palm length, hand breadth, foot length, foot breadth, triceps skinfold, and subscapular skinfold. For comparison with Prader-Willi syndrome standardized curves, normal control data from the literature were plotted similarly and standard curves were produced. We encourage the use of these standards with the examination of patients who have Prader-Willi syndrome and in the comparison of the patient who has Prader-Willi syndrome with other similarly affected individuals. The standards may also be useful for assisting in the diagnosis of Prader-Willi syndrome, particularly in younger individuals. 
Differential response of malignant human B-cells to anti-IgM immunoglobulin (anti-mu) and B-cell growth factor: unique direct cytotoxicity of anti-mu on prolymphocytic leukemia cells. We examined in vitro tritiated thymidine uptake by B cells from seven prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL), seven chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and four plasma cell leukemia (PCL) patients in response to culture with anti-human IgM antibody (anti-mu) and B-cell growth factor (BCGF). In contrast to the stimulatory effect observed in normal B-cell cultures, the divalent F(ab')2 anti-mu antibody uniquely inhibited the autonomous proliferation and induced marked cytotoxicity in six of seven PLL cell cultures independent of complement or Fc-receptor-mediated mechanisms. There was neither stimulation or inhibition of the slgM+ CLL or the slgM- PCL cells. The inhibitory effect on the PLL cells was observed at an anti-mu concentration below the stimulatory threshold for normal B cells. Significant impairment of trypan blue exclusion was delayed until 48 hours, with morphological cellular changes suggestive of a programmed cell death mechanism or apoptosis. The cytotoxicity was independent of the slgM-staining intensity or the autonomous and BCGF-augmented DNA synthetic activity of the PLL cells and was similar in patients with de novo PLL or with prolymphocytic transformation of CLL. Cells from a PLL patient were separated by elutriation into two fractions, a BCGF-unresponsive large "transformed" cell fraction with marked autonomous DNA synthesis and a smaller lymphoid cell subset with low 3H-thymidine uptake that could be augmented by BCGF. Both fractions were equally susceptible to the cytotoxic effect of anti-mu. These data suggest that certain slgM-bearing malignant B cells are susceptible to anti-mu-triggered cytotoxicity. They may represent the malignant counterpart of a "tolerogenic" normal B-cell subset, and the unique direct cytotoxicity of anti-mu may provide a therapeutic strategy specifically for PLL. 
Endoscopic contact Nd:YAG laser resectional vaporization (ECLRV) and esophageal dilatation (ED) in advanced malignant obstruction of the esophagus. Malignant esophageal obstruction in patients with advanced and metastatic carcinoma is unsuitable for surgery. Palliative treatment must provide adequate swallowing with minimum complications in these often seriously ill patients. Twenty consecutive patients underwent endoscopic Nd:YAG contact laser resection and vaporization (ECLRV) and esophageal dilatation (ED) for advanced esophageal carcinoma since August, 1985. Average duration of the disease when first referred was 7.2 months. Tumor cell type was either squamous cell carcinoma (n = 11) or adenocarcinoma (n = 9). Tumor location was distal (n = 14), middle (n = 5), or upper (n = 2). Mean tumor length was 7.5 cm. Mean preoperative luminal diameter was 1 mm, with total obstruction in ten (50%) patients. The operative procedure in all patients was under general anesthesia with endotracheal tube intubation. Rigid and flexible endoscopes were both used as indicated. Mean postoperative luminal diameter was 15 mm. All but four were able to swallow fluids on the first postoperative day, followed by semisolids the next day without discomfort. Minor perforation was noted in three cases and managed in two conservatively. One more patient had difficulty in swallowing due to extra-esophageal compression, in spite of a technically successful laser therapy. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) was carried out in eight cases. Eleven patients were retreated successfully for recurrent obstruction and two were treated more than twice, at a mean of six-week intervals. Endoscopic contact laser resectional vaporization with esophageal dilatation was relatively safe and provided an improved quality of life in this preliminary study group, providing a mean survival of 18.5 weeks (range 2-50 weeks). 
Primary intrasellar coccidioidomycosis simulating a pituitary adenoma. The case of a 68-year-old woman who had relatively acute, unilateral ophthalmoplegia is reported. Radiological studies indicated a mass lesion involving the pituitary gland and left cavernous sinus. Pathological tissue obtained by the transsphenoidal approach revealed the presence of a Coccidioides granuloma. This pathological entity should be considered when evaluating patients with a pituitary mass and ophthalmoplegia. 
Mediastinal involvement by alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma: evaluation with computerized tomography. We have reported a case of alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma with mediastinal involvement occurring in a 15-year-old boy. Computerized tomography revealed an anterior mediastinal mass with internal mammary nodal involvement, which had metastasized from a tumor of the abdominal wall musculature. When making the differential diagnosis of a mediastinal mass with concurrent distant soft tissue and muscle involvement in an adolescent, rhabdomyosarcoma should be considered. 
Clomipramine for obsessive-compulsive disorder. Obsessive-compulsive disorder affects about 2 percent of the U.S. population and can be quite disabling. Clomipramine is the only drug approved for the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder. Its efficacy is unique among tricyclic antidepressants and may be related to its relatively high potency in affecting serotonergic neurotransmission. The drug has many anticholinergic effects, but it is relatively well tolerated by the patients for whom it is effective. A 0.4 percent incidence of seizures, a potentially serious side effect, has been observed. Other antidepressants that are relatively selective for serotonergic (as opposed to noradrenergic) transmission may be as effective as clomipramine in the treatment of this disorder; controlled studies are under way. Clomipramine at low doses is also effective in the treatment of panic disorder and has been used successfully in the treatment of premature ejaculation. 
Concurrent double balloon valvotomy for combined rheumatic mitral and tricuspid stenosis. We expanded the application of percutaneous balloon valvotomy (PBV) to 4 adults (age 14 to 30 years, average 22.2 years) with combined rheumatic mitral and tricuspid stenosis. Double balloon dilatation reduced the transmitral gradient from 17.36 +/- 3.54 to 5.52 +/- 0.89 (P less than 0.025) and transtricuspid gradient from 12.65 +/- 2.67 to 3.67 +/- 0.95 (P less than 0.025). Mitral and tricuspid valve area increased from 0.73 +/- 0.20 to 2.57 +/- 0.67 (P less than 0.005) and from 0.77 +/- 0.24 to 2.67 +/- 0.24 cm2 (P less than 0.005), respectively. The procedures were well tolerated, with no significant increase in valvular regurgitation or left to right shunt across the atrial septum. The excellent symptomatic and haemodynamic benefits are sustained at 3-24 months follow-up. It is concluded that combined dilatation of stenotic valves by double balloon technique can emerge as an alternative to surgery in selected patients with polyvalvar rheumatic heart disease. 
Detecting arrhythmia by exercise electrocardiography in pediatric patients: assessment of sensitivity and influence on clinical management. We studied 49 patients with suspected arrhythmias (group 1) and 92 patients with previously documented arrhythmias (group 2) who underwent exercise electrocardiography (EECG) at our institution between 1979 and 1987. Among group 1 patients, all of whom had sinus rhythm before exercise, 10 (20%) had abnormal findings on EECG, and treatment was modified in 4 of these 10 (8% of group 1). Further testing (24-hour ambulatory or transtelephonic electrocardiographic monitoring or electrophysiologic study) of the 39 patients with normal EECG findings revealed 8 additional patients with arrhythmias. In group 1, the sensitivity of EECG was 56%, and its negative predictive value was 79%. Group 2 consisted of 38 patients with atrial arrhythmias, 31 with ventricular arrhythmias, and 23 with atrioventricular conduction abnormalities before EECG. Of these 92 patients, 68 (74%) had abnormal EECG findings. All but 1 of the 24 patients with normal findings underwent further testing, and rhythm abnormalities were induced in 16. Patients with atrial arrhythmias were more likely to have normal EECG results (42%) than were those with ventricular arrhythmias (23%) or an atrioventricular conduction abnormality (4%). Of the 35 patients who had been referred for suppression of an arrhythmia, 25 (71%) had abnormal rhythm suppressed during exercise. Clinical management was modified in 27% of group 2 patients on the basis of EECG findings. 
Parathyroid adenoma manifested as pancreatitis and polyuria. Although the data used to explain a relationship between hyperparathyroidism and pancreatitis remain incomplete, there does appear to be a relationship between the two. We believe our patient's clinical course strongly supports this. 
Postexercise hypotension is not sustained in normal and hypertensive humans. Blood pressure falls after a single session of exercise. The duration for which this fall in blood pressure persists is not known. Sustained hypotension after a single session of exercise may have important implications in the treatment of patients with mild hypertension. We studied 24 subjects (12 normotensive subjects and 12 patients with mild or borderline hypertension). Blood pressure was measured in the laboratory for 30 minutes before and for an hour after graded bicycle exercise to maximal voluntary capacity. Subjects then left the hospital and measured their blood pressures at home (three measurements every 2 hours) following a strict measurement protocol for the rest of the day (usually between 8 and 12 hours). These home blood pressure measurements were compared with home blood pressure measurements recorded at the same times on a nonexercise control day. At 30 minutes after the graded maximal exercise test, the hypertensive patients experienced a fall in blood pressure from 142 +/- 3.5/93 +/- 6.5 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM) to 124 +/- 4.5/79 +/- 2.8 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). For the normotensive subjects, blood pressure after exercise fell from 117 +/- 3.1/70 +/- 2.1 mm Hg to 109 +/- 3.1/62 +/- 2.8 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). Despite these striking blood pressure reductions for the second half hour after exercise, blood pressure measurements recorded at home were not significantly different on the exercise and control days in either group. We conclude that although a single bout of exercise lowers blood pressure for a short (1-hour) period, this hypotension is not sustained. 
Residual functional deficit after partial fibulectomy for bone graft. The residual functional deficit caused by partial fibulectomy for bone graft was documented with subjective assessment and clinical and instrumented examination in ten patients. The donor leg often remained mildly symptomatic. Residual weakness occurred when the middle one third of the fibula was excised. However, mild discomfort, residual weakness, and laxity were not considered significant enough to discourage transplantation of large segments of the fibula. Postoperative therapy should emphasize muscular strength to minimize the functional deficit. 
Case-control study of screening for prostatic cancer by digital rectal examinations. Although commonly thought to be an effective method of screening for prostatic cancer, digital rectal examinations have yet to be shown by controlled study to help prevent advanced forms of this disease. 139 men with metastatic (stage D) prostatic cancer (cases) were compared with an equal number of matched men free of this condition (controls), with respect to rectal examinations recorded in the medical records up to, on average, 23 years before the cases' initial diagnosis of prostatic cancer. Cases and controls were members of a large health maintenance organisation in northern California. In the 10 years before initial diagnosis (excluding the last three months) the average number of examinations for routine screening (2.45 vs 2.52) or to evaluate intestinal or rectal symptoms (0.44 in both) were similar in cases and controls, respectively. After adjustment for racial differences, the relative risk of metastatic prostatic cancer for men with one or more screening rectal examinations compared with men with none was 0.9 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.5-1.7. Screening by routine digital rectal examination appears to have little if any effect in preventing metastatic prostatic cancer. If there is a small benefit, it will be difficult to demonstrate by conventional epidemiological study. 
Measuring physical activity with a single question. Using 1,004 subjects enrolled in a worksite health promotion program, this report evaluated the validity of a single question about participation in regular exercise. Measured at baseline, this one question had a significant age-adjusted association with body mass index (p less than 0.0001 in women and p = 0.001 in men), HDL cholesterol (p less than 0.0001 in women), and oxygen capacity (p = 0.0007 in women and p = 0.002 in men). Thus, one self-reported question can provide useful information about who is and who is not participating in regular exercise. The potential validity of a single exercise question is particularly relevant in complex epidemiologic studies where lengthy questionnaires highlight the importance of brief instruments. 
Endoscopic removal of gastric lipoma: diagnostic value of endoscopic ultrasonography. A 47-yr-old male with gastric lipoma is presented. X-ray and endoscopic examinations revealed a submucosal tumor on the posterior wall of the gastric antrum. Endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated the hyperechoic mass in the submucosa without continuity to the muscularis propria, by which the lesion was diagnosed as lipoma. The lesion was successfully removed by endoscopic polypectomy without complications. The cross-sections of the removed specimens were quite consistent with the ultrasonographic findings. Endoscopic ultrasonography is valuable in assessing the exact extent of the tumor and in determining whether or not endoscopic polypectomy is called for. 
Characterization of Bay U 3405, a novel thromboxane A2/endoperoxide receptor antagonist. The thromboxane A2-receptor antagonistic properties of Bay U 3405 [(3R)-3-(4-fluorophenylsulfonamido)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-9-carbaz o-lepropanoic acid] have been evaluated in various pharmacologic models. Bay U 3405 specifically inhibits platelet aggregation induced by U 46619, collagen, platelet-activating factor, and the second wave of ADP (IC50 0.5, 0.07, 0.3, 0.19 microM) in human plasma. The plasma phase of ADP-induced aggregation is not affected. U 46619-induced platelet aggregation is competitively antagonized (pA2 = 6.3). In humans, ex vivo platelet aggregation is inhibited after oral application of 2 or 50 mg Bay U 3405. Bay U 3405 also specifically and competitively antagonizes U 46619-induced contractions of rabbit aortic rings (pA2 = 7.4). In vivo, Bay U 3405 protects rabbits dose dependently from arachidonic acid or collagen-induced thromboembolism (ED50 1-3 mg/kg p.o). Chronic administration of Bay U 3405 to stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats reduces stroke-related mortality and diminishes the occurrence of cerebral hemorrhages. From these results, we conclude that Bay U 3405 is an orally active, selective, and competitive thromboxane A2-receptor antagonist that may be beneficial in the treatment of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular diseases. 
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of pancreatic duct stones. Chronic calcifying pancreatitis presents a major clinical problem, often requiring extensive surgery. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) offers a new therapeutic option. We applied ESWL after endoscopic sphincterotomy of the pancreatic orifice in eight patients with impacted pancreatic duct stones. An electromagnetic lithotriptor (Siemens Lithostar, Erlangen, FRG) was used. Patients were treated in prone position under fluoroscopic control. A mean of 6,813 shock waves (range 1,500-10,000) was delivered in one or two sessions. Disintegration of stones was achieved in 6/8 patients, initial relief of pain in 7/8 patients, and total clearance of the pancreatic duct in 3/8 patients. One patient had an exacerbation of her pancreatitis one day after ESWL, which resolved rapidly with medical treatment. No other complications were observed. Four of five patients with fragmented stones had no abdominal complaints at follow-up (mean 17 months, range 3-27). Three patients in whom ESWL was not completely successful (two without and one with partial fragmentation) underwent an operation according to Puestow. Two of them still have abdominal complaints after surgery. From these data, we conclude that ESWL of pancreatic duct stones is a promising new alternative for surgery, when endoscopic stone extraction fails. 
Post-traumatic cholesteatoma. Post-traumatic cholesteatoma often presents many years after the original injury. This case occurred 24 years after a head injury which represents the longest recorded interval. A further interesting feature was that the patient presented with an infected skull prosthesis that was inserted at the time of the original injury. 
Primary prevention of sudden cardiovascular death in hypertensive patients. Mortality results from the MAPHY Study. In a randomized primary prevention trial including 3,234 men with mild to moderate uncomplicated hypertension, the effect of the beta-blocker metoprolol or a thiazide diuretic as an initial antihypertensive therapy was compared regarding the risk of sudden cardiovascular death during a follow-up ranging from 2.3 to 10.8 years (median of 4.2 years). Only men aged 40 to 64 years were included in the study. The randomization of patients into the metoprolol (n = 1,609) or diuretic group (n = 1,625) was performed after stratification for age, smoking habits, serum cholesterol, and systolic blood pressure. At baseline the two treatment groups were well matched. Metoprolol was given in a mean dose of 174 mg daily and the mean dose of thiazide diuretic was either 46 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily or 4.4 mg bendroflumethiazide daily. Identical blood pressure control was achieved using the fixed therapeutic schedule. Total and cardiovascular mortality were significantly lower for metoprolol than for diuretics, owing to fewer deaths from coronary heart disease and stroke. Of the cardiovascular deaths, 78% were classified as sudden cardiovascular deaths (occurred within 24 h after the onset of symptoms). There were significantly fewer sudden cardiovascular deaths in the metoprolol group compared to the diuretic group (32 v 45, P = .017). The present results suggest that initial antihypertensive therapy with metoprolol is associated with a lesser incidence of sudden cardiovascular deaths than initial diuretic treatment in uncomplicated hypertension. 
An evaluation of clinical variables in determining the need for pelvic examination in the emergency department. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the ability of multiple clinical variables to predict an increased or decreased probability of pelvic pathology, therefore determining when a pelvic examination is needed. DESIGN: Cross-sectional. SETTING: An urban emergency department. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: 246 female patients presenting with abdominal pain and undergoing pelvic examination. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The patients were divided into two groups. Group 1 consisted of 99 patients without pelvic pathology (40%) and group 2 consisted of 147 patients with pelvic pathology (60%). Pelvic pathology was defined as presence of infective discharge (with confirmation on wet mount/potassium hydroxide smear), presence of adnexal mass and/or tenderness, cervical motion tenderness, uterine enlargement and/or tenderness, blood in the vaginal vault, and culture report positive for Neisseria gonorrhea. The following variables achieved statistical significance (P less than .05) using a logistic regression model: history of vaginal discharge (odds ratio, 2.30 [95% confidence interval, 1.23 to 4.32]); history of dysmenorrhea/menorrhagia (4.35 [1.52 to 12.40]); right upper quadrant pain on physical examination (0.33 [0.13 to 0.85]); and left lower quadrant pain on physical examination or history (1.73 [0.94 to 3.19]). CONCLUSION: History of vaginal discharge, history of dysmenorrhea/menorrhagia, and left lower quadrant pain on physical examination act as risk variables predicting presence of pelvic disease. Right upper quadrant pain on physical examination acts as a protective variable to predict absence of pelvic disease. This information may aid the emergency physician in determining the need for a pelvic examination in women with abdominal pain. 
Screening of diabetic children for coeliac disease with antigliadin antibodies and HLA typing. IgA and IgG antigliadin antibodies were measured in 498 patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and no history of intestinal malabsorption. Thirty patients had abnormal concentrations of antigliadin antibodies; 22 of these had an intestinal biopsy carried out and 16 of the 22 had subtotal villous atrophy suggestive of coeliac disease (prevalence 3.2%). There were no significant differences between patients with coeliac disease and diabetes and diabetic patients with normal IgA antigliadin antibodies in any of the nutritional variables measured, duration of diabetes, and mean insulin requirement. The mean age of onset of diabetes and attainment of expected height for age were both significantly lower in the patients with both diseases. Typing HLA classes I and II was done in 242 patients. The incidence of HLA-B8, DR3, and DQW2, which are commonly associated with both the diseases, is increased when both are present. 
Acute diverticulitis. A complicated problem in the immunocompromised patient. We reviewed the records of 209 patients with acute diverticulitis treated from 1984 through 1989 to determine if immunocompromised patients have a worse prognosis than nonimmunocompromised patients. Forty immunocompromised patients and 169 nonimmunocompromised patients with acute diverticulitis were identified. Free perforation into the peritoneal cavity occurred in 43% (17/40) of immunocompromised patients and 14% (24/169) of nonimmunocompromised patients. Operations were performed in 58% (23/40) of immunocompromised patients and 33% (55/169) of nonimmunocompromised patients. Postoperative morbidity was 65% (15/23) in immunocompromised patients and 24% (13/55) in nonimmunocompromised patients; postoperative mortality was 39% (9/23) and 2% (1/55), respectively. We conclude that acute diverticulitis in the immunocompromised patient is a complicated problem; there is a greater risk of free perforation and need for surgery than in the nonimmunocompromised patient. Furthermore, the prognosis for immunocompromised patients who undergo surgery is worse than that for nonimmunocompromised patients. 
Does the addition of methylene blue to the sclerosant improve the accuracy of injections during variceal sclerotherapy? We evaluated the possibility that the addition of methylene blue to the sclerosant would improve the accuracy of intravariceal injections during endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. Four patients had eight sessions of endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy with a sclerosant containing a combination of 3% sodium tetradecyl and 60% renograffin. For four sessions, 1 ml of methylene blue was added to 9 ml of sclerosant. The endoscopist judged each injection to be intravariceal or paravariceal. This was confirmed by fluoroscopy. There were 57 injections (28 with methylene blue, 29 without) in the eight sclerotherapy sessions. Intravariceal injections were confirmed fluoroscopically in 64.9% of injections (60.7% with methylene blue 69% without). The endoscopist correctly assessed intravariceal versus paravariceal injections 66.7% of the time (71.4% with methylene blue, 62% without). None of the differences approached statistical significance. The addition of methylene blue to the sclerosant does not improve the accuracy of intravariceal injections or the endoscopist's ability to recognize paravariceal injections during sclerotherapy of esophageal varices. 
Propranolol therapy alters estimation of potential cardiovascular risk derived from submaximal postinfarction exercise testing. We studied the effect of propranolol administration on risk assessment based on submaximal exercise testing performed early after myocardial infarction. A total of 70 patients with recent infarction underwent modified Bruce treadmill testing with simultaneous measurement of expired gases in the absence of antianginal agents including beta-antagonists. Among these, 31 patients who had at least one of the following abnormalities--ST depression greater than or equal to 1 mm (22 patients), chest pain (four patients), or treadmill time less than 360 seconds (12 patients)--were studied in a randomized double-blind fashion and received either placebo or 240 mg of propranolol/day. A total of 28 patients completed the randomized phase and were able to undergo repeat exercise testing an average of 3.4 +/- 1.8 days later. Randomized groups were equivalent at baseline except for a higher peak oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production (p less than 0.05) in the propranolol compared with the placebo group; these differences were taken into account in statistical analyses of the study data. Resting heart rate (59 +/- 1.2 versus 82 +/- 4.2 beats/min) and peak heart rate x systolic blood pressure (14,208 +/- 496 versus 20,075 +/- 1,062) were both significantly less (p less than 0.01) after propranolol than after placebo. Eight of nine patients treated with placebo maintained ST depression greater than or equal to 1 mm from the initial to the randomized exercise test, compared with only 4 of 13 receiving propranolol (p less than 0.01). In those with continued ST depression, time to positivity was significantly longer in those receiving propranolol compared with those taking placebo (538 +/- 73 versus 318 +/- 44 seconds, p less than 0.05). In contrast, the peak ratio between carbon dioxide production and oxygen consumption was higher in those receiving propranolol compared with those receiving placebo (0.93 +/- 0.04 versus 0.81 +/- 0.03, p less than 0.05). We conclude that propranolol therapy reduces evidence of ischemia and changes traditional estimates of potential cardiac risk derived from submaximal postinfarction exercise testing. 
Modifications of thermoregulation in patients with suprasellar pituitary adenomas. Thermoregulation was investigated pre and postoperatively in 5 and only preoperatively in 7 patients with suprasellar pituitary adenomas by exposing them to external cold and heat in a climatic chamber. Five healthy subjects served as controls. Body core and skin temperatures, oxygen consumption, electromyographic activity, skin blood flow and local sweating rates were continuously measured. Threshold temperatures for activation of heat production and heat loss were calculated from these data. Hormone analysis was performed before and after stimulation with releasing factors. In the patients, core temperatures as well as threshold temperatures for heat production and heat loss were elevated by about 0.5 degrees C as compared with controls. This elevation of core and threshold temperatures was achieved, despite a reduced resting metabolic rate, by a reduction of skin blood flow indicated by a low mean skin temperature. After successful operation the thermoregulatory alterations normalized. Serum levels of growth hormone were reduced preoperatively and stimulation by GHRF did not cause an appropriate increase. Prolactin was elevated in 6 patients with prolactinomas, but there was no correlation with changes in thermoregulatory threshold temperatures. Stimulation of the other hypophyseal hormones by the combined anterior pituitary function test revealed a normal hormonal response. Apart from prolactin there were no significant hormonal changes postoperatively. It is concluded that disturbances of temperature regulation are present in patients with suprasellar adenomas, but that they are not detectable by routine clinical methods. These alterations probably depend on a disturbance of hypothalamic function and are reversible by surgery. 
Spinal cord trauma in man: studies of phosphorylated neurofilament and ubiquitin expression. Changes in neuronal proteins are a major feature of the neurodegenerative disorders, but the biological significance of these changes is not understood. We describe alterations in neuronal proteins as a result of surgical tractotomy on the human spinal cord at 3, 5, 7, 14 and 72 days after operation. Antibodies to phosphorylated neurofilaments labelled neuronal cell bodies in the nucleus dorsalis and anterior horns. Axonal swellings showed positive staining for ubiquitin, but ubiquitinated neuronal inclusions were not evident. The presence of phosphorylated neurofilaments in the neuronal cell bodies and of ubiquitination of axonal swellings may be indicators of interrupted axonal transport. The changes found in intracellular proteins in neurons after trauma do not resemble those found in motor neuron disease, suggesting that the intraneuronal ubiquitinated inclusions may have a unique significance in the cytopathology of that disorder. 
ATP-regulated K+ channels protect the myocardium against ischemia/reperfusion damage. The role of ATP-regulated K+ channels in protecting the myocardium against ischemia/reperfusion damage was explored using glibenclamide and pinacidil to block and activate the channels, respectively. Electrical and mechanical activity of arterially perfused guinea pig right ventricular walls was recorded simultaneously via an intracellular microelectrode and a force transducer. The preparations were subjected to either 1) 20 minutes of no-flow ischemia with or without glibenclamide (1 and 10 microM) followed by reperfusion, or 2) 30 minutes of no-flow ischemia with or without pinacidil (1 and 10 microM) followed by reperfusion. No-flow ischemia for 20 minutes produced changes in electrical and mechanical activity that were completely reversed on reperfusion; resting membrane potential declined by 13 +/- 1.2 mV, action potential duration at 90% repolarization (APD90) decreased by 62%, and developed tension fell by greater than 95%, but resting tension did not change significantly. Glibenclamide (10 microM) had no effect on activity during normal perfusion, but during ischemia, resting membrane potential fell slightly further (17 +/- 1.8 mV) and APD90 declined by only 24%. Developed tension declined more slowly and to a lesser extent, but resting tension rose significantly between 10 and 20 minutes of ischemia. Reperfusion of glibenclamide-treated tissues elicited arrhythmias (extrasystoles and tachycardia), and the preparations failed to recover mechanical function. Glibenclamide at 1 microM produced qualitatively similar effects, albeit less severe. After 30 minutes of no-flow ischemia in untreated tissues, resting tension increased by approximately 130% during the no-flow period. Reperfusion caused arrhythmias (extrasystoles, tachyarrhythmias, and fibrillation) and failed to restore resting or developed tension to preischemic levels. Pinacidil at 1 microM did not affect electrical or contractile function, but at 10 microM it had a negative inotropic effect, decreasing APD90 and developed tension by 5% and 18%, respectively. Both concentrations of the drug caused a faster and greater decline in APD90 during the no-flow period. Resting tension did not change during 30 minutes of no-flow ischemia in the presence of pinacidil, and reperfusion led to 85% and complete recovery of electrical and mechanical activity at 1 and 10 microM, respectively. The data indicate that glibenclamide enhances whereas pinacidil reduces myocardial damage caused by ischemia/reperfusion. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that activation of ATP-regulated K+ channels during ischemia is an important adaptive mechanism for protecting the myocardium when blood flow to the tissue is compromised. 
Islet amyloid polypeptide in proliferating pancreatic B cells during development, hyperplasia, and neoplasia in humans and mice. The occurrence of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) immunoreactivity was investigated in fetal pancreas, islet cell hyperplasia, and tumors in humans and mice. Transgenic mice heritably developing endocrine tumors of the pancreas (AVP/SV40, Rip 1 Tag2/Rip2PyST1 and Glu2-Tag strains) were used as murine models of islet cells proliferative disease. In the mouse, IAPP immunoreactivity was found in B cells at embryonic day 12 (E12), paralleling the onset of insulin immunoreactivity. In hyperplastic/dysplastic islets and in B-cell tumors of transgenic mice (n = 16), IAPP immunoreactivity was localized consistently to insulin-immunoreactive cells. Ultrastructural single- and double-immunogold labeling of transgenic mice B-cell tumors (n = 3) showed insulin and IAPP to be colocalized in beta granules. In human fetuses, IAPP immunoreactivity was found in insulin-immunoreactive B cells, but at a later gestational age than the onset of insulin immunoreactivity. In pancreatic specimens of infantile/neonatal persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia (11 cases) and in pancreatic endocrine tumors (21 cases, 10 of which were functioning insulinomas), IAPP immunoreactivity was found consistently in insulin-immunoreactive B cells. Congo-red-positive amyloid deposits present in tumors also were IAPP immunoreactive. Ultrastructural single and double immunogold labeling of infantile/neonatal persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia cases (n = 3) and functioning insulinomas (n = 2) showed IAPP and insulin to be colocalized in beta granules. In addition, IAPP immunoreactivity was observed in amyloidlike fibrils. These findings indicate that IAPP is a constitutive component of B cells. Possible relationships between IAPP and insulin expression and interspecies differences are suggested and discussed. 
Effects of atriopeptidase inhibitor UK 79300 on left ventricular hydraulic load in patients with congestive heart failure. We investigated effects of the first orally active atriopeptidase inhibitor UK 79300 (Pfizer Clinical Research, UK) on left ventricular hydraulic load in patients with congestive heart failure NYHA II and III. In our study, 6 patients received 200 mg and 4 patients received 400 mg of UK 79300, and 4 patients received placebo (controls). Before and 90 min after oral administration of UK 79300 or placebo aortic input impedance was assessed to characterize left ventricular hydraulic load. Plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) significantly increased by 126% after 200 mg and by 141% after 400 mg of UK 79300, but remained unchanged in control patients. Mean arterial pressure and flow, resistive term, characteristic impedance and oscillatory aortic input pressure power showed minor changes without statistical significance on an intergroup comparison. We conclude that acute atriopeptidase inhibition by UK 79300 effectively increases endogenous ANP levels up to 2.5-fold. However, these changes were not accompanied by significant effects on left ventricular hydraulic load. 
Weekly low-dose methotrexate therapy for cutaneous sarcoidosis. Three patients with severe, treatment-resistant cutaneous sarcoidosis were treated with low-dose oral methotrexate on a weekly basis. Facial granulomas and ulcerations responded best. A response was apparent after several weeks of treatment, but 6 to 9 months were required to reach maximal effect. 
Transurethral resection of prostatic abscess under sonographic guidance. Transrectal ultrasound may establish the diagnosis of prostatic abscess in an ambiguous clinical setting. Transurethral resection (deroofing) is the treatment preferred by many clinicians, yet intraoperative complete abscess obliteration may be difficult to confirm endoscopically. We report on a patient with a complex prostatic abscess endoscopically resected under transrectal ultrasound guidance. Adequacy of treatment was proved pathologically. 
Nucleotide deletion resulting in frameshift as a possible cause of complete thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency in six Japanese families. Complete T4-binding globulin deficiency (TBG-CD) is inherited in an X-linked fashion. A nucleotide substitution has been shown to cause this hereditary condition in caucasians of French Canadian origin. Heterogeneity in molecular mechanisms for TBG-CD has also been reported. Genomic DNA from a Japanese male exhibiting TBG-CD was subjected to polymerase chain reaction, and the generated DNA fragments were sequenced. A single nucleotide deletion was found in the first base of the codon for amino acid 352 of the common-type TBG molecule. This mutation causes a frameshift in translation and premature termination. Compared with common-type TBG, the mutated polypeptide results in 1) 22 different amino acids on its carboxy-terminus, 2) a 22-amino acid truncation, and 3) the absence of a potential N-linked glycosylation site. These alterations may lead to profound changes in the secondary and tertiary structures of the molecule. To ascertain the presence of this nucleotide deletion in the genomic DNA of affected subjects, a mutated primer was designed which together with the nucleotide deletion produced a new endonuclease restriction site in the polymerase chain reaction fragment. Results revealed the presence of the mutation in genomic DNA of the subject, and his mother was shown to have both mutant and normal alleles. The same mutation was also detected in five other unrelated families carrying TBG-CD. This mutation may be frequent in Japanese subjects with TBG-CD. 
Spectrum of intestinal failure in a specialised unit. 300 consecutive admissions over 7 years to a purpose-built intestinal failure unit are reviewed. The commonest underlying condition was Crohn's disease (42%), and the commonest complication precipitating admission was intestinal fistula (42%). Total parenteral nutrition was used in 85% and surgery in 50%. A multidisciplinary approach to management gave a high success rate--90% of patients were discharged from hospital, although nearly 25% needed home parental nutrition. These results suggest that chronic intestinal failure should be managed in specialised units in the same manner as other types of organ failure. 
Efficacy of ketanserin in the therapy of Raynaud's phenomenon: thermometric data. After a two-week washout (WO) period with placebo 1 capsule/bid, 12 patients suffering from stable Raynaud's phenomenon were treated with ketanserin (K) 40 mg/bid for fifteen days. Blood pressure, heart rate, and laboratory parameters were evaluated at the end of each period. Patients used diary cards to record the number, duration, and intensity of attacks. Computerized thermometry of the fingers was evaluated at basal temperature after acclimatization, 23 degrees C for thirty minutes; after cold test, 10 degrees C for five minutes; and after thermal recovery, 23 degrees C for eighteen minutes. Results were analyzed statistically by use of Student's t-test for paired data (p less than 0.05). No marked changes were observed in the symptoms of the attacks, but K proved effective in significantly reducing the number and duration of daily attacks and in promoting their spontaneous regression. Thermometry revealed a parallel increase in temperatures, particularly basal and recovery values. The data suggest increased flow and decreased vasospasm following 5-HT2 receptor blockade. 
Chronic periaortitis presenting as common bile duct obstruction. The case of a 67 year old woman is reported who presented with cholestatic jaundice and was found to have, in addition, an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Only at necropsy did histopathology show chronic periaortitis as the aetiology of a pancreatic head mass which, during life, mimicked a pancreatic neoplasm obstructing the bile and pancreatic ducts. 
Synchronous hippocampal bursting reveals network excitability defects in an epilepsy gene mutation. A mutation at the tottering locus (tg, recessive, on chromosome 8) stimulates noradrenergic locus coeruleus axon terminal outgrowth and predisposes the brain to generalized spike-wave epilepsy in the young mouse. In an isolated synaptic circuit studied in vitro, the hyperinnervated mutant hippocampal pyramidal neurons respond normally when individually activated; however, latent neuronal signaling defects emerge during synchronous network bursting, revealing two conditional excitability phenotypes: a voltage-dependent prolongation of a complex synaptic response, the paroxysmal depolarizing shift, and a beta-adrenoreceptor-linked attenuation of the afterhyperpolarization. In this target brain region, the tg locus transforms neuronal excitability without altering measured intrinsic membrane properties, indicating that gene control of inherited epileptic traits may be mediated in part by activity-dependent modulation of network behavior favoring synchronous neuronal firing. 
The coronary artery response to implantation of a balloon-expandable flexible stent in the aspirin- and non-aspirin-treated swine model. Intracoronary stents may potentially alleviate some of the problems associated with coronary angioplasty. Since the anatomy and physiology of swine coronary arteries closely resemble those of humans, the response to implantation of the Glanturco-Roubin, balloon-expandable, flexible stent was studied in this model. Additionally, the effect of aspirin, 1 mg/kg/day orally, on this response was evaluated. Eighteen Hanford minature swine underwent stenting of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Two died within 24 hours of stent implantation. The 16 survivors were put to death at 4 (n = 4), 11 (n = 4), 28 (n = 4), 56 (n = 3), and 180 (n = 1) days. Angiographically, reduction of stent lumen diameter of 0.1 to 1.3 mm was observed and was maximum at 11 days, with gradual improvement at subsequent time periods. Scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and light microscopy showed early disruption of subjacent endothelium, and adherence of platelets to exposed subendothelium and stent wires. Microthrombi were readily apparent. At 11 days, intimal thickening, made up predominantly of smooth muscle cells with abundant extracellular matrix, was observed and covered the stent wires. At 28 days, regression of intimal thickening was apparent and a confluent endothelium with flow-directed orientation was seen. At 56 and 180 days, the luminal surface was smooth; intimal thickening averaged 525 microns over the stent wires and 55 microns away from the wires. Findings in aspirin-treated animals were similar to results in those that did not receive aspirin. Thus in this swine model, stent implantation results in a time-dependent and self-limited vascular response. 
Eccrine acrospiroma (clear cell hidradenoma) of the eyelid. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features. A 46-year-old man underwent excision of a left lower eyelid mass that had enlarged over a 2-month period. Pathologic examination showed the mass to be an eccrine acrospiroma, a benign adnexal tumor that rarely arises in the eyelid. Light microscopic and ultrastructural examination showed two types of cells to comprise the tumor: eosinophilic cells with intracytoplasmic tonofilaments, and clear cells with intracytoplasmic glycogen granules. Immunohistochemical stains were positive for cytokeratins AE 1,3, epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, and muscle specific actin in tumor cells. 
Diuretic agents versus beta-blockers. Comparison of effects on mortality, stroke, and coronary events. Three recently concluded large randomized clinical trials have compared the preventive effects of diuretic agents and beta-blockers in the treatment of approximately 22,000 subjects with hypertension. In the Medical Research Council trial, bendrofluazide (10 mg daily) was compared with a dose of propranolol (as much as 240 mg daily), a nonselective beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Two selective beta-blockers, atenolol (100 mg daily) and metoprolol (200 mg daily), were compared with bendrofluazide (5-10 mg daily) and hydrochlorothiazide (50-100 mg daily) in the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension trial. In the International Prospective Primary Prevention Study in Hypertension, 160 mg of slow-release oxprenolol, a beta-blocker with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, was compared with a diuretic-based regimen not containing beta-blockers. In each trial, similar reductions in mean diastolic blood pressure were achieved with diuretic and beta-blocker treatment that lasted for several years. All-cause mortality and fatal and nonfatal stroke and coronary event rates were also similar in the treatment groups. Thus, it appears that beta-blockers are as effective as diuretic agents in improving survival and in preventing major morbid events. Regarding cigarette smoking and stroke incidence, observations based on post hoc subgroup analyses of the Medical Research Council trial were not supported by subgroup findings in the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension and the International Prospective Primary Prevention Study in Hypertension trials, and these observations should not form the basis for any treatment recommendations. 
The paradox of 'chronic unstable angina' secondary to an organizing intracoronary thrombus [published erratum appears in South Med J 1991 Sep;84(9):1074, 1160] We have described a case in which coronary vasospasm and the resultant endothelial shear stresses most likely caused plaque rupture and transient coronary occlusion at the site of a minor atherosclerotic narrowing. Remodeling then led to a long, complex stenotic lesion that included ruptured and dissected endothelium and organized thrombus. This led to severe anginal symptoms over a 3-month period, or the paradox of "chronic unstable angina." Angioplasty was difficult but eventually successful after pulsed high-pressure balloon inflations and intracoronary thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase. This case demonstrates that the clinical course of a patient with minor or insignificant coronary disease may be a dynamic process that cannot be entirely predicted even by recent invasive cardiac studies. 
Altered excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptor binding in hippocampus of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. We examined binding to excitatory amino acid and inhibitory amino acid receptors in frozen hippocampal sections prepared from surgical specimens resected from 8 individuals with medically refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. The excitatory receptors studied included N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), strychnine-insensitive glycine, phencyclidine, and quisqualate. The inhibitory receptors studied were gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) and benzodiazepine. Excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptor binding were differentially altered in the patients with temporal lobe epilepsy in comparison to 8 age-comparable autopsy control subjects, and changes in receptor binding were regionally selective in four areas. Binding to phencyclidine receptors associated with the NMDA channel was reduced by 35 to 70% in all regions in the hippocampi of the patients. In contrast, binding to the NMDA recognition site and its associated glycine modulatory site was elevated by 20 to 110% in the cornu ammonis (CA) 1 area and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of the patients. Binding to these sites was unaffected in area CA4. Binding to the quisqualate-type excitatory amino acid receptor was unchanged in all regions except the stratum lacunosum moleculare CA1, where it was increased by 63%. GABAA and benzodiazepine receptor binding was reduced by 20 to 60% in CA1 and CA4, but unchanged in dentate gyrus. The data indicate that excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors are altered in the hippocampus of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. 
Isolation, physicochemical characterization and preclinical efficacy evaluation of soluble scleroglucan. Herein we describe the isolation, physicochemical characterization and preclinical evaluation of a water-soluble biologic response modifier extracted from Sclerotium glucanicum. Alkaline extraction of insoluble S. glucanicum exopolymers produced a soluble scleroglucan composed of a triple-helical beta-1,3-linked glucopyranose backbone with single beta-1,6-linked glucopyranosyl branches every third subunit. Scleroglucan has a weight average molecular mass of 1.56 x 10(6) Da, a weight average root mean square distance from the center of gravity of the molecule to its farthest elements of 51.8 nm, a polydispersity (weight-average molecular mass/number average molecular mass) of 1.83 and intrinsic viscosity of 3.081 dl/g. Scleroglucan (250 mg/kg, intravenously) stimulated in vivo murine macrophage phagocytic activity (66%, P less than .001) and increased in vitro macrophage tumor cytotoxicity against syngeneic tumor targets by 124% (P less than .05). Scleroglucan enhanced (P less than .001) murine bone marrow proliferation in a biphasic manner by up to 328%. Scleroglucan therapy increased survival of mice challenged with syngeneic lymphoma, melanoma or adenocarcinoma. AKR/J mice bearing syngeneic lymphoma (1 x 10(3) cells, intraperitoneally) demonstrated increased (P less than .001) long-term survival (100% vs. 0%, greater than 64 days). C57Bl/6J mice bearing syngeneic melanoma B16 (5 x 10(5) cells, subcutaneously) demonstrated increased long-term survival (64% vs. 0%, P less than .05). C57Bl/6J mice bearing syngeneic adenocarcinoma BW10232 (1 x 10(5) cells, subcutaneously) demonstrated increased (P less than .05) median survival time. In addition, scleroglucan prophylaxis increased resistance of mice to challenge with Staphylococcus aureus, Candida albicans and mouse hepatitis virus A-59. Scleroglucan did not induce toxicity or hepatomegaly. We conclude that: 1) a branched, water-soluble beta-1,3-linked scleroglucan biologic response modifier can be extracted from S. glucanicum; 2) scleroglucan will stimulate immunity, modify experimental neoplastic disease and increase resistance to microbial challenge; and 3) scleroglucan shows promise as an immunopotentiating drug. 
Hypertrophic smooth muscle in the partially obstructed opossum esophagus. Excitability and electrophysiological properties. Partial obstruction of the opossum esophagus leads to thickening of the circular muscle, hypertrophy of smooth muscle cells, and diminution of the extracellular space. The pharmacological and electrophysiological properties of this hypertrophied muscle were studied. Carbachol produced phasic and tonic contractions of the circular muscle. The EC50 for tonic contractions was greater for hypertrophied than for normal muscle (21.1 +/- 3.9 mumol/L vs. 4.8 +/- 2.2 mumol/L; P less than 0.05). The resting membrane potential difference of hypertrophied muscle (-50.8 +/- 0.2 mV) was similar to that of normal muscle (-50.0 +/- 0.2 mV). Electrical stimulation of intrinsic nerves in the normal muscle produced a hyperpolarization followed by a depolarization of smooth muscle membrane potential. Hypertrophied muscle responded either with an attenuated hyperpolarization or no hyperpolarization, both of which were followed by a depolarization. The space constant in the long axes of the hypertrophied circular muscle cells was greater than normal (4.4 +/- 0.2 mm vs. 3.4 +/- 0.1 mm; P less than 0.001). The threshold potential for initiation of action potentials was more negative for hypertrophied (-43.2 +/- 0.4 mV) than for normal circular muscle (-41.6 +/- 0.2 mV; P less than 0.005). These data indicate that alterations in neuromuscular function accompany the hypertrophy of esophageal smooth muscle. 
Socioeconomic status and visual impairment among urban Americans. Baltimore Eye Survey Research Group. The Baltimore Eye Survey is a population-based study of ocular disorders conducted in East Baltimore, Md, designed to determine the prevalence and severity of vision loss and ocular disease and their relationships to socioeconomic and other risk factors. This survey comprised 5300 subjects (2911 whites and 2389 blacks). Visual impairment was associated with age, race, general health status, educational level, income, and employment status. An identified association of race with blindness and visual impairment was reduced, but not eliminated, after adjustment for these socioeconomic factors, indicating that socioeconomic status itself is an important determinant of visual impairment. 
Choledocholithiasis in cirrhotic patients: is endoscopic sphincterotomy the safest choice? Of the 18 endoscopic sphincterotomies performed on 18 cirrhotic patients for choledocholithiasis, a mortality rate of 16.6% was registered. However, this figure can be limited to 6.6% if we take only successful sphincterotomies (15/18, 83.3%) into account. After closely reviewing relevant literature, it would appear that operative mortality in comparable cases is much higher. We therefore recommend that endoscopic sphincterotomy, despite higher mortality rates when compared to the general population, should be the initial choice of management of choledocholithiasis in cirrhotic patients. 
The coexistence of tics and dystonia. We studied nine patients with motor and phonic tics and other features of Tourette's syndrome, who developed persistent dystonia in addition to their tics. All, except one, were males (mean age, 35.8 years; range, 8 to 59 years), and had onset of tics prior to age 18 years (mean age, 9 years; range, 1.5 to 17 years). None of the patients were treated with neuroleptic drugs prior to the onset of dystonia. Torticollis and blepharospasm were the most common forms of dystonia. Seven patients had a history of tics in first degree relatives. While these patients were seen in a specialized movement disorder clinic and may, therefore, represent a population with atypical and more severe symptoms, the high prevalence rate of dystonia (5.0% of all patients with Tourette's syndrome seen in the clinic) suggests that some patients with tics may have an increased risk for dystonia. 
Morbidity and mortality after coronary artery bypass in octogenarians. One hundred fifty seven consecutive octogenarians (mean age +/- standard deviation, 82.4 +/- 1.9 years) underwent coronary artery bypass grafting with hypothermia (mean temperature, 21.8 degrees +/- 1.8 degrees C), hyperkalemic cardioplegia, and cardiopulmonary bypass in a 9-year period. Sixty-six percent were male. Preoperatively, 115 patients (73%) were in New York Heart Association functional class IV, with the remainder being in either class III (23%) or class II (4%). Twenty percent of the patients had major complications including postoperative hemorrhage (15), sepsis (9), cerebrovascular accident (6), third-degree heart block (5), renal failure requiring dialysis (1), and pulmonary embolism (1). The 30-day or in-hospital mortality rate was 7.0%. Mean total hospital stay was 26.1 +/- 17.9 days. One-year and 5-year actuarial survival rates were 85% and 62%, respectively. Higher mortality was seen to be associated with New York Heart Association class IV, left ventricular ejection fraction less than 0.40, and lesser values for cardiac output and cardiac index. At the 6-month postoperative follow-up, 73% of the survivors reported that their general health had improved as compared with before operation. This experience demonstrates that for select octogenarians with unmanageable angina pectoris, coronary artery bypass grafting is an effective therapeutic option. 
Congestive heart failure. New frontiers. Congestive heart failure is a common syndrome with high mortality in its advanced stages. Current therapy includes the use of vasodilator drugs, which have been shown to prolong life. Despite current therapy, mortality remains high in patients with severe heart failure. Potent new inotropic vasodilators have improved ventricular performance but have not prolonged life in patients with end-stage heart failure. Serious arrhythmias are implicated in the sudden deaths of 30% to 40% of patients with severe heart failure, but the benefits of antiarrhythmic therapy have not been established. Upcoming trials will address this question. Ventricular remodeling and progressive dilatation after myocardial infarction commonly lead to congestive heart failure; early unloading of the ventricle with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor may attenuate these events. These findings support the concept that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may be useful in managing heart failure of all degrees of severity, including left ventricular dysfunction and end-stage heart failure. Part of the damage that may occur with acute myocardial infarction, particularly in this era of thrombolysis therapy, is reperfusion injury, which may be mediated by oxygen-derived free radicals. Better knowledge of the mechanisms and treatment of myocardial infarction, the leading cause of congestive heart failure, may help prevent or attenuate the development of this syndrome. 
Appendectomy during pregnancy: a Swedish registry study of 778 cases. Data from three Swedish health care registries--the Medical Birth Registry, the Registry of Congenital Malformations, and the Hospital Discharge Registry--were linked for the 9-year period 1973-1981 to identify women who had appendectomy during pregnancy and their offspring, and to determine several pregnancy outcomes (gestational duration, birth weight, perinatal mortality, and congenital anomalies). Among the 720,000 deliveries during this period, 778 were complicated by appendectomy (one in 936), and the diagnosis of appendicitis was confirmed in 64% of the cases (one in 1440). Significant findings included: 1) an increase in the risk of delivery the week after appendectomy when the operation was performed after 23 weeks' gestation, with no further increase if the pregnancy continued beyond 1 week; 2) a decrease in mean birth weight of 78 +/- 24 g with more infants than expected weighing less than 3000 g; 3) an increase in the number of live-born infants dying within 7 days of birth; 4) no increase in the number of stillborn infants; and 5) no increase in the number of congenitally malformed infants. 
Babesiosis. Diagnostic pitfalls. A case of babesiosis complicated by quinine-induced hemolysis is described. A splenectomized woman contracted babesiosis after visiting an endemic area. The patient presented with high fevers and minimal hemolysis. While she was on treatment, the hemolysis increased. The increased hemolysis was initially attributed to babesiosis, but after additional evaluation quinine therapy was found to be the cause. In the setting of this brisk hemolysis, there was an increase in red blood cell inclusions. At first, the inclusions were thought to be Babesia, but iron stain demonstrated that many of the inclusions were hemolysis-induced Pappenheimer bodies. The role of the clinical laboratory in sorting out this confusing picture is presented. 
The effect of interleukin-1 on adhesion formation in the rat. The potential role of interleukin-1 in postoperative adhesion formation was examined. Cecal abrasion gave a consistently higher adhesion score when compared with sham laparotomy, on the basis of adhesion number, density, and vascularity, and so was chosen for use in further studies. The extent of serosal bleeding during cecal abrasion did not affect adhesion scores. Intraperitoneal injection of 10 micrograms murine recombinant interleukin-1 alpha in cecally abraded animals on the day of surgery and on the following 4 days resulted in a significant increase in adhesion scores when compared with those of cecally abraded animals injected with vehicle alone. Adhesions enhanced with murine recombinant interleukin-1 alpha, which were thicker and more vascular, were equivalently enhanced at doses from 10 to 10,000 ng, implying maximal response over that range. Rats not operated on and receiving recombinant interleukin-1 alpha 2 weeks after injury had increased adhesion formation. These results demonstrate that interleukin-1 alpha may be an important short-term mediator of postsurgical adhesion formation. 
Patterns of failure in Hancock pericardial bioprostheses. A series of Hancock pericardial valve bioprostheses was reviewed for cases of primary valve failure. Thirteen mitral and 10 aortic valve explants were recovered from 21 adult patients. Mitral valves had been in place for a mean of 56.4 months, and aortic valves for 53.8 months. All valves failed with cusp tears from stents (with a mean of 1.7 for mitral valves and 2.6 for aortic valves) in a predictable pattern, suggesting that wear and stress at cusp stitch sites are important in their pathogenesis. The topography of these tears is illustrated as are the less common associates of primary failure, such as calcification, fibrosis, and thrombosis. Similarities and differences of this valve's failure compared with that of the Ionescu-Shiley pericardial valve are discussed. 
Carotid endarterectomy in elderly patients Between 1971 and 1989, 749 carotid endarterectomies were performed at our institution for symptomatic carotid occlusive disease in patients older than 70 years of age. Of these procedures, 693 were done in patients 71 through 80 years of age, and 56 were done in patients between the ages of 81 and 90 years. The neurologic morbidity and perioperative mortality in the former group were 2.9% and 1.4%, respectively, whereas in the latter group the corresponding values were 5.4% and 0%, respectively. For the entire group, the neurologic morbidity was 3.1% and the mortality was 1.3%. Of the 23 new postoperative neurologic deficits, 19 (83%) occurred in high-risk patients with severe preoperative neurologic or medical risks, and 14 (61%) of these deficits were minor. In selected elderly patients with symptomatic hemodynamically significant carotid occlusive disease, endarterectomy seems to be a safe procedure that is associated with acceptably low perioperative morbidity and mortality. 
Cost analysis of microsurgical reconstruction in the head and neck. In a cost-conscious environment, pressure exists to justify the use of expensive techniques such as reconstructive microsurgery in head and neck patients. Therefore, the costs and effectiveness of 39 consecutive free tissue transfers in patients with head and neck defects due to neoplasia (77%), trauma (13%), or congenital causes (10%) were assessed by reviewing clinical and billing records. The technical success rate was 95% with a 29% rate of complications. Most patients returned to preoperative levels of social activities, and none admitted dissatisfaction with their results. Average cost was $27,000 per case with 16 days of hospitalization. Average cost for aerodigestive tract tumors was $37,400 with 21 days of hospitalization. Costs were directly related to the etiology of the defect and incidence of complications. Applying cost-effectiveness principles we believe that these costs are justified by the high level of patient satisfaction and enhanced quality of life. 
Mitral valve replacement six years after cardiac transplantation. A 33-year-old man found to have increasing mitral regurgitation and decreasing exercise tolerance 6 years after cardiac transplantation received a mitral bioprosthesis. For 8 months he has been without complications from the valve replacement and is clinically and hemodynamically considerably improved. 
Cerebral Doppler studies in the fetus and newborn infant. The goal of developing reliable commercial Doppler systems for measuring vessel diameter and velocity changes during the cardiac cycle appears to be near. Reaching this goal would enable us to obtain volume-flow information continuously. In animal experiments, continuous measurements of Doppler velocity, pressure, and flow add important insights into hemodynamic measurements. Incorporating Doppler methods in microcirculatory research could also provide a link between the microcirculatory and the macrocirculatory hemodynamic research. Although Doppler methods have been validated, Doppler findings in clinical research (using commercial systems) must be considered at best to reflect qualitative circulatory alterations indicating directions of change. Because of inherent technologic limitations and considerable intersubject and intrasubject variability, direct extrapolation of the numeric findings from one study to the other can lead to misleading conclusions. The Doppler results are also influenced by measurement conditions and equipment settings. However, Doppler-derived information can be used as an adjunct to clinical management in many of the diseases discussed above. As with any physiologic variable, serial measurements probably are of greater value than single measurements. With continued improvement in technology, Doppler methods hold promise of becoming an important adjunct in cerebral hemodynamic monitoring in perinatal-neonatal intensive care units. 
US-guided transvaginal drainage of pelvic abscesses and fluid collections. Ultrasound (US)-guided transvaginal needle or catheter drainage was performed in 14 women for a variety of pelvic abscesses and fluid collections; tubo-ovarian abscesses and postoperative collections were most common. Diagnosis was achieved in all 14 patients (100%), including one patient with suspected ovarian carcinoma who underwent only diagnostic needle aspiration and no therapeutic drainage. Abscesses or fluid collections were evacuated in 13 of 13 patients (100%) with either needle (n = 7) or catheter (n = 6) drainage (with appropriate antibiotics). Twelve of the 14 patients (86%) were spared an operation; surgery was undertaken in two patients for a persistent tubo-ovarian phlegmon. No major complications were associated with drainage. Catheters were removed an average of 6.7 days after insertion. The success, safety, and advantages of US-guided transvaginal drainage in our early experience suggest its use as an alternative to standard percutaneous catheter procedures to diagnose and drain certain pelvic abscesses and fluid collections. 
Ventricular arrhythmias during treatment with alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator) in suspected acute myocardial infarction. Continuous electrocardiography during the first 24 hours of a stay in a coronary care unit was used to record ventricular arrhythmias during treatment with alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator) or placebo. Recordings were made on 378 of the 436 patients admitted to a double blind trial of alteplase or placebo in one participating centre of the Anglo-Scandinavian study of early thrombosis (ASSET), patients being selected according to the availability of recorders. Of these, 309 (158 given alteplase and 151 placebo) had greater than 5 hours of analysable data. Most of the arrhythmias were recorded in patients with an in hospital diagnosis of myocardial infarction. Ventricular couplets and ventricular tachycardia were significantly more common in the patients treated with alteplase. Further, in patients with myocardial infarction who had ventricular extrasystoles, couplets, or ventricular tachycardia type a, the number of hours in which each arrhythmia was recorded was significantly higher in the alteplase group. The various ventricular arrhythmias in the alteplase group tended to cluster in the first 4-12 hours of the recordings. During the first 24 hours admission there were four episodes of ventricular fibrillation in the alteplase group and five in the placebo group of taped patients. By one month there had been 18 deaths in these 309 patients (alteplase four, placebo 14). These bore no relation to any recorded arrhythmia. Clinical records for the patients with no or minimal tape data yielded six further episodes of ventricular fibrillation during the first 24 hours (three in the alteplase group and three in the placebo group). 
Quantitation of vascular outflow by measurement of impedance. One of the most important determinants of graft patency is the degree and character of vascular outflow. This study was designed to evaluate input impedance as a functional assessment of the outflow bed of vascular grafts. Four distinct outflow environments were created for external jugular vein conduits in 42 New Zealand white rabbits. Vein grafts (n = 14) were fashioned as end-to-side common carotid interposition bypass grafts. Arteriovenous fistulas (n = 15) were created by side-to-side anastomosis of the distal common carotid artery and linguofacial vein. Arteriovenous fistulas with outflow obstruction (n = 7) were fistulas with a metal clip partially obstructing the distal outflow channel (1 mm lumen). Vein graft/arteriovenous fistula combinations (n = 6) consisted of a vein graft and arteriovenous fistula in series. Pressure and flow in the external jugular vein were measured, and input impedance spectra were calculated by Fourier methods. By use of a PC-based acquisition and processing system, impedance results for 20 cardiac cycles could be obtained in approximately 10 minutes. The results revealed that vein grafts typically demonstrated high resistance to steady state flow (Rin = 235 +/- 50 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5) and steadily decreasing impedance to pulsatile flow resulting in a characteristic impedance (Z0; average of fourth to tenth harmonics) of 35.5 +/- 8.0 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5. Phase angle values were usually negative, especially at low harmonics (first harmonic phase angle = -1.11 +/- 0.10 radians) indicating that flow led pressure. In contrast, arteriovenous fistula Rin was minimal (6.3 +/- 1.4 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5; p less than 0.05 compared to vein graft, and the impedance was flat across the frequency spectrum (Z0 = 8.5 +/- 1.5 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5; p less than 0.05) with pressure and flow nearly in phase (first harmonic phase angle = -0.05 +/- 0.10 radians). Creation of outflow obstruction in arteriovenous fistulas resulted in significantly elevated Rin (136 +/- 41 x 10(3) dyne/sec . cm-5; p less than 0.05 compared to arteriovenous fistula and Z0 (23 +/- 9 x 10(3) dyne . sec/cm-5, p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Gliofibroma. Case report. The case history of an infant with a large gliofibroma is presented. Gliofibromas are rare mixed glialmesenchymal tumors that have been poorly characterized. The computerized tomography appearance and a detailed light and electron microscopic description are presented, along with immunoperoxidase studies of this tumor. This case is compared with gliofibromas described elsewhere in the literature. 
Paget's disease of the nipple. A total of 48 women with Paget's disease of the nipple (nipple eczema containing Paget cells but without a palpable lump) presented to one surgeon over a 13-year period. Temporary healing of the nipple eczema occurred in six patients. In all, 21 of 34 patients with in situ (DCIS) or invasive ductal carcinoma had mammographic abnormalities. Treatment was by simple mastectomy (37 cases), cone excision of the nipple-areola complex (ten cases) and tamoxifen (one case). DCIS was found in 45 operative specimens (96 per cent); eight had associated invasion. The DCIS was predominantly large cell solid/comedo in type and was multifocal in seven cases (19 per cent). At a median (range) follow-up of 56 (18-96) months, four of the ten patients treated by cone excision have developed a local recurrence, two of these patients have also developed metastases. Two of the 37 patients who underwent mastectomy developed loco-regional recurrences; both had invasive foci at their first operation and remain disease free at 8 years. We no longer feel that cone excision is appropriate treatment. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to superior mesenteric artery to duodenum fistula: rare complication of metastatic lung carcinoma. Although metastases from primary carcinoma of the lung to the small intestine appear to be more common than previously suspected, they rarely produce symptoms. Such metastases may present as bowel perforations. Overt gastrointestinal bleeding has been described only as a prelude to perforation. We describe the case of a 55-yr-old man with carcinoma of the lung that had metastasized to the brain and to the third part of the duodenum. The duodenal metastasis presented with massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The metastasis was seen to be actively bleeding at endoscopy, and a direct fistula from a branch of the superior mesenteric artery to the third part of the duodenum was shown angiographically. Arterial invasion and destruction by tumor was confirmed at postmortem examination. This complication of metastatic carcinoma of the lung has not been previously described in the English literature. 
Regulation of jun-B expression by a cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent mechanism in human myeloid cells. The present studies have examined the regulation of the jun-B early response gene by cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent signaling pathways. The 2.0-kb jun-B transcript was at low but detectable levels in uninduced human HL-60 myeloid leukemia cells. In contrast, treatment with 1 mmol/L8-bromo-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP) in the presence of isobutylmethylxanthine, an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent phosphodiesterase, was associated with increases in jun-B transcripts that were maximal by 1 hour and then decreased to near pretreatment levels by 6 hours. Similar findings were obtained with 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-CPT-cAMP) and N6,2'-0-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (dBt-cAMP). jun-B transcripts were also increased with other agents that increase intracellular cAMP levels, such as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and forskolin. Moreover, inhibition of cAMP-dependent protein kinase by the isoquinolinesulfonamide H-8 blocked 8-Br-cAMP-induced increases in jun-B expression. The results of nuclear run-on assays demonstrate that treatment of HL-60 cells with PGE2, forskolin, 8-Br-cAMP, and dBt-cAMP is associated with increases in the rate of jun-B transcription. The present findings also demonstrate that the related jun-D gene is similarly regulated by a cAMP-dependent pathway. Taken together, these findings suggest that stimulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase is involved in the induction of jun gene expression in myeloid leukemia cells. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Proposed guidelines for monitoring toxicity. The most common toxicities of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are gastropathy, renal dysfunction, and liver function abnormalities. We outline an approach to monitoring patients on long-term NSAID therapy, focusing on the early detection of complications. Gastropathy caused by NSAID use is more common in elderly patients or those with a history of dyspepsia, peptic ulcer disease, or alcohol abuse. Fecal occult blood testing and hemograms are less accurate in detecting gastropathy than direct visualization but are convenient and relatively inexpensive. We recommend the periodic use of these tests to detect NSAID-induced acute or chronic blood loss. Renal toxicity is seen in patients with preexisting renal disease or functional volume depletion and in the elderly. Complications include renal insufficiency, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and protein-uria. Renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of NSAID therapy, especially in high-risk patients, with periodic testing thereafter. Hepatic toxicity is less common but warrants occasional determinations of alanine aminotransferase levels. Elderly patients and those with renal insufficiency or alcohol abuse have a higher risk of complications. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs should be used cautiously in those patients at high risk for complications. Strategies can be used to limit toxicity. Patients taking these drugs long term should be monitored periodically for signs of blood loss, renal dysfunction, and hepatic dysfunction. 
Renal cell carcinoma with inferior vena caval involvement. Renal cell carcinoma extends into the lumen of the inferior vena cava in approximately 4% of patients at the time of diagnosis. Surgical removal of the intracaval tumor thrombus with radical nephrectomy is the preferred treatment for this malignancy. From January 1977 to June 1990, 31 such patients were examined for combined problems of renal carcinoma and intracaval tumor extension. Twenty-six of these patients underwent radical nephrectomy and vena caval thrombectomy. Ten patients had tumor thrombus confined to the infrahepatic vena cava, 11 had retrohepatic caval involvement, and 5 had extension to the level of the diaphragm or into the right atrium. Surgical approach was dictated by the level of caval involvement. Control of the suprahepatic vena cava plus temporary occlusion of hepatic arterial and portal venous inflow were necessary in some cases; cardiopulmonary bypass was required for transatrial removal of more extensive tumors. Five of the 26 patients had evidence before operation of distant metastatic disease; none of these survived beyond 12 months. The 5-year actuarial survival rate of the 21 patients without known preoperative metastatic disease was 57%. Complete surgical excision of all gross tumor appears to be critical for long-term survival in these patients. 
Endocrine response determines the clinical outcome of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone ovulation induction in different ovulatory disorders. To accrue systematic information in different ovulatory disorders on the precise relationship among endocrine response, clinical outcome, and the occurrence of complications, we treated 114 patients with pulsatile GnRH (2.5-5.0 micrograms, iv, every 60 min) for 187 cycles and compared them to 20 normal menstrual cycles. Thirty of these patients had primary hypogonadotropic amenorrhea (PHA; 40 cycles), 33 had other forms of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH; 55 cycles), and 51 had polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS; 92 cycles). Daily blood samples were drawn for hormone determinations. In PCOS, 50 cycles were preceded by GnRH analog suppression. PHA treatment cycles were characterized by the reestablishment of a normal endocrine pattern, almost no dose-related endocrine differences, elevated ovulatory (93%) and conception rates (23%), and no multiple pregnancies. In the HH subjects the ovulatory (91%) and pregnancy rates (31%) were high; however, while the lower GnRH dose elicited a normal endocrine pattern, the 5-micrograms dose induced excessive folliculogenesis and high estradiol levels and was associated with most of the multiple pregnancies of this study (three of four). GnRH analog suppression was successfully used to avoid recurrence of ovarian over-stimulation in two HH subjects. Finally, GnRH analog suppression in PCOS permitted normalization of the follicular phase endocrine pattern, achievement of good ovulatory (76%) and pregnancy (28%) rates, and avoidance of multiple pregnancies; however, luteal phase steroid secretion was abnormal, and the abortion rate remained elevated (43%). Obesity was associated with a reduced ovulatory rate in PCOS, but not in hypogonadotropic, subjects. Thus, we can conclude that in pulsatile GnRH ovulation induction: 1) a profound hypogonadotropic condition, whether spontaneous as in PHA or induced with GnRH analogs as in other ovulatory disorders, is associated with optimal menstrual cycle restoration, high ovulatory and conception rates, and virtually absent risks of multiple pregnancy; 2) residual hypothalamic activity in HH may be responsible for supraphysiological pituitary-ovarian stimulation and result in multiple pregnancy unless a low GnRH dose (2.5 micrograms/bolus) or GnRH analog pretreatment is employed; 3) obesity does not affect treatment outcome in hypogonadotropic patients; and 4) the high spontaneous abortion rate in PCOS may be related to corpus luteum dysfunction. 
Decreasing survival benefit from cardiac transplantation for outpatients as the waiting list lengthens. Many patients are accepted for cardiac transplantation during a period of clinical instability associated with a high risk of death, even though most can be discharged home to await transplantation. As the waiting lists lengthen, priority is awarded solely on the basis of the waiting time of outpatients, who now usually undergo transplantation after they have already survived a major period of jeopardy. To determine the impact of the current waiting times and priority system on the previously expected benefit offered by transplantation, 1-year actuarial survival without transplantation was recalculated after each month without transplantation for 214 potential candidates with an ejection fraction of 0.17 +/- 0.05 discharged on tailored medical therapy after evaluation. These data were compared with the 1-year survival data of 88 outpatients who underwent transplantation. Actuarial survival after 1 year was 67% on tailored therapy compared with 88% after transplantation (p = 0.009). Death without transplantation was sudden in 43 of 51 patients, resulting from hemodynamic decompensation in 8. For outpatients already surviving 6 months without transplantation, actuarial survival over the next 12 months was 83% without transplantation. Thus, the expected improvement in survival after transplantation would be only 5% over the subsequent year for patients waiting 6 months, which is the waiting time for many outpatients. Such patients should be reevaluated to determine whether transplantation remains indicated during the next year. 
Immunohistochemical detection of transforming growth factor-beta 1 in fibrotic liver diseases. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 was localized by means of immunohistochemical reaction in liver biopsy specimens taken from patients having different chronic liver diseases with extending fibrosis. Two polyclonal antibodies that were produced in rabbits were directed against the amino terminal of transforming growth factor-beta 1. Staining by anti-CC(1-30) was primarily extracellular and located in the portal and periportal fibrotic areas of all seven cases with chronic active hepatitis. No staining was noted in the four chronic persistent cases studied. A strong reaction was seen with the antibody in nine of the ten cirrhotic samples, whereas it was negative in one inactive cirrhosis case and in all five cases with normal liver histological findings. No positive staining could be detected by the anti-LC(1-30) in any of the liver tissues. Detection of transforming growth factor-beta 1 in active liver diseases at the site of fibrosis suggests that transforming growth factor-beta 1 might have a role in the process and progression of fibrosis during the development of the disease. 
DNA ploidy and cell kinetic measurements as predictors of recurrence and survival in stages B2 and C colorectal adenocarcinoma. DNA content and cell proliferation were measured by flow cytometry on paraffin-embedded Stage B2 or C colorectal adenocarcinomas from 694 patients enrolled in adjuvant trials conducted by the North Central Cancer Treatment Group. Patients with diploid tumors had a higher survival rate than those with nondiploid tumors (P less than 0.001). The proliferation index (the sum of the percent of cells in S-phase plus those in G2M phase) was also a strong prognostic factor (P less than 0.001). The ploidy and proliferation data were combined, and the patients in the favorable group (diploid and low proliferative index) had a 5-year survival of 74% compared with 54% for the unfavorable group (high proliferative index or nondiploid, P less than 0.001). This grouping was prognostic for survival in B2 (P less than 0.001), C (P = 0.013), colon (P less than 0.001), and rectal (P = 0.026) patient subsets. This study indicates that cell kinetic parameters are important and independent prognostic factors for Stages B2 and C colorectal cancer. 
Bilateral perilymph fistula in an adult. Sudden hearing loss is a symptom caused by a variety of diseases, among them also a perilymph fistula. The occurrence of bilateral perilymph fistula is rare, and was reported only associated with head trauma. A case of a bilateral perilymph fistula, without head trauma in an adult construction worker is reported. To the best of our knowledge this is the first bilateral case caused by physical effort to be reported in the literature. 
Comparison of lumbar plexus block versus conventional opioid analgesia after total knee replacement. A randomised controlled study was undertaken to assess the analgesic efficacy of continuous lumbar plexus block for the first 48 hours after total knee replacement surgery. Boluses of 0.5% bupivacaine with adrenaline 1 in 200,000 (0.3 ml/kg) were administered through a cannula inserted into the neurovascular sheath of the femoral nerve. Thirteen patients who received this block required significantly less morphine than a control group of 16 patients. Pain scores were similar and there were no complications related to this technique. 
Lovastatin-associated rhabdomyolysis. Lovastatin is a new drug that has become popular for the treatment of patients with hyperlipidemias. Rhabdomyolysis is a well-documented and potentially dangerous side effect of lovastatin therapy. Critical care nurses should be aware of the symptoms and treatment of rhabdomyolysis. Patients receiving lovastatin should be instructed to report muscle pain or weakness and dark urine immediately. It should be determined whether patients are at risk for development of rhabdomyolysis from other causes so that lovastatin can be withheld. Early diagnosis and treatment can prevent serious complications in patients with lovastatin-induced rhabdomyolysis. 
Do primary dysfunctions in neural control of arterial pressure contribute to hypertension? This article is a summary of the physiological and clinical evidence that links the cause of essential hypertension to the brain. We stress the potential importance of a biochemical disturbance in the central role of angiotensin II in the regulation of arterial pressure. While the evidence is compelling, we acknowledge the need for further complete studies on this timely subject. 
Drug abuse and headache. Substance abuse has been reported frequently in chronic headache patients. The problem exists in most Western countries. Abuse of various compounds frequently leads to a state of dependency. Prescription as well as over-the-counter agents are often abused. Aspirin, acetaminophen, and caffeine are the most frequently abused compounds. Butalbital, ergot alkaloids, NSAIDS, and narcotic and oral or intranasal sympathomimetics are often abused. Patients with chronic daily headache complain of symptoms that may suggest a mixed-type headache. Features of migraine and muscle contraction headache often coexist in these individuals. It has been suggested that the most frequent cause for the transformation of a periodic headache into a daily headache is substance abuse. Substance abuse and drug dependency have multiple causes, and the etiology will reside with the compounds that are used to excess. The problem may arise as a result of poor instructions from the physician, improper diagnosis with gradual escalation in amounts of drug consumed, or a reinforcement mechanism and a brain stimulation-reward effect. The brain reward system has been studied with narcotics and psychomotor stimulants. It may be activated to a lesser degree with ergotamine, barbiturates, and other abused substances. The long-term effects of substance abuse are contingent on the compounds that are used. They may result in organ damage, medical complications, vascular injury, and a refractory state with chronic headache that eludes successful management of the headache disorder. Patients exhibit a less-than-satisfactory quality of life and are often depressed. Treatment includes outpatient care in cooperative, less dependent patients. Often patients will require inpatient management in order to discontinue use of the abused agents. Pharmacologic agents, behavior modification, psychotherapy, dietary intervention, and acupuncture may be necessary to treat the patient. Each patient must be treated by an interested physician, and the patient will require one or more of the preceding measures for a successful outcome. Often abused compounds must be discontinued in order to obtain a satisfactory response in an individual with chronic headache. 
Nutritional therapy for infants with diarrhea. The appropriate choice of treatment for infants with diarrhea has long provoked debate. Growth of infants with diarrhea is adversely affected by associated diseases including anorexia, malabsorption, catabolic response to infection, and iatrogenic starvation. To prevent the negative effects of diarrhea on the nutrition of infants, continued feeding during the active and early convalescent phases has been recommended. Although this concept is not new, until recently it has been little used in the treatment of diarrhea. In this article we examine the current knowledge about, and trends in, feeding infants with diarrhea. We will discuss treatments for the well-nourished infant with acute diarrhea, the infant with prolonged diarrhea, and the malnourished infant. Information regarding the use of local staples will also be provided. 
Restenosis after coronary angioplasty: a multivariate statistical model to relate lesion and procedure variables to restenosis. The M-HEART Investigators. The Multi-Hospital Eastern Atlantic Restenosis Trial group obtained follow-up angiography in 510 patients with 598 successfully dilated coronary lesions who were enrolled in a controlled trial of the effects of a single dose of 1 g of methylprednisolone on restenosis after coronary angioplasty. The overall restenosis rate was 39.6%. The strongest univariate relations to the restenosis rate were found for lesion location (saphenous vein graft, 68%; left anterior descending artery, 45%; left circumflex artery and right coronary artery, 32%; p = 0.002); lesion length (less than or equal to 4.6 mm, 33%; greater than 4.6 mm, 45%; p = 0.001); percent stenosis before angioplasty (less than or equal to 73%, 25%; greater than 73%, 43%; p = 0.005), percent stenosis after angioplasty (less than or equal to 21%, 33%; greater than 21%, 46%; p = 0.017) and arterial diameter (less than 2.9 mm, 44%; greater than or equal to 2.9 mm, 34%; p = 0.036). Two multivariate models to predict restenosis probability were developed with use of stepwise logistic regression. The preprocedural model, which included only variables whose values were known before angioplasty, entered lesion length, vein graft location, left anterior descending artery location, percent stenosis before angioplasty, eccentric lesion and arterial diameter. The postprocedural model, which also included variables whose values were known after angioplasty was performed, was similar to the preangioplasty model except that it also entered postangioplasty percent stenosis and "optimal" balloon sizing but did not enter eccentric lesion. These data indicate that the probability of restenosis after angioplasty is determined predominantly by the characteristics of the lesion being dilated. They are consistent with the known intimal proliferative mechanism of restenosis, offer a means of identifying lesions at unusually high or low risk of restenosis, and of predicting the likelihood that a particular lesion will restenose after angioplasty and provide a rationale for stratification by restenosis probability in the design of future studies of restenosis. 
Genetic dissection of susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in inbred mice. Mice of some inbred strains, such as 21-day-old DBA/2J mice, have generalized convulsions when exposed to intense auditory stimulation. Analysis of susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in BXD recombinant inbred strains has demonstrated the influence of at least three loci. One locus, Asp-1, is located on chromosome 12 between Ah and D12Nyu1; another locus, Asp-2, is on chromosome 4, tightly linked to b. Here we report evidence that Asp-2 is located within an 8-centimorgan segment distal to b and that Asp-3 is linked to Mtv-1 on chromosome 7. We also present evidence that these three loci account for most of the heritable variation in susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in crosses of DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice and that susceptibility to audiogenic seizures is influenced by genomic imprinting. Thus, genomic imprinting may complicate linkage and mapping studies and should be considered in analyses of complex modes of inheritance. 
Genetically determined steady-state interaction between encainide and quinidine in patients with arrhythmias. A genetically determined pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction between quinidine and single doses of encainide in healthy volunteers has previously been described. In subjects with the extensive metabolizer phenotype, quinidine blunted encainide-induced QRS prolongation (a marker of sodium channel block) because it impaired encainide biotransformation to the potent active metabolites O-desmethyl encainide (ODE) and 3-methoxy-O-desmethyl encainide. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that quinidine would inhibit sodium channel block (and by inference arrhythmia suppression) during encainide therapy in patients with the extensive metabolizer phenotype. Surprisingly, however, in eight extensive metabolizer patients, the extent of QRS prolongation during chronic encainide therapy was unaltered by quinidine (139 +/- 21 vs. 139 +/- 22 msec) whereas arrhythmia suppression was enhanced (64 +/- 22 to 77 +/- 19%; P = .05). Plasma concentration data demonstrated that although encainide metabolism to ODE was partially impaired by quinidine, subsequent 3-methoxy-O-desmethyl encainide formation from ODE was virtually completely inhibited; thus steady-state plasma ODE remained unchanged whereas plasma encainide increased 10-fold (21 +/- 30 to 240 +/- 118 ng/ml; P less than .05). In contrast, no changes in disposition or in pharmacodynamics were observed in two poor metabolizers. It is concluded that the effect of this drug interaction in patients is determined by differential sensitivities to inhibition by quinidine of encainide O-demethylation and subsequent ODE 3-methoxylation. Evaluation of potential drug interactions should include assessment of possible genetic factors as well as of steady-state effects. 
Borrelia burgdorferi-associated cutaneous B cell lymphoma: clinical and immunohistologic characterization of four cases. Four patients with low-grade malignant B cell lymphoma of the skin in association with chronic Borrelia burgdorferi infection are presented. Plaque-shaped or nodular erythematous lesions with ill-defined borders were seen. Clinical progression was slow; the skin tumors occurred for up to 7 to 15 years. Extracutaneous involvement was found in only one case. Immunohistologic investigations showed an expression of B cell markers with restriction to only one light chain type and absence of T cell antigens. The growth fraction was 5% to 30%, as shown with the monoclonal antibody Ki-67. The immunoarchitecture of the tumors in three patients was unusual compared with established criteria for cutaneous B cell lymphoma and revealed similarities to mucosa-associated B cell lymphoma. Some immunohistologic heterogeneity may indicate the development of monoclonal proliferation that originated from different phases of B lymphocytic differentiation. In three cases no clinical signs of B. burgdorferi infection were found; in one patient acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans was present. The occurrence of acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and malignant lymphomas was frequently reported in the European literature before B. burgdorferi was recognized. These findings suggest a relation between B. burgdorferi infection and cutaneous B cell lymphoma. In geographic regions where infected ticks are present, borreliosis should be considered in patients with cutaneous B cell lymphoma. 
Clinical and angiographic observations on resuscitated victims of exercise-related sudden ischemic death. The clinical and angiographic findings of 17 resuscitated victims of exercise-related sudden ischemic death are reported in an attempt to elucidate the mechanism(s) of these deaths. Ten survivors developed cardiac arrest during or after sporting activities (group A) and 7 others during or after an exercise stress test (group B). There were 15 men and 2 women. The mean age of group A was 46 years and of group B 55 years. Coronary risk factors, as well as previous angina and myocardial infarction, were more frequent in group B. Only 3 of the 17 survivors had anginal symptoms before sudden death. Sudden death in group A was associated with acute myocardial infarction in 8 and unstable angina in 2 and was associated in group B with acute myocardial infarction in 2, unstable angina in 3 and silent ischemia in 2. Coronary angiography was acutely performed in 15 patients. In most patients the ischemia-related coronary artery was totally or subtotally occluded. Clinical and angiographic findings indicate that exercise-related sudden ischemic death was due to an acute coronary event--in most cases unexpected and unpredictable. It is suggested that exercise-induced intracoronary changes were probably responsible for the development of acute coronary (sub)occlusion and sudden death. 
Effect of tissue plasminogen activator on intimal platelet accumulation in cerebral arteries after subarachnoid hemorrhage in cats. Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator may be effective in preventing cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage by resolving subarachnoid clots. We previously demonstrated that blood placed on the adventitial surface of cerebral arteries enhances intimal platelet accumulation, positively correlating with endothelial damage and other pathologic changes in vessel walls. In this study, we investigated the ability of a single bolus injection of tissue plasminogen activator to prevent platelet accumulation in cerebral vessels after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Subarachnoid hemorrhage was produced in cats by the transorbital intracisternal injection of 2.5 ml autologous arterial blood around the proximal part of the right middle cerebral artery. In 10 animals, 25 micrograms tissue plasminogen activator was injected at intervals of 10 (five cats) and 60 minutes (five cats) after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Intracisternal physiological saline (0.5 ml) was injected in six cats 10 minutes after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Platelets labeled with indium-111 were injected intravenously just before subarachnoid hemorrhage, and their radioactivity was measured in cerebral arteries at death. The results indicated that, after subarachnoid hemorrhage, early injection of tissue plasminogen activator inhibited intimal platelet accumulation, but later injection did not, although the extent of subarachnoid clot was reduced at both plasminogen injection times. 
Murine monoclonal antibodies reactive with a variety of androgen independent Dunning rat prostate adenocarcinoma sublines also reactive with human prostate adenocarcinoma. Murine hybridoma-derived monoclonal antibody (MCA) to Dunning rat prostate adenocarcinoma R-3327HIS (androgen independent type) has been produced by fusing P3x63 Ag8-653 myeloma cells with splenocytes of BALB/c mice which were immunized with R-3327HIS tumor cell membranes. One monoclonal antibody designated MCA-R1 (IgG2a subtype) produced an intense immunostaining of various androgen independent Dunning rat prostate tumor sublines (HIS, HIM, HIF, AT-1, AT-2, AT-3, MAT-Lu and MAY-Ly-Lu), but did not stain other tumors of rat origin or normal rat tissues. Marginal immunostaining was detected in the androgen responsive R-3327H and R-3327G tumor subline. Although MCA-R1 antibody did not react with the regressed prostate tumor of R-3327H or R-3327G, it strongly reacted with the relapsed prostate tumor from either R-3327H or R-3327G tumor derived from rats were treated with diethyl stilbestrol (DES) or castration. MCA-R1 antibody also produced a strong cross-reaction with human prostate adenocarcinoma. Like the Dunning rat tumor, human adenocarcinoma exhibited distinct immunostaining patterns with respect to intracellular localization among well differentiated, moderately differentiated and poorly differentiated tumor. Benign prostatic hyperplasia or other normal tissues did not stain. Immunofluorescence, immunoprecipitation, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and radioautographic analysis revealed that the Dunning rat prostate tumor antigen recognized (m.wt. 50 and 120 Kd) by MCA-R1 antibody are localized on both cell surface and in the cytoplasm. This MCA may represent a potential reagent for the study of tumor biology and immunotherapy of prostate tumor. 
Clinical features of Behcet's disease. Report of four cases. Behcet's disease is a multisystem inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology. The unifying histologic reaction pattern is a leukocytoclastic vasculitis that affects predominantly the skin, oral mucosa, and eyes. Many other sites of involvement have been reported but are inconsistently found in individual patients. Early recognition and treatment of Behcet's disease may help prevent devastating permanent sequelae such as blindness. Because oral involvement is often the first manifestation of this disorder, dental practitioners are in a unique position to help these patients. We report four cases of Behcet's disease in North American patients. Diagnostic criteria and treatment options are reviewed. 
Neglected topics in the treatment of chronic pain patients--relapse, noncompliance, and adherence enhancement. Although published treatment outcome studies for chronic pain have provided favorable support for the efficacy of many pain clinics and the use of specific modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation, there are several factors that mitigate against euphoria. Two related factors that influence interpretation of these reported outcomes are discussed, namely, noncompliance with therapeutic recommendations during treatment and subsequent to treatment termination, and relapse. Conceptual and methodological problems for establishing the prevalence of noncompliance and relapse are reviewed. Several factors that contribute to noncompliance (individual differences, nature of disease or injury, characteristics of the prescribed treatment regimen, health-care provider-patient relationship, and contextual) are discussed. The literature reveals that noncompliance with treatment regimens is quite prevalent across diverse treatment modalities and pain syndromes. The incidence of relapse following initially successful treatment of persistent pain also appears to be high, ranging from 30% to 60%. Studies on arthritis and heterogeneous pain clinic populations suggest that noncompliance and relapse are related; however, this association is less well established for headache patients. Strategies for assessing compliance (i.e., self-report, behavioral, biochemical, and clinical outcome) and the perspectives' of patients and health-care providers on the application of self-care recommendations are discussed. Strategic planning and adherence enhancement tactics to facilitate maintenance of post-treatment gains are described. 
Outbreaks of diarrheal illness associated with cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)-like bodies--Chicago and Nepal, 1989 and 1990. Recent reports have described the detection of cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)-like bodies (CLB) in the stools of persons with a prolonged syndrome of diarrhea, anorexia, and fatigue (1-3). In each of these reports, affected persons either were immunocompromised or had recently traveled to tropical countries. During 1989 and 1990, the first three reported outbreaks of this CLB-associated syndrome occurred in immunocompetent populations, affecting at least 150 persons. This report summarizes investigations of these outbreaks, which occurred in Chicago in 1990 and in Kathmandu, Nepal, in 1989 and 1990. 
Promoting heart health for Southeast Asians: a database for planning interventions. This paper is a report of baseline data that the authors collected on the prevalence of hypertension in a sample of 397 Southeast Asian immigrants residing in central Ohio and the implications of those data for the design of ethnically approved and scientifically valid interventions. The context for collection of these data over a 9-month period in 1989 is described. Baseline demographic characteristics including distributions by ethnicity, sex, age, and length of stay in the United States, as well as family heart health history, hypertension level, and heart health awareness of these subjects are presented. For example, 85 percent of the immigrants did not know what could be done to prevent heart disease. Implications for the design of ethnically approved and scientifically valid prevention strategies are discussed. Based on these data, the authors realized that multiple health education strategies tailored to what they were learning about Southeast Asians would be needed. Through Southeast Asian leaders, they were led to using wall calendars, with words specific to each Southeast Asian language, that had a monthly heart health slogan as one avenue to reach Southeast Asians. Another strategy was to develop videotapes featuring cultural content but including heart health "commercials." The authors concluded that, although scientific validity of risk reduction interventions are important, customizing these strategies to ethnically specific modes of interaction are equally important. 
Long-term assessment of right ventricular diastolic filling in patients with pulmonic valve stenosis successfully treated in childhood. Patients with severe pulmonic stenosis (PS) have right ventricular (RV) diastolic filling abnormalities detectable by tricuspid valve pulsed Doppler examination. To determine if these abnormalities persist long term after successful therapy of PS, 19 patients were examined 8 +/- 3 years after PS therapy. At the time of follow-up Doppler examination, the PS gradient was 15 +/- 8 mm Hg. From the tricuspid valve inflow Doppler study, the following measurements were obtained at peak inspiration: peak velocities at rapid filling (peak E) and during atrial contraction (peak A), ratio of peak E to peak A velocities, RV peak filling rate normalized for stroke volume, deceleration time, the fraction of filling in the first 0.33 of diastole as well as under the E and A waves, and the ratio of E to A area. Data from PS follow-up patients were compared with our previously reported data from 12 age-related control subjects and 14 untreated patients with PS. Patients with PS who were followed up had higher peak E velocity (0.75 +/- 0.14 vs 0.59 +/- 0.21 m/s), lower peak A velocity (0.47 +/- 0.09 vs 0.64 +/- 0.28 m/s), higher E/A velocity ratio (1.65 +/- 0.33 vs 1.11 +/- 0.52), higher 0.33 area fraction (0.52 +/- 0.08 vs 0.34 +/- 0.14), lower A area fraction (0.29 +/- 0.06 vs 0.45 +/- 0.21) and higher E/A area ratio (2.48 +/- 0.82 vs 1.73 +/- 1.05) than PS patients without treatment (p less than 0.03). All Doppler indexes of the patients with PS who were followed up were the same as those of the control subjects except for the peak E velocity that was slightly higher (0.75 +/- 0.14 vs 0.63 +/- 0.11 m/s), the peak A velocity that was slightly higher (0.47 +/- 0.09 vs 0.38 +/- 0.09 m/s) and the E/A area ratio that was slightly lower (2.48 +/- 0.82 vs 3.50 +/- 1.25) (p less than 0.03). Thus, at long-term follow-up, all RV diastolic filling indexes in successfully treated patients with PS improved compared with the untreated patients and approached values found in normal subjects. 
Endothelial cells express the interleukin-1 receptor type I. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) profoundly affects a number of functions of vascular cells. Two distinct IL-1 receptors (IL-1R) are expressed on different cell types: the 80 Kd IL-1RI on T cells and fibroblasts, and the 68 Kd IL-1RII on B cells and myelomonocytic cells. The presence and functionality of IL-1R on vascular cells has been investigated by using polyomatransformed mouse endothelial cell (EC) lines (sEnd.1 and tEnd.1). These cells expressed specific and saturable binding sites for IL-1 (1,273 sites per cell with kd 9.5 x 10(-11) mol/L for sEnd.1, and 771 sites per cell with kd 8.5 x 10(-11) mol/L for tEnd.1, with radioiodinated IL-1 alpha as ligand). Binding of IL-1 was also evident at single cell level by autoradiography. By cross-linking studies, the molecular weight of the IL-1 binding protein on EC was approximately 80 Kd. This was confirmed by the presence in EC of mRNA for the 80 Kd IL-1RI. The IL-1RI on EC was apparently functional, since EC responded to IL-1 with IL-6 mRNA expression and IL-6 bioactivity production. These results were extended to human EC and vascular smooth muscle cells, which were also found to express mRNA for IL-1RI. 
Physiological assessment of sensitivity of noninvasive testing for coronary artery disease. The sensitivity of three noninvasive tests for coronary artery disease was assessed by means of quantitative indexes of disease severity in three different groups of patients. The overall population consisted of 110 subjects with limited coronary artery disease and no myocardial infarction. Planar dipyridamole-201Tl scintigraphy was evaluated in 31 patients, computer-assisted exercise treadmill in 28, and high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography testing in 51. Sensitivity was assessed by rigorous gold standards to define disease severity, such as measurement of minimum cross-sectional area and percent area of stenosis, by quantitative computerized coronary angiography (Brown/Dodge method). On the basis of the results of previous studies, the presence of physiologically significant coronary artery disease was indicated by a stenotic minimum cross-sectional area (MCSA) of less than 2.0 mm2 or a greater than 75% area of stenosis. With MCSA as the gold standard, dipyridamole-201Tl scintigraphy, computerized exercise treadmill, and dipyridamole echocardiography testing showed sensitivities of 52%, 54%, and 61%, respectively, in the three different patient cohorts enrolled. With percent area of stenosis as the gold standard, the sensitivity figures obtained for dipyridamole-201Tl, computerized exercise treadmill, and dipyridamole echocardiography testing were 64%, 54%, and 69%, respectively. For each of the three tests, sensitivity increased with increasing lesion severity. Sensitivity was also better in patients with left anterior descending coronary (LAD) disease when compared with patients with left circumflex or right coronary artery disease. Results of these studies, which were obtained with more strict patient selection criteria and by more rigorous gold standards than previous studies, demonstrate that in patients with limited coronary artery disease none of the tests evaluated is definitely superior in sensitivity. 
Common complaints with cardiac implications in children. Chest pain, palpitations, and dizziness are not infrequent complaints in the office of a primary care physician. Historical events and physical findings can lead to a more accurate determination of cardiac causes of these symptoms. Electrocardiogram and chest radiographs are two additional tests most often helpful in determining cardiac causes of symptoms. 
Relationship between K-ras oncogene activation and smoking in adenocarcinoma of the human lung. To investigate a possible relationship between the exposure to tobacco smoke and the presence of ras point mutations, we examined lung adenocarcinoma samples from 27 smokers and from 27 nonsmokers. Activating point mutations in K-ras (also known as KRAS2) and N-ras (also known as NRAS) were determined by using the polymerase chain reaction and oligonucleotide hybridization to detect the mutated sequences. Mutations were more often found in adenocarcinomas obtained from smokers (eight of 27) than in adenocarcinomas obtained from nonsmokers (two of 27) (P = .044, Fisher's exact test). All mutations were present in K-ras codon 12. None of the other parameters examined differed significantly between the ras-positive and ras-negative groups. We conclude that exposure to carcinogenic agents in tobacco smoke is an important factor in the induction of point mutations in K-ras in human lung adenocarcinomas, but that K-ras mutations may also infrequently occur in tumors of non-smokers. 
Left main coronary artery and femoral artery vasospasm associated with cocaine use. A woman had diffuse vascular spasm related to cocaine use. She presented with evidence of an acute anterior myocardial infarction but had no rise in creatinine phosphokinase levels. Cardiac catheterization showed 90 percent proximal left main coronary artery narrowing. The catheterization was complicated by right femoral artery spasm. A repeat catheterization after treatment with nitroglycerin and diltiazem showed 30 percent proximal left main coronary artery narrowing. This catheterization was complicated by left femoral artery spasm. An exercise treadmill test was negative for ischemia. 
Decreased serum interleukin-2 level in patients with chronic headache. Some cellular immune functions are impaired in cluster headache patients. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a polypeptide secreted by antigen or mitogen-actuated T lymphocytes that functions as a growth factor for T cells. To investigate cellular immune functions in patients with chronic headache, we measured the IL-2 concentration of sera in patients with migraine and in patients with tension-type headache. Thirteen subjects suffering from migraine without aura (5 males and 8 females, mean age: 32.8 years) and 46 subjects (20 males and 26 females, mean age: 39.7 years) with tension-type headache (TH) were selected for this study. Forty-three normal healthy volunteers composed the control group (15 males and 28 females, average age 41.6 years). The IL-2 levels of sera were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) techniques. The IL-2 levels of sera were 3.18 +/- 1.8 U/ml (mean +/- SD) in the healthy controls, 2.29 +/- 2.6 U/ml in the patients with migraine and 1.59 +/- 1.0 U/ml in the patients with TH. The serum level of IL-2 in the patients with migraine was significantly lower than in the controls. The serum level of IL-2 in the patients with TH was significantly lower than in the controls. The central nervous system (CNS) has been considered to be involved in the development of the immune phenomena. In the patients with TH or migraine, reduction in platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels and sympathetic hypofunction have been observed. These phenomena might reflect decrease in 5-HT levels in CNS in the patients with TH or migraine. The decreased serum IL-2 level, observed in this study, might reflect a reduction in 5-HT or catecholamine levels in CNS in the patients with migraine or TH. 
Tolerance and safety of pharmacologic coronary vasodilation with adenosine in association with thallium-201 scintigraphy in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Adenosine thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy is a promising test for coronary artery disease detection, but its safety has not been reported in large patient cohorts. Accordingly, the tolerance and safety profile of adenosine infusion were analyzed in 607 patients (351 men, 256 women, mean age 63 +/- 11 years) undergoing this test either because of suspected coronary artery disease (Group I, n = 482) or for risk stratification early (5.2 +/- 2.8 days) after myocardial infarction (Group II, n = 125). Adenosine increased the heart rate from 74.5 +/- 14.0 to 91.8 +/- 15.9 beats/min (p less than 0.001) and decreased systolic blood pressure from 137.8 +/- 26.8 to 120.7 +/- 26.1 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Side effects were frequent and similar in both groups. Flushing occurred in 35%, chest pain in 34%, headache in 21% and dyspnea in 19% of patients. Only 35.6% of Group I patients with chest pain during adenosine infusion had concomitant transient perfusion abnormalities, compared with 60.7% of Group II patients (p less than 0.05). First- and second-degree AV block occurred in 9.6% and 3.6% of patients, respectively, and ischemic ST changes in 12.5% of cases. Concomitance of chest pain and ischemic ST depression was uncommon (6%) but, when present, predicted perfusion abnormalities in 73% of patients. Most side effects ceased rapidly after stopping the adenosine infusion. The side effects were severe in only 1.6% of patients and in only six patients (1%) was it necessary to discontinue the infusion. No serious adverse reactions such as acute myocardial infarction or death occurred. 
The antinociceptive effects of spinally administered neuropeptide Y in the rat: systematic studies on structure-activity relationship. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36-amino-acid, C-terminal amidated peptide that is found in bulbospinal pathways and can inhibit the release of the primary afferent C-fiber neurotransmitter, substance P. Based on these observations, the present studies examined the possible antinociceptive effects of this peptide and several NPY fragments after intrathecal administration in rats prepared with chronic intrathecal catheters. In the 52 degrees C hot plate test, NPY produced a dose-dependent elevation in the nociceptive threshold with a median effective dose of 1.1 nmol. The ordering of fragments' activity was: NPY greater than NPY16-36 greater than or equal to NPY19-36 greater than or equal to NPY14-36 greater than or equal to NPY18-36 much greater than NPY1-36-OH = NPY18-36-OH = 0. In the paw pressure test, NPY was not active, even at the highest doses examined (median effective dose greater than 20 nmol), whereas the C-terminal fragments retained their potency and produced significant increases in the pressure required to evoke escape (NPY18-36: median effective dose = 18.7 nmol). The rank ordering of activity in the paw pressure test was: NPY19-36 greater than or equal to NPY14-36 greater than or equal to NPY18-36 greater than or equal to NPY16-36 much greater than NPY = NPY18-36-OH = 0. Peptide YY, human pancreatic polypeptide and avian pancreatic polypeptide behave similarly to NPY. 
Disappearance of thalamic pain after parietal subcortical stroke. A hypertensive man had a long standing history of contumacious hyperpathia in the right upper extremity, resistant to medical therapy, secondary to a lacunar infarct in the left thalamus. A second cerebrovascular accident caused a small lesion in the left corona radiata, interrupting the thalamoparietal interconnections, and terminated the pain instantly. Interruption of the subcortical parietal white matter may more effectively control pain than cortical lesions. A few surgeons have successfully treated rebellious chronic pain with stereotaxic operations in the corona radiata, resulting in lesions very similar to our patient's. This overlooked and nearly forgotten technique may still have value in treating selected cases. 
DNA flow cytometric analysis of primary operable breast cancer. Relation of ploidy and S-phase fraction to outcome of patients in NSABP B-04. Between 1971 and 1974, 1665 women with primary operable breast cancer were randomized into a National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) trial (B-04) conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of several different regimens of surgical and radiation therapy. No systemic therapy was given. Cells from archival paraffin-embedded tumor tissue taken from 398 patients were analyzed for ploidy and S-phase fraction (SPF) using flow cytometry. Characteristics and outcome of patients with satisfactory DNA histograms were comparable to those from whom no satisfactory cytometric studies were available. In patients with diploid tumors (43%), the mean SPF was 3.4% +/- 2.3%; in the aneuploid population (57%), the SPF was 7.9% +/- 6.3%. Only 29.9% +/- 17.3% of cells in aneuploid tumors were aneuploid. Diploid tumors were more likely than aneuploid tumors to be of good nuclear grade (P less than 0.001) and smaller size (P equals 0.03). More tumors with high SPF were of poor nuclear grade than were tumors with low SPF (P equals 0.002). No significant difference in 10-year disease-free survival (P equals 0.3) or survival (P equals 0.1) was found between women with diploid or aneuploid tumors. Patients with low SPF tumors had a 13% better disease-free survival (P equals 0.0006) than those with a high SPF and a 14% better survival (P equals 0.007) at 10 years than patients with high SPF tumors. After adjustment for clinical tumor size, the difference in both disease-free survival and survival between patients with high and low SPF tumors was only 10% (P equals 0.04 and 0.08, respectively). Although SPF was found to be of independent prognostic significance for disease-free survival and marginal significance for survival, it did not detect patients with such a good prognosis as to preclude their receiving chemotherapy. The overall survival of patients with low SPF was only 53% at 10 years. These findings and those of others indicate that additional studies are necessary before tumor ploidy and SPF can be used to select patients who should or should not receive systemic therapy. 
Sympathetic responses of patients with congestive heart failure to cold pressor stimulus. Studies in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) demonstrate blunting of sympathoexcitatory responses to baroreflex perturbation. Whereas experimental and limited clinical evidence suggests impairment of baroreflex mechanisms as the etiology of these attenuated responses, an alternative mechanism would be an inability of patients with CHF to increase sympathetic neural outflow above markedly elevated baseline levels. Hemodynamic and sympathetic neural responses (peroneal microneurography) were therefore compared of normal subjects (n = 10) and patients with CHF (n = 10) during the non-baroreflex sympathoexcitatory stimulus of the cold pressor test. The cold pressor stimulus produced increases in arterial pressure and heart rate in both groups. During hand immersion in ice water, normal subjects demonstrated significant increases in muscle sympathetic nerve activity expressed as burst frequency (20 +/- 2 to 28 +/- 3 bursts/min, p less than 0.01), total integrated nerve activity (224 +/- 41 to 342 +/- 62 U/min, p less than 0.05), and total activity corrected for accompanying changes in heart rate (375 +/- 81 to 538 +/- 118 U/100 heart beats, p less than 0.05). Similarly, despite elevated control levels of sympathetic activity, patients with CHF also demonstrated significant sympathoexcitatory responses to the cold pressor stimulus, with increases in muscle sympathetic nerve burst frequency (60 +/- 7 to 67 +/- 7 bursts/min, p less than 0.01) total integrated nerve activity (818 +/- 159 to 1,015 +/- 191 U, p less than 0.001), and total activity corrected for accompanying changes in heart rate (1,008 +/- 178 to 1,173 +/- 201 U/100 heart beats, p less than 0.01). 
Detection of hepatitis C viral RNA in serum of a patient with acute non A, non B hepatitis. The sequence of serologic events in a patient with acute type C hepatitis associated with intravenous drug abuse is described. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) ribonucleic acid was detectable in serum during the acute episode of hepatitis, whereas antibody to the hepatitis C virus appeared later, after the acute illness had subsided. The patient developed chronic hepatitis with persistently elevated serum aminotransferase activities. Both hepatitis C viral ribonucleic acid and antibody to hepatitis C virus persisted in serum, together with elevated serum aminotransferases. Thus, detection of HCV RNA may be useful in the diagnosis of acute type C hepatitis, particularly in the absence of detectable antibody to the hepatitis C virus. 
A circulating factor(s) mediates cell depolarization in hemorrhagic shock. Cell depolarization in hemorrhagic shock has been attributed to hypoperfusion, but the mechanism remains unclear. Suspensions of single cell lines loaded with the potential-sensitive fluorescent dye bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbiturioc acid) trimethine oxonal (DIBAC) and exposed for 30 minutes to rat plasma drawn either before or after hemorrhagic shock (bled 20 mL/kg: mean arterial blood pressure less than 40 mmHg) were studied. Plasma drawn after, but not before, hemorrhage led to partial depolarization regardless of cell type (rat H9C2 skeletal muscle, A-10 smooth muscle, C-9 liver, adrenal, kidney, red blood cell [RBC], white blood cell [WBC]) or species (cat, dog, pig RBC; cat WBC; mouse C2C12 skeletal muscle; and human intestinal smooth muscle [HISM]). Dialysis did not remove the factor(s), suggesting a molecular weight of more than 10,000 daltons. The factor appeared within 5 minutes of shock. The depolarization amplitude increased as a function of plasma concentration and demonstrated saturation kinetics indicating specific receptor binding. Cells were equivalently oxygenated, excluding hypoperfusion as a necessary condition for depolarization. Tumor necrosis factor or platelet activating factor alone or in combination were not effective in this system. Stable measurements can be obtained with this noninvasive system that avoids cell injury consequent to cell impalement with electrodes. This system provides a sensitive in vitro bioassay that should permit identification of the plasma factors mediating cell depolarization, as well as definition of the responsible intracellular mechanisms. 
Ten-year survivors after surgical treatment and perioperative irradiation for esophageal carcinoma. Ten of 150 patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and surgically treated, survived for more than 10 years. All 10 underwent a complete resection of the primary tumor and extensive lymph node dissection plus perioperative irradiation. The clinicopathologic findings in these 10 patients were reviewed. Five were female. Seven of the tumors exceeded 6 cm in length; seven were early stage, and the remaining three were advanced stage tumors. Lymph node metastases were evident in three, lymph vessel permeation was recognized in four, and no vascular vessel permeation was seen in any tumor. Two tumors had a characteristic appearance of carcinoma with lymphoid stroma, suggesting a good prognosis. In six for which cytophotometric DNA analysis could be done, four were type II, two were type III, and none was type IV. Thus, a complete resection of the primary tumor and extensive lymph node dissection can lead to a long survival time even for those with an advanced primary esophageal carcinoma. 
Dysphagia after Nissen fundoplication. Nissen fundoplication is a commonly used antireflux operation. After this operation symptoms such as dysphagia, inability to belch and vomit, and gas bloating are frequently reported in the literature. In 32 patients who underwent Nissen fundoplication 3.5-18 years ago, postprocedure dysphagia was studied using conventional manometry and 24 h ambulatory pressure and pH recording. Our study indicates that dysphagia tends to decrease after surgery. Neither conventional nor ambulatory pressure recording revealed motor abnormalities that could be held responsible for the dysphagia. Therefore, the data do not support the concept that dysphagia is a major complication of Nissen fundoplication. 
Pulmonary hypertension in a lupus clinic: experience with twenty-four patients. The clinical and serological findings on 24 patients with pulmonary hypertension (PHT) seen at the Lupus Clinic of St. Thomas' Hospital, London are presented. Twenty-two patients had systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), one other a primary antiphospholipid syndrome and another an SLE/progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS) overlap syndrome. In 21 of the 24 patients, the disease resembled the primary idiopathic variety with clear lung fields and no clinical evidence of pulmonary thromboembolism, although angiography and nuclear perfusion scans were not performed. Two patients clearly suffered from thromboembolic PHT, one with SLE and one with an antiphospholipid syndrome. One patient with SLE/PSS overlap syndrome developed pulmonary fibrosis. The frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies (lupus anticoagulant and antibodies to cardiolipin was 68% which appears to be higher than generally found in patients with SLE, and the clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Other associated features of the antiphospholipid syndrome in this group were uncommon. Death occurred in 13 of the 24 patients, 4 were lost to followup and 7 are known to be alive. The cause of death was circulatory failure in the majority; sudden death once this complication occurred was particularly common. One patient died from adult respiratory distress syndrome and one from hemorrhagic shock while undergoing heart/lung transplantation. Two patients underwent successful heart/lung transplantation. One, however, died of a mesenteric occlusion and bowel infarction following a second lung transplantation because of rejection of the first heart/lung transplantation after one year. The other patient is alive and well 2 years later. 
Accelerated fractionation radiation therapy for advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. We treated 14 patients who had advanced head and neck cancer with an accelerated fractionation schedule of irradiation consisting of two fractions given 6 hours apart. In the morning a volume of 1.7 Gy was given to an area that encompassed the entire tumor, enlarged lymph nodes, and all areas at risk for microscopic disease. Six hours later, 1.1 Gy was given to an area that included only the tumor and any enlarged lymph nodes, with a 2-cm margin. The treatment was well tolerated; of the 13 patients who completed therapy, six did not require a break in therapy, and seven patients did. The median rest period was 2 days. There was no grade 4 toxicity. Grade 3 toxicity included skin changes (one case), mucositis (two), dysphagia (two), weight loss (three), and a decrease in the hemoglobin level (one case). The response rate in the 13 who completed therapy was 13/13 (100%); 11 of the 13 (83%) had a complete response. Only one of the 11 who achieved a complete response had failure at the primary site. At a median follow-up of 24 months, the absolute survival was 7/13 (54%) and the corrected survival was 7/10 (70%). This technique permits radiation therapy to be given on an accelerated schedule without a planned break in treatment. The overall response rate and survival at 2 years was excellent. 
Both intravenous lidocaine and morphine reduce the pain of postherpetic neuralgia. We studied the analgesic efficacy of an intravenous infusion of lidocaine and morphine in 19 adults with well-established postherpetic neuralgia in a three-session, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Compared with saline placebo, both lidocaine and morphine reduced pain intensity. Reductions in pain did not correlate with side effects produced by the infusions. For morphine, there was a significant correlation between reductions in pain intensity and blood level achieved. In the majority of subjects who reported definite pain relief, allodynia also disappeared. The results show that neuropathic pain can respond to opioids and to systemically administered local anesthetic drugs. 
Acoustic neuroma (schwannoma) surgery 1978-1990. A series of 151 patients with 154 acoustic schwannomas have been operated upon in Manchester Royal Infirmary by a joint Otological and Neurosurgical team, employing either the translabyrinthine or the suboccipital approach. The perioperative mortality rate was 3 per cent. Anatomical preservation of the facial nerve was achieved in 89 per cent of tumour removals and a good to normal functional result in 79 per cent of cases. Attempts at hearing preservation have been unsuccessful, largely because of the small number of patients in the series in whom useful hearing was present preoperatively. Complications included major brain stem ischaemia (1.2 per cent), CSF fistula (5 per cent) and facial dysaesthesia (7 per cent). The incidence of mortality and morbidity is directly related to tumour size and to the experience of the surgeons. A number of patients experienced an unusual type of post-operative dreamlike state which appeared to be a form of hypnagogic hallucination, and the possible neurophysiological mechanism responsible for this phenomenon is discussed. The continuing failure to attain the ideal of early diagnosis is lamented, and the importance of a flexible bidisciplinary surgical approach emphasized. 
Headaches in adolescents. Diagnosis and management. A thorough history, general physical examination, neurologic evaluation, and charting of the temporal pattern of the headache will allow the correct diagnosis to be made under most circumstances. Laboratory testing is tailored to the specific headache syndrome. Psychological factors are important in all forms of adolescent headache and should be evaluated in each and every case. Once the correct diagnosis has been made, a comprehensive approach to the patient's problems, medical and psychological, will usually result in improvement. 
Hypophysectomy inhibits the synthesis of tumor necrosis factor alpha by rat macrophages: partial restoration by exogenous growth hormone or interferon gamma. We recently demonstrated that GH and interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) act in a similar manner to prime macrophages in vitro and in vivo for enhanced superoxide anion release. In this report we investigated the physiological role of the pituitary gland and GH in in vivo priming of resident peritoneal macrophages for the synthesis of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) in vitro. Compared to normal rats, hypophysectomized animals had an 83% reduction in macrophage production of TNF alpha after in vitro stimulation with lipopolysaccharide. Sham operation had no significant effect on the ability of macrophages to secrete TNF alpha in response to lipopolysaccharide. Both native pituitary-derived porcine GH (48 micrograms/rat.9 days) and native pituitary-derived rat GH (96 micrograms/rat.9 days) more than tripled the in vitro production of TNF alpha by macrophages from hypophysectomized rats (342 and 358 vs. 112 U/mg protein for placebo-treated rats, respectively). Each of these preparations of GH also increased growth more than 6-fold in hypophysectomized rats (32 and 30 g vs. 5 g in placebo controls). Heat inactivation of native pituitary-derived porcine GH significantly reduced its in vivo ability to augment both TNF alpha synthesis by macrophages and body growth. Recombinant rat IFN gamma (2000 U/rat.9 days) more than tripled the production of TNF alpha by macrophages from hypophysectomized rats (343 vs. 112 U/mg protein). In contrast to its in vivo effects, addition of GH in vitro to macrophages from hypophysectomized rats did not prime these cells for the synthesis of TNF alpha, indicating an indirect mechanism of action for GH. To further test the biological relevancy of GH with respect to synthesis of TNF alpha, hemorrhagic necrosis of TNF alpha-sensitive murine methyl-cholanthrene-induced tumors was assessed in pituitary-intact mice. Native porcine GH (133 micrograms/mouse.7 days) significantly augmented both the necrosis to tumor ratio and the hemorrhage to tumor ratio. These findings establish the physiological relevance of the pituitary gland and GH in the priming of macrophages for TNF alpha synthesis. 
Increased occurrence of arrhythmias in men with ischaemic type ST-segment depression during long-term ECG recording. Prognostic impact on ischaemic heart disease: results from the prospective population study 'Men born in 1914', Malmo, Sweden. The objective of this long-term ECG (LTER) study in 394 68-year-old men, selected at random from the general population of Malmo, Sweden, was to determine the prevalence and occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and their impact on morbidity and mortality from IHD. According to Lown classification, 29.4% (116 men) had ventricular arrhythmia (VA) group 4-5. Serious ventricular arrhythmia (Lown group 4-5) was more common in men with asymptomatic ischaemic type ST-segment depression (STD) than in those without it (37.8% vs. 26.7%: P less than 0.05). During the mean follow-up period of 53.1 months there were seven IHD deaths (6%) among the 116 patients with VA, Lown 4-5, and nine IHD deaths (3.2%) among the 278 patients without serious VA, Lown 0-3, (P = 0.26). Six and three of these deaths, respectively, were considered to be sudden (P = 0.022). The increased cardiac event rate (fatal or non-fatal MI or deaths due to chronic IHD) associated with a serious ventricular arrhythmia disappeared when history of IHD at baseline and occurrence of STD during LTER were taken into account. The study did not provide any evidence to suggest that ventricular arrhythmia was triggered by myocardial ischaemia. Five of 9 (56%) deaths due to IHD in men with STD occurred among the 38% (37/98) of patients who belonged to Lown class 4-5. It is concluded that the prognostic information derived from LTER can be improved by combined monitoring of STD and ventricular arrhythmias. 
Effect of intravenously administered dexmedetomidine on pain after laparoscopic tubal ligation. Ninety-six women undergoing laparoscopic tubal ligation were randomized to receive intravenously either 0.2 or 0.4 microgram/kg of dexmedetomidine, 60 micrograms/kg of oxycodone, or 250 micrograms/kg of diclofenac for postoperative pain in a double-blind study design. The study drugs were administered in the recovery room for moderate or severe pain and were repeated until pain subsided or disappeared. In the group receiving diclofenac, 83% of the patients required analgesic supplementation with morphine. This contrasted (P less than 0.01) with 33% of the patients receiving either oxycodone or the higher dose of dexmedetomidine. After the first dose of oxycodone was injected, the visual analogue scale for pain (0%-100%) was reduced from 58% to 33%, whereas corresponding pain relief was only achieved after the third injection of 0.4 microgram/kg of dexmedetomidine. Repeated doses of 0.2 microgram/kg of diclofenac or dexmedetomidine did not reduce the visual analogue scale value by more than 17%. More sedation was seen with the higher dose of dexmedetomidine than with either diclofenac or oxycodone (P less than 0.001). Both doses of dexmedetomidine decreased heart rate when compared with diclofenac (P less than 0.001). In the group given 0.4 microgram/kg of dexmedetomidine, 33% of the patients required atropine for bradycardia. The authors conclude that after laparoscopic tubal ligation, intravenously administered dexmedetomidine relieves pain and reduces opioid drug requirement but is attended by sedation and a high incidence of bradycardia. 
Supraventricular tachycardia associated with continuous furosemide infusion. Three cases of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) associated with the use of furosemide infusion (FI) in children following cardiac surgery are reported. The SVT occurred three to seven hours after starting an infusion at 1.0 mg.kg-1.hr-1. All three patients had a diuresis of 8-10 ml.kg-1.hr-1 compared with a mean average of 2.5 ml.kg-1.hr-1 in 22 other patients who had received a similar infusion. A rapid fluid shift was the most likely mechanism of the tachycardia. Sotalol was effective in controlling the tachycardia in the two patients in whom it was tried. We now recommend a starting dose of 0.3 mg.kg-1.hr-1 in using furosemide as a continuous infusion, with hourly increments of 0.1 mg.kg-1.hr-1 until the desired diuresis is obtained. 
Influence of the lumbar interspace chosen for injection on the spread of hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine. Forty patients undergoing elective Caesarean section were allocated randomly to receive hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine 2.5 ml at either the L2-3 (n = 20) or L4-5 (n = 20) interspace. Spinal injection was performed with a 29-gauge needle in 38 patients and a 25-gauge needle in two. The onset time to analgesia at T10 and T6 was significantly faster and the level of analgesia at 5 and 10 min after injection significantly higher after injection at L2-3. Maximum height and range of analgesia, the level of analgesia at 15 and 20 min after injection and the number of episodes of hypotension were not significantly different between the two groups. One case of post-dural puncture headache was recorded after use of a 29-gauge needle. Overall, the choice of lumbar interspace influenced the rate of onset of analgesia, but not the final dermatomal level (mean and range) of analgesia achieved. 
Noninvasive methods in the diagnosis of ruptured aneurysm of Valsalva. Usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging and Doppler echocardiography. A ruptured aneurysm of noncoronary sinus of Valsalva was diagnosed noninvasively by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as well as by Doppler echocardiography. Diagnosis of this disease by MRI has not been reported previously. 
Is a chest radiograph necessary in the evaluation of every febrile infant less than 8 weeks of age? This study was designed to examine the relationship between respiratory signs and the likelihood of having an abnormal chest radiograph in a sample of febrile infants less than 8 weeks of age. The sample consisted of 242 infants who were admitted during a 3-year period with temperatures greater than or equal to 38 degrees C (100.4 degrees F) and had a chest radiograph. The house officer recorded the presence of respiratory signs and symptoms including rhinorrhea, tachypnea, cough, rales, wheezes, retractions, and rhonchi. Each chest radiograph was reviewed independently according to predetermined criteria by a senior radiology resident and an attending pediatric radiologist. Interobserver agreement was 91%. Both observers were blind to the infants' respiratory signs. The chest radiograph interpretations were compared with the presence of respiratory signs. Of the 242 cases, 228 had chest radiographs available for interpretation. Of these, 27 chest radiographs (12%) were identified as abnormal, including 6 where there was initial disagreement as to the presence of an abnormality. Twenty-five (31%) of 80 infants with any respiratory signs had an abnormal chest radiograph, whereas only 2 (1%) of 148 asymptomatic infants did. The sensitivity of respiratory signs was 93% (confidence interval = 76% to 99%). These findings suggest that in the absence of respiratory signs, febrile infants are unlikely to have an abnormal chest radiograph. 
Mammographic localization and biopsy of nonpalpable breast lesions. A 5-year study. A malignancy rate of 24% was achieved as a result of needle localizations and biopsies of 548 nonpalpable mammographically detected breast lesions in 507 consecutive patients during a 5-year period. Malignancy was present in 74 (23.8%) of 311 irregular soft-tissue densities, in 40 (19.6%) of 204 cases with clustered microcalcifications, and in 33 cases (54.5%) when both features were present. Same-day admission and discharge were achieved in 491 patients and local anesthesia supplemented with intravenous sedation was used in 73 (74%) of the 98 patients (in 1989) by the end of the study period. Nonpalpable cancers were categorized pathologically as stage 0 in 25 patients (20.8%), stage I in 67 patients (55.8%), stage IIA in 24 patients (20.0%), and stage IIB in four patients (3.3%). The malignancy rate rose sharply from the fourth to the fifth decade. 
Effects of hypoxaemia and bradycardia on neonatal cerebral haemodynamics. Near infrared spectroscopy has been used to assess the effects of bradycardia and hypoxia on the cerebral circulation in the premature neonate. The technique is well tolerated and can be applied in almost any infant. Continuous monitoring of changes in cerebral oxygenated, deoxygenated, and total haemoglobin is possible. Total haemoglobin is analogous to cerebral blood volume; thus information on circulatory changes as well as oxygenation state can be obtained. Twenty five babies had cerebral monitoring carried out using this technique. During episodes of hypoxia, both spontaneous and induced, impairment of haemoglobin oxygenation within the brain was detected together with an overall increase in the total mean haemoglobin concentration, which was 0.8 x 10(-2) mmol/l. Bradycardia with apnoea also led to impairment of cerebral oxygenation, and to a rapid fall in the concentration of total mean haemoglobin to 1.4 x 10(-2) mmol/l, which was followed in some cases by an increase to above the resting value on recovery of the heart rate to a mean of 0.7 x 10(-2) mmol/l. These disturbances to total haemoglobin concentration represent abnormalities of cerebral blood volume that may be implicated in the pathogenesis of neonatal cerebral injury. 
Reirradiation for extremity soft tissue sarcomas. Local control and complications. The treatment for patients who have locally recurrent soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity after surgery and radiation therapy is primarily amputation. A second course of radiation and local excision is usually not considered because of two major concerns: radiation complications and inability to achieve local disease control. This study examines the clinical course of 32 patients who received a second course of radiation for soft tissue sarcoma. Four groups of patients were defined by the sequence of radiation (preoperative and postoperative) and surgery. Despite high cumulative doses of radiation, complications requiring amputation were rare. Local tumor control was achieved with a second course of preoperative radiation and wide local excision in 15 of 18 (84%). However, local excision and a second course of postoperative radiation resulted in eight of 14 (57%) local failure and cannot be recommended as a comparable therapy to amputation. 
Socioeconomic status in the epidemiology and treatment of hypertension. The association of socioeconomic status (SES), as indexed by educational achievement, with the prevalence, prognosis, and efficacy of treatment of hypertension in the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program (HDFP) was reviewed. The prevalence of hypertension varied inversely with SES during the screening program initiated to identify HDFP eligibles in 14 communities in 1973-1974. There was a strong inverse gradient of 5-year all-cause mortality with SES among the hypertensive participants referred to usual care in the HDFP. The association of mortality with SES among hypertensive subjects was eliminated by the HDFP stepped-care program. A large portion of the efficacy of the HDFP was associated with in-trial blood pressure control. Inasmuch as these results are generalizable to the nation, a large fraction of hypertension-associated morbidity and mortality in the United States was related to lower SES in the 1970s, before widespread implementation of programs resulting in increased awareness, treatment, and control of hypertension. 
Duodenocaval fistula in peptic ulceration. Duodenocaval fistula is usually caused by abdominal trauma. We report a patient in whom it was associated with peptic ulcer. 
Metastatic basal cell carcinoma: report of a case presenting with respiratory failure. Metastasis from basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of skin is rare. A case of a 58-year-old male presenting with increasing shortness of breath and right pleural effusion is described. Open right pleural biopsy demonstrated metastatic carcinoma consistent with BCC. Review of medical records from another hospital revealed that four years previously a recurrent BCC had been excised from the left back. One and three years prior to this excision, a skin lesion at this same site had been treated with electrocautery. Review of the skin excision slides demonstrated infiltrating BCC histologically very similar to the metastatic pleural neoplasm. The patient died two months after the pleural biopsy. At autopsy, the cutaneous BCC had not recurred and metastatic BCC extensively infiltrated the pleura bilaterally, with focal involvement of underlying lung parenchyma, subcarinal lymph nodes, diaphragm, and pericardium. 
Cytarabine and neurologic toxicity. Cytarabine is an effective drug in the treatment of certain hematologic malignancies and its common toxicities are myelosuppression and gastrointestinal disturbance. In the past decade, neurotoxicity has been an increasingly recognized cytarabine effect. Intrathecal (IT) cytarabine may result in myelopathy that is incompletely reversible. Combined IT drug and cranial irradiation may lead to necrotizing leukoencephalopathy. Intravenous (IV) therapy may cause a peripheral neuropathy that varies greatly in its severity. The high IV cytarabine doses now commonly used can cause seizures, cerebral dysfunction, or an acute cerebellar syndrome with an incidence up to 14%. Patient age (greater than 60 years) appears to be the most important risk factor, but drug dose/schedule, cumulative drug dose, renal and hepatic dysfunction, and concomitant use of neurotropic antiemetic agents may also influence the risk of neurotoxicity. A better understanding of the pathophysiology and pharmacology of such cytarabine-induced neuronal injury will allow this drug to be used with greater efficacy and safety. 
Ossification of posterior longitudinal ligament of the cervical spine in non-Japanese Asians. "The Japanese disease," ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, is not confined to the Japanese only. A similar incidence of 0.8% was found in this study among non-Japanese Asians. Of 5167 patients who attended the Mount Elizabeth Hospital in Singapore for cervical spine complaints, 43 patients were found to have ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, forming the largest non-Japanese series. All but one patient were of Mongolian origin, and males were affected four times more commonly than females. Diabetes mellitus was present in 16%. There was a significant association between ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and calcification of other cervical paraspinal ligaments. It is suggested that a generalized tendency to calcification may be an important etiological factor in ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. Four of the patients required surgery, and in our experience, anterior spinal fusion with removal of the ossified ligament or multilevel laminoplasty gives satisfactory results. 
Differential regulation of rasGAP and neurofibromatosis gene product activities. The ras-encoded p21ras proteins bind GTP very tightly, but catalyse hydrolysis to GDP very slowly. In humans, two genes encode proteins that stimulate this GTPase activity (GAP, or GTPase-activating proteins), one of relative molecular mass 120,000, referred to as p120-GAP, and another NF1-GAP, which is encoded by the neurofibromatosis type-1 gene. Both GAPs are widely expressed in mammalian tissues. Here we show that although they will both bind oncogenic mutants of p21ras, neither will stimulate their GTPase activity. NF1-GAP binds to the p21ras proteins up to 300 times more efficiently than p120-GAP. The two GAPs are inhibited to different extents by certain lipids: micromolar concentrations of arachidonate, phosphatidate and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate affect only NF1-GAP. This inhibition does not compete with p21ras, and lipid-inactivated NF1-GAP can still bind p21ras. We used the detergent dodecyl maltoside, which inhibits only NF1-GAP, to distinguish between the two activities in cell extracts and found both types present together in several mammalian cell lines. In contrast, GAP activity in extracts of Xenopus oocytes was not affected by dodecyl maltoside. By these criteria, the mammalian cells contain both GAP activities and the oocytes have only p120-like GAP activity. These results indicate that more than one GAP regulates p21ras in the same cell. 
Anti-Ri: an antibody associated with paraneoplastic opsoclonus and breast cancer. The serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 8 women with ataxia, 6 of whom also had eye movement abnormalities believed to be opsoclonus, were found to contain a highly specific antineuronal antibody we call anti-Ri. Seven of the 8 women also had or developed cancer: carcinoma of the breast in 5, adenocarcinoma in an axillary lymph node in 1, and carcinoma of the fallopian tube in 1. Four patients presented with the neurological disorder; the cancer was diagnosed first in the other 4. Immunohistochemical studies using serum or CSF from all 8 patients revealed a highly specific antibody interaction with central nervous system neuronal nuclei but not with glial or other cells; the titer ranged from 1:5,000 to 1:320,000 in serum and from 1:2,000 to 1:16,000 in CSF. Biotinylated IgG from the patients' serum reacted with the tumors of 3 of 4 patients with anti-Ri antibody but not with breast cancers from patients without anti-Ri antibody. Immunoblots against cerebral cortex neuronal extracts identified protein antigens of 55-kd and 80-kd relative molecular mass. Serum titers by immunoblot ranged from 1:500 to more than 1:40,000 and CSF titers, from 1:10 to 1:2,000. The relative amount of anti-Ri was always higher in CSF than in serum. The antibody was not present in sera from normal individuals; patients with breast cancer without opsoclonus; other patients with opsoclonus; or patients with other paraneoplastic syndromes related to breast, ovarian, or small-cell lung cancer. We conclude that the presence of anti-Ri antibody identifies a subset of patients with paraneoplastic ataxia and eye movement disorders (opsoclonus) who usually suffer from breast or other gynecological cancer; the antibody when present is a useful marker for an underlying malignancy. 
Analgesic effect of intraarticular morphine after arthroscopic knee surgery BACKGROUND. Opioids can produce potent antinociceptive effects by interacting with local opioid receptors in inflamed peripheral tissue. In this study we examined the analgesic effects of the intraarticular, as compared with intravenous, administration of morphine after arthroscopic knee surgery. METHODS. In a double-blind, randomized trial, we studied 52 patients who had received one of four injections at the end of surgery. The patients in group 1 (n = 18) received 1 mg of morphine intraarticularly and saline intravenously; those in group 2 (n = 15), saline intraarticularly and 1 mg of morphine intravenously; those in group 3 (n = 10), 0.5 mg of morphine intraarticularly and saline intravenously; and those in group 4 (n = 9), 1 mg of morphine and 0.1 mg of naloxone intraarticularly and saline intravenously. The volume of the intraarticular injections was 40 ml, and that of the intravenous injections was 1 ml. After 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 24 hours, postoperative pain was assessed with a visual-analogue scale, a numerical-rating scale, and the McGill pain questionnaire. The need for supplemental analgesic agents, the patients' vital signs, and the occurrence of side effects were monitored. RESULTS. All pain scores were lower in group 1 than in group 2 at all times. The differences were significant (P less than 0.05) at three, four, and six hours (mean [+/- SD] visual-analogue score at six hours, 9 +/- 13 mm vs. 37 +/- 31 mm). The mean (+/- SD) consumption of supplemental analgesic medication per 24 hours was significantly lower in group 1 (36 +/- 51 mg of diclofenac and 1.2 +/- 3.4 mg of meperidine) than in group 2 (75 +/- 42 mg of diclofenac and 14 +/- 18 mg of meperidine, P less than 0.05). The visual-analogue scores in group 3 were slightly but not significantly higher than those in group 1 at all times except 6 and 24 hours after injection. The visual-analogue scores were significantly higher in group 4 than in group 1 one to four hours after injection (P less than 0.05), indicating that the analgesic effect of intraarticular morphine was reversible by naloxone. CONCLUSIONS. Low doses of intraarticular morphine can significantly reduce pain after knee surgery through an action specific to local opioid receptors that reaches its maximal effect three to six hours after injection. 
Possible association between mutant frequency in peripheral lymphocytes and domestic radon concentrations To investigate whether previously found geographical correlations between leukaemia incidence and exposure to radon are reflected in a detectable mutagenic effect on individuals, the frequency of mutations in the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase gene (hprt) in peripheral blood T lymphocytes was measured in subjects with known domestic radon concentrations. These concentrations were measured in December, 1989, in houses in Street, Somerset, UK, by passive alpha-track radon detectors. 20 non-smoking subjects aged 36-55 years were selected from the patient list at the local health centre on the basis of the radon concentrations in their homes--the range selected varied by a factor of ten. Blood samples for preparation of T lymphocytes were taken in July, 1990. There was a significant association between the log mutant frequency and radon concentration (t = 3.47, p less than 0.01). A second analysis of a further set of radon measurements (October, 1990, to January, 1991), in both living rooms and bedrooms, and repeated mutant frequency determinations also showed a significant relation, which remained significant even after exclusion of the highest frequency and adjustment for subject's age and cloning efficiency. These data must be regarded as preliminary and further more extensive studies should be done to determine whether the observed association is causal. 
Oxygen delivery-dependent oxygen consumption in acute respiratory failure. OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether oxygen consumption (VO2) is dependent on oxygen delivery (DO2) in adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and non-ARDS acute respiratory failure. DESIGN: Intervention study of a consecutive sample of patients admitted to the ICU with the diagnosis of acute respiratory failure. SETTING: Tertiary care center. PATIENTS: Thirteen consecutive patients with a diagnosis of ARDS and 11 with a diagnosis of respiratory failure not due to ARDS. Patients were monitored with an oximetric pulmonary artery catheter and mechanically ventilated. INTERVENTIONS: DO2 was decreased by the application of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) (20 cm H2O), and subsequently increased by an iv infusion of dobutamine (10 micrograms/kg.min). RESULTS: After the application of PEEP, DO2 decreased significantly in both groups. However, VO2 decreased significantly (p less than .01) only in the ARDS group. When dobutamine was infused, DO2 increased significantly (p less than .01) in both groups, but VO2 increased only in ARDS patients. DO2 correlated significantly with VO2 both in ARDS (r2 = .81, p less than .01) and in non-ARDS (r2 = .38, p less than .05) patients. The correlation coefficient was significantly higher for ARDS than for non-ARDS patients. Comparing the slopes of the regression lines, a stronger dependency of VO2 on DO2 was found in ARDS than in non-ARDS respiratory failure (p less than .001). The oxygen extraction ratio correlated with DO2 in non-ARDS patients (r2 = .49, p less than .05), but not in ARDS patients. CONCLUSIONS: VO2 is dependent on DO2 over a wide range of DO2 values in acute respiratory failure. This dependency phenomenon is much stronger in ARDS than in respiratory failure due to other causes. Due to the abnormal dependency of VO2 on DO2, changes in the oxygenation status may not be reflected by changes in mixed venous oxygen saturation in ARDS. 
Effect of metoclopramide on angiotensins, aldosterone, and atrial peptide during hypoxia. The coupling of aldosterone with renin is altered during acute hypoxemia. We measured the various components of the renin-angiotensin system and the plasma levels of immunoreactive atrial natriuretic factor (iANF) during room air and hypoxic gas-mixture breathing before and after administration of metoclopramide, a competitive antagonist of dopamine. Seven resting volunteers were studied 1 wk apart under room air and hypoxic conditions (inspired O2 fraction 0.12). During hypoxemia, the release of aldosterone induced by metoclopramide was significantly smaller. This change was associated with a slight increase in iANF and with a decrease in plasma angiotensin II levels, without any change in immunoreactive blood angiotensin I concentrations. Plasma electrolytes and blood acid-base status did not show relevant changes, nor did blood pressure and heart rate. We conclude that the decreased aldosterone concentrations seen under hypoxemia are related to decreased angiotensin II levels. Other influences, such as elevated ANF, may also mediate this effect. 
Selective pulmonary vasodilation by low-dose infusion of adenosine triphosphate in newborn lambs. The systemic and pulmonary vascular effects of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) were investigated in 12 newborn lambs during normoxia and during alveolar hypoxia (10% oxygen, 5% carbon dioxide, and 85% nitrogen). Lambs had catheters in the descending aorta, main pulmonary artery, and were studied after a 3-day recovery. We infused ATP or an equal volume of saline solution (control) into the right atrial line in doses ranging from 0.01 to 2.5 mumol/kg per minute. In normoxic lambs, ATP caused a significant decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance in doses of 0.08 to 2.5 mumol/kg per minute, and in systemic vascular resistance in doses of 0.3 to 2.5 mumol/kg per minute. Infusion of ATP in hypoxic lambs caused decreases in pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance in all the doses tested. Systemic vascular resistance decreased, and cardiac output and heart rate increased in doses greater than 0.3 mumol/kg per minute in hypoxic lambs during ATP infusion. The effects of ATP in hypoxic lambs were not blocked by propranolol, indomethacin, or theophylline. Plasma ATP levels in left atrial blood samples did not change significantly during the infusion of ATP. We conclude that ATP is a vasodilator in lambs, and its effects are specific for pulmonary circulation at doses of less than or equal to 0.15 mumol/kg per minute. The vasodilator effects of ATP appear to be independent of P1 purinergic and beta-adrenergic mechanisms, and of prostacyclin synthesis. 
Randomized, double-masked study of cyclosporine compared to prednisolone in the treatment of endogenous uveitis. Fifty-six patients with bilateral sight-threatening noninfectious intermediate or posterior uveitis participated in a randomized double-masked study of the use of cyclosporine vs prednisolone in their treatment. Applying the end-point definitions, visual acuity or vitreal haze improved in only 13 of 28 (46%) patients in each group. The macular edema resolved in seven of 15 patients of the cyclosporine-treated group, and in ten of 16 patients of the prednisolone-treated group (P = .376). Patients whose therapies failed both cyclosporine and prednisolone trials were treated with both drugs, which resulted in additional patient improvements. Secondary effects were observed in both therapeutic alternatives, the most notable being alterations in serum creatinine concentration and hypertension with the dosage of cyclosporine used. 
Vipoma of the pancreas complicating ulcerative colitis. We report a case of vipoma of the pancreas in conjunction with ulcerative colitis in a 20-yr-old woman. Twenty months after the onset of ulcerative colitis, the patient complained of watery diarrhea and was found to have an electrolyte disorder. A pancreatic tumor was detected by ultrasonography and computed tomography, along with an elevation of serum vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). The secretory diarrhea diminished dramatically, and the serum VIP level decreased into the normal range immediately after resection of the pancreatic tumor. Immunohistochemical staining revealed a pancreatic vipoma. Despite removal of the vipoma, she underwent restorative proctocolectomy and ileal J-pouch anal anastomosis 2 yr later due to progression of the ulcerative colitis. Postoperative course was uneventful, with excellent functional results. Knowledge of this rare condition accompanying ulcerative colitis may help in the management of the patient with an atypical clinical course. 
Establishment of permanent renal tubule cell lines by infection with the wild-type and a thermosensitive mutant of the simian virus 40. This study summarizes the properties of rabbit renal tubule cell lines transformed by the simian virus 40 (SV40). By infection with the wild type SV40, it was possible to establish three different cell lines exhibiting the main functions of proximal (RC.SV1), thick ascending limb-distal (RC.SV2), and collecting (RC.SV3) tubules. Another cell line infected with a thermosensitive mutant of SV40 (RC.SVtsA58) was highly sensitive to arginine vasopressin when cells were cultured at the restrictive temperature of 39.5 degrees C, suggesting they derived from principal cells of the collecting tubule. 
Hepatocarcinoma in cirrhosis. Is antithrombin III a neoplastic marker? It has been reported that hepatoma (HCC) cells produce abnormal proteins such as erytropietin, fibrinogen, prothrombin, and, recently, antithrombin III (AT III). In a preliminary report, we reported increased AT III levels in patients bearing HCC independent of their clinical liver status. The present study was performed to assess antithrombin III levels and other serological data present in patients with cirrhosis and in patients with cirrhosis and clinical findings of neoplastic disease. In 70 well-matched patients (47 with cirrhosis and 23 with cirrhosis and proven HCC) serum total cholesterol, albumin, prothrombin, alkaline phosphatase, AFP, aminotransferases, and AT III were determined. Together with AFP and alkaline phosphatase, patients with HCC had higher values of AT III (88 +/- 7%) and total cholesterol (184 +/- 17 mg/100 ml), as compared with cirrhotic patients (AT III 56 +/- 3.6%; total cholesterol 113 +/- 5 mg/100 ml) (P less than 0.001). No difference was observed between these two groups for albumin, prothrombin, and aminotransferases. In HCC patients, AT III levels were related to the total cholesterol level (R2 = 0.317), whereas in the cirrhotic patients it correlated with the prothrombin level (R2 = 0.274). These data suggest that in HCC patients a greater rate of synthesis of AT III occurs, whereas in cirrhotic patients lower levels of AT III occur due to impaired synthesis or increased catabolism of the protein. The serial determination of AT III in cirrhotic patients as a means of detecting neoplastic transformation is suggested. 
Hospital mortality and long-term survival after pulmonary resection in the elderly. We have studied the hospital mortality and long-term survival in two groups of patients: those between 50 and 69 years of age (group 1, n = 136) and those older than 70 years of age (group 2, n = 43). The two groups were similar in terms of the distribution of histological type and postsurgical staging. The patients were treated by either lobectomy or pneumonectomy; the lobectomy rate was similar in both groups: 61% and 51% (not significant). Hospital mortality for group 1 was 4.4% and for group 2, 6.9%. Mortality was higher in both groups after pneumonectomy compared with lobectomy, but this was not significant (group 1, 6.2% versus 1.9%; group 2, 9.1% versus 4.7%). Hospital mortality after pulmonary resection was greater in the elderly, but this was not significant (lobectomy: 1.9% [group 1] versus 4.7% [group 2]; pneumonectomy: 6.2% [group 1] versus 9.1% [group 2]. The overall long-term survival at 2 and 4 years was 62.3% and 50.0% for group 1 and 72.5% and 66.6% for group 2. We suggest that the operative risk in the elderly is not prohibitive and the long-term results are acceptable. Patients should not be denied operation on the basis of age alone. 
The treatment of small acoustic tumors: now or later? Prior to the advent of microneurosurgery, the operative mortality for acoustic tumor removal was high and management often consisted of observation until sufficient symptoms warranted removal. The treatment of these tumors has evolved, and recent introduction of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows the diagnosis of very small intracanalicular acoustic tumors before hearing has been significantly affected. For such tumors, some surgeons advocate the premicrosurgical philosophy of observation rather than removal. Our results of small acoustic tumor removal with attempt at hearing preservation were reviewed. From 1961 to June 1989, 39 acoustic tumors 0.5 cm or less were removed by the middle fossa approach. Measurable hearing was preserved in 67%, and facial function 1 year postoperatively was normal or nearly normal in 97%. There was no other permanent operative morbidity. Given our results, early surgical removal of small acoustic tumors is advocated. 
Subtotal parathyroidectomy for secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic renal failure. Twenty-seven patients on chronic haemodialysis and with secondary hyperparathyroidism underwent subtotal parathyroidectomy during the period 1985-1989. The operation was indicated by severe clinical symptoms and evidence of radiological abnormalities not responsive to conservative treatment (low phosphorus diet, phosphate binding substances, oral calcium and vitamin D). If despite intensive medical management, inadequate control of parathyroid hyperplasia continues surgical intervention becomes necessary. Ultra-sonography was performed pre-operatively in all 27 cases and detected 42 of 99 glands (42.5 per cent). Also scintigraphy was carried out in every patient but it gave a relatively low detection rate (24.5 per cent). Surgery was followed by improvement in 20 patients and progression of hyperparathyroidism in seven cases. Three of the seven patients failed to improve after subtotal parathyroidectomy, necessitating a re-intervention; the remaining four responded sufficiently to medical therapy. From our experience we conclude that subtotal parathyroidectomy for renal hyperparathyroidism is recommended. 
Telephone versus face-to-face mode for collecting self-reports of sequences of behavior. This study compared telephone vs face-to-face interviews as ways to collect self-reported sequences of daily activities. Twenty-seven persons with spinal cord injury in a rehabilitation hospital participated. The Self-Observation and Report Technique was used to obtain, in the participants' own words, two reports per week of 24-hour sequences of activities. One report per week was given over the telephone and one in person. Each behavior was coded for activity, assistance, companions, and locations. Nineteen measures assessing independence, level and diversity of activity, mobility, and social contacts were derived from the last four interviews for each participant. Differences in the measures derived from each mode were tested. Accuracy was assessed by comparing the self-reports to data on activities recorded by trained observers. Measures from the two modes did not differ, nor did the percent agreements with observation data. Investigators can use the more convenient and efficient telephone mode with confidence. 
Adjuvant therapy in early breast cancer. Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women. Screening mammography can detect cancer in its early stages, when it is potentially curable. Adjuvant chemotherapy is of major benefit in node-positive patients. It is also beneficial in certain node-negative patients with a high risk of breast cancer recurrence; these patients should be identified and offered adjuvant therapy or enrolled in a clinical trial. 
Surgical management of the conal (supracristal) ventricular septal defect. Surgical management of the conal (supracristal) ventricular septal defect differs significantly from the management of the perimembranous (infracristal) ventricular septal defect. The absence of a portion of the conal septum can lead to prolapse of the right cusp of the aortic valve, which predisposes these patients to aortic insufficiency. Between January 1980 and December 1989, 36 children with conal ventricular septal defect underwent intracardiac repair. Diagnosis was by echocardiography, cardiac catheterization, and intraoperative exploration. Preoperative evaluation showed that 26 patients (72%) had aortic valve prolapse and 16 (44%) had aortic insufficiency. Pulmonary-to-systemic flow ratios ranged from 1:1 to 3.5:1 (mean 2.0:1.0). Ten patients (27%) were believed to have clinical congestive heart failure. Age at the time of operation ranged from 2 weeks to 18 years (mean 5.5 years). Operative exposure was through the pulmonary artery (26), aorta (4), right ventricle (3), or right atrium (3). Simultaneous aortic valve suspension for aortic insufficiency was performed in four patients. Operative survival was 100%. Follow-up is complete in all patients and ranges from 0.5 to 9 years (mean 4.3 years). All patients are in normal sinus rhythm. No residual ventricular septal defects have been identified. Twenty-three of 36 patients (64%) have no evidence of aortic insufficiency; 12 of 36 (33%) have trivial or mild aortic insufficiency. One patient with initial severe aortic insufficiency underwent repeat aortic valvuloplasty 3 years after ventricular septal defect closure and aortic valve suspension. No patients have required aortic valve replacement. Surgical management of the conal ventricular septal defect differs from that of the perimembranous ventricular septal defect in two critical aspects. The operative approach should be through the pulmonary artery. This allows the best exposure of the remaining conal septum and the pulmonary and aortic valve leaflets, facilitating closure of the defect without injury to the valves or conduction system. Conal ventricular septal defects should undergo early closure, regardless of shunt volume, to prevent progressive aortic insufficiency. 
Treatment of cardiogenic shock with the Hemopump left ventricular assist device. A multiinstitutional study is in progress to evaluate the Hemopump in the treatment of cardiogenic shock. Fifty-three patients with refractory cardiogenic shock were selected for Hemopump assistance. The hemodynamic definition of cardiogenic shock included (1) a cardiac index of less than 2.0 L.min-1.m-2, (2) pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of greater than 18 mm Hg, and (3) a systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg or a left ventricular work index of less than 1,500 g-m.m-2.min-1. The Hemopump was successfully inserted in 41 of 53 patients (77.3%). A significant improvement in the hemodynamic status was seen during Hemopump assistance. A minimal level of hemolysis was observed. No leg ischemia was observed. The 30-day overall survival of the Hemopump group was 31.7%. Criteria establishing indications for use and clinical utility are proposed. We conclude that the Hemopump provides significant hemodynamic support of the patient in cardiogenic shock allowing for recovery from ventricular stunning in marginal ventricles, and that in select patients the Hemopump may offer a major improvement in survival over conventional therapy. 
Relation of symptoms to contractility and defect size in infants with ventricular septal defect. Forty-two infants with a ventricular septal defect (VSD) (21 asymptomatic and 21 symptomatic) were compared with 17 control infants to determine if symptoms of congestive heart failure (i.e., tachypnea/poor growth) were due to depressed contractility or defect size, or both. Echocardiographic indexes of defect size, left ventricular performance (shortening fraction), preload (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension), afterload (left ventricular end-systolic wall stress) and contractility (the relation between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress) were measured. Clinical assessment included measurement of weight and respiratory rate. Pulmonary and systemic blood flow were assessed in 17 symptomatic and 3 asymptomatic patients by cardiac catheterization. Although there was no significant difference in age, the symptomatic group had significantly lower weight (5.5 +/- 2.9 vs 7.3 +/- 2.3 kg, p less than 0.05) and a higher respiratory rate (53 +/- 14 vs 43 +/- 6 breaths/min, p less than 0.05), compared with control subjects. The mean pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio in the symptomatic group was 2.9:1. Preload indexed for body surface area was significantly higher in the groups with a VSD compared with control subjects (asymptomatic, 8.5 +/- 1.7 cm/m2; symptomatic, 9.1 +/- 1.7 cm/m2; control subjects, 6.8 +/- 1.1 cm/m2; p less than 0.05). Shortening fraction, afterload and contractility were not significantly different among all groups. A defect size greater than 0.5 cm (or defect size indexed for body surface area greater than 1.8 cm/m2) was predictive of the presence of symptoms. It is concluded that contractility is normal in infants with a VSD. Symptoms may be related to pulmonary congestion. 
Bladder outlet obstruction treated with transurethral ultrasonic aspiration. One-year follow-up on 59 patients. Fifty-nine males with bladder outlet obstruction were treated with transurethral ultrasonic aspiration of the prostate. Utilizing a 26.5F urethral sheath, surgery was accomplished with a 10F, 0-700-micron-vibration-level ultrasonic tip with an excursion rate of 39 kHz. Complete removal of the adenoma was accomplished followed by transurethral electrocautery biopsies of both lateral lobes to compare pathologic specimens. One year follow-up revealed satisfactory voiding patterns in 57 of 59 men (96%). Bladder neck contractures developed in 2 men. Pathologic comparisons showed 100 percent correlation between aspirated and TUR specimens (56 BPH, 3 adenocarcinoma). Forty-seven men were active sexually preoperatively (6 with inflatable penile prostheses). Post ultrasonic aspiration, 46 men had erectile function similar to preoperative levels with 1 patient suffering erectile dysfunction. Forty men (85%) had antegrade ejaculation while 7 (15%) experienced retrograde or retarded ejaculation. No patients were incontinent. 
Histopathology of childhood pneumonia in developing countries. Acute lower respiratory infection in children is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in developing countries. Viral and bacterial agents incite characteristic host responses at the level of the bronchi, bronchioles, alveolar walls, and air spaces that correlate with the clinical course. A systematic review of histopathologic features will enhance the understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms and cofactors that influence the disease process, particularly how tissue injury may be influenced by nutritional status and access to antibiotics. Research priorities include immunologic assessment, micronutrient assays, and standardized autopsies in developing countries. DNA probes for organisms and immunocytochemical identification of cell markers in tissue promise a new era in microscopic visualization of pathogen-host interactions. International collaborative research between ministries of public health and medical universities must be encouraged as a means of providing technical assistance and of advancing new knowledge. Systematic standardized autopsy studies from multiple geographic areas may help define pathologic mechanisms, monitor the natural history of disease, and evaluate interventions in diverse populations. 
Outcome of patients with acute myocardial infarction who are ineligible for thrombolytic therapy. OBJECTIVE: To determine what proportion of patients with acute myocardial infarction are not eligible for thrombolytic therapy and to assess their natural history. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review. SETTING: A large community-based hospital. PATIENTS: All patients with acute myocardial infarction hospitalized during a 27-month period. MEASUREMENTS: Of 1471 patients with acute myocardial infarction, 230 (16%) received thrombolytic therapy according to the protocol and an additional 97 (7%) received nonprotocol thrombolytic therapy, primary coronary balloon angioplasty, or both because of contraindications. The other 1144 patients (78%) did not receive reperfusion therapy. MAIN RESULTS: The patients who did not receive thrombolytic therapy were older, more likely to be women, and more likely to have a history of hypertension, previous myocardial infarction, or chronic angina (all comparisons, P less than 0.002). An average of 1.9 reasons for exclusion were identified per patient among the ineligible patients. Mortality was fivefold higher among ineligible patients (19%; Cl, 16% to 21%) than among protocol-treated patients (4%; Cl, 1% to 6%) (P less than 0.001). In-hospital mortality rates for excluded patients were 28% (Cl, 23% to 32%) in elderly patients (age, greater than 76 years; n = 396); 29% (Cl, 23% to 35%) in patients with stroke or bleeding risk (n = 209); 17% (Cl, 14% to 20%) in patients with delayed presentation (greater than 4 hours after the onset of chest pain; [n = 599]); 14% (Cl, 11% to 16%) in patients with an ineligible electrocardiogram (ECG) (n = 673); and 26% (Cl, 21% to 32%) in patients with a miscellaneous reason for exclusion (n = 243). Independent predictors of increased mortality were: age greater than 76 years, stroke or other bleeding risk, ineligible ECG, or the presence of two or more exclusion criteria. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombolytic therapy is currently used in the United States for only a minority of patients with acute myocardial infarction: those who have low-risk prognostic characteristics. 
Hypercarbic acidosis reduces cardiac resuscitability. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Marked increases in myocardial hypercarbia and acidosis accompany cardiac arrest and resuscitation. To investigate whether hypercarbic acidosis independent of oxygenation is of itself detrimental to cardiac resuscitation, three groups of six Sprague-Dawley rats were ventilated with gas mixtures containing concentrations of inspired CO2 (FICO2) of 0.0, 0.3, or 0.5, with oxygen fractions held constant at 0.5. After 4 mins of ventricular fibrillation, mechanical chest compressions were initiated with a pneumatic thumper; 2 mins later, transthoracic defibrillation was attempted. RESULTS: Each animal ventilated with FICO2 of 0.0 or 0.3 was successfully resuscitated. However, none of the animals ventilated with FICO2 of 0.5, in which aortic pH was less than 6.67 and aortic PCO2 was greater than 200 torr (greater than 26.7 kPa), was resuscitated (p less than .001). This finding contrasted with a second control group of seven identically treated animals which, in the absence of cardiac arrest, demonstrated no adverse effects after ventilation with an FICO2 of 0.5. CONCLUSIONS: Increases in FICO2 to levels of 0.5 under conditions of constant arterial oxygenation and controlled coronary perfusion pressure preclude successful resuscitation in this rodent model of CPR. 
Human papillomavirus type 16 DNA in anal cancers from six different countries. An association between anal squamous cell carcinoma and human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 DNA has been documented in the UK. If HPV type 16 is an important aetiological factor in the development of this tumour it would be expected to occur in anal cancer tissues from other parts of the world. In this study a series of 173 anal squamous cell carcinoma tissue samples from five centres around the world have been examined by DNA hybridisation for HPV type 16 DNA sequences. HPV type 16 DNA was found in 50 of 173 (29%) of these. The prevalence of HPV associated anal squamous cell carcinoma was significantly lower in tissue from India and South Africa than in the Swiss, Polish, or Brazilian samples. HPV associated anal squamous cell carcinoma does occur in other countries and further investigations of the prevalence of these tumours in association with other HPV types are required. 
An extensive experience with postoperative pain relief using postoperative fentanyl infusion. From October 1, 1987 through December 31, 1989, 517 patients who were undergoing both thoracic and abdominal surgical procedures were treated for postoperative pain with epidural fentanyl citrate infusion under the direction of an anesthesia pain service. Infusion rates of 4 micrograms/mL of solution were essentially the same for all subjects. Sixty-five percent of patients experienced superior pain control without the use of adjunctive analgesia. Twenty-eight percent of subjects achieved satisfactory pain control but required additional low-dose analgesics. Only 7% of patients remained uncomfortable despite additional intravenous narcotic administration. There were no deaths or respiratory arrests. Six percent of patients experienced nausea, and 0.8% of the cohort required catheterization for urinary retention. This technique of postoperative pain control was safe and provided excellent results. Catheter position was a major determinant of the efficacy of the method. 
Adenovirus-mediated transfer of a recombinant alpha 1-antitrypsin gene to the lung epithelium in vivo The respiratory epithelium is a potential site for somatic gene therapy for the common hereditary disorders alpha 1-antitrypsin (alpha 1AT) deficiency and cystic fibrosis. A replication-deficient adenoviral vector (Ad-alpha 1AT) containing an adenovirus major late promoter and a recombinant human alpha 1AT gene was used to infect epithelial cells of the cotton rat respiratory tract in vitro and in vivo. Freshly isolated tracheobronchial epithelial cells infected with Ad-alpha 1AT contained human alpha 1AT messenger RNA transcripts and synthesized and secreted human alpha 1AT. After in vivo intratracheal administration of Ad-alpha 1AT to these rats, human alpha 1AT messenger RNA was observed in the respiratory epithelium, human alpha 1AT was synthesized and secreted by lung tissue, and human alpha 1AT was detected in the epithelial lining fluid for at least 1 week. 
Silent ischemia and severity of pain in acute myocardial infarction. An overall low tendency to complain of pain, due to a low perception of pain, has been suggested in the pathogenesis of silent ischemia, independent of the extent of the diseased coronaries and a history of previous acute myocardial infarction. This hypothesis has been tested indirectly in this retrospective study by comparison of the use of analgesics during admission for a first acute myocardial infarction with the occurrence of silent ischemia at exertion tests four weeks after discharge from hospital. The study did not show a lower use of analgesics in patients with silent ischemia, but this may be due to methodologic problems. Suggestions are given for another study design to overcome these problems. 
Corneal choristoma with microphthalmos. We report two rare cases of corneal choristoma with microphthalmos. In both cases, the whole thickness of the cornea, as well as the anterior chamber and iris, was replaced by cutaneous and subcutaneous tissue. In case 1, diagnosed as dermoid choristoma, the cutaneous tissue contained skin appendages and subcutaneous fibrofatty tissue extended into the vitreous cavity. The fibrous mass in the cavity contained fragments of retina. In case 2, diagnosed as a dermislike choristoma, the cutaneous tissue lacked skin appendages. These choristomatous cutaneous tissues hindered normal growth of ocular structures, resulting in microphthalmos. Use of computed tomography was helpful in evaluating the extent of ocular tissue involvement and accompanying intraocular malformations. 
Radiation-induced meningiomas: experience at the Mount Sinai Hospital and review of the literature. From the records of The Mount Sinai Hospital, seven cases which met established criteria for radiation-induced meningiomas were identified. This represents the largest series of radiogenic meningiomas documented in North America and includes both intracranial and intraspinal tumors. The records and pathological specimens were reviewed and these data analyzed with other cases retrieved from the world literature. This study reveals that radiation-induced meningiomas can be categorized into three groups based on the amount of radiation administered: 1) low dose; 2) moderate dose and miscellaneous; and 3) high dose. The overwhelming majority of cases had received low-dose irradiation (800 rad) to the scalp for tinea capitis and the second largest group resulted from high-dose irradiation for primary brain tumors (greater than 2000 rad). The unique features distinguishing radiation-induced meningiomas from other meningiomas are reviewed. Although histologically atypical tumors were common in this series, overt malignancy was not encountered. The preoperative management of these lesions should include angiography to evaluate for large-vessel occlusive vasculopathy, a known association of meningiomas induced by high-dose irradiation. Given the propensity these tumors possess for recurrence, a wide bony and dural margin is recommended at surgical resection. 
Radical prostatectomy for stage A adenocarcinoma of the prostate: staging errors and their implications for treatment recommendations and disease outcome. Of 148 patients with clinical stage A1 (32) or A2 (116) disease who had radical prostatectomy only 63% and 62%, respectively, had pathological stage A disease. Although 25% of those with clinical stage A1 and 9% of those with clinical stage A2 disease had no cancer at radical prostatectomy, 12% and 29%, respectively, had pathological stage C disease or higher. Clinical Mayo grade 1 was never associated with extracapsular disease but 60% of those with grade 3 or higher tumor did have extracapsular disease. Over-all survival was comparable to the expected survival. Clinical stage A2 cancer was associated with a significantly higher progression rate (when prostate specific antigen values were considered, p = 0.0011) and cancer death rate (p less than 0.045) than stage A1 disease, whereas pathological stage was not significantly related to disease outcome, possibly because of the use of adjuvant treatment (hormonal or radiation) for some patients with pathological stage C or higher disease. The vagaries of clinical staging associated with stage A disease, as well as the previously documented progression on long-term followup (8 to 10 years) in younger (60 years old or less) patients with stage A1 prostate cancer make radical prostatectomy with its limited morbidity an acceptable treatment choice. 
Morphine compared with diamorphine. A comparison of dose requirements and side-effects after hip surgery. The dose requirements and side effects of morphine were compared with those of diamorphine administered by patient-controlled analgesia in 40 patients following elective total hip replacement. Patients were allocated randomly to receive in a double-blind manner either morphine or diamorphine for postoperative pain relief. There were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to postoperative sedation, nausea, well-being, pain relief and requirements for antiemetic drugs. The dose requirement for diamorphine was approximately 50% of that for morphine. 
The Foot Function Index: a measure of foot pain and disability. A Foot Function Index (FFI) was developed to measure the impact of foot pathology on function in terms of pain, disability and activity restriction. The FFI is a self-administered index consisting of 23 items divided into 3 sub-scales. Both total and sub-scale scores are produced. The FFI was examined for test-retest reliability, internal consistency, and construct and criterion validity. A total of 87 patients with rheumatoid arthritis were used in the study. Test-retest reliability of the FFI total and sub-scale scores ranged from 0.87 to 0.69. Internal consistency ranged from 0.96 to 0.73. With the exception of two items, factor analysis supported the construct validity of the total index and the sub-scales. Strong correlation between the FFI total and sub-scale scores and clinical measures of foot pathology supported the criterion validity of the index. The FFI should prove useful for both clinical and research purposes. 
Role of hepatitis C virus in non-B chronic liver disease. To assess the contribution of the recently identified hepatitis C virus to chronic liver diseases of unknown cause and chronic hepatitis attributed by exclusion to non-A, non-B hepatitis, we tested for antibody to hepatitis C in hepatitis B surface antigen-negative patients with a spectrum of chronic liver diseases. Antibody to hepatitis C virus, a marker of hepatitis C infection, was detected with a first-generation radioimmunoassay at the following frequencies in the following patient groups: 69% of transfusion-associated non-A, non-B hepatitis; 53% of non-transfusion-associated non-A, non-B hepatitis; 26% of hepatitis B surface antigen-negative hepatocellular carcinoma; 8% of cryptogenic cirrhosis; 5% to 7% of autoimmune chronic liver diseases; 19% of patients with miscellaneous types of chronic liver disease; and 0.67% of healthy controls. Among non-transfusion-associated cases, 81% with a history of intravenous drug use but only 18% with occupational exposure as health workers had antibody to hepatitis C virus. Among cases of hepatocellular carcinoma, 63% of Japanese patients but only 11% of American patients had evidence of hepatitis C infection. Comparison in a subgroup of 79 serum samples of a second-generation radioimmunoassay with the first-generation assay demonstrated a 12% increase in antibody frequency from 30% to 42%. We conclude that hepatitis C plays a substantial role in transfusion-associated and non-transfusion-associated non-A, non-B hepatitis as well as in hepatocellular carcinoma, especially in Japan, a limited role in cryptogenic cirrhosis, and essentially no role in autoimmune chronic liver diseases. Application of more sensitive immunoassays will increase the frequency of antibody seropositivity in all subgroups, but relative distinctions among risk groups are likely to remain. 
Percutaneous ethanol injection therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma. A histopathologic study. Histopathologic examination was done on 18 cases after percutaneous ethanol injection therapy (PEIT) for hepatocellular carcinoma. In eight cases, the lesion was treated by PEIT alone; in the other ten cases, PEIT was combined with transcatheter arterial embolization. The lesion was completely necrotic in 13 cases, 90% necrotic in four cases, and 70% necrotic in the rest. In addition, PEIT seemed to be effective against intercapsular, extracapsular, and vascular invasions. In the four cases of incomplete necrosis, the viable cancer tissue remained in small tumor nodules around the main tumor, in portions isolated by septa, or along the edge of the lesion. Therefore, ethanol should be injected not only into the center of the lesion, but also into sites close to its edge. Ethanol did not damage noncancerous liver parenchyma distant from injected sites. Local dissemination of the cancer cells was not found in any case. Therefore, PEIT seems to be a valuable therapy and may be an alternative to surgery in some cases. 
Contact-tip Nd:YAG laser applications: squamous nasal papillomatosis. Concurrent use of nasal endoscopes and the contact-tip Nd:YAG laser provides the necessary visualization and control for treating a widespread condition such as nasal papillomatosis. This laser should decrease the likelihood of spread to other sites within the patient's upper respiratory tract or to attending health care personnel. 
Pressure-diameter relationships of the upper airway in awake supine subjects. In awake supine normal subjects, dimensional changes of the oropharyngeal airway were measured during exposure to negative intraluminal pressures. The pressure was generated 1) "actively" by subjects inspiring against an externally occluded airway or 2) "passively" by external suction at the mouth during voluntary glottic closure with no inspiratory effort. Airway dimensions were imaged with X-ray fluoroscopy and anteroposterior diameters measured at levels corresponding to cervical vertebra 3 and 4 (C3 and C4). Cephalad axial displacement of the hyoid bone (CDHY) was also measured. During the "active" maneuver, airway diameters and position were maintained at resting levels despite airway pressure up to -15 cmH2O. In contrast, during the passive maneuver at -15 cmH2O, C3 was only 15 +/- 9% and C4 only 47 +/- 8% of control; CDHY was 5.6 +/- 1.8 mm. In three subjects airway wall apposition occurred and persisted until an active inspiratory effort. We conclude that, in the absence of inspiratory effort, negative oropharyngeal airway pressures result in marked narrowing and cephalad displacement of the upper airway, even during wakefulness. Therefore, our data suggest that the complex interaction of upper airway and thoracic muscle activity is critical in determining the effective compliance and patency of the upper airway, which is readily collapsible even in normal subjects. 
Human immunodeficiency virus induction of malignant transformation in human B lymphocytes. Aggressive B-cell lymphomas are occurring with increasing incidence among individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Several lines of evidence implicate both Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and c-myc activation in the pathogenesis of a major subset of these tumors. These observations prompted our investigation of interactions among EBV, c-myc, and HIV in primary B cells. We show that nonimmortalized peripheral B lymphocytes from EBV-seropositive, HIV-seronegative donors can be infected by HIV and that a subset of these lymphocytes become transformed. Malignant transformation was documented by several criteria. These cells displayed altered growth properties, propagating in 1% serum and cloning in soft agar, and formed invasive tumors of Burkitt lymphoma phenotype after subcutaneous injection into severe combined immunodeficiency mice. Such cells revealed marked enhancement of EBV DNA and RNA and of endogenous c-myc transcripts and protein. HIV-1 infection of already immortalized B-cell lines led to a similar upregulation of EBV and c-myc transcripts. These data indicate that HIV has properties of a transforming retrovirus, as it mediates two events linked to B-cell neoplasia: deregulation of c-myc and activation of EBV. They also raise the possibility of a role for HIV, apart from induction of immune suppression, in the pathogenesis of B-cell lymphoma in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
Hepatitis C in patients undergoing liver transplantation. OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of antibodies to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) among patients undergoing liver transplantation and the relation between anti-HCV and post-transplant hepatitis. DESIGN: Retrospective cohort. PATIENTS: Serum samples from 128 patients who underwent liver transplantation. Sixty-six patients who had 6 months of follow-up and for whom both pretransplant and post-transplant serum samples were available were included in a study to asses the relation between anti-HCV and post-transplant hepatitis. MEASUREMENTS: Sera were tested for anti-HCV using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and, if positive, two confirmatory tests were done. Patients had a biopsy every week until two specimens showed no abnormal findings. MAIN RESULTS: Only patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis (15 of 30; 50%), alcoholic cirrhosis (7 of 19; 37%), and chronic hepatitis B infection (3 of 11; 27%) were anti-HCV positive. No patient with another form of chronic liver disease or with acute liver failure due to non-A, non-B hepatitis was anti-HCV positive. After transplantation, loss of anti-HCV was frequent and acquisition rare. Hepatitis developed in the graft in 17% of patients, but the incidence was similar among anti-HCV negative and anti-HCV-positive patients. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatitis C virus is a common cause of chronic liver disease in patients requiring liver transplantation, but anti-HCV is rarely found in patients with acute liver failure. Previous HCV infection, based on detection of anti-HCV, is not an independent risk factor for post-transplant hepatitis. 
Microscopic activity in ulcerative colitis: what does it mean? To determine the prognostic importance of microscopic rectal inflammation we followed up 82 patients (aged 21 to 78 years, 44 men) with chronic quiescent ulcerative colitis over 12 months. At trial entry each patient underwent a rectal biopsy and sections were graded independently by two histopathologists. A chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate of varying severity was present in all biopsy specimens, and 58% had crypt architectural irregularities. In addition, 32% had evidence of acute inflammatory activity: 28% acute inflammatory cell infiltrate, 11% crypt abscesses, and 22% mucin depletion. Agreement between the two histopathologists for the presence of each of these features was 94% (90-98%). During the 12 month follow up 27 patients (33%) relapsed after a mean interval of 18 weeks (range 3-44 weeks). Relapse rates were unrelated to duration or extent of disease or to the type of maintenance drug treatment. In patients with an acute inflammatory cell infiltrate 52% relapsed, whereas in the absence of such an infiltrate only 25% relapsed (p = 0.02). Similarly, relapse rates were higher in the presence of crypt abscesses (78% v 27%, p less than 0.005), mucin depletion (56% v p less than 0.02), and breaches in the surface epithelium (75% v 31%, p = 0.1). The presence of a chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate or crypt architectural irregularities, however, bore no relation to the frequency of colitis relapse. 
Mechanisms of disease in Hantavirus infection: pathophysiology of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome. Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is an acute viral disease that occurs over wide areas of Europe and Asia. Hantaviruses are the cause of this syndrome. The hallmark of HFRS is the triad of fever, hemorrhage, and renal failure. In its severe form it is associated with significant mortality. The syndrome evolves through five phases: febrile, hypotensive, oliguric, diuretic, and convalescent. The central physiologic derangement in HFRS is vascular dysfunction, manifested by impaired vascular tone and increased vascular permeability. The systemic effects of this dysfunction account for the occurrence of hypotension and shock, while local effects are probably important in the development of renal failure. Shock in HFRS has distributive and oligemic features, while renal failure has features of acute tubular necrosis. Hemorrhage is a consequence of vascular injury and a deficit of functional platelets. Vascular and platelet dysfunction are both compounded by uremia. Disseminated intravascular coagulation contributes to hemorrhage in some patients. Although hantaviruses are infectious for endothelial cells and may cause direct injury, a large body of evidence suggests that immune mechanisms play an important role in the pathogenesis of HFRS. 
Prognostic factors of alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma in childhood. An International Society of Pediatric Oncology study. Pretreatment characteristics of 57 patients with alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) registered by the International Society of Pediatric Oncology (SIOP) between January 1975 and December 1983 were identified to perform a prognostic factor study. Living status and disease-free survival (DFS) time were assessed for all patients on January 1, 1988. By multi-variate analyses, lymph node involvement (P = 0.0003) and tumor invasiveness (P = 0.007) were identified as the most significant covariates correlated with survival. A model including N stage (P = 0.001) and age (P = 0.03) was selected for predicting DFS rates. Children between 5 and 10 years of age had better DFS rates than those younger than 5 years of age or those older than 10 years of age. The authors suggest a prognostic classification that could allow treatment to be adjusted according to clinical staging. 
Blood pressure during sleep: antihypertensive medication. To investigate whether excessive reduction of blood pressure (BP) by antihypertensive medications correlates with myocardial infarction, especially during sleep in elderly patients, we used telemetry and cuvette dye-dilution methods to assess the direct BP and the hemodynamics of 68 inpatients with essential hypertension during wakefulness and sleep. There were 25 patients greater than or equal to 60 years old (OH-group) and 43 were less than or equal to 59 years old (YH-group). Of the OH-group, 36% showed high BP during the day, with marked decreases (minimum BP less than 110/70 mm Hg) during sleep. Average cardiac index (CI) of the OH-group was low during wakefulness and extremely low during slow-wave sleep. Changes of mean BP in the OH-group correlated with changes in total peripheral vascular resistance index (TPRI) during sleep, but this correlation was not observed in the YH-group. The antihypertensive effects on nocturnal BP of the various medications was: central adrenergic inhibitors less than or equal to beta blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity less than or equal to alpha (alpha beta) blockers less than or equal to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors less than or equal to calcium antagonists. Because BP and CI were found to be very low and TPRI seems to play an important role in BP regulation in sleeping elderly patients, excessive antihypertensive medication may be harmful to this subgroup. However, because the effects on nocturnal BP differ among various antihypertensive treatments, further research is required on the relation between antihypertensive medication and the hemodynamics of sleeping elderly hypertensive patients. 
Changes in hepatic haemodynamics and hepatic perfusion index during the growth and development of hypovascular HSN sarcoma in rats. Experimental liver tumours were induced in the Hooded Lister rat by the intraportal inoculation of 10(6) HSN sarcoma cells. The hepatic perfusion index was raised 10 days after the inoculation of cells (at the micrometastatic stage) and when overt tumour was present 20 days after inoculation. Overt tumours were hypovascular compared with normal liver. Portal venous flow and portal venous inflow fell significantly when the hepatic perfusion index was increased, but hepatic arterial flow did not alter. Portal vascular resistance and splanchnic vascular resistance were both increased in tumour-bearing animals but portal pressure, arteriosystemic shunting and portosystemic shunting did not increase significantly at any stage during the growth of hepatic tumour. These findings confirm that the hepatic perfusion index can be elevated in the presence of both micrometastic and overt hepatic tumour and that the changes are not due to either arteriosystemic shunting or mechanical portal venous obstruction. 
Gliomatosis peritonei with malignant transformation: a case report and review of the literature. Gliomatosis peritonei is the implantation of glial tissue within the peritoneal cavity associated with ovarian teratomas. Previous reports have emphasized improved outcomes when these implants are found to be mature, even if the ovarian component is immature. A 16-year-old female with grade 3 immature teratoma was found on two subsequent laparotomies to have extensive peritoneal implantation of mature glial tissue. More than 5 years after the original surgery she was found to have a malignant abdominal glial neoplasm. This case illustrates a rare finding of malignant transformation of previously mature gliomatosis peritonei. 
Limited benefit of atropine as premedication for colonoscopy. A prospective double-blind trial was performed comparing atropine (0.5 mg) by slow intravenous administration to placebo as premedication for colonoscopy, to assess the possible beneficial effects of this vagolytic agent on the performance and safety of the procedure. A total of 77 patients was randomly assigned to receive atropine (38 patients) or placebo (39 patients) before colonoscopy in conjunction with our standard initial medications for conscious sedation (meperidine, 0.4 mg/kg and midazolam, 0.03 mg/kg). Total procedure time was 31 min for the atropine group and 35 min for the placebo group (p greater than 0.05), and there was no overall difference in the total amount of intra-procedural medications required. No statistically significant differences were observed relative to the number or severity of vagal episodes, and neither the endoscopist nor the patients noted any differences in the ease or tolerance of the procedure (p greater than 0.05). Although these results fail to demonstrate a significant benefit of atropine when given routinely as premedication for colonoscopy, this study does not rule out the potential usefulness of atropine in counteracting vagal episodes when they occur. 
Effects of cytokine combinations on acute phase protein production in two human hepatoma cell lines. We evaluated the effects of binary combinations of four cytokines on production of the positive acute phase proteins alpha-1 antichymotrypsin, haptoglobin and fibrinogen, and the negative acute phase proteins albumin and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in two human hepatoma cell lines. The effects of the cytokine combinations on the five proteins varied; each protein exhibited a unique and specific pattern of response to the cytokine combinations. In Hep G2 cells, antichymotrypsin was induced by all four cytokines, IL-6, IL-1, TNF-alpha, and transforming growth factor beta 1 alone, and their effects in binary combinations could be attributed to additive or minimally synergistic interactions. Fibrinogen was induced only by IL-6 and this induction was inhibited by IL-1 alpha, TNF-alpha or transforming growth factor beta 1. Haptoglobin was also induced only by IL-6, but TNF-alpha was the only cytokine that inhibited this induction at all concentrations of IL-6. Each of the four cytokines alone down regulated production of AFP and albumin. However, binary combinations of the four cytokines were simply additive, for the most part, in inhibiting AFP production, whereas the inhibitory effects of combinations of cytokines on albumin production differed significantly from simple additive effects. These observations, taken together with studies of effects of cytokine combinations on other acute phase proteins, indicate that the various acute phase proteins respond differently to different combinations of cytokines and that the potential exists for highly specific regulation of synthesis of individual plasma proteins by cytokine interactions. These findings imply that the acute phase response in vivo represents the integrated sum of multiple, separately regulated changes in gene expression. 
Anal tonometry: a quick method of anal manometry. Evaluation of anal sphincter tonic activity is important in the proctologic clinic. However, manometric techniques are expensive, complex, and only available in some centers. Because there is often an in-office need for having objective measurements of anal tonic activity, in our clinic we introduced a simple method for measurement of anal pressures. This method is based on the flow of air in an open circuit by using a rubber probe with a side opening at one end. Pressure is assessed by an ordinary manometric gauge for arterial pressure. With this simple instrument, the following parameters are measured: 1) anal resting pressure, 2) squeeze pressure, 3) functional length of the anal canal, and 4) descent of the perineum on staining. After testing the technique in 100 healthy persons, it was applied to 130 patients with several proctologic disorders. Differences in pressures were found between controls and patients with anal fissure (high resting pressures), and patients with anal incontinence (low resting and/or squeeze pressures). A correlation was also found between the descending perineum measured by this method and by defecography. This simple instrument is useful in the office as the first approach to the function of the anal sphincters and the pelvic floor. Nowadays, so-called anal tonometry is part of the proctologic examination in our department, because it is simple, reliable, and takes only a few minutes. 
Verification of a new clinicopathologic staging system for colorectal adenocarcinoma. Rectal adenocarcinoma is said to have a poorer outcome than colon adenocarcinoma when compared on the basis of Dukes' staging. However a new staging system, determined by a multivariate analysis of 147 patients with rectal adenocarcinoma, has revealed three other variables significantly related to outcome. Therefore this study analyzed the authors' experience with colonic carcinoma during the same time period as they had studied for rectal carcinoma to determine whether the new staging system is valid for colon carcinoma as well, and, if so, to compare the outcome of patients with colon and rectal carcinoma on the basis of this new staging. A total of 603 patients with 611 colonic adenocarcinoma were operated on at the University of Chicago Medical Center between 1965 and 1981. Two hundred seventy-nine adenocarcinomas (45.7%) were located proximal to the splenic flexure and 332 (54.3%) were located between the splenic flexure and the rectosigmoid. Four hundred sixty-two patients underwent segmental colectomy, 46 subtotal colectomy, 26 total colectomy, 18 proctocolectomy, 5 abdominal-perineal resection, 1 appendectomy, while 20 had local excision of the tumor through colotomy and 25 had permanent diverting stoma as the only procedure. The operative mortality rate was 6.1% in the whole group, but was only 2.7% in the group of potentially curable patients. Complete follow-up was obtained in all patients. To validate a previous staging system for Dukes' B and C rectal adenocarcinoma, the authors investigated the correlation between 5-year survival for colonic carcinoma patients and all relevant variables that they had considered potentially meaningful in the previous study with rectal adenocarcinoma. The resulting multivariate analysis using Cox regression showed that the four variables found previously to be significantly related to outcome for rectal adenocarcinoma patients (stage, race, tumor morphology, and vascular and/or lymphatic microinvasion) were the only four variables significantly (p less than 0.05) associated with outcome for colonic adenocarcinoma patients. In addition, by using the results of their previous staging system for rectal adenocarcinoma patients, they 'predicted' the 5-year survival rates of the colon adenocarcinoma patients, divided in 16 staging subgroups. In subgroups of at least 15 patients, the rectal staging system predicted the outcome to within 1 to 6 percentage points of the observed outcome of the colonic adenocarcinoma patients. Thus this study validates this staging system, incorporating stage, race, tumor morphology, and microinvasion to predict 5-year survival rate more accurately than Dukes' staging alone for both colon and rectal adenocarcinoma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Acute twin-twin transfusion: a possible mechanism for brain-damaged survivors after intrauterine death of a monochorionic twin. Intrauterine death of one twin in monochorionic pregnancies is associated with increased mortality and morbidity for the survivor. This has been attributed to the consequences of intrauterine disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) initiated by the dead twin. We describe a case in which the fetal cerebral and renal lesions typically found in survivors occurred without any derangement in coagulation. Instead, acute twin-twin transfusion was suggested by the presence of severe anemia in the surviving fetus at delivery. We suggest that the lesions frequently found in the survivors are often due to acute hemodynamic and ischemic changes resulting from acute twin-twin transfusion at the time of intrauterine death, rather than to late-onset DIC. This hypothesis has an important implication for future management: Intervention must occur before intrauterine death if neurologic sequelae in the survivor are to be prevented. 
A critical review of the relationship between impaired fibrinolysis and myocardial infarction. To explore the relationship between impaired fibrinolysis and myocardial infarction, we conducted a literature search and reviewed the published data. The results indicate that myocardial infarction has a significant influence on fibrinolytic activity and that impaired fibrinolysis is more frequent in patients who have had a myocardial infarction than in healthy control subjects. Prospective cohort studies indicate that tests for global fibrinolytic activity are not of prognostic value for first or recurrent myocardial infarction. However, high levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor and low levels of tissue plasminogen activator activity were associated with an increased risk of reinfarction in survivors of a first myocardial infarction. Whether this relationship between impaired fibrinolysis and reinfarction is causal or coincidental is unclear. There is evidence that impairment of fibrinolytic activity is more marked in patients with myocardial infarction who have minimal coronary atherosclerosis than in those who have marked atherosclerosis, suggesting that impaired fibrinolytic activity might be of pathogenetic importance in this small subgroup of patients. 
Phosphorus metabolites in the human placenta estimated in vivo by magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Normal human placental metabolism has been studied in vivo by image localised 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy in 13 women with anterior placentas; five, however, were too fat for useful spectral signals to be obtained. Magnetic resonance spectra of good quality which were considered to have arisen from the placenta were obtained from seven women with uncomplicated pregnancies (median gestational age 35 weeks, range 28-39). One other woman had a twin pregnancy in which one fetus had died a few days before. The phosphodiester signal from the placenta of the dead fetus was outside the 95% confidence intervals for normal placentas, suggesting that this technique may potentially be useful in the assessment of placental function. 
Caffeine clearance by enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique: a simple, inexpensive, and useful indicator of liver function. The clinical value and sensitivity of serum caffeine clearance measurement has been evaluated as an indicator of hepatic disease. After a 17 hour caffeine exclusion period, 300 mg of caffeine citrate was administered orally to the study subjects. Serum samples were taken four and 16 hours later. Serum caffeine concentrations were measured using an enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique (EMIT) and a clearance value derived. Conventional liver function tests were measured at the same time. A total of 103 subjects attending the medical unit in a district general hospital were studied. Twenty one had alcoholic liver disease, 11 non-alcoholic cirrhosis, nine non-cirrhotic liver disease, 21 suspected liver disease, six hepatic tumours, and 35 were hospital and normal control subjects. Caffeine clearance values were lowest in subjects with alcoholic liver disease (median 0.19 ml/min/kg, range 0.04-0.61 ml/min/kg) and significantly reduced in all subjects with liver disease (median 0.32 ml/min/kg, range 0.04-2.68 ml/min/kg) compared with control subjects (median 1.27 ml/min/kg, p less than 0.001). In subjects with suspected liver disease subsequently shown to have another explanation for abnormal liver function test results, caffeine clearance values were normal (median 1.31 ml/min/kg, range 0.23-2.64 ml/min/kg) and significantly different, p less than 0.001, from those of subjects with liver disease. Serum albumen values were not different for these latter two groups. Using a cut off value of 0.86 ml/min/kg, caffeine clearance measurement was 100% sensitive for alcoholic liver disease and 89% sensitive for all liver disease. The respective sensitivities for conventional liver function test measurement were 76% and 83%. In the suspected liver disease group, caffeine clearance was abnormal in only 24%, conventional liver function tests were abnormal in 95%. 
Efficacy of multiple balloon aortic valvuloplasty procedures. The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry Investigators. To determine the efficacy of a second balloon aortic valvuloplasty procedure in comparison with the original procedure, 47 patients (18 men, 29 women; mean age 77 +/- 10 years) who underwent two balloon aortic valvuloplasty procedures over a mean interval of 6.4 months between procedures (range 2 days to 15 months) were retrospectively examined. The mean pressure gradient across the aortic valve was significantly higher before the first than before the second valvuloplasty procedure (62 +/- 21 vs. 53 +/- 21 mm Hg; p less than 0.05) and after the first compared with after the second procedure (32 +/- 13 vs. 28 +/- 14 mm Hg; p less than 0.05). The cardiac output and stroke volume after the first procedure were significantly greater than the values for these variables after the second procedure (4.4 +/- 1.1 vs. 3.8 +/- 1.1 liters/min; p less than 0.05; and 54 +/- 17 vs. 47 +/- 15 ml/beat; p less than 0.05, respectively). There were no significant differences in the change observed in any variable between the first and second procedures. At a mean follow-up interval of 5.3 months (range 6 days to 15 months) after the second procedure 18 (38%) of the 47 patients had died, 12 (25%) required surgical valve replacement and 4 (8%) required a third valvuloplasty procedure. Overall, 31 (66%) of 47 patients met clinical failure end points after the second procedure. Three patients had two failure end points. The 47 patients were divided into two groups on the basis of the interval between valvuloplasty procedures. 
In situ hybridization analysis of human papillomavirus DNA in oral mucosal lesions. Commercial biotinylated DNA probes specific for human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6 and 11; 16 and 18; and 31, 33, and 35 were used for in situ hybridization analysis of 105 oral mucosal specimens from 5 cases of verruca vulgaris, 15 cases of condyloma acuminatum, 30 cases of squamous papilloma, 20 cases of hyperkeratosis/acanthosis, 15 cases of epithelial dysplasia, 5 cases of carcinoma in situ, and 15 cases of squamous cell carcinoma. Positive hybridization signals were found in 26 specimens (24.8%). Only HPV-6/11 was detected. HPV DNA occurred significantly more often (p less than 0.005, chi-square analysis) in condyloma acuminatum (100%) and verruca vulgaris (100%) than squamous papilloma (13.3%), hyperkeratotic/acanthotic lesions (10%), and malignant and premalignant lesions (0%). The tongue (19.1%) and labial epithelium (17.1%) were infected most frequently. Nuclear reaction products indicating HPV infection were associated primarily with koilocytes. These results demonstrate the usefulness of commercial biotinylated probes for HPV DNA analysis in routine paraffin-embedded lesion specimens. They confirm HPV involvement in benign lesions of the oral mucosa but fail to associate HPV infection with oral cancer and precancer. 
Unusual presentation of cutaneous metastatic malignant melanoma. This report describes an unusual presentation of cutaneous metastases suspected to have occurred through lymphatic spread in a patient with malignant melanoma. Punctate papular skin lesions correlated histologically with small tumor foci in the papillary dermis. 
Nocturnal nasal ventilation for treatment of patients with hypercapnic respiratory failure. We reviewed the Mayo Clinic experience with nocturnal nasal ventilation (NNV) and retrospectively assessed the clinical benefits, patient compliance, and complications. NNV had been instituted in 26 patients with daytime hypercapnia and nocturnal hypoventilation due to neuromuscular diseases or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. After initiation of NNV, 21 of 26 patients continued to use this treatment regularly (81% compliance rate) and considered their life-style improved. In this subset of patients, the arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide during unassisted breathing decreased from 64 +/- 13 to 51 +/- 7 mm Hg, and the arterial partial pressure of oxygen increased from 58 +/- 12 to 68 +/- 8 mm Hg. No significant change was noted in the forced vital capacity or maximal respiratory pressures. Four of the five patients in whom NNV had been discontinued cited discomfort related to the mask or severity and poor prognosis of the underlying illness as reasons for cessation of treatment. We conclude that NNV is well tolerated by most patients and may improve alveolar ventilation and arterial oxygenation in patients with chronic respiratory failure. 
Histologic characteristics of carotid artery plaque. Carotid plaque characteristics associated with the production of symptoms were identified with quantification of carotid plaque constituents in high-grade stenotic asymptomatic (n = 8) and symptomatic (n = 44) plaques. Asymptomatic plaques contained significantly more fibrous/collagen material (88%) than symptomatic plaques (66%) (p less than 0.05). Hemorrhage constituted 2% and 1% of asymptomatic and symptomatic plaques, respectively. The predominant nonfibrous material was a pink amorphous material mixed with cholesterol, which composed 7% of asymptomatic and 27% of symptomatic plaques (p less than 0.05). No relationship was found between plaque composition and the number of ipsilateral ischemic neurologic events, nor was there evidence of a healing process. B-mode ultrasound scanning had a sensitivity of 94% in identifying plaque with greater than 80% fibrous content. We believe that plaque composition may be a useful discriminating factor in selecting asymptomatic patients for carotid endarterectomy. 
Mitral valve replacement in idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. Idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome is an eosinophil-mediated tissue injury causing multiple organ failure. Cardiac manifestations include subendocardial fibrosis, thrombus leading to peripheral emboli, restrictive cardiomyopathy, and valvar dysfunction. This article describes a patient with the syndrome and reviews surgical experience with valve replacement and long-term prognosis. 
Current practices for treatment of dysentery in rural Bangladesh. A rural area of Bangladesh with a population of 191,000 had 643 health care providers, of whom 324 (50%) practiced allopathic (Western) medicine, 152 (24%) were spiritualists, 109 (17%) were herbalists, and 58 (9%) were homeopaths. Two hundred eight (64%) of the allopaths had no formal training, and only 18 (6%) were graduates of medical school. In a community-based study of 480 children with bloody diarrhea and 480 children with nonbloody diarrhea, allopathic treatment was the most common care provided. Furazolidone and metronidazole were the two most commonly prescribed drugs, given to 26% and 23% of children, respectively, who were seen by a practitioner. Only 25% of children had received oral rehydration therapy. We conclude that in this region of Bangladesh care of acute diarrhea is provided mostly by private medical practitioners who have little or no training; that such care currently is largely irrational; and that the provision of rational care will require the development of simple algorithms that these practitioners can implement for treatment of this disease. 
The otolaryngologic manifestations of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD): a clinical investigation of 225 patients using ambulatory 24-hour pH monitoring and an experimental investigation of the role of acid and pepsin in the development of laryngeal injury. Occult (silent) gastroesophageal reflux disease (GER, GERD) is believed to be an important etiologic factor in the development of many inflammatory and neoplastic disorders of the upper aerodigestive tract. In order ot test this hypothesis, a human study and an animal study were performed. The human study consisted primarily of applying a new diagnostic technique (double-probe pH monitoring) to a population of otolaryngology patients with GERD to determine the incidence of overt and occult GERD. The animal study consisted of experiments to evaluate the potential damaging effects of intermittent GER on the larynx. Two hundred twenty-five consecutive patients with otolaryngologic disorders having suspected GERD evaluated from 1985 through 1988 are reported. Ambulatory 24-hour intraesophageal pH monitoring was performed in 197; of those, 81% underwent double-probe pH monitoring, with the second pH probe being placed in the hypopharynx at the laryngeal inlet. Seventy percent of the patients also underwent barium esophagography with videofluoroscopy. The patient population was divided into seven diagnostic subgroups: carcinoma of the larynx (n = 31), laryngeal and tracheal stenosis (n = 33), reflux laryngitis (n = 61), globus pharyngeus (n = 27), dysphagia (n = 25), chronic cough (n = 30), and a group with miscellaneous disorders (n = 18). The most common symptoms were hoarseness (71%), cough (51%), globus (47%), and throat clearing (42%). Only 43% of the patients had gastrointestinal symptoms (heartburn or acid regurgitation). Thus, by traditional symptomatology, GER was occult or silent in the majority of the study population. Twenty-eight patients (12%) refused or could not tolerate pH monitoring. Of the patients undergoing diagnostic pH monitoring, 62% had abnormal esophageal pH studies, and 30% demonstrated reflux into the pharynx. The results of diagnostic pH monitoring for each of the subgroups were as follows (percentage with abnormal studies): carcinoma (71%), stenosis (78%), reflux laryngitis (60%), globus (58%), dysphagia (45%), chronic cough (52%), and miscellaneous (13%). The highest yield of abnormal pharyngeal reflux was in the carcinoma group and the stenosis group (58% and 56%, respectively). By comparison, the diagnostic barium esophagogram with videofluoroscopy was frequently negative. The results were as follows: esophagitis (18%), reflux (9%), esophageal dysmotility (12%), and stricture (3%). All of the study patients were treated with antireflux therapy. Follow-up was available on 68% of the patients and the mean follow-up period was 11.6 +/- 12.7 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Alcohol ablation of atrioventricular conduction Transcoronary ablation of atrioventricular conduction by dehydrated alcohol was attempted in 14 patients with refractory atrial arrhythmias. Alcohol (0.5 or 1.0 ml) was delivered after selective catheterisation of the atrioventricular nodal artery in the 10 patients in whom the artery could be identified by cineangiography. The other four patients underwent electrical ablation when the nodal artery could not be catheterised. Temporary atrioventricular block induced by dilute contrast and cold saline (0.9%) confirmed that the catheter was in the correct position before the alcohol was delivered. In all 10 patients complete atrioventricular block developed after alcohol ablation. The block persisted in all four patients given 1.0 ml alcohol but not in four of the six given 0.5 ml. The mean (SD) creatine kinase (MB fraction) at four to six hours after ablation was 76.5 (49.5) IU after 1.0 ml and 75.5 (43.1) IU after 0.5 ml alcohol (normal less than 20 IU). The overall success rate of alcohol ablation in the whole group on an "intention to treat" basis was 43%. The procedure was a technical success in six of the 10 patients in whom the nodal artery was identified. Transcoronary alcohol ablation of atrioventricular conduction should be considered in patients in whom electrical techniques have been unsuccessful. 
Inadequate immune response among public safety workers receiving intradermal vaccination against hepatitis B--United States, 1990-1991. The Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP) recommends that hepatitis B vaccine be administered by the intramuscular (IM) route (1). However, since November 1990, public safety departments have reported to CDC at least four instances of poor immune response among public safety workers vaccinated against hepatitis B by the intradermal (ID) route of administration. 
Itraconazole in the treatment of coccidioidomycosis. Sixteen patients with coccidioidomycosis were treated with itraconazole for one year. Sixteen suffered from pulmonary coccidioidomycosis, two of them had associated mediastinal lesions, and one suffered from skin coccidioidomycosis. The daily dose used was 400 mg during the one-year period. Patients were clinically evaluated every month and tested for mycosis every three months. All patients except for one showed negative cultures on the third month after treatment began. Effectiveness achieved was excellent in eight patients (50 percent); a very good response was found in seven patients (44 percent); no response was seen in one patient (6 percent). There were four (25 percent) relapses and one dropout. Side effects seen were high blood pressure (19 percent) and lower limb edema (6 percent), which was temporary and at no time required discontinuing the drug therapy. We believe that itraconazole is an effective drug to treat coccidioidomycosis with a wide safety margin. It is well tolerated, and the incidence of relapses was low. 
Factors associated with chronic lung disease in preterm infants. Among 659 infants of 30 weeks' gestation or less born in a regional perinatal centre between 1983 and 1989, 195 were ventilated for four days or more and survived to 28 days, and 87 of these developed chronic lung disease. There was a sevenfold increase in the annual incidence of chronic lung disease over time. During the same period there were significant increases in the number of infants who survived, the incidence of septicaemia, and the use of parenteral lipid emulsions. Chronic lung disease was significantly associated with low birth weight, shorter gestation, duration of ventilation, vaginal delivery, sepsis, and the use of lipid. Respiratory and physiological measurements at 96 hours were significantly worse in infants who subsequently developed chronic lung disease. Initial logistic regression showed that gestation, arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2), and ventilation rate at 96 hours; and birth in 1988 or 1989, were independently associated with chronic lung disease, but when septicaemia and use of lipid during the first 21 days were included, only gestational age (odds ratio 0.64, 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.49 to 0.81 for each week) and use of lipid (odds ratio 8.1, 95% CI, 2.32 to 28.0) remained significantly associated with chronic lung disease. The observed increase in incidence of chronic lung disease in this population was associated with earlier use of parenteral lipids in infants of very low gestation rather than with changes in population, survival, or ventilator treatment of respiratory distress syndrome. 
Left main coronary artery aneurysm in association with severe atherosclerosis: a case report and review of the literature. Aneurysms of the coronary arteries occur in from 0.3% to 4.9% of angiograms. Only 12 cases of left main artery (LMA) aneurysms have been reported. Of these, seven were associated with atherosclerosis in patients more than 56 years old. This report details the case of a 39-year-old patient with a large LMA aneurysm associated with atherosclerosis. 
Evaluation of ultrasonically guided biopsies of mediastinal masses. Eighty patients with roentgenographic evidence of mediastinal abnormalities were examined with ultrasonography. Fifty-four lesions were malignant, and 26 lesions were benign. The histologic diagnoses were confirmed by ultrasonically guided fine needle aspiration/cutting needle (Tru-Cut) biopsy, surgical specimens, or transbronchial biopsy. There were no unique ultrasonographic features for diagnosis of specific tumors. Ultrasonically guided aspiration biopsies (UGAB) were performed in 44 of the malignant lesions and in 14 of the benign lesions (nine of the noncystic lesions and five of the cystic lesions). Cytologic diagnosis of malignancies was obtained in 34 (77 percent) of these 44 malignancies; however, accurate histologic classifications of malignancies were achieved in only 24 (55 percent). Accurate diagnoses were achieved in only three (33 percent) of the nine noncystic benign lesions. Ultrasonically guided cutting biopsies (UGCB) were performed in 24 malignant and five benign lesions. All attempts yielded satisfactory specimens for histologic diagnosis. Using UGAB and UGCB together, a positive diagnosis was achieved in 89 percent (39/44) of the malignancies, and accurate histologic diagnosis was achieved in 89 percent and 78 percent (7/9) in malignant and benign noncystic lesions, respectively. Correct histologic diagnosis with UGAB alone is lower in thymoma (55 percent [6/11]) and lymphoma (30 percent [3/10]) but higher in lung cancer (67 percent [8/12]) and metastatic cancer (78 percent [7/9]). There were no complications in this series. We conclude that ultrasonography with UGAB has a high diagnostic yield in diagnosing mediastinal tumors, and UGCB is necessary for thymic tumors, lymphoma, and benign lesions. 
Intrathecal phenol rhizotomy for management of pain in recurrent unresectable carcinoma of the rectum. The medical records of 11 patients with recurrent unresectable adenocarcinoma of the rectum who had intrathecal phenol block for the management of intractable pain were reviewed. There were seven patients with pelvic and four with combined pelvic and perineal recurrences. Five patients had sacral involvement by tumor. Six patients had received prior irradiation. Three patients had good, three had fair and five patients had poor results after phenol rhizotomy. Patients with good results had relief for a median of three months. The over-all survival rate after phenol injection was three months. Phenol rhizotomy is indicated for the relief of intractable pain secondary to recurrent unresectable carcinoma of the rectum in carefully selected patients. 
Etretinate and visual function: a 1-year follow-up study. Concern has been expressed in the literature that the drug etretinate may be potentially retinotoxic. Four patients are reported who have received long-term treatment with etretinate and who have undergone detailed evaluation for the development of visual dysfunction over a 1-year period. Despite prolonged treatment and high total doses no evidence of ocular toxicity attributable to the drug was found in any of the patients. 
MR imaging findings in patients with bone-chip allografts. Increasing use of MR to evaluate primary bone neoplasms has stimulated numerous articles on the initial assessment of these lesions. However, scant MR literature has been written about the postoperative MR appearance. We studied the MR appearance of lesions treated by curettage followed by packing with cancellous bone-chip allograft. We retrospectively reviewed the MR scans of 18 consecutive patients treated in this way. Pathologic diagnoses of these lesions were confirmed according to commonly accepted criteria. The allograft sites showed a distinctive pattern of speckled bright signal on T1-weighted images in eight cases. Thirteen of 18 grafts showed a whorled or speckled pattern of increased signal on the T2-weighted images. Only four allograft regions had predominantly low signal on both T1- and T2-weighted images. Two of 18 patients had recurrent tumor proved by open biopsy. MR images in these cases showed areas of homogeneous signal that replaced areas of speckled hyperintensity on both T1- and T2-weighted images. In both these recurrences the tumor had signal intensity similar to that seen on the preoperative MR study. We conclude that knowledge of the MR appearance of cancellous bone chip allografts is important to avoid misinterpreting areas of high signal on T1- or T2-weighted images as areas of recurrence of tumor and/or hemorrhage. 
The long-term results of artificial sphincters in children. To determine the long-term efficacy of the artificial urinary sphincter, 36 consecutive children in whom a prosthesis was implanted between August 1978 and July 1985 were followed for a minimum of 5 years and re-evaluated within the last 3 months. Of the 36 sphincters 27 (75%) are currently in place; 2 of these 27 sphincters are dysfunctional due to fluid leakage. Of the 25 functioning sphincters 14 have required no further prosthetic operation, 10 needed 1 revision and 1 patient had 5 revisions. Fluid leakage, occurring in 12 patients, was the most common complication requiring reoperation. Twenty patients are completely continent (11 of whom without any medication) and 5 are occasionally damp. The over-all success rate at 2 and 5 years was 84 and 62%, respectively. The mean survival time of the prosthesis was 7.2 years and the mean standard interval was greater than 10.5 years. Patients with higher balloon pressures (81 to 100 cm. water) had more complications, and a decreased rate of success than those with lower pressure balloons (51 to 80 cm. water, p = 0.02). There was no difference in success rates between boys and girls (p = 0.98), although girls who had a prior bladder neck operation tended to have a higher rate of cuff erosion. Sphincters placed after 1980 (model AS800) had a lower reoperation rate than those placed earlier. In selected instances, the artificial urinary sphincter appears to be a viable long-term alternative for management of children with intractable incontinence who have either failed or are unsuitable for other methods of treatment. 
Resting energy expenditure in chronic cardiac failure. 1. Resting energy expenditure has previously been shown to be elevated in the acute phase of heart failure, but the situation in the compensated state of chronic cardiac failure is unclear. Resting energy expenditure was assessed in 14 patients with stable chronic cardiac failure and 14 matched control subjects by using indirect calorimetry. 2. Resting energy expenditure was significantly elevated in the patients with chronic cardiac failure (112.6 +/- 18.1 versus 87.1 +/- 12.2 kJ day-1 kg-1 total body weight, P less than 0.0002; mean +/- SD) as were resting O2 consumption (3.88 +/- 0.64 versus 3.00 +/- 0.43 ml min-1 kg-1, P less than 0.0002), ventilation (164 +/- 40.3 versus 104 +/- 16.2 ml min-1 kg-1, P less than 0.0001) and heart rate (85.8 +/- 16.9 versus 66.6 +/- 6.9 beats/min, P less than 0.001). Both the resting plasma concentration of noradrenaline (4.48 +/- 1.52 versus 2.28 +/- 0.96 nmol/l, P less than 0.0001) and the serum concentration of free fatty acids (0.78 +/- 0.21 versus 0.57 +/- 0.27 mmol/l, P less than 0.03) were greater in the patients with chronic cardiac failure. Analysis of covariance indicated that most of the difference in resting energy expenditure could be accounted for by the elevated ventilation in the patients with chronic cardiac failure. Arm muscle area, an index of wasting, was lower in the patients with chronic cardiac failure (39.1 +/- 13.1 versus 50.5 +/- 9.4 cm2, P less than 0.02) and resting energy expenditure was found to account for some of this difference. 3. We conclude that an elevated basal metabolism occurs in chronic cardiac failure. 
Cirrhosis of the liver. A regenerative process. The ancient story of Prometheus, chained to a rock for defying Zeus by stealing fire from Mount Olympus and subjected to daily tearing at his liver by an eagle, attests to the early recognition of the extraordinary regenerative capacity of the human liver. This process had remained an intriguing mystery over the millennia. In the last 20 years, following the pioneering work of Bucher (1) and Moolten et al (2), there has been an explosion of research that has clarified some of the mechanisms underlying the process of hepatic regeneration. Regeneration implies proliferation and regeneration. After the fetal and postnatal growth of the liver is completed, hepatocytes no longer proliferate actively, but they can proliferate in response to cell death or loss (3). Hepatocyte growth responses are of particular research interest because they occur in vivo and involve cells that are normally quiescent. Hepatic regeneration constitutes a highly regulated process that is best shown by the arrest of liver growth following a partial hepatectomy precisely at the moment the hepatic mass reaches the mass of the original intact liver (3). This suggests that hepatic regeneration after a partial hepatectomy is a strictly regulated nonautonomous growth process that is controlled by the same factors that are responsible for the determination and maintenance of hepatic mass in a normal individual. In response to a partial hepatectomy, hepatocytes enter the cell cycle and progress to DNA synthesis and replication but only in numbers sufficient to restore the hepatic mass. The regeneration response is both synchronized and universal in that it affects all intrahepatic cell lines, including nonparenchymal cells. 
Respiratory failure due to interstitial lung metastases of ovarian carcinoma reversed by chemotherapy. A woman with metastatic ovarian carcinoma developed postoperative respiratory failure due to interstitial lung metastases demonstrated by bronchoalveolar lavage. After chemotherapy, she was able to be removed from mechanical ventilation and has shown progressive resolution of her interstitial lung disease. Metastatic ovarian carcinoma can be a treatable etiology of life-threatening interstitial lung disease. 
Sclerotherapy for multiple glomangiomata. Multiple glomangiomata have always been treated by surgical resection. However, sclerotherapy can be used obliterate the majority of these tumors. 
Polycystic ovarian disease: contribution of vaginal endosonography and reassessment of ultrasonic diagnosis. OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the superiority of vaginal ultrasonography (US) on the abdominal US for the diagnosis of polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD). DESIGN: The US pattern of ovaries was prospectively investigated by abdominal US and, whenever possible, by vaginal US. SETTING: Primary care, institutional. PATIENTS: One hundred forty-four women in whom PCOD was suspected on endocrine grounds and 62 other patients presenting with primary hyperprolactinemia (n = 23) or hypothalamic anovulation (n = 39). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Vaginal US allowed a better analysis of the ovarian stroma. RESULTS: The external ovarian features of PCOD were observed by both routes in less than one third of the 144 patients with PCOD. The internal ovarian features of PCOD were much more frequently observed by vaginal US than by abdominal US (polycystic pattern: 66.7% versus 38.1%, P less than 0.05; increased ovarian stroma: 57.1% versus 4.8%, P less than 0.001). In the 62 patients without PCOD, US features of PCOD were observed in less than 10% of them, except for the uterine width/ovarian length ratio less than 1 and the polycystic pattern (abdominal US: 17% and 34%; vaginal US: 11% and 50%, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: An increased ovarian stroma seems to be the most sensitive and specific US sign of PCOD, providing that it can be investigated by vaginal US. 
Dental chair apoplexy. We have reported two cases of intracranial bleeding shortly after a dental procedure. We argue that administration of hypochlorite in gum debridement, application of dental cement, or mechanical stimulation of the alveolar branches of the trigeminal nerve at the pulp may not only result in acute systemic hypertension, but also in the release of vasodilatory neurotransmitters. The combination of a local increase in intracerebral blood flow and simultaneously developing systemic hypertension in an occasional patient may lead to intracranial hemorrhage. 
Portal-systemic encephalopathy: presence of basal ganglia lesions with high signal intensity on MR images. Sixteen patients with cirrhosis of the liver underwent cranial magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and transarterial portography to evaluate the relationship between basal ganglia lesions and portal-systemic collateral vessels. No neuropsychiatric disturbance was observed in any of the patients at the time of the MR examination, but four patients with portal-systemic encephalopathy were included in the study. Basal ganglia lesions, characterized by increased signal intensity on T1-weighted MR images, were observed in nine of the 16 patients, including the four with portal-systemic encephalopathy. These nine patients had large portal-systemic collateral vessels that were more than 10 mm in diameter. These collateral vessels were receiving blood from the superior mesenteric vein (SMV) in all nine patients. The lesions involved the globus pallidus and portions of internal capsules in a bilateral and symmetric fashion and did not exhibit mass effect. The authors conclude that there may be a significant relationship between high-intensity basal ganglia lesions and large portal-systemic collateral vessels receiving blood from the SMV. 
A donor splice mutation and a single-base deletion produce two carboxyl-terminal variants of human serum albumin. At least 35 allelic variants of human serum albumin have been sequenced at the protein level. All except two COOH-terminal variants, Catania and Venezia, are readily explainable as single-point substitutions. The two chain-termination variants are clustered in certain locations in Italy and are found in numerous unrelated individuals. In order to correlate the protein change in these variants with the corresponding DNA mutation, the two variant albumin genes have been cloned, sequenced, and compared to normal albumin genomic DNA. In the Catania variant, a single base deletion and subsequent frameshift leads to a shortened and altered COOH terminus. Albumin Venezia is caused by a mutation that alters the first consensus nucleotide of the 5' donor splice junction of intron 14 and the 3' end of exon 14, which is shortened from 68 to 43 base pairs. This change leads to an exon skipping event resulting in direct splicing of exon 13 to exon 15. The predicted Venezia albumin product has a truncated amino acid sequence (580 residues instead of 585), and the COOH-terminal sequence is altered after Glu-571. The variant COOH terminus ends with the dibasic sequence Arg-Lys that is apparently removed through stepwise cleavage by serum carboxypeptidase B to yield several forms of circulating albumin. 
Routine histological compared with immunohistological examination of bone marrow trephine biopsy specimens in disseminated neuroblastoma. The ability to detect infiltration in bone marrow biopsy specimens from patients with disseminated neuroblastoma was assessed by immunohistological and routine histological methods. Frozen cores from 33 staging procedures were tested with UJ13A and UJ127.11. Immunopositive tumour cells were found in 10 of 17 staging procedures in which tumour was detectable by routine histological methods. Positive cells or stromal material were also found in eight of 12 staging procedures in which distorted architecture and fibrosis, but no obvious tumour, had been noted. Paraffin wax embedded cores from 29 of the same staging procedures were tested with antibodies against neurone specific enolase and neurofilament. Only a single core reacted with anti-neurofilament antibody. Neurone specific enolase positive cells or stromal material were found in nine of 15 staging procedures in which obvious tumour was detectable. Although these immunohistochemical techniques proved inferior to routine histology in their ability to detect obvious tumour, the demonstration of immunopositive stromal tissue which was not frankly malignant supports the view that distorted, fibrotic marrow may reflect persistence of neuroectodermal tissue and justifies its distinction from normal marrow when reporting the response to treatment. 
Clinical, radiographic, and histologic study of endodontic treatment failures. One hundred fifty cases of endodontic treatment failures were studied clinically, radiographically, and histologically. Fifty-seven percent of the teeth were asymptomatic. Pain alone and/or associated with swelling was present in 21% of the teeth. There was no correlation between the size of periradicular rarefaction and the occurrence or severity of clinical signs and/or symptoms. Stainable bacteria were demonstrated in 69% of the teeth and were present mostly in the canal. The severity of periradicular inflammation was related to presence of stainable bacteria in the canal. Swelling and pain or a draining sinus tract was often associated with stainable bacteria inside the canal. The development of a radicular cyst associated with an endodontically treated tooth that has failed is not necessarily the cause of endodontic treatment failure. 
The prognostic significance of postoperative residual tumor in ependymoma. Between 1970 and 1989, 29 patients with intracranial ependymomas were evaluated and treated at the Children's Hospital in Boston. With a median follow-up of 82 months, the actuarial survival rates at 5 and 10 years were 61 +/- 10% and 46 +/- 12%, respectively. Anaplastic histological findings were uncommon (2 of 29). Initial postoperative radiotherapy was given to 25 patients, with a median tumor dose of 5360 cGy. With a median time to recurrence of 22 months, local failure (within 2 cm of original enhancing mass) was the predominant pattern of relapse (15 of 16 failures). The presence of radiographic residual disease seen on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomographic scans was the most important prognostic variable for patients with intracranial ependymoma. Analysis of the 19 patients who underwent postoperative imaging revealed a 75 +/- 15% 5-year freedom from progressive disease for 9 patients with no residual disease, as compared with 0% freedom from progressive disease for the 10 patients with gross residual disease (P = 0.03). In contrast, the surgical assessment of residual disease was not significant (P = 0.4). Age at presentation was also a significant prognostic factor. The overall actuarial survival rate at 12 years for infants 24 months or younger at diagnosis was 0%, as compared with 62 +/- 13% for older patients (P = 0.03). For non-anaplastic ependymomas, complete surgical resection followed by local-field, high-dose (greater than 54 Gy) radiotherapy appears to offer the greatest chance for long-term survival. Because of the markedly reduced survival rate for patients with radiologically apparent postoperative disease, maximal surgical resection and novel therapeutic endeavors appear warranted for this high-risk group. Future protocols should use postoperative imaging, not operative reports, to stratify patients with ependymoma. 
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation of apparently stillborn infants: survival and long-term outcome. To determine the outcome of apparently stillborn infants who received cardiopulmonary resuscitation, we studied the short- and long-term outcome of 93 infants who had an Apgar score of 0 at 1 minute of age and were resuscitated at birth. Sixty-two (66.6%) responded and left the delivery room alive; 26 (42%) of the 62 infants died in the neonatal period and 36 infants were discharged home; of the 36 infants, three subsequently died during infancy. Of the 33 survivors, ten were lost to follow-up after discharge. Developmental assessment of 23 of 33 long-term survivors revealed normal outcome in 14 (61.7%), abnormal results in 6 (26%), and suspect status in 3 (13%). Fifty-eight infants had an Apgar score of 0 at greater than or equal to 10 minutes of age and all except one died; the surviving infant has an abnormal developmental outcome. We conclude that 39% of apparently stillborn infants who were resuscitated survived beyond the neonatal period and that 61% of the 23 survivors who were available for developmental follow-up had normal development at the time of last examination. Survival was unlikely if there was no response after 10 minutes of resuscitation. 
Blood transfusion and oxygen consumption in surgical sepsis. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use of serum lactic acid values to predict flow-dependent increases in oxygen consumption (VO2) in response to increasing oxygen delivery (DO2) after blood transfusion in surgical sepsis. DESIGN: Prospective study. SETTING: Tertiary care, trauma center. PATIENTS: Twenty-one patients, postsurgical or posttrauma, judged septic by defined criteria. INTERVENTIONS: Serum lactic acid concentrations, DO2, and VO2 were measured before and after transfusion therapy. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Overall, the DO2 increased from 532 +/- 146 to 634 +/- 225 (SD) mL/min.m2 (p less than .001), and the VO2 increased from 145 +/- 39 to 160 +/- 56 mL/min.m2 (p = .02). These changes occurred with an Hgb increase from 9.3 +/- 1.1 to 10.7 +/- 1.5 g/dL (p less than .001). The patients were grouped by their pretransfusion serum lactic acid values. In those patients with normal (less than 1.6 mmol/dL) serum lactic acid (n = 10), DO2 increased from 560 +/- 113 to 676 +/- 178 mL/min.m2 (p less than .02), and VO2 increased from 150 +/- 25 to 183 +/- 46 mL/min.m2 (p less than .02). However, in the increased serum lactic acid group (n = 17), VO2 was not significantly changed after transfusion (143 +/- 46 to 146 +/- 58 mL/min.m2) despite increased DO2 (515 +/- 163 to 609 +/- 251 mL/min.m2, p less than .01). CONCLUSIONS: Blood transfusion can be used to augment DO2 and VO2 in septic surgical patients. Increased serum lactic acid values do not predict patients who will respond. The absence of lactic acidosis should not be used in this patient population to justify withholding blood transfusions to improve flow-dependent VO2. Patients who have increased lactate concentrations may have a peripheral oxygen utilization defect that prevents improvement in VO2 with increasing DO2. 
Prophylactic minitracheotomy in lung resections. A randomized controlled study. Thirty consecutive patients undergoing lung resections were randomized into two groups: Group A (n = 15) received minitracheotomy postoperatively and group B (n = 15) were control patients. Postoperative respiratory course was monitored by serial clinical assessments, chest x-ray examination, arterial blood gases, sputa bacterial cultures, and the patient's requirement and response to chest physiotherpy. The two groups were similarly matched in age (mean 58.5 years), smoking habits, pulmonary functions, and surgical procedures. Postoperative pulmonary complications of collapse/consolidation developed in 11 patients (two in group A and nine in group B) (p less than 0.03). Four patients (all in group B) required nimitracheotomy in addition to antibiotics and chest physiotherapy to treat their pneumonia. Chest physiotherapy requirement was less in group A than in group B, with a mean number of sessions of seven in group A and eight in group B and a mean total time of 92 minutes in group A and 112 minutes in group B. The mean duration of minitracheotomy was 4.13 days. Minor temporary symptoms resulted from the minitracheotomy in eight patients (42%) and included discomfort, voice changes, subcutaneous emphysema, and stridor. There was one case of long-term morbidity (5%)-skin scarring from wound infection at the site of the minitracheotomy. No postoperative deaths resulted. We conclude that the prophylactic use of minitracheotomy is safe and effective in decreasing postoperative respiratory complications in patients undergoing lung resections. 
Prevalence of chronic migraine headaches--United States, 1980-1989. Migraine headaches, which are characterized by painful, disabling, and recurring symptoms, have no known cause, treatment, or cure. Quality population-based data are needed to improve epidemiologic understanding of chronic migraine headaches. This report uses data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) to describe the prevalence of recent trends in the occurrence of chronic migraine headaches in the United States from 1980 through 1989. 
Regulation of cerebral blood vessels by humoral and endothelium-dependent mechanisms. Update on humoral regulation of vascular tone. Recent studies suggest that humoral and endothelium-dependent mechanisms may play an important role in the cerebral circulation. Angiotensin may acutely and chronically increase resistance of large cerebral arteries and reduce cerebral microvascular pressure without changing cerebral blood flow. We hypothesize that the brain may sense reductions in microvascular pressure and initiate compensatory neurohumoral responses to raise arterial pressure. Vasopressin appears to play an important role in regulation of production of cerebrospinal fluid and brain fluid volume. Vasopressin also may be protective when intracranial pressure is elevated. Endothelium-dependent mechanisms also may have important influences on tone of cerebral vessels. Synthesis of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor nitric oxide, or a nitric oxide-containing compound, appears to influence both basal tone and responses of large cerebral arteries to acetylcholine in vivo. Large cerebral arteries dilate in response to increased blood flow in vivo, and this response may be mediated in part by release of a humoral factor by endothelium. Endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral arterioles to receptor- and nonreceptor-mediated agonists are impaired during chronic hypertension. The mechanism of impairment of endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral arterioles appears to involve production of an endothelium-derived contracting factor. 
Hyperinsulinemia, sex, and risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease BACKGROUND. The possibility that hyperinsulinemia may be involved in the etiology of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) was first suggested 20 years ago. During the last decade, this possibility has received support from three large prospective studies. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the present study, the association between CVD, glucose intolerance, obesity, and hypertension (the GOH conditions) and hyperinsulinemia was examined cross-sectionally in a representative sample (n = 1,263) of the adult Jewish population aged 40-70 years in Israel. Previously known diabetics were excluded. CVD comprising clinical or ECG evidence of ischemic heart disease, as well as clinical evidence of cerebrovascular or peripheral vascular disease, was identified in 97 men and 39 women. A significant (p less than 0.01) hyperinsulinemia-sex interaction was found for CVD rate, with the adjusted risk ratios (followed by 95% confidence limits), relative to the rate in 298 normoinsulinemic women, being 1.15 (0.68-1.95) in 328 normoinsulinemic men, 0.85 (0.48-1.49) in 277 hyperinsulinemic women, and 2.27 (1.33-3.08) in 360 hyperinsulinemic men. Age-adjusted CVD rates in men versus women were: a) similar and low among all normoinsulinemic normotensives and hyperinsulinemics free of any of the GOH conditions (all rates less than or equal to 6.5%); b) similar and high among normoinsulinemic hypertensives (13.4% versus 10.4%); c) significantly higher in men among hyperinsulinemic normotensives with glucose intolerance and/or obesity (15.2% versus 3.3%; p = 0.02) and all hyperinsulinemic hypertensives (21.5% versus 12.8%; p = 0.04). These trends remained significant after adjusting for age, ethnic group, and blood lipids. CONCLUSIONS. Therefore, hyperinsulinemia was associated with excess CVD risk in men but not in women, and all excess CVD risk in men was confined to hyperinsulinemic individuals in the presence of glucose intolerance, obesity, or hypertension. 
Increased treatment of hypertension does not explain the decline in stroke mortality in the United States, 1970-1980. The steady decline in mortality from stroke in the United States accelerated markedly in the 1970s. It has been widely assumed that an increase in the rate of treatment of hypertension is the most likely explanation for this major public health achievement. An analysis of available information, however, suggests that improvements in the community control of hypertension in the United States in the period 1970-1980 have contributed in only a minor way. There were 45,357 fewer deaths from stroke in 1980 among those aged 35-74 years than might have been expected if the death rates had stayed the same as in 1970. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Surveys indicate that six million more people received antihypertensive medication in 1980 than in 1970. Results from a pooled analysis of randomized controlled trials of the treatment of hypertension suggest that between 6% and 16% of the reduction in stroke mortality was due to the increased treatment of hypertension. Epidemiological observations indicate that between 16% and 25% of the overall decline in stroke mortality can be attributed to the treatment of hypertension, suggesting that clinical trials probably underestimate the community-wide benefits of treatment. These results also suggest that at least three quarters of the decline in stroke mortality in the United States in the period 1970-1980 is due to factors other than antihypertensive treatment. 
Radial artery hypoplasia: a further association with the VATER syndrome? A case of radial artery hypoplasia in a girl with the VATER syndrome is reported. This finding should alert surgeons dealing with vascular access for dialysis and suggests the possibility of intrauterine ischemia in the etiology of upper limb anomalies in these patients. 
Donor limb vascular events following femoro-femoral bypass surgery. A Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study. Three hundred seventeen patients who had femorofemoral bypass surgery were examined for postoperative vascular changes that developed in the donor limb. "Unmasked" claudication developed in 7%, new claudication related to a "steal" developed in 3.5%, progression of preoperative claudication developed in 1%, new rest pain developed in 1.7%, and new necrosis developed in 0.7% of patients. Postoperatively, the donor limb ankle-brachial index decreased 0.30 or greater in 3% of the patients, decreased 0.15 to 0.29 in 6%, and decreased 0.10 to 0.14 in 6% of the patients. Only eight patients (3%) had a clinical and hemodynamic steal. Late vascular procedures for donor iliac stenosis were few, resulting in an iliac percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in 3% and inflow bypasses in 3%. Angiographic patterns of donor and recipient limbs were not predictive of "clinical" or "hemodynamic" steal events. Most new donor limb symptoms of claudication were an unmasking of arterial insufficiency previously present in the donor limb that became apparent when the recipient limb was improved. 
Possible roles of basic fibroblast growth factor in the pathogenesis of moyamoya disease: an immunohistochemical study. Prominent features of moyamoya disease are fibrocellular thickening of the intima and enhanced angiogenesis. The pathogenesis of moyamoya disease is, however, unknown. Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) is an angiogenic factor as well as a potent mitogen for a number of cell types including vascular endothelial and smooth-muscle cells. In order to test the possibility that basic FGF takes part in the pathogenesis of moyamoya disease, the authors tested for the presence of this factor using a mouse monoclonal antibody against human recombinant basic FGF. The surgical specimens studied included two sections of the superficial temporal artery (STA) and four samples of dura mater from four patients with moyamoya disease. Surgical specimens were obtained from three patients with other diseases as control tissue. Sections of the STA obtained from the patients with moyamoya disease showed strong basic FGF immunoreactivity in endothelial and smooth-muscle cells, while control sections had only faint and scattered immunoreactivity. All sections of the dura mater obtained from the patients with moyamoya disease also revealed more intense immunohistochemical staining of basic FGF in meningeal and vascular cells than did control sections. These observations indicate that the amount of basic FGF is increased in the tissues of patients with moyamoya disease; thus, basic FGF may play an important role in the pathogenesis of moyamoya disease. 
Experimental non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced enteropathy in the rat: similarities to inflammatory bowel disease and effect of thromboxane synthetase inhibitors. We have validated an established animal model of acute inflammatory bowel disease in indomethacin-treated rats. Studies in both in vitro and in vivo 51chromium-labelled ethylenediamine tetra-acetate (51Cr-EDTA) permeability and tissue myeloperoxidase activity, a marker of inflammatory cell invasion, showed increased permeability and enzyme levels, respectively, in treated animals compared to controls (in vitro 51Cr-EDTA permeability: (mean (SE] control 0.10 (0.02) microliter/mg per tissue, experimental 0.17 (0.02) (p less than 0.01, 2 way analysis of variance); in vivo 51Cr-EDTA permeability: control 3.9 (1.3) (% dose recovered), experimental 12.1 (1.5) (p less than 0.01); tissue myeloperoxidase: control 10.8 (0.4) mU/mg, experimental 17.2 (0.5) p less than 0.01). Pretreatment or simultaneous treatment of indomethacin-treated animals with glucocorticoids, sulphasalazine, or tetracycline reduced the permeability changes and the tissue inflammatory response (in vitro 51Cr-EDTA permeability: (mean (SE] sulphasalazine + indomethacin 0.11 (0.2) microliter/mg tissue (p less than 0.01), prednisolone +/- indomethacin 0.12 (0.02) (p less than 0.01), tetracycline + indomethacin 0.12 (0.02) (p less than 0.01]. Glucocorticoids and sulphasalazine, but not tetracycline, administered after the indomethacin also partially corrected the permeability and inflammatory changes induced by indomethacin (in vitro 51Cr-EDTA permeability: sulphasalazine 0.15 (0.02) microliter/mg, p less than 0.02; prednisolone 0.12 (0.02) microliter/mg, p less than 0.01). This approach was used to investigate the effects of two different thromboxane synthetase inhibitors in indomethacin-treated animals. Simultaneous treatment with thromboxane synthetase inhibitors and indomethacin prevented the 51Cr-EDTA permeability and tissue myeloperoxidase increases induced by indomethacin alone (in vitro 51Cr-EDTA permeability: thromboxane synthetase inhibitors + indomethacin 0.11 (0.01) microliter/mg (p0.01); tissue myeloperoxidase: 11 (0.4) mU/mg, (p less than 0.01). 
Risk factors for bilateral testicular germ cell tumors. Does heredity play a role? Twenty-three bilateral testicular germ cell tumors (four synchronous and 19 sequential tumors) were investigated for potential risk factors. The incidence of maldescensus testis was not found to be higher than in patients with unilateral disease. The histologic findings of the first tumor did not have any effect on the incidence of the second tumor. In 21 patients (four synchronous and 17 sequential tumors), histocompatibility antigens (HLA) were determined; HLA-B14 was increased significantly in the sequential tumor group. Tendencies toward an increase of HLA-DR5 and HLA-DR7 also were found. The HLA-DR1, HLA-DR3, and HLA-DR4 showed a tendency toward a decreased frequency. Therefore genetic factors might be important in the development of sequential bilateral testicular cancers. 
Expression of platelet-derived growth factor and transforming growth factor and their correlation with cellular morphology in glial tumors. This study was undertaken to evaluate the role of two sets of growth factors, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), in the induction and maintenance of glial tumors and their phenotypic expression. Explants from eight malignant tumors, five benign tumors, and two nontumor glial cells were analyzed for levels of messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of PDGFA, PDGFB, TGF-beta 1, and TGF-beta 2. Results were normalized to the mRNA expression of tubulin, a "housekeeping" gene present in glial cells. Of the 15 explants tested, PDGFB was seen in six, all of which were malignant tumors; PDGFA was seen in all 15 with much higher levels expressed in malignant tumors; and TGF-beta 1 and TGF-beta 2 were seen in all 15 without a clear difference between cell types, although expression tended to be higher in malignant tumors. This project supports the theory that the induction and maintenance of glial tumors is likely to be a multifactorial phenomenon. 
The risk of ligation of the left renal vein in resection of the abdominal aortic aneurysm. The left renal vein can be ligated during aortic operation to attain better access to the perirenal aorta. This maneuver has been considered safe, with a low incidence of postoperative renal complications. This study was done to evaluate the risk of left renal vein ligation and its influence on renal function in patients with elective resection of abdominal aortic aneurysms. The records of 332 patients undergoing elective repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms during a five year period were reviewed. The clinical and operative data of patients who had left renal vein ligation and those who did not were similar. Left renal vein ligation was not associated with an increased mortality rate but was strongly associated with an increase in serum creatinine level and a clinical diagnosis of postoperative azotemia. Nine of 13 patients who had left renal vein ligation had postoperative azotemia compared with 21 of 319 patients without left renal vein ligation (p less than 0.001). The mean change of preoperative and postoperative creatinine value was an increase of 1.92 milligrams per deciliter in patients with left renal vein ligation in contrast with 0.26 milligram per deciliter in patients without ligation (p less than 0.00075). Thus, ligation of the left renal vein increases the risk of postoperative renal complications and its use should be selective. 
Choriocarcinoma of the septum pellucidum: case report. A case of choriocarcinoma of the septum pellucidum is presented. The patient, a 6-year-old boy, demonstrated high levels of human chorionic gonadotropin in his urine, serum, and cerebrospinal fluid, and precocious puberty. The physical conditions and laboratory data returned to normal after surgical removal of the tumor, whole brain irradiation, and chemotherapy. Currently, there is no evidence of recurrence at 5 months after surgery. 
The combined antiischemic effects of the thromboxane receptor antagonist SQ 30,741 and tissue-type plasminogen activator. The thromboxane-receptor antagonist, SQ 30,741, may be used as adjuvant therapy for thrombolysis and has also been shown to have antiischemic activity that is independent of its thrombolytic activity. Since tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and SQ 30,741 may be administered simultaneously, we determined whether the antiischemic effects of SQ 30,741 can be potentiated by t-PA. This was accomplished by combining doses of t-PA and SQ 30,741, which alone were not cardioprotective. Anesthetized dogs were subjected to left circumflex coronary artery occlusion for 90 minutes and reperfusion for 5 hours. The dogs were treated during reperfusion with a dose of t-PA that caused approximately a 30% reduction in plasma fibrinogen alone or in combination with 1.5 mg/kg + 0.4 mg/kg/hr SQ 30,741, which started 10 minutes after initiation of ischemia. At these doses, neither t-PA nor SQ 30,741 alone significantly reduced infarct size (57% +/- 6%, 50% +/- 10%, 57% +/- 6% of the left ventricular area at risk for vehicle controls, t-PA, and SQ 30,741 respectively); however, combination treatment resulted in a significant reduction in infarct size (37% +/- 5% of the left ventricular area at risk). Higher doses of t-PA and SQ 30,741 alone significantly reduced infarct size. The protective effects of t-PA and SQ 30,741 occurred without altering peripheral hemodynamic status. No differences in collateral or reperfusion blood flow were observed between groups. Thus although SQ 30,741 may act to improve the efficacy of thrombolysis, t-PA may in turn enhance the antiischemic activity of SQ 30,741 or at least reduce the threshold dose. 
Measurement of tissue oxygen tension: comparison between two subcutaneous oxygen tonometers. We compared the 95% response time (95% RT) of two tissue oxygen tonometers under two sets of circumstances. We first evaluated the devices during normoxia, hyperoxia, and anoxia in vitro, using a transcutaneous PO2 electrode (PtcO2) as the reference. The responses to normoxia and to different grades of hyperoxia were examined in vivo in 8 healthy volunteers to assess the relationship between changes in subcutaneous PO2 and PtcO2, an estimate of arterial PO2 (PaO2). One subcutaneous method (ScA) used a technique based on a polarographic needle electrode in situ connected to an ammeter; the second method (ScB) was based on a blood gas analyzer system first described by Hunt (Lancet 164;2:1370). ScA and PtcO2 both responded to stepwise changes in ambient oxygen concentration (21-100%) in vitro within 10 seconds; the 95% RT of ScA was 1.39 +/- 0.5 to 2.39 +/- 0.8 minutes and that of PtcO2 was 0.32 +/- 0.1 to 0.49 +/- 0.1 minutes. ScB had a lag of 3 minutes, and the 95% RT was 6.75 +/- 0.5 to 8.2 +/- 0.8 minutes. In contrast to the results in vitro, the response of ScA to changes in FiO2 in vivo was delayed compared with the rapid response of PtcO2, reflecting the physiologic delay of tissue PO2 in response to increased PaO2. The time lag and the long 95% RT of ScB were even more evident in vivo. ScA reacted three to four times faster than ScB, both in vitro and in vivo, to changes in the oxygen environment. The in vitro 95% RT of ScA to changes in ambient oxygen varied from 2 to 3.5 minutes. 
Effects of acute insulin-induced hypoglycaemia on haemostasis, fibrinolysis and haemorheology in insulin-dependent diabetic patients and control subjects. 1. The effects of acute hypoglycaemia on haemostasis, fibrinolysis, blood viscosity and erythrocyte aggregation were examined after acute insulin-induced hypoglycaemia in six normal male subjects and in six male patients with poorly controlled insulin-dependent diabetes. In the control subjects hypoglycaemia caused a significant increase in the concentration of von Willebrand factor, with no change in the concentrations of fibrinogen and cross-linked fibrin degradation products. Fibrinolysis was enhanced, as indicated by significant increases in tissue plasminogen activator concentration and the fibrin plate lysis area, with a fall in plasminogen-activator inhibitor activity, suggesting complex formation. Whole-blood and plasma viscosity increased significantly after hypoglycaemia, but there was no significant change in erythrocyte aggregation tendency. 2. In diabetic patients the increase in the concentration of von Willebrand factor was significantly greater than in the control group (analysis of variance, P less than 0.02). The basal concentration of tissue plasminogen activator was reduced at 3.7 +/- 0.7 mg/l (mean +/- SEM) in the diabetic group compared with 8.5 +/- 1.3 mg/l in the control group (Student's t-test, P less than 0.01), but thereafter the increase in response to hypoglycaemia was similar. The changes in the other variables were not significantly different from the changes in the control group. 3. During acute hypoglycaemia in poorly controlled diabetic patients there is promotion of haemostasis with a greater increase in the concentration of von Willebrand factor, which, in association with the increase in viscosity, might reduce perfusion in diabetic microangiopathy, leading to aggravation of the microvascular complications of diabetes. 
The effects of neurokinin A, neurokinin B, and eledoisin on substance P analysis. Commercial sources for neuropeptide radioimmunoassays have made this sensitive tool available to clinical investigators for monitoring the potential involvement of neuropeptides in pain modulation. We measured substance P-like immunoreactivity in the plasma, saliva, and pericardial fluid of subjects with and without pain (chronic and acute) to determine if substance P levels are altered. Some recent studies have suggested that substance P in various body fluids may be a correlate of chronic pain. To test this correlation it is important to ensure that the assay is measuring what it was designed to measure. Therefore, the influence of three tachykinins on the analysis of substance P concentrations was assessed with a commercially available radioimmunoassay kit. A small (approximately 2 to 6%), apparently nonspecific elevation in measured substance P was found when alpha-neurokinin, beta-neurokinin, or eledoisin was incubated with substance P and its antibody. Our results also indicate an apparent specific affinity of the substance P antibody for alpha-neurokinin (above 1,000 pg/ml) and beta-neurokinin (above 5,000 pg/ml). Substance P levels in the body fluids we tested ranged from 0.47 to 62.88 pg/mg protein (47.4 to 230.8 pg/ml). Levels of the tested tachykinins have not been determined in body fluids. If alpha-neurokinin or beta-neurokinin is found to be present in high concentrations in these fluids, this commercially available substance P kit may overestimate substance P levels. The concentrations of tachykinins necessary to interfere specifically with the assay are 10- to 100-fold higher than substance P in body fluids. 
Role of external bacterial flora in the pathogenesis of acute postoperative endophthalmitis. The source of infecting bacteria is often unknown in postoperative endophthalmitis. Using techniques of molecular epidemiology, the authors demonstrate that an organism isolated from the vitreous was genetically indistinguishable from an isolate recovered from the patient's eyelid, conjunctiva, or nose in 14 (82%) of 17 cases of endophthalmitis. In two cases of Staphylococcus epidermidis endophthalmitis, after cataract surgery was performed by the same surgeon on the same day, genetic analysis demonstrated that the infecting organisms from the two patients' vitreous were distinct, and, furthermore, that in each case the external isolates were indistinguishable from the vitreous isolate. The results implicate the patients' external tissues as the source of the infecting organism in those cases of acute postoperative endophthalmitis studied. Therefore, attention should be directed toward the external tissues and their microbial flora in the prophylaxis and prevention of postoperative bacterial endophthalmitis. 
Angiographic assessment of the infarct-related residual coronary stenosis after spontaneous or therapeutic thrombolysis The severity of the infarct-related residual coronary stenosis after spontaneous or therapeutic thrombolysis was quantitatively assessed in 91 patients with an acute myocardial infarction who were allocated to treatment in the acute stage with either a thrombolytic agent (100 mg of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator given over 3 h, 49 patients) or a placebo (42 patients). Heparin and aspirin were given to both groups until angiography was performed. Digital subtracted images of the infarct-related coronary vessel were obtained 10 to 14 days after hospital admission and were subsequently analyzed with the use of a computer-assisted coronary stenosis measurement system. Neither treatment group differed significantly in age, gender or location of the culprit coronary lesion. Median values (90% range) in the thrombolysis and control groups were, respectively, 1.95 (0.9 to 5.3) mm versus 1.7 (0.9 to 3.4) mm for stenosis length; 1.4 (0.8 to 2.7) mm versus 1.4 (0.9 to 1.8) mm for minimal luminal diameter; 57% (36% to 75%) versus 58% (44% to 71%) for diameter obstruction; 82% (59% to 95%) versus 82% (68% to 92%) for geometric area obstruction; and 78% (58% to 91%) versus 79% (66% to 90%) for densitometric area obstruction. The difference between the two groups was not statistically significant for any of these measurements. Thus, in this study no significant differences in anatomy or severity of residual coronary stenosis could be demonstrated at 10 to 14 days after an acute myocardial infarction in patients with a recanalized infarct-related vessel, whether or not thrombolytic therapy was given on admission. These results indicate that with effective antithrombotic treatment, gradual endogenous fibrinolysis or more rapid lysis induced by the infusion of a thrombolytic agent results in a similar infarct-related coronary lesion at the time of hospital discharge. 
A comparative study of the cerebrovascular complications of cocaine: alkaloidal versus hydrochloride--a review. Cocaine, especially in its alkaloidal or "crack" form, has been increasingly associated with cerebrovascular disease. Before the crack epidemic, cocaine hydrochloride (HCl) was also implicated as a cause of stroke. However, less is known about the differences in stroke subtypes, age at stroke onset, or presence of underlying structural cerebrovascular disease with different forms of cocaine use. We compared 26 patients (previously reported) from our four institutions plus 16 cases reported in the literature of stroke associated with alkaloidal cocaine to 63 (57 reported in the literature and six not previously reported from our four institutions) cases of stroke associated with cocaine HCl. Ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes are equally likely after alkaloidal cocaine use, whereas cocaine HCl is more likely (approximately 80% of the time) to cause hemorrhagic stroke, with approximately half the intracranial hemorrhages occurring from ruptured cerebral saccular aneurysms or vascular malformations. The presence of an underlying cerebral aneurysm was more common among patients with cocaine HCl-associated strokes than alkaloidal cocaine-associated strokes. Cerebral infarction was significantly more common among the alkaloidal cocaine users than in all the cocaine HCl users, and this was also true when alkaloidal cocaine users were compared with parenteral cocaine HCl (intravenous and intramuscular) users. Only hemorrhagic stroke has been reported with intravenous cocaine HCl use. We conclude that the pathogenesis of cocaine-related stroke is heterogeneous, and depends, in part, on the form of cocaine used. 
Monocyte-derived neutrophil chemotactic factor/interleukin-8 is a potential mediator of crystal-induced inflammation. The physical interaction of particulates with resident mononuclear phagocytes is a consistent feature in certain forms of crystal-induced inflammation. In this study, we observed that monosodium urate crystals stimulated the rapid release of neutrophil chemotactic activity from monocytes, and that this activity steadily increased over 24 hours. Because the release of monocyte-derived neutrophil chemotactic activity was markedly diminished by pretreatment of the monocytes with cycloheximide, and was completely removed from conditioned media by adsorption to heparin-agarose, we addressed the possibility that monocyte-derived neutrophil chemotactic factor/interleukin-8 (IL-8), a heparin-binding neutrophil-activating polypeptide, might modulate these activities. Urate crystal-induced IL-8 secretion from monocytes was verified by radioimmunoassay. In addition, an IL-8-specific antibody markedly inhibited the neutrophil-activating capacity of the conditioned media from monocytes activated by urate crystals, as well as by inflammatory silica crystals. Last, IL-8 was significantly increased in gouty synovial fluids (range 3.0-16.8 ng/ml, mean 8.4 ng/ml, n = 6) relative to osteoarthritic synovial fluids (range 1.1-1.7 ng/ml, mean 1.5 ng/ml, n = 6) (P = 0.006). We conclude that microcrystal-induced secretion of IL-8 by mononuclear phagocytes may mediate a number of forms of crystal-induced inflammation. 
Massive thyroid oncocytoma. A patient with a massive thyroid oncocytoma is presented. The symptoms of hoarseness and dysphagia were due to compression and were relieved by surgical excision of the tumour. 
Inhibition by sodium-potassium citrate (CG-120) of calcium oxalate crystal growth on to kidney stone fragments obtained from extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Retention of fragments within the kidney after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) continues to be a major shortcoming of this form of stone treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of sodium-potassium citrate to inhibit calcium oxalate crystal nucleation and growth on to stone fragments remaining after ESWL. The continuous flow crystallisation technique was adapted to induce calcium oxalate crystal nucleation and growth on to the surface of fragmented kidney stones and the inhibitory effect of sodium-potassium citrate was assessed by scanning electron microscopy and by determining the relative increase in crystalline mass at final concentrations of 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 mmol/l. Sodium-potassium citrate significantly inhibited the deposition of new crystalline calcium oxalate in a dose-dependent manner above 2 mmol/l; these findings were confirmed by scanning electron microscopy. It was concluded that sodium-potassium citrate may provide an effective means of preventing the formation of new kidney stones by the deposition of calcium oxalate on to residual stone fragments resulting from ESWL and that the technique used is an efficient means of testing the efficacy of therapeutic agents to prevent stone recurrence in patients treated with ESWL. 
Interleukin-6 antisense oligonucleotides inhibit the growth of human myeloma cell lines. IL-6 has been shown to be a plasmacytoma growth factor in mice and is believed to play a key role in the development of human multiple myeloma. We investigated the IL-6 requirements for the growth of two human myeloma cell lines, U 266 and RPMI 8226. These cell lines secreted minute amounts of IL-6 (20 U/ml) and featured IL-6 mRNA. IL-6 receptors were detectable at the surface of malignant cells by immunofluorescence. Antibodies to IL-6 did not alter the proliferation of these myeloma cells. There was a dose-dependent decrease, however, in [3H]-thymidine uptake in the presence of IL-6 antisense (and not sense) oligodeoxynucleotides; in the presence of 20 microM IL-6 antisense, an 80 and 95% inhibition of the proliferation of U 266 and RPMI 8226 cells was observed, respectively. These results provide strong evidence for an IL-6 autocrine proliferation of myeloma cells which may occur via internal interaction between IL-6 and the IL-6 receptor. 
Protection from rotavirus reinfection: 2-year prospective study. To measure protection induced by natural rotavirus infection, 163 infants enrolled in a rotavirus vaccine trial were prospectively followed for 2 years. Serotype 1 rotaviruses were the predominant circulating strains during the study. Over the 2 years of observation, significantly fewer infants infected before enrollment developed a symptomatic reinfection (0 of 21) or any reinfection (4 of 21) compared with previously uninfected infants (P = .0003). Of the 60 infants who developed a primary rotavirus infection in the first year (40 symptomatic, 20 asymptomatic) only 4 were reinfected in the second year compared with 29 of 82 subjects not previously infected (P = .00003). Asymptomatic primary infection appeared to be as protective as symptomatic primary infection. The only symptomatic reinfections occurred in 2 subjects who did not develop rotavirus antibody after the initial detection of rotavirus. An age-related reduction in the ratio of symptomatic to asymptomatic primary rotavirus infection was also detected. In this study, protection against homotypic serotype 1 reinfection appeared to last greater than or equal to 2 years. 
Spectral turbulence analysis of the signal-averaged electrocardiogram and its predictive accuracy for inducible sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia. This study was designed to assess the accuracy of a new noninvasive frequency analysis method for predicting patients with inducible sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) at electrophysiologic study and hence the risk of spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Signal-averaged electrocardiograms from 3 orthogonal bipolar surface leads were evaluated using a microcomputer-based frequency analysis system that performs analysis of conventional time-domain late potentials as well as incorporating a new technique for spectral analysis of relatively short, overlapping signal segments spanning the whole QRS complex. The spectral analysis technique measured abnormalities anywhere in the entire QRS complex and did so without dependence on any arbitrarily defined frequency, duration or amplitude cutoffs. The hallmark of arrhythmogenic abnormality was hypothesized to be frequent and abrupt changes in the frequency signature of the QRS wave front velocity as it propagates throughout the ventricle around areas of abnormal conduction, resulting in a high degree of spectral turbulence. One-hundred forty-two subjects were studied, including 71 totally normal control subjects ("true negatives"), 33 with both late potentials by time-domain analysis and inducible sustained monomorphic VT ("true positives"), 28 with late potentials but no evidence of spontaneous or inducible sustained monomorphic VT ("false positives") and 10 with inducible sustained monomorphic VT but absence of time-domain late potentials ("false negatives"). The frequency analysis technique correctly classified 100% of the true negatives, 97% of the true positives, 86% of the late potentials false positives and 60% of the late potentials false negatives. The total predictive accuracy of frequency analysis for all groups was 94%, compared with 73% for time-domain late potential analysis. The results suggest that a high degree of spectral turbulence of the overall QRS signal during sinus rhythm may provide a more accurate marker for the anatomic-electrophysiologic substrate of reentrant tachyarrhythmias than detection of late potentials in the terminal QRS region by either time- or frequency-domain analysis. Spectral turbulence analysis is applicable to patients irrespective of the QRS duration and the presence or absence of bundle branch block. 
Changes in hypertension treatment and in congestive heart failure mortality in the United States. The use of antihypertensive agents has increased in recent years and has been more marked among individuals in older age groups (65-74 years) than in middle-aged groups (45-54 years). Because hypertension is a strong risk factor for the development of congestive heart failure, more common use of antihypertensive agents would be expected to reduce the incidence of congestive heart failure. Examination of the national death statistics reveals decreases in congestive heart failure mortality at younger ages with mortality increases at older ages. The reasons for these divergent trends in congestive heart failure mortality in different ages and the apparent inconsistency with respect to the changes in the use of antihypertensive drugs are explored. We speculate that antihypertensive treatment does not completely prevent congestive heart failure but merely postpones its development by several decades. 
Unresectable pancreatic cancer: what is the optimal procedure? We retrospectively reviewed cases of pancreatic cancer to determine the benefit of various methods of biliary decompression and the role of prophylactic gastroenterostomy (GE) in management. Twenty-seven patients had only biliary bypass, and 26 had biliary bypass and GE. Operative mortality was similar for both groups (22% and 19%, respectively). The complication rates were almost identical (37% and 35%). Differences in operative mortality, incidence of cholangitis, and recurrence of jaundice were not statistically significant between patients having biliary decompression via the common bile duct or the gallbladder. Operative mortality associated with choledochoenterostomy was 33% versus 17% for cholecystoenterostomy. Gastric outlet obstruction developed in 5% of patients who did not have GE. We conclude that cholecystojejunostomy is an effective method of biliary bypass. Because its addition did not seem to increase operative morbidity or mortality, we advocate GE at the initial exploration to prevent gastric outlet obstruction. 
The desmoid tumor: "benign" neoplasm, not a benign disease. The desmoid tumor is a rare neoplasm which, because of its histopathologic appearance, has been traditionally considered to be benign. Despite its benign microscopic features, it has an aggressive local behavior and, if not excised adequately, has a tendency to recur locally and invade neighboring structures with significant potential for morbidity, deformity, or even death. Two cases of recurrent extraabdominal desmoid tumors are presented not only because they are highly representative of this disease, but also because they emphasize the need for aggressive surgical treatment. Also, they are unusual and challenging cases from a reconstructive standpoint. Based on this experience and on the most recent literature, we believe that this tumor, regardless of its microscopic features, should be addressed and treated as a malignancy. 
Late recurrent Candida endocarditis. Late recurrent Candida endocarditis (LRCE) developed on a prosthetic mitral valve 22 months after treatment for primary native mitral valve endocarditis. The LRCE was difficult to diagnose; results of two dimensional echocardiography and repeated blood cultures were negative. Only transesophageal echocardiography revealed a vegetation and only lysis centrifugation blood cultures demonstrated candidemia. Postmortem examination revealed a large Candida vegetation on the prosthetic valve and Candida in the mitral valve ring. This case and a review of the literature indicate that Candida endocarditis treated with amphotericin B and prosthetic valve replacement may recur months after treatment, and that LRCE, which is difficult to diagnose and treat, may be best prevented by lifelong antifungal suppressive therapy. 
Differential effects of intrathecal midazolam on morphine-induced antinociception in the rat: role of spinal opioid receptors. The antinociceptive effects of an intrathecally administered benzodiazepine agonist midazolam, alone and in combination with morphine, were examined in the rat by using the tail-flick test. The duration of antinociceptive effect produced by midazolam was significantly less (P less than 0.05) than that produced by morphine. Low doses of midazolam (10 micrograms) and morphine (10 micrograms) produced a synergistic effect in prolonging antinociceptive effect. However, at higher doses (20 or 30 micrograms), these drugs reduced the extent of antinociception produced by each other. Naloxone administration prevented antinociception produced by these drugs, indicating interactions between midazolam and opioid receptors. Midazolam had dual effects on the binding of opioid ligands to the spinal opioid receptors. At low dose, it potentiated the displacement of [3H]naloxone by morphine. At higher doses, midazolam inhibited the binding of opioid ligands to their spinal receptors in the following order: kappa greater than delta greater than mu. These results indicate that differential antinociceptive effects of midazolam on morphine-induced antinociception involve interaction of this benzodiazepine with spinal opioid receptors. 
Neuroendocrine activity in untreated heart failure. Neuroendocrine activity was studied in 60 consecutive untreated patients with dyspnoea and a clinical suspicion of heart failure. On the basis of the so-called Boston clinical criteria the diagnosis of heart failure was regarded as unlikely in 26 patients, possible in 15 patients, and definite in 19 patients. These groups were studied before any drug treatment was started and were compared with a control group of 69 healthy individuals. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentration was clearly raised in patients with definite heart failure and slightly raised in patients with possible heart failure. Plasma adrenaline concentration was somewhat raised in patients with definite or possible heart failure, whereas plasma noradrenaline concentration was raised only in patients with definite heart failure. Plasma renin activity was not increased in any of the patient groups and plasma aldosterone concentration was slightly increased only in patients with definite heart failure. In the total patient series there were significant correlations between plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentration and markers of the severity of left ventricular dysfunction. There was some evidence of neuroendocrine activation in untreated heart failure: plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide and catecholamines were increased but the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system showed little or no activation. 
Intelligence at six years in relation to neonatal bilirubin levels: follow-up of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Clinical Trial of Phototherapy. Results of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Randomized Controlled Trial of Phototherapy were examined for the relationship of neonatal bilirubin level to neurological and developmental outcome at 6-year follow-up. This analysis focused on 224 control children with birth weight of less than 2000 g. Bilirubin levels were maintained below previously specified levels by the use of exchange transfusion only (24%). Rates of cerebral palsy were not significantly higher for children with elevated maximum bilirubin level than for those whose level remained low. No association was evident between maximum bilirubin level and IQ (Full Scale, Verbal, or Performance) by simple correlation analysis (r = -.087, P = .2 for Full Scale) or by multiple linear regression adjusting for factors that covary with IQ (beta = -.15, P = .58). IQ was not associated with mean bilirubin level, time and duration of exposure to bilirubin, or measures of bilirubin-albumin binding. Thus, over the range of bilirubin levels permitted in this clinical trial, there was no evidence of bilirubin toxicity to the central nervous system. Measures used to control the level of bilirubin in low birth weight neonates appear to prevent effectively the risk of bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. 
Chemotherapy for invasive thymoma. A 13-year experience. From 1977 to 1990, 37 patients with Stage III or IV invasive thymoma (20 men and 17 women; median age, 40 years of age) were referred for chemotherapy to the Padova Medical Oncology Department. All patients initially received the same regimen (50 mg/m2 of cisplatin and 40 mg/m2 of doxorubicin intravenously (IV) on day 1, 0.6 mg/m2 of vincristine IV on day 3, and 700 mg/m2 of cyclophosphamide IV on day 4 [ADOC]), recycling at monthly intervals. No life-threatening side effects were noted. The overall clinical response rate (complete response plus partial response) was 91.8%, with 43% complete remissions. Median duration of response and survival were 12 months (range, 2 to 96+ months) and 15 months (range, 5 to 96+ months), respectively. Seven of the 16 complete remissions were pathologically confirmed at subsequent thoracotomy. Other chemotherapy combinations and radiation therapy have been applied as second-line treatment, achieving only minimal responses. In the opinion of the authors, such chemotherapy deserves evaluation for adjuvant and neo-adjuvant treatment of invasive (and/or inoperable) thymoma due to the high complete response rate and overall response rate. 
Comparison of usefulness of high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography and exercise electrocardiography for detection of asymptomatic restenosis after coronary angioplasty. The present study compares the relative usefulness of the maximal treadmill exercise electrocardiography test with the high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography test (echocardiographic monitoring during dipyridamole infusion up to 0.84 mg/kg in 10 minutes) in detecting severe restenosis or coronary artery disease progression (greater than 70% stenosis) in asymptomatic patients 12 months after a primary successful coronary angioplasty. Criteria of positivity were: for the exercise electrocardiography test, an ST-segment shift greater than or equal to 0.1 mV from baseline, 0.08 second from the J point; for the dipyridamole echocardiography test, a transient dyssynergy of contraction, absent or of a lesser degree than that in the baseline examination. The exercise electrocardiography and dipyridamole echocardiography tests revealed a similar feasibility (91 vs 87%, difference not significant). Both tests could be performed in 75 patients. For detection of restenosis or disease progression, or both, the exercise electrocardiography test revealed a sensitivity similar to the dipyridamole echocardiography test (71 vs 71%, difference not significant), but a lower specificity (61 vs 90%). It is concluded that the high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography test is equally feasible but more accurate than the exercise electrocardiography test for noninvasive detection of severe asymptomatic restenosis or disease progression at 1 year after successful coronary angioplasty. 
Pyoderma gangrenosum in inflammatory bowel disease. Since 1954, 34 patients have attended St. Mark's Hospital with pyoderma gangrenosum in association either with ulcerative colitis (22 patients) or Crohn's disease (12 patients). Lesions were multiple in 71 per cent and over half were situated below the knees. Ulcerative colitis was active in 11 patients (50 per cent) and Crohn's disease was active in nine (75 per cent) when pyoderma gangrenosum was diagnosed. Associated illnesses--most commonly a seronegative arthritis affecting large joints--were present in 55 per cent and 92 per cent of cases respectively. A diffuse pustular rash appeared in six patients, synchronously with pyoderma in five. In a further seven patients (two with ulcerative colitis, five with Crohn's disease) the onset or course of pyoderma might have been linked to the presence of non-dermatological suppuration. Pyoderma resolved without intestinal resection in two-thirds of patients. When present at the time of surgical resection (15 procedures in 13 patients), pyoderma healed promptly in six cases, only with additional therapy in four cases and very slowly or not at all in five cases. Pyoderma gangrenosum occurs in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Healing after intestinal resection is unpredictable both with respect to timing and extent of resection. 
Acute atherosis in pregnancies complicated by hypertension, small-for-gestational-age infants, and diabetes mellitus. A clinicohistologic study of acute atherosis in late complicated pregnancy was undertaken. Maternal vessels in the placental basal plate, underlying the amniochorial membranes and in placental bed biopsy specimens, were examined histologically. The earliest histologically convincing lesion acceptable as acute atherosis was fibrinoid necrosis with a perivascular mononuclear cell infiltrate, while lipophages were a late phenomenon. Any maternal uterine vessel that had not undergone physiologic vascular changes could be affected by acute atherosis. Acute atherosis was not seen in normal pregnancies or in pregnancies of diabetic women but was seen in pregnancies complicated by preeclampsia, small-for-gestational-age infants, or both. In pregnancies complicated by small-for-gestational-age infants, acute atherosis was not seen in the vessels in the decidua parietalis. 
Economic issues relating to access to medications. Millions of uninsured, low-income workers (a disproportionate number of them black) are financially unable to obtain prescription drugs for treatment of conditions such as hypertension. As a result, funds spent to diagnose their underlying illnesses may be wasted, and they are likely to suffer complications that require much more costly care. The tendency for income levels to be inversely correlated with blood pressure means that those least able to pay for antihypertensive medication are those most susceptible to complications. Since current programs are inadequate to help most of these patients, there is a need for a joint initiative by the federal government and the pharmaceutical industry to fund programs to make medications easily accessible for the medically indigent population. 
Role of mesothelial cells in peritoneal antibacterial defence. Whether phagocytosis of Staphylococcus aureus by polymorphonuclear neutrophils, monocytes, and peritoneal macrophages takes place when the staphylococci are adherent to monolayers of human mesothelial cells in the absence of opsonins was investigated. Adherence of S aureus to mesothelial monolayers increased significantly when the bacteria were opsonised with pooled human serum, but phagocytosis by polymorphonuclear neutrophils and monocytes occurred independently. Phagocytosis by peritoneal macrophages, however, was only marginal. Pretreatment of polymorphonuclear neutrophils with inhibitors of cellular metabolism and motility reduced their phagocytic capacity. These results indicate that the surface of mesothelial cells provides favourable conditions for the elimination of staphylococci in the peritoneal cavity. Phagocytic motility seems to be important in surface phagocytosis. The inability of peritoneal macrophages to phagocytise staphylococci adherent to the mesothelial cells suggests that they contribute little to the antibacterial defence of the peritoneal membrane of patients receiving peritoneal dialysis. 
Single and multiple dose pharmacokinetics of methionyl growth hormone in children with idiopathic growth hormone deficiency. The pharmacokinetics (PK) of methionyl GH (metGH) were characterized in 20 newly diagnosed GH-deficient children (19 males; 12.9 +/- 3.3 yr old; initial height, 138.8 +/- 16.2 cm; weight, 32.1 +/- 13.1 kg) after the first dose (FD) of metGH and again after 4-5 weeks of multiple dosing (MD). All subjects received a total metGH dose of 0.3 mg/kg.week by sc administration, but were randomized to receive the drug daily (D; n = 12; dose, 0.043 mg/kg) or three times per week (TIW; n = 8; dose, 0.1 mg/kg). After drug administration, repeated blood samples (n = 14) were obtained over a 10-h period. Concentrations of metGH from each sample were determined using a monoclonal antibody radiometric assay (range of linearity, 0.5-40.0 ng/ml; coefficient of variation, less than 4%). Plasma concentration vs. time data were curve fit using a nonlinear weighted least squares algorithm which permitted calculation of the following PK parameters (mean +/- SEM; FD vs. MD group): elimination rate constant (0.23 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.25 +/- 0.04 h-1), absorption rate constant (0.43 +/- 0.05 vs. 0.48 +/- 0.04 h-1), elimination half-life (t1/2; 3.01 vs. 2.77 h), total plasma clearance (CL/F; 0.32 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.54 +/- 0.09 L/h.kg), and apparent volume of distribution (VDss/F; 2.2 +/- 0.14 vs. 3.15 +/- 0.28 L/kg). Both the CL/F and VDss/F of metGH were significantly greater when data from the entire study population were compared on the basis of FD vs. MD administration. With the exception of a larger VDss/F in subjects who received daily (3.6 +/- 0.4 L/kg) vs. TIW metGH (2.4 +/- 0.2 L/kg), no significant differences were found for the PK parameters between the D and TIW dosing groups. In all subjects, absorption of metGH was slow, with an average time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax) of 4.4 h and an absorption t1/2 that ranged from 1.4-1.8 h. Proportionality was also found between the dose and the area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve, suggesting dose-independent PK of metGH. Our data demonstrate that the PK of metGH after sc administration to children are markedly different from those previously reported in adults and, also, do not vary as a consequence of dosing schedule (i.e. D vs. TIW). The apparent increase in CL/F and VDss/F for met GH with multiple dosing may reflect concentration-dependent changes in plasma binding of the drug or, alternatively, represent the effect of increased body mass on the pharmacokinetics of GH. 
The renin-angiotensin system: renal actions and blood pressure regulation. The RAS is part of an extremely powerful feedback system for long-term control of blood pressure and volume homeostasis. Disturbances that tend to lower blood pressure, such as heart failure, cirrhosis, and peripheral vasodilation, cause sodium and water retention until blood pressure returns to normal due, in large part, to the combined actions of ANGII and reduced arterial pressure. In response to increased sodium intake, decreased ANGII formation greatly amplifies the effectiveness of pressure natriuresis, thereby preventing large increases in body fluid volumes and blood pressure. In circumstances in which the RAS is inappropriately activated, the sodium retaining effects of ANGII necessitate increased blood pressure to maintain sodium balance via pressure natriuresis. Because the RAS is so powerful in regulating blood pressure, blockade of the system with ACE inhibitors offers a powerful therapeutic tool in diseases such as hypertension and congestive heart failure. The control of sodium excretion and blood pressure by ANGII is exerted through multiple intrarenal as well as extrarenal effects, including stimulation of aldosterone secretion, which can influence renal excretion. Current evidence suggests that the intrarenal effects of ANGII are quantitatively more important than those mediated by aldosterone in controlling blood pressure and renal excretion. The most important intrarenal effects of ANGII include efferent arteriolar constriction as well as direct effects on sodium transport. The constrictor effect on efferent arterioles also is important in preventing reductions in GFR in circumstances associated with impaired renal perfusion. Therefore blockade of ANGII formation in circumstances such as renal artery stenosis may caused marked reductions in GFR. However, in many patients efferent arteriolar vasodilation caused by ANGII blockade may not lower GFR markedly because of other autoregulatory mechanisms that compensate by causing parallel reductions in afferent arteriolar resistance. In these individuals, chronic ACE inhibition may prove to be beneficial in slowing the progression of renal disease because a reduction in glomerular hydrostatic pressure may help to prevent glomerular damage. 
A randomized clinical trial of ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin versus cefotaxime and clindamycin in children with ruptured appendicitis. This prospective, randomized, double-blind study compares the efficacy, safety and cost-effectiveness of ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin (AGC) or cefotaxime and clindamycin (CC) for the treatment of children with complicated appendicitis. Ninety-seven children were randomized. Forty-seven were assigned to the AGC regimen and 50 received CC. Forty-two patients in the AGC group had an appropriate therapeutic outcome, whereas 48 of 50 children who received CC completed the trial successfully (p = NS). There were no differences between the groups with reference to the duration of antibiotic administration, fever, leukocytosis or length of hospitalization. Complications of therapy were uncommon and neither regimen demonstrated a significant advantage from an economic standpoint. We concluded that, in childhood, complicated appendicitis can be treated with either CC or AGC with equal efficacy. 
Type I transforming growth factor-beta receptors on neutrophils mediate chemotaxis to transforming growth factor-beta. Participation of human polymorphonuclear neutrophils in the inflammatory response is mediated, in part, by soluble factors such as chemotactic peptides and cytokines. Although the cytokine, transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta), has been shown to recruit monocytes and promote the inflammatory process, its effects on neutrophils are unknown. In this investigation, [125I]TGF-beta 1 affinity binding studies were employed to show that neutrophils express TGF-beta receptors (350 +/- 20 receptors/cell), which exhibit high affinity for the ligand (dissociation constant, 50 pM). Affinity cross-linking studies identified the receptors to be primarily of the type I class. In contrast to the receptors on monocytes, neutrophil TGF-beta receptors were not down-regulated by exposure to specific inflammatory mediators. Additional studies examined whether exposure of neutrophils to TGF-beta could enhance specific functions, as occurs with monocytes. TGF-beta was shown to cause directed migration of neutrophils at femtomolar concentrations, thus it is the most potent neutrophil chemotactic factor yet identified. Neutrophil production of reactive oxygen intermediates was not stimulated by TGF-beta, nor did TGF-beta enhance or depress subsequent PMA- or FMLP-stimulated superoxide production. However, the stable expression of neutrophil TGF-beta receptors, and the capacity of this cytokine to stimulate neutrophil chemotaxis, suggest that the pro-inflammatory effects of TGF-beta are mediated by neutrophils in addition to monocytes. 
Bone modulation in sustained hematopoietic stimulation in mice. To understand the etiology of bone modulation and hypercalcemia observed in granulocytosis of a tumor-bearing animal model and to gain insight into the implication of sustained hematopoietic stimulation on the bone tissue, in vivo responses of normal mouse hematopoietic and bone tissues to long-term injections of recombinant human and murine granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), murine granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF), and human erythropoietin were quantitatively analyzed. Osteoclast activation was estimated by the osteoclast-endosteal ratio, determined by morphometric analyses of femoral sections. Medullary and bone areas were measured on transverse ground bone sections of the tibia. Recombinant murine G-CSF provoked marked granulocytosis associated with significant increases in the number of marrow granulocytes and their progenitors, and caused expansion of granulopoietic marrow into fatty marrow. The bone of G-CSF-treated mice showed a significant increase in endosteal osteoclast numbers with medullary area enlargement and a reduction in the bone thickness; indicative of endosteal bone resorption. Although GM-CSF had little effect on granulopoiesis, it caused peritoneal macrophages to increase and induced similar bone changes as those observed in G-CSF treatment. Enhanced erythropoiesis stimulated by erythropoietin was also associated with evidence of endosteal bone resorption. Bone changes induced by these growth factors were not associated with hypercalcemia. These animal studies document association of bone modulation in sustained stimulation of hematopoiesis, and implicate important physiologic effects of hematopoietic growth factors on skeletal tissue in vivo. 
Clinical application of PET for the evaluation of brain tumors. The combination of FDG and PET has demonstrated clinical utility in the evaluation of patients with brain tumors. At the time of diagnosis, FDG PET provides information concerning the degree of malignancy and patient prognosis. After therapy, FDG PET is able to assess persistence of tumor, determine degree of malignancy, monitor progression, differentiate recurrence from necrosis, and assess prognosis. Other studies using PET provide information that may be clinically useful. Determination of tumor blood flow and permeability of the blood-brain barrier may help in the selection of appropriate therapy. Amino acid imaging using 11C-methionine is being evaluated in patients with brain tumors and provides different information than FDG imaging. 
US-guided venipuncture for venography in the edematous leg. A technique for sonographic-guided venipuncture was developed especially for venography made difficult by gross leg edema. Five patients were evaluated in whom venography had been attempted but was initially unsuccessful because of difficult venous access. All five underwent successful venipuncture after sonographic localization of a vein. Ultrasound-guided venipuncture is simple and useful when venous access by palpation is difficult. 
P300 response to tones and speech sounds after cochlear implant: a case report. P300 potentials evoked by tones and spoken words were recorded from a 20-year-old man with a House-3M single-channel cochlear implant. Three months after cochlear implantation, there was a slight appearance of P300 response to both pure-tone stimuli and spoken-word stimuli; 6 months later, clearly identifiable P300 response to both pure-tone stimuli and spoken-word stimuli were obtained. These results are consistent with an encoding improvement for re-establishment of information processing after auditory rehabilitation. 
Behavioral treatment of dizziness secondary to benign positional vertigo following head trauma. Benign positional vertigo (BPV) represents a challenge to rehabilitation due to the subjective nature of the complaint of dizziness, frequent failure of pharmacologic intervention, and complicating psychologic factors. Behavioral therapy was used to treat a 26-year-old woman who complained of debilitating dizzy spells after mild head injury sustained in a motor vehicle accident. During a three-week baseline period before treatment, the patient reported a weekly average of 48 dizzy spells, which prevented participation in independent activities and kept her homebound and psychologically distressed. Nine-week behavioral treatment included biofeedback-assisted relaxation training, psychologic counseling, gaze-fixation practice, desensitization exercise, and generalization training. This protocol has been used successfully to train aviators to combat vertigo and nausea in flight. Our regimen included hourly recording of physical activity, notation of frequency of dizzy spells, and use of behavioral methods during nine weeks. The patient reported 90% reduction in dizzy spells and full resumption of independent activities including driving and athletics. Results are discussed in the context of behavioral problems associated with BPV and application of behavioral methods to the complaint of dizziness. 
Reviewing oral leukoplakia: clinical concepts for the 1990s. Microscopic evidence of dysplasia is not necessary to diagnose leukoplakia. Rather leukoplakia is clinically diagnosed not so much by defining appearances as by excluding other lesions also appearing as oral white plaques. 
Pancreaticobronchial fistula causing lung abscess: case report and brief discussion of the literature. A case report of a patient with an abscess of the lung caused by a pancreaticobronchial fistula is presented. The patient was treated by pulmonary resection and distal pancreatectomy-splenectomy. 
Chinese hamster ovarian cells transfected with the murine interleukin-6 gene cause hypercalcemia as well as cachexia, leukocytosis and thrombocytosis in tumor-bearing nude mice. The effects of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in vivo were assessed by inoculating Chinese hamster ovarian (CHO) cells which were transfected with the murine IL-6 gene in nude mice. Nude mice bearing CHO cells expressing IL-6 developed hypercalcemia. Tumor-bearing mice also showed increases in white cell count, platelet count, and decreases in body weight. In nude mice carrying CHO tumors which had not been transfected with the IL-6 gene, there were no changes in these parameters. These results suggest that increased circulating concentrations of IL-6 in patients with malignant disease may contribute to a number of paraneoplastic syndromes including hypercalcemia, cachexia, leukocytosis and thrombocytosis. 
IFN-gamma inhibits inflammatory cell recruitment and the evolution of bacterial cell wall-induced arthritis. Localization of streptococcal cell wall Ag (SCW) in the synovial tissue of treated rats induces an influx of leukocytes and a cell-mediated immune response leading to arthritis and joint destruction. Systemic administration of the T cell product, IFN-gamma (10(6) U/kg/day), suppresses the recruitment of leukocytes into the synovium and effectively inhibits the inflammation and pathology characteristic of SCW-induced arthritis (articular index 10.4 +/- 0.6 for SCW vs 2.0 +/- 0.7 for SCW with IFN-gamma, p less than 0.005). Monocyte-macrophages from animals treated with IFN-gamma exhibited defective chemotactic responses when tested in vitro and furthermore, monocytes cultured with IFN-gamma (25 to 500 U/ml) in vitro had significantly suppressed chemotactic responses to the complement fragment C5a (p less than 0.005). The decreased ability to migrate to C5a was associated with decreased binding of fluorochrome-conjugated C5a indicative of reduced expression of C5a receptors. Based on these data, IFN-gamma that induces monocyte maturation as reflected by increased Ia expression conversely inhibits C5a receptor expression. Although locally elevated IFN-gamma levels may serve to inhibit recruitment away from an inflammatory site, systemic exposure to IFN-gamma appears to inhibit leukocyte recruitment to the inflammatory site by its ability to induce premature maturation and concomitant inability to respond to certain chemotactic ligands. Inasmuch as monocyte recruitment to the synovium is pivotal in the development of SCW-induced polyarthritis, the ability of IFN-gamma to inhibit this event effectively inhibits the synovial pathology. 
Irreducible inguinal hernia in children below two years of age Eighty-five cases of irreducible inguinal hernia in children below 2 years of age were reviewed. Non-operative treatment was successful in 71 (84 per cent); 14 children required emergency surgery. The younger the child and the longer the duration of symptoms at presentation, the worse was the outcome of non-operative treatment. In 35 (41 per cent) children the diagnosis of inguinal hernia had been made before irreducibility. There is an increased incidence of postoperative complication associated with irreducibility, especially in preterm infants. Early diagnosis of inguinal hernia in young children and prompt referral for surgery is recommended. 
Preoperative radiation therapy followed by extrafascial hysterectomy in patients with stage II endometrial carcinoma. Seventy-four patients with Stage II endometrial cancer were treated by a combination of preoperative radiation therapy followed by extrafascial hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and paraaortic lymph node sampling at the University of Kentucky Medical Center from 1967 to 1988. All patients had histologically confirmed endometrial cancer with involvement of the endocervix. The cell types and numbers of the tumors treated were as follows: adenocarcinoma, 58; adenoacanthoma, six; adenosquamous carcinoma, nine; and clear cell carcinoma, one. Preoperative radiation consisted of 4500 cGy external therapy followed by one intracavitary implant providing an additional 2000 cGy to point A. Surgery was done 4 to 6 weeks after completion of radiation therapy. Five patients (7.1%) had paraaortic lymph node metastases. Four were treated with extended-field radiation therapy and one with platinum-based combination chemotherapy. After treatment, the patients were followed at regular intervals from 2 to 22 years (mean, 5.4 years). Eleven patients (15%) had recurrent cancer, with the vagina and upper abdomen being the most common sites of spread. The estimated 5-year and 10-year disease-free survival rates of these patients are 88% and 76%, respectively. Cell type, depth of myometrial invasion, and lymph node status were the most important prognostic variables in the patients evaluated. These data confirm that the combination of preoperative radiation therapy and surgery produces excellent long-term survival in patients with Stage II endometrial cancer. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome in the mucopolysaccharidoses and related disorders. Eighteen patients with various mucopolysaccharidoses or mucolipidosis III were studied electrophysiologically to determine the presence or absence of carpal tunnel syndrome. In 17 patients this was clearly demonstrated, the only exception being a boy with mucopolysaccharidosis II, age 6 months at testing. All patients had a remarkable lack of symptoms. Carpal tunnel syndrome is a very common complication of the mucopolysaccharidoses and mucolipidosis III and should be actively looked for in affected patients. Early diagnosis and treatment offer the best chance of a good response to surgery. 
Expression of the c-myc protein is down-regulated at the terminal stages during in vitro differentiation of B-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. The translocated c-myc oncogene in Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) and murine plasmacytoma (MPC) has been proposed to be expressed at a stage of differentiation at which the gene is normally silent, resulting in a continuous proliferation and an inhibited terminal differentiation. To determine whether c-myc is differently expressed at the various stages of the differentiation pathway, we used B-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells, representing resting B lymphocytes, inducible to proliferation and/or differentiation in vitro. The c-myc protein, and Ig lambda-light chain and PCA-1 antigen as markers of B-cell maturation, were analyzed in single, morphologically defined cells by immunocytochemical double-staining. The proliferation of individual cells was determined by 3H-thymidine incorporation and by analysis of Ki-67 antigen expression. The results show that the level of c-myc expression correlates to the stage of differentiation and to the proliferative activity. Uninduced resting cells did not express c-myc. The c-myc protein was observed in the highest amount at the proliferative B-lymphoblast stage of maturation and was reduced in plasmablasts and undetectable in plasma cells. The results suggest that maturation of B cells into nonproliferative, terminally differentiated plasma cells is associated with a downregulated c-myc expression and thus support the view that the deregulated c-myc gene in BL and MPC is expressed at an inappropriate stage of maturation and thereby inhibits terminal differentiation. 
Adrenal suppression and growth retardation after injection of periocular capillary hemangioma with corticosteroids. Adrenal suppression and/or growth retardation were noted in two patients after injection of periocular capillary hemangiomas with corticosteroids. Parents should be warned of these two potential complications of intralesional corticosteroid therapy. Baseline and posttreatment adrenal function should be monitored. If iatrogenic adrenal suppression occurs, supplemental systemic corticosteroids may be necessary in situations involving systemic stress such as infection or surgery. 
Trigeminal neuralgia secondary to tumor with normal exam, responsive to carbamazepine. Trigeminal neuralgia is most commonly idiopathic, although it can be associated with multiple sclerosis. Tumors are rare causes of trigeminal neuralgia. A case is presented of trigeminal neuralgia with normal neurological examination and responsive to carbamazepine, secondary to a cerebellopontine angle meningioma. Literature relative to neoplastic etiologies of trigeminal neuralgia is reviewed. The role of electrodiagnostic testing in the evaluation of trigeminal neuralgia is considered. A normal neurological examination and responsiveness to carbamazepine do not exclude tumor as an etiology of trigeminal neuralgia. 
Is laterality important in neck node metastases in head and neck cancer? We present a series of 2219 previously untreated squamous carcinomas of the head and neck, 141 (6.5%) of whom had bilateral nodes at presentation. Bilateral nodes became progressively less common with increasing age but were not related to other host factors. They were also strongly related to the site of the primary tumour, its T-stage and its histological grade, being more common in tumours of the oro or naso-pharynx, in poorly or moderately differentiated tumours, and in tumour stages T3 or T4 at presentation. There were also interactions between these tumour factors, and patients with all three factors had a 25% incidence of bilateral nodes. 126 of these patients could be matched for the main prognostic factors with 126 patients with unilateral neck node disease. The survival rate of the latter group was 9% better than that of the unilateral group. Further breakdown showed that the survival of patients with nodes smaller than 6 cm is not affected by laterality, whereas it is for patients with massive nodes. 
Comparison of accuracy of transesophageal versus transthoracic echocardiography for the detection of mitral valve prolapse with ruptured chordae tendineae (flail mitral leaflet). The accuracy of transesophageal echocardiography was compared with that of transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of ruptured chordae tendineae (flail mitral leaflet) in 27 patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) who underwent valve repair or replacement for mitral regurgitation. Confirmation of the presence of ruptured chordae resulting in a flail leaflet was available at surgery in all cases. The echocardiographic studies were read blindly by 2 independent observers with any differences resolved by a third. Mean (+/- standard deviation) age was 63 +/- 13 years. Men (n = 20) outnumbered women (n = 7) (p less than 0.02), and tended to be younger (p = 0.06). Flail leaflets were identified in 20 of 27 patients. In 1 patient, both leaflets were involved and in the remaining 19 patients posterior leaflets (15 patients) were more frequently affected than anterior leaflets (4 patients). Transesophageal echocardiography correctly identified all 20 patients with flail leaflets, but 1 false positive study occurred among the 7 patients without a flail leaflet. In contrast, transthoracic echocardiography identified only 12 of 20 patients with flail leaflets, with no false positive studies. Transesophageal echocardiography was more accurate, correctly classifying 26 of 27 (96%) cases versus 19 of 27 (70%) by the transthoracic approach (p less than 0.01). This study suggests a higher incidence of chordal rupture to the posterior leaflet in patients with MVP and demonstrates improved accuracy of transesophageal over transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of flail leaflets. 
Carcinoma and DNA aneuploidy in Crohn's colitis--a histological and flow cytometric study. Twenty four patients with longstanding colonic Crohn's disease were examined prospectively with colonoscopy and multiple biopsy sampling in order to detect histological dysplasia or abnormal aneuploid DNA content, or both. Biopsy specimens were taken from 10 predetermined locations in the colon and rectum. No patient had definite dysplasia but three displayed DNA aneuploidy (12.5%), and one of these subsequently developed a carcinoma (Dukes' C at operation) in the ascending colon. No concomitant dysplasia was detected but the carcinoma as well as other parts of the mucosa were DNA aneuploid. It is concluded that dysplasia is rare in patients with Crohn's colitis, but findings of DNA aneuploidy warrant vigilance in follow up as this may indicate impending carcinoma. Further prospective studies are needed before the predictive value of DNA aneuploidy can be determined and before general recommendations of colonoscopic surveillance, as in longstanding ulcerative colitis, can be made. 
Quality of life after bypass surgery for unstable angina. 5-year follow-up results of a Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study To assess the effect of bypass surgery on outcome from unstable angina, 468 patients were randomized to medical treatment (237 patients) or surgery plus medical treatment (231 patients) and have been followed for comparison of survival, cardiac end points, and quality of life; the latter end point is discussed in the present report. Data were available at 3 and 5 years for 80% and 82% of patients in the medical group, respectively, and 77% and 80% of patients in the surgery group, respectively. At 3 months after randomization to therapy, 79.8% of patients in the surgery group reported subjective improvement, compared with 58% of the medical group, 12.6% of the surgery group reported no change compared with 24.5% of the medical group, and 5.5% of the surgery group reported worsening compared with 24.5% of the medical group (p less than 0.01 by chi 2). Similar data were found for chest pain status, and the benefit to the surgery group remained statistically significant through 5 years of follow-up. Crossover rate to surgery was 43% by 5 years. Treadmill duration was increased in the surgery group compared with the medical group (6.5 +/- 0.25 versus 5.3 +/- 0.25 minutes at 6 months, p less than 0.01), and a significant difference was again demonstrated at 3 and 5 years. A trend toward decreased recurrence of unstable angina was present in the surgery group at 1 year (six of 168 [3.6%] versus 13 of 187 [6.9%] in the medical group, p = 0.158), but the two groups were similar at 3 and 5 years. 
Nutritional assessment of patients with extended left ventricular assist device support. The nutritional status of nine patients with end-stage heart disease who were supported by a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) for more than 30 days while awaiting cardiac transplantation was evaluated. Nutritional status was indicated by the following scale: 0-2, adequate nourishment; 3-5, moderate malnourishment; greater than 5, severe malnourishment. This scale was based on serial assessments of albumin, transferrin, total lymphocyte count, percentage of ideal body weight, midarm circumference, triceps skinfold, and arm muscle circumference. Each variable was compared with established standards before implantation and before transplantation times and assessed 1 point if less than the normal value and 0 points if within the normal range. At the time of LVAD implantation, 5 patients had a score of 0-2, 3 patients had a score of 3-5, and 1 patient had a score greater than 5. At the time of cardiac transplantation, 7 patients had a score of 0-2, 2 patients had a score of 3-5, and no patients had a score greater than 5. The patients who were able to meet at least 50% of their daily caloric and protein requirements by oral intake alone were noted. At LVAD implantation, only 2 patients (22%) met this requirement; however, 6 patients (67%) met this requirement at the time of cardiac transplantation. All 9 patients underwent cardiac transplantation, and 8 survived. Thus, it appears that extended LVAD support and maintenance of hemodynamic stability allow patients to regain the desire and ability to achieve adequate nutritional status, which may considerably reduce their perioperative transplant risks. 
The origin of symptoms on the brain-gut axis in functional dyspepsia. It was hypothesized that symptoms in functional dyspepsia are originated by an altered mechanism at the brain-gut axis (one or several) in the process of gastric accommodation to a meal. To test the key mechanisms potentially involved in symptomatic gastric accommodation, the sensorial responses (on a 0-10 perception score) and the gastric tone responses (by electronic barostat) to either gastric accommodation (n = 10) or to cold stress (n = 10) were measured in 20 patients with functional dyspepsia and 20 healthy controls. The mechanical accommodation of the stomach to gastric distention (compliance) was similar in patients (52 +/- 8 mL/mm Hg) and controls (57 +/- 6 mL/mm Hg). However, isobaric gastric distention elicited more upper abdominal discomfort in dyspeptics than in controls (perception scores, 4.7 +/- 0.9 vs. 1.1 +/- 0.5, respectively; mean +/- SE; P less than 0.005). Cold stress induced a similar gastric relaxatory response in dyspeptics and controls (delta vol, 145 mL +/- 40 mL vs. 141 mL +/- 42 mL, respectively); hand perception (scores, 8.3 +/- 0.4 vs. 7.9 +/- 0.4, respectively) and autonomic responses were also similar. It is concluded that an abnormal afferent sensorial pathway (altered gastric perception) may be a major mechanism of symptom production in functional dyspepsia. 
Electrogram patterns predictive of successful catheter ablation of accessory pathways. Value of unipolar recording mode. BACKGROUND. Transcatheter electrical ablation has been used in the treatment of arrhythmias, and most experience has been obtained by ablating the normal atrioventricular conduction system. Less information is available on ablation of atrioventricular accessory pathways. METHODS AND RESULTS. Catheter ablation of overt accessory pathways was attempted in 135 patients with 142 distinct pathways, including 21 right parietal or anteroseptal, 47 posteroseptal, and 74 left lateral pathways. We sought to identify the type and value of electrophysiological parameters associated with successful ablation outcome. For this purpose, the unipolar recording mode was used in addition to bipolar anterograde and retrograde parameters. With a mean follow-up of 16 +/- 6 (mean +/- SD) months, fulguration was successful in eliminating preexcitation in 129 patients (96%), including all seven with two distinct accessory pathways. The first ablation attempt was successful in 110 patients, and two or more attempts were performed in 25 patients. Bipolar electrograms associated with success of fulguration showed a shorter atrioventricular conduction time (40 +/- 13 versus 53 +/- 17 msec, p less than 0.0001) and an earlier main ventricular deflection relative to delta wave onset (-1.7 +/- 10 versus 5 +/- 7 msec, p less than 0.001) than electrograms associated with unsuccessful outcome. The only parameter dealing with retrograde conduction (i.e., ventriculoatrial conduction time during reciprocating tachycardia) was not predictive (86 +/- 17 versus 93 +/- 17 msec). Neither was the atrial to ventricular electrogram amplitude ratio. Two unipolar parameters were found to be predictive of successful outcome: 1) The three different patterns PQS, P-QS, P-rS of unipolar waves recorded at the annulus were associated with respective success rates of 97%, 78%, and 55% (p less than 0.001). 2) Intrinsic deflection timing occurred -4 +/- 8 and 6 +/- 7 msec relative to delta wave onset in successful attempts and in failures, respectively (p less than 0.001). Logistic regression analysis revealed a single independent factor predictive of success, the unipolar pattern (p = 0.03), with an odds ratio of 7:1 (PQS pattern versus P-rS pattern). In the group of 18 patients who underwent a first unsuccessful but second successful attempt, comparison of electrograms revealed no difference in the ventriculoatrial conduction time but a significant improvement in anterograde parameters and unipolar pattern distribution. CONCLUSIONS. Some distinctive electrogram patterns concerning anterograde conduction are associated with success of accessory pathway fulguration. The unfiltered unipolar recording mode (PQS pattern) contributes significantly to optimizing the accuracy of accessory pathway localization. 
A prospective study of cholesterol, apolipoproteins, and the risk of myocardial infarction. BACKGROUND. The independent contributions of subfractions of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (HDL2 and HDL3) and apolipoproteins in predicting the risk of myocardial infarction are unclear. Prospective data are sparse, but HDL2 is widely believed to be a more important predictor than HDL3. METHODS. Blood samples were collected at base line from 14,916 men (ages, 40 to 84 years) who were participants in the Physicians' Health Study. After five years of follow-up, plasma samples from 246 men with new myocardial infarction (case subjects) were analyzed together with specimens from 246 men matched to them for age and smoking status who had not had a myocardial infarction. RESULTS. The levels of total cholesterol and apolipoprotein B-100 were significantly associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction (data on levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were unavailable). Both HDL cholesterol and HDL2 levels were associated with a substantially decreased risk of myocardial infarction, but the HDL3 level was the strongest predictor; the relative risk was 0.3 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.2 to 0.6) for those in the fifth of the group with the highest HDL3 levels, as compared with the fifth with the lowest levels. The benefit of a higher HDL cholesterol level was most pronounced among those with lower total cholesterol levels. Levels of apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein A-II were also associated with decreased risk. However, the levels of HDL subfractions and apolipoproteins did not add significantly to the value of a multivariate model that included the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol in predicting myocardial infarction, whereas that ratio remained a significant independent predictor of risk. After adjustment for other risk factors, a change of one unit in the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol was associated with a 53 percent change in risk (95 percent confidence interval, 26 percent to 85 percent). CONCLUSIONS. This study underscores the importance of HDL cholesterol in predicting the risk of myocardial infarction and demonstrates protective effects of both the HDL3 and HDL2 subfractions of HDL cholesterol. We found little or no predictive value for the levels of apolipoproteins A-I, A-II, and B or HDL subfractions after conventional risk factors and the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol were considered. 
The effect of streptokinase on chest pain in acute myocardial infarction. Treatment with intravenous streptokinase is known to restore blood flow to the ischaemic myocardium in patients with acute myocardial infarction. However, little is known about its effect on chest pain. In a retrospective cohort study, 76 patients treated with streptokinase were compared to 76 patients not treated with streptokinase. All patients had acute myocardial infarction and less than 6 h of cardiac symptoms. Patients treated with streptokinase had a significantly lower need for nicomorphine (median 20 mg) than patients not treated with streptokinase (median 41 mg). Correspondingly, the median duration (3.5 h) of pain was reduced significantly in patients treated with streptokinase compared to patients not treated (24 h). We conclude that intravenous streptokinase given in the acute phase of myocardial infarction is effective in reducing the duration of cardiac chest pain. 
Tumor induction in a rat model for ureterosigmoidostomy without evidence of nitrosamine formation. Twenty rats were randomized into a vesicosigmoidostomy and an unoperated control group. In both groups the 24 hour excretion of secondary amines, nitrate, nitrite and nitrosamines was measured before and after gavage of proline and nitrate, piperazine and nitrate, N-nitrosoproline, mono-N-nitrosopiperazine. The urinary nitrosamine concentrations were not significantly different between both groups neither before nor after application of the several substances. Thirty rats were randomized into two vesicosigmoidostomy groups with and without antibiotic coverage and an unoperated control group. After ligation of distal rectum and mesosigmoid the rectosigmoids were removed. No significant concentrations of volatile nitrosamines could be measured in the rectosigmoid contents of the three groups. One hundred and twenty rats randomized into three groups following vesicosigmoidostomy received the potential nitrosamine antidotes sodium-2-mercaptoethane sulfonate or sodiumpentosan-polysulfate or acted as controls. 12/118 (10.2%) developed adenomas and 25/118 (21.2%) adenocarcinomas at the vesico-colonic anastomosis with no significant differences between the three groups concerning tumor incidence or mortality. The results show that colon carcinomas occur in a rat model for ureterosigmoidostomy without evidence for thus induced nitrosamine formation. This and the missing effect of nitrosamine antidotes suggest that other factors than nitrosation must be responsible for colon carcinogenesis following urinary diversion via intestine. 
The role of serotonin-1A receptor activation and alpha-1 adrenoceptor blockade in the hypotensive effect of 5-methyl-urapidil. Our study had three purposes: 1) to determine whether 5-methyl-urapidil, topically applied to the ventrolateral medulla, produces hypotension by activating serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptors, 2) to determine whether 5-methyl-urapidil given i.v. produces hypotension in part by activating 5-HT1A receptors in the ventrolateral medulla, and 3) to determine the specific site within the ventrolateral medulla where 5-methyl-urapidil elicits a hypotensive response. In terms of the first purpose, 5-methyl-urapidil applied bilaterally to the intermediate area of the ventral surface of the medulla (1.2 micrograms/side) of chloralose-anesthetized cats produced a decrease in mean arterial pressure of -39 +/- 4 mm Hg (N = 8). Prior blockade of 5-HT1A receptors at this site with bilateral application of spiperone (30 micrograms/side) prevented the hypotensive effect of 5-methyl-urapidil (mean blood pressure now increased by 5 +/- 4 mm Hg). Pretreatment with the alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin, did not prevent the hypotensive effect of 5-methyl-urapidil. In terms of the second purpose, spiperone applied bilaterally to the ventral surface of the medulla counteracted a significant portion of the hypotensive effect of 5-methyl-urapidil given by the i.v. route. The dose of 5-methyl-urapidil given intravenously was below the dose that produces alpha-1 adrenoceptor blockade. In terms of the third purpose, microinjection of 5-methyl-urapidil into central nervous system sites associated with the intermediate area was found to have its greatest hypotensive effect at the subretrofacial nucleus. Mean arterial pressure decreased by 74 +/- 14 mm Hg (N = 3) after bilateral microinjection of 25 ng of the drug. 
Initial staging of non-small cell lung cancer: value of routine radioisotope bone scanning. The exclusion of bone metastases is important in the initial staging of non-small cell lung cancer, though there is debate about whether bone scans should be performed routinely or restricted to patients who present with clinical or laboratory indicators suggesting skeletal metastases. In a prospective study of 110 consecutive patients referred for initial staging of non-small cell lung cancer, we assessed the sensitivity of a group of clinical indicators (chest pain, skeletal pain, bone tenderness on physical examination, serum alkaline phosphatase, and serum calcium) for the presence of skeletal metastases as determined by bone scanning. The final staging result was validated with follow up data over at least three years. At the initial staging 37 of 110 bone scans (34%) showed areas of increased uptake, of which only nine were confirmed to be metastases (by tomography, computed tomography, or biopsy). Half the patients (55) had at least one clinical indicator suggesting skeletal metastases, including all patients with proved skeletal metastases. Thus the sensitivity of these clinical indicators was 100% and the specificity 54%. Within one year three of 27 patients with non-confirmed positive bone scans had skeletal metastases, one of which was in the area that had shown increased uptake initially. All these patients had clinical indicators for skeletal metastases and all had inoperable advanced tumours. Four of 69 patients with an initially negative bone scan developed skeletal metastases within one year. It is concluded that in non-small cell lung cancer bone scanning can be restricted to patients with clinical indicators for skeletal metastases. This approach reduces the number of bone scans and consecutive investigations without loss of sensitivity in the detection of skeletal metastases. 
FK 506 ameliorates the hepatic injury associated with ischemia and reperfusion in rats. The effect of FK 506 on regeneration of the liver was studied in rats after a two-thirds partial hepatectomy after 60 min of ischemia of the unresected liver. The animals were divided into three distinct groups of 10 rats each. Group 1 (controls) received 0.5 ml saline solution intravenously 30 min after the induction of ischemia. Groups 2 and 3 were injected with FK 506 (0.3 mg/kg) intravenously 30 min after and 24 min before the induction of hepatic ischemia, respectively. The hepatic content of ATP and serum levels of ALT and lactate dehydrogenase were determined on each animal. In addition, the histological appearance and mitotic activity of the remnant liver was determined at regular 24-hr intervals after hepatic ischemia. All 10 control animals died within 72 hr. Treatment with FK 506 resulted in improved survival in groups 2 and 3 (30% and 80%, respectively). The improved survival seen in the FK 506-treated animals was reflected by a restoration of hepatic ATP content, a reduction in the serum levels of ALT and lactate dehydrogenase, an amelioration of hepatic necrosis and neutrophilic infiltration and an increase in the mitotic activity of the liver. These results suggest that FK 506 ameliorates the hepatic injury associated with ischemia/reperfusion and has a potent stimulatory effect on liver cell regeneration that may make it valuable as a hepatoprotective agent when administered to organ donors before graft harvesting. 
Natural history of indeterminate colitis. The long-term outcome of patients with a pathological diagnosis of indeterminate colitis on a colectomy specimen was investigated. The case records of 46 such patients operated on for inflammatory bowel disease between 1960 and 1983 were reviewed. Using the preoperative clinical information, pathological and radiological reports, it was possible to divide the patients into three groups: group 1, probable Crohn's disease (19 cases); group 2, probable ulcerative colitis (11 cases); and group 3, indeterminate colitis (16 cases). The patients were followed for a minimum of 2.5 years (median 10, range 2.5-28 years). During this period the probable diagnosis changed in five cases only. One patient in group 1 (Crohn's disease) was subsequently considered to have ulcerative colitis (group 2). The other four patients were all in group 3. Three were reclassified as ulcerative colitis and the fourth as Crohn's disease on the finding of a single granuloma in a rectal biopsy. No case in group 3 required subsequent small bowel surgery. These data suggest that patients continuing with a diagnosis of indeterminate colitis in spite of careful preoperative and postoperative assessment are unlikely to show features of Crohn's disease in the long term. This may be important when considering a subsequent restorative proctectomy. 
Ventricular tachycardia originating from the right ventricular free wall in a patient with an old myocardial infarction. A 64-year-old woman with right ventricular infarction had ventricular tachycardia (VT) with left bundle-branch block morphology. Pace-mapping during sinus rhythm and the earliest ventricular potential during VT suggested that the VT originated in the inflow-inferior site of the right ventricular free wall. 
Autonomic nervous dysfunction in essential hypertension. Borderline hypertension, a condition in which the blood pressure oscillates between normal and high values, is a predictor of future more severe hypertension. Pathophysiologically, borderline hypertension is different from established hypertension. A large proportion of such patients have elevated cardiac output and a normal vascular resistance. In established hypertension, the output is normal and resistance is elevated. The elevation of cardiac output in borderline hypertension is neurogenic; it can be abolished by an autonomic blockade of the heart. In addition to an increased cardiac sympathetic drive, increased sympathetic tone to the kidney, arterioles, and veins has also been found. In parallel with the hypersympathetic state, patients with borderline hypertension also show decreased parasympathetic tone. The enhanced sympathetic tone leads to a decreased cardiac responsiveness, and eventually, the cardiac output returns to the normal range. High blood pressure causes vascular hypertrophy, and hypertrophic vessels are hyperresponsive to vasoconstriction. These secondary changes in the responsiveness of the heart and blood vessels are the basis of transition from a high cardiac output to high-resistance hypertension. These hemodynamic changes are associated with a downregulation of the sympathetic tone. A picture of an apparently nonneurogenic high-resistance hypertension emerges. Nevertheless, when assessed in regard to the enhanced pressor responsiveness, the sympathetic drive in such patients is still excessive. Despite the apparently normal tone, the sympathetic nervous system continues to play an important pathophysiological role in established hypertension. Borderline hypertension is associated with numerous metabolic abnormalities including obesity and insulin resistance. It is tempting to view all these abnormalities as a common expression of the increased sympathetic drive in hypertension. Explanation of the basis of the association of hypertension and metabolic abnormalities promises to bring new insights into the pathophysiology of two common diseases of civilization: hypertension and diabetes mellitus. 
The Western Washington Myocardial Infarction Registry and Emergency Department Tissue Plasminogen Activator Treatment Trial. This study comprised a registry and an emergency department treatment trial using recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. During 1 year, 1,028 patients with documented acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were evaluated for eligibility for thrombolytic therapy. Of these, 221 patients (22%) were eligible for thrombolytic therapy under currently accepted criteria, 175 (79%) of them were correctly identified by emergency department physicians for thrombolytic therapy, and 160 were enrolled in the trial. Only 3 patients (2%) enrolled by emergency department physicians did not subsequently evolve documented AMI. In all, 807 patients (78%) were ineligible for thrombolytic therapy: 335 (33%) because of greater than or equal to 1 contraindications, 364 (36%) because of nondiagnostic electrocardiograms on presentation, and 105 (10%) because of age greater than 75 years, or greater than 6 hours of chest pain at presentation, or both. Mortality in treated patients at 14 days was 5.6%, and survival at 1 year was 92%. The mean time from hospital arrival to thrombolytic treatment was 55 +/- 27 minutes. Initial management of AMI with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in the emergency department provided rapid and safe treatment comparable to that reported in trials that started treatment in the coronary care unit. The proportions of eligible patients could be increased from 1 in 5 to 1 in 3, if patients currently excluded only because of age greater than 75 years or because of greater than 6 hours of chest pain were offered treatment. 
Liver viability after ischemia-reperfusion. Lack of a reproducible model to quantitatively assess hepatocellular injury following ischemia has made it difficult to assess new strategies for minimizing hepatic injury. We studied the progression of hepatocellular injury after ischemia and ischemia with reperfusion in rats. Irreversible injury was quantitated using a triphenyltetrazolium chloride assay that was shown to correlate with ultrastructural changes. Adenosine triphosphate decreased to 36% of basal values after 30 minutes, but returned to normal with reperfusion with no decrease in viability. In contrast, viability fell by 30% after 60 minutes of ischemia, and by 64% when 60 minutes of ischemia was followed by reperfusion. We conclude that reperfusion of ischemic liver increases the degree of irreversible damage. The model employed here seems to be useful for studying ischemic and reperfusion injury in the liver. 
Assessment of systolic thickening with thallium-201 ECG-gated single-photon emission computed tomography: a parameter for local left ventricular function. We measured left ventricular (LV) systolic thickening expressed as a systolic thickening ratio in 28 patients, using 201Tl ECG-gated SPECT. Five normals, 15 patients with prior myocardial infarction, 5 with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and 3 with dilated cardiomyopathy were studied. The systolic thickening ratio was calculated as [(end-systolic--end-diastolic pixel counts) divided by end-diastolic pixel counts], using the circumferential profile technique of both end-diastolic and end-systolic short axial images. Functional images of the systolic thickening ratio were also displayed with the "bull's-eye" method. The mean systolic thickening ratio thus calculated were as follows: normals, 0.53 +/- 0.05 (mean +/- 1 s.d.); non-transmural prior myocardial infarction, 0.33 +/- 0.09; transmural prior myocardial infarction, 0.14 +/- 0.05; hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in relatively nonhypertrophied areas, 0.56 +/- 0.11; hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in hypertrophied areas, 0.23 +/- 0.07; and dilated cardiomyopathy, 0.19 +/- 0.02. The systolic thickening ratio analysis by gated thallium SPECT offers a unique approach for assessing LV function. 
Two-dimensional Doppler echocardiographic correlation of dipyridamole-thallium stress testing with isometric handgrip. To determine how frequently new wall-motion abnormalities that are indicative of ischemia accompany thallium redistribution, 47 consecutive patients underwent two-dimensional echocardiography during routine dipyridamole-thallium stress testing. A secondary aim of the study was to determine whether the addition of isometric handgrip exercises to the standard dipyridamole imaging protocol increased the frequency of wall-motion abnormalities or thallium redistribution. Echocardiograms and thallium scans were independently interpreted, and wall-motion abnormalities that appeared with dipyridamole, handgrip exercise, or both were compared with results of thallium imaging. Five of 24 patients with thallium redistribution had new wall-motion abnormalities, and the extent (number of segments) of thallium redistribution in these five patients was significantly greater than in those who did not have well-motion abnormalities (p less than 0.03). The addition of isometric handgrip exercises to the imaging protocol did not distinguish between patients with and without new wall-motion abnormalities or thallium redistribution. Thus new wall-motion abnormalities infrequently accompany thallium redistribution in routine dipyridamole stress testing in spite of the addition of handgrip exercises, but when new wall-motion abnormalities are present, they are associated with a greater area of thallium redistribution. 
An increased number of gamma/delta T-cells and gastric epithelial cell expression of the groEL stress-protein homologue in Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis of the antrum. Numerous studies have shown that the presence of Helicobacter pylori in the stomach is linked to the development of chronic gastritis most commonly seen in the antrum. However, the pathogenic mechanisms are unclear. In 23 of 31 patients, examined due to symptoms from the upper gastrointestinal tract, H. pylori-associated chronic gastritis of the antrum was diagnosed histologically and by growth of H. pylori. Immunoperoxidase staining on gastric biopsy specimens from these patients showed an increased number of gamma/delta T-cells within the epithelium. Furthermore, the Mab ML30 (raised against the 65 kDa heat shock protein of mycobacteria) demonstrated positive staining in the gastric epithelial cells in all H. pylori-positive but not in H. pylori-negative biopsy specimens. H. pylori also reacted with ML30, as detected by immunoperoxidase staining as well as by immunoblotting. Intraepithelial gamma/delta T cells may play a role in host defense against invading H. pylori, and the bacteria may trigger an autoimmune response to stress proteins expressed by the gastric epithelial cells. 
Endoscopic sonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Endoscopic sonography was used to examine the upper gastrointestinal tract of 550 patients referred for evaluation of abnormal findings seen on conventional endoscopy, upper gastrointestinal series, and CT. This essay illustrates the potential uses and limitations of this technique. Special emphasis has been given to the use of landmarks to facilitate orientation of the transducer in both the esophagus and stomach. Specific examples demonstrate involvement of individual layers of the bowel wall in both benign and malignant processes. It is stressed that this is a combined procedure requiring both an endoscopist and a radiologist. Endoscopic sonography is a valuable new technology with substantial potential in the evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract. 
Effects of lidocaine on reperfusion arrhythmias and electrophysiological properties in an isolated ventricular muscle model of ischemia and reperfusion. Transmembrane electrical activity was recorded from endo- and epicardium of isolated segments of guinea pig right ventricles with standard microelectrode techniques. An ECG was also recorded by two electrodes placed at opposite ends of the tissue bath. Regular stimulation was delivered to the endocardium. Tissues were exposed to simulated ischemia for 15 min and then were reperfused with "normal" Tyrode's solution. Rapid sustained or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, bigeminy or trigeminy with characteristics of transmural reentry occurred in early reperfusion in 14 of 20 hearts (70%). Arrhythmias were accompanied by prolongation of transmural conduction time and abbreviation of endocardial effective refractory period. With lidocaine, at 1, 5, 10 and 50 microM, reperfusion arrhythmias occurred in 53.3, 22.2, 20.8 and 14.3% of hearts, respectively. The decreased incidence of arrhythmias was statistically significant for 5 to 50 microM lidocaine (P less than .01). The antiarrhythmic effect did not correlate with changes in transmural conduction time, endocardial effective refractory period, or endocardial excitability. However, antiarrhythmic concentrations of lidocaine selectively depressed epicardial excitability and significantly increased endo- to epicardial conduction block during late ischemic and early reperfusion periods. Epicardial inexcitability extended to late diastole and conduction block was not restricted to premature beats. Thus, in transmural reentry in which the epicardium is an essential component of the circuit, lidocaine may interrupt the circuit by selectively rendering this component inexcitable. 
Intermittent pneumatic compression versus coumadin. Prevention of deep vein thrombosis in lower-extremity total joint arthroplasty. One hundred forty-nine consecutive patients requiring lower extremity total joint arthroplasty were randomized to either coumadin (52 patients) or intermittent pneumatic compression (48 patients) as prophylaxis against deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Forty-nine patients were excluded. When fully ambulatory, the presence or absence of DVT was diagnosed by ascending venography (90% of patients), nuclear venography, venous dopplers, or impedence plethysmography. The two groups were similar in average age (64 years), indication for arthroplasty (pain because of arthritis in 90%), gender (98% male), and average number of risk factors (2.4). Twenty-five percent of patients on coumadin and 25% of patients on intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) developed DVT. IPC was more effective than coumadin following primary total hip arthroplasties (THAs) (16% versus 24% incidence DVT); coumadin was more effective than IPC following primary total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) (19% versus 32% incidence of DVT). DVT developed in 36% of patients following revision arthroplasty. Seventy-five percent of all thrombi were proximal. Both IPC and coumadin were found to be safe; there was no increased perioperative bleeding in the coumadin group. Of three postoperative deaths, one was possibly due to pulmonary embolism (PE). 
Cerebral hyperemia during spontaneous cluster headaches with excessive cerebral vasoconstriction to hyperoxia. Values for local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) were measured in three dimensions utilizing xenon enhanced computerized tomography among patients during spontaneously occurring cluster headaches, during headache-free intervals and immediately after terminating attacks by inhalation of 100% oxygen. Results were compared with values measured among age-matched normal volunteers. LCBF values measured in five cluster patients while headache-free did not differ from similar measures among age-matched normal volunteers. In three patients during attacks of spontaneously occurring cluster headache, LCBF values for temporal cortex, basal ganglia and subcortical white matter were increased. Immediately after terminating attacks of cluster by 100% oxygen inhalation for five minutes, LCBF values for temporal cortex and basal ganglia became significantly decreased below normal values in five patients with spontaneously occurring cluster headache. Prompt relief of head pain by inhalation of 100% oxygen is associated with abolition of the hyperperfusion of both cortical and subcortical brain structures that occurs during spontaneously occurring cluster headaches and is followed by excessive cerebrovascular constriction. It remains to be determined whether the cerebral hyperemia occurring during cluster headaches is causally related to the head pain or is secondary to the pain itself. Rapid termination of head pain by hyperoxia associated with excessive cerebral vasoconstriction suggests that this vascular phenomenon is unique to cluster headache and offers clues to its pathogenesis. 
Characterization of severely and profoundly hearing impaired adults attending an audiology clinic. Despite the fact that around 12 per cent of adult patients attending an audiology department will be severely hearing impaired (pure tone averages of 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz of 70 dB HL or worse in the better hearing ear), their clinical and audiometric characteristics have not been well documented. These characteristics were collected prospectively in 132 adult patients attending a Severe Impairment Clinic, set up to manage their specific problems. The inability to provide sufficient masking makes audiometric assessment of the severity of the impairment uncertain in the poorer hearing ear in 52 per cent of these patients. In addition, the limited bone conduction output makes it almost invariably impossible to assess the masked bone conduction thresholds and hence the air-bone gap in the poorer ear. Hence, accurate characterization is only practical of the better hearing ear in such patients. In 67 per cent of the better hearing ears, there was a mixed hearing impairment, the air-bone gap being 20 dB or greater. The aetiology of the conductive component was almost equally otosclerosis and chronic otitis media. In only 19 per cent was the impairment of a pure sensorineural type, broken down as 6 per cent congenitally acquired, 5 per cent due to meningitis and 9 per cent being adult in onset. In the remaining 14 per cent of patients the type of impairment could not be classified as the bone conductive thresholds were off scale. Having had experience of managing these patients at a special clinic and knowing the workload involved, it is argued that consideration be given to setting up such clinics in most departments. 
An outbreak of Escherichia coli O157:H7 colitis associated with consumption of precooked meat patties. An outbreak of Escherichia coli O157:H7 hemorrhagic colitis at a Minnesota junior high school in October 1988 comprised 32 cases among 1562 students (attack rate, 2.0%). Four children were hospitalized; none developed hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Case children were more likely than controls to have eaten heat-processed meat patties (odds ratio, 6.2; 95% confidence interval, 2.0-20.1; P less than .001) in the school cafeteria on a specific day. The minimum estimated attack rate among students who ate these patties was 8%. The patties should have been sufficiently cooked by the manufacturer to destroy enteric pathogens before they were frozen and distributed. E. coli were cultured from frozen patties that were manufactured at the same plant on the same dates as the implicated patties, but serotype O157:H7 was not isolated. Heat-processed meat patties may serve as vehicles for E. coli O157:H7 infection, and currently there are no federal or state regulatory standards to ensure the safety of these products. 
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) stimulates the production of PAF acetylhydrolase by the human hepatoma cell line, HepG2. The human hepatoma cell line, HepG2, secreted an activity that degrades platelet-activating factor (PAF) by the hydrolysis of the sn-2 acetyl group. This activity was Ca++ independent, inhibited by diisopropylfluorophosphate but not by p-bromophenacyl bromide, and resistant to treatment with trypsin or pronase. Separation of HepG2-conditioned medium by gel filtration disclosed that the activity was associated with lipoproteins. An antiserum against PAF acetylhydrolase immunoprecipitated this activity. It was not recognized by an antibody against lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), which also is secreted by HepG2 cells. Therefore the phospholipase A2 activity of LCAT was excluded as a source of the observed activity. PAF added to the culture medium stimulated the secretion of the PAF-degrading activity by HepG2 cells, while lyso-PAF was inactive. Maximal stimulation was observed with 5 ng/ml PAF, which induced a fivefold increase. The presence of 5 ng/ml PAF, enhanced the secretion of [35S]methionine-labeled PAF acetylhydrolase and cycloheximide inhibited both the basal and PAF-stimulated secretion of the labeled enzyme. We conclude that HepG2 cells produce PAF acetylhydrolase. The liver may be a major source of plasma PAF acetylhydrolase, and PAF may induce the production of its inactivating enzyme by the liver. 
Prognosis in familial non-polyposis colorectal cancer. Familial cases of non-polyposis colorectal cancer have attracted much interest but little is known of their natural history. Using a population based study we have determined whether a positive family history of bowel cancer is an independent prognostic factor. All patients under 55 years with histologically confirmed colorectal cancer in Northern Ireland during the period 1976-8 were studied. The family history was validated in 95% of all nonpolyposis cases (n = 205). Medical history or cause of death were verified for 98% of 1811 first degree relatives. The strength of the family history was assessed using a score that compares the mortality from bowel cancer in the family against the average population mortality, taking account of family size and age structure. The family history score was not predictive of survival neither in univariate analysis or in a Cox's proportional hazards multivariate analysis controlling for age, sex, stage, site, and duration of symptoms. In conclusion, a positive family history does not independently influence prognosis in patients with bowel cancer. 
Nephrogenic rests in Wilms tumor patients with the Drash syndrome. The histological specimens from 12 patients with the Drash syndrome were identified from the National Wilms Tumor Study Group and reviewed for the presence of nephrogenic rests. Of 7 patients with the complete Drash syndrome 6 were evaluable for nephrogenic rests, including 5 (83%) who demonstrated intralobar nephrogenic rests. Of 5 (80%) partial Drash syndrome cases 4 (80%) were also intralobar nephrogenic rest positive. Neither group had perilobar nephrogenic rests identified. In a control population of Wilms tumor patients without the Drash syndrome only 39 of 274 (14%) with unilateral tumor had intralobar nephrogenic rests identified, whereas 26 of 92 (28%) bilateral cases had intralobar nephrogenic rests. There was a significantly higher rate of intralobar nephrogenic rests in complete and partial Drash syndrome cases than in the general Wilms tumor population (p less than 0.001). Wilms tumor patients with intralobar nephrogenic rests and the Drash syndrome present at a younger age and have a higher rate of bilaterality than rest negative Wilms tumor patients. The strong association of intralobar nephrogenic rests in the Drash syndrome approaches that found in the aniridia complex. However, in other syndromes associated with Wilms tumor, such as the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and hemihypertrophy, there is a high prevalence of perilobar nephrogenic rests. In view of the high incidence of intralobar nephrogenic rests in complete and partial Drash syndrome patients, it is probable that events leading to Wilms tumor in patients with the Drash syndrome occur at an early stage in nephrogenesis. 
Carboxyhaemoglobin concentrations, pulse oximetry and arterial blood-gas tensions during jet ventilation for Nd-YAG laser bronchoscopy. Oxygen saturation measured with pulse oximetry (SpO2) is overestimated in the presence of carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb). Smoke produced during laser resection of tracheobronchial malignancies may increase concentrations of COHb. We have measured COHb concentrations in 14 patients undergoing laser resection and compared SpO2 with functional oxygen saturation (SaO2) to ascertain if pulse oximetry is an accurate monitor of oxygen saturation. During the procedure frequent changes occur in ventilatory mechanics. Arterial blood-gas tensions were measured to see if gas exchange was satisfactory. Mean preoperative COHb was 1.4%. There was no significant change in COHb in any patient at any stage during treatment. The highest value was 2.05%. The mean difference between SaO2 and SpO2 was 1.13% (95% confidence interval 0.70-1.56%). Oxygen saturation may therefore safely be monitored by pulse oximetry in patients managed by our technique. Empirical setting of a jet ventilator provided acceptable blood-gas tensions, although sometimes it was necessary to increase the FlO2 to greater than 0.3 to maintain oxygenation. 
Immunologic abnormalities accompanying acute and chronic viral infections. A number of viral infections induce profound alterations in immune function; these changes may or may not be related to direct infection of lymphoid cells. The immunologic abnormalities that occur during acute systemic viral infections such as measles or infectious mononucleosis include suppression of responses to tuberculin skin tests in vivo and suppression of mitogen responses in vitro, evidence of activation of the immune system with up-regulation of activation-associated cell-surface markers and soluble cellular products, and evidence of altered immune regulation with autoimmune disease and elevated IgE. These abnormalities are likely to be interrelated and can become chronic when the viral infection is not cleared and persists. 
Children with pervasive refusal. Four children are described with a potentially life threatening condition manifested by profound and pervasive refusal to eat, drink, walk, talk, or care for themselves in any way over a period of several months. The multiplicity and severity of the symptoms in these children do not fit comfortably into any existing diagnostic category. Long term and highly skilled nursing and psychiatric care is required to help these children to recover. The possible causes of this syndrome are discussed. 
Optimal right ventricular filling pressures and the role of pericardial constraint in right ventricular infarction in dogs. BACKGROUND. Previous studies have reported an important role for right ventricular function in the pathophysiology of the low cardiac output state that can accompany right ventricular infarction. Some studies have suggested that right ventricular distensibility impairs right ventricular filling and stroke output; others have demonstrated that the pericardium can mediate depressed left ventricular filling and stroke output. METHODS AND RESULTS. To determine the role of pericardial constraint and optimal volume loading in an experimental model of right ventricular wall infarction, six mongrel dogs were studied before and after right ventricular wall infarction and after volume loading. The pericardium was then opened in two phases. In the first phase, the pericardium was opened partially to allow the atria to distend freely, and in the second phase, the pericardium was opened completely. The animals were preinstrumented with two sets of piezoelectric crystals attached to the right ventricular free wall, one in the infarct and the other in the noninfarct territory. Left ventricular size was estimated by left ventricular crystals on the anterior wall of the left ventricle. Right ventricular and left ventricular Millar catheters were used to assess intracavitary pressure, and a flat balloon was used to assess intrapericardial pressure. Right ventricular infarction reduced cardiac output by 23% and stroke volume by 30%. End-diastolic segment length and transmural pressure of the left ventricle decreased. Volume loading restored cardiac output to baseline values and was mediated by a significant increase in end-diastolic length in the noninfarct territory. This was achieved by increasing right ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 9 +/- 2 to 16 +/- 3 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). Partial opening of the pericardium mediated significant increases in both end-diastolic segment lengths of the left ventricle and the noninfarct territory. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased slightly by 3 mm Hg (p = NS). Complete opening of the pericardium increased cardiac output and stroke volume and mediated a significant decrease in right and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures. Left ventricular transmural pressure and end-diastolic segment lengths of the left ventricle and the noninfarct territory increased. Left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relations were shifted upward by right ventricular infarction. A partial opening of the pericardium shifted this relation downward in all animals, and complete opening of the pericardium shifted the relation rightward and further downward. CONCLUSIONS. Cardiac output is restored to baseline values by volume loading sufficient to increase the right ventricular diastolic pressure to 16 +/- 3 mm Hg. Evidence of pericardial constraint was observed and appears to be mediated by an atrioventricular interaction in addition to the direct ventricular interaction. 
Limb-sparing surgery in skeletally immature patients with osteosarcoma. The use of an expandable prosthesis. Limb-sparing surgery has a definite role in the treatment of osteosarcoma in children. Increased survival, however, raises problems of limb-length discrepancy and prosthetic longevity. The concept of an expandable adjustable prosthesis addresses the problem of leg-length discrepancy. The problem of prosthesis longevity will require further long-term evaluation of current designs and methods of fixation, as well as the development of a permanent prosthesis or biologic replacement. At skeletal maturity, the expandable prosthesis may either be maintained or substituted with another implant or biological alternative if warranted by the clinical situation. 
Peripheral arterial occlusion in infants--a report of two cases treated conservatively. The occlusion of major arteries in newborns is usually associated with catheterization of the umbilical vessels. It occurs very rarely instead as a primary disorder, and the cause is still unclear. We present two new cases of newborns with this type of disease, which were resolved with the only medical treatment. The literature is reviewed, and the usefulness of the different diagnostic procedures is discussed. 
Calcium channel autoantibodies in the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. We have tested 36 patients with the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome for serum antibodies to voltage-gated calcium channels by using an immunoprecipitation assay with [125I] omega-conotoxin-labeled voltage-gated calcium channels extracted from a human neuroblastoma cell line, SKN-SH. Forty-four percent of these patients had significant levels of antibody (30-1,466 pM) compared with healthy control individuals (less than 15 pM). The incidence of positive sera in patients without associated small cell lung carcinoma (61%) was greater than in those patients with small cell lung carcinoma (28%). Results correlated strongly with results obtained using voltage-gated calcium channels extracted from the small cell lung carcinoma line, MAR5. Anti-voltage-gated calcium channel antibody titers did not correlate with disease severity across individuals, but longitudinal studies in 2 patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy showed a clear inverse relation between antibody titer and an electromyographic index of disease severity. The incidence of positive sera among patients with other neurological disorders was not significant, but 8 of 12 patients with rheumatoid arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus had raised titers (30-82 pM). We conclude that the antibodies detected in this assay are heterogeneous and that some of them are likely to be implicated in this disorder of neuromuscular transmission. The assay should prove useful as an additional diagnostic aid in patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. 
Noninvasive diagnostic assessment of peripheral vascular disease. Noninvasive techniques have assumed an increasingly important role in the management of patients with vascular disease. Both ultrasonic and plethysmographic instruments allow objective evaluation of vascular disorders by the measurement of segmental limb blood pressures, analysis of blood velocity disturbances, recording of digit or limb pulse waveforms, or imaging of vascular disease, with or without Doppler flow analysis or color-flow mapping. These techniques have been applied for screening asymptomatic individuals, diagnosis of symptomatic patients, monitoring of interventional or surgical procedures, and follow-up of the natural history or the efficacy of medical, interventional, or surgical therapy of vascular disease. This article reviews the clinical application of these modalities to patients with peripheral arterial disease and briefly discusses cost-effectiveness and potential abuses of noninvasive technology. 
The role of radiology in evaluation of the failing renal transplantation. Renal allograft transplantation frequently is the optimal treatment for patients in renal failure. This review discusses the current status of renal transplantation, emphasizing the medical and surgical processes that can interfere with normal renal function. Although many insults to the renal allograft are nonspecific, a logical approach to the identification of the decrease in renal function and appropriate treatment can be suggested by some imaging procedures. 
Abnormalities of gastrointestinal motility in children with nonulcer dyspepsia and in children with gastroesophageal reflux disease. In 11 children (mean age 44.2 months) with symptoms suggesting upper intestinal dysfunction (nonulcer dyspepsia), in nine children (mean age 27.3 months) with gastroesophageal reflux (GER) disease, and in seven controls (mean age 20.4 months) we investigated fasting [for 3 hr or until two migrating motor complexes (MMC) were observed] and fed (90 min) antroduodenal motility by means of perfused catheter system; furthermore, we measured both gastric emptying of a radiolabeled milk formula and fasting duodenogastric reflux during manometry by assessing bile salt concentration in gastric aspirates. No structural abnormalities of gastrointestinal tract and organic disorders were detected in the patients. In a high proportion of both groups of patients we found manometric abnormalities of interdigestive and fed motor patterns that were not seen in the controls: absence of antral phase III of MMC; significant decrease of antral and/or duodenal motor activity during fasting and/or fed periods; abnormal propagation or configuration of MMC phase III that was significantly shorter than in controls; bursts of sustained fasting and/or fed phasic duodenal activity, frequently uncoordinated with adjacent gut segments. When compared to controls, the mean intragastric concentration of bile salts during all MMC phases and the mean 1-hr percent gastric activity of the radiolabeled milk were significantly higher in the two groups of patients. We conclude that in a high proportion of children with nonulcer dyspepsia and of children with GER disease, gastrointestinal manometry may reveal significant irregularities of antral and duodenal motility, which are associated with increased duodenogastric reflux and delayed gastric emptying. 
Interleukin 6 activity in infants and children with bacterial meningitis. The Collaborative Study on Meningitis. Concentrations of interleukin 6 (IL-6) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum of infants and children with bacterial meningitis were determined and correlations were sought with other indices of inflammation and with outcome. Forty-two patients ages 1 month to 15 years (mean, 2.5 years) were studied. IL-6 activity was detectable (greater than 50 units/ml) in 30 of 36 CSF samples collected at admission from patients with meningitis and in 1 of 23 controls with fever and normal CSF findings. Mean values were 36,000 units/ml (range, 151-156,000). IL-6 activity in CSF persisted during the first 5 days of illness. IL-6 concentrations at admission were not associated with clinical findings, CSF leukocyte, protein and glucose concentrations, serum C-reactive protein concentration and neurologic complications or sequelae. IL-6 was also detected in the serum of 3 of 14 patients with meningitis and in 0 of 7 controls with no infectious disease. The presence of IL-6 was not associated with bacteremia or with duration of fever before admission. The presence of IL-6 in the CSF of pediatric patients with bacterial meningitis is in accordance with available data on other cytokines and suggests their role as mediators of meningeal inflammation. 
Seasonal variation in growth during growth hormone therapy. Seasonal variation in growth of normal children has been well described, although the mechanism by which it occurs has not been elucidated. The growth of 52 growth hormone-deficient children treated with synthetic human growth hormone was analyzed. A similar seasonal variation was observed, with mean (+/- SEM) peak growth occurring in the summer (8.2 +/- 0.3 cm/y) and winter (7.7 +/- 0.2 cm/y), and trough growth occurring in the autumn (6.9 +/- 0.3 cm/y). Forty-seven percent of subjects grew minimally during the autumn, and only two children showed peak growth in that season. Individual variations between maximal and minimal growth seasons amounted to 3.5 +/- 0.3 cm/y. The seasonal pattern was statistically significant for the group as a whole, for the prepubertal subgroup, and for the boys. The variation persisted when the first year of treatment was excluded to avoid bias of the initial growth spurt. The season of onset of therapy did not affect total growth during the first year. The demonstration of a seasonal pattern in growth of these children suggests that the seasonal variation may be mediated by peripheral rather than central factors. Paired clonidine-provoked growth hormone levels and an integrated concentration of 24-hour growth hormone levels and serum levels of insulinlike growth hormone I measured in a control group of normally growing children were also analyzed and showed no seasonal variation. This further suggests that peripheral rather than central factors are responsible for the seasonal variation in children's growth. 
Erythropoietic protoporphyria: unusual skin and neurological problems after liver transplantation. The case of a woman with protoporphyria who developed liver failure and underwent liver transplantation is described. During the pretransplant episode of liver failure she developed quadriparesis that rapidly progressed after transplantation to a severe polyneuropathy. Following transplantation she also developed a second-degree burn of the light-exposed abdominal wall. The neuropathy resembled that observed in other forms of porphyria, and it is proposed that the extreme disturbance of protoporphyrin levels associated with protoporphyrin-induced liver failure caused this neuropathy. Such a neuropathy has not previously been described in protoporphyria. Erythrocyte protoporphyrin levels remain high and fecal levels normal, although results of liver tests are normal. She remains photosensitive, which emphasizes that although liver transplantation may be lifesaving in this disorder, it is not curative, and care must be taken to prevent photosensitive damage to skin and light-exposed internal organs. 
Clinical course of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in children Previous studies in adults with dilated cardiomyopathy suggest that the presence of arrhythmia, especially ventricular tachycardia, correlates with increased mortality. We performed a retrospective analysis of 63 children with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to determine the prognostic significance of arrhythmias and other findings with respect to mortality. The mean age at diagnosis of the cardiomyopathy was 4.96 +/- 5.3 years. The overall mortality rate was 16% over a 10 year follow-up period. Persistent congestive heart failure and ST-T wave changes correlated with increased mortality (p less than 0.05). No other variables affected outcome. Arrhythmias were found in 46% of the patients; of the arrhythmias, 48% were atrial arrhythmias. Ventricular tachycardia was present in six patients. Death occurred in 4 (14%) of 29 patients with known arrhythmia; 1 of the 5 died suddenly. The remaining 6 deaths in the series occurred in the 34 patients without a documented arrhythmia. It is concluded that 1) arrhythmias are frequently seen in children with dilated cardiomyopathy but are not predictive of outcome; 2) sudden death in children with this disease is rare; and 3) persistent congestive heart failure portends a poor prognosis. 
Intrascrotal adenomatoid tumors. Adenomatoid tumors are regarded as uncommon neoplasms of the paratesticular tissues, probably of mesothelial origin. The majority of cases reported have involved the epididymis. We report our experience with 8 cases of testicular tumors and 11 of epididymal adenomatoid tumors during a 13-year period, and review the relevant literature. The incidence of adenomatoid tumors relative to all tumors in the testis was 6.9% (8 of 116), exceeding that of Leydig cell tumors, which were previously believed to be the most common benign testicular neoplasms. The adenomatoid tumors included 38% epididymal tumors (11 of 29). The clinical course of the tumors was benign, without recurrences. Local excision is regarded as the treatment of choice for epididymal and testicular adenomatoid tumors. 
Microbiological analysis of sepsis complicating non-surgical biliary drainage in malignant obstruction. Cholangitis with sepsis is a common complication of non-surgical biliary drainage and represents a difficult management problem. Microbiological data for 18 septic episodes in 15 patients following endoscopic biliary drainage (EBD) and 14 septic episodes in 14 patients following percutaneous transhepatic drainage (PTD) were reviewed. In the EBD group, all 18 patient episodes of sepsis had blood cultures and 10 had bile cultures obtained. In total, 17 gram-negative isolates and 5 gram-positive isolates were grown in the EBD sepsis group. All of the 14 PTD patients had bile cultures and 13 had blood cultures. In total, 23 gram-negative isolates and 26 gram-positive isolates were grown in the PTD sepsis group. When PTD cultures were compared with EBD cultures, there were significantly more gram-positive cultures (26 vs. 5) associated with PTD sepsis than EBD sepsis (p less than 0.0005). Analysis of the antibiotic sensitivities revealed that a combination of ticarcillin clavulanate with gentamicin covered 20 of the 22 (91%) EBD organisms and 38 of the 49 (78%) PTD organisms. Based on this data, ticarcillin clavulanate with gentamicin is the therapy of choice for EBD and PTD sepsis at our institution. 
Traumatic carotid-cavernous sinus fistula associated with an intradural pseudoaneurysm: a case report. A case of traumatic carotid-cavernous sinus fistula (CCF) associated with an intradural pseudoaneurysm is reported. A 42-year-old man developed traumatic CCF after severe head trauma. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a direct CCF associated with an intradural pseudoaneurysm at the C2 portion. Transarterial balloon embolization of the CCF caused severe subarachnoid hemorrhage. A CCF with an intradural pseudoaneurysm is life-threatening and requires emergency treatment. However, balloon occlusion in such cases is contraindicated because of possible rupture of a pseudoaneurysm. Trapping or a direct surgical approach is the treatment of choice. 
Contractile properties of lower leg muscles are normal in Parkinson's disease. Contraction parameters (time-to-peak and half relaxation time), responses to short tetani and resistance to stretch were studied in the lower leg muscles of Parkinsonian patients and in age-matched controls. It was possible to distinguish between muscle groups of different fibre type composition in normal subjects on the basis of their contraction and relaxation velocities. These parameters, however, failed to show any abnormalities in the patient group. The only abnormal finding in Parkinsonian subjects was an increased resistance to passive stretch under static conditions, presumably elastic in origin. The results are evidence against a contribution of altered contractile properties to muscular rigidity in Parkinsonism. 
Hazards of mattresses, beds and bedding in deaths of infants. Of 52 infants who had died suddenly and were referred to autopsy, nine had lain on adult water beds for the first time; five had died as a result of accidents; two had died on water beds; two were in beds with widely spaced slats; and one had died as a result of strangulation. Three deaths were due to overlying. Three other infants had been placed on sheepskin rugs for the first time and were found dead shortly thereafter. These infants ranged in age from 2 to 9 months, except for a severely mentally retarded nine-year-old with spastic paraplegia. We believe that a general warning should be issued concerning water beds and that soft bedding should not be used for infants. Infants should not be placed unattended or left to sleep on water beds; only beds recommended for infants should be used. Overlying of a young infant is most likely to occur on a water bed, or if the parent is obese or has consumed alcohol. 
Prevalence of proximal faecal stasis in active ulcerative colitis. Proximal faecal stasis may occur when faecal matter accumulates in the uninflamed colon above an area of active ulcerative colitis. This phenomenon is thought to be the cause of symptoms in some patients with distal disease. It is not known, however, how often patients with active distal colitis exhibit slow colonic transit. Fifty two consecutive patients with active ulcerative colitis each ingested 10 radio-opaque markers nightly for 14 days. Minimum colonic transit times were derived from counts of retained markers shown by plain abdominal radiography on the 15th day. The transit times for each patient were related to their disease extent and bowel frequency. Four patients had colonic transit times greater than one week and two others had evidence of relative stasis. The results indicate that approximately 10% of attacks of distal colitis are associated with faecal stasis. 
Ureteral obstruction after abdominal aortic surgery. Obstructive uropathy following abdominal aortic surgery can no longer be considered a rarity. Early hydronephrosis, developing in the first postoperative year, occurs in 10% to 20% of patients; it usually runs a benign, self-limiting course. The incidence of delayed ureteral obstruction, which develops or persists after the first postoperative year, is unknown because it is asymptomatic in most cases. Although spontaneous resolution is possible, it seems that this late form is more likely to persist. The diagnosis of postoperative hydronephrosis is not an indication for urologic intervention. This should seldom be necessary; it should be reserved only for patients with evidence of worsening obstruction or deteriorating renal function. Early and particularly, delayed hydronephrosis seems to be a marker for present or impending graft complications, such as infection or false aneurysms. A prolonged follow-up is therefore mandatory whenever the diagnosis is established as it may improve long-term survival and limb salvage. The need for routine screening for this condition remains to be established. With the availability of noninvasive methods, such a task could be easily accomplished. 
Reversible inactivation of the insular cortex by tetrodotoxin produces retrograde and anterograde amnesia for inhibitory avoidance and spatial learning. Tetrodotoxin (TTX; a voltage-sensitive sodium channel blocker) was microinjected bilaterally into the insular (IC), frontal (FC), or parietal (PC) cortex or the ventral caudate nucleus of rats either before or after they were trained in an inhibitory avoidance task. When administered either before or after training, injections of TTX into the IC impaired performance on a 48-hr retention test. Injections of TTX into the PC also impaired retention when administered before training. One week later, rats with cannulae in the IC, FC, and PC received microinjections of TTX either before or after training in a water maze (Morris) spatial learning task and retention was tested 24 hr later. TTX impaired retention when administered to the IC either before or after training. These findings indicate that a functionally intact IC during and after training in these tasks appears to be essential for the storage of long-term memory. 
Antimicrobial treatment of acute otitis media. No single antimicrobial drug is best suited for all patients with AOM. Amoxicillin and TMP-SMZ, however, remain first-line drugs in the initial treatment of uncomplicated AOM in the non-neonate. In other situations the drug selected depends on the patient's age, associated illnesses, recent history of otitis media, and drug hypersensitivity. Pharmacokinetic studies of AOM treatment are essential in generating more precise recommendations for antimicrobial drug use. 
The high risk of death by alcohol related diseases in subjects diagnosed as diabetic and impaired glucose tolerant: the Paris Prospective Study after 15 years of follow-up. The 15 year mortality rates and causes of death are reported for the Paris Prospective Study cohort of 7180 working men, aged between 44 and 55 years who attended the first follow-up examination. All subjects were classified as normoglycaemic, impaired glucose tolerant or diabetic according to the WHO criteria, following an oral glucose tolerance test. The relative risks of death in comparison to the normoglycaemic group were 1.6 for impaired glucose tolerant and 2.3 for diabetic subjects; for death due to coronary heart disease: 1.7 and 2.3 respectively; for death due to alcohol and cirrhosis: 7.0 and 13.3 respectively. It appears that in this cohort a proportion of subjects screened as diabetic have impaired liver function and disturbed carbohydrate metabolism, due to excessive alcohol consumption. Alcohol should be investigated as a possible risk factor for diabetes, particularly in epidemiological studies where diabetes is diagnosed by the oral glucose tolerance test and the population has a high consumption of alcohol. 
Reversal of a dense, persistent, holohemispheric neurological deficit after an endarterectomy of the carotid artery: case report. The role and timing of a carotid endarterectomy in the setting of an acute ischemic stroke-in-evolution remain controversial. Although computed tomographic (CT) scans typically show no abnormalities in the acute stage, it is generally agreed that a dense neurological deficit (hemiplegia) and/or multiple modality neurological disturbance (involving motor, sensory, gaze, and visual field impairment) represent contraindications to surgical intervention. We present a case of an acute right holohemispheric neurological deficit including dense hemiplegia, hemisensory loss, gaze disturbance, hemineglect, and impaired level of consciousness. This persisted for 4 days while serial CT scans showed no evidence of infarction. Angiography revealed pre-occlusive stenosis of the right internal carotid artery with sluggish antegrade flow. The anterior collaterals of the circle of Willis were impaired, and the right middle cerebral artery territory filled via the posterior communicating artery. Despite the dense neurological deficit persisting for 4 days, a carotid endarterectomy was performed. Gradual neurological improvement was noted within hours of the operation, and all neurological deficits resolved within the subsequent 3 days. This case is consistent with prolonged holohemispheric hemodynamic compromise below the threshold of neurological dysfunction, but above the threshold of tissue infarction ("idling neurons"). Features assisting in the recognition of this unusual scenario and the indications and risks of revascularization in this setting are discussed. 
A phase II study of high-dose continuous infusion interleukin-2 with lymphokine-activated killer cells in patients with metastatic melanoma. Thirty-three patients with metastatic melanoma were treated in a phase II study with an intravenous continuous infusion (IVCI) of interleukin-2 (IL2) given with lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells. The dose of IL2 was the optimal priming dose for LAK-cell induction, followed by the maximally tolerated LAK-cell dose that could be given by an IVCI schedule as determined by a previous phase I trial. The CI schedule was chosen for evaluation because of a postulated reduction in toxicity with the possibility of administering a more prolonged IL2 infusion and because greater rebound lymphocytosis and LAK-cell generation had been reported using this dose and schedule. The 33 patients were similar in age, performance status, and sites of disease to those treated in previous IL2 trials. All patients were assessable for response and toxicity. One patient (3%) achieved a partial response of 10 months duration. There were no other clinically significant responses. Significant toxicity included hypotension requiring pressors (45%), dyspnea (36%), renal insufficiency (24%), hepatic dysfunction (66%), and cardiac arrhythmias (18%). These toxicities reversed with cessation of the infusion. There were four deaths during the first 30 days of treatment, three from infection (one related to central line, one related to LAK cells, one related to tumor), and one from tumor-related hemorrhage. Toxicity was unexpectedly high and at least comparable to that seen in previous studies using a high-dose IV bolus schedule of IL2. When comparing the IVCI schedule with high-dose bolus IL2 to LAK cells in nonrandomized but sequential studies in patients with advanced melanoma, it appears that CI IL2 is less efficacious. 
Lower limb problems in diabetic patients. What are the causes? What are the remedies? Peripheral neuropathy, infection, and peripheral vascular disease can produce serious problems in diabetic patients, particularly in the lower limbs. Ulceration of the foot may progress to gangrene and ultimately necessitate amputation. Distal symmetric polyneuropathy causes sensory loss. Such loss in patients with peripheral vascular disease creates a high risk for foot ulcers, which are vulnerable to infection. Treatment includes relief of neuropathic pain and antibiotic therapy for infection. Pentoxifylline (Trental) improves microvascular flow and appears to be effective against peripheral vascular disease. Aldose reductase inhibitors are being investigated as therapy for diabetic neuropathy. Prevention is the mainstay of management in these patients. Patient education is essential to help maintain health and prevent the potential adverse effects of diabetes. 
Incremental prognostic value of exercise hemodynamic variables in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to coronary artery disease or to dilated cardiomyopathy. To determine the prognostic value of hemodynamic variables at rest and during exercise, 49 patients with chronic congestive heart failure undergoing hemodynamic evaluation at rest and during symptom-limited exercise were followed for 1 year. One-year mortality rate was 33%. On univariate analysis, nonsurvivors differed significantly from survivors in pulmonary arterial wedge pressure at rest (22 +/- 10 vs 15 +/- 10 mm Hg; p = 0.01) and during exercise (32 +/- 9 vs 24 +/- 9 mm Hg; p = 0.003), stroke work index at rest (19 +/- 6 vs 25 +/- 9 g-m/m2; p = 0.03) and during exercise (20 +/- 7 vs 32 +/- 14 g-m/m2; p = 0.001) and exercise-induced increment in stroke work index (0.5 +/- 0.4 vs 7 +/- 8 g-m/m2; p = 0.004), but not with respect to left ventricular ejection fraction, exercise duration, peak oxygen consumption or peak left ventricular hydraulic power. Patients with a peak exercise stroke work index less than 20 g-m/m2 had a 66% mortality rate compared with a mortality rate of 13% in patients with a peak exercise stroke work index greater than 20 g-m/m2 (p = 0.0001). Multiple logistic regression analysis identified pulmonary arterial wedge pressure at rest and peak exercise stroke work index as the only independent predictors of mortality. A receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis revealed that peak exercise stroke work index provided significant incremental prognostic information over the resting hemodynamic variables. 
Unusual initial calcification of primary and metastatic seminomas. Detection by computed tomography. Rare large ab initio calcifications of a primary mediastinal seminoma in a 16-year-old boy and of para-aortic nodal metastatic ovarian seminoma in a 14-year-old girl are demonstrated with CT but not with conventional radiography. They are most likely dystrophic calcifications because of the absence of other germ cell tumor components and infective granulomatous disease. Routine use of CT might detect more such calcifications in untreated seminoma. 
Assessment of factors influencing the outcome of radiotherapy for bladder cancer. The results of treatment of 709 patients with carcinoma of the bladder are reported. Inclusion of the pelvic lymph nodes in the treatment volume failed to lead to any improvement in survival. The factors influencing survival were stage, tumour histology and differentiation. The presence of tumour at follow-up cystoscopy at 3 months was of great prognostic significance. 
Urological manifestations of the Melnick-Needles syndrome: a case report and review of the literature. In 1966 Melnick and Needles described a syndrome of multiple skeletal anomalies in a 3-year-old girl. A dilated ureter was noted but not associated with the disorder. Subsequent to this report there have been 8 additional cases published of patients with the Melnick-Needles syndrome in association with a variety of urogenital and abdominal wall abnormalities. A 10-year-old girl with this syndrome and bilateral ureteral ectasia is described and the literature on this association is reviewed. 
Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with lymphoid stroma (lymphoepithelioma-like carcinomas) of the stomach. Report of three cases with Epstein-Barr virus genome demonstrated by the polymerase chain reaction. Lymphoepithelioma of the nasopharynx is an undifferentiated carcinoma with prominent lymphoid infiltration. Histologically similar tumors have been documented in the skin, lung, thymus, salivary gland, tonsil, and uterine cervix. The authors report three cases of gastric carcinoma that were histologically and immunohistochemically similar to lymphoepithelioma. The patients were elderly white persons (61, 76, and 77 years of age); two of them had previous partial gastric resections for benign ulcer disease. The tumors were located on the lesser gastric curvature (two cases) and at a previous anastomotic site (one case) and measured 3, 4, and 7 cm in largest dimension. Grossly, each neoplasm was a raised plaque-like lesion with a central ulcer. Microscopically, all three tumors were similar, with poorly differentiated polygonal tumor cells scattered throughout a dense lymphocytic background. In a few areas, tumor cells formed ill-defined cords. In two cases, the neoplasms invaded the gastric muscle layer but had a well-delineated (pushing) margin. The tumor cells were immunohistochemically positive for AE3-defined keratin, confirming their epithelial nature. The lymphocytes were a mixture of UCHL-1-positive T cells and L-26-positive B cells. Portions of the Epstein-Barr virus genome were present in all cases, as detected by the polymerase chain reaction. The morphologic features of these cases are similar to those of lymphoepithelioma in other anatomic sites, and these tumors represent a unique subtype of gastric carcinoma. 
Practice patterns in the treatment of acutely ill hospitalized asthmatic patients at three teaching hospitals. Variability in resource utilization. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to determine the extent to which patterns of diagnostic and therapeutic practice differ among hospitals caring for acutely ill hospitalized asthmatic patients in a single city. DESIGN: Our study comprised a retrospective review of the records of patients admitted to the hospital for the treatment of acute asthma. SETTING: Three large teaching hospitals in Boston were the setting. PATIENTS: One hundred twenty-seven patients between 18 and 50 years of age who were admitted to the medical services specifically for the treatment of asthma were studied. INTERVENTIONS: There were no interventions. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: For this group of patients with similar histories of asthma, clinical presentation, and severity of asthma, the diagnostic tests used within 12 hours of admission and the frequency and volume of diagnostic laboratory testing throughout the admission differed significantly among the three hospitals. Spirometry, the test bearing most directly on the severity of the asthmatic attack, was not used routinely as a criterion for admission or discharge at any of the hospitals. Other tests of uncertain efficacy, such as chest x-ray films, were used frequently at some of the hospitals. Patients at all three hospitals were treated similarly with intensive combined regimens of methylxanthines, sympathomimetics, and corticosteroids and had similar mean lengths of stay. The use of chest physical therapy, which has not yet been demonstrated to be effective in acute asthma, differed significantly among the three hospitals. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that considerable variability exists in the diagnostic evaluation of acutely ill hospitalized asthmatic patients in the three hospitals; little variability exists in the pharmacologic treatment of these patients. In the absence of data on outcome regarding functional improvement and reductions in morbidity, we are unable to recommend a preferred pattern of practice from this study. 
Correlation of emergency health care use, 911 volume, and jail activity with welfare check distribution. STUDY OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship among emergency health care use, 911 call volume, and jail admissions with the timing of the distribution of General Assistance, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, and Minnesota Supplemental Aid welfare checks. DESIGN: This was a retrospective study analyzing previously collected census and welfare check distribution data. SETTING: The data used in this study were obtained from the Hennepin County Medical Center, the Hennepin County jail and alcoholic receiving center, and Department of Economic Assistance. INTERVENTIONS: The daily census for the years 1986 through 1988 in the Hennepin County Medical Center emergency department, ED resuscitation room, pediatric ED, crisis intervention center, urgent care center, and alcoholic receiving center was obtained. The numbers of daily ambulance runs, nonelective hospital admissions, Hennepin County 911 calls, and Hennepin County jail admissions for the same years also were obtained. Means for each day of the month were computed across the 36 months of observation. These data were correlated with the number of days elapsed since the monthly issuance of the General Assistance, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, and Minnesota Supplemental Aid welfare checks. MEASUREMENTS and MAIN RESULTS: There were significant correlations between the number of days after distribution of the checks and the average values of the census of the alcoholic receiving center (r = -.96, P less than .00001), the ED (r = -.80, P less than .0001), ambulance runs (r = -.68, P less than .0001), 911 calls (r = -.45, P = .01), jail admissions (r = -.45, P = .01), nonelective hospital admissions (r = -.44, P = .01), and the crisis intervention center visits (r = -.39, P = .03). CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that scheduling and staffing practices of various emergency service areas in Hennepin County reflect patient load variation associated with time of welfare check distribution. Systematic variation of time or amount of welfare could lead to improved distribution and reduction of emergency services demand. 
Intraoperative radiation therapy for recurrent head and neck cancer. Forty-seven patients with recurrent head and neck cancer in a previously irradiated field were treated with surgical resection and intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT). Recurrent disease occurred at a median of 18 months from primary treatment, and was at the primary tumor site in 31 and metastatic to regional lymph nodes in 16. Recurrences were squamous cell carcinomas in 42 and adenoid cystic in five. Surgical resection left microscopic residual disease in 41 and gross residual in six. All patients received IORT with a median of 20 Gy. Two-year actuarial survival is 54.9%, and 15 patients are alive and disease free with a median survival of 29 months. Two-year actuarial local control is 61.5%. A trend toward increased survival (P less than 0.09) and local recurrence control (P = 0.05) was noticed when treating microscopic residual disease as opposed to gross residual disease. Perioperative mortality was seen in 8.5% and there was no increase in morbidity secondary to IORT. The authors believe that surgical resection and IORT is an effective treatment modality for head and neck cancers recurrent in previously irradiated fields and is adaptable to tertiary care hospitals. 
When should patients with lethal ventricular arrhythmia resume driving? An analysis of state regulations and physician practices. Most states have specific laws governing whether patients with seizure disorders can drive. To learn whether similar laws exist for patients with lethal ventricular arrhythmias, we surveyed the Departments of Motor Vehicles in all 50 states. In addition, either an arrhythmia specialist (n = 25) or a general cardiologist (n = 25) was chosen randomly from each state and interviewed to study physician awareness of such laws and physician attitudes toward driving by patients with arrhythmias. Forty-two states (84%) have laws restricting driving by patients who have seizures; only 8 states (16%) have specific laws for patients with arrhythmias. No state makes a distinction between driving by patients with arrhythmias who are managed with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) compared with patients who are managed medically. Seventy-four percent of physicians did not know their own state's laws about driving by patients who have ventricular arrhythmias. Cardiologists were more likely to advise no driving restriction for medically treated patients than for ICD-treated patients. Cardiologists were also more likely to advise permanent restriction for patients with ICDs than for patients treated medically. We conclude that greater legal and medical consensus is needed to guide physicians in advising patients with lethal ventricular arrhythmias about driving restrictions. 
Occurrence of p53 gene abnormalities in gastric carcinoma tumors and cell lines. We explored the state of the p53 gene in gastric cancer. Using one or more methods, we examined 15 specimens from primary carcinomas (14 tumors, one cell line), five cell lines derived from metastases, and seven paired samples of nonmalignant gastric mucosa. Sequence analyses of complementary DNA containing the entire p53 gene open reading frame demonstrated abnormalities in one of five samples from primary tumors and in all five samples from metastases. The single cell line derived from a primary carcinoma had no abnormality of the gene. The six abnormalities included four point mutations, one base-pair deletion resulting in a frame shift, and a 24 base-pair deletion caused by an intronic point mutation (as determined by sequence analysis of genomic DNA). Four of the six mutations mapped to regions highly conserved among species or involved in simian virus 40 T-antigen binding. Restriction fragment length polymorphism studies confirmed that chromosome 17p allelic deletions occur only in a minority of primary tumors, but that they may occur more frequently in metastases. Northern blotting and ribonuclease protection assays detected only a fraction of the p53 gene abnormalities detected by sequencing. Our findings indicate that mutations of the p53 gene are relatively rare in primary gastric tumors but appear to be relatively frequent in cell lines derived from metastatic lesions. Our results may help in understanding the molecular events associated with progression and metastasis in gastric carcinoma. 
Comparison of the clinical pharmacology of (-)NPA and levodopa in Parkinson's disease. Direct acting dopamine agonists are generally less effective than levodopa in relieving symptoms of Parkinson's disease. In an attempt to quantitate and explain this situation, the acute motor responses to intravenous injections of the dopamine agonist, (-)-N-n-propyl-norapomorphine hydrochloride (NPA), were compared with those of the dopamine precursor, levodopa. At optimum dose levels, the acute anti-Parkinsonian efficacy of NPA averaged only about 50% of maximum, while essentially total symptom suppression was obtained with levodopa in patients previously treated with the amine precursor. Dyskinesia severity, however, was similar with the two drugs. These differences in anti-Parkinsonian efficacy may reflect the fact that while NPA acts mainly on D-2 dopamine receptors, levodopa results in stimulation of both the D-1 and D-2 subsets of receptors at a more physiological ratio. Future efforts to develop dopamine agonists for the treatment of Parkinsonian symptoms may thus have to consider focusing on drugs having pharmacological profile more similar to that of dopamine. 
Diagnostic and prognostic importance of comparing the initial to the previous electrocardiogram in patients admitted for suspected acute myocardial infarction. Two hundred fifty-eight patients were admitted to the hospital for suspected acute myocardial infarction. Electrocardiograms recorded on admission (initial ECG) and the most recent available electrocardiogram recorded before admission (previous ECG) were compared to determine whether changes from the previous to initial ECG predicted acute myocardial infarction or complications of coronary artery disease. Initial ECGs were classed as either positive or negative, with positive indicating either infarction, injury, ischemia, strain, left ventricular hypertrophy, left bundle branch block, or paced rhythm. Negative ECGs were those that did not include any of the positive criteria. Positive and negative ECGs were subgrouped as showing change or no change from previous ECG. We found that patients with a negative initial ECG that had changed from the previous ECG had a 2.1 times greater risk for requiring interventions than those patients whose ECGs were unchanged. We also found that patients with a positive initial ECG that had changed from the previous ECG had a greater risk for interventions (2.0 times), complications (2.6 times), life-threatening complications (4.2 times), and acute myocardial infarction (6.6 times) than the sum of patients in all other ECG categories. We conclude that change is a useful predictor for interventions in patients with negative initial ECGs and a useful predictor for interventions, complications, and acute myocardial infarction in patients with positive initial ECGs. 
Clues and pitfalls in stereotactic biopsy of the central nervous system. We present a 6-year experience on 307 stereotactic biopsy specimens of the central nervous system using Leksell's and Talairach's systems independently and either Leksell or Sedan needles. Patients with deep cerebral lesions (basal ganglia, parasellar, pineal, or third ventricle), those located in highly functional areas or those poorly defined on imaging studies, as well as candidates for brachytherapy, were selected. Smear examination during surgery was a routine procedure followed by conventional histologic methods. Ages ranged from 8 months to 81 years (mean, 33.64 years). The series comprised 258 tumors, 28 nonneoplastic cases, and 21 nondiagnostic samples. Of the 258 tumors, 179 were supratentorial, 28 were infratentorial, 36 were of the pineal area, and 15 were from sellar and suprasellar regions. Results of the histologic examination showed the following: astrocytic tumors, 148 (57.36%); oligodendroglial, 25 (9.68%); ependymal, six (2.32%); primitive neuroectodermal tumors, 17, including 14 pineoblastomas (5.45%) and three medulloblastomas (1.16%), seven lymphomas (2.71%), seven meningiomas (2.71%), four schwannomas (1.55%), eight craniopharyngiomas (3.10%), 12 germinomas (4.65%), and 20 metastases (7.78%). Nontumoral cases included six arteriovenous malformations, six pyogenic lesions, seven infarcts, two hematomas, one multiple sclerosis plaque, one Fahr, one progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, one tuberculosis, one cysticercosis, and one Chagas' encephalitis. Awareness of the cerebellar granular layer in infratentorial targets as well as glial reaction around craniopharyngiomas is essential to avoid misdiagnosis. Difficulties were basically differential diagnosis between well-differentiated astrocytomas vs glial reaction, as well as poorly differentiated neoplasms vs metastases. 
Recombinant interferon beta: a phase I-II trial in children with recurrent brain tumors. A multicenter phase I-II trial of intravenous (IV) human recombinant interferon beta (rIFN-beta; Betaseron; Triton Bioscience Inc, Almeda, CA) was conducted in children with recurrent or progressive primary brain and spinal cord tumors. A total of 29 patients were enrolled: high-grade astrocytoma (12), brainstem glioma (nine), and primitive neuroectadermal tumor (three), ependymoma (two), germ cell (two), and spinal cord astrocytoma (one). Betaseron was given by IV infusion over 30 minutes 3 times per week (Monday-Wednesday-Friday [MWF]). Four dose levels were studied, and at least three patients were entered at each dose level. The treatment plan began with a three-step dose escalation for each patient over 6 weeks (initiation phase). The dose-escalation schema for the four dose levels was: 50-100-200, 100-200-400, 200-300-500, and 300-400-600 x 10(6) (M) IU/m2. Patients experiencing an objective response or stable disease after 6 weeks entered the maintenance phase at the final escalated dose, ie, 200, 400, 500, or 600 mlU/m2 (MWF). Common transient effects included chills, fever, and fatigue. Dose-limiting toxicities were hematologic, hepatic, and CNS. The maintenance maximum-tolerable dose (MTD) was 500 mlU/m2, ie, dose level 3. Response was assessed at completion of the initiation phase and at 2-month intervals during the maintenance phase. Objective partial responses were seen in patients with high-grade astrocytoma (two) and brain-stem glioma (two). Thus, four of 21 (19%) assessable patients had partial responses for a median of 4 months. Eight patients had stable disease for a median of 5+ (2 to 14+) months. Antineoplastic activity has been identified in children with high-grade astrocytomas and brainstem gliomas in a dose-intensive regimen. 
Cerebral vasoconstriction during head-upright tilt-induced vasovagal syncope. A paradoxic and unexpected response. BACKGROUND. To determine the effect of vasovagally mediated syncope on the cerebral circulation, transcranial Doppler sonography was used to assess changes in cerebral blood flow velocity during head-upright tilt-induced syncope. METHODS AND RESULTS. Thirty patients (17 men and 13 women; mean age, 43 +/- 22 years) with recurrent unexplained syncope were evaluated by use of an upright tilt-table test for 30 minutes, with or without an infusion of intravenous isoproterenol (1-4 micrograms/min), in an attempt to provoke bradycardia, hypotension, or both. Transcranial Doppler sonography was used to assess middle cerebral artery systolic velocity (Vs), diastolic velocity (Vd), ratio of systolic to diastolic velocities, pulsatility index (PI = Vs-Vd/Vmean), and resistance index (RI = Vs-Vd/Vs) before, during, and after tilt. Syncope occurred in six patients (20%) during the baseline tilt and 14 (46%) during isoproterenol infusion (total positives, 66%). In the tilt-positive patients, concomitant with the development of hypotension and bradycardia, transcranial Doppler sonography showed a 75 +/- 17% decrease in diastolic velocity, unchanged systolic velocity, a 46 +/- 17% decrease in mean velocity, a 295 +/- 227% increase in pulsatility index, and a 73 +/- 34% increase in resistance index. CONCLUSIONS. These findings reflect increased cerebrovascular resistance secondary to arteriolar vasoconstriction distal to the insonation point of the middle cerebral artery. This is paradoxic because the expected response of the cerebral circulation to hypotension is vasodilation. We conclude that abnormal baroreceptor responses triggered during vasovagal syncope result in a derangement of cerebral autoregulation with paradoxic vasoconstriction in the face of increasing hypotension. 
Intranodal leiomyoma. Another distinctive primary spindle cell neoplasm of lymph node. Two intranodal spindle cell neoplasms are described that were interpreted as leiomyomas. Both occurred in young men. The first case involved a single peripancreatic lymph node of a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) who died of AIDS-related infection. The second case simulated a parotid gland tumor because of its location in an intraparotid lymph node in an otherwise asymptomatic patient. Both neoplasms were composed of interlacing fascicles of spindle cells with blunt-ended nuclei that seemed to arise from the walls of blood vessels. The tumor cells were immunoreactive for muscle-specific actin but were desmin negative. These leiomyomas expand the clinical and morphologic spectrum of primary spindle cell neoplasms of lymph nodes. 
Autosomal recessive lethal infantile cytochrome C oxidase deficiency. Three bedouin children with mitochondrial myopathy due to cytochrome c oxidase deficiency presented with progressive muscle weakness, failure to thrive, proximal renal tubular acidosis, and lactic acidemia leading to death. Two died by age 5 months and one by age 16 months. Cytochrome c oxidase was markedly reduced in skeletal muscle extracts of all three. Three other children of the same family with most probably the same metabolic aberration are also described. We suggest an autosomal recessive inheritance for this lethal mitochondrial myopathy. 
Adult paratesticular sarcomas: a review of 21 cases. We reviewed 21 patients more than 16 years old who were seen with a diagnosis of paratesticular sarcoma from 1958 to 1987. Of the patients 14 presented with primary disease and 7 with recurrent disease. The survival of the primarily treated patients was 58% at 5 years, calculated by the product limit method. Of the 14 patients with primary disease 13 had grade 3/4 or 4/4 sarcoma and 13 of 14 underwent initial radical orchiectomy. In addition, 6 of the 14 patients underwent an adjuvant operation or radiotherapy to the groin, or groin and scrotum, and none had local relapse. Some patients also had chemotherapy. Three patients underwent adjuvant retroperitoneal node dissection and 2 had microscopically positive nodes. All 3 patients remain without relapse. Six patients had relapse: 2 locally, 2 in the retroperitoneal nodes and 2 with distant metastases. Only 1 patient (with scrotal recurrence) was salvaged. Of the 7 patients referred with recurrent disease none was salvaged. In this series there is a 2 of 14 (14%) risk of local failure and a 4 of 14 (28%) risk of retroperitoneal relapse after radical orchiectomy. Since salvage has not proved successful, patients with rhabdomyosarcoma, intermediate or high grade malignant fibrous histiocytoma, or fibrosarcoma should be considered for adjuvant retroperitoneal node dissection. All patients should undergo adjuvant dissection or irradiation of the ipsilateral pelvic and groin nodes, and scrotum. 
The IVBF dual-blade plate and its applications. A recently developed simple device, the intervertebral body fixation dual-blade plate, was used in 88 cases of different spinal disorders. This patients in the first series were operated on from 1984 to 1986. The device is biomechanically simple and its application safe and easy. Using a proper bone grafting technique, it is a reliable device to establish spinal stability in spine surgery through an anterior approach. Its application in cases of fractures and fracture-dislocations of the thoracolumbar spine with paraplegia, tuberculous spondylitis, and primary tumors of vertebral bodies is presented. The midterm results, covering a follow-up period of 24-49 months (mean, 32 months) were satisfactory; there were no serious complications directly related to the device. There were four cases of pseudarthrosis due to insufficient bone graft technique. Of these, there were three cases of failure of the dual-blade plate. 
Atrioventricular septal defect repair in infants. From September 1984 through August 1989, 33 consecutive infants (mean age, 9 months; 13 male) received a single-stage intracardiac repair of complete atrioventricular septal defect. Preoperative evaluation of valvar morphology and function involved echocardiograms in 21% (7/33) and echocardiograms with cineangiograms in 79% (26/33). All infants operated on were included in the analysis. Patients with other complicating abnormalities were not excluded. All operations used a two-patch technique for closure of the atrioventricular septal defect in association with mitral valve repair. The newly formed septal leaflet of the mitral valve was repaired using unpledgeted interrupted sutures. Preoperative and postoperative echocardiograms were used to evaluate mitral valve regurgitation and left ventricular dysfunction as mild, moderate, or severe. The 30-day mortality was 6% (2/33). Follow-up ranged from 1 month to 60 months. Postoperative mitral valve insufficiency was mild in 84% versus 6% preoperatively, moderate in 3% versus 52% preoperatively, and severe in 13% versus 42% preoperatively. Mitral valve dysfunction necessitating reoperation occurred in 6% (2/31). Mitral valve function postoperatively was improved compared with preoperatively (p less than 0.001). The low 30-day operative mortality and the excellent late postoperative valvar function demonstrate the value of single-stage two-patch repair of atrioventricular septal defect early in life. 
Progressive deterioration of auditory evoked potentials after excision of an acoustic neurinoma: case report. The authors report the case of a 17-year-old girl who underwent excision of bilateral neurinomas of the cerebellopontine angle. Although her auditory evoked potentials were well maintained during the operation, they deteriorated gradually and progressively for the following 2 months. This seemed to reflect degeneration of the cochlear nerve fibers initiated by operative manipulation in the cerebellopontine angle in a patient who had no hearing when she awoke from surgery. 
Pure akinesia: an atypical manifestation of progressive supranuclear palsy. Two patients with "pure akinesia" who showed the characteristic changes of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) at necropsy are described. They had akinesia but no rigidity or tremor, and ophthalmoplegia was not observed during the course of illness. The symptoms of "pure akinesia" was not improved by levodopa therapy but was considerably improved by L-threo-3,4-dihydroxy-phenylserine. At necropsy, pathological findings were not different from those reported for PSP. It is suggested that "pure akinesia" is an atypical manifestation of PSP, and that norepinephrinergic neurons may be involved in some types of PSP. 
Treatable blindness in temporal arteritis. Temporal arteritis is a common cause of blindness. Prompt steroid treatment limits unilateral visual loss while protecting the contralateral eye. Established blindness is irreversible. We report a case of temporal arteritis in which an eye with no light perception secondary to an arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy regained 6/6 vision. 
Suprasellar and intraventricular blood predict elevated plasma atrial natriuretic factor in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Following subarachnoid hemorrhage, the plasma concentration of atrial natriuretic factor is elevated and appears to be independent of atrial stretch. While the hypothalamus and circumventricular organs contribute to sodium and intravascular volume regulation, their influence on atrial natriuretic factor is not known. We tested the hypothesis that, following subarachnoid hemorrhage, suprasellar cisternal blood, intraventricular blood, or ventricular enlargement would be associated with elevated plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor. Computed tomograms of 26 patients performed less than or equal to 3 days after hemorrhage were analyzed to determine the presence of suprasellar or intraventricular blood and enlargement of the third or lateral ventricle. These results were correlated with the plasma atrial natriuretic factor and serum sodium concentrations. The initial atrial natriuretic factor concentration was elevated and was higher in patients with suprasellar or intraventricular blood than in those without (suprasellar: 131 +/- 20 and 54 +/- 10 pg/ml, respectively; intraventricular: 137 +/- 25 and 84 +/- 31 pg/ml, respectively). The atrial natriuretic factor concentration remained higher over the week following hemorrhage in patients with suprasellar blood than in those without (127 +/- 16 and 68 +/- 12 pg/ml, respectively). The atrial natriuretic factor concentration was not correlated with hyponatremia (125-134 meq/l) or age-corrected ventricular size. Hyponatremia did not correlate with the presence of intraventricular or suprasellar blood. Our data suggest that suprasellar and intraventricular blood disturb hypothalamic function, resulting in an elevated plasma atrial natriuretic factor concentration. The presence of a direct relation between atrial natriuretic factor and hyponatremia remains unclear. 
Factors associated with atrial fibrillation in Q wave anterior myocardial infarction. To elucidate the role of inflammatory and hemodynamic factors in the genesis of atrial fibrillation in acute myocardial infarction, 228 patients with a first Q wave anterior myocardial infarction were studied. Forty-nine patients had pericarditis (detection of pericardial rub by careful auscultation), and 36 patients had echocardiographically demonstrated hydropericardium (presence of pericardial effusion without pericardial rub). During the first 3 days after admission, transient episodes of atrial fibrillation were observed in 10 patients (20%) with pericarditis (group 1), 15 patients (42%) with hydropericardium (group 2), and 20 patients (14%) without pericarditis and hydropericardium (group 3). Although there was no significant difference in the incidence of atrial fibrillation between groups 1 and 3, patients in group 2 had a significantly higher incidence of atrial fibrillation than those in groups 1 and 3. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and the number of advanced asynergic segments were found to be the important factors discriminating the three groups by multivariate analysis. Therefore atrial fibrillation after acute Q wave anterior infarction was not related to the inflammatory infiltration involving the atria but to the increase in atrial pressure resulting from hemodynamic change caused by more extensive myocardial damage. 
Case report: hepatic hydrothorax without ascites. Pleural effusion due to hepatic cirrhosis and ascites is well known. We describe three patients with right-sided hepatic hydrothorax in the absence of ascites. The formation of pleural fluid in these patients is probably a result of fluid movement from peritoneal to pleural space across diaphragmatic defects before ascites can form. The differential diagnosis of a right-sided transudative pleural effusion in a patient with chronic liver disease with or without ascites includes congestive left ventricular failure and nephrotic syndrome. These diseases are usually ruled out with standard clinical tests. Patients with hepatic hydrothorax should be treated with fluid restriction and diuretics. Patients with severe symptoms due to refractory hepatic hydrothorax might benefit from pleural sclerosis and surgical closure of diaphragmatic defects. 
The subsequent risk of internal cancer with Bowen's disease. A population-based study OBJECTIVE--To address the subsequent risk of internal cancer in a population-based cohort of patients with Bowen's disease. DESIGN--Incident cases of skin cancers other than malignant melanoma occurring in a defined population were classified as basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or Bowen's disease. Through medical records, all patients were followed up for the development of subsequent internal cancer until they died, moved from Rochester, Minn, or January 1, 1986, whichever came first. Incidence rates of skin cancer and subsequent cancer were computed; the subsequent rate of internal cancer was compared with that prevailing in the community. PATIENTS--Enrolled were all permanent residents in the population base of Rochester, Minn, who developed basal cell carcinoma (n = 657), squamous cell carcinoma (n = 169), or Bowen's disease (n = 71) on the basis of pathologic examination and clinical presentation from 1976 through 1984. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--The relative risk of subsequent internal cancer among patients with Bowen's disease compared with that of the population base from which they arose was 1.1 (95% confidence limits, 0.5, 1.6). RESULTS--Annual incidence rates, adjusted to the 1980 US white population, were 14.9 per 100,000 for Bowen's disease, 38.8 for squamous cell carcinoma, and 146 for basal cell carcinoma. The estimated relative risk for subsequent cancer was 0.9 (95% confidence limits, 0.5, 1.6) among patients with squamous cell carcinoma and 1.0 (95% confidence limits, 0.7, 1.3) for patients with basal cell carcinoma. These risks were not significantly different for various durations of follow-up or for sun-exposed vs sun-protected sites. CONCLUSIONS--We find no evidence in these population-based cohort data of and increased risk of subsequent internal cancer associated with Bowen's disease or other forms of nonmelanomatous skin cancer. 
Successful management of intractable cryptosporidial diarrhea with intravenous octreotide, a somatostatin analogue. A 38-year-old man with AIDS and intractable large-volume diarrhea due to a cryptosporidial infection was successfully treated with intravenous octreotide, a somatostatin analogue. The volume of diarrhea, 10-12 liters with 8-13 movements per day, was reduced to three to four semi-formed to formed stools per day when the patient was treated with 400 micrograms intravenous octreotide daily. The patient's intravenous hyperalimentation was discontinued and he returned to oral feeding. He quickly regained his normal weight and has now resumed his normal activities. For those patients who cannot tolerate subcutaneous administration, intravenous octreotide therapy may not only be life-saving but may also markedly increase the quality of life. Roxithromycin, a macrolide antibiotic, was also administered to this patient with cryptosporidiosis but efficacy was not demonstrated. 
Leukemia and lymphoma immunophenotyping in cell smears with immunogold-silver staining. The potential of the immunogold-silver staining (IGSS) technique for immunophenotyping leukemia and lymphoma cells in cell smears was examined. Peripheral blood, bone marrow aspirates, lymph node biopsy specimens, fine-needle aspirates, and biologic fluids of 83 patients with acute or chronic leukemias, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, or Hodgkin's disease were labeled. Cell smears, cytocentrifuge preparations, or imprints were fixed, incubated with the reagents, and counterstained with May-Grunwald-Giemsa. Stable immunostaining and good morphologic characteristics allowed accurate cell identification and rapid enumeration of the positive cells. The immunophenotypes obtained with the use of 35 monoclonal antibodies with different specificities were similar to those determined by flow cytometry or immunohistochemical studies on the same samples. This IGSS method was especially useful for the examination of poor samples or complex cell suspensions with rare malignant cells. It could be an alternative to the immunoenzyme methods that generally are used for this purpose. 
A phase II study of mitoxantrone, etoposide, and thiotepa with autologous marrow support for patients with relapsed breast cancer. To further improve the effect of high-dose chemotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced and metastatic breast cancer, we sought to develop a second active high-dose noncross-resistant regimen to use in tandem with our customary high-dose regimen of cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin (CVP). We performed a phase II trial of high-dose mitoxantrone 30 mg/m2, etoposide 200 mg/m2 every 12 hours x 6, and thiotepa 250 mg/m2 x 3 days (MVT) in 31 patients with heavily pretreated metastatic breast cancer and one with locally advanced chemotherapy-refractory breast cancer. These patients were ineligible for high-dose CVP chemotherapy because of the amount of prior treatment and poor-response status. Of the 32 patients, 14 responded to cycle 1, did not experience any grade 4 toxicity, and received a second cycle of MVT. Overall, seven of 31 patients achieved a complete response (CR; 23%). Four of the 14, who were partial responders to the first cycle, achieved a CR after the second cycle. The overall response rate was 19 of 31 (61%) with an overall median freedom from progression of 4 to 5 months and an overall median survival of 9 months. Toxicity consisted primarily of mucositis (grade 3 or 4 in 69%). The results indicate that high-dose MVT produces significant activity, even in heavily pretreated patients. Administration of a second cycle of high-dose therapy with MVT increased the CR rate, and the morbidity and mortality from the second cycle were not greater than that for the first cycle. Because of the high incidence of grade 3 or 4 mucositis with this regimen, we are currently completing a follow-up study of high-dose mitoxantrone and thiotepa alone. 
Radiographic evaluation of intraosseous implants of endodontic materials. Following several case reports of cyst development after endodontic treatment of decidous teeth, the osseous response to formaldehyde- or phenol-based materials was evaluated by a standardized radiographic technique. Endodontic medicaments contained in Teflon carriers were implanted between feline deciduous canine and molar teeth and the permanent successional teeth. Persistent radiolucency surrounding formocresol implants and sequestration of Kri-paste implants were noted in contrast to apparent bony healing around the zinc oxide-eugenol controls and those implants containing glutaraldehyde. These results suggest a greater tissue tolerance to glutaraldehyde-containing agents in contrast to the more traditional endodontic agents used in deciduous teeth. 
Oncogene expression in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and invasive cancer of cervix. Expression of the oncogenes Ha-RAS, c-MYC, and ERB-2 was investigated with an automated image analysis system in 12 specimens of normal cervix, 10 of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade 1, 24 of CIN 3, and 10 of invasive cancer of the cervix. There was amplification of all three oncogenes in CIN 3 and invasive cancer compared with normal cervix and CIN 1. The difference was most pronounced with an antibody to the RAS p21 protein, with no overlap between CIN 3 and the normal range. This method might be useful in screening for cervical neoplasia, and for the determination of which CIN lesions require treatment. 
Reactivity to vasoactive agents of canine basilar arteries exposed to experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. Autologous blood was injected into the cisterna magna of mongrel dogs twice with an interval of 48 hours. They were killed 3 days, 1 week, or 4 weeks after the first injection of blood, and helical strips of the basilar artery were prepared. Contractions induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine, noradrenaline, prostaglandin F2 alpha, and oxyhemoglobin were significantly potentiated. Relaxations caused by nicotine, K+, arachidonic acid, and prostaglandin I2 were suppressed, but the relaxant response to calcium ionophore A23187 and substance P did not change significantly. These results suggest that contractions mediated via activation of alpha, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and prostaglandin F2 alpha receptors are potentiated, and relaxations caused by stimulation of vasodilator nerves and by endogenous and exogenous prostaglandin I2 are attenuated in dog basilar arteries exposed to subarachnoid clot. On the other hand, certain relaxations possibly mediated by endothelium-derived relaxing factor do not appear to be significantly influenced. 
Invasive treatment for coronary artery disease in the elderly. The widespread availability of coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty presents important treatment options for the older patient. The findings from a number of surgical series of coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty are summarized. Certain trends are evident. Perioperative mortality, cardiovascular morbidity, and other complications, while declining, remain somewhat higher in elderly patients. However, the impact of age alone is slight. In both coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, complications are more closely correlated with the presence of serious concomitant disease. Long-term survival and pain relief after coronary artery bypass grafting are excellent in older patients, and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty may be the treatment of choice in some elderly patients with coronary artery disease. As in younger patients, prolongation of survival should not be the exclusive goal. Rather, a focus on quality of life and freedom from dependency should be seriously considered. 
Reduced cerebral grey matter observed in alcoholics using magnetic resonance imaging. Twenty-eight chronic alcoholics and 36 age- and sex-matched non-alcoholic controls were examined with magnetic resonance imaging and brain morphometric analyses. Results confirmed large increases in subarachnoid cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) volume and mild ventricular enlargement in the alcoholics and revealed associated volume reductions of localized cortical and subcortical cerebral structures. Volume losses in the diencephalon, the caudate nucleus, dorsolateral frontal and parietal cortex, and mesial temporal lobe structures were the most prominent. Significant correlations between increments in cortical and ventricular CSF and decrements in the volume of cortical and subcortical grey matter were noted. Although there was little evidence for relationships between performance on neuropsychological tests and volume of grey matter structures, significant correlations between some cognitive measures and subcortical and cortical fluid volumes were found. The parallels between this pattern of affected structures and recent neuropathological findings are discussed. 
Influence of anesthesiology residents' noncognitive skills on the occurrence of critical incidents and the residents' overall clinical performances. The authors examined residents' clinical performances in five anesthesiology departments in U.S. teaching hospitals. The data were organized by daily use of the Clinical Anesthesia System of Evaluation, which categorizes and quantifies the narrative comments of faculty. The study was designed to identify predictor categories (particular performance characteristics of residents) for the residents' overall performances and their scores in handling critical incidents (those incidents that could or would have caused significant morbidity or mortality had faculty not intervened). More than 9,000 comments made by 163 faculty about 45 residents were analyzed. Residents' noncognitive skills that were predictors of overall performance were Conscientiousness, Management, Confidence, Critical Incidents, and Knowledge. Conscientiousness and Composure predicted two-thirds of the variability in critical incidents' scores. Path analysis verified causal relationships between the hypothesized predictors and critical incidents. For the residents studied, inadequate noncognitive performance in some areas was a powerful (p less than .0005) predictor of overall clinical performance and was related to the occurrence of critical incidents. 
Childhood blindness in the Republic of Ireland: a national survey. We completed a national study of blindness in children under 16. Approximately 80% of the blind children (that is, with vision of 3/60 or less) in the Republic of Ireland (172 children) were seen, 93 males and 79 females. The survey was carried out between July 1989 and June 1990. It is the first such study to be carried out. Ninety seven (56%) children had lesions due to factors acting before the perinatal period. Of these, 28 (16% of the total number surveyed) had lesions due to genetic causes; 69 (40%) had lesions due to factors operating in the prenatal period other than genetic factors. Forty six (27%) had lesions due to factors acting in the perinatal period. Twenty two (13%) had lesions due to factors acting in childhood. (4% could not be categorised in this way). The commonest single primary diagnoses were birth asphyxia in 19 (11%) cases and retinopathy of prematurity in 19 (11%) cases. 
Binding of anti-acetaldehyde IgG antibodies to hepatocytes with an acetaldehyde-phosphatidylethanolamine adduct on their surface. We have previously shown that antibodies raised against acetaldehyde adducts of protein cross-react with an acetaldehyde adduct of dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine, N-ethyl-dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine, when the latter is incorporated into hexagonal phase phospholipid micelles. In the present study we demonstrate that these same IgG antibodies cross-react with N-ethyl-dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine when this adduct is incorporated into the surface of hepatocytes. Hapten-specific IgG antibodies were purified from the sera of rabbits sensitized to an albumin-acetaldehyde conjugate that had been reduced with sodium cyanoborohydride (N-ethyl-RSA). The N-ethyl-RSA was coupled to an Affi-Gel-10 column to affinity purify the IgG. Liposomes containing N-ethyl-dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine were fused with isolated hepatocytes, the affinity purified primary IgG antibodies were added, then fluorescein-conjugated second antibodies were added, and antibody binding to hepatocytes was measured by flow cytometry. The fluorescence of these hepatocytes was significantly greater (p less than 0.01) than control hepatocytes prepared with (1) pre-immune primary IgG antibodies with fluorescein-conjugated second antibodies, (2) no primary antibody but with fluorescein-conjugated second antibodies, and (3) no fluorescein-conjugated second antibodies. 
Postoperative hyperbilirubinemia after resection of thoracic esophageal cancer. The rate of occurrence of postoperative hyperbilirubinemia (PHB) following esophagectomy for thoracic esophageal cancer was 67%, 115/171 cases, which was significantly higher than those following total gastrectomy (28%, 40/144 cases) and colectomy (12%, 7/59 cases). Among the operative procedures, right thoracotomy with extensive lymphoadenectomy had the highest rate of PHB (87%), perhaps due to the longest operation time and the largest intraoperative blood loss. Preoperative risk factors were glucose intolerance, reduced lymphocyte count, and poor nutritional state. The change in bile acid composition, as well as the elevation of alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, indicated the presence of postoperative cholestasis which was relevant to total parenteral nutrition. The results suggest that the development of PHB was related to the extent of surgery and the use of parenteral nutrition. 
Intrathoracic meningocele associated with neurofibromatosis: case report. The authors present a case of intrathoracic meningocele associated with neurofibromatosis. Computed tomography with metrizamide myelography proved valuable in locating the lesion, thus facilitating surgical intervention. With the preoperative diagnosis established and the severity of the meningocele known, the surgeons safely employed a subpleural approach at thoracotomy. 
Stapes surgery: complications and airway infection. From a group of 1,111 patients who had stapedectomy or stapedotomy performed in a 10-year period, a thorough investigation was made of 11 patients who had a total hearing loss and 8 patients who developed a partial sensorineural hearing loss after operation. The data obtained indicate that postoperative infection with influenza virus may be responsible for unexpected complications following stapedectomy. A close relation was found between the appearance of complications and periods of epidemics of influenza. 
Carotenoids and liposoluble vitamins in liver cirrhosis. The role played by carotenoids, retinol and tocopherol in quencing oxidative cellular damage and combatting tumor growth is well documented, but little is known about their activity in human liver cirrhosis (LC), where oxidative damage and tumoral complications are common-place. We investigated 59 patients with LC of different etiology on admission to hospital and compared them with 32 healthy controls, matched for age and sex. Nutritional (cutaneous skinfolds, creatinine-height index) and serum parameters were determined; of these, alpha- and beta-carotene, cryptoxanthin, lycopene, retinol and alpha-tocopherol were detected by an high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) technique, devised in our laboratory, which afforded an accurate and simultaneous resolution of all six compounds. The results point to a significant reduction in almost all the vitamin factors in LC, as well as in total serum lipids. In consequence, the ratio tocopherol/total serum lipids remains almost unchanged: 2.45 +/- 0.08 (m +/- se) in controls and 2.34 +/- 0.16 in patients. The effects of age, sex, nutritional habits, alcohol, malnutrition and the severity of the disease were also evaluated in relation to the vitamin-factor levels. It is suggested that the reduced levels observed in LC patients are due to a number of factors including portal hypertension and lymphatic circulation impairment, and it is concluded that thorough screening and improved diet are beneficial in the follow-up of LC. 
Intracellular compartmentation of cardiac troponin T and its release kinetics in patients with reperfused and nonreperfused myocardial infarction. In a previous study on the diagnostic efficiency of troponin T measurements in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction (AMI), the authors found a high variability of troponin T serum concentration changes on day 1 in patients with AMI who underwent thrombolytic treatment. Therefore, the aims of the present study were to investigate the intracellular compartmentation of troponin T and to analyze the effects of AMI reperfusion on the appearance kinetics of cardiac troponin T in serum. Cardiac troponin T was measured with a newly developed bideterminant sandwich assay using cardiospecific, affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies and peroxidase-labeled monoclonal antibody. An unbound cytosolic troponin T pool was found in ultracentrifuged homogenates of myocardial tissue of different species ranging from 0.013 to 0.036 mg/g wet weight. The soluble troponin T molecule had electrophoretic properties identical to troponin T compartmented in the myofibrils. The clinical study group comprised 57 patients with AMI undergoing thrombolytic treatment. Blood flow to the infarct zone and point of time of reperfusion were tested by immediate and late angiography. The appearance of troponin T in serum on day 1 after the onset of AMI depended strongly on reperfusion and on duration of ischemia before reperfusion. Thus, in patients with early reperfused AMI, a marked peak in troponin T serum concentrations was found at 14 hours after the onset of pain. This early troponin T peak was absent in patients with AMI reperfusion occurring greater than 5.5 hours after the onset of pain and in patients with nonreperfused AMI. By contrast, the kinetics of troponin T release after the first day after AMI were unaffected by reperfusion. 
Adenomatoid hyperplasia of minor salivary glands. Adenomatoid hyperplasia of minor salivary glands is an uncommon clinicopathologic entity. It comprises clinical swelling resembling a neoplasm with a histologic picture of aggregates of normal-appearing salivary gland tissue in excess of that anticipated for the anatomic site. The significance of this lesion is derived from its clinical resemblance to a neoplasm of salivary gland origin. This study adds 40 new cases to the literature and analyzes their clinical and histologic features. Most of the lesions were located on the hard and soft palates. The exact nature of the minor salivary gland hyperplasia is not clear. Some of the cases may represent a hamartoma or a reactive hyperplasia, but in most cases the nature of the hyperplasia is idiopathic. 
Sonography of focal lesions of the spleen. The sonographic appearances of benign and malignant splenic lesions in 154 patients are illustrated. Sixty-six of the 154 patients had malignant splenic lesions; 55 of these had malignant lymphoma and 11 had splenic metastatic lesions. The lesions were hypoechoic in 64 cases (97%), including all cases of malignant lymphoma, and were hyperechoic in two. Eighty-eight patients had benign splenic lesions; findings included cysts, infarcts, abscesses, hemangiomas, and calcifications. 
"Ex vivo" release of eicosanoid from human brain tissue: its relevance in the development of brain edema. The specific mechanism underlying the genesis of vasogenic brain edema is still debated: the role of arachidonic acid is considered extremely important, as it is a possible activator of self-maintaining reactions enhancing the release of vasoactive and cytotoxic compounds. The relationship between arachidonic acid metabolism and brain edema has been studied primarily in brain tissue samples or in the extracellular fluid, whereas the residual capacity of perilesional tissue to synthesize and release eicosanoids has not been investigated. In the present study, perilesional samples of brain tissue were available from 4 patients operated on for brain metastasis, from 8 patients who had malignant neuroepithelial tumors, from 4 with meningiomas, and from 5 with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A brain edema index was calculated from the preoperative computed tomographic scan. The "ex vivo" method allowed determination of the residual capacity of endogenous arachidonic acid metabolism. The edema index is significantly higher in patients with brain metastasis (6.5 +/- 0.8) and neuroepithelial tumors (3.6 +/- 0.2) than in those with meningiomas (1.5 +/- 0.06), subarachnoid hemorrhage (1.7 +/- 0.18), and in controls. In patients with metastatic and neuroepithelial tumors there is a significant correlation between peritumoral brain edema and the capacity to synthesize leukotriene C4 (P less than 0.05); the capacity to synthesize leukotriene C4 is also significantly elevated after subarachnoid hemorrhage (13.91 +/- 2.6 ng/ml of incubation medium) when compared with control cases (5.56 +/- 0.91). The capacity to synthesize prostacyclin is significantly higher in patients with brain metastasis than in those with neuroepithelial tumors and meningiomas (P less than 0.05). 
Loss of heterozygosity suggests multiple genetic alterations in pheochromocytomas and medullary thyroid carcinomas. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at specific loci may help localize tumor suppressor genes involved in the formation of various familial and sporadic tumors. In addition, the genetic loci for a number of familial tumor syndromes have been mapped by linkage analysis. To explore the possible role of tumor suppressor genes in endocrine tumors, we tested 41 pheochromocytomas (34 sporadic and 7 familial) and 11 medullary thyroid cancers (MTC) (10 sporadic and 1 familial) for LOH near a variety of potentially important genetic loci: (a) the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) locus on chromosome 10; (b) the von Hippel-Lindau locus on 3p; and (c) the p53 and neurofibromatosis 1 loci on 17. We also examined chromosomes 1p and 22q because previous studies in a small number of pheochromocytomas and MTCs suggested LOH in these regions. Background rates for LOH were assessed using several "random" probes. Finally, we examined a number of clinical and histologic characteristics of these tumors for possible correlations with specific genetic alterations. LOH in the region of the MEN 2A locus was uncommon (0% for MTCs, 5% for pheochromocytomas). However, we found significant allelic losses in pheochromocytomas on chromosomes 1p (42%), 3p (16%), 17p (24%), and 22q (31%). We also noted a correlation between LOH on 1p and urinary excretion of metanephrine by these patients (P = 0.02). LOH on 1p, 3p, and 17p also appeared to be associated with increased tumor volume. Analysis of the smaller number of MTCs demonstrated allelic losses on chromosomes 1p and 22q. Our results suggest that tumor formation and/or progression in pheochromocytomas and MTCs involves multiple genes, analogous with the model proposed for colon carcinoma. 
Differences in the leucine aminopeptidase activity in extracts from human prostatic carcinoma and benign prostatic hyperplasia. Extracts of tissue showed that prostatic carcinomas contain less leucine aminopeptidase activity than benign prostatic hyperplasia. This is true when activity is expressed as specific activity (P = 0.0033), specific activity/% epithelium (P = 0.0007), activity/wet weight of tissue (P = 0.0028), or activity/wet weight of tissue/% epithelium (P = 0.0005). Almost all histochemically demonstrable activity is located in the epithelium. Enzymatic activities in extracts and in histochemical preparations showed similar differences between carcinoma and benign prostatic hyperplasia and were related (R = -0.38, P = 0.0400) to Gleason's grades. The transurethrally resected prostate cancers studied contained no well-differentiated tumors and a high proportion of poorly differentiated tumors. Histochemical activity is absent in most prostatic carcinomas and decreased in others. This observation is particularly interesting in view of the growing knowledge of tumor suppressor genes. 
Dopaminergic induced changes in cognitive and motor processing in Parkinson's disease: an electrophysiological investigation. Event-related potentials and reaction time measures to auditory discrimination tasks of graded difficulty were used to separate cognitive from motor processing time in 27 patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated Parkinson's disease and later on optimal levodopa treatment. Before treatment event-related potential P3 and task performance were normal but the reaction time was prolonged compared with age matched controls. After treatment P3 latency was significantly prolonged and the reaction time reduced suggesting a dopamine induced dissociation between cognitive and motor processing. In early Parkinson's disease cognitive processing time remains normal but the motor processing time is prolonged. Dopamine replacement is followed by significantly reduced motor processing time despite increased cognitive processing time. Motor processing may reflect the dopamine status of the putamen whereas dopaminergic over-stimulation of other regions may adversely affect cognitive processing in patients treated with levodopa. 
Thrombotic and hemorrhagic complications in essential thrombocythemia. A retrospective study of 103 patients. A retrospective study of 103 patients with essential thrombocythemia was carried out to evaluate the incidence of thrombohemorrhagic complications and establish whether there were any correlations between these events and clinical or laboratory data. At onset or during the course of the disease, 26 patients (25.2%) presented thrombotic and 12 (11.6%) hemorrhagic complications: among the latter, six patients had gastrointestinal bleeding during antiaggregant therapy. No significant correlations were observed between thrombohemorrhagic complications and platelet count, age, sex, platelet function, bleeding time, or therapeutic regimen. However, there was a statistically significant correlation between a positive patient history for thrombotic events and an increase in thromboses. In agreement with other authors, it is believed that the best approach in asymptomatic patients is strict surveillance without treatment. Chemotherapy and/or treatment with antiaggregant agents should be reserved for symptomatic patients or patients with a positive history for thrombotic events. 
Treatment of herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia. Herpes zoster results from reactivation of latent varicella-zoster virus. It is most common in elderly patients and immunosuppressed patients, especially those with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Zoster is often the earliest indicator of HIV infection. The acute course of herpes zoster is generally benign, but systemic complications may be fatal. Postherpetic neuralgia is the major chronic complication and is a difficult management problem. High-dose acyclovir (800 mg orally five times daily) has recently been approved for treatment of herpes zoster and, if started early, decreases the duration and severity of symptoms. In the prevention of postherpetic neuralgia, acyclovir does not appear to be effective, and the efficacy of steroids is questionable. The best therapy currently available for postherpetic neuralgia is amitriptyline, topical capsaicin and transcutaneous electrical stimulation. 
Effect of octreotide (SMS 201-995) on meal-stimulated pancreatic secretion in three patients with external pancreatic fistula. Octreotide (SMS 201-995) is a long-acting somatostatin analogue that inhibits both basal and secretin-cholecystokinin-stimulated pancreatic secretion. This study assesses the effect of this compound on pancreatic secretion induced by ordinary meals. Three patients with stable secretion of pure pancreatic juice from high output pancreatic fistula were studied. In all three, meal ingestion caused a marked and prolonged increase in pancreatic juice flow, and in bicarbonate and protein output. The subcutaneous injection of 50 micrograms octreotide before meals almost totally prevented (by about 90%) this increase. The inhibitory effect of octreotide on postprandial pancreatic secretion appeared soon, and persisted for the duration of the study period (8 h). 
Treatment with recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha protects rats against the lethality, hypotension, and hypothermia of gram-negative sepsis. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a peptide secreted by macrophages in response to endotoxin that can produce many of the changes seen in septic shock. After cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) rats gradually develop tachycardia, hypotension, tachypnea, and hypothermia. At 5 h post-CLP, rats have a peak in serum levels of endotoxin and 60% of rats have blood cultures that grow Gram-negative rods (Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumonia). At 20 h post-CLP all rats develop positive blood cultures. Serum levels of TNF are not reproducibly measurable in rats following CLP. Rats undergoing CLP have a 50-80% mortality with deaths usually occurring 24-72 h postinjury. Repetitive (twice daily x 6 d) i.p. injection of sublethal doses of recombinant human TNF-alpha (100 micrograms/kg) to rats undergoing CLP 1 d after the treatment period resulted in a significant reduction in mortality compared to control rats previously unexposed to rTNF (P less than 0.03). Animals treated with rTNF had no hypotension or hypothermia after CLP and regained normal food intake faster than control rats. 12 h after CLP the gene expression for manganous superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), an inducible mitochondrial metalloenzyme responsible for cellular resistance to injury from toxic reactive oxygen species, was higher in livers of rats treated with rTNF suggesting that the TNF treatment augmented expression of this protective enzyme. Unlike MnSOD, expression of the gene for copper-zinc SOD was not affected by CLP or rTNF treatment. The results suggest that prior treatment with recombinant TNF can ameliorate the lethality, hypotension, hypothermia, and anorexia of Gram-negative sepsis in rats and that the mechanism may be related to enhanced hepatic expression of the gene for MnSOD. Repeated administration of recombinant TNF may be a strategy to minimize mortality and morbidity of Gram-negative sepsis. 
Reflux esophagitis therapy: sucralfate versus ranitidine in a double blind multicenter trial. Sucralfate (Sc) suspension 6 g/day and ranitidine (Rn) tablets, 150 mg, were compared in 125 patients in a double-blind, multicenter, endoscopically controlled trial in the treatment of reflux esophagitis. Inclusion criteria were symptomatic reflux (number and severity of attacks) and endoscopic evidence of esophagitis (grades 1 to 4). Clinical assessments were performed on entry, and at 4 and at 8 weeks, and endoscopy was repeated at 8 weeks. Sc suspension and Rn placebo or Sc placebo and Rn tablets were taken on waking and immediately before retiring at night. Of the 125 patients, 27 were withdrawn because of default (Rn = 4; Sc = 14), noncompliance (Rn = 1; Sc = 2), or the development of congestive cardiac failure (Rn = 1), diarrhea (Rn = 1; Sc = 1), nausea (Sc = 1), constipation (Sc = 1), and hematemesis (Sc = 1). Analysis was performed on the remaining 98 patients, 43 of whom had been treated with Sc and 55 with Rn. Heartburn, acid regurgitation, epigastric pain, dysphagia, and chest pain were relieved in 34% vs 40%, 67% vs 72%, 71% vs 57%, and 86% vs 63% for Sc and Rn, respectively. There was no significant difference between the two groups. Endoscopic healing occurred in 47% of the Sc- and in 31% of the Rn-treated patients (chi 2 = 2.50), and healing or improvement was noted in 81% of the Sc- and 64% of the Rn-treated patients. This difference approached statistical significance (chi 2 = 3.73). There was no obvious endoscopic benefit in 8 of the 43 and 20 of the 55 patients in the groups treated with Sc and Rn, respectively. Although the findings with sucralfate and ranitidine in patients with reflux esophagitis completing the trial suggest a benefit of these agents, the absence of a placebo control group and the high default rates, particularly for those receiving sucralfate, preclude any firm conclusions as to relative or specific efficacy of these agents in this condition. 
Vestibular autorotation test asymmetry analysis of acoustic neuromas. The vestibular autorotation test (VAT) measures the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) response from 2 to 6 Hz, during 18 seconds of active head movements, while the patient attempts to fixate on a wall-mounted target. A new method of measuring eye velocity asymmetry from VAT data is presented, based on computer estimation of the 0th harmonics of discrete Fourier spectra over short segments of digital eye and head velocity records. Eye asymmetries greater than a 3% normal range are shown to be directionally correlated with the side of the lesions in patients with unilateral labyrinthectomies. Among patients with a diagnosis of acoustic neuroma, who were tested preoperatively with the VAT, nine of nine patients showed eye asymmetries greater than 3% toward the side of the neuroma. Those patients with acoustic neuromas who have sufficiently vigorous high-frequency head responses showed mean percentages of eye asymmetry that were linearly correlated with the size of the acoustic neuroma. These results suggest that VAT high-frequency asymmetry provides a useful method of diagnostic evaluation of the side and extent of unilateral peripheral lesions. 
Antiischemic and metabolic effects of glutamate during pacing in patients with stable angina pectoris secondary to either coronary artery disease or syndrome X. The effects of glutamate on anginal threshold, cardiac metabolism and hemodynamics were studied in 11 patients with stable angina pectoris, positive stress test results, and pacing-induced myocardial lactate release due to coronary artery disease (CAD) (n = 9) or syndrome X (n = 2). Data were obtained before, during and after 2 identical periods of coronary sinus pacing, the second being preceded by an intravenous injection of monosodium glutamate 1.2 (n = 7) or 2.5 (n = 4) mg/kg body weight. After glutamate administration, pacing time to onset of angina increased from mean +/- standard deviation 103 +/- 53 to 166 +/- 71 seconds (p less than 0.01) and ST-segment depression after pacing decreased from 2.3 +/- 1.0 to 1.6 +/- 1.1 mm (p less than 0.01). Arterial glutamate concentration increased 60% (p less than 0.01) after the low dose and 150% (p less than 0.01) after the high dose of glutamate. Regardless of dose, myocardial glutamate uptake increased by 25% (p less than 0.01). Pacing-induced cardiac release of lactate diminished 50% (p less than 0.05), whereas the releases of xanthine and hypoxanthine were unchanged by glutamate. Arterial free fatty acids decreased 20% (p less than 0.01). Circulating levels and cardiac exchanges of alanine, glucose and citrate were unchanged. Glutamate did not influence heart rate, arterial blood pressure, coronary blood flow, coronary vascular resistance or myocardial oxygen consumption. One patient complained of short-lasting burning sensations after receiving the high glutamate dose. In conclusion, augmented provision of glutamate enhances pacing tolerance in stable angina, presumably by a metabolic improvement of cardiac energy production during ischemia. 
The effect of 'detailing' on physicians' prescribing behavior for postsurgical narcotic analgesia. Physicians have been frequently reported to prescribe inadequately pain medication in the hospitalized patient. A number of methods and techniques have been attempted to alter this phenomenon including audit, standard setting, drug utilization evaluation and sanctioning. The purpose of the following study was to demonstrate the behavioral efficacy of the technique of detailing. We reviewed the postsurgical records of 320 patients for pre-established criteria on the administration of meperidine before and after detailing of the proper prescribing with regard to timing and dose. The data show 30% of the sample meeting the criteria before detailing and 43% after detailing had been given. We conclude the method of detailing can be effective in altering physician's prescribing behavior for meperidine in postoperative surgical patients. 
A new approach to the assessment of tomographic thallium-201 scintigraphy in patients with left bundle branch block. To determine whether a new approach to interpretation could improve the accuracy of thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for detection of left anterior descending coronary artery disease in patients with left bundle branch block, 69 patients were evaluated. Forty-four had angiographically proved coronary artery disease; the remaining 25 were considered to have a "low" (mean 13.5 +/- 6.4%, range 3.4% to 24.9%) likelihood of disease before thallium-201 scintigraphy. The conventional scintigraphic criterion for detection of left anterior descending artery disease (septal, anterior or apical defects) was compared with a new criterion that required the apex to be abnormal to indicate left anterior descending disease. The normalcy rates in the low likelihood patient group were significantly improved by using the new approach, from 16% to 80% (p less than 0.0001) by visual analysis and from 24% to 64% (p = 0.003) by quantitative SPECT polar map analysis. The sensitivity for left anterior descending disease was similar for the conventional and the new method by visual (100% vs. 94%) and quantitative (100% vs. 83%) analyses. In contrast, the specificity was significantly improved by using the new approach, from 14% to 79% (p = 0.0006) by visual analysis and 14% to 64% (p = 0.007) by quantitative analysis. In conclusion, septal and anterior thallium-201 SPECT defects are common in patients with left bundle branch block without coronary artery disease, resulting in low specificity for left anterior descending artery disease. The normalcy rates and accuracy for detection of left anterior descending coronary artery disease were significantly better when an apical defect was used as the criterion for disease. 
Fatty infiltration of the liver: quantification with phase-contrast MR imaging at 1.5 T vs biopsy. Quantification of hepatic fat content by application of MR phase-contrast imaging (Dixon method) at 1.5 T was compared with results of biopsy in 16 patients with a variety of liver abnormalities. Motion artifact was suppressed by employing six or eight averages of short TR in-phase (echo offset, 0 msec), out-of-phase (echo offset, 1.1 msec), and in-phase (echo offset, 2.2 msec) spin-echo pulse sequences. The 360 degree out-of-phase sequence was used to assess the impact of T2* decay on this method of estimating fat fraction. A standard two-echo long TR sequence also was obtained in all patients. Histologic preparations from the biopsy specimens were examined by a pathologist who had no knowledge of the MR results and were graded according to overall visual assessment as belonging to one of four categories of fat fraction. Results of the MR-calculated apparent fat fraction were compared directly with biopsy category and were also placed in MR fat fraction categories, allowing estimation of the statistical correlation between the biopsy and MR grading systems. Eight of eight patients with biopsy categories indicating a fat fraction of less than 0.25 were computed by MR to have a fat fraction of less than 0.1. Seven of eight patients with biopsy categories indicating a fat fraction of greater than 0.25 were computed by MR to have a fat fraction of at least 0.24. The MR-calculated apparent fat fraction category correlated significantly with the histologic biopsy category (r = .86, p less than .01). When compared with the in-phase image, decreased signal from liver was visually apparent on the 180 degree out-of-phase images in all cases in which the fat fraction was at least 0.24, but there was no indication of fatty liver on the standard T1- or T2-weighted images. Calculated T2 also showed no correlation with degree of fatty deposition. Correction for T2* decay by using the 360 degree out-of-phase acquisition in addition to the standard 0 degree and 180 degree out-of-phase images had little effect on fat fraction computation. Phase-contrast MR is a promising noninvasive method for quantitative assessment of fatty deposition in the liver. 
Brain in eclampsia: MR imaging with clinical correlation. Cranial magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was performed on eight consecutive patients with generalized tonic-clonic seizures caused by eclampsia. Each patient underwent serial neurologic examinations until all symptoms resolved. Six of those eight patients underwent follow-up MR imaging. These patients were compared with those in previous case reports of MR imaging abnormalities of the brain in eclampsia. MR imaging typically demonstrates bilateral hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted images and iso- to hypointense lesions on T1-weighted images. MR imaging abnormalities are most commonly located in the distribution of the posterior cerebral circulation and are associated with visual disturbances. Basal ganglia and deep white matter lesions are less common and are associated with mental status changes. Most lesions seen at MR imaging in patients with eclampsia are reversible. 
Comparative rates of desensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors by the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase and the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. Three separate processes may contribute to rapid beta-adrenergic receptor desensitization: functional uncoupling from the stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding protein Gs, mediated by phosphorylation of the receptors by two distinct kinases, the specific beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (beta ARK) and the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA), as well as a spatial uncoupling via sequestration of the receptors away from the cell surface. To evaluate the relative importance and potential role of the various processes in different physiological situations, a kinetic analysis of these three mechanisms was performed in permeabilized A431 epidermoid carcinoma cells. To allow a separate analysis of each mechanism, inhibitors of the various desensitization mechanisms were used: heparin to inhibit beta ARK, the PKA inhibitor peptide PKI to inhibit PKA, and concanavalin A treatment to prevent sequestration. Isoproterenol-induced phosphorylation of beta 2 receptors in these cells by beta ARK occurred with a t1/2 of less than 20 sec, whereas phosphorylation by PKA had a t1/2 of about 2 min. Similarly, beta ARK-mediated desensitization of the receptors proceeded with a t1/2 of less than 15 sec, and PKA-mediated desensitization with a t1/2 of about 3.5 min. Maximal desensitization mediated by the two kinases corresponded to a reduction of the signal-transduction capacity of the receptor/adenylyl cyclase system by about 60% in the case of beta ARK and by about 40% in the case of PKA. Receptor sequestration was much slower (t1/2 of about 10 min) and involved no more than 30% of the cell surface receptors. It is concluded that beta ARK-mediated phosphorylation is the most rapid and quantitatively most important factor contributing to the rapid desensitization. This rapidity of the beta ARK-mediated mechanism makes it particularly well suited to regulate beta-adrenergic receptor function in rapidly changing environments such as the synaptic cleft. 
Use of parenteral medium-chain triglyceride emulsion for maintaining seizure control in a 5-year-old girl with intractable diarrhea. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) are an important component of an enteral ketogenic diet for seizure control. Previously, it was difficult to maintain ketosis when parenteral (iv) nutrition therapy was necessary. The use of iv MCT in a 5-year-old girl with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome who had diarrhea and dehydration is reported. Conventional 20% iv fat emulsion (long-chain triglycerides, LCT) and dextrose free hyperalimentation (HAL) in a 4:1 ketogenic ratio did not maintain adequate ketosis during bowel rest. Compassionate use of iv MCT (Clintec Nutrition) infused as a 70:30 MCT/LCT ratio plus HAL maintained moderate ketosis. Seizures were well controlled during the iv MCT regimen, which allowed normal daily functioning. Complications included abnormal liver function tests and severe iron deficiency anemia of unknown etiology. Serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels increased to 1717 mg/dl and 614 mg/dl, respectively, but decreased with a reduction of lipid infusion and use of an antihyperlipemic drug. Nutritional status was maintained. In this case, iv MCT proved to be a relatively safe and effective short-term method of continuing parenteral nutrition while maintaining ketosis for seizure control. 
Management of traumatic injuries to the facial nerve. Penetrating and nonpenetrating trauma to the head and neck produces myriad injuries to the facial nerve. This article presents a rationale of management of neural injury, emphasizing extracranial and intratemporal trauma and techniques of neurorrhaphy. 
Defenses against oxidation in human erythrocytes: role of glutathione reductase in the activation of glucose decarboxylation by hemolytic drugs. We have used 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, a selective inhibitor of oxidized glutathione reductase (GSSG-R), to examine the role of this enzyme in regulating the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMS) and to explore how a variety of agents influence glucose decarboxylation in intact human red blood cells (RBCs). Substances tested included primaquine and several other drugs that are specially hemolytic and methemoglobinemic in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency and related disorders. The results allowed us to distinguish and quantitate contrasting modes of HMS stimulation and to clarify how RBCs respond to different classes of oxidants. Some agents like methylene blue (MB), phenazine methosulfate, and pyrroline carboxylate do not require GSSG-R to increase CO2 production; they activate G6PD and 6-phosphogluconic dehydrogenase by directly oxidizing reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) to oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP). Other compounds, like ascorbate, nitrofurantoin, and doxorubicin, oxidize GSH primarily; CO2 increases indirectly only when GSSG-R, activated by glutathione disulfide (GSSG), raises the level of NADP. Chemicals like primaquine, daunorubicin, and methylphenylazoformate trigger the HMS by independently oxidizing both NADPH and GSH. Unlike MB, most drugs that are hemolytic in G6PD deficiency activate the HMS in a manner that depends to a variable extent on GSSG-R. This variability may explain hitherto puzzling clinical and pharmacogenetic differences between primaquine and diaminodiphenylsulfone-induced hemolysis. 
Effect of transient coronary occlusion on coronary blood flow autoregulation, vasodilator reserve and response to adenosine in the dog. Myocardial ischemia of short duration (15 to 20 min) produces myocardial "stunning" during reperfusion. The vasoregulatory and contractile status of reperfused myocardium during normal and reduced perfusion pressures is of interest in the treatment of patients with unstable angina. In the present study the effects of 15 min of reversible ischemic injury on several aspects of coronary vasoregulation were assessed with use of pressure-flow curves in anesthetized open chest dogs. The left anterior descending coronary artery was cannulated and perfused with arterial blood with use of a servo-controlled roller pump. The autoregulatory gain and an adenosine dose-response curve for coronary flow before and after ischemia and reperfusion were obtained. The maximal autoregulatory gain values in the pressure range of 140 to 60 mm Hg were not significantly different before and after ischemia and reperfusion (0.41 +/- 0.08 vs. 0.5 +/- 0.06, p greater than 0.1). The adenosine dose-response curve was significantly shifted to the right after reperfusion; however, coronary blood flows during maximal adenosine vasodilation over a large range of perfusion pressures (140 to 60 mm Hg) were significantly greater after ischemia and reperfusion. The pressure-dependent decrease in segment shortening (sonomicrometry) over the coronary pressure range of 160 to 30 mm Hg was similar in myocardium before and after stunning. Contractile function in the stunned myocardium at normal (100 mm Hg) and low (40 mm Hg) coronary perfusion pressures was similarly and significantly enhanced by the administration of adenosine. It is concluded that 1) coronary autoregulation is unchanged after brief ischemia and reperfusion; 2) although maximal coronary vascular conductance assessed with adenosine is greater after ischemia, the coronary circulation shows a decreased coronary sensitivity to exogenous adenosine; 3) the relation of contractile function to coronary pressure before and after stunning is unchanged; and 4) enhancement of function in stunned myocardium by vasodilation with adenosine occurs at low and normal perfusion pressures. 
Ultrasonographic diagnosis of symptomatic deep venous thrombosis in pregnancy. Color flow imaging combined with compression ultrasonography were used to prospectively evaluate symptomatic patients first seen with suspected deep vein thrombosis during pregnancy. The incidence of symptomatic deep vein thrombosis (7 of 10,000 deliveries) shown prospectively by ultrasonography was similar to that of historic controls who had a diagnosis confirmed by venography (11 of 26,191 deliveries). A preferential pattern of proximal left-sided iliac or femoral vein involvement was common to both cohorts, being seen in five of the seven cases diagnosed by ultrasonography and eight of the eleven cases diagnosed by venography. We conclude that ultrasonography, consisting of compression ultrasonography and color flow imaging, can replace venography in the diagnosis and evaluation of the extent of symptomatic deep vein thrombosis during pregnancy. 
Antenatal diagnosis of fetal splenic cyst. A case report. Antenatal ultrasonography detected a fetal splenic cyst at 35 weeks' gestation. Serial ultrasonography and follow-up neonatal ultrasonography confirmed the presence of a solitary splenic cyst. The finding of asymptomatic but potentially serious fetal lesions allows optimum management of the newborn infant and adds to the benefits of antenatal sonography. 
Ovulation induction by step-down administration of purified urinary follicle-stimulating hormone in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome. The step-down method can be an alternative method of ovulation induction in women with PCOS. This protocol can induce ovulation with a smaller dose of FSH and with lower incidence of excessive ovarian enlargement in comparison with the traditional fixed-dose administration method. 
Human hepatocyte growth factor in blood of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. I. Clinical aspects. The levels of human hepatocyte growth factor (hHGF) in sera obtained from patients with various liver diseases were determined using adult rat hepatocytes maintained in primary culture. The mean hHGF activity for 22 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was about nine times greater than that found in normal human serum. The increase in serum hHGF activity seen in two patients with "acute-on-chronic" hepatitis was similar to that found in patients with fulminant hepatic failure. The serum level of hHGF from patients with acute hepatitis is related to the stage of their illness. The average value for 31 patients was about three times that of normal human serum. In some patients, the time course for the increase in serum hHGF activity was similar to that demonstrated for alpha-fetoprotein. The mean hHGF activity in serum for the 33 patients with chronic hepatitis and from 25 patients with liver cirrhosis was increased also compared with that of normal human serum. In addition, serum hHGF activity in three of seven patients studied after partial hepatectomy for a space-occupying lesion of the liver was increased. These data suggest that the increase in serum hHGF activity present in patients with various liver diseases reflects a self-defense mechanism that is involved in the process of liver cell regeneration. 
PUVA-induced lymphomatoid papulosis in a patient with mycosis fungoides. The occurrence of lymphomatoid papulosis in patients with cutaneous lymphoma, particularly mycosis fungoides, has been described in medical literature. A 68-year-old woman affected by mycosis fungoides in the plaque stage noticed that multiple papulonodular lesions of lymphomatoid papulosis developed suddenly after a few sessions of PUVA therapy. The PUVA induction of lymphomatoid papulosis was confirmed by the appearance of new lesions after a second cycle of PUVA exposure on a limited area of the body. Complete regression of all PUVA-induced lymphomatoid papulosis lesions was achieved within a few weeks with oral prednisone and topical steroids. During the entire treatment the patches and plaques of mycosis fungoides persisted unchanged. 
Possible Behcet's disease revealed by pulmonary aneurysms. Behcet's disease (BD) is a multisystem disease which may affect many organ systems in addition to the originally described triple symptom complex. Pulmonary aneurysm is one of the rare complications of the disease. We report a case of bilateral pulmonary aneurysm in which usual criteria for the clinical diagnosis of BD were absent and we believe that pulmonary aneurysm could be the first appearance of the disease. 
Ophthalmoplegia with headache. Be aware of diabetes. Cranial neuropathy affecting the eyes is a possible symptom of type II diabetes. In this article, Dr Dickerman describes a case in which diabetes was diagnosed in a 63-year-old woman who presented with unilateral headache and eye pain. 
Pulmonary and chest wall mechanics in anesthetized paralyzed humans. Pulmonary and chest wall mechanics were studied in 18 anesthetized paralyzed supine humans by use of the technique of rapid airway occlusion during constant-flow inflation. Analysis of the changes in transpulmonary pressure after flow interruption allowed partitioning of the overall resistance of the lung (RL) into two compartments, one (Rint,L) reflecting airway resistance and the other (delta RL) representing the viscoelastic properties of the pulmonary tissues. Similar analysis of the changes in esophageal pressure indicates that chest wall resistance (RW) was due entirely to the viscoelastic properties of the chest wall tissues (delta RW = RW). In line with previous measurements of airway resistance, Rint,L increased with increasing flow and decreased with increasing volume. The opposite was true for both delta RL and delta RW. This behavior was interpreted in terms of a viscoelastic model that allowed computation of the viscoelastic constants of the lung and chest wall. This model also accounts for frequency, volume, and flow dependence of elastance of the lung and chest wall. Static and dynamic elastances, as well as delta R, were higher for the lung than for the chest wall. 
Randomised study of antiepileptic drug withdrawal in patients in remission. Medical Research Council Antiepileptic Drug Withdrawal Study Group A prospective multicentre randomised study of continued antiepileptic treatment vs slow withdrawal was conducted in 1013 patients who had been free of seizures for at least 2 years. Comparison of randomised and eligible, but non-randomised, patients suggests the results should be applicable to a wider patient population. By 2 years after randomisation, 78% of patients in whom treatment was continued and 59% of those in whom it was withdrawn remained seizure free, but thereafter the differences between the two groups diminished. Non-compliance with continued treatment accounted for only a small proportion of the risk to the group continuing with treatment. The most important factors determining outcome were longer seizure-free periods (reducing the risk) and more than one antiepileptic drug and a history of tonic-clonic seizures (increasing the risk). Other factors (eg, history of neonatal seizures, specific electroencephalographic features) seemed to have smaller effects, but even in such a large study the confidence intervals for these observations were wide. 
Comparison of monoclonal immunocytochemical and immunoenzymatic methods for steroid receptor evaluation in breast cancer. The production of monoclonal antibodies against estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) has permitted the development of the enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and immunocytochemical assay (ICA) for steroid receptor determination. The results obtained with these two techniques, using the same monoclonal antibodies, were compared in a large series of breast carcinomas (187 for ER and 100 for PR). The correlation between these methods was significant for ER (rs = 0.54) and PR (rs = 0.55) (P less than 0.001) but was lost when the receptor concentrations determined by EIA were less than or equal to 15 and less than or equal to 30 fmol/mg protein for ER and PR, respectively. When these values are considered as cutoffs, the concordance between the two methods was 84.5% for ER and 73% for PR. An analysis of discordant results revealed that low epithelial cellularity generally was present in ICA-positive, EIA-negative specimens, whereas only focal positivity with ICA, or positivity of only normal peripheral mammary ducts and lobules, frequently was found in ICA-negative, EIA-positive tumors. In conclusion, there is good correlation between the results obtained by EIA and ICA methods for detection of ER and PR. The authors suggest that biochemical and histochemical methods for steroid receptors could be considered complementary and used together for the analysis of breast cancer. 
Comparison of muscle sympathetic responses to hemorrhage and lower body negative pressure in humans. We compared changes in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) during graded lower body negative pressure (LBNP) and 450 ml of hemorrhage in nine healthy volunteers. During LBNP, central venous pressure (CVP) decreased from 6.1 +/- 0.4 to 4.5 +/- 0.5 (LBNP -5 mmHg), 3.4 +/- 0.6 (LBNP -10 mmHg), and 2.3 +/- 0.6 mmHg (LBNP -15 mmHg), and there were progressive increases in SNA at each level of LBNP. The slope relating percent change in SNA to change in CVP during LBNP (mean +/- SE) was 27 +/- 11%/mmHg. Hemorrhage of 450 ml at a mean rate of 71 +/- 5 ml/min decreased CVP from 6.1 +/- 0.5 to 3.7 +/- 0.5 mmHg and increased SNA by 47 +/- 11%. The increase in SNA during hemorrhage was not significantly different from the increase in SNA predicted by the slope relating percent change in SNA to change in CVP during LBNP. These data show that nonhypotensive hemorrhage causes sympathoexcitation and that sympathetic responses to LBNP and nonhypotensive hemorrhage are similar in humans. 
Mesenteric vein thrombosis associated with a familial deficiency of free protein S. Signs and symptoms of an acute intra-abdominal emergency developed in a 26-year-old man; this emergency prompted surgical exploration. It was discovered that he had a devitalized small bowel as a result of mesenteric vein thrombosis. An extensive evaluation for hypercoagulable states disclosed that he had a normal total protein S concentration, but by assay and on crossed immunoelectrophoresis studies, he had a decreased concentration of free protein S. A family study demonstrated protein S deficiency in his father and in a sister. On a subsequent determination, the propositus had a decreased concentration of total protein S. This case illustrates the association of protein S deficiency with mesenteric thrombosis and serves to caution that a single determination of total protein S is not an adequate evaluation when the index of suspicion for a hypercoagulable state is high. 
Cocaine-associated chest pain. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical and ECG features of cocaine abusers evaluated in the emergency department and admitted to the medical coronary care unit with chest pain consistent with myocardial ischemia. DESIGN: A four-month retrospective review of all cocaine abusers who presented to the ED with chest pain and a diagnosis of possible myocardial infarction. SETTING: Urban county hospital. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Forty-eight adult cocaine abusers admitted with chest pain. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients included 34 men and 14 women with a mean age of 29 +/- 7.3 years. The average duration of cocaine abuse in 28 patients for whom it was reported was 5 +/- 4.8 years. Chest pain occurred within one hour of cocaine abuse in 13 admissions (27%), more than one hour after abuse in 13 admissions (27%), and it was not recorded in 23 admissions (47%). Initial ECGs were evaluated in all patients and revealed significant repolarization abnormalities consisting of abnormal ST segment elevations in 18 (37%) and T-wave inversions in 20 (41%) that often persisted on subsequent ECGs. Three patients sustained acute myocardial infarctions. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm a small but significant incidence of myocardial infarction in cocaine abusers presenting to the ED with chest pain. The chronicity of cocaine abuse, the persistence of ECG abnormalities, and the variable temporal relationship of chest pain to cocaine abuse suggest possible chronic myocardial changes as etiologies of ischemia. 
Inhibition of early atherogenesis in transgenic mice by human apolipoprotein AI. Epidemiological surveys have identified a strong inverse relationship between the amount in the plasma of high density lipoproteins (HDL), apolipoprotein AI (ApoA-I), the major protein component of HDL, and the risk for atherosclerosis in humans. It is not known if this relationship arises from a direct antiatherogenic effect of these plasma components or if it is the result of other factors also associated with increases in ApoA-I and HDL levels. Because some strains of mice are susceptible to diet-induced formation of preatherosclerotic fatty streak lesions, and because of available techniques for the genetic manipulation of this organism, the murine system offers a unique setting in which to investigate the process of early atherogenesis. To test the hypothesis that induction of a high plasma concentration of ApoA-I and HDL would inhibit this process, we studied the effects of atherogenic diets on transgenic mice expressing high amounts of human ApoA-I. We report that transgenic mice with high plasma ApoA-I and HDL levels were significantly protected from the development of fatty streak lesions. 
Congenital mitral regurgitation associated with total anomalous pulmonary venous drainage. Report of a rare combination. A case of congenital mitral regurgitation associated with total anomalous pulmonary venous drainage, successfully treated surgically, is reported. To our knowledge, this combination has not been reported in the literature. 
Cholecystokinin cholescintigraphy: detection of abnormal gallbladder motor function in patients with chronic acalculous gallbladder disease. CCK cholescintigrams were performed in 374 patients with recurrent postprandial right upper quadrant pain, biliary colic, and a normal gallbladder sonogram and/or cholecystogram. The results of these examinations were correlated with the patients' final medical/surgical diagnoses. Twenty-seven patients recruited as control volunteers without objective clinical evidence of biliary disease also underwent CCK cholescintigraphy to determine if the degree of gallbladder contraction post-CCK differs in symptomatic versus asymptomatic subjects. Decreased gallbladder motor function was identified (maximal gallbladder ejection fraction response to CCK less than 35%) in 94% of patients with histopathologically confirmed chronic acalculous cholecystitis or the cystic duct syndrome and in 88% of patients clinically believed to have chronic acalculous biliary disease. Decreased gallbladder motor function does not distinguish symptomatic from asymptomatic gallbladder disease. 
DNA/RNA content and proliferative fractions of colorectal carcinomas: a five-year prospective study relating flow cytometry to survival. In our prospective study, flow cytometric analysis of cellular DNA and RNA content was performed on unfixed fresh specimens of colorectal adenocarcinoma taken from 176 patients. Of the 176 tumors, 113 (64%) were aneuploid. There was no correlation between aneuploidy and tumor stage, grade, location, or size. After a median follow-up of 5.6 years, no correlation between DNA or RNA content and patient survival was found. DNA content alone was not an independent prognostic factor when the colorectal carcinomas were segregated by curable and incurable stages. However, normal mucosa, diploid tumors, and aneuploid tumors showed progressively higher proliferation and higher RNA and DNA indices. Proliferative fraction--defined as the percentage of cells in S + G2 and M phases of the cell cycle--was significantly related to ploidy and to Dukes' stage. Despite these correlations, we did not detect a significant influence of proliferative fraction on survival when patients were segregated above or below the mean proliferative fraction for all tumors. More accurate methods of identifying the proliferative fraction of tumor cells are currently being pursued. While the role of flow cytometry in the evaluation and management of patients with colorectal carcinoma is still undefined for a number of other cellular parameters, it seems unlikely that DNA index, RNA index, or the proliferative fractions calculated from the DNA histogram, will, of themselves, represent independent prognostic factors. 
Nutrition and alcoholic liver disease. While the rate of malnutrition is relatively modest in alcoholic patients without alcoholic liver disease, the rate of malnutrition is virtually 100% in patients with alcoholic hepatitis and/or alcoholic cirrhosis. The reasons for malnutrition in the alcoholic hepatitis patient include various factors such as anorexia, poor diet, malabsorption, and altered metabolic state. When the patient is hospitalized, the malnutrition frequently worsens because of fasting for tests, continued anorexia, and complications such as gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with severe acute hepatitis appear to be both hypermetabolic and hypercatabolic, whereas data are much more conflicting concerning patients with more stable liver disease. Most studies suggest that patients with alcoholic liver disease require at least 60 g of protein per day to maintain positive nitrogen balance. Consistent alterations in plasma amino acid profiles occur in alcoholic liver disease, and specialized nutritional formulations have been devised to correct this amino acid profile with the intent of improving overall nutritional status, hepatic encephalopathy, and mortality. The effects of nutritional support (including use of specialized products) on outcome, on acute hepatic encephalopathy, and on chronic or latent portal systemic encephalopathy are reviewed. 
The hospital costs of diagnostic procedures for colorectal cancer. Diagnosis for colorectal cancer is commonly made using either colonoscopy or double contrast barium enema techniques. To data, little attention has been paid to the comparative costs of these two procedures and the paper presents estimates of hospital costs for each, using data from the colorectal study being undertaken in Nottingham, U.K. Consideration is also given to procedure sensitivity and the frequency of referral to the alternative technique in cases of incomplete diagnosis. The paper presents the conditions under which a given technique may be considered cost-superior to its alternative but concludes that the absence of conclusive clinical trial data and other considerations precludes the identification of a definitively optimum technique from the economic point of view. 
Eyelid leishmaniasis in a patient with neurogenic ptosis. A patient with chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia contracted cutaneous leishmaniasis of the upper eyelid. Infection of this site is rare because eyelid movements usually prevent the sandfly vector from biting the skin there. It is postulated that the relative immobility of the upper eyelid in this patient was a major predisposing factor for the infection. 
Relationships between block-of-twitch and train-of-four fade in the mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparation. The relationships between the block-of-twitch and train-of-four fade in the presence of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs (d-tubocurarine, vecuronium and pancuronium) were examined in vitro by measuring the contractile tension from mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparations. The slope of the block/fade relationship differed between onset of and recovery from neuromuscular block following single doses of d-tubocurarine, vecuronium or pancuronium. Decreasing the dose of d-tubocurarine or using a divided dose technique to accelerate onset (i.e., priming) increased the amount of fade for a given amount of block. In addition, the block/fade relationships for cumulative dosing and sequential dilution were the same when measurements were made at steady-state for several doses. It is concluded that the block/fade relationship in the mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparation is variable, and is related to the time course of the neuromuscular block. In addition, the block/fade relationships for d-tubocurarine, vecuronium and pancuronium did not differ when determined at steady-state. 
Recurrent aortic graft infection following descending thoracic aorta to femoral artery bypass. A case report and review. This paper presents a patient who developed a recurrent aortic graft infection after a descending thoracic aorta to femoral artery bypass. The patient had previously undergone successful management of an infected aortobifemoral bypass by removal of the graft and revascularization of the lower extremities with axillofemoral bypasses. A general discussion of the management of infected aortic grafts is presented and a discussion of the management of this particular patient is presented in detail. 
Chronic periaortitis presenting as common bile duct obstruction. The case of a 67 year old woman is reported who presented with cholestatic jaundice and was found to have, in addition, an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Only at necropsy did histopathology show chronic periaortitis as the aetiology of a pancreatic head mass which, during life, mimicked a pancreatic neoplasm obstructing the bile and pancreatic ducts. 
Long-term follow-up of slipped capital femoral epiphysis. The data on 155 hips in 124 patients who had slipped capital femoral epiphysis were retrospectively reviewed at a mean follow-up of forty-one years after the onset of symptoms. The slips were classified, by the duration of symptoms, as acute, chronic, or acute on chronic. As determined by the head-shaft angle, 42 per cent of the slips were mild; 32 per cent, moderate; and 26 per cent, severe. Reduction was performed in thirty-nine hips, and realignment was done in sixty-five hips. Treatment of chronic slips included symptomatic only in 25 per cent of the hips, a spica cast in 30 per cent, pinning in 24 per cent, and osteotomy in 20 per cent. The Iowa hip-rating and the radiographic classification of degenerative joint disease were determined at follow-up; both worsened with increasing severity of the slip and when reduction or realignment had been done. Osteonecrosis (12 per cent) and chondrolysis (16 per cent) also were more common with increasing severity of the slip and when reduction or realignment had been performed; both led to a poor result. Deterioration over time was most marked with increasing severity of the slip. The natural history of the malunited slip is mild deterioration related to the severity of the slip and complications. Techniques of realignment are associated with a risk of appreciable complications and adversely affect the natural history of the disease. Regardless of the severity of the slip, pinning in situ provided the best long-term function and delay of degenerative arthritis, with a low risk of complications. 
Hydroxyethyl starch macromolecule and superoxide dismutase effects on myocardial reperfusion injury. Myocardial reperfusion injury may be due to biophysical changes (e.g., endothelial cell junctional separations), as well as biochemical mechanisms (e.g., oxygen free radical activity). Superoxide dismutase (SOD), a free radical scavenger, may be effective in reducing chemical injury. Fractions of hydroxyethyl starch (HES-Pz), a large macromolecule, have been shown to decrease microvascular permeability associated with reperfusion-induced biophysical alterations. A comparison of SOD to HES-Pz was performed using a canine model of 1-hour left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) clamping followed by 24 hours of reperfusion. Amounts of the test solution equal to 10% of the dog's blood volume were administered intraatrially to the animals just before release of the LAD clamp. Six dogs received Ringer's lactate, 7 were given 600,000 IU of SOD, 13 received 6% HES-Pz, and 9 were given SOD and HES-Pz. The ratio of infarct to area at risk was 20 +/- 3% in the control dogs receiving Ringer's lactate, 16 +/- 4% in animals receiving SOD alone (p = NS), 6 +/- 3% in dogs receiving HES-Pz alone (p less than 0.05), and 8 +/- 3% in dogs given a combination of SOD and HES-Pz (p less than 0.05). HES-Pz alone and with SOD significantly reduced reperfusion injury, although addition of SOD to HES-Pz did not have an additive effect. Appropriate-sized macromolecules may act by reducing ischemia-induced microvascular permeability. 
Epidemiology of subarachnoid hemorrhage in Finland from 1983 to 1985. The age-standardized incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage was 33/100,000/yr among Finnish men and 25/100,000/yr among Finnish women. Subarachnoid hemorrhage represented 11% of all strokes detected during 1983-1985 in the community-based stroke register in three areas of Finland. Age-standardized mortality from subarachnoid hemorrhage was 18/100,000/yr among men and 12/100,000/yr among women aged 25-74 years, representing in men 22% and in women 23% of all deaths from stroke in the register. The case-fatality rate of subarachnoid hemorrhage was high: 35% among men and 33% among women within 2 days after the onset of the stroke attack and 48% in men and 46% in women at 1 month. Our findings suggest that the incidence and mortality of subarachnoid hemorrhage in Finland are among the highest worldwide, although differences in criteria, study methods, and classification procedures reduce the comparability of studies from different countries. The occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage in our present study is also higher than that previously reported in this country. We believe that this is more likely due to changes in diagnostic classification and improvements in detection of the disease than to a real increase in the morbidity and mortality of subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
Neural network analysis of serial cardiac enzyme data. A clinical application of artificial machine intelligence. There has been a recent resurgence of interest in the study and application of computerized neural networks within the broad field of artificial intelligence. These "intelligent machines" are modeled after biological nervous systems and are fundamentally different from the many computerized expert systems that previously have been introduced as clinical decision-making aids. The authors describe a neural network designed and trained to predict the probability of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) based on the analysis of paired sets of cardiac enzymes. The neural network predicted 24 of 24 (100%) AMIs and 27 of 29 (93%) No-AMIs when compared with a pathologist's interpretation of the patient's laboratory data (P less than 0.000001). The authors attempted to validate the network's diagnoses by two independent methods. When compared with echocardiogram and EKG for diagnosis of AMI, the neural network agreed with the cardiologist's interpretation in 12 of 14 (86%) AMIs and 1 of 3 (33%) No-AMIs, but the correlation was not statistically significant. Using autopsy outcome for validation, the neural network agreed with the anatomic evidence in 24 of 26 (92%) AMIs and 4 of 6 (67%) No-AMIs (P = 0.001). The authors conclude that neural networks can be successfully applied to the analysis of cardiac enzyme data and suggest that broader applications exist within the domain of clinical decision support. 
Bilateral retinal hamartomas in neurofibromatosis type 2. We report a case of bilateral retinal hamartomas in a child with neurofibromatosis type 2. This unique case demonstrates that a diversity of retinal changes can occur in this disease. 
New technique of esophageal exclusion for chronic esophageal perforation. A new technique of near-total esophageal exclusion was used successfully in the treatment of 2 patients with chronic thoracic esophageal perforation and continuing sepsis. The most striking point of this technique is the use of cervical T-tube esophagostomy with the lower arm of the T tube circumfixed by chromic catgut tie to prevent swallowing of saliva. Whereas most of the previously reported procedures of cervical esophageal diversion require subsequent esophageal reconstruction, this technique is simple and effective and does not require a second operation. 
MR imaging of CSF-like choroidal fissure and parenchymal cysts of the brain. The purposes of this study were to delineate the MR characteristics of CSF-like parenchymal or fissural cysts of the brain and to correlate them with the clinical findings. Clinical data and MR images of 34 patients with these abnormalities were reviewed. Pathologic correlation was not available. Two types of cystic lesions were identified and separated by location: medial temporal lobe cysts arising in or near the choroidal fissure (26 patients) and parenchymal or pseudoparenchymal cysts not related to the choroidal fissure (eight patients). The choroidal fissure cysts simulated intraparenchymal cysts on axial images but their extraaxial location was well portrayed on the coronal images. Choroidal fissure cysts had a characteristic spindle shape on sagittal images. The other cysts were found in the temporal lobe (seven patients) or thalamus (one patient) and appeared parenchymal but situated close to the subarachnoid space. These lesions were round or ovoid. There was no abnormal enhancement in 10 patients studied with gadopentetate dimeglumine. Coronal images were most useful, revealing the cysts as focal CSF-intensity lesions expanding the choroidal fissure of the temporal lobe. All the cysts appeared to represent incidental findings that did not correlate with the clinical signs and/or symptoms that prompted the imaging evaluations. The MR characteristics of CSF-like cysts are important to recognize so that they are not confused with other, more serious entities, such as intraaxial cystic tumors, infarctions, or parasitic lesions. 
Beneficial effects of isovolemic hemodilution using a perfluorocarbon emulsion in a stroke model. In a clinically applicable cat stroke model, 16 purpose-bred adult animals were used to evaluate the beneficial effects of two treatment regimens: isovolemic hemodilution with either a perfluorocarbon emulsion or dextran 40 (a glucose polymer). Animals that received these treatment regimens were then compared with a control group of untreated animals. Focal cerebral infarctions were produced by transorbital ligation of the left middle cerebral artery. The randomly allocated treatment arms of the study were instituted 3 hours after ligation of the middle cerebral artery, thereby simulating a human clinical situation. In vivo mitochondrial metabolic activity of the peri-infarct cerebral tissue was continually assessed by means of a multiwavelength near-infrared spectrophotometer. This allowed measurement of cellular oxygenation at the cytochrome aa3 level, the terminal member of the cytochrome chain. Sequential proton-based magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure intracerebral water in vivo. Cardiac output, oxygen consumption/delivery, chemical, histologic, and rheologic parameters were also assessed. The data collected were analyzed by group means and standard statistical analyses, which revealed that the group treated with the perfluorocarbon emulsion had both less brain edema in the early post-infarct period (p less than 0.05), as well as a higher level of oxidation of cytochrome aa3 (p less than or equal to 0.025). This evidence supports the premise that isovolemic hemodilution with an oxygen-carrying hemodiluent may be beneficial in the treatment of ischemic strokes. 
Evolution of endoscopic urethropexy: seven-year experience with various techniques. The surgical techniques for correction of stress urinary incontinence continues to evolve particularly those utilizing the endoscopic approach. Various forms of endoscopic urethropexy have been performed in 142 women with a minimum of one-year follow-up. The cure rate for the entire series was 94 percent. In the last two years the no-incision technique was used whenever feasible (31 patients) with an identical cure rate of 94 percent. Varying degrees of urinary retention occurred in 58 percent and was even more prevalent following the no-incision technique (68%). Owing to the high incidence of urinary retention a punch suprapubic cystostomy is now used in most patients. We conclude that endoscopic urethropexy is an effective means of correcting stress urinary incontinence. The no-incision technique is associated with even less morbidity and a reduction in hospital stay without compromising the outcome. 
Successful treatment of hepatosplenic candidiasis with a liposomal amphotericin B preparation. The case of a granulocytopenic patient with acute undifferentiated leukaemia and hepatosplenic candidiasis who was refractory to conventional deoxycholate amphotericin B (AmpB) and 5-flucytosine therapy is reported. He experienced severe AmpB-related side-effects, and was subsequently successfully treated with a pharmaceutical preparation of AmpB (5.7 g) entrapped in sonicated liposomes, composed of lecithin, cholesterol and stearylamine in a molar ratio of 4:3:1. Three months later, during maintenance chemotherapy, liposomal AmpB (5.1 g) was reinstituted due to the finding of biopsies positive for Candida albicans at bronchoscopy. After healing of the patient's fungal infection a left upper lobe resection was performed, which showed advanced fibrosis with signs of inflammation, but no evidence of fungal disease. Since no acute side-effects and only moderate hypokalaemia were observed, it appears that liposomal AmpB is superior to conventional AmpB treatment in granulocytopenic patients with hepatosplenic candidiasis and unbearable therapy-related side-effects. 
Rasmussen encephalitis: epilepsia partialis continua secondary to chronic encephalitis. Rasmussen encephalitis is a disease consisting of chronic encephalitis with progressive neurologic deficits and focal intractable seizure activity. The etiology is unknown, but pathologic specimens revealed changes consistent with viral encephalitis. Even though neuro-imaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, offer the prospect of specific, presurgical diagnostic criteria, the initial diagnosis usually is made on a clinical basis. Treatment modalities, including a wide variety of antiepileptic drug therapies and surgical interventions, may result in significant physical and mental impairments. We summarize the clinical presentation, diagnostic considerations, and different treatment protocols in a patient with this rare and debilitating disorder. 
Chronic inflammation is associated with an increased proportion of goblet cells recovered by bronchial lavage. To evaluate the possibility that bronchoalveolar lavage could provide sufficient respiratory epithelial cells to quantify changes in epithelial cell types associated with chronic inflammation, we examined the epithelial cells obtained in the first infused (20 ml) aliquots that were processed separately from later aliquots, a process known to enrich for bronchial contents. Epithelial cells, including ciliated cells, goblet cells, and fragments of desquamated epithelium, were easily identified after preparation by cytocentrifugation and staining with a modified Giemsa stain. Quantification of the columnar cell types revealed that those with chronic bronchitis and asymptomatic smokers have increased goblet cells as a percentage of the total columnar epithelial cells (chronic bronchitics 36 +/- 2 percent, asymptomatic smokers 22 +/- 2 percent) compared with normal subjects (9 +/- 1 percent, p less than 0.001, ANOVA). Significantly, the goblet cell percentage was strongly correlated with other measures of bronchitis and measures of airflow obstruction such as the bronchitis index, a visually derived score at bronchoscopy of airway inflammation (r = 0.72, p less than 0.001), the percent neutrophils in the first infused aliquots (r = 0.44, p less than 0.05), and the FEV1 percent (r = -0.74, p less than 0.001). Thus, bronchoalveolar lavage is capable of providing sufficient bronchial epithelial cells for analysis, and the changes seen in the spectrum of columnar epithelial cells may reflect important underlying pathologic changes. 
Oromandibular reconstruction using microvascular composite free flaps. Report of 71 cases and a new classification scheme for bony, soft-tissue, and neurologic defects. We describe 71 cases of oromandibular reconstruction using microvascular composite free flaps. There was an overall flap success rate of 94%, while 97% of the patients in this series had their mandibles reconstructed with free vascularized bone flaps. Fifteen patients were rehabilitated with implant-borne dental prostheses. Primary repair of discontinuity defects of the inferior-alveolar nerve using a variety of nerve grafts was performed in 16 patients. A new classification scheme for composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone, soft tissue, and neurologic defects is proposed and applied in the description of each of the patients in this series. 
Trisomy 12 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: an interphase cytogenetic study. Interphase cytogenetics by means of in situ hybridization with the chromosome 12-specific biotinylated alpha satellite DNA probe pSP 12-1 was used for the study of trisomy 12, the most common chromosomal abnormality in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In situ hybridization was performed on methanol/acetic acid fixed cells of conventional cytogenetic preparations from eight patients and on morphologically and immunologically classified cells of cytospin preparations from seven patients. The results show that trisomy 12 is more common than assumed on the basis of karyotype analysis of metaphase chromosomes: 2 of 13 patients with a normal karyotype in G-banding analysis were shown to have trisomy 12 by interphase cytogenetics. Immunophenotyping of the cells of one patient showed that the trisomy was restricted to cells with Ig light chain clonality. For the evaluation of the prognostic, therapeutic, and biologic significance of trisomy 12, in situ hybridization should be used in parallel with karyotype analysis because it allows the study of all cell populations of both interphase and mitotic cells, whether neoplastic or normal. 
Masseter muscle spasm in children: implications of continuing the triggering anesthetic. This retrospective study was undertaken to examine the management and outcome of children who developed isolated masseter muscle spasm (MMS) after the administration of intravenous succinylcholine during anesthetic induction. The inhalation anesthetics used for induction were continued in all of these cases. The medical records of 68 patients (male/female ratio, 1.7:1), identified from approximately 42,000 anesthetics given during the period 1980-1989, were reviewed. Fifty-seven children (2.3-12 yr old) were diagnosed as having isolated MMS, i.e., MMS without spasm of other muscles; 11 experienced generalized rigidity in combination with MMS. Anesthetic and postoperative management of these two groups differed. The overall incidence of MMS was 0.3% of inhalation anesthetics during which succinylcholine was given. Intraoperative arrhythmias occurred in 33% of the patients who developed isolated MMS and more frequently in older children. Most children experienced some degree of hypercarbia and/or metabolic acidosis, but the significance of these abnormalities in the spontaneously ventilating, fasting child is unknown. Serum creatine kinase levels when measured 18-24 h postoperatively were elevated in all but one child (n = 45). There was no long-term morbidity and no mortality. We conclude that failure of the masseter muscles to relax after succinylcholine is not uncommon in children. Based on our experience, and accepting that MMS may be part of the clinical spectrum of malignant hyperthermia, we believe that anesthesia can be continued safely in cases of isolated MMS when careful monitoring accompanies diagnostic evaluation. This differs from the current practice of discontinuing the anesthetic or switching to a nontriggering anesthetic technique. 
Osteomyelitis: characteristics and pitfalls of diagnosis with MR imaging. Prospective and retrospective magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (0.35-T) interpretations were compared with final diagnoses in 110 patients suspected to have osteomyelitis. Diagnostic criteria of dark marrow on T1-weighted images and bright marrow on short-tau inversion-recovery images yielded a prospective sensitivity of 98% and a prospective specificity of 75%. Sixty percent of uncomplicated septic joint effusions demonstrated abnormal marrow signal intensity that was mistaken for osteomyelitis. Retrospective review revealed that overall specificity could be improved to 82% without loss of sensitivity if increased marrow signal intensity on T2-weighted images were included as an additional criterion. Specificity may be further increased by use of knowledge of morphologic patterns that distinguish various forms of osteomyelitis. Ten patients (9%) had potential pitfall diagnoses (eg, fracture, infarction, healed infection) that mimic osteomyelitis. MR imaging can be sensitive and specific for osteomyelitis if characteristic appearances and pitfall diagnoses are incorporated into the diagnostic criteria. 
Genetic linkage of autosomal recessive canine narcolepsy with a mu immunoglobulin heavy-chain switch-like segment. Identification of genes determining narcolepsy susceptibility is important not only for understanding that disorder but also for possible clues to general sleep-control mechanisms. Studies in humans reveal at least one such gene related to the major histocompatibility complex and in dog an as-yet-unmapped single, autosomal recessive gene canarc-1. Gene markers for canarc-1 were therefore sought by DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms in our colony of narcoleptic dogs. A human mu-switch immunoglobulin probe and the enzyme Hae III identified a gene cosegregating with canarc-1 in backcrossed animals (logarithm of odds scores: m = 24, Z max = 7.2 at theta = 0%). canarc-1 was also shown not to be tightly linked with the dog major histocompatibility complex (m = 40, Z less than -2 at theta less than 4.8%). These results represent the mapping of a non-major histocompatibility complex narcolepsy gene and strongly suggest involvement of the immune system in the pathophysiology of that disease. 
Aortic-ventricular tunnel in a neonate: diagnosis and management based on cross sectional and colour Doppler ultrasonography. A five day old symptom free neonate was referred for assessment of a to and fro murmur associated with large volume pulses. Cross sectional echocardiography and colour flow mapping confirmed the diagnosis of an aortic-ventricular tunnel with forward flow into the aorta and regurgitant flow into the ventricle through both the tunnel and the dilated aortic valve ring. Surgical correction by patch closure of the aortic end of the tunnel was successfully undertaken two weeks later without any additional investigations. Postoperative echocardiography and colour flow imaging showed no aortic regurgitation and normal left ventricular dimensions and function. 
Arm edema in conservatively managed breast cancer: obesity is a major predictive factor To identify risk factors in the development of arm edema (AE) after conservative management of breast cancer, the authors prospectively measured differences in upper and lower arm circumference in 282 patients with stage I or II breast cancer who received radiation. AE was defined as a difference of 2.5 cm or more in either measurement between treated and untreated arms. Median follow-up was 37 months (range, 7-109 months). The crude frequency of AE overall was 19.5% (55 patients). In 21 patients (7.4%) AE was transient; 34 patients (12.1%) had persistent AE, which is the focus of this article. The 5-year actuarial incidence of persistent AE was 16%. The crude risk of persistent severe AE was 3.9%. Various factors were examined for their ability to enable prediction of AE. Treatment-related factors did not significantly enable prediction of AE, whereas factors related to patient size, such as body mass index, were strongly associated with both the frequency and severity of AE. 
Health maintenance strategies for women of different ages. An overview. Preventive health strategies for screening for specific illnesses, counseling, and immunization are discussed. Emphasis is given to cardiovascular screening and risk reduction, screening for malignancies, and immunization practices. A framework for designing periodic health examinations for patients is detailed. 
Patient dose and associated risk due to radiological investigation of the internal auditory meatus. The radiation doses and associated somatic risks due to four radiological examinations for acoustic neuromata (AN) have been investigated. These examinations were (1) plain film radiography of the internal auditory meatus (IAM), (2) computed tomography (CT) of the IAM, (3) CT of the posterior fossa and (4) CT of the IAM with air contrast. Organ dose measurements were performed using lithium fluoride thermoluminescent dosemeters loaded in a patient equivalent phantom. Dose equivalents to various organs are presented, together with the effective dose equivalent and collective effective dose equivalent for each examination. Hypothetical fatal somatic risks for each examination studied here have been estimated from the effective dose equivalents. The estimated number of hypothetical fatal cancers induced by radiological examinations for AN is between approximately 110 and 820 times lower than the number of detected AN, depending on the method of assessing the radiation dose to the remainder organs. It is concluded that in this particular study the radiological examinations are of net benefit to this group of patients. 
Edematous pancreatitis associated with intravenous pentamidine. A 37-year-old black man with presumed Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who was treated with systemic IV pentamidine had fatal pancreatitis and massive hepatomegaly. Fatal pancreatitis can occur with no hemorrhagic changes seen at autopsy. Awareness of the relationship between pentamidine and pancreatitis should be emphasized. With current clinical trials testing other routes of administration, fatal complications associated with IV pentamidine therapy will be minimized. 
Vegetative state after closed-head injury. A Traumatic Coma Data Bank Report. To elucidate the clinical course of the vegetative state after severe closed-head injury, the Traumatic Coma Data Bank was analyzed for outcome at the time of discharge from the hospital and after follow-up intervals ranging up to 3 years after injury. Of 650 patients with closed-head injury available for analysis, 93 (14%) were discharged in a vegetative state. In comparison with conscious survivors, patients in a vegetative state sustained more severe closed-head injury as reflected by the Glasgow Coma Scale scores and pupillary findings and more frequently had diffuse injury complicated by swelling or shift in midline structures. Of 84 patients in a vegetative state who provided follow-up data, 41% became conscious by 6 months, 52% regained consciousness by 1 year, and 58% recovered consciousness within the 3-year follow-up interval. A logistic regression failed to identify predictors of recovery from the vegetative state. 
Relationships between requests for psychiatric consultations and psychiatric diagnoses in long-term-care facilities. OBJECTIVE: The authors' objective was to investigate reasons for referral of elderly nursing home residents for psychiatric consultation and the relationship of these reasons for referral to psychiatric diagnoses. METHOD: They examined 197 nursing home residents consecutively referred to a consulting team in a university-affiliated mental health center. These patients represented all patients evaluated by the consulting team at six nursing homes over a 2-year period (Sept. 1, 1984, through Aug. 30, 1986). RESULTS: Reasons for referral were diverse but fell into seven broad clusters: behavioral problems; mood-related problems; consultations requested by involuntary treatment services, patients, physicians, or other referring agencies; psychotic features; physical signs; impaired activities of daily living; and other. Behavioral problems were most commonly cited and tended to be associated with dementia diagnoses. Mood-related reasons for referral were most strongly associated with diagnoses of affective disorders, and diagnoses of schizophrenia and adjustment disorder were each associated with two or more reasons for referral. However, reasons for referral were distributed widely across diagnostic groups and were relatively weak predictors of diagnoses. CONCLUSIONS: The results illustrate the variety of problems for which nursing home staff are willing to seek psychiatric consultation but emphasize the need for professional psychiatric evaluation to establish a diagnostic base on which treatment interventions can be built. 
A simple sore throat? Retropharyngeal emphysema secondary to free-basing cocaine. A case of retropharyngeal emphysema associated with drug abuse is presented. Although chest symptoms of pneumomediastinum have been widely reported with substance abuse, pain localized to the neck is rarely described. In the present case, localized dysphagia was the only complaint, and no free air could be demonstrated within the thorax. For uncomplicated cervical emphysema or pneumomediastinum due to substance abuse, extensive workup may be unnecessary, and conservative therapy, including administration of 100% oxygen and observation is recommended if resolution is prompt. 
Composition of fat in enteral diets can influence outcome in experimental peritonitis. An animal model of protracted acute peritonitis was used to study the effects on survival of different amounts and types of dietary fat. Guinea pigs (n = 132) were provided with gastrostomies and allowed to recover. Intraperitoneal osmotic pumps were then placed, allowing for effusion of viable bacteria during the next week. Three days after pump implantation, the animals were randomized to receive one of nine diets, differing only in fat content (3.5%, 14%, or 56% of total calories) and fat composition (100% Microlipid [primarily safflower oil, rich in linoleic acid], 100% MaxEPA [fish oil containing 35% omega-three fatty acids], or a 50:50 mixture of both oils). At the end of 2 weeks, survival rates were compared. Among all types of fat used, the level of fat did not affect outcome, with survival rates of 13% (6 of 45) at the low level of fat used, 30% (13 of 44) at the medium level, and 26% (11 of 43) at the high level (P greater than 0.10). However fat composition significantly influenced survival across all levels of fat, with a 39% (17 of 44) survival rate in the groups given equal amounts of Microlipid and MaxEPA, compared either to 21% (9 of 44) for the 100% Microlipid groups, or to 9% (4 of 44) for the 100% MaxEPA groups (p less than 0.05). A second experiment was performed with 58 animals fed five different mixtures of fats, all at 14% of total calories. Diets were made with fat ratios of 100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, and 0:100 Microlipid to MaxEPA. The survival rate in the 50:50 group was 83% (10 of 12), which is significantly higher than the survival rates with any of the others (p less than 0.05). It is concluded that the amount of fat in the diet does not strongly influence outcome in this model. However an equal mixture of safflower and fish oils significantly improves survival rates compared to diets made with single-oil preparations. 
An evaluation of clinical variables in determining the need for pelvic examination in the emergency department. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the ability of multiple clinical variables to predict an increased or decreased probability of pelvic pathology, therefore determining when a pelvic examination is needed. DESIGN: Cross-sectional. SETTING: An urban emergency department. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: 246 female patients presenting with abdominal pain and undergoing pelvic examination. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The patients were divided into two groups. Group 1 consisted of 99 patients without pelvic pathology (40%) and group 2 consisted of 147 patients with pelvic pathology (60%). Pelvic pathology was defined as presence of infective discharge (with confirmation on wet mount/potassium hydroxide smear), presence of adnexal mass and/or tenderness, cervical motion tenderness, uterine enlargement and/or tenderness, blood in the vaginal vault, and culture report positive for Neisseria gonorrhea. The following variables achieved statistical significance (P less than .05) using a logistic regression model: history of vaginal discharge (odds ratio, 2.30 [95% confidence interval, 1.23 to 4.32]); history of dysmenorrhea/menorrhagia (4.35 [1.52 to 12.40]); right upper quadrant pain on physical examination (0.33 [0.13 to 0.85]); and left lower quadrant pain on physical examination or history (1.73 [0.94 to 3.19]). CONCLUSION: History of vaginal discharge, history of dysmenorrhea/menorrhagia, and left lower quadrant pain on physical examination act as risk variables predicting presence of pelvic disease. Right upper quadrant pain on physical examination acts as a protective variable to predict absence of pelvic disease. This information may aid the emergency physician in determining the need for a pelvic examination in women with abdominal pain. 
Preliminary report: activation of the cerebellum in essential tremor [published erratum appears in Lancet 1990 Nov 24;336(8726):1330] Several images of cerebral blood flow were recorded during inhalation of carbon-15-labelled carbon dioxide by positron emission tomography in four patients with essential tremor and four normal controls. Unilateral involuntary postural tremor in essential tremor patients was associated with blood flow significantly greater than that at rest in the contralateral sensorimotor cortex, both lateral premotor regions, and both cerebellar hemispheres. Of these regions, only the cerebellum was not activated in normal controls holding a posture without tremor or in essential tremor patients undergoing passive wrist movement. The increased flow in the cerebellum therefore seems to represent neural activity involved in tremor generation. It is proposed that essential tremor is due to oscillation within cerebello-olivary pathways, relayed by way of the thalamus and motor cortex to the spinal cord. 
Enteroscopic diagnosis of small bowel ulceration in patients receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 15 patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and who had chronic occult gastrointestinal bleeding underwent extended small bowel examination with a Sonde enteroscope. 7 patients (47%) were found to have jejunal or ileal ulceration. Small bowel enteroscopy may be a valuable technique for the investigation of undiagnosed gastrointestinal bleeding. 
Therapeutic administration of fibronectin: current uses and potential applications. Fibronectins are a class of multifunctional glycoproteins that exist in soluble and insoluble forms. These glycoproteins are found in nearly all body fluids and in tissue extracellular matrices. Alterations in the normal synthesis, release, and distribution of fibronectins are characteristic features of certain human pathophysiologic conditions. The therapeutic administration of plasma fibronectin to human patients with defects in corneal wound healing and critically ill adult patients with multisystem organ failure appears clinically beneficial, although confirmation is needed from additional trials in progress. In vitro data suggest a role for fibronectin in enhancing (directly and indirectly) the function of phagocytes isolated from the blood of newborn infants. Although as yet untested, it is possible that fibronectin administration to the immunologically immature human neonate may improve host defenses and reduce the risk of nosocomial infection. Additional research is needed to define the factors that regulate the synthesis, isoform expression, and clearance of endogenous fibronectins during normal fetal and neonatal development. Continued research to define the role of endogenous fibronectins in augmenting the inflammatory response of the neonatal host is also required before rational immunotherapeutic interventions can be initiated. 
Organ doses received by atomic bomb survivors during radiological examinations at the Radiation Effects Research Foundation. When evaluating the risks of oncogenesis and cancer mortality following exposure to the radiations of the atomic bombs (A-bombs), the medical X-ray doses received by the A-bomb survivors must also be estimated and considered. Using a human phantom, dosimetry was performed to estimate the X-ray doses received by A-bomb survivors during medical examinations at the Radiation Effects Research Foundation (RERF) as part of the long-term follow-up on the Adult Health Study (AHS). These examinations have been estimated to represent nearly 45% of the survivors' cumulative medical irradiation dose. Doses to the salivary glands, thyroid gland, lung, breast, stomach and colon were measured using thermoluminescent dosimeters. The results, which are reported here, will aid in estimating organ doses received by individual AHS participants. 
Platelet dysfunction in Noonan's syndrome. A case with a platelet cyclooxygenase-like deficiency and chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Individuals with Noonan's syndrome are likely to have one or more coagulation abnormalities: complex platelet function defects, partial Factor XI deficiency, or von Willebrand's disease. A distinctive platelet function defect has not been identified. The authors describe a 24-year-old women with Noonan's syndrome, chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), and a platelet function defect characterized by a greater than 15-minute bleeding time, failure of aggregation and release with 10 microM ADP, 10 microM epinephrine, 750 microM arachidonic acid or 0.019 g/L collagen. A mixture of aspirin-treated platelets with the patient's platelets failed to correct the defect. Addition of 2.5 microM U46619 (a PGG2 analogue) corrected the aggregation and release defect. An electron microscopic analysis failed to reveal structural abnormalities. Thus, the platelet function defect in this patient appears to be a functional deficiency of cyclooxygenase. The presence of autoantiplatelet antibodies in a clinical setting consistent with chronic ITP raises the possibility that the defect may be acquired. 
Autosomal dominant deletions of the mitochondrial genome in a case of progressive encephalomyopathy. Multiple deletions of the mitochondrial genome were found in a family in which the proband had ataxia and ketoacidotic comas. A progressive multiorgan involvement appeared in the course of the disease, and histopathological investigation demonstrated mitochondrial myopathy features with ragged red fibers. A defect of oxidative phosphorylation was found in both skeletal muscle and lymphocytes. It is surprising that various mtDNA deletions were detected both in the proband and in his healthy mother and maternal aunt but not in the rest of the maternal progeny. All the deletions were located between Cox II and cytochrome b genes, and short (4-5 bp) repeated sequences were consistently present at the boundaries of the rearrangements in different tissues. Therefore, the deletions appear not to be transmitted per se but to be inherited in a Mendelian manner, being possibly dominant. Both the Mendelian inheritance of the trait and the variety of the deletions in carriers suggest that a nuclearly encoded factor(s) might be involved in the triggering of the deletions. However, the presence of the rearrangements in healthy individuals raises the question of whether mtDNA deletions actually cause the clinical expression of the disease. 
Dehydration syndromes. Oral rehydration and fluid replacement. Dehydration caused by diarrhea remains a major source of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Dehydration is a common clinical presentation seen by most physicians. Clinical diagnosis depends on the recognition of signs and symptoms as well as change in weight. Laboratory studies are helpful in categorizing the dehydration as isotonic, hyponatremic, or hypernatremic, which is necessary to plan appropriate therapy. In many situations, oral rehydration therapy is possible and desirable. Intravenous rehydration remains the standard of care for children with severe dehydration and shock. 
Frequency of inflammatory bowel disease in offspring of couples both presenting with inflammatory bowel disease. A private practice was surveyed for prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in husband-wife partners and in their children. Among approximately 2500 patients with IBD in our files, 19 couples were identified. They were subdivided into group A (n = 5) in which both partners had symptoms of IBD before marriage; group B (n = 7) in which only one spouse had IBD before marriage and the other partner experienced symptoms afterwards; and group C (n = 7) in which neither spouse had symptoms before marriage but IBD subsequently developed in both. In group B, the disease developed in the second spouse 2-16 years after marriage (mean, 6.4 years). In group C, IBD developed in the first spouse 0.3-41 years after marriage and in the second spouse 1-14 years after the first spouse (mean, 6.8 years). Thirty-five children have been born to 16 of the couples. Two children died before age 20. Of the surviving 33 children, IBD has already developed in 12 (36%). Among the other 21 unaffected children, 1 had uveitis at age 9 and 10 are still under the age of 21, perhaps too young to have yet developed IBD. The frequency of IBD in children was slightly higher if both parents had already developed IBD at the time of conception (67%) compared with when only 1 parent (50%) or neither parent (50%) had developed IBD when conception occurred. Although these data do not distinguish genetic from environmental factors, they show a higher risk of IBD in children when both parents have this illness. 
Regional differences in elastic recoil after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty: a quantitative angiographic study. The immediate result of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is influenced by both plastic and elastic changes of the vessel wall. To evaluate the amount of elastic recoil after coronary balloon angioplasty, the minimal luminal cross-sectional area of the largest balloon used at highest inflation pressure was compared with the minimal luminal vessel cross-sectional area directly after final balloon deflation in 607 lesions (526 patients). Elastic recoil was defined as the difference between balloon cross-sectional area and minimal luminal cross-sectional area of the dilated coronary segment immediately after balloon withdrawal. A videodensitometric analysis technique was used to avoid geometric assumptions on stenosis morphology directly after angioplasty. Mean balloon cross-sectional area was 5.3 +/- 1.6 mm2 and minimal luminal cross-sectional area after angioplasty was 2.8 +/- 1.4 mm2. Reference areas before and after angioplasty did not differ (6.0 +/- 2.6 and 6.2 +/- 2.6 mm2, respectively). Univariate analysis revealed that asymmetric lesions, lesions located in less angulated parts of the artery and lesions with a low plaque content showed more elastic recoil. Lesions located in distal parts of the coronary tree were also associated with more elastic recoil probably related to relative balloon oversizing in these distal lesions. 
Wohlfart-Kugelberg-Welander syndrome: serum creatine kinase and functional outcome. The medical records of 31 patients (19 male and 12 female) with clinical and electrophysiologic features of Wohlfart-Kugelberg-Welander syndrome were reviewed. The reported age at onset ranged from less than one year to 46 years, and the age at diagnosis ranged from three to 66 years. Proximal muscle weakness, especially of the lower extremities, and muscular atrophy were the predominant clinical features. Elevated serum creatine kinase levels were noted in four female and 12 male patients, and the degree of elevation was higher in the male patients (up to 32 times the upper limit of normal) than in the female patients. On initial evaluation, two patients were wheelchair-bound, whereas the others were ambulatory. On follow-up evaluation three to 32 years later (mean, 15.5 years), 11 patients used wheelchairs, although only three were wheelchair-bound. The disease followed a steady, slowly progressive course. The outcome of ambulatory status did not correlate with the initial creatine kinase determination. 
Use of aspiration cytology and frozen section examination for management of benign and malignant thyroid nodules. Between January 1980 and December 1988, 161 patients underwent thyroidectomy with intraoperative frozen section consultation after fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of a thyroid nodule. The FNA were insufficient in 15 instances (9%) and in error in 39 (24%). In 15 cases, the incorrect aspiration diagnosis could have led to excessive surgery and in ten cases to delayed therapy if it had been the only guide for therapy. The diagnosis was deferred to permanent section analysis in 30 (19%) frozen sections. Twenty-two errors (14% of cases) were made in the interpretation of frozen section material, and in an additional 15 patients (9%), the diagnosis suggested (but deferred at frozen section) was in error. In one patient, this error could have led to more extensive surgery than necessary; in 21 patients, the frozen section error could have led to undertreatment. When frozen section results were combined with those of FNA, no therapeutically important false-positive diagnoses were made. In five patients, the combination of both FNA and frozen section results would not have identified a carcinoma which, in three cases, was a small occult papillary carcinoma not found in the index nodule. 
Fc epsilon RI-mediated hydrolysis of phosphoinositides in ghosts derived from rat basophilic leukemia cells. Aggregation of the high affinity receptor for IgE (Fc epsilon RI) on mast cells by a polyvalent Ag leads to hydrolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) catalyzed by phospholipase C (PI-PLC). To understand this phenomenon in molecular terms, it is important to obtain active, cell-free preparations. In extensive preliminary studies, we could not demonstrate Fc epsilon RI-mediated activation of PI-PLC in plasma membranes prepared by conventional methods from rat basophilic leukemia cells. We now report a stepwise approach involving preparation of cytoplasts from such cells and then hypotonic lysis of the cytoplasts to obtain active membrane vesicles. These membranes, best described as "ghosts," appear to reseal after losing greater than 90% of their soluble, cytoplasmic components and contain receptors that when aggregated, activate PI-PLC to hydrolyze endogenous phospholipids. Per unit of plasma membrane, the ghosts retain approximately 25% of Fc epsilon RI-mediated stimulation of PI-PLC relative to the cells. This activity requires ATP, magnesium, phosphoenolpyruvate, and, to a limited degree, calcium. Although an adequate amount of phosphatidylinositol biphosphate is present, the predicted spike of (1,4,5)-inositol trisphosphate is not seen, and the predominant inositol phosphate isomer is (1,4)-inositol bisphosphate. This is the first report of Fc epsilon RI-mediated activation of PI-PLC in a cytoplasm-depleted system that demonstrates activation of endogenous enzyme acting on endogenous substrate. In addition, it is the first such report for any receptor of the Ig superfamily. 
Embolization of cardiac myxomas masquerading as polyarteritis nodosa. Cardiac myxomas are rare tumors which can mimic other diseases. We describe a 19-year-old man who presented clinically with polyarteritis nodosa (PAN). Muscle biopsy showed vasculitis, but corticosteroid and immunosuppressive therapy was initially effective. Cardiac myxomas were found by echocardiogram when the disease relapsed and were resected surgically. Segmental arterial aneurysms and stenoses were found on angiography after leg ischemia. We suggest that echocardiography should be performed in all cases of clinically suspected PAN. 
Virchow-Troisier's lymph node in hepatocellular carcinoma. Virchow-Troisier's lymph node is rarely found in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. When present, it may or may not accompany spread of the tumor to mediastinal lymph nodes. In a 20-year-old South African black man with hepatocellular carcinoma, a Virchow-Troisier's node was evident clinically and confirmed at necropsy. Mediastinal lymph nodes were not involved by tumor, and the malignant cells probably gained access to the thoracic duct by way of lymphatic spread to the hepatic lymph nodes in the porta hepatitis and the celiac nodes, both of which were seen at necropsy to be extensively invaded by tumor. 
How much testing is needed after myocardial infarction? Both physicians and patients should be encouraged by the tremendous progress made in the clinical care of patients with heart disease during the last 20 years. However, the number of invasive and noninvasive tests is vast, so they need to be applied judiciously, using a reasonable set of clinical principles to recognize the needs of the individual patient. In the case of myocardial infarction, one of the most important prognostic factors is left ventricular systolic function, which is commonly measured by the ejection fraction. This measurement can be made with a left ventriculogram, radionuclide ventriculogram, or two-dimensional echocardiogram, the choice depending on individual circumstances. 
Epidemiology, pathophysiology, and management of isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly. Isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) is a common disorder in the elderly, carrying with it a high risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Environmental and age-related factors believed to contribute to ISH include obesity, declining physical activity, stress, and such dietary changes as increased salt intake and decreased intake of calcium and potassium. Increased rigidity of the aorta resulting in reduced compliance is an important hemodynamic feature, but factors that increase peripheral resistance also appear to play a role. Antihypertensive drugs have been shown to effectively and safely lower the systolic blood pressure elevations characteristic of ISH. To date, use of low drug doses and careful titration of dosage have avoided significant orthostatic hypotension and undue lowering of the diastolic pressure. Studies of relatively small groups of patients suggest that antihypertensive drugs can lower the risk of cardiovascular morbidity/mortality associated with ISH but the definitive answer awaits results of the ongoing large-scale Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program trial. In the interim, management should begin with conservative measures such as weight loss, salt restriction and, possibly, calcium supplementation. If this fails, drug therapy should be considered in patients with systolic blood pressures above 180 mm Hg and in those with systolic readings between 160 and 180 mm Hg who have concomitant cardiovascular risk factors. To date, no controlled trials of sufficient size have demonstrated that one drug class is more effective than another in treating ISH. Drug therapy should be tailored to the individual patient, starting with a low dose of a single drug and, if necessary, slowly increasing dosage until a systolic blood pressure under 160 mm Hg is attained. 
Helicobacter pylori: aggressor or innocent bystander? Helicobacter pylori seeks gastric mucosa, whether found in the stomach, duodenum, or Barrett's esophagus. Definitive diagnosis can be secured by appropriate stains of mucosal biopsies and culture, but the rapid urease test, breath isotope studies, and serologic testing are also useful. The frequency of colonization increases with advancing age, but infection occurs earlier in underdeveloped countries. Although the reservoir is uncertain, water or food transmission seems likely. There is sufficient evidence to assign an etiologic role to the bacteria in the causation of type B antral gastritis. H. pylori is found in areas of gastric metaplasia within the duodenum and is associated with duodenitis. Although acute infection leads to hypochlorhydria, chronic colonization has little effect on acid secretion. Studies have thus far failed to establish a convincing relationship between H. pylori and nonulcer dyspepsia, although the bacteria may play a role in selected patients. H. pylori is found in association with most idiopathic gastric and duodenal ulcers, but it is unclear as to whether the bacteria plays a causative or permissive role. The organism has a predilection for intercellular spaces and the mucous layer, thus affording relative isolation from luminally active antibiotics. Monotherapy with bismuth preparations transiently eliminates the bacteria, but recolonization is rapid, probably due to regrowth of sequestered organisms. A combination of metronidazole, bismuth, and tetracycline (or amoxicillin) affords the best eradication rate, but the potential side effects of this program should be considered. The present therapy of duodenal ulcer disease is effective and without significant risk. Treatment of H. pylori should be reserved for those patients who relapse on adequate maintenance therapy. If a safe and effective antibiotic becomes available, more frequent testing and earlier treatment intervention may become more attractive. H. pylori is probably an "innocent bystander" for most patients, but the bacteria may sufficiently impair the defenses of the antral and duodenal mucosa to facilitate the development and relapse of ulcer disease in subsets of patients. 
Retinoblastoma. The long-term appearance of radiated intraocular tumors. A retrospective analysis of 50 patients with retinoblastoma was undertaken to determine the appearance of intraocular retinoblastoma that had received external beam radiation a minimum of 10 years previously. Of the 91 tumors found in 59 eyes, 76 (84%) continued to be ophthalmoscopically visible after 10 years. The most common ophthalmoscopic appearance was a Type III regression pattern. The type of radiation regression pattern correlated with the pretreatment volume of the tumor. The largest tumors (mean, 10.0 disc diameter [dd]) became Type I regression patterns, whereas the smallest tumors (mean, 1.0 dd) completely disappeared. This represents the first long-term follow-up of the intraocular status of radiated retinoblastoma. 
L-type cardiac calcium channels in doxorubicin cardiomyopathy in rats morphological, biochemical, and functional correlations. Doxorubicin (DXR) is an effective antitumor agent in a wide spectrum of neoplasms. Chronic treatment is associated with cardiomyopathy and characteristic myocardial ultrastructural changes, which include swelling of the t tubules. Accordingly, we investigated excitation-contraction coupling in cardiomyopathic rat heart resulting from chronic DXR treatment. Using the whole-cell patch clamp technique, we studied the L-type calcium channel in single cells enzymatically isolated from normal (CTRL) and DXR rat hearts. Despite similar cell dimensions, the total membrane capacitance was significantly smaller in the DXR cells (138 +/- 9 pF) than in the CTRL cells (169 +/- 11 pF) (mean +/- SEM, n = 9, P less than 0.05). The mean current and the current density-voltage relationships of the CTRL and the DXR cells were significantly different (n = 9, P less than 0.001) with the maximal peak L-type calcium current (ICa) density increased from 6.4 +/- 0.9 in CTRL cells to 10.5 +/- 2.4 microA/cm2 in the DXR cells (P less than 0.05). There was no shift either in the current-voltage relationship or the steady-state inactivation curve in the two cell groups. However, the fast time constant of inactivation was increased at a membrane voltage of -10 to 10 mV. Calcium channel antagonist equilibrium binding assays using [3H]-PN200-110 revealed no difference in the maximal receptor binding capacity (CTRL, 194 +/- 27 and DXR 211 +/- 24 fmol/mg protein; P greater than 0.05, n = 6) and in receptor affinity (CTRL, 0.15 +/- 0.05 and DXR 0.13 +/- 0.03 nM; P less than 0.05). These data suggest that a decrease in effective capacitance might be associated with t-tubular damage. Despite this decrease, ICa was increased in the DXR cells. Such an increase may result from an alteration in the properties of the calcium channels and/or recruitment of "hibernating" channels in the remaining surface and t-tubular membranes. 
Hypersomnia in bipolar depression: a comparison with narcolepsy using the multiple sleep latency test. OBJECTIVE: This study characterized objectively the hypersomnia frequently seen in the depressed phase of bipolar affective disorder. On the basis of previous work in sleep and affective disorders, it has been hypothesized that the hypersomnia is related to greater REM sleep. This hypothesis was tested by using a multiple sleep latency test to compare bipolar affective disorder with narcolepsy, a well-defined primary sleep disorder associated with known REM sleep dysfunction. METHOD: Twenty-five bipolar depressed patients were selected on the basis of complaints of hypersomnia. They underwent 2 nights of polysomnography followed by a multiple sleep latency test. Data on their nocturnal sleep and daytime naps were compared with similar data on 23 nondepressed narcoleptic patients referred for sleep evaluation. RESULTS: Despite their complaints of hypersomnia, no abnormalities were noted for the bipolar group in the results from the multiple sleep latency test. Contrary to the working hypothesis, REM sleep was notably absent during daytime naps in the depressed patients, in marked contrast to the findings for the narcoleptic group. CONCLUSIONS: The complaint of sleepiness in the hypersomnic bipolar depressed patient appears to be related to the lack of interest, withdrawal, decreased energy, or psychomotor retardation inherent in the anergic depressed condition, rather than an increase in true sleep propensity or REM sleep propensity. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction in multiple symmetrical lipomatosis. Multiple symmetrical lipomatosis is a striking clinical finding associated with a variety of peripheral and central nervous system abnormalities. We describe 4 unrelated patients with evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle. Multiple symmetrical lipomatosis is an additional, albeit unusual, manifestation of the expanding clinical spectrum of mitochondrial diseases. 
Overzealous resuscitation of an extremely malnourished patient with nutritional cardiomyopathy. Overzealous resuscitation of the severely malnourished patient may be associated with life-threatening complications. A variety of electrolyte, hemodynamic, septic, and nutritional derangements may result in sudden decompensation and even death. We present a case that dramatically illustrates these complications and focuses on the key role of underlying nutritional cardiomyopathy. 
The risk of ligation of the left renal vein in resection of the abdominal aortic aneurysm. The left renal vein can be ligated during aortic operation to attain better access to the perirenal aorta. This maneuver has been considered safe, with a low incidence of postoperative renal complications. This study was done to evaluate the risk of left renal vein ligation and its influence on renal function in patients with elective resection of abdominal aortic aneurysms. The records of 332 patients undergoing elective repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms during a five year period were reviewed. The clinical and operative data of patients who had left renal vein ligation and those who did not were similar. Left renal vein ligation was not associated with an increased mortality rate but was strongly associated with an increase in serum creatinine level and a clinical diagnosis of postoperative azotemia. Nine of 13 patients who had left renal vein ligation had postoperative azotemia compared with 21 of 319 patients without left renal vein ligation (p less than 0.001). The mean change of preoperative and postoperative creatinine value was an increase of 1.92 milligrams per deciliter in patients with left renal vein ligation in contrast with 0.26 milligram per deciliter in patients without ligation (p less than 0.00075). Thus, ligation of the left renal vein increases the risk of postoperative renal complications and its use should be selective. 
Role of quinsy tonsillectomy in the management of peritonsillar abscess. Peritonsillar abscess (PTA) is the most frequent complication of acute tonsillitis requiring surgical intervention. Debate continues concerning optimal therapy in terms of patient morbidity and cost-effectiveness. A retrospective study was performed on 45 tonsillectomies for PTA in military personnel from December 1986 through December 1988. Twenty-three quinsy (abscess) tonsillectomies and 22 interval tonsillectomies were identified. Parameters studied were age, sex, abscess location, interval prior to operation, blood loss, operative time, operative experience, and combined hospital and convalescent days for the two groups. Significant differences were noted between the quinsy and interval tonsillectomy groups concerning the average number of days hospitalized (3.0 versus 4.5) and their respective convalescent periods (10.3 versus 17.3). We conclude that quinsy tonsillectomy is the best management for PTA in a young work force when the optimal treatment choice is between interval or acute tonsillectomy. 
Preventing death after traumatic rupture of the aorta. A chest film may help save a life. Traumatic rupture of the aorta is a life-threatening injury that necessitates immediate diagnosis and surgical repair. Diagnosis depends on recognition of findings on a plain chest film, specifically, mediastinal widening, left hemothorax, and an apical cap sign. Aortography should be done immediately to establish the diagnosis when clinical and/or radiographic findings suggest a rupture. 
Pediatric emergency transport and the private practitioner. A mail survey of 182 pediatricians and 92 family practitioners in Pennsylvania was conducted to determine their methods of transport of seriously ill children from their offices to referral centers and their involvement with professional transport services. Although most physicians (93.1%) stated that they had professional services available to them (at their office location), more than half (53.8%) indicated that the patient's family automobile was their most commonly used method of transport of ill children to tertiary care centers. This was true regardless of the disease entity involved, including suspected epiglottitis. Practice setting had little influence on transport method. However, in general, younger children were judged to need ambulance transport more often than older children. Reasons cited for not using professional transport from the office included a perceived better efficiency of the family car (61.8%), the prohibitively high expense of professional transport (9.8%), and failure to consider professional transport (6.5%). Further study of this component of office preparedness is suggested. 
Lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome in a female with a balanced X;20 translocation: mapping of the X chromosome breakpoint. A Hispanic girl with Lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome (OCRL), an X-linked recessive condition characterized by cataracts, glaucoma, mental retardation, and proteinuria, is reported. A balanced X;20 chromosomal translocation with the X chromosome breakpoint at q26.1 was found with high-resolution trypsin-Giemsa banding. Somatic cell hybridization was used to separate the X chromosome derivative and the chromosome 20 derivative in order to position, with respect to the translocation breakpoint, several DNA loci that are linked to the Lowe syndrome locus (Xq24-q26). DXS10 and DXS53 were found to be distal to the breakpoint, whereas DXS37 and DXS42 were located proximal to it. These studies suggest that the OCRL locus lies in the region between these probes. The translocation chromosome originated from an unaffected male without a visible translocation, indicating that the most likely cause of OCRL in this patient is the de novo translocation that disrupted the OCRL locus. 
Long-term clinical follow-up of adult idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis and celiac disease. A 22-year-old man with a history of repeated whole blood transfusions since the age of 7, was admitted to the hospital for dyspnea and blood-stained sputum. A complete blood cell count, a test for reticulin antibodies, an x-ray film of the chest, a transbronchial biopsy and a biopsy of the small bowel were performed and the results confirmed the diagnosis of IPH, associated with CD. The patient has been asymptomatic for four years on a gluten-free diet. In cases of IPH, it may be important to investigate the coexistence of CD because treatment of the latter could lead to a better prognosis. 
Hemifacial spasm in an infant due to fourth ventricular ganglioglioma. Case report. The case of an infant is reported in which hemifacial spasm due to a ganglioglioma of the fourth ventricle was relieved by surgery. Previously described causes of hemifacial spasm are summarized, and the relevance of this case to theories on the pathogenesis of the condition is discussed. 
Surgical strategies in the treatment of pancreatic necrosis and infection. Controversy still surrounds the management of necrotic and septic complications of acute pancreatitis. A review of the literature of the past decade dealing with the surgical treatment of pancreatic necrosis, pancreatic abscess and infected pancreatic necrosis has been undertaken. Three main patterns of management could be identified: (1) 'conventional treatment', consisting of pancreatic resection or necrosectomy with drainage; (2) 'local lavage', consisting of necrosectomy followed by regional lavage; and (3) 'open management', with resection or necrosectomy followed by planned multiple re-explorations. From this review it appears that local lavage and open management offer better survival prospects than conventional treatment. Open abdomen techniques, however, are associated with an increased risk of complications, such as colonic necrosis, intestinal fistula, and intra-abdominal bleeding. Excellent results can be achieved in specialized centres with any of the three methods, provided adequate debridement and prompt reoperations are undertaken if the septic state persists. 
Characterization of Bay U 3405, a novel thromboxane A2/endoperoxide receptor antagonist. The thromboxane A2-receptor antagonistic properties of Bay U 3405 [(3R)-3-(4-fluorophenylsulfonamido)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-9-carbaz o-lepropanoic acid] have been evaluated in various pharmacologic models. Bay U 3405 specifically inhibits platelet aggregation induced by U 46619, collagen, platelet-activating factor, and the second wave of ADP (IC50 0.5, 0.07, 0.3, 0.19 microM) in human plasma. The plasma phase of ADP-induced aggregation is not affected. U 46619-induced platelet aggregation is competitively antagonized (pA2 = 6.3). In humans, ex vivo platelet aggregation is inhibited after oral application of 2 or 50 mg Bay U 3405. Bay U 3405 also specifically and competitively antagonizes U 46619-induced contractions of rabbit aortic rings (pA2 = 7.4). In vivo, Bay U 3405 protects rabbits dose dependently from arachidonic acid or collagen-induced thromboembolism (ED50 1-3 mg/kg p.o). Chronic administration of Bay U 3405 to stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats reduces stroke-related mortality and diminishes the occurrence of cerebral hemorrhages. From these results, we conclude that Bay U 3405 is an orally active, selective, and competitive thromboxane A2-receptor antagonist that may be beneficial in the treatment of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular diseases. 
Prednisone inhibits the appearance of inflammatory mediators and the influx of eosinophils and basophils associated with the cutaneous late-phase response to allergen. To better define the effect of systemic glucocorticoids on the cutaneous early and late phase response (LPR), nine atopic subjects were examined in a double-blind cross-over study using skin chambers fixed over denuded skin blisters. A challenge was carried out by placing allergen in the chamber for 60 min in subjects who received either a 3-day pretreatment with 60 mg/day of prednisone or placebo. Skin chamber cell counts and inflammatory mediators (histamine, PGD2, and leukotriene C4 (LTC4)) were measured at hourly intervals for 12 h. Prednisone pretreatment did not alter the immediate skin erythema or release of histamine but ablated the late secondary erythema and rise in histamine. The median histamine values during h 10, 11, and 12 in the placebo and prednisone pretreatment visits were 3.73 and 0.22 ng/ml, respectively (p less than or equal to 0.02). Prednisone did not alter PGD2 production; however, LTC4 production was suppressed during the LPR. The cumulative median LTC4 values during h 7, 8, and 9 were 5.6-fold (p less than or equal to 0.05) more after placebo than after prednisone pretreatment. Prednisone altered cellular traffic more dramatically than it did inflammatory mediators. The influx of eosinophils, which peaked during the 9th and 10th h in placebo-treated patients, was completely blocked by prednisone (p less than or equal to 0.02) for every h from 6 through 12. The influx of basophils, which started during the 9th h and peaked during the 12th h in placebo-treated patients, was suppressed at all time points (p less than or equal to 0.02) in prednisone-treated patients. There was no significant alteration in neutrophil transit into the skin chambers induced by prednisone. We suggest that the selective blockade of eosinophil and basophil influx by prednisone and the associated decrease in inflammatory mediators may contribute to the blockade of the clinical expression of the cutaneous LPR. 
Separate sex-influenced and genetic components in spontaneously hypertensive rat hypertension. Previous results from our laboratory indicated two major genetic components of spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) hypertension, an autosomal component and a Y chromosome component. Two new substrains, SHR/a and SHR/y, were developed using a series of backcrosses to isolate each of these components. The SHR/a substrain has the autosomal loci and X chromosome from the SHR strain and the Y chromosome from the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat strain. The SHR/y substrain has only the Y chromosome from the SHR and autosomal loci and X chromosome from the WKY strain. Throughout these breeding programs parents were chosen at random without selection for blood pressure. Males of both substrains maintained blood pressures over 180 mm Hg. Comparisons of blood pressure in these new substrains with the original parental strains can be used to determine the relative proportions of each genetic component in hypertension. The Y chromosome component contributes 34 mm Hg, which is the difference between SHR/y male and WKY male blood pressure. The total autosomal component contributes 46 mm Hg, which is the difference between SHR/a male and WKY male blood pressure. The autosomal component is a sex-influenced trait; males in the SHR/a strain have significantly higher pressures than SHR/a females. Of the 46 mm Hg estimated for the autosomal component, 41 mm Hg is the result of these loci interacting with male phenotypic sex. This sex-influenced component is separate and distinct from the Y chromosome component. 
Progressive loss of speech output and orofacial dyspraxia associated with frontal lobe hypometabolism. Three patients are described with slowly progressive loss of speech and dysarthria associated with orofacial dyspraxia, initially with intact written language, who subsequently developed more widespread cognitive abnormalities. Positron emission tomography (PET) revealed bifrontal hypometabolism in all of the patients, most marked in the inferior and lateral portions of both frontal lobes, with some extension into the parietal and temporal cortices in one case. These patients may represent a further example of focal progressive cortical degeneration. 
Hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy in the limited form of Wegener's granulomatosis. A patient with the limited form of Wegener's granulomatosis is reported. The case is unusual because of hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy, severe ulceration of the respiratory and digestive tracts, and the rapidly fatal outcome. 
Elective total hip arthroplasty in patients older than 80 years of age. Elective total hip arthroplasties (THA) were performed in 91 patients (101 hips) older than 80 years of age at operation. A control group of 87 patients (102 hips) aged 64 to 67 years who had elective THA was chosen statistically to represent the average THA patient. There were 51 minor and eight major perioperative complications in the elderly group and 26 minor and two major complications in the control group. The only in-hospital death was in the control group. The mean hospital stay was two days longer in the elderly group. Five years postoperatively, 83% of the patients in both groups were ambulating without pain. The mean hip score improved from 49 to 84 points in the elderly group and from 52 to 88 points in the control group. These functional results justify elective THA in patients older than 80 years of age. 
Proarrhythmia, cardiac arrest and death in young patients receiving encainide and flecainide. The Pediatric Electrophysiology Group The potential for proarrhythmic responses to the class IC sodium channel-blocking drugs encainide and flecainide has not been well described in young patients. Therefore, data were retrospectively collected from 36 institutions regarding 579 young patients who were administered encainide or flecainide for treatment of supraventricular tachycardias (encainide 86 patients, flecainide 369 patients) or ventricular arrhythmias (encainide 21 patients, flecainide 103 patients) to assess the frequency of proarrhythmia, cardiac arrest and death during therapy (adverse events). The two drugs were similar in regard to efficacy (flecainide 71.4%, encainide 59.8%) and rate of proarrhythmic responses (flecainide 7.4%; encainide 7.5%). However, patients receiving encainide more frequently experienced cardiac arrest (encainide 7.5% vs. flecainide 2.3%, p less than 0.05) or died during treatment (encainide 7.5% vs. flecainide 2.1%, p less than 0.05). Detailed data were provided for 44 patients experiencing one or more adverse events. Patient age, previous drug trials, concomitant therapy and days of inpatient monitoring were similar for patients receiving encainide or flecainide. However, echocardiographic left ventricular shortening before treatment was lower among patients receiving encainide (0.23 +/- 0.09) than among those receiving flecainide (0.34 +/- 0.06, p less than 0.05). Plasma drug concentrations were rarely elevated. Cardiac arrest (12 patients) and deaths (13 patients) occurred predominantly among patients with underlying heart disease, particularly among patients receiving flecainide for supraventricular tachycardia (8.3% vs. 0.3%, p less than 0.001). Fifteen patients with an ostensibly normal heart and normal ventricular function experienced proarrhythmia during treatment for supraventricular tachycardia, but only 3 of the 15 had a cardiac arrest or died. The relatively high incidence of adverse events should be considered when contemplating treatment with encainide or flecainide, particularly among patients with underlying heart disease. 
Genetics of colon cancer. Strikingly rapid advances in the identification of genetic events that are important in colonic carcinogenesis have been made in the past several years. Specific inherited (adenomatous polyposis coli gene) and acquired (ras gene point mutations; c-myc gene amplification; allelic deletion at specific sites on chromosomes 5, 17, and 18) genetic abnormalities appear to be capable of mediating steps in the progression from normal to malignant colonic mucosa. Understanding these genetic factors and how they influence cellular function will have a profound effect on medical practice. High-risk populations will be (and are being) identified by genetic markers, thus allowing prevention and screening to be more precisely targeted to the population at risk; intervention strategies will be designed on the basis of the known cellular defects of neoplastic colonic mucosa; and new molecular preventive and therapeutic approaches can be developed. 
Fractures of the dens complicating ankylosing spondylitis with atlantooccipital fusion. Patients with ankylosing spondylitis are prone to fractures. Fractures tend to occur in the lower cervical spine disc space. We describe 2 patients with odontoid fractures. Both patients had atlantooccipital fusion which may have increased their susceptibility for dens fractures. One patient had Crohn's disease. 
Cytokine influence on killing of fresh chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells by human leukocytes. The feasibility of combining the Lym-1 monoclonal antibody (MoAb) with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was evaluated. We used an in vitro tumor lysis model that incorporated fresh CLL cells from 21 different patients as targets for two distinct normal human leukocyte effector subsets, neutrophils, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Lym-1 antigen (Lym-1-Ag) expression varied greatly and did not correlate with the expression of other CLL-associated antigens such as CD5, CD19, or HLA-DR. CLL cells were not lysed by neutrophils alone or with IFN-gamma in the absence of Lym-1. Neutrophil Lym-1-dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC) in the absence of IFN-gamma was weak and inconsistent. IFN-gamma exposure induced MoAb-dependent lysis of 80% of 21 CLL targets and resulted in an eightfold augmentation of neutrophil ADCC against the remainder. Cytotoxicity correlated directly and positively with Lym-1-Ag expression. Confirmation of the need for interaction between neutrophil IgG Fc receptors (Fc gamma Rs) and the Fc portion of the Lym-1 MoAb was obtained by demonstrating that purified Staphylococcus aureus Protein A (SpA) inhibited ADCC. IFN-gamma exposure caused no consistent alternations in Lym-1-Ag expression on CLL cells so that target antigen upregulation was unlikely to account for augmentation of neutrophil ADCC. PBMCs alone, exposed to interkeukin-2 (IL-2) or IFN-gamma, or with Lym-1 in the presence or absence of IL-2 or IFN-gamma were unable to lyse CLL targets. PBMCs were able to kill Raji Burkitt lymphoma cells in conjunction with Lym-1, so their ability to interact with Lym-1-coated targets and their lytic functions appeared intact. These results emphasize the importance of examining fresh tumor cells with different leukocyte effector subsets before designing a clinical trial that combines a therapeutic MoAb with a cytokine. 
Esophagogastric neoplasms: palliation with a modified gianturco stent. Self-expanding metallic stents of a modified Gianturco design were used for palliative treatment of malignant esophagogastric strictures. Over a 10-month period, 10 stents were placed in nine patients. All patients with severe dysphagia due to malignant strictures in whom all other treatment options had failed were candidates for these stents. Neither extensive length of esophageal involvement nor complete esophageal obstruction was a contraindication. All stents were placed with fluoroscopic guidance without any technical failures or procedural morbidity or mortality. Mild reflux occurred in three patients in whom the stent tubes straddled the distal esophageal sphincter. Five patients were still alive after 1-8 months. The remaining four patients died 6-28 weeks after stent placement; all stents were patent at the time of death. These stents are easy to insert, safe, and reasonably effective for short-term palliative treatment of esophagogastric neoplasms. 
Transforming growth factor beta 1 is present at sites of extracellular matrix gene expression in human pulmonary fibrosis. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is an inexorably fatal disorder characterized by connective tissue deposition within the terminal air spaces resulting in loss of lung function and eventual respiratory failure. Previously, we demonstrated that foci of activated fibroblasts expressing high levels of fibronectin, procollagen, and smooth muscle actin and thus resembling those found in healing wounds are responsible for the connective tissue deposition and scarring in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we now demonstrate the presence of transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), a potent profibrotic cytokine, in the foci containing these activated fibroblasts. These results suggest that matrix-associated TGF-beta 1 may serve as a stimulus for the persistent expression of connective tissue genes. One potential source of the TGF-beta 1 is the alveolar macrophage, and we demonstrate the expression of abundant TGF-beta 1 mRNA in alveolar macrophages in lung tissue from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. 
Vasopressin-dependent kidney hypertrophy: role of urinary concentration in protein-induced hypertrophy and in the progression of chronic renal failure. Recent experiments have shown that the kidney adapts to chronic variations in urine concentration. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), kidney weight relative to body weight, thickness of inner stripe of the outer medulla, volume of epithelium in early thick ascending limb, and internephron heterogeneity are all decreased by chronic water diuresis and increased by chronic stimulation of urine concentration. It was further shown that the intrarenal pattern of hypertrophy observed after high protein (HP) intake, but not that observed after compensatory hypertrophy or normal growth with age, is exactly similar to that observed after chronic stimulation of urine concentration. Since solute-free water reabsorption (TcH2O) is markedly enhanced by HP diet, this suggests that the increases in GFR and renal mass observed after HP intake are, at least in part, an adaptive response of the kidney to increased urinary concentrating activity. The beneficial effects are induced by protein restriction in chronic renal failure (CRF) could thus be due, in part, to the reduction of this concentrating activity. This hypothesis was confirmed by an experiment performed in rats with experimental chronic renal failure (CRF) in which a chronic increase in water intake, reducing urine osmolality and TcH2O, without any change in food composition or consumption, reduced proteinuria, systemic hypertension, kidney hypertrophy, incidence of glomerulosclerosis, and mortality. 
Inefficacy and proarrhythmic effects of flecainide and encainide for sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of encainide and flecainide in treating patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias. DESIGN: Patients were treated with encainide or flecainide. Efficacy was assessed by comparing the results of programmed ventricular stimulation while patients received therapy with the results while they were drug free. SETTING: The electrophysiology laboratory of the University of California at San Francisco. PATIENTS: Forty-nine patients with spontaneous or inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation for whom treatment with at least one class IA antiarrhythmic agent had failed. INTERVENTIONS: Patients were treated with encainide, 35 to 50 mg three or four times daily, or flecainide, 100 to 200 mg twice daily. RESULTS: Arrhythmia worsened early in 5 of 16 patients receiving encainide and 3 of 33 patients receiving flecainide. Patients with poor left ventricular function were more likely to exhibit proarrhythmia (P = 0.02). Nine of eleven patients receiving encainide and 23 of 28 patients receiving flecainide who had repeat programmed ventricular stimulation while receiving drug therapy still had inducible, poorly tolerated ventricular tachycardia. CONCLUSION: Encainide and flecainide have a low efficacy rate and a high incidence of worsening of arrhythmia in patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias, particularly when this condition is associated with poor left ventricular function. 
Stressful life events and symptom onset in HIV infection. OBJECTIVE: The authors' goal is to provide basic epidemiologic data on the issue of reactivity to stress and HIV symptom onset by studying the relationship between a broad set of naturally occurring stressor events and HIV natural history in a large longitudinal community sample of HIV-seropositive homosexual men. METHOD: Subjects were recruited from a cohort of 1,011 homosexual men enrolled in the Chicago site of the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study who also participated in the Coping and Change Study. The men were given self-administered questionnaires assessing behavioral, psychological, and psychosocial variables. Relationships between reports of stressful life events and longitudinal biomedical data measuring illness progression were examined. Life events were assessed by reports on the numbers of lovers, friends, and acquaintances who were diagnosed with AIDS or had died of AIDS and by scores on a checklist of 24 more general serious stressor events. The variables indicating progression of illness among initially asymptomatic men were a drop in T-helper lymphocyte percent (CD4%) between pairs of examinations of at least 25% and onset between examinations of thrush and/or fever lasting a minimum of 2 weeks. RESULTS: The authors found no evidence that serious stressor events have any meaningful effect on symptom onset indicated by either a drop in CD4% or onset of fever or thrush. CONCLUSIONS: There is no need for asymptomatic people with HIV infection to restrict their lives in order to avoid exposure to stressful life experiences or to develop special skills for coping with stress to forestall the progression of HIV illness. 
PAF-induced bowel necrosis. Effects of vasodilators. Ischemic bowel necrosis in the rat is produced by injecting platelet-activating factor (PAF) intravenously. Since intestinal hypoperfusion is observed after PAF injection, we hypothesize that mesenteric vasoconstriction is the mechanism of bowel injury. We thus studied the effects of vasodilators in this model. We found that: (1) Phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, ICI 198615 (leukotriene antagonist) and PGE1 counteracted the PAF-induced mesenteric flow reduction and ameliorated the bowel injury. However, phenoxybenzamine and prazosin were relatively ineffective in correcting PAF-induced hypotension, showing that bowel injury can be prevented independently of the hypotensive state. (2) Nitroglycerin failed to prevent bowel injury, although it improved the mesenteric blood flow. Thus, in opposition to our initial hypothesis, correction of the mesenteric flow reduction induced by PAF does not always prevent intestineal necrosis. (3) Only phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, ICI 198615, and PGE1 ameliorated PAF-induced hemoconcentration and bowel injury. This suggests a correlation between vascular injury (expressed by "leaky" vessels and the consequent hemoconcentration) and bowel necrosis. (4) Although both nitroglycerin and hydralazine relax smooth muscle, hydralazine seemed to aggravate bowel necrosis. The mechanism remains unclear. 
Familial aggregation and severity of epilepsy. Genetic models for complex diseases frequently assume that genetic factors play a greater role in severe forms than in mild forms of disease. This study examined familial aggregation of epilepsy in relation to two measures of severity: duration and remission. The study population comprised 358 offspring born in Rochester, MN, U.S.A., to parents with epilepsy who were diagnosed in Rochester between 1935 and 1979 and followed for greater than or equal to 5 years after the first seizure. Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to examine the effects of duration of the parent's epilepsy (less than 5 vs. greater than or equal to 5 years) and remission of the parent's epilepsy (greater than or equal to 5 years seizure-free) on risk of unprovoked seizures in offspring. The univariate rate ratio (RR) for parent's duration (long vs. short) was 1.1 (95% confidence interval 0.32-3.57). The RR for parent's remission was 2.5 (0.55-11.41), reflecting a higher risk for offspring of remitting parents, which was not statistically significant. Multivariate analysis was used to control for three other parental attributes associated with offspring seizure risk: sex, age at onset of seizures (less than 20 vs. greater than or equal to 20 years), and seizure type (absence vs. other). The RR for duration was not substantially changed in this analysis (1.2; 0.37-4.16). However, the RR for remission dropped to 1.2 (0.25-5.97), suggesting that the higher risk in offspring of remitting parents was largely explained by confounding with other factors that influence offspring seizure risk. 
Fetal choroid plexus cysts in the second trimester of pregnancy: a cause for concern. Controversy surrounds the issue of recommending cytogenetic studies in second-trimester fetuses with fetal choroid plexus cysts. To assist in clarifying this issue, a prospective study was designed to describe the association between fetal choroid plexus cysts and aneuploidy in a large population. During a 3-year period 7350 women at 15 to 22 weeks' gestation underwent an ultrasonographic evaluation. Fetal choroid plexus cysts were diagnosed in 71 (0.96%) of these pregnancies. Sixty-two of the 71 patients elected to undergo amniocentesis. An abnormal karyotype was identified in four (6.4%) of these fetuses. One fetus had trisomy 21, and three fetuses were diagnosed with trisomy 18. These data indicate that it is reasonable to offer genetic counseling and cytogenetic studies in those patients identified as having a fetal choroid plexus cyst. 
Nutritional management of acute and chronic pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis often results in a catabolic state characterized by profound hemodynamic, metabolic, cardiovascular, pulmonary, hematologic, and renal aberrations. Parenteral nutrition and metabolic support are essential if morbidity and mortality are to be minimized. In chronic pancreatitis, nutritional management ranges from fundamental dietary manipulation with or without administration of appropriate digestive enzymes to enteral supplementation with modular chemically defined diets to total parenteral nutrition, depending on the stage, severity, and manifestations of the disease. In prescribing nutrient substrates in both acute and chronic pancreatitis, consideration must be given to their effects on pancreatic enzyme secretion if optimal results are to be achieved. 
Resting energy expenditure in patients with pancreatitis. OBJECTIVE: To assess the resting energy expenditure of hospitalized patients with pancreatitis. DESIGN: Prospective, case-referent study. SETTING: Nutrition support service in a university tertiary care hospital. PATIENTS: Patients referred to the Nutrition Support Service with the diagnosis of pancreatitis. Excluded from study entry included those with cancer, obesity (greater than 150% ideal body weight), those measured within 3 postoperative days, or patients requiring ventilator support with an FIO2 of greater than 0.5. Forty-eight patients with either acute pancreatitis (n = 13), chronic pancreatitis (n = 24), acute pancreatitis with sepsis (n = 7), or chronic pancreatitis with sepsis (n = 7) were studied. The two septic groups were combined into a single pancreatitis-with-sepsis group, since no significant differences among measured variables were observed between individual septic groups. INTERVENTIONS: None. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Resting energy expenditure was measured by indirect calorimetry and compared with the predicted energy expenditure, as determined by the Harris-Benedict equations. Resting energy expenditure (percent of predicted energy expenditure) was significantly (p less than .02) greater for patients with pancreatitis complicated by sepsis (120 +/- 11%) compared with the nonseptic chronic pancreatitis group (105 +/- 14%). Resting energy expenditure for the nonseptic acute pancreatitis patients (112 +/- 17%) was not significantly different from the other groups. The septic pancreatitis group had the largest percentage (82%) of hypermetabolic (resting energy expenditure greater than 110% of predicted energy expenditure) patients, whereas 61% and 33% of the acute and chronic pancreatitis groups were hypermetabolic, respectively (p less than .02). CONCLUSIONS: Resting energy expenditure is variable in patients with pancreatitis (77% to 139% of predicted energy expenditure). The Harris-Benedict equations are an unreliable estimate of caloric expenditure. Septic complications are associated with hypermetabolism and may be the most important factor influencing resting energy expenditure in pancreatitis patients. 
Plasma catecholamines in patients with presinusoidal portal hypertension: comparison with cirrhotic patients and nonportal hypertensive subjects. During a hemodynamic study, plasma catecholamine concentrations were measured in the pulmonary artery and in the hepatic vein in 18 presinusoidal portal hypertensive patients. Results were compared with those in 15 nonportal hypertensive subjects and in 24 cirrhotic patients in good condition (grade A, according to Pugh's classification). Plasma norepinephrine concentrations in the pulmonary artery or in the hepatic vein were not significantly different between nonportal hypertensive subjects (mean +/- S.E.M.: 271 +/- 36 and 83 +/- 11 pg/ml, respectively) and presinusoidal portal hypertensive patients (273 +/- 33 and 84 +/- 11 pg/ml, respectively). These concentrations were, however, elevated in cirrhotic patients (408 +/- 47 and 256 +/- 45 pg/ml, p less than 0.05 in comparison with the two other groups). These differences suggest that increased sympathetic nervous activity in cirrhosis is associated with the presence of liver disease or increase in sinusoidal pressure. Differences in plasma epinephrine concentrations were not significant among the three groups of patients. However, the existence of a significant correlation between pulmonary artery plasma epinephrine concentration and cardiac index (r2 = 0.46, p less than 0.01) in patients with presinusoidal portal hypertension suggests that the adrenal medulla could play a role in the pathophysiology of the hyperkinetic syndrome of these patients. 
Efficacy of fixed minidose warfarin prophylaxis in total hip replacement. OBJECTIVE--To determine whether a small fixed perioperative dose of warfarin would prevent deep vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. DESIGN--Prospective, randomised, double blind placebo controlled trial. SETTING--Winford Orthopaedic Hospital, Bristol. SUBJECTS--148 patients having primary total hip replacement. INTERVENTION--Warfarin 1 mg given daily for one week before and three weeks after surgery. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Deep vein thrombosis diagnosed by the iodine-125 labelled fibrinogen uptake method. RESULTS--Deep vein thrombosis occurred in 25 (34%) of the patients given warfarin and 19 (26%) of the controls (difference 8%; 95% confidence interval -6.8% to 22.8%). CONCLUSION--Fixed minidose warfarin does not prevent deep vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. 
Cisplatin, etoposide, and ifosfamide salvage therapy for refractory or relapsing germ cell carcinoma. Thirty patients with metastatic progressive germ cell carcinoma who failed to be cured with first-line cisplatin chemotherapy were treated with a salvage regimen consisting of cisplatin 20 mg/m2, etoposide 100 mg/m2, and ifosfamide 1.2 g/m2 (PEI) intravenously (IV), days 1 to 5 every 3 weeks. Ten patients (33%) were tumor-free at the end of therapy. Complete response (CR) was achieved with chemotherapy alone in four patients and with additional surgery in six patients (two necroses, two mature teratomas, two carcinomas). Six patients (20%) had normalization of tumor markers but unresectable residual disease (Rm-), and the remaining 14 patients (46%) failed to respond. Of 10 patients with CR, nine (90%) relapsed again (eight carcinomas, one mature teratoma). The median duration of CR was 3.5 months. The median survival of the whole group was 311 days (range, 110 to 996+). Currently, seven of 30 patients are alive, and five of them are without signs of progressive tumor. The response to prior cisplatin therapy predicted for response and survival after PEI salvage therapy. Of 14 patients with prior CR, eight (57%) achieved a second CR compared with one of 11 (9%) with prior unfavorable response (P = .039). The median survival for patients with prior favorable response was 400 days, compared with 251 days for patients with prior unfavorable response (P less than .001). Myelosuppression was dose-limiting, with leukopenia greater than grade 2 in 84% and thrombocytopenia greater than grade 2 in 51% of all cycles. This three-drug regimen can induce a second CR in one third of patients with relapsed or refractory germ cell carcinoma. Only those patients with prior favorable responses can expect to be cured by this salvage regimen, while patients with prior unfavorable response should be considered for alternative salvage approaches. 
Scrub and murine typhus in children with obscure fever in the tropics. Between October, 1985, and February, 1987, 28 (8.7%) cases of scrub and murine typhus were diagnosed among 320 children with greater than or equal to 1 week history of obscure fever. Scrub typhus is a rural disease and characterized by fever, tachypnea and hepatosplenomegaly. Skin rash was rare and eschar was absent. Four patients had pneumonia and two had meningitis. Murine typhus, more an urban disease, was milder and half the patients presented exclusively because of night fever. Slightly enlarged liver and skin rash were the only significant physical signs. Lacking the classical textbook presentations, both rickettsioses often were missed or diagnosed as enteric fever. Recognition is important because patients with either disease respond well to treatment with chloramphenicol or doxycycline. 
Spectrum of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompetent patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is a well-recognized complication in immunocompromised patients, especially those with neutropenia. We report four cases of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients whose main underlying disease was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Two patients had an acute fatal course, one had chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis ending in an acute fatal course, and the other had a semiacute disease that responded to amphotericin B. Autopsy on three patients showed invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in both lungs, and tissue invasion was documented by transbronchial biopsy in the patient who survived. Retrospective review of all cultures that grew Aspergillus species from bronchoscopic specimens showed no false-positive results, and this procedure proved to be the most useful maneuver in making the diagnosis. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis should be in the differential diagnosis in patients with COPD and unexplained pulmonary infiltrates. 
The possibility of diagnosing small pancreatic cancer (less than 4.0 cm) by measuring various serum tumor markers. A retrospective study. Comparative studies measuring various tumor markers such as SPan-1, CA 19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), DUPAN-2, and elastase I were done in 74 patients with small pancreatic cancer including 23 cases of T1 pancreatic cancer (tumor size less than 2.0 cm) and 51 cases of T2 pancreatic cancer (tumor size between 2.1 to 4.0 cm), retrospectively. Although the mean value of these tumor markers in T1 and T2 pancreatic cancer were higher than those of the control cutoff levels, their sensitivities were different. In T1 pancreatic cancer, 13 of 23 cases (56.5%) of SPan-1 and 14 of 23 cases of (60.7%) of CA 19-9 had levels above normal. Although the numbers of patients were small, sensitivities of CEA, DUPAN-2, and elastase I were 30.8%, 22.2%, and 28.6%, respectively. In T2 pancreatic cancer, 41 of 51 cases (80.4%) of SPan-1 and 40 of 51 cases (78.4%) of CA 19-9 showed higher levels than normal, but only 46.9% of CEA, 40.0% of DUPAN-2, and 52.6% of elastase I were positive. The overall sensitivities in small pancreatic cancer (less than 4.0 cm) were 73% for SPan-1 and CA 19-9 but were less for CEA, DUPAN-2, and elastase I. These results indicate that even small pancreatic cancers release detectable pancreatic cancer-associated antigens in serum in more than 70% of cases, especially SPan-1 and CA 19-9. The measurement of these two tumor markers makes it possible to detect small pancreatic cancers after using imaging diagnostic procedures. 
Paracentesis with intravenous infusion of albumin as compared with peritoneovenous shunting in cirrhosis with refractory ascites. BACKGROUND. There is no satisfactory treatment for refractory ascites in patients with cirrhosis. Both peritoneovenous shunts and paracentesis have been used, but there is uncertainty about their relative merits. METHODS. We studied 89 patients with cirrhosis and refractory ascites who were randomly assigned to receive either repeated large-volume paracentesis plus intravenous albumin or a LeVeen peritoneovenous shunt. Patients in the paracentesis group in whom recurrent tense ascites developed during follow-up were treated with paracentesis, and those in the peritoneovenous-shunt group with diuretic agents or by the insertion of a new shunt if there was shunt obstruction. RESULTS. During the first hospitalization, ascites was removed in all 41 patients in the paracentesis group and in 44 of the 48 patients in the peritoneovenous-shunt group. The mean (+/- SD) duration of hospitalization in the two groups was 11 +/- 5 and 19 +/- 9 days, respectively (P less than 0.01). There were no significant differences in the number of patients who had complications or died. During follow-up, 37 patients in each group were hospitalized again. In the paracentesis group, the number of rehospitalizations for any reason (174 vs. 97 in the peritoneovenous-shunt group) or for ascites (125 vs. 38) was significantly higher, and the median time to a first readmission for any reason (1 +/- 1 vs. 2 +/- 2 months) or for ascites (2 +/- 2 vs. 8 +/- 17 months) was significantly shorter than in the peritoneovenous-shunt group. The total times in the hospital during follow-up, however, were similar in the two groups (48 +/- 49 and 44 +/- 39 days, respectively). Three patients had obstructions of their peritoneovenous shunts during their first hospitalizations, and 15 patients had a total of 20 obstructions during follow-up. Survival was similar in both groups. CONCLUSIONS. The LeVeen shunt and paracentesis are equally effective in relieving refractory ascites. The former may provide better long-term control of ascites, but shunt occlusion is common and survival is not improved. 
Percutaneous placement of Hickman catheters: comparison of sonographically guided and blind techniques. We studied the value of sonographically guided puncture of the subclavian vein for placement of indwelling right atrial and permanent subcutaneously tunneled catheters (Hickman) for long-term venous access. The commonly used blind puncture is associated with complications such as pneumothorax, arterial puncture, and hemothorax. The results and complications of 40 sonographically guided punctures and fluoroscopically controlled catheterizations of the subclavian vein (group 1, 31 patients) performed in the radiology department were compared with those of 40 blind percutaneous punctures and fluoroscopically controlled catheterizations (group 2, 29 patients) performed in the operating room. The patients were selected consecutively. The groups were comparable in age, sex, and indication for catheter placement; administration of chemotherapy for hematologic malignancies was the major indication (group 1, 84%; group 2, 83%). All punctures in group 1 were successful; group 2 had two failures (5%). Puncture-related complications occurred significantly more in group 2 (10%) than in group 1 (0%) (p less than .05). These complications were pneumothorax in three cases and hemothorax in one. Complications not related to the puncture technique were prolonged bleeding at the entrance site (groups 1 and 2, two cases each), local infection (group 1, one case), thrombosis (group 1, three cases; group 2, two), catheter sepsis (group 1, 10 cases; group 2, 14), catheter occlusion (group 2, three cases), and catheter migration (groups 1 and 2, two cases each). We conclude that sonographically guided puncture increases the success rate and significantly decreases the puncture-related complications of percutaneous placement of Hickman catheters. 
Effect of incisional biopsy on subsequent histology of melanocytic naevi. We examined the effect of incisional biopsy on the subsequent histology of 15 benign melanocytic naevi. In all cases the histology of the residual lesion within the second specimen was unchanged apart from the presence of a surgical scar, and in general the definitive excision specimen showed a reduction in melanocytes at the dermo-epidermal junction overlying the scar. In no case were there any features suggestive of melanoma. 
A double-blind crossover study of the effect of concomitant diuretic therapy in hypertensive patients treated with amlodipine. Twelve patients with essential hypertension who were already on treatment with the long-acting calcium antagonist amlodipine (5 mg once daily) were entered into a double-blind, randomized crossover study of the addition of one month's treatment with either bendrofluazide (5 mg once daily) or matching placebo. The addition of bendrofluazide did not cause any statistically significant fall in the supine blood pressure compared to treatment with placebo (147.6/90.1 +/- 4.8/2.8 v 150.8/92.6 +/- 4.3/2.3 mm Hg, respectively). Plasma potassium was significantly lower on bendrofluazide as compared to placebo (3.11 +/- 0.14 v 3.62v +/- 0.13 mmol/L, P less than .001) and 10 of 12 patients had a fall in plasma potassium while on diuretic. The results of this study suggest that a thiazide diuretic has little additive effect on blood pressure in patients already on the long-acting dihydropyridine amlodipine, and may cause hypokalemia. 
Acute otitis media in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children. To evaluate the occurrence and outcome of acute otitis media (AOM) in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected children, a prospective comparative cohort study was performed. Twenty-seven HIV-infected children were individually matched with paired control subjects and followed up for 543 months (mean 19.4 +/- 11). Data collected were evaluated considering HIV-infected children both as a whole and as P1 and P2 patients according to Centers for Disease Control classification. During the observation period, 46 episodes of AOM were diagnosed in 15 HIV patients and 22 in 16 control children: 11 P1 had 27 AOM episodes vs 17 in 13 control children; 6 P2 had 19 AOM episodes vs 5 in 4 control children. Human immunodeficiency virus infection does not seem to modify the occurrence of AOM. Recurrent AOM (3 or more episodes in 6 months) was, however, significantly more common in P2 children. Amoxicillin, to which the bacteria isolated in P2 children were sensitive in vitro, cured 33 of 46 episodes in HIV-infected children compared with 20 of 22 in control children. Cure rate was similar in P1 children compared with control children but was significantly lower in P2 versus control children (47.3% vs 100%). Reasons for higher occurrence of failures in P2 children remain to be investigated. 
Angioscopic coronary macromorphology in patients with acute coronary disorders. To investigate the pathogenesis of acute coronary disorders and to clarify what type of plaque precedes these disorders, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioscopy, by means of a new angioscope, was carried out during catheterisation in 100 consecutive patients anatomically suitable for such investigations. The quality of the angioscopic image was good enough for analysis in 84 patients (14 with acute myocardial infarction [within 8 h of onset], 16 with recent myocardial infarction [3 days-2 months since onset], 24 with old myocardial infarctions, 10 with unstable angina, and 20 with stable angina). Thrombi were observed in most patients with acute coronary disorders (all 14 with acute myocardial infarction, 9 of 10 with unstable angina). Occlusive thrombi were more common in patients with acute myocardial infarction than in those with unstable angina (11 [79%] vs 1 [10%]; p less than 0.001), whereas mural (non-occlusive) thrombi were more common in the unstable angina than in the acute myocardial infarction group (8 [80%] vs 3 [21%]; p less than 0.001). Xanthomatous ulcerated plaques or ragged irregular surfaces were seen in patients with acute coronary disorders and in those with recent myocardial infarction. Xanthomatous plaques were more common in patients with acute coronary disorders (50%) than in those with stable angina (15%) or old myocardial infarction (8%). By contrast white and smooth plaques were seen in cases of stable angina and old myocardial infarction. Angioscopy could display the intracoronary lumen more precisely than could coronary arteriography. This angioscopic study suggested that, although a thrombus overlying a rupture in the lining of the plaque was common in both unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction, the character of the thrombus may differ between these disorders, and lipid-rich xanthomatous plaque may precede rupture. 
Cholecystectomy as a risk factor for colorectal adenomatous polyps and carcinoma. Multiple studies have suggested a possible relationship between prior cholecystectomy and the occurrence of subsequent colorectal carcinoma. This relationship has been particularly noticed among female patients and for right-sided lesions of the colon. In the current study, the authors undertook a case-control study among patients who underwent colonoscopy in three private practices in New York City between April 1986 and March 1988. Over this period, 302 adenomatous polyp cases, 106 colon cancer cases, and 507 controls were interviewed regarding their prior history of cholecystectomy. Overall, no significant association was observed between cholecystectomy and either colorectal adenomatous polyps or cancer. Cholecystectomy does not appear to be a significant risk factor for colorectal neoplasia. 
In vitro selection of a cell line for resistance to lysis by tumor necrosis factor-alpha selects for reduced tumorigenicity. Experimentally, TNF-alpha can mediate the hemorrhagic necrosis of certain tumors. Furthermore, evidence indicates that natural cytotoxic (NC) activity, a cell-mediated cytolytic activity that utilizes TNF-alpha in the lysis of target cells, is involved in preventing the outgrowth of certain NC/TNF-alpha-sensitive tumor cells. These observations raise the issue of whether soluble TNF-alpha normally serves as a tumor surveillance mechanism preventing the outgrowth of some tumors. To address this issue, we have used TNF-alpha to select TNF-alpha-resistant variants from the NC/TNF-alpha-sensitive mouse fibroblast cell line 10ME. Previously, we have demonstrated that 10ME is tumorigenic in immune-deficient mice but fails to form tumors in normal mice. Moreover, selection of NC-resistant variants from 10ME selects for both TNF-alpha resistance and tumorigenicity in normal mice. As cells that have been selected for NC resistance form tumors in normal mice, whereas the NC-sensitive parental cell line does not, it seems that escape from NC activity is sufficient to significantly increase the tumorigenic potential of the cell line. We show that the selection with TNF-alpha, although associated with NC resistance, does not increase the tumorigenic potential of 10ME cells but reduces it. Thus, NC activity appears to function as a mechanism to prevent tumor formation, and escape from NC activity allows for tumor formation; TNF-alpha does not have similar activity. Moreover, this suggests that NC activity is not equivalent to soluble TNF-alpha activity, but utilizes TNF-alpha more efficiently than soluble TNF-alpha, or NC activity involves both TNF-alpha and other effector mechanisms. 
Autoimmune enteropathy and nephropathy with circulating anti-epithelial cell antibodies. We describe a child with circulating anti-epithelial cell antibodies, autoimmune enteropathy with intestinal villous atrophy, and membranous glomerulonephritis. The patient had persistent diarrhea at 6 months of age, and a small bowel biopsy showed active enteritis, villous atrophy, and crypt hyperplasia. When the patient was, 10 months of age, nephrotic syndrome developed because of membranous glomerulonephritis. Results of tests for circulating immune complexes were negative. Indirect immunofluorescence studies revealed a circulating antibody directed against renal epithelial cells. Circulating antibodies directed against normal small intestine epithelial cells were also detected by the immunoperoxidase technique. Western blot and immunoprecipitation identified a 55-kd antigen, in both small bowel and kidney, that reacted with an antibody in the patient's serum. High-dose prednisone therapy induced a clinical remission, resolution of the small bowel injury, and diminished serum anti-epithelial cell antibodies; after dose reduction, clinical relapse occurred with villous atrophy and reappearance of anti-epithelial cell antibodies. When the patient was 45 months of age, persistent diarrhea recurred despite intravenous administration of corticosteroids, cyclosporine, and total parenteral nutrition. Autoantibodies to a 55-kd epithelial cell protein are temporally related to the development of enteropathy and nephropathy. Study of similar patients is needed to determine the role of such antibodies in this disorder. 
A significant association of Ha-ras p21 in neuroblastoma cells with patient prognosis. A retrospective study of 103 cases. To evaluate biologic characteristics of neuroblastoma, the authors examined the expression of Ha-ras gene (Ha-ras p21) in 103 primary tumors obtained at the time of diagnosis. Higher expression of the Ha-ras p21 in tumor cells showed a significant association with lower clinical stage of the tumor at diagnosis (chi-square = 35.418, degrees of freedom [df] = 9, P less than 0.001) and survival of the patients (chi-square = 37.111, df = 3, P less than 0.001). Thirty-six (84%) of 43 patients with decreased Ha-ras p21 expression died of aggressive disease. The Ha-ras DNA was examined in the 32 tumors by Southern blot analysis. Neither augmentation nor deletion of the Ha-ras DNA was observed. Amplification of the N-myc DNA was also examined in 43 cases in comparison with Ha-ras p21 expression. N-myc amplification was detected in 12 (55%) of 22 patients who died, and 19 (86%) of the 22 patients showed a low expression of the Ha-ras p21 in tumor cells. Eighteen (86%) of 21 survivors showed a high expression of the Ha-ras p21. The expression of Ha-ras p21 was thought to be a clinically important marker for prognosis in children with neuroblastoma. 
The efficacy and tolerability of CV 205-502 (a nonergot dopaminergic drug) in macroprolactinoma patients and in prolactinoma patients intolerant to bromocriptine. We studied the effect of CV 205-502 in 12 patients with macroprolactinomas and 8 patients with PRL-secreting tumors, who were selected because of previous repeatedly shown intolerance to bromocriptine in even small doses. We also investigated serum insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) levels before and during CV 205-502 therapy. In 12 macroprolactinoma patients followed for 1 yr, 0.075-0.450 mg CV 205-502 lowered PRL levels by 91.2 +/- 5.4%. Only 3 of the patients had transient side-effects of nausea, dizziness, or fatigue. In eight patients with PRL-secreting tumors who were bromocriptine intolerant, CV 205-502 (0.075-0.300 mg daily) lowered PRL levels by 80.2 +/- 6.3%. Four of these patients showed transient side-effects (nausea, fatigue, and/or tachycardia). None of the patients discontinued therapy. There was a close correlation between pretreatment circulating PRL levels and tumor size, expressed in cubic millimeters. The decrease in pituitary tumor size after 52 weeks of CV 205-502 therapy (-74 +/- 6%) was also correlated with the decrease in PRL levels (P less than 0.01). In four patients with hypopituitarism, lowered IGF-I levels did not change during CV 205-502 therapy. However, in seven previously untreated patients with macroprolactinoma and normal CV 205-502 is a potent dopaminergic drug, which effectively controls PRL secretion and induces tumor shrinkage. At the doses used in our study, it causes only mild and transient side-effects in a minority of patients and can also be used to treat hyperprolactinemic patients who have shown intolerance to bromocriptine therapy. 
Chronic diffuse infiltrative lung disease: comparison of diagnostic accuracy of high-resolution and conventional CT. We compared the accuracies of high-resolution CT (HRCT) and conventional CT in determining the specific diagnoses in 75 consecutive patients with chronic diffuse infiltrative lung disease. Without knowledge of clinical or pathologic data, two reviewers independently assessed three separate sets of CT scans in random order: three HRCT scans, three 10-mm collimation CT scans obtained at the same levels as the HRCT scans, and a complete conventional CT scan. The HRCT scans were obtained at the level of the aortic arch, tracheal carina, and 1 cm above the right hemidiaphragm by using 1.5-mm collimation and a high spatial resolution algorithm. Observers gave the most likely diagnosis along with their degree of diagnostic confidence. The correct diagnosis, irrespective of confidence level, was reached with 71% of the HRCT scans and with 72% of both the corresponding 10-mm and complete conventional CT scans. Confidence level 1 (definite) was reached with 49% of HRCT scans, 31% of corresponding 10-mm scans, and 43% of complete conventional CT examinations; the correct diagnosis was made in 92%, 96%, and 94% of those examinations, respectively. In none of the patients were findings on the limited HRCT scan normal when findings on the conventional CT scan were abnormal. We conclude that in most patients with chronic infiltrative lung disease a specific diagnosis can be made by obtaining a limited number of HRCT scans. 
Stereotactic craniotomy in the resection of small arteriovenous malformations. Surgical resection of 10 obscure arteriovenous malformations (AVM's) was accomplished with craniotomy guided by computerized tomography (CT) or angiography and the use of the Brown-Roberts-Wells stereotactic frame. Stereotactic craniotomy was invaluable for resection of the following types of AVM's: 1) AVM's with a nidus less than 2 cm in diameter, 2) AVM's located in an eloquent area of the brain, and 3) AVM's located deep in the brain. Stereotactic localization of these AVM's on preoperative radiological studies provides a precise route to the nidus, often avoiding important areas of the brain. This series included six male and four female patients with a mean age of 32 years. All patients presented with an intracerebral hemorrhage, from which eight made a complete neurological recovery prior to surgery. Two AVM's were located on the cortex, three were found subcortically, and five were situated near the ventricles or in the deep white matter. As a guide, angiography was used in six cases and CT in four cases. In each instance, the study providing the best image of the AVM nidus was employed. Postoperatively, no neurological deficits were found in eight patients and, in the two patients with preoperative deficits, neurological improvement was observed after recovery from surgery. Postoperative studies revealed complete removal of the AVM in all patients, and all lesions were confirmed histologically. The authors conclude that stereotactic craniotomy provides the optimum operative approach for the localization and microsurgical resection of AVM's that are either obscure or located deep in the brain. 
Abnormal esophageal motility. An analysis of concurrent radiographic and manometric findings. The findings of concurrent esophageal videofluoroscopy and manometry in 15 patients with major disturbances of esophageal motor function were evaluated and the data were analyzed from a fluid mechanical perspective. Each of 153 fluoroscopic barium swallow sequences was analyzed on a swallow-by-swallow basis. Two distinct pressure domains were identified: intrabolus pressure and pressure within a bolus-free contracting esophageal segment. Analyses in terms of these pressure domains showed specific and consistent correlations between the radiographic and manometric findings. Radiography was insensitive to contractions occurring in esophageal segments devoid of bolus fluid, whereas manometry was insensitive to contractions that did not occlude the lumen. It is concluded that using fluid mechanical principles of bolus transport allows meaningful comparison of esophageal motility as recorded by radiography and intraluminal manometry. However, the inherent limitations in the range of physical phenomena recorded by each modality make these techniques complementary for evaluating esophageal motor function. 
Doppler estimation of changes in pulmonary artery pressure during hypoxic breathing. To assess the use of Doppler echocardiographic screening for abnormal pulmonary vasoreactivity, we measured pulmonary artery pressure in 10 adult patients and 11 normal subjects while recording Doppler right ventricular outflow acceleration time, pre-ejection period, and ejection time. In the normal subjects we also measured the changes in each parameter after 10 minutes of hypoxic breathing (FIO2 = 0.12). Mean pulmonary artery pressure increased by 39% during hypoxia (13 +/- 4.3 to 18 +/- 5.4 mm Hg). In the patients and normal subjects at rest, mean pulmonary artery-pressure correlated well with acceleration time (r = -0.84; standard error of the estimate, 6.6 mm Hg; p = 0.0001). Over the narrow range of mean pulmonary artery pressure in normal subjects at rest, mean pulmonary artery pressure did not correlate well with acceleration time, acceleration time/pre-ejection period, or acceleration time/right ventricular ejection time. However, changes in mean pulmonary artery pressure induced by hypoxic breathing did correlate with changes in acceleration time/right ventricular ejection time (r = 0.73; standard error of the estimate, 2.3 mm Hg; p = 0.01). Doppler ultrasound may offer a noninvasive means for detecting abnormal pulmonary vasoreactivity in asymptomatic individuals at risk for developing pulmonary hypertension. 
Laparoscopic trancystic choledocholithotomy as an adjunct to laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is rapidly becoming the standard operation for symptomatic cholelithiasis. Initially, common duct stones presented a barrier to this treatment modality and are said to be unsuspected in 5-9 per cent of patients. A technique is described that removes common bile duct stones through the cystic duct with a flexible nephroureteroscope, thereby extending the range of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma. A worldwide problem and the major risk factors. Male sex, age, cirrhosis, and HBsAg are the major risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The geographic distribution of HCC is highly uneven, such that three distinct incidence areas are recognized. To clarify the reason(s) for this geographic variability of HCC, the risk factors in each incidence area were assessed. In parallel with the geographic distribution of HCC, HBsAg prevalence was highest in both HCC patients and in general population in Africa and Asia, where mothers of HCC patients are frequently HBsAg-positive, suggesting that hepatitis B virus hyperendemicity and perinatal infection account for the high HCC incidence in these areas. Cirrhosis, which is found on autopsy in 80% of the cases of HCC patients worldwide, is the most prevalent risk factor for HCC in areas where hepatitis B virus infection is less common. However, HBsAg carriage adds to the HCC risk carried by cirrhosis and explains the higher incidence of HCC in cirrhotics from Africa and Asia as well as elsewhere. Available data suggest that chronic HCV infection is a risk factor for cirrhosis and HCC. HBV vaccination should decrease HCC incidence rates worldwide; however, HCC prevention in regions where HBsAg carriage is infrequent may also require prevention of the other causes of cirrhosis in order for HCC rates to decline. 
Linkage analysis of juvenile parkinsonism to tyrosine hydroxylase gene locus on chromosome 11. We performed linkage analyses of juvenile parkinsonism with autosomal recessive inheritance (AR-JP) to chromosome 11p15.5 locus including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), Harvey-ras-1 (HRAS), and insulin (INS) genes by analyzing genomic DNA from 28 members of seven Japanese AR-JP families containing 10 affected individuals. We used the methods of pairwise linkage analysis (LIPED) and multipoint linkage analysis (LINKAGE) for genetic linkage to the chromosome 11p15.5 markers and detected recombination events between AR-JP locus and TH gene. Multipoint linkage analysis excluded the linkage in the interval between TH and HRAS, as well as 11 cMo distal to TH and 8.5 cMo distal to HRAS, a total of approximately 23 cMo on chromosome 11p. 
Usefulness of leg-crossing for maintaining blood pressure in a sitting position in patients with orthostatic hypotension--case reports. The authors report a case with idiopathic orthostatic hypotension in which the patient prevents his blood pressure from falling to a symptomatic level by leg-crossing in a sitting position. Including 4 other patients with orthostatic hypotension and 5 normal subjects, their study found that the changes in blood pressure with leg-crossing inversely correlated with those induced by assuming seated posture from a supine position. Leg-crossing may, therefore, be one of the useful nonpharmacologic measures for maintaining blood pressure in a sitting position in patients with orthostatic hypotension. 
Intratumoral T lymphocytes from small cleaved follicular center cell lymphomas show unrestricted T-cell receptor alpha-chain variable region gene usage. The relationship between the reactive T cells and neoplastic B cells of follicular center cell lymphomas is unclear. It is not known whether the T cells are recruited nonspecifically by the neoplastic B cells or are responding through the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR), to tumor-related antigen(s). This question was addressed by polymerase chain reaction analysis of TCR alpha chain variable (V) region gene expression in intratumoral T lymphocytes from three cases of small cleaved follicular center cell lymphoma. In all three cases studied, the tumor-associated T cells showed unrestricted expression of all 18 alpha-chain V region genes. These findings imply that the T cells admixed with the neoplastic B cells of small cleaved follicular center cell lymphomas are not recruited based on TCR recognition of a single or limited number of tumor-related antigens. 
Mechanisms and management of stroke in the elderly. OBJECTIVE: To highlight the mechanisms, common causes and management of stroke in the elderly. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE was searched for articles published from 1967 to 1990. The following key words were used: "stroke," "cerebrovascular disease," "elderly," "aging," "hypertension," "drug interactions," "etiology," "evaluation," "management" and "recovery of function." Original articles with large series of patients were reviewed in detail. STUDY SELECTION: Of about 750 original articles reviewed 116 were finally selected for detailed analysis. Those that dealt with cause, pathophysiologic features and management of stroke with emphasis on the elderly were chosen. DATA SYNTHESIS: With increasing age the incidence of stroke increases, cardiovascular reserve decreases, catecholamine responsiveness diminishes and cardiac arrhythmias become more common. Blood pressure, especially systolic, rises, and the benefits of its treatment become both more difficult to assess and less certain. In the elderly population embolic stroke, particularly that due to nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, is seen with increasing frequency. Because of postural hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias and overmedication, watershed infarction occurs more frequently with increasing age. Amyloid angiopathy now represents the most common cause of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. CONCLUSIONS: Because of the altered drug metabolism and pharmacodynamics in the elderly the therapeutic armamentarium is growing, and so are the risks of such treatments. Stroke in the elderly poses unique problems that deserve distinctive solutions. Further research is needed to study the effect of cerebral ischemia to understand better how the older brain handles the stress of the ischemic insult. 
Gastro-oesophageal reflux in mechanically ventilated preterm infants. Long duration oesophageal pH recordings were performed on 42 mechanically ventilated and parenterally fed preterm infants for a mean (SD) of 94 (28) hours. Their mean (SD) gestational age was 31.5 (2.6) weeks and birth weight 1514 (448) g. Their mean postnatal age was 19 (10) hours at the onset of pH recording, which was performed with the babies supine. The mean hourly values for the total number of episodes of gastro-oesophageal reflux (GOR) was 2.3 (2.7), for acid GOR 1.2 (1.4), and for acid GOR longer than 5 minutes 0.08 (0.09). The time the pH was greater than 4 (the reflux index) was 3.5 (3.3)% and the mean airway pressure was 6.6 (5.1) cm H2O. Fifteen infants had a reflux index above 5%. GOR patterns were not significantly correlated to birth weight, gestational age, postconceptional age, ventilatory patterns, and duration of mechanical ventilation. We concluded that the reproducibility of the reflux index was low because the median of the absolute differences was 1% when two consecutive 12 hour periods were compared and reached 2.5% when the two periods were separated by 96 hours. A second 24 hour pH recording was performed in 30 of the 42 patients after weaning from the ventilator and at a time when patients were asymptomatic and enterally fed. Compared with the late postprandial period of the second pH recording, the first recording showed an increase in the number of episodes of GOR and a decrease in reflux index, without any difference in the number of episodes of acid GOR. 
A critical threshold of exercise capacity in the ventilatory response to exercise in heart failure. During exercise patients with chronic left heart failure ventilate more than normal individuals at the same workload; the ratio of minute ventilation to minute production of carbon dioxide (VE/VCO2) is increased. The relation between increased VE/VCO2, severity of heart failure, and exercise capacity has not been defined. VE/VCO2 was measured in 47 patients with chronic left heart failure (New York Heart Association grades II and III) and in 1009 healthy controls. Exercise capacity was assessed by peak oxygen consumption (VO2max) during progressive exercise. In the controls VO2max ranged from 25 to 93 ml/kg/min; VE/VCO2 was 17-36 and did not correlate with VO2max. In chronic left heart failure the VO2max ranged from 9 to 29 ml/kg/min; VE/VCO2 was 22-42 and correlated strongly with VO2max. End tidal carbon dioxide and respiratory rate at peak exercise were similar in the controls and patients with chronic left heart failure. The increase in VE/VCO2 on exercise in chronic left heart failure indicates increased physiological dead space, presumably caused by a ventilation-perfusion mismatch. In the controls and patients with chronic left heart failure the relation of VE/VCO2 to VO2max was curvilinear with a threshold of VO2max below which VE/VCO2 started to rise above the normal range. This point of inflection may be explained by the existence of a critical level of cardiac function necessary to perfuse adequately all lung zones on exercise. 
Transsphenoidal management of Rathke's cleft cysts. A clinicopathological review of 10 cases. We report detailed data on 10 patients who underwent transsphenoidal microsurgical management of histopathologically confirmed Rathke's cleft cysts. Preoperatively, pituitary dysfunction was present in 90%, headaches in 80%, hyperprolactinemia in 70%, and visual interference in 40%. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging had 90% and 100% sensitivity, respectively, in disclosing the lesion. The mean follow-up duration was 22 months. There was no mortality. The only morbidity was sustained diabetes insipidus in one case. Resolution or improvement in preoperative dysfunction occurred in the majority of patients: headaches in 100%, visual deficits in 75%, normalization of hyperprolactinemia in 83%, and reversal of panhypopituitarism in 33%. We conclude that Rathke's cleft cysts can be managed safely and effectively with transsphenoidal drainage and partial excision of the wall. 
Correlation of technetium-99m-DISIDA hepatobiliary studies with biopsies in liver transplant patients. We compared 76 99mTc-DISIDA hepatobiliary studies with corresponding liver biopsies in 36 liver transplant patients to determine the histopathologic abnormalities that corresponded to scintigraphic abnormalities in uptake and excretion. Uptake was judged normal if the cardiac blood pool was barely visible or invisible on the ten minute image. Excretion was judged normal if images subsequent to the 15-min image showed a subjectively normal rate of decreasing parenchymal intensity. Biopsies were graded subjectively for hepatocyte damage and for findings of cholestasis. Uptake criteria were successful in differentiating high from low hepatocyte damage scores (p less than 0.0001), and excretion criteria were successful in differentiating high from low cholestasis scores (p = 0.002), while uptake criteria were not capable of differentiating high from low cholestasis scores, nor were excretion criteria capable of differentiating high from low hepatocyte damage scores (p's greater than 0.05). These results suggest that scintigraphy can distinguish intrahepatic cholestasis from pure hepatocyte damage. 
Psychologic factors associated with peptic ulcer disease. Peptic ulcer disease provides an excellent model for the study of mind-body interactions in the pathogenesis and course of an illness. Early psychodynamic explanations of the role of personality factors in the evolution of peptic ulcer disease have been supplemented in recent years by more scientifically based studies on the role of stress and coping ability. Multiple psychosocial variables have confounded the outcome of many of these studies. Yet, a clear need and guidelines exist for the comprehensive medical and psychosocial evaluation and treatment of patients with peptic ulcer disease. Concomitant psychiatric assessment and management, including psychotherapeutic and psychopharmacologic approaches, for those patients with refractory symptoms or ongoing psychiatric symptoms carried out in close collaboration with primary caregivers will significantly decrease overall morbidity and mortality. 
The preferential antagonism of pentylenetetrazole proconflict responses differentiates a class of anxiolytic benzodiazepines with potential antipanic action. With the use of the shock-induced suppression of water drinking in thirsty rats (Vogel's conflict paradigm) and the pentylenetetrazole-enhanced shock-induced suppression of drinking (proconflict paradigm) as animal models to test anxiolytic and antipanic agents, it was possible to distinguish two major classes of benzodiazepines (BZDs) and congeners on the basis of their antiproconflict index (ratio of anticonflict/antiproconflict potencies). Thus, typical low potency BZDs and congeners (diazepam, midazolam, zolpidem, alpidem) with anxiolytic/hypnotic properties have a low antiproconflict index (close to 1), whereas typical high potency BZDs (clonazepam, alprazolam, bretazenil) with reported antipanic properties have an antiproconflict index approximately 10-fold higher. The anticonflict and antiproconflict actions of BZDs with low or high antiproconflict indices are blocked by flumazenil but are potentiated differentially by the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) reuptake blocker 1-2-[bis(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]-methoxyethyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-3- pyridine-carboxylic acid. Protracted administration of antianxiety and antipanic antidepressant drugs that do not act on GABAA receptors, directly, resulted in anticonflict and antiproconflict effects. However, the efficacy of these drugs is clearly inferior (20-30%) to that of BZDs. These data suggest that specific GABAA receptor subtypes mediate the pharmacological action of BZDs possessing low and high antiproconflict indices. 
Early loss of astrocytes in herpes simplex virus-induced central nervous system demyelination. Immunohistochemistry was used to study herpes simplex virus type 1-induced central nervous system demyelination in the trigeminal root entry zone of mice inoculated with herpes simplex virus type 1 by the corneal route. There was no change in peripheral nervous system myelin as shown by immunostaining for Po glycoprotein. Double immunoperoxidase staining for herpes simplex virus type 1 antigens and glial fibrillary acidic protein showed that most of the infected cells were astrocytes. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining was completely lost in the inferior medial portion of the trigeminal root entry zone at 6 days after herpes simplex virus type 1 inoculation, a time when central nervous system myelin was preserved as indicated by immunostaining for myelin basic protein. The pattern of glial fibrillary acidic protein staining did not change and herpes simplex virus type 1 antigens were no longer detected after day 8. There was a progressive loss of myelin basic protein staining within the area unstained by glial fibrillary acidic protein antisera on days 8 to 14. This pattern of astrocyte loss before central nervous system demyelination is strikingly different from the reactive astrocytosis seen in other demyelinating lesions, such as acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or acute multiple sclerosis. Herpes simplex virus type 1 infection in mice provides an unusual model of acute central nervous system demyelination preceded by a loss of astrocytes. 
Cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity during delayed vasospasm in a canine model of subarachnoid hemorrhage. While the in vitro reactivity of cerebral conducting vessels following subarachnoid hemorrhage has been extensively studied, in vivo cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity has not been systematically investigated. We tested the hypothesis that, in the canine model of subarachnoid hemorrhage, the rise in cerebral blood flow normally seen with hypercapnia is blunted during delayed vasospasm. Four groups of animals were studied: one received two 4-ml subarachnoid injections of nonheparinized arterial blood into the cisterna magna (n = 8), one received three subarachnoid injections of 5 ml blood (n = 5), one received two subarachnoid injections of 4 ml saline (n = 5), and a control group (n = 5) had no subarachnoid injections or angiography. Basilar artery diameter was measured from baseline and follow-up angiography. We determined CO2 reactivity by randomly varying the concentration of inspired CO2 and measuring regional cerebral blood flow with radiolabeled microspheres. Basilar artery diameter was not affected by saline injection and was reduced by 26 +/- 2.9% in the two-hemorrhage group and 55 +/- 1.9% in the three-hemorrhage group. Baseline cerebral blood flow and CO2 reactivity were similar in all four groups. We conclude that, in this model of delayed vasospasm, regional cerebral vascular CO2 reactivity is intact and extrapolation of in vitro data regarding basilar artery diameter and reactivity to cerebral blood flow must be done cautiously. 
ABO blood groups and the risk of diarrhea due to enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli. To determine whether blood group O persons are at higher risk for enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) diarrhea, a case-control study was done for 17 months among rural Bangladeshis who were under systematic surveillance for diarrhea. Cases were children less than 3 years old who presented between 1 January 1985 and 1 June 1986 for care of heat labile (LT) or heat stabile toxin-producing ETEC diarrhea. Controls were of similar ages and were randomly selected from three community-based serosurveys between July 1985 and May 1986. No association between blood group O and ETEC diarrhea was found for the 510 cases and 641 controls, nor was an association evident for cases of each toxin phenotype. Further refinement of the case definition to include only patients with LT-ETEC diarrhea, without enteric copathogens, also failed to reveal a substantial association with blood group O. These data suggest that a strong association with ABO groups, analogous to that for cholera, does not exist for ETEC diarrhea. 
Alleged brain damage, diminished capacity, mens rea, and misuse of medical concepts. As focus on the insanity defense diminishes, defendants may place emphasis on a lack of knowing or purposeful behavior in order to negate a criminal charge. This use of a mens rea defense in accord with Model Penal Code principles is exemplified by the current New Jersey statute. Such a defense may result in a lesser charge or a finding of not guilty. In addition to reviewing applicable law, this report presents a sex offense case in which remote brain damage was invoked as a purported basis for incapacity to formulate the required intent; the study also raises the issue of the inappropriate or questionable use of medical principles, a practice that diminishes professional credibility in the courts and in the community. 
Regulation of Ras-GAP and the neurofibromatosis-1 gene product by eicosanoids. Ras-GAP (GTPase activating protein) is a regulatory protein that stimulates the intrinsic guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) activity of the proto-oncogene product p21ras. A domain of the neurofibromatosis gene product (NF1) that has sequence similarity to the catalytic domain of Ras-GAP and to yeast IRA gene products also has a specific stimulatory activity toward p21ras GTPase. Arachidonic acid and phosphatidic acid inactivate GAP, but no agents have been identified that stimulate GAP and thereby switch p21ras off. With the use of recombinant Ha-c-Ras and Ras-GAP, NF1, and GAP catalytic domains, it was found that prostaglandins PGF2 alpha and PGA2 stimulated Ras-GAP and that prostacyclin PGI2 inhibited Ras-GAP. The stimulatory effect of PGF2 alpha was saturable and structure-specific and competed with the inhibitory effect of arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid also inhibited the catalytic activity of NF1, but prostaglandins were not stimulatory. These results suggest a mechanism for the allosteric control of Ras function through the modulation of arachidonate metabolism. 
Treatment of male genital condylomatous lesions by carbon dioxide laser after failure of previous nonlaser methods. Carbon dioxide laser was used to treat 119 male patients with condylomata acuminata after other treatments had failed. In 82.3% of the patients, the treatment resulted in complete disappearance of the lesions, whereas in the others two to three treatments were required. Advantages of the laser treatment are discussed. 
Effects of quinapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, on left ventricular failure and survival in the cardiomyopathic hamster. Hemodynamic, morphological, and biochemical correlates. The effect of chronic therapy with quinapril on the temporal progression of left ventricular failure and survival was assessed in the CHF 146 cardiomyopathic (CM) hamster, which is an idiopathic model of congestive heart failure. Age-matched Golden Syrian (GS) hamsters served as normal controls. Quinapril was administered in the drinking water at average daily doses of 10.2, 112.4, and 222.4 mg/kg/day. In untreated CM hamsters, in vitro left ventricular performance progressively deteriorated with increasing age beginning at roughly 180 days. This decline in left ventricular performance was accompanied by a decrease in coronary flow and an increase in left ventricular volume. Administration of quinapril from 180 to 300 days of age prevented the decline of in vitro left ventricular contractile performance and coronary flow and also reduced the age-dependent increases in left ventricular volume. The cardioprotective effects of quinapril were observed at doses of 112.4 and 222.4 mg/kg/day but not at 10.2 mg/kg/day. Lung angiotensin converting enzyme activity was significantly inhibited by quinapril in GS and CM hamsters at 240 and 300 days of age at all dose levels. In contrast, significant inhibition of ventricular angiotensin converting enzyme activity was observed consistently at doses of 112.4 and 222.4 mg/kg/day quinapril but not at 10.2 mg/kg/day. In the survival protocol, CM and GS hamsters were treated with vehicle or quinapril (100 mg/kg/day) from 180 to 522 days of age. During the initial 210 days of treatment (from 180 to 390 days of age) 78.3% of the vehicle-treated CM hamsters died compared with 27.7% of quinapril-treated CM hamsters. Quinapril increased the median survival time of CM hamsters by 32.9% (112 days). It is concluded that chronic quinapril therapy exerts a significant cardioprotective effect and also increases survival. 
Two-point fixation of the lumbar spine. Differential stability in rotation. Single vertebral motion segments were tested in torsion. The adjacent vertebrae were transfixed by two 3-mm Steinman pins placed vertically. These were applied in five different positions: between the anterior vertebral bodies, posterior vertebral bodies, pedicles, transverse processes, and lamina. Rotational displacement was limited the most by transfixation between the vertebral bodies (position one or two). Disrupting the anulus fibrosus significantly increased rotation in all positions except those in the vertebral body. These findings may imply that spinal fixation devices that engage the vertebral bodies may offer inherent advantages over purely posterior devices in stabilizing a vertebral motion segment. In addition, an interbody arthrodesis may prevent intervertebral motion better than a posterior or posterolateral fusion. 
The nutcracker syndrome: new aspects of pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to study vascular anatomy in 3 patients with the nutcracker syndrome and in 10 healthy volunteers. From these studies an abnormal branching of the superior mesenteric artery from the aorta was identified as being the cause of the nutcracker syndrome. Consequently, surgical transposition of the left renal vein to achieve an unobstructed renal venous backflow was performed successfully in 2 patients, while 1 underwent nephrectomy. In 1 patient adjuvant ureteral instrumentation became necessary to aid occlusion of persisting shunts between peripelvic venous varicosities and the urinary tract. Awareness of the pathophysiology of the nutcracker syndrome ensures an early diagnosis, which should be confirmed by a combination of diagnostic procedures, including MRI. 
Course of brittle diabetes: 12 year follow up. OBJECTIVE--To determine the course of brittle diabetes. DESIGN--12 year follow up of patients identified in 1977-9 as having brittle diabetes; retrospective review of the case notes. SETTING--Nottingham health district. SUBJECTS--25 brittle diabetic patients were identified in 1979-9; 11 (five men) had three or more admissions with ketoacidosis between June 1977 and 1979 and 14 (eight men) had three or more attendances at the accident and emergency department with hypoglycaemia in 1978. Two controls from our diabetic register were matched to each patient for age, sex, and duration of diabetes. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Frequency of ketoacidosis and severe hypoglycaemia in the 12 years after ascertainment; diabetic control and complications in 1988-90; retrospective attribution of the cause of brittleness. RESULTS--Patients with recurrent ketoacidosis had had a median (range) of 28 (8-67) episodes. One man died of a cerebral tumour but five of the surviving nine patients had not been admitted in the past two years, although diabetic control remained poor (median haemoglobin A1 concentration 14%). Seven patients had pure hypoglycaemic brittleness, and five had also had eight or more admissions with ketoacidosis (mixed brittleness). Two died of uraemia within a year after ascertainment and two others in hypoglycaemic coma seven and 12 years later. Brittle diabetes was in most cases related to a specific situation, usually unhappiness at home or school. CONCLUSIONS--Brittle diabetes is often episodic and almost always related to stressful life circumstances. Once the underlying cause is removed it tends to improve. Recurrent hypoglycaemic brittleness of psychological origin has a poor prognosis. 
Whole-abdominal irradiation for the management of gastrointestinal and abdominal manifestations of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. A patient with a long-standing history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia developed weight loss and ascites secondary to gastric/small bowel infiltration and peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue. Moderate doses of radiation were very effective in controlling her gastrointestinal symptoms. In contrast to previous reports, clinical improvement after irradiation was a slow, gradual process, requiring 5 months for complete resolution of the patient's ascites. Hematologic suppression may be profound and careful attention to the rate of change in leukocyte and platelet counts is necessary to avoid severe toxicity. 
Twenty five years of case finding and audit in a socially deprived community. OBJECTIVE--To evaluate audit and case finding (whole population care) in a community over 25 years. DESIGN--Contemporary screening for and audits of care of chronic disease and risk factors; retrospective review of computerised practice records; and comparisons of mortality and social indices with neighbouring communities. SETTING--One general practice in Glyncorrwg, West Glamorgan. SUBJECTS--1800 people registered with the practice in 1987 and 558 people who died from 1964 to 1987, whose records had been retained. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Detection of high blood pressure, smoking, airways obstruction, obesity, diabetes, and alcohol problems in adults aged 20-79; prevalence of smoking in this population and in hypertensive and diabetic groups; age standardised mortality ratios in relation to indices of social deprivation. RESULTS--In the population aged 20-79 (1207 patients) 249 (21%) had peak expiratory flow rate less than 50% of expected value or which improved by 15% or more with an inhaled beta agonist, 207 (17%) had body mass index at or over 30 kg/m2, 118 (10%) had untreated mean arterial pressures greater than 159/104 mm Hg (three readings), 80 (7%) (65 (16%) men, 15 (4%) women) had recognised alcohol problems, and 35 (3%) had diabetes. The proportion of men aged 20-64 who said they smoked fell from 61% (290/476) in 1968-70 to 36% (162/456) in 1985 whereas that of women who smoked was unchanged (43%, 187/436 v 42%, 190/448 respectively). In 116 screened hypertensive patients group mean blood pressure fell from 186/110 mm Hg before treatment to 146/84 mm Hg at 1987 audit, as did the proportion of smokers (56% v 20%), but body mass index and total cholesterol concentration showed no significant change. In 34 diabetic patients mean blood pressure and the proportion of smokers fell (171/93 mm Hg v 155/81 mm Hg; 44% v 12%). The age standardised mortality ratio in 1981-6 was lower than in a neighbouring village without a developed case finding programme (actual to expected deaths less than 65 = 21 to 22 in Glyncorrwg, 48 to 30 in control village). CONCLUSIONS--Whole population care through organised case finding and audit is feasible but only with a labour intensive approach combining accessibility, flexibility, and continuity, as well as a planned and structured approach, which requires substantial expansion of staff numbers and assiduous recording. It may reduce risks for at least some high risk groups. Despite their shortcomings the available data are consistent with the hypothesis that whole population care helps reduce mortality. Incentives in the new contract, which encourage the uncritical development of structured process, may diminish health outputs. 
Sensitivity of the gastric mucosa to acid and duodenal contents in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia. Nonulcer dyspepsia is a common clinical syndrome whose etiology is unknown. The sensitivity of the gastric mucosa to acid and duodenal contents in 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia was studied. The patients had a normal upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and biopsy specimens were obtained for determination of Helicobacter pylori status. Fifteen of the 18 patients were infected with H. pylori. All patients underwent intubation with double-lumen tube and collection of cholecystokinin-stimulated pancretico-biliary secretions. Subsequently, normal saline, 0.1N hydrochloric acid, and autologous duodenal secretions were infused into the stomach in a randomized blinded fashion. A positive response was defined as the production of epigastric pain by acid and/or bile but not by saline. By this definition, only 6 patients (33%) had a positive response and none had reproduction of their usual symptoms. In patients with a negative response, only 4 remained asymptomatic during all infusions. The remaining 8 had symptoms during infusion of saline, 7 of whom also had symptoms during infusion of acid and/or duodenal secretions. Two of these patients had reproduction of their usual symptoms. In conclusion, the gastric mucosa in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia is not abnormally sensitive to acid or duodenal contents. 
Cell-cycle-related staining patterns of anti-proliferating cell nuclear antigen monoclonal antibodies. Comparison with BrdUrd labeling and Ki-67 staining. Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to nuclear antigens are increasingly used as tools to obtain valuable information concerning the proliferative characteristics of various types of cancer. Prerequisite for the application of these MAbs in surgical pathology is establishment of the level of expression and/or cellular distribution of the antigens in relation to distinct cell-cycle compartments. In this study the topologic distribution of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), an auxiliary protein of DNA polymerase delta, as recognized by human autoantiserum (AK) and two recently developed MAbs (19A2 and 19F4), was evaluated. Using cultured human cancer cells as a model system, and providing optimal fixation/permeation procedures are applied, these antibodies display a high affinity for PCNA bound to nuclear replicon clusters, resulting in distinct granular staining patterns. A more diffuse nucleoplasmic PCNA staining was mainly restricted to non-S-phase cells; in methanol-fixed cells, staining intensity of this form relative to the replicon-bound form appeared higher after staining with 19A2 than with 19F4 or AK. Comparing PCNA expression (detected with 19A2) with the expression of the Ki-67 antigen, PCNA-negative cells are also Ki-67 negative. In MCF-7 human breast cancer cells treated with 10(-6) mol/l (molar) tamoxifen, the fraction of nuclei showing replication patterns decreased from 42% to 8% within 8 days, but PCNA and Ki-67 antigens remained detectable in most cells during this interval, indicating a relatively slow decrease of antigen expression in cells that have entered a quiescent state. Treatment of MCF-7 cells with 10(-6) mol/l methotrexate resulted in a rapid accumulation of cells with an early S-phase DNA content; PCNA replication patterns showing a frequency distribution reflecting this DNA content were observed up to 48 hours after treatment. This indicates that the presence of replication patterns as visualized with anti-PCNAs is not a measure of replicative activity per se. It is concluded that, providing nuclear non-S-phase PCNA staining is faint relative to staining of replicon clusters, anti-PCNA antibodies may be excellent markers to detect in situ cells with S-phase DNA contents. 
Acute myocardial infarction associated with prostaglandin E2. Prostaglandin E2 is rarely associated with serious maternal side effects when used for second-trimester pregnancy termination. Acute myocardial infarction complicating therapeutic pregnancy termination with prostaglandin E2 in a patient with chronic glomerulosclerosis and severe hypertension is reported. 
Continuous spinal anaesthesia for abdominal surgery in a patient receiving amiodarone. The perioperative management of a 57-yr-old patient receiving chronic amiodarone therapy with a continuous spinal anaesthetic for a low anterior resection of the colon is discussed. The most appropriate anaesthetic technique for patients receiving chronic amiodarone therapy remains controversial, but the avoidance of general anaesthesia may be beneficial because of the risk of postoperative pulmonary failure. In this patient continuous spinal anaesthesia was slowly titrated to the desired level, coincident haemodynamic alterations were easily treated as they developed, and high serum local anaesthetic concentrations which occur with other regional anaesthetic techniques were avoided. 
Submaximal endurance exercise performance during enalapril treatment in patients with essential hypertension. In a double-blind randomized crossover study of 10 patients with mild essential hypertension, the influence of antihypertensive treatment with the angiotensin-I converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (a single dose of 10 mg.day-1) on submaximal endurance exercise performance at a work rate eliciting a heart rate of 150 beats/min was studied. Resting and exercise blood pressure were significantly reduced during enalapril therapy. Heart rate was unaffected. Submaximal endurance exercise performance was reduced by 12% (p = 0.06). Plasma lactate concentrations were significantly increased and serum nonesterified fatty acid concentrations were decreased during exercise in patients receiving enalapril treatment. Plasma glucose and potassium levels and serum glycerol concentrations were not influenced by enalapril treatment. Because the impairment of endurance performance during enalapril treatment is relatively small compared with the reductions caused by other antihypertensive agents, such as beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents or diuretics, it is of minor clinical importance for most physically active patients with hypertension. 
Stage distribution of breast cancer: a basis for the evaluation of breast screening programmes. Stage at presentation can be predictive of future mortality rates. A change in stage distribution will be indicative of the effect of a programme. All registrations for 1985 aged over 50 years were staged from case notes and, to assess whether a stage drift is already occurring, cases that presented in 1975 were also staged. The accuracy and completeness of the Wessex Cancer Register for this particular cancer was assessed and further sources of registration identified. There was a significant difference between 1975 and 1985 stage distributions. If the Southampton and Salisbury service achieves the same success as the Gavleborg County trials, 4.61 deaths will be prevented at 5 years for each annual cohort of cases. For individual breast screening programmes, effectiveness is better monitored by analysis of stage distribution than of mortality rates. 
Transfalcine approach to a callosomarginal artery aneurysm. We describe a transfalcine approach to clipping and subsequently excising an expanding mycotic callosomarginal aneurysm. The patient had a devastating dominant (left) hemispheric spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage and was neurologically improving at the time of surgery nearly 2 months later. To avoid retracting the left hemisphere, we approached this left callosomarginal aneurysm from the nondominant side through the falx. The approach was straight-forward, and the result was satisfactory. 
Preherpetic neuralgia. We have encountered six zoster patients whose pain preceded rash by 7 to more than 100 days. Pain was severe, burning, and radicular, and located both in dermatomes different from, as well as in, the area of eventual rash. Two patients ultimately developed disseminated zoster with neurologic complications, one of zoster paresis, and the other, a fatal zoster encephalitis; both had been taking long-term, low-dose steroids. A third case of preherpetic neuralgia developed in a patient with prior metastatic carcinoma, and another case in a patient with an earlier episode of brachial neuritis. The final two cases of preherpetic neuralgia developed in individuals with no underlying disease. An extended period of pain before the onset of zoster rash has gone largely unrecognized. 
Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with myocardial dysfunction and acute leukemia. The role of amsacrine in inducing remission in patients with cardiac disease and acute leukemia was evaluated. There were 17 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), six with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and one with biphenotypic leukemia. In this series of 24 patients whose disease had relapsed and who had reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, nine had a complete remission, seven with AML and two with ALL. In addition, four of six with newly diagnosed acute leukemia and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction also responded. Among nine patients who underwent endomyocardial biopsy, none had morphologic changes of sufficient degree to account for drug-induced heart failure. Patients with preexisting arrhythmias received amsacrine without incident if their serum potassium level was higher than 4.0 mEq/l at the time of drug administration. Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with acute leukemia and cardiac disease. 
Pagetoid carcinomatous involvement of the penile urethra in association with high-grade transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. We present a case of pagetoid carcinomatous involvement of the penile urethra and periurethral glands following cystoprostatectomy for high-grade transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. Previously reported cases with involvement of the urethra are reviewed. This condition is believed to be a rare variant of transitional cell carcinoma in situ. 
Mechanisms of failure of mitral valve repair: an echocardiographic study. Surgical valve repair for mitral regurgitation has significant advantages over valve replacement, but little is known about the mechanisms of its failure. This echocardiographic study examined abnormalities leading to failed mitral valve repair in two populations: "immediate failure" of the valve repair in the operating room requiring a second run of cardiopulmonary bypass and "late failure" of valve repair necessitating reoperation on another occasion. Intraoperative echocardiography (IOE) after cardiopulmonary bypass was performed in 309 patients undergoing valve repair for mitral regurgitation over a 3-year period. Twenty-six (8%) of these patients had immediate failure of the repair demonstrated by IOE, requiring further repair or replacement during the same thoracotomy. The causes of immediate failure were left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (10 patients), incomplete correction (10 patients), and suture dehiscence (six patients). Echocardiography was performed on 17 patients requiring reoperation for recurrent mitral regurgitation who had undergone previous primary valve repair. These late failures resulted from progressive degenerative leaflet or chordal disease (n = 9) or suture dehiscence of the annular ring or the leaflet resection site (n = 6). In only two patients early in the series did the problem originate from inadequate initial surgery. IOE is an effective marker for unsuccessful mitral valve repair, and affords an understanding of the mechanism of the persistent dysfunction. Immediate failure of mitral repair may be reduced by greater attention to the mechanism of valve dysfunction and by changes in valvuloplasty technique to avoid outflow tract obstruction. Late failure after mitral repair occurs predominantly due to progression of disease, particularly in patients with severe myxomatous or annular abnormalities that are prone to progress. 
Localized Aspergillus infestation in primary lung carcinoma. Clinical and pathological contrasts with post-tuberculous intracavitary aspergilloma. Saprophytic infestation with Aspergillus was observed in pathologic specimens of primary squamous cell lung carcinoma. In one case, the fungus grew in cystic scarred parenchyma and bronchi distal to an obstructing carcinoma of a segment bronchus. In the other, fungi colonized the inner surface of a peripheral cavitary carcinoma. Neither patient had roentgenographic evidence of aspergilloma and neither experienced severe pulmonary hemorrhage or other complications attributable to the presence of fungus. Although both specimens showed colonizing growth within the abnormal air spaces, in neither had the colonies detached to form a separate intracavitary fungus ball. These patients, and eight patients with similar lesions reported in the literature, demonstrate that Aspergillus colonization of a lung neoplasm frequently lacks one or both of the features characteristic of post-inflammatory intracavitary aspergilloma, a loose fungus ball and antifungal serum antibodies. No patient, to date, has developed massive hemorrhage as a complication of this lesion. 
Scopolamine patch reduces postoperative emesis in paediatric patients following strabismus surgery. Scopolamine patch was evaluated for the prevention of postoperative emesis in 50 children undergoing strabismus surgery. All subjects were premedicated, with none receiving narcotic premedicants. Anaesthesia included controlled ventilation with the use of muscle relaxants, atropine, and halothane. Before operation, the subjects were randomly assigned to one of two groups: a treatment group received a scopolamine patch at a dose of either 0.75 mg or 0.375 mg, and a control group received no patch. Both the incidence and frequency of vomiting in the scopolamine-treated group were significantly (P less than 0.05) lower than in the control group. 
Recurrence risk of a new dominant mutation in children of unaffected parents. Extensions to models originally described by Hartl for predicting the recurrence risk of new dominant mutations are developed in this paper. Additions to the models are (1) possible somatic mosaicism in a parent in some families, (2) the possibility that the parental origin of the mutation may or may not be known, and (3) mutation rates which change as a function of sex and/or time. The models indicate that recurrence risks are most critically affected by (a) the amount of somatic mosaicism which can be tolerated in the parent without manifesting disease and (b) knowledge of the parental origin of the mutation. In addition, there is a moderate effect on recurrence risks if mutation rates increase in the father as a function of time. Recurrence risks are at least as large as the risk of trisomy 21 in a child of a mother of age 35 years or older, probably much higher (5%-10%) when the mutation is known to be of maternal origin or if substantial somatic mosaicism in the parent is compatible with a normal phenotype. The recurrence risk of a new mutation is high because of a very high ascertainment bias of families with substantial germ-line mosaicism. 
Smoking-attributable cancer mortality in 1991: is lung cancer now the leading cause of death among smokers in the United States? Findings from the new American Cancer Society prospective study of 1.2 million men and women indicate that mortality risks among smokers have increased substantially for most of the eight major cancer sites causally associated with cigarette smoking. Lung cancer risk for male smokers doubled, while the risk for females increased more than fourfold. On the basis of the new American Cancer Society relative risks, we project that cigarette smoking alone will contribute to slightly more than 157,000 of the 514,000 total cancer deaths expected to occur in the United States in 1991. Overall, smoking directly contributes to 21.5% of all cancer deaths in women but 45% of all cancer deaths in men. It would also appear that lung cancer has now displaced coronary heart disease as the single leading cause of excess mortality among smokers in the United States. 
Extracorporeal lithotripsy. An important adjunct in the nonoperative management of retained or recurrent bile duct stones. Retained or recurrent bile duct stones can be successfully removed in up to 80% to 85% of patients with the use of percutaneous or endoscopic techniques. However, problems related to difficult biliary access, large stones, and biliary strictures may decrease the success rate of this approach. We evaluated the safety and efficacy of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in 16 patients with complicated biliary stones treated prospectively over a 24-month period. Successful stone fragmentation was achieved in 15 patients (94%) using a Dornier HM3 lithotripter (average of 2290 shocks at 22 kV). Three patients (19%) required a second ESWL treatment. Biliary clearance of stone fragments was spontaneous in seven (43%) of the patients and required additional treatment in eight (57%) of the patients. Complications from ESWL were minor and included transient hematuria and ecchymoses at the skin entry site. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy failed in one patient (6%) with a biliary stricture and surgery was required. At hospital discharge, all patients were asymptomatic and stone free. Treatment with ESWL appears to be a safe and effective adjunct for selected patients with complex biliary stone disease. 
Purtscher's-like retinopathy after childbirth. Severe bilateral visual loss attributable to multiple retinal arteriolar occlusions occurred in four young women within 24 hours after childbirth. In two patients, labor was complicated by preeclampsia requiring cesarean section. One patient was suffering from pancreatitis. None had connective tissue disease or antecedent trauma. Ophthalmoscopy and fluorescein angiography revealed evidence of multiple superficial peripapillary and macular patches of ischemic retinal whitening simulating Purtscher's retinopathy. By 8 weeks, the white patches were resolving in all eyes and visual acuity had significantly improved in three of the four patients. The pathogenesis of this disorder is unknown but may involve arteriolar obstruction by complement-induced leukoemboli formed during parturition. 
Seronegative symmetric polyarthritis in Sezary syndrome. We describe a patient with Sezary syndrome and seronegative symmetric polyarthritis. Detailed analysis of the synovial membrane, including T lymphocyte subset delineation, demonstrated that malignant synovial infiltration was the direct cause of arthritis in this patient. 
Cyclophosphamide cardiotoxicity in bone marrow transplantation: a prospective evaluation of new dosing regimens. Cyclophosphamide (CY) cardiotoxicity may be a lethal complication of bone marrow transplantation. Previous echocardiographic studies have reported that left ventricular dysfunction due to CY occurs in over 50% of patients undergoing transplantation. To evaluate the cardiotoxicity of new dosing protocols that included twice-daily rather than once-daily CY, 44 bone marrow transplantation patients were prospectively evaluated with serial ECGs and echocardiograms. Twenty-six patients received a once-daily lower-dose protocol (mean total 87 +/- 11 mg/kg), and 18 patients received a twice-daily higher-dose (mean total 174 +/- 34 mg/kg) CY regimen. In the higher-dose CY group, significant reductions in summed ECG voltage (-20%) (P less than .01) and increases in left ventricular mass index (LVMI) (+10%) (P less than .05) were detected in the first week following therapy. These changes resolved by the third week following CY and were significantly greater than the changes noted in the lower-dose group. However, left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) did not change significantly in either group. Five patients developed clinical cardiotoxicity (four, pericarditis; one, congestive heart failure); four of the five patients were in the higher-dose group (P = .14). Only a prior history of congestive heart failure or a baseline EF less than 50% was an independent correlate of clinical cardiotoxicity (P less than .05). Thus, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity following the use of CY for bone marrow transplantation is evident as reversible decreases in ECG voltage and increases in left ventricular mass, possibly reflecting myocardial edema or hemorrhage. However, systolic dysfunction is much less common with these new twice-daily dosing regimens when compared with earlier studies of high-dose once-daily CY. 
Engraftment after infusion of CD34+ marrow cells in patients with breast cancer or neuroblastoma. The CD34 antigen is expressed by 1% to 4% of human and baboon marrow cells, including virtually all hematopoietic progenitors detectable by in vitro assays. Previous work from our laboratory has shown that CD34+ marrow cells can engraft lethally irradiated baboons. Because the CD34 antigen has not been detected on most solid tumors, positive selection of CD34+ cells may be used to provide marrow cells capable of engraftment, but depleted of tumor cells. In seven patients with stage IV breast cancer and two patients with stage IV neuroblastoma, 2.5 to 17.5 x 10(9) marrow cells were separated by immunoadsorption with the anti-CD34 antibody 12-8 and 50 to 260 x 10(6) positively selected cells were recovered that were 64 +/- 16% (range 35% to 92%) CD34+. The patients received 1.0 to 5.2 x 10(6) CD34-enriched cells/kg after marrow ablative therapy. Six patients engrafted, achieving granulocyte counts of greater than 500/mm3 at 34 +/- 10 (range 21 to 47) days and platelets counts of greater than 20,000/mm3 at 46 +/- 14 (range 28 to 66) days posttransplant. Five of these patients showed durable engraftment until the time of death 82 to 386 days posttransplant. One patient failed to sustain engraftment associated with metastatic marrow disease. Three patients died at days 14, 14, and 17 posttransplant, two of whom had evidence of early engraftment. These studies suggest that CD34+ marrow cells are capable of reconstituting hematopoiesis in humans. 
Vasopressin levels in infants during the course of aseptic and bacterial meningitis. We measured urine vasopressin (VP) once daily on days 1 through 3 in 18 patients hospitalized with meningitis. Urine VP values were 215 +/- 100, 116 +/- 44, and 69 +/- 23 pg/mL on days 1 through 3, respectively, for children with bacterial meningitis and 34 +/- 14, 20 +/- 4, and 15 +/- 4 pg/mL for those with aseptic meningitis. Urinary VP levels of infants with bacterial meningitis were significantly greater than those of healthy ambulatory subjects (n = 18) on all three study days; VP values of infants with bacterial meningitis were also greater than those of infants with aseptic meningitis on study days 2 and 3. The VP levels for the subjects with aseptic meningitis were significantly greater than those of the controls on day 1 only. None of the infants exhibited the clinical syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion. 
Femoral-distal bypass with in situ greater saphenous vein. Long-term results using the Mills valvulotome. During a 7-year period, 440 consecutive in situ saphenous vein grafts originating in the groin were performed in 371 patients, exposing the entire vein for valvulotomy with a modified Mills valvulotome. critical ischemia was the indication for bypass in 68%, and the distal anastomosis was to an infrapopliteal artery in 46%. Thirty-day operative mortality was 2.0%. Postoperative surveillance identified 18 stenotic grafts (4.1%), which were revised while still patent (primary revised patency); 36 grafts (8.2%) underwent revision after graft occlusion (secondary patency). Five-year life-table analysis showed overall primary revised patency of 78%, secondary patency of 83%, limb salvage of 88%, and patient survival of 66%. Femoroperoneal and inframalleolar bypasses fared well. The presence of diabetes did not diminish late graft patency. In contrast to reversed vein grafts, long infrapopliteal in situ grafts had long-term secondary patency similar to shorter femoropopliteal bypass grafts (p greater than 0.05). These results, coupled with the versatility and simplicity of the technique as used in the present series, suggest that in situ vein grafting is the procedure of choice for long infrapopliteal bypass. 
Disseminated malignant melanoma and recombinant interferon: analysis of seven consecutive phase II investigations. We have performed seven phase II trials with recombinant interferons (IFN) involving 191 patients with biopsy-proved, measurable disseminated malignant melanoma. The regimens and numbers of patients have included IFN-alpha 2A, 50 X 10(6) U/m2 subcutaneous (SQ) TIW (regimen A, 31 patients); IFN-alpha 2A, 12 X 10(6) U/m2 SQ TIW (regimen B, 30 patients); IFN-alpha 2A with cimetidine as an immunorestorative agent (regimen C, 35 patients); IFN-gamma (regimen E, 29 patients); IFN-alpha 2A with IFN gamma (Regimen E, 20 patients); IFN-alpha 2A with bis-chloroethylnitrosourea (BCNU) (regimen F, 30 patients); and IFN-alpha 2A with the biochemical modulator, difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) (regimen G, 16 patients). The objective regression rates were as follows: A, 23%; B, 20%; C, 23%; D, 10%; E, 5%; F, 7%; G, 0%. Despite the higher response rate from regimen A, there appeared to be no survival advantage from any of these programs. The median time to progression was 1 month with a median survival time of 6 months. Most regressions involved soft tissue disease, were partial, and occurred within 2-3 months of treatment. Four patients received IFN for approximately 6 months and have manifested extraordinarily durable regressions of greater than 4+ years. The alpha-regimens produced a flu-type illness and anorexia which were dose-related. Leukopenia was most noteworthy with regimens containing gamma-interferon. Ongoing trials involving alternative and improved immune-related modalities are awaited with keen interest. 
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging of the brain: value of differentiating between extraaxial cysts and epidermoid tumors. This study demonstrates the use of diffusion-weighted MR imaging in improving the specificity of the diagnosis of extraaxial brain tumors. Three surgically proved lesions (one arachnoid cyst and two epidermoid tumors) and two nonsurgically proved lesions (arachnoid and ependymal cysts) were evaluated with T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo studies followed by intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) MR imaging. The IVIM images of the lesions were displayed as an apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) image obtained at 0.65 G/cm (maximum gradient b value = 100 sec/mm2) and compared with external oil and water phantoms. The ADC of arachnoid cysts was similar to stationary water whereas the ADC of epidermoid tumors was similar to brain parenchyma, indicating the solid nature and the slower diffusion rate of the epidermoid tumors. Cisternal CSF demonstrated uniformly high ADC, primarily because of bulk flow, which enhanced image contrast. Improved delineation of postsurgical changes was also possible. Our preliminary results show that diffusion-weighted MR imaging can be useful in distinguishing between arachnoid cysts and epidermoid tumors. 
The prophylactic use of cyclooxygenase inhibitors in recurrent herpes simplex infections. In an open study, continuous oral therapy with cyclooxygenase inhibitors (ibuprofen or indomethacin) reduced the incidence and frequency of recurrent eruptions in nine of 16 patients with herpes simplex virus infection. Retrospective analysis of seven cases indicated that natural killer cell enhancement assays might allow us to predict the clinical outcome of such treatment. 
Fusiform dilatations of the carotid artery following radical surgery of childhood craniopharyngiomas. Between 1982 and 1990, a series of 31 children with craniopharyngiomas underwent initial surgery at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia with an attempt at total tumor removal. Nine (29%) of them were found to have fusiform dilatation of the supraclinoid carotid artery either at the time of surgery for recurrence (one patient) or on routine surveillance with enhanced computerized tomography 6 to 18 months postoperatively (eight patients). The finding of carotid enlargement was confirmed in seven cases with magnetic resonance angiography and in one case with a formal arteriogram. Eight of the nine patients remain alive at a mean of 3.7 years after diagnosis. None have experienced hemorrhage or other symptoms referrable to fusiform dilatation of the carotid artery, which is believed to result from surgical manipulation of the carotid artery. 
The effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy on renal growth, function and arterial blood pressure in an animal model. The long-term effects of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL*) on children treated for renal calculi are unclear. To study the long-term bio-effects of this mode of treatment on the immature animal we evaluated 30 New Zealand white rabbits at 7 weeks of age for weight, serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine, and arterial blood pressure after which they underwent left nephrectomy. Each group of 5 rabbits received ESWL of varying levels (500 to 3,000 shock waves) to the remaining right kidney using the Northgate SD3 lithotriptor (spark gap mediated). One control group received no shock waves. At maturity (16 weeks) the aforementioned parameters were measured again, and the kidneys and any grossly abnormal adjacent organs were examined. We found no significant change in total animal growth, renal growth, renal function or perirenal organs in the post-ESWL groups versus the control group. All post-ESWL groups had an increase in mean arterial blood pressure versus the control group with 3 of 6 groups showing significant increases (p less than 0.05). Histological renal changes, seen at all energy levels of ESWL delivered, included interstitial fibrosis, tubular atrophy, glomeruli destruction, capsular thickening, perivascular fibrosis and mild arteriole wall thickening. Changes were proportional to the number of shocks received. We conclude that ESWL delivered to immature animals does not significantly affect renal growth and function but it can cause significant permanent histological renal changes even at low doses and may result in an increase in adult mean arterial blood pressure. 
Adenoid cystic carcinoma: DNA as a prognostic indicator. A retrospective study was performed on 20 patients with adenoid cystic carcinomas of major salivary glands to see if DNA patterns correlated with their prognoses. Fourteen tumors were found to be DNA diploid; 6 were DNA aneuploid. Histologically, all DNA-aneuploid tumors had solid components, compared with only 5 of the DNA-diploid tumors. All of the DNA-aneuploid tumors recurred, in contrast to only 2 of the DNA-diploid tumors; the difference was highly significant (P less than 0.001). All of the patients with no recurrences had DNA-diploid tumors. In our study, DNA measurements of adenoid cystic carcinomas gave statistically significant information about prognosis and correlated to histological grading. We propose that evaluation of DNA content may be performed before planning the treatment of adenoid cystic carcinomas. 
Ventriculoatrial shunts for hydrocephalus and cardiac valvulopathy: an echocardiographic evaluation. A group of 20 patients with ventriculoatrial shunts placed as surgical treatment for hydrocephalus were evaluated for cardiac lesions, particularly of the tricuspid valve. Patients with histories of septic or thromboembolic events were excluded. In each patient a clinical history, complete physical examination, electrocardiogram, chest x-ray film and M-mode, two-dimensional and pulsed continuous wave and color-coded Doppler echocardiography were performed. Eight patients were found to have cardiac abnormalities including tricuspid valve insufficiency, tricuspid stenosis and insufficiency, and the catheter passing through the foramen ovale into the left atrium. These findings demonstrate that tricuspid valvular lesions are frequent in patients with ventriculoatrial shunts, and that periodic echocardiographic evaluation should be performed routinely. 
Computed tomography of cranial metastatic malignant melanoma: features, early detection and unusual cases. The cranial computed tomographic (CT) scans reported as showing metastatic disease in patients with malignant melanoma (MM) seen at the Westminster Hospital over a 5 year period were reviewed. Ninety-eight patients with intracranial metastatic MM were identified. Twelve had an initial scan which was reported as normal and particular attention was given to these to see if, in retrospect, any early features of metastatic disease were discernible. Fifty-eight cases showed the "typical" features of intracranial MM; the remainder were unusual in appearance, behavior, or site. Radiological regression was shown in only seven cases on follow-up scans; all but one of these patients had one or two large metastases. No significant lesion was thought to have been missed on a scan after the administration of intravenous contrast medium, but the lesions of three patients were difficult to discern on plain scans. Thus when MM metastasis is suspected, the use of the contrast-only scan is advocated. 
Thalamic atrophy following cerebral infarction in the territory of the middle cerebral artery. We investigated shrinkage of the ipsilateral thalamus following infarction in the territory of the middle cerebral artery in 33 patients who were admitted less than or equal to 2 days after the stroke and who were followed by computed tomography for greater than 1 year with no recurrences. The thalamic area was measured on the computed tomograms, and the ratio of the ipsilateral area to the contralateral area was calculated. All values were compared with values from the initial computed tomogram taken less than or equal to 2 days after the stroke. The values of the ratio on follow-up computed tomograms decreased gradually in 15 patients. In these cases, the area of the ipsilateral thalamus was significantly reduced after 1 year (p less than 0.01) and marked atrophy was observed. These results demonstrate the significance of remote changes over a long period of time after focal cerebral infarction. 
Efficacy and safety of prehospital rewarming techniques to treat accidental hypothermia. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of inhalation rewarming and peripheral rewarming for reducing the body core temperature afterdrop and accelerating rewarming rates. DESIGN: Prospective, randomized human experimentation. SETTING: Physiology laboratory with cooling during ice water immersion and rewarming in rescue sleeping bags in a windy, cold (2 C) air environment. Type of participants: Eight experimental subjects who were cooled to clinical hypothermia (35.0 C), rectal or esophageal temperature (Tr or Te). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Afterdrop was characterized as minimum Tr and Te plus recovery time to the Tr and Te levels at the onset of rewarming. Rewarming rates 30 and 60 minutes after maximum afterdrop for Tr and Te were measured. By analysis of variance, inhalation rewarming and peripheral rewarming evaluated separately or in combination did not significantly influence afterdrop duration, afterdrop recovery, or rewarming rates. CONCLUSION: With no physiological benefit and hazards identified (inhalation rewarming burning the face, peripheral rewarming eliminating carbon monoxide equal to 300 to 600 ppm), inhalation rewarming and peripheral rewarming are not recommended for the prehospital treatment of mild hypothermia. 
Reduction of infarct size by systemic amino acid supplementation during reperfusion. The amino acids aspartate and glutamate, in combination, were evaluated as a means of reducing infarct size and improving cardiac function during reperfusion in an intact pig having an acute anteroseptal infarct. Three groups of 6 pigs each were randomly studied in a blinded manner: control (no amino acids), aspartate/glutamate 3 mmol/L, and aspartate/glutamate 13 mmol/L. The left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded distal to its first diagonal branch for 60 minutes followed by reperfusion for 6 hours. Aspartate and glutamate were administered systemically immediately before reperfusion. The following parameters were measured: infarct size and percent area at risk, global metabolic function, global and regional myocardial function, and tissue parameters of metabolic function. The results clearly showed a significant decrease in infarct size from 60% of the area at risk in control pigs to 37% in both 3 mmol/L and 13 mmol/L amino acid groups. Cardiac output, coronary blood flow, and global oxygen consumption were not significantly affected by the use of amino acids relative to the control group. Global left ventricular mechanical function was also not adversely affected by the infarct and was not altered by amino acid administration. Regional function, however, was significantly decreased by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery in all groups to near 20% and only significantly recovered to 64% in the 13 mmol/L amino acid group. Adenosine triphosphate and acetyl coenzyme A measurements documented significant increases in the 13 mmol/L amino acid group relative to the control group. The conclusions of this study strongly support aspartate/glutamate supplementation for stunned, reperfused myocardium. It is apparent that the effect of amino acid supplementation on glycolysis is directly translated into improved regional function and reduced infarct size. 
Can health education increase uptake of cervical smear testing among Asian women? OBJECTIVES--To determine the effects of three different methods of providing health education on the uptake of cervical smear testing among Asian women, and to evaluate the acceptability of different health education materials. DESIGN--Prospective cohort study over one year of effects of written materials by post, personal visit to give written materials, and personal visit to show a video on the uptake of smear testing. Techniques included a personally administered questionnaire. SETTING--Leicester, a city with a large Asian population. SUBJECTS--737 randomly selected Asian women aged 18 to 52 who were not recorded on the central cytology laboratory's computer as ever having had a cervical smear test. 159 declined to participate or were not contactable. INTERVENTIONS--Women were randomised into four groups: visited and shown a video (263), visited and shown a leaflet and fact sheet (219), posted a leaflet and fact sheet (131), not contacted at all (124). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cervical smear test recorded on computer within four months after intervention. RESULTS--57 (37%, 26% of group) of the women visited and given leaflets and 80 (47%, 30% of group) shown the video attended for cervical smears. Only six (5%) of those who were not contacted and 14 (11%) of those sent leaflets had a smear test during the study. CONCLUSION--Health education interventions increased the uptake of cervical cytology among Asian women in Leicester who had never been tested. Personal visits were most effective irrespective of the health education materials used, but there was some evidence that home viewed videos may be particularly effective in one of the most hard to reach groups: Urdu speaking, Pakistani Moslems. Written translated materials sent by post were ineffective. 
Assessment of myocardial damage in dilated-phase hypertrophic cardiomyopathy by using indium-111-antimyosin Fab myocardial scintigraphy. For the detection of myocardial cell damage, an 111In-antimyosin Fab study was carried out on seven patients (Group A) in the dilated phase of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, seven patients (Group B) with dilated cardiomyopathy, and eight control patients (Group C). Imaging was done 48 hr after intravenous injection of 74 MBq of 111In-antimyosin Fab. Myocardial antimyosin uptake was visually graded as 0, +1, +2 or +3. A score of +2 or +3 was considered positive. The heart/lung ratio of antimyosin uptake (antimyosin index) also was determined. Antimyosin uptake was positive in seven (100%), nine (90%) and no (0%) patients in Groups A, B, and C, respectively. The antimyosin index in Groups A and B was 2.46 +/- 0.49 and 2.04 +/- 0.24, respectively, findings were significantly higher than that in Group C (1.51 +/- 0.13) (p less than 0.01). Positive biopsy findings were noted in only two patients in Group A. Thus, antimyosin uptake was increased in dilated phase hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and dilated cardiomyopathy, which suggests ongoing necrotic changes in these patients. 
Assessment of blood echogenicity as an alternative measure to erythrocyte sedimentation rate. OBJECTIVE--To determine the relation between erythrocyte sedimentation rate and blood echogenicity and whether measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate could be replaced by measurement of blood echogenicity in monitoring acute phase reactions. DESIGN--Simultaneous measurement of echogenicity of flowing blood and erythrocyte sedimentation rate in blood samples and comparison of results. SETTING--A radiological department in a university hospital. SUBJECTS--83 patients with a suspected venous thrombosis and 36 healthy volunteers. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Correlations between the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, packed cell volume, and echogenicity of flowing blood. RESULTS--Blood echogenicity correlated poorly with the packed cell volume, but strongly correlated with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (when the packed cell volume was within reference limits) (correlation coefficient = 0.73). Blood samples with a greatly raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate were highly echogenic. Only one of the 30 samples with an erythrocyte sedimentation rate below 10 mm in first hour had a higher echogenicity than the least echogenic sample of the 19 with a sedimentation rate above 30 mm in first hour. CONCLUSIONS--Echogenicity of flowing blood correlates with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and its measurement may compete with conventional methods for evaluating the long term changes in acute phase reactions. Also, it has the added advantage that non-invasive in vivo measurements of blood echogenicity may become possible. 
Increased MR signal intensity due to cervical myelopathy. Analysis of 29 surgical cases. The cases of 29 patients with cervical myelopathy, who had been treated by anterior spine fusion, were reviewed. The relationship between pre- and postoperative magnetic resonance (MR) images was investigated with special reference to increased signal intensity in the spinal cord on the T2-weighted images and the relevance of this finding to clinical conditions. Preoperatively, there were areas of increased signal intensity in 12 patients whereas there were no areas of increased signal intensity in the other 17. The lesions were not clearly demonstrated on T1-weighted images. The pre- and postoperative clinical condition of the patients whose preoperative MR images showed areas of increased signal intensity in the spinal cord on T2-weighted images was worse than that of the patients who did not have areas of increased signal intensity. Of the 12 patients with regions of increased signal intensity preoperatively, five showed decreased signal intensity postoperatively compared to the preoperative levels and seven had no change. The postoperative recovery of the five patients who showed decreased signal intensity postoperatively was better than that of the seven patients who exhibited no change. The areas of increased MR signal in the spinal cord might be due to edema, cord gliosis, demyelination, or microcavities. 
Chlamydia trachomatis in the fallopian tubes of women without laparoscopic evidence of salpingitis. 23 women with lower abdominal pain and Chlamydia trachomatis in the cervix, urethra, or both sites were studied. Laparoscopy was done with sampling of the endometrium and fallopian tubes for detection of C trachomatis. 11 women had laparoscopic evidence of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID); C trachomatis was detected in the upper genital tract of 8, but not in the upper tract of 5 who had laparoscopy again after treatment. The organism was also found in the upper genital tract of 9 of the 12 women without laparoscopic evidence of PID. Most of the women with abdominal pain or tenderness had tubal or endometrial C trachomatis infection, although only half had laparoscopic evidence of salpingitis. This finding suggests that antibiotic treatment should be given as soon as chlamydial infection is detected in the cervix and that pain does not necessarily point to C trachomatis in the upper genital tract. Laparoscopy may miss important pathogens in the upper genital tract, unless the procedure is complemented with detailed microbiological investigation. 
Left flank retroperitoneal exposure: a technical aid to complex aortic reconstruction. Over the last 5 years an extended left flank retroperitoneal approach was used in 85 of 531 (16%) aortic reconstructions deemed technically complex. Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair was performed in 70 patients (82%), bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease was performed in 11 (13%), and aortic endarterectomy for mesenteric and/or renovascular disease was performed in 4 (5%). Indications for use of this approach included a "hostile" abdomen (43 patients), juxta/suprarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (35), large (greater than 10 cm) abdominal aortic aneurysm (12), extreme obesity (10), associated renal and/or visceral artery stenosis requiring endarterectomy (9), inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm (2), and horseshoe kidney (2). Suprarenal or supraceliac aortic clamping, averaging 31 minutes, was required in 43 patients (50%). Postoperative recovery was rapid (average length of stay, 10.2 days), and morbidity was minimal despite the complex nature of these reconstructions. The perioperative mortality rate in elective operations was 1.2%. This approach facilitated proximal abdominal aortic exposure and anastomosis, especially in large, pararenal aneurysms or in situations unfavorable to a transabdominal approach. Whereas a left flank retroperitoneal approach can be used in most aortic reconstructions, it seems especially suited to those that pose significant technical challenges. 
A randomized study of chemotherapy with procarbazine, vincristine, and lomustine with and without radiation therapy for astrocytoma grades 3 and/or 4. The authors undertook a controlled, prospective, randomized study of 171 patients with supratentorial astrocytoma grades 3 and/or 4 (classified according to Kernohan). All patients were given chemotherapy consisting of procarbazine, vincristine, and lomustine (CCNU) (PVC). Half of the patients received whole-brain irradiation (RT) to a dose of 5800 cGy in the tumor-bearing hemisphere and 5000 cGy in the contralateral hemisphere. After diagnosis of progressive tumor growth, patients received individual treatment. The endpoint of the study was time to progression, but cases were followed until the patients died. Median time to progression (MTP) for the whole randomized population was 21 weeks. Median survival time (MST) was 53 weeks; 18% of patients survived for 2 years or longer. Survival analysis showed that patients less than 50 years of age treated with PVC plus RT had significantly longer MTP (81 weeks) and MST (124 weeks) than all other patients. For patients less than 50 years of age treated with PVC alone, MTP was 21 weeks and MST was 66 weeks. For patients more than 50 years of age treated with PVC plus RT, MTP was 23 weeks and MST was 51 weeks; in the PVC group, MTP was 17 weeks and MST was 39 weeks. Age, Karnofsky index, areas of Grade 2, and absence of extensive necrosis in the tumor were significant prognostic factors in the univariate analyses. Patients less than 50 years of age treated with PVC plus RT had significantly longer survival (P = 0.037) when correcting for these factors in a multi-variate analysis. 
Adverse effect of therapeutic vasoconstrictors in experimental acute pancreatitis. Alpha-adrenergic drugs commonly are used to treat hypotension resulting from severe acute pancreatitis. It was shown previously that although systemic arterial pressure is increased by phenylephrine, pancreatic microcirculatory perfusion is decreased. Because inadequate tissue perfusion may be critical in the progression of edematous pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis, it was hypothesized that vasoconstrictors might be harmful in pancreatitis. Therefore the effect of phenylephrine on cerulein-induced mild pancreatitis were studied. Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 54) were randomly allocated to 6 experimental groups and subjected to the following infusion regimens: (1) cerulein (cae) + phenylephrine (phe), (2) cae + saline (NS), (3) NS + phe, (4) cae + phenoxybenzamine (pbz) + phe, (5) NS + pbz + phe, and (6) NS. Initial and terminal hematocrit, serum amylase activity, and blood ionized calcium concentration were determined. The animals were killed 9 hours after starting the infusion. Macroscopic and histologic changes were scored by a 'blinded' pathologist. Phenylephrine increased the severity of cerulein-induced pancreatitis as manifested by statistically significant adverse changes in serum amylase, hematocrit, ionized calcium, peripancreatitic soap formation, and acinar cell vacuolization. These changes were antagonized by alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade with phenoxybenzamine. It is concluded that phenylephrine is deleterious in acute experimental pancreatitis, the first demonstration of such an effect by a pharmacologic vasoconstrictor, and suggested that microcirculatory changes may be important in the transition of mild to severe pancreatitis. Caution in the use of vasoconstrictor drugs in patients with acute pancreatitis is recommended. 
Doppler echocardiographic transmitral peak early velocity does not directly reflect hemodynamic changes in humans: importance of normalization to mitral stroke volume Doppler echocardiographic transmitral peak early velocity normalized to the time-velocity integral during diastole is equivalent to volumetric peak filling rate normalized to stroke volume. To compare the pathophysiologic validity of normalized and nonnormalized peak early flow velocity, pulsed Doppler echocardiography with simultaneous high fidelity left ventricular pressure measurements was performed in 52 patients with coronary artery disease. Left ventricular loading conditions were changed by intravenous administration of norepinephrine in 15 patients and synthetic atrial natriuretic polypeptide in 15 others. Norepinephrine increased nonnormalized and normalized peak early flow velocities in association with significantly elevated end-diastolic, peak systolic and mitral valve opening pressures and decelerated the time constant of left ventricular isovolumetric pressure decline. Atrial natriuretic polypeptide did not change either nonnormalized or normalized peak early flow velocity, despite significant reductions in end-diastolic, peak systolic and mitral valve opening pressure and an accelerated time constant. Normalized peak early flow velocity showed the highest univariate correlation with long-term change in mitral valve opening pressure (n = 52, r = 0.67, p less than 0.0001). It provided a modest univariate correlation (n = 30, r = 0.74, p less than 0.0001) with immediate change in mitral valve opening pressure during norepinephrine infusion, whereas this correlation was lower (n = 30, r = 0.57, p less than 0.001) during polypeptide infusion. However, multivariate regression analysis relating normalized peak velocity with long- and short-term changes in end-diastolic, peak systolic and mitral valve opening pressures, time constant and constant of left ventricular chamber stiffness improved the correlation coefficients (r = 0.80 to 0.85, all p less than 0.0001). In contrast, neither univariate nor multivariate correlations of nonnormalized velocity with long- and short-term changes in these hemodynamic variables were satisfactory. Thus, nonnormalized peak early flow velocity does not directly reflect underlying hemodynamic changes in humans. Normalization to mitral stroke volume clarifies the dependence of peak early flow velocity on the determinants of early diastolic filling. When left ventricular early diastolic filling is evaluated by Doppler echocardiography, normalized peak early flow velocity should be taken into consideration. 
Incidence of cerebral hemorrhage after treatment with tissue plasminogen activator or streptokinase following embolic stroke in rabbits [corrected] [published erratum appears in Stroke 1991 Feb;22(2):285] We studied thrombolysis in an animal model of embolic stroke to determine the safety of tissue plasminogen activator and streptokinase. We occluded the middle cerebral arteries of 137 rabbits with radiolabeled blood clots and administered tissue plasminogen activator (n = 49), streptokinase (n = 40), or saline (n = 48) at various times after embolization. We assessed the rate of thrombolysis and cerebral hemorrhage 24 hours later. Both drugs were very effective in producing thrombolysis. Compared with saline, streptokinase caused a significant increase in the rate of cerebral hemorrhage (p less than 0.05), but tissue plasminogen activator did not. We conclude that thrombolytic therapy for acute stroke should be safer with tissue plasminogen activator than with streptokinase. 
Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study. Final results BACKGROUND. Atrial fibrillation in the absence of rheumatic valvular disease is associated with a fivefold to sevenfold increased risk of ischemic stroke. METHODS AND MAIN RESULTS. The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study, a multicenter, randomized trial, compared 325 mg/day aspirin (double-blind) or warfarin with placebo for prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism (primary events), and included 1,330 inpatients and outpatients with constant or intermittent atrial fibrillation. During a mean follow-up of 1.3 years, the rate of primary events in patients assigned to placebo was 6.3% per year and was reduced by 42% in those assigned to aspirin (3.6% per year; p = 0.02; 95% confidence interval, 9-63%). In the subgroup of warfarin-eligible patients (most less than 76 years old), warfarin dose-adjusted to prolong prothrombin time to 1.3-fold to 1.8-fold that of control reduced the risk of primary events by 67% (warfarin versus placebo, 2.3% versus 7.4% per year; p = 0.01; 95% confidence interval, 27-85%). Primary events or death were reduced 58% (p = 0.01) by warfarin and 32% (p = 0.02) by aspirin. The risk of significant bleeding was 1.5%, 1.4%, and 1.6% per year in patients assigned to warfarin, aspirin, and placebo, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. Aspirin and warfarin are both effective in reducing ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation. Because warfarin-eligible patients composed a subset of all aspirin-eligible patients, the magnitude of reduction in events by warfarin versus aspirin cannot be compared. Too few events occurred in warfarin-eligible patients to directly assess the relative benefit of aspirin compared with warfarin, and the trial is continuing to address this issue. Patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation who can safely take either aspirin or warfarin should receive prophylactic antithrombotic therapy to reduce the risk of stroke. 
Comparison of disease severity scoring systems in septic shock. OBJECTIVE: To compare six disease severity scoring systems as predictors of mortality in septic shock when used in the first 24 hrs of diagnosis. The six scoring systems tested were: Multiorgan Failure; the Acute Organ System Failure; the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II); the Multisystem Organ Failure scoring system; the Mortality Prediction Model; and the grading of sepsis. DESIGN: Retrospective, case series, consecutive sample. SETTING: Adult ICUs of three teaching hospitals. PATIENTS: Seventy-one patients from 12 to 84 yrs, fulfilling specific criteria for the diagnosis of septic shock, who were admitted to the ICU during 15 consecutive months. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The Multiorgan Failure scoring system, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II), and Acute Organ System Failure scoring system were found, with our modifications, to be statistically significant predictors of mortality. Predictive data for these three scoring systems were as follows: Multiorgan Failure scoring system p = .008, mean number of points of survivors 5.2 +/- 1.5 (SD), mean number of points of nonsurvivors 6.3 +/- 1.5; APACHE II p = .013, mean number of points of survivors 21.1 +/- 5.9, mean number of points of nonsurvivors 24.6 +/- 6.0; and Acute Organ System Failure scoring system p = .011. None of the other three scoring systems showed significant predictive ability: Multisystem Organ Failure scoring system p = .072, Mortality Prediction Model p = 0.091, and the grading of sepsis p = .27. There was a significant (p = .004) difference in the survival rate of the three hospitals. CONCLUSION: The Multiorgan Failure scoring system, APACHE II, and the Acute Organ System Failure scoring system, with minor modifications, were found to be useful prognostic tools for patients with septic shock and allowed us to compare the performance and treatment programs of different ICUs. 
Trebling of the incidence of testicular cancer in victoria, Australia (1950-1985). Changes in the incidence of testicular cancer in Victoria, Australia were studied from 1950 to 1985. Cases from the period 1950 to 1978 were derived from many sources (1116 cases). Emphasis was placed on diagnostic reliability; 97% of cases were confirmed histologically, and of these, 86% were reviewed at the Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute. For the years 1982 to 1985, Victorian Cancer Registry data were used. The incidence rose by a factor of 2.9 from 1.44 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.15 to 1.73) per 100,000 in 1950 to 1954 to 4.16 (95% CI, 3.73 to 4.59) per 100,000 in 1982 to 1985. Between 1950 to 1954 and 1965 to 1969, there was a sharp rise, followed by a plateau or dip, then a further rise. Among seminomas, the rates rose in most adult age groups, whereas among nonseminomas, the rise was concentrated in younger age groups. There was a significant trend to earlier age of occurrence among nonseminomas (P = 0.0004) but not among seminomas (P = 0.89). Cohort analysis revealed a trend toward increasing rates for both seminomas and nonseminomas, and confirmed the trend toward earlier age of onset for nonseminomas. Disproportionate increases were observed for the 1915 to 1924 cohort of seminomas and the 1930 to 1939 cohort of nonseminomas. Analysis of available data from other Australian states indicated comparable rising incidence in New South Wales, Tasmania, and Western Australia. 
Valvular heart disease. A correctable cause of congestive heart failure. Surgical repair of mitral, aortic, and tricuspid valves and balloon valvuloplasty for mitral stenosis are being done more and more often. These complex procedures require accurate and high-quality imaging techniques to guide the physician in decision making before surgery and in assessment of success during surgery. Dr Currie describes the use of echocardiography in diagnosis and management of patients with various forms of valvular heart disease. 
Thyroid diseases after treatment of Hodgkin's disease. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Thyroid disease, especially hypothyroidism, is common in patients with Hodgkin's disease who have been treated with irradiation. We reviewed the records of 1787 patients (740 women and 1047 men) with Hodgkin's disease who were treated with radiation therapy alone (810 patients), radiation and chemotherapy (920 patients), or chemotherapy alone (57 patients) at Stanford University between 1961 and 1989. Among these patients, 1533 were alive at the last follow-up, and 254 had died of causes other than Hodgkin's disease. (Four other patients were excluded from the analysis because they had undergone thyroidectomy before treatment for Hodgkin's disease. The thyroid was irradiated in 1677 patients. Follow-up averaged 9.9 years. RESULTS. A total of 573 patients had clinical or biochemical evidence of thyroid disease. Among the 1677 patients whose thyroid was irradiated, the actuarial risk of thyroid disease 20 years after treatment was 52 percent, and it was 67 percent at 26 years. Hypothyroidism was found in 513 patients. A total of 486 patients received thyroxine therapy for elevated serum thyrotropin concentrations and either low free thyroxine (208 patients) or normal free thyroxine values (278 patients); 27 had transient elevations of the serum thyrotropin level that were not treated. Graves' hyperthyroidism developed in 30 patients (2 of whom had not undergone thyroid irradiation), and ophthalmopathy developed in 17 of these patients. Ophthalmopathy developed in four other patients with Graves' disease during a period of hypothyroidism (n = 3) or euthyroidism (n = 1). The risk of Graves' disease was 7.2 to 20.4 times that for normal subjects. Silent thyroiditis with thyrotoxicosis developed in six patients. Forty-four patients were found to have single or multiple thyroid nodules, 26 of whom underwent thyroidectomy. Six of the 44 had papillary or follicular cancers. Among the patients who did not undergo operation, 12 had small functioning nodules, 4 had cysts, and 2 had multinodular goiters. The actuarial risk of thyroid cancer was 1.7 percent. The risk of thyroid cancer was 15.6 times the expected risk. CONCLUSIONS. High risks of thyroid disease persist more than 25 years after patients have received radiation therapy for Hodgkin's disease, reinforcing the need for continued clinical and biochemical evaluation. Prolonged follow-up confirms an elevated risk of thyroid cancer and Graves' disease as well as hypothyroidism in these patients. 
Detection and characterization of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) associated T-cell neoplasms in an HTLV-I nonendemic region by polymerase chain reaction. Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) associated adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) occurs endemically in southwestern Japan, the Caribbean, and West Africa, but occurs sporadically in most of the rest of the world. However, because ATLL and non-HTLV-I associated T-cell neoplasms share overlapping clinicopathologic features, the prevalence of ATLL in nonendemic regions is unknown. In this study, 75 T-cell neoplasms randomly procured from the metropolitan New York City area were examined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the presence of integrated HTLV-I proviral sequences. HTLV-I genomic sequences were detected by PCR in 6 of the 75 cases (8%); this result was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. The clinicopathologic features of the HTLV-I positive and HTLV-I negative T-cell neoplasms were then compared. Although the clinicopathologic features of patients from these two groups overlapped, some findings were more commonly associated with HTLV-I positive neoplasms. Five of the six patients with HTLV-I positive neoplasms were from HTLV-I endemic areas, five were black, five were women, and five were less than 45 years of age, while the majority of the patients with HTLV-I negative T-cell malignancies were elderly white men. The incidence of hypercalcemia and lytic bone lesions was significantly more common among patients with HTLV-I positive T-cell neoplasms (P less than .001 and P = .004, respectively). The immunophenotypes of the HTLV-I positive and negative tumors were similar; however, all HTLV-I positive neoplasms were CD7 negative (P less than .001). In summary, our findings: (1) demonstrate the special clinicopathologic and immunophenotypic features of HTLV-I positive T-cell neoplasms, (2) suggest that most of the rare cases of HTLV-I-associated T-cell neoplasms occurring in HTLV-I nonendemic areas are actually endemic cases; and (3) that PCR is a sensitive, clinically useful technique for identifying HTLV-I associated T-cell neoplasms. 
Progress of fibrinolysis during tumor necrosis factor infusions in humans. Concomitant increase in tissue-type plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1, and fibrin(ogen) degradation products. Several investigators have reported that tumor necrosis factor (TNF) can alter the production of plasminogen activator type-1 (PAI-1) and plasminogen activators (PAs) by endothelial cells in vitro. We have examined the in vivo effects of recombinant human TNF administration on fibrinolysis as assessed by parameters in plasma during a 24-hour period of continuous TNF infusion to 17 cancer patients with active disease. The plasma levels of PAI activity increased sevenfold after 3 and 24 hours of TNF infusion. This was the result of an increase of PAI-1 antigen; PAI-2 antigen was not detectable. Plasma concentrations of tissue-type PA (t-PA) antigen increased twofold to fivefold after 3 and 24 hours of TNF infusion, whereas urokinase-type PA antigen levels in plasma remained unaltered. After 3 hours of TNF infusion the plasma levels of alpha 2-antiplasmin were slightly decreased, 5% on average, suggesting that fibrinolysis continued. After 24 hours of TNF infusion a highly significant increase in fibrin- plus fibrinogen-degradation products, and separately of fibrin degradation products and fibrinogen degradation products, was found. This indicates that fibrinolysis persisted, at least partly, in the presence of high levels of PAI activity. Whereas PAI-1 production increased, t-PA production by human endothelial cells in vitro remains unaltered or even decreases on TNF addition. It has been shown previously that TNF infusion in our patients results in thrombin and fibrin generation. Therefore, it is possible that thrombin, not TNF, is the actual stimulus for t-PA production in our patients. We speculate that fibrin is formed during TNF infusions and that plasmin is generated by t-PA action immediately on the initial formation of (soluble) fibrin molecules. Such a process may explain the generation of degradation products of both fibrin and fibrinogen during infusion of TNF in patients. 
Gastric emptying in human disease states. The application of new radioisotope methods in external in vivo scanning has increased our knowledge of how disease and treatment can effect gastric emptying (GE). Solids leave the stomach more slowly than liquids, and conditions causing gastroparesis affect solids before liquids. Gastric mucosal abnormalities and their treatment can affect GE. Diseases of the gastric musculature, including the inflammatory and endocrine myopathies, muscular dystrophies, and infiltrative disorders, can result in significant gastroparesis. Acute and chronic neuropathy may both affect gastric emptying. The latter neuropathies are now the subject of intense investigation with new prokinetic drugs. Finally, abnormal GE may be a major clinical feature of certain severe psychiatric disorders. 
Adrenal atrophy at autopsy in two asthmatic children. In two children dying in status asthmaticus, adrenocortical atrophy was demonstrable at autopsy. Both children had been treated since infancy with pulsed steroidal inhalers, short courses of oral or parenteral steroids, and steroidal skin preparations (for associated eczema). Adrenocortical atrophy has not been described previously in this clinical context. The increasing administration of steroids to asthmatic children may lead to the production of overt--or more frequently, subclinical--atrophy of the adrenal cortices with important consequences to mortality and morbidity. 
Recurrent spontaneous intrahepatic hemorrhage from peliosis hepatis. Peliosis hepatis is a rare and highly lethal liver lesion in which numerous blood-filled cavities or cystic spaces are dispersed throughout the hepatic parenchyma. The cause is unknown, although the condition is associated with several disease states and medications. Patients may present with hemorrhage, liver failure, the hepatorenal syndrome, cholestasis, or portal hypertension. We treated a patient who survived two separate hemorrhages from peliosis hepatis. The surgical intervention used, hepatic dearterialization, has allowed this patient to remain asymptomatic for 5 years. 
Severe late postsplenectomy infection. In all, 1490 patients underwent splenectomy in Western Australia between 1971 and 1983, giving 7825 person years exposure. Thirty-three patients developed severe late postsplenectomy infection (septicaemia, meningitis or pneumococcal pneumonia requiring hospitalization) and three developed overwhelming postsplenectomy infection. The incidence and mortality rates of severe late postsplenectomy infection were 0.42 and 0.08 per 100 person years exposure respectively and for overwhelming postsplenectomy infection the incidence and mortality rates were 0.04 per 100 person years exposure. There were 628 splenectomies after trauma, giving 3922 person years exposure. Eight patients developed severe late postsplenectomy infection of whom one had overwhelming postsplenectomy infection. Following trauma, the incidence of severe late postsplenectomy infection was 0.21 per 100 person years exposure, with the incidence and mortality rates of overwhelming postsplenectomy infection being 0.03 per 100 person years exposure. Patients undergoing splenectomy have a 12.6-fold increased risk of developing late septicaemia compared with the general population. Splenectomy following trauma gives an 8.6-fold increased risk of late septicaemia. The majority of severe late postsplenectomy infections did not occur within the first 2 years and 42 per cent of severe late postsplenectomy infections occurred greater than 5 years after splenectomy. The low incidence of severe late postsplenectomy infection and overwhelming postsplenectomy infection makes statistical evaluation of the effectiveness of prophylactic antibiotics, vaccination and splenic repair most difficult. 
Cystic adrenal masses in the neonate associated with hemihypertrophy and the relation to the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. We report 2 cases of unilateral, multilocular, cystic adrenal masses in neonates. Both patients demonstrated somatic hemihypertrophy, which is considered to have the same implications as the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome in terms of tumor risk. Pathological examination showed multiple, adrenal cysts without evidence of tumor or routine adrenal hemorrhage. This finding appears to represent a previously unreported association between the spectrum of hemihypertrophy/Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and benign cystic adrenal disease. 
FK 506 reverses acute graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in rats. Severe graft-versus-host disease was induced by transplantation of ACI rat bone marrow and spleen cells into irradiated Lewis rat recipients. Treatment with FK 506 or cyclosporine A (CsA) was started after clinical and histologic evidence of acute GVHD was present. A 14-day course of FK 506 at 1.0 mg/kg/day could rescue 100% of the animals suffering from GVHD. In contrast only one half of the animals treated with CsA at a high dose of 25 mg/kg/day recovered. After cessation of immunosuppressive therapy, FK 506-treated animals displayed a marked prolonged disease-free interval as compared to CsA-treated bone marrow recipients. Recurrence of the disease in these animals could be prevented when FK 506 treatment was continued after the induction period with a low maintenance dose of 0.1 mg/kg/day every other day. 
Local failure after definitive radiation or surgical therapy for carcinoma of the prostate and options for prevention and therapy. The incidence of local failure and its relation to distant failure following definitive therapy of carcinoma of the prostate is discussed. Local failure may arise from incomplete resection, tumor spillage, clones of radioresistant cells, development of new tumors in an organ left in situ, or inadequate treatment portals. The authors review the various measures used as prophylaxis or treatment of local failure in relation to clinical and pathologic stage. 
Oral soft tissues in hereditary epidermolysis bullosa. Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is associated with diverse oral manifestations, which can potentially involve both hard and soft tissues, depending on the specific EB subtype. This study determined the frequency and extent of oral soft tissue involvement in the inherited forms of EB. Examination of 216 affected persons revealed significant differences in the oral soft tissue involvement among the various types of EB. The frequency of oral involvement was greater in the dominant dystrophic (81.1%) and simplex (generalized, 58.6%; localized, 34.7%) types than previously reported. The marked frequency of oral blistering was similar in both major subtypes of junctional (Herlitz, 83.3%; non-Herlitz, 91.6%) and recessive dystrophic EB (generalized, 100%; localized, 92.3%). Obliteration of the oral vestibule, ankyloglossia, and microstomia were consistent findings in generalized recessive dystrophic EB. Oral milia were present in all major EB categories, most prevalently in the dystrophic forms, but were not seen in all the distinct EB subtypes. These findings indicate that although there are no pathognomonic intraoral soft tissue manifestations in the various forms of inherited EB, there are predictable patterns of involvement associated with specific subtypes of this disease. Understanding the oral involvement associated with EB may aid clinicians in the development of more advanced therapeutic approaches that are compatible with and directed at the unique characteristics of each EB subtype. 
Chronic cluster headache associated with a vertebral artery aneurysm. This is a report of a patient with chronic cluster headache-like pain of 12 years duration. Investigation revealed an aneurysm at the junction of the vertebral and posterior inferior cerebellar arteries and after removal the patient experienced resolution of his cluster headache. The headache and aneurysm were both right sided suggesting a possible relationship. 
Fatal rupture of the intracranial carotid artery during transluminal angioplasty for vasospasm induced by subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report. The authors report the clinical course, radiographic findings, and gross and microscopic pathology of a patient with fatal rupture of the supraclinoid segment of the left internal carotid artery during transluminal angioplasty for subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced vasospasm. The rupture most likely resulted from a small portion of aneurysm neck which remained unclipped, thereby leaving an area of structural weakness in the arterial wall at the site of clipping. The area of structural weakness predisposed the artery to rupture upon the addition of transmural pressure induced by balloon inflation during transluminal angioplasty. Caution is advised when performing transluminal angioplasty in the region of aneurysm clipping since the vessel lumen "recreated" during the clipping procedure may contain some residual and structurally incomplete aneurysm neck in the vessel wall. 
Postresection autopsy findings in patients with cancer of the main hepatic duct junction. Extensive resection of the bile ducts combined with hepatic resection is the procedure of choice for carcinoma of the main hepatic duct junction. Currently this procedure is done without great risk, and increasing long-term survival is now the issue. For this purpose, it is necessary to elucidate the biologic properties of the cancer to take reasonable measures. Autopsy findings of patients who died of recurrence may offer a reliable guide. Autopsy findings were studied in 14 patients: eight who had undergone curative resection and six who had received noncurative resection. Cancer recurred at the liver hilum with invasion into adjacent organs. Peritoneal dissemination and lymph node metastases were infrequent. These were common findings in both curative and noncurative resection groups. Cancer cells in the connective tissue of the hepatoduodenal ligament may play a major role in recurrence. 
Infectious crystalline keratopathy occurring in an eye subsequent to glaucoma filtering surgery with postoperative subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil. We present a case of infectious crystalline keratopathy occurring after 5-fluorouracil filtering surgery. The patient had discrete, branching, white crystalline lesions in the anterior corneal stroma. Cultures grew Streptococcus viridans, and gram-positive cocci were demonstrated in corneal tissue biopsy specimens. Toxic and immunosuppressive properties of 5-fluorouracil may have participated in the pathogenesis of the infectious crystalline keratitis. 
Noncardiac chest pain in patients with heart disease. This is a retrospective study of cardiac patients with noncardiac chest pain referred for evaluation of esophageal motility. Sixty-eight patients with heart disease were compared with 210 patients without heart disease according to findings from symptom questionnaires and a psychologic test (Brief Symptom Inventory). More than 70% of each group qualified for an anxiety or depressive diagnosis on the symptom questionnaire. These diagnoses were supported by significant elevations of scores on the anxiety and depression scales of the Brief Symptom Inventory. Male gender and a diagnosis of panic disorder occurred significantly more often in the patients with heart disease. "Stress" was cited as the cause of illness in about half the sample, but this led to less than satisfactory rates of psychiatric evaluation or pharmacotherapy. This is of particular concern for the cardiac patients because of the known adverse effect of anxiety and depression in those with heart disease. 
t(11;14) (q13;q32) in B-cell lymphomas (intermediately differentiated lymphocytic and follicular). A report of four cases. The association of recurrent chromosomal abnormalities with certain types of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs) provides important clues to their classification and pathogenesis. The t(11;14), an uncommon abnormality, has been reported in a variety of B-cell lymphomas, including the intermediately differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma (IDLL). The authors report here the histologic, immunophenotypic, and cytogenetic findings in four additional patients with such translocation. They represent 8% of 51 patients with NHL studied by cytogenetics in a provincial hospital of Western mainland Japan. Three of the patients had IDLL and one a follicular lymphoma of large cell type. These findings strengthen the association between t(11;14) and IDLL. Furthermore, the occurrence of t(11;14) in a follicular lymphoma, as the sole abnormality, along with histogenetic considerations, suggests the possible existence of a rarer subset of follicular lymphoma, not associated with the t(14;18) and histogenetically related to IDLL. 
Bone scan as a stratification variable in advanced prostate cancer. The serial technetium 99 (99Tc) bone scans of 76 patients with Stage D-2 prostate cancers were reviewed. Sites of metastases in skeletal areas in decreasing order were vertebrae, ribs, pelvis, long bones, and skull. Patients with one or two involved skeletal areas had a significantly longer progression-free interval and survival time than patients with three or more bony areas of uptake. Bone scans might be used as a stratification variable in future prospective clinical trials of Stage D-2 prostate cancer. 
Radionuclide angiography in the management of asymptomatic aortic regurgitation. Left ventricular systolic function is an important determinant of long-term prognosis in patients with chronic aortic regurgitation. In patients undergoing aortic valve replacement, those with preoperative left ventricular dysfunction have a greater risk of postoperative congestive heart failure and death than do those in whom preoperative left ventricular systolic function is normal. However, patients with preoperative left ventricular dysfunction are not a homogeneous group but may be further stratified according to risk on the basis of the severity of symptoms, exercise intolerance, and temporal duration of left ventricular dysfunction. Therefore, asymptomatic patients with reproducible and definite evidence of impaired left ventricular function should undergo operation without waiting for the development of symptoms or more severe left ventricular dysfunction. In addition, among asymptomatic patients with normal systolic function, indexes of left ventricular function are also helpful, especially when measured serially, in predicting the development of symptoms and the need for valve replacement surgery over the course of the next 5 to 10 years. Noninvasive imaging techniques should play a major role in this evaluation, and radionuclide angiography is ideally suited for the quantitative evaluation of systolic function in the volume-overloaded left ventricle. Although the prognostic value of left ventricular ejection fraction at rest is well established, ejection fraction during exercise has little value once age and left ventricular function at rest are accounted for and is of minor importance in formulating patient management decisions. 
HBV-DNA-related hepatocellular carcinoma occurring in childhood. Report of three cases. In a series of 325 HBV chronically infected children observed over an 18-year period, three developed HCC. These three children were born in southern Italy, a region characterized by a high endemic HBV infection rate; each had been infected perinatally, developed an acute hepatitis, and became a chronic carrier. Two of the three with cirrhosis were HBsAg positive at the time their HCC was detected. The remaining case had seroconverted to HBsAb but HBV-DNA integration could be demonstrated in the absence of cirrhosis; moreover HBV antigens were not expressed in the tissue of this case. The interval between HBV infection and HCC appearance in these three cases ranged from six to 11 years. A similarity between these three Italian cases and the majority of HCC arising in chronically infected children in the Far East is noted. 
Mucinous pancreatic tumors: ERCP findings Mucin-producing tumors of the pancreas are rare and difficult to diagnose neoplasms. To further characterize the nature of these lesions, four such cases are described here in which the diagnosis was suspected at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography by the presence of ampullary or intraductal mucus. In one patient, pancreatoscopy directly visualized the tumor. Ultrasound and computed tomography failed to suggest the presence of a neoplasm in the majority of these cases, but endoscopic ultrasound was performed in one and correctly identified the multi-cystic tumor. A high incidence of acute pancreatitis was seen in these cases and was felt to be secondary to intermittent ductal obstruction by mucus. The characteristic appearance of intra-ductal mucus provides an important clue to the presence of this type of pancreatic neoplasia. 
Appendicitis: prospective evaluation with high-resolution CT. Computed tomography (CT) was used to prospectively evaluate 100 patients with clinical indications for acute appendicitis. Examinations were performed with the terminal ileum and cecum filled with contrast material. Acute appendicitis was diagnosed when an abnormal appendix or inflammatory changes plus an appendicolith were detected. Failure to visualize an abnormal appendix or appendicolith in the presence of pericecal inflammatory changes was considered suspicious but nonspecific. CT results were correlated with surgical and pathologic results (74 patients) and other radiologic and clinical findings (26 patients). CT helped to diagnose appendicitis (64 patients) and nonspecific right lower quadrant inflammation (five patients) and to rule out appendicitis (31 patients). CT had a 98% sensitivity, an 83% specificity, and a 93% accuracy. In 17 of 31 patients without CT evidence of appendicitis, other conditions explaining their symptoms were detected. When the clinical diagnosis is in doubt, CT can be used successfully to evaluate patients with acute appendicitis. 
Combined portal vein and liver resection for carcinoma of the biliary tract. Twenty-nine patients with advanced carcinoma of the bile duct or gallbladder underwent combined portal vein and liver resection. Segmental excision of the portal vein was performed in 16 cases and wedge resection of the vessel wall in 13. The operative mortality rate was 17 per cent. The median survival for the 24 patients who left hospital was 19.8 months. Actuarial survival rates at 1, 3 and 5 years for all 29 patients were 48 per cent, 29 per cent, and 6 per cent respectively, whereas the median survival for 46 patients with unresectable carcinoma was 3 months and the 1 and 3-year actuarial survival rates were 13 per cent and zero respectively. This difference in survival times between patients undergoing hepatectomy with portal vein resection and those with unresectable carcinoma were statistically significant (P less than 0.01). Combined portal vein and liver resection is recommended as a reasonable surgical approach in selected patients with advanced carcinoma of the biliary tract. 
The effect of nociceptive stimulation on the changes in hemodynamics and oxygen transport induced by hemorrhage in anesthetized pigs. The effects of somatic nociceptive afferent stimulation on aspects of cardiac function and oxygen transport were examined in a model of hemorrhage in anesthetized pigs. The brachial nerves were stimulated (BNS) alternately to obtain a rise in heart rate of 18% and in mean arterial pressure of 17%. This stimulation was started 75 minutes before the start of hemorrhage and maintained throughout and after the withdrawal of blood. The animals were bled at a rate of 0.75 ml/min.kg until a total of 30 ml/kg had been removed. At the end of hemorrhage the reductions in cardiac index (CI), stroke volume (SV), and left ventricular stroke work (LVSW) were greater in the BNS group compared with controls. The nociceptive stimulation also elicited greater reductions in oxygen delivery (DO2I) and oxygen consumption (VO2) and a greater rise in the arterial plasma lactate concentration. Thus it seems that nociceptive stimulation exacerbates the changes in systemic oxygen transport and cardiac function induced by hemorrhage. 
Collagen stability and collagenolytic activity in the normal and aneurysmal human abdominal aorta. Two issues were addressed in this study. The first was whether a bona fide collagenase exists within the wall of the aorta. The second was whether the activity of this putative collagenase is greater in aneurysmal tissue. No collagenase could be extracted from the wall of the aorta under nondenaturing conditions. However, hydroxyproline was liberated from tissue samples allowed to autolyze at neutral pH under reaction conditions favoring the activity of collagenase. Such an activity was probably enzymic as it occurred in a time- and temperature-dependent fashion and was suppressed by chelators. In normal and stenotic tissue, activity was increased by adding aminophenylmercuric acetate, an activator of latent collagenase. Examination of the blanks revealed that the collagen of aneurysmal aorta was more soluble than normal. Furthermore, its digestion kinetics differed in a way that suggested that aneurysmal aorta possessed a labile component that was absent from normal tissue. Although the activity of the putative aortic collagenase was higher than normal in the aneurysmal tissue, our assays do not distinguish between changes in the amount or activity of the enzyme and alterations in the collagen. 
Successful use of topical vitamin E solution in the treatment of nail changes in yellow nail syndrome. A double-blind controlled study was performed on a patient with long-standing yellow nail syndrome to investigate the potential beneficial role of topical vitamin E solution for the nail changes seen in this disorder. Three nails received active solution containing DL-alpha-tocopherol in dimethyl sulfoxide; three nails received dimethyl sulfoxide only; and the remainder were untreated. After 6 months of therapy, the three nails treated with active solution showed marked clinical improvement and a corresponding increase in nail growth rates. Dimethyl sulfoxide alone produced a small increase in nail growth rate and slight clinical improvement. Active solution was then applied to all of the nails for a further 6 months, resulting in clinical improvement and increased nail growth rates in the remaining nails. These beneficial effects require further study. 
CD4+ lymphocyte subsets in the cerebrospinal fluid of multiple sclerosis and non-inflammatory neurological diseases. We studied paired cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and peripheral blood (PB) samples from 18 inactive multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and 10 with non-inflammatory neurological diseases. By means of a dual-colour cytofluorimetric micromethod we were able to count 1500 cells on average in each CSF sample. We found a significant reduction of CD45RA+ and CD4+CD45RA+ cells in the CSF of MS patients. Similarly, CD45RA+ and CD4+CD45RA+ CSF/PB ratios were lower compared with controls. The reduction of suppressor-inducer T-cells did not correlate with CD8+ cell levels in the CSF. The CD4+ subset ratio (CD4+CD45RA-/CD4+CD45RA+) was significantly increased in the CSF of MS patients. Our data suggest that the reduction of CD4+CD45RA+ cells in the PB is not due to a segregation of such cells in the CSF. Conversely, CSF changes reflect changes in the PB similar to these found for other T-cell subsets. 
A primate model of macular cyst. Perfluoropropane (C3F8) was injected into nine eyes of six cynomolgus monkeys. In all nine eyes, macular changes consistent with the development of a macular cyst were noted within 3 months after injection. On fluorescein angiography, there was no evidence of retinal vascular leakage associated with the macular cysts. Histopathologic evaluation of six eyes demonstrated microcystic changes throughout the perifoveal inner nuclear layer. These coalesced into larger cystic spaces in the outer plexiform layer of the central macula. These macular changes are previously unreported in patients or monkeys undergoing intravitreal injection of expansile gases. This model for macular cysts may be helpful in evaluating the pathogenesis and role of interventional strategies in patients with cystoid macular edema. 
Update: Salmonella enteritidis infections and shell eggs--United States, 1990. From January through October 1990, state health departments reported 49 outbreaks of Salmonella enteritidis (SE) in the United States to CDC. This report summarizes three SE outbreaks in 1990 that were associated with shell eggs. 
Symptomatic xanthogranuloma of choroid plexus with unilateral hydrocephalus. Case report. Xanthogranulomas involving the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles are generally asymptomatic lesions. The case is reported of a 50-year-old man in whom a xanthogranuloma of the choroid plexus had occluded the left trigone, causing unilateral hydrocephalus of the left temporal horn and neurological symptoms. A review of the literature shows that xanthogranulomas of the glomus of the lateral ventricles differ from the xanthomatous cystic lesions of the third ventricle, which are probably akin to colloid cysts. 
Orthotopic liver transplantation for incurable alveolar echinococcosis of the liver: report of 17 cases. Between 1986 and 1989, orthotopic liver transplantations were performed in our unit for 17 patients with incurable alveolar echinococcosis. Ten patients had hilar involvement (group I), and seven patients had posterior localization (five of them had chronic Budd-Chiari syndrome) (group II). The delay between diagnosis and the orthotopic liver transplantation was more than 48 mo in group Ia (six patients), less than 24 mo in group Ib (four patients) and less than 48 mo in group II. Previous operations were more common in group Ia than in group Ib and II. Five patients have died-four in group I and one in group II. The actuarial survival rate at 15 mo was 75%. Early reoperations were frequent (69%), mainly caused by rebleeding. Bacterial and fungal infections occurred only in group Ia (four cases) and group II (three cases). In eight patients (palliative group), residual foci of infected nonhepatic tissue occurred after surgery. The titer of specific antibodies decreased during the first 3 mo in all the patients but one. In patients with radical liver transplantation, the complete disappearance of specific antibodies occurred within 2 yr in four cases. In the remaining five patients, specific antibodies remained detectable, but no evidence of recurrence has been obtained up to now. In the palliative group, a peak of specific IgM occurred at 3 mo; an increase of specific IgG was observed later. The growth of residual parasitic foci was relatively slow, and all these patients remained asymptomatic with a mean follow-up of 19 mo. We conclude that orthotopic liver transplantation is feasible in incurable alveolar echinococcosis and could be proposed without delay to patients with parasitic Budd-Chiari syndrome or complicated secondary biliary cirrhosis. In the other cases, the best time to perform an orthotopic liver transplantation is more difficult to determine. Nevertheless, in the perspective of an orthotopic liver transplantation, the management of these patients has to change, and repetitive laparotomies for palliative surgical procedures have to be replaced by interventional radiology. 
Cavitary lesions close to heart valve rings. A necropsy study of 13 cases. Necropsy reports of 13 patients with 15 cavitary lesions situated close aortic or mitral valve rings were studied in patients who ranged in age from 1 month to 57 (mean 24.9) years; 10 patients were male. Infective endocarditis occurred in 7 patients, rheumatic heart disease in 4, congenital heart diseases in 4, previous valve replacement in 4, and syphilis in 1 patient. Diameters of the cavitary lesions ranged between 1.2 and 10.5 cm; the aortic valve ring was involved in 11 patients; cavitary thrombosis occurred in 2 cases; the orifice communicating the cardiac chamber with the cavitary lesions was situated above the aortic leaflet in 5 lesions, below the aortic leaflet in 4 lesions, and above and below the aortic leaflets in 3 lesions. The mitral valve ring was involved in 3 lesions. Thus, different etiologies may be involved in the pathogenesis of these lesions; positions of the lesion may vary in relation to the valve ring, and the lesions may be a morphological expression of the fragility of the fibrous skeleton of the heart. 
Foscarnet in the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection of the esophagus and colon in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Foscarnet, administered via a central line, was used for the treatment of 18 episodes of cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophageal ulceration in 15 patients, and in the treatment of 27 episodes of CMV colitis in 22 patients. In 15 of the 18 episodes of the esophageal disease, there was complete loss of symptoms within 2 wk. Only three of the 15 patients responding to foscarnet therapy had a relapse of their esophageal disease. Two of these patients were successfully retreated with foscarnet. Of the 22 patients receiving foscarnet for CMV colitis, four died during foscarnet therapy. Of the 18 patients completing the course of treatment with foscarnet for first-episode CMV colitis, 11 remitted completely and six had a partial remission. All patients with partial remission had a second pathogen responsible for the continuation of their diarrhea. Only one patient completing a course of foscarnet failed to respond microscopically to treatment. Three patients experienced relapse of their CMV colitis, two of whom responded to further courses of foscarnet. Foscarnet is an effective therapy for CMV disease of the gastrointestinal tract, with rapid resolution of clinical symptoms, long-term remission of esophageal disease, and shorter disease-free periods for CMV colitis. 
Histologic characteristics of carotid artery plaque. Carotid plaque characteristics associated with the production of symptoms were identified with quantification of carotid plaque constituents in high-grade stenotic asymptomatic (n = 8) and symptomatic (n = 44) plaques. Asymptomatic plaques contained significantly more fibrous/collagen material (88%) than symptomatic plaques (66%) (p less than 0.05). Hemorrhage constituted 2% and 1% of asymptomatic and symptomatic plaques, respectively. The predominant nonfibrous material was a pink amorphous material mixed with cholesterol, which composed 7% of asymptomatic and 27% of symptomatic plaques (p less than 0.05). No relationship was found between plaque composition and the number of ipsilateral ischemic neurologic events, nor was there evidence of a healing process. B-mode ultrasound scanning had a sensitivity of 94% in identifying plaque with greater than 80% fibrous content. We believe that plaque composition may be a useful discriminating factor in selecting asymptomatic patients for carotid endarterectomy. 
Resolution of Cryptosporidium infection in an AIDS patient after improvement of nutritional and immune status with octreotide. An AIDS patient with severe large volume diarrhea and malnutrition due to cryptosporidial infection is presented. The patient, who was not receiving zidovudine, was treated with octreotide with resolution of diarrhea leading to improvement in nutritional status, immune functions, and subsequently, resolution of the Cryptosporidium infection. This case points out the need for adequate nutrition in AIDS patients and highlights the relationship of nutrition and the immune system. 
The value of plain radiography in establishing the diagnosis of gastric lesions. Appreciation for the diagnostic value of plain (noncontrast) radiography of the gastrointestinal tract appears to have diminished with the advent of more sophisticated imaging techniques. A case in which scrutiny of the gastric air pattern on plain abdominal films suggested the underlying presence of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome emphasizes the potential diagnostic value of plain radiography of the abdomen for gastric disorders. 
In vitro radiation resistance among cell lines established from patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Twenty-five squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cell lines from 20 patients with head and neck cancer were assessed for radiosensitivity in vitro using a 96-well plate assay. Four non-SCC lines were also tested. Radiation sensitivity of individual cell lines was compared using the area under the survival curve (AUC) as a measure of the mean inactivation dose. Tumor lines were tested with either a cobalt-60 (60Co) gamma-irradiator having a dose rate of 100 cGy/minute or with a 4-meV photon beam having a dose rate of 200 cGy/minute. The mean AUC of the 25 SCC cell lines was 188 +/- 7 (SEM) cGy (range, 100 to 250 cGy) whereas the four non-SCC lines had a mean AUC of 225 +/- 9 cGy. The SCC cell lines with mean inactivation dose values greater than 188 cGy were classified as relatively radioresistant whereas those with values less than 188 cGy were considered relatively radiosensitive. In seven cases SCC cell lines were derived from patients who had already received radiation therapy. In four of these cases the tumor cell lines were radioresistant (AUC, 210 to 250) but in the other three cases the tumor lines were radiosensitive (AUC, 160 to 180). Thus, failure of a tumor to respond to radiation did not always select for radioresistant cells. The mean of the AUC for cell lines from previously irradiated patients (197 +/- 11 cGy) did not differ significantly from that of the cell lines from patients who received no prior radiation therapy (182 +/- 9 cGy). However, among radiation-resistant lines those from the four previously irradiated patients were significantly more resistant (mean AUC = 235 +/- 9) than seven other radioresistant lines from nonirradiated patients (mean AUC, 208 +/- 4) (P = 0.0194). In four cases more than one cell line was derived from different tumor specimens in the same patient. In each of these cases the lines from the same patients were similar to one another in their degree of radioresistance. Based on these observations the authors conclude that the degree of in vitro radiation resistance is an inherent property of some squamous cell tumors. 
Dynamic gadolinium-enhanced rapid acquisition spin-echo MR imaging of the liver. Rapid acquisition spin-echo (RASE) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging allows for coverage of the entire liver with highly T1-weighted SE images during a single 23-second breath-holding period. The RASE sequence was implemented in conjunction with rapid intravenous injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine to enable performance of dynamic contrast material-enhanced MR imaging of the liver. Prospective evaluation of 24 patients with 62 liver lesions 1 cm or greater in diameter was performed. Images obtained with RASE were devoid of respiratory-related ghost artifacts or edge blurring. The dynamic contrast-enhanced RASE technique resulted in contrast-to-noise and contrast-to-artifact values and time efficiency measures significantly greater (P less than .05) than those obtained with use of conventional T1- and T2-weighted pulse sequences, indicating a higher likelihood for lesion detectability. Lesion conspicuity was maximal during or immediately following bolus administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine, with lesions often becoming obscured at delayed postcontrast imaging. 
Endothelin binding in brain of normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats. The endothelins (ETs) are a recently discovered family of peptides which appear to be involved in hemodynamic regulation; they have potent vasoconstrictor properties and dose-related effects on blood pressure when administered peripherally. Little is known about the role of ET in the brain. The purpose of this study was to characterize the binding properties of various ETs in the brain of normotensive (Wistar-Kyoto) and hypertensive (spontaneously hypertensive) rats. [125I]ET 1 was prepared using the enzymobead lactoperoxidase method and purified by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Membrane fractions were prepared from homogenates of various brain regions. A differential distribution of ET binding was found among the 14 brain regions studied. The cerebellum, brainstem and area postrema/nucleus tractus solitarius had the highest binding, whereas the cortex, pituitary and septum had the least binding. Competition experiments performed with hypothalamus, brainstem and cerebellum demonstrated different Ki values for the ET studied. ET 2 had the highest affinity with a Ki of 4 x 10(-1) M, whereas the ET analog, Ala3,11-ET 1, had the lowest affinity with a Ki of 3 x 10(-10) M. Saturation experiments indicated a single class of high-affinity receptors in cerebellar (Kd = 2.5 x 10(-11) M, maximal binding Bmax = 1.25 x 10(-12) mol/mg) and hypothalamic membranes (Kd = 1.9 x 10(-11) M, Bmax = 0.93 x 10(-12) mol/mg). No differences in Kd or Bmax were detected between Wistar-Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats hypothalamic and cerebellar tissues. The results of this study suggest a role for ET in the brain, but revealed no differences between normotensive and hypertensive strains. 
Antihypertensive effects of an aromatase inhibitor in inbred salt-sensitive rats. Rats susceptible to the hypertensive effect of dietary salt (SS/Jr) have excess urinary 19-nordeoxycorticosterone compared with salt-resistant control rats (SR/Jr). 19-Nordeoxycorticosterone is a hypertensinogenic mineralocorticoid, but whether it contributes to the salt sensitivity of SS/Jr is unknown. This study sought to evaluate the contribution of 19-nordeoxycorticosterone to the salt sensitivity of SS/Jr by lowering its production with an aromatase inhibitor, 10-propargyl-androst-4-ene,3,17-dione (19-acetylenic-androstenedione, 19-AA). This aromatase inhibitor also preferentially inhibits nonaromatizing adrenal 19-hydroxylation, an essential step in the formation of 19-nordeoxycorticosterone. To test this hypothesis, inhibitor (120 mg) or vehicle pellets were implanted into male and female weanling SS/Jr at 42 days of age. A high salt diet (8% NaCl) was started and two additional pellets were implanted at 52 and 62 days of age. Systolic blood pressure was measured in all animals and urinary corticosteroids in males. Compared with vehicle, the inhibitor lowered blood pressure at 50 days of age (when it could first be measured) until 64 days of age in females and 71 days of age in males. Corticosterone and aldosterone levels were not different between 19-AA- and vehicle-treated SS/Jr. 19-Nordeoxycorticosterone levels, however, were mildly reduced with the inhibitor (0.05 less than p less than 0.10). After 28 days of high salt diet all 23 of the 19-AA-treated SS/Jr were alive, whereas almost one half of the control animals had died. These data demonstrate that 19-AA attenuates the hypertension in SS/Jr; this effect may be through reduction in 19-nordeoxycorticosterone production. 
Bouveret's syndrome: an unusual twist on the classic cause. Bouveret's syndrome is a duodenal obstruction caused by a gallstone, manifested mostly as a gastric outlet obstruction. We have reported an instance of Bouveret's syndrome caused by two separate stones, either of which could independently have caused the obstruction. It is imperative to be sure that the obstruction is relieved before terminating the operative procedure. 
Cerebral vasospasm in elderly patients with ruptured intracranial aneurysms. Cerebral vasospasm in elderly patients who were operated on the acute stage after subarachnoid hemorrhage was studied under strict criteria. The 138 patients were classified into three age groups: 59 years or younger (group A: 73 cases), 60 to 69 years (group B: 37 cases), and 70 years or older (group C: 28 cases). Severity of both the subarachnoid hemorrhages on computed tomography scan and the angiographic vasospasms was graded. The angiographic vasospasms were analyzed at the internal carotid artery, M1 segments of the middle cerebral artery, and A2 segments of the anterior cerebral. In all the relationships among the subarachnoid hemorrhage grades, the Hounsfield numbers, and the operative approaches to the angiographic vasospasm grade, there was a tendency for the angiographic vasospasm grades to be lower with increasing age in both the internal carotid artery and the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery. This tendency was more apparent in the larger vessels, that is, the internal carotid arteries. Close correlations of the angiographic vasospasm grades to the incidences of symptomatic vasospasm and to low-density area on computed tomography scan were found in both the M1 and A2 territories in the three groups. However, there were no significant differences among the three groups in the incidences of symptomatic vasospasm and low-density area on computed tomography scan. Regarding the surgical outcome, the older the patients, the higher were the mortality rates: 8% in group A, 11% in group B, and 25% in group C. 
Reduction by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor of fever and neutropenia induced by chemotherapy in patients with small-cell lung cancer. BACKGROUND. Neutropenia and infection are major dose-limiting side effects of chemotherapy. Previous studies have suggested that recombinant methionyl granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) can reduce chemotherapy-related neutropenia in patients with cancer. We conducted a randomized clinical trial to test this hypothesis and the clinical implications. METHODS. Patients with small-cell lung cancer were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of recombinant methionyl G-CSF to study the incidence of infection as manifested by fever with neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count, less than 1.0 x 10(9) per liter, with a temperature greater than or equal to 38.2 degrees C) resulting from up to six cycles of chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and etoposide. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either placebo or G-CSF, with treatment beginning on day 4 and continuing through day 17 of a 21-day cycle. RESULTS. The safety of the study treatment could be evaluated in 207 of the 211 patients assigned to either drug, and its efficacy in 199. At least one episode of fever with neutropenia occurred in 77 percent of the placebo group, as compared with 40 percent of the G-CSF group (P less than 0.001). Over all cycles of chemotherapy, the median duration of grade IV neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count, less than 0.5 x 10(9) per liter) was six days with placebo as compared with one day with G-CSF. During cycles of blinded treatment, the number of days of treatment with intravenous antibiotics, the number of days of hospitalization, and the incidence of confirmed infections were reduced by approximately 50 percent when G-CSF was given, as compared with placebo. Mild-to-moderate medullary bone pain occurred in 20 percent of the patients receiving G-CSF. CONCLUSIONS. The use of G-CSF as an adjunct to chemotherapy in patients with small-cell cancer of the lung was well tolerated and led to reductions in the incidence of fever with neutropenia and culture-confirmed infections; in the incidence, duration, and severity of grade IV neutropenia; and in the total number of days of treatment with intravenous antibiotics and days of hospitalization. 
Dimensions of pain-related cognitive coping: cross-validation of the factor structure of the Coping Strategy Questionnaire. Previous research has demonstrated a relationship between cognitive pain coping activity and adjustment in pain patients. The empirically derived dimensions of coping activity, as measured by scales from the Coping Strategy Questionnaire (CSQ), however, have varied across investigations. The purpose of this investigation was to determine both the content and number of dimensions of the CSQ and to explore the potential moderating influence that sociodemographic and patient history variables may have on the latent structure of the CSQ. A total of 620 patients from 5 different chronic pain patient samples were used to assess the generalizability of the dimensions across samples. Confirmatory factor analytic procedures identified a 3-factor solution in most of the samples that was robust across various demographic characteristics. Two factors appeared particularly robust: one reflected conscious use of cognitive coping strategies (with high loadings on ignoring pain and coping self-statements) and another reflected self-efficacy beliefs concerning pain (with high loadings on ability to control and decrease pain). A third factor, which was somewhat less stable, appeared to reflect avoidance of pain by attention to non-pain-related mental activity (with high loadings on diverting attention and praying and hoping). Scales reflecting catastrophizing cognitions and behavioral coping strategies did not consistently load on the above dimensions. Issues concerning the conceptualization and measurement of pain-related cognitive coping dimensions are discussed. 
Chronic treatment with tin normalizes blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. We have reported that short-term treatment of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats with stannous chloride (SnCl2), which selectively depletes renal cytochrome P450, restores blood pressure to normal in young but not in adult SHR, and is without effect on blood pressure of either young or adult WKY rats. We report in the present study that chronic treatment with SnCl2, begun at age 5 weeks, prevented the development of hypertension in SHR over a period of 15 weeks at which time they were killed. Suspension of SnCl2 treatment after 8 weeks (i.e., at age 13 weeks) did not result in return of blood pressure to hypertensive levels in SHR. Age-matched WKY rats were not affected by tin treatment. These findings provide additional evidence that administration of tin, which stimulates heme oxygenase, thereby producing depletion of cytochrome P450, restores blood pressure to normal levels in SHR. 
Effect of cardiac tamponade on atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations: influence of stretch and pressure. 1. In order to study the role of atrial pressure and atrial stretch on the release of atrial natriuretic peptide we have measured plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentration, urine output and haemodynamic variables in eight patients during and 30 min after the relief of cardiac tamponade. This condition is characterized by high atrial pressure with little or no atrial stretch. 2. Relief of tamponade was associated with a rise in urine output (53 +/- 27.9 to 101 +/- 24.5 ml/h, mean +/- SEM; P = 0.09), systolic blood pressure (95 +/- 9.6 to 126 +/- 7.0 mmHg, P less than 0.0001), and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentration (369.5 +/- 70.9 to 490.3 +/- 94.7 pg/ml, P less than 0.05) despite a large fall in right atrial pressure (18.6 +/- 1.6 to 9.5 +/- 1.3 mmHg, P less than 0.001). 3. These results suggest, therefore, that an increase in atrial stretch, rather than in atrial pressure, stimulates the release of atrial natriuretic peptide. 
Gamma-interferon induction in patients with chronic progressive MS. Although gamma interferon (gamma-IFN) may be involved in the pathogenesis of exacerbations of multiple sclerosis (MS), whether it plays a role in chronic progressive MS is not known. To investigate this, we retrospectively analyzed serum samples from nine chronic progressive MS patients who were treated with monthly intravenous infusions of the interferon inducer polyinosinic acid polycytidylic acid polylysine in carboxymethylcellulose (poly ICLC). Using a bioassay we found that the mean peak total interferon level was 177 U/ml 12 hours after infusion, and using a radioimmunoassay we found that the mean peak gamma-IFN level was 15.9 U/ml 12 hours after infusion, so that gamma-IFN made up approximately 10% of the total. Greater gamma-IFN induction did not correlate with clinical worsening; induced gamma-IFN levels were not higher in two patients who worsened on treatment, and the highest levels were found in a patient who remained stable. Either chronic progressive MS is not sensitive to gamma-IFN or the effects of gamma-IFN are masked by other mediators induced by poly ICLC. 
Colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. A prospective trial of optimal antibiotic management. The ideal prophylactic antibiotic regimen has not been established for patients undergoing colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, and endorectal ileoanal anastomosis, a prolonged operation frequently accompanied by abdominal and pelvic contamination and associated with an infection rate up to 20%. The aim of this study was to evaluate, in a prospective, randomized, double-blind fashion, the efficacy of a short perioperative course compared to an extended postoperative course of intravenous antibiotics (cefoxitin) in patients undergoing colectomy with ileoanal anastomosis. Forty patients with ulcerative colitis or familial polyposis coli received a mechanical and oral antibiotic bowel preparation and a standard three-dose perioperative course of intravenous cefoxitin. Patients then were randomized to receive intravenous cefoxitin, 1 g every 6 hours, or placebo for 5 days. No differences in overall postoperative morbidity were observed and neither group developed intra-abdominal, pelvic, or wound infections. It is concluded that a standard three-dose perioperative course of intravenous antibiotics provides adequate prophylaxis in the prevention of infectious complications in patients undergoing colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, and ileoanal anastomosis. 
Variation in management based on type of choledochal cyst. The management of 23 patients treated for choledochal cysts at the Oregon Health Sciences University between 1969 and 1990 is reviewed. The median age was 27 years, with a range from 1 month to 90 years. Seventy-eight percent of patients presented with abdominal pain, and 35% were jaundiced. Three patients presented with cholangitis, two with cyst rupture, and one with recurrent pancreatitis. Nine patients had had previous biliary surgery. The diagnosis was made in all patients with ultrasound and/or cholangiography. Fifteen patients (65%) had type I cysts, 2 had a type II cyst, 5 (22%) had type III cysts, and 1 had a type IV cyst. Stones were present in four (17%) cysts, and all excised cysts were benign. Seventeen patients with type I and II choledochal cysts had complete cyst excision and choledochoenterostomy. Four of five patients with type III cysts had endoscopic cyst incision and drainage, while the fifth patient had transduodenal cyst excision and sphincteroplasty. The patient with a type IV cyst had extrahepatic cyst excision and choledochojejunostomy. There were no operative deaths. Two postoperative complications occurred: cholangitis and a prolonged ileus. All patients had resolution of their pain and jaundice. Two patients had late cholangitis. Cyst excision and choledochojejunostomy are the treatment of choice for types I and II choledochal cysts. Extrahepatic cyst excision and choledochojejunostomy may be adequate treatment for type IV cysts. Endoscopic incision and drainage is appropriate for selected patients with type III cysts. 
Natural history of acquired renal cystic disease in dialysis patients: a prospective longitudinal CT study. Patients with end-stage kidney disease, particularly those treated with dialysis, develop proliferative processes in their native kidneys that result in the formation of multiple acquired renal cysts, renal adenomas, and carcinomas. Data about these abnormalities have been acquired mainly from retrospective studies. We undertook a longitudinal prospective study in which the native kidneys of 30 dialysis patients were surveyed by serial CT during a 7-year period to study the natural history of acquired renal cystic disease and the frequency of associated complications. Acquired cysts were seen in 87% of patients at the end of the study compared with 57% at the study's onset, and a significant increase was seen in mean renal volume with time. Five patients (17%) developed large hemorrhagic renal cysts and four (13%) developed large perinephric hematomas. Renal cell carcinomas developed in two patients (7%) without renal symptoms. One carcinoma invaded the renal capsule, but did not cause metastases. The other carcinoma was widely metastatic. Our findings are consistent with those of earlier studies documenting an increased prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients as compared with the general population. However, our conclusions are limited because the study sample is small and no control population was studied. We conclude that acquired renal cystic disease in dialysis patients is a progressive disorder often associated with cyst hemorrhage. Dialysis patients may also have an increased prevalence of renal cell carcinoma. 
Mesenteric infarction secondary to tumor emboli from primary aortic sarcoma. Guidelines for diagnosis and management. Primary aortic tumors are rare, difficult to diagnose, and often fatal. This case and a review of the literature identified aortic tumors as a potential source of emboli leading to acute mesenteric insufficiency. The case showed the efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging in diagnosing and determining the extent and location of an aortic tumor. 
Corrosion of modular hip prostheses. Nine uncemented hip prostheses of modular design were revised because of late infection (2 cases), femoral stem loosening or fracture (2), loosening of threaded cups (3) and protrusion of bipolar cups (2). At surgery we found tissue discoloration and macroscopic corrosion in four of the nine prostheses, located at the head-neck junction. Histological examination in most cases showed extensive necrosis associated with metal particles, indicating metal toxicity. Metallographic examination of the prosthetic heads revealed structural imperfections and inhomogeneity of the metal. We suggest that the crevice between the head and neck is a potential site of corrosion in modular designs. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysm in chronic thoracic dissection. Report of two cases. Two cases of lower abdominal aortic aneurysm in association with chronic thoracic dissections are reported. These infra-renal aortic aneurysms, superimposed on an abdominal extension of the dissection, always require surgical treatment because of their well known tendency to enlarge and rupture. The authors report their experience and discuss the management of this complication in chronic dissections treated surgically. 
Hormonal inhibition of the endometrium for resectoscopic endometrial ablation. Attempts at inhibiting the thickness and vascularity of the endometrium in preparation for endometrial ablation by using different types of hormones have been reported. To evaluate the effects of two different progestins, danazol, and leuprolide acetate on the endometrium, compared with the features of early proliferative endometrium, histologic studies were done for at least five patients treated with each hormone who then underwent resectoscopic endometrial ablation for treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. Significant and at times dramatic differences among the treatment groups were found, with progestin-prepared endometrium being the least successful and leuprolide-prepared endometrium the most successful. In addition, the prolonged suppression provided for a period of time after the procedure by depot leuprolide is likely to help inhibit endometrial regeneration and provide even better long-term success of the procedure. 
Venogenic impotence following dermal graft repair for Peyronie's disease. Peyronie's plaque excision with dermal grafting generally offers good cosmetic results for patients who require surgical intervention for Peyronie's disease. However, postoperative impotence has been reported in 12 to 100% of such patients. The mechanism of impotence in this setting is not well defined. We present 3 men who had venogenic impotence after plaque excision and dermal grafting for Peyronie's disease. One patient has subsequently responded well to dorsal vein ligation, 1 has chosen an effective nonoperative method of management and 1 continues to consider the options. We report venous leak as an organic cause of impotence after plaque excision and dermal grafting for Peyronie's disease, and its successful management by dorsal vein ligation. The implications of these findings in the surgical management of Peyronie's disease are discussed. 
Retrobulbar bupivacaine irrigation for postoperative pain after scleral buckling surgery. A prospective study. The authors conducted a prospective, randomized, double-masked clinical trial to determine if retrobulbar irrigation with bupivacaine hydrochloride 0.75% (Marcaine) has an effect on postoperative pain after scleral buckling surgery. Fifty consecutive patients undergoing scleral buckling under general anesthesia were randomized to receive either bupivacaine or balanced salt solution as a retrobulbar irrigation at the end of their retinal detachment procedure. Of the 25 patients who received bupivacaine, only three (12%) required parenteral pain relief in the first 24 hours after surgery. This was statistically significant when compared with the 18 (72%) of 25 patients requiring parenteral pain relief in the placebo group (P less than 0.0001). In addition, when questioned about their perception of the degree of postoperative pain, patients in the control group rated their level of pain as significantly more severe than did patients in the bupivacaine group. The authors conclude that retrobulbar irrigation with bupivacaine is a safe and effective way to achieve postoperative pain relief after surgery for scleral buckling. 
A cellular mechanism for impaired posthypoxic relaxation in isolated cardiac myocytes. Altered myofilament relaxation kinetics at reoxygenation. Single, isolated rat ventricular myocytes were made hypoxic for 10 minutes and then reoxygenated. During hypoxia, there was a marked abbreviation of the mechanical twitch, without a decrease in its amplitude. Immediately after reoxygenation, both the time to peak shortening and the duration of relaxation were markedly prolonged, and they remained prolonged for 10-50 minutes. The alterations in contraction and relaxation were not associated with any change in the time course of either the transmembrane action potential or the cytosolic calcium transient, as recorded with the fluorescent probe indo 1. Intracellular pH, measured with a fluorescent probe (carboxyseminaphthorhodofluor), showed an acid shift during hypoxia and an alkaline rebound immediately after reoxygenation. The time courses of intracellular pH and contraction duration were not parallel during hypoxia or reoxygenation, and simulation of the alkaline pH shift by lowering PCO2 or superfusing NH4Cl (in the absence of exposure to hypoxia) did not quantitatively reproduce the prolongation of relaxation seen after reoxygenation. The prolongation of contraction after reoxygenation could be overridden by the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol or the nonenzymatic phosphatase butanedione monoxime. We conclude that delayed relaxation after reoxygenation exists at the single cell level and is due to an alteration of the properties of the myofilaments. Intracellular pH is not the primary mediator of this alteration. We speculate that alteration of intracellular inorganic phosphate or covalent modification of the myofilaments might be involved. 
5-Fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cisplatin as treatment for adrenal cortical carcinoma. Fourteen patients with progressive metastatic adrenal cortical carcinoma were treated with a combination of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), doxorubicin, and cisplatin (FAP). All had a large tumor burden. Six patients had a hormone-producing tumor; mitotane treatment was given to five of them during chemotherapy for its possible antihormonal effects. Treatment could be evaluated in 13 patients. The overall response rate was 23% (95% confidence interval [CI], 5% to 54%). A complete remission, which lasted for 42 months, was achieved in one patient. Partial remissions, which lasted for 6 and 11 months, were achieved in two patients. Cardiotoxicity appeared in three patients, myelotoxicity in four, and nephrotoxicity in one. This confirms that this regimen is an active combination for the treatment of metastatic adrenal cortical carcinoma. 
Fact and fancy. What can we really tell from the placenta? Considerable interest in the clinical significance of placental abnormalities has been fueled by malpractice claims when perinatal outcome is less than optimal. The pathologist must be aware of those placental lesions that may contribute to perinatal morbidity and mortality. This article reviews the abnormalities of placentation, placental weight, maternal uteroplacental blood flow, villous histological makeup, fetoplacental blood flow, the umbilical cord, and the membranes, as well as the problems of multiple pregnancy. The important contribution of abnormal uteroplacental blood flow to adverse perinatal outcome is emphasized, as is the need to determine the extent of placental damage when evaluating the contribution thereto of particular placental abnormalities. 
Heterozygous protein C deficiency associated with multiple congenital hemangiomas--a case report. Congenital protein C deficiency is described as associated with recurrent thrombotic manifestations. The proband, a fourteen-year-old female, has a history of severe and frequent thrombotic disease, moreover, she presents congenital multiple hemangiomas. Family history was positive for protein C deficiency since the mother of the proposita is also affected and has manifested deep venous thrombophlebitis. Two additional relatives on the maternal side were not available for study but were reported to be symptomatic. None of the family members presented angiomatosis. This case report represents the first description of the association of protein C deficiency with multiple hemangiomas. 
Clinical overview of management of chronic ischemic heart disease. The outcome of patients with chronic coronary artery disease is dependent on many factors; the most important ones include the severity and extent of coronary artery disease, state of left ventricular function at rest, extent and severity of myocardial ischemia, and the total amount of left ventricular myocardium that is at risk. To use noninvasive tests optimally, the clinician first must define the information needed. The sensitivity, specificity, and predictive accuracy of the test(s) in providing the necessary information, the additive value of the result of a test to the information already available, and the best combination of tests in providing the desired information help determine the choice of various noninvasive tests in a particular clinical circumstance. 
Combined nasal intermittent positive-pressure ventilation and rocking bed in chronic respiratory insufficiency. Nocturnal ventilatory support of a disabled person at home. The use of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation via nasal mask with a rocking bed provided the necessary ventilatory support for a person with quadriplegia living at home. This option was required to maintain an independent life-style of choice. The combination of techniques and the linkage of devices demonstrated an effective use of simple available technology for respiratory care at home and the adaptation of the respiratory prescription to the total needs of each person: medical, social, and financial. The further use of nasal mask ventilation in selected cases is encouraged by clinical research protocol. 
Metalloproteinases in degenerative aortic disease. 1. Atherosclerosis and aneurysm of the abdominal aorta are associated with thinning of the medial connective tissue. We have investigated the presence of the connective-tissue-degrading metalloproteinases in homogenates prepared from atherosclerotic, aneurysmal and control aortic media. 2. Gelatinase activity was much increased in homogenates from atherosclerotic and aneurysmal aorta [10.9 +/- 1.8 and 13.3 +/- 3.3 micrograms of gelatin hydrolysed h-1 (mg of protein)-1 respectively]. This gelatinase activity was highest at the luminal aspect of the aortic media, where the activity increased three- to five-fold after the destruction of alpha 2-macroglobulin. Zymograms demonstrated the principal gelatinase in atherosclerotic aorta to have a molecular mass of about 92 kDa, whereas in aneurysmal aorta there was a spectrum of gelatinase activity from 92 to 55 kDa. 3. Collagenase and stromelysin (proteoglycanase) could be detected by immunoblotting in homogenates of aneurysmal aorta, but rarely in atherosclerotic aorta and never in control aorta. Collagenase and stromelysin activities were low, but increased two- to three-fold after the destruction of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases. Collagenase and stromelysin activities were highest at the adventitial aspect of aneurysmal media. 4. The secretion of gelatinase by inflammatory cells at the intima of diseased aorta could have a pathological role in establishing atherosclerotic plaques and medial thinning. Secretion of collagenase, gelatinase and stromelysin from the adventitia could accelerate connective tissue degradation in the media of aneurysmal aorta. 
Variability of body weight and health outcomes in the Framingham population BACKGROUND. Fluctuation in body weight is a common phenomenon, due in part to the high prevalence of dieting. In this study we examined the associations between variability in body weight and health end points in subjects participating in the Framingham Heart Study, which involves follow-up examinations every two years after entry. METHODS. The degree of variability of body weight was expressed as the coefficient of variation of each subject's measured body-mass-index values at the first eight biennial examinations during the study and on their recalled weight at 25 years of age. Using the 32-year follow-up data, we analyzed total mortality, mortality from coronary heart disease, and morbidity due to coronary heart disease and cancer in relation to intraindividual variation in body weight, including only end points that occurred after the 10th biennial examination. We used age-adjusted proportional-hazards regression for the data analysis. RESULTS. Subjects with highly variable body weights had increased total mortality (P = 0.005 for men, P = 0.01 for women), mortality from coronary heart disease (P = 0.009 for men, P = 0.009 for women), and morbidity due to coronary heart disease (P = 0.0009 for men, P = 0.006 for women). Using a multivariate analysis that also controlled for obesity, trends in weight over time, and five indicators of cardiovascular risk, we found that the positive associations between fluctuations in body weight and end points related to mortality and coronary heart disease could not be attributed to these potential confounding factors. The relative risks of these end points in subjects whose weight varied substantially, as compared with those whose weight was relatively stable, ranged from 1.27 to 1.93. CONCLUSIONS. Fluctuations in body weight may have negative health consequences, independent of obesity and the trend of body weight over time. 
The serotonin syndrome. OBJECTIVE AND METHOD: A review of the literature on the serotonin syndrome in animals and human beings was conducted, and 12 reports of 38 cases in human patients were then analyzed to determine the most frequently reported clinical features and drug interactions, as well as the incidence, treatment, and outcome of this syndrome. FINDINGS: The serotonin syndrome is most commonly the result of the interaction between serotonergic agents and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most frequent clinical features are changes in mental status, restlessness, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, diaphoresis, shivering, and tremor. The presumed pathophysiological mechanism involves brainstem and spinal cord activation of the 1A form of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) receptor. The incidence of the syndrome is not known. Both sexes have been affected, and patients' ages have ranged from 20 to 68 years. Discontinuation of the suspected serotonergic agent and institution of supportive measures are the primary treatment, although 5-HT receptor antagonists may also play a role. Once treatment is instituted, the syndrome typically resolves within 24 hours, but confusion can last for days, and death has been reported. CONCLUSIONS: The serotonin syndrome is a toxic condition requiring heightened clinical awareness for prevention, recognition, and prompt treatment. Further work is needed to establish the diagnostic criteria, incidence, and predisposing factors, to identify the role of 5-HT antagonists in treatment, and to differentiate the syndrome from neuroleptic malignant syndrome. 
Thrombolytic therapy in the management of acute limb ischaemia. Acute limb ischaemia poses a threat to both the limb and life of a patient. Until recently, attempted revascularization by thromboembolectomy or vascular reconstruction held the best chance of limb salvage. Thrombolytic techniques afford an alternative method of management for this condition and are effective in selected patients. Low-dose intra-arterial streptokinase is the most established method of thrombolysis, although the recently developed tissue plasminogen activator offers a promising alternative. Intra-arterial thrombolysis is not an easy option, being labour intensive and requiring close co-operation between surgeon and radiologist. Thrombolytic and surgical techniques are not mutually exclusive but are best used to complement each other. Ideally patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by surgeons with knowledge of, and access to, optimal current surgical and non-surgical techniques. 
Health implications of obesity in American Indians and Alaska Natives. American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) are experiencing an epidemic of diabetes, increasing rates of coronary artery disease and hypertension, and poor survival rates for breast cancer that are likely partially attributable to the increasing prevalence of obesity over the past generation. Obesity may also contribute to the high rates of gallstones and to adverse outcomes of pregnancy in AI/ANs. Although overall mortality was not associated with obesity in Pima Indians (except in the most obese men), the relationship of obesity to longevity in other AI/AN groups is not known. Further study of the specific health effects of obesity in various groups of AI/ANs are needed. In the meantime, community-based programs to prevent obesity and its sequelae should be implemented in all AI/AN communities. 
Treatment of primary fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome with ibuprofen and alprazolam. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study. A multidimensional evaluation of 78 patients with primary fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome (PFS) revealed no significant relationship between clinical measures of physical discomfort and psychological measures. This observation provided evidence against the notion that the pain of PFS has a psychological etiology. The same patients were randomized into 4 groups for treatment with ibuprofen and/or alprazolam in a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled pilot trial. Clinical improvement in patient rating of disease severity and in the severity of tenderness upon palpation was most apparent in the subgroup of patients who were receiving both ibuprofen and alprazolam. An 8-week, open-label study in which 52 patients received both drugs further documented improvement in outcome measures. These data indicate that treatment with a combination of ibuprofen and alprazolam can be beneficial for some patients with PFS. 
Respiratory complications in critically ill medical patients with acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine types of respiratory complications encountered in critically ill patients with serious acute upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, and to identify associated risk factors. DESIGN: Retrospective chart review. SETTING: A university hospital medical ICU. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed medical records of 86 patients admitted to the medical ICU over a 2 1/2-yr period of time, for 107 consecutive episodes of serious acute upper GI bleeding. Clinical features of patients who developed respiratory complications of pneumonia, witnessed aspiration of gastric contents, or who required intubation and mechanical ventilation for other reasons were compared with those features of patients without respiratory complications. MAIN RESULTS: Respiratory complications occurred during 23 (22%) serious upper GI bleeding episodes (mean transfusion requirement, 7 units of packed RBCs). Twelve patients developed pneumonia and all had evidence of advanced liver disease. Five patients were observed to aspirate gastric contents and six patients require intubation and mechanical ventilation for reasons other than pneumonia or aspiration. Esophageal sites of bleeding (esophagitis, esophageal ulcers and esophageal varices), advanced liver disease, age greater than 70 yrs, and an Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score greater than 13 appeared to be risk factors. Mortality rate was increased in patients with respiratory complications: 70% of patients with respiratory complications died, compared with 4% of those patients without such problems (p less than .001). CONCLUSIONS: Respiratory complications are common in critically ill medical patients with serious acute upper GI bleeding, and are associated with a poor outcome. Risk factors include advanced liver disease, esophageal site of bleeding, age greater than 70 yrs, and higher APACHE II score. 
Aphthoid ulceration of the colon in strongyloidiasis. In humans, infestation with Strongyloides stercoralis most commonly involves the upper small intestine. We describe a 65-yr-old woman who presented with abdominal pain, weight loss, and hypoalbuminemia, and was found at colonoscopy to have patchy erythema with aphthoid ulcers scattered throughout the large intestine proximal to the splenic flexure. Biopsy of involved areas and examination of the colonic effluent revealed S. stercoralis larvae. Previous reports of colonic involvement with this nematode, and the differential diagnosis of aphthoid ulcers, a newly described lesion associated with S. stercoralis infestation, are discussed. 
Blood and bone marrow eosinophilia in malignant tumors. Role and nature of blood and tissue eosinophil colony-stimulating factor(s) in two patients. Eosinophilia of the blood and bone marrow may be encountered in patients with disseminated malignancies. It is unrelated to the histologic type of the tumor but usually reflects its aggressiveness and prognostic outlook. Its pathogenesis is controversial. The presence of eosinophil colony-stimulating factor(s) in serum and malignant tissue extracts was evaluated in two cases of malignancies accompanied by marked blood and bone marrow eosinophilia. When compared with controls, serum and tumor tissue extracts stimulated the growth of G, M, and Eo colonies in semisolid cultures of human bone marrow. Such stimulating effect was inhibited by the addition of antibodies to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin-3. Thus, the colony-stimulating factor(s) play a role in the pathogenesis of the eosinophilia associated with some malignant tumors, and these factors appear to include GM-CSF, interleukin-3, and probably others. 
Tubuloglomerular feedback in one-kidney, one-clip hypertensive rats. Previous studies have shown that hydropenic one-kidney, one-clip (1-K, 1-C) hypertensive HT rats exhibit impaired autoregulation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in response to reduced arterial perfusion pressure. We investigated the possible role of altered tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) activity in this phenomenon. Uninephrectomized Wistar rats were studied acutely 3 weeks after placing silver clips (0.2 mm) on the renal artery. Experiments were performed in 1-K,1-C HT rats and in uninephrectomized control animals. TGF activity was assessed as changes in proximal tubule stop-flow pressure (SFP) in response to orthograde microperfusion from 0 to 80 nl/min into late proximal tubule segments. Only the highest perfusion rates (approximately 40 nl/min) into late proximal tubule segments resulted in maximal decreases in SFP, indicating a marked rightward shift of overall TGF activity in 1-K,1-C HT rats. Similar responses were observed in the uninephrectomized animals. In contrast, changes of SFP were observed at lower perfusion rates in normal animals and maximal responses were observed at perfusion rates of approximately 20 nl/min. These observations are consistent with the possibility that altered TGF activity contributes to impaired autoregulation of GFR in 1-K,1-C HT rats in response to reduced renal perfusion pressure. In response to treatment with i.v. captopril, the 1-K,1-C HT rats exhibited marked decreases in systemic arterial pressure associated with decreases in SFP and virtually complete inhibition of TGF activity. It is attractive to hypothesize that these alterations in TGF characteristics in the 1-K,1-C HT rats play a significant pathophysiologic role in the acute renal dysfunction observed in response to acute decreases of blood pressure during conditions of augmented angiotensin activity. Additional future studies will allow us to address the precise role for intrarenal angiotensin in these phenomena. 
Characterization of syngeneic rat monoclonal antibodies to the HSN tumor using syngeneic monoclonal anti-idiotopic antibodies. Twelve syngeneic anti-idiotopic mAb (anti-idiotypic/idiotopic antibodies Ab2)) were prepared from CBH/Cbi rats immunized with one of three monoclonal anti-HSN antibodies (Ab1) (11/160, ALN/11/53, or ALN/16/53) specific for the HSN tumor. The sera of the rats used for hybridoma production and all of the monoclonal Ab2 specifically inhibited the binding to HSN of the immunizing Ab1 only. It is concluded that, in this completely syngeneic system, only the private idiotopes associated with the antibody-combining site were immunogenic. Analyses using Western blotting showed that the Ab2 bound to intact Ab1 and to isolated H chains where the intra-strand disulfide bonds remained intact. The Ab2 did not bind to L chains or to fully reduced H chains of the Ab1. It is concluded that the idiotopes expressed on the H chain were conformational. When a panel of 13 monoclonal Ab1 (including the three used for immunization) were tested for reactivity with the Ab2, three reacted specifically with their respective Ab2 and 8 gave no binding suggesting that each Ab1 had a distinct idiotypic specificity despite the fact that all the Ab1 competed with each other for binding to Ag. However, the two remaining Ab1 (ALN/9/94 and ALN/12/17) generated from different tumor-bearing rats, were found to possess the same idiotypic specificity as 11/160. A detailed analysis using seven Ab2 raised against 11/160 showed that while the idiotype of ALN/9/94 and 11/160 were very similar, that of ALN/12/17 showed some clear differences. These three Ab1 have been shown previously to bind a sequential epitope on the HSN Ag in Western blots and it is postulated that the common idiotype of these Ab1 reflects their recognition of a sequential epitope. This may also account for the relatively frequent occurrence in tumor bearer sera of antibodies with this Id. 
Salmonella: a rare cause of subacute effusive-constrictive pericarditis. A 36 year old woman had emergency pericardectomy because of subacute effusive-constrictive pericarditis. The pericardial fluid and tissue culture showed that this was caused by infection with Salmonella enteritidis. Cardiac involvement with salmonella does not usually present in such an aggressive manner and it has not previously been reported to cause this rare type of cardiac constriction. 
Urinary retention--an unusual dystonic reaction to continuous metoclopramide infusion. Vomiting is one of the most distressing adverse effects of cancer chemotherapy. Metoclopramide by continuous infusion (400 micrograms/kg/h after a loading dose of 2.5 mg/kg) is a novel administration method for optimizing efficacy. A two-year-old boy developed urinary retention on three occasions, once accompanied by priapism and slurred speech, while receiving a continuous infusion. This was reversed by procyclidine, suggesting that it may have been a dystonic reaction. 
Complications of the variable screw plate pedicle screw fixation. In this study, 124 consecutive cases of posterior spinal fusion with variable screw plate fixation were reviewed. In 33 patients (27%), 41 complications were identified. Urinary tract infection without sequelae developed in 13 patients. Dural tear occurred in seven patients and wound hematoma in five. Wound infection developed in three patients; one was subfascial requiring instrument and graft removal. Neurologic deficit developed in seven patients (6%), in five of whom the deficit was due to manipulation and reduction of neural elements. Two of the seven deficits were believed to be caused by misplaced pedicle screws. Variable screw plate fixation is a formidable procedure with a significant complications rate. 
Antibody-fluorescein conjugates for photoimmunodiagnosis of human colon carcinoma in nude mice. To improve the detectability of tumors by light-induced fluorescence, the use of monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) as carriers of fluorescent molecules was studied. As a model for this approach, the biodistribution of an anticarcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) MoAb coupled to fluorescein was studied in mice bearing a human colon carcinoma xenograft. In vitro, such conjugates with fluorescein-MoAb molar ratios ranging from four to 19, doubly labeled with 125I, showed more than 82% binding to immobilized CEA. In vivo, conjugates with a fluorescein-MoAb molar ratio of ten or less resulted in a tumor uptake of more than 30% of the injected dose of radioactivity per gram tumor at 24 hours. Tumor to liver, kidney, and muscle ratios of 20, 30 and 72, respectively, were obtained 48 hours after injection of the 125I-MoAb-(fluorescein)10 conjugate. The highest fluorescence intensity was always obtained for the tumor with the anti-CEA MoAb conjugate; whereas in control mice injected with fluoresceinated control immunoglobulin G1, no detectable increase in tumor fluorescence was observed. To compare these results with a classically used dye, mice bearing the same xenografts received 60 micrograms of Photofrin II. The intensity of the fluorescence signal of the tumor with this amount of Photofrin II was eight times lower than that obtained after an injection of 442 ng of fluorescein coupled with 20 micrograms of MoAb, which gave an absolute amount of fluorescein localized in the tumor of up to 125 ng/g of tumor. These results illustrate the possibility of improving the specificity of in vivo tumor localization of dyes for laser-induced fluorescence photodetection and phototherapy by coupling them to MoAb directed against tumor markers. 
Estimated prevalence of dementia among elderly black and white community residents. A stratified random sample of 83 black and 81 white community residents aged 65 years and older in a five-county area in the Piedmont region of North Carolina was evaluated for dementia, using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition, and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke--Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria. Of 164 subjects, 26 were found to be demented, resulting in an estimated prevalence rate of dementia in the five-county area of 16% (95% confidence interval, 7.92 to 24.08) for blacks and 3.05% (95% confidence interval, 0 to 6.91) for whites. The estimated prevalence of dementia for white women (2.9%) was similar to that for white men (3.3%), but the rate for black women was distinctly higher than for black men (19.9% and 8.9%, respectively). Blacks were more likely than whites to have a history of stroke, hypertension, and other chronic disorders that might have contributed to the development of dementia. Apart from differences in rates of institutionalization, no other relevant factors were identified that might explain the difference in the prevalence of dementia in these black and white community residents. 
Extended aortic root replacement with cryopreserved allografts: do they hold up? The extended aortic root replacement technique is used for the surgical repair of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction complicated by concurrent hypoplastic aortic annulus, multiple levels of obstruction, or aortic insufficiency. Extended aortic root replacement incorporates the concepts of aortic root replacement and aortoventriculoplasty to create a comparatively simple procedure. Unique features of the technique include the implantation of an allograft, which makes the need for anticoagulation obsolete, and use of the donor mitral leaflet to enlarge the outflow tract. Since 1985, 32 patients in Denver have undergone placement of a cryopreserved aortic valve allograft as part of extended aortic root replacement. There were four hospital deaths (13%), and 1 child underwent cardiac transplantation 30 hours after operation. In 6 months to 4.8 years of follow-up, a 14-year-old boy with familial hyperlipidemia required coronary artery bypass grafting, and 3 children experienced allograft calcification with progressive insufficiency, which prompted allograft replacement. The other 23 patients are clinically well. 
John Caffey Award paper. Avascular necrosis: early MR imaging and histologic findings in a canine model. To examine the early MR and histologic changes of avascular necrosis, we surgically devascularized the distal femur of adult beagle dogs and performed short TR/short TE MR imaging and histologic examinations. MR showed increasing areas of low signal, and histologic examination showed changes of fat necrosis, inflammatory infiltrate, and fibrocytic and bony repair. These processes were divided into four stages. Stage 1 is seen in the first days after surgery and consists of homogeneous high signal on MR and only subtle histologic changes of early fat necrosis. Stage 2, seen by 7 days after surgery, shows linear low-signal areas within the high-signal marrow on MR and fat necrosis and an inflammatory infiltrate on histologic sections. Stage 3, seen by 16 days after surgery, shows patchy low signal occupying more of the marrow on MR with a fibrocytic infiltrate on histologic sections. Stage 4, seen by 23 days after surgery, shows a more homogeneous low and intermediate signal on MR and histologic findings of more organized fibrocytes and the onset of new bone formation. Using this model, we have proved that MR imaging can show marrow changes as soon as 1 week after the onset of avascular necrosis. Whereas MR imaging showed a progression of increasing areas of low signal, the histologic findings seen during this time were diverse, including inflammatory infiltration (a previously unreported finding), fat necrosis, and fibrocytic and osseous repair. 
Low incidence of point mutation at codon 12 of K-ras proto-oncogene in squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract. Forty-two cases of squamous cell carcinoma arising in the upper aerodigestive tract were examined to determine the incidence and type of point mutation in codon 12 of the c-K-ras gene by using the polymerase chain reaction and oligonucleotide hybridization techniques on DNA extracted from paraffin blocks. DNA sequencing, in addition, was performed in 4 cases. No point mutation was detected in codon 12 of c-K-ras in the 42 squamous cell carcinomas we examined. According to the results of DNA sequencing of 4 cases, codon 13 also revealed no point mutation. Thus, point mutational activation of codon 12 of c-K-ras oncogene is an uncommon event in human upper aerodigestive tract squamous cell carcinoma. 
Destruction of tumour parenchyma in basal cell carcinoma by tumour-associated neutral proteases: a histochemical study. Proteolytic activity was demonstrated histochemically in frozen sections of basal cell carcinomas (BCCs). After incubation of tissue sections in 0.1 M phosphate buffer with 0.25 M NaCl the tumour epithelium was almost completely destroyed. The basal and squamous cell layers of the epidermis disintegrated to varying degrees, particularly where they were directly in contact with tumour epithelium. Serine and metalloprotease inhibitors diminished this tissue destruction. Iodoacetate enhanced tumour destruction, urea and potassium thiocyanate even more so. The high proteolytic activity of BCC demonstrated in this study may be an important factor in the proliferative, invasive and destructive behaviour of this tumour. 
Giant, human immunodeficiency virus-related ulcers in the esophagus. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection of the esophagus has recently been implicated as a cause of giant esophageal ulcers in HIV-positive patients with odynophagia. The authors examined four patients in whom esophagograms (one single-contrast and three double-contrast studies) revealed giant, HIV-related ulcers indistinguishable from those of cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophagitis. All four patients had severe odynophagia, one had an associated maculopapular rash, and two became HIV-positive at approximately the time of clinical presentation. In all patients, biopsy samples, brushings, and cultures obtained with endoscopy were negative for CMV or herpes simplex. One patient had positive brushings for candidiasis, but this may have resulted from fungal superinfection of the ulcer. Two patients were treated with orally administered steroids, and all four had swift clinical improvement; symptoms disappeared during an average period of 8.3 days from presentation. HIV-related esophageal ulcers should be distinguished from CMV ulcers, so that appropriate treatment can be initiated in these patients. 
Selegiline (deprenyl) treatment and death of nigral neurons in Parkinson's disease. We studied the effect of selegiline (deprenyl) treatment on the number of Lewy bodies and neuron counts in the substantia nigra in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The number of medial nigral neurons was greater and the number of Lewy bodies fewer in those PD patients who had been treated with selegiline in combination with levodopa as compared with patients who had received levodopa alone. This suggests that selegiline treatment may retard the death of nigral neurons, but alternative explanations, such as the reduction of levodopa dosage in selegiline-treated patients, are possible. 
Simultaneous measurement of all thrombosis parameters from native human blood: usefulness in monitoring efficacy and complications of thrombolytic therapy. The sequelae of thrombus formation, both by shear forces and by collagen fiber, the subsequent coagulation, and the dislodgement of thrombi (thrombolysis) were measured from a small volume of nonanticoagulated blood sample, by a new instrument. Addition of streptokinase (SK) or tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) to the blood sample eliminated the need for anticoagulation for thrombolysis measurement: clot lysis preceded and allowed thrombolysis to occur. The test revealed activation of platelets and coagulation by SK and rt-PA. Apart from this general trend, platelet reactivity in response to plasminogen activator showed great individual variation. Whether the greatly enhanced (42%) or prolonged hemostasis (13%), observed in different blood samples with rt-PA, could be used as a predictor of reocclusion or bleeding complications remains to be established. Thrombolysis did not occur in 12% of the samples tested. These thrombolysis models may be useful for developing new agents for the dissolution of platelet-rich thrombi. It is suggested that this technique be used for monitoring thrombolytic therapy. 
Carcinoma arising within fibroadenomas of the breast. A clinicopathologic study of 105 patients. The authors report the clinicopathologic features of 105 carcinomas arising within fibroadenomas (FAs) of the breast. The mean age of the patients was 44 years. The presentation and gross characteristics of these tumors rarely differed from those of uncomplicated FAs. Carcinoma in situ (CIS) was the predominant type of malignancy (95%) found to arise in FAs, and lobular and ductal types occurred with equal frequency. Nine of ten FAs harboring an invasive carcinoma also contained CIS supporting the origin of the infiltrative component in the FAs. CIS within FAs was associated with in situ malignancy in surrounding breast tissue in 21% of cases. Age, fibroadenoma size, and type and extent of CIS were similar in patients with disease limited to the FA and in those with associated malignant disease in the remainder of the breast. Axillary nodal metastases were not detected. Sixty-three patients were observed for a mean period of 8.4 years. Only one of 26 patients with CIS within an FA who was treated conservatively developed an ipsilateral carcinoma. None of the 26 developed contralateral carcinoma; however, 3 of 23 with similar lesions, who were treated by mastectomy, did so. The contralateral carcinomas were invasive in two patients, one of whom died with distant metastases. Seven patients with FAs harboring lobular CIS underwent bilateral mastectomy. Their postoperative course was uneventful. None of seven patients with invasive carcinoma arising in an FA, two of whom were treated conservatively, succumbed to disease. However, one developed contralateral carcinoma. The authors recommend breast-conserving therapy for CIS arising in an FA. 
A prostacyclin analog impairs the response to tissue-type plasminogen activator during coronary thrombolysis: evidence for a pharmacokinetic interaction. Inhibition of thromboxane (TX) A2 with aspirin enhances the response to coronary thrombolysis. However, experimental evidence suggests that platelet activation during coronary thrombolysis is mediated by a number of agonists, in addition to TXA2. As a consequence, greater benefit would be expected with antiplatelet agents that have a broader spectrum of activity. However, a recent clinical trial, combining tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) with the prostacyclin analog, iloprost, did not detect such a benefit. To address the mechanism of this response, we compared the effect of iloprost, a stable analog of prostacyclin, with GR32191, a TXA2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor antagonist, on the response to i.v. t-PA in a closed chest, canine model of coronary thrombosis. GR32191 reduced the time to reperfusion by 47% (n = 6, P less than .05), consistent with a role for TXA2-mediated platelet activation in impairing thrombolysis. In contrast, iloprost increased the time to reperfusion by 50% (n = 5, P = NS) and in four of nine animals reperfusion failed to occur despite inhibition of platelet aggregation. In a separate series of experiments, steady-state plasma t-PA clearance increased by 38% (407 +/- 49 vs. 294 +/- 42 ml/min; n = 8, P less than .02) during infusion of iloprost and recovered after its withdrawal. This appeared to be a specific effect, as infusion of nitroglycerin at a dose which induced a similar fall in blood pressure altered neither the time to reperfusion nor plasma t-PA. Iloprost impairs the thrombolytic response to t-PA via an increase in the clearance of this agent. 
Mucosal cell proliferation of the rectal stump in ulcerative colitis patients after ileorectal anastomosis. The proliferative activity and polyamine levels of the rectal epithelium in unoperated ulcerative colitis patients and in ulcerative colitis patients after total colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis were determined and compared with control subjects. Cell proliferation was evaluated in rectal biopsies by in vitro 3H thymidine incorporation by measuring the labeling index and the position of labeled cells along the crypt; polyamines were determined with a chromatographic method. In ulcerative colitis patients the labeling index was significantly increased, and labeled cells were shifted toward the upper part of the crypt when compared with controls. Ileorectal anastomosis patients showed a normalization of the labeling index and a distribution of labeled cells similar to controls. Polyamine levels were also increased in ulcerative colitis patients; in ileorectal anastomosis patients, the level of polyamines was decreased in respect to unoperated patients and return to normal values except for spermine. Because the increased proliferation and higher polyamine levels are related to increased colon cancer risk, our results confirm that ulcerative colitis is a risk factor for the development of carcinoma. Ileorectal anastomosis may reduce this risk through a normalization of mucosal cell proliferative activity and of some polyamine levels. 
Simultaneous ipsilateral vasal and epididymal reconstruction. Injuries to the spermatic cords, sustained during childhood inguinal hernioplasty, caused unilateral testicular atrophy, multiple bilateral excurrent duct obstruction and aspermia. Simultaneous unilateral vasal reconstruction and vaso-epididymostomy resulted in satisfactory semen parameters. It is expected that vasal integrity will be maintained after multiple reconstructive procedures at different locations if further injury to the vascular supply of the excurrent duct is avoided. 
Thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase stimulates collagen breakdown. BACKGROUND. Plasmin is capable of degrading extracellular matrix components such as collagen in vitro. To evaluate the significance of this for in vivo conditions, we set out to study the effect of streptokinase, which acts by converting plasminogen to plasmin, on the serum concentrations of the amino-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) and the carboxy-terminal propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP). METHODS AND RESULTS. Twenty-three patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction were included in the study; 17 of them received thrombolytic therapy, and six were treated conservatively. PIIINP and PICP were assayed with radioimmunoassays. Kinetics of creatine kinase-MB release were determined to differentiate reperfusers from nonreperfusers. Composite curves of creatine kinase-MB release were constructed for different patient subgroups. During streptokinase infusion the serum concentrations of PIIINP increased rapidly, with a maximum mean increase of 50% (from 2.2 +/- 0.2 to 3.3 +/- 0.3 micrograms/l) in 45 minutes. A similar increase was also observed in two patients who received thrombolytic therapy but did not subsequently develop any myocardial infarction determined on the basis of enzyme release. The relative increase in PIIINP during streptokinase treatment was higher in those acute myocardial infarction patients with probable reperfusion than those with nonprobable reperfusion. Corresponding changes in PIIINP were not seen in the control group. Two days later there was a second increase in serum PIIINP for both patient groups. This change coincided with a similar increase in PICP. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that streptokinase, probably by activation of plasminogen to plasmin, stimulates the breakdown of type III collagen during thrombolytic therapy. This phenomenon may decrease the risk of rethrombosis of the affected artery if the exposed collagen is responsible for thrombosis formation, but it could also be involved in the development of hemorrhagic complications during thrombolytic therapy. The second increase in PIIINP levels probably indicates type III collagen synthesis of the infarcted area. This investigation represents a pilot study, and more studies on the effects of various thrombolytic agents on interstitial collagen metabolism are obviously needed. 
Molecular basis of an autoantibody-associated restriction fragment length polymorphism that confers susceptibility to autoimmune diseases. Recently, combined serological and molecular studies of autoantibodies have revealed that these antibodies play an important role in the normal function of the immune system and in the development of the B cell repertoire. Accordingly, we hypothesized that a homozygous deletion of a critical autoantibody-associated Ig variable (V) gene may alter the immune system and thus predispose the host to autoimmune disorders. Initial experiments revealed several restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP) of the Humhv3005 gene, that is likely to encode heavy chains of rheumatoid factors, and the closely related 1.9III gene. By probing EcoR1-digested DNA with the Humhv3005/P1 probe, we found that one of the four major hybridizing bands was missing in approximately 20% of patients with either rheumatoid arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus, but only 2% of normal subjects. To delineate the genetic basis of this polymorphism, we have now employed the PCR to amplify and analyze hv3005, 1.9III, and homologous genes in individuals with characteristic RFLP genotypes. Our results indicate that the human Vh gene repertoire contains several hv3005- and 1.9III-like genes, and that a complete deletion of the hv3005-like genes is relatively restricted to a subset of autoimmune patients. These findings provide initial evidence for deletion of developmentally regulated autoreactive V genes in autoimmune diseases. 
Prognosis for recovery from prolonged posttraumatic unawareness: logistic analysis. This study reviews the course and outcome of 130 patients who remained in a state of prolonged unawareness 30 days after severe cranio-cerebral trauma. Prognostic indicators and outcome were fitted by a logistic model. The significant prognostic factors observable in the first week after trauma were found to be ventilatory status, motor reactivity and significant extraneural trauma. The significant prognostic factors after the first month of unawareness were early ventilatory status, early motor reactivity, late epilepsy and hydrocephalus. The estimated probability of recovery of awareness (that is, consciousness) ranged from 0.94 in patients with early decorticate posturing in the absence of both extraneural trauma and ventilatory disturbance to 0.06 in patients with flaccidity, extraneural trauma and ventilatory disturbance in the first week after injury. 
Antibiotic management of outpatients with endocarditis due to penicillin-susceptible streptococci. Thirty patients with endocarditis caused by penicillin-susceptible streptococci were enrolled in one of two groups in this study. Fifteen patients received ceftriaxone (2 g once daily) for 4 weeks; the other 15 received the same dosage of ceftriaxone for 2 weeks and then received oral amoxicillin (1 g four times a day) for 2 weeks. For the 27 patients treated predominantly as outpatients, 380 days of hospitalization were avoided. Clinical cure was achieved for all patients in both groups. We conclude that ceftriaxone, alone or followed by a course of amoxicillin, is an efficacious mode of treatment for infective endocarditis caused by penicillin-susceptible streptococci. Treatment with these agents can be administered predominantly on an outpatient basis. 
Endoscopic pulsed dye laser lithotripsy of gallbladder calculi in vivo. We have evaluated the efficacy and safety of pulsed dye laser lithotripsy of gallbladder calculi using a percutaneous endoscopic technique in a porcine model. Fragmentation was readily achieved in vivo. Using a combination of laser lithotripsy and saline lavage, complete removal of all stone debris was feasible through a 24 F tract (N = 3). However, the degree of fragmentation required rendered removal through a smaller tract inefficient, a mean 53% of stone mass being retrievable through a 16 F tract (N = 11). Repeated laser activation at 1 mm from the gallbladder mucosa produced minimal injury, regardless of pulse energy. When the laser fiber was pressed against the mucosa, perforation of the gallbladder was possible at therapeutic pulse energy, but this did not lead to clinical sequelae. We conclude that the pulsed dye laser is a safe and effective means of fragmenting gallbladder calculi in vivo. 
Temporal arteritis with normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is used to differentiate temporal arteritis from other forms of headache in the elderly. Though temporal arteritis can occur with a normal ESR, this is not generally appreciated in primary care. The case reported here is a 74-year-old woman with biopsy-proven temporal arteritis; her ESR was 22 mm/hr. Of note, her hematocrit was more than 40 percent, a condition previously reported to be associated with temporal arteritis and a normal ESR. This discussion focuses on the diagnosis of temporal arteritis and its associated symptoms. 
Giant neuroendocrine (Merkel cell) carcinoma of the skin. An 82-year-old woman had a dark red to purple tumor on the left buttock that had gradually enlarged during the last 5 years. Although routine histologic examination was not sufficient for diagnosis, neuroendocrine carcinoma was diagnosed by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies. Immunohistochemical-positive reactions to neurofilament, cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, and epithelial membrane antigen were noted. Electron microscopically, membrane-bound, dense core granules that yielded a positive uranaffin reaction and intermediate filaments in the perinuclear area were observed in the cytoplasm of most tumor cells. Desmosome-like structure between them was also found. Approximately 6 months after local excision, metastatic lesions developed in the regional lymph nodes and liver. 
Short-bowel syndrome in children. Quality of life in an era of improved survival. A number of disorders in childhood can result in short-bowel syndrome (small bowel length, less than 100 cm). Improved care has increased survival in patients with short-bowel syndrome, but the quality-of-life factors associated with such improved survival have not been examined, to our knowledge. Sixteen consecutive pediatric patients with short-bowel syndrome (bowel length range, 22 to 98 cm) were followed up for 2 to 10 years. The original diagnoses were as follows: necrotizing enterocolitis (n = 6), multiple intestinal atresias (n = 4), extensive aganglionosis (n = 2), meconium peritonitis (n = 2), and midgut volvulus (n = 2). The range of initial hospitalization was from 62 to 395 days, and 13 of 16 patients have required readmission (two to 14 times). All patients required multiple operations (range, two to 14 operations), including combinations of venous access, adhesiolysis, tapering enteroplasty, reversed intestinal segments, and pull-through procedure. Nine of 16 patients received home total parenteral nutrition, and 12 of 16 patients required home elemental diets, usually via pump feedings. Fifteen patients (94%) survived. Two survivors are deaf, and one of these has mild developmental delay. Seven survivors (age range, 6 to 10 years) attend a regular school, four while receiving total parenteral nutrition or an elemental diet. Ten of 15 survivors are off all nutritional support (including the child with a 22-cm small bowel), with four others weaning. The presence or absence of an ileocecal valve did not affect outcome. Modern nutritional support methods provide excellent survival and quality of life for children with short-bowel syndrome. 
Observations on massive retrieved human allografts. Radiographic and histological studies of sixteen massive retrieved human allografts were carried out after the allografts had been in situ for four to sixty-five months. The studies demonstrated that union between the allograft and the host took place slowly at cortical-cortical junctions by the formation of an external callus derived from the cortex of the host, and it took place more rapidly at cancellous-cancellous junctions by internal callus advancing from the host into the allograft. Internal repair took place very slowly, was confined to the superficial surface and the ends of the graft, and had involved only 20 per cent of the graft by five years. The deep unrepaired portions of the graft retained their architecture, and where bone cement had been used to fix a prosthetic stem or an intramedullary rod to the allograft, there was no evidence of resorption of bone or loosening of the device. Soft tissues of the host became attached to the graft by deposition of a thin seam of new bone on the surface of the graft. A previous fracture of two grafts had healed before the time of retrieval. Analysis of the articular cartilage revealed no evidence that any chondrocytes had survived, even when the graft had been cryoprotected before it was preserved by freezing. The necrotic cartilage functioned well for as long as five years, and as it degenerated, it was covered by a pannus of fibrovascular reparative tissue. Two allografts that had been removed because of rejection were surrounded by an envelope of chronic inflammatory tissue that prevented union, adherence of soft tissue, and internal repair. Internal repair was more advanced about sites of fracture and adjacent to recurrent tumors than in other portions of the graft. These findings suggest that large frozen allografts in humans are osteoconductive rather than osteoinductive. 
Diagnostic accuracy of exercise thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography in patients with left bundle branch block. Recent reports have proposed that abnormal apical or anterior wall perfusion with exercise thallium-201 imaging may increase diagnostic accuracy for disease of the left anterior descending artery in patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB). To evaluate these suggestions, 83 patients with LBBB who underwent thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography and coronary angiography within an interval of 3 months were retrospectively reviewed. There were 59 men and 24 women aged 33 to 84 years (mean 65). Myocardial perfusion to the apex, anterior wall and anterior septum were scored qualitatively by consensus of 2 experienced observers and by quantitative analysis in comparison with a normal data base. The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of perfusion defects in these segments were then expressed according to angiographic findings. Significant stenosis of vessels within the left anterior descending artery territory was present in 38 patients. By receiver-operator characteristic analysis, a fixed or reversible defect within the apex by the qualitative method was the best criterion for coronary artery disease. However, although highly sensitive (79 and 85% by the qualitative and quantitative methods, respectively), an apical defect was neither specific (38 and 16%, respectively), nor accurate (57 and 46%, respectively). Perfusion abnormalities in the anterior wall and septum were also of limited diagnostic accuracy. Thus, modified interpretative criteria in patients with LBBB are not clinically useful in the assessment of left anterior descending artery disease. 
Inner ear deafness in Wegener's granulomatosis. Autoimmune deafness represents a heterogeneous group of disorders in which there is though to be inner ear and/or middle ear damage mediated by various immunological abnormalities. We describe a patient with Wegener's granulomatosis in whom there was evidence of significant inner ear damage caused by vasculitis, which was completely reversed by cyclophosphamide and prednisolone. We propose that Wegener's granulomatosis is a cause of autoimmune deafness. 
NIT-1, a pancreatic beta-cell line established from a transgenic NOD/Lt mouse. NOD/Lt mice harboring a hybrid rat insulin-promoter/SV40 large T-antigen gene spontaneously develop beta-cell adenomas. NIT-1 is a pancreatic beta-cell line established from one of these transgenic mice. Immunocytochemical staining of passage 18 cells showed most contained insulin, with less than 5% containing glucagon, and none containing pancreatic polypeptide or somatostatin. Glucagon content radioimmunoassayed in cell extracts was only 0.27% of the insulin content. Two-hour insulin secretion at 16.5 mM glucose was 638 ng/10(6) cells (41% of intracellular content) compared to only 1.3 ng glucagon (32% of intracellular content). Stimulated insulin secretion was consistently observed in response to 11 and 16.5 mM glucose between passages 11 and 19. At passage 19, both theophylline and tolbutamide stimulated insulin secretion at 5.5 mM glucose. Northern-blot analysis confirmed high levels of insulin mRNA but only trace glucagon mRNA and undetectable somatostatin mRNA. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced MHC class I RNA expression was correlated with markedly increased antigen expression at the cell surface. Similarly, a MHC-linked "occult" class I-like antigen detected by Cr release assay only after exposure of standard NOD/Lt islet cells to IFN-gamma was strongly induced by IFN-gamma in NIT-1 cells. Cell surface MHC class II antigen was not constitutively expressed on NIT-1 cells and could not be detected after IFN-gamma incubation, despite demonstration of IFN-gamma-induced Aa, Ab, and Li invariant-chain RNA transcripts. Similarly IFN-gamma induction of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (Icam-1) transcripts was not accompanied by demonstrable cell surface expression of ICAM-1 antigen. 
The frequency and significance of ECG changes after transurethral prostate resection. Although many clinicians routinely recommend a base-line preoperative electrocardiogram (ECG) and obtain frequent postoperative ECGs to screen for myocardial infarction or ischemia, the diagnostic utility of screening perioperative ECGs is unknown. The present analysis evaluates the sensitivity and specificity of the perioperative ECG and examines its value as a predictor of early postoperative cardiac events and outcomes during the postoperative year. ECGs obtained preoperatively and on the first 3 postoperative days in 206 men undergoing transurethral prostate resection were analyzed using the Minnesota Code. The occurrence of cardiac events during the operative stay was assessed by measurement of the cardiospecific MB creatine kinase isoenzyme on the first 3 postoperative days and review of the entire clinical course. Twenty-one percent of patients developed postoperative ECG changes, mostly involving the T wave; none had cardiac symptoms or sustained creatine kinase MB elevation. Changes were not significantly more common in men known to have coronary disease. The single patient who had a perioperative myocardial infarction confirmed by enzymes had no codable ECG changes. The specificity of any ECG change for perioperative infarction was 78%; of ST segment changes only, 95%. Only one of the patients (2%) who had postoperative ECG changes had a cardiac event in the year after surgery. Routine perioperative ECGs is of little diagnostic/predictive utility in situations in which the incidence of perioperative myocardial infarction is low. 
Niemann-Pick type B disease. Identification of a single codon deletion in the acid sphingomyelinase gene and genotype/phenotype correlations in type A and B patients. Types A and B Niemann-Pick disease both result from the deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase, acid sphingomyelinase (E.C. 3.1.4.12). Type A Niemann-Pick disease is a severe neurodegenerative disorder of infancy which leads to death by three years of age, whereas Type B disease has a later age at onset, little or no neurologic involvement, and most patients survive into adulthood. To investigate the molecular basis for the remarkable phenotypic heterogeneity, the nature of the mutations causing Type B Niemann-Pick disease in Ashkenazi Jewish patients was determined. The entire acid sphingomyelinase coding region from an Ashkenazi Jewish Type B patient was polymerase chain reaction-amplified, subcloned, and completely sequenced. A three-base deletion was identified of nucleotides 1821-1823 in the cDNA which predicted the removal of an arginine residue from position 608 of the acid sphingomyelinase polypeptide (delta R608). The other cDNA clones from this patient had the R496L mutation previously identified in Type A Niemann-Pick disease patients. Both Ashkenazi Jewish Type B patients were heteroallelic for the delta R608 mutation, whereas this allele was not present in 15 unrelated non-Jewish Type B patients, with the notable exception of one mildly affected patient of Arabic descent who was homoallelic for the delta R608 mutation. These results indicate that the delta R608 mutation predicts the Type B Niemann-Pick disease phenotype, even in the presence of the R496L Type A allele, thereby providing the first genotype/phenotype correlation for this lysosomal storage disease. Although only two patients have been studied, it appears that the delta R608 mutation occurs frequently in Type B Niemann-Pick disease patients of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. 
Development of a highly specific and sensitive molecular probe for detection of cutaneous lymphoma. Using DNA from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of a patient with mycosis fungoides, a highly specific and sensitive molecular probe for the malignant lymphoid cells of this patient was developed. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to selectively amplify the region of the rearrangement of TCR-gamma genes. Randomly inserted nucleotides between rearranged segments (N-region) were used as a specific marker for the malignant lymphoid clone of this patient. Clonal cells in paraffin-embedded tissue of previous and later biopsies were detected. This technique provides a new and unique tool for retrospective detection of early evolving cutaneous lymphoma, as well as for detection of minimal residual and systemic disease. 
Intraoperative transesophageal Doppler color flow imaging used to guide patient selection and operative treatment of ischemic mitral regurgitation. BACKGROUND. Intraoperative transesophageal Doppler color flow imaging (TDCF) affords the opportunity to assess mitral valve competency immediately before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). The purpose of this study was to assess the utility of TDCF to assist in the selection and operative treatment of ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR). METHODS AND RESULTS. Two hundred forty-six patients undergoing surgery for ischemic heart disease were prospectively studied. All had preoperative cardiac catheterization. Catheterization and pre-CPB TDCF were discordant in their estimation of MR in 112 patients (46%). Compared with patients in whom both techniques agreed in estimation of MR, patients with discordance in MR were more likely to have had unstable clinical syndromes at the time of catheterization (79% versus 40%, p less than 0.05) or to have received thrombolytics (16% versus 8%, p less than 0.05). Pre-CPB TDCF resulted in a change in the operative plan with respect to the mitral valve in 27 patients (11%). Because less MR was found by TDCF than catheterization, 22 patients had only coronary bypass grafting when combined coronary bypass and mitral valve surgery had been planned. Because more MR was found by TDCF than catheterization, five patients had combined coronary bypass and mitral valve surgery when coronary bypass alone had been planned. Unsatisfactory results noted by TDCF following mitral valve surgery in five patients resulted in immediate corrective surgery. Cox regression analysis identified residual MR at the completion of surgery to be an important predictor of survival (chi 2 = 21.4) after surgery--more important than patient age (chi 2 = 8.3) or left ventricular ejection fraction (chi 2 = 5.3). CONCLUSIONS. These results indicate that TDCF is useful in guiding patient selection and operative treatment of ischemic MR and that in such patients, intraoperative TDCF should be performed routinely. 
Special considerations in the physical exam of older patients. For diagnostic utility, aspects of the standard physical examination are modified for elderly patients. Special attention is paid to problems that interfere with function, such as gait disorders, incontinence, and hearing and visual loss. Certain findings in cardiac and pulmonary examinations of the elderly require different interpretations. The examination should include the head and neck, chest, back, abdomen, breasts and pelvic area in women, prostate in men, extremities, and skin, as well as mental status. A number of diagnostic maneuvers are used to distinguish changes of normal aging from those associated with disease. 
Thumbtack use for control of presacral bleeding, with description of an instrument for thumbtack application. There is well-known difficulty in controlling hemorrhage from presacral vessels. There are reports on the use of thumbtacks to secure hemostasis in the face of presacral hemorrhage. This communication reports the successful use of thumbtacks to establish presacral hemostasis and describes a simple instrument designed to afford easier and more precise anterior sacral application of thumbtacks. The instrument is easy to make. It was devised because of difficulty encountered with manual placement of hemostatic thumbtacks and the absence of totally satisfactory delivery by any of the standard surgical instruments available. 
Suburethral paraganglioma. Masses presenting beneath the urethra are not uncommon. Besides ureteral diverticula, which account for the vast majority of these masses, a multiplicity of heterogeneous benign and malignant tumors have been encountered in this region. To the best of our knowledge, we report the first case of a neuroendocrine tumor, a paraganglioma, discovered in the anatomical compartment between the urethra and vagina. When evaluating a patient with a suburethral mass, it is important to consider paraganglioma as part of the differential diagnosis because unwitting surgical removal of a functional catecholamine-secreting tumor may precipitate a severe hypotensive episode and/or death. 
The use of anterior Caspar plate fixation in acute cervical spine injury. Optimal management of cervical cord injury in the presence of documented instability and/or compression of neural elements remains a controversial topic. Surgery and internal stabilization of cervical spine fracture/dislocations are effective and well accepted, but controversy exists on the relative merits of the anterior versus the posterior approach as well as the optimal timing of surgical intervention. We report our experience with the Caspar technique and instrumentation for anterior stabilization in 54 patients for acute cervical spine injury. Our series consists of 38 male and 16 female patients whose ages ranged from 16 to 68 years, with a mean age of 29.2 years. Thirty-two of these patients had complete neurological sensory/motor deficits at the time of presentation, eight were neurologically intact, and 14 had preservation of some motor and sensory function. All 54 patients had radiographic evidence of posterior instability as well as anterior disruption of either a vertebral body or intervertebral disk. We found that "early" intervention (less than 24 hours after injury) was performed frequently in the neurologically compromised patients. Twelve of the 22 patients undergoing surgery less than 24 hours after admission regained significant neurological function, with 13 of 22 developing postoperative complications. In the "delayed" group (surgery more than 24 hours after injury, mean 14.3 days), 14 patients experienced postoperative complications, with 15 of 24 demonstrating neurological improvement. The eight patients who were intact did uniformly well. There was no mortality during the follow-up. All 54 patients showed a solid fusion (clinically and radiologically) within 6 months of surgery. In two cases the plates had to be removed, without risking the fusion. Our experience suggests that although anterior cervical fusion and Caspar plating remain appropriate for patients with documented anterior compromise of the canal, it should not substitute for more traditional posterior stabilization procedures. Because this route has the potential for more serious complications, it should be reserved for the cases in which anterior decompression is deemed necessary or posterior fusion was unsuccessful. With appropriate selection of patients, no adverse effect of early surgery was demonstrated. In fact, neurologically compromised patients had the benefits of increased ease of patient care and early transfer to rehabilitation. 
Open, double-blind and long-term study of vigabatrin in chronic epilepsy. We performed an open, double-blind, and long-term study of vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl-GABA, GVG) in patients with treatment-resistant epilepsy who were receiving only one or at most two standard antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The novel design included a parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase that minimized the number of patients receiving placebo and allowed determination of the optimum dose of GVG for each patient before initiation of the double-blind phase. The study was divided into four phases. The first phase was a 6-week period of baseline observation. In the second phase, GVG was added openly to previous AEDs for 8 weeks. During the first 2 weeks of this phase, the dose of GVG was increased weekly and then, in the absence of adverse effects, was held constant for the next 6 weeks. At the end of this open phase, seizure frequency during the 6 weeks of constant treatment was compared with the baseline seizure frequency for each patient. Patients who experienced reduction greater than 50% in the frequency of any seizure type during the open phase were defined as responders. These responders were then entered into the third and double-blind phase, in which they were randomly allocated wither to continue active GVG treatment or placebo for 8 weeks. Thirty-three patients entered the study; 31 of 33 patients completed the initial open phase. Twenty patients achieved a reduction greater than or equal to 50% in the frequency of one or more seizure types and were eligible for the double-blind phase; 10 were randomized to continue GVG and 10 were randomized to placebo. 
Spatial contrast sensitivity is reduced in bilateral Parkinson's disease. We studied the contrast sensitivity functions of 41 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) with a wide range of parkinsonian symptomatology (Hoehn and Yahr stages 1 to 4) and 22 age-matched control subjects in a parametric design. Results demonstrated reduced contrast sensitivity in PD patients but only in those patients who had progressed beyond Hoehn and Yahr stage 1. Furthermore, there were deficits in contrast sensitivity related to the severity of PD. 
Proliferation of normal breast epithelial cells as shown by in vivo labeling with bromodeoxyuridine. The proliferative activity of normal acinar and ductal breast epithelial cells was studied by in vivo labeling with 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd) in 26 cases with concurrent breast carcinoma. The BrdUrd-labeled cells were recognized in histologic sections of paraffin-embedded tissue, using an anti-BrdUrd antibody and an immunoperoxidase reaction. The percentage of BrdUrd-labeled cells showed great variability for both acinar (0% to 2.66%; mean, 0.70%; standard deviation [SD], 0.80%) and ductal cells (0% to 1.99%; mean, 0.51%; SD, 0.57%). The fraction of proliferating epithelial cells declined with the age of the patients and was significantly higher in premenopausal women (1.16% +/- 0.85% for acinar and 0.94% +/- 0.60% for ductal cells) as compared with the postmenopausal women (0.27% +/- 0.46% for acinar and 0.17% +/- 0.22% for ductal cells), P less than 0.01 for acinar and P less than 0.001 for ductal cells, respectively. In some patients, great variability in distribution of proliferating acinar and ductal cells among different lobules and ducts was observed. No difference was found in the number of proliferating acinar and ductal cells situated near or far from their corresponding tumors. No correlation was seen between cell proliferation of normal acinar or ductal cells and cell proliferation of the respective tumors. 
The safety of intraaortic balloon pump catheter insertion through suprainguinal prosthetic vascular bypass grafts. To determine the safety of intraaortic balloon pump catheter insertion for critical coronary ischemia through suprainguinal prosthetic bypass grafts, we examined our experience of 19 intraaortic balloon pumps placed through grafts in 17 patients by means of surgical exposure (8) or the percutaneous (11) approach. Fourteen intraaortic balloon pumps were placed through matured grafts at a time remote (2 to 13 years; mean, 7 years) from their vascular bypass surgery. Five were inserted through nonmatured grafts during the same hospitalization as their vascular reconstructive surgery (1 to 12 days; mean, 4 days). One patient, a day after an aortoiliac bypass, died during an urgent, surgical intraaortic balloon pump insertion for cardiogenic shock. All other patients had prompt reversal of their cardiac ischemia. Decreased limb perfusion developed during use of the intraaortic balloon pump in three patients, all of whom had their intraaortic balloon pump placed percutaneously through mature grafts. Two of these required surgical thrombectomy. Ten intraaortic balloon pump insertions in eight patients survived the hospitalization and were followed for a mean of 24 months (range, 2 weeks to 64 months). No localized groin or graft infections were identified. No bleeding complications or pseudoaneurysms occurred. Thus in patients with unstable, severe, cardiac disease, intraaortic balloon pumps can be safely placed through indwelling suprainguinal bypass grafts. 
Vasculitis. A practical approach to management. Vasculitis encompasses a wide variety of diseases. Because diagnosis may be difficult, a careful evaluation is essential, including a detailed patient history, thorough physical examination, and appropriate laboratory studies. Diagnosis is based on clinicopathologic features that permit identification of the condition. Biopsies are often necessary to confirm a diagnosis. It is important to accurately categorize the vasculitic disorders, since prompt, aggressive therapy with potentially toxic drugs is necessary to avoid irreversible organ system dysfunction. 
Family and peer issues among adolescents with spina bifida and cerebral palsy. Increasingly, children with disabling conditions are surviving through childhood into adolescence and beyond. This places increased importance on understanding adolescent, family, and peer relationships, which are critical to healthy development among adolescents in general and to transitions to successful adulthood among youths with physical disabilities in particular. The purpose of this study was to identify the patterns of family and peer interactions. One hundred two youths with spina bifida and 60 adolescents with cerebral palsy between the ages of 12 and 22 completed written psychological measures as well as an in-depth structured interview. Approximately 90% of youths with spina bifida and cerebral palsy resided at home, of whom 80.4% and 72% lived with both parents. Almost without exception, parental relationships were defined as positive, with no difference of attitude noted toward the mother and father. Relationships with parents for teenagers with spina bifida were marked by high levels of dependence on parents for personal care such as bowel programs and, for both groups, low levels of responsibility at home and lack of discussion with parents about sexuality or menstruation. Although friends were viewed as very important by most respondents (approximately 83%), relationships were characterized by extremely limited out-of-school contacts, negligible participation with organized social activities, and a primary orientation toward sedentary activities. Finally, regarding heterosexual relationships, whereas 44.1% of respondents with spina bifida and 54.2% of respondents with cerebral palsy said their friends dated, only 14.7% and 28.3% of study participants indicated that they had ever been on a date and, even for those teenagers, heterosexual social contacts were infrequent. 
Barrett's esophagus and adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. Since 1985, 57 patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal (GE) junction have undergone surgical resection. In this group, 16 of the tumors arose in a Barrett's esophagus. There was a significant predilection toward white men above the age of 55 (15/16; 94%) in this subgroup. The mean proximal extent of abnormal columnar involvement was 5.4 cm above the gastroesophageal junction (range 2.5 to 11 cm). The mean location of the neoplasm centered in the distal esophagus 1.8 +/- 0.5 cm above the gastroesophageal junction. During the same time period, 30 patients with Barrett's esophagus were seen without associated adenocarcinoma. There were no statistical differences in the proximal extent of columnar involvement or the presence of reflux symptoms between the two groups. There were no significant differences in age, smoking history, and alcohol consumption between patients with benign or malignant Barrett's esophagus as compared to those with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction not associated with Barrett's mucosa. The marked male predominance seen in the group with malignant Barrett's esophagus was in contrast to the benign cases (16/30; 53%) but was similar to the adenocarcinoma group, without recognized Barrett's esophagus (38/41; 93%). The mean location of the tumor in the latter was 0.9 +/- 1.2 cm above the gastroesophageal junction and was comparable to the location in the group with Barrett's adenocarcinoma. The 4-year survival rate of patients in the non-Barrett's adenocarcinoma group is approximately 30%. Of those with Barrett's adenocarcinoma, the present 4-year survival rate is 60%. The demographic and morphometric similarities between the Barrett's and non-Barrett's adenocarcinoma groups may be of primary importance in determining the true clinical prevalence of Barrett's adenocarcinoma. Our findings suggest that the sensitivity of endoscopic surveillance may be improved if biopsy specimens are concentrated within the distal 3 cm of the esophagus and the esophagogastric junction. Finally, the reason for the current difference in survival between the Barrett's and non-Barrett's adenocarcinoma groups is uncertain but may be related to endoscopic surveillance permitting earlier diagnosis and treatment. 
Selective peripheral denervation for torticollis: preliminary results Herein we report the preliminary results in nine patients who have undergone selective peripheral denervation for spasmodic torticollis and have been followed up for at least 13 months. All patients had improvement immediately after surgical intervention, and the results have been maintained in five patients. In one patient who had recurrent torticollis, a second procedure in conjunction with injection of botulinum toxin has produced substantial improvement; however, follow-up was brief (6 months). No surgical complications occurred. We believe that selective peripheral denervation is safe and that it can benefit patients with torticollis who have not responded to other types of therapy. These favorable results confirm other published reports on the efficacy of selective peripheral denervation. Long-term follow-up, however, is necessary for determining the role of this procedure in the management of torticollis. 
Hemodynamics in the prone jackknife position during surgery. We examined the hemodynamic changes occurring with prone jackknife positioning during colorectal surgery. The operative procedure was restorative proctocolectomy with ileal J-pouch anal anastomosis in five patients with adenomatosis coli and six patients with ulcerative colitis and anoabdominal resection of the rectum with colonic J-pouch anal anastomosis in eight patients with rectal cancer. Nineteen patients (10 men and 9 women aged 41 +/- 19 years) were monitored with arterial and Swan-Ganz catheters during positioning. Measurements were obtained in the supine and prone positions (1 minute, 3 minutes), and the jackknife position (1, 3, 5, and 10 minutes), as well as before and after adoption of the Lloyd-Davies position (1, 3, 5, and 10 minutes). Turning the patient from the supine position to the prone position resulted in a significant decrease in the cardiac index (CI). However, following head-down rotation, the CI increased and returned to the value seen in the supine position (p less than 0.05). Heart rate (HR) slowed and mean arterial pressure (MAP) increased in the prone jackknife position. We concluded that the extent of the changes in cardiac function presented no serious problems. 
The effect of endoscopic laser therapy on survival in patients with squamous-cell carcinoma of the esophagus. Further experience. Although endoscopic laser therapy is effective for symptom palliation in esophageal cancer, few studies have investigated its effect on survival. We previously reported a 300% improvement in survival in 10 patients with squamous-cell carcinoma of the esophagus after endoscopic Nd:YAG laser energy. We now report a study to determine if the survival advantage persisted after treating an additional 26 patients. Thirty-six patients with squamous-cell carcinoma of the esophagus treated with endoscopic laser therapy were compared to 20 controls identified by our hospital Tumor Registry. There was no difference between the groups with respect to age, sex, race, location of tumor, or clinical stage. More control patients (25%) had previously undergone surgery than laser patients (0%) (p less than 0.05). Survival analysis demonstrated a significant improvement in overall survival (p less than 0.05), with an improvement in median survival from 5.7 to 9.7 months (p less than 0.05). One-year survival was 38% in laser patients, compared to 20% in control patients. Our experience continues to demonstrate that endoscopic laser therapy is effective in prolonging life as well as palliating the symptoms of patients with squamous-cell esophageal carcinoma. 
Linear nevus sebaceous syndrome: megalencephaly and heterotopic gray matter. A 3-month-old white male with linear nevus sebaceous syndrome (LNSS), facial deformities, brain malformations, and cortical blindness is presented. Facial deformities included left ear hypertrophy and a left-sided hamartomatous neck mass. Magnetic resonance imaging suggested that a central nervous system (CNS) abnormality, involving gray and white matter, should be linked with LNSS. Magnetic resonance imaging was more useful than computed tomography in demonstrating the full spectrum of CNS anomalies, including unilateral lissencephaly, a paucity of white matter, excessive and heterotopic gray matter, apparent left schizencephaly, and unilateral left colpocephaly (dilation of atrium and posterior horn of lateral ventricle). Postmortem examination revealed left hemisphere megalencephaly with a dilated posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. The impressive gray matter heterotopias likely were the source of the patient's seizures and perhaps the ultimate cause of death. Megalencephaly and other deviations of neuronal migration should be considered as a dramatic component of LNSS. 
Evaluation and treatment of aneurysms of the vertebral artery: different strategies for different lesions. Aneurysms of the vertebral artery and its branches are relatively uncommon lesions. Their anatomy and presentation can be quite variable. A spectrum of aneurysms of the vertebral artery is presented to illustrate the neuroradiological evaluation, surgical treatment, and perioperative management of these complex lesions. 
Autoimmune Addison's disease and thyrotoxic thyroiditis presenting as encephalopathy in twins. An 11 year old boy who presented with neuropsychiatric symptoms including delirium and pronounced agitation was found to have simultaneous onset of autoimmune adrenocortical insufficiency and hyperthyroidism. His identical twin also had hyperthyroidism and six months later developed symptoms of adrenocortical insufficiency. In children presenting with neuropsychiatric symptoms, adrenal (or pituitary) and other endocrine disorders should be considered. 
Evidence for WT1 as a Wilms tumor (WT) gene: intragenic germinal deletion in bilateral WT. The inactivation of two alleles at a locus on the short arm of chromosome 11 (band 11p13) has been suggested to be critical steps in the development of Wilms tumor (WT), a childhood kidney tumor. Two similar candidate WT cDNA clones (WT33 and LK15) have recently been identified on the basis of both their expression in fetal kidney and their location within the smallest region of overlap of somatic 11p13 deletions in some tumors. These homozygous deletions, however, are large and potentially affect more than one gene. Using a cDNA probe to the candidate gene, we have analyzed DNA from both normal and tumor tissue from WT patients, in an effort to detect rearrangements at this locus. We report here a patient with bilateral WT who is heterozygous for a small (less than 11 kb) germinal deletion within this candidate gene. DNA from both tumors is homozygous for this intragenic deletion allele, which, by RNA-PRC sequence analysis, is predicted to encode a protein truncated by 180 amino acids. These data support the identification of this locus as an 11p13 WT gene (WT1) and provide direct molecular data supporting the two-hit mutational model for WT. 
Membranous nephropathy related to hepatitis B virus in adults. BACKGROUND. The natural course of adult hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related membranous nephropathy in areas where HBV infection is endemic (characterized by vertical and horizontal transmission of HBV in early childhood) has not been fully defined. METHODS. We evaluated the clinical features, pathological findings, serologic profiles, therapeutic responses, and prognoses of 21 patients with adult-onset HBV-related membranous nephropathy. The patients were followed for a mean of 60 months (range, 12 to 108). Only patients with evidence of glomerular capillary deposition of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) in a renal-biopsy specimen were included. RESULTS. The clinical features and serologic studies suggested that the patients had acquired chronic HBV infection in early childhood; moreover, other causes of membranous nephropathy had been excluded. All were seropositive for hepatitis B surface antigen and had high titers of antibody to hepatitis B core antigen at first clinical presentation. HBeAg was detected in the serum of 17 patients (81 percent), yet only 3 had even slightly increased plasma alanine aminotransferase levels. The clinical response to therapy with interferon alfa was disappointing; only one of the five patients treated had a complete remission with seroconversion to antibody to HBeAg. Contrary to reports of studies in children, spontaneous remission of the nephrotic syndrome or proteinuria was uncommon in the adults with HBV-related membranous nephropathy whom we studied. Proteinuria and HBV antigenemia persisted in untreated patients. During the follow-up period, 29 percent of the patients had progressive renal failure and 10 percent required maintenance dialysis therapy. CONCLUSIONS. The course of HBV-related membranous nephropathy in adults in areas where HBV is endemic is not benign. Regardless of treatment, the disease has a slowly but relentlessly progressive clinical course in approximately one third of patients. 
Bilateral nephrectomy before transplantation: indications, surgical approach, morbidity and mortality. Forty patients with end-stage renal failure, who had undergone simultaneous bilateral native nephrectomy before a subsequent renal transplant operation, were reviewed with particular reference to the indications and surgical approach for bilateral nephrectomy and to the complications of the procedure. The main indications for bilateral nephrectomy are hypertension resistant to medical therapy, persistent symptomatic renal infection, severe renal protein loss and occasionally polycystic kidneys or bilateral renal tumours. In this consecutive series of 40 patients both kidneys were removed because of chronic pyelonephritis with reflux (n = 28), glomerulonephritis with reflux (n = 9) and uncontrolled hypertension (n = 3). Surgical morbidity was less in patients who had bilateral nephrectomy performed through bilateral vertical lumbotomy incisions. There was no surgical mortality. 
Effect of i.v. midazolam on the ventilatory response to sustained hypoxia in man. The ventilatory response to isocapnic, sustained hypoxia is characterized by initial hyperventilation followed by ventilatory decline. The ventilatory response to isocapnic sustained hypoxia during i.v. administration of midazolam was assessed in five healthy subjects. Compared with control experiments, the hyperventilatory effect of hypoxia was not decreased following administration of midazolam. The hypoxic ventilatory change was significantly greater with midazolam because of a decrease in tidal volume. 
Hypertension as a risk factor for renal disease. Review of clinical and epidemiological evidence Renal failure is a well-recognized complication of accelerated and malignant hypertension that can be prevented by appropriate antihypertensive therapy. The risk of renal disease in patients with milder forms of hypertension is less certain. Death certificate, insurance industry, and community-based observational studies provide little information with respect to the risk of kidney damage in the hypertensive patient. Randomized controlled trials of antihypertensive drug therapy provide equivocal results. The strongest evidence in support of the hypothesis that mild hypertension increases the risk of subsequent renal disease comes from analyses of the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program and the Medicare End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Program. The risk of blood pressure-related ESRD appears to be especially high in blacks, independent of age, sex, and prevalence of hypertension. Although these results need to be confirmed, the data raise the possibility that the effects of high blood pressure on the kidney are different in blacks than in whites. Based on current trends, it is projected that the number of beneficiaries in the Medicare ESRD Program will continue to increase during the next 30-40 years and that the diagnosis of hypertensive ESRD will become increasingly common. Additional studies to characterize the relation between mild hypertension and subsequent risk of renal disease and to confirm the corresponding benefits of antihypertensive therapy are urgently needed. 
Sudden cardiac death: management of high-risk patients Sudden cardiac death remains a leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for more than 350,000 deaths each year, and the survival rate of victims remains low. Most survivors face a significant risk for recurrence. The typical substrate is chronic--abnormal myocardium with fibrosis (often from previous myocardial infarction) and left ventricular dysfunction. Acute triggers for sudden cardiac death are primarily electrical, ischemic, metabolic, neurohormonal, and pharmacologic. In most electrocardiographically documented cases of sudden cardiac death, the trigger-substrate interaction appears to result in ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation. After initial resuscitation, survivors need a thorough cardiovascular evaluation, including definition of coronary anatomy, left ventricular function, and wall-motion abnormalities, as well as an electrophysiologic evaluation. An attempt must be made to determine what each survivor's correctable triggers are. Management should address all reversible triggers, such as acute ischemia and electrolyte abnormalities, and should include modifying or correcting the arrhythmogenic substrate. Empiric antiarrhythmic therapy offers no advantage in such modification. Pharmacologic therapy with antiarrhythmic drugs should be guided by an objective therapeutic endpoint, which is best accomplished through the use of programmed ventricular stimulation and serial electrophysiologic studies. Other therapeutic options include surgical suppression of ventricular tachycardia and implantation of a cardioverter defibrillator. 
Myocardial protection with Hamburg oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution for multiple coronary bypass and multivalvular replacement. We evaluated myocardial protection with Hamburg oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution in a double study. Part I was a prospective metabolic study, measuring myocardial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and creatine phosphate (CP) contents before and after ischemia in 30 coronary bypass (CABG) patients. During ischemia, CP levels decreased significantly, whereas ATP did not. After 10 minute of reperfusion, mean ATP contents were 90% of preischemic values and CP levels increased to 85% of preischemic values. Spontaneous myocardial defibrillation was seen in 93.3% of patients. Part II included evaluation of early postischemic myocardial function in 228 patients, 48 with multiple valve replacement (MUVR) and 180 with CABG. Spontaneous myocardial defibrillation was seen in 90.3%. Cardiac index, measured before and 1 and 12 hours after surgery, increased significantly in the postischemic period (from 1.95 +/- 0.9 to 2.5 +/- 0.7 l/min m2 in MUVR, p 0.04; from 2.2 +/- 0.6 to 2.7 +/- 0.7 l/min/m2 in CABG, p 0.01). Myocardial infarction frequency was 3% among CABG patients, and unrelated to the number of distal anastomosis or to aortic cross-clamp time. Early postoperative mortality was 6.2% for MUVR and 0.5% for CABG. Thus, oxygenated cardioplegia with Hamburg solution preserves high-energy phosphate compounds and prevents ischemic injury, with excellent short-term clinical results. 
Argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions and alpha-fetoprotein in adenomatous hyperplasia in human cirrhotic livers. Recently, adenomatous hyperplasia (AH) of the liver has been suspected as a precancerous lesion in human hepatocarcinogenesis. The authors examined 75 cases of AH from 42 cirrhotic livers, using staining of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs). These reflect proliferative cell activity. Findings in AH were compared with those seen in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and other chronic liver diseases. Expression of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was also examined immunohistochemically. The authors classified AH into three types: ordinary (OAH), atypical (AAH), and AH with focal malignancy (FM). OAH implies a lack of atypia; AAH represents AH with structural and cellular atypia but without the features of overt carcinoma; and FM denotes AH with foci of overt HCC. Forty of the 75 cases of AH were categorized as OAH, 19 as AAH, and 16 as FM. The noncancerous areas of FM had features of AAH. The mean number of AgNORs in AH was intermediate between that seen in cirrhosis (2.93) and HCC (6.18) and showed a step-wise increase in the following order: OAH (2.95), AAH (3.89), noncancerous areas in FM (4.58), and malignant foci in FM (5.71). There was no significant difference in AgNOR counts between OAH and cirrhosis. AgNOR counts in AAH and FM were significantly higher than those of OAH, and lower than those of HCC. AFP was positive in 12 of 25 HCCs and in malignant foci of 3 FM lesions, but it was absent in OAH and AAH. These data suggest that OAH has a limited capacity for proliferation but that AAH and FM are much more replicative. The latter two conditions are probably preneoplastic lesions or early forms of HCC. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma in Italian patients with cirrhosis BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Patients with cirrhosis of the liver are recognized as being at risk for hepatocellular carcinoma. The magnitude of the risk, the natural history of this disease, and the possibilities for detecting potentially curable tumors in patients in the Western world are unknown. To address these questions, we examined 447 Italian patients with well-compensated cirrhosis (which was of viral origin in 62 percent of them) from 1985 through 1990, performing serum alpha-fetoprotein assays and real-time ultrasonography every 3 to 12 months. RESULTS. Hepatocellular carcinoma was found in 30 patients (7 percent) at base line and in another 29 patients (7 percent of 417 patients free of tumor at base line) during follow-up periods averaging 33 months (range, 1 to 48). The cumulative hazard of the development of hepatocellular carcinoma during follow-up was higher among patients with persistently elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein levels (12 with tumors among 42 with such levels) than among those with fluctuating levels (11 among 82) or those with consistently normal levels (6 among 255). Only 17 patients had potentially operable tumors. The proportion of potentially operable tumors among those detected during follow-up was significantly lower than the proportion at enrollment (4 of 29 vs. 13 of 30, P = 0.027). The survival at one year of the 12 patients who underwent surgery was 67 percent, and the tumor-recurrence rate was 60 percent. Outcome was not appreciably different for the five patients who refused surgery. CONCLUSIONS. In the West, as in Asia, patients with cirrhosis of the liver are at substantial risk for hepatocellular carcinoma, with a yearly incidence rate of 3 percent. Our screening program did not appreciably increase the rate of detection of potentially curable tumors. 
Dual modulation of 5-fluorouracil using leucovorin and hydroxyurea. A phase I trial. Oral hydroxyurea (HU) was added to a regimen of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) plus leucovorin (LCV) administered as a continuous 24-hour infusion for 14 days. A previous report of the 5-FU plus LCV infusion established optimal dosages of 200 mg/m2/d and 5 mg/m2/d, respectively, for each agent. Oral HU was added to the regimen in total dosages of 0.5 g/d, 1.0 g/d, 1.5 g/d, or 2.0 g/d. Twenty-two patients received a total of 45 courses of treatment. Stomatitis was the dose-limiting side effect; it occurred in 3 of 14 courses with HU at 0.5 g/d (21%) and 9 of 17 courses with HU at 1.0 g/d (53%). Dosage escalation to 1.5 g/d or 2.0 g/d was possible in only 3 of 22 patients (17%). The median time to stomatitis was 10 days (range, 7 to 12 days). One response was observed in this heavily pretreated population. Phase II trials of HU plus LCV dual modulation of infusional 5-FU should use initial HU dosages of 0.5 g/d for the 14-day regimen described, with dose escalation as tolerated. Variable oral absorption presumably accounts for the small group of patients who can tolerate the higher doses of HU. 
Preservation of urine voiding and sexual function after rectal cancer surgery In order to decrease the urinary and sexual morbidity which follows radical pelvic lymphadenectomy for rectal cancer, we began selective preservation of the pelvic autonomic nerves. Between 1985 and 1987, 134 patients with rectal cancer underwent a curative resection (52 abdominoperineal resections, 82 sphincter-saving resections) with extended pelvic lymphadenectomy and selective pelvic autonomic nerve preservation (PANP). PANP was classified into five degrees depending on the extent of pelvic dissection. First-degree PANP indicates complete preservation of the nerves; second-degree PANP indicates destruction of the hypogastric plexus: third-degree PANP indicates partial preservation of the pelvic autonomic plexus; fourth-degree PANP indicates bilateral or unilateral preservation of only the fourth pelvic parasympathetic nerve; and fifth-degree PANP indicates complete destruction of the pelvic autonomic nerves. Most patients with first-degree PANP were able to spontaneously void 7-10 days following the operation. However, 78 percent (28/36) of patients with fifth-degree PANP had not regained bladder sensation by the third postoperative week and were discharged with an indwelling catheter; 58 percent (21/36) had not regained bladder sensation by the 60th postoperative day. The cystometric data indicate a progressive decline in bladder sensation and function with increasingly extensive pelvic dissection. However, preservation of only the fourth parasympathetic nerve (fourth-degree PANP) resulted in partial sparing of bladder sensation and voiding function. Evaluation of sexual function in males under 60 years of age revealed that only 31 percent (12/39) recovered erectile function and only 19 percent (6/39) recovered normal ejaculatory function in the first postoperative year. Most of these patients had complete preservation of their pelvic autonomic plexus (i.e., first-degree PANP). Four patients with partial PANP have recovered erectile function. Complete PANP is the best way to prevent urinary and sexual morbidity after rectal resection. The opposing goals of maximizing the chance for cure and minimizing morbidity must be individualized and balanced in each patient. Our data demonstrate that it is now possible to perform radical pelvic lymphadenectomy in the majority of patients with advanced rectal cancer with a minimum of voiding dysfunction. Preservation of sexual function in males is more difficult and depends on complete PANP and, as such, should be restricted to the group of patients with Dukes' A and B carcinomas. 
Comparison of the combined effects of atropine and neostigmine with atropine and edrophonium on the lower oesophageal sphincter. In two groups (n = 11) of healthy patients, we have measured gastric, lower oesophageal and barrier pressures before and after antagonism of neuromuscular block during anaesthesia with nitrous oxide and isoflurane. In one group, atropine 1.2 mg and neostigmine 2.5 mg were given and in the second group atropine 0.6 mg with edrophonium 1 mg/kg. One minute after administration of the reversal agents, there was a significantly greater reduction in barrier pressures in the neostigmine and atropine group than in the edrophonium and atropine group, but subsequently, there was no significant difference between the two groups. We conclude that there is no clinical difference between the two reversal mixtures in terms of the risk of regurgitation in the immediate period after reversal. 
Hepatic focal nodular hyperplasia: specific findings at dynamic contrast-enhanced US with carbon dioxide microbubbles. Dynamic contrast material-enhanced ultrasonography (US) with intraarterial infusion of carbon dioxide microbubbles was performed for four cases of histologically proved focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) in four patients and for 167 cases of various hepatic nodules in 144 patients. No complications due to dynamic US were observed in any of the 148 patients. All FNH nodules were less than 3 cm in diameter. Consistent specific findings of FNH were not obtained with US, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, radiocolloid scanning, or angiography in the four cases of FNH. In contrast, the characteristic vascular pattern (ie, early central hypervascular supply with centrifugal filling to the periphery at the arterial phase and a uniform or lobulated dense stain at the capillary phase) was observed in all four cases of FNH with dynamic US. This vascular pattern demonstrated in FNH with dynamic US was not seen in any of the 167 hepatic nodules, including 44 small hepatocellular carcinomas less than 3 cm in diameter. Therefore, the newly developed, dynamic contrast-enhanced US technique seems to be extremely sensitive and specific for diagnosing FNH and is useful in the differentiation of FNH from other hepatic tumors, especially hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Immunohistochemical analysis of neural cell adhesion molecules. Differential expression in small round cell tumors of childhood and adolescence. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) was discovered in a search for cell surface antigens of chicken neurons that contribute to cell adhesion and pattern formation during development. Homologous adhesion molecules have been identified in several species, including humans. In this immunohistochemical study, the authors examine the role of human NCAM in tumor diagnosis. The authors used a monoclonal antibody (MAb), 5.1H11, to examine NCAM immunoreactivity in frozen sections of more than 450 tumors, including more than 80 small round cell tumors (SRCT) of childhood and adolescence (neuroblastomas, Ewing's sarcomas [ES], peripheral neuroepitheliomas [PN], primitive neuroectodermal tumors [PNET], esthesioneuroblastomas, malignant ectomesenchymoma, medulloblastomas, small cell osteosarcomas, mesenchymal chondrosarcomas, embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas, and lymphomas). The authors show that 1) neuroblastomas and primary brain tumors are NCAM+; 2) ES, most PN/PNETs, and melanomas are NCAM-; 3) embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas and various other sarcomas are NCAM+; 4) neuroendocrine tumors are NCAM+; 5) subsets of carcinomas of kidney, ovary, lung and other organs are NCAM+; and 6) lymphoid tumors are NCAM-. Tests with normal fetal and adult tissues indicate that these findings reflect only in part the NCAM phenotypes of corresponding normal tissues. Notably the NCAM- phenotype of ES and PN/PNET is not explained by current histogenetic models for these tumors, which suggest a primitive neuroectodermal origin. Finally the authors show that NCAM expression among SRCT has an inverse relationship with the expression of p30/32MIC2, a cell surface antigen of ES and PN/PNET detected with MAb HBA71. These results suggest that immunohistochemical assays for NCAM and p30/32MIC2 expression may aid in the further characterization of SRCT of childhood and adolescence. 
Effects of distention and short-term grafting on vasoreactivity in rabbit external jugular veins. The relative effects of distention, intraluminal pressure, and wall tension on venous smooth muscle and endothelial cell function were examined in 40 external jugular veins from New Zealand white rabbits. Vein grafts (n = 5) were interposed in the common carotid artery and explanted after 10 minutes. Distended veins were inflated in vitro with modified Krebs' solution at 37 degrees C for 10 minutes at pressures of either 20 mm Hg (D-20; n = 5) or 80 mm Hg (D-80; n = 5). Externally supported veins (ES-80; n = 5) were inflated at 80 mm Hg pressure, but distention was prevented by covering with a 3 mm internal diameter polytetrafluoroethylene sleeve. Bradykinin-induced in vitro maximal tension was attenuated significantly in vein grafts (0.13 +/- 0.04 g) and D-80 rings (0.27 +/- 0.07 g) compared with D-20 rings (1.20 +/- 0.14 g), ES-80 rings (0.99 +/- 0.13 g), or nondistended control rings (n = 40; 1.19 +/- 0.10 g; p less than 0.001). The attenuation in contraction in the vein graft and D-80 groups was nonspecific (i.e., similar results were obtained with respect to other smooth muscle agonists). Contractile function was inversely associated with wall tension, the product of pressure and radius (r2 = 0.7438; p = 0.06). In contrast, there were no differences in endothelium-dependent or endothelium-independent relaxation among the five groups. It is concluded that, in this experimental system, (1) venous smooth muscle function is significantly attenuated after short-term in vitro distention or grafting although endothelial function is largely preserved, and (2) the decrement in contraction is due to elevated wall tension. 
Differential effects of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I and IGF-II on the expression of IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) in a rat neuroblastoma cell line: isolation and characterization of two forms of IGFBP-4. The isolation and hormonal regulation of two low molecular weight insulin-like growth factor binding proteins (IGFBPs) present in the conditioned medium (CM) of the rat neuroblastoma cell line B104 cells has been performed. IGFBPs were purified by ZnSO4 precipitation, insulin-like growth factor-I 1IGF-I) affinity chromatography, and reverse phase HPLC. Final isolation and N-terminal analysis was accomplished by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, electroblotting to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes, and sequencing of the bound proteins. Two IGFBPs, with apparent Mr of 28K and 24K were coisolated and sequenced. Both proteins had identical N-terminal sequences and appear to be two forms of IGFBP-4. Treatment of the IGFBPs with endoglycosidase-F caused a shift in the apparent Mr of the 28K IGFBP to 24K. However, there was no change in the apparent Mr of the 24K IGFBP. The data from this study suggest that the IGFBP-4 exists as both a glycosylated and nonglycosylated protein. Treatment of B104 cells with IGF-I increased the expression of both the 24K and 28K IGFBPs and also resulted in the appearance of IGFBP-3 and an unknown IGFBP at 29K. When added to subconfluent cells, IGF-I was also mitogenic in B104 cells. Similar to IGF-I, IGF-II treatment increased cell number and resulted in the appearance of IGFBP-3 and the 29K IGFBP. However, IGF-II treatment resulted in a significant decrease (approximately 50%) in the 24K IGFBP and also decreased the 28K IGFBP. This decrease in the expression of the 24K and 28K IGFBPs was dose-dependent and was blocked by addition of IGF-I to the cells. When an IGF-II receptor antibody was added to the cells it mimicked the effects of IGF-II on B104 cells, suggesting that the inhibitory effects of IGF-II are mediated through the type II IGF receptor. Although both IGF-I and IGF-II affected the amount of the 24K IGFBP in the CM, neither peptide affected the expression of the messenger RNA for the 24K IGFBP. In conclusion, we have isolated two IGFBPs from the CM of B104 cells. Both the 24K and 28K IGFBPs appear to be isoforms of the same protein, and sequence data suggest these proteins are two forms of IGFBP-4. IGF-I increases the expression of both of these IGFBPs, whereas IGF-II decreases their expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Ki-67 immunostaining in node-negative stage I/II breast carcinoma. Significant correlation with prognosis. Prognostic predictors for node-negative breast carcinoma have not been clearly established. Immunostaining with Ki-67 antibody was performed on frozen sections of histologically proved node-negative breast carcinomas from 42 patients to examine its prognostic value and its association with other clinicopathologic and biochemical parameters, i.e., patient age and tumor size, histologic type, nuclear grade, mitotic rate, presence of vascular or lymphatic invasion, DNA ploidy, percentage of cells in S-phase, estrogen content, and c-erbB-2 amplification. Thirty-seven of the 42 tumors showed immunoreactivity with Ki-67 antibody in 1% to 55% of the tumor cells. A strongly significant correlation was observed between Ki-67 staining percentage and, respectively, nuclear grade, age, and mitotic rate. Nuclear grade 1 (the most anaplastic) tumors showed a significantly higher median percentage of cells stained (median, 14; range, 3 to 40) compared with nuclear grade 3 tumors (median, 0.5; range, 0 to 8). Thirteen patients developed recurrence; six of them died of disease. On univariate analysis, both 5-year disease-free and overall survivals were strongly associated with percentage of cells stained with Ki-67 antibody. Our results suggest that Ki-67 immunostaining correlates well with nuclear grade and clinical outcome in node-negative breast carcinoma. Because of small sample size analyzed in this study we were unable to do multivariate analysis. Therefore, further studies with larger number of cases are needed to determine whether tumor proliferative activity determined by Ki-67 immunostaining is an independent prognostic parameter or it merely reflects histopathologic features such as nuclear grade or mitotic activity. 
Radiologic findings of clonorchiasis. Clonorchiasis is a trematodiasis caused by chronic infestation of liver flukes, Clonorchis sinensis. The adult flukes reside in the medium-sized and small intrahepatic bile ducts and, occasionally, in the extrahepatic bile ducts, gallbladder, and pancreatic duct. The result is mechanical obstruction, inflammatory reaction, adenomatous hyperplasia, and periductal fibrosis. Signs and symptoms are usually mild and nonspecific, but heavy infestation results in obstructive jaundice. The disease has a close relationship with recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma. In this article, the radiologic findings, including cholangiography, sonography, and CT of clonorchiasis are reviewed in light of the pathophysiology of the disease. The relationship to recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and to cholangiocarcinoma is discussed. 
Exercise supplementation of dipyridamole for myocardial perfusion imaging [editorial; comment] The substitution of intravenous dipyridamole for symptom-limited treadmill exercise has provided a non-invasive means to diagnose coronary artery disease with 201Tl scintigraphy in patients unable to adequately exercise. Limitations of dipyridamole/thallium imaging are primarily due to suboptimal image quality secondary to hepatic tracer concentration and decreased test sensitivity in patients who are dipyridamole "non-responders." Low-level treadmill exercise supplementation improves image quality, whereas handgrip has little, if any, benefit. The effect of low-level exercise in augmenting coronary blood flow is unknown and reports regarding the effect of handgrip are conflicting. The diagnostic benefit of these maneuvers in improving test sensitivity and decreasing the number of "non-responders" has not been documented. The combination of maximal, symptom-limited treadmill exercise and intravenous dipyridamole is a theoretically attractive option to improve overall test sensitivity, but the physiologic consequences and potential side effects should be more thoroughly investigated. 
Serum bupivacaine concentrations following wound infiltration in children undergoing inguinal herniotomy. Serum bupivacaine concentrations were measured in 12 children who underwent elective herniotomy and who received analgesia in the form of wound infiltration. Mean (SD) peak concentration was 0.36 (0.14) micrograms/ml and time to peak concentration was 14.6 (7.2) minutes after infiltration of 1.25 mg/kg of bupivacaine. These concentrations are lower than those associated with other local anaesthetic blocks and well below potentially toxic levels. Wound infiltration provides a simple, effective and safe method of providing postoperative analgesia for hernia repair in children. 
Effect of very low birth weight and subnormal head size on cognitive abilities at school age BACKGROUND. We tested the hypothesis that very-low-birth-weight (less than 1.5 kg) infants with perinatal growth failure whose head size is not normal by eight months of age (corrected for prematurity) have significantly poorer growth and neurocognitive abilities at school age than very-low-birth-weight children with a normal head size at eight months. We also hypothesized that these differences would persist even after control for major neurologic impairment and perinatal and sociodemographic risk factors. METHODS. We have followed a cohort of very-low-birth-weight children since their birth during the period 1977 to 1979. At eight to nine years of age 249 children were evaluated with a neurologic examination and tests of intelligence; receptive and expressive language skills; speech, reading, mathematics, and spelling aptitude; visual and fine motor abilities; and behavior. Ages were corrected for premature birth. RESULTS. Among these 249 very-low-birth-weight children, head size was subnormal (less than the mean -2 SD for age) at birth in 30 (12 percent), at term in 57 (23 percent), and at eight months in 33 (13 percent). As compared with the 216 children with normal head sizes, the 33 children with subnormal head sizes at the age of eight months had significantly lower mean birth weights (1.1 vs. 1.2 kg) and higher neonatal risk scores (71 vs. 53) and at the age of eight years had a higher incidence of neurologic impairment (21 percent vs. 8 percent) and lower IQ scores (mean verbal, 84 vs. 98). Even among the children without neurologic abnormalities, a subnormal head size at eight months of age was predictive of poorer verbal and performance IQ scores at eight years of age; lower scores for receptive language, speech, reading, mathematics, and spelling; and a higher incidence of hyperactivity. In multiple regression analyses to control for socioeconomic and neonatal risk factors, intrauterine growth failure, birth weight, and neurologic impairment, a subnormal head size at eight months of age had an independently adverse effect on IQ and on scores for receptive language, speech, reading, and spelling. CONCLUSIONS. In very-low-birth-weight infants, perinatal growth failure, as evidenced by a subnormal head circumference at eight months of age, is associated with poor cognitive function, academic achievement, and behavior at eight years of age. 
Central nervous system monitoring. What helps, what does not. The ICU monitoring of CNS function can make a difference in the clinical outcome. No single technique addresses the multiple issues that arise in the ICU setting, especially for the polytrauma patient. Multimodality approaches combining assessment of cerebral blood flow, electrophysiologic parameters, and intracranial pressure, when appropriate, with cardiac and respiratory monitors are being developed at a number of traumatology centers world wide. Experience needs to be gained to establish the best combination of these modalities. Pending this, selected use of intracranial pressure monitoring combined with EEG and transcranial Doppler ultrasound provides reliable immediate assessment and ongoing monitoring of CNS structures. 
Prognostic significance of computed tomography of the brain in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. We studied the prognostic value of computed tomography (CT) of the brain for neurologic morbidity in patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. On review of Mayo Clinic records for 1975 through 1985, we found 32 patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, 20 of whom had undergone CT of the brain during their hospitalization. Despite major neurologic symptoms and signs, normal CT findings were associated with complete neurologic recovery. Seventy percent of patients with normal results of CT of the brain recovered and had no neurologic deficits, whereas 80% of patients with CT abnormalities died or had permanent neurologic sequelae. A review of the literature supports these conclusions. Thus, we suggest that CT of the brain be done in any patient with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and neurologic deficits. Regardless of the severity of neurologic involvement, normal CT findings should encourage continued vigorous treatment of the patient because a normal scan supports the possibility of full clinical recovery. 
Alterations of ATP levels and of energy parameters in the blood of alcoholic and nonalcoholic patients with liver damage. Blood adenine nucleotides were determined in patients with alcoholic and non-alcoholic liver diseases. They included patients with alcoholic hepatitis (AH), alcoholic liver cirrhosis (ALC), non-alcoholic liver cirrhosis (NALC), and amoebic liver abscess (ALA) (28 patients). A decrease of 28% to 39% in blood ATP levels was observed among the patients with AH and the cirrhotic groups, respectively (p less than 0.05), whereas no significant changes in blood ATP levels were detected in the ALA group. Although total blood adenine nucleotides were significantly diminished in AH, ALC, and NALC groups, the AH patients retained their energy relationships within normal range. On the other hand, the cirrhotic groups, independently of their etiology, failed to maintain an adequate ATP/ADP ratio, energy charge, and phosphorylation potential in the blood, suggesting a decreased energy availability in their blood cells. Nevertheless, the mechanism involved in these effects remains to be elucidated, a failure of the damaged liver to supply purines to extra-hepatic tissues might be a major event altering the blood energy parameters. 
Cutaneous herpes simplex virus infections. Affecting millions of Americans each year, herpes simplex virus infections are among the most common human viral infections. Many clinical forms exist, depending on the site of infection and the patient's age and immune status. Clinical evaluation and laboratory studies help establish the diagnosis. Acyclovir is the drug most often used to treat herpes simplex virus infections, although newer agents, such as phosphonoformate trisodium, may be required for acyclovir-resistant infections. 
Facial nerve monitoring in acoustic tumor surgery. Anatomic and functional preservation of the facial nerve during acoustic tumor surgery remains a primary goal. Intraoperative electromyographic facial nerve monitoring with auditory feedback has enabled the surgeon to more readily achieve this goal. We compared a group of monitored translabyrinthine acoustic tumor removals (N = 89) to a similar unmonitored group (N = 155) in regard to facial nerve function. Function was assessed immediately postoperatively, at time of discharge, and at 1 year postoperatively using the House six-point scale. Results were grouped as satisfactory, intermediate, or poor and were analyzed by tumor size. Facial nerve results were better at all time intervals in the monitored groups, although the difference was not statistically significant at the 1-year interval. There was no difference between monitored and unmonitored patients in the subgroups with tumors smaller than 2.5 cm in diameter. This study supports the usefulness of intraoperative facial nerve monitoring in improving facial nerve results, particularly in larger tumors. 
Effects of media conditions, insulin, and dexamethasone on insulin-receptor mRNA and promoter activity in HepG2 cells. Numerous physiological agents and conditions modulate cellular insulin sensitivity by downregulating or upregulating total cellular insulin receptors. In this study, we examined the effects of replacing complete medium in the absence or presence of insulin on the regulation of insulin-receptor gene expression in cultured human hepatoma cells (HepG2). Failure to replace complete medium resulted in growth arrest of HepG2 cells and a six- to sevenfold increase in insulin-receptor mRNA due to the prolongation of insulin-receptor mRNA half-life. Northern analysis revealed multiple insulin-receptor mRNA species; the largest species (11 kilobases) was disproportionately increased in growth-arrested cells. High concentrations of insulin (500 ng/ml) induced a 33.8% decrease in the abundance of insulin-receptor mRNA (n = 14). At lower concentrations, a trend of inhibition was observed but was not statistically significant. Insulin (500 ng/ml) did not affect insulin-receptor mRNA stability. The effect of conditioned media, insulin, and dexamethasone on insulin-receptor promoter activity was also examined. Various constructs of the 5'-flanking region of the insulin-receptor gene were attached immediately upstream to a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter gene and transiently transfected into HepG2 cells via a pBR322-derived plasmid (pCAT). In cells replaced with complete medium, 12 and 118% of the promoter activity was contained within 578 and 877 base pairs, respectively, from the major translational initiation site. Conditioned media from growth-arrested cells in culture for 7 days increased promoter activity approximately twofold in 48 h. However, this increase failed to localize to any specific region on the insulin-receptor promoter. 
A prospective comparison of neuropsychologic performance of children surviving leukemia who received 18-Gy, 24-Gy, or no cranial irradiation. To compare the late neuropsychologic toxicities of CNS prophylaxis for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), longitudinal assessments were performed on three groups of patients: those who received repeated courses of moderate-dose (1 g/m2) intravenous (IV) and intrathecal methotrexate (IT MTX) without cranial irradiation (MTX group, n = 26), those who received IT MTX and 18 Gy cranial irradiation (18-Gy group, n = 23), and those who received IT MTX and 24 Gy cranial irradiation (24-Gy group, n = 28). All patients were free of CNS leukemia at diagnosis and had remained in continuous, complete remission 5 to 11 years (median, 7.4 years) following CNS prophylaxis. An analysis of serial intelligence quotient (IQ), achievement, and neuropsychologic studies revealed no significant influence of either age at CNS prophylaxis or CNS prophylaxis group on any neuropsychologic outcome measure. After adjusting for changes in IQ test versions that were necessitated by advancing patient age, no statistically significant declines in Verbal, Performance, or Full Scale IQs were noted for the three CNS treatment groups. However, comparisons of group means masked declines in individual children; 22% to 30% of children exhibited a clinically significant deterioration (greater than or equal to 15 points) in uncorrected IQ values over the study period. Female sex was associated with an increased risk of deterioration in Verbal IQ, but we were unable to identify risk factors associated with other declines in intellect and achievement. The inability to reliably predict individual patients at risk for clinically significant neuropsychologic toxicities on the basis of age at diagnosis or specific method of CNS prophylaxis suggests that other etiologic factors must be explored as the basis for these changes, such as ecologic factors and chemotherapy during the continuation phase of treatment. 
Resection of malignant bone tumors about the shoulder. A preliminary report of reconstruction with a new modular spacer. Reconstruction after resection of malignant bone tumors about the shoulder is difficult. Twelve patients had reconstruction using a new titanium modular spacer. This modular system allows the surgeon to reconstruct variable lengths of the proximal humerus. Although the patient has no active shoulder motion, excellent hand and elbow function is preserved. The spacer serves as a temporary device in the young active patient. A more definitive reconstructive procedure can be performed after the completion of chemotherapy and a sufficient disease-free interval. 
Clinical application of a patient-controlled apparatus for ventricular administration of morphine in intractable pain: report of 28 cases. The authors developed a patient-controlled apparatus (L-224) for ventricular administration of pain-relieving medication and utilized it in the treatment of 28 patients with intractable pain. The initial dose of morphine hydrochloride was 1 mg, which afforded pain relief for an average of 170 hours. At an average dose of 1.8 mg, the average time of pain relief obtained was 137 hours. Therefore, they conclude that L-224 is a satisfactory apparatus for the ventricular administration of pain medication; it is patient controlled, safe, and reliable in clinical application. 
Malignant transformation of an osteoblastoma of the skull: an exceptional occurrence. Case report. What is apparently the first reported case of spontaneous malignant transformation of a benign osteoblastoma of the skull is described. The initial lesion was completely removed surgically and showed the histological features typical of a benign osteoblastoma. No radiotherapy was performed. Eleven years later the patient developed an osteosarcoma of the skull. Review of the literature showed that malignant transformation of benign osteoblastomas is extremely rare and could take place spontaneously. However, the risk of this occurring seems higher after inadequate initial treatment (curettage or partial excision). Follow-up monitoring of patients with osteoblastoma of the cranial vault is suggested. 
Pulmonary function of preeclamptic women receiving intravenous magnesium sulfate seizure prophylaxis. Pulmonary function was studied in ten preeclamptic women in labor (mean gestational age 38.1 +/- 0.9 weeks measured from the last menstrual period) receiving continuous intravenous (IV) infusions of magnesium sulfate. Baseline maximal inspiratory pressure, maximal expiratory pressure, functional vital capacity, and forced expiratory volume at 1 second were measured immediately before a 6-g IV loading dose of magnesium sulfate and 2 hours after the initiation of a continuous 2-g/hour infusion of magnesium sulfate. Serum magnesium levels were measured at the same time pulmonary function tests were performed. All values are reported as the mean +/- standard deviation. The maximal inspiratory pressure, an indicator of generalized respiratory muscle weakness, decreased from a baseline value of 26.2 +/- 7.7 to 19.4 +/- 6.3 cm H2O (P less than .05). The maximal expiratory pressure, an indicator of expiratory muscle strength, decreased from a baseline value of 30.6 +/- 9.2 to 25.2 +/- 7.1 cm H2O (P less than .005). The functional vital capacity decreased from a baseline value of 3.37 +/- 0.49 to 3.19 +/- 0.73 L, and the forced expiratory volume at 1 second decreased from a baseline value of 2.61 +/- 0.58 to 2.36 +/- 0.68 L at 2 hours (P less than .05). The mean serum magnesium level was 1.7 +/- 0.2 mg/dL before the administration of the IV loading dose and 4.51 +/- 0.67 mg/dL 2 hours after initiation of the continuous infusion. Our results demonstrate a significant decrease in pulmonary function tests in term preeclamptic patients receiving magnesium sulfate for seizure prophylaxis. 
Androgens and oligomenorrhea in hirsute women. A recent study demonstrated that hirsute women with irregular menses had higher levels of serum androgens that hirsute women with regular menses. To investigate this finding, we measured total testosterone, biologically active testosterone, free testosterone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate in 51 hirsute women with regular menses and compared the levels found to those found in 28 hirsute women with oligomenorrhea. There was no significant difference in the degree of facial hirsutism between the two groups. Oligomenorrheic women had significantly higher levels of free testosterone (p less than 0.02) and biologically active testosterone (p less than 0.05). The other androgens did not differ significantly between the two groups. The free fractions of testosterone are the metabolically active forms of the hormone and their levels are a function of the rates of production and clearance of testosterone that are elevated in states of hyperandrogenism. This study confirms that hirsute women with oligomenorrhea have higher levels of free and biologically active testosterone than those with regular menses. 
Concomitant medical disease and headache. The treatment of headache disorders in patients with concomitant medical illness constitutes one of the more challenging areas of headache therapy. As new agents are added to our pharmacologic armamentarium, it will become easier to tailor therapy to our patients. The physician who treats the headache patient with concomitant medical illness must be particularly aware of drug side effects and pharmacology in order to prevent a worsening of underlying medical conditions or an exacerbation of headaches. 
How prevalent is cancer family syndrome? Based on an established but pragmatic definition of cancer family syndrome as the presence of three or more relatives affected by colorectal cancer in a first degree kinship, the contribution of this syndrome to the total cancer burden in Northern Ireland has been studied by investigating all non-polyposis probands under 55 years old at histological diagnosis between 1976 and 1978. Family interviews were possible for 95% (n = 205) of all non-polyposis probands and verification of vital status or medical history was obtained for 98% of 1811 first degree relatives. The prevalence of cancer family syndrome was between 1 and 2%, a figure some fivefold less than that estimated elsewhere. A proximal tumour excess was not characteristic of the ascertained families. These results may have implications for the identification of susceptible people if screening for high risk groups is considered a worthwhile option for reducing colorectal cancer mortality in the United Kingdom. 
Small bowel obstruction after colon resection for benign and malignant diseases. To determine the etiology and outcome of patients with small bowel obstruction after a colon resection for benign and malignant diseases, the medical records of 118 patients who underwent 120 laparotomies for small bowel obstruction were reviewed. Contrary to previous reports, benign adhesions were responsible for the obstruction in all patients with a history of benign colon disease, 82.6 percent of patients with a history of adenocarcinoma of the colon without known recurrence, and 30.1 percent of patients with known recurrent malignancy. The morbidity and mortality was more related to the etiology of the obstruction rather than the preoperative delay or operative procedure performed. Considering the high likelihood of adhesive obstruction in patients with a history of, or known, metastatic colorectal carcinoma, it is suggested that these not deter surgeons from aggressive early surgical intervention in these patients who develop small bowel obstruction. 
Clinical experience with oral sumatriptan: a placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study. Oral Sumatriptan Dose-defining Study Group. A double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre study was carried out to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of 100, 200 and 300 mg sumatriptan, a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1-like receptor agonist, given in an oral dispersible form in the acute treatment of migraine attacks. A total of 1130 patients were recruited from 51 centres in eight countries and the efficacy results are presented from an interim analysis of 538 cases. Tolerability was evaluated in 227 patients. At 2 h, an improvement in headache severity from moderate or severe to mild or none was reported by 67% of patients who received 100 mg sumatriptan, 75% receiving 200 mg and 69% of patients receiving 300 mg sumatriptan, compared with 22% of patients who received placebo (P less than 0.001 all doses sumatriptan vs placebo). Adverse events were generally mild and transient, and appeared to be dose-related; the adverse event profile of 100 mg sumatriptan was similar to that of placebo. Overall, nausea/vomiting and "bitter taste" were the most common complaints. The proportion of patients withdrawn due to adverse events was similar in the placebo and 100 mg sumatriptan treatment groups (2% and 3%, respectively). It is concluded that 100 mg sumatriptan given orally is well tolerated with an anti-migraine efficacy comparable to that provided by the two higher doses. 
Effect of sequential early burn wound excision and closure on postburn oxygen consumption. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of early excision and closure of burns on postburn hypermetabolism, measured as oxygen consumption (VO2). METHODS: Twelve patients with deep burns of 30% to 50% of total body surface underwent sequential excisions and wound coverage, beginning 1 to 3 days after burn. The majority of the deep burn was removed by day 7, but with the addition of a donor site area of 20% to 25% of total body surface. RESULTS: No decrease in VO2 was noted in relation to the percent removal of burn tissue. In addition, a transient further increase in VO2 was noted early after excision, especially with surgical procedures performed after 5 days. This response could not be attributed to wound manipulation-induced bacteremias. CONCLUSION: We conclude that early surgical excision and closure of burns in excess of 30% to 50% of total body surface do not decrease postburn hypermetabolism in proportion to the area closed. It is possible that remaining open wounds in the form of donor sites and nonexcised burn are sufficient to perpetuate the hypermetabolic process, once established. 
Transanal electrostimulation for fecal incontinence: clinical, psychologic, and manometric prospective study. A prospective study was carried out to analyze the clinical, psychologic, and manometric short-term results of transanal electrostimulation (TES) in the treatment of fecal incontinence. Fifteen patients underwent TES. An initial clinical and manometric assessment was carried out before and 1 month after the procedure. A psychologic evaluation was also performed by means of interviews and appropriate tests. Early improvement of symptoms was noted in 10 patients. The nonresponders were women with gross daily incontinence to solid stool. At anal manometry, resting tone and rectal sensation remained unchanged, whereas a significant increase of voluntary contraction was observed following TES (from 48 +/- 26 to 59 +/- 39 mm Hg, P = 0.03). Psychologically, TES led to a significant decrease of both latent and paranoid anxiety related to symptoms (P = 0.02). At a clinical reassessment 6 months later, one of the nonresponders became continent after a further course of TES. In conclusion, TES is well accepted by the patients, is followed by positive emotional response, and, by improving striated sphincter function, seems to be effective in the treatment of partial fecal incontinence. 
Combination thrombolytic therapy: a comparison of simultaneous and sequential regimens of tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase. Coronary angioplasty following unsuccessful tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) therapy for acute myocardial infarction has been associated with a high incidence of subsequent reocclusion of the infarct-related artery, and a relatively high in-hospital mortality. In contrast, the combination of t-PA and urokinase, when given intravenously prior to coronary angiography, appears to be associated with a low incidence of post-rescue angioplasty reocclusion. In order to determine whether intraprocedural urokinase, given at the time of rescue coronary angioplasty for failed t-PA therapy, improves long-term patency of the infarct vessel to the same extent as preangiographic, combination t-PA/urokinase therapy, three thrombolytic treatment strategies were retrospectively compared. The first group included 86 patients undergoing rescue angioplasty after t-PA monotherapy (t-PA alone). The clinical and angiographic outcomes of these patients were compared with those of 24 patients who received intravenous or intracoronary urokinase during rescue angioplasty following unsuccessful t-PA therapy (sequential t-PA/urokinase therapy), and with those of 34 patients undergoing rescue coronary angioplasty following unsuccessful therapy with the combination of intravenous t-PA and urokinase (simultaneous therapy). There was no difference in postangioplasty patency rate of the infarct-related artery between the three groups. However, the sequential t-PA/urokinase regimen was associated with a subsequent reocclusion rate that was lower than the rate that occurred in the t-PA monotherapy group but higher than the rate in the simultaneous t-PA/urokinase group (13 versus 29 versus 2%, respectively; p = 0.003). 
Intracerebral hemorrhage, cerebral infarction, and subdural hematoma after acute myocardial infarction and thrombolytic therapy in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction Study. Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II, pilot and clinical trial. In the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, Phase II pilot and clinical trial, 908 patients [326 (35.9%) in the pilot study and 582 (64.0%) in the randomized study] were treated with 150 mg recombinant tissue-type plasminogen (rt-PA) activator in combination with heparin and aspirin, and 3,016 patients [64 (2.1%) in the pilot study and 2,952 (97.9%) in the randomized study] were treated with 100 mg rt-PA in combination with heparin and aspirin. Adverse neurological events occurred in 23 patients treated with 150 mg rt-PA (2.5%) [nine cerebral infarctions (1.0%), 12 intracerebral hemorrhages (1.3%), and two subdural hematomas (0.2%)] and in 33 patients treated with 100 mg rt-PA (1.1%) [20 cerebral infarctions (0.7%), 11 intracerebral hemorrhages (0.4%), and two subdural hematomas (0.1%)]. The difference in adverse neurological events observed comparing the two rt-PA regimens was primarily due to a higher frequency of intracerebral bleeding among patients treated with 150 mg rt-PA (1.3% versus 0.4%, p less than 0.01). Patients with recent (within 6 months) histories of stroke were not eligible for the study, and patients with any history of cerebrovascular disease were declared ineligible early in the study. The small number of patients (89, or 2.3%) with any history of neurological disease, intermittent cerebral ischemic attacks, or stroke who were enrolled before the stricter eligibility criteria were imposed or on the basis of incomplete baseline information experienced an increased frequency of intracerebral hemorrhage compared with patients without such histories (3.4% versus 0.5%). Mortality at 6 weeks after presentation among 23 patients who had intracerebral hemorrhage was 47.8%. Intracerebral hemorrhage is a severe but infrequent complication of rt-PA therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The combined frequency of intracerebral hemorrhage, subdural hematoma, and cerebral infarction after treatment with 100 mg rt-PA is comparable to that observed in other trials with thrombolytic agents in acute myocardial infarction. 
9p monosomy in a patient with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (GTS) is a genetic disorder characterized by multiple motor and vocal tics, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and attention-deficit disorder. Family studies support the presence of an autosomal dominant gene; however, to date, an assignment for the GTS locus has not been made. We present the case of a boy with GTS and a deletion of the terminal portion of the short arm of chromosome 9, del(9)(qter----p2304:). 
A femoral vein-femoral artery loop technique for aortic dilatation in children. Balloon aortic dilatation is now a recognized therapy for aortic stenosis in children. Using retrograde approaches with either single or double balloons, successful dilatation can be readily achieved, but with little control of balloon position across the valve. We describe a femoral vein-femoral artery loop technique via a transseptal approach which facilitates antegrade crossing of the stenotic aortic valve and allows optimal balloon control and simultaneous pressure gradient recording during the procedure. 
Acceleration of chronic myeloid leukemia correlates with calcitonin gene hypermethylation. Calcitonin gene methylation at CCGG sites were determined in 39 chronic myeloid leukemia patients by isoschizomeric restriction endonuclease analysis. A total of 27 patients were analyzed while still in the chronic phase: 20 patients had a normal gene, and seven had a hypermethylated gene. There were 12 patients initially studied in accelerated or blastic phases. All but one patient showed gene hypermethylation, suggesting a good correlation between gene methylation and disease stage. All five patients who, while still in the chronic phase, had a major 3.1-kb hypermethylated calcitonin gene fragment, accelerated within 2 to 27 months. In consecutively analyzed patients, the initially normal calcitonin gene changed to a hypermethylated state as the disease escalated. The hypermethylation predicted disease acceleration with a median lead time of 6 months before any morphologic or clinical signs of disease progression were seen. The disease progressed in 8 of 27 patients initially studied in the chronic phase: in only two patients this occurred without predictive methylation changes. The results suggest that the assessment of calcitonin gene methylation status may be a promising tool for monitoring chronic myeloid leukemia disease escalation. 
Fibrinolysis in cerebrospinal fluid after intraventricular haemorrhage. Concentrations of cross linked fibrin degradation products were measured in the cerebrospinal fluid from five 'normal' preterm infants (median 102 ng/ml), four preterm infants with intraventricular haemorrhage (median 315 ng/ml), and five infants with progressive post-haemorrhagic ventricular dilatation (median 1000 ng/ml). Serial samples of cerebrospinal fluid from one infant showed a peak concentration two weeks after the haemorrhage. 
Hydatidiform mole and fetus with normal karyotype: support of a separate entity. Repetitive hydatidiform mole was observed in four pregnancies. The pregnancies presented with heavy bleeding and vomiting, but the post-evacuation courses were uncomplicated, with rapid regression of serum hCG levels. Cytogenetic investigations, analyses of restriction fragment length polymorphisms, and flow cytometry in three pregnancies were consistent with diploid, biparental conception as the origin of fetal tissue and molar and nonmolar villi. In one pregnancy, the analyses of cytogenetic markers suggested the coexistence of two different cell lines of dizygotic, biparental origin, whereas DNA analysis was consistent with a single conception. With incomplete genetic information, a hydatidiform mole with coexistent normal fetus is generally considered to result from dizygous twinning comprising an androgenetic complete mole and a normal conception. In the present gestations, the results based on several techniques applied on numerous samples from different tissues render this possibility unlikely. Some of the contradictions between histologic and cytogenetic classifications of hydatidiform mole may be explained by diploid, biparental partial mole, which seems to constitute a separate subgroup within hydatidiform mole. Following chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis, continued pregnancy may be considered, depending on prenatal diagnosis including genetic marker analysis. 
A prospective study of outcome from protein-energy malnutrition in nursing home residents. To study recovery from protein-energy malnutrition in patients newly admitted to a chronic care facility, biochemical and anthropomorphic malnutrition indicators were measured prospectively over a 2-month period. Subjects were observed for a mean of 76 +/- 18 days after admission. Factors which might affect nutritional status including method of feeding, energy prescribed, use of supplemental feedings, assistance in eating, and amount of diet consumed were recorded. Confounding variables including illness, mental status, functional status, or prescription drugs were evaluated for their impact. On the basis of an empiric nutrition score, 54% of newly admitted residents were malnourished. Improvement in nutritional score occurred in 63% of malnourished patients remaining in the facility whereas 37% remained malnourished. Two related factors, percentage of diet consumed and degree of assistance required in eating, were important differences in the outcome of patients remaining malnourished. Interventional studies to determine whether outcome can be improved by more aggressive feeding methods or by feeding teams need to be undertaken. 
Human beta-galactosidase gene mutations in GM1-gangliosidosis: a common mutation among Japanese adult/chronic cases. Molecular analysis of the human beta-galactosidase gene revealed six different mutations in 10 of 11 Japanese GM1-gangliosidosis patients. They were the only abnormalities in each allele examined in this study. A 165-nucleotide duplication (positions 1103-1267) was found in two infantile patients, producing an abnormally large mRNA; one patient was probably a homozygote, and the other was a heterozygote of this mutation. The other two infantile patients had different mutations; a 123 Gly(GGG)----Arg(AGG) mutation in one patient and a 316 Tyr(TAT)----Cys(TGT) mutation in the other. A 201 Arg(CGC)----Cys(TGC) mutation, eliminating a BspMI site, was detected in a late-infantile/juvenile patient; the restriction-site analysis of amplified genomic DNA confirmed his heterozygosity for this mutation. A 51 Ile(ATC)----Thr(ACC) mutation was found in all five adult/chronic patients examined in this study. It created a SauI site, and restriction-site analysis confirmed that four patients were homozygous mutants. The other was a compound heterozygote for this mutation and another 457 Arg(CGA)----Gln(CAA) mutation. These mutant genes expressed markedly decreased or completely deficient enzyme activities in beta-galactosidase-deficient human fibroblasts transformed by adenovirus-SV40 recombinants. We conclude that gene mutations are heterogeneous in GM1-gangliosidosis but that the 51 Ile(ATC)----Thr(ACC) mutation is common among the Japanese adult/chronic cases. Genotype-phenotype correlations in GM1-gangliosidosis are briefly discussed. 
Lack of evidence for small vessel disease in a patient with "slow dye progression" in the coronary arteries. A patient with chest pain of recent onset, suggestive for angina pectoris, was referred for diagnostic coronary angiography, which showed the typical phenomenon of "slow dye progression" in the absence of any significant coronary artery stenosis. While intracoronary Doppler measurements confirmed the extremely slow blood flow velocity, the coronary flow reserve and the calculated coronary blood flow proved to be within normal range. The present findings suggest that, in contrast with a previous hypothesis, the phenomenon of slow dye progression may not always be due to a microvascular cause. Epicardial artery disease, as suggested by the marked coronary artery ectasia, may be linked to the slow dye progression and predispose to coronary artery thrombosis. 
Rotationplasty as a reconstructive operation after tumor resection. Reconstruction in the skeletally immature patient following resection of osteosarcoma about the knee is a challenging problem. Salvaging of the limb with allogeneic or prosthetic replacement results in a shortened limb with functional limitations. Arthrodesis yields a stiff and shortened limb. The so-called growing prosthesis has a high complication rate and is still unproven. However, rotationplasty has been successfully used as a reconstructive technique following resection of these types of tumors in the skeletally immature patient. A limb with normal sensation and proprioceptions, adequate range of motion, and without leg-length discrepancies, functional limitations, or painful neuroma is to be expected. Although a prosthesis must be worn, these patients are active and participate in unrestricted physical activity. Cosmetic acceptance has not been a problem and complications are minimal. Thus, rotationplasty requires only a single operation and results in a highly functional limb. 
Factors affecting the patency of stents in malignant biliary obstructive disease: univariate and multivariate analysis. To investigate the factors affecting the patency of biliary stents, we performed univariate and multivariate analyses in 370 straight stents with diameters of 10- to 12-French gauge which had been inserted singly as palliative treatment in 228 patients with malignant biliary obstructive disease. In the analysis of 226 first stents, advanced age of patients and higher serum bilirubin levels before insertion were found to be significant unfavorable factors limiting the duration of stent function. Overall, older age, male sex, no stent cleaning, and insertion on three or more occasions were significant unfavorable prognostic factors for patency. The risk of occlusion for stents inserted on three or more occasions was 2.32 times that of the first stent insertion. The median duration of patency of first, second, and subsequent stents was 177, 98, and 97 days, respectively. Diagnosis and the area of stenosis were unrelated to patency. No predictive significance of length or size of stent between 10- and 12-French gauge was found in our study. 
Unusual clinical presentation of malignant histiocytosis in a 70-year-old woman. A 70-year-old woman was admitted for evaluation of hepatosplenomegaly, fever and elevated serum LDH levels. A biopsy specimen of the liver revealed histiocytic proliferation at the portal triad, and a mild degree of hepatitis. A bone marrow biopsy specimen showed proliferation of histiocytes with minimal immaturity and atypism, and haemophagocytosis by the proliferated histiocytes. Fever, hepatosplenomegaly and elevation of LDH levels all disappeared spontaneously, and presumptive diagnosis of benign reticulosis with haemophagocytosis was made. One year later, fever, hepatosplenomegaly and elevation of LDH levels redeveloped, and the liver and bone marrow biopsy specimen showed proliferation of unequivocally malignant histiocytes. The patient died as a result of disseminated intravascular coagulation with shock 20 d later. We concluded that, in this case, malignant histiocytosis first presented as benign haemophagocytic reticulosis and, 1 year later, there was a typical malignant presentation. 
Management of bleeding liver tumours in Hong Kong. A retrospective study was undertaken of 41 patients diagnosed as having suffered spontaneous liver rupture over a 4-year period to identify the clinical features, treatment and outcome of this complication in an area in which hepatocellular carcinoma is endemic. Two patients were excluded with a revised diagnosis of haemorrhagic malignant ascites. Of the remaining 39 patients, 37 bled from ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma, one from peliosis hepatis and multiple liver cell adenomas, and one from a malignant hepatic epithelioid haemangioendothelioma. Analysis showed that 59 per cent of patients were in shock on admission and that all but two of the 37 patients with ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma were men with cirrhosis. The association with cirrhosis was significantly higher than in a series of 45 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing elective resection during the same period (P less than 0.05). Treatment consisted of supportive care only in two patients, angiographic embolization in four, emergency liver resection in 11 of whom six died, hepatic artery ligation in 12 of whom eight died, and suture and/or packing in eight of whom six died. One patient died at laparotomy and in another patient bleeding was successfully arrested by intratumoural injection of absolute alcohol. Because of the high operative mortality of emergency surgery in these poor risk patients, prospective evaluation of emergency angiographic embolization is required. 
Impaired efficacy of selective LDL-apheresis in primary biliary cirrhosis. Low-density lipoprotein apheresis (LDL-apheresis) was done with either cascade filtration (DF) or dextran sulfate cellulose adsorption (DSC) in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis who developed severe dyslipidemia associated with cholestasis and accumulation of lipoprotein-X (LP-X). The extracorporeal treatment was initially performed weekly, and resulted in a sharp drop in total cholesterol from 1038 to 430 mg/dl. During the next four months the patient was treated every 10-15 days, and pre-apheresis cholesterol levels were maintained between 438 and 505 mg/dl, until an orthotopic liver transplantation was successfully performed. With semi-selective DF a mean 47.1% of total cholesterol was removed per procedure compared to 30.0% with DSC, although the volume of treated plasma was 38.0 vs 49.9 ml/kg body weight. The changes in plasma cholesterol levels during DSC and DF showed that the kinetics of cholesterol removal were similar with both techniques, but the efficacy differed; DF removed both LDL and LP-X from plasma, whereas DSC selectively lowered the LDL content. Cascade filtration may therefore be considered as a first-choice treatment for patients with LP-X accumulation due to cholestasis. 
Chronic hematocele complicating renal failure and hemodialysis. A patient with a recent history of genitourinary tuberculosis, chronic renal failure and hemodialysis presented with a slow growing scrotal swelling that had enlarged during the last 3 years. Physical examination and sonography were suspicious for testicular tumor, and surgical exploration and inguinal orchiectomy were performed. Ultimately the mass proved to be a chronic hematocele, a rare complication of uremic coagulopathy and hemodialysis. Because hematocele may clinically and sonographically resemble a testicular tumor, the proper management of a complex multiseptated scrotal mass without obvious history suggestive of hematocele is surgical exploration and orchiectomy. Awareness of this common presentation may obviate orchiectomy. 
Pulmonary intravascular lipid in neonatal necropsy specimens. The lungs of 482 liveborn infants were examined at necropsy for the presence of intravascular lipid. Forty one patients had received parenteral feeding (including lipid emulsion in 30), and 441 had died before starting feeds or had received enteral feeds alone. Tissue was processed into wax and then stained with Sudan black; intravascular lipid was found in 15 of 30 infants who had received intravenous fat (Intralipid), but in no others. Those patients with positive lipid staining had received significantly more fat during parenteral nutrition than those in whom intravascular lipid was not found but the two groups were otherwise clinically indistinguishable. Using this staining technique intravascular lipid can be shown relatively often, although only in patients who have received intravenous lipid emulsion. The location of fat, predominantly in small pulmonary capillaries, and the absence of lipid emboli in other organs, suggests that lipid coalescence takes place before death and is not a postmortem artefact. The clinical relevance remains uncertain. 
Current surgical technique to repair Fallot's tetralogy with absent pulmonary valve syndrome. The experience with surgical repair of Fallot's tetralogy and absent pulmonary valve syndrome is reviewed. Twenty-two patients aged 1 day to 8 years were treated between 1982 and 1989 using one surgical technique. This consisted of resection of the main pulmonary artery and large parts of the anterior wall of the right and left pulmonary artery. The ventricular septal defect was closed with a patch, and an aortic or pulmonary homograft (size, 8 to 24 mm) was interposed between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. Two of the 8 infants operated on died; there was one late death. All 14 older children survived the operation. All survivors are well up to 7 years follow-up (mean follow-up, 3.6 years). We recommend early treatment of infants; older children can be treated electively. The technique used in our series gives excellent results. 
Pheochromocytoma in a long-term hemodialysis patient. A right adrenal tumor was found incidentally by renal echography in a 25-year-old man, who had been on hemodialysis for 4 years. Inquiry and clinical examination suggested pheochromocytoma, which was confirmed by plasma catecholamine measurements. Subsequent adrenalectomy was uneventful. Although hypertension, headache, and diaphoresis are common symptoms in a dialyzed patient, pheochromocytoma has to be eliminated in the presence of this clinical triad. 
Results of total cavopulmonary connection in the treatment of patients with a functional single ventricle. Total cavopulmonary connection was proposed as a modification of the Fontan procedure that might have greater benefits than previous methods. To assess this procedure we reviewed case histories of 38 patients (aged 17 months to 30 years) who underwent Fontan procedures with cavopulmonary anastomoses between January 1987 and December 1989. The group included 32 patients with univentricular heart, 2 with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum, 3 with tricuspid atresia, and 1 with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. One or more previous palliative procedures were performed in 34 patients, including 19 systemic-pulmonary shunts, 16 pulmonary artery bandings, 7 atrial septectomies/septostomies, 7 Glenn shunts, and 1 patent ductus arteriosus ligation. Preoperative hemodynamics showed a pulmonary artery pressure of 12 mm Hg (range 6 to 22 mm Hg), pulmonary-systemic flow ratio of 1.6 (range 0.37 to 3.0), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 9 mm Hg (range 3 to 15 mm Hg), and systemic arterial oxygen saturation of 82% (range 67% to 94%). Concomitant with cavopulmonary connection, 13 patients underwent additional procedures, including 9 atrioventricular valve annuloplasties, 4 Damus-Stansel-Kaye procedures, and 2 resections of subaortic membranes. Modifying the Fontan procedure in this fashion was particularly useful in the management of 2 patients with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum who had right ventricular-dependent coronary blood flow. Cavopulmonary anastomosis and atrial septectomy were performed in both patients, with resultant inflow of oxygenated blood to the right ventricle and coronary arteries. Excellent postoperative results were noted in each. Postextubation hemodynamics for the entire group included a mean right atrial pressure of 13 mm Hg (range 11 to 17 mm Hg), a mean left atrial pressure of 6 mm Hg (range 3 to 12 mm Hg), and a room air oxygen saturation of 96% (range 92% to 98%). Seven patients had pleural effusions, 3 required postoperative pacemaker placement, and 2 required reoperation for tamponade. A venous assist device was required in one patient on the second postoperative day, but the patient was weaned successfully within 24 hours. One early death (2.6%) occurred in a patient who had intractable ventricular fibrillation 2 days after operation. There was one late cardiac death (2.7%) caused by ventricular failure and one late noncardiac death. These results demonstrate that total cavopulmonary connection provides excellent early definitive treatment, with low morbidity and mortality, for a variety of complex congenital heart lesions. 
Evaluating South Carolina's community cardiovascular disease prevention project. A community cardiovascular disease prevention program was undertaken as a cooperative effort of the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control and the Centers for Disease Control of the Public Health Service. As part of the evaluation of the project, a large scale community health survey was conducted by the State and Federal agencies. The successful design and implementation of the survey, which included telephone and in-home interviews as well as clinical assessments of participants, is described. Interview response rates were adequate, although physical assessments were completed on only 61 percent of those interviewed. Households without telephones were difficult and costly to identify, and young adults were difficult to locate for survey participation. The survey produced baseline data for program planning and for measuring the success of ongoing intervention efforts. Survey data also have been used to estimate the prevalence of selected cardiovascular disease risk factors. 
Six-year experience with a comprehensive approach to the treatment of recurrent childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL-REZ BFM 85). A relapse study of the BFM group. Between April 1985 and March 1987 130 children and adolescents up to 18 years of age with first relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were registered on the stratified and randomized multicentric trial ALL-REZ BFM 85 designed for patients pretreated with intensive front-line therapies. Stratification criteria were time and site of relapse: bone marrow (BM) relapse on or up to 6 months after stopping front-line therapy (group A), BM relapse beyond 6 months after therapy (group B), and isolated extramedullary relapse at any time (group C). Treatment consisted of alternating courses of polychemotherapy including randomly administered high- or intermediate-dose methotrexate (HDMTX:12 g/m2 as 4-hour infusion; IDMTX: 1 g/m2 as 36-hour infusion). During maintenance therapy the patients received daily oral thioguanine and biweekly intravenous (IV) MTX. The overall second complete remission (CR) rate was 92% (groups A, B, and C: 88%, 92%, and 100%), and the probability of event-free survival (EFS) at 6 years is 0.31 +/- 0.04 (groups A, B, and C: 0.18 +/- 0.05, 0.30 +/- 0.07, and 0.72 +/- 0.11). HDMTX did not prove to be superior to IDMTX, which led to premature stopping of randomization. Risk factor analyses showed early relapse, particularly BM relapse within 18 months, and T-cell phenotype to be independent predictors of poor outcome. The incidence of central nervous system (CNS) relapses following BM relapse was 19%, indicating that reprophylaxis to the CNS with IV/intrathecal (IT) MTX was insufficient. For 17 children who received bone marrow transplantation in second CR from HLA-compatible siblings the EFS was 0.53 +/- 0.12 at 5 years. Their outcome was not influenced by the above-mentioned risk factors. With the proposed treatment regimen long-lasting second remissions can be achieved in about one third of patients even after intensive front-line treatment. 
Expiratory muscle fatigue in normal subjects. We examined expiratory muscle fatigue during expiratory resistive loading in 11 normal subjects. Subjects breathed against expiratory resistances at their own breathing frequency and tidal volume until exhaustion or for 60 min. Respiratory muscle strength was assessed from both the maximum static expiratory and inspiratory mouth pressures (PEmax and PImax). At the lowest resistance, PEmax and PImax measured after completion of the expiratory loaded breathing were not different from control values. With higher resistance, both PEmax and PImax were decreased (P less than 0.05), and the decrease lasted for greater than or equal to 60 min. The electromyogram high-to-low frequency power ratio for the rectus abdominis muscle decreased progressively during loading (P less than 0.01), but the integrated EMG activity did not change during recovery. Transdiaphragmatic pressure during loading was increased 3.6-fold compared with control (P less than 0.05). These findings suggest that expiratory resistive loaded breathing induces muscle fatigue in both expiratory and inspiratory muscles. Fatigue of the expiratory muscles can be attributed directly to the high work load and that of the inspiratory muscles may be related to increased work due to shortened inspiratory time. 
Gliomatosis peritonei with malignant transformation: a case report and review of the literature. Gliomatosis peritonei is the implantation of glial tissue within the peritoneal cavity associated with ovarian teratomas. Previous reports have emphasized improved outcomes when these implants are found to be mature, even if the ovarian component is immature. A 16-year-old female with grade 3 immature teratoma was found on two subsequent laparotomies to have extensive peritoneal implantation of mature glial tissue. More than 5 years after the original surgery she was found to have a malignant abdominal glial neoplasm. This case illustrates a rare finding of malignant transformation of previously mature gliomatosis peritonei. 
Interferon-alpha overrides the deficient adhesion of chronic myeloid leukemia primitive progenitor cells to bone marrow stromal cells. Primitive blast colony-forming cells (BI-CFC) from chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients are defective in their attachment to bone marrow-derived stromal cells compared with normal BI-CFC. We investigated the effect of recombinant interferon-alpha 2a (IFN-alpha) on this interaction between hematopoietic progenitor cells and bone marrow-derived stromal cells by culturing normal stromal cells with IFN-alpha (50 to 5,000 U/mL). At 50 U/mL we found that: (1) the capacity of stromal cells to bind two types of CML primitive progenitor cells (BI-CFC and long-term culture-initiating cells) was increased; and (2) the amount of sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in the stromal layer was increased. However, sulfated GAGs were not directly involved in binding CML BI-CFC, unlike binding by normal BI-CFC, which is sulfated GAG-dependent. Neuraminidase-treated control stromal cells bound an increased number of CML BI-CFC, reproducing the effect of IFN-alpha, whereas the binding to IFN-alpha-treated stromal cells was unaffected by neuraminidase treatment. Thus, the enhanced attachment by primitive CML progenitor cells to INF-alpha-treated stromal cells might be due to changes in the neuraminic acid composition in the stromal cell layer. Our in vitro evidence may provide insights into the mechanism of action of IFN-alpha in vivo. Prolonged administration may alter the marrow microenvironment in some patients such that it can restrain the aberrant proliferation of Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive stem cells while permitting Ph-negative stem cells to function normally. 
Plasma renin activity in renal transplant patients with hypertension. Chronic renal allograft rejection (CR) is the major cause of graft loss after 1 year following transplantation. Hypertension (HTN) and proteinuria (Up) are the hallmarks of this immunologic allograft response. Over 1 year, 23 patients posttransplantation and with HTN (diastolic greater than 95 mm Hg) were examined. Serial serum creatinine (Scr), Up, urine creatinine (Ucr), and resting and enalapril challenged (EC) plasma renin activity (PRA) were all determined. Renal artery stenosis was excluded by noninvasive imaging. Of the 23 patients, eight eventually lost their renal allografts, while 15 maintained satisfactory renal function (Scr less than 2.5). Results of this study show that: 1) worsening renal function (RF) increases EC reactivity; 2) the presence of proteinuria is not itself related to increase in EC activity; 3) renin before and after EC was higher (P = .06) in the allograft loss group. In this study, patients with high PRA represent the highest EC responses. Therefore, they display not macrovascular lesions, but microvascular intrarenal disease; this defect is most likely secondary to chronic immunologic insult. 
Diffuse uterine leiomyomatosis with hemorrhage. A 28-year-old woman with primary infertility and severe menorrhagia underwent a hysterectomy after failed hormonal therapy for multiple leiomyomas. The postoperative pathologic findings established the diagnosis of diffuse uterine leiomyomatosis, which demonstrated histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural similarity to leiomyomas of the uterus. The rapid growth of the tumor coincided with the administration of clomiphene citrate, an estrogenic agonist. As with the common leiomyoma, intralesional hemorrhage in this case of diffuse leiomyomatosis was associated with norethindrone acetate treatment given after the cessation of clomiphene therapy. 
Myocardial infarction with minimal coronary atherosclerosis in the era of thrombolytic reperfusion. The Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) Study Group. The incidence of minimal residual atherosclerotic coronary obstruction after successful intravenous thrombolytic therapy was evaluated in 799 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Minimal residual coronary obstruction (less than or equal to 50%) was observed on selective coronary angiography performed 90 min after initiation of thrombolytic therapy in 43 patients (5.5%). In 42 other patients (5.4%), a greater than 50% but less than 100% residual stenosis noted at 90 min demonstrated further resolution of obstruction to less than 50% at an angiographic follow-up study 7 to 10 days later. Patients with minimal residual coronary obstruction were significantly younger (52 +/- 10.7 versus 56.7 +/- 10 years; p = 0.002) and had less multivessel coronary disease (p less than 0.001), better initial left ventricular ejection fraction (54 +/- 12% versus 50.2 +/- 11.4%; p = 0.006) and a lower in-hospital mortality rate (1% versus 7%; p = 0.04) than did patients who had a significant (greater than 50%) residual coronary obstruction after intravenous thrombolysis. Long-term follow-up study of patients with a minimal coronary lesion (average 1.5 +/- 0.6 years) and those with significant residual stenosis (average 1.6 +/- 0.7 years) demonstrated that the incidence of death (2.4% in patients with minimal stenosis versus 3.5% in those with significant stenosis) and recurrent myocardial infarction (5% each) were similar in both groups. New strategies are needed to prevent coronary rethrombosis in patients with minimal atherosclerosis after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. 
Effectiveness of glibenclamide on myocardial ischemic ventricular arrhythmias in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Glibenclamide, a hypoglycemic sulfonylurea, is a blocker of the adenosine triphosphatase-modulated potassium ion channels. The opening of these channels in the myocardial cells, induced by acute myocardial hypoxia, can be responsible for ischemic ventricular arrhythmias. To evaluate the antiarrhythmic effects of this drug 19 non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients were selected. They had coronary artery disease and evidence on Holter monitoring of ventricular premature complexes or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, or both, induced by transient myocardial ischemia. In all patients, 24-hour electrocardiographic monitoring was performed to evaluate the number and duration of myocardial ischemic events, the frequency of ventricular premature complexes and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia per minute of ischemia and the percentage of ventricular premature complexes versus total ischemic beats. Selected patients were classified in 2 groups: group A (9 patients) received metformin (placebo) and group B (10 patients) was treated with glibenclamide. On the fourteenth day patients underwent 24-hour control monitoring. Then a crossover between the 2 groups was made and a new Holter monitoring sequence was performed at the end of the second phase. Results indicate that glibenclamide significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced both the frequency of ventricular premature complexes and the episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia during transient myocardial ischemia, but did not change the number and duration of acute myocardial ischemic attacks and did not reduce the spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias. Thus, glibenclamide appears to have an antiarrhythmic effect in preventing ventricular arrhythmias induced by transient myocardial ischemia. 
AAEM minimonograph #11: Needle examination in clinical electromyography. The physiologic and histologic principles underlying clinical electromyographic studies are briefly reviewed as an introduction to the normal and abnormal findings in human subjects. Technical aspects of recordings as well as the specific types of discharges and their significance are discussed. 
Importance of chloride in the development of salt-induced angiotensin II hypertension in rats. This study attempted to evaluate the effect of anion associated with sodium loading on the development of angiotensin II (AII)-induced hypertension in rats. Hypertension was induced by intraperitoneal infusion of AII(125 ng/min) for 12 days via miniosmotic pump (systolic blood pressure on day 12, 143 +/- 3 mm Hg). High dietary intake of sodium chloride significantly augmented the AII-induced hypertension (systolic blood pressure on day 12, 166 +/- 4 mm Hg), but equimolar sodium loading provided as sodium citrate failed to enhance AII hypertension (systolic blood pressure on day 12, 136 +/- 8 mm Hg). Thus, the data suggest that the full expression of salt (NaCl) sensitivity in AII hypertension depends on high dietary intake of both sodium and chloride. 
Concomitant medical disease and headache. The treatment of headache disorders in patients with concomitant medical illness constitutes one of the more challenging areas of headache therapy. As new agents are added to our pharmacologic armamentarium, it will become easier to tailor therapy to our patients. The physician who treats the headache patient with concomitant medical illness must be particularly aware of drug side effects and pharmacology in order to prevent a worsening of underlying medical conditions or an exacerbation of headaches. 
Augmentation of reverse arthus reaction by mast cells in mice. Immune complex-induced injury is an important pathogenic factor in antibody-mediated nephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and other diseases. In this study we investigated the role mast cells in immune complex-mediated injury in mouse skin. Reverse Arthus reaction was induced in mast cell-deficient WBB6F1-W/Wv mice and their congenic controls (WBB6F1(-)+/+). Serial skin sections were evaluated for neutrophil infiltration, edema, and hemorrhage. In WBB6F1-W/Wv mice the neutrophil influx was only 40% and edema 60% of that in congenic controls. Hemorrhage was also significantly reduced in the mast cell-deficient mice. After mast cell reconstitution, the magnitude of the reaction in WBB6F1-W/Wv was equivalent to that in WBB6F1(-)+/+ mice. Mast cell release in reverse Arthus reaction was evaluated by measuring fluorescence intensity after avidin-FITC staining of mast cell granules. There was a 70% decrease in fluorescence intensity. The 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor A-63162 significantly decreased neutrophil accumulation (40%), edema (60%), and hemorrhage in WBB6F1(-)+/+, but not in mast cell-deficient mice. Mast cell reconstitution of WBB6F1-W/Wv mice restored the effect of A-63162. The results indicate that mast cells and their mediators, including leukotrienes, make an important contribution to reverse Arthus reaction. 
The significance of myoclonic status epilepticus in postanoxic coma. We report 11 adults who exhibited myoclonic status epilepticus (MSE) after cardiac arrest. Based on pathologic, electroencephalographic, and clinical evidence, we conclude that our patients died from the initial anoxic-ischemic insult rather than as a result of MSE. We suggest that the seizures in these nonsurvivors were self-limited events arising from lethal damage to neurons. Thus, in patients with bilaterally synchronous facial myoclonus, bilateral loss of pupillary or oculovestibular reflexes, and suppression and burst-suppression on EEG, it is not warranted to use anesthetic barbiturates to treat MSE. 
Cyst of the ligamentum flavum: report of six cases. Six cases of cyst of the ligamentum flavum with compression of a lumbar nerve root are reported. All patients exhibited recurrent back pain and sciatica. Investigation included computed tomography, myelography, or both. The correct diagnosis was reached before operation in only half the patients. High-resolution computed tomography performed in the four last patients outlined the cystic lesion with its low-density center. Surgical excision was performed in all patients. Microscopic examination showed a dense fibrous cyst arising from the ligamentum flavum. The lumen contained myxoid or necrotic material, but no epithelial lining. Cysts of the ligamentum flavum must be considered in the differential diagnosis of causes of sciatica. A firm radiological diagnosis may, at present, still require myelography combined with high-resolution computed tomography. Differentiation from synovial or ganglion cysts of the spine is discussed. 
Acute lower limb ischemia: failure of anticoagulant treatment to improve one-month results of arterial thromboembolectomy. A prospective randomized multi-center study. The value of short-term anticoagulant treatment in improving the early outcome in patients operated on for acute lower-limb ischemia has been debated and so far unproven. In this prospective randomized multi-center study, 188 such patients were randomized on admission, either to preoperative and postoperative anticoagulant medication (AC group, n = 94) or no anticoagulant treatment during the first month after surgery (O group, n = 94). Background factors were evenly distributed in the two groups, and 89% of the cases were considered as embolic. Analysis on an intention-to-treat basis showed no differences in outcome after 30 days. Good results, survivors who had amputation, and patients who died in the two groups are given respectively: AC group, 61%, 9%, 30%; O group, 65%, 11%, 24%. The results were similar in the two treatment groups also if only patients with a cardiac source of embolism were analyzed. Local bleeding complications were more common in the AC group (17% vs 2%, p less than 0.01). It is concluded that preoperative and early postoperative anticoagulant medication should not be routinely administered since such treatment is unlikely to improve the short-term results of lower-limb arterial thromboembolectomy while bleeding complications increase. The possible value of late (beyond 1 month) long-term anticoagulant treatment remains to be studied. 
Distribution of carbon flux within fatty acid utilization during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. Twenty-nine intact, working pig hearts were extracorporeally perfused and divided into two study groups (16 Aerobic and 13 Ischemic/Reflow hearts). Step function, equilibrium labeling with [14C]palmitate was used to develop uptake and washout curves of radioactive fatty acid products contained in coronary effluent during either aerobic perfusion or reperfusion after ischemia (60% reduction in left anterior descending coronary flow for 30 minutes). Left anterior descending control flows were slightly overperfused in Aerobic hearts (18% higher than in Ischemic/Reflow hearts); otherwise, circumflex and right coronary flows, left ventricular pressure, and serum fatty acids and blood sugar levels were comparable between groups. As expected in Ischemic/Reflow hearts, recovery of regional systolic shortening and myocardial oxygen consumption in reperfusion was only modestly impaired (-20% and -19%, respectively, not significant and p less than 0.011 compared with preischemic values, not significant from Aerobic hearts). The only significant metabolized product to be released from labeled fatty acid utilization in either group was 14CO2. A smaller fatty acid pool also was measured and accounted for by that contained in the coronary intravascular volume. We could determine no significant back diffusion of fatty acids from myocardium in either perfusion condition. Uptake time constants of the early phase of 14CO2 production also were virtually identical in both groups (19.9 +/- 3.2 versus 16.7 +/- 3.2 minutes in Aerobic and Ischemic/Reflow hearts, respectively) and strongly correlated with hemodynamics as described by heart rate. In washout studies, tissue radioactivity in the aqueous soluble and fatty acid pools declined in both study groups, and counts in complex lipids and cholesterol/cholesteryl esters remained steady, whereas those in triacylglycerols varied. Washout of 14CO2 in both groups never reached background radioactivity over a 40-minute sampling after cessation of isotope infusion into the perfusate, suggesting slow release of trapped substrate from intracellular pools, which then proceeded to fatty acid oxidation. In conclusion, these experiments have demonstrated very similar findings with respect to fatty acid uptake, storage, and release characteristics between aerobic and reperfused myocardium. We found no differences in preferred substrate utilization and oxidation as a result of reversible ischemia followed by reflow. 
Improved results with the addition of interferon alfa-2b to dacarbazine in the treatment of patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. Sixty-four patients with histologically confirmed metastatic malignant melanoma were entered on a prospectively controlled randomized trial. Patients received dacarbazine (DTIC) alone or DTIC plus interferon (IFN) alfa-2b. Patients were reasonably balanced with respect to age, sex, performance status (PS), site of metastases, and number of metastatic sites. Objective response (complete plus partial remission [CR + PR]) was documented in six patients on DTIC and in 16 patients on DTIC plus IFN alfa-2b. Median time to treatment failure (TTF) and median survival are significantly better on the combination arm, with some long-term CRs observed. More toxicity was encountered in the combination arm, which was acceptable except in three patients where treatment was discontinued because of IFN toxicity. 
The cognitive and psychological sequelae of uncomplicated aneurysm surgery. Many patients are left with psychological symptoms after surgery for a ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Often the reason for these symptoms is not clear. A prospective study was carried out of 27 patients who were in a good (Grade 1 or 2) condition before operation to identify the origin of such symptoms and discover whether the basic techniques of aneurysm surgery could lead to serious psychological sequelae even in the absence of any specific complication. Each patient was given a modified psychometric assessment just before surgery and at the time of discharge from hospital. One year later a full psychometric and social assessment was carried out. Even a temporary worsening of psychometric performance did not occur unless there had been some specific surgical or post-operative problem. Five patients showed worsening of psychometric performance in the immediate post-operative period but by one year, only two of the 27 patients showed any abnormalities on formal psychometric evaluation; in both, clear reasons were evident. Although the majority of patients reported minor psychological symptoms, these had not hindered full functional recovery, and we doubt whether they had any organic basis. It is concluded that aneurysm surgery does not, itself, threaten higher intellectual function unless some specific complication occurs. 
Unexplained syncope evaluated by electrophysiologic studies and head-up tilt testing. OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical characteristics of subgroups of patients with unexplained syncope having electrophysiologic studies and head-up tilt testing and to assess the efficacy of various therapies. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Inpatient services of a tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: Eighty-six consecutively referred patients with unexplained syncope. MEASUREMENTS: All patients had electrophysiologic examinations. Patients with negative results subsequently had head-up tilt testing. MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-nine (34%) patients (group 1) had abnormal electrophysiologic results, with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced in 72%. Thirty-four (40%) patients (group 2) had syncope provoked by head-up tilt testing. The cause of syncope remained unexplained in 23 (26%) patients (group 3). Structural heart disease was present in 76%, 6%, and 30% of groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. In group 1, pharmacologic or nonpharmacologic therapy was recommended based on electrophysiologic evaluation. All group 2 patients had negative results on head-up tilt testing while receiving oral beta blockers (27 patients) or disopyramide (7 patients). Group 3 patients did not receive any specific therapy. During a median follow-up period of 18.5 months, syncope recurred in 9 (10%) patients. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of electrophysiologic evaluation and head-up tilt testing can identify the underlying cause of syncope in as many as 74% of patients presenting with unexplained syncope. Therapeutic strategies formulated according to the results of these diagnostic tests appear to prevent syncope effectively in most patients. 
Transantral sphenoethmoidectomy: a procedure for the 1990s? Currently, among otolaryngologists, much attention is focused on the surgical management of paranasal sinus disease. However, transantral sphenoethmoidectomy is rarely mentioned in the literature of the past several decades. We reviewed a consecutive series of 98 patients over a 12-year period who underwent transantral sphenoethmoidectomy in the treatment of severe chronic hyperplastic pansinusitis. The major and minor complications encountered are tabulated, as are the clinical outcomes. A description of the operative technique is followed by a discussion of the indications for this approach. We believe transantral sphenoethmoidectomy has a useful place in modern paranasal sinus surgery. 
Deliberate hypotension with nicardipine or nitroprusside during total hip arthroplasty. To induce deliberate hypotension during anesthesia, nicardipine was administered to patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty and was randomly compared with nitroprusside. Hemodynamic measurements were performed before and 10, 20, 30, and 60 min after starting to administer either nicardipine (n = 12) or nitroprusside (n = 12) (B, T1, T2, T3, and T4, respectively); at the end of drug infusion (T5); and 10, 20, and 60 min later (T6, T7, and T8, respectively). Plasma renin activity and catecholamine levels were measured at B, T1, T5, T6, and T7. In addition, plasma nicardipine concentration was measured in five patients at T1, T2, T5, T7, and T8. As with nitroprusside, nicardipine administration (1-3 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, after a titration dose of 4.7 +/- 1.5 mg) resulted in hypotension (up to -34% +/- 3%), a decrease in systemic vascular resistances (up to -49% +/- 4%), and increases in heart rate (up to +17% +/- 6%), cardiac index (up to +37% +/- 8%), plasma norepinephrine (up to +63% +/- 17%) and epinephrine (up to +232% +/- 68%) levels, and plasma renin activity (up to +336% +/- 207%). Ten and 20 minutes after discontinuation of the hypotensive drug, nicardipine led to persistent vasodilation and hypotension, which differed significantly from the hypertensive rebound observed after nitroprusside discontinuation, despite a similar increase in plasma renin activity and catecholamine levels. Our results indicate that after the infusion was terminated, the nicardipine-induced vasodilation was opposed to the vasoconstrictive effects of angiotensin II and catecholamines, thus avoiding hypertensive rebound. 
Unexplained syncope evaluated by electrophysiologic studies and head-up tilt testing. OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical characteristics of subgroups of patients with unexplained syncope having electrophysiologic studies and head-up tilt testing and to assess the efficacy of various therapies. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Inpatient services of a tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: Eighty-six consecutively referred patients with unexplained syncope. MEASUREMENTS: All patients had electrophysiologic examinations. Patients with negative results subsequently had head-up tilt testing. MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-nine (34%) patients (group 1) had abnormal electrophysiologic results, with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced in 72%. Thirty-four (40%) patients (group 2) had syncope provoked by head-up tilt testing. The cause of syncope remained unexplained in 23 (26%) patients (group 3). Structural heart disease was present in 76%, 6%, and 30% of groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. In group 1, pharmacologic or nonpharmacologic therapy was recommended based on electrophysiologic evaluation. All group 2 patients had negative results on head-up tilt testing while receiving oral beta blockers (27 patients) or disopyramide (7 patients). Group 3 patients did not receive any specific therapy. During a median follow-up period of 18.5 months, syncope recurred in 9 (10%) patients. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of electrophysiologic evaluation and head-up tilt testing can identify the underlying cause of syncope in as many as 74% of patients presenting with unexplained syncope. Therapeutic strategies formulated according to the results of these diagnostic tests appear to prevent syncope effectively in most patients. 
Arrhythmias in heart failure--therapeutic challenges. Electrophysiologic disorders are common at all stages of heart failure due to myocardial mechanical factors, neuroendocrine disturbances, electrolyte abnormalities, or ischemia, and also because of cardiovascular drugs. The prevalence of various forms of heart block, bradycardias, and arrhythmias in heart failure is largely unknown, as is their relationship to the etiology of the syndrome. Complex and multiform ventricular premature beats and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia are common, and their frequency is broadly related to the severity of heart failure. Supraventricular arrhythmias are also common features of the syndrome. The heart failure syndrome has an ominous prognosis. Approximately half the patients die suddenly, but the causal relationship between preexisting arrhythmias and sudden death is not known. Equally vital is knowledge of the influence of drug therapy on the arrhythmias of heart failure, but at present this is scarce and needs further study. 
Headache spectrum in Arnold-Chiari malformation. Exertional headaches in patients with Arnold-Chiari malformation (ACM) are well described. We report four patients with Type I ACM and recurrent headaches. These patients presented, respectively, with low spinal fluid pressure headache, migraine without aura, migraine with aura, and migraine with prolonged aura. This report suggests the need for observing patients with recurrent headaches for any physical stigmata of craniovertebral junction anomalies, and the need to exclude ACM in such patients. Possible implications of the association between ACM and different types of headaches are discussed. 
Vocal cord paralysis in the Shy-Drager syndrome. A cause of postoperative respiratory obstruction. A case is presented in which unexpected and persistent postoperative respiratory problems led to the finding of bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis and confirmed the diagnosis of the Shy-Drager syndrome. Anaesthetists should be aware that vocal cord paralysis may be a feature of this uncommon condition, and should consider the possibility of glottic obstruction as a cause of ventilatory difficulties. 
PTA and laser assisted PTA combined with simultaneous surgical revascularization. In this study we investigated the efficacy of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and laser percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (LPTA) as an adjunct to surgery in patients with peripheral vascular disease. We report 84 cases of the simultaneous association of direct arterial surgery and angioradiological procedures to treat 82 patients with arterial occlusive disease of the lower limbs. Sixty-five patients (79.2%) were affected by severe claudication and 14 (19.6%) presented with rest pain or gangrene. One patient (1.2%) had signs of acute ischemia. PTA or LPTA were utilized as an inflow procedure in 41 cases (48.8%), as an outflow procedure in 24 (28.6%) and in 19 cases (22.6%) to recanalize an arterial occlusion in the contralateral limb opposite to surgical interventions. Immediate postoperative patency was achieved in 79 cases (94.0%), while in 5 cases (6.0%) it was impossible to perform a satisfactory balloon dilatation. The complication rate was 16.6%: 10 perioperative thromboses, 1 plaque dissection, 1 peripheral embolus, 1 haemorrhage and 1 femoral nerve lesion. No perioperative mortality occurred in this group of patients. Long term patency, analyzed with the life-table method (mean follow-up: 28 months) was respectively 78.0%, 76.3% and 78.9% at 5 years. These data indicate that the combined revascularization technique should always be recommended in properly selected patients because it is less invasive, the surgical risk and operative time are reduced and associated with early and long term cumulative patency rates comparable to those of extensive surgery. 
Study of P wave morphology in lead V1 during supraventricular tachycardia for localizing the reentrant circuit. Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a benign form of tachycardia that generally does not require costly evaluation. The purpose of this study was to describe a new sign permitting delineation of the mechanism of SVT by analysis of the P wave in lead V1 and the left atrial electrogram, which may be registered by the esophageal electrode. Among 146 patients with SVT, 72 had a ventriculoatrial interval greater than 70 msec. The P wave in lead V1 during SVT was discernible in 69 of them. The precession of the left atrial electrogram on the P wave in lead V1 was always associated with reentry through a left lateral (n = 37) or posteroseptal (n = 4) accessory atrioventricular (AV) connection. When the P wave in lead V1 preceded or occurred simultaneously with the left atrial electrogram, reentry was through either the AV node or a right-sided accessory AV connection. On the other hand, although the P wave in lead V1 was more frequently negative in reentry through a right-sided connection and positive in reentry through a left-sided connection, the polarity was not specific enough to identify the reentry. The precession of the left atrial electrogram recorded by the esophageal electrode on the P wave in lead V1 during SVT was a specific criterion of reentry through a left accessory AV connection, and this technique could be useful for preliminary localization of the accessory connection before electrophysiologic study. 
Hyperdynamic circulation in a chronic murine schistosomiasis model of portal hypertension. Chronic murine schistosomiasis is a natural disease model of portal hypertension closely mimicking the clinical and histological features of human hepatic schistosomiasis. We studied the splanchnic and systemic hemodynamics in the murine model of schistosomiasis by radioactive microsphere technique. Mice infected with 60 cercariae of Schistosoma mansoni (n = 8) were studied hemodynamically 11 wk after the infection and were compared with age-matched healthy controls (n = 11). Mean portal venous inflow in the infected mice (3.82 +/- 0.32 ml/min) was 61% higher than in the healthy animals (2.37 +/- 0.25 ml/min; p less than 0.01). A twofold increase in hepatic arterial flow was also seen in mice with schistosomiasis (0.47 +/- 0.14 ml/min) as compared with controls (0.16 +/- 0.03 ml/min; p less than 0.05), whereas splanchnic arteriolar resistance (60.91 +/- 7.64 vs. 101.21 +/- 11.06 mm Hg.min.ml-1.gm; p less than 0.05) and peripheral vascular resistance (112.05 +/- 14.05 vs 254.53 +/- 29.86 mm Hg.min.ml-1.gm; p less than 0.01) were reduced. There was a significant increase in cardiac index (752 +/- 99 vs. 453 +/- 55 ml.min-1.kg body weight-1; p less than 0.05) and reduction in mean arterial pressure (81.37 +/- 3.09 vs. 101.45 +/- 5.85 mm Hg; p less than 0.05) in the infected animals compared with controls. These observations clearly demonstrate the existence of a hyperdynamic circulatory state in this model of portal hypertension. 
Role of adjuvant therapy in colorectal cancer. After nearly three decades of consistently disappointing adjuvant therapy trials in resectable colorectal cancer, recently emerging results offer some basis for cautious optimism. Adjuvant fluorouracil-containing regimens appear to confer a modest treatment benefit in completely resected colonic adenocarcinomas. The two most promising chemotherapy approaches at present appear to be the fluorouracil-levamisole and fluorouracil-leucovorin regimens. The optimal schedule and dose of these agents remains to be determined. Portal vein chemotherapy infusion studies have yielded promising but inconclusive results to date. As data from completed or ongoing large group studies become available, the role of this modality will be better clarified. In rectal cancer, adjuvant radiotherapy alone has a modest but consistent ability to reduce local recurrence without demonstrating any survival advantage. The optimal dose and sequencing of radiotherapy remains poorly defined. Two completed cooperative group studies strongly suggest that the optimal use of radiotherapy is in combination with chemotherapy. The independent role of chemotherapy in rectal cancer remains unclear. There is suggestive evidence that adjuvant chemotherapy is more effective with rectal cancer than with primaries arising proximal to the peritoneal reflection. Despite the large number of unresolved questions that remain, the following interim treatment recommendations can be made: 1. Patients with Dukes' B and C rectal and colonic adenocarcinomas should be entered into an appropriate adjuvant clinical trial when feasible. 2. Outside the setting of a protocol, there is a sound rationale to treat Dukes' B and C rectal cancer with combination chemotherapy and postoperative radiotherapy. The chemotherapy could consist of fluorouracil either alone or combined with leucovorin. 3. In more proximal colonic tumors (above the pelvic peritoneal reflection), recently described improvements in survival for patients with Dukes' B disease suggests that adjuvant therapy should be withheld in this group when not participating in a clinical study. Patients with Dukes' C tumors should receive fluorouracil-levamisole. 
Obstructive sleep apnea in children with Down syndrome. Children with Down syndrome have many predisposing factors for the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS), yet the type and severity of OSAS in this population has not been characterized. Fifty-three subjects with Down syndrome (mean age 7.4 +/- 1.2 [SE] years; range 2 weeks to 51 years) were studied. Chest wall movement, heart rate, electroculogram, end-tidal PO2 and PCO2, transcutaneous PO2 and PCO2, and arterial oxygen saturation were measured during a daytime nap polysomnogram. Sixteen of these children also underwent overnight polysomnography. Nap polysomnograms were abnormal in 77% of children; 45% had obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), 4% had central apnea, and 6% had mixed apneas; 66% had hypoventilation (end-tidal PCO2 greater than 45 mm Hg) and 32% desaturation (arterial oxygen saturation less than 90%). Overnight studies were abnormal in 100% of children, with OSA in 63%, hypoventilation in 81%, and desaturation in 56%. Nap studies significantly underestimated the presence of abnormalities when compared to overnight polysomnograms. Seventeen (32%) of the children were referred for testing because OSAS was clinically suspected, but there was no clinical suspicion of OSAS in 36 (68%) children. Neither age, obesity, nor the presence of congenital heart disease affected the incidence of OSA, desaturation, or hypoventilation. Polysomnograms improved in all 8 children who underwent tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, but they normalized in only 3. It is concluded that children with Down syndrome frequently in have OSAS, with OSA, hypoxemia, and hypoventilation. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is seen frequently in those children in whom it is not clinically suspected. It is speculated that OSAS may contribute to the unexplained pulmonary hypertension seen in children with Down syndrome. 
Blood transfusion and recurrent Crohn's disease. The effect of blood transfusion on the postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease has been investigated. Clinical and pathological data from 197 patients treated by right hemicolectomy between 1947 and 1988 have been analysed. Symptomatic recurrences confirmed radiologically or histologically have been recorded and cumulative recurrence rates calculated for transfused and non-transfused patients. Perioperative blood transfusion does not influence the development of recurrent disease (log rank test, chi 2 = 0.112). 
Tuberous sclerosis with primary meningioma of the maxillary antrum. Primary extracranial meningiomas are uncommon; they have been documented in the ear, skin, orbit, parapharyngeal space, parotid gland, mediastinum, and rarely the paranasal sinuses. Tuberous sclerosis is an autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome characterized by multiple connective tissue tumours. We report the first case of a tuberous sclerosis patient with a maxillary antral meningioma. 
Pregnancy-induced hypertension and low birth weight: the role of calcium. Considerable interest has developed regarding the role of calcium in the regulation of blood pressure. Epidemiologic investigations, laboratory evaluations, and clinical trials all confirm that the relationship between calcium and blood pressure extends to include the pregnant state. On the basis of current information it is clear that calcium supplementation during pregnancy lowers blood pressure. Additionally, the effect of calcium on blood pressure may influence the incidence and/or gestational age of development of preeclampsia. Additionally, the effect on smooth-muscle relaxation detected in calcium-supplemented patients may affect the incidence of prematurity. Although the mechanism for these effects has not been entirely elucidated, calcium supplementation appears to affect circulating concentrations of parathyroid hormone and renin, which may modulate intracellular ionized calcium, resulting in the observed effect on smooth-muscle relaxation. This effect may also be responsible for reduced uterine activity and for a lowering of the incidence of prematurity. 
Active idiopathic ulcerative colitis in a patient with ongoing HIV-related immunodepression. It is suspected that immune mechanisms are important in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis. The following is a case report of a patient with human immunodeficiency virus-related immunodeficiency whose ulcerative colitis ran a course independent of the depression of his peripheral CD4 cells. Thus, peripheral CD4 cells may have little role in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis. 
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug therapy in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Lack of association between clinical improvement and effects on sleep. Thirteen patients with rheumatoid arthritis (mean +/- SD age 55.8 +/- 10.5 years) received 20 mg of tenoxicam daily for 90 days following a 3-7 day "washout" period and 4 days of placebo treatment. Clinical evaluations were conducted at the end of the washout period and at monthly intervals thereafter. All-night polysomnography was performed in a sleep laboratory during the last 2 days of placebo treatment and on days 13, 14, 89, and 90 of tenoxicam treatment. Although there was improvement in the patients' clinical condition, there were no treatment-related changes in any of the sleep parameters. Eight of the 13 patients, however, were found to have primary sleep disorders. Four had periodic leg movements during sleep, 3 had sleep apneas, and 1 had a combination of both disorders. The implications of these findings in the treatment of sleep disorders in patients with rheumatoid arthritis are discussed. 
Induced hypertension during restoration of flow after temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat: effect on neuronal injury and edema. The effect of hypertension instituted during restoration of flow after focal ischemia was studied. After the middle cerebral artery (MCA) of 12 rats was occluded for 2 hours, the ligatures were released and flow was restored for a period of 2 hours. In the control group, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was not manipulated. In the hypertensive group, the MAP was elevated by 25-30 mm Hg immediately after reestablishment of MCA patency. The area of neuronal injury, determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium staining, was significantly smaller in the hypertensive group. Specific gravity, determined by microgravimetry, did not differ between groups. The data demonstrate that modest hypertension, when induced during reperfusion after 2 hours of MCA occlusion, reduces neuronal injury and does not exacerbate edema formation. 
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of gall stones: an in vitro comparison between an electrohydraulic and a piezoceramic device. A comparative study of the effectiveness of two types of lithotripter in fragmenting gall bladder stones is reported. The machines used were a Piezolith 2300, which generates shock waves by the piezoceramic principle, and a Dornier MPL 9000, which produces the shock waves by underwater spark discharge. With each machine, corresponding stones of 45 pairs of weight and volume matched calculi (median volume 0.5 cm3, median diameter 10.5 mm) obtained at cholecystectomy were treated. All stones were successfully disintegrated (fragments smaller than 2 mm) with up to 5400 (median 628) shocks with the Piezolith and 3450 (median 428) shocks with the MPL 9000 lithotripters. With the Piezolith, operating at the highest power setting, a 1.65 fold median higher number of shocks was required for stone fragmentation than with the MPL 9000 at a medium power setting. Stone volume seemed to be the only determinant which affected ease of fragmentation; composition and density of the stones as assessed by computed tomography did not seem to be governing factors. 
Combined split anterior tibial-tendon transfer and intramuscular lengthening of the posterior tibial tendon. Results in patients who have a varus deformity of the foot due to spastic cerebral palsy. Twenty patients who had a varus deformity of the foot secondary to spastic cerebral palsy had twenty-two operations involving combined split anterior tibial-tendon transfer and intramuscular lengthening of the posterior tibial tendon, with and without concomitant lengthening of the Achilles tendon. Preoperatively, all patients had had a dynamic varus deformity of the hindfoot and adduction of the forefoot in both the stance phase and the swing phase of gait. At an average follow-up of 6.2 years (range, 2.3 to 8.8 years), there were fourteen excellent, four good, and four poor clinical results. Two patients who had a fixed varus deformity of the hindfoot and one patient who had a very weak anterior tibial muscle had a poor result. We concluded that the combined procedure is effective for correction of a flexible varus deformity of the foot in patients who have spastic cerebral palsy. 
Positive regulation of human thyrotropin receptor mRNA by thyrotropin. We have assessed the influence of natural and recombinant thyrotropin (TSH) on mRNA specific for the human TSH receptor (TSHR) in normal and abnormal adult human thyroid monolayer cells. Using physiological concentrations of TSH (less than 100 mU/L), a marked increase in the level of TSHR mRNA was observed within 12 hours and reached a greater than 1000% increase after 24 hours exposure. At high TSH concentrations (greater than 1000 mU/L), this increase in TSHR-specific mRNA was markedly reduced. However, at no time were basal TSHR mRNA levels suppressed even with 100 U/L of TSH for 48 hours. These observations demonstrate ligand-induced up-regulation of the human TSHR mRNA by physiologically relevant concentrations of TSH. 
Spinal and supraspinal correlates of nociception in man. The objective of this work was to simultaneously measure pain-related spinal and supraspinal physiological responses in humans. The sural nerve compound action potential (CAP), the spinal withdrawal reflex (RIII), the somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) and subjective magnitude ratings were elicited by electrical stimulation of the sural nerve in 10 healthy subjects. The sural nerve CAP was used to normalize the evoking stimulus current and to help identify the peripheral nerve afferent types contributing to the physiological and psychophysical responses. Normalizing stimulus current to a proportion of that which elicited a just maximal sural nerve CAP significantly reduced individual variability in magnitude ratings, the RIII and the SEP. Pain and RIII responses only occurred at stimulus levels that were greater than or equal to 1.5 x that which produced a just maximal sural nerve CAP and both responses were positively related to stimulus intensity above that level. Activity in the large diameter A beta fibers will be saturated at stimulus levels near that which produced a just maximal CAP, which implies that both the pain and RIII responses can be attributed to recruitment of the smaller diameter A delta fibers. Although the amplitudes of the P200 and P300 peaks of the SEP were significantly related to stimulation at noxious levels, both were also affected by stimulation at innocuous levels. This result implies that these peaks receive contributions from both noxious and innocuous somatosensory processes. Clearly, the non-pain-related components of these SEP peaks must be identified and isolated before their potential in measuring supraspinal nociceptive processes can be fully realized. 
Microscopic hematuria: advances in identification of glomerular dysmorphic erythrocytes. The high diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of microscopically visible, typically glomerular dysmorphic erythrocytes for identification of the cause of glomerular bleeding have been recognized worldwide. Although glomerular dysmorphic erythrocytes are simple to detect on phase contrast microscopy, immediate microscopic diagnosis still is indispensable, since a change in the morphology of the erythrocytes with restriction of the diagnostic relevance is anticipated because of the high autolytic potency of the urine. It may be postulated that this need for immediate diagnosis has led to the method being neglected owing to the high work load at hospitals and physician offices. Moreover, a physician who does not perform microscopic investigations or who lacks experience with the method will not be able to use this diagnostic technique, since it appeared to be impossible to transport urine samples by mail. In the context of a study comprising 30 patients, of whom 10 had histologically confirmed glomerulonephritis, we have shown that glomerular dysmorphic erythrocytes have a manifest form stability for at least 3 days. The preservative used was thimerosal. Also, the urine can be investigated independent of time even after alcoholic Papanicolaou staining without an alteration of erythrocyte morphology. The practicality of the form stability of glomerular erythrocytes can be exploited in everyday medical routine. There are well founded prospects that the rate of early diagnosis of glomerulonephritis will increase. 
Fasting gastric pH and its relationship to true hypochlorhydria in humans. Abnormally low rates of gastric acid secretion (hypochlorhydria) are associated with bacterial overgrowth, enteric infection, and with hypergastrinemia and an increased risk of gastric neoplasms. In the present study, we evaluated the ability of fasting gastric juice pH measurements to detect true hypochlorhydria. True hypochlorhydria was defined as a peak acid output in response to a maximally effective stimulant of acid secretion that was below the lower limit of normal for 365 consecutive healthy subjects. In these healthy subjects, average basal pH was 2.16 +/- 0.09 in men and 2.79 +/- 0.18 in women. In 109 consecutive experiments in 28 subjects with true hypochlorhydria, fasting gastric pH averaged 7.44 +/- 0.11 in men and 7.65 +/- 0.33 in women. Fasting pH exceeded the upper 95% confidence limit of normal (5.09 in men and 6.81 in women) in 102 of the 109 experiments (94%). Thus, fasting pH measurement was a sensitive method for diagnosing bona fide hypochlorhydria. 
Congenital anomalies in children of patients who received chemotherapy for cancer in childhood and adolescence. BACKGROUND. Many patients who have been treated successfully for childhood cancer with regimens that contain one or more mutagenic chemotherapeutic agents are concerned that their own treatment during childhood or adolescence may adversely affect their children. METHODS. To determine the effect of chemotherapy for cancer during childhood and adolescence on the outcome of subsequent pregnancies, we reviewed the records of 306 men and women who had been treated for pediatric cancer and who responded to our questionnaire. One hundred of the 306 patients reported 202 pregnancies. Among the patients who had received chemotherapy as part of their treatment for cancer, 60 patients or wives of patients had had one or more pregnancies of 20 or more weeks' gestation. The 60 former patients had a total of 100 live-born and 2 stillborn children. RESULTS. The frequency of congenital anomalies was 8.1 percent (5 of 62) among the live-born children of the women and 7.9 percent (3 of 38) among the live-born children of the men. Structural congenital cardiac defects were identified in 10.0 percent (2 of 20) of the children of women who had been treated with dactinomycin, as compared with 0.6 percent (144 of 24,153) among the children in a multicenter survey of fetal anomalies (P = 0.0126). We found no relation between the number of mutagens received or the cumulative dose of any agent received and the frequency of congenital anomalies in the children. CONCLUSIONS. These data suggest that treatment of children and adolescents with mutagenic chemotherapeutic agents, in the dose ranges we examined, does not increase the frequency of congenital anomalies in the children subsequently born to the former patients. However, the possible adverse effect of dactinomycin on the children of such patients requires further study. 
Repetitive sinoatrial exit block as the major mechanism of drug-provoked long sinus or atrial pause. Prolonged sinus or atrial pause occurred in six patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia after drug administration. All six patients had normal sinus node function during control electrophysiologic study; the sinus cycle length ranged from 510 to 900 ms (mean 743 +/- 141) and the longest sinus node recovery time ranged from 800 to 1,230 ms (mean 1,018 +/- 168). A long sinus or atrial pause occurring at the termination of tachycardia or cessation of atrial pacing, ranging from 3,100 to 8,200 ms (mean 6,270 +/- 1,674), was provoked by the administration of various drugs. These included an intravenous bolus injection of adenosine triphosphate (5 mg; one patient), intravenous bolus injection of verapamil (5 mg; one patient), a combination of a single oral dose of diltiazem (120 mg) and propranolol (20 to 40 mg; three patients), oral diltiazem (240 mg/day; one patient) and a combination of oral diltiazem (240 mg/day) and propranolol (160 mg/day; one patient). In five patients, low frequency deflections suggestive of sinus node activity with a cycle length between 620 and 3,500 ms were recorded during pauses. These findings suggest that repetitive sinoatrial exit block was responsible for the pause. Sinus slowing with a long arrest suggesting suppression of sinus automaticity was also noted in three of these five patients; the longest sinus arrest in these three patients was 4,160, 4,800 and greater than 4,910 ms, respectively. The remaining patient with a pause of 6,840 ms had no recordable sinus activity, either reflecting suppression of sinus automaticity or technical failure. 
Ultrasonographic findings in thalamus and basal ganglia in term asphyxiated infants. Three severely asphyxiated term neonates demonstrated bilateral hyperechogenicity in the thalamus and basal ganglia. During evolution, areas of attenuated echogenicity appeared in these structures at the same time as periventricular cysts were evident in 2 patients with coexistent periventricular leukomalacia. All 3 patients developed ventricular dilatation; in the 2 patients with periventricular leukomalacia, the ventricular border was irregular in the outer (dorsal) margin, and interhemispheric fissures were widened as a manifestation of cerebral atrophy. Furthermore, the thalamic inner (ventral) margins of the lateral ventricles were irregular in all 3 patients. This previously unrecognized finding points to a particular form of cerebral atrophy localized in the gangliothalamic region that contributes to the development of ventriculomegaly. The reported sonographic sequence implies profound damage in the thalamus and basal ganglia in asphyxiated infants which undoubtedly has contributed to the poor outcomes of our patients. 
Laboratory correlates and prognostic significance of granular acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children. A Pediatric Oncology Group study. As part of a comprehensive prospective clinicopathologic study by the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG), 2,092 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were evaluated by uniform morphologic, cytochemical, and immunologic methods to assess the frequency and implications of granular lymphoblasts. All cases were Sudan black or myeloperoxidase negative and met French-American-British (FAB) morphologic criteria for ALL. Granular ALL, characterized by the presence of more than 5% marrow blasts with at least three clearly defined azurophilic cytoplasmic granules, was identified in 56 of the 1,252 fully studied cases (4.5%). The frequency of granular features did not differ among early pre-B (4.3%), pre-B (3.6%), and T (5.8%) ALL; no cases were identified among the 12 patients with B ALL. Within the early pre-B/pre-B group, granular ALL was equally distributed between good- and poor-risk clinical groups but was more frequent among FAB L2 than FAB L1 cases (12% vs. 2%; P less than or equal to 0.001). Patients were treated with standard POG protocols for early pre-B/pre-B and T ALL. Complete remission (CR) rates were significantly lower for those with granular lymphoblasts, regardless of risk group, immunophenotype, or FAB type. Analysis of event-free survival (EFS) showed a significantly poorer outcome for granular early pre-B/pre-B cases with FAB L2 morphologic characteristics (P less than 0.001) and for those classified as poor risk (P = 0.015). These findings suggest a relationship between granules and L2 morphologic characteristics in childhood ALL and indicate that the presence of granular lymphoblasts conveys a worse prognosis for certain subgroups of children with ALL. 
Lymphomas of true histiocytic origin. Expression of different phenotypes in so-called true histiocytic lymphoma and malignant histiocytosis. The authors determined the phenotypes of neoplastic cells in true histiocytic lymphoma and malignant histiocytosis by using a large panel of monoclonal antibodies and enzyme histochemistry procedures. Although the phenotypes overlapped slightly, the authors noted a distinct pattern in these tumors. The tumor cells of malignant histiocytosis generally expressed the monocyte markers CD11b, CD11c, CD14, and CD45, especially after induction with phorbol ester. In contrast, the tumor cells of true histiocytic lymphoma exhibited a marker expression very similar to that of Reed-Sternberg cells in Hodgkin's disease. These cells expressed markers CD30, 2H9, and 1A2, but rarely expressed CD11b, CD11c, CD14, or CD45. Regardless of their cytologic features, the tumor cells from both types of histiocytic lymphoma exhibited diffuse nonspecific esterase and acid phosphatase activities, and they expressed histiocyte markers CD15, CD68, LN5, 1E9, and M387 to varying degrees. The tumor cells from both lymphomas did not exhibit T- or B-cell markers, T-cell receptor or immunoglobulin gene rearrangements, or gene translation products, even when they were induced with phorbol ester. The phenotypic expression in these two histiocytic malignancies suggests that they are derived from different types of histiocytes, or from histiocytes in different stages of maturation or differentiation, or from histiocytes that have distinct mechanisms of tumorigenic transformation. The expression of circulating monocyte markers in malignant histiocytosis suggests that this tumor originates in monocytes or free histiocytes, whereas the phenotype of true histiocytic lymphoma is compatible with an origin in fixed histiocytes, which generally are devoid of the monocyte markers CD11b and CD14. 
Hypertrophic spinal pachymeningitis: report of two cases and review of the literature. The cases of two patients with idiopathic pachymeningitis hypertrophica that caused progressive paraparesis are presented. Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging was used to demonstrate this pathological entity in one patient, and myelography was used in the other. Decompressive surgery led to significant neurological improvement. The etiology, diagnosis, and management of this disease is discussed, and the literature is reviewed. To our knowledge, this is the first report to describe the features of this rare pathological entity on magnetic resonance imaging. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of vertebrobasilar ectasia in tic convulsif. Case report. A patient with trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm was evaluated using multiplanar magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with gadolinium enhancement. Preoperative images demonstrated massively ectatic vertebral and basilar arteries and their distortion of the brain stem and the trigeminal and facial nerves. Surgical manipulation included selective trigeminal rhizotomy, cushioning of the residual nerve at the point of maximal distortion by the underlying basilar artery, and microvascular decompression of the seventh nerve from the anterior inferior cerebellar artery which was being pushed dorsomedially by the vertebral artery. Postoperatively, the patient had neither trigeminal neuralgia nor facial spasm. Gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging not only excludes other etiologies such as tumor or arteriovenous malformation, but also demonstrates cranial nerve compression by ectatic vertebral and basilar arteries. The choice of preoperative imaging modality is discussed and the literature concerning the etiology of tic convulsif is reviewed. 
Prevention of restenosis by lovastatin after successful coronary angioplasty. Prevention of restenosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) remains a major challenge. To determine whether lovastatin could prevent restenosis, between December 1987 and July 1988, a total of 157 patients undergoing successful PTCA were randomly and prospectively assigned to the lovastatin group or a control group. Seventy-nine patients received lovastatin (20 mg daily if the serum cholesterol level was less than 300 mg/dl and 40 mg daily if the serum cholesterol level was greater than or equal to 300 mg/dl) in addition to conventional therapy (lovastatin group). Seventy-eight patients received conventional therapy alone (control group). Fifty patients in the lovastatin group and 29 in the control group were evaluated with coronary angiography at an interval of 2 to 10 months (mean 4 months). The restenosis rate was evaluated according to the number of patients showing restenosis, the number of vessels restenosed, and the number of PTCA sites restenosed. Restenosis was defined as the presence of greater than 50% stenosis of the PTCA site. In the lovastatin group 6 of 50 patients (12%) had restenosis compared with 13 of 29 patients (44.4%) in the control group (p less than 0.001). When the number of vessels restenosed was considered, only 9 of 72 vessels (12.5%) restenosed in the lovastatin group compared with 13 of 34 vessels (38.2%) in the control group (p less than 0.002). Similarly, 10 of 80 (12.5%) PTCA sites restenosed in the lovastatin group compared with 15 of 36 (41.7%) in the control group (p less than 0.001). 
Headaches due to spontaneous internal carotid artery dissection magnetic resonance imaging evaluation and follow up. Spontaneous internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection is not an infrequent cause of headache and acute neurologic deficits in the younger population. Angiography has been the imaging modality of choice for both diagnosis and follow-up. The use of magnetic resonance imaging, (MRI), in conjunction with angiography, is described in three patients shown to have ICA dissection. Our clinical findings suggest that MRI may provide a less expensive, non-invasive, diagnostic and particularly a follow up modality in patients with headache and signs suggestive of ICA dissection. 
Prognostic factors in colorectal carcinoma treated by preoperative radiotherapy and immediate surgery. The clinicopathologic staging of colorectal cancer is the subject of recent debate. We studied morphologic variables in a series of tumors resected from 284 patients. Half had been prospectively, randomly allocated to receive a 4-day schedule of preoperative pelvic radiotherapy followed by immediate surgery. There was a significant (P less than 0.01) difference in the distribution of tumors of various histopathologic grades between irradiated (XS) and unirradiated (S) patients and borderline differences in the predictive values of venous spread, tumor grading, and local spread. However, these differences were less marked in 180 tumors examined by one review pathologist. They were thought to be due to misinterpretation of changes induced by radiotherapy. No differences were detected in the distribution of tumors of various sizes and Dukes' stage in the XS and S groups. The review pathologist recorded a borderline (P = 0.049) difference in the distribution of tumors of various CEA staining patterns between the XS and S groups. In a Cox regression model. Dukes' staging remained the most important predictive variable for survival and pelvic recurrence in the XS and S groups. Dukes' staging was apparently unchanged by this schedule of preoperative radiotherapy, but Broders' grading may be unreliable. Any new clinicopathologic staging system for colorectal cancer should record when preoperative radiotherapy is delivered. More studies of radiotherapy effects are required. 
Chlamydia trachomatis in the etiology of acute otitis media. In an effort to show that Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) may be involved in the causation of acute otitis media (AOM), we performed three experiments. In the first, we inoculated the tympanic bullae of 6 chinchillas with CT. Five of the 6 inoculated animals developed CT AOM. In the second experiment, we sprayed the nasopharynx of 10 chinchillas with CT. Of these, 8 developed both pharyngitis and AOM, and in 6, live CT was cultured from the middle ear and pharynx. In the third experiment, 5 chinchillas had their conjunctiva inoculated with CT. Three developed CT conjunctivitis. Of these, 2 developed CT pharyngitis and 1 developed CT AOM. We concluded that CT will cause AOM in the chinchilla by direct inoculation into the middle ear as well as indirectly by infection of the nasopharynx and conjunctiva. 
Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator followed by heparin compared with heparin alone for refractory unstable angina pectoris. Patients with unstable angina pectoris who remain symptomatic despite medical treatment are at high risk of death and myocardial infarction. The incidence of refractory unstable angina was examined in a consecutive series of 103 patients who received conventional medical treatment with nitrates, beta blockers, calcium antagonists and aspirin. During 48 hours of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, 24 patients had greater than or equal to 1 anginal attack, 5 of whom had both painful and painless ischemic episodes. In these 24 patients with unstable angina refractory to conventional medical treatment, the short-term efficacy of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) followed by heparin was assessed and compared with heparin alone in a randomized double-blind trial. Recurrences of ischemic attacks during a 72-hour follow-up period were documented in 9 of the 12 patients given heparin alone. All patients experienced at least 1 symptomatic ischemic episode and 1 patient had both painful and painless ischemia. No patient given rt-PA plus heparin had either symptomatic or asymptomatic ischemic attacks during follow-up. Kaplan-Meier curves analysis demonstrated a significantly higher probability of being ischemia free in the group of patients treated with rt-PA followed by heparin than in the group treated with heparin alone (p less than 0.01). Quantitative coronary arteriography failed to reveal any significant changes of ischemia-related lesions before and after each treatment. This study demonstrates that the combination of rt-PA and heparin has a greater protective effect than heparin alone in treating recurrent ischemic episodes in patients with refractory unstable angina. 
Is melanoma changing? Nine hundred ninety-five cases of melanoma of the head and neck were divided into two groups so that certain comparisons could be made concerning the behavior of melanoma over a 55-year period. One hundred twelve melanomas of the ocular system were excluded from this review. The first group consisted of 660 melanomas seen during a period from 1932 to 1972. The second group consisted of 223 melanomas seen during a period from 1973 to 1987. Thirteen parameters, including sex, age, distribution, pre-existing mole, amelanotic melanoma, delay in diagnosis, classification, levels, local recurrence, regional metastasis, systemic metastasis, morbidity, and survival, were studied to assess the behavior and the variations. There is no question that the most important aspect of the favorable changes that have occurred are because of earlier diagnosis and better management by a larger group of well-trained specialists. There are some subtler changes that could possibly indicate biologic alterations, but this requires more time and study to substantiate. 
A controlled study of disruptive vocalizations among geriatric residents in nursing homes. This paper reports the results of a controlled study comparing geriatric residents in nursing homes who displayed disruptive vocalizations with residents in a comparison group. Two 350-bed nursing homes were surveyed, and it was found that 11% of the residents engaged in disruptive vocalizations, at least once per week, of sufficient severity to require consideration in the resident's care plan. Results show that disruptive vocalizers were more functionally impaired and were more likely to receive a diagnosis of dementia. They were also more likely to display a higher activity level and to experience sleep disturbance and to be prescribed neuroleptic medications. Descriptive data are presented on typology of disruptive vocalizations, likely situations for their occurrence, and the utilization and perceived efficacy of common interventions. Suggestions are made regarding behavioral treatments for this vexing problem. 
Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia and physical and cognitive performance at 17 years of age. To estimate the effect of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia on long-term cognitive ability in full-term newborns with a negative Coombs test, we performed a 17-year historical prospective study of 1948 subjects. Intelligence tests and medical examinations performed at the military draft board were stratified according to serum bilirubin concentration. A logistic regression analysis was used to adjust for the confounding effects of gestational age, birth weight, Apgar score, ethnic origin, socioeconomic class, paternal education, birth order, and the administration of phototherapy and exchange transfusion. No direct linear association was shown between neonatal bilirubin levels and intelligence test scores or school achievement at 17 years of age. However, the risk for low intelligence test scores (IQ score less than 85) was found to be significantly higher (P = .014) among full-term male subjects with serum bilirubin levels above 342 mumol/L (20 mg/dL) (odds ratio, 2.96; 95% confidence interval, 1.29-6.79). This association was not observed among female subjects. We conclude that severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, among full-term male newborns with a negative Coombs test, could be associated with lower IQ scores at 17 years of age. 
Evolution of the treatment of the injured colon in the 1980s. During the past 10 years, 1006 patients with colon injuries were treated in an urban trauma center. Primary repair, including suture repair and resection with anastomosis, was performed in 614 patients (61%), colostomy in 284 patients (28%), and exteriorized repairs in 83 patients (8.3%). In the remaining 25 patients (2.5%) who were exsanguinating, the colon injuries were ligated. Independent risk factors for adverse outcomes (defined as a fecal fistula, abdominal abscess, stomal complication, or death from multisystem failure) were identified using multiple logistic regression analysis. These factors were used to match patients at similar risk within different treatment groups, and odds ratios for each treatment were calculated. The odds ratios for primary repair, colostomy, and exteriorized repair were 1.0, 1.9, and 2.0, respectively. Therefore, the chance of an adverse outcome was twice as great for both exteriorized repair or colostomy as for primary repair. It is concluded that further increases in the use of primary repair are warranted. 
Hamartomas of the breast. The clinical and pathologic findings of 17 hamartomas of the breast were studied. All neoplasms were evident as clinically and mammographically discrete masses. The pathologic findings were varied and included circumscribed fibrocystic disease, adenolipoma, fibroadenoma with fat and fibroadenoma with lobules. The heterologous elements identified were cartilage and smooth muscle. All lesions were treated by simple excision. In this study, four different microscopic patterns of hamartoma are described and the necessity for a close clinicopathologic correlation is pointed out in the diagnosis of this lesion. 
PET studies of fluorodeoxyglucose metabolism in patients with recurrent colorectal tumors receiving radiotherapy. Forty-four patients with recurrent colorectal carcinoma were examined prior to a combination of conventional photon radiotherapy (40 Gy) and neutron therapy (10 Gy). Twenty-one of these underwent a PET examination after photon therapy and 12 also were studied after the end of combined therapy. CEA plasma levels were measured from blood samples taken immediately before the PET study. A significant decrease in FDG uptake despite good palliative results were observed in only 50% of the patients. This may be explained by inflammatory reactions caused by radiation injury. Inflammation and metabolically active residual tumor tissue cannot be distinguished. It is concluded that an observation interval longer than 6 mo may more effectively detect residual tumor activity. In 14 of 41 examinations, an increased FDG uptake was associated with a normal CEA value, and in only two cases were normal FDG uptake values and increased CEA levels found, suggesting that PET is more sensitive than the measurements of CEA plasma levels for tumor recurrence. 
Surgical management of extracranial vertebral artery occlusive disease. Thirty-seven consecutive patients underwent vertebral artery (VA) reconstruction over a 6 years period (1983-1989). Detailed neurologic, medical, and angiographic information was obtained for all patients. Indications for surgery were as follows: (1) stenosis of VA with symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency; (2) very tight stenosis (greater than 75%) of the dominant VA with stenosis or occlusion of the contralateral VA; (3) very tight stenosis of VA with bilateral occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA); (4) very tight stenosis of VA with homolateral ICA lesion eligible for simultaneous repair; (5) very tight stenosis of VA and very tight stenosis of the homo or contralateral carotid siphon. There were 15 isolated vertebral lesions (group I), and 22 were VA lesions associated with lesions of the supraaortic trunks which were simultaneously treated (group II). The reconstructions of the first portion of the VA were 30 (12 of group I and 18 of group II) and reimplantation of the VA into the common carotid artery was the procedure of choice. There were 7 revascularizations of the third portion of the VA at C1-C2 level (3 of group I and 4 of group II): carotid-vertebral bypass, using an autogenous vein graft, was the procedure of choice. Three patients in group II died in the immediate postoperative period from myocardial infarction but no patient presented immediate postoperative neurologic deficits. All symptomatic patients but one were relieved of their symptoms in a median follow-up of 31 months. No postoperative complications were observed. Long-term results were satisfactory in all the 28 patients at their last follow-up visit. 
The role of supplemental lag-screw fixation for open fractures of the tibial shaft treated with external fixation. Ninety-nine open fractures of the tibial shaft were treated with unilateral external fixation with or without supplemental lag-screw fixation. We compared the results in forty-four fractures in which only external fixation was used (control group) with those in fifty-five fractures that were stabilized with lag-screws and external fixation, and we found no statistically significant differences between the two groups with respect to the time to full weight-bearing, the time to union, or the rates of delayed union, osteomyelitis, malunion, superficial or deep pin-track infection, or loosening of the pins. The limbs in which the fracture was treated with external fixation and supplemental lag-screws had more than twice the rate of refracture of the control limbs (11 compared with 5 per cent), and the percentage of fractures having supplemental lag-screw fixation that needed bone-grafting to achieve union was more than twice that in the group treated with external fixation alone. We concluded that the routine use of supplemental lag-screw fixation is not indicated in patients who have an open fracture of the tibial shaft that has been stabilized with external fixation. 
Carcinosarcoma of bladder following long-term cyclophosphamide therapy. Since the advent of long-term cyclophosphamide therapy, an association between this agent and the subsequent development of bladder neoplasms has been documented. Only six sarcomas have been reported, to our knowledge. This report describes the first case in which a leiomyosarcoma and an invasive transitional cell carcinoma (ie, carcinosarcoma) developed in a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with 240 g of cyclophosphamide over a 6.5-year period. 
Granulomatous angiitis of the spinal cord associated with Hodgkin's disease. A 28-year-old man had a 5-month history of focal and generalized neurologic symptoms culminating in a thoracic myelopathy. Evaluation revealed granulomatous angiitis of the spinal cord in association with occult nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease. In previous reports, manifestations indicative of intracranial involvement have dominated the clinical presentation of granulomatous angiitis associated with Hodgkin's disease. Successful therapy for Hodgkin's disease may result in marked improvement of associated granulomatous angiitis, whereas the lack or failure of therapy results in a uniformly fatal outcome. Definitive antemortem diagnosis of granulomatous angiitis requires a biopsy of involved tissue. The cause of granulomatous angiitis, as well as the nature of its association with Hodgkin's disease, remains unexplained. 
Soft-tissue tumors of the foot: value of MR imaging for specific diagnosis. We reviewed MR imaging findings in 14 patients with primary soft-tissue tumors of the foot and compared them with surgical and pathologic findings to determine the value of MR imaging in anatomic localization, delineation, and characterization of such lesions. Nine tumors (64%) were benign, and five (36%) were malignant. The anatomic location (compartment, space, relation to specific tendon) and extent of all tumors were accurately shown by MR imaging. Twelve tumors (86%) were correctly characterized as benign or malignant. Eight (89%) of nine benign lesions showed distinctive MR imaging features that correctly suggested a specific diagnosis. These included hemangioma (high T2-weighted intensity and internal septa), ganglion cyst (homogeneous, high T2-weighted weighted intensity and peritendinous location), plantar fibromatosis (nodularity of plantar aponeurosis with low intensity on all sequences), and pigmented villonodular synovitis (low T2-weighted intensity and lower intensity rim). Aggressive fibromatosis (one case) could not be characterized. Four (80%) of five malignant neoplasms had MR imaging findings suggesting soft-tissue sarcoma. Two synovial sarcomas were inhomogeneous and showed extensive peritendinous growth. Two clear cell sarcomas arose at the origin of the plantar aponeurosis and infiltrated adjacent muscle. A small clear cell sarcoma could not be characterized as benign or malignant. MR imaging of the foot is accurate in showing the extent of soft-tissue tumors, which is helpful for surgical planning. Determination of their specific anatomic location may help characterize some tumors. Although our series is small, it appears that MR imaging often suggests a specific diagnosis in certain benign soft-tissue tumors of the foot and may often correctly distinguish benign from malignant tumors. 
Focal hepatic lesions: differentiation with MR imaging at 0.5 T. Magnetic resonance (MR) examinations of 43 patients with 95 focal hepatic lesions (diameter, greater than 1 cm) were analyzed for lesion shape, homogeneity, and relative signal intensity compared with normal liver parenchyma, spleen, and skeletal muscle. On T1-weighted, balanced, and T2-weighted images, most metastases (74%), cavernous hemangiomas (76%), and cysts (82%) were smooth and round or oval, while the hepatocellular carcinomas all had irregular borders (40%) or were lobulated (60%). All lesions with irregular borders were malignant. Seventy percent of metastatic lesions, 85% of cavernous hemangiomas, and 100% of simple hepatic cysts were of homogeneous signal intensity, while 60% of hepatocellular carcinomas were inhomogeneous. Logistic regression analysis of multiple lesion characteristics showed that inhomogeneous lesions had a high likelihood of malignancy, while markedly hyperintense lesions had a very low probability of being malignant, regardless of other traits. Homogeneous lesions that were isointense or hyperintense compared with spleen on balanced images but were not markedly hyperintense on T2-weighted images also had a high likelihood of malignancy. 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) in Raynaud's phenomenon. Transcutaneous nerve stimulation (TENS) has been described as resulting in vasodilatation. The effect of 2 Hz TENS of the right hand during forty-five minutes on skin temperature and plethysmography of the third digit of both hands and feet and on transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcpO2) of the right hand was compared with that of a control study using indifferent stimulation of the iliopsoas region in 8 patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon. After TENS a slight increase in skin temperature of both hands was found, while plethysmographic amplitude was increased in the contralateral hand only. No changes in TcpO2 occurred. The authors conclude that the observed small effects of TENS are of no clinical value in primary Raynaud's phenomenon. 
Coronary vasoconstriction induced by vasopressin. Production of myocardial ischemia in dogs by constriction of nondiseased small vessels. BACKGROUND. We studied the effect of intracoronary administration of arginine-8-vasopressin on blood flow in nondiseased coronary arteries and determined whether this vasoconstriction was severe enough to produce ischemia in 30 dogs. METHODS AND RESULTS. In group 1 (n = 6), after vasopressin administration coronary blood flow was decreased by 41% (p less than 0.002) without changes in heart rate or aortic pressure, and left ventricular ejection fraction measured by radionuclide angiocardiography was decreased by 18% (p less than 0.0005). In group 2 (n = 6), ischemia was confirmed by measurement of transmural pH changes. Administration of vasopressin decreased subendocardial pH of the infused zone from 7.40 +/- 0.03 to 7.31 +/- 0.07 (p less than 0.01). The subendocardial pH of the zone not infused with vasopressin did not change. To overcome the intrinsic regulation of blood flow, operating primarily in small coronary arteries, we hypothesized that vasopressin must increase resistance primarily in large rather than small coronary arteries. After intracoronary infusion in group 3 (n = 6), however, most (94%) of the increase in resistance during vasopressin administration was explained by an increase of resistance in small coronary arteries. In group 4 (n = 9), vasopressin decreased coronary blood flow by 50% and decreased local shortening by 90% at a time when systemic hemodynamics were unchanged. Coronary constriction induced by vasopressin, or the recovery from it, also was not altered by cyclooxygenase blockade. CONCLUSIONS. Thus, vasopressin produces myocardial ischemia by constricting small, nondiseased coronary arteries severely enough to overcome the competition from normal coronary regulation, and this ischemic event is not mediated by prostaglandin products. 
Clinical characteristics of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced angioedema. We present the cases of two patients with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced angioedema that required intubation for life-threatening airway compromise. This side effect has been previously reported with all ACE inhibitors, but its incidence and potential for a fatal outcome may not be fully appreciated. A review of the literature reveals 227 reports of this reaction with an overall incidence of approximately 0.1% to 0.2%. The etiology is nonimmunogenic and thought to be related to accentuated bradykinin activity. There is no clinical profile that identifies patients at increased risk for this side effect. There are unique clinical characteristics to this idiosyncratic reaction: angioedema may suddenly occur even though the drug has been well tolerated for months or years; symptoms may regress spontaneously while the patient continues the medication, erroneously prompting an alternative diagnosis; the pathology has a special predilection for the tongue, a circumstance that renders orotracheal and nasotracheal intubation difficult; symptoms may progress rapidly despite aggressive medical therapy, necessitating emergency airway procedures; and a rebound phenomenon following successful medical therapy has been described. We recommend intensive medical treatment before angioedema is severe enough to thwart standard methods to ensure a protected airway. Once even minor angioedema is attributed to an ACE inhibitor, an alternative class of antihypertensive medication should be chosen. Individuals with a history of idiopathic angioedema probably should not be given ACE inhibitors. 
Imaging of cystic and cavitary lesions of the spinal cord and canal. The value of MR and intraoperative sonography. This article discusses the utility and technique of magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative spinal sonography in the evaluation of cystic and cavitary lesions of the spinal cord and canal. The pathophysiology and fluid dynamics of these lesions are also discussed. 
Metabolism of prostaglandin F2 alpha in Zellweger syndrome. Peroxisomal beta-oxidation is a major importance for in vivo degradation of prostaglandins in humans. We have recently shown in vitro that the peroxisomal fraction of a rat liver homogenate has the highest capacity to beta-oxidize prostaglandins. In order to evaluate the relative importance of peroxisomes for this conversion also in vivo, we administered [3H]prostaglandin F2 alpha to an infant suffering from Zellweger syndrome, a congenital disorder characterized by the absence of intact peroxisomes. As a control, labeled compound was administered to two healthy volunteers. Urine was collected, fractionated on a SEP-PAK C18 cartridge, and subjected to reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The Zellweger patient was found to excrete prostaglandin metabolites considerably less polar than those of the control subjects. The major urinary metabolite in the control subjects was practically absent in the urine from the Zellweger patient. The major urinary prostaglandin F2 alpha metabolite from the Zellweger patient was identified as an omega-oxidized C20-prostaglandin, 9,11-dihydroxy-15-oxoprost-5-ene-1,20-dioic acid. The major urinary prostaglandin F2 alpha metabolite from the control subjects had chromatographic properties of a tetranor (C16) prostaglandin, in accordance with earlier published data. The present results, in combination with our previous in vitro data, indicate that peroxisomal beta-oxidation is of major importance for in vivo chain shortening of prostaglandins. 
Single photon emission computed tomography in patients with acute hydrocephalus or with cerebral ischaemia after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), cerebral blood flow was studied in eight patients with gradual deterioration in the level of consciousness after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Four had cerebral ischaemia and four had acute hydrocephalus. In patients with cerebral ischaemia, single photon emission computed tomography scanning showed multiple regions with decreased uptake of technetium-99M labelled d,l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime (99mTcHM-PAO) mainly in watershed areas. In patients with acute hydrocephalus, decreased uptake was seen mainly in the basal parts of the brain: around the third ventricle, around the temporal horns of the lateral ventricles, and in the basal part of the frontal lobe. After serial lumbar puncture, there was improvement of the uptake of 99mTc HM-PAO in these basal areas in three (convincingly in two and slightly in the other) of the four patients accompanied by clinical improvement in these three patients. These results suggest that patients with acute hydrocephalus and impaired consciousness after SAH, in contrast to patients with cerebral ischaemia, have decreased cerebral blood flow predominantly in the basal parts of the brain. 
Long-term patient survival after cystectomy for regional metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. The records of 280 patients who underwent pelvic lymphadenectomy and radical cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder between 1971 and 1986 were reviewed. A total of 42 patients had either 1 (stage pN1) or more than 1 (stage pN2) positive lymph nodes (20 and 22 patients, respectively). The over-all 3-year survival rate for patients with positive lymph nodes was 27%, and it was 30 and 18.5% for stages pN1 and pN2 disease, respectively. Kaplan-Meier survival curves revealed a sustained survival advantage for stage pN1 over pN2 disease for the first 3 years (p less than 0.05) but the difference was not significant at 5 years of followup. Eleven patients with negative lymph nodes but local extension of tumor into the prostatic stroma and/or ducts had a 5-year survival rate of 36%, which equaled the survival of 49 stage pT3b,pN0 cancer patients in the same series. Surgical mortality for the entire population of 280 patients was 2.1% and there was no increase in mortality or morbidity among the node positive patients. Based on the findings of improved survival of stages pN1 and pT3b,N0 cancer patients compared to stage pN2 cancer patients, the tumor, nodes and metastasis classification offers more specific prognostic information than does a single designation of Jewett stage D disease. 
Acute hemorrhagic diarrhea and cardiovascular collapse in a young child owing to environmentally acquired cocaine. Acute crack cocaine intoxication has become a significant problem in both adolescent and adult patients. Recently, cases of cocaine toxicity in infants and toddlers have been described. We report a four-year-old child with acute hemorrhagic diarrhea and shock after intoxication by crack cocaine. Acute cocaine intoxication should be considered in the differential for hemorrhagic diarrhea and shock. The gastrointestinal decontamination following cocaine ingestion is discussed. 
Osteoid osteoma. Diagnosis, localization, and treatment. The preoperative insertion of a needle under computed tomographic scan, performed under local anesthesia, is a convenient and important new way to localize the nidus in osteoid osteoma. It necessitates less bone removal, which should reduce the postoperative fracture rate. It should also help to locate the lesion during surgery. Some clinical points and previously unstressed pathologic findings are also discussed. 
Attitudes of family practice residents about speech-language-hearing referrals. The "family doctor" has been identified as the professional most likely to be contacted by the general public with concerns about communication disorders; yet the family practice physician is unlikely to refer patients with communicative disorders to speech-language pathologists or audiologists for nonmedical evaluation and treatment. The purpose of this study was to determine attitudes of family practice residents about referral patterns for communication disorders using a survey format. Thirty-nine residents estimated that they had referred an average of 1.5 patients to a speech-language pathologist and 2.2 patients to an audiologist during a six-month interval. The findings indicated that these residents did not routinely refer patients to speech-language pathologists. When they did refer, a limited view of communication problems was used. 
An open-label trial of fluoxetine for obsessive-compulsive disorder in Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) occurs commonly in association with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (GTS) and can be a major source of disability. Fluoxetine, a new antidepressant, has been effective for psychiatric patients with OCD. We conducted an open-label trial of fluoxetine (20 to 40 mg/d) for 32 GTS patients with OCD. After 1 week of treatment, six patients (16%) withdrew from the trial due to perceived lack of benefit. Data were analyzed for 26 patients (13 children and 13 adults) who were treated by a neurologist for 3 to 8 months. Following treatment, there was a significant reduction in scores on the Leyton Obsessional Inventory for both the adult and child groups, and 81% of patients reported a subjective improvement in obsessions and compulsions. Since fluoxetine was well tolerated, our findings indicate that the drug may be an effective agent for the treatment of OCD in GTS patients. 
Instantaneous hyperemic flow-versus-pressure slope index. Microsphere validation of an alternative to measures of coronary reserve. BACKGROUND. The instantaneous hyperemic flow-versus-pressure (i-HFVP) slope index is a new method of assessing maximal coronary conductance and can be used as an alternative to conventional measures of coronary reserve. The i-HFVP slope index is determined by measuring the slope of the linear diastolic segment of the relation between instantaneous aortic pressure and hyperemic coronary flow. METHODS AND RESULTS. To validate the i-HFVP slope index as a measure of maximal coronary conductance, we compared this method with a microsphere-derived measurement of maximal coronary conductance (m-HFVP slope index) by determining the slope of the least-squares regression line of the data points for coronary flow during maximal hyperemia and four or five steady-state alterations of aortic pressure in 43 dogs (open-chest, anesthetized preparations) with or without coronary stenoses. The i-HFVP slope index demonstrated no dependence on heart rate, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, or mean aortic pressure and was highly reproducible within the groups studied (intraclass correlation coefficient, 0.86 for normal arteries, 0.87 for stenotic arteries, and 0.93 for combined groups; for all coefficients, p less than 0.001). The i-HFVP slope index was significantly decreased in the presence of a stenosis (10.3 +/- 3.9 for normal arteries versus 3.6 +/- 1.6 for stenotic arteries, p less than 0.001) as was the transmural m-HFVP slope index (8.9 +/- 4.6 for normal arteries versus 5.3 +/- 3.1, p less than 0.01). Of special importance, the i-HFVP slope index measurement for normal arteries was not significantly different from the transmural and subendocardial m-HFVP slope index measurements (10.3 +/- 3.9 versus 8.9 +/- 4.6 and 9.2 +/- 5.7, respectively). For stenotic arteries, the i-HFVP slope index measurement was also not significantly different from the transmural and subendocardial m-HFVP slope index measurements (3.6 +/- 1.6 versus 5.3 +/- 3.1 and 4.1 +/- 2.3, respectively). The i-HFVP slope index correlated best with subendocardial m-HFVP slope index measurements (correlation coefficient, 0.57; p less than 0.001). When the 95% confidence intervals for the transmural (or subendocardial) m-HFVP slope index in normal arteries were compared with the i-HFVP slope index values, the latter demonstrated a systematic trend to overestimate the m-HFVP slope index. In the presence of a stenosis, this effect was minimized, and the slope values were nearly identical. CONCLUSIONS. The i-HFVP slope index correlates most closely with subendocardial coronary conductance; the index is a hemodynamically independent measure of coronary reserve that is reproducible over a broad range of aortic pressures; and the methodology is applicable to an intact circulation in experimental preparations and may with future developments also prove useful in humans. 
Duplex Doppler sonography of the hepatic vein in tricuspid regurgitation. Patients with tricuspid regurgitation may present initially with vague abdominal symptoms and elevated liver enzymes. In the absence of diagnostic sonographic findings, patients may be subjected to an unnecessary invasive liver biopsy for an accurate diagnosis. We recently described the association of the pulsatile portal venous waveform on duplex Doppler sonography with tricuspid regurgitation in 15 patients. In this study I describe the changes in the hepatic venous waveform in these patients and compare the findings with the final diagnosis as determined by Doppler echocardiography (n = 14) or ultrafast CT (n = 1). All patients had clinical findings consistent with liver dysfunction and were referred for sonography to rule out diseases of the liver, biliary tree, or hepatic or portal veins. All patients had persistently dilated hepatic veins and inferior venae cavae. Twenty-four volunteers, 11 of whom had simultaneous ECG tracings, served as a control group. The main findings on the hepatic duplex sonogram in the disease group were a decrease in the size of the antegrade systolic wave with a systolic/diastolic flow velocity ratio of less than 0.6 (n = 4) or reversal of the systolic wave (n = 10). In all volunteers, systolic flow was antegrade and the ratio was more than 0.6. Two diagnoses were false positive and one was false negative. In some patients with sonographic signs of congestive heart failure, duplex Doppler sonography of the hepatic vein may be helpful in the diagnosis of one of the causes of liver dysfunction, tricuspid regurgitation. 
Dysplastic nevi. Occurrence in first- and second-degree relatives of patients with 'sporadic' dysplastic nevus syndrome. In this study a cross-sectional survey was undertaken among 156 living family members of 31 probands originally classified as having sporadic (histologically verified) dysplastic nevus syndrome (DNS). Seven (13.2%) of 53 parents had clinically recognizable DNS. Twenty-six (36.1%) of the 72 sibs showed dysplastic nevi. The diagnosis of DNS in family members was based on mainly clinical examination; in eight family members--those with only mild manifestation of DNS--a nevus was removed for histologic confirmation. After correction for pedigree size, we found that 60% of patients with "type A sporadic" DNS actually had one or more relatives with a DNS phenotype. Only 25% (8/30) of the probands were ultimately true sporadic cases without a DNS-affected first- or second-degree relative. In 15% (5/31) of the probands no conclusions concerning the type of DNS could be made because the pedigree size did not allow such a conclusion. We also found a higher prevalence of dysplastic nevi among the younger generation as compared with the older generation in our probands with DNS and their families as well as in a general population study of 400 individuals. This generation-dependent difference in expression of the DNS phenotype suggests that besides a genetic factor, other factors may play a role in the development of the characteristic phenotype. 
The difficult dilation: a method for dilation of severe esophageal strictures in children. Occasionally severe esophageal strictures will develop in children that will not allow the passage of standard Jackson or bougie dilators. These small strictures can be successfully treated using a standard intubating laryngoscope for visualization and Rush urethral Filiform dilators. 
Pyoderma gangrenosum with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma manifested as lower extremity ulcers--case reports. Patients with extensive lower extremity ulcerations initially thought to be vascular disease were subsequently proved to have pyoderma gangrenosum and malignant lymphoma. Both patients died of sepsis; one patient exhibited hypogammaglobulinemia involving immunoglobulins IgA, IgG, and IgE; in the second patient, a polyclonal excess involving IgA and IgE was present. 
Electrophysiological effects of left ventricular hypertrophy. Effect of calcium and potassium channel blockade. BACKGROUND. To define the arrhythmogenic effects of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in the intact heart, we carried out a detailed electrophysiological assessment in our previously validated feline aortic-banding model and then tested the effects of agents that blocked either the slow inward calcium or voltage-dependent potassium channel. METHODS AND RESULTS. We measured intraventricular and interventricular conduction times, excitability thresholds, ventricular effective refractory periods, and monophasic action potential duration at several sites in cats with LVH as well as in concurrent control (sham-operated) cats. In addition, we assessed vulnerability to ventricular arrhythmia using direct measurement of ventricular fibrillation (VF) thresholds and by standard techniques of programmed stimulation. Despite finding no difference between LVH and sham-operated cats in mean values for several electrophysiological parameters, the former group was significantly more vulnerable to VF, with more spontaneous VF and lower VF thresholds. Compared with the sham controls, LVH cats also had a greater dispersion of effective refractory period (35 +/- 11 versus 12 +/- 4 msec, p less than 0.01) and monophasic action potential duration at 90% repolarization (69 +/- 25 versus 39 +/- 7 msec, p less than 0.02). Verapamil had no significant effect on these electrophysiological parameters, nor did it affect VF threshold. However, risotilide, an inhibitor of the voltage-dependent potassium channel, narrowed dispersion of the effective refractory period and monophasic action potential duration concomitant with a marked reduction in ventricular vulnerability. CONCLUSIONS. LVH has a pronounced effect on dispersion of refractoriness and repolarization and renders the ventricle more vulnerable to fibrillation. Blockade of the voltage-dependent potassium channel, but not the slow inward calcium channel, narrows the dispersion of recovery of excitability and protects against VF. 
A comparative study of the cerebrovascular complications of cocaine: alkaloidal versus hydrochloride--a review. Cocaine, especially in its alkaloidal or "crack" form, has been increasingly associated with cerebrovascular disease. Before the crack epidemic, cocaine hydrochloride (HCl) was also implicated as a cause of stroke. However, less is known about the differences in stroke subtypes, age at stroke onset, or presence of underlying structural cerebrovascular disease with different forms of cocaine use. We compared 26 patients (previously reported) from our four institutions plus 16 cases reported in the literature of stroke associated with alkaloidal cocaine to 63 (57 reported in the literature and six not previously reported from our four institutions) cases of stroke associated with cocaine HCl. Ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes are equally likely after alkaloidal cocaine use, whereas cocaine HCl is more likely (approximately 80% of the time) to cause hemorrhagic stroke, with approximately half the intracranial hemorrhages occurring from ruptured cerebral saccular aneurysms or vascular malformations. The presence of an underlying cerebral aneurysm was more common among patients with cocaine HCl-associated strokes than alkaloidal cocaine-associated strokes. Cerebral infarction was significantly more common among the alkaloidal cocaine users than in all the cocaine HCl users, and this was also true when alkaloidal cocaine users were compared with parenteral cocaine HCl (intravenous and intramuscular) users. Only hemorrhagic stroke has been reported with intravenous cocaine HCl use. We conclude that the pathogenesis of cocaine-related stroke is heterogeneous, and depends, in part, on the form of cocaine used. 
Spinal intramedullary ependymal cyst. Report of three cases. Three cases of spinal intramedullary ependymal cyst, two at the thoracolumbar junction and one in the cervical spinal cord, are reported in women in their fifth to seventh decades. Neurological signs and symptoms were extremity dysesthesias, paresthesias, and weakness. Plain cervical and lumbothoracic x-ray films were normal for the patients' age. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated a rounded cystic intramedullary mass at the thoracolumbar junction in two cases and at C3-7 in one case. The signal intensity of the cyst contents approximated that of cerebrospinal fluid on T1- and T2-weighted images. Upon administration of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA), MR imaging showed no enhancement in the cyst wall or cavity. Myelotomy and cyst drainage were performed in each case, and the neurological status of each patient improved. The lining of the cyst was biopsied in one of the three patients undergoing surgery and was composed of a single layer of cuboidal cells supported by glial tissue. Periodic acid-Schiff staining of the tissue did not reveal a basement membrane. The findings in these cases suggest that the Gd-DTPA-enhanced MR imaging appearance of intramedullary spinal ependymal cyst is consistent and allows for accurate preoperative diagnosis with or without biopsy. 
In vivo detection of somatostatin receptors in patients with functionless pituitary adenomas by means of a radioiodinated analog of somatostatin ([123I]SDZ 204-090). The recent availability of a Tyr3-substituted octreotide (SDZ 204-090) for radioiodination has allowed somatostatin (SRIH) receptor binding to be studied in vivo, and receptor-positive tumors of different origins to be visualized with a gamma-camera. This prompted us to investigate whether this compound could be used for external imaging of functionless pituitary adenomas displaying SRIH receptors. Eight patients with functionless pituitary adenomas, three patients with acromegaly, and three with macroprolactinoma were injected iv with 123I-labeled Tyr3-octreotide and then scanned with a gamma-camera. Positive scans were obtained in the three acromegalics and in two of the eight patients with functionless pituitary tumors. The patients with macroprolactinoma had negative scans. The diagnosis of functionless pituitary adenomas was confirmed by light and electron microscopic examination as well as immunocytochemical studies. In vitro binding of [125I]Tyr11-SRIH to cell membranes was evaluated in four functionless and three GH-secreting adenomas removed from seven of the patients. All of the GH-secreting as well as one of the four functionless adenomas had high affinity SRIH-binding sites, without differences in number or affinity, whereas SRIH-binding sites were not detected in the others. Positive scans were observed only in patients bearing tumors with high affinity SRIH-binding sites. In conclusion, [123I]Tyr3-octreotide appears to be a promising tool for singling out, in vivo, patients with functionless pituitary tumors displaying SRIH receptors who might potentially benefit from octreotide treatment. 
The growing teratoma syndrome. A 26-year-old man presented with multiple pulmonary nodules and a left testicular mass. Combination chemotherapy for a malignant, mixed germ cell testicular tumor resulted in shrinkage of the pulmonary nodules and normalization of the tumor markers (beta-HCG, LDH and AFP). Subsequent surgical excision performed for enlargement of the pulmonary nodules revealed mature teratomas, diagnostic of the GTS. 
Transient myocardial ischemia during Holter registration before and after coronary angioplasty. PURPOSE: Revascularizing procedures like percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) aim at reducing the incidence and severity of myocardial ischemia. To evaluate this, continuous Holter ST analysis is a possible method. DESIGN: 41 patients (35 men, 6 women) with stable angina pectoris had continuous twenty-four-hour two-channel Holter registration (V5/aVF-analogous leads) recorded before and after PTCA. Transient myocardial ischemia (TM) was defined as 0.1 mV ST depression or more 80 msec after the J point for one minute or more. FINDINGS: PTCA was successful for 37 patients (90%). Eleven of these had a total of 53 episodes of TM, 36 (68%) before and 17 (32%) after PTCA (p less than 0.05). Fifteen episodes (28%) were symptomatic, and 38 (72%) were asymptomatic. Six patients had TM after successful PTCA, 5 of whom had one-vessel disease and a clinically uncomplicated course. One patient had multivessel disease, with only one vessel dilated. Follow-up angiograms for 9 of the 11 patients with TM revealed 5 restenoses. There was no significant correlation between TM after PTCA and subsequent restenosis (p greater than 0.05). IMPLICATIONS: TM is common in patients with stable angina pectoris. The incidence significantly decreases after successful PTCA, but TM is seen also with a clinically uncomplicated course. In multivessel disease this is consistent with incomplete revascularization, whereas in single-vessel disease the most likely cause is intermittent spasm or thrombosis. TM after successful PTCA does not seem to be a predictor of restenosis. 
The infrequent association of systemic lupus erythematosus and solid tumors. The authors describe the clinical course of two patients with long-standing, indolent systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) who developed, respectively, a breast carcinoma and a malignant melanoma 8 and 15 years after the diagnosis of lupus; both patients died with evidence of widespread, rapidly progressive metastatic disease at a time when the SLE was minimally active and did not require immunosuppressive therapy. The association of SLE and solid tumors in the same patient is reviewed. The frequency of this association appears to be low and the most often described tumors are of uterine and bladder origin. The clinical course of the solid malignancy in these patients is not always described in detail. Careful epidemiologic studies on the true incidence of solid tumors in patients with SLE are required to better understand this association. 
Sodium regulation in the affinity of renal alpha 2-adrenoceptors for epinephrine in Sabra salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats. Sodium ions markedly decreased in vitro renal alpha 2-adrenoceptor affinity for epinephrine in Sabra hypertensive (SBH) but not in normotensive (SBN) rats. Under these conditions, affinity of alpha 1-adrenoceptor for epinephrine was unchanged in SBH and SBN rats. If these data could be confirmed in vivo, the sodium ion, by acting as an inhibitor, could modify the effect of agonists on renal alpha 2-adrenoceptors in SBH rats. Conversely, the absence of sodium regulation in SBN rats might represent a genetically mediated change responsible for the resistance to the development of salt-induced hypertension. 
Collagenous colitis with involvement of terminal ileum. We present a case of collagenous colitis with evidence of terminal ileal involvement. The patient suffered from chronic watery diarrhea of three months' duration, and colonoscopy revealed a normal endoscopic appearance. Histologic examination of biopsies revealed a broad subepithelial band of collagen, with similar histologic findings in the terminal ileum. Additionally, the patient exhibited abnormalities of d-xylose and vitamin B12 absorption, although there were no clinical signs of malabsorption. Biopsy of the proximal small intestine was normal. The significance of these findings for the definition of the clinicopathologic entity of collagenous colitis and its pathogenesis are discussed. 
Realistic expectations for the patient with intermittent claudication. To determine the natural history of intermittent claudication 112 patients were followed for a minimum of 5 years and a median period of 82 months. Thirty-seven patients (33 per cent) died during the study period. Myocardial infarction (44 per cent) and cerebrovascular disease (28 per cent) were the most common causes of death. Overall mortality rate was 8, 23 and 40 per cent, at 2, 5 and 8 years respectively. Initial ankle-brachial pressure index (ABPI) correlated with subsequent death. With an initial ABPI less than 0.5 death occurred in 20, 50 and 69 per cent at 2, 5 and 7 years respectively, compared with 5, 16 and 24 per cent respectively for those with an initial ABPI greater than or equal to 0.5 (P less than 0.0001). Of the survivors only 21 per cent had worsening claudication and 13 per cent progressed to critical ischaemia. Arterial bypass for limb salvage was required in eight patients and four limbs were lost during the study period. ABPI identifies a subgroup of claudicants with an extremely high risk of death from coronary and/or cerebral pathology. In this subgroup an aggressive approach to the correction of atherosclerotic risk factors, rather than emphasis on the peripheral vascular problem alone, may improve survival. 
Management of the failed exstrophy closure. In the last 5 years we have seen 15 boys and 9 girls with failure of exstrophy closure, including 20 who had classical bladder exstrophy and 4 who had cloacal exstrophy. At the time of presentation 18 patients had undergone 1 closure while 6 patients had undergone 2 prior exstrophy closures. Closure was performed for complete bladder dehiscence in 16 cases and for significant bladder prolapse in 8. None of the patients underwent any form of osteotomy at the time of initial closure and in 19 closure was done within 72 hours of birth. Two patients underwent posterior iliac osteotomy elsewhere at the time of secondary closure. All patients referred to our institution underwent either posterior iliac osteotomy (8 patients) or anterior innominate osteotomy (16 patients). Epispadias repair along with reclosure of bladder exstrophy was done in 13 boys. The upper tract remained normal in all patients. There were no instances of failure in this group of reclosures. Eight patients have undergone subsequent bladder neck reconstruction of whom 7 are dry for 4 hours and 1 remains totally incontinent. Two patients have undergone simultaneous bladder neck reconstruction and augmentation cystoplasty, and they are dry on intermittent self-catheterization. The failed exstrophy closure presents a formidable dilemma. However, a secure reclosure can be achieved with careful surgical technique, a well performed osteotomy (even if previously performed) and concomitant epispadias repair for male subjects. 
Ascites and pleural effusions associated with endometriosis. We report a case of ascites and bilateral pleural effusions associated with an endometrioma in a 26-year-old woman of Chinese descent. She had a right salpingo-oophorectomy and partial omentectomy performed, and she received leuprolide acetate depot injections after the operation. We believe this is the first description of use of a GnRH agonist to treat this rare condition. 
Aortic sepsis: is there a role for in situ graft reconstruction? Conventional extraanatomic reconstruction for aortic sepsis is associated with a significant risk of operative death, as well as frequent late complications. We evaluated in situ aortic grafting in the treatment of primary or graft-related aortic infection. Eleven selected patients underwent in situ aortic graft reconstruction in the setting of mycotic aneurysm (n = 5), secondarily infected aortic aneurysm (n = 1), primary aortoenteric fistula (n = 1), and secondary aortoenteric fistula (n = 4). All patients survived: follow-up from 10 to 130 months reveals no evidence for graft thrombosis, pseudoaneurysm, new or recurrent aortoenteric fistula, or subsequent aortic operations in any patient. A literature review produced 110 cases of aortic sepsis managed by in situ aortic reconstruction during the last decade. Thirty-two patients (29%) either died in the operative period or suffered a lethal late complication associated with their aortic reconstruction. This mortality rate declined to 21% if patients undergoing incomplete removal of a contaminated graft were excluded, and to 19% with the addition of our 11 patients. Both our experience and that described in the literature suggest that, in properly-selected patients, in situ aortic graft replacement may be a rational treatment option for localized or circumscribed aortic sepsis. 
Postoperative hyperbilirubinemia after resection of thoracic esophageal cancer. The rate of occurrence of postoperative hyperbilirubinemia (PHB) following esophagectomy for thoracic esophageal cancer was 67%, 115/171 cases, which was significantly higher than those following total gastrectomy (28%, 40/144 cases) and colectomy (12%, 7/59 cases). Among the operative procedures, right thoracotomy with extensive lymphoadenectomy had the highest rate of PHB (87%), perhaps due to the longest operation time and the largest intraoperative blood loss. Preoperative risk factors were glucose intolerance, reduced lymphocyte count, and poor nutritional state. The change in bile acid composition, as well as the elevation of alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, indicated the presence of postoperative cholestasis which was relevant to total parenteral nutrition. The results suggest that the development of PHB was related to the extent of surgery and the use of parenteral nutrition. 
A comparative analysis of Giliberty, Bateman, and Universal femoral head prostheses. A long-term follow-up evaluation. This study compares four different types of bipolar hip prostheses used from 1977 to 1984. The devices studied were the Giliberty I and II hip prostheses, the Bateman I prosthesis, and the Universal Hip Replacement (UHR) prosthesis. The surgical indications for prosthetic hip replacement in all cases were displaced subcapital hip fractures (Garden Types 3 and 4). Postoperative evaluation included D'Aubigne's hip rating system and roentgenograms to assess prosthetic placement, dislocation, disassembly of the components, and the presence of inner and outer bearing motion of the prostheses. Results of the study revealed intact inner bearing motion in all of the devices investigated in the immediate postoperative period. The UHR prosthesis demonstrated a statistically significant lower incidence of dislocation and no incidence of prosthesis disassembly. This study demonstrates the superiority of the bipolar prosthesis when compared to published results of the so-called unipolar prosthesis and also suggests superiority of the design and function of the UHR prosthesis when compared to the Bateman I and Giliberty prostheses. Longer follow-up evaluation is needed to assess the effects of a functioning bipolar prosthesis on acetabular wear. 
Pancreatic lesions in the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. Common manifestations of the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, an autosomally dominant inherited cancer-prone disorder, include retinal angiomatosis, hemangioblastoma of the central nervous system, renal cysts, renal cancer, pheochromocytoma, and epididymal cystadenoma. Multiple cysts and microcystic (serous) cystadenomas of the pancreas have also been reported occasionally in patients afflicted with this syndrome. In the large Freiburg study of the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome composed of 66 affected individuals, pancreatic lesions were systematically studied. Fifty-five living individuals were examined by abdominal ultrasound imaging. Abnormal findings were confirmed by computed tomographic scan and/or magnetic resonance imaging. For an additional 11 decreased patients autopsy data were available. Cystic lesions of the pancreas were found in 10 patients (15%). One of these patients presented with multiple pancreatic cysts as the only manifestation of the syndrome. In one patient, a malignant islet-cell tumor was found at autopsy. Because multiple pancreatic cysts did not cause major clinical symptoms and because follow-up examinations over an average period of 5 years did not show significant progression of the lesions, it is concluded that these patients usually do not require surgical treatment. Abdominal ultrasound screening is recommended for patients at risk as a tool to identify potential von Hippel-Lindau syndrome gene carriers with pancreatic manifestations. In all patients with multiple pancreatic cysts, the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome should be included in the differential diagnosis. 
Preventive practices for adult cardiovascular disease in children. BACKGROUND. Differences between family practitioners and pediatricians regarding appropriate interventions for cardiovascular disease prevention in pediatric patients have been described by national surveys of physicians in the two specialties. the purpose of the study reported here was to determine whether similar differences existed in a more complete sample from a confined geographical area in which local standards of care might influence physicians practicing in the locale. METHODS. Members of the Southwestern Ohio Society of Family Physicians and the Cincinnati Pediatric Society were surveyed by questionnaire about their attitudes and practices concerning cardiovascular risk factors in children. The response rate was greater than 70% in each specialty group. RESULTS. Differences in the diagnosis and treatment of hypercholesterolemia were detected: (1) pediatricians screened patients at younger ages and used lower cutoff points for diagnosis (5.0 vs 5.5 mmol/L [192 vs 211 mg/dL]); and (2) family physicians were more likely to treat with medication (57% vs 5%), whereas pediatricians referred hypercholesterolemic patients to specialists more often (71% vs 19%). Both family physicians and pediatricians mislabeled blood pressures at the age-specific 90th percentile as normal (21% and 14%, respectively); this occurred more commonly with younger patients. Blood pressure was the risk factor most often measured, but smoking was the risk factor that received the most counseling by physicians in both specialties. CONCLUSIONS. Both family physicians and pediatricians reported feeling inadequately prepared to counsel lifestyle changes, and ranked obesity, smoking, and cholesterol as topics of greatest interest for continuing medical education courses. Physicians in both specialties did not routinely update family history of cardiovascular disease during well-child visits. 
Prevention of cerebral vasospasm by actinomycin D. The role of endothelin, a newly found vasoconstrictor peptide, is examined in the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the dog. Endothelin immunoreactivity was overexpressed in the endothelium of the vasospastic basilar artery. Because endothelin synthesis is regulated at the messenger ribonucleic acid transcription level, the effect of actinomycin D, a ribonucleic acid synthesis inhibitor, was studied as a means of preventing vasospasm. It was found that treatment with intravenous actinomycin D for 5 days beginning on the day of SAH completely inhibited the development of vasospasm. This novel experimental therapy may lead not only to the elucidation of the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm but also to the availability of a prophylactic adjuvant therapy for patients with SAH. 
Liver involvement in Alpers disease. Alpers disease consists of diffuse cerebral degeneration manifested as developmental delay, seizures, vomiting, and progressive neuromuscular deterioration, with liver disease and death. We report the clinical course of the liver disease, histologic progression of the hepatic lesions, and etiologic investigations in five patients (four girls, three kinships). All had grown and developed normally until seen at 6 to 36 months of age (mean 20 months), with vomiting (n = 5), progressive hypotonia (n = 3), or seizures (n = 2). All had been given anticonvulsants, including valproic acid in three. Liver disease was noted at a mean age of 35 months (range 9 to 67 months), with hepatomegaly (two patients), abnormal hepatic synthetic function (three) or transaminase values (three), and cirrhosis in one. Patients survived for a mean of 4.6 weeks (range 1 to 8 weeks) after the identification of liver disease; all died of hepatic failure. Results of evaluation for infectious and metabolic causes of liver disease and causes of degenerative neuromuscular disease were negative in all patients. Premortem liver biopsy specimens (n = 3) demonstrated an early lesion consisting of lobular disarray, microvesicular steatosis, periportal acute and chronic inflammation, and individual hepatocyte necrosis. Autopsy findings (n = 5) consisted of macrovesicular steatosis, massive hepatocyte dropout, and proliferation of bile ductular elements, with almost complete replacement of hepatocytes by proliferating bile ductular elements in two patients. Brain showed characteristic neuronal degeneration. We conclude that Alpers disease can be a cause of rapidly progressive liver failure in early childhood. Although the cause of this autosomal recessive disease is not known, it does not appear to be related to peroxisomal dysfunction. 
Cardiovascular and antiarrhythmic effects of esmolol in children. This prospective study evaluated the cardiovascular and antiarrhythmic effects of esmolol, an intravenous beta-blocker with an extremely short half-life. Twenty patients (aged 2 to 16 years) underwent diagnostic electrophysiologic studies at rest and during beta-blockade induced with esmolol. An initial dose of 600 micrograms/kg was infused for 2 minutes and followed by an infusion of 200 micrograms/kg per minute. The dosage was increased by 50 to 100 micrograms/kg per minute every 5 to 10 minutes until a reduction of greater than 10% in either heart rate or mean blood pressure was seen. The dosage required to achieve beta-blockade ranged from 300 to 1000 micrograms/kg per minute (mean 550 micrograms/kg per minute). Electrophysiologic effects included a decrease in the rate of sinoatrial node discharge and delay in conduction through the atrioventricular node. There was no effect on His-Purkinje conduction. Atrial and ventricular effective refractory periods were unchanged. In six patients with supraventricular tachycardia, esmolol prevented induction of tachycardia in four and slowed the rate of the tachycardia in two. In four patients with ventricular tachycardia, clinical findings were improved in three and unchanged in one. Heart rate and blood pressure returned to near baseline values 10 minutes after the esmolol infusion was stopped. Adverse ventricular electrophysiologic effects were observed in two patients with biopsy evidence of myocarditis. No other adverse effects were seen. We conclude that the effects of esmolol in children are similar to those of other beta-blockers and that it is useful in the evaluation and management of pediatric tachyarrhythmias. The weight-adjusted dosage required to induce beta-blockade in children is larger than the adult dosage, and the effects of esmolol dissipate rapidly. 
Low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin) vs dextran 70. The prevention of postoperative deep vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. The Danish Enoxaparin Study Group. A prospective randomized study compared the thromboprophylactic efficacy and safety of a low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), enoxaparin (40.6 mg subcutaneously once daily), with a standard regimen of dextran 70 in patients undergoing elective total hip replacement. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by bilateral ascending phlebography 7 to 11 days after operation. Two hundred forty-six patients were included and 219 were eligible for analysis. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed in seven of 108 patients in the LMWH group and in 24 of 111 patients in the dextran group. Clinical symptoms of pulmonary embolism did not develop in any patients during the study. In the postoperative period, patients receiving LMWH had a lower blood loss in drains and required fewer blood transfusions than patients receiving dextran, although no significant differences were noted between the groups with respect to the total number of blood transfusions required. Bleeding events and adverse events did not differ between the groups. None of the patients died in hospital during the study. One patient in the LMWH group died at home 15 days after the operation. Three patients receiving dextran had development of symptomatic deep vein thrombosis after hospital discharge. In conclusion, enoxaparin was a more effective thromboprophylactic than a standard regimen of dextran in patients undergoing total hip replacement. The two regimens were equally safe under the clinical conditions. 
Radical hysterectomy with lymphadenectomy for treatment of early stage cervical cancer: clinical experience of 278 cases. This study includes 278 cases of stage I and II cervical cancer subjected to radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy. The clinical experience of 278 cases is reviewed. Of these cases, 215 were in stage I, and 63 were in stage II. Intraoperative complications occurred at a rate of 9.7% and involved injuries to the great vessels, lower urinary tract, nerves, and rectum. Operative mortality was found to be 0.3%. Postoperative complications were observed in 20.1% of patients. Fistulae were observed in 8 (2.8%) patients. The overall survival rate was 83.8%. The 5-year survival rates for stages IA, IB, IIA, and IIB were 100.0%, 87.9%, 71.0%, and 64.0%, respectively. Pelvic lymph node metastases varied from 0% for stage IA to 40.0% for stage IIB and paraaortic involvement varied from 0% for stage IA to 50.0% for stage IIB. Radical surgery seems to be the treatment of choice for patients with early invasive cervical cancer. 
Children with epilepsy: the effect of seizures, syndromes, and etiological factors on cognitive functioning. Overall, children with epilepsy have poorer concentration and mental processing and are less alert than age-matched controls. The relationship between cognitive functioning and epilepsy is complex, however, with widely differing degrees of intellectual impairment--ranging from minimal to severe and progressive--related to diverse types of epileptic seizures, syndromes, and etiological factors. Prolonged and frequently repeated seizures are typically associated with more severe effects on cognitive functioning, particularly if epilepsy is symptomatic, i.e., secondary to a demonstrable brain lesion. A combination of such factors may contribute to the mental deterioration seen in many children suffering from severe epilepsy. 
The Western Washington Myocardial Infarction Registry and Emergency Department Tissue Plasminogen Activator Treatment Trial. This study comprised a registry and an emergency department treatment trial using recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. During 1 year, 1,028 patients with documented acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were evaluated for eligibility for thrombolytic therapy. Of these, 221 patients (22%) were eligible for thrombolytic therapy under currently accepted criteria, 175 (79%) of them were correctly identified by emergency department physicians for thrombolytic therapy, and 160 were enrolled in the trial. Only 3 patients (2%) enrolled by emergency department physicians did not subsequently evolve documented AMI. In all, 807 patients (78%) were ineligible for thrombolytic therapy: 335 (33%) because of greater than or equal to 1 contraindications, 364 (36%) because of nondiagnostic electrocardiograms on presentation, and 105 (10%) because of age greater than 75 years, or greater than 6 hours of chest pain at presentation, or both. Mortality in treated patients at 14 days was 5.6%, and survival at 1 year was 92%. The mean time from hospital arrival to thrombolytic treatment was 55 +/- 27 minutes. Initial management of AMI with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in the emergency department provided rapid and safe treatment comparable to that reported in trials that started treatment in the coronary care unit. The proportions of eligible patients could be increased from 1 in 5 to 1 in 3, if patients currently excluded only because of age greater than 75 years or because of greater than 6 hours of chest pain were offered treatment. 
Somatosensory and magnetic evoked potentials in a postoperative paraparetic patient: case report. Somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) testing is increasingly being used to test for spinal cord injuries and to monitor spinal surgery to reduce the risk of paraplegia. It is a sensory test, but it is assumed that any process severe enough to affect the motor tracts will also affect the sensory tracts and, therefore, be identified. Increasingly, however, isolated motor-tract involvement has been reported. A new technique, magnetic coil stimulation of the cortex, directly monitors the motor tracts. We report a case where the SSEP was normal although the magnetic motor-evoked potential was abnormal, supporting the hypothesis that direct testing of motor tracts may be advantageous. 
Partial agenesis of the anterior corpus callosum: correlation between appearance, imaging, and neuropathology. Two patients with partial (semilobar) holotelencephaly are reported with apparent partial agenesis of the corpora callosa. These patients are of interest because they appear to possess the posterior portion of the corpus callosum but not its anterior component. Because the corpus callosum develops in the commissural plate rostrally and is elaborated in a rostral-caudal gradient, this apparent lack of the rostral component is embryologically puzzling. The neuropathologic studies of 1 patient resolved the apparent discrepancy between magnetic resonance imaging and embryology of the corpus callosum. With these data, we addressed the embryologic factors that may explain this malformation. 
Nimodipine and bradycardia in acute stroke--drug or disease? A patient who had suffered an acute ischemic stroke experienced bradycardia while being treated with nimodipine 80 mg tid. This became evident after the initiation of nimodipine and progressed, leading to the drug being discontinued after three days of therapy. The bradycardia resolved shortly after the treatment was terminated and normal heart rate was maintained throughout 23 days of hospitalization and in subsequent outpatient follow-up. Although nimodipine-induced bradycardia is possible, hemispheric cerebral infarction may also cause transient bradyarrhythmias in the acute stroke period. There is a need to monitor the heart rate and rhythm of all acute stroke patients, especially those receiving nimodipine. 
Survival and management considerations in postirradiation osteosarcoma and Paget's osteosarcoma. Postirradiation and Paget's osteosarcomas are high-grade malignancies. The five-year survival was only 10% in recent experience at the author's institution. Progressive pain is an important clinical feature in both conditions. Careful roentgenographic studies demonstrate cortical destruction and a soft-tissue mass in virtually all patients. Metastasis was present in 25% of both groups of patients at presentation. In contrast to previous series, more than 80% of the patients with postirradiation osteosarcoma had had irradiation for malignant entities and more than 70% had been treated with modern radiotherapy regimens (cobalt-60 or linear accelerator). Twice as many patients with postirradiation osteosarcoma were evaluated and treated in the 1980s than in the previous decade. The initial indication for irradiation often was carcinoma of the breast, uterus, or cervix, or lymphoma. Two-thirds of the patients had progressive disease that was not controllable within six months after diagnosis. Early detection may be the only effective means of improving survival with postirradiation or Paget's osteosarcoma. These patients require lifelong follow-up evaluations. 
Rupture of the internal elastic lamina and vascular fragility in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. We studied a possible relation between stroke and an enhanced susceptibility to rupture of the arterial internal elastic lamina by comparing stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with spontaneously hypertensive rats, which have a very low incidence of stroke. We quantified interruptions in the internal elastic lamina in certain arteries and studied the effect of beta-aminopropionitrile, an inhibitor of cross-link formation in collagen and elastic fibers, on rupture of the internal elastic lamina and on mortality in these two substrains. To eliminate any influence of higher blood pressure in the stroke-prone rats on the parameters studied, we used antihypertensive treatment to obtain equivalent blood pressures in the two substrains. Results showed that stroke sensitivity was associated with an enhanced early spontaneous rupture of the internal elastic lamina in the caudal artery, an increased susceptibility to beta-aminopropionitrile-induced rupture of the internal elastic lamina, and earlier mortality, mainly from aortic rupture, under beta-aminopropionitrile treatment. These findings suggest that stroke-prone rats have an enhanced minor connective tissue defect that is expressed by rupture of the internal elastic lamina and may be related, at least in part, to their greater vascular fragility and increased susceptibility to stroke. 
Obstetric accidents: the patient's perspective. Cases from the files of Action for Victims of Medical Accidents which had resulted in stillbirth, perinatal or neonatal death and long term mental or physical handicap were reviewed. In 41 cases there was both a detailed letter from the parents and an independent review by a senior obstetrician. The reviewer's main criticisms were of inadequate fetal heart monitoring, lack of involvement of senior staff and inadequate records. The fetal heart trace was missing in 7 cases and over half of the remaining 34 traces available were misinterpreted or not acted on. In 17 cases junior doctors failed to recognize fetal distress and managed a delivery that they did not have the experience to deal with. In a further 6 cases, senior staff were called but did not come. Records were criticized for being incomplete, illegible or missing. In a few cases unjustified alterations appeared to have been made. Women reported that on some occasions staff ignored their worries, were unsympathetic and gave too little information. Some parents also experienced considerable difficulty in obtaining a clear explanation of the nature and cause of their child's condition. 
Effect of dietary menhaden oil on normal growth and development and on ameliorating mucosal injury in rats. We evaluated the effects of menhaden oil on growth and development of the small intestinal mucosa in growing rats and on the progression and resolution of methotrexate-induced mucosal injury in the rats. One study compared effects of diets containing 10% safflower oil(SO), 9% SO and 1% menhaden oil (MO), 10% MO, or 9% MO and 1% SO on mucosal growth and development for 125 d. In another study, animals fed the 10% MO or the 10% SO diet for 5 wk were subjected to subcutaneous methotrexate injections for 3 consecutive days. Feeding rats a diet containing large amounts of menhaden oil resulted in lower prostaglandin E2 and leukotriene B4 synthesis and lower sucrase activities. Indicators of mucosal mass after methotrexate-induced injury were significantly improved in both the jejunum and ileum at 3 and 10 d after methotrexate administration. Our data suggest that dietary menhaden oil stimulates mucosal regeneration after methotrexate-induced injury. 
Surgical collars: a survey of their prescription and use. We report the results of a questionnaire survey of 124 orthopaedic, rheumatology, medical and accident and emergency outpatients prescribed a surgical collar during a 3-month period. Of these, 99 (80%) returned the questionnaire. Instructions received about when to wear the collar differed widely, especially between specialties. Most patients (76%) found benefit in wearing the collar. Pain was the symptom helped most (78%) whilst dizziness was helped least (40%). Problems with the collars were common, many being too hot (69%) and uncomfortable (48%). A third had difficulty putting the collar on. Despite these problems, compliance was good with 19 patients discontinuing collars for reasons other than recovery or medical advice. We believe this study highlights further areas for research and stimulates a re-evaluation of collar usage. 
Usefulness of severity of myocardial ischemia on exercise testing in predicting the severity of myocardial ischemia during daily activities. To determine the relation between myocardial ischemic indexes on exercise testing and on ambulatory Holter recording, 60 patients with stable coronary artery disease who exhibited an ischemic response to both testing procedures were studied. All patients performed a Bruce protocol exercise test and underwent 24-hour Holter recording within 2 weeks without antianginal medications. Mean exercise duration was 7.4 +/- 2.8 minutes, mean heart rate at 1-mm ST depression was 118 +/- 20 beats/min and mean maximal ST depression during exercise was 2.2 +/- 1 mm. During Holter recording the average number of ischemic episodes was 4.7 +/- 2.6 per patient, mean duration of daily ischemia was 62 +/- 54 minutes, mean maximal ST depression was 3.2 +/- 1.3 mm and average heart rate at 1-mm ST depression was 93 +/- 17 beats/min. Overall, the correlations between ischemic indexes on both testing procedures were very weak (mean r2 = 0.054). The only exercise variable that had a significant correlation (p less than 0.05) with all Holter variables was heart rate at 1-mm ST depression, yet it correlated very weakly (0.064 less than or equal to r2 less than or equal to 0.125) with most Holter covariates and had a better correlation (r2 = 0.256) only with average heart rate at 1-mm ST depression during Holter. Thus, ischemic indexes on exercise testing cannot accurately predict ischemic indexes on ambulatory Holter recording in patients with stable coronary artery disease who exhibit ischemic changes on both tests. 
A molecular genetic study of factor XI deficiency. Factor XI deficiency is a rare bleeding diathesis found predominantly in Ashkenazi Jewish kindreds. A recent study of six Jewish patients identified three distinct mutations (Types I, II, and III) in the factor XI gene that were sufficient to fully define the genotypes of the patients. We have investigated 63 patients with factor XI deficiency and find overall allele frequencies of 44% for the type II mutation, 31% for the type III mutation, and 0% for the type I mutation. Therefore, 25% of the mutant factor XI alleles in our sample remain undefined. However, the distribution of mutant alleles is significantly different between Jewish and non-Jewish populations with hitherto undefined mutations accounting for 84% of the disease alleles in non-Jewish patients. Plasma factor XI:C levels were found to differ significantly between different homozygous and compound heterozygous genotypes and the inheritance of the II/III genotype was found to carry an increased risk of the most severe bleeding tendency. 
Surgical treatment and prevention of vasculopathic impotence in conjunction with revascularisation of the lower extremities in Leriche's syndrome. The results are presented of combined revascularization of the lower extremities and the penis in 29 patients with Leriche's syndrome. This was effected by placing an autogenous venous shunt between the branch of a prosthesis or the common femoral artery and one of the dorsal arteries of the penis. Preoperatively lost sexual function was restored in 6 patients, while in 16 the sexual function was maintained at the preoperative level or improved in the late postoperative period. A comparison of the results obtained with the sexual performance of patients who had undergone bifurcated aortofemoral shunting only, prompted the conclusion that this surgical procedure was effective in the prevention and treatment of vasculopathic impotence in Leriche's syndrome. 
Flecainide in the treatment of fetal tachycardias. Fourteen mothers were treated with flecainide for fetal atrial tachycardias associated with intrauterine cardiac failure. Twelve of the 14 fetuses responded by conversion to sinus rhythm. One of the 12 fetuses subsequently died in utero. The remaining fetuses suffered no morbidity and were alive and well 3 months to 2 years after delivery. The two fetuses in whom atrial tachycardia did not convert with flecainide were successfully treated with digoxin. These results compare favourably with previous forms of antiarrhythmic treatment. After recent reports of the side effects of flecainide treatment, however, it has been advised that this drug should be confined to high risk patients and those with life threatening arrhythmias. The use of flecainide for fetal arrhythmias should be limited to patients with severe fetal hydrops and supraventricular tachycardias. It should not be the first drug of choice in atrial flutter. 
Life-sustaining therapy. A model for appropriate use New strategies are needed to curb the proliferation of life-sustaining therapies that rarely benefit patients. We propose a model for appropriate use of such therapies that incorporates effectiveness, utility, and marginal costs. If a therapy is rarely effective and rarely desirable, it is considered medically inappropriate. If the marginal cost-effectiveness ratio is inordinately high, it is considered economically inappropriate. If a therapy is either medically or economically inappropriate, it should not be automatically offered. The model provides an operational definition of futility and is illustrated with an analysis of out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation for chronically ill older people. Advance directives, explicit health care rationing, and defining futile therapy based on survival predictions are alternatives to the appropriate care model, but are insufficient strategies to solve the problem of inappropriate life-sustaining care. 
Serial antiarrhythmic drug treatment to maintain sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion for chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. The sequential use of different types of antiarrhythmic drugs may improve arrhythmia prognosis in chronic atrial fibrillation or flutter after successful electrical cardioversion. The rationale for serial treatment is that the arrhythmogenic mechanism may vary between patients, leading to different responses to 1 specific drug. To investigate this issue prospectively, 127 patients having chronic fibrillation or flutter exclusively, underwent serial drug treatment with flecainide (stage I) followed by sotalol or, if contraindicated, quinidine (stage II) and eventually amiodarone (stage III). Stages II and III were entered after electrical recardioversion for a recurrence during stages I or II, respectively. Calculated on an actuarial basis, the 2-year cumulative percentage of patients free of the arrhythmia increased from 31% after stage I to 63% at the end of serial treatment. To reach this result, a mean of 1.8 +/- 0.8 cardioversions per patient were needed, with 53 patients progressing to stage II and 34 to stage III. Sixteen patients stopped serial treatment prematurely and 15 patients were considered to have intractable atrial fibrillation at the end of stage III. Incidence of proarrhythmia was low. Multivariate analysis disclosed that an older age, in combination with a large number of previous episodes of arrhythmia, a long previous duration of arrhythmia and presence of mitral valve disease, were predictive for medical refractoriness during serial treatment. It is concluded that serial treatment may improve arrhythmia prognosis in atrial fibrillation or flutter, with an acceptable incidence of proarrhythmic events. 
Binding of kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) isolectins to differentiated human colon carcinoma Caco-2 cells and their effect on cellular metabolism. The binding of Phaseolus vulgaris (PHA) isolectins L4 and E4 to the brush border membrane of differentiated Caco-2 cells was studied and the impact on cellular metabolism and microvilli was assessed. Computer analysis of the data based on binding experiments with peroxidase conjugated isolectins gave mean (SD) values for maximal binding of 2540 (151).10(-9) M for PHA-L4 and 2104 (140).10(-9) M for PHA-E4 per mg of brush border membrane protein. The dissociation constants for L4 and E4 binding were 4.3 (1.4).10(-6) M and 1.1 (0.8).10(-6) M, respectively. Incubation of differentiated Caco-2 cells for 30 minutes with ferritin conjugated PHA isolectins showed that, as indicated by the number of ferritin particles, PHA-E4 bound to the microvilli to a greater extent than PHA-L4. Ferritin particles were also localised intracellularly over endocytotic invaginations and vesicles. After incubation for 48 hours with PHA-L4 or PHA-E4, the relative incorporation of precursors for DNA, RNA, and (glyco)protein synthesis into the trichloroacetic acid insoluble fraction of the Caco-2 cells was determined. Both isolectins stimulated the incorporation of thymidine and glucosamine, but neither PHA-L4 nor PHA-E4 were able to influence the incorporation of uridine. With respect to fucose, methionine, and N-acetyl mannosamine, the stimulatory effect remained confined to PHA-E4. Since PHA-L4 and PHA-E4 were tested at the same concentrations, PHA-E4 is more effective than PHA-L4. The changes in the uptake of radioactive precursors were lost after heat inactivation of PHA-E4. Compared with control and PHA-L4 incubated Caco-2 cells, the microvilli of PHA-E4 incubated cells were shortened significantly (p less than 0.01). 
Linear lupus erythematosus profundus in a child. A 9-year-old Japanese boy had a 6-year history of a linear eruption of the left leg. It was characterized histopathologically by an intense lymphocytic panniculitis, perivascular and periappendageal infiltrates of lymphocytes, and vacuolization of the basal cell layer. This case represents a clinical presentation of linear lupus erythematosus profundus not previously reported. 
Transureteroureterostomy with cutaneous ureterostomy: a 25-year experience. We reviewed 67 patients who underwent transureteroureterostomy with cutaneous ureterostomy for benign (32) and malignant (35) disease in regard to the indications for and complications of the procedure. The most common complications included urine leakage at the ureteroureterostomy, stomal stenosis and calculus formation. Renal function improved or remained stable in 75% of the patients. Transureteroureterostomy with cutaneous ureterostomy is a viable alternative diversion technique in a select group of patients. 
Unruptured intracranial aneurysms: seizures and antiepileptic drug treatment following surgery. Twenty-one patients operated on for unruptured intracranial aneurysms were studied retrospectively in order to identify the incidence of postoperative seizures, factors predictive of seizures, and the response to discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs. The overall risk of postoperative seizures in initially seizure-free patients was 15.7%. Although seizures were not uncommon, antiepileptic drugs were successfully tapered in most of the patients before 12 months. 
Fatigue and depression in brain-injured patients correlated with quadriceps strength and endurance. Many brain-injured (BI) patients complain of persistent fatigue that may alter their lifestyles. In order to assess muscular strength and endurance after brain injury, 22 BI men, greater than 9 months postinjury and aged 20 to 51 years, were separated into two groups based on a complaint of fatigue (fatigue n = 13, nonfatigue n = 9); each performed one maximal isometric knee extension at 60 degrees and 20 maximal isokinetic contractions at 20 rpm using a Cybex II dynamometer. A third group of age-matched, able-bodied men (n = 10) were used as controls. A battery of tests assessing the presence of fatigue (using a symptom checklist and two rating scales), depression, anxiety, and health status were given at the time of isokinetic/isometric testing. The mean fatigue rating, a subjective score, for the fatigue group of BI subjects was significantly worse than the other groups (p less than .01). There was a positive correlation between clinically significant Zung depression scores and fatigue rating (r = .46) and between Zung anxiety scores and fatigue rating. The depression scores for those who complained of fatigue were significantly higher than the other groups (p less than .005). Maximal isometric contractions were no different among the three groups. The mean maximal isokinetic torque during the 20 repetitions was greater in controls than in the BI groups, but did not reach statistical significance (p less than .25). There were no significant declines in isokinetic torque in the 20 repetitions for any of the groups, and the fatigue index was nearly equal for all three groups. 
Repairs of the rotator cuff. Correlation of functional results with integrity of the cuff. We evaluated the results of 105 operative repairs of tears of the rotator cuff of the shoulder in eighty-nine patients at an average of five years postoperatively. We correlated the functional result with the integrity of the cuff, as determined by ultrasonography. Eighty per cent of the repairs of a tear involving only the supraspinatus tendon were intact at the time of the most recent follow-up, while more than 50 per cent of the repairs of a tear involving more than the supraspinatus tendon had a recurrent defect. Older patients and patients in whom a larger tear had been repaired had a greater prevalence of recurrent defects. At the time of the most recent follow-up, most of the patients were more comfortable and were satisfied with the result of the repair, even when they had sonographic evidence of a recurrent defect. The shoulders in which the repaired cuff was intact at the time of follow-up had better function during activities of daily living and a better range of active flexion (129 +/- 20 degrees compared with 71 +/- 41 degrees) compared with the shoulders that had a large recurrent defect. Similar correlations were noted for the range of active external and internal rotation and for strength of flexion, abduction, and internal rotation. In the shoulders in which the cuff was not intact, the degree of functional loss was related to the size of the recurrent defect. 
Cocaine and chest pain: clinical features and outcome of patients hospitalized to rule out myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical features, electrocardiographic findings, and hospital course in patients admitted with acute chest pain temporally related to cocaine use. DESIGN: Retrospective data analysis. SETTING: A 485-bed county hospital. PATIENTS: One hundred and one consecutive patients with cocaine-related chest pain admitted to the hospital to rule out myocardial infarction. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The quality of the chest pain frequently suggested myocardial ischemia. Dyspnea was common (56%). The onset of chest pain occurred during cocaine use in 21% of patients, within 1 hour of use in 37%, and after 1 hour of use in 42%. Admission electrocardiographic findings were interpreted as normal in 32% of patients; as acute myocardial injury in 8%; as early repolarization variant in 32%; as left ventricular hypertrophy in 16%; and as "other" in 12%. Forty-three percent of patients had ST-segment elevation meeting the electrocardiographic criteria for use of thrombolytic therapy, but such elevation was usually due to the early repolarization variant. The initial total creatine kinase was elevated more than 3.3 mu kat/L (200 U/L) in 43% of patients, and an elevated total creatine kinase was recorded at some time during the hospital course in 47% of patients. The creatine kinase MB fraction was less than 0.02 in all patients. Myocardial infarction was ruled out in all patients. No patient experienced in-hospital cardiovascular complications. CONCLUSION: The quality of acute chest pain related to cocaine use is indistinguishable from that experienced in acute myocardial ischemia. Abnormal or normal variant electrocardiographic findings are common in patients with chest pain related to cocaine use, but nevertheless the incidence of acute myocardial infarction is low. The ST-segment and T-wave changes can mimic acute myocardial injury and are most likely normal findings in young black men that can be readily recognized in the emergency department. Most of these patients do not require admission to an intensive care unit. 
Leiomyosarcoma of renal vein. Leiomyosarcomas arising from the renal vein are rare tumors: only 13 cases are found in the literature. We report a case in a sixty-one-year-old woman who presented with back pain and hematuria. She underwent resection of the tumor and an ipsilateral nephrectomy. The tumor recurred locally, and the patient died thirty months after diagnosis. Review of the cases reported in the literature reveals the aggressive nature of these tumors and the need for a combined therapeutic approach. 
Administration of interleukin-2 (IL-2) results in increased plasma concentrations of IL-5 and eosinophilia in patients with cancer. Peripheral eosinophilia is almost invariably observed during the course of interleukin-2 (IL-2) therapy and is frequently accompanied by the development of a capillary leak syndrome characterized by edema, weight gain, and oliguria. We studied five patients with advanced malignancy treated with IL-2. Eosinophilia was not present initially but developed in all patients late in the course of therapy, with counts ranging from 2,328/mm3 to 15,958/mm3. In all patients, there was a temporal relationship between the infusion of IL-2 and the appearance of elevated plasma concentrations of IL-5, a growth factor for eosinophils. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor was not detectable in plasma. IL-4 and gamma-interferon plasma levels were variably elevated. Plasma concentrations of major basic protein, a toxic eosinophil granule protein, began increasing before eosinophil counts increased. By the time of the third IL-2 infusion, high concentrations of major basic protein were present in all five patients (up to 5,600 ng/mL) and skin biopsies showed major basic protein deposition in the dermis. Four patients developed significant capillary leak syndrome and all of these patients showed markedly elevated major basic protein levels. The lowest peak plasma concentration of major basic protein (1,751 ng/mL) was observed in the one patient who did not develop edema and weight gain. These results suggest that IL-2 induces IL-5 leading to marked peripheral eosinophilia and extravascular eosinophil degranulation. The release of toxic eosinophil products at extravascular sites and in the circulation may contribute to the pathogenesis of the capillary leak syndrome complicating IL-2 therapy. 
Dramatic response of follicular thyroid carcinoma with superior vena cava syndrome and tracheal obstruction to external-beam radiotherapy. We report a patient with follicular thyroid carcinoma progressing to superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome and tracheal obstruction despite multiple doses of radioactive iodine therapy but subsequently responding dramatically to external-beam radiotherapy (RT). Although RT is not considered to be the treatment of choice for follicular carcinoma, RT in our patient produced unequivocal improvement of SVC syndrome and tracheal obstruction. 
Radiation associated malignant pleural mesothelioma. Malignant pleural mesothelioma of epithelial type developed in a 24 year old woman, 20 years after radiotherapy for Hodgkin's disease. This case and a review of published cases indicate that radiation may induce malignant mesothelioma. 
The muscle flap in the treatment of chronic lower extremity osteomyelitis: results in patients over 5 years after treatment. Preliminary reports have indicated that debridement of the bony sequestrum followed by muscle-flap coverage allows successful treatment of chronic osteomyelitis. To determine the long-term effectiveness of this procedure, 34 consecutive patients with chronic osteomyelitis of the distal lower extremity treated with debridement, a 10- to 14-day course of culture-specific antibiotics, and immediate muscle-flap coverage were evaluated. Patients were treated from 1979 through 1984, and long-term (greater than 5 years) follow-up was available for 27 (79 percent). Twenty-three (85 percent) of these patients underwent microvascular muscle transplantation (gracilis or latissimus dorsi), and four underwent local muscle flaps (gastrocnemius or soleus) for immediate wound coverage. Twenty-four patients (89 percent) healed and were without recurrence over long-term (greater than 5 years, mean 7.4 years) follow-up. Of the three with recurrence, two were cured (greater than 5 years follow-up) after additional muscle-flap procedures. Thus the overall success rate was 96 percent, with a minimum 5-year follow-up. Guidelines for muscle-flap selection and treatment techniques in current use are presented. Debridement and immediate muscle-flap coverage provide effective, single-stage treatment of chronic osteomyelitic wounds and allow antibiotics to be restricted to short-term use. Furthermore, muscle flaps covered with skin grafts provide durable coverage while allowing subsequent ancillary procedures (i.e., bone grafts) to be performed under the flaps. 
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome: findings on chest radiographs in 18 patients. Findings on chest radiographs of 18 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome were compared and correlated with peak eosinophil counts. Nine patients had normal chest radiographs. Of the nine patients with abnormal chest radiographs, three had fine, irregular linear opacities in the lungs (the opacities were most noticeable at the bases); three had similar irregular linear opacities and pleural effusions; and three had pleural effusions and confluent opacities. One patient demonstrated an enlarged heart; no pulmonary edema was seen in this patient or in any others. Although the mean recorded eosinophil cell counts were higher in those patients with abnormal chest radiographs (6,340 vs 5,454/mm3 [6.3 vs 5.4 x 10(9)/L]), the difference was not statistically significant. 
gamma-Hydroxybutyrate: a health-food product producing coma and seizurelike activity. Sixteen cases of adverse effects due to a new health-food product, gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB), were reported to the San Francisco Bay Area Regional Poison Control Center in the 5-month period from June to October 1990. Cases have also been reported in eight other states. Adverse effects included coma (four patients) and tonic-clonic seizurelike activity (two patients). Doses ranged from 1/4 teaspoon to 4 tablespoons. Acute symptoms resolved within 7 hours. GHB was investigated as an anesthetic agent during the 1960s until seizures and lack of analgesia precluded its use. It was recently introduced in the health-food market as a food supplement for body builders with claims of anabolic effects by stimulating growth hormone release. GHB remains under investigational new drug status with the Food and Drug Administration and is illegal for over the counter sale. The Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services has prohibited further sale of this product in California as have health departments in Florida and South Carolina; however, new cases continue to be reported. Health professionals should be aware of the potential health hazards of GHB. 
Raynaud's phenomenon. An update. The pathogenesis of primary Raynaud's phenomenon remains an enigma. Most evidence favors a local abnormality in the digital arteries as opposed to an increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system. The local fault may involve the alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, which are most important in reflex sympathetic vasoconstriction. Cooling blood vessels increase the sensitivity of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, increased levels of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors are present in primary Raynaud's disease, and patients show an increased sensitivity to alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonists on finger blood flow. Serotonin has also been implicated, but the evidence is not compelling. In secondary Raynaud's phenomenon, vasospastic attacks can often be explained by a low arterial distending pressure, a thickened vessel wall, or absence of beta-adrenergic receptor activity. Diagnosis of primary Raynaud's disease relies on a typical history and normal physical examination, laboratory studies, and nailfold capillaroscopy. Finger systolic blood pressures during local cooling with ischemia may be helpful to document vasospastic attacks but does not distinguish primary from secondary Raynaud's phenomenon. The treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon is usually conservative. Pavlovian conditioning or biofeedback may be beneficial. When drug therapy is necessary, the calcium channel entry blocker nifedipine or sympatholytic agents have been shown to decrease the frequency and duration of vasospastic attacks in about two thirds of patients, although subjective improvement does not usually correlate with objective testing. Direct-acting vasodilators have not been shown to be of definite benefit. New therapies include prostaglandins, captopril, and the serotonergic antagonist ketanserin. Surgical sympathectomy has not been beneficial. 
Stereographic and stereometric study of sebaceous gland hyperplasia in rabbit pinnas induced by topically applied substances. Tetradecane (TD), testosterone (TS), and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) were separately inuncted on rabbit pinnas once a day; the pinnas were biopsied on days 1, 3, 7, and 28. Untreated pinnas and squalane-treated pinnas were used as controls. Three-dimensional images of sebaceous glands were reconstructed from their serial histologic sections using a computer-image analysis system. By stereometry, the sebaceous gland volumes gradually increased during the course of treatments with TS and DMSO, whereas the volumes of TD-treated sebaceous glands increased, reached the maximum on day 7, and then decreased. The acinus number was increased by all the substances, the DMSO-treated sebaceous glands on day 28 showing the largest number of acini. The volumes of individual acini increased until day 28 with TS treatment, whereas with TD and DMSO treatments they increased, reached the maximum on day 7, and then decreased. Stereographically, each untreated control sebaceous gland was composed of 20-30 pear-shaped acini. On day 28, acini of TS-treated sebaceous glands were swollen and ovoid in shape, DMSO-treated sebaceous glands resembled a bunch of grapes, and acini of TD-treated sebaceous glands were widely scattered and showed globular swelling arising from an elongated tube. Hyperplastic responses of sebaceous glands are quite different according to substances applied topically. 
Symptom reporting in wanted and unwanted pregnancies. This study examined the association between unwanted pregnancy and the reporting of pregnancy symptoms in a sample of 99 pregnant women drawn from an urban, medical school based family practice residency. Of these women, 51 had unwanted pregnancies, and 48 had wanted pregnancies. Women with wanted pregnancies were more likely than women with unwanted pregnancies to report three pregnancy symptoms (amenorrhea, breast tenderness, and morning sickness). This association of symptoms with a wanted pregnancy persisted after controlling for age, race, marital status, contraceptive use, menstrual irregularity, and days since last menses through multiple logistic regression. Findings suggest that symptoms may be underreported by women with unwanted pregnancies. 
Ethanol-induced gastric injury. Role of submucosal venoconstriction and leukotrienes. Under in vivo microscopic observation, intragastric ethanol instillation has been seen to cause a prompt, marked constriction of submucosal venules, followed by congestion in mucosal capillaries and severe gross mucosal lesion formation. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that the venoconstriction is mediated by leukotrienes and that inhibition of the venoconstriction would protect against ethanol injury. Intragastric application of the leukotriene receptor antagonist MK-571 inhibited both venoconstriction and gross lesion formation. However, although local submucosal application of MK-571 inhibited venoconstriction, it did not protect the overlying gastric mucosa against ethanol injury. We conclude that leukotrienes play a significant pathogenetic role in ethanol-induced gastric mucosal injury, but while the venoconstriction, mediated by leukotrienes, is one of the factors that promote lesion formation, it is not an essential one. 
Non-acid mechanisms of gastric and duodenal ulcer formation. The pathophysiology of gastric and duodenal ulcer disease has two sides: the aggressive attack, principally by the highly corrosive gastric acid; and the defending forces of mucus, mucosal resistance, and other protective substances and functions. This report reviews the roles of both the attacking and defending forces in the pathophysiology of ulcer disease. It also discusses how an early notion of ulcer formation (e.g., the Schwarz dictum of "no acid, no ulcer," first published in 1910) became the slogan by which ulcer disease was understood and from which therapy took its cue. Subsequent work has since found that the Schwarz dictum holds for duodenal ulcer, but not for gastric ulcer. Non-acid mechanisms of ulcer formation--i.e., impairment of at least one of the defending or protective forces--are also described, as are treatment approaches to ulcer disease. Although suppression of acid secretion is a mainstay of treatment, agents that safely and effectively strengthen the defense are being used more frequently. There are signs that the safe limits for acid-suppressing therapy have been reached or passed. On the other hand, the search for therapy that strengthens the defensive factors has only begun. 
Chimeric gamma-delta signal joints. Implications for the mechanism and regulation of T cell receptor gene rearrangement. Rearrangement of Ag receptor genes requires recognition by the lymphocyte recombinase of heptamer-nonamer signal sequences followed by two endonucleolytic cleavages and two DNA ligations to form the coding and signal joints. The phenomenon of trans-rearrangement, in which Ag receptor gene segments located on different chromosomes recombine to yield chimeric products, provides an in vivo system in which to investigate the ability of the recombinase to carry out each of these functions in trans. Trans-rearrangements between TCRG and TCRD loci, similar in structure and frequency to those observed previously in human lymphoid tissues, were demonstrated in normal mouse thymus by PCR with crossed V gamma/J delta and V delta/J gamma primer pairs. A simple mechanistic model for trans-rearrangement was then tested. This model posits an ability of the recombinase to catalyze the formation of both coding and signal joints in trans and therefore predicts that trans-rearrangements will generate chimeric signal joints. In adult thymus, chimeric D delta 2-J gamma 1 and D delta 2-J gamma 2 signal joints, containing fused heptamer-nonamer sequences, could be detected by PCR and were each present at frequencies sufficient to account for a large proportion of the corresponding TCRG/TCRD trans-rearrangements. In agreement with the predictions of the model, chimeric signal joints were found as both linear chromosomal and circular episomal DNA. The results provide a framework for understanding the formation of chromosomal translocations in normal and neoplastic lymphoid cells and support the possibility of a looping mechanism for standard gene rearrangement. To test the form of regulation of TCRG rearrangement, the frequencies of specific signal joints from standard and trans-rearrangements were compared. Although J gamma 1 and J gamma 2 segments participated with equal frequency in trans-rearrangement with D delta 2, only the J gamma 1 segment participated in standard rearrangement with V gamma 5. The results suggest that V-J recombination in the TCRG locus is regulated directly at the DNA level by cis-acting constraints which do not affect the accessibility of individual TCRG gene segments to recombination in trans. 
Otorhinolaryngologic causes of headache. Pain around the face and neck is common. This pain may be referred from a different area. Because patients usually present with pain and discomfort in a specific location such as the ear, nose, face, throat, or neck, this article discusses separately the innervation of each region and the most frequent causes of pain in each of these areas. 
Effect of recombinant alpha 2 interferon with or without prednisone in Chinese HBsAg carrier children. Ninety Chinese hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carrier children, aged 2-17 years, positive for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and hepatitis B virus DNA on at least three occasions in 6 months, were randomized into 3 groups. Thirty children received syrup vitamin B complex as control, 29 received 6 weeks of placebo syrup followed by 16 weeks of recombinant alpha 2b-interferon [intron A (rIFN2b)], 5 x 10(6) u/m2 subcutaneously thrice weekly; and 31 received 6 weeks of syrup prednisone (0.6 mg/kg tailed to 0.2 mg/kg) followed by 16 weeks of recombinant alpha 2b-interferon as above. The placebo/prednisone syrup was given on a double-blind basis. At 24 months of follow-up, persistent loss of hepatitis B virus DNA occurred in none of the children in the control group, in one child receiving recombinant alpha 2b-interferon alone, who also seroconverted to anti-HBe and anti-HBs and in five children receiving interferon with steroid priming (p = 0.0571 compared with controls), with four seroconverting to anti-HBe and one also seroconverting to anti-HBs. A rise of transaminases to above twice the upper limit of normal levels during the first 7 months of follow-up occurred in one subject in the control group, four in the group receiving alpha 2b-interferon alone and nine in the group receiving recombinant alpha 2b-interferon with steroid priming (p = 0.0144 compared with controls). Side effects of the steroid were negligible; those of recombinant alpha 2b-interferon were transient and acceptable. We conclude that 6 weeks of prednisone followed by 16 weeks of recombinant alpha 2b-interferon is of use in inducing persistent loss of hepatitis B virus DNA (16.1 per cent) and e-seroconversion (12.9 per cent) in a proportion of Chinese HBsAg carrier children: the prednisone probably enhances the immunomodulatory effect of recombinant alpha 2b-interferon. 
Sarcoid neuropathy. In a case of subacute sensory and motor polyneuropathy associated with sarcoidosis, multiple epineurial and endoneurial granulomas were demonstrated in a sural nerve. Neighbouring nerve fibres were displaced by the granulomas and some were undergoing axonal degeneration. Ultrastructural and teased fibre studies showed axonal atrophy and degeneration with secondary demyelination. Histochemical studies indicated the presence of HLA-DR antigen on epithelioid cells in the granulomas. A non-specific inflammatory process in the nerve does not cause significant primary demyelination. 
The impact of tumor size on the efficacy of monoclonal antibody-targeted radiotherapy: studies using a nude mouse model with human renal cell carcinoma xenografts. Monoclonal antibody (Mab)-targeted radiotherapy is a unique approach in cancer therapy. Multiple factors affect the success of treatment. Internal radiation dosimetry and mini-dose Mab-targeted radiotherapy studies reveal that tumor size affects the efficacy of treatment. For tumors with calculated weight greater than 400 mg., intravenous administration of 131I-labeled A6H or A6H-C5H combination delivers significantly less tumor radiation dose (2070 +/- 580 cGy/100 microCi) than those for tumors of weight less than 200 mg. (5260 +/- 2460 cGy/100 microCi). In the mini-dose (an average of 73 to 86 microCi) Mab-targeted radiotherapy study of 109 mice with small tumors (six, 12, or 19 days after implantation), tumors 12 days after implantation (approximately 60 mg. in weight) showed regression in all mice and in 62% of mice gross tumor elimination was observed. In contrast, mini-dose therapy at day 19 (tumor weights approximately 170 mg.) resulted in tumor regression and tumor elimination rates of 33% and 17% respectively. These studies suggest that Mab-targeted radiotherapy is more suitable for treating small tumors. 
Repair of severe anterior vaginal wall prolapse (grade IV cystourethrocele). The classical approach for the repair of severe anterior vaginal wall prolapse is the use of transvaginal colporrhaphy or, more recently, an abdominal paravaginal repair. Severe cystoceles develop from weaknesses of the levator sling and pubocervical fasciae resulting in 2 main anatomical changes: a central defect between the pubocervical fasciae, and a sliding herniation of the bladder and urethra (paravaginal defect). We developed a new transvaginal technique for the repair of large cystoceles (grade IV) extending outside of the introitus at rest, which includes repair of the central defect by anterior colporrhaphy, and repair of the paravaginal herniation of the bladder base and bladder neck by a needle suspension of these structures. We report our experience within a 5-year period in the treatment of 51 cases of severe bladder prolapse (grade IV cystoceles), 46 of which required this combined procedure regardless of preoperative stress urinary incontinence status. Five patients underwent anterior colporrhaphy as the only procedure, since they were continent and demonstrated a well supported bladder neck from a previous suspension operation. Other vaginal abnormalities should be repaired simultaneously to provide adequate pelvic floor support. 
Composite graft repair of Marfan aneurysm of the ascending aorta: results in 100 patients. One hundred consecutive patients with the Marfan syndrome underwent composite graft repair of an ascending aortic aneurysm between September 1976 and June 1989. Twenty-two patients had ascending aortic dissection at the time of composite graft repair; 18 patients also had a mitral valve procedure. There were no hospital deaths among 92 patients undergoing elective repair. One of 8 patients undergoing emergency repair of a ruptured aneurysm died in the operating room. The overall hospital mortality rate was 1%. There have been ten late deaths among the 99 hospital survivors (10.1%). Five deaths occurred among the first 11 patients in this series and five occurred among the last 88 patients (5.7%). Three late deaths resulted from composite graft endocarditis; 3 other patients with endocarditis are alive after aortic root replacement with cryopreserved homografts. Late coronary dehiscence caused death in 1 patient and was successfully repaired in a second. Actuarial survival for the 100 patients was 92.6% at 5 years and 75.8% at 10 years. Currently, composite graft repair of Marfan aneurysms of the ascending aorta can be performed with low hospital and late mortality. Marfan aneurysms with a diameter of 6 cm or greater should be repaired with the Bentall composite graft procedure, even if the patient is asymptomatic. 
Value and limitations of secondary femoropopliteal bypasses with polytetrafluoroethylene. Secondary femoropopliteal bypasses with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) grafts are widely regarded to be of questionable value. This has prompted some to abandon all attempts at secondary revascularization with PTFE and others to recommend that primary femoropopliteal bypasses be performed preferentially with PTFE grafts so that vein may be used for secondary procedures. Because we questioned both of these views, we reviewed all femoropopliteal bypasses done at our institution in the past 12 years and identified 73 secondary PTFE femoropopliteal procedures performed after a failed ipsilateral infrainguinal bypass (69 failed femoropopliteal; 4 failed femorodistal). Seventy (96%) secondary bypasses were performed for limb salvage and 3 (4%) for severe disabling claudication. Insertion of grafts to the popliteal artery was above the knee in 26 (36%) and below the knee in 47 (64%). Primary life-table graft patency at 4 years was only 38%. Forty-eight reinterventions in 34 limbs were required to restore or maintain graft patency in thrombosed or failing grafts. For thrombosed grafts, 20 interventions consisted of 9 simple thrombectomies and 11 thrombectomies with additional revision procedures (5 distal or proximal extensions, 6 patch angioplasties). Twenty-eight lesions threatening graft patency were treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in 3, proximal or distal extensions in 20, and patch angioplasty in 5. As a result of these reinterventions, the overall secondary patency rate was 55% at 4 years, and the limb salvage rate was 74% at 4 years. Although aggressive follow-up and reintervention may be required, the use of secondary PTFE conduits in the femoropopliteal position is a viable option in patients undergoing limb salvage procedures who are at high risk. 
Microorganisms and diarrhea in enterally fed intensive care unit patients. Thirty-six intensive care unit patients, receiving aseptic or manually (routine) reconstituted enteral feeding formulas, were evaluated prospectively for the relationship of microbial involvement, gastric pH, and antimicrobial therapy to diarrhea. The routine protocol group had a significantly higher incidence of bacterial contamination than the aseptic protocol group (Fisher's exact test, p less than 0.05). There were no significant direct associations between isolate category (Gram-negative bacilli, Gram-positive cocci, Gram-negative cocci, yeast), gastric pH, or antimicrobials and diarrhea. However, two organisms (Group D Enterococci and yeast) were indirectly implicated in some cases of diarrhea. 
Subcellular characteristics of phospholipase A2 activity in the rat kidney. Enhanced cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal phospholipase A2 enzymatic activity after renal ischemia and reperfusion. Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activities in cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal fractions of rat kidneys were characterized under control conditions, after ischemia, and subsequent to ischemia and reperfusion. Two forms of PLA2 activity were present in the cytosolic fraction: a high molecular weight form, active against phosphatidylcholine (PC), and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), which upon purification has a molecular mass of 110 kD; and smaller form (Mr approximately 14 kD), active against PE. In mitochondrial and microsomal fractions a single form (Mr approximately 14 kD), active against both PC and PE, was dominant. Activities in each fraction were optimal at pH 8.5-9.5. Cytosolic PLA2 activity was enhanced when Ca2+ concentration [( Ca2+]) was increased over the range of 10(-7) to 10(-6) M. Mitochondrial PLA2 activity required higher [Ca2+] for activation (greater than 10(-6) M). After 45 min of ischemia cytosolic PLA2 activity was decreased, whereas mitochondrial and microsomal activities were increased. When ischemia was followed by 1 h of reperfusion, cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal activities were enhanced. Ischemia alone did not change the gel filtration chromatography patterns of PLA2 activity, but ischemia and reperfusion resulted in the appearance of a new peak of activity in cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions (Mr approximately 2-3 kD). Thus, the rat kidney has multiple forms of PLA2 activity, likely representing distinct enzymes, with Ca2+ dependencies suggesting regulation by Ca2+ in vivo. Ischemia and reperfusion result in stable increases of PLA2 activity in each subcellular fraction, perhaps related to covalent modifications of PLA2's, which likely account for membrane phospholipid degradation, and increased tissue levels of unsaturated free fatty acids. 
Polytetrafluoroethylene vs. polypropylene suture for endoscopic bladder neck suspension. Between May 1989 and October 1989, 24 women underwent a prospective, randomized study comparing polypropylene (Prolene) and polytetrafluoroethylene (Gore-Tex) sutures for endoscopic bladder neck suspension. Polypropylene was associated with significantly more suture pain than polytetrafluoroethylene. Polytetrafluoroethylene was more difficult to tie at a predetermined tension. 
Diltiazem administration after crystalloid resuscitation restores active hepatocellular function and hepatic blood flow after severe hemorrhagic shock. Studies have shown that active hepatocellular function is depressed after hemorrhagic shock, despite crystalloid resuscitation. It is also known that calcium antagonists produce various beneficial effects on cell and organ function after ischemia and shock. However, it remains unknown whether such agents have any salutary effects on the depressed active hepatocellular function and hepatic blood flow in a nonheparinized model of trauma and hemorrhage. To study this, rats underwent a midline laparotomy (trauma-induced) and were bled to and maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 40 mm Hg until 40% of the maximum bleedout was returned in the form of Ringer's lactate. They were then resuscitated with four times the volume of shed blood with Ringer's lactate over 60 minutes, during and after which diltiazem (400 micrograms/kg body weight) was infused intravenously over 95 minutes. Active hepatocellular function (Vmax and Km) was determined with an in vivo indocyanine green clearance technique. Effective hepatic blood flow (EHBF) was determined by Fick principle and corrected by the indocyanine green extraction ratio. Hepatic microvascular blood flow (HMBF) was measured by laser Doppler flowmetry. Results indicate that Vmax, Km, EHBF, and HMBF decreased significantly at 1.5 and 4 hours after resuscitation. Diltiazem infusion restored the depressed Vmax, Km, EHBF, and HMBF and prevented the occurrence of hepatic edema. Thus, diltiazem may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of trauma and severe hemorrhage even in the absence of blood resuscitation. 
Bradykinin-stimulated inositol phosphate production in NG108-15 cells is mediated by a small population of binding sites which rapidly desensitize. [3H]Bradykinin (BDK) binds to two distinct binding sites (P less than .01, N = 12) in NG108-15 cell membranes; (site 1: Kd1 = 3.09 x 10(-10) M, Bmax1 = 242 +/- 24 fmol/mg protein) and (site 2: Kd2 = 1.94 x 10(-8) M, Bmax2 = 491 +/- 75 fmol/mg protein). Although site 1 comprises only 33 +/- 4% (N = 12) of the total binding site population, comparison of the binding affinity and functional potency for BDK agonist analogs exhibiting differential selectivity for the two sites reveals that this high affinity site is the receptor mediating inositol monophosphate (IP) production in this cell line. BDK-stimulated IP production undergoes a very rapid (5 min) desensitization that is characterized by both a loss in agonist potency (EC50 = 3.57 x 10(-9) M vs. 1.94 x 10(-10) M in controls; P less than .001, N = 12) and a decrease in amplitude of response (fold stimulation = 1.45 +/- 0.06 vs. 1.80 +/- 0.09 in controls; P less than .01, N = 12). Only the decrease in response amplitude is attenuated by down-regulation of protein kinase C by prior long term treatment of the cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA), indicating an involvement of protein kinase C activation in the desensitization process. Desensitization is accompanied by down-regulation of site 1 only (Bmax1 = 71 +/- 8 fmol/mg (N = 10; P less than .001 vs. controls)); Bmax2 and the Kd for BDK at both sites remain unchanged, further supporting the contention that site 1 is the functionally relevant receptor. In contrast to the functional data, long term TPA treatment does not attenuate the receptor down-regulation, indicating that the rapid desensitization involves both receptor-related and postreceptor mechanisms. The implications of this property of the BDK receptor for analog design and receptor classification are discussed. 
Observations on the Kveim reaction using an animal model of granulomatous bowel disease. Striking differences were observed between the visceral and cutaneous responses after tests with validated Kveim and normal spleen suspensions in a guinea pig model of granulomatous bowel disease. Five of six animals sensitised with BCG showed positive responses at the ileal Kveim test site whereas all six had negative cutaneous Kveim tests. Conversely, two of six animals sensitised with irradiated Mycobacterium leprae showed positive cutaneous Kveim tests and only one a positive response in the ascending colon. All six showed negative responses at the ileal Kveim test site. No positive visceral or cutaneous responses were observed in either group of animals after tests with normal spleen suspension. These findings are discussed in relation to the positive Kveim responses previously reported among patients with Crohn's disease, tuberculoid and lepromatous leprosy, and among seemingly healthy BCG vaccinated subjects. The findings provide further evidence in support of a possible mycobacterial aetiology for sarcoidosis and Crohn's disease. 
Effects of vascular runoff on myointimal hyperplasia after mechanical balloon or thermal laser arterial injury in dogs. BACKGROUND. Clinical evidence suggests that poor vascular runoff reduces the long-term success rate of femoral angioplasty procedures. The purpose of this experimental study was to examine myointimal hyperplasia of dog femoral arteries after balloon denudation, thermal laser arterial injury, or sham operation in normal and reduced vascular runoff conditions. METHODS AND RESULTS. Before mechanical balloon injury or transluminal heated laser probe motion, the peripheral vascular runoff of dogs was reduced by ligating the femoral artery below its three distal side branches, decreasing the femoral flow rate from 114 +/- 9 to 52 +/- 5 ml/min (mean +/- SEM). Endothelial denudation with a predominantly intact elastic internal membrane and circumferential structural changes in the media were noted by light microscopy 1 hour after balloon injury. Focal completely necrotic lesions of intima and media were found 1 hour after thermal laser arterial injury. After 8 weeks, the maximal thickness of neointima plus media of the site of previous intervention was greater after balloon injury (0.45 +/- 0.03 mm) and thermal laser injury (0.54 +/- 0.03 mm) than after sham operation (0.40 +/- 0.01 mm; p less than 0.001) in normal runoff dogs. Reduced vascular runoff augmented myointimal hyperplasia both in the balloon-injured and thermally damaged arteries; the wall thickness increased from 0.45 +/- 0.03 to 0.93 +/- 0.10 mm and from 0.54 +/- 0.03 to 0.65 +/- 0.05 mm, respectively (p less than 0.001). The neointimal and medial wall area of the balloon-injured arteries contributed 48% to the area encompassed by the external elastic membrane compared with an 81% portion when vascular runoff was reduced (p less than 0.01). A 47% neointimal and medial wall area was found in thermally injured arteries with normal runoff compared with 63% after runoff reduction (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSION. This study suggests that hemodynamic factors associated with poor vascular runoff play an important role in extending myointimal hyperplasia independent of method and severity of the arterial injury during angioplasty. 
Human papillomavirus--associated vulvar verrucous carcinoma in a 20-year-old with an intact hymen. A case report. A 20-year-old woman with vulvar verrucous carcinoma, the youngest such patient reported to date, had human papillomavirus DNA 6/11 identified with an in situ hybridization technique. In addition to her youth, the patient was unusual in that she had an intact hymen. Although she denied having engaged in sexual activity, venereal transmission of the virus may have occurred without vaginal penetration. 
DNA/RNA content and proliferative fractions of colorectal carcinomas: a five-year prospective study relating flow cytometry to survival. In our prospective study, flow cytometric analysis of cellular DNA and RNA content was performed on unfixed fresh specimens of colorectal adenocarcinoma taken from 176 patients. Of the 176 tumors, 113 (64%) were aneuploid. There was no correlation between aneuploidy and tumor stage, grade, location, or size. After a median follow-up of 5.6 years, no correlation between DNA or RNA content and patient survival was found. DNA content alone was not an independent prognostic factor when the colorectal carcinomas were segregated by curable and incurable stages. However, normal mucosa, diploid tumors, and aneuploid tumors showed progressively higher proliferation and higher RNA and DNA indices. Proliferative fraction--defined as the percentage of cells in S + G2 and M phases of the cell cycle--was significantly related to ploidy and to Dukes' stage. Despite these correlations, we did not detect a significant influence of proliferative fraction on survival when patients were segregated above or below the mean proliferative fraction for all tumors. More accurate methods of identifying the proliferative fraction of tumor cells are currently being pursued. While the role of flow cytometry in the evaluation and management of patients with colorectal carcinoma is still undefined for a number of other cellular parameters, it seems unlikely that DNA index, RNA index, or the proliferative fractions calculated from the DNA histogram, will, of themselves, represent independent prognostic factors. 
Carotid endarterectomy in Great Britain and Ireland: trends and current practice. Of 309 questionnaires on carotid endarterectomy sent to all surgeons in Great Britain and Ireland who might use this technique, 298 (96 per cent) were returned. In all, 110 (37 per cent) of 298 surgeons performed at least one carotid endarterectomy in 1989; 67 performed less than 10 and 43 greater than 10. In total, these 110 surgeons performed 1417 operations in 1989, a situation that has changed little over 5 years since the previous survey. Transient ischaemic attack and minor stroke remain the main indications for carotid endarterectomy; the operation was hardly ever performed for asymptomatic stenosis. By 1989 almost all surgeons initially assessed prospective patients using a technique less invasive than conventional angiography; duplex scanning was used 'always' or 'sometimes' by 70 per cent of surgeons. While 72 per cent of surgeons in 1984 'always' required conventional angiograms before operation, by 1989 only 21 per cent did so, most now relying on less invasive techniques. During operation there was an increasing use of shunts, carotid sinus nerve blockade and patch closure of the arteriotomy. The overall number of carotid endarterectomies performed annually in Great Britain and Ireland has remained steady over the past 5 years and is relatively low for a population of 60 millions. An increase in the number of surgeons performing the operation is almost entirely accounted for by an increase in those performing less than 10 carotid endarterectomies per year. 
Transplantation of kidneys from pediatric cadaver donors to adult recipients. Pediatric donors (less than 12 years old) are a potentially important source of kidneys for adult recipients. Previous reports of decreased graft survival and increased complication rates have made surgeons wary of using such kidneys. In 64 kidneys from younger donors transplanted to adult recipients the delayed graft function rate (41 versus 42%), and 2 and 3-year graft survival rates (67 versus 72% and 61 versus 65%, respectively) were similar to those seen with kidneys from adult donors. Kidneys from donors 24 months old or less experienced an 80% rate of graft loss at 1 year. When these kidneys are excluded the 1-year graft survival rate was similar to kidneys from older and younger donors (70 versus 77%). Mean serum creatinine at 1 year was similar in both groups (155 +/- 21 versus 151 +/- 10). Pediatric kidneys except those obtained from donors 2 years old or less are suitable for adult recipients. However, kidneys from very young donors may be more appropriate to pediatric recipients. 
Use of social science research to improve epidemiologic studies of and interventions for diarrhea and dysentery. The significance of dysentery has not been recognized in community-based programs for the management of diarrhea. Culturally sensitive methods of classification and algorithms for treatment of these diseases must be developed. Considered in this article is the manner in which ethnographic studies of diarrhea can contribute to descriptive epidemiologic data on diarrhea and dysentery and to procedures of health education and evaluation of interventions for the diseases. Indigenous terms for bloody diarrhea exist in many cultures. Local use of such terms must be carefully examined before they are incorporated in health education efforts and epidemiologic surveillance programs. 
Pneumocephalus associated with benign brain tumor: report of two cases. Two cases of spontaneous pneumocephalus, which developed after ventriculoperitoneal shunt procedures for severe hydrocephalus caused by benign brain tumors, are reported. In both cases there was no previous history of cerebrospinal fluid leakage. Operation revealed that both patients had many small defects of the dura mater and the bone in the middle cranial fossa, which were plugged by necrotic brain tissue. These defects were remote from the sites of the original tumors but may have been produced by long-standing raised intracranial pressure, and they presumably allowed air to enter after intracranial pressure was reduced by shunting. Repair of the defects prevented further intracranial air retention. 
Activation of a member of the steroid hormone receptor superfamily by peroxisome proliferators We have cloned a member of the steroid hormone receptor superfamily of ligand-activated transcription factors. The receptor homologue is activated by a diverse class of rodent hepatocarcinogens that causes proliferation of peroxisomes. Identification of a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor should help elucidate the mechanism of the hypolipidaemic effect of these hepatocarcinogens and aid evaluation of their potential carcinogenic risk to man. 
Experimental evaluation of myocardial protective effect of prostacyclin analog (OP-41483) as an adjunct to cardioplegic solution. A stable prostacyclin analog (OP-41483) was evaluated for myocardial protective effect against global ischemia with the use of cardioplegia. Isolated canine hearts (n = 25) were exposed to 60 minutes of warm (37 degrees C) global ischemia after the arrest by crystalloid cardioplegia. Prostaglandin analog was given in three different ways: preadministration (700 ng/kg body weight per minute) before ischemia for 30 minutes (group I, n = 5), given as a component of cardioplegic solution (600 ng/ml, group II, n, = 6), and post-administration (25 ng/kg body weight per minute) during reperfusion for 30 minutes (group III, n = 7). During reperfusion, coronary sinus blood flow, 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha in coronary sinus blood, and myocardial oxygen consumption were measured during reperfusion. As a result, groups II and III showed significantly better global left ventricular function (developed pressure, maximum dP/dt, and diastolic compliance) than the control group (without prostaglandin analog, n = 7) and group I. Myocardial oxygen consumption at reperfusion (1 minute) was significantly larger in group II than in the control group. 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha flux was significantly larger in group II than in the other three groups during reperfusion. The results indicated that prostaglandin analog has a beneficial effect on myocardial protection under global ischemia with cardioplegia, particularly when used as a component of cardioplegic solution and also during reperfusion. The mechanism may relate to the cytoprotective effect (including protection of endothelium with enhanced endogenous prostacyclin production at reperfusion and also to the modulation of reperfusion per se. 
Cortical control of reflexive visually-guided saccades. Reflexive visually-guided saccade triggering may be facilitated or inhibited by the cerebral cortex. To study this control, saccades made towards suddenly appearing visual targets (saccade task) or away from them (antisaccade task) were recorded electro-oculographically in 45 patients with limited unilateral cerebral infarction. Lesions affected (1) the superior part of the angular gyrus (area 39 of Brodmann) in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC), (2) the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) (area 46 of Brodmann), (3) the frontal eye field (FEF), or (4) the supplementary motor area (SMA). As these 4 types of lesions were located either in the right or the left cerebral hemisphere, patients were divided into 8 groups. Saccade latency, in the saccade task, and the percentage of errors (misdirected saccades made towards the visual target), in the antisaccade task, were compared in each group of patients with the values of 20 control subjects. In the saccade task, saccade latency was significantly increased bilaterally in the right PPC group. In the left PPC group, the increase in latency was less marked, and significant only for saccades made contralaterally to the lesion. In the different frontal groups, latency was unchanged or only slightly increased. These results confirm that the main area facilitating the triggering of reflexive visually-guided saccades is located in the PPC, in or near the superior part of the angular gyrus. The difference between right and left parietal lesions could be due to the predominance of the right hemisphere in the control of these saccades. In the antisaccade task, the percentage of errors was significantly increased bilaterally in both PFC groups compared with the control group and also to the FEF and SMA groups. These results suggest that the PFC is the main area in the cerebral hemisphere inhibiting reflexive visually-guided saccades. 
An autopsy study of the incidence of lacunes in relation to age, hypertension, and arteriosclerosis. We investigated selected features of lacunes in 1,086 necropsy cases. Lacunes were found in brains from patients above the age of 40 years and were most common in brains from persons in their sixties but decreased in number in brains from older persons. The most common site of lacunes was the frontal lobe white matter, followed by the putamen, pons, parietal lobe white matter, thalamus, and caudate nucleus in descending order of frequency. By dividing the 1,086 cases into three groups according to blood pressure, we found more lacunes in the hypertensive and borderline hypertensive groups than in the normotensive group; the average number of lacunes per brain in each group was 3.61, 2.77, and 1.15, respectively. Diastolic hypertension was more closely related to the number of lacunes than was systolic hypertension. The extent of arteriolosclerosis of the medullary arteries in the frontal lobe white matter was measured and compared with the number of lacunes. There was a close correlation between lacunes and arterioloslerosis in all age groups. 
Treatment of vasospasm with a 480-nm pulsed-dye laser. Laser energy at a wavelength of 480 nm was applied in 1-microseconds pulses of 3 to 10 mJ to two models of vasospasm. Rabbit common carotid arteries (CCA's) were constricted chronically by the application of human blood within a silicone sheath. Peak vasospasm developed 24 to 48 hours later, and persisted for up to 6 days. Endovascular laser treatment was delivered to 40 CCA's via a 200-microns diameter silica quartz fiber introduced through the femoral artery. The CCA caliber increased from 60% of the pre-vasospasm control diameter to a minimum post-laser diameter of 83% of control. No instances of laser-induced perforation or of arterial thrombosis were observed for up to 60 days after treatment. Prophylactic laser application to nine normal vessels was able to attenuate the development of vasospasm if blood was applied immediately thereafter (88% vs. 59% of control diameter, p less than 0.02), but not if blood was applied 7 days later. Studies in 16 normal CCA's established that there was a considerable margin between the laser energy required to induce dilatation and that which caused perforation, providing that the fiber remained relatively central within the artery. Morphological examination demonstrated focal loss of endothelial cells immediately after laser application, followed approximately 7 days later by the development of areas of intimal hyperplasia. Only minimal changes were observed in the medial or adventitial layers. In a second study, the basilar artery of seven dogs was constricted chronically by two intracisternal injections of autologous blood 3 days apart. Five dogs received endovascular laser treatment 7 or 10 days after the first injection, when basilar artery diameter was reduced to a mean of 61% and 77% of control, respectively. Immediately following treatment, basilar artery diameter increased to 104% and 102% of resting diameter, respectively. Both untreated and laser-treated arteries were smaller than the control diameter at 30 days (80% and 82%, respectively), but in each group the vasodilatory response to hypercapnia was preserved. These findings indicate that 1-microsecond laser pulses are well tolerated by systemic and cerebral arteries in two different animal models, and suggest that the 480-nm pulsed-dye laser may have an application for the treatment or prophylaxis of cerebral vasospasm. 
HBxAg in the liver from carrier patients with chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens from 110 cases of chronic hepatitis and 108 cases of cirrhosis were stained for HBxAg by the avidin-biotin complex technique using specific antisera made against full-length HBxAg polypeptide or derived synthetic peptides. These tissues were also stained for the HBsAg and HBcAg by the peroxidase-anti-peroxidase method. Among patients with chronic hepatitis, 86% were HBsAg positive in liver cells, 60% were surface antigen positive and 32% were core antigen positive. Among patients with cirrhosis, 97% were HBsAg positive in liver cells, 72% were surface antigen positive and 17% were positive for core antigen. Staining specificity was demonstrated, in part, by using preimmune sera in the place of primary antibody, by blocking of the primary antibody with the appropriate antigen before assay and by testing uninfected liver controls. The persistence and high frequency of HBxAg in liver cells from patients with chronic liver disease suggest that it may play one or more important roles in the pathogenesis of chronic infection. It is possible that detection of HBxAg in the liver could be an additional new diagnostic marker for hepatitis B virus infection. However, the function(s) of HBxAg in the pathogenesis of the chronic liver disease, if any, remains to be explained. 
Pyomyositis in patients with the human immunodeficiency virus: an unusual form of disseminated bacterial infection. PURPOSE AND PATIENTS: Pyomyositis, a common disease in the tropics, is rare in the continental United States, with approximately 83 cases described in the literature in the past two decades. The occurrence of pyomyositis complicating human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has been reported in 10 patients since 1986. We report six cases of this entity in patients with advanced HIV disease seen in our institution over a 20-month period. A common denominator in all of our patients was muscle injury, induced by either exercise or trauma. Unlike most previous reports of HIV-associated pyomyositis, the clinical picture in our cases was complicated by the development of abscesses in multiple muscle groups, requiring prolonged antimicrobial therapy and repeated drainage procedures for successful management. Interestingly, one patient developed concomitant rhabdomyolysis--an otherwise rare event in classical pyomyositis. Staphylococcus aureus was the predominant infecting organism in this as well as all other series. Of note, we also observed and report the first case, to our knowledge, of gram-negative pyomyositis in an HIV-infected individual. The pathogenic implications of this catalase-producing gram-negative isolate are discussed in the context of neutrophil abnormalities in HIV disease. CONCLUSION: Like tropical pyomyositis, its HIV-associated counterpart appears to be multifactorial in origin. Its recent recognition suggests that, in addition to underlying abnormalities of host defense, factors relating to the prolonged survival of patients with late-stage disease, including myopathy, might play an important contributory role. 
Propranolol in the prevention of the first hemorrhage from esophagogastric varices: A multicenter, randomized clinical trial. The Boston-New Haven-Barcelona Portal Hypertension Study Group. To assess the effectiveness of propranolol in the prevention of initial variceal hemorrhage, a double-blind, randomized trial was carried out in three centers. Patients with cirrhosis (78% alcoholic), hepatic venous pressure gradients greater than 12 mm Hg and endoscopically proven esophageal varices were randomly assigned to propranolol (51 patients) or placebo (51 patients). Of the 102 patients, 58% were Child's class A, 34% were Child's class B and 8% were Child's class C. Daily dosage was determined by the administration of progressively increasing doses of propranolol with the hepatic vein catheter in place to achieve a 25% decrease in hepatic venous pressure gradient, a decrease in hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm Hg or a decrease in resting heart rate to less than 55 beats/min. During a mean follow-up period of 16.3 mo, 11 patients in the placebo group (22%) bled from esophageal varices compared with 2 in the propranolol group (4%) during a mean period of 17.1 mo (p less than 0.01). Three additional patients (6%) in the placebo group bled from portal hypertensive gastropathy compared with none in the propranolol group. Propranolol appeared effective in preventing bleeding from large varices. Eleven deaths (22%) occurred in the placebo group compared with eight deaths (16%) in the propranolol group (NS). The mean dose of propranolol was 132 mg/day, and the median dose was 80 mg/day. Using a compliance index (pill count, clinic attendance, alcohol and propranolol levels and alcohol history), 81% of the propranolol patients and 77% of the placebo patients were considered compliant. Complications severe enough to require cessation of therapy occurred in eight patients (16%) in the propranolol group and four in the placebo group (8%) (NS). We conclude that propranolol effectively prevents the first variceal hemorrhage in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and large esophageal varices but does not improve survival. 
Verapamil and migraine prophylaxis: mechanisms and efficacy. Calcium channel blockers have demonstrated efficacy in investigative use for prophylaxis of migraine and cluster headaches. In particular, verapamil, with its low side-effect profile, appears to be a promising alternative to the currently available agents for prophylactic treatment of chronic recurring headaches. Although its exact mechanisms of action in this application are unknown, verapamil exerts a vasodilatory effect on cerebral arteries and interacts with serotonergic systems involved in migraine pathogenesis. A review of studies from the past decade indicates that verapamil may be as effective as traditional therapies as prophylaxis for the major types of chronic recurring headache. 
Celiac axis and superior mesenteric artery injury associated with left radical nephrectomy for locally advanced renal cell carcinoma. The superior mesenteric artery and celiac axis were inadvertently ligated during left radical nephrectomy for a large upper pole renal carcinoma with massive perihilar and periaortic adenopathy. Computer-generated 3-dimensional illustrations created from the computerized tomography scan demonstrated the close proximity between these visceral branches and the adenopathy mass complex, and showed how this bulky disease may interfere with surgical anatomy. When left radical nephrectomy is performed for locally advanced and/or bulky node-positive renal neoplasms, surgeons must be cognizant of the location of the major visceral arterial branches and possible anatomical distortions. 
Persistence of symptoms after gall bladder clearance with cholecystolithotripsy. Forty six patients rendered stone and fragment free with successful cholecystolithotripsy without the use of oral chemolitholysis were followed by serial ultrasound for a period of two to 25 months (mean 11 months, median 10 months). Seven patients (15%), six of whom remain asymptomatic, developed recurrent calculi. Of the 39 gall stone free patients, 26 were asymptomatic. Six patients complained of persistent abdominal pain similar to that before treatment. One of these had a bile duct stone. Seven patients complained of a variety of non-biliary symptoms. The patient with recurrent gall stones and recurrent symptoms is eligible for further lithotripsy treatment. The overall 30% incidence of persistent abdominal symptoms is similar to that reported after elective cholecystectomy. 
Pathogenesis and management of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Several pathophysiologic abnormalities known to be associated with the development of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) are reviewed. Among them are the contributions of lower esophageal sphincter pressure, length, and relaxation, the role of hiatal hernia, delayed esophageal acid clearance, and impaired esophageal mucosal resistance. Gastric factors--volume, secretion, the character of the refluxant, and the rate of gastric emptying--also play a role in the pathogenesis of GERD. Treatment requires an individualized approach based on the extent of the symptoms, esophagitis, and other reflux complications. Three phases of treatment--lifestyle modifications, pharmacologic manipulation, and surgery--are discussed, as is maintenance therapy and prevention of recurrent disease. 
Cervical anterior spinal artery syndrome associated with cardiopulmonary arrest. Nontraumatic spinal cord ischemia is uncommon, especially when the cervical cord is involved. We present an elderly man who sustained acute occlusion of the anterior spinal artery at a high cervical level. This was followed by a respiratory arrest due to the paralysis of the diaphragm and chest wall muscles. A review of the vascular supply to the cord and of nontraumatic ischemic myelopathy is provided. 
Dobutamine versus dipyridamole echocardiography in coronary artery disease. Dobutamine and dipyridamole echocardiography are gaining popularity as exercise-independent stress tests for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. To compare the feasibility, sensitivity, and specificity of dobutamine echocardiography to dipyridamole echocardiography, we conducted both tests, on different days and in random order, on 35 patients with chest pain and suspected coronary artery disease. Dobutamine was administered in scalar doses up to 40 micrograms/kg per minute and dipyridamole up to 0.84 mg/kg for 10 minutes. Dobutamine echocardiography testing was positive in eight of 16 (50%) patients with single-vessel disease and in 11 of 12 (92%) patients with multivessel disease, resulting in an overall sensitivity of 68% for the presence of coronary artery disease. Dipyridamole echocardiography testing showed the same sensitivity as dobutamine in patients with multivessel disease but a lower sensitivity (31%) in single-vessel disease, resulting in an overall sensitivity of 57%. The specificity of both tests was 100%. An ST segment shift of more than 1 mm compared with baseline was documented in 74% of the positive dobutamine echocardiography tests and in 81% of the positive dipyridamole echocardiography tests. No major complications occurred during both tests. Ventricular arrhythmias occurred in 11 patients with dobutamine and in none with dipyridamole (31% versus 0%, p less than 0.001). Thus, in our selected population dobutamine echocardiography testing demonstrated a similar overall sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease compared with dipyridamole, with a slightly better sensitivity for single-vessel disease but a greater arrhythmogenic potential. 
Scintigraphic assessment of sympathetic innervation after transmural versus nontransmural myocardial infarction To evaluate the feasibility of detecting denervated myocardium in the infarcted canine heart, the distribution of sympathetic nerve endings using I-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) was compared with the distribution of perfusion using thallium-201, with the aid of color-coded computer functional map in 16 dogs. Twelve dogs underwent myocardial infarction by injection of vinyl latex into the left anterior descending coronary artery (transmural myocardial infarction, n = 6), or ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery (nontransmural myocardial infarction, n = 6). Four dogs served as sham-operated controls. Image patterns were compared with tissue norepinephrine content and with histofluorescence microscopic findings in biopsy specimens. Hearts with transmural infarction showed zones of absent MIBG and thallium, indicating scar. Adjacent and distal regions showed reduced MIBG but normal thallium uptake, indicating viable but denervated myocardium. Denervation distal to infarction was confirmed by reduced norepinephrine content and absence of nerve fluorescence. Nontransmural myocardial infarction showed zones of wall thinning with decreased thallium uptake and a greater reduction or absence of MIBG localized to the region of the infarct, with minimal extension of denervation beyond the infarct. Norepinephrine content was significantly reduced in the infarct zone, and nerve fluorescence was absent. These findings suggest that 1) MIBG imaging can detect viable and perfused but denervated myocardium after infarction; and 2) as opposed to the distal denervation produced by transmural infarction, nontransmural infarction may lead to regional ischemic damage of sympathetic nerves, but may spare subepicardial nerve trunks that course through the region of infarction to provide a source of innervation to distal areas of myocardium. 
Vitamin E levels in premenstrual syndrome. To determine whether changes in peripheral vitamin E levels are associated with symptoms of premenstrual syndrome, 10 patients with premenstrual syndrome and 10 control subjects were studied. They gave blood at 2- or 3-day intervals throughout three menstrual cycles. The vitamin E was measured by fluorometry after hexane extraction and luteinizing hormone was measured by radioimmunoassay. In the control group, vitamin E values were 854 +/- 45 micrograms/dl (mean +/- SE) during the luteal phase and 925 +/- 55 micrograms/dl during the follicular phase. No significant changes were noted between the two values. In the patients with premenstrual syndrome, the values were 849 +/- 53 micrograms/dl during the luteal phase, which was not significantly different from 858 +/- 48 micrograms/dl during the follicular phase. No significant changes were noted between the control group and the patients with premenstrual syndrome in either the luteal or the follicular phase. Vitamin E deficiency in patients with premenstrual syndrome was not shown by peripheral vitamin E levels in our study. 
Treatment of pseudotumor cerebri by primary and secondary optic nerve sheath decompression. We performed optic nerve sheath decompression in 53 patients (101 eyes) with pseudotumor cerebri and visual loss. Sixty-nine eyes (85 patients) with acute papilledema uniformly had improved visual function after optic nerve sheath decompression. Of 32 eyes with chronic papilledema (18 patients), only ten had improved visual function after optic nerve sheath decompression. This difference was significant (P = .0001). Thirteen eyes required secondary or tertiary optic nerve sheath decompression after an initial successful result. Eleven of 13 eyes had improved visual function after repeat optic nerve sheath decompression. We believe that patients with acute papilledema and visual loss should be offered optic nerve sheath decompression, and if symptoms recur, repeat optic nerve sheath decompression is a safe and effective treatment option. 
The role of tagged red blood cell imaging in the localization of gastrointestinal bleeding. The records of 162 patients who underwent technetium-99m-tagged red blood cell scans for the localization of gastrointestinal hemorrhage were studied. Ninety-eight scans were read as positive, with bleeding sites determined by a radiologist. Forty-six patients had a definitive diagnosis made by other means. Tagged scans accurately localized the site of bleeding in only 52% of cases. Analysis of the value of these tagged scans in predicting a subsequent positive angiogram indicated that there were 14 positive and 12 negative angiograms of 26 positive scans. Of the nine patients with negative scans who underwent arteriography, the arteriogram was positive in five. These data suggest that tagged red blood cell scanning is a poor diagnostic technique for the localization of gastrointestinal bleeding, and its use as a screening tool before angiography is questionable. 
Double anal canal: complication of rectal fecalith. Fecaliths and stercoraceous ulcerations are well-known complications of chronic constipation. The authors present the case of a double anal canal in an elderly man. This anorectal fistula (complex anal fistula) developed as a complication of an impacted rectal fecalith with resultant stercoraceous ulceration. Eventually, a persistent epithelialized canal developed and was demonstrated at double-contrast barium enema examination. The patient remained continent at all times. 
Antispasmodic effects of flavoxate, MFCA, and REC 15/2053 on smooth muscle of human prostate and urinary bladder. The antispasmodic effects of the flavone compounds flavoxate hydrochloride, 3-methylflavone carboxylic acid (MFCA), and REC 15/2053 (and in the case of the detrusor, oxybutynin), on the human detrusor, prostatic adenoma, prostatic capsule, and bladder neck, were studied by the in vitro isometric method. All the compounds inhibited, in different orders of potency, potassium-induced contractions of the tissues. Flavoxate showed a slightly greater activity than the other two compounds in the prostatic and bladder neck tissues. However, REC 15/2053 displayed greater activity in the detrusor than in the other tissues. The relaxant effect on the prostatic tissues suggests a potential use for these compounds in benign prostatic obstruction. 
Effect of halothane on arrhythmogenic responses induced by sympathomimetic agents in single rat heart cells. The combination of catecholamines and halothane has long been recognized as arrhythmogenic. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the mechanism of this interaction originates at the single cell level. The incidence of spontaneous contractile waves occurring between stimulated beats (interbeat waves), early aftercontractions, and late aftercontractions was measured in rat myocytes exposed to sympathomimetics with and without halothane. Each of these endpoints in single cells has the potential to produce arrhythmias in multicellular preparations. Interbeat waves and late aftercontractions were observed with isoproterenol (1 X 10(-7) M) and norepinephrine (1-3 X 10(-7) M). The incidence of these phenomena was significantly reduced in the presence of 0.30 mM halothane. Early aftercontractions occurred in the presence of isoproterenol (1 X 10(-7) M), norepinephrine (1-3 X 10(-7) M), and phenylephrine (5-10 X 10(-6) M). There was a statistically significant decrease in the incidence of early aftercontractions in the presence of 0.30 mM halothane. These results indicate that the mechanism behind the clinically observed increased arrhythmogenicity of catecholamines with halothane does not arise at the level of single ventricular cells because halothane inhibited sympathomimetic-induced arrhythmogenic activity in this model. The probable mechanisms rather include altered impulse propagation, which might lead to phenomena such as reentry. 
Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and hypertension. Parallels between human disease and rodent models. There is considerable evidence that abnormalities of glucose, insulin, and lipoprotein metabolism occur more frequently in untreated hypertensive patients than in normotensive control subjects. More recently, it has also become apparent that similar metabolic abnormalities occur in rodent models of hypertension. One purpose of this article is to review the experimental data that have led to the above generalizations. The second goal is to address the significance of these findings, which is certainly not clear. For example, it could be argued that the relationship between high blood pressure and the associated metabolic defects is incidental. On the other hand, there is evidence that the changes in glucose, insulin, and lipoprotein metabolism may play a role in the etiology and/or clinical course of patients with high blood pressure. Although it is impossible at this point to definitively choose between these possibilities, an effort is made to marshal the evidence in support of the latter alternative. 
Controlling gastric pH: the impact of newer agents on the critically ill patient. The critically ill patient is at increased risk for developing erosive injury of the stomach, duodenum, and esophagus. To date, the most effective way to prevent and treat this problem is by assuring excellent intensive care support and by reducing gastric acid secretion. The histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) are effective in both prevention and treatment of such gastric mucosal injury. Newer agents are available that have potential for use in this setting, although none have been studied as extensively in critically ill patients as have the H2RAs. These new agents include proglumide, pirenzepine, misoprostol, omeprazole, and somatostatin. To date, only the latter has been extensively studied in critically ill patients. Omeprazole, which suppresses acid very effectively, may be problematic in the critically ill, limited by its oral dosage form, acid-labile properties, and potential drug interactions. 
Experimental hepatocellular carcinoma: MR receptor imaging. Relaxation time measurements and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging were performed in three different animal models of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). After intravenous administration of asialoglycoprotein-directed arabinogalactan-stabilized ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (10 mumol Fe/kg receptor agent), T2 of normal liver decreased from 41.6 msec +/- 1.0 to 19.4 msec +/- 1.7 (P less than .05) in rats. T2 of HCC implanted in normal liver or liver with chronic hepatitis was essentially unchanged. These results were similar to those obtained by administration of a reticuloendothelial cell-directed conventional iron oxide; however, the required dose of receptor agent was lower. MR imaging in a woodchuck model of virally induced HCC confirmed the distribution of the hepatocyte-directed agent to regions of functioning and differentiated hepatocytes but not to malignant tumor tissue. The results suggest that MR receptor imaging may play a role in the differentiation between primary liver tumor and functional liver tissue such as that in normal liver hepatitis or regenerating nodules. 
Longterm followup after treatment of polyarteritis nodosa and Churg-Strauss angiitis with comparison of steroids, plasma exchange and cyclophosphamide to steroids and plasma exchange. A prospective randomized trial of 71 patients. The Cooperative Study Group for Polyarteritis Nodosa We attempted to define the most effective treatment for polyarteritis nodosa and Churg-Strauss angiitis, with a prospective, randomized, multicenter trial of cyclophosphamide in conjunction with corticosteroids and plasma exchanges, compared to corticosteroids and plasma exchanges. A total of 71 patients who fulfilled clinical, histological and/or arteriographic diagnostic criteria were randomly designated to receive either prednisone and plasma exchanges (group A, n = 39) or cyclophosphamide, prednisone and plasma exchanges (group B, n = 32). The end points of the study were control of the disease (recovery and remission) and death. Upon study entry clinical and laboratory features did not differ in the 2 groups. Treatment was stopped in 19 patients because of ineffectiveness in 10 (9 in Group A) and side effects in 9 (8 in Group B). Initial control of the disease was similar in both groups. At 5 years, 27 patients had completely recovered and 14 patients were in clinical remission. The cyclophosphamide-prednisone-plasma exchange association was beneficial in preventing relapses during longterm followup. Nineteen deaths were reported during the followup period. There was no difference between the 10 year cumulative survival rates of the 2 groups (respectively, 72 and 75%). Thus, the association of cyclophosphamide with corticosteroids and plasma exchanges reduced the incidence of relapses and improved the quality of the clinical response to therapy. 
Intensive liver care and management of acute hepatic failure. In describing acute liver failure, the term fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) is used to denote patients with the most rapid progression, normally defined as the onset of encephalopathy within eight weeks of the onset of symptoms. For patients with a slower onset of encephalopathy, ranging from eight weeks to six months after the onset of symptoms, late-onset hepatic failure is the term used to reflect the overlap in clinical features with some patients with FHF. The importance of accurately determining the type of acute liver failure results from increasing evidence of an inverse relationship between the tempo of disease progression and the chances of recovery. Prognosis is also dependent on the underlying etiology. Principles of management are as follows: (1) an accurate recognition of the tempo of the hepatic failure--fulminant, late onset, acute on chronic--and the establishment of a likely etiology; (2) early detection and treatment of complications, particularly metabolic acidosis (early), renal failure, cerebral edema, and infection (late); (3) optimization of conditions for regeneration by maintenance of a near normal metabolic milieu (with removal of toxins by various methods of artificial liver support if necessary); and (4) early consideration of an orthotopic liver transplant for those patients in the poor prognosis group. Variations in the natural history and clinical features of acute liver failure (ALF) have led to a number of different classifications and subgroupings. Knowledge of these is important in relation to the assessment of prognosis and is even more important now that transplantation is a therapeutic option. 
Current management, local management, and survival statistics of high-grade osteosarcoma. Experience in Japan. To report the current management of high-grade osteosarcoma in Japan, the authors studied the results of 55 cases treated in the authors' institutions and data provided by Osaka University (59 cases), Chiba Oncology Group (97), and Sapporo National Hospital (70). Twenty-five of the 55 cases in the authors' series were treated by limb-salvage surgery, 27 by amputation, and the remainder by chemotherapy. In all 226 cases from the three institutes, 106 were treated by amputation and 120 by limb-salvage surgery. Two local recurrences (4%) were found in the authors' series, three in the Osaka series, and eight in the Chiba series. Five-year accumulative survival rates in this study showed some differences, depending upon the institution or upon the protocol employed: in the authors' series it was 60% overall and 68% for a stronger chemotherapy group; in the Osaka series, it was 50% in a mild chemotherapy group and 72% in an intensive chemotherapy group; and in the Sapporo series, it was 36% and 73%, respectively. This study showed that local control of IIB osteosarcoma was successfully achieved by preoperative adjuvant chemotherapy and wide resection, and that an intensive chemotherapeutic combination of high-dose methotrexate, cisplatinum, and doxorubicin is promising. 
Successful epicardial pacing in blunt trauma resuscitation. Epicardial pacing wires were used successfully in the resuscitation of a moribund victim of blunt trauma after fluid resuscitation and chemical measures had failed. Application of these wires to treat the bradycardia of shock should be considered in selected patients when standard measures fail. 
Development of sustained achlorhydria in a patient with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated with omeprazole. Spontaneous remission of gastric acid hypersecretion in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome occurs rarely. This study shows the development of gastric secretory mucosal atrophy resulting in achlorhydria and loss of pepsin secretion in a 63-year-old woman with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Reduced secretion began soon after starting treatment with omeprazole, and achlorhydria became complete 6 months later. The patient remains well with normal endoscopy results and is achlorhydric 4 years after the start of treatment and 34 months after stopping omeprazole. She was not colonized with Helicobacter pylori until 36 months after developing achlorhydria. Serum gastrin has increased from 1000 to between 5000 and 12,500 ng/L (pg/mL), was not suppressible by gastric acidification, and was not associated with G-cell hyperplasia. She also has a normal Schilling test and normal immunoglobulins, and lacks antibodies to parietal cells or H+, K(+)-ATPase. Moderate enterochromaffinlike cell hyperplasia is apparent for the first time on the latest biopsy sample. 
Comparison of oral iodine-131-cellulose and indium-111-DTPA as tracers for colon transit scintigraphy: analysis by colon activity profiles. In 11 normal subjects and 11 patients with a clinical diagnosis of constipation, oral 131I-cellulose and 111In-DTPA were compared simultaneously as tracers for radionuclide colon transit scintigraphy. Visual assessment of the images revealed no differences between tracers. Quantitation was performed using total and segmental percent retention and the derived value of clearance half-time. In addition, profiles of the activity distribution along the length of the colon were generated and the mean position of the activity in the colon calculated. For all indices, the results were similar in both normal subjects and constipated patients when comparing tracers, although marked differences were present between normal subjects and constipated patients for each tracer. Indium-111-DTPA was easy to administer and dosimetry was more acceptable than for 131I-cellulose, especially in constipated patients. It is concluded that 111In-DTPA is the preferred tracer for oral colon transit scintigraphy. 
Quality of life before and after orthotopic hepatic transplantation. Fifty-three nonalcoholic patients were evaluated prior to liver transplantation and again approximately 3 years after surgery using the Sickness Impact Profile and Social Behavior Adjustment Schedule. Test-retest scores reflected significant improvement across all health and psychosocial scales of the Sickness Impact Profile. On the Social Behavior Adjustment Schedule, significant improvement was observed on scales measuring disturbed behavior, social role performance, and burden. Comparisons between groups indicated that the liver transplant patients were still impaired on eight of the Sickness Impact Profile scales after transplant; however, the severity of disturbance was not considered to be clinically significant. No between-group differences were noted on the Social Behavior Adjustment Schedule. These results indicate that liver transplantation is associated with substantial improvement in life quality, although as a group, the patients undergoing this surgery do not recover to the level of functioning demonstrated by normal individuals. 
Legionella myositis. Neuromuscular involvement in patients with legionnaires' disease is common, with serum CK elevations in up to 78% of patients. A few cases have been associated with neuropathy. The mechanism of injury to the neuromuscular system is unknown, but organisms have not previously been found in nerve or muscle. We report the clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic findings in a patient with Legionella myositis and motor neuropathy, the first case to demonstrate direct muscle invasion by the Legionella organism. 
Hemorrhagic venous infarction after excision of an arteriovenous malformation: case report. A case of arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in which postoperative hemorrhagic infarction developed, probably because of occlusion of the former draining veins, is reported. The hemorrhage developed in the temporal lobe 3 days after the initial operation and was located in the immediate vicinity of the site of the AVM. The following findings suggest that the postsurgical hemorrhage probably resulted from a venous thrombosis: 1) no evidence of residual AVM; 2) delayed onset of the hemorrhage, inconsistent with the time course of a hemorrhage developing according to the breakthrough theory or with insufficient hemostasis with a high-pressure afterload; 3) good correlation between the location of the hemorrhage and the occlusion of the draining veins; and 4) multifocal hemorrhage affecting both the gray matter and the subcortical white matter. Postoperative hemorrhagic infarction caused by thrombosis in the draining veins is rare, but it should be considered as a distinct postoperative complication after removal of an AVM. 
Isolation of Jamestown Canyon virus from boreal Aedes mosquitoes from the Sierra Nevada of California. More than 28,000 mosquitoes in four genera were collected from high elevation (greater than or equal to 1,000 m) areas of California during 1988-89 and tested for virus by plaque assay in Vero cells. Viruses were serogrouped by enzyme immunoassay and serotyped by cross-neutralization. Six strains of Jamestown Canyon virus in the California serogroup were isolated from three species of boreal Aedes in the Aedes communis group of the subgenus Ochlerotatus. All isolates were from mosquitoes collected in Alpine County at approximately 2,300 m elevation in the Sierra Nevada. These included one virus from a pool of male Aedes cataphylla collected in immature stages, which is evidence for vertical transmission; four viruses from adult female Ae. communis (sens. lat.); and one virus from adult female Aedes hexodontus. These are the first isolations of viruses from boreal Aedes mosquitoes in California and the first reported isolations of Jamestown Canyon virus from Ae. cataphylla or Ae. hexodontus. 
Abnormal perception of visceral pain in response to gastric distension in chronic idiopathic dyspepsia. The irritable stomach syndrome. Sensory and pressure responses to gastric distension were evaluated in 24 consecutive patients suffering from chronic idiopathic dyspepsia and 20 healthy subjects. A latex balloon was placed in the proximal stomach and inflated by increments of 100 ml of air up to a maximal volume of 800 ml. Symptom response and intragastric pressure-volume curve were recorded during the gradual balloon distension. Thirteen of the 24 patients experienced pain at a distension volume less than or equal to 400 ml of air, but only one of the 20 controls (P less than 0.001). Intragastric pressure-volume curves were similar in patients and controls, and in patients with and without abnormal pain threshold, suggesting that a compliance defect was not the cause of the sensory anomaly. Gastric emptying of solids and liquids was measured in 20 of the 24 patients using a dual isotopic technique; psychological status was also evaluated in 18 patients using the Mini-Mult test. The frequency of the sensory anomaly was not different in patients with (7/14) or without (4/6) gastric stasis, but was lower in patients with (5/13) than in those without psychological disturbances (5/5, P less than 0.01). Thus, a primary visceral sensory anomaly, either alone or in conjunction with motility disturbances, can play an important role in chronic idiopathic dyspepsia and must be taken in account for further therapeutic research. 
Acquired tracheal stenosis in infants and children. Acquired tracheal stenosis in childhood is frequently difficult to manage because of poor healing, infection, and scarring. In a 10-year period, 62 patients (4 weeks to 14 years of age) were treated for acquired tracheal stenosis. The causes of stenosis were endotracheal intubation (44 patients), caustic aspiration (6 patients), recurrent infection (5 patients), bronchoscopic perforation (4 patients), and gastric aspiration (3 patients). The subglottic or upper trachea was involved in 47 patients, mid portion in 8, and distal or carinal area in 7. Fifty children underwent tracheostomy as part of the therapy, and 12 were managed without tracheostomy. Therapy was individualized, frequently sequentially, utilizing rigid or balloon dilatation (20 patients), bronchoscopic electrocoagulation resection (44 patients), steroid injection (48 patients), T tube stent (8 patients), resection with anastomosis (12 patients), cricoid split (3 patients), and rib cartilage graft (12 patients). Most patients required several techniques and repeated procedures to eventually achieve decannulation. Seven patients (11%) died of unrelated causes. Forty-four of 55 surviving patients (80%) are without tracheostomy, although 14 have required continued endotracheal treatment after tracheostomy removal (dilatation, endotracheal resection). This series demonstrates that acquired tracheal stenosis in childhood is a common, difficult problem, but manageable with the use of a variety of techniques. Resection and grafting procedures should be reserved for cases in which less complex modalities fail. 
Labyrinthine ossification after meningitis: its implications for cochlear implantation. Labyrinthine ossification can be found in a high percentage of patients with profound deafness resulting from bacterial meningitis. Radiographic evidence of ossification can be found as early as 2 months after the acute infection, indicating that the intracochlear process probably begins much earlier. If long, intracochlear cochlear implants are to be most successfully used in these patients, an aggressive approach to clinical management following the meningitis should be taken. Illustrative case reports and suggested guidelines for evaluation and treatment are given. 
Limitations of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction complicated by congestive heart failure and cardiogenic shock. As many as one quarter of patients treated with thrombolytic therapy present with congestive heart failure or cardiogenic shock. Although thrombolytic therapy has been shown to limit infarct size, preserve left ventricular ejection fraction and decrease mortality in most subgroups of patients, no apparent benefit has been demonstrated in patients with clinical left ventricular dysfunction. The lack of correlation between ejection fraction and other measurements of left ventricular dysfunction such as exercise time, cardiac output, filling pressures, activation of the neurohumoral system and regional perfusion bed abnormalities may partly explain this paradox. Alternatively, lower perfusion rates, higher reocclusion rates, associated mechanical complications or completed infarction may explain these findings. Preliminary data indicate that emergency coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery improves survival in selected patients with cardiogenic shock. Because these findings suggest that restoration of infarct artery patency is especially important in patients with clinical left ventricular dysfunction, additional studies are needed in these patients to investigate the potential benefit that new thrombolytic strategies, inotropic or vasodilator agents or intraaortic balloon counterpulsation might offer by augmenting coronary blood flow and improving reperfusion rates. Currently, acute mechanical revascularization should be considered for patients who present with congestive heart failure associated with hypotension or tachycardia and for patients with cardiogenic shock. 
Effects of asymptomatic ischemia on long-term prognosis in chronic stable coronary disease. BACKGROUND. Ischemia on ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring has been shown to adversely affect short-term prognoses in patients with unstable angina, after myocardial infarction, and with chronic stable angina. METHODS AND RESULTS. In this long-term study, we followed 138 patients (mean age, 59 +/- 9 years) with chronic stable angina and positive exercise tests for cardiac events (e.g. death, myocardial infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, or coronary artery bypass graft surgery). In 105 patients, ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring was performed after all antianginal medication was withheld for 48 hours. In 26 patients, the diagnostic tests were repeated while on their usual medication. In addition to the 105 patients, 33 patients had their monitoring performed only while on their usual medication. During 37 +/- 17 months of follow-up, there were nine deaths, nine myocardial infarctions, and 35 revascularization procedures. In patients monitored off medication, Cox survival analysis showed that the occurrence of ischemia on electrocardiographic monitoring was the most significant predictor of death and myocardial infarction in the subsequent 2 years (p = 0.02) and all adverse events for 5 years (p = 0.009). Patients who were monitored on medication and did not have ischemia (n = 18) appeared to have more adverse events than patients who had no ischemia while being monitored off medication (n = 43). CONCLUSIONS. Asymptomatic ischemia on ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in patients with stable angina predicts death and myocardial infarction for 2 years and all adverse events for 5 years. Monitoring performed while on medication may show no ischemia; however, this may not indicate low risk of future coronary events. 
Incidence of left ventricular thrombi formation after thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, heparin, and aspirin in patients with acute myocardial infarction. To evaluate the prevalence of left ventricular thrombi after thrombolytic therapy, 144 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were prospectively studied with two-dimensional echocardiography 1 and 8 days after admission. Patients were treated 2.1 +/- 0.8 hours after the onset of symptoms. Thrombolytic protocol included 120 mg of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA), 5000 IU of heparin, followed by a continuous infusion of 25,000 IU/24 hours for at least 5 days, and 250 mg of aspirin a day. Seventy-six patients had AMI of the anterior wall; of these, seven (9.2%) developed left ventricular thrombi. The remaining 68 patients had infarctions of the inferior wall; of these, two (2.9%) developed left ventricular thrombi. Since anterior wall infarction not treated with thrombolytic therapy is associated with a 25% to 40% rate of left ventricular thrombi, we conclude that early thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA, heparin, and aspirin reduces the formation of left ventricular thrombus in AMI of the anterior wall. Apical left ventricular thrombi developed more frequently in patients with previous infarctions compared with those without (4 of 17 versus 4 of 127, p = 0.01). During the 12-month follow-up period, no patient in the study had manifestations of peripheral emboli. 
Auriculotemporal syndrome following the preauricular approach to temporomandibular joint surgery. Forty-seven joints in 28 patients were examined 4 months to 10 years after temporomandibular joint (TMJ) surgery via a modified preauricular approach. Many patients had undergone multiple procedures. None of the patients had any subjective or objective evidence of auriculotemporal syndrome (ATS), although patients in previous studies with more extensive incisions have demonstrated ATS. It was concluded that ATS is an unlikely complication following TMJ surgery. A small incision without an oblique superior extension may further reduce the risk. 
Scanning electron microscopic study of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The study has been carried out on biopsies taken from four patients affected by squamous cell carcinoma and four patients affected by undifferentiated carcinoma of nasopharyngeal type (UCNT). Three healthy volunteers have served as controls. All the specimens have been studied by SEM. The neoplastic conditions cause obvious alterations both in the mucosal surface and in the morphology of the cellular apex. 
Human alveolar macrophage antibacterial activity in the alcoholic lung. Alcoholic individuals are predisposed to respiratory infections. However, mechanisms of perturbations leading to increased susceptibility to lung infections of individuals with alcoholic liver cirrhosis (ALC) are not fully understood. We studied the antibacterial activity and oxidant generation (before and after stimulation by phorbol myristate acetate or opsonized zymosan) of alveolar macrophages from 16 patients with ALC. Our results were compared with those obtained from 12 healthy control subjects, from 8 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), and from 8 alcoholic individuals without cirrhosis. All were nonsmokers, had normal chest X-rays, and did not present evidence of lung infection 3 months before. The total number of cells recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage did not significantly differ between control subjects and patients. The cellular viability of alveolar macrophages (trypan blue exclusion) was greater than 90% in all cases. The antibacterial activity of alveolar macrophages versus Staphylococcus aureus was severely impaired in ALC (-21 +/- 8.2%) whereas it was normal in PBC (52 +/- 4.2%), in alcoholic subjects (44.6 +/- 5.4%), and in control subjects (60 +/- 5.5%). The same pattern of results was observed versus Escherichia coli (-47.7 +/- 10,28 +/- 8,28 +/- 12, and 29 +/- 8.5%, respectively). Previous incubation of normal alveolar macrophages with serum or BAL fluid from ALC patients or with normal serum or normal BAL fluid did not result in a significant decrease in antibacterial activity of normal alveolar macrophages. To distinguish ingested bacteria from adherent extracellular bacteria, cells that had been incubated with bacteria for 90 min were then incubated with lysostaphin (1 microgram/ml). 
The occurrence of epilepsy and febrile seizures in Virginian and Norwegian twins. Twin studies provide an efficient method for examining the importance of genetic and environmental factors in the etiology of disorders such as epilepsy. Population-based twin registries are especially valuable for studies of this type since effects of reporting and self-selection biases on the resulting data are minimized. Among 14,352 twin pairs contained in the Virginia and Norwegian twin panels for whom questionnaire information was available, there was a history of epilepsy in one or both members of 286 pairs; febrile seizures were reported in 257 pairs. Analyses of questionnaire data revealed no significant differences in concordance rates between Virginian and Norwegian twins for either epilepsy or febrile seizures. Probandwise concordance rates for epilepsy were 0.19 in monozygotic twins and 0.07 in dizygotic twins. Analogous rates for febrile seizures were 0.33 (monozygotic) and 0.11 (dizygotic). These results provide further evidence that genetic factors do have a role in the expression of epilepsy and febrile seizures. 
Effects of acetylsalicylic acid on renal function in patients with chronic heart failure. PURPOSE: We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine whether the administration of acetylsalicylic acid has adverse effects on renal function in patients with moderate chronic congestive heart failure with and without stimulation of the renin system. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty patients were randomly assigned to one of the following four groups: Group 1, low sodium diet and placebo; Group 2, low sodium diet and acetylsalicylic acid; Group 3, normal sodium diet and placebo; or Group 4, normal sodium diet and acetylsalicylic acid. Patients were studied over 8 days. After Day 5, patients in Groups 2 and 4 received acetylsalicylic acid (500 mg three times a day). The low sodium diet consisted of 13.6 mmol of sodium per day and the normal sodium diet consisted of 136 mmol of sodium per day. RESULTS: The low sodium diet resulted in a highly significant increase in the plasma renin (2p = 0.0001), aldosterone (2p = 0.0006), and urinary prostaglandin E2 (2p = 0.01) concentrations and the renal potassium excretion (2p = 0.0009), whereas renal sodium excretion was significantly reduced (2p = 0.0001). Severe sodium depletion led to a reduction of the glomerular filtration rate (2p = 0.007), which was independent from cyclooxygenase inhibition. In patients on the low sodium diet, acetylsalicylic acid reduced the elevated urinary prostaglandin E2 levels to normal values without changing the renal sodium excretion rate. In patients with a normal sodium intake, acetylsalicylic acid significantly reduced the renal sodium excretion rate by 29% (2p = 0.04). CONCLUSION: We conclude that severe sodium depletion has adverse effects on kidney function in patients with heart failure due to a reduction in the glomerular filtration rate. Administration of acetylsalicylic acid in doses that reduce the synthesis of renal prostaglandin E2 significantly reduces renal sodium excretion. 
Cardiovascular and catecholamine responses to head-up tilt in the diagnosis of recurrent unexplained syncope in elderly patients. To increase understanding of the mechanisms causing syncope in patients over the age of 60, hemodynamic and hormonal responses to 60 minutes of 60 degree head-up tilt were examined in 10 patients with recurrent syncope of unknown origin and five controls with no history of syncope. Nine of 10 patients and all five controls experienced orthostatic intolerance on the tilt table. Syncope or pre-syncope occurred later in controls than in those syncope patients who had exact reproduction of their clinical symptoms (median time 52 versus 22 minutes, P = 0.05). Three different mechanisms of orthostatic intolerance were identified in the 14 subjects: (1) vasovagal syncope, n = 9 (sudden hypotension +/- bradycardia); (2) dysautonomic syncope, n = 3 (immediate and gradual parallel declines in both systolic and diastolic pressures with blunted increase in heart rate); (3) psychogenic or vestibular reaction, n = 2 (orthostatic intolerance without hemodynamic changes). Vasovagal syncope patients showed a significant increase in plasma norepinephrine from baseline to maximum level during tilt (100 +/- 39% increase, P = 0.03) and a subsequent decrease at the time of syncope (30 +/- 5% decrease, P = 0.01), while plasma epinephrine increased markedly from baseline to the time of syncope (827 +/- 154% increase, P = 0.0003). Dysautonomic syncope patients had lower supine levels of norepinephrine compared to vasovagal syncope patients (182 +/- 30 versus 614 +/- 146 pg/mL, P = 0.008) and no significant change in norepinephrine over time; epinephrine levels increased significantly less than in vasovagal patients (net change 38 +/- 8 versus 189 +/- 56 pg/mL, P = 0.008). 
DuP 753 increases survival in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats fed a high sodium diet. We studied the effects of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist, DuP 753, on blood pressure, body weight, plasma renin activity, sodium excretion, and mortality in male stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRsp) fed a 4% NaCl diet for 12 weeks. The rise in blood pressure, due to high sodium intake, was blunted in the first 8 weeks of the study in the DuP 753-treated group; however, it started slowly to rise in the following weeks. In the untreated group, blood pressure rose steadily and it was significantly higher than that of the treated group during the whole experimental period. DuP 753-treated rats gained weight continuously during the study in contrast to the untreated group, where weight gain was arrested after 4 weeks. Plasma renin activity rose significantly after 4 weeks of treatment with DuP 753; by week 6 its values returned to baseline values and remained at these lower values until week 12. In the untreated group, plasma renin activity was not suppressed by high sodium intake after 4 weeks; it continued to rise and it was significantly elevated by 8 and 12 weeks. Survival at 12 weeks was 84% in DuP 753-treated group and 26% in the untreated group. The data demonstrate that DuP 753 decreased mortality and dramatically blunted the blood pressure rise in SHRsp fed a high sodium diet. 
Cardiac tamponade following coronary arterial rupture during coronary angioplasty. We describe a patient in whom percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was complicated by rupture of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) with pericardial tamponade. The outcome was favorable with drastic intervention which included: occlusion of the bleeding vessel with the PTCA balloon, pericardiocentesis, and ligation of the vessel without the need of aortocoronary bypass graft. 
Neurocutaneous melanosis: definition and review of the literature. Neurocutaneous melanosis is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of large or multiple congenital melanocytic nevi and benign or malignant pigment cell tumors of the leptomeninges. The syndrome is thought to represent an error in the morphogenesis of the embryonal neuroectoderm. We review 39 reported cases of neurocutaneous melanosis and propose revised criteria for diagnosis. Most patients with neurocutaneous melanosis presented in the first 2 years of life with neurologic manifestations of increased intracranial pressure, mass lesions, or spinal cord compression. Leptomeningeal melanoma was present in 62% of the cases, but even in the absence of melanoma, symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis had an extremely poor prognosis. Useful diagnostic procedures include cerebrospinal fluid cytology and magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium contrast. Patients may be aided by palliative measures such as shunt placement to reduce intracranial pressure. Dermatologists in their follow-up of patients with large or multiple congenital melanocytic nevi should be aware of this condition, to aid in prompt diagnosis and because the treatment of cutaneous lesions may be altered in the presence of symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis. 
Bilateral central retinal vein occlusion as an initial manifestation of pseudotumor cerebri. Pseudotumor cerebri, or benign intracranial hypertension, is known to produce visual symptoms. Central retinal vein occlusion has been linked with pseudotumor cerebri but rarely as an initial manifestation. We describe a 46-year-old patient--who was obese and mildly hypertensive with bilateral central retinal vein occlusions--who was subsequently diagnosed as having pseudotumor cerebri. In patients with simultaneous bilateral central retinal vein occlusions, unusual underlying systemic conditions such as pseudotumor cerebri should be considered in the diagnostic evaluation. 
Primary sclerosing cholangitis: surgical options, prognostic variables and outcome. The natural history of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is poorly defined and its management remains controversial. Forty-eight symptomatic patients (median age 39 years, range 8-67 years; 30 male) with PSC were reviewed retrospectively. Thirty patients had inflammatory bowel disease. Four patients (8 per cent) developed or had an associated malignancy. Twenty-one (44 per cent) died; overall 5 year actuarial survival was 30 per cent. Twenty-three patients had 27 non-transplant related biliary operations (16 patients specifically for PSC) of whom 12 died. Serum bilirubin was the only parameter to improve after biliary surgery. Seventeen patients (35 per cent) underwent orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) of whom nine are currently alive (1 year projected survival of 55 per cent). Previous biliary surgery correlated with a poor outcome (P less than 0.0001) after OLT. Being male, presence of cirrhosis, duration of symptomatic disease (greater than 3 years) and a serum bilirubin level greater than 100 mumol/l at presentation, were independently associated with a poor outcome (P less than 0.05). These data provide evidence that PSC is a progressive disease and conventional surgical options have little influence on the outcome. Previous biliary surgery adversely affects outcome following OLT. For progressive liver disease, liver transplantation should be considered the treatment of choice. 
Total hip arthroplasty. The role of antiinflammatory medications in the prevention of heterotopic ossification. Postoperative prophylaxis with antiinflammatory medications, primarily indomethacin, is extremely effective in preventing the severest degrees of heterotopic ossification (HO) after a total hip arthroplasty (THA) and the recurrence of excised HO developed after a previous hip surgery. Prophylaxis with indomethacin should be given in 25-mg doses three times daily for at least three weeks, starting on the first postoperative morning. However, a shorter treatment period may be equally effective in preventing the severest degrees of HO, and a postoperative delay of five days before the initiation of prophylaxis does not seem to be followed by the development of severe HO. As evaluated one year after surgery, treatment with antiinflammatory medications in the immediate postoperative weeks did not increase the incidence of implant-bone interface radiolucencies, aseptic loosening, or revisions in cemented or cementless THAs when compared with cases that did not have postoperative treatment. However, although no major complications have been reported regarding the use of antiinflammatory medications in the prevention of HO after THA, orthopedic surgeons prescribing such treatment should be aware of their contraindications as well as early and late side effects. Since several antiinflammatory agents are reported to be effective in preventing HO, future reports dealing with HO after THA should always include information about the postoperative antiinflammatory treatment used. 
T-cell receptor tau delta +/CD3+4-8-T- cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias: a distinct subgroup of leukemias in children. A report of five cases. In a 10-year study of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALL) in children, we have identified five cases expressing the T-cell receptor tau delta (TCR tau delta). The incidence (26%) of TCR tau delta+T-cell leukemias in our material was high. Clinically, the TCR tau delta+ leukemias represented a distinct subgroup of T-cell leukemias. Mean age at onset of disease, 1.8 years, was remarkably low for mature T-cell leukemias. White blood cell counts were high, lymph node enlargements were discrete, and no mediastinal tumors were seen. Four of five TCR tau delta+ leukemias carried rearrangements of the C tau 2 gene, and transcribed the T-early alpha genetic element. 
Detection of micrometastatic tumor cells in bone marrow of breast carcinoma patients. To determine the incidence and clinical significance of micrometastases in the bone marrow of breast carcinoma patients, we performed an immunoalkaline phosphatase assay using anticytokeratin (AE1, AE3, MAK-6) and antiepithelial (113F1, 260F9, 317G5) antibodies on the bone marrow aspirates of 71 stage IV disease patients with either recurrent regional or distant metastases. Although we detected tumor cells within the bone marrow of 38% of these patients with this assay, no significant correlation was seen with patient's age, menopausal status, bone scan, bone marrow core histology, response to induction chemotherapy, number of metastatic sites, dominant site of metastasis, or subsequent clinical outcome. The clinical parameters that were associated with improved survival were one dominant site of metastatic disease and regional soft tissue recurrence without distant disease. 
Wegener's granulomatosis with renal involvement: patient survival and correlations between initial renal function, renal histology, therapy and renal outcome. Patient survival and renal outcome were followed in 25 patients with biopsy confirmed Wegener's granulomatosis and renal involvement. Fourteen out of 25 patients required dialysis on admission, 11/25 patients did not. All patients were treated with a novel protocol comprising methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide. The median follow-up observation was 36 months (12-113 months). With the exception of 1 patient (who died from causes not related to Wegener's granulomatosis) all patients are alive. Among the patients initially requiring dialysis (n = 14) 4 are in terminal renal failure after 0, 7, 21 and 38 months respectively. In the nondialysis group (n = 11) only 1 patient subsequently required chronic dialysis 30 months after clinical admission. Renal failure was due to non-compliance with immunosuppressive therapy in at least 2 patients. Percentage of obsolescent glomeruli and the degree of tubulointerstitial lesions, but not active glomerular lesions (crescents, necroses) predicted renal outcome. The major cause of renal functional impairment was relapse of Wegener's granulomatosis usually within 2 years after clinical remission. Therefore prolonged treatment with cyclophosphamide for at least 2 years after clinical remission is recommended. Two patients with initially negative immunohistology had a second renal biopsy which revealed de novo appearance of mesangial IgA deposits. 
Prevention and treatment of pregnancy-associated hypertension: what have we learned in the last 10 years? High blood pressure (BP) complicates approximately 10% of all pregnancies. Hypertension in pregnancy falls into four categories: (1) preeclampsia-eclampsia, (2) chronic hypertension of whatever cause, (3) preeclampsia-eclampsia superimposed to chronic hypertension or renal disease, and (4) transient or late hypertension (gestational hypertension). Preeclampsia, the association of hypertension, proteinuria, and edema, accounts for more than 50% of all the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and is a major cause of fetal and maternal morbidity and mortality. Unfortunately, distinguishing between preeclampsia and other causes of hypertension on clinical grounds can be difficult because of the lack of specific tests for differential diagnosis. Increased vascular resistance has been claimed as the primary cause of preeclampsia; however, a variable hemodynamic profile with relatively high cardiac outputs, normal filling pressures, and inappropriately high systemic vascular resistances is now reported by most investigators. Imbalance between vasodilator and vasoconstrictor eicosanoids may account for platelet activation and increased responsiveness to pressor peptides. Altered prostacyclin (PGI2) to thromboxane A2 (TxA2) ratio in maternal uteroplacental vascular bed may favor local platelet activation and vasoconstriction contributing to placental insufficiency and fetal distress. Alternatively, recent evidence seems to suggest that fetal umbilical placental circulation may be the site of the primary vascular injury. Whether low-dose aspirin prevents preeclampsia because it inhibits the excessive maternal TxA2 or whether the partial inhibition of fetal TxA2 is also of therapeutic value remains to be established. Treatment of severe hypertension in pregnancy is probably important to prevent cardiac failure or cerebrovascular accidents in the mother. The need for pharmacological therapy of mild to moderate hypertension is still debated, since no formal studies are available to clarify whether pharmacological treatment in such instances effectively reduces maternal or fetal risk. For the treatment of preeclampsia, hydralazine and nifedipine may be used when delivery is not applicable. Labetalol and diazoxide are effective for hypertensive emergencies. Life-threatening hypertension that does not respond to more conventional therapy is an indication for the use of sodium nitroprusside. For chronic hypertension, alpha-methyldopa remains the treatment of choice; if ineffective, hydralazine or beta-blockers are suitable. Effectiveness and safety of other molecules remain elusive. 
Air enema for diagnosis and reduction of intussusception: clinical experience and pressure correlates. Air enema was used for exclusion, diagnosis, initial movement, and complete reduction of intussusception in 186 pediatric patients. Average pressure needed for initial movement of intussusception was 56.5 mm Hg; average maximum pressure of 97.8 mm Hg was required for complete reduction. Average fluoroscopy time required for intussusception reduction was 94.8 seconds; an average of 41.8 seconds was required to exclude intussusception. Intussusception was diagnosed in 75 patients, and reduction was accomplished in 65 (87%). Of 100 consecutive patients that underwent hydrostatic reduction of intussusception at the authors' institution, reduction was successful in 55. Compared with hydrostatic enema, air enema involves shorter fluoroscopy time and lower radiation dose to the patient. Air enema is safe and effective for diagnosis and treatment of intussusception in infants and children and has replaced hydrostatic enema for such procedures at the authors' institution. 
A transformation-incompetent, nuclear antigen 2-deleted Epstein-Barr virus associated with replicative infection. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) obtained directly from the oropharynx was used to detect viral DNA deleted for the EBV nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA2)-encoding gene that is essential for lymphocyte transformation. By polymerase chain reaction analysis, the deletion was found in virus from 5 of 33 healthy adult donors and 11 of 12 patients with concurrent human immunodeficiency virus infection. Lymphoblastoid cell lines that produce standard transforming EBV also harbored EBNA2-deleted virus in cells permissive of EBV replication. In vitro infectivity studies indicated that the DNA is packaged and transmissible, with biologic properties similar to those of a laboratory mutant, P3HR-1, which also lacks the EBNA2 gene. These findings, obtained from productively infected cell systems, provide evidence for the existence in nature of a transformation-incompetent EBV variant that may facilitate EBV persistence and the emergence of reactivation diseases. 
Quantitative evaluation of parenchymal liver cell volume and total hepatocyte number in cirrhotic patients. A simple morphometrical method was developed using a color image analyzing system, which allowed quantitative evaluation of parenchymal liver cell volume and total hepatocyte number in cirrhotic patients. With this method, we estimated these values in 29 cirrhotic patients who underwent hepatic resection (nine cases) or nonshunting operation (20 cases). Liver volume, calculated from computed tomographic images, was 976 +/- 196 cm3 (range = 602 to 1,376 cm3); the parenchymal cell volume ratio, obtained based on liver histological appearance with silver stain, was 0.665 +/- 0.092 (range = 0.510 to 0.881); and the parenchymal cell volume, calculated by multiplying the liver volume with the parenchymal cell volume ratio, was 645 +/- 140 cm3 (range = 403 to 936 cm3). The total hepatocyte number obtained in a similar manner using hematoxylin-stained specimens was 1.72 +/- 0.56 x 10(11) (range = 0.74 to 2.94 x 10(11)). The validity and applicability of the method is discussed, and the data are compared with those reported in other studies. 
K-edge digital subtraction arthrography of the painful hip prosthesis: a feasibility study. K-edge energy subtraction radiography is a method for detecting the presence of iodinated contrast material by subtracting two digital radiographs produced by X-ray beams with energies above and below the iodine K edge. We performed a feasibility study on the application of K-edge energy digital subtraction arthrography (KEDSA) to painful hip prostheses. During arthrography, loosening of the prosthesis is implied if contrast material is seen dissecting around the prosthesis, an often difficult detection task because of adjacent prosthesis metal or cement. In conventional arthrography a preliminary mask image is thus used from which films obtained after injection of iodinated contrast material are subtracted. Movement by the patient during this process may preclude subsequent subtraction. With KEDSA, since multiple image pairs may be obtained after the injection of contrast material, the problem of patient motion is virtually eliminated. A conventional X-ray tube operating between 55 and 65 kVp was alternately filtered by iodine and cerium filters to produce the KEDSA images. The apparatus was capable of producing a subtracted image within 3 sec. The technique was applied to phantoms and to six patients immediately after hip arthrography that had been positive for prosthesis loosening. Although of lower spatial resolution, the KEDSA images were, in all cases, positive for loosening in a pattern consistent with the conventional arthrographic images. KEDSA was shown to be successful in detecting extraarticular contrast material. During a single study, subtraction in various imaging planes as well as postexercise subtraction imaging can be accomplished-techniques not heretofore possible in routine subtraction arthrography. 
Colorectal ornithine decarboxylase activity in human mucosa and tumors: elevation of enzymatic activity in distal mucosa. To examine the value of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) assay as a biological marker of potential malignancy in large bowel, we harvested 43 colorectal carcinoma, 7 adenoma, 6 polyps, and 77 normal-appearing mucosa at surgery from patients with colorectal carcinoma. In addition, 13 normal rectal mucosa were obtained at biopsy from patients with benign diseases or diseases unrelated to colorectal carcinoma as normal control. ODC activity was significantly higher in polyps and adenocarcinomas than in normal-appearing mucosa from patients with colorectal carcinoma. ODC activity in normal-appearing mucosa varied throughout the large intestine, with significantly higher activities in the distal segment of the large bowel. The higher ODC activity detected in the sigmoid colon and rectum correlates with the larger incidence of tumor development in this region of the large bowel. This observation needs to be taken into consideration when ODC activities of the colorectal mucosa are measured as biological markers of potential malignancies. 
Cerebral hemodynamic effects of fluid resuscitation in the presence of an experimental intracranial mass. We addressed the impact on intracranial pressure (ICP) of posthemorrhage fluid resuscitation with a protocol in which additional fluid was infused to maintain a stable cardiac output after an initial bolus of fluid was infused. Anesthetized, mechanically ventilated mongrel dogs (n = 27) underwent a 30-minute interval of hemorrhagic shock (mean arterial pressure = 55 mm Hg) during which inflation of a subdural balloon maintained ICP at 15 mm Hg. After shock, animals were resuscitated with one of four randomly assigned fluids: (1) slightly hypotonic crystalloid (Na+, 125 mEq.L-1; designated Na-125); (2) hypertonic crystalloid (Na+, 250 mEq.L-1; designated Na-250); (3) slightly hypotonic crystalloid plus 10% pentastarch (Na-125P); or (4) hypertonic crystalloid plus 10% pentastarch (Na-250P). Supplemental fluid was administered as needed to maintain cardiac output comparable to baseline values. ICP increased progressively in all fluid groups during resuscitation. Cerebral blood flow, measured by the cerebral venous outflow method, increased immediately after resuscitation and then declined steadily over time in all groups. Fluids containing pentastarch maintained hemodynamic stability with minimal supplementation throughout most of the postresuscitation period, compared with crystalloid alone, which required substantial additional volume. If decreased intracranial compliance and hemorrhage are combined, ongoing resuscitation is associated with significantly increased ICP and significantly decreased cerebral blood flow, independent of the tonicity and oncotic pressure of the infused fluid. 
Abdominal muscle activity during CO2 rebreathing in sleeping neonates. Comparison of the abdominal muscle response to CO2 rebreathing in rapid-eye-movement (REM) and non-REM (NREM) sleep was performed in healthy premature infants near full term. Eight subjects were studied at a postconceptional age of 40 +/- 1.6 (SD) wk (range 38-43 wk) during spontaneous sleep. Sleep stages were defined on the basis of electrophysiological and behavioral criteria, and diaphragmatic and abdominal muscle electromyographic activity was recorded by cutaneous electrodes. The responses to CO2 were measured by a modified Read rebreathing technique. The minute ventilation and diaphragmatic and abdominal muscle electromyographic activities were calculated and plotted against end-tidal CO2 partial pressure. Both the ventilatory and diaphragmatic muscle responses to CO2 decreased from NREM to REM sleep (P less than 0.05). Abdominal muscles were forcefully recruited in response to CO2 rebreathing during NREM sleep. In REM sleep, abdominal muscle response to CO2 was virtually absent or decreased compared with NREM sleep (P less than 0.05). We conclude that 1) the abdominal muscles are recruited during NREM sleep in response to CO2 rebreathing in healthy premature infants near full term and 2) the abdominal muscle recruitment is inhibited during REM sleep compared with NREM sleep, and this REM sleep-related inhibition probably contributes to the decrease in the ventilatory response to CO2 rebreathing in REM sleep. 
Solvent-associated olfactory dysfunction: not a predictor of deficits in learning and memory. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to evaluate associations between olfactory dysfunction and aberrations in learning and memory after chronic occupational exposure to mixed hydrocarbon solvents. METHOD: This was a cross-sectional, epidemiologic study of 187 paint manufacturing workers. The authors administered quantitative tests of olfactory function (the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test) and neurobehavioral function (eight computer- and examiner-administered tests of learning and memory) to workers for whom detailed information was available on lifetime occupational exposure to solvents. RESULTS: Olfactory function test scores were positively correlated with performance on seven of eight of the tests of learning and memory in bivariate analyses. After adjustment for important confounding variables (i.e., age, vocabulary score, and cumulative exposure to hydrocarbon solvents) with multiple linear regression, olfactory function scores predicted performance only on the Wechsler Memory Scale Delayed Logical Memory test. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the data did not reveal that olfactory dysfunction was correlated with decrements in various memory functions. 
Urinary pepsinogen I as a tumor marker of stomach cancer after total gastrectomy. The possibility that urinary pepsinogen I is a tumor marker of stomach cancer after total gastrectomy was examined. To decide the cutoff level of urinary pepsinogen I after total gastrectomy, urine samples from 15 patients who had undergone total gastrectomy for stomach cancer in the early or advanced stages and had been free from recurrence for more than 5 years were examined by pepsinogen I-specific radioimmunoassay. The mean concentration of urinary pepsinogen I was 17.5 +/- 7.4 ng/ml and the cutoff level of urinary pepsinogen after total gastrectomy was set at 32 ng/ml (mean + 2 SD). Twenty-two of 74 cases who had undergone total gastrectomy for stomach cancer were regarded as positive. And 20 of these 22 positive cases had definite clinical signs of recurrence of stomach cancer. There were only two false-positive cases. These results suggest that urinary pepsinogen I will be an useful tumor marker in detecting the recurrence of stomach cancer after total gastrectomy. 
Management of middle third facial fractures. In the management of fractures of the middle third of the face, it should be apparent to the surgeon that the more sophisticated fixation techniques carry increased liability, and their incorrect and imprecise application mandates identification and correction of any contributing factors if malunion is to be avoided. A less sophisticated stabilization technique that, by convention, generally is reliable, less complicated, less expensive, and less intimidating may be preferred. Given the complexity and diversity of midfacial injuries and the variety of available fixation and stabilization techniques, it is unlikely that any one method precisely suits every situation. 
Radiologic features of closed loop obstruction: analysis of 25 confirmed cases. The obstruction of a segment of bowel at two points results in a closed loop obstruction. Progression to strangulation is not an invariable component of this entity when surgical intervention is delayed. Enteroclysis is increasingly being used to evaluate obstruction of the small intestine. The authors retrospectively analyzed 25 surgically confirmed cases of closed loop obstruction and noted four enteroclysis features suggestive of the diagnosis: (a) crossing defects obstructing two segments of a loop of bowel secondary to dense adhesive bands (14 patients), (b) focal fixation of two limbs or twisting of the folds at the point of obstruction suggestive of volvulus (three patients), (c) abdominal wall herniation with obstruction (six patients), and (d) focal intraperitoneal segregation of a loop of bowel with tight obstruction suggestive of internal herniation (two patients). Recognition of the different patterns allows prompt preoperative radiologic diagnosis prior to strangulation. 
Effect of physiologic hyperinsulinemia on glucose and lipid metabolism in cirrhosis. Insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity were evaluated in eight clinically stable cirrhotic patients and in 12 controls. OGTT was normal in cirrhotics but plasma insulin response was increased approximately twofold compared with controls. Subjects received a three-step (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 mU/kg.min) euglycemic insulin clamp with indirect calorimetry, [6-3H]-glucose, and [1-14C]-palmitate. During the two highest insulin infusion steps glucose uptake was impaired (3.33 +/- 0.31 vs. 5.06 +/- 0.40 mg/kg.min, P less than 0.01, and 6.09 +/- 0.50 vs. 7.95 +/- 0.52 mg/kg.min, P less than 0.01). Stimulation of glucose oxidation by insulin was normal; in contrast, nonoxidative glucose disposal (i.e., glycogen synthesis) was markedly reduced. Fasting (r = -0.553, P less than 0.01) and glucose-stimulated (r = -0.592, P less than 0.01) plasma insulin concentration correlated inversely with the severity of insulin resistance. Basal hepatic glucose production was normal in cirrhotics and suppressed normally with insulin. In postabsorptive state, plasma FFA conc (933 +/- 42 vs. 711 +/- 44 mumol/liter, P less than 0.01) and FFA turnover (9.08 +/- 1.20 vs. 6.03 +/- 0.53 mumol/kg.min, P less than 0.01) were elevated in cirrhotics despite basal hyperinsulinemia; basal FFA oxidation was similar in cirrhotic and control subjects. With low-dose insulin infusion, plasma FFA oxidation and turnover failed to suppress normally in cirrhotics. During the two higher insulin infusion steps, all parameters of FFA metabolism suppressed normally. In summary, stable cirrhotic patients with normal glucose tolerance exhibit marked insulin resistance secondary to the impaired nonoxidative glucose disposal. Our results suggest that chronic hyperinsulinism may be responsible for the insulin resistance observed in cirrhosis. 
Intravascular stents in the management of superior vena cava syndrome. Superior vena cava syndrome can be effectively palliated with the use of intravascular stents. Adjunctive modalities which may be utilized prior to stent placement are thrombolytic therapy and balloon angioplasty. Six patients with an underlying malignancy were treated with these modalities. Complete resolution of symptoms occurred in five patients, and partial resolution occurred in the sixth. Two of the patients who had initial, complete resolution of symptoms had recurrences. One involved rethrombosis of the superior vena cava which occurred twice and required percutaneous thrombectomy, and the second involved restenosis requiring a percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the SVC just distal to the stent. Both of these patients with second procedures, again, had complete resolution of symptoms. Intravascular stents are a valuable additional treatment of superior vena cava syndrome. 
Regional cerebral blood flow and cognitive function in patients with chronic liver disease. Subtle impairments of cognitive function may be an important cause of occupational and psychosocial morbidity in patients with chronic liver disease. Correlation of structural brain abnormalities with cognitive deficits has yielded inconsistent results. 10 patients with cirrhotic liver disease were compared with 10 age, education, and intelligence matched control subjects. Neuropsychological assessment revealed significant overall cognitive impairments in cirrhotic patients compared with controls (p = 0.02). Regional cerebral blood flow was measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPET or SPECT) and showed increased uptake of radiotracer in the right and left posterior parts of the basal ganglia and right occipital lobe, together with reduced uptake in the right anterior cingulate region. The degree of cognitive impairment was directly correlated with functional abnormalities in the basal ganglia and limbic cortex (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that impaired cognitive status may be associated with abnormalities of regional brain function in patients with chronic liver disease. Since these deficits are clinically inapparent, our findings have important implications for identification and management of patients with chronic liver disease. 
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome with disseminated toxoplasmosis presenting as an acute pulmonary and gastrointestinal illness. Encephalitis due to the protozoan Toxoplasma gondii has emerged as a common cause of central nervous system disease in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Extraneural disease is less common and more difficult to diagnose. We report a case of widely disseminated toxoplasmosis that presented as acute gastrointestinal and pulmonary disease in a patient without a prior diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The diagnosis of toxoplasmosis was made only at autopsy. Antemortem diagnosis of disseminated T gondii infection requires a high degree of clinical suspicion and the prompt utilization of appropriate diagnostic testing. Since toxoplasmosis is a potentially treatable opportunistic infection, diagnosis allows the swift institution of anti-Toxoplasma therapy. 
Recurrent severe traumatic brain injury. Series of six cases. Six of 141 persons treated for severe traumatic brain injury at the Medical College of Virginia were found to have a history of similar previous injury. These cases are presented in the context of the phenomenon of recurrent severe traumatic brain injury, which has received no systematic attention in epidemiologic studies of trauma. 
The incidence of recurrence and hypothyroidism following treatment with antithyroid drugs, surgery or radioiodine in all patients with thyrotoxicosis in Malmo during the period 1970-1974. The incidence of recurrence and of hypothyroidism was determined in all new patients treated for thyrotoxicosis during the period 1970-1974 in an unselected, well-defined urban population. A total of 309 patients were followed up for a median time period of 108 (1-192) months. There was a cumulative incidence of 51% recurrence in patients who were treated with antithyroid drugs for Graves' thyrotoxicosis, whereas after surgery or radioiodine treatment there were few recurrences, but 32% and 78% cumulative incidences of hypothyroidism. There were no recurrences after surgery or radioiodine treatment in patients with toxic multinodular goitre or solitary toxic adenoma, but 29% and 40% cumulative incidences of hypothyroidism following radioiodine treatment. Late hypothyroidism occurred after surgery for Graves' thyrotoxicosis, and in all groups treated with radioiodine. Thus it is advisable that all patients with Graves' thyrotoxicosis, regardless of treatment, and all patients with toxic multinodular goitre or solitary toxic adenoma treated with radioiodine, should be followed up for many years, and probably for life. 
Intraoperative duplex sonography during renal artery reconstruction. To assess renal duplex sonography as an intraoperative study to detect technical defects during repair, 57 renal artery reconstructions in 35 patients were studied. Sixteen men and 19 women (mean age, 62 years) underwent unilateral (13 patients) or bilateral (22 patients) renal artery repair to 57 kidneys. Methods of repair included aortorenal bypass grafting in 29 cases (20 saphenous vein, 5 polytetrafluoroethylene, 4 Dacron), reimplantation in 7, transrenal thromboendarterectomy with patch angioplasty in 13, and transaortic extraction thromboendarterectomy in 8. Branch renal artery repair was required in six cases (five in vivo, one ex vivo). Fourteen patients had combined aortic replacement (11 patients: 8 abdominal aortic aneurysms, 3 aortic occlusions) or visceral artery reconstruction (three patients: three superior mesenteric artery thromboendarterectomies, one inferior mesenteric artery thromboendarterectomy). Intraoperative renal duplex sonography (mean scan time, 4.5 minutes) was complete in 56 of 57 repairs (98%), and renal duplex sonography was normal in 44 repairs (77%). Overall, B-scan defects were present in 13 repairs (23%). Six of these (11%) were defined as major B-scan defects by Doppler spectra with focal increases in peak systolic velocity greater than or equal to 2.0 meters/sec (major defect, mean renal artery peak systolic velocity, 3.1 m/sec), which prompted immediate operative revision. Seven B-scan defects were defined as minor by Doppler spectra (minor defect, mean renal artery, peak systolic velocity, 0.7 m/sec) and were not revised. Postoperative evaluation (range, 1 to 22 months; mean follow-up, 12.4 months) of 55 renal artery repairs in 34 operative survivors (surface renal duplex sonography, 33 patients; renal angiography, 9 patients) demonstrated 42/43 renal artery repairs with normal intraoperative renal duplex sonography, and 6/6 repairs with minor B-scan defects were patent and free of critical stenosis. Of the 6 renal artery revisions prompted by major B-scan defects, 4 remained patent, 1 stenosed, and 1 occluded. Our experience suggests that intraoperative renal duplex sonography during renal artery repair provides valuable anatomic and physiologic information. Renal artery repairs with normal renal duplex sonography and minor B-scan defects without Doppler spectral changes demonstrated 98% patency without critical stenosis at 12.4 months of mean follow-up. However, major B-scan defects defined by a focal increase in renal artery peak systolic velocity should be considered for immediate correction. 
Circumvention of multi-drug resistance in human kidney and kidney carcinoma in vitro. This report investigated whether the calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine, can circumvent multi-drug resistance both in primary tissue cultures of human kidney and kidney carcinoma. For detection of inherent multi-drug resistance, the expression of P-glycoprotein was determined by immunofluorescence and immunocytochemistry using the monoclonal antibody C219. For detection of doxorubicin resistance and reversal of this resistance by trifluoperazine, the incorporation of nucleic acid precursor was measured after addition of doxorubicin and trifluoperazine, respectively. Both P-glycoprotein expressing resistant normal and malignant kidney tissue cultures could be modified by trifluoperazine. However, sensitive normal kidney and kidney carcinoma cultures were little affected by trifluoperazine. Thus, circumvention of primary resistance to doxorubicin is not limited to tumor cells. This might have important implications for the use of resistance modifiers in the clinical setting. 
Noninvasive detection of functionally significant coronary artery stenoses with exercise and positron emission tomography. Positron emission tomography has been employed in vivo to assess flow using N-13 (nitrogen-13) ammonia and glucose metabolism, with the glucose analog F-18 (fluorine-18) fluorodeoxyglucose. Flow metabolism mismatches in which glucose metabolism is increased with respect to flow have been used to define ischemic, but viable myocardium. The feasibility of detecting exercise-induced ischemia using this technique was explored. Eleven normal volunteers and 16 patients who had undergone coronary arteriography were studied with N-13 ammonia at rest and with bicycle exercise, and with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose in the postexercise period. Each image was divided into 16 sectors. Comparison of absolute net extractions of N-13 ammonia at rest and with exercise was not sensitive in detecting functionally significant coronary artery lesions. Myocardial uptakes of F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose and exercise N-13 ammonia were normalized to the sector with the highest N-13 ammonia uptake (corresponding to the highest flow rate). The differences and ratios of these normalized uptakes were successfully used to objectively define flow metabolism mismatches and to identify functionally significant coronary artery disease. Our data suggest that exercise flow and metabolic imaging are superior to rest and exercise flow imaging, particularly in patients with prior myocardial infarctions. 
Surgical management of diffuse subaortic stenosis: an integrated approach. An integrated approach to the surgical management of diffuse subaortic stenosis has been designed to provide adequate relief of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction whatever the anatomical features encountered at operation. This approach was used in 22 patients with tunnel subaortic stenosis (19 patients) or diffuse hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (3 patients). The obstructive tissue was resected through an aortoseptal approach. In 18 patients, associated hypoplasia of the aortic orifice necessitated aortic valve replacement using the Konno procedure; in 4 patients with a normal-sized aortic orifice, the native aortic valve was preserved. There were two early deaths and one late death (all after a Konno operation). Long-term adequate relief of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction was achieved in all survivors. Operation for diffuse subaortic stenosis should be performed with two main goals: (1) to obtain complete relief of the left ventricular outflow tract obstruction by the appropriate procedure and (2) to preserve the native aortic valve whenever possible, particularly in young patients. 
Selective antibiotic prophylaxis in biliary tract operations. A prospective study of 397 patients with primary biliary operations performed for benign disease included a perioperative culture of the bile. Two main groups of patients in whom bacteria in the bile and, thus, probably increased risk postoperative infection was common, are patients undergoing emergency operation (60 per cent bacteria in the bile, as compared with 22 per cent in those with elective operations) and patients with a history of acute cholecystitis or pancreatitis, or both, or jaundice (49 per cent bacteria in the bile with a positive history as compared with 11 per cent without). The rate of infection was 2.8 per cent in high-risk groups, as compared with 0.6 per cent in patients undergoing elective operative procedures with no history of acute cholecystitis, pancreatitis or jaundice. Thus, antibiotics can probably be reserved for those patients who had emergency surgical treatment and for those with elective operations and a history of acute cholecystitis, pancreatitis or jaundice. In addition, antibiotic prophylaxis might be indicated for all patients who are 75 years of age or older, as bacteria in the bile seems to be common in this age group even without a history of the aforementioned complications. 
The Sugiura procedure for patients with hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis. The Sugiura procedure (SP) was performed upon 27 patients with hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis (EPVT) without associated hepatic disease. There were 14 female and 13 male patients. The mean age was 28 +/- 14 years. The causes of EPVT were protein C deficiency in two; antithrombin III deficiency in one patient, a history of omphalitis in two patients, a history of pancreatitis in one patient and idiopathy in 21 patients. The SP was completed in two surgical stages in 14 patients and in one stage in nine. There was one operative death. One patient had mild postoperative encephalopathy, and two patients rebled at long term follow-up study. Actuarial survival rate was 82 per cent at five and ten years. It is concluded that the SP is a good alternative for the management of hemorrhagic portal hypertension secondary to EPVT. 
Malignant transformation of a Hurthle cell tumor: case report and survey of the literature. Hurthle cell carcinoma is a relatively uncommon type of well-differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Its diagnosis has been controversial due to the difficulty in separating Hurthle cell adenoma from Hurthle cell carcinoma, thus the term Hurthle cell tumor is often used to describe both lesions. The present case of anaplastic giant-cell carcinoma in an 81-yr-old woman arose in a Hurthle cell tumor. This case illustrates the propensity of Hurthle cell tumor to undergo "malignant transformation" and argues for a more aggressive approach to such tumors. 
Pulmonary nodule: evaluation with spiral volumetric CT. Spiral volumetric computed tomography (CT) was used prospectively in 20 patients with a suspected solitary pulmonary nodule less than 1 cm in diameter on plain chest radiographs. Four additional nodules were detected with spiral CT than were detected with conventional CT. This technique required a 12-second breath hold; patient cooperation was excellent. 
Alterations in influence of granuloma-derived cytokines on fibrogenesis in the course of murine Schistosoma mansoni infection. Schistosomiasis is the main cause of hepatic fibrosis worldwide, yet its pathogenesis remains unknown. We previously reported that conditioned medium from cultures of hepatic egg granulomas (isolated from mice acutely infected with Schistosoma mansoni) can stimulate fibroblast proliferation and matrix production in vitro. We have proposed that initiation of hepatic fibrosis in this infection might be under the control of granuloma-derived cytokines. We now report that conditioned medium from cultures of schistosomal egg granulomas isolated from liver of chronically infected mice has reduced fibrogenic activity compared with medium from cultures of granulomas obtained from more acutely infected mice. In related studies, we adoptively transferred splenocytes from infected mice and examined the fibrogenic activity in culture supernatants of hepatic egg granulomas isolated from the recipients. Those prepared from recipients of splenocytes from chronically infected mice contained substantially less fibrogenic activity than did those from recipients of splenocytes of acutely infected mice. These findings suggest that the fibrogenic influence of schistosomal egg granuloma products decreases during the course of chronic murine S. mansoni infection. Furthermore, our preliminary findings suggest that immunoregulatory cells may be responsible for the down-regulation of this influence. Previous observations indicating that in murine schistosomiasis hepatic collagen and hyaluronate synthesis and deposition are elevated in acute but not chronic infection might be explained on the basis of our observations. 
HBxAg in the liver from carrier patients with chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens from 110 cases of chronic hepatitis and 108 cases of cirrhosis were stained for HBxAg by the avidin-biotin complex technique using specific antisera made against full-length HBxAg polypeptide or derived synthetic peptides. These tissues were also stained for the HBsAg and HBcAg by the peroxidase-anti-peroxidase method. Among patients with chronic hepatitis, 86% were HBsAg positive in liver cells, 60% were surface antigen positive and 32% were core antigen positive. Among patients with cirrhosis, 97% were HBsAg positive in liver cells, 72% were surface antigen positive and 17% were positive for core antigen. Staining specificity was demonstrated, in part, by using preimmune sera in the place of primary antibody, by blocking of the primary antibody with the appropriate antigen before assay and by testing uninfected liver controls. The persistence and high frequency of HBxAg in liver cells from patients with chronic liver disease suggest that it may play one or more important roles in the pathogenesis of chronic infection. It is possible that detection of HBxAg in the liver could be an additional new diagnostic marker for hepatitis B virus infection. However, the function(s) of HBxAg in the pathogenesis of the chronic liver disease, if any, remains to be explained. 
Use of parenteral medium-chain triglyceride emulsion for maintaining seizure control in a 5-year-old girl with intractable diarrhea. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) are an important component of an enteral ketogenic diet for seizure control. Previously, it was difficult to maintain ketosis when parenteral (iv) nutrition therapy was necessary. The use of iv MCT in a 5-year-old girl with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome who had diarrhea and dehydration is reported. Conventional 20% iv fat emulsion (long-chain triglycerides, LCT) and dextrose free hyperalimentation (HAL) in a 4:1 ketogenic ratio did not maintain adequate ketosis during bowel rest. Compassionate use of iv MCT (Clintec Nutrition) infused as a 70:30 MCT/LCT ratio plus HAL maintained moderate ketosis. Seizures were well controlled during the iv MCT regimen, which allowed normal daily functioning. Complications included abnormal liver function tests and severe iron deficiency anemia of unknown etiology. Serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels increased to 1717 mg/dl and 614 mg/dl, respectively, but decreased with a reduction of lipid infusion and use of an antihyperlipemic drug. Nutritional status was maintained. In this case, iv MCT proved to be a relatively safe and effective short-term method of continuing parenteral nutrition while maintaining ketosis for seizure control. 
Differential effects of gallium nitrate on proliferation of brain tumor cells in vitro. Gallium nitrate possesses antineoplastic activity against certain solid tumors; however, no studies exist regarding the effect of this metal on brain tumor cell proliferation. Several human brain tumor and rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines were incubated with increasing concentrations of gallium nitrate and cell proliferation was assessed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. The growth of medulloblastoma 324, rhabdomyosarcoma TE671, and RD cells was markedly inhibited by gallium nitrate, while glioblastoma cell growth was only moderately inhibited (U373 cells) or actually stimulated (U87 cells). Gallium inhibited the cellular uptake of 59Fe; however, this block in 59Fe uptake was variable and closely paralleled the inhibitory effects of gallium on cell growth. Intracellularly, gallium may interfere with DNA synthesis by inhibiting ribonucleotide reductase. Such effects may be of relevance in the treatment of brain tumors with this metal. 
Mixed cryoglobulinemia associated with chronic Q-fever. A 41-year-old woman who presented with purpura, glomerulonephritis and mixed cryoglobulinemia was found subsequently to have developed chronic Q-fever. Since Q-fever is a frequent cause of culture negative endocarditis in some endemic areas, the diagnosis of Q-fever endocarditis should be considered in patients presenting with mixed cryoglobulinemia of unknown cause. 
Suppressive effect of SUN1165 on supraventricular tachycardia. The electrophysiologic properties of SUN1165 and its suppressive effect on supraventricular tachycardia were assessed in 14 patients, nine with atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) and five with atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT). This new agent prolonged the PR interval and QRS duration but did not alter the QT interval or the corrected QT interval. It did not alter the sinus cycle length or sinus node recovery time. The drug prolonged the AH interval, HV interval, and intraatrial conduction time but did not change the effective refractory periods of the right atrium or right ventricle. SUN1165 prevented the induction of tachycardia in six of nine patients with AVRT by a complete retrograde block of the accessory pathway and prevented AVNRT in four of five patients by a complete retrograde block of the fast atrioventricular nodal pathway as well. We conclude that SUN1165 is very effective in preventing AVRT or AVNRT. Larger studies with more patients are warranted. 
Family history in patients with transient ischemic attacks. To determine the influence of family history on vascular disease, we surveyed hospital patients discharged with a diagnosis of transient ischemic attack. Of 117 respondents, 81 knew their family history for myocardial infarction and 81 knew their family history for stroke. Of 83 responding 43 reported a personal history of myocardial infarction, and of 85 responding 66 reported a personal history of stroke. As expected, there was an association between positive family and personal histories of myocardial infarction in younger (aged less than 70 years) patients (Fisher's two-tailed exact test, p = 0.014). This association was reversed for stroke (Fisher's two-tailed exact test, p = 0.017). Older (aged greater than or equal to 70 years) patients had a stronger association between positive family and personal histories of stroke; 14 (74%) of 19 older patients with a positive personal history of stroke had a positive family history of stroke. The reason for this reversal in the relation between family and personal histories of stroke compared with myocardial infarction may relate to the older age at onset of most strokes, differing stroke subtypes in older age groups, or lower rates of fatal myocardial infarction. This study suggests that familial factors may be important in some subtypes of cerebrovascular disease. Familial effects may be different in vascular diseases of the heart and brain. 
Interleukin-6 secreting human pituitary adenomas in vitro. Interleukin-6 was found to be secreted from seven out of ten human pituitary tumours cultured in vitro. These tumours included prolactin-secreting, growth hormone-secreting and clinically non-functioning adenomas. The amount of Interleukin-6 secreted was variable from 58 to 10,000 units per ml. in medium removed after a four-day incubation under basal conditions. Four tumours secreted IL-6 in excess of 500U/ml, three of which were clinically non-functioning, but each secreted follicle stimulating hormone in vitro. This is the first report of a cytokine growth factor being released basally by human pituitary tumours. 
Pancreatoduodenal carcinoma: a clinicopathologic study of 304 patients and immunohistochemical observation for CEA and CA19-9. A total of 304 patients with pancreatoduodenal carcinoma were studied clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically in order to clarify features of carcinoma of four different sites of origin; carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater (Am), the distal common bile duct (DCBD), the head of the pancreas (PH), and the extra-ampullary duodenum (Du). The mean greatest diameter of 87 PH was 3.5 cm compared with 2.7 cm of 149 Am and 2.7 cm of DCBD. Histopathologically, 40% of Am were papillary adenocarcinoma, while about half of DCBD, PH and Du were tubular adenocarcinoma. PH invaded lymphatic (85%), vascular (62%), and perineural (95%) spaces and metastasized lymph nodes (72%) more frequently than Am (77%, 35%, 24%, 50%), DCBD (47%, 61%, 65%, 45%), and Du (76%, 29%, 35%, 65%), respectively. More than 50% of PH invaded the resected margins, whereas in only 2% of Am, the surgical margins were affected by malignant cells. Immunohistochemically, PH was more frequently positive for both carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) (98%) and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 (91%) than Am (83%, 62%), DCBD (94%, 58%), and Du (56%, 11%), respectively. The stromal staining type of CEA and CA 19-9 was more frequently seen in PH (27%, 44%) than in Am (9%, 31%), DCBD (11%, 8%) and Du (0%, 0%), showing a more dedifferentiated nature of PH. The cumulative 3-year survival rate of 87 patients with PH (15%) was worse than that of 149 with Am (42%, P less than 0.001), of 51 with DCBD (25%) and of 17 with Du (58%, P less than 0.001). The survival curve of 87 with PH was worse than that of 51 with DCBD, of 149 with Am (P less than 0.001) and of 17 with Du (P less than 0.001). Cox regression analysis, using eleven profound prognostic variables, revealed that venous invasion, perineural infiltration, surgical margin, and histopathologic type were profound prognostic factors. Pancreatic carcinoma has a more dedifferentiated histopathologic nature, showing a more aggressive growth and fares worse than Am, DCBD, and Du. 
A 21-year experience with major hemorrhage after percutaneous liver biopsy Nine thousand two hundred twelve liver biopsies were performed according to a defined protocol, and data were prospectively recorded to identify risk factors for major bleeding. There were 10 fatal and 22 nonfatal hemorrhages (0.11% and 0.24%, respectively). By comparison with a control group that did not hemorrhage, malignancy, age, sex, and the number of passes were the only predictable risk factors. The risk of fatal hemorrhage in patients with malignancy is estimated to be 0.4%; for nonfatal hemorrhage, 0.57%. In patients undergoing liver biopsy for nonmalignant disease, the risks are 0.04% and 0.16%, respectively. 
Skeletal actin mRNA increases in the human heart during ontogenic development and is the major isoform of control and failing adult hearts. Expression of the two sarcomeric actins, alpha-skeletal and alpha-cardiac, is regulated in the rodent heart in response to developmental, hormonal, and hemodynamic stimuli. Little is known in man, except that both isogenes were found to be coexpressed in three adult ventricles. In this report, we investigated the isoactin mRNA composition in ventricles from 21 control patients (4 fetal, 5 juvenile, 12 adult) and from 15 patients undergoing cardiac transplantation (5 idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathies, 5 ischemic myopathies with myocardial infarcts, 5 diverse etiologies) by two different and complementary techniques: RNA dot blot analysis with specific cDNA probes, and primer extensions with an oligonucleotide common to alpha-cardiac and alpha-skeletal actins. In the case of dot blot analysis, quantification of each isoform was performed by using as standards RNA transcripts obtained from cloned human alpha-actin sequences, and the total amount of sarcomeric actin mRNA was evaluated as a function of total poly(A+)RNA. We found that both isogenes are always coexpressed, and that the isoactin pattern changes during development. In utero and in neonatal hearts, alpha-skeletal actin mRNA represents less than or equal to 20% of sarcomeric actins, it increases to 48 +/- 6% during the first decade after birth and becomes the predominant isoform of adult hearts (60.4 +/- 8.5%). The 15 adult failing hearts exhibited the same isoactin pattern as the control ones (62.84 +/- 11.06%), and there was no difference in expression between patients with dilated cardiomyopathy or ischemic heart disease. These observations demonstrate that cardiac development in man, in contrast to rodent heart, is characterized by an up-regulation of the skeletal actin gene, the expression of which does not change in hypertrophied and failing hearts, and suggest that the actin and myosin heavy chain families are independently regulated in human heart. 
Pregnancy outcome among native Indians in Saskatchewan. OBJECTIVE: To determine the difference in pregnancy outcome between native Indians and the provincial population in Saskatchewan. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of data collected from all birth and death registration forms. SETTING: Saskatchewan. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of low birth weight and rates of stillbirth and of neonatal and infant death. RESULTS: The neonatal death rate was higher in the Indian population than in the provincial population during the study period; the difference between the two groups in the rate decreased markedly after 1982. The rates of stillbirth and infant death were also higher among the Indians, and the difference persisted during the study period. The incidence of low birth weight and the rate of stillbirth were highest in the youngest and oldest maternal groups in the provincial population; however, the pattern was markedly different among the Indians, teenaged mothers having the best outcomes. CONCLUSION: Further studies are needed to determine the relation between maternal age and fetal outcome among native Indians. 
Possible linkage of the estrogen receptor gene to breast cancer in a family with late-onset disease. The estrogen-receptor locus is a candidate gene for inherited susceptibility to human breast cancer, particularly among families with later onset, primarily estrogen-receptor-positive tumors. For one extended family with eight patients with late-onset disease, one estrogen-receptor haplotype was consistently coinherited with breast cancer, yielding a +1.85 lod score for linkage at zero recombination. Simulation of this pedigree assuming independent inheritance of breast cancer and estrogen-receptor genotypes led to a lod score greater than or equal to 1.85 only once in 2,000 replicates. We suggest testing linkage of this gene to breast cancer in other families with late-onset disease. 
Quantitative coronary arteriographic methods in the interventional catheterization laboratory: an update and perspective. Recent research advances in the area of quantitative coronary arteriography are described with respect to their potential role in assessing the effects of interventional therapy and monitoring the restenosis process. Specific areas emphasized are the importance of quantitative arteriography and absolute measures of arterial dimension in monitoring restenosis, the development of a computerized method for measuring lesion roughness, the potential role of measuring stenosis flow reserve based on component analysis principles, limitations of direct measures of myocardial flow reserve using a digital angiographic method and cautionary notes about clinical applications of videodensitometry. The current use of radiography and quantitative measures in limiting arterial injury are briefly reviewed. Finally, a perspective is put forth on the need to develop complementary roles for endovascular echocardiography and angioscopy with existing radiographic imaging technology. 
Diuretic agents and beta-blockers in the treatment of hypertension. Benzothiadiazine diuretic agents and beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking drugs are two of the main groups of drugs used to treat mild hypertension. Recently, questions have been raised about their relative efficacy in preventing morbidity and mortality from vascular disease in addition to their effect on lowering blood pressure. Attention has been focused on the unfavorable metabolic effects of diuretic drugs and the proven value of beta-adrenergic receptor blockade in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. Four randomized controlled trials comparing drugs in these two classes have been published: the Medical Research Council trial, the International Prospective Primary Prevention Study in Hypertension, the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension trial, and the Metoprolol Atherosclerosis Prevention in Hypertension study. These trials, especially that of the Medical Research Council, have raised some questions about the relative efficacy of these two classes of drugs in preventing stroke in smokers and nonsmokers. Overall, there is little evidence of a reduction in morbidity and mortality after myocardial infarction. The predicted advantage of beta-adrenergic receptor blockade over diuretic therapy has not been realized although there are sufficient hints of a differential benefit to encourage the performance of further trials. 
Stenting of coronary arteries: has a modern Pandora's box been opened? Interventional cardiology has recently witnessed the growth of several alternatives to percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, including coronary stenting. Although stenting appears to be useful in treating abrupt closure after coronary angioplasty, its effectiveness in limiting the complex processes responsible for late restenosis is much less certain. Pathologic examination of stented human saphenous bypass grafts shows extensive deposits of platelets, fibrin and leukocytes along the stent wires within the 1st week and formation of a neointima of variable thickness after 3 months without evidence of foreign body reaction. The long-term effects of continuous barotrauma induced by the expanded stent remain unknown. It is difficult to assess the relative merits of the new devices, but stenting has several theoretic advantages. It seems less disruptive to the underlying architecture of the vessel wall and enjoys favorable theoretic and effective expansion ratios. Wide-spread clinical acceptance for stenting will depend on demonstrating that its safety, efficacy and cost efficiency are superior to those of balloon angioplasty. 
Magnetic resonance imaging and 31P spectroscopy of an interictal cortical spike focus in the rat. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has proven to be an effective noninvasive technique for identifying lesions in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. It has also been suggested that MRI may be sensitive to transient functional or metabolic changes in brain tissue. Increased brain electrical activity as monitored by electroencephalography causes changes in cerebral metabolism that may be responsible for focal or regional alterations in signal in the MRI of some patients. To test this hypotheses, experimental interictal cortical foci were produced in rats by topical application of penicillin to one hemisphere of the brain. In vivo MRI and phosphorous-31 (31P) spectroscopy of the focal and contralateral hemifield were performed in a 30-cm bore 1.89-T Bruker MSL system. 31P spectroscopy revealed no quantifiable differences in pH or in phosphocreatinine and ATP levels between the focal area and the contralateral hemisphere or between experimental and saline-treated control animals. There were also no differences in proton MRI. Similar areas of prolonged T2 were found near the cortex and in the deeper parenchyma in 55% of the experimental animals and 50% of the controls. These results suggest that the electrical activity from an interictal cortical spike focus is not severe enough to perturb cerebral metabolism sufficiently to be detectable by 31P spectroscopy or proton imaging techniques. 
Antisense-mediated reduction in thrombospondin reverses the malignant phenotype of a human squamous carcinoma. Thrombospondin (TSP) is a trimeric glycoprotein which is synthesized and incorporated into the extracellular matrix by a wide variety of cells. TSP is involved in a number of cellular processes which govern tumor cell behavior including mitogenesis, attachment, migration, and differentiation. To directly assess the role of TSP in tumor cell growth and spread, a human squamous carcinoma cell line, with high TSP production and an invasive phenotype, was transfected with a TSP cDNA antisense expression vector. Five unique transfected clones were obtained with reduced TSP production. Expression of the transfected antisense sequence in these clones was verified by a ribonuclease protection assay. These clones demonstrated reduced growth rates in vitro when compared with a vector transfected control. After subcutaneous inoculation into athymic mice, the antisense clones formed either no tumors or tumors that were slow growing and highly differentiated. This contrasted with the vector-transfected clone which produced poorly differentiated, rapidly growing, invasive tumors. Our results argue in favor of a direct role for TSP in determining the malignant phenotype of certain human tumors. 
Cardiac transplantation. How recipients are selected. Your patients with heart disease may ask about transplantation. Those who are potential candidates need a physician who knows enough about the selection system to get them into it. For other patients, an explanation of why the procedure is contraindicated in their case can help them refocus on compliance with recommended therapy. The authors discuss the principles of recipient selection. 
Mucosal dysplasia and DNA content in ulcerative colitis patients with ileorectal anastomosis. Follow-up study in a defined patient group. In a follow-up study of an epidemiologically defined patient group comprising 1,274 patients with ulcerative colitis diagnosed in Stockholm County during 1955-1979, 55 patients had undergone colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA). Nine of these were found to have Crohn's disease after histopathologic review of the colectomy specimens. Of the 46 patients with ulcerative colitis remaining for evaluation, two died postoperatively. Twenty-five patients were subsequently reoperated with rectal excision owing to intractable inflammatory activity (n = 22, one postoperative death) or owing to dysplasia (n = 3). Of 19 patients with their IRA still intact at time of follow-up, 15 patients (median disease duration 23 years) had a flexible sigmoidoscopy with multiple biopsies performed. The average length of the remaining rectum and sigmoid colon was 26 cm. No patient had findings of dysplasia, carcinoma, or DNA aneuploidy. None of the four remaining patients had developed dysplasia or carcinoma at the time of the latest regular rigid sigmoidoscopy. The risk of malignant transformation in this selected group of patients with ulcerative colitis operated upon with colectomy and IRA derived from an epidemiologically defined population seems to be low. 
Short and long term outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in unstable versus stable angina pectoris: a report of the 1985-1986 NHLBI PTCA Registry. In a cohort of 1,720 consecutive patients from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) Registry (August 1985-May 1986), we compared 768 patients (45%) with stable angina and 952 patients (55%) with unstable angina pectoris. Unstable angina patients exhibited at least one of the following characteristics: new onset angina, rapidly progressing angina, angina at rest, angina refractory to medication, variant angina, acute coronary insufficiency, or angina recurring shortly after an acute myocardial infarct. The distribution of single- and multi-vessel disease was similar among stable and unstable angina patients; multi-vessel disease predominated. Average severity of stenosis and incidence of tubular and diffuse stenosis morphology were higher among patients with unstable angina (both p less than 0.001). Patient success rates were similar in stable and unstable patients. However, on a per lesion basis, overall angiographic success rate and average reduction of severity of stenosis in successfully dilated lesions were significantly higher among patients with unstable angina (both p less than 0.001). Incidence of major patient complications (p less than 0.01) and of emergency coronary bypass surgery (p less than 0.05) were also higher in patients with unstable angina but consistent with their more precarious clinical condition and stenosis morphology. During a two year follow-up, the cumulative distributions of death, myocardial infarct, repeat PTCA, and coronary bypass surgery were not significantly different in patients with stable angina compared to patients with unstable angina. Comparison of the current PTCA Registry cohort with the cases reported in the 1979-1982 Registry revealed a 19% higher success rate for both stable and unstable angina patients. Major complication rates decreased between time periods for stable but not for unstable angina patients. Incidence of emergency bypass surgery decreased more for stable than for unstable angina patients. Coronary angioplasty is indicated in properly selected patients with unstable angina and both single- and multi-vessel coronary disease. 
Reversal of nonresponders and postexposure prophylaxis by intradermal hepatitis B vaccination in Japanese medical personnel. Thirty-one Japanese nonresponders to subcutaneous hepatitis B vaccination and 15 medical personnel who were accidentally exposed to specimens positive for hepatitis B e antigen and were given hepatitis B immunoglobulin were intradermally immunized with 5 micrograms of plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine every 2 weeks until delayed type hypersensitivity skin reaction to hepatitis B surface antigen became positive. Thirty (97%) of the 31 nonresponders developed delayed type hypersensitivity skin reactions to hepatitis B surface antigen after 2.3 +/- 1.2 (mean +/- SD) revaccinations. Twenty-nine (94%) of the 31 nonresponders had anti-hepatitis B surface antigen antibody levels greater than 10 IU/L. The immunoglobulin subclass of the antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen was mainly IgG1. After 1 year, 23 (74%) of the 31 nonresponders continued to have anti-hepatitis B surface antigen antibody levels greater than 10 IU/L. Persons accidentally exposed to specimens positive for hepatitis B e antigen developed delayed type hypersensitivity skin reactions to hepatitis B surface antigen following 3.1 +/- 1.1 revaccinations. None developed clinical hepatitis. There was no production of anti-hepatitis B core antigen antibody 1 year after exposure, indicating that protection was 100%. Intradermal hepatitis B vaccination is useful in reversing nonresponsiveness to hepatitis B surface antigen and for prophylaxis after exposure. 
The value of bupivicaine hip injection in the differentiation of coxarthrosis from lower extremity neuropathy. A series of 18 consecutive patients with roentgenographically proven osteoarthrosis (osteoarthritis, OA) of the hip and spine were evaluated because of concomitant lower extremity pain below the knee. To determine whether the leg symptoms were coxalgic or neuropathic, intraarticular hip bupivicaine was injected as a provocative test. This test allowed correct identification of the source of the pain with a sensitivity of 87%, a specificity of 100%, and an efficiency of 88%. This office test also provides significant savings in terms of diagnostic tests and patient discomfort. 
Diagnostic imaging in puerperal febrile morbidity. This retrospective study was conducted to assess the value of imaging in patients with refractory puerperal febrile morbidity. During a 36-month period, 31 patients were referred for ultrasound and/or computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging because of postpartum fever unresponsive to broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy of at least 72 hours' duration. Hematomas were identified in 11 women. Abscesses were diagnosed in seven patients, ovarian venous thrombosis in two, vesicouterine fistula in one, small-bowel obstruction in one, and a subcutaneous seroma in one. Twenty-one women had endomyometritis, 13 of whom also had other extrauterine abnormalities (abscess in six, hematoma in four, and ovarian venous thrombosis, vesicouterine fistula, and small-bowel obstruction in one each). Retained placental tissue was found in two women with endomyometritis. Only two subjects had negative imaging studies. In most patients, imaging led to definitive diagnosis and specific therapeutic measures resulting in resolution of the febrile morbidity. Our experience suggests that these imaging techniques may be helpful in evaluating puerperal fever. 
Eosinophil-rich, granulomatous inflammatory response to Plasmodium berghei hepatic schizonts in nonimmunized rats is age-related. Inflammatory responses to Plasmodium hepatic schizonts within the livers of non-immunized animals have long been assumed to be initiated only after the parasites have matured and begun to burst. However, recent reports of inflammatory responses around hepatic schizonts suggested a re-examination of this issue. We injected Norway-Brown rats of various ages intravenously with Plasmodium berghei sporozoites and studied subsequent liver histopathology. We found that the ability of these rats to mount an inflammatory response is age-dependent. Young (4 weeks) rats had weak inflammatory responses against hepatic schizonts, whereas older (8-10 weeks) rats mounted a strong response. Older rats had many granulomatous reactions within the liver; eosinophils represented a pioneer component of the cellular infiltrate. There was a reduction in the numbers of surviving hepatic schizonts in the older rats, suggesting that these granulomatous and eosinophilic reactions had effectively destroyed some of the hepatic schizonts. We found clear evidence of inflammatory cells (eosinophils) infiltrating hepatic schizonts as early as 40 hours post-injection with sporozoites, a time well before any hepatic schizonts could have burst within the liver. This presents histological evidence that inflammatory cells can recognize and infiltrate intact hepatocytes containing schizonts in immunologically naive animals. 
A prospective study of maturity-onset diabetes mellitus and risk of coronary heart disease and stroke in women. We examined the relationship of maturity-onset clinical diabetes mellitus with the subsequent incidence of coronary heart disease, stroke, total cardiovascular mortality, and all-cause mortality in a cohort of 116,177 US women who were 30 to 55 years of age and free of known coronary heart disease, stroke, and cancer in 1976. During 8 years of follow-up (889 255 person-years), we identified 338 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 111 coronary deaths, 259 strokes, 238 cardiovascular deaths, and 1349 deaths from all causes. Diabetes was associated with a markedly increased risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction and fatal coronary heart disease (age-adjusted relative risk [RR] = 6.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 5.3 to 8.4), ischemic stroke (RR = 5.4; 95% CI, 3.3 to 9.0), total cardiovascular mortality (RR = 6.3; 95% CI, 4.6 to 8.6), and all-cause mortality (RR = 3.0; 95% CI, 2.5 to 3.7). A major independent effect of diabetes persisted in multivariate analyses after simultaneous control for other known coronary risk factors (for these end points, RR [95% CI] = 3.1 [2.3 to 4.2], 3.0 [1.6 to 5.7], 3.0 [1.9 to 4.8], and 1.9 [1.4 to 2.4], respectively). The absolute excess coronary risk due to diabetes was greater in the presence of other risk factors, including cigarette smoking, hypertension, and obesity. These prospective data indicate that maturity-onset clinical diabetes is a strong determinant of coronary heart disease, ischemic stroke, and cardiovascular mortality among middle-aged women. The adverse effect of diabetes is amplified in the presence of other cardiovascular risk factors, many of which are modifiable. 
Fetal and neonatal effects of treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in pregnancy. We conducted a systematic search of the world literature up to January 1, 1990 on the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors for treatment of hypertension during pregnancy. A total of 25 publications reported 85 pregnancies in 81 women, including three twin pregnancies. Captopril had been used in 49, enalapril in 35, and both drugs in one of these pregnancies. The number of unbiased data are too limited to permit firm conclusions on teratogenicity, if any, of these agents. Contrary to earlier suggestions, we found no evidence that the use of these agents increases the likelihood of low weight for gestational age, respiratory distress syndrome, and/or persistent ductus arteriosus. Use of these agents in pregnancy can cause severe disturbance of fetal and neonatal renal function, such as oligohydramnios, pulmonary hypoplasia, and long-lasting neonatal anuria. Although the true incidence of these perinatal problems cannot be derived from the type of data hitherto available, there are strong suggestions that renal dysfunction is more common with the use of enalapril than with captopril. The frequency of serious perinatal complications is high enough to warrant extreme reluctance in prescribing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors during pregnancy. 
Respiratory symptoms in Indian women using domestic cooking fuels. The effect of domestic cooking fuels producing various respiratory symptoms was studied in 3,701 women. Of these, 3,608 were nonsmoking women who used four different types of cooking fuels: biomass, LPG, kerosene, and mixed fuels. The overall respiratory symptoms were observed in 13 percent of patients. Mixed fuel users experienced more respiratory symptoms (16.7 percent), followed by biomass (12.6 percent), stove (11.4 percent), and LPG (9.9 percent). Chronic bronchitis in chulla users was significantly higher than that in kerosene and LPG users (p less than 0.05). Dyspnea and postnasal drip were significantly higher in the women using mixed fuels. Smoking women who are also exposed to cooking fuels experienced respiratory symptoms more often than nonsmokers (33.3 percent vs 13 percent). 
Thrombolytic therapy in acute MI. Weighing the risks and benefits. The underlying cause of acute myocardial infarction can now be effectively treated with thrombolytic agents, thereby increasing myocardial salvage and reducing mortality. Clinicians should always be aware of the risk-to-benefit ratio in treating patients with thrombolytic agents and treat each patient on an individual basis. 
Specific release of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and IFN-gamma by human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes after autologous tumor stimulation. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) have been cultured from a variety of human tumors, and some melanoma TIL have demonstrated specific, MHC-restricted recognition of autologous tumor in short term lysis assays. The current study investigates cytokine release by TIL as an indicator of specific tumor recognition. We have identified two of four melanoma and one of seven breast carcinoma TIL cultures that specifically release granulocyte-macrophage-CSF, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma after autologous tumor stimulation. The other cultures either do not secrete cytokine or secrete cytokine in a nonspecific fashion. The amount of specific cytokine released is directly related to the number of TIL and stimulating tumor cells. Studies of TIL, from two melanoma patients, separated into CD4+ and CD8+ populations revealed that CD8+ cells were responsible for virtually all of the specific cytokine secretion, although both populations released cytokines when activated by immobilized anti-CD3 antibody. Specific cytokine release by CD8+ TIL was inhibited by anti-MHC class I mAb. Specific cytokine release was also detected from a CD4+ breast cancer TIL culture, and this was inhibited by anti-MHC class II mAb. The clinical significance of this specific mode of immune antitumor reactivity is currently under investigation. 
Study of 156 cases of polyhydramnios and congenital malformations in a series of 118,265 consecutive births. Polyhydramnios associated with congenital anomalies was studied over nine years in 118,265 consecutive pregnancies. The prevalence of this association was 1.32% (156 cases). A case-control study allowed the examination of genetic and environmental factors for the origin of polyhydramnios associated with congenital malformations. Diagnosis of polyhydramnios associated with congenital malformations was performed prenatally in 41% of the cases; 16% of the infants were stillborn. Fifty-five percent of the cases had more than one malformation, 13.4% of them had a chromosomal aberration, and 32% had multiple malformations that do not constitute a syndrome. There was an increase of consanguinity in the parents of our patients. The incidence of polyhydramnios and congenital anomalies in first-degree relatives was 3.8%, and first-degree relatives had more malformations than the controls had (8.3% vs 3.2%). Our study demonstrated the low capacity of a general prenatal screening program because the diagnosis of malformations associated with polyhydramnios was made in only 41% of the cases and only six of 21 chromosomal abnormalities were diagnosed prenatally. We recommend the use of fetal chromosome analysis and careful ultrasonographic examination in every pregnancy complicated by polyhydramnios. 
Mortality in acute cerebral infarction in young adults--a ten-year experience. We reviewed the one-month mortality among 213 patients aged fifteen to forty-five years (mean thirty-five) with acute cerebral infarction (CI) evaluated during the period July 1, 1977, to February 1, 1988. Atherosclerotic cerebral infarction (ACI) was diagnosed in 59 (27.7%) patients, 53 (24.9%) had non-atherosclerotic vasculopathies (NAV); 46 (21.6%) had cardioembolic infarcts (CEI). Hematologically related disorders were diagnosed in 30 (14.1%) patients; the cause of CI could not be established in 25 (11.7%) patients. Fourteen patients (9 men, 5 women, mean age 34.8 years), (6.6%) died within thirty days of their CI: 7 had CEI (7/46,15.2%); 4 had ACI (4/59, 6.7%); and 3 had NAV (3/53, 5.6%). Our data suggest that young patients with acute CI have a thirty-day mortality rate lower than older patients. Deaths were most common in patients with CEI. Brain edema and herniation accounted for 6 (43%) of the deaths. 
Effect of cell wall skeleton and monophosphoryl lipid A adjuvant on the immunogenicity of a murine B16 melanoma vaccine. We examined the effect of a new adjuvant consisting of purified mycobacterial cell wall skeleton (CWS) and monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) on the immunogenicity of a murine melanoma vaccine. C57BL/6 mice were immunized to partially purified B16 melanoma vaccine given alone or together with different dose levels of adjuvant, or with saline or adjuvant alone. Humoral response, delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH), in vitro cytotoxicity, and tumor-protective immunity to melanoma were measured following three biweekly immunizations. The adjuvant potentiated the antibody response to some, but not all, melanoma antigens in a dose-dependent fashion. The adjuvant also potentiated cellular immunity as measured by in vitro cytotoxicity assays. No potentiation of tumor-protective immunity was detected. In comparison to Freund's complete adjuvant, cell wall skeleton plus monophosphoryl lipid A (CWS:MPL) induced fewer cutaneous toxic effects and stronger antibody and DTH responses but resulted in no greater in vitro cytotoxicity or tumor-protective immunity. Thus, the adjuvant had a selective and dose-dependent effect on humoral responses to vaccine immunization but did not potentiate a tumor-protective immunity to B16 melanoma. 
Histopathologic comparison between human oral squamous cell carcinomas and their xenografts in nude mice. Tumor portions were obtained from 11 oral squamous cell carcinomas and used to produce tumors in a xenogeneic gnotobiotic nude mouse model system. The tumors that developed were examined histologically. The cellular features and tumor growth patterns were compared between the original oral squamous cell carcinoma (T0) and the tumor that developed in the xenogeneic host (T1). The T1 tumors were more highly differentiated in comparison with the T0 tumors. The T1 tumors exhibited less cellular pleomorphism and a more uniform pattern of stratification. The cells in the T1 tumors exhibited an increased mitotic index but did not contain abnormal mitoses. The T1 tumors usually exhibited nodular growth patterns rather than the infiltrating pattern exhibited by the parenchyma of the T0 tumors. The desmoplastic reaction was markedly reduced in the T1 tumors. The results indicated that the gnotobiotic nude mouse model system either selects for or induces a more differentiated pattern of tumor growth than that found in the original human oral squamous cell carcinomas. 
Potential errors in pulse oximetry. II. Effects of changes in saturation and signal quality. The published studies of pulse oximeter performance under conditions of normal, high and low saturation, exercise, poor signal quality and cardiac arrhythmia are reviewed. Most pulse oximeters have an absolute mean error of less than 2% at normal saturation and perfusion; two-thirds have a standard deviation (SD) of less than 2%, and the remainder an SD of less than 3%. Some pulse oximeters tend to read 100% with fractional saturations of 97-98%. Pulse oximeters may be suitable hyperoxic alarms for neonates if the alarm limit chosen is directly validated for each device. Pulse oximeters are poorly calibrated at low saturations and are generally less accurate and less precise than at normal saturations; nearly 30% of 244 values reviewed were in error by more than 5% at saturations of less than 80%. Ear, nose and forehead probes respond more rapidly to rapid desaturation than finger probes, but are generally less accurate and less precise. Ear oximetry may be inaccurate during exercise. Low signal quality can result in failure to present a saturation reading, but data given with low signal quality warning messages are generally no less accurate than those without. Cardiac arrhythmias do not decrease accuracy of pulse oximeters so long as saturation readings are steady. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of proximal subclavian artery stenosis after left internal mammary to left anterior descending artery bypass surgery. A patient is described who underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, through a brachial approach, of a high grade stenosis at the proximal portion of the left subclavian artery 1.5 years after coronary artery bypass grafting including left internal mammary to left anterior descending artery anastomosis. Symptoms of class IV angina, vertebrobasilar insufficiency and occupational arm claudication that developed after bypass surgery were promptly relieved after balloon dilation. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian artery can be performed safely and provides an alternative to carotid-subclavian or axillary-axillary bypass surgery for treatment of internal mammary artery graft malfunction. 
An analysis of the retrolabyrinthine vs. the retrosigmoid vestibular nerve section. Vestibular neurectomy is gaining widespread acceptance as a primary means of controlling medically refractory vertigo. However, debate continues over the adequacy of vestibular neurectomy within the cerebellopontine angle, long-term control, and the most appropriate surgical approach. To address these issues, we retrospectively reviewed 118 patients who underwent vestibular neurectomy between October 1984 and January 1988. Forty-two patients who underwent a retrolabyrinthine approach and 44 patients who underwent a retrosigmoid approach completed a written questionnaire and provided a recent audiogram. According to American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery guidelines, complete or substantial vertigo control was achieved and maintained in 95% of patients in both surgical groups. Hearing, tinnitus, and fullness results over the long term are variable. The advantages and disadvantages of the various vestibular neurectomy approaches will be detailed. On review of our results and surgical experience, we now prefer the retrosigmoid approach. 
Surgical repair of rectovaginal fistulas in patients with Crohn's disease: transvaginal approach. The surgical management of rectovaginal fistulas complicating Crohn's disease has been associated with unacceptably high failure rates. We sought to modify the available surgical techniques to provide a solution to this challenging problem. Between December 1983 and January 1990, 14 patients with Crohn's disease underwent repair of a rectovaginal fistula. A modified transvaginal approach was employed by the authors. A diverting loop ileostomy was performed on all patients, either as the initial step in the staged management of intractable perianal disease or concurrent with the repair of the rectovaginal fistula. The fistula was completely eradicated in 13 of the 14 women and did not recur during the mean follow-up period of 55.0 months (range, 3-77 months). Intestinal continuity was reestablished in these 13 patients within 6 months after the initial fistula repair. One patient with a very low-lying fistula constituted our only failure. We have found the transvaginal method preferable to the transanal approach because of the relative ease in raising the vaginal flap as compared with a flap of fibrotic and inflamed anorectal mucosa. On the basis of this study, we conclude that a modified transvaginal approach is an effective method for repair of rectovaginal fistulas secondary to Crohn's disease. 
Effect of ischemia on protein synthesis in the septic liver. The effect of ischemia on hepatic protein synthesis during sepsis is not known, but is of clinical relevance, since hepatic blood flow decreases during the late phase of sepsis. In this study, synthesis of acute-phase proteins was measured in perfused livers of rats 16 hours after sham operation or cecal ligation and puncture. Livers from each group had 45 minutes of complete ischemia or control perfusion. Protein synthesis was measured during two hour perfusion after the ischemia or control period, by determining incorporation of 3H-leucine into total secreted trichloracetic acid precipitated proteins, immunoprecipitated complement component C3 and albumin and phosphotungstenate-precipitated alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. Lactate, glutamine-oxalacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT) levels in the perfusate were measured during preischemic and postischemic perfusion. Tissue glutathione levels were measured at the end of the perfusion. Synthesis of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein was increased by 100 per cent and albumin synthesis decreased by 46 per cent in septic livers, consistent with an acute-phase response and apparent downregulation of albumin synthesis during early sepsis. Synthesis rates were reduced by 50 to 60 per cent after ischemia in perfused livers from sham operated rats and 70 to 80 per cent in livers from septic rats. Hepatic production of interleukin-1 was not different between the groups during perfusion. GOT and GPT levels increased significantly during ischemia of both nonseptic and septic livers and rapidly returned toward baseline during reperfusion. Lactate levels were higher in perfusate of septic than of nonseptic livers before ischemia and increased further during ischemia. The results suggest that ischemia inhibits production of secreted hepatic proteins similarly in nonseptic and septic livers, but perhaps to a slightly greater extent in septic livers. 
A case of candidal umbilical granuloma. A case is reported of a 14-year-old boy with a mass arising from the umbilicus, which was a large, well-organized candidal granuloma. Cell markers showed normal numbers and distribution of peripheral T and B lymphocytes but there was no reaction to intradermal injection of Candida, suggesting a specific T-cell defect such as occurs in chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. 
Invasive treatment of pancreatic fluid collections with surgical and nonsurgical methods. Pancreatic fluid collections (PFC) can be drained surgically or nonsurgically with endoscopic or radiologic techniques. To define subgroups of patients with PFC who would benefit from the new modalities, we reviewed a period (1977 to 1990) during which both surgical and nonsurgical invasive techniques were available. Patients with phlegmon or necrosis at initial diagnosis were excluded. Sixty-five patients (35 male, 30 female) underwent 1 or more drainage procedures. A mean postprocedure follow-up of 10.2 months was available for 59 patients. Initial management was nonsurgical in 80% of patients. Procedures in patients with follow-up comprised invasive nonsurgical drainage (n = 25), invasive nonsurgical drainage plus surgery (n = 22), and surgery only (n = 12). Results for each group, respectively, were: morbidity, 20%, 20%, and 24%; mortality, 8%, 5%, and 0%; and successful drainage, 92%, 82%, and 83%. The choice of management appeared to be based on etiology and radiologic characteristics. Patients with nonalcohol- and nonbiliary-associated pancreatitis without a radiographically defined wall were more common in the invasive nonsurgical group and were successfully treated without surgery. Nonsurgical invasive techniques are efficacious in the treatment of PFC in this subgroup of patients. 
Haemorrhagic colitis and haemolytic-uraemic syndrome: false positive reaction with a rotavirus latex agglutination test. A stool sample from a child with haemorrhagic colitis and haemolytic-uraemic syndrome gave a positive reaction with the RotaScreen latex agglutination test in the absence of other evidence of rotavirus infection. When this test is performed on bloody specimens, positive reactions should be interpreted with caution and confirmed by other means. 
Chronic streptozotocin diabetes in rats facilitates the acute stress response without altering pituitary or adrenal responsiveness to secretagogues. We have used streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes in rats to determine whether this represents a sustained stimulus to the adrenocortical system and whether STZ-diabetic rats are able to mount an acute stress response. Furthermore, we compared pituitary responsiveness to CRF and/or arginine vasopressin, and adrenal responsiveness to ACTH in STZ- vs. vehicle-treated rats. We also compared the efficacy of dexamethasone inhibitory feedback in STZ-diabetic and control rats. Our results show that STZ-treated rats chronically hypersecrete corticosterone (B) as evidenced by their decreased thymus weights, their increased urinary B excretion, and their elevated mean plasma B levels during the light hours of the day. Despite the evidence for sustained hypersecretion of B, STZ-treated rats showed greater and more prolonged ACTH and B responses to the acute stress of histamine injection. However, when tested separately, neither pituitary nor adrenal responsiveness to their secretagogues were increased in STZ-diabetic compared to control rats. Dexamethasone inhibition of stress-induced B secretion was tested using two different paradigms: pentobarbital-anesthetized rats were given iv injections of acid saline, and awake rats were given ip injections of histamine. In both experiments the STZ-treated rats were relatively resistant to glucocorticoid inhibition of stress responses. This finding, taken together with the exaggerated ACTH and B responses to stress, strongly suggests that the facilitatory effects of chronic STZ-diabetes are a consequence of changes in sensitivity of central neural components of the adrenocortical system to stimulatory and/or inhibitory inputs, in conjunction with changes in glucocorticoid feedback sensitivity. 
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome following bone marrow transplantation in adults for hematologic malignancies. One hundred and sixty eight adult patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and other hematologic malignancies who underwent autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) were investigated for the subsequent development of hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS). All patients were conditioned with cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation. When examined at 3-month intervals for the first year post-BMT, all patients had uniform measurements of hematocrit (Hct) and serum creatinine. Sixteen patients who initially exhibited Hct and creatinine values that were normal range for the BMT populations developed a sudden decrease in Hct and increase in creatinine between 3 and 11 months post-BMT and fulfilled the clinical and laboratory criteria for HUS. None of these patients had known active cytomegalovirus infection, graft-versus-host disease, or cyclosporine administration. The degree of decrease in Hct and creatinine elevation ranged from solely laboratory abnormalities to a clinically significant syndrome. Twelve of the 16 patients developed acute clinical complications of congestive heart failure, hypertension (HTN), or peripheral edema. Twelve patients required red blood cell support, whereas only four patients required platelet transfusions. Both hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia have resolved in virtually all cases. At a mean follow up of 18 months postdiagnosis, creatinine elevations have persisted along with HTN. All patients have survived without life-threatening long-term sequelae. With the increasing use of BMT as a curative modality for patients with hematologic malignancies, it becomes important to prospectively monitor patients for the development of HUS and its potential long-term impact on renal function. 
Hemorrhagic shock and bacterial translocation in a swine model. Bacterial translocation is proposed as an explanation for sepsis associated with hemorrhagic shock. This study attempted to document these events in a large animal model. Male swine were randomly assigned to control (n = 10) or experimental (n = 10) groups. Animals were anaesthetized, and the bladder, portal vein, and a mesenteric lymphatic vessel cannulated. Experimental animals were bled 40% of blood volume. Over the next six hours maintenance fluids were given, and cultures of portal blood and mesenteric lymph taken. Before the swine were killed, cultures were taken from portal and systemic blood, mesenteric lymph, and lymph nodes, and a portion of terminal ileum was resected for histologic study. Experimental animals experienced significant shock as demonstrated by changes in hemodynamic and biochemical variables. Cultures and histologic examination of the terminal ileum showed no significant difference between control and experimental animals. In an unresuscitated swine model, significant bacterial translocation was not demonstrated within six hours of hemorrhagic shock. 
Beta-Lactam-beta-lactamase-inhibitor combinations are active in experimental endocarditis caused by beta-lactamase-producing oxacillin-resistant staphylococci. Optimal therapeutic strategies for serious infections caused by borderline and heterotypic oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (BORSA and ORSA) strains have not been fully characterized. Recent evidence suggests that the dominant penicillin-binding protein of ORSA strains (PBP 2a) shows good affinity for ampicillin and that these strains commonly produce beta-lactamase. Therefore, we compared the in vivo efficacy of the combination of ampicillin plus sulbactam with that of vancomycin against ORSA strains. Also, the moderate resistance of BORSA strains appears to be attributable mainly to the hyperproduction of beta-lactamase. Therefore, we also studied the in vivo efficacy of ampicillin plus sulbactam against such organisms. Experimental aortic endocarditis was induced in rabbits by the following three strains: beta-lactamase-producing BORSA strain VP-986, beta-lactamase-producing ORSA strain 67-0, and its beta-lactamase-negative clone. In animals with BORSA endocarditis, ampicillin plus sulbactam and oxacillin were highly effective in reducing mean intravegetation bacterial densities, with each being significantly better than either ampicillin alone or no therapy. In animals with endocarditis caused by the beta-lactamase-producing ORSA strain, ampicillin plus sulbactam was significantly better at reducing mean vegetation bacterial densities than the other regimens. For endocarditis caused by the beta-lactamase-negative ORSA clone, ampicillin was better than vancomycin in reducing mean intravegetation bacterial densities. These data show that infections caused by beta-lactamase-producing BORSA strains respond therapeutically in a manner similar to that of infections caused by oxacillin-susceptible strains, with both oxacillin and ampicillin plus sulbactam being highly efficacious. 
Management of solitary pulmonary nodules. The solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN), a single intrapulmonary spherical lesion that is fairly well circumscribed, is a common clinical problem. About half of SPNs seen in clinical practice are malignant, usually bronchogenic carcinomas. Some nodules are primary tumors of other kinds or metastatic. Virtually all benign SPNs are tuberculous or fungal granulomas. The standard management of the SPN of unknown cause is prompt surgical removal unless benignity is established by prior chest roentgenograms showing that the nodule has been stable (i.e., showing no growth) for 2 years or by the presence of a "benign" pattern of calcification. Less universally accepted criteria for benignity include (1) transthoracic needle aspiration biopsy (TNAB) showing a specific benign process, and (2) patient's age under 30 to 35 years. Bronchoscopy has a low diagnostic yield, particularly for benign nodules. SPNs usually grow at constant rates, expressed as the "doubling time" (DT). A nodule with a DT between 20 and 400 days is usually malignant. Benign nodules usually have a DT greater than 400 days. The prospective determination of DT by serial chest roentgenograms (the "wait and watch" strategy) is widely criticized but has clinical utility in special circumstances, particularly if the likelihood of malignancy is low and/or the anticipated surgical mortality is high. The presence and pattern of calcification are best shown by high-resolution thin-section computed tomography (CT). Diffuse, laminated, central or "popcorn" patterns of calcification indicate benignity. An eccentric calcium deposit or a stippled pattern does not rule out malignancy. CT densitometry will often show "occult" calcification in nodules that show no direct visual evidence of calcium deposition. The characteristics of the edge of the nodule correlate with the likelihood of malignancy. Nodules with irregular or spiculated margins are almost always malignant. The probability that the nodule is malignant (pCA) is related to the age of the patient, the diameter of the nodule, the amount of tobacco smoke inhalation, the overall prevalence of malignancy in SPNs, the nature of the edge of the lesion, and the presence or absence of occult calcification. It is possible by Bayesian techniques to combine these factors to calculate a more precise and comprehensive prediction of pCA in any given nodule. The 5-year survival after nodule resection depends on the size of the nodule at the time of surgery; it may be as high as 80% with nodules that are 1 cm in diameter. Lymph node involvement is uncommon with small tumors, and many authorities question the need for CT staging in such cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Stroke from other etiologies masquerading as migraine-stroke. There has been a recent increase in the number of studies dealing with migraine-stroke. I describe five patients in whom migraine-stroke was the clinical diagnosis but in whom the subsequent clinical events or autopsy showed a different mechanism for the cerebral infarction. Three patients had arterial dissection (one proven at autopsy), one had marantic endocarditis that had been missed on two echocardiograms (proven at autopsy), and one had generalized atherosclerosis and diabetes. These patients demonstrate that important and different etiologies may produce what seems to be the migraine-stroke syndrome. The result may be failure to recognize specific therapeutic measures that could have vitally important benefit to the patient. 
Early loss of neurogenic inflammation in the human diabetic foot. 1. Neurogenic inflammation, mediated by nociceptor C fibres, is part of the acute neurovascular response to injury producing the axon reflex flare. Laser Doppler flowmetry was used to measure the flare response induced by the electrophoresis, at various current strengths, of a ring of acetylcholine solution into dorsal foot skin. 2. Nineteen control subjects and 52 long-duration insulin-dependent (Type 1) diabetic patients of similar age (20 without complications; 19 with laser-treated retinopathy; 13 with reduced vibration perception and retinopathy) were studied in order to investigate the possible attenuation of this defence mechanism in diabetes. 3. The maximal (1 mA) flare response [control median (interquartile range): 1.55 (1.16-2.06) arbitrary units] was reduced greatly in neuropathic patients [0.37 (0.24-0.66) arbitrary units; P less than or equal to 0.001 with respect to all other groups], especially those with a previous history of foot ulceration. The flare was also reduced in some patients with retinopathy alone [1.06 (0.56-1.27) arbitrary units; P less than 0.005 with respect to control subjects]. 4. No rightward shift of the curve of hyperaemic response plotted against current strength was found, suggesting that the abnormal response was due to axonal loss rather than to dysfunction. 5. Neurogenic inflammation, mediated by small pain fibres, was markedly impaired in a group of diabetic patients at risk of foot ulceration. Furthermore, impairment of this nociceptor C fibre response can develop before clinical large-fibre neuropathy and could itself predispose to foot complications. 
Sex differences in the perception of noxious heat stimuli. This study compared pain perception in young male and female subjects, using experimental noxious heat stimuli. During 2 sessions, each of 40 subjects rated the magnitude of 120 heat stimuli, ranging from 45 degrees C to 50 degrees C. The study included a comparison of visual analogue and magnitude matching rating procedures, as well as a test of simulated analgesia, in which the range of stimuli presented during the 2 experimental sessions was shifted by 1 degree C. We found that females rated noxious heat stimuli as more intense than did males, independent of the gender of the experimenter or the type of rating scale. In addition, the data suggest that females discriminate among the painful heat intensities better than males. For example, female subjects showed significant between-session discrimination of noxious heat stimuli, while male subjects did not, and females produced steeper within-session stimulus-response functions than did males. These observed differences in nociceptive discrimination between males and females indicate that the sex-related variation in pain perception is probably related to sensory factors rather than differences in attitude or emotional response. 
Ridogrel in the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. The safety of the combination of heparin and ridogrel therapy and its antiplatelet efficacy was examined in the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). In 32 patients without known aspirin intake for 10 days before PTCA, therapy with ridogrel (300-mg intravenous bolus) was begun just before PTCA and continued orally at a dose of 300 mg twice daily until discharge. Heparin was administered as a 10,000 IU bolus dose before PTCA and followed by an intravenous infusion at a rate of 1,000 IU/hour for 24 hours. Bleeding problems at the arterial entry site occurred in 13 patients, which required a blood transfusion in only 2 patients. One patient underwent emergency bypass surgery without specific problems of hemostasis. Ridogrel virtually eliminated thromboxane B2 from the serum (29,990 +/- 6,555 pg/0.1 ml before vs 63 +/- 7 pg/0.1 ml at 2 hours after ridogrel), with a concomitant increase in serum 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (511 +/- 34 pg/0.1 ml before vs 1,190 +/- 146 pg/0.1 ml at 24 hours after ridogrel). There were no acute reocclusions in the ridogrel-treated patients, whereas acute reocclusions occurred in 5.6% of the patients taking the standard aspirin + heparin regimen during the same period. Furthermore, at 6-month clinical follow-up patients treated with ridogrel compared favorably with those receiving standard treatment. 
Diagnostic and therapeutic strategies of white clot syndrome. This study describes our experience with 12 patients with white clot syndrome encountered during a recent 36-month period. The diagnosis was based on the following criteria: (1) development of thrombocytopenia of less than 100,000/mm3 during administration of heparin therapy, (2) normalization of the platelet count after an interruption in heparin therapy, (3) exclusion of other causes of thrombocytopenia, (4) a positive heparin-induced platelet aggregation test, (5) detection of white clots on pathologic examination, and (6) the presence of thrombotic complications. Of 2,500 patients who received heparin therapy, 12 (0.48%) developed white clot syndrome. Various indications, routes of administration, and types of heparin were implicated. The mean platelet nadir was 26,900/mm3, and the mean time to onset of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was 5 days. Thrombotic complications included arterial occlusions of the legs in 11 patients, deep vein thrombosis of the legs in 9 patients (4 had pulmonary embolism), and combined arterial and venous thrombosis in 8 patients. Treatment strategies included discontinuation of heparin in all patients and intravenous infusion of dextran, followed by arterial thrombectomy in four patients, urokinase therapy in two patients for arterial complications, and insertion of Greenfield filters in six patients. All patients were given warfarin. The mortality rate was 25% and the morbidity rate was 50%. An initial platelet count should be obtained on all patients prior to receiving heparin, followed by repeat platelet counts every 2 to 3 days. Once thrombocytopenia or thrombosis is diagnosed, heparin should be discontinued and other methods of therapy considered. 
Lower urinary tract reconstruction following cystectomy: experience and results in 126 patients using the Kock ileal reservoir with bilateral ureteroileal urethrostomy. Between May 1986 and February 1990, 126 consecutive men underwent lower urinary tract reconstruction by means of bilateral ureteroileal urethrostomy using a Kock ileal reservoir. The early complication rate was 11.1%. Late complications requiring rehospitalization or reoperation have been surprisingly few: 1 for prolapse of the afferent antirefluxing nipple valve, 1 for calculi and 4 for artificial urinary sphincter placement due to unsatisfactory continence. Good continence has been achieved in 94% of the patients during the day and in 84% at night. Tumor recurred in the pelvis in 5 patients, with 4 requiring cutaneous urinary diversion. All patients had progression or died of metastatic disease. Our experience has yielded extraordinary results in terms of patient acceptance with few late complications or need for reoperation. 
Functional results after total or near total glossectomy with laryngeal preservation. Locally advanced tongue cancer is a devastating disease for which there are limited therapeutic options that will result in a high rate of cure while preserving function. To determine the oncologic effectiveness of total or near total glossectomy with laryngeal preservation and the possibility of speech and swallowing rehabilitation following treatment, we reviewed our experience with 27 patients treated between 1982 and 1989. Twenty-four patients were eligible for 2-year follow-up and their disease-specific survival was 51%. Swallowing was achieved initially in 18 patients (67%), while 12 had successful long-term deglutition (44%). Oral communication was accomplished in 25 patients (92%). Significant aspiration occurred in three patients and was severe enough to require interval laryngectomy in two patients. The role of laryngeal suspension, palatal augmentation prosthesis, and videofluoroscopy as rehabilitation adjuncts for the total glossectomy patient are described. 
Retrospective analysis of the incidence of pulmonary disease in hypogammaglobulinemia. To determine the best predictors of chronic pulmonary disease in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia, we evaluated the clinical records, chest x-ray films, and pulmonary function tests of 10 patients with X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA) followed for a mean of 12.5 years, and 12 patients with common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) followed for a mean of 10.5 years. These patients, most of whom were treated with intramuscular gamma globulin and long-term oral antibiotics, had very few pneumonias after diagnosis. The patients with XLA had 0.10 pneumonias per treatment year, and the patients with CVID had 0.18 pneumonias per treatment year. Seven of the 10 patients with XLA had normal chest x-ray films 8 to 15 years after diagnosis, and none had bronchiectasis. Pulmonary disease was more common and more severe in the group with CVID, but five patients in this group also had normal chest x-ray films after long follow-up. In the entire group of 22 patients, nine of the 10 patients with abnormal chest x-ray films on most recent evaluation already had pulmonary disease at the initial visit (p = 0.00002). These studies indicate that the best predictors of good pulmonary function in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia are early diagnosis and good compliance with gamma globulin replacement therapy and oral antibiotics. 
Stage I seminoma of the testis. Adjuvant radiotherapy or surveillance? Lately the role of radiotherapy in stage I seminoma of the testis has been questioned by some authors who reported on a "surveillance" strategy for these patients. Since 1980, 124 patients with seminoma of the testis have been referred to this institution; 97 of 116 patients analysed presented with stage I disease and 10 of these had elevated levels of beta HCG. A total of 64 patients were given radiotherapy after orchiectomy and 33 entered a surveillance protocol. After a median follow-up of 48 months, 3 patients in the surveillance group relapsed after 5, 13 and 49 months and 2 of the irradiated patients did so after 25 and 33 months. Elevation of beta HCG was not significant because none of these patients showed progression. A low rate of progression and excellent survival are associated with standard treatment (orchiectomy and radiotherapy) and good results have been achieved with chemotherapy in cases of relapse. A surveillance policy is not recommended in stage I seminoma because of its slower growth compared with non-seminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCT), the absence of a specific tumour marker, the 10% risk of occult metastases and the 3-fold higher progression rate compared with irradiated patients. We suggest the use of a reduced dosage and radiation field. 
Remodeling of ventricular conduction pathways in healed canine infarct border zones. Remodeling of myocyte interconnections may be an important determinant of ventricular tachycardia in regions bordering healed infarcts. We used quantitative electron microscopy to characterize the distribution of gap junctions in 10 canine left ventricles 3-10 wk after coronary occlusion. In three normal canine left ventricles analyzed ultrastructurally, myocardial gap junctions were distributed anisotropically; gap junction profile length was significantly greater in the transverse than in longitudinal planes of section. In infarct border zone tissues, the normal anisotropic distribution was completely abolished and fewer gap junctions per unit intercalated disk length were observed. Analysis of individual gap junction profile length distributions revealed selective disruption of the largest gap junctions that collectively comprised only 9.6% of total junction profiles, but encompassed nearly 40% of aggregate gap junction length in the transverse plane of section. Three-dimensional reconstructions of myocyte interconnections by high resolution quantitative light microscopy of serial sections demonstrated a reduction in the number of cells connected by intercalated disks to a single myocyte from 11.2 +/- 1.0 in normal myocardium to 6.5 +/- 1.3 in border zone tissues (P less than 0.001). Connections of cells in primarily side-to-side apposition were reduced by 75%, whereas primarily end-to-end connections were reduced by only 22% (P less than 0.05). These alterations would disproportionately enhance axial resistivity in the transverse direction, potentially contributing to development of reentrant arrhythmias. 
Bilateral impairment of somesthetically mediated object recognition in humans Thirty adult patients (six in each of five groups--neurologically normal, lacunar infarct-related hemiparesis, unilateral thalamic lacunar infarction, right cortical infarction with mild left hemineglect, and extensive right cortical infarction with severe left hemineglect) were asked to perform various tasks that encompassed basic and intermediate somatosensory functions and tactile and visual object recognition. Patients with thalamic and cortical infarctions had severe impairment of contralateral hand-mediated somatosensory functions in all three categories of somesthetic tasks, although patients with cortical infarction were more impaired on the object recognition task than were patients with thalamic infarction. Patients with extensive damage to the right hemisphere and severe left hemineglect also had impairment of somesthetically mediated object recognition in the ipsilateral hand despite normal basic and intermediate somatosensory function and visually mediated object recognition analogous to unilateral tactile agnosia. All other groups had normal ipsilateral tactile object recognition. 
Single-lung transplantation with atrial septal defect repair for Eisenmenger's syndrome. Heart-lung transplantation has been used successfully for patients with pulmonary vascular disease but its application has been very limited due to the scarcity of donors. We report a patient with Eisenmenger's syndrome who underwent right single-lung transplantation with closure of atrial septal defect; postoperative convalescence was uneventful. Serial magnetic resonance imaging examinations demonstrate improved right heart function. 
Toxic shock syndrome associated with pharyngitis and submandibular space abscess. Toxic shock syndrome continues to be encountered more frequently with the head and neck areas as sources of the toxin. In head and neck surgery practice it is most commonly noted following nasal packing. An unusual case associated with staphylococcal pharyngitis and spontaneous submandibular space abscess is reported and the literature concerning the subject is reviewed. Treatment is eradication of the infective focus, aggressive support of vital functions, and parenteral antistaphylococcal antibiotics. 
Hepatic focal nodular hyperplasia: specific findings at dynamic contrast-enhanced US with carbon dioxide microbubbles. Dynamic contrast material-enhanced ultrasonography (US) with intraarterial infusion of carbon dioxide microbubbles was performed for four cases of histologically proved focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) in four patients and for 167 cases of various hepatic nodules in 144 patients. No complications due to dynamic US were observed in any of the 148 patients. All FNH nodules were less than 3 cm in diameter. Consistent specific findings of FNH were not obtained with US, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, radiocolloid scanning, or angiography in the four cases of FNH. In contrast, the characteristic vascular pattern (ie, early central hypervascular supply with centrifugal filling to the periphery at the arterial phase and a uniform or lobulated dense stain at the capillary phase) was observed in all four cases of FNH with dynamic US. This vascular pattern demonstrated in FNH with dynamic US was not seen in any of the 167 hepatic nodules, including 44 small hepatocellular carcinomas less than 3 cm in diameter. Therefore, the newly developed, dynamic contrast-enhanced US technique seems to be extremely sensitive and specific for diagnosing FNH and is useful in the differentiation of FNH from other hepatic tumors, especially hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Expression of mdr-1/P-glycoprotein in human neuroblastoma. Increased expression of the mdr-1 gene encoding the drug efflux pump P-glycoprotein is a well-established mediator of acquired drug resistance in vitro, and a similar role has been hypothesized in vivo in human malignancy. Because expression of mdr-1 is increased in neuroblastoma cell lines by differentiating agents, the authors hypothesized a similar correlation with differentiation in vivo in neuroblastomas. In 12 tumors from 11 patients, total RNA analysis demonstrated no correlation with differentiation, but a correlation could be detected in the cell-based methods of analysis. The very primitive 'stroma'-poor, poorly differentiated neuroblastomas had low levels of mdr-1/P-glycoprotein. The intermediate grades had higher levels of expression and although heterogeneity of differentiation appeared within these tumors, both primitive and more differentiated cells expressed the gene at comparable levels within the tumor. One very well-differentiated neuroblastoma, a ganglioneuroma, had no detectable expression in the neurofibrillary material, but demonstrated expression in adjacent large ganglionic cells. Thus mdr-1/P-glycoprotein expression increased with increasing differentiation among tumors, and was present in ganglionic cells in the most well-differentiated tumor. The three tumors with the highest levels of expression were obtained from patients who received preoperative chemotherapy. 
Pathophysiological basis for noninvasive functional evaluation of coronary stenosis. A number of tests are used for the noninvasive detection of coronary stenosis, which results from the combination of different stimuli (exercise, pacing, dobutamine, dipyridamole, etc.) and different signals and methodologies (ECG, echocardiography, scintigraphy). In this article, the theoretical assumptions for and the methodological limitations of the functional evaluation of the degree of coronary stenosis are considered within the framework of pathophysiology. In particular, the issues of dilating coronary circulation by either increasing myocardial O2 demand or infusing dipyridamole and of assessing coronary reserve by either flow- or ischemia-related techniques are examined. In addition, the hypotheses of a physiological blood steal during exercise, a decrement of exercise ischemic threshold secondary to additional pharmacological vasodilation, and coronary vasospasm in Prinzmetal's angina patients, following the sequence dipyridamole-aminophylline, are discussed on the basis of preliminary studies. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. Systemic and regional hemodynamics in rats and humans. The systemic and regional hemodynamic effects of angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) have been investigated using different experimental methods (pulsed Doppler, radioactive microspheres), either in rats (normotensive NT or genetically hypertensive SHRs) or in humans (healthy volunteers or patients with congestive heart failure CHF). All ACEIs decreased systemic vascular resistance but the profile of their peripheral vasodilating properties was heterogeneous. ACEI-induced vasodilation primarily affected the kidney in rats and in humans and this effect was accompanied by a strong and consistent increase in renal blood flow. This occurred even at non-hypotensive doses in SHRs and CHF patients and resulted in a favorable redistribution of cardiac output towards the kidney. In the muscular vascular bed, ACEIs also decreased local vascular resistance in rats and in humans, whether normotensive or hypertensive. In humans, this vasodilation affected both the arterioles and the large conductance vessels, more markedly in CHF patients than in normotensive subjects. Muscular blood flow was increased and a favorable redistribution of cardiac output towards the muscle occurred. Cerebral blood flow in SHRs and carotid blood flow in humans were augmented, whereas hepatosplanchnic blood flow was increased in rats but not modified in humans. There was no major difference between the regional vasodilating profiles of the different ACEIs, but captopril was somewhat less active at the muscular level. In conclusion, ACEI-induced regional vasodilation is heterogeneous, preferentially affecting the kidney and the muscle. In the latter, both arterioles and large conductance vessels are dilated. 
Milk-induced malabsorption in malnourished African patients. Fifty malnourished rural African patients were randomly assigned to whole milk (50 g lactose/L), acidified milk (24 g lactose/L), or a commercial lactose-free diet (LFD) as a constant nasogastric infusion for 3 d, starting at 2 L/d and increasing to 3 L/d if tolerated. During the first 2 d mild symptoms of intolerance developed in 63% of patients on whole milk, 37% on acidified milk, and 54% on LFD whereas severe intolerance, necessitating withdrawal, was encountered in 22% receiving whole milk and none receiving LFD. Stool weights and fat excretion on day 3 were greater (P less than 0.02) in the remaining milk-fed patients whereas nitrogen balance remained strongly positive in all three groups. Eighty-seven percent of patients were methane producers, and high excretion rates were associated with better milk tolerance. The results suggest that although undiluted cow milk will not form a suitable tube feed for malnourished African patients, products such as acidified milk may prove cost effective. 
Transabdominal cervicoisthmic cerclage: a reappraisal 25 years after its introduction. Most cerclage operations for cervical insufficiency are performed transvaginally. The transabdominal route is beneficial in treating patients with cervices that are either extremely short, congenitally deformed, deeply lacerated, or markedly scarred because of previously failed transvaginal cerclage procedures. The average gestational age at surgery was 11.5 weeks and the operation was performed after early ultrasonographic verification of fetal viability. Patients with advanced cervical effacement or dilatation in the second trimester were excluded. A 5 mm wide Mersilene band was applied in an avascular space above the junction of the cervix and the uterine isthmus without dissection or tunneling among broad ligament vessels. This simplified surgical approach resulted in little operative blood loss (mean, 75 ml; range, 50 to 200 ml). After transabdominal cervicoisthmic cerclage, 21 pregnancies in 20 patients resulted in 18 term births, one premature birth with favorable outcome, and two early fetal deaths (90% salvage rate). A review of the world literature indicated 130 pregnancies with transabdominal cervicoisthmic cerclage during pregnancy and a cumulative success rate of 89%. Preconceptional transabdominal cervicoisthmic cerclage was reported in 30 pregnancies with an overall fetal survival rate of 81%. A survey of specialists in maternal-fetal medicine indicated an increasing interest and familiarity with transabdominal cervicoisthmic cerclage since its introduction more than two decades ago although this procedure is still not widely applied in obstetric practice. 
The incidence of attempted CPR in nursing homes. We studied the frequency with which cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is attempted on residents of American nursing homes. Each author (all members of the Clinical Practice Committee of the American Geriatrics Society) completed a questionnaire in 1989 about policy and practice regarding CPR during 1988 in each of three to seven nursing homes, by questioning the medical or nursing director or the administrator. Because of the vagaries of nursing home record-keeping, data from some homes were allowed when they were "accurate to within 10%." Data from 58 nursing homes, totalling 10,836 bed-years were available. In 33 of these homes, accounting for 5,425 bed-years, CPR was never attempted. CPR was more likely to be foregone in nursing homes with religious affiliation than in nursing homes without (13 of 17 vs 18 of 38; chi 2 = 4.0; P less than 0.05). Religious affiliation was unknown for three nursing homes. Academic affiliation (10 of 16 vs 20 of 37 in non-affiliated nursing homes) and non-profit status (14 of 19 vs 16 of 23 in for-profit nursing homes) did not significantly affect the likelihood that CPR would never be used. In 31 of 54 nursing homes with explicit do not resuscitate (DNR) policies, CPR was never performed, compared to 2 of 4 homes without such policies. For nursing homes with complete data, there were 1,196 deaths in 32 facilities where CPR was never attempted compared to 1,294 deaths for 24 nursing homes with CPR. For 22 nursing homes without CPR, there were 2,172 emergency room transfers compared to 1,363 emergency room transfers in 18 nursing homes where CPR was attempted. 
High-dose cyclophosphamide, carmustine, and etoposide followed by autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation for patients with relapsed Hodgkin's disease. Between February 1986 and March 1990, 56 patients with relapsed Hodgkin's disease treated with high-dose cyclophosphamide, carmustine, and etoposide (CBV) received an autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation (PSCT) rather than an autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) because each patient had a marrow abnormality, either hypocellularity or tumor involvement. At least 6.5 x 10(9) mononuclear cells/kg patient weight were collected from the peripheral blood of each patient, cyropreserved, and returned intravenously following CBV administration. Three patients had an early death 2, 22, and 25 days after PSCT. The actuarial event-free survival for these 56 patients at 3 years was 37% and was at least as good as that reported for relapsed Hodgkin's disease patients treated with CBV and ABMT. The 30 patients who had no marrow metastases at the time of PSC harvesting had an actuarial event-free survival of 47%, while those 26 patients with marrow metastases had a significantly different actuarial event-free survival of 27% (P = .02). CBV and PSCT for patients with relapsed Hodgkin's diseases who have marrow hypocellularity in traditional harvest sites or histopathologic evidence of BM metastases can result in long-term event-free survival. 
Benign and malignant adrenal masses: CT distinction with attenuation coefficients, size, and observer analysis. In a retrospective study of adrenal masses evaluated with computed tomography (CT), lesion x-ray attenuation was compared with size and radiologists' interpretations in discriminating benign lesions from malignant ones. Unenhanced CT attenuation coefficient and size were analyzed electronically in 55 patients with 66 adrenal masses. There were 38 nonhyperfunctioning adenomas in 33 patients and 28 malignant masses in 22 patients. Primary extraadrenal malignancies were present in 45 of the 55 patients. Three blinded readers characterized the adrenal masses using a seven-point scale of certainty. Results were subjected to receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The mean CT attenuation coefficient for benign adrenal masses was -2.2 HU +/- 16.0 and was significantly different from the mean for malignant lesions (28.9 HU +/- 10.6). The area under the ROC curve for CT attenuation coefficients (0.91 +/- 0.04) was significantly larger than that for lesion size (0.84 +/- 0.05) or best observer interpretation (0.84 +/- 0.05). A threshold CT attenuation value of 0 HU had a sensitivity-to-specificity ratio of 47%:100% for characterizing benign adrenal masses, whereas a threshold attenuation of 10 HU had a ratio of 79%:96%. 
Inactive subretinal neovascularization in age-related macular degeneration. Inactive subretinal new vessels (SRNVs), showing minimal leakage by fluorescein angiography and little progression, were observed in 15 eyes of 12 patients with age-related macular degeneration. In 8 (57%) of 14 eyes followed for longer than 6 months, the new vessels involuted and produced circumscribed areas of retinal pigment epithelium and choriocapillaris atrophy; 6 (43%) showed a further decrease in the fluorescein leakage during the follow-up period (average, 30.1 months). None of the new vessels organized into an exudative fibrovascular scar. Visual acuity was improved or unchanged during the entire follow-up period in 12 (86%) eyes and deteriorated in 2 (14%). Nine patients (75%) were 80 years of age or older; three (25%) were between 65 and 70 years of age. These observations suggested that SRNV showing minimal fluorescein leakage, particularly when it occurs in patients older than 80 years, do not require photocoagulation because they are usually self-limited. 
Patterns of mortality in sickle cell disease in the United Kingdom. Eighteen of 384 patients entered on the Brent sickle cell disease register died between 1974 and 1989, a mortality of one per 128 years of follow up. Two children died from acute splenic sequestration and a third died from fulminant pneumococcal septicaemia: none was taking prophylactic penicillin. Acute chest syndrome was the cause of death in eight young adults and one child. Three deaths occurred after surgery. Cerebrovascular accidents contributed to the cause of death in three cases and there were two sudden unexplained deaths. Ten of the deaths occurred at home or within 24 hours of admission to hospital. Post mortem examinations were made in 14 cases, but the histological appearances of acute chest syndrome were often not recognised. In most cases for whom information was available, the cause of death (chest syndrome, pneumococcal sepsis, postoperative complications) could have been prevented. 
The effect of theophylline on hypoxic, hypercapnic hamster diaphragm muscle in vitro. Hypoxic, hypercapnic acidosis (HHA) decreases tension and enhances fatigue in hamster diaphragm in vitro. We hypothesized that theophylline would decrease the harmful effect of HHA. Hamster diaphragm strips were studied in Krebs solution aerated with 21% O2 and 12% CO2. The force-frequency responses and the tension and relaxation of brief, submaximal contractions were studied. Mild fatigue was produced by a series of 45 submaximal contractions, after which recovery of force was followed for 15 min. Theophylline (0.55 mM) was added at the time of exposure to HHA (early theophylline) in half the strips and at the end of the fatigue run (late theophylline) in the others. In contrast to our hypothesis, early theophylline had a limited effect on force production in unfatigued HHA diaphragm strips and resulted in lower force production in the recovery period. Late theophylline improved force in the recovery period for low-frequency contractions. Thus the effect of theophylline in the setting of HHA depended on the time it was added and was beneficial only if added after the muscle stopped contracting. 
Congenital keratinizing desquamative squamous epithelium of the entire urinary tract. We report the clinical and pathological findings of a case of congenital desquamative squamous epithelium of the entire urinary tract associated with body dysmorphism. This entity has not been described previously in the literature. 
Seminal polyamines as agents of cervical carcinoma: production of aneuploidy in squamous epithelium. The effects of several polyamines found in seminal fluid on the cell cycle and ploidy of three cervical cell lines and of primary epithelial cells cultured from cervical biopsy specimens were monitored by fluorescent flow cytometry. The rate of cell growth did not change but there were indications of either hypodiploidy or hyperdiploidy in some cultures at certain concentrations of spermine and spermidine. An interaction of exogenous polyamines with the DNA of cervical cells was shown to occur, leading to changes in ploidy with, perhaps, the potential to induce or promote dysplasia. 
Intracellular pH in rat resistance arteries during the development of experimental hypertension. 1. In order to examine the effects of experimental hypertension on intracellular pH in mesenteric resistance arteries, intracellular pH was measured in mesenteric resistance arteries from rats with coarctation 72 h, 9 days and 28 days after the aorta was partially constricted between the origins of the renal arteries. Carotid arterial pressure was significantly raised at all time points. 2. Second-order mesenteric resistance arteries were mounted in a myograph and were loaded with the acetoxymethyl ester of the pH-sensitive dye 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein. Morphological measurements demonstrated that arteries from rats with coarctation had an increased media volume at 9 days and at 28 days compared with vessels from sham-operated control animals, but this was only statistically significant at 28 days. 3. Resting intracellular pH was not significantly different at any time point in arteries from rats with coarctation compared with control animals, although there was a rise in intracellular pH in both groups of rats between 72 h and 9 days. The application of 4,4-di-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid produced a fall in intracellular pH which was significantly greater in the sham-operated rats at 9 days; this difference was not found at 28 days. Blockade of Na+/H+ exchange with 60 mumol/l ethylisopropylamiloride led to a similar fall in intracellular pH in both groups of rats at 9 days but a significantly greater fall in intracellular pH in arteries of rats with coarctation at 28 days. Activation with noradrenaline (10 mumol/l) induced acid changes in intracellular pH that were similar in both groups of rats. 
Prognostic factors in Japanese patients with colorectal cancer: the significance of large bowel obstruction--univariate and multivariate analyses. In order to define prognostic factors in colorectal carcinoma, univariate and multivariate analyses were carried out on data from 113 Japanese patients treated in a typical general hospital in Japan. In the univariate analysis, a poor prognosis was seen in those with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, in tumors that perforated the visceral peritoneum or that invaded directly other organs or structures (T4), in metastasis to the nodes along the main vascular pedicle (N3), in lymphatic permeation, in blood vessel invasion, in peritoneal dissemination, in Dukes C stage, and in those with lesions presenting with large bowel obstruction. Of these, only lymph node metastasis and peritoneal dissemination had an independent prognostic significance when a multivariate Cox analysis was performed. The significant risk factors related to an obstructing tumor were determined by multivariate logistic regression analysis. The significant variables were patient's age, nodal involvement and peritoneal dissemination. Since lymph node metastasis and peritoneal dissemination proved significant in both multivariate analyses, we propose that the presence of large bowel obstruction is not an independent prognostic factor in patients with colorectal carcinoma. In poor-risk patients who have an obstructing tumor, a staged operation should be attempted for definitive curative surgery. 
Incremental spinal anaesthesia using a 32-gauge catheter. Incremental spinal anaesthesia using a 32-gauge intrathecal catheter was studied in 13 males scheduled for transurethral resection of the prostate or repair of inguinal hernia. The spinal technique failed in four patients. Dose-response curves were obtained in the remaining nine patients using increments of 0.5% plain bupivacaine. The spinal block was extended safely and reliably without cardiovascular instability. No patient had any postoperative headache and all catheters were removed intact. 
Molecular cloning of PC3, a putatively secreted protein whose mRNA is induced by nerve growth factor and depolarization. PC3 is an immediate early gene induced by nerve growth factor in PC12 cells, a cell line derived from a tumor of the adrenal medulla that undergoes neuronal differentiation in the presence of nerve growth factor. This induction is independent of new protein synthesis as it can occur in the presence of cycloheximide. PC3 is also induced with similar kinetics, but at lower levels, by membrane depolarization (both in vivo and in vitro) and epidermal growth factor. It is induced at much lower levels by fibroblast growth factor and interleukin 6. In vivo it is found expressed in tissues, such as brain at embryonic day 13.5, placenta, amnion, and spleen, which are proliferating and/or differentiating. The deduced protein sequence from the cDNA indicates the presence of a signal peptide, suggesting that PC3 is secreted. 
Diagnostic imaging of heterotopic ossification with coexistent deep-venous thrombosis in flaccid paraplegia. Heterotopic ossification and deep-venous thrombosis can coexist. This raises potential problems because diagnosis depends heavily on imaging studies, and an ideal imaging study which will cost-effectively and noninvasively diagnose both conditions simultaneously is not readily available. A case of coexistent heterotopic ossification and deep-venous thrombosis in flaccid paraplegia is presented. In this case, deep-venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolus were diagnosed and treatment was begun without knowledge of the coexistent heterotopic ossification. Alternative imaging and laboratory diagnostic strategies are discussed. It was concluded that, at this time, clinical acumen and judicious use of traditional diagnostic alternatives is the best means of selecting appropriate treatment. Awareness of the coexistence of the two conditions are careful attention to the patient's clinical course can minimize treatment delays and resultant morbidity. 
Evaluation of combined systemic aspirin and cromolyn sodium in intractable vernal catarrh. The steroids in vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC) are not always effective and may result in glaucoma. Cromolyn sodium inhibits degranulation from mast cells, thus preventing release of prostaglandins and the mediators of inflammation when used topically. Aspirin, which blocks the production of inflammation-producing prostaglandins in mast cells released in VKC, especially prostaglandin D2, was used orally in 11 patients with intractable VKC of mixed type with limbal predominance. The chi 2 test of combined therapy showed a significant improvement in itching, lacrimation, and limbal edema (P less than .005) and improved photophobia, palpebral lesions, and corneal staining (P less than .02) at six weeks. 
Sarcoidosis of the CNS: comparison of unenhanced and enhanced MR images. Sarcoidosis involving the CNS has a predilection for the leptomeninges, although parenchymal involvement occurs. We retrospectively evaluated the appearance of CNS sarcoidosis on unenhanced and enhanced MR images. MR studies were abnormal in 17 of 20 patients with CNS sarcoidosis. In all 17 patients, meningeal disease was detected on the gadopentetate-dimeglumine-enhanced T1-weighted images; the disease was detected on unenhanced images in three patients. Well-defined leptomeningeal patterns of enhancement were present in 15 patients. Other areas of involvement were the dura; brain parenchyma including hypothalamus, periventricular white matter, and ventricular ependyma; optic chiasm; and pituitary gland. Gadopentetate dimeglumine optimally evaluates meningeal disease and highlights the importance of the leptomeninges and Virchow-Robin spaces in the pathogenesis of CNS sarcoidosis. Enhanced MR is the preferred imaging technique for the evaluation of CNS sarcoidosis. 
Obesity and cardiovascular risk intervention through the ad libitum feeding of traditional Hawaiian diet. The Waianae Diet Program is a community-based intervention strategy designed to be culturally appropriate by using a pre-Western-contact Hawaiian diet to reduce chronic-disease risk factors in Native Hawaiians. This paper describes a trial of the traditional Hawaiian diet fed ad libitum to Native Hawaiians with multiple risk factors for cardiovascular disease to assess its effect on obesity and cardiovascular risk factors. Twenty Native Hawaiians were placed on a pre-Western-contact Hawaiian diet for 21 d. The diet was low in fat (7%), high in complex carbohydrates (78%), and moderate in protein (15%). Participants were encouraged to eat to satiety. Average energy intake decreased from 10.86 MJ (2594 kcal)/d to 6.57 MJ (1569 kcal)/d. Average weight loss was 7.8 kg (P less than 0.0001) and average serum cholesterol decreased 0.81 mmol/L (P less than 0.001) from 5.76 to 4.95 mmol/L. Blood pressure decreased an average of 11.5 mm Hg systolic (P less than 0.001) and 8.9 mm Hg diastolic (P less than 0.001). 
A phase II evaluation of menogaril in cisplatin-refractory advanced ovarian carcinoma. A collaborative trial of the North Central Cancer Treatment Group and the Mayo Clinic. Forty-one women with advanced, recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinoma (in whom prior chemotherapy with a platinum-based regimen failed) were treated with menogaril 200 mg/m2 intravenously every 4 weeks in a Phase II trial. Partial responses were seen in two of 19 (10.5%) measurable disease patients and three of 12 (25%) nonmeasurable but evaluable patients, an overall objective response rate of 16.1% (95% confidence interval, 5% to 34%). Median time to progression for all patients was 2 months and median survival, 5 months. Toxicities were acceptable and consisted primarily of leukopenia and gastrointestinal toxicity. Twenty-nine percent of the patients had venous irritation or painful phlebitis at the intravenous injection site. Menogaril, as administered in this protocol, had modest antineoplastic activity in previously treated ovarian carcinoma patients. The responses were of short duration, and there appeared to be no survival advantage with menogaril treatment. 
Factors influencing postoperative urinary retention in patients undergoing elective inguinal herniorrhaphy. We retrospectively studied 295 men who had undergone herniorrhaphy under spinal or general endotracheal anesthesia to determine the incidence of postoperative urinary retention and to assess factors influencing it. The type and location of hernia had no effect on retention. In contrast, the use of general anesthesia, patient age above 53 years, and perioperative administration of more than 1,200 mL of fluid were significantly associated with an increase in retention. Our results suggest that urinary retention after herniorrhaphy may be prevented by limiting the amount of fluid given perioperatively and by using a spinal anesthetic, especially in older patients. 
Effects of felodipine ER and hydrochlorothiazide on blood rheology in essential hypertension--a randomized, double-blind, crossover study. The haemorheological effects of felodipine extended release (ER), a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, were compared with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in 28 mild to moderate hypertensives (18 men and 10 women, aged 30-70 years) in a randomized, double-blind, crossover trial. Antihypertensive drugs were gradually discontinued. Felodipine Er, 10 mg, was given once daily for 2 weeks, and after another wash-out period of 1 week, patients were switched to 25 mg HCTZ, once daily, and vice versa. Whole blood viscosity (BV) at three different shear stresses, haematocrit (Hct), plasma viscosity (PV), red blood cell (RBC) aggregation, RBC deformability, and fibrinogen were measured under standardized conditions 2.5 h after medication, and after 2 week of treatment (24 h post-dosing). Felodipine ER improved BV acutely, but not during treatment over a 2-week period. By contrast, HCTZ did not affect BV, but decreased RBC deformability 2.5 h after medication intake. After 2 weeks of treatment, the negative effect on RBC deformability had increased slightly. Furthermore, fibrinogen and PV were significantly elevated at this stage. In summary, felodipine ER did not improve blood rheology over a 2-week treatment period in this study. HCTZ exhibited marginal but significant negative effects on fibrinogen, PV and indices of RBC deformability, but not on RBC aggregation. 
Effect of hemoglobin concentration on maximal O2 uptake in canine gastrocnemius muscle in situ. O2 delivery to maximally working muscle was decreased by altering hemoglobin (Hb) concentration and arterial PO2 (PaO2) to investigate whether the reductions in maximal O2 uptake (VO2max) that occur with lowered [Hb] are in part related to changes in the effective muscle O2 diffusing capacity (DmO2). Two sets of experiments were conducted. In the initial set (n = 8), three levels of Hb [5.8 +/- 0.3, 9.4 +/- 0.1, and 14.4 +/- 0.6 (SE) g/100 ml] in the blood were used in random order to pump perfuse, at equal muscle blood flows and PaO2, maximally working isolated dog gastrocnemius muscle. VO2max declined with decreasing [Hb], but the relationship between VO2max and both the effluent venous PO2 (PvO2) and the calculated mean capillary PO2 (PcO2) was not linear through the origin and, therefore, not compatible with a single value of DmO2 (as calculated by Bohr integration using a model based on Fick's law of diffusion). To clarify these results, a second set of experiments (n = 6) was conducted in which two levels of Hb (14.0 +/- 0.6 and 6.9 +/- 0.6 g/100 ml) were each combined with two levels of oxygenation (PaO2 79 +/- 8 and 29 +/- 2 Torr) and applied in random sequence to again pump perfuse maximally working dog gastrocnemius muscle at constant blood flow. In these experiments, the relationship between VO2max and both PvO2 and calculated PcO2 for each [Hb] was consistent with a constant estimate of DmO2 as PaO2 was reduced, but the calculated DmO2 for the lower [Hb] was 33% less than that at the higher [Hb] (P less than 0.05). 
Group-specific serum antibody responses in children with primary and recurrent respiratory syncytial virus infections. Antigenic group-specific serum antibody responses to first and second respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections were studied in children who had been followed longitudinally from early infancy in a research day-care center. Plaque-reduction neutralizing (PRN) antibody assays and ELISAs for the fusion (F) and attachment (G) glycoproteins were done using antigens of prototype RSV strains from groups A and B. Responses to antigens of viruses homologous and heterologous to the antigenic group of the infecting viral strain were compared. Primary group A infection elicited antibodies cross-reactive with group B virus in the PRNB and the ELISAS for GB and FB. In contrast, primary group B infection induced significant increases in mean concentrations of antibody cross-reactive with group A virus only in the FA ELISA. Second RSV infections caused by group B viruses in children with histories of primary group A infection induced heterologous rises in the PRNA and GA assays, suggesting that prior group A infection had primed for a more extensive cross-reacting antibody response at the time of second RSV infections with group B viruses. 
Evaluation of restenosis after balloon dilatation in adult aortic stenosis by repeat catheterization. To evaluate the restenosis rate after successful balloon aortic valvuloplasty, clinical evaluation and repeat catheterization were performed in 96 patients who had undergone balloon dilatation 7 +/- 5 months earlier. Restenosis, defined as a loss of greater than 50% of the benefit in aortic valve area obtained after balloon valvuloplasty, was observed in 48% of the patients. Actuarial analysis showed that the restenosis rate was time dependent and was 80% at 15 months. However, functional improvement was observed in most of the patients with or without restenosis. The restenosis rate was not correlated with the degree of enlargement of the aortic orifice produced by the valvuloplasty procedure. Because of the high incidence of restenosis, balloon aortic valvuloplasty should be limited to patients who have a contraindication to surgery or are at high risk for surgery, or as a bridge to surgery. 
Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome in morbidly obese patients. Twenty-seven morbidly obese patients (13 men and 14 women) with body mass index greater than or equal to 40 kg m-2 were examined. The mean age of the subjects was 36.9 +/- 8.2 years (range 23-51 years), and the mean BMI was 50.2 +/- 6.2 kg m-2 (range 40.0-62.9 kg m-2). A whole-night sleep recording was made for all patients with signs or symptoms indicative of possible obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS). If the first nocturnal sleep recording was abnormal, it was controlled after 1 year. Eleven (10 men and one woman) of the 27 patients had an oxygen desaturation index (ODI) of 10 h-1. They were symptomatic with excessive daytime sleepiness or other daytime symptoms of OSAS. The occurrence of OSAS in men and women was 76.9 and 7.1%, respectively. Arterial hypertension was associated with OSAS, but not with smoking or the degree of obesity. Antihypertensive treatment was received by nine of the 27 patients; six of them had OSAS. Thus six of the 11 (54.5%) patients with OSAS and three of the 16 (18.8%) nonapnoeic patients were treated for arterial hypertension (Fisher exact test, P = 0.042). The odds ratio of OSAS for arterial hypertension is 5.2 (95% CI, 0.71-43.6). Vertical-banded gastroplasty was performed in 14 patients, three of whom had OSAS. The selection of patients for gastroplasty was made without taking into account the results of sleep recordings. In the three OSAS patients, a 30-38% reduction in BMI was achieved by surgery. Eight patients with OSAS were treated with an intensified dietary regimen, and the reduction in BMI ranged from -2.6 to 33%. OSAS was either cured or significantly improved in six (55%) patients, with a mean reduction in BMI of 27%, while in patients with persistent OSAS the mean reduction in BMI was only 7%. 
Ultrasonographical investigation of periportal fibrosis in children with Schistosoma mansoni infection: reversibility of morbidity seven months after treatment with praziquantel. Five hundred thirty six Sudanese schoolchildren with Schistosoma mansoni infection were treated at random with either 20 mg or 40 mg/kg praziquantel. Seven months later 420 children could be reinvestigated by ultrasonography. Reduction of egg excretion and reversibility of sonographically-proven periportal fibrosis (PF) was not significantly different in the two groups. Schistosoma mansoni-induced PF grade II decreased from 22.9% to 6.7% and grade III from 5.2% to 1.6%. An increased prevalence of PF grade I, from 10% to 29.8% of the investigated patients, was observed. This increase was caused partly by a downshifting of patients who had PF II (n = 45) and PF III (n = 8) before therapy, but also by patients who developed PF I in the seven months after therapy (n = 56). The overall percentage of patients with PF before and after treatment was 38.1%. Of 420 children, 17.4% increased in their PF grade, 55% remained at the same level and 27.6% improved. Children younger than 11 years of age had a higher rate of complete reversibility than older ones. The percentage of patients with hepatomegaly decreased significantly (11.6% to 6.9%; p = 0.001). The rate of splenomegaly remained unchanged. It was concluded that within seven months therapy with praziquantel resulted in a considerable qualitative improvement of PF in Sudanese schoolchildren with S. mansoni infection. 
Cimetidine and ranitidine may not cross-react to cause thrombocytopenia. We report the case of a patient with peptic ulcer disease who developed cimetidine-induced thrombocytopenia. The thrombocytopenia resolved spontaneously following discontinuation of cimetidine, and did not recur with ranitidine. We concluded that cimetidine and ranitidine do not necessarily cross-react to induce thrombocytopenia. Thus the exclusion of both H2-blockers in the event that one has caused thrombocytopenia may not be justified. 
Lack of association between neutropenia and the incidence of bacteremia associated with indwelling central venous catheters in febrile pediatric cancer patients. To assess the incidence of bacteremia in pediatric cancer patients with indwelling central venous catheters with fever, we reviewed the records of all 67 such patients sequentially admitted during a 10-month period at our institution. There were a total of 140 episodes of fever in these 67 patients. In 55 of the episodes (39%) patients were nonneutropenic (absolute neutrophil count, greater than 500/mm3); 85 episodes (61%) were associated with neutropenia. Twenty-four percent of all episodes of fever in nonneutropenic patients were related to bacteremia vs. 9.5% of episodes of fever in the presence of neutropenia (P less than 0.05). When clinical evidence of an exit site infection was absent, the incidence of bacteremia in the neutropenic and nonneutropenic groups was similar (11% in the neutropenic group; 10% in the nonneutropenic group). We conclude that bacteremia is frequently observed in febrile pediatric cancer patients with indwelling venous catheters who are not neutropenic, particularly if there is clinical evidence of an exit site infection. Thus empiric antibiotic therapy is warranted in all pediatric oncology patients with indwelling catheters who develop fever. 
Arterial hemodynamics in human hypertension. Effects of adrenergic blockade. BACKGROUND. Resistance, pulse wave velocity, and wave reflections have been shown to be increased in patients with essential hypertension compared with normotensive controls. These alterations are completely normalized by nitroprusside infusion but exacerbated during beta-adrenergic blockade, suggesting an enhanced smooth muscle tone that is in part modulated by adrenergically mediated vasodilation. The present study was performed to examine the extent to which this apparently enhanced smooth muscle tone is a result of alpha-adrenergically mediated vasoconstriction. METHODS AND RESULTS. Age-matched normotensive and hypertensive Chinese subjects were instrumented with catheter-tipped micromanometers and an electromagnetic flow velocity sensor positioned in the ascending aorta. Aortic impedance and wave reflection properties were obtained from Fourier analysis of the pressure and flow signals during baseline conditions, after beta-blockade with propranolol (0.15 mg/kg i.v.), and after alpha-blockade with intravenous phentolamine (range, 15-80 mg) that was sufficient to either normalize blood pressure or produce a pressure that could not be further lowered. Compared with normotensives, in the baseline state, hypertensives had elevated resistance (1,962 versus 1,268 dyne.sec/cm5, p less than 0.001), total power (1,893 versus 1,568 mW, p less than 0.08), reflected pressure wave component (25.6 versus 13.5 mm Hg, p less than 0.001), ratio of reflected to forward wave (0.65 versus 0.42, p less than 0.001), and pulse wave velocity as determined from the frequency of the first zero-crossing of impedance phase angle (4.6 versus 3.5 Hz, p less than 0.03). During combined alpha- and beta-adrenergic blockade, blood pressure decreased into the normal range (from 162/103 to 131/87 mm Hg) but was still somewhat higher than that in the normotensive subjects. Resistance (1,914 dyne.sec/cm5, p less than 0.03), reflected wave (19.5 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), and ratio of reflected to forward wave (0.61, p less than 0.001) were, however, persistently elevated above normal values. CONCLUSIONS. alpha-Adrenergically mediated vasoconstriction cannot account for all of the hemodynamic alterations seen in essential hypertension. 
Relationship between glucose tolerance and quantitative changes of islet cells in chronic obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer. This study was conducted to clarify the relationship between indicators of preoperative glucose tolerance and quantitative changes of endocrine cells in the islet of Langerhans in patients with chronic obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer. Twenty-one specimens of pancreatic tissue obtained from patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy or total pancreatectomy for pancreatoduodenal cancer were divided into four groups according to the degree of fibrosis (Grades 0-III). Islet cells in serial sections were stained immunohistochemically to determine the proportions of B-, A-, D-, and PP-cells in the islets of Langerhans. In patients with pancreatic tissue with the most severe fibrosis, of several preoperative glucose metabolism indices measured, it was found that the ratio of integrated value of change in serum insulin to that of serum glucose (sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS) was significantly decreased. There was a significant positive correlation between proportion of B-cells, and both the ratio of change in insulin to that of glucose (delta IRI:delta BS) and sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS. On the other hand, there was a significant negative correlation between proportion of A-cells and sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS. The present data strongly suggest that it is possible to estimate the degree of fibrosis and to quantify changes of the islet cells prior to surgery in patients with obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer by calculating these glucose metabolism indices, and that sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS is a particularly useful index. 
Pathophysiological basis for noninvasive functional evaluation of coronary stenosis. A number of tests are used for the noninvasive detection of coronary stenosis, which results from the combination of different stimuli (exercise, pacing, dobutamine, dipyridamole, etc.) and different signals and methodologies (ECG, echocardiography, scintigraphy). In this article, the theoretical assumptions for and the methodological limitations of the functional evaluation of the degree of coronary stenosis are considered within the framework of pathophysiology. In particular, the issues of dilating coronary circulation by either increasing myocardial O2 demand or infusing dipyridamole and of assessing coronary reserve by either flow- or ischemia-related techniques are examined. In addition, the hypotheses of a physiological blood steal during exercise, a decrement of exercise ischemic threshold secondary to additional pharmacological vasodilation, and coronary vasospasm in Prinzmetal's angina patients, following the sequence dipyridamole-aminophylline, are discussed on the basis of preliminary studies. 
Nutritional consequences of major gastrointestinal surgery. Patient outcome and starvation. Advances in major gastrointestinal surgery and the existence of a significant number of high-risk patients necessitate a detailed knowledge of the metabolic response to surgery and the need for adjunctive nutritional therapy. Such surgery has the potential to cause significant nutritional consequences affecting patient outcome. Often, patients present malnourished preoperatively because of their chronic gastrointestinal disease, advanced age, or comorbidity. Still others are at great risk for developing malnutrition postoperatively secondary to the hypercatabolism of prolonged illness or postoperative complications. In addition, the surgical alterations of the gastrointestinal tract might disrupt normal function sufficiently to result in chronic nutritional deficiencies. Because starvation is no longer an acceptable condition, these concerns need to be recognized prior to surgery, and if indicated, nutritional support must be initiated preoperatively. Placement of feeding jejunostomy catheters for early enteral support should be considered for all high-risk patients. Equally important, surgeons should maintain a watch for future nutritional innovations that will improve their ability to meet patients' nutritional requirements. 
Mutations in the precore region of hepatitis B virus DNA in patients with fulminant and severe hepatitis BACKGROUND. The presence of the hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) in serum is known to be a marker of a high degree of viral infectivity. However, fulminant hepatitis may occur in persons who are negative for HBeAg. A single point mutation has been reported to produce a stop codon in the precore region of hepatitis B virus DNA and prevent the formation of the precore protein required to make HBeAg. To determine whether a precore-mutant virus is causally related to severe liver injury, we analyzed the entire precore region in viral strains isolated from patients with fatal cases and uncomplicated cases of hepatitis B. METHODS. Serum was obtained from 9 patients with fatal hepatitis B (5 with fulminant and 4 with severe exacerbations of chronic hepatitis) and 10 patients with acute, self-limited hepatitis B. Serum samples from a sex partner implicated as the source of the virus in one case of fulminant hepatitis were also studied. The 87 nucleotides in the precore region of the hepatitis B virus were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and then directly sequenced. RESULTS. Of the nine patients with fatal hepatitis, seven had retrievable hepatitis B DNA. In all seven there was a point mutation from G to A at nucleotide 1896 of the precore region, converting tryptophan (TGG) to a stop codon (TAG). In contrast, this mutation was not found in the 10 patients with acute, self-limited hepatitis B. The hepatitis B DNA from the implicated source contained a sequence with the stop-codon mutation that was identical to the sequence in her partner, who had fulminant hepatitis. CONCLUSIONS. The presence of a mutant viral strain is associated with and may be involved in the pathogenesis of fulminant hepatitis B and severe exacerbations of chronic hepatitis B. 
Assessment of severity of coronary narrowings by quantitative exercise echocardiography and comparison with quantitative arteriography. To determine the correlation of quantitative assessment of coronary narrowings with left ventricular functional impairment induced by exercise, 57 patients with 1-vessel coronary artery disease and without evidence of collateral flow were studied. A significant relation was observed between minimal cross-sectional area, percent area stenosis, minimal lumen diameter, percent diameter stenosis and the percentage of segmental area change from rest to peak exercise in a vascular distribution territory (r = 0.76, p less than 0.001; r = -0.55, p less than 0.001; r = 0.56, p less than 0.001; r = -0.75, p less than 0.001, respectively). For minimal cross-sectional area, the best cut-off value to separate significantly patients who had a decrease in contractility at peak exercise testing from those who had a normal response was 2 mm2 (p less than 0.001); for percent cross-sectional area stenosis, it was 75% (p less than 0.001); for minimal lumen diameter, it was 0.7 mm (p less than 0.001); and, for percent diameter stenosis, it was 85% (p less than 0.001). High cut-off values for angiographic variables are necessary to separate significantly patients who have a decrease in contractility at peak exercise testing from those who have a normal response. Several patients with mild coronary stenoses may have either normal or abnormal wall motion during exercise. Thus, exercise echocardiography is a useful tool in detecting the presence of fairly severe anatomic narrowing, whereas it is of limited clinical use in the assessment of intermediate coronary atherosclerotic lesions. 
The assessment of visuo-spatial neglect after acute stroke. Forty four consecutive patients with acute hemispheric stroke and forty seven elderly controls with no neurological disease were assessed for visuo-spatial neglect, using a modified neglect test battery. Neglect was found to be equally common in patients with right hemisphere and left hemisphere stroke three days after stroke (72% versus 62%). It was more severe in those with a right hemisphere stroke and resolved more frequently in those with a left hemisphere stroke. The battery was validated against an occupational therapist's assessment of neglect on self-care tasks. The inter-observer reliability was good and it was possible to monitor changes over time with the battery. 
Muscle hypertrophy response to resistance training in older women. We conducted a 12-wk resistance training program in elderly women [mean age 69 +/- 1.0 (SE) yr] to determine whether increases in muscle strength are associated with changes in cross-sectional fiber area of the vastus lateralis muscle. Twenty-seven healthy women were randomly assigned to either a control or exercise group. The program was satisfactorily completed and adequate biopsy material obtained from 6 controls and 13 exercisers. After initial testing of baseline maximal strength, exercisers began a training regimen consisting of seven exercises that stressed primary muscle groups of the lower extremities. No active intervention was prescribed for the controls. Increases in muscle strength of the exercising subjects were significant compared with baseline values (28-115%) in all muscle groups. No significant strength changes were observed in the controls. Cross-sectional area of type II muscle fibers significantly increased in the exercisers (20.1 +/- 6.8%, P = 0.02) compared with baseline. In contrast, no significant change in type II fiber area was observed in the controls. No significant changes in type I fiber area were found in either group. We conclude that a program of resistance exercise can be safely carried out by elderly women, such a program significantly increases muscle strength, and such gains are due, at least in part, to muscle hypertrophy. 
Intraoral reconstruction with a microvascular peritoneal flap. The microvascular peritoneal flap offers a new reconstructive option for closure of intraoral defects. The flap is easy to raise, and donor-site morbidity is low. Unlike fascial flaps, in which the raw surface may take weeks to "mucosalize," the peritoneal surface heals primarily. Finally, the rectus muscle effectively covers all forms of mandibular reconstruction, and the reliable skin paddle makes possible the closure of substantial cutaneous defects. 
Cerebral vasospasm in elderly patients with ruptured intracranial aneurysms. Cerebral vasospasm in elderly patients who were operated on the acute stage after subarachnoid hemorrhage was studied under strict criteria. The 138 patients were classified into three age groups: 59 years or younger (group A: 73 cases), 60 to 69 years (group B: 37 cases), and 70 years or older (group C: 28 cases). Severity of both the subarachnoid hemorrhages on computed tomography scan and the angiographic vasospasms was graded. The angiographic vasospasms were analyzed at the internal carotid artery, M1 segments of the middle cerebral artery, and A2 segments of the anterior cerebral. In all the relationships among the subarachnoid hemorrhage grades, the Hounsfield numbers, and the operative approaches to the angiographic vasospasm grade, there was a tendency for the angiographic vasospasm grades to be lower with increasing age in both the internal carotid artery and the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery. This tendency was more apparent in the larger vessels, that is, the internal carotid arteries. Close correlations of the angiographic vasospasm grades to the incidences of symptomatic vasospasm and to low-density area on computed tomography scan were found in both the M1 and A2 territories in the three groups. However, there were no significant differences among the three groups in the incidences of symptomatic vasospasm and low-density area on computed tomography scan. Regarding the surgical outcome, the older the patients, the higher were the mortality rates: 8% in group A, 11% in group B, and 25% in group C. 
Blockade of endogenous anterior hypothalamic atrial natriuretic peptide with monoclonal antibody lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. We have previously shown that the atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) content of the anterior hypothalamic region of NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-S) is higher than that of Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. ANP has been shown to inhibit neuronal norepinephrine release and to reduce the excitability of hypothalamic neurons. This study tested the hypothesis that blockade of endogenous ANP in the anterior hypothalamus by local microinjection of a monoclonal antibody to ANP (MAb KY-ANP-II) lowers blood pressure in SHR-S. Purified MAb KY-ANP-II (0.055 and 0.55 micrograms) or control mouse IgG in 200 nl saline was microinjected into the anterior hypothalamic area (AHA) of conscious SHR-S and control WKY rats. As a further control, Mab KY-ANP-II (0.55 microgram) was microinjected into the posterior hypothalamic area (PHA) of SHR-S. Anterior hypothalamic microinjection of MAb KY-ANP-II caused significant dose-related decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) in SHR-S but not in WKY rats. Control injections of equal volumes of IgG had no effect on MAP or HR. Microinjection of Mab KY-ANP-II into PHA produced no significant alteration in MAP or HR in SHR-S. These data provide the first demonstration that endogenous ANP in a region of brain known to influence cardiovascular function mediates BP and HR control in the rat. These findings suggest that the increased endogenous ANP in the anterior hypothalamus of SHR-S may be involved in the central regulation of BP in the model. 
Blood loss in total knee arthroplasty. Over a two-year period, 112 consecutive primary total knee arthroplasties (TKA) were performed according to a standard protocol and were evaluated to determine the effects of intraoperative tourniquet deflation, suction drainage, and immediate continuous passive motion (CPM) on blood loss and the need for blood transfusions. It has been reported that these measures lead to increased morbidity following TKA. The tourniquet was deflated before closure, hemostasis was obtained, and two suction drains were placed for 24 to 48 hours. CPM was started immediately, and continued for a mean of seven days. Serial hematocrits (Hct) were obtained. Mean age of the 64 males and 48 females was 65 years. The diagnosis was osteoarthritis in 86% and rheumatoid arthritis in 14%. Seventy-three percent of the prostheses were cemented and 27% were uncemented. The mean tourniquet time was 104 minutes and the mean length of surgery was 140 minutes. Blood loss measured at surgery averaged 222 ml. Total calculated blood loss averaged 794 ml, but was higher for patients with a cemented versus uncemented prosthesis (p less than .05), and males versus females (p less than .005). It was not related to diagnosis, tourniquet time, or length of surgery. Of the 38% of patients requiring a transfusion (mean, 2.2 units), there was not a significantly greater drop in Hct (from 36.6 to 26.5; change, 10.1) when compared to patients not receiving a transfusion (from 43.1 to 32.5; change, 10.6). Therefore, the need for transfusion was related to preoperative Hct and not the intraoperative or postoperative blood loss. 
Successful surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. Review and clinical update Atrial fibrillation is the most common of all sustained cardiac arrhythmias, yet it has no effective medical or surgical therapy. During the past decade, multipoint computerized electrophysiological mapping systems were used to map both experimental and human atrial fibrillation. On the basis of these studies, a new surgical procedure was developed for atrial fibrillation. Between September 25, 1987, and July 1, 1991, this procedure was applied in 22 patients with paroxysmal atrial flutter (n = 2), paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (n = 11), or chronic atrial fibrillation (n = 9) of 2 to 21 years' duration. All patients were refractory to all antiarrhythmic medications, and each patient failed to receive the desired therapeutic benefits of an average of five drugs administered preoperatively. There were no operative deaths and all perioperative morbidity resolved. All 22 patients have been successfully treated for atrial fibrillation with surgery alone. Three patients developed one late isolated episode of atrial flutter at 5, 6, and 15 months postoperatively, and each of these patient's symptoms is now controlled by a single antiarrhythmic drug. Preservation of atrial transport function has been documented in all patients postoperatively, and all have experienced marked clinical improvement. 
Cyst of the ligamentum flavum: report of six cases. Six cases of cyst of the ligamentum flavum with compression of a lumbar nerve root are reported. All patients exhibited recurrent back pain and sciatica. Investigation included computed tomography, myelography, or both. The correct diagnosis was reached before operation in only half the patients. High-resolution computed tomography performed in the four last patients outlined the cystic lesion with its low-density center. Surgical excision was performed in all patients. Microscopic examination showed a dense fibrous cyst arising from the ligamentum flavum. The lumen contained myxoid or necrotic material, but no epithelial lining. Cysts of the ligamentum flavum must be considered in the differential diagnosis of causes of sciatica. A firm radiological diagnosis may, at present, still require myelography combined with high-resolution computed tomography. Differentiation from synovial or ganglion cysts of the spine is discussed. 
Vestibular compensation after labyrinthectomy and vestibular neurectomy in cats. Labyrinthectomy and vestibular neurectomy are two ablative procedures used for definitive control of disabling vertigo. It is not known if vestibular compensation after labyrinthectomy and vestibular neurectomy differs. We have addressed this question by examining the pattern of recovery of the vestibular ocular reflex in cats after either labyrinthectomy or vestibular neurectomy. Temporal bone histologic examination confirmed the surgical lesion. Our results demonstrate a reduction of the long time constant of the vestibular ocular reflex in both groups of animals. Although gain of the vestibular ocular reflex recovered substantially, it never returned to control levels in either group. In general, animals that had undergone vestibular neurectomy demonstrated greater vestibular ocular reflex asymmetries than did labyrinthectomized animals. The recovery pattern of the vestibular ocular reflex indicates vestibular compensation is more rapid after labyrinthectomy than after vestibular neurectomy. We believe this result is related to survival of the vestibular nerve after labyrinthectomy, but not after vestibular neurectomy, suggesting that the vestibular nerve can contribute to the adaptive response after labyrinthectomy. 
The outcome of prostatectomy on chronic retention of urine. A total of 68 men with bladder outflow obstruction and chronic retention (residual urine greater than 300 ml.) underwent investigation before and after prostatectomy with medium fill cystometry and natural fill long-term bladder pressure monitoring. Postoperatively, upper tract dilatation (present in 28 men preoperatively) resolved in all but 2 men and serum creatinine levels improved significantly. Irritative and obstructive symptom scores improved postoperatively (p less than 0.00006), although 17% of the men still had significant symptoms. Residual urine volumes decreased and flow rates improved (p less than 0.00006) but 32% of the men still had a residual urine of greater than 200 ml. Urodynamic parameters improved during medium fill cystometry and long-term monitoring. The main risk factors for upper tract dilatation are a pressure increase during bladder filling on conventional cystometry and the frequency of phasic detrusor activity during long-term monitoring, and they decreased postoperatively. 
Fibrinopeptide A excretion in urine: a marker of the cumulative thrombin activity in stable versus unstable angina patients. Plasma levels and 24-hour urine excretion of fibrinopeptide A were measured in a consecutive series of 179 patients with angina pectoris. Sixty-four patients had stable angina and 115 patients had unstable angina. Urine was collected over 24 hours the day before coronary arteriography, and blood samples were taken at the end of urine collection. When the values of fibrinopeptide A in plasma and in the 24-hour urine specimens were compared, no significant correlation was found in patients with either stable (rs = 0.16, difference not significant) and unstable (rs = 0.07, difference not significant) angina. The concentrations of fibrinopeptide A in the plasma did not differ significantly when patients with stable angina (range 0.1 to 82.6, median 7.4 ng/mL) were compared with patients with unstable angina (range 0.2 to 61.7, median 14 ng/mL, p = 0.055), whereas fibrinopeptide A 24-hour urinary excretion was significantly higher in patients with unstable angina (range 0.3 to 38.1, median 11.8 micrograms/24 hr) than in patients with stable angina (range 0.4 to 38.1, median 3.8 micrograms/24 hr, p less than 0.001). Twenty-four-hour urine excretion of fibrinopeptide A in patients with unstable angina and angiographically documented intracoronary thrombi were higher than the corresponding values in patients with unstable angina without such angiographic characteristic (p less than 0.001). The largest increase in plasma and urine concentration of fibrinopeptide A was observed in patients whose first episode of angina at rest occurred within the previous 48 hours. We conclude that the cumulative thrombin activity, assessed by 24-hour urinary excretion of fibrinopeptide A, is a more useful index, compared with single fibrinopeptide A measurement in plasma, for discriminating between patients with stable and with unstable angina pectoris. 
Evidence for a central but not a peripheral analgesic effect of clomipramine in rats. The effect of clomipramine (CMI), a tricyclic antidepressant, was studied on an acute inflammatory pain model in an attempt to understand its potential antinociceptive activity, the involvement of a central and/or peripheral component and its influence on the inflammatory process. When administered (i.v.) before the inflammatory agent, carrageenan (CAR), CMI (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) completely prevented the development of the hyperalgesia for 70-120 min according to the doses. This antinociceptive effect was suppressed by naloxone (100 micrograms/kg i.v.) for 65 min. Neither higher doses (1, 2 and 20 mg/kg, i.v.) nor CMI injected into the inflamed paw (15 min before CAR) modified pain thresholds. Moreover, CMI (0.5 and 2 mg/kg, i.v.) administered 15 min before CAR markedly increased the volume of the CAR-induced oedema. These results (1) demonstrate an opioid-dependent antinociceptive effect of CMI on this model, the doses used being lower than those active in thermal or electrical tests, and (2) tend to exclude a peripheral mechanism and an NSAID-like anti-inflammatory activity suggested by previous in vitro studies. 
Perfusion redistribution after alveolar flooding: vasoconstriction vs. vascular compression. We compared the effects of left caudal lobe (LCL) alveolar hypoxia on regional pulmonary blood flow (PBF) with the effects due to alveolar edema induced by plasma instilled directly into the LCL airways of 16 dogs. Regional measurements were made with positron emission tomography. After hypoxic ventilation of the LCL (n = 11), the LCL-to-right caudal lobe (L/R) PBF ratio fell from 0.94 +/- 0.21 during 100% oxygen ventilation of the LCL to 0.46 +/- 0.21 (P less than 0.05). After instillation of either isooncotic (n = 5) or hypooncotic plasma (n = 3) into the LCL, the L/R PBF ratio was similar to that during LCL hypoxia (0.50 +/- 0.27 and 0.64 +/- 0.10, respectively, P less than 0.05 compared with 100% oxygen ventilation of the LCL before plasma instillation). The changes in regional PBF due to LCL hypoxia and plasma instillation could be completely prevented (n = 8) by the prior administration of a single dose of endotoxin (15 micrograms/kg iv). In contrast to previous work, these results indicate that perfusion redistribution occurs regardless of the oncotic state of alveolar edema. More importantly, any change that does occur in regional PBF can be completely prevented by blocking regional vasoconstriction, indicating that mechanical compression cannot be the major factor determining the regional response of PBF to alveolar flooding. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty utilizing prolonged balloon inflations: initial results and six-month follow-up. Coronary angioplasty (PTCA) using prolonged balloon inflation has obviated emergency coronary bypass surgery in some patients with acute occlusions at the time of PTCA. However, the use of prolonged balloon inflations has not been shown to improve long-term restenosis rates. As an alternative to the passive autoperfusion catheter, we evaluated a hemoperfusion system in which blood was obtained from the side arm of an arterial sheath and infused through the central lumen of standard balloon catheters via a modified Medrad IV pump during balloon inflation. PTCA was performed in 71 male patients (median age 57 yr). The median balloon inflation time was 4.8 minutes and the median rate of blood perfusion was 30 ml/min. PTCA was successful (lumen increase by 20 percentage points) in 83% of patients (59/71) with diameter stenosis decreasing from a median 82% to 30%. Emergency coronary bypass was required in four patients (5%). Angiographic data for six-month followup was available on 37 patients. The restenosis rate (loss of 50% of gain) was 46% (17/37). The conclusion is that prolonged balloon inflation angioplasty has a role in complicated PTCA but offers no advantage in improving long-term restenosis rates in elective PTCA. 
The relation of dizziness to functional decline. OBJECTIVE: to assess the effect of dizziness on the probability that an older person will die or become functionally disabled within 2 years. Dizziness is a common symptom for which the prognosis is uncertain. This report compares the prognoses for dizzy and not-dizzy older people in order to assist clinicians who diagnose and treat these patients. DESIGN: a prospective study of a representative sample of elderly (70+) non-institutionalized Americans. Elderly subjects (n = 3,798) in the Longitudinal Study of Aging (LSOA) were asked questions about the presence of dizziness, medical conditions, and functional disability in 1984. The cohort was reinterviewed about functional disability in 1986. OUTCOME MEASURE: transition from functional ability to disability after 2 years. RESULTS: Bivariate analyses showed that dizziness predicts functional decline but not mortality. Multivariate models revealed that age, race, sensory impairment, vascular disease, and other morbidity are independent predictors of becoming disabled. Controlling for these potential confounders, dizziness does not predict an increased probability of becoming disabled. CONCLUSION: Elderly people who are dizzy should be evaluated for the presence of these related conditions. 
Relation between myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor and left ventricular function in patients with left ventricular volume overload due to chronic mitral regurgitation with or without aortic regurgitation. The relation between myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor and left ventricular (LV) function was studied in 10 patients, aged 41 to 61 years (average 51), with LV volume overload mainly due to chronic mitral regurgitation. Beta-adrenergic receptors were examined using crude membrane in LV papillary muscle obtained at mitral valve replacement. Cardiac function was evaluated at preoperative cardiac catheterization with the interval to surgery of 1 to 33 months (average 7). Beta-adrenergic receptor density in 7 patients with New York Heart Association class II or III congestive heart failure was higher than that in 3 patients with class IV heart failure (59 +/- 19 vs 37 +/- 3 fmol/mg protein, p less than 0.05). Beta-adrenergic receptor density showed a positive correlation with end-systolic stress/end-systolic volume index ratio, the index for contractile function (p less than 0.005). Other parameters such as cardiac index, pulmonary artery wedge pressure and LV ejection fraction had no significant correlation to beta-adrenergic receptor. The results demonstrated that increases in symptom and LV dysfunction, particularly of the contractile state, was associated with decreased myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor density from possible down-regulation in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation with or without aortic regurgitation. 
Use of a rapid, efficient inoculation method to induce papillomas by cottontail rabbit papillomavirus DNA shows that the E7 gene is required. A simple inoculation method to induce papillomas efficiently with cottontail rabbit papillomavirus (CRPV) DNA is described. Using a jet injector, recombinant CRPV DNA is easily delivered to 100 or more sites per rabbit and induces typical epithelial papillomas in approximately 50% of those sites. Papillomas begin to form by 3 weeks and continue to develop for up to 7 weeks, a pattern similar to that reported following infection with intact virus. This system readily lends itself to investigation of viral gene function by delivering mutant viral genomes into an immunologically intact host. Two mutations in the E7 open reading frame were introduced into the complete CRPV genome and analyzed by this method. One was a frameshift mutation encoding just nine amino-terminal amino acids of the E7 protein; the other was an in-frame insertion mutation at position 9. Both E7 mutations were in a region of homology to the 300-kDa protein binding domain of adenovirus E1A protein. Neither mutant construct was able to induce papillomas, thereby demonstrating that the E7 gene participates in this biologic function. Exploitation of this approach, which demonstrates that a papillomavirus E7 gene is involved in the induction of papillomas in vivo, should permit detailed studies into molecular mechanisms involved in papilloma induction, malignant conversion, and host immune response. The high efficiency of papilloma induction with recombinant CRPV DNA suggests that the jet injector can also be used to study the biologic effects of other genetic elements in rabbits or in other species. 
Human hepatocyte growth factor in blood of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. Basic aspects. Human hepatocyte growth factor (hHGF) was purified from the plasma of six patients with fulminant hepatic failure due to hepatitis B in two and non-A, non-B hepatitis in four. The purified hHGF from each patient contained two major protein bands having molecular weights of 79,000 and 86,000 and several minor bands having molecular weights between 76,000 and 92,000 on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis performed under nonreduced conditions. After reduction with 2-mercaptoethanol, three major bands having molecular weights of 58,000, 34,500, and 31,500 were evident. In addition, a band having a molecular weight of 21,000 was detected. hHGF activity was destroyed by its reduction. The hHGF purified from patients demonstrated a dose response in terms of an increase in DNA synthesis using cultured hepatocytes. The hHGF concentration in the plasma of the patients with grade III-IV hepatic coma was calculated to be in the range of 1.8-3.0 nM. Finally the heavy chain of hHGF was not recognized by an anti-human albumin antibody, indicating that hHGF is not biliprotein, an albumin-bilirubin complex, that has been reported to be a putative liver growth factor. 
Complement consumption in a patient with necrobiotic xanthogranuloma and paraproteinemia. Necrobiotic xanthogranuloma and paraproteinemia have been reported to be associated with acquired deficiency of the early components of the classic pathway of complement. We describe a patient in whom activation of complement was suggested by a high level of C3d, an accelerated catabolism of C1q, and a rapid consumption of C4 after an intravenous infusion of fresh-frozen plasma. This infusion was followed by an episode of pulmonary edema. Patients with complement deficiency or depletion should be monitored closely while receiving plasma, to avoid this potential complication. 
Resectoscopic myomectomy. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate safety and efficacy of resectoscopic myomectomy for control of menorrhagia, dysmenorrhea, and/or reproductive wastage. DESIGN: Retrospective consecutive patient follow-up. SETTING: Private practice, outpatient, hospital. PATIENTS: All patients (92) having resectoscopic myomectomy between September 1, 1986 and December 31, 1989. INTERVENTIONS: Resectoscopic myomectomy with or without concomitant procedures such as endometrial ablation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Assessment of dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, and reproductive outcome after surgery. RESULTS: Elimination of dysmenorrhea in 24 of 28, absence of menorrhagia in 65 of 80, and pregnancy in 10 of 13 with two abortions in a total of 11 gestations. One patient was admitted and treated with one unit of autologous blood and mechanical tamponade with an intrauterine balloon. Three cases of uterine perforation had no sequelae. One patient had mild endometritis responding to outpatient antibiotics. Two cases of leiomyosarcoma were diagnosed histologically and accounted for two of the three hysterectomies noted during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Resectoscopic myomectomy is a safe, effective, and relatively simple outpatient surgical procedure. 
Idarubicin: a second-generation anthracycline. Because of its in vitro activity in leukemic cell lines and Phase I studies of acute leukemia, Phase II and III clinical trials with idarubicin hydrochloride were conducted in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. In the Phase III comparative trials between the combinations of idarubicin and cytarabine and daunorubicin hydrochloride and cytarabine, the idarubicin/cytarabine combination resulted in significantly greater complete remission rates and longer overall survival in two of three studies conducted in the US. As a result, the Food and Drug Administration approved intravenous idarubicin with a Class 1A rating in September 1990 for use in combination with other antileukemic drugs (e.g., cytarabine) for the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia in adults. The recommended dose of idarubicin is 12 mg/m2 daily for three days by slow intravenous injection in combination with cytarabine. Although idarubicin causes myelosuppression similar to that described with daunorubicin, the incidence of cardiotoxicity in animal models is lower. Idarubicin also has the advantage of oral administration, but the oral formulation of the drug remains investigational. The use of idarubicin in pediatric patients also remains to be established. 
Fat-saturation MR imaging of the upper abdomen. The fat-saturation (fatsat) MR technique decreases the signal intensity of fat, thereby enhancing the definition of upper abdominal organs and reducing artifacts while maintaining the T1 and T2 information available on spin-echo sequences. To evaluate the potential of fatsat in examining the abdomen, we conducted a prospective study involving 30 subjects, including four normal volunteers, 18 patients investigated for liver disease, and eight patients studied for miscellaneous abdominal disease. Short TR, 300-600/15-20 (TR/TE), and long TR, 2000-2500/20-30, 70-80, spin-echo images with and without fatsat were compared. The images were evaluated both qualitatively and quantitatively. Qualitative assessment was made with receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curve analysis of the confidence level of observers to detect the presence of disease, comparing fatsat with standard spin-echo sequences. ROC analysis showed greater interpreter confidence and accuracy for fatsat sequences than for standard spin-echo sequences. The measured signal-difference-to-noise (SD/N) ratio comparing upper abdominal organs with surrounding tissue revealed the highest values for short TR/TE regular spin echo, followed by short TR/TE fatsat. The highest SD/N ratio for hepatic masses was with long TR/TE fatsat followed by short TR/TE fatsat. The results of this study suggest that the fatsat technique may improve abdominal MR imaging. 
Pediatric cardiac rehabilitation. Sixteen patients participated in a Pediatric/Young Adult Cardiac Rehabilitation Program that included exercise training, education about cardiovascular diseases, dietary counseling, and counseling on stress management. Seven patients completed the program, and complete data were available on six. The subjects demonstrated significant changes in their hemodynamics and exercise tolerance after completing the program. Resting blood pressure decreased by 7%, from 119 +/- 12 to 111 +/- 10 mm Hg; peak oxygen consumption increased by 20%, from 31.9 +/- 4.3 mL/kg of body weight per minute to 38.4 +/- 6.0 mL/kg of body weight per minute; and exercise treadmill time increased by 21%, from 8.5 +/- 1.4 to 10.3 +/- 1.0 minutes. No complications occurred during exercise training or testing. Supervised exercise training at moderate intensity is safe and produces significant and beneficial changes in hemodynamics and exercise time in children with cardiac disease. 
Hyperalgesia induced in the rat by the amino-terminal octapeptide of nerve growth factor. Nerve growth factor (NGF) in the mouse submandibular gland undergoes cleavage of its amino-terminal octapeptide when salivation is induced by epinephrine. The significance of this event is uncertain; cleaved NGF demonstrates bioactivity and no function has been attributed to the octapeptide produced (NGF-OP; Ser-Ser-Thr-His-Pro-Val-Phe-His). Enzyme inhibition studies indicating structural relatedness of NGF-OP and bradykinin (BK) prompted us to determine whether NGF-OP would elicit BK-like actions. We found that like BK, NGF-OP induced a decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold (i.e., produced hyperalgesia) in the hairy skin of the rat. This effect was dose-dependent and sequence-specific; like BK it was attenuated by sympathectomy and indomethacin pretreatment. However, NGF-OP actions appeared to be distinct from those for BK in that tissue injury was required for NGF-OP to induce hyperalgesia. Furthermore, we found no evidence that NGF-OP bound to or activated BK receptors. Our data indicate that NGF-OP is a distinct mediator of hyperalgesia. We suggest that NGF-OP alters pain threshold in the injured target regions of NGF-responsive neurons. 
Chinese medicinal herbs reverse macrophage suppression induced by urological tumors. Tumors are known to produce factors suppressing macrophage function. In this study we demonstrated in vitro suppression of macrophage chemiluminescent oxidative burst associated with viable cells and cell-free extracts of two urological neoplasms--murine renal cell carcinoma (Renca) and murine bladder tumor (MBT). Suppression was reversed by extracts of two Chinese medicinal herbs, Astragalus membranaceus (AM) and Ligustrum lucidum (LL). Murine macrophage cell line J774 was incubated with either the viable tumor cells or the cell-free tumor extract for 18 hours at 37C and 5% CO2. Chemiluminescent oxidative burst as an indicator of macrophage function was triggered by adding zymosan A suspension containing luminol and assayed in an automated luminometer. Photon emission over time was counted and the results were expressed as integrated photon emission. Significant dose-related depression of oxidative burst occurred with either the viable tumor cells or the cell-free tumor extracts. Depression was partially or completely reversed by the presence of 50-100 micrograms./ml. of either the AM or the LL extract. AM and LL have previously been shown to modulate immune response. Data from this study suggest that they may also exert their antitumor activity via abolition of tumor-associated macrophage suppression. 
Effects of DM-9384, a cyclic derivative of GABA, on amnesia and decreases in GABAA and muscarinic receptors induced by cycloheximide. The effects of N-(2,6-dimethyl-phenyl)-2-(2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl)-acetamide [DM-9384], a cyclic derivative of GABA, were investigated in the cycloheximide (CXM)-induced amnesia animal model using the passive avoidance task. Pre- and post-training and pre-retention test administration of DM-9384 attenuated the CXM-induced amnesia as indicated by prolongation of step-down latency. Aniracetam, another cyclic derivative of GABA, also showed antiamnesic effects. Scopolamine, a muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist, and the GABA antagonists, picrotoxin and bicuculline, all antagonized the antiamnesic effects of DM-9384. CXM decreased the number of GABAA and muscarinic ACh receptor binding sites. DM-9384 not only inhibited this effect but actually increased the latter. These results suggest that DM-9384 attenuates CXM-induced amnesia by interacting with GA-BAergic and AChergic neuronal systems and enhancing protein synthesis in the brain. 
Extracellular matrix disruption and pain after eccentric muscle action. Pain, stiffness, and indicators of muscle damage occur at different times after eccentric muscle action. After a single bout of maximal resisted lengthening of the elbow flexors, elbow position, pain perception, and indicators of cellular damage were measured. Immediately postexercise, a significant decrease in resting muscle length was observed that continued to 48 h. At this time, an increase in perceived muscle soreness was noted (P less than 0.05), and a biopsy of the biceps brachii revealed mast cell degranulation, separations of the extracellular matrix from myofibers, and increased plasma constituents in the extracellular space. It is proposed that myofiber disruption allows intracellular proteins to escape and extracellular proteins and ions to enter, causing swelling, whereas the disrupted extracellular matrix initiates the inflammatory response, which includes the release of mast cell granules seen at 48 h postexercise. Thus the delayed sensation of pain (soreness) after repeated eccentric muscle actions probably results from inflammation in response to extracellular matrix disruption. 
Ascitic fluid pH and lactate: insensitive and nonspecific tests in detecting ascitic fluid infection. Ascitic fluid pH and lactate concentration have been proposed as useful tests for the detection of ascitic fluid infection. However, past studies involved small numbers of infected patients, and all did not use optimal culture techniques. This large study was performed using highly sensitive culture methods and sought (a) to compare the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of pH and lactate to that of the ascitic fluid neutrophil count and (b) to determine whether evaluation of ascitic fluid pH or lactate (or arterial-ascitic fluid pH or lactate gradient) would result in improved decision-making regarding empirical treatment of suspected ascitic fluid infection. Analysis of 206 ascitic fluid specimens obtained in 175 patients, including 101 infected specimens, revealed that ascitic fluid (or arterial-ascitic fluid) pH and lactate were less than 50% sensitive in detecting bacterial peritonitis and that these tests did not improve clinical decision-making about empirical treatment of suspected ascitic fluid infection. Although statistically significant differences in ascitic fluid pH were detected between infected samples and control samples, these differences did not appear to be clinically helpful. The ascitic fluid pH was 0% sensitive in detecting the presence of bacteria in the absence of neutrophils (i.e., no such specimens had a pH lower than 7.35). Ascitic fluid pH correlated well with neutrophil count and appears to be, at least in part, an indirect measure of the presence of neutrophils in ascitic fluid. Measurement of pH or lactate (or arterial-ascitic fluid gradients) is not helpful in the clinical management of infected ascitic fluid. 
Stapled ileoanal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis and familial polyposis without a temporary diverting ileostomy. Between March 1989 and August 1990, we performed 21 stapled J pouch ileonal procedures (20 ulcerative colitis [UC], 1 familial polyposis [FP]) without an ileostomy in 19, of whom 13 were taking prednisone and eight underwent semi-emergent surgery for uncontrollable bleeding. During the same time, an additional four patients required a standard ileonal procedure. The results of anal manometry and clinical function were compared to 25 patients who had previously undergone mucosal stripping and a sutured J pouch ileoanal anastomoses with a temporary diverting ileostomy between October 1982 and August 1990. During this same time period, an additional 19 patients underwent an anti-peristaltic reversed J pouch and 18 an S pouch, for a total of 83 ileoanal procedures. The reversed J pouch had a lower stool frequency than a standard J pouch but had an unacceptable incidence of complications and problems with pouch emptying. The S pouch had a stool frequency similar to the standard J pouch but provided greater length in patients with a short mesentery. Stapled J pouch ileoanal patients had a better (p less than 0.02) maximum and sphincter resting pressure (46 +/- 11 versus 34 +/- 12 mmHg), fewer (p less than 0.05) night-time accidents (22% versus 68%), daytime (17% versus 55%) or night-time (28 versus 61%) spotting, or use of a protective pad at night (11% versus 42%) than nonstapled J pouch ileoanal patients. Stool frequency was similar in the two groups. All but one UC patient had residual disease at the anastomosis. Anal mucosa between the dentate line and stapled anastomosis was 1.8 +/- 1.3 cm (range, 0 to 3.5 cm). Complications in the nonstapled J pouch group included 4 pouches excised (2 for complications, 2 for excessive stool frequency), 1 pelvic abscess, 2 stenosis requiring dilation under anesthesia, 1 enterocutaneous fistula after ileostomy closure, 1 ileostomy site hernia, and 2 small bowel obstructions. Of the 65 patients who underwent ileostomy closure in the entire series, 8 (12%) developed a complication requiring surgical intervention. Complications in the stapled group included 1 anastomotic leak, 1 pouch leak, and 1 pelvic abscess. Patients were managed successfully with drainage (all 3) and diverting ileostomy (1). One patient developed stenosis requiring dilation under anesthesia. The stapled J pouch ileoanal anastomosis is a simpler, safer procedure with less tension than a standard handsewn J pouch but leaves a very small cuff of residual disease. It provides significantly better stool control and may obviate the need for an ileostomy with its complications. 
Diastolic perfusion time at ischemic threshold in patients with stress-induced ischemia BACKGROUND. To evaluate the relevance of diastolic perfusion time on the mechanisms underlying stress-induced ischemia, 16 patients with coronary artery disease and seven patients with syndrome X underwent five randomized stress tests (upright and supine exercise with and without therapy, transesophageal atrial pacing). METHODS AND RESULTS. Exercise duration Time to 0.1 mV ST segment depression, heart rate, rate-pressure product, and diastolic perfusion time were evaluated for each patient during stress tests. In both groups, variability coefficients of the above-mentioned parameters were not different at rest. At ischemic threshold (0.1 mV ST segment depression) in patients with coronary artery disease, the variability coefficient of exercise duration (40.1 +/- 22.2) was significantly higher (p less than 0.0001) than those of heart rate (12.8 +/- 2.9), rate-pressure product (14.8 +/- 3.3), and diastolic perfusion time (0.39 +/- 0.1). The variability coefficient of diastolic perfusion time was also significantly (p less than 0.0001) lower than those of heart rate and rate-pressure product. Similarly, the variability coefficient of diastolic perfusion time (0.44 +/- 0.1) in syndrome X patients was significantly lower (p less than 0.0001) than those of exercise duration (28.2 +/- 9.4), heart rate (12 +/- 1.4), and rate-pressure product (14.6 +/- 1.3). CONCLUSIONS. Fixed diastolic perfusion time at ischemic threshold, despite different kinds of stress tests and variability of heart rate and rate-pressure product, indicates the relevant role of diastolic perfusion time in determining myocardial ischemia. 
Use of recombinant human interferon gamma to enhance neutrophil chemotactic responses in Job syndrome of hyperimmunoglobulinemia E and recurrent infections. Recombinant human interferon gamma enhances neutrophil respiratory burst and bactericidal activity in patients with chronic granulomatous disease. Mononuclear leukocytes of patients with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia E syndrome (Job syndrome) produce low or undetectable levels of this lymphokine. For these reasons we have restudied neutrophil chemotaxis in a group of our patients with the syndrome and determined the effect of recombinant human interferon gamma on the responses. Each of the patients had neutrophil chemotactic responses ranging from 22% to 55% of simultaneous control values (p less than 0.001). After incubation with interferon gamma, a significant improvement in chemotactic responsiveness was observed in the neutrophils of each of the patients (mean 301% of baseline chemotaxis; p less than 0.008). These data suggest the need for a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of interferon gamma in a larger group of patients with the syndrome of hyperimmunoglobulinemia E and recurrent infections. 
Alveolar hydatid disease of the liver: a report on thirty-nine surgical cases in eastern Anatolia, Turkey. The charts of 39 consecutive patients who underwent surgery between 1979 and 1989 with a diagnosis of alveolar hydatid disease (AHD) of the liver were reviewed. The analysis of these cases from eastern Anatolia, which is the endemic region in Turkey, was undertaken to determine the current experience for AHD lesions. Of these patients, 33 (84.6%) had unresectable disease and the remaining six patients (15.4%) were treated by hepatic resection of the primary lesion. In the unresectable cases, laparotomy with biopsy was the most commonly used surgical procedure (56.4%), followed by tube drainage of the necrotic cavity (18.0%), marsupialization (5.1%), and cystojejunostomy (5.1%). Diagnostic studies and operative findings were useful in detecting the AHD lesions. Differential diagnosis was established mainly by histopathologic examination of a biopsy specimen or resected tissue. Pulmonary metastases were seen in two cases, and mortality occurred due to brain metastases in two other cases. Mebendazole was administered postoperatively to 19 patients with indications for 1) advanced AHD, 2) adjuvant therapy to radical and palliative surgical procedures, and 3) recurrences of disease after hepatic resection. The patients were treated with daily doses of approximately 50 mg/kg for periods of one and six years (median 3.2 years). Encouraging results were obtained in 11 of nineteen patients. Five-year survival was seen in 8 of the patients with AHD in this series. There were 18 deaths (46.2%) in our 39 patients. Long-term follow-up was not possible in four cases, and 17 patients (43.6%) were still living. The causes of mortality were advanced AHD in 14 cases, brain metastases in two, and acute myocardial infarction in another two. 
Acute pancreatitis and systemic lupus erythematosus: necropsy of a case and review of the pancreatic vascular lesions. The role of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in the development of acute pancreatitis is a matter of controversy since, in many cases, this complication has been attributed to the drugs administered. In this study, we present a patient diagnosed as having SLE who developed acute pancreatitis with no apparent cause aside from her basic disease, and in whose necropsy was observed vascular damage consisting of severe intimal proliferation. Pancreatic vascular lesions in previously reported patients with lupus are reviewed. 
No excess prior cancer in patients with uveal melanoma. To determine whether there were more prior cancers in uveal melanoma patients than in a geographically matched control group, the authors compared the history of prior cancer in 407 uveal melanoma patients who lived in the western United States with that of 870 control subjects. Control subjects were selected by random digit dial and frequency-matched for age at diagnosis of patient, race, and sex. Fifty-one (12.5%) patients and 86 (9.9%) control subjects reported skin cancers whereas 25 (6.1%) patients and 47 (5.4%) control subjects reported other cancers. No statistically significant elevated estimates of relative risk (RR) were found for uveal melanoma with history of skin cancer in either men (RR = 1.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.87-2.3) or women (RR = 1.1, 95% CI = 0.58-2.0), or with history of other prior cancer in either sex (men, RR = 1.0, 95% CI = 0.42-2.2; women, RR = 1.1, 95% CI = 0.55-2.1). Data from this study do not support an association between prior cancer and increased risk of uveal melanoma. 
Rehabilitating elderly cardiac patients. The aging cardiovascular system undergoes many anatomic and physiologic changes. Increased vascular resistance, myocardial "stiffness," abnormalities of rhythmicity of the sinoatrial node, irregular cardiac rhythms, and alterations in heart rate and blood pressure responses are all seen more frequently in older patients. These changes are likely to impair these patients' ability to make the rapid adjustments necessary to maintain cardiac output during exercise and activity. When cardiovascular disease processes are superimposed on the "normal" concomitants of aging, greater alterations in hemodynamic response to exercise activity are noted than usually occur in younger cardiac patients. Exercise testing of older cardiac patients is safe and is usually needed to prescribe an appropriate intensity of exercise activity. The choice of the exercise protocol, the timing of the exercise test in relation to taking prescribed cardiac medication, the choice of exercise equipment, and special considerations for devices such as pacemakers and automatic implantable cardiodefibrillators must be considered before the exercise test is done. Many of these factors and the presence of either silent or overt cardiac symptoms or untoward hemodynamic events will also affect the exercise prescription. Elderly patients usually show substantial functional improvement when participating in a cardiac rehabilitation program and comply well with prescribed exercise. Early educational intervention may be crucial to reducing disability in these patients. 
Botulinum toxin treatment of tremors. We report the results of an open trial of botulinum toxin (Botox) in the treatment of 51 patients with disabling tremors, classified as dystonic (14), essential (12), combination of dystonic and essential (22), parkinsonian (1), peripherally induced (1), and midbrain (1). The average age of the patients was 55.8 years, and duration of symptoms was 13.9 years. During a total of 160 treatment visits, an average of 242 +/- 75 units of Botox was injected per visit in cervical muscles of 42 patients with head tremor and 95 +/- 38 in forearm muscles of 10 patients with hand tremor; one patient was injected in both. The average peak effect for all patients was rated as 3.0 (0 to 4 scale). Thirty-five (67%) patients improved (peak effect greater than or equal to 1). The average latency from injection to response was 6.8 days, and the average duration of maximum improvement was 10.5 weeks. Local complications, lasting an average of 20.6 days, were noted in 17 (40%) patients injected for head tremor, consisting chiefly of dysphagia in 12 (29%), transient neck weakness in four (10%), and local pain in two (5%). Six (60%) patients with hand tremor had transient focal weakness. EMG recordings showed decreased amplitude of EMG bursts after Botox treatment. The results of this pilot study indicate that Botox injections can be used to control tremor in patients in whom other forms of therapy have failed. 
Glycerol injection into the trigeminal ganglion provokes a selective increase in human cerebral blood flow. Fourteen patients suffering from idiopathic trigeminal neuralgia (refractory to medication) were treated by injection of glycerol into the trigeminal ganglion. The changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) after glycerol injection were quantified by intravenous 133Xe emission tomography. There was a significant 11% (P less than 0.01) increase in ipsilateral CBF and an 8% (P less than 0.05) increase in contralateral CBF 1 h after glycerol injection. The interhemispheric difference was significant (P less than 0.05). The increase was significantly greater in the ipsilateral internal carotid territory, in the anterior cerebral artery and middle cerebral artery territories (superficial (P less than 0.05), deep territories (P less than 0.001]. We suggest that these changes are due to the release of substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide, from terminals of the trigeminal-vascular system during glycerol injection. 
Intraoperative localization of colorectal cancers using radiolabelled monoclonal antibodies. Radiation detectors may allow the intraoperative localization of small cancer deposits following administration of radiolabelled tumour-associated antibodies. This technique was evaluated in 16 patients with colorectal tumours (14 cancers, one adenoma, one lipoma) with the 111In-labelled monoclonal antibody (MAb) ICR2 which recognizes the tumour-associated epithelial membrane antigen (EMA). At operation counting was carried out (3 x 20 s per site) using a hand-held radiation probe over the primary lesions and any palpable lymph nodes in the mesocolon. The tumour to normal colon (T/NC) ratio of counts recorded at operation was more than 1.5:1 in eight of the 14 patients with cancer (mean(s.d.), 1.54(0.41):1) and 0.91:1 and 1.06:1 respectively in the two patients with benign tumours. Node to normal colon ratios were higher in lymph nodes containing metastases. The uptake of radiolabelled antibody (T/NC ratio) was higher in EMA-expressing cancers than in those not expressing the target antigen (mean(s.d.), 2.45(0.65):1 versus 1.40(0.20):1, P = 0.019). An abdominal tumour model was also developed. Radioactively filled containers of 0.5-10 ml representing tumour deposits were suspended in a tank of 111In solution representing the background activity found in normal tissues. The ratio of radioactivity in the 'tumour' to that of background varied from 2:1 to 8:1. The 'tumour' was considered to be detectable if the mean counts recorded over the 'tumour' exceeded the mean of counts recorded over background by three standard deviations. At a ratio of 2:1 only 'tumours' greater than 5 ml could be detected with a sodium iodide probe and those over 10 ml could be detected with a cadmium telluride (CdTe) probe. At a ratio of 8:1, 'tumours' of 0.5 ml could be detected with either probe. At all ratios and counting periods the NaI probe was more sensitive than the CdTe. 
Measurement of serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in a patient with congenital agranulocytosis (Kostmann's syndrome). A 12-month-old boy with Kostmann's syndrome was admitted with cavitary pulmonary disease. He had also had bacterial conjunctivitis, periorbital cellulitis, pneumonitis, and otitis media since the age of 10 days. His umbilical cord had not fallen off until he was 3 weeks old. Neutropenia was diagnosed at 4 weeks of age. Antineutrophil antibody studies were negative. A bone marrow aspirate showed granulocytic hypoplasia and a maturation arrest at the promyelocyte stage. Hematopoietic cell culture showed normal numbers of colony-forming units-granulocyte macrophage. Serum granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor level, was 0.24 ng/mL (normal, greater than 0.05 ng/mL). Serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor levels, measured by enzyme immunoassay, were undetectable. The patient was successfully treated with filgrastim (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor), with an increase in the absolute neutrophil count to 10.0 x 10(9)/L. Thus, our case of Kostmann's syndrome appears to represent a defect in regulation or production of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. 
Experience with a gastrointestinal marker (51CrCl3) in a combined study of ileal function using 75SeHCAT and 58CoB12 measured by whole body counting. Introduction of a radioactive gastrointestinal marker (51CrCl3) into a combined study (75SeHCAT + 58CoB12) of ileal function by whole body counting has been undertaken. The technique was assessed in 23 subjects (15 patients with inflammatory bowel disease, six on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for rheumatoid arthritis, and two normal subjects). Mean (SD) 51CrCl3 retention was only 4.1 (6.0)% on day 4, and was similar on day 7 in subjects given a second dose of 51CrCl3 on day 4. Only one subject had more than 20% of 51CrCl3 retention after four days. A 51CrCl3 correction method adequately corrected for colonic hold up of 58CoB12, when compared with final equilibrium values of 58CoB12 retention. Use of the non-absorbed 58CoB12 fraction as a gastrointestinal marker gave good agreement with the 51CrCl3 method in correcting 75SeHCAT values. In all subjects studied, corrections for colonic retention of 75SeHCAT on day 4, were small (less than 7% of dose) and did not affect the assessment of any subject. In conclusion, an additional gastrointestinal marker such as 51CrCl3 is unnecessary in our combined study since that role can be effected, when indicated by the non-absorbed 58CoB12 fraction. 
Cholesterol uptake by human glioma cells via receptor-mediated endocytosis of low-density lipoprotein. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is a carrier of the cholesterol found in human plasma. Cells utilize cholesterol for membrane synthesis by taking up LDL via receptor-mediated endocytosis. In the present study, interactions of LDL with human malignant glioma cell lines (U-251 MG and KMG-5) were investigated biochemically and morphologically. The LDL, labeled with the fluorescent dyes 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine (DiI) and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), was internalized by both cell processes and cell bodies. Reductive methylation of DiI-labeled LDL, which abolishes the ability of the cell to bind to the LDL receptor, prevented the internalization of the cholesterol moiety of LDL. Cellular binding of 125I-LDL to U-251 MG cells at 4 degrees C revealed the presence of a specific saturable-associated receptor (dissociation constant (Kd) approximately 38 micrograms/ml). Endocytic uptake of 125I-LDL or 3H-cholesterol oleate-labeled LDL (3H-LDL) at 37 degrees C demonstrated the cell-associated 125I-LDL and 3H-LDL increase. The intracellular degradation of protein moiety increased linearly with time. Reductive methylation of 3H-LDL led to a remarkable decrease in the cell-associated cholesterol moiety of LDL. The difference in uptake of the cholesterol moiety of LDL between U-251MG cells and KMG-5 cells showed that the U-251MG cells, which proliferate more actively than KMG-5 cells, take up more of the cholesterol moiety of LDL than do the KMG-5 cells. Thus, LDL cholesterol seems to be endocytosed predominantly via the LDL receptor present on the plasma membrane of malignant glioma cells. In addition, for growth, these cells may require large amounts of the cholesterol moiety of LDL. 
The changing pattern of infective endocarditis in childhood. Forty-eight cases of infective endocarditis (IE) that occurred in 42 patients with congenital heart disease were reviewed from 1970 through 1990 and were compared with a 20-year review of 108 cases diagnosed between 1953 and 1972. The review demonstrates that the natural history of IE in children has changed over the last 2 decades, with half of the cases occurring after surgery for congenital heart disease. In the postoperative group, 46% of patients had undergone valve replacement and 7 of these (29%) had a right ventricular to pulmonary artery valved conduit as the site for IE, suggesting significant additional risk in this setting. Among patients with nonsurgically treated congenital heart disease and IE, mitral valve prolapse has emerged as an important underlying heart lesion occurring in 29% of patients. The bacterial spectrum has shifted, with a significant increase in the incidence of uncommon causative organisms. Mortality has continued to decline with survivorship of 90% in this series. 
Hip disarticulation: factors affecting outcome. Hip disarticulation, especially in patients with peripheral vascular disease, has been associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. This report describes patient characteristics that influence the clinical outcome of hip disarticulation. The medical records of all patients undergoing hip disarticulation from 1966 to 1989 were reviewed for surgical indication, perioperative wound complications, and postoperative deaths. Fifty-three patients underwent hip disarticulation for limb ischemia (10), infection (12), infection and ischemia (14), or tumor (17). The overall incidence of wound complications was 60%, and no significant differences were found among the groups. Prior above-knee amputation and urgent/emergent operations were significantly associated with increased wound complications (p less than 0.05). The overall mortality rate was 21%, ranging from 0% (tumor) to 50% (ischemia) and differed significantly among the groups (p less than 0.02). Mortality was significantly associated with urgent/emergent operations (p less than 0.01). Age, diabetes mellitus, and previous inflow procedures did not influence mortality rates. The presence of limb ischemia influenced mortality rates to a greater extent than did infection, and a history of cardiac disease was statistically predictive of death. Wound complications frequently accompanied hip disarticulation, regardless of operative indication, and were significantly increased by urgent/emergent operations and prior above-knee amputation. Hip disarticulation can be performed with low mortality rates in selected patients. Both limb ischemia and infection substantially increase operative mortality rates. 
Treatment of hypertensive urgencies with oral nifedipine, nicardipine, and captopril. Sixty-five patients with uncomplicated hypertensive urgencies were treated in the emergency and cardiology departments with 20 mg nifedipine, 20 mg nicardipine, or 25 mg captopril in a randomized study. The study population consisted of 65 patients ranging in age from forty-one to seventy-one. Blood pressure and heart rate were assessed for six hours after intake of the antihypertensive agents. Within sixty minutes nifedipine reduced blood pressure by an average of 74.7 mmHg for the systolic and 35.4 mmHg for the diastolic. Average heart rate increased significantly by 11.6 beats/min at within thirty minutes. Nicardipine and captopril produced equivalent falls in systolic (-81.6 and -79.4 mmHg) and diastolic (-37.3 and -33 mmHg) blood pressure respectively, but did not increase heart rate significantly. The antihypertensive effect of each drug was maintained until six hours after medication. In conclusion, nifedipine, nicardipine, and captopril show similar efficacy in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies. The authors believe that these drugs can be used as first-line therapy in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies safely and effectively. 
Linkage analysis in spinal muscular atrophy, by six closely flanking markers on chromosome 5. The proximal spinal muscular atrophies (SMA) represent the second most common autosomal recessive disorder, after cystic fibrosis. The gene responsible for chronic SMA has recently been mapped to chromosome 5q by using genetic linkage studies. Among six markers mapping to this region, five were shown to be linked with the SMA locus in 39 chronic SMA families each containing at least two affected individuals. Multilocus analysis by the method of location score was used to establish the best estimate of the SMA gene location. Our data suggest that the most likely location for SMA is between loci D5S6 and D5S39. The genetic distances between these two markers are estimated to be 6.4 cM in males and 11.9 cM in females. Since meiosis were informative with D5S39 and D5S6 in 92% and 87% of SMA families, respectively, it is hoped that the present study will contribute to the calculation of genetic risk in SMA families. 
Neonatal diaphragmatic paralysis caused by chest drains. A boy delivered at 32 weeks' gestation developed bilateral pneumothoraces that required multiple chest drains. He was dependent on the ventilator for 52 days because of bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis. Electrophysiological studies confirmed phrenic nerve damage. He eventually made a full recovery. It is likely that this damage was caused by the insertion of the chest drains. 
Clinical follow-up and progression of carotid atherosclerosis determined by duplex scanning in patients suffering from TIA. We investigated the clinical outcomes and the progression of the internal carotid arterial lesions of a group of patients presenting with hemispheric TIAs. The cumulative frequency of TIAs during a mean follow-up period of 40 +/- 14 months was 14%, and no relationship was found between new TIAs and the presence of known cardiovascular risk factors or plaque characteristics as determined by duplex scanning. With the exception of one patient who died of stroke, none of the patients developed a permanent neurologic deficit. The cumulative death rate was 6.5%; myocardial infarction was the most common cause (3 out of 7). Anatomic progression of plaques was determined by duplex scanning in 22% of the internal carotid arteries. No relationship between progression of these plaques and the development of new TIAs was evident. We conclude that, in this group of patients, TIAs do not inevitably lead to stroke and that TIAs are not predictable based on risk factors or plaques characteristics. 
Knowledge of diagnosis and reproductive history among survivors of childhood plumbism. As part of a study of the long-term consequences of childhood plumbism, 35 survivors of lead poisoning in the period 1930 through 1944 were interviewed along with 22 controls matched for age, sex, and town of residence. Subjects were asked to recall all pregnancies they engendered (men) or carried (women), outcome, and intellectual development of resulting children. Matched female plumbism subjects reported a higher proportion of spontaneous abortion or stillbirths among pregnancies (relative risk = 1.60, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.6-4.0) and a higher proportion of learning disabilities among school-age children (relative risk = 3.0, 95% CI = 0.9-10.2) in comparison with their controls. There was no evidence of clustering of learning disabilities within families or confounding by parental educational level. These results suggest that women with a history of childhood lead poisoning may be at risk for having spontaneous abortions or stillbirths and having children who manifest significant learning disabilities. 
Heparin treatment in sinus venous thrombosis. Treatment of sinus venous thrombosis (SVT) is controversial. Although heparin has been used for this condition, many investigators have opposed its use because of the frequent occurrence of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) and SVT. Therefore we have evaluated anticoagulation with adjusted-dose intravenous heparin for treatment of aseptic SVT in a randomised, blinded (patient and observer), placebo-controlled study in 20 patients (10 heparin, 10 placebo). The clinical course of the two groups, as judged by a newly designed SVT-severity scale, started to differ in favour of the heparin group after 3 days of treatment (p less than 0.05, Mann-Whitney U-test) and the difference remained significant (p less than 0.01) after 8 days of treatment. After 3 months, 8 of the heparin-treated patients had a complete clinical recovery and 2 had slight residual neurological deficits. In the placebo group, only 1 patient had a complete recovery, 6 patients had neurological deficits, and 3 patients died (p less than 0.01, modified Fisher's exact test). An additional retrospective study on the relation between heparin treatment and ICH in SVT patients was based on 102 patients, 43 of whom had an ICH. 27 of these patients were treated with dose-adjusted, intravenous heparin after the ICH. Of these 27 patients, 4 died (mortality 15%), and 14 patients completely recovered. Of the 13 patients that did not receive heparin after ICH, 9 died (mortality 69%) and only 3 patients completely recovered. We conclude that anticoagulation with dose-adjusted intravenous heparin is an effective treatment in patients with SVT and that ICH is not a contraindication to heparin treatment in these patients. 
Computer- and robot-assisted resection of thalamic astrocytomas in children. Six children ranging in age from 2 to 10 years who harbored deep benign astrocytomas were operated upon using a computer- and robot-assisted system. A radical excision was achieved in all cases with no significant morbidity nor any mortality. The system consists of an interactive, three-dimensional display of computed tomographic image contours and digitized cerebral angiograms taken using the Brown-Roberts-Wells stereotactic frame. The surgical retractor is held and manipulated using a PUMA 200 robot. The position and orientation of the surgical retractor is displayed on the three-dimensional display. Preoperative planning and simulation are important features of this system. Movement of the brain after removal of the tumor and cerebrospinal fluid is substantial, so the tumor removal is based on visually defined margins. Enhanced computer graphics and robotic devices are important adjuncts to neurosurgical procedures and will find increasing use in the future. 
Reversal of a dense, persistent, holohemispheric neurological deficit after an endarterectomy of the carotid artery: case report. The role and timing of a carotid endarterectomy in the setting of an acute ischemic stroke-in-evolution remain controversial. Although computed tomographic (CT) scans typically show no abnormalities in the acute stage, it is generally agreed that a dense neurological deficit (hemiplegia) and/or multiple modality neurological disturbance (involving motor, sensory, gaze, and visual field impairment) represent contraindications to surgical intervention. We present a case of an acute right holohemispheric neurological deficit including dense hemiplegia, hemisensory loss, gaze disturbance, hemineglect, and impaired level of consciousness. This persisted for 4 days while serial CT scans showed no evidence of infarction. Angiography revealed pre-occlusive stenosis of the right internal carotid artery with sluggish antegrade flow. The anterior collaterals of the circle of Willis were impaired, and the right middle cerebral artery territory filled via the posterior communicating artery. Despite the dense neurological deficit persisting for 4 days, a carotid endarterectomy was performed. Gradual neurological improvement was noted within hours of the operation, and all neurological deficits resolved within the subsequent 3 days. This case is consistent with prolonged holohemispheric hemodynamic compromise below the threshold of neurological dysfunction, but above the threshold of tissue infarction ("idling neurons"). Features assisting in the recognition of this unusual scenario and the indications and risks of revascularization in this setting are discussed. 
Cocaine-associated chest pain. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical and ECG features of cocaine abusers evaluated in the emergency department and admitted to the medical coronary care unit with chest pain consistent with myocardial ischemia. DESIGN: A four-month retrospective review of all cocaine abusers who presented to the ED with chest pain and a diagnosis of possible myocardial infarction. SETTING: Urban county hospital. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Forty-eight adult cocaine abusers admitted with chest pain. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients included 34 men and 14 women with a mean age of 29 +/- 7.3 years. The average duration of cocaine abuse in 28 patients for whom it was reported was 5 +/- 4.8 years. Chest pain occurred within one hour of cocaine abuse in 13 admissions (27%), more than one hour after abuse in 13 admissions (27%), and it was not recorded in 23 admissions (47%). Initial ECGs were evaluated in all patients and revealed significant repolarization abnormalities consisting of abnormal ST segment elevations in 18 (37%) and T-wave inversions in 20 (41%) that often persisted on subsequent ECGs. Three patients sustained acute myocardial infarctions. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm a small but significant incidence of myocardial infarction in cocaine abusers presenting to the ED with chest pain. The chronicity of cocaine abuse, the persistence of ECG abnormalities, and the variable temporal relationship of chest pain to cocaine abuse suggest possible chronic myocardial changes as etiologies of ischemia. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of proximal subclavian artery stenosis after left internal mammary to left anterior descending artery bypass surgery. A patient is described who underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, through a brachial approach, of a high grade stenosis at the proximal portion of the left subclavian artery 1.5 years after coronary artery bypass grafting including left internal mammary to left anterior descending artery anastomosis. Symptoms of class IV angina, vertebrobasilar insufficiency and occupational arm claudication that developed after bypass surgery were promptly relieved after balloon dilation. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian artery can be performed safely and provides an alternative to carotid-subclavian or axillary-axillary bypass surgery for treatment of internal mammary artery graft malfunction. 
Plasma levels of an endogenous Na(+)-K+ pump inhibitor in relation to haemodynamic data in cardiopathic patients. 1. Despite the fact that numerous studies provide evidence for the existence of an endogenous inhibitor of the cell membrane Na(+)-K+ pump in plasma, little is known about the relationships between this factor and the main haemodynamic parameters. 2. In order to shed some light on this, we attempted to correlate haemodynamic parameters, measured during heart catheterization in a group of 22 cardiopathic subjects, with plasma digitalis-like activity levels, determined by two different procedures. 3. The ability of plasma to inhibit a human renal Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase showed an inverse correlation with cardiac index and a direct correlation with peripheral resistance. Plasma cross-reactivity with digoxin antibodies correlated directly with left atrial pressure. 4. These results furnish confirmation of a number of theoretical assumptions which attribute to the digitalis-like factor the ability to modify the contractility of the cardiovascular system. 
Nosocomial pneumonia in the critically ill: product of aspiration or translocation? OBJECTIVE: To examine the possibility that nosocomial pneumonias might be caused by the translocation of enteric bacteria and their toxins. DESIGN: Prospectively collected previous database was examined by logistic regression analysis. SETTING: University medical center. PATIENTS: Sixty-two ICU patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The best stand-alone predictors for nosocomial pneumonia were bleeding from stress ulceration (p less than .001), the severity of illness present (p less than .001), and intramucosal acidosis in the stomach (p = .023), a metabolic indication of mucosal ischemia. Mechanical ventilation (p = .038) and the administration of antacids/cimetidine (p = .054) were also of stand-alone predictive value, but did not significantly improve the best predictive model for nosocomial pneumonia derived from the severity of illness present and the intramucosal pH in the stomach. CONCLUSIONS: The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that ischemic mucosal injury and its associated translocation of enteric bacteria and toxins might be more important in the pathogenesis of nosocomial pneumonia in the critically ill than the aspiration of contaminated nasopharyngeal secretions. 
Female DUI offenders: a comparison to male counterparts and an examination of the effects of intervention on women's recidivism rates. Female DUI offenders who participated in a controlled, random assignment DUI intervention study, the Mississippi DUI Probation Follow-Up Project, were compared to their male counterparts on demographic, drinker status and recidivism variables. In comparison to men, women in the project were less likely to be married, more likely to be between 30 and 50 years of age, less likely to have less than a 9th grade education, less likely to be screened as a high-problem-risk drinker, less likely to have prior DUI and public drunkenness arrests and less likely to recidivate. The effects of short-term rehabilitation, 1 year's probation and administration of the Life Activities Inventory-Current Status Questionnaire (LAI-CSQ) on the long-term recidivism rates of women were examined. The analysis for screened low-problem-risk women was inconclusive due to lack of statistical power. However, the repeated administration of the LAI-CSQ was detrimental for screened high-problem-risk women and tended to be detrimental for women with fewer than 12 years of education. Implications for intervening with female DUIs are discussed. 
Risk of peritonitis and fatal septicaemia and the need to defunction the low anastomosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the need to defunction the low anastomosis after anterior resection of the rectum with total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer. Two hundred consecutive patients (125 defunctioned, 75 non-defunctioned) undergoing low anterior resection for carcinoma were included in the study. Peritonitis requiring emergency laparotomy occurred in 8 per cent of the patients who did not have a defunctioning stoma compared with less than 1 per cent of those patients who had a defunctioning stoma (P less than 0.01). There was no mortality related to closure of the stoma but seven patients developed a faecal fistula and ten developed an incisional hernia. Despite current trends to avoid the defunctioning stoma, these results suggest that after total mesorectal excision the faecal stream should be temporarily diverted away from the anastomosis that is 6 cm or less from the anal verge to protect against potentially life-threatening anastomotic leakage. 
Laser laparoscopic vagotomy and pyloromyotomy. We performed bilateral truncal vagotomy and gastric drainage procedure using standard laparoscopic instruments in five mongrel dogs. The procedure consisted of a transthoracic thoracoscopic bilateral truncal vagotomy and transperitoneal laparoscopic pyloromyotomy. A contact Nd:YAG laser fiber was used. There was no mortality, minimal morbidity, and post-operative gastric emptying was satisfactory. Pathologic studies indicated vagotomy was complete. We believe that this may be the initial step in the development of a simple, safe, and effective endoscopic procedure for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. 
Reoperations for late complications following abdominal aortic operation. Fifty patients were identified who, following abdominal aortic operation, developed late complications affecting the vascular graft or endarterectomy and who underwent their first reoperation between 1979 and 1989. Thrombosis was the commonest complication affecting 28 (56 per cent) patients, followed by false aneurysm in 11 (22 per cent), enteric fistula in nine (18 per cent) and graft infection in two (4 per cent). The 30-day mortality rate for reoperation was 8 per cent; longer follow-up revealed mortality rates of 22, 50 and 63 per cent at 1, 3 and 5 years respectively. Thirty-four complications required reoperation within 5 years of the original surgery. Reoperation was needed for 35 patients whose original pathology was occlusive disease and for 15 whose original pathology was aneurysm. The nature of the complication was related to initial pathology; thrombosis was far commoner in those with occlusive disease, and enteric fistula and false aneurysm were commoner in those with aneurysmal disease. 
Delayed cardiac rupture due to blunt chest trauma. A 7-year-old boy fell from a 2.5-m height and suffered contusion of the thorax with hematoma in the soft tissues of the lateral chest wall. The rib cage itself remained intact. After 3 days, there was only local pressure sensitivity of the left hemithorax. On day 8 after the trauma, the child, who up to then had seemed to be in good health, suddenly died during lessons at school. Autopsy revealed a full-thickness rupture of the left ventricle with resultant cardiac tamponade. The macroscopic and histopathologic findings are presented and discussed. 
Frequency of adverse systemic reactions after fluorescein angiography. Results of a prospective study. Intravenous fluorescein angiography is a commonly performed and extraordinarily valuable diagnostic procedure. The frequency of adverse reactions after angiography has varied considerably in previous reports. In a prospective study of 2789 angiographic procedures in 2025 patients, the authors found that the percentage of adverse reactions depended strongly on the patient's angiographic history. Overall, adverse reactions followed 4.8% of the angiographic procedures. These reactions included nausea (2.9%), vomiting (1.2%), flushing/itching/hives (0.5%), and other reactions (dyspnea, syncope, excessive sneezing) (0.2%). No cases of anaphylaxis, myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, or seizures occurred. The percentage of reactions was 1.8% for patients who had had previous angiography without ever having had an adverse reaction. In contrast, the percentage of reactions was 48.6% for patients who had had an adverse reaction to angiography previously. 
Cerebrospinal fluid interleukins, immunoglobulins, and fibronectin in neuroborreliosis. Intrathecal synthesis of IgM and IgG, oligoclonal immunoglobulin bands, and the levels of fibronectin, soluble interleukin 2 receptor, interleukin 6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha were investigated with the use of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 46 paired cerebrospinal fluid and serum samples from 32 patients with meningopolyradiculoneuritis due to Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme borreliosis stage 2). Cerebrospinal fluid and serum interleukin 6, although not specific for neuroborreliosis, were good indicators of disease activity, while the serum soluble interleukin 2 receptor level was only mildly elevated. Tumor necrosis factor alpha was never detected in cerebrospinal fluid or serum specimens, and cerebrospinal fluid IgM, IgM index, and cerebrospinal fluid IgM/cerebrospinal fluid IgG ratios were significantly higher than in all other neuroimmunologic disorders evaluated and may be valuable diagnostic indicators for neuroborreliosis. The estimation of intrathecally synthesized IgG and IgM fractions for the differential diagnosis of neuroimmunologic disorders did not add to IgG and IgM index calculations. 
Hippocampal degeneration differentiates diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD) from Alzheimer's disease: light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry of CA2-3 neurites specific to DLBD. Immunocytochemistry with antibodies to ubiquitin is currently the most sensitive method for detecting cortical Lewy bodies, which are a sine qua non for the diagnosis of diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), an increasingly recognized form of primary degenerative dementia. In the systematic application of ubiquitin immunocytochemistry to sections of hippocampus from control subjects and patients with a wide spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases, we noted the frequent occurrence of ubiquitin-immunoreactive neurites in the CA2-3 region in DLBD. The nature of these neurites was investigated with immunocytochemistry in DLBD, Alzheimer's disease (AD), normal elderly subjects, and Parkinson's disease (PD). Although the number of neurites varied from case to case, they were virtually always detected in DLBD but not in normal, AD, or PD brains. Double immunolabeling studies with anti-ubiquitin demonstrated a small fraction of double-stained neurites with antibodies to neurofilament or Alz-50, but no double staining with an antibody to Alzheimer neurofibrillary tangles. These results are different from those for neurites in AD, which are rarely seen in CA2-3 and which are immunoreactive with all these antibodies. Neuritic degeneration in the CA2-3 region of the hippocampus appears to be a specific histopathologic feature of DLBD. 
Pregnancy after myocardial infarction: are we playing safe? The safety of pregnancy after myocardial infarction remains a significant dilemma for both the obstetrician and the cardiologist. Only 20 cases of pregnancy after myocardial infarction have been reported. To clarify this problem, we add our experience of four such cases in which conception occurred 9 months to 9 years after myocardial infarction with no previous consultation. Each woman had an uneventful pregnancy with no cardiac or obstetric complications related to the myocardial infarction. All patients were under the strict supervision of an obstetrician and a cardiologist during pregnancy in our conjoined antepartum-cardiologic clinic. The mode of delivery in all patients was related to the obstetric indications. Our experience and the accumulated experience in the literature demonstrate good prognosis for patients who conceive after myocardial infarction. 
The effect of the pneumatic antishock garment (PASG) on hemodynamics, hemorrhage, and survival in penetrating thoracic aortic injury. To determine if the increased blood pressure associated with application of a pneumatic antishock garment (PASG) affects outcome in thoracic hemorrhage, we assessed hemodynamics, blood loss, and survival in three groups of eight anaesthetized piglets with a 2.5-mm laceration of the descending thoracic aorta. Baseline measurements were made before aortic hemorrhage. During one hour of aortic hemorrhage or until death of the animal, the PASG was not inflated in Group I while the PASG in the other two groups was inflated to maintain carotid artery pressure at 15 torr below baseline (Group II) and at baseline (Group III), respectively. Survival was 100% in Group I, 50% in Group II, and 0% in Group III. Hemorrhage at 22.5 +/- 4.0 mL/min stopped after 18-24 minutes in Group I; the survivors in Group II bled at a rate of 32.5 +/- 3.0 mL/min compared with 43.6 +/- 4.0 mL/min over 26-35 minutes in the Group II nonsurvivors. Group III pigs bled at 107.5 +/- 8.0 mL/min over the 10-18 minutes of survival. The intended blood pressure could not be maintained beyond 30 minutes. Bleeding stopped in Group I when the blood pressure fell to 58.2 +/- 4.5 torr from a baseline of 119.0 +/- 10.0 torr. The blood pressure fell to 48.0 +/- 5.0 torr in the four Group-II survivors. After a transient maintenance of baseline blood pressure in Group III, a precipitous drop in blood pressure with death in 10-18 minutes occurred in all these animals. In this porcine model of thoracic aortic injury, PASG inflation increases hemorrhage and mortality. 
Soft-tissue sarcoma: MR imaging vs sonography for detection of local recurrence after surgery. To determine the value of MR and sonography in detecting local recurrences of soft-tissue sarcomas after surgery, 26 MR and sonographic studies performed in 21 patients were reviewed retrospectively. Recurrences were confirmed histologically in 12 (46%) of 26 studies. The MR images and sonograms were obtained within 1 month of each other. The findings were classified as recurrence, no recurrence, or indeterminate. Sonography was instrumental in guiding fine-needle aspiration biopsy of impalpable lesions. In two cases, the findings on sonography were indeterminate. In both of these cases, the sonograms had been obtained soon after surgery (at 2 and 4 months). The sensitivity and specificity in the detection of local recurrences were 83% and 93%, respectively, for MR and 100% and 79%, respectively, for sonography. These differences were not statistically significant. We conclude that MR and sonography appear to be equally useful in the detection of local recurrences of soft-tissue sarcomas, sonography can be used for routine follow-up and in guiding needle biopsies, sonography may be more difficult to interpret than MR during the early postoperative period, and MR should be used if sonography is inconclusive. 
Circulating and tissue endothelin immunoreactivity in advanced atherosclerosis. BACKGROUND. Atherosclerosis is characterized by endothelial injury and the proliferation of arterial smooth-muscle cells. The latter may be a result of the release of growth factors from the vessel wall; such growth factors may include an endothelium-derived vasoconstrictor for peptide with mitogenic properties. We tested the hypothesis that plasma endothelin concentrations are elevated in persons with symptomatic atherosclerosis, independently of age. METHODS. We measured plasma endothelin levels in 100 normal subjects and in 40 patients with atherosclerosis predominantly of the following types: aortic and peripheral vascular disease (14 patients), renovascular disease (9 patients) coronary artery disease (9 patients), and carotid disease (8 patients). We also performed immunohistochemical staining for endothelin in the walls of atherosclerotic vessels. RESULTS. In the normal subjects, the mean (+/- SD) plasma endothelin concentration was 1.4 +/- 0.2 pmol per liter, with no correlation between age and plasma endothelin concentration (r = 0.13, P = 0.2). In the patients with symptomatic atherosclerosis, the mean plasma endothelin concentration was 3.2 +/- 1.2 pmol per liter (P less than 0.001), and there was a significant correlation between plasma endothelin and the number of sites of disease involvement (r = 0.89, P less than 0.001). In the immunohistochemical studies, endothelin-1-like immunoreactivity was observed in vascular smooth muscle as well as in endothelial cells. CONCLUSIONS. Endothelin may be a marker for arterial vascular disease. Whether it participates in the atherogenic process or is merely released from damaged endothelial cells is unclear. 
Acute cutaneous vasculitis associated with prolonged intravenous ritodrine hydrochloride therapy. A patient with twin gestation was hospitalized because of preterm labor and treated with intravenous ritodrine hydrochloride (Yutopar, Astra Pharmaceutical Products, Westborough, Mass.). After greater than 4 weeks of therapy, the patient had a petechial rash and prolonged bleeding time, which were diagnosed and confirmed by skin biopsy at cesarean section as vasculitis. This is the first documented case of vasculitis associated with ritodrine use. 
Defining the proper role for self-administered sublingual nitroglycerin. A survey of physicians and patients. Within a half-year period, we encountered six cases of patients harmed by the adverse effects of self-administered nitroglycerin--syncope, delayed definitive medical care, and the worsening of nonischemic symptoms. We therefore surveyed 112 patients after a remote myocardial infarction, and 121 cardiologists and internists, regarding the use of sublingual nitroglycerin. Of the physicians, 84 percent routinely prescribed nitroglycerin to patients after a myocardial infarction, and 79 percent of the patients had the tablets available (83 percent of these, at all times). Most patients used the tablets less than once per month, and 37 percent of the patients who always carried nitroglycerin had not used it at all during the preceding year. Although 89 percent of the patients claimed to know when to use the drug, 57 percent had used it or would use it for symptoms such as dizziness, rapid heartbeat, or presyncope. All patients having nitroglycerin claimed it relieved their symptoms, even if the relief was only partial, the time elapsed until relief could not be specified, and the symptoms were of a type unlikely to be relieved by the drug. We suggest that the practice of routinely prescribing nitroglycerin to patients after a myocardial infarction should be reassessed. 
A 'stress' test for memory dysfunction. Electrophysiologic manifestations of early Alzheimer's disease. Long-latency event-related potentials (P300) were assessed in patients with early probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), age-matched controls, and young adults during a task that imposed various degrees of demand on memory. Although patients with AD did not differ from age-matched controls when one item had to be remembered, their P300 potential was dramatically reduced in amplitude or absent with increasing memory load. Aged controls did not differ from young adults on this measure. P300 latency, however, did not differentiate patients with AD. Thus, electrophysiological abnormalities detected in the context of mnemonic demand may provide a sensitive marker of the early stages of probable AD. 
In vitro comparison of different gall stone dissolution solvents. Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) of gall bladder stones leaves residual fragments that need to be dissolved by chemical solvents. In this study we compared the in vitro dissolving capacity of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), mono-octanoin, limonene, and limonene/mono-octanoin (70%/30%). From nine sets of five human gall stones obtained at cholecystectomy, four stones were used for dissolution and the fifth was used for chemical analysis of cholesterol, calcium, and bilirubin contents. Eight sets were cholesterol stones with a mean (SD) cholesterol content of 89.9 (5.6)%. These stones dissolved completely in either solvent, often leaving sand-like debris, with the exception of one stone. MTBE dissolved cholesterol gall stones 100 times faster than mono-octanoin and 10 times faster than limonene or the limonene/mono-octanoin mixture (p less than 0.001). The combination of limonene and mono-octanoin was as effective as limonene alone. Of the four solvents, MTBE is the best one to evaluate for dissolution of residual fragments after ESWL treatment of gall bladder stones. 
Changes in the serum levels of CK-MB, LDH, LDH1, SGOT and myoglobin due to cardiac surgery. Elevation of serum levels of enzymes due to myocardial necrosis is considered to be a specific finding for myocardial infarction. This study was designed to determine the changes in the levels of LDH, SGOT enzymes, LDH1, CK-MB isoenzymes and myoglobin in patients who have had coronary bypass grafting and who have had atriotomy for surgical correction without any evidence of myocardial infarction diagnosed by clinical, hemodynamic and electrocardiographic findings. It was found that CK-MB, LDH, LDH1 and myoglobin showed significant elevations which mimicked a perioperative myocardial infarction. SGOT also increased, but remained within the normal range. CK-MB, LDH and LDH1 increased more in the coronary bypass grafted patients whereas myoglobin increased in the patients who had atriotomies. It was concluded that in order to demonstrate a perioperative myocardial infarction it is necessary to determine at least two of these enzymes for a long period and to correlate these results with the clinical, hemodynamic and electrocardiographic findings. 
Non-infective verrucous endocarditis in a patient with 'primary' antiphospholipid syndrome. A 27-year-old women with 'primary' antiphospholipid syndrome, who developed a haemodynamically significant non-infective verrucous endocarditis is reported. Her mother suffered from antiphospholipid syndrome associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. A pathogenetic role of antiphospholipid antibodies in heart valve lesions is suggested. 
The prevention of the maternal manifestations of pre-eclampsia by intensive antihypertensive treatment. The purpose of the study was to determine if reduction of pregnancy hypertension to normal prevented the clinical maternal manifestations of pre-eclampsia. Thirty-six women with hypertension, but without proteinuria, were allotted at random to a test group of 17 who received intensive treatment, and a control group of 19 who were managed according to routine methods by hospital staff unconnected with the study. The development of proteinuria was chosen as an indicator of pre-eclampsia. Proteinuria developed significantly more often in the control group (in six of the 19 women) than in the test group (in one of the 17 women). 
The myth of the aortic annulus: the anatomy of the subaortic outflow tract. Surgical repair of the small aortic root is limited in part by the very structure of the outflow tract from the left ventricle. The root is not constructed on the basis of a ringlike annulus supporting the leaflets of the aortic valve. The only truly circular structure within the outflow tract is the junction of the aortic wall with the underlying ventricular structures, themselves partly muscular and partly fibrous. This circular ventriculoarterial junction is crossed by the semilunar attachments of the leaflets of the aortic valve, producing an interlinking arrangement between the expanded aortic sinuses and three triangles of fibrous tissue placed beneath the apexes of the commissures between the valve leaflets. The triangles form extensions of the left ventricle that are related, in part, to the pericardial cavity surrounding the heart. The arrangements of the attachment of the leaflets in malformed valves with two (or only one) effective leaflets are highly abnormal, although these valves are usually produced on the template of three aortic sinuses. The valve with two leaflets rarely gives problems during childhood. In valves producing "critical stenosis", there is usually only one effective leaflet, a condition due to incomplete liberation of two of the anticipated three commissures. Detailed study shows that, in these malformed hearts, the attachment of the leaflets is much more annular than in normal valves, with inadequate formation of the fibrous triangles. 
Treatment of acute systemic toxicity after the rapid intravenous injection of ropivacaine and bupivacaine in the conscious dog. Two groups of six beagle dogs received rapid intravenous (IV) injections of ropivacaine or bupivacaine on two occasions in a blinded random fashion. Initially, a dose sufficient to cause convulsions (CD) was given followed by twice the CD (2 x CD), which was administered 48 h later. The CD of bupivacaine (4.3 mg/kg) and ropivacaine (4.9 mg/kg) caused significant (P less than 0.05) increases in heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure. There was no difference between drug groups. Seizures were abolished by 10 mg/kg of intravenous thiamylal. Endotracheal intubation and controlled respiration with O2-enriched air with no other treatment resulted in rapid and complete recovery in all dogs. All dogs receiving 2 x CD of bupivacaine (8.6 mg/kg) or ropivacaine (9.8 mg/kg) were initially treated with thiamylal and mechanical ventilation. Two dogs in the bupivacaine group developed hypotension, respiratory arrest, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation, which were resistant to closed chest cardiac massage, treatment with epinephrine, bretylium, and atropine, and direct current cardioversion. The four remaining dogs in the infusion group were successfully resuscitated. All of the animals in the ropivacaine-treated group survived the administration of the 2 x CD dose. Mild hypotension developed in one dog and was treated with intravenous epinephrine (0.75 mg). This resulted in nodal tachycardia, which was abolished after treatment with bretylium. Another dog had two 1-s bursts of premature ventricular contractions requiring no treatment. The rapid treatment of convulsions and cardiovascular toxicity resulted in a decreased number of deaths in both groups when compared with dogs from a previously published study in which no therapy was instituted. Thus, early aggressive treatment of central nervous system and cardiovascular system toxicity is capable of reducing the incidence of mortality associated with the rapid intravenous administration of excessive doses of local anesthetics. 
Abdominal wall tenderness: a useful sign in chronic abdominal pain. The outcome in 72 patients with obscure abdominal pain and a positive Carnett's (abdominal wall tenderness) test, seen in one firm's surgical outpatient clinic between 1975 and 1983, was sought by a combination of hospital note retrieval and general practitioner questionnaire. Full follow-up data to date or death were available for 58 (81 per cent) patients and partial follow-up for 14 patients. The study showed that the patients generated a good deal of investigation and a number of surgical procedures but that seldom were their symptoms attributable to serious pathology. Familiarity with the test, taken in the context of a proper history and examination, has been found helpful in assessing such patients and saves the inconvenience, expense and occasional hazard of investigation, and even surgery. 
Long-term results after lateral cranial base surgery. The surgical management of patients with slow-growing benign temporal bone neoplasms has been criticized because of its significant morbidity and mortality compared with results after radiation therapy, but long-term control by irradiation remains unproved. Long-term surgical results have not been studied previously. One hundred twenty-nine skull base operations were performed in 126 patients at the Otology Group, Nashville, Tenn., from January 1970 through May 1987. Fifty-eight patients responded to questionnaires focusing on recovery from loss of cranial nerves. All patients regained some degree of facial function (class V or better), no alimentary tubes or tracheotomies were in use, and no patients had debilitating aspiration. Long-term compensation from the cranial nerve deficits of lateral skull base surgery can be expected in most patients and should not be used as an argument for irradiation in patients with a long life expectancy at time of diagnosis. 
Pulsed dye laser lithotripsy of bile duct stones. Efficacy and safety of pulsed dye laser lithotripsy was tested in 25 consecutive patients in whom bile duct stones could not be extracted after endoscopic sphincterotomy. The patients had one to six (mean, 1.8) bile duct stones (diameter, 10-35 mm; mean, 18 mm) located in the common bile duct (18 cases), the intrahepatic bile ducts (6 cases), or in a long cystic duct stump (1 case). Different approaches were tested depending on the presence of a T tube and on the localization of the bile duct stones. When a T tube was present (7 cases), the lithotripsy was performed under direct vision using a choledochoscope inserted through the T-tube tract. In 18 patients without a T tube in place, the lithotripsy was performed under fluoroscopy using a retrograde approach in case of common bile duct stones (14 cases) or under choledochoscopy using a percutaneous transhepatic approach in case of intrahepatic bile duct stones (4 cases). Fragmentation of all the bile duct stones and a complete bile duct clearance were obtained in all 11 cases with procedures performed under direct vision as compared with only 5 of 14 cases with procedures under fluoroscopic control. Moreover, 6 of the 9 failures using the latter approach were offered another session using a choledochoscope inserted through a percutaneous transhepatic tract and were also successfully treated. No complication related to the laser beam was noted. It is concluded that pulsed dye laser lithotripsy of bile duct stones (that are unable to be removed by standard endoscopic techniques) is safe and efficacious provided that it is performed under direct vision. Technical refinements are needed before this procedure can be reliably performed under fluoroscopy. 
Complications of endoscopic sphincterotomy. A prospective series with emphasis on the increased risk associated with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction and nondilated bile ducts. Mostly retrospective series with limited use of sphincter of Oddi manometry have indicated that early complications are more common when endoscopic sphincterotomy is performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction than for common duct stones. The current study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the frequency and type of complications of endoscopic sphincterotomy performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction compared with endoscopic sphincterotomy performed for other conditions. Four hundred twenty-three patients underwent sphincterotomy for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (166), common duct stone(s) (163), tumor (60), and miscellaneous reasons (34). Patients were observed in the hospital for at least 24 hours after the procedure, and 30-day follow-up data were obtained. The overall complication rate was 6.9%, but complications were more frequent when sphincterotomy was performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction than for all other indications (10.8% vs. 4.3%; P = 0.009). Precut sphincterotomy was more frequently required in the sphincter of Oddi dysfunction group (21.1% vs. 11.7%, P = 0.009) but was no more likely to result in a complication (6.2%) than standard sphincterotomy. The risk of a complication was considerable for a small-diameter common bile duct (less than or equal to 5 mm), particularly when sphincterotomy was performed for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (37.5%). The overall 30-day mortality rate was 1.7%, but the procedure-related mortality rate was believed to be 0.2%. It is concluded that endoscopic sphincterotomy for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction is more hazardous than for other conditions, particularly when a small common bile duct is present. 
Utilization of bone scans in conjunction with prostate-specific antigen levels in the surveillance for recurrence of adenocarcinoma after radical prostatectomy. Follow-up evaluation of patients who have undergone radical prostatectomy routinely consists of serial bone scintigraphy and, more recently, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. The utility of serial bone scans in combination with PSA levels is retrospectively reviewed in 118 men treated by radical prostatectomy for clinical Stage A or B disease who, at the time of surgery, had no evidence of metastatic disease. Of the 118 patients, 75.4% had no abnormality on either test (mean follow-up 32.4 mo), 9.3% demonstrated a detectable or rising PSA level with negative bone scan (mean follow-up 35 mo), and 8.5% exhibited a detectable and or rising PSA level and positive bone scan (mean follow-up 30.7 mo). Follow-up bone scans were read as either positive or indeterminate with undetectable PSA levels in 6.8% of patients (mean follow-up 27.3 mo). Critical review of the equivocal studies suggests that postoperative PSA levels more truly represent the clinical situation than bone scans. Following radical prostatectomy, routine bone scintigraphy provides little additional information when PSA levels are negative. If PSA becomes detectable or the patient develops symptoms, bone scintigraphy should then be performed. 
Intrahypothalamic clonidine infusion prevents NaCl-sensitive hypertension. We have previously shown that dietary NaCl supplementation increases blood pressure and sympathetic nervous system activity in association with decreased norepinephrine release and increased alpha 2-adrenergic receptor number in the anterior hypothalamic area of salt-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-S) but not in salt-resistant spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-R) or Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Further, acute microinjection of clonidine into the anterior hypothalamic area produced depressor responses that were augmented by high salt feeding in SHR-S but not in SHR-R or WKY rats. The current study tested the hypothesis that chronic infusion of clonidine into the anterior hypothalamic area prevents salt-sensitive hypertension in SHR-S. Beginning at age 7 weeks, immediately before initiation of 1% or 8% salt diets, clonidine (2 ng/min) or saline vehicle was infused into the anterior hypothalamic area or femoral vein of male SHR-S via osmotic minipump for 20 days. In SHR-S fed an 8% salt diet, chronic microinfusion of clonidine into the anterior hypothalamic area offset the hypertensive effect of the dietary salt supplementation and reduced the enhancing effects of dietary salt on left ventricular weight and plasma norepinephrine levels. In contrast, chronic microinfusion of clonidine into the anterior hypothalamic area did not significantly affect any of these measures in 1% salt-fed SHR-S. Intravenous infusion of clonidine at the rate used for the anterior hypothalamic area infusion did not alter any of these measures in 8% salt-fed SHR-S. 
Integration of conservative surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy for the treatment of early-stage, node-positive breast cancer: sequencing, timing, and outcome. The optimal means of combining breast-conserving surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with early-stage, node-positive breast cancer is not known. We reviewed the results in 295 patients treated at the Joint Center for Radiation Therapy and affiliated institutions from 1976 to 1985. All patients had positive axillary nodes on dissection, had no gross residual disease in the breast or axilla after surgery, and received breast irradiation (with or without nodal irradiation) and three or more cycles of a cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF)-based or doxorubicin-containing regimen. Median follow-up in patients without any failure was 78 months. Breast failure rates were assessed in relation to the sequencing of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The different sequences were not randomly assigned, and the characteristics of the sequence groups differed. The actuarial 5-year breast failure rate was 4% in 99 patients receiving radiotherapy before chemotherapy; 8% in 54 patients sequentially receiving some chemotherapy, then radiotherapy without concurrent chemotherapy, then further chemotherapy; and 6% in 116 patients receiving concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy. However, the failure rate was 41% in 26 patients who received all chemotherapy before radiotherapy. The crude incidences of local failure within 4 years of treatment in these groups were 3%, 2%, 4%, and 15%, respectively (P = .065 for all four groups not being the same). The actuarial 5-year local failure rate was 5% for 252 patients irradiated within 16 weeks after surgery compared with 35% for 34 patients irradiated more than 16 weeks after surgery. The 4-year crude incidences were 4% and 12% for the two groups, respectively (P = .06). These results suggest that delaying the initiation of radiotherapy may result in an increased likelihood of local failure. Formal randomized controlled trials will be needed to confirm these results and to improve the integration of these treatment modalities. 
Disk drusen and angioid streaks in pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Visual field loss secondary to optic disk drusen became evident before the development of angioid streaks in a patient with pseudoxanthoma elasticum. The incidence of optic disk drusen in cases of pseudoxanthoma elasticum is 20 to 50 times greater than that in the healthy population. We postulate that the abnormal aggregation of macromolecules with a high affinity for calcium (resulting in abnormalities in elastin in cases of pseudoxanthoma elasticum) also develops at the cribriform plate, disrupting axonal flow and leading to disk drusen formation. Pseudoxanthoma elasticum is associated with marked cardiovascular and gastrointestinal morbidity. Moreover, macular hemorrhage and precipitation of angioid streaks have frequently been noted after trauma. Prompt diagnosis of pseudoxanthoma elasticum will allow necessary prophylaxis and must be considered in patients with optic disk drusen. 
Prehospital hypertonic saline/dextran infusion for post-traumatic hypotension. The U.S.A. Multicenter Trial. The safety and efficacy of 7.5% sodium chloride in 6% dextran 70 (HSD) in posttraumatic hypotension was evaluated in Houston, Denver, and Milwaukee. Multicentered, blinded, prospective randomized studies were developed comparing 250 mL of HSD versus 250 mL of normal crystalloid solution administered before routine prehospital and emergency center resuscitation. During a 13-month period, 422 patients were enrolled, 211 of whom subsequently underwent operative procedures. Three hundred fifty-nine patients met criteria for efficacy analysis, 51% of whom were in the HSD group. Seventy-two per cent of all patients were victims of penetrating trauma. The mean injury severity score (19), Trauma Score plus Injury Severity Score (TRISS) probability of survival, revised trauma scores (5.9), age, ambulance times, preinfusion blood pressure, and etiology distribution were identical between groups. The total amount of fluid administered, white blood cell count, arterial blood gases, potassium, or bicarbonate also were identical between groups. The HSD group had an improved blood pressure (p = 0.024). Hematocrit, sodium chloride, and osmolality levels were significantly elevated in the Emergency Center. Although no difference in overall survival was demonstrated, the HSD group requiring surgery did have a better survival (p = 0.02), with some variance among centers. The HSD group had fewer complications that the standard treatment group (7 versus 24). A greater incidence of adult respiratory distress syndrome, renal failure, and coagulopathy occurred in the standard treatment group. No anaphylactoid nor Dextran-related coagulopathies occurred in the HSD group. Although this trial demonstrated trends supportive of HSD in hypotensive hemorrhagic shock patients requiring surgery, a larger sample size will be required to establish which subgroups of trauma patients might maximally benefit from the prehospital use of a small volume of hyperosmolar solution. This study demonstrates the safety of administering 250 mL 7.5% HDS to this group of patients. 
Management of intraoperative rupture of aneurysm without hypotension. A retrospective analysis was performed on all aneurysms operated on by one of us (SLG) from July 1980 to October 1988 to determine the factors that govern outcome from the intraoperative rupture of aneurysms. A total of 276 consecutive surgical procedures for 317 intracranial aneurysms produced 41 perioperative or intraoperative ruptures for analysis. Five cases were pre-exposure ruptures, 3 of which occurred during anesthetic induction. Four of these patients died, and 1 made a good recovery. Of the remaining 36 cases, outcome was analyzed in terms of the adjuncts used to deal with the intraoperative rupture. There was no statistically significant difference in outcome between those cases in which tamponade was used to control hemorrhage versus temporary clipping; however, those cases in which hypotension was used did less well than those in which it was not used. From October 1986 to October 1988, 108 operations for 132 aneurysms were performed without the use of induced hypotension. There were 16 intraoperative ruptures (14.8%). All 16 of these patients made a good recovery. In the group before 1986, of which there were 20 intraoperative ruptures (of 168 operations, 11.9%), 11 of those 20 patients suffered a permanent deficit or died. We conclude that hypotension may not be a necessary adjunct to the management of intraoperative rupture of aneurysms. 
High frequency of asymptomatic visual field defects in subjects with transient ischaemic attacks or minor strokes. The hypothesis that asymptomatic visual field defects can be found in patients with carotid transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) or minor strokes was tested. Twenty-two consecutive male patients with TIA and 18 patients with minor strokes from the carotid artery territory were examined by perimetry, cerebral computerised tomography and regional cerebral blood flow. Asymptomatic visual field defects were found in many TIA and minor stroke patients, 29% (5/17) and 57% (8/14), respectively (NS). Eighty-five per cent (11/13) of the scotomas were solely or predominantly located in the upper part of the visual field (P = 0.008 for absolute defects and P = 0.03 for relative defects). We conclude that both carotid territory TIA and minor stroke patients have a high frequency of asymptomatic visual field defects, predominantly located in the upper part of the visual field. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. When antacids aren't enough. Gastroesophageal reflux disease is a very common condition that is usually manifested by heartburn or regurgitation. Reflux esophagitis, caused by mucosal exposure to the backflow of caustic gastric contents, is primarily a result of lower esophageal sphincter dysfunction. Diagnostic workup varies but commonly includes esophagoscopy, 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring, and radiography of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Treatment, which progresses from simple life-style changes and antacids to histamine2 receptor antagonists to omeprazole (Prilosec) or surgery, is tailored to individual needs and is generally successful. 
Protruding atheromas in the thoracic aorta and systemic embolization. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether protruding atheromas in the thoracic aorta are a risk factor for systemic embolization. DESIGN: Case-control study. SETTING: A referral hospital. PATIENTS: A total of 122 patients with a history of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or peripheral emboli and an equal number of age- and sex-matched control patients. MEASUREMENTS: Evaluation using transesophageal echocardiography was done in case patients to detect protruding atheromas in the thoracic aorta and in control patients for cardiac indications other than emboli. MAIN RESULTS: Matched logistic regression showed that the presence of protruding atheromas was strongly related to the occurrence of embolic symptoms (odds ratio, 3.2; 95% Cl, 1.6 to 6.5; P less than 0.001). Furthermore, atheromas with mobile components were present only in case patients. When known risk factors for stroke (hypertension and diabetes) were added to the model, the presence of protruding atheromas remained an independent risk factor for embolic symptoms (odds ratio, 3.8). Hypertension was also independently associated with embolic symptoms (odds ratio, 2.7), but diabetes was not (odds ratio, 1.0). CONCLUSION: Protruding atheromas in the thoracic aorta can be detected by transesophageal echocardiography and should be considered as a cause of strokes, transient ischemic attacks, and peripheral emboli. 
The antinociceptive effects of anterior pretectal stimulation in tests using thermal, mechanical and chemical noxious stimuli. Four behavioural tests have been used to study the antinociceptive effects of electrical stimulation of the anterior pretectal nucleus (APtN) in the rat. The antinociceptive effects of stimulating this nucleus, which lies dorsally in the posterior diencephalon, have recently been studied extensively but always using briefly applied heat stimuli. It is reported here that APtN stimulation effectively inhibited responses to briefly applied noxious pressure and longer-lasting noxious chemical (formalin) stimuli. Although the tail-flick reflex to noxious heat was very potently depressed by APtN stimulation, responses to noxious heat in the hot-plate test were not. Three doses of morphine were also studied with each test and it was concluded that 15 sec of 35 microA r.m.s. current into the APtN was as effective as 3-5 mg/kg morphine s.c. in the rat. 
Constipation--some provocative thoughts [editorial] Constipation is a collective term with different definitions and manifestations. In the present communication, I hope to shed light on the pathogenesis, investigation, and treatment of these manifestations. The levator ani is the principal muscle of defecation; together with anorectal reflex actions, it conducts the act of defecation. Strainodynia is the term I give to excessive and exhaustive straining at defecation. Band strainodynia has normal stool character but elevated rectal neck pressure due to the presence of a fibrous band in the rectal neck. Diet strainodynia presents with lower stool weight and frequency than normal; the internal anal sphincter is fibrous. The stools in levator strainodynia have been repeatedly obstructed at defecation due to levator dysfunction. Idiopathic oligofecorrhea or infrequent defecation was studied in 146 patients. Three stages could be identified: the deep and the everted intersphincteric groove and the cone anus. Fecoflowmetry is introduced as a new method for investigating anorectal disorders. It measures the defecated volume per time unit, and provides quantitative as well as qualitative data concerning the act of defecation. Changes in the fecal flow parameters or curve configuration from normal point to a defecation disorder. 
Regional cerebral blood flow and cognitive function in patients with chronic liver disease. Subtle impairments of cognitive function may be an important cause of occupational and psychosocial morbidity in patients with chronic liver disease. Correlation of structural brain abnormalities with cognitive deficits has yielded inconsistent results. 10 patients with cirrhotic liver disease were compared with 10 age, education, and intelligence matched control subjects. Neuropsychological assessment revealed significant overall cognitive impairments in cirrhotic patients compared with controls (p = 0.02). Regional cerebral blood flow was measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPET or SPECT) and showed increased uptake of radiotracer in the right and left posterior parts of the basal ganglia and right occipital lobe, together with reduced uptake in the right anterior cingulate region. The degree of cognitive impairment was directly correlated with functional abnormalities in the basal ganglia and limbic cortex (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that impaired cognitive status may be associated with abnormalities of regional brain function in patients with chronic liver disease. Since these deficits are clinically inapparent, our findings have important implications for identification and management of patients with chronic liver disease. 
Thiamine deficiency in patients with congestive heart failure receiving long-term furosemide therapy: a pilot study. PURPOSE: To test the hypothesis that long-term furosemide therapy in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) is associated with clinically significant thiamine deficiency via urinary loss. DESIGN: (1) Biochemical evaluation of thiamine status in hospitalized patients with CHF treated with long-term furosemide and in age-matched control patients. (2) Uncontrolled trial of the effect of intravenous thiamine on cardiac performance in a subset of six patients with CHF. SETTING: General medical ward of a teaching community hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-three patients with chronic CHF receiving furosemide, and 16 age-matched control patients without heart failure and not taking diuretics. Daily furosemide doses were 80 to 240 mg, and duration of furosemide therapy was 3 to 14 months. Patients with identifiable causes of inadequate thiamine intake, absorption, or utilization or increased metabolic requirements were excluded. INTERVENTION: A 7-day course of intravenous thiamine, 100 mg twice daily, in six consenting patients with CHF. RESULTS: A high thiamine pyrophosphate effect (TPPE), indicating thiamine deficiency, was found in 21 of 23 furosemide-treated patients and in two of 16 controls (p less than 0.001). The mean (+/- SE) TPPE (normal: 0% to 15%) in furosemide-treated and control patients was 27.7 +/- 2.5% and 7.1 +/- 1.6%, respectively (p less than 0.001). Despite the high TPPE, the mean (+/- SE) urinary thiamine excretion in the furosemide-treated patients (n = 18) was inappropriately high (defined as greater than 130 micrograms/g creatinine), 410 +/- 95 micrograms/g creatinine, even in comparison with that in the controls (n = 14): 236 +/- 69 micrograms/g creatinine. In six patients treated with intravenous thiamine, the elevated TPPE decreased to normal, from a mean (+/- SE) of 27.0 +/- 3.8% to 4.5 +/- 1.3% (p less than 0.001), indicating normal thiamine utilization capacity. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased in four of five of these patients studied by echocardiography. CONCLUSIONS: These preliminary findings suggest that long-term furosemide therapy may be associated with clinically significant thiamine deficiency due to urinary loss and contribute to impaired cardiac performance in patients with CHF. This deficit may be prevented or corrected by appropriate thiamine supplements. 
Deregulation of a homeobox gene, HOX11, by the t(10;14) in T cell leukemia. Molecular cloning of the t(10;14)(q24;q11) recurrent breakpoint of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia has demonstrated a transcript for the candidate gene TCL3. Characterization of this gene from chromosome segment 10q24 revealed it to be a new homeobox, HOX11. The HOX11 homeodomain is most similar to that of the murine gene Hlx and possesses a markedly glycine-rich variable region and an acidic carboxyl terminus. HOX11, while expressed in liver, was not detected in normal thymus or T cells. This lineage-restricted homeobox gene is deregulated upon translocation into the T cell receptor locus where it may act as an oncogene. 
Five-year vascular audit from a district hospital. Vascular patients under the care of one surgeon over a 5-year period have been reviewed, from computer-based discharge records, with regard to in-hospital measures of outcome to determine whether or not surgery was being performed to an acceptable standard. Out of 466 procedures, 30 per cent of patients had at least one complication, 14 per cent had further surgery and 9 per cent died. Outcome was examined within the following treatment groups: aorto/iliac aneurysm, aortofemoral bypass, femoroproximal popliteal bypass, femorodistal popliteal bypass, femorocrural bypass, embolectomy and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Patients having below-knee bypass surgery were found to have an unacceptably high rate of complications, reoperations and amputations. An overall rate of reoperation for postoperative bleeding of 5 per cent was also considered to be high. With these exceptions, it was concluded that the surgery was being performed to an acceptable standard, but that comparative audit of this type remained difficult while there was a deficiency of national statistics against which the work of individual surgeons could be judged. 
Enhanced malignant transformation induced by expression of a distinct protein domain of ribonucleotide reductase large subunit from herpes simplex virus type 2. The 1.3-kilobase (kb) Pst I DNA fragment C (Pst I-C) of herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) morphological transforming region III (mtrIII; map unit 0.562-0.570) encodes part of the N-terminal half of the large subunit of ribonucleotide reductase (RR1; amino acid residues 71-502) and induces the neoplastic transformation of immortalized cell lines. To assess directly the role of these RR1 protein sequences in cell transformation, the Pst I-C fragment was cloned in an expression vector (p91023) containing an adenovirus-simian virus 40 promoter-enhancer to generate recombinant plasmid p9-C. Expression of a protein domain (approximately 65 kDa) was observed in p9-C-transfected COS-7 and Rat2 cells but not in those transfected with plasmid pHC-14 (Pst I-C in a promoterless vector). In Rat2 cells, p9-C induced highly transformed foci at an elevated frequency compared with that of pHC-14. Introduction of translation termination (TAG) condons within the RR1 coding sequence and within all three reading frames inactivated RR1 protein expression from p9-C and reduced its transforming activity to the level seen with the standard pHC-14 construct. Wild-type p9-C specified a protein kinase capable of autophosphorylation. Computer-assisted analysis further revealed significant similarity between regions of mtrIII-specific RR1 and amino acid patterns conserved within the proinsulin precursor family and DNA transposition proteins. These results identify a distinct domain of the HSV-2 RR1 protein involved in the induction of enhanced malignant transformation. In addition, the data indicate that the mtrIII DNA itself can induce basal-level transformation in the absence of protein expression. 
Immunohistochemical analysis of plasminogen activator expression in human colorectal carcinomas: correlation with CEA distribution and tumor cell kinetics. Fifty cases of colorectal adenocarcinoma were immunohistochemically examined for the relationship between distribution of plasminogen activators (PAs) and the degree of differentiation of cancer cells as reflected by carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expression as well as tumor cell kinetics. The A chain of urokinase-type PA (u-PA-A) was mainly observed in the apical portions of highly differentiated cancer cells. Increased expression and change in localization to the cytoplasm were found with progressive dedifferentiation. The numbers of DNA polymerase alpha (pol. alpha) positive cancer cells also increased in line with u-PA-A expression. The B chain of u-PA (u-PA-B), and the A and B chains of tissue-type PA (t-PA-A and -B) did not show similar alteration. The present findings suggest that the distribution of u-PA-A in colorectal carcinoma tissues, the degree of tumor differentiation, and the proliferation kinetics of cancer cells are closely related. 
Increased incidence of solid malignant tumors after bone marrow transplantation for severe aplastic anemia. From May 1980 to December 1989, 107 consecutive patients with non-constitutional severe aplastic anemia underwent bone marrow transplantation at our institution using cyclophosphamide and thoraco-abdominal irradiation as conditioning regimen. During the same period, 40 patients with Fanconi anemia were also grafted after a similar conditioning, giving a total series of 147 patients. With a mean follow-up of 64 months, four male patients developed a solid malignant tumor, a number that leads to an 8-year cumulative incidence rate of 22% (eg, relative risk to general population = 41, P less than .001). These results should be considered as a warning to clinicians who follow these successfully grafted long-term patients. 
Intraventricular blood flow during isovolumetric relaxation and diastole in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Forty patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were investigated by Doppler echocardiography for intraventricular blood flow abnormalities. None had a bundle branch block. The patients were recruited on the basis of the presence of at least one of four different types of abnormal left ventricular blood flow movements during systole, isovolumetric relaxation, and diastole (time after mitral valve opening). The abnormal blood flow patterns were composed of the following: (1) systolic left ventricular outflow and midventricular obstruction in 20 of 40 and in 6 of 40 patients, respectively; (2) retrograde isovolumetric relaxation flow (IVRFretro; mean velocity, 0.7 +/- 0.3 m/sec), that is, flow toward the apex of the left ventricle, in 28 of 40 patients; (3) antegrade isovolumetric relaxation flow (IVRFante; mean velocity, 1.6 +/- 1.0 m/sec), that is, flow toward the left ventricular outflow tract, in 3 of 40 patients; and (4) diastolic antegrade flow (DFante; mean velocity, 0.9 +/- 0.3 m/sec), that is, flow opposite to mitral inflow, in 10 of 40 patients. There were significantly fewer patients with asymmetric septal hypertrophy (group 1) than with apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (group 2) showing DFante (1/29 versus 9/11, p less than 0.01). IVRFretro and DFante revealed higher velocities in patients with marked left ventricular asymmetric hypertrophy than in those with mild hypertrophy. Thus, in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and especially in patients with marked asymmetric hypertrophy, there are different types of abnormal intraventricular blood flow movements during isovolumetric relaxation and disatole. This phenomenon is probably caused by asynchronous relaxation of the asymmetrically distributed, hypertrophied myocardium. DFante is more often observed in the apical cardiomyopathy than other forms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy probably attributable to apically localized left ventricular cavity obliteration. 
Polycystic ovarian syndrome: safety and effectiveness of stepwise and low-dose administration of purified follicle-stimulating hormone. OBJECTIVE: An attempt to induce ovulation with a single dominant follicle in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) patients. DESIGN: Comparing ultrasound and estradiol (E2) measurements during treatment with a low-dose protocol (using purified follicle-stimulating hormone, starting with 75 IU/d and increasing every 7 days by 37.5 IU/d) with those obtained following treatment with a conventional protocol using the same drug. SETTING: Specialist Reproductive Endocrine Unit. PATIENTS PARTICIPANTS: Eight PCOS patients of whom six had failed to respond adequately to the conventional protocol. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Rate of cancellation of cycles, number of leading follicles, and serum E2 concentration at the time of ovulation. RESULTS: Treatment with the low-dose protocol resulted in a significant reduction in the number of leading follicles (P less than 0.04), serum E2 concentrations (P less than 0.0002), and a higher rate of ovulation. As a result, five patients conceived compared with none in the conventional protocol. CONCLUSION: Using the low-dose protocol permitted induction of ovulation safely and successfully in a selected group of PCOS patients who were previously difficult to treat with the conventional ovulation induction protocol. 
Therapeutic advances in the prevention of hepatitis B: yeast-derived recombinant hepatitis B vaccines. Viral hepatitis is second to gonorrhea as the most commonly reported infectious disease in the US. Hepatitis B accounts for the majority of viral hepatitis cases. Fortunately, the disease is self-limiting and frequently resolves completely with minimal complications; however, a significant number of individuals may experience long-term sequelae. Research utilizing genetic engineering has led to the development of yeast-derived recombinant DNA (YDR) hepatitis vaccines--a significant advancement in the control and prevention of hepatitis B. The recombinant process allows production of unlimited quantities of vaccine at considerably lower cost and without the potential threat of blood-borne illness. Clinical trials in various high-risk populations have demonstrated the effectiveness and safety of YDR vaccines. However, questions regarding optimal regimen and the need for periodic revaccination remain unanswered. Persons at risk should be adequately vaccinated against hepatitis B. 
Application of Doppler color flow imaging to determine valve area in mitral stenosis. This study was undertaken to examine whether Doppler color flow imaging could accurately estimate the valve area in mitral stenosis. Doppler color flow assessments were performed in both an in vitro model and in 30 patients with mitral stenosis undergoing cardiac catheterization. In the experimental Doppler study using a circuit model, color jet width correlated well with actual orifice diameter (r = 0.99). In the clinical Doppler study, the mitral valve orifice was assumed to be elliptic and the mitral valve area was calculated from the following equation: (pi/4) (a x b), where a = color jet width at the mitral valve orifice in the apical long-axis view (short diameter) and b = the width in the 90 degrees rotated view (long diameter). Mitral valve area was also determined by two-dimensional echocardiography and the pressure half-time method, and the results for all three noninvasive methods were compared with those obtained at cardiac catheterization. By Doppler color flow imaging, mitral valve area could be determined in all patients and there was a significant correlation between the Doppler jet and catheterization estimates of mitral valve area (r = 0.93). Valve area determined by two-dimensional echocardiography correlated well with catheterization measurements in 26 patients (r = 0.84). However, the area could not be determined in 4 (13%) of the 30 patients because of technical problems. Although there was a fair correlation between the valve area determined by the pressure half-time method and catheterization (r = 0.79), this method tended to overestimate valve area in patients with aortic regurgitation. 
Hemangiopericytoma of the spleen. A splenic tumor is reported with the light microscopic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features of a hemangiopericytoma. The findings in this case are compared with the only previously reported splenic hemangiopericytoma. Differences in the clinical presentation and the gross appearance of the two cases are described, and similarities in the microscopic features are discussed. 
Changing rates of stroke in the province of Quebec, Canada: 1981-1988. Using more than 37,000 hospital discharges attributed to hemorrhagic or occlusive stroke in the province of Quebec, Canada, we analyzed trends in stroke incidence during the period 1981-1988. There were large and statistically significant (p less than 0.05) increases in the rates of hemorrhagic stroke over this period. Dramatic increases occurred among men in the rates of both intracerebral (International Classification of Diseases--Ninth Revision [ICD9] code 431) and intracranial (ICD9 code 432) hemorrhagic strokes (40-204% depending on age). In contrast, the rates of occlusion of the precerebral arteries (ICD9 code 433) declined in younger men and women but increased substantially (107%) in older men. Rates of occlusion of the cerebral arteries (ICD9 code 434) declined in men over the age of 50 years and in women aged 50-79 years. Despite the decline in the rate of occlusion of the cerebral arteries, the rate of hemorrhagic stroke appears to have increased. Changes in the hospitalization rates for hemorrhagic stroke were not accompanied by consistent decreases in the case-fatality rate. This finding tends to support the hypothesis of an actual increase in the hospitalization rate fo hemorrhagic stroke rather than an artifactually elevated rate due to enhanced diagnosis by computed tomography. 
Prevention of coronary heart disease in black adults. Development of strategies to prevent CHD in blacks is impeded by the virtual absence of clinical trials demonstrating the feasibility and effectiveness of interventions in blacks. The wholesale generalization that interventions effective (or ineffective) in whites are similarly effective in blacks may risk the employment of worthless or even dangerous interventions in blacks. Using available epidemiologic data, a number of risk factors may be more important in blacks than whites by virtue of higher prevalence, increased relative risk, or both. These may include hypertension, lipoprotein (a), smoking, diabetes, and obesity. Thus, health agencies might emphasize these risk factors when developing preventive programs targeted at black populations. Prevention programs may best seek to prevent the onset of risk factors found highly prevalent in black communities, rather than the costly and side-effect-prone interventions to treat risk factors once established. Thus, there is a role for community-based as well as a high-risk approaches. The community-based approaches should seek to work with organizations such as churches, which traditionally play strong roles in the black community. Physicians treating black patients should be aware of the potentially different roles played by risk factors, and treat aggressively those individuals identified to be at high risk. Risk factor management should be emphasized, rather than reduced, in patients with already established CHD. CHD has been clearly shown to be preventable; both blacks and whites should benefit from specific interventions aimed toward this worthy goal. 
High blood pressure due to alcohol. A rapidly reversible effect. The hypothesis that the action of alcohol on blood pressure is rapidly reversible and that its effect is therefore mainly due to very recent alcohol consumption was examined in this study. Five hundred and seventy-seven subjects were screened in an occupational survey. Alcohol consumption, documented with a 1-week retrospective diary was divided into two categories: "recent" and "previous" intake. Recent intake was defined as the amount consumed on days 1, 2, and 3 immediately preceding blood pressure measurement. Previous intake was defined as the amount consumed on days 4, 5, and 6 preceding blood pressure measurement. High recent alcohol intake significantly raised systolic and diastolic blood pressure in both men and women. Previous alcohol intake, however, did not appear to influence blood pressure. We conclude that the effect of alcohol on blood pressure appears to be predominantly due to alcohol consumed in the few days immediately preceding blood pressure measurement, with alcohol consumption before those few days exerting little effect on blood pressure. 
Progesterone receptor in hepatocellular carcinoma. Correlation with androgen and estrogen receptors. Progesterone receptors (PgR), estrogen receptors (ER), and androgen receptors (AR) were assayed consecutively for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that was surgically removed from 19 men and three women. The methods of receptor assay were the enzyme immunoassay (EIA) for PgR and the dextran-coated charcoal (DCC) technique for ER and AR. The patients ranged in age from 32 to 77 years (average, 60.3 years). No patients had received any specific anti-cancer therapy before tissue collection. All patients but one had underlying liver disease: cirrhosis in 13 and chronic hepatitis in eight. The positive rate of each receptor was 18% for PgR, 48% for ER, and 82% for AR. The titer was highest for AR, intermediate for ER, and lowest for PgR. The titers of PgR in four PgR-positive patients ranged from only 1.1 to 3.0 fmol/mg of protein. There was no relationship between PgR, ER, and AR in terms of positivity and titer. Also, other clinical and histopathologic data did not influence the positivity or concentration of these three sex hormone receptors. It can be concluded that no or little PgR exists in the cytosol of untreated HCC. 
Relation of left ventricular volume and function over one year after acute myocardial infarction to infarct size determined by technetium-99m sestamibi. Twenty patients with a first acute myocardial infarction (AMI) (15 anterior, 5 inferior) who received successful reperfusion therapy underwent tomographic imaging with technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi and radionuclide ventriculography at discharge, 6 weeks, and 1 year after AMI. Patency of the infarct-related artery after reperfusion (thrombolysis, 8 patients; coronary angioplasty, 12 patients) was confirmed by angiogrpahy in all patients. Tc-99m sestamibi perfusion defect at discharge (a measure of infarct size) was quantitated using previous methods and expressed as a percentage of the left ventricle (28 +/- 19%, range 0 to 59%). This perfusion defect size correlated closely with ejection fraction at discharge (r = -0.87), 6 weeks (r = -0.81) and at 1 year (r = -0.78, all p less than 0.0001). Perfusion defect size at discharge also correlated closely with end-systolic volume index at discharge (r = 0.71, p less than 0.0005), 6 weeks (r = 0.63, p less than 0.005) and at 1 year (r = 0.76, p less than 0.0001). Perfusion defect size at discharge did not correlate significantly with end-diastolic volume index at discharge or at 6 weeks, but did correlate at 1 year (r = 0.66, p less than 0.005). There was no significant group change in end-systolic or end-diastolic volume indexes from discharge to 1 year later, although 7 patients had definite individual changes in end-diastolic volume index (3 increased and 4 decreased). There was no relation between defect size and late changes in end-systolic volume index, but there was a weak correlation between defect size and late changes in end-diastolic volume index (r = 0.42, p = 0.07). 
Relationship of epidermal growth factor receptor detectability with the A, B, H blood group antigens. Emphasis on normal and neoplastic urothelium. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a glycoprotein that carries on its extracellular domains oligosaccharide chains, some of which are similar to blood group determinants. The author examined the expression of the EGFR using immunohistochemistry and three anti-EGFR antibodies with different fine specificities. These were applied to frozen sections from 120 tissue biopsies, including normal and neoplastic urothelium. The expression of blood group A, B, H determinants was also evaluated in the same tissues. Significant differences were noted, depending on the fine specificity of the anti-EGFR antibody, cellular differentiation, and the tissue donor's blood group. The most interesting finding was a reciprocal relationship between the reaction patterns obtained using antibodies with carbohydrate specificity and those with peptide specificity. These patterns were characteristic of cellular differentiation and suggested that the EGFR peptide determinants are detected in excess in immature and malignant cells that, however, appear deficient in oligosaccharide determinants. The combination of 'loss' of blood group antigen and an apparent overexpression of EGFR peptide determinants is indicative of invasive growth in transitional cell carcinomas. 
Acantholytic dyskeratotic epidermal naevus in a patient with guttate psoriasis on PUVA therapy. A 79-year-old male with psoriasis developed a zosteriform acantholytic dyskeratotic epidermal naevus during PUVA therapy. The eruption was successfully treated with etretinate 0.75 mg/kg/day and a subsequent course of PUVA with the affected area covered prevented a recurrence of the naevus. 
Susceptibility to and severity of rheumatoid arthritis in multicase families. Fifteen sibships, each having two or more siblings affected by classical or definite RA were studied. They comprised 31 patients with RA (all in remission) and 21 normal siblings. The total severity index of RA was assessed by clinical and radiological indices. For all the patients the following investigations were carried out: (1) HLA antigens determination for nine antigens at A locus and 15 at B locus and 6 at DR locus; (2) rheumatoid factor. We found: (1) RA disease is genetically controlled and the responsible genes are linked to the HLA system; (2) association between seropositivity and DR4 and DR4/B27 genotypes; (3) significant effect of the genotype DR4/B27 on the age of onset; (4) association between the increase in disease severity both clinical and radiological and DR4/X and DR4/B27 phenotypes. Thus the genetic control is probably composed of two types of genes: disease susceptibility genes and disease severity genes linked to DR4/X and DR4/B27 phenotypes. 
Elevation of plasma concentrations of haloperidol after the addition of fluoxetine. Fluoxetine (20 mg/day) was added for 7-10 days to stable doses of haloperidol given to eight psychotic patients. Mean plasma concentrations of haloperidol were elevated by 20% (p less than 0.05), but extrapyramidal side effects did not increase appreciably, indicating a relatively minor interaction between these agents. 
A comparison of treatment outcomes for black patients and white patients with metastatic breast cancer. The Piedmont Oncology Association experience. Prior studies have shown that black patients with breast cancer have poorer survival times compared with white patients even when adjusted for stage. Seventy-four black patients treated on six Piedmont Oncology Association (POA) protocols were compared with 74 randomly selected white patients treated with the same protocols to determine if race had any independent effect on response, time to progression, or survival time. Patients were evenly matched for pretreatment characteristics with the exception that white patients had a significantly higher percentage of bone metastases and significantly less skin involvement. Response rates and median time to progression were similar for black patients and white patients at 31% and 25%, and 9.3 and 9.1 months, respectively. Black patients had poorer survival times even when adjusting for covariables; median survival time was 14.3 months for black patients and 20.3 months for white patients (P less than 0.05). The reason for this survival difference in Stage IV patients is unclear, but is unlikely to be related to treatment. Additional research in this area will be necessary to resolve this issue. 
Lymphatic abnormalities in Alagille's syndrome. Chylous pleural effusions developed in a patient with Alagille's syndrome who had dysplasia of the lymphatic system. Lymphatic abnormalities are not a recognised feature of Alagille's syndrome. 
Juvenile progressive systemic sclerosis: report of five cases. Five cases of juvenile progressive systemic sclerosis (SSc) are reported (4 girls and 1 boy). The age of onset of the disease ranged from 4 to 13 years. The clinical features included Raynaud's phenomenon present in 4 of 5 cases; hyperpigmentation, skin tightening and contractures of the large joints were noted in all 5 cases. One patient initially diagnosed as having eosinophilic fasciitis developed SSc 3 months later. Another patient was diagnosed initially as having juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. There was one case of pulmonary fibrosis and another of mild restrictive lung disease. Two cases of esophageal and intestinal hypomotility were reported. Scleroderma nephropathy was absent in all 5 cases. 
Injury current and gradients of diastolic stimulation threshold, TQ potential, and extracellular potassium concentration during acute regional ischemia in the isolated perfused pig heart. During acute regional myocardial ischemia, a "current of injury" flows between the ischemic and the normal tissue. Its direction and magnitude change during the cardiac cycle. During diastole, the injury current flows intracellularly from the ischemic cells toward the normal cells and tends to depolarize the latter. The gain insight into the possible role of the injury current in arrhythmogenesis, we simultaneously determined diastolic stimulation threshold, [K+]o and TQ potential at multiple sites closely spaced across the cyanotic border in Langendorff-perfused pig hearts during the first 10 minutes after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The position of the electrodes relative to the border was validated by their response to 1) regional ischemia and 2) selective perfusion with a high-K+ perfusate of the left anterior descending coronary artery. A temporary decrease of diastolic stimulation threshold preceded a rapid increase in the central ischemic zone; a lasting reduction (by +/- 20%) without a concomitant increase of [K+]o was observed at seven sites (of 39 sites tested), five of which were less than 2 mm outside the electrophysiological border. Moreover, up to 4 mm inside the electrophysiological border, a similar lasting decrease of diastolic stimulation threshold was accompanied by a moderate increase of [K+]o. We conclude that 1) the injury current causes increased excitability in normal tissue close to the "ischemic" border and 2) increased excitability related to a moderately increased [K+]o may persist up to 10 minutes of ischemia at the ischemic side of the border. Both factors may facilitate the induction of life-threatening arrhythmias in acute myocardial ischemia. 
Colorectal cancer: current trends in initial clinical manifestations. Colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is a common cause of cancer morbidity and mortality in the United States. There continues to be controversy regarding the effectiveness and feasibility of various screening programs for CRC. To determine how cases of CRC are currently detected, we reviewed a series of 246 consecutive patients with well-documented pathologic staging and clinical presentation. Patients with low stage CRC (0 or A) had smaller tumors, were less likely to be anemic at presentation, and were more likely to have tumors located in the left side of the colon than patients with tumors at stage B or higher. Thirty-two of the 246 tumors were detected in asymptomatic patients through screening. These tumors were more likely to be of a lower stage than those in patients with active gastrointestinal symptoms. In our experience active screening programs detect a relatively small number of CRCs. A majority (66%) of CRCs are still detected from symptoms referable to the gastrointestinal tract. 
Aggressive juvenile fibromatosis involving the paranasal sinuses. Aggressive juvenile fibromatosis is a destructive, locally invasive process, with a propensity for local recurrence after inadequate excision. Although it does not metastasize, uncontrolled growth can eventually lead to death. The role for radiation and chemotherapy is controversial and these modalities are best reserved for advanced unresectable or recurrent lesions. The treatment of choice is en bloc surgical resection with wide margins. 
Cytoprotection and stress ulceration. The stomach possesses many mechanisms for protection against stress ulceration. The gastric microcirculation, prostaglandins, mucus secretion, epithelial cell renewal, and muscle tone are factors involved in gastric cytoprotection. Therapy is partially directed at augmenting these natural physiologic defense mechanisms to prevent and promote healing of stress ulceration. Drugs such as sucralfate, carbenoxalone, colloidal bismuth, and prostaglandins are used. Stress ulceration is an important cause of upper gastrointestinal tract hemorrhage in postoperative and critically ill patients in the intensive care unit setting. Preventive therapy includes neutralization of gastric acid by antacids, suppression of gastric acid secretion by H2-receptor blockers, administration of cytoprotective agents, and correction of the underlying stress state. Active bleeding requires accurate diagnosis by gastroscopy. Additional therapy may be necessary, including intra-arterial administration of vasopressin and occasionally surgery. Dieulafoy's lesion is an unusual stress-related cause for upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The area of mucosal injury is minute but underneath lies a large submucosal gastric artery. It can cause massive bleeding and is often missed at initial gastroscopy. The pathogenesis of Dieulafoy's lesion is complex and the mainstay of therapy has been surgical. Ligation of the vessel, wedge resection, or proximal gastric resection is performed. Therapeutic endoscopy with endoscopic cauterization or injection has changed the approach to this lesion. 
Conjugate eye deviation: side, site, and size of the hemispheric lesion. Conjugate eye deviation (CED) is a well-known sign that occurs rather frequently in stroke patients. To study the lateralizing and localizing value of this sign, we investigated prospectively 78 consecutive patients presenting with CED due to a hemispheric lesion. CED occurred more frequently after right-sided hemispheral damage (64%). The lesions in the right hemisphere were located predominantly in the subcortical (fronto-) parietal region and the internal capsule; the lesions in the left hemisphere were larger, covering the entire fronto-temporo-parietal area. In the majority of patients there was no direct involvement of the frontal eye fields on either side. The results indicate that a lesion at different sites within the circuit between the inferior parietal lobule and frontal eye fields, and their projections to the superior colliculus or paramedian pontine reticular formation, can be responsible for CED. The right-left asymmetry is probably related to cerebral asymmetry for directed spatial attention. 
Rest and exercise radionuclide angiography for diagnosis in chronic ischemic heart disease. Rest and exercise radionuclide angiography is frequently employed for the diagnosis of chest pain syndromes. Its value and limitations in this regard have been well studied, but proper utilization of the technique requires an understanding of five critical concepts: 1) Radionuclide angiography is superior to treadmill exercise testing and probably equivalent to thallium scintigraphy, although the published series did not use current methods. 2) The true specificity of radionuclide angiography is about 80%, intermediate between the early optimistic estimates and the later pessimistic ones. 3) The peak exercise ejection fraction is the preferred test parameter for diagnosis, although exercise hemodynamics, symptoms, and electrocardiographic changes should also be considered. 4) Although radionuclide angiography is clearly helpful for noninvasive diagnosis, significant numbers of patients will continue to fall in an uncertain category. 5) The proper application of the technique requires recognition of its limitations and careful attention to technical details. When properly applied, this modality can make an important contribution to clinical decision making. 
A randomized trial of ticarcillin and clavulanate versus gentamicin and clindamycin in patients with complicated appendicitis. Secondary bacterial peritonitis is usually a polymicrobial infection of facultative gram-negative aerobic and anaerobic organisms. Treatment consists of operation and broad-spectrum antibiotic administration. The antibiotic treatment of choice in these infections has been the combination of gentamicin and clindamycin. However, this combination can have toxic side effects and necessitates frequent monitoring of serum levels. Beta-lactam antibiotics provide broad-spectrum coverage and low toxicity, but can be inactivated by species of bacteria producing beta-lactamase enzymes. Clavulanic acid is a potent inhibitor of beta-lactamases and has been shown to extend the efficacy of ticarcillin to bacteria producing these enzymes. This combination was compared with gentamicin and clindamycin in 99 consecutive patients with complicated appendicitis. Eradication of identified pathogens was greater in the ticarcillin and clavulanate group (98 per cent) than in the gentamicin and clindamycin group (92 per cent), even for the subgroup of organisms producing beta-lactamases (97 versus 90 per cent eradication). Complications and clinical response were not significantly different between the two treatment groups. Ticarcillin and clavulanic acid is a safe and effective alternative to gentamicin and clindamycin in the treatment of secondary bacterial peritonitis and offers advantages in dosing simplicity and freedom from ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects. 
Acute hemodynamic effects of terazosin in hypertensive and normotensive patients. Terazosin, a selective alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist, was administered intravenously to 10 patients undergoing cardiac catheterization to determine its short-term hemodynamic effects. Hemodynamic measurements were performed before and 30 minutes after three doses of the drug: 1, 1, and 3 mg. One milligram of terazosin reduced the blood pressure (systolic/diastolic, mean) from a mean of 152.0/86.3, 110.7 mm Hg by -24.3/-9.4, -15.3 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). In the five patients who received 5 mg of the drug, blood pressure declined in a dose-dependent manner by -21.8/-3.8, -11.6 mm Hg after 1 mg, and by -35.8/-14.8, -22.8 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) after all 5 mg of the drug. The changes in blood pressure paralleled the terazosin-induced decrease in systemic resistance. Similar changes were recorded for pulmonary artery and capillary wedge pressures and pulmonary vascular resistance. The greatest hemodynamic response was noted with the first drug dose; succeeding doses had a progressively diminished incremental effect. Cardiac output, heart rate, and maximum left ventricular dp/dt demonstrated little change, whereas left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased after all three doses, reaching significance after 2 mg (-3.4 +/- 0.9 mm Hg, p less than 0.05), and left ventricular ejection fraction tended to increase (+5.6% +/- 2.4%, p less than 0.05 after 1 mg) and showed a dose dependence analogous to that of systemic resistance. Although not generally reaching statistical significance, indexes of aortic stiffness and compliance displayed a favorable effect. These data are consistent with terazosin's specific alpha 1-antagonism. Left ventricular performance is improved by afterload reduction, since terazosin demonstrated no direct effect on cardiac contractility. 
Use of combined exogenous gonadotropins and pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone in patients with polycystic ovarian disease [published erratum appears in Fertil Steril 1991 Jun;55(6):1213] We previously tested a combined regimen based on the administration of gonadotropin in the early follicular phase followed by pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) until complete follicular maturation in patients suffering from polycystic ovarian disease. Despite good clinical results, a high rate of premature luteinization was observed with this approach. We therefore evaluated in this study whether starting pulsatile GnRH therapy before gonadotropin administration might reduce premature luteinization. Eight women underwent induction of ovulation with both combined therapy and pure exogenous follicle-stimulating hormone alone using a crossover scheme. No premature luteinization and a single follicular growth were recorded with the modified combined regimen. Clinical results (8/8 versus 3/7 ovulatory cycles; 3/8 versus 1/7 pregnancies) favor the combined approach over gonadotropin alone. 
Preeclampsia as the great impostor. In contrast with a generation ago when preeclampsia was misdiagnosed as medical or surgical disease unrelated to pregnancy, today's diagnostic errors are those that consider surgical and medical problems as either pregnancy-induced hypertension or as the hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome. Eleven case histories are presented of significant medical or surgical problems that were initially diagnosed as hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome or pregnancy-induced hypertension. The incorrect diagnosis of medical-surgical cases during pregnancy often meant that appropriate therapy was delayed and that the rate of iatrogenic prematurity was increased. 
Fulminant hepatic failure due to acute hepatitis B and delta co-infection: probable bloodborne transmission associated with a spring-loaded fingerstick device. Fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) due to acute hepatitis B and delta co-infection occurred in a 74-yr-old female, who eventually died. There was no clear-cut epidemiology other than probable bloodborne transmission from a contaminated spring-loaded fingerstick device used for glucose determination, in an outpatient facility. This unusual mode of transmission reiterates the importance of using sterile cleansing and disposal procedures anytime there is a possibility of contamination with blood. 
Medullary catecholaminergic neurons in the normal human brain and in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is thought to cause degeneration of melanin-pigmented catecholaminergic neurons throughout the brainstem, but little quantitative information is available on the fate of catecholaminergic neurons associated with the dorsal vagal complex or medullary reticular formation. We therefore examined these neurons in the normal human medulla and in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease, using both a melanin stain and immunohistochemical methods with an antiserum against tyrosine hydroxylase. The greatest numbers of catecholaminergic neurons in the ventrolateral reticular formation (A1/C1 group) were located in the far rostral medulla, whereas the largest populations of catecholaminergic cells in the dorsal vagal complex (A2/C2 group) were found at the level of the area postrema. No loss of cells was observed in the A1/C1 group in the parkinsonian brains. In contrast, the A2/C2 group showed moderate loss of neurons, most marked at the level of the area postrema. This difference was entirely due to the loss of neurons in the medial component of the A2 group, a population that normally is only lightly pigmented, while the heavily pigmented neurons in the ventral and intermediate components of the A2 complex were unaffected. Parkinson's disease causes degeneration only of selected populations of medullary catecholaminergic neurons, without apparent relationship to the extent of melanin pigmentation. 
Prevalence of renal artery stenosis in diabetes mellitus--an autopsy study. The prevalence of renal artery stenosis in diabetic patients is unknown, since no noninvasive and valid screening procedures are available. We have therefore evaluated 5194 consecutive autopsy protocols from patients who died between 1980 and 1988. In addition, all available clinical records for patients with renal artery stenosis (RAS) and a random sample were evaluated. It was found that 73% of patients with RAS were hypertensive, and 53% had diabetes, all but one being Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent). Renal artery stenosis was present in 225 (4.3%) of all patients [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 3.8-4.9], and was not reported in the patients' clinical records in 93% of cases. RAS was present in 8.3% of all diabetic patients (95% CI, 6.8-9.8%), the odds ratio being 3.5 (95% CI, 2.6-4.6). The frequency of renal artery stenosis in diabetic patients with hypertension was 10.1%. Bilateral renal artery stenosis was found in 43% of patients with RAS and diabetes, and in 30% of non-diabetic patients with RAS (P = 0.059). Our results indicate that renal artery stenosis often goes undetected before autopsy. The presence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus increases the risk of renal artery stenosis. The risk of bilateral renal artery stenosis is greater in diabetic patients. These results may be of significance with regard to the diagnostic evaluation and choice of antihypertensive treatment in hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients. 
Granulomatous angiitis of the spinal cord associated with Hodgkin's disease. A 28-year-old man had a 5-month history of focal and generalized neurologic symptoms culminating in a thoracic myelopathy. Evaluation revealed granulomatous angiitis of the spinal cord in association with occult nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease. In previous reports, manifestations indicative of intracranial involvement have dominated the clinical presentation of granulomatous angiitis associated with Hodgkin's disease. Successful therapy for Hodgkin's disease may result in marked improvement of associated granulomatous angiitis, whereas the lack or failure of therapy results in a uniformly fatal outcome. Definitive antemortem diagnosis of granulomatous angiitis requires a biopsy of involved tissue. The cause of granulomatous angiitis, as well as the nature of its association with Hodgkin's disease, remains unexplained. 
Modifications of the nasal cycle in patients with hypothalamic disorders: Kallmann's syndrome. The nasal cycle is a phenomenon characterized by cyclic changes in the airflow resistance of each nasal fossa from congestion or constriction of the nasal erectile tissue. This phenomenon is caused by alterations in the influence exerted by the autonomic nervous system and is believed to be regulated by a hypothalamic center. In order to verify this hypothesis on the hypothalamic regulation of the nasal cycle, the authors studied a group of subjects with Kallmann's syndrome. This disorder is characterized by coexisting hypothalamic hypogonadism and hyposmia or anosmia due to hypothalamic and olfactory center hypoplasia. An anomalous nasal cycle was found in all the subjects with Kallmann's syndrome. This disorder might be related to hypothalamus atrophy. 
Zinc deficiency. A public health problem? Zinc deficiency occurs in individuals and populations whose diets are low in sources of readily bioavailable zinc such as red meat, and high in unrefined cereals that are rich in phytate and dietary fibers. Dietary zinc deficiency was described nearly three decades ago among the poor of the Middle East. It is now known to occur in children and adolescents from widely diverse areas including Egypt, Iran, Turkey, China, Yugoslavia, Canada, and the United States; and among pregnant women from Iran, Turkey, the United Kingdom, Australia, and the United States. Major manifestations include retarded growth and development and an increased incidence of pregnancy complications. Other manifestations may include suppressed immunity, poor healing, dermatitis, and impairments in neuropsychological functions. Precise information as to the numbers of people affected by dietary zinc deficiency is not available. Even so the nature of diets associated with zinc deficiency suggests that mild deficiency is common in some populations. 
Effects of laser-generated tissue debris on aggregation of human platelets. This study examined the effects of laser-generated tissue debris from thrombus, atheroma, and normal aorta on platelet aggregation. Debris supernatant and suspension from lased thrombus induced dose-related aggregation, maximal at 48 +/- 12% and 65 +/- 2%, respectively. Debris suspension from normal aorta induced maximal aggregation of 35 +/- 12%, but the debris from atheromatous aorta surprisingly had no effect on platelet aggregation. The debris particle count was in the range of 10(10) to 10(12) per liter. Aspirin, 0.2 and 2.0 mmol/L, only weakly inhibited the debris-induced aggregation, and heparin up to 10 U/ml was ineffective. However, iloprost reduced aggregation to 40 +/- 11% of control at 0.3 ng/ml, and totally abolished it at 3 ng/ml. Soluble and particulate laser-generated debris from vascular tissue and thrombus may cause platelet aggregation in vitro. This may have implications for laser coronary angioplasty. 
Relation between ST segment shifts during ischemia and thrombin activity in patients with unstable angina. This study was designed to determine in patients with unstable angina whether specific electrocardiographic abnormalities associated with ischemia, the presence of coronary lesions consistent with thrombosis on angiography or the presence of recurrent ischemia reflects increases in thrombin activity as manifested by increased plasma concentrations of fibrinopeptide A. The concentration of fibrinopeptide A in plasma was increased to 6.7 +/- 3.1 nM for the group as a whole (n = 29). Increases were greater in the 17 patients who exhibited reversible ST segment shifts (10.2 +/- 5.2 nM) than in the 12 patients exhibiting reversible T wave abnormalities alone (1.6 +/- 0.2 nM) (p less than 0.01). Nine of the 17 patients with reversible ST segment shifts who underwent coronary angiography had lesions with morphologic characteristics consistent with atherosclerotic plaque complicated by thrombosis compared with only 2 of 9 patients with T wave changes only (p less than 0.05). Plasma concentrations of fibrinopeptide A were markedly elevated in 7 of the 11 patients in whom complex lesions were noted on angiographic examination. Thus, the occurrence of reversible ST segment shifts identifies a group of patients with unstable angina in whom ongoing thrombosis is likely and who may be particularly likely to benefit from antithrombotic therapy. 
Use of intrathecally administered morphine in the treatment of postoperative pain after lumbar spinal surgery: a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Improved control of postoperative pain is now known to reduce the incidence of morbidity. Although spinally administered narcotics have found a clear role in chest and abdominal surgery, their role in lumbar spinal surgery is debated. We conducted a prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of intrathecally administered morphine sulfate after lumbar spinal surgery in 56 patients. Patients received 0, 0.125, 0.25, or 0.5 mg of intrathecally administered morphine during extradural lumbar spinal operations, and the effects on postoperative analog pain scores, narcotic consumption, complications, and length of hospitalization were assessed. As compared with systemic narcotic administration, intrathecally administered morphine provided superior analgesia in a dose-dependent fashion without an increase in narcotic side effects. Consumption of parenteral narcotics on the first postoperative day and over the total hospitalization period decreased in correlation with increasing doses of intrathecally administered morphine. Mean length of hospitalization was significantly decreased, as compared with the control group, in patients receiving 0.25 or 0.5 mg of intrathecally administered morphine. When proper precautions are observed, intrathecally administered morphine can improve the postoperative care of patients undergoing lumbar spinal surgery. 
Common complaints with cardiac implications in children. Chest pain, palpitations, and dizziness are not infrequent complaints in the office of a primary care physician. Historical events and physical findings can lead to a more accurate determination of cardiac causes of these symptoms. Electrocardiogram and chest radiographs are two additional tests most often helpful in determining cardiac causes of symptoms. 
The influence of CLS 2210 on the course of myocardial infarction: a pilot study in man. To assess the effect of CLS 2210 (a new formulation of calcium dobesilate) on the evolution of acute myocardial infarction, 100 patients presenting their first infarct were distributed, according to their sequential admissions to the hospital, into CLS 2210-treated group (50 patients) or a comparison group (50 patients not receiving CLS 2210). The two groups were similar in age, sex, predisposing factors, and site of infarction. Intravenous infusion of CLS 2210 was begun within six hours of onset of chest pain and continued for seventy-two hours. Thereafter, it was given, as oral capsules, in a dose of 1,000 mg every eight hours throughout the hospitalization. Before and during the trial, blood samples were drawn for the measurements of serum concentrations of creatine kinase (CK), and twelve-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) were obtained serially in each patient. All objective data were analyzed on a coded basis without reference to the treatment. In the comparison group, thirty-six to forty-eight hours was required for CK to fall to 50% of the baseline value, whereas in the CLS 2210-treated group it reached 50% of the baseline in eighteen to twenty-four hours. For each infarction site, a statistically significant fall was reached earlier in the CLS 2210 group. CK, the ECG index, and the sum of the ST segments showed earlier and more rapid improvement in the CLS 2210 group than in the comparison group. The consumption of narcotic analgesic agents and nitroglycerin was substantially less in the CLS 2210 group than in the comparison group. 
Liver tumors in cirrhosis: experimental study with SPIO-enhanced MR imaging. The influence of cirrhosis on superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the liver was studied in 31 rats. Experimental models included carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis and liver engrafting of rhabdomyosarcoma S4T cells. Hepatic uptake of SPIO measured with relaxometry decreased dramatically with histologic grade, while splenic uptake increased; the same results were achieved by calculating K values. Imaging of 13 tumorous cirrhotic rats confirmed these results by showing a muted decrease in liver signal intensity on spin-echo images after injection of SPIO. Nevertheless, all intrahepatic tumors could be visualized, as confirmed by postmortem examination. On gradient-echo images, postinjection contrast between the tumor and the liver was not affected by cirrhosis. Thus, despite strong impairment of hepatic uptake in cirrhosis, the diagnostic efficacy of MR imaging with SPIO did not seem to be significantly affected. 
Oxygen free radicals and congestive heart failure. Plasma lipid peroxides (malondialdehyde) and thiols were measured in 45 patients with congestive heart failure and 45 controls. Malondialdehyde concentrations were significantly higher in the patients with congestive heart failure (median 9.0 nmol/ml interquartile range (IQR) 7.9-10.2) than in the controls (median 7.7 nmol/ml (IQR 6.9-9.2)). Plasma thiols were significantly lower in congestive heart failure (median 420 mumol/l (IQR 379-480)) than in the controls (median 463 mumol/l (IQR 445-525)). There was a significant but weak negative correlation between malondialdehyde and left ventricular ejection fraction (r = -0.35) and a positive correlation between plasma thiols and left ventricular ejection fraction (r = 0.39). This study provides clinical support for experimental data indicating that free radicals may be important in heart failure. It also suggests that the degree of free radical production may be linked to the severity of the disease. 
The effects of activin on follicle-stimulating hormone secretion and biosynthesis in human glycoprotein hormone-producing pituitary adenomas. The effects of activin on pituitary FSH biosynthesis have been previously characterized using primary rat pituitary cultures; however, little is known of the effects of activin on FSH biosynthesis and secretion in human pituitary tissue. Production of intact glycoprotein hormones and free subunits is increasingly recognized in pituitary tumors; however, the regulation of gonadotropins in such tumors has not been addressed. We have investigated the effects of human recombinant activin on glycoprotein hormone biosynthesis and secretion in primary cultures of 12 human glycoprotein hormone-producing pituitary adenomas and compared this with the effects of activin in normal rat anterior pituitary cells. In 33% of the human pituitary tumors studied, significant (P less than 0.05) increases in FSH beta secretion occurred in response to incubation with 20 ng/mL activin for 24 h (19-287% stimulation), without changes in the production of intact FSH. A Northern analysis performed on cells derived from one tumor indicated that FSH beta mRNA levels increased 350% after activin treatments; however, FSH secretion did not parallel the mRNA changes. None of the human glycoprotein hormone-producing tumors significantly increased FSH secretion in response to activin. To validate the biological activity of recombinant human activin-A and to confirm time and dose conditions for the human tumor cultures, we also examined its ability to stimulate FSH production in rat pituitary cultures. Activin (20 ng/mL) added to the culture medium significantly increased FSH secretion and steady state levels of FSH beta mRNA after 24 h. These data indicate that some glycoprotein hormone-producing pituitary tumors treated with purified activin have discordant responses of intact gonadotropins and free subunit responses. In contrast to responses in normal rat gonadotrophs, FSH beta biosynthetic pathways may be uncoupled from intact FSH secretion in a subset of glycoprotein hormone-producing pituitary adenomas. 
Factors influencing postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease in childhood. We have reviewed the outcome of all patients undergoing their first intestinal resection for Crohn's disease at this hospital between 1970 and 1987. Recurrence rates, defined by recurrent intestinal symptoms and radiological confirmation of mucosal disease, were calculated using survival analysis. Age, sex, anatomical location of disease, indication for surgery, preoperative duration of symptomatic disease, use of preoperative bowel rest, and pathological features of the resected bowel were analysed individually and jointly as potential risk factors influencing postoperative recurrence of disease. Eighty two patients (age, mean (SD) 14.8 (2.5) years) underwent intestinal resection and were followed postoperatively for a minimum of one year (mean 5.3 (3.3) years). Anatomical location of disease, indication for surgery, and preoperative duration of symptomatic disease were the only factors that significantly influenced the duration of the recurrence free interval. Patients with diffuse ileocolonic inflammation experienced earlier recurrence (50% at one year) than children with predominantly small bowel disease (50% recurrence at five years, p less than 0.0001). Failure of medical therapy independent of disease location as the sole indication for surgery was associated with an earlier relapse than when surgery was performed for a specific intestinal complication such as abscess or obstruction (p less than 0.003). Patients undergoing resection within one year of onset of symptoms experienced delayed recrudescence of active disease (30% recurrence by eight years) compared with patients whose preoperative duration of symptomatic disease was longer (50% recurrence by four years when preoperative duration of disease was one to four years and 50% by three years when disease had been present greater than four years preoperatively, p = 0.03). 
Testing for Helicobacter pylori in the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Infection with Helicobacter pylori is associated with almost all cases of peptic ulcer. Using Bayes' formula, we evaluated whether testing for H. pylori in a patient with proven ulcer might help in the work-up of a Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZE). A negative test for H. pylori in a patient with duodenal ulcer would raise a pretest probability for ZE of 10-20% to a posttest range of 61-78%. The information provided by a negative test result with respect to ZE is greater in younger than in older ulcer patients. It is also greater in duodenal than gastric ulcer. We conclude that testing for H. pylori in ulcer patients, in whom ZE constitutes a possible differential diagnosis, adds substantially to the decision making at relatively low cost and little additional risk to the patient. 
Rectal potential differences in irritable bowel syndrome and in inflammatory bowel diseases in man. We have studied rectal potential difference (pd) in 200 subjects: 30 healthy volunteers or control patients, 46 patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and painless diarrhoea (group I), 60 IBS patients without diarrhoea (group II) and 64 patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with (group III, n = 41) or without (group IV, n = 23) rectal involvement. Pd measurement used a rectal perfused probe and a subcutaneous needle both connected, via agar-KCl bridges, to calomel electrodes and a millivoltmeter. Statistical analysis used Student's t-test for paired and unpaired data and Mann-Whitney U-test as appropriate. Mean rectal pd values were, respectively -43.5 +/- 8.7 mV in control group, -32.9 +/- 10.2 mV in IBS-group I patients (P less than 0.001), -41.3 +/- 12 mV in IBS-group II patients (NS), -21.4 +/- 14.1 mV in IBD patients with rectal involvement (P less than 0.001), and -45.1 +/- 14.3 mV in IBD-group IV patients (NS). A histological examination was performed in 36 IBS patients; mean rectal pd was significantly decreased in patients showing abnormal patterns (n = 27, pd = -31.8 +/- 9 mV) compared to patients with normal mucosa (n = 9, pd = -41.1 +/- 6.5 mV; P less than 0.01). These results show that: (1) potential difference is significantly decreased in patients with ulcerative and rectal involvement; (2) in patients with Crohn's disease, normal rectal pd values do not assess the appearance of colonic mucosa above; (3) patients with IBS and diarrhoea also present a significant diminution in mean rectal pd. Although the mechanisms involved remain unclear, rectal pd measurement appears to be an objective test for intestinal mucosae weakness in functional or inflammatory diseases of the large intestine and rectum. 
Colonoscopic surveillance after polypectomy: considerations of cost effectiveness. OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of the current recommendation that persons who have had an adenomatous colon polyp removed have periodic colonoscopic surveillance at fixed and regular intervals. DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using data from the medical literature in a simulation model to estimate the costs of and the risk for perforation associated with periodic colonoscopic surveillance for a 50-year-old man followed for 30 years. MAIN RESULTS: A program of colonoscopy every 3 years would incur cumulatively a 1.4% risk for colon perforation, a 0.11% risk for perforation-related death, and direct physician costs of $2071 for colonoscopy (discounted at 5%). If a 50-year-old man's cumulative remaining risk for death from cancer is 2.5% after the removal of a single small adenoma and if effectiveness of colonoscopic surveillance every 3 years is 100%, then one death from cancer could be prevented by doing 283 colonoscopies, incurring 0.6 perforations, 0.04 perforation-related deaths, and direct physician costs of $82,000. If surveillance were 50% effective and the cumulative remaining risk for death from cancer were 1.25%--a plausible scenario--1131 colonoscopies would be required to prevent one death from cancer, incurring 2.3 perforations, 0.17 perforation-related deaths, and physician costs of $331,000. CONCLUSIONS: The cost effectiveness of colonoscopic surveillance is very sensitive to estimates of the cumulative remaining risk for death from cancer after polypectomy as well as to surveillance efficacy. For persons whose remaining risk for death from cancer may be low, such as persons with a single small adenoma, recommendations for colonoscopic surveillance at fixed and regular intervals may be excessively costly. 
Dehydration syndromes. Oral rehydration and fluid replacement. Dehydration caused by diarrhea remains a major source of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Dehydration is a common clinical presentation seen by most physicians. Clinical diagnosis depends on the recognition of signs and symptoms as well as change in weight. Laboratory studies are helpful in categorizing the dehydration as isotonic, hyponatremic, or hypernatremic, which is necessary to plan appropriate therapy. In many situations, oral rehydration therapy is possible and desirable. Intravenous rehydration remains the standard of care for children with severe dehydration and shock. 
Evaluation of the painful shoulder. A prospective comparison of magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomographic arthrography, ultrasonography, and operative findings. Twenty-one patients who had had pain in the shoulder for more than three months were evaluated with ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by computerized tomographic arthrography. The results of the imaging studies were then compared with the operative findings. Magnetic resonance imaging was found to be the most useful modality for establishment of the etiology of pain in the shoulder due to disease of the rotator cuff, instability associated with abnormality of the glenoid labrum, subacromial impingement, stenosis of the coracoacromial arch, and osteoarthrosis of either the glenohumeral or the acromioclavicular joint. The accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging was found to depend on both the operator and the technique and was decreased in extremely obese patients, due to difficulties in positioning, and in patients who had had a previous operation. Magnetic resonance imaging was more accurate than either computerized tomographic arthrography or ultrasonography in identifying partial-thickness tears (intrasubstance changes in the rotator cuff). Magnetic resonance imaging provided the same level of accuracy as computerized tomographic arthrography in the detection of abnormalities of the glenoid labrum. 
Single center experience of the effect of delayed function on outcome in retransplant recipients of cadaveric renal allografts. The incidence of DRF in the regraft study group was most commonly seen in patients with a historic high level of HLA sensitization. Primary NF was an immune mediated event seen in 63% of third regrafts. Delayed use of CyA with ALG induction coverage provides good graft survival with either double or triple maintenance therapy. Stricter patient selection for third transplants and aggressive clinical monitoring of the regrafted patient has provided a 1-year actuarial graft survival result of 88% at our transplant center. 
Uterine incarceration during the third trimester: a rare complication of pregnancy. Uterine incarceration that manifests during the third trimester or at term is a serious and rare complication of pregnancy. The pregnant patient may complain of low-abdominal pain, low-back pain, urinary retention, and constipation, or the patient may be asymptomatic until labor begins. The diagnosis is difficult, and physical findings can be misleading. Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging can be helpful if the anteriorly displaced cervix is clearly depicted. If incarceration of the retroverted uterus persists until term, a cesarean section is necessary. Recurrent uterine incarceration has been reported; therefore, the patient should be monitored closely during subsequent pregnancies. Herein we describe three cases of uterine incarceration during the third trimester and review the literature with respect to incidence, differential diagnosis, management, and complications of this condition. 
Pathologic review of consecutive radical prostatectomy specimens. Nerve sparing versus nonnerve sparing. Retrospective pathologic analysis was conducted of specimens from 88 radical retropubic prostatectomy operations performed between 1982 and 1987 inclusive. The median age of patients was sixty years (range, 46 to 73 years). Of the 88 radical prostatectomies performed, 51 were nerve-sparing (40 bilateral) and 37 were nonnerve-sparing (11 unilateral) procedures. Preoperative clinical staging was similar in both groups. Thirty-five of 37 patients (95%) in nonnerve-staging group and 51 of 51 patients (100%) in nerve-sparing group had clinical Stage B2 disease or less. Pathologic staging in both groups was also similar. In 26 of 37 patients (70%) in nonnerve-sparing group and in 35 of 51 patients (69%) in nerve-sparing group, disease remained localized to the prostate. Both groups were analyzed retrospectively to determine whether or not the incidences of microinvasion of capsule and of extraprostatic disease differed. Review of the apical and lateral margins of the specimens revealed no statistically significant difference in either the degree of microinvasion of capsule or the incidence of extraprostatic disease between the groups. 
Cessation of driving and unsafe motor vehicle operation by dementia patients. We surveyed 522 consecutive patients from a dementia clinic to assess duration of driving after disease onset and instances of unsafe motor vehicle operation in the preceding 6 months. Among the 333 patients licensed to drive at the onset of dementia, the median duration of driving after onset was 28.6 months. Patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease drove significantly longer than those with other dementia syndromes. Of the 93 patients still driving at the time of the survey, approximately one third were reported to have had at least one form of unsafe motor vehicle operation in the past 6 months, including 21 patients with motor vehicle accidents. Motor vehicle accidents were associated with use of prescription medications with sedative properties and with lower subjective ratings of the patient's driving ability by the informant. 
Inguinal herniorrhaphy. Reduced morbidity by service standardization. To ascertain if service specialization and procedure standardization would improve the complication rate of inguinal herniorrhaphy, the results of all inguinal herniorrhaphies performed during a 3-year period by board-certified general surgeons who also performed a variety of other procedures common to the field of general surgery, assisted by general surgical residents (group B, 390 patients), were compared in the same institution with the results of inguinal herniorrhaphy when performed during 3 years under protocol by a Hernia Service directed by a senior faculty member assisted by junior surgical residents (group C, 442 patients). Group B patients had essentially no follow-up until they reappeared for care at the Hernia Service, whereas patients in group C achieved an 82% 7-year follow-up. The infection and recurrence rates of group C patients (0.45% and 0.9%, respectively) were significantly better than those of group B patients (5.9% and 4.6%, respectively). These results suggest that in our institution, the concentration of patients with hernias in a hernia service, manned by a specialized surgeon, produced better short- and long-term results than those obtained by general surgeons not dedicated to the field of hernia repair. Further studies will be necessary to confirm these findings. 
Primary cutaneous adenoid cystic carcinoma: a case report and review of the literature. A case of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the ear in a 67-year-old man is presented along with a review of the literature. Adenoid cystic carcinoma most commonly arises in the salivary glands. Primary cutaneous adenoid cystic carcinoma occurs principally in the scalp and chest. Perineural invasion is seen in at least half the cases and is associated with an increased recurrence rate. Treatment consists of wide local resection with tumor-free margins. Just over half the patients will develop recurrence, with long tumor-free intervals necessitating long-term follow-up. Distant metastases are rarely seen. Radiation therapy is not curative and should be reserved for palliation. 
Hepatosplenic candidiasis: successful treatment with fluconazole. PURPOSE: To determine if fluconazole is effective treatment for hepatosplenic candidiasis that has not resolved with amphotericin B and flucytosine treatment. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six patients (ages 3 to 44) with acute leukemia and hepatosplenic candidiasis who did not respond to prior antifungal therapy were treated with fluconazole. RESULTS: All six patients had fever and three had nausea and vomiting; computed tomographic (CT) scan showed lucencies in the liver in six, lucencies in the spleen in five, and lucencies in the kidneys in three. Prior therapy with 1.6 to 4 g of amphotericin B in the five adults and 526 mg of amphotericin B in the child (with the addition of flucytosine in four) failed to improve clinical symptoms or lucencies in the liver, spleen, and kidneys seen on CT scan. Fluconazole was given at a dose of 200 to 400 mg daily (70 to 100 mg in the child) for 2 to 14 months. All patients had resolution of fever and other symptoms in 2 to 8 weeks. Improvement of the lesions noted on CT scan was seen in 4 to 8 weeks in all patients. Total resolution of lesions noted on CT scan occurred by 4 weeks in two patients, but took 4 to 5 months for three patients and 13 months for one patient. Three patients had relapse of their acute leukemia and two died, presumably cured of their candidiasis. Two patients underwent successful bone marrow transplantation without relapse of their candidiasis. CONCLUSION: Fluconazole appears to be useful in the treatment of hepatosplenic candidiasis that has not resolved with amphotericin B and flucytosine therapy. 
Usefulness of noninvasive diagnostic tools for diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism in patients with a normal chest radiograph. The value of bedside examination and noninvasive tests in the diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism (PE) among patients with a normal chest radiograph was investigated. Normal chest radiographs were present in 20 of 260 patients (8%) with acute PE and in 113 of 642 (18%) with suspected acute PE, in whom the diagnosis was excluded. A partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood less than or equal to 70 mm Hg in a dyspneic patient with a normal chest radiograph was more often seen among patients with PE (9 of 17, 53%) than among patients in whom PE was excluded (18 of 93, 19%; p less than 0.01). However, no combinations of blood gases, signs and symptoms were strictly diagnostic. High probability ventilation/perfusion scans among patients with a normal chest radiograph were indicative of PE in only 6 of 9 patients (67%). Among patients with low-probability ventilation/perfusion scans, 8 of 47 (17%) had PE. This study showed that the combination of dyspnea and hypoxia in a patient with a normal chest radiograph is a useful clue to the diagnosis of PE. Although intuition suggested that ventilation/perfusion scans would yield better results in patients with a normal chest radiograph, the ability to diagnose PE by ventilation/perfusion scans in this subset of patients was not enhanced, except by a reduction of the percentage of patients with intermediate probability scans. 
Pulmonary hemorrhage and necrotizing glomerulonephritis without glomerular immune deposits: report of two cases. Two children with a syndrome of pulmonary hemorrhage and necrotizing, nonimmune glomerulonephritis are reported. A boy and girl, both of East Indian descent, developed recurrent lung infiltrates from the age of 3 months and 2 years, respectively. Both subsequently presented with pulmonary hemorrhage, fever, arthritis, hematuria, and nephrotic range proteinuria at 1.5 and 6 years of age, respectively. Renal biopsy in each case showed acute, severe, focal and segmental, necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis without immune deposits. Subsequent renal biopsies revealed severe glomerular and tubulointerstitial scarring. No vasculitis or granulomas were seen on renal, skin, or lung biopsies. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) were not detected in sera taken 1.5 years in the boy and 3.5 years in the girl after the onset of renal disease. The boy was treated with prednisone, azathioprine, and plasmapheresis, but developed progressive renal impairment and commenced dialysis within 4 years. Subsequent to renal transplantation, he developed an immunoblastic lymphoma and died. The girl was treated initially with prednisone and later with cyclophosphamide. After 4 years, she had a normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR). While necrotizing nonimmune glomerulonephritis associated with pulmonary hemorrhage is rare, and cases are characteristically difficult to classify because of many overlapping features, it is possible that these children had a unique illness. 
Detection of deletions and cryptic translocations in Miller-Dieker syndrome by in situ hybridization. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using two cosmid probes (41A and P13) from the Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS) critical region in 17p13.3 was performed in a blinded comparison of three MDS patients with submicroscopic deletions and in four normal relatives used as controls. The controls showed both chromosome 17 homologues labeled in 85%-95% of cells, while each patient showed only one homologue labeled in 75%-80% of cells. Two MDS patients with cryptic translocations were also studied. In one case, a patient and her mother had the same der(17) (p+), but the reciprocal product of the translocation could not be identified in the mother by G-banding (i.e., it was a "half-cryptic" translocation). FISH revealed a 3q;17p translocation. The other case involved a patient with apparently normal karyotype. Because a large molecular deletion was found, a translocation involving two G-negative telomeres (i.e., a "full-cryptic" translocation) was postulated. FISH studies on her father and normal brother showed an 8q;17p translocation. These studies demonstrate that in situ hybridization is an efficient method for deletion detection in Miller-Dieker syndrome. More important, parental studies by FISH on patients demonstrating molecular deletions and a normal karyotype may identify cryptic translocation events, which cannot be detected by other molecular genetic strategies. Similar in situ strategies for deletion detection can be developed for other microdeletion syndromes, such as Prader-Willi/Angelman syndrome or DiGeorge syndrome. 
Complication of a penile prosthesis reservoir: venous compression masquerading as a deep venous thrombosis. We report a case of vascular compromise secondary to the reservoir of an inflatable penile prosthesis. The problem masqueraded as deep venous thrombosis in the lower extremity of a patient 3 years after a spinal cord injury. 
Antibiotic prophylaxis and tourniquet inflation in total knee arthroplasty. Twenty-four patients receiving total knee arthroplasty (TKA) were randomized into one of three groups based on tourniquet inflation one, two, or five minutes after administration 1 g cefazolin. Simultaneous serum, soft-tissue, and bone samples were obtained at regular intervals during surgery. All soft-tissue and bone samples were corrected for cefazolin content. The percentage of cefazolin penetration into soft tissue and bone was calculated using the area under the concentration time curve. Adequate cefazolin concentrations for soft tissue and bone were defined as greater than or equal to 4 x minimum inhibitory concentration90 (MIC90 = 1 microgram/ml) of cefazolin to Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci. Patients were similar in age, actual body weight, creatinine clearance, and length of tourniquet inflation. The median percentage of cefazolin penetration into soft tissue and bone for the five-, two-, and one-minute groups was 14.5% and 4.6%, 6.7% and 3.0%, and 5.9% and 4.6%, respectively; the percentage of penetration into soft tissue between the five- and one-minute groups was statistically significant. A higher percentage of patients achieved the desired cefazolin concentration (greater than or equal to 4 micrograms/g) if a five-minute interval was selected. The five-minute group achieved the highest mean ratios of concentration to MIC compared with the two- and one-minute groups, although the differences were not statistically significant. The standard 1 g of cefazolin with a five-minute interval between administration and tourniquet inflation resulted in adequate mean soft-tissue and bone concentrations for prophylaxis during TKA with a tourniquet time less than two hours. Additional doses are not warranted after tourniquet release. 
A time-dependent study of passive esophageal wall properties and collagen content in rabbits with esophageal varices. The passive biomechanical wall properties of the esophagus were studied in rabbits with esophageal varices and controls using a four-electrode impedance technique. Stepwise pressure inflation and deflation was done for analysis of esophageal cross-sectional area, compliance, and hysteresis monthly during six months. At sacrifice, the esophageal collagen content was determined. A small but statistically insignificant increase in compliance was observed during the six-month observation period in both groups. No differences were observed between the groups (P greater than 0.3). No change in hysteresis was observed in either group. The group with esophageal varices had significantly higher collagen content in the distal esophagus when compared to controls (P less than 0.05). No difference was demonstrated in the proximal part. No correlation was demonstrated between the collagen content and esophageal compliance. The study demonstrated that the method allows measurement of luminal cross-sectional area and tissue elasticity. No relationship was found, however, between the collagen content and compliance of the rabbit esophagus. 
Validity of cerebrovascular mortality rates. Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) mortality rates are being increasingly used to establish a relationship with coronary heart disease risk factors. Cerebrovascular mortality rates suffer from the same general defects as coronary heart disease mortality rates but with greater diagnostic error in regard to subdivisions of CVD or stroke. These vital statistics, whether national or regional, are too inaccurate for scientific use and cannot be regarded as representing true mortality rates for any country. Moreover, clinical CVD is an inappropriate surrogate for severity of atherosclerosis, providing inexact data and allowing indeterminate overlap in epidemiologic studies. 
Blood conservation techniques and platelet function in cardiac surgery. Postoperative alterations in platelet function induced by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) are of importance. The effect on platelet aggregation of three different techniques for reducing blood consumption was studied in 30 patients undergoing elective aortocoronary bypass grafting from the beginning of anesthesia until the 1st postoperative day. The patients were randomly divided into three groups, in which 1) a cell separator was used during and after CPB; 2) a hemofiltration device was used; and 3) high-dose aprotinin was used in order to reduce the need of homologous blood. A fourth group undergoing neurosurgery procedures served as a control. Platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate (concentration 0.25, 0.50, 1.0, and 2.0 microM), collagen (4 microliters/ml), and epinephrine (25 microM) was determined by the turbidimetric method. Platelet aggregation was not significantly changed in the control group, indicating that the operation itself did not impair platelet function. At the end of the operation (after retransfusion of the salvaged pump blood), the maximum aggregation and maximum gradient of aggregation induced by all three inductors were most reduced (significantly) in the cell-separator patients. On the 1st postoperative day, platelet aggregation in the hemofiltration patients and the patients treated with aprotinin had normalized. Aggregation of patients pretreated with high-dose aprotinin was not different from that of the hemofiltration patients throughout the investigation. Blood loss was significantly highest in the cell-separator group (770 +/- 400 ml on the 1st postoperative day) but was not different between the hemofiltration (390 +/- 230 ml) and the aprotinin-treated patients (260 +/- 160 ml). 
A prosthesis augmentation device for the prevention of recurrent hip dislocation. A preliminary report. At present, revision is the only standard option for cases of recurrent hip prosthesis dislocation. A device is described that contains the head of the femoral component, preventing dislocation, while only slightly restricting external rotation of the affected leg. The device can be inserted through a small incision, minimizing operation time. This device differs from others, e.g., the reversed acetabular cup, by being predrilled (with drill guide supplied), modular in design, and tailored to the dimensions of the cup site. 
Transvaginal sonographic characterization of ovarian disease: evaluation of a new scoring system to predict ovarian malignancy. With the advent of high-frequency transvaginal ultrasonography, new opportunities are presented to better define ovarian lesions. The goal of this study was to develop a scoring system using transvaginal sonographic characterization of pelvic/ovarian lesions. Our purpose was to maximize the discrimination between benign and malignant entities. Transvaginal sonographic pelvic images of 143 patients were correlated with surgical findings or histopathology. Of 281 ovaries, 108 had benign lesions (30 endometriomas, 24 teratomas, 21 simple cysts, and 33 other abnormalities) and 20 had malignancies. The scoring system devised was useful in distinguishing benign from malignant masses, with a specificity of 83%, sensitivity of 100%, and positive and negative predictive values of 37 and 100%, respectively. Further experience and refinements of this method of scoring should maximize the benefit of high-resolution transvaginal sonography of ovarian lesions. 
Conformational structure of a monoclonal anti-idiotypic antibody to the monoclonal anti-adenocarcinoma-associated carbohydrate antibody YH206. The mAb AI206 (IgG1) is an anti-Id antibody of mAb YH206 (IgM) to adenocarcinoma-associated carbohydrate Ag and inhibits the reaction of mAb YH206 to YH206 Ag at low concentrations. By Western blot analysis, mAb AI206 only reacted with unreduced mAb YH206, whereas it did not react with reduced mAb YH206. Furthermore, mAb AI206 reacted with IgM subunit (180 kDa), F(ab')2 (110 kDa), and F(ab) (50 kDa) of pepsin-treated unreduced mAb YH206. Thus, mAb AI206 recognized the structure of F(ab) of mAb YH206. The mAb YH206 reacted with unreduced mAb AI206, F(ab')2 (110 kDa), and F(ab) (50 kDa) of pepsin-treated unreduced mAb AI206. It is presumed that mAb YH206 and mAb AI206 recognize each other in an unreduced condition but not a reduced condition. The recognition of such a conformational Id on F(ab) is important. Because mAb YH206 recognized the carbohydrate on YH206 Ag as well as the peptide on mAb AI206, the conformation on F(ab) of mAb AI206 may mimic the carbohydrate structure on YH206 Ag. In fact, YH206 antibody activity was induced in syngeneic mouse serum immunized with mAb AI206. These observations suggest that the internal image of YH206 carbohydrate Ag is preserved within the conformational Id on F(ab) of mAb AI206. 
Growth-inhibitory effect of combination chemotherapy for human pancreatic cancer cell lines. Sensitivities to anti-tumor drugs, mitomycin C (MMC), aclarubicin hydrochloride (ACR), doxorubicin hydrochloride (ADR), cisplatin, and 5-fluorouracil (5FU), were examined using PK-1, -8, -9, -12, -14, and -16 cell lines derived from human pancreatic cancer. These cell lines showed different sensitivities to each of the above anti-tumor drugs. The concentrations required for 50% growth-inhibition (IC50) after 2 hours of exposure were 0.096 to 0.35 micrograms/ml for MMC, 0.0074 to 0.0076 micrograms/ml for ACR, 0.033 to 0.23 micrograms/ml for ADR, 0.35 to 1.9 micrograms/ml for cisplatin, and 21 to 42 micrograms/ml for 5FU, IC50 of each anti-tumor drug decreased significantly after 48 hours of exposure. The combination of any two out of MMC, ACR, and 5FU showed synergistic inhibition of the growth of PK-1 and PK-8 cell lines. These results show that MMC, ACR, ADR, cisplatin, and 5FU have sufficient anti-tumor effect against six human pancreatic cancer cell lines even at clinically achievable concentrations and exposure times, and chemotherapy for pancreatic cancers requires naturally effective drug delivery into cancer tissues. 
Cerebrospinal fluid atrial natriuretic factor in intracranial disease. We tested the hypothesis that the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid is an indicator of brain injury in patients with intracranial disease. Atrial natriuretic factor concentration was measured in 72 samples of cerebrospinal fluid from 28 patients with intraventricular drains and in nine samples from outpatient controls undergoing diagnostic lumbar puncture. Levels were correlated with diagnosis; systemic fluid administration; concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the plasma; intracranial pressure; sodium, glucose, and protein concentrations, osmolality, and cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid; sodium concentration in the serum; and hemodynamics. Atrial natriuretic factor concentration was highest in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with intracerebral hematoma, followed by those with obstructive hydrocephalus and subarachnoid hemorrhage (19 +/- 2, 13 +/- 3, and 8 +/- 2 pg/ml, respectively); atrial natriuretic factor concentration was less than 4 pg/ml in the controls. Patients treated with fluid restriction had significantly higher atrial natriuretic factor levels than those receiving maintenance or high-volume fluids (16 +/- 3, 8 +/- 2, 10 +/- 1 pg/ml, respectively). The concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the plasma was significantly elevated in patients with intracerebral hematoma and subarachnoid hemorrhage (155 +/- 38 and 92 +/- 20 pg/ml, respectively) and did not correlate with fluid administration or the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid. Neither cerebrospinal fluid nor plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor correlated with intracranial pressure; cerebrospinal fluid sodium, glucose, or protein concentrations, osmolality, or cell count; serum sodium concentration; or hemodynamics. We conclude that the concentration of atrial natriuretic factor in the cerebrospinal fluid is a nonspecific indicator of brain injury. 
Incidence of venous thromboembolism verified by necropsy over 30 years. OBJECTIVE--To determine the incidence of venous thromboembolism in all necropsy reports over 30 years. DESIGN--Study of all necropsies in one hospital in 1987 and longitudinal analysis of results of necropsy in 1957, 1964, 1975, and 1987. SETTING--Departments of general surgery, infectious diseases, internal medicine, oncology, and orthopaedics in a Swedish general hospital. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Number of cases of venous thromboembolism. RESULTS--About a third of all necropsies showed venous thromboembolism. In 1987, 260 of 347 necropsies showing venous thromboembolism found pulmonary embolism, of which 93 were classified as fatal, 90 as contributory, and 77 as incidental. Only 21 contributory or fatal postoperative pulmonary emboli were seen. In only 106 of 260 patients with pulmonary embolism did routine necropsy not show the source of embolism. Calf veins were not routinely examined. Deep venous thrombosis was seen in 239 patients in 1987. The incidence of venous thromboembolism in the four years studied was remarkably stable except in the department of orthopaedics, where the proportion fell from 60.7% in 1975 to 32.2% in 1987 (p less than 0.05), although there were only a few patients. CONCLUSIONS--The overall incidence of venous thromboembolism has not changed over 30 years. During this period the proportion of the population aged over 65 has doubled, and this may have masked the beneficial effects of prophylaxis and early mobilisation. Prevalences corrected for age are needed. 
Bypass surgery for chronic stable angina: predictors of survival benefit and strategy for patient selection. The variable mortality risk associated with chronic stable angina calls for careful selection of patients for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) if the aim of management is to prolong life. The randomized and observational studies done in the last 20 years have identified the variables relevant to patient selection and thus have provided a rational basis for such clinical decisions. These studies showed that the sicker the patient, as gauged by relevant measures of coronary disease and cardiovascular morbidity, the more likely it is that CABG will prolong life. A CABG-related improvement in survival is therefore more likely to occur the worse the left ventricular function; the greater the number of diseased vessels; the more proximal the location of coronary lesions (more muscle is threatened by such lesions); the greater the severity of the lesions as determined by angiography; the more severe the angina; the more easily provocable the ischemia or the more extreme the measures of ischemia; and, within limits, the older the patient. Greater survival gain after CABG also occurs in patients with peripheral vascular disease, in patients with baseline electrocardiographic ST-segment and T-wave changes, and probably in women. Thus, patients are likely to live longer after CABG if they have left main disease; three-vessel disease with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction less than 50%), class III or IV angina, provocable ischemia, or disease in the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery; two-vessel disease with proximal left anterior descending artery involvement; and two-vessel disease with class III or IV angina as well as either severe left ventricular dysfunction alone or moderate left ventricular dysfunction together with at least one proximal lesion. When the decision of whether to do CABG is less clear-cut, the presence of peripheral vascular disease, female sex, baseline electrocardiographic ST-segment and T-wave changes, or older age (over 60 but under 80 years) should weigh in favor of doing CABG. In general, patients with single-vessel disease do not seem to derive survival benefit from CABG. 
A case of chronic mountain sickness diagnosed by routine pulmonary function tests. In summary, this is a patient who presented with respiratory acidosis and cor pulmonale. The major diagnostic challenge was in differentiating primary cardiopulmonary disease from a central abnormality of ventilatory drive. The arterial blood gases showed a normal A-a gradient suggesting hypoventilation as the etiology of his hypoxemia. Pulmonary function testing showed air trapping, but a relatively normal FEV1/FVC and airways resistance. The literature suggests that most altitude natives have depressed hypoxemic and hypercapnic drives with a distinct subset demonstrating a profoundly depressed drive to ventilation. This latter group has been labeled as having chronic mountain sickness or Monge's disease. As one might expect, ventilatory control during sleep is also abnormal in these patients with CMS. Our patient indeed showed typical frequent severe desaturations with hypopnea. The diagnosis of CMS in our patient was made with routine arterial blood gases and standard pulmonary function tests. Additional tests of ventilatory responsiveness to oxygen and carbon dioxide could have been performed, but are not necessary to make the diagnosis. 
Factors common to successful therapy for the obese patient. The majority of patients treated for obesity regain lost weight after treatment. We speculate on what might be done to improve long-term success rates by examining the factors associated with success or relapse. An emphasis on exercise and prescribing more gradual changes in diet and exercise appears to be associated with better outcomes. There may be a need to conceptualize obesity as a food dependency disorder not amenable to self-control strategies. External social control through peer support groups may be indicated to help patients through temptations. 
Fulminant hepatic failure after repeated exposure to isoflurane anesthesia: a case report. A previously healthy but obese 26-yr-old woman was diagnosed as having hepatic dysfunction 17 days after the third of three consecutive exposures to isoflurane anesthesia for paranasal sinus surgery. Serum laboratory findings included elevated aminotransferases and bilirubin. Radiographical evaluations showed no evidence of extrahepatic disease. Serological studies were negative for acute viral infections, and serum copper was normal. The patient's condition deteriorated over the ensuing 17 days, with hyperreflexia, hypoglycemia and a rapid fall in serum aminotransferases with a concomitant rise in bilirubin level and prothrombin time despite maximal medical support. The liver volume as shown by computed tomography fell from 1,290 cm3 to 680 cm3 over 6 days. The patient underwent successful orthotopic liver transplantation 25 days after onset of symptoms. Histopathological examination of the resected liver showed submassive and massive necrosis, with a few foci of microvesicular steatosis and ultrastructural evidence of mitochondrial abnormalities. Although we found insufficient evidence to prove that this case was caused by isoflurane anesthesia, the clinical course and histopathological findings are similar to those in hepatic injury caused by halothane anesthesia. Therefore we report this as a possible case of fulminant hepatic failure resulting from isoflurane anesthesia. 
Anterior decompression in cervical spine trauma: does the timing of surgery affect the outcome? To clarify the ideal timing of anterior decompression and stabilization for all patients with cervical spine trauma as well as its efficacy for patients with complete deficits, we reviewed the records of 103 consecutive patients with cervical spine trauma (50 incomplete deficits, Group A; 53 complete deficits, Group B) who underwent this procedure during a 5-year period at the Shock Trauma Center. We subdivided each group according to time of surgery: early and delayed (less than 24 and greater than 24 hours past injury, respectively). In Group A, 10 patients underwent early surgery and 40 patients underwent delayed surgery (range, 2 to 77 days past injury; mean, 13 days). One patient (2.5%) in the delayed group died. The following data refer to the early and delayed subgroups, respectively: average acute hospitalization, 20 and 22 days; patient motor score improvement (at discharge), 37.2 and 45.0%; functional grade improvement (at discharge), 5 (50.0%) and 9 (22.5%) patients. At 1-year follow-up, every patient who had had a deficit had progressed to a higher functional grade. In Group B, 35 patients underwent early surgery and 18 underwent delayed surgery (range, 2 to 45 days past injury; mean, 13 days). One patient (2.9%) in the early group died. The following data refer to the early and delayed subgroups, respectively: average acute hospitalization, 38.7 and 45.2 days (P less than 0.05); respiratory care (number of daily suction procedures), 6.0 and 9.86 (P less than 0.05); patient motor score improvement (at discharge), 3.9 and 4.5%; functional grade improvement (at discharge), 4 (11.4%) and 1 (5.6%) patients. 
Increased circulating concentration of the N-terminus of the atrial natriuretic factor prohormone in persons with pheochromocytomas. To investigate the possible relationship of hypertension and the N-terminus of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) prohormone which contains two peptides [i.e. pro ANF-(1-30) and pro-ANF-(31-67)] with blood pressure-lowering effects, we examined the circulating levels of the N-terminus of the ANF prohormone in three patients with pheochromocytomas before surgery, during an increase in their blood pressure with surgical manipulation of their tumors, and after surgery when their blood pressures returned to normal. The circulating levels of the whole N-terminus [amino acids 1-98; pro-ANF-(1-98)] and pro-ANF-(31-67) from the midportion of the N-terminus of the ANF prohormone were increased 2-fold in patients with both extraadrenal and intraadrenal pheochromocytomas. In both the intraadrenal and extraadrenal patients N-terminus [pro-ANF-(1-98)] and pro-ANF-(31-67) circulating levels increased further during surgical manipulation and returned to normal after surgical removal of their respective tumors. Each of these pheochromocytomas was found to have pro-ANF-(1-30) and -(31-67)-binding sites that were functional, since they could enhance the guanylate cyclase-cGMP system 2-fold in these pheochromocytomas. The entire 126 amino acids of the prohormone were present within each of the pheochromocytomas, since both the whole N-terminus and C-terminus (i.e. ANF) of the prohormone were present. Examination of the pheochromocytomas by electron microscopy revealed electron-dense granules similar to those in the heart, which have been associated with the synthesis and storage of the ANF prohormone. We conclude that 1) the whole N-terminus [pro-ANF-(1-98)] and pro-ANF-(31-67) of the ANF prohormone circulate at higher concentrations in persons with pheochromocytomas and return to normal with removal of the tumors; 2) pheochromocytomas contain specific binding sites for pro-ANF-(1-30) and -(31-67); 3) these binding sites are functional, since pro-ANF-(1-30) and -(31-67) could enhance the enzyme guanylate cyclase within these tumors; and 4) the entire 126 amino acids of the ANF prohormone are present within these tumors, which have electron-dense granules associated with polypeptide hormone synthesis, suggesting that the ANF prohormone is being synthesized within the pheochromocytomas. 
A case-control study of the effects of birth by caesarean section on intrapartum and neonatal mortality among twins weighing 1500-2499 g. The aim of this nationally-based, matched case-control study was to assess the impact of birth by caesarean section on intrapartum, and neonatal mortality among twins weighing 1500-2499 g, born in Sweden between 1973 and 1983. By using data held at the National Medical Birth Registry, Stockholm, 91 such pregnancies (study cases) where one or both twins died were identified. For each case, two controls (in all 182 pregnancies) were allotted at random from the rest of the twin pregnancies, with similar birthweight (+/- 100 g) and year of delivery (+/- 1 year). The number of twins that died was reduced from 73 during the first four years to 22 between 1977 and 1980, and to 6 during the last 3 years of the study period. Almost a quarter (23.1%) had a lethal malformation. The caesarean section rate increased during the study period, but did not differ between cases and controls (chi 2 = 1.0; P greater than 0.05). The analysis could not confirm a significant difference between cases and controls regarding the number of infants born vaginally in non-vertex presentation (chi 2 = 0.1; P greater than 0.05). The results of this study appear to indicate that birth by caesarean section was not a major factor related to the improved fetal outcome. 
The prognostic significance of glial fibrillary acidic protein staining in medulloblastoma. Histologic and immunohistochemical properties of 53 medulloblastomas were analyzed with regard to clinical features and survival rate. No correlation was found between survival rate and histologic features of the tumor, such as desmoplastic reaction, number of mitoses, hemorrhages, necrosis, endothelial proliferation, glomerular arrangement, calcifications, rosettes, or oligodendroglial cells. However 82% of the patients with positive glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) staining in numerous tumor cells survived more than 5 years; only 30% survived that long if their tumor cells were GFAP negative (P = 0.0093). This significant difference was not related to the mode of therapeutic protocol used. The authors suggest that GFAP staining may be a useful prognostic tool in medulloblastoma. 
Lacunae: a urographic finding in chronic obstructive uropathy. Lacunae, small spaces in the renal sinus that communicate with the caliceal fornices, have been mentioned rarely in the radiologic literature. These lesions have been reported to opacify during excretory urography in patients with current or previous urinary obstruction. Lacunae have been presumed to form in response to urine extravasation through the fornices, but there has never been gross anatomic or histologic proof of their existence. In two patients with obstructive uropathy, urographic-pathologic correlation confirmed the existence and nature of lacunae. On excretory urography, the appearance is likely to be confused with papillary necrosis. 
Monitoring functional patency of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Duplex scanning and Doppler-derived blood pressure measurements were used to serially monitor lower limb hemodynamics in 73 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Ninety percutaneous transluminal angioplasty sites judged technically satisfactory by arteriography were evaluated. Significant hemodynamic improvement was seen in 81 (90%) of the 90 limbs, although both hemodynamic and clinical improvement were achieved in only 77 (86%) limbs. Duplex scanning within 1 week of successful angioplasty identified moderate (20% to 49% diameter reduction) or severe (greater than 50% diameter reduction) residual stenosis in 49 (63%) of 77 balloon-dilated arterial segments. The presence of a greater than 50% diameter reduction residual stenosis predicted further restenosis and late clinical failure (11% success rate at 1 year). When the degree of residual stenosis at the percutaneous transluminal angioplasty site was less than 50% diameter reduction by duplex scanning, the procedure was durable (80% success rate at 2 years), even in patients with critical ischemia, poor runoff, or diabetes mellitus. 
Anterior mediastinal masses: utility of transthoracic needle biopsy. The results of 143 transthoracic needle biopsies (TNBs) in 126 patients with anterior mediastinal masses were compared with the final diagnosis, which was proved with pathologic study (n = 95) or clinicoradiologic methods (n = 31). In the 26 patients with lymphoma, the sensitivity of TNB was 42%; the specificity, 96%. In the 15 patients with Hodgkin disease, the sensitivity was 20%. In the 28 patients with thymoma, the sensitivity was 71%; the specificity, 94%. In the 11 patients with germ cell tumors, the sensitivity was 91%; specificity, 98%. The sensitivity in the 33 patients with metastatic disease was 70%; specificity, 100%. The cytologic specimens were examined with light microscopy and the Papanicolaou method only, a limitation that explains the difficulty in differentiating lymphoma from thymoma and that can now be overcome with immunohistochemical study. TNB of anterior mediastinal masses is useful in metastatic disease and germ cell tumors. Lymphoma and thymoma are less reliably diagnosed unless immunohistochemical cytologic methods are applied. 
Entrapment of the popliteal artery. Although entrapment of the popliteal artery is uncommon, it is an important cause of arterial insufficiency in younger patients. Accurate diagnosis depends on a high index of suspicion combined with dynamic noninvasive testing and "stress angiography." Although angiographic demonstration of medial deviation of the artery is diagnostic, absence of this finding does not exclude the diagnosis of entrapment of the popliteal artery. Positional angiography may be necessary in these instances. Surgical exploration should be performed by a posterior approach, since this facilitates identification of the precise anatomic variant while allowing easy arterial repair, if necessary. The condition of the popliteal popliteal artery must dictate the extent of the surgical procedure. If the popliteal artery is normal, then relief of the constricting lesion alone will suffice. If the artery appears diseased or is thrombosed, then myotomy and arterial reconstruction must be performed. This is best accomplished by bypass grafting using autogenous vein or artery. If thromboendarterectomy is used, the clinician can expect a higher percentage of acute postoperative thromboses. 
Can esmolol manage surgically-induced tachycardia? Bolus esmolol treatment of intra-operative tachycardia due to surgical stimulation. A double-blind, randomised study was conducted to examine the efficacy of a single bolus dose of esmolol in treating surgically-induced tachycardia. Anaesthetic technique was identical in all patients, and consisted of premedication with midazolam and glycopyrronium, induction with thiopentone followed by suxamethonium, tracheal intubation, and maintenance with isoflurane 0.6% (end-tidal) and 60% nitrous oxide in oxygen. Forty-eight patients developed a heart rate of greater than 95 beats/minute or 20% more than pre-induction values at an average time of 34 minutes after tracheal intubation and received placebo (15 patients), esmolol 50 mg (16 patients), or esmolol 100 mg (17 patients). Controlled intervention was instituted if heart rate or blood pressure was not adequate. Both 50 and 100 mg of esmolol resulted in lower heart rates compared to placebo (p less than 0.05), with no difference between the two esmolol groups (p greater than 0.05). Patients who received placebo had more episodes of medical intervention than those given esmolol (p less than 0.05). No adverse effects occurred in any patient. 
Tamoxifen in premenopausal patients with metastatic breast cancer: a review. The antiestrogen tamoxifen is the most widely used hormonal therapy for breast cancer. The drug exerts its antiproliferative effects primarily through estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated mechanisms, although other cellular actions may augment tumor inhibition. Clinically, tamoxifen has been less well studied in premenopausal than in postmenopausal patients. The drug has complex endocrine effects that are dependent on the treatment duration and dose, menopausal status, and target organ. In postmenopausal women receiving tamoxifen, serum estrogen levels remain low, and the normally elevated gonadotropin levels decrease. In contrast, serum estrogen levels are strikingly elevated in many premenopausal women, and gonadotropin concentrations are either unchanged or slightly increased. Large systematic trials in metastatic breast cancer have established tamoxifen as the recommended hormonal therapy for postmenopausal women with ER-positive tumors. Tamoxifen is also an active agent for premenopausal metastatic disease, and response rates are comparable to those reported for oophorectomy. Clinical experience with tamoxifen in this younger age group, however, is more limited. Few premenopausal women (less than 400) have been included in phase II and phase III trials. Two randomized trials (total of 160 patients) comparing oophorectomy with tamoxifen do not definitively establish therapeutic equivalence, and a survival advantage for either treatment cannot be excluded. Many questions remain concerning the appropriate role for tamoxifen in premenopausal patients. Still, tamoxifen has an attractive toxicity profile, and it offers a favorable therapeutic alternative for premenopausal women with ER-positive metastatic breast cancer who wish to avoid surgical or radiation castration. 
Transient loss of consciousness: the value of the history for distinguishing seizure from syncope. We studied 94 consecutive patients (age 15 or over) to investigate which aspects of the history and clinical findings help to distinguish seizures from syncope and related conditions. Clonic movements or automatism observed by an eyewitness classified an event as a seizure. The seizure group consisted of 41 patients and the syncope group of 53 patients. The likelihood ratio was used to calculate the predictive power of single findings and logistic regression to analyse combinations of findings. The best discriminatory finding was orientation immediately after the event according to the eyewitness and the age of the patient in the absence of an eyewitness report (P less than 0.001). We found a seizure five times more likely than syncope if the patient was disoriented after the event and three times more likely if the patient was less than 45 years of age. Nausea or sweating before the event were useful to exclude a seizure. Incontinence and trauma were not discriminative findings. 
Fc receptor function and circulating immune complexes in gluten sensitive enteropathy--possible significance of serum IgA. The capacity to clear IgG containing immune complexes from the circulation was studied in patients with coeliac disease (n = 13), dermatitis herpetiformis (n = 8), and coeliac disease with concomitant serum IgA deficiency (n = 4). A small group of patients with active ulcerative colitis (n = 4) was included as a bowel disease control group. Clearance was estimated by measuring the disappearance rate of a bolus dose of intravenously injected IgG coated autologous erythrocytes. The mean T1/2 of clearance was prolonged in both coeliac disease (86 (24) minutes) and dermatitis herpetiformis (111 (35) minutes), compared with healthy subjects (20 (5) minutes) and coeliac patients with concomitant serum IgA deficiency (T1/2 = 17 (6) minutes). Patients with ulcerative colitis had a prolonged clearance, with a T1/2 of 195 (63) minutes. Values of circulating immune complexes were measured by four assays; C1q binding and C3, IgG, and IgA containing immune complexes. C1q binding immune complexes were detected only in IgA deficient gluten sensitive enteropathy. Patients with coeliac disease and dermatitis herpetiformis had higher values of C3, IgG, and IgA containing immune complexes than control subjects and serum IgA deficient patients with coeliac disease. The clearance rate was inversely correlated to the amount of immune complexes for the subgroups of gluten sensitive enteropathy. 
Glandular excision in total glandular mastectomy and modified radical mastectomy: a comparison. Total glandular mastectomy and modified radical mastectomy were compared for the amount of breast tissue remaining after surgery. Multiple biopsies were taken from the anterior chest walls of women following total glandular mastectomy (N = 27) and modified radical mastectomy (N = 28) to try to detect any residual glandular tissue. Regardless of procedure performed, breast tissue was identified histologically in 5 percent of all biopsy specimens (159 and 161, respectively). One of every five operative fields was shown to have glandular elements in at least one of the biopsy sites; the positive biopsies did not form a discernible pattern. The residual breast tissue in each of these patients averaged less than 1 gm. On the basis of this study, modified radical mastectomy and total glandular mastectomy appear to be equally effective in removing most of the breast. 
Fingerstick glucose determination in shock. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the accuracy of fingerstick glucose measurements in severely hypotensive patients. DESIGN: Prospective, nonrandomized comparison study. SETTING: Emergency department in a university hospital. PATIENTS: Twenty-five severely hypotensive patients (systolic blood pressure less than or equal to 80 mm Hg) and 39 normotensive patients. MEASUREMENTS: Simultaneous fingerstick reagent strip glucose, venous reagent strip glucose, and laboratory glucose values were compared. Data were analyzed using error-grid analysis. RESULTS: In hypotensive patients, the mean fingerstick glucose values were significantly lower than the values obtained either by venous reagent strip or laboratory glucose measurements. Fingerstick glucose values in the hypotensive group were 67.5% of laboratory glucose values, and were significantly lower than the values obtained in the normotensive group (91.8%, P less than 0.001). Only 36% of the hypotensive patients had fingerstick glucose values within the acceptable range of 20% of the laboratory glucose value. Thirty-two percent of hypotensive patients were incorrectly diagnosed as hypoglycemic (glucose less than 3.89 mmol/L [70 mg/dL]); 2 of these patients were actually hyperglycemic (glucose greater than 11.10 mmol/L [200 mg/dL]). Venous reagent strip measurements accurately reflected laboratory glucose values in both hypotensive and normotensive patients. CONCLUSIONS: Fingerstick glucose testing does not accurately represent venous glucose levels in severely hypotensive patients. If fingerstick glucose testing is relied on for these patients, errors in clinical management may be made. Venous reagent strip glucose testing correlates well with laboratory glucose measurements and should be the preferred method for rapid assessment of glucose level in critically ill patients with severe hypotension. 
Does atrial appendectomy aggravate secretory function of atrial natriuretic polypeptide? The present study was designed to clarify how atrial appendectomy affects hemodynamics and secretory function of atrial natriuretic polypeptide in the failing heart. Eleven mongrel dogs were prepared for the experimental model of high-output heart failure by creation of arteriovenous fistulas between femoral arteries and veins. Two months after the first operation, effects of bilateral atrial appendectomies on basal and pacing-induced secretions of atrial natriuretic polypeptide were investigated in five dogs with simultaneous measurement of various hemodynamic indices. In the remaining six dogs, used as a control group, pacing-induced secretion of atrial natriuretic polypeptide was examined in the same way as in the appendectomy group. After excision of the atrial appendages, neither systolic blood pressure nor either atrial pressure changed, but plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide level was decreased (292 +/- 54 to 188 +/- 47 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and cardiac output fell (3.7 +/- 0.9 to 3.0 +/- 0.8 L/min, p less than 0.01). During pacing-induced tachycardia, the peak level of plasma atrial natriuretic polypeptide was lower in the appendectomy group than in the control groups (593 +/- 213 versus 1170 +/- 324 pg/ml, p less than 0.05), despite similar left atrial pressures in the two groups. The excised appendages contained approximately 30% of the total amount of atrial natriuretic polypeptide. These results demonstrate that atrial appendectomy decreases secretory function of atrial natriuretic polypeptide and reduces cardiac output in dogs with experimental high-output heart failure. 
Extended aortic valvuloplasty: a new approach for the management of congenital valvar aortic stenosis. A new technique for the treatment of congenital valvar aortic stenosis is described. It consists of augmenting the aortic cusp by extending the commissurotomy incision into the aortic wall around the leaflet insertion, mobilizing the valve cusp attachment at the commissures, and freeing the aortic insertion of the rudimentary commissure. The results of standard valvotomy performed on 48 patients (group 1) were compared with those of the new extended valvuloplasty carried out on 16 patients (group 2). The two groups were comparable in age at operation (2.7 +/- 2.1 years for group 1 versus 2.1 +/- 1.7 years for group 2; p = not significant) and in preoperative pressure gradient (58 +/- 25 mm Hg for group 1 versus 61 +/- 36 mm Hg for group 2; p = not significant). There was no operative mortality in either group. Follow-up is available on all patients, with a mean of 4.3 +/- 2.6 years for group 1 versus 1.7 +/- 0.5 years for group 2 (p = 0.05). There was one late death in group 1. Postoperative gradient was 47 +/- 13 mm Hg in group 1 versus 19 +/- 13 mm Hg in group 2 (p = 0.05). Moderate or severe regurgitation was present in 18 patients (38%) in group 1 and 2 patients (13%) in group 2 (p = not significant). Reoperation was needed in 8 patients (17%) in group 1 versus 2 patients (13%) in group 2 (p = not significant). The described valvuloplasty procedure addresses the unique pathological features of valvar aortic stenosis and provides better relief of the obstruction than the presently available techniques. Longer follow-up is needed to determine the late results of this approach. 
Cocaine and indomethacin: fetal anuria, neonatal edema, and gastrointestinal bleeding. A case is reported in which exposure to cocaine and indomethacin was associated with development of fetal anuria, anasarca, and neonatal gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Cocaine and indomethacin may act synergistically to adversely affect renal, cardiovascular, and platelet function. It may be prudent to obtain a drug history and urine screen for cocaine before instituting indomethacin therapy for preterm labor or polyhydramnios. 
Pathologic and hemodynamic sequelae of unilobar biliary obstruction and associated liver atrophy. A patient is presented with unilobar biliary obstruction associated with marked liver atrophy and compensatory hypertrophy. Characteristically she was not jaundiced and had no portal hypertension. Quantitative measurements of the degree of hepatocyte hyperplasia showed that over 50% of cells in the hypertrophied lobe were hyperplastic. Surprisingly, a similar percentage of cells in the atrophied lobe were also hyperplastic. No difference was found in the size of hepatocytes between the two lobes or among the hepatocyte subpopulations in the atrophied lobe. The findings in this case suggest (1) lobar atrophy induces a hyperplastic response in more than one half of the cells of the contralateral lobe; (2) the development of atrophy consequent on biliary obstruction is likely the result of destruction of whole cells rather than cytoplasmic loss; (3) the development of a hyperplastic response within the atrophied lobe is a new finding and is consistent with the hormonal theory of hepatic regeneration; and (4) striking compensatory hypertrophy of the liver is associated with normal portal venous pressure. 
A randomized, controlled study of behavioral intervention for chemotherapy distress in children with cancer. Fifty-four pediatric cancer patients were studied to determine the relative efficacy of two forms of behavioral intervention for reducing chemotherapy-related distress. Following baseline assessment, subjects were randomly assigned to receive either hypnosis, non-hypnotic distraction/relaxation, or attention placebo (control) during the subsequent identical chemotherapy course. Observational and interview measures of anticipatory and postchemotherapy nausea, vomiting, distress, and functional disruption served as outcome data. Results indicated that treatment condition was the single best predictor of change from baseline to intervention, with children in the hypnosis group reporting the greatest reduction of both anticipatory and postchemotherapy symptoms. The cognitive distraction/relaxation intervention appeared to have a maintenance effect in which symptoms did not get much worse or much better, while children in the control group had symptoms that consistently became worse over time. Emetic potential of the chemotherapy and the prophylactic use of antiemetics each appeared to contribute to the overall severity of symptoms. While the efficacy of hypnosis in the management of chemotherapy distress is supported, the complexities of interacting biologic and psychologic factors are highlighted. 
Prospective, randomized controlled trial of interferon-alpha in children with chronic hepatitis B. Thirty-six children with chronic hepatitis B were entered into a randomized controlled trial of recombinant human interferon-alpha. All patients had hepatitis B virus DNA and increased levels of aminotransferases in serum for at least 1 yr. Twelve children received 10 MU of interferon-alpha 2b/m2 body surface area three times a week (group I); 12 children received 5 MU/m2 under the same conditions (group II); and 12 children served as controls (group III). During 6 mo of therapy, 12 of 24 (50%) treated patients (7 from group I, 58%, and 5 from group II, 42%) and 2 of 12 (17%) controls lost hepatitis B virus DNA from serum and subsequently remained negative. Comparison of the rate of response in group I vs. controls showed a statistically significant difference (p less than 0.05). Eleven of 12 (92%) treated patients who cleared hepatitis B virus DNA from serum lost HBeAg, seroconverted to anti-HBe and had improvement in liver histological findings with loss of hepatitis B virus DNA from liver. In 10, serum ALT levels became normal. Interferon-alpha was well tolerated and all children finished therapy. These findings indicate that a 6-mo course of interferon-alpha is effective in inducing a serological, biochemical and histological remission of disease in approximately 50% of children with chronic hepatitis B. 
High-attenuation mediastinal masses on unenhanced CT. On unenhanced CT scans, a variety of mediastinal masses contain areas with attenuation values higher than the attenuation value of the chest wall musculature. The increased attenuation may be diffuse or focal and may be a result of calcium deposition, high iodine content, or areas of acute hemorrhage. This report illustrates the gamut of high-attenuation mediastinal masses seen on unenhanced CT. Masses that are of high attenuation only on IV contrast-enhanced images (e.g., aberrant vessels) are not included. 
Is reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertension beneficial? The left ventricle increases its mass and wall thickness in hypertension as a result of the progressive increase in hemodynamic overload offered by increasing arterial blood pressure and total peripheral resistance. However, evidence is increasing that nonhemodynamic factors may also be important in the development of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). This LVH resulting from hypertensive disease conveys an independent risk of premature cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The specific mechanisms accounting for this increased risk are not known with assurance, although several mechanisms are under active study; they include more prominently ventricular dysrhythmias and myocardial ischemia. It is possible to diminish the increased left ventricular mass with pharmacological agents, although currently it is not known whether this reversal also diminishes the risk associated with LVH. Therefore, at the present time the best means for preventing the risk of LVH is to prevent its development in the first place, and this seems to be preventable through control of arterial blood pressure at the earliest stages of hypertension. Risk may also be diminished in patients with existing LVH who are receiving digitalis or diuretics or who have chronic fluid- and electrolyte-disturbing diseases. Under these circumstances, the careful use and selection of antihypertensive therapy and control of electrolyte balance no doubt will prevent unnecessary morbidity and mortality. 
Gastric cancer after gastric bypass for obesity. Case report. We describe a patient in whom gastric cancer developed after gastric bypass for morbid obesity. In addition, we review the literature to emphasize the technical problems involved in diagnosing disease in the excluded portion of the stomach. 
Ophthalmoplegia with headache. Be aware of diabetes. Cranial neuropathy affecting the eyes is a possible symptom of type II diabetes. In this article, Dr Dickerman describes a case in which diabetes was diagnosed in a 63-year-old woman who presented with unilateral headache and eye pain. 
Endoscopic sphincterotomy complications and their management: an attempt at consensus. Despite its relative safety (in comparison with surgery), and undoubted role in many clinical circumstances, biliary sphincterotomy is the most dangerous procedure routinely performed by endoscopists. Complications occur in about 10% of patients; 2 to 3% have a prolonged hospital stay, with a risk of dying. This document is an attempt to provide guidelines for prevention and management of complications, based on a workshop of selected experts, and a comprehensive review of the literature. We emphasize particularly the importance of specialist training, disinfection, drainage, and collaboration with surgical colleagues. 
Psychological stress and susceptibility to the common cold BACKGROUND. It is not known whether psychological stress suppresses host resistance to infection. To investigate this issue, we prospectively studied the relation between psychological stress and the frequency of documented clinical colds among subjects intentionally exposed to respiratory viruses. METHODS. After completing questionnaires assessing degrees of psychological stress, 394 healthy subjects were given nasal drops containing one of five respiratory viruses (rhinovirus type 2, 9, or 14, respiratory syncytial virus, or coronavirus type 229E), and an additional 26 were given saline nasal drops. The subjects were then quarantined and monitored for the development of evidence of infection and symptoms. Clinical colds were defined as clinical symptoms in the presence of an infection verified by the isolation of virus or by an increase in the virus-specific antibody titer. RESULTS. The rates of both respiratory infection (P less than 0.005) and clinical colds (P less than 0.02) increased in a dose-response manner with increases in the degree of psychological stress. Infection rates ranged from approximately 74 percent to approximately 90 percent, according to levels of psychological stress, and the incidence of clinical colds ranged from approximately 27 percent to 47 percent. These effects were not altered when we controlled for age, sex, education, allergic status, weight, the season, the number of subjects housed together, the infectious status of subjects sharing the same housing, and virus-specific antibody status at base line (before challenge). Moreover, the associations observed were similar for all five challenge viruses. Several potential stress-illness mediators, including smoking, alcohol consumption, exercise, diet, quality of sleep, white-cell counts, and total immunoglobulin levels, did not explain the association between stress and illness. Similarly, controls for personality variables (self-esteem, personal control, and introversion-extraversion) failed to alter our findings. CONCLUSIONS. Psychological stress was associated in a dose-response manner with an increased risk of acute infectious respiratory illness, and this risk was attributable to increased rates of infection rather than to an increased frequency of symptoms after infection. 
Chronic pain and substance abuse: a pilot study of opioid maintenance. Recent reports suggest that opioid maintenance may be appropriate for treatment-resistant patients with chronic nonmalignant pain syndromes. However, a history of substance abuse is thought to be a contraindication for such treatment. We present a pilot study of a methadone maintenance-type treatment for patients with both chronic pain and substance abuse, evaluating the ability to attract and hold patients, the methodology for assessing change, and the potential problems and pitfalls. Weekly random urinalysis, weekly psychotherapy, and quarterly self-report tests of pain, mood, and function were used to evaluate change. Three out of 4 patients remained in treatment for 19-21 months, stopped needle use, and/or markedly decreased substance abuse, and appear to have improved functionally. Surprisingly, all 3 patients had significant psychopathology requiring treatment with psychotropic medication. This treatment may warrant further research. 
Ciprofloxacin: drug of choice in the treatment of malignant external otitis (MEO). Ciprofloxacin, a fluorinated quinolone with high efficacy against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, was used in the treatment of 10 consecutive patients with malignant external otitis. All patients had skull base osteomyelitis documented by nuclear and computed tomography (CT) scans. Dosages of 1.5 g of ciprofloxacin daily were used for a mean average of 10 weeks. All patients were considered cured with a minimum follow-up of 18 months after completion of therapy. A new classification of malignant external otitis (MEO) is presented. 
Role of early fluid resuscitation in pediatric septic shock. OBJECTIVE. To examine the association of the volume of fluid administered at 1 and 6 hours after presentation, with survival and the occurrence of the adult respiratory distress syndrome, cardiogenic pulmonary edema, and persistent hypovolemia during the resuscitation of children with septic shock. SETTING AND PATIENTS. All pediatric patients with septic shock presenting to the emergency department over a 6-year period and having a pulmonary artery catheter inserted by 6 hours after presentation were identified. METHODS. Patients were analyzed together and in three groups based on fluid volume in the first hour: group 1, less than 20 mL/kg; group 2, 20 to 40 mL/kg; and group 3, more than 40 mL/kg. Adult respiratory distress syndrome was diagnosed by the presence of alveolar infiltrates, hypoxemia, and a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 15 mm Hg or less. Cardiogenic pulmonary edema was diagnosed similarly, except the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was greater than 15 mm Hg. Hypovolemia was diagnosed by the presence of oliguria, hypotension, and a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 8 mm Hg or less 6 hours after presentation. RESULTS. We identified 34 patients (median age, 13.5 months). At 1 and 6 hours, respectively, group 1 (n = 14) received 11 +/- 6 and 71 +/- 29 mL/kg (mean +/- SD) of fluid; group 2 received 32 +/- 5 and 108 +/- 54 mL/kg of fluid; and group 3 received 69 +/- 19 and 117 +/- 29 mL/kg of fluid. Survival in group 3 (eight of nine patients) was significantly better than in group 1 (six of 14 patients) or group 2 (four of 11 patients). Adult respiratory distress syndrome developed in 11 patients (32%) and cardiogenic pulmonary edema developed in five patients (15%). Having adult respiratory distress syndrome was associated with increased mortality, but adult respiratory distress syndrome was not increased in any group. Similarly, cardiogenic pulmonary edema was not associated with the fluid volume received or with decreased survival. Hypovolemia occurred in six patients in group 1 and two patients in group 2; all eight subsequently died. CONCLUSION. Rapid fluid resuscitation in excess of 40 mL/kg in the first hour following emergency department presentation was associated with improved survival, decreased occurrence of persistent hypovolemia, and no increase in the risk of cardiogenic pulmonary edema or adult respiratory distress syndrome in this group of pediatric patients with septic shock. 
Vigabatrin and psychosis. We report a series of 14 cases of psychosis occurring in patients with severe intractable epilepsy, following the prescription of vigabatrin, a new antiepileptic drug. Nine patients had no previous history of psychosis. In eight patients the psychosis occurred following a change in the habitual pattern of seizure activity; in four it developed after a period of seizure freedom followed by a cluster of seizures, and in the other four patients an alternating psychosis was observed. In five patients there was no clear relationship to seizure pattern. Another patient developed psychosis after taking an overdose of between eight and 12 g of vigabatrin. A further three patients, who developed psychosis following vigabatrin withdrawal, were not included in this series. The mean dose at onset of the psychosis (excluding the patient who took an overdose) was 2580 mg, and the period from initiation of therapy to the onset of psychosis varied from five days to 32 weeks (and occurred 24 hours after the overdose of vigabatrin). In all cases the psychosis resolved, but necessitated the withdrawal of vigabatrin, except in the single patient who took the overdose. The mechanism of this behaviour change is unclear, but in some instances may reflect vigabatrin's powerful anti-epileptic action. This is clearly not the case for all patients. Vigabatrin should be started with caution in patients with severe epilepsy, particularly in the presence of a previous history of psychosis, and such patients should be carefully monitored. 
Concomitant benefit of preoperative irradiation in preventing pancreas fistula formation after pancreatoduodenectomy. Preoperative irradiation improves both the resectability and curability of carcinoma of the pancreas head area and should improve patient survival. We retrospectively investigated the value of preoperative irradiation in preventing pancreatic fistula formation. Of 76 consecutive patients who underwent pancreaticojejunostomy by mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis with a stent catheter after pancreatoduodenectomy, 22 had received preoperative irradiation. The irradiation field included the anastomotic site. In two patients, accidental dislocation of the stent catheter was the apparent cause of fistula formation, but the other 21 patients in the irradiated group developed no fistula. In contrast, nine (17%) of 53 patients in the nonirradiated group developed fistulas. In the irradiated group, preoperative selenomethionine Se 75 scintigraphy revealed a cold area corresponding to the pancreas body, which was included in the irradiation field. Thus, a putative decrease in exocrine function at the pancreatic anastomotic site could explain why fistula formation was prevented by preoperative irradiation. 
Clinical application of a patient-controlled apparatus for ventricular administration of morphine in intractable pain: report of 28 cases. The authors developed a patient-controlled apparatus (L-224) for ventricular administration of pain-relieving medication and utilized it in the treatment of 28 patients with intractable pain. The initial dose of morphine hydrochloride was 1 mg, which afforded pain relief for an average of 170 hours. At an average dose of 1.8 mg, the average time of pain relief obtained was 137 hours. Therefore, they conclude that L-224 is a satisfactory apparatus for the ventricular administration of pain medication; it is patient controlled, safe, and reliable in clinical application. 
Peripheral adaptations in congestive heart failure: a review. In congestive heart failure, peripheral adaptive mechanisms play a significant and largely underestimated role. In acute heart failure, sympathetic-mediated peripheral vasoconstriction together with chronotropic and inotropic actions serves to maintain perfusion pressure and blood supply to the vital organs. In chronic heart failure, activation of the renin-angiotensin system increases peripheral vascular resistance and arterial tone and decreases arterial compliance and vasodilator capacity. Endothelium-mediated, flow-dependent vasodilation is reduced as a consequence of reduced blood flow. Deconditioning renders the blood vessels incapable of dilating in response to increased flow. Simultaneously, reduced blood flow and inactivity are induced by deconditioning, with functional and structural consequences within the skeletal muscle. Exercise performance is limited by reduced overall blood flow, reduced conductance of the feeding arteries, elevated tone of the resistance vessels, reduced vasodilator capacity, impaired dissipation of heat from the working muscle, and functional and structural changes of the skeletal muscle due to underperfusion and inactivity. The adaptive mechanisms operate at different time scales. Under therapeutic intervention, their reversibility also follows different time constants. Restoration of the vasodilator capacity of the large arteries and of the abnormalities of skeletal muscle in heart failure requires time. Vasodilation with reduced pre- and/or afterload will retard progression of the superimposed ventricular dilation and hypertrophy, and therefore retard the progress of the disease. However, restoration of the peripheral blood flow and of organ function will require time. Restoration of the vascular compliance and of the full amplitude of adaptive flow-dependent vasodilation in the large arteries requires weeks or months. Similarly, restoration of functionally and morphologically altered skeletal muscle can be expected to be reversible over a longer time period. 
Cell-surface ganglioside GD2 in the immunohistochemical detection and differential diagnosis of neuroblastoma. The expression of the disialoganglioside GD2 was analyzed in 67 solid tumors and normal tissues from children by using the GD2-specific murine monoclonal antibody 3A7 and the indirect immunoperoxidase method. GD2 was expressed in all of 28 neuroblastomas and was most abundant in stroma-poor tumors. In differentiating stroma-rich neuroblastomas, neuroblastic clusters, neurofibrils, and most ganglion-like cells were positive, whereas Schwann's-cell stroma did not express GD2. In ganglioneuromas, only a few ganglion-like cells showed GD2, whereas all other structures were negative. Scattered foci of ganglioside GD2 also were found in some non-neuronal tumors, such as rhabdomyosarcomas and osteosarcomas, but not in lymphomas, Askin tumors, or most Wilms' tumors. The monoclonal antibody 3A7 is a useful aid in the immunohistochemical diagnosis of neuroblastoma. In addition, the intense cell surface staining of neuroblastoma cells by this reagent makes it potentially useful for detecting residual neuroblastoma in bone marrow samples and lymph node biopsies. 
Objective antitumor activity of acivicin in patients with recurrent CNS malignancies: a Southwest Oncology Group trial. Acivicin (AT-125) is a glutamine antagonist with dose-limiting, schedule-dependent CNS toxicity and predictable CSF penetration after intravenous administration. Because of these properties, a trial in CNS malignancies was initiated. Thirty-two patients with recurrent or residual malignant astrocytomas were treated with AT-125. The majority of patients had glioblastoma multiforme (24) and had received prior nitrosoureas (21). The median age was 50 years, and Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) performance status was 2. The major determinant of response was based upon radiologic criteria using computed tomographic (CT) scanning and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. The tumor mass was measured in two perpendicular planes, which yielded the largest cross-sectional area. Standard solid tumor criteria for response were used. All responding patients also had a stable or tapered dose of corticosteroids with stable or improved performance status and neurologic examination. There were four objective responses (12%): one complete remission (3 1/2+ years) and three partial remissions (57, 86, and 322 days). Two patients had improvement in disease that did not meet requirements for a partial remission. Toxicity was mild and primarily consisted of nausea, vomiting, and lethargy. Two patients were removed from study due to neurotoxicity (depression and hallucinations). The strict response criteria used in this trial were not those that have been used in testing other active agents such as carmustine (BCNU). We conclude that AT-125 has objective antitumor activity in malignant astrocytomas and warrants further study. 
Lovastatin inhibits gallstone formation in the cholesterol-fed prairie dog. The efficacy of lovastatin, an inhibitor of hepatic cholesterol synthesis in the prevention of cholesterol gallstone formation, was evaluated in the prairie dog model. Two groups of animals were maintained on either nonlithogenic or 1.2% cholesterol-enriched chow for 21 days. Seven of the animals in each group received lovastatin, and the remaining six received only distilled water. All of the cholesterol-fed/water-treated animals had crystals and 83% had gallstones, but none of the cholesterol-fed/lovastatin-treated animals had gallstones and only three had microscopic crystals. These data indicate that lovastatin inhibits cholesterol gallstone formation in a diet-induced model of gallstone disease. 
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia with t(4;11) translocation after osteogenic sarcoma. The authors report a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with t(4;11) (q21;q23) occurring 9 months after treatment of osteogenic sarcoma. Cell surface marker and molecular analyses suggest early B lineage involvement. This is the first report, to the knowledge of the authors, of t(4;11) ALL arising after an osteogenic sarcoma. The observations of the authors support the possibility of a causal relationship between exposure to carcinogens and the occurrence of leukemia with t(4;11). 
Experimental hyperthermia: protective effect of oxygen carrying fluorocarbon and crystalloids intraperitoneally. The treatment of hyperthermia produced by passive warming was studied in anesthetized rats weighing 250-300 grams. In the first set of seven experiments, the authors found that venous blood oxygen fell as core temperature rose. Intraperitoneal injection of 20 ml of the oxygen carrying fluorocarbon (perfluorotributylamine, FC-43) emulsion in three of the animals shifted the curve to the right improving venous oxygen content (p less than 0.1). In the second series of experiments, a catheter was placed in the carotid artery. This catheter was attached to a pressure transducer for continuous recording of blood pressure and heart rate. Periodic blood samples were removed for measurement of blood gases, pH, and lactate. Four of the animals received 20 ml of isotonic saline, three received 20 ml of FC-43 emulsion both given intraperitoneally, and four served as controls. In the control group, there was an increase in systolic blood pressure and heart rate which peaked at a colon temperature of 42 degrees C, followed by cardiovascular collapse and death around 43 degrees C. Arterial PO2 (corrected for temperature) remained relatively constant up to 42 degrees C, and then fell. The arterial PCO2 rose sharply when the core temperature exceeded 43 degrees C. Arterial lactate content began to increase at 42 degrees C and above 43 degrees C was 2.5 fold elevated. Isotonic saline provided circulatory support but did not change the hypoxia or mixed acidosis from CO2 and lactate above 43 degrees C. FC-43 emulsion decreased hypoxia and improved circulatory performance but was associated with a mild respiratory alkalosis as arterial PCO2 fell. 
Planned delayed nephrectomy after ethanol embolization of renal carcinoma. Planned delayed nephrectomy after preoperative ethanol infarction was done in 6 patients with renal carcinoma. Three patients had intracaval extension of tumor, 2 had renal vein but no vena caval extension and 1 had no renal vein or vena caval involvement. Nephrectomy was delayed 22 to 44 days after embolization. In the patients with inferior vena caval extension shrinkage of tumor thrombus after embolization allowed for easier surgical resection. Furthermore, delay of nephrectomy after preoperative infarction was of value in improving the clinical status of high risk patients. 
Surgical management of essential blepharospasm. We have reviewed the surgical management of essential blepharospasm over the last 15 years, comparing the results from facial nerve avulsion with those from orbicularis muscle stripping. After facial nerve avulsion 50% of patients remained free of troublesome spasm for 15 months after surgery, but only 25% remained so for more than two years. Following orbicularis oculi myectomy 50% of patients were free of troublesome spasms for 30 months after surgery and 55% of patients had relief from spasm for more than two years. Secondary effects of the two procedures are compared and are found to be fewer after orbicularis myectomy. There were no major complications after either form of surgery. Botulinum toxin is the treatment of first choice for this condition. If this becomes ineffective or inconvenient, surgical treatment is warranted and should not be deferred for fear of severe side effects of treatment, since these are rare. Protractor myectomy gives longer relief from blepharospasm than facial nerve avulsion and has fewer complications. However, it is technically difficult, time consuming, and has greater peroperative morbidity. Facial nerve avulsion may therefore still have a role in selected patients. 
Recent trends in acute care hospital utilization in Ontario for diseases of the circulatory system. OBJECTIVE: To describe trends in the use of acute care hospital services for diseases of the circulatory system in Ontario. DESIGN: Observational study. DATA EXTRACTION: Information on diagnoses, procedures and demographic characteristics was obtained from routinely collected computerized abstracts of separations from all acute care hospitals in Ontario during 1979-80, 1983-84 and 1988-89. The data were combined with population estimates to calculate overall separation rates and rates specific for age, diagnosis and procedure. Resource intensity weights were used to estimate changes in resource use. MAIN RESULTS: The overall separation rate increased by 3% and the resource-intensity-weighted separation rate by 12% from 1979-80 to 1988-89. The overall medical separation rate increased by 2%, whereas the surgical rate increased by 12%. The surgical separation rate increased among patients 55 to 79 years of age but decreased in all the other adult age groups. The separation rates for coronary artery bypass surgery and cardiac valve surgery increased rapidly among patients 65 years of age or older. The medical separation rate decreased for patients of all ages except those less than 5 years and those 80 years or more. The medical separation rates decreased by less than 1% for diagnoses related to ischemic heart disease (IHD) and increased dramatically for coronary artery revascularization. CONCLUSIONS: The increasing elderly population has not resulted in large increases in acute care hospital utilization for diseases of the circulatory system. The impact of an aging population has been balanced by decreased utilization rates in the younger groups. The intensity of hospital care has risen primarily because of increases in surgical rates, especially in the elderly population. The large decrease in the rate of death from IHD over the past two decades has not been associated with similar decreases in acute care hospital utilization for this disorder. 
Surgical management of diffuse subaortic stenosis: an integrated approach. An integrated approach to the surgical management of diffuse subaortic stenosis has been designed to provide adequate relief of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction whatever the anatomical features encountered at operation. This approach was used in 22 patients with tunnel subaortic stenosis (19 patients) or diffuse hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (3 patients). The obstructive tissue was resected through an aortoseptal approach. In 18 patients, associated hypoplasia of the aortic orifice necessitated aortic valve replacement using the Konno procedure; in 4 patients with a normal-sized aortic orifice, the native aortic valve was preserved. There were two early deaths and one late death (all after a Konno operation). Long-term adequate relief of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction was achieved in all survivors. Operation for diffuse subaortic stenosis should be performed with two main goals: (1) to obtain complete relief of the left ventricular outflow tract obstruction by the appropriate procedure and (2) to preserve the native aortic valve whenever possible, particularly in young patients. 
Enteral hyperalimentation with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion improved severe diarrhea in poorly controlled diabetic patient. Little is known about effective treatment for severe diarrhea in the insulin-dependent diabetic patient. A 41-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of hyperglycemia and dysuria. She had stopped insulin self-injection therapy for 2 years and diarrhea had become worse, resulting in malnutrition. Following enteral alimentation by elemental diet (ED) with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII), frequency of diarrhea remarkably decreased and general nutritional condition was improved. At the first step, the patient was given 600 kcal/d ED through the tube sustained in the jejunum. Total calorie intake for 24 hours was gradually increased to the level of 2400 kcal/d and this therapy continued for 5 months. During this period, blood glucose level was kept in almost normal range (between 100 and 200 mg/dL) through the continuous insulin infusion of regular insulin (1.0-1.5 U/h). Thereafter, general conditions were improved and frequency of diarrhea gradually decreased. When this treatment was stopped, watery diarrhea, steatorrhea, and hypoalbuminemia completely disappeared and she gained 12 kg of body weight. Furthermore, spontaneous urination appeared following this treatment. This case suggests that the enteral hyperalimentation combined with strict control of blood glucose, using the CSII, may be an effective therapy for such severe diarrhea with malnutrition in diabetes. 
Percutaneous coronary angioscopy in patients with restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioscopy with a flexible steerable microangioscope was performed in five patients undergoing repeat angioplasty. Recurrent lesions were assessed by angioscopy before and after the angioplasty procedure. The most common surface morphology observed in these restenosis lesions was that of white unpigmented lesions consistent with the proliferation of fibrous tissue. Also noted during angioscopy was the presence or absence of thrombus or dissection in association with the lesions either before or after angioplasty. Filmy wisps of tissue, presumably intimal flaps, were commonly visualized after angioplasty. There were no complications related to angioscopy or angioplasty in these patients. The surface morphology of restenosis lesions appears to be different from that of primary atherosclerotic lesions. The lesions in these five patients with restenosis were generally white and fibrotic in appearance, as opposed to the pigmented yellow to yellow-brown lesions commonly seen in undilated atherosclerotic lesions. It was also noted that the presence of intracoronary thrombus was strongly associated with the clinical syndrome of unstable angina. These findings support the hypothesis that restenosis lesions are the result of a reparative process consisting of smooth muscle cell proliferation and fibrosis. 
Cervical cancer screening: who is not screened and why? BACKGROUND: The decline in death rates from cervical cancer in the United States has been widely attributed to the use of Papanicolaou (Pap) smears for early detection of cervical cancer. METHODS: Pap smear screening rates, beliefs about appropriate screening intervals and factors affecting screening were examined using 1987 National Health Interview Survey data. RESULTS: Results indicate that through age 69, Blacks are screened at similar or higher rates than Whites. Hispanics, particularly those speaking only or mostly Spanish, are least likely to have received a Pap smear within the last three years. Of women who had never heard of or never had a Pap smear, nearly 80 percent reported contact with a medical practitioner in the past two years, while more than 90 percent reported a contact in the past five years. Overall, the most frequently reported reason for not having a recent Pap smear was procrastinating or not believing it was necessary. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, in developing screening programs, Hispanics, particularly Spanish speakers, must be targeted. In addition, educational programs should target unscreened women who forego the test due to underestimating its importance, procrastination, or because their medical care provider did not suggest the procedure. Women must be intensively educated that Pap smears should be scheduled routinely to detect asymptomatic cervical cancer. 
Alcoholic liver disease in heterozygotes of mutant and normal aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 genes. To clarify the pathogenetic role of acetaldehyde in the development of alcoholic liver disease, genotyping of aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 genes was performed and the clinical features of the alcoholic liver disease patients with different genotypes were compared. Genotyping of aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 was performed in 47 patients with alcoholic liver disease using the polymerase chain reaction and slot-blot hybridization. Of the 47 patients with alcoholic liver disease, 40 were homozygous for the normal aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 gene and the remaining seven cases were heterozygous for the normal and mutant aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 genes. No homozygote was found for the mutant aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 genes. Daily alcohol intake was less than 100 gm in all heterozygotes without relation to the type of alcoholic liver disease. On the other hand, all but four patients homozygotic for the normal aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 gene drank more than 100 gm alcohol/day. The mean daily alcohol intake in the heterozygotes was significantly lower than that in the normal homozygotes. The incidence of alcoholic fibrosis tended to be lower in the heterozygotes than in the normal homozygotes (14.2% vs. 52.5%). On the other hand, the incidence of alcoholic hepatitis and/or cirrhosis tended to be higher in the heterozygotes than in the normal homozygotes. These results indicate that alcoholic liver disease develops even with moderate amounts of alcohol intake in heterozygotes of the aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 genes, in which acetaldehyde metabolism in the liver is impaired and liver damage in the heterozygotes is more severe than that in the normal homozygotes, suggesting that habitual drinkers who are heterozygotes of the aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 genes may be at high risk for alcoholic liver disease. 
Comparative immunohistochemical staining for desmin and muscle-specific actin. A study of 576 cases. Muscle-specific actin (MSA) and desmin are considered to be sensitive and specific markers for muscle differentiation. The authors compared staining patterns for these markers in 576 samples of normal, reactive, and neoplastic tissues. The standard avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex technique was performed with the use of two commercial antibodies against MSA (HHF35; Enzo Biochemical, Inc., New York, NY) and desmin (DER11; DAKO Corporation, Santa Barbara, CA), respectively, on consecutive paraffin-embedded tissue sections from these cases. Both MSA and desmin were found in all 80 normal muscle samples. Although MSA appeared diffusely in all vascular smooth muscle samples, desmin was demonstrated focally in vascular smooth muscle cells in 100 of 196 samples. MSA but not desmin always was found in myoepithelial cells (25 samples), pericytes (286 samples), and decidual cells (7 samples). Among 76 cases of myofibroblast-containing lesions, 14 and 54 were found to have desmin and MSA, respectively. MSA and desmin were found in 4 of 4 cardiac rhabdomyomas, 34 of 34 rhabdomyosarcomas, and 5 of 6 leiomyomas. Among 22 leiomyosarcomas, 7 displayed either MSA or desmin and 7 showed both markers. In general, more tumor cells showed staining for MSA than desmin, but the reverse was true in some cases. Tissue fixed in Zenker's solution seemed to show a significant decrease in MSA immunoreactivity, but no significant change for desmin staining was observed. None of the 154 normal tissues and 22 benign nonmyogenic tumors expressed MSA or desmin. Among 133 malignant nonmyogenic tumors, positive staining for both desmin and MSA was found in 3 of 8 cases of glioblastoma multiforme, 1 of 10 malignant schwannomas, and 1 of 14 malignant fibrous histiocytomas; staining for only MSA was found in 3 of 14 malignant fibrous histiocytomas, 1 of 10 malignant schwannomas, 6 of 6 fibromatoses, 1 of 1 mammary myofibroblastoma, and 1 of 7 malignant mesotheliomas; and staining for desmin only was seen in 1 of 7 malignant mesotheliomas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Dementia. Age-dependent incidence, prevalence, and mortality in the old old. Age has been reported as a strong risk factor for dementia. Supporting data have been derived mainly from prevalence studies, which had varied criteria and sample compositions that precluded direct comparisons, especially among those aged 85 years and older. Data regarding rates of dementia are presented based on 85 incident cases in the Bronx (NY) Aging Study, a prospective study of 488 initially nondemented, old old persons (mean age on entry, 79 years). Overall, the incidence rate over 8 years of follow-up for all-cause dementia was 3.4 per 100 per year (43% Alzheimer's disease, 30% mixed Alzheimer's and vascular, and 27% other). Incidence rose significantly, irrespective of gender, as subjects were followed up through three age intervals--ages 75 to 79 years (1.3/100 per year), 80 to 84 years (3.5), and 85 years and older (6.0). The comparable age-associated prevalence rates of dementia were 3.7%, 12.2%, and 23.9%, respectively, with an overall period prevalence of 22.8%. Additionally, there was a threefold greater mortality associated with dementia. In conclusion, despite the shortened life expectancy of demented persons, dementia is a highly prevalent condition among those aged 85 years and older. Public policy attention is warranted, since this group is the fastest growing population subgroup. 
123I-iodoamphetamine SPECT brain imaging in alternating hemiplegia. Alternating hemiplegia of childhood is an unusual disorder characterized by early onset (occurring before 18 months of age); repeated attacks of hemiplegia involving both sides of the body; other paroxysmal phenomena, such as tonic stiffening, dystonic posturing, choreoathetoid movements, ocular motor abnormalities, and autonomic disturbances, in association with bouts of hemiplegia or occurring independently; and evidence of mental or neurologic deficits. A girl was examined because of left hemiplegia at the age of 16 months. The patient had begun exhibiting episodes of alternating hemiplegia at approximately 4 months of age. They consisted of tonic stiffening and dystonia of the right or left extremities, lasting from 30 min to several hours and followed by residual hemiparesis. They were invariably accompanied by ocular motor abnormalities. Magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, and angiography all were normal. Single proton emission computed tomography brain images during an acute episode of right hemiplegia demonstrated hypoperfusion of the left cerebral hemisphere. Following improvement of the hemiplegia, the patient was re-evaluated. The uptake of the radiotracer in the left hemisphere was increased. The scan did not demonstrate significant asymmetry in cerebral perfusion. 
Unimpinged and impinged anterior cruciate ligament grafts: MR signal intensity measurements. Regionalized magnetic resonance (MR) signal intensities were quantitatively measured in impinged and unimpinged anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) grafts. Images were obtained with a 1.5-T imager, and signal intensity was measured in the proximal, middle, and distal thirds of the graft. In 15 unimpinged ACL grafts, the signal intensity remained low and did not vary during the 1st year of graft implantation (45 images). In contrast, 17 impinged ACL grafts showed an increase in signal intensity in the distal two-thirds of the graft that persisted 1-3 years after implantation (P less than .001). Unimpinged grafts were placed in tibial tunnels posterior and parallel to the slope of the intercondylar roof. Reconstructions with anterior tibial tunnels resulted in graft impingement that caused increases in graft signal intensity. This increase demonstrates a clear association between surgical technique and the subsequent MR appearance of the graft. 
Multiple drug therapy in the treatment of essential hypertension. Treatment for high blood pressure is aimed to prevent the excess morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension by reducing the blood pressure to acceptable levels and by improving the cardiovascular risk status. Antihypertensive medications can be selected that not only reduce blood pressure but also have beneficial effects in concomitant illness and neutral or positive effects on other cardiovascular risk factors. Multiple drug therapy offers not only the possibility of greater therapeutic efficacy than that achieved with single agents but also the possibility of reduced incidence of side effects through complementary actions. The antihypertensive regimen should be simple and acceptable to the patient to promote compliance. Nurses, along with physicians, have an integral role in the long-term management of hypertensive patients through education, counsel, and follow-up for blood pressure control and health promotion. 
Screening dyspepsia by serology to Helicobacter pylori. Owing to limited endoscopy resources, various screening strategies for endoscopy have been proposed. Helicobacter pylori can be detected with high sensitivity and specificity by serology, and therefore we assessed the effects on diagnostic accuracy and endoscopic workload of a policy of screening clinic patients with dyspepsia before endoscopy by a strategy based on age, Helicobacter pylori serology, and use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 1153 patients were studied, of whom 842 were of known histological H pylori status (histology group) and 293 had serum assessed prospectively by in-house and commercial ELISAs for detection of IgG antibodies to H pylori. Overall, the screening strategy would have reduced endoscopy workload by 23.3% (95% confidence interval 20.9-25.8%) and would have had a sensitivity for detection of peptic ulcer of 97.4% (94.5-99.1%). No peptic ulcer or malignant disease was missed in the patients studied prospectively, but 6 of 192 peptic ulcers in the histology group would have been missed. A policy of screening young dyspeptic patients for H pylori by serology is more sensitive than symptom-based screening strategies, and may have an important role in reducing endoscopy workload. 
Failure of dithiothreitol and pronase to reveal a false-positive cryptococcal antigen determination in cerebrospinal fluid. A patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and a serum rheumatoid factor (RF) of 1:1,280 had a positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) latex agglutination test (LAT) for cryptococcal antigen, in culture-negative, India-ink-negative CSF. Pretreatment of the sample of CSF with 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME) ablated the antigen titer and established the presence of a false-positive LAT, whereas CSF pretreated with dithiothreitol (DTT) and pronase continued to yield a false-positive result. The differing ability of pronase, DTT, and 2-ME to eliminate interfering substances from CSF has not been previously described. Moreover, because RF is unlikely to cross the blood-brain barrier, the authors postulated that malignant disease was responsible for the patient's false-positive LAT in CSF. Hence, the authors report the case to emphasize that false-positive LAT results in CSF are unlikely to be produced by RF and to underscore the benefit of using enzymatic and sulfhydryl-reducing agents when the validity of the initial test results are in doubt. Such a procedure will optimize the chances of accurately identifying false-positive LAT results in CSF. 
Effects of altered PaO2 and PaCO2 on left ventricular function and coronary hemodynamics in sheep. The effects of acute changes in arterial carbon dioxide and oxygen tension, produced by altering the inspired gas mixtures while maintaining constant-volume intermittent positive pressure ventilation, on global function, regional left ventricular function, and coronary hemodynamics were studied in eight sheep during halothane anesthesia. Hypercapnia (Paco2, 73.5 +/- 2.3 mm Hg, mean +/- SD) increased heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output but decreased systolic shortening in the base of the left ventricle. Hypocapnia (PaO2, 24 +/- 1.5 mm Hg) decreased cardiac output and coronary flow below levels seen with hypercapnia but not below levels seen with normocapnia. Systolic shortening decreased in both apical and basal regions, and left ventricular relaxation was impaired as evidenced by a reduction of the nadir of LV dP/dt. Hypoxemia (PaO2, 39 +/- 1.5 mm Hg) elicited a hyperdynamic response of the circulation, increased coronary blood flow, and exhausted the coronary flow reserve. Neither changes in PaCO2 nor changes in PaO2 caused postsystolic shortening, although hypercapnia caused nonuniformity of contraction in the left ventricle. Thus, marked alterations in oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions do not cause left ventricular dysfunction, even though moderate hypoxia reduces the coronary flow reserve. 
Estimation of morbid risk and age at onset with missing information. Investigators of genetic illnesses are currently employing life-table techniques to estimate the lifetime risk of disease and the age-at-onset distribution. This methodology assumes that onset ages are known for affected individuals and that censoring ages are known for unaffected individuals. We extend these methods to incorporate affected individuals with unknown onset ages and unaffected persons with unknown censoring ages and illustrate how conventional life-table methods can produce seriously biased estimates, particularly of lifetime risk. The methodology is not restricted to genetic illnesses and can be applied to more complex illnesses with unknown etiology. We present an example for Huntington disease, which is generally assumed to be a Mendelian autosomal dominant disease, yielding estimates of lifetime risk of .503 +/- .70 and mean onset age of 47.7 +/- 3.1 years for offspring with a single affected parent. When conventional life-table techniques are employed, these estimates are .238 +/- .032 and 43.2 +/- 2.2. 
A human Lactobacillus strain (Lactobacillus casei sp strain GG) promotes recovery from acute diarrhea in children. To determine the effect of a human Lactobacillus strain (Lactobacillus casei sp strain GG, Gefilac) on recovery from acute diarrhea (82% rotavirus), 71 well-nourished children between 4 and 45 months of age were studied. After oral rehydration, the patients randomly received either Lactobacillus GG-fermented milk product, 125 g (10(10-11) colony-forming units) twice daily (group 1); Lactobacillus GG freeze-dried powder, one dose (10(10-11) colony-forming units) twice daily (group 2); or a placebo, a pasteurized yogurt (group 3) 125 g twice daily; each diet was given for 5 days, in addition to normal full diet otherwise free of fermented dairy products. The mean (SD) duration of diarrhea after commencing the therapy was significantly shorter in group 1 (1.4 [0.8] days) and in group 2 (1.4 [0.8] days) than in group 3 (2.4 [1.1] days); F = 8.70, P less than 0.001. After rehydration, each dietary group maintained a positive weight trend. The urinary lactulose-mannitol recovery ratios (means [95% confidence intervals]) on admission were 0.09 (0.03, 0.24) in group 1, 0.12 (0.07, 0.22) in group 2, and 0.08 (0.04, 0.18) in group 3; no significant alterations in intestinal permeability were observed at retesting after 2 days of realimentation. The result indicates that early nutritional repletion after rehydration causes no mucosal disruption and is beneficial for recovery from diarrhea. It is further suggested that Lactobacillus GG in the form of fermented milk or freeze-dried powder is effective in shortening the course of acute diarrhea. 
The influence of osteophytes and aortic calcification on spinal mineral density in postmenopausal women. The assessment of vertebral bone mineral density (BMD) in the anterio-posterior projection has become widely used in the management and prevention of osteoporosis. Recently, it has been demonstrated that the presence of spinal osteophytes has a major impact on measured BMD in men, thus casting doubt on the value of these BMD measurements. We have assessed the impact of osteophytic and aortic calcification on spinal and femoral BMD measurements in 130 normal postmenopausal women, aged 45-71 yr. Lateral lumbar spine radiographs were obtained in all subjects and graded separately (0-3) for osteophytes and aortic calcification. Both forms of calcification increased with age, and BMD of all sites was correlated positively with body weight and negatively with age. The correlation coefficients between BMD and calcification scores were nonsignificant. Multiple regression analysis, including weight, age, and calcification scores, demonstrated a small but significant effect of osteophyte score on lumbar BMD (partial r2 = 0.04; P = 0.012) and a similar trend for Ward's triangle and the trochanteric region (partial r2 = 0.02; P less than 0.06). The aortic calcification score remained nonsignificant. It is concluded that the influence of spinal osteophytes on lumbar BMD in postmenopausal women is substantially less than that in men and is, therefore, unlikely to interfere with BMD estimation in most subjects. The relationship between proximal femoral BMD and osteophyte score suggests a real relationship between skeletal density and degenerative joint disease, as has been demonstrated by others. 
Organ-specific cardiac antibodies: serological markers for systemic hypertension in autoimmune polyendocrinopathy. Circulating organ-specific autoantibodies are serological markers of destruction or impairment of the relevant endocrine tissue cells and may be associated with abnormal hormone levels with or without clinical evidence of overt disease. We sought organ-specific cardiac antibodies in patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy because of increasing evidence that the heart has endocrine characteristics (secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide [ANP] and other peptide hormones). Serum samples from 166 patients with polyendocrinopathy, 80 with autoimmunity confined to one gland, and 200 healthy blood donors were tested for these antibodies by means of immunofluorescence on human heart. Skeletal muscle was used to identify cross-reacting antibodies. Organ-specific cardiac antibodies were detected in significantly more of the patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy (28 [17%]) than of those with autoimmunity confined to one gland (1 [1%]) or of normal subjects (7 [3.5%]; p = 0.0001). Among the patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy, the prevalence of systemic hypertension was higher in those with cardiac autoantibodies than in those without (5/28 [18%] vs 2/80 [3%]; p = 0.01); the same was true for a family history of hypertension (11 [42%] vs 5 [7%]; p = 0.0001). There were no significant differences in mean basal or stimulated ANP concentrations between patients with or without antibodies or between patients and controls. 5 of the 22 antibody-positive patients had ANP concentrations outside the normal range, but these disturbances were not associated with systemic hypertension or a family history of the disorder. Patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy can have organ-specific cardiac antibodies, which may represent novel serological markers for an autoimmune form of systemic hypertension in the absence of overt cardiac disease. 
Circadian blood pressure pattern in patients with treated hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensives is an important determinant of prognosis. In the present study 45 patients with treated essential hypertension were divided into two groups: 23 patients had normal left ventricular dimension and 22 patients had echocardiographic signs of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). All patients were adequately treated during daytime, but ambulatory blood pressure monitoring showed a distinct abnormal pattern in the LVH group characterized by a lack of blood pressure reduction during the night; 16 of 22 patients with LVH had no blood pressure decline during the night, whereas 17 of 23 patients without hypertrophy showed this reduction (P less than 0.01). In conclusion, patients with hypertension and LVH often reveal a lack of blood pressure decline during the night, which may be the reason for the development of left ventricular hypertrophy (and thus should be managed by a different circadian blood pressure therapy) or which may be the consequence of progressive structural changes in the resistance vessels, along with the development of left ventricular hypertrophy. It is suggested that patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy should have ambulatory twenty-four hour blood pressure monitoring. 
A transformation-incompetent, nuclear antigen 2-deleted Epstein-Barr virus associated with replicative infection. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) obtained directly from the oropharynx was used to detect viral DNA deleted for the EBV nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA2)-encoding gene that is essential for lymphocyte transformation. By polymerase chain reaction analysis, the deletion was found in virus from 5 of 33 healthy adult donors and 11 of 12 patients with concurrent human immunodeficiency virus infection. Lymphoblastoid cell lines that produce standard transforming EBV also harbored EBNA2-deleted virus in cells permissive of EBV replication. In vitro infectivity studies indicated that the DNA is packaged and transmissible, with biologic properties similar to those of a laboratory mutant, P3HR-1, which also lacks the EBNA2 gene. These findings, obtained from productively infected cell systems, provide evidence for the existence in nature of a transformation-incompetent EBV variant that may facilitate EBV persistence and the emergence of reactivation diseases. 
Dilated cardiomyopathy with mitral regurgitation: decreased survival despite a low frequency of left ventricular thrombus. Ninety-one patients with dilated cardiomyopathy were studied by two-dimensional, pulsed, and color Doppler echocardiography (1) to detect and quantify mitral regurgitation (MR), (2) to record apical flow velocities in systole and diastole, and (3) to detect the presence of left ventricular thrombi. MR was detected in 57% of the patients and thrombi were present in 40%, but the occurrence of both MR and thrombus was rare (8%). Apical flow velocity was significantly higher throughout the cardiac cycle in the group with MR (diastole 15 +/- 7 vs 9 +/- 7 cm/sec; systole 29 +/- 12 vs 16 +/- 13 cm/sec; p less than 0.001 for both), accounting for the rarity of thrombi in this group. Follow-up data on 89% of the patients showed markedly decreased survival in the group with MR (22% vs 60% at 32 +/- 6 months, p less than 0.005), and this was evident even in patients with mild MR. Thus although MR is a noninvasively obtainable marker of a large subgroup of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy "protected" from left ventricular thrombus formation, it is a sensitive marker of decreased survival. 
Increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor number in chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Production of the antiviral cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha is increased in chronic hepatitis B virus infection, and clinical studies of tumor necrosis factor-alpha have indicated a proviral effect at higher doses. To determine whether this might be related to abnormal cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor expression, binding characteristics of cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor on peripheral blood mononuclear cells in chronic hepatitis B virus carriers were studied using radioiodinated recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha. The specific binding curves generated were analyzed according to the method of Scatchard to determine cell surface receptor numbers and dissociation constants. A single class of cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets. The median number (range) of cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from controls (n = 11), chronic hepatitis B virus patients seropositive for hepatitis B virus DNA (n = 8) and seronegative for hepatitis B virus DNA (n = 8) were 2,329 (range = 1,538 to 3,133), 3,375 (range = 2,300 to 6,718) (p less than 0.01) and 3,113 (range = 2,229 to 5,246) (p less than 0.05) sites/cell, respectively. They all had similar dissociation constants of 8.4 x 10(-10) mol/L (range = 4.1 to 16.9), respectively. Further dissection of the peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed that this increase in cell surface receptor number was confined to the monocyte fraction (p less than 0.01). Plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels in five patients with increased monocyte cell surface tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor numbers were also elevated. 
Enterococcal endocarditis: a comparison of prosthetic and native valve disease. Between 1973 and 1987, 36 patients with 41 episodes of enterococcal endocarditis were seen at our institution. There were 22 episodes of native valve endocarditis (NVE) and 19 episodes of prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE). The overall mortality before completion of therapy was 15% (18% due to NVE and 11% due to PVE). Among patients with NVE, involvement of the aortic valve was significantly associated with death or complicated illness (defined as the need for valve replacement before completion of antibiotic therapy or relapse of endocarditis after completion of therapy). Among patients who survived episodes of PVE, 69% were cured without surgical intervention. Gentamicin was administered in combination with a penicillin or vancomycin in the majority of episodes (mean duration of therapy with aminoglycosides: 5 weeks). Renal dysfunction occurred in 44% of patients who received gentamicin and occurred more frequently in patients with elevated serum creatinine levels before treatment. Our results suggest that enterococcal PVE can often be successfully treated with antibiotics alone, and they confirm the efficacy of gentamicin when it is administered in combination with cell wall-active agents for the treatment of endocarditis due to enterococci that lack high-level resistance to this agent. 
Gastric emptying in human disease states. The application of new radioisotope methods in external in vivo scanning has increased our knowledge of how disease and treatment can effect gastric emptying (GE). Solids leave the stomach more slowly than liquids, and conditions causing gastroparesis affect solids before liquids. Gastric mucosal abnormalities and their treatment can affect GE. Diseases of the gastric musculature, including the inflammatory and endocrine myopathies, muscular dystrophies, and infiltrative disorders, can result in significant gastroparesis. Acute and chronic neuropathy may both affect gastric emptying. The latter neuropathies are now the subject of intense investigation with new prokinetic drugs. Finally, abnormal GE may be a major clinical feature of certain severe psychiatric disorders. 
Prognosis after initial recurrence of cutaneous melanoma. We reviewed 231 patients who developed recurrent disease 1 to 218 months after surgical therapy for clinical stage I cutaneous melanoma. Metastatic lesions amenable to surgery, including visceral recurrences, were resected. Adjuvant systemic chemotherapy/immunotherapy or regional hyperthermic perfusion was added in patients with unresected disease. Local irradiation was employed for nonresectable brain or other isolated symptomatic metastases. The overall 5-year survival rate after initial recurrence was 36%. In patients with soft tissue or nodal recurrence, the 5-year survival rates were 49% and 38%, respectively; six (11%) of 53 patients whose initial recurrence was in a visceral organ achieved prolonged remission. Primary lesion anatomic site, thickness, pathologic type, and interval from initial therapy to recurrence were unrelated to survival. Significant prognostic factors included the site of initial metastasis, stage of primary disease, and the successful complete eradication of gross disease by surgical excision or intensive chemotherapy. 
Paratesticular rhabdomyosarcoma: results of therapy in 18 cases. The management of paratesticular rhabdomyosarcoma has evolved more slowly than that for testicular germ cell tumors, mainly due to its lower incidence and the lack of standardized treatment protocols. With gradual refinements in staging and therapy the prognosis has improved. Between 1960 and 1988, 18 patients 2 to 18 years old were treated at the Children's Hospital. Management consisted of inguinal orchiectomy, staging evaluation and retroperitoneal lymph node dissection, followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy according to the stage of the disease. In 11 patients (61%) the disease was confined to the scrotum, while 7 presented with spread to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes, including 3 children with more distant metastases. Histological study revealed predominantly embryonal characteristics except for 1 alveolar cell type. Chemotherapy consisted of actinomycin D in 2 patients, vincristine, actinomycin D and cyclophosphamide in 2, pulse vincristine, actinomycin D and cyclophosphamide in 10, and doxorubicin plus vincristine, actinomycin D and cyclophosphamide in 4. A total of 17 patients remain free of disease (median followup 4 years) with 1 death. The actuarial survival without relapse and over-all survival rate are 89 and 94%, respectively. We conclude that paratesticular rhabdomyosarcoma represents a favorable subgroup of rhabdomyosarcoma. 
Neurotoxicity of intraventricularly administered alpha-interferon for leptomeningeal disease. Nine patients with leptomeningeal disease are reported who were treated with intraventricular alpha-interferon (alpha-IFN). In seven of these patients, a progressive vegetative state developed during treatment. The patients became unresponsive to verbal commands but opened their eyes with auditory or tactile stimulation. It took an average of 3 weeks for these patients to become verbally responsive after treatment was discontinued. Electroencephalographic findings showed evidence of irritative involvement of the deep midline nuclei in 80% of patients. Periventricular white matter changes developed during treatment in three of six patients who underwent computed tomographic scans. All patients with this severe neurotoxicity received whole-brain irradiation before treatment. Possible mechanisms for the development of this neurotoxic syndrome are discussed. The neurotoxicity of alpha-IFN and brain irradiation may be additive, suggesting a cautious approach when using this combination for treatment. 
Acoustic-distortion products: separation of sensory from neural dysfunction in sensorineural hearing loss in human beings and rabbits. Because distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) provide a noninvasive measure of outer hair-cell (OHC) activity, they should provide a unique and sensitive indicator of the effects of agents that damage hearing. Using DPOAE methods, the present study was designed to assess the relative contributions of the cochlea's outer hair cells to some common sensorineural diseases, including Meniere's disease, acoustic neuroma, and noise-induced, hereditary, and sudden idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss. Parallel evaluations of DPOAEs were performed under essentially identical conditions in rabbit models of several of the human disorders, including noise-induced hearing loss, endolymphatic hydrops, and cochlear neurectomy. Animal studies were performed to assess the proficiency of DPOAEs to track a developing sensorineural deficit as well as to compare patterns of DPOAE dysfunction between clinical and experimental forms of peripheral hearing loss. Detailed measures of DPOAEs were collected in the stimulus-frequency and intensity domains as "audiograms" and response/growth or input/output functions, respectively. The outcome of analyses of both human beings and animals supported the notion that DPOAE testing is sensitive to sensory-cell disease. Thus, in combination with conventional audiometry, DPOAE measures permit a distinction between the relative contribution sensory and neural components of the cochlea make to hearing deficits. 
Usefulness of high-frequency analysis of signal-averaged surface electrocardiograms in acute myocardial infarction before and after coronary thrombolysis for assessing coronary reperfusion. The incidence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram before and after coronary thrombolysis was studied in 54 patients with an acute myocardial infarction of less than or equal to 5 hours' duration and with an angiographically documented total occlusion of the infarct-related coronary artery on admission. A significant (p = 0.038) 50% relative reduction in the incidence of late potentials was observed in the group of 35 patients who underwent reperfusion: from 16 of 35 (46%) before to 8 of 35 (23%) at 120 minutes after the start of thrombolytic treatment. No significant reduction was seen in the 19 patients in whom thrombolysis was unsuccessful: from 8 of 19 (42%) before to 7 of 19 (37%) afterward. Despite successful recanalization, late potentials persisted or newly developed after thrombolytic therapy in 8 of 54 patients (15%). It is concluded that successful thrombolysis reduces the incidence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram but that the sensitivity and specificity of this finding are not high enough to allow reliable monitoring of coronary reperfusion at the bedside. 
Localized cytosolic domains of the erythropoietin receptor regulate growth signaling and down-modulate responsiveness to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Erythrocyte development in mammals depends in part upon the interaction of the glycopeptide hormone erythropoietin (EPO) with cell surface receptors on committed erythroid progenitor cells. Both this factor and an EPO receptor polypeptide previously have been cloned, yet little is presently understood concerning molecular mechanisms of receptor activation and signal transduction. To identify cytosolic receptor domains necessary for signaling, we have compared the activities of a series of deletionally mutated EPO receptor constructs by their expression in interleukin 3-dependent, myeloid FDC-P1 cells. EPO-induced growth was transduced efficiently in these cells by the full-length receptor (507 amino acids), and no measurable loss in activity resulted from the deletion of up to 111 carboxyl-terminal residues. In contrast, the deletion of 44 additional residues led to a dramatic loss (86.3% +/- 7.8%; mean +/- SD) in the ability of this receptor to mediate EPO-induced growth, thus indicating that residues between Gly-352 and Met-396 constitute a functionally critical cytosolic subdomain. Interestingly, the expression of full-length EPO receptors in FDC-P1 cells also led to a selective inhibition of normal proliferative responsiveness to the alternative hematopoietic factor granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Moreover, this inhibition was progressively reversed in forms of the EPO receptor in which distal cytosolic residues were sequentially deleted. These results suggest that EPO receptors normally may trans-modulate components in the pathway of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-induced proliferation and that this down-modulation, as exerted by intact EPO receptors, may play a role in promoting erythroid commitment during myeloid blood cell development. 
Parenteral drug products containing aluminum as an ingredient or a contaminant: response to Food and Drug Administration notice of intent and request for information. ASCN/A.S.P.E.N. Working Group on Standards for Aluminum Content of Parenteral Nutrition Solutions. Aluminum remains a significant contaminant of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) solutions and may be elevated in bone, urine, and plasma of infants receiving TPN. Aluminum accumulation in tissues of uremic patients and adult TPN patients has been associated with low-turnover bone disease. Furthermore, aluminum has also been linked with encephalopathy and anemia in uremic patients and with hepatic cholestasis in experimental animals. Because of the toxic effects of aluminum, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently published a notice of intent to set an upper limit of 25 micrograms/L for aluminum in large-volume parenterals and to require manufacturers of small-volume parenterals, such as calcium and phosphate salts, to measure aluminum content and note this content on the package label. The ASCN/A.S.P.E.N. Working Group on Standards for Aluminum Content of Parenteral Nutrition Solutions supports these intentions and further urges the FDA to require that cumulative aluminum intake in terms of safe, unsafe, and toxic quantities of aluminum per kilogram be made known to physicians and pharmacists preparing the TPN solutions, to ensure that manufacturers use appropriate control procedures in aluminum measurements, and to employ a standard unit of aluminum measurement. 
Repair and replacement of deep vein valves in the treatment of venous insufficiency. Venous insufficiency is a widespread condition, the prevalence of venous ulceration being 0.5-1.0 per cent in Western populations. A principal abnormality causing venous insufficiency is deep venous reflux, usually resulting from post-thrombotic valve destruction. Patients undergoing treatment for venous insufficiency should have all venous abnormalities investigated, defined and corrected where possible. Although treatment for superficial and communicating vein incompetence is available, correction of deep vein reflux has been neglected until recently. Deep vein valve physiology, the selection of patients for deep vein valve surgery and methods of valve repair and replacement are reviewed. 
Gastric villous adenoma: radiologic features. The high incidence of malignant transformation of gastric villous adenoma requires prompt diagnosis of this rare tumor. We have reported the case of such a tumor in a 29-year-old man. The radiologic appearance of a gastric soft tissue mass with a reticular pattern is highly diagnostic. 
A case of granulomatous hepatitis after intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration. A 61-year-old man received intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) as treatment for superficial bladder carcinoma. High spiking relapsing fevers began 39 days after the initial treatment. A liver biopsy revealed noncaseating granuloma. Deoxyribonucleic acid hybridization of the bone marrow was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. Pressure exerted to instill the BCG may have favored dissemination. 
A comparison between heparin and low-dose aspirin as adjunctive therapy with tissue plasminogen activator for acute myocardial infarction. Heparin-Aspirin Reperfusion Trial (HART) Investigators BACKGROUND. We report the results of the Heparin-Aspirin Reperfusion Trial, a collaborative study comparing early intravenous heparin with oral aspirin as adjunctive treatment when recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is used for coronary thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction. METHODS. Two hundred five patients were randomly assigned to receive either immediate and then continuous intravenous heparin (starting with a 5000-unit bolus; n = 106) or immediate and then daily oral aspirin (80 mg; n = 99) together with rt-PA (100 mg intravenously over a six-hour period) initiated within six hours of the onset of symptoms. We evaluated the patency of the infarct-related artery by angiography 7 to 24 hours after beginning rt-PA infusion, the frequency of reocclusion of the artery by repeat angiography on day 7, and ischemic or hemorrhagic complications during the hospital stay. RESULTS. At the time of the first angiogram, 82 percent of the infarct-related arteries in the patients assigned to heparin were patent, as compared with only 52 percent in the aspirin group (P less than 0.0001). Of the initially patent vessels, 88 percent remained patent after seven days in the heparin group, as compared with 95 percent in the aspirin group (P not significant). The numbers of hemorrhagic events (18 in the heparin and 15 in the aspirin group) and recurrent ischemic events (8 in the heparin and 2 in the aspirin group) were similar in the two groups. CONCLUSIONS. Coronary patency rates associated with rt-PA are higher with early concomitant systemic heparin treatment than with concomitant low-dose oral aspirin. This observation has important implications for clinical practice and should be considered in the design and interpretation of clinical trials involving coronary thrombolytic therapy. 
Reproductive and menstrual factors and risk of peritoneal and ovarian endometriosis. OBJECTIVE: Between 1987 and 1989 data were collected to evaluate risk factors for pelvic endometriosis. DESIGN: A case-control study was conducted on 241 cases with laparoscopically or laparotomically confirmed peritoneal or ovarian endometriosis consecutively admitted to three teaching hospitals in Northern Italy. The control group consisted of 437 women admitted to hospitals for acute conditions covering similar catchment areas. RESULTS: Compared with nulliparous women, the risk of endometriosis decreased with increasing number of births: the point estimates were 0.4 and 0.3, respectively, for those with one and two or more births (X2(1) trend = 50.3, P less than 0.001). No relation emerged with age at first birth and spontaneous miscarriages. Relative to women whose menarche occurred at age 11 or younger, the risk of endometriosis was slightly lower in those who experienced later menarche, but the trend in risk was not significant. Women with irregular menstrual cycles showed a lower frequency of the disease (relative risk, 0.3; 95% confidence interval, 0.2 to 0.5). The role of various factors was largely similar for different disease locations (ovary, peritoneum, and both) and indication for diagnostic surgery (sterility, pelvic pain, and other reasons). CONCLUSIONS: This study found that parity and irregular/long menses lower the risk of endometriosis. These findings were similar in different subgroups of disease location and indication for surgery, giving strong evidence of the consistency of the general results. 
Will Rogers and the results of radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer. Disease-free survival rates for patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer treated by radical cystectomy with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy with or without adjuvant chemotherapy are 75% to 80% in stage B disease, 60% in stage C disease, and approximately 50% in stage D disease. Vascular invasion is an important prognostic factor in meticulously staged patients. Powerful selection factors, including more accurate clinical and pathologic staging and improved surgery, as well as unspecified selection factors, may contribute to the improved results. In order to evaluate the impact of adjuvant chemotherapy, a randomized, controlled study is necessary. 
Glutathione peroxidase deficiency and childhood seizures. 4 children with intractable seizures, repeated infections, and intolerance to anticonvulsants had evidence of glutathione peroxidase deficiency. 2 had low intracellular enzyme activity but normal blood selenium and high plasma glutathione peroxidase concentrations. The other 2 had low intracellular glutathione peroxidase activity with low circulating glutathione peroxidase and selenium concentrations. The clinical state of the children improved after discontinuation of anticonvulsant medication and selenium substitution. 
Prevention of stress-induced erosive gastritis by parenteral administration of arachidonic acid. Stress-induced mucosal ulcerations are associated with a decreased synthesis of mucosal prostaglandin (PG) E2. This phenomenon is poorly understood. To investigate whether it is due to a decreased availability of the necessary substrates to the mucosa, four groups of 10 Holtzman rats were studied: group 1 received normal saline by intraperitoneal (ip) injection; group 2 also received ip normal saline, then were submitted to stress, by the cold restraint method; group 3 received a solution of arachidonic acid (AA) ip; and group 4 also received ip AA, then were submitted to stress. After sacrifice, the number of gastric ulcerations were counted and specimens of nonulcerated mucosa were assayed for PGE2 by high-performance liquid chromatography; the mean numbers of ulcers were 0, 5.8, 0.8, and 3 and the mean levels of PGE2 were 55, 41, 125, and 62 pg/mg of wet tissue for groups 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. It is concluded that parenteral administration of AA reduces but does not completely eliminate stress-induced gastric ulcerations and that the stressed animals synthesized half as much PGE2 as the nonstressed ones after ip administration of equal amounts of AA, suggesting that stress reduces the availability of AA to the gastric mucosa, possibly by vascular spasm. 
A technique to accurately construct a contact dressing. We describe a technique to rapidly and accurately construct the contact layer of a composite dressing. This technique is simple to perform and is suitable for any open wound. It is especially useful for moderately sized wounds created during extirpation of tumors by Mohs micrographic surgery. 
The outcome of decompressive laminectomy for degenerative lumbar stenosis. The outcome of laminectomy for the relief of symptoms resulting from degenerative lumbar stenosis is not well established. Eighty-eight consecutive patients who had had a laminectomy for degenerative lumbar stenosis between 1983 and 1986 were studied. Eight of the patients had had a concomitant arthrodesis. The follow-up evaluation included a review of charts and standardized questionnaires that were completed by the patients. One year postoperatively, five patients (6 per cent) had had a second operation and five still had severe pain. By the time of the latest follow-up, in 1989, fifteen (17 per cent) of the original eighty-eight patients had had a repeat operation because of instability or stenosis; twenty-one (30 per cent) of the seventy patients who were evaluated by questionnaire in 1989 had severe pain. The factors found to be associated with a poor long-term outcome, defined as severe pain or the need for a repeat operation, or both, included co-existing illnesses (such as osteoarthrosis, cardiac disease, rheumatoid arthritis, or chronic pulmonary disease) (p = 0.004), the duration of follow-up (p = 0.01), and an initial laminectomy involving a single interspace (p = 0.04). We concluded that the long-term outcome of decompressive laminectomy is less favorable than has been previously reported, and that co-morbidity and a single-interspace laminectomy are risk factors for a poor outcome. 
Cortical evoked potentials by stimulation of the vesicourethral junction: clinical value and neurophysiological considerations. In 21 healthy volunteers and 42 patients with either neurogenic bladder dysfunction (24), partial peripheral denervation of the bladder (12) or nonneurogenic bladder dysfunction (6) scalp-derived evoked potentials after stimulation of the vesicourethral junction (cortical evoked potentials) were recorded. In addition, evoked potentials from the posterior tibial nerve (tibial somatosensory evoked potentials) and from the pudendal nerve (pudendal somatosensory evoked potentials) were evaluated. The results obtained in normal subjects were reproducible and comparable to those reported in previous studies. Cortical evoked potentials of vesicourethral junction consisted of a prominent negativity with a mean latency of 95 msec. Tibial and pudendal somatosensory evoked potentials were similar and showed a typical W-shaped complex. In normal subjects stimulation of the vesicourethral junction was described as a stimulus-synchronous pulsation combined with a continuous burning feeling and sometimes with a desire to void. In 4 normal subjects no cortical evoked potentials of the vesicourethral junction could be obtained because of a decreased pain threshold. In regard to clinical value, the results demonstrate that in patients with lesions of the central nervous system (in the group with cauda equina and conus medullaris lesions, and in the group with suprasacral spinal cord lesions) the results of cortical evoked potentials of the vesicourethral junction and pudendal somatosensory evoked potentials widely correlate due to similar afferent nervous pathways within the central nervous system. However, in patients with partial peripheral denervation of the bladder with suspected additional secondary local detrusor damage the results of cortical evoked potentials obtained by stimulation of the vesicourethral junction differ mostly from the results of somatosensory evoked potentials obtained by stimulation of the pudendal nerve. The pattern obtained (increased sensory and pain threshold, normal cortical evoked potentials of the vesicourethral junction with normal latencies and normal or increased amplitude) is indicative of local detrusor damage. In 21 patients the ability to detect cortical evoked potentials of the vesicourethral junction was combined with the sensation of stimulus-synchronous pulsation, whereas in the other 21 patients the absence of this sensation during stimulation was combined with the absence of cortical evoked potentials. On the other hand, no correlation was found between the ability of obtaining cortical evoked potentials of the vesicourethral junction and the stimulus-induced sensation of pain and/or desire to void.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Abnormal small bowel permeability and duodenitis in recurrent abdominal pain. Thirty nine children with recurrent abdominal pain aged between 5.5 and 12 years, underwent endoscopic duodenal biopsy to find out if there were any duodenal inflammatory changes, and if there was a relationship between duodenal inflammation and intestinal permeability to 51Cr-EDTA. Duodenal inflammation was graded by the duodenitis scale of Whitehead et al (grade 0, 1, 2, and 3). In 13 out of 39 patients (33%) definite signs of inflammation were found (grade 2 and 3). Intestinal permeability to 51Cr-EDTA in patients with duodenitis (grade 1, 2, and 3) was significantly higher (4.42 (1.73)%) than in patients with normal (grade 0) duodenal biopsy appearances (3.3 (0.9)%). A significant association was found between duodenal inflammation and abnormal intestinal permeability. Our results give further evidence that there is an intestinal origin of these patients' complaints. 
Surgical treatment of limbic epilepsy associated with extrahippocampal lesions: the problem of dual pathology. The authors present their review of 178 patients who underwent en bloc temporal lobectomies as surgical treatment for intractable epilepsy. Hippocampal cell density was quantitatively analyzed and the histology of the anterior temporal lobe was reviewed. Fifty-four patients (30.3%) had evidence of extrahippocampal lesions in addition to neuronal cell loss within the hippocampus (the dual pathology group). The pattern of cell loss was analyzed in the remaining 124 cases (69.7%) with no extrahippocampal pathology, and compared with that of the dual pathology group and a control group of four nonepileptic patients. Hippocampal cell loss was found in almost all epileptic patients compared to the control group. Severe cell loss greater than 30% of control values was found in 88.7% of patients without extrahippocampal lesions, but in only 51.8% of patients with dual pathology. The difference between these two groups was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). In the dual pathology group, lesions of different pathology had a significant relationship with the degree of hippocampal cell loss: all 12 patients with glioma had mild cell loss, whereas all 13 patients with heterotopia were associated with severe cell loss. Severity of hippocampal cell loss was also analyzed in relation to seizure history: a prior severe head injury was associated with severe cell loss. Other factors such as seizure duration, secondary generalization, or family history of seizures were not associated with hippocampal damage. Dual pathology may produce a combination of neocortical and temporolimbic epilepsies that warrants a precise definition of the true epileptogenic area prior to surgical treatment. 
Regional chemotherapy using continuous intravesical infusion doxorubicin for the treatment of muscle invasive transitional cell bladder carcinoma in a rat model. Previously established animal models of invasive transitional cell bladder carcinoma and continuous infusion intravesical drug delivery were combined to evaluate the urothelial toxicity and antineoplastic efficacy of continuous intravesical infusion doxorubicin (DOX). Dose-response toxicity experiments studied histologic changes in the rat urinary bladder following urothelial exposure to three different urinary levels of DOX, as a function of the duration of drug infusion. Systemic and local drug absorption, as measured by DOX levels in serum, bladder, retroperitoneal lymph nodes, and liver, was measured at intervals during drug administration. In vitro chemosensitivity assays were used to determine tumor sensitivity to DOX. Treatment studies evaluated the impact of 14-day continuous infusion DOX beginning seven days following tumor implantation. No histologically discernable changes in the normal urothelium were noted in bladders of animals receiving continuous intravesicle DOX at mean urinary concentrations of 0.05 micrograms./ml. (n = 5), 0.56 micrograms./ml. (n = 10), and 5.69 micrograms./ml. (n = 10) for periods of up to 14 days. Serum drug concentrations demonstrated a non-significant upward trend following the start of therapy. Significant increases in tissue DOX levels were noted in the bladder and retroperitoneal lymph nodes on chemotherapy days 7 and 14. Mean tissue DOX concentrations in both the bladder and lymph nodes were greater than the IC50 observed in the in vitro sensitivity assay. DOX-treated tumor-bearing animals (n = 17) had a mean tumor volume (+/- standard deviation) of 0.65 gm. +/- 0.52 gm. compared to an average tumor volume of 1.20 gm. +/- 0.66 gm. in the control group (n = 18) (p = 0.0112). Continuous infusion intraluminal chemotherapy demonstrated a clear cytoreductive effect with minimal local toxicity in this model. Drug tissue levels were observed in regional lymphatic drainage fields as well as the bladder wall. Further study to evaluate this approach as a bladder-sparing alternative to muscle invasive disease is warranted. 
Effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on pressure-induced left ventricular hypertrophy in rats. The influence of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition on the development of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy due to stenosis of the aortic arch was studied in female Sprague-Dawley rats. The aortic arch was banded to an outer diameter of 1.0 mm. After 14 days, LV and right ventricular functional parameters and transstenotic pressure gradient were measured in anesthetized rats. In addition, regional heart weights were determined, and myocytes of three different heart regions were isolated and subjected to morphometric analysis. To inhibit the angiotensin converting enzyme, ramipril was administered orally by gavage in a single daily dose of 1 mg/kg. Rats with aortic stenosis showed a marked increase in LV systolic pressure, mean prestenotic aortic pressure, and LV stroke work compared with sham-operated rats and demonstrated a systolic transstenotic pressure gradient of 82 mm Hg. This increase in LV hemodynamic load was paralleled by the development of LV hypertrophy as determined by a 37% increase in LV weight and by a 20% increase in cell volume of isolated LV myocytes. Concomitant ramipril treatment did not significantly affect LV functional parameters. The transstenotic pressure gradient was the same as in untreated rats with aortic stenosis. Likewise, the weight gain of the LV as well as the development of cellular hypertrophy of the LV were not influenced. Thus, in this model, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition did not reduce the development of LV hypertrophy independent of the hemodynamic load. 
Use of bioerodible polymers impregnated with mitomycin in glaucoma filtration surgery in rabbits. A prospective, randomized, double-masked, and placebo-controlled study was performed to evaluate the effects of a localized and sustained release of mitomycin on the success of glaucoma filtration surgery in rabbits. A bioerodible polymer was used as the drug carrier. Full-thickness filtration surgeries were performed and data from 22 rabbits were collected. One eye received a polymer impregnated with mitomycin (0.02 mg or 0.06 mg), while the fellow eye received a drug-free polymer. Intraocular pressure, bleb survival, and postoperative complications were investigated. Intraocular pressures remained lower for a longer period of time (P less than 0.004) and filtration blebs lasted longer (P less than 0.05) in experimental eyes than in control eyes. Conjunctivitis and sectorial corneal haze occurred more frequently in eyes treated with the higher dosage mitomycin compared with control eyes. The use of mitomycin-C in a polymer delivery system appeared to promote the success of glaucoma filtration surgery in rabbits. With the lower dosage of mitomycin, clinically significant ocular toxicity was not noted. 
Influence of type of prosthesis on late results after combined mitral-aortic valve replacement. The influence of type of prosthesis on the late outcome of patients with combined mitral-aortic valve replacement was analyzed by comparing, at a 14-year follow-up, patients receiving two biological prostheses (group 1; n = 135), two mechanical prostheses (group 2; n = 221), or a mechanical prosthesis in the aortic position and a bioprosthesis in the mitral position (group 3; n = 97). No difference was found among the three groups in terms of actuarial survival and incidence of and freedom from valve-related deaths, thromboemboli, and hemorrhages. Patients with biological prostheses had a significantly greater incidence of structural valve deterioration, reoperations, and overall complications when compared with patients with only mechanical prostheses. The results of an extended follow-up of patients with combined mitral-aortic valve replacement indicate that mechanical prostheses perform better in the long-term owing to their superior durability when compared with biological valves. The use of bioprostheses should be confined to old patients with limited life expectancy because of their cardiac disease, provided that anticoagulants are not used. Combination of mechanical and biological prostheses in the same patient should be avoided because the advantages of each type of prosthesis are lost. 
Chick nutritional encephalomalacia and prostanoid formation. Nutritional encephalomalacia (NE) was induced in young chicks using a diet low in vitamin E and containing 8% ethyl esters derived from safflower oil fatty acids (S-E group). The same diet with added alpha-tocopheryl acetate (S+E) failed to produce the pathology, and chicks receiving aerated linseed oil--high in alpha-linolenic acid and low in alpha-tocopherol (L-E)--did not develop symptoms. Formation of metabolites from labeled arachidonic acid (AA) by thrombocytes was similar in the S+E and S-E groups, yielding thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and hydroxy fatty acids as the major products. Collagen-induced thrombocyte aggregation and TXB2 production were not significantly different in the S-E and S+E groups, but aggregation values and TXB2 synthesis were significantly less in the L-E group than in the ataxic S-E chicks. Prostaglandin E2 production by aortal rings was significantly influenced by the diet; S-E yielded the highest value and L-E the lowest. These results show that alpha-linolenic acid causes alterations in the AA metabolism and thrombocyte function in young chicks. 
Carinal resection for bronchogenic carcinoma. Techniques are available for carinal resection and reconstruction for bronchogenic carcinoma involving the carina. Successful outcome depends on careful patient selection, thorough preoperative evaluation, careful anesthetic management, strict attention to surgical technique, and compulsive postoperative care. Since 1973 we have performed 37 carinal resections for bronchogenic carcinoma: 21 right carinal pneumonectomies, 7 carinal resections, 7 carina plus lobe resections, and 2 carina plus pneumonectomy stump resections. Five patients had diseased N2 nodes and 13 patients had diseased N1 nodes. Complications included pulmonary (8), vocal cord paresis (3), atrial fibrillation (9), anastomotic stenosis (4), and anastomotic separation (3). There were 3 early postoperative deaths (8%). All were related to adult respiratory distress syndrome and were unresponsive to aggressive treatment. There were 4 late postoperative deaths between 2 and 4 months (10.9%). All late postoperative deaths were related to anastomotic complications (stenosis [1] and separation [3]). There are 5 absolute 5-year survivors and an actuarial 5-year survival rate of 19%. 
Endothelial dysfunction in response to psychosocial stress in monkeys. The current study was designed to evaluate the effects of a disrupted social environment on the endothelial integrity of various vascular segments in male cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). Each of 20 single-caged adult monkeys was fed a diet comparable to a person's ingestion of 240 mg cholesterol/day for a 10-week baseline period and then was introduced as a stranger into a four-member social group for 3 days. Half of the monkeys received a beta-adrenergic blocking agent (metoprolol) via subcutaneous implant 2 days before and during group housing. The social manipulation produced persistent sympathetic arousal as evidenced by significantly elevated heart rates among untreated monkeys (p less than 0.01) but not among their metoprolol-treated counterparts, whose heart rate declined (p less than 0.05). After the social manipulation, all monkeys were necropsied and evaluated for endothelial incorporation of immunoglobulin G (as an indicator of cell death), endothelial cell replication, the presence of adherent leukocytes, and arterial low density lipoprotein permeability and concentration. At branching sites in the thoracic aorta, immunoglobulin G incorporation and endothelial cell replication were significantly greater in untreated monkeys than in metoprolol-treated monkeys (p less than 0.01 for both analyses); no differences existed at nonbranch sites. Endothelial cell replication in the coronary arteries (where immunoglobulin G incorporation was not examined) was also greater among untreated than among metoprolol-treated monkeys. No significant differences were observed between treatment groups in arterial low density lipoprotein permeability or leukocyte adherence; estimates of arterial low density lipoprotein concentrations were higher among untreated than among metoprolol-treated monkeys, but only in the abdominal portion of the aorta. These results indicate that social disruption is associated with both sympathetic nervous system arousal and indexes of endothelial dysfunction, effects that may be prevented by treatment with a beta-adrenergic blocking agent. 
Clinical and electrophysiological aspects of acute paralytic disease of children and young adults in northern China. Acute peripheral nervous system diseases leading to paralysis in children are rare in Europe and the USA, whereas epidemics of a Guillain-Barre-like syndrome occur annually among children in rural parts of northern China. To clarify the features of this disorder 36 patients, aged 15 months to 37 years (median 7) with this syndrome were investigated; 91% were from rural areas. In 47%, a prodromal illness was reported in the preceding 4 weeks. Leg weakness and resistance to neck flexion were the earliest symptoms. The weakness ascended rapidly and symmetrically to affect the arms and respiratory muscles, with maximum weakness occurring a mean of 6 days after onset of weakness. Bulbar weakness occurred in 61% of patients, but only 1 had extraocular paresis. Respiratory assistance was needed by 31% of patients. Tendon reflexes were lost as weakness developed. 42% of patients had raised concentrations of protein in the cerebrospinal fluid, and the mean cell count was 3 cells/microliters (range 0-12/microliters). Electrodiagnostic studies in 22 patients showed severe reductions in motor evoked amplitudes from distal stimulation. Sensory action potentials were normal. Electromyography revealed denervation potentials in limb muscles. The distinctive epidemiological, clinical, and neurophysiological characteristics of this illness suggest that the disorder is different from both Guillain-Barre syndrome and poliomyelitis. The neurophysiological findings support the hypothesis that the disorder is a reversible distal motor nerve terminal or anterior horn cell lesion. 
Hemodynamic responses to endotracheal extubation after coronary artery bypass grafting. After coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery, patients may remain at risk for myocardial ischemia and infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias. The hemodynamic responses to endotracheal extubation and the efficacy of intravenous lidocaine pretreatment were studied after CABG surgery and overnight mechanical ventilation. Twenty-five patients were divided into two groups: group 1 (n = 13) patients who had tracheal extubation after pretreatment with a placebo; group 2 patients who received lidocaine (1 mg/kg IV) before tracheal extubation. Hemodynamic data, electrocardiographic tracings, and arterial blood gases were obtained before tracheal extubation, during suctioning, and 1, 5, and 20 min after tracheal extubation. Group 1 patients displayed significant increases in heart rate, arterial blood pressure, rate-pressure product, right atrial pressure, and cardiac index during suctioning and within 1 min of tracheal extubation, returning to preextubation level by 5 min. There were no significant changes in pulmonary and systemic resistance indices. Hemodynamic changes in group 2 patients were similar to those in group 1. Both in the absence and presence of lidocaine, tracheal extubation caused hemodynamic responses that were small in magnitude and brief in duration. These responses were not associated with electrocardiographic or enzymatic evidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction, or with ventricular dysrhythmias. Compared with the well-documented hemodynamic responses to tracheal intubation, we found that extubation of the trachea after CABG surgery was associated with less pronounced responses. This may be related to avoidance of laryngoscopy and possibly accommodation to the endo-tracheal tube. These modest hemodynamic responses of extubation of the trachea after CABG surgery were not modified by intravenous lidocaine. 
Mycosis fungoides: cutaneous T-cell lymphoma [published erratum appears in Am Fam Physician 1991 Jun;43(6):1954] Most patients with mycosis fungoides are between 40 and 60 years of age. The disease has three clinical stages: (1) the premycotic, or patch, stage, consisting of macular, scaling, faint pink to red pruritic patches, usually on unexposed surfaces; (2) the mycotic, or plaque, stage, consisting of reddish, purple-brown plaques, often annular in shape and symmetric in distribution, and (3) the tumor stage, consisting of red-brown to violaceous, dome-shaped, firm tumors with a predilection for the face and body folds. The Sezary syndrome is a leukemic variant. Treatment depends on the extent of disease and includes topical or systemic chemotherapy, radiotherapy and psoralen plus long-wave ultraviolet light therapy. 
Role of extended aortoplasty related to the definition of coarctation of the aorta. One hundred thirty-nine patients underwent operation for coarctation of the aorta. Age ranged from 1 day to 21 years and weight, from 1.5 to 70.4 kg. Numerous methods of repair were used. The operative mortality was low (1.3%), and 17 patients (11.3%) died late. Recoarctation occurred in 13 patients (9.4%). We attempted to correlate mortality and recoarctation with the surgical procedure. A review of the literature revealed no classifications of coarctation that applied to the anatomical and pathological variations we found at the time of operation. Therefore, we devised a surgical classification to separate the various entities in the spectrum of coarctation: type I = primary coarctation; type II = coarctation with isthmus hypoplasia; and type III = coarctation with tubular hypoplasia involving the isthmus and segment between the left carotid and left subclavian arteries. Each of these types has subtypes: A = with ventricular septal defect and B = with other major cardiac defects. We believe that rather than labeling one procedure as "the procedure of choice," providing this classification will allow the surgeon to use a method of repair that is suited to the anatomical variation. 
A follow-up study of occupational skin disease in Western Australia. From a total of 993 previously reported cases of occupational skin disease (OSD), 954 (96%) were contacted and 711 (75%) examined. The review time (i.e., period from original diagnosis of OSD until review) varied from a minimum of 6 months to a maximum of over 8 years. Over 60% of cases were reviewed more than 2 years after the original diagnosis was made. More than 50% were still suffering from OSD or consequences related thereto. Clearance was less likely in those who remained in their original, or similar, occupational environment. However, of those who changed their job due to OSD, many suffered aggravation of the dermatitis from factors in the new work environment. Over 10% of cases had evolved into a persistent postoccupational dermatitis without obvious cause. This condition is responsible for considerable impairment and is of medicolegal importance due to confusion as to its relationship to the original occupational factors. 
Balloon dilatation of esophageal strictures in children. Traditionally, the treatment of esophageal strictures in children has been done with mercury bougies in a prograde fashion or with Tucker dilators passed along a guide wire in a retrograde manner. An alternative approach has used a balloon dilatation catheter passed over a guide wire previously placed under fluoroscopic guidance. Over the past 5 years, this technique has been used in 43 procedures for both discrete and diffuse strictures. The interventions were performed in a total of 15 patients ranging in age from 8 months to 21 years. In all cases, there was improvement of the preceding symptoms following dilatation. This report details the experience with this technique at Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, emphasizing the indications, contraindications, and potential complications associated with balloon dilatation of esophageal strictures in children. 
Remission and recurrence after withdrawal of therapy for ocular cicatricial pemphigoid. Ocular cicatricial pemphigoid (OCP) is a chronic, progressive, autoimmune disease that scars mucus membranes and may lead to blindness. The authors studied the long-term effects of OCP in 104 consecutive patients (average follow-up, 4 years) to determine whether complete remission could be achieved after a course of treatment with immunosuppressive drugs. Prolonged periods of remission while not undergoing therapy were maintained in approximately one third of patients with OCP. Follow-up must be continued for life, as relapse occurred in 22% of those who were in remission and not undergoing therapy. Those who relapsed regained disease control readily upon reinstitution of therapy and did not deteriorate to more advanced cicatrization. Sex, age, initial degree of inflammation, and the incidence of extraocular involvement did not have a prognostic significance on outcome. Mechanisms that underlie the differing responses to therapy are not yet known. 
Morphometric evidence for bone resorption and replacement in prostate cancer. A series of 78 patients with metastatic bone disease from prostate cancer underwent iliac crest biopsy, enabling histomorphometric quantification of eroded bone surface and bone volume in both tumour-free and metastatic bone tissue. Eroded surfaces in tumour-free specimens were high in patients with active compared to stable disease but bone volume was maintained in both groups, whilst in bone surrounding micrometastases (n = 8) eroded surfaces were further increased and bone volume reduced. Eroded surfaces within metastases were greater still but were associated with increased bone volume due to replacement of the existing trabecular tissue with abnormal woven bone, giving an overall appearance of sclerosis. These results show that the effect of prostate cancer on bone tissue is complex, involving differential disturbance of bone formation and resorption within metastases, in bone surrounding tumour invasion and in the tumour-free skeleton. 
Surface osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma arising on the periosteal aspect of bone comprises a biologically heterogeneous group of neoplasms. The group as a whole may be referred to by a single descriptive term that emphasizes their common site of origin and underscores their malignant osteogenic potential: surface osteosarcoma. Its biologic heterogeneity may be approached via a number of avenues. Detailed description of individual tumors and grading are frequently employed. However, implementation of a classification system based upon reproducible clinical, roentgenographic, macroscopic, and histologic parameters is advantageous. The suggested classification system serves to clearly define parosteal and periosteal osteosarcoma, as well as recognize unusual variants. Most important, it defines therapeutic strategy. The classification system identifies low-grade, biologically indolent forms (i.e., parosteal osteosarcoma and periosteal osteosarcoma) that are best treated by surgery alone. At the same time, it recognizes high-grade forms with significant potential for life-threatening behavior (i.e., 'dedifferentiated' parosteal osteosarcoma and high-grade surface osteosarcoma) that are best managed by multimodality therapy incorporating chemotherapy and surgery. 
Suture entrapment and secondary ureteral obstruction. During the 6-year period ending in 1988, suture entrapment and secondary postoperative ureteral obstruction occurred in 18 (0.33%) of the 5379 patients who underwent major pelvic operations for benign conditions. Sixteen cases occurred after vaginal surgery and two after abdominal hysterectomy. Placement of the McCall suture or sutures for elevation of a bladder neck caused ureteral entrapment most frequently. Early diagnosis was facilitated by comparison of preoperative and postoperative serum creatinine levels. The mean change in serum creatinine level in patients with unilateral obstruction was an increase of 0.8 mg/dl. Treatment by either antegrade placement of ureteral stents or abdominal exploration with deligation or ureteroneocystotomy was successful in all cases. Retrograde placement of ureteral stents was unsuccessful. 
An outbreak of Escherichia coli O157:H7 colitis associated with consumption of precooked meat patties. An outbreak of Escherichia coli O157:H7 hemorrhagic colitis at a Minnesota junior high school in October 1988 comprised 32 cases among 1562 students (attack rate, 2.0%). Four children were hospitalized; none developed hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Case children were more likely than controls to have eaten heat-processed meat patties (odds ratio, 6.2; 95% confidence interval, 2.0-20.1; P less than .001) in the school cafeteria on a specific day. The minimum estimated attack rate among students who ate these patties was 8%. The patties should have been sufficiently cooked by the manufacturer to destroy enteric pathogens before they were frozen and distributed. E. coli were cultured from frozen patties that were manufactured at the same plant on the same dates as the implicated patties, but serotype O157:H7 was not isolated. Heat-processed meat patties may serve as vehicles for E. coli O157:H7 infection, and currently there are no federal or state regulatory standards to ensure the safety of these products. 
Dacryocystorhinostomy in osteopetrosis. Osteopetrosis is a rare congenital disorder of bone metabolism characterized by generalized sclerotic bone resulting from osteoclast dysfunction. There are several ocular manifestations, one of which is nasolacrimal duct obstruction from osteosclerosis of the nasolacrimal foramen. The surgeon must anticipate and prepare for the difficulties of working with marbleized, ultra-dense bone, alternating technique accordingly. In nasolacrimal duct obstruction, surgical management produces seemingly stable long-term results. However, if ossification recurs at the operative site, reoperation may become necessary for either optic nerve decompression or dacryocystorhinostomy. 
Timing of breast cancer excision during the menstrual cycle influences duration of disease-free survival OBJECTIVE: To study disease-free survival at 10 years in relation to timing of breast tumor excision during the menstrual cycle. DESIGN: A prospective study of consecutively treated patients with primary breast cancer. SETTING: Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York. PATIENTS: Two hundred and eighty-three premenopausal patients treated by mastectomy and axillary dissection. MAIN RESULTS: When the tumor was excised during the follicular phase, approximated by setting the putative day of ovulation on day 14 after the onset of last menses, a higher recurrence risk (43%) was observed compared with excision later in the menstrual cycle (29%, P = 0.02). The rate peaked among patients treated between days 7 and 14 and was lowest between days 20 and 30. Multivariate analysis using the Cox regression model to control for tumor size, nodal status, estrogen receptor status, adjuvant chemotherapy, and family history indicated that the hazard rate of breast cancer recurrence after excision during the follicular phase was 1.53 (95% Cl, 1.02 to 2.29). Stratification by nodal status indicated that the effect of phase was statistically significant only among patients with positive nodes (hazard ratio, 2.10; Cl, 1.19 to 3.70). CONCLUSIONS: Our results support the hypothesis that the risk for recurrence may be affected by the hormonal milieu of the menstrual cycle; these findings must be confirmed, however, by a prospective study in which cycle phase at time of tumor excision is biochemically documented. 
Reversible sustained increase of gastrin and gastric acid secretion in a subgroup of duodenal ulcer patients on long-term treatment with H2 antagonists We assessed the effect of long-lasting inhibition of gastric acid secretion on basal and meal-stimulated serum gastrin and gastric acid secretion in 37 patients on long-term maintenance treatment with H2 antagonists for severe relapsing and/or complicated duodenal ulcer disease. After a mean of 142 weeks (range, 28-324 weeks) of continuous treatment, gastric acid secretion, basal plasma gastrin, and gastrin response to a test meal were evaluated. All tests were performed a week after drug discontinuation to exclude rapidly reversible hypergastrinemia. Gastrin levels were above the normal range in seven patients (18.9%). After H2 antagonist were stopped for 6 weeks, basal gastrin returned to normal levels in all cases [from a median of 180 (range, 130-350) pg/ml to 58 (25-90) pg/ml] and peak meal-stimulated gastrin significantly decreased from a median of 500 pg/ml to 245 pg/ml (p = 0.02). In patients with hypergastrinemia, the discontinuation of H2 antagonists for 6 weeks led to a significant decrease of gastric acid secretion. Patients who developed hypergastrinemia spent more weeks on full-dose treatment and had more recurrences during therapy. The results of the present investigation demonstrate that a long-lasting inhibition of gastric acid secretion can induce, in a small percentage of patients, a reversible sustained hypergastrinemia and a consequent increase of acid secretion, which conceivably could lead to more frequent relapses of duodenal ulcer disease. 
Renal plasmacytoma: Mayo Clinic experience and review of the literature. Extramedullary plasmacytoma arising in the kidney is rare. Only 8 cases have been reported. Recently, we noted the ninth case, the second case seen at the Mayo Clinic. Clinically, the tumor mimics a renal cell carcinoma or a transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis. 
The relationship of chemotherapeutic and endocrine intervention on natural killer cell activity in human breast cancer. Peripheral blood natural killer (NK) activity against K562 target tumor cells was monitored in patients with breast cancer receiving no treatment, combination chemotherapy, and/or endocrine therapy. NK activity in untreated Stage I patients with no evidence of disease (ned) was significantly higher than in healthy controls. NK activity was shown to decline in individuals with cytotoxic drug therapy (P equals 0.036). There also were reduction in lymphocyte recoveries concomitant with chemotherapeutic intervention (P less than 0.001). Lymphocyte counts were incorporated in a calculation of absolute NK activity that more accurately reflected the significant reduction in NK activity that occurred in patients with localized and systemic disease on chemotherapy. Different chemotherapeutic agents were found to selectively affect NK activity. Stage II patients on phenylalanine mustard (P)/5-fluorouracil (F) (PF) and cyclophosphamide (C)/methotrexate (M)/5-fluorouracil (F) (CMF) protocols showed significant reductions in overall NK activity relative to healthy controls and Stage I patients with ned. Patients on P/doxorubicin (A)/F/tamoxifen (Tx) (PAFT) protocols showed reduced NK activity relative to Stage I patients. Patients on the short-dose C/A (CA) protocol showed normal levels of overall NK activity. High-risk Stage I patients on methotrexate (M)/F (MF)with sequential leucovorin rescue and patients with metastatic disease on endocrine therapy, i.e., Tx or megestrol acetate (Meg) showed overall NK activities in the range of healthy controls. Patients with systemic disease on CMF, CMF/vincristine/prednisone (CMFVP), vinblastine/A/thiotepa/fluoxymesterone (VATH), mitomycin/mitoxantrone (MtMx), and A regimens showed overall levels of absolute NK that were significantly less than either healthy controls or metastatic patients undergoing endocrine therapy. NK cytolytic data, monitored at multiple effector to target ratios, were subjected to exponential regression analysis. The elevation of NK cell responses in Stage I patients with ned and the decline of NK cell responses with cytotoxic chemotherapy were due to alterations in the maximal plateau levels of NK cell cytotoxicity represented by the A (asymptote) values. The k values obtained on regression analysis and indices of the relative killing capacities of individual NK cells remained unaltered in all populations. These results suggest that the cytolytic lymphocyte NK pool, elevated in Stage I patients with cancer, selectively declines as a result of cytotoxic therapy. 
Examination of the early conceptus. The pathologist encounters the early, first-trimester conceptus as a product of spontaneous or surgical abortion or as a specimen from ectopic, usually tubal, gestation. In the vast majority of cases of spontaneous abortion, the embryo/fetus has been dead for 1 week to several weeks and is most often lost in the process of uterine emptying; the placenta, accordingly, stands as the main "witness" of the abortive process. The fact of embryonic/fetal death is established and dated through an interpretation of gross and microscopic changes in the villous stroma, including its vessels and the embryonic erythrocytes therein. Elective abortions performed for social reasons occasionally yield abnormal findings that suggest gestations otherwise destined to eventual spontaneous abortion. Other therapeutic abortions are indicated by abnormal sonographic or cytogenetic findings that may be correlated with the morphologic features of the evacuated conceptus. Cytogenetic abnormalities correlate to a high degree with embryonic growth disorganization and with early death, usually before the fetal stage (30 mm) is reached. Adequate sampling of the placenta, its membranes, and of the embryo/fetus is recommended. For cytogenetic studies, clean, viable specimens must be obtained; these are most often required in cases of habitual abortion. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty utilizing prolonged balloon inflations: initial results and six-month follow-up. Coronary angioplasty (PTCA) using prolonged balloon inflation has obviated emergency coronary bypass surgery in some patients with acute occlusions at the time of PTCA. However, the use of prolonged balloon inflations has not been shown to improve long-term restenosis rates. As an alternative to the passive autoperfusion catheter, we evaluated a hemoperfusion system in which blood was obtained from the side arm of an arterial sheath and infused through the central lumen of standard balloon catheters via a modified Medrad IV pump during balloon inflation. PTCA was performed in 71 male patients (median age 57 yr). The median balloon inflation time was 4.8 minutes and the median rate of blood perfusion was 30 ml/min. PTCA was successful (lumen increase by 20 percentage points) in 83% of patients (59/71) with diameter stenosis decreasing from a median 82% to 30%. Emergency coronary bypass was required in four patients (5%). Angiographic data for six-month followup was available on 37 patients. The restenosis rate (loss of 50% of gain) was 46% (17/37). The conclusion is that prolonged balloon inflation angioplasty has a role in complicated PTCA but offers no advantage in improving long-term restenosis rates in elective PTCA. 
Epithelial downgrowth following the removal of iris inclusion cysts. We present three patients in whom epithelial downgrowth occurred following the excision of iris inclusion cysts. The sheet-like downgrowth was aggressively treated and successfully eradicated in two of the three patients. Early identification and prompt therapy are essential. 
Estimation of Doppler gradients at rest and during exercise in patients with recoarctation of the aorta. In patients with suspected recoarctation of the aorta the estimation of the pressure difference between the arms and legs is an important part of the examination. Because this difference is often augmented when the circulation is stressed by exercise, exercise tests are a useful part of the evaluation. Doppler echocardiography was used to estimate this pressure difference in 16 adult patients in whom simultaneous pressure and Doppler recordings were made both at rest and during exercise. There was a close correlation between the invasive peak instantaneous gradient and the Doppler gradient both at rest and during exercise. There was only a moderate correlation between the invasive peak to peak gradient and the Doppler gradient at rest and during exercise. Doppler echocardiography is recommended as an easy and accurate method of estimating the peak instantaneous gradient both at rest and during exercise in patients with suspected recoarctation. 
Biological significance of tissue plasminogen activator content in brain tumors. Fresh brain-tumor samples were obtained at operation and analyzed for their content of tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA) using an activity assay (gel chromatography zymogram) and an enzyme-linked immunospecific assay. The specimens were taken from 23 glioblastomas, 35 metastatic tumors, 42 meningiomas, 16 low-grade gliomas, and seven acoustic neurinomas; seven specimens were from normal brain. A strong correlation was found between the results of the two assays (r = 0.77, p less than 0.0001). There was a threefold difference in the tPA content of the benign tumors as compared to malignant tumors (p = 0.0006), the latter having less tPA. Histologically benign meningiomas contained higher tPA than malignant meningiomas (p = 0.01); however, the difference between low-grade gliomas and high-grade gliomas was less evident. Overall regression analysis data have shown an inverse relationship between the tissue content in tPA and the presence and degree of tumor necrosis and peritumoral brain edema (p = 0.004 and p = 0.0004, respectively). This finding was most consistent in the glioblastoma group where the correlation coefficient values were r = 0.53 and r = -0.55, respectively. There was no significant correlation between the tissue tPA content and the age and sex, steroid use, or plasma tPA of the patients or the duration of symptoms. In summary, this is the first demonstration of tPA in a large series of human brain tumors and in normal brain. The differences observed have clear biological significance and, although the source of tPA in tumor tissue is still unknown, a relative reduction in tPA in tumor tissue may play an integral role in the development of tissue necrosis and tissue edema. The lack of tPA in tumor necrosis was not due to tissue destruction and cell death since urokinase was readily detectable in that tissue. 
Autologous transfusion: an alternative to transfusion with banked blood during surgery for cancer. Autologous blood transfusion in surgery for cancer has been avoided because of the metastatic potential of reinfused malignant cells. This study determined whether viable tumour cells remain in the red cell concentrate after separation and whether blood transfusion filters remove these tumour cells before reinfusion. Units of banked blood were inoculated with tumour cell lines: breast cancer SKBr3; colon cancer COLO 320; lymphoma Daudi; erythroleukaemia K562. After processing with the Cell Saver, aliquots of the red cell concentrate and waste saline wash were examined for tumour cells and cultured. Tumour cells from all four cell lines were identified in the red cell concentrate but not in the waste saline wash. All the cell lines except Daudi grew from the red cell concentrate. Experiments on two of the cell lines (SKBr3 and COLO 320) were performed in which the red cell concentrate was either unfiltered (control) or filtered with SQ40S blood transfusion filter or RC100 leucocyte depletion filter. Both cell lines were present in the control samples and after filtration with SQ40S filters, and cells from these samples grew normally in culture. No tumour cells were evident after filtration with the RC100 filters and no growth of either cell line was found after 1 week in culture. The Cell Saver in combination with RC100 filters may be suitable for use during the surgical treatment of malignant disease. 
"Near miss" death in obstructive sleep apnea: a critical care syndrome. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to alert critical care physicians to the syndrome of obstructive sleep apnea with respiratory failure ("near miss" death) and to elucidate characteristics that might allow earlier recognition and treatment of such patients. DESIGN: We examined clinical and laboratory characteristics of eight patients with obstructive sleep apnea presenting to the ICU with respiratory failure. These characteristics were compared with those of eight stable apnea patients of similar severity but without a history of presentation with respiratory failure. SETTING: Medical ICU and pulmonary outpatient clinic at the Houston Veterans Administration Medical Center, a teaching hospital affiliated with Baylor College of Medicine. PATIENTS: Eight patients with obstructive sleep apnea who presented in, or developed, acute respiratory failure requiring tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation were matched to eight stable obstructive sleep apnea outpatients from the chest clinic. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The records of these 16 patients were reviewed and multiple characteristics that might predict these obstructive sleep apnea patients prone to respiratory failure and death (called the "near miss" death group; n = 8) were examined. The mean age of the near miss group was 57 yrs. All eight patients presented with respiratory acidosis (mean pH 7.22), hypercarbia (mean PaCO2 82 torr [10.9 kPa]), and hypoxemia (mean PaO2 45 torr [6.0 kPa]). Six of the eight patients had concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as determined by clinical characteristics and spirometry. Predisposing factors included facial trauma, lower respiratory tract infections or bronchospasm, and use of pain medication. All but one of the near miss subjects had awake hypercarbia (mean PaCO2 49 torr [6.5 kPa]) and hypoxemia (mean PaO2 58 torr [7.7 kPa]) during periods of clinical stability while only two controls had concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and none had hypercarbia. The prevalence of a history of wheezing and prior hospitalization for "respiratory problems" were greater in the near miss group. Once cured of apnea, no patient presented with recurrence of respiratory failure in follow-up ranging from 6 to 80 months, and cor pulmonale recurred in only one patient during subsequent onset of central apneas. CONCLUSION: Patients with obstructive sleep apnea who have concomitant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or hypercarbia and hypoxemia are more prone to develop severe respiratory failure and probable death than those patients with apnea alone. The current study shows that recurrent respiratory failure and presumably mortality from this acute complication can be reversed with effective treatment of the obstructive apnea. 
Symptomatic diverticulum of the 4th ventricle. A case of symptomatic diverticulum of the 4th ventricle in a 57-year-old man is presented. This clinicopathological observation supports a relationship between ventricular diverticula and ependyma-lined paraventricular cysts. 
Morphologic and staining characteristics of a cyanobacterium-like organism associated with diarrhea. A spherical organism 9-10 microns in diameter, seen in three outbreaks of diarrhea in Southeast Asia and the United States during the past 2 years, bore characteristics of a cyanobacterium when observed in formalin-preserved stool specimens and by electron microscopy. Organisms in freshly passed stool specimens showed an internal morula of lipid-containing globules. In fresh water, the morula divided into two sausage-shaped structures resembling the sporocysts of an isosporid coccidian. After 7 months, the organisms had not developed the crescentic sporozoites seen in the Coccidia but had begun to multiply slowly in culture. It was impossible to stain the internal structures of the organisms because the outer cyst wall ruptured during desiccation, releasing the contents of the cysts. The organisms were readily identified by their intense blue autofluorescence under UV light, but they were also recognizable by bright-field microscopy and by a modified acid-fast stain. Almost all infected persons suffered intermittent diarrhea for 2-3 weeks and many emphasized a feeling of intense fatigue during the course of their illness. 
The initial electrocardiogram in patients seen by a mobile coronary care unit. The advent of thrombolytic therapy for patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction has highlighted the importance of the initial electrocardiogram (ECG) in decision making. Thus we analysed the initial ECGs of 94 consecutive cases with suspected myocardial infarction who were seen within six hours after the onset of chest pain by a mobile coronary care unit. The study included 91 patients (three patients admitted twice) (61 male), aged 27-83 years (mean 60.5). Median time from onset of chest pain to arrival of the mobile coronary care unit was 75 minutes (range 15-345), and mean mobile coronary care unit response time was 12.3 +/- 7 (SD) minutes (range 5-45). The majority of cases (65 of 94, 69.1 per cent) were seen within two hours of the onset of symptoms. A final diagnosis of myocardial infarction was made in 48 of 94 (51.1 per cent) cases; 38 had unstable angina and eight other diagnoses. Of the 48 with myocardial infarction the initial ECG showed ST segment elevation in 37, ST depression and or T wave inversion in six, Q waves only in three and left bundle branch block in two. No patient with an initially normal ECG had a myocardial infarction. Thrombolytic therapy was given out of hospital to 33 of 38 patients with ST segment elevation. In seven patients with ST elevation (median delay time to intensive care 60 minutes), rapid resolution of ST segment elevation occurred following thrombolytic therapy and there was no significant elevation of cardiac enzymes, suggesting that the infarct had been aborted. 
Fluoroscopically guided nasoenteric feeding tube placement: results of a 1-year study. Nasoenteric tube feeding is a widely used alternative to parenteral intravenous nutritional support or gastrostomy tube placement. Unmonitored tube passage may result in complications and delays the beginning of tube feedings. The authors studied the results of 882 fluoroscopically guided feeding tube placements in 448 patients in 1 year to determine rates of success and complications, as well as the long-term outcome of this population of patients. Seven hundred sixty-four attempts (86.6%) were successful in positioning the tube distal to the third portion of the duodenum. Four major complications (three fatal arrhythmias and one tracheobronchial injury) were encountered. Only seven patients (2%) experienced aspiration events that were due to positioning of the tube in the distal duodenum. Seventy-seven percent of patients required either one or two tubes; the average "tube life" was 7.8 days. Most repositionings were required because of patient noncompliance or inappropriate administration of solid medications. Fluoroscopically guided nasoenteric tube passage is safe, easily performed, and highly successful, and has resulted in widespread clinical acceptance in our institution. 
Blood flow reactivity to hypercapnia in strictly unilateral carotid disease: preliminary results. To show relationship between degree of carotid arterial stenosis and cerebral blood flow reactivity (RES%) to induced hypercapnia, fluorine-18-fluoromethane and positron emission tomography (PET) was used to study 18 patients with carotid distribution transient ischaemic attacks (TIA), all free of stroke, who had angiographic-proven unilateral arterial disease. Non-involved carotid arteries were either normal or had non-stenotic plaque. Either normal arteries or nonstenotic ulcerations in the symptomatic carotid arteries were present in five of 18 (28%), ipsilateral carotid stenosis from 50-99% was present in eight of 18 (44%), and ipsilateral internal carotid occlusion was present in five of 18 (28%) patients. In comparison with 14 normal controls, all patients with symptomatic middle cerebral artery (MCA) flow territories had significantly lower mean (SEM) RES% [5.0' (0.2) vs 4.0 (0.9), p less than 0.04]. Symptomatic anterior borderzone (ABZ) RES% was also significantly lower [4.6 (0.4) vs 3.3 (0.9), p less than 0.04], than controls. In patient subgroup comparisons, the 50-99% stenosis subgroup clearly had the lowest MCA RES% [3.4 (0.2)] as well as the lowest ABZ RES% [2.8 (0.4)] on their symptomatic sides. Age, expired pCO2, mean arterial blood pressure, serum glucose, serum haematocrit and number, type and estimated duration of TIAs were not significantly different between subgroups. Linear regression showed a significant relationship between RES% and both measured percentage-stenosis (p = 0.04) and residual luminal diameter (p = 0.05) in symptomatic MCA territories. This approached significance in symptomatic ABZ regions. This preliminary data set suggests that unilateral carotid stenosis can and does result in impaired CO2 reactivity following hypercapnia. 
Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in two patients with basilar artery occlusion. Two patients with angiographically proved basilar artery occlusion were treated with systemic recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) according to protocol. The first patient was in a locked-in state and gradually deteriorated. On repeat angiography the basilar artery remained occluded. He died and necropsy revealed a pontine haemorrhagic infarction. The second patient, who was comatose and with decerebrate posturing, made a remarkable recovery. Angiography showed reperfusion. Therapy was initiated in the first patient after six hours and in the second after two hours. Treatment with rtPA is promising but probably not feasible for every patient. Success may depend on duration of occlusion and composition of occluding thrombus. 
Acalculous biliary pain: cholecystectomy alleviates symptoms in patients with abnormal cholescintigraphy. A 45-minute infusion of an octapeptide of cholecystokinin (Kinevac; Squibb Diagnostics, New Brunswick, NJ) was used to measure the gallbladder ejection fraction during cholescintigraphy in 40 normal volunteers. Cholecystokinin cholescintigraphy was shown to be a reproducible test. The maximum mean gallbladder ejection fraction occurred 15 minutes after cholecystokinin infusion and was 74.5% +/- 1.9% (mean +/- SEM). A gallbladder ejection fraction greater than 40% (mean -3SD) was arbitrarily defined to be normal. The gallbladder ejection fraction test was then used to identify patients with acalculous biliary symptoms who may respond to cholecystectomy. A total of 103 patients was tested; 21 had abnormal gallbladder ejection fractions and were randomized into two groups, cholecystectomy or no operation. These patients were followed up symptomatically at 3-month intervals for 13-54 months (mean, 34 months). Of the 11 patients who underwent cholecystectomy, 10 (91%) lost their symptoms and 1 improved. Of the 10 patients in the group that did not undergo surgery, all continued to be symptomatic, 2 of whom requested cholecystectomy after 13 and 24 months, respectively. Of the 13 gallbladders obtained from surgery, 12 showed evidence of chronic cholecystitis, muscle hypertrophy, and/or narrowed cystic duct. A normal gallbladder ejection fraction was recorded in 82 patients, and further treatment was left to the discretion of their referring clinician. On follow-up, 50 patients were asymptomatic and 10 were symptomatic without specific treatment of the biliary tract; 14 underwent cholecystectomy, 8 of whom were asymptomatic. Pathological abnormalities were recorded in 6 of the removed gallbladders. It is concluded that the gallbladder ejection fraction obtained after a 45-minute infusion of cholecystokinin during cholescintigraphy is a reproducible measure of gallbladder emptying, and that cholecystectomy alleviates the biliary-type pain of patients with a reduced gallbladder ejection fraction. 
Automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: is early implantation cost-effective? The evaluation of survivors of sudden cardiac death with serial electrophysiologic studies involves a lengthy and expensive hospitalization, especially when an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is ultimately necessary. The cost efficacy of this conventional approach was therefore compared with direct implantation of a cardioverter-defibrillator after the first electrophysiologic study. Thirty-two survivors of sudden death who had inducible ventricular tachycardia during their initial electrophysiologic study underwent serial drug trials. At discharge 12 (37%) were taking an antiarrhythmic drug found to prevent induction of ventricular tachycardia and 20 underwent cardioverter-defibrillator implantation after serial drug trials proved ineffective. The average length of hospitalization for this group that had undergone serial drug testing was 20.2 +/- 9.3 days at an average cost of $48,900 +/- $31,600. Seven survivors of sudden death had no inducible ventricular tachycardia during their initial electrophysiologic study and underwent direct cardioverter-defibrillator implantation. Their average length of hospitalization was 12.6 +/- 6.2 days at an average cost of $40,400 +/- $8,300. It is concluded that automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation as an early intervention is not more costly and indeed may be cost-effective compared with therapy guided by serial electrophysiologic testing. As antitachycardia devices become more versatile, long lived and easier to implant, earlier implantation is likely to compare even more favorably with drug therapy. 
Increased dietary branched-chain amino acids do not improve growth in developing rats with chronic biliary obstruction. We studied dietary branched-chain amino acid enrichment in cholestatic weanling rats. Growth was assessed with body weight, muscle weight and nitrogen balance. Systemic metabolic measurements that reflect liver function were evaluated, including plasma ammonia, albumin, amino acids, glucose, triglyceride and branched-chain ketoacids, as well as urinary carnitine excretion. Twenty-two rats underwent bile-duct ligation at 14 d of age. At weaning, 11 rats were fed a control diet and 11 an isoenergetic, isonitrogenous branched-chain amino acid-enriched diet for 3 wk, each with a sham-operated, pair-fed control. Body weights were similar in all four groups. Changes due to bile-duct ligation and not affected by the diet manipulation included lower plasma glucose, nitrogen balance and muscle weight, and higher triglyceride concentration, carnitine excretion and liver weight. Changes due to ligation that were normalized by dietary manipulation included plasma albumin, ammonia and total amino acid concentrations. The ratio of branched-chain to aromatic amino acids was decreased in ligated animals fed both diets; however, branched-chain amino acids were lower in the two groups fed more branched-chain amino acids. 
Disturbance in sodium regulating hormones in chronic obstructive uropathy. Serum atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), plasma renin activity (PRA), angiotensin II (AII) and aldosterone levels have been studied in patients with chronic bilateral ureteric obstruction resulting from high pressure chronic retention of urine (HPCR), both in the obstructed state and during the post-obstructed period. Increased ANP levels observed during chronic obstruction fell rapidly following urinary tract decompression by urethral catheterisation. Serum ANP resurged briefly within 24 h but stabilised thereafter at a lower level. PRA was initially suppressed but rose after catheterisation, the increase lagging behind the changes seen for ANP. Rising levels of AII and aldosterone followed this trend but, unlike PRA, levels were not completely suppressed in the obstructed state. The observed hormonal changes probably reflect homeostatic mechanisms directed to the maintenance of sodium and water balance during obstruction and to limitation of the diuresis following its relief. 
Repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. A statewide experience. The results of elective treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms are excellent in many institutions. To our knowledge, however, no study has compared the results in a large geographic area in which patients were treated by a variety of surgeons and hospitals. We studied the results of repairing abdominal aortic aneurysms for all Medicare recipients during a single year in Kentucky. One hundred thirty-six operations were performed by 52 surgeons in 31 hospitals. Overall operative mortality was 18%; elective and emergency operative mortality rates were 6% and 49%, respectively. Advancing age did not affect outcome, but mortality due to ruptured aneurysms was higher in smaller hospitals than in larger hospitals. The low mortality for elective repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms in an elderly population by numerous surgeons in divergent hospitals is a strong indication for its liberal use compared with the high mortality and morbidity of emergency surgery. 
Empowering potential: a theory of wellness motivation. Data were collected from 29 individuals who were attempting to initiate and sustain programs of cardiac risk factor modification. Data were analyzed through the technique of constant comparative analysis. Empowering potential, the basic social process identified from the data, explained individual motivation to initiate and sustain cardiovascular health behavior. Empowering potential was a continuous process of individual growth and development which facilitated the emergence of new and positive health patterns. Within the process of empowering potential, individuals use a variety of strategies which guide the initiation and maintenance of health-related change. The process of empowering potential consists of three stages: appraising readiness, changing, and integrating change. Two categories occurred throughout the process of empowering potential: imaging and social support systems. These findings provide a better understanding of how motivated action is initiated and reinitiated over time. 
Effects of urokinase receptor occupancy on plasmin generation and proteolysis of basement membrane by human tumor cells. The goal of the present study was to assess the relative importance of receptor-bound and secreted plasminogen activator urokinase (u-PA) in generating cell-surface plasmin and fostering destruction of normal tissue by tumor cells. We first showed that active site-inhibited u-PA could displace endogenous u-PA from the surface of the human colon adenocarcinoma cell line HCT 116. We then prepared expression vectors for u-PA and for a mutant molecule in which the codon for the active site serine residue was changed to encode alanine. Expression of non-functional mutant u-PA decreased the level of cell-bound active u-PA by more than 95% via a mechanism that involved competition for receptor sites. Decreased cell-surface u-PA activity was associated with a decrease in cell-bound plasmin activity to undetectable levels, suggesting that receptor-bound u-PA plays an important role in the generation of plasmin on the cell surface. Transfectants that secreted eightfold to 20-fold elevated levels of active wild-type u-PA showed approximately 50% increases in cell-associated u-PA and only twofold to fourfold increases in cell-associated plasmin, suggesting that the role of secreted u-PA in generating cell-surface plasmin activity was relatively minor. In parent cells and both types of transfectants there was a good correlation between the amount of plasmin bound to the tumor cell surface and the extent to which a basement membrane substrate was degraded. These studies show that receptor-bound u-PA provides an efficient mechanism for plasmin generation on the surface of tumor cells, which, in turn, contributes significantly to their degradative potential. 
Impaired binding properties of thyroxine-binding globulin in hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease. To determine the factors underlying the apparent reduction in binding ability of thyroxine-binding globulin in hepatocellular carcinoma, hormone-binding characteristics were further examined in patients with this disease and in control subjects. No differences in affinity constants with respect to triodothyronine or serum thyroxine-binding globulin from hepatocellular carcinoma, cirrhotic and normal subjects were found. The affinity for thyroxine was significantly reduced in hepatocellular carcinoma (0.41 +/- 0.13 x 10(10) mol-1) and cirrhotic (0.65 +/- 0.1 x 10(10) mol-1) patients compared with normal subjects (0.94 +/- 0.7 x 10(10) mol-1). Investigations carried out on liver tissue obtained from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver disease showed that thyroxine-binding globulin within tumor tissue was elevated and bound less exogenous tracer hormone compared with that obtained from nontumor tissue. Tumor-derived thyroxine-binding globulin with altered binding properties is, at least partly, responsible for the abnormal behavior of the serum protein in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Isradipine twice daily lowers blood pressure over 24 H. The objective of this study was to compare the effects of isradipine and placebo on blood pressure (BP) at the end of the dosing interval ('trough'). Following a three-week placebo period, 187 patients who had previously shown a response to treatment with isradipine (based on office BP measurements) were randomized to double-blind treatment with 2.5 mg isradipine twice daily or placebo for six weeks. Four of these patients withdrew from the study during the double-blind phase because of adverse events (one taking isradipine and three taking placebo). Blood pressure during the double-blind study was always measured 12 h after drug administration (trough values). The rate of normalization [defined as diastolic BP (DBP) less than or equal to 90 mm Hg] was 52/96 (54%) in the isradipine-treated group compared with 30/87 (33%) in the placebo group. A further 12/96 (12%) patients taking isradipine showed a fall in DBP of greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg, although their DBP was still not less than 90 mm Hg, compared with 5/87 (6%) patients receiving placebo. This difference was statistically significant (P = .003). Thus, isradipine in a dose of 2.5 mg twice daily lowers blood pressure over 24 h. 
Chimeric BCR-abl messenger RNA as a marker for minimal residual disease in patients transplanted for Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We correlated polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-detectable BCR-abl fusion transcripts with cytogenetic status in 24 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Of 10 Philadelphia chromosome negative (Ph-) patients, only one was found to exhibit a BCR-abl fusion transcript. Fourteen patients with Ph+ ALL, including eight in clinical remission, exhibited PCR-detectable BCR-abl rearrangements. A detectable Ph chromosome was present in only five of the eight patients in clinical remission. Of the three cytogenetically negative, BCR-abl-positive patients, two eventually succumbed to post-bone marrow transplantation (BMT) relapse. The third died of early transplant complications. Serial PCR analyses were performed on four Ph+ ALL patients in clinical remission who underwent allogeneic BMT. One patient who was PCR negative on post-BMT days 21 and 75 became PCR-positive on day 116 and died in relapse on day 154. One patient was weakly positive for BCR-abl on day 23, negative on day 56, but died of transplant complications on day 124. Two patients exhibited no post-BMT BCR-abl rearrangements and remain well on days 279 and 371. Our findings suggest that PCR analysis may be useful in the early identification of relapse in patients transplanted for Ph+ ALL. 
The "make/break test" as a diagnostic tool in functional weakness. Strength was measured in four major muscle groups with a hand-held dynamometer. The "make" and "break" technique was used with and without encouragement, and fatiguability was tested in patients with organic weakness and patients with functional weakness. Patients with functional weakness could be distinguished from the other two groups by an increase in strength greater than 20% with the break compared with the make technique. Additionally they tend to show larger increases in strength with encouragement and their "fatiguability" was less. 
Localized recurrent postoperative pernio associated with leukocytoclastic vasculitis. A patient with recurrent pernio of the right ankle for 21 years after surgery had a leukocytoclastic vasculitis localized in the area. We suggest that the various histologic descriptions of pernio in the literature and in this case represent different levels of severity of the disease. 
Early hepatocellular carcinoma: MR imaging. All areas in hepatic lesions designated as adenomatous hyperplasia (AH) with malignant foci have recently been recognized as cancer. AH with malignant foci can be classified into two types, depending on the presence of overt cancerous nodules. Lesions without macroscopic nodules are defined as early hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), while those with a macroscopic component are defined as HCC with early components. A comparative study of early HCC and HCC with early components was performed with magnetic resonance imaging. Early HCC lesions (n = 20) were isointense (n = 11) and hyperintense (n = 9) on T1-weighted spin-echo images and isointense (n = 17), partially hyperintense (n = 2), or hypointense (n = 1) on T2-weighted spin-echo images relative to the surrounding liver. Lesions classified as HCC with early components (n = 8) were hyperintense (n = 5), isointense (n = 2), and of mixed signal intensity (n = 1) on T2-weighted images. T1-weighted imaging was superior to T2-weighted imaging in depicting early HCC, but the latter could be useful in evaluating the progression of HCC in the histopathologically early stages. 
Heart disease in blacks of Africa and the Caribbean. Cardiovascular pathology in African and Afro-Caribbean blacks features three major conditions: hypertension, rheumatic heart disease, and the cardiomyopathies. Ischemic heart disease is as yet distinctly uncommon in these societies but the adoption of Western lifestyle and its inevitable risk factors for atherosclerosis makes it likely that coronary artery disease will emerge ultimately. Hypertension poses special problems in these regions--its prevalence rate is high both in rural and urban settings, its consequences devastating in its severity of target organ involvement, and its management strategy complicated by the high cost of drugs, poor patient compliance, and the lack of clinical resources for effective monitoring of detected and referred cases. Rheumatic heart disease remains an eminently preventable condition. The ultimate strategy lies in improving the quality of life in these communities through adequate housing, sanitation, and health education, and integrating primary prophylaxis into national health care programs to forestall the development of rheumatic fever. Cardiomyopathy poses the greatest challenge as its etiology remains elusive. Its dilated form has been linked with Toxoplasma and with Coxsackie B viruses, but hard evidence of a cause-effect relationship is still lacking. 
Breast conservation therapy. Severe breast fibrosis after radiation therapy in patients with collagen vascular disease. Two patients with collagen vascular disease (rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma) had extremely poor cosmetic results after breast radiation therapy (RT). The patient with rheumatoid arthritis received 5251 cGy at 210 cGy per day, followed by a 1600 cGy iridium-192 implant boost. Between 8 and 11 months post-RT she had severe breast fibrosis, retraction, and pain that required a mastectomy for relief. The patient with scleroderma received 5040 cGy at 180 cGy per day without a boost. Between 1 and 4 months post-RT the systemic symptoms of scleroderma progressed and the breast became hard and retracted. Both rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma are chronic systemic diseases characterized by severe inflammation and an autoimmune component. The presence of scleroderma at or before treatment should be considered a contraindication to breast RT, whereas the presence of active rheumatoid arthritis should be considered a relative contraindication. An autoimmune mechanism will be presented to explain both the fibrosis and the systemic progression of collagen vascular disease that was observed. 
Outcome after emergency surgery for cancer of the large intestine. The data for 77 patients with colorectal cancer who underwent emergency surgery for acute intestinal obstruction (57 patients) or perforation (20 patients) within 24 h of admission were evaluated. The patients were older and had more advanced disease than patients undergoing elective surgery for colorectal cancer. Emergency surgery for carcinoma of the right colon consisted of primary resection in 95 per cent of cases and was followed by a 28 per cent mortality rate. Perforated tumours of the left colon and rectum were managed by primary resection in 82 per cent of cases with a 22 per cent mortality rate. In contrast, obstructing tumours of the left colon and rectum were treated by primary resection in 38 per cent of cases with a 6 per cent mortality rate, and by primary decompression in 62 per cent of cases with a 25 per cent mortality rate. The overall postoperative mortality rate was 23 per cent and increased with advanced tumour disease, perforation and peritonitis. Cardiac decompensation and intraabdominal sepsis were the major causes of death. Although the long-term survival rate following emergency surgery was worse than after elective surgery, improvements in outcome should be achieved by better management of the initial emergency situation. 
Serial gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans in patients with early, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis: implications for clinical trials and natural history. Six patients with early, mild, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis were studied with monthly gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans for 8 to 11 months. Numerous enhancing lesions were observed irrespective of clinical activity. Four of the 6 patients had one or more enhancing lesions present on each examination. The other 2 patients had enhancing lesions noted in 7 and 9 of 11 months. In contrast, only two clinical exacerbations were observed during the study period. Neither the exacerbations nor other changes in symptoms or signs correlated with occurrence of the enhancing lesions. Enhancement generally persisted for less than 1 month. The opening of the blood-brain barrier as reflected by gadolinium enhancement on magnetic resonance imaging may represent ongoing disease activity in patients with mild, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis who are clinically stable. The frequency of these lesions appears to be sufficient to use as an outcome measure in clinical trials testing clinical efficacy in patients with early, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Diagnostic sensitivity of polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot hybridization for the detection of human papillomavirus DNA in biopsy specimens from cervical lesions. Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are associated with benign and malignant neoplasms of the cervix. One of the criteria for their etiologic role requires an assessment of whether virtually all or only a small fraction of lesions contain viral genomes. DNA preparations from colposcopically directed punch biopsies of cervical lesions were analyzed by Southern blot hybridization and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the presence of HPV DNA. The biopsy specimens represented different pathologic entities (koilocytosis, condyloma, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, and invasive carcinoma). In Southern blot hybridization with radioactive probes for HPV 11, 16, 18, 31, and 33, HPV DNA was detected in 74% of the biopsy specimens (42 of 57 cases), with the predominant types being HPV 16 and HPV 18. In contrast, after PCR amplification with primers yielding fragments of characteristic size for HPV 11, 16, and 18, the analysis of the same 57 biopsy specimens revealed that all samples were positive for at least one HPV type. To exclude false-positive PCR results, controls without HPV DNA were interspersed at regular intervals, and results were evaluated only if these controls remained HPV negative. To exclude false-negative results due to failure of the reaction, a target sequence within the c-Ha-ras-1 gene was used as an internal control. All HPV typing results obtained by Southern blot hybridization were in agreement with HPV typing by PCR. The higher number of positive samples in the latter analysis stems from the increased sensitivity of PCR, which was which was effective in identifying as few as 10-100 HPV DNA molecules; in contrast, the sensitivity of Southern blot hybridization was 1 pg, or approximately 10(5) molecules of HPV DNA. The authors conclude that, with sufficiently sensitive diagnostic methods, HPV DNA can be detected in most, if not all, neoplastic cervical lesions. 
bcl-1 rearrangement. Frequency and clinical significance among B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The authors investigated the structural organization of the bcl-1 locus, a putative oncogene associated with reciprocal chromosomal translocation t(11;14), by Southern blot hybridization analysis and its frequency, distribution, and prognostic significance in a panel of 156 clinically and pathologically well-defined B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias (CLLs) and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs). The authors detected bcl-1 rearrangements in only 2 of 42 CLLs and 4 of 114 NHLs, specifically 3 of 29 diffuse small lymphocytic and 1 of 10 diffuse small cleaved cell and none of 5 diffuse intermediate lymphocytic, 13 follicular predominantly small cleaved, 17 follicular mixed small cleaved and large cell, 4 diffuse mixed small and large cell, 26 diffuse large cell, and 10 diffuse small noncleaved cell lymphomas. None of seven cases of Rai stage III or IV CLL or seven diffuse large cell lymphomas occurring as Richter's syndrome exhibited bcl-1 rearrangements. In conclusion, the bcl-1 locus rearranges in only about 4% of B-cell CLLs and NHLs, is predominantly rearranged in low-grade B-cell neoplasms, and does not appear to be preferentially associated with those occasional CLLs and low-grade NHLs displaying clinical aggressiveness, advanced clinical stage, or large cell transformation (Richter's syndrome). Therefore the demonstration of bcl-1 rearrangement does not appear to have clinically useful prognostic significance. 
Modifications of the nasal cycle in patients with hypothalamic disorders: Kallmann's syndrome. The nasal cycle is a phenomenon characterized by cyclic changes in the airflow resistance of each nasal fossa from congestion or constriction of the nasal erectile tissue. This phenomenon is caused by alterations in the influence exerted by the autonomic nervous system and is believed to be regulated by a hypothalamic center. In order to verify this hypothesis on the hypothalamic regulation of the nasal cycle, the authors studied a group of subjects with Kallmann's syndrome. This disorder is characterized by coexisting hypothalamic hypogonadism and hyposmia or anosmia due to hypothalamic and olfactory center hypoplasia. An anomalous nasal cycle was found in all the subjects with Kallmann's syndrome. This disorder might be related to hypothalamus atrophy. 
Abdominal musculature abnormalities as a cause of groin pain in athletes. Inguinal hernias and pubalgia. There has been increasing interest within the European sports medicine community regarding the etiology and treatment of groin pain in the athlete. Groin pain is most commonly caused by musculotendinous strains of the adductors and other muscles crossing the hip joint, but may also be related to abdominal wall abnormalities. Cases may be termed "pubalgia" if physical examination does not reveal inguinal hernia and there is an absence of other etiology for groin pain. We present nine cases of patients who underwent herniorrhaphies for groin pain. Two patients had groin pain without evidence of a hernia preoperatively (pubalgia). In the remaining seven patients we determined the presence of a hernia by physical examination. At operation, eight patients were found to have inguinal hernias. One patient had no hernia but had partial avulsion of the internal oblique fibers from their insertion at the public tubercle. The average interval from operation to return to full activity was 11 weeks. All patients returned to full activity within 3 months of surgery. One patient had persistent symptoms of mild incisional tenderness, but otherwise there were no recurrences, complications, or persistence of symptoms. Abnormalities of the abdominal wall, including inguinal hernias and microscopic tears or avulsions of the internal oblique muscle, can be an overlooked source of groin pain in the athlete. Operative treatment of this condition with herniorrhaphy can return the athlete to his sport within 3 months. 
The influence of smoking on complications after primary amputations of the lower extremity. A total of 165 primary above-the-knee (AK) and below-the-knee (BK) amputations in 137 patients were reviewed retrospectively. Of the 77 patients who smoked, 44 smoked cigarettes, 30 cheroots, and three a pipe. There were 88 nonsmokers. At the time of surgery, the smokers were on average 6.4 years younger than the nonsmokers. The review revealed no discrepancy between smokers and nonsmokers with regard to amputation level, the BK to AK ratio being 2:1. In cigarette smokers the risk of infection and reamputation was 2:5 times higher than in cheroot smokers or nonsmokers. The poor results obtained in cigarette smokers may be ascribed to the fact that this group of patients smoked during the phase of healing and that only cigarette smokers tend to inhale. Inhalation of smoke leads to high concentrations of nicotine, which compromise the cutaneous blood-flow velocity and increase the risk of the formation of microthrombi. Consequently, amputees should abstain from cigarette smoking during the phase of healing. Preferably, the habit should be broken one week before surgery, which is the requisite period for the process of coagulation and the fibrinogen level to normalize and for free radicals to be eliminated. 
Surgical management of metastatic renal carcinoma of the spine. A total of 33 patients with renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the spine underwent spinal decompression over a 5-year period; 20 were operated on for neurologic dysfunction, and the remainder for pain alone. Surgery was performed anteriorly in 21, posteriorly in 9, and combined in 3 cases. The surgical approach was determined by the preoperative anatomic localization of the tumor. Of these patients 88% had fusions with instrumentation and polymethylmethacrylate; 88% of patients had partial or complete relief of pain; and 64% of bedridden patients subsequently were able to walk. Neurologic function improved in 60% of patients with a neurologic deficit; however, only 36% of incontinent patients regained bladder control. Survival averaged 8.0 +/- 1.5 months. Survival correlated with the degree of neurologic dysfunction and the presence of other known metastases. Recurrent cord compression developed in 49% of patients, usually at the same level; 9 of these 16 patients had repeat decompression, with similar operative results as the primary procedure in terms of pain and neurologic function. Blood loss was variable but often significant. Preoperative embolization appeared to be beneficial. Precise tumor localization preoperatively directing the surgical approach and better patient selection would likely improve results and decrease morbidity. Good palliation appeared to be achieved in regards to both pain relief and improved neurologic function. 
Identification of colon cancer-predisposed individuals: a cytogenetic analysis. Peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures from 23 individuals with polyps and 10 age-matched controls were cytogenetically studied. Of 23 individuals with polyps, 13 were males and 10 females. The age distribution of these patients was between 22 and 84 yr, with a medium age of 49.6 yr. Chromosome 5 was involved in structural rearrangements in 10 of the 18 patients with adenomatous polyps (55.5%). All those who showed involvement of chromosome 5 alterations had either adenomatous polyps or Gardner's syndrome, and two had colon adenocarcinoma. Of the remainder who did not show involvement of chromosome 5, eight had adenomatous polyps and five had hyerplastic polyps (non-neoplastic). Of the 10 control samples, only one showed alteration of chromosome 5. Of the 10 adenomatous polyp subjects that showed chromosome 5 defects, two had translocations of chromosome 5 and the short arm of 17. Chromosome 5 was broken 13 times (5 times in the q arm and 8 times in the p arm). Based on our present cytogenetic data, we tentatively conclude that lymphocyte metaphases may be used to identify colon cancer-predisposed individuals. 
Attenuation of myocardial ischemia during coronary occlusion by ultrashort-acting beta adrenergic blockade. To assess the effect of the ultrashort-acting beta blocker esmolol on ischemia induced by acute coronary occlusion, we studied 16 patients undergoing coronary angioplasty. Doppler echocardiography and ECG monitoring were performed continuously before, during, and after balloon occlusion in the drug-free state and during esmolol infusion. Fourteen of the 16 patients had ST segment elevation during balloon inflation. However, maximal ST segment elevation (2.1 +/- 1.5 mm vs 1.7 +/- 1.3 mm, p less than 0.001) and duration of ST segment elevation (68 +/- 20 seconds vs 54 +/- 19 seconds, p less than 0.05) were both significantly reduced during esmolol infusion. Furthermore, the decrease in ejection fraction seen during drug-free balloon occlusions was significantly blunted during esmolol infusion. In the baseline state ejection fraction decreased from 55% to 38% (p less than 0.05) during coronary occlusion compared with a decrease from 52% to 49% (p = NS) during esmolol infusion. In addition, esmolol appeared to delay the onset of segmental wall motion abnormalities after coronary occlusion, occurring at a mean of 40 seconds after balloon inflation versus a mean of 31 seconds in the absence of beta blockade (p less than 0.05). Thus the use of ultrashort-acting beta blockade appears to diminish the extent and delay the onset of myocardial ischemia during acute coronary occlusion. 
Uterine leiomyoma with skeletal muscle differentiation. Report of a case. Skeletal muscle differentiation is reported in a uterine leiomyoma from a 54-year-old woman. Evidence of rhabdomyoblastic features included a typical light microscopic appearance, immunoreactivity with antimyoglobin antibodies by immunoperoxidase studies, and the presence of myofibrils by electron microscopic examination. The patient is well more than two years after surgery. 
Treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy with intravenous etidronate. A controlled, multicenter study. The Hypercalcemia Study Group In a prospective, randomized, double-blind, multicenter study, 202 patients with cancer from 19 medical centers were treated for hypercalcemia of malignancy with daily intravenous infusions of etidronate disodium (136 patients) or saline alone (66 patients) for 3 consecutive days. Patients also received up to 3.25 L of saline daily during the treatment period. Of 157 patients for whom data could be evaluated for efficacy, 63% (72/114) of etidronate-treated and 33% (14/43) of saline-treated patients had a normalization of total serum calcium levels. When serum calcium levels were adjusted for albumin (147 assessable patients), 24% of the etidronate- and 7% of the saline-treated patients responded to treatment. No serious side effects or treatment-related deaths occurred. When accompanied by adequate hydration and diuresis, intravenous etidronate was safe and more effective than hydration and diuresis alone in controlling hypercalcemia of malignancy. 
The efficacy of fiberoptic endoscopic examination and biopsy in the detection of early nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Fiberoptic endoscopic examination and biopsy of the nasopharynx was done in 130 patients as a prospective study. They all had elevated titers of antibodies against the viral capsid antigen of Epstein-Barr virus but no symptoms or signs of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Each underwent a biopsy from six fixed sites in the nasopharynx. Of the 780 biopsy specimens taken from seven patients, 11 showed the presence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Techniques to improve the yields of such biopsies with fiberoptic endoscopy are discussed. The presence of tumor was unrelated to the macroscopic endoscopic findings. The highest incidence of subclinical tumor is in the pharyngeal recess. 
Intravascular papillary endothelial hyperplasia of superior vena cava: a rare cause of the superior vena cava syndrome. The superior vena cava syndrome associated with an intraluminal vascular proliferative lesion is extremely rare. A case of intravascular papillary endothelial hyperplasia of the superior vena cava causing obstructive symptoms is reported that was successfully managed by surgical excision. 
Different metastasis patterns of a human melanoma cell line in nude mice and rats: influence of microenvironment. The metastatic capacity of intravenously injected human FEMX-I melanoma cells in athymic nude mice and rats was compared. Young rats given 1 x 10(6) ascites tumor cells all died of lung tumors with a life span of 50 +/- 10 days (mean +/- SD). In contrast, in accordance with previous findings, only extrapulmonary metastases developed in mice. This host-dependent difference in metastasis pattern permitted studies on the role of factors that may influence the organ specificity of metastases. The tissue distribution of 125I-labeled FEMX-I cells did not differ in the two nude species during the first 12 hours after cell injection. The plating efficiency of FEMX-I cells in soft agar was increased by the addition of conditioned medium prepared from rat lungs, resulting also in a significant increase in colony size. In contrast, conditioned medium prepared from mouse lungs reduced the clonogenic capacity of the FEMX-I cells in a dose-dependent manner. Conditioned media prepared from rat and mouse liver, kidney, and spleen tissues either inhibited or had no effect on colony formation. The results suggest that the unexpected differential metastatic patterns observed in vivo may reflect differences in the presence of growth-modulating paracrine factors in the host lungs. 
Body weight is more important than family history of hypertension for left ventricular function. Left ventricular function was studied in young men with a positive family history of hypertension for two generations (n = 15). The findings were compared with three control groups: one age-, sex-, and weight-matched group with a negative family history of hypertension (n = 14); one normotensive control group unselected as regards family history of hypertension (n = 27); and one group also unselected regarding family history of hypertension but selected with blood pressure criteria to have mild blood pressure elevation (n = 59). The group with a positive family history of hypertension, in comparison with the normotensive control group, was heavier, had higher blood pressure, increased left ventricular wall thickness, increased left ventricular mass, and signs of changes in diastolic and systolic left ventricular function. There were no differences in these variables between the group with a positive family history and the other two control groups. Data clearly indicated that subjects with a positive family history of hypertension, as well as subjects with mild blood pressure elevation, were heavier than the normotensive control group. It is not possible to judge, with available data, if the changes in left ventricular morphology and function in the two groups with a different family history of hypertension and in the group with mild blood pressure elevation occurred as a physiological response to the increase in afterload or if the neurohormonal and metabolic disturbances leading to the condition of slight overweight also affected left ventricular function. 
Noninvasive identification of significant narrowing of the left main coronary artery by dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy. To evaluate the usefulness of dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy with low-level exercise for the identification of left main (LM) coronary artery disease (CAD), 466 consecutive patients with CAD were studied. Thirty-eight patients (8%) had LM stenosis (diameter narrowing greater than or equal to 50%). The LM scintigraphic pattern was present in 9 of 38 patients with LMCAD and 38 of 428 CAD patients without LMCAD (24 vs 9%; p less than 0.005). This pattern was present in 6 of 9 patients with LMCAD without right CAD and in only 3 of 29 patients with LM and right CAD (67 vs 10%; p = 0.0005). Patients with LMCAD had a higher incidence of premature cessation of low-level exercise (53 vs 21%; p less than 0.0001), chest pain (68 vs 48%; p less than 0.02), blood pressure decrease of greater than or equal to 20 mm Hg (44 vs 16%; p less than 0.002) and greater ST depression (0.17 +/- 0.13 vs 0.06 +/- 0.10 mV; p less than 0.001) during dipyridamole loading than patients without LMCAD. Stepwise discriminant analysis revealed that the LM scintigraphic pattern and markers of ischemia during dipyridamole loading best identified (p less than 0.0001) patients with LMCAD without right CAD (sensitivity 67%, specificity 91%), but this predictability is no better than the LM scintigraphic pattern alone. The combination of clinical markers of ischemia during dipyridamole loading and scintigraphic findings of diffuse slow washout, extensive fixed defects and the LM pattern best identified (p less than 0.0001) patients with LM and right CAD (sensitivity 72%, specificity 80%). 
Ankle arthrodesis in children. The indications, surgical technique, and long-term functional results for ankle arthrodesis differ between children and adults. In children, the reasons for performing a tibiotalar fusion include pain, most commonly from traumatic and septic arthritis, and instability from congenital anomalies or paralytic disorders. The most appropriate procedure is Chuinard's fusion, which achieves a tibiotalar fusion without causing a growth arrest of the distal tibial growth plate. In the long term, young patients with ankle arthrodesis function very well with minimal pain or disability. Stressful activities such as hill climbing, stair climbing, and running may be restricted or require compensatory movements. 
Receptor function in heart failure. In patients with congestive heart failure, down-regulation of beta-adrenoceptors is present, probably as a result of sympathetic overstimulation. In end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy, beta 1-adrenoceptor density is markedly reduced, while beta 2-adrenoceptor density is normal. This latter finding does not necessarily imply normal sensitivity to beta 2-stimulation, due to possible alterations in the beta-adrenoceptor/adenylate cyclase complex beyond the receptor. In some disease states, such as ischemic cardiomyopathy and mitral valve disease, there seems to be a concomitant reduction of the beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptor density. The finding of beta-adrenoceptor down-regulation has stimulated the search for novel therapeutic approaches in heart failure patients. Beta-agonists could even further down-regulate beta receptors, and this perhaps explains why they seem not to be useful in long-term use. Agents that directly stimulate adenylate cyclase activity, such as forskolin, or that increase cyclic adenosine monophosphate degradation, such as the phosphodiesterase inhibitors, are being tested. Beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents were used in treatment of heart failure before beta-adrenoceptor down-regulation was recognized in these patients. It is tempting to speculate that the beneficial clinical and hemodynamic effects seen in these patients treated with metoprolol is indeed due to an antagonism of the beta-adrenoceptor down-regulation. Studies testing whether beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents can improve survival in congestive heart failure patients are on-going. 
An unknown syndrome of nose deformity, oxycephaly, aplasia of the nasolacrimal ducts, and symmetrical cyst formation on the upper lip in siblings: craniorhiny. An unknown syndrome of oxycephaly, nose deformity, hair growth on the skin at the base of the nose, symmetrical cyst formation on the upper lip, and aplasia of the nasolacrimal ducts in a mother and her three children is presented. This syndrome showed autosomal dominant inheritance. All three children were operated on. Oxycephaly and lip deformity in two of the children and hypertelorism that existed in addition to the other anomalies in the third were all corrected. All corrective surgery was performed during a single session for each child. 
Thrombolytic therapy for myocardial infarction: assessment of efficacy by myocardial perfusion imaging with technetium-99m sestamibi. Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi has been used to evaluate the efficacy of thrombolytic therapy. Improved image quality due to the higher photon energy of Tc-99m and the increased allowable doses of this radiopharmaceutical along with its lack of redistribution makes Tc-99m sestamibi an acceptable imaging agent for such studies. This imaging agent was used for serial quantitative planar and tomographic imaging to assess the initial risk area of infarction, its change over time and the relation to infarct-related artery patency in patients with a first acute myocardial infarction. Twenty-three of 30 patients were treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) within 4 hours after onset of acute chest pain. Seven patients were treated in the conventional manner and did not receive thrombolytic therapy. The initial area at risk varied greatly both in patients treated with rt-PA and in those who received conventional therapy. Patients with successful thrombolysis and patient infarct arteries had a significantly greater reduction of Tc-99m sestamibi defect size than patients who had persistent coronary occlusion. Serial imaging with Tc-99m sestamibi could find important application in future clinical research evaluating the efficacy of new thrombolytic agents. Direct measurements of the amount of hypoperfused myocardium before and after thrombolysis could provide rapid and unequivocal results using fewer patients and avoiding the use of "mortality" as an end point. This approach has not yet been widely tested in the clinical arena. 
Increase in rubella and congenital rubella syndrome--United States, 1988-1990. In 1988, health departments in the United States reported an all-time low of 225 cases of rubella. However, in 1989, the number of reported cases increased nearly twofold, and in 1990, an additional threefold. As of January 4, 1991, a provisional total of 1093 cases (0.4 cases per 100,000 population) had been reported to the National Notifiable Disease Surveillance System (NNDSS) for 1990--the highest total since 1982 (Figure 1). This report summarizes the increase in rubella and congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) since 1988. 
Fanconi's anaemia and post-cricoid carcinoma. A case of post-cricoid carcinoma, occurring in a patient with Fanconi's anaemia is presented. The case illustrates the rare association of the two diseases. The problems with the management of such a case are discussed. 
Cesarean section by local anesthesia in patients with familial dysautonomia. We describe a 29-year-old patient with familial dysautonomia who underwent cesarean section because of severe intrauterine fetal growth retardation. The surgery was done after induction of local anesthesia to avoid the critical and sometimes fatal complications of general anesthesia known in patients with familial dysautonomia. Surgery was uneventful and almost painless. The postoperative period was without complications. Induction of local anesthesia for cesarean section may constitute a suitable alternative in patients with familial dysautonomia. 
Positive role of Clostridium difficile infection in diarrhea in infants and children. A retrospective review of children with Clostridium difficile infection and diarrhea identified 43 patients. Fifteen (35%) had immunoglobulins below the normal range for age, and typified those with transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy, because all increased their levels over the following 12 months. The age of those with hypogammaglobulinemia was significantly younger (p less than 0.01), averaging 18.8 months, than those with normal immunoglobulins who had a mean age of 4.6 yr. The number with recurrent C. difficile infection was significantly greater (p less than 0.001) in the hypogammaglobulinemic group than in those with normal immunoglobulins (46% vs 18%). Eleven children were identified who had C. difficile toxin in the stool after antibiotic therapy, but who had no diarrhea at the time of study. All had normal immunoglobulins. Control patients (20 without and 40 with diarrhea) had no evidence of C. difficile infection, and all but three had normal immunoglobulins. Three (7%) of those with diarrhea had IgA deficiency, and all had a diagnosis of milk protein allergy. These data suggest that immunoglobulin values be obtained in infants and children who have problematic C. difficile diarrhea in order to identify disorders of immunoglobulin synthesis which may be the underlying cause of repeated upper respiratory disease requiring antibiotic usage. 
Are CT scans for head injury patients always necessary? The study reported here sought to identify a group of adult head injury patients in whom computerized axial tomographic (CT) scans were not necessary. The study was limited to patients 18 years of age and older with a history of minor head injury who remained neurologically stable for 20 minutes after arrival at the trauma center, maintained a Glasgow Coma Scale score of at least 13, and had no clinical evidence of basal skull fracture. These patients had a uniformly good neurologic prognosis. The CT scan did not have any prognostic or therapeutic implications. Of a total of 348 patients studied, 12 had an abnormal CT scan with no neurologic deficits or sequelae, and all of them had an uneventful hospital discharge without readmission. It appears that a routine CT scan for minimal head injury patients is an inefficient use of personnel and equipment which may add to the ever increasing financial burden on trauma centers. 
Tocainide therapy in muscle cramps and spasms due to neuromuscular disease. Significant improvement in symptoms of disabling cramps and muscle spasms was obtained in 9 patients with motor neuron diseases, tetany, and myotonic disorders who were treated with tocainide, a lidocaine analog. No significant side effects were observed except for light-headedness and fatigue in 1 patient, who also showed slight prolongation of intraventricular conduction time. Tocainide is useful in treating disabling muscle spasms and cramps associated with conditions characterized by neuromuscular irritability. This effect is probably based on stabilization of the membrane potential at various levels (motor neurons, peripheral nerve, or muscle fiber membrane). 
The relationship of cocaine to headache in polysubstance abusers. In a questionnaire survey of inpatient polysubstance abusers it was found that cocaine relieved migraine-type headaches much more often in chronic headache sufferers than in those with only occasional headaches (p less than .05). However, cocaine could also bring on headaches after several hours, both in chronic headache sufferers and in those not subject to headaches. The facts that cocaine may relieve headache immediately, and also may precipitate headaches several hours after use, suggests that the well-known vasoconstrictive actions of cocaine may be responsible. Migraineurs seem more susceptible to some of these effects of cocaine than are people without chronic headaches. 
Comparison of the ramp versus standard exercise protocols. To compare the hemodynamic and gas exchange responses of ramp treadmill and cycle ergometer tests with standard exercise protocols used clinically, 10 patients with chronic heart failure, 10 with coronary artery disease who were asymptomatic during exercise, 11 with coronary artery disease who were limited by angina during exercise and 10 age-matched normal subjects performed maximal exercise using six different exercise protocols. Gas exchange data were collected continuously during each of the following protocols, performed on separate days in randomized order: Bruce, Balke and an individualized ramp treadmill; 25 W/stage, 50 W/stage and an individualized ramp cycle ergometer test. Maximal oxygen uptake was 16% greater on the treadmill protocols combined (21.4 +/- 8 ml/kg per min) versus the cycle ergometer protocols combined (18.1 +/- 7 ml/kg per min) (p less than 0.01), although no differences were observed in maximal heart rate (131 +/- 24 versus 126 +/- 24 beats/min for the treadmill and cycle ergometer protocols, respectively). No major differences were observed in maximal heart rate or maximal oxygen uptake among the various treadmill protocols or among the various cycle ergometer protocols. The ratio of oxygen uptake to work rate, expressed as a slope, was highest for the ramp tests (slope +/- SEE ml/kg per min = 0.80 +/- 2.5 and 0.78 +/- 1.7 for ramp treadmill and ramp cycle ergometer, respectively). The slopes were poorest for the tests with the largest increments in work (0.62 +/- 4.0 and 0.59 +/- 2.8 for the Bruce treadmill and 50 W/stage cycle ergometer, respectively). 
Complete temporal lobectomy for surgical resuscitation of patients with transtentorial herniation secondary to unilateral hemispheric swelling. Transtentorial herniation is an ominous finding in the patient with head injuries. We report our experience with 10 patients suffering from acute transtentorial herniation secondary to posttraumatic unilateral hemispheric swelling who were treated aggressively with temporal lobectomy. Eight patients were men and 2 were women. Their ages ranged from 22 to 61 years, with a mean of 37 years. Their preoperative Glasgow Coma Scale scores ranged from 3 to 6, with a mean of 4. All patients had both computed tomographic and clinical evidence of unilateral hemispheric shift and acute herniation without a significant subdural or epidural hematoma. Seven patients had unilateral nonreactive pupils and 3 had bilateral nonreactive pupils. All were taken to the operating room within 2 hours of clinical signs of herniation. Complete unilateral temporal lobectomies including the mesial structures, amygdala, and uncus were performed. In this series, the mortality rate was 30%, including a single patient who was neurologically stable but died from nonneurological injuries. Of the 7 survivors, 4 were functionally independent and 3 required minimal assistance with the activities of daily living. Aggressive, early decompression via complete temporal lobectomy may thus significantly improve the outcome in patients with transtentorial herniation accompanying posttraumatic hemispheric swelling and midline shift. 
Localization of urokinase-type plasminogen activator in stromal cells in adenocarcinomas of the colon in humans. Human colon adenocarcinomas and adjacent normal colon tissues were stained immunohistochemically with three different monoclonal antibodies and one preparation of polyclonal antibodies against each of the two plasminogen activators, uPA (urokinase type) and tPA (tissue type). The staining patterns seen with the respective sets of antibodies were identical. In all of 10 cases, staining for uPA in the normal colon tissue was confined to scattered fibroblastlike cells in the lamina propria. Other cells, including epithelial and endothelial cells, were uPA negative. All the tumor infiltrates contained many more uPA-positive cells than the normal tissues, but the staining was confined to fibroblastlike cells and endothelial cells in the tumor stroma, while no staining of the malignant epithelial cells was detected. Analysis for uPA by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in four cases showed an average uPA content of 0.15 ng uPA/mg protein in the normal colon tissues and 1.6 ng uPA/mg protein in the tumors. Tissue-type plasminogen activator immunoreactivity was confined to endothelial cells in both the normal colon tissue and in the colon carcinomas. These findings may indicate that colon cancer cells recruit stromal cells to produce uPA involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix during invasive growth. 
Hemodynamically stable upper gastrointestinal bleeding. This article is a prospective evaluation of 38 patients presenting to an emergency department (ED) with hematemesis but who were otherwise hemodynamically stable. Four patients were admitted, only one because of the development of hemodynamic instability. Thirty-three patients were discharged; on follow-up there was no evidence of major morbidity or mortality. Two patients were lost to follow-up, one who left against medical advice and one who lived in a county outside the service area of our hospital. Patients with hematemesis can be safely discharged from the ED after observation for 6 hours if they: (1) lack orthostatic vital sign changes; (2) lack associated significant underlying disease; (3) have a hemoglobin concentration greater than 10 gm/dL; (4) are less than 60 years of age; and (5) are thought to be reliable and compliant. 
Cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific intravenous immunoglobulin for the prevention of primary CMV infection and disease after marrow transplant. Cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific immunoglobulin (IVIG) was evaluated in a randomized controlled trial in CMV-seronegative marrow transplant patients with seropositive marrow donors for the prevention of primary CMV infection during the first 100 days after transplant. Patients received 200 mg/kg CMV IVIG on days 8 and 6 before transplant, the day after transplant, weekly for the first month, and then every 2 weeks to complete 10 doses. Patients were followed with weekly CMV cultures and serologic studies and for clinical and histologic evidence of CMV disease. Sixty patients were evaluable in each group. There was significantly less CMV excretion (P = .04) and viremia (P = .01) in the treatment group. However, the incidence of CMV disease including CMV pneumonia, CMV enteritis, and CMV syndrome (fever, leukopenia, hepatitis) was not statistically different. There was also no difference in median time of onset of CMV infection or disease, median number of hospital days, or survival between the two groups. 
Surgical correction of coarctation in early infancy: does surgical technique influence the result? Between 1979 and 1988, a total of 53 infants less than 1 year of age underwent repair of coarctation. Thirty-seven patients (70%) were younger than 3 months. Median age was 0.9 month. Four different surgical techniques were used: resection with end-to-end anastomosis, patch enlargement, subclavian flap aortoplasty, and subclavian displacement aortoplasty (Meier-Mendonca technique). Hospital mortality was 7.5% and was limited to patients with additional complex intracardiac defects. Neither age nor surgical technique had an influence on the operative risk. Follow-up averaged 15 to 43 months for the four different groups. Restenosis developed in 9 (19%) of 47 patients regularly followed up, 5 (11%) of whom have had reoperation. Age at operation was not a predictor for restenosis, which occurred in 17.4% of patients less than 1 month and 20.8% of those greater than 1 month of age at operation. Patch enlargement and the subclavian displacement technique demonstrated the highest restenosis rates (42% and 43%, respectively). However, patients who underwent patch enlargement had less favorable pathological conditions. It is concluded that results of coarctation repair in early infancy do not depend as much on the operative method itself as on the specific pathological aspect, which largely determines the method of treatment. Some reservation must be made in regard to the subclavian displacement technique. 
Nonlymphoblastic lymphoma in children--histology and stage-related response to therapy: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. From May 1979 to March 1983, 93 eligible patients with nonlymphoblastic lymphoma (NLBL) were treated by members of the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) with Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH), vincristine, prednisone, cyclophosphamide, and mercaptopurine (ACOP+); CNS prophylaxis with intrathecal (IT) methotrexate, hydrocortisone, and cranial irradiation (2,400 rads), and radiation therapy to the primary disease were administered in stages I and II, and to residual disease in stages III and IV. Duration of treatment was 2 years for stages I, II, and III and 3 years for stage IV disease. Of the 93 patients entered onto the study, 47 had diffuse small noncleaved-cell lymphoma (DSNCL), 38 had diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and eight had other histologies. Localized disease (stages I and II) was present in 51 patients, and 42 had advanced (stages III and IV) disease. The study confirmed previously reported importance of stage with a 4-year event-free survival (EFS) of 78% (SE +/- 7%) for patients with localized disease as compared with 44% (SE +/- 9%) in patients with advanced disease (P less than or equal to .001). In localized disease, seven of 11 adverse events occurred in patients who were off therapy and more than 30 months after the initial diagnosis (relapse, three; second malignancy, two; death in remission, two). Large-cell histology proved to be an important prognostic factor in patients with stages III and IV disease with EFS at 4 years of 67% (SE +/- 11%) for DLCL versus 17% (SE +/- 11%) for DSNCL (P less than or equal to .001). We conclude that it is important to distinguish histologically between small noncleaved-cell and large-cell types of NLBL as a basis for further controlled clinical trials. 
National surveillance of dialysis-associated diseases in the United States, 1989. To determine trends in a variety of dialysis-associated diseases and practices, the Centers for Disease Control surveyed 1,867 chronic hemodialysis centers in the United States in 1989 in conjunction with the annual facility survey performed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The response rate to a mailed questionnaire was 92%. These 1,726 centers represented 122,734 patients and 32,486 staff members. The following results were found. 1) During the last 14 years, the incidence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection decreased from 3.0 to 0.1% among patients, and from 2.6 to 0.1% among staff members. Over the same time, the prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positivity declined from 7.8 to 1.4% among patients and from 0.9 to 0.3% among staff members. Hepatitis B vaccine was given by 92% of the centers. By the end of 1989, 19% of susceptible patients and 55% of susceptible staff members had received all three doses of hepatitis B vaccine. From 1982 to 1989, as a result of receiving vaccine, the prevalence of antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs) increased from 12 to 19% among patients and from 18 to 54% among staff. The incidence of non-A, non-B hepatitis in 1989 was reported to be 0.7% among patients and 0.1% among staff members. 2) Twenty-two percent of the centers reported pyrogenic reactions in the absence of septicemia among their patients, and 51% reported septicemia. 3) The reported incidence of dialysis dementia among hemodialysis patients was 0.2%, with a case fatality rate of 23%. 4) In 1989, 68% of centers reported that they reused disposable dialyzers; these centers treated 73% of the dialysis patient population. Among centers that reused disposable dialyzers, the average number of reuses ranged from 1 to 50 (mean, 12) and the maximum number of times a disposable dialyzer was ever reused ranged from 3 to 150 (mean, 28). Chemical germicides used for reprocessing dialyzers included formaldehyde, Renalin (a peracetic acid-hydrogen peroxide-based germicide), and glutaraldehyde-based germicides. Reuse of disposable dialyzers was not associated with any increased risk of acquiring HBV infection among either patients or staff. However, pyrogenic reactions occurring in clusters were reported more frequently in centers that reused conventional dialyzer membranes compared with centers that did not. This increased risk was associated only with centers that used Renalin or glutaraldehyde for reprocessing (not formaldehyde) and occurred with both automated and manual reprocessing systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Acute appendicitis following blunt abdominal trauma. Incidence or coincidence? Inflammation of the appendix is a common cause of acute abdominal pain. The etiology and pathophysiology of appendicitis have been well described. The initiating factor often is obstruction of the appendiceal lumen by inspissated stool, barium, food, parasites, or hyperplastic lymphoid tissue. Two patients have been identified who developed appendicitis temporally related to blunt abdominal trauma, without other clear etiology. Although absolute documentation of trauma as an etiologic factor in these cases is difficult, theoretical mechanisms for the occurrence are discussed. In the setting of right lower quadrant pain following mild to moderate blunt abdominal trauma, acute appendicitis should be considered as a possibility. 
Limited efficacy of leukopoor platelets for prevention of febrile transfusion reactions. Leukopoor red cell components have a reduced incidence of febrile transfusion reactions. An analogous efficacy for leukopoor platelets has not been convincingly established. The authors analyzed the transfusion records of 36 patients (26 women, 10 men) who received leukopoor platelets following febrile reactions to unmodified platelets. These patients received 409 unmodified transfusions (mean/patient 11) with 84 febrile reactions (rate 20.5%). Reaction rates to unmodified, non-HLA-matched single donor platelets (14.0%) and HLA-matched platelets (6.5%) were significantly lower than to pooled concentrates (27.2%) (P less than .01 and P less than .001, respectively). Of 623 leukopoor transfusions (mean/patient 17), 84 resulted in reactions (13.5%). Although leukodepletion significantly lowered the overall reaction rate as compared with unmodified products (P less than .02), a majority of patients (28 of 36) continued to have reactions. When individual reaction rates to unmodified and leukopoor transfusions were compared, only two patients showed a significant decrease in their reaction rate with leukopoor platelets. It appears that most susceptible patients continue to react to leukopoor platelets, particularly when pooled concentrates are used, and many patients show no reduction in reaction rate. 
Ryanodine contracture: a potentially specific in vitro diagnostic test for malignant hyperthermia. In vitro contracture tests used currently for malignant hyperthermia (MH) do not possess absolute specificity. This is potentially a great problem in the study of the genetic approach which offers the best prospect for the development of a non-invasive diagnostic test for the condition. The calcium release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum has been proposed as the site of the MH defect. Ryanodine, which binds avidly to this channel, was shown to differentiate between muscle of MH susceptible and normal patients in terms of in vitro contracture response. This ryanodine contracture response is proposed as a potentially specific in vitro diagnostic test for MH. 
Pharmacologically based dosing of etoposide: a means of safely increasing dose intensity. We have previously demonstrated that individualized dosing of etoposide (VP16) by 72-hour infusion is feasible and that the extent of leukopenia is a function of plasma concentration, pretreatment WBC (WBCp), albumin (ALB), performance status (PS), and bone marrow function (based on transfusion requirements). In the current study, 45 patients were randomized between a fixed dose of VP16 (125 mg/m2/d) versus individualized dosing to a target WBC nadir (WBCN) of 1,700/microL. The total dose was increased by an average of 22% in the latter patients (459 +/- 130 mg/m2 v 375 mg/m2, P = .002). This was associated with a decrease in both the mean WBCN (1,510 +/- 950 v 2,500 +/- 1,420/microL, P = .013) and in the variability of the WBCN (P = .039). The VP16 clearance (mL/min) was not correlated with body surface area. Partial responses were observed in one patient each with hepatoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We conclude that pharmacologically based dosing may be a means of increasing dose intensity without increasing the incidence of life-threatening toxicity due to a decrease in variability around a target WBC. 
Efficacy and safety of intravenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone: Lutrepulse for injection. A multicenter trial was undertaken to assess the ability of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone to restore physiologic ovulatory function in women with diminished or absent pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion. In 109 women with primary and secondary hypothalamic amenorrhea, pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Lutrepulse [gonadorelin acetate] for Injection) was extremely effective, resulting in ovulation in 91% and 96% of patients, respectively. Overall complications of intravenous line placement ranged from 0% to 11% (mean = 7%). A 12% incidence of multiple pregnancy was noted, and a single case of ovarian hyperstimulation was reported in a woman who also received clomiphene citrate. Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone treatment appears to be of at least comparable efficacy to human menopausal gonadotropins, with the added benefit of reduced overall risks for the patient with hypothalamic amenorrhea. 
The danger of an ultra-early computed tomographic scan in a patient with an evolving acute epidural hematoma. A case of an acute traumatic epidural hematoma that developed after an ultra-early computed tomographic scan of the head is discussed. Serial neurological examinations in patients with head injuries are recommended. 
Epidemiology of encephalitis in children: a 20-year survey. Four hundred five children from the Helsinki area who were 1 month to 16 years old were treated for acute encephalitis at the Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki, from January 1968 through December 1987. Encephalitis occurred most commonly in children 1 to 1.9 years of age, among whom the incidence was 16.7 per 100,000 child-years. The incidence remained quite high until the age of 10 years, and then gradually declined to 1.0 per 100,000 child-years at the age of 15 years. Since 1983, when mumps, measles, and rubella vaccination eradicated the encephalitides associated with these microbes, the major associated agents have been varicella-zoster, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and respiratory and enteroviruses. In infants younger than 1 year of age, the major agents were enteroviruses, herpes simplex virus, and the group of "others," whereas in older children, respiratory viruses and Mycoplasma pneumoniae, as well as varicella-zoster virus, dominated. In children aged 1 to 11 months, the causal agent could not be identified in one-half of all cases, whereas in children who were at least 10 years old, the etiology remained unknown in only one-fourth of cases. Male dominance was most evident in the 4- to 9-year age group. The difference in etiology between males and females was significant (p = 0.02); mumps and varicella were more common in boys, and adenovirus and Mycoplasma pneumoniae were more common in girls. The overall male-to-female ratio was 1.4:1. Characteristic seasonal variation occurred in encephalitides associated with mumps, measles, and entero- and respiratory viruses. 
Dietary calcium and blood pressure: modifying factors in specific populations. Epidemiologic findings continue to add to the body of evidence supporting a relationship between calcium intake and blood pressure. These findings also indicate that there is a threshold of the potential protective effect of adequate calcium intake, below which the risk of hypertension increases at a greater rate. The set point of this threshold, estimated at 700-800 mg/d, may be modified by a variety of factors including dietary patterns and components, lifestyle, and genetics. This may explain, at least in part, the heterogeneous response observed in dietary-intervention studies. In animal models of hypertension it was shown that greater amounts of calcium must be given to cause a blood pressure change comparable with that in normal animals, suggesting that in high-risk human populations in which calcium metabolism may be disordered, calcium intake may have to be increased to amounts greater than 700-800 mg/d to demonstrate the blood-pressure-lowering effect. Calcium intake at or above the currently recommended daily allowance of 800 mg could be of potential benefit to certain racial groups, individuals ingesting excessive alcohol, and pregnant women, all of whom generally consume low amounts of calcium and who are at higher risk of developing hypertension. 
Second occurrence of spinal epidural metastases. We reviewed records of 79 men with spinal epidural metastases diagnosed from July 1984 to July 1989, imaged by myelography or MRI, and treated with radiation therapy. Thirteen men (16%) had second epidural metastases. The mean time between lesions that developed within two vertebral bodies of a prior lesion was 2.8 months, compared with 15.2 months for lesions that were three or more vertebral bodies from a prior lesion. Some secondary spinal metastases occurring soon after the initial metastasis may represent regrowth of tumor at the border of the radiation port, suggesting that larger radiation ports be constructed for patients with lengthy expected survival times. 
Plasma chromogranin A + B, neuropeptide Y and catecholamines in pheochromocytoma patients. Plasma levels of chromogranin A + B, neuropeptide Y and catecholamines were analysed before, during and after surgery in seven patients with pheochromocytoma. The aim of the study was to determine the diagnostic sensitivity of these plasma amines and peptides, and to investigate their peroperative fluctuations. Chromogranin A + B in plasma was increased preoperatively in all patients, showed no significant increase during surgery, and normalized postoperatively. Neuropeptide Y, which alone can induce hypertension, was present in high levels in plasma from three patients preoperatively, increased further in four patients during surgery, and was postoperatively low in all patients. Fractionated plasma catecholamines were increased in five patients before surgery, increased in all patients during tumour dissection, and normalized postoperatively. It may be concluded that plasma chromogranin A + B exhibited as high a sensitivity for pheochromocytoma as fractionated urinary catecholamines in the patients studied. 
An analysis of cerebral blood flow in acute closed-head injury using technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT and computed tomography. Technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine (HMPAO) SPECT and x-ray CT were compared in 15 patients with acute closed-head injury. There were 44 focal lesions in all. Fifteen (34%) lesions were seen on both x-ray and SPECT. Seventeen (39%) lesions were seen only on SPECT. Twelve (27%) of the lesions were seen on x-ray tomography only. Of the lesions seen on x-ray tomography but not on SPECT, two were subarachnoid hemorrhage, two were thin subdural hematomas, and eight were contusions. This study shows that SPECT can detect focal disturbances of cerebral blood flow that are not seen on x-ray tomography. It also suggests that there are two types of contusions: those with a decreased cerebral blood flow (i.e., detectable on SPECT) and those with a cerebral blood flow equal to that of the surrounding brain. 
Parasympathetic withdrawal is an integral component of autonomic imbalance in congestive heart failure: demonstration in human subjects and verification in a paced canine model of ventricular failure. Although enhanced sympathetic tone is a well recognized component of the autonomic profile characteristic of congestive heart failure, the contribution of parasympathetic withdrawal to this autonomic imbalance is less well described. The technique of spectral analysis of heart rate variability provides a dynamic map of sympathetic and parasympathetic tone and was thus used to define the nature of sympathetic-parasympathetic interactions in humans with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and in a paced canine model of congestive heart failure. Humans with cardiomyopathy were found to have an augmentation of the sympathetically mediated low frequency area of the power density spectrum. Parasympathetic withdrawal was demonstrated by significant reductions in the parasympathetically mediated high frequency area (p less than 0.05) and the ratio of high to low frequency areas (p less than 0.01). Administration of atropine to normal subjects resulted in a significant reduction in the high frequency area (p less than 0.05) and the high/low frequency area ratio, both of which decreased within the range noted in patients with congestive heart failure. Administration of isoproterenol in normal subjects led to an augmentation of the low frequency area but to only a small decrease in the high/low frequency area ratio. Induction of congestive heart failure in a paced canine model resulted in alterations in the autonomic profile that resembled those seen in humans with ventricular failure. The prominent high frequency region of the spectrum at baseline, indicating a predominance of parasympathetic tone, was absent after the evolution of congestive heart failure, and there was a marked augmentation of the low frequency region of the spectrum. 
Analysis of morbidity and mortality rates in right hepatectomy with the preoperative APACHE II score. Morbidity and mortality rates in 70 patients who underwent major liver resection for liver tumors (primary and metastatic) were determined and correlated with the preoperative APACHE II score. Patients were divided into three groups according to their preoperative APACHE II score: low (0 to 3), mid (4 to 7), and high (8 and above). A higher score was closely correlated with increased postoperative morbidity and operative mortality rates. The group with low scores had a postoperative morbidity rate of 34% and a mortality rate of 0%, the group with mid scores had a postoperative morbidity rate of 54% and a mortality rate of 3%, and the group with high scores had a postoperative morbidity rate of 80% and a mortality rate of 20%. Age did not correlate with morbidity. It was therefore postulated that morbidity and mortality rates were related to the combination of points for abnormal physiologic variables and points for chronic health, or APACHE II score minus points for age. As the combination of these points increases the postoperative morbidity and operative mortality rates increase significantly (from 24% in the 0-point group to 69% in the greater than or equal to 3-point group). Also the two deaths occurred in the group with 3 or more points. The preoperative APACHE II score may be used by clinicians to evaluate before surgery the risk of postoperative morbidity and death in elective major liver surgery. 
Dietary fish oil blocks the microcirculatory manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury in striated muscle in hamsters. Epidemiologic observations and experimental studies have demonstrated a protective effect of dietary fish oil on the clinical manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we used the dorsal skinfold chamber model for intravital fluorescence microscopy of the microcirculation in striated muscle of awake hamsters. In control hamsters (n = 7), reperfusion after a 4-hr pressure-induced ischemia to the muscle tissue elicited the adhesion of fluorescently stained leukocytes to the endothelium of postcapillary venules, capillary obstruction, and the break-down of endothelial integrity. These microvascular manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury were significantly attenuated in animals (n = 7) when fed with a fish oil-enriched diet for 4 weeks prior to the experiments. In leukocyte total lipids, the fish oil diet resulted in a substantial displacement of arachidonic acid, the precursor of the potent adhesion-promoting leukotriene (LT) B4, by fish oil-derived eicosapentaenoic acid, the precursor of biologically less potent LTB5, emphasizing the mediator role of LTB4 in ischemia-reperfusion injury. These results suggest that the preservation of microvascular perfusion by dietary fish oil contributes to its protective effects on the clinical manifestations of ischemia-reperfusion injury. 
Comparison of effects of thrombolytic therapy on left ventricular function in patients over with those under 60 years of age. This study examined the effect of age on left ventricular (LV) function, assessed by contrast ventriculography 3 weeks after a first acute myocardial infarction in 312 patients who received thrombolytic therapy within 4 hours of the onset of infarction and in 83 patients who received placebo. Streptokinase was given to 188 patients and recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) to 124. Patients were divided into 2 age groups: less than 60 years (n = 244) and greater than or equal to 60 years (n = 151). Thrombolytic therapy improved ejection fraction in both age groups: from 54 +/- 13 to 59 +/- 11% (p = 0.021) in the younger group and from 50 +/- 14 to 57 +/- 13% (p = 0.004) in the older group. Ejection fraction was identical in streptokinase- and rt-PA-treated patients. Multifactor analysis of variance revealed that younger age and thrombolytic therapy were independently associated with improved ejection fraction. Thrombolytic therapy also reduced end-systolic volume (p = 0.001) by 14 ml in the elderly and 9 ml in the younger group. Minor bleeding complications were more frequent in the elderly and 3 serious hemorrhages occurred in patients greater than or equal to 60 years. These findings reveal that thrombolysis improves LV function in all age groups studied. Because increasing age is independently associated with a lower ejection fraction after acute myocardial infarction, thrombolytic therapy may confer greater benefits in older patients. 
Dose-related effects of isoflurane associated with low plasma concentrations of verapamil on global and regional function in normal and compromised canine myocardium. Global and regional myocardial functions were studied in seven open-chest dogs with constant low plasma concentrations of verapamil as increasing concentrations of isoflurane (0.75, 1, 1.5 MAC) were administered in the presence of normal myocardial perfusion and after application of critical constriction of the left anterior descending coronary artery. In the presence of verapamil, increases in isoflurane concentrations caused dose-dependent myocardial depression both before and after critical coronary constriction. The systemic and coronary vasodilatation associated with high concentrations of isoflurane did not occur in the presence of verapamil. The association of verapamil with isoflurane caused regional myocardial dysfunction that worsened at high isoflurane concentrations. This regional dysfunction could not be antagonized in two dogs. The effects of isoflurane on regional function were not modified by application of a critical coronary constriction. 
Intermittent long-term adrenocorticosteroid treatment of myasthenia gravis. It is widely accepted that a long-term, alternate-day administration of adrenal corticosteroids after thymectomy is one of the most effective treatments of myasthenia gravis. However, some patients with myasthenia gravis show a tendency to develop steroid dependency, and require extremely prolonged administration of fairly high doses of steroids. Various types of adverse reactions to steroids are likely to occur in such cases. To avoid this, intermittent, single-dose administration of steroids was performed on a trial basis in the present study. Prednisolone, in doses of 50-100 mg, was given once every 3-7 days in three steroid-dependent myasthenic patients, in one case for up to 6 years. The effects of the intermittent treatment were as good as, and adverse effects less frequently found than in single-dose, alternate-day administration. 
Peritoneal adhesion formation after lysis: inhibition by polyethylene glycol 4000. Peritoneal adhesions cause much long-term postoperative morbidity. This study evaluates the efficacy of polyethylene glycol (PEG) 4000 in reducing adhesion reformation after lysis. Adhesions were induced, by abrasion, in 111 Sprague-Dawley rats at a first laparotomy. At a second operation, 10 days later, these adhesions were graded and lysed, after which the animals received one of the following solutions intraperitoneally: 5 per cent PEG 4000 (n = 21), 25 per cent PEG 4000 (n = 23), 32 per cent dextran 70 (n = 22) or isotonic saline (n = 25), or were left as an untreated control group (n = 20). When the reformed adhesions were graded after a further 10 days 5 per cent PEG 4000 was found to be the only solution that inhibited adhesion reformation. The adhesions that reformed in the other four test groups were significantly worse than when they were first graded (P less than or equal to 0.033 for all groups). Therefore 5 per cent PEG 4000 may be useful in clinical practice for the reduction of adhesion formation after lysis. 
Parathyroid hormone-related protein of malignancy: immunohistochemical and biochemical studies in normocalcaemic and hypercalcaemic patients with cancer. Immunohistochemical staining for parathyroid hormone-related protein was performed in 27 tumours from 19 normocalcaemic and eight hypercalcaemic patients with cancer. All the tumours from hypercalcaemic patients stained positively for the protein, as did 17 tumours from normocalcaemic patients. Only hypercalcaemic patients had biochemical evidence of increased bone resorption and abnormalities of renal tubular reabsorption of calcium and phosphate, consistent with the presence of parathyroid hormone-related protein. While tumour mass was higher in hypercalcaemic patients, only one of the initially normocalcaemic patients with positively staining tumours subsequently went on to develop hypercalcaemia and more advanced disease. These data confirm the importance of parathyroid hormone-related protein as a mediator of humoral hypercalcaemia in patients with solid tumours and suggest that low tumour mass may be one reason why serum calcium values are not increased in all patients with tumours containing parathyroid hormone-related protein. None the less normocalcaemia, despite tumour progression in patients whose tumours stained positively for parathyroid hormone-related protein, suggests that other factors may also be important, such as differences in the rate of secretion of the protein by different tumours, or the production of different forms of parathyroid hormone-related protein with varying biological effects. 
Association of sebaceous gland tumors and internal malignancy: the Muir-Torre syndrome. The Muir-Torre syndrome (MTS) is an autosomal dominant genodermatosis characterized by: (1) at least a single sebaceous gland tumor (either an adenoma, an epithelioma, or a carcinoma) and (2) a minimum of one internal malignancy. To date, 120 patients with MTS have been reported. The most commonly associated neoplasms were colorectal (51%) and genitourinary (25%). Unlike colorectal neoplasms in the general population, the majority (58%) of these tumors in MTS patients occurred proximal to or at the splenic flexure. Nearly half of the MTS patients had more than one primary malignancy. Cutaneous lesions occurred before or concurrent with the diagnosis of the initial cancer in 41% of these patients. The median age for the appearance of the skin lesions was 53 years (range, 23 to 89 years); the median age for the detection of the initial visceral neoplasm was 50 years (range, 23 to 81 years). The cancers appear to have an indolent course in many of the MTS patients; the median survival has not been reached and the median follow-up is 10+ years. Patients with an MTS-associated cutaneous lesion should have a complete evaluation for gastrointestinal or genitourinary cancers. Although the penetrance of this disease is variable, its autosomal dominant inheritance suggests that relatives should be examined for sebaceous gland tumors and internal malignancy. 
Lymphoproliferative disorders of the thyroid gland: radiological appearances. Images of lymphoproliferative disorders of the thyroid by ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), 99Tcm and 67Ga scintigraphy were analysed in eight patients (two men and six women, aged 42-83 years). Seven patients were diagnosed as having primary lymphoma and one plasmacytoma. Ultrasound revealed a solid mass with homogeneous and very low echogenicity clearly distinguishable from residual thyroid tissue in five patients, diffuse hypoechoic goitre in one and multiple irregular hypoechoic nodules in both lobes in the patient with plasmacytoma (Case 8). Computed tomography demonstrated a focal low-density area in six cases of lymphoma and decreased density throughout the gland in the other two patients. 99Tcm scintigraphy showed hemilobar enlargement with decreased and uneven trapping, cold area or complete lobar defect in six patients with lymphoma and no trapping in the case of plasmacytoma. 67Ga scintigraphy demonstrated high accumulation in lymphoma and faint accumulation in the case of plasmacytoma. Radiological manifestations with a focal lesion were considered typical and diagnostic of primary thyroid lymphoma, while in one case with diffuse infiltration through the whole gland, the differential diagnosis from Hashimoto's thyroiditis could not be made. In the final case, cells infiltrated diffusely to form islands with patchy distribution among well preserved follicles, correlating with the multiple hypoechoic areas observed by US. 
Diagnosis of mitral valve aneurysm by transoesophageal echocardiography. In a patient with mitral valve aneurysm precordial echocardiography suggested a mistaken diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Transoesophageal echocardiographic examination established the correct diagnosis, which was subsequently confirmed at operation. Transoesophageal echocardiography gives better resolution of lesions associated with the mitral valve than precordial examination and may improve the diagnostic accuracy. 
Inhibition of entry of HIV-1 in neural cell lines by antibodies against galactosyl ceramide. Although the CD4 molecule is the principal cellular receptor for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), several CD4-negative cell lines are susceptible to infection with one or more HIV strains. These findings indicate that there are alternate modes of viral entry, perhaps involving one or more receptor molecules. Antibodies against galactosyl ceramide (galactocerebroside, or GalC) inhibited viral internalization and infection in two CD4-negative cell lines derived from the nervous system: U373-MG and SK-N-MC. Furthermore, recombinant HIV surface glycoprotein gp120 bound to GalC but not to other glycolipids. These results suggest a role for GalC or a highly related molecule in HIV entry into neural cells. 
Listeria monocytogenes infections in patients with AIDS: report of five cases and review. Five patients with AIDS and Listeria monocytogenes infection (three cases of bacteremia and two of meningitis) are reviewed. Four patients had prior or concurrent gastrointestinal illness. Two patients received corticosteroids. A 7- to 21-day course of ampicillin was administered with or without a 7- to 14-day course of gentamicin. This regimen was effective, with no evidence of relapse 7-8 months after therapy was discontinued. The relative infrequency of infection with L. monocytogenes in AIDS patients is unexpected. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) appears to be essential in the inhibition of Listeria in vivo. Elevated levels of TNF in AIDS patients may be protective against listeriosis and thus help explain the low prevalence of listerial infection in this population. Nonetheless, although L. monocytogenes is an uncommon cause of illness in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, it cannot be dismissed as a cause of undefined meningitis or sepsis. 
Molecular and phenotypic analysis of patients with deletions within the deletion-rich region of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene. Eighty unrelated individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) or Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) were found to have deletions in the major deletion-rich region of the DMD locus. This region includes the last five exons detected by cDNA5b-7, all exons detected by cDNA8, and the first two exons detected by cDNA9. These 80 individuals account for approximately 75% of 109 deletions of the gene, detected among 181 patients analyzed with the entire dystrophin cDNA. Endpoints for many of these deletions were further characterized using two genomic probes, p20 (DXS269; Wapenaar et al.) and GMGX11 (DXS239; present paper). Clinical findings are presented for all 80 patients allowing a correlation of phenotypic severity with the genotype. Thirty-eight independent patients were old enough to be classified as DMD, BMD, or intermediate phenotype and had deletions of exons with sequenced intron/exon boundaries. Of these, eight BMD patients and one intermediate patient had gene deletions predicted to leave the reading frame intact, while 21 DMD patients, 7 intermediate patients, and 1 BMD patient had gene deletions predicted to disrupt the reading frame. Thus, with two exceptions, frameshift deletions of the gene resulted in more severe phenotype than did in-frame deletions. This is in agreement with recent findings by Baumbach et al. and Koenig et al. but is in contrast to findings, by Malhotra et al., at the 5' end of the gene. 
Age-specific differences in the relationship between oral contraceptive use and breast cancer. Nearly all studies have suggested that the use of oral contraceptives (OC) is not associated with the aggregate risk of breast cancer diagnosed in women aged 20-54. Because of age-specific differences in the breast cancer-parity relationship and because of age-specific differences in other breast cancer risk factors, the Centers for Disease Control reexamined data from the Cancer and Steroid Hormone Study to assess whether OC use has different effects on the risk of breast cancer at different ages of diagnosis. This was a population-based case-control study conducted in eight geographic areas in the United States during 1980-1982. In these data, the relationship between the risk of breast cancer and OC use appeared to vary by age at diagnosis. Among women aged 20-34 years at diagnosis or interview, those who had ever used OC had a slightly increased risk of breast cancer (odds ratio 1.4, 95% confidence interval 1.0-2.1) when compared with women of the same ages who had never used OC. Among these women, there were no trends of increasing or decreasing risk with any measure of OC use. Among women aged 35-44 years, there was no association between OC use and breast cancer. Among women aged 45-54 years, those who used OC had a slightly decreased risk of breast cancer (odds ratio 0.9, 95% confidence interval 0.8-1.0). Among these women, the risk estimates decreased significantly with increasing time since first and last use. Although the slightly increased risk estimates for the youngest women are compatible with findings by other investigators, the decreased risk estimates for the oldest women have not been described in as many studies. Available data provide no reasons for changes in prescribing practices or in the use of OC as related to breast cancer risk. 
Delayed postanoxic encephalopathy after strangulation. Serial neuroradiological and neurochemical studies. A 13-year-old boy was the victim of attempted strangulation. His condition had returned to normal by the sixth day after the assault; however, from the seventh day, choreoathetosis, dystonia, and marked pseudobulbar paralysis developed in the boy. The computed tomographic scans and T2-weighted magnetic resonance images that were obtained at this time revealed low-density and high-signal intensities in the region of the bilateral putamen and caudate nucleus. These symptoms and the changes in his computed tomographic scans and magnetic resonance images subsided gradually during a 2-month period. Sequential analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid for gamma-aminobutyric acid and dopamine concentrations during his illness revealed reciprocal changes with normal recovery. Because of the delayed onset of neurological changes and the cerebrospinal fluid showing reversible symptoms, the delayed encephalopathy after strangulation had been related to the biochemical alterations that followed anoxia in the vulnerable basal ganglia. 
Isolated angiitis of the central nervous system: involvement of penetrating vessels at the base of the brain. Isolated angiitis of the central nervous system (IAC) was diagnosed in a 40-year-old Caucasian male by histological examination of a leptomeningeal biopsy specimen, and the exclusion of systemic inflammatory or infective disease. Therapy with prednisone 30 mg/day and cyclophosphamide 100 mg/day resulted in clinical and radiological improvement, which have been maintained for an 8-month follow-up period. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed lesions implicating involvement of specific penetrating vessels at the base of the brain, an unusual complication of IAC, and allowed an accurate MRI-clinical correlation. 
Current status of coronary artery operation in septuagenarians. Previous reports of elderly patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting have not addressed the current era of aggressive percutaneous angioplasty and frequent urgent or emergent operation. To investigate this important subgroup of patients, we analyzed our recent coronary artery bypass grafting experience with patients 70 years of age or older. From January 1984 to January 1989, 121 consecutive patients in this age range underwent surgical revascularization at our institution. Overall in-hospital operative mortality (OM) was 7.4% (9/121), with 77.8% (7/9) of deaths due to cardiac causes. Serious postoperative morbidity occurred in 71.1% (86/121). Surgical priority was significantly correlated with operative mortality: for elective cases, the OM was 2.9% (2/68), but it was 8.6% (3/35) for urgent cases (p less than 0.05) and 22.2% (4/18) for emergency cases (p less than 0.05). Univariate analysis isolated the need for inotropic support, intraaortic balloon pump, reoperation, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and emergency status as significant risk factors for OM (p less than 0.05). Multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis identified the need for inotropic support, intravenous nitroglycerin, reoperative coronary artery bypass grafting, and hypertension as independently significant risk factors. A logistic risk equation developed from this population accurately modeled OM at the extremes of operative risk. Three (3.1%) of the 97 patients predicted to have less than 5% OM died, whereas all patients predicted by the model to have greater than 90% OM died. These results indicate that in spite of relatively high morbidity and mortality rates, elderly patients have a very acceptable operative risk in the current era of high-risk coronary artery bypass grafting. This is particularly true if elective revascularization is possible. 
Minimal role of xanthine oxidase and oxygen free radicals in rat renal tubular reoxygenation injury. The role of xanthine oxidase and oxygen free radicals in postischemic reperfusion injury in the rat kidney remains controversial. Proximal tubules, the focal segment affected by ischemic renal injury, were isolated in bulk, assayed for xanthine oxidase activity, and subjected to 60 min of anoxia or hypoxia and 60 min of reoxygenation to evaluate the participation of xanthine oxidase and oxygen radicals in proximal tubule reoxygenation injury. The total xanthine oxidase in isolated rat proximal tubules was 1.1 mU/mg of protein, approximately 30% to 40% of the activity found in rat intestine and liver. Lactate dehydrogenase release, an indicator of irreversible cell damage, increased substantially during anoxia (39.8 +/- 2.3 versus 9.8 +/- 1.8% in controls) with an additional 8 to 12% release during reoxygenation. Addition of 0.2 mM allopurinol, a potent xanthine oxidase inhibitor, and dimethylthiourea, a hydroxyl radical scavenger, failed to protect against the reoxygenation lactate dehydrogenase release. Analysis of xanthine oxidase substrate levels after anoxia and flux rates during reoxygenation indicates that hypoxanthine and xanthine concentrations are in a 15-fold excess over the enzyme Km and 0.3 mU/mg of protein of xanthine oxidase activity exists during reoxygenation. Hypoxic tubule suspensions had a minimal lactate dehydrogenase release during hypoxia and failed to demonstrate accelerated injury upon reoxygenation. In conclusion, although xanthine oxidase is present and active during reoxygenation in isolated rat proximal tubules, oxygen radicals did not mediate reoxygenation injury. 
The ethics of nontreatment of patients with cancers of the head and neck. There are three levels at which nontreatment decisions for patients with cancers of the head and neck might be made: not doing further diagnostic procedures when the data gained would not make a significant difference to treatment decisions; not continuing aggressive therapy when its benefits are outweighed by the ensuing burdens and harms; and, at the policy level, not providing costly aggressive therapy at all because of the number of patients with unmet, more basic needs. These three levels of nontreatment decisions are discussed in light of ethical theory, briefly introduced. Arguments are made in favor of nontreatment decisions at the two clinical levels mentioned above, but against a policy decision to ration treatment for patients with cancers of the head and neck. 
Outcome in children who nearly drown: a British Isles study OBJECTIVE--To determine the outcome in nearly drowned children in the British Isles and identify factors that might predict a poor prognosis. DESIGN--Study of drowned and of nearly drowned children aged less than or equal to 14. Information on nearly drowned children admitted to hospital obtained from consultant paediatricians returning monthly notification cards through the British Paediatric Surveillance Unit. Information on drowned children obtained from Office of Population Censuses and Surveys and other national epidemiological offices. SETTING--British Isles, 1988 and 1989. SUBJECTS--330 children who had confirmed submersion incidents. 142 died before admission to hospital and 188 children were admitted after nearly drowning. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Death, full recovery, or degree of handicap after near drowning and signs on admission to hospital. RESULTS--All of the children who were conscious on admission fully recovered. Of the 64 children unconscious on admission, 31 had normally reactive pupils and all but three (all of whom had severe preexisting neurological disease) recovered fully. Of the 33 children with fixed dilated pupils on admission, 10 fully recovered, 13 died, and 10 had severe neurological deficit. Spontaneous respiratory effect on admission was associated with normal survival. Pupils that remained dilated six hours after admission and fits continuing 24 hours after admission predicted a poor outcome. CONCLUSION--Children can survive normally after near drowning in the British Isles, particularly if they have been hypothermic. Resuscitation should not be abandoned in nearly drowned children until they have been rewarmed. 
Hemangiopericytoma of the lacrimal sac. Hemangiopericytomas of the orbit are rare tumors with low malignancy potential. To the authors' knowledge, only three previous cases of these tumors occurring in the lacrimal sac have been reported. The authors report a fourth case. Follow-up was obtained on the first reported case, and the patient in that case had a recurrence after 15 years. These tumors should be totally excised and followed for long periods of time. 
Anaerobic pathogenesis: collagenase production by Peptostreptococcus magnus and its relationship to site of infection. Fifty isolates of Peptostreptococcus magnus from intraabdominal sepsis, nonpuerperal breast abscess, and diabetic foot infections were examined for collagenase activity using bovine type I collagen. Collagenase production was detected in a higher percentage of strains from nonpuerperal breast and diabetic foot specimens (P less than .001). This enzyme may be responsible for P. magnus playing a more central role in the pathogenesis of nonpuerperal breast abscess and diabetic foot disease than in intraabdominal sepsis. 
Sternohyoid muscle biopsy. A diagnostic technique in respiratory failure of neuromuscular origin. Patients with neuromuscular disease may develop respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. We describe a sternohyoid muscle biopsy technique as a diagnostic aid in such patients undergoing tracheostomy for prolonged ventilatory support. The biopsy procedure is quick and without added discomfort or morbidity for the patient. Our preliminary observations in three patients suggest that the sternohyoid muscle biopsy may be a useful diagnostic tool in this selected group of patients. 
Quantitative coronary arteriographic methods in the interventional catheterization laboratory: an update and perspective. Recent research advances in the area of quantitative coronary arteriography are described with respect to their potential role in assessing the effects of interventional therapy and monitoring the restenosis process. Specific areas emphasized are the importance of quantitative arteriography and absolute measures of arterial dimension in monitoring restenosis, the development of a computerized method for measuring lesion roughness, the potential role of measuring stenosis flow reserve based on component analysis principles, limitations of direct measures of myocardial flow reserve using a digital angiographic method and cautionary notes about clinical applications of videodensitometry. The current use of radiography and quantitative measures in limiting arterial injury are briefly reviewed. Finally, a perspective is put forth on the need to develop complementary roles for endovascular echocardiography and angioscopy with existing radiographic imaging technology. 
Morphometric studies in rectal biopsy specimens from patients with ulcerative colitis: effect of oral 5 amino salicylic acid and rectal prednisolone treatment. Morphometric measurements were performed on rectal biopsy specimens from 10 normal control subjects and 33 patients with a relapse of distal ulcerative colitis before and after treatment for four weeks in a double blind controlled trial with oral eudragit S coated 5 amino salicylic acid (n = 12) or rectal prednisolone enemas (n = 15). Measurements were assessed using a computer aided measuring system and a counting technique. When untreated patients were compared with the control group there were significant decreases in the area and height of the surface epithelium, in the area of crypt epithelium, and in the ratios of goblet cells to epithelial cells and of surface epithelium to lamina propria. The vascular and lamina propria areas and the number of intraepithelial polymorphs were increased. Treatment with 5 amino salicylic acid and corticosteroids resulted in similar morphological improvements: there was an increase in the area and height of the surface epithelium and the ratios of surface epithelium to lamina propria and of surface to crypt cell height. The ratio of goblet cells to epithelial cells also increased after treatment, while the numbers of polymorphs in the surface and crypt epithelium and lumen decreased. In conclusion, computerised morphometry is valuable for the assessment of the treatment of patients with ulcerative colitis and that in the doses used both treatments were of similar efficacy. 
Risk of cataract and history of severe diarrheal disease in southern India. A case-control study was carried out in the state of Tamil Nadu, southern India, to examine the association between the risk of visually disabling cataract and a lifetime history of severe diarrhea (including cholera). A series of 421 subjects, aged 35 to 65 years, meeting case (n = 181) and control (n = 240) eligibility criteria were enrolled from 19 rural cataract-screening camps. Ninety case-control pairs were postmatched for (reported) age (+/- 2 years), sex, and area of residence. A history of diarrhea was obtained by using an algorithm developed by other investigators in India who have reported a strong association between cataract and diarrhea. An odds ratio of 0.8 (95% confidence limits: 0.0, 3.2) was obtained from matched pairs analysis, and an odds ratio of 1.3 (95% confidence limit: 0.6, 2.7) was obtained among all subjects (n = 392) from a logistic analysis that adjusted for age, sex, occupation, area of residence, and caste. Findings of this study do not support the hypothesis of an increased risk of visually disabling cataract in persons with a positive history of severe diarrhea. 
Coronary-subclavian steal corrected with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. We describe a case of coronary-subclavian steal syndrome treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. A 58-year-old female who had her first coronary bypass operation 6 years previously and a second operation 3 years previously involving the left internal mammary artery and right gastroepiploic artery, developed unusual angina on effort characterized by left precordial pain, pain in the left shoulder and arm, tinnitus and dizziness. Angiography revealed retrograde flow to the left subclavian artery via the left vertebral artery and left internal mammary artery. Severe stenosis of the left subclavian artery was demonstrated at its ostium. Restoration of antegrade flow to the vertebral artery and left internal mammary artery by transluminal angioplasty resulted in complete resolution of these symptoms. 
Clinical significance of soluble CD30 antigen in the sera of patients with untreated Hodgkin's disease. The soluble form of the CD30 antigen (sCD30), an 88-kd glycoprotein that is released by Hodgkin's-derived cell lines in vitro, can be detected in patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma, adult (HTLV-1+) T-cell leukemia, rare cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and acute infectious mononucleosis (anti-EBV-IgM+). In a prospective study of 90 consecutive untreated patients with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease who were treated according to the protocols of the German Hodgkin Study group, 22% had detectable levels of sCD30 in their serum. sCD30 was only detected in patients with B symptoms (20 of 44 or 45%), and maximum sCD30 levels (88 U/mL) were found in stage IVB. Of 87 patients evaluable for response, sCD30+ patients had significantly lower rates of complete remission (9 of 20 or 45% v 60 of 67 or 90%; P less than .001) and higher rates of progressive disease (9 of 20 or 45% v 6 of 67 or 9%; P less than .001) than CD30+ patients. Similarly, freedom from treatment failure curves were significantly worse for CD30+ patients (P = .0003). sCD30 disappeared after successful treatment, but increased in patients with progressive disease. It was never detected in patients in complete remission or in healthy controls. We conclude that sCD30 is a valuable marker for disease activity and has prognostic significance in Hodgkin's disease. 
Basic fibroblast growth factor and somatomedin C in human medulloepithelioma. Two published cases of medulloepithelioma, a rare malignant pediatric brain tumor composed of a mixture of primitive neuroepithelium and its differentiated neuronal and glial descendants, were examined by immunohistochemical staining for the presence of growth factors. From a panel of antibodies, those identifying basic fibroblast growth factor and insulin-like growth factor I, formerly known as somatomedin C, were strongly immunoreactive within the neuroepithelial cell population of the tumors. Immunoblots of purified recombinant basic fibroblast growth factor and insulin-like growth factor I showed antibody specificity without cross-reactivity. In controls, immunostaining of tissue sections was abolished by preabsorption of primary antibodies with the appropriate growth factor polypeptide antigen. Preabsorption with inappropriate growth factor did not reduce the intensity or alter the distribution of staining. The congruent histologic patterns of immunoreactivities suggest that more than one type of growth factor may be produced by the neuroepithelial component of medulloepithelioma. These growth factors may stimulate proliferation and differentiation of tumor cells by autocrine molecular mechanisms. 
Menstrual symptoms in women with pelvic endometriosis. OBJECTIVE--To investigate menstrual symptoms in relation to pelvic pathology. DESIGN--A prospective questionnaire-based study. SETTING--Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Scotland. SUBJECTS--1250 questionnaires were sent out prior to planned admission and 1200 women (96%) brought the completed questionnaires. They comprised 598 women undergoing laparoscopic sterilization, 312 having laparoscopy because of infertility, 156 having laparoscopy because of chronic pelvic pain and 134 women undergoing abdominal hysterectomy for dysfunctional uterine bleeding. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--The occurrence of dysmenorrhoea, menorrhagia, menstrual regularity, premenstrual spotting, deep dyspareunia and pelvic pain in women with either endometriosis and post infective pelvic adhesions or a normal pelvis. RESULTS--Menorrhagia, menstrual irregularity and premenstrual spotting occurred with equal frequency in all groups. Deep dyspareunia, pain after intercourse and recurrent pain unrelated to menstruation or coitus was more common in women with endometriosis and those with post infective pelvic adhesions than in those with a normal pelvis. Dysmenorrhoea appears to be more prevalent among women having endometriosis. CONCLUSIONS--Menstrual symptoms, while raising a high index of suspicion for endometriosis, are not entirely reliable as indicators of disease. Dysmenorrhoea is the most common reported symptom in endometriosis sufferers. Diagnostic laparoscopy should be considered before institution of treatment in women complaining of pelvic pain and menstrual symptoms. 
Conjunctival necrosis after administration of topical fortified aminoglycosides. We treated 11 episodes of bulbar conjunctival necrosis that occurred in ten patients after therapy for suppurative keratitis with topical fortified aminoglycosides. Chemosis and mucous discharge preceded the development of an area of conjunctival pallor, which stained with fluorescein and was 5 to 10 mm from the corneoscleral limbus. Typical lesions developed in the inferior bulbar conjunctiva after a mean of 4.8 days and 112 mg of gentamicin sulfate (109 drops). The fortified aminoglycoside was the only agent common to all cases. The conjunctival defects healed completely between five and 13 days after treatment was modified to reduce or eliminate aminoglycoside exposure. 
Prediction of death and myocardial infarction by radionuclide angiocardiography in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. The prognostic value of radionuclide angiocardiography was examined in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Nine hundred and eight patients who underwent rest and exercise radionuclide angiocardiography without subsequent cardiac catheterization were followed for a median of 4.6 years. Fifty-two cardiovascular deaths and 28 nonfatal myocardial infarctions occurred during the follow-up period. Thirty-nine radionuclide angiocardiographic and clinical variables were analyzed in association with the end points of cardiovascular death, total cardiac events and death from all causes using the Cox proportional hazards model and Kaplan-Meier survival estimates. Univariable analysis identified the exercise ejection fraction as the best predictor of cardiovascular death (chi-square = 82), total cardiac events (chi-square = 84) and death from all causes (chi-square = 66). A small subset of patients (n = 45) with an exercise ejection fraction less than 0.35 were at high risk for future cardiac events, whereas most patients (n = 776) had an exercise ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and a low probability of a subsequent event. Three variables--the exercise ejection fraction, the exercise change in heart rate, and gender--contained independent prognostic information determined by multivariable analysis. The exercise ejection fraction was the strongest independent predictor (p less than 0.0001) for every end point. The measurement of ventricular function during exercise provides important independent prognostic information in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Radionuclide angiocardiography successfully identifies patients requiring invasive assessment, and the low probability of cardiac events in patients with good exercise ventricular function obviates the need for interventional therapy. 
Efficacy of feedback training in long-standing facial nerve paresis. An efficacious treatment has not been available to patients with aberrant regeneration of the facial nerve as a result of Bell's palsy or after acoustic neuroma excision. This prospective controlled trial examines the efficacy of electromyographic feedback versus mirror feedback as treatment strategies for patients suffering from long-standing (18 months minimum) facial nerve paresis. Twenty-five patients were randomly assigned to electromyography with mirror feedback or mirror feedback alone. Seven rural patients who did not undergo treatment served as controls. At 0, 6, and 12 months, facial motor function was objectively quantified by linear measurement of facial movement, visual assessment of voluntary movement, and electrical measurement of facial nerve response to maximal stimulation. Statistically significant improvements were noted in both electromyography and mirror-feedback groups with respect to symmetry of voluntary movement (P less than .03) and linear measurement of facial expression (P less than .01). The positive results of this controlled trial demonstrate that feedback training in combination with a structured home rehabilitation program is a clinically efficacious treatment for patients with facial nerve paresis. 
Safety and cost effectiveness of combined coronary angiography and angioplasty. If coronary angioplasty can be safely performed at the time of the initial diagnostic catheterization, it may result in shorter hospitalization stays and lower overall costs. Combined coronary angiography and angioplasty was performed electively on 733 patients between January 1, 1984, and September 1, 1988. These patients were divided into three major subgroups based upon their indications for angioplasty: 444 (61%) procedures were performed for restenosis; 190 (26%) procedures were performed in patients for unstable angina; and 99 (13%) procedures were performed in patients without unstable angina or previous angioplasty. A subset of 219 patients from this study who underwent elective combined coronary angiography and angioplasty during 1986 were compared with a matched population of 191 patients from the angiography and angioplasty as separate procedures). The success and complication rates were similar for both of these groups. Patients who underwent the combined procedure were hospitalized for a mean of 4.6 days with average total charges of $11,128, compared with 8.0 days and $13,160 for patients undergoing separate procedures (p less than 0.001). Significant savings were also realized with respect to total contrast dose, fluoroscopic time, and total procedural time. Thus in informed patients with suitable coronary anatomy, the strategy of combined angiography and angioplasty may present an opportunity for decreasing hospitalization stay, reducing total charges for revascularization, and reducing radiation exposure without compromising the safety or effectiveness of the procedure. 
Fibrous dysplasia vs adamantinoma of the tibia: differentiation based on discriminant analysis of clinical and plain film findings. Differentiation between benign fibrous dysplasia and malignant adamantinoma of the tibia is challenging because of the impact the diagnosis has on the choice of treatment (none or extensive surgery). The histologic and pathologic similarities of the lesions and the controversial relationship between fibrous dysplasia, osteofibrous dysplasia, and adamantinoma complicate the matter. We found a large overlap of histologic features in lesions considered either fibrous dysplasia or osteofibrous dysplasia on the basis of the radiologic findings. The purpose of this study was to determine the value of the plain radiograph of the lower leg in combination with clinical findings to differentiate the benign from the malignant condition. The clinical symptoms, radiographs, and histologic slides of 46 patients with fibrous dysplasia and 22 with adamantinoma in the tibia were reviewed retrospectively. In only one of 12 patients with radiologic or histologic characteristics of osteofibrous dysplasia were both radiologic and histologic criteria for the diagnosis present. A linear discriminant analysis was performed on six clinical (age, spontaneous pain, pain after trauma, swelling only, pain and swelling, and bowing deformity) and 25 radiologic signs. Fibrous dysplasia and its variant osteofibrous dysplasia could be identified correctly in 87% (40 of 46 patients) and adamantinoma in 95% (21 of 22 patients) by using the patient's age and four radiologic signs. When results from the discriminant analysis of a randomized subgroup of patients (32) were used on the other subgroup (36 patients), fibrous dysplasia was correctly identified in 84% (21 of 25) and adamantinoma in 82% (nine of 11). Fibrous dysplasia is more prevalent than adamantinoma in a young patient, when radiographs show a ground-glass appearance and anterior bowing and when there is no multilayered periosteal reaction and moth-eaten destruction. When radiologic signs and the patient's age are combined, fibrous dysplasia and adamantinoma can be discriminated in a high percentage of patients. 
Comparison of mastectomy and lumpectomy for medial carcinoma of the breast. The recurrence and five year disease-free survival rates of 86 patients with carcinoma of the breast located in the medial quadrants who had either lumpectomy and radiotherapy or mastectomy were compared. Patients who had lumpectomy and mastectomy were comparable with respect to variables reflecting extent of the disease. One of 54 patients who had lumpectomy had a local recurrence and five had a recurrence regionally or at distant sites. In the group of 32 patients who had a mastectomy, one patient had a local recurrence and an additional four patients had a recurrence at other sites. The five year study disease-free survival rate was 83 per cent for the lumpectomy group and 78 per cent for the mastectomy group. These data suggest that, for medial quadrant lesions, there may be a disease-free survival advantage associated with lumpectomy and radiotherapy over mastectomy. Further study of this treatment modality for this subset of patients seems indicated. 
Cytostatic extravasation. A serious complication of long-term venous access. Totally implantable ports have gained popularity as venous access in the treatment of cancer. A case is reported with an uncommon but very serious complication, i.e., cytostatic extravasation secondary to a broken implanted catheter. Guidelines for implantation and remedies are recommended. 
Prevalence of chronic migraine headaches--United States, 1980-1989. Migraine headaches, which are characterized by painful, disabling, and recurring symptoms, have no known cause, treatment, or cure. Quality population-based data are needed to improve epidemiologic understanding of chronic migraine headaches. This report uses data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) to describe the prevalence of recent trends in the occurrence of chronic migraine headaches in the United States from 1980 through 1989. 
Diagnosis and laparoscopic grading of acute salpingitis. Pelvic inflammatory disease continues to be a major cause of morbidity in women of reproductive age. Findings of bilateral adnexal tenderness and signs of a lower genital tract infection (mucopus, or leukorrhea, or both) should prompt clinicians to consider the diagnosis of salpingitis in this group of women. Additional signs of infection, such as elevated temperature, palpable adnexal complex, leukocytosis, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or c-reactive protein, and positive tests for either Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Chlamydia trachomatis will improve the overall specificity of the clinical diagnosis. Endometrial biopsy offers an acceptable approach to documenting objectively inflammation of the upper genital tract. Diagnostic laparoscopy should be considered in all patients but may be especially helpful for those patients in whom a diagnosis is unclear. A laparoscopic grading system based primarily on tubal mobility and inflammation can be useful in predicting duration of in-hospital therapy and future tubal factor infertility. 
Economic analyses in hypertension: applications for healthcare providers. Hypertension affects millions of Americans. With healthcare dollars becoming more closely scrutinized, economic studies are playing an important role in helping decision makers choose who should receive treatment and which treatments and methods of administration are most cost-effective. This article provides an overview of the different methods used in economic evaluation and demonstrates the utility of each method using studies from the hypertension literature. 
Transient erythroblastopenia of childhood with CD10, TdT, and cytoplasmic mu lymphocyte positivity in bone marrow. Over three years, three children presented with anaemia, reticulocytopenia, and marrow erythroblastopenia. A pronounced lymphocytosis was also evident in two of the marrow aspirates, with increased numbers of cells bearing the immunophenotype TdT+, CD10+ HLA DR+, and cytoplasmic mu +, and reported to be compatible with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). The clinical course of the illness was fully compatible with transient erythroblastopenia of childhood (TEC), and all three children remained well one to four years after initial presentation. It is concluded that increased numbers of lymphoid cells with a common or pre-B ALL phenotype may be found in bone marrow aspirates of children with TEC, and should not be misdiagnosed as acute leukaemia. 
Zinc in the management of tinnitus. Placebo-controlled trial. To assess any possible beneficial effect from zinc on tinnitus we performed a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind investigation. Forty-eight patients with tinnitus were randomized to either placebo or the administration of zinc sulfate as sustained-release tablets of 22 mg Zn++ (Zinklet). The tablets were administered three times daily for 8 weeks. Every week the patients stated the severity of tinnitus on a number scale from 0 to 10. The levels of zinc and albumin in serum were determined both before and after treatment. Of 48 patients with tinnitus, hypozincemia was found in only one patient. The zinc level increased significantly in the patients treated with zinc. We could not demonstrate any beneficial effect from zinc on tinnitus. One of the essential reasons for this finding could be that the zinc levels in serum were in the normal range previous to treatment. 
In situ fresh allograft replacement of an infected aortic prosthetic graft: eighteen months' follow-up. We report a case in which an allogenic aortic graft was used to treat the last one of a series of infectious graft complications. The original operation was a Dacron aortobifemoral bypass for aortoiliac occlusive disease in an institution other than ours. The patient was referred for the treatment of the infection of the prosthetic implant. We inserted a prosthetic bypass from the left axillary to the left deep femoral artery, as well as a crossover autogenous saphenous vein graft from the prosthesis to the right deep femoral artery; in the same operation the infected intraabdominal prosthesis was removed with closure of the proximal aortic stump. Subsequent stenosis of the vein graft made it necessary to insert a prosthetic bypass between the descending thoracic aorta and the two deep femoral arteries. Infection of the last named prosthesis made it necessary to remove it and replace it with a tailored allogenic arterial allograft between the infrarenal abdominal aorta and both deep femoral arteries. The patient had an uneventful recovery as the infection was controlled and both lower limbs were salvaged. Eighteen months later the allograft was patent without any signs of degeneration. Further clinical experience under appropriate conditions may prove the use of allografts effective in the treatment of selected cases of aortic prosthetic infection. 
Low-energy catheter electrical ablation for sustained ventricular tachycardia. Catheter electrical ablation using a relatively low level of energy--40 to 100 joules--was attempted in 12 consecutive patients with drug-refractory sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). They had 19 monomorphic VTs, and ischemic heart disease was found as the underlying heart disease in one, nonischemic heart disease was found in nine, and no structural heart disease was seen in two patients. Electrical discharge was delivered at the site of the earliest endocardial activation in 17 VTs, and at the slow conduction area in two VTs. Among 19 VTs in 12 patients, 12 VTs (63%) in seven patients (58%) were successfully ablated and became noninducible during electrophysiologic study. There were no major complications, but transient atrioventricular block occurred in one patient and transient friction rub occurred in another. Delivered electrical energy and the time interval between the local electrogram and the surface QRS did not correlate with the clinical outcome of the procedure. However, "excellent" pace-mapped QRS morphology was obtained from the site of earliest activation or from the slow conduction area in 9 of 12 VTs in the successful cases but in only one of seven VTs in the unsuccessful cases. Low-energy catheter electrical ablation seems to be a satisfactory therapeutic procedure compared with the conventional method that uses an energy level of 200 joules or higher. 
Stereotactic management of colloid cysts: factors predicting success. Stereotactic aspiration is a valuable surgical alternative for colloid cysts when used alone or in conjunction with microsurgical resection. Since 1981, the authors have performed computerized tomography (CT)-guided stereotactic aspiration as the initial procedure in 22 patients with colloid cysts; stereotactic aspiration alone was successful in 11 patients (50%). Of the 11 patients in whom aspiration failed, stereotactic endoscopic resection was attempted in three and was successful in one. Seven patients required a craniotomy and microsurgical removal of the cyst performed via a transcortical approach. The preoperative CT appearance in eight cases of a hypodense or isodense cyst correlated favorably with successful aspiration of the cyst in six patients. A hyperdense appearance on the preoperative CT scan in 14 cases was associated with subtotal aspiration in 13 patients; five required craniotomy for removal. Preoperative magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in eight patients provided excellent anatomical definition of the cyst and its relationship to other structures of the third ventricle, but it was not possible to correlate successful aspiration with cyst appearance on MR images with short or long relaxation time sequences. The authors' 9-year experience suggests that preoperative CT studies accurately determine size, predict viscosity, and help to define a group of colloid cyst patients for whom stereotactic cyst aspiration will likely be successful. Unsuccessful stereotactic aspiration was related to two features: the high viscosity of the intracystic colloid material (nine patients), or deviation of the cyst away from the aspiration needle due to small cyst volume (two patients). Because of its simplicity and low risk, stereotactic surgery can be offered to selected patients as the initial procedure of choice. Craniotomy can be reserved for those whose imaging studies predict failure or for those whose cyst cannot be aspirated. 
A therapeutic dilemma: suppressive doses of thyroxine significantly reduce bone mineral measurements in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women with thyroid carcinoma. We measured lumbar spine, femoral neck, and forearm bone mineral (BMD) in 24 women (14 premenopausal and 10 postmenopausal) who had been treated with total thyroidectomy and 131 Iodine ablation therapy for nonanaplastic thyroid carcinoma and 24 case controls. At the time of the study, all patients were free of cancer (negative 131 Iodine whole body scan and serum thyroglobulin levels less than 0.3 micrograms/L) and all were receiving doses of T4 sufficiently high to prevent a rise in a serum thyroid-stimulating hormone concentration after an iv bolus of TRH. Femoral neck BMD were significantly reduced in both the premenopausal women (89 +/- 3.8% of case controls, 95% CI, 81 to 98) and postmenopausal women (77 +/- 3.9% of case controls; 95% CI, 68 to 86) receiving T4. Lumbar spine BMD and forearm BMD were unaffected in the premenopausal women, but significantly reduced in the postmenopausal women receiving T4 (lumbar spine BMD = 84 +/- 6.2% of case controls; 95% CI, 70 to 98 and forearm BMD = 89 +/- 5.6% of case controls; 95% CI, 76 to 101). Serum bone Gla-protein, a marker of bone turnover, was significantly increased in both the premenopausal and the postmenopausal women receiving T4 compared to case controls (P less than 0.001 for the difference between patient groups and controls). Whereas the cumulative dose of T4 was highly correlated with the femoral neck BMD in the premenopausal patients (r = 0.528; P less than 0.05); the presence of hypogonadism was the main determinant of the lumbar spine and forearm BMD. This data confirms that premenopausal and postmenopausal women receiving suppressive doses of T4 for thyroid carcinoma have diminished bone mineral measurements and are at risk for osteoporosis. 
Myocardial oedema and ventricular function after cardioplegia with added mannitol. Myocardial oedema may contribute to the impaired myocardial performance which commonly follows open heart surgery with cardioplegia-induced cardiac arrest. The rate of oedema formation during crystalloid cardioplegia and the relation of this to changes in ventricular compliance and ventricular function following reperfusion were studied using an isolated rabbit heart preparation. Myocardial tissue water content increased during cardioplegic arrest and the water content prior to reperfusion demonstrated an inverse correlation with ventricular function after reperfusion. In further studies the effect of adding mannitol to a standard crystalloid cardioplegic solution was investigated. The preparations were divided into two groups: nine were administered a standard cardioplegic solution (Plegisol*) (control group) and a further eight were administered the same solution mixed with mannitol to adjust the osmotic pressure to 360 mOsmol.L-3 (mannitol group). The mannitol group demonstrated less increase in RV water content and superior LV dP/dtmax following reperfusion. It is concluded that mannitol enhances protection of the myocardium during cardioplegic cardiac arrest. 
Histopathologic comparison between human oral squamous cell carcinomas and their xenografts in nude mice. Tumor portions were obtained from 11 oral squamous cell carcinomas and used to produce tumors in a xenogeneic gnotobiotic nude mouse model system. The tumors that developed were examined histologically. The cellular features and tumor growth patterns were compared between the original oral squamous cell carcinoma (T0) and the tumor that developed in the xenogeneic host (T1). The T1 tumors were more highly differentiated in comparison with the T0 tumors. The T1 tumors exhibited less cellular pleomorphism and a more uniform pattern of stratification. The cells in the T1 tumors exhibited an increased mitotic index but did not contain abnormal mitoses. The T1 tumors usually exhibited nodular growth patterns rather than the infiltrating pattern exhibited by the parenchyma of the T0 tumors. The desmoplastic reaction was markedly reduced in the T1 tumors. The results indicated that the gnotobiotic nude mouse model system either selects for or induces a more differentiated pattern of tumor growth than that found in the original human oral squamous cell carcinomas. 
Acute allergic interstitial pneumonitis induced by hydrochlorothiazide [published erratum appears in Can Med Assoc J 1991 Sep 1;145(5):391] OBJECTIVE: To examine the clinical features of 4 unpublished cases and 26 published cases of acute allergic interstitial pneumonitis induced by hydrochlorothiazide (HCT). DATA SOURCES: The unpublished cases were found in the database of the Drug Adverse Reaction Program, Health Protection Branch, Department of National Health and Welfare, and the database of the Programme conjoint de pharmacovigilance, in Quebec. The published cases were retrieved from MEDLINE and EMBASE. STUDY SELECTION: Reported cases were selected if they were sufficiently documented. All published cases were selected because a differential diagnosis had been made in each one. DATA SYNTHESIS: The onset was acute and dramatic; the average time to onset of symptoms was 44 minutes. Sex was a predominant risk factor, since 27 (90%) of the 30 patients were women. The average age was 56 years; thus, most of the women were postmenopausal. Over two-thirds of the patients had one to three positive prechallenges or rechallenges, 3 of the 52 documented adverse events occurred after a voluntary rechallenge, some were life-threatening and necessitated mechanical ventilation, and 1 was fatal. Treatment was supportive; avoidance of HCT was the only prevention. CONCLUSION: Acute allergic interstitial pneumonitis due to HCT is extremely rare and potentially fatal. Such a reaction can be diagnosed only if the clinician suspects it when presented with a case of unexplained acute pulmonary edema. 
Deglutition syncope with coexistent carotid sinus hypersensitivity. A 63-year-old man had symptomatic deglutition-induced atrioventricular (A-V) block. There was also a coexistent mixed type carotid sinus hypersensitivity presenting as A-V block. No A-V nodal dysfunction was revealed during electrophysiologic studies. The vasodepressor response to carotid massage implies a central vagal hyperresponsiveness, which can also explain the cardioinhibitory responses to swallowing and carotid sinus massage, both possibly unmasked by posterior myocardial infarction. 
Opposing actions of dehydroepiandrosterone and testosterone on insulin sensitivity. In vivo and in vitro studies of hyperandrogenic females. It has been hypothesized that the androgens testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) may have opposing actions on insulin sensitivity. To test this hypothesis, we selected patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCO) and hypertestosteronemia and a group of individuals with adrenal hyperplasia (AH) and elevated DHEA and studied their 1) insulin and glucose responses to a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test, 2) insulin resistance by hypoglycemic responses to a standard dose of intravenous (IV) insulin, and 3) insulin binding and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) responsiveness to insulin in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-activated T lymphocytes. PCO patients exhibited elevated basal and glucose-challenged insulin levels and had blunted hypoglycemic responses to IV insulin. Conversely, AH patients had hypoglycemic responses to IV insulin significantly greater than and basal and glucose-challenged insulin levels lower than the PCO patients and weight-matched control subjects. In vitro, T-lymphocyte insulin binding of the PCO patients was 40-60% below control values; in AH patients, insulin binding and PDH insulin sensitivity were above those of the control subjects. Testosterone levels in all study subjects were negatively correlated to T-lymphocyte insulin binding and positively correlated to basal insulin, insulin area under the curve (AUC), and insulin-glucose indices. DHEA levels were positively correlated to insulin binding and inversely related to basal insulin, insulin AUC, and insulin-glucose indices. In all instances, the parameters of insulin sensitivity were more strongly correlated to individuals' ratios of DHEA to testosterone than to either of these androgens alone. 
Fluid collections developing after pancreatic transplantation: radiologic evaluation and intervention. The usefulness of real-time sonography, duplex sonography, computed tomography (CT), cystography, diagnostic aspiration, and percutaneous drainage in the diagnosis and treatment of peri-pancreatic-transplant fluid collections was retrospectively assessed in 46 recipients of extraperitoneal pancreatic transplants. Forty-four abnormalities were identified in the extraperitoneal space at sonography, including four pancreatic pseudocysts associated with malfunction of the pancreatic duct, seven abscesses, six hematomas, nine urinomas, six early postoperative fluid collections that spontaneously resolved, six cases of pancreatitis, and six cases of vascular occlusion. Sonography (including pulsed Doppler sonography) was the procedure of choice in detecting fluid collections and diagnosing pancreatitis, rejection, vascular thrombosis, and pancreatic duct malfunction. CT was diagnostic in four of six hematomas; cystography was diagnostic in seven of nine urinomas. Sonographically guided percutaneous intervention enabled three patients to avoid surgery and allowed optimal surgical planning for six patients. 
Failure of right-sided coloanal anastomosis for treatment of left-sided ulcerative colitis. Report of a case. A patient with ulcerative colitis limited to the rectum and distal colon underwent a left hemicolectomy, a mucosal proctectomy, and a coloanal sleeve anastomosis using the normal proximal colon. She experienced macroscopic recurrence of her disease within 2 months of the operation and eventually required excision of the remaining colon and an end ileostomy. Our experience and that of others would indicate that a right-sided coloanal operation is unsuitable for the treatment of left-sided ulcerative colitis. 
Reactive occipital epileptiform activity: is it benign? Occipital epileptiform activity that is almost continuous and reactive to eye opening has been associated with a childhood epilepsy syndrome and basilar migraine with seizures. An association of these syndromes with a benign course had been disputed. In this study, a retrospective investigation of reactive occipital epileptiform activity (ROEA) was performed to determine the prognostic value of this distinctive EGG pattern. The EEG and hospital record of patients with ROEA were reviewed with an observation period of 6 months to 8 years. The patients were divided into good and poor outcome groups based on response to treatment. Of 33 patients, 12 (36.4%) had complete seizure control; 21 (63.6%) continued to have poorly controlled seizures. Only 3 (9.1%) patients were able to discontinue antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) without seizure recurrence. Analysis of clinical and EEG variables showed that a history of perinatal difficulties, abnormal neurologic findings, and abnormal EEG background activities occur significantly more frequently in the poor outcome group. This study suggests that ROEA is not uniformly associated with a benign course and that other factors are involved in determining prognosis of the epilepsy. 
Methanol poisoning. A rodent model with structural and functional evidence for retinal involvement. Methanol ingestion can lead to visual impairment, central nervous system dysfunction, or death. The extent of ocular involvement has been difficult to determine because the toxicity is restricted to humans and nonhuman primates due to species differences in methanol metabolism. A rodent model of methanol toxicity recently developed by us was used to evaluate retinal dysfunction in methanol poisoning. Formic acidemia and visual toxic reactions developed in methanol-intoxicated rats. Electroretinographic analysis indicated a significant early deficit in b-wave amplitude followed by a temporally delayed, lesser reduction in a-wave amplitude. Histologic evaluation of the eyes 60 hours after methanol administration revealed generalized retinal edema and vacuolation in the photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium. Ultrastructural examination showed swelling and disruption of the mitochondria in photoreceptor inner segments, optic nerve, and the retinal pigment epithelium. These studies document direct retinal involvement in this nonprimate model of methanol toxicity. 
Otorhinolaryngologic causes of headache. Pain around the face and neck is common. This pain may be referred from a different area. Because patients usually present with pain and discomfort in a specific location such as the ear, nose, face, throat, or neck, this article discusses separately the innervation of each region and the most frequent causes of pain in each of these areas. 
Dopa-responsive dystonia: long-term treatment response and prognosis. We report observations on the treatment of 66 patients with presumed dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD). Forty-seven of these patients had hereditary disease; 19 had disease of sporadic occurrence. Initial diagnostic confusion with "cerebral palsy" or "spastic diplegia" existed in 16 patients. Several patients benefited from anticholinergic medications and a few from carbamazepine. Levodopa was the most effective treatment in all cases. In the majority, there was an excellent response, with continued long-term clinical stability on levodopa therapy for as long as 10 to 22 years. Four men with sporadic disease and 1 woman with a sister affected with adolescent-onset parkinsonism had similar initial treatment response, but developed "wearing-off" and a less satisfactory response to levodopa within the first few years of treatment. This indicates that some patients with clinical syndromes suggestive of DRD may not have an excellent prognosis on long-term levodopa treatment and may represent misclassified cases of childhood-onset parkinsonism. 
Characterization of estrogen receptor in human gastric cancer. Estrogen receptors (ER) were examined in cytosol, nuclear potassium chloride (KCl) extractable fraction, and nuclear KCl unextractable fraction by the dextran-coated charcoal adsorption method in various gastric cancer tissue. The overall ER-positive rate in the cytosol and nuclear fraction was 19.2%. The maximum binding site (Bmax) was 36.0 to 175.0 fmol/mg of protein, and the dissociation constant (Kd) was 0.6 to 1.6 X 10(-9) in cytosol fraction. In the nuclear fraction, Bmax was 7.5 fmol/mg of DNA and Kd was 2.3 X 10(-9). Estrogen receptors were characterized in cytosol protein. In cytosol, the estrogen (E2)-ER complex was sedimented at approximately the 5S and 8S regions by 5% to 20% linear sucrose gradient centrifugation. A steroid specificity study of ER showed the presence of an binder in gastric cancer tissue. In conclusion, these results that gastric cancer tissue has E2 binding sites with the same biochemical characteristics as in breast cancer and endometrial cancer strongly suggest the hormonal dependency of gastric cancer. 
Anorectal varices--their frequency in cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. Anorectal varices in portal hypertension have been little studied: Seventy eight per cent of 72 patients with portal hypertension had anorectal varices shown at flexible sigmoidoscopy. Significantly more patients with noncirrhotic portal hypertension had these varices than patients with cirrhosis (89% v 56%, p less than 0.01). 
Jejunal biopsy in HIV-infected patients. Forty-nine HIV-infected patients were submitted to peroral jejunal biopsy in order to evaluate the presence of microorganisms and the histomorphometric aspects of the enteric mucosa with subsequent correlation of these findings to the appropriate clinical stage of the disease. Thirty-seven patients fulfilled the CDC criteria for AIDS, of whom 23 presented with diarrhea. Of the 12 patients who had not yet been given an AIDS diagnosis. 3 had persistent generalized lymphadenopathy and 9 were asymptomatic carriers. Flat mucosa was observed in two patients (8.7%) with diarrhea and coccidea. Subtotal villous atrophy and severe lamina propria (LP) mononuclear infiltrate (13%) were found only in patients with diarrhea. Moderate to severe histologic changes were more frequently observed in this group, not always related to the presence of microorganisms. Crypt hyperregeneration was a constant finding. Intraepithelial lymphocyte (IEL) count was decreased in patients with diarrhea. Specific infectious agents were unexpectedly rare for the tropical developing country population studied. The organism most commonly associated with diarrhea was Cryptosporidium sp. (21.7%). The etiology of diarrhea in a significant number of patients remains unclear. 
Surgical management of retinal detachment associated with the acute retinal necrosis syndrome. We operated on nine eyes in eight patients with retinal detachment associated with acute retinal necrosis (ARN) syndrome. The patients were treated with scleral buckling, vitreoretinal surgery, or a combination of these treatments. Vitrectomised eyes underwent combinations of lensectomy, membrane dissection, scleral buckling, air-fluid exchange, endolaser photocoagulation, cryotherapy, and retinal tamponade with C3F8 gas or SF6 gas. Macular attachment was achieved in eight (89%) eyes. Vision improved in seven (78%) eyes, of which five (56%) achieved 20/200 or better vision. Three eyes that had received laser treatment posterior to areas of retinitis suffered retinal detachment despite this prophylactic treatment. Poor visual outcome resulted from viral infection of the optic nerve or macular involvement, macular hole formation, macular pucker, or hypotony. 
Differences in the use of procedures between women and men hospitalized for coronary heart disease BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Previous studies at individual hospitals have reported differences in the use of major diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for women and men with coronary heart disease. To assess whether these differences can be generalized, we performed retrospective analyses of coronary angiography and revascularization (coronary-artery bypass surgery or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) in women and men hospitalized for coronary heart disease in 1987, using abstract data on 49,623 discharges in Massachusetts and 33,159 discharges in Maryland. We used multiple logistic regression to estimate the adjusted odds of the use of a procedure, controlling for principal diagnosis, age, secondary diagnosis of congestive heart failure or diabetes mellitus, race, and insurance status. RESULTS. The adjusted odds of undergoing angiography were 28 percent and 15 percent higher for men than for women in Massachusetts and Maryland, respectively (95 percent confidence intervals for the odds ratios, 1.22 to 1.35 and 1.08 to 1.22). The respective adjusted odds of undergoing revascularization were 45 percent and 27 percent higher for men than for women (95 percent confidence intervals, 1.35 to 1.55 and 1.16 to 1.40). Because these differences could be related to differing thresholds for hospital admission, we performed a second analysis limited to patients with diagnosed acute myocardial infarction (11,865 discharges in Massachusetts and 6894 discharges in Maryland), a group in which all patients would be expected to receive hospital care. The male-to-female odds ratios in both states remained similar in magnitude and were statistically significant for angiography and revascularization. CONCLUSIONS. These findings demonstrate that women who are hospitalized for coronary heart disease undergo fewer major diagnostic and therapeutic procedures than men. These differences may represent appropriate levels of care for men and women, but it is also possible that they reflect underuse in women or overuse in men. Further study should assess the cause of these differences and their effect on patients' outcomes. 
Anterolateral transthoracic transvertebral resection of an intramedullary spinal arteriovenous malformation. Case report. The case is reported of a 16-year-old girl with an anterior thoracic spinal cord arteriovenous malformation (AVM) who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage and sudden change in lower-extremity strength. Spinal angiography revealed a Type II (glomus) intramedullary AVM at the T7-8 level fed by multiple branches of the anterior spinal artery. The AVM was successfully resected using an anterolateral transthoracic approach. The details of this approach and its use for surgery of anterior thoracic spine lesions are described. 
Fucosyltransferases: differential plasma and tissue alterations in hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis. To determine whether abnormal metabolism of L-fucose in hepatocellular carcinoma is accompanied by alterations in the activities of fucosyltransferases, the latter were determined in plasma and liver tissue of patients with this disease and in cirrhotic and normal subjects. Activities of alpha-2/alpha-3 and alpha-6-L-fucosyltransferases were all significantly greater in plasma from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma than in plasma from cirrhotic patients or normal subjects (p less than 0.025). The activity of each enzyme was dependent, to a similar extent, on Mn2+, Mg2+ and triton X-10, irrespective of the source, and all displayed pH optimums in the range of 7.5 to 8.0. In contrast, activities of alpha-2/alpha-3 fucosyltransferases were significantly lower (p less than 0.025) in homogenates prepared from tumorous liver tissue than in that prepared from nontumorous tissue from hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhotic patients, whereas for the alpha-6 enzyme the situation was reversed (typically, tumor tissue levels were 5 pmol/hr/mg; in nontumor tissue they were 2 pmol/hr/mg). Activities of galactosyl and mannosyltransferase in tumor tissue were greater in all cases than in nontumor cirrhotic tissue. Plasma fucosyltransferases are specifically elevated in hepatocellular carcinoma but different mechanisms appear to underlie the changes seen for alpha-2/alpha-3 and alpha-6-L-fucosyltransferases. 
Role of bile acids in splanchnic hemodynamic response to chronic portal hypertension. Previous studies from our laboratory suggest that humoral factors, namely glucagon, can account for approximately 30% of the splanchnic vasodilation in rats with prehepatic portal hypertension. A reduced vascular sensitivity to norepinephrine, vasopressin, and angiotensin II may contribute to the splanchnic vasodilation. However, neither glucagon nor an altered vasoconstrictor sensitivity can fully account for the splanchnic vasodilation observed in portal hypertensive subjects. Therefore, the present study was designed to examine the role of bile acids in the splanchnic hyperemia of portal hypertension since (1) serum bile acids are elevated in portal hypertensive subjects and (2) bile acids are potent intestinal vasodilators. Prehepatic portal hypertension was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by surgical constriction of the portal vein. Ten to 14 days after the induction of portal hypertension, the enterohepatic circulation of control and portal hypertensive rats was surgically interrupted. The animals were placed in Bollman restraint cages and allowed to recover. Eighteen to 24 hr later, the rats were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and regional blood flow measured with radiolabeled microspheres. Normal and portal hypertensive animals without bile fistula served as controls. Plasma bile acid levels measured by radioimmunoassay were approximately 3.8 times higher in portal hypertensive animals than in control. Bile duct cannulation effectively depleted both normal and portal hypertensive animals of their circulating bile acid pool and significantly reduced portal venous inflow in portal hypertensive but not in control rats. A role for bile acids as partial mediators of the splanchnic hyperemia of portal hypertension is suggested since bile acid depletion did not completely abolish the gastrointestinal hyperemia. 
Psychiatric aspects of chest pain in the emergency department. We estimate that a third of the patients who present to the ED with chest pain have a current psychiatric disorder and that psychiatric disorders among chest pain patients are associated with a high rate of ED utilization for chest pain evaluations. Physicians in the ED recognize only a small fraction of the psychiatric disorders, so appropriate treatment or referral may be infrequent. The proportion of chest pain patients with CAD who also have a psychiatric disorder may be in the range of 20% to 30%, justifying careful assessment of psychiatric disorders in CAD patients. We conclude that the psychiatric aspects of chest pain are sufficiently prevalent, clinically significant, and a contributor to unnecessarily high utilization of medical services. We call for clinical research to address these questions by outlining three areas of study that will advance our knowledge and care of the patient with chest pain. 
A prospective evaluation of intracoronary ethanol ablation of the atrioventricular conduction system. The clinical efficacy and complications associated with ablation of the atrioventricular (AV) conduction system by the selective infusion of ethanol into the AV node artery were prospectively assessed in 12 consecutive patients with medically refractory atrial arrhythmias. Six of the patients had previously failed to have permanent complete AV block created with direct current or radiofrequency catheter ablation. The AV node artery was cannulated with a 0.016 in. (0.041 cm) guide wire in all 12 patients. It was also possible to advance a 2.7F infusion catheter into the AV node artery in all patients. Transient AV block was induced by selective injections into the AV node artery of iced saline solution (8 patients) and of radiographic contrast agent (ioxaglate) (10 patients). The infusion of 2 ml of ethanol (96%) induced immediate complete AV block in all 10 patients who demonstrated AV block with ioxaglate. The escape rhythm exhibited a narrow QRS complex preceded by a His bundle deflection in nine patients and left bundle branch block in one patient. The immediate mean rate of the escape rhythm was 45.3 +/- 13.4 beats/min. In two patients who demonstrated reflux of contrast agent into the distal right coronary artery with selective injections into the AV node artery, transient ST segment elevation developed in the inferior electrocardiographic leads with the infusion of ethanol. There was no change in the left ventricular ejection fraction from the baseline value (0.53 +/- 0.12) to that measured after ablation (0.55 +/- 0.11) and no patient developed wall motion abnormalities. 
A carbon fiber implant to aid interbody lumbar fusion. Mechanical testing. A carbon-fiber-reinforced polymer implant has been designed to aid interbody lumbar fusion. The cage-like implant has ridges or teeth to resist pullout or retropulsion, struts to support weight bearing, and a hollow center for packing of autologous bone graft. Because carbon is radiolucent, bony healing can be imaged by standard radiographic techniques. The device has been mechanically tested in cadaver spines and compared with posterior lumbar interbody fusion performed with donor bone. The carbon device required a pullout force of 353 N compared with 126 N for donor bone. In compression testing, posterior lumbar interbody fusion performed with the carbon device bore a load of 5,288 N before failure of the vertebral bone. Posterior lumbar interbody fusion performed with donor bone failed at 4,628 N, and unmodified motion segments failed at 6,043 N. The carbon fiber implant separates the mechanical and biologic functions of posterior lumbar interbody fusion. 
The effects of adenotonsillectomy on growth in young children. A history of poor weight gain can often be elicited in young children with chronic upper airway obstruction resulting from adenotonsillar hypertrophy. A series of 41 consecutive children under 3 years of age, who underwent inpatient adenotonsillectomy, were reviewed for changes in weight and height. Thirty-seven patients had adequate long-term follow-up. Of these, many had dramatic improvements in growth after adenotonsillectomy. Indications for surgery in this group were recurrent infection in three patients (7%), unilateral tonsillar mass in one patient (3%), and upper airway obstruction in 37 patients (90%). A clear history of sleep apnea was elicited in 59%. At the time of surgery, 19 of 41 patients (46%) were of the fifth percentile or lower for age-corrected weight. The inpatient hospital stay averaged 3.2 days. The postoperative complication rate was 27%, with postoperative stridor as the most common complication. After surgery, 28 children (75%) showed a change to a higher percentile for weight. Twenty-four (65%) had percentile changes of 15% or more. This change is significant according to results of the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (p less than 0.001). We conclude that a relationship exists between improved growth rate and adenotonsillectomy in our study group. The rapid improvement in growth appears to be most obvious in children with upper airway obstruction resulting from adenotonsillar hypertrophy. Upper airway obstruction (including andenotonsillar hypertrophy) should be suspected as a possible cause in the workup of children with suboptimum growth. 
Emergency laryngectomy. From 1974 to 1990, 31 patients underwent emergency laryngectomy for airway obstruction due to laryngeal carcinoma, in an effort to avoid the complication of stomal recurrence. This group of patients had a greater proportion of multiregional tumours (35 per cent vs 13 per cent) than a comparison group of elective laryngectomies. In other respects the two groups were similar. Early post-operative mortality (6.5 per cent vs 3 per cent), stomal recurrence rates (4.2 per cent vs 4.8 per cent) and survival (53 per cent vs 55 per cent) were not significantly different between the emergency laryngectomy group and the comparison group undergoing elective laryngectomy. 
Evaluating quality, cost-effective health care. Vascular database predicated on hospital discharge abstracts. This population-based study examines all carotid endarterectomies (CE) performed by all surgeons in a single state over a 10-year period. The methodology is designed to determine morbidity rate, mortality rate, cost, and length of stay, as well as to understand the effect of pre-existing chronic disease, physician, and hospital volume on these outcome variables. The data source consisted of hospital discharge abstract data uniformly collected on all admissions (N = 5.9 million) to acute care hospitals in the state. In the decade 1979 to 1988, 11,199 patients underwent CE. Mortality rate from CE was 2.1%, and the postoperative stroke rate was 3.7% over this period. High physician volume decreased the mortality rate (p less than 0.05) and stroke rate (p less than 0.01) by 50% and significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced hospital cost and length of stay independent of patient complexity. Examination of cost data, adjusted for inflation, showed a decrease in mean cost for CE over the decade. Thus physicians are providing better care for less hospital dollars. Both patient and payor outcome is improved by concentrating CE patients in the hands of high-volume surgeons. Although the data suggests this trend is already evolving, the pace of this evolution can be expected to increase as payors recognize that regionalization of this procedure lowers costs. 
Necrotizing tracheitis caused by Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum: unique case and review. The occasional pathogenicity of nondiphtheria corynebacteria in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised individuals is now well established. Previously described sites of infection include heart valves, wounds, urinary tract, and lungs. This report of necrotizing tracheitis caused by Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum illustrates the widening spectrum of infections caused by these organisms. A 54-year-old man developed respiratory distress and symptoms of upper airway obstruction unresponsive to inhaled bronchodilators, systemic corticosteroids, or intravenous erythromycin. A spirometry flow-volume loop demonstrated fixed upper airway obstruction. Fiberoptic bronchoscopic examination revealed a circumferential inflammatory process partially occluding the tracheal lumen. Gram staining revealed gram-positive rods typical of corynebacteria, and cultures of tracheal tissue yielded C. pseudodiphtheriticum resistant to erythromycin and clindamycin. There was no clinical or laboratory evidence for exotoxin or cell-associated toxins. Treatment with intravenous penicillin resulted in resolution of the inflammatory process and eradication of the organisms, as assessed by subsequent cultures. 
Role of bile acids in splanchnic hemodynamic response to chronic portal hypertension. Previous studies from our laboratory suggest that humoral factors, namely glucagon, can account for approximately 30% of the splanchnic vasodilation in rats with prehepatic portal hypertension. A reduced vascular sensitivity to norepinephrine, vasopressin, and angiotensin II may contribute to the splanchnic vasodilation. However, neither glucagon nor an altered vasoconstrictor sensitivity can fully account for the splanchnic vasodilation observed in portal hypertensive subjects. Therefore, the present study was designed to examine the role of bile acids in the splanchnic hyperemia of portal hypertension since (1) serum bile acids are elevated in portal hypertensive subjects and (2) bile acids are potent intestinal vasodilators. Prehepatic portal hypertension was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by surgical constriction of the portal vein. Ten to 14 days after the induction of portal hypertension, the enterohepatic circulation of control and portal hypertensive rats was surgically interrupted. The animals were placed in Bollman restraint cages and allowed to recover. Eighteen to 24 hr later, the rats were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and regional blood flow measured with radiolabeled microspheres. Normal and portal hypertensive animals without bile fistula served as controls. Plasma bile acid levels measured by radioimmunoassay were approximately 3.8 times higher in portal hypertensive animals than in control. Bile duct cannulation effectively depleted both normal and portal hypertensive animals of their circulating bile acid pool and significantly reduced portal venous inflow in portal hypertensive but not in control rats. A role for bile acids as partial mediators of the splanchnic hyperemia of portal hypertension is suggested since bile acid depletion did not completely abolish the gastrointestinal hyperemia. 
Same-day angioplasty and diagnostic catheterization: safe and effective but riskier in unstable angina. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed at the time of the diagnostic catheterization in 188 patients (215 lesions) at a University Hospital in order to assess the efficacy of this approach and the potential role it should play in the evaluation and treatment of patients. Patients either presented for diagnostic catheterization for evaluation of stable coronary disease (79 patients) or for unstable or new onset anginal symptoms (109 patients). Lesions were graded as to whether they were simple or complex; and post angioplasty films were reviewed for success rate, and degree of revascularization. Patients who were referred for stable anginal symptoms had a slightly higher success rate (91%) compared to those who were referred for new onset or more unstable symptomatology (85%, p = ns). Additionally, lesions morphology was judged to be more complex in unstable patients, as 67% had complex lesions with the presence of thrombus or ulcerated plaque in 56% of these stenoses. Angioplasty success was high for simple lesions in all patients, but was most unfavorable for complex stenoses in patients who presented with unstable symptoms (81% success rate). In patients who presented with new onset or unstable symptoms multivessel disease was present in 69% and angioplasty was more often geared at dilating a culprit stenosis leaving only 49% of these patients with complete revascularization. On the other hand, in 76% of those patients who presented with stable angina complete revascularization was a common outcome. Length of hospital stay was considerably shorter at 2.9 +/- 0.8 days in those patients who presented with stable symptoms. 
Neurohumoral activation in congestive heart failure. This article reviews the evidence that congestive heart failure is accompanied by an increased plasma norepinephrine concentration and that this is due not only to a reduced tissue clearance of the substance but also to a marked increase in sympathetic nerve activity. It also reports data that indicate that the sympathetic activation is associated with an activation of the renin-angiotensin system and an increased plasma level of vasopressin. At which degree of congestive heart failure these phenomena become manifest is not clear, but some studies suggest that the sympathetic and renin-angiotensin systems may be normal in asymptomatic congestive heart failure but already somewhat activated when this condition reaches New York Heart Association class II. There is also evidence that this activation, though initially compensatory, is eventually responsible for a number of adverse cardiovascular effects that account for the negative relationship between this event and survival. Finally, the article discusses the inability of the increased plasma level of atrial natriuretic peptide that characterizes congestive heart failure to offset the adverse effects of the neurohumoral activation and the variable influence of drug treatment on this phenomenon. This is not impossible to achieve, however, because heart transplantation appears to rapidly normalize a major factor in the increased sympathetic activity observed before surgical intervention, that is, impairment of the arterial baroreflex. 
Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study design and baseline patient characteristics. ETDRS report number 7. The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), a multicenter collaborative clinical trial supported by the National Eye Institute, was designed to assess whether argon laser photocoagulation or aspirin treatment can reduce the risk of visual loss or slow the progression of diabetic retinopathy in patients with mild-to-severe nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy. The 3711 patients enrolled in the ETDRS were assigned randomly to either aspirin (650 mg per day) or placebo. One eye of each patient was assigned randomly to early argon laser photocoagulation and the other to deferral of photocoagulation. Both eyes were to be examined at least every 4 months and photocoagulation was to be initiated in eyes assigned to deferral as soon as high-risk proliferative retinopathy was detected. Examination of a large number of baseline ocular and patient characteristics indicated that there were no important differences between randomized treatment groups at baseline. 
Clinical efficacy of sucralfate in the treatment of gastric ulcer. We performed a randomized, single-blind study in Japan to investigate the efficacy and safety of two dosage regimens of sucralfate granules, 2 g, twice daily (b.i.d. group, n = 30) and 1 g, 4 times daily (q.i.d. group, n = 27), on ulcer healing in 57 patients with endoscopically proven gastric ulcer. Endoscopy was performed after 4 weeks and, if complete healing was not achieved, again after an additional 4 weeks. Of 57 patients, 11 were excluded from the statistical analysis because of protocol violation (six in b.i.d. group, five in q.i.d. group). Of 46 patients eligible for the analysis of healing rates, four patients in the b.i.d. group (all at 8 weeks) and five patients in the q.i.d. group (two at 4 weeks and three at 8 weeks) were withdrawn due to patients' inconvenience. As the possibility that the withdrawals were due to the treatment failures could not be denied, we used the Kaplan-Meier method and generalized Wilcoxon test/logrank test for the calculation and evaluation of healing rates in this study, respectively. Healing rates at 4 and 8 weeks were 50% and 94% in the b.i.d. group and 35% and 68% in the q.i.d. group. There was no significant difference in healing rates between the groups. No serious adverse effect was observed in either group. These results suggest that the 2 g b.i.d. dose of sucralfate in granule form is at least as effective as the conventional dose of 1 g q.i.d. in the treatment of active gastric ulcers and could lead to better patient compliance. 
Vasospasm in a coronary artery aneurysm. Coronary artery aneurysms are not believed to have enough intact smooth muscle to generate significant vasoconstriction. A case is presented illustrating vasospasm of a large fusiform aneurysm of a right coronary artery during angioplasty. Pathophysiology of aneurysms is discussed. 
A case of intracerebral air embolism secondary to the insertion of a Hickman line. Complications following the insertion of intravenous catheters are relatively uncommon. We report a potentially serious, hitherto unrecognized complication of Hickman line insertion, and discuss the condition. 
Difficult pediatric diagnoses. Bruising and bleeding [published erratum appears in Pediatr Clin North Am 1991 Oct;38(5):viii] An approach to the evaluation of a child who presents to the pediatrician with bruising is outlined. Important clues in the history and physical examination that suggest disorders of platelet number and function or coagulation abnormalities are presented. A scheme for using screening tests of coagulation and platelet function is followed by a brief summary of currently available therapies appropriate for bleeding episodes in children. 
Clinical and financial audit of diagnostic protocols for lesions of the cerebellopontine angle OBJECTIVE--To assess the diagnostic efficiency and costs of protocols used for investigating patients with suspected lesions of the cerebellopontine angle. DESIGN--Prospective evaluation of tests of auditory brain stem responses and acoustic reflex thresholds, electronystagmography, and calorics. Positive test results were confirmed or refuted by high resolution computed tomography with intravenous enhancement. SETTING--Single general otolaryngology clinic in a teaching hospital. PATIENTS--270 consecutive patients with sensorineural hearing loss requiring investigation to exclude a lesion of the cerebellopontine angle. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Estimated costs of various diagnostic protocols and performance in detecting tumours of the cerebellopontine angle. RESULTS--Protocols including tests of auditory brain stem responses and acoustic reflex thresholds as sifting tests before computed tomography were clinically acceptable and presented considerable savings over the use of computed tomography in all patients (74,000 pounds or 84,000 pounds v 122,000 pounds). The use of electronystagmography and calorics could not be justified on clinical or financial grounds. CONCLUSIONS--Audiological tests of auditory brain stem responses and acoustic reflex thresholds followed by computed tomography constitute the most cost effective protocol for determining suspected lesions of the cerebellopontine angle. IMPLICATIONS--The cost effectiveness of diagnostic protocols should be evaluated throughout the health service. 
Acute pulmonary hypertensive crisis in a patient with primary pulmonary hypertension treated by both epoprostenol (prostacyclin) and nitroprusside. A 19-year-old girl was diagnosed as having primary pulmonary hypertension that was confirmed by right heart catheterization. Acute right heart failure was associated with syncope. Stabilization, while not achieved with intravenous epoprostenol (Prostacyclin) alone, was achieved with intravenous prostacyclin and nitroprusside. 
The treatment of ankle valgus by surface epiphysiodesis. Progressive ankle valgus in childhood requiring surgical correction is usually because of paralytic disease or conditions that produce a short distal fibula such as multiple exostoses or both. Surface epiphysiodesis of the distal medial tibial physis was used to correct valgus deformity in ten ankles in seven patients. This procedure has been found to be a simple and effective method of treatment. Measurement of the degree of valgus and calculation of the remaining growth of the distal tibial physis are recommended to determine whether this procedure will be effective. It is most often indicated in the presence of moderate valgus in children aged 11 to 14 years. 
Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty in obstructive apnea. Value of preoperative localization of site of upper airway narrowing during sleep. We hypothesized that those obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) patients with upper airway collapse during sleep within the transpalatal airway would have a more favorable response to uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPP) than those patients with obstruction within the hypopharyngeal airway. We tested this hypothesis in seven OSA patients with transpalatal and seven with hypopharyngeal obstruction undergoing UPP. Preoperatively the apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) was different between palatal and hypopharyngeal obstructors, 37.8 +/- 6.0 (+/- SEM) and 63.9 +/- 6.3, respectively (p less than 0.05), but the apnea-associated arterial oxygen desaturation and the lowest sleep saturation level were not different between the two groups. Postoperatively the AHI was 17.6 +/- 7.2 in the palatal obstructors and 40.3 +/- 15.6 in the hypopharyngeal obstructors (both p less than 0.05 from preoperative AHI). The palatal obstructors had a significant decrease in the percentage of sleep time spent apneic and the hypopharyngeal obstructors had a significant decrease in the hypopnea, but not apnea, time following surgery. The palatal obstructors had a significantly higher postoperative arterial oxygen saturation than the hypopharyngeal obstructors. Two hypopharyngeal obstructors worsened postoperatively. In addition we found that regardless of the site of the obstruction preoperatively, all obstructions occurred at the level of the palate postoperatively. We conclude that patients with preoperative transpalatal obstruction had diminution in obstructive apneas and those with hypopharyngeal obstruction had diminution in hypopneas but not apneas. Oxygenation was better postoperatively in the palatal obstructors, and none worsened postoperatively. These results suggest that identification of the site of upper airway obstruction in OSA may be beneficial. 
A rare complication of mitral valve replacement. Intraoperative fracture of the right fibrous trigone following a superior approach to the left atrium. Case report. A rare complication of mitral valve replacement is reported. Following a superior approach, through the roof of the left atrium the mitral valve was replaced with a Bjork-Shiley prosthesis in a 52-year-old female, who had undergone previous closed commissurotomy. Fracture of the right fibrous trigone occurred at surgery, following the completion of mitral valve replacement. The lesion was successfully repaired on cardiopulmonary bypass under cardioplegic arrest, placing sutures, after an oblique aortotomy, from below the noncoronary aortic cusp. The postoperative course was uneventful, without occurrence of a-v block. We believe that a superior approach to the left atrium may be a valid alternative for mitral valve surgery in some selected cases. 
Primary embryonal-cell carcinoma of the parietal lobe. Case report. A case of primary embryonal-cell carcinoma of the parietal lobe is reported. The unusually chronic presentation of such a malignant tumor is described. The atypical computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging characteristics of this lesion are presented. Review of the literature yielded no previous reports of a lobar embryonal-cell carcinoma. The rarity of intracranial germ-cell tumors presenting off the midline is discussed. 
The role of enhanced vagal activity on ischemic ventricular tachycardia: pharmacologic basis of inefficiency. The effects of pharmacologic modulation of vagal activity on ischemic ventricular tachycardia were evaluated in 21 conscious dogs after permanent left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion. Studies were done on spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (cycle length 383 +/- 100 msec, n = 21), 24 to 72 hours after LAD occlusion, and on inducible sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (cycle length 251 +/- 30 msec, n = 6), 4 to 7 days after LAD occlusion. Edrophonium (1 mg/kg intravenously), a cholinesterase inhibitor, and methacholine (0.1 to 1 mg intravenously), a muscarinic agonist, had no significant effect on the rate or QRS morphology of either type of tachycardia, despite severe slowing of the sinoatrial rate. Similarly, atropine (up to 60 micrograms/kg intravenously) had no effect on the rate and QRS morphology of either type of tachycardia. In an attempt to enhance myocardial drug delivery to the ischemic and infarcted left ventricle, edrophonium (1 mg/kg) and methacholine (0.1 to 0.2 mg) were injected retrogradely through the great cardiac vein. This did not impart any significant therapeutic advantage over the systemic intravenous route. Sympathetic beta blockade did not affect the therapeutic outcome (n = 5) with either edrophonium or methacholine. It is concluded that direct or indirect enhancement of cardiac vagal activity has no effect on ischemic ventricular tachycardia in this model of subacute myocardial infarction. The lack of efficacy appears to be independent of myocardial drug delivery to ischemic ventricular site(s) and background sympathetic activity. Such a lack of efficacy may be caused by ischemia-mediated degeneration of vagal nerve terminals, by altered responsiveness of muscarinic receptors at infarcted arrhythmogenic myocardial sites, or both. 
Conventional MR neuroangiography. MR angiography of the brain plays an important role in the diagnosis of vessel thrombosis and dissection, giant aneurysms, and occult vascular malformations. This essay highlights some of the features of the intra- and extracranial circulation that make conventional MR neuroangiography valuable in the demonstration of vascular anatomy and vascular disease. 
Comparative study of glass and antimony electrodes for continuous oesophageal pH monitoring. Oesophageal pH monitoring data are influenced by numerous patient or technique related factors, or both. In this study, data recorded with glass microelectrodes or antimony electrodes, both with external cutaneous Ag/AgCl reference electrodes, connected to two different recording devices are compared. Pearson correlation coefficients regarding the reflux index (% of the investigation time with a pH less than 4) ranged from poor to excellent (0.55 to 1.00). Differences in data recorded with glass electrodes are not significantly dependent on the recording device (r:0.93 to 1.00 for the reflux index). The correlation between data simultaneously recorded with antimony electrodes is lower, although not significantly different for the reflux index (0.90). Correlation between data recorded with glass and antimony probes is rather poor (0.55 to 0.70). Therefore data recorded with antimony electrodes cannot be compared with those recorded with glass electrodes. The mean pH recorded with glass electrodes is lower than that with antimony probes. 
Surgical pathology of gastrinoma. Site, size, multicentricity, association with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1, and malignancy. Specimens from the pancreas and duodenum of 26 patients with sporadic Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) and 18 patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) and hypergastrinemia (17 with ZES) were screened immunocytochemically for gastrinomas. Location, size, multicentricity, and malignancy of the gastrinomas were evaluated. The MEN-1 patients had gastrinomas in the duodenum (nine of 18), pancreas (one of 18), and periduodenal lymph nodes (two of 18). No gastrinoma was identified in six patients. Most duodenal gastrinomas were multiple (five of nine) and smaller than 0.6 cm (six of nine). Lymph node metastases were present in eight of 12 patients. All 26 patients with sporadic ZES had a solitary gastrinoma; 14 were found in the pancreas and had a diameter greater than 2 cm. Ten patients had a duodenal gastrinoma, two with a diameter less than 0.6 cm. In two patients, only periduodenal "lymph node gastrinomas" were detected. Eighteen of the sporadic gastrinomas were malignant. These results suggest that duodenal location and multicentricity of gastrinomas are associated with the MEN-1 syndrome, and solitary gastrinomas, either in the pancreas or the duodenum, are predominantly seen in sporadic ZES. 
Relative effects of diarrhea, fever, and dietary energy intake on weight gain in rural Bangladeshi children. Quantitative studies of morbidity, food intake, and somatic growth were done prospectively during 14 mo for 70 children aged 5-18 mo in two Bangladeshi villages. When random-effect regression models were used, monthly changes in weight were inversely related to proportions of days in the month with fever and diarrhea and positively related to energy intake per kilogram body weight. Interestingly, weight changes did not vary with age in this interval. Estimates indicate that increasing energy intakes to the recommended World Health Organization level would have a significantly greater effect on weight gain than would the elimination of diarrhea and fever. With energy at recommended intake and diarrhea and fever prevalence as found in US children, weight gain is predicted to be near that of the international reference population. Therefore, interventions aimed at improving dietary intake may be as important as infection-control programs for improving growth of children in poor developing nations. 
Central retinal vein occlusion associated with drusen of the optic disc. A 43-year-old man had gradual visual changes OD. Funduscopic examination revealed central retinal vein occlusion OD. Complete ocular examination revealed bilateral drusen of the optic disc, confirmed by b-scan ultrasonography. Complete systemic evaluation showed no other etiology for the central retinal vein occlusion. Over a ten-year follow-up, in the absence of systemic disease or other local ocular anomalies, we concluded that central retinal vein occlusion can arise from external compression secondary to drusen of the optic disc. 
A method for allocation of hearing handicap. A three-stage method is proposed for allocation of hearing handicap. First, for a given injury or noise exposure period, the percentage of loss allocable for each ear is calculated as a simple ratio of hearing change (after age correction) to final hearing level. Second, final hearing handicap is divided between the two ears using a formula derived from the 1979 AAO-HNS/AMA standard. The percentage of hearing handicap allocable to a given period for each ear is simply the product of that ear's scores from the first two steps. 
Acceleration of chronic myeloid leukemia correlates with calcitonin gene hypermethylation. Calcitonin gene methylation at CCGG sites were determined in 39 chronic myeloid leukemia patients by isoschizomeric restriction endonuclease analysis. A total of 27 patients were analyzed while still in the chronic phase: 20 patients had a normal gene, and seven had a hypermethylated gene. There were 12 patients initially studied in accelerated or blastic phases. All but one patient showed gene hypermethylation, suggesting a good correlation between gene methylation and disease stage. All five patients who, while still in the chronic phase, had a major 3.1-kb hypermethylated calcitonin gene fragment, accelerated within 2 to 27 months. In consecutively analyzed patients, the initially normal calcitonin gene changed to a hypermethylated state as the disease escalated. The hypermethylation predicted disease acceleration with a median lead time of 6 months before any morphologic or clinical signs of disease progression were seen. The disease progressed in 8 of 27 patients initially studied in the chronic phase: in only two patients this occurred without predictive methylation changes. The results suggest that the assessment of calcitonin gene methylation status may be a promising tool for monitoring chronic myeloid leukemia disease escalation. 
Single photon emission computed tomography in patients with acute hydrocephalus or with cerebral ischaemia after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), cerebral blood flow was studied in eight patients with gradual deterioration in the level of consciousness after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Four had cerebral ischaemia and four had acute hydrocephalus. In patients with cerebral ischaemia, single photon emission computed tomography scanning showed multiple regions with decreased uptake of technetium-99M labelled d,l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime (99mTcHM-PAO) mainly in watershed areas. In patients with acute hydrocephalus, decreased uptake was seen mainly in the basal parts of the brain: around the third ventricle, around the temporal horns of the lateral ventricles, and in the basal part of the frontal lobe. After serial lumbar puncture, there was improvement of the uptake of 99mTc HM-PAO in these basal areas in three (convincingly in two and slightly in the other) of the four patients accompanied by clinical improvement in these three patients. These results suggest that patients with acute hydrocephalus and impaired consciousness after SAH, in contrast to patients with cerebral ischaemia, have decreased cerebral blood flow predominantly in the basal parts of the brain. 
Clinical pharmacology of calcium antagonists. There have been major advances in the understanding of the basic pharmacology of drugs acting upon voltage-dependent and receptor-activated calcium channels using patch-clamp techniques. The structure of the L channel is known and the (different) binding sites for various calcium antagonists have been identified using the methods of molecular biology. Although calcium slow-channel antagonists are very widely used in the treatment of hypertension, advances in the clinical pharmacology of angina and, to a lesser extent, cardiac arrhythmias, have not kept up with the basic research in molecular biology. All of the calcium antagonists in current use dilate arteries, and their therapeutic action largely depends on this property. There is evidence of differences in response between arteries and veins, and some degree of selectivity between vascular territories, but the goal of much more specific or localized vasodilation has not been achieved. The most prominent difference between the three main classes of antihypertensive drugs is the mild reflex increase of heart rate seen with the dihydropyridines and the bradycardia seen with verapamil. Most of the side effects of calcium antagonists are also based on vasodilatation, such as flushing and headache. The mild edema often seen with the dihydropyridines probably depends on the changes in capillary pressure brought about by arterial dilatation. Despite their undoubted efficacy as vasodilators, there are no studies thus far which allow any conclusions as to the long-term effect of calcium antagonists on the morbidity and mortality due to hypertension. 
Efficient immortalization of luminal epithelial cells from human mammary gland by introduction of simian virus 40 large tumor antigen with a recombinant retrovirus. When defined in terms of markers for normal cell lineages, most invasive breast cancer cells correspond to the phenotype of the common luminal epithelial cell found in the terminal ductal lobular units. Luminal epithelial cells cultured from milk, which have limited proliferative potential, have now been immortalized by introducing the gene encoding simian virus 40 large tumor (T) antigen. Infection with a recombinant retrovirus proved to be 50-100 times more efficient than calcium phosphate transfection, and of the 17 cell lines isolated, only 5 passed through a crisis period as characterized by cessation of growth. When characterized by immunohistochemical staining with monoclonal antibodies, 14 lines showed features of luminal epithelial cells and of these, 7 resembled the common luminal epithelial cell type in the profile of keratins expressed. These cells express keratins 7, 8, 18, and 19 homogeneously and do not express keratin 14 or vimentin; a polymorphic epithelial mucin produced in vivo by luminal cells is expressed heterogeneously and the pattern of fibronectin staining is punctate. Although the cell lines have a reduced requirement for added growth factors, they do not grow in agar or produce tumors in the nude mouse. When the v-Ha-ras oncogene was introduced into two of the cell lines by using a recombinant retrovirus, most of the selected clones senesced, but one entered crisis and emerged after 3 months as a tumorigenic cell line. 
Effects of variable dose milrinone in patients with low cardiac output after cardiac surgery. European Multicenter Trial Group. We studied 99 adult patients after elective cardiac surgery who had low cardiac output (cardiac index less than 2.5 L/min/m2) in spite of adequate cardiac filling pressure (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure less than 8 mm Hg). Patients received milrinone by loading dose (50 micrograms/kg over a 10-minute period), followed by a continuous infusion of either 0.375, 0.5, or 0.75 micrograms/kg/min (low-, middle-, and high-dose groups, respectively) given for a minimum of 12 hours. Patients were allocated to each dosage group sequentially, not randomly. Hemodynamic measurements were made before the loading dose and at 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes, 3, 6, and 12 hours after the start of milrinone therapy. Further measurements were made at 2 and 4 hours after treatment was stopped. Milrinone therapy was associated with a rapid, well-sustained, and highly significant increase in cardiac index in all three dose groups (p less than 0.001), and a similar fall occurred in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in all groups (p less than 0.001). Significant increases occurred in heart rate in all three groups (p less than 0.001). Systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance also fell significantly, although changes in this latter parameter were less predictable and more dose dependent. Few serious treatment-related adverse effects were seen. We conclude that intravenous milrinone is an effective and safe therapy for the treatment of low output states after cardiac surgery. 
Biomechanical changes at the ankle joint after stroke. The resistance of the relaxed ankle to slow displacement over the joint movement range was measured on both sides of a group of hemiparetic stroke patients, in whom spasticity had been established for at least one year and who showed no clinical signs of contractures. The ankle joints of the age-matched normal subjects were flexible over most of the movement range, showing dramatically increasing stiffness only when the foot was dorsiflexed beyond 70 degrees, with a neutral range between 90-100 degrees, and a less dramatic increase in stiffness during plantarflexion. Hemiparetic patients showed identical curves to the normal subjects on the "healthy" side, ipsilateral to the causative cerebral lesion, but were significantly stiffer in dorsiflexion on the contralateral side, without change in the minimum stiffness range or during plantarflexion. Therefore significant changes in passive biomechanical properties occur at the affected ankle of hemiparetic subjects, predominantly as the result of a loss of compliance in the Achilles tendon, although an increase in the passive stiffness of the triceps surae may also occur. The contribution of these changes to the locomotor disability of hemiparetic patients is discussed. 
Abnormalities of the foot in patients with diabetes mellitus: findings on MR imaging. The MR appearances of foot problems in patients with diabetes mellitus are illustrated. MR has been found to be effective in the diagnosis of osteomyelitis, the most common indication for imaging the feet of diabetic patients. MR has the ability to image numerous pathologic processes, especially subtle soft-tissue changes, that are not detectable with other imaging methods. 
Neurologic aspects of cobalamin deficiency. We reviewed 153 episodes of cobalamin deficiency involving the nervous system that occurred in 143 patients seen over a recent 17-year period at 2 New York City hospitals. Pernicious anemia was the most common underlying cause of the deficiency. Neurologic complaints, most commonly paresthesias or ataxia, were the first symptoms of Cbl deficiency in most episodes. The median duration of symptoms before diagnosis and treatment with vitamin B12 was 4 months, although long delays in diagnosis occurred in some patients. Diminished vibratory sensation and proprioception in the lower extremities were the most common objective findings. A wide variety of neurologic symptoms and signs were encountered, however, including ataxia, loss of cutaneous sensation, muscle weakness, diminished or hyperactive reflexes, spasticity, urinary or fecal incontinence, orthostatic hypotension, loss of vision, dementia, psychoses, and disturbances of mood. Multiple neurologic syndromes were often seen in a single patient. In 42 (27.4%) of the 153 episodes, the hematocrit was normal, and in 31 (23.0%), the mean corpuscular volume was normal. Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were unusual even in anemic patients. In nonanemic patients in whom diagnosis was delayed, neurologic progression frequently occurred although the hematocrit remained normal. In 27 episodes, the serum cobalamin concentration was only moderately decreased (in the range of 100-200 pg/ml) and in 2 the serum level was normal. Neurologic impairment, as assessed by a quantitative severity score, was judged to be mild in 99 episodes, moderate in 39 and severe in 15. Severity of neurologic dysfunction before treatment was clearly related to the duration of symptoms prior to diagnosis. In addition, the hematocrit correlated significantly with severity, independent of the longer duration of symptoms in nonanemic patients. Four patients experienced transient neurologic exacerbations soon after beginning treatment with cyanocobalamin, with subsequent recovery. Followup evaluation was adequate to assess the neurologic response to vitamin B12 therapy in 121 episodes. All patients responded, and in 57 (47.1%), recovery was complete, with no remaining symptoms or findings on examination. The severity score was reduced by 50% or greater after treatment in 91% of the episodes. Residual long-term moderate or severe neurologic disability was noted following only 7 (6.3%) episodes. The extent of neurologic involvement after treatment was strongly related to that before therapy as well as to the duration of symptoms. The percent improvement over baseline neurologic status after treatment was inversely related to duration of symptoms and hematocrit. Some evidence of response was always seen during the first 3 months of treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Mortality in a cohort of long-term users of hormone replacement therapy: an updated analysis. OBJECTIVE--To reexamine the mortality experience of a cohort of long-term users of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in comparison with that reported previously for the same cohort of women, paying particular attention to cardiovascular mortality, deaths from breast and endometrial cancer, and deaths attributed to suicide or suspected suicide. DESIGN--Longitudinal cohort of 4544 long-term users of HRT amongst whom mortality is being monitored prospectively in comparison with expected rates in the female population of England and Wales (taking account of age and calendar period). SUBJECTS--4544 women, all of whom were recruited from specialist menopause clinics around Britain and had taken at least one year's continuous HRT at the time of recruitment to the study. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--All cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, deaths from female cancers, deaths attributed to suicide or suspected suicide. RESULTS--Overall mortality (based on 236 deaths over the entire study period from recruitment to December 1988) remained significantly lower than expected on the basis of national rates (relative risk (RR) 0.56, 95% confidence limits (CL) 0.47-0.66). When specific causes were considered, the only mortality ratios greater than unity were for injury, poisoning and violence (1.54, 95% CL 1.02-2.06), and for suicide and suspected suicide ('suicide') (2.40, 95% CL 1.68-3.11). Comparison of the ratios for the 112 additional deaths with those obtained in our previous analysis revealed that one of the few ratios to show any increase was that for breast cancer mortality. This rose from a significant deficit of 0.55 (95% CL 0.28-0.96) in the earlier period to 1.00 (95% CL 0.55-1.45) in the later period. There was also a suggestion of an increase in breast cancer risk with increasing duration since first use of HRT. Most of the other cause-specific ratios were very similar over the two periods. The ratio of death from all circulatory diseases was notably lower in the later analysis (RR 0.37, 95% CL 0.15-0.58) than in the earlier analysis (0.51, 95% CL 0.36-0.69), as were all of the subcategories of cardiovascular death. The mortality ratio for cancer of the ovary and uterine adnexa fell from 1.12 in the previous analysis to 0.63 (95% CL 0-1.41). The mortality ratio for 'suicide' also decreased, but was only slightly lower in the later period. As before, however, there was evidence of a relatively high prevalence of prior psychiatric problems amongst the recent 'suicide' deaths, suggesting that the excess of deaths from 'suicide' may be a manifestation of selection. CONCLUSION--These data are consistent with a beneficial effect of HRT on cardiovascular diseases, although updated information comparing progestogen-opposed and -unopposed treatment is not available. The increase in breast cancer mortality contrasts with the pattern for all other specific causes examined; taken together with the suggestion of an increase in breast cancer mortality with increasing interval since first exposure to HRT, this finding is somewhat worrying. 
Hereditary hyperparathyroidism and multiple ossifying jaw fibromas: a clinically and genetically distinct syndrome. A large previously reported family with hyperparathyroidism has been reinvestigated recently because of the occurrence of multiple ossifying jaw fibromas in two affected members of the third generation similar to the jaw tumors of four of five affected members of the first generation. These maxillary and mandibular tumors can be differentiated from the "brown tumors" of hyperparathyroidism because they can appear and enlarge even though the hypercalcemia is surgically corrected. These tumors are histologically distinct fibroosseous lesions without the giant cells seen in "brown tumors." The parathyroid enlargement was mostly uniglandular, with multiple tumors found occasionally. Studies in DNA linkage were performed within this large family and a similar family in Houston to determine if the gene for this syndrome, termed HRPT2, is linked to DNA markers on chromosome 11, to which the gene for multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 1 has been linked. (This linkage is supported by our findings in one family with MEN 1 reported here.) Linkage studies were also performed with markers on chromosome 10, to which the genes for MEN 2A and MEN 2B have been linked. Evidence against close linkage with chromosome 10 and chromosome 11 markers suggests that this clinically distinct syndrome is also genetically distinct. 
Association of a precore genomic variant of hepatitis B virus with fulminant hepatitis. A variant of hepatitis B virus has been described recently in HBsAg+ Mediterranean patients who lack HBeAg and who have an unusual and severe form of chronic hepatitis. This variant is unable to produce HBeAg because of the presence of a novel translational stop codon at the end of the precore region of the genome. By direct sequencing of DNA, generated by the polymerase chain reaction, we have evaluated the association between infection with this variant and the fulminant course of hepatitis B. Eighteen patients with fulminant hepatitis B were studied. Of the 15 cases from whose serum viral DNA could be sequenced, the variant was found in the admission sera of 8 of 9 HBeAg- patients but in none of 6 HBeAg+ patients who had fulminant hepatitis B. Patients harboring the variant progressed more rapidly into hepatic encephalopathy, but those infected with the variant strain alone had a greater likelihood of survival than those infected with the normal strain or a mixture. The mutant strain may emerge spontaneously during fulminant hepatitis as occurs in chronic hepatitis B infection during seroconversion from HBeAg to antibody. Alternately, and perhaps less commonly, patients may be infected with the variant ab initio. 
Accidental and intentional poisonings with ethylene glycol in infancy: diagnostic clues and management. Ethylene glycol has long been recognized as a potentially lethal poison and remains available today as automotive antifreeze and windshield deicer fluids. Ethylene glycol is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, with peak levels measured one to four hours after ingestion. Metabolism of the parent compound and the production of several organic acids are responsible for the metabolic acidosis observed in ethylene glycol poisoning. Target organ cellular damage is seen in the kidney, brain, myocardium, pancreas, and blood vessel walls. Renal tubular deposition of calcium oxalate crystals is felt to be responsible for the development of the severe renal injury which may accompany ethylene glycol ingestion. The clinical course is quite varied and includes inebriation, hematuria, cardiorespiratory compromise, and neurologic effects. Prompt diagnosis and initiation of treatment, including ethanol therapy and hemodialysis, is necessary to ameliorate the effects of ethylene glycol ingestion. Two cases of ethylene glycol poisoning, one accidental and one intentional, are reviewed. 
Psychological events are both risk factors in, and consequences of, chronic pain. This study questioned 2 assumptions often inherent in psychogenic explanations of pain: (1) that a relationship exists between pain and life events predating pain onset, and (2) that pain patients are a psychologically homogeneous group. Chronic pain sufferers in multiple settings and control subjects participated in this study in which the relationships between pain and 20 psychological variables were examined. Pain was defined and assessed in 3 different ways: (1) membership in a pain group, (2) number of specialists consulted for pain, and (3) pain intensity. Of the 20 psychological variables examined, only less emotional repression and greater "ergomania" (excessive work) were consistently associated with pain on all 3 pain criteria. In addition, pain patients were more likely to have had a relative with pain. Comparisons of pain patients in different settings showed that pain clinic patients reported having been more active throughout their lives, but were currently more depressed and experienced less life satisfaction than patients who were not in a specialized pain centre. These results are interpreted in the light of current multicausal views of pain and conclusions are drawn about the role of psychological variables both as risk factors in, and as consequences of pain. 
Modulation of alpha smooth muscle actin and desmin expression in perisinusoidal cells of normal and diseased human livers. It has been suggested that perisinusoidal liver cells (PSC) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of fibrocontractive changes. Using light and electron microscopic immunolocalization techniques, a series of 207 normal and pathologic human liver specimens were evaluated for the expression of alpha smooth muscle (SM) actin and desmin in this and other nonparenchymal cell types. In normal adult liver tissue, PSCs were practically devoid of desmin and exceptionally stained for alpha-SM actin, whereas this actin isoform frequently was encountered in PSCs from the embryonic to the adolescent period. A broad spectrum of pathologic conditions was accompanied by the presence of alpha-SM actin containing PSCs; these were detected preferentially in periportal or perivenular zones according to the predominant location of the underlying hepatocellular damage. The occurrence of this PSC phenotype generally was associated with fibrogenesis and was in some cases detected earlier than overt collagen accumulation. Fibrous bands subdividing liver tissue in cirrhosis and focal nodular hyperplasia, as well as desmoplastic reaction to malignant tumors, contained alpha-SM actin-rich cells admixed with variable proportions of cells coexpressing desmin. In end stages, this population was less numerous than in active fibrotic or cirrhotic processes. Using immunogold electron microscopy, alpha-SM actin was localized in microfilament bundles of typical PSCs. Our results are compatible with the assumption that the appearance of alpha-SM actin and desmin-expressing myofibroblasts results at least in part from a phenotypic modulation of PSCs. 
Long term reduction in sodium balance: possible additional mechanism whereby nifedipine lowers blood pressure OBJECTIVE--To assess the changes in sodium excretion and sodium balance after withdrawal of long term nifedipine. DESIGN--Single blind, placebo controlled study in patients receiving fixed sodium and potassium intakes. SETTING--Blood pressure unit of a teaching hospital in south London. PATIENTS--Eight patients with mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension who had been taking nifedipine 20 mg twice daily for at least six weeks. INTERVENTIONS--Withdrawal of nifedipine and replacement with matching placebo for one week. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Urinary sodium excretion and cumulative sodium balance, body weight, plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations, plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations, and blood pressure. RESULTS--During nifedipine withdrawal there was a significant reduction in urinary sodium excretion (day 1: -62.7 mmol/24 h; 95% confidence interval -90.3 to -35.0) and each patient retained a mean of 146 (SEM 26) mmol sodium over the week of replacement with placebo. Body weight and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations increased during the placebo period and seemed to be associated with the amount of sodium retained. Systolic blood pressure rose from 157 (9) to 165 (9) mmHg (95% confidence interval of difference -7.1 to 22.1) when nifedipine was replaced with matching placebo, and the rise seemed to be related to the amount of sodium that was retained. CONCLUSIONS--Nifedipine causes a long term reduction in sodium balance in patients with essential hypertension. This long term effect may contribute to the mechanism whereby nifedipine lowers blood pressure. 
Distribution of porfiromycin in EMT6 solid tumors and normal tissues of BALB/c mice. The distribution of porfiromycin was studied in BALB/c mice bearing EMT6 mammary tumors. The levels of 3H in blood and most tissues peaked approximately 15 minutes after intraperitoneal injection of [3H]porfiromycin. The levels of radioactivity present in most of the tissues and in the tumors were similar at 4 hours and 24 hours after administration. Most of the normal tissues showed uniform, low grain densities when analyzed by autoradiography; the liver and the small intestine had the highest labeling densities. Only kidney, bladder, and tumor showed differential distributions of grains from [3H]porfiromycin. In the kidney, higher grain counts were found in cortex than in medullary regions; grains were uniformly distributed within each region. In the bladder, the highest labeling densities were found in regions near the lumen. Tumor regions that had some necrotic features or regions of necrosis that included some viable cells showed higher labeling intensities than healthy-looking tumor regions, probably because the abnormal microenvironments in these regions led to increased rates of activation of porfiromycin to electrophilic species. These findings show that porfiromycin can reach and be activated in tumor regions containing cells resistant to many chemotherapeutic agents and to x rays. The results also support the concept that agents such as porfiromycin can target cells in specific microenvironmental subpopulations of solid tumors. 
Electrophysiologic study in acute lead poisoning. A 2-month-old girl with acute lead poisoning demonstrated electrophysiologic evidence of neurotoxicity. Motor nerve conduction studies of the median, ulnar, peroneal, and posterior tibial nerves revealed both axonal and demyelinating neuropathy. Somatosensory evoked potential studies of median and posterior tibial nerves demonstrated evidence of cortical involvement. Brainstem auditory evoked potential study disclosed the possibility of acoustic nerve involvement but no evidence of a brainstem lesion. Postmortem examination revealed cerebral edema and focal segmental demyelination of the median nerve. 
Pericardial cyst with partial erosion of the right ventricular wall. A case of pericardial cyst with partial erosion into the anterior wall of the right ventricle is presented. Cardiopulmonary bypass was necessary for excision of the cyst. This report helps to alert surgeons of the possible need for cardiopulmonary bypass during the removal of some pericardial cysts, especially in patients with signs and symptoms of infection and in whom preoperative imaging fails to show distinct margins between the cyst and cardiac structures. 
Current perception threshold screening for carpal tunnel syndrome. Screening for the onset of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), which is associated with excess ergonomic stresses of the wrist and hand, is a major concern in occupational medicine. CTS questionnaires, physical examinations, and quantitative sensory function determination through neuroselective current perception threshold (CPT) measurements were obtained from the median digital nerves of 16 assembly line workers who were symptomatic with hand pain. Median nerve evaluations by CPT detected sensory abnormalities in 75% of the workers, and abnormalities in 50% of the workers were detected by clinical evaluations (p less than .05, df = 22). CPT abnormalities were characterized as "hypoesthetic" in 25% and hyperesthesic in 42% of the workers. The noninvasive, nonaversive CPT technique provided sensitive and easily obtained quantitative measures. Regular use of this procedure in the occupational setting may assist in preventing the development of advanced CTS for it provides early detection of median nerve abnormalities. 
Philadelphia-negative (Ph-) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML): comparison with Ph+ CML and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. The Groupe Francais de Cytogenetique Hematologique. To better understand the Philadelphia-negative (Ph-) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and its relationships with Philadelphia-positive (Ph+) CML and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), a study was undertaken by the Groupe Francais de Cytogenetique Hematologique. Thirty-five Ph- CML patients were investigated and compared with 55 chronic phase Ph+ CML and 100 CMML patients. There were 12 M-BCR positive (M-BCR+) and 23 M-BCR negative (MBCR+) patients. No clinical or biologic differences were found between Ph+ and Ph-, M-BCR+ patients. In the Ph- group, M-BCR+ and M-BCR- patients differed significantly in age (47.7 +/- 6.6 v 67.0 +/- 6.1 years, respectively; P = .001), leukocytosis (153.4 +/- 135.1 v 58.5 +/- 37.7 10(9)/L, P = .002), relative monocytosis (1.8% +/- 1.2% v 5.6% +/- 1.4%, P = .048), absolute basophilia (8.5 +/- 9.7 v 0.9 +/- 1.5 10(9)/L, P = .001), percentage of immature myeloid precursors (IMP) in peripheral blood (29.0% +/- 9.5% v 15.3% +/- 8.1%, P = .001), and percentage of erythroblasts in bone marrow (BM) (6.5% +/- 3.5% v 14.6% +/- 3.6%, P = .001). Karyotypic abnormalities other than the Ph chromosome occurred in 0 of 12 M-BCR- at diagnosis and 7 of 23 M-BCR- Ph- CML (P = .033). None of the 13 investigated BCR- patients had detectable BCR/ABL transcripts using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and none had an N-RAS mutation. Cytologic findings showed a marked morphologic difference between M-BCR+ and M-BCR- patients, especially in the monocytic lineage. Dysmyelopoietic features in CMML and M-BCR- patients were very similar, and the differences were of quantitative order only. Using four criteria (monocytosis, percentage of IMP, basophilia, and percentage of erythroblasts in BM), patients could be divided into typical and atypical CML and this classification correlated well with molecular findings. We conclude that, while Ph-, M-BCR+, and Ph+ CML are identical diseases, Ph-, M-BCR- CML, and CMML have many similarities and might be only different aspects of a same entity. 
Effect of cisapride on chronic idiopathic constipation in children. The efficacy of cisapride, a new prokinetic drug, as a treatment for chronic functional constipation of childhood was studied in 20 constipated children. Each subject had a stool frequency less than 4/week and/or total gastrointestinal transit time greater than 33 hr and was randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with either cisapride (N = 10) or placebo (N = 10) for 12 weeks. Stool habits, total gastrointestinal transit time, and anorectal motility were evaluated in all children before and at the end of the treatment period. Cisapride significantly increased stool frequency from 1.2 +/- 0.6 to 5.1 +/- 1.9 stools/week (mean +/- SD; P less than 0.05), whereas the lesser effect of placebo was not significant (1.2 +/- 0.8 to 2.8 +/- 0.8 stools/week; P = 0.4). Both treatments significantly (P less than 0.05) decreased laxative or suppository use. Total gastrointestinal transit time was decreased by cisapride (90.8 +/- 9.2 hr to 57.2 +/- 20.2 hr; P less than 0.05) but was not affected by placebo. Anorectal manometry showed that cisapride, but not placebo, significantly decreased the rectoanal inhibitory reflex threshold and the conscious rectal sensitivity threshold. It is concluded that cisapride improves gastrointestinal motility and bowel habits in children with chronic idiopathic constipation and may be useful in the management of some children with this disorder. 
Procurement and transplantation of colonized cadaver skin. Cadaver skin is an important adjunct to burn care. This study was designed to measure the percentage of its contamination prior to grafting and to determine the clinical safety of its use. Cadaveric homografts from 19 donors were harvested, frozen, thawed, and used as a biological dressing. Cultures were obtained at the time of harvest, after incubation in antibiotics, and at actual transplantation. The homografts were 43 per cent, 68 per cent, and 50 per cent contaminant-free, respectively. Two of 14 patients lost their homografts due to infection. However, no patient developed an infection or lost the homograft due to an organism identified during the pretransplantation processing. Therefore, contaminant-free and slightly contaminated cadaver skin can be used safely as homografts. 
Studies in autotomy: its pathophysiology and usefulness as a model of chronic pain. An interesting behavioral syndrome results in animals from the same or similar types of lesions that lead to deafferentation pain in humans; many neurectomized animals begin to scratch, bite, or self-mutilate their denervated limb, a phenomenon termed autotomy. The proposition that this behavior in animals is a response to the chronic pain of peripheral nerve injury has met with considerable controversy. If this issue were resolved, then a better understanding of the neurophysiology of autotomy might help elucidate the mechanisms of the human conditions. To determine the association between deafferentation and the autotomy behavior, we developed a pharmacologically induced functional deafferentation preparation using chronic perineural lidocaine infusion of the sciatic nerve. This 'chronic lidocaine' model's behavior was compared with that of the neurectomy model. While autotomy was noted in 80% of the latter group, no animal undergoing a chronic perineural infusion of lidocaine autotomized. We thus conclude that autotomy is not a response to non-painful sensory deafferentation, but rather that this behavior is a response to pain. We also studied the development of autotomy in a variety of other focal denervation preparations. On the basis of these data, we conclude that autotomy is not due to loss of sensory input on a functional basis nor to an action potential-mediated process. Rather, nerve damage which coincidentally involves sensory loss is necessary and sufficient for the development of this behavior. We suggest that interruption of a humoral feedback process homeostatically operating within the first order sensory neuron with its effect exerted post-synaptically leads to autotomy. The evidence supports the existence of a loss of a transportable, humoral autotomy inhibitory factor. 
Thrombosis in systemic lupus erythematosus: a French collaborative study. A retrospective study was undertaken of 120 children with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) seen in Paris and its immediate suburbs who fulfilled at least four of the American College of Rheumatology diagnostic criteria for SLE, and in whom the disease was diagnosed before the age of 16 and between January 1975 and December 1987. Eleven of these children (eight girls and three boys) all more than 10 years of age (mean follow up 8.1 years; range 3-13) had thrombotic episodes (9%). Thrombosis was one of the presenting signs in seven patients; in five it was associated with typical symptoms of SLE, and in the other two the thrombotic episode was isolated and diagnosis of SLE was delayed one and three years. Of a total of 16 thrombotic episodes (six of which were recurrent), 14 involved the leg veins, and in four there was associated pulmonary embolism. There were two episodes that affected cerebral arteries. The American College of Rheumatology diagnostic criteria for SLE as well as the incidence of lupus anticoagulant, positive direct Coombs test, and vasculitis in this group of patients was compared with the incidence in patients with SLE but no thrombosis. Only lupus anticoagulant was significantly associated with thrombotic episodes: eight of 11 (73%) of patients with SLE and thrombotic (arterial or venous) episodes had lupus anticoagulant compared with only 10 of 74 patients (14%) with no history of thrombotic events in the same age group. 
Stimulation of atrial natriuretic peptide and vasopressin during retrograde mitral valvuloplasty. Acute mitral obstruction may lead to an increase in atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) due to increased atrial pressure and a large increase in arginine vasopressin (AVP) due to simultaneous arterial and ventricular baroreceptor unloading. We measured ANP and AVP concentration after transseptal puncture and during percutaneous retrograde mitral balloon valvuloplasty (PRMV) in 11 patients (mean age 57 +/- 12 years; nine women) with mitral stenosis and congestive heart failure. Atrial septal puncture per se resulted in a significant increase in ANP and AVP without a significant change in aortic pressure. Subsequent PRMV led to a further increase in ANP, a transient decrease in aortic pressure from 89 +/- 7 to 45 +/- 4 mm Hg, and a large (fivefold) increase in AVP. ANP and AVP were no longer different from baseline values 18 to 24 after the procedure. This study suggests that transseptal puncture and acute mitral obstruction are major stimuli to ANP release and that combined unloading of arterial and left ventricular mechanoreceptors is a very potent vasopressinergic stimulus. 
Cytokine messenger RNA stability is enhanced in tumor cells. Hematopoietic growth factors are produced by a number of human tumors. We extracted RNA from selected human tumor cells known to produce at least one hematopoietic growth factor and found high levels of abnormally stable cytokine messenger (m)RNA. Half-life experiments performed after preventing RNA synthesis by exposing cells to actinomycin D before RNA extraction showed stabilization of cytokine messages in tumor cells in liquid culture as well as in human tumor xenografts grown in mice. Exposure to the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (TPA) caused enhancement of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) message level in lung cancer cells and in control fibroblasts but elevated levels persisted far longer in the tumor cells. In normal cells, an AU-rich sequence in the 3' untranslated region of cytokine mRNAs confers lability to the message. Although a beta-globin gene expression vector containing this region appears to produce unstable mRNA in lung cancer cells, cytokine mRNAs, which also contain this sequence, are very stable in the tumors we studied. This may indicate that another region of the cytokine mRNA molecule is of greater importance than the AU-rich region in determining mRNA stability in tumor cells. 
Expression of embryonic globins by erythroid cells in juvenile chronic myelocytic leukemia. Juvenile chronic myelocytic leukemia (JCML) is a rare hematopoietic neoplasia of early childhood with distinct hematologic and biochemical features. We studied the biologic properties and the globin synthetic profiles of JCML erythroid cells both in vivo and in vitro from a total of 24 patients. In these cases we observed the exuberant colony-forming unit-macrophage (CFU-M) colony growth, as reported previously. Furthermore, in contrast to previous reports, we found significant erythroid colony growth in most of our cases (average: 1,182 burst-forming unit-erythroid [BFUe] per 10(5) plated cells, range: 40 to 6,927). This growth was by and large erythropoietin-dependent and was not greatly influenced by other added cytokines. By several criteria all erythroid colony growth detected in vitro was derived from JCML progenitors. The globin synthetic profile of JCML erythroid cells showed high levels of fetal hemoglobin both in vivo and in vitro (gamma/gamma + beta: 53% to 94% in reticulocytes, 62% to 98% in BFUe-derived cells). In addition (in seven cases studied) we detected embryonic globins (epsilon and zeta) at the protein and messenger RNA level, a novel finding for primary leukemic cells. We speculate that the transformed erythroid cells in JCML harbor a trans environment supporting expression of developmentally earlier genes (fetal, embryonic). However, in contrast to other acute or subacute leukemias, JCML erythroid cells also have the ability to reach full maturation to the red cell level, thus allowing detection of this primitive program in vivo. 
Midventricular obstruction associated with chronic systemic hypertension and severe left ventricular hypertrophy. Midventricular obstruction is an uncommon finding previously defined by catheterization and angiographic techniques in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This study describes the clinical and echocardiographic findings of 10 consecutive patients (mean age 73 years) with severe concentric left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and the unusual finding of a dynamic systolic obstruction located in the midportion of the left ventricle. All patients were known to have chronic hypertension, and none had a history or family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In each case, a well-defined, high velocity, turbulent jet was identified by Doppler color flow imaging and subsequently confirmed with conventional Doppler techniques. Septal and posterior wall thickness averaged 1.67 and 1.57 cm, respectively. Mean LV mass index was 199 g/m2 and ejection fraction averaged 78%. Peak systolic velocity obtained by continuous-wave Doppler averaged 2.7 m/s and appeared as either a "late-peaking" or a "spike and dome" configuration. Seven of 10 patients gave a history of syncope or severe presyncope at the time of echocardiographic examination. At a mean follow-up of 1 year, syncope or presyncope had resolved in 5 patients in whom medication was adjusted based on the ultrasound study, but persisted in 2 patients in whom diuretic therapy was continued. It is concluded that obstruction to systolic flow can occur at the mid-LV level in some patients with severe concentric LV hypertrophy and avoidance of medication known to lower LV volume may relieve symptoms of transient inadequate cardiac output. 
Prognostic factors in the conservative treatment of ureteric stones. A prospective study was made of 125 ureteric stones in order to detect factors which would predict the successful outcome of conservative treatment. The factors studied were the duration of pain prior to presentation, pyuria, haematuria, surface regularity of the stone and the degree of obstruction as seen radiologically. In stones less than or equal to 10 mm in size, conservative treatment was successful when the duration of pain was less than 30 days (39/45), when there was no significant pyuria (53/82), when the stones had an irregular surface (44/65) and when obstruction was only partial (55/88). Since most of these factors were interactive, further statistical analysis showed that duration of pain was the only significant factor in predicting the outcome of conservative treatment. In stones greater than 10 mm in size these factors had no predictive value and only 2/23 were passed spontaneously on conservative treatment. 
A quantitative histopathological study of right bundle branch block complicating acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether necrosis of the right bundle branch is responsible for development of right bundle branch block in acute myocardial infarction. Twenty patients with acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction were studied--10 with right bundle branch block (group A) and 10 without (group B)--to evaluate by serial sectioning the pathological extent of myocardial infarction surrounding the right bundle branch and also that of right bundle branch necrosis. Myocardial infarction reached the right bundle branch more than 8 mm above the moderator band in all of group A, whereas myocardial infarction reached the right bundle branch less than 3 mm above the moderator band in only three patients in group B. Nine hearts in group A showed significant necrosis of the right bundle branch. In group B and in one case with transient right bundle branch block no necrosis was found. The occurrence of right bundle branch block was almost entirely explained by necrosis of the right bundle branch, but transient right bundle branch block did develop without necrosis of the right bundle branch. 
Shoulder subluxation in hemiplegia: effects of three different supports. Shoulder subluxation in hemiplegia is a difficult problem to manage and it may be associated with pain and other complications. Measurements taken from x-rays have been used to obtain objective measures of shoulder subluxation, but have not been used to compare the effects of different shoulder supports. This study used x-ray measurements to evaluate different shoulder supports for subluxation in hemiplegia and to see if there was a significant difference between the Harris hemisling and the Bobath sling. The Harris hemisling gave good vertical correction of subluxation and compared closely to the uninvolved shoulder. The Bobath sling did not correct the subluxation as well, and the mean difference between the two slings was significant. The arm trough or lap board was less effective and tended to overcorrect. The Harris hemisling and arm trough or lap board had horizontal measurements similar to the uninvolved shoulders. The Bobath sling, however, distracted the glenohumeral joint horizontally and was more variable. The mean horizontal difference between the Harris hemisling and the Bobath sling was significant. These results support the effectiveness and specificity of shoulder support to decrease subluxation after hemiplegia. 
Prevention of portal hypertension and portosystemic shunts by early chronic administration of clonidine in conscious portal vein-stenosed rats. The hemodynamic effects, including mesenteric-systemic shunts of early chronic administration of clonidine, were studied in conscious, unrestrained, portal vein-stenosed rats. In rats receiving early chronic clonidine (600 micrograms.kg-1.day-1 by gavage), begun 3 days before portal vein stenosis and then administered continuously for 10 consecutive days, portal pressure (10.0 +/- 1.5 mm Hg) and degree of mesenteric-systemic shunts (58% +/- 25%) were significantly lower than in the placebo group (15.2 +/- 1.5 mm Hg and 83% +/- 7%, respectively). The effects were observed either 2 to 3 hr or 18 to 24 hr after the last dose of clonidine. In rats receiving clonidine continuously for 5 days, starting 5 days after portal vein stenosis, portal pressure (11.0 +/- 1.3 mm Hg) was significantly lower than in the placebo group, but mesenteric-systemic shunts (82% +/- 8%) were not significantly different. In rats receiving a single oral dose of clonidine (600 micrograms/kg) 10 days after portal vein stenosis, portal pressure (11.8 +/- 2.1 mm Hg), measured 2 to 3 hr after clonidine administration, was significantly lower than in the placebo group. Mesenteric-systemic shunts (83% +/- 8%), however, were not significantly different from the placebo group. In addition, 18 to 24 hr after a single dose of clonidine, hemodynamic values returned to basal conditions. We also demonstrated that chronic clonidine administration begun before portal vein stenosis can reduce the initial increase in portal pressure after this procedure. We concluded that early chronic clonidine administration reduces the severity of portal hypertension and the development of portosystemic shunts in portal vein-stenosed rats. 
Spinal muscular atrophy is not the result of mutations at the beta-hexosaminidase or GM2-activator locus. The disease locus for the clinically heterogeneous childhood spinal muscular atrophies (SMA) maps to the chromosome 5 subregion, 5q11.2-13.3. The beta-subunit of beta-D-N-acetylhexosaminidase (hexosaminidase) (EC 3.2.1.52) (Hex B) maps to the same region, and the protein required for substrate recognition by this enzyme, GM2-activator protein, likewise maps to chromosome 5. We have investigated the possibility of allelic variation among some forms of SMA and hexosaminidase deficiency. Recombination between the Hex B and SMA loci eliminates this enzyme as a candidate site for defects causing the illness. Furthermore, we show that, despite previous evidence to the contrary, the GM2-activator locus does not map to chromosome 5, thereby eliminating it as a candidate gene for SMA. 
Randomized comparative study of hemaccel vs. albumin infusion after total paracentesis in cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites. Fifty-four cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites were treated with one-session large-volume paracentesis and randomly assigned to two groups. The first group was infused with human albumin, and the second group was infused with hemaccel at doses with comparable oncotic power. The two groups were compared for incidence of complications, recurrence of massive ascites after hospital dismissal and survival rate. The incidence of complications traditionally related to paracentesis, the probability of requiring readmission to the hospital for ascites (p = 0.48) and the probability of survival after entry into the study (p = 0.85) were the same for the two groups. A multivariate analysis of 16 parameters, including treatment modality, identified absolute unresponsiveness to diuretics as the only independent predictor of mortality. These results indicate that hemaccel infusion may safely replace albumin infusion after total paracentesis for cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites. 
Preoperative hemostatic activity and excessive bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass. The rationale for predicting the risk of excessive postoperative bleeding by assessing the hemostatic status of a patient before cardiopulmonary bypass was investigated. A novel, rapid, overall test (hemostatometry) consisting of a physiologically relevant test of platelet function (shear-induced hemostasis) and coagulation was performed using nonanticoagulated blood and compared with the routine coagulation screen. Two hundred five patients undergoing elective coronary revascularization were studied 3 to 4 days before operation. Forty-nine bled excessively for nonsurgical reasons; none were predicted by the routine coagulation tests. Using a stepwise discriminant analysis, hemostatometry correctly predicted 31 of 49 (63%). Thirty of 156 predicted as bleeders by hemostatometry did not bleed. Thus, preoperative hemostatometry predicted 77% of the true outcome. The false predictions suggest, however, that certain bleeding abnormalities probably acquired during cardiopulmonary bypass cannot be predicted. These findings do not justify the routine use of preoperative tests in assessing the bleeding risk in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. 
Estimates of radiation absorbed dose for intraperitoneally administered iodine-131 radiolabeled B72.3 monoclonal antibody in patients with peritoneal carcinomatoses. Using a newly available model for determining estimates of radiation absorbed dose of radioisotopes administered intraperitoneally, we have calculated absorbed dose to tumor and normal tissues based on a surgically controlled study of radiolabeled antibody distribution. Ten patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis received intraperitoneal injections of the murine monoclonal antibody B72.3 radiolabeled with 131I. Biodistribution studies were performed using nuclear medicine methods until laparotomy at 4-14 days after injection. Surgical biopsies of normal tissues and tumor were obtained. The marrow was predicted to be the critical organ, with maximum tolerated dose [200 rad (2 Gy) to marrow] expected at about 200 mCi (7.4 GBq). In patients with large intraperitoneal tumor deposits, the tumor itself is an important source tissue for radiation exposure to normal tissues. Local "hot-spots" for tumor-absorbed dose were observed, with maximum tumor-absorbed dose calculated at 11,000 rad (11 Gy) per 100 mCi (3.7 GBq) administered intraperitoneal; however, tumor rad dose varied considerably. This may pose serious problems for curative therapy, especially in patients with large tumor burdens. 
Use of hydroxyurea in chronic myeloid leukemia during pregnancy: a case report. The concomitant occurrence of pregnancy and chronic myeloid leukemia is uncommon. The use of hydroxyurea in chronic myeloid leukemia during pregnancy is unknown. We report on a patient with chronic myeloid leukemia in whom hydroxyurea was used during pregnancy with a successful outcome for both mother and fetus. 
Evidence for the segregation of a major gene in human susceptibility/resistance to infection by Schistosoma mansoni. Severe clinical disease caused by the major human parasite Schistosoma mansoni is the consequence of high and prolonged infections. Epidemiological studies indicate that, for individuals having frequent contacts with cercaria-infested waters, both infection intensities and reinfection after treatment depend, in large part, on their intrinsic susceptibility/resistance to infection, suggesting the role of genetic factors in human resistance to S. mansoni. To investigate whether a major gene controls human susceptibility/resistance to infection by S. mansoni, segregation analysis of infection intensities, adjusted for the factors relevant in schistosomiasis (water contact, age, sex), was performed on 20 Brazilian pedigrees (269 individuals), using both the unified mixed model and the regressive model of analysis. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that there is a codominant major gene controlling human susceptibility/resistance to infection by S. mansoni. Parameter estimates indicate a frequency of .20-.25 for the deleterious allele; thus, about 5% of the population is predisposed to high infections, 60% is resistant, and 35% has an intermediate, although fairly good, level of resistance. These findings provide a genetic basis for earlier observations on the lower resistance and the predisposition to reinfection of certain individuals. In addition to the detection of a major gene effect, the data suggest that immunity to S. mansoni develops progressively during childhood to reach a maximum around the age of puberty. The implications of these results for the strategy to be used in endemic areas to reduce morbidity and to control parasite transmission are discussed. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma in a recurrent thoracic chordoma: case report and literature review. Malignant transformation in a recurrent chordoma in the thoracic region is extremely uncommon. One new case, as well as a review of spinal chordomas that have undergone malignant transformation, is reported. Such cases emphasize the importance of the aggressive initial surgical treatment of spinal tumors. 
Effect of NG-monomethyl L-arginine on endothelium-dependent relaxation in arterioles of one-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats. Dose-response curves to topically applied acetylcholine, bradykinin, and nitroprusside were obtained by intravital microscopy in arcading arterioles of the spinotrapezius muscle of control (n = 9) and one-kidney, one clip hypertensive (1K1C) rats (n = 11) of 4 weeks' duration before and during superfusion with the specific inhibitor of nitric oxide formation NG-monomethyl L-arginine (LNMMA) (10(-4) M) and both LNMMA (10(-4) M) and indomethacin (2.8 x 10(-5) M). Resting arteriolar tone was higher in 1K1C rats than in controls, and vasodilation to acetylcholine and bradykinin, but not to nitroprusside, was reduced (p less than 0.05) in 1K1C rats compared with controls. LNMMA increased arteriolar tone (p less than 0.05) and inhibited the vasodilator responses to acetylcholine and bradykinin (p less than 0.05) in controls but not in 1K1C rats. LNMMA did not alter the response to nitroprusside in either group. Addition of indomethacin to LNMMA increased arteriolar tone and markedly reduced the response to bradykinin, but not to acetylcholine or nitroprusside, in both groups. These findings suggest that resting arteriolar tone is increased in 1K1C rats partially because of the decreased basal release or synthesis of nitric oxide. Responses to the endothelium-dependent vasodilators acetylcholine and bradykinin were attenuated in 1K1C rats, possibly because of changes in synthesis or release of nitric oxide for acetylcholine and of prostacyclin for bradykinin, because the response to the endothelium-independent vasodilator nitroprusside did not differ between the groups. 
Mutations of the p53 gene in lymphoid leukemia. p53 is currently considered to be a tumor suppressor gene product, and its alterations are suggested to be involved in several human malignancies. Here we show evidence of the possible involvement of p53 gene mutations in lymphoid leukemias studied by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, single strand conformation polymorphism analysis, and nucleotide sequencing. Fourteen patients with various leukemias were examined and two with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia were identified to have mutations in the coding region of the p53 gene. These mutations included point mutation, triplet deletion, and single nucleotide insertion. Furthermore, expression of the wild-type p53 mRNA was not detected in the samples from these three patients. In one of them, chromosome 17p was deleted, suggesting the absence of the nonmutated p53 gene, whereas in the other two patients, chromosome 17p seemed to be intact by cytogenetic analysis. Our results suggest that alterations of the p53 gene may have a role in the genesis of some leukemias. 
Effects of treatment with nasal continuous positive airway pressure on atrial natriuretic peptide and arginine vasopressin release during sleep in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea. 1. Patients with obstructive sleep apnoea have increased diuresis during sleep, which decreases with nasal continuous positive airway pressure treatment. These changes have been attributed to an increased release of atrial natriuretic peptide in obstructive sleep apnoea, and its decrease with continuous positive airway pressure treatment. 2. In order to clarify the change in plasma atrial natriuretic peptide level and to investigate the underlying mechanisms, blood samples were taken at 10 min intervals from nine patients with obstructive sleep apnoea during two nights when the patients were either untreated or treated with continuous positive airway pressure. Polysomnographic monitoring, including transcutaneous oximetry, and measurement of oesophageal pressure were performed simultaneously. Plasma arginine vasopressin was also measured. 3. The plasma level of arginine vasopressin did not change. The level of atrial natriuretic peptide was high and exhibited secretion bursts in six out of the nine patients; it drastically decreased with continuous positive airway pressure treatment. 4. Across the patients, the mean plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide was correlated with the degree of hypoxaemia and the degree of oesophageal pressure swings during the sleep apnoeas. 5. Within the patients, cross-correlation studies suggested that the atrial natriuretic peptide secretory bursts were related either to the oesophageal pressure swings or to the apnoea-related hypoxaemia. 6. We conclude that release of atrial natriuretic peptide decreases with continuous positive airway pressure treatment in those patients with obstructive sleep apnoea who have increased release of atrial natriuretic peptide before treatment. 
Mastoid surgery at the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital 1986-1988. Eighty-three children between ages 0-12 years had mastoid surgery in the three year period 1986-88. The indications were acute mastoiditis (30 children), uncontrolled chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM) (24 children), cholesteatoma (22 children) and a miscellaneous group (7 children). Forty-seven per cent of those with acute mastoiditis were under one year but the 27 per cent with cholesteatoma as the precipitating cause were 4-12 years. Twenty-three per cent had significant complications. Typmano-mastoid surgery was employed to resolve uncontrolled CSOM. Children were between 2-12 years and 62 per cent were below the 25th centile for weight. Seventy-nine per cent of the tympanic membrane grafts were successful. The children with cholesteatoma were between 3-12 years and 76 per cent were below the 25th centile for weight. Eight of them only presented after the onset of acute mastoiditis. One child had a definite congenital cholesteatoma. Only one had a pars flaccida origin of the cholesteatoma sac and only eight an origin from the postero-superior pars tensa. All had open cavity surgery. When the cavity was lined by temporalis fascia, healing was improved markedly. 
Cytotoxic activity in plasma from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The present study evaluates an assay of cytotoxic effect of plasma from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Plasma from 20 recently diagnosed ALS patients induced hemolysis of normal red blood cells with a significantly greater intensity than that of normal controls. After at least 1 month of treatment with prednisone and azathioprine, the hemolytic activity of ALS plasma was reduced but was still higher than that of control plasma. 
Longitudinal study of cerebral spinal fluid drainage in polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase in paraplegia associated with thoracic aortic cross-clamping. It has been hoped that pharmacologic prophylaxis in thoracic aortic cross-clamping may avert the unpredictable complication of spinal cord paraplegia, may avoid the mechanical difficulties associated with shunts, partial bypass, or monitoring devices, and may serve as a substitute for or as an adjunct to cerebral spinal fluid drainage. Toward this end 21 mongrel dogs were studied in four groups and underwent 60 minutes of thoracic aortic cross-clamping: group I, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping; group II, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping and cerebral spinal fluid drainage; group III, five with thoracic aortic cross-clamping, cerebrospinal fluid drainage and intravenous administration of a single dose (5000 units/kg) of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD) given 15 to 20 minutes before thoracic aortic cross-clamping; and group IV, six with thoracic aortic cross-clamping and PEG-SOD. Paraplegia was graded by the Tarlov method at 24 hours and up to 5 days after thoracic aortic cross-clamping. The carotid and femoral artery pressures, the central venous pressure, and core temperature, taken during the experiment and at the time the dogs were killed, were found to be similar between groups. At 24 hours all dogs in group I were paraplegic; groups II and III had no paraplegic dogs (p less than 0.01), and group IV had fewer paraplegic dogs (two of six) than group I (p less than 0.05). Paraplegia was averted in all dogs treated with cerebral spinal fluid drainage, even 5 days after thoracic aortic cross-clamping. 
Adrenal pheochromocytoma presenting with persistent abdominal and flank pain. Pheochromocytoma is classically associated with paroxysms of headache and hypertension. Its presentation, however, may be more varied and subtle. We present a case of an adolescent female who complained of right upper quadrant and flank pain. A right adrenal pheochromocytoma was diagnosed and subsequently removed. The pertinent literature is discussed. 
Return of interdigestive motor complex after abdominal surgery. End of postoperative ileus? Gastrointestinal mechanical activity was studied in 13 patients after different surgical procedures in a fasted and fed state and after pharmacological stimulation. Mechanical activity was recorded by means of a multi-pressure sensor probe placed intraoperatively into the jejunum. Abdominal surgery abolished normal motility only for a short period of time. The time for the reappearance of regular recurring activity fronts varied with the type of the surgical procedure from 3 hr after cholecystectomy to the sixth postoperative day after colon resection. The fed pattern occurred after the first postoperative interdigestive motor complex in all experiments. Stimulation was observed with ceruletide, which induced contractile activity in the small intestine during postoperative ileus. No coordinated caudad propagating activity was observed. The postoperative interdigestive motor complex did not correlate in time with the first passage of flatus and stool in our patients. Thus, the restoration of motility in the small intestine did not coincide with the clinical relief from the so-called "physiological" postoperative ileus. 
Superior mesenteric artery syndrome in acute traumatic quadriplegia: case reports and literature review. Superior mesenteric artery syndrome is a condition in which the third portion of the duodenum is intermittently compressed by the overlying superior mesenteric artery, resulting in gastrointestinal obstruction. Predisposing factors include rapid weight loss, prolonged supine positioning, and using a spinal orthosis, all of which are common among acute traumatic quadriplegic patients. This paper presents three patients, aged 24, 16, and 20 years, with traumatic quadriplegia treated with supine positioning and cervical orthoses, who had postprandial nausea and emesis, bloating, and abdominal pain during rehabilitation. Upper gastrointestinal radiographic series demonstrated abrupt duodenal obstruction to barium flow in all three patients. Two of the patients had complete relief of symptoms with conservative management, and one required surgical duodenojejunostomy. Enhanced awareness of this condition may result in improved recognition of this disease as a cause of persistent, unexplained gastrointestinal disturbances in quadriplegic persons, thereby optimizing its treatment and reducing its potential morbidity. 
Significance of anti-phospholipid antibodies in patients with lupus nephritis. Anti-phospholipid antibodies (APA) as markers or mediators of thrombosis in lupus could be of pathogenetic significance in nephritis, since glomerular capillary thrombi are an indicator of subsequent renal dysfunction. Isotype specific APA antibodies were measured, using cardiolipin as the antigen, in 76 patients with lupus nephritis. Twenty-nine percent of the patients had elevated IgG APA. Overall, 43% of patients showed raised levels of at least one isotype. In general, APA had specificity for anionic phospholipids. In vitro lupus anticoagulant activity was associated with all three isotypes of APA, but only the IgM isotype correlated with the biological false positive test for syphilis. APA were not associated with thromboses or neurological involvement, and only the IgA isotype correlated with thrombocytopenia. We confirmed an association between the presence of intraglomerular thrombi and serum IgG APA. However, we found no association between APA and renal histological pattern, or long-term renal function. Our data, therefore, do not support a major pathogenetic role for APA in the nephritis of lupus in treated patients. 
Submaximal exercise thallium-201 SPECT for assessment of interventional therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Submaximal thallium-201 stress testing has been shown to provide important diagnostic and prognostic information in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the diagnostic value of early submaximal stress testing and thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) after interventional therapy. Scintigraphic results from 56 patients with infarctions, who underwent acute thrombolytic therapy, angioplasty, or both, were compared with late (6 weeks) functional outcome as assessed by radionuclide ventriculography and with results of discharge coronary angiography. A linear correlation was found between the extent of thallium-201 SPECT perfusion defect and late ventricular function (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01). Forty-two percent of patients with large SPECT perfusion defects had normal left ventricular ejection fractions, suggesting an overestimation of infarct size by early imaging. Sensitivity and specificity of thallium-201 SPECT for detection of coronary artery stenosis in noninfarct territories was 57% and 46%, respectively, indicating limited diagnostic definition of extent of underlying coronary artery disease. Results of follow-up coronary angiography showed a significant relationship between the size of the initial perfusion defect and early restenosis or reocclusion of the infarct artery. Thus the extent of early thallium-201 perfusion defects correlates with late functional outcome but appears to overestimate the degree of injury. Submaximal thallium-201 stress testing allows only limited characterization of underlying coronary artery disease. Early assessment of infarct size may identify a patient population at high risk for reocclusion of the infarct artery. 
Intelligence at six years in relation to neonatal bilirubin levels: follow-up of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Clinical Trial of Phototherapy. Results of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Randomized Controlled Trial of Phototherapy were examined for the relationship of neonatal bilirubin level to neurological and developmental outcome at 6-year follow-up. This analysis focused on 224 control children with birth weight of less than 2000 g. Bilirubin levels were maintained below previously specified levels by the use of exchange transfusion only (24%). Rates of cerebral palsy were not significantly higher for children with elevated maximum bilirubin level than for those whose level remained low. No association was evident between maximum bilirubin level and IQ (Full Scale, Verbal, or Performance) by simple correlation analysis (r = -.087, P = .2 for Full Scale) or by multiple linear regression adjusting for factors that covary with IQ (beta = -.15, P = .58). IQ was not associated with mean bilirubin level, time and duration of exposure to bilirubin, or measures of bilirubin-albumin binding. Thus, over the range of bilirubin levels permitted in this clinical trial, there was no evidence of bilirubin toxicity to the central nervous system. Measures used to control the level of bilirubin in low birth weight neonates appear to prevent effectively the risk of bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. 
Inverted colonic diverticulum: air contrast barium enema findings in six cases. A polypoid elevation of the colonic wall was identified on air contrast barium enema in six patients. The abnormality in each case was found to be an inverted colonic diverticulum. Inverted diverticula appeared as broad-based, smooth, sessile polyps measuring 1.5-2.0 cm. In five of the six patients a characteristic central umbilication and/or evidence of barium within the polyp could be identified. The diagnosis was confirmed in three patients by demonstrating an everted diverticulum replacing the suspected lesion. In the remaining three patients, two of whom had normal findings on colonoscopy, the diagnosis was strongly suggested by the presence of barium extending into the substance of the mass. Additional radiologic maneuvers or a second study may permit accurate diagnosis if the possibility of inverted diverticulum is considered. However, even when the diverticulum cannot be demonstrated, a central umbilication or barium within a smooth intraluminal projection should suggest inverted diverticulum and prevent unnecessary endoscopy or inadvertent diverticulectomy. 
Persistent polyclonal B lymphocytosis with Epstein-Barr virus antibodies and subsequent malignant pulmonary blastoma. Persistent polyclonal B lymphocytosis (PPBL), a rare benign lymphoproliferative disorder, occurred in a 25 year old woman. The lymphocytes showed the phenotype cIgM+, FMC7+, CD19+, CD20+, which was similar to that seen in Waldenstrom's macroglobinaemia, but the proliferation was repeatedly shown to be polyclonal both immunologically and by immunoglobulin gene rearrangement studies. Eleven years after presentation the patient developed a malignant pulmonary blastoma, a rare pulmonary tumour of combined epithelial and mesenchymal origin. The failure to develop a lymphoid malignancy over 11 years together with immunological and genetic evidence of polyclonality confirms that PPBL is a benign lymphoproliferative disorder. The subsequent occurrence of a nonhaemopoietic malignancy suggests that benign lymphoid proliferations, like their malignant counterparts, may predispose to the development of neoplasia. A role for Epstein-Barr virus in the pathogenesis of one or both of these rare conditions is suggested by the finding of raised Epstein-Barr viral capsid antigen titres. 
Family history in patients with transient ischemic attacks. To determine the influence of family history on vascular disease, we surveyed hospital patients discharged with a diagnosis of transient ischemic attack. Of 117 respondents, 81 knew their family history for myocardial infarction and 81 knew their family history for stroke. Of 83 responding 43 reported a personal history of myocardial infarction, and of 85 responding 66 reported a personal history of stroke. As expected, there was an association between positive family and personal histories of myocardial infarction in younger (aged less than 70 years) patients (Fisher's two-tailed exact test, p = 0.014). This association was reversed for stroke (Fisher's two-tailed exact test, p = 0.017). Older (aged greater than or equal to 70 years) patients had a stronger association between positive family and personal histories of stroke; 14 (74%) of 19 older patients with a positive personal history of stroke had a positive family history of stroke. The reason for this reversal in the relation between family and personal histories of stroke compared with myocardial infarction may relate to the older age at onset of most strokes, differing stroke subtypes in older age groups, or lower rates of fatal myocardial infarction. This study suggests that familial factors may be important in some subtypes of cerebrovascular disease. Familial effects may be different in vascular diseases of the heart and brain. 
Concomitant benefit of preoperative irradiation in preventing pancreas fistula formation after pancreatoduodenectomy. Preoperative irradiation improves both the resectability and curability of carcinoma of the pancreas head area and should improve patient survival. We retrospectively investigated the value of preoperative irradiation in preventing pancreatic fistula formation. Of 76 consecutive patients who underwent pancreaticojejunostomy by mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis with a stent catheter after pancreatoduodenectomy, 22 had received preoperative irradiation. The irradiation field included the anastomotic site. In two patients, accidental dislocation of the stent catheter was the apparent cause of fistula formation, but the other 21 patients in the irradiated group developed no fistula. In contrast, nine (17%) of 53 patients in the nonirradiated group developed fistulas. In the irradiated group, preoperative selenomethionine Se 75 scintigraphy revealed a cold area corresponding to the pancreas body, which was included in the irradiation field. Thus, a putative decrease in exocrine function at the pancreatic anastomotic site could explain why fistula formation was prevented by preoperative irradiation. 
Hypertension, cardiac disease, and compliance in minority patients. In minorities, as in the general population, hypertension is taken seriously because it is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Until recently, our understanding of the role that hypertension plays in the heart disease seen in minorities has been limited by a paucity of prospective data regarding the prevalence, natural history, and pathophysiology of the disease process in minority populations. In the last few years large-scale epidemiologic studies and well-controlled clinical studies alike have confirmed usually high rates of hypertension-related morbidity and mortality in minorities, particularly blacks and Hispanics. The severity of end-organ damage, both cardiac and renal, that is seen in these patients--especially when coupled with the severe cerebrovascular damage that is also more common in black and Hispanic hypertensives--mandate that more effective public health measures be taken to reduce the incidence of hypertension in these patient populations. Because hypertension is usually without significant clinical symptoms, noncompliance with drug therapy and high dropout rates are common in all patient populations. They are strikingly higher in inner-city populations, however, where illiteracy, poverty, homelessness, and high rates of chemical dependency combine to exacerbate an already serious problem in treating hypertensive patients. Inner-city patients are, increasingly, black and Hispanic patients, and these patients are more likely to be underinsured or uninsured, to be functionally illiterate in English, to be disinclined to seek health care, and to be less capable of following a prescribed regimen than the populace as a whole. The nature of the therapeutic regimen itself is probably the most important determinant of compliance, and compliance with drug therapy will be improved if the clinic chooses a simplified drug regimen and avoids drugs that produce intolerable side effects. Once-a-day--or, with transdermal clonidine, one-a-week--single-drug therapy may not be possible in all patients, but multiple drug therapy and multiple daily dosing schedules should be avoided wherever possible. 
Fetal death associated with measles virus infection of the placenta. A case of fetal death at 25 weeks' gestation, which was associated with maternal measles infection, is described. Immunohistochemical study revealed measles virus antigen in the syncytial trophoblastic cells and decidua but not in the fetus. Results suggest that fetal death was caused by measles virus infection in the placenta. As far as we know, this is the first report in which a measles virus antigen was detected in the placenta by the immunohistochemical method. 
Effect of mitral regurgitation on pulmonary venous velocities derived from transesophageal echocardiography color-guided pulsed Doppler imaging. The effect of mitral regurgitation on pulmonary venous flow velocity was studied in 66 patients undergoing transesophageal echocardiography. Nine patients were studied intraoperatively before and after surgery, so that 75 pulmonary venous flow tracings were analyzed. Fifty-four patients had no significant (0 to 1+) mitral regurgitation and 21 had significant (2 to 3+) mitral regurgitation. Comparison of both groups revealed significant differences in the pulmonary venous flow pattern. In patients with no significant mitral regurgitation, the peak systolic velocity was higher (55 +/- 16 vs. -4 +/- 16 cm/s; p less than 0.0001) and the peak diastolic velocity was lower (43 +/- 13 vs. 59 +/- 17 cm/s; p less than 0.01) when compared with values in patients with significant mitral regurgitation. Consequently, the peak systolic/diastolic velocity ratio was significantly higher in the patients without significant mitral regurgitation (1.4 +/- 0.5 vs. 0.4 +/- 1.3; p less than 0.0001). The same trend was noted with respect to the systolic and diastolic velocity integrals. As the degree of mitral regurgitation increased, the peak diastolic velocity and diastolic velocity integral increased, whereas the peak systolic velocity and systolic velocity integral decreased. In patients with severe mitral regurgitation, the systolic flow became reversed (retrograde). The sensitivity of reversed systolic flow for severe mitral regurgitation was 90% (9 of 10), the specificity was 100% (65 of 65), the positive predictive value was 100% (9 of 9), the negative predictive value was 98% (65 of 66) and the predictive accuracy was 99% (74 of 75). 
Role of extended aortoplasty related to the definition of coarctation of the aorta. One hundred thirty-nine patients underwent operation for coarctation of the aorta. Age ranged from 1 day to 21 years and weight, from 1.5 to 70.4 kg. Numerous methods of repair were used. The operative mortality was low (1.3%), and 17 patients (11.3%) died late. Recoarctation occurred in 13 patients (9.4%). We attempted to correlate mortality and recoarctation with the surgical procedure. A review of the literature revealed no classifications of coarctation that applied to the anatomical and pathological variations we found at the time of operation. Therefore, we devised a surgical classification to separate the various entities in the spectrum of coarctation: type I = primary coarctation; type II = coarctation with isthmus hypoplasia; and type III = coarctation with tubular hypoplasia involving the isthmus and segment between the left carotid and left subclavian arteries. Each of these types has subtypes: A = with ventricular septal defect and B = with other major cardiac defects. We believe that rather than labeling one procedure as "the procedure of choice," providing this classification will allow the surgeon to use a method of repair that is suited to the anatomical variation. 
Improvement of outcome for infants of birth weight under 1000 g. The Victorian Infant Collaborative Study Group. The two year outcome of extremely low birth-weight (ELBW) infants (birth weight 500 to 999 g), born in the state of Victoria over two distinct eras, 1979-80 and 1985-7, were compared. In the 1979-80 era, 25.4% of the ELBW infants survived to 2 years of age; only 12.5% of liveborn ELBW infants survived to 2 years with no neurological disabilities. In the 1979-80 era, ELBW infants born outside the level III centres in the state were significantly disadvantaged in both mortality and neurological morbidity. By 1985-7, the two year survival rate of ELBW infants rose significantly from 25.4% to 37.9%. By 1985-7, the proportion of ELBW infants who survived to 2 years free of neurological disabilities increased from 12.5% to 26.2%. Despite the improved survival, the absolute number of 2 year old children survivors with severe neurological disabilities remained constant at 8/year in both eras. By 1985-7, fewer ELBW infants were born outside the level III centres, their survival rate remained lower, but the severe neurological disability rate in survivors was no longer significantly higher. There has been a concomitant improvement in both survival and reduction in neurological morbidity. 
Comparison of accuracy of transesophageal versus transthoracic echocardiography for the detection of mitral valve prolapse with ruptured chordae tendineae (flail mitral leaflet). The accuracy of transesophageal echocardiography was compared with that of transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of ruptured chordae tendineae (flail mitral leaflet) in 27 patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) who underwent valve repair or replacement for mitral regurgitation. Confirmation of the presence of ruptured chordae resulting in a flail leaflet was available at surgery in all cases. The echocardiographic studies were read blindly by 2 independent observers with any differences resolved by a third. Mean (+/- standard deviation) age was 63 +/- 13 years. Men (n = 20) outnumbered women (n = 7) (p less than 0.02), and tended to be younger (p = 0.06). Flail leaflets were identified in 20 of 27 patients. In 1 patient, both leaflets were involved and in the remaining 19 patients posterior leaflets (15 patients) were more frequently affected than anterior leaflets (4 patients). Transesophageal echocardiography correctly identified all 20 patients with flail leaflets, but 1 false positive study occurred among the 7 patients without a flail leaflet. In contrast, transthoracic echocardiography identified only 12 of 20 patients with flail leaflets, with no false positive studies. Transesophageal echocardiography was more accurate, correctly classifying 26 of 27 (96%) cases versus 19 of 27 (70%) by the transthoracic approach (p less than 0.01). This study suggests a higher incidence of chordal rupture to the posterior leaflet in patients with MVP and demonstrates improved accuracy of transesophageal over transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of flail leaflets. 
Effect of dietary nucleotides on intestinal repair in rats with experimental chronic diarrhea. Nucleic acid synthesis in tissues of rapid growth is preferentially done using dietary purines and pyrimidines via the salvage pathway. In the case of a low protein intake, dietary nucleotides may be semiessential for cell replication of gut, lymphocytes, and bone marrow, and especially in those intestinal diseases in which the mucosa is altered, dietary nucleotides may have a role in intestinal development. The effect of dietary nucleotides on intestinal weight and length, gut mucosal weight, intestinal protein and DNA contents, and lactase, maltase, and intestinal mucosal activities was assessed in a controlled way. Weanling (21-day-old) rats were separated into two groups of 36, each receiving blindly a basal diet containing glucose polymers (C) or a basal diet with lactose as the main carbohydrate (L) for 15 days. Those fed with L developed a syndrome of chronic diarrhea and malnutrition. Ten rats of each group were sacrificed at that time. The rest of the animals of each group were separated into two subgroups. The first was fed with the C diet and the second with the C diet supplemented with 50 mg/100 g of each of the following nucleotides: AMP, GMP, CMP, UMP, and IMP (CN). Thus the subgroups CC, CN, LC, and LN were formed. Rats were sacrificed after 4 weeks and gut separated into three segments corresponding to duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. Analysis of variance was used to compare the effect of diet or segments. DNA and lactase, maltase, and sucrase activities increased in the LN group with respect to LC especially in jejunum and ileum but there were not any differences between CC and CN. 
The interpretation of dysprosody in patients with Parkinson's disease. Prosodic features in the speech production of 21 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease were tested. The appreciation of vocal and facial expression was also examined in the same patients. Significant intergroup differences were found in the prosody production tasks but, in contrast to previous results, not in the receptive tasks on the recognition and appreciation of prosody and of facial expression. The discrepancy between the production and recognition of prosodic features does not support the suggestion that dysprosody in Parkinson's disease is necessarily a disorder of processing emotional information that could be misinterpreted as a dysarthria. 
Quality of life in long-term survivors of CNS tumors of childhood and adolescence. Clinical reports of small numbers of pediatric brain tumor patients observed for brief periods suggest that long-term survivors continue to have major handicaps into adulthood. To quantify these late effects we interviewed 342 adults (or their proxies) who had CNS tumors diagnosed before the age of 20 between 1945 and 1974, survived at least 5 years, and reached 21 years of age. Survivors were 32 years old on average at follow-up. When compared with 479 matched siblings as controls. CNS tumor survivors were more likely to have died or to have become mentally incompetent sometime during the follow-up period. They were more likely to be at risk for such adverse outcomes as unemployment (odds ratio [OR], 10.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 4.6 to 25.7], to have a health condition that affected their ability to work (OR, 5.9; CI, 3.7 to 9.4), to be unable to drive (OR, 28.8; CI, 6.9 to 119.9), or to describe their current health as poor (OR, 7.8; CI, 1.7 to 35.7). Unfavorable outcomes were more frequent in male survivors than in females, in those with supratentorial tumors compared with infratentorial ones, and in those who received radiation therapy. As clinicians consider improving therapies, they should anticipate late effects, such as those we observed, and attempt to target subgroups for interventions that may improve subsequent quality of life. 
Verapamil and migraine prophylaxis: mechanisms and efficacy. Calcium channel blockers have demonstrated efficacy in investigative use for prophylaxis of migraine and cluster headaches. In particular, verapamil, with its low side-effect profile, appears to be a promising alternative to the currently available agents for prophylactic treatment of chronic recurring headaches. Although its exact mechanisms of action in this application are unknown, verapamil exerts a vasodilatory effect on cerebral arteries and interacts with serotonergic systems involved in migraine pathogenesis. A review of studies from the past decade indicates that verapamil may be as effective as traditional therapies as prophylaxis for the major types of chronic recurring headache. 
Relation of cellular drug resistance to long-term clinical outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. The clinical relevance of cellular drug resistance in children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is unknown. The relation between in-vitro sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs at initial diagnosis and long-term clinical outcome was investigated in 44 children with ALL. The short-term MTT assay was used to assess sensitivity to prednisolone, vincristine, colaspase (asparaginase), daunorubicin, and thioguanine (instead of mercaptopurine which is unstable in vitro). For vincristine and colaspase there was no difference in outcome (probability of continuous complete remission) between sensitive and resistant patients. However, the probability of continuous complete remission was significantly lower in patients with resistant cells than in those with sensitive cells for thioguanine (p less than 0.01), daunorubicin (p less than 0.02), and prednisolone (p less than 0.05). For prednisolone there was a significant worsening of the prognosis (p less than 0.05) from the extremely sensitive patients through an intermediate group to the most resistant group. The prognostic significance of cellular drug resistance was independent of white-blood-cell count, age, sex, and hepatosplenomegaly. Leukaemic cells from boys were more resistant to thioguanine than those from girls. Thus, the short-term highly efficient MTT assay can help to predict long-term response to chemotherapy in childhood ALL. 
Rationale for a primary prevention study using low-dose aspirin to prevent coronary and cerebrovascular disease in the elderly. The benefits of prophylactic aspirin therapy to prevent cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease in asymptomatic individuals remains unclear. The rationale for developing a multicentered, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to determine whether low-dose aspirin (100 mg daily) prevents cardiovascular and cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality in persons aged 70 years and over with no evidence of pre-existing cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease is described. Sample size calculations have indicated that 15,000 subjects would be required over a 4-year follow-up period in order to demonstrate a 20% reduction in overall cardiovascular mortality at the 0.01 level with a power of 0.8. Such a large-scale community-based clinical trial has never been conducted in Australia in this age group. Therefore the PACE (prevention by low-dose aspirin of cardiovascular disease in the elderly) pilot study has been developed to test recruitment strategies and methods and ascertaining disease end-points. 
Myeloablative chemoradiotherapy and autologous bone marrow infusions for treatment of neuroblastoma: factors influencing engraftment. Bone marrow harvested from cancer patients for autologous bone marrow reinfusion (ABMR) after myeloablative treatment may be injured, in both its proliferating and stromal cell pools, by either previous treatment or manipulation at the time of harvest. We have examined the relative effects of seven covariates on hematologic recovery after ABMR in children with neuroblastoma (NBL) using univariate and step-up analysis. We measured recovery by times to achieve (1) white blood cell counts greater than 1,000/microL; (2) absolute neutrophil counts greater than 500/microL; and (3) platelet counts greater than 20,000/microL without transfusion. In univariate analysis, recovery was significantly associated with the amount of prior chemotherapy and the interval between last chemotherapy and marrow harvest. Patient sex, the number of granulocyte-macrophage colonies infused, harvest-to-freeze interval, and use of purging were marginally associated. After adjusting for potential confounders in a multivariate model, the amounts of chemotherapy and granulocyte-macrophage colonies infused were independently significant predictors of time to total white blood cell count recovery; chemotherapy courses and chemo-to-harvest interval were predictors of neutrophil count recovery; and sex, use of purging, and harvest-to-freeze interval were marginal predictors of platelet recovery. The speed of hematologic recovery after ABMR seems to depend mainly on pre-existing factors and marginally on manipulation of the marrow after harvest. These factors may affect both proliferating and stromal cell pools. 
Golf for the mature athlete. Golf is a different sport from all others discussed in this issue in one important aspect: Almost all of its practitioners play more, rather than less, as they mature. A great many of them play better, too. This additional play and skill can be highly satisfying to the participants; however, it puts them at risk for a number of overuse syndromes directly caused by the motion requirements of golf. In addition, the repetitive nature of the activity can exacerbate pre-existing and age-related orthopedic pathology as well. There is no substitute for attention to the preplay aspects of golf (warm-up, flexibility, and strengthening). 
Treatment of acute cluster headache with sumatriptan. The Sumatriptan Cluster Headache Study Group BACKGROUND. Attacks of cluster headache are difficult to treat. Sumatriptan, an agonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine1-like receptors, has proved effective in the treatment of migraine. The clinical similarities between migraine and cluster headache and positive results from an open pilot study in patients with cluster headache indicated that sumatriptan should be evaluated more rigorously in the treatment of this condition. METHODS. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study to assess the efficacy and tolerability of sumatriptan in 49 patients with cluster headache. The patients received, in random order, a subcutaneous injection of 6 mg of sumatriptan for one cluster-headache attack and placebo for another attack. The results for the two attacks could be fully evaluated for 39 patients. A response to treatment was defined as complete or almost complete relief of headache (no pain or mild pain) within 15 minutes after the injection. RESULTS. In the 39 patients, the severity of headache decreased in 74 percent of the attacks within 15 minutes of treatment with sumatriptan, as compared with 26 percent of the attacks for which placebo was given (P less than 0.001). Thirty-six percent of the patients were free of pain within 10 minutes after the administration of sumatriptan, as compared with 3 percent after placebo (P less than 0.001); by 15 minutes these numbers had increased to 46 percent and 10 percent, respectively (P less than 0.001). Thirteen percent of the patients required oxygen as an additional treatment 15 minutes after receiving sumatriptan, as compared with 49 percent of those who received placebo. The severity of functional disability and the incidence of ipsilateral conjunctival injection also decreased more in response to sumatriptan than placebo. Sumatriptan was well tolerated, and there were no serious adverse events. CONCLUSIONS. Sumatriptan is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for acute attacks of cluster headache. 
An overview of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. This symposium reviewed the risk factors and problems associated with venous thromboembolism in surgical patients, especially those patients having total hip replacement. The importance of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis was emphasized by a theoretical analysis indicating that venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement not only saves lives but is also effective. A discussion of the pharmacology of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) included a review of its role, clinically and experimentally, in venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. Three of the discussants presented their favorable experiences with LMWH in reducing the incidence of venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement. It can be concluded that LMWH does reduce the incidence of venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement without causing an increase in blood loss. If its effectiveness and safety remain substantiated, LMWH may soon become the preferred agent for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. 
Sexual headaches: case report, review, and treatment with calcium blocker. A case is reported in which a patient with sexual and orgasmic headaches was treated successfully with a calcium channel blocker, diltiazem. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of successful treatment of sexual headaches with calcium channel blockers reported in the English medical literature. The literature on sexually related headaches is reviewed, and classification, evaluation, differential diagnosis, pathophysiology, differential diagnosis, and treatment of sexual headaches are discussed. 
Natural history of isolated atrial flutter in infancy. To clarify the natural history of isolated (i.e., without associated congenital cardiac anomalies) atrial flutter in infancy, we reviewed the clinical course in nine patients who were seen with this arrhythmia in the first year of life (range 1 day to 4 months). Atrial flutter was identified by the typical sawtooth pattern in leads II, III, and aVF of the surface electrocardiogram or the pattern of atrial flutter on an atrial electrogram recorded through the esophagus. The mean cycle length of the atrial flutter was 151 msec (atrial rate 397 beats/min). Six of the nine patients had other perinatal problems, such as immune and nonimmune hydrops fetalis (two patients), pneumonia (one patient), anemia (five patients), or low birth weight (one patient). In all patients the rhythm reverted to normal, either spontaneously (two patients), with overdrive pacing (four patients), or after oral digoxin therapy (three patients). No consistent temporal relationship between digoxin administration and conversion was observed; conversion was instantaneous in the four patients who received atrial overdrive pacing. Four patients were discharged receiving digoxin therapy (6 months to 1 year). One patient had supraventricular tachycardia after discharge that was controlled with digoxin. No recurrence of atrial flutter was observed among the nine patients during a mean follow-up of 6.8 years (range 0.2 to 20 years). We conclude that isolated atrial flutter in infancy is rare, has a good prognosis, may be related to transient perinatal events, and often spontaneously converts to normal sinus rhythm; however, when it does not, it will respond to transesophageal pacing. Acute and chronic digoxin therapy is probably unnecessary. 
Induced hypertension during restoration of flow after temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat: effect on neuronal injury and edema. The effect of hypertension instituted during restoration of flow after focal ischemia was studied. After the middle cerebral artery (MCA) of 12 rats was occluded for 2 hours, the ligatures were released and flow was restored for a period of 2 hours. In the control group, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was not manipulated. In the hypertensive group, the MAP was elevated by 25-30 mm Hg immediately after reestablishment of MCA patency. The area of neuronal injury, determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium staining, was significantly smaller in the hypertensive group. Specific gravity, determined by microgravimetry, did not differ between groups. The data demonstrate that modest hypertension, when induced during reperfusion after 2 hours of MCA occlusion, reduces neuronal injury and does not exacerbate edema formation. 
Introduction: physiologic adaptations to exercise training in cardiac patients: contemporary issues and concerns. This symposium dealt with contemporary issues and concerns in cardiac rehabilitation. Selected topics included: the potential of exercise training to enhance coronary collateral circulation; safety and efficacy of high intensity training; influence of beta-blocking agents on exercise prescription and trainability; value of physical conditioning in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac transplantation; and the effect of exercise on serum lipids and lipoproteins. Each article attempted to assimilate the physiologically germane literature in an area and provide the reader with associated clinical and practical implications. 
Malignant schwannoma associated with xeroderma pigmentosum in a patient belonging to complementation group D. A 43-year-old man with xeroderma pigmentosum, XP97TO, was allocated to complementation group D. He had had moderate photosensitivity at age 1 year and freckles by age 6 but no neurologic abnormalities. Nevertheless, his fibroblasts in culture had the XP-D phenotype. They showed a sevenfold hypersensitivity to killing by 254 nm ultraviolet radiation and a diminished level (29%) of unscheduled DNA synthesis. Phototesting revealed delayed maximum erythema at 72 hours after UVB exposure and a lowered minimal erythema dose. Lentigo maligna developed on the patient's face, and a rapidly growing malignant schwannoma was found on the left trigeminal nerve. This may be the first case of a peripheral nervous tissue neoplasm in xeroderma pigmentosum. 
Symptomatic Chiari malformation in adults: a new classification based on magnetic resonance imaging with clinical and prognostic significance. Thirty-five consecutive adults with Chiari malformation and progressive symptoms underwent surgical treatment at a single institution over a 3-year period. All patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging scan before and after surgery. Images of the craniovertebral junction confirmed tonsillar herniation in all cases and allowed the definition of two anatomically distinct categories of the Chiari malformation in this age group. Twenty of the 35 patients had concomitant syringomyelia and were classified as Type A. The remaining 15 patients had evidence of frank herniation of the brain stem below the foramen magnum without evidence of syringomyelia and were labeled Type B. Type A patients had a predominant central cord symptomatology; Type B patients exhibited signs and symptoms of brain stem or cerebellar compression. The principal surgical procedure consisted of decompression of the foramen magnum, opening of the fourth ventricular outlet, and plugging of the obex. Significant improvement in preoperative symptoms and signs was observed in 9 of the 20 patients (45%) with syringomyelia (Type A), as compared to 13 of the 15 patients (87%) without syringomyelia (Type B). Postoperative reduction in syrinx volume was observed in 11 of the 20 patients with syringomyelia, including all 9 patients with excellent results. Magnetic resonance imaging has allowed a classification of the adult Chiari malformation in adults based on objective anatomic criteria, with clinical and prognostic relevance. The presence of syringomyelia implies a less favorable response to surgical intervention. 
Combination thrombolytic therapy: a comparison of simultaneous and sequential regimens of tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase. Coronary angioplasty following unsuccessful tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) therapy for acute myocardial infarction has been associated with a high incidence of subsequent reocclusion of the infarct-related artery, and a relatively high in-hospital mortality. In contrast, the combination of t-PA and urokinase, when given intravenously prior to coronary angiography, appears to be associated with a low incidence of post-rescue angioplasty reocclusion. In order to determine whether intraprocedural urokinase, given at the time of rescue coronary angioplasty for failed t-PA therapy, improves long-term patency of the infarct vessel to the same extent as preangiographic, combination t-PA/urokinase therapy, three thrombolytic treatment strategies were retrospectively compared. The first group included 86 patients undergoing rescue angioplasty after t-PA monotherapy (t-PA alone). The clinical and angiographic outcomes of these patients were compared with those of 24 patients who received intravenous or intracoronary urokinase during rescue angioplasty following unsuccessful t-PA therapy (sequential t-PA/urokinase therapy), and with those of 34 patients undergoing rescue coronary angioplasty following unsuccessful therapy with the combination of intravenous t-PA and urokinase (simultaneous therapy). There was no difference in postangioplasty patency rate of the infarct-related artery between the three groups. However, the sequential t-PA/urokinase regimen was associated with a subsequent reocclusion rate that was lower than the rate that occurred in the t-PA monotherapy group but higher than the rate in the simultaneous t-PA/urokinase group (13 versus 29 versus 2%, respectively; p = 0.003). 
Atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli in stroke patients. In 539 consecutive stroke patients admitted to a rehabilitation department, we studied the possible role of atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism by analyzing a series of relevant clinical data in patients with and without atrial fibrillation and in patients with and without venous thromboembolic complications. Deep venous thrombosis as well as advanced age and cardiac disease were significantly (p less than 0.001) more frequent in patients with atrial fibrillation. However, in a model of simultaneous logistic regression carried out on the presence of absence of venous thromboembolic complications, atrial fibrillation was the only significant risk factor. In view of the morbidity and mortality linked to deep venous thrombosis, our findings argue for preventive anticoagulation therapy in stroke patients suffering from atrial fibrillation and merit further study. 
Large mediastinal mass secondary to an aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass graft aneurysm. A case of a 62-year-old man with a large mediastinal mass who had undergone aortocoronary bypass grafting 17 years earlier is presented. Computed tomography showed a 13-cm extrinsic cystic mass believed to represent a pericardial cyst or teratoma. Intraoperatively, the patient was noted to have an aneurysm of his right coronary artery bypass graft. We were able to find 4 other cases seen in this manner. 
Replacement of cholesterol gallstones by murideoxycholyl taurine gallstones in prairie dogs fed murideoxycholic acid. The effect of two hydrophilic bile acids, murideoxycholic acid (3 alpha,6 beta-dihydroxy-5 beta-cholanoic acid) and ursodeoxycholic acid, on cholesterol and bile acid metabolism and hepatic pathology and gallstone composition was studied in the prairie dog. Cholesterol gallstones were induced by feeding a diet containing 1.2% cholesterol for 75 days. The animals were divided into six groups, and gallstone regression was studied as follows: groups 2 and 5, chow plus 0.2% cholesterol; groups 3 and 6, chow plus 0.2% cholesterol plus 0.15% ursodeoxycholic acid; groups 4 and 7, chow plus 0.2% cholesterol plus 0.15% murideoxycholic acid. Animals in groups 2 to 4 were killed after an additional 6 wk; animals in groups 5 to 7 were killed after an additional 12 wk. Gallstone dissolution did not occur in any group. The gallstones in groups 2, 3, 5 and 6 were typical cholesterol aggregates, as determined by polarized light microscopy and Fourier transform infrared spectrometry. The gallstones of the murideoxycholic acid group were large, solitary, dark stones that appeared radiopaque under 22 kVp x-ray examination. Scanning electron microscopy showed that in these stones the cholesterol crystals had been replaced by an amorphous material, both within the stone and on the stone surface. Chemical analysis indicated that at the end of 12 wk the calcium/sodium salt of the taurine conjugate of murideoxycholic acid (murideoxycholyl taurine) comprised 70% of the stones; protein, cholesterol and small amounts of other bile salts were also present. In vitro studies confirmed the insolubility of the sodium and calcium salts of murideoxycholyl taurine. These studies indicate that the hydrophilic bile acids, murideoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid, did not achieve gallstone dissolution under the conditions used. In the animals fed murideoxycholic acid, an insoluble calcium salt of murideoxycholyl taurine replaced cholesterol as the major constituent of gallbladder stones. This is the first example of an insoluble dihydroxy taurine-conjugated bile acid; administration of the unconjugated bile acid induced precipitation of a kind of gallstone not previously reported. The final result was transformation of cholesterol stones to bile salt stones. 
Functional evaluation following microvascular oromandibular reconstruction of the oral cancer patient: a comparative study of reconstructed and nonreconstructed patients. Over the past decade, the use of free flap transfers in head and neck surgery has led to remarkable advances in the reliability and the ultimate results of oromandibular reconstruction. Stable and retentive dental restorations have been achieved using enosseous implants placed directly into the vascularized bone flaps. However, the functional assessment of patients who underwent primary mandibular reconstruction with these techniques has not been previously reported. A group of 10 reconstructed and 10 nonreconstructed segmental hemimandibulectomy patients were compared using a battery of tests to assess their overall well-being, cosmesis, deglutition, oral competence, speech, length of hospitalization, and dental rehabilitation. In addition, objective measures of the masticatory apparatus (interincisal opening, bite force, chewing performance, and chewing stroke) were used to compare these two groups as well as normal healthy subjects and edentulous patients restored with conventional and implant-borne dentures. The results show a clear advantage for the reconstructed patients in almost all categories. Persistent problems and future directions in oromandibular reconstruction are discussed. 
In vitro study of the interaction of doxorubicin, thiotepa, and mitomycin-C, agents used for intravesical chemotherapy of superficial bladder cancer. Several cytotoxic agents have been identified as effective in the treatment of superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, including doxorubicin, thiotepa and mitomycin-C. An in vitro study was conducted to assess the interactions of these three drugs against a well differentiated human bladder tumor cell line, RT-4, to identify and evaluate synergistic combinations among these agents. Cytotoxicity was evaluated by a colorimetric assay based on the capacity of viable cells to metabolize a tetrazolium dye, MTT, to produce a colored formazan product. The analyses of drug interactions were done by the isobolographic method (construction of isoeffect plots). The combination of doxorubicin and thiotepa was found to be the most synergistic, followed by the combination of doxorubicin and mitomycin-C. The combination of mitomycin C and thiotepa demonstrated an unpredictable effect. These findings suggest the combination of doxorubicin and thiotepa has potential advantage for chemotherapy of superficial bladder tumors. 
Is fetal cellular rhabdomyoma an entity or a differentiated rhabdomyosarcoma? A study of patients with rhabdomyoma of the tongue and sarcoma of the tongue enrolled in the intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma studies I, II, and III. A tumor of the tongue with features consistent with the diagnosis of fetal cellular rhabdomyoma was seen in an 18-month-old infant. The tumor recurred 10 and 22 months after initial resection. The histologic condition of the first recurrence was similar to the original tumor except for some increased nuclear irregularities and mitotic activity. No adjunctive therapy was administered initially or after the first recurrence. The second recurrence showed mixed embryonal/alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. This case represented a unique model of a highly differentiated striated muscle tumor converting to a moderately differentiated rhabdomyosarcoma, and illustrated differential diagnostic difficulties in distinguishing between fetal cellular rhabdomyoma and differentiated rhabdomyosarcoma. The patient was compared with eight children and adolescents with primary sarcomas of the tongue who entered the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Studies (IRS) I, II, and III protocols. The tumors of all eight arose at the base of the tongue. There were five embryonal, one alveolar, and one mixed embryonal/alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas, and one undifferentiated myxoid sarcoma. Five rhabdomyosarcomas were poorly differentiated, and two had a moderate degree of myogenesis. These sarcomas of the tongue represent approximately 0.34% of all cases entered in IRS studies. 
Allograft prosthetic composite arthroplasty for osteosarcoma and other aggressive bone tumors. Allograft prosthetic composite arthroplasty is a reconstruction alternative after limb salvage for aggressive bone tumors. It combines an off-the-shelf implant with a fresh-frozen allograft and has several potential advantages over conventional techniques. Good clinical results can be achieved with acceptable morbidity. The procedure can be performed successfully even in patients receiving chemotherapy. Nonunion was the most common complication encountered but was amenable to autogenous iliac bone graft. The procedure can be customized to meet the needs of the patient, making custom implant manufacturing delay and expense unnecessary. 
Group C streptococcal bacteremia: analysis of 88 cases. Eighty-eight cases of group C streptococcal bacteremia were reviewed retrospectively. Most patients had underlying diseases (72.7%), predominantly cardiovascular disease (20.5%) or malignancy (20.5%). The infection originated most often from the upper respiratory tract (20.5%), the gastrointestinal tract (18.2%), or the skin (17.1%). Prior exposure to animals or animal products was reported in 23.9% of cases. The most common clinical manifestations of group C streptococcal bacteremia were endocarditis (27.3%), primary bacteremia (22.7%), and meningitis (10.2%). Of streptococcal isolates, 61.4% were not speciated, 19.3% were Streptococcus equisimilis, 17.1% were Streptococcus zooepidemicus, and two (2.3%) were Streptococcus equi. The isolates were sensitive to most antibiotics, and most patients were treated with beta-lactam agents. Mortality was high (25.0%), especially among older patients and patients with endocarditis, meningitis, and disseminated infection. Group C streptococcal bacteremia does not differ from bloodstream infection caused by other beta-hemolytic streptococci with regard to clinical presentation, treatment, or outcome. 
Thermal laser-assisted balloon angioplasty of the superficial femoral artery: a multicenter review of 602 cases. A multicenter review of 602 procedures was performed to evaluate the effects of thermal laser-assisted balloon angioplasty on the superficial femoral artery. Four hundred thirty-nine (73%) patients underwent laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for claudication, and 163 (27%) underwent the procedure for limb salvage. Two hundred ninety-two laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures were performed for multifocal stenotic disease (greater than 80%) diameter reduction), 258 for total occlusion, and 52 procedures for both superficial femoral artery stenosis and occlusion. The initial recanalization rate was 89% (538/602) depending on the length of the lesion. Success of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty was verified by angioscopy or arteriography, and all patients underwent segmental Doppler studies before discharge and during midterm follow-up extending to 30 months (mean, 11.3 months). Complications occurred in 62 (10%) patients, but only one limb amputation occurred because of a complication related to a laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. Overall, 60% of initially successful procedures have remained patent, but long segment (greater than 7 cm) occlusions have fared poorly (25% patency at 30 months). This minimally invasive technology affords the opportunity to treat short segment (less than 7 cm) symptomatic superficial femoral artery occlusive disease with minimal risk. Initial success and midterm patency rates for appropriate lesions appear to make laser-assisted balloon angioplasty a viable adjunct in the treatment of superficial femoral artery occlusive disease. 
Acute hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors induced by interleukin-1 alpha: effects independent of tumor necrosis factor. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a protein synthesized in response to the endotoxin bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), is the classical mediator of acute hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors. We have demonstrated that interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), with a spectrum of activities very similar to those of TNF, also causes acute hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors. Both TNF and IL-1 induce a cascade of events including the synthesis or release of each other. The present studies were thus undertaken to determine whether the hemorrhagic necrosis induced in tumors by IL-1 alpha is due to TNF. Kinetic parameters of IL-1 alpha-induced hemorrhage were similar to those observed with recombinant murine TNF-alpha (TNF-alpha) or LPS in RIF-1 fibrosarcomas in C3H/HeN (endotoxin-sensitive) mice. However, the amount of TNF found in the sera or tumors of animals treated with LPS was more than 20-fold higher than in mice treated with IL-1 alpha, and LPS induced similar degrees of hemorrhagic necrosis, which was measured by determining the packed volume of red blood cells by 59Fe labeling. A low but significantly hemorrhagic dose of IL-1 alpha induced no detectable TNF in tumors. Pretreatment with 250 micrograms of neutralizing antibody to TNF had no effect on IL-1 alpha-induced hemorrhage, whereas TNF-alpha- and LPS-induced hemorrhagic effects were significantly reduced. These results demonstrate an important antitumor activity of IL-1 alpha that appears to be independent of TNF. 
Estrogen and progesterone binding by acoustic neuroma tissue. Tissue samples from 37 acoustic neuromas were assayed for estrogen and progesterone hormone receptor binding by radioimmunoassay using a dextran-coated charcoal method and Scatchard plot analysis. Twenty-one of the samples were from men, and 16 of the samples were from women. Seven of 37 samples (19%) were positive for estrogen receptor and six of 36 samples (17%) were positive for progesterone receptor. Three of 37 samples (8%) were positive for both receptors. There was no correlation of estrogen receptor positivity with the sex of the patient. These results indicate that estrogen or progesterone receptor binding activity or both are present in a small subset of acoustic tumors. Evidence is lacking, however, that binding of estrogen to the receptor results in growth changes in the tumor. The empirical use of antiestrogen treatment in acoustic neuroma does not appear to be justified at the present time. 
Nontraumatic surgical emergencies in children. Clinical conditions that require operative intervention are frequent causes of emergency department visits. Common causes such as pyloric stenosis, intussusception, inguinal hernias, torsion of the testicle, and ingested foreign bodies are discussed, and aids in diagnosis and early intervention are addressed. Conditions that mimic surgical problems also are mentioned. 
Otorhinolaryngologic causes of headache. Pain around the face and neck is common. This pain may be referred from a different area. Because patients usually present with pain and discomfort in a specific location such as the ear, nose, face, throat, or neck, this article discusses separately the innervation of each region and the most frequent causes of pain in each of these areas. 
Changes in the characteristics of myocardial infarction patients: 1980 vs 1988. This study examined myocardial infarction cases in an urban community hospital in the years 1980 and 1988. There were 56 well-documented heart attacks in 1980, and 80 in 1988. The sex ratio changed from 43/13 (male/female) in 1980 to 34/46 in 1988 (p = .0001). The percentage of diabetics increased from 27% in 1980 to 44% in 1988 (p = .044). The diabetics were older on average than the nondiabetics (69.7 years vs 65.1 years, p = .017). During the two years, 30 patients died in the hospital. Those who died were, on average, older than the survivors (71.4 years vs 65.4 years, p = .012) and were more likely to be white than black. More women than men died in 1988 (12 out of 13, p = .014), but the overall effect of sex on survival for both years was not significant. These results demonstrate a substantial change in the demographics of myocardial infarctions in the last decade. 
Prognostic significance of the proportion of Ki-67-positive cells in adult T-cell leukemia. The authors examined peripheral blood samples from patients with adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) using the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 which detects a nuclear antigen present in actively proliferating cells. In patients with chronic ATL, the percentage of Ki-67-positive cells was significantly lower than in acute ATL patients (median values, 3.3% versus 18.9%, P less than 0.001). Furthermore, there was a significant inverse correlation between the percentage of Ki-67-positive cells and the length of survival (P less than 0.001). Serum lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) levels also showed a significant inverse correlation with survival, but this was less strong than that for Ki-67 (0.01 less than P less than 0.02). Thus, Ki-67 positivity appears to indicate the aggressiveness of ATL, and can possibly be used for the clinical classification of ATL patients as well as for the prediction of prognosis. 
Serum levels of Hyskon during hysteroscopic procedures. Hyskon hysteroscopy fluid is used with the hysteroscope as an aid in distending the uterine cavity and in visualizing its surfaces. We correlated the amount of Hyskon used during hysteroscopy with both the instillation pressures generated within the uterine cavity and with serum levels of Hyskon in 11 healthy subjects. Serum levels in excess of 1000 mg% were measured at 30 min when an amount of Hyskon greater than 300 mL was used. Intrauterine Hyskon absorption and/or injection during hysteroscopy were found even after volumes of Hyskon as small as 50-100 mL were used. Serum levels were significantly higher with the larger amounts of Hyskon used in ablative procedures (P less than 0.01), as compared with serum levels seen with the smaller amounts of Hyskon used for diagnostic procedures. The injection pressures should be low to minimize the amount of intravascular injection. In cases in which extensive ablative procedures are necessary, we suggest that a two-stage procedure be considered. Because of the hypertonicity of Hyskon, intravascular volume expansion that may be larger than that seen during transurethral prostatectomy occurs. 
Sarcomas of soft tissue and bone. Sarcomas arise primarily from mesenchymal structures at any site in the body, even within visceral stroma and neurovascular bundles. Sarcomas have been associated with prior radiation therapy, toxic exposures, and genetic conditions and soft tissue sarcomas have been distinguished from bone sarcomas. For localized soft tissue sarcoma, tumor grade is the most important prognostic variable. Low-grade tumors are generally cured by wide surgical excision, but there is a significant rate of both local recurrence and development of distant metastasis in high-grade lesions. The treatment of soft tissue sarcoma histologic subtypes is generally similar grade-for-grade, with the exception of rhabomyosarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, and mesothelioma. Tumor location strongly influences resectability. Radiation therapy has been used successfully in conjunction with conservative surgery to improve local control rates for soft tissue sarcomas, particularly in extremity lesions. Currently, adjuvant chemotherapy remains unproven for most adult soft tissue sarcomas, but is established in the treatment of rhabdomyosarcomas, osteosarcomas, and Ewing's sarcomas. 
Objective antitumor activity of acivicin in patients with recurrent CNS malignancies: a Southwest Oncology Group trial. Acivicin (AT-125) is a glutamine antagonist with dose-limiting, schedule-dependent CNS toxicity and predictable CSF penetration after intravenous administration. Because of these properties, a trial in CNS malignancies was initiated. Thirty-two patients with recurrent or residual malignant astrocytomas were treated with AT-125. The majority of patients had glioblastoma multiforme (24) and had received prior nitrosoureas (21). The median age was 50 years, and Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) performance status was 2. The major determinant of response was based upon radiologic criteria using computed tomographic (CT) scanning and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. The tumor mass was measured in two perpendicular planes, which yielded the largest cross-sectional area. Standard solid tumor criteria for response were used. All responding patients also had a stable or tapered dose of corticosteroids with stable or improved performance status and neurologic examination. There were four objective responses (12%): one complete remission (3 1/2+ years) and three partial remissions (57, 86, and 322 days). Two patients had improvement in disease that did not meet requirements for a partial remission. Toxicity was mild and primarily consisted of nausea, vomiting, and lethargy. Two patients were removed from study due to neurotoxicity (depression and hallucinations). The strict response criteria used in this trial were not those that have been used in testing other active agents such as carmustine (BCNU). We conclude that AT-125 has objective antitumor activity in malignant astrocytomas and warrants further study. 
Irresectable hepatoma treated by intrahepatic iodized oil doxorubicin hydrochloride: initial results. In this study we describe the investigation and treatment of 14 patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma. Patients were treated with intra-arterial infusion of iodized oil and doxorubicin hydrochloride. Five of these patients were alive after 1 year. Twelve patients showed a fall in alpha-fetoprotein, and in seven of these patients, the fall in alpha-fetoprotein was greater than 50%. 
Eye movement behaviour of patients with cerebral microangiopathy and macroangiopathy in simple visual detection tasks. Patients with cerebral microangiopathy (n = 17), acute and chronic left hemisphere (LH) stroke (n = 18, n = 21) and normal controls (n = 41) were studied in 2 simple visual detection tasks, one with predictable, the other with unpredictable targets. Eye movements were registered by means of infrared light reflections (pupil-corneal reflection method); the points of visual fixation were continuously calculated by a microprocessor system. Patients with cerebral microangiopathy showed primarily difficulties in holding attention, as reflected by pathologically short durations of gaze on target, frequent unsuccessful anticipations and a high overall number of fixations. In contrast, acute LH stroke patients were characterized by a deficit in shifting attention, as reflected by prolonged latencies and long search durations due to many intervening search fixations. By means of a nonparametric discriminant analysis procedure, about 90% of patients with microangiopathy and about 80% of acute LH stroke patients were reliably distinguished from normal controls. The differences between these two patient groups were most pronounced in the simpler task with predictable targets. Among those patients discriminated from normals, about 96% were correctly reclassified as belonging either to the microangiopathy or to the acute LH stroke group on the basis of their abnormal eye movement variables alone. 
Endogenous prostaglandin endoperoxides and prostacyclin modulate the thrombolytic activity of tissue plasminogen activator. Effects of simultaneous inhibition of thromboxane A2 synthase and blockade of thromboxane A2/prostaglandin H2 receptors in a canine model of coronary thrombosis. We tested the hypothesis that simultaneous inhibition of TxA2 synthase and blockade of TxA2/PHG2 receptors is more effective in enhancing thrombolysis and preventing reocclusion after discontinuation of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) than either intervention alone. Coronary thrombosis was induced in 35 dogs by placing a copper coil into the left anterior descending coronary artery. Coronary flow was measured with a Doppler flow probe. 30 min after thrombus formation, the animals received saline (controls, n = 10); SQ 29548 (0.4 mg/kg bolus + 0.4 mg/kg per h infusion), a TxA2/PGH2 receptor antagonist (n = 8); dazoxiben (5 mg/kg bolus + 5 mg/kg per h infusion), a TxA2 synthase inhibitor (n = 9); or R 68070 (5 mg/kg bolus + 5 mg/kg per h infusion), a drug that blocks TxA2/PGH2 receptors and inhibits TxA2 synthase (n = 8). Then, all dogs received heparin (200 U/kg) and a bolus of t-PA (80 micrograms/kg) followed by a continuous infusion (8 micrograms/kg per min) for up to 90 min or until reperfusion was achieved. The time to thrombolysis did not change significantly in SQ 29548-treated dogs as compared with controls (42 +/- 5 vs. 56 +/- 7 min, respectively, P = NS), but it was significantly shortened by R 68070 and dazoxiben (11 +/- 2 and 25 +/- 6 min, respectively, P less than 0.001 vs. controls and SQ 29548-treated dogs). R 68070 administration resulted in a lysis time significantly shorter than that observed in the dazoxiben-treated group (P less than 0.01). Reocclusion was observed in eight of eight control dogs, five of seven SQ 29548-treated dogs, seven of nine dazoxiben-treated dogs, and zero of eight R 68070-treated animals (P less than 0.001). TxB2 and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, measured in blood samples obtained from the coronary artery distal to the thrombus, were significantly increased at reperfusion and at reocclusion in control animals and in dogs receiving SQ 29548. R 68070 and dazoxiben prevented the increase in plasma TxB2 levels, whereas 6-keto-PGF1 alpha levels were significantly increased with respect to control and SQ 29548-treated dogs. Thus, simultaneous inhibition of TxA2 synthase and blockade of TxA2/PGH2 receptors is more effective than either intervention alone in this experimental model in enhancing thrombolysis and preventing reocclusion after t-PA administration. 
Systemic hypertension alters vasomotor function in experimental vein grafts. Hypertension is an established risk factor for atherosclerosis, a disease that is important in the pathophysiology of vein graft failure. Hypertension can also alter arterial vasoreactivity. The vasomotor function and histologic characteristics of autogenous vein grafts in hypertensive rabbits were assessed in this study. Hypertension was induced in 13 male New Zealand white rabbits by use of the Goldblatt one clip two kidney method. The right carotid artery was divided and bypassed with the reversed right external jugular vein 7 days later in these animals and in 13 normotensive controls. Blood pressure and renal function were assessed serially, and all the grafts were harvested after 28 days. Three grafts in each group were examined by light microscopy. The responses of the remaining grafts to norepinephrine, histamine, serotonin, and angiotensin II were determined in vitro under isometric tension. Endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine and calcium ionophore (A23187) was assessed in precontracted grafts. The mean arterial pressure was significantly increased after the Goldblatt procedure was performed. Intimal hyperplasia was observed in both groups, but the grafts in the hypertensive groups showed increased adventitial and medial fibrosis and a reduced number of vasa vasora. The grafts in the hypertensive rabbits were hypersensitive to all agonists as indicated by a significant reduction in their median effective dose values, and their maximal responses to all agonists were also significantly reduced. No graft relaxed in response to acetylcholine, and whereas precontracted grafts in normotensive rabbits had a maximal relaxation of 24% +/- 6% of precontraction with A23187, this was absent in the grafts in the hypertensive rabbits. The results suggest that angiotensin-induced hypertension may adversely affect vein graft patency by inducing hypersensitivity to physiologically important agonists and reducing the effect of receptor-independent endothelium-derived relaxation on vasomotor tone. 
Early experience with low speed rotational angioplasty. OBJECTIVE--Preliminary assessment of the efficacy and safety of the low speed rotational angioplasty catheter system (ROTACS). DESIGN--Open prospective trial. SETTING--Department of cardiology in a teaching hospital. PATIENTS--Eleven patients (10 with chronic stable angina and one with acute coronary occlusion after conventional angioplasty) in whom a coronary angiogram showed occlusion or critical stenosis of the coronary artery (right in seven patients, circumflex in two, and left anterior descending in two). The nature or severity of the lesion ruled out conventional coronary angioplasty. INTERVENTIONS--An attempt was made to cross the lesion with a rotating guide wire with a blunt swelling at its tip. Where necessary progress was assessed by simultaneous injection of contrast into both main coronary arteries. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Progress of the ROTACS through the lesion that allowed a guide wire to pass into the distal vessel was regarded as a device specific success. When a guide wire crossed the lesion aided only by the support of the ROTACS without the use of rotation this was counted as a success that was not device specific. Failure to cross the lesion and any associated complications were noted. RESULTS--The ROTACS crossed only two of the 10 chronic lesions (20% device specific success rate); however, the support it provided enabled a guide wire to cross a further two lesions and allowed subsequent successful angioplasty in four of the 10 patients. One of these four patients presented after five months with recurrent angina requiring bypass grafting. The other three were symptom free at follow up seven months after the procedure. In the one patient with acute coronary occlusion the ROTACS was advanced over the guide wire to allow passage of an angioplasty balloon where this had previously proved impossible. An excellent final result was obtained and this patient remains symptom free. Three of the six patients in whom the ROTACS was unsuccessful had coronary artery dissection without sequelae. Three patients required subsequent elective coronary bypass grafting for control of symptoms while the other three remain well on medical treatment. CONCLUSIONS--The ROTACS may extend the range of patients with coronary artery occlusion or critical stenosis who can be treated non-surgically. The low device specific success rate (20%) achieved in this study indicates that it should be compared with other simpler mechanical devices that may be just as effective. 
Management of infected aortoiliac aneurysms. A 30-year retrospective review identified 13 patients treated for infected aneurysms of the abdominal aorta or iliac arteries, for an overall incidence of 0.65%. A constellation of clinical findings led to the correct preoperative diagnosis in 11 (85%) of 13 patients. Treatment methods included resection and in situ replacement grafting in seven patients, resection and extra-anatomic bypass in five patients, and resection-ligation in one patient. Four (31%) of 13 patients died within 30 days of operation, three of whom died of rupture. Overall, good results were achieved in five patients (38%), while poor results were noted in the remaining eight patients (62%). The determinants of outcome were aneurysm location or rupture, the presence of established infection, and the virulence of the infecting organism. In 10 (77%) of the 13 aneurysms, Salmonella species, Bacteroides fragilis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa accounted for all deaths, ruptures, and suprarenal aneurysm infections. These data suggest that patients with primary infections of the abdominal aorta or iliac arteries continue to present with advanced infections or aneurysm rupture that result in a high mortality. 
Takayasu's disease and atherosclerosis. The aortic arch syndrome characterised by diminished or absent pulses in the arteries arising from the aortic arch has many etiologies, such as syphilitic aortitis, dissection of the aorta, atherosclerosis and Takayasu's arteritis. The diagnostic criteria of Takayasu's arteritis often do not mention histological investigations. We observed a case of an aortic arch syndrome, presenting as a classical case of Takayasu's arteritis but caused by a severe form of atherosclerosis. 
Marginal ulcer following gastric bypass for morbid obesity. Four hundred twelve patients underwent gastric bypass for treatment of morbid obesity between 1981 and 1985 at the University of Florida Affiliated Hospitals. Thirty-four patients (8.2%) developed marginal ulcers, considerably higher than the 0-3 per cent ulcer occurrence commonly reported in the literature. Factors predisposing to ulcer formation include: (1) a large gastric pouch; (2) a vertically oriented pouch; and (3) staple-line dehiscence. Twenty-two of 34 patients (65%) with symptomatic marginal ulcers were noted to have staple-line disruption. Twenty-one of these patients (95%) eventually required operative therapy for their ulcers compared with four of 12 patients (33%) with an intact gastric staple line. Surgical therapy consisted of takedown of the Roux-en-Y limb with resection of the ulcer and gastrogastrostomy. Staple-line dehiscence is a significant etiologic factor in the development of marginal ulcer following gastric bypass and when present constitutes an indication for reoperation. 
Valve extension with glutaraldehyde-preserved autologous pericardium. Results in mitral valve repair. Preliminary experimental studies in our laboratory have shown that autologous pericardium treated with glutaraldehyde prevents late deterioration and calcification of the tissue. For this reason, glutaraldehyde-treated autologous pericardium has been used in a series of 64 patients who underwent operations for leaflet extension of the mitral valve between 1980 and 1989. Ages ranged from 2.5 to 60 years (mean 19 +/- 15). The causes of mitral valve insufficiency were rheumatic fever (69%), bacterial endocarditis (17%), congenital (8%), endomyocardial fibrosis (4.5%), and trauma (1.5%). The autologous tissue was fixed in a 0.62% glutaraldehyde solution for 15 minutes and rinsed in saline for an additional 15 minutes. Patching techniques varied depending on the site and the extent of the lesion. Associated mitral valve repair techniques (Carpentier's techniques) were mandatory in all patients. The period of follow-up extended from 6 months to 9 years (mean 3.1 +/- 2.5 years). There were no operative deaths in this series, and there was one late death (2%). In the six patients (12%) who underwent reoperation, there has been no case of calcification of the pericardial patch. Postoperative mitral valve function was assessed by bidimensional color Doppler echocardiographic techniques. Mitral valve insufficiency was trivial or absent in 80% of the patients. This experience permits us to conclude that leaflet extension is a simple and safe technique in valve reconstruction, allowing repair of mitral valves that otherwise would need to be replaced. It permits use of an adult-size prosthetic ring in children. Glutaraldehyde-treated autologous pericardium is the material of choice for this type of repair. 
Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis fails to prevent gallbladder mucin hypersecretion in the cholesterol-fed prairie dog Gallstone formation in the cholesterol-fed prairie dog is preceded by an increase in mucin secretion by the gallbladder epithelium, and mucin hypersecretion is believed to promote cholesterol gallstone formation by accelerating the nucleation of cholesterol monohydrate crystals. Some studies have suggested that gallbladder mucin hypersecretion is mediated by increases in gallbladder prostaglandin synthesis, but other observations are difficult to reconcile with this view. An organ culture technique was used to measure mucin secretion in normal prairie dog gallbladder in response to exogenous prostaglandins and agents that increased or decreased endogenous prostaglandin production. Incubation with indomethacin produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of endogenous prostaglandin synthesis with virtually complete inhibition at 10(-5) mol/L indomethacin. However, indomethacin had no effect on gallbladder mucin secretion at concentrations as high as 10(-5) mol/L, and significant inhibition of mucin secretion was only found at 10(-4) mol/L indomethacin, a concentration that also produced a significant increase in lactate dehydrogenase release from cultured explants. Incubation of gallbladder explants with the calcium ionophore A23187 significantly stimulated endogenous prostaglandin synthesis in a concentration-dependent manner, increasing synthesis of prostaglandins E and F to as much as 278% +/- 20% and 335% +/- 21% of basal values, respectively; however, the same concentrations of A23187 did not stimulate mucin secretion. Incubation of gallbladder explants in the presence of exogenous prostaglandin E2 or prostaglandin F2a in concentrations as high as 10(-6) mol/L also did not stimulate mucin secretion. Prairie dogs fed a lithogenic 1.2% cholesterol diet showed a significant increase in gallbladder mucin secretion after 1 week (117.5 +/- 10.2% of control, P less than 0.05), and 4 of 5 had formed cholesterol monohydrate crystals after 3 weeks. Long-term treatment with indomethacin, 1.2 mg.kg-1.day-1, failed to inhibit gallbladder mucin hypersecretion (129.2 +/- 10.7% of control after 1 week) or cholesterol monohydrate crystal formation (3/5) in cholesterol-fed prairie dogs. Furthermore, incubation of explants with 10(-5) mol/L indomethacin failed to prevent in vitro mucin hypersecretion in cholesterol-fed animals. These findings suggest that prostaglandins do not regulate gallbladder mucin secretion in the prairie dog, and it is unlikely that increases in gallbladder prostaglandin synthesis are responsible for mediating gallbladder mucin hypersecretion during cholelithiasis in the prairie dog. 
Types of posterior capsular breaks and their surgical implications. We studied the pathogenesis, clinical features, and management of posterior capsular breaks in 28 cataract patients during planned extracapsular cataract extraction and intraocular lens implantation surgery. In the age-related cataract group (17 cases), the posterior capsular breaks were fresh, caused by the irrigation-aspiration cannula. Located in the upper part of the posterior capsule, they had thin margins and tended to enlarge with continued irrigation. Nine (52.9%) of these breaks could be plugged with viscoelastic, and after dry aspiration, a posterior chamber lens was implanted successfully. Posterior capsular breaks in traumatic cataracts (11 cases) were preexisting but were detected only during surgery. Centrally located, they had thick fibrosed margins and remained the same size during irrigation- aspiration. The minimal vitreous herniation seen in four (35.3%) of these cases was managed by automated partial anterior vitrectomy through the break. A posterior chamber intraocular lens was implanted in all these cases. 
The protective role of eicosapentaenoic acid [EPA] in the pathogenesis of nephrolithiasis. The low incidence of atherosclerosis and other degenerative diseases including stone disease in the Greenland Eskimo has been attributed to their high consumption of oily fish with its high concentration of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Man cannot synthesis EPA from the precursor essential fatty acid, linolenic acid, and can only assimilate preformed EPA present in fish and fish oil, to bring about a change in the pathway of eicosanoid metabolism from the n-6 to the n-3 series. With a westernised diet the oxygenated products of renal prostaglandin synthesis are metabolites of the n-6 series and these are known to play an important role in several pathophysiological states including stone disease. Our previous studies have shown a relationship between prostaglandin activity and urinary calcium excretion and it would seem that the initiating factor/s for stone formation trigger the mechanisms for prostaglandin synthesis resulting in the biochemical abnormalities associated with stone disease. The Eskimo may be protected from these events by possession of an eicosanoid metabolism that follows an n-3 pathway. To test this hypothesis experiments were performed using an animal model of nephrocalcinosis. The animals were divided into three groups; one group was given an intra-peritoneal injection of 10% calcium gluconate daily for 10 days to induce nephrocalcinosis; a second group was fed MaxEPA fish oil before and during the calcium gluconate injections and a third group only received an intra-peritoneal injection of N saline. A group of 12 recurrent, hypercalciuric/hyperoxaluric stone-formers were treated with fish oil for eight weeks to study the effects on solute excretion. Nephrocalcinosis, which was readily produced in the control animals, was prevented in the experimental animals by pre-treatment with fish oil and urine calcium excretion was significantly reduced. The urinary calcium and oxalate excretion in the recurrent, hypercalciuric stone-formers was significantly reduced with fish oil treatment over an eight week period. There were no untoward side-effects. These studies indicate that the incorporation of EPA in the diet as a substitute metabolic pathway could be a unique way of correcting the biochemical abnormalities of idiopathic urolithiasis. 
Acute atherosis in pregnancies complicated by hypertension, small-for-gestational-age infants, and diabetes mellitus. A clinicohistologic study of acute atherosis in late complicated pregnancy was undertaken. Maternal vessels in the placental basal plate, underlying the amniochorial membranes and in placental bed biopsy specimens, were examined histologically. The earliest histologically convincing lesion acceptable as acute atherosis was fibrinoid necrosis with a perivascular mononuclear cell infiltrate, while lipophages were a late phenomenon. Any maternal uterine vessel that had not undergone physiologic vascular changes could be affected by acute atherosis. Acute atherosis was not seen in normal pregnancies or in pregnancies of diabetic women but was seen in pregnancies complicated by preeclampsia, small-for-gestational-age infants, or both. In pregnancies complicated by small-for-gestational-age infants, acute atherosis was not seen in the vessels in the decidua parietalis. 
Comparison of computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging for the postoperative assessment of residual acoustic tumor. Ten patients with surgically confirmed residual cerebellopontine angle neuromas, imaged by both computerized tomography (CT) with iodine contrast and magnetic resonance (MR) with and without gadolinium enhancement, are reviewed to identify the strengths and limitations of MR as compared with CT imaging. MR imaging offers superior anatomic resolution in multiple imaging planes without ionizing radiation, but it is expensive and has adverse effects on some patients. CT imaging offers good anatomic resolution, but in only one or two planes. CT is both less expensive and generally well tolerated, but allergy to the iodine contrast is not uncommon. The cases presented demonstrate the adequacy of CT imaging of residual tumor. However, in some cases MR imaging provided important additional detail. MR imaging also demonstrated postoperative changes within the brain stem and cerebellum. In our experience, CT imaging remains a satisfactory, unambiguous approach to the assessment of known postoperative residual cerebellopontine angle neuromas. MR imaging provides superior resolution, however, and should be used when better definition of tumor detail is needed for management decisions or when multiple follow-up scans are anticipated, so that the exposure to ionizing radiation is limited. MR is also useful to investigate postoperative neurologic dysfunction. Postoperative changes and residual tumors are more difficult to interpret on MR than on CT. Guidelines are proposed to help distinguish residual tumor from postoperative changes and scarring. 
Biased estimates of expected acute myocardial infarction mortality using MedisGroups admission severity groups This study examines whether the MedisGroups admission severity groups give unbiased estimates of 30-day mortality in 3037 Medicare-aged patients who were hospitalized in 1985 through 1986 with acute myocardial infarction. The average observed death rate for all acute myocardial infarction patients in the study who were in a given admission severity group was used to estimate the expected death probability for each case in a given group. (This is the same method used by the Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council for risk adjusting hospital mortality by diagnosis related groups in that state.) When compared with observed deaths, estimates of expected mortality were significantly biased for many patient attributes (eg, age, location of acute myocardial infarction, history of congestive heart failure, serum potassium level, serum urea nitrogen level, pulse rate, and blood pressure). These results are consistent with a conclusion that the MedisGroups scoring algorithm omits some important risk variables, inappropriately includes some other variables reflecting postadmission status, and gives the wrong weights to some appropriate risk variables. To the extent that these findings are also applicable to current MedisGroups scoring algorithms and to other conditions and procedures, MedisGroups admission severity groups cannot fairly adjust for interhospital case mix differences in outcome studies. 
Argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions and alpha-fetoprotein in adenomatous hyperplasia in human cirrhotic livers. Recently, adenomatous hyperplasia (AH) of the liver has been suspected as a precancerous lesion in human hepatocarcinogenesis. The authors examined 75 cases of AH from 42 cirrhotic livers, using staining of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs). These reflect proliferative cell activity. Findings in AH were compared with those seen in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and other chronic liver diseases. Expression of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was also examined immunohistochemically. The authors classified AH into three types: ordinary (OAH), atypical (AAH), and AH with focal malignancy (FM). OAH implies a lack of atypia; AAH represents AH with structural and cellular atypia but without the features of overt carcinoma; and FM denotes AH with foci of overt HCC. Forty of the 75 cases of AH were categorized as OAH, 19 as AAH, and 16 as FM. The noncancerous areas of FM had features of AAH. The mean number of AgNORs in AH was intermediate between that seen in cirrhosis (2.93) and HCC (6.18) and showed a step-wise increase in the following order: OAH (2.95), AAH (3.89), noncancerous areas in FM (4.58), and malignant foci in FM (5.71). There was no significant difference in AgNOR counts between OAH and cirrhosis. AgNOR counts in AAH and FM were significantly higher than those of OAH, and lower than those of HCC. AFP was positive in 12 of 25 HCCs and in malignant foci of 3 FM lesions, but it was absent in OAH and AAH. These data suggest that OAH has a limited capacity for proliferation but that AAH and FM are much more replicative. The latter two conditions are probably preneoplastic lesions or early forms of HCC. 
Congestive heart failure secondary to an arteriovenous fistula from cardiac catheterization and angioplasty. Arteriovenous (AV) fistulae are well known to cause high output cardiac failure. AV fistulae from cardiac catheterization are as rare as 0.01% in the transfemoral approach. We describe here what we believe is the first reported case of high output cardiac failure from an AV fistula due to percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The patient had reversal of the congestive heart failure with surgical correction of the fistula. 
Stroke in patients treated with thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The thrombosis in myocardial infarction clinical trial and a review of placebo-controlled trials. The frequency of stroke among patients in six recent placebo-controlled trials of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction is reviewed. Three trials used streptokinase and three used tissue plasminogen activator as the thrombolytic agent. While thrombolytic therapy greatly reduces the morbidity and mortality of acute myocardial infarction, it increases the rate of intracerebral hemorrhage. 
A phase IA trial of sequential administration recombinant DNA-produced interferons: combination recombinant interferon gamma and recombinant interferon alfa in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. This study investigated the effects of sequentially administered recombinant interferon gamma (rIFN gamma) and recombinant interferon alfa (rIFN alpha) in 36 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). rIFN alpha was subcutaneously administered daily for 70 days at dosages that varied (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 x 10(6) U/m2) across four cohorts of patients. Within each cohort of patients receiving a given dose of rIFN alpha, three subsets of patients received either 30, 300, or 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. rIFN gamma was administered intravenously for 5 days every third week, 6 hours prior to administration of rIFN alpha. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) included constitutional symptoms, leukopenia, nephrotic syndrome with acute renal failure, hypotension associated with death, and congestive heart failure. DLT was related more often to the rIFN alpha dose level than to rIFN gamma dose level. Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 10 x 10(6) U/m2 rIFN alpha and 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. Six patients failed to complete a minimum of 21 days of therapy due to toxicity or rapid progression of disease. Clinical responses were seen in eight of 30 assessable patients. Two patients experienced complete remission and have remained in complete remission 20+ and 22+ months. An additional six patients have shown partial responses for 4 to 18+ months. One patient in partial remission continues to show slow regression of pulmonary and liver lesions off therapy with rIFNs. Clinical responses have remained durable for patients with complete remissions and patients with partial remissions. The results of this study suggest that toxicities associated with combination rIFN therapy can be reduced by administering these agents sequentially as opposed to simultaneously. 
Cytoreduction and sequential resection: a hope for unresectable primary liver cancer. For decades, unresectable primary liver cancer (PLC) determined by operation was incurable. However, a retrospective study of 24 years' materials with unresectable PLC indicated that 5-year survival of unresectable PLC has increased from 0% in 1966-1977 (n = 137) to 16.9% in 1978-1989 (n = 345). This encouraging improvement was mainly a result of cytoreduction therapy followed by sequential resection. Multimodality combination treatment with hepatic artery ligation, plus hepatic artery infusion with chemotherapy, plus radioimmunotherapy (or radiotherapy) yielded the highest sequential resection rate (30.6%) and 5-year survival (28.0%) as compared with double combination and single modality treatment. The 5-year survival of 33 patients receiving sequential resection after cytoreduction therapy was 63.2%. It is suggested that cytoreduction and sequential resection might offer a hope for surgically verified unresectable PLC. 
Intracranial aneurysms in sickle-cell anemia: clinical features and pathogenesis. Intracranial aneurysms are an unusual complication of sickle-cell anemia; only 15 patients have been described in the world literature. An additional 15 patients with sickle-cell anemia and subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from ruptured intracranial aneurysms are presented. There was a high incidence of multiple aneurysms (60%); some of which were in unusual locations. The clinical and pathological features of this series of patients have provided a paradigm for acquired aneurysm formation that may be applicable to other intracranial aneurysms. Thirteen patients underwent craniotomy and clip ligation; the perioperative management of these patients is discussed. Of these 13, eight had a good recovery, three were left with moderate disability, one patient died of surgical complications, and one died of complications related to sickle-cell anemia. Two of the 15 patients died of SAH. The authors propose that endothelial injury from the abnormal adherence of sickle erythrocytes to the endothelium is the initiating event in arterial wall injury. Subsequently, there is fragmentation of the internal elastic lamina and degeneration of the smooth-muscle layer. Hemodynamic stress at these loci of arterial wall damage results in aneurysm formation. This hypothesis also explains other cerebrovascular manifestations of sickle-cell anemia, namely vaso-occlusive disease and hemorrhage without aneurysm formation. Pathological material from this series and data from the literature are presented to support this hypothesis. 
Vitamin B6 is effective therapy for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy: a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Fifty-nine women completed a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B6) for the treatment of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. Thirty-one patients received vitamin B6, 25-mg tablets orally every 8 hours for 72 hours, and 28 patients received placebo in the same regimen. Patients were categorized according to the presence of vomiting: severe nausea (score greater than 7) or mild to moderate nausea (score of 7 or less). The severity of nausea (as graded on a visual analogue scale of 1-10 cm) and the number of patients with vomiting over a 72-hour period were used to evaluate response to therapy. Twelve of 31 patients in the vitamin B6 group had a pre-treatment nausea score greater than 7 (severe) (mean 8.2 +/- 0.8), as did ten of 28 patients in the placebo group (mean 8.7 +/- 0.9) (not significant). Following therapy, there was a significant difference in the mean "difference in nausea" score (ie, baseline - post-therapy nausea) between patients with severe nausea receiving vitamin B6 (mean 4.3 +/- 2.1) and placebo (mean 1.8 +/- 2.2) (P less than .01). In patients with mild to moderate nausea and in the group as a whole, no significant difference between treatment and placebo was observed. Fifteen of 31 vitamin B6-treated patients had vomiting before therapy, compared with ten of 28 in the placebo group (not significant). At the completion of 3 days of therapy, only eight of 31 patients in the vitamin B6 group had any vomiting, compared with 15 of 28 patients in the placebo group (P less than .05). 
Results of surgery for extratemporal partial epilepsy that began in childhood. Thirty-five consecutive patients who underwent surgery for intractable extratemporal seizures originating in childhood are described. Candidates for surgery were selected on the basis of clinical criteria, neurodiagnostic imaging, and an electroencephalographic investigation that included the use of sphenoidal electrodes and long-term monitoring. Invasive preoperative monitoring was not used. Our results, with respect to the control of seizures and behavioral improvement, are comparable with series in which data from invasive recordings were used in the selection process. Sixty-three percent of the 35 patients (76.5% of those operated on after the introduction of long-term electroencephalographic monitoring) became either seizure free or experienced a reduction in their frequency of seizures by at least 75%. The favorable outcome in this group of patients strengthens the argument for early operation in children with intractable epilepsy, even when the seizure focus is outside the temporal lobe. 
Visual acuity in infants after vitrectomy for severe retinopathy of prematurity [published erratum apppears in Ophthalmology 1991 Jul;98(7):1005] During the course of the Multicenter Trial of Cryotherapy for Retinopathy of Prematurity (CRYO-ROP), 98 infants (129 eyes) from the randomized segment of the trial developed total retinal detachment from retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) before the 1-year examination. The authors report as a case series the results of acuity card assessment of monocular grating acuity at 1 year in 53 infants (71 eyes) postvitrectomy and in 45 infants (58 eyes) who had retinal detachments but who did not undergo retinal reattachment surgery. The decision to undertake and the surgical technique used for a retinal reattachment procedure was not part of the randomized CRYO-ROP trial. Two eyes of one infant had pattern vision at the lowest measurable threshold after vitrectomy. None of the remaining eyes that had undergone vitrectomy and none of the eyes that did not undergo vitrectomy showed evidence of pattern vision. The relatively poor visual outcomes in this case series suggest that efforts are well-spent in attempting to prevent retinal detachment in ROP. 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1-associated myelopathy and primary sclerosing cholangitis. We report the first case of human T-lymphotropic type 1-associated myelopathy (HAM) linked with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). The patient, a 44-year-old woman, also suffered from ulcerative colitis and polyarthritis. Two years and nine months after the clinical onset of PSC, the coexistence of HAM was shown by neurological manifestations characterized by slowly progressive symmetrical myelopathy, predominantly involving pyramidal tracts, and positive antibodies to human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 in serum as well as in cerebrospinal fluid. 
Operative management of acoustic neuromas: the priority of neurologic function over complete resection. The objective of surgical management of acoustic tumors is to remove them entirely and preserve facial nerve function and hearing when possible. A dilemma arises when it is not possible to remove the entire tumor without incurring additional neurologic deficits. Twenty patients who underwent intentional incomplete surgical removal of an acoustic neuroma to avoid further neurologic deficit were retrospectively reviewed. They were divided into a subtotal group (resection of less than 95% of tumor) and a near-total group (resection of 95% or more of tumor) and were followed yearly with either computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The subtotal group was planned and consisted of elderly patients (mean age, 68.5 years) with large tumors (mean, 3.1 cm). The near-total group consisted of younger patients (mean age, 45.8 years) and smaller tumors (mean, 2.3 cm). The mean length of followup for all patients was 5.0 years. Ninety percent of patients had House grade I or II facial function post-operatively. Radiologically detectable tumor regrowth occurred in only one patient, who was in the subtotal resection group. Near-total resection of acoustic tumor was not associated with radiologic evidence of regrowth of tumor for the period of observation. Within the limits of the follow-up period of this study, subtotal resection of acoustic neuroma in elderly patients was not associated with clinically significant recurrence in most patients and produced highly satisfactory rates of facial preservation with low surgical morbidity. 
Hemodynamic responses to endotracheal extubation after coronary artery bypass grafting. After coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery, patients may remain at risk for myocardial ischemia and infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias. The hemodynamic responses to endotracheal extubation and the efficacy of intravenous lidocaine pretreatment were studied after CABG surgery and overnight mechanical ventilation. Twenty-five patients were divided into two groups: group 1 (n = 13) patients who had tracheal extubation after pretreatment with a placebo; group 2 patients who received lidocaine (1 mg/kg IV) before tracheal extubation. Hemodynamic data, electrocardiographic tracings, and arterial blood gases were obtained before tracheal extubation, during suctioning, and 1, 5, and 20 min after tracheal extubation. Group 1 patients displayed significant increases in heart rate, arterial blood pressure, rate-pressure product, right atrial pressure, and cardiac index during suctioning and within 1 min of tracheal extubation, returning to preextubation level by 5 min. There were no significant changes in pulmonary and systemic resistance indices. Hemodynamic changes in group 2 patients were similar to those in group 1. Both in the absence and presence of lidocaine, tracheal extubation caused hemodynamic responses that were small in magnitude and brief in duration. These responses were not associated with electrocardiographic or enzymatic evidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction, or with ventricular dysrhythmias. Compared with the well-documented hemodynamic responses to tracheal intubation, we found that extubation of the trachea after CABG surgery was associated with less pronounced responses. This may be related to avoidance of laryngoscopy and possibly accommodation to the endo-tracheal tube. These modest hemodynamic responses of extubation of the trachea after CABG surgery were not modified by intravenous lidocaine. 
The effect of positive reinforcement on hourly compliance in nasal continuous positive airway pressure users with obstructive sleep apnea. Previous reports have described compliance with nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) only in terms of the number of patients able to use it beyond their initial trial night or those continuing after some home use. Because of a possible difference between the level of compliance (mean number of hours of use per 24 h) needed for symptomatic relief of OSA versus cardiovascular improvement, the level of hourly compliance in chronic nCPAP users may be important. The first part of this study prospectively examines compliance in a stable population of OSA patients already using nCPAP for 6 months to 2 yr. The second part is a prospective randomized, crossover study examining the effect of weekly (three times) then monthly (twice) positive reinforcement on hourly compliance of new nCPAP users for 3 months versus no reinforcement for 3 months. Positive reinforcement consisted of telephone discussions with the patients about the severity or complications of OSA, benefits of nCPAP, and suggestions about minimizing side effects. Using self-assessment scales, each patient reported the perceived level of improvement from the untreated to the treated condition and the prevalence and severity of side effects from the nCPAP therapy. The level of compliance in stable, chronic nCPAP users with OSA was 6.1 +/- 2.2 h/24 h (n = 9). For the new nCPAP users during the nonreinforced period, the mean compliance was 6.0 +/- 2.8 h/24 h; that during the reinforcement period was 6.0 +/- 2.7 h/24 h (NS). There was no significant correlation between perceived improvement in OSA symptoms or between the perceived side effects of nCPAP versus hourly compliance. 
Prostatic abscess after transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy. We report a case of a diabetic man who had bilateral prostatic abscesses after ultrasound guided biopsy of the prostate. As is typical of prostatic abscesses, the diagnosis was not evident at presentation. We discuss the morbidity of transrectal biopsy and recommend consistent antimicrobial prophylaxis. We also recommend transrectal ultrasound in the diagnosis of such abscesses, and support the standard treatment of drainage and parenteral antimicrobial therapy. We anticipate that the incidence of prostatic abscess will increase due to the increasing number of men undergoing transrectal biopsy in the current age of transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy. 
Trunk orientation as the determining factor of the 'contralateral' deficit in the neglect syndrome and as the physical anchor of the internal representation of body orientation in space. The present study examines which egocentric coordinate system determines the border between the disturbed 'contralateral' and the normal 'ipsilateral' side in patients with hemineglect. Based on the observation of significantly longer reaction times for saccades towards stimuli presented in the left visual field (LVF) in right brain-damaged patients with hemineglect, stimuli were presented randomly to the LVF or RVF and the corresponding saccadic reaction times (SRTs) were compared. Beginning with the standard body position generally used for the investigation of neglect patients, where the midlines of head, trunk and visual field are parallel and oriented straight towards the middle of the projection screen, the spatial relation between orientation of head and trunk midlines and location of the target stimuli was systematically varied while holding the retinal projection of the stimuli constant. The deficit in SRTs towards the LVF in 4 right brain-damaged patients with left-sided hemineglect could be compensated for by turning the patients' trunk to the left, such that both LVF and RVF-stimuli were projected to the right, ipsilateral side of trunk space. The results suggest that the spatial orientation of the trunk midline divides our normal perception of space into an egocentric 'left' and an egocentric 'right' sector and seems to be the decisive factor for determining the neglected 'contralateral' part of space in patients with brain-damage. They indicate that the trunk midline constitutes the physical anchor for calculation of the internal egocentric coordinate frame for representing body position with respect to external objects. The hypothesis of Ventre et al. (1984) that deficient reactions to contralaterally located stimuli in neglect patients could be the result of a displacement of these egocentric coordinates towards the non-neglected, ipsilateral side is discussed. 
Balloon dilatation of esophageal strictures in children. Traditionally, the treatment of esophageal strictures in children has been done with mercury bougies in a prograde fashion or with Tucker dilators passed along a guide wire in a retrograde manner. An alternative approach has used a balloon dilatation catheter passed over a guide wire previously placed under fluoroscopic guidance. Over the past 5 years, this technique has been used in 43 procedures for both discrete and diffuse strictures. The interventions were performed in a total of 15 patients ranging in age from 8 months to 21 years. In all cases, there was improvement of the preceding symptoms following dilatation. This report details the experience with this technique at Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, emphasizing the indications, contraindications, and potential complications associated with balloon dilatation of esophageal strictures in children. 
A lesson from the controversy about heart rate adjustment of ST segment depression. To summarize the literature review, the heart rate adjustment appears to be able to perfectly discriminate patients with different numbers of diseased coronary vessels in one center, to increase the diagnostic accuracy of three-vessel or left main disease in eight centers, and unable to improve accuracy in seven centers. To explain those differences, several methodological and statistical biases have been considered. However, a recent report regarding the application of the method in eight centers and a meticulous literature review could not explain the superior performance in some laboratories. 
Surgical treatment of carcinoma of the gastric stump. To evaluate retrospectively the surgical treatment of patients with gastric stump cancer following gastrectomy for benign disease, we reviewed 52 patients operated on at the National Cancer Centre, Tokyo, between 1962 and 1988. Resection was carried out in 47 patients (90 per cent) and with curative intent in 36 (69 per cent). Stage distribution was: stage 1, 15 patients; stage 2, 5; stage 3, 9; stage 4, 23. In 36 cases curatively resected, 32 had completion total gastrectomy and four had subtotal resection. An R1 resection was performed in 11 patients and an R2 in 25. We had two hospital deaths and a 5-year survival rate excluding hospital deaths of 39 per cent. The 5-year survival rates of resected cases, curative cases and those having metastatic nodes were 43 per cent, 57 per cent and 29 per cent respectively. Radical resection is a reasonable treatment for gastric stump cancer as it is for primary cancer of the stomach. 
Psychosis following temporal lobe surgery: a report of six cases. Six consecutive patients who had had temporal lobe surgery for epilepsy, and been referred for psychiatric assessment of psychotic symptoms, are reported. Their symptoms (a delusional depression, four schizophrenia-like illnesses, and a case of Capgras' syndrome) are discussed in relation to the possible role of their operations, all of which were on the right hemisphere. 
Diastolic mitral regurgitation with atrioventricular conduction abnormalities: relation of mitral flow velocity to transmitral pressure gradients in conscious dogs. Diastolic mitral regurgitation is a common finding that can be detected with use of Doppler echocardiographic techniques in patients with atrioventricular (AV) conduction abnormalities. With use of simultaneous hemodynamic and Doppler techniques, mitral flow velocity, mitral valve motion and transmitral pressure gradient were studied during 50 cardiac cycles each of spontaneous or atrial paced first- and second-degree AV block in five lightly sedated dogs. Diastolic mitral regurgitation was detected during atrial relaxation on all beats in which ventricular contraction was delayed greater than 190 ms. In all dogs the diastolic regurgitation was associated with a reverse transmitral pressure gradient (3.7 +/- 1.1 mm Hg in first-degree AV block and 3.2 +/- 1.5 mm Hg in second-degree AV block) that occurred primarily as the result of a decrease in atrial pressure with atrial relaxation. These reverse pressure gradients were as large as the maximal forward transmitral gradients in early diastole (2.9 +/- 0.9 mm Hg in first-degree AV block and 3.1 +/- 0.7 mm Hg in second-degree AV block) and larger than the maximal forward pressure gradients at atrial contraction (1.7 +/- 0.5 and 1.4 +/- 0.6 mm Hg, respectively, p less than 0.05). The maximal reverse pressure gradient during atrial relaxation was also as large as the reverse pressure gradient in mid-diastole (2.7 +/- 0.9 and 2.8 +/- 1.0 mm Hg, respectively), associated with deceleration of early diastolic mitral flow. Peak diastolic mitral regurgitation velocity coincided with the maximal reverse transmitral gradient and was usually larger than anterograde mitral flow velocity. 
A prospective comparison of class IA, B, and C antiarrhythmic agents in combination with amiodarone in patients with inducible, sustained ventricular tachycardia BACKGROUND. Clinical experience suggests that combinations of antiarrhythmic agents provide more effective control of ventricular tachyarrhythmias than does therapy with single agents. METHODS AND RESULTS. Antiarrhythmic and electrophysiological effects of three class I antiarrhythmic agents, one from each subclass A, B, and C, were assessed in single use and in combination with amiodarone in patients with inducible, sustained ventricular tachycardia that was not suppressed by monotherapy with these agents. Thirty-one patients underwent an electrophysiology test on four occasions: at baseline; after 2-4 days of treatment with quinidine, mexiletine, or encainide; after 2 weeks of treatment with 1,200 mg/day amiodarone; and last, after 2-4 days of treatment with both amiodarone and the previously tested class I agent. The combination of a class I agent and amiodarone prevented the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in only one of 31 (3%) patients. Ventricular tachycardia became hemodynamically stable in 11 of 31 (34%) patients because of a marked prolongation in the tachycardia cycle length. It increased from 323 +/- 39 to 423 +/- 84 msec (n = 11, p less than 0.01) by adding encainide to amiodarone therapy, and it showed a tendency to lengthen when quinidine was added to amiodarone (from 373 +/- 77 to 425 +/- 58 msec; n = 10, NS). Each class I agent increased amiodarone-induced depression in myocardial conduction, but the extent of the additional depression seemed to differ among the three subclasses. Ventricular refractoriness was increased by all class I agents when used in combination with amiodarone, although not by mexiletine or encainide when used alone. CONCLUSIONS. Class I antiarrhythmic agents slow ventricular conduction and increase ventricular refractoriness when used in combination with amiodarone. When amiodarone and class I drugs by themselves do not suppress the induction of ventricular tachycardia, the combination of amiodarone and a class I agent seldom results in noninducibility; however, it often lengthens the ventricular tachycardia cycle length and may render the ventricular tachycardia hemodynamically stable. 
Interleukin 4 is important in protective immunity to a gastrointestinal nematode infection in mice. Parasitic helminths typically induce components of immediate-type hypersensitivity, including elevated serum IgE, eosinophilia, and mucosal mast cells. These responses are T-cell-dependent and associated with rapid expulsion of parasitic worms from a sensitized host; existing experimental systems have failed to define the precise role of cytokines in these responses. We report here that anti-interleukin 4 or anti-interleukin 4 receptor antibodies block the polyclonal IgE response to a parasitic nematode, Heligmosomoides polygyrus, and abrogate protective immunity to the infection. In contrast, anti-interleukin 5 antibody prevented H. polygyrus-induced eosinophilia but did not prevent protection. These data provide evidence that a specific cytokine affects the physiology and survival of a parasitic nematode in the host. 
Hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in systemic sclerosis and primary pulmonary hypertension. Reduction of pulmonary vascular resistance by a high inspired oxygen concentration is a common, but not universal phenomenon in patients with pulmonary vascular disease of varying etiology that may determine their response to long-term domiciliary oxygen therapy. We therefore determined changes in PVR during oxygen therapy in two patient populations not previously studied: systemic sclerosis (n = 8, mean age +/- SEM, 44.5 +/- 5.4 years) and primary pulmonary hypertension (n = 7, mean age +/- SEM 38 +/- 7.8 years). All patients were hypoxemic (arterial oxygen tension, on air 9.5 +/- 1.2 kPa for SSc and 8.3 +/- 0.6 kPa for PPH, p greater than 0.05). Right atrial pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary artery occlusion pressure, systemic arterial pressure, PaO2 and cardiac output by thermodilution were measured at three, 20-min intervals while inspiring air and again after inspiring 60 percent oxygen for 30 min. The PVR fell significantly with oxygen in patients with SSc from 797.6 +/- 179.2 to 610 +/- 151.6 dynes/s/cm-5 (p less than 0.01), and this fall correlated with baseline PAP and PaO2 prior to oxygen therapy (r = 0.86, p less than 0.025; r = 0.77, p less than 0.05, respectively). In patients with PPH, there was no significant fall in PVR with oxygen (from 969 +/- 80.2 to 851.9 +/- 91.2 dynes/s/cm-5, p greater than 0.05) and no predictor of a vasodilator response in individual patients. In SSc, hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction contributes more consistently to elevated PVR than in patients with PPH. 
Trigeminal neuralgia secondary to tumor with normal exam, responsive to carbamazepine. Trigeminal neuralgia is most commonly idiopathic, although it can be associated with multiple sclerosis. Tumors are rare causes of trigeminal neuralgia. A case is presented of trigeminal neuralgia with normal neurological examination and responsive to carbamazepine, secondary to a cerebellopontine angle meningioma. Literature relative to neoplastic etiologies of trigeminal neuralgia is reviewed. The role of electrodiagnostic testing in the evaluation of trigeminal neuralgia is considered. A normal neurological examination and responsiveness to carbamazepine do not exclude tumor as an etiology of trigeminal neuralgia. 
Prevalence of gastroesophageal reflux in elderly patients in a primary care setting. Despite the aging of our population, there remains a paucity of information about gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in the elderly. To assess the prevalence and characteristics of GER within this patient population, questionnaires evaluating symptoms associated with GER were administered to 313 consecutive patients 62 yr old or older from a primary care setting. Fourteen percent of these patients reported having at least weekly heartburn. Ambulatory 24-h esophageal pH monitoring was accomplished in 54 of the 313 patients surveyed. Twenty percent (11/54) of this subgroup exhibited increased acid contact time (pH less than 4 for more than 6% of the monitoring period). Twenty-two percent (12/54) complained of heartburn, yet only six individuals (11%) exhibited both symptomatic and objective indications of acid reflux. Surprisingly, 31% (17/54) of the patients studied exhibited significant alkalinity within the distal esophagus (pH greater than 8 for greater than 1.5% of the monitoring period). Whereas 29% of these patients (5/17) reported heartburn, 40% of those reporting heartburn (2/5) had acid GER as well as excessive alkalinity. In contrast to patients with acid GER--none of whom reported pulmonary symptoms--24% (4/17) of these patients with esophageal alkalinity reported wheezing, nocturnal cough, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Of the four patients with significant distal esophageal exposure to both acid and alkali, two reported heartburn and a third reported dysphagia. In addition to the somewhat higher prevalence of acid reflux than anticipated, a surprisingly high prevalence of esophageal alkalinity was observed. 
Impact of intraoperative echocardiography on surgical management of congenital heart disease. Intraoperative echocardiography was performed by epicardial, 2-dimensional, low- and high-pulsed repetition frequency, continuous-wave Doppler and color flow mapping in 50 patients. Forty studies were performed before and 44 studies after cardiopulmonary bypass. Studies before cardiopulmonary bypass agreed with preoperative evaluation. After cardiopulmonary bypass, studies revealed that 11 of 25 patients who underwent repair of ventricular septal defects had residual ventricular septal defects, and 1 of 25 patients who underwent atrial septal repair had 1 residual atrial communication. One patient with a "Swiss cheese" ventricular septum underwent repeat cardiopulmonary bypass to close residual ventricular septal defects. The patient with a residual atrial communication required immediate reoperation because of a right to left shunt after a modified Fontan procedure. Eight of 10 remaining residual ventricular septal defects spontaneously closed 1 to 41 days after operation. Assessment of postcardiopulmonary bypass and postoperative valvular regurgitation in 21 valves revealed good correlation (p less than 0.01). However, 1 patient required reoperation for mitral valve replacement on the sixth postoperative day. The correlation was fair between postcardiopulmonary bypass and postoperative residual stenotic pressure gradients in 12 surgically repaired stenotic lesions. This study shows that little additional information is added to a comprehensive preoperative evaluation by precardiopulmonary bypass intraoperative echocardiography. Postcardiopulmonary bypass intraoperative echocardiography is useful in identifying residual shunts. Assessment of stenotic gradients and valvular regurgitation must be interpreted in light of a changing hemodynamic state. 
Intensive combination chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation leads to the reappearance of Philadelphia chromosome-negative cells in chronic myelogenous leukemia. Fifteen patients with Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) who were ineligible for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or alpha-interferon therapy were included in this study. Eight patients were in the first late chronic phase, five were in the second chronic phase, one was in the accelerated phase, and one was in the blastic phase. Autologous bone marrow cells (median, 2.5 x 10(8) nucleated cells/kg) were stored at a median of 30 months after diagnosis. Patients were treated with cyclophosphamide (1.5 g/m2 daily for 4 days), carmustine (BCNU) (300 mg/m2), and etoposide (VP-16) (250 mg/m2 daily for 3 days) (CBV), followed by reinfusion of autologous bone marrow. Hematopoietic recovery was rapid, and toxicity was mild to moderate in 14 patients. One patient died of cytomegalovirus pneumonitis. Eight of 15 patients showed Ph suppression to less than 90% Ph-positive metaphases after autologous BMT. Major cytogenetic responses (Ph suppression to less than 35% Ph-positive metaphases) developed in four patients. Cytogenetic responses were observed in 4 of 11 patients infused with 100% Ph-positive marrows, and in all 4 patients infused with Ph-mosaic marrows (mixture of diploid and Ph-positive cells). Better results were observed when autologous BMT was performed in the chronic phase compared with the advanced phases. The major cytogenetic responses have lasted for 3, 4, 12, and 15+ months, whereas minor cytogenetic responses lasted for only a short time (less than 2 months). Three of seven patients (43%) in the chronic phase with previous resistance to alpha-interferon therapy became sensitive to alpha-interferon therapy after autologous BMT. The authors concluded that intensive chemotherapy followed by autologous BMT produced cytogenetic remissions in patients with Ph-positive CML and reinduced disease sensitivity to alpha-interferon therapy in patients previously resistant to it. This is particularly useful when treatment is given during the chronic phase and stem cells are collected at a time of previous cytogenetic remission. 
Is combined modality therapy appropriate for apparently localized carcinoma of the prostate? In a pilot study at the authors' institution, 17 patients with stage C carcinoma of the prostate had preoperative therapy with diethylstilbestrol. After 8 to 12 weeks of DES at 3 mg per day, the surgical margins, seminal vesicles, and pelvic lymph nodes were free of tumor in seven patients. In one patient, no residual tumor could be found despite an extensive search, and in two other cases, only small foci of atypical cells could be found. The authors suggest a trial of the proper role of neoadjuvant hormonal therapy in stages B2 and C prostatic carcinoma. 
Reconstitution of an active surface CD2 by DNA transfer in CD2-CD3+ Jurkat cells facilitates CD3-T cell receptor-mediated IL-2 production. To investigate the requirements for CD2 expression in the activation of T lymphocytes via the CD3-TCR complex, we produced and characterized a series of CD2-variants of the IL-2 producing Jurkat leukemia cell line, J32 (surface phenotype, CD2+, CD3+, CD28+). These mutants were derived by radiation and immunoselection, and were cloned under limiting dilution conditions. A total of 3 out of 30 of these mutants selectively lost the expression of both CD2 surface molecules and CD2 mRNA, and retained the expression of the CD3-TCR complex and the CD28 molecule. A mitogenic combination of anti-CD2 antibodies (9.6 + 9-1) failed to stimulate activation of these variants as measured by mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ and by IL-2 production. The CD2- mutants stimulated with anti-CD3 or anti-TCR mAb revealed an 8- to 32-fold decrease in IL-2 production and IL-2 mRNA accumulation as compared with the parental cells. No alteration of CD3-TCR-induced mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ was observed in the CD2- mutants. Reconstitution of CD2 expression by gene transfer in two J32 CD2- mutants restored IL-2 production and IL-2 mRNA accumulation in responses to both anti-CD2 and anti-CD3-TCR mAb. These results are the first direct demonstration of the requirement for CD2 molecules in optimizing IL-2 response in human T cells stimulated via CD3-TCR complex. 
The pharmacokinetics and biodistribution of technetium-99m(V)dimercaptosuccinic acid in an animal tumor model. This study used an established rabbit tumor model with squamous carcinoma to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and biodistribution of technetium-99m-(V)dimercaptosuccinic acid. A total of 54 rabbits were studied (25 with no tumor; 29 with tumor). Technetium-99m(V)dimercaptosuccinic acid had a bi-exponential blood clearance in rabbits with no tumors (28 and 325 min) and in rabbits with tumors (27 and 352 min). There was no significant difference (p greater than 0.05) in mean clearance times between the two groups and clearance appeared unaffected by tumor mass. Technetium-99m(V)dimercaptosuccinic acid had a bi-exponential cumulative urine excretion with no apparent difference in half-times between non-tumor and tumor rabbit groups (200 and 240 min, respectively). Technetium-99m(V)dimercaptosuccinic acid had a major organ biodistribution in rabbits which included bone, kidneys, bladder and the blood pool. The major route of excretion was via the urine. There was no significant difference (p greater than 0.05) in organ biodistribution between rabbits with no tumors and rabbits with tumors and there was no evidence of active uptake of technetium-99m(V)dimercaptosuccinic acid by either squamous carcinoma or inflammatory tissue. 
Coordination of swallowing and respiration in unconscious subjects. We investigated the coordination of swallowing and breathing in 11 unconscious patients with an endotracheal tube in place during the recovery period from general anesthesia. Swallows occurred during both the inspiratory and expiratory phases with no preponderant occurrence during either phase. When a swallow occurred during inspiration, the inspiration was interrupted immediately and was followed by expiration, but the durations of both inspiration and expiration were progressively increased as the time from the onset of inspiration to the onset of swallowing was progressively delayed. A swallow coinciding with the expiratory phase progressively prolonged the duration of the expiration that had been interrupted as the timing of swallowing was progressively delayed. Repeated swallows invariably and in a predictable manner caused changes in the breathing pattern. Thus when the frequency of regularly repeated swallows was relatively high, the breathing pattern was characterized by regular, shallow, and rapid breaths. When the frequency of regularly repeated swallows was relatively low, the breathing pattern was characterized by regular, deep, and slow breaths. When the frequency of repeated swallows was irregular, the breathing patterns were characterized by inconsistent changes in tidal volume and respiratory frequency. Our results indicate that, in unconscious subjects, some mechanisms integrating respiration and swallowing are operative and responsible for changes in breathing patterns during swallowing. 
Antihypertensive drug therapy and survival by treatment status in a national survey. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES I) Epidemiologic Follow-up Study, an investigation of a cohort originally examined during the period 1971-1975, provided an opportunity to assess the frequency of antihypertensive drug therapy in the United States during the period 1982-1984. For most age-sex-race subgroups, the frequency of medication use during 1982-1984 was higher than that observed during 1976-1980 based on the NHANES II. In the interval 1982-1984, diuretic agents were the most frequent medications prescribed (47% of drugs prescribed), and beta-blockers were second (17%). At the time of the initial survey in 1971-1975, participants had their blood pressures measured and a history of diagnosis and treatment of hypertension ascertained. Follow-up for vital status was 93% complete by 1984 (average length of follow-up, 9 years). In white men and women aged 50 years and older, the relative risk of death increased steadily, from those with elevated blood pressure (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mm Hg) but no history of hypertension to those treated for hypertension but whose blood pressure was still elevated. Regardless of history or treatment, those with an elevated blood pressure had about a 25-30% excess risk of death. Evidence from these national studies shows a high frequency of antihypertensive drug therapy in 1982-1984 and suggests the importance of adequate blood pressure control for optimal survival. 
Thromboprophylaxis in patients with hip fractures: a prospective, randomized, comparative study between Org 10172 and dextran 70. A prospective, randomized, assessor-blind trial has been undertaken to compare the thromboprophylactic effect and safety of the heparinoid Org 10172 (a mixture of low molecular-weight sulfated glycosaminoglycuronides) and dextran 70 in patients operated on for hip fracture. Prestudy biostatistical calculations led to the need for 260 patients. Three hundred eight patients were randomized and 19 were excluded after randomization, the majority because of postponed surgery. Analyses were made on the 289 patients on an intention-to-treat basis, as well as on the 247 patients given correct prophylaxis. Diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis was based on bilateral ascending phlebography on postoperative days 10 through 12. The frequency of deep vein thrombosis on an intention-to-treat basis was 10% in the Org 10172 group and 30% in the dextran 70 group and, on the basis of correct prophylaxis, 12% and 31%, respectively, both differences being significant (p less than 0.001). Two-month mortality rates were equal in the groups. Three fatal pulmonary emboli were seen in the dextran group. Significantly more patients in the dextran group received postoperative transfusions; no other differences in various hemorrhagic parameters were seen. Thus it can be concluded that Org 10172 has a significantly better thromboprophylactic effect than does dextran in patients with hip fractures without significant side effects. 
Evaluation of the abdomen in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography scan or peritoneal lavage always indicated? STUDY OBJECTIVE: To investigate the necessity of intensive evaluation of the intoxicated patient with normal mentation for intra-abdominal injury after blunt torso trauma. DESIGN: Retrospective study; trauma registry and medical records. SETTING: Level I regional trauma center serving a population of 2.3 million. PARTICIPANTS: Adult victims of blunt trauma more than 17 years old, admitted between January 1, 1986, and December 31, 1989, with suspected blunt abdominal injury and serum ethanol of more than 100 mg/dL and Glasgow Coma Score of 15. INTERVENTION: All patients had serum ethanol levels measured in mg/dL and computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and/or diagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL). RESULTS: Criteria were met by 92 patients. Eighty-nine underwent CT scans, two had DPL, and one had both. Of 17 patients complaining of abdominal pain and/or tenderness on palpation, six (35.3%) had blood in the peritoneal cavity demonstrated by CT scan or DPL and underwent celiotomy. All 75 patients without abdominal pain or tenderness had negative CT scan or DPL, with no missed injury. CONCLUSION: In the intoxicated blunt trauma patient with normal mentation, the physical examination is a reliable indicator of abdominal injury. Elevated alcohol level, per se, should not be considered an absolute indication for DPL or abdominal CT. 
Reversibility of blue-gray cutaneous discoloration from amiodarone. A 45-year-old man had severe blue-gray cutaneous discoloration during amiodarone therapy for atrial fibrillation. Therefore, this drug regimen was discontinued, and long-term anticoagulation and digoxin therapy were used. The patient was advised to avoid exposure of his skin to sunlight, and a bleaching agent was prescribed. After 18 months of follow-up, the blue-gray hyperpigmentation had diminished. Although photosensitivity reactions from amiodarone occur in more than 50% of patients, blue-gray cutaneous discoloration occurs in less than 10% of patients on prolonged therapy with amiodarone. The presence of high concentrations of iodine, detected by electron probe analysis, suggests that the cutaneous deposits are amiodarone itself or a metabolite. The slow rate of elimination of amiodarone and a high uptake by fat-associated tissues may explain the delayed disappearance of cutaneous photosensitivity and late resolution of the blue-gray discoloration. Our current case supports the reversibility of these adverse effects on long-term follow-up. 
Duodenobronchial fistula. Duodenobronchial fistulas are an extremely rare subgroup of abdominobronchial fistulas, which include bronchobiliary, gastrobronchial, enterobronchial, colobronchial, and splenobronchial fistulas. Only one case of a duodenobronchial fistula has been previously reported. Duodenobronchial fistulas occur as a complication of a duodenal injury. The characteristic symptoms are a cough that produces copious bilious secretions, shortness of breath, and fever. The diagnosis is made by contrast gastrointestinal studies. Treatment requires an abdominal approach with interruption of the fistula at its duodenal origin and control of the inciting inflammatory process. With prompt diagnosis and treatment, thoracic drainage or pulmonary resection should not be needed. 
Valgus high tibial osteotomy. A long-term follow-up study. One hundred twenty-eight knees in 107 patients with osteoarthrosis treated by valgus high tibial osteotomy were clinically reviewed. Patients were reviewed from three to 15 years postoperatively (mean, 7.5 years). The revision rate in the osteoarthrotic population was 10.9%. Patients who were older than 60 years of age at the time of surgery had results comparable to those patients who were younger than 60 years of age at the time of surgery. Women and men appeared to have a similar prognosis; 79.6% good and excellent results up to nine years; at ten to 15 years, 70% good and excellent. 
Ischemic necrosis: a hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of spontaneously ruptured enterocystoplasty. Spontaneous enterocystoplasty rupture represents a devastating and potentially fatal late complication. Previously proposed mechanisms of rupture include catheter trauma, chronic infection, avulsion of adhesions between the bowel patch and peritoneum, and chronic overdistension with elevated intravesical pressures. We have witnessed this complication 4 times in 3 patients 5 weeks to 46 months postoperatively. Tissue specimens from 3 episodes in 2 patients with detubularized sigmoid enterocystoplasties were available for histological examination. All patients had a neurogenic bladder from myelomeningocele, all had an AMS800 artificial urinary sphincter and all had a documented history of chronic distension from inadequate emptying of the augmented bladder. At exploration, all of the ruptures were found within the bowel segment near the bladder apex in an area remote from the anastomotic line. In each case tissue specimens from the rupture site showed marked vascular congestion, intramural hemorrhage, abundant hemosiderin laden macrophages, myofiber atrophy and intravascular thrombi. These features are interpreted to reflect the sequelae of vascular compromise and ischemia. We propose that enterocystoplasty rupture results from ischemia, possibly due to chronic overdistension and subsequent vascular compromise. This mechanism may account for many of the previously reported cases of enterocystoplasty rupture. 
Cranial vault and gigantic intracranial hydatid cyst in a young woman. The case of a young woman (20 years) with a gigantic intracranial hydatid cyst (110 x 90 x 65 mm) is presented. The first manifestation was a grand mal seizure followed by symptoms of raised intracranial pressure. The origin of the cyst was in the diploe of the right cheek, frontal, temporal, and parietal bones. An osteoplastic craniotomy was performed, and more than 100 fertile daughter cysts were removed, together with the wall of the cyst. A modification in the standard operative procedure is proposed for gigantic cysts that emerge from the diploe of the cranial vault and extend intracranially. Therapy with dexamethasone and phenobarbital was instituted preoperatively and continued postoperatively. The 3-month follow-up showed no relapse. 
Interrupted aortic arch with tetralogy of Fallot. A report of an unsuccessful surgically treated case. Interrupted aortic arch is a complete discontinuity of two segments of the aorta. Although associated with a number of conditions, it does not occur in association with pulmonary stenosis. We report a case unsuccessfully treated but from which we have learnt a lesson. 
Amiloride delays the ischemia-induced rise in cytosolic free calcium. An increase in cytosolic free calcium (Cai) has been shown to occur early during ischemia in perfused rat, ferret, and rabbit hearts. It has been proposed that this increase in Cai may occur as a result of exchange of Nai for Cao, which occurs as a result of an increase in Nai arising from exchange of Nao for H+i. The latter exchange is stimulated by the intracellular acidification that occurs during ischemia. To test this hypothesis, we examined Cai, Nai, ATP, and pHi during ischemia in rats in the presence and absence of 1 mM amiloride, a Na-H exchange inhibitor. Cai was measured using 19F nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) of 1,2-bis(2-amino-5-fluorophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetic acid (5F-BAPTA)-loaded rat hearts. Nai was measured using 23Na NMR, and the shift reagent 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-N,N',N",N"'-tetramethylenephosph onate (Tm[DOTP]-5) was used to separate Nai and Nao. ATP and pH were determined from 31P NMR measurements. During 20 minutes of ischemia, amiloride did not significantly alter the ATP decline but did significantly attenuate the rise in Nai and Cai. After 20 minutes of ischemia, time-averaged Cai was 1.0 +/- 0.2 microM (mean +/- SEM) in amiloride-treated hearts compared with 2.3 +/- 0.9 microM in nontreated hearts. After 20 minutes of ischemia, Nai in the untreated heart was threefold greater than control, whereas in the amiloride-treated heart, Nai was not significantly different from control. These data are consistent with the involvement of Na-Ca exchange in the rise in Cai during ischemia. 
Management of the pregnant woman with spinal cord injuries. This paper forms part of an ongoing prospective study of pregnancy and labour in women with spinal cord injuries and combines a prospective and retrospective analysis of 17 pregnancies in 15 women with spinal injuries. The management and outcome in those 17 pregnancies is reviewed. 
Severe lactic acidosis related to acute thiamine deficiency. The authors report a case of severe lactic acidosis in a 3-year-old boy, after 20 days of total parenteral nutrition without vitamin supplementation. This child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia underwent a period of severe refractory lactic acidosis (pH between 6.81 and 7.00 and a serum lactate level up to 38 mmol/liter) leading to cardiac arrest. After the initial resuscitation and the subsequent treatment of shock and vitamin K deficiency, acute peritoneal dialysis was instituted to correct the severe lactic acidosis. Initial low plasma thiamine levels confirmed the diagnosis of thiamine deficiency. An associated transient pancreatic dysfunction was also noted. The patient's overall course with thiamine replacement therapy led to a complete recovery within 5 days and no sequelae were noted after 12 months. 
Concomitant pelvic irradiation, 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin C in the treatment of advanced cervical carcinoma. This was a Phase II study of 24 late (FIGO) Stage IIb and 39 Stage III patients. External beam radiotherapy was given daily, five days a week, using 15 x 15 cm parallel opposed pelvic fields. The first 20 patients had 45.00 Gy mid-plane dose in 20 fractions, Days 1-28, the last 43 patients had 50.40 Gy in 28 fractions, Days 1-43. This was followed by an intracavitary boost of 17.00 Gy to Point A in two fractions over seven days. The first seven patients had concomitant 5-fluorouracil (5FU) 1 g/m2/day (maximum 1.5 g/day) Days 2-5, 30-33 and 57-60, with mitomycin C 10 mg/m2 (maximum 15 mg) Days 2 and 57. Two patients had WHO Grade 4 cytopenia, and only two were able to have full dose intensity. The 5FU dose was reduced to 0.8 g/m2/day, for Days 2-5 and 30-33; mitomycin C was given on Day 2 only. Treatment morbidity with the reduced chemotherapy intensity was comparable with that of radiotherapy alone. Median follow-up was 16 months (range 6-44). Median survival was 35 months. The results were compared with historical controls treated using the same radiation method alone. Two-year survival for late Stage IIb patients was 67% with the combination and 72% with radiotherapy alone; for Stage III, 67% and 49% respectively. Two-year pelvic control for late Stage IIb was 87% (combination) and 84% (radiotherapy alone) and for Stage III, 61% and 55% respectively. In contrast to reports from other centres, these results do not show an overall significant improvement on radiotherapy alone. A Phase III study may not be practicable. 
Chest wall motion during epidural anesthesia in dogs. To determine the relative contribution of rib cage and abdominal muscles to expiratory muscle activity during quiet breathing, we used lumbar epidural anesthesia in six pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized dogs lying supine to paralyze the abdominal muscles while leaving rib cage muscle motor function substantially intact. A high-speed X-ray scanner (Dynamic Spatial Reconstructor) provided three-dimensional images of the thorax. The contribution of expiratory muscle activity to tidal breathing was assessed by a comparison of chest wall configuration during relaxed apnea with that at end expiration. We found that expiratory muscle activity was responsible for approximately half of the changes in thoracic volume during inspiration. Paralysis of the abdominal muscles had little effect on the pattern of breathing, including the contribution of expiratory muscle activity to tidal breathing, in most dogs. We conclude that, although there is consistent phasic expiratory electrical activity in both the rib cage and the abdominal muscles of pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs lying supine, the muscles of the rib cage are mechanically the most important expiratory muscles during quiet breathing. 
Usefulness of a pericardial friction rub after thrombolytic therapy during acute myocardial infarction in predicting amount of myocardial damage. The TAMI Study Group. To evaluate the clinical incidence and outcomes of patients with pericarditis after thrombolytic therapy, 810 patients were prospectively studied during acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Pericarditis was defined as the presence of a pericardial friction rub during the hospital course. Only 5% of patients developed a rub during AMI, a low percent compared with that in the prethrombolytic era. A pericardial friction rub more often occurred in the setting of an anterior wall AMI. Patients with, compared to those without, a pericardial friction rub had lower ejection fractions (45 vs 51%, p = 0.002); worse regional left ventricular function (-3.2 vs 2.7, standard deviation per chord); higher in-hospital mortality (15 vs 6%, p = 0.056); a higher frequency of power failure (83 vs 57%); a higher frequency of anterior wall location of the AMI (53% of cases, p = 0.002); and a higher frequency of 3-vessel disease. Therefore, although the frequency of a pericardial friction rub was low (5%) compared with that in the prethrombolytic era, its occurrence denotes more extensive myocardial damage with a worse clinical outcome. Perhaps with successful reperfusion of the infarct-related vessel, transmural myocardial necrosis is prevented and with it the development of pericarditis. Cardiac tamponade did not occur clinically in any patient who developed a pericardial friction rub. 
Analysis of anti-tumor antibodies in mice and rabbits induced by monoclonal anti-idiotope antibodies. Eight different mouse monoclonal anti-idiotope antibodies (mAb2) generated against a mouse monoclonal anti-human melanoma proteoglycan Ag (MPG) antibody (mAb1), MEM136, were tested for their ability to induce anti-MPG responses in mice and rabbits. All Ab2 were idiotypically cross-reactive and combining site-specific as demonstrated by competitive cross-inhibition studies and their ability to inhibit the binding of MEM136 to the melanoma cells, Colo38. However, only two Ab2, IM32 and IM06, were able to induce specific anti-TAA-specific (Ab1') responses in rabbits. When IM32 and IM06 were tested in allogeneic stains of mice for the induction of anti-MPG responses, only IM32 produced an Ab1' response. In mice, the Ab3 response induced by IM32 is idiotypically cross-reactive with its Ab1. Furthermore, the IM32-induced murine Ab3 and MEM136 recognized a similar MPG epitope on the melanoma cells because the Ab3 inhibited the binding of MEM136 to melanoma cells. The Ab3 induced by IM32 and IM06 in rabbits also recognized a similar epitope as the Ab1. In rabbits, the Ab3 response induced by IM32 and IM06 were idiotypically cross-reactive with each other. However, additional studies indicated that the majority of Ab3 induced by IM32 were IM32 Id-specific and lacked IM06 idiotopes. Further experimentation indicated that IM32-induced rabbit Ab3 were biologically active as demonstrated by the ability of the Ab3 to inhibit melanoma cell invasion in a Matrigel assay. 
Sphincter-sparing surgery. Since World War II, a variety of technical innovations have been introduced to preserve the anal sphincter in patients with chronic ulcerative colitis or tumors of the rectum. Studies of anorectal physiology have yielded guidelines for preserving continence and minimizing morbidity. For example, preservation of the anal rectal angle is essential; the rectal mucosa can be removed without impairing neural mechanisms; construction of a reservoir increases rectal compliance. Following these guidelines, surgeons have introduced new techniques and applications benefiting a larger and more varied patient population. Some technical problems remain, however, and patient selection criteria for restorative rectal surgery need to be refined. 
Stenting of coronary arteries: has a modern Pandora's box been opened? Interventional cardiology has recently witnessed the growth of several alternatives to percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, including coronary stenting. Although stenting appears to be useful in treating abrupt closure after coronary angioplasty, its effectiveness in limiting the complex processes responsible for late restenosis is much less certain. Pathologic examination of stented human saphenous bypass grafts shows extensive deposits of platelets, fibrin and leukocytes along the stent wires within the 1st week and formation of a neointima of variable thickness after 3 months without evidence of foreign body reaction. The long-term effects of continuous barotrauma induced by the expanded stent remain unknown. It is difficult to assess the relative merits of the new devices, but stenting has several theoretic advantages. It seems less disruptive to the underlying architecture of the vessel wall and enjoys favorable theoretic and effective expansion ratios. Wide-spread clinical acceptance for stenting will depend on demonstrating that its safety, efficacy and cost efficiency are superior to those of balloon angioplasty. 
Low incidence of non-A, non-B post-transfusion hepatitis in London confirmed by hepatitis C virus serology To see whether the introduction of screening tests for post-transfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis (NANBH) in the UK would be worth while, the incidence of such hepatitis was assessed among patients receiving blood during operations at five hospitals served by the North London Blood Transfusion Centre. 387 patients, who each received blood or blood components from an average of 3 donors were followed up prospectively and blood samples were taken every 2 weeks for 3 months and then each month for a further 3 months. 229 patients also provided a sample at 12 months. All available patient and donor samples were tested for alanine aminotransferase concentrations and for antibody to hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) by ELISA. Repeatedly anti-HCV positive samples were submitted to supplementary HCV assays. 1 of the 387 patients showed biochemical evidence of acute post-transfusion NANBH after exclusion of non-viral causes. Anti-HCV developed in this patient and the seroconversion was confirmed by recombinant immunoblot assay and polymerase chain reaction. Serum from 1 of the 8 donors whose blood he received was positive for anti-HCV by all three methods. In another patient HCV seroconversion was shown by ELISA but alanine aminotransferase concentrations remained normal throughout follow-up. His samples and those of his 2 donors were negative for HCV by the polymerase chain reaction. A third patient showed rises in alanine aminotransferase compatible with post-transfusion NANBH, but serology and polymerase chain reaction assays for HCV were negative for her samples and those of her donors. Anti-HCV reactivity likely to be false positive (negative by both confirmatory tests and no adverse effects in recipients) was seen in 6 of 1283 donors. This study, despite its being carried out in the part of the UK with the highest frequency of infectious markers in blood donations, has shown a very low incidence of post-transfusion NANBH. 
Mechanisms of gastric mucosal injury and protection. This article emphasizes and reviews the premise that because the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal injury is multifactorial, several protective mechanisms should also be considered in analyzing gastric mucosal defense. The first part of the article reviews the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal injury by major etiologic factors such as hypoxia and chemical and biological agents, and emphasizes the common endogenous mediators of damage (e.g, endothelins, leukotrienes, thromboxane, platelet-activating factor, monoamines, free radicals, proteases, ammonia, hydrochloric acid, and bile acids--in decreasing potency). The second part of the review is devoted to the gastroprotective mechanisms that are analyzed by anatomical (histologic) location and biochemical processes. The endogenous mediators of acute gastroprotection include prostaglandins, sulfhydryl (SH) compounds, non-SH antioxidants, polyamines, and epidermal growth factor, whereas the protective and mediatory role of glucocorticoids, somatostatin, pentagastrin, histamine, gangliosides, and calcitonin gene-related peptide need further studies. A list of endogenous and exogenous chemicals that exert biphasic, damaging, and protective effects on the gastric mucosa in also included. The final common pathway of acute gastroprotection at the structural and functional level seems to be the preservation of subepithelial microvascular integrity leading to maintenance of mucosal blood flow that allows the energy-dependent rapid restitution (cell migration) from surviving gastric neck cells to repair the superficial epithelial defect. Very new data on the contribution of a histodilutional barrier and release of proteases to gastroprotective processes are also discussed. 
Successful transcatheter embolization of pseudoaneurysm associated with pancreatic pseudocyst. Hemorrhage into a pancreatic pseudocyst is a rare event, but is the most rapidly lethal complication of chronic pancreatitis. Visceral-vessel aneurysms are an unexpectedly common finding in arteriography of patients with chronic pancreatitis. This case report describes bleeding from an anterior superior pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm, caused by chronic pancreatitis. The aneurysm was successfully treated by embolization with a steel coil. 
Management of adipsia by a behavioural modification technique. Adipsia combined with diabetes insipidus after hypothalamic damage may produce major difficulties in clinical management. If there is an associated memory impairment it may be impossible to teach self-regulation of fluid balance, necessitating long-term hospital supervision. The successful use of a behaviour modification technique to achieve independent drinking and allow discharge from hospital into the community is described in a patient with adipsia, diabetes insipidus and memory impairment resulting from the removal of a craniopharyngioma. 
Radionuclide esophageal transit study in detection of esophageal motor dysfunction: comparison with motility studies (manometry) Radionuclide esophageal transit study (RETS) has been developed to assess motor function of the esophagus. The purpose of this study was to compare RETS to esophageal motility studies (EMS) in detection of motility disorders. A total of 109 consecutive patients without previous history of surgery on the esophagus underwent both RETS and EMS within one month of each other. Final diagnosis was divided into three categories: I--primary esophageal motor disorders (n = 39); II--reflux disease (n = 48); and III--non-cardiac chest pain and/or dysphagia (n = 22). Using EMS as the standard, the results of RETS were as follows: sensitivity for detection of motor dysfunction was 97%, 92%, and 77% for Groups I, II, and III, respectively, while specificity was 91% for Group II and 100% for Group III. Global sensitivity was 92% and specificity was 88%. No clinically significant motor disorders were missed by RETS. In conclusion, RETS is a useful noninvasive test for the screening of patients with symptoms thought to be of esophageal origin. 
Staging carcinoma: its value in cancer of the larynx. Three thousand four hundred and forty-five cases of cancer of the larynx were examined and 3,235 assigned to their TNM group. While good correlation with prognosis could be seen, the value of the detailed subsite (as opposed to the main laryngeal regions) was limited to defining T1a and T1b and aiding that of T2. T status gives some indication of prognosis, but the N status is of almost overriding importance. 
Bovine internal thoracic artery graft. Successful use at urgent coronary bypass surgery. Bovine internal thoracic artery grafts (Bioflow) were successfully utilized in two patients for emergency coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). One patient was an 80-year-old man with severe varicose veins and a calcified ascending aorta. Heart failure occurred after triple CABG with bilateral internal thoracic and gastroepiploic arteries. The addition of a Bioflow graft to the circumflex artery restored good cardiac function. The second case was a 54-year-old man whose patent old saphenous vein graft was accidentally injured at reoperation. Emergency use of the Bioflow to bypass the right coronary artery in combination with the right gastroepiploic artery graft to the anterior descending artery resulted in an excellent outcome. The two Bioflow grafts were patent at the 20th and 10th postoperative days, respectively. These cases strongly suggest the efficacy of Bioflow during emergency situations in CABG. 
Hepatitis B and C viruses and their interaction in the origin of hepatocellular carcinoma. Serum taken from patients in a case-control study in Athens, Greece, was used to examine the interactive roles of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) in the origin of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). An enzyme immunoassay for anti-HCV was used to test serum taken from 185 cases with HCC, 35 cases with metastatic liver cancer (MLC), and 432 hospital controls. Weakly positive anti-HCV results were more strongly related to MLC than to HCC, implying that these anti-HCV results are false positive. By contrast, strongly positive anti-HCV results were significantly related to HCC (relative risk [RR], 6.3), whereas no significant association was evident for MLC (RR, 0.6). The association of anti-HCV with HCC was substantially higher among subjects whose radioimmunoassay was positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (RR, 20.0) than among those whose radioimmunoassay was negative for this marker (RR, 4.8). These findings indicate that HCV infection has an interactive role in the origin of HCC. 
Angiosarcoma of the face and scalp. A case report with complete spontaneous regression. A wide, hemorrhagic lesion occurred on the face and scalp of a 75-year-old woman who had no history of previous trauma to the region. Histology showed features consistent with a diagnosis of angiosarcoma. Clinical and radiologic investigations failed to show any sign of internal involvement. The lesion completely regressed without any therapy within a few months from onset, and the patient is alive and free of disease 36 months after the first observation. Repeated clinicoradiologic investigations failed again to prove visceral diffusion of the tumor. Spontaneous regression of an angiosarcoma is an exceptional event, and only one similar case has been reported in the literature. 
Mast cells are critical for the production of leukotrienes responsible for neutrophil recruitment in immune complex-induced peritonitis in mice. Mast cells are secretory cells strategically located in the vicinity of blood vessels where they can readily initiate and modulate various inflammatory processes, including plasma exudation and leukocyte infiltration. We have previously shown that 50% of the neutrophil influx during immune complex peritonitis in mice is due to mast cells. Eicosanoids are important mediators of various inflammatory processes including neutrophil infiltration. The possibility that mast cells are essential for the production of leukotrienes (LT) involved in the elicitation of neutrophils in immune complex peritonitis was investigated in mast cell-deficient, WBB6F1-W/WV, and normal, WBB6F(1-)+/+, mice. The time course and amounts of immunoreactive PGE2, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, and TX3B2 released into the peritoneal exudates were similar in both sets of mice. LTB4 and LTC4 levels, however, were twofold higher in +/+ than in W/WV mice 2 h after stimulation. HPLC analysis of the peritoneal exudate confirmed the presence of leukotrienes. The 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor A-63162 blocked leukotriene production in a dose-dependent manner in both sets of mice. However, this compound caused a significant reduction (60%) of neutrophil infiltration only in WBB6F(1-)+/+ but not in the mast cell-deficient mice. Mast cell reconstitution of WBB6F1-W/WV mice restored the effect of A-63162 on PMN recruitment. These data suggest that mast cells in the vicinity of blood vessels are important for the synthesis of leukotrienes responsible for PMN recruitment. 
Preliminary experience with magnetic resonance imaging in patients with third-trimester bleeding. Fifteen patients with third-trimester bleeding, in whom transabdominal ultrasound had failed to identify a definitive source of bleeding, underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Magnetic resonance imaging correctly identified three cases of placenta previa. In four patients, intrauterine blood was identified in hematomas. One hematoma was associated with a previa, two progressed to acute abruptions, and one was associated with a clot at the marginal cord insertion. Blood was seen leading away from the placenta in a case that progressed to an acute abruption. It was also seen in the region of the cervix in two patients with placenta previa. One patient had a normal MRI but had a fresh clot at delivery, which presumably formed after the imaging. In the remaining seven patients, MRI scans were negative and the placentas were normal at delivery. Our preliminary results suggest that MRI is helpful in evaluating patients with unexplained third-trimester bleeding. 
Development of systemic lupus erythematosus after interferon therapy for chronic myelogenous leukemia. A 19-year-old man with Philadelphia-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia treated with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) therapy for 45 months had systemic lupus erythematosus disease features: malar rash, migratory arthralgias, elevated antinuclear antibodies, elevated antinative DNA, hypocomplementemia, lymphopenia, and proteinuria. After discontinuation of the IFN and initiation of corticosteroids, there was gradual recovery of symptoms, a decline in antinative DNA and antinuclear antibodies to normal levels, and a decrease in proteinuria. The potential association between IFN therapy and the development of systemic lupus erythematosus, and the role of IFN in other autoimmune diseases, is discussed. 
Cerebrovascular malformation causing sudden death. Analysis of three cases and review of the literature. Three unusual cases of sudden death resulting from cerebrovascular malformation (CVM) are presented. CVMs are highly variable in location and morphology, and may be difficult to detect. Two of the patients discussed here had CVMs that involved the circle of Willis directly, and produced rapidly fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage at the base of the brain; both of these subjects were in their late 30s. One had a history of epilepsy; the other had been completely asymptomatic prior to the catastrophic event. The third was an asymptomatic 6 year old with a cerebellar CVM, who survived long enough for inconclusive neurosurgical intervention. In all three cases, the diagnosis was not made prior to autopsy; in one case, the circumstances of death were initially misleading. The relevant literature is reviewed and discussed, with emphasis on differential diagnosis, anatomic examination, and background investigation. 
Angioplasty of an oversized venous bypass graft using two fixed wire systems. Oversized saphenous vein bypass grafts may be inadequately dilated using currently available coronary angioplasty catheters. The hugging balloon technique has been previously described for lesions in large saphenous vein grafts. We report the initial use of the hugging balloon technique using two fixed wire angioplasty catheters in an oversized saphenous vein graft. 
Pituitary gonadal functioning in male alcoholics in an Indian psychiatric hospital. Serum levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone and hepatic functions were measured in 38 male alcoholics and in 24 male control subjects. Significant elevation of serum LH and a trend of low serum testosterone were noted with scant evidence of advanced liver disease. None of the alcoholics had clinical stigmata of hypogonadism and feminization. 
Renal atrophy or infarction in children with neuroblastoma. Twelve children with adrenal or upper abdominal paraaortic neuroblastoma developed unilateral or bilateral renal atrophy or infarction. At presentation, the children ranged in age from 2 weeks to 9.7 years. Neuroblastomas were stage II (n = 1), III (n = 2), IV-S (n = 2), and IV (n = 7). Treatment varied but included surgery, chemotherapy, localized abdominal irradiation, and/or bone marrow transplantation. Six children developed ipsilateral renal atrophy, five experienced ipsilateral or bilateral acute perioperative renal infarction, and one developed contralateral renal infarction unrelated to surgery. During treatment, two patients required hemodialysis; both subsequently died. Creatinine concentrations in eight patients have been in the normal range. Two patients have had mildly but persistently elevated creatinine levels. Renal damage from primary effects of the tumor can develop in children with adrenal or upper abdominal neuroblastoma. Treatment, especially surgical resection of the primary tumor, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy, can compound such damage. 
Insular carcinoma: a distinct thyroid carcinoma with associated iodine-131 localization Insular carcinoma, once considered a poorly-differentiated thyroid cancer, has been reclassified as a distinct thyroid neoplasm. Since this neoplasm is composed of follicular epithelial cells, it may concentrate radioiodide (131I) making postoperative 131I imaging for detection of metastases and radiotherapy possible. A 20-yr review of 35 cases diagnosed as anaplastic or undifferentiated thyroid carcinoma at this medical center revealed five patients with insular carcinoma. Four patients showed postoperative 131I localization and received therapeutic doses of 131I. Three of the four showed extrathyroidal 131I localization in neoplastic lesions. In one patient, the resolution of metastatic lesions by magnetic resonance and 131I imaging suggests that 131I may have an important therapeutic role in this aggressive neoplasm. 
Transmural distribution of myocardial edema by NMR relaxometry following myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. To determine the distribution and extent of myocardial edema resulting from ischemia and reperfusion, seven open-chest dogs underwent occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery for 2 hours (group I), and 10 underwent occlusion for 2 hours and reperfusion for 2 hours (group II). Proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (T1 and T2 relaxation times) and percent water content were determined to quantitate the amount of edema. There was a transmural increase of the T1 relaxation time of the central ischemic zone in groups I and II, although this increase was significantly greater in group II in both the subendocardium (group I = 707.8 +/- 12.5 msec, group II = 813.2 +/- 36.2 msec; p less than 0.01) and subepicardium (group I = 641.7 +/- 20.5 msec, group II = 760.5 +/- 34.7 msec; p less than 0.01). These increases were also observed in the T2 weighted relaxation time in the subendocardium (group I = 54.7 +/- 0.8 msec, group II = 78.7 +/- 6.3 msec; p less than 0.005) and subepicardium (group I = 54.0 +/- 1.4 msec, group II = 73.1 +/- 4.0 msec; p less than 0.001). Transmural differences were evident between the myocardial layers with increased T1 relaxation times (p less than 0.01) in the subendocardium in both groups. Similar increases were noted in the percent water content of the myocardium. Thus T1 and T2 relaxation times lengthened with an increase in myocardial water content following occlusion, and these relaxation times were augmented by reperfusion. We conclude that ischemia-induced edema occurs in a transmural distribution from subendocardium to subepicardium following occlusion, and this edema is further enhanced by reperfusion. 
Role of endothelium-derived prostanoid in angiotensin-induced vasoconstriction. To test the hypothesis that prostanoids contribute to angiotensin II-induced vascular contraction, we compared the effect of angiotensin II on isometric tension development by rings of descending thoracic aorta bathed in Krebs' bicarbonate buffer with and without indomethacin (10 microM) to inhibit cyclooxygenase, CGS13080 (10 microM) to inhibit thromboxane A2 synthesis, or SQ29548 (1 microM) to block thromboxane A2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptors. The comparisons were made in rings of aorta taken from normotensive rats and from rats with aortic coarctation-induced hypertension at 12 days and 90-113 days after coarctation. These rings released thromboxane B2, which was found to be endothelium dependent, increased in hypertensive rats, and stimulated by angiotensin II (10(-6) M) in normotensive rats and in hypertensive rats at 12 days after coarctation. The angiotensin II (10(-6) to 10(-5)M)-induced contraction of aortic rings was increased by about 30% at 12 days after coarctation and decreased at 90-113 days after coarctation. Removal of the endothelium increased the contractile effect of angiotensin II (10(-6) M) in aortic rings of normotensive rats and hypertensive rats at 90-113 days after coarctation but decreased the effect in aortic rings of hypertensive rats at 12 days after coarctation. In rats at 12 days after coarctation, the angiotensin II (10(-6) M)-induced contraction of aortic rings with endothelium was attenuated by indomethacin and SQ29548 but not by CGS13080. These data suggest that a prostanoid-mediated and endothelium-dependent mechanism of vasoconstriction contributes to the constrictor effect of angiotensin II in aortic rings of rats in the early phase of aortic coarctation-induced hypertension. 
Temporary closure of the abdominal wall by use of silicone rubber sheets after operative repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. Management of patients after operative repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms can be further complicated if primary closure of the abdominal wall cannot be technically accomplished or is associated with profound increases in intraabdominal and peak inspiratory pressures. We recently treated five patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms and one patient with a ruptured thoracoabdominal aneurysm whose abdominal incisions had to be closed with a Dacron reinforced, silicone sheet. All patients were hemodynamically unstable either at admission to the hospital or became so during operation. Four patients required the insertion of a silicone rubber sheet at the primary operation because of massive retroperitoneal hematoma or edema of the bowel wall or both. Incisions in two patients were closed primarily, but the patients required reexploration and secondary closure with silicone rubber sheets because of the development of marked increases in peak inspiratory pressures, intraabdominal pressures, and decreased urinary output. Four of the six patients subsequently underwent successful removal of the silicone rubber sheets with delayed primary closure of the abdominal wall, and two others died before removal. The patient with the ruptured thoracoabdominal aneurysm died on postoperative day 20 because of pulmonary sepsis but had a healed abdominal incision. The three surviving patients have been discharged. A silicone rubber sheet may be necessary for closure of the abdominal wall after repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in patients where primary abdominal wall closure is impossible or where it results in compromise in respiratory or renal function. 
Immunohistochemical study of thyroid peroxidase in normal, hyperplastic, and neoplastic human thyroid tissues. An immunohistochemical study using two monoclonal antibodies (MoAb 30 and MoAb 47) against thyroid peroxidase (TPO) was performed on surgical specimens of human thyroid carcinoma (n = 65), adenoma (n = 70) and Graves' disease (n = 10). Normal adjacent thyroid tissue was used as positive control. Monoclonal antibody 30 reacted significantly with all adenoma and most carcinoma, whereas MoAb 47 reacted with 66 adenoma but only two carcinoma. Of the four adenomas that did not react with MoAb 47, three were of the fetal type. Both carcinoma reacting with MoAb 47 were of the well-differentiated follicular type. These findings further confirm the hypothesis that thyroid carcinoma is associated with changes in the quantity and antigenic properties of TPO. Although the alterations in antigenic behavior revealed by MoAb 47 are not 100% specific, they may allow more accurate diagnosis of malignancy in thyroid tumors. 
Body surface isopotential mapping of the entire QRST complex in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Correlation with the location of the accessory pathway. Body surface potential maps were recorded during sinus rhythm and during atrial pacing at the time of electrophysiologic studies in 42 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The locations of the accessory pathways were determined by epicardial mapping during surgery in 34 patients and by multicatheter endocavitary electrophysiologic studies in eight additional patients. During delta wave inscription, the shape and extension of areas of the negative and positive potentials on the thorax correlated better with the preexcitation site (69% of patients) than with the localization of the minimum potential alone (45.2% of patients). Typical potential distributions were present from the beginning of the delta wave and remained stationary during the first half of the QRS complex. During marked preexcitation, the superposition of atrial activity on the delta wave produced a mixed pattern in the earliest maps. However, these alterations of early delta thoracic potential distribution did not persist longer than 30 msec. The spread of the negative potentials during the last half of the QRS complex also characterized each localization: right-sided preexcitation reproduced the depolarization sequence of left bundle branch block, left-sided preexcitation reproduced that of right bundle branch block, and posterior pathways resembled left anterior fascicular block. Anterior left ventricular and more anterior left lateral ventricular preexcitations mimicked a right bundle branch block-left posterior fascicular block pattern. There was good correlation between the body surface potential map obtained during the ST segment and the site of the right-sided preexcitation. However, in left-sided preexcitations, ST patterns concordant with delta wave patterns were found less frequently than in right-sided preexcitations. 
Amantadine toxicity presenting with complex ventricular ectopy and hallucinations. Amantadine hydrochloride is a commonly prescribed drug with a narrow therapeutic-to-toxic range. Toxicity is related to the anticholinergic properties of the drug and primarily affects the cardiovascular, central nervous, and respiratory systems. We report the case of an adolescent who ingested 1.3 grams of amantadine and developed complex ventricular arrhythmias and altered mental status. The arrhythmias were completely suppressed with intravenous lidocaine. This case supports the hypothesis that lidocaine is effective for treatment of ventricular arrhythmias secondary to amantadine toxicity. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding following open heart surgery. Predominant finding of aggressive duodenal ulcer disease. We reviewed our experience with endoscopically evaluated severe upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage following open heart surgery. Of 4892 patients undergoing open heart surgery, 18 (0.4%) sustained upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage requiring endoscopic evaluation. Endoscopy identified the source of bleeding in all cases. No significant complications of endoscopy were observed. Duodenal ulcers (DUs) were found in 16 (89%) of cases and were felt to be the source of bleeding in 15 (83%). Aggressive features, such as multiplicity, large size, or distal location were associated with 13 (81%) of the DU cases. Complications necessitated endoscopic or surgical therapy in eight (44%) patients with DUs. We conclude that aggressive DU disease accounts for the majority of severe upper gastrointestinal bleeding following open heart surgery. 
Nonketotic hyperglycinemia: treatment with NMDA antagonist and consideration of neuropathogenesis. Patients with neonatal-onset nonketotic hyperglycinemia have high-glycine content in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) which is believed to be a cause of intractable neurologic manifestations. The glycine receptor was believed to be inhibitory in the central nervous system; however, a newly discovered glycine receptor is of the excitatory N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor type, which cannot be antagonized by strychnine. The NMDA receptor antagonist, ketamine, was administered to a patient with nonketotic hyperglycinemia; he demonstrated some improvement in hyperirritability, voluntary movement, and electroencephalographic findings. Strychnine therapy had been administered before this trial of NMDA antagonist, but without improvement. The respiratory condition improved with the reduction of the CSF glycine level after withdrawal of sodium valproate. Our findings indicate that high-glycine content in CSF may affect the brain in different ways via NMDA and classic glycine receptors. 
Survival and valve failure after aortic valve replacement. A prospective evaluation of 412 consecutive patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement between January 1982 and December 1985 was performed in an attempt to identify the determinants of survival and valve failure. A variety of valves were inserted to permit a prospective evaluation of alternative valves including: Bjork-Shiley mechanical (n = 37), Ionescu-Shiley pericardial (n = 261), Hancock pericardial (n = 78), and Carpentier-Edwards porcine (n = 36). Thirteen patients died in the hospital (3.2%) and 47 patients died in the follow-up period producing an actuarial survival of 81% +/- 3% at 48 months. Survival was independently predicted by advancing age, preoperative New York Heart Association functional class, and the presence of endocarditis (p less than 0.05 by Cox regression analysis). The majority of patients were symptomatically improved (New York Heart Association class I or II: 21% preoperative, 88% postoperative). Freedom from structural valve dysfunction, prosthetic valve endocarditis, and reoperation for valve-related complications were 95% +/- 2%, 95% +/- 2%, and 92% +/- 2% at 48 months, respectively. These valve-related complications occurred more frequently in younger patients and in those with a Hancock pericardial valve (freedom from structural valve dysfunction, 89% +/- 5%; prosthetic valve endocarditis, 84% +/- 9%; reoperation, 78% +/- 10%; p less than 0.05 by Cox regression). Freedom from thromboembolism was 88% +/- 2% at 48 months; it was significantly lower in patients with a preoperative thromboembolic event and was not influenced by the type of prosthesis inserted. Freedom from anticoagulant-related hemorrhage was 85% +/- 8% at 48 months and was not influenced by any preoperative factors. 
Iliopectineal bursitis: an unusual cause of iliofemoral vein compression. The iliopectineal bursa is the largest bursa in the region of the hip joint. Enlargement of the bursa occurs in several conditions and may be manifested by groin pain, a pelvic or inguinal mass, or lower extremity edema due to compression of the external iliac or common femoral vein. A case of lower extremity edema secondary to external iliac/common femoral vein compression caused by an enlarged iliopectineal bursa is presented. The pathophysiology, methods of diagnosis, and forms of therapy are discussed. 
Efficacy of low-molecular-weight heparin in the management of intermittent claudication. Treating chronic arterial occlusive disease with heparin is controversial because of the risks associated with long-term anticoagulant therapy. Low molecular weight (LMW) heparin (mw about 5000 Dalton), which selectively inhibits the Xa factor with minimal risk of hemorrhage, seems to offer new possibilities in the prevention and treatment of both venous and acute arterial thromboembolism. Therefore, 44 patients with intermittent claudication were recruited to a randomized, double-blind, controlled study. Twenty-two were treated for six months with a single daily subcutaneous dose (15,000 UaXa) of LMW heparin and 22 with placebo administered in the same way over the same period of time. After six months, LMW heparin treatment not only improved walking capacity (by lengthening the pain-free walking time by 25%) but also significantly modified the hemorrheologic pattern (by reducing fibrinogen concentrations and whole blood viscosity at low shear rates). LMW heparin also exerted an antithrombotic and profibrinolytic effect by significantly increasing both the anti-Xa factor and plasminogen activity without markedly modifying activated partial thromboplastin time (+20%). No LMW heparin-treated patient hemorrhaged or reported other noteworthy side effects. These results suggest LMW heparin might be a useful drug in the long-term treatment of chronic arterial occlusive disease of the limbs. 
Coarctation: do we need to resect ductal tissue? A review of the literature as well as a retrospective review of 100 neonates undergoing operation for coarctation at Children's Hospital in Boston between 1972 and 1984 has not established clear superiority for either resection and end-to-end anastomosis or subclavian flap aortoplasty with respect to risk of recurrent coarctation. However, there is histological evidence that the juxtaductal coarctation shelf is composed of smooth muscle of ductal origin, which subsequently fibroses. This abnormal tissue may be at risk for late aneurysm development, particularly if balloon dilatation angioplasty is required. The fact that this abnormal tissue is not removed by the subclavian flap procedure is one of the inherent disadvantages of that procedure. Other disadvantages include the need to sacrifice the left subclavian artery and the fact that, unlike resection and end-to-end anastomosis, the subclavian flap procedure does not lend itself to augmentation of the hypoplastic distal aortic arch. Furthermore, occasionally a secondary coarctation membrane is present within the distal aortic arch, and though it is readily detected during the resection procedure, it can be missed with the subclavian flap procedure. Based on these considerations rather than on a demonstrated superiority of either procedure, my colleagues and I currently prefer resection and end-to-end anastomosis over subclavian flap aortoplasty. 
Differences of pathophysiology in experimental meningitis caused by three strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Differences in cytochemical and pathophysiologic abnormalities in experimental meningitis caused by pneumococcal strains A, B, and C were determined. Strain C produced the most severe abnormalities of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of lactate (P less than .01), protein (P less than .02), and glucose (P less than .01), CSF white blood cell count (P less than .04), cerebral blood flow (P less than .02), and clinical signs (P less than .05). Brain edema occurred only with strains A anc C, with no association with disease severity; intracranial hypertension was also independent of disease severity. Strain B, not C, achieved the highest bacterial titers in the CSF (P less than .005). The widely different abilities of strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae to induce intracranial abnormalities suggest that virulence determinants affect not only evasion of defense during colonization and invasion, as shown in other models, but also determine the course of disease once infection has been established. Differences of cell-wall metabolism among pneumococcal strains may play a role in this latter phase of the development of meningitis. 
Lack of correlation between histologic findings and response to chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer. A retrospective analysis was undertaken to assess the prognostic role of histologic findings in response to chemotherapy and survival in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Histologic material was available for 395 of 1587 patients treated for metastatic breast cancer at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1973 and 1984. Chemotherapy consisted of 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide or similar drugs, with or without tamoxifen. Maintenance cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil was continued for 2 years after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 450 mg/m2 was administered. The histologic distribution was as follows: infiltrating ductal carcinoma, 353; invasive lobular, 14; mixed histology, ten; mucinous, seven; signet ring, four; tubular, three; papillary, two; sarcomatoid, one; and apocrine, one. Because individual histologic types occurred infrequently, the patients were divided into infiltrating ductal and nonductal groups. Baseline patient characteristics included age, performance status, estrogen-receptor status, prior hormone response, disease extent, and levels of alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, and lactate dehydrogenase. These were similar in the two groups. Significantly more patients with nonductal histology had greater than three metastatic sites. There were also more patients with hemoglobin less than 10 mg/dl and albumin less than 3.5 mg/dl in the nonductal group of patients. However, statistically these factors did not have an impact on the results. There was a 63% response rate (17% complete and 46% partial) for the ductal group and a 60% response rate (12% complete and 48% partial) for the nonductal group. The time from initiation of chemotherapy to disease progression was identical (12 months) for the two groups. Survival from initiation of chemotherapy was not significantly different (22 months for ductal and 27 months for nonductal). Based on this study, the authors conclude that histologic findings have no bearing on patient response to chemotherapy or survival in metastatic breast cancer. 
Thromboembolism prophylaxis. Choosing the proper method for surgical patients. The primary care physician can play a major role in preoperative consultation in terms of assisting the surgical team to reduce the risk of thromboembolism. A preoperative risk assessment takes into account the type and duration of surgery as well as the existence of risk factors such as age and underlying medical conditions. With careful communication, the consulting physician and surgical team can together select a method of preventing thromboembolism that will prove both safe and effective. 
Prenatal alcohol exposure and language development. The effects of fetal alcohol exposure on language and speech acquisition were investigated in a cohort of socioeconomically disadvantaged urban children. Language development was assessed by instruments derived from the Expressive and Receptive Scales of the Sequenced Inventory of Communication Development (SICD) at 1, 2, and 3 years, and by indices constructed from a taped speech sample at age 2 years. Three indices of maternal drinking were supplemented with birth weight and a tally of craniofacial anomalies as early indicators of fetal alcohol damage. No statistically significant relationships were found between the alcohol and language indices after statistical control for confounding variables. The anomalies tally was marginally related to reduced language scores. The statistical significance of this relationship, depended, however, on a single child with the characteristics of fetal alcohol syndrome. The pattern of results suggested that the anomalies tally, and to a lesser extent birth weight, are more sensitive indicators of fetal alcohol exposure than subsequent language development. 
Acute and chronic poisoning from residential exposures to elemental mercury--Michigan, 1989-1990. From May 1989 through November 1990, eight episodes of elemental mercury exposure in private residences or schools in the United States were reported to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). The case studies in this report document two of these episodes (both in Michigan) of residential mercury poisoning--one involving acute mercury exposure, and the other, chronic exposure to elemental mercury. These episodes illustrate the differing clinical and toxicologic manifestations of acute and chronic mercury poisoning. 
Recognition of UGA as a selenocysteine codon in type I deiodinase requires sequences in the 3' untranslated region. Selenocysteine is incorporated cotranslationally at UGA codons, normally read as stop codons, in several bacterial proteins and in the mammalian proteins glutathione peroxidase (GPX), selenoprotein P and Type I iodothyronine 5' deiodinase (5'DI). Previous analyses in bacteria have suggested that a stem-loop structure involving the UGA codon and adjacent sequences is necessary and sufficient for selenocysteine incorporation into formate dehydrogenase and glycine reductase. We used the recently cloned 5'DI to investigate selenoprotein synthesis in eukaryotes. We show that successful incorporation of selenocysteine into this enzyme requires a specific 3' untranslated (3'ut) segment of about 200 nucleotides, which is found in both rat and human 5'DI messenger RNAs. These sequences are not required for expression of a cysteine-mutant deiodinase. Although there is little primary sequence similarity between the 3'ut regions of these mRNAs and those encoding GPX, the 3'ut sequences of rat GPX can substitute for the 5'DI sequences in directing selenocysteine insertion. Computer analyses predict similar stem-loop structures in the 3'ut regions of the 5'DI and GPX mRNAs. Limited mutations in these structures reduce or eliminate their capacity to permit 5'DI translation. These results identify a 'selenocysteine-insertion sequence' motif in the 3'ut region of these mRNAs that is essential for successful translation of 5'DI, presumably GPX, and possibly other eukaryotic selenocysteine-containing proteins. 
Epilepsy surgery in the posterior cortex. Fourteen (74%) of 19 patients obtained a significant reduction in seizures after posterior corticectomy; 6 (32%) were seizure-free over a median follow-up of 3.7 years (range, 1 to 14 years). Surgery included limited resections of the occipital lobe in 16 patients, posterior temporal region in 11, and posterior portion of parietal lobe in 7. Surgical failure related to probable multiple areas of epileptogenesis (4 patients), or limited resections (2 patients) to preserve visual fields (2 patients) and to avoid dyslexia (1 patient). Of 14 patients without a complete hemianopia preoperatively, 6 (43%) developed a new or increased visual field deficit, 2 (14%) of which were hemianopia. Four (36%) of 11 occipital lobe resections resulted in a new or increased visual field deficit: quadrantanopia in 3 and hemianopia in 1. Visual phenomena were the most common initial ictal symptoms, occurring in 13 (68%) of the 19 patients. Twelve patients had complex partial seizures: in 2, always without warning; in 7, always following an aura, usually visual; and in 3 patients, with or without warning. Scalp electroencephalography identified the origin of most recorded seizures in 12 (63%) of the 19 patients. A principal interictal spike focus appeared in 15 patients (79%), and always correlated with the epileptogenic lobe as defined by scalp and/or subdural-recorded seizures (14 patients) or by clinical analysis and computed tomography (1 patient). 
Mitochondrial DNA and Parkinson's disease. Two major lines of evidence support the hypothesis that an impairment of mitochondrial function may underlie neuronal death in Parkinson's disease. First, the neurotoxicity of the parkinsonism-inducing compound 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is due to the generation of its 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) metabolite in the central nervous system; the toxicity of MPP+ is likely to result from its ability to block mitochondrial electron flow at the level of complex I. Second, recent studies have revealed a deficiency of mitochondrial complex I activity in the brain as well as other tissues of parkinsonian patients. This enzyme activity reduction might be explained by a defect in one or more of the genes coding for the subunits of complex I. Since seven of these genes are localized in the mitochondrial genome, it is conceivable that abnormal mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) might play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The entire sequence of the human mitochondrial genome is known, and human mtDNA can be isolated and rapidly analyzed using techniques such as the polymerase chain reaction. Therefore, identification of an easily detectable mtDNA alteration might ultimately be used as a marker for the diagnosis and screening of Parkinson's disease. 
Prevention of arterial reocclusion after thrombolysis with recombinant lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor BACKGROUND. This study was designed to determine whether arterial reocclusion after thrombolysis can be prevented by lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor (LACI), a physiological inhibitor of tissue factor-induced coagulation mediated by the extrinsic pathway. METHODS AND RESULTS. Thrombosis was induced in femoral arteries of anesthetized dogs with the use of anodal current to elicit extensive vascular injury and formation of platelet-rich thrombi in one artery and with thrombogenic copper wire to elicit fibrin-rich thrombi without appreciable vascular injury in the contralateral artery. Recanalization of both vessels was induced with t-PA (1.7 mg/kg i.v. over 1 hour) and verified with Doppler flow probes. Reocclusion occurred within 2 hours in seven of seven arteries with electrical injury-induced thrombosis and in four of seven arteries with copper wire-induced thrombosis in the absence of LACI. In dogs given infusions of recombinant DNA-produced LACI (225 micrograms/kg over 15 minutes, followed by 4 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) after completion of the infusion of t-PA, no reocclusion occurred during the 2-hour interval of observation in any of the five arteries subjected to electrical injury (p less than 0.001), and cyclic partial occlusions were nearly abolished (0.4 +/- 0.4/hr in LACI-treated dogs compared with 13.7 +/- 5.5/hr in saline-treated dogs, p less than 0.0001). In contrast, reocclusion occurred in two of five arteries with indwelling copper wires, and cyclic partial occlusions were unaffected despite LACI. LACI prolonged the partial thromboplastin time modestly (1.7 +/- 0.2 x baseline) but did not affect platelet counts or aggregation assessed ex vivo. CONCLUSIONS. Inhibition of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation with LACI prevents thrombotic arterial reocclusion after thrombolysis in vessels subjected to extensive vascular injury. Our results demonstrate that activation of the extrinsic pathway plays a critical role in thrombotic reocclusion and that LACI provides a highly targeted approach to facilitate sustained recanalization without directly inhibiting platelets. 
Common reactions to transfusions. A blood transfusion is a special kind of transplantation, with the transfer of living tissue from one person to another. Reactions can occur with as little as 10 to 15 ml of incompatible blood. The onset of a reaction may be misleading or delayed, and its detection requires astute assessment. Responsibility for recognition of a transfusion reaction lies with the transfusionist, who is often a nurse. The following types of response can occur: hemolytic reactions, transfusion-induced graft-versus-host disease, hemoglobinuria, purpura, fever, circulatory overload, thrombophlebitis, urticaria, hyperkalemia, asymptomatic hemoglobinuria, pulmonary edema, and allergic and anaphylactic reactions. Critical care nurses need to be aware of the dangers of blood and blood product transfusions and to be prepared to react quickly. 
Lipid cyst: classic and atypical appearances. Lipid cysts, a specific type of fat necrosis, frequently have a pathognomonic appearance on radiographs. This consists of a lucent lesion surrounded by a smooth rim that may or not be calcified. Occasionally, lipid cysts with unusual mammographic appearances are encountered. An appreciation of some of these appearances may prevent unnecessary biopsies. 
Motor neuron disease in a patient with a monoclonal IgMk directed against GM1, GD1b, and high-molecular-weight neural-specific glycoproteins. In a patient with motor neuron disease and benign IgMk monoclonal gammopathy, the M protein reacted with the glycolipids GM1, GD1b, and asialo GM1 and, by immunoblot, with some high-molecular-weight neural-specific glycoproteins. The main reactive bands had an approximate molecular weight of 250 and 400 kd, were most concentrated in the spinal cord, and were also bound by the lectin peanut agglutinin. The presence of the Ga1(beta 1-3)Ga1NAc epitope on these neural-specific glycoproteins may help to explain the selective neurological impairment of the patient. 
Symptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux, abnormal oesophageal acid exposure, and mucosal acid sensitivity are three separate, though related, aspects of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. The Bernstein test has been used as a test of oesophageal acid sensitivity for over 30 years but its clinical value has been challenged by the advent of ambulatory pH monitoring. Furthermore, the relation between mucosal acid sensitivity, symptomatic reflux, and abnormal oesophageal acid exposure time is unclear. This study examined the relation between these three parameters in patients referred for pH monitoring with unexplained chest pain or heartburn. Fifty consecutive patients were studied - nine with non-cardiac chest pain and 41 with a history of heartburn. Symptomatic reflux was defined as a greater than or equal to 50% temporal association between pain episodes and reflux events (pH less than 4) during pH monitoring. A positive acid perfusion test (in which the patient's usual symptoms were evoked by acid, though not saline) had a 100% sensitivity, 73% specificity, and 81% accuracy for the detection of symptomatic reflux. All 10 patients with symptomatic reflux during pH monitoring had evidence of mucosal acid sensitivity. A negative acid perfusion test made symptomatic reflux unlikely. However, symptomatic reflux or a positive acid perfusion test, or both, were found in some patients with a normal oesophageal acid exposure time during pH monitoring. Mucosal acid sensitivity, abnormal oesophageal acid exposure time, and symptomatic reflux should be regarded as separate, though related aspects of reflux disease. The Bernstein test is simple, safe, and easily performed. A positive test helps to identify an oesophageal cause of symptoms, particularly in patients in whom other aspects of 'gastro-oesophageal reflux disease' are absent, or who do not have symptoms during pH monitoring. 
Relationship between plasma atrial natriuretic factor and urinary kallikrein excretion in essential hypertensives. In order to seek possible relationships between renal kallikrein and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), we measured urinary kallikrein (UK) and ANF in 84 normal subjects (NS) and in 104 uncomplicated essential hypertensives (HP). Atrial natriuretic factor was significantly higher in HP than in NS (38.5 +/- 1.3 vs 29.0 +/- 1.3 pg/mL, P less than .01), whereas UK was significantly lower in HP than in NS (11.1 +/- 0.9 v 15.3 +/- 0.6 nkatal/24 h, P less than .01). Calculating the 95% of the percentile distribution of the single values of UK in the group of NS we were able to show that 24 out of 104 HP had a UK which fell below the lowest limit (4.5 nkat/24 h) of the normal range. We therefore divided our HP into two subgroups: patients with normal kallikrein excretion (NK) (n = 80; mean UK 13.8 +/- 0.8 nkat/24 h) and patients with low kallikrein excretion (LK) (n = 24; mean UK 2.3 +/- 0.3 nkat/24 h). Normal kallikrein patients had a mean plasma ANF value of 31.9 +/- 1.2 pg/mL which was almost superimposable to that found in NS; on the contrary, the mean plasma level of ANF in LK patients (50.7 +/- 2.2 pg/mL) was significantly higher than that measured in NK patients and in NS (P less than .01 v NK patients and NS, respectively). Since a low urinary kallikrein excretion may represent a marker of an impaired production of renal kallikrein, the high levels of ANF found in the LK subgroup could be the result of a compensatory response of the atrium attempting to maintain sodium and volume homeostasis. 
Norepinephrine response to exercise of rats with a chronic myocardial infarction. Plasma and tissue norepinephrine (NE) concentrations were determined at rest and after 45 min of swimming in rats with a surgically induced myocardial infarction (MI) and in rats having undergone a sham operation (SHAM). The MI rats had moderate-sized infarcts and demonstrated decreases in maximal O2 uptake (VO2max) that are consistent with the contention that the animals possessed a significant amount of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and chronic heart failure (CHF). Plasma NE concentrations measured at rest were not significantly different between the SHAM and MI groups of rats, although a strong trend was found for the plasma NE concentrations to be elevated in the MI group. The plasma NE responses to 45 min of swimming at the same absolute submaximal workload were similar in the two groups of rats in light of the fact that the MI group of rats exercised at a greater percentage of their VO2max when compared with their SHAM counterparts. Exercise produced significant reductions in the NE concentrations of the diaphragm, vastus lateralis, red portion of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and vastus intermedius muscles for both the SHAM and MI groups of rats. In addition, the NE concentrations measured in both the soleus and red portion of the gastrocnemius muscle were significantly greater in the MI rats when compared with their SHAM counterparts for both rest and exercise conditions. The results from the present study support the hypothesis that the sympathetic response to exercise is either unchanged or attenuated in MI rats that have a significant amount of LV dysfunction and CHF. 
A phase IA trial of sequential administration recombinant DNA-produced interferons: combination recombinant interferon gamma and recombinant interferon alfa in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. This study investigated the effects of sequentially administered recombinant interferon gamma (rIFN gamma) and recombinant interferon alfa (rIFN alpha) in 36 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). rIFN alpha was subcutaneously administered daily for 70 days at dosages that varied (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 x 10(6) U/m2) across four cohorts of patients. Within each cohort of patients receiving a given dose of rIFN alpha, three subsets of patients received either 30, 300, or 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. rIFN gamma was administered intravenously for 5 days every third week, 6 hours prior to administration of rIFN alpha. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) included constitutional symptoms, leukopenia, nephrotic syndrome with acute renal failure, hypotension associated with death, and congestive heart failure. DLT was related more often to the rIFN alpha dose level than to rIFN gamma dose level. Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 10 x 10(6) U/m2 rIFN alpha and 1,000 micrograms/m2 rIFN gamma. Six patients failed to complete a minimum of 21 days of therapy due to toxicity or rapid progression of disease. Clinical responses were seen in eight of 30 assessable patients. Two patients experienced complete remission and have remained in complete remission 20+ and 22+ months. An additional six patients have shown partial responses for 4 to 18+ months. One patient in partial remission continues to show slow regression of pulmonary and liver lesions off therapy with rIFNs. Clinical responses have remained durable for patients with complete remissions and patients with partial remissions. The results of this study suggest that toxicities associated with combination rIFN therapy can be reduced by administering these agents sequentially as opposed to simultaneously. 
Evidence that genetic emphysema in tight-skin mice is not caused by neutrophil elastase. Mutant tight-skin mice that had severe pulmonary emphysema were crossed with beige mice that contained neutrophils deficient in elastase activity. The resultant tight skin-beige cross mice were deficient in neutrophil elastase activity, yet they were still afflicted with the same degree of severe emphysema as the tight-skin mice. The results indicate that neutrophil elastase does not cause the emphysematous lesions found in tight-skin mice. 
Analysis of morbidity and mortality rates in right hepatectomy with the preoperative APACHE II score. Morbidity and mortality rates in 70 patients who underwent major liver resection for liver tumors (primary and metastatic) were determined and correlated with the preoperative APACHE II score. Patients were divided into three groups according to their preoperative APACHE II score: low (0 to 3), mid (4 to 7), and high (8 and above). A higher score was closely correlated with increased postoperative morbidity and operative mortality rates. The group with low scores had a postoperative morbidity rate of 34% and a mortality rate of 0%, the group with mid scores had a postoperative morbidity rate of 54% and a mortality rate of 3%, and the group with high scores had a postoperative morbidity rate of 80% and a mortality rate of 20%. Age did not correlate with morbidity. It was therefore postulated that morbidity and mortality rates were related to the combination of points for abnormal physiologic variables and points for chronic health, or APACHE II score minus points for age. As the combination of these points increases the postoperative morbidity and operative mortality rates increase significantly (from 24% in the 0-point group to 69% in the greater than or equal to 3-point group). Also the two deaths occurred in the group with 3 or more points. The preoperative APACHE II score may be used by clinicians to evaluate before surgery the risk of postoperative morbidity and death in elective major liver surgery. 
The feeding pharyngostomy: an alternative approach to enteral feeding. We present a six-year retrospective review of feeding pharyngostomies as performed in this department. The indications, technique and complications of this procedure are discussed. 
Randomized, controlled trial comparing long-term sulfonamide therapy to ventilation tubes for otitis media with effusion. Several studies have indicated that either the surgical insertion of ventilation tubes (VTs) or long-term treatment with sulfonamide-based antibacterials is effective in the management of otitis media with effusion (OME; otherwise known as serous otitis media, secretory otitis media, and glue ear) when compared with a no-treatment control or placebo. This controlled trial is the first to compare directly the effectiveness of these two treatments for long-standing OME. Outcome variables are treatment success rates, hearing thresholds, recurrent acute otitis media episodes, and side effects of medication or complications of VT placement. One hundred twenty-five children (aged 2.5 to 7 years) who met the usual indications for surgery (long-standing [greater than 3 months] OME and conductive hearing loss) were randomly assigned to "medical" treatment (sulfisoxazole 75 mg/kg per day for 6 months) or "surgical" treatment (bilateral insertion of VTs). Subjects underwent pure-tone audiometry (500, 1000, 2000, 4000 Hz) and otomicroscopic examination at 2, 4, 6, 12, and 18 months. A significantly greater proportion of medical subjects (67%) than surgical subjects (48%) were treatment failures at 6, 12, or 18 months (P = .0208). Surgical subjects had significantly better hearing at 2 and 4 months (P values less than .01) but not at 6, 12, and 18 months (P values greater than .2). A significantly greater proportion of surgical subjects (50%) experienced complications of treatment than did medical subjects (9%) (P less than .001). Thirty-three percent of candidates for VT placement did not require surgery when treated with a 6-month course of sulfisoxazole. 
Randomised study of antiepileptic drug withdrawal in patients in remission. Medical Research Council Antiepileptic Drug Withdrawal Study Group A prospective multicentre randomised study of continued antiepileptic treatment vs slow withdrawal was conducted in 1013 patients who had been free of seizures for at least 2 years. Comparison of randomised and eligible, but non-randomised, patients suggests the results should be applicable to a wider patient population. By 2 years after randomisation, 78% of patients in whom treatment was continued and 59% of those in whom it was withdrawn remained seizure free, but thereafter the differences between the two groups diminished. Non-compliance with continued treatment accounted for only a small proportion of the risk to the group continuing with treatment. The most important factors determining outcome were longer seizure-free periods (reducing the risk) and more than one antiepileptic drug and a history of tonic-clonic seizures (increasing the risk). Other factors (eg, history of neonatal seizures, specific electroencephalographic features) seemed to have smaller effects, but even in such a large study the confidence intervals for these observations were wide. 
Gallbladder and pancreatic metastases from bilateral renal carcinoma presenting with hematobilia and anemia. A case of bilateral metachronous renal cell carcinoma with gallbladder and pancreatic metastases, presenting with hematobilia and anemia is presented. The presentation of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with hematobilia and anemia is previously unreported. This case illustrates (1) the occasionally very long interval between metachronous renal carcinoma; (2) this tumor's propensity to unusual metastases and unpredictable presentation; and (3) the significant palliation which may be achieved by appropriate surgical resection of these metastases. 
Clinical relevance of tumor cell ploidy and N-myc gene amplification in childhood neuroblastoma: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. We assessed tumor cell DNA content (ploidy) and N-myc gene copy number as predictors of long-term disease-free survival in 298 children with neuroblastoma. Diploid tumor stem lines were identified in 101 patients (34%), clonal hyperdiploid abnormalities in 194 (65%), and hypodiploid stem lines in three (1%). In children with widely disseminated tumors at diagnosis (stage D), ploidy had a highly age-dependent influence on prognosis. Among infants (less than 12 months) treated with cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin, hyperdiploidy was closely associated with long-term disease-free survival (greater than 90% of cases), while diploidy invariably predicted early treatment failure (P less than .001). Similarly, in children 12 to 24 months of age who were treated with cisplatin-teniposide and cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin, diploidy uniformly predicted early failure, whereas half of the children with hyperdiploidy achieved long-term disease-free survival (P less than .001). There was no relationship between ploidy and treatment outcome in children older than 24 months with stage D tumors who had a very low probability of long-term disease-free survival (less than 10%). N-myc gene amplification was detected in 37 (25%) of the 147 tumors tested, with the remainder showing single-copy levels of the gene. N-myc gene amplification was more frequent in diploid than in hyperdiploid tumors (23 of 57 v 14 of 87, P = .001) and predicted a high likelihood of early treatment failure. In children younger than 2 years with disseminated neuroblastoma, tumor cell ploidy and N-myc gene copy number provide complementary prognostic information that will distinguish patients who can be cured on current regimens from those who require new treatment strategies. 
Spontaneous internal carotid artery dissection shown by magnetic resonance imaging. We have reported a case of spontaneous dissection of the internal carotid artery, with MRI and angiographic findings. We conclude that MRI is a beneficial noninvasive test for the detection and study of carotid artery dissection. 
Protein C activation following coronary artery occlusion in the in situ porcine heart BACKGROUND. Activated protein C, the body's natural anticoagulant, may play a role in protecting the heart during and following an occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) in the porcine heart. METHODS AND RESULTS. Infusion of 1 unit thrombin over 30 seconds into the LAD of juvenile pigs produced a prolongation of the Xa clotting time (153 +/- 14%) in blood drawn from the anterior interventricular vein (AIV). The action of the anticoagulant was blocked by a polyclonal immunoglobulin G antibody directed against porcine activated protein C. A brief (30 seconds) occlusion of the LAD induced a similar prolongation of the Xa clotting time (138 +/- 11%), which was also blocked by the polyclonal antibody. To determine whether activated protein C helps sustain the heart during and following a 2-minute occlusion, three groups of pigs were studied: 11 controls, six receiving activated porcine protein C, and nine receiving a monoclonal antibody (HPC4) that blocks protein C activation. Relative to the controls, HPC4-treated animals recovered function, as measured by the maximum time derivative of left ventricular pressure and segmental shortening, more slowly and were not able to sustain this recovery. Animals receiving activated protein C recovered more quickly and sustained this recovery. CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that an ischemic insult induces rapid activation of protein C in the coronary microcirulation and that blocking this activation impairs recovery. 
Irregular coronary lesion morphology after thrombolysis predicts early clinical instability After successful thrombolytic treatment for acute myocardial infarction, recurrent ischemia and infarction may occur with little warning. Coronary lesion morphology was analyzed from angiograms performed in 72 consecutive patients at 1 to 8 days after streptokinase treatment for acute myocardial infarction and the data were evaluated in relation to the subsequent clinical course. All patients were clinically stable at the time of angiography and continued to receive heparin infusion for greater than or equal to 4 days after thrombolysis. The infarct-related artery was patent in 55 patients (76%). In the 10 days after angiography, 15 patients developed prolonged episodes of angina at rest; the condition of 4 stabilized with medical treatment, but 11 required urgent medical intervention (coronary angioplasty in 8 and bypass surgery in 3). There were no differences in age, gender, left ventricular function or extent of coronary artery disease between those patients who developed unstable angina and those who had a stable in-hospital course. However, the median plaque ulceration index of the infarct-related lesion was 6.7 (95% confidence limits 6.3, 10) in the 15 patients with an unstable course versus 3.3 (2, 4.4) in those with a stable course (p less than 0.001). There were no differences between the two patient groups in the severity of stenosis, length of diseased segment, symmetry/eccentricity, presence of a shoulder, location at branch point or bend, presence of globular or linear filling defects, contrast staining or collateral supply. These data show that after thrombolysis, the degree of irregularity of the infarct-related artery is a critical determinant of early clinical instability. 
Predominant T cell receptor V gene usage in patients with abnormal clones of B cells. We have examined alpha/beta V gene segment usage of peripheral blood CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, respectively, from patients with multiple myeloma and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, by using T cell receptor (TCR) for antigen monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs). In 7 of 16 patients we found an increase in the usage of various TCR V gene segments. The expansion was confined to either the CD4+ or the CD8+ T-cell subset, except for one patient where an abnormal pattern was observed both within the CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell subsets. In one patient 47%, and in another patient 30% of the CD8+ lymphocytes reacted with alpha V12.1 and beta V6.7 antibodies, respectively. In two other patients 29% and 40% of the CD4+ lymphocytes reacted with beta V6.7 and beta V8.1 antibodies, respectively. We conclude that T cells with a predominant V gene usage is a frequent feature in patients with abnormal clonal B cells of malignant or benign types. T- and B-cell populations are normally clonally linked in regulatory circuits. An abnormal proliferation of B cells might therefore induce, or be regulated by, an expansion of clonal T cells, as suggested by the present results. 
The B-cell antigen receptor of the five immunoglobulin classes. Several proteins associate with surface IgM to form the antigen receptor. We show that just two, the alpha and beta associated chains, are sufficient to reconstitute an IgM surface receptor in fibroblasts. Contrary to expectation, a common alpha chain associates with all five immunoglobulin classes. We propose that B-cell antigen receptors consist of a common alpha/beta heterodimer associated with each immunoglobulin class. But the classes differ both in the glycosylation of their associated alpha chain and in their dependence on alpha/beta for surface transport. 
Case of penetrating orbitocranial injury caused by wood. A case of retained intraorbital and intracerebral wooden foreign body following an orbitocranial penetrating injury through the lower lid of an adult is described. Initial failure to recognise the true nature of the injury led to intracerebral abscess formation and monocular blindness. Diagnosis and management of such cases are discussed. 
Ibuprofen provides longer lasting analgesia than fentanyl after laparoscopic surgery. The authors compared the analgesic efficacy of one dose of oral ibuprofen with that of intravenously administered fentanyl for relief of pain after outpatient laparoscopic surgery. Thirty healthy female patients received either 800 mg of oral ibuprofen preoperatively or 75 micrograms of intravenous fentanyl intraoperatively plus respective intravenous or oral placebos in a randomized, double-blind manner. Patients recorded their degree of pain and nausea in the recovery room, in the same-day surgery stepdown unit, during the ride home, and upon arrival at home. The postanesthesia care nurse recorded the amount of fentanyl and droperidol needed to treat pain and nausea in the recovery room. Patients who received ibuprofen were more comfortable in the stepdown unit (P less than 0.05) and after arrival home (P less than 0.05) than those in the fentanyl group. Additionally, patients who received ibuprofen had lower nausea scores in the step-down unit (P less than 0.05); this may have been related to the lower total fentanyl dose in these patients. The authors conclude that ibuprofen may be a useful alternative to fentanyl for providing postoperative analgesia for outpatient surgery. 
Renal and extra-renal levels of renin mRNA in experimental hypertension. 1. Using a ribonuclease-protection assay, renin mRNA levels were compared in the kidneys, livers, brains, hearts and adrenal glands of two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt hypertensive rats with those of age-matched control rats at 4 weeks ('early') and 20 weeks ('chronic') after clipping, and in the kidneys and adrenal glands of rats treated for 3 weeks with deoxycorticosterone and salt (deoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension) with those of control rats. 2. While marked changes were observed in kidney renin mRNA levels in all three experimental groups compared with their respective controls, in most of the extra-renal tissue studied minimal, if any, difference was seen in renin mRNA levels between the hypertensive and control rats. 3. The findings suggest that in these extra-renal tissues renin gene expression is differently regulated from that in the kidney, and particularly that it is not profoundly affected by changes in the level of circulating angiotensin II. 4. An increase in renin mRNA was observed in the adrenal glands of the 'chronic' Goldblatt rats, which may be of relevance to the maintenance of hypertension in this model. 
Rearrangements of the tal-1 locus as clonal markers for T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Normal and aberrant immune receptor gene assembly each produce site-specific DNA rearrangements in leukemic lymphoblasts. In either case, these rearrangements provide useful clonal markers for the leukemias in question. In the t(1;14)(p34;q11) translocation associated with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), the breakpoints on chromosome 1 interrupt the tal-1 gene. A site-specific deletion interrupts the same gene in an additional 26% of T-ALL. Thus, nearly one-third of these leukemias contain clustered rearrangements of the tal-1 locus. To test whether these rearrangements can serve as markers for residual disease, we monitored four patients with T-ALL; three of the leukemias contained a deleted (tald) and one a translocated (talt) tal-1 allele. These alleles were recognized by a sensitive amplification/hybridization assay. tald alleles were found in the blood of one patient during the 4th mo of treatment but not thereafter. Using a quantitative assay to measure the fraction of tald alleles in DNA extracts, we estimated that this month 4 sample contained 150 tald copies per 10(6) genome copies. The patient with t(1;14)(p34;q11) (talt) leukemia developed a positive assay during the 20th mo of treatment. By standard criteria, all four patients remain in complete remission 11-20 mo into treatment. We conclude that tal-1 rearrangements provide useful clonal markers for approximately 30% of T-ALLs. 
Effect of omeprazole on duodenal ulcer-associated antral gastritis and Helicobacter pylori. This study set out to investigate the effects of omeprazole or ranitidine on the progression of antral gastritis and Helicobacter pylori in patients with active duodenal ulcer. A double-blind, double-dummy trial was performed in 270 patients, 241 of whom were studied histologically for the presence of H. pylori. Patients were randomized to receive omeprazole, 10 mg every morning, omeprazole, 20 mg every morning, or ranitidine, 150 mg twice a day, for four weeks. Endoscopy was performed on entry and at weekly intervals during the study; at least two antral biopsies were taken on each occasion to assess the activity and degree of chronic inflammation, as reflected by the degree of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration and mononuclear cell infiltration, respectively. Biopsy specimens also were assessed histologically for H. pylori. The sex, age and maximal acid output were comparable in the three treatment groups. The percentages of patients showing an improvement in the activity of gastritis in the four consecutive weeks of treatment were 9%, 40%, 51%, and 53% for omeprazole, 10 mg (N = 78); 14%, 42%, 49%, and 53% for omeprazole, 20 mg (N = 81); and 2%, 23%, 30%, and 33% for ranitidine, 150 mg twice a day (N = 82) (life table analysis gave P less than 0.01 for both omeprazole regimens compared with ranitidine). The degree of chronic inflammation showed similar changes. The density of H. pylori decreased significantly after treatment with omeprazole, 10 mg or 20 mg, (both, P less than 0.00001) but not with ranitidine. 
Cytoprotection and stress ulceration. The stomach possesses many mechanisms for protection against stress ulceration. The gastric microcirculation, prostaglandins, mucus secretion, epithelial cell renewal, and muscle tone are factors involved in gastric cytoprotection. Therapy is partially directed at augmenting these natural physiologic defense mechanisms to prevent and promote healing of stress ulceration. Drugs such as sucralfate, carbenoxalone, colloidal bismuth, and prostaglandins are used. Stress ulceration is an important cause of upper gastrointestinal tract hemorrhage in postoperative and critically ill patients in the intensive care unit setting. Preventive therapy includes neutralization of gastric acid by antacids, suppression of gastric acid secretion by H2-receptor blockers, administration of cytoprotective agents, and correction of the underlying stress state. Active bleeding requires accurate diagnosis by gastroscopy. Additional therapy may be necessary, including intra-arterial administration of vasopressin and occasionally surgery. Dieulafoy's lesion is an unusual stress-related cause for upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The area of mucosal injury is minute but underneath lies a large submucosal gastric artery. It can cause massive bleeding and is often missed at initial gastroscopy. The pathogenesis of Dieulafoy's lesion is complex and the mainstay of therapy has been surgical. Ligation of the vessel, wedge resection, or proximal gastric resection is performed. Therapeutic endoscopy with endoscopic cauterization or injection has changed the approach to this lesion. 
Echocardiographic prediction of left ventricular volume after myocardial infarction. Left ventricular volume is a strong determinant of survival after acute myocardial infarction. The aim of this study was to determine which clinical and echocardiographic criteria assessed early after myocardial infarction would predict later left ventricular dilation. Forty-eight patients with uncomplicated transmural myocardial infarction had echocardiography 5 to 10 days after myocardial infarction and assessment of clinical variables including peak creatine kinase and sum of electrocardiographic ST segment elevation. Left ventricular dimensions were measured from the echocardiogram in the parasternal view and also in the apical four and two chamber views at the level of the mitral leaflets, papillary muscles and apex. A cardiac wall motion score was obtained by segmental analysis of the apical views. Echocardiographic left ventricular volume was measured after 1 year from the apical views with use of a Simpson's rule method. Initial clinical and echocardiographic variables were correlated with the left ventricular volume at 1 year. There was a significant relation between the initial four and two chamber end-diastolic dimensions and the left ventricular volume at 1 year, particularly for dimensions measured at the apical level (four chamber R2 = 0.66, p = 0.0001, two chamber R2 = 0.61, p = 0.0001). Other clinical variables, parasternal left ventricular dimensions and cardiac wall motion score were not significantly related to left ventricular volume. A powerful three variable model obtained by multiple regression and including the initial two chamber apical dimension, cardiac wall motion score and body surface area accounted for 82% of the variation in left ventricular volume at 1 year. 
Upbeat and downbeat nystagmus occurring successively in a patient with posterior medullary haemorrhage. In a patient with posterior medullary haemorrhage, first upbeat and later downbeat nystagmus occurred in the primary position. The lesion was limited to the posterior and medial part of the medulla. Clinical and electro-oculographic examination first showed upbeat nystagmus in the primary position and upgaze, with downbeat nystagmus in downgaze. Two and a half months later, there was downbeat nystagmus in the primary position and downgaze and upbeat nystagmus in upgaze. 
Hyperinsulinemia or increased sympathetic drive as links for obesity and hypertension. The association of obesity with hypertension has been amply demonstrated in cross-sectional, longitudinal, and dietary-intervention studies, but the mechanisms remain enigmatic. Both conditions are independently characterized by similar metabolic alterations, i.e., glucose intolerance, dyslipoproteinemia, elevated serum uric acid, and inadequate Na+ transport. Obesity, hypertension, and these metabolic alterations are associated with hyperinsulinemia/insulin resistance. The degree of these alterations is lowest in lean hypertensives, intermediate in obese normotensives, and greatest in obese hypertensives, but mortality risk is highest in lean hypertensives. This apparent discrepancy may be related to the divergent hemodynamic characteristics, possibly indicating different etiology, of lean and obese hypertensives, i.e., contracted blood volume, increased total vascular peripheral resistance, and normal sympathetic drive in the former, expanded blood volume, normal peripheral resistance, and increased sympathetic drive in the latter. Current knowledge suggests that the interrelationships of obesity and hypertension with the metabolic alterations could be mediated by high carbohydrate and fat consumption and low physical activity, resulting in obesity and separate pathways in hyperinsulinemia and increased sympathetic drive, leading to a double vicious cycle. In one, hyperinsulinemia and the consequent insulin resistance would compound one another. In the second, the increasing hyperinsulinemia would increasingly stimulate the sympathetic nervous system. This double vicious cycle could result in increasing hemodynamic and metabolic derangements causing hypertension, diabetes, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). The association of lean hypertension with ASCVD may be through other mechanisms, e.g., hemodynamic forces on the vascular endothelium. 
Can esmolol manage surgically-induced tachycardia? Bolus esmolol treatment of intra-operative tachycardia due to surgical stimulation. A double-blind, randomised study was conducted to examine the efficacy of a single bolus dose of esmolol in treating surgically-induced tachycardia. Anaesthetic technique was identical in all patients, and consisted of premedication with midazolam and glycopyrronium, induction with thiopentone followed by suxamethonium, tracheal intubation, and maintenance with isoflurane 0.6% (end-tidal) and 60% nitrous oxide in oxygen. Forty-eight patients developed a heart rate of greater than 95 beats/minute or 20% more than pre-induction values at an average time of 34 minutes after tracheal intubation and received placebo (15 patients), esmolol 50 mg (16 patients), or esmolol 100 mg (17 patients). Controlled intervention was instituted if heart rate or blood pressure was not adequate. Both 50 and 100 mg of esmolol resulted in lower heart rates compared to placebo (p less than 0.05), with no difference between the two esmolol groups (p greater than 0.05). Patients who received placebo had more episodes of medical intervention than those given esmolol (p less than 0.05). No adverse effects occurred in any patient. 
Inhibition by a new bisphosphonate (AHBuBP) of bone resorption induced by the MBT-2 tumor of mice. A new bisphosphonate, 4-amino-1-hydroxybuthylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate (AHBuBP), was compared with 3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate (AHPrBP) and 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate (HEBP) in terms of its effect on tumor-induced osteolysis using a bladder tumor in mice (MBT-2). Tumor cells were inoculated subcutaneously (SC) over the calvaria in mice, resulting in a local tumor causing fragmentation of the bone. The tumor-induced osteolysis associated with osteoclasts proliferation was accompanied with reactive new bone formation. This osteolysis was evaluated by measuring the increased area of bone resorption in reduced opacity to radiograph and histologic study. The results showed the following sequence of potency: AHBuBP greater than AHPrBP = HEBP. This inhibition was obtained with no apparent effect on the growth of the MBT-2 tumor. The authors conclude that AHBuBP appears to be an interesting new bisphosphonate with possible clinical application. 
Strategies for diagnosis and treatment of children at risk for occult bacteremia: clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Decision analysis was used to evaluate the probable health benefits, complications, and costs of six management strategies for febrile children at risk for occult bacteremia. The strategy that combined blood culture with empiric oral antibiotic treatment for all patients was predicted to prevent the highest number of major infections and to have the lowest cost per major infection prevented. The strategy that combined a leukocyte count and blood culture for all patients, followed by empiric antibiotic treatment for those with leukocyte count greater than or equal to 10,000/mm3, had almost equal cost and clinical effectiveness and avoided many antibiotic complications. Culture of blood specimens from all patients and no empiric treatment constituted the third most clinically effective intervention but was the least cost-effective in this model. Giving a 2-day oral course of amoxicillin without testing had the lowest average cost per febrile patient but was the least clinically effective intervention. However, the low degree of effectiveness of empiric treatment alone was based on the assumption that oral amoxicillin therapy was only 20% effective in preventing major infections after bacteremia. At higher estimates of effectiveness, treatment alone became a more viable strategy. We conclude that approaches which combine blood culture with empiric antibiotic treatment are the most clinically effective and the most cost-effective strategies for children at risk for occult bacteremia. 
The consistency of pulse frequencies and pulse patterns of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) used by chronic pain patients. This study records the consistency of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) pulse frequency and pulse pattern used by 13 chronic patients over a 1 year period. The results show that patients prefer specific pulse frequencies and pulse patterns unique to the individual and that they turn to such frequencies and patterns on subsequent treatment sessions. Pulse frequencies and pulse patterns were not related to the cause and site of pain, a finding consistent with previous study in this laboratory. This observation, coupled with the large variability in pulse frequencies and pulse patterns used between individuals, implies that patients prefer such frequencies and patterns for reasons of comfort which may not be related to mechanisms specific to the pain system. 
Intensive liver care and management of acute hepatic failure. In describing acute liver failure, the term fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) is used to denote patients with the most rapid progression, normally defined as the onset of encephalopathy within eight weeks of the onset of symptoms. For patients with a slower onset of encephalopathy, ranging from eight weeks to six months after the onset of symptoms, late-onset hepatic failure is the term used to reflect the overlap in clinical features with some patients with FHF. The importance of accurately determining the type of acute liver failure results from increasing evidence of an inverse relationship between the tempo of disease progression and the chances of recovery. Prognosis is also dependent on the underlying etiology. Principles of management are as follows: (1) an accurate recognition of the tempo of the hepatic failure--fulminant, late onset, acute on chronic--and the establishment of a likely etiology; (2) early detection and treatment of complications, particularly metabolic acidosis (early), renal failure, cerebral edema, and infection (late); (3) optimization of conditions for regeneration by maintenance of a near normal metabolic milieu (with removal of toxins by various methods of artificial liver support if necessary); and (4) early consideration of an orthotopic liver transplant for those patients in the poor prognosis group. Variations in the natural history and clinical features of acute liver failure (ALF) have led to a number of different classifications and subgroupings. Knowledge of these is important in relation to the assessment of prognosis and is even more important now that transplantation is a therapeutic option. 
High rate of portal thrombosis after splenectomy in patients with esophageal varices and idiopathic portal hypertension. Data on 126 consecutive patients who were admitted to our clinics from January 1979 to May 1989 were scrutinized to assess changes in portal hemodynamics following splenectomy. Two groups were classified: (1) a group of 106 patients with cirrhosis of the liver and (2) a group of 20 patients with idiopathic portal hypertension (IPH). Portal thrombosis was present in five (25.0%) of the 20 patients with IPH and in two (1.8%) of the 106 patients with cirrhosis of the liver. As seen on celiac arteriography, the mean (+/- SD) diameter of the trunk of the splenic artery and vein was 8.99 +/- 1.55 and 16.2 +/- 3.6 mm, respectively, in patients with IPH, while it was 7.94 +/- 1.28 and 14.2 +/- 3.1 mm, respectively, in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. Changes in portal venous pressure were 78.4 +/- 59.4 mm H2O in patients with IPH and 43.5 +/- 38.7 mm H2O in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. There were no significant differences in the maximum level of thrombocytes in patients with IPH or in those patients with cirrhosis of the liver. These events suggest that portal thrombosis can occur with a significantly higher incidence in patients with IPH than in those patients with cirrhosis of the liver after splenectomy, and a decrease in blood flow in the portal vein may be closely linked to the formation of portal thrombosis after splenectomy in patients with IPH. Preoperative examination of portal hemodynamics must be thorough. 
Functioning insulinoma--incidence, recurrence, and long-term survival of patients: a 60-year study. For the 60-year period from 1927 through 1986, we assessed the incidence, recurrence, and long-term survival among all Mayo Clinic patients with histologically confirmed functioning insulinoma. With use of the complete medical record system at Mayo and the comprehensive epidemiologic data base of residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, we found 224 patients in whom an initial pancreatic exploration at Mayo had confirmed the presence of insulinoma. The median age (and range) of these patients at surgical diagnosis was 47 (8 to 82) years, and 59% were female patients. During the study period, eight cases of insulinoma occurred among residents of Olmsted County; their age and gender distributions were similar to those of the total cohort. The incidence of insulinoma among residents of Olmsted County increased during the study period to a stable level during the last 2 decades of 4 cases per 1 million person-years. For the total cohort, 7.6% had multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN I), and 5.8% had malignant insulinoma. The risk of recurrence was greater among patients with MEN I (21% at 10 and 20 years) than in those without MEN I (5% at 10 years and 7% at 20 years). Although survival of the total cohort was not significantly impaired, it was significantly worse than expected for patients with malignant insulinoma (29% versus 88% expected at 10 years postoperatively). We conclude that insulinoma is less rare than previously suspected. After successful surgical removal, the long-term risk of recurrent insulinoma is relatively high in patients with MEN I; for patients with benign disease, the long-term survival is normal. 
Bowel perforation and interstitial cystitis in childhood systemic lupus erythematosus. A 13-year-old girl presented with abdominal pain, fever, dysuria, incontinence and pyuria and was subsequently diagnosed as having systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with extensive gastrointestinal involvement and an associated interstitial cystitis. Despite aggressive therapy with high dose prednisone and cyclophosphamide she developed a small bowel perforation and subsequently died. The combination of bowel symptoms and interstitial cystitis seems unique to the population with SLE, while the separate complication of bowel perforation carries an extremely poor prognosis in this group of patients. 
A comparative analysis of mass transport models in peritoneal dialysis. To better understand the differences in published estimates of peritoneal mass transport coefficients, a comparative analysis of seven mathematical models of peritoneal transport was performed. Uniform investigation involving measurements of solute concentrations and accurate determination of peritoneal dialysate volume was undertaken in twenty-eight 6 hour dwell studies using 3.86% glucose dialysate in non-diabetic patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). The investigated models were all based on the theory of transport across a homogeneous membrane. Diffusive mass transport coefficients (KBD) calculated during a period of dialysate isovolemia served as reference values in the comparative analysis. The evaluation of models involved calculations of transport coefficients and comparison of calculated dialysate-to-plasma concentration ratios (D/P) with experimental D/P. The best fit of theoretically predicted D/P to experimental D/P was obtained with Pyle-Popovich's model, which accounts for both the diffusive (KBD) and convective (sieving coefficient [S]) characteristics of the peritoneal membrane. Garred's model, assuming S = 1, yielded acceptable results for small solutes (except sodium), whereas Henderson's model, in which convective transport is neglected, proved to be surprisingly accurate for KBD for both small solutes (except sodium) and protein. S values (mean +/- SD) calculated using Pyle-Popovich's model were found to be out of the physically interpretable range for glucose (S = -0.38 +/- 0.48) and potassium (S = 1.57 +/- 0.19), and therefore these S values should be treated as phenomenologic rather than physical quantities. 
A new balanced operation for complex gastroesophageal reflux disease. Twenty-seven patients with advanced gastroesophageal reflux disease have been treated with combined transthoracic parietal cell vagotomy and Collis-Nissen fundoplication. Gastric acid analyses (n = 20) obtained preoperatively and 6 months postoperatively demonstrated a significant late reduction in gastric acid output. Twenty-six patients (96%) have experienced relief of gastroesophageal reflux disease at a mean of 13.3 months (range, 6 to 25 months) without postvagotomy symptoms. Transthoracic parietal cell vagotomy may be considered as an adjunct to mechanical surgical control of advanced gastroesophageal reflux disease. 
Loss of heterozygosity for alleles on chromosome II in cervical carcinoma. The HeLa cell (a cervical carcinoma cell line) tumor-suppressor gene has been localized to the long arm of chromosome 11 by molecular genetic studies of nontumorigenic and tumorigenic hybrids derived from normal chromosome 11 x HeLa cell fusions. In the present study, 33 primary cervical carcinoma samples were analyzed using chromosome 11-specific polymorphic DNA markers. The RFLP analysis indicated a somatic loss of chromosome 11 heterozygosity in 10 (30%) of the primary tumors. Preferential loss of the long arm of the chromosome was observed in two of the primary tumors. In addition, at least eight-fold amplification of sequences in the q13 region, including those coding for the fibroblast growth factor-related gene (int-2), was observed in one of the primary tumors. These results suggest a possible role for gene(s) localized to chromosome 11, possibly that localized to the long arm in the development and/or progression of cervical carcinomas. 
A hepatitis B virus mutant associated with an epidemic of fulminant hepatitis BACKGROUND. A nosocomial outbreak of fulminant hepatitis B occurred in five patients in Haifa, Israel. Previous investigations identified the suspected source as a carrier of hepatitis B surface antigen who was positive for antibodies to hepatitis B e antigen and had chronic liver disease. We examined the strain of hepatitis B virus (HBV) that caused this epidemic, in order to identify specific mutations in the precore or core region. METHODS. The presence of HBV was identified by polymerase-chain-reaction amplification of viral DNA in serum from the source patient, the five patients with fulminant hepatitis B, and five controls with acute, self-limited hepatitis B. The amplified viral HBV DNA samples were then cloned and sequenced. RESULTS. Sequence analysis of viral DNA established that the same HBV mutant with two mutations in the precore region was present in the source patient and the five patients with fulminant hepatic failure. This HBV mutant had significant sequence divergence from other known HBV subtypes in the X, precore, and core regions. Cloned HBV DNA derived from a hospitalized patient who had subclinical hepatitis B at the same time as the outbreak and from four other control subjects with acute, self-limited hepatitis B all contained the wild-type sequence in the precore region. CONCLUSIONS. In the outbreak we studied, a mutant hepatitis B viral strain was transmitted from a common source to five patients who subsequently died of fulminant hepatitis B infection. Naturally occurring viral mutations hepatitis B infection. Naturally occurring viral mutations in the HBV genome may predispose the infected host to more severe liver injury. 
The neurofibroma in von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis has a unicellular origin. von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis (NF1) is the most common hereditary syndrome predisposing to neoplasia. NF1 is an autosomal dominant disease caused by a single gene which maps to chromosome 17q11.2. The most common symptomatic manifestation of NF1 is the benign neurofibroma. Our previous studies of tumors in NF1, studies which detected a loss of heterozygosity for DNA markers from the NF1 region of chromosome 17 in malignant tumors, did not detect a loss in neurofibromas. We report here that a more extensive study, including the analysis of neurofibromas from 19 unrelated NF1 patients by using seven probes, failed to detect a single instance of loss of heterozygosity. This finding suggests that neurofibromas are either polyclonal or monoclonal in origin but arise by a mechanism different from that of NF1 malignancies. In order to investigate the first possibility, we analyzed neurofibromas from female NF1 patients by using an X chromosome-specific probe, from the phosphoglycerokinase (PGK) gene, which detects an RFLP. The detected alleles carry additional recognition sites for the methylation-sensitive enzyme HpaII, so that the allele derived from the active X chromosome is digested by HpaII while the one from the hypermethylated, inactive X chromosome is not. We analyzed neurofibromas from 30 unrelated females with NF1. Eight patients were heterozygous for the PGK RFLP. By this assay, neurofibromas from all eight appeared monoclonal in origin. These results suggest that benign neurofibromas in NF1 arise by a mechanism that is different from that of malignant tumors. 
Percutaneous endoscopic jejunostomy in a patient with previous esophagectomy. Establishment of a percutaneous endoscopic jejunostomy via direct jejunal puncture was accomplished in a 45-year-old woman five years after a partial esophagectomy with cervical esophagogastrostomy for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. The patient had recurrence of the cancer at the anastomotic site with subsequent inability to eat, necessitating a feeding tube for prolonged enteral nutrition. Although percutaneous puncture of the jejunum has been previously described, it has been limited to patients who had undergone partial or complete gastrectomies with Bilroth II anastomoses. This case report of direct endoscopic jejunal tube placement in a patient after esophagectomy further establishes this procedure as a viable alternative to surgically placed feeding tubes in patients with altered gastric anatomy. 
Treatment of migraine attacks with sumatriptan. The Subcutaneous Sumatriptan International Study Group BACKGROUND. The headache in migraine attacks may be caused by dilatation of certain cranial arteries or arteriovenous anastomoses, by neurogenic dural plasma extravasation, or by both of these mechanisms. Sumatriptan, a novel selective agonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like receptors, blocks these phenomena. We investigated its efficacy in migraine. METHODS. We studied 639 patients with migraine attacks in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group clinical trial. We assessed the effect of subcutaneous injections of 6 or 8 mg of sumatriptan or placebo on the severity of headache and associated migrane symptoms 30, 60, and 120 minutes after treatment. Patients who were not free of pain after 60 minutes subsequently received placebo if they had initially received placebo or 8 mg of sumatriptan, and 6 mg of sumatriptan or placebo if they had initially received 6 mg of sumatriptan. RESULTS. After 60 minutes, the severity of headache was decreased in 72 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 68 to 76 percent) of the 422 patients given 6 mg of sumatriptan, 79 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 71 to 87 percent) of the 109 patients given 8 mg of sumatriptan, and 25 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 17 to 33 percent) of the 105 patients given placebo (data on 3 patients could not be evaluated). As compared with the placebo group, 47 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 38 to 57 percent) more patients who had received 6 mg of sumatriptan and 54 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 43 to 65 percent) more patients who had received 8 mg of sumatriptan had a decrease in the severity of headache (P less than 0.001 for both comparisons). After 120 minutes, 86 to 92 percent of the 511 patients treated with sumatriptan (202 assigned to 6 mg plus placebo, 203 to 6 mg plus 6 mg, and 106 to 8 mg plus placebo) had improvement in the severity of headache, as compared with only 37 percent of the 104 patients who received placebo once or twice (P less than 0.001 for all comparisons). Twenty-one patients were excluded from the analysis because of missing data (19) or protocol violations (2). The response rates did not differ significantly among the sumatriptan regimens. Adverse events were minor and transient in all groups. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that a single 6-mg dose of sumatriptan given subcutaneously is a highly effective, rapid-acting, and well-tolerated treatment for migrane attacks. The administration of a second dose 60 minutes later to patients not responding well to an initial dose affords little additional benefit. 
Differential modulation by the stress axis of ethanol withdrawal seizure expression in WSP and WSR mice. Withdrawal from both acute and chronic ethanol (EtOH) exposure is associated with increased neural excitability and increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. There is some evidence that glucocorticoids are necessary for EtOH withdrawal seizure expression. Lines of mice that were selected for severe (WSP) and minimal (WSR) EtOH withdrawal (as estimated from handling-induced convulsion scores) have been shown to differ in their stress response following an acute dose of EtOH. In this study we provide evidence that these lines of mice also differ in their sensitivity to the excitatory effects of glucocorticoids. EtOH withdrawal seizures of WSP mice were significantly increased by chronic and acute corticosterone treatment, whereas those of the WSR mice were unaffected. Neural excitability was decreased in the WSP mice when aminoglutethimide, a glucocorticoid synthesis blocker, was administered. Thus, it appears that genetic differences in EtOH withdrawal seizure severity may be due, in part, to differences in sensitivity to the excitatory effects of glucocorticoids. 
Current role of catheter ablative procedures in patients with cardiac arrhythmias. A report for health professionals from the Subcommittee on Electrocardiography and Electrophysiology, American Heart Association. Catheter ablative techniques have assumed an increasingly important role in the treatment of patients with drug-refractory cardiac arrhythmias. Catheter ablation of the AV junction is considered the procedure of choice for management of patients without bypass tracts with drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias. Catheter techniques have been used with increasing frequency in attempts to ablate accessory AV tracts. These techniques currently appear to be less effective than surgical techniques but involve less morbidity and expense. In some centers, accessory pathway ablation using catheter techniques is the procedure of first choice in selected patients with drug-refractory tachycardia mediated by an accessory pathway. Catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia should be reserved for patients with mappable ventricular tachycardia who are not candidates for cardiac electrosurgery or insertion of an automatic defibrillator. The development of more flexible catheters and more manageable energy delivery systems holds promise for more effective catheter techniques. 
A phase I-II trial of induction chemotherapy with carboplatin and fluorouracil in locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma: a report from the UCL-Oncology Group, Belgium. Eighty-three patients (median age, 56 years and Karnofsky performance status greater than or equal to 70) were treated with carboplatin (Carbo) and fluorouracil (5Fu) for stage III and IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). 5Fu (1 g/m2/d) was administered from day 1 to 4 by continuous infusion. Carbo was given on day 1 and, in order to evaluate its maximum-tolerated dose (MTD), the dose level was progressively increased from 250 mg/m2 to 450 mg/m2. The effectiveness of this association and its potential role in local control were also evaluated. Three patients received Carbo at a dose of 250 mg/m2, 13 received 300 mg/m2, one received 330 mg/m2, 12 received 350 mg/m2, six received 375 mg/m2, 26 received 400 mg/m2, 18 received 420 mg/m2, and four received 450 mg/m2. Two (13 of 83) or three courses (64 of 83), repeated every 4 weeks, were administered. The overall (primary tumor and node) response and complete response (CR) rates were 33% and 14%, respectively. For primary tumor, the response rate (RR) was 57% with 32% CR and 18% pathologic complete response (PCR); the RR was higher for patients with oropharyngeal tumor (76%, P = .037) and for patients treated with Carbo greater than or equal to 350 mg/m2 (65%, P = .02); the tumor size (T1 + T2 v T3 + T4) was a good prognostic factor for RR (90% v 46%, P = .001), CR (65% v 20%, P less than .001), and PCR (45% v 8%, P less than .001). For nodes, the RR was 33% with 11% CR. Grade 3-4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were experienced by 17% and 28% of the patients treated with 420 mg/m2 of Carbo and by 50% of the patients treated with 450 mg/m2. The MTD can be fixed at 420 mg/m2 and the proposed dose at 400 mg/m2. Thirty-eight patients were treated with surgery plus radiotherapy, 33 with radiotherapy alone, and seven with surgery alone. The median follow-up is 12 months. The 18-month disease-free survival (DFS) is 78% for overall complete responders and 39% for the others (P = .04). There is no primary tumor recurrence among the 12 patients with a primary tumor PCR treated by radiotherapy alone for tumor control (median follow-up, 17.3 months). The association of Carbo-5Fu is a safe induction chemotherapy regimen for HNSCC. The proposed dose of Carbo for future treatment is 400 mg/m2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Induction of apoptosis during normal and neoplastic B-cell development in the bursa of Fabricius. The lymphoid cells of embryonic bursal follicles are engaged in rapid growth and preimmune diversification of immunoglobulin genes. Disruption of follicular architecture by mechanical dispersion of these cells in short-term tissue culture was accompanied by continued cell division and extensive cell death by apoptosis. Apoptosis was suppressed in parallel cultures of intact follicles. gamma Radiation also triggered extensive apoptosis in embryonic bursal follicles within a few hours. Preneoplastic bursal stem cell populations induced by a v-myc oncogene were hypersensitive to induction of apoptosis by follicular dispersion and radiation. In contrast, tumor progression in v-myc- and v-rel-initiated bursal neoplasms was accompanied by development of resistance to induction of apoptosis. A programmed cell death pathway can be activated during normal B-cell development in the bursa, and alterations in the expression of this pathway accompany neoplastic change in this system. 
Simplified formula for the calculation of mitral valve area: potential inaccuracies in patients with tachycardia. A simplified formula (cardiac output/[transvalvular pressure gradient]1/2) has been proposed as an alternative to the Gorlin equation for determining valve area in patients with mitral stenosis. This study was done (a) to assess the relationship between the results of the simplified formula and those of the Gorlin equation in patients with mitral stenosis and (b) to determine the clinical characteristics most likely to be associated with a disparity between the 2 formulae. In 96 patients with mitral stenosis, the disparity between the 2 formulae was greater than 0.2 cm2 in 43 (45%) and greater than or equal to 0.35 cm2 in 21 (22%). The results of the simplified formula were especially likely to be disparate from those of the Gorlin equation in those whose heart rates were greater than 100 beats/minute. Thus, in the patient with mitral stenosis, the simplified formula should be used with caution and cognizance of its potential inaccuracy, particularly if the patient is tachycardic. 
Automated measurement of tumour extent in patients with colorectal liver metastases from X-ray computed tomography. Tumour burden is a significant prognostic factor in patients with colorectal liver metastases, and can be staged according to percentage hepatic replacement (PHR), but accurate measurements of PHR are difficult to obtain. We have used an automated computerized technique to isolate tumour and measure PHR from computed tomography images of 22 patients. Tumour identification was achieved by establishing local histogram-based thresholds at liver-tumour boundaries displaying clear bimodal histogram distributions. There was a significant association between measured PHR and independent visual estimates of PHR stage defined in quartiles (p less than 0.001). When the measured value of PHR differed from the PHR stage, the visual estimate was always higher. The accuracy of PHR measurement was assessed on stimulated liver computed tomography images. It seems likely that visual estimates of PHR from computed tomography images tend to overestimate tumour extent. The automated technique is probably more accurate and will be useful for assessing and monitoring patients. 
Effect of diltiazem on symptomatic and asymptomatic episodes of ST segment depression occurring during daily life and during exercise. BACKGROUND. Silent myocardial ischemia is an adverse prognostic marker in patients with coronary disease; however, controlled data on the effect of treatment are sparse and contradictory, and the relations among the occurrence of ST segment depression, drug efficacy, and heart rate are unclear. METHODS AND RESULTS. Sixty patients with stable coronary artery disease, a positive treadmill exercise test and asymptomatic ST segment depression on ambulatory electrocardiographic recording were assessed in a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial. Treadmill exercise tests and 72-hour electrocardiographic recordings were obtained at the end of two 2-week treatment periods with sustained-release diltiazem 180 mg b.i.d. or equivalent placebo. Episodes of asymptomatic ST depression decreased by 50% or more in 70% of the patients from a median number of 4.5 (range, 0-19) to 1.5 (range, 0-13) (p = 0.0001); their cumulative duration also decreased from 78.5 (range, 0-60) to 24.5 (range, 0-411) minutes (p = 0.001). No circadian variation was found in the efficacy of diltiazem. The occurrence of ischemic type ST segment depression was modulated by changes in heart rate rather than by absolute heart rate. Diltiazem also improved exercise test end points but to a lesser extent. Time to ST segment depression increased to 341 +/- 148 from 296 +/- 154 seconds (p = 0.005). Although less frequent with diltiazem administration (45 versus 54 patients, p less than 0.03), exercise-induced ST depression was more often asymptomatic (98% versus 72% of patients, p less than 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS. Diltiazem reduces the frequency and severity of ischemic type ST depression in patients with stable coronary artery disease. 
Relation between nicotine intake and Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE--To study the association between Alzheimer's disease and nicotine intake through smoking. DESIGN--Population based case-control study. SETTING--City of Rotterdam and four northern provinces of The Netherlands. SUBJECTS--198 patients with early onset Alzheimer's disease, 198 controls matched for age and sex, and families of 17 patients in whom Alzheimer's disease was apparently inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Age of onset of dementia, relative risk of Alzheimer's disease. RESULTS--89 of 193 patients with Alzheimer's disease had a history of smoking compared with 102 of 195 controls. Among the patients and controls with a family history of dementia, smoking was significantly less common in those with dementia (40/95 with dementia v 55/96 controls; relative risk 0.35; 95% confidence interval 0.16 to 0.78). The risk of Alzheimer's disease decreased with increasing daily number of cigarettes smoked before onset of disease (relative risk 0.3 in those smoking greater than 21/day v 1 in non-smokers). In six families in which the disease was apparently inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder, the mean age of onset was 4.17 years later in smoking patients than in non-smoking patients from the same family (p = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS--These findings suggest an inverse association between smoking and Alzheimer's disease, although smoking cannot be advocated for other health reasons. We speculate that nicotine may have a role in the aetiology of both Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. 
Internal jugular vein thrombosis after ovulation induction with gonadotropins. An unusual case of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome complicated by internal jugular vein and mediastinal thrombosis is presented. Hemoconcentration and perhaps immobilization appear to be the most probable causative factors. The patient was successfully treated with heparin anticoagulation. An uneventful twin pregnancy resulted from the stimulation cycle. 
Secondary ischaemia in rabbit skin flaps: the roles played by thromboxane and free radicals. 1. Biochemical mechanisms of ischaemia were investigated in rabbit skin flaps subjected to 2 h of primary ischaemia then, 24 h later, to 4 h of secondary ischaemia. During secondary ischaemia, flaps underwent either total ischaemia (arterial and venous blood supply occluded) or partial ischaemia (vein only occluded). Some of these flaps were treated at the time of reperfusion with the free-radical scavenger superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1) and/or the thromboxane synthetase inhibitor UK-38,485. 2. After 30 min of reperfusion, superoxide dismutase treatment significantly reduced blood thromboxane levels, elevated during ischaemia. Superoxide dismutase also reduced tissue levels of malonyldialdehyde and xanthine oxidase, indicators of free-radical damage, and restored the depleted tissue levels of superoxide dismutase. 3. UK-38,485 treatment failed to significantly alter any of these tissue free-radical parameters, although this agent significantly reduced blood thromboxane levels. 4. Combined superoxide dismutase plus UK-38,485 treatment was not significantly better than either treatment alone with respect to any parameter. 5. Partial ischaemia led to consistently higher levels of tissue free radicals and blood thromboxane than did total ischaemia. Thus partial ischaemia appears to result in greater free-radical damage than total ischaemia. 6. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that thromboxane acts as a mediator for free-radical damage in the ischaemic changes within the flap. 
Smoking and the risk of first acute myocardial infarction. When analyzing risk factors for first acute myocardial infarction in the Copenhagen City Heart Study, a large prospective population study of 20,000 men and women, smoking was found to influence risk significantly in a dose-dependent manner, the risk increasing 2% to 3% for each gram of tobacco smoked daily. Risk was particularly associated with inhalation, the risk for inhalers being almost twice that of noninhalers. No difference in risk could be demonstrated between various types of tobacco (pipe, cigar/cheroots, or plain and filtered cigarettes). The risk seemed associated with current smoking only, inasmuch as the duration of the smoking habit was not important. Ex-smokers had the same risk as those who had never smoked regardless of duration of smoking and time elapsed since quitting. Relative excess risk was significantly higher in female smokers than in male smokers, and daily alcohol intake appeared to have some protective effect on the risk of first acute myocardial infarction among heavy smokers. 
Myocardial distribution of indium-111-antimyosin Fab in acute inferior and right ventricular infarction: comparison with technetium-99m-pyrophosphate imaging and histologic examination In a postmortem study of a 69-yr-old female patient who had suffered 2 yr previously a non-Q-wave anterior infarction and who had sustained just seven days earlier a left inferior and right ventricular infarction, the distribution of 111In-antimyosin Fab was compared to the results of 99mTc-pyrophosphate imaging and histologic examination. Indium-111-antimyosin Fab imaging could not be performed because of cardiogenic shock. However, postmortem gamma scintillation counting revealed increased activities of antimyosin Fab in the inferoapical and right ventricular infarcted regions in which 99mTc-pyrophosphate positive imagings were observed; in contrast, a histologically confirmed old subendocardial anterior infarction had no definite activity. Thus, the myocardial distribution of 111In-antimyosin Fab corresponded well to the results of 99mTc scintigrams and histologic examinations in a human heart, suggesting that this technique could be useful in vivo for detecting several-day-old myocardial infarction of the right ventricle as well as the left ventricle. Tissue from the 2-yr-old infarction was not identified by this technique. 
Interleukin-2 and spontaneous hypertension. There are conflicting reports with regard to the antihypertensive of interleukin-2 in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Recently, the original claim of a normalization of arterial pressure in the spontaneously hypertensive rat after a single administration of interleukin-2 has been disputed. Therefore, the present study was performed to determine whether the administration of interleukin-2 was effective in attenuating both the development and maintenance of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Both young prehypertensive spontaneously hypertensive rats and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension received a single subcutaneous dose of 5,000 units/kg human recombinant interleukin-2. Arterial pressure was monitored at weekly intervals in both control and treated animals by the tail-cuff technique. Interleukin-2 administered as a one time single injection had no effect on the development of hypertension in the young animals or on the maintenance of hypertension in the adult animals. Interleukin-2 also was administered as a continuous infusion via osmotic minipumps at dose levels of 5,000 and 50,000 units/kg/wk to both young and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats. Continuous administration of interleukin-2 also had no effect on the development or maintenance of spontaneous hypertension. Therefore, this study firmly demonstrates that interleukin-2 has no effect on the onset or maintenance of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. 
The buccinator myomucosal island pedicle flap: anatomic study and case report. The buccinator myomucosal island pedicle flap is a useful means of introducing relatively large amounts of vascularized mucosa into the oral cavity. Using cadaver dissections and clinical cases, the anatomy and clinical relevance of this tissue are defined. Emphasis is placed on the technical caveats and pitfalls of the procedure. 
Cell population depletion associated with fetal alcohol brain damage: mechanisms of BAC-dependent cell loss. Neuronal death is one of the most serious consequences of alcohol exposure during development. Studies described in this paper used a neonatal rat model to address factors affecting neuronal death following alcohol exposure during the period of rapid brain growth, and relate them to possible mechanisms of damage. The profile of blood alcohol concentrations (BACs) is an important variable influencing both brain growth deficits and neuronal death--a smaller daily dose of alcohol can be more damaging than a larger daily dose, if it is consumed in a binge-like pattern that produces relatively higher BACs. Alcohol exposure for a single day also can be damaging, producing both brain growth deficits and neuron loss, if high BACs are obtained. Various brain regions and different neuronal populations within a given brain area exhibit different degrees of vulnerability. Some neuronal loss clearly is a function of cell death due to direct effects of alcohol, while other deficits may be due to either primary or secondary effects of the alcohol insult. In the cerebellum, a maturational or metabolic factor also appears to be involved with alcohol-induced neuronal death. Immunocytochemical studies using a monoclonal antibody against microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) indicated that cerebellar lobules containing Purkinje cells that are in the process of extending dendrites are ones that are more vulnerable to alcohol than lobules containing Purkinje cells that mature later. Alcohol exposure during brain development may be producing neuron attrition in multiple ways, including disruption of membrane integrity, inhibition of protein synthesis or other alterations such as lipid solubility, or by disruption of cytoskeletal elements. 
Kikuchi's necrotising lymphadenitis. Three cases of Kikuchi's necrotizing lymphadenitis without granulocytic infiltration presented to the ENT department as cervical lymphadenopathy with neutropaenia. Differential diagnosis from malignant lymphoma was difficult both clinically and histopathologically. Two recovered spontaneously without treatment within three months, one improved initially but was lost to follow-up after one month. 
Simultaneous assessment of inflammation and epidermal proliferation in psoriatic plaques during long-term treatment with the vitamin D3 analogue MC903: modulations and interrelations. The influence of topical application of MC903, an analogue of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, on psoriatic plaques was investigated during a long-term treatment study. The parameters for epidermal growth and for inflammation were assessed on frozen sections using immunohistochemical methods to elucidate their modulations in time and the interrelations between the different cell types involved during treatment with MC903. Biopsies were taken before and after 1, 2, 4 and 12 weeks of treatment. Monoclonal antibodies against the hyperproliferation-associated keratin 16, against cycling nuclei, and against T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, Langerhans cells and CD14-positive cells were used in combination with a polyclonal antibody against polymorphonuclear leucocyte (PMN)-elastase. The earliest change was a statistically significant decrease in PMN after 1 week of treatment followed by a decline of cycling nuclei after 2 weeks. These changes preceded a decrease of T lymphocytes which occurred after 4 weeks. Keratin 16 content tended to diminish after 4 weeks of treatment. CD14+ cells decreased slightly during the observation period, whereas Langerhans cells tended to increase. No B lymphocytes were found. These results suggest that MC903 influences the number of PMN and epidermal growth rather than the number of T lymphocytes. 
Combination therapy of OK432 and recombinant human interferon alpha A/D on viral myocarditis in mice starting after infection. We investigated the effects of OK432, recombinant human interferon alpha A/D (rIFN alpha A/D) and a combination of these drugs on murine acute myocarditis due to encephalomyocarditis virus. Mice were administered 1 KE of OK432 and 10(4)U/g of rIFN alpha A/D starting 24 hr after viral inoculation for 14 days. The survival rate of mice having the combination therapy was significantly higher than that of untreated mice on day 21 (15 of 20 vs. 6 of 20, P less than .001), whereas the viral titer in the heart, the heart weight/body weight ratio and the scores for myocardial inflammation and necrosis were significantly lower. On the other hand, therapy with OK432 or rIFN alpha A/D individually improved neither the survival rate nor the extent of myocardial damage. The natural killer cell activity in the combination therapy mice on day 3 after infection was significantly increased in comparison with untreated mice (46.2 +/- 5.5 vs. 37.7 +/- 2.8%, P less than .01), and the cytotoxicity of peritoneal macrophages was increased (45.0 vs. 26.7%). Thus, the combination therapy of OK432 and rIFN alpha A/D was more effective than the therapy with OK432 alone or rIFN alpha A/D alone against acute viral myocarditis when the treatment was started early after infection, and the stimulation of host immunologic response by OK432 may be important for this combination therapy. 
Severity of Helicobacter-induced gastric injury correlates with gastric juice ammonia. We postulated that ammonia produced by Helicobacter pylori may contribute to gastric mucosal injury. This hypothesis was evaluated in Helicobacter-positive patients with chronic renal failure in whom a high urea concentration might amplify this phenomenon. Gastric urea and ammonia were measured, and the severity of gastritis was evaluated by counting mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells. High gastric ammonia and low urea in Helicobacter-positive patients, and the converse in Helicobacter-negative subjects, were observed. There was a significant correlation between gastric ammonia and interstitial polymorphonuclear leukocytes infiltration (P less than 0.05), suggesting a causal link. Eradication of Helicobacter pylori was associated with a decrease of ammonia and an increase of urea (P less than 0.01). The significant correlation between the severity of gastric inflammation and the gastric juice ammonia concentration suggests that ammonia may play a pathogenic role in Helicobacter-associated gastric injury. 
Surgical treatment of carcinoma of the gastric stump. To evaluate retrospectively the surgical treatment of patients with gastric stump cancer following gastrectomy for benign disease, we reviewed 52 patients operated on at the National Cancer Centre, Tokyo, between 1962 and 1988. Resection was carried out in 47 patients (90 per cent) and with curative intent in 36 (69 per cent). Stage distribution was: stage 1, 15 patients; stage 2, 5; stage 3, 9; stage 4, 23. In 36 cases curatively resected, 32 had completion total gastrectomy and four had subtotal resection. An R1 resection was performed in 11 patients and an R2 in 25. We had two hospital deaths and a 5-year survival rate excluding hospital deaths of 39 per cent. The 5-year survival rates of resected cases, curative cases and those having metastatic nodes were 43 per cent, 57 per cent and 29 per cent respectively. Radical resection is a reasonable treatment for gastric stump cancer as it is for primary cancer of the stomach. 
Death by embolization of prosthetic aortic valve. This report describes a case in which a young woman died from embolization of her prosthetic aortic valve. The discussion includes the embolization's association with chronic intravenous narcotism, recurrent bacterial endocarditis, and acute cocaine toxicity. 
Plasma antigen levels of the lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor in patient samples. Human plasma contains an inhibitor of tissue factor-initiated coagulation known as the lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor (LACI) or also known as the extrinsic pathway inhibitor (EPI). A competitive fluorescent immunoassay was developed to measure the plasma concentration of LACI in samples from normal individuals and patients with a variety of diseases. The LACI concentration in an adult control population varied from 60% to 160% of the mean with a mean value corresponding to 89 ng/mL or 2.25 nmol/L. Plasma LACI levels were not decreased in patients with severe chronic hepatic failure, warfarin therapy, primary pulmonary hypertension, thrombosis, or the lupus anticoagulant. Plasma LACI antigen was decreased in some, but not all patients with gram-negative bacteremia and evidence for disseminated intravascular coagulation. Plasma LACI levels were elevated in women undergoing the early stages of labor (29%), in patients receiving intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator (45%), and in patients receiving intravenous heparin (375%). A radioligand blot of the pre- and post-heparin plasma samples shows the increase to be in a 40-Kd form of LACI. Very low levels of plasma LACI antigen were found in patients with homozygous abetalipoproteinemia and hypobetalipoproteinemia, diseases associated with low plasma levels of apolipoprotein B containing lipoproteins. Following the injection of heparin into one patient with homozygous abetalipoproteinemia, the plasma LACI antigen level increased to a level comparable with that in normal individuals after heparin treatment. 
Altered lipid profile after Kawasaki syndrome. BACKGROUND. Delineation of lipid values in children after Kawasaki syndrome is important because of the predilection of this disease for the coronary arteries. METHODS AND RESULTS. We measured plasma concentrations of total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides using enzymatic methods in 105 patients with a history of Kawasaki syndrome. Measurements were obtained during six time periods: 10 days or less, 11-31 days, 1-3 months, 3-12 months, 1-3 years, and more than 3 years. Total cholesterol was depressed in the first interval (122.0 +/- 19.8 mg/dl, mean +/- SD), but the mean values were normal in all periods after clinical recovery (overall mean, 149.0 +/- 24.0 mg/dl). High density lipoprotein cholesterol was also depressed in the first interval (15.2 +/- 9.9 mg/dl); although high density lipoprotein cholesterol increased significantly with duration since disease onset (p less than 0.001), it remained significantly lower than expected (p less than 0.001), even in the latest interval (47.2 +/- 10.9 mg/dl). Nonfasting triglyceride levels were high (162.5 +/- 63.4 mg/dl) in the first interval and then diminished steadily with time, but this relation did not achieve statistical significance. We compared adjusted lipid levels (z scores) of 46 Kawasaki patients after clinical recovery with those of their parents; patients had similar total cholesterol levels but significantly lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (p = 0.021 for mothers, p = 0.001 for fathers). Mean high density lipoprotein cholesterol after clinical recovery tended to be lower in patients with persistent coronary abnormalities than in those without such lesions (p = 0.085). CONCLUSIONS. Kawasaki syndrome is associated with important abnormalities in lipid metabolism. Continued long-term surveillance of this population is necessary to monitor lipid levels and their relation to future development of coronary atherosclerosis. 
Rheumatoid arthritis in Israeli Jews: shared sequences in the third hypervariable region of DRB1 alleles are associated with susceptibility. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is known to be associated with class II HLA antigens in most populations, but recent studies in Israeli Jewish patients showed no significant differences in either DR4 or DR1 between patients and controls. In a previous DR4 subset study we found DR4-Dw15 to be associated with susceptibility (RR = 9.2) but this allele occurred in only 12% of the patients. We analyzed all DRB1 genes, using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and hybridization with allele specific oligonucleotides, in 49 Jewish patients with RA and 40 normal Jewish controls. Six DRB1 alleles that are similar to the prototype DR4-Dw4 (DRB1*0401) appeared to contribute to the risk for developing RA. In addition to DR4-Dw15 (DRB1*0405) 2 other alleles having substitutions in codons 71 only (DR1-Dw1/DRB1*0101, DR4-Dw14.2/DRB1*0408) or in codons 70 and 71 (DRw10/DRB1*1001) gave highly significant relative risks. Together, this group, with valine in position 85, and glycine in codon 86, gave a relative risk of 11.0 (p = 0.0002). Two other alleles with the same sequence in the third hypervariable region (amino acids 67-74) but with valine in codon 86 (DR4-Dw14.1/DRB1*0404) or alanine in 85 and valine in 86 (DR1-Dw20, DRB1*0102) gave a combined risk of 3.6 (p = 0.049). Altogether these 7 alleles with similar sequences in the third hypervariable region accounted for 55.6% of the patients, with an overall relative risk of 8.6 (p = 0.00002). Our results in this population indicate that shared epitopes in the third hypervariable region of DRB1 alleles also play a role in susceptibility to RA. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of potential cardiac source of embolism in stroke patients. To compare the diagnostic yields of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of potential cardiac sources of embolism, 63 patients (mean +/- SD age 63 +/- 15 [range 18-87] years) with transient ischemic attacks or stroke underwent both procedures. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a potential cardiac source of embolism in 14% (nine) of the patients, all of whom had clinical evidence of heart disease. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed a potential cardiac source of embolism in 41% (26) of the patients; 27% (seven) of these patients had no clinical cardiovascular abnormalities. Abnormalities detected only by transesophageal echocardiography in the patients with unsuspected cardiac disease included atrial septal aneurysm in two, patent foramen ovale in two, left atrial appendage thrombus in one, and myxomatous mitral valve in two. The 26 patients with an identified cardiac source of embolism were older (67.5 versus 59.4 years, p = 0.04), more frequently in atrial fibrillation (62% [16] versus 8% [3], p less than 0.0001), had a larger left atrium (43 versus 37 mm, p = 0.01) and more commonly had left ventricular hypertrophy (62% [16] versus 32% [12], p less than 0.02) than the 37 patients in whom no cardiac source of embolism was identified. Thus, transesophageal echocardiography is more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography in the detection of potential cardiac sources of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemic events. 
Paediatric blood pressure and anaesthesia. One percent of children have appreciably and consistently raised arterial blood pressure. A 7-year-old girl admitted for routine tonsillectomy, had unrecognised hypertension which put her at increased risk. Should anaesthetic practice take more note of paediatric blood pressures?. 
The quantitative study of lumbar vertebral bone marrow using T1 mapping and image analysis techniques: methodology and preliminary results. A method of quantifying lumbar vertebral bone marrow using pixel by pixel T1 mapping of spin echo magnetic resonance images is described. The accuracy and precision of the relaxation time measurements is confirmed by studies with the EEC Concerted Research Project, test object no. 5. The T1 data from all the pixels sampled from lumbar vertebral marrow are displayed as a histogram. By "thresholding" relative to normal control data the spatial distribution of high or low T1 pixels can be demonstrated. The approach is superior to that of the conventional region of interest method for quantifying and analysing relaxation time data, and allows tissue heterogeneity to be studied. Studies in patients with aplastic anaemia and acute leukaemia have been performed. 
Effect of enteric pacing on intestinal motility and hormone secretion in dogs with short bowel. The present study was designed to examine the role of electrode position during retrograde pacing in dogs with short bowel syndrome and unsevered intact duodenum. In nine beagle dogs a subtotal resection of the small bowel and jejunoileostomy was performed. In five of these dogs, an isolated blind loop (jejunum) with preserved mesenteric connections was left in situ as an additional place for a stimulation electrode. Small intestinal motility and plasma levels of insulin, glucagon, gastrin, somatostatin, and glucose were examined during pacing of the residual jejunum or the isolated loop, respectively, compared with control experiments in the same dogs without pacing. During pacing of the loop a significant (P less than 0.05-0.01) decrease in the postprandial small intestinal motility index was observed combined with a significant (P less than 0.05) increase in plasma insulin levels, whereas the postprandial increase in glucagon, somatostatin, gastrin, and glucose levels was not different from that in controls. In contrast, pacing of the jejunum increased postprandial small intestinal motility index (less than or equal to 68%), whereas the levels of the four hormones and plasma glucose were not different from those in controls. The data suggest that in dogs with intact duodenum, pacing on an excluded loop is required to obtain the desired effect of reduced intestinal motility and improved anabolic pancreatic hormone secretion. 
Non-typhoid Salmonella in renal transplant recipients: a report of twenty cases and review of the literature. We report 20 cases of non-typhoid Salmonella infection that occurred over a period of 10 years in 592 renal transplant recipients followed by our unit, and present a review of 58 previously reported cases. Analysis of these data suggests that infection occurs when immunosuppression is high (early in the post-transplant period, or after anti-rejection therapy). A significant number of patients have bacteraemia and widespread focal manifestations are common. Despite prolonged antibiotic therapy, relapses occur commonly causing significant morbidity, occasional graft loss and even death. 
Systemic, splanchnic and renal hemodynamic effects of a dopaminergic dose of dopamine in patients with cirrhosis. The effects of dopamine on kidney function have not been elucidated in patients with cirrhosis. Moreover, although increased portal pressure has been observed with supradopaminergic doses of dopamine in these patients, the splanchnic hemodynamic effects of low doses of dopamine have not been previously studied. Thus we studied the acute systemic, splanchnic and renal hemodynamic effects of a dopaminergic dose of dopamine (1.5 micrograms/kg body wt min) in nine cirrhotic patients. Plasma dopamine levels increased markedly from 35 +/- 20 pg/ml to 31,400 +/- 4,900 pg/ml during dopamine administration. A significant diastolic pressure decrease of 10% was associated with a 15% increase in heart rate. Cardiac output was not altered. Although dopamine significantly increased azygos blood flow by 16%, wedged and free hepatic venous pressures were not altered. Dopamine significantly increased renal blood flow by 31%, but did not change the glomerular filtration rate. We conclude that a dopaminergic dose of dopamine increases azygos blood flow but not the hepatic venous pressure gradient. Finally, although it increases renal blood flow, dopamine does not seem to have any beneficial effects on glomerular filtration rate in cirrhotic patients. 
Effects of the angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril on cerebral blood flow in awake hypertensive rats. As chronic hypertension shifts the lower limit of cerebral blood flow (CBF) autoregulation to higher pressure levels, we studied the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, perindopril on mean arterial pressure (mean BP), basal CBF, and CBF autoregulation in awake renovascular hypertensive (2 kidneys, 1 clip model) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Blood pressure was measured via a chronically implanted arterial cannula and CBF by hydrogen clearance. Chronic renovascular hypertension, like spontaneous hypertension, caused a marked shift in the lower limit of CBF autoregulation but did not alter basal CBF. In SHR, acute administration of perindopril did not diminish CBF in spite of the fact that BP fell to a level below the lower limit of CBF autoregulation (determined by hypotensive hemorrhage). Chronic treatment of renovascular hypertensive rats with perindopril normalized BP and restored CBF autoregulation. 
Ischemic injury to the spinal cord or lumbosacral plexus after aorto-iliac reconstruction. Between January 1, 1980, and June 30, 1989, 9 patients (6 males and 3 females) developed ischemic injury to the spinal cord or lumbosacral plexus following 3,320 operations on the abdominal aorta (0.3%). The incidence of this complication was 0.1% (2 of 1,901) after elective and 1.4% (3 of 210) after emergency abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, and 0.3% (4 of 1,209) after repair for occlusive disease. Three of the latter had prior clinical evidence of distal embolization. Eight grafts were bifurcated (aorto-iliac:four, aorto-femoral: three, aorto-ilio-femoral:one). One patient underwent extra-anatomic revascularization. Only two patients had supraceliac aortic cross-clamping and one patient underwent exclusion of both internal iliac arteries. Four patients had hypotension. Early mortality was 22% (two of nine). Severe perioperative complications, mostly due to associated visceral and somatic ischemia and sepsis, were present in seven of the nine patients. The extent and type of the neurologic injury correlated with long-term outcome. Patients with ischemic injury of the lumbosacral roots or plexus had better recovery. Attention to the pelvic circulation and the collateral blood supply is important. Use of gentle technique to prevent embolization, avoidance of hypotension and prolonged supraceliac cross-clamping, revascularization of at least one internal iliac artery, and the use of heparin may decrease but not eliminate paraplegia. Once this unexpected complication occurs, careful neurologic evaluation should be done to localize the lesion and aid prognosis. 
Validation of in vivo receptor measurements via in vitro radioassay: technetium-99m-galactosyl-neoglycoalbumin as prototype model Hepatic binding protein (HBP) is a hepatocyte-specific receptor for serum asialoglycoproteins. The receptor also recognizes a synthetic glycoprotein that has been developed as a radiopharmaceutical, technetium-99m-galactosyl-neoglycoalbumin (99mTc-NGA). This report describes the correlation between receptor parameters measured in vivo via kinetic modeling of 99mTc-NGA and those measured by in vitro radioassay of biopsied liver tissue. Eleven patients with diffuse hepatic disease underwent percutaneous liver biopsy followed by a 99mTc-NGA functional imaging study. In vivo measurements of HBP quantity Ro and forward binding rate constant kb obtained from the kinetic analysis of 99mTc-NGA liver and blood time-activity data were compared to total receptor quantity and the HBP-99mTc-NGA association constant KA as measured by Scatchard binding assay of the biopsied tissue. The correlation coefficients between in vivo and in vitro measurements were 0.73 (df = 8, p = 0.015) and 0.98 (df = 8, p less than 0.01) for Ro and kb, respectively. The in vivo measurements of HBP biochemistry via kinetic analysis of the radiopharmaceutical time-activity data reflect the average concentration and affinity of the receptor. This study further substantiates the validity of 99mTc-NGA as a quantitative probe for the HBP receptor. 
Abnormal cerebral glucose metabolism in long-term survivors of childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia. Chemotherapy and radiation treatment of the central nervous system may cause delayed neurotoxicity in children with acute lymphocytic leukemia. We evaluated 12 long-term survivors of childhood leukemia using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, computed tomography scans, clinical neurological examinations, and neuropsychological tests. Regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRGlc) values for white matter were lower in the older long-term survivors (greater than 18 years old) treated with cranial radiation and intrathecal chemotherapy than in normal control subjects or survivors who had been treated with intrathecal chemotherapy alone. The ratio of white matter: cortex rCMRGlc values was lower than control values in the long-term survivors treated with cranial radiation and intrathecal chemotherapy, regardless of age, but not in those treated with intrathecal chemotherapy alone. By contrast, thalamic rCMRGlc values were lower than control values in older survivors regardless of treatment, and the ratio for thalamus:cortex rCMRGlc values was lower in all the treatment groups than in the control subjects. The highest rCMRGlc values were found in the youngest children, indicating an important effect of age on cerebral glucose metabolism. No neuropsychological deficits were identified in patients treated only with intrathecal chemotherapy; however, lower IQ scores were found in the long-term survivors who had been treated with cranial radiation and intrathecal chemotherapy. Treatment of the central nervous system with cranial radiation and intrathecal chemotherapy may cause prolonged alterations in white-matter and thalamic rCMRGlc, which may permit the identification and assessment of neurotoxicity in long-term survivors of acute lymphocytic leukemia by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. 
Effect of cyclosporine and steroids on canine bile flow. Cyclosporine and hydrocortisone are the main immunosuppressants used in transplant surgery. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of intravenous administration of cyclosporine and hydrocortisone on bile flow in dogs. Cyclosporine in doses of 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 mg.kg-1.hr-1 were administered along with 18 mumol/min intravenous sodium taurocholate to dogs with chronic biliary and gastric fistulas. Bile volume and bile chloride concentration and output were increased by cyclosporine in a dose-related manner, whereas bile salt concentration decreased and bile salt output was unchanged. Hydrocortisone produced small but significant increases in bile flow only at the highest dose of hydrocortisone administered. Subsequently, experiments were performed when sodium taurocholate was administered in progressively increasing doses (9, 18 and 36 mumol/min), with the dose changed every hour. Bile volume, [14C]erythritol clearance in bile and bile salt concentrations were measured with and without cyclosporine and hydrocortisone administration. Cyclosporine increased the bile salt-independent fraction of canalicular bile flow and ductular bile flow. Experiments evaluating the role of the cyclosporine carrier polyoxyethylated castor oil (Cremophor EL) demonstrated that this substance had no independent choleretic activity, whereas cyclosporine dissolved in ethanol and administered without Cremophor EL significantly increased bile flow. The results of this study indicate that cyclosporine stimulates chloride-rich choleresis independent of bile salt secretion. 
Cavernomas of the central nervous system: clinical and neuroimaging manifestations in 47 patients. Forty seven cases of central nervous system cavernous angioma (21 males and 26 females) are described. The main clinical signs were epilepsy and brainstem syndromes. Digital subtraction intra-arterial angiography, when used, failed to reveal cavernoma. CT detected many of the lesions, but the most successful supplementary diagnostic procedure was MRI which produces highly characteristic images of cavernous angioma. The diagnosis of cavernous angioma was confirmed in the 18 cases in which the tumour was removed surgically. 
Nicardipine and vascular hypertrophy. The effects of nicardipine administration on the morphology of coronary, renal, and pulmonary vascular trees were studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Male 10-week-old SHRs received 1 mg/kg/day of nicardipine or vehicle orally for 12 weeks. Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats were used as normotensive reference animals. Blood pressure, heart weight, heart/body weight ratio, the area occupied by the medial layer, and area occupied by the vascular wall/area of lumen ratio increased significantly (p less than 0.001) in SHRs compared with normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. Nicardipine reduced blood pressure, as well as relative heart weight, the area occupied by vascular smooth muscle, and the area occupied by the vascular wall/area of lumen ratio. In addition, the size of laminae of smooth muscle of the pulmonary artery was reduced in nicardipine-treated SHRs; coronary artery branches were the most sensitive. The results of the study provide direct evidence that nicardipine reduces not only blood pressure but is also able to counteract the development of hypertension-dependent changes in the morphology of the cardiovascular system. 
Lung function in school-age children who had mild lower respiratory illnesses in early childhood. We examined the relationship between patterns of mild lower respiratory illness (LRI) experienced in early childhood and lung function in 89 boys and 70 girls 6 to 18 yr of age. The children's histories of outpatient visits for wheezing and nonwheezing LRI during the first 6 yr of life had been documented by physicians in a single pediatric practice. Most children were reported by their parents to have been free of recurrent respiratory symptoms during the 2 yr prior to lung function testing. In sex-specific analyses, average lung function assessed by spirometry was similar in children who had made zero or one physician visit for wheezing LRI during the preschool years. Boys who had experienced two or more episodes of wheezing LRI during the preschool years had lower average FEV1, FEV1/FVC, FEF25-75, Vmax50, and Vmax75 than did boys who had zero or one preschool wheezing illness. The association between recurrent preschool wheezing LRI and later lung function remained after exclusion of data from seven boys who were reported to have wheezed in the 2 yr prior to study. Girls who had experienced two or more preschool wheezing LRI had lower average FEF25-75 and Vmax50 than girls with a history of zero or one such illness, but differences were not statistically significant. Recurrent nonwheezing LRI during the preschool years was not significantly associated with subsequent lung function in either sex, regardless of preschool wheezing LRI history. Detailed information concerning early childhood LRI experience is valuable in epidemiologic studies of factors influencing lung function in children. 
Renal arteriolar diameters in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Vascular cast study. The relation between the arteriolar diameters and hypertensive glomerulosclerosis was studied by using microvascular casts and histological evaluation. Spontaneously hypertensive rats 4 weeks of age were divided into three groups: nontreated, captopril (40 mg/kg/day)-treated, and trichlormethiazide (1 mg/kg/day) with hydralazine (20 mg/kg/day)-treated. Wistar-Kyoto rats served as controls. At 6 weeks old, the captopril-treated rats showed a lower blood pressure and a larger afferent arteriolar diameter compared with the control rats. At 20 weeks old, the nontreated group exhibited hypertension and a lower arteriolar diameter ratio (afferent to efferent, 0.89 versus 1.22 in control group) because of afferent constriction and efferent dilatation, seen equally in the outer and inner cortexes. Glomerulosclerosis was accentuated only in the inner cortex of the nontreated group (score, 63 versus 29 in control group). In the two treated rat groups, the blood pressure was reduced and arteriolar diameter ratios were similar to those in the control group (1.18 and 1.26). The sclerosis score in the trichlormethiazide with hydralazine-treated rats (score, 26) was lower than in the nontreated rats but not the captopril-treated rats (score, 36). These results indicated that 1) in the hypertensive rats, despite a reduced diameter ratio, glomerulosclerosis was more severe in the inner cortex; 2) two therapies reduced blood pressure and reversed the arteriolar changes, but a decrease in glomerulosclerosis was seen only in the trichlormethiazide with hydralazine-treated rats; and 3) for development of glomerulosclerosis, factors other than hemodynamics may be important in addition to intraglomerular pressure. 
An overview of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. This symposium reviewed the risk factors and problems associated with venous thromboembolism in surgical patients, especially those patients having total hip replacement. The importance of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis was emphasized by a theoretical analysis indicating that venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement not only saves lives but is also effective. A discussion of the pharmacology of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) included a review of its role, clinically and experimentally, in venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. Three of the discussants presented their favorable experiences with LMWH in reducing the incidence of venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement. It can be concluded that LMWH does reduce the incidence of venous thromboembolism in patients having hip replacement without causing an increase in blood loss. If its effectiveness and safety remain substantiated, LMWH may soon become the preferred agent for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. 
Nasalis myocutaneous sliding flap: repair of nasal supratip defects. The nasalis myocutaneous sliding flap ("nasalis flap") is an axial island flap based on the branch of the angular artery that supplies the nasalis muscle. The technique for performing this flap for the repair of defects up to 1.5 cm in diameter on the supratip area of the nose is described in detail. Twenty-four cases with supratip defects following Mohs surgery repaired with the nasalis flap are reported. Flap survival was 100% and final cosmetic results were excellent. It is concluded that the nasalis flap should always be considered for the repair of defects of the supratip area of the nose. 
Coronary vasospasm secondary to labetalol in a patient with aortic dissection. A 66-year-old hypertensive woman presented with epigastric and scapular pain on the basis of type 3 aortic dissection. Appropriate therapy with a combined alpha-adrenergic and beta-adrenergic antagonist agent prevented further ongoing dissection and amelioration of symptoms. On day 5, an episode of coronary vasospasm occurred presumably due to beta-blockade with unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity. 
Cutaneous and subcutaneous leiomyosarcoma: a clinicopathological review of 14 cases with reference to antidesmin staining and nuclear DNA patterns studied by flow cytometry. Among 14 patients (11 female and three male) with cutaneous and subcutaneous leiomyosarcomas, metastatic spread occurred in six of the 13 patients with adequate follow-up. The tumours were classified with regard to tumour grade, number of mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields, reactivity to antidesmin antibodies, and DNA pattern as assessed by flow cytometry. Antidesmin antibody staining was present in only six cases and seemed to be less common in the higher-grade tumours. The DNA pattern was aneuploid in five cases and non-classifiable in one case; all of these cases had metastatic spread. None of the eight remaining diploid cases had metastatic spread. DNA content was a strong predictor of metastatic potential. 
Biochemical liver profile in hemochromatosis. A survey of 100 patients. To determine the frequency of liver profile abnormalities in hereditary hemochromatosis, we under took a retrospective survey in 100 patients, all of whom had undergone liver biopsy. Liver histology was compared with the biochemical profile, which included aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin and albumin determinations. Mild abnormalities in the AST and ALT levels were seen in more than 65% of patients. Patients with cirrhosis had significantly greater elevations in AST, ALT, and alkaline phosphatase, and a significant decrease in albumin (p less than 0.05). Proband cases had more frequent abnormalities than discovered cases within families. Accordingly, we find that mild abnormalities in the biochemical liver profile are common in hemochromatosis and suggest that patients with an unexplained abnormality in the liver profile should be screened for hemochromatosis with a serum ferritin and transferrin saturation. 
Petrosal sinus sampling with and without corticotropin-releasing hormone for the differential diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome BACKGROUND. Measurement of adrenocorticotropin levels in plasma from the inferior petrosal sinuses of patients with Cushing's syndrome can distinguish adrenocorticotropin-secreting pituitary tumors (Cushing's disease) from other causes of the syndrome, principally ectopic adrenocorticotropin secretion from an occult tumor. However, it is unknown whether such measurement consistently identifies patients with Cushing's disease and whether testing with corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) enhances the value of the procedure. METHODS. We prospectively studied 281 patients with Cushing's syndrome to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of the procedure. Bilateral sampling was successfully accomplished in 278 patients, with no major morbidity; 262 of these patients underwent sampling before and after administration of ovine CRH. The adrenocorticotropin levels in the samples were used to calculate the ratio of the concentration in plasma from the inferior petrosal sinuses to the concentration in peripheral-blood plasma (the IPS:P ratio). RESULTS. The diagnosis of 246 patients was confirmed surgically as Cushing's disease in 215, as ectopic adrenocorticotropin syndrome in 20, and as primary adrenal disease in 11. An IPS:P ratio greater than or equal to 2.0 in basal samples identified 205 of the 215 patients with Cushing's disease (sensitivity, 95 percent), with no false positive results (specificity, 100 percent). A peak IPS:P ratio greater than or equal to 3.0 after CRH administration identified all 203 of the patients with Cushing's disease who received CRH (sensitivity, 100 percent), with no false positive results (specificity, 100 percent). The sensitivity was much lower when the adrenocorticotropin concentrations in the samples from one sinus were considered alone. In patients with Cushing's disease a difference of greater than or equal to 1.4-fold between the concentrations in the two sinuses (the adrenocorticotropin gradient) predicted the location of the microadenoma in 68 percent of 104 patients during basal sampling and in 71 percent of 105 patients after CRH administration. CONCLUSIONS. Simultaneous bilateral sampling of plasma from the inferior petrosal sinuses, with the adjunctive use of CRH, distinguishes patients with Cushing's disease from those with ectopic adrenocorticotropin secretion with high diagnostic accuracy. 
HIV-1 infection complicated by food allergy and allergic gastroenteritis: a case report. A 34-year-old female with HIV-1 infection detected by positive serology in 1983 subsequently developed acute granulomatous interstitial pneumonitis, eosinophilic gastroenteritis, and angioedema associated with the ingestion of vanilla ice cream and tangerines. The enteritis and angioedema symptoms appeared to respond to large doses of oral sodium cromoglycate. Sera collected over several years before clinical symptoms revealed a sharp rise of IgE antibody in 1985 and a subsequent decline to baseline values followed by markedly increased levels of IgE antibodies to a number of inhalant and food allergens. The findings suggest disordered IgE antibody regulation as a consequence of HIV-1 infection and as a cause of allergic manifestations including eosinophilic gastroenteritis and food-induced angioedema. 
Hereditary angioneurotic edema in the puerperium. A case report. Hereditary angioneurotic edema is a potentially fatal condition. Below is described the first reported case of the initial presentation of the condition precipitated by vaginal delivery. 
Effect of beta-blockade on low heart rate-related ischemia during mental stress. To explore the effect of beta-adrenergic blockade on low heart rate-related (mental stress) ischemia, 19 patients with coronary artery disease were randomized into a double-blind crossover trial of metoprolol, 100 mg twice daily, and underwent serial mental stress/bicycle exercise studies. Mental stress-induced wall motion abnormalities occurred at a lower heart rate than exercise-induced wall motion abnormalities during placebo administration (81 +/- 16 vs. 123 +/- 20 beats/min, p less than 0.05). Metoprolol reduced the mean magnitude of exercise-induced wall motion abnormalities (2.8 +/- 2.0 vs. 1.6 +/- 2.4, p = 0.003); improvement was related to the magnitude of hemodynamic beta-blockade effect. Metoprolol did not significantly reduce the mean magnitude of mental stress-induced wall motion abnormalities (3.0 +/- 2.2 vs. 2.6 +/- 2.2), although individual responses predominantly either improved (50%) or worsened (29%). Unlike exercise, the magnitude of hemodynamic beta-blockade did not predict mental stress response and metoprolol did not block mental stress-induced blood pressure elevations. Patients with abolition of exercise-induced ischemia were more likely to have reduction of mental stress-induced ischemia. Patients whose ischemia worsened with metoprolol during mental stress had more easily inducible ischemia, as assessed by exercise-induced placebo wall motion abnormality, chest pain and prior myocardial infarction. Beta-blockade was associated with a lowering of ischemia-related hemodynamic thresholds compared with placebo. These results suggest that beta-blockade has a variable effect on low heart rate-related ischemia that may be due to a lack of effect on mental stress-induced blood pressure elevation in patients with easily induced ischemia or to effects on coronary vasomotor tone, or both. 
Coronary-subclavian steal: correction of recurrent angina and cerebrovascular symptoms. Six months following aortic valve replacement and myocardial revascularization using the left internal mammary artery as a pedicle graft, recurrent angina and cerebrovascular symptoms occurred in our patient. Cardiac catheterization demonstrated a subtotal stenosis of the proximal left subclavian artery and a patent internal mammary artery graft with angiographic steal from the myocardium. The angina and cerebrovascular symptoms were relieved with correction of the proximal subclavian stenosis by balloon angioplasty. This demonstrates the importance of aortic arch and subclavian evaluation and selected angiography prior to myocardial revascularization using the internal mammary artery as a pedicle graft. 
Anterior mediastinal tumor of 30 years' duration. A 67-year-old woman had a large mediastinal mass with calcification. On roentgenogram of 30 years ago, the same mass without calcification was seen. The mediastinal mass was removed by surgery and proved to be a non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), most probably as a transition from a giant lymph node hyperplasia (Castleman's disease). 
Mass closure of the abdominal wound with delayed absorbable suture in surgery for gynecologic cancer. There has been a resurgence of interest recently in the optimal method of closure of the midline abdominal wound. The focus has been on the high-risk patient in particular. The controversy centers on interrupted versus continuous fascial closure and the choice of suture material. For three years on a gynecologic cancer service, running mass closure with delayed absorbable suture (Polyglactin) was used. Two hundred fifty-six patients were evaluable for analysis. The minimum follow-up time was two years. There was no wound dehiscence. Fourteen patients (5.5%) developed incisional hernias. The mass closure technique using delayed absorbable suture was effective in very-high-risk patients. 
Peritonsillar abscess: risk of disease in the remaining tonsil after unilateral tonsillectomy a chaud. The occurrence of disease in the remaining tonsil after unilateral tonsillectomy a chaud in the treatment of peritonsillar abscess, was studied in 536 patients. No patient had a history of previous severe tonsillitis at the time of the unilateral tonsillectomy, 6.1 per cent of the patients were readmitted for surgery of the remaining tonsil during the follow-up period. Ninety-seven per cent of these patients were younger than 30 years of age. Previous investigations have shown increasing frequency by age of pharyngitis after bilateral tonsillectomy. We suggest bilateral tonsillectomy in all cases of patients younger than 30 years old who suffer from peritonsillar abscess irrespective of previous tonsillar disease. Patients older than 30 should be treated with unilateral ablation, unless there is a clear indication for bilateral tonsillectomy. 
Anti-tumor effect of L-methionine-deprived total parenteral nutrition with 5-fluorouracil administration on Yoshida sarcoma-bearing rats. L-methionine-deprived total parenteral nutrition (methionine-deprived TPN), infusing amino acid solution devoid of L-methionine and L-cysteine by the method of TPN as an only protein source, showed enhancement of the effect of several anti-cancer agents. In this study the combined effect of the methionine-deprived TPN with administration of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was examined in Yoshida Sarcoma (YS)-bearing rats, from aspects of effects on the tumor metastasis and the host animal's life span, in the following four groups treated with: methionine-deprived TPN with administration of 5-FU, methionine-deprived TPN without administration of 5-FU, L-methionine-contained TPN plus 5-FU, and L-methionine-contained TPN without 5-FU. In the first experiment, TPN was continued for 8 days in the four groups, and the anti-cancer effect of methionine-deprived TPN and administration of 5-FU based on both the growth of the primary tumor at the implanted site and the tumor metastasis was studied from the view point of pathologic findings of animals killed immediately after these treatments. In experiment 2 the survival period was examined after these treatments for 10 days with subsequent oral feeding until death. The results were as follows: proliferation of YS, transplanted subcutaneously, was markedly suppressed; particularly hematogenous metastasis, characteristic in YS, was prominently blunted then obtained an apparent longer survival period in rats treated with the methionine-deprived TPN with administration of 5-FU. 
Remodeling of heart and arteries by chronic converting enzyme inhibition in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Hemodynamic and structural changes of the heart and large arterial vessels were studied in normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats following 12 weeks administration of converting enzyme inhibitor (perindopril, 2 mg/kg daily by gavage). In both strains, a significant blood pressure reduction was observed. In normotensive rats, the hemodynamic changes involved significant increase in systemic arterial compliance whereas slight changes in left ventricular weight and aortic medial thickness were observed. In hypertensive rats, the increase in compliance was relatively small, whereas there was a major reduction in medial thickness. Furthermore, the reduction of the media thickness was much more pronounced than that of the left ventricular hypertrophy. The present results suggest that the cardiac and arterial changes observed following long term converting enzyme inhibition do not strictly parallel the blood pressure changes in hypertensive rats. Dissociation between cardiac and arterial changes may be observed. 
Cardiovascular and metabolic characteristics of hypertension. Hypertension is now seen as a broader condition than high blood pressure alone. Large-scale epidemiologic studies have established that high blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events, but clinical trials of antihypertensive therapy have shown an inconsistent reduction in major cardiovascular endpoints. Importantly, the incidence of coronary disease has been reduced to only a small extent, suggesting that factors beyond high blood pressure are important in the genesis of atherosclerotic disease in hypertensive patients. It is evident, for example, that patients with hypertension have an exaggerated vulnerability to the consequences of lipid abnormalities. Moreover, it has recently been established that hypertension is characterized by insulin resistance and altered glucose tolerance. As a result, high plasma concentrations of insulin produce proliferative effects on vascular smooth muscle and connective tissue, and they may adversely affect the lipid profile. The left ventricle is also involved in hypertension--independent of blood pressure. There is growing evidence that there are increases in the muscle mass of the left ventricle and changes in its diastolic filling characteristics at the very early stages of hypertension. The arterial circulation is similarly involved, for alterations in structure or function, reflected by diminished arterial compliance, can be demonstrated prior to the appearance of clinical hypertension. Treatment designed to protect hypertensive patients from cardiovascular events must not only be based on blood pressure, but must take into account all the components of the hypertension syndrome. 
Intraspinal neurothekeoma (nerve sheath myxoma). A report of two cases. Neurothekeomas (nerve sheath myxomas) are rare benign cutaneous tumors. The authors describe two spinal intradural cases that show histologic, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic features identical to their cutaneous counterparts. The authors' findings suggest histogenesis from Schwann's cells or undifferentiated nerve sheath precursor cells. Neurothekeomas in unusual locations should be differentiated from myxoid neurofibromas, perineuriomas, and soft tissue myxomas. 
A 2-year experience with the Wolf piezoelectric lithotripter: impact of repeat treatment on results and complications. During a 2-year period, 884 extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy treatments have been performed on stones in 388 renal units (kidney and upper ureter) using a Wolf Piezolith device.* Lithotripsy routinely was performed on an outpatient basis without use of anesthesia or premedication. Often, the maximum number of pulses allowable by a Food and Drug Administration protocol (4,000) was delivered and retreatments frequently occurred on successive days. Of the patients 75% were stone-free 3 months after treatment, while another 20% had only residual small fragments. No intrarenal or perinephric hematomas were observed and only 1 patient has had hypertension requiring medication. Renal colic from passage of stone fragments occurred in only 10% of the patients. An aggressive treatment policy using repeat treatments as necessary provides for superior results with this device without an incision or complication. 
Segregation of atrial-specific and inducible expression of an atrial natriuretic factor transgene in an in vivo murine model of cardiac hypertrophy. To study the mechanisms that activate expression of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) gene during pressure-induced hypertrophy, we have developed and characterized an in vivo murine model of myocardial cell hypertrophy. We employed microsurgical techniques to produce a stable 35- to 45-mmHg pressure gradient across the thoracic aorta of the mouse that is associated with rapid and transient expression of an immediate-early gene program (c-fos/c-jun/junB/Egr-1/nur-77), an increase in heart weight/body weight ratio, and up-regulation of the endogenous ANF gene. These responses that are identical to those in cultured cell and other in vivo models of hypertrophy. To determine whether tissue-specific and inducible expression of the ANF gene can be segregated, we used a transgenic mouse line in which 500 base pairs of the human ANF promoter region directs atrial-specific expression of the simian virus 40 large tumor antigen (T antigen), with no detectable expression in the ventricles. Thoracic aortic banding of these mice led to a 20-fold increase in the endogenous ANF mRNA in the ventricle but no detectable expression of the T-antigen marker gene. This result provides evidence that atrial-specific and inducible expression of the ANF gene can be segregated, suggesting that a distinct set of regulatory cis sequences may mediate the up-regulation of the ANF gene during in vivo pressure overload hypertrophy. This murine model demonstrates the utility of microsurgical techniques to study in vivo cardiac physiology in transgenic mice and should allow the application of genetic approaches to identify the mechanisms that activate ventricular expression of the ANF gene during in vivo hypertrophy. 
Combined use of nifedipine and diltiazem for the treatment of severe hypertension. Calcium channel blockers are a heterogeneous group of drugs that have enhanced our ability to concurrently control blood pressure, treat coronary artery disease, and avoid many of the side effects of previously available antihypertensive agents. Patients with severe hypertension may require multiple agents for adequate control of blood pressure because of either poor control with one agent or side effects from high doses of a single agent. Laboratory investigations have shown a synergistic effect on receptor binding, as well as increased drug levels with the concurrent use of diltiazem and a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (nifedipine or nicardipine). It is as yet unknown whether these effects on receptor binding and increased drug levels translate into greater clinical efficacy in blood pressure control. We have reported what we believe to be the first case in which this interaction was used successfully to control previously poorly controlled hypertension, while minimizing side effects. 
Epipodophyllotoxin-related leukemia. Identification of a new subset of secondary leukemia. Thirty-seven children and adults who developed acute nonlymphocytic leukemia after the administration of chemotherapy that included etoposide or teniposide for a variety of hematologic and solid malignancies were identified. The secondary leukemia that occurred in these patients could be distinguished from the secondary leukemia that occurs after treatment with alkylating agents by the following: a shorter latency period; a predominance of monocytic or myelomonocytic features; and frequent cytogenetic abnormalities involving 11q23. Patients receiving an epipodophyllotoxin are at risk for developing secondary leukemia that has features distinct from the syndrome of secondary leukemia associated with alkylating agents. 
Cerebral dural sinus thrombosis. Cerebral dural sinus thrombosis is an unusual syndrome in which a patient presents with a severe headache that may be associated with diverse neurologic and physical findings. The case of a 31-year-old woman with headache, vomiting, generalized tonic-clonic seizure, and subsequent dense hemiplegia is presented. The patient was diagnosed as having a cerebral dural sinus thrombosis, but only after the diagnosis was missed initially. The syndrome may be difficult to detect because it can mimic several other entities. There are several known or suspected predisposing factors. The syndrome, diagnostic modalities, and therapeutic options are reviewed. 
The course of lymphocytic hypophysitis. A 27-year-old woman presented to our institution in her seventh month of pregnancy with complaints of headache and visual field disturbance. Workup revealed bitemporal hemianopia, a markedly enlarged pituitary gland on computed tomography scan, and biochemical evidence of partial hypopituitarism. At surgery, a biopsy specimen of the pituitary gland was taken revealing lymphocytic hypophysitis. The patient was treated with steroids and replacement doses of thyroid hormone. Visual fields improved postoperatively. A repeat computed tomography scan obtained 2 months after an uneventful pregnancy showed that her pituitary had regained normal size and contour. Over the next 9 months she had gradual recovery of all pituitary function. This case allowed us to follow and document the course of lymphocytic hypophysitis from its presentation as a macroadenoma with partial hypopituitarism to full recovery of both size and hormonal function of the pituitary. Lymphocytic hypophysitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a pituitary mass or pituitary dysfunction presenting in pregnancy. In patients with suspected lymphocytic hypophysitis and a pituitary mass, a trial of steroids may be therapeutic. 
Hepatocellular expression of lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 in chronic hepatitis. T lymphocyte-mediated cytolytic immune reactions are considered a major cause of hepatocyte injury in chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. To further investigate local immune responses, we studied the expression of lymphocyte antigens and cell-cell interaction molecules known to be involved in effector-target cell interactions by light and electron microscopy in liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic viral and autoimmune hepatitis. CD8+ lymphocytes were found to be the predominant population of cells in the inflammatory infiltrate in chronic hepatitis B and non-A, non-B hepatitis. In contrast, CD4+ cells constituted a comparably higher proportion of cells and were more numerous than CD8+ cells in chronic autoimmune hepatitis. In both viral and autoimmune hepatitis, a substantial portion of lymphocytes expressed activation antigens such as T11/3 (CD2R) and IL-2-R (CD25). Lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3 (CD58), which mediates lymphocyte adhesion and activation and is the natural ligand of the CD2/T11 lymphocyte surface receptor, could be demonstrated on endothelial cells and hepatocytes. Hepatocellular lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3 expression in chronic hepatitis showed membranous and cytoplasmic staining of hepatocytes and had a positive correlation with the degree of inflammatory activity. These results suggest that effector-target interactions between hepatocytes and lymphocytes mediated by the lymphocyte function-associated antigen-3/CD2 pathway play a role in chronic inflammatory liver disease. Possible functional consequences of this interaction include enhancement of antigen-specific immune reactions and antigen-independent mechanisms of T cell activation, which may contribute considerably to the degree of inflammatory activity and tissue damage in chronic hepatitis. 
The role of prolactin in autoimmune demyelination: suppression of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis by bromocriptine. Several lines of evidence suggest that the anterior pituitary hormone prolactin has a stimulatory role on immune function and that pharmacological suppression of prolactin secretion with the dopamine-agonist bromocriptine suppresses both humoral and cellular immunity. Here, we describe the effects of prolactin-suppression on the course of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in female Lewis rats. Initiation of continuous bromocriptine treatment before immunization reduced both the severity and incidence of clinical signs of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis-immunized rats experienced a threefold rise in basal prolactin levels on day 4 after immunization and maintained elevated prolactin levels on day 10, before the onset of neurological signs of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Bromocriptine treatment reduced prolactin levels to those of sham-immunized rats. In vivo bromocriptine pretreatment inhibited splenic lymphocyte proliferative responses in vitro to the immunizing antigen and to concanavalin A. Moreover, bromocriptine therapy was protective when initiated 1 week after the initial immunization and was also effective in suppression of late disease. These results indicate that (1) prolactin levels are elevated after immunization and before the onset of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, (2) bromocriptine inhibits both prolactin secretion and the severity of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, and (3) inhibition is also present when treatment is begun after sensitization, suggesting an effect of prolactin on the effector limb of the immune response during experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. 
Life expectancy of patients with chronic nonleukemic myeloproliferative disorders. This study determines, within the frame of current therapeutic possibilities, the impact of chronic nonleukemic myeloproliferative disorders on expected survival. The survival data for 1067 patients (454 with polycythemia vera, 247 with essential thrombocythemia, and 366 with idiopathic myelofibrosis) were collected from 38 Spanish institutions. The actuarial survival probability of each group of patients was compared with that of the age-matched and sex-matched control population. The survival of the patients with polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia did not differ from that of the control population (P = 0.92 and, 0.22, respectively), whereas the survival of the patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis was strikingly reduced with respect to the control population (P = 0.0000000007). Thus, in terms of survival, current therapeutic procedures may be considered as quite satisfactory in patients with polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia. On the other hand, due to poor survival of patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis, new therapeutic approaches for this condition are clearly needed. 
Identification and characterization of a low-affinity granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor on primary and cultured human melanoma cells. Hematopoietic growth factor receptors are present on cells of normal nonhematopoietic tissues such as endothelium and placenta. We previously demonstrated functional human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) receptors on small cell carcinoma of the lung cell lines, and others have reported that certain solid tumor cell lines respond to GM-CSF in clonogenic assays. In the current study, we examine human melanoma cell lines and fresh specimens of melanoma to determine whether they have functional GM-CSF receptors. Scatchard analyses of 125I-GM-CSF equilibrium binding to melanoma cell lines showed a mean of 542 +/- 67 sites per cell with a kd of 0.72 +/- 0.14 nmol/L. Cross-linking studies in the melanoma cell line, M14, showed a major GM-CSF receptor species of 84,000 daltons. Under the conditions tested, the M14 cells did not have a proliferative response to GM-CSF in vitro, nor was any induction of primary response genes detected by Northern analysis in response to GM-CSF. Studies to determine internal translocation of the receptor-ligand complex indicated less than 10% of the 125I-GM-CSF internalized was specifically bound to receptors. Primary melanoma cells from five surgical specimens had GM-CSF receptors; Scatchard analysis was performed on one sample, showing 555 sites/cell with a kd of 0.23 nmol/L. These results indicate that human tumor cells may express a low-affinity GM-CSF receptor protein that localizes to the cell surface and binds ligand, but lacks functional components or accessory factors needed to transduce a signal. 
Bacterial translocation induces procoagulant activity in tissue macrophages. A potential mechanism for end-organ dysfunction. The ability of bacterial translocation to induce cell-associated procoagulant activity was examined in a rodent model. Intestinal decontamination with streptomycin sulfate and bacitracin followed by oral feeding with a streptomycin-resistant strain of Escherichia coli produced monoassociation of the gastrointestinal tract with this microorganism. Using this model, the rate of bacterial translocation at day 3 increased from 6% (1 of 17) to 90% (28 of 31). Cell-associated procoagulant activity was measured in the mononuclear cell population of mesenteric lymph nodes as well as portal and systemic blood and also in hepatic nonparenchymal cells. In monoassociated animals, the procoagulant activity of mesenteric lymph node mononuclear cells was significantly greater than in control animals at day 3 (210% +/- 28% vs 100% +/- 6%) but not at days 1 or 6. Procoagulant activity of hepatic nonparenchymal cells was elevated in monoassociated animals at days 3 and 6 compared with control animals. Both control and monoassociated animals remained well throughout the experiment. The histologic features of the gastrointestinal tract, mesenteric nodes, and liver did not differ between groups. These studies provide evidence that bacterial translocation, in the absence of external stimuli, is able to induce cell activation at sites remote from the gastrointestinal tract and may therefore contribute to the pathogenesis of multiple organ failure. 
The bentiromide test using plasma p-aminobenzoic acid for diagnosing pancreatic insufficiency in young children. The effect of two different doses and a liquid meal. The bentiromide test was evaluated using plasma p-aminobenzoic acid as an indirect test of pancreatic insufficiency in young children between 2 months and 4 years of age. To determine the optimal test method, the following were examined: (a) the best dose of bentiromide (15 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg); (b) the optimal sampling time for plasma p-aminobenzoic acid; and (c) the effect of coadministration of a liquid meal. Sixty-nine children 91.6 +/- 1.0 years) were studied, including 34 controls with normal fat absorption and 35 patients (34 with cystic fibrosis) with fat maldigestion due to pancreatic insufficiency. Control and pancreatic insufficient subjects were studied in three age-matched groups: (a) low-dose bentiromide (15 mg/kg) with clear fluids; (b) high-dose bentiromide (30 mg/kg) with clear fluids; and (c) high-dose bentiromide with a liquid meal. Plasma p-aminobenzoic acid was determined at 0, 30, 60, and 90 minutes then hourly for 6 hours. The dose effect of bentiromide with clear liquids was evaluated. High-dose bentiromide best discriminated control and pancreatic insufficient subjects, due to a higher peak plasma p-aminobenzoic acid level in controls, but poor sensitivity and specificity remained. High-dose bentiromide with a liquid meal produced a delayed increase in plasma p-aminobenzoic acid in the control subjects probably caused by retarded gastric emptying. However, in the pancreatic insufficient subjects, use of a liquid meal resulted in significantly lower plasma p-aminobenzoic acid levels at all time points; plasma p-aminobenzoic acid at 2 and 3 hours completely discriminated between control and pancreatic insufficient patients. Evaluation of the data by area under the time-concentration curve failed to improve test results. In conclusion, the bentiromide test is a simple, clinically useful means of detecting pancreatic insufficiency in young children, but a higher dose administered with a liquid meal is recommended. 
Tube feeding-related diarrhea in acutely Ill patients. Acutely ill patients received tube feeding for an average of 15.8 days and, on average, 35% of those days were spent in the intensive care unit (ICU). Patients were prospectively assigned either a fiber-free formula (FFF-OSMOLITE HN, Ross; n = 50) or a fiber-supplemented (soy polysaccharide 14.4 g/L) formula (FSF = JEVITY, Ross; n = 50). Diarrhea was defined as three or more loose or watery stools per day and occurred in 30% of all patients. Diarrhea developed in 29 (41%) of the 71 patients who received antibiotics during, or within 2 weeks prior to, the feeding period, whereas only 1 (3%) of the 29 patients not receiving antibiotics developed diarrhea (p less than 0.005); and this patient developed diarrhea on the day of death. Among the 30 patients with diarrhea, stool Clostridium difficile (CD) toxin was positive in 15 (50%), negative in 11 (37%), and was not measured in four. The mean serum albumin was significantly lower in patients with diarrhea (2.43) than in those without diarrhea (2.75) (p = 0.043). There were no significant differences in age, sex, diagnoses, number of feeding days, and percent ICU days between patients with and without diarrhea. While not statistically significant, patients who received FSF were observed to have a lower incidence of diarrhea, a lower percentage of diarrhea days per total feeding days, and a lower frequency of positive CD toxin assays than patients who received FFF. In this patient population, antibiotic usage was the factor most strongly associated with diarrhea during tube feedings. 
The choice between surgical resection and radiation therapy for patients with cancer of the esophagus and cardia: a retrospective comparison between two treatments. The choice of treatment for patients with cancer of the esophagus and cardia is controversial. Since overall survival is poor, the most important aim of treatment should be improvement of the main complaint: the inability to eat. In a retrospective analysis of 265 patients, referred to the University Hospital in Leiden, The Netherlands, comparisons were made between palliative effects of surgical resection (N = 92) and irradiation (N = 128). Several methods of comparing surgery with irradiation are possible: (1) all surgical patients vs. all irradiated patients; (2) only those surgical patients who survived the operation (N = 70) vs. all irradiated patients (N = 128); and (3) survivors after resection (N = 70) vs. only those irradiated patients treated with "curative" radiation (N = 62). Analysis of prognostic factors showed that in both surgical and irradiated patients, the only statistically significant factor was the (dis)ability to eat. Criteria to be considered to make individual recommendations for either treatment are presented. 
Expression of immunoreactive E-cadherin adhesion molecules in human cancers. E-cadherin (E-CD), a Ca(2+)-dependent adhesion molecule, plays a major role in the maintenance of intercellular junctions in normal epithelial cells in most organs. The expression of E-CD in human carcinoma samples (esophagus, stomach, and breast) was investigated using immunohistochemical staining, which was performed on surgical specimens using a monoclonal antibody for human E-CD. E-cadherin was strongly expressed in all normal epithelium examined. However E-CD expression in primary tumors of esophagus (11 of 15: 73%), stomach (5 of 20: 25%), and breast (9 of 20: 45%) was reduced, and 68% of these (esophagus: 8 of 11, stomach: 4 of 5, breast: 5 of 9) displayed heterogeneous E-CD expression. In some tumor cells with reduced E-CD expression, E-CD molecules were located in the cell cytoplasm. These results indicate that there are human cancer cells in which E-CD-related intercellular adhesion is impaired. 
Value of transesophageal echocardiography as an adjunct to transthoracic echocardiography in evaluation of native and prosthetic valve endocarditis. To determine if transesophageal echocardiography provides better visualization of valvular vegetations than transthoracic echocardiography, we used both methods to evaluate 24 consecutive patients (mean age, 54 years; 15 female patients and nine male patients) referred for symptoms suggestive of infectious endocarditis. Ten of the 24 patients had one or more valvular prostheses. Echocardiograms were classified as positive or negative based on visualization of valvular vegetations or abscesses. Of ten patients with a final diagnosis of infectious endocarditis on extended follow-up, transthoracic echocardiography was positive in five patients. Transesophageal echocardiography not only yielded abnormal findings in all ten of these patients, but also revealed additional information in four of the five patients with abnormal transthoracic echocardiographic examinations. Among the 14 patients who, on subsequent follow-up, were found not to have infectious endocarditis, transthoracic echocardiography was normal in 13 and falsely abnormal in one. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed no evidence of infectious endocarditis in any of these patients. The ten patients who were determined to have infectious endocarditis all had positive blood cultures and no alternative cause for their clinical presentation; in seven patients in this group who underwent operative or postmortem evaluation, infectious endocarditis was confirmed. All patients without infectious endocarditis were demonstrated to have other causes for their clinical presentation. We conclude that transesophageal echocardiography is a highly valuable test in the work-up of patients with suspected infectious endocarditis, especially those patients with inconclusive or normal transthoracic echocardiograms. In addition, transesophageal echocardiography may be of benefit to patients with previously documented infectious endocarditis and a complicated clinical course in whom additional cardiac lesions are suspected but not demonstrated by transthoracic echocardiography. 
Long-term efficacy of repeat argon laser trabeculoplasty. The role of repeat argon laser trabeculoplasty (RALT) in the management of open-angle glaucoma is controversial. To determine the long-term efficacy of RALT, the authors reviewed case records of 44 patients (50 eyes) who received RALT for uncontrolled glaucoma at the Wills Eye Hospital before 1986. Success was defined as a 3 mmHg or greater decrease in intraocular pressure (IOP) to less than 22 mmHg, and no further surgical intervention. By life table analysis, RALT was successful in 35% of eyes at 6 months, in 21% at 12 months, in 11% at 24 months, and in 5% at 48 months. Thirty-three percent of eyes in which primary ALT was successful for 1 year were successful 12 months after RALT. Complications included IOP spikes in 12%. In conclusion, RALT was generally not effective for long-term control of open-angle glaucoma, but may be useful as a temporizing measure. However, this use of RALT must be weighed against the risks of complications and the additional progression of disease before more definitive surgical intervention. 
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes as agonist-dependent oncogenes. We have evaluated the muscarinic acetylcholine family of G protein-coupled receptors (mAChRs) for their oncogenic potential. These receptors are preferentially expressed in postmitotic cells, transducing signals specified by their endogenous agonist, the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Cells transfected with individual human mAChR genes were morphologically indistinguishable from parental NIH 3T3 cells in the absence of agonist. In contrast, when cultures were supplemented with carbachol, a stable analog of acetylcholine, foci of transformation readily appeared in m1, m3, or m5 but not in m2 or m4 mAChRs transfectants. Receptor expression was verified by ligand binding and was similar for each transfected culture. Transformation was dose-dependent and required only low levels of receptor expression. In transformation-competent cells, agonist induced phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis, whereas in m2 or m4 transfectants, receptors were coupled to the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. These findings demonstrate that mAChRs linked to phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis can act as conditional oncogenes when expressed in cells capable of proliferation. 
Odor identification deficit of the parkinsonism-dementia complex of Guam: equivalence to that of Alzheimer's and idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Olfactory dysfunction is among the first signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD), idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), and the parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) of Guam. We have recently demonstrated that the odor identification and detection deficits of patients with PD are equivalent to those of patients with mild AD when subtle differences in cognitive function are statistically controlled for by analysis of covariance. In contrast, patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and patients with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism evidence olfactory function much more similar to that of normal controls. In the present study, we administered the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test and the Picture Identification Test to 24 patients with early signs of the PDC of Guam and statistically compared their test scores to those of 24 early-stage AD and 24 early-stage PD patients of similar age and gender from the United States mainland. Although the PDC group evidenced slightly more difficulty in identifying pictures than did the other 2 groups, the odor identification deficit associated with this disorder was of the same magnitude as that observed in AD and PD, suggesting that olfactory testing cannot be used to distinguish among these 3 diseases and that the olfactory dysfunction of these disorders may reflect a common neurologic substrate. 
Insulin acutely suppresses parathyroid hormone second messenger generation in UMR-106-01 osteoblast-like cells: differential effects on phospholipase C and adenylate cyclase activation. Insulin modifies the effects of PTH on osteoblast-like cells. However, the basis for this effect is unknown. In bone and kidney cells, the effects of PTH on cellular function are mediated by second messengers generated through both the phospholipase C and adenylate cyclase systems. Therefore, we examined the effects of insulin on PTH second messenger generation in UMR-106-01 rat osteoblastic osteosarcoma cells. PTH produced a rapid, transient increase in intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) which was maximal at 30 sec and was only minimally reduced in the absence of extracellular calcium. Inositol-triphosphate (IP3) production was increased in parallel. PTH stimulation of [Ca2+]i was concentration-dependent from 0.5-1,000 nM, with half-maximal stimulation at approximately 50 nM PTH. A 30-sec exposure to 50 nM PTH produced 32% and 23% increases in IP1 and IP3 production, respectively (both P less than 0.05). Although insulin alone did not significantly alter basal [Ca2+]i, a 1-min exposure to 1-100 nM insulin produced a concentration-dependent suppression of the PTH-stimulated transient increase in [Ca2+]i and IP3 generation. 100 nM insulin decreased 50 nM PTH stimulation of [Ca2+]i and IP3 levels by 84% (P less than 0.02) and 80% (P less than 0.001), respectively. Preexposure to insulin also decreased PTH stimulation of intracellular cAMP levels, but to a lesser degree. A 1-min exposure to 100 nM insulin produced a 32% (P less than 0.01) decrease in PTH-stimulated cAMP generation, but lower insulin concentrations were without significant effects. These results demonstrate that in UMR-106-01 cells, insulin suppresses PTH stimulation of second messengers generated through both the phospholipase C and adenylate cyclase systems, but has a more marked effect on the former. 
Infected intravenous port device causing tricuspid valve regurgitation. Sepsis and tricuspid valve regurgitation developed in a 29-year-old man with Crohn's disease after implantation of an intravenous port device for parenteral nutrition. A thrombus, caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis, had grown along the catheter and prolapsed through the valve without affecting it. Complete removal in an open heart procedure led to quick recovery. 
"Heartstart Scotland"--initial experience of a national scheme for out of hospital defibrillation. OBJECTIVE--To determine the outcome of out of hospital defibrillation in Scotland during the year after the introduction of automated external defibrillators in October 1988. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis of ambulance service reports and hospital records. SETTING--Scottish Ambulance Service and acute receiving hospitals throughout Scotland. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Delay from cardiac arrest to first defibrillator shock; vital state on arrival at hospital accident and emergency department; survival to hospital discharge. RESULTS--During the study period 268 defibrillators were purchased by public subscription and 96% of the 2000 ambulance crew underwent an eight hour training programme in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and defibrillation. A total of 1111 cardiac arrests were recorded, and defibrillation was indicated and undertaken in 602 (54%) patients, mean age 63 (range 14-92) years. A spontaneous pulse was present on arrival at hospital in 180 (30%) of the defibrillated patients, and 75 (12.5%) were subsequently discharged alive. As expected, the likelihood of survival was inversely related to the delay from the onset of cardiac arrest to the time of the first shock and was greater in the case of witnessed arrest. If ventricular fibrillation occurred after the arrival of the ambulance, survival to discharge was 33%. CONCLUSIONS--An effective scheme for out of hospital defibrillation can be introduced rapidly, and with limited training implications and costs, by the use of automated external defibrillators in ambulances. 
Quantitative analysis of the bacterial findings in otitis media. Qualitative and quantitative bacterial analysis of 200 samples of middle ear effusions collected from patients with current otitis media was performed. When middle ear pathogens (S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae and B. catarrhalis) were found during current acute otitis media or otitis media with effusion infection, the quantity of these bacteria was of the magnitude 10(6)-10(8)/ml and 0-5 x 10(5)/ml effusion material, respectively. Mucopurulent effusion material contained 6 x 10(5)-10(8) bacteria per ml whereas effusion from chronically discharging ears exceeded 10(9) bacteria per ml. Serous effusions did not harbour middle ear pathogens. The appearance of the effusion material was dependent on the number of bacteria involved. Quantification of bacteria in various middle ear effusions offers opportunities to make the diagnosis of various otitis media infections more accurate and readily comparable. 
Algorithm to predict triple-vessel/left main coronary artery disease in patients without myocardial infarction. An international cross validation. Logistic regression was applied to the clinical, risk factor, and exercise data of consecutive angiographic referrals without prior myocardial infarction to determine an algorithm predicting the probability of triple-vessel/left main coronary artery disease. These data were obtained from a total of 1,074 such subjects from patient populations at four centers (Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; Hungarian Institute of Cardiology, Budapest, Hungary; the university hospitals, Zurich and Basel, Switzerland; and the Veterans Administration Medical Center, Long Beach, Calif.) and used to derive four separate probability algorithms. Each algorithm is based on patient data from study samples at three of the four centers and consists of 272 logistic functions, which are related to linear combinations of 13 variables (age, sex, type of chest pain, systolic blood pressure, resting electrocardiogram, serum cholesterol, fasting blood sugar, achieved exercise work load, achieved heart rate, exercise-induced angina and hypotension, heart rate-adjusted resting ST depression, and exercise ST slope). The four algorithms were cross validated by testing them on the populations not involved in their derivation. The resulting probabilities in the four test groups were then compared with the angiographic findings of triple-vessel/left main coronary artery disease. The discriminatory power of all the algorithms was fair to good (area under receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.68, 0.75, 0.82, 0.85) in the test groups. The algorithm did not significantly underestimate or overestimate disease probability except in one center (Long Beach). 
Rehabilitation in cerebral palsy. Cerebral palsy is the most frequent physical disability of childhood onset. Over the past four decades, prevalence has remained remarkably constant at 2 to 3 per 1,000 live births in industrialized countries. In this article I concentrate on the rehabilitation and outcome of patients with cerebral palsy. The epidemiologic, pathogenetic, and diagnostic aspects are highlighted briefly as they pertain to the planning and implementation of the rehabilitation process. 
Treatment of subungual hematomas with nail trephination: a prospective study. Subungual hematoma is a commonly encountered problem in the emergency department. We designed a prospective, observational study to determine if treatment of simple subungual hematomas (SUH) by nail trephination alone is without cosmetic or infectious complications. Over a 2-year study period, 48 patients met inclusion criteria. Radiographs of all digits were taken to detect distal phalangeal fracture and SUH size was measured. Nail trephination was performed using electrocautery, and all patients reported relief of pain after the procedure. Follow-up was achieved in 45 of 48 patients with a total of 47 SUH. Average follow-up period was 10.3 +/- 4.3 months. By patient history, average time for the nail to grow back was 4.0 +/- 2.6 months. No complications of infection, osteomyelitis, or major nail deformities occurred in any patients treated by nail trephination, regardless of SUH size or presence of fracture. In simple SUH, regardless of size, nail removal with suture repair of the nail bed, as suggested in previous studies, is unnecessary. 
Cavitation potential of mechanical heart valve prostheses. Just like technical check valves, the function of mechanical heart valve prostheses may presumably also lead to cavitation effects during valve closure. Due to the waterhammer effect, cavitation may primarily occur in the mitral position leading to high mechanical loading of the valve itself and of corpuscular blood elements. Ten different types of commercial mechanical heart valves were investigated in the mitral position of a pulsatile mock loop, to detect cavitation thresholds under physiologically similar conditions by cinematographic techniques. Almost all these valve prostheses show cavitation up to a ventricular pressure gradient of 5000 mmHg/s. The threshold depends on valve type and size and is sometimes within the physiological range below 2000 mmHg/s. Visible cavitation bubbles with a diameter of up to 1.8 mm and a collapse time of less than 0.1 ms suggest that vapour cavitation may play an important role for material and blood damage in mechanical heart valve prostheses. 
Subcutaneous sumatriptan in the acute treatment of migraine. Sumatriptan International Study Group. Two double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multicentre studies were carried out to assess the efficacy and tolerability of subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of 1-3 mg and 1-8 mg sumatriptan, respectively, in the acute treatment of migraine. Data are presented from a total of 519 patients. In both studies, the primary endpoint of efficacy was a reduction in headache severity from severe or moderate to mild or no headache. All doses of sumatriptan were significantly more effective than placebo in relieving symptoms, and the response appeared to be dose-related; an effective response to treatment was achieved within 30 min in 73% of patients treated with 6 mg sumatriptan and 80% of patients treated with 8 mg sumatriptan s.c., compared with 22% for placebo. Sumatriptan was well tolerated and the majority of adverse events were mild and transient. The most frequent complaint was irritation and pain at the site of injection. No changes in laboratory values were noted and ECG readings were unaltered by treatment. On the basis of these results, the 6 mg subcutaneous dose has been selected for further evaluation in large-scale studies. 
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli and life threatening chronic diarrhoea. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) infection is not generally thought to cause severe diarrhoea after the neonatal period. Patients admitted to Queen Elizabeth Hospital for Children over the three years (1984-7) with diarrhoea and EPEC infection were reviewed. Clinical details, features of small intestinal mucosa, and treatment were recorded in those who developed chronic diarrhoea with failure to thrive. Twenty six children with EPEC required hospital admission for diarrhoea and six of these (23%) developed chronic diarrhoea. In contrast only two (5%) of 42 with other serogroups of E coli (p less than 0.01) and 28 (4%) of 764 children without EPEC admitted with acute diarrhoea developed chronic symptoms (p less than 0.01). EPEC serogroups detected in the stool of the six children with chronic diarrhoea were 0128 in three, 0114 in two, and 0119 in one. The patients' clinical characteristics were: previous good health, no significant immunodeficiency, age 4-10 months, foreign travel (three of six), severe life threatening secretory diarrhoea from 0.5 to 1.5 1 per day (four of six), small intestinal enteropathy (five of six) three of whom showed mucosal adherent, non-invasive E coli of the same serotype as that in the stool, in association with microvillous loss and pedestal formation. All were treated with hypoallergenic feeds, two with parenteral nutrition, and three with parenteral antibiotics. All eventually recovered. EPEC infection is a common treatable cause of life threatening chronic diarrhoea in infancy. 
The development of a Norwegian pain questionnaire. The study was undertaken to develop a multidimensional measuring instrument for pain in the Norwegian language. The McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) was used as a model as it is a valid and reliable tool for pain measurement in English speaking countries. A series of steps were taken to develop a Norwegian pain questionnaire: (1) words describing pain were derived from 95 subjects (patients, students and health personnel); (2) 10 subjects allocated pain descriptors into groups; (3) 36 college student validated the word groupings; (4) 72 patients graded the words contained in each group according to intensity; and (5) the reliability of group items was tested. The study demonstrated that there are many descriptors of pain in the Norwegian language. The final version of the Norwegian pain questionnaire consisted of 106 pain descriptors divided into 18 groups. Validity of the classifications as well as reliability of the words was demonstrated. The actual value of the Norwegian pain questionnaire as a measuring instrument has not yet been documented. 
Dysphoria in male alcoholics with a history of hallucinations. This paper examines severity of depressive symptoms, as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory, in chronic alcoholics with and without a history of hallucinations. We found a) alcoholics entering alcohol treatment who have experienced hallucinations during detoxification report higher levels of subjective depression than alcoholics who have never experienced hallucinations, b) the level of subjective depression in alcoholics with a history of hallucinations remains higher at the end of inpatient alcohol treatment than in alcoholics without hallucinations, and c) hallucination is the important variable; alcoholics with blackouts, seizures, and delirium tremens, do not experience higher levels of depression during detoxification. The reporting of a significantly higher level of depressive symptoms by alcoholics with a history of experiencing hallucinations during withdrawal suggests that in some alcoholics, there exists a vulnerability for mood abnormalities which includes a predisposition toward other abnormal mental phenomena such as perceptual distortions. 
The epinephrine-blood platelet connection with special reference to essential hypertension. About three decades ago it was shown by an aggregometer that epinephrine activated blood platelets, and it was proposed that platelets could be the link between stress and cardiovascular disease. During the past 10 years this hypothesis has been tested in clinical studies. It has been found that subjects with hypertension consistently have raised plasma catecholamine levels and in particular elevated epinephrine levels. Arterial but not venous epinephrine concentrations correlated with plasma concentrations of the platelet-release reaction marker beta-thromboglobulin (BTG). Plasma BTG is elevated in hypertensive patients, and psychological stress (i.e., hypertension labeling) stimulates plasma epinephrine and BTG. When a physiologic dose of epinephrine is infused into essential hypertensive patients, platelet counts, platelet size, and plasma BTG concentrations increase more than in normotensive subjects. Data suggest that there is a connection between psychological stress, plasma epinephrine levels, and platelet function, especially in patients with essential hypertension. 
The radiology of headache. The patient who presents with a severe and acute headache should be evaluated radiographically with CT. The key diagnosis to make in this situation is hemorrhage, either subarachnoid or intraparenchymal. Computed tomography is more sensitive to acute hemorrhage than is MRI. When the patient is stable, MRI frequently contributes information to narrow the diagnostic possibilities, because vascular malformations and certain parenchymal lesions have a characteristic appearance on MRI. Hydrocephalus may also present acutely and is easily seen on CT or MRI. In a patient may show WMF and atrophy. The patient with trigeminal neuropathy may demonstrate central or peripheral lesions. In temporomandibular joint dysfunction, conventional tomography and MRI are frequently used. Magnetic resonance imaging shows excellent detail of the disk and surrounding soft tissues, whereas tomography better demonstrates bony changes. When a history of trauma is present, MRI may show a subacute subdural hematoma. These collections are easily seen on MRI, even when isodense on CT. Evidence of old shear injury is also well seen on MRI. Finally, neoplastic, inflammatory, congenital, and idiopathic sources of headache may be demonstrated by either MRI or CT, depending on presentation. MRI will generally show superior characterization. 
Pelvic osteosarcoma. Resection, reconstruction, local control, and survival statistics. Nine patients with a malignant tumor in the periacetabular region of the pelvis were treated with a Type IIC resection and were reconstructed using a cementless, adaptable prosthetic system. In two patients, a new planning strategy was applied using three-dimensional reconstruction. There were two chondrosarcomas, three Ewing-sarcomas, two osteosarcomas, and two metastases of thyroid cancer. Excision was wide, marginal, and intralesional in three cases each. Ages ranged from eight to 68 years (average, 40 years), and follow-up periods ranged from 12 to 36 months with an average of 27 months. Overall functional evaluation was good in five cases, fair in three, and poor in one. Four patients died of local recurrences and lung metastases; all of them had marginal or intralesional resections. Histologic analysis of one retrieved specimen revealed bone ingrowth with connective tissue interface. Three-dimensional planning has proven to be a very valuable tool for achieving an anatomic reconstruction of the pelvic ring. These results are encouraging and endorse the authors to continue with the current approach of prosthetic reconstruction following Type IIC resections. 
Pulmonary embolism update. Lessons for the '90s. Pulmonary embolism continues to be an underdiagnosed, potentially fatal problem. Because clinical diagnosis of pulmonary embolism is notoriously inaccurate, clinical suspicions must always be confirmed with objective studies. Evaluation generally begins with ventilation-perfusion lung scanning. Further evaluation is usually unnecessary if the lung scan is interpreted as normal (diagnosis excluded) or high-probability (diagnosis accepted). However, if the lung scan is indeterminate (referring to all other interpretations), additional diagnostic studies are usually required. Newer trends in the management of pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis include a more aggressive initial regimen of heparin; simultaneous administration of warfarin with heparin, resulting in a shorter duration of heparin therapy; use of the international normalized ratio to monitor warfarin therapy; and use of a less intense warfarin regimen. Adjusted-dose subcutaneous heparin therapy and low-intensity warfarin therapy are newer prophylactic techniques for patients at moderate to high risk for deep venous thrombosis. 
Early onset cerebellar ataxia with retained tendon reflexes. Clinical, electrophysiological and MRI observations in comparison with Friedreich's ataxia. Fourteen patients with the clinical diagnosis of early onset cerebellar ataxia with retained tendon reflexes (EOCA) were examined and compared with 11 patients with Friedreich's ataxia (FA). The mean age of onset in EOCA was 15.9 +/- 6.0 yrs (FA: 14.0 +/- 5.7 yrs). Annual progression rate and the percentage of patients who were wheelchair-bound was lower in EOCA as compared with FA, although the difference did not reach statistical significance. The latency until becoming wheelchair-bound, however, was significantly longer in EOCA than in FA. The segregation ratio in EOCA was significantly lower than 0.25. Clinically, EOCA and FA patients presented with a progressive cerebellar syndrome. Associated symptoms, such as muscle wasting, sensory disturbances, foot deformity, scoliosis and electrocardiographic abnormalities were encountered less frequently in EOCA than in FA patients. The electrophysiological findings in EOCA were variable and pointed to axonal degeneration in peripheral nerves and central pathways. Posturographic measurements revealed a higher incidence of anteroposterior sway direction in EOCA as compared with FA, suggesting a cerebellar type of ataxia in EOCA. Eleven out of the 14 EOCA patients had cerebellar atrophy in MRI. The characteristic MRI finding in FA was upper cervical cord shrinkage and only minor atrophy of the cerebellum. The demonstration of cerebellar atrophy in the majority of EOCA patients supports the view that EOCA is distinct from FA. It is uncertain, however, whether EOCA is a homogenous disease entity or a group of phenotypically similar syndromes. 
Fluconazole therapy for chronic disseminated candidiasis in patients with leukemia and prior amphotericin B therapy. OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy of fluconazole against chronic disseminated candidiasis (hepatosplenic candidiasis) in patients with leukemia in whom amphotericin B treatment had failed. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients with chronic disseminated candidiasis treated with fluconazole on a compassionate investigational new drug protocol. SETTING: Multi-institutional. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty consecutive patients received 100 to 400 mg of fluconazole per day for a median of 30 weeks. All had either failed to respond to treatment with more than 2 g of amphotericin B or had serious amphotericin B-related toxicities. RESULTS: Fourteen of 16 evaluable patients (88%) responded. Responses were observed in seven of nine patients in whom adequate doses of amphotericin B had failed and in all seven patients who had amphotericin B-related toxicities. In 12 patients, cytotoxic chemotherapy was continued without flare of the infection. Fluconazole was well tolerated with rare side effects. Aspergillus superinfection developed in three patients and contributed to the death of two of them. CONCLUSION: Fluconazole is a safe and effective agent with significant activity against chronic disseminated candidiasis. 
Treatment of blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm with botulinum A toxin: a Canadian multicentre study. Botulinum A exotoxin was recently approved for use in Canada. We describe the efficacy of botulinum toxin in the management of 235 patients with blepharospasm (mean age 64.3 years) and 130 patients with hemifacial spasm (mean age 60.4 years) treated at three Canadian ophthalmologic centres between 1984 and 1989. A total of 98% of the patients with blepharospasm and 100% of the patients with hemifacial spasm had significant relief of their symptoms; however, 11% of the former and 2% of the latter did not respond to the usual starting concentrations of the drug and needed stronger dosages for relief. The duration of relief varied widely in both groups. Up to 7% of patients had ineffective treatments but responded to subsequent injections. Analysis of variance and linear trend statistics showed that there were no changes in the mean duration of relief over the first several treatments for individual patients in either group. Side effects were transient and included ptosis, exposure keratitis, epiphora and strabismus. 
Achalasia: current evaluation and therapy. The current evaluation of and therapy for achalasia are reviewed. Esophageal manometry remains the best means for diagnosing achalasia. Initial therapy can include either pneumatic dilation or esophagomyotomy. Symptomatic improvement occurs in 71% of patients after pneumatic dilation, with a risk of perforation of 1.4%. Eight percent of these patients require subsequent esophagomyotomy. Surgical procedures for achalasia can be performed through either an abdominal or a thoracic incision. Nearly all authors favoring an abdominal approach add an antireflux operation to esophagomyotomy, whereas many authors advocating a transthoracic esophagomyotomy believe that an antireflux wrap is unnecessary. Overall results for the various surgical approaches used as initial therapy are excellent, with symptomatic improvement in 89% of patients, a mortality rate of less than 1%, and development of gastroesophageal acid reflux in less than 10%. Factors governing the choice of initial therapy are discussed. 
Partial-thickness wedge and advancement flap for upper lip repair Reconstruction of upper lip defects demands careful attention in order to reconstitute both normal function and normal appearance. These defects may involve mucosa, orbicularis oris muscle, skin, vermilion, or any combination of these structures. We will describe five cases in which there were defects created by Mohs micrographic surgery and present the concept of partial-thickness wedge in combination with a flap to repair these wounds. 
Acute cholangitis secondary to hepatolithiasis. In a series of 88 patients with acute cholangitis secondary to hepatolithiasis, 26 (30%) required emergency therapeutic intervention because of septicemic shock (n = 15), persistent fever (n = 8), or spreading peritonitis (n = 3). Analysis was made to define factors that predisposed to failure of conservative treatment and characteristics that could predict the need for emergency biliary decompression. The age, incidence of concomitant medical diseases, previous biliary surgery, positive blood culture, bacterial strains resistant to antibiotics used, and multiplicity of bacterial strains in bile cultures in patients who required emergency intervention were similar to these factors in patients who had elective operations after successful conservative management. The incidence of intrahepatic segmental obstruction by stones or strictures was similar, but many more patients who required emergency intervention had concomitant extrahepatic obstruction due to impacted common ductal stones or strictures. Logistic regression analysis of clinical, hematological, and biochemical data showed that maximum pulse rate within 24 hours of presentation (greater than 100 beats per minute, relative risk, 2.8) and platelet count at the time of admission (less than 150 x 10(9)/L, relative risk, 5.2) were the factors with independent significance in predicting the need for emergency therapeutic procedures. This finding may serve as a guideline for identifying high-risk patients for early intervention. 
Narrow duct segment distal to choledochal cyst. "Narrow segments" (or stenotic portions) of the common bile duct (CBD) distal to cysts in two patients (a 50-yr-old woman and a 25-yr-old man) with choledochal cyst (CholCyst) were studied macroscopically and histologically. The narrow segments of the ducts were patent and connected with the main pancreatic duct extraduodenally, whereas the CBD in controls were neither dilated nor stenotic, and joined the main pancreatic duct within the duodenal wall. These narrow segments were 1 cm long. In case 1, a minute orifice was found in the narrow segment of the duct macroscopically and was identified microscopically as a small duct from a pancreatic lobule. In case 2, a small pancreatic duct also joined the narrow segment of the duct. These small pancreatic ducts were derived from the ventral pancreas, based on distribution of PP-islets. Therefore, the narrow duct distal to the cyst in patients with CholCyst (or congenital biliary dilatation) was considered to be a branch of the ventral pancreatic duct. 
Prenatal diagnosis of the neurofibromatoses. This article reviews the application of genetic linkage analysis to molecular prenatal diagnosis using the neurofibromatoses as an example. The clinical manifestations and diagnostic criteria for these diseases are reviewed first, followed by a brief description of the principles underlying genetic linkage analysis, the detection of DNA polymorphisms and their application to the cloning of the NF1 gene. The last two sections review the molecular diagnosis and some of the problems in prenatal genetic counseling for NF1. 
Waking and rising at night as a trigger of myocardial ischemia. A diurnal pattern of changes in transient myocardial ischemia has been well documented in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) with an increase in the early morning hours. To further investigate potential triggers of ischemia, certain defined and distinct episodes of waking and rising during the nighttime were examined. Of 113 patients who underwent ambulatory monitoring of the electrocardiogram, 466 episodes of ischemia lasting 3,926 minutes were detected in 67 of the patients. In 30 patients who had ischemia at night, 21 reported 36 occasions of waking and rising, and 67% of these events were associated with ST-segment depression. Frequency and duration of ischemia were similar in the nocturnal episodes versus the early morning episodes of ischemia as were the increases in heart rate at 30, 10, 5 and 1 minute before the onset. Even before waking, there was an increase in heart rate beginning approximately 30 minutes before the onset of ischemia. This increase became significant 5 minutes before onset both in the early morning and on rising at night. Patients with nocturnal ischemia had significantly worse clinical signs of CAD. This study shows that rising at night is often associated with episodes of myocardial ischemia and, like the morning events on rising, is likely an important trigger of ischemia in patients with CAD. 
Treatment of compound fractures. Management of compound fractures remains a challenge to the surgeon. Methods to decrease patient morbidity include early fracture stabilization and sequential debridement. External fixation remains the standard; however, early internal fixation in low-grade injuries may be an acceptable option. Early soft tissue coverage is critical. The use of prophylactic parenteral antibiotics has decreased the incidence of acute infection and chronic osteomyelitis. Supplemental use of local antibiotic polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) beads appears to further diminish the morbidity in high-grade open fractures. 
Chronic osteomyelitis due to Clostridium clostridiiforme. We have reported a case of chronic osteomyelitis due to an unusual anaerobic organism, Clostridium clostridiiforme, a gram-positive rod that often stains gram-negative and that is frequently resistant to such drugs as cefoxitin and clindamycin. Clostridia other than those similar to C perfringens are generally not considered invasive pathogens, but our case and several similar ones show that they can be. 
Long-term results and patterns of disease recurrence after radical operations for lung cancer. Long-term results and patterns of disease recurrences after radical operations for lung cancer between 1975 and 1984 were investigated. Eight hundred fifty-two patients (76.1%) with lung cancer underwent operations during this period. Radical operations were performed on 648 patients. There were 326 (50.6%) pneumonectomies, 314 (48.5%) lung resections (lobectomies), and 8 (1.2%) segmentectomies. Long-term survival rates of 542 patients were studied. In 49.2% of the patients survival was beyond 3 years; in 33% of the patients it was beyond 5 years. Five-year survival was observed in 40.3% +/- 2.5% of patients with N1 and in 19% +/- 4.9% of patients with N2 disease. The differences in survival rates between patients with epidermoid cancer and adenocarcinoma were slight and statistically insignificant. The prognosis was poor in patients with small-cell cancer, large-cell cancer, and dimorphous cancer. The causes of death were studied in 193 patients. Disease recurrence was diagnosed in 75.1% of cases. Bronchopulmonary and concomitant diseases accounted for 19.7% of deaths in these patients. In 5.2% of the patients malignant tumors occurred in other organs. Local-regional recurrences were diagnosed in 33.8% of patients, distant metastases occurred in 55.2% of patients, and 11% of patients had combined disease recurrences. The problem of disease recurrence classification is discussed in the article. 
Left flank retroperitoneal exposure: a technical aid to complex aortic reconstruction. Over the last 5 years an extended left flank retroperitoneal approach was used in 85 of 531 (16%) aortic reconstructions deemed technically complex. Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair was performed in 70 patients (82%), bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease was performed in 11 (13%), and aortic endarterectomy for mesenteric and/or renovascular disease was performed in 4 (5%). Indications for use of this approach included a "hostile" abdomen (43 patients), juxta/suprarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (35), large (greater than 10 cm) abdominal aortic aneurysm (12), extreme obesity (10), associated renal and/or visceral artery stenosis requiring endarterectomy (9), inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm (2), and horseshoe kidney (2). Suprarenal or supraceliac aortic clamping, averaging 31 minutes, was required in 43 patients (50%). Postoperative recovery was rapid (average length of stay, 10.2 days), and morbidity was minimal despite the complex nature of these reconstructions. The perioperative mortality rate in elective operations was 1.2%. This approach facilitated proximal abdominal aortic exposure and anastomosis, especially in large, pararenal aneurysms or in situations unfavorable to a transabdominal approach. Whereas a left flank retroperitoneal approach can be used in most aortic reconstructions, it seems especially suited to those that pose significant technical challenges. 
Brachial approach to emergency cardiac catheterization during thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. TAMI Study Group. The use of the brachial approach to acute coronary intervention has not been previously studied. In the course of the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) trials, we used the transbrachial approach to cardiac catheterization with or without angioplasty in 202 of 704 (28.6%) patients. The baseline characteristics of age, sex, risk factors, medical history, time from symptom onset to therapy, and left ventricular function were similar for the 2 different approaches. Time from therapy to coronary angiography was not delayed by the brachial approach compared with the femoral approach: 97.1 +/- 26 min vs. 99.9 +/- 133.8 min, respectively. Chemical patency was established in 78 vs. 73% of patients and technical success with acute PTCA with the brachial approach was 89% vs. 78% with the femoral approach. Clinical outcomes were quite similar with respect to death (6 vs. 6%), reocclusion (10 vs. 14%), and emergency coronary bypass surgery (5 vs. 6%). Baseline hematocrit was 43.9 +/- 4.4 and 43.5 +/- 4.8, respectively with a nadir of 32.9 +/- 5.6 vs. 33.0 +/- 5.4. The need for vascular repair occurred in 1% vs. 3% of patients and retroperitoneal hemorrhage was documented in 1% vs. 1% of patients. This study indicates that in the hands of experienced operators the transbrachial approach to acute coronary intervention in the acute phase of treatment with thrombolytic therapy can be used with equal risks and efficacy as the femoral approach. 
Selection criteria for successful immediate breast reconstruction. To evaluate the factors leading to success in immediate breast reconstruction after mastectomy, 176 consecutive immediate reconstructions done with implants or expanders over a 5-year period were analyzed. None of these 176 had "complete muscle coverage." There were only five failures: four with implant loss (one involving radiation) and one removed electively. The failures were 1 in 40 regular implants, 4 in 77 temporary expanders, and 0 in 59 long-term expanders. There is no other report in the literature comparing these different types of implants. Various hypotheses for failure are reviewed. It is concluded that failure in immediate reconstruction is not related to use of drains, bilaterality, or lack of "complete muscle coverage." It is concluded that failure is related to implant type, prior radiation, and most of all to suboptimal patient selection. Specific selection criteria and operative techniques are discussed. 
Fragile X syndrome: diagnosis using highly polymorphic microsatellite markers. We describe two highly polymorphic microsatellite AC repeat sequences, VK23AC and VK14AC, which are closely linked to the fragile X at Xq27.3. Both VK23AC (DXS297) and VK14AC (DXS292) are proximal to the fragile site. Two-point linkage analysis in 31 fragile X families gave (a) a recombination frequency of 1% (range 0.00%-4%) with a maximum lod score of 32.04 for DXS297 and (b) a recombination frequency of 7% (range of 3%-15%) with a maximum lod score of 12.87 for DXS292. Both of these polymorphisms are applicable to diagnosis by linkage in families with fragile X syndrome. A multipoint linkage map of genetic markers at Xq27.3 was constructed from genotyping these polymorphisms in the CEPH pedigrees. The DXS292 marker is in the DXS98-DXS297 interval and in 3 cM proximal to DXS297. 
Gastrointestinal mucosal injury in experimental models of shock, trauma, and sepsis. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: The mucosa of the GI tract serves as an important barrier limiting the systemic absorption of luminal microbes and microbial products. Two methods commonly used to assess the integrity of the GI mucosal barrier are assessment of the extent of microbial translocation and measurement of mucosal permeability to hydrophilic probes. RESULTS: Studies using these methods have provided convincing evidence that the barrier function of the intestinal mucosa is deranged in numerous animal models of shock, trauma, and sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: Although the mechanisms underlying mucosal injury under these circumstances remain incompletely understood, current evidence suggests that mucosal damage in shock, trauma, and sepsis is likely due to various combinations of intracellular hypoxia due to ischemia, tissue injury caused by reactive oxygen metabolites, the deleterious effects of various lipid mediators (e.g., platelet-activating factor) and/or cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis factor), and deficient utilization or supply of key nutritional substrates (e.g., glutamine). 
Grading of human urothelial carcinoma based on nuclear atypia and mitotic frequency. II. Prognostic importance. A grading system was applied in a retrospective study of 124 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder using a modified Bergkvist system. The intermediate World Health Organization (WHO) grade II tumors were divided into supposedly benign and malignant forms of grades IIa and IIb, respectively. The 5-year survival was 92% for patients with grade IIa urothelial carcinoma, compared to 43% for patients with grade IIb tumors. The corresponding figures for grades I and III tumors were 100 and 44%, respectively. When excluding carcinoma in situ (5-year survival 50%) no patient with a noninvasive tumor (stage Ta) died of bladder carcinoma within 5 years, compared to 50% of those with invasive cancers (stages T1 to T4). We propose a new grading system in which grades I and IIa are embraced as grade A, grades IIb and III as grade B, and grade IV as grade C. The 5-year survival rate in the 3 grades was 94, 44 and 27%, respectively. Grade A seems to represent a type of tumor with universally favorable prognosis, in contrast to grades B and C. This offers practical advantages, since the former can be treated conservatively, whereas the latter need more urgent radical intervention, especially in patients in whom invasive growth is recorded. 
Expression of c-jun during macrophage differentiation of HL-60 cells. Cellular transcription factors are important in the regulation of cellular genes. Recent studies have indicated that a class of cellular genes known as early response genes are important in the control of cellular growth properties. Two of these genes, c-jun and c-fos, play an important role in the control of cellular differentiation. Because the acute myelogenous leukemia cell line, HL-60, is capable of differentiating to either macrophages or granulocytes, it provides a good model to understand differential gene expression. To determine if the modulation of c-jun was important in the differentiation of HL-60 cells to either macrophages or granulocytes, expression of c-jun mRNA was determined by Northern analysis at various times following treatment with a variety of differentiating agents, including 12-tetradeconyl-phorbol 13-acetate (TPA), retinoic acid (RA), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), or 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25 (OH)2 D3]. Both TPA and 1,25(OH)2D3, which induce HL-60 cells to differentiate to macrophages, resulted in marked increases in c-jun mRNA; while RA and DMSO, which induce HL-60 cells to differentiate to granulocytes, did not greatly alter c-jun mRNA expression. HL-60 cell lines resistant to macrophage differentiation after exposure to either 1,25(OH)2D3 or TPA did not result in increases in c-jun mRNA. These results suggest that elevation of c-jun mRNA in HL-60 cells correlated temporally with differentiation to macrophages. Thus, c-jun may be a critical cellular transcription factor involved in macrophage differentiation. 
Presence of the terminal complement complex (C5b-9) precedes myelin degradation in immune-mediated demyelination of the rat peripheral nervous system. In this study, the terminal complement complex C5b-9 (TCC) was localized by immunocytochemistry at different clinical stages of experimental autoimmune neuritis. Deposits of TCC were found on the surface of Schwann cells and their myelin sheaths, and to some extent in the extracellular space at predilective sites of impending demyelination before onset of clinical signs and for a short period thereafter. Additionally, TCC was deposited on the surface of W3/13 positive leukocytes. No TCC immunoreactivity was seen in the distal stump of transected sciatic nerves 1 to 15 days after axotomy. The early and transient deposition of TCC on Schwann cells and myelin sheaths in experimental autoimmune neuritis before overt demyelination suggests that complement activation plays a pathogenic role in the initiation of immune-mediated myelin damage. The lack of TCC immunoreactivity after nerve transection excludes a nonspecific activation process. The signals involved in local TCC formation in demyelinating peripheral nervous system disorders have yet to be explored. 
Results of Medical Research Council phase II study of low dose cisplatin and methotrexate in the primary treatment of locally advanced (T3 and T4) transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. A series of 49 previously untreated patients with category T3 or T4 bladder cancer underwent treatment with low dose methotrexate and cisplatin; 44 patients were eligible for assessment of response. Complete response (CR) was seen in 5 patients (11%) and partial response in 15 (34%) (overall response rate 45%). Treatment was reasonably well tolerated with no major morbidity and no treatment-related deaths. After a median follow-up of 3.5 years, the 1-year and 2-year survival rates were 70 and 30% respectively. Ten patients remain recurrence-free without having received "definitive local therapy" (cystectomy and/or radiotherapy) at follow-up extending from 20 to 50 months. 
Aspirin in the prevention of thrombosis. More than a decade has passed since the introduction of the concept that inhibition of platelet function may be helpful in preventing the initiation of thrombus formation. Aspirin has been recognized as inhibiting normal platelet function and the mechanism has been clearly delineated. Legions of patients have been studied to answer the question of whether aspirin is efficacious in the primary prevention of acute myocardial infarction. At the present time, however, a solid, clear answer is not available and firm recommendations cannot be made. A large number of studies evaluating aspirin and other antiplatelet agents in the prevention or delay of recurrent myocardial infarction (secondary prevention) have been completed and those studies reporting a favorable beneficial effect are in the minority. In these secondary prevention studies reporting success, the doses of aspirin employed were large enough to inhibit both the cyclo-oxygenase system and thromboxane A2 production as well as the synthesis of prostacyclin. Thus, in these studies if aspirin is effective in reducing adverse cardiovascular events, its efficacy is being mediated by an unknown mechanism. If the reader of the few studies that report positive results is convinced of the benefit of aspirin, it must be emphasized that thoughtful, cautious patient selection based upon the individual's cardiovascular risk profile must be exercised. Individual variation may exist with respect to aspirin's beneficial effect. It must be absolutely recognized that aspirin or any antiplatelet agent does not in any way substitute for the removal or treatment of coexisting risk factors such as tobacco, obesity, hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and metabolic disease. In contrast to aspirin, control of the above risk factors has been established as beneficial. Aspirin is not free of undesirable side-effects; fatalities secondary to hemorrhage have been reported, and these must be known in detail and understood by both physician and patient before this agent is prescribed in the prophylactic treatment of cardiovascular disease. 
Limb salvage for osteosarcoma in the 1980s. The incidence of local recurrences following limb salvage performed by experienced surgeons with wide surgical margins and with the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy is sufficiently low (5%-10%) so as not to have a biologically statistically significant impact on the long-term survival rate. Following limb salvage, the incidence of morbidity increases with a few patients occasionally requiring prolonged or repeated hospitalizations and further surgical procedures, even amputation. The durability of the reconstructions is variable, and many of the mobile knee reconstructions may need to be revised if the patients become long-term survivors. The function of salvaged limbs is better than that after the alternative amputation, but none of the reconstructions will give normal function. Finally, no matter which type of surgery on the lower extremity is selected, patients will have a good early psychosocial adjustment if no premorbid psychosocial disorder is present. 
Complement activation by artificial blood substitute Fluosol: in vitro and in vivo studies. A perfluorocarbon blood substitute, Fluosol, is undergoing clinical trials as an adjunct to chemotherapy. The adverse effects associated with its administration have been postulated to result from complement activation. When gel electrophoresis and Western blotting of Fluosol are used after its incubation with serum, activated C3 and factors Bb and H are bound to the Fluosol particles in a time-dependent fashion, which suggests that complement activation with Fluosol, as does that with zymosan, occurs on the surface of the particles. Paradoxically, it is found, both by the measurement of Fluosol-bound C3d and by fluid-phase C5a, that lower concentrations of Fluosol cause greater amounts of complement activation, which suggests a complex interaction of activators and inhibitors that changes as the available surface area is decreased. Studies performed with bystander red cell-bound C3d demonstrated in vivo complement activation occurring in six patients receiving Fluosol as an adjunct to chemotherapy for colon cancer. In two patients, there was a marked increase in red cell-bound C3d after Fluosol infusion; these two patients also developed adverse reactions during Fluosol infusion. These studies suggest that the Fluosol surface plays a major role in the initiation and regulation of complement activation that is seen during Fluosol infusion. 
Early-initiated zidovudine therapy prevents disease but not low levels of persistent retrovirus in mice. An F1 hybrid mouse strain containing the Rfv-3r/s genotype was inoculated with Friend virus complex (FV) and treated with zidovudine (ZDV) intraperitoneally three times daily for 20 days beginning as early as 10 min after initial viral exposure. This strain of mice develops FV-specific neutralizing antibodies that aid in reducing viremia and splenic virus titers but do not prevent splenomegaly and eventual FV-associated death. The virally exposed mice treated with ZDV did not develop splenomegaly or have detectable viremia after the last drug treatment. On day 21, a single animal had demonstrable virus in the spleen as determined by a focal immunoenzyme assay; 57% had detectable virus at 5 weeks, but non displayed splenic virus after 35 weeks. None of the animals died after the 35-week holding period, compared to 38% dying in placebo-treated mice. To detect low levels of the virus, or potentially latent virus, splenocytes were cocultivated with a cell line known to readily propagate FV, and the cells were subsequently passaged four times to amplify replication of the virus. After amplification, a significant increase was seen in the number of mice testing positive for virus. Thus, ZDV treatment initiated early after virus exposure was effective in preventing FV-induced splenomegaly and death, but did not prevent low levels of persistent retrovirus in the mice. 
Epileptiform EEG activity of the centromedian thalamic nuclei in children with intractable generalized seizures of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Centromedian thalamic nuclei (CM) epileptiform EEG activities were recorded in children with intractable generalized seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) through implanted recording-stimulating electrodes used for seizure control. Ictal CM epileptiform activities were consistently correlated to widespread surface cortical EEG activities and symptoms in all patients and all types of generalized seizures; i.e., fast spike discharges at CM correlated at onset of tonic and tonic-clonic generalized seizures; slow (1-2 Hz) spike-wave complex discharges at CM correlated for atypical absence seizures; slow polyspike-wave complex discharges correlated for myoclonic seizures; and spike bursts and suppression patterns correlated for combined tonic-atonic-myoclonic seizures. Ictal EEG activities occurred simultaneously at right and left CM and surface at onset of all seizure types, with the exception of myoclonic seizures where CM complete discharges and individual spike-wave complexes significantly lead those of the surface. Brief tonic-atonic spasms clinically undistinguishable from "real" epileptic seizures showed no EEG counterparts at CM and surface. Interictal CM spike-wave complete discharges and individual spike-wave complexes showed variable amplitude-temporal patterns. Amplitude emphasis on CM and frontopolar regions was observed in most of complete discharges, however, and phase shifts between CM and frontopolar regions were observed in individual spike-wave complexes. 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor-induced myopathy in the rat: cyclosporine A interaction and mechanism studies. Recent clinical evidence indicates a potential for skeletal muscle toxicity after therapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (HMGRIs) in man. Although the incidence of drug-induced skeletal muscle toxicity is very low (0.1-0.2%) with monotherapy, it may increase following concomitant drug therapy with the immunosuppressant, cyclosporine A (CsA), and possibly with certain other hypolipidemic agents. In the Sprague-Dawley rat, very high, pharmacologically comparable dosages (150-1200 mg/kg/day) of structurally similar HMGRIs (lovastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin and L-647, 318) produced dose-related increases in the incidence and severity of skeletal muscle degeneration. Physical signs included inappetence, decreased activity, loss of body weight, localized alopecia and mortality. To evaluate the interaction between HMGRIs and CsA, a rat model of CsA-induced cholestasis was developed. In this 2-week model, the skeletal muscle toxicity of the HMGRIs was clearly potentiated by CsA (10 mg/kg/day). Doses of HMGRIs which did not produce skeletal muscle toxicity when given alone caused between 75 and 100% incidence of myopathy (very slight to marked skeletal muscle degeneration) when CsA was coadministered. Typical light microscopic changes included myofiber necrosis with interstitial edema and inflammatory infiltration in areas of acute injury. Histochemical characterization of the muscle lesion indicated that type 2B fibers (primarily glycolytic white fibers) were most sensitive to this toxicity but that, with prolonged administration, all fiber types were ultimately affected. Results of pharmacokinetic studies in rats treated with various HMGRIs +/- CsA indicated that coadministration of CsA alters the disposition of these compounds, resulting in increased systemic exposure (e.g., increased area under the plasma drug concentration vs. time curve-AUC) and consequent (up to 13-fold) increases in skeletal muscle drug levels. Evaluation of the potential interaction between the HMGRI, lovastatin and CsA at the level of hepatic microsomal metabolism indicated that CsA did not inhibit the metabolism of lovastatin in isolated microsomes from female rats. In light of the above findings, it appears that HMGRI-induced myopathy is a class effect in the rat, which is potentiated by CsA as the result of altered clearance and resultant increased tissue exposure. Cholestasis associated with CsA and HMGRIs may form the basis for decreased elimination and the resultant elevated systemic exposure. Furthermore, this toxicity is muscle fiber-selective and may be associated with impaired skeletal muscle energy metabolism. 
Age of onset in siblings concordant for multiple sclerosis. We have evaluated genetic and environmental influences in multiple sclerosis (MS) by comparing age of onset in 99 sibling pairs concordant for the disease. We used three methods of analysis: (1) comparison of mean differences in age of onset and year of onset, (2) linear regression of differences in age or year of onset vs difference in ages, and (3) intraclass correlation of age of onset which is also used for monozygotic twins concordant for MS. Comparison of the mean differences in age of onset or year of onset is found to be inappropriate and potentially misleading. No significant results were found in linear regression of the age of onset or year of onset vs differences in ages, although a trend towards onset at the same age is present. However, nontwin siblings show a significant intraclass correlation for age of onset (P less than 0.01) as is seen in genetic disorders. A stronger intraclass correlation in age of onset in concordant monozygotic twins vs concordant sibling pairs further suggests that age of onset is partly under genetic control, assuming common exposure to an environmental agent. The results give little support for common exposure to an environmental trigger in concordant MS sibling pairs. They are consistent with a mixture of random independent exposures and common exposures leading to the development of the disease, with the former predominating. 
Prolonged lumbar spinal drainage after the resection of tumors of the skull base: a cautionary note. A combined transcranial and facial approach was used for an en bloc resection of a malignant angiosarcoma of the ethmoid sinuses. The patient awoke neurologically intact and was monitored in the Intensive Care Unit. A lumbar subarachnoid drain was placed for the continuous removal of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Approximately 36 hours after surgery, she deteriorated neurologically and demonstrated bilateral extensor posturing to painful stimuli. A computed tomographic scan demonstrated obliteration of the basal cisterns indicative of transtentorial herniation and a small amount of extradural air. Eight hours after the lumbar drain was turned off, the patient had recovered completely. We propose that the patient manifested transtentorial herniation caused by a pressure gradient between the supratentorial and lumbar cistern compartments brought on by the continuous removal of CSF from the lumbar subarachnoid space. We suggest that ventricular drainage should be considered for these cases rather than lumbar drainage. This offers the same advantage of removing the CSF and maintaining low-to-normal intracranial pressure without the risk of transtentorial herniation. 
A management plan for tongue base cancer that includes brachytherapy. For physiologic as well as oncologic reasons, there has been an increasing interest in radiation therapy as the primary treatment of base of tongue carcinoma. At Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, we have used such a plan, using external beam conventional therapy in combination with an interstitial boost of iridium 192 to the primary site, plus planned neck dissections in selected patients. Between 1981 and 1986, 17 patients with untreated base of tongue squamous cell carcinoma were treated in this manner. Thirteen of the 17 are disease-free as a result of this therapy. Two patients have failed locally, yielding an actuarial local control of 87% at a median followup of 2 years. These data would suggest that primary radiation that includes interstitial therapy as part of the plan, along with neck dissection in certain situations, is a worthwhile method management of base of tongue carcinoma. 
Pelvic osteosarcoma. Resection, reconstruction, local control, and survival statistics. Nine patients with a malignant tumor in the periacetabular region of the pelvis were treated with a Type IIC resection and were reconstructed using a cementless, adaptable prosthetic system. In two patients, a new planning strategy was applied using three-dimensional reconstruction. There were two chondrosarcomas, three Ewing-sarcomas, two osteosarcomas, and two metastases of thyroid cancer. Excision was wide, marginal, and intralesional in three cases each. Ages ranged from eight to 68 years (average, 40 years), and follow-up periods ranged from 12 to 36 months with an average of 27 months. Overall functional evaluation was good in five cases, fair in three, and poor in one. Four patients died of local recurrences and lung metastases; all of them had marginal or intralesional resections. Histologic analysis of one retrieved specimen revealed bone ingrowth with connective tissue interface. Three-dimensional planning has proven to be a very valuable tool for achieving an anatomic reconstruction of the pelvic ring. These results are encouraging and endorse the authors to continue with the current approach of prosthetic reconstruction following Type IIC resections. 
A double-blind comparison of low-dose intravenous ketamine and methohexital in adults. Two ultralight general anesthetic techniques, one using low-dose ketamine and the other using methohexital as the primary anesthetic agent, were compared for efficacy, safety, and psychomotor recovery in a double-blind fashion for use during third molar surgery. Low-dose intravenous ketamine as the primary anesthetic following premedication with fentanyl and midazolam, and in conjunction with nitrous oxide, appeared to produce less hypoxia, hypercarbia, and apnea than when methohexital was used. No significant differences were noted in heart rate or blood pressure between the techniques. The ketamine technique was universally preferred by the surgeons and anesthesiologists because of superior patient cooperation and airway management. No unpleasant psychomimetic side effects of significance were noted with the use of ketamine. Postoperative recovery took slightly longer in the ketamine group, with patients being judged fit for discharge approximately 10 to 15 minutes later than the patients who received methohexital. 
CNS pathology in the neurological mutant rats zitter, tremor and zitter-tremor double mutant (spontaneously epileptic rat, SER). Exaggeration of clinical and neuropathological phenotypes in SER. The pathological alterations in the central nervous system (CNS) were examined in three kinds of mutant rat; the zitter (zi/zi; Zi), the tremor rat (tm/tm; Tm) and the spontaneously epileptic rat (SER) which is a double mutant carrying both zitter and tremor genes. Two major alterations demonstrated in these mutants were hypomyelination and vacuolation or spongy degeneration. Hypomyelination was observed predominantly in SER and to a lesser extent in Zi, and was accompanied by a redundant or aberrant myelin sheath formation in addition to a decreased number of myelinated fibres. This appeared to be related to the occurrence of tremor. There was no abnormality in the structure of the myelin lamellae and oligodendrocytes or any destruction of myelin sheaths by phagocytic cells. The number of radial components in CNS myelin was increased almost equally in Zi, Tm and SER. Vacuolation was prominent in SER and Tm, especially in the brainstem and thalamus. Zi also developed mild vacuolation with advancing age. Vacuolation seemed to be related to the epileptic phenomena in SER and Tm. Vacuoles consisted mainly of swollen astrocytic processes and enlargement of the extracellular space, as well as occasional enlargement of periaxonal spaces. Thus both pathological findings--the hypomyelination derived from the zitter mutation with tremor, and the vacuolation from the tremor mutation with epileptic symptoms--were mutually exaggerated in SER. It is postulated that the two different genetic loci with zi and tm mutations interact and synergistically reinforce each other both clinically and pathologically in SER. 
Catalase-negative listeria monocytogenes causing meningitis in an adult. Clinical and laboratory features. A 63-year-old previously healthy woman presented with acute meningitis. Cultures of the cerebrospinal fluid yielded a serotype 1/2a isolate of Listeria monocytogenes that was biochemically typical in all respects, other than the reproducible lack of catalase production. During therapy, the patient developed oculomotor dysfunction that was attributed to an abscess in the internal capsule. This case report documents the existence of catalase-negative L. monocytogenes indicating that catalase production should not be a strict criterion for identification of Listeria. Furthermore, this clinical experience extends in vitro and experimental animal studies indicating that catalase production is not a necessary virulence factor for invasion by Listeria. 
Perioperative respiratory compliance in children undergoing repair of atrial septal defects. Children with atrial septal defects (ASD) have less respiratory compliance (Crs) than normal cohorts. There could be implications for anaesthetic management if these children also have decreased compliance during anaesthesia. To examine the changes in Crs before, during and following surgical correction of the atrial defect, Crs was measured in 29 infants and children, 15 undergoing correction of secundum type atrial septal defects, and a group of 14 children of similar weight undergoing non-thoracic surgery. During sedation, Crs was measured using the single breath technique (SBT) and during anaesthesia, both before and after the surgical procedure, an inflation technique was applied to determine Crs. To investigate the aetiology of the difference in Crs, the pulmonary to systemic flow ratio (Qp:Qs) was determined using echocardiography during sedation in the ASD patients. During sedation, Crs in the ASD group was 52.7 +/- 19.5% less than in the control group. The slope of the line of regression of Crs vs height for the ASD group was significantly less (P less than 0.05) than that of the control group during sedation. However, during anaesthesia, Crs in the ASD group was not significantly different from the control group either before or after surgery. The per cent decrease in Crs during sedation in the children with ASD, in comparison with the control group, did not correlate with the Qp:Qs ratio of the ASD group (r2 = 0.012,NS). We conclude that, in spite of lower Crs during sedation, infants and children with ASD do not have lower Crs during anaesthesia and cardiopulmonary bypass than normal controls undergoing non-thoracic surgery. 
Proliferative assessment of GFAP-positive and GFAP-negative glioma cells by nucleolar organizer region staining. The proliferative potential of two types of tumor cells that did or did not express glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in 19 cases of high-grade gliomas, including nine anaplastic astrocytomas (WHO criteria, grade 3) and 10 glioblastoma multiforme (grade 4), was investigated by a combined staining technique, one-step silver colloid method for nucleolar organizer region-associated argyrophilic protein (Ag-NOR) and immunocytochemistry for GFAP. The mean numbers of Ag-NORs in GFAP-positive cells and GFAP-negative cells of high-grade gliomas were 2.68 and 3.74, respectively. The value of GFAP-negative cells was significantly greater than that of GFAP-positive cells (p less than 0.01). Our results show that, by means of the immunocytochemistry for GFAP, tumor cells in human high-grade gliomas can be divided into two groups expressing GFAP or not, and that the mean number of Ag-NORs of GFAP-negative cells is more representative of the degree of histological malignancy than that of positive cells. It is considered that the proliferative assessment of GFAP-negative tumor cells in high-grade gliomas by combined staining of Ag-NOR silver staining and GFAP immunocytochemistry is useful for understanding the histological malignancy of high-grade gliomas. 
Twenty-four-hour variation of blood pressure in vascular dementia of the Binswanger type. Using a noninvasive portable blood pressure recorder, we compared 24-hour variations of blood pressure among 1) 35 patients with Binswanger-type dementia, 2) 43 with lacunar-type dementia, 3) 26 with a single lacunar stroke, and 4) 30 controls. Each group was divided into antihypertensive-treated and -untreated subgroups. Among the untreated subgroups, patients with Binswanger-type dementia had significantly greater 24-hour mean systolic blood pressures, 24-hour systolic blood pressure standard deviations, and maximal systolic blood pressure variations than the controls (p less than 0.05). Among the treated patients, blood pressure variability increased similarly in all subgroups with cerebrovascular lesions compared with the controls (p less than 0.05). The nocturnal blood pressure decreases seen in the controls were absent among both untreated and treated patients with Binswanger- or lacunar-type dementia (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest the importance of hypertension, short-term variations in blood pressure, and a sustained nighttime elevation of blood pressure for the pathogenesis of both Binswanger-type and lacunar-type dementia in patients receiving antihypertensive medication. 
Radial nerve paralysis and tumor. This paper presents ten cases of radial nerve paralysis because of tumor and reviews 38 previously reported cases. The tumor distribution was 35 lipomas, four neurofibromas, four ganglions, three neuromas, one fibroma, and one neurilemoma. Malignant tumors are not discussed in this review. Electromyography is of value if diagnostic problems occur. Postoperative results are normally good. 
Dynamic F waves in neurogenic claudication. Serial F waves were elicited before and after ambulation in 2 patients with neurogenic claudication. In both patients dynamic changes in F wave parameters consisting of either unelicitability or increased latencies occurred postexercise. The time course of these changes and their subsequent rapid reversibility over 15 minutes suggest ischemic-induced conduction block and slowing in proximal motor axons. These physiological changes may account for some of the dynamic neurological symptoms of this disorder. Moreover, F wave exercise testing may provide corroborative information for the diagnosis of neurogenic claudication. 
Ten-year survivors after surgical treatment and perioperative irradiation for esophageal carcinoma. Ten of 150 patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and surgically treated, survived for more than 10 years. All 10 underwent a complete resection of the primary tumor and extensive lymph node dissection plus perioperative irradiation. The clinicopathologic findings in these 10 patients were reviewed. Five were female. Seven of the tumors exceeded 6 cm in length; seven were early stage, and the remaining three were advanced stage tumors. Lymph node metastases were evident in three, lymph vessel permeation was recognized in four, and no vascular vessel permeation was seen in any tumor. Two tumors had a characteristic appearance of carcinoma with lymphoid stroma, suggesting a good prognosis. In six for which cytophotometric DNA analysis could be done, four were type II, two were type III, and none was type IV. Thus, a complete resection of the primary tumor and extensive lymph node dissection can lead to a long survival time even for those with an advanced primary esophageal carcinoma. 
Determination of prostate volume by transrectal ultrasound. Estimation of prostate gland volume with transrectal ultrasound may provide important information in the evaluation of benign and malignant prostatic diseases. To determine the most accurate means of volume estimation 150 patients underwent transrectal ultrasound with 15 separate methods of volume estimation. All patients underwent subsequent radical prostatectomy or cystoprostatectomy. Prostate specimen weights were compared with the results of each volume estimation method. Step-section planimetry, previously assumed to be the most accurate means of volume measurement, exhibited a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.93. The elliptical volume, widely used as an alternative to planimetry, demonstrated a correlation coefficient of 0.90. The most accurate method to estimate prostate weight (r = 0.94) was a variation of the prolate spheroid formula, expressed as pi/6 (transverse dimension)2 (anteroposterior dimension). When different volume ranges were considered, this prolate spheroid formula provided the closest estimate of weight in glands of less than 40 gm. and those in the 40 to 80 gm. range. The most accurate method to estimate prostates weighing greater than 80 gm. was the formula pi/6 (transverse dimension)3. 
Endoscopic therapy for early colon cancer: the strip biopsy resection technique. Strip biopsy is an endoscopic tissue resection technique in which a lesion and its surrounding tissues are first elevated using physiological saline. The saline solution is injected into the submucosa at the site of the lesion with the help of needle forceps. A snare is placed around the elevated tissue, which is then resected endoscopically by electrocoagulation. The specimen obtained includes both submucosal and mucosal tissues. The authors used this technique to resect a total of 71 lesions of the colon. They were classified histologically as 21 adenocarcinomas, 46 adenomas, 3 metaplastic polyps, and 1 juvenile polyp. All lesions were confirmed to be entirely intramucosal by histological examination. The strip biopsy technique permits resection of tissue down to the submucosal layer regardless of the morphological type of the lesion. This suggests that strip biopsy is an effective new form of endoscopic treatment for early colon cancer. 
Fecal carriage of Streptococcus bovis and colorectal adenomas. An association between fecal carriage of Streptococcus bovis and colorectal carcinoma has been reported. A relationship between S. bovis and colorectal adenomas has also been suggested. In the present study, the relationship between S. bovis and adenomas was investigated. Two of 18 current adenoma patients (11%) were found to have S. bovis in their stool compared with 12 of 84 controls (14%). Six of 38 patients who had ever had a diagnosis of adenoma (16%) had S. bovis compared with 8 of 64 controls (13%). These results rule out a strong association between fecal carriage of S. bovis and adenomas; however, because of the relatively small sample size, a weak to moderate association cannot be excluded. 
Eicosanoids regulate tumor necrosis factor synthesis after hemorrhage in vitro and in vivo. The aim of this investigation was to determine whether PGE2 regulates TNF release in vitro and in vivo following hemorrhage. To study this, C3H/HeN mice were bled to a mean blood pressure (BP) of 35 mm Hg, maintained for 60 minutes, and then resuscitated. For in vitro studies, peritoneal (pM phi) and splenic (sM phi) macrophages obtained at 2 hours and 24 hours after hemorrhage were stimulated with LPS for 24 or 48 hours with or without ibuprofen (IBU). For in vivo studies, M phi were harvested 24 hours following hemorrhage with and without IBU treatment and stimulated with LPS for 48 hours. The decreased TNF release by pM phi but not sM phi from hemorrhaged mice was restored by IBU in vitro. IBU treatment in vivo significantly enhanced TNF release by pM phi compared with untreated hemorrhaged animals, while TNF release by sM phi was only slightly increased. These data indicate a major role of PGE2 in the regulation of TNF release by pM phi following hemorrhage. 
Sex hormones in postmenopausal women with primary biliary cirrhosis. To evaluate serum sex hormone profiles in nonalcoholic postmenopausal women with liver disease, 25 women with primary biliary cirrhosis (11 in cirrhotic stage) and 46 healthy controls were studied. The patients had significantly (p less than 0.05) elevated serum concentrations of estrone and androstenedione and significantly (p less than 0.05) lower concentrations of estrone sulfate, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone compared with the 46 controls. Serum concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin, testosterone, non-sex hormone binding globulin-bound testosterone and non-protein-bound testosterone did not differ significantly (p greater than 0.05) between primary biliary cirrhosis patients and controls. Patients in the cirrhotic stage had significantly (p less than 0.05) higher concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin than did controls. Patients in the cirrhotic stage had significantly (p less than 0.05) higher sex hormone binding globulin and estrone sulfate levels compared with noncirrhotic patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Otherwise, no significant differences were observed between cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients. The observed changes in steroid concentrations may be a consequence of hepatic dysfunction. 
DNA image cytometry of keratoacanthoma and squamous cell carcinoma. The distinction between the keratoacanthoma (KA) and the squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) can sometimes be difficult on the basis of histologic and clinical criteria. The possible diagnostic significance of DNA ploidy initiated the present study evaluating the DNA ploidy in paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 7 KA and 15 SCC, and fresh frozen tissue touch preparations of 15 of the same cases using the CAS 200 Image Analyzer. In paraffin-embedded tissue sections the main peak DNA index was based on normal epidermis, and ranged from 1.03 to 1.59 in KA and from 1.47-2.71 in SCC. The DNA Index (DI) discriminated KA from SCC in 17 of 22 cases (p less than 0.0007). The highest DNA content of single nuclei ranged from 9.0-18.0 picograms (pg) (DI 2.9-6.03) in KA and 14.8-38.6 pg (DI 4.0-11.03) in SCC. The highest DNA content discriminated KA from SCC in 16 of 22 cases (p less than 0.003). In fresh frozen tissue touch preparations from 15 of the same lesions, there was considerable overlap in DNA indices of KA (0.534-1.39) and SCC (0.464-1.41). Abnormal DNA peaks seen in histograms from three SCC in paraffin-embedded tissue sections were lost in the touch preparation histograms, probably due to inadequate sampling. Therefore, image analysis of paraffin-embedded tissue sections is better able to distinguish KA from SCC than touch preparations. 
The physician's responsibilities: residua and sequelae. Cardiologists assuming responsibility for adults with congenital heart disease must have knowledge of electrophysiologic, valvular (native valves), prosthetic (valves, patches and conduits), ventricular (especially chamber function), vascular (especially elevated pulmonary vascular resistance) and noncardiovascular residua and sequelae. Acquired cardiac and noncardiac diseases coexist in older adults with postoperative congenital heart disease and add to the physician's responsibilities. 
Use of a guideline based questionnaire to audit hospital care of acute asthma. OBJECTIVES--To design an audit questionnaire and pilot its use by an audit assistant to monitor inpatient management of acute asthma and to compare the care given by chest physicians and general physicians. DESIGN--Retrospective review by a chest physician and audit assistant of a random sample of 76 case records of patients by a criterion based questionnaire developed from hospital guidelines on management of acute asthma. SETTING--One district general hospital. PATIENTS--76 adult patients with acute asthma: 38 admitted with a relevant primary diagnosis between April 1988 and March 1989 and a further 38 admitted through the accident and emergency department between April 1989 and March 1990. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Conformity with recognised standards for assessment and management of acute asthma before and after the audit and by chest physicians and general physicians. RESULTS--Age and sex did not differ significantly between the different groups of patients. Overall, deviations from the guidelines occurred in recording measures of severity of asthma, emergency treatment with beta 2 agonists (60/76, 79%) and steroids (43/76, 57%), and prescription of antibiotics in accordance with at least one criterion of the guidelines (29/45, 64%). Chest physicians were more rigorous than general physicians in recording severity measures, especially serum potassium concentration (chi 2 = 3.6, df = 1, p = 0.06), emergency steroid treatment within the correct period (chi 2 = 3.9, df = 1, p = 0.05), and referral for follow up at an outpatient chest clinic. Recording of arterial blood gas tensions improved significantly between the 1988-9 and 1989-90 samples (chi 2 = 7.0, df = 1, p = 0.08). CONCLUSIONS--The questionnaire proved easy to use for both doctor and audit assistant. The audit improved few standards of care and emphasises the need for further reinforcement and feedback. 
Surgical removal of massive subretinal hemorrhage associated with age-related macular degeneration. The authors report on 11 patients with age-related macular degeneration associated with massive subretinal hemorrhage, who were treated with surgical removal of the hemorrhage and associated fibrosis. Preoperative visual acuity ranged from 20/400 to hand motions. Postoperative visual acuity ranged from 20/200 to light perception with a minimum of 3 months of follow-up. Complications included partial or total retinal detachment in four patients (36%) and cataract in four patients (36%). Four of 11 patients showed some improvement in vision (36%). All four of these patients had surgery within 1 week of the onset of severe visual loss. Although surgical removal of large subretinal hemorrhages is technically feasible, visual recovery is limited, even in uncomplicated cases, by macular degenerative changes. 
Bilateral parotid secondaries from primary bronchial carcinoid tumour. Three years following a right lower lobectomy for primary carcinoid tumour of the bronchus, a patient presented with bilateral parotid masses. On investigation, both these were shown to be carcinoid tumours, consistent with metastatic spread from the primary bronchial tumour. This unique case is presented together with a discussion of the diagnostic methods employed. 
Serious infections involving the CDC group Ve bacteria Chryseomonas luteola and Flavimonas oryzihabitans. Chryseomonas luteola and Flavimonas oryzihabitans are phenotypically similar gram-negative bacilli and are also referred to as CDC groups Ve-1 and Ve-2, respectively. These bacteria are rarely reported as pathogens in humans. Infections described in the literature include primarily bacteremia in critically ill patients and peritonitis in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. We describe three cases of polymicrobial infection secondary to infection with group Ve organisms, including the first reported case (to our knowledge) of CNS infection due to F. oryzihabitans. These three cases and a review of literature suggest an association between the presence of indwelling catheters and polymicrobial infections with CDC group Ve organisms. F. oryzihabitans and C. luteola should be added to the expanding list of nosocomial pathogens with a propensity to infect critically ill patients who have undergone surgical procedures and/or had indwelling catheters placed. The isolation of either of these organisms from clinical specimens should prompt a search for a device-related source. 
Staphylococcus epidermidis induces complement activation, tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1, a shock-like state and tissue injury in rabbits without endotoxemia. Comparison to Escherichia coli. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and IL-1 are thought to mediate many of the pathophysiologic changes of endotoxemia and Gram-negative bacteremia. In these studies, heat-killed Staphylococcus epidermidis were infused into rabbits to determine whether an endotoxin (LPS)-free microorganism also elicits cytokinemia and the physiologic abnormalities seen in Gram-negative bacteremia. S. epidermidis induced complement activation, circulating TNF and IL-1, and hypotension to the same degree as did one-twentieth the number of heat-killed Escherichia coli. Circulating IL-1 beta levels had a greater correlation coefficient (r = 0.81, P less than 0.001) with the degree of hypotension than TNF levels (r = 0.48, P less than 0.02). Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, diffuse pulmonary capillary aggregation of neutrophils, and hepatic necrosis with neutrophil infiltration were observed to the same extent after either S. epidermidis or E. coli infusion. However, S. epidermidis infusion did not induce significant (less than 60 pg/ml) endotoxemia, whereas E. coli infusion resulted in high (11,000 pg/ml) serum endotoxin levels. S. epidermidis, E. coli, LPS, or S. epidermidis-derived lipoteichoic acid (LTA) induced TNF and IL-1 from blood mononuclear cells in vitro. E. coli organisms and LPS were at least 100-fold more potent than S. epidermidis or LTA. Thus, a shock-like state with similar levels of complement activation as well as circulating levels of IL-1 and TNF were observed following either S. epidermidis or E. coli. These data provide further evidence that host factors such as IL-1 and TNF are common mediators of the septic shock syndrome regardless of the organism. 
Independent genetic determinants of pancreatic and pulmonary status in cystic fibrosis The concordance of pancreatic and pulmonary status among siblings with cystic fibrosis, the cystic fibrosis genotype, and non-genetic factors were analysed in adult patients with cystic fibrosis. Genetic factors were more important than non-genetic factors in affecting the severity of pancreatic and lung disease. The genetic factors were independent of each other and did not invariably cosegregate with specific mutations at the cystic fibrosis locus. 
Pathogenetic mechanism of stroke in non-valvular atrial fibrillation: follow-up of stroke patients with and without atrial fibrillation. Stroke patients with brain infarction and non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF, n = 88) or sinus rhythm (SR, n = 188), treated at a population-based stroke unit, were studied for 5 years. Within 1 month, 13% of NVAF and 2% of SR patients (P less than 0.01) had either a stroke recurrence or systemic embolism. After 5 years, the corresponding figures were 26 and 25%, respectively. The 1-month and 5-year mortality values were 35 and 78% in the NVAF group vs. 7 and 52% in the SR group (P less than 0.01). Age, ischaemic heart disease and function group on arrival at the hospital were independent risk factors for death. The main cause of death was ischaemic heart disease in the NVAF group, and complications to the initial stroke or a stroke recurrence in the SR group. Thus a higher risk of death, stroke recurrence and peripheral embolism was evident only during the first month after stroke. 
Self-reported sleep quality in HIV infection: correlation to the stage of infection and zidovudine therapy. We investigated self-reported sleep quality in a group of 50 patients in different stages of HIV-1 infection by using a standardized questionnaire (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index). Alterations of sleep were found to be significantly correlated with the most severe stage of infection in AIDS patients. Analysis of data failed to indicate a significant influence of zidovudine on self-reported sleep quality. 
Life-threatening cervico-mediastinal haematoma after carotid sinus massage. Retropharyngeal and cervico-mediastinal haematomas are rare but potentially fatal entities. The potential for airway compression necessitates rapid assessment and treatment. A cervico-mediastinal haematoma following carotid sinus massage which required cervical drainage is presented. This is a life-threatening event demanding a high index of suspicion. A review of the literature and indications for treatment are discussed. 
Turbinate hypertrophy in habitual snorers and patients with obstructive sleep apnea: findings of acoustic rhinometry. Forty-five habitual snorers (mean respiratory disturbance index = 6) and 22 patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (mean respiratory disturbance index = 36) were examined by polysomnography, radiocephalometry, rhinomanometry, nasopharyngeal videoendoscopy, and acoustic rhinometry. In 97% of these patients, hypertrophy of the inferior nasal turbinates was found by acoustic rhinometry, while increased nasal resistance of various degrees was measured in 93% of all patients by active anterior rhinomanometry. Acoustic rhinometry demonstrated that the most resistive segment was located in the anterior parts of the nasal cavity and was built up by two compartments: the region of the isthmus nasi and the region of the head of the inferior turbinate. In our snoring patients, the cross-sectional areas at the head of the inferior turbinate were always smaller than the cross-sectional areas in the isthmus nasi, which in normal controls presented the minimal cross-sectional values of the whole nasal cavity. While rhino-manometry can only measure the amount of nasal resistance, acoustic rhinometry can clearly determine the exact size and location of the different stenoses in the nasal cavity that contribute to the increased nasal resistance. 
Real-time digital contrast enhancement and magnification in the assessment of acute elbow injuries. The elbow is a common site of injury and missed fractures may lead to disability and litigation. An assessment was made of a commercially available desk-top digital contrast enhancement and magnification unit (DETECT system) in a series of 320 patients with an acute elbow injury. Five radiologists of varying experience independently viewed elbow radiographs on a conventional light-box, and subsequently using the digitizer, indicating the presence or absence of a fracture. The overall results demonstrated no difference in performance when using the unit, though small improvements in the confidence with which a definite diagnosis was made were observed. Assessment of soft tissues with the digitizer was less reliable. 
Percutaneous iliac artery stent: angiographic long-term follow-up. The authors conducted a prospective study of 49 consecutive patients with 53 lesions in 52 iliac arteries. All were treated between October 1987 and April 1990 with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and insertion of either a self-expandable or balloon-expandable stent. Lesions included total occlusion (28%), dissection (42%), post-PTA restenosis (21%), and unsatisfactory PTA (9%). Complications included one aortic protrusion, one acute thrombosis of the stent (resolved with urokinase), and three distal embolizations (5.7%) (resolved with urokinase and aspiration). During 15 months of follow-up, two patients died (one after occlusion). Three other occlusions occurred; one of these was resolved with local thrombolysis. Hyperplasia occurred in seven cases (13.5%), and stenosis occurred at the end of the stent because of incomplete covering of the lesion in three (5.8%); a complementary procedure was performed in six of these cases. Primary patency was 85.3% at 12 months and 80.9% at 18 months; secondary patency rate was 96.1% at 12 and at 18 months. At the end of the study, excluding data for the two patients who died, 27 limbs (54%) were asymptomatic and improvement was achieved in 19 (38%); the clinical success rate was 92%. No amputations were required. 
Early heparin therapy in patients with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage. In 68 patients with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage the effect of heparin treatment beginning on the second, fourth or tenth day was investigated. Early (day 2) low-dose heparin medication significantly lowered the incidence of pulmonary embolism. An increase in the number of patients with rebleeding was not observed. The results indicate that the early use of heparin in these patients is safe and can be recommended for the prevention of thromboembolic complications. 
Transtelephonic electrocardiographic monitoring of cardiac rehabilitation exercise sessions in coronary artery disease. Transtelephonic monitoring of a single-lead electrocardiogram and on-demand 2-way voice communication were accomplished at 1,865 exercise sessions for 67 cardiac patients. Exercise sessions occurred either at the patients' homes or at remote hospital sites and began an average of 25 or 14 weeks, respectively, after hospital dismissal. Monitoring centers provided experienced nurses to direct all exercise sessions. The transtelephonic monitoring equipment was reliable with only one instance of system failure observed. A broad spectrum of patients with coronary artery disease, including some classified at higher risk, participated in the program. Patients exercised with a variety of equipment (cycle ergometer, treadmill, arm ergometer, cross-country ski simulator, combination arm-leg cycle ergometer, rowing machine), for 30 to 50 minutes, 1 to 3 times each week. No medical emergencies occurred, although 18 specific problems were discovered that led to further evaluation or change in the medical program of specific patients. Transtelephonic monitoring of cardiac rehabilitation exercise sessions at home and at remote hospitals appears safe and is attractive because not all patients have access to supervised exercise programs; this exercise assessment helps to maximally use highly trained cardiac rehabilitation personnel. 
Epilepsy and brain tumors: implications for treatment. Primary intraparenchymal tumors of the brain are important etiologic factors in partial or focal epilepsy. Indolent low-grade gliomas may be associated with a long-standing seizure disorder refractory to medical treatment. Surgical resection of the neoplasm and the epileptogenic area may render patients seizure-free. Removal of the tumor alone may also be associated with an excellent survival rate and surgical outcome. Conventional neurosurgical procedures are restricted in patients with tumors that are deep-seated lesions or involve functional cerebral cortex. Computer-assisted stereotactic surgical procedures have been developed for biopsy and resection of intra-axial brain-mass lesions. Stereotactic tumor resection may allow pathological determination of intracranial lesions and produce a worthwhile reduction in seizure activity in some patients with intractable partial epilepsy. 
Ibopamine in the treatment of heart failure. Efficacy and safety of a drug are essential criteria to be fulfilled before a new drug receives recommendation. This review focuses on the safety of ibopamine in the treatment of chronic heart failure. Ibopamine is a new, orally active drug with a predominant action on dopaminergic adrenoceptors. As a result, it reduces systemic vascular resistance, increases cardiac output, and increases renal flow. Ibopamine also modulates the neuroendocrine reflexes in heart failure; plasma renin activity and norepinephrine and aldosterone plasma concentrations are reduced, both immediately and during sustained administration. Ibopamine has proved to be safe in many thousands of heart failure patients during long-term therapy. This argues well for its use as an alternative or additive therapy in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure. 
Prospective randomized evaluation of ciprofloxacin versus piperacillin plus amikacin for empiric antibiotic therapy of febrile granulocytopenic cancer patients with lymphomas and solid tumors. The European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer International Antimicrobial Therapy Cooperative Group. Empiric therapy for febrile granulocytopenic patients is mandatory, but whether monotherapy is a safe alternative and whether fluoroquinolones are useful agents for this indication are still controversial issues. The use of monotherapy with intravenous ciprofloxacin (200 to 300 mg every 12 h) was evaluated against combined therapy with piperacillin plus amikacin in febrile granulocytopenic patients with solid tumor or lymphoma. The study was discontinued prematurely because patients treated with ciprofloxacin had a significantly lower overall success rate than patients treated with piperacillin plus amikacin (31 of 48 patients [65%] versus 48 of 53 patients [91%], P = 0.002). Patients with gram-positive coccal bacteremia had a particularly poor outcome: therapy failed for six of eight patients (75%) treated with ciprofloxacin, while therapy failed for none of four patients treated with piperacillin plus amikacin. Death from primary infection during initially randomized protocol therapy occurred in 7 of 48 patients (14.5%) treated with ciprofloxacin and in 3 of 53 (6%) treated with piperacillin plus amikacin. This study does not support the use of this dose of intravenous ciprofloxacin as empiric monotherapy for fever in granulocytopenic patients. 
Myocardial reperfusion injury. Platelet-activating factor stimulates polymorphonuclear leukocyte hydrogen peroxide production during myocardial reperfusion. To study the roles of platelet-activating factor, polymorphonuclear leukocytes, and oxygen free radicals in myocardial reperfusion injury, we subjected 10 sheep to 90 minutes of mid-left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 6 hours of reperfusion. Stainings with gentian violet and tetratriphenyl ammonium chloride demonstrated 20% +/- 3% of the left ventricular mass at risk for ischemia, of which 75% +/- 10% underwent infarction. Coronary sinus blood was assayed for platelet-activating factor and neutrophil hydrogen peroxide production before and during coronary occlusion and during reperfusion. Platelet-activating factor was isolated by column chromatography and lipid extraction and quantified by radioimmunoassay. Neutrophil hydrogen peroxide production was measured by a 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein flow-cytometric assay. Platelet-activating factor was elevated to 899 +/- 210 pg/ml at 15 minutes of reperfusion, compared with the preocclusion level of 271 +/- 55 pg/ml and coronary occlusion level of 359 +/- 64 pg/ml (p less than 0.05; analysis of variance). Neutrophil hydrogen peroxide production, measured on a relative fluorescence scale, was also elevated to a level of 141 +/- 27 at 1 hour of reperfusion, compared with the preocclusion level of 103 +/- 6 and the coronary occlusion level of 114 +/- 13 (p less than 0.01; analysis of variance). Both of these parameters returned toward baselines at the end of 6 hours of reperfusion. Histologic examination revealed infiltration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes into the interstitium of the reperfused myocardium. Neutrophils isolated from unoperated and healthy sheep demonstrated a graded dose response in hydrogen peroxide production when stimulated by purified platelet-activating factor in vitro. These findings suggest that platelet-activating factor is released in the coronary circulation and is a mediator of oxygen free radical production in polymorphonuclear leukocytes during myocardial reperfusion. 
Have general hospitals become chronic care institutions for the mentally ill? OBJECTIVE: Dramatic increases in lengths of stay for general hospital psychiatric patients in New York City in recent years have raised speculation that general hospitals are assuming a large responsibility for care of the chronically mentally ill. This study examines changes in utilization patterns and patient characteristics to assess whether such a trend is occurring. METHOD: The authors obtained discharge abstract data for all New York City general hospital adult psychiatric patients in 1985 and 1988 as well as utilization data from the public general hospital system for 1977-1989. Three measures of chronicity were chosen: hospital stays longer than 60 days, discharges to long-term care, and three or more admissions per year. Data on psychiatric diagnoses and comorbid diagnoses for chronically ill patients were also reviewed. RESULTS: The mean length of stay of psychiatric patients in general hospitals has increased substantially in recent years and nearly tripled in the public hospitals during 1977-1989. Between 1985 and 1988, citywide increases were due largely to a growing proportion of patients with very long stays. Patients with stays longer than 60 days accounted for 35% of all inpatient days in 1988, compared with 27% in 1985. Patients with chronic illness accounted for half of all days in 1988, compared with 38% in 1985. CONCLUSIONS: Although many factors have contributed to these trends, the leading cause has been reimbursement policies favoring short-term inpatient care. Improving accountability for community treatment programs will be the key to redirecting funding priorities and creating more appropriate alternatives for the chronically mentally ill. 
Failure of early electrocardiogram to predict successful thrombolysis. Effect of stunned myocardium? We investigated the value of the modified Selvester QRS score in predicting reperfusion in 74 patients with an acute myocardial infarction who were treated with intravenous streptokinase. Coronary angiography and time to peak creatine kinase level were used to determine the success of thrombolytic therapy. At 6 weeks a significant difference was seen between the QRS score of the patients in whom thrombolysis was successful compared with those in whom there was no reperfusion. There was, however, no difference between the QRS score of these groups of patients at 1 week. The ejection fraction at 1 week was 60% and 51%, respectively. The failure of the early electrocardiogram to predict reperfusion and improved left ventricular function may be a consequence of the stunned myocardium. 
Lack of gastric acid rebound after stopping a successful short-term course of nizatidine in duodenal ulcer patients. To assess whether there is rebound of gastric acidity after a short-term course of H2-receptor antagonists, we performed a 24-h in situ pH monitoring on 17 duodenal ulcer patients before, during, and after completing 4 wks' treatment with nizatidine 300 mg at bedtime (2200 h). Three around-the-clock continuous intragastric pH-metries were carried out the day before beginning treatment, at the end of the nizatidine course, and 67 h after the last dose of the drug was given. Nizatidine produced mean pH values that were significantly higher (p less than 0.001) than those of the pretreatment profile during both the whole 24-h period and the nighttime (2400-0759), and this confirms that it effectively inhibited gastric acidity. Conversely, there was no significant difference between the acidity indexes of pH profiles obtained before dosing and after discontinuing treatment in any of the time intervals considered. Therefore, it appears that a short term course of nizatidine therapy does not cause rebound hyperacidity in duodenal ulcer patients. 
PET measurements of hyperthermia-induced suppression of protein synthesis in tumors in relation to effects on tumor growth. Hyperthermia-induced metabolic changes in tumor tissue have been monitored by PET. Uptake of L-[1-11C]tyrosine in rhabdomyosarcoma tissue of Wag/Rij rats was dose-dependently reduced after local hyperthermia treatment at 42, 45, or 47 degrees C. Tumor blood flow, as measured by PET with 13NH3, appeared to be unchanged. The L-[1-11C]tyrosine uptake data were compared to uptake data of L-[1-14C]tyrosine and with data on the incorporation of L-[1-14C]tyrosine into tumor proteins. After intravenous injection, the 14C data were obtained from dissected tumor tissue. Heat-induced inhibition of the incorporation of L-[1-14C]tyrosine into tumor proteins tallied with the L-[1-11C]tyrosine uptake data. Heat-induced inhibition of amino acid uptake in the tumor correlated well with regression of tumor growth. It is concluded that PET using L-[1-11C]tyrosine is eligible for monitoring the effect of hyperthermia on tumor growth. 
Aortic valve reconstruction in Rubinstein-Taybi-syndrome: the valuable aid of transesophageal echocardiography. A fourteen year old boy with Rubinstein-Taybi-syndrome presented with a severe congenital subvalvular fibrous aortic stenosis with associated aortic regurgitation. Transthoracic echocardiographic imaging and left heart angiography showed a transvalvular peak systolic pressure gradient of 90 mmHg and a regurgitant fraction of 30%. The surgical treatment consisted of resection of the subvalvular fibrous tissue and subsequent aortic valvuloplasty. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography revealed a wide systolic opening of the aortic valve and good coaptation of the aortic valve leaflets in diastole. Two-dimensional color-coded and contrast echocardiography were successfully used to confirm a satisfactory reconstruction. Transesophageal echocardiography therefore represents a valuable tool in the assessment of the morphologic and haemodynamic status, especially in rare cases of congenital heart disease in older children. 
Histologic observations and P-glycoprotein expression in gastric and esophageal adenocarcinomas treated with preoperative chemotherapy. To describe histologic changes associated with chemotherapy response, we reviewed biopsy and resection specimens from 52 patients with locally advanced esophageal or gastric adenocarcinoma who were treated with preoperative chemotherapy, followed by resection. P-Glycoprotein expression in the adenocarcinomas was also determined with the use of antibody C219. Significant changes in morphologic appearance of the tumor between prechemotherapy and postchemotherapy samples was noted in 17 tumors (32.7%). The most frequent changes observed in these 17 tumors were a decrease in tumor cellularity and an increase in dense fibrosis in comparison with the prechemotherapy specimen. In signet-ring cell carcinomas, the intracytoplasmic mucin vacuoles were often smaller after chemotherapy, making tumor cells more difficult to identify. Another finding observed in tumors that showed histologic alteration after chemotherapy was the formation of large mucin pools that contained lymphocytes and macrophages. The remaining 35 tumors showed similar histologic features in prechemotherapy and postchemotherapy specimens. P-Glycoprotein was identified in 15 (29.4%) of 51 specimens after chemotherapy. P-Glycoprotein content of the residual tumors did not correlate with stage, degree of differentiation, or clinically determined chemotherapy response. We concluded that chemotherapy-induced changes in morphology were frequent in patients with upper gastrointestinal tract adenocarcinomas treated with preoperative chemotherapy. These changes should be recognized as they may cause difficulties in both gross and histologic evaluation of the extent of tumor in postchemotherapy resection specimens. The response of adenocarcinomas to this chemotherapy protocol does not appear to be linked to P-glycoprotein expression. 
Surgical options in 424 patients with primary breast cancer without systemic metastases. Mastectomy was dictated by medical considerations in about 40% of 424 consecutive patients who had invasive breast cancer with no evidence of systemic metastases. Half of the women considered suitable for local excision of the breast cancer followed by radiotherapy (conservation) elected to have mastectomy, and intraoperative findings dictated mastectomy in about 20% of those electing conservation. Consequently, conservation was accomplished in about one quarter of those treated for breast cancer. Younger rather than older women more frequently expressed the desire for breast conservation. 
The EEG as a monitor of midazolam amnesia: changes in power and topography as a function of amnesic state. In order to identify EEG parameters that might be specific for identifying amnesia during midazolam infusion, we examined changes in the EEG power spectrum associated with a period of amnesia, determined by inability to recall a sequence of numbers and objects presented verbally, after intravenous midazolam 0.07 mg/kg in ten normal volunteers. Measurements were taken at baseline, during infusion immediately before and after the onset of amnesia, immediately at end of infusion, and 0.5 and 1.5 h after infusion. All subjects had onset of amnesia during infusion, were completely amnesic by the end of infusion, partially amnesic 0.5 h after infusion, and had complete recall by 1.5 h after infusion. The EEG beta power increased and alpha power decreased during amnesic periods. The beta 1/alpha power ratio was the parameter most specific for amnesia. From a baseline value of 0.20 +/- 0.05 (standard error of the mean [SEM]), it increased to 0.96 +/- 0.26 at the end of infusion and decreased to 0.61 +/- 0.15 0.5 h after infusion. By 1.5 h after infusion, all EEG parameters had returned to baseline values. Beta power changes associated with midazolam amnesia were most pronounced in the Fz and Cz lead positions, and alpha power changes were most pronounced in the Oz position. We conclude that 1) EEG power values, particularly the beta 1/alpha ratio, can identify periods of amnesia after midazolam infusion; 2) specific EEG changes and the presence of amnesia vary with the probable serum concentration of midazolam; and 3) the characteristic EEG pattern during partial or complete amnesia varies as one moves across the cerebral cortex. 
Prophylactic sclerotherapy in high-risk cirrhotics selected by endoscopic criteria. A multicenter randomized controlled trial. Controlled trials of sclerotherapy for the prevention of the first variceal hemorrhage in cirrhotics have given conflicting results. In the present study, 106 cirrhotics were randomized to sclerotherapy (55 patients) or control group (51 patients). Admission criteria were no history of previous variceal bleeding and the presence of high-risk varices, i.e., a variceal score less than or equal to 0 according to Beppu et al. Sclerotherapy sessions were performed at time zero, 7 days, 30 days, and then monthly until eradication. Follow-up endoscopies were performed at 6-month intervals thereafter. Control patients underwent repeat endoscopy at 6-month intervals. Bleeding episodes were treated by sclerotherapy in both groups, whenever possible. Mean follow-up was 24 months. Analysis of the results was performed by the intention-to-treat method. Variceal bleeding occurred in 19 sclerotherapy patients (34.5%) and in 17 controls (35.4%, P = NS). Overall mortality was 34.5% in sclerotherapy patients and 50% in controls (P = NS). Seven of the 19 sclerotherapy patients (36.8%) and 11 of the 17 controls (64.7%) who bled died of hemorrhage (P less than 0.05, log-linear model). It is concluded that prophylactic sclerotherapy does not reduce the incidence of first variceal bleeding in cirrhotics. However, there seems to be a trend toward a lower bleeding-related mortality in sclerotherapy patients than in controls. 
Surgical treatment of carcinoid heart disease. Right heart failure in patients with carcinoid heart disease is a serious prognostic sign. Consideration and adequate timing of valvular operations seem essential for the postoperative outcome. Without any relation to duration or progression of the metastasizing tumor disease, right heart failure developed and increased rapidly for a period of 12 to 17 months in four patients with classic carcinoid syndrome. Invasive hemodynamic and cardiac ultrasound investigations revealed severe carcinoid heart disease, and medical decompensation treatment gradually failed. Tricuspid and pulmonic valve replacement operations resulted in dramatic improvement in three of the patients, and these patients were still free of cardiac symptoms 10, 12, and 38 months postoperatively. One patient died 5 days postoperatively probably of septicemia. The preoperative and postoperative development of the cardiac disease is evaluated clinically, by cardiac ultrasound and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations, and related to the tumor disease. Surgical anatomy and operative technique are reported, and the beneficial value of prophylactic treatment of the effects of tumor-released vasoactive substances by a somatostatin analog is emphasized. 
Role of percutaneous nephrostomy in patients with upper urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma. Percutaneous nephrostomy has become a well-established procedure for a wide variety of urologic disorders. However, its role in the management of patients with upper urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma has not been defined. We utilized percutaneous nephrostomy in 23 renal units for the evaluation or treatment of 21 patients in whom standard techniques were inconclusive or inadequate. The percutaneous nephrostomy provided adequate relief of obstruction in the face of significant azotemia or infection. Diagnostic abilities were improved through the use of antegrade pyelography, selective cytologic examination, and, at times, by providing direct access for endoscopic visualization and biopsy. In select cases, the percutaneous access provided a route for definitive or adjunctive treatment of the lesion. Complications were few and seeding of the tract or local tumor spread has not occurred at follow-up ranging from one to one hundred twenty-one (mean 27.8) months. 
Cricothyroid muscle responses to increased chemical drive in awake normal humans. To examine the response of the cricothyroid muscle (CT) to increased chemical drive, we measured its electromyogram simultaneously with that of the alae nasi (AN) in seven normal awake subjects. During both progressive hyperoxic hypercapnia and hypoxia, peak integrated inspiratory activity (moving time average, MTA) of the CT and AN increased as a power function of mean inspiratory flow (ratio of tidal volume to inspiratory time, VT/TI), given by MTA = a(VT/TI)b + c (where a, b, and c are constants). The exponent b varied from 0.009 to 3.4 among subjects but was correlated between CT and AN both during hypercapnia (r = 0.86) and hypoxia (r = 0.81). The onset of inspiratory activity of the CT and AN preceded that of inspiratory flow. Expressed as a percentage of expiratory time, the CT lead time rose from 7% at rest to 20% during hyperpnea. The corresponding values for the AN were from 22 to 52% (both P less than 0.03). Thus the pattern of response of the CT and AN is similar and related to that of the inspiratory muscles in a curvilinear manner. The findings suggest that during chemical stimulation the electrical activity of the CT is analogous to that of the AN, an upper airway dilator. 
The efficacy of fiberoptic endoscopic examination and biopsy in the detection of early nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Fiberoptic endoscopic examination and biopsy of the nasopharynx was done in 130 patients as a prospective study. They all had elevated titers of antibodies against the viral capsid antigen of Epstein-Barr virus but no symptoms or signs of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Each underwent a biopsy from six fixed sites in the nasopharynx. Of the 780 biopsy specimens taken from seven patients, 11 showed the presence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Techniques to improve the yields of such biopsies with fiberoptic endoscopy are discussed. The presence of tumor was unrelated to the macroscopic endoscopic findings. The highest incidence of subclinical tumor is in the pharyngeal recess. 
Special considerations in the physical exam of older patients. For diagnostic utility, aspects of the standard physical examination are modified for elderly patients. Special attention is paid to problems that interfere with function, such as gait disorders, incontinence, and hearing and visual loss. Certain findings in cardiac and pulmonary examinations of the elderly require different interpretations. The examination should include the head and neck, chest, back, abdomen, breasts and pelvic area in women, prostate in men, extremities, and skin, as well as mental status. A number of diagnostic maneuvers are used to distinguish changes of normal aging from those associated with disease. 
Intracranial metastasis from carcinoma of the paranasal sinus. Carcinomas of the paranasal sinuses are locally invasive tumors that only occasionally metastasize. The tumor may spread intracranially by local invasion through the dura into the frontal lobes and extension along the vidian nerve. We describe two cases of cerebellar metastasis in patients with local recurrence and discuss the mechanism of spreading. It is possible that more aggressive treatment of these tumors, which results in longer survival, may be associated with an increased incidence of intracranial metastasis. 
Natural course of clinically localized prostate adenocarcinoma in men less than 70 years old. A total of 61 patients, less than 70 years old at diagnosis, with clinical stage T1-2, NX, M0, cytologically well or moderately differentiated prostate adenocarcinoma was prospectively included in a surveillance study. Median patient age was 63 years (range 38 to 69 years). Mean followup was 96 +/- 24 months. The probability of local progression to stage T3 disease after 5 and 10 years was 49 and 72%, respectively. The probability of metastases developing after 5 and 10 years was 8 and 23%, respectively. The probability of dying of prostate adenocarcinoma was 2 and 8%, respectively. Moderately differentiated cancer progressed locally significantly faster than well differentiated disease. The relative number of patients who had metastases or died of prostate adenocarcinoma found in our study was comparable to the relative numbers reported after radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy. Therefore, deferred therapy may be an alternative to active therapy in patients with clinically localized prostate adenocarcinoma and with a life expectancy of less than 10 years. 
Hepatitis B vaccination programs for health care personnel in U.S. hospitals. A random sample of 232 U.S. hospitals was surveyed. Of those hospitals, 75 percent had hepatitis B vaccination programs. The presence of a program was associated with hospital size (60 percent of those with 100 beds, 75 percent with 100-499 beds, 90 percent with 500 or more beds; P = 0.0013) and hospital location (urban 86 percent; rural 57 percent; P less than 0.001). The frequency of needlestick exposures per month among hospital personnel and hospital location were directly related to and best predicted the existence of hepatitis B vaccination programs. All hospitals with programs offered vaccine to high-risk personnel (as defined by the hospital). Seventy-seven percent of hospitals paid all costs for vaccinating high-risk personnel; 19 percent paid for any employee to be vaccinated regardless of risk status. Forty-six percent of hospitals with programs were estimated to have vaccinated more than 10 percent of all eligible personnel, and 13 percent to have vaccinated more than 25 percent of eligible personnel. The highest compliance rates were associated with hospitals paying for the vaccine and requiring vaccination of high-risk personnel. Fifty-four percent of hospitals attributed noncompliance to concern regarding vaccine safety and effectiveness. The reasons why there was no vaccination program in 58 hospitals were (a) low incidence of hepatitis B virus infections among personnel, (b) cost of vaccine, and (c) vaccination being offered as part of a needlestick protocol. Full utilization of hepatitis B vaccine could eliminate the occupational hazard that hepatitis B virus presents to health care personnel. 
Acute effects of parenteral beta-blockade on regional ventricular function of infarct and noninfarct zones after reperfusion therapy in humans. Although the mechanism is unknown, clinical trials have suggested that intravenous beta-adrenergic blockade may prevent early cardiac rupture after myocardial infarction. Previous studies have examined effects of beta-blockers on global left ventricular function after myocardial infarction; however, few data exist regarding their immediate effects on regional function or in patients after successful reperfusion. Therefore, 65 patients in whom thrombolysis with or without coronary angioplasty achieved reperfusion at 4.6 +/- 1.7 h from symptom onset were studied. Low osmolarity contrast ventriculograms were obtained immediately before and after administration of 15 mg of intravenous metoprolol (n = 54) or placebo (n = 11). Intravenous metoprolol immediately decreased heart rate (from 92 to 76 beats/min, p less than 0.0001), increased left ventricular diastolic volume (from 150 to 163 ml, p less than 0.001) and systolic volume (from 72 to 77 ml, p less than 0.0005) but did not change systolic and diastolic pressures. Although there was no difference in ejection fraction after metoprolol, centerline chord analysis revealed reduced noninfarct zone motion (from 0.41 to 0.12 SD/chord, p less than 0.05), improved infarct zone motion (from -3.1 to -2.9 SD/chord, p less than 0.01) and smaller circumferential extent of hypokinesia (from 30 to 27 chords, p less than 0.05). Patients with dyskinesia of the infarct zone had the most striking improvement in infarct zone wall motion. Because these changes occurred immediately after beta-blockade, they could not be attributed to myocardial salvage. No significant changes in heart rate, left ventricular volumes or regional wall motion were apparent in the control group. 
The significance of venous return impairment in ischemic radiculopathy and myelopathy. Because much of the symptomatology consequent to the constrictive lesions of spinal degenerations may be the result of radicular neurischemia, medullary neurischemia, or both, the structure and responses of the nerve root vasculature to compression or tension are discussed. Although the original investigations concentrated on the arterial side of the radiculomedullary circulation, more recent research has indicated that the venous return phase is far more susceptible to the effects of both intraspinal and extraspinal pathologic conditions. 
Prognostic factors in the conservative treatment of ureteric stones. A prospective study was made of 125 ureteric stones in order to detect factors which would predict the successful outcome of conservative treatment. The factors studied were the duration of pain prior to presentation, pyuria, haematuria, surface regularity of the stone and the degree of obstruction as seen radiologically. In stones less than or equal to 10 mm in size, conservative treatment was successful when the duration of pain was less than 30 days (39/45), when there was no significant pyuria (53/82), when the stones had an irregular surface (44/65) and when obstruction was only partial (55/88). Since most of these factors were interactive, further statistical analysis showed that duration of pain was the only significant factor in predicting the outcome of conservative treatment. In stones greater than 10 mm in size these factors had no predictive value and only 2/23 were passed spontaneously on conservative treatment. 
Excess mortality among 3302 patients with 'pure' anxiety neurosis. The survival probability and causes of death before the age of 70 years were analyzed among 3302 inpatients with "pure" anxiety neurosis in Stockholm County, Sweden, who were tracked in case registries by means of automated record linkage during a 14-year period. When all patients with other psychiatric diagnoses and substance abuse were excluded, and marital status controlled for, there was a significant excess of deaths due to verified and undetermined suicides, ie, nearly one third of all deaths. These unnatural deaths preempted any excess in natural causes before the age of 70 years, such as cardiovascular disease. Treatment policy with regard to the use of anxiolytic drugs was not found to influence mortality. We concluded that the risk of suicide in inpatients before the age of 70 years with anxiety disorders may be as high as that in persons with depression or other diagnoses who require inpatient care. 
Correlations between histopathological and biological findings in nasopharyngeal carcinoma and its prognostic significance. Forty-five consecutive cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma were morphologically and immunocytochemically studied using monoclonal (anti-B and anti-T cell) and polyclonal (anti-S100 protein and antilysozyme) antibodies with the peroxidase-anti-peroxidase method to identify infiltrating lymphocytes (T and B cell) and histiocytes (monocytic/macrophagic and dendritic cells) in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. A variable density of dendritic cells was found within the tumor nests in 22 (49%) of 45 nasopharyngeal carcinomas examined; infiltrating macrophages were demonstrated in 15 (33%) specimens and around the tumor in almost all cases. Cases with moderate or marked density of dendritic cells (S100+) survived longer than those without such infiltration (mean 5-year survival rates of 31%, 55%, or 64% in patients with absent, moderate, or marked densities, respectively; P less than 0.05). A significant relationship between monocytic/macrophagic cells (lysozyme+) within the tumor and survival was also found (mean 5-year survival rate of 27% or 61% in patients with absent, moderate, or marked densities, respectively). However, lymphocytic infiltration was not statistically related to a better survival. Analyzing lymphocytic infiltration, we found a large prevalence of T cells in the neoplastic tissue without any prognostic significance. These data were correlated to different histological subtypes according to the principal histological classifications of nasopharyngeal carcinomas (Micheau, et al.; World Health Organization; Cologne University) to individualize the scheme which correlates best with prognosis and biological features of nasopharyngeal carcinomas. Our data suggest that, considering dendritic cells and macrophages within cancer nests, nasopharyngeal carcinoma histiotypes can be correlated to patient prognosis. 
Transureteroureterostomy and terminal loop cutaneous ureterostomy in advanced pelvic malignancies. Transureteroureterostomy was combined with terminal loop cutaneous ureterostomy, without complications, in 8 patients with advanced pelvic malignancy and a poor prognosis. Urinary diversion was palliative in all patients and followed pelvic exenteration in 4, debulking of pelvic tumor in 2 and radical cystectomy in 1, while 1 had inoperable bladder cancer. All patients had at least unilateral hydroureteronephrosis preoperatively. In each case a postoperative excretory urogram revealed significant improvement of the hydroureteronephrosis and the serum creatinine improved or stabilized. No patient had ureteral stomal stenosis or retraction. Mean survival was 5 months, with the longest survival being 1 year. Transureteroureterostomy in conjunction with terminal loop cutaneous ureterostomy is an effective technique of urinary diversion in selected patients with a poor prognosis and advanced pelvic malignancy, decreasing operative time while avoiding the morbidity associated with a ureterointestinal operation or nephrostomy. 
Quantitation of axon loss and conduction block in peroneal nerve palsies. We compared conduction in motor fibers supplying the extensor digitorum brevis (EDB) and anterior lateral compartment (AL) muscles. The object was to determine whether there were any differences in the relative proportions of degenerated and blocked nerve fibers between the longer EDB and shorter AL fibers. In almost every case the percentage of motor fibers undergoing axonal degeneration was greatest in EDB fibers. Conversely, the percentage of conduction block was greatest in the AL motor fibers. As clinical recovery is dependent on AL muscles rather than EDB, electrophysiological study of the relative proportions of degenerated and blocked fibers in the former should provide a more reliable measure of outcome than similar studies of EDB. Conduction velocity distal to the fibular head was not slowed despite the large loss of EDB motor fibers. Evidence for selective involvement of the larger myelinated fibers is, therefore, lacking. The location of the major conduction abnormalities was in almost every case between the mid-fibular head and popliteal fossa. 
Fourier analysis of the cerebrovascular system. We performed Fourier analysis of the middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity waveform envelope in 14 normal subjects (group A) and 15 patients, of whom five had arteriovenous malformations (group B), five had cerebral vasospasm (group C), and five had arterial hypertension (group D). Measurements were obtained under conditions of normocapnia, hypercapnia, and hypocapnia. The Fourier coefficients measured in the first five harmonics of the Doppler waveforms of group A were used as the reference baseline and were compared with the coefficients found in the other three groups. Group B showed significantly lower Fourier coefficients, while groups C and D showed higher coefficients (p less than 0.05). The elevation of the Fourier coefficients occurred in an alternating pattern in group C and a decremental pattern in group D. This distinction was attributed to possible differences in the underlying pathophysiological processes. The degree of vascular distensibility of the cerebral arterioles, inferred from the shape of the Fourier analysis curves, was compared in all four groups. Vascular distensibility was characterized as abnormal in arteriovenous malformations, vasospasm, and arterial hypertension. Fourier coefficients may be better indicators of cerebrovascular abnormalities than mean blood flow velocity in hypertension and pulsatility index in arteriovenous malformations, vasospasm, and hypertension. 
Mouse bronchiolar cell carcinogenesis. Histologic characterization and expression of Clara cell antigen in lesions induced by N-nitrosobis-(2-chloroethyl) ureas. Female Swiss mice (Cr:NIH(S)) developed bronchiolar cell hyperplasia, dysplasia, metaplasia, and various morphologic types of bronchiolar cell tumors after topical (skin) application of N-nitroso-methyl-bis-chloroethylurea (NMBCU) or N-nitroso-tris-chloroethylurea (NTCU). These compounds are the first found to induce systemically bronchiolar cell tumors in mice in high incidence. Twice a week, with a 3-day interval, a 25-microliter drop of 0.04 mol/l (molar) NMBCU or NTCU in acetone was applied to the shaved interscapular integument for a maximum of 35 to 40 weeks. The earliest lung neoplasms were seen in mice that died after 23 weeks of treatment and affected 11 of 19 with NMBCU and 14 of 19 with NTCU treatment. Tumor growth pattern was nodular or the neoplastic tissue was frequently disseminated throughout the parenchyma, starting from multicentric peribronchiolar foci. The most common tumor types were squamous cell carcinomas and adenosquamous carcinomas, followed by adenocarcinomas with or without secretory cells, and a single ciliated-cell tumor. Histochemical and immunohistochemical studies were carried out on paraffin-embedded lungs using the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase complex procedure and antisera against keratin, Clara cell antigen, surfactant apoprotein, neuron-specific enolase, bombesin, and chromogranin A. In several mice from both groups, hyperplasias and tumors were composed of cells expressing Clara cell antigen. No tumor cells were found expressing alveolar type II or neuroendocrine cell markers. It appeared that bronchiolar cells, in particular Clara cells, had migrated from terminal bronchioles or invaded bronchiolar walls to extend into the alveolar parenchyma. Squamous cell metaplasia with keratin expression was seen within airways or associated with glandular tumors, especially at the periphery. A unique cell type, with large eosinophilic globules and associated eosinophilic crystals, was seen lining airways or forming hyperplastic and neoplastic lesions. N-nitroso-methyl-bis-chloroethylurea- and NTCU-induced mouse bronchiolar cell alterations could be an interesting new model to study mechanisms of bronchiolar cell differentiation and tumor formation. 
Posterior spinal fusion in Sotos' syndrome. Sotos' syndrome (synonym: cerebral gigantism) is the association of mental retardation, macrocephaly and prenatal onset of accelerated growth. The rapid skeletal growth may account for a 4% incidence of scoliosis. General anaesthesia using halothane or enflurane in nitrous oxide and oxygen, with opioid supplementation and labetalol to induce moderate hypotension, appeared to be a satisfactory technique for corrective spinal surgery. The potential problems are discussed, with mental retardation and sometimes aggressive behaviour contraindicating a "wake-up" test. Extradural somatosensory evoked potential monitoring is a satisfactory alternative. Hook failures seem more likely than in patients undergoing surgery for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. 
Liver damage in long-term anticonvulsant therapy: a serological and histological study. The prevalence of liver damage in patients receiving long-term anticonvulsant therapy was determined, using a new marker of liver disease, the serum F protein concentration. Abnormal serum F protein concentrations were detected in 50 per cent of 34 patients receiving anticonvulsant therapy. A retrospective analysis of post-mortem liver samples showed common histological abnormalities in three out of seven patients who had died whilst receiving anticonvulsant therapy. These changes were not seen in control patients. We suggest that chronic anticonvulsant therapy may cause significant hepatocellular damage. 
Factors relevant to preventing embolic stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation. Whether or not to treat patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation with anticoagulants to prevent embolic stroke is a dilemma for physicians. If randomized trials, currently underway, demonstrate a beneficial effect, the dilemma will not be solved because not all of the relevant factors can be addressed by trials. We used current knowledge about non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation and a method of obtaining patient-derived weights for avoiding stroke from eight medically trained subjects, to determine the overall benefit of anticoagulants and to see what factors were relevant and what effect each might have in deciding whether to use anticoagulant therapy. Using standard assumptions, anticoagulants gave an expected benefit for all subjects. The expected benefit (expressed in terms of lives per 1000 saved due to anticoagulants) varied between 5.4 and 46.7. This benefit remained for all subjects when we did a sensitivity analysis for different rates of stroke prevented by anticoagulants and different rates of intracranial hemorrhage caused by anticoagulants. When we used different baseline rates of stroke and different impacts of major hemorrhagic complications the benefit disappeared for 3 and 4 subjects respectively. We found the factors that were most crucial to the decision will not be included in randomized trials; the weight that an individual would place on avoiding embolic stroke vs the risk of intracranial bleeding from anticoagulant therapy; and the rate of embolic stroke that could be expected for the subject at risk. Factors which will be measured in randomized trials, will change results less substantially: the increased risk of major hemorrhages; the proportion of strokes that could be prevented by treatment; the increase in risk of intracranial hemorrhage. This method of analysis suggests that for most patients anticoagulants are beneficial and that the most important factor in determining this result is the value that subjects put on different outcomes. 
Clinical significance of the expression of epidermal growth factor and its receptor in esophageal cancer. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) level in 56 esophageal cancer tissues was measured by 125I-EGF binding assay to elucidate its role in tumor progression. The survival rate of patients with high EGFR level (more than 50 fmol/mg protein) was significantly lower than that of patients with low EGFR level (less than 50 fmol/mg protein, P less than 0.01), although a correlation between EGFR level and the pathologic findings was not observed. The expression of EGF was examined immunohistochemically using anti-EGF monoclonal antibody in 100 esophageal cancer tissues; EGF-positive tumor cells were detected in 92.0%. The immunoreactivity of EGF was classified arbitrarily into four grades according to the number of stained tumor cells. The expression of EGF significantly correlated with the differentiation of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (P less than 0.01, by chi-square test). The survival rate of patients with high EGF immunoreactivity (Grade 2 or 3) was much lower than in those with lower grade (0 or 1) tumors, (P less than 0.01). Patients with both high EGFR level and EGF immunoreactivity had a much worse prognosis than if both were low. Furthermore, the mitotic index was higher in groups with both high EGFR and EGF than if both were low (16.39 +/- 5.35 versus 6.90 +/- 3.31). These results suggest that EGF and EGFR in the autocrine system may play an important role in tumor progression in esophageal cancer and their expression could be of prognostic significance. 
Review of state-of-the-art beta-blocker therapy. Beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs have been used in the treatment of hypertension for more than 2 decades. During this time they have reached the position of first-line therapy for hypertension and are recommended as such by the Joint National Committee (U.S.A.) in 1988 and by the World Health Organization/International Society of Hypertension in 1983 and 1989. This is because of the favorable relationship between the antihypertensive efficacy of these drugs and the rate and severity of their adverse effects. Of particular interest is the possibility that beta blockers may protect against coronary artery disease (CAD). With regard to secondary prevention against CAD, statistically highly significant and clinically relevant reductions of mortality and the risk of reinfarction have been shown in prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. A primary preventive effect against CAD, on the other hand, has only been shown in open trials without placebo control. However, in spite of the lack of clear proof, this effect still appears to be a logical possibility. Some new findings with beta blockers appear to be of particular interest: beta blockade may reduce myocardial necrosis in patients with marked elevations of plasma catecholamines due to traumatic head injury; a similar protective effect in other situations of severe stress, e.g., acute myocardial infarction, would be of great clinical value. Experimental studies also suggest that beta blockers may have antiatherosclerotic effect in animals fed an atherogenic diet and subjected to stress. Again, clinical confirmation of such results would be of great significance. 
Helicobacter pylori gastritis mimicking gastric carcinoma at CT evaluation. The abdominal computed tomographic (CT) scans from 61 patients with biopsy-proved Helicobacter (formerly Campylobacter) pylori gastritis were retrospectively reviewed. The CT scans were interpreted on the basis of the original report of the findings at CT examination and without knowledge of the results of biopsy. Of 19 patients (31%) with gastric abnormalities at CT, 14 (74%) had inflammatory changes initially reported as suspicious for gastric malignancy; malignancy was entertained as the primary diagnosis in four of those patients. In five of the 19 abnormal cases (26%), the diagnosis with CT was gastritis. The two major patterns of severe H pylori infection identified were (a) circumferential antral wall thickening and (b) thickening of the posterior gastric wall along the greater curvature, with or without evidence of ulceration. Thickening averaged 1.5-2.0 cm in cases suspicious for malignancy. The majority of abnormalities involved the gastric antrum (68%). No cases demonstrated significant adenopathy, obliteration of fat planes, or invasion of adjacent organs. 
Chronic reactive airway disease following acute chlorine gas exposure in an asymptomatic atopic patient. While chlorine gas inhalation has previously been reported to cause temporary mucous membrane irritation, acute pneumonitis, pulmonary edema, and transient bronchospasm, there is controversy about the existence of long-term pulmonary sequelae. We report the case of a 25-year-old man in whom chronic, recurrent asthma developed after exposure to a chlorine gas leak in an enclosed space. His course since the exposure has been notable for frequent exacerbations necessitating chronic corticosteroid therapy and multiple hospitalizations. To our knowledge, the persistence of symptoms years after the exposure is unique in the literature. 
Evidence for altered Na+/H+ antiport activity in cultured skeletal muscle cells and vascular smooth muscle cells from the spontaneously hypertensive rat. 1. Intracellular pH and Na+/H+ antiport activity were determined by a fluorimetric method in cultured skeletal muscle cells (myoblasts) and aortic vascular smooth muscle cells from spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. 2. The intracellular pH was significantly more alkaline at three different extracellular pH values in both myoblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells from the spontaneously hypertensive rats than in those from the normotensive control rats. 3. A kinetic analysis of the Na+/H+ antiport activity in these cells showed that the raised activity in the spontaneously hypertensive rats was due to an increased maximal transport capacity in vascular smooth muscle cells and to an increase in the affinity of the antiport for internal H+ in the myoblasts. 4. When the extracellular pH was reduced in the skeletal muscle cells of both types of rat, the intracellular pH fell. However, in vascular smooth muscle cells, a reduction in the extracellular pH was not associated with a fall in the intracellular pH. This resistance of the intracellular pH to changes in the extracellular pH differentiates vascular smooth muscle cells from other cells that have been studied in this way. 
Relationship between proteolytic enzymes and atherosclerosis in aortic aneurysms. Aortic elastase and aortic collagenase were assayed in 38 patients who underwent an operation for thoracic or infrarenal aneurysm or infrarenal aortic occlusive disease and in 15 control patients (heart or kidney donors). Elastase was elevated in normal aortas of the infrarenal region (1.10 milliunits per gram, p less than 0.05), and in atherosclerotic descendens aneurysms (1.24 milliunits per gram, p less than 0.05), compared with the ascending aorta, when normal; aneurysmatic specimens revealed similar low elastolytic activities (0.10 milliunits per gram). The highest elastase content was found in infrarenal aneurysms (4.65 milliunits per gram). Collagenase assays yielded no significant differences, although higher activities were extracted from aortas of the infrarenal region. Coexistent atherosclerosis and wall destruction were evaluated by macroscopic and histologic investigation. All infrarenal specimens demonstrated severe atherosclerotic wall degeneration with depletion of elastic fibers. As the atherosclerotic specimens did not differ from normal aortas by protease assay, the higher elastase of infrarenal samples compared with the thoracic aorta suggests a more rapid fiber metabolism in the infrarenal region. The significantly elevated elastolytic activity of infrarenal aneurysms points to the decisive role of elastase in infrarenal aneurysm formation. 
Pregnancy complicated by antiphospholipid antibodies. The manifestations of antiphospholipid antibodies in pregnancy are multiple and include maternal arterial and venous thrombosis, spontaneous abortion, intrauterine fetal death, intrauterine growth retardation, and preeclampsia. Maternal complications may also arise in the puerperium with the development of an autoimmune pleuropulmonary postpartum syndrome. Currently, there is confusion in the literature regarding appropriate treatment of patients known to possess these antibodies. We have reported the case of a patient at 29 weeks' gestation who had elevated blood pressure, proteinuria, and early intrauterine growth retardation. Studies were positive for the presence of both lupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin antibodies. After delivery, chest pain and a pleural effusion developed as further manifestations of the patient's autoimmune disease. 
The mast cell in health and disease. The presence of mast cells, often in an activated state or increased numbers, has been noted in various cutaneous disorders. Recent studies suggest that mast cells are of primary importance in these conditions and their presence does not merely represent a secondary event. This review focuses on atopic dermatitis, contact hypersensitivity reactions, bullous pemphigoid, fibrosing conditions, neurofibromatosis, wound healing, polycythemia vera, and psoriasis, in which there is significant evidence to indicate a pathophysiologic role for mast cells. 
Herniated cervical disk presenting as ischemic chest pain. Myocardial ischemia must be the first concern of every emergency physician in evaluating chest pain in the adult patient. Any suspicion of myocardial ischemia must be promptly evaluated and admitted. The American College of Emergency Physicians has recently published a standards document on the care of chest pain in the adult patient. The emergency physician must be familiar with this document. Once myocardial ischemia and other life-threatening causes are ruled out, one can consider that cervical disk disease may be the cause of chest pain. The authors present two cases of patients who presented to the Emergency Department with signs and symptoms consistent with cardiac ischemia. Both patients were found to have herniated cervical disks. Subsequent surgical repair completely relieved their symptoms. Evaluation of the literature reveals that this entity was well described from 1950 to the 1960s. Most recent discussions do not mention disk herniation as even an infrequent cause of chest pain. If there is no life-threatening disease present, one should consider cervical disk disease. 
Differential effect of compression-ischaemia block on warm sensation and heat-induced pain. The effect of compression-ischaemia nerve block on psychophysical thresholds for warm sensation and heat-induced pain was studied on 19 normal human volunteers. Although those two sensory submodalities should be predicted to block simultaneously, based on the fact that both are served by unmyelinated primary afferents, it was actually found that warm sensation was much more vulnerable to compression-ischaemia than heat-induced pain. This is interpreted as resulting from different summation requirements for each of the two sensory modalities; sensation of warmth depends on spatial summation to a larger extent than heat-induced pain. Such differential vulnerability is in line with recent clinical studies reporting deterioration of warm sensation associated with preservation of heat pain in peripheral nerve disorders caused by diabetes, ageing and other neuropathic processes. 
The potential use of a dopamine neuron antibody and a striatal-derived neurotrophic factor as diagnostic markers in Parkinson's disease. The cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) contains an antibody that immunocytochemically reacts with dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). This antibody was found in 78% of the CSF samples taken from patients with clinical PD. In contrast, only 3% of the CSF samples taken from control patients or patients with neurologic symptoms other than PD possessed this antibody. The production of this antibody might contribute to disease progression but does not appear to be the etiologic factor responsible for PD. In other experiments, concentrates of the CSF of patients with PD enhanced growth of mesencephalic cultures relative to control CSF. Both the antibody and the growth-promoting activity found in CSF are associated with degeneration of the SN and might therefore be useful as potential diagnostic markers for PD. 
Diaphragmatic performance during recovery from acute ventilatory failure in Guillain-Barre syndrome and myasthenia gravis. Diaphragmatic muscle performance during acute ventilatory failure due to Guillain-Barre syndrome and myasthenia gravis was assessed to evaluate (1) diaphragmatic function during weaning from ventilatory support and (2) diaphragmatic tension-time integral (TTdi) during ventilatory failure. We used a multilumen nasogastric tube and a pneumotachograph to measure transdiaphragmatic pressure per breath (Pdi), maximum transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdimax), tidal volume (VT), and inspiratory time fraction during 74 spontaneous breathing trials in nine patients. Diaphragmatic performance was poor in all patients. The Pdi, Pdimax, and VT improved significantly, but values for Pdi and Pdimax remained low even after weaning. Improvement in Pdimax was the best predictor of recovery (r = 0.48; p less than 0.001). Maximal inspiratory force correlated with Pdimax (r = 0.48; p less than 0.005), but FVC did not. The TTdi rarely exceeded the expected fatigue threshold of 0.15 in spite of the patient's inability to sustain ventilation. Although our patients demonstrated diaphragmatic weakness, TTdi did not demonstrate diaphragmatic fatigue. 
Inhibitor of interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta-induced T-cell activation in serum of patients with active Crohn's disease. Interleukin-1 is a family of polypeptides with a wide spectrum of immunoinflammatory activities pertinent to Crohn's disease, including T-cell activation. Using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, only sera from two of 19 patients (11%) with active Crohn's disease contained interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta activity. Using the thymocyte proliferation assay, sera from the same patients contained significantly increased inhibitory activity against interleukin-1 alpha (P = 0.025) and interleukin-1 beta-induced cell activation (P = 0.00005) as compared with controls. Changes in both interleukin-1 alpha (P = 0.020) and interleukin-1 beta (P = 0.012) inhibitor concentrations correlated significantly with changes in clinical disease activity. None of the patient sera contained IgG or IgM autoantibodies to IL-1 alpha, nor did they exert significant inhibitory activity against interleukin 1 beta in the fibroblast prostaglandin E2-induction assay. Taken together, these data provide evidence for the presence of one or several regulators of interleukin-1-induced T-cell activation in sera from patients with active Crohn's disease. 
Osteomyelitis. The Ilizarov perspective. It is evident that Professor Ilizarov has devised some remarkable strategies for dealing with chronic osteomyelitis. In summary, his methods include: Extensive debridement and intercalary bone transport. Oblique osteotomy through multiloculated cavitary osteomyelitis in intact bone. Elimination of large cavities by gradual displacement of one cortical wall. The role that these techniques will play in the future of osteomyelitis surgery remains to be determined by careful clinical and experimental research. 
Surgical management of retinal detachment associated with the acute retinal necrosis syndrome. We operated on nine eyes in eight patients with retinal detachment associated with acute retinal necrosis (ARN) syndrome. The patients were treated with scleral buckling, vitreoretinal surgery, or a combination of these treatments. Vitrectomised eyes underwent combinations of lensectomy, membrane dissection, scleral buckling, air-fluid exchange, endolaser photocoagulation, cryotherapy, and retinal tamponade with C3F8 gas or SF6 gas. Macular attachment was achieved in eight (89%) eyes. Vision improved in seven (78%) eyes, of which five (56%) achieved 20/200 or better vision. Three eyes that had received laser treatment posterior to areas of retinitis suffered retinal detachment despite this prophylactic treatment. Poor visual outcome resulted from viral infection of the optic nerve or macular involvement, macular hole formation, macular pucker, or hypotony. 
Comparison of different doses of epinephrine on myocardial perfusion and resuscitation success during cardiopulmonary resuscitation in a pig model. Published results of dose-response effects of adrenergic drugs (epinephrine [E]) vary so much between studies because of differences in animal models and duration of ischemia before drug administration. In this investigation the effects of different doses of E on coronary perfusion pressure (CPP), left ventricular myocardial blood flow (MBF) and resuscitation success were compared during closed-chest cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) after a 4-minute period of ventricular fibrillation in 28 pigs. MBF was measured during normal sinus rhythm using tracer microspheres. After 4 minutes of ventricular fibrillation CPR was performed with the use of a pneumatic piston compressor. After 4 minutes of mechanical measures only, the animals were randomly allocated into four groups of seven, receiving 0.015, 0.030, 0.045, and 0.090 mg/kg E intravenously respectively. MBF measurements were started 45 seconds after E administration; hemodynamic measurements after 90 seconds. Four minutes after the first administration, the same E dose was given before defibrillation. The CPP of animals given 0.015, 0.030, 0.045 and 0.090 mg/kg E were as follows: 16.3 +/- 6.1, 25.6 +/- 5.8, 33.2 +/- 8.4 and 30.4 +/- 6.3 mm Hg. The left ventricular MBF values were: 14 +/- 9, 27 +/- 11, 43 +/- 6, 46 +/- 10 mL/min/100 g. The differences between the groups receiving 0.015 and 0.045 mg/kg and between the groups receiving 0.015 mg/kg and 0.090 mg/kg were statistically significant (P less than .05). Resuscitation success was 14.3%, 42.9%, 100% and 86.7% respectively. A significant difference in resuscitation success was found only between 0.015 mg/kg and 0.045 mg/kg E. 
Blade atrial septostomy: experience with the first 50 procedures. We have performed 50 blade and balloon atrial septostomies in 46 patients with diagnoses of transposition of the great arteries--32 patients; mitral atresia or stenosis--10 patients; total anomalous pulmonary venous drainage--2 patients; tricuspid atresia--1 patient; and pulmonary valve atresia with hypoplastic right ventricle--1 patient. The patients' age ranged from 1 day to 72 months (median = 8 months) and weights ranged from 2.7 to 14.5 kg. In patients with transposition the systemic saturation increased from an average of 62% to 74.6% (p less than 0.001) and the inter-atrial mean pressure gradient was reduced from 7.74 +/- 5.3 to 1.4 +/- 2.04 mm Hg. Patients with mitral atresia had no significant increase in systemic arterial saturation but a significant decrease in the mean inter-atrial gradient from 19.6 +/- 12.4 to 3.8 +/- 5.3 mm Hg. In three patients the blade septostomy was unsuccessful for technical reasons and the condition of the patient. Complications included one death due to atrial laceration, blood loss requiring transfusion in 5 patients, transient CVA in one patient, and failure of the blade to close in one patient. We have found the palliative use of the blade catheter in conjunction with balloon atrial septostomy to be an effective and safe procedure. 
Peripheral (extraosseous) calcifying odontogenic cyst. A review of forty-five cases. The peripheral calcifying odontogenic cyst (PCOC) is a rare lesion. The number of well-documented cases reported in the English-language literature until now is 38. The purpose of the present study is twofold: (1) to report seven new cases of PCOC and (2) to review and analyze the clinical and histomorphologic features of the previously reported cases of PCOC together with those of the present study. Most of the lesions were located in the maxillary and mandibular gingiva or alveolar mucosa anterior to the region of the first molar. Histologically, 66% of the lesions were of the cystic variant and 34% of the solid (neoplastic) variant. The terminology of the lesion and its histogenesis are discussed. 
Blood pressure and high blood pressure. Aspects of risk. This report deals with three aspects of risk related to blood pressure and high blood pressure. The first aspect of risk concerns distributions of systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) in the adult population and their relation to long-term risk of morbidity and mortality. By middle age, only a minority (about 20%) of Americans have optimal SBP and DBP levels, less than 120 mm Hg and less than 80 mm Hg, respectively. For the majority with higher levels, risks of major clinical events, including death from cardiovascular diseases and from all causes, are markedly increased. The relations of SBP and DBP with risk are strong, continuous, and graded. Risk is sizable not only for persons with high blood pressure by usual clinical criteria (SBP greater than or equal to 140 mm Hg or DBP greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg), but also for those with "high-normal" blood pressure (e.g., SBP 130-139 mm Hg or DBP 80-89 mm Hg). Thus, the blood pressure problem is a population-wide one and requires for its control a combined population-wide and high-risk strategy. A major component of this strategy must be nutritional-hygienic measures for the primary prevention of the rise in blood pressure during adulthood and of high blood pressure (i.e., primary prevention not only of the complications of high blood pressure but also of high blood pressure itself) through improved lifestyles having the potential to shift downward the blood pressure distribution of the whole population. The second aspect of risk concerns the known risk factors (i.e., aspects of modern lifestyle) leading to the mass occurrence of blood pressure rise during adulthood and of high blood pressure. These risk factors are high salt intake, high dietary sodium/potassium ratio, calorie imbalance and resultant obesity, and high alcohol intake. The extensive data base establishing the role of these common traits in the etiology of the blood pressure/high blood pressure problem is the scientific foundation for efforts to achieve the primary prevention of high blood pressure. The third aspect of risk relates to the combined impact of other risk factors along with blood pressure-high blood pressure in markedly increasing the probabilities of morbidity and mortality (e.g., "rich" diet, diet-dependent serum cholesterol and uric acid, smoking, diabetes, and target-organ damage). Prevention and control of lifestyle-related traits are essential components of the strategy for dealing with the blood pressure-high blood pressure problem. 
A model of prostatic carcinoma tumor kinetics based on prostate specific antigen levels after radiation therapy. Serial prostatic specific antigen values (PSA) were determined on 42 patients receiving definitive radiation therapy for localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate. The PSA declined exponentially in 25 patients. None of these patients experienced metastases. The PSA initially declined then increased exponentially in 17 patients. The rate of decline was similar to the rate of rise in all 17 patients. Five of these patients had distant metastases (P less than 0.02) within 2 years of treatment. The PSA values after radiation therapy were employed to formulate a model of tumor kinetics. This model predicts the mean duration of G0. This parameter is correlated with the development of distant metastases within 2 years of treatment. For those patients at low risk for relapse, the mean G0 is calculated to be 22.5, and 13.6 weeks for those who have relapsed or are at high risk for relapse. 
Hepatitis B virus infection in patients with idiopathic liver disease. We studied 67 HBsAg-negative Israeli patients (36 negative for all HBV serological markers as group 1 and 31 positive for antibodies to HBs and HBc as group 2) with chronic liver disease and cirrhosis of unknown origin using a rapid, sensitive and specific assay for the detection of low levels of hepatitis B virus in serum. This technique uses a high-affinity monoclonal antibody to HBs against an a domain epitope of HBsAg to capture the virion, followed by hepatitis B virus DNA amplification with the polymerase chain reaction. In addition, 55 subjects without liver disease served as controls: Group 3 (n = 32) was negative for all hepatitis B virus markers; group 4 (n = 23) was positive for antibodies to HBs and HBc. We found 11 individuals in group 1 (31%) and 10 in group 2 (29%) harboring low levels of hepatitis B virus DNA in serum. In contrast, no one in group 3 or group 4 was positive by this technique (p less than 0.0001). Using polymerase chain reaction primers spanning other regions of the hepatitis B virus genome and a method of restriction-fragment analysis of polymerase chain reaction-amplified sequences, we detected significant DNA sequence heterogeneity, suggesting infection with distinct hepatitis B virus strains. DNA extracted from paraffin-embedded liver biopsy specimens of 42 patients from groups 1 and 2 was shown to contain hepatitis B virus DNA by polymerase chain reaction in 11 of 12 patients with circulating virion DNA. More important, 18 additional patients whose sera were negative by HBs-antibody capture/polymerase chain reaction amplification had hepatitis B virus DNA sequences in their livers. 
Discrepancy of cervical cytology and colposcopic biopsy: is cervical conization necessary? The purpose of this study was to determine whether diagnostic cervical conization is necessary in the patient with a discrepancy between the Papanicolaou smear and the colposcopically directed biopsy(s). Patients eligible for the study had at least a two-degree discrepancy, eg, CIN III cytology and CIN I or less on colposcopic biopsies, or CIN II cytology with biopsies showing no dysplasia. Of the 786 records reviewed, 87 (11.1%) had such a discrepancy. Twelve of 87 patients (13.8%) were pregnant and ten of 87 (11.5%) failed to return after their initial colposcopic evaluation, leaving 65 patients in the study group. Of these, 20 of 65 (30.8%) were treated medically, nine (13.8%) had cryotherapy, and 36 (55.4%) underwent diagnostic cervical conization. Of patients undergoing cervical conization, three had microinvasive carcinoma of the cervix. Following medical therapy, only two of 20 patients (10%) had negative cytology, two (10%) had CIN I, five (25%) received additional therapy, and 11 (55%) were lost to follow-up. Seven patients did not return for follow-up Papanicolaou smear after medical treatment, and four did not return after their initial posttreatment Papanicolaou smear revealed persistent dysplasia. Of the nine patients treated with cryotherapy, six (66.7%) had a negative Papanicolaou smear at the time of their initial follow-up. The results of this study emphasize the importance of proceeding with diagnostic or therapeutic conization if a two-stage or greater discrepancy exists between the colposcopically directed biopsies and the cervical cytology. The risk of not diagnosing a microinvasive or invasive cervical carcinoma far outweighs the risk of conization. 
Stress hormone and blood glucose response following acute stroke in the elderly. We studied the relation of reactive hyperglycemia, stress hormone response, and outcome in 23 consecutive elderly patients (median age 80 [range 75-92] years) following an acute first stroke. The median delay from the onset of the stroke to the first blood sample (day 0) was 9 (range 4-22) hours. Subsequent blood samples were taken, after fasting, for the determination of blood glucose, cortisol, catecholamine, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, and lactate concentrations on days 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 30, and 90. For all 23 patients, a significant relation was found between the blood glucose concentration and survival (p = 0.03) and the blood glucose concentration decreased with time (p less than 0.001). There was also a significant relation between blood glucose concentration and outcome (p = 0.02). For the 15 patients with complete data, the major determinants of the blood glucose concentration were the cortisol, insulin, and glucagon concentrations (all p less than 0.001), which accounted for 42% of the variance. When all the indexes were analyzed together by logistic regression, only the cortisol concentration was related to outcome (p = 0.02). Hyperglycemia following a stroke probably reflects the intensity of the stress hormone response. We have confirmed that hyperglycemia is a predictor of outcome in persons with stroke. 
Topographic variations in the peripheral course of the greater occipital nerve. Autopsy study with clinical correlations. The description of the peripheral course of the greater occipital nerve (GON) varies in the literature. An autopsy study was done on 20 cases without known headache problems. These findings showed a marked variation in the relation between the GON and nuchal muscles. The trapezius muscle was penetrated by the GON in 45% of cases, the semispinal muscle of the head was penetrated in 90% of cases, and the inferior oblique muscle of head was penetrated in 7.5% of cases. Macroscopic findings of possible compression were made in 11 cases (27.5%), indicating that nerve compression per se may be of minor importance since it seems to exist in the absence of headache. 
Efficacy and safety of a perioperative enoxaparin regimen in total hip replacement under various anesthesias. Four trials in which enoxaparin, a low-molecular-weight heparin, was used in patients having hip surgery are reported. In the first two trials, enoxaparin was given before general anesthesia. The protocol consisted of 40 mg of enoxaparin, 4,000 anti-factor Xa IU, subcutaneously 12 hours before surgery, followed by the same dose 12 hours after surgery and then once daily. In the third trial, this protocol was compared with unfractionated heparin calcium given in a standardized manner and appeared to be significantly superior both in efficacy and tolerance. In the fourth trial, the protocol was adapted for use in spinal subarachnoidal anesthesia; 20 mg of enoxaparin, 2,000 anti-factor Xa IU, was given subcutaneously 1 hour after anesthesia and 40 mg 12 hours later. In all these trials tolerance was good. Excessive bleeding did not occur with the 40 mg once daily regimen. Efficacy was good and compared favorably with other protocols in use. 
Left ventricular filling in the systemic hypertension of obesity. Cardiac structure and systolic as well as diastolic functions were evaluated by 2-dimensional M-mode echocardiography in lean and obese patients who were either hypertensive or normotensive. Diastolic function, as assessed by diminished normalized early peak filling rate and prolonged duration of rapid filling, was decreased in hypertensive patients compared with normotensive patients (p = 0.02). When compared with lean patients with similar blood pressure levels, obese patients exhibited a lower normalized peak filling rate (p = 0.0014) but no difference in duration of rapid filling. A significant correlation was observed between the normalized peak filling rate and either body mass index or left ventricular (LV) mass (r = 0.355 and r = -0.32, respectively; p less than 0.001). Obese patients had greater LV end-diastolic and systolic dimensions (p less than 0.005 and p less than 0.02, respectively), LV wall thickness (p less than 0.05) and LV mass (p less than 0.007) than lean patients. Impairment of LV filling was most pronounced in obese hypertensive patients. It is concluded that the burden on the left ventricle imposed by obesity causes cardiac enlargement and impairment of LV filling regardless of levels of arterial pressure. 
Immunocytochemical analysis of progesterone receptors in breast cancer. Breast cancer specimens from 116 patients were assayed for the presence of progesterone receptor (PR), with the use of a highly specific monoclonal antibody and the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique on cryostat and permanent sections. Results were compared with those obtained by the conventional PR determination by dextran-coated charcoal (DCC) assay; they were in concordance in 90% of cryostat sections and 85% of paraffin-embedded tissue. The sensitivity and specificity of the PR immunocytochemical assay (PR-ICA) were 91% and 89% for frozen sections and 83% and 89% for permanent sections, respectively. The immunostained slides also were evaluated for several semiquantitative features, including staining intensity, heterogeneity of staining, and the proportion of positive tumor cells. A statistically significant correlation was found between the percentage of tumor cells stained with the PR immunocytochemical technique and the PR-cytosol levels (P less than 0.05). These results suggest that the PR-ICA is an effective tool in the evaluation of PR content in breast cancer and can be applied in paraffin as well as frozen sections. This technique provides excellent morphologic detail, as well as tissue localization for PR. It also offers an alternative for assessment of PR when fresh tissue is not available for conventional hormone receptor analysis. The immunocytochemical assay can be performed easily at community hospitals. Because it requires only a small amount of tissue, PR-ICA is an ideal method for analyzing specimens of insufficient size for the DCC assay. This technique also is suited to the evaluation of fine-needle aspiration biopsy specimens. 
Strength and skeletal muscle adaptations in heavy-resistance-trained women after detraining and retraining. Six women who had participated in a previous 20-wk strength training study for the lower limb detrained for 30-32 wk and subsequently retrained for 6 wk. Seven untrained women also participated in the 6-wk "retraining" phase. In addition, four women from each group volunteered to continue training an additional 7 wk. The initial 20-wk training program caused an increase in maximal dynamic strength, hypertrophy of all three major fiber types, and a decrease in the percentage of type IIb fibers. Detraining had relatively little effect on fiber cross-sectional area but resulted in an increased percentage of type IIb fibers with a concomitant decrease in IIa fibers. Maximal dynamic strength decreased but not to pretraining levels. Retraining for 6 wk resulted in significant increases in the cross-sectional areas of both fast fiber types (IIa and IIab + IIb) compared with detraining values and a decrease in the percentage of type IIb fibers. The 7-wk extension accentuated these trends such that cross-sectional areas continued to increase (nonsignificant) and no IIb fibers could be found. Similar results were found for the nonpreviously trained women. These data suggest that rapid muscular adaptations occur as a result of strength training in previously trained as well as non-previously trained women. Some adaptations (fiber area and maximal dynamic strength) may be retained for long periods during detraining and may contribute to a rapid return to "competitive" form. 
The osseointegration technique for the rehabilitation of the exenterated orbit. Osseointegrated implants can be used successfully to support maxillofacial prostheses. Six patients (aged 37 to 80 years; average age, 68 years) underwent orbital exenteration for eyelid neoplasms infiltrating into the orbit. Each patient underwent a two-stage osseointegration procedure in preparation for fitting an orbital prosthesis. In the first stage, three or four bone-anchored fixtures were placed into the bony orbital rim. Skin penetration and abutment placement were performed in the second-stage operation, performed 3 to 6 months later. Successful osseointegration was achieved in 17 (94.4%) of 18 fixtures in five nonirradiated patients. All five patients were successfully fitted with an implant-retained prosthesis. One patient who underwent irradiation lost all four fixtures that had been placed. This patient chose to wear a black patch rather than a conventional prosthesis held in with adhesive. Average follow-up was 16 months for the five patients who were successfully fitted with orbital prostheses (range, 6 to 30 months). 
Adenocarcinoma of the stomach: a plea for early diagnosis. In the United States, early diagnosis and cure of gastric carcinoma remain elusive. Patients with this disease commonly have gastrointestinal symptoms that often go unexplained. Physicians give gastric carcinoma a low priority in their differential diagnosis and are unaware of the risk factors patients may have. Patients may have a normal upper gastrointestinal series, and fiberoptic gastroscopy is delayed. Patients with unexplained indigestion and abdominal pain, coupled with such risk factors for gastric carcinoma as national origin, diet, heredity, and previous subtotal gastrectomy for gastric ulcers, should be given the opportunity of esophagogastroduodenoscopy. 
Diagnostic and therapeutic strategies of white clot syndrome. This study describes our experience with 12 patients with white clot syndrome encountered during a recent 36-month period. The diagnosis was based on the following criteria: (1) development of thrombocytopenia of less than 100,000/mm3 during administration of heparin therapy, (2) normalization of the platelet count after an interruption in heparin therapy, (3) exclusion of other causes of thrombocytopenia, (4) a positive heparin-induced platelet aggregation test, (5) detection of white clots on pathologic examination, and (6) the presence of thrombotic complications. Of 2,500 patients who received heparin therapy, 12 (0.48%) developed white clot syndrome. Various indications, routes of administration, and types of heparin were implicated. The mean platelet nadir was 26,900/mm3, and the mean time to onset of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was 5 days. Thrombotic complications included arterial occlusions of the legs in 11 patients, deep vein thrombosis of the legs in 9 patients (4 had pulmonary embolism), and combined arterial and venous thrombosis in 8 patients. Treatment strategies included discontinuation of heparin in all patients and intravenous infusion of dextran, followed by arterial thrombectomy in four patients, urokinase therapy in two patients for arterial complications, and insertion of Greenfield filters in six patients. All patients were given warfarin. The mortality rate was 25% and the morbidity rate was 50%. An initial platelet count should be obtained on all patients prior to receiving heparin, followed by repeat platelet counts every 2 to 3 days. Once thrombocytopenia or thrombosis is diagnosed, heparin should be discontinued and other methods of therapy considered. 
Antithrombin III supplementation reduces heparin requirement and platelet loss during hemodialysis of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. Previous studies have shown that antithrombin III levels are low in fulminant hepatic failure, and heparin kinetics are abnormal, making control of heparinization difficult during hemodialysis of these patients who are at risk of bleeding. In this study, we have performed a controlled, randomized trial of antithrombin III supplementation on heparin activity, occurrence of bleeding and the platelet count and activation during hemodialysis in 24 patients with fulminant hepatic failure. The treated group of 12 patients was given 3,000 units of antithrombin III before hemodialysis. Antithrombin III supplementation was shown to normalize antithrombin III levels during hemodialysis (prelevels: 0.22 +/- 0.03 U/ml S.E.; at 1 hr 0.99 +/- 0.06 U/ml; p less than 0.001; control prelevels: 0.24 +/- 0.03 U/ml; at 1 hr 0.23 +/- 0.04 U/ml). Total heparin usage was significantly decreased by antithrombin III supplementation (median 5,200 U; range = 2,000 to 13,000) as compared with the control group (median 10,200 U; range = 5,000 to 16,500; p less than 0.005). Blood heparin level (antifactor Xa activity) after the initial bolus was significantly greater in the antithrombin III-supplemented subjects (0.40 +/- 0.07 U/ml compared with 0.22 +/- 0.05 U/ml in the control group; p less than 0.05). The significant reduction in platelet count observed in the control patients (18% +/- 6% at 1 hr; p less than 0.05) did not occur in antithrombin III patients (6% +/- 4% at 1 hr), which was reflected by a lower release of the platelet-specific protein beta-thromboglobulin. Two of 12 patients in both groups showed minor bleeding around vascular access sites during the first hemodialysis. 
Time course of creatine kinase release after termination of sustained ventricular dysrhythmias. Differentiation between primary and secondary (caused by acute myocardial infarction) ventricular fibrillation has important therapeutic and prognostic implications. The diagnosis of myocardial infarction is based on clinical, ECG, and creatine kinase MB isoenzyme (MBCK) activity. Enzymatic criteria might not be able to confirm the diagnosis of myocardial infarction after recent cardioversion. The routine use of electrophysiologic studies involving the induction and termination of ventricular dysrhythmias provides a setting in which enzyme release as a result of cardioversion alone can be examined. Therefore a systematic investigation of the magnitude and time course of creatine kinase (CK) and MBCK release was performed after termination of ventricular dysrhythmias in 57 patients undergoing electrophysiologic studies. Of patients requiring external cardioversion, only 50% had an elevation in CK and MBCK activity. Elevation when present corrected with the number of shocks and cumulative energy delivered. The magnitude of MBCK release exceeded 10% of the total CK activity in 9% of observations. Pace-termination of ventricular tachycardia did not result in enzyme release. Arrhythmia characteristics, coronary artery disease, and left ventricular function did not affect the magnitude of the time course of enzyme release. These data suggest that cardioversion with multiple shocks may result in a component of MBCK release, and thus a false positive diagnosis of primary acute myocardial infarction may be made by relying exclusively on the enzyme release pattern. 
Localized irradiation of testes with carcinoma in situ: effects on Leydig cell function and eradication of malignant germ cells in 20 patients. Twenty men (median age, 31 yr) previously treated for unilateral testicular cancer received localized irradiation in a dose of 20 Gray in 10 fractions for carcinoma in situ of the remaining testis. Follow-up testicular biopsies performed 3 (n = 19) and 24 (n = 14) months after the treatment showed in all cases a Sertoli cell-only pattern. Hormonal evaluation was performed before as well as 3, 12, 24, and 36 months after radiation treatment. Endocrine parameters were followed for a median of 30 months (3-36 months). Baseline serum testosterone values decreased during the follow-up period from 13.3 +/- 6.0 to 10.8 +/- 6.4 nmol/L (mean +/- SD), although the decrease was not statistically significant (P = 0.06). Serum LH values increased during the first 3 months of follow-up from 10.4 +/- 5.4 to 15.6 +/- 7.3 IU/L (P less than 0.0001) and then remained unchanged. Significant decreases in GnRH- and hCG-stimulated testosterone levels also indicated an impairment of Leydig cell function. FSH levels increased (P less than 0.0001) during the first 3 months of follow-up from 21.8 +/- 11.1 to 33.2 +/- 13.2 IU/L. We conclude that localized irradiation of 20 Gray eradicated carcinoma in situ germ cells. Development of a second testicular cancer has until now been prevented. Leydig cell function was partially impaired by the radiation dose given. 
Investigations on etiology of Crohn's disease. Humoral immune response to stress (heat shock) proteins. Many investigators have tried to prove a relationship between Crohn's disease and Mycobacteria. Recent evidence suggests that some autoimmune diseases may be initiated through "molecular mimicry" between mycobacterial stress protein antigens and their human homologs. We investigated whether antibody to stress proteins was more frequent in patients with Crohn's disease than controls. We used ATP binding to separate stress proteins (heat-shock-induced, de novo-synthesized, and constitutively expressed ATP-binding proteins) from crude extracts obtained from Mycobacteria and from an SV40-transformed human epithelial cell line that expresses a heat-shock protein, hsp73, as a complex with SV40 T antigen. We used immunoblots to compare sera from 34 patients with Crohn's disease, 14 with ulcerative colitis, and 14 with duodenal or gastric ulcers (noninflammatory bowel disease control patients). We found no statistically significant pattern or frequency of antibodies against single proteins or a combination of mycobacterial or human stress proteins. These observations do not support the hypothesis that a humoral immune response to stress proteins of Mycobacteria is important in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. 
Hypertrophic spinal pachymeningitis: report of two cases and review of the literature. The cases of two patients with idiopathic pachymeningitis hypertrophica that caused progressive paraparesis are presented. Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging was used to demonstrate this pathological entity in one patient, and myelography was used in the other. Decompressive surgery led to significant neurological improvement. The etiology, diagnosis, and management of this disease is discussed, and the literature is reviewed. To our knowledge, this is the first report to describe the features of this rare pathological entity on magnetic resonance imaging. 
Marijuana as antiemetic medicine: a survey of oncologists' experiences and attitudes. A random-sample, anonymous survey of the members of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) was conducted in spring 1990 measuring the attitudes and experiences of American oncologists concerning the antiemetic use of marijuana in cancer chemotherapy patients. The survey was mailed to about one third (N = 2,430) of all United States-based ASCO members and yielded a response rate of 43% (1,035). More than 44% of the respondents report recommending the (illegal) use of marijuana for the control of emesis to at least one cancer chemotherapy patient. Almost one half (48%) would prescribe marijuana to some of their patients if it were legal. As a group, respondents considered smoked marijuana to be somewhat more effective than the legally available oral synthetic dronabinol ([THC] Marinol; Unimed, Somerville, NJ) and roughly as safe. Of the respondents who expressed an opinion, a majority (54%) thought marijuana should be available by prescription. These results bear on the question of whether marijuana has a "currently accepted medical use," at issue in an ongoing administrative and legal dispute concerning whether marijuana in smoked form should be available by prescription along with synthetic THC in oral form. This survey demonstrates that oncologists' experience with the medical use of marijuana is more extensive, and their opinions of it are more favorable, than the regulatory authorities appear to have believed. 
Validation of a computerized technique for detection of the gas exchange anaerobic threshold in cardiac disease. Respiratory gas exchange data were collected from 77 men greater than 6 months after acute myocardial infarction. Maximal exercise was performed on an ergometer cycle programmed for a ramp protocol of 15 W/min. The gas exchange anaerobic threshold (ATge) was determined by analysis of the carbon dioxide elimination (VCO2) vs oxygen consumption (VO2) curve below a respiratory exchange ratio of 1.00 using a computerized algorithm. This value was estimated at the inflection of VCO2 from a line with a slope of 1 which intersects the VCO2 vs VO2 curve. The relation of the ATge to the lactate acidosis threshold was studied in 29 patients. The reproducibility of the ATge method was studied in 77 patients. Mean (+/- standard deviation) VO2 for the ATge was 905 +/- 220 vs 866 +/- 299 ml/min for the lactate acidosis threshold (r = 0.86, p less than 0.001). Mean VO2 at the ATge for test 1 was 968 +/- 225 vs 952 +/- 217 ml/min for test 2 (r = 0.71, p less than 0.001). Mean peak VO2 was 1,392 +/- 379 vs 912 +/- 202 ml/min at the ATge (r = 0.76, p less than 0.001). Results demonstrate that this ATge method correlates well with the lactate acidosis threshold, is reproducible, and should be useful as an objective measure of submaximal exercise performance. 
Gastrointestinal transit of solid-liquid meal in chronic alcoholics. Gastric emptying, mouth-to-cecum transit, and whole-gut transit of a solid-liquid meal were measured in 46 chronic alcoholics and in 30 control subjects by using scintigraphic techniques, hydrogen breath test, and stool markers. In the alcoholics various parameters such as ethanol consumption, gastrointestinal symptoms, and alcoholic neuropathy were determined and related to gastrointestinal transit times. Although there was no significant overall difference of gastric emptying, abnormally delayed gastric emptying was detected in 23.9% of the alcoholics but no control subject (P less than 0.005). Mouth-to-cecum transit was significantly prolonged in the alcoholics (P less than 0.001) with 14 alcoholics (37.8%) disclosing delayed mouth-to-cecum transit. No significant differences between both groups were detected concerning whole gut transit. In the alcoholics there was a significant correlation of dyspeptic symptoms with delayed gastric emptying (P less than 0.006), and alcoholics with diarrhea had an accelerated mouth-to-cecum transit as compared to those without diarrhea (P less than 0.05). Neither the presence of autonomic or peripheral neuropathy nor the presence of liver cirrhosis or ascites was significantly related to gastrointestinal transit times. However, the daily ethanol ingestion significantly correlated with gastric emptying (P less than 0.005). It is concluded, therefore, that in chronic alcoholics the small intestine and the stomach are most likely to be affected by gastrointestinal transit disorders and that these transit abnormalities are potentially related to toxic damage of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. 
Effect of light chain V region duplication on IgG oligomerization and in vivo efficacy. A human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) antibody oligomer was isolated from a transfected myeloma cell line that produced a monoclonal antibody to group B streptococci. Compared to the IgG1 monomer, the oligomer was significantly more effective at protecting neonatal rats from infection in vivo. The oligomer was also shown to cross the placenta and to be stable in neonatal rats. Immunochemical analysis and complementary DNA sequencing showed that the transfected cell line produced two distinct kappa light chains: a normal light chain (Ln) with a molecular mass of 25 kilodaltons and a 37-kilodalton species (L37), the domain composition of which was variable-variable-constant (V-V-C). Cotransfection of vectors encoding the heavy chain and L37 resulted in production of oligomeric IgG. 
Synchronous primary mucosal melanoma and mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the maxillary antrum. We present a case of contiguous primary malignant melanoma of the nose and maxillary antrum and mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the maxillary antrum. We believe that this association has not been previously recorded; whether this represents divergent differentiation in a single tumour or 'collision' of two separate tumours is uncertain. 
Mediastinal granuloma secondary to histoplasmosis. Mediastinal granuloma is one of the many potential clinical manifestations of infection with Histoplasma capsulatum. Plain radiographs, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging can help identify intrathoracic adenopathy, calcification, and compression or invasion of vital structures. 
Comparative evaluation of carcinoembryonic antigen, secretory component, and mucins in index and metachronous adenomas of the colorectum. Of 124 patients who underwent endoscopic polypectomy, 70 were colonoscopically reevaluated during a mean period of 10 years. On the basis of the clinical outcome, the patients were divided into three groups: group 1, 31 patients who had a colon still with no adenomas or cancer; group 2, 35 patients in whom one or more metachronous adenomatous polyps developed; and group 3, 4 patients in whom a carcinoma of the colon subsequently developed. In addition to the clinical and pathological features, the pattern of the immunohistologic staining for carcinoembryonic antigen and secretory component was studied. Moreover, the mucin histochemical staining intensity of neutral mucins, sulfomucins, and sialomucins was evaluated. The features of the 40 index adenomas obtained from patients in group 1 were compared with the features of the 51 index adenomas from patients in group 2. Furthermore, these characteristics of the index adenomas were compared with those in the 69 metachronous adenomas of the group 2 patients. It was found that male sex (P less than 0.005) and a history of colorectal neoplasia (P less than 0.02) are main factors for the development of new adenomas. The neutral mucins were less abundant in the group 2 index adenomas (r = -0.21; P less than 0.05). The expression of the other evaluated markers was not significantly different between both groups, although the group 2 index adenomas were significantly smaller (r = -0.22; P less than 0.05) and showed a trend toward a more pronounced cytoplasmic expression of carcinoembryonic antigen than the index adenomas from group 1 (22% vs. 12.5%). Moreover, it was found that in comparison with the index adenomas, metachronous adenomas were significantly smaller (r = -0.24; P less than 0.01) and more sessile (r = 0.20; P less than 0.002). Significant negative correlations, i.e., decrease, were also found in the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (surface P less than 0.001; cytoplasmic P less than 0.05) and neutral mucins (P less than 0.005) between the index adenomas and the metachronous adenomas, whereas positive correlations were found for secretory component (P = 0.0001) and sulfomucins (P less than 0.05). These findings suggest that a limited production of neutral mucins in the goblet cells of a small index adenoma from a male patient with a history of colorectal neoplasia is indicative of an increased risk for the development of new colorectal adenomas. Furthermore, the clinical, mucin histochemical, and immunohistochemical findings of the metachronous adenomas show less malignancy-associated features than those of the index adenomas. 
Factors affecting survival of patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a West Virginia community. The hospital records for patients treated for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms in southern West Virginia during a recent five year period were reviewed. The over-all mortality rate was 62 per cent. Patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality rate (97 per cent) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture (25 per cent). Patients at increased risk were more than 80 years of age, presented with syncope, experienced a short duration of symptoms before seeking medical attention, had preoperative systolic blood pressure levels of less than 90 millimeters of mercury and had a preoperative hemoglobin level of less than 8. Other factors associated with death were a delay in beginning surgical treatment, a larger total blood loss and amount of blood transfused. The results of multivariate analysis demonstrated that preoperative blood pressure, preoperative hemoglobin, presence of syncope and the amount of blood loss were, in large part, reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality. The most effective method of preventing fatal outcome is elective resection of the aneurysms before rupture occurs. 
Rectus sheath hematoma in an anticoagulated patient. Rectus sheath hematoma is an unusual though not rare cause of abdominal wall mass. There are multiple causes for RSH, and with a thorough history, usually some precipitating factor can be identified. Ultrasound and CT are useful in making an accurate diagnosis. Treatment is usually conservative unless the hematoma is enlarging or if the diagnosis is uncertain. 
Angiosarcoma at the site of a Dacron vascular prosthesis: a case report and literature review. Four of 32 reported sarcomas related to the aorta have arisen around previously placed aortic vascular prostheses suggesting that the graft may have been an etiologic factor. Our recent experience with such an angiosarcoma arising around a Dacron aortic graft prompted a review of the lesion to identify risk factors, diagnostic approaches, and treatment options. The diagnosis of these sarcomas is seldom made before operation. Animal studies have implicated plastic polymers including Dacron as carcinogenic materials capable of inducing sarcoma in 7% to 50% of exposures. Because of the rarity of these tumors and the thousands of vascular implants used over the past 30 years, it is unlikely that this degree of risk can be extrapolated to humans. However, a tumor should be included in the differential diagnosis of any mass or thromboembolic event associated with a vascular prosthesis. 
Endocrine responses to long-term administration of the antiprogesterone RU486 in patients with pelvic endometriosis. OBJECTIVE: To examine endocrine and clinical responses to long-term administration of RU486 in patients with endometriosis. DESIGN: Prospective open trial. SETTING: Faculty practice of the authors. PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Six normally cycling women with endometriosis were recruited. INTERVENTIONS: Subjects received RU486 100 mg/d for 3 months. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Hormonal changes during RU486 were compared with control data obtained in the preceding cycle during the early follicular phase. Clinical responses were determined by patient assessment and second-look laparoscopy. RESULTS: All women became amenorrheic, and daily urinary levels of ovarian steroid metabolites remained acyclic. Mean luteinizing hormone (LH) (P less than 0.02) and LH pulse amplitude (P less than 0.05) were increased without changes in LH pulse frequency. An antiglucocorticoid effect was demonstrated by an increase in serum cortisol (P less than 0.01) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (P less than 0.05) levels. Treatment resulted in an improvement in pelvic pain in all subjects without significant change in the extent of disease as evaluated by follow-up laparoscopy. CONCLUSIONS: Daily administration of RU486 results in acyclic ovarian function and improvement in the subjective painful symptoms of endometriosis. 
Mitral valve replacement combined with coronary artery operation: determinants of early and late results. Mitral valve replacement combined with coronary artery bypass grafting has been reported as being associated with a higher mortality than either mitral valve replacement or coronary artery bypass grafting alone. Cause of mitral valve disease and severity of mitral regurgitation have been reported as related to mortality. To study the correlation of the cause of mitral valve disease and severity of mitral regurgitation to hospital mortality and long-term survival, we analyzed the results of 135 patients undergoing mitral valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting between June 1974 and August 1989. The hospital mortality was 11.8% (16/135). Fifteen preoperative and operative variables were tested for correlation with hospital or late mortality using univariate tests and multivariate regression. Advanced age (greater than 60 years), New York Heart Association functional class, and wall motion score were independently associated with hospital mortality (p less than 0.05). The cause of mitral valve disease and severity of mitral regurgitation were not related to hospital mortality or long-term survival (p greater than 0.05). The follow-up rate was 96.6% for the hospital survivors (115/119). Mean follow-up was 52.6 +/- 4.1 months. There were 35 late deaths. Survival was 91.9%, 89.9%, 78%, and 49.9% at 1, 2, 5, and 10 postoperative years, respectively. Preoperative New York Heart Association functional class and use of catecholamines during the postoperative intensive care period were independently related to late survival (p less than 0.05). 
Alleviation of cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction by nitroglycerin. Cocaine induces vasoconstriction of epicardial coronary arteries in patients with and without coronary artery disease, and this vasoconstriction is particularly marked in segments narrowed by atherosclerosis. To assess the effect of nitroglycerin on cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction, computer-assisted quantitative analysis was performed on non-diseased and diseased coronary artery segments in 23 patients (18 men, 5 women, aged 43 to 65 years) 1) at baseline, 2) after administration of intranasal saline solution (in 8 patients) or 2 mg/kg of cocaine (in 15 patients), and then 3) after administration of sublingual placebo (in 6 patients) or 0.4 or 0.8 mg of nitroglycerin (in 9 patients) in the 15 patients given cocaine. In response to cocaine administration, coronary artery cross-sectional area decreased 22 +/- 7% (mean +/- SD) in non-diseased segments (p less than 0.05) and 45 +/- 18% in diseased segments (p less than 0.02). The magnitude of vasoconstriction was greater (p = 0.01) in the diseased segments. Sublingual nitroglycerin abolished the vasoconstriction in both non-diseased and diseased segments. Thus, nitroglycerin alleviates cocaine-induced vasoconstriction in patients with coronary artery disease. 
Drug-induced fever due to diltiazem. To our knowledge, drug-induced fever has not been reported with the use of diltiazem hydrochloride, a commonly prescribed calcium channel blocker. We describe a patient in whom this was the primary manifestation of drug hypersensitivity. A 67-year-old man was admitted for management of a diabetic foot ulcer. His hospital course was complicated by a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, for which diltiazem was prescribed. On the seventh day of therapy, he experienced fever, with temperatures as high as 38.8 degrees C. Despite an extensive evaluation, which included a gallium scan, a technetium bone scan, and abdominal ultrasound, a source could not be found. On the 16th day of therapy, however, relative eosinophilia developed, and 2 days later a pruritic maculopapular rash appeared. Diltiazem therapy was discontinued, leading to resolution of fever within 48 hours. Drug-induced fever should be considered in patients who have unexplained high temperatures during diltiazem therapy. 
Functional, biochemical, and histopathologic consequences of high-dose interleukin-2 administration in rats. A variety of side effects have been reported with the use of interleukin-2 alone or in combination with lymphokine-activated killer cells in patients with disseminated neoplasms. The present study was undertaken to determine the effects of high-dose interleukin-2 administration in normal rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with intravenous recombinant interleukin-2 (900,000 IU/kg/day) for 9 consecutive days. Animals were placed in individual metabolic cages, and arterial blood pressure, food intake, body weight, and urine output were monitored. On day 10, animals were killed by exsanguination, various tissues were harvested, and a variety of hematologic and chemical assays were performed. The results were compared with those of placebo-injected normal control and pair-fed groups. The interleukin-2-treated group exhibited anorexia, weight loss, hypotension, anemia, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, eosinophilia, hypercalcemia, azotemia, and a marked urinary concentration defect. Histologic examination of various tissues revealed widespread infiltration with mono-nuclear cells and eosinophils in most organs, especially in the lungs and liver of interleukin-2-treated animals. Other abnormalities included severe panlobular hepatitis, hepatocellular necrosis, and thymic involution. Renal involvement was mild and consisted of focal interstitial infiltration by mononuclear cells. According to these observations, administration of high-dose interleukin-2 in normal rats results in a score of significant functional, biochemical, and histologic abnormalities. 
Risk factors for stroke in middle aged British men. OBJECTIVE--To determine the risk factors for stroke in a cohort representative of middle aged British men. DESIGN--Prospective study of a cohort of men followed up for eight years. SETTING--General practices in 24 towns in England, Wales, and Scotland (the British regional heart study). SUBJECTS--7735 men aged 40-59 at screening, selected at random from one general practice in each town. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Fatal and non-fatal strokes. RESULTS--110 of the men had at least one stroke; there were four times as many non-fatal as fatal strokes. The relative risk of stroke was 12.1 in men who had high blood pressure (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg) and were current smokers compared with normotensive, non-smoking men. Diastolic blood pressure yielded no additional information, and former cigarette smokers had the same risk as men who had never smoked. Heavy alcohol intake was associated with a relative risk of stroke of 3.8 in men without previously diagnosed cardiovascular disease. Men with pre-existing ischaemic heart disease had an increased risk of stroke, but only when left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiography was also present. CONCLUSIONS--Systolic blood pressure, cigarette smoking, and left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiography in men with pre-existing ischaemic heart disease were found to be the major risk factors for stroke in middle aged British men. Heavy alcohol intake seemed to increase the risk of stroke in men without previously diagnosed cardiovascular disease. A large proportion of strokes should be preventable by controlling blood pressure and stopping smoking. 
Scalp tumours mimicking encephaloceles. Two neonates presented with benign scalp tumours that mimicked encephaloceles. In the more recent case ultrasonography confirmed that the tumour was extracranial. 
MRI of the paranasal sinuses: incidental abnormalities and their relationship to symptoms. Magnetic resonance imaging is able to demonstrate a wide range of sinus abnormalities. Incidental findings in patients referred for neuroradiology because of suspected intracranial pathology are surprisingly common and were present in 37.5 per cent of 483 images examined. The maxillary and ethmoid sinuses were most commonly affected with 27 and 26 per cent of images abnormal whereas the frontal and sphenoid sinuses were less commonly affected with 5 per cent of each abnormal. If minor changes were excluded then 17 per cent of patients had either fluid, a polyp or marked mucosal thickening in at least one sinus. Nasal symptoms, other than the presence of a cold, showed no statistically significant relationship to abnormal findings. Many people with inflammatory changes in their sinuses demonstrated on MRI do not have symptoms classically attributed to sinusitis. 
Anti-carcinoembryonic antigen immunoscintigraphy (technetium-99m-monoclonal antibody BW 431/26) and serum CEA levels in patients with suspected primary and recurrent colorectal carcinoma. This study comprises a total of 141 patients with suspected primary and recurrent colorectal carcinomas, in whom immunoscintigraphy with 99mTc-Mab BW 431/26 was performed. Whole-body scans were done 5.5 hr and SPECT imaging of the abdominal region was done at 6 and 24 hr postinjection of 1100 MBq 99mTc-labeled Mab (1 mg). In the course of primary tumor identification (n = 65), sensitivity of anti-CEA immunoscintigraphy was 95%, specificity 91%. In the diagnosis of early recurrences (n = 76), immunoscintigraphy was the method of choice to clarify the problem (sensitivity 94%; specificity 86%). Overall sensitivity of immunoscintigraphy in patients with suspected colorectal carcinomas and early recurrences was 95%, specificity 88%. Human anti-mouse antibodies were found in 29% (80% predominantly anti-isotypic, 20% predominantly anti-idiotypic). In contrast to anti-CEA immunoscintigraphy, the results of serum CEA levels were rather disappointing. Only 18 out of the 43 surgically verified primary colorectal carcinomas and 17 out of 32 patients with recurrences showed elevated serum CEA levels. In our clinical experience with this 99mTc-labeled anti-CEA antibody, immunoscintigraphy can play an important role in the identification of early colorectal recurrences and in postoperative colorectal cancer patients it should be performed in cases with unclear transmission computed tomography. 
The pseudotumor syndrome. Disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation causing intracranial hypertension without ventriculomegaly. We report a series of eight cases that show a close resemblance to, but are not identical with, pseudotumor cerebri (PTC) as normally defined. The majority of these cases are characterized by raised intracranial pressure without ventriculomegaly. They include two cases of cranial venous outflow obstruction in which clinical or radiologic abnormalities precluded the diagnosis of PTC proper (cases 1 and 2); one case of chronic meningitis in which an abnormal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) composition precluded the diagnosis of PTC (case 3); two cases without either papilledema or a measured increase of CSF pressure, which in other respects, particularly in response to treatment, resembled PTC (cases 4 and 5); and three cases of what is thought to represent an infantile form of PTC (cases 6 through 8). The purpose of the analysis of these cases is twofold. First, it is argued that these cases throw light on the mechanism of PTC itself, supporting a concept of a disturbance of CSF circulation in this condition, and that they are themselves illuminated by considerations of typical PTC. Second, the cases are used to frame a proposed classification of the pseudotumor syndrome aimed at broadening the diagnostic criteria applied currently to PTC. It is suggested that the pseudotumor syndrome has a single underlying mechanism (disturbed CSF circulation) and that recognition of this mechanism not only clarifies the pathophysiologic processes of PTC but also has important diagnostic and therapeutic implications. 
Structural heterogeneity of faecal alpha 1 antitrypsin shown by immunoblot analysis in patients with Crohn's disease. Faecal alpha 1 antitrypsin was determined in 34 patients with Crohn's disease and in 19 healthy subjects by immune nephelometry. A structural analysis of faecal alpha 1 antitrypsin was carried out using immunoblot analysis under non-reducing conditions. Native serum alpha 1 antitrypsin migrated with an apparent molecular weight of 45 kDa. Proteolytic alpha 1 antitrypsin fragments (5-42 kDa) were specifically immunostained in 13/19 and 22/34 stool samples from control subjects and from patients with Crohn's disease respectively. There was a weak correlation (r = 0.47; p less than 0.02) between the molecular weight of fragmented alpha 1 antitrypsin and the faecal concentration in both groups, indicating that alpha 1 antitrypsin inhibits its own proteolysis by intestinal proteases in a dose dependent way. The incidence of polymeric forms (greater than 45 kDa) was similar in patients (10/34) and control subjects (5/19). In only one case in each group was the native serum form of alpha 1 antitrypsin found in faeces. We conclude that faecal alpha 1 antitrypsin differs structurally from the native serum form. Immunochemical measurements, therefore, reflect rather than represent faecal concentrations of alpha 1 antitrypsin. The controversial results in published reports may be partly explained by these findings. The molecular heterogeneity of faecal alpha 1 antitrypsin is not specifically associated with Crohn's disease. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease as a cause of chest pain. Patients with recurrent chest pain free of significant coronary artery disease account for 10% to 30% of patients undergoing coronary angiography. Recent studies suggest that gastroesophageal reflux disease may be very common in these patients. The cause of this chest pain seems to be related primarily to an acid-sensitive mucosa regardless of the presence of esophagitis. Unfortunately, a careful history will not distinguish chest pain arising from a cardiac versus an esophageal source. Therefore, all patients must undergo a thorough cardiac evaluation before assuming that acid reflux is the cause of their complaints. Initial gastroenterology evaluation will usually include upper GI endoscopy or barium studies, possibly with acid perfusion (Bernstein) testing, or both. However, the more sensitive and specific test for acid-related disease is prolonged esophageal pH monitoring. This study quantifies the amount of acid reflux but, more importantly, identifies the relationship between chest pain and acid reflux episodes. Patients should be studied in the outpatient setting with emphasis placed on performing activities that replicate their chest pain. Although we presume that acid-induced chest pain responds as well as heartburn to vigorous antireflux regimens, there are few studies to address this issue. Nevertheless, I have had great success in treating these patients with either high-dose H2 blockers or omeprazole therapy. 
DNA ploidy of spindle cell soft-tissue tumors and its relationship to histology and clinical outcome. With the use of fresh cell suspensions, the DNA ploidy of 11 benign and 27 malignant spindle cell soft-tissue lesions was determined by flow cytometry (37 cases) and/or image cytometry (35 cases). Of the 27 malignant lesions, 10 were low- or intermediate-grade sarcomas, and 17 were high-grade sarcomas. In the malignant lesions, the DNA ploidy was correlated with the histologic grade and the clinical outcome. Of the 11 benign lesions, six had a diploid DNA ploidy pattern, and five were nondiploid by either flow cytometry or image cytometry. All benign cases had a favorable outocome regardless of ploidy. Eight of the 10 low- or intermediate-grade malignant lesions were diploid, whereas two were nondiploid. Of the 17 high-grade sarcomas, 15 were nondiploid by either method of measurement and nine by both. Of the 10 diploid malignant tumors, only one had an unfavorable outcome (malignant mesothelioma with biopsy only), whereas of the 17 malignant lesions that were nondiploid, five had no evidence of recurrent disease, three cases recurred, eight patients died of disease, and one patient died of an unrelated cause. We concluded that (1) ploidy does not differentiate benign from malignant spindle cell soft-tissue tumors, (2) the nondiploid DNA pattern is more common in high-grade than in low- or intermediate-grade sarcomas, and (3) there is a statistically significant relationship between nondiploidy and a worse clinical outcome in sarcomas. 
Effects of selected beta-adrenergic blocking agents on sleep stages in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The effects on sleep of six beta-adrenergic blockers (propranolol, dilevalol, pindolol, metoprolol, celiprolol and atenolol) which differ in their pharmacological characteristics were studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Electroencephalographic activity was recorded for 6 hr after p.o. administration of drugs or vehicle, and the stages of wakefulness, rapid eye movements (REM) sleep and non-REM sleep (non-REM) were classified thereafter. In separate experiments antihypertensive activity of each drug was assessed by the tail-cuff technique. The most common effect of the beta-blockers examined was a decrease of the duration of REM. The effect was marked for propranolol (10-100 mg/kg), celiprolol (10-100 mg/kg) and pindolol (1-10 mg/kg), whereas it occurred at low doses, but not at high doses for metoprolol (10 mg/kg) and atenolol (3 and 10 mg/kg). Dilevalol induced a moderate REM decrease at 30 mg/kg only. For the beta-1 antagonists, the dose reducing REM substantially (ED30) was slightly above (1.4- to 3.7-fold) that effective on blood pressure (ED10), whereas the separation was high for pindolol (17.4-fold) and dilevalol (22.4-fold). Conversely, propranolol displayed a weak antihypertensive activity in this model and was more potent on REM than in reducing blood pressure. Propranolol, celiprolol and atenolol also increased duration of wakefulness. Considering the pharmacological characteristics of the beta-blockers examined, it is suggested that selective beta-1 antagonism and interaction with other neurotransmitters, such as serotonin, are relevant to the potential effects of this class of antihypertensive drugs on sleep function. 
Erythropoietic protoporphyria: unusual skin and neurological problems after liver transplantation. The case of a woman with protoporphyria who developed liver failure and underwent liver transplantation is described. During the pretransplant episode of liver failure she developed quadriparesis that rapidly progressed after transplantation to a severe polyneuropathy. Following transplantation she also developed a second-degree burn of the light-exposed abdominal wall. The neuropathy resembled that observed in other forms of porphyria, and it is proposed that the extreme disturbance of protoporphyrin levels associated with protoporphyrin-induced liver failure caused this neuropathy. Such a neuropathy has not previously been described in protoporphyria. Erythrocyte protoporphyrin levels remain high and fecal levels normal, although results of liver tests are normal. She remains photosensitive, which emphasizes that although liver transplantation may be lifesaving in this disorder, it is not curative, and care must be taken to prevent photosensitive damage to skin and light-exposed internal organs. 
Analysis of the hemodynamic and ventilatory effects of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy uses carbon dioxide, a highly diffusable gas, for insufflation. With extended periods of insufflation, patient arterial carbon dioxide levels may be adversely altered. Patients were selected for laparoscopic cholecystectomy using the same criteria as for open cholecystectomy. Twenty patients (group 1) had normal preoperative cardiopulmonary status (American Society of Anesthesiologists class I), while 10 patients (group 2) had previously diagnosed cardiac or pulmonary disease (class II or III). Demographic, hemodynamic, arterial blood gas, and ventilatory data were collected before peritoneal insufflation and at intervals during surgery. Patients with preoperative cardiopulmonary disease demonstrated significant increases in arterial carbon dioxide levels and decreases in pH during carbon dioxide insufflation compared with patients without underlying disease. Results of concurrent noninvasive methods of assessing changes in partial arterial pressures of carbon dioxide (end-tidal carbon dioxide measured with mass spectrographic techniques) may be misleading and misinterpreted because changes in partial arterial pressures of carbon dioxide are typically much smaller than changes in arterial blood levels and, unlike arterial gas measurements, do not indicate the true level of arterial hypercarbia. During laparoscopic cholecystectomy, patients with chronic cardiopulmonary disease may require careful intraoperative arterial blood gas monitoring of absorbed carbon dioxide. 
Chromosome anomalies in human oocytes in vitro. OBJECTIVE: To determine possible effects on chromosomal status of human oocytes in vitro. DESIGN: A prospective cytogenetic study of human oocytes fixed at 4, 20 (noninseminated oocytes), or approximately 52 hours after pick-up (inseminated-unfertilized oocytes). SETTING: Primary treatment of infertility in an institutional practice. PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-eight consecutive in vitro fertilization (IVF) patients (262 inseminated-unfertilized oocytes) and 47 IVF patients with greater than 8 oocytes retrieved (95 noninseminated oocytes). INTERVENTIONS: Ultrasound-guided transvaginal follicular aspiration. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Planned before data collection began. RESULTS: The incidence of chromosome anomalies did not differ between groups. However, a negative correlation between oocytes apparently without chromosomes and oocytes with fragmented chromosomes was found. CONCLUSIONS: Incubation of oocyte in vitro does not affect the chromosome complement. The mechanisms leading to oocytes apparently without chromosomes and with fragmented chromosomes are self-excluding. 
Hemorrhagic venous infarction after excision of an arteriovenous malformation: case report. A case of arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in which postoperative hemorrhagic infarction developed, probably because of occlusion of the former draining veins, is reported. The hemorrhage developed in the temporal lobe 3 days after the initial operation and was located in the immediate vicinity of the site of the AVM. The following findings suggest that the postsurgical hemorrhage probably resulted from a venous thrombosis: 1) no evidence of residual AVM; 2) delayed onset of the hemorrhage, inconsistent with the time course of a hemorrhage developing according to the breakthrough theory or with insufficient hemostasis with a high-pressure afterload; 3) good correlation between the location of the hemorrhage and the occlusion of the draining veins; and 4) multifocal hemorrhage affecting both the gray matter and the subcortical white matter. Postoperative hemorrhagic infarction caused by thrombosis in the draining veins is rare, but it should be considered as a distinct postoperative complication after removal of an AVM. 
The role of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in the maintenance of hypercalcemia in a patient with an ovarian carcinoma producing parathyroid hormone-related protein. The syndrome of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM) is thought to be mainly a result of the production of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHRP) by malignant tumors. Serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-DHD) concentrations are generally low in such patients, which contrasts with the findings in animal studies. A patient is reported with HHM from a clear cell ovarian carcinoma and elevated serum immunoreactive PTHRP (about five times the upper limit of normal) in whom serum 1,25-DHD concentrations were abnormally high (200 pmol/l) and associated with increased intestinal calcium absorption. Treatment with two different nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (pamidronate and [3-dimethyl-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene]-1,1-bisphosphonate) did not normalize serum and urinary calcium despite effective inhibition of bone resorption. These observations suggested an additional intestinal contribution to the maintenance of hypercalcemia. Tumor removal was followed by decreases in serum immunoreactive PTHRP and 1,25-DHD concentrations to their respective normal ranges and normocalcemia. Separating HHM into Types I and II, according to the prevailing serum 1,25-DHD concentrations, can provide a basis for a better understanding of the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia, and it also may have practical use in the successful management of these patients. 
Fatal acetaminophen poisoning with evidence of subendocardial necrosis of the heart. The authors describe a case of fatal acetaminophen overdose which occurred in a 16-year-old female. Her serum acetaminophen concentration 11.5 h postingestion was 154 mg/L. Antidotal therapy was unsuccessful, and after 9 days she died. Autopsy findings included centrilobular zonal liver necrosis, acute proximal renal tubular necrosis, and diffuse alveolar pulmonary damage. Her heart was transplanted into a young woman with congenital heart disease. The recipient expired 14 days after the transplant as a result of sepsis complicating bowel ischemia. The transplanted heart showed extensive subendocardial myocyte necrosis related to acetaminophen toxicity and not rejection. 
Relative incidence of intracranial mass lesions and severe torso injury after accidental injury: implications for triage and management. In a previous study of head injury patients we found that old age, low Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score, pupillary inequality, and falls were significant predictors of intracranial mass lesions (IMLs). Injury to motor vehicle occupants was less likely to result in IML. The present study defines predictors of severe torso injury (STI) in 646 patients admitted to a trauma unit and compares these with predictors of IML obtained in the previous study. Tachycardia and low blood pressure were associated with an increased incidence of STI (p = 0.003, p = 0.0000). The incidence of STI in falls differed from that of IML (13.2% vs. 47.7%, p less than 0.001). There was a greater incidence of STI than IML in MVAs (33.6% vs. 14.8%, p less than 0.001). Patients 70 years of age or older had a higher incidence of IMLs than STIs (p less than 0.001). Patients less than 30 years old had a significantly greater incidence of STIs than IMLs (p less than 0.001). These data suggest that in MVA victims who are less than 30 years old, are hypotensive, and tachycardic, the diagnosis and emergent treatment of severe torso injury should take precedence over measures designed to detect and treat intracranial mass lesions. The converse is true for older patients injured in falls. 
Hepatic colorectal metastases: correlation of MR imaging and pathologic appearance. Results of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging examinations for 76 patients with proved colorectal metastases to the liver were retrospectively reviewed. Signal intensity and morphologic patterns of 157 lesions were scored. The morphologic patterns were correlated with the histologic material obtained at segmental hepatic resections or excisional biopsies in 33 patients. In 154 lesions (98%) colorectal metastases to the liver were found to be hyperintense on MR images acquired with a long repetition time/echo time; in 77 lesions (49%) central low-signal-intensity changes were seen. Virtually all larger lesions demonstrated areas of low signal intensity within the tumor. These areas were found to reflect histologic findings of coagulative necrosis and desmoplasia within the tumor. Peripheral hyperintense halos around central hypointense areas encompassed the growing tumor margin and variable degrees of cell necrosis. Hypointense peripheral rims, which correspond to abnormalities of surrounding hepatic parenchyma, were seen in 40 lesions (25%). This sign should not be assumed to represent the fibrous pseudocapsule of primary hepatic malignancy. No correlation between tumor grade (differentiation) and tumor morphology was observed. 
Relative efficacy of antithrombin compared with antiplatelet agents in accelerating coronary thrombolysis and preventing early reocclusion. BACKGROUND. Optimal coronary thrombolysis should be prompt and persistent. Although activation of platelets and increased thrombin activity have been associated with clinical thrombolysis, the role of each in delaying thrombolysis or inducing early coronary reocclusion has been difficult to define. METHODS AND RESULTS. In conscious dogs with coronary thrombosis induced by electrical current, we assessed the impact on the rapidity of thrombolysis and the incidence of reocclusion of two types of adjunctive treatment given concomitantly with intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA): 1) inhibition of platelet function with a peptide mimetic antagonist of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptors or with lysine acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and 2) inhibition of thrombin activity with recombinant hirudin or with heparin. ASA but not the receptor antagonist shortened the time to thrombolysis with t-PA (20 +/- 13 [mean +/- SD] minutes with ASA, 36 +/- 15 minutes with receptor antagonist, and 43 +/- 16 minutes with the saline control). Reocclusion occurred promptly after completion of the infusion of t-PA in all seven dogs given saline. Reocclusion was delayed and prevented in some dogs within 90 minutes after the end of the infusion of t-PA by both antiplatelet agents but still occurred in 42% despite continued inhibition of platelet function (i.e., three of six dogs given ASA and two of six given receptor antagonist). In contrast, inhibition of thrombin activity with recombinant hirudin in a dose that prolonged the partial thromboplastin time modestly (1.5-2-fold) resulted in accelerated lysis (19 +/- 10 minutes) and prevention of reocclusion in each of six dogs. Heparin given in doses that elicited similar prolongation of the partial thromboplastin time did not accelerate lysis nor prevent reocclusion, which occurred in five of six dogs. CONCLUSIONS. Inhibition of thrombin by recombinant hirudin facilitates thrombolysis and maintains patency of coronary arteries recanalized with t-PA particularly effectively. The benefit conferred may reflect direct anticoagulant effects plus diminished activation of platelets secondary to decreased thrombin activity. 
Long-term results of peridural morphine in 225 patients. The long-term results of peridural morphine in 225 cancer patients have been evaluated. Two methods were employed: percutaneously implanted catheter (175 patients) and subcutaneous reservoirs (50 patients). In the 225 patients, the mean duration of implantation of the peridural catheter was 47.3 days (7-420 days), the mean daily dose of morphine was 13.4 +/- 6.9 (5-80 mg) delivered by 2.6 +/- 0.7 (1-8) injections. The mean duration of action was calculated to be 9.3 +/- 3.8 h (3-32 h). Satisfactory analgesia was achieved in 133 patients (59.1%) in whom peridural morphine was the sole analgesic treatment. Peridural morphine appeared to be especially effective in patients with pain arising in the abdominal region. Complications due to morphine and the catheter were evaluated. 
Endoscopic injection sclerosis: effective treatment for bleeding peptic ulcer. One hundred and nine patients presenting with severe haemorrhage from benign peptic ulcers were randomised to either endoscopic injection sclerotherapy using a combination of 1:100,000 adrenaline and 5% ethanolamine or to conservative treatment. Only high risk patients with active bleeding or endoscopic stigmata of recent haemorrhage and accessible ulcers were considered. The two groups were well matched for age, shock, haemoglobin concentration, endoscopic findings, and consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The group treated endoscopically had a significantly reduced rebleeding rate (12.5% v 47%, p less than 0.001). Rebleeding was successfully treated in some patients by injection sclerotherapy, other patients underwent urgent surgery. While there was a tendency towards a lower operation rate and lower transfusion requirements in the treated group, this failed to achieve statistical significance. The use of injection sclerotherapy in the conservatively treated group after rebleeding undoubtedly reduced the number of surgical operations. Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy is effective in the prevention of rebleeding in these patients. 
Ultrasound in the diagnosis of the juxta-pleural lesion. Any opacity on a chest radiograph has a wide differential diagnosis. Plain radiography and computed tomography may help to differentiate whether bone, intercostal soft tissue or mediastinum are involved. Bronchoscopy is often negative with peripheral lesions. This leaves the physician with a diagnostic problem. We examined ultrasonically 30 patients with juxta-pleural lesions and performed cutting biopsy in 27. Twenty-four of these produced positive histology (90%). The three that were not biopsied were anechoic and had pulsatile lesions due to vascular abnormalities. There were four benign lesions all with hypoechoic appearances and the 20 malignant cases showed a wide spectrum of echogenicity. Of the malignant lesions, 90% showed pleural line disruption with reduced respiratory movement suggesting chest wall invasion. There were no complications, despite using cutting biopsy. 
Diabetic ketoacidosis. Neurologic collapse during treatment followed by severe developmental morbidity. Diabetic Ketoacidosis (DKA) remains the leading cause of death in children with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Complications occurring during DKA treatment include cerebral edema and neurologic collapse. Developmental outcomes following neurologic deterioration during DKA have varied from no sequelae to severe developmental disabilities. A total of three children developed neurologic deterioration during treatment of DKA at Buffalo Children's Hospital between 1984 and 1987. The authors treated aggressively for cerebral edema. Characteristic findings on the computed tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain included hemorrhagic infarctions of the thalami, basal ganglia and lentiform nuclei. The authors conducted developmental follow-up examinations between 1-1/2 - 3 years following recovery from DKA coma. Although they noted significant recoveries over time, developmental disabilities persisted. The clinical courses and neuroradiographic findings of these patients are compatible with sequelae of central brain stem herniation and cytotoxic brain injury. Continued efforts are needed in the prevention and early detection of clinically significant cerebral edema during treatment of DKA. 
Complications of a failed Bristow procedure and their management. The management of patients who have a failed Bristow reconstruction of the shoulder is very complex. In order to determine the complications that occur when a Bristow procedure fails, and how they should be managed, we retrospectively evaluated forty shoulders in thirty-nine patients who had been treated by the senior one of us for a failed Bristow procedure from 1977 to 1987. The complications of the index Bristow procedures included recurrent painful anterior instability, injury to the articular cartilage, failure of the coracoid bone-block to unite with the glenoid, loosening of the screw, neurovascular injury, and posterior instability. The primary etiology of failure of the index Bristow procedure was excessive laxity of the capsule in thirty-two shoulders (80 per cent) that were affected by chronic, painful anterior or posterior instability. An untreated Perthes-Bankart lesion was present in the remaining eight shoulders (20 per cent). The use of anterior reconstruction for the revision of a failed Bristow procedure is a difficult operation that necessitates meticulous technique. As our over-all plan of treatment resulted in a good or excellent outcome in only 50 per cent of the patients, we do not recommend the Bristow procedure for primary treatment of symptomatic anterior instability of the shoulder. 
Post-triathalon delirium [clinical conference] This is a case presentation of acute delirium in a previously healthy man. It was originally discussed during Morbidity and Mortality Conference at The George Washington, Georgetown Residency Program in Emergency Medicine, December 1989. 
Extensive Bowen's disease of the penile shaft treated with fresh tissue Mohs micrographic surgery in two separate operations. Bowen's disease or squamous cell carcinoma in situ is uncommon on the penile shaft. While surgical excision is the treatment of choice, the Mohs micrographic surgical approach ensures microscopically controlled tumor-free margins with preservation of normal tissue. While small- or medium-sized penile excisions heal very well by second intention, large areas of involvement are often grafted to prevent debilitating contractures. We report a case of near circumferential penile Bowen's disease treated by two separate operations that healed by second intention with very good cosmetic and functional results. 
Endothelin-1 induces hypertrophy with enhanced expression of muscle-specific genes in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. To determine whether endothelin-1 (ET-1) induces hypertrophy of cardiomyocytes, the effects of ET-1 on the expression of muscle-specific genes and a proto-oncogene, c-fos, in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were examined by Northern blot analysis. ET-1 (10(-7) M) induced about twofold to fourfold increases in the gene expression of myosin light chain 2, alpha-actin, and troponin I after 6 hours, which continued up to 24 hours. The ET-1-induced increases in mRNA levels for these muscle-specific genes were dose dependent (10(-9) to 10(-7) M). Run-on transcriptional assay showed that the changes in mRNA level for three muscle-specific genes were regulated, at least in part, at the transcriptional level. 12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA), a potent protein kinase C activator, and the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin also increased mRNA levels of three muscle-specific genes. ET-1, TPA, and ionomycin similarly induced the expression of c-fos after 30 minutes, which returned to an undetectable level after 6 hours. ET-1 remarkably and dose-dependently stimulated accumulation of total inositol phosphates in cardiomyocytes. Morphometrical evaluation showed that ET-1 significantly increased surface area of cardiomyocytes without cell proliferation. ET-1 also dose-dependently stimulated the synthesis of protein and DNA, which was unaffected by the L-type calcium channel blocker nicardipine. These data suggest that ET-1 induces hypertrophy of cardiomyocytes associated with the induction of muscle-specific gene transcripts through the possible involvement of protein kinase C activation or intracellular Ca2+ mobilization. 
MRI reveals multiple reversible cerebral lesions in an attack of acute intermittent porphyria. A 20-year-old woman had an attack of acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) with seizures and hallucinations. MRI revealed multiple lesions in both hemispheres. Both the cerebral clinical abnormalities and the MRI lesions resolved following treatment. These findings suggest that a vascular mechanism may underlie the pathogenesis of cerebral dysfunction in AIP. 
Detection of breast cancer. Routine screening has been shown to reduce the mortality from breast cancer in asymptomatic women. All women should be instructed in breast self-examination, and should begin a program of screening mammography and breast physical examination on an annual basis beginning at the age of 40. Most early breast cancers can be adequately treated without ablative surgery. 
Case report of a coronary anomaly: crossing obtuse marginal arteries. We present a coronary anomaly of crossing obtuse marginal branches of the left circumflex coronary artery which has not been seen in our laboratory or previously reported. Recognition of anomalous intramyocardial branches of the circumflex artery was important to avoid confusion with branches of the left anterior descending artery in conventional angiographic views and was clinically important as well. Intramyocardial vessels may not be easily bypassed surgically, and therefore angioplasty may be a better therapeutic option. 
Plasma lipid transfer protein as a determinant of the atherogenicity of monkey plasma lipoproteins. This study was undertaken to determine potential tissue sources of plasma cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), and to assess the influence of CETP on lipoprotein concentrations and atherosclerosis. In a group of 28 cynomolgus monkeys fed high fat, high cholesterol diets, plasma CETP concentration was strongly correlated with the abundance of CETP mRNA in liver and in adipose tissue, and with the output of CETP in liver perfusates. Plasma CETP concentration showed a strong inverse correlation with HDL cholesterol concentrations (r = -0.62, P less than 0.001) and a positive correlation with LDL cholesterol concentration (r = 0.54, P less than 0.005) and molecular weight (r = 0.57, P less than 0.001). The extent of coronary artery atherosclerosis was positively correlated with LDL cholesterol concentration and molecular weight, and with plasma CETP concentration. Thus, in monkeys fed an atherogenic diet, individual variation in CETP mRNA abundance in liver and adipose tissue probably plays a major role in the determination of plasma CETP levels. In plasma, CETP influences the distribution of cholesteryl esters between LDL and HDL, and CETP concentration appears to be a key determinant of the relative atherogenicity of the plasma lipoproteins. 
Chronic venous insufficiency in primary varicose veins evaluated by plethysmographic technique. Venous hemodynamics were evaluated by plethysmography in normal subjects and patients with venous disorders of the lower extremity, to clarify the pathophysiology of chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) due to primary varicose veins. Expelled volume during five active dorsiflexions of the feet and venous recovery time were calculated to evaluate muscle pump efficiency and valvular competence. Limbs with CVI due to primary varicose veins showed a higher expelled volume and a more shortened refilling time than limbs with simple varicosities. With application of tourniquets, the refilling time normalized in limbs with CVI, as well as in limbs with simple varicosities. These results indicate that a high degree of venous congestion in the distal part of the calf and valvular incompetence of the superficial vein system might cause CVI due to primary varicose veins. 
Spontaneous common iliac arteriovenous fistula manifested by acute renal failure: a case report. Arteriovenous fistulas between the common iliac vessels resulting from spontaneous rupture of aneurysms are rare, with only 31 cases having been reported since 1971. Clinical diagnosis is possible when a unique set of findings is present, namely high-output cardiac failure, a pulsatile abdominal mass associated with a bruit or thrill, and unilateral arterial insufficiency or venous engorgement. Recently, with advancements in diagnostic techniques, the number of cases in which an arteriovenous fistula is found between the common iliac vessels has increased. Diagnosis can be difficult, however, as in the case of one of our patients in whom the predominant sign was acute renal failure. Other reports of renal failure or impairment in the presence of a common iliac fistula have also appeared. Awareness of this phenomenon can help the physician to establish the diagnosis when one or more of the classic signs are absent. Prompt diagnosis and surgical management have contributed to the high incidence of survival in patients with arteriovenous fistulas between the common iliac vessels. 
Management of the recalcitrant total-hip arthroplasty wound. The infection rate for total-hip arthroplasty is around 1 percent. This small group is usually managed by complete removal of the prosthesis and the cement and closure over suction catheters to "collapse" the wound and eventually achieve a girdlestone arthroplasty. Occasionally, there are patients who have a persistent draining wound after this treatment and repeated efforts at wound closure. We present 27 patients who had recalcitrant, noncollapsible wounds of the hip that were present for many months to years. Twenty-eight cases of infected total-hip arthroplasties that did not respond to removal of the prosthesis and cement and closure were seen by the authors between January of 1977 and December of 1988. One patient had bilateral involvement. Average age was 64 years (range 33 to 79 years). There was an average of 4.2 previous surgical attempts at closure (range 1 to 21). Staphylococcus aureus was the most common organism, but the infections were virtually all multiple. Thirty-three muscles were utilized in 27 patients. The rectus femoris was used in 23 cases, the vastus lateralis in 8, tensor fasciae latae in 1, and combined latissimus dorsi-serratus anterior free-tissue transfers were carried out in 2. Multiple combinations of transpositions and free flaps were utilized. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 10 years, with an average of 6.4 years. Eighteen patients were ambulatory with minor degrees of pain, five ambulated with a cane, seven ambulated with a walker, six ambulated with crutches, and four ambulated unassisted, all of whom had reimplantation of their hip arthroplasty at least 12 months following the muscle flap procedure. 
Effect of meal on the physiological and physicochemical actions of potassium citrate. The effect of meals on the physiological and physicochemical actions of potassium citrate was examined in 8 patients with nephrolithiasis maintained on a constant metabolic dietary regimen. Potassium citrate (20 mEq. 3 times per day), whether given with food or on an empty stomach, significantly increased urinary pH, citrate and potassium, and decreased urinary calcium and ammonium. Moreover, potassium citrate decreased urinary saturation of calcium oxalate and uric acid, although it slightly increased that of brushite. However, there was no significant difference in these measures when the drug was given with meals from the time when it was given on an empty stomach. Thus, the effect of potassium citrate on urinary risk factors is unaffected by food. 
cis-platinum ototoxicity in children. Despite the recognized ototoxicity of cis-platinum, a clinical outline for the audiologic evaluation of patients receiving this drug has not been clearly defined. In a practical approach to this problem, the audiograms of 48 pediatric patients referred for monitoring during planned cis-platinum therapy were reviewed. Eleven patients tested with auditory brain-stem response (ABR) audiometry demonstrated several limitations of this modality. Fourteen children underwent initial ABR testing followed by at least two pure-tone audiograms. The remaining 23 patients had their hearing evaluated by pure-tone audiometry only. Various factors such as patient age, cis-platinum dosage, and cranial radiation exposure were analyzed for apparent effect. Younger patients tended to be more susceptible to audiologic changes with the administration of cis-platinum. The proportion of patients who demonstrated a hearing loss increased with successive dosing as did the severity of the hearing loss. Prior exposure to cranial radiation was strongly linked to the development of hearing loss following cis-platinum therapy. Guidelines are presented regarding the use of clinical audiometry in the screening of these pediatric oncology patients. 
Undifferentiated carcinoma of the endometrium. A histopathologic and clinical study of 31 cases. A histopathologic review of 1985 cases of endometrial carcinoma yielded 31 undifferentiated carcinomas (1.6%). Forty-eight percent were large cell type and 52%, intermediate/small cell type. Twenty-one tumors were examined immunohistochemically. All stained for keratin. Eleven tumors reacted with vimentin antibodies, two with carcinoembryonic antigen antibodies, and ten with neuron-specific enolase (NSE) antibodies (four of which stained for bombesin, two for beta-endorphin, one for prealbumin, five for Leu7, and four for synaptophysin). The mean age at diagnosis was 63.9 years (range, 45 to 86). The crude 5-year and 10-year survival was 58% and 48%, respectively. Seventy-nine percent of the patients in surgicopathologic Stage I and 33% in Stage II survived 5 years. The intermediate/small cell types had a somewhat better prognosis than the large cell type, but the difference was not statistically significant. The presence or absence of NSE and vimentin immunoreactivity had no influence on survival. All patients with tumors infiltrating less than one half of the myometrium survived 5 years in contrast with 46% of the patients with deep infiltrating tumors. Fifty-four percent of the patients with demonstrable vessel invasion survived 5 years in contrast with 89% not so affected. 
Differential effect of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator-induced thrombolysis in the central nervous system and systemic arteries. Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA) has been more effective in inducing thrombolysis in laboratory studies of intracranial thrombosis than clinical studies of systemic or coronary thrombosis would indicate. To evaluate this discrepancy, 21 rabbits were subjected to embolic occlusion of the right internal carotid artery (ICA) by retrograde injection of a tin-tagged, 2-hour-old autologous clot through the external carotid artery with angiographic monitoring in the same manner as in a previously reported model. The emboli lodged intracranially at the bifurcation of the ICA in 10 animals and in the cervical ICA in 11 animals. Digital subtraction angiography confirmed total occlusion of the ICA in all animals. Treatment started one-half hour after embolization and consisted of a bolus of 0.5 mg/kg of rTPA followed by an infusion of 1 mg/kg/h for 2 hours. All of the animals with intracranial emboli and 6 of the animals with cervical emboli were treated intravenously. The remaining 5 animals with cervical emboli were treated by intracarotid infusion of the same dose of rTPA. In the intravenously treated group, serial digital subtraction angiography documented thrombolysis in 9 of the 10 animals with intracranial emboli and only 1 of the 6 with cervical emboli. Thrombolysis occurred in 4 of the 5 rabbits with cervical emboli treated with intracarotid rTPA. Intravenous rTPA therapy produced a significantly (P less than 0.01) higher rate of thrombolysis in intracranial as compared to cervical thrombus. 
Cognitive development of children following early repair of transposition of the great arteries using deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. Twenty-eight children who underwent corrective cardiac surgery in early infancy had developmental evaluations to explore whether cardiopulmonary bypass perfusion variables are associated with later cognitive function. All had transposition of the great arteries repaired by the arterial switch operation using deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. The mean duration of deep hypothermic circulatory arrest was 64 +/- 10 minutes (mean +/- SD). Median age at repair was 4 days (range 1 to 125 days). Tests of development were administered at age 7 to 53 months: Bayley Scales for children younger than 30 months of age (n = 18) and McCarthy Scales for older children (n = 10). Overall cognitive development score was 101.2 +/- 11.1. Duration of deep hypothermic circulatory arrest was not associated with performance. However, for core cooling periods of less than 20 minutes' duration, shorter cooling periods were associated with lower scores (r = .85, n = 11, P less than .001). These data suggest that patients undergoing relatively long periods of deep hypothermic circulatory arrest may require some minimum time of cardiopulmonary bypass cooling to avoid central nervous system injury. 
Appendicitis. Improvements in diagnosis and treatment. The results of therapy in cases of suspected acute appendicitis were reviewed in 844 consecutive cases of appendicitis occurring over a 3-year period. A diagnostic accuracy of 87.4 per cent was found as well as a perforation rate of 18.4 per cent. Complication rates varied with the clinical state of the appendix: 16 per cent in perforated, 5.6 per cent in nonperforated, and 11.3 per cent in normal appendices. Excellent results were routinely obtainable employing early operative intervention, perioperative antibiotics, and a systematic surgical approach. 
Evaluation of a structured treatment and teaching programme on asthma. The objective of this study was to evaluate a structured treatment and teaching programme for adult patients with moderate to severe asthma. The design consisted of a prospective, before-after trial: the same consecutive patients were studied before and after intervention with observation periods 1 year before and 1 year after intervention. The investigation took place within a tertiary care centre (university hospital). A total of 142 consecutive patients were referred for in-patient treatment of their asthma, of whom 132 (93%) patients participated in the follow-up examination. The intervention consisted of a structured 5-d in-patient treatment and teaching programme presented by a specialized nurse educator. The aim of the programme was for the patient to assume greater responsibility for disease management, including self-monitoring of peak expiratory flow and qualified self-adaptation of drug therapy. The main outcome measures were the frequency of severe asthma attacks, hospitalization, and absenteeism from work (data provided by health insurance companies), patients' compliance and management skills. During the year before and the year after the intervention 71% and 36%, respectively of patients had one or more severe asthma attacks (mean difference 35%, 95% CI: 25-45%, P less than 0.0001). The percentage of patients who were hospitalized because of asthma decreased from 39% to 22% (mean difference 17%, 95% CI: 7-27%, P less than 0.002). The percentage of employed patients (n = 67) who were absent from work because of asthma decreased from 60% to 43% (mean difference 17%, 95% CI: 4-30%, P less than 0.04). The patients' adherence to maintenance drug therapy and their management skills improved significantly. It was concluded that the participation of patients with moderate to severe asthma in a structured treatment and teaching programme resulted in a substantial reduction in asthma morbidity in the year following the intervention. 
Decreasing severity of chronic uveitis in children with pauciarticular arthritis. We compared the current prevalence and severity of chronic uveitis in children with pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in Seattle, Wash, with that of children with the same condition in the same area in 1975. The prevalence of eye disease decreased from 45% in 1975 to 13% in 1989, and the proportion of patients with severe visual loss decreased from 21% in 1975 to none in 1989. We could not attribute these findings to differences in known risk factors for iritis, such as age, sex, or presence of antinuclear antibodies. There was no difference in the duration of follow-up between the two groups. It is possible that the decline in prevalence of uveitis reflects a referral bias for eye disease in the 1975 population. However, the decrease in disease severity remains unexplained and may represent more effective treatment, earlier surveillance for ocular disease, or a change in the frequency of ocular manifestations of this disease in the 1989 group. 
Angiofibromas of the postnasal space: a critical appraisal of various therapeutic modalities. Angiofibromas of the postnasal space are an enigma to the treating surgeon in view of their extensions around the skull base. The availability of modern investigative procedures has to some extent facilitated the decision making process in choosing a suitable surgical approach. Proper tumour staging and the earliest and widest possible exposure tailored to the needs of the specific situation together with adequate blood replacement is the key to success in minimizing the chances of the recurrence. The present study aims at an evaluation of the methodology adopted in 100 serial cases of angiofibromas of the postnasal space. After initial surgery, a further 31 procedures were needed for the management of recurrences. 
Outcome after major dissection during coronary angioplasty using the perfusion balloon catheter. Coronary artery dissection is an infrequent but serious complication of coronary angioplasty that can lead to periprocedural vessel occlusion, emergency bypass surgery, myocardial infarction or death. Recently, a perfusion balloon catheter was developed that permits passive perfusion of blood through the central lumen of the catheter. It enables prolonged balloon inflations to be performed and has been used to provide distal blood flow after coronary occlusion. To evaluate the effectiveness of the perfusion balloon catheter in patients with major coronary dissections, 36 consecutive patients treated with the perfusion balloon catheter were compared with 46 consecutive patients treated before its availability. The 2 groups were similar in terms of clinical, angiographic and initial procedural characteristics. Use of the perfusion balloon catheter permitted a significantly longer inflation than standard balloon inflation (average 18 +/- 5 min). Angiographic success was significantly greater with the perfusion balloon catheter (84 vs 62% for conventional therapy), whereas complications were markedly reduced (48 vs 78%). With the perfusion balloon catheter there were fewer deaths (2 vs 6%), myocardial infarctions (14 vs 40%) and emergency bypass operations (11 vs 25%). The findings of this retrospective comparison demonstrate that the perfusion balloon catheter is effective for the management of major dissections after coronary angioplasty. The use of the perfusion balloon catheter should be considered when a major coronary dissection occurs and when emergency bypass surgery is contemplated. 
Early clinical experience with the transverse colon-gastric tube continent urinary reservoir. The clinical results of the first 4 patients undergoing reconstruction with the transverse colon-gastric tube urinary reservoir are presented. All patients had a minimum 1-year follow-up. All 4 patients are continent with stable or improved renal function. Two patients required reoperation. Indications as well as possible modifications of this procedure are discussed. 
Arterial chemoreceptor input to respiratory hypoglossal motoneurons. To better understand the role of the arterial chemoreceptors in the regulation of upper airway patency at the level of the oropharynx, intracellular recordings were obtained from inspiratory hypoglossal motoneurons (IHMs), and the responses to selective activation of the carotid body chemoreceptors were examined. In pentobarbital-anesthetized, vagotomized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated cats, chemoreceptor activation enhanced the inspiratory depolarization of membrane potential in 32 of 36 IHMs. This was manifested as an increase in either the amplitude (n = 13) or duration (n = 3) or an increase in both amplitude and duration (n = 16) of the inspiratory membrane potential depolarization. The amplitude and duration of the inspiratory membrane potential depolarization increased 98 +/- 15% (n = 29) and 78 +/- 13% (n = 19), respectively. Similar patterns of enhanced activity (increased duration and/or amplitude of membrane depolarization) were observed in five expiratory hypoglossal motoneurons (EHMs) after chemoreceptor activation. In 16 of the 32 IHMs, chemoreceptor activation also evoked changes in IHM membrane potential during expiration: enhanced post-inspiratory discharge (n = 6), expiratory depolarization/discharge (n = 6), and tonic depolarization/discharge, which persisted for several respiratory cycles (n = 4). The arterial chemoreceptors provide a powerful excitatory input to IHMs during both inspiration and expiration. This excitatory drive to IHMs and EHMs will aid in the maintenance of upper airway patency throughout the respiratory cycle during increases in end-tidal CO2. 
Upper abdominal cancer surgery in the very elderly. From January 1981 to December 1987, 59 major upper abdominal operations were performed on 57 patients aged 80 to 90 years at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Procedures for primary adenocarcinoma of the stomach, distal esophagus, pancreas, or hepatobiliary system were performed with curative intent or for palliation in 34 of 59 patients (58%) and bypass with limited or no resection in 13 of 59 patients (22%) patients. Emergency operations were performed in six (10%) patients for gastric bleeding, perforation, or outlet obstruction. Six (10%) patients underwent laparotomy for benign biliary obstruction (1), splenectomy for secondary thrombocytopenia (2), or gastrectomy for sarcoma (2) or lymphoma (1). Hospital mortality was 15% overall and 9% for major resections, 15% for bypass, and 67% for emergency procedures. Major complications occurred in 10 (20%) elective procedures. Mortality was associated with respiratory or cardiac failure while complications most commonly included arrhythmias and wound infection. Mean postoperative hospitalization was 18 days overall and 45 patients (76%) were discharged home. Median survival following major resection was 17.5 months but less than 2 months after bypass procedures. A protocol of pre-operative evaluation, intra-operative hemodynamic monitoring and postoperative intensive care has been formalized for use in elderly or poor-risk patients. 
Cytokine-endothelial interactions in inflammation, immunity, and vascular injury. This paper reviews the evidence that cytokines induce a variety of functional and structural alterations in endothelium and that cytokine-endothelial interactions play important roles in the evolution of inflammatory and immune responses. The effect of cytokines, particularly interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor, on leukocyte-endothelial adhesion has led to the discovery of several endothelial adhesion molecules, and the molecular and biological characteristics of these are described. Finally, the review discusses the possible contribution of cytokine-induced activation to vascular injury in such pathological processes as septic shock, the Shwartzman reaction, delayed hypersensitivity, and immune-mediated vasculitis. 
The Dubbo study of the health of elderly: correlates of coronary heart disease at study entry. A prospective study of the health of elderly Australians recently commenced in Dubbo, NSW, the study population comprising 1,237 males and 1,568 females 60 years and older. The prevalence rates of coronary heart disease (CHD) and its associated risk factors have been examined in the baseline data. The age-standardized rate of CHD was 23.8/100 in males and 18.1/100 in females. The prevalence rate increased with age until 79 years in males, thereafter declining. The rate increased steadily with age in females. In a multiple logistic model, the following possible predictors of CHD were included: age, cigarette smoking, use of alcohol, exercise, religiosity, years of education, hypertension, diabetes, family history of CHD, body mass index, lipid and lipoprotein variables. The presence of CHD in males was significantly predicted by age, hypertension (odds ratio, OR = 1.40), family history (OR = 2.05), and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (OR = 0.78). The significant predictors in females were age, years of education (OR = 0.82), hypertension (OR = 1.45), family history (OR = 1.77), serum triglycerides (OR = 1.30), and HDL cholesterol (OR = 0.73). Hypertension was found to be a stronger predictor of CHD in the younger age group (60-69 years), while diabetes was a predictor of CHD in older males (70-79 years). Our findings require confirmation in the prospective study now in progress. 
General moderate hypothermia in the surgical treatment of descending thoracic aortic aneurysms. The diagnosis and surgical treatment of aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta is difficult and some aspects of management remain controversial. We report 53 patients treated in the period 1983-1988; 25.9% of them had previously been erroneously diagnosed as having mediastinal cysts or tumours. Duplex scanning and computerised tomography were valuable adjuncts in establishing the correct diagnosis, which was confirmed by aortography in 52 patients. Of 49 patients operated upon electively three died with a mortality rate of 6.1%; of the 4 patients operated upon as emergencies 2 died. Fifty patients survived the operative procedure and of the 3 operated upon under normothermia 1 developed paraplegia, whereas of the 47 patients operated upon under moderate hypothermia (30 degrees-31 degrees C) only 1 developed paraplegia. 
Magnetic resonance imaging for calf deep venous thrombophlebitis. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the calf with venography for patients with suspected calf deep venous thrombophlebitis (DVT). DESIGN: Ten consecutive adult patients with suspected calf DVT received venography and, within 48 hours, MRI scans. The tests were reviewed blindly by two radiologists, and results of the tests were compared. SETTING: The emergency department of a large teaching hospital with an annual census of 60,000 patients. MAIN RESULTS: All patients with negative venograms had no suggestion of DVT on MRI scan. Two of these patients had other significant demonstrable abnormalities. Four of the five patients with positive venograms had positive calf MRI scans. One patient with a venogram that was difficult to interpret had no DVT on MRI. A thigh DVT was seen on his venogram and was suggested by MRI findings. CONCLUSION: MRI may replace ascending venography as the standard for diagnosis of calf DVT. 
Superoxide dismutase decreases mortality, blood pressure, and cerebral blood flow responses induced by acute hypertension in rats. Oxygen radicals are known to be produced by the cerebral vasculature during acute, pressor-induced hypertension and are also known to inactivate endothelium-derived relaxing factor. The objective of our present study was to determine if the oxygen radical scavenger superoxide dismutase (24,000 units/kg plus 1,600 units/kg/min) alters the pressor, cerebral blood flow, and mortality responses to systemic norepinephrine in rats. Increasing doses (0.01-30 micrograms/kg i.v.) of norepinephrine were given by bolus injection to eight rats, and changes in the cortical microcirculatory blood flow were measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Superoxide dismutase shifted the norepinephrine-blood pressure and -cerebral blood flow dose-response curves moderately, but significantly, to the right such that it took more norepinephrine to reach a given blood pressure. However, superoxide dismutase had no effect on the autoregulation of cerebral blood flow. Additionally, whereas five (63%) of the eight control rats died after the 10 micrograms/kg norepinephrine dose, all eight rats treated with superoxide dismutase survived this dose. The mechanism by which superoxide dismutase reduced mortality is uncertain. The blood pressure and cerebral blood flow results suggest that superoxide dismutase prevents oxygen radicals from destroying endothelium-derived relaxing factors, which reduce the pressor effects of norepinephrine. 
Nasopharyngeal flora in the first three years of life in normal and otitis-prone children. Nasopharyngeal carriage of the three major middle ear pathogens (Streptococcus pneumoniae, nontypeable Hemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis) was evaluated prospectively in a group of 110 children followed up for the first 3 years of life. The findings suggested that nasopharyngeal carriage of middle ear pathogens increases significantly during respiratory illness among the general population of young children; however, otitis-prone children demonstrated a tendency to carry nontypeable H influenzae at an unusually high rate even during health. This propensity to carry nontypeable H influenzae might explain why nontypeable H influenzae is a major cause of recurrent or chronic otitis media. 
Isolated T-wave abnormalities and evaluation of left ventricular wall motion after nifedipine for severe hypertension. Rapid reduction of blood pressure by vasodilators in severe hypertensives has been associated with T-wave inversion. The significance of these changes in the absence of chest pain or other manifestations of ischemia is not known. To determine if these T-wave inversions are due to myocardial ischemia, we obtained electrocardiograms and left ventricular wall motion studies (2-D echocardiography) before and 1 h after rapid blood pressure reduction with nifedipine in 23 severe hypertensives. One hour after 10 mg nifedipine blood pressure was markedly reduced from 189 +/- 6/117 +/- 3 (mean +/- SE) to 151 +/- 5/91 +/- 3 mm Hg (P less than .001). New T-wave inversions developed in 6 of 23 (26%) subjects, but blinded evaluation of 2-D echocardiograms revealed no new wall motion abnormalities. Wall motion score, which at pretreatment was abnormal in 11 of 23 patients, improved significantly after nifedipine from 1.4 +/- 0.1 to 1.2 +/- 0.1 (P less than .05). Therefore, rapid and marked reduction of blood pressure with nifedipine is accompanied by a high incidence of asymptomatic T-wave inversions which are not accompanied by left ventricular wall motion abnormalities, suggesting that significant myocardial ischemia did not occur. 
Pharyngeal ulceration in AIDS patients secondary to cytomegalovirus infection. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are common and may present as retinitis, encephalitis, esophagitis, gastritis, enterocolitis, adrenalitis, or pneumonitis. Three patients are presented with pharyngeal ulcerations secondary to CMV. Similar cases have not been previously described in the literature. Symptoms, physical findings, and the treatment of this clinical entity are discussed. Although pharyngeal CMV ulcers are not life-threatening, they may herald multisystemic CMV infection that may require prompt antiviral chemotherapy. 
Electrophysiologic effects and clinical hazards of carbamazepine treatment for neurologic disorders in patients with abnormalities of the cardiac conduction system. Carbamazepine, a first-line drug for the treatment of epilepsy and neuralgia, may exert hazardous effects on the cardiac conduction system. Standard ECG and long-term ECG monitoring and invasive electrophysiologic testing were carried out in 10 patients who required this drug for neurologic disorders, but in whom its safe use had been questioned because of symptoms of ECG abnormalities. We observed depression of sinus node function and an atrioventricular conduction delay with a significant prolongation of the PQ interval of 16 msec (9%; 95% confidence interval: 1.9% to 16.5%; p less than 0.05), of which the HV interval was significantly prolonged but not the PA and AH intervals. These effects are in accordance with previously shown class 1A properties. However, the lack of effects on QRS, JT, and QT intervals at normal heart rates is a class 1B characteristic. Thus carbamazepine seems to have composite electropharmacologic actions. A cause effect relationship between carbamazepine treatment and significant arrhythmias was established in five patients. Thus the negative chronotropic and dromotropic effects of carbamazepine may, at least in predisposed patients, induce symptoms confusingly similar to the epileptic seizures it is used to prevent. 
More accurate diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome by the use of 'non-colonic' symptomatology. The criteria now used in an attempt to distinguish irritable bowel syndrome from organic gastrointestinal disease rely almost entirely on symptoms of colonic origin. 'Non-colonic' symptoms, however, arising either from elsewhere in the gut or of a more general nature, are common in irritable bowel syndrome and may have even better diagnostic potential. The prevalence of these non-colonic features was assessed in 107 patients with the irritable bowel syndrome and 295 subjects with other gut disorders. Gastrointestinal type non-colonic symptoms are useful in differentiating irritable bowel syndrome from inflammatory bowel disease but, with the exception of early satiety, are not helpful when there is gastro-oesophageal or biliary disease. More general 'non-colonic' features, such as lethargy and backache, are much commoner in irritable bowel syndrome than in all the organic gastrointestinal diseases studied and have good discriminant function. Multiple logistic regression analysis identified certain features that had a particularly significant independent risk for irritable bowel syndrome. Those were lethargy (relative risk 6.7), incomplete evacuation (RR 5.2), age under 40 (RR 2.1), backache (RR 2.0), early satiety (RR 1.8), and frequency of micturition (RR 1.8). These relative risks can be multiplied together to give an overall risk when more than one of these features is present in a patient. Until a diagnostic test is available more confident diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome can be achieved by identifying symptoms that have good discriminant function. The results of this study indicate that the non-colonic features of irritable bowel syndrome may be especially valuable in this respect. 
Factors influencing admission blood pressure levels in patients with acute stroke. In clinical practice, patients with acute stroke often have high blood pressure. The aim of this study was to investigate factors correlated with blood pressure elevation in 843 consecutive stroke patients on hospital admission to a nonintensive stroke unit. Using a multivariate analysis model, we analyzed the influence on admission blood pressure of sex, age, previous hypertension, cardiac failure, diabetes, type of stroke, impaired consciousness, and latency between onset of symptoms and admission. Previous hypertension was the strongest predictor (p less than 0.001) of elevated blood pressure on admission, followed by the presence of intracerebral hemorrhage (p less than 0.001). The latency between onset of symptoms and admission showed no correlation with blood pressure levels at hospitalization. Previously, high blood pressure levels on hospital admission have been shown to decline within a few days in hospital. We therefore hypothesize that mental stress on hospital admission may be a major factor in the blood pressure elevation seen in acute stroke. 
Antiemetic efficacy of ondansetron after outpatient laparoscopy. The safety and efficacy of ondansetron were evaluated for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting after laparoscopic surgical procedures. Seventy-one healthy, consenting outpatients were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups according to a double-blind, placebo-controlled protocol. A standardized anesthetic technique consisting of alfentanil-thiopental-succinylcholine for induction and alfentanil-nitrous oxide-succinylcholine for maintenance of anesthesia was used. Patients in whom postoperative nausea and/or vomiting developed and persisted for greater than or equal to 10 min received equivolemic intravenous injections of either ondansetron (8 mg) or saline (placebo) over a 2-5 min period. Ondansetron significantly decreased the posttreatment nausea scores (vs placebo) without increasing sedation or producing changes in cardiorespiratory parameters. In the placebo-treated group, 92% of the patients experienced subsequent episodes of vomiting in the postanesthesia care unit compared with 51% of the patients in the ondansetron group. Finally, only 43% of the ondansetron-treated patients required a "rescue" antiemetic compared with 86% in the placebo group. Thus, ondansetron (8 mg IV) was associated with a decreased incidence of nausea and vomiting after outpatient laparoscopic procedures. 
Malignant renal tumors in tuberous sclerosis. Although the frequency of renal carcinoma in tuberous sclerosis is lower than that in von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, it occurs bilaterally in 43 percent of patients at a median age of twenty-eight years. Concomitant hamartomas and hyperplastic cystic components may confound the histologic diagnosis of renal carcinoma in tuberous sclerosis. 
Antihypertensive therapy and atherosclerosis. Hypertension and atherosclerosis make independent contributions to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. Diuretics and beta adrenergic blockers, effective antihypertensive medications, exhibit some untoward effects on lipid metabolism, while most other antihypertensive medications tend not to exhibit such effects. In animal models, beta adrenergic blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and calcium antagonists have anti-atherogenic effects. A vascular biological approach to therapy for the patient with both hypertension and atherosclerosis is recommended. This includes effective reduction of blood pressure--preferably with agents that do not adversely affect lipid metabolism--and treatment of lipid metabolism disorders. 
Detection of aneuploidy involving chromosomes 13, 18, or 21, by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to interphase and metaphase amniocytes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with chromosome-specific probes has been applied to detection of numerical aberrations involving chromosomes 13, 18, and 21 in metaphase and interphase amniocytes. High-complexity, composite probes for chromosomes 13, 18, and 21 were used as hybridization probes for this study. These probes were constructed as chromosome-specific libraries in Bluescribe plasmids and are designated pBS-13, pBS-18, and pBS-21. Elements of these probes bind at numerous sites along the target chromosome and, when detected fluorescently, stain essentially the entire long arm of the target chromosome. The target chromosome number (i.e., the number of chromosomes of the type for which the probe was specific) was correctly determined in 20 of 20 samples in which metaphase spreads were analyzed and in 43 of 43 samples in which interphase nuclei were analyzed; all of these studies were conducted in blind fashion. These results suggest the utility of FISH with composite probes for rapid detection of numerical aberrations in metaphase and interphase amniotic cells. 
Cell adhesion molecules and the regulation of development. Cell adhesion molecules, in conjunction with the other morphoregulatory molecules, substrate adhesion molecules and cell junctional molecules, are dynamically expressed in coordinate patterns throughout development. Their activities are linked to a variety of cellular processes, and their ability to influence mechanochemical processes allows them to influence a variety of other fundamental developmental events. The clinical significance of these molecules remains to be determined, but they are clearly involved in a number of pathologic conditions and could become the focus of a wide range of diagnostic techniques and eventually even therapeutic designs. 
Enalapril prevents cardiac fibrosis and arrhythmias in hypertensive rats. To evaluate the effects of hypertension on cardiac hypertrophy, on myocardial structure, and on ventricular arrhythmias, 27 3-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril (10 mg/kg) daily for 11 months and compared with 26 untreated control rats. Systolic arterial pressure was significantly decreased in treated rats, and at the end of the experiment, it was 199 +/- 3 mm Hg (treated) versus 237 +/- 3 mm Hg (controls) (p less than 0.001). At this time, spontaneous arrhythmias and induced arrhythmias either by programmed electrical stimulation (train of stimuli +1 or 2 extrastimuli) or by trains of eight stimuli at decreasing coupling intervals were observed in isolated heart preparations. Comparing enalapril-treated and control rats, spontaneous arrhythmias (9 of 27 versus 20 of 26, respectively; p less than 0.01), programmed stimulation-induced arrhythmias (3 of 26 versus 12 of 23, respectively; p less than 0.01), and trains of stimuli-induced arrhythmias (4 of 26 versus 14 of 19, respectively, p less than 0.001) were less frequent in the enalapril group. Left ventricular weight was decreased in treated rats by 18% (p less than 0.001). Enalapril administration diminished the fraction of myocardium occupied by foci of replacement fibrosis normally occurring in control rats by 59% (p less than 0.001). Finally, a significant correlation was found between left ventricular weight, the extent of myocardial fibrosis, and the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation. It was concluded that chronic treatment with enalapril, which resulted in attenuation of systemic arterial pressure by limiting cardiac hypertrophy and myocardial fibrosis, decreases the propensity of the heart of hypertensive rats to arrhythmogenesis. 
The personality pattern of duodenal ulcer patients in relation to spontaneous ulcer healing and relapse. One hundred consecutive out-patients with duodenal ulceration from a hospital and a gastroenterological clinic were tested with the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI). This was carried out in order to investigate whether neuroticism or other personality disorders were characteristics of duodenal ulcer patients, and whether the presence of such possible personality disorders might influence the prognosis of the disease. Neuroticism occurred in 53% of the patients, but only in 5% of controls (P less than 0.0001). Overall, personality disorders were present in 69% of the patients compared with 30% of the controls (P less than 0.0001). Neuroticism was connected with a high frequency of relapse (P less than 0.05) whereas failure of spontaneous ulcer healing had no certain relation to personality disorders. Patients with non-neurotic personality disorders had more frequently suffered stressful life events before entrance to the study (P less than 0.05) and, like the neurotic patients, they had lower ego-strength to cope with such events (P less than 0.05). The results indicate that personality assessments make it possible to distinguish between subgroups of duodenal ulcer patients with different course of the disease. 
Patient and technique survival for blind and sighted diabetics on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis: a ten-year analysis. A retrospective analysis of patient and technique survival over 10 years in a group of 66 diabetics (40 being blind) and 71 non-diabetics was undertaken. Patient survival profiles showed that the blind diabetics lived longer than the sighted, but for a shorter time than the nondiabetics. In technique success, the sighted diabetics out did the blind and the non-diabetics, long term. Short term, the blind performed better than sighted diabetics. The key to success and longer survival on CAPD depended on motivation on the part of the patient, patient's acceptance of given disability, family (social) support, and willingness on the part of renal care personnel to train the disabled diabetic to perform CAPD. With adequate education and support, blind diabetics did CAPD as well as sighted patients. There was no increased frequency of peritonitis in blind diabetics compared to sighted diabetics. Both blind diabetics and non-diabetics had fewer episodes than sighted diabetics. Intraperitoneal route of insulin administration achieved good glycemic control in diabetic population. Refractory congestive cardiac failure and/or fatal arrhythmias was the most common cardiac cause of death in diabetics on CAPD. 
Effect of combinations of cytokines and hormones on synthesis of serum amyloid A and C-reactive protein in Hep 3B cells. We have previously shown that induction of synthesis of the two major human acute phase proteins, serum amyloid A (SAA) and C-reactive protein (CRP), can be accomplished in the human hepatoma cell line Hep 3B, in the presence of dexamethasone, either by conditioned medium from LPS-stimulated monocytes or by the combination of IL-6 and IL-1. Neither of these cytokines alone caused significant induction of either SAA or CRP. In the present study we extended our earlier observations by evaluating the role of dexamethasone, the effect of different concentrations of IL-6 and IL-1 alpha in combination, and the possible role of TNF-alpha in regulating synthesis of SAA and CRP. Dexamethasone alone had no effect on induction of SAA or CRP. Incubation of Hep 3B cells with conditioned medium from LPS-stimulated monocytes, in the absence of dexamethasone, led to modest induction of SAA or CRP, but addition of dexamethasone potentiated this response in a dose-dependent manner. Similar results were obtained for the effect of dexamethasone on the induction of SAA by IL-6 plus IL-1 alpha. Checkerboard titration of IL-6 and IL-1 alpha revealed that increases in concentration of either cytokine led to dose-related increases in synthesis of both SAA and CRP as long as a minimal amount of the other cytokine was present. TNF-alpha alone had no significant effect on synthesis of either SAA or CRP, but the combination of IL-6 plus TNF-alpha led to substantial induction of SAA. This combination was less effective than the combination of IL-6 plus IL-1 alpha. No detectable effect of IL-6 plus TNF-alpha was observed on CRP synthesis. Both combinations of cytokines, IL-6 plus IL-1 alpha, and IL-6 plus TNF-alpha, caused increased SAA mRNA accumulation that roughly paralleled increase in synthesis. These data indicate that IL-6, IL-1 alpha, TNF-alpha, and dexamethasone in various combinations are all capable of influencing synthesis of SAA in Hep 3B cells, whereas only IL-6, IL-1 alpha, and dexamethasone can influence CRP synthesis. 
Balloon dilatation of pacemaker induced stenosis of the superior vena cava. A 53 year old woman with symptomatic pacemaker associated superior vena cava syndrome was treated successfully with balloon angioplasty. She was well six months after the procedure. 
Fine structure mapping of the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) gene region of the human X chromosome (Xq26). The Xq26-q27 region of the X chromosome is interesting, as an unusually large number of genes and anonymous RFLP probes have been mapped in this area. A number of studies have used classical linkage analysis in families to map this region. Here, we use mutant human T-lymphocyte clones known to be deleted for all or part of the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (hprt) gene, to order anonymous probes known to map to Xq26. Fifty-seven T-cell clones were studied, including 44 derived from in vivo mutation and 13 from in vitro irradiated T-lymphocyte cultures. Twenty anonymous probes (DXS10, DXS11, DXS19, DXS37, DXS42, DXS51, DXS53, DXS59, DXS79, DXS86, DXS92, DXS99, DXS100d, DXS102, DXS107, DXS144, DXS172, DXS174, DXS177, and DNF1) were tested for codeletion with the hprt gene by Southern blotting methods. Five of these probes (DXS10, DXS53, DXS79, DXS86 and DXS177) showed codeletion with hprt in some mutants. The mutants established the following unambiguous ordering of the probes relative to the hprt gene: DXS53-DXS79-5'hprt3'-DXS86-DXS10-DXS177 . The centromere appears to map proximal to DXS53. These mappings order several closely linked but previously unordered probes. In addition, these studies indicate that rather large deletions of the functionally haploid X chromosome can occur while still retaining T-cell viability. 
Laparoscopic treatment of painful perihepatic adhesions in Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome. This report illustrates a case of Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome associated with pelvic inflammatory disease in which the clinical symptom of right upper quadrant pain was severe and persistent despite appropriate antibiotic therapy. Because of the atypical course, an extensive work-up was performed to rule out other possible etiologies for the pain. In this context, a laparoscopy was performed and identified dense adhesions between the liver and the anterior abdominal wall. These adhesions were safely and successfully lysed using a KTP/532 laser through a second puncture site. After surgery the pain was completely resolved, with no further recurrence after 6 months of follow-up. 
Inflammatory pseudotumors of the spleen. Inflammatory pseudotumors are uncommon benign lesions that have been found in numerous organ systems. However, their appearance within the spleen is decidedly rare. Grossly, pseudotumors appear as well-circumscribed, encapsulated masses, while microscopic examination reveals a polymorphous inflammatory cell infiltrate occurring variably with granulomatous reaction, fibrosis, and cell necrosis. Because they often present either as unexplained, asymptomatic masses or with vague constitutional symptoms, splenic inflammatory pseudotumors can raise suspicion for a primary splenic neoplasm, such as lymphoma. Splenectomy is the treatment of choice. 
Prognostic significance of atrial fibrillation in advanced heart failure. A study of 390 patients. BACKGROUND. Atrial fibrillation is common in advanced heart failure, but its prognostic significance is controversial. METHODS AND RESULTS. We evaluated the relation of atrial rhythm to overall survival and sudden death in 390 consecutive advanced heart failure patients. Etiology of heart failure was coronary artery disease in 177 patients (45%) and nonischemic cardiomyopathy or valvular heart disease in 213 patients (55%). Mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 +/- 0.07. Seventy-five patients (19%) had paroxysmal (26 patients) or chronic (49 patients) atrial fibrillation. Compared with patients with sinus rhythm, patients with atrial fibrillation did not differ in etiology of heart failure, mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure on therapy, or embolic events but were more likely to be receiving warfarin and antiarrhythmic drugs and had a slightly higher left ventricular ejection fraction. After a mean follow-up of 236 +/- 303 days, 98 patients died: 56 (57%) died suddenly, and 36 (37%) died of progressive heart failure. Actuarial 1-year overall survival was 68%, and sudden death-free survival was 79%. Actuarial survival was significantly worse for atrial fibrillation than for sinus rhythm patients (52% versus 71%, p = 0.0013). Similarly, sudden death-free survival was significantly worse for atrial fibrillation than for sinus rhythm patients (69% versus 82%, p = 0.0013). By Cox proportional hazards model, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure on therapy, left ventricular ejection fraction, coronary artery disease, and atrial fibrillation were independent risk factors for total mortality and sudden death. For patients who had pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of less than 16 mm Hg on therapy, atrial fibrillation was associated with poorer 1-year survival (44% versus 83%, p = 0.00001); however, in the high pulmonary capillary wedge pressure group, atrial fibrillation did not confer an increased risk (58% versus 57%). CONCLUSIONS. Atrial fibrillation is a marker for increased risk of death, especially in heart failure patients who have lower filling pressures on vasodilator and diuretic therapy. Whether aggressive attempts to maintain sinus rhythm will reduce this risk is unknown. 
Effect of inhibition of Helicobacter pylori urease activity by acetohydroxamic acid on serum gastrin in duodenal ulcer subjects. The mechanism of the hypergastrinaemia associated with Helicobacter pylori infection is unknown. It may be an effect of the ammonia produced by the bacterium near the antral epithelial surface. We have examined the effect on serum gastrin of inhibiting H pylori urease activity with acetohydroxamic acid in six duodenal ulcer patients. On day 1 the fasted patients received placebo tablets at 8 am, a peptide meal at 10 am, and a 14C urea breath test at 11.30 am. The next day 750 mg acetohydroxamic acid was administered orally in place of the placebo. The median (range) 30 minute breath test value (dose/mmol CO2 X kg body wt X 100) was 152 (111-335) on day 1, but only 22 (14-95) the next day (p less than 0.03). Further studies performed in one subject confirmed that acetohydroxamic acid lowered the ammonium concentration and raised the urea concentration in gastric juice. The inhibition of urease activity and ammonia production did not result in a fall in the basal gastrin concentration or in the median integrated gastrin response to the peptide meal, which was 78 ng/1.h (range 21-222) on day 1 and 79 ng/1.h (33-207) the next day. Ten days after acetohydroxamic acid, the urea breath test values were similar to those before treatment. This study shows that the raised gastrin concentration in patients with H pylori infection is not directly related to the organism's urease activity. It also shows that temporary suppression of H pylori urease activity does not clear the infection. 
Intoxication after an acute dose of alcohol: an assessment of its association with alcohol consumption patterns by using twin data. We examined the hypothesis that genetically determined differences in sensitivity to alcohol explain some of the genetic variation in alcohol consumption pattern. Self-report data on average weekly alcohol consumption and self-ratings of intoxication after a standard dose of ethanol (0.75 g/kg body weight), used as an index of sensitivity, were obtained on 206 Australian twin pairs. Significant genetic covariance between weekly consumption and level of intoxication after alcohol intake was found in males, lower ratings of intoxication being associated with increased consumption. However, when direction of causation models were fitted to the male twin data, the hypothesis that decreased sensitivity was a cause of increased consumption was rejected. The major causal effect was that of weekly consumption on level of sensitivity. A similar, although nonsignificant, trend was observed in females. The strength of the association between self-report of average weekly consumption and level of intoxication after a standard dose of alcohol supports the validity of the former measure. 
Bone mineral density and anorexia nervosa in women. OBJECTIVE: A review of reports of reduced bone mineral density in women with anorexia nervosa was undertaken in order to profile specific risk factors, which could then be used as the basis for suggestions for future research and treatment. METHOD: Thirteen research studies and four case studies of reduced bone mineral density and fractures in women with anorexia nervosa were reviewed. The relationships between bone mineral density and amenorrhea, estrogen, calcium intake, physical activity, parathyroid hormone, alkaline phosphatase, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, cortisol, and growth hormone were examined in the reports of these studies and other reports of altered physiology during anorexia nervosa. RESULTS: The average spinal, radial, and femoral bone mineral density in anorexic women was significantly lower than it was in normal control subjects. Concurrent with the low intake of nutrients by individuals with anorexia nervosa, low body weight, early onset and long duration of amenorrhea, low calcium intake, reduced physical activity, and hypercortisolism appeared more likely to contribute to decreased bone mineral density than did other abnormal aspects of the disorder. CONCLUSIONS: Future research needs to address how such factors as amenorrhea and hypercortisolism affect bone mineral density in anorexia nervosa. Since no controlled trials of estrogen replacement or calcium supplementation in anorexia nervosa have been reported, the proper treatment for decreased bone mineral density is not known. However, the most obviously important intervention is to encourage medical stabilization and weight gain. 
Role of acid milieu in the gastroprotective and ulcer-healing activity of sucralfate. Sucralfate prevents the formation of acute gastric lesions induced by various ulcerogens and enhances the healing of chronic gastroduodenal ulcerations, but the mechanism of these effects has not been fully explained. This study was designed to determine the importance of intragastric pH in the sucralfate-induced gastroprotection against 100% ethanol, acidified aspirin, taurocholate, or stress, and in the healing of chronic gastroduodenal ulcerations induced by acetic acid. Sucralfate acidified to pH 2.0 showed significantly stronger protective activity against all four irritants, its protective potency against 100% ethanol being about eight times greater and the duration of the protection about four times longer than those obtained with sucralfate at its pH of 5.0. Pretreatment with indomethacin to suppress mucosal generation of prostaglandin or the removal of salivary glands to eliminate the endogenous source of epidermal growth factor failed to affect sucralfate-induced gastroprotection. In contrast, the rate of healing of chronic gastric ulcerations was significantly delayed by indomethacin or sialoadenectomy; but sucralfate enhanced the healing, and a marked inhibition of gastric acid secretion by ranitidine did not eliminate this enhancement. We conclude that the protective activity of sucralfate depends on the presence of acid milieu in the stomach, but that the ulcer-healing effects of this drug occur even after a marked inhibition of gastric acid secretion. 
The aging process: major risk factor for disease and death. Aging is the accumulation of changes responsible for the sequential alterations that accompany advancing age and the associated progressive increases in the chance of disease and death. Average life expectancies at birth in the developed countries are now approaching plateau values as the aging changes associated with the environment and disease near irreducible levels. The inborn aging process is now the major risk factor for disease and death after around age 28 in the developed countries and limits average life expectancy at birth to approximately 85 years. Future significant increases in average life expectancy--a rough measure of the healthy, productive life-span, i.e., the functional life-span--in these countries will be achieved only by slowing the rate of production of aging changes by the aging process. Many theories have been advanced to account for the aging process. The free radical theory of aging is discussed briefly. The importance attached to increasing the functional life-span dictates that aging hypotheses be explored for practical means of achieving this goal while work continues toward a consensus on the cause(s) of the aging process. Efforts to further increase the functional life-span by conventional measures are now almost futile, whereas those directed toward slowing the aging process are just beginning. These new efforts show promise. 
The effect of food on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of fenoldopam in class III heart failure. Eighteen patients with New York Heart Association class III congestive heart failure were given single 100 mg oral doses of fenoldopam with food or fasting in a random-order single-blind crossover trial. Before and after each fenoldopam dose, thermodilution cardiac output, right atrial pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) were measured with a balloon-tipped pulmonary artery catheter, and heart rates and blood pressures were recorded with an automated sphygmomanometer. Compared with fasting, bioavailability of fenoldopam was decreased significantly when administered with food: mean peak plasma fenoldopam level decreased from 26.5 (+/- 4.1 SEM) ng/ml to 10.9 (+/- 1.7 SEM) ng/ml (p = 0.0004) and mean area under the concentration-time curve was decreased from 44.7 (+/- 5.8 SEM) ng.hr/ml to 26.8 (+/- 4.1 SEM) ng.hr/ml (p = 0.0001). Fenoldopam administration to fasting patients resulted in decreases in mean arterial pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and PCWP and significant increases in cardiac index without change in heart rate. The maximum changes in mean cardiac index, systemic vascular resistance, and PCWP were greatest 1 hour after oral administration and did not persist beyond 3 hours after administration. In fasting patients, changes in cardiac index were correlated with plasma fenoldopam levels, whereas changes in PCWP and mean arterial pressure did not correlate significantly with the observed fenoldopam level. 
Stage I seminoma of the testis. Adjuvant radiotherapy or surveillance? Lately the role of radiotherapy in stage I seminoma of the testis has been questioned by some authors who reported on a "surveillance" strategy for these patients. Since 1980, 124 patients with seminoma of the testis have been referred to this institution; 97 of 116 patients analysed presented with stage I disease and 10 of these had elevated levels of beta HCG. A total of 64 patients were given radiotherapy after orchiectomy and 33 entered a surveillance protocol. After a median follow-up of 48 months, 3 patients in the surveillance group relapsed after 5, 13 and 49 months and 2 of the irradiated patients did so after 25 and 33 months. Elevation of beta HCG was not significant because none of these patients showed progression. A low rate of progression and excellent survival are associated with standard treatment (orchiectomy and radiotherapy) and good results have been achieved with chemotherapy in cases of relapse. A surveillance policy is not recommended in stage I seminoma because of its slower growth compared with non-seminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCT), the absence of a specific tumour marker, the 10% risk of occult metastases and the 3-fold higher progression rate compared with irradiated patients. We suggest the use of a reduced dosage and radiation field. 
Effects of isradipine on peripheral hemodynamic reflex responses in mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. In a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of isradipine (5 mg twice daily), effects on peripheral hemodynamic reflex responses were studied in nine patients (mean age 48 years) at baseline and after six weeks of active treatment. Assessments included vital signs, resting blood flow in the calf and finger (using an electrocardiograph-triggered venous occlusion plethysmograph), reflex responses during isometric exercise and cold pressor resistance, and venous capacitance in the forearm and calf. Isradipine lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressure as well as mean arterial pressure in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension without reflex tachycardia or venoconstriction. All of the reflex responses studied were attenuated. It is concluded that vasodilatation of the peripheral circulation induced by isradipine contributes partially to the blood pressure-lowering effect. 
Combined curettage and excision: a treatment method for primary basal cell carcinoma. A retrospective study of 403 primary basal cell carcinomas treated with aggressive curettage followed immediately by excision revealed microscopic tumor present in the curettage margin in 64 (15.9%) of the patients and in the excisional margin in 12 (2.5%) after curettage and excision. In 92% (11 of 12) of patients with persistent tumor after the combined curettage and excision technique the tumors were of the aggressive growth (fibrosing, sclerosing, scirrhous, and morpheaform) variety of basal cell carcinoma. Both lateral and deep margins were involved with tumor. The short-term cure rate was 97.6% for the combined technique. Excluding aggressive growth BCCs, the use of curettage allows the surgeon to define tumor borders better before excision. This proves especially beneficial in tumors with clinically indistinct borders. 
Does plasma cholesterol concentration predict mortality from coronary heart disease in elderly people? 18 year follow up in Whitehall study. OBJECTIVE--To explore the extent to which the relation between plasma cholesterol concentration and risk of death from coronary heart disease in men persists into old age. DESIGN--18 year follow up of male Whitehall civil servants. Plasma cholesterol concentrations and other risk factors were determined at first examination in 1967-9 when they were aged 40-69. Death of men up to 31 January 1987 was recorded. SUBJECTS--18,296 male civil servants, 4155 of whom died during follow up. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cause and age of death. Cholesterol concentration in 1967-9 and number of years elapsed between testing and death. RESULTS--1676 men died of coronary heart disease. The mean cholesterol concentration in these men was 0.32 mmol/l higher than that in all other men (95% confidence interval 0.26 to 0.37 mmol/l). This difference in cholesterol concentrations fell 0.15 mmol/l with every 10 years' increase in age at screening. The risk of raised cholesterol concentration fell with age at death. Compared with other men cholesterol concentration in those who died of coronary heart disease was 0.44 mmol/l higher in those who died aged less than 60 and 0.26 mmol/l higher in those aged 60-79 (p = 0.03). For a given age at death the longer the gap between cholesterol measurement and death the more predictive the cholesterol concentration, both for coronary heart disease and all cause mortality (trend test p = 0.06 and 0.03 respectively). CONCLUSION--Reducing plasma cholesterol concentrations in middle age may influence the risk of death from coronary heart disease in old age. 
Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty: evaluation of postoperative complications, sequelae, and results. A study of 71 patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome was performed to evaluate the effectiveness, complications, and late sequelae of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. Postoperative immediate complications were of minor importance. In 96% of the patients, the snoring was improved; it was completely resolved in 48%. The postoperative apnea index remained pathologic in all patients who underwent postoperative polysomnography, although mild improvement was noted. Seventy-four percent of our patients felt a subjective postoperative improvement which was not always confirmed by the polysomnographic examination. A record of improvement was obtained in 64% of the operated patients. Our results establish the beneficial effect of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, which is the recommended surgical procedure for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. 
Controlled multicenter double-blind trial of nicardipine in the treatment of primary Raynaud phenomenon. French Cooperative Multicenter Group for Raynaud Phenomenon, Paris, France. A total of 69 patients with primary Raynaud phenomenon were included in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy of nicardipine, a new calcium channel blocker. The trial data were combined with a meteorological survey. Nicardipine significantly (p = 0.02) reduced the number of crises of Raynaud phenomenon but had no significant effect on the intensity of the crises. Mean overall improvement, assessed on a linear visual analog scale, was 21% (p = 0.018), but results for the cold-reactive hyperemia test were not significantly altered after nicardipine treatment. All side effects were mild, and their frequency only differed significantly (p less than 0.05) from that of placebo for edema and headache. 
Bacteremia during extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of renal calculi. An increasing incidence of bacterial endocarditis has been observed since the beginning of the last decade. An explanation for this fact is the expansion of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in diverse medical disciplines. In a clinical study performed on 49 consecutive patients undergoing extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy a 14.3% rate of bacteremia was detected during treatment. The bacterial spectrum consisted of gram-positive cocci, gram-negative cocci, Bacteroides capillosus and Proteus mirabilis. In principle, these results do not call for an antibiotic prophylaxis. Nevertheless, according to the recommendations of the American Heart Association and the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Herz- und Kreislaufforschung, patients with a cardiac risk predisposing to bacterial endocarditis must receive perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis. 
Long-term postoperative dysphagia in oral/pharyngeal surgery patients: subjects' perceptions vs. videofluoroscopic observations. Dysphagia commonly results from surgical resection of various structures within the oral, pharyngeal, and esophageal areas. The type and severity of swallowing dysfunction are based largely on the number and quantity of structures removed as well as the reconstructive procedure. Short term-recovery has been addressed in many studies. However, follow-up studies of long-term functional results and continuing swallowing problems following oral/pharyngeal surgery are unavailable. In this study, perception of swallowing dysfunction was compared with actual videofluoroscopic findings in subjects at least 1 year after oral/pharyngeal surgery. The comparative results of a questionnaire developed to evaluate patients' perception of continuing swallowing difficulty and an analysis of actual videofluoroscopic tapes indicated that the degree or type of dysphagia could not be determined from patients' subjective descriptions of the swallowing problem. 
Prolactin and growth hormone levels in premenopausal women with breast cancer and healthy women with a strong family history of breast cancer. Although both prolactin and growth hormone are believed to play roles in the development and growth of rodent mammary cancer, the role of these hormones in human breast cancer is uncertain. Under carefully specified conditions, serum levels of these hormones were determined by radioimmunoassay (RIA) and prolactin was determined by bioassay in 18 premenopausal women with breast cancer, 23 healthy women with a strong family history of breast cancer, and 39 healthy women with no significant family history of breast cancer. Parity was associated strongly with decreased prolactin levels, and increasing age was associated strongly with decreased growth hormone levels. After controlling for these variables, no differences in prolactin or growth hormone levels were found among the three groups of women. These data do not support roles for these RIA-measured hormones or bioassay-measured prolactin in premenopausal or familial breast cancer in omnivorous white women. 
Digital gangrene in small cell lung cancer: response to aspirin treatment. A patient who had small cell lung cancer complicated by symmetrical peripheral gangrene, secondary to spontaneous platelet aggregation, improved dramatically after starting aspirin treatment. 
Diagnostic classification of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated vasculitides. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) are in the circulation of patients with a variety of clinically and pathologically distinctive forms of necrotizing vasculitis. Some patients have classic manifestations of well-recognized clinicopathologic syndromes, such as Wegener's granulomatosis, microscopic polyarteritis nodosa, and Churg-Strauss syndrome, but many patients are difficult to assign to a diagnostic category. The Ad Hoc Nomenclature Committee of The Third International Workshop on ANCA is attempting to identify a working classification system for ANCA-associated vasculitides. This system takes into account the many shared clinical and pathologic features, and relies on prerequisite positive and negative findings for diagnostic categorization. 
Cytokine-induced enhancement of ICAM-1 expression results in increased vulnerability of tumor cells to monocyte-mediated lysis. Pretreatment of the human melanoma cell line, A375, and the human colon carcinoma cell line, HT-29, with certain cytokines was found to increase the vulnerability of these cells to monocyte-mediated killing. This activity was found to correlate with increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) on the tumor cells and was blocked by anti-ICAM-1 antibodies. Both IFN-gamma and TNF induced large increases in the ICAM-1 expression on both cell lines and increased the susceptibility of the tumor cells to monocyte-mediated killing. IFN-alpha and IL-1 beta, however, induced only small increases in ICAM-1 expression and enhanced the lysis of the A375 cells but not the HT-29 cells by monocytes. These differences may be the result of a higher basal expression of ICAM-1 found on the A375 cells when compared with the HT-29 cells. These data indicate that regulation of ICAM-1 expression on tumor cells can alter the vulnerability of these cells to lysis by monocytes. 
Oestrogen and androgen states in oligo-amenorrhoeic women with polycystic ovaries. Oestrogen and androgen states have been studied in relation to ovarian morphology defined by ultrasonography in 65 women with oligo-amenorrhoea. Of the 48 women with polycystic ovaries (PCO), 44 (92%) had a withdrawal bleed following progestogen challenge (indicating oestrogenization) compared with just three (18%) of the 17 with non-PCO (P less than 0.001). Median serum concentrations of oestradiol and oestrone were statistically significantly higher in the PCO group but the ranges overlapped widely. Of the four women with PCO but oestrogen deficiency, two were hirsute and had evidence of a severe form of the disorder. The other two were not hirsute and appeared to have hypothalamic dysfunction associated with weight loss overriding the disorder due to pre-existing PCO. Compared with the non-PCO group, the PCO subgroup without hirsutism (n = 31) had statistically significantly higher median values of LH, testosterone, androstenedione, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate concentrations, and free androgen index. Concentrations of androgen, but not LH, were significantly higher still in the PCO subgroup with hirsutism (n = 17). 
Expression of 5'-nucleotidase (CD73) related to other differentiation antigens in leukemias of B-cell lineage. Ecto-5'nucleotidase (5'NT; CD73) expression was studied with a monoclonal antibody (7G2) and a radiochemical assay and compared with the expression of other antigens in B-cell-lineage leukemias on cells from 100 leukemic patients and two cell lines. A B-cell origin was confirmed by the expression of CD19 and HLA-DR. Four stages of B-cell leukemias were defined: stage I (pro-B) as CD10-, cytoplasmic mu- (c mu-), surface Ig- (sIg-); stage II (cALL) as CD10+/c mu-/sIg-; stage III (pre-B) as CD10+ or -/c mu+/sIg-; and stage IV (B) as CD10-/c mu-/sIg+. A linear correlation was found between immunohistochemical and radiochemical determination of 5'NT (r = .86). 5'NT expression was low in T-cell leukemias and stage I, high in stages II and III, and low again in stage IV of B-cell leukemias. 5'NT expression was not related to c mu, CD20, CD21, CD22, CD34, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) expression, but was significantly related to CD10 and inversely related to kappa/lambda expression. However, the 5'NT activity in CD10+ leukemias (stages II and III) shows a very wide range. Within the group of CD10+ leukemias no differences were detected between 5'NT+ and 5'NT- cells in their expression of other B-cell antigens. We conclude that the place of 5'NT in leukemias corresponding to early stages of B-cell development has been characterized. 5'NT is expressed in CD10+ stages and decreases before the expression of sIgs. Future studies should make clear whether a high expression of this enzyme in CD10+ stages is a normal maturation phenomenon or a malignant phenomenon. 
Management of the short-bowel syndrome. The patient with short-bowel syndrome after massive small-intestinal resection represents one of the greatest clinical challenges a general surgeon must face. Maintaining optimal nutritional and metabolic support until maximum bowel adaptation can occur is the top priority of therapy. Currently, no operative procedure for adjunctive management of the short-bowel syndrome is sufficiently safe and effective to recommend its routine use. Long-term parenteral nutrition remains the cornerstone of successful management. 
Scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach versus hypertrophic gastritis: findings at endoscopic US. To differentiate scirrhous carcinoma from hypertrophic gastritis, 16 patients with scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach and seven patients with hypertrophic gastritis were examined with endoscopic ultrasonography (US) between August 1987 and October 1990. US images of the normal gastric walls of 16 patients with gastric ulcers served as controls. Characteristic features of scirrhous carcinoma included an irregular hypoechoic enlargement of the third (submucosa) and fourth (muscularis propria) layers. The mean thickness of the third and fourth layers was increased sixfold and threefold, respectively, compared with thickness in healthy subjects. In the patients with scirrhous carcinoma, the mucosal layer remained normal in appearance at US, and it was possible to distinguish the five-layer structure of the gastric wall. These findings were prospectively correlated with histopathologic findings in the resected specimens. In contrast, only the mucosal layer was thickened in cases of hypertrophic gastritis. Recognition of these patterns at US can aid in the differential diagnosis of scirrhous carcinoma and such benign diseases as hypertrophic gastritis with a thickened gastric wall. 
Intracranial extension of a naso-ethmoid schwannoma. A rare case of intracranial extension of a naso-ethmoid schwannoma is presented. Its subsequent removal with few sequelae confirmed the benign nature and good prognosis of the disease. 
Value of MR imaging in differentiating benign from malignant soft-tissue masses: study of 95 lesions. MR imaging has largely replaced CT as the technique of choice for preoperative staging of patients with soft-tissue masses. Whether MR imaging can be used to differentiate benign from malignant masses is controversial. Our experience suggests that MR imaging often can characterize soft-tissue masses accurately. To evaluate this question further, we studied 95 consecutive lesions (50 benign and 45 malignant). Consecutive cases were selected to simulate our clinical practice. Surgical proof was available for all masses except hematomas, for which clinical follow-up confirmed the diagnosis. MR images were interpreted twice by three radiologists. The first review was accomplished without any clinical history and the second review with clinical history. Reviewers were asked to classify the lesion as benign or malignant on the basis of their clinical knowledge and analysis of MR image features (size, lesion margin, signal homogeneity, and neurovascular or bone involvement). Although interpretation varied somewhat because of the experience of the reviewers, the specificity and accuracy of diagnosis averaged 90% for both benign and malignant lesions. Negative predictive value for malignancy averaged 94% among the three reviewers. MR imaging is the technique of choice for identification and characterization of soft-tissue masses. The nature of the lesion (benign vs malignant) can be determined in the majority of cases. 
Exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia in association with a myocardial bridge. Sustained ventricular tachycardia induced by exercise is uncommon. This is a report of a patient who has a positive exercise test at a high level of exercise. The electrocardiogram has classic ischemic ST depressions. Following the appearance of these ST depressions, the patient developed ventricular tachycardia at a rapid rate. Workup that included an echocardiogram and cardiac catheterization revealed myocardial bridging of the left anterior descending artery as the only structural abnormality. Electrophysiologic studies revealed the patient to have ventricular tachycardia only with isoproterenol (Isuprel) infusion. 
Resolution of chronic pelvic pain after laparoscopic lysis of adhesions. Thirty women undergoing laparoscopic lysis of adhesions for the treatment of chronic pelvic pain were prospectively evaluated for the presence of a chronic pain syndrome. At follow-up, of those with chronic pain syndrome (10), four (40%) reported continued improvement or resolution of pain during daily activities of dyspareunia, whereas of those without chronic pain syndrome (20), 15 (75%) were better (p = 0.06). When these two complaints are evaluated individually, both pain during daily activities (p less than 0.05) and dyspareunia (p less than 0.05) are more likely to improve after lysis of adhesions in women without chronic pain syndrome. Prognosis was not related to the number of previous operations, adhesion score, or other physical parameters. Laparoscopic lysis of adhesions is generally worthwhile in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain, although the presence of psychosocial compromise warrants preoperative evaluation and concomitant treatment. 
Twin pregnancy: the impact of the Higgins Nutrition Intervention Program on maternal and neonatal outcomes. Perinatal outcomes were compared between 354 twins treated with the Higgins Nutrition Intervention Program and 686 untreated twins. After differing distributions of key confounding variables were adjusted for, the twins in the intervention group weighed an average of 80 g more (P less than 0.06) than the nonintervention twins; their low-birth-weight rate was 25% lower (P less than 0.05) and their very-low-birth-weight rate was almost 50% lower (P less than 0.05). Although the rate of preterm delivery was 30% lower in the intervention group (P less than 0.05), the rates of intrauterine growth retardation were similar in the two groups. Fetal mortality was slightly higher (14 vs 12 per 1000, NS), but early neonatal mortality was fivefold lower (3 vs 19 per 1000, P less than 0.06) in the intervention group. Maternal morbidity was significantly lower (P less than 0.05) in the intervention group. There was a trend towards lower infant morbidity in the intervention group. These results suggest that nutritional intervention can significantly improve twin-pregnancy outcome. 
Sugar-induced hypertension in Sprague-Dawley rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed either conventional rat chow, or a diet in which vegetable starch was replaced with either glucose or sucrose for two weeks. At the end of this period, measurements were made of weight, blood pressure, and plasma glucose, insulin, and triglyceride concentrations. The average weight gain over the dietary period was approximately 75 g, and did not vary between the three groups. Mean (+/- SEM) blood pressure remained stable in the rats fed conventional chow (124 +/- 2 to 127 +/- 3 mm Hg), but increased significantly in rats fed the glucose-enriched diet (122 +/- 1 to 134 +/- 2 mm Hg, P less than .02, compared to chow-fed rats). The increase in blood pressure was even greater in rats fed the sucrose-enriched diet (122 +/- 2 to 144 +/- 2), and was significantly greater (P less than .005) than in rats fed either conventional chow or the glucose-enriched diet. Plasma glucose concentrations did not change in any of the groups, but plasma insulin concentration approximately doubled in rats fed either the glucose-enriched or sucrose-enriched diets. Finally, plasma triglyceride concentrations also were significantly higher (P less than .002) in both glucose-fed and sucrose-fed rats than in the control group. However, the increase was greatest in the sucrose-fed rats, and was significantly higher than in rats fed the glucose-enriched diet (P less than .002). 
Intracanalicular acoustic neurinomas. The cases of 16 patients with acoustic neurinomas confined to the intracanalicular area are presented. These represent 2.7% of the 600 patients with acoustic neurinomas consecutively operated upon at the Neurosurgical Clinic at Nordstadt Hospital during the last 8 years. The comparatively earlier onset of vestibular symptoms and signs was characteristic of this group and precipitated diagnosis. The diagnostic reliability of magnetic resonance imaging was at least equivalent to that of air computed tomographic cisternography. Complete tumor removal was accomplished via the suboccipital approach in all patients, with 100% preservation of facial nerve and facial function; the cochlear nerve was preserved anatomically in 100% of the patients and functionally in 57%. No recurrence has occurred during follow-up periods of up to 8 years in all 16 patients. A broad spectrum of the current literature is considered, and purely intracanalicular acoustic neurinomas are discussed with regard to clinical characteristics, diagnostic steps-including neuroradiological and neurophysiological approaches-and surgical treatment and results. 
Identification of a monocyte receptor on herpesvirus-infected endothelial cells. The adhesion of circulating blood cells to vascular endothelium may be an initial step in atherosclerosis, inflammation, and wound healing. One mechanism for promoting cell-cell adhesion involves the expression of adhesion molecules on the surface of the target cell. Herpes simplex virus infection of endothelium induces arterial injury and has been implicated in the development of human atherosclerosis. We now demonstrate that HSV-infected endothelial cells express the adhesion molecule GMP140 and that this requires cell surface expression of HSV glycoprotein C and local thrombin generation. Monocyte adhesion to HSV-infected endothelial cells was completely inhibited by anti-GMP140 antibodies but not by antibodies to other adhesion molecules such as VCAM and ELAM-1. The induction of GMP140 expression on HSV-infected endothelium may be an important pathophysiological mechanism in virus-induced cell injury and inflammation. 
Global T wave inversion. Because global T wave inversion has not been specifically characterized, 100 electrocardiograms (ECGs) with this pattern (frontal plane T vector -100 degrees to -170 degrees with precordial T inversion) were prospectively collected from approximately 30,000 consecutively interpreted ECGs and analyzed blindly. There was a striking female predominance (82 women vs. 18 men; p less than 0.0005) despite an essentially equal number of female and male hospital admissions. There was a single statistically significant ECG correlate: a more vertical QRS axis in women (+14.1 degrees +/- 45.3 degrees vs. -5.6 degrees +/- 31.3 degrees; p = 0.034). The T waves were basically symmetric (68%), the influence of this factor usually altering the characteristically asymmetric T wave inversions of right bundle branch block (4 of 5) and left ventricular hypertrophy (21 of 36). Asymmetry was mainly associated with digoxin therapy (21 of 32 patients taking digoxin; p less than or equal to 0.0005) and a corrected QT (QTc) interval (0.433 +/- 0.095) shorter than with symmetric T wave inversions (0.507 +/- 0.074; p less than or equal to 0.0005) though not reaching the degree of shortening expected for digitalization. Twenty-eight patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction and 23 for a central nervous system disorder accounted for the majority of patients with symmetric T wave inversion. Fifteen of 18 patients who had coronary angiography had some degree of coronary artery disease: 3 had angiographically normal coronary arteries. 
An unusual problem during surgical removal of a broken guidewire. At operation, it proved impossible using traction alone to remove an angioplasty guidewire that was lodged in an intermediate artery. The problem was solved by passing a Teflon catheter over the wire, thus protecting the left main coronary artery while freeing the entrapped distal end of the guidewire. 
Physiologic and anatomic assessment of patients with rectocele. Clinical, physiologic, and anatomic assessments were carried out in 22 female patients with symptomatic rectocele (Group A), 15 patients with asymptomatic rectocele (Group B), and 14 subjects having no rectocele (Group C). Resting and pressure, rectal pressure, rectal compliance, anorectal inhibitory reflex, and rectal sensation did not differ among the groups. Proctography revealed that the lengths of the rectocele during attempted defecation in groups A (1.6 [1.0-3.5] cm) (median and range) and B (1.6 [1.0-3.0] cm) were significantly greater than that in Group C (0.4 [0.1-0.9] cm) (P less than 0.001 in both groups). Median pelvic floor descent at rest in Groups A (4.3 [1.6-7.5] cm) (median and range) and B (4.3 [1.3-6.9] cm) were significantly greater than that in Group C (2.5 [1.2-5.0] cm) (P less than 0.001 and P less than 0.02, respectively). These results indicate that rectocele is not associated with any physiologic change apart from a significant increase of pelvic floor descent. 
Intraperitoneal hemorrhage from hepatocellular carcinoma: emergency chemoembolization or embolization. From 1982 to 1990, 38 patients with intraperitoneal hemorrhage from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) underwent treatment with emergency embolization with or without anticancer drug and iodized oil. Before emergency embolization, 24 patients had a serum total bilirubin value of 3.0 mg/dL or less (group A) and 14 patients had hyperbilirubinemia, with a serum bilirubin level greater than 3.0 mg/dL (group B). Successful hemostasis was achieved in all patients. The mean length of survival was 165 days in group A and 13 days in group B. A significant correlation (P less than .00003) between serum bilirubin level and prognosis was obtained. While tumor thrombus in the portal vein made the prognosis poor, there was no significant difference in prognosis between groups with and without tumor thrombus (P = .145). Emergency embolization is an effective treatment in patients with intraperitoneal hemorrhage from HCC. The prognosis for patients with HCC depends on the serum bilirubin level before embolization. 
The value of plain radiography in establishing the diagnosis of gastric lesions. Appreciation for the diagnostic value of plain (noncontrast) radiography of the gastrointestinal tract appears to have diminished with the advent of more sophisticated imaging techniques. A case in which scrutiny of the gastric air pattern on plain abdominal films suggested the underlying presence of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome emphasizes the potential diagnostic value of plain radiography of the abdomen for gastric disorders. 
XY chromosome nondisjunction in man is associated with diminished recombination in the pseudoautosomal region. To assess the possible association between aberrant recombination and XY chromosome nondisjunction, we compared pseudoautosomal region recombination rates in male meiosis resulting in 47,XXY offspring with those resulting in 46,XY and 46,XX offspring. Forty-one paternally derived 47,XXYs and their parents were tested at six polymorphic loci spanning the pseudoautosomal region. We were able to detect crossing-over in only six of 39 cases informative for the telomeric DXYS14/DXYS20 locus. Subsequently, we used the data to generate a genetic linkage map of the pseudoautosomal region and found it to be significantly shorter than the normal male map of the region. From these analyses we conclude that most paternally derived 47,XXYs result from meiosis in which the X and Y chromosomes did not recombine. 
Tardive dyskinesia and chronic pain. Psychotropic drugs are frequently used to treat chronic pain. Tardive dyskinesia is a serious complication of such therapy, but is not mentioned in the pain literature. Two cases are reported and the implications discussed. 
Metastatic carcinoma to the male breast. A case of metastasis to the male breast from prostate carcinoma is reported. For proper treatment, it is important to differentiate primary from metastatic tumours. Prostate-specific antigen screening should be strongly considered in all breast masses seen in patients with known prostatic carcinoma. One cannot assume that breast enlargement in these patients is solely due to oestrogen-induced gynecomastia. 
Standardized data collection and coding in eye disease epidemiology: the Uveal Melanoma Data System. The Uveal Melanoma Data System of the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary is a computerized data-base designed for data management and analysis with a broad range of clinical research applications. The system was created in 1980 and has evolved to include standardized data collection forms for all aspects of uveal melanoma patient care such as initial examination, treatment, and follow-up, as well as precoded forms for computer entry, which facilitate quality control measures and data analysis. Excerpts from current versions of these forms are presented. The Uveal Melanoma Data System has been used for a variety of clinical epidemiologic investigations. Examples of its application, including descriptive studies, prognostic factor studies, and treatment evaluations, are discussed. The model has potential broad application for clinical ophthalmic research in other specialty areas. 
The role of interleukin-1 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in the paracrine stimulation of an in vivo-derived murine myeloid leukemia. WEHI-274.3 is a cell line isolated from an in vivo-derived, murine myelomonocytic leukemia. Although the survival and growth of WEHI-274.3 cells in vitro is absolutely dependent on the addition of exogenous growth factors such as interleukin-3 (IL-3), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), or colony-stimulating factor-1, when injected into syngeneic mice the cell line is tumorigenic. Sera from normal mice contain low levels of an activity that sustains survival of WEHI-274.3 but does not stimulate growth. In contrast, sera from mice bearing the WEHI-274.3 leukemia contained levels of CSF-1 and GM-CSF that stimulated the growth of WEHI-274.3 cells. Supernatants of cultures of WEHI-274.3 cells contained an activity that stimulated 3T3 fibroblasts to release an activity that stimulated the growth of the WEHI-274.3 cells. The 3T3-stimulatory activity released by the WEHI-274.3 cells was neutralized completely with an antiserum specific for murine IL-1 alpha, but not with antiserum specific for IL-1 beta. Moreover, WEHI-274.3 cells both in vitro and in vivo contained high levels of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNAs. The leukemia-stimulatory activity released by the 3T3 cells was neutralized by an antiserum specific for GM-CSF. We postulate that the IL-1 alpha constitutively released by the WEHI-274.3 cells stimulates the production of GM-CSF from host cells such as fibroblasts or endothelial cells. A similar paracrine mechanism of growth stimulation may occur in acute myeloid leukemias in humans. 
A model for breast cancer screening. A model for breast cancer screening has been developed. When the appropriate screening policy is specified, the model reproduces the detection rates and the incidence of interval cancers as observed in the recent screening projects in Utrecht and Nijmegen, the Netherlands. The model-predicted mortality rate reduction is in accordance with the results of the Kopparberg/Ostergotland randomized trial in Sweden. Key parameters of the model are the duration of the preclinical stages and the sensitivity of mammography. The average duration is approximately 2 years at age 40 and increases to approximately 5 years at age 70. The sensitivity is high (approximately 95%) for tumors larger than 1 cm. The model is used in the prospective evaluation of effects and costs of various screening policies. 
Activation of AP-1 by IL-1 and phorbol esters in T cells. Role of protein kinase A and protein phosphatases. We have examined the regulation of the AP-1 transcription complex in the IL-1-responsive murine T cell thymoma cell line EL-4 6.1 C10. Our results demonstrate that AP-1-mediated gene expression in T cells may be regulated by several signaling pathways and factors, including IL-1, protein kinase C, protein kinase A (PKA), and one or more serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatases. The activation of protein kinase C results in an increase in nuclear AP-1 DNA binding activity, as well as enhanced gene expression. IL-1 and agents that elevate intracellular cAMP levels do not, by themselves, induce AP-1 activation, but they synergize with phorbol esters. IL-1 and forskolin may enhance AP-1 function by different mechanisms, because forskolin enhanced gene expression without producing an increase in nuclear AP-1 DNA binding, whereas IL-1 increased AP-1-binding activity and gene expression. These observations, in conjunction with the lack of a demonstrable effect of IL-1 on cAMP production in EL-4 cells, are consistent with the view that IL-1 enhances AP-1 activation by a pathway that does not directly involve cAMP and PKA. However, the induction of AP-1 activity by IL-1 and phorbol esters is dependent upon the presence of PKA, as evidenced by the loss of AP-1 inducibility in cells transfected with a cDNA encoding protein kinase inhibitor, a specific inhibitor of PKA. The effect of protein kinase inhibitor on AP-1 activation in response to IL-1 and tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate was reversed in the presence of the serine/threonine protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. Thus, the level of AP-1 activity in T cells may be determined by the balance between the activities of several serine/threonine protein kinases and phosphatases. 
Acute hemiplegia associated with HIV infection. An acute hemiplegia secondary to a large cerebral infarct is described in a 16-month-old infant with congenitally-acquired human immunodeficiency virus infection. Serial imaging studies during the next year documented improvement in his hemiplegia and a static underlying human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome should be included in the differential diagnosis of children with acute hemiplegia. 
Benign thyroid adenoma causing recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy in a child. The standard teaching is that only malignant thyroid masses produce recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy. An unusual exception to this rule is reported. 
Atrial natriuretic peptide, aldosterone, and plasma renin activity in peripartum heart failure. Plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide and aldosterone and plasma renin activity were measured in patients with peripartum heart failure and in age matched healthy women post partum. Both groups had carried out traditional postpartum practices of salt consumption and body heating. Plasma concentrations (mean (SEM)) of atrial natriuretic peptide were significantly higher in the seven patients with peripartum heart failure (146.9 (24.3) pg/ml) than in the seven controls (4.4 (0.8) pg/ml). Both plasma aldosterone and plasma renin activity were suppressed in the patients with peripartum heart failure. After treatment for the heart failure plasma atrial natriuretic peptide fell considerably and there were associated increases in plasma aldosterone and plasma renin activity. The high plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide may have been a compensatory response to salt and water retention as well as to the heart failure. These high concentrations could also, in part, have suppressed the release of aldosterone and renin in an attempt to correct for volume overload. 
Amphetamine promotes recovery from sensory-motor integration deficit after thrombotic infarction of the primary somatosensory rat cortex. The present studies were undertaken to examine 1) whether d-amphetamine sulfate administered to rats well after thrombotic infarction of the vibrissal cortical barrel-field within the primary somatosensory cortex affected the rate and completeness of behavioral recovery and 2) whether a dose-response relation exists between d-amphetamine sulfate dose and recovery of function. In a learning task requiring sensory-motor integration, 41 rats were trained to perform a motor response in a T-maze consequent to the detection of a vibrissal deflection cue. Once training was complete, unilateral (n = 29) or sham (n = 12) infarction was produced by a noninvasive photochemical technique. After infarction, T-maze performance was assessed repeatedly in rats receiving 2 (n = 10) or 4 (n = 10) mg/kg d-amphetamine sulfate or saline (n = 9) 24 hours prior to testing on days 4, 6, 9, and 11. The sham-operated control rats received d-amphetamine sulfate (n = 7) or no injections (n = 5). All three infarcted groups displayed a reliable and sustained behavioral deficit in performance that was not present in the sham-operated control animals. Although the performance of each infarcted group improved over the testing sessions after the first injection, the amphetamine-treated groups improved at a faster rate than the saline-injected group. The results further demonstrated a dose-response effect, with the 4 mg/kg amphetamine group recovering to within preinfarction levels 6-8 days earlier than the 2 mg/kg amphetamine and saline-injected groups. Moreover, both amphetamine-treated groups recovered more completely than the saline-injected group. Quantification of the chronic infarct area revealed no differences among the amphetamine-treated and saline-injected groups. These data provide further evidence of the facilitatory effect of d-amphetamine sulfate on recovery from brain injury and extend this effect to the enhancement of recovery subsequent to thrombotic infarction of the primary somatosensory cortex. 
The receptor for ciliary neurotrophic factor. Although neurotrophic factors were originally isolated on the basis of their ability to support the survival of neurons, these molecules are now thought to influence many aspects of the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Identifying the receptors for these neurotrophic factors should aid in identifying the cells on which these factors act and in understanding their precise mechanisms of action. A "tagged-ligand panning" procedure was used to clone a receptor for ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). This receptor is expressed exclusively within the nervous system and skeletal muscle. The CNTF receptor has a structure unrelated to the receptors utilized by the nerve growth factor family of neurotrophic molecules, but instead is most homologous to the receptor for a cytokine, interleukin-6. This similarity suggestes that the CNTF receptor, like the interleukin-6 receptor, requires a second, signal-transducing component. In contrast to all known receptors, the CNTF receptor is anchored to cell membranes by a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol linkage. 
"Hemicrania continua": a clinical review. Hemicrania continua (HC) is a headache entity completely responsive to indomethacin. Since 1984, 18 cases have been described, 15 females and 3 males, i.e. a F:M ratio of 5.0. The finding of a female preponderance, like that in chronic paroxysmal hemicrania, is a new observation. HC is, in general, a unilateral headache in the sense that it sets in on one side and subsequently sticks to this side. In two cases, both sides might possibly be involved, when the pain was at its maximum. In another (somewhat dubious) case the headache was bilateral. The pain was continuous from the beginning in 8 of 18 cases (early stage ratio continuous: non-continuous = 0.8). Over time, the headache developed a continuous character in 16 of the 18 cases, producing a "continuous: non-continuous ratio" of 8:1. The intensity of pain generally was moderate and was not reported as excruciatingly severe by any patient. The autonomic involvement from a clinical point of view, was clearly less pronounced than that of other unilateral headaches, such as cluster headache and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. 
Thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas: report of seven cases. Seven patients with hyperthyroidism due to a TSH-secreting pituitary macroadenoma have been observed of a total of 800 patients with pituitary tumors over a period of 15 yr. Serum TSH levels varied between 1.1-36.3 mU/L. The serum alpha-subunit level was low in 1 case, while in 4 other cases the concentration was elevated and varied between 3.7-7.8 micrograms/L. Serum TSH beta levels were normal in the 4 cases in which it was determined. Serum GH or PRL levels were elevated in 5 cases. In 1 patient the cosecretion of TSH, GH, and PRL was confirmed by immunocytochemical examination. Serum TSH and alpha-subunit responses to TRH, GnRH, CRF, GRF, dexamethasone, methimazole, T3, and bromocriptine administration were variable when studied. Serum TSH and alpha-subunit circadian rhythms were absent in 1 case and inverted in another. A serum alpha-subunit pulsatility without TSH pulses was observed in 1 patient. Five patients underwent transsphenoidal adenomectomy. Three of 4 patients operated on in our center were cured, but a recurrence of the adenoma was found in 1 of them after 5 yr. The fifth patient was not cured. Treatment with octreotide in 3 patients resulted in normalization of serum TSH, GH, and thyroid hormones levels. Cosecretion of PRL in 1 case and alpha-subunit in 2 cases was also inhibited. Partial tachyphylaxis occurred in 1 patient. In summary, heterogeneity in clinical presentation, hormonal expression, and therapeutic response appears to characterize these TSH-secreting adenomas. 
Correlation of nuclear morphometry and DNA ploidy in rectal cancer. Several investigators have used morphometric measurements to determine differences in the nuclear size and shape of normal and neoplastic colorectal tissue. Changes in nuclear morphometric parameters have also been shown to correlate with prognosis in a variety of noncolorectal cancers. The association of nuclear morphometry with prognostic indicators in rectal cancer has not been well studied. Measurements of the nuclear area, perimeter, longest cord, and circularity factor from 39 primary rectal adenocarcinomas were compared with DNA content, degree of tumor differentiation, Dukes' class, and patient survival. Nuclear circularity was found to correlate with DNA ploidy. Nondiploid tumors with a DNA index greater than 1.3 had significantly more circular nuclei than tumors with diploid or near-diploid DNA content. There was no correlation between nuclear morphometry and Dukes' class or patient survival. Significant increases in DNA content of rectal cancers appear to be reflected by measurable changes in nuclear shape. Nuclear morphometric measurements may provide useful information in the study of the progression of neoplastic changes in colorectal cancer. 
Lymphocytic gastritis in nonulcer dyspepsia. The prevalence of lymphocytic gastritis, a specific form of chronic gastritis characterized by infiltration of gastric superficial epithelium with T lymphocytes, has been established in nonulcer dyspepsia. Among a population sample of 586 patients at risk for gastric carcinoma, 0.83% of patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and 1.63% of patients with chronic active gastritis showed lymphocytic gastritis. Among routine gastric biopsies from 5130 patients, only five cases met histological and immunohistochemical criteria of lymphocytic gastritis. 
Tinnitus: the hidden epidemic. A patient's perspective. The author describes his personal experience with tinnitus as well as various medical practitioners. He also discusses possible avenues for tinnitus research and suggests educational efforts that otolaryngology organizations might initiate. 
Acute regional cerebral blood flow changes caused by severe head injuries. To evaluate the changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) that occur immediately after head injury and the effects of different posttraumatic lesions on CBF, 61 CBF studies were obtained using the xenon-computerized tomography method in 32 severely head-injured adults (Glasgow Coma Scale score (GCS) less than or equal to 7). The measurements were made within 7 days after injury, 43% in the first 24 hours. During the 1st day, patients with an initial GCS score of 3 or 4 and no surgical mass had significantly lower flows than did those with a higher GCS score or mass lesions (p less than 0.05): in the first 1 to 4 hours, those without surgical mass lesions had a mean CBF of 27 cc/100 gm/min, which rose to 44 cc/100 gm/min by 24 hours. Patients without surgical mass lesions who died tended to have a lower global CBF than did those with better outcomes. Mass lesions were associated with a high global CBF and bihemispheric contusions with the lowest flows. By 24 hours after injury, global blood flow increased in groups that originally had low flows and decreased in those with very high initial flows, such that by 36 to 48 hours, most patients had CBF values between 32 and 55 cc/100 gm/min. Lobar, basal ganglion, and brain-stem blood flow values frequently differed by 25% or more from global averages. Brain-stem CBF varied the most but did not correlate with clinical signs of brain-stem dysfunction. Double studies were performed at two different pCO2 values in 10 patients with various posttraumatic lesions, and the CO2 vasoresponsivity was calculated. Abnormal CO2 vasoresponsivity was found with acute subdural hematomas and defuse cerebral swelling but not with epidural hematomas. In patients without surgical mass lesions, the findings suggest that CBF in the first few hours after injury is often low, followed by a hyperemic phase that peaks at 24 hours. Global CBF values vary widely depending on the type of traumatic brain injury, and brain-stem flow is often not accurately reflected by global CBF values. These findings underscore the need to define regional CBF abnormalities in victims of severe head injury if treatment is intended to prevent regional ischemia. 
Observer variability of Osler's maneuver in detection of pseudohypertension. Pseudohypertension in the elderly occurs when blood pressure is overestimated because of inelastic, sclerotic arteries. Osler's maneuver (OM), the palpability of a pulseless artery, is recommended as a non-invasive test to detect pseudohypertension, despite limited data concerning its reproducibility. We assessed the maximum achievable inter-and intra-observer agreement of OM among 6 examiners: cardiologists, geriatricians and general internists. Each examiner performed OM twice on 65 elderly hypertensive men attending the general medicine and geriatric clinics. The inter-observer agreement for brachial and radial examinations was 79 and 70%, while intra-observer agreement was 82 and 75%, respectively. After adjusting for chance agreement the kappa values for inter-observer agreement for brachial and radial arteries were 0.38 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.21-0.55) and 0.37 (0.28-0.46), respectively. Similarly, the kappa values for intra-observer agreement were 0.45 (95% CI: 0.35-0.55) and 0.49 (0.39-0.59). Kappa values never exceeded 0.6 in any time period, suggesting no training effect. OM cannot be recommended as a screening test for pseudohypertension given this low inter- and intra-observer agreement. 
Future applications of electronic thermography. The dental literature does not yet indicate the full range of facial thermographic findings in health and disease. Thermography is not useful in assessing some common dental problems, such as periapical granuloma. Promising reports, however, support its use in the diagnosis of neuralgias and atypical odontalgia, TMJ, nerve damage and repair after oral surgery, and in evaluating local dental anesthesia. Unfortunately, few if any of these studies were properly designed or conducted, limiting current attempts to define the value of thermography in dentistry. Until this situation resolves, ET of the face, for use in dentistry, can only be considered an investigational procedure. More research will clarify the precise contribution of thermography to dental problems. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty involving internal mammary artery grafts. With the increasing use of the internal mammary artery as the conduit of choice in coronary bypass surgery, it is anticipated that an expanding patient population will have stenosis, usually at the site of internal mammary-to-coronary artery anastomosis. In our series 31 patients underwent dilatation at either the site of anastomosis (24), the native coronary artery beyond the anastomosis (4), or both (3) with no mortality, myocardial infarction, or need for emergency coronary artery bypass surgery. Angiographic and clinical success was achieved in 28 patients (90%). There were two internal mammary artery dissections with both patients requiring elective coronary bypass surgery. Of the patients in whom dilatation was successful, 22 (79%) have been followed for longer than 6 months and 19 (86%) have had sustained functional improvement at a mean of 35 months after angioplasty. One patient is to undergo repeat coronary bypass surgery. No patient has had a myocardial infarction or died during follow-up. Although percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the internal mammary artery has inherent difficulties because of the anatomic characteristics of the vessel, it can be performed with a high degree of primary success and a low incidence of complications and can provide long-term clinical improvement. 
Hemifacial spasm. Occurrence in multiple sclerosis. We present six patients with hemifacial spasm and multiple sclerosis. To our knowledge, this association has not been described previously in the North American literature. Magnetic resonance imaging was obtained in all the patients and plaques consistent with multiple sclerosis were identified. In two patients the plaques were seen in the area of the facial nucleus on the involved side. We suggest that hemifacial spasm can be a manifestation of multiple sclerosis. These cases illustrate the utility of magnetic resonance imaging in the investigation of hemifacial spasm. Our findings also support a central (nuclear) origin in multiple sclerosis associated with hemifacial spasm. 
Acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage detected by selective scintigraphic angiography. Intra-arterial 99mTc colloid scintigraphy may have greater sensitivity than either standard intravenous scintigraphy or selective arteriography in detecting gastrointestinal bleeding. Ten millicuries of 99mTc colloid were administered directly into the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries (SMA and IMA) of patients who had undergone selective arterial catheterization for the evaluation of gastrointestinal bleeding. In one patient, 99mTc-albumin colloid was administered directly into the IMA and identified diverticular bleeding. The bleeding had been occult to prior contrast arteriography and refractory to selective intra-arterial Pitressin therapy. In a second patient who had undergone three negative provocative angiograms, selective SMA injection of 99mTc-sulfur colloid identified occult mesenteric varices secondary to portal hypertension. Selective intra-arterial scintigraphy should be valuable in detecting intestinal bleeding occult to conventional studies. This will help in directing further therapy and diagnostic evaluation. 
Reconstruction of the medial half of the lower eyelid using a "switch" split-lid procedure. Reconstruction of the medial half of the lower eyelid has one major disadvantage: It produces a scar at right angles to the eyelid rim. In contrast, use of a "switch" split-lid procedure avoids this inconvenience. The lateral half of the lower eyelid is split in two lamellae. The inner layer is transferred medially, and the resulting defect is closed with a buccal graft. The outer layer is drawn laterally to cover the raw surface of the mucosal pedicle and graft. The surplus of skin over the lateral canthal area is removed. This procedure, which so far has been used in three patients, promises to be a useful alternative for reconstruction of the medial half, but not more, of the lower eyelid. 
Test-retest reliability of isokinetic knee extension and flexion torque measurements in persons with spastic hemiparesis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the test-retest reliability of isokinetic torque measurements in the involved and uninvolved knee musculature of 20 subjects with spastic hemiparesis. An isokinetic dynamometer was used to measure maximal voluntary knee extension and flexion at 60 degrees and 120 degrees/s. Peak torque (PT) and average peak torque (APT) data were collected from five repetitions on two separate occasions. Average peak torque was defined as the mean of the PT values obtained during each of the five repetitions. Spasticity was measured in the involved knee musculature prior to isokinetic testing using the Ashworth Scale. Pearson Product-Moment Correlation Coefficients and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were high (greater than or equal to .90) for both knees for PT and APT at both angular velocities. No clinically meaningful differences were found between the Pearson correlation coefficients and the ICCs of the involved versus the uninvolved knee for any testing conditions. We concluded that isokinetic evaluation of torque, as measured by PT and APT in subjects with spastic hemiparesis, can yield reliable results in both extremities. 
Effect of vasoconstriction on longitudinal distribution of pulmonary vascular pressure and volume. We used an improved version of the low-viscosity bolus method to evaluate longitudinal (arterial-to-venous) differences in the sensitivity of the dog lung lobe vasculature to selected vasoconstrictor stimuli, including hypoxia, and serotonin, histamine, and norepinephrine infusions. This method revealed a bimodal distribution of local vascular resistance vs. cumulative vascular volume under the zone 3 conditions studied. Our interpretation of the two modes of relatively high resistance is that they correspond to high resistance per unit volume segments of the arteries and veins upstream and downstream from the relatively low resistance per unit volume capillary bed. Thus an increase in the height of the upstream and downstream modes of the resistance distribution suggests constriction in small arteries and veins, respectively. Horizontal displacement of the modes along the cumulative volume axis suggests changes in the distribution of volume among the arteries, veins, and capillary bed. By use of these criteria, the results are consistent with the concept that each of the vasoconstrictor stimuli studied had a different longitudinal response pattern. Hypoxia constricted mainly small arteries, whereas serotonin constricted small and large arteries. Histamine constricted large and small veins, and norepinephrine constricted large and small veins and arteries. 
Successful balloon aortic valvuloplasty in a patient with mitral valve endocarditis. A critically-ill 73-year-old man was admitted with simultaneous mitral valve endocarditis and aortic stenosis. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed successfully and without complications and was followed by prompt clinical improvement. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty should be considered in patients with aortic stenosis and nonaortic valve endocarditis. 
Status of the valves in the superficial and deep venous system in chronic venous disease. The relationship between the functional status of the venous valves in the superficial and deep veins and ulceration was evaluated in 42 patients. Twenty-five patients had ulcers, 12 of these patients had a history of previous deep venous thrombosis and 13 of these patients denied such an event. Seventeen patients had normal ankle skin, 10 of these patients had a documented history of deep vein thrombosis and seven of these patients had varicose veins only. An ultrasonic duplex scanner was used to document the presence of reflux in all segments of the superficial and deep system. In the entire group of 25 limbs with ulceration, valvular incompetence was noted in 22 limbs at levels involving segments that communicated with the ulcer-bearing area. Of the 17 limbs with normal ankle skin, in only two instances was a single segment of posterior tibial vein in midcalf found to be incompetent. For those patients with normal ankle skin and a history of varicose veins, the deep veins below the common femoral vein level were always competent. 
Diagnostic tests for choreoacanthocytosis. Two patients with striatal atrophy and a clinical syndrome consistent with choreoacanthocytosis had normal dried blood smears but their red cells demonstrated an abnormal sensitivity to various conditions known to promote discocyte-echinocyte transformation. Dilution in normal saline, in vitro aging, and contact with glass caused a great proportion of these patients' red cells to develop multiple spiny or rounded projections. Under identical conditions, such shape changes did not occur in normal patients or in those with Huntington's disease. Scanning electron microscopy showed that the age-induced increase in acanthocytic-appearing cells could be reversed with chlorpromazine. These data suggest that the red cells from these patients with striatal degeneration are deficient in their ability to preserve normal shape in the face of echinocytic stress and that this observation has diagnostic and, possibly, pathophysiologic significance. 
Combined split anterior tibial-tendon transfer and intramuscular lengthening of the posterior tibial tendon. Results in patients who have a varus deformity of the foot due to spastic cerebral palsy. Twenty patients who had a varus deformity of the foot secondary to spastic cerebral palsy had twenty-two operations involving combined split anterior tibial-tendon transfer and intramuscular lengthening of the posterior tibial tendon, with and without concomitant lengthening of the Achilles tendon. Preoperatively, all patients had had a dynamic varus deformity of the hindfoot and adduction of the forefoot in both the stance phase and the swing phase of gait. At an average follow-up of 6.2 years (range, 2.3 to 8.8 years), there were fourteen excellent, four good, and four poor clinical results. Two patients who had a fixed varus deformity of the hindfoot and one patient who had a very weak anterior tibial muscle had a poor result. We concluded that the combined procedure is effective for correction of a flexible varus deformity of the foot in patients who have spastic cerebral palsy. 
Continuous ambulatory ECG monitoring in the perioperative period: relationship of preoperative status and outcome. We have used continuous ambulatory electrocardiography in the perioperative period to monitor 108 patients with known cardiovascular disease undergoing non-cardiac surgery. There was a high incidence of ischaemic ST segment changes and ventricular arrhythmias. For the group as a whole, anaesthesia and surgery were followed by increased ventricular ectopic activity, but did not worsen myocardial ischaemia. However, the mean duration of ischaemic ST segment changes was increased significantly in those patients with treated hypertension. Of the risk factors considered, preoperative ischaemia and peroperative systolic arterial pressure were significant correlates with postoperative myocardial ischaemia. 
Induction of nm23 gene expression in human colonic neoplasms and equal expression in colon tumors of high and low metastatic potential. Levels of expression of the murine nm23 gene inversely correlate with metastatic potential in several rodent tumor model systems. Expression of the human nm23 homologue also is lower in human breast cancers of high metastatic potential than in breast cancers of low metastatic potential. In the present study, we examined changes in nm23 expression during colon carcinogenesis as found in 18 matched pairs of normal and neoplastic human colon tissues. We found that a 0.8-kilo-base nm23 transcript was expressed in all samples of morphologically normal colon mucosa. In 16 of 18 colon neoplasms, nm23 expression was further increased in the neoplastic, compared with the morphologically normal, colon mucosa from the same individual. Expression of nm23 was elevated over normal mucosa in 3 of 3 polyps, in 2 of 3 nonmetastatic cancers, and in 11 of the 12 cancers that were metastatic at the initial presentation. The levels of nm23 expressed were similar in the 12 metastatic colon neoplasms and in the 6 colon neoplasms of lower clinical stage. In addition, nm23 expression was maintained in culture in each of 12 cell lines initiated from human colon neoplasms and did not differ between lines established from neoplasms of high or low metastatic capability. We concluded that nm23 was expressed in normal colon mucosa. Expression of nm23 increased during early stages of colon carcinogenesis and remained increased in metastatic colon cancer. Therefore, in the colon, tissue-specific events dissociate nm23 expression from loss of tumor metastatic competence. 
Expression and distribution of atrial natriuretic peptide in human hypertrophic ventricle of hypertensive hearts and hearts with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. To investigate the ventricular expression of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) in human hypertrophic hearts, we conducted an immunohistochemical study of 130 endomyocardial biopsy specimens obtained from the right side of the ventricular septum (RVB), left ventricular free wall (LVB), or both from a total of 80 patients: 44 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), 14 with apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (APH), 13 with hypertensive hearts (HHD), and nine without hypertrophy (controls). No patients had apparent congestive heart failure. ANP was not seen in ventricular myocytes in controls but was identified in biopsy specimens of hypertrophic hearts, and its distribution was characteristic in each hypertrophic group: 15 RVB (37%) and two LVB (7%) of the HCM group, one RVB (7%) and two LVB (18%) of the APH group, and zero RVB (0%) and five LVB (46%) of the HHD group. Clinical data (including echocardiographic, hemodynamic, and angiographic data) were not directly related to ventricular ANP expression in HCM, APH, or HHD with one exception. In HHD patients, LVB specimens with ANP showed greater ventricular wall thickness than LVB specimens without ANP. According to histological data, however, the ANP-present RVB specimens of HCM or ANP-present LVB specimens of HHD had greater myocyte size than did the ANP-absent specimens. In addition, in HCM patients, the ANP-present RVB specimens showed more severe fibrosis and myofiber disarray than did the ANP-absent specimens. We conclude that a failing state and hemodynamic overload are not likely to be indispensable for ANP expression in human hypertrophic ventricles and that ventricular ANP expression occurs as a response to disease-specific changes: hemodynamic overload in HHD and histological changes such as myocardial fiber disarray, hypertrophy of myocytes, and fibrosis in HCM, which may reflect the characteristic distribution of intraventricular ANP. 
Management of adipsia by a behavioural modification technique. Adipsia combined with diabetes insipidus after hypothalamic damage may produce major difficulties in clinical management. If there is an associated memory impairment it may be impossible to teach self-regulation of fluid balance, necessitating long-term hospital supervision. The successful use of a behaviour modification technique to achieve independent drinking and allow discharge from hospital into the community is described in a patient with adipsia, diabetes insipidus and memory impairment resulting from the removal of a craniopharyngioma. 
Perilymph fistulas: the House Ear Clinic experience. The diagnosis, evaluation, and surgical treatment of perilymph fistulas has recently been the focus of a great deal of attention in otology. Authors have focused on perilymph fistulas as the cause of hearing loss and vertigo in many diverse situations. Additionally, surgical repair has been suggested when there is little objective support for intervention. To address some of the problems inherent in the diagnosis and treatment of perilymph fistulas, records of patients operated on at the House Ear Clinic during the past 12 years were reviewed retrospectively. Eighty-six patients were surgically explored for fistulas during this period. Thirty-five (40.7%) fistulas were found, and 51 ears were patched whether fistulas were found or not. Of the 80 patients who were seen for follow-up, 35 (43.8%) were subjectively better, and 45 (56.2%) were the same. Although the number of fistulas found and the number of patients improved were similar, the composition of the two groups was different. On the basis of audiometric results, improvement in hearing occurred in only 18.7% of the patients. None of the demographic factors or diagnostic tests were predictive of either the presence of a fistula or the therapeutic outcome. Further work is required to facilitate the preoperative diagnosis of fistulas and to design appropriate surgical intervention. 
Management of childhood cholesteatoma. We report a retrospective study of 54 children with 57 involved ears who underwent surgery for cholesteatoma before their sixteenth birthdays. The majority of these underwent open cavity operations (modified radical mastoidectomy, radical mastoidectomy or atticotomy). The incidence of residual disease was only 6 per cent and overall 70 per cent of ears have been free of chronic discharge. The post-operative hearing thresholds were disappointingly low, though overall no worse than those recorded before surgery. The mean post-operative hearing level for the group was 39 dB and the mean air-bone gap was 29 dB. Open cavity surgery is the method of choice for childhood cholesteatoma, mainly because of the low incidence of residual disease. 
Cytologic manifestations of ballistic injury. The adherent residue from 60 projectiles in 38 consecutive gunshot wound deaths was analyzed by cytologic technique to determine whether a bullet, while passing through the body or intermediate target, retains tissue and other trace evidence. The projectiles, which were recovered from both the body and shooting area, contained microscopically recognizable cellular and inert material in all cases. Direct ballistic trauma could be documented in several tissue types, most notably in muscular tissue. Progressive damage to skeletal and cardiac muscle was seen in multiple preparations. This ranged from partial separation of the fascicles to cytoplasmic homogenization and nuclear rupture. Except in cases of severe ballistic trauma, skeletal and cardiac muscle could be distinguished on the preparations. In addition to neural tissue, projectiles traversing the central nervous system (CNS) contained elongated fragments of intact microvascular structures, sheets of cerebral covering cells, and connective tissue from the scalp. The vascular structures present in CNS preparations may clarify some of the clinical findings in victims of gunshot wounds and elucidate possible pathophysiologic mechanisms in craniocerebral projectile injuries. 
Laboratory differences in cervical cytology. This prospective study was designed to determine if there is a difference in reporting endocervical cells in Papanicolaou smears among laboratories used by an urban, academic family practice. A review of the literature found no studies comparing Papanicolaou smear results among laboratories with respect to the presence of endocervical cells. In this study, three laboratories evaluated a total of 140 Papanicolaou smears from women aged 16 to 83 (mean = 33.8) for endocervical cells. The presence of endocervical cells was reported for 88 smears (62.9%) ranging from 42/83 (50.6%) to 21/23 (91.3%) among laboratories. Results of an analysis of variance revealed a statistically significant difference in the frequency of reporting endocervical cells (p less than .001) among the laboratories. Analysis of covariance controlling for effects of several factors known to influence the outcome of Papanicolaou smears (age, days since last menstrual period, method used to obtain smear, and experience of clinician obtaining smear) failed to explain this difference. 
Syringomyelia secondary to congenital intraspinal lipoma. Preoperative evaluation using serial magnetic resonance imaging was performed on an infant with lumbosacral lipoma. Syrinx formation arising just above the lipoma was observed in conjunction with rapid growth of the lipoma. Definite shrinkage of syringomyelia was obtained after radical excision of the lipoma. The syrinx formation was possibly caused by compression from the extramedullary lipoma. 
Parent-child concordance in multiple sclerosis. It is now recognized that susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (MS) is determined in part by genetic factors. The gene loci influencing MS susceptibility are largely unidentified. In an attempt to better understand the mode of transmission, parent-child concordance for MS was studied in two large, population-based MS clinic populations. Among 75 parent-child pairs concordant for MS, we found 40 mother-daughter pairs, 13 mother-son pairs, 21 father-daughter pairs, and 1 father-son pair. Controlling for the known female preponderance in MS, the data show a paucity of father-son pairs. These data have implications for understanding the mechanisms of inheritance for MS susceptibility as well as for risk counseling in families of patients. 
Empiric therapy with amphotericin B in febrile granulocytopenic patients. The early diagnosis of invasive fungal infection in granulocytopenic patients remains unreliable. Granulocytopenic patients who are persistently or recurrently febrile despite therapy with appropriate antibacterial agents are at high risk for the development of such infection. Two randomized clinical trials demonstrated that the empiric administration of amphotericin B to persistently or recurrently febrile granulocytopenic patients decreased the frequency, morbidity, and mortality of invasive fungal infection; these effects were especially marked in profoundly granulocytopenic patients who were not receiving antifungal prophylaxis. Current studies continue to indicate that prompt empiric administration of amphotericin B to persistently or recurrently febrile granulocytopenic patients ensures earlier treatment of deep mycoses. The roles of newer antifungal triazole compounds and of liposomal and lipid complexes of amphotericin B in empiric antifungal therapy must be investigated further in thoughtfully designed, randomized clinical trials. 
Relation of early hemodynamic changes to final cardiac phenotype and survival after neural crest ablation in chick embryos. BACKGROUND. Microcinephotography was used to study a model of persistent truncus arteriosus created in chick embryos by ablation of premigratory neural crest destined for the third and fourth aortic arch arteries as well as the septum of the cardiac outflow tract. METHODS AND RESULTS. Twenty-five control embryos and 105 of 202 experimental embryos were filmed on day 3 of incubation and then reincubated. The remaining 97 experimental embryos were not filmed because of twisting of the embryos, but they were reincubated. There was no difference in either the survival rate (p greater than 0.23) from day 3 to day 11 of incubation or the incidence of persistent truncus arteriosus (p greater than 0.08) between the filmed and the nonfilmed embryos. Incomplete looping of the cardiac tube observed in experimental embryos during early cardiogenesis correlated with a right ventricular origin of the outflow vessels in the definitive heart. Hemodynamic measurements indicated that there was no difference in heart rate, ejection fraction, systolic and diastolic areas, stroke volume, and cardiac output between controls and the experimental group as a whole. However, embryos that did not survive to day 11 had decreased stroke volume (p less than 0.001) and cardiac output (p less than 0.001), whereas embryos that survived to day 11 with cardiac malformations had increased stroke volume and cardiac output in early embryogenesis. CONCLUSIONS. Increased stroke volume and cardiac output may be necessary factors for survival in embryos with cardiac dysmorphogenesis and probably are associated with dilation of the ventricular portion of the cardiac tube, which leads to malalignment of the outflow vessel or vessels. 
Serious bacterial infections in children. When can outpatient treatment be used? Several studies now support outpatient treatment of many serious bacterial infections in children, such as periorbital or buccal cellulitis, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, and abscess. However, an appropriate agent, that is, a third-generation cephalosporin with a long half-life, must be available and its effectiveness properly researched. In addition, children must be free of other illnesses and able to ingest fluids and maintain hydration, and their parents must be willing and able to cooperate with an outpatient treatment regimen. Family physicians can maintain the close patient and family contact needed to facilitate this form of therapy. 
Nocturnal hypoxemia as a determinant of vigilance impairment in sleep apnea syndrome. In sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), vigilance impairment is typically associated with highly disrupted sleep, but recently, nocturnal hypoxemia has also been identified as a second pathogenetic factor in patients with a high degree of desaturation. However, although sleep disruption has been demonstrated to play a role in both the propensity to fall asleep and the capacity to stay awake, the role of nocturnal hypoxemia has been implicated only in the latter. In the present study, both sleep disruption and nocturnal hypoxemia were assessed in 20 moderately to severely apneic patients. During the day, vigilance was assessed both by the multiple sleep latency test (MSLT), as a measure of the propensity to fall asleep, and by the four-choice reaction time test (FCRTT), as a measure of the capacity to stay awake in a performance task. Severity of nocturnal hypoxemia was found to predict performance on the MSLT, as well as on the FCRTT, but sleep disruption was found to predict performance only on the FCRTT. These results suggest that in moderately to severely affected SAS patients, nocturnal hypoxemia may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of vigilance impairment. 
Sucralfate versus antacids or H2-antagonists for stress ulcer prophylaxis: a meta-analysis on efficacy and pneumonia rate. OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: Histamine2 (H2)-receptor antagonists and antacids have been the basic drugs for the prevention of stress bleeding in ICU patients during the past decade. Recently, drugs without major influence on gastric pH have been investigated in stress bleeding prophylaxis. Therefore, a meta-analysis (Mantel-Haenszel test) was undertaken to determine the efficacy of sucralfate in the prevention of macroscopically visible stress bleeding, as well as the influence of sucralfate on the frequency of pulmonary infections. RESULTS: The efficacy of sucralfate was compared with H2-antagonists in nine studies and with antacids in eight studies. Sucralfate was significantly more effective than H2-antagonists (typical odds ratio 0.532, 95% confidence interval 0.303 to 0.933) and equally as effective as antacids (typical odds ratio 0.868, 95% confidence interval 0.452 to 1.667). The pneumonia rates of those patients who were administered sucralfate were compared with the rates of those patients who were given H2-antagonists in five studies and with those patients who were given antacids in four studies. Pneumonia was a significantly more frequent occurrence under prophylaxis with H2-antagonists (typical odds ratio 0.498, 95% confidence interval 0.316 to 0.783) as well as with antacids (typical odds ratio 0.402, 95% confidence interval 0.235 to 0.687). CONCLUSION: Sucralfate is an effective drug for the prevention of stress bleeding that minimizes the risk of nosocomial pneumonia in long-term ventilated ICU patients. 
Relationship of HBsAg subtypes with HBeAg/anti-HBe status and chronic liver disease. Part II: Evaluation of epidemiological factors and suspected risk factors of liver dysfunction. In this study, we examined a possibility that epidemiological factors or suspected risk factors of liver dysfunction could account for the different HBeAg/anti-HBe status or the different prevalence of liver dysfunction between the adr and adw carriers. A total of 428 HBsAg carriers were surveyed of their age, sex, racial background, socioeconomic status, place of residence, birthplace, alcohol consumption, smoking habit, and history of blood transfusion as epidemiological factors or suspected risk factors of liver dysfunction. Adjustment for those variables using multivariate analyses did not substantially affect the association of the HBsAg subtypes with either prevalence of liver dysfunction or HBeAg/anti-HBe status. HBsAg subtypes seem to directly affect HBeAg/anti-HBe status and consequently influence development of chronic liver disease. 
Antibiotic therapy of intra-abdominal sepsis in the elderly: experience with ticarcillin and clavulanic acid. Age is a major factor in determining the outcome for older patients with intra-abdominal sepsis. Poor outcome in these patients may be related to a number of physiologic and immunologic changes associated with aging. The treatment of intra-abdominal sepsis can itself pose special risks for the elderly. Standard regimens containing aminoglycosides have a substantial risk of nephrotoxicity, which is magnified in elderly patients. Alternatives to standard aminoglycoside-containing regimens, therefore, are desirable. Most intra-abdominal infections involve multiple pathogens, usually both aerobic and anaerobic. The polymicrobial nature of intra-abdominal sepsis mandates antimicrobial chemotherapy effective against a broad range of organisms. In the past several years, a host of new antibiotics have been introduced that used alone or in combination with other drugs has the potential of safely avoiding aminoglycosides in many patients with intra-abdominal sepsis. One such agent, ticarcillin with clavulanate potassium, is active against a wide spectrum of aerobic and anaerobic pathogens. In a prospective, randomized, open label trial, ticarcillin and clavulanate was compared with gentamicin and clindamycin. Although the sample size was too small to allow meaningful statistical comparisons of efficacy and safety, both regimens were effective and well tolerated. In general, prolonged administration of aminoglycosides is rarely indicated for the treatment of intra-abdominal sepsis in the elderly, although initial empiric use of aminoglycosides may sometimes be warranted. 
PTA and laser assisted PTA combined with simultaneous surgical revascularization. In this study we investigated the efficacy of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and laser percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (LPTA) as an adjunct to surgery in patients with peripheral vascular disease. We report 84 cases of the simultaneous association of direct arterial surgery and angioradiological procedures to treat 82 patients with arterial occlusive disease of the lower limbs. Sixty-five patients (79.2%) were affected by severe claudication and 14 (19.6%) presented with rest pain or gangrene. One patient (1.2%) had signs of acute ischemia. PTA or LPTA were utilized as an inflow procedure in 41 cases (48.8%), as an outflow procedure in 24 (28.6%) and in 19 cases (22.6%) to recanalize an arterial occlusion in the contralateral limb opposite to surgical interventions. Immediate postoperative patency was achieved in 79 cases (94.0%), while in 5 cases (6.0%) it was impossible to perform a satisfactory balloon dilatation. The complication rate was 16.6%: 10 perioperative thromboses, 1 plaque dissection, 1 peripheral embolus, 1 haemorrhage and 1 femoral nerve lesion. No perioperative mortality occurred in this group of patients. Long term patency, analyzed with the life-table method (mean follow-up: 28 months) was respectively 78.0%, 76.3% and 78.9% at 5 years. These data indicate that the combined revascularization technique should always be recommended in properly selected patients because it is less invasive, the surgical risk and operative time are reduced and associated with early and long term cumulative patency rates comparable to those of extensive surgery. 
Quantitative electroencephalography: a report on the present state of computerized EEG techniques. American Psychiatric Association Task Force on Quantitative Electrophysiological Assessment. The American Psychiatric Association established the Task Force on Quantitative Electrophysiological Assessment in May 1989 to consider several questions of interest to psychiatrists. From the inception of techniques for quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG), the possibility was raised that it would substantially assist in the diagnosis of brain disorders. However, controversy exists over the scientific basis for such approaches and the training necessary for interpretation of computerized records. The task force's charge was to report 1) the present state of scientific knowledge about qEEG, 2) the role of qEEG in clinical psychiatric practice at the present time, 3) the training necessary for the use of qEEG techniques, and 4) the possible future of the technique in the study of mental disorders. The task force concluded that qEEG is particularly useful for the detection of abnormalities in slow waves, which are a feature of delirium, dementia, intoxication, and other syndromes involving gross CNS dysfunction. The ability of qEEG to help in the diagnosis of other disorders, such as schizophrenia or depression, is not yet established. Clinical replications and sharing of normative and patient data bases are necessary for the advancement of this field. Proper use of this technique requires extensive training in a center experienced in its use. Standards for training and for using the technology in psychiatry are urgently needed. This report was approved by the Board of Trustees in December 1990. 
The p53 tumour suppressor gene. The cell cycle is composed of a series of steps which can be negatively or positively regulated by various factors. Chief among the negative regulators is the p53 protein. Alteration or inactivation of p53 by mutation, or by its interactions with oncogene products of DNA tumour viruses, can lead to cancer. These mutations seem to be the most common genetic change in human cancers. 
The impact of ulcerogenic drugs on surgery for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. To investigate the impact of ulcerogenic drugs on surgery for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease, we reviewed 150 surgical cases. Ulcerogenic drug use (steroids and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including aspirin) increased from 15% between 1972 and 1977 to 37% between 1983 and 1988. While there was no correlation between ulcerogenic drug use and hemorrhage, obstruction, or intractable pain, 16 (52%) of the 31 perforations and 26 (38%) of the 69 emergency operations were associated with use of ulcerogenic drugs. The overall mortality rate was 11%. Death was correlated with age greater than 65 years and emergency operation, but not with ulcerogenic drug use or other variables. Of 12 patients with histories of peptic ulcer disease who were treated with ulcerogenic drugs without concomitant antiulcer prophylaxis, 11 (92%) required emergency operation to treat perforation or massive hemorrhage. Standard antiulcer medications or misoprostol should be prescribed to elderly patients and to those with histories of ulcers who require ulcerogenic drug therapy. 
Mouse bronchiolar cell carcinogenesis. Histologic characterization and expression of Clara cell antigen in lesions induced by N-nitrosobis-(2-chloroethyl) ureas. Female Swiss mice (Cr:NIH(S)) developed bronchiolar cell hyperplasia, dysplasia, metaplasia, and various morphologic types of bronchiolar cell tumors after topical (skin) application of N-nitroso-methyl-bis-chloroethylurea (NMBCU) or N-nitroso-tris-chloroethylurea (NTCU). These compounds are the first found to induce systemically bronchiolar cell tumors in mice in high incidence. Twice a week, with a 3-day interval, a 25-microliter drop of 0.04 mol/l (molar) NMBCU or NTCU in acetone was applied to the shaved interscapular integument for a maximum of 35 to 40 weeks. The earliest lung neoplasms were seen in mice that died after 23 weeks of treatment and affected 11 of 19 with NMBCU and 14 of 19 with NTCU treatment. Tumor growth pattern was nodular or the neoplastic tissue was frequently disseminated throughout the parenchyma, starting from multicentric peribronchiolar foci. The most common tumor types were squamous cell carcinomas and adenosquamous carcinomas, followed by adenocarcinomas with or without secretory cells, and a single ciliated-cell tumor. Histochemical and immunohistochemical studies were carried out on paraffin-embedded lungs using the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase complex procedure and antisera against keratin, Clara cell antigen, surfactant apoprotein, neuron-specific enolase, bombesin, and chromogranin A. In several mice from both groups, hyperplasias and tumors were composed of cells expressing Clara cell antigen. No tumor cells were found expressing alveolar type II or neuroendocrine cell markers. It appeared that bronchiolar cells, in particular Clara cells, had migrated from terminal bronchioles or invaded bronchiolar walls to extend into the alveolar parenchyma. Squamous cell metaplasia with keratin expression was seen within airways or associated with glandular tumors, especially at the periphery. A unique cell type, with large eosinophilic globules and associated eosinophilic crystals, was seen lining airways or forming hyperplastic and neoplastic lesions. N-nitroso-methyl-bis-chloroethylurea- and NTCU-induced mouse bronchiolar cell alterations could be an interesting new model to study mechanisms of bronchiolar cell differentiation and tumor formation. 
Torticollis in children. Torticollis is a common clinical sign that is found in a variety of disorders. Childhood torticollis differs from the adult form in that congenital types are common and many frequently encountered disorders found in adults are unusual. Pediatric torticollis related to otolaryngologic conditions is reviewed, and three illustrative cases are presented. 
Cardiomyopathy of the aging human heart. Myocyte loss and reactive cellular hypertrophy. To determine the effects of aging on the human myocardium, 67 hearts were obtained from individuals who died from causes other than cardiovascular disease. The age interval examined was 17-90 years. Regression analysis demonstrated that the aging process was characterized by a loss of 38 million and 14 million myocyte nuclei/yr in the left and right ventricular myocardium, respectively. This loss in muscle mass was accompanied by a progressive increase in myocyte cell volume per nucleus in both ventricles. Left ventricular myocytes enlarged by 110 microns3/yr, whereas right ventricular myocytes increased by 118 microns3/yr, resulting in a preservation of ventricular wall thickness. However, the cellular hypertrophic response was unable to maintain normal cardiac mass. Left and right ventricular weights decreased by 0.70 and 0.21 g/yr, respectively. In conclusion, loss of cells and enlargement of the remaining myocytes may represent the structural basis for the reduced compensatory capacity of the aged heart and together may contribute to the development of myocardial dysfunction and failure in the elderly. 
Mandatory trial of labor after cesarean delivery: an alternative viewpoint Twelve women experienced major rupture of the uterus during a trial of labor after previous cesarean (low transverse cervical incision in 11, low vertical in one). Two women required hysterectomy and a third had serious postoperative complications. There were three perinatal deaths, and two infants suffered significant long-term neurologic impairment. Although vaginal birth after cesarean delivery is considered safe in most instances, these cases serve as a reminder that catastrophic events can occur. Potential complications have important implications for clinicians when counseling patients about the route of delivery and for the management of any trial of labor after cesarean delivery. 
High-speed memory scanning in Parkinson's disease: adverse effects of levodopa. High-speed memory scanning as assessed by the Sternberg paradigm was studied in 12 nondemented patients with fluctuating Parkinson's disease and 13 age-matched healthy controls. Patients were first assessed before taking their morning dose of levodopa ("off") and again after that dose had produced full clinical effect ("on") after that dose had produced full clinical effect ("on"). Although motor components of the measured choice reaction time were slower in patients when off than in control subjects, memory scanning speed was not different. After levodopa (on), patients' motor time normalized, but cognitive processing speed became significantly slower when compared with previous performance in the off condition and with controls. Contrary to previous concepts of bradyphrenia in patients with Parkinson's disease, these results indicate that dopaminergic stimulation can reduce cognitive processing speed. 
Preparedness of practicing pediatricians to manage emergencies. To determine pediatrician preparedness to manage emergencies, a nationally representative random sample of 1000 non-hospital-based pediatricians was surveyed about (1) types of emergencies encountered and methods of transport to an emergency facility, (2) availability and use of equipment and medications in the office, and (3) determinants of pediatrician confidence in managing emergencies. The proportion of pediatricians who had encountered specific emergencies ranged from 86% for meningitis to 22% for cardiopulmonary arrest. The majority transported acutely ill children to an emergency department by ambulance. Availability of individual pieces of equipment and medications in offices ranged from 97% for epinephrine 1:1000 to 11% for bone marrow needles for intraosseous access. Combination of equipment available to manage particular emergencies ranged from 61% for severe dehydration to 11% for cardiopulmonary arrest. The equipment available in a pediatrician's office was significantly related to the type of primary work setting. Pediatrician confidence in managing the initial stabilization of emergencies ranged from 58% for seizures to 25% for epiglottitis. Confidence was related significantly to year residency was completed, Advanced Cardiac or Advanced Pediatric Life Support training, work setting, and the availability of equipment in the office. Continuing education regarding initial office management of and equipment for common emergencies should improve the pediatrician's confidence and competence in this area. 
The bottom end. Handling of the perineal wound after abdominoperineal resection. There are a number of options for handling the perineal wound following abdominoperineal resection, including open packing or primary closure with suction drainage. Open packing has not been widely accepted, fearing that it may delay perineal wound healing. The purpose of this paper, therefore, was to retrospectively evaluate, the experience at Ferguson Hospital with abdominoperineal resection from 1977 through 1986. The study population consisted of 288 patients undergoing abdominoperineal resection for rectal adenocarcinoma. Forty-six patients had the perineal wound closed primarily and 242 had the perineal wound packed open. Ninety-four patients had the pelvic peritoneum left open and 194 underwent closure of the pelvic peritoneum. Overall operative mortality was 2.1 per cent, and there was no significant difference between primary closure and open packing of the perineal wound with respect to hospital stay, operating time, operative blood loss, perioperative mortality, incidence of postoperative bowel obstruction, incidence of postoperative complications, or average time for perineal wound healing. Therefore, it would appear that packing the perineal wound following abdominoperineal resection is a viable means of handling the bottom end. 
Safe and rapid palliation of dysphagia for carcinoma of the esophagus. Patients with carcinoma of the esophagus continue to present late when their tumors are inoperable. This makes palliation of their dysphagia the main therapeutic aim. The Nd-YAG laser has been used in our department to treat dysphagia resulting from cancer of the esophagus since 1986. Our rapid, one-stage cannulation technique using the Nd-YAG laser in both contact and noncontact modes was applied to 35 cases of carcinoma of the esophagus with the aim of achieving rapid and safe palliation of dysphagia. During the treatment we aimed not to coagulate the tumor and await sloughing, but to vaporize the tumor and ablate as much as possible in a single session. In this way there was less need for repeat sessions to create an adequate lumen. In a small number of patients (9) who had tight strictures with no visible lumen, a pre-laser dilation was required to allow visualization of the lumen and tumor vaporization. For nondilated patients (26) we achieved a 15-mm lumen in an average of 1.6 sessions, and in the dilated patients (9) this was achieved in one session in all patients. Functional improvement occurred in 28 patients (80%). There were four minor complications and no mortality associated with the procedure. 
Brainstem compression by basilar artery anomalies as visualized by MRI. The use of MRI in the diagnosis of vascular anomalies of the basilar artery is demonstrated in two cases. The first patient had a partially thrombosed giant aneurysm of the basilar artery; the second had an atypical course of the basilar artery. MRI is indicated whenever other imaging procedures do not provide a definite diagnosis or the use of contrast medium for conventional X-ray examination or computed tomography is contraindicated. 
Restenosis after coronary angioplasty: an overview. Despite substantial basic and clinical efforts to address the problem of restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention, effective preventive therapies have not yet been developed. Nevertheless, the accumulated information has provided much insight into the process of restenosis in addition to allowing standards to be developed for adequate clinical trials. The pathophysiology of restenosis increasingly appears to be distinct from that of primary atherosclerosis. Restenosis involves elastic recoil, incorporation of thrombus into the lesion and fibrocellular proliferation in varying degrees in different patients. Lack of an animal model that satisfactorily mimics restenosis is a major impediment to further understanding of the process. Clinical studies are hampered by difficulties in finding a single unifying definition of restenosis and by variable methods of reporting follow-up. Reporting of clinical outcomes of all patients in angiographic substudies would allow a more satisfactory interpretation of the results of clinical trials. Current noninvasive test results are not accurate enough to substitute for angiographic and clinical outcome data in intervention trials. In the majority of observational studies, only diabetes and unstable angina have emerged as consistently associated with restenosis; whereas most of the standard risk factors for atherosclerosis have a less consistent relation. Disappointingly, the new atherectomy and laser technologies have not affected restenosis rates. The one possible exception is coronary stenting, as a result of the larger luminal diameter achieved by the placement of the stent. In conclusion, although substantial continued effort is necessary to explore the basic aspects of cellular proliferation and mechanical alteration of atherosclerotic vessels, attention to the principles of clinical trials and observation are required to detect the impact of risk factors and interventions on the multifactorial problem of restenosis. Adequate sample sizes, collection of clinical and angiographic outcomes and factorial study designs hold promise for unraveling this important limitation of percutaneous intervention. 
Obstruction of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta: results of treatment with balloon angioplasty. Our experience in the treatment of stenoses of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta with balloon angioplasty in 27 patients is reported. Clinical findings were lower limb claudication (all patients), impotence (eight patients), and blue-toe syndrome (two patients). The underlying disease was atherosclerosis in 24 patients and nonspecific aortoarteritis in three patients. Dilatation was successful in all patients. Embolic occlusions of the left common iliac artery (one patient) and left superficial femoral artery (one patient) were the only major complications. Claudication in the affected limb continued in the first patient; the second died when diagnostic angiography, performed 3 months after angioplasty, caused a severe atheroembolus. Of the other 25 patients, nine of the 10 followed up for 13-48 months and all seven followed up for 3-8 months were free of symptoms. Six of eight patients with sexual dysfunction had normal function after angioplasty. Seven patients still awaited follow-up and one was lost to follow-up. Our experience suggests that balloon angioplasty is an effective treatment of stenoses of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta. 
A new look at postoperative instructions following cataract extraction. We sought to determine whether, given the decreasing rate of complications associated with cataract surgery and IOL implantation, postoperative restrictions placed on patients undergoing these procedures could be significantly and safely relaxed. We reviewed the charts of 216 patients who had undergone capsulorhexis or "can-opener" capsulotomy, phacoemulsification, and insertion of an oval IOL over a 3-year period, noting any operative or postoperative complications. All of these patients had been examined the day after surgery and, if no complications were noted, had been instructed only to refrain from activities that produced pain. No shield was required, and no instructions were given to restrict showering, hair washing, or any other normal physical activity. We found no complications related to any postoperative activity. These results suggest that current postoperative instructions typically restricting such patients' activities should be reevaluated. 
Coronary thrombosis: pathogenesis and clinical manifestations. The majority (greater than 75%) of major coronary thrombi are precipitated by a sudden rupture of the surface of an atherosclerotic plaque (plaque fissuring) causing platelet aggregation where thrombogenic subendothelial tissue has been exposed. Whether the thrombus remains mural and limited, just sealing the rupture, or evolves into an occlusive thrombus seems to depend on: (1) the amount and character of exposed thrombogenic material; (2) the actual thrombotic-thrombolytic equilibrium; and (3) local flow disturbances due to preexisting atherosclerotic stenosis. Thrombus formation may take place within the stenosis, where blood velocity and shear forces are highest, or it may take place or extend poststenotically, where flow separation, recirculation, and turbulence prevail. Platelet aggregation within the stenosis is responsible for the primary flow obstruction, but fibrin subsequently enmeshes the platelets and thus stabilizes the thrombus. Most thrombi have a layered structure, indicating an episodic growth that may alternate with thrombus fragmentation and peripheral embolization: thrombosis and thrombolysis are dynamic processes occurring simultaneously. If the platelet-rich thrombus at the rupture site evolves into an occlusive thrombus, the blood proximal and distal to the occlusion may stagnate and coagulate, giving rise to a secondarily formed red stagnation thrombosis consisting predominantly of erythrocytes held together by fibrin membranes. A ruptured plaque with a dynamic thrombosis superimposed (with or without spasm) seems to underlie the great majority of acute ischemic syndromes: unstable angina, acute infarction, and sudden death. The clinical presentation and the outcome depend on the severity and duration of ischemia: whether the obstruction is occlusive or nonocclusive, transient or persistent--modified by the magnitude of collateral flow. 
Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical features of coronal adenomas. We studied by electron microscopy three coronal adenomas discovered incidentally in eyes removed surgically. Tumor cells displayed prominent intercellular interdigitations with numerous desmosomes, mitochondria, abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, and nuclei with membrane infoldings and a granular chromatin pattern. In these characteristics, the tumor cells were identical to nonpigmented ciliary epithelium of the ciliary processes. These growths contained abundant extracellular material, which showed a dimorphic pattern of complex reduplicated basal lamina and granular areas without structure. Immunohistochemical studies on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded coronal adenomas demonstrated type IV collagen and laminin in the extracellular material. These findings confirm that coronal adenomas develop from nonpigmented ciliary epithelium and that the extracellular material of these tumors contains components normally present in basement membranes. 
The intraoperative management of the thyroid gland during laryngectomy. The standard of care of laryngeal cancer surgery is wide field excision of the larynx combined with ipsilateral thyroid lobectomy. A retrospective review of 247 laryngectomies performed between 1979 and 1989 was undertaken to determine specific intraoperative indications for thyroid gland removal. The incidence of thyroid disease in our patients with laryngeal cancer was compared to the normal population. Eight percent of thyroid specimens removed during laryngeal cancer surgery demonstrated invasion by squamous cell carcinoma. All patients having thyroid invasion had T3 or T4 laryngeal lesions that were stage IV at the time of surgery. All these lesions were found to have transglottic growth and laryngeal cartilage invasion by the pathologist. All of these patients also had abnormal thyroid glands intraoperatively and laryngeal cartilage destruction that was evident intraoperatively. Total thyroidectomy with bilateral paratracheal and pretracheal lymph node dissection is indicated when squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx involves the thyroid gland. Prophylactic ipsilateral thyroid lobectomy and isthmusectomy is warranted for large laryngeal cancers (T3, T4) that involve the anterior commissure, the subglottic area, or extend transglottically. Routine thyroid gland removal is not indicated for the majority of laryngeal cancers that do not meet the aforementioned criteria. Finally, abnormal thyroid histopathology was diagnosed in 37% of the surgical thyroid gland specimens removed during laryngectomy. 
Human hepatocyte growth factor in blood of patients with fulminant hepatic failure. I. Clinical aspects. The levels of human hepatocyte growth factor (hHGF) in sera obtained from patients with various liver diseases were determined using adult rat hepatocytes maintained in primary culture. The mean hHGF activity for 22 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was about nine times greater than that found in normal human serum. The increase in serum hHGF activity seen in two patients with "acute-on-chronic" hepatitis was similar to that found in patients with fulminant hepatic failure. The serum level of hHGF from patients with acute hepatitis is related to the stage of their illness. The average value for 31 patients was about three times that of normal human serum. In some patients, the time course for the increase in serum hHGF activity was similar to that demonstrated for alpha-fetoprotein. The mean hHGF activity in serum for the 33 patients with chronic hepatitis and from 25 patients with liver cirrhosis was increased also compared with that of normal human serum. In addition, serum hHGF activity in three of seven patients studied after partial hepatectomy for a space-occupying lesion of the liver was increased. These data suggest that the increase in serum hHGF activity present in patients with various liver diseases reflects a self-defense mechanism that is involved in the process of liver cell regeneration. 
DNA methylation profiles in the human genes for tumor necrosis factors alpha and beta in subpopulations of leukocytes and in leukemias. The genomic sequencing technique has been applied to assess the state of methylation in the DNA from human leukocyte subpopulations from healthy individuals and in the DNA from several individuals with myeloid or lymphatic leukemias or non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Leukocyte populations were purified by the high-gradient magnetic cell sorting technique. In the human tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) gene segment between nucleotides 300 and 1150, the specific methylation profile in the DNA from human granulocytes and monocytes is maintained in three cases of myeloid leukemia. In one such case, all 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine residues have been replaced by cytidine. In a chronic lymphatic T-cell leukemia, all 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine residues have been substituted by cytidine. In normal B lymphocytes, in two cases of chronic lymphatic B-cell leukemias and two cases of non-Hodgkin lymphomas, all 5'-CG-3' sequences in this gene segment are devoid of methylation. In the TNF-beta gene, DNA methylation is decreased in several examples of acute or chronic myeloid leukemias in comparison to normal human granulocytes or monocytes, whose DNA is almost completely methylated between nucleotides 700 and 900. In human T and B lymphocytes, the main producers of TNF-beta, in three instances of chronic lymphatic leukemias and two cases of non-Hodgkin lymphomas, all 5'-CG-3' sequences are unmethylated in this region. The DNA from the human HeLa cell line is highly methylated at all 5'-CG-3' sequences in the TNF-alpha and -beta genes. The TNF-alpha gene is transcribed in the cells of one case of acute myeloid leukemia in which the analyzed region of the TNF-alpha gene is completely unmethylated. The TNF-beta gene is not transcribed in any of the malignant cells tested. 
Childhood sexual abuse in patients with paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction. We present three prototypical cases of paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction. The symptoms of this functional disorder mimic those of bronchial asthma attacks. These patients typically have experienced extensive medical intervention including intubation and corticosteroid use. We identify a history of childhood sexual abuse as an important factor contributing to the development of this psychosomatic disorder. We discuss the severity of psychopathology in patients with paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction and how this physical symptom may have developed to express psychological difficulties. 
Gastrointestinal transit of solid-liquid meal in chronic alcoholics. Gastric emptying, mouth-to-cecum transit, and whole-gut transit of a solid-liquid meal were measured in 46 chronic alcoholics and in 30 control subjects by using scintigraphic techniques, hydrogen breath test, and stool markers. In the alcoholics various parameters such as ethanol consumption, gastrointestinal symptoms, and alcoholic neuropathy were determined and related to gastrointestinal transit times. Although there was no significant overall difference of gastric emptying, abnormally delayed gastric emptying was detected in 23.9% of the alcoholics but no control subject (P less than 0.005). Mouth-to-cecum transit was significantly prolonged in the alcoholics (P less than 0.001) with 14 alcoholics (37.8%) disclosing delayed mouth-to-cecum transit. No significant differences between both groups were detected concerning whole gut transit. In the alcoholics there was a significant correlation of dyspeptic symptoms with delayed gastric emptying (P less than 0.006), and alcoholics with diarrhea had an accelerated mouth-to-cecum transit as compared to those without diarrhea (P less than 0.05). Neither the presence of autonomic or peripheral neuropathy nor the presence of liver cirrhosis or ascites was significantly related to gastrointestinal transit times. However, the daily ethanol ingestion significantly correlated with gastric emptying (P less than 0.005). It is concluded, therefore, that in chronic alcoholics the small intestine and the stomach are most likely to be affected by gastrointestinal transit disorders and that these transit abnormalities are potentially related to toxic damage of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. 
Partial, non-thrombotic, superior sagittal sinus occlusion due to occipital skull tumours. Two cases are described in which raised intracranial pressure occurred as a result of superior sagittal sinus (SSS) occlusion by an occipital skull tumour. One was a plasmacytoma, the other a metastatic deposit from a Ewing's sarcoma. The difficulties in diagnosis of this syndrome are illustrated together with the importance and success of appropriate treatment. From the literature it appears possible that these two tumours may be particularly likely to occlude the SSS and the reasons for this are discussed. 
Magnetic resonance imaging vs palpation of cervical lymph node metastasis. In a series of 100 patients with head and neck carcinoma, the preoperative histopathologic findings of palpation and magnetic resonance imaging were compared with regard to both laterality and lymph node level (I through V). The overall error for palpation in detecting affected sides was 32%. Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance images reliably upgraded 60% of the clinically negative necks, the overall error of magnetic resonance imaging being 16%. However, for both modalities, the sensitivity per level was too low to allow for selective neck dissections in case of only one positive level. These findings show that apart from primary tumor grading, magnetic resonance imaging can improve the preoperative grading of cervical lymph nodes. In selected cases, this may change the treatment plan to a "wait-and-see" policy or a more conservative type of neck dissection. 
Fatal disseminated hemorrhagic toxoplasmic encephalitis as the initial manifestation of AIDS. A 28-year-old woman presented with progressive coma after being asymptomatic for 1 year after the demonstration of seropositivity for human immunodeficiency virus and high serum immunoglobulin G toxoplasma titers. Computed tomographic scanning showed multiple rounded cerebral hemorrhages and massive cerebral edema. Postmortem examination disclosed Toxoplasma gondii cysts scattered throughout the brain. An overwhelming fatal toxoplasmosis associated with multiple cerebral hemorrhages may be the first presentation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We raise the possibility that frequent neuroradiological monitoring may be indicated in asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with high immunoglobulin G toxoplasma titers. 
Thrombolysis in postinfarction angina. Postinfarction angina carries a poor prognosis, with a 20-70% incidence of recurrent myocardial infarction (MI) or death within the subsequent 3-6 months. The pathophysiologic mechanisms causing postinfarction angina may include thrombus, complex coronary arterial lesions that form a nidus for thrombus formation, inadequate collateral supply following acute MI, or intimal endothelial dysfunction. The role of thrombus has been established in the pathophysiology of Q-wave MI, and thrombolytic treatment of patients presenting with acute transmural MI has been shown to salvage left ventricular function and to reduce mortality. However, thrombolytic therapy for the acute MI does not reduce the incidence of recurrent ischemia or infarction, as is evident from the 18-26% incidence of recurrent ischemia reported in the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) and Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) trials. In the Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Streptochinasi nell'Infarto Miocardico (GISSI) study the incidence of reinfarction was documented as 4% in the streptokinase group, which was actually significantly greater than in the placebo group (2%). In a randomized placebo-controlled study of thrombolysis for postinfarction angina, 29 patients were randomized to placebo (P group, n = 17) or to thrombolytic therapy (T group, n = 12). Patient groups were similar with respect to age, location of MI, ejection fraction, severity of coronary artery disease, and antianginal therapy. Patients underwent coronary angiography 6 +/- 1 days postinfarction. Filling defects consistent with intracoronary thrombus was seen in 11 of 12 T group patients and in 11 of 17 P group patients prior to treatment. Lysis occurred in 7 of 11 T patients and 1 of 11 P (p less than 0.02). Holter-detected silent ischemia was compared pre- and posttherapy. 
Topical amethocaine in strabismus surgery. A randomized study was performed to assess the effect of topical 1% amethocaine hydrochloride on postoperative analgesia requirements after strabismus surgery. Forty children scheduled for elective operation were allocated randomly to receive either topical amethocaine or normal saline. Postoperative analgesia was evaluated with the use of a four-point assessment score and analgesic requirements. The topical amethocaine provided significantly better postoperative analgesia (p less than 0.001) as measured by both the assessment score and the postoperative analgesia requirement. 
Diffuse Lewy body disease presenting with a supranuclear gaze palsy. A patient with diffuse Lewy body disease presented with supranuclear vertical and horizontal ophthalmoplegia, dementia, axial rigidity and falls, bradykinesia and pyramidal signs. This broadens the clinical presentation of this pathological diagnosis and re-emphasises the heterogeneity of patients diagnosed clinically as progressive supranuclear palsy (Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome). 
Chemotherapy compared with bone marrow transplantation for adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first remission. OBJECTIVE: To compare efficacy of intensive postremission chemotherapy with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first remission. DESIGN: Retrospective comparison of two cohorts of patients. SETTING: Chemotherapy recipients were treated in 44 hospitals in West Germany in two cooperative group trials; transplants were done in 98 hospitals worldwide. PATIENTS: Patients (484) receiving intensive postremission chemotherapy and 251 recipients of HLA-identical sibling bone marrow transplants for ALL in first remission. Patients ranged from 15 to 45 years of age and were treated between 1980 and 1987. MAIN RESULTS: Similar prognostic factors predicted treatment failure (non-T-cell phenotype, high leukocyte count at diagnosis, and 8 or more weeks to achieve first remission) of both therapies. After statistical adjustments were made for differences in disease characteristics and time-to-treatment, survival was similar in the chemotherapy and transplant cohorts: Five-year leukemia-free survival probability was 38% (95% CI, 33% to 43%) with chemotherapy and 44% (CI, 37% to 52%) with transplant. No specific prognostic group had a significantly better outcome with one treatment compared with the other (6% for the difference; CI, -3% to 15%). Causes of treatment failure differed: With chemotherapy, 268 (96%) failures were from relapse and 11 (4%) were treatment-related; with transplants, 43 (32%) failures were from relapse and 92 (68%) were treatment-related. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that bone marrow transplants currently offer no special advantage over chemotherapy for adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first remission. 
Intravenous adenosine in the emergency department management of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. STUDY PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of adenosine in the treatment of emergency department patients with spontaneous paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT). DESIGN: An eight-month prospective outcome study. POPULATION: Patients 16 or more years old with PSVT by surface ECG criteria. Patients were excluded if there was clinical or hemodynamic evidence of hypoperfusion. MEASUREMENTS: Patient age, sex, PSVT rate, pretreatment blood pressure, history of cardiac disease, chronic drug therapy, and response to IV adenosine. RESULTS: Twenty-three patients with 27 episodes of suspected PSVT met inclusion criteria. After IV adenosine, two patients were found to have atrial flutter, and one was found to have ventricular tachycardia. Twenty-four episodes of PSVT were diagnosed in the remaining 21 patients. There were eight male and 13 female patients with a mean age of 51 +/- 19 years (range, 16 to 80 years). Sixteen patients related a history of cardiovascular disease. The mean QRS rate during PSVT was 181 +/- 23. Twenty-three of 24 episodes (96%) were converted to sinus rhythm within 20 to 45 seconds of adenosine therapy. However, 13 of 23 of initial conversions (57%) were followed by recurrence of PSVT within five minutes. All 13 recurrences required therapy with other antiarrhythmic drugs for conversion to and maintenance of sinus rhythm. Complications of adenosine were noted in only four patients and were transient and clinically unimportant. CONCLUSION: IV adenosine effectively terminates PSVT in ED patients with spontaneous PSVT; recurrence of PSVT after adenosine is common in the ED population and should be treated with other antiarrhythmic agents, not repeated doses of adenosine; adenosine is useful in the differential diagnosis of tachyarrhythmias; and doubling the initial dose of adenosine to 12 mg would increase the likelihood of conversion with the first dose. 
Diagnostic imaging of heterotopic ossification with coexistent deep-venous thrombosis in flaccid paraplegia. Heterotopic ossification and deep-venous thrombosis can coexist. This raises potential problems because diagnosis depends heavily on imaging studies, and an ideal imaging study which will cost-effectively and noninvasively diagnose both conditions simultaneously is not readily available. A case of coexistent heterotopic ossification and deep-venous thrombosis in flaccid paraplegia is presented. In this case, deep-venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolus were diagnosed and treatment was begun without knowledge of the coexistent heterotopic ossification. Alternative imaging and laboratory diagnostic strategies are discussed. It was concluded that, at this time, clinical acumen and judicious use of traditional diagnostic alternatives is the best means of selecting appropriate treatment. Awareness of the coexistence of the two conditions are careful attention to the patient's clinical course can minimize treatment delays and resultant morbidity. 
Primary carcinoid of the common bile duct. Immunohistochemical characterization of a case and review of the literature. A 39-year-old woman with a primary carcinoid of the common bile duct is presented. The tumor showed argyrophilia; and, by immunohistochemical studies, chromogranin, serotonin, and somatostatin were demonstrated. The patient has no symptoms 42 months after surgical treatment. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a carcinoid of the common bile duct as studied by immunohistochemistry. When six choledochal carcinoids were reviewed, the following characteristics were observed: in none of the cases were endocrine symptoms present; women were affected more frequently than men; the carcinoids occurred in younger patients than did adenocarcinomas; metastases were present in half of the patients; and, as a group, carcinoids seemed to have a better prognosis than adenocarcinomas in this location. 
Human insulin and awareness of acute hypoglycaemic symptoms in insulin-dependent diabetes. Some insulin-dependent diabetic patients who have clear symptoms of hypoglycaemia during animal insulin treatment have reported loss of these symptoms when human insulin preparations are introduced. A survey of Mersey Region, UK, identified eleven patients whose awareness of hypoglycaemia was lost after introduction of human insulin but returned with animal insulin treatment; seven took part in the study. Acute hypoglycaemia was induced in these patients on two occasions by intravenous infusion of porcine or human soluble insulin (2.5 mU.kg-1, min-1) in random order. There was no significant difference between porcine and soluble insulin in the plasma glucose profile; mean (SEM) plasma glucose fell from 7.1 (0.4) mmol/l to a nadir of 1.5 (0.1) mmol/l with porcine insulin and from 7.1 (0.5) mmol/l to 1.6 (0.2) mmol/l with human insulin. An acute autonomic reaction occurred in all seven patients, at a similar plasma glucose concentration (1.9 [0.1] mmol/l with porcine insulin; 2.0 [0.2] mmol/l with human insulin). There were no significant differences in the frequency of symptoms or signs of hypoglycaemia between the two insulin species, nor any consistent differences in plasma glucagon, cortisol, growth hormone, adrenaline, or noradrenaline responses to hypoglycaemia. Symptomatic and hormonal responses to acute hypoglycaemia induced by porcine and human soluble insulins therefore seem to be almost indistinguishable, even in patients carefully selected for their apparent loss of hypoglycaemia awareness with human insulin. 
Multivariate clinical models and quantitative dipyridamole-thallium imaging to predict cardiac morbidity and death after vascular reconstruction. Patients with peripheral vascular disease have a high prevalence of coronary artery disease and are at increased risk for cardiac morbidity and death after vascular reconstruction. The present study was undertaken to assess the value of 18 clinical parameters, of 7 clinical scoring systems, and of quantitative dipyridamole-thallium imaging for predicting the occurrence of postoperative myocardial infarction or cardiac death. Vascular surgery was performed in 125 patients. Thirteen postoperative cardiac events occurred, including 10 cardiac deaths and 3 nonfatal infarctions. Clinical parameters were not useful in predicting postoperative outcome. All 63 patients with normal scan results or fixed perfusion defects underwent surgery uneventfully, whereas 21% (13/62) of patients with reversible defects had a postoperative cardiac complication. By use of quantitative scintigraphic indexes we found that patients with reversible defects could be stratified into intermediate and high-risk subgroups with postoperative event rates of 5% (2/47) and 85% (11/13), respectively, despite intensive postoperative monitoring and antianginal medication. Thus in patients unable to complete a standard exercise stress test, postoperative outcome cannot be predicted clinically, whereas dipyridamole-thallium imaging successfully identified all patients who had a postoperative cardiac event. By use of quantification we found that patients with reversible defects can be stratified into an intermediate risk subgroup that can undergo surgery with minimal complication rate and a high-risk subgroup that requires coronary angiography. 
Progressive vs single-stage treadmill tests for evaluation of claudication. The reliability of claudication pain and the metabolic and hemodynamic measurements of the lower limbs of patients with stable peripheral vascular occlusive disease (PVOD) were compared during and following single-stage (S) and progressive (P) treadmill tests. Ten patients (69.8 +/- 1.8 yr; X +/- SE) walked to maximal claudication pain twice a month for 4 months. Patients walked at 1.5 mph up a 7.5% grade (S test) and at 2 mph on a 0% grade, increasing by 2% every 2 min (P test). Distance walked to the onset of claudication pain (CPD) and maximal walking distance (MWD) were recorded. Foot transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2) was measured before, during, and after exercise, while ankle systolic blood pressure (SBP) and the ankle-to-brachial SBP index (ABI) were measured before and after exercise. Intraclass correlation coefficients (R) of CPD and MWD during S tests were R = 0.53 and R = 0.55, respectively. In contrast, the respective R values during P tests were R = 0.89 and R = 0.93. Higher R values of foot TcPO2 were also obtained during and following P tests, while ankle SBP and ABI were highly reliable following both tests. It is concluded that the severity of PVOD is better assessed by P treadmill tests because clinical measurements are more reliable during exercise and recovery. 
Role of radiation after operative palliation in cancer of the proximal bile ducts. Cancer of the proximal bile ducts continues to pose a formidable problem to even the most experienced biliary surgeon. From 1977 through 1985, 51 patients with histologically confirmed proximal bile duct cancers underwent surgical treatment. The lesion was confined to the hilar region in 30 patients; there was extensive hepatic infiltration or distant metastatic disease in 21 patients. One patient underwent resection. Biopsy only was performed in six patients. In the remaining 44 patients, transtumoral dilation and intubation were performed. These 44 patients were further analyzed with regard to how survival was affected by the presence of metastatic disease and by the adjunctive use of radiation therapy. Mean survival in those patients with metastatic disease (n = 16) was 6.1 months, and survival was not improved by the use of postoperative radiation. In the absence of metastatic or advanced local disease, however, the addition of external beam radiation did significantly extend the mean survival from 4.5 to 12.2 months and the median survival from 2.2 to 12.2 months. The operative mortality for the series was 14% and postoperative complications occurred in 18 patients. These findings suggest that the addition of external beam radiation improves survival in patients undergoing palliative treatment of hilar tumors. Further confirmation of the value of radiation awaits prospective investigation. 
Induction of preovulatory luteinizing hormone surge and prevention of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome by gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist. OBJECTIVE: To use gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) instead of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) to induce oocyte maturation for in vitro fertilization (IVF). DESIGN: Pituitary and ovarian responses to GnRH-a and the outcome of IVF were studied prospectively. Data from patients injected with hCG were analyzed retrospectively. SETTING: Program of IVF at the Rambam (Governmental) Hospital, Haifa, Israel. PATIENTS AND INTERVENTIONS: One or two doses of buserelin acetate 250 to 500 micrograms were administered to six patients with moderate response (Estradiol [E2], 1,494 +/- 422 [+/- SD] pg/mL) and 8 patients with exaggerated response (E2, 7,673 +/- 3,028 pg/mL) to gonadotropin stimulation. Progesterone (P) and E2 were administered for luteal support. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist effectively triggered luteinizing hormone (LH)/follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) surge. Mature oocytes were recovered in all patients. Luteal E2 and P were lower than in patients injected with hCG. No signs of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome were observed. RESULTS: Serum LH and FSH rose over 4 and 12 hours, respectively, and were significantly (P less than 0.05) elevated for 24 hours. Of all mature oocytes, 67% fertilized and 82% cleaved. Four pregnancies were obtained. CONCLUSIONS: A bolus of GnRH-a is able to trigger an adequate midcycle LH/FSH surge, resulting in oocyte maturation and pregnancy. Our preliminary results also suggest that it allows a more accurate control of ovarian steroid levels during the luteal phase and may prevent the clinical manifestation of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. 
Interaction between dactinomycin and tumor necrosis factor in mesothelioma. Cachexia without oncolysis. There is no effective therapy for human malignant mesothelioma, and its susceptibility to recombinant cytokines has not been studied extensively. Recombinant human tumor necrosis factor alpha (rHuTNF alpha) was evaluated for its in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity using a human malignant mesothelioma cell line [DeH128(m)], both in culture and heterotransplanted in nude mice. In vitro, rHuTNF alone had no direct antimesothelioma activity assessed using the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide assay, but in combination with the transcription inhibitor, dactinomycin (AD), mesothelioma cell metabolic activity was inhibited (80% of control). The effects of this combination of agents were studied on DeH128(m) cells heterotransplanted as subcutaneous tumors in nude mice. In vivo there was no significant inhibition of tumor growth by combined rHuTNF alpha and AD therapy, but the combination produced marked cachexia in doses at which each component (rHuTNF alone or AD alone) was well tolerated. The authors conclude that the well-described in vitro interaction between AD and rHuTNF also operates in vivo to produce cachexia and that the combination of these two agents is likely to have a low therapeutic index in malignant mesothelioma. 
Prevention of neural tube defects: results of the Medical Research Council Vitamin Study. MRC Vitamin Study Research Group. A randomised double-blind prevention trial with a factorial design was conducted at 33 centres in seven countries to determine whether supplementation with folic acid (one of the vitamins in the B group) or a mixture of seven other vitamins (A,D,B1,B2,B6,C and nicotinamide) around the time of conception can prevent neural tube defects (anencephaly, spina bifida, encephalocele). A total of 1817 women at high risk of having a pregnancy with a neural tube defect, because of a previous affected pregnancy, were allocated at random to one of four groups--namely, folic acid, other vitamins, both, or neither. 1195 had a completed pregnancy in which the fetus or infant was known to have or not have a neural tube defect; 27 of these had a known neural tube defect, 6 in the folic acid groups and 21 in the two other groups, a 72% protective effect (relative risk 0.28, 95% confidence interval 0.12-0.71). The other vitamins showed no significant protective effect (relative risk 0.80, 95% Cl 0.32-1.72). There was no demonstrable harm from the folic acid supplementation, though the ability of the study to detect rare or slight adverse effects was limited. Folic acid supplementation starting before pregnancy can now be firmly recommended for all women who have had an affected pregnancy, and public health measures should be taken to ensure that the diet of all women who may bear children contains an adequate amount of folic acid. 
Thallium-201 scintigraphy after intravenous infusion of adenosine compared with exercise thallium testing in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease Adenosine is an endogenously produced compound that has significant effects as a coronary and systemic vasodilator. Previous studies suggest that intravenous infusion of adenosine, coupled with thallium-201 scintigraphy, may have specific value as a noninvasive means of evaluating coronary artery disease. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic value of adenosine thallium testing with that of standard exercise thallium testing. One hundred subjects were studied with exercise thallium imaging and thallium imaging after adenosine infusion, including 47 with angiographically proved coronary artery disease and 53 control subjects. The overall sensitivity of the thallium procedures was 81% for the exercise study and 83% for the adenosine study (p = NS); the specificity was 74% for the exercise study and 75% for the adenosine study (p = NS). The diagnostic accuracy of the exercise study was 77% and that of the adenosine study was 79%. Ninety-four percent of subjects had an adverse effect due to the adenosine infusion; however, most of these effects were mild and well tolerated. All adverse effects abated within 30 to 45 s of the termination of the study, consistent with the very brief half-life of the agent. Thus, thallium-201 scintigraphy after intravenous infusion of adenosine has a diagnostic value similar to that of exercise thallium testing for evaluation of coronary artery disease. Adenosine thallium testing may be particularly useful in evaluating patients unable to perform treadmill exercise testing. 
Evidence for a central but not a peripheral analgesic effect of clomipramine in rats. The effect of clomipramine (CMI), a tricyclic antidepressant, was studied on an acute inflammatory pain model in an attempt to understand its potential antinociceptive activity, the involvement of a central and/or peripheral component and its influence on the inflammatory process. When administered (i.v.) before the inflammatory agent, carrageenan (CAR), CMI (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) completely prevented the development of the hyperalgesia for 70-120 min according to the doses. This antinociceptive effect was suppressed by naloxone (100 micrograms/kg i.v.) for 65 min. Neither higher doses (1, 2 and 20 mg/kg, i.v.) nor CMI injected into the inflamed paw (15 min before CAR) modified pain thresholds. Moreover, CMI (0.5 and 2 mg/kg, i.v.) administered 15 min before CAR markedly increased the volume of the CAR-induced oedema. These results (1) demonstrate an opioid-dependent antinociceptive effect of CMI on this model, the doses used being lower than those active in thermal or electrical tests, and (2) tend to exclude a peripheral mechanism and an NSAID-like anti-inflammatory activity suggested by previous in vitro studies. 
Management of perioperative hypertension using intravenous isradipine. The antihypertensive action of acute intravenous isradipine was investigated during fentanyl/pancuronium/nitrous oxide anesthesia for noncardiac surgery. An intravenous (iv) infusion of 0.5 mg isradipine (n = 10) or placebo (n = 11) was administered double-blind over 5 min if mean arterial pressure (MAP) was greater than 110 mm Hg. The number of patients with a favorable blood pressure reduction (delta MAP greater than or equal to 10% with MAP less than or equal to 110 mm Hg) was 80% with isradipine and 20% with placebo (P less than .05), and the mean MAP reduction from baseline was 26 +/- 12 and 2 +/- 16 mm Hg, respectively (P less than .001). Due to reflex activation of the sympathetic nervous system, the heart rate increased by 14 +/- 12 beats/min with acute iv isradipine. The antihypertensive effect was sustained for 45 min. Isradipine was also well tolerated. It is concluded that intravenous isradipine is an effective antihypertensive agent for the treatment of perioperative hypertension during noncardiac surgery. 
Temporal association of CD40 antigen expression with discrete stages of human B-cell ontogeny and the efficacy of anti-CD40 immunotoxins against clonogenic B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia as well as B-lineage non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cells. Detailed immunophenotypic analyses of immunologically classified leukemias and lymphomas showed that CD40 displays an exquisite B-lineage specificity within the human lymphopoietic system. Notably, 82% of B-lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemias (CLLs), 82% of B-lineage hairy cell leukemias (HCLs), 86% of B-lineage non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs), and 29% of B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs) were CD40+. Quantitative analyses of the correlated expression of CD40 and other B-lineage differentiation antigens on fetal lymphoid precursor cells by multiparameter two-color/three-color flow cytometry, combined with analyses of sequential antigen expression on fluorescence-activated cell fluorescence activated cell sorter (FACS) isolated immunologically distinct fetal B-cell precursor subpopulations during in vitro proliferation and differentiation, provided evidence that the acquisition of CD40 antigen in human B-cell ontogeny occurs subsequent to the expression of CD10 and CD19 antigens but before the surface expression of CD20, CD21, CD22, CD24, and surface immunoglobulin M (sIgM). Some leukemic pro-B cells from ALL patients as well as normal pro-B cell clones from fetal livers displaying germline Ig heavy chain genes were CD40+, indicating that the acquisition of CD40 antigen likely precedes the rearrangement of Ig heavy chain genes. CD40+ FACS-sorted malignant cells from B-lineage ALL as well as B-lineage NHL patients were capable of in vitro clonogenic growth, indicating the CD40 antigen is expressed on clonogenic leukemia and lymphoma cells. This hypothesis was confirmed by the ability of an anti-CD40 immunotoxin that we used as an antigen-specific cytotoxic probe to effectively kill clonogenic B-lineage ALL and NHL cells. 
The C-terminal half of UvrC protein is sufficient to reconstitute (A)BC excinuclease. The UvrC protein is one of three subunits of the Escherichia coli repair enzyme (A)BC excinuclease. This subunit is thought to have at least one of the active sites for nucleophilic attack on the phosphodiester bonds of damaged DNA. To localize the active site, mutant UvrC proteins were constructed by linker-scanning and deletion mutagenesis. In vivo studies revealed that the C-terminal 314 amino acids of the 610-amino acid UvrC protein were sufficient to confer UV resistance to cells lacking the uvrC gene. The portion of the uvrC gene encoding the C-terminal half of the protein was fused to the 3' end of the E. coli malE gene (which encodes maltose binding protein), and the fusion protein MBP-C314C was purified and characterized. The fusion protein, in combination with UvrA and UvrB subunits, reconstituted the excinuclease activity that incised the eighth phosphodiester bond 5' and the fourth phosphodiester bond 3' to a psoralen-thymine adduct. These results suggest that the C-terminal 314 amino acids of UvrC constitute a functional domain capable of interacting with the UvrB-damaged DNA complex and of inducing the two phosphodiester bond incisions characteristic of (A)BC excinuclease. 
Stroke-like episodes in familial mitochondrial encephalomyopathy: clinical and biochemical aspects. Acute episodes of focal neurological dysfunction are a well-recognized complication of the mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. Because of rapid remission, biochemical tests and other diagnostic procedures are mostly performed after the acute phase. We report the case of a patient suffering from mitochondrial disease manifesting primarily with seizures, progressive deafness and dementia, who experienced multiple stroke-like episodes. Other members of the family with evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction are presented briefly. EEG and biochemical findings in the acute stage are correlated with clinical symptoms, showing characteristics distinct from the chronic illness. The possible involvement of dietary factors in the provocation of stroke-like episodes is discussed and regulation of glucose intake suggested as a strategy in the prevention of stroke-like episodes. 
Thrombolytic therapy in acute MI. Weighing the risks and benefits. The underlying cause of acute myocardial infarction can now be effectively treated with thrombolytic agents, thereby increasing myocardial salvage and reducing mortality. Clinicians should always be aware of the risk-to-benefit ratio in treating patients with thrombolytic agents and treat each patient on an individual basis. 
A preliminary report of ticarcillin and clavulanate versus triple antibiotic therapy in children with ruptured appendicitis. Standard therapy for childhood ruptured appendicitis includes combination antibiotic therapy with ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin. Complicated dosing schedules and the possibility of aminoglycoside toxicity make alternatives desirable. One such alternative is Timentin (a combination agent of ticarcillin disodium and clavulanate potassium). This agent has a more convenient dose schedule than standard therapy and eliminates the possibility of aminoglycoside ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. It is active in vitro against most pathogens associated with ruptured appendicitis in children. The preliminary results of an ongoing prospective, open label, randomized trial comparing ticarcillin and clavulanate with ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin in childhood ruptured appendicitis are reported herein. While further evaluation is necessary, we have found single agent therapy with ticarcillin and clavulanate to be equivalent in safety and efficacy to standard combination therapy. Also discussed are the relative merits of immediate versus delayed primary closure of the abdominal wound after appendectomy. 
Blunt cervical spine Brown-Sequard injury. A report of three cases. Cervical spinal cord Brown-Sequard syndrome was diagnosed in three recent victims of blunt injury at the authors' Level II Trauma Center. While anatomic hemisection of the cord, resulting in ipsilateral motor and proprioception loss and contralateral pain and temperature deficit, is a fully understandable concept, in the context of the acute trauma evaluation, these findings may be confusing because they are unexpected. Penetrating trauma is far more likely to cause this uncommon syndrome than vehicular crash, fall, or crushing injury. Pediatric victims frequently have no fracture. Early neurosurgical consultation, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if plain film radiography is uninformative, and consideration for rapid decompression if the deficit and pathologic anatomy warrant, are the recommended approaches. Motor function recovery from blunt injury may be expected within six months, a better prognosis than for penetrating injury causing the syndrome. 
Proliferative and antiproliferative effects of interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha on cell lines derived from cervical and ovarian malignancies. Four human cell lines derived from cervical carcinomas (ME-180, SiHa, HT-3, and MS751) and three human cell lines derived from ovarian carcinomas (SK-OV-3, Caov-3, and NIH:OVCAR-3) were analyzed in vitro to determine the effect of recombinant interferon-gamma and recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha on cell growth and survival. The effects of interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and both interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha on cell growth were measured after 24 and 72 hours of incubation by the incorporation of chromium 51. The results of this analysis showed that all seven cell lines were resistant to the antiproliferative action of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, that the growth of most cell lines was inhibited by interferon-gamma by 72 hours of incubation, and that after 72 hours of incubation all cell lines demonstrated a synergistic antiproliferative response to the combination of interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. However, the effects of these cytokines on cell growth were found to differ among cell lines and varied with the concentration and the duration of incubation. The growth of one cell line (Caov-3) was stimulated by both tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma. These results suggest that the clinical effects of these cytokines on the growth of gynecologic cancers may be more complex than previously supposed. 
Small bowel tumours: yield of enteroscopy. A total of 258 patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding were referred for small bowel enteroscopy, a procedure which allows endoscopic evaluation of most of the small intestine. A small bowel tumour was found in 5% of patients. In 50% of patients no diagnosis could be made, but when the cause of obscure bleeding was discovered small bowel tumours were the single most common lesion in patients younger than 50 years. Small bowel tumours causing gastrointestinal bleeding may remain undetected despite extensive diagnostic evaluation. We conclude that small bowel tumours are the most common cause of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding in patients less than 50 years of age. Small bowel enteroscopy is diagnostic of small bowel tumours even when all previous diagnostic studies, including enteroclysis and angiography, are negative. 
Adrenal activation and the prolactin response to exercise in eumenorrheic and amenorrheic runners. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and prolactin responses following maximal and submaximal (40 min at 80% maximal O2 consumption) running were studied in eumenorrheic (ER; n = 8, 29.0 +/- 1.5 yr) and amenorrheic (AR; n = 8, 24.5 +/- 2.0 yr) runners. ER were studied in the early follicular and midluteal phases of the menstrual cycle. Physical, training, and gynecological characteristics were similar, and cardiorespiratory and metabolic responses to the exercises were indistinguishable in the groups. ACTH, cortisol, and prolactin data from the follicular luteal phases in ER were combined for comparison to AR, because no differences were noted between the menstrual phases at rest. Similar preexercise ACTH levels and responses following exercise occurred in both groups, but preexercise cortisol levels were elevated (ER = 293.1 +/- 46.3, AR = 479.6 +/- 42.4 nmol/l) and cortisol responses blunted in AR. Adrenal sensitivity was blunted in AR compared with ER after submaximal (ER = 121.9 +/- 17.4, AR = 51.7 +/- 13.6) and maximal exercise (ER = 27.9 +/- 9.2, AR = 12.1 +/- 3.8). Preexercise prolactin levels were reduced (ER = 16.4 +/- 2.7, AR = 10 +/- 2.3 micrograms/l), and prolactin responses to maximal exercises were blunted in AR, despite high lactate levels (11.4 +/- 0.4 mmol/l). We conclude that 1) control for menstrual phase in ER is important in studies of prolactin responses following exercise but not in studies of ACTH and cortisol responses following exercise, 2) cortisol responses following submaximal and maximal exercise in AR are blunted at the adrenal level, 3) prolactin responses following submaximal and maximal exercise are also blunted in AR, and 4) prolactin responses following exercise may be mediated by adrenal activation. 
Circus movement atrial flutter in canine sterile pericarditis model. Activation patterns during entrainment and termination of single-loop reentry in vivo. BACKGROUND. Recently, we used a custom designed "jacket" electrode with 127 bipolar electrodes in a flexible nylon matrix to map the total atrial epicardial surface in the in situ canine heart. Atrial flutter in dogs with sterile pericarditis was shown to be due to a single wave front circulating around a combined functional/anatomic obstacle, with the arc of functional conduction block contiguous with one or more of the atrial vessels. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the present study, this model was used to analyze the activation pattern during pacing-induced entrainment and termination of single reentrant loops in a syncytium without anatomically predetermined pathways. Sustained atrial flutter was induced in five dogs with 3-5-day-old sterile pericarditis. Atrial pacing at a cycle length 5-30 msec shorter than the spontaneous cycle length entrained the arrhythmia and could result in a "classical" activation pattern, characterized by an antidromic stimulated wave that collided with the reentrant orthodromic wave front of the previous beat at a constant site. However, two variations of this classical activation pattern were also observed: 1) Pacing at short cycle lengths could lead to localized conduction block in antidromic direction, forcing a change in the pathway of the antidromic wave front. This could prevent the expected shift of the site of collision in antidromic direction. 2) The stimulated orthodromic wave front could also use a pathway different from that of the original reentrant impulse, so that a different circuit was active during the pacing period. Termination of atrial flutter by rapid atrial stimulation was associated with progressive slowing and finally blocking of the paced orthodromic wave front and a progressive shift of the site of collision in antidromic direction. The occurrence of conduction block was determined by the cycle length of stimulation and the number of stimulated beats. A longer train at the critical cycle length or the critical number of beats at a shorter cycle length could reinduce the same reentrant circuit or a different reentrant circuit, respectively, during stimulated cycles following the beat that terminated reentry. CONCLUSIONS. The epicardial activation sequence during entrainment of reentrant arrhythmias does not necessarily follow a standard activation pattern. Instead, the stimulated orthodromic as well as the antidromic wave front might use a pathway different from that of the original reentrant wave front. The mechanisms of termination, failure of termination, and reinitiation of single-loop reentry are similar to those in the "figure-eight" reentrant circuit. 
Inguinal hernia repair in early infancy. Controversy regarding the management of inguinal hernias in young infants stimulated this study. It was our hypothesis that inguinal hernia in young infants can and should be repaired at the time of presentation. In order to address this issue, the following questions were examined: How frequently are these hernias incarcerated and how should this be managed? What is the best timing of repair? Should the asymptomatic contralateral groin be explored? How do the recurrence and complication rates compare with those in older children? Have advances in anesthesia affected the treatment of these infants? The records of 384 infants less than 2 months of age who underwent inguinal herniorrhaphy from January 1985 to January 1990 at Children's Hospital and Medical Center in Seattle were reviewed. Nearly one fourth (24%) of the patients had incarcerated hernias. Preoperative reduction was successful 96% of the time. The hernia was then repaired within 48 hours. Six patients required urgent operation, but bowel resection was not necessary in any. Contralateral groin exploration was performed 96% of the time and was positive in 85%. The recurrence rate was 1.0%. Complications occurred in 2.3% of patients. There were no hernia-related deaths. Spinal anesthesia was used in 63 patients with no postoperative apnea. An aggressive approach toward prompt repair of hernias in this age group can result in a very low incidence of hernia-related complications. Repair can be carried out safely in the first 2 months of life with recurrence and complication rates comparable with those in older children. Spinal anesthesia may lower the rate of postoperative apnea. 
Granulomatous vasculitis occurring after cutaneous herpes zoster despite absence of viral genome. Granuloma annulare, sarcoidal and other granulomatous dermatitides, pseudolymphoma, lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma, and Kaposi's sarcoma have been described as sequelae of herpes zoster. We report a new postzoster reaction, granulomatous vasculitis, that caused flat-topped papules restricted to the affected dermatome. Polymerase chain reaction failed to detect varicella-zoster virus in a biopsy specimen. These results suggest that granulomatous vasculitis occurs without persistence of the viral genome and, perhaps, is a reaction to minute amounts of viral proteins. 
Squamous carcinoma of the temporal bone: a revised staging. Carcinoma of the middle ear is a difficult tumour to treat. We present ten cases and discuss staging of these tumours. Our results would suggest that a revised staging system may allow better identification of patients that would benefit from surgery whilst sparing some multilating surgery that offers little to improve their quality or quantity of life. 
Predictive value of brainstem evoked response in the diagnosis of acoustic neuroma. Predictive value positive is the probability that a positive test result represents a true positive finding. Twenty-six patients with brainstem evoked response findings characteristic of retrocochlear hearing loss were studied. Four acoustic neuromas were diagnosed in this group after radiologic workup. The predictive value in this population was 15%. Statistical considerations are presented. 
Development of gastric dysplasia in pernicious anaemia: a clinical and endoscopic follow up study of 80 patients. The development of gastric dysplasia and neoplasia in patients with pernicious anaemia has been evaluated in a prospective clinical and endoscopic follow up study. After initial screening of 80 patients between 1978 and 1980, one patient underwent total gastrectomy for a gastric malignancy and 12 were kept under surveillance and underwent endoscopy at a mean interval of 14 months. In the remaining 67 patients further investigation was attempted six to seven years after the initial investigation. The continuous follow up study identified carcinoids in one patient and an adenoma with severe dysplasia in a further patient. The grade and site of mucosal dysplasia differed from one investigation to the next, but no overall progression was observed. Of the 79 patients, eight had died by the time of the reinvestigation, two of unknown cause and six of causes unrelated to pernicious anaemia. In 38 of the remaining 71 patients, clinical data only were available, with no evidence of new gastric malignancy. In 27 patients it was possible to perform an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, when no change in the degree of dysplasia was detected. In six patients no follow up information was obtainable. In conclusion, patients with pernicious anaemia should be investigated by upper gastrointestinal endoscopy soon after diagnosis. Polyps should be removed wherever possible. In the presence of severe mucosal dysplasia or polyps that are not removed, frequent reinvestigation should be performed, provided the patient is eligible for gastric surgery. In the remaining patients, follow up endoscopies at about five year intervals would seem sufficient. 
Outpatient liver biopsy: one man's experience. As an academically based gastroenterologist, I performed 94 outpatient liver biopsies over a 42-month period, using the standard suction technique. Differential blood count and vital signs were monitored, with no statistically significant postbiopsy changes noted in the group at large. One patient required admission to the hospital for bleeding, and six patients required intramuscular analgesics for pain at the biopsy site. Four patients had bradycardia, and one of them required atropine for bradycardia and hypotension. Outpatient liver biopsy is a safe procedure with low morbidity and complication rate. It would appear that prolonged monitoring is not necessary. 
Trauma-precipitated migrainous hemiparesis. Migraine is a pleomorphic condition in which neurologic manifestations may be absent or a minor or a major feature. Similarly, head injury may range from trivial to lethal with regard to neurologic morbidity. Migraine may be precipitated by a variety of stimuli, including head trauma, significant or trivial. Presented is the case of a patient with migrainous hemiparesis precipitated by minor head injury. The clinical features and laboratory and radiological findings of trauma-precipitated migraine are reviewed. 
Fatal disseminated hemorrhagic toxoplasmic encephalitis as the initial manifestation of AIDS. A 28-year-old woman presented with progressive coma after being asymptomatic for 1 year after the demonstration of seropositivity for human immunodeficiency virus and high serum immunoglobulin G toxoplasma titers. Computed tomographic scanning showed multiple rounded cerebral hemorrhages and massive cerebral edema. Postmortem examination disclosed Toxoplasma gondii cysts scattered throughout the brain. An overwhelming fatal toxoplasmosis associated with multiple cerebral hemorrhages may be the first presentation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We raise the possibility that frequent neuroradiological monitoring may be indicated in asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with high immunoglobulin G toxoplasma titers. 
Inhibitory effect of interleukin-4 on the in vitro growth of Ph1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. We investigated the effect of recombinant human interleukin-4 (rhIL-4) on the in vitro growth of human leukemia cells in liquid culture and 3H-thymidine incorporation and found inhibitory effects on the growth of leukemic cells from patients with Ph1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph1 ALL) and three Ph1 ALL cell lines. However, no inhibitory effects were seen in Ph1-positive leukemic cell lines derived from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis and various types of Ph1-negative leukemia cells, including B-lineage leukemia cells. In a flow cytometry assay of IL-4 receptor (IL-4R), all three Ph1-positive ALL cell lines showed the presence of IL-4R on their cell surfaces, and the IL-4-dependent inhibition on the growth of Ph1-positive ALL cells was abrogated by the addition of either monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies against rhIL-4. Other cytokines, including IL-2, IL-3, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF), granulocyte-CSF, and IL-6, showed no inhibitory effects on the growth of Ph1-ALL cells, but tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon (IFN)-alpha, -beta, and -gamma displayed slight inhibitory effects in a high concentration. The growth inhibition induced by rhIL-4 in the Ph1-positive ALL cells was not abrogated by the addition of antibodies against either IFN-gamma or TNF-alpha. Furthermore, these cells showed no significant production of IFN-alpha, -beta, or -gamma or TNF-alpha after exposure to rhIL-4, thus indicating that the growth inhibition of Ph1-positive ALL cells by rhIL-4 is not associated with IL-4-stimulating production of these factors. rhIL-4 caused significant inhibition of the tyrosine kinase activity in these Ph1-positive ALL cells, similar to Herbimycin A, an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase that inhibited the tyrosine kinase activity in these cells. Our finding suggests that the clinical evaluation of rhIL-4 may offer promising therapeutic possibilities for patients with Ph1-positive ALL. 
A myocutaneous flap for closure of upper arm amputations for uncontrolled axillary tumors. Tumor spread or recurrence in the axilla is usually treated with nodal dissections. At times disease recurrence is uncontrolled, causing significant morbidity including pain, bleeding, lymphedema, and neurologic symptoms. Previously, forequarter amputation has been the treatment for this problem, resulting in a significant cosmetic and functional deficit. This report describes a novel myocutaneous flap that can be used to cover soft tissue defects after major disarticulations of the upper extremity. The deltoid myocutaneous flap has been used to successfully treat three patients with uncontrolled tumors in the axilla and preserve the shoulder structures to lessen the functional deficit. 
Realistic expectations for the patient with intermittent claudication. To determine the natural history of intermittent claudication 112 patients were followed for a minimum of 5 years and a median period of 82 months. Thirty-seven patients (33 per cent) died during the study period. Myocardial infarction (44 per cent) and cerebrovascular disease (28 per cent) were the most common causes of death. Overall mortality rate was 8, 23 and 40 per cent, at 2, 5 and 8 years respectively. Initial ankle-brachial pressure index (ABPI) correlated with subsequent death. With an initial ABPI less than 0.5 death occurred in 20, 50 and 69 per cent at 2, 5 and 7 years respectively, compared with 5, 16 and 24 per cent respectively for those with an initial ABPI greater than or equal to 0.5 (P less than 0.0001). Of the survivors only 21 per cent had worsening claudication and 13 per cent progressed to critical ischaemia. Arterial bypass for limb salvage was required in eight patients and four limbs were lost during the study period. ABPI identifies a subgroup of claudicants with an extremely high risk of death from coronary and/or cerebral pathology. In this subgroup an aggressive approach to the correction of atherosclerotic risk factors, rather than emphasis on the peripheral vascular problem alone, may improve survival. 
Direct correlation of cytogenetic findings with cell morphology using in situ hybridization: an analysis of suspicious cells in bone marrow specimens of two patients completing therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Bone marrow cells from two pediatric patients completing therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia were studied using in situ hybridization with an alpha-satellite DNA probe specific for chromosome 17. Morphologic analysis of the end-therapy specimens from each patient had shown small numbers (7.5%, 8.5%) of cells that were suspicious for residual or recurrent disease. These cells could not be morphologically or immunophenotypically distinguished with certainty from immature lymphoid cells (hematogones), which may be present normally, sometimes in increased numbers, in the bone marrow specimens of children. In situ hybridization with a probe to chromosome 17 was used because the leukemic cells from each patient had originally been shown to have an extra copy of this chromosome. In one patient, in situ studies showed a population of cells (106 of 1,000 cells) with three hybridization signals indicating trisomy 17, and thus residual/recurrent leukemia. In the other patient trisomy 17 could not be detected. Additional hybridizations to previously stained bone marrow aspirate smears permitted a direct correlation of the cytogenetic findings with the suspicious cells on a cell-to-cell basis. The questionable cells were identified, photographed, and then re-examined after hybridization. In one patient, 13 of 18 (72%) of the suspicious cells were found to have trisomy 17, whereas in the other patient 0 of 24 (0%) demonstrated an extra copy of this chromosome. These cases illustrate a clinical application of interphase cytogenetic analysis and demonstrate how this technology can be used for direct correlation of cytogenetic findings with cell morphology. This technique should prove useful for the detection of minimal residual disease and for lineage studies in leukemia and myelodysplasia. 
Relations between heart rate, ischemia, and drug therapy during daily life in patients with coronary artery disease. BACKGROUND. Previous studies have shown that little if any increase in heart rate occurs 1 minute before the onset of ischemia in ambulant patients with coronary artery disease. This study tested the hypothesis that there are characteristic relations between heart rate and ischemia in ambulant patients with coronary artery disease. METHODS AND RESULTS. Twenty-one patients with proven coronary disease demonstrated 212 episodes of ischemia during 504 hours of continuous monitoring of the electrocardiogram. An important increase in heart rate (from 74 +/- 11 to 90 +/- 14 beats/min, p less than 0.001) occurred between 5 and 30 minutes (not 1 minute) before the onset of ischemia. A significantly higher heart rate at onset of ischemia was seen during Bruce protocol exercise testing than during daily life (117 +/- 12 versus 95 +/- 15 beats/min, p less than 0.01). However, when a less-strenuous, but more prolonged, exercise protocol was used in a subgroup of patients (n = 12), ischemia occurred at a heart rate that was significantly lower than during the Bruce protocol (88 +/- 14 versus 103 +/- 15 beats/min, p less than 0.05) and was not significantly different from the threshold heart rate at onset of ischemia during daily life (88 +/- 14 versus 84 +/- 12 beats/min, p = NS). As part of two placebo-controlled trials, treatment with both propranolol and nitroglycerin altered the distribution of ischemic events by heart rate but in opposite directions. Although propranolol largely eliminated events occurring at high (greater than 100 beats/min) and moderate (80-100 beats/min) heart rates, the number of events at low (less than 80 beats/min) heart rates was increased. In contrast, nitroglycerin reduced episodes at low and moderate heart rates only. CONCLUSIONS. Important increases in heart rate occur before the onset of ischemia during daily life, but this increase occurs much earlier than has been reported. Duration of heart rate increase appears to influence the heart rate threshold for ischemia, and this may contribute to the occurrence of ischemia at lower heart rates during daily life than during standard exercise testing. Last, different classes of drugs appear to have characteristic effects on ischemia occurring at different heart rates that may be useful in planning therapy. 
The "ultraperipheral" revascularization in arteriosclerotic obstruction of tibial vessels. Experimental study. In arteriosclerotic obstruction of the main tibial arteries, the tibial collateral vessels are usually patent, and about 70% of these arteries are potentially suitable for surgical revascularization. The present study aimed at investigating the practical feasibility of a selective revascularization procedure on these tibial muscular arteries (ultraperipheral revascularization). Six lower limbs amputated at thigh level for arteriosclerotic gangrene with complete obstruction of the main tibial arteries, were studied: the tibial collateral muscular vessels showed patency in 65% of cases. The authors propose a surgical technique for the revascularization of these peripheral vessels with the use of a vascular prosthesis. The "post-operative" angiographic studies showed that revascularization of these peripheral muscular arteries was possible. 
Hemangiomas and vascular malformations. Vascular lesions in the neonate and infant are categorized as hemangiomas or malformations. Although their appearances may be similar, the pathobiology, natural history, and prognosis of these lesions are different. Selected important syndromes that are characterized as hemangiomas and vascular malformations are discussed, and an update on what is new in treatment, including laser therapy, is presented. 
Increased prevalence of hereditary metabolic diseases among native Indians in Manitoba and northwestern Ontario. OBJECTIVE: To compare the prevalence of hereditary metabolic diseases in the native and non-native populations of Manitoba and northwestern Ontario. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis. SETTING: Children's Hospital, Winnipeg. PATIENTS: Patients were selected by three methods: laboratory tests designed to screen patients suspected of having a metabolic disease, laboratory investigation of newborn infants with abnormalities detected through screening, and investigation of near relatives of probands with disease. RESULTS: A total of 138 patients with organic acid, amino acid and carbohydrate disorders were seen from 1960 to 1990. Of these, 49 (36%) were native Indians (Algonkian linguistic group). This was in sharp contrast to the proportion of native Indians in the total study population (5.8%). Congenital lactic acidosis due to pyruvate carboxylase deficiency (13 patients), glutaric aciduria type I (14 patients) and primary hyperoxaluria type II (8 patients) were the most common disorders detected. Other rare disorders included glutaric aciduria type II (one patient), 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (one patient) and sarcosinemia (one patient). Underreporting, especially of glutaric aciduria type I and hyperoxaluria type II, was likely in the native population. CONCLUSIONS: Hereditary metabolic diseases are greatly overrepresented in the native population of Manitoba and northwestern Ontario. We recommend that native children who present with illnesses involving disturbances of acid-base balance or with neurologic, renal or liver disease of unknown cause by investigated for a possible metabolic disorder. 
Plasma catecholamine levels in cyclic antidepressant overdose. Cyclic antidepressant overdose is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in self-poisoned patients. The major cause of mortality with cyclic antidepressant overdose is cardiotoxicity. We determined plasma catecholamine levels in 41 symptomatic acute overdose patients to identify interactions between QRS duration (a marker for cardiotoxicity) and a presumed hyper-adrenergic state. Using a linear multivariable regression analysis, QRS duration correlated with the presence of cyclic antidepressant, plasma norepinephrine levels, the ratio of norepinephrine to epinephrine level, and pulse rate (p less than 0.001, r2 = 0.42). Commensurate physiologic changes were not found in the presence of elevated catecholamine levels in the cyclic antidepressant overdose group. One possible explanation for the blunted systemic response to the elevated catecholamine levels is adrenergic desensitization. Investigation of serial catecholamine levels during cyclic antidepressant overdose may lead to modification of our current theories of cardiotoxicity and therapy. 
Diastolic time in diabetes. Impairment of diastolic time during dynamic exercise in type 2 diabetes with retinopathy. To evaluate the effect of microangiopathic complications and autonomic dysfunction on diastolic time (DT) during dynamic exercise, 19 patients with type 2 diabetes and ten normal subjects were studied using ear densitography. All subjects had neither an ischemic electrocardiographic response nor chest pain during maximal treadmill exercise. The DT and heart rate (HR) had an inverse nonlinear relation, and electromechanical systole (QS2) and HR had an inverse linear relation during exercise. When the exercise DT-HR and QS2-HR relations were compared, a significant lengthening of QS2, with a consequent shortening of DT, was observed in diabetic patients with retinopathy, compared to patients without retinopathy and normal subjects (p less than 0.005), while no significant differences were found between diabetic patients without retinopathy and normal subjects; however, there were no significant differences in the exercise DT-HR and QS2-HR relations among diabetic patients with and without autonomic dysfunction and normal subjects. A more prominent abbreviation in the diastolic perfusion time observed in patients with retinopathy would be meaningful because microangiopathy might already have limited subendocardial blood flow. Thus, patients with type 2 diabetes who have retinopathy have a potential risk of aggravation of left ventricular function through the deterioration of myocardial blood flow. 
The effects of cyclobenzaprine on sleep physiology and symptoms in patients with fibromyalgia. A double blind, placebo controlled, crossover design study examined overnight sleep physiology, pain, fatigue, and mood symptoms in 12 patients with fibromyalgia treated with cyclobenzaprine. Nine patients completed the study. Patients receiving cyclobenzaprine showed a decrease in evening fatigue (F = 4.7, p less than 0.05) and an increase in total sleep time (F = 4.4, p less than 0.05). Pain, including tender point count and dolorimetry, mood ratings, and alpha non-REM EEG sleep anomaly were unchanged by cyclobenzaprine. 
Mediastinal nodal involvement and the prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer. We evaluated the effect of mediastinal lymph node metastasis on survival in 233 non-small cell lung cancer patients (N2 disease in 199 patients and N3 disease in 34 patients). Of the 199 patients with N2 disease, 144 underwent curative resection. The five-year survival rate of these 144 patients was 20.3 percent, which was significantly better than that of either the noncuratively resected N2 group or the N3 group. Nodal metastases in the curatively resected patients involved superior and inferior mediastinum irrespective of the location of the primary tumor. Patients with right-sided N2 lesions and metastases to the superior mediastinum had a worse survival than those with metastases to the inferior mediastinum. In contrast, patients with left-sided N2 lesions metastasizing to the inferior mediastinum had a significantly worse survival than those with lesions metastasizing to the superior mediastinum. Patients with single-level metastases had a significantly better survival rate than those with multilevel metastases. Subcarinal nodal involvement had an unfavorable effect in case of single-level metastasis, but did not affect the survival in cases of multilevel metastases. Our present study indicated that the survival of patients with N2 disease was affected by the operative radicality, by the number of levels of metastases, and also by the location of the nodal involvement. It seems appropriate that extensive mediastinal dissection should be performed irrespective of the location of the primary tumor. 
Expression of a partially deleted gene of human type II procollagen (COL2A1) in transgenic mice produces a chondrodysplasia. A minigene version of the human gene for type II procollagen (COL2A1) was prepared that lacked a large central region containing 12 of the 52 exons and therefore 291 of the 1523 codons of the gene. The construct was modeled after sporadic in-frame deletions of collagen genes that cause synthesis of shortened pro alpha chains that associate with normal pro alpha chains and thereby cause degradation of the shortened and normal pro alpha chains through a process called procollagen suicide. The gene construct was used to prepare five lines of transgenic mice expressing the minigene. A large proportion of the mice expressing the minigene developed a phenotype of a chondrodysplasia with dwarfism, short and thick limbs, a short snout, a cranial bulge, a cleft palate, and delayed mineralization of bone. A number of mice died shortly after birth. Microscopic examination of cartilage revealed decreased density and organization of collagen fibrils. In cultured chondrocytes from the transgenic mice, the minigene was expressed as shortened pro alpha 1(II) chains that were disulfide-linked to normal mouse pro alpha 1(II) chains. Therefore, the phenotype is probably explained by depletion of the endogenous mouse type II procollagen through the phenomenon of procollagen suicide. 
Submaximal exercise thallium-201 SPECT for assessment of interventional therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Submaximal thallium-201 stress testing has been shown to provide important diagnostic and prognostic information in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the diagnostic value of early submaximal stress testing and thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) after interventional therapy. Scintigraphic results from 56 patients with infarctions, who underwent acute thrombolytic therapy, angioplasty, or both, were compared with late (6 weeks) functional outcome as assessed by radionuclide ventriculography and with results of discharge coronary angiography. A linear correlation was found between the extent of thallium-201 SPECT perfusion defect and late ventricular function (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01). Forty-two percent of patients with large SPECT perfusion defects had normal left ventricular ejection fractions, suggesting an overestimation of infarct size by early imaging. Sensitivity and specificity of thallium-201 SPECT for detection of coronary artery stenosis in noninfarct territories was 57% and 46%, respectively, indicating limited diagnostic definition of extent of underlying coronary artery disease. Results of follow-up coronary angiography showed a significant relationship between the size of the initial perfusion defect and early restenosis or reocclusion of the infarct artery. Thus the extent of early thallium-201 perfusion defects correlates with late functional outcome but appears to overestimate the degree of injury. Submaximal thallium-201 stress testing allows only limited characterization of underlying coronary artery disease. Early assessment of infarct size may identify a patient population at high risk for reocclusion of the infarct artery. 
Evaluation and treatment of blunt renal trauma. We examined retrospectively the records of 126 patients with blunt renal trauma to determine the criteria for radiological investigations and the imaging study of choice. Of the 3,993 patients admitted to our regional trauma unit during the last 13 years 126 (3.1%) had blunt renal trauma. Mean patient age was 32 years (range 13 to 87 years) and the male-to-female ratio was 3:1. Mean followup was 7 months (median 4 months). Of the patients 72% had a minor renal injury, 17% had a moderate injury and 11% had a major renal injury. Treatment was conservative in 114 patients, while 9 underwent a genitourinary operation. Results were excellent in 87% of the patients and good in 8%, while 5% failed treatment. All patients who had microscopic hematuria without shock had minor injuries. Excretory urograms (IVPs) were normal in 74% and 39% of the patients when performed for minor and moderate renal injuries, respectively. Computerized tomography (CT) was abnormal in all cases when performed, and was more sensitive and specific than an IVP. Therefore, the majority of patients with blunt renal trauma can be treated conservatively with an excellent result. Furthermore, radiological investigations are not needed in those with microscopic hematuria and no shock. When radiological investigations are indicated a CT scan is the imaging study of choice. 
Role of high total protein in gallbladder bile in the formation of cholesterol gallstones. While it is generally accepted that cholesterol supersaturation of bile is of key importance in the rapid formation of cholesterol crystals, the role of total biliary protein and pH in the pathogenesis of cholesterol gallstones is less well understood. The relation of cholesterol saturation, total protein, and pH was studied in 73 gallbladder bile samples with and 35 gallbladder bile samples without cholesterol crystals. In samples containing crystals, a trend to higher values of cholesterol and to a higher cholesterol saturation index was observed. However, significantly (P = 0.02) higher concentrations of total protein were found in samples with crystals [0.80 +/- 0.40 g/dL (8.0 +/- 4.0 g/L)] than in samples without crystals [0.63 +/- 0.26 g/dL (6.3 +/- 2.6 g/L)]. Moreover, of 22 bile samples with total protein concentrations greater than 10.0 g/L, cholesterol crystals were detected in all but 2. Total lipids, bile acids, phospholipids, and pH values were not significantly different in the two groups of bile samples. It was concluded that high biliary protein concentrations are frequently associated with cholesterol crystals and may, therefore, be a possible risk factor in the pathogenesis of cholesterol gallstones. 
In vivo measurements of relative motion between an uncemented femoral total hip component and the femur by roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis. Roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis (RSA) was used to study rotation and subsidence of an uncemented polyethylene-coated femoral component for total hip arthroplasty in ten patients younger than 55 years of age. Three years postoperatively, the total subsidence averaged 2.44 mm and the internal rotation was 7.4 degrees. The rate of subsidence decreased between the observation periods, whereas the rate of rotation, after an initial significant decrease, became almost constant. One patient, who was a clinical failure and required revision arthroplasty, had a significantly higher rate of migration after six months. The pattern of subsidence in the absence of pain might be the normal reaction of bone to an uncemented prosthesis, but the continuing rotation suggests the potential for failure of the arthroplasty. The type of analysis made possible in RSA may allow early prediction of the success of arthroplasties and significantly speed the design cycle for arthroplasty components. 
Desmoplastic fibroma of the maxillary sinus. Report of a case and review of the literature. A desmoplastic fibroma of the maxillary sinus is reported in a 15-year-old boy. Desmoplastic fibroma is a rare benign tumor in the maxillofacial region. The features of this case and of 49 previously described lesions are analyzed and discussed. 
Aortoiliac surgery in renal transplant patients. Fifteen patients who had undergone renal transplantation 3 months to 25 years earlier were operated on for treatment of complicated aortoiliac atherosclerosis; eight had aneurysms and seven had stenotic or obstructive lesions. Except for the first patient, operated on in 1973, in whom the kidney was protected by general hypothermia, no special measure was used to protect the kidneys. A transient increase in creatinemia occurred in 11 patients during the postoperative period, whereas creatinine values remained unchanged in the other four. All patients had regained renal function identical to the + preoperative state in less than 10 days; three of them had significant improvement as a result of correction of a lesion that was impairing renal blood flow. Results obtained in this series show that protection of the transplant during aortic surgery is not necessary, provided an adequate surgical technique is used. This technique avoids the complex methods employed in the majority of previously reported cases and appears to be a safe procedure. 
Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma of minor salivary gland. A comparative histologic and immunohistochemical study. Sixteen polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinomas were reviewed and compared with 17 adenoid cystic carcinomas and with 21 other histologically similar minor salivary gland neoplasms. The polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinomas were for the most part distinctive in their microscopic appearance. Typically they exhibited infiltrative growth by small uniform cells in single-layered ducts. A syncytium of tumor cells was also characteristic, although solid and cribriform patterns were seen, making definitive diagnosis difficult with some tumors. Immunohistochemical staining for S-100 protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, actin, vimentin, and keratins resulted in relatively distinctive antigenic profiles for the tumors studied. Of significance was strong S-100 protein and weak actin staining of polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinomas, moderate actin staining of adenoid cystic carcinomas, moderate glial fibrillary acidic protein staining of monomorphic adenomas and pleomorphic adenomas, and nonreactivity of monomorphic adenomas for vimentin. It is believed that the immunoprofiles could be useful in the microscopic diagnosis of salivary gland tumors. The identification of antigens found normally in myoepithelial and epithelial cells supports the concept that these tumors are derived from pluripotential reserve cells. 
Left ventricular mass index and diastolic filling. Relation to blood pressure and demographic variables in a healthy biracial sample. The relationships of left ventricular (LV) structure and diastolic filling to ambulatory blood pressure, race, age, and gender were studied in 104 young, generally healthy, untreated subjects with normal or marginally elevated blood pressure. Average daytime systolic blood pressure (r = 0.41, P less than .001), diastolic blood pressure (r = 0.38, P less than .001), male gender (r = 0.49, P less than .001), and age (r = 0.32, P less than .001) were univariate correlates of LV mass index as measured by M-mode echocardiography. In a stepwise multiple regression model, male gender, age, and systolic blood pressure were independent predictors of LV mass index. LV filling rate normalized to mitral stroke volume, a Doppler-derived index of diastolic filling, was inversely related to age (r = -0.47, P less than .001), heart rate (r = -0.27, P less than .01), LV mass index (r = -0.32, P less than .001), and diastolic blood pressure (r = -0.20, P less than .05). Age, heart rate, and LV mass index were predictors of normalized peak filling in a stepwise regression model. Race was not significantly related to either LV mass index or diastolic filling. Our results confirm the importance of demographic variables as well as blood pressure in determining LV mass and filling characteristics in humans prior to the development of sustained essential hypertension. These variables contribute to ventricular mass and diastolic function in varying degrees. Gender is strongly correlated with LV mass, but not with filling indices. 
Delays in the discharge of elderly patients. This paper reports a prospective study of the incidence and magnitude of delays in the discharge of 80 elderly (65+ years old) patients admitted to two general medical services in teaching hospitals in Edmonton, Alberta. The average length of stay was 16.6 days. Discharges were delayed in 14% (11/80) patients, accounting for 21% of the total days stay. Patients whose discharge was delayed tended to be older, to have delirium and/or dementia, to more often come from or require transfer to long term care (LTC) institutions, and/or to be dependent in essential activities of daily living. The 4-Score, an index for predicting non-medical days, was useful in identifying patients at risk for delays in discharge, and had a sensitivity of 0.82, and a specificity of 0.90. Interventions to reduce delays in discharge must address the frail nature of the patients, their lack of support and existing administrative relationships with LTC institutions. Acute care hospitals will likely need to undertake formal programs for the long term care of many of these patients. 
Videoendoscopic evaluation of patients with dysphagia: an adjunct to the modified barium swallow. The modified barium swallow is currently the most comprehensive, widely available, and easily interpreted technique for the evaluation of patients with dysphagia by the head and neck surgeon. However, it requires the facilities, personnel, and use of a radiology suite, a trained speech pathologist, and exposure of the patient to radiation. It would therefore be helpful to have an adjunctive, physician based, nonradiographic method of examination that could provide information similar to and possibly even more complete than that supplied by the modified barium swallow. Such an adjunctive method could help otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeons confronted by a new patient with swallowing difficulties to orient themselves to the nature and severity of the problem while waiting for the modified barium swallow to be scheduled, performed, and reviewed. It could also be a helpful tool for management of patients with cancer of the head and neck, whose swallowing function may change rapidly in the early postoperative period. In such cases, intervals between modified barium swallow examinations (dictated by concern over radiation exposure) may be too far apart to allow up-to-the-minute decisions on case management. Finally, some patients who may be too ill to travel to the radiology suite might benefit from a bedside procedure that would yield information about swallowing function similar to that provided by the modified barium swallow. Videoendoscopic evaluation of dysphagia (VEED) is a protocol I developed and have used regularly since 1984. Experience with this method of dysphagia evaluation has shown that it answers the needs outlined above. Its usefulness also goes beyond that of the modified barium swallow by providing a more detailed understanding of the component anatomic and functional deficits that comprise a given patient's swallowing problem, information about upper aerodigestive tract sensory deficits, and a means for visual feedback training of pharyngeal and laryngeal musculature. The protocol is reviewed here. Case reports illustrating the clinical usefulness of VEED as an adjunct to the modified barium swallow are also presented, and the relative strengths and weaknesses of VEED and the modified barium swallow are compared. 
Which pH threshold is best in esophageal pH monitoring? Two questions were examined, namely, 1) whether pH 4 is really the optimal threshold for the definition of acid gastroesophageal reflux, and 2) to what extent shifting of the upper limits of normal affects sensitivity and specificity of 24-h pH monitoring. To answer these questions, we studied 74 patients with proven reflux disease and 37 asymptomatic volunteers, using ambulatory 24-h esophageal pH monitoring. Gastroesophageal reflux was defined as episodes with esophageal pH of less than the threshold values 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, or 5.0, respectively. For each of these pH thresholds, the percentage time with esophageal pH below the threshold was calculated separately for periods of upright and supine body position. Two-dimensional receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to define upper limits of normal. A maximum of sensitivity, specificity, and rate of correct decisions (all 89%) was obtained using pH 4 for the definition of gastroesophageal reflux, although other pH thresholds were not much worse. On the basis of pH 4, the upper limits of normal could be shifted around the "optimal upper limit of normal" within a certain limit without considerable loss of accuracy of pH monitoring. This may explain the divergences between upper limits of normal obtained by different laboratories. In conclusion, 1) the threshold pH 4 should further be used for the definition of acid gastroesophageal reflux, and, 2) within certain limits, shifting of the upper limits of normal has little effect on the accuracy of pH monitoring in gastroesophageal reflux disease. 
Genetic control of susceptibility to diethylnitrosamine and dimethylbenzanthracene carcinogenesis in rats. The susceptibility to cancer induction after a single dose of diethylnitrosamine in male rats and a single dose of dimethylbenzanthracene in female rats was examined in the grc- strain R16 and the grc+ strain ACP, both of which have the same major histocompatibility complex genes but differ in the grc region. No tumor-promoting regimens were used, and the animals were fed only laboratory chou. The R16 males developed liver cancer and the R16 females developed breast cancer, there also were malignancies in other organs in some animals. By contrast, the ACP males did not develop any malignancies, and the ACP females had a significantly lower prevalence of malignant tumors. Thus the susceptibility to cancer in these two strains of rats has a genetic basis associated with genes in the grc region, and is independent of the carcinogen used, the action of a promoter, and the sex of the animals. 
Deletion of the entire cytochrome P450 CYP2D6 gene as a cause of impaired drug metabolism in poor metabolizers of the debrisoquine/sparteine polymorphism. The debrisoquine/sparteine polymorphism is associated with a clinically important genetic deficiency of oxidative drug metabolism. From 5% to 10% of Caucasians designated as poor metabolizers (PMs) of the debrisoquine/sparteine polymorphism have a severely impaired capacity to metabolize more than 25 therapeutically used drugs. The impaired drug metabolism in PMs is due to the absence of cytochrome P450IID6 protein. The gene controlling the P450IID6 protein, CYP2D6, is located on the long arm of chromosome 22. A pseudogene CYP2D8P and a related gene CYP2D7 are located upstream from CYP2D6. This gene locus is highly polymorphic. After digestion of genomic DNA with XbaI endonuclease, restriction fragments of 11.5 kb and 44 kb represent mutant alleles of the cytochrome CYP2D6 gene locus associated with the PM phenotype. In order to elucidate the molecular mechanism of the mutant allele reflected by the XbaI 11.5-kb fragment, a genomic library was constructed from leukocyte DNA of one individual homozygous for this fragment and screened with the human IID6 cDNA. The CYP2D genes were isolated and characterized by restriction mapping and partial sequencing. We demonstrate that the mutant 11.5-kb allele results from a deletion involving the entire functional CYP2D6 gene. This result provides an explanation for the total absence of P450IID6 protein in the liver of these PMs. 
Subclinical peripheral nerve involvement in AIDS: an electrophysiological and pathological study. Thirty patients with AIDS without symptoms or signs of peripheral neuropathy were compared electrophysiologically with 23 age and sex matched healthy controls. The patients had a mean reduction in the amplitude of common peroneal compound muscle action potentials of 37% (95% CI 11-70%) and of sural sensory action potentials of 34% (CI 18-49%). Mean conduction velocity of both motor and sensory nerves was reduced by between 1 and 7 m/s, with a prolongation of F waves corrected for height of 5% in the arms and 13% in the legs. The distal motor latencies were unchanged. These changes did not correlate with the duration of AIDS, degree of immunosuppression (CD4 count), Body Mass Index, albumin or vitamin B12 level. Four patients had subclinical mononeuropathies. Sural nerve taken at necropsy from five asymptomatic AIDS patients had evidence of axonal degeneration without inflammation or demyelination. There was a mean reduction in myelinated fibre density of 30.5% (CI 10-51%) compared with eight age matched sudden death controls (p = 0.01). This loss principally affected the larger fibres. The pathological and electrophysiological changes indicate axonal degeneration and are similar to those seen in other chronic disorders and in normal ageing. It is concluded that this axonal degeneration is not specific to HIV. 
Primary progressive aphasia with focal neuronal achromasia. We describe the clinical, radiologic, neuropsychological, and neuropathologic features of a 69-year-old man with a 3-year history of progressive transcortical expressive aphasia. Neuropsychological testing showed progressive dysfunction of expressive language. Neuropathologic examination demonstrated focal cortical degeneration involving the left superior frontal gyrus, with swollen achromasic neurons and no evidence of Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, Lewybody disease, or other dementing disorders. This case adds to the known heterogeneity of the underlying pathology of patients with primary progressive aphasia. 
Pericardial cyst with partial erosion of the right ventricular wall. A case of pericardial cyst with partial erosion into the anterior wall of the right ventricle is presented. Cardiopulmonary bypass was necessary for excision of the cyst. This report helps to alert surgeons of the possible need for cardiopulmonary bypass during the removal of some pericardial cysts, especially in patients with signs and symptoms of infection and in whom preoperative imaging fails to show distinct margins between the cyst and cardiac structures. 
Splenosis: an unusual cause of intraabdominal hemorrhage. A 31-year-old female presented to the emergency department with an acute onset of severe abdominal pain. She developed hypovolemic shock from an intra-abdominal bleed. At laparotomy she was found to be bleeding from two areas of splenosis on the uterine ligament. The patient had sustained a ruptured spleen 22 years prior and had no symptomatology from her areas of splenosis. A short review of splenosis is presented. 
Alterations in influence of granuloma-derived cytokines on fibrogenesis in the course of murine Schistosoma mansoni infection. Schistosomiasis is the main cause of hepatic fibrosis worldwide, yet its pathogenesis remains unknown. We previously reported that conditioned medium from cultures of hepatic egg granulomas (isolated from mice acutely infected with Schistosoma mansoni) can stimulate fibroblast proliferation and matrix production in vitro. We have proposed that initiation of hepatic fibrosis in this infection might be under the control of granuloma-derived cytokines. We now report that conditioned medium from cultures of schistosomal egg granulomas isolated from liver of chronically infected mice has reduced fibrogenic activity compared with medium from cultures of granulomas obtained from more acutely infected mice. In related studies, we adoptively transferred splenocytes from infected mice and examined the fibrogenic activity in culture supernatants of hepatic egg granulomas isolated from the recipients. Those prepared from recipients of splenocytes from chronically infected mice contained substantially less fibrogenic activity than did those from recipients of splenocytes of acutely infected mice. These findings suggest that the fibrogenic influence of schistosomal egg granuloma products decreases during the course of chronic murine S. mansoni infection. Furthermore, our preliminary findings suggest that immunoregulatory cells may be responsible for the down-regulation of this influence. Previous observations indicating that in murine schistosomiasis hepatic collagen and hyaluronate synthesis and deposition are elevated in acute but not chronic infection might be explained on the basis of our observations. 
Genomic structure of the human prion protein gene. Creutzfeld-Jacob disease and Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome are rare degenerative disorders of the nervous system which have been genetically linked to the prion protein (PrP) gene. The PrP gene encodes a host glycoprotein of unknown function and is located on the short arm of chromosome 20, a region with few known genes or anonymous markers. The complete structure of the PrP gene in man has not been determined despite considerable interest in its relationship to these unusual disorders. We have determined that the human PrP gene has the same simple genomic structure seen in the hamster gene and consists of two exons and a single intron. In contrast to the hamster PrP gene the human gene appears to have a single major transcriptional start site. The region immediately 5' of the transcriptional start site of the human PrP gene demonstrates the GC-rich features commonly seen in housekeeping genes. Curiously, the genomic clone we have isolated contains a 24-bp deletion that removes one of five octameric peptide repeats predicted to form a B-pleated sheet in this region of the PrP. We have also identified 5' of the PrP gene an RFLP which has a high degree of heterozygosity and which should serve as a useful marker for the pter-12 region of human chromosome 20. 
Primary mucoid adenocarcinoma of the larynx. Mucous glands carcinomas of the larynx are rare, with most being represented by 'non-specific' adenocarcinoma and adenoid cystic carcinoma. Here we report a unique case of mucoid adenocarcinoma of the larynx occurring in a 46-year-old woman. Despite the presence of regional lymph node metastasis, she remained well four years after surgery. 
Platelet activating factor-induced shock and intestinal necrosis in the rat: role of endogenous platelet-activating factor and effect of saline infusion. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: The mechanism of ischemic bowel necrosis induced by platelet-activating factor is unclear. Since intestinal hypoperfusion is observed after platelet-activating factor injection, we hypothesized that mesenteric vasoconstriction is the mechanism of bowel injury. The present study investigated the effects of saline infusion on platelet activating factor-induced bowel necrosis and its mechanism. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: group A consisted of sham-operated rats; group B received platelet-activating factor (1.5 micrograms/kg iv); group C received platelet-activating factor and saline (0.097 mL/min iv); group D received platelet-activating factor and WEB 2086 (platelet-activating factor antagonist). RESULTS: Saline infusion largely reversed platelet activating factor-induced hypotension, hemoconcentration, and reduction of the superior mesenteric arterial blood flow. Saline infusion also ameliorated platelet activating factor-induced bowel injury, although a mild-to-moderate degree of necrosis still developed focally. In addition, saline prevented the platelet activating factor-induced increase in intestinal platelet-activating factor production. Saline also prevented the increase in intestine leukocyte number, as estimated by myeloperoxidase activity. CONCLUSIONS: Saline infusion is an effective treatment for platelet activating factor-induced shock and intestinal necrosis. However, focal bowel injury is still observed, suggesting that other factors besides hemodynamic changes contribute to the development of tissue injury. We also showed that, in vivo, platelet-activating factor stimulates its own synthesis via a positive feedback loop, which could be blocked by intravascular volume expansion with saline. 
Cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil with and without doxorubicin in the adjuvant treatment of resectable breast cancer with one to three positive axillary nodes. In the attempt to improve current adjuvant results in patients with one to three positive axillary lymph nodes, in November 1981 we activated a prospective randomized study to assess the effectiveness of intravenous (IV) cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) for 12 courses versus CMF for eight courses followed by Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Farmitalia Carlo Erba, Milan, Italy) for four courses. The 5-year results were evaluated in a total of 486 patients entered into the study up to December 1987. CMF chemotherapy was delivered IV for a total of 12 courses when given alone and for eight courses when followed by four courses of Adriamycin. All drugs were recycled every 3 weeks. Rather than temporarily reducing doses, drug administration was delayed for 1 to 2 weeks in the face of myelosuppression on the planned day of treatment. After a median follow-up of 61 months, no significant differences were evident between the treatment groups in terms of relapse-free (CMF 74% v CMF followed by Adriamycin 72%) and total survival (CMF 89% v CMF followed by Adriamycin 86%). Drug treatments were fairly well tolerated and devoid of life-threatening toxicity. Present results, which were not influenced by menopausal status, indicate that Adriamycin given after CMF failed to improve treatment outcome over CMF alone. However, the role of Adriamycin in an adjuvant setting remains to be further clarified. Considering the good 5-year results achieved in this study at the expense of minimal toxicity, full-dose CMF remains, at present, the adjuvant chemotherapy of choice for patients with one to three positive nodes. 
Neuroleptic drug use in the nursing home: the impact of OBRA. In 1990 the new OBRA legislation affecting nursing home care went into effect. This legislation and the regulations written to interpret it introduce specific rules concerning the use of neuroleptic medication in the care of nursing home residents. This article examines this legislation and the new regulations, and reviews neuroleptic drug use, including appropriate indications, side effects and prescribing guidelines. Physicians who care for nursing home patients should be familiar with the regulations. 
U74006F, a novel 21-aminosteroid, inhibits in vivo lipid peroxidation but fails to limit infarct size in a canine model of myocardial ischemia reperfusion. Peroxidation of membrane lipids has been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury. We therefore assessed the efficacy of U74006F, a potent in vitro vitamin E-like inhibitor of lipid peroxidation, in limiting infarct size in a canine model of transient coronary artery occlusion. Twenty dogs underwent 2 hours of occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and 6 hours of reperfusion. U74006F or saline solution was administered continuously from 1 hour of occlusion to the end of the experiment. U74006F blunted any increase in production of conjugated dienes (an index of lipid peroxidation) at both 30 minutes (1.73 +/- 0.16 mol/L x 10(-4) vs 2.62 +/- 0.22 in control dogs, p less than 0.05) and 6 hours (1.39 +/- 0.22 vs 2.06 +/- 0.18 in control dogs, p less than 0.05) after reperfusion. Furthermore, 6 hours after reflow vitamin E levels tended to be lower than baseline values in control dogs and higher than baseline values in dogs treated with U74006F. However, analysis of infarct size indicated no statistically significant difference between the two groups when expressed either as a percentage of the left ventricle (10.4 +/- 1.8% in U74006F vs 15.2 +/- 2.4% in control dogs) or as a percentage of the area at risk (33.0 +/- 5.5% in U74006F vs 37.8 +/- 4.5% in control dogs). Although U74006F appeared to be a potent in vivo inhibitor of lipid peroxidation, it failed to limit infarct size after 2 hours of occlusion and 6 hours of reperfusion in this canine model. 
Factors associated with poor visual outcome in acute retinal necrosis. We reviewed 22 consecutive patients (26 eyes) with acute retinal necrosis to elucidate whether there was any sign at an early stage to predict poor visual outcome. Final visual acuity of the patients fell into two groups, one worse than 20/600 (15 eyes) and the other better than 20/30 (11 eyes). The patients with poor visual outcome showed diffuse retinal arteritis or arterial obliteration which was associated with reduced amplitude of electroretinographic a and b waves and elevated levels of circulating immune complex, even at an early stage when retinal exudates were still localised to the peripheral fundus. The retinal exudates in these patients extended rapidly to the posterior pole. In contrast, the patients with good visual outcome showed retinal arteritis limited within retinal exudates throughout the course. These signs at an early stage can be used as prognostic factors to manage patients with acute retinal necrosis more constructively. 
Permissivity of primary cultures of human Kupffer cells for HIV-1. Kupffer cells (liver macrophages) represent the largest reservoir of fixed macrophages in the body. Accordingly, we have undertaken a study to evaluate their susceptibility to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Five-day-old primary cultures of Kupffer cells (KC) were infected with HIV-1, and as the infection progressed, syncytia appeared. Within the cells, viral proteins were detected by immunofluorescence using monoclonal antibodies directed against gp120 and p24. Electron microscopic examinations revealed the presence of typical Lentivirinae particles. The particles released from KC in the extracellular medium showed reverse transcriptase activity and p24 antigen; they could infect lymphocytic cells and were neutralized by a HIV+ patient's serum or an anti-gp120 monoclonal antibody. Our results thus demonstrate that the interaction of HIV-1 with KC in vitro leads to a productive infection. They suggest that the KC may be involved in the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection and may (i) participate in the transmission of the infection to the peripheral blood cells, (ii) play a role in the depletion of uninfected CD4+ cells. 
Envenomation by the puss caterpillar (Megalopyge opercularis). We discuss the case of a 52-year-old woman who developed urticarial lesions after the acute envenomation of a puss caterpillar (Megalopyge opercularis). The puss caterpillar, one of more than 50 species of caterpillars that can cause envenomation in the United States, is considered to be one of the most serious. Its clinical presentation and current recommended treatments are reviewed. 
Human atrial natriuretic factor and renin-aldosterone in paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure. It has been postulated that deficiency of a putative natriuretic factor, or resistance to such a factor, may contribute to sodium retention in fulminant hepatic failure. Levels of plasma human atrial natriuretic factor (h-ANF), plasma renin activity, and aldosterone concentration were measured in 33 patients with fulminant hepatic failure due to paracetamol overdose, and 12 healthy control subjects. Levels of h-ANF were raised only in patients with evidence of severe renal impairment (serum creatinine greater than 300 mumol/l and urine output less than 100 ml/24 hours). h-ANF values were median 4.15, range 2-9 pmol/l and 10.1, 1-25 pmol/l for the control and severe renal impairment groups respectively (p less than 0.001). In the latter plasma renin activity was raised compared to that in control subjects (median 19.8, range 1.04-41.7 and 2.86, 1.87-5.9 pmol/l/h respectively, p less than 0.02). Plasma aldosterone concentration was also raised in patients (2176, 199-6894 pmol/l compared to 368, 133-578 pmol/l in control subjects, p less than 0.01). Haemodialysis induced changes in circulating h-ANF which correlated with volume and right atrial pressure changes (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.05 respectively). In six patients with no or mild renal failure infusion of 900 ml 5% human albumin solution caused a significant increase in plasma h-ANF (p less than 0.05) without natriuresis or diuresis, a finding compatible with the hypothesis that there may be resistance to h-ANF in this group. The present findings indicate that there is no deficiency of h-ANF in fulminant hepatic failure and that known mechanisms of h-ANF release are not impaired. 
Endoscopic retrograde hemorrhoidal sclerotherapy using 23.4% saline: a preliminary report. Historically, injection sclerotherapy has had a prominent role in the treatment of symptomatic hemorrhoids. Concern over sclerosant-related morbidity and dissatisfaction with anoscopic injection techniques has limited the application of this modality in the United States. This study reports an initial evaluation of 23.4% saline, used as a nonallergenic sclerosant, in the flexible endoscopic treatment of symptomatic internal hemorrhoids. Initial results in 19 patients with symptomatic grade I, II, or III hemorrhoids suggest that the technique is very effective in relieving bleeding, and frequently alleviates prolapse as well. The technique has proven to be well tolerated and associated with high patient satisfaction and low complication rates, with no serious complications noted. This modality is eminently suited for single session examination and therapy of the patient undergoing endoscopic evaluation for lower gastrointestinal bleeding whose findings are limited to hemorrhoidal disease. 
Oral contraceptives and breast cancer. Cause and effect? Case-control studies dealing with breast cancer and oral contraceptives (OCs) were reviewed against a background of currently accepted rules for conducting and interpreting epidemiologic research. There is a strong consensus that OCs have not increased the risk of breast cancer in women over age 45, even when they have been used for long periods. The controversy is confined to studies of cancer diagnosed in young women. Although an effect of duration of OC use has been observed in some studies, there is neither a latency period nor an effect from recent or current use. There is no obvious relationship to the type of pill and no consistent effect of the dose of estrogen. The effect, if it exists at all, is not confined to any specific subgroup; it has not been related to age at starting OCs. It has been observed in only a few studies, some of which were subsequently discounted. Others have shown no effect or have suggested a reduced risk of breast cancer with increasing duration of use. None of the studies purporting to show an effect of OCs have controlled for the potential confounding effects of duration of lactation, induced abortion, recent pregnancy or a history of diseases that are associated both with reduced use of OCs and reduced risk of breast cancer. Most have inappropriately controlled for benign breast disease. There is an urgent need for a reanalysis of existing studies to take these factors into account. The lack of consistency and the potential for bias and confounding argue strongly against concluding, at this time, that there is a causal relationship between OCs and breast cancer. 
Prophylactic sclerotherapy for esophageal varices in men with alcoholic liver disease. A randomized, single-blind, multicenter clinical trial. The Veterans Affairs Cooperative Variceal Sclerotherapy Group. BACKGROUND. Sclerotherapy is an effective treatment for bleeding esophageal varices in patients with alcoholic liver disease. It has also been suggested that sclerotherapy might be effective in preventing initial episodes of bleeding and improving survival among such patients. METHODS. We conducted a prospective, randomized trial comparing prophylactic sclerotherapy and sham therapy in 281 men with alcoholic liver disease who had at least three variceal channels and no history of variceal bleeding. All the patients underwent endoscopy; 143 received sclerotherapy, and 138 received sham therapy. RESULTS. The two patient groups were well matched at entry with respect to the extent of liver disease and other clinical indexes, except that other medical illnesses were significantly more common in the sclerotherapy group. The study's data-monitoring board terminated the trial 22.5 months after it began because the rate of mortality from all causes was significantly higher in the sclerotherapy group (32.2 percent) than in the sham-therapy group (17.4 percent, P = 0.004), despite the fact that the men who received sclerotherapy had significantly fewer episodes of esophageal variceal bleeding. The causes of death varied, and there is no obvious explanation for the excess mortality in the sclerotherapy group. After the termination of treatment, the excess mortality rate in the sclerotherapy group promptly declined. There were 53 episodes of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (including 10 from esophageal varices and 9 from esophageal ulcers) in the sclerotherapy group and 40 episodes (including 19 from esophageal varices) in the sham-therapy group. Complications of sclerotherapy were frequent but seldom life-threatening. CONCLUSIONS. For unknown reasons, prophylactic sclerotherapy is associated with increased mortality among men with moderate-to-severe alcoholic liver disease and esophageal varices. Sclerotherapy should not be performed until after an initial episode of bleeding from esophageal varices has occurred. 
Increased treatment of hypertension does not explain the decline in stroke mortality in the United States, 1970-1980. The steady decline in mortality from stroke in the United States accelerated markedly in the 1970s. It has been widely assumed that an increase in the rate of treatment of hypertension is the most likely explanation for this major public health achievement. An analysis of available information, however, suggests that improvements in the community control of hypertension in the United States in the period 1970-1980 have contributed in only a minor way. There were 45,357 fewer deaths from stroke in 1980 among those aged 35-74 years than might have been expected if the death rates had stayed the same as in 1970. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Surveys indicate that six million more people received antihypertensive medication in 1980 than in 1970. Results from a pooled analysis of randomized controlled trials of the treatment of hypertension suggest that between 6% and 16% of the reduction in stroke mortality was due to the increased treatment of hypertension. Epidemiological observations indicate that between 16% and 25% of the overall decline in stroke mortality can be attributed to the treatment of hypertension, suggesting that clinical trials probably underestimate the community-wide benefits of treatment. These results also suggest that at least three quarters of the decline in stroke mortality in the United States in the period 1970-1980 is due to factors other than antihypertensive treatment. 
Adjuvant intraperitoneal chromic phosphate therapy for women with apparent early ovarian carcinoma who have not undergone comprehensive surgical staging. Forty-nine women with apparent Stage I and II ovarian carcinoma received intraperitoneal phosphate 32 as the only adjuvant therapy after primary surgery. In addition to bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, 40 (82%) had analysis of peritoneal cytology, and 35 (71%) underwent omentectomy. Random peritoneal biopsies and retroperitoneal lymph node sampling were not done in any of these patients. The overall and disease-free survival rates were 86% and 75%, respectively, with no significant differences by stage, histologic grade, histologic type, or low-risk versus high-risk subsets recognized in patients who received comprehensive surgical staging. Seven (58%) of 12 patients had lymph node metastasis as the first site of recurrence, including two of three with late recurrences. Significant morbidity related to intraperitoneal chromic phosphate (32P) occurred in one (2%) woman. These results emphasize the need for comprehensive surgical staging of women with apparent early ovarian carcinoma to aid in the selection of appropriate initial adjuvant therapy. 
An analysis of lymphocyte 3H-N-methyl-scopolamine binding in neurological patients. Evidence of altered binding in Alzheimer's disease. Muscarinic cholinergic receptors were analysed in lymphocyte membranes from 35 patients with early (n = 20) and late onset (n = 15) Alzheimer's disease (AD), 86 patients with other neurological disorders and 60 normal controls by the specific binding of 3H-N-methyl-scopolamine (3H-NMS). The number of binding sites of 3H-NMS (Bmax) was significantly decreased both in early and late onset AD groups as compared with age-matched controls, by 54% and 40%, respectively, whereas the apparent binding affinity (Kd) was the same in all disease and control groups. In addition, the average Bmax in early AD was significantly lower than in late AD. The density of the binding of 3H-NMS was also significantly lower in a subgroup of old subjects with Down's syndrome (DS), whereas no changes were found in younger individuals with DS or in patients with Parkinson's disease, whether they were demented or not, multi-infarct dementia, myasthenia gravis or epilepsy. In the AD group, the difference in binding sites was unrelated either to the severity of dementia or disease duration. Treatment of the patients with cholinergic agents did not alter the binding values in any of the examined group. We conclude that the alteration of lymphocyte muscarinic receptors is highly associated with AD, but whether this reflects the central cholinergic deficit in these patients is uncertain. 
Evaluation of the extracranial carotid arteries: correlation of magnetic resonance angiography, duplex ultrasonography, and conventional angiography. We compared duplex scanning, "bright blood" and "black blood" magnetic resonance angiography, and conventional angiography for evaluation of the extracranial carotid arteries. All three methods were applied to 39 vessels in 20 patients. Duplex scanning was inaccurate when compared to conventional angiography in six instances. In three instances the degree of stenosis was overgraded by the scanner, and in three cases the stenosis was undergraded. Magnetic resonance angiography was inaccurate when compared to conventional angiography in three instances. In all cases magnetic resonance angiography overgraded the degree of stenosis. By use of a greater than 70% stenosis as a positive study, the sensitivity of magnetic resonance angiography was 100% and the specificity 92%. With use of the same criteria, the sensitivity of duplex scanning was 86%, and specificity was 84%. In those evaluations where the results of the magnetic resonance angiography and duplex scanning were in agreement, the correlation with conventional angiography was 100%. We conclude that magnetic resonance angiography is an alternative means to duplex scanning for noninvasive carotid imaging. A combination of bright and black blood magnetic resonance angiography is precise in delineating lesions of the extracranial carotid artery and may ultimately eliminate the need for conventional angiography in the evaluation of carotid stenosis. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to superior mesenteric artery to duodenum fistula: rare complication of metastatic lung carcinoma. Although metastases from primary carcinoma of the lung to the small intestine appear to be more common than previously suspected, they rarely produce symptoms. Such metastases may present as bowel perforations. Overt gastrointestinal bleeding has been described only as a prelude to perforation. We describe the case of a 55-yr-old man with carcinoma of the lung that had metastasized to the brain and to the third part of the duodenum. The duodenal metastasis presented with massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The metastasis was seen to be actively bleeding at endoscopy, and a direct fistula from a branch of the superior mesenteric artery to the third part of the duodenum was shown angiographically. Arterial invasion and destruction by tumor was confirmed at postmortem examination. This complication of metastatic carcinoma of the lung has not been previously described in the English literature. 
Increased plasma levels and blunted effects of brain natriuretic peptide in rats with congestive heart failure. The hemodynamic and renal effects of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) were studied in conscious rats with experimental congestive heart failure (CHF) produced by an aortocaval fistula. The peptide had potent hypotensive, diuretic, and natriuretic effects in control rats, all of which were abolished in CHF. Plasma levels of BNP increased time-dependently during the development of CHF, and were more than four-fold higher in sodium retaining rats than in control rats. The data suggest that BNP secretion from the atria is increased in CHF, and that resistance to BNP, in addition to the relative resistance to atrial natriuretic factor, may contribute to sodium retention in CHF. 
Selective antibiotic prophylaxis in biliary tract operations. A prospective study of 397 patients with primary biliary operations performed for benign disease included a perioperative culture of the bile. Two main groups of patients in whom bacteria in the bile and, thus, probably increased risk postoperative infection was common, are patients undergoing emergency operation (60 per cent bacteria in the bile, as compared with 22 per cent in those with elective operations) and patients with a history of acute cholecystitis or pancreatitis, or both, or jaundice (49 per cent bacteria in the bile with a positive history as compared with 11 per cent without). The rate of infection was 2.8 per cent in high-risk groups, as compared with 0.6 per cent in patients undergoing elective operative procedures with no history of acute cholecystitis, pancreatitis or jaundice. Thus, antibiotics can probably be reserved for those patients who had emergency surgical treatment and for those with elective operations and a history of acute cholecystitis, pancreatitis or jaundice. In addition, antibiotic prophylaxis might be indicated for all patients who are 75 years of age or older, as bacteria in the bile seems to be common in this age group even without a history of the aforementioned complications. 
Effects of long-term enalapril therapy on cardiopulmonary exercise performance after myocardial infarction. BACKGROUND. The Enalapril Postinfarction Exercise (EPIE) trial was designed to study the effect of enalapril treatment on peak and submaximal cardiopulmonary exercise performance over the course of 1 year in men after myocardial infarction with mild exercise intolerance. METHODS AND RESULTS. One hundred sixty men with a peak VO2 less than 25 ml/kg/min and without effort angina were randomized to receive enalapril 20 mg qd or placebo on a double-blind basis. The mean age was 60.3 +/- 7.6 years. All patients received concurrent beta-blocker therapy for secondary prophylaxis. Treatment began at 21 days (group 1, n = 100) or more than 6 months after infarction (group 2, n = 60). Patients underwent exercise with real-time gas-exchange analysis nine times over the course of 48 weeks. In group 1, improvement in exercise performance occurred during the course of the trial in both groups of patients receiving placebo or enalapril. The mean peak VO2 for the placebo-treated patients in group 1 increased from 18.3 +/- 3.4 ml/kg/min by 4.9% at 48 weeks (p less than 0.05). The corresponding values for enalapril-treated patients were 18.9 +/- 3.8 ml/kg/min with a 3.7% increase (p = 0.07). Total exercise time increased in the placebo-treated patients from 645 +/- 96 seconds by 7.3% (p less than 0.01). Corresponding values for enalapril-treated patients were 674 +/- 103 seconds with a 5.4% increase (p less than 0.01). In group 2, the mean peak VO2 at baseline for the placebo-treated patients of 20.3 +/- 3.8 ml/kg/min increased by 4.4% at 48 weeks (p = NS). The corresponding values for enalapril-treated patients were 19.2 +/- 3.6 ml/kg/min with a 2.6% increase (p = NS). Total exercise time increased in the placebo-treated patients from 677 +/- 114 seconds by 0.7% (p = NS). Corresponding values for enalapril-treated patients were 659 +/- 99 seconds with a 1.1% increase (p = NS). There were no significant differences between the placebo and enalapril subgroups at any time with regard to peak VO2, exercise duration, or the VO2 at the anaerobic threshold. CONCLUSIONS. This trial demonstrates that long-term converting enzyme inhibition with enalapril had no significant effect on the peak or submaximal cardiopulmonary exercise performance over the course of 1 year in men after myocardial infarction with only mildly reduced exercise capacity. 
Spraying of aerosolized fibrin glue in the treatment of nonsuturable hemorrhage. In the present report, the authors describe the use of aerosolized fibrin glue (FG) to achieve hemostasis in patients with nonsuturable hemorrhage. The multicomponent FG was sprayed on bleeding tissues with a dual chamber spray head that allowed simultaneous application and mixing of fibrinogen and thrombin on the tissue surface. Sterile propellant gas was passed through tubing to the spray head and independently controlled, allowing for drying of the tissue surface immediately before FG application. This technique was found to be effective in achieving hemostasis of parenchymal organs, retroperitoneal surfaces, and skin graft donor sites. Additional potential applications of this technique include the control of hemorrhage from mediastinal and pleural surfaces. 
Randomized comparative trial of indomethacin and ritodrine for the long-term treatment of preterm labor. A randomized prospective trial was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of ritodrine and indomethacin in the long-term treatment of preterm labor. Forty patients with intact membranes in preterm labor at 23 to 34 weeks' gestation were randomized to receive either intravenous ritodrine or oral indomethacin as the first-line tocolytic agent. Successful intravenous ritodrine therapy was followed by oral terbutaline therapy, and indomethacin-treated patients continued to receive oral indomethacin. Treatment failures were defined as progressive preterm labor or patient intolerance, and these patients were treated with intravenous magnesium sulfate. Ritodrine and indomethacin were equally successful in delaying preterm birth as defined by interval to delivery, gestational age at delivery, delivery delayed greater than 7 days, attainment of 35 weeks of gestation, percentage of patients who required magnesium sulfate therapy, percentage of patients who were readmitted with premature rupture of membranes, absence of recurrent preterm labor, and infant birth weight. More than 80% of mothers who received ritodrine voiced complaints of beta-sympathomimetic side effects, and one patient discontinued treatment as the result of intolerance. There were minimal patient complaints with indomethacin use. No statistically significant differences were noted in neonatal outcome as defined by Apgar scores, umbilical cord pH, intensive care days, ventilator days, or neonatal deaths. However, three cases of primary pulmonary hypertension were observed in the indomethacin group. We had not previously observed this problem with short-term (24 to 48 hours) indomethacin therapy. 
Treatment for acute myelocytic leukemia with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation following preparation with BuCy2. One hundred twenty-seven patients with acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) were given busulfan 4 mg/kg on each of 4 days and cyclophosphamide 60 mg/kg on each of 2 days (BuCy2) followed by allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from an HLA-identical or one antigen disparate sibling. For 71 patients in first complete remission, 23 in second complete remission or initial relapse, and 33 patients with primary refractory disease, second or subsequent relapse, or a preceding hematologic disorder, the 3-year leukemia-free survival (LFS) is 63.1%, 32.6%, and 24.2% respectively. The actuarial probability of relapse for each group is 14.1%, 40.6%, and 61.0%. In multivariate analyses, relapse and decreased LFS were associated with advanced disease phase and with M4/M5 French-American-British classification. The LFS of first remission patients was adversely associated with a short time interval from diagnosis to transplantation. This study indicates that BuCy2 is an attractive preparative regimen for marrow transplantation in patients with AML and that prognostic factors for relapse and LFS are similar those described for regimens containing total body irradiation. 
Oxygen-induced hypercarbia in obstructive pulmonary disease. We investigated the mechanisms responsible for oxygen-induced hypercarbia in ventilator-dependent patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). To quantitate the effects of oxygen (O2) on respiratory drive, we determined the CO2 recruitment threshold (PCO2 RT) in 10 mechanically ventilated patients under normoxic (PaO2 = 67 +/- 7 mm Hg) and hyperoxic (PaO2 = 370 +/- 67 mm Hg) conditions. PCO2 RT is a measure of the CO2 responsiveness of the mechanically unloaded respiratory system and, as such, is independent of mechanical impedance and respiratory muscle strength. After O2 supplementation, PCO2 RT increased from 42 +/- 6 to 45 +/- 6 mm Hg (p less than or equal to 0.05), indicating a suppression of so-called hypoxic respiratory drive. The effect of hyperoxia on the dead space to tidal volume ratio (VD/VT) and CO2 elimination (VCO2) was studied in 6 patients. Measurements were made at identical ventilator settings, thus eliminating breathing pattern- and respiratory work-related effects on these variables. VD/VT rose from 0.49 +/- 0.09 to 0.55 +/- 0.06 (p less than or equal to 0.05), but VCO2 remained constant at 0.21 L/min. We discuss why measuring O2-induced changes in minute ventilation, VCO2, PaO2, and VD/VT in spontaneously breathing patients is insufficient to distinguish between gas exchange- and respiratory drive-related mechanisms for hypercarbia. Based on the O2-induced increase in PCO2 RT, we conclude that so-called suppression of hypoxic drive plays an important role in the pathogenesis of this disorder. 
Spontaneous favorable outcome of tracheal laceration. We present the case of a 57-year-old woman with a huge tracheal laceration after intubation. With simple supportive therapy, the laceration healed in ten days, and the patient made an uneventful recovery. At the three-month follow-up, no sequelae were observed. 
Study of belching ability in antireflux surgery patients and normal volunteers. The ability to belch was evaluated by a novel test, after gaseous stomach distension to standard volume, in 16 patients after antireflux surgery and nine healthy volunteers. A structured assessment of dyspeptic symptoms was also carried out in both groups. Repeat studies in volunteers showed acceptable reproducibility for the new test of belching capacity (within-subject coefficient of variance 4.5 per cent). After antireflux surgery, patients had lower volume individual belches (median(range) 27.5(0-104) ml in patients versus 76(15-165) ml in volunteers; P less than 0.02) and belched less gas within 1 h of the stimulus than volunteers (median(range) 205(0-1363) ml in patients versus 456(45-818) ml in volunteers; P less than 0.05). Belching frequency was similar in both groups. The incidence and severity of symptoms were unrelated to belched gas volumes. 
Population-based study of surgery in juvenile onset ulcerative colitis. A geographically based cohort of 37 children with ulcerative colitis has been derived by sampling from Scottish Hospital In-patient Statistics. Surgical histories were examined and analysed by actuarial methods, and the major operations performed were compared with operations for ulcerative colitis in the Lothians' Surgical Audit. Fourteen of the 37 patients had a total of 26 operations (15 major, 11 minor). Sixteen per cent had major surgery within 5 years of onset of symptoms, and the types of operation were similar to those recorded in Lothians' Surgical Audit. Operation rate was significantly lower than that for a parallel cohort of patients with Crohn's disease. With a mean follow-up of 7.4 years, seven (19 per cent) patients have a permanent stoma and there has been one death. 
Intraoperative defect in haemostasis in a child receiving valproic acid. This report describes the development of an intraoperative defect in haemostasis which occurred during surgery for lengthening of the heel cords and release of hip contractures in a patient receiving valproic acid. A review of the literature failed to find any other cases of a valproic acid-induced bleeding disorder occurring under anaesthesia and surgery. While recognized in the non-surgical literature, this case reports the first in which the development of a valproic acid-induced haemostatic defect occurred under anaesthesia. The subsequent course is discussed and some pathophysiological mechanisms are presented. It is suggested that for patients receiving valproic acid preoperative education should include PT/PTT, platelet and fibrinogen counts and bleeding time so that abnormal coagulation states can be recognized. 
Adamantinoma of the tibia with pulmonary metastases and hypercalcemia. Adamantinomas of long bones are rare primary malignant bone tumors. A case of a woman who died of pulmonary metastases of an adamantinoma of the tibia is presented. A unique feature of this case is the association with hypercalcemia. The association of hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia, decreased parathyroid hormone levels and increased urinary cAMP excretion suggests a humorally mediated hypercalcemia. Histologic and ultrastructural analysis of the pulmonary metastases demonstrated that the tumor was composed of a heterogeneous cell population with mesenchymal and epithelial differentiation. 
Effect of hyaluronic acid on postoperative intraperitoneal adhesion formation in the rat model. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the effectiveness of hyaluronic acid solution in preventing intraperitoneal (IP) adhesions. DESIGN AND SETTING: The study design was prospective, randomized and blinded and involved 83 rats. INTERVENTIONS: Measured serosal injury was inflicted using a CO2 laser on the right uterine horn of the rat. Animals randomized to groups 1 and 2 received either 0.4% hyaluronic acid or its diluent phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) intraperitoneally before and after the injury. In groups 3 and 4, the same solutions were used only after the injury. Postoperative adhesions were assessed at second-look laparotomy. Histologic assessment of the fresh laser injury was carried out on uteri pretreated with hyaluronic acid, PBS, or nothing. MAIN OUTCOME: Pretreatment with hyaluronic acid was associated with a significant reduction in postoperative adhesions and a significantly decreased crater depth. CONCLUSIONS: Hyaluronic acid appears to reduce postoperative IP adhesion formation by coating the serosal surfaces and decreasing the extent of initial tissue injury. 
Conjugated estrogens reduce endothelial prostacyclin production and fail to reduce postbypass blood loss. Intravenous conjugated estrogens correct bleeding times and reduce bleeding in uremia, gastrointestinal telangiectasias, and liver disease. One study found a similar benefit in patients undergoing open heart surgery. The mechanism by which conjugated estrogens improve bleeding times is unknown. We report on the effect of estrogens on endothelial prostacyclin production and bleeding in coronary bypass surgery. In a randomized, double-blind trial, 16 male patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery received four daily infusions of conjugated estrogens (0.6 mg/kg/day) or placebo, preoperatively. Groups were similar with respect to age, preoperative hemostatic profiles, and pump time. Conjugated estrogens significantly reduced greater saphenous vein endothelial prostacyclin production in the estrogen group compared to control subjects. Postoperative blood loss was not reduced, with a trend toward increased blood loss in the treatment group. We have shown that conjugated estrogens reduce endothelial prostacyclin production and fail to reduce blood loss in coronary bypass surgery. 
New visits for abdominal pain in the primary care setting. Abdominal pain is a common problem in primary care. Previous studies of this problem are limited by either the age group examined or the clinical setting. Findings of the 1980 and 1981 National Ambulatory Medical Care Surveys were combined to assess new visits for abdominal pain. A visit to a physician was considered to be for new abdominal pain when: 1) the principal reason for the visit was either stomach or abdominal pain, cramps, or spasms; 2) the visit was not the result of a referral; and 3) the physician had not previously seen the patient for the condition associated with the pain. Abdominal pain was the most frequent reason for a new pain visit. Women sought medical care for new abdominal pain more frequently than men. Most patients saw general practitioners or family physicians for evaluation of their pain, only 5% of patients were subsequently referred, and 6% were hospitalized. Clinical lab tests were ordered in 45% of new abdominal pain visits, while in approximately 20% X-ray procedures were ordered. Seventy percent of the patients were given a prescription, with antacids and antispasmodics being prescribed most frequently. 
Altered distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor in diabetic retinopathy. Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) is a potent endothelial cell mitogen that has been proposed to play a role in proliferative diabetic retinopathy and other neovascular processes. Our understanding of the in vivo role of basic FGF in the pathogenesis of these disorders is limited. We studied the immunolocalization of basic FGF in 16 clinical cases of diabetic retinopathy to determine whether the normal retinal distribution of basic FGF changed during the development of diabetic retinopathy and correlated with the onset of retinal neovascularization. By using monoclonal and affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies against basic FGF and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG), we found that basic FGF colocalized with HSPG to vascular basement membranes. As the basement membranes thickened during the progression of diabetic retinopathy, the intraretinal stores of immunoreactive basic FGF and HSPG expanded. With the development of neovascularization, the colocalization of basic FGF and HSPG changed; HSPG localized to basement membranes, while basic FGF localized intracellularly, with only minimal basement membrane immunoreactivity. Incubations of the neovascular fronds with exogenous basic FGF demonstrated multiple HSPG glycosaminoglycan-binding sites for basic FGF, indicating that basic FGF had not been released from the matrix of neovascular fronds by heparitanase digestion. 
A survey of antiemetic use in children with cancer. Pediatric oncologists within Pediatric Oncology Group institutions were surveyed to determine current antiemetic practices for children receiving chemotherapy and the basis for those practices. A mean severity rating for associated nausea and vomiting was calculated and used to rank 31 chemotherapeutic agents commonly used in the treatment of childhood cancer. Antiemetics were used 17%, 79%, and 98% of the time for chemotherapeutic agents with mild, moderate, or severe associated nausea and vomiting, respectively. A median of one, two, and three antiemetics were used for mild, moderate, and severe agents, respectively. Antihistamines and phenothiazines were the drugs most commonly used for agents causing mild or moderate nausea and vomiting, and metoclopramide hydrochloride/antihistamines with lorazepam and/or corticosteroids were used most often for chemotherapeutic agents causing severe nausea and vomiting. Most oncologists based their choice of antiemetics on personal experience. Current literature addressing the treatment of nausea and vomiting in children receiving chemotherapy, as reviewed here, does not always support the present clinical practices. 
Geographic variations in the histologic characteristics of the gastric mucosa. Histologic sections of 205 gastrectomy specimens, which were obtained for benign and malignant diseases, were reviewed. All patients were Mexican nationals. The following histologic features were recorded: intestinal metaplasia, intramucosal cysts, ciliated gastric cells, and different types of pyloric cells ("ordinary"; with granular cytoplasm; with small cytoplasmic vacuoles; with large cytoplasmic vacuoles; or with homogeneous "glassy" cytoplasm). The percentage of specimens showing intestinal metaplasia was similar in those containing gastric ulcers (42.7%) or adenocarcinomas (50.0%). Intestinal metaplasia was decreased in men 59 years of age or older and in women 69 years of age or older. Diffuse-type adenocarcinoma accounted for 90% of the gastric tumors. Only 3 of the 205 specimens (1.9%) contained intramucosal cysts, and only 1 (0.4%) showed ciliated cells. Pyloric cells with granular cytoplasm were observed in 21.2% of the specimens, and pyloric cells with small cytoplasmic vacuoles were seen in 1.9%. Pyloric cells with large vacuoles or "glassy" cytoplasm were not found in any case. These results indicate differences in the proportions of several histopathologic findings in the gastric mucosa, between Mexicans and other ethnic groups that have been investigated in previous surveys. The authors' findings support the hypothesis that different environmental factors, acting in disparate geographic regions, may account for dissimilarities in the histologic appearance of "normal gastric mucosa.". 
Coronary-subclavian steal: correction of recurrent angina and cerebrovascular symptoms. Six months following aortic valve replacement and myocardial revascularization using the left internal mammary artery as a pedicle graft, recurrent angina and cerebrovascular symptoms occurred in our patient. Cardiac catheterization demonstrated a subtotal stenosis of the proximal left subclavian artery and a patent internal mammary artery graft with angiographic steal from the myocardium. The angina and cerebrovascular symptoms were relieved with correction of the proximal subclavian stenosis by balloon angioplasty. This demonstrates the importance of aortic arch and subclavian evaluation and selected angiography prior to myocardial revascularization using the internal mammary artery as a pedicle graft. 
Treatment of acute systemic toxicity after the rapid intravenous injection of ropivacaine and bupivacaine in the conscious dog. Two groups of six beagle dogs received rapid intravenous (IV) injections of ropivacaine or bupivacaine on two occasions in a blinded random fashion. Initially, a dose sufficient to cause convulsions (CD) was given followed by twice the CD (2 x CD), which was administered 48 h later. The CD of bupivacaine (4.3 mg/kg) and ropivacaine (4.9 mg/kg) caused significant (P less than 0.05) increases in heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure. There was no difference between drug groups. Seizures were abolished by 10 mg/kg of intravenous thiamylal. Endotracheal intubation and controlled respiration with O2-enriched air with no other treatment resulted in rapid and complete recovery in all dogs. All dogs receiving 2 x CD of bupivacaine (8.6 mg/kg) or ropivacaine (9.8 mg/kg) were initially treated with thiamylal and mechanical ventilation. Two dogs in the bupivacaine group developed hypotension, respiratory arrest, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation, which were resistant to closed chest cardiac massage, treatment with epinephrine, bretylium, and atropine, and direct current cardioversion. The four remaining dogs in the infusion group were successfully resuscitated. All of the animals in the ropivacaine-treated group survived the administration of the 2 x CD dose. Mild hypotension developed in one dog and was treated with intravenous epinephrine (0.75 mg). This resulted in nodal tachycardia, which was abolished after treatment with bretylium. Another dog had two 1-s bursts of premature ventricular contractions requiring no treatment. The rapid treatment of convulsions and cardiovascular toxicity resulted in a decreased number of deaths in both groups when compared with dogs from a previously published study in which no therapy was instituted. Thus, early aggressive treatment of central nervous system and cardiovascular system toxicity is capable of reducing the incidence of mortality associated with the rapid intravenous administration of excessive doses of local anesthetics. 
Abnormally high level of C4b binding protein and deficiency of free fraction of protein S in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and recurrent thromboses. A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and numerous thrombotic accidents was found to have a deficiency of the free fraction of protein S, most likely due to an abnormally high level of C4b binding protein. These abnormalities, unique in comparison to 4 other patients with hypercoagulation states, were partially corrected with cyclophosphamide. There was no evidence of a consumption of complement components. The interactions between the hemostasis system and the complement cascade are discussed. 
Clinical symptoms in young adults with atypical chest pain attending the emergency department. Clinical symptoms were studied in 69 consecutive patients below the age of 40 years who were attending the emergency unit because of unexplained chest pain. In a structured interview a few weeks after the emergency visit, only one-third of the patients reported that they believed in the doctor's diagnosis; they believed in a psychological or cardiac origin of the pain more often than the doctors. The chest pain was most often described as oppressive and/or stabbing. In 95% of cases it was central or left-sided. Associated symptoms were commonly reported, breathlessness being most commonly reported by two-thirds of the patients, followed by dizziness, palpitation and numbness/tingling. Mental symptoms such as tiredness, anxiety and tension were frequently reported. On the basis of the background literature the aetiology is discussed. We conclude that immediate symptom analysis, including psychosomatic symptoms, particularly breathing problems, is of central importance. 
Pleuropulmonary complications of endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. The most common pulmonary complication of EVS is pleural effusion. The most clinically significant pulmonary complication of EVS is delayed perforation with formation of esophagopleural or esophagobronchial fistula. Pneumonia, empyema, pulmonary infarction, and atelectasis can also occur. Endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy probably does not cause ARDS, but that issue remains unsettled. Transient relative pulmonary hypertension during EVS is probably of no clinical significance, but caution is urged when sclerosing varices in a patient with borderline right heart function. 
Identification of transforming genes of subgroup A and C strains of Herpesvirus saimiri. Herpesvirus saimiri is an oncogenic herpesvirus that induces rapidly progressing lymphomas in New World primates. Using retrovirus vectors for gene transfer, specific open reading frames of H. saimiri were tested for their ability to transform rodent cells in culture. One open reading frame, designated STP-C488 (for saimiri-transformation-associated protein of the subgroup C strain 488), phenotypically transformed Rat-1 cells, resulting in formation of foci, growth at reduced serum concentration, and growth to higher cell densities. Cells transformed by STP-C488 formed invasive tumors in nude mice. The STP-A11 reading frame of strain 11 (subgroup A) was much less potent in its transforming ability than STP-C488. These results demonstrate the oncogene nature of these two open reading frames and provide a means for studying their transforming functions independent of the rest of the H. saimiri genome. 
Beneficial effects of the calcium antagonist isradipine on apolipoproteins in hypertensive patients. The objective of the study was to assess the effects of the calcium antagonist isradipine on plasma lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins in patients with essential hypertension. After a four-week placebo wash-out period, 73 patients (41 men, 32 women) were studied in a double-blind, randomized, crossover study comparing sustained-release isradipine (isradipine SR) with the standard isradipine formulation. Nineteen patients received 5 mg/day and 54 patients 10 mg/day. Lipids were evaluated at the end of the placebo period and after 12 weeks of treatment with isradipine. In both treatment groups, lipid and lipoproteins were not modified. However, apolipoprotein A-I levels increased significantly (P less than .001) and the ratio of apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A-I concentration decreased significantly (P less than .01) irrespective of gender. These data show that the levels of plasma apolipoprotein A-I, a strong predictor of coronary heart disease, are favorably affected by isradipine of either formulation. The mechanisms of this effect remain to be elucidated. 
Intracranial metastasis of a choroid plexus papilloma originating in the cerebellopontine angle region: a case report. The authors present a rare case in which a choroid plexus papilloma originating in the left cerebellopontine angle region metastasized and formed a space-occupying lesion in the right temporal region. A 46-year-old woman with choked disks presented with two separate mass lesions in the right temporal and the left cerebellopontine angle regions. Magnetic resonance imaging exhibited the relationship between the tumors and the surrounding structures. To our knowledge, no case has been reported in which a choroid plexus papilloma originating in the cerebellopontine angle region formed a space-occupying lesion in the right temporal region. 
Clinical, physiologic, anatomic and procedural factors predictive of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. In a recent prospective double-blind placebo-controlled trial, a combination of aspirin and dipyridamole was not associated with a reduction in the rate of restenosis within the 1st 6 months after coronary angioplasty. The purpose of this study was to determine whether clinical, anatomic or procedural factors were predictive of the observed restenosis rates in that prospective trial. A total of 247 patients and 280 segments underwent follow-up angiography and quantitative coronary angiographic analysis between 4 and 7 months after coronary angioplasty. Two baseline clinical characteristics--angina class and duration of angina in months--were related to the rate of restenosis by univariate analysis. Patient-related stepwise logistic regression analysis identified severity of angina as the only clinical predictor of restenosis. Three univariate baseline anatomic characteristics--percent diameter stenosis before angioplasty, stenosis greater than 10 mm in length and calcific stenosis--and two early postangioplasty characteristics--residual percent diameter stenosis and residual mean pressure gradient--were predictive of restenosis. Of these, only two--length of stenosis and residual percent diameter stenosis--were independently related to restenosis by multivariate analysis and only the former is identifiable before the procedure. It is concluded that in prospective studies in contrast to retrospective studies, few clinical and anatomic factors appear to be predictive of restenosis after coronary angioplasty. 
Serum lipoprotein (a) levels in men with peripheral vascular disease. The authors quantified serum lipoprotein (a) (Lp) (a) by enzymo-immuno-analysis in 86 outpatient men suffering peripheral vascular disease (PVD) and in 53 age-matched healthy men. They further measured serum cholesterol, serum triglycerides, low density lipoproteins-cholesterol, high density lipoproteins (HDL)-cholesterol and serum apolipoprotein B. Serum triglycerides were significantly increased in patients with PVD versus controls (148 +/- 8 and 114 +/- 7 mg/dL, mean +/- SEM). HDL-cholesterol levels were significantly lower in patients versus controls (36 +/- 1 and 43 +/- 2 mg/dL, respectively). Serum Lp(a) levels in patients with PVD were 20 +/- 2 mg/dL, whereas in controls they were 16 +/- 3 (p: NS). Serum Lp(a) concentrations were identical in smoker and nonsmoker patients. There was no correlation between Lp(a) concentration and the other lipid parameters. Conversely, as occurs in coronary heart disease and in cerebrovascular disease, Lp(a) does not seem to be a marker for PVD, although a trend toward a higher mean levels was found. 
Third-degree atrioventricular block in an athlete. There is a wide spectrum of changes in the resting electrocardiograms of athletes. We here present a case of third-degree atrioventricular block in an asymptomatic young athlete. 
Septicaemia after colonoscopy in patients with cirrhosis. Two patients with ulcerative colitis and chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis, who developed Gram negative septicaemia after colonoscopy are described. These and two similar reported cases indicate that giving prophylactic antibiotics to patients with cirrhosis undergoing colonoscopy should be considered, particularly when the cirrhosis is advanced. 
Oral water intoxication in infants. An American epidemic Between 1975 and 1990, a total of 34 patients with water intoxication were treated at St Louis (Mo) Children's Hospital, 24 of these in the last 3 years, indicating a marked increase in incidence of this previously rare condition. Thirty-one were infants living in poverty who ingested excessive amounts of water offered at home by their caretakers. Exhaustion of the supply of infant formula was the most common reason given for this substitution. Infants were treated by a single infusion of hypertonic saline or a slow infusion of isotonic saline. Central pontine myelinolysis was not observed as a complication of hypertonic saline therapy. Modification of the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children to provide sufficient formula for the growing infant and better education of mothers as to the hazards of excessive water ingestion might reduce the incidence of this preventable and life-threatening condition. 
A comparison of the results following oromandibular reconstruction using a radial forearm flap with either radial bone or a reconstruction plate. Fifteen cases of oromandibular reconstruction using a radial osteocutaneous flap were compared with 16 in which the mandible was replaced with a reconstruction plate and a forearm flap was used for intraoral lining. All cases involved oral cancer; most had been irradiated. Nine survived in each group. Complications included one infected nonunion in addition to two bone exposures in the bone group, compared with three cases of plate exposure and two bone exposures in the plate group. Functional results were similar in both, but osteointegrated implants were possible only in the patients receiving bone. Cosmesis seemed somewhat better in the plate group. Donor-site problems were common but minor, and long-term forearm function was slightly reduced in both groups. Although the sample sizes were small, the reconstruction plate together with a radial forearm flap appeared to provide effective reconstruction following composite resection. However, we would not recommend this for the younger patient or in benign disease. 
Massive cardiac involvement of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. An autopsy case. We describe an unusual autopsy case of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma with massive cardiac involvement. The patient was admitted to the hospital with symptoms of fever and cervical lymph node enlargement, which improved following treatment with vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide (Endoxan), prednisolone sodium succinate, and doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin). He was then followed up in the outpatient clinic, but was readmitted to the hospital with palpitations and dyspnea. Cardiomegaly developed rapidly, and the patient died of congestive heart failure 3 months after readmission. The heart was massively enlarged at autopsy. The heart, including adhered surrounding tissue, weighed 1600 g. The myocardium was found to be replaced by massive infiltration of atypical lymphoid cells. Cardiac involvement by adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma may result from extension or retrograde flow through cardiac lymphatics from the destroyed mediastinal lymphatic system. 
Perfusion without systemic heparinization for rewarming in accidental hypothermia. We report on a patient with accidental deep hypothermia (23.3 degrees C) and cardiorespiratory arrest resulting from severe craniocerebral injury. Systemic anticoagulation was contraindicated, and the decision was reached to rewarm the patient with cardiopulmonary bypass without systemic heparinization using heparin-coated perfusion equipment. The patient was successfully rewarmed, was weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass, and recovered. 
Intraoperative cardiovascular collapse secondary to latex allergy. An apparent allergic reaction has been noted in children undergoing open urological surgery. This condition is characterized by precipitous hypotension, tachycardia and upper body flushing, and it often causes termination of the procedure. Latex allergy has been identified as the possible inciting event. Contact of latex rubber gloves with intra-abdominal structures (handling bowel) appears to be the most dramatic trigger mechanism for this reaction. We report on 10 patients with latex allergy, 6 of whom have myelomeningocele, who have undergone reconstructive surgery. Severe anaphylactic shock developed intraoperatively in 5 patients and during a barium enema performed with a latex catheter in 1 patient. These 6 patients had previous allergic reactions to latex material, which was not detected preoperatively. In the remaining 4 patients latex allergy was diagnosed preoperatively. A total of 6 patients agreed to a skin prick test to liquid latex. Three patients reacted with a wheal size greater than or equal to a histamine control at a dilution of 1:1,000 and 3 patients at 1:100. In contrast, none of the 5 normal controls reacted to any of the concentrations including full strength latex. A history of exposure to latex products (balloons, surgical gloves, catheters, condoms and so forth) with allergic reactions should heighten surgeon awareness of a potentially severe intraoperative reaction. Furthermore, a skin prick test may be used to screen high risk patients such as those with myelomeningocele. A protocol involving preoperative corticosteroid and antihistamine therapy is recommended. 
Cardiac angiosarcoma with ruptured right atrium diagnosed by echocardiography. A 41-year-old man was admitted to our hospital complaining of right-sided chest pain. Two-dimensional echocardiographic examination revealed a ruptured right atrium and a localized pericardial effusion. Color Doppler echocardiography and contrast echocardiography showed blood flow from the right atrium into pericardial effusion, which was confirmed at emergency surgery. The pathologic specimen from the right atrium showed a spindle cell angiosarcoma. 
Chinese hamster ovarian cells transfected with the murine interleukin-6 gene cause hypercalcemia as well as cachexia, leukocytosis and thrombocytosis in tumor-bearing nude mice. The effects of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in vivo were assessed by inoculating Chinese hamster ovarian (CHO) cells which were transfected with the murine IL-6 gene in nude mice. Nude mice bearing CHO cells expressing IL-6 developed hypercalcemia. Tumor-bearing mice also showed increases in white cell count, platelet count, and decreases in body weight. In nude mice carrying CHO tumors which had not been transfected with the IL-6 gene, there were no changes in these parameters. These results suggest that increased circulating concentrations of IL-6 in patients with malignant disease may contribute to a number of paraneoplastic syndromes including hypercalcemia, cachexia, leukocytosis and thrombocytosis. 
HIV infection among women entering the New York State correctional system. Human immunodeficiency virus infection is the leading medical problem among prison inmates in several states. In 1988 a blinded seroprevalence study was conducted on 480 New York female prison entrants to determine the prevalence of and risk factors for HIV infection in this population. Ninety (18.8 percent) women were HIV-seropositive. Seroprevalence was highest among women ages 30-39 (25.0 percent) and varied by ethnicity (Hispanics, 29.4 percent; Blacks, 14.4 percent; Whites, 7.1 percent) and residence (New York City, 23.8 percent; Upstate, 5.1 percent). Nearly half (44.9 percent) of the 136 acknowledged intravenous drug users and one-third (33.8 percent) of the 71 women with a positive syphilis serology were HIV-seropositive. There was no difference in fertility histories between seropositive and seronegative women, and two of 21 pregnant women were seropositive. This study led to increased clinical and prevention services for this high-risk population. 
Giant, human immunodeficiency virus-related ulcers in the esophagus. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection of the esophagus has recently been implicated as a cause of giant esophageal ulcers in HIV-positive patients with odynophagia. The authors examined four patients in whom esophagograms (one single-contrast and three double-contrast studies) revealed giant, HIV-related ulcers indistinguishable from those of cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophagitis. All four patients had severe odynophagia, one had an associated maculopapular rash, and two became HIV-positive at approximately the time of clinical presentation. In all patients, biopsy samples, brushings, and cultures obtained with endoscopy were negative for CMV or herpes simplex. One patient had positive brushings for candidiasis, but this may have resulted from fungal superinfection of the ulcer. Two patients were treated with orally administered steroids, and all four had swift clinical improvement; symptoms disappeared during an average period of 8.3 days from presentation. HIV-related esophageal ulcers should be distinguished from CMV ulcers, so that appropriate treatment can be initiated in these patients. 
A prospective randomized trial of adjuvant chemotherapy with bolus versus continuous infusion of doxorubicin in patients with high-grade extremity soft tissue sarcoma and an analysis of prognostic factors. A prospective randomized trial was conducted to compare the cardiotoxic and therapeutic effects of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks) administered by bolus or 72-hour continuous infusion as adjuvant chemotherapy in 82 eligible patients after resection of high-grade soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or superficial trunk. Cardiac toxicity, defined as a 10% or greater decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction as assessed by radionuclide cineangiography, was evaluated in 69 patients. Cardiotoxicity was seen in 61% of patients in the bolus treatment arm with the median doxorubicin dose of 420 mg/m2. Among patients who received continuous infusion, 42% had cardiotoxicity with a median dose of 540 mg/m2. The rate of cardiotoxicity as a function of the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was significantly higher in the bolus treatment arm (P = 0.0017). Two patients in each group had clinical congestive heart failure, with one cardiac death occurring in each. There was a trend toward a lower rate of metastasis (P = 0.19) and a significantly lower rate of death of disease (P = 0.036) for patients treated with the bolus dose. Cox model analysis identified three unfavorable characteristics for the rate of developing a distant metastasis: blood transfusion within 24 hours of operation (P less than 0.00001), tumor deep to the fascia and 5 cm or more in size (P = 0.0043), and a histologic subtype other than liposarcoma (P = 0.0002). The unfavorable effect of continuous infusion was not selected in the model (P = 0.16). Adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with soft tissue sarcoma is investigational. Furthermore, the impact of perioperative blood transfusion merits further study. 
Balloon diameter of the Inoue balloon catheter during percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy: clinical and experimental study. To determine adequate and effective balloon diameters of the Inoue balloon catheter, we reviewed clinical results and characteristics of the Inoue balloon catheter, especially the relationship between the intra-balloon pressure and the balloon diameter, experimentally and clinically, in 46 patients with mitral stenosis undergoing percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (PTMC). Mitral valve area increased from 1.1 +/- 0.3 to 2.1 +/- 0.3 cm2 in all patients after PTMC. Based on balloon diameter settings, mitral valve area increased from 1.3 +/- 0.4 to 2.3 +/- 0.5 cm2 in patients treated with a balloon setting greater than 26 mm in diameter, from 1.1 +/- 0.3 to 2.0 +/- 0.5 cm2 in patients with a balloon setting at 26 mm in diameter, and from 1.1 +/- 0.4 to 1.7 +/- 0.4 cm2 in those treated with a balloon setting less than 26 mm in diameter, with an increase in mitral valve area of 1.0 +/- 0.6, 0.9 +/- 0.4, and 0.7 +/- 0.2 cm2, respectively. There was a significant difference between the increase in mitral valve area at a setting of 26 mm in diameter and that observed at a setting less than 26 mm in diameter. We next investigated differences between balloon diameter settings and actual balloon diameters measured from cineangiograms at maximum balloon inflation. The ratio of actual balloon diameter to a setting diameter of less than 26 mm was smaller than that of 26 mm. To evaluate the reason for the difference, we investigated the relationship between intra-balloon pressure and balloon diameter. In the prototype Inoue balloon catheter, intra-balloon pressure increases from 1.0 kg/cm2 at 20 mm in diameter to 2.2 kg/cm2 at 30 mm in diameter at atmospheric pressure. In conclusion, the increase in mitral valve area was inadequate when the balloon was less than 26 mm in diameter because of inadequate intra-balloon pressure. We, therefore, recommend a balloon size set above 26 mm to obtain adequate intra-balloon pressure when using the Inoue balloon catheter. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysms complicated by spontaneous iliocaval or duodenal fistulae. Seven hundred and twenty one abdominal aortic aneurysms were treated between 1960 and 1985. Twenty one of these (2.9%) were complicated by the development of a spontaneous primary fistula, 16 (2.2%) into the vena cava or iliac veins and 5 (0.7%) into the duodenum. A correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only four instances, two aorto-caval and two aorto-duodenal fistulae. Hospital mortality was 44% for aorto-caval and 60% for aorto-duodenal fistulae. Despite the lack of a precise preoperative diagnosis in the majority of cases, the prognosis for aorto-caval fistula remained comparable to that for patients undergoing emergency surgery for uncomplicated ruptured aortic aneurysms. The mortality of spontaneous aorto-duodenal fistulae was appreciably higher and the aneurysmal contents of 4 out of these 5 cases had positive bacterial cultures. 
Ocular inflammation in Crohn's disease. During a 4-year period, the authors examined 19 patients with Crohn's disease and associated ocular inflammation. Seven patients had uveitis, eight had episcleritis, and four had anterior scleritis. Large peripheral corneal infiltrates developed in two patients with scleritis. Increased bowel activity was closely related to the presence of acute episcleritis but not to uveitis or scleritis. To determine risk factors for the development of ocular inflammation, this group of 19 patients was compared with a group of 93 patients with Crohn's disease in whom ocular inflammation was not present. There were no demographic differences between the groups. Patients with colitis or ileocolitis were more likely to suffer from ocular inflammation (23.9%, 17 of 71), than patients with small bowel involvement alone (2.8%, 1 of 36) (P = 0.013). Those with arthritis or arthralgia had a higher incidence of ocular inflammation (29.4%, 15 of 51), than patients without joint involvement (6.6%, 4 of 61) (P = 0.003). These results suggest that the risk of developing ocular inflammation in Crohn's disease may be related to the site of bowel involvement and to the presence of arthritis. 
Systemic and pulmonary circulatory effects of protamine following cardiopulmonary bypass in man. The cardiovascular effects of protamine were studied in 19 men with normal left ventricular function undergoing primary myocardial revascularization. Protamine was given over 120 sec after termination of cardiopulmonary bypass. Arterial and pulmonary pressures, aortic blood flow, central venous pressure, heart rate and electrocardiogram were continuously registered. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was recorded at the times of maximal hemodynamic response. The systolic arterial pressure fell from 116 to 66 mmHg about 60 sec after the start of protamine infusion, but spontaneously began to rise after a few seconds, reaching 90% of pre-protamine levels at 126 sec. No inotropic drugs or volume infusion were given. At about 2 min, the mean pulmonary artery pressure rose from 16.3 to 26.2 mmHg and the central venous pressure from 7.0 to 11.4 mmHg. The heart rate and cardiac output were almost unchanged throughout. Systemic hypotension and pulmonary hypertension are suggested to represent true side effects of protamine or protamine/heparin complex. When left ventricular function is good, the hypotension reverses without treatment. Volume infusion may indeed precipitate right heart failure when the pre-load effect is added to the subsequent protamine-induced pulmonary hypertension. 
A randomized, controlled trial of treatment of alcoholic hepatitis with parenteral nutrition and oxandrolone. I. Short-term effects on liver function. The present studies were designed to provide careful measures of effects of oxandrolone, an anabolic steroid, intravenous nutritional supplementation, and the combination of these two treatments on liver functions, metabolic balances, nitrogen metabolism, and nutritional status in patients with moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. Of 43 patients originally recruited, 39 (19 men, 20 women) with typical clinical and laboratory features of alcoholic hepatitis (11 Child's-Pugh class B; 28 class C) were admitted to a metabolic unit and completed a 35-day three-phase protocol. Phase I was a 10-day baseline period of observation, during which routine and special quantitative tests of liver function (galactose and antipyrine metabolism), a 7-day elemental balance study, and a 15N, 13C-leucine metabolism study were done. Phase II was a 21-day treatment period during which patients were randomly assigned to receive one of four regimens: 1) standard therapy, consisting of abstinence, a balanced, nutritionally adequate diet, and multivitamins; 2) oxandrolone (20 mg orally four times a day) plus standard therapy; 3) nutritional supplementation, consisting of 2 L daily of 3.5% crystalline amino acids (in 5% dextrose), given by peripheral vein; or 4) a combination of oxandrolone and nutritional supplementation, along with standard therapy. Metabolic balances were repeated during phase II. Phase III was 2 or 3 days posttreatment, during which special studies of liver functions and volumes and leucine metabolism were repeated. All patients who completed phase I of study and were randomly allocated to one of the four treatment groups completed the subsequent two phases. Overall, with time, patients showed highly significant improvements in most clinical and laboratory features. For most standard laboratory tests (e.g., serum albumin, transferrin, prothrombin time) improvements were more marked in patients treated with nutritional supplementation and/or oxandrolone than in those given standard therapy alone. Liver volumes fell in all treatment groups, with greater improvement in those treated with nutritional supplementation. Improvements in galactose and antipyrine metabolism rates were significant only in those treated with nutritional supplementation or oxandrolone. Effects of treatments on metabolic balances, nitrogen metabolism, and measures of nutrition are described in this issue in a companion paper. We conclude that the addition of nutritional supplementation and oxandrolone to standard therapy of moderately severe or severe alcoholic hepatitis is well tolerated, and leads to more rapid improvement in the laboratory parameters measured. 
Myocardial lactate dehydrogenase and its isoenzyme activities in transplanted human hearts. Lactate dehydrogenase and its heart (H) and muscle (M) subunit activities were studied in right ventricular endomyocardial biopsies from eight transplanted human hearts and compared with five chronically failing hearts and six normal human hearts from brain-dead liver/kidney donors. Of the 17 transplant biopsies (taken 5-95 weeks postoperatively), only two showed histologic signs of chronic rejection: They were excluded from the group analysis. A higher proportion of the M subunit of lactate dehydrogenase (M%) was found in the transplanted and the chronically failing hearts than in the normal hearts, presumably reflecting increased myocardial anaerobic glycolytic stress. In the early post-transplantation period, M% was higher in the transplanted than in the chronically failing hearts. Thereafter M% gradually fell, but had not reached normal levels 1-2 years after transplantation. During that time it was similar to the values in the chronic-failure hearts. In the two biopsies with chronic rejection, M% was nearly twice as high as in contemporaneous biopsies showing mild or no rejection. Monitoring of enzymatic adaptation from endomyocardial biopsies may be of clinical interest. 
Genetic basis for p53 overexpression in human breast cancer. Overexpression of an activated form of the p53 protein may be involved in neoplastic transformation. We found widespread overexpression of p53 by immunohistochemical staining in 11 (22%) of 49 primary invasive human breast cancers. Northern blot analysis showed that this overexpression was not due to an increase in the steady-state level of p53 mRNA. The p53 gene was directly sequenced in 7 of these tumors with elevated levels of the protein and, in each case, a mutation that altered the coding sequence for p53 was found in a highly conserved region of the gene. Whereas 4 of these tumors contained only a mutant p53 allele, the other 3 tumors exhibited coding sequences from both a mutant and a wild-type allele. p53 mutations have previously been correlated with allelic loss of part of chromosome 17p that contains the p53 locus. Examination of all 49 breast tumors revealed a 61% frequency of deletion at or near the p53 locus. However, the presence of allelic deletion did not correlate with overexpression of the protein. Six tumors that were deleted but did not express high levels of the protein were sequenced and all retained a wild-type p53 allele. In this series of human breast cancers, overexpression of the p53 protein, not allelic loss on chromosome 17p, was always associated with mutation of the p53 gene. 
Small cell carcinoma of the genitourinary tract: an immunohistochemical, electron microscopic and clinicopathological study. We examined 13 cases of small cell carcinoma of the genitourinary tract to evaluate and compare the immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features as well as the clinicopathological behavior. Immunohistochemical stains revealed that neuron specific enolase and chromogranin showed differences in staining between the bladder and prostate, as well as between the small cell and adenocarcinomatous components of the prostate. Also, synaptophysin was negative over-all in 12 of 13 cases. Epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen and keratin showed strong focal positivity within the small cell component. Electron microscopy was performed in 4 cases, with 3 demonstrating neurosecretory granules. Clinically, 6 of the 7 patients with adenocarcinoma/small cell carcinoma of the prostate did poorly, all with a survival of 15 months or less. Of 5 patients with transitional cell/small cell carcinoma of the bladder 2 fared better (both had no evidence of disease at 12 months and 11 years, respectively). Based upon the immunostaining and electron microscopic findings, small cell carcinoma of the genitourinary tract is heterogeneous in appearance and, therefore, may arise from a multipotential cell of origin. This cell of origin may be organ-specific, as demonstrated by the variability in staining characteristics among the prostate, bladder and kidney, as well as by the differences in the clinical behavior of these malignancies. Small cell carcinoma of the prostate has a poor prognosis, while small cell carcinoma of the bladder may portend a better prognosis if diagnosed at an early stage. 
Neodymium:yttrium-aluminum garnet laser-assisted pulmonary resections. The neodymium:yttrium-aluminum garnet laser is a new approach to limited pulmonary resection. It avoids distortion of surrounding pulmonary tissue and potential pleural space problems, which can occur with mechanical stapler resections. We have recently used this laser to manage 39 pulmonary lesions in 20 patients. There were no major postoperative complications, and air leak after resection was minimal. Neodymium:yttrium-aluminum garnet laser excision is a useful method that may have an advantage over mechanical stapling techniques for the limited resection of many pulmonary lesions. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-associated gastropathy: incidence and risk factor models PURPOSE: The most prevalent serious drug toxicity in the United States is increasingly recognized as gastrointestinal (GI) pathology associated with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The incidence of serious GI events (hospitalization or death) associated with NSAID use was therefore prospectively analyzed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and patients with osteoarthritis. PATIENTS, METHODS, AND RESULTS: The study consisted of 2,747 patients with RA and 1,091 patients with osteoarthritis. The yearly hospitalization incidence during NSAID treatment was 1.58% in RA patients and was similar in all five populations studied. The hazard ratio of patients taking NSAIDs to those not taking NSAIDs was 5.2. The incidence in osteoarthritis may be less. The risk of GI-related death in RA patients was 0.19% per year with NSAIDs. Multivariate analyses assessing risk factors for serious GI events were performed in the 1,694 (98 with an event) RA patients taking NSAIDs at the predictive visit. The main risk factors were higher age, use of prednisone, previous NSAID GI side effects, prior GI hospitalization, level of disability, and NSAID dose. A rule is presented that allows estimation of the risk for the individual patient with RA. CONCLUSION: Knowledge of the risk factors for NSAID-associated gastropathy and their inter-relationships provides a tool for identification of the patient at high risk and for initiation of appropriate therapeutic action. 
Renal failure due to bronchogenic adenocarcinoma metastatic to kidneys. A case is presented of a fifty-eight-year-old woman with bronchogenic adenocarcinoma in whom renal failure developed manifested by hypertension and azotemia. Subsequent percutaneous needle aspiration biopsy confirmed metastatic renal involvement. No etiology other than renal infiltration due to metastatic bronchogenic adenocarcinoma was found to explain the renal failure. Literature review revealed no previous reported case of metastatic bronchogenic adenocarcinoma to the kidney presenting antemortem with renal failure. 
Determinants of sciatica and low-back pain. Several factors were studied for their association with the prevalence of chronic low-back syndromes, sciatica, and unspecified low-back pain (LBP) in 2,946 women and 2,727 men (age range, 30-64 years) participating in the Mini-Finland Health Survey, a project aimed at comprehensive evaluation of the population's health. On the basis of a standardized clinical examination, a physician diagnosed sciatica in 5.1% and LBP in 11.6% of the subjects. Those with a previous traumatic back injury had a 2.5-fold risk of having sciatica or LBP. The fractions of sciatica and LBP attributable to such back injuries were estimated to be 16.5% and 13.7%, respectively. Sum indices of both physical and mental stress at work were found to be directly proportional to the prevalence of sciatica and LBP. Smokers had an increased risk of LBP, and body height was related positively to the prevalence of sciatica. These associations, however, were inconsistent between sex and age subgroups. In the presence of osteoarthritis in the knee, hip, or hand, LBP was prevalent (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 5.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1-6.9), but sciatica was not (OR, 1.1; 95% CI, 0.7-1.7). Diabetics were found to have a significantly decreased prevalence of LBP (OR, 0.4; 95% CI, 0.3-0.8). Many factors, independent of each other, determine the occurrence of chronic low-back syndromes. The determinants of sciatica and LBP are different to some extent. 
Myointimal hyperplasia as a result of balloon-catheter thromboembolectomy. The balloon-tipped embolectomy catheter is widely utilized in the treatment of arterial thromboemboli, significantly improving mortality and limb salvage rates. However, early and late complications related to catheter-tip injury and balloon trauma continue to occur and compromise the results of surgical intervention. Myointimal hyperplasia is an example of an unusual late complication induced by balloon-related arterial wall trauma. Myointimal hyperplasia is a commonly recognized healing response of the arterial wall to endothelial injury but is rarely reported after balloon-catheter thromboembolectomy. The extensive nature of the injury increases the incidence of limb loss. The pathophysiologic nature of this process is reviewed, and pertinent structural details such as intimal thickening and disruption of the internal elastic lamina are presented. The pathogenesis of myointimal hyperplasia suggests guidelines for catheter use during embolectomy that may further reduce the incidence of this unusual complication. 
Oral contraceptive use and coronary risk factors in women. The relationship between oral contraceptive use and other coronary artery disease risk factors was examined in 215 nonsmoking women grouped as never, current, or previous users. Current oral contraceptive users had higher triglyceride levels (p less than or equal to 0.001) than other groups, higher systolic blood pressure, and lower plasma HDL-cholesterol levels (p less than or equal to 0.05) than previous users. The effect of oral contraceptive use on plasma triglyceride values persists on multivariate regression analysis independently of age, body mass index, dietary sodium and cholesterol intake, cigarette smoking, and level of physical activity. Oral contraceptive use also has an independent relationship to the plasma total cholesterol/HDL- cholesterol ratio. These findings indicate that oral contraceptive use is adversely associated with plasma lipid and lipoprotein values. 
A simple radiologic method to estimate the quantity of bowel gas. Patients with functional bowel disorders frequently complain of bloating and abdominal pain, but no practical method is available to measure intestinal gas objectively. To evaluate a new technique, we evaluated 54 abdominal radiographs from 19 patients. A gastroenterologist and a radiologist independently outlined the intestinal gas bubbles in these films. Areas of gas bubbles were measured with a computer digitizing board. Bowel gas was also measured in 24 healthy controls, and in five emergency room patients, supine and erect radiographs were compared to evaluate the effects of position on bowel gas patterns. The two evaluators agreed well on the measured areas of bowel gas (r = 0.96), showing that this is a reliable method. Bowel gas was significantly greater in patients than in controls but did not correlate with symptoms. Bowel gas was significantly greater in supine than upright films, showing that the position of the patient must be standardized. 
Successful epicardial pacing in blunt trauma resuscitation. Epicardial pacing wires were used successfully in the resuscitation of a moribund victim of blunt trauma after fluid resuscitation and chemical measures had failed. Application of these wires to treat the bradycardia of shock should be considered in selected patients when standard measures fail. 
Formation and spontaneous closure of an arteriovenous fistula after transvenous pacemaker placement. We report the findings in a patient with the unusual complication of arteriovenous fistula formation of the subclavian vessels seven weeks following placement of a dual-chamber pacemaker. The fistula's subsequent course was equally unusual, closing spontaneously three weeks later. It is postulated that the thrombotic and fibrotic reaction elicited by the leads contributed to the fistula's closure. Two surgical procedures, correction of the fistula and reimplantation of the pacemaker, were thus avoided by careful monitoring of the patient. 
Ileal segment for ureteral substitution or for improvement of ureteral function. A total of 29 patients received an ileal segment interposition between the upper and lower urinary tract for partial or total ureteral substitution, or for ileal wrapping around a massively dilated, aperistaltic ureter. Indications for an operation included the presence of an extensively diseased or short ureter and an aperistaltic megaureter that had failed previous reconstructive attempts. Nine patients (group 1) underwent an ileal sleeve procedure in an attempt to increase the ureteral peristaltic activity and facilitate drainage. Among these patients 7 (78%) had a stable upper tract radiologically and normal serum creatinine (less than 1.6 mg./100 ml.), while 2 (22%) had deterioration of the renal function. Ten patients (group 2) had undergone a myriad of reconstructions that failed and then underwent complete ureteral substitution with ileum. Among them, renal function (as evidenced by excretory urography and serum creatinine) is stable in 7 (70%) and deteriorated in 3 (30%). In 10 patients (group 3) the ureters were partially replaced by ileum in addition to a bladder augmentation procedure. Of these patients 8 (80%) have stable renal function and 2 (20%) had renal failure. Over-all, 7 patients have different degrees of renal failure; among them 2 (6.9%) are on dialysis and 2 (6.9%) have received a transplanted kidney. In groups 2 and 3 the results with an antireflux operation indicated that among 6 ureteroileal reimplantations 5 (83%) were successful, among 12 intravesical intestinal nipples 6 (50%) failed to prevent reflux and there was no case of obstruction, while among 4 ileocecal intussusceptions 2 (50%) were successful and 2 failed. Mucous secretion produced temporary ureteral obstruction in 1 ureter (3.4%), which resolved without surgical intervention. Some of the aforementioned procedures were done in the past and in some situations a different reconstructive technique would be considered presently. The surgical complexity and magnitude of the procedures justify their performance only in difficult clinical situations as an alternative to urinary diversion or renal autotransplantation. 
Comparison of cellular protooncogene activation and transformation-related activity of human melanocytes and metastatic melanoma. Two cell lines (NH and HM1), established from patients with metastatic melanomas, were evaluated for the presence of activated cellular protooncogenes. Northern blot analysis demonstrated increased expression of the c-myc gene (from 9 to 14 times) in NH and HM1 cell lines by densitometric comparison with human melanocyte cell lines. Analysis of the expression of 13 additional cellular protooncogenes revealed either no detectable levels (c-fms, c-abl, v-src, c-erb A1, c-erb B, v-mos, TGF beta, and c-myb) or unaltered expression levels (cH-ras, N-ras, c-fos, and c-sis) in normal human melanocytes and metastatic melanomas. Elevated expression of the c-myc gene was also detected in two long-term cultured melanoma cell lines (RPMI 7951 and SKMEL-30). Analysis of c-myc expression by in situ hybridization in HM1 cells showed that expression was not localized to a sub-population of cycling cells and all cells were overexpressing c-myc mRNA. Differences in relative abundance of c-myc transcripts suggests a relationship with the ability of DNA from these cell lines to efficiently transform NIH 3T3 cells and form colonies on soft agar. 
Assessment of systemic effects of different ophthalmic beta-blockers in healthy volunteers. Systemic beta-blockade after single doses of ophthalmic beta-blockers (one drop in each eye) was investigated in healthy volunteers in two randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled studies. beta-Blockade was evaluated by displacement of the bronchodilator (specific airway conductance), positive chronotropic (heart rate), and tremorogenic (finger tremor amplitude) dose-response curve for inhaled isoproterenol. In study 1, 0.5% betaxolol, 0.6% metipranolol, and 0.5% timolol were tested in 16 subjects. Compared with placebo, all beta-blockers resulted in a significant systemic beta-blockade (p greater than 0.05); the increasing order of potency was betaxolol, metipranolol, and timolol. In study 2, 2% butylamino-phenoxy-propanol-acetate (BPPA; a noncardioselective but topically oculoselective drug) and 1% timolol were investigated in 12 subjects. Placebo and BPPA showed no differences (p greater than 0.05), whereas timolol resulted in a significant beta-blockade (p less than 0.05). Topical oculoselectivity is an important aspect of drug safety of beta-blocking eyedrops. Measure of tremor is appropriate to evaluate beta 2-blockade. 
Randomized study on the effect of collagen impregnation of knitted Dacron velour aortoiliac prostheses on blood loss during aortic reconstruction. Intraoperative blood loss is an important factor in reconstructive surgery for aortoiliac disease because it is clearly associated with an increase in the operative morbidity and mortality rates. To minimize intraoperative blood loss, a blood-tight vascular prosthesis has been developed by impregnating a knitted Dacron prosthesis with bovine collagen. To study a potential reduction of intraoperative blood loss using these collagen-impregnated prostheses, we conducted a prospective randomized trial involving the collagen-impregnated prosthesis and its non-impregnated substrate, the Dacron knitted non-impregnated prosthesis. During a 2.5-year period, 123 consecutive patients (undergoing 81 procedures for aneurysmal disease and 43 procedures for occlusive disease) were admitted for elective aortic reconstructive surgery. Equal numbers of the two prostheses were randomly implanted. Various parameters were monitored: intraoperative blood loss before aortic cross-clamping (phase 1), during implantation of the prosthesis (phase 2) and after release of aorta cross-clamping (phase 3); the number of intraoperative and postoperative blood transfusions; and, finally, all preoperative and intraoperative factors that might contribute to intraoperative blood loss. A significant overall difference in intraoperative blood loss between the collagen-impregnated (2425 ml) and the non-impregnated (1907 ml) group was found (P = 0.003). However, this difference could not be attributed to collagen impregnation because no statistically significant difference in blood loss was found in the relevant period of operation (phase 3). Similar results were observed in patients operated on for both aneurysmal and occlusive disease (2600 versus 2195 ml and 2105 versus 1344 ml respectively). 
Continuous venovenous hemofiltration in the management of acute decompensation in inborn errors of metabolism. Continuous venovenous hemofiltration was used to treat two neonates, one with maple syrup urine disease and the other with an inborn error of long-chain fatty acid oxidation. The latter infant had hypoglycemia, hyperammonemia and lactic acidosis. In both cases, acceptable biochemical control was achieved within 8 hours. This therapy offers the potential to overcome acute crises rapidly in a wide range of inborn errors of intermediary metabolism. 
Immunocytochemical detection of kappa and lambda light chain V region subgroups in human B-cell malignancies. We have used a sensitive immunoperoxidase method and highly specific anti-light chain antisera to determine the light chain variable region (VL) subgroup nature of cytoplasmic (c) and cell surface (s) Ig expressed by human monoclonal plasma cells and B lymphocytes. The immunocytochemical characterization of cIg and sIg used antisera specific for the established kappa light chain V kappa subgroups (V kappa I, V kappa II, V kappa III, and V kappa IV) and the lambda light chain V lambda subgroups (V lambda I, V lambda II/V, V lambda IV, and V lambda VI). Studies were performed using cytospin preparations of bone marrow-, peripheral blood-, and lymph node-derived cells from patients with multiple myeloma, amyloidosis AL, and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia and with low-, mid-, and high-grade B-cell malignancies. The V kappa or V lambda subgroup of the cIg or sIg also could be identified after deparaffinization and enzyme treatment of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens. For those patients who had monoclonal serum or urinary Igs, there was complete concordance between the VL subgroup of the secreted Ig and that of the cIg or sIg. The percentage distribution of V kappa or V lambda subgroups on the sIg of cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other cytomorphologic types of B-cell malignancies differed from that found for kappa- or lambda-type Bence Jones proteins obtained from patients with multiple myeloma, amyloidosis AL, and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. In contrast to the plasma cell and lymphocytoid plasma cell diseases, a relative predominance of certain VL subgroups, ie, V kappa IV, V lambda III, and V lambda IV, and the absence of the amyloid-associated V lambda VI subgroup were found in CLL and related diseases. The immunocytochemical techniques used make possible a rapid means to demonstrate B-cell monoclonality and provide further evidence for the selective expression of certain VL genes in human B-cell neoplasia. 
Improvement in oxygen tensions and pulmonary blood flow with intermittent distal aortic compression during normoxia, hypoxic hypoxia, and hyperoxia in neonatal piglets. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: We investigated the hypothesis that, in a newborn piglet during normoxia, hypoxia, and hyperoxia, increasing aortic pressure transiently by intermittent short-duration aortic compression would affect left-to-right shunting of blood and thus increase pulmonary artery blood flow, pulmonary arterial PO2, and aortic PO2 proximal to the point of compression. We also investigated whether a balloon atrial septostomy, by providing an open channel for communication between the right- and left-sided circulations, would further improve pulmonary blood flow and aortic PO2. Studies were performed in eight 7- to 10-day-old newborn piglets in three phases (FIO2 of 0.21, 0.12, and 1.0) before and after balloon arterial septostomy in each piglet. Blood gas measurements and hemodynamic variables were recorded before and at the end of a 30-sec period of aortic compression. RESULTS: During aortic compression, all the animals demonstrated a 50 to 70 mm Hg increase in aortic pressure proximal to the compression. Before balloon septostomy, there were 21%, 41%, and 8% increases in aortic PO2 in the room air, hypoxic, and hyperoxic phases of the experiment, respectively. There were also statistically significant increments in pulmonary blood flow and arterial pressures. After balloon septostomy, there were 35%, 25%, and 21% increments in aortic PO2 during the room air, hypoxic, and hyperoxic phases of the experiment, respectively. However, there was no statistically significant further improvement in the effects of aortic compression on PO2 with septostomy compared with those effects before septostomy. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that increasing systemic arterial pressures in order to forcibly affect left-to-right shunting of blood may be potentially beneficial in the management of hypoxia in situations where low pulmonary artery blood flow may be contributing to hypoxia, e.g., in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. 
Thromboembolism prophylaxis. Choosing the proper method for surgical patients. The primary care physician can play a major role in preoperative consultation in terms of assisting the surgical team to reduce the risk of thromboembolism. A preoperative risk assessment takes into account the type and duration of surgery as well as the existence of risk factors such as age and underlying medical conditions. With careful communication, the consulting physician and surgical team can together select a method of preventing thromboembolism that will prove both safe and effective. 
Comparison of effects of thrombolytic therapy on left ventricular function in patients over with those under 60 years of age. This study examined the effect of age on left ventricular (LV) function, assessed by contrast ventriculography 3 weeks after a first acute myocardial infarction in 312 patients who received thrombolytic therapy within 4 hours of the onset of infarction and in 83 patients who received placebo. Streptokinase was given to 188 patients and recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) to 124. Patients were divided into 2 age groups: less than 60 years (n = 244) and greater than or equal to 60 years (n = 151). Thrombolytic therapy improved ejection fraction in both age groups: from 54 +/- 13 to 59 +/- 11% (p = 0.021) in the younger group and from 50 +/- 14 to 57 +/- 13% (p = 0.004) in the older group. Ejection fraction was identical in streptokinase- and rt-PA-treated patients. Multifactor analysis of variance revealed that younger age and thrombolytic therapy were independently associated with improved ejection fraction. Thrombolytic therapy also reduced end-systolic volume (p = 0.001) by 14 ml in the elderly and 9 ml in the younger group. Minor bleeding complications were more frequent in the elderly and 3 serious hemorrhages occurred in patients greater than or equal to 60 years. These findings reveal that thrombolysis improves LV function in all age groups studied. Because increasing age is independently associated with a lower ejection fraction after acute myocardial infarction, thrombolytic therapy may confer greater benefits in older patients. 
Tubal occlusion after inguinal hernia repair. A case report. Midtubal occlusion and infertility occurred subsequent to an inguinal hernia repair. Recognition of the traumatic etiology is important because other causes of midtubal obstruction, such as endometriosis, tuberculosis and adenomatoid tumor of the oviduct, may be considered contraindications to reconstructive surgery. Once recognized, the condition is highly amendable to microsurgical reconstruction. 
HDL, HDL2, and HDL3 subfractions, and the risk of acute myocardial infarction. A prospective population study in eastern Finnish men. BACKGROUND. We investigated the association of cholesterol concentrations in serum high density lipoprotein (HDL) and its subfractions HDL2 and HDL3 with the risk of acute myocardial infarction in 1,799 randomly selected men 42, 48, 54, or 60 years old. METHODS AND RESULTS. Baseline examinations in the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study were done during 1984-1987. In Cox multivariate survival models adjusted for age and examination year, serum HDL cholesterol of less than 1.09 mmol/l (42 mg/dl) was associated with a 3.3-fold risk of acute myocardial infarction (95% confidence intervals [CI], 1.7-6.4), serum HDL2, cholesterol of less than 0.65 mmol/l (25 mg/dl) was associated with a 4.0-fold risk of acute myocardial infarction (95% CI, 1.9-8.3), and serum HDL3 cholesterol of less than 0.40 mmol/l (15 mg/dl) was associated with a 2.0-fold (95% CI, 1.1-4.0) risk of acute myocardial infarction. Adjustments for obesity, ischemic heart disease, other cardiovascular disease, maximal oxygen uptake, systolic blood pressure, antihypertensive medication, serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride concentrations reduced the excess risks associated with serum HDL, HDL2, and HDL3 cholesterol in the lowest quartiles by 52%, 48%, and 41%, respectively. Additional adjustments for alcohol consumption, cigarettes smoked daily, smoking years, and leisure time energy expenditure reduced these excess risks associated with low HDL, HDL2, and HDL3 cholesterol levels by another 26%, 24% and 21%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. Our data confirm that both total HDL and HDL2 levels have inverse associations with the risk of acute myocardial infarction and may thus be protective factors in ischemic heart disease, whereas the role of HDL3 remains equivocal. 
Unilateral pulmonary oedema of the contralateral lung following transaxillary sympathectomy. A previously healthy young male developed unilateral pulmonary oedema immediately after re-expansion of an intentionally collapsed lung after transaxillary sympathectomy. The pulmonary oedema was localised to the contralateral, uncollapsed lung. 
Calcium metabolism and dietary calcium in salt sensitive hypertension. Evidence has accumulated over the past decade that suggests a relationship between low calcium intake, abnormalities in cation metabolism and hypertension in certain segments of the essential hypertension population. This evidence has been developed from epidemiological data, calcium intervention trials and observations related to biochemical alterations suggestive of a calcium deficiency in certain patients with hypertension and in animal models of essential hypertension. It is becoming increasingly evident that salt sensitive individuals are especially likely to be characterized by abnormalities of calcium metabolism and blood pressure responses to dietary calcium. In this review the role of calcium in the regulation of blood pressure is examined with an emphasis on epidemiological, biochemical, hemodynamic and dietary intervention data in the salt sensitive hypertensive patient. 
Epidemiology of acute rheumatic fever in a multiethnic, multiracial urban community: the Miami-Dade County experience. During the mid-1980s, several US communities experienced outbreaks of acute rheumatic fever (ARF), often involving predominantly white, middle-class individuals living in suburban or rural settings. The medical records of all patients diagnosed with ARF in Miami-Dade County, Florida, between 1984 and 1988 were reviewed. Thirty-five cases met the revised Jones criteria and were considered definite; four additional cases were classified as probable. Carditis was present in 54%. Of the 39 patients, 32 (82%) were black. The annual incidence of ARF among black children aged 5-14 years was 12.25 per 100,000 compared to 0.71 for other (non-Hispanic white plus Hispanic) children (P less than .001). ARF was centered in the inner city, where the incidence among black children reached 15.21. Despite the multiethnic, multiracial character of Miami-Dade County and the rapid influx of immigrants, ARF in this community remains primarily a disease of underprivileged, black inner-city children. 
The role of platelet activating factor and its antagonists in shock, sepsis and multiple organ failure. PAF has been implicated as a mediator of shock, sepsis and MOF. The results of experimental data demonstrate that PAF induces changes characteristic of endotoxemia and sepsis, including systemic hypotension and diffuse microvascular leakage. These effects are prevented by PAF antagonists. PAF induces many of the characteristic changes of MOF, including functional impairment in the lung, kidney, gastrointestinal tract and heart. PAF antagonists will inhibit these adverse effects. PAF antagonists are now being manufactured by a number of pharmaceutical companies studying the beneficial effects of PAF antagonists in human disease. Data from these studies promise valuable information with significant clinical relevance to the practicing surgeon. 
Prevalence and malignant potential of colorectal polyps in asymptomatic, average-risk men. Screening colonoscopy was performed on 119 asymptomatic elderly men with no other risk factors for colonic neoplasms. Ninety adenomas were detected in 49 (41%) subjects. Mean adenoma size was 6.5 mm, with 83 (92%) less than or equal to 10 mm. Forty-nine (54%) adenomas were located proximal to the splenic flexure, and 17 (19%) were classified as tubulovillous or villous. Moderate- to high-grade dysplasia was found in 29 (32%) adenomas and was associated with larger size (p less than 0.0001) and villous architecture (p = 0.0038). Two subjects harbored adenomas with invasive cancer. Seventy-one hyperplastic polyps were found in 40 (34%) subjects. The mean size of hyperplastic polyps was 3.4 mm, and 64 (90%) were located in the left colon. We conclude that, in this population, adenomas are common lesions that are frequently small. However, substantial proportions of these adenomas may be at risk for malignant degeneration due to the presence of villous architecture and higher grades of dysplasia. Because adenomas and hyperplastic polyps are endoscopically indistinguishable, all polyps found at endoscopy should be removed or ablated. 
Large molecular form of serum HBeAg in chronic hepatitis B virus infection: relation to liver cell damage. We have separated circulating HBeAg into small and large molecular forms by agarose gel electrophoresis and analyzed the relationship between the two forms and other clinical features of chronic hepatitis B, especially in regard to liver cell damage. The large HBeAg accounted for 7.3% +/- 3.4% of serum HBeAg in 9 subjects with normal liver histological findings or nonspecific reactive hepatitis, 38.0% +/- 27.8% in 32 patients with chronic persistent hepatitis and 65.6% +/- 23.3% in 21 patients with chronic active hepatitis (p less than 0.01). A positive correlation was seen between the height of aminotransferase elevations and the percentage of large HBeAg. Three patients who progressed from histologically normal liver or nonspecific reactive hepatitis to chronic active hepatitis had dramatic increases in the percentage of large HBeAg. The finding that the presence of large HBeAg in serum correlated with the severity of hepatitis suggests that HBeAg may play an important role in determining the degree of liver injury in chronic hepatitis B. 
Flecainide acetate prevents recurrence of symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. The Flecainide Supraventricular Tachycardia Study Group Oral flecainide acetate was administered to 34 patients with documented symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) with a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 8-week crossover trial design. PSVT was defined as a regular tachycardia of at least 120 beats/min without evidence of atrioventricular dissociation. The study required considerable patient cooperation. Patients first entered a 4-week qualifying phase followed by a 3-week, open label, flecainide dose-ranging phase. They were then randomized in a blind fashion to receive either placebo or tolerated flecainide dose for an 8-week treatment period and then crossed over after four symptomatic documented episodes of PSVT or at the end of the treatment period. By all efficacy parameters analyzed, flecainide was superior to placebo. Flecainide was associated with an actuarial 79% freedom from symptomatic PSVT events compared with only 15% on placebo at 60 days (p less than 0.001). Of the 34 patients, 29 had recurrence of symptomatic PSVT at least once during the placebo phase; only eight patients had a recurrence during the flecainide phase (p less than 0.001). The median time to the first symptomatic PSVT event was 11 days in the placebo group and greater than 55 days in the flecainide group (p less than 0.001). Likewise, the interval between attacks was a median of 12 days on placebo compared with more than 55 days on flecainide (p less than 0.001). Finally, the flecainide slowed symptomatic PSVT heart rates to 143 +/- 12 beats/min from 178 +/- 12 on placebo (p less than 0.02) in the seven patients who had events in the placebo and flecainide treatment phases. 
Laser laparoscopic vagotomy and pyloromyotomy. We performed bilateral truncal vagotomy and gastric drainage procedure using standard laparoscopic instruments in five mongrel dogs. The procedure consisted of a transthoracic thoracoscopic bilateral truncal vagotomy and transperitoneal laparoscopic pyloromyotomy. A contact Nd:YAG laser fiber was used. There was no mortality, minimal morbidity, and post-operative gastric emptying was satisfactory. Pathologic studies indicated vagotomy was complete. We believe that this may be the initial step in the development of a simple, safe, and effective endoscopic procedure for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. 
Relation of stenosis resolution pressure to long-term clinical outcome after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Variables associated with a poor long-term prognosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) include a short duration of symptoms before PTCA, unstable angina and the presence of thrombus at the PTCA site. These imply a component of transient or dynamic obstruction as opposed to a pure fixed obstruction. It is postulated that resolution pressure (i.e., the pressure at which complete balloon inflation occurs) may also correlate with prognosis after successful PTCA. In 173 consecutive patients undergoing successful, elective, single-lesion PTCA, 48 (28%) were found to have narrowings that resolved at less than or equal to 2 atm (group 1) and 125 (72%) were found to have narrowings resolved at greater than 2 atm (group 2). There were no significant differences in baseline, anatomic or procedural variables between the 2 groups, except that angiographic coronary dissection occurred in 17% of group 1 patients versus 40% of group 2 patients (p less than 0.007). During a mean follow-up of 12.0 +/- 6.1 months, the incidence of cardiac events (repeat PTCA, coronary artery bypass grafting or myocardial infarction) was 29% in group 1 versus 15% in group 2 (p less than 0.05). The overall incidence of angina was similar between the groups (25 vs 28%), but Canadian Cardiovascular Association class 4 angina occurred significantly more frequently in group 1 than group 2 (21 vs 8%) (p less than 0.04). These data suggest that a low resolution pressure is associated with a higher incidence of unstable angina and recurrent cardiac events during follow-up than higher resolution pressures. 
Pharmacologic therapy for fetal arrhythmias. Although great strides have been made in diagnosing fetal cardiac anatomic and functional abnormalities, in utero cardiac therapy is limited to the treatment of significant arrhythmias. The fetal prognosis may change if the dysrhythmia persists or if the condition results in intrauterine heart failure. When either complication is evident, intrauterine drug therapy may be indicated if the fetus is considered too immature for delivery. Information from case reports has shown several drugs to be useful to cardiovert the fetus, with digitalis being the pharmacologic agent used most often. At present, treatment consists mainly of transplacental administration of antiarrhythmic agents with the object of normalizing FHR and rhythm and abolishing, or preventing, fetal cardiac failure. Various agents have been used with variable success. More direct fetal therapy by intramuscular injection or umbilical vein infusion may replace unsuccessful indirect maternal therapy. It is unclear why some fetuses respond (or appear to respond) and others have hydrops and die in the absence of congenital heart disease or documented infection. With proper therapy, many fetuses survive and have a satisfactory prognosis, depending on the form of arrhythmia and the nature of any cardiac structural defects. 
The stratification of cardiac surgical procedures according to use of blood products: a retrospective analysis of 1480 cases. The use of blood products in 1480 consecutive cases of adult cardiac surgical procedures over a period of 15 mth was studied retrospectively using the database of the Department of Anaesthesia of the Institut de Cardiologie de Montreal. Use of blood products was compared in patients having (1) coronary artery bypass grafting, (2) valvular surgery, (3) or a combination of 1 and 2. First operations were compared with reoperations. Overall, the use of homologous blood products was greatest in patients of Group 3, intermediate in patients of Group 2, and smallest in patients of Group 1. Reoperations were associated with an increase in intraoperative transfusion of packed red blood cells, but postoperative chest drainage was similar to first operations. When all blood products (packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma and platelets) were taken into consideration, patients undergoing primary CABG or valve surgery were the least exposed to homologous blood donors (five and six units transfused respectively). Repeat CABG was associated with an intermediate exposure to homologous blood products (eight units). Finally, primary and repeat combined procedures, and repeat valve surgery were associated with the greatest exposure to foreign blood products (10, 13 and 10 units respectively). The data presented in this study provide a rational basis for stratification of procedures according to the expected use of blood products, particularly in view of future studies which may be planned to examine the efficiency of blood conservation strategies. 
Abnormal blood pressure response to exercise in borderline hypertension. A two year follow-up study. Twenty-eight men with borderline hypertension according to the World Health Organization criteria underwent maximal exercise testing, and then were followed for a two year period. The prevalence of abnormal blood pressure behavior during exercise was 53.58% (n = 15). During follow-up established hypertension developed in 63.33% (n = 10) of subjects with an abnormal blood pressure response to exercise, and only in 15% (n = 2) of subjects with normal blood pressure behavior. In predicting established hypertension development in a two year follow-up, maximal exercise testing has the following statistical values: sensitivity = 83.33%, specificity = 68.75%, accuracy = 75%, positive predictive value = 66.66%, negative predictive value = 84.61%. 
Neo-adjuvant (pre-emptive) cisplatin therapy in invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Following 2 pilot studies which showed 57 and 61% response rates to intravenous cisplatin for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder prior to definitive treatment, the West Midlands Urological Research Group (WMURG) and the Australian Bladder Cancer Study Group (ABCSG) independently began randomised trials to test the survival benefit of neo-adjuvant intravenous cisplatin prior to radiotherapy in T2-T4 M0 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Both trials failed to recruit their target numbers of 250 patients in the West Midlands and 320 in Australia. Since they had similar treatment protocols and eligibility criteria, they were combined in an overview analysis, achieving a total number of 255 patients. Each treatment group was compared with its own control group and the differences were pooled to give an overall result. There was no difference in survival between treated and control patients. The odds ratio was 1.13 with the control groups faring marginally better than the chemotherapy groups. Even with 255 patients the 95% confidence interval of the odds ratio was wide (0.80-1.57). Although there is no clear evidence of a clinically worthwhile benefit from neo-adjuvant cisplatin, this approach must be tested in a larger study using combination treatments with greater activity in metastatic disease. 
Coronary capillaries in patients with congestive cardiomyopathy or angina pectoris with patent main coronary arteries. Ultrastructural morphometry of endomyocardial biopsy samples. BACKGROUND. The coronary microvasculature may be abnormal even in the presence of angiographically normal epicardial arteries. Abnormalities of small coronary vessels have been invoked as a cause of angina. METHODS AND RESULTS. To quantitatively evaluate the morphology of capillaries in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or the syndrome of angina and small vessel disease (SVD), we performed electron microscopic morphometry of capillaries in right ventricular biopsy samples taken from 32 patients. Ten had angina, normal epicardial coronary arteries, and evidence for SVD; 12 had DCM; and 10 had normal hearts. In patients with DCM, the ratio of microvessels to myocytes was not different than that of controls (0.49 +/- 0.06 versus 0.51 +/- 0.05). Mean cross-sectional areas of the capillaries (lumen plus wall) and lumen were significantly greater than those of controls (45.3 +/- 15.1 versus 22.7 +/- 8.3 micron 2, p less than 0.001; 17.6 +/- 6.9 versus 11.6 +/- 6.2 micron 2, p less than 0.05, respectively). Fibrous content of the myocardium, as assessed by quantitative light microscopy, was significantly increased (16.3 +/- 3.3% versus 5.0 +/- 2.4%, p less than 0.001). In contrast, in patients with SVD, the capillary-to-myocyte ratio was reduced (0.33 +/- 0.08, p less than 0.001). Although mean cross-sectional areas of the entire capillary (32.4 +/- 19.7 micron 2) and the lumen (8.9 +/- 7.8 micron 2) were not statistically different than those of controls, there was an absence of capillaries less than 15 micron 2 in cross-sectional area, and the frequency distribution of the lumen area was skewed to the left. Swollen endothelial cells frequently encroached upon the lumen. There was a mild increase in fibrous content (9.5 +/- 3.7%, p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. Enlarged capillaries and a normal ratio of capillaries to myocytes appear to be features of DCM. Of the patients with SVD, there was both a relative lack of capillaries and capillary lumen narrowing from swollen endothelium. These changes may induce ischemia and angina and may result in mild fibrosis. 
Ectopic pituitary adenoma in the suprasellar cistern: case report. The case of a 56-year-old man with an ectopic pituitary adenoma is reported. Neurological examinations, neurodiagnostic imaging, surgical observation, endocrinological evaluation, histological examination, and immunohistological study demonstrated evidence of ectopic prolactinoma in the suprasellar cistern and the presence of a normal pituitary in the sella turcica. The patient underwent total removal of the suprasellar mass by a pterional approach, leading to a surgical and endocrinological cure. 
Basal ganglia mass lesions in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. A 2-year-old boy suffered aphasia, hypotonia, dystonia, and loss of activity and spontaneous speech during an active stage of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis with pericarditis, fever, anemia, and a high antinuclear antibody titer. These neurologic signs slowly improved with corticosteroid treatment but fluctuated over 1 year. The neuroimaging studies revealed irregular mass lesions in the basal ganglia bilaterally mainly involving the globus pallidus. They gradually decreased in size and almost disappeared after 1 year. A stereotactic brain biopsy revealed a slight proliferation of astrocytes. Chorioretinitis was also observed during the clinical course. A chronic inflammatory process involving cerebral vessels was suspected, although angiography did not demonstrate cerebral vasculitis. The possibility of central nervous system lymphoma could not be eliminated. The type of aphasia and the relation to the lesion sites are discussed. 
Dysmegakaryopoiesis resembling acute megakaryoblastic leukemia in treated acute myeloid leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by trilineage dysplasia, including atypical megakaryocytes. Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (FAB M7) is particularly associated with atypical megakaryocytic hyperplasia (AMH). Fifteen patients with nonmegakaryoblastic AML developed AMH after therapy, comprising 12.6% of cases of AML diagnosed from 1986 to 1989. Platelet counts were normal in nine patients and decreased in six. Blasts comprised less than 5% of cells in 40% of the biopsies, ranged from 5-15% in 53%, and comprised more than 30% of cells in 7%. Numerous small hypo- and hyperlobated megakaryocytes were seen in all specimens, often occurring in clusters, and were more easily seen in sections than in smears. Subsequent biopsies in 13 patients showed a remission marrow in seven, increased blasts in three, and AML in three; none showed AMH. AMH resembling acute megakaryoblastic leukemia may be seen transiently after treatment of AML. 
Bilateral cerebellopontine angle tumors in neurofibromatosis type 2. In a series of over 500 cases of cerebellopontine angle tumors, 19 patients had bilateral neurinomas. Four of these tumors arose from the facial rather than the acoustic nerve. A conservative policy regarding surgery had been adopted in an effort to prevent hearing loss for as long as possible. Nevertheless, all patients operated on in this series are now totally deaf. The results of managing these patients surgically and conservatively are discussed. 
Oestrogen receptor D5 antibody is an independent negative prognostic factor in gastric cancer. Recent studies have demonstrated oestrogen receptors in tissues other than those considered to be sex hormone responsive, for instance in gastric cancer. In vitro experiments have shown oestradiol to be trophic to gastric cancer cell lines. The effect of D5 (an oestrogen receptor-related protein) status on survival was therefore studied in a group of 188 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for gastric cancer. Ninety-two patients (49 per cent) were positive for the D5 antibody. There were no differences between the D5-positive and D5-negative groups for age or adverse prognostic features such as high grade tumours or advanced stage. The D5-negative patients had a significant survival advantage over the D5-positive patients. The 95 per cent confidence interval for survival in the patients with D5-negative tumours was 63-101 weeks compared with 39-66 weeks for the patients with D5-positive tumours (Mantel-Cox statistic = 4.15, P = 0.042). Prognostic factor analysis with a Cox proportional hazards model showed tumour stage (P = 0.001) and D5 status (P = 0.003) to be significant independent factors in gastric cancer. Lauren type, grade and gender were not significant independent factors in this small series. 
A modified neoglottis procedure: update and analysis. In recent years, various techniques have been introduced for construction of an epithelium-lined shunt between the trachea and the esophagus or hypopharynx. We described a rigid neoglottis in a preliminary report of 12 cases in which the upper tracheal rings were used to construct the epithelium-lined tract. This study reports the cases of 22 additional patients and offers an in-depth analysis of additional demographics, complications, and long-term speech results that quantify the vocal characteristics of neoglottic speakers. Results indicate rapid postoperative speech rehabilitation in nearly all patients, good long-term speech results (mean followup, 52 months), and low morbidity. There was a low incidence of local recurrence and stenosis, and 26 of 34 patients had either no aspiration or occasional asymptomatic aspiration of small amounts of liquid. This modified neoglottis procedure should be considered for patients who need voice restoration after laryngectomy. 
Intracellular calcium transients and arrhythmia in isolated heart cells. Intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) elevation may mediate cardiac arrhythmias. However, direct measurement of the rapid alterations of [Ca2+]i on a beat-to-beat basis using fast temporal resolution and without signal averaging in the spontaneously beating in vivo heart is lacking. Furthermore, data from an isolated spontaneously beating myocyte preparation that develops arrhythmia similar to that in the in vivo heart are unavailable. We measured rapid changes of [Ca2+]i with fast temporal resolution in isolated spontaneously beating neonatal rat ventricular myocytes with cell-to-cell communication and characterized the interrelation between [Ca2+]i and arrhythmia. An elevated extracellular calcium ([Ca2+]o) concentration of 10.8 mM induced premature beats, a rapid beating rate (tachyarrhythmia), and chaotic or fibrillatory beating activity in a small group of myocytes. [Ca2+]i levels during systole increased from the nanomolar to micromolar concentration range before arrhythmia development. Spontaneous oscillations of [Ca2+]i during diastole could evoke a spontaneous tachyarrhythmia. In the presence of [Ca2+]i elevation, a spontaneous tachyarrhythmia could induce severe [Ca2+]i overload. Reduction of [Ca2+]i with 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid AM (5 microM) in the presence of 10.8 mM [Ca2+]o reversed the arrhythmia. In single ventricular myocytes superfused with 10.8 mM [Ca2+]o, oscillations of membrane potential characteristic of transient inward current occurred that were prevented by ryanodine (0.1 microM), an inhibitor of Ca2+ flux across the sarcoplasmic reticulum. This study characterizes 1) an isolated multicellular myocyte model of arrhythmia similar to that evident in in vivo hearts, 2) elevation of [Ca2+]i with systolic [Ca2+]i levels of 1-3 microM and diastolic [Ca2+]i oscillations before the initiation of arrhythmia, 3) tachyarrhythmia as a cause of severe [Ca2+]i overload, which may be important in the perpetuation and degeneration of arrhythmias, and 4) reversal of arrhythmia with reduction of [Ca2+]i. The results in the isolated myocyte model may have relevance to the generation and perpetuation of certain cardiac arrhythmias associated with calcium overload. 
Quality assurance for patients with head injuries admitted to a regional trauma unit. The efficacy of trauma systems in reducing preventable deaths has been established but the methods of auditing care are still evolving. Various "audit filters" to identify which patients' charts should be reviewed have been proposed. An analysis of all patients admitted to the Regional Trauma Unit (RTU) over a 19-month period was conducted. Of 729 patients, 135 were identified as having suffered a traumatic intracranial hemorrhage (TICH). On review, neither delay in transfer from the emergency room to the operating room nor increasing time from the incident to the operating room correlated with increasing mortality. In contrast to delay, the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score on admission correlated well with outcome. The charts of patients with anomalous outcomes based on admission GCS score were reviewed, and two possibly preventable deaths were identified. There were 48 patients with TICH who had no operations but there were no deaths attributable to a missed operation. There were 76 patients for whom the GCS score at the referring hospital and the GCS score on admission to the RTU were available. Seven of 19 patients who worsened on transfer declined because of significant pulmonary injuries. Anomalous outcomes based on admission GCS score and declining GCS scores are recommended as quality assurance filters. 
Survival of patients with metastases from uveal melanoma. The authors evaluated a series of 145 consecutive patients with metastases from uveal melanoma, after proton beam irradiation, to assess the effect of early diagnosis and treatment for metastases on survival. Metastases were diagnosed between 7 weeks and 8.3 years (median, 2.4 years) after proton beam irradiation. Most patients (n = 94) were symptomatic before diagnosis; the remainder were first detected during screening examination. Liver involvement was documented in nearly all patients (n = 136). The majority of patients had died from metastases by the close of the study (n = 137). Significantly longer survival occurred among patients diagnosed during screening examination (P = 0.004) and among young patients (P = 0.03). The majority of patients received some form of treatment for metastases (69%). Median survival was 2.0 months for patients receiving no treatment compared with 5.2 months for those receiving treatment for metastases (P = .0001). However, the overall 1-year survival rate was poor (13%). Prophylactic adjuvant therapy could be explored as a means to increase disease-free survival in patients with uveal melanoma. 
Cardiac biopsy in patients with "primary" atrial fibrillation. Histologic evidence of occult myocardial diseases. Fourteen patients (ten men and four women; mean age, 37 years) with lone atrial fibrillation (AF) (1 to 18 months' duration) were evaluated by thyroid function tests, two-dimensional echocardiography, hemodynamics, coronary angiography, and left ventricular endomyocardial biopsy, because of unresponsiveness to the usual antiarrhythmic therapy. The results of the T3, T4, TSH, and TRH tests were normal in all patients; cardiac valves and ventricular and atrial sizes (left atrium less than 40 mm) were within the normal limits; also normal were LVEDP (less than or equal to 10 mm Hg) and EF (greater than 0.50). Histologic findings were abnormal in all cases, with three patients showing cardiomyopathic changes, three other patients showing active myocarditis (lymphocytic in two and eosinophilic in one), and eight patients with nonspecific necrosis or fibrosis or both. Steroids (prednisone; 50 mg/m2 of body surface area daily) used in addition to antiarrhythmic therapy in patients with eosinophilic and lymphocytic active myocarditis were able to cause reversion to sinus rhythm, while the other patients continued to have AF. This study documents that occult myocardial diseases (myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, and nonspecific necrosis or fibrosis) can underlie "primary" AF. The addition of steroids to antiarrhythmic therapy in patients with refractory AF and histologic evidence of active myocarditis seems to be useful in controlling the arrhythmia. 
Idiopathic scrotal calcinosis is idiopathic. The appearance of calcific masses within the dermis of scrotal skin is generally referred to as idiopathic scrotal calcinosis. There has been some debate about the pathogenesis of these calcium deposits. This debate centers on the question of whether the calcium deposition is truly idiopathic or whether it occurs as a result of preexisting epidermal cysts. We have performed immunohistochemical staining for keratin in nine patients with apparent idiopathic scrotal calcinosis and have found no evidence of keratin in the dermal tissue immediately adjacent to the calcium deposits. We conclude that idiopathic scrotal calcinosis is idiopathic. 
Benign familial neonatal convulsions: evidence for clinical and genetic heterogeneity. The gene for autosomal dominant "benign" familial neonatal convulsions, a transient, primary epilepsy of infancy, has recently been assigned to chromosome 20q. To determine whether this disorder is genetically heterogeneous, we performed linkage analysis in two previously unreported pedigrees with benign familial neonatal convulsions in which clinical heterogeneity was evident. There were 14 affected persons in the first family, and none had seizures (febrile or afebrile) after the age of 2 months. The second family had 13 affected individuals and 2 obligate carriers; seizures frequently did not remit until 6 to 24 months, febrile convulsions occurred in at least 2 patients, apparent audiogenic seizures occurred in 4 patients, and 1 individual had refractory epilepsy until late adolescence. Linkage studies with the chromosome 20 markers D20S19 and D20S20 were performed in both families. The resulting data favored linkage of the disease and marker loci in Family 2 by a maximum odds ratio of 45:1 at 6% recombination. In Family 1, however, the odds were greater than 20,000:1 against linkage at 10% recombination or less. We conclude that the syndrome of benign familial neonatal convulsions is clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Further study will be necessary to clarify the relationship between phenotype and genotype in this disorder. 
Alterations in the levels of iron, ferritin and other trace metals in Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases affecting the basal ganglia. Levels of iron, copper, zinc and manganese were measured by inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy in frozen postmortem brain tissue from patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy with strionigral degeneration (MSA), and Huntington's disease (HD) compared with control subjects. Total iron levels were found to be elevated in the areas of basal ganglia showing pathological change in these disorders. In particular, total iron content was increased in substantia nigra in PD, PSP and MSA, but not in HD. Total iron levels in the striatum (putamen and/or caudate nucleus) were increased in PSP, MSA and HD but not in PD. Total iron levels were decreased in the globus pallidus in PD. There were no consistent alterations of manganese levels in basal ganglia structures in any of the diseases studied. Copper levels were decreased in the substantia nigra in PD, and in the cerebellum in PSP, and were elevated in the putamen and possibly substantia nigra in HD. Zinc levels were only increased in PD, in substantia nigra and in caudate nucleus and lateral putamen. Levels of the iron binding protein ferritin were measured in the same patient groups using a radio-immunoassay technique. Increased iron levels in basal ganglia were generally associated with normal or elevated levels of ferritin immunoreactivity, for example, the substantia nigra in PSP and possibly MSA, and in putamen in MSA. The exception was PD where there was a generalized reduction in brain ferritin immunoreactivity, even in the substantia nigra. An increase in total iron content appears to be a response to neurodegeneration in affected basal ganglia regions in a number of movement disorders. However, only in PD was there an increased total iron level, decreased ferritin content, decreased copper content, and an increased zinc concentration in substantia nigra. These findings suggest an alteration of iron handling in the substantia nigra in PD. Depending on the form in which the excess iron load exists in nigra in PD, it may contribute to the neurodegenerative process. 
Identification of alloimmunized patients: use of radiolabeled allogeneic platelet kinetic measurements and platelet antibody tests. In a group of stable, nonthrombocytopenic leukemia patients awaiting bone marrow transplantation, results of paired allogeneic radiolabeled platelet kinetic measurements were correlated with the results of several different platelet and lymphocytotoxic antibody tests to determine which parameters could be used to identify patients who were alloimmunized to platelets. Seven patients with acute leukemia who had been transfused during induction therapy were used as the test group, and, as a control group, five untransfused patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia were also studied. Concurrent fibrinogen survival measurements were performed in all patients to assess whether hemostatic factor consumption (ie, disseminated intravascular coagulation) was present. Allogeneic platelet survival measurements were reduced from normal in all 12 study patients. In 8 of 12 patients, fibrinogen and platelet survival measurements were comparably reduced, suggesting disease-related platelet consumption. In four heavily transfused patients with acute leukemia, allogeneic platelet survivals were markedly reduced to less than or equal to 2.1 days, compared with the 3.5- to 7.4-day platelet survival measurements found in the other eight patients. The disproportionately short platelet survivals compared with fibrinogen survival measurements in these four patients, combined with documented positive antibody tests to their donors' platelets in the three patients with evaluable tests, suggested that these patients had become alloimmunized to platelets because of their prior transfusions. There was substantial concordance between the two radiolabeled allogeneic donor platelet survival measurements performed in each of these patients, suggesting that host rather than donor factors have a major influence on transfusion outcome (r = .93, P less than .001). The platelet cross-match tests, using the radiolabeled protein Staph A assay combined with the IgG enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, had the best correlation with the posttransfusion recovery and survival of the donors' platelets. 
Non-trauma mortality in elderly women with low bone mineral density. Study of Osteoporotic Fractures Research Group. 9704 ambulatory women aged 65 years or older were prospectively studied to determine whether low bone mineral density (osteopenia) was associated with mortality. Bone mineral density was measured at entry to the study by single-photon absorptiometry. 299 women died during a mean of 2.8 years' follow-up. Osteopenia was associated with increased non-trauma mortality, probably because it is a marker for several other adverse factors. Each standard deviation decrease in proximal radius bone mineral density (0.104 g/cm2) was associated with a 1.19-fold increase in mortality (95% confidence interval 1.04-1.36), adjusted for age and duration of follow-up. Diminished bone mineral density at the proximal radius was strongly associated with deaths from stroke (relative risk = 1.74; 95% CI 1.12-2.70), an association that was not confounded by history of previous stroke, hypertension, postmenopausal use of oestrogen, thiazide diuretic treatment, diabetes mellitus, and smoking. Most deaths in women with low bone mineral density are unrelated to the occurrence of fractures-an observation that should be taken into account when estimating the need for and cost-effectiveness of bone-density screening and fracture prevention programmes. 
The risks of metastases from shunting in children with primary central nervous system tumors. The authors reviewed the hospital charts of 415 pediatric patients treated for benign or malignant primary brain tumors over the past 20 years at the Children's Hospital Medical Center, Seattle. Patients' ages ranged from the neonatal period to 18 years. A shunt was placed in 152 patients (37%), 45 before and 94 after surgery. Confirmation of extraneural metastases was based on clinical and diagnostic examination. Factors analyzed as possibly influencing the occurrence of extraneural metastases were: 1) the shunt: type, valve, location, filter, and revisions; 2) extent of resection; 3) pathology; and 4) treatment regimen. Eight of the 415 patients developed extraneural metastases during life. All eight patients had a medulloblastoma (cerebellar primitive neuroectodermal tumor). These eight patients were separated into Group A (without a shunt) and Group B (with a shunt). In Group A (five patients), the mean interval from primary diagnosis to metastasis was 15 months. Two children had gross total resection of the tumor. The predominant location of metastases in Group A was: bone (two cases); cervical lymph nodes (one); lung/bone (one); and retroperitoneal pelvic mass (one). Three Group A patients had a simultaneous central nervous system (CNS) recurrence. Of the three Group B patients, two had a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt and one a ventriculoatrial (VA) shunt; all were placed postoperatively. One Group B patient had a simultaneous CNS recurrence. No shunt revisions were performed in these three patients. The mean time from primary diagnosis to metastasis was 25 months. One patient had a total tumor resection. The predominant location of metastases was bone (one case), retroperitoneal pelvic mass (one), and abdominal cavity with ascites (one case). Only one patient in the entire series had a filter placed; this resulted in shunt obstruction and was removed 1 month following placement. It is concluded that cerebrospinal fluid shunts, regardless of type, location, revision rate, or filter insertion, do not predispose pediatric patients with brain tumors to develop extraneural metastases. A diagnosis of shunt-related metastases should be based on the development of intra-abdominal (VP shunt) or pulmonary (VA shunt) dissemination primarily with or without additional sites. The diagnosis of medulloblastoma is an important factor related to metastasis occurrence while the extent of resection and postoperative therapy are not influential. 
Prognostic factors in advanced head and neck cancer patients undergoing multimodality therapy. A retrospective analysis was performed to investigate potential prognostic factors for complete remission to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and overall survival in patients with previously untreated stage III and stage IV head and neck cancer. Eighty consecutive patients were treated in one of two studies investigating three or four courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Before local therapy and surgery and/or radiotherapy, 29% attained a complete remission. No strong significant and independent predictor of complete remission was identified. Only nodal stage (N) was found moderately associated with complete remission (p = 0.06). Node-negative patients had higher remission rates. Less important predictors were tumor stage (T) and site of disease; nasopharyngeal patients had superior remission rates (56%). With a median followup of 45 months and estimated 3-year survival rate of 38% (median 23.7 months), individual factors predictive of survival included pretherapy weight loss, performance status, alcohol use, pretherapy serum albumin level, site of disease, and N stage. In multivariate testing weight loss was identified as the strongest independent predictor of survival (p less than 0.0001) and surpassed other health status measures, such as performance status and serum albumin level. In addition, N stage (p = 0.019) and alcohol use (p = 0.017) were found to be predictive. A cross-classification by N stage and weight loss revealed risk groups with distinctly different prognoses, which may be useful for design and analysis in future trials. 
Hip disarticulation: factors affecting outcome. Hip disarticulation, especially in patients with peripheral vascular disease, has been associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. This report describes patient characteristics that influence the clinical outcome of hip disarticulation. The medical records of all patients undergoing hip disarticulation from 1966 to 1989 were reviewed for surgical indication, perioperative wound complications, and postoperative deaths. Fifty-three patients underwent hip disarticulation for limb ischemia (10), infection (12), infection and ischemia (14), or tumor (17). The overall incidence of wound complications was 60%, and no significant differences were found among the groups. Prior above-knee amputation and urgent/emergent operations were significantly associated with increased wound complications (p less than 0.05). The overall mortality rate was 21%, ranging from 0% (tumor) to 50% (ischemia) and differed significantly among the groups (p less than 0.02). Mortality was significantly associated with urgent/emergent operations (p less than 0.01). Age, diabetes mellitus, and previous inflow procedures did not influence mortality rates. The presence of limb ischemia influenced mortality rates to a greater extent than did infection, and a history of cardiac disease was statistically predictive of death. Wound complications frequently accompanied hip disarticulation, regardless of operative indication, and were significantly increased by urgent/emergent operations and prior above-knee amputation. Hip disarticulation can be performed with low mortality rates in selected patients. Both limb ischemia and infection substantially increase operative mortality rates. 
Aspirin does not inhibit cholesterol cholelithiasis in two established animal models. The effect of aspirin on cholesterol cholelithiasis was examined in the hamster and the prairie dog. In the prairie dog, diets were composed of semipurified components of chow, plus cholesterol (1.2%), with and without aspirin. Animals were studied for either 2 weeks or 4 weeks. Cholesterol gallstones were present in all groups at the end of each period; aspirin did not alter the incidence of cholelithiasis. All animals studied had cholesterol crystals in the bile when they were killed. Liver cholesterol levels in prairie dogs with and without aspirin tended to be lower in animals fed chow than in animals fed semipurified diets. There were no significant differences in cholesterol levels in the plasma or bile. The cholesterol saturation index of all biles approached unity when animals were fed chow with aspirin; animals fed the semipurified diets had cholesterol saturation indices of less than 1.0. The prairie dogs fed aspirin plus cholesterol in the semipurified diet showed increased levels of biliary chenodeoxycholic acid amidates and concomitant decreased levels of cholic acid amidates compared with animals fed the same diet without aspirin. Hamsters fed aspirin plus cholesterol in a semipurified diet tended to have a greater incidence of gallstones than animals given no aspirin (80% vs. 55%). Liver and bile cholesterol levels were similar with and without aspirin; plasma cholesterol levels increased significantly with aspirin [14.20 vs. 7.80 mmol/L (549 vs. 301 mg/dL)]. Lithogenic indices in all hamsters were above unity; biliary lipids, total lipid concentration, and biliary bile acid composition were similar. These results show that the addition of aspirin to a lithogenic diet does not reduce the incidence of cholelithiasis. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysms complicated by spontaneous iliocaval or duodenal fistulae. Seven hundred and twenty one abdominal aortic aneurysms were treated between 1960 and 1985. Twenty one of these (2.9%) were complicated by the development of a spontaneous primary fistula, 16 (2.2%) into the vena cava or iliac veins and 5 (0.7%) into the duodenum. A correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only four instances, two aorto-caval and two aorto-duodenal fistulae. Hospital mortality was 44% for aorto-caval and 60% for aorto-duodenal fistulae. Despite the lack of a precise preoperative diagnosis in the majority of cases, the prognosis for aorto-caval fistula remained comparable to that for patients undergoing emergency surgery for uncomplicated ruptured aortic aneurysms. The mortality of spontaneous aorto-duodenal fistulae was appreciably higher and the aneurysmal contents of 4 out of these 5 cases had positive bacterial cultures. 
Hepatoid adenocarcinoma of the renal pelvis producing alpha-fetoprotein of hepatic type and bile pigment. A right renal pelvic mass in a 72-year-old man was resected. The histologic appearance of the tumor was a mixture of tubular adenocarcinoma cells and hepatoid neoplastic cells, and there was a resemblance to hepatoid adenocarcinoma. The intraoperative level of serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was calculated to be 2246 ng/ml, and the postoperative level ranges from 183.6 to 285.6 ng/ml. Lectin binding assays showed that the serum AFP was the hepatic carcinoma type. In a hepatoid portion, an iron-negative, brown to green pigment was positive for bile. Alpha-fetoprotein was immunohistochemically evident in the neoplastic cells. In addition to the hepatic differentiation, the tumor had differentiated into intestinal absorptive or pancreatobiliary tract cells, as deduced from the frequent presence of spicular bodies, a unique light microscopic feature equivalent to microvilli with an actin core. The hepatoid adenocarcinoma is a distinct type of AFP-producing carcinoma present in the organs with epithelium of endodermal origin. Hepatoid adenocarcinoma in the renal pelvis may arise from a metaplasia of neoplastic mesonephric cells into endodermal cells. 
Azoospermia: a complication of hydrocele repair in a fertile population. Although minor complications have been reported, hydrocelectomy generally is considered to be a safe procedure. We recently treated 3 patients who became azoospermic after hydrocele repair. Of the patients 2 underwent bilateral and 1 unilateral hydrocelectomy. All 3 patients had iatrogenic injury to the vas deferens or epididymis after hydrocele repair. 
Cholesterol screening and life assurance. OBJECTIVES--To examine how insurance companies assess proposals for life assurance from applicants with raised cholesterol concentrations and to determine the excess mortality rating applied. DESIGN--Survey of 49 companies underwriting term life assurance. SETTING--United Kingdom. SUBJECTS--Four fictional men aged 30 seeking 20 year term policies paying benefit only on death. Two had total cholesterol concentrations of 6.4 and 8.1 mmol/l but no other cardiovascular risk factors; one was overweight, hypertensive, smoked 20 cigarettes daily, and had a total cholesterol concentration of 8.1 mmol/l; and one had possible familial hypercholesterolaemia and a total cholesterol concentration of 10.7 mmol/l after treatment. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Percentage excess mortality rating. RESULTS--All companies used explicit criteria to assess the mortality risk associated with hyperlipidaemias, and 47 companies applied the same criteria to men and women. No excess mortality rating was imposed on an applicant with a total cholesterol concentration of 6.4 mmol/l, but a small excess was applied to an applicant with a concentration of 8.1 mmol/l (median excess 50%, range 0-75%). When multiple cardiovascular risk factors were present the same concentration of 8.1 mmol/l resulted in a substantial excess (median 135%, range 50-200%). A smaller but more variable excess was applied to an applicant with possible familial hypercholesterolaemia (median 75%, range 0-200%). CONCLUSIONS--Despite considerable differences among companies in the excess mortality ratings applied, increases in term life assurance premiums are likely to be restricted to patients with severe hypercholesterolaemia, in particular those with familial hypercholesterolaemia. In the absence of other cardiovascular risk factors milder hypercholesterolaemia is unlikely to result in higher premiums. 
The coexistence of tics and dystonia. We studied nine patients with motor and phonic tics and other features of Tourette's syndrome, who developed persistent dystonia in addition to their tics. All, except one, were males (mean age, 35.8 years; range, 8 to 59 years), and had onset of tics prior to age 18 years (mean age, 9 years; range, 1.5 to 17 years). None of the patients were treated with neuroleptic drugs prior to the onset of dystonia. Torticollis and blepharospasm were the most common forms of dystonia. Seven patients had a history of tics in first degree relatives. While these patients were seen in a specialized movement disorder clinic and may, therefore, represent a population with atypical and more severe symptoms, the high prevalence rate of dystonia (5.0% of all patients with Tourette's syndrome seen in the clinic) suggests that some patients with tics may have an increased risk for dystonia. 
Cyclophosphamide plus cisplatin versus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin chemotherapy of ovarian carcinoma: a meta-analysis. The Ovarian Cancer Meta-Analysis Project. Four randomized clinical trials comparing cyclophosphamide plus cisplatin (CP) versus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (CAP) individually failed to show a significant survival difference in the treatment of ovarian carcinoma. However, by pooling 1,194 patients from these trials in a meta-analysis, there is a statistically significant survival benefit for CAP (P = .02); in addition, there is a significant advantage for CAP in frequency of negative second-look laparotomy (CAP, 30%; CP, 23%; P = .01). Because the dose intensity of CAP was greater than CP in three of the trials, it remains unresolved to what extent the benefit of CAP is from greater dose intensity and to what extent it is from the doxorubicin itself. Either interpretation suggests directions for improving the chemotherapy of ovarian carcinoma. 
Response of newly established mouse myeloid leukemic cell lines to MC3T3-G2/PA6 preadipocytes and hematopoietic factors. Some mouse myeloid leukemias induced by X-irradiation and serially transplanted into syngenic mice do not proliferate in vitro even in the presence of hematopoietic factors. To examine whether such leukemic cells can proliferate in response to stromal cells, we cocultured them with MC3T3-G2/PA6 (PA6) preadipocytes, cells that can support the growth of hematopoietic stem cells. All leukemias developed into in vitro cell lines, showing a dependence on contact with the PA6 cells. Two cell lines responded to none of the known hematopoietic factors including interleukin-3 (IL-3), IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, GM-CSF, G-CSF, M-CSF, and Epo. These results demonstrate that the mechanism of the action of PA6 cells is different from that of any of the known hematopoietic factors, and that, because these two leukemic cell lines retained the ability to grow in vivo, responsiveness to the known hematopoietic factors is not essential for the leukemic cell growth in vivo. Furthermore, all leukemic cell lines could respond also to the preadipocytes fixed with formalin, paraformaldehyde, or glutaraldehyde, suggesting that some molecule(s) associated with the surface of PA6 cells or with extracellular matrix secreted by the preadipocytes is responsible for the leukemic cell growth. 
Causes of death in patients with tuberous sclerosis. Of the 355 patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) examined at the Mayo Clinic, 49 had died (9 of causes other than TSC). We attempted to determine what pattern of organ involvement occurred most often in the 40 patients who died of TSC. One baby died of cardiac failure due to cardiac rhabdomyomas, and one child died of rupture of an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. Eleven patients died of renal disease, which was the commonest cause of death. Ten patients died as a result of brain tumors, and four patients (who were 40 years of age or older) died of lymphangiomyomatosis of the lung. Thirteen patients with severe mental handicaps died of either status epilepticus or bronchopneumonia; in all but one of these patients, the only source of information was the death certificate. Survival curves show a decreased survival for patients with TSC in comparison with that for the general population. Patients with TSC need lifelong follow-up for early detection of potentially life-threatening complications. 
Syringoid eccrine carcinoma. Eccrine carcinomas are locally aggressive and have an infiltrative growth pattern. They have a variable clinical appearance and a diversity of histologic findings that often make the diagnosis difficult. The histologic findings, together with immunoperoxidase and enzyme histochemical studies, usually allow differentiation between eccrine carcinomas, other cutaneous neoplasms, and visceral adenocarcinomas with skin metastases. Provided there is no evidence of distant metastases, surgical excision is the treatment of choice. We report a case of syringoid eccrine carcinoma that was treated with Mohs micrographic surgery. 
Reinforced sternal closure. A technique of reinforced sternal closure with stainless steel struts is described. Stable sternum avoids severe complications such as mediastinitis and sternal dehiscence. 
Recurrent varicella-zoster virus infections in apparently immunocompetent children. Fourteen generally healthy children (5 females, 9 males, ages 18 months to 13 years) who have developed 2 to 5 attacks of chickenpox are described. Herpes zoster also occurred in 2 of 14 children. No case of chickenpox was severe or associated with complications. General studies of immunoglobulins, specific antibodies to immunization agents, complement and lymphocyte subpopulation number and function indicated that 1 of 14 had low serum IgA and 3 of 14 lacked antibody to 1 (n = 2) or 2 (n = 1) immunization agents. Varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-specific immune studies showed that the children developed VZV-antibody titers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of 1:640 to 1:10 240. By immunoblot assay all appeared to develop a normal spectrum of antibodies to individual VZV proteins. All but one developed VZV cellular immune responses with stimulation indices ranging from 3.6 to 174. Sequential follow-up of 8 patients revealed 1 who became seronegative and 2 who lost VZV cell-mediated immune responses. Chickenpox may recur more frequently than is generally recognized. General and VZV-specific immune investigations are unlikely to indicate a reason. 
Cervical implantation metastasis by endometrial adenocarcinoma. A distinct type of cervical involvement by endometrial cancer is reported and termed cervical implantation metastasis. It is believed to result from implantation of endometrial cancer on the denuded endocervix after fractional dilatation and curettage (D & C). The histologic criteria for diagnosis are: (1) the cervical implantation metastasis must be imbedded in the endocervical epithelium or superficial stroma surrounded by an implantation site of inflammatory cells and granulation tissue (free-floating cancer cells above the cervical mucosa are not acceptable as implantation tissue), (2) the histologic findings of the cervical implantation metastasis must be similar to those of the endometrial adenocarcinoma in the uterine corpus, (3) the cervical implantation metastasis must be separate from the primary tumor with no evidence of direct extension, and (4) the cervical implantation metastasis should be surrounded by nonneoplastic endocervical glands with no transition between the two. Of the 176 patients who underwent fractional D & C before hysterectomy, nine (5%) were found to have cervical implantation metastasis. No patients had cervical implantation metastasis who did not undergo fractional D & C before hysterectomy. When stratified according to stage, grade, and myometrial invasion, there was no statistically significant difference in the recurrence rate between patients with or without cervical implantation metastasis. It appears that cervical implantation metastasis does not alter prognosis or require specific treatment. 
Thoracic outlet syndrome caused by tumor of the first rib. We report a new case of thoracic outlet syndrome caused by a tumor of the first rib and review 11 other reports found in the literature. A 25-year-old man was admitted with thoracic outlet syndrome in the C8-T1 nerve roots. The first rib was removed through a supraclavicular approach with excision of the medial clavicle. All symptoms disappeared. On histologic examination fibrous dysplasia was found in the rib. Tumors of the first rib are uncommon and are rarely responsible for thoracic outlet syndrome. When the tumor is very large, as in our case, we recommend a supraclavicular approach associated with excision of the medial clavicle. During the liberation of the brachial plexus, great care should be exercised to avoid nerve injuries. Because malignancy of the tumor cannot be eliminated with certainty before or during the operation, wide excision of the entire rib is recommended. 
Costs and health consequences of cholesterol screening for asymptomatic older Americans. To predict the consequences of cholesterol screening among elderly Americans who do not have symptoms of heart disease, we explore the cost implications of a cholesterol screening program, evaluate evidence linking hypercholesterolemia to coronary heart disease and mortality in the elderly, and describe the likely effects of therapy of hypercholesterolemia. According to our calculations, if all Americans 65 years of age and older adhered to a cholesterol screening program similar to the one proposed by the National Cholesterol Education Program, minimum annual expenditures for screening and treatment would be between $1.6 billion and $16.8 billion, depending on the effectiveness of diet and the cost of the medications used to treat hypercholesterolemia. There is no direct evidence that this program would lessen overall morbidity or extend the lives of elderly Americans. 
Osteoid osteoma: CT-guided percutaneous treatment. Seven patients with presumed osteoid osteoma were treated with percutaneous destruction or drill resection with computed tomographic (CT) guidance. The diagnosis of osteoid osteoma was made on the basis of findings in the clinical history and results at plain radiography, bone scintigraphy, and CT. In four patients, histologic confirmation was obtained. Hospital stay lasted from 1 to 3 days. After 11-38 months of follow-up examinations, all patients were asymptomatic. The authors report this simple procedure as an alternative to the more traditional open surgery technique. 
Linear nevus sebaceous syndrome: megalencephaly and heterotopic gray matter. A 3-month-old white male with linear nevus sebaceous syndrome (LNSS), facial deformities, brain malformations, and cortical blindness is presented. Facial deformities included left ear hypertrophy and a left-sided hamartomatous neck mass. Magnetic resonance imaging suggested that a central nervous system (CNS) abnormality, involving gray and white matter, should be linked with LNSS. Magnetic resonance imaging was more useful than computed tomography in demonstrating the full spectrum of CNS anomalies, including unilateral lissencephaly, a paucity of white matter, excessive and heterotopic gray matter, apparent left schizencephaly, and unilateral left colpocephaly (dilation of atrium and posterior horn of lateral ventricle). Postmortem examination revealed left hemisphere megalencephaly with a dilated posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. The impressive gray matter heterotopias likely were the source of the patient's seizures and perhaps the ultimate cause of death. Megalencephaly and other deviations of neuronal migration should be considered as a dramatic component of LNSS. 
New potent verapamil derivatives that reverse multidrug resistance in human renal carcinoma cells and in transgenic mice expressing the human MDR1 gene. Multidrug resistance in human renal cell carcinoma is mainly caused by expression of the MDR1 gene and is characterized by a broad spectrum cross resistance to many natural product chemotherapeutic agents. This resistance can be overcome by applying chemosensitizers which inhibit the function of the MDR1 gene product P-glycoprotein. The development of new reversing agents with fewer side effects and a higher potency in modifying resistance is a high priority of research on drug resistance. We have evaluated four new verapamil derivatives on 21 primary human renal cell carcinomas in vitro, and also tested them in an MDR-transgenic mice model. These mice express the human MDR1 gene in their bone marrow cells and measurement of their white blood counts provides a simple, rapid and reliable system to screen for the potency of MDR-reversing agents in vivo. We demonstrate here that all four drugs are effective in reversing multidrug resistance in primary cultures of human renal cell carcinomas when used in combination with vinblastine chemotherapy, and to a lesser extent with doxorubicin or daunomycin chemotherapy. Our in vivo data indicate that two of these reversing agents display low toxicity at high concentrations and are more effective at low, clinically achievable concentrations, than the other two drugs and R-verapamil. These results make the two new drugs attractive candidates to be taken into clinical trials. 
Regulation of cerebral blood vessels by humoral and endothelium-dependent mechanisms. Update on humoral regulation of vascular tone. Recent studies suggest that humoral and endothelium-dependent mechanisms may play an important role in the cerebral circulation. Angiotensin may acutely and chronically increase resistance of large cerebral arteries and reduce cerebral microvascular pressure without changing cerebral blood flow. We hypothesize that the brain may sense reductions in microvascular pressure and initiate compensatory neurohumoral responses to raise arterial pressure. Vasopressin appears to play an important role in regulation of production of cerebrospinal fluid and brain fluid volume. Vasopressin also may be protective when intracranial pressure is elevated. Endothelium-dependent mechanisms also may have important influences on tone of cerebral vessels. Synthesis of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor nitric oxide, or a nitric oxide-containing compound, appears to influence both basal tone and responses of large cerebral arteries to acetylcholine in vivo. Large cerebral arteries dilate in response to increased blood flow in vivo, and this response may be mediated in part by release of a humoral factor by endothelium. Endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral arterioles to receptor- and nonreceptor-mediated agonists are impaired during chronic hypertension. The mechanism of impairment of endothelium-dependent responses of cerebral arterioles appears to involve production of an endothelium-derived contracting factor. 
Treatment of snoring and obstructive sleep apnea with a dental orthosis. A dental orthosis, designed to increase the size of the upper airway by advancing the mandible, was used in 68 patients to treat snoring and varying degrees of obstructive sleep apnea. The orthosis increased the posterior airway space, as assessed by lateral cephalograms. Seven months (range 2 to 25) after beginning use, 75 percent of patients were using the orthosis regularly. Snoring, by report, was improved in all patients but one (p less than 0.001) and was eliminated in 42 percent (95 percent confidence interval 30 to 55 percent). Sleep quality and sleepiness were also reported improved. Apneas and hypopneas, measured before and after use in 20 patients with obstructive sleep apnea, were reduced from an average of 47 to 20 events per hour (p less than 0.001). Oxygenation and sleep disturbance were also improved. Apnea-hypopnea frequency was reduced with treatment to less than 20/h in 13 patients. Residual frequencies greater than 20/h were associated with higher initial frequencies of apneas and hypopneas. Side effects of orthosis use were minor, and no serious complications were observed. The dental orthosis is an effective treatment for the symptom of snoring and can also effectively treat obstructive sleep apnea of moderate severity. 
Decreased Gs alpha mRNA levels accompany the fall in Gs and adenylyl cyclase activities in compensated left ventricular hypertrophy. In heart failure, only the impairment in adenylyl cyclase activation progresses. We have previously reported that there is a global reduction in adenylyl cyclase associated with a decrement in Gs functional activity in cardiac sarcolemma from animals with pressure overload-induced hypertrophy and heart failure. This study was performed to determine whether hypertrophy alone in the absence of heart failure is sufficient to promote these changes and whether the superimposition of heart failure intensified these changes. Basal and stimulated adenylyl cyclase and Gs activity, as determined in the S49 cyc- reconstitution assay, were measured in sarcolemma from normal (NL), left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and heart failure (HF) animals. Simultaneously, we measured the mRNA level encoding for the Gs alpha subunit. These studies indicate that Gs activity and Gs alpha mRNA are decreased by approximately 30% both in the failing heart and even in the heart with compensated hypertrophy before heart failure develops (Gs activity, pmol cyclic AMP/10 min per microgram, NL 4.2 +/- 0.4, LVH 3.0 +/- 0.2, HF 3.2 +/- 0.3; Gs alpha mRNA, pg/10 micrograms RNA, NL 131 +/- 9.0, LVH 104 +/- 7.4, HF 97.4 +/- 9.1; P less than 0.05 as compared with NL for LVH and HF). Accompanying this decrement in Gs activity is a fall in adenylyl cyclase, both basal and stimulated. However, we also identified a further decrease in adenylyl cyclase without any additional change in Gs or in its alpha subunit mRNA level. This is seen only in the sarcolemma from animals with heart failure as compared with those with compensated LV hypertrophy (e.g., NaF-stimulated activity, pmol cyclic AMP/min per mg, NL 420.2 +/- 17.5, LVH 347.1 +/- 29.6, HF 244.2 +/- 27.3; P less than 0.05 compared with NL for LVH and HF, P less than 0.05 compared with LVH for HF). In summary, these studies indicate that both Gs and adenylyl cyclase activities fall in parallel with the development of LV hypertrophy followed by a further decrement in adenylyl cyclase, independent of Gs, in the setting of heart failure. 
A controlled study of low and high volume anesthetic jelly as a lubricant and pain reliever during cystoscopy. To evaluate the influence of the volume of 2% lidocaine jelly as an anesthetic during cystoscopy 241 men and women received either 11 or 20 ml. jelly intraurethrally in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Pain was recorded on a visual analogue scale by the patient and on a 3-level scale by the physician. The pain scores according to the visual analogue scale were significantly higher in the patients given 11 ml. jelly than in those given 20 ml. when all patients in the study were analyzed. There was no significant difference in the visual analogue scale between the 2 treatments in women but a significant difference was noted in men, although in men older than 55 years the difference was not statistically significant. There was general agreement between the visual analogue scale results and the physician scores but the visual analogue scale procedure was more sensitive in detecting differences between treatments. It is suggested that approximately 11 ml. 2% lidocaine jelly is the appropriate volume for women and 20 ml. is the appropriate volume for men during cystoscopy but that the lower volume of jelly may be sufficient in older men. 
Localized vs generalized pyogenic granuloma. A clinicopathologic study. We herein report the unusual case of a previously healthy young man who had spontaneous development of multiple lobular capillary hemangiomata disseminated over the integument. Based on the observation that the single lesions exhibited (immuno)pathologic and ultrastructural features similar, if not identical, to those of late-stage pyogenic granulomas, we propose to nosologically include our patient's eruption within the disease spectrum of pyogenic granuloma. As opposed to the occurrence of localized forms of pyogenic granuloma, the disseminated eruption seen in our patient and in other patients whose cases are reported in the literature cannot be ascribed to physical trauma. As some of these latter patients suffered from an underlying malignant neoplasm, it is tempting to speculate that both exogenous (eg, trauma) and endogenous (eg, tumor cells) factors can lead to the release of mediators promoting the development of these vascular neoplasms. 
Current surgical technique to repair Fallot's tetralogy with absent pulmonary valve syndrome. The experience with surgical repair of Fallot's tetralogy and absent pulmonary valve syndrome is reviewed. Twenty-two patients aged 1 day to 8 years were treated between 1982 and 1989 using one surgical technique. This consisted of resection of the main pulmonary artery and large parts of the anterior wall of the right and left pulmonary artery. The ventricular septal defect was closed with a patch, and an aortic or pulmonary homograft (size, 8 to 24 mm) was interposed between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. Two of the 8 infants operated on died; there was one late death. All 14 older children survived the operation. All survivors are well up to 7 years follow-up (mean follow-up, 3.6 years). We recommend early treatment of infants; older children can be treated electively. The technique used in our series gives excellent results. 
Preoperative diagnosis by enteroclysis of unsuspected closed loop obstruction in medically managed patients. Initial observation and evaluation of patient progress have reduced the number of operative interventions in the management of small intestinal obstruction. The differentiation of simple mechanical from strangulating obstructions has remained difficult. Strangulation is not an invariable component of a closed loop obstruction. We report 27 patients with small bowel obstruction initially managed nonsurgically, in whom enteroclysis 2-8 days after admission demonstrated unsuspected closed loop obstruction. In 25 of the 27 patients, subsequent surgery confirmed the radiologic diagnosis: all the obstructed loops were viable and there was no operative mortality. Our experience suggests that the early performance of enteroclysis should be considered in patients with small bowel obstruction undergoing a trial of nonoperative management. 
The effects of low doses of n-3 fatty acid supplementation on blood pressure in hypertensive subjects. A randomized controlled trial. The potential antihypertensive effects after prolonged use of small doses of fish oils remain undefined. Therefore, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, controlled crossover study comparing low doses of n-3 fatty acid supplementation with n-6 fatty acids on blood pressure in 33 subjects with mild hypertension. After a 6-week stabilization period, subjects ingested either 2.04 g/d of n-3 fatty acids or safflower oil (4.8 g/d of linoleic acid) for 12 weeks, then crossed over to the alternative encapsulated oil for another 12 weeks, after a 4-week washout period. All antihypertensive drug therapy had been discontinued. For the combined data, there were significant reductions from pretreatment values for supine diastolic (-2.4 mm Hg) and sitting systolic (-4.1 mm Hg) blood pressure after fish oil; no significant changes occurred after safflower oil control. Compared with safflower oil, fish oil supplementation was associated with a statistically significant reduction in mean supine diastolic blood pressure of 3.7 mm Hg (95% confidence interval, -7.3 and 0.1). Sitting diastolic and mean arterial pressures showed a sequence effect; therefore, only the initial period was used in an analysis of their responses. There were significant decreases from pretreatment values for sitting diastolic (-4.4 mm Hg), mean arterial (-5.1 mm Hg), and systolic (-6.5 mm Hg) blood pressure after fish oil. The differences between groups after the 12-week period remained statistically significant for sitting diastolic and sitting mean arterial blood pressures. No adverse changes were noted in plasma levels of lipid-related measures. 
Helium-oxygen and conventional mechanical ventilation in the treatment of large airway obstruction and respiratory failure in an infant. The application of 70% helium-30% oxygen mixtures by tight-fitting face mask in the emergency management of large airway obstruction is well known. We present the case of an infant with severe large airway obstruction and respiratory failure that was unresponsive to the more traditional approaches of airway management, including the delivery of He-O2 by face mask, endotracheal intubation, and conventional mechanical ventilation with oxygen alone. This case was successfully managed with He-O2, when concentrations of O2 were lower than those previously reported in association with conventional mechanical ventilation, until the obstruction could be surgically corrected. We suggest using a new combination of the low-density helium-oxygen gas mixtures and conventional mechanical ventilation, both of which are readily available in most intensive care units. 
Acetaminophen induced pancreatitis. This is the fourth reported case of acute pancreatitis associated with acetaminophen overdose. The patient had ingested the smallest amount of acetaminophen (9.75-13 g) that has been reported to produce acute pancreatitis. This patient also suffered liver and renal impairment and developed an ileus and ascites. Despite late therapy and laboratory tests that indicated a poor prognosis the patient made a complete recovery without sequelae. 
Role of balloon angioplasty in the treatment of aortic coarctation. Since the initial report of coarctation balloon angioplasty in 1982, several groups have used this technique for native coarctations in neonates, infants, and children and for postoperative recoarctations. However, recommendations for use of balloon angioplasty as a treatment procedure of choice are clouded by reports of aneurysm development at the site of coarctation. Here we review our experience as well as that published in the literature, including Valvuloplasty and Angioplasty of Congenital Anomalies Registry data, and present evidence in support of balloon angioplasty as a therapeutic procedure of choice for treating native and recurrent postoperative aortic coarctations. Balloon angioplasty of native aortic coarctations in 20 neonates and infants 1 year old or less reduced peak systolic pressure gradient across the coarctation from 40 +/- 12 mm Hg (mean +/- standard deviation) to 11 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.001); no patient required immediate surgical intervention. The residual gradient at follow-up (mean follow-up, 12 months) in 16 infants was 18 +/- 16 mm Hg, a significant improvement (p less than 0.01) compared with preangioplasty values. In none of the patients did an aneurysm develop. Recoarctation developed in 5 (31%) of the 16 infants and was successfully treated either by surgical resection (in 2) or by repeat balloon angioplasty (in 3). A comparison of mortality and recurrence rates between the balloon angioplasty and surgical groups was made with the help of data pooled from the literature published since 1980. The initial (7% versus 23%) and late (2% versus 25%) mortality and recoarctation (11% versus 18%) rates were higher (p less than 0.025) after surgical intervention than after balloon therapy. When only reports in which patients were operated on after 1979 were included in this type of analysis, the initial and late mortality rates remained higher (p less than 0.01) after operation than after angioplasty, and the recoarctation rates became similar (p greater than 0.1). Thirty-two children (greater than 1 year old) underwent balloon angioplasty of native coarctation with a resultant reduction in peak systolic pressure gradient from 48 +/- 19 mm Hg to 10 +/- 9 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), which continued to remain low (14 +/- 11 mm Hg; p less than 0.001) at follow-up catheterization in 24 children 13 months (mean) later. There were no immediate or late deaths. A small aneurysm developed in 1 patient (4%) but did not require intervention. Recoarctation developed in 2 patients (8%), and in both, repeat balloon angioplasty was performed with good results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Adjusting the dose to the individual response of the patient during the induction of ovulation with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone. To identify the effective dose of intravenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone necessary to induce ovulation in patients with chronic anovulation of diverse etiology, 40 women were subdivided into four groups: idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), functional hypothalamic amenorrhea, normoandrogenic oligomenorrhea, and polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). During 90 treatment cycles, the dose was the only parameter that was progressively adjusted. The overall ovulation rate per cycle was 100% in IHH, functional hypothalamic amenorrhea, and normoandrogenic oligomenorrhea, using only 5 micrograms/90 minutes in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea and normoandrogenic oligomenorrhea and up to 7.5 micrograms/90 minutes in IHH. In PCOS, the ovulation rate was 67.6%, using up to 20 micrograms/90 minutes. The lesser degree of effectiveness observed in PCOS can probably be explained by the different basal endocrine profile presented by these subjects. 
Hemorrhage following mandibular osteotomies: a report of 21 cases. Hemorrhage associated with mandibular osteotomies, especially to the extent that it becomes life threatening, is a rare occurrence and its risk is less than that following maxillary orthognathic surgery. Twenty-one cases of significant bleeding following mandibular sagittal split ramus osteotomies, vertical and oblique ramus osteotomies, and genioplasties are presented. Life-threatening hemorrhage associated with mandibular osteotomies is primarily an intraoperative problem and the incidence of major postoperative and recurrent hemorrhage is not as great as following maxillary osteotomies. Suggestions for the avoidance and treatment of these bleeding complications are discussed. 
Effects of lidocaine on reperfusion arrhythmias and electrophysiological properties in an isolated ventricular muscle model of ischemia and reperfusion. Transmembrane electrical activity was recorded from endo- and epicardium of isolated segments of guinea pig right ventricles with standard microelectrode techniques. An ECG was also recorded by two electrodes placed at opposite ends of the tissue bath. Regular stimulation was delivered to the endocardium. Tissues were exposed to simulated ischemia for 15 min and then were reperfused with "normal" Tyrode's solution. Rapid sustained or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, bigeminy or trigeminy with characteristics of transmural reentry occurred in early reperfusion in 14 of 20 hearts (70%). Arrhythmias were accompanied by prolongation of transmural conduction time and abbreviation of endocardial effective refractory period. With lidocaine, at 1, 5, 10 and 50 microM, reperfusion arrhythmias occurred in 53.3, 22.2, 20.8 and 14.3% of hearts, respectively. The decreased incidence of arrhythmias was statistically significant for 5 to 50 microM lidocaine (P less than .01). The antiarrhythmic effect did not correlate with changes in transmural conduction time, endocardial effective refractory period, or endocardial excitability. However, antiarrhythmic concentrations of lidocaine selectively depressed epicardial excitability and significantly increased endo- to epicardial conduction block during late ischemic and early reperfusion periods. Epicardial inexcitability extended to late diastole and conduction block was not restricted to premature beats. Thus, in transmural reentry in which the epicardium is an essential component of the circuit, lidocaine may interrupt the circuit by selectively rendering this component inexcitable. 
Changes of zero-stress state of rat pulmonary arteries in hypoxic hypertension. Zero-stress state of the main pulmonary arteries, from the main trunk to a vessel with a lumen diameter approximately 60 microns, was determined in 25 normal control and 38 hypoxic pulmonary hypertensive rats. Pulmonary hypertension was induced by placing the rats in a hypoxic chamber with 10% O2-90% N2 at atmospheric pressure. The zero-stress state of each vessel was obtained by first cutting the vessel transversely into a series of rings and then cutting each ring radially, whereupon the ring opened into a sector, which is characterized by an opening angle defined as the angle subtended between two lines originating from the midpoint of the inner wall (endothelium) to the tips of the inner wall. Whereas the pulmonary blood pressure increased monotonically during the development of pulmonary hypertension, the opening angle followed a different course; e.g., the values (means +/- SD) of the opening angle at the pulmonary trunk at times 0 (control) and 2, 12, 28, 96, 144, 240, 480, and 720 h after exposure to hypoxia are, respectively, 294 +/- 30 degrees, 378 +/- 24 degrees, 385 +/- 12 degrees, 374 +/- 11 degrees, 246 +/- 63 degrees, 267 +/- 49 degrees, 193 +/- 19 degrees, 195 +/- 83 degrees, and 239 +/- 38 degrees. Trends at other places on the artery are similar, but the magnitudes differ. In this period of time, intimal edema and thickening were found. The intima media thickened rapidly from 48 to 240 h and then more slowly from 240 to 720 h. Adventitia thickened later; its thickness exceeded that of the intima media at approximately 96 h. Thus the changes of zero-stress state of the pulmonary arteries are seen to be related to the nonuniform remodeling of the vessel wall as revealed by the edema, blebs, and thickening of different layers. 
Long-term results of choledochoduodenostomy in the treatment of choledocholithiasis: assessment of 225 cases. During a 10-year period 2610 patients were operated on for biliary lithiasis; in 225 (8.6 per cent) cases the operation concluded with a choledochoduodenostomy. The commonest preoperative diagnosis (62.2 per cent) in these 225 patients was choledocholithiasis; 30 patients had previously had a cholecystectomy. After choledochoduodenostomy, 4.0 per cent of patients had an intra-abdominal complication; six patients developed an intra-abdominal abscess and three developed an external biliary fistula. Four patients (1.8 per cent) died, three from pulmonary complications and one from a biliary fistula. After a mean follow-up period of 4.6 years, 71.5 per cent of patients were asymptomatic. The remainder suffered from dyspepsia (15.1 per cent), colicky pain (8.7 per cent) or episodes of cholangitis (4.7 per cent). Endoscopy in the symptomatic patients allowed the following conclusions: (a) no patient with dyspepsia had a problem at the anastomosis; (b) 27 per cent of those with colic had anastomotic stenosis or the sump syndrome; and (c) all patients with cholangitis had anastomotic stenosis and residual calculi. 
Dual effects of N-ethylmaleimide on ethanol-induced gastric lesions in rats. The effects of N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), a sulfhydryl (SH) blocker, on ethanol-induced gastric lesions were investigated in rats by varying the route of administration. Oral administration of acidified ethanol (60% ethanol in 150 mM HCl, 1 ml) produced hemorrhagic bandlike lesions in the gastric mucosa. Pretreatment of the animals with orally administered NEM (0.1-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited these lesions (the inhibition was over 80% at 1 mg/kg or greater), and the effects were partially reversed by indomethacin (5 mg/kg, subcutaneous). However, when NEM (10 mg/kg) was given subcutaneously, this agent significantly worsened the lesions. Intragastrically applied NEM produced a dose-dependent reduction of the transmucosal potential difference (PD) and the mucosal nonprotein SH levels, an increase of the volume of gastric contents, and an inhibition of gastric motility, while these parameters remained unaltered after subcutaneous administration of the agent. The microvascular permeability in the mucosa was significantly increased by both oral and subcutaneous administration of NEM (10 mg/kg) but remained unchanged in response to lower doses of orally administered (less than 3 mg/kg). These results suggest that NEM given orally is cytoprotective to the stomach against ethanol, probably by acting as a mild irritant and due to dilution of an irritant and inhibition of gastric motility (muscle relaxation), but when given subcutaneously it aggravates the lesions by unknown mechanisms. 
Bladder and sphincter behavior in patients with spinal cord lesions. To ascertain the relationship between the clinical neurological level, and bladder and sphincter behavior, the video-urodynamic studies of 489 patients with spinal cord lesions due to a variety of causes were retrospectively analyzed. Patients were classified based on the clinical neurological level, etiology of the lesion and presence or absence of signs of sacral cord involvement. Urodynamic findings were classified as either detrusor hyperreflexia, detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia, detrusor areflexia or normal. The results indicate that although there was a general correlation between the neurological level of injury and the expected vesicourethral function, it was neither absolute nor specific. For example, 20 of 117 cervical cord lesions had detrusor areflexia, 42 of 156 lumbar cord lesions had detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia and 26 of 84 sacral cord had either detrusor hyperreflexia or detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia. However, if one considers the presence of neurological abnormalities, 84% of the suprasacral cord lesions with detrusor areflexia have sacral cord signs. In contrast, all suprasacral cord lesions with no evidence of sacral cord involvement have either detrusor hyperreflexia or detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia. The positive predictive value for positive sacral cord signs and detrusor areflexia was 87%. The positive predictive value for negative sacral cord signs and detrusor hyperreflexia/detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia was 81%. These data suggest that the clinical neurological examination alone is not an adequate barometer to predict neurourological dysfunction and that video-urodynamic evaluation provides a more precise diagnosis for each patient. 
Phase I trial of H65-RTA immunoconjugate in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. H65-RTA is an immunoconjugate that consists of the A chain of ricin (RTA), a ribosomal-inhibiting protein, coupled to a murine monoclonal antibody (H65) directed against the pan-T-cell antigen CD5. The CD5 antigen is heterogeneously expressed on cutaneous T-cell lymphoma tumor cells, but is not expressed on normal cells except lymphocytes. A phase I trial was therefore conducted in which 14 patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma progressive on other therapies were treated with up to three cycles of H65-RTA. The maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of H65-RTA was 0.33 mg/kg/d administered intravenously for 10 days as defined by dyspnea at rest at higher doses. Other reversible side effects included myalgia, mild hypoalbuminemia with weight gain, pedal edema, fatigue, fevers, and chills. Six patients received more than one cycle of H65-RTA without increased side effects compared with the first cycle. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed that peak serum drug levels were dose-dependent, and ranged from 1.13 to 5.56 micrograms/mL, with a terminal half-life ranging from 1.0 to 2.9 hours. The development of antibodies against the immunoconjugate was associated with a lower peak drug level, but not with enhanced side effects. Partial responses lasting from 3 to 8 months were documented in four patients. Three of the responding patients received more than one cycle of H65-RTA in the presence of anti-immunoconjugate antibodies. The results from this phase I trial suggest that H65-RTA is an active drug in the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. The immunoconjugate may be safely administered repeatedly, even in the presence of anti-immunoconjugate antibodies, with responses noted. Additional studies at the MTD are needed to define the response rate in this disease. 
Cerebellorubral degeneration after resection of cerebellar dentate nucleus neoplasms: evaluation with MR imaging. The authors describe the magnetic resonance (MR) findings in seven patients who developed severe cerebellar symptoms and atrophy of the contralateral red nucleus following removal of unilateral neoplasms in the deep nuclei of the cerebellum. For most patients, pre- and postoperative spin-echo MR images were obtained with long repetition times (TRs) at 1.5 T. The long TR images obtained before surgery demonstrated unilateral masses involving the dentate nucleus. Long TR images obtained after surgical resection of the dentate nucleus showed increased signal intensity in all of seven contralateral red nuclei, three of seven ipsilateral superior cerebellar peduncles, and two of seven contralateral inferior olivary nuclei. Three other patients who underwent surgery for cerebellar neoplasms without resection of the dentate nuclei showed no postoperative brain stem changes on MR images. The authors speculate that the changes in the contralateral red nuclei are due to cerebellorubral degeneration (since well-described neural tracts interconnect the dentate nucleus and the contralateral red nucleus). Injury of the dentate nucleus may result in degeneration of distant neural connections. 
Improved treatment results in boys with overt testicular relapse during or shortly after initial therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A Pediatric Oncology group study. Boys with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who have overt testicular relapse (OTR) during initial continuation chemotherapy or within 6 months thereafter have poor outcomes, with long-term survival similar to patients with marrow relapse during treatment. In April 1983, the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) adopted for these patients an intensive treatment protocol (POG 8303) consisting of a four-drug systemic reinduction (prednisone, vincristine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase), a brief intensive consolidation phase with teniposide and cytarabine, and a 2-year program of continuation chemotherapy with weekly rotating drug pairs (vincristine/cyclophosphamide and teniposide/cytarabine) with or without (by randomization) four-drug reinforcement pulses every 16 weeks. Bilateral testicular radiation (2600 cGy) was administered during reinduction, and intrathecal chemoprophylaxis was given every 4 to 6 weeks. Among 38 eligible study patients with OTR, 5 had prior or concominant extramedullary relapse in other sites. The median duration of complete remission before OTR was 27 months (range, 10 to 42 months). All 38 patients achieved clinical remission after reinduction. Three patients withdrew while in remission, 22 had another relapse (12 marrow, 5 central nervous system (CNS), 2 testicular, 1 retroperitoneal, 1 prostate, and 1 eye), and 13 (34%) remain in complete remission from 32+ to 74+ months after OTR (median, 53+ months). Eighteen patients had their therapy electively discontinued, and five relapses occurred thereafter. These results are superior to those observed in patients with first marrow relapse treated with the same protocol. Approximately one third of patients with OTR treated with POG protocol 8303 exhibit prolonged second remissions with the potential for cure. 
Human papillomavirus DNA types in squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. Previous studies have found variable evidence suggestive of a role for human papillomavirus (HPV) in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. In this study 49 cases of primary verrucous or squamous cell carcinoma from patients referred to a regional medical center were examined initially by Southern blot hybridization to detect HPV types 2, 6, 11, 13, 16, 18, and 32. Approximately 60% of carcinomas from certain head and neck sites, particularly the floor of the mouth, tongue, pharynx, piriform sinus, and larynx, were positive for episomal viral DNA of HPV-6, -11, -16, or -18. HPV DNA was found in some multiple tumors from separate sites of the same patient. Integration of viral DNA into the host cell chromosome was likely in a minority of the positive carcinomas, and no novel HPV DNA types were indicated by the hybridization analyses. Subsequently, DNA remaining from 30 of the carcinomas was examined by a more sensitive polymerase chain reaction amplification assay for DNA of HPV-6, -11, -16, and -18. Twenty-seven of the samples were positive for one or more HPV DNA types, with all positive carcinoma samples containing oncogenic HPV-16 or -18 DNAs. Almost all the patients examined were of the middle to older age group with a history of tobacco use. Although HPV infection of oral mucosa may be a frequent occurrence, a possible role for HPVs in the multifactorial etiology of head and neck carcinogenesis merits further epidemiologic investigation. 
Bilateral optic disc neovascularization in association with retinitis pigmentosa. Bilateral neovascularization of the optic disc developed in a 16-year-old Hispanic girl with retinitis pigmentosa. The neovascularization regressed in both eyes over 1 year without treatment. Ocular and systemic evaluation failed to reveal a recognized cause for the neovascularization. To our knowledge this is only the third case reported of this unusual association. 
Thymic carcinoid. Carcinoid of the thymus is a rare neoplasm. Differentiation from thymoma is important because they have entirely different prognosis. A patient in whom a 19 x 18 x 12 cm carcinoid tumor of the thymus was surgically removed is presented. The tumor metastasized to peritracheal and internal mammary nodes, and invaded the SVC, pleura, lung, and pericardium. This is apparently the largest reported tumor of its kind. Prior to induction of anesthesia cardiopulmonary bypass and rigid bronchoscopy were readily available. Awake intubation was utilized. Even though long-term prognosis is poor, an aggressive surgical approach and adjuvant radiotherapy may achieve extended survival with excellent quality of life. Central aspects of the disease as well as pivotal therapeutic points are discussed. 
Epidural fentanyl does not influence intravenous PCA requirements in the post-caesarean patient. Forty ASA physical status I or II patients scheduled for elective Caesarean delivery were studied to determine the effect of epidural fentanyl on post-Caesarean delivery analgesic requirements as administered by intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA). Following delivery of the infant, under epidural anaesthesia with lidocaine 2% with 1/200,000 epinephrine, patients were randomly assigned to receive either 10 ml of preservative-free normal saline via the epidural catheter or 100 micrograms of fentanyl with 8 ml preservative-free normal saline in a double-blinded fashion. On arrival in the post-anesthesia recovery room (PAR), patients were provided with intravenous PCA meperidine 12.5 mg every eight minutes as needed. Patients were visited at intervals over the next 24 hr to determine if any differences in narcotic requirements, demands for narcotics, or severity of pain were noted. No differences were observed in any values between the groups. It is concluded that a single bolus of epidural fentanyl does not provide an advantage for postoperative pain relief in this patient population. 
Inhibitor of the thrombin time in systemic amyloidosis: a common coagulation abnormality. Patients with primary systemic amyloidosis (AL) often experience bleeding, and we report a newly recognized coagulation abnormality in AL. Of 103 patients with primary systemic AL studied over 2 years, 41 had prolongation of the thrombin time (range, 25 to 46 seconds; normal, less than 22 seconds) and reptilase time (range, 17 to 39 seconds; normal, 14 to 16 seconds). The fibrinogen from the plasma of 36 patients was precipitated by beta-alanine and diluted to a concentration of approximately 200 mg/dL. The thrombin times of the precipitated fibrinogens were normal in 34 patients, implying that an inhibitor was responsible for the abnormal tests. The addition of patient fibrinogen-free plasma to normal plasma prolonged the thrombin times, and this result confirmed the presence of an inhibitor. The inhibitor is more likely to be present in patients with nephrotic syndrome (20 of our patients) and congestive heart failure (six). A circulating monoclonal protein (24 patients), the presence of amyloid liver involvement (eight), and the presence of amyloid neuropathy (nine) were not predisposing factors. Only one patient had deficiency of factor X. We conclude that inhibition of fibrinogen conversion to a fibrin clot rather than dysfibrinogenemia is the cause of the prolonged thrombin time in primary systemic AL. 
Serum cholesterol concentration and coronary heart disease in population with low cholesterol concentrations. OBJECTIVE--To examine the relation between serum cholesterol concentration and mortality (from coronary heart disease and from other causes) below the range of cholesterol values generally seen in Western populations. DESIGN--Prospective observational study based on 8-13 years of follow up of subjects in a population with low cholesterol concentrations. SETTING--Urban Shanghai, China. SUBJECTS--9021 Chinese men and women aged 35-64 at baseline. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Death from coronary heart disease and other causes. RESULTS--The average serum cholesterol concentration was 4.2 mmol/l at baseline examination, and only 43 (7%) of the deaths that occurred during 8-13 years of follow up were attributed to coronary heart disease. There was a strongly positive, and apparently independent, relation between serum cholesterol concentration and death from coronary heart disease (z = 3.47, p less than 0.001), and within the range of usual serum cholesterol concentration studied (3.8-4.7 mmol/l) there was no evidence of any threshold. After appropriate adjustment for the regression dilution bias, a 4 (SD 1)% difference in usual cholesterol concentration was associated with a 21 (SD 6)% (95% confidence interval 9% to 35%) difference in mortality from coronary heart disease. There was no significant relation between serum cholesterol concentration and death from stroke or all types of cancer. The 79 deaths due to liver cancer or other chronic liver disease were inversely related to cholesterol concentration at baseline. CONCLUSION--Blood cholesterol concentration was directly related to mortality from coronary heart disease even in those with what was, by Western standards, a "low" cholesterol concentration. There was no good evidence of an adverse effect of cholesterol on other causes of death. 
Comparative morphologic and immunohistochemical studies of estrogen plus alpha-naphthoflavone-induced liver tumors in Syrian hamsters and rats. Syrian hamsters were treated with ethinylestradiol and maintained on a diet containing alpha-naphthoflavone (alpha NF), a regimen that produces a high incidence of liver tumors. Morphologic analyses (light microscopy, immunoperoxidase studies, and electron microscopy) were performed on livers of these animals. After 4 months of hormone plus alpha NF treatment, marked hepatocyte cell changes were already present, as demonstrated by loss of eosinophilic staining of hepatocyte cytoplasm. Large multinucleated hepatocytes exhibiting frequent mitoses were observed around central veins. After 5 months of treatment, there was proliferation of bile ducts, and small cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm resembling hepatocytes appeared surrounding these bile ducts. At 7 to 8 months, the first tumor nodules (foci) were seen. Tumor foci in the portal area consisted of small clusters of large cells resembling hepatocytes with irregular nuclei. At the same time, dysplastic glands were identified among proliferating bile ducts. By 8 to 10 months, large tumors were present. These were trabecular hepatocellular carcinomas with widely varying individual cell morphology. Compared with adjacent liver, dysplastic glands in the portal areas, microcarcinomas, and large tumors all showed intense immunostaining for cytokeratin. Rats treated with the same regimen also developed hepatic tumors, but the light and electron microscopy results and immunohistochemical profiles were very different. Altered hepatic foci composed of small hepatocytes were typically prominent; however, malignant tumors did not arise from the portal area. Neither altered foci nor tumors stained significantly for cytokeratin. These data suggest that the biochemical events giving rise to these liver tumors differ between the species studied, despite the animals being exposed to the same treatment regimens. 
Cocaine and chest pain: clinical features and outcome of patients hospitalized to rule out myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical features, electrocardiographic findings, and hospital course in patients admitted with acute chest pain temporally related to cocaine use. DESIGN: Retrospective data analysis. SETTING: A 485-bed county hospital. PATIENTS: One hundred and one consecutive patients with cocaine-related chest pain admitted to the hospital to rule out myocardial infarction. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The quality of the chest pain frequently suggested myocardial ischemia. Dyspnea was common (56%). The onset of chest pain occurred during cocaine use in 21% of patients, within 1 hour of use in 37%, and after 1 hour of use in 42%. Admission electrocardiographic findings were interpreted as normal in 32% of patients; as acute myocardial injury in 8%; as early repolarization variant in 32%; as left ventricular hypertrophy in 16%; and as "other" in 12%. Forty-three percent of patients had ST-segment elevation meeting the electrocardiographic criteria for use of thrombolytic therapy, but such elevation was usually due to the early repolarization variant. The initial total creatine kinase was elevated more than 3.3 mu kat/L (200 U/L) in 43% of patients, and an elevated total creatine kinase was recorded at some time during the hospital course in 47% of patients. The creatine kinase MB fraction was less than 0.02 in all patients. Myocardial infarction was ruled out in all patients. No patient experienced in-hospital cardiovascular complications. CONCLUSION: The quality of acute chest pain related to cocaine use is indistinguishable from that experienced in acute myocardial ischemia. Abnormal or normal variant electrocardiographic findings are common in patients with chest pain related to cocaine use, but nevertheless the incidence of acute myocardial infarction is low. The ST-segment and T-wave changes can mimic acute myocardial injury and are most likely normal findings in young black men that can be readily recognized in the emergency department. Most of these patients do not require admission to an intensive care unit. 
Smell and taste disorders, a study of 750 patients from the University of Pennsylvania Smell and Taste Center. Smell and taste disorders are common in the general population, yet little is known about their nature or cause. This article describes a study of 750 patients with complaints of abnormal smell or taste perception from the University of Pennsylvania Smell and Taste Center, Philadelphia. Major findings suggest that: chemosensory dysfunction influences quality of life; complaints of taste loss usually reflect loss of smell function; upper respiratory infection, head trauma, and chronic nasal and paranasal sinus disease are the most common causes of the diminution of the sense of smell, with head trauma having the greatest loss; depression frequently accompanies chemosensory distortion; low body weight accompanies burning mouth syndrome; estrogens protect against loss of the sense of smell in postmenopausal women; zinc therapy may provide no benefit to patients with chemosensory dysfunction; and thyroid hormone function is associated with oral sensory distortion. The findings are discussed in relation to management of patients with chemosensory disturbances. 
Transmural distribution of myocardial tissue growth induced by volume-overload hypertrophy in the dog. BACKGROUND. Although chronic volume overload is thought to induce uniform cardiac enlargement, the stimulus for tissue growth has not been defined. Changes in diastolic and systolic stress or strain have been proposed as mechanical factors that may stimulate hypertrophy. Since there are thought to be transmural variations in these stresses and strains, three-dimensional patterns of myocardial tissue growth may provide insight into the role of these factors. METHODS AND RESULTS. To assess the transmural variation in tissue growth after volume overload, the configurations of three columns of four to six gold beads (1-mm diameter) implanted in the left ventricular anterior free wall were recorded in five dogs before and after cardiac enlargement induced by creating a systemic arteriovenous fistula. Data were obtained with end-diastolic pressures adjusted to the same level in the control and hypertrophic states. End-diastolic wall thickness remained constant, whereas left ventricular diameter increased. Small increases in transmural systolic strain were seen. The volumes defined by four beads (a tetrahedron) at end diastole showed increases in myocardial mass of 20-27% after 3.6 (mean) weeks of hypertrophy and were uniform across the wall of the left ventricle. The edges of single bilinear-quadratic finite elements were fitted to the three columns of the bead set at end diastole in control and at end diastole after hypertrophy at equal end-diastolic pressures. Thus, continuous transmural strain distribution were obtained at the hypertrophic state with respect to the control state. The transmural distributions of these end-diastolic growth strains were uniform and positive for both the circumferential and longitudinal components measured in a cardiac coordinate system, with small radial growth strain indicating that growth was predominantly parallel to the epicardial tangent plane. Moreover, when strains were transformed (rotated) to fiber coordinates, in-plane fiber and cross-fiber growth strains were both positive at all locations across the wall and approximately equal in magnitude, indicating considerable growth in the cross-fiber direction. CONCLUSIONS. These results indicate that the stimulus for volume-overload hypertrophy may be constant across the wall and that substantial cross-fiber growth occurs during volume-overload hypertrophy. 
Cell kinetics by bromodeoxyuridine labeling and deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy in prostatic carcinoma needle biopsies. We studied 63 prostate carcinomas in needle biopsies after labeling in vitro by incubating the entire biopsy specimen with tritiated thymidine or bromodeoxyuridine before fixation. Biopsies from 176 patients were labeled, of which 98 were benign and 78 were carcinomas (15 carcinomas were excluded because of scant tissue). The procedure did not interfere with histological diagnosis. Median labeling index was 0.87% (range 0.1 to 29.3%). A labeling index exceeding 3% was unusual but it may indicate the potential for rapid clinical progression. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) flow cytometry was performed on the last 44 carcinomas using cells shed by the prostatic needle biopsy tissue samples during transportation to the pathology laboratory. A sufficient number of cells were obtained for analysis in 37 cases, of which 6 were DNA aneuploid. Labeling index correlated with Gleason histological grade and score, and data from the 6 DNA aneuploid carcinomas suggest association between DNA aneuploidy and a high labeling index. Estimates of percentage of S-phase cells by flow cytometry did not correlate with variables other than DNA index, and appear to have been affected by a high noise-to-signal ratio (few proliferative cells relative to cellular debris) and inability to discriminate between benign and carcinomatous cells. 
Long-term ambulatory cassette EEG with sphenoidal recording in complex partial seizures. Long-term ambulatory cassette EEG with sphenoidal recording (A/EEG-SP) was performed in 51 patients. Group A comprised 31 patients with a clinical diagnosis of complex partial seizures (CPS), and group B comprised 20 patients suspected of having CPS. In group A, detection of temporal spikes was 27% by routine EEG (R/EEG), 72% by sphenoidal EEG (SP/EEG), 27% by A/EEG with temporal chain montage, and 91% by A/EEG-SP. The highest yield achieved by A/EEG-SP as compared with other EEG recordings was documentation of spontaneous seizures of temporal lobe origin. The detection rate of spontaneous seizures by A/EEG-SP was approximately 30%, and the focal or regional onset of seizures could be determined in 60% of patients. In group B, detection of temporal spikes was 11% by R/EEG, 18% by SP/EEG, and 30% by A/EEG-SP. Spontaneous seizures were recorded by A/EEG-SP in two patients (10%). Thus, A/EEG-SP was more effective than A/EEG in detecting interictal and ictal temporal discharges, and A/EEG-SP was superior to SP/EEG in documenting spontaneous seizures of temporal lobe origin. 
Gastroesophageal reflux and upper airway diseases. GER can have important impacts on the upper airway passages, and in turn, upper airway obstruction can certainly aggravate reflux. This relationship should be considered in the newborn or young infant, faced with a sudden life-threatening event, and in the older child or adult presenting with chronic head and neck complaints, either unexplained or unresponsive to adequate medical therapy. A causal relationship may be difficult to establish, based first on clinical expertise as a guideline, on laboratory tests, among which pharyngeal pH monitoring could be promising, and on response to medical antireflux therapy. A better understanding of the significance of high levels of reflux and defective acid clearance, as well as a more precise knowledge of the maturation and functioning of upper airway protective mechanisms, would open the way to more accurate diagnostic procedures, to a more reliable definition of the abnormal, and to greater efficiency in the management of these patients. 
Pentavalent technetium-99m-DMSA uptake in a patient having multiple myeloma without amyloidosis. A pentavalent 99mTc-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scan was performed on a patient with multiple myeloma without amyloidosis. A high accumulation of the tracer was found in numerous tumors. We believe that the accumulation of DMSA is unrelated to amyloidosis and that the DMSA scan may have potential for the staging of tumors in patients presenting with multiple myeloma. 
The influence of the menstrual cycle and pregnancy on atopic dermatitis. The prevalence of a premenstrual deterioration in the symptoms of atopic dermatitis, as determined by a postal questionnaire completed by 150 women, was 33%. There was a significant association between a premenstrual worsening of atopic dermatitis and the presence of the symptoms of the premenstrual syndrome (P less than 0.002). Pregnancy had an adverse effect on atopic dermatitis in the majority of cases (52%), usually starting in the first 20 weeks of gestation, although an appreciable proportion of women (24%) had improved during their pregnancy. 
Comparison of cellular protooncogene activation and transformation-related activity of human melanocytes and metastatic melanoma. Two cell lines (NH and HM1), established from patients with metastatic melanomas, were evaluated for the presence of activated cellular protooncogenes. Northern blot analysis demonstrated increased expression of the c-myc gene (from 9 to 14 times) in NH and HM1 cell lines by densitometric comparison with human melanocyte cell lines. Analysis of the expression of 13 additional cellular protooncogenes revealed either no detectable levels (c-fms, c-abl, v-src, c-erb A1, c-erb B, v-mos, TGF beta, and c-myb) or unaltered expression levels (cH-ras, N-ras, c-fos, and c-sis) in normal human melanocytes and metastatic melanomas. Elevated expression of the c-myc gene was also detected in two long-term cultured melanoma cell lines (RPMI 7951 and SKMEL-30). Analysis of c-myc expression by in situ hybridization in HM1 cells showed that expression was not localized to a sub-population of cycling cells and all cells were overexpressing c-myc mRNA. Differences in relative abundance of c-myc transcripts suggests a relationship with the ability of DNA from these cell lines to efficiently transform NIH 3T3 cells and form colonies on soft agar. 
Sulfasalazine treatment in juvenile chronic arthritis: an open study. In an open study, the effect of sulfasalazine was evaluated in the treatment of juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA). Forty-one patients, i.e., 27 boys and 14 girls with JCA under 16 years of age, were included in the study. In all of them, treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID) had been unable to control the disease. The patients were divided in 4 subgroups depending on the mode of onset and evolution (Type I = systemic onset, Type II = polyarticular form. Type IIIa and Type IIIb = pauciarticular form). Remission was achieved in 21 patients, significant improvement in 12. Status was unchanged in 4 patients and worsened in 3. In 5 patients side effects were observed, which forced interruption of treatment in 4. Sulfasalazine was stopped in 7 patients: for toxicity in 4 and for inefficacy in 3. In 7 other patients the treatment was terminated after a prolonged remission. These promising results must be confirmed in a double blind versus placebo study, preferably restricted to type III JCA. 
In vitro fragmentation of gallstones: comparison of electrohydraulic, electromagnetic and piezoelectric shockwave lithotripters. To compare the fragmentation efficiency of three different shockwave systems, 63 human gallstone triplets were disintegrated in vitro using an electrohydraulic (MPL 9000, Dornier), an electromagnetic (Lithostar Plus, Siemens) and a piezoelectric (Piezolith 2300, R. Wolf) lithotripter. Since each stone triplet was obtained from the same gallbladder, the concrements of one such set were identical in physicochemical parameters. According to the maximal diameter, the calculi were divided into group A (6 to 15 mm) and group B (16 to 30 mm). Shockwave application was terminated when residual fragments measured 4 mm or less. Forty-five triplets were fragmented at energy settings mainly used in clinical treatment of patients with gallbladder stones (MPL 9000: 20 kV; Lithostar Plus: setting 9 (maximal); Piezolith 2300: setting 3). The fragmentation endpoint was achieved in group A (n = 3 x 36) with the Piezolith 2300 after median 150 (range = 50 to 500) pulses and with the Lithostar Plus after 150 (50 to 750) pulses compared with 500 (50 to 1,500) pulses using the MPL 9000 (p less than 0.01). In group B (n = 3 x 9) the Lithostar Plus (median = 750, range = 250 to 1,250 pluses) required fewer discharges than the Piezolith 2300 (1,250, 250 to 2,500 pulses; p less than 0.05) and the MPL (1,500, 500 to 1,600 [upper limit] pulses; p less than 0.01). 
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy, surgery, and postoperative radiation therapy for invasive thymoma. Between January 1988 and June 1990, seven previously untreated patients with histologically confirmed and clinically staged IIIa invasive thymoma (IT) were enrolled in a prospective, single treatment arm study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NC) followed by surgery and postoperative radiation therapy (4600 to 6000 cGy). The NC included three cycles of cisplatin (75 mg/m2 on day 1), epirubicin (100 mg/m2 on day 1), and etoposide (120 mg/m2 on days 1, 3, and 5), every 3 weeks. All patients showed a partial response (greater than 50%) and underwent complete (n = 4) or incomplete (gross [n = 1] or microscopic [n = 2] residual tumor) surgical resection. Histologic examination was negative for two completely resected patients. Projected 2-year survival was 80%; all patients but one currently are alive and disease-free. This approach appeared to be feasible and may be a new therapeutic choice in the management of IT, but its use on a regular basis should be reserved until a larger number of patients and longer follow-up are available. 
Bezold-Jarisch reflex in postoperative pediatric cardiac surgical patients. The Bezold-Jarisch reflex is an inhibitory reflex that originates from the heart, is mediated by the vagus nerve, and is manifested by hypotension and bradycardia. We present 4 pediatric cardiac surgical patients, aged 1 day to 9 months, who exhibited cardiovascular collapse in their early postoperative course. In each patient, cardiovascular deterioration was marked by an insidious decrease in arterial blood pressure without an associated change in heart rate, central venous pressure, or airway pressure. Bradycardia followed the decrease in blood pressure. The Bezold-Jarisch reflex was suspected and atropine was administered, first as a bolus injection at 0.01 mg/kg, and later, as a continuous infusion at 0.01 mg.kg-1.h-1. Atropine prevented recurrent episodes of hypotension and bradycardia. We believe the Bezold-Jarisch reflex is more prevalent than previously suspected in postoperative pediatric cardiac surgical patients. 
Comparative effect of heparin treatment with and without strenuous exercise on treadmill capacity in patients with stable effort angina. It has recently been demonstrated that treadmill capacity and collateral circulation improve as a result of exercise with heparin pretreatment in patients with effort angina. In the present study, we assessed whether heparin alone is effective in increasing treadmill capacity in 14 patients with effort angina. Patients were randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms: (1) group A--20 treadmill exercise periods with standard Bruce protocol twice a day for 10 days with heparin (5000 IU intravenously) pretreatment (seven patients) or (2) group B--10 injections of heparin calcium (10,000 IU subcutaneously) once a day for 10 days (seven patients). In group A, total exercise time was increased from 6.9 +/- 1.2 (SD) to 9.9 +/- 1.9 minutes (p less than 0.0005), as was the maximal double product, from 21,700 +/- 3,500 to 27,000 +/- 4,800 mm Hg/min (p less than 0.05). The double product at the onset of angina was also increased by 34% (p less than 0.05), and the double product at which ST depression (0.1 mV) first appeared was 22% (p less than 0.05) greater after treatment. In contrast, in group B, all of the above-mentioned parameters of treadmill capacity remained unchanged. These data indicate that heparin does not serve as an angiogenic factor by itself, but that it potentiates the ischemia-derived angiogenic factor. 
Pregnancy-induced changes in drug metabolism in epileptic women. The pharmacokinetics of antiepileptic drugs may be altered during pregnancy, resulting in decline of serum concentrations and subsequent suboptimal control of seizures. We investigated changes which may occur during pregnancy in hepatic drug handling by comparing metabolic ratios of 15 pregnant epileptic women to 15 nonpregnant epileptic women, as well as 10 pregnant nonepileptic and 10 nonpregnant nonepileptic controls. We used the caffeine test to describe several enzyme activities: P450 1A2, xanthine oxidase, n-acetyltransferase and hydroxylation. For this end, ratios were calculated among a number of metabolites of the main demethylation pathway of caffeine. In addition, we measured D-glucaric acid excretion for specific characterization of antiepileptic drug metabolism. Paired comparison of epileptic women in late pregnancy and six to eight weeks post partum revealed statistically significant decreases in P450 1A2, xanthine oxidase and n-acetyltransferase activities, and a significantly increased hydroxylation activity during pregnancy. Twenty-one of the 30 epileptic women (70%) were found to be fast acetylators, whereas the normal distribution in the nonepileptic control groups was 50%. Excretion of D-glucaric acid was significantly increased in all epileptic patient groups as compared to the matched nonepileptic control groups. Importantly, it was also significantly increased in the pregnant nonepileptic control group as compared to the nonpregnant nonepileptic women. Overall, our results suggest that enzymatic pathways involved in antiepileptic drug metabolism tend to be increased during pregnancy as a potential cause for observed lower serum concentrations of these drugs. 
Problems and coping strategies of individuals with traumatic brain injury and their spouses. A pilot investigation is reported on the problems and coping strategies of 20 married men and 11 married women with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and their able-bodied spouses. All injured subjects experienced severe head injury at least one and a half years earlier. A structured, small-group discussion process was used to elicit a prioritized list of problems and a similar list of coping strategies. Individuals with TBI and their spouses identified problems in living as most important; loss of employment and restrictions on autonomy were reported as the most problematic. Men with TBI placed priority on controlling their anger, whereas, women with TBI were concerned with their mood disorders, particularly depression. Women with TBI and able-bodied wives of men with TBI placed high priority on the use of support groups as a coping strategy. Men placed higher priority on individualistic approaches to adjustment, such as suppression of feelings. A number of testable hypotheses resulted from the pilot study. 
Adult polycystic disease of the liver. Adult polycystic liver disease (APLD) is a rare disorder of liver parenchyma occasionally requiring surgical treatment. Its association with adult polycystic kidney disease has meant that as renal dialysis has become widely available there is an increased number of patients surviving with cystic liver changes. Although usually asymptomatic, patients with APLD may present with abdominal pain or swelling. Liver function is not usually compromised and computed tomography or abdominal ultrasonography are the most useful investigations. The complications of cyst rupture, infection, cholangiocarcinoma and compression of surrounding structures are discussed. Surgical treatment remains controversial, and the options of cyst puncture, fenestration with or without hepatic resection, and liver transplantation are reviewed. 
Image processing in swallowing and speech research. An image processing system for application to studies of the temporal and spatial parameters of movement during swallowing and speech is described. Image sequences from videotape are digitized for computerized manipulation and analysis in an attempt to improve on conventional visual inspection. The system is "interactive" or "event-driven": after executing a function, the computer waits for guidance from the user who controls the program through keyboard and mouse input, selecting options from menus and responding to prompts. The analyst alters image clarity by the application of filters and heightens contrast through video enhancement. A technique called "remapping" reduces head motion and provides uniform spatial scaling. Animated sequences of images are used, as opposed to frame-by-frame analysis, to preserve temporal context and increase efficiency of measurement. Low cost off-the-shelf personal computer hardware is used along with original software tailored to the application. 
Treatment of urticaria and angioedema: low-sedating H1-type antihistamines. H1-type antihistamines are considered the therapeutic agents of choice for treating urticaria and angioedema. The use of traditional H1 antihistamines is limited by their side effects. In recent years low-sedating H1 antihistamines with reduced sedative and anticholinergic side effects have become popular choices for the treatment of urticaria and angioedema. Terfenadine and astemizole are currently available in the United States, and cetirizine and loratadine, currently under review at the Food and Drug Administration, are available in other countries. Terfenadine, cetirizine, and loratadine achieve rapid peak plasma concentrations in 1 to 2 hours, whereas astemizole has a slow onset of action. In double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of chronic idiopathic urticaria, low-sedating H1 antihistamines were more effective than placebo. The choice of a particular low-sedating H1 antihistamine depends on pharmacokinetic considerations and frequency of administration. 
Value and limitations of color Doppler echocardiography in the evaluation of percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty for isolated mitral stenosis. The limitations of 2-dimensional and pulsed Doppler echocardiography in patients undergoing mitral valvuloplasty are well known. This study was undertaken to assess the value of color Doppler flow imaging in 36 symptomatic mitral stenosis patients who subsequently underwent successful balloon mitral valvuloplasty by comparing the results to those obtained at cardiac catheterization. Color Doppler-guided conventional Doppler assessment agreed well with cardiac catheterization results in classifying mitral stenosis as mild, moderately severe and severe, both before and after valvuloplasty. Color Doppler was also useful in identifying patients who had moderate to severe mitral regurgitation before and after valvuloplasty. Color Doppler flow mapping was more sensitive than oximetry in the detection of iatrogenic atrial septal defects, which were noted in 25 patients. The defects of those patients with smaller defects by color Doppler (diameter less than 0.7 cm) or echocardiographic shunt volume less than 0.7 liters/min tended to close, usually within 6 months, as opposed to those with larger defects or higher shunt volumes, which tended to persist. Echocardiographic shunt volumes revealed a fair correlation with oximetric results. 
Sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with sarcoidosis: assessment of the underlying cardiac anatomy and the prospective utility of programmed ventricular stimulation, drug therapy and an implantable antitachycardia device. The presentation, cardiac anatomy and utility of programmed ventricular stimulation in seven patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with sarcoidosis are described. The mean patient age was 38 +/- 8 years. Pulmonary involvement was apparent in three patients and no systemic manifestations of sarcoidosis were present in one patient. All patients had electrocardiographic abnormalities at rest and six had a left ventricular ejection fraction less than 45%. All seven patients had left ventricular wall motion abnormalities and five had mitral valve dysfunction. Sustained ventricular tachycardia was easily induced in all patients. Spontaneous sustained ventricular tachycardia was not prevented with corticosteroid administration. Despite antiarrhythmic drug therapy, two patients had sudden cardiac death and an additional four had recurrence of ventricular tachycardia. Four patients had an automatic cardioverter-defibrillator implanted and received drug therapy; all four received appropriate shocks. This report represents the largest descriptive series of consecutive patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with sarcoidosis. Antiarrhythmic drug therapy of ventricular tachycardia in patients with sarcoidosis, even when guided with programmed ventricular stimulation, is associated with a high rate of arrhythmia recurrence or sudden death, or both. Thus, implantation of an automatic antitachycardia device (cardioverter-defibrillator) should be considered as primary therapy in such patients. Furthermore, sarcoidosis should be excluded, with Kveim skin testing if necessary, in any patient with sustained ventricular tachycardia of unknown origin. 
Peroxisomes and the fatty liver of malnutrition: an hypothesis. Peroxisomes play a role in hepatic beta-oxidation of fat, a process that results in the production of hydrogen peroxide. The fatty infiltration of the liver that occurs in severely malnourished children remains unexplained. We observed an almost total absence of peroxisomes in the hepatocytes of these children. We suggest that lack of available peroxisomes could contribute to the development of fatty liver. 
Vasoconstriction of canine coronary collateral vessels with vasopressin limits blood flow to collateral-dependent myocardium during exercise. This study was performed to test the hypothesis that active constriction of coronary collateral vessels can worsen hypoperfusion of collateral-dependent myocardium during exercise. Studies were performed in seven adult mongrel dogs in which intermittent followed by permanent occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery produced an area of collateral-dependent myocardium without gross evidence of infarct. Myocardial blood flow was determined with microspheres while measurement of aortic and distal coronary pressures allowed calculation of collateral and small vessel resistance at rest and during treadmill exercise. The ability of collateral vessel constriction to limit blood flow was assessed by infusion of vasopressin during exercise. During control conditions, blood flow in the collateral zone underwent a subnormal increase during exercise in comparison with the normal zone (1.74 +/- 0.27 versus 2.50 +/- 0.40 ml/min/g, respectively, p less than 0.05). Infusion of vasopressin in a dose that caused no change in normal zone flow (0.01 microgram/kg/min i.v.) produced a 30 +/- 5% further decrease in flow to the collateral zone (p less than 0.01). This decrease in collateral zone flow resulted from a 48 +/- 14% increase in transcollateral resistance in response to vasopressin infusion (p less than 0.01), as well as a 40 +/- 9% increase in small vessel resistance in the collateral zone (p less than 0.01). These data demonstrate that active constriction of both collateral vessels and coronary resistance vessels can contribute to hypoperfusion of collateral-dependent myocardium during exercise. 
Myocardial revascularization for chronic stable angina. Analysis of the role of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty based on data available in 1989 No prospective, randomized clinical trial comparing coronary artery bypass grafting, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and conservative therapy has been reported. To address when revascularization is indicated, we constructed a decision analytic model. Our model incorporates procedure-related mortality and morbidity, coronary artery disease-related mortality, and the benefit of revascularization. We determined the quality-adjusted life expectancy and expected costs for each strategy. Our model suggests that angioplasty is a reasonable alternative to bypass surgery in patients with favorable lesions if angioplasty would provide a comparable degree of revascularization. Our model predicts that patients treated with angioplasty will have more revascularization procedures than will patients treated with bypass surgery but predicts that both treatments will cost the same over the typical patient's lifetime. In many patients with severe angina or documented ischemia, angioplasty is indicated for stenosis of a single artery. In patients with two vessel disease that is amenable to angioplasty, angioplasty may be a reasonable alternative to bypass surgery. Even in patients whose three vessel disease can be completely revascularized by angioplasty, bypass surgery, although relatively expensive, is slightly better than angioplasty. In patients with three vessel disease and comorbidities that increase operative risk, angioplasty may be a reasonable alternative to either bypass surgery or medical therapy. 
Hepatitis B vaccination in children infected with Schistosoma mansoni: correlation with ultrasonographic data. Forty-one schoolchildren with positive stools for Schistosoma mansoni eggs and 39 age- and sex-matched children with negative stools were given 3 doses, 5 micrograms each, of a plasma derived hepatitis B vaccine. Their sera were examined 3 and 9 months after the third dose for hepatitis B surface antibody (anti-HBs). At 9 months after vaccination, both the number of responders and the mean of antibody titers were significantly higher in the control group than in the group infected with S. mansoni (97% vs. 56% and 334.8 +/- 192.9 vs. 67.7 +/- 74.4 mIU/ml). There was a negative correlation between anti-HBs titers and the long diameter of the spleen as well as between the titers and the long diameter of the spleen and the liver span in the mid-clavicular line (right lobe) taken together. There was also a positive correlation between anti-HBs titers and the diameters of the portal vein. There was no correlation between anti-HBs titers and any of the following 3 parameters: liver span in the mid-clavicular line (right lobe) alone, liver span in the middle line (left lobe) alone, and the degree of thickness of the periportal fibrosis. There was also no correlation between anti-HBs titers and egg counts in the stools. An interpretation of these findings was made in the light of the role of phagocytic activity of the liver and spleen as well as of porta-caval shunts in the immune mechanism. 
Growth and histopathology of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma implanted intraorally in nude mice. A human squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) from the floor of the mouth (FOM) was implanted by a needle aspiration technique in the FOM site of athymic nude mice. Mice were killed at 3-week intervals, and the oral cavity, mandible, and neck were sectioned and examined histologically. Tumor growth was observed in 65% of the animals, with histologic features consistent with the engrafted human invasive SCC. These features included invasion of connective tissue in 92%, invasion of muscle in 77%, invasion and destruction of bone in 54%, and vascular invasion in 15% of the mice. In contrast, FOM tumor implanted subcutaneously on back sites of nude mice was totally encapsulated by fibrous connective tissue with evidence of capsular invasion. SCC from other head and neck sites showed similar locally invasive growth after intraoral implantation in nude mice. The results demonstrate the invasive characteristics of human head and neck SCC grown in the homologous oral cavity site in nude mice and support the nude mouse as a biologically relevant in vivo model in the investigation of the biologic characteristics and therapy of head and neck carcinoma. 
Clinical and CT correlates in the diagnosis of intracranial tumours. The correlation between clinical and CT findings in cerebral tumours was prospectively studied in 1191 consecutive referrals for cerebral CT. CT revealed a mass lesion in 51 cases (4.3%): 32 neoplasms, five haematomas and one abscess. The diagnostic specificity of CT for neoplasmic tumours was 86% (32 of 37). The clinical suspicion of a cerebral neoplasm was correct in 25 cases (78%) and the clinical localisatory hypothesis was correct in 20 cases (63%) of the neoplasms. A cerebral tumour was found in 5% (11 out of 226) of patients investigated for their first seizure and in 1% (two of 207) investigated for headache without clinical signs. 
Blunted renal sodium excretion during acute saline loading in normotensive men with positive family histories of hypertension. The natriuretic and intra-arterial blood pressure response to an acute saline load (1000 mL 0.9% NaCl), was studied in normotensive young men with positive (n = 11) and negative (n = 21) family histories of hypertension. The age-matched (36 +/- 5 years) control group with negative family histories of hypertension was subdivided into two groups, one matched for body mass index (BMI) to the subjects with positive family histories of hypertension (n = 10), and another lean control group (n = 11). Baseline blood pressure was significantly higher in subjects with positive family histories of hypertension and in controls matched for BMI as compared with lean controls. Sodium excretion increased in all three groups during the saline infusion, while subjects with positive family histories of hypertension disclosed a diminished natriuretic response as compared with the two control groups. Systolic blood pressure increased significantly during the saline load in subjects with positive family histories of hypertension, while in subjects with negative family histories of hypertension, no significant change in blood pressure was observed. Plasma renin activity, angiotensin II, serum aldosterone, plasma noradrenaline, blood volume, and ouabain-sensitive erythrocyte sodium efflux rate constant did not differ between the three groups at baseline. A significant negative correlation was found between baseline sodium excretion and sodium efflux rate constant in subjects with positive family histories of hypertension. We conclude that the subjects with positive family histories of hypertension exhibit a blunted natriuretic and an exaggerated blood pressure response to an acute saline load as compared with the two control groups with negative family histories of hypertension. This could be of neuronal and/or hormonal origin. 
Left ventricular outflow obstruction resulting from insertion of mitral prostheses leaving the native leaflets intact: adverse clinical outcome in seven patients. Left ventricular (LV) outflow obstruction may result from retaining the anterior mitral leaflet when a mitral prosthesis is inserted in the mitral anulus. We retrospectively reviewed the echocardiograms (two-dimensional Doppler and Doppler color flow imaging, or transesophageal with color flow imaging) obtained in seven patients with preoperative mitral regurgitation who had a prosthesis implanted with the native mitral leaflets left intact. Systolic anterior motion of the native anterior mitral leaflet, as seen in dynamic LV outflow tract obstruction, was observed in six of seven patients. LV fractional shortening preoperatively was less than or equal to 0.25 in all (mean 0.20 +/- 0.04) and did not significantly (p = ns) increase postoperatively (mean 0.27 +/- 0.12). Color flow imaging revealed disturbed systolic flow in the LV outflow tract in five patients, and all had systolic anterior motion of the native anterior mitral leaflet. Continuous wave Doppler detected significant systolic LV outflow tract jets in five patients averaging 4.1 +/- 0.9 m/sec. Mitral prosthetic function was normal (pressure half-time of 81 +/- 25 msec and mean gradient of 7 +/- 3 mm Hg +/- SD) in five patients. Clinical follow-up revealed that all had died, six of them within 2 months of their operation. Thus systolic anterior motion of the native anterior mitral leaflet occurs commonly after prosthetic mitral valve insertion with the native leaflets left intact. Continuous wave Doppler often demonstrates increased systolic LV outflow tract velocities consistent with dynamic LV outflow obstruction. 
Treatment of systemic vasculitis with pooled intravenous immunoglobulin. The therapeutic effect of a course of high-dose, pooled, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) on disease activity and circulating antineutrophil cytoplasm antibodies (ANCA) was investigated in 7 patients with systemic vasculitis. 5 had active disease despite conventional immunosuppression, and 2 had not received any treatment. All 7 had clinical improvement, which was sustained in 6 and transient in 1. The fall in ANCA concentrations to a mean of 51% of the pre-treatment values was maintained during follow-up. C-reactive protein concentration also dropped considerably. IVIg seemed to confer a useful therapeutic effect without adverse reaction. 
Three different frameshift mutations of the tyrosinase gene in type IA oculocutaneous albinism. Mutations in the gene for the pigment-producing enzyme tyrosinase are responsible for type IA (tyrosinase-negative) oculocutaneous albinism (OCA). Most reported mutations have been single base substitutions. We now report three different frameshift mutations in three unrelated individuals with type IA OCA. The first individual has a single base deletion within a series of five guanidines, resulting in a premature stop codon in exon I on one allele and a missense mutation at codon 382 in exon III on the homologous allele. The second individual is a genetic compound of two separate frameshift mutations, including both the same exon I single base deletion found in the first individual and a deletion of a thymidine-guanidine pair, within the sequence GTGTG, forming a termination codon (TAG) in exon I on the homologous allele. The third individual has a single base insertion in exon I on one allele and a missense mutation at codon 373 in exon III on the homologous allele. The two missense mutations occur within the copper Bbinding region and may interfere with either copper binding to the enzyme or oxygen binding to the copper. These five different mutations disrupt tyrosinase function and are associated with a total lack of melanin biosynthesis. 
Selective microscopic examination of gallbladders, hernia sacs, and appendices. The usefulness of many "routine" medical procedures is being challenged in the health care atmosphere of today. This study was undertaken to determine the utility of routine microscopic pathologic examination of three frequently submitted surgical specimens. Pathology reports of 39,568 consecutive specimens, 17,105 appendices, 14,654 hernia sacs, and 7,809 gallbladders, submitted over a 49-year period, were reviewed. Microscopic examination of these tissues detected few unexpected findings. In those instances in which unexpected findings were discovered the primary surgery was curative or additional surgery would not have altered the prognosis. When careful, thorough gross examination by the surgeon and pathologist failed to disclose significant abnormalities or confirmed obvious disease such as inflammation, microscopic examination of these tissues might have been eliminated without a change in patient outcome. Although it could be argued that this microscopic pathologic correlation may be helpful for quality control and/or feedback of surgical decision making, the data indicate that gross examination alone may be sufficient in most cases, since unexpected microscopic findings are rare. The indications for microscopic examination of appendices, hernia sacs, and gallbladders are listed. Substantial savings of resources and time may be expected when selective microscopic examination is used. 
Older age and elevated blood pressure are risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage after thrombolysis. Intracerebral hemorrhage is an important concern after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, but risk factors are controversial. Accordingly, we assessed risk factors in 107 treated patients of whom 4 had intracerebral hemorrhage. Intracerebral hemorrhage occurred at a mean of 25 hours (range 3.5 to 48) after therapy and was fatal in 2 patients. Significant differences were found between patients with and without intracerebral hemorrhage for age (77 +/- 7 vs 62 +/- 11 years, p less than or equal to 0.01), and initial (161 +/- 23 vs 135 +/- 23 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.03) and maximal (171 +/- 30 vs 146 +/- 20, p less than or equal to 0.02) systolic blood pressures. Initial and maximal diastolic blood pressures also tended to be higher (101 +/- 25 vs 86 +/- 16, p less than or equal to 0.07; 104 +/- 24 vs 90 +/- 13, p less than or equal to 0.06). Differences did not achieve significance for comparisons of gender, height, weight, site of infarction, time to therapy, specific thrombolytic agent used, concomitant therapy, interventions and partial thromboplastin time. It is concluded that age (greater than or equal to 70 years) and elevated blood pressure (greater than or equal to 150/95 mm Hg) are important risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage. The overall balance of benefit and risk of thrombolysis should continue to be assessed by large mortality trials. 
Mortality in acute cerebral infarction in young adults--a ten-year experience. We reviewed the one-month mortality among 213 patients aged fifteen to forty-five years (mean thirty-five) with acute cerebral infarction (CI) evaluated during the period July 1, 1977, to February 1, 1988. Atherosclerotic cerebral infarction (ACI) was diagnosed in 59 (27.7%) patients, 53 (24.9%) had non-atherosclerotic vasculopathies (NAV); 46 (21.6%) had cardioembolic infarcts (CEI). Hematologically related disorders were diagnosed in 30 (14.1%) patients; the cause of CI could not be established in 25 (11.7%) patients. Fourteen patients (9 men, 5 women, mean age 34.8 years), (6.6%) died within thirty days of their CI: 7 had CEI (7/46,15.2%); 4 had ACI (4/59, 6.7%); and 3 had NAV (3/53, 5.6%). Our data suggest that young patients with acute CI have a thirty-day mortality rate lower than older patients. Deaths were most common in patients with CEI. Brain edema and herniation accounted for 6 (43%) of the deaths. 
Body fat, coronary heart disease, and stroke in Japanese men. The Honolulu Heart Program (HHP) is a prospective study of heart disease and stroke in Japanese-American men in Hawaii. Body weight, height, and subscapular and triceps skinfold thicknesses were measured by using standard methods at the baseline exam held in 1965-1968. The relationship of measures of body fatness to the 20-y follow-up for coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke of these men was explored. Body mass index (BMI), subscapular skinfold thicknesses, and centrality index (subscapular skinfold thickness/triceps skinfold thickness) were predictors of CHD in this population, even after other risk factors were added to a multivariate model, indicating an independent contribution of body fat to CHD risk. Neither BMI nor centrality index was related to stroke. However, subscapular skinfold thickness was an independent predictor of stroke. The implications of these findings are that lifestyle changes that lead to an increase in obesity of Japanese men in Hawaii may increase risk for cardiovascular disease. 
IIB osteosarcoma. Current management, local control, and survival statistics--The Netherlands. Guarded optimism is justified in light of the results of treatment of IIB osteosarcoma in the Netherlands. This is due to improvements in diagnostic imaging techniques, staging, adjuvant chemotherapy, and surgical treatment. Five-year survival rates have increased from 25% to 80%. En bloc resection is currently possible. This makes reconstructive procedure justified, both from an oncologic and orthopedic view. Many questions are still unanswered, concerning evaluation of tumor necrosis because of chemotherapy, optimal adjuvant therapy, functional evaluation of different types of reconstruction, and psychological development of the patient. An international gathering of data on the overall treatment of IIB osteosarcoma is advocated to find answers on the above-mentioned questions. A noninvasive adjustable-lengthening prosthesis is mentioned as a Dutch solution to leg-length discrepancy. This prosthesis can be used after limb-saving surgery in young children. 
Minimal change nephrotic syndrome in adults: response to corticosteroid therapy and frequency of relapse. Rate of response to a corticosteroid and frequency of relapse were studied in 33 patients with adult-onset minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). Of these, 28 patients were treated with oral prednisolone (PSL) at 1 mg/kg/d for from 4 to 8 weeks depending on their response, followed by PSL, at gradually tapering doses for 1 year. Five severely nephrotic patients received 1 g of methylprednisolone intravenously (IV) for 3 days, followed by 40 mg/d oral PSL for 4 to 8 weeks and finally PSL in gradually reduced doses. Sixteen patients (48%) were free of proteinuria within 4 weeks, and 25 (76%) within 8 weeks. Two patients required cyclophosphamide for induction of remission. Age at presentation was not significantly correlated with response time to corticosteroid therapy. Thirty-two (97%) went into remission, and relapse occurred in 11 (34%) of these. As assessed by the life-table method, 84% of patients were still in remission at 6 months after induction of remission, 75% after 1 year, and 63% during the follow-up period (mean, 47.1 +/- 29.1 months; range, 6 to 123 months). Incidence of relapse was not correlated with remission induction time, ie, earlier (less than or equal to 4 weeks) or later (greater than 4 weeks), but was greater in younger (less than 30 years of age) patients than older (greater than or equal to 30 years) patients (P less than 0.03). At the last follow-up, 31 patients (94%) were in complete remission and had normal renal function. 
Applying psychometric criteria to functional assessment in medical rehabilitation: I. Exploring unidimensionality. While rehabilitation providers are facing increasing pressure to document treatment outcomes, critics have warned against the inappropriate use of ordinal functional assessment data in arithmetic operations. Two salient criticisms concern the combination of items representing multidimensional abilities into a single total score, and the indeterminate distances between hierarchical functional assessment scale categories. In this initial study, the factor structure of the Patient Evaluation and Conference System (PECS) was studied to assess the potential for unidimensional measurement. Factor analysis of a multidiagnostic dataset (n = 3,564) yielded eight factors accounting for 60% of the variance among 68 PECS items. The factors indicate that several unidimensional measures may underlie the PECS. These factors are delineated, and further studies of unidimensionality and additivity are recommended. 
Ganglioside GM3:GD3 ratio as an index for the management of melanoma. This report evaluates the relevance of the ratio of the melanoma-associated ganglioside, GD3, and its precursor, GM3, to prognosis and management of Stage II disease. Tumor biopsy specimens from 42 melanoma patients were examined for the ratio and found that GD3 and GM3 constitute 80% of the total lipid bound sialic acids (LBSA) of melanoma. Although the ratio of GM3:GD3 in melanocytes, the progenitors of melanoma, is 19:1 (based on %LBSA), it ranged from 15:1 to 1:5 in tumor biopsy specimens. Patients are categorized into three groups based on their GM3:GD3 ratio (%LBSA) of tumor tissues as Group I (ratio ranged from 15:1 to 1.5:1) (10 of 42), Group II (1.4:1 to 1:1.4) (13 of 42), and Group III (1:1.5 to 1:5) (19 of 42). When the overall survival of patients from the onset of Stage II disease was evaluated among different groups, patients belonging to Group I survived significantly longer than patients of Group II (P = 0.02) and Group III (P = 0.01). Interestingly, Group III expressed immunogenic gangliosides (GD2, GM2, and O-AcGD3) better than the other groups and may benefit more from therapies targeted against these gangliosides antigens. The results of this study indicate that GM3:GD3 ratio is an unusual but well-defined biochemical criteria that may be useful for prognosis and therapeutic management of the disease. Therefore, we propose a routine analysis of the GM3:GD3 ratio of tumors excised after surgery. Screening the ratio is feasible since melanoma expresses a simple profile of gangliosides unlike other forms of cancer. 
Hemodynamic effects and tolerability of intravenous amiodarone in patients with impaired left ventricular function. Acute hemodynamic effects and tolerability of intravenous amiodarone, 5 mg/kg administered over 5 minutes, were compared in patients with coronary artery disease and either a normal (left ventricular [LV] ejection fraction greater than or equal to 45%, n = 10, group N) or impaired LV function (ejection fraction less than 45%, n = 9, group L). Amiodarone reduced systemic vascular resistence and LV and aortic pressures in both groups (13%, 18%, and 13%, respectively [group N], and 15%, 17%, and 15%, respectively [group L]) over the short term. Heart rate initially increased (18%, group L, and 10% group N), but was followed by a late 6% decrease in group N only, and by a progressive reduction in contractility (Vmax), together with a rise in LV end-diastolic pressure (19% and 38%, respectively [group N] and 17% and 58%, respectively [group L]; all values p less than 0.05 versus control). Coronary flow increased significantly by 20% (group N) and 31% (group L), but only during amiodarone administration, accompanied by a 26% and 25% reduction in myocardial oxygen extraction in groups N and L, respectively. Stroke work decreased in both groups (20% [group N] and 19% [group L], p less than 0.05 versus control). In contrast, cardiac output only improved (10%) in patients with impaired ventricular function. Significant side effects did not occur. Thus relatively high dosages of intravenous amiodarone are well tolerated and improve cardiac pump function in patients with an impaired, but not with a normal cardiac function. However, the tendency to increase LV end-diastolic pressures necessitates careful monitoring in patients in whom preexisting LV filling pressure may be elevated. 
Bronchial carcinoid tumors: assessment with CT of location and intratumoral calcification in 31 patients. Bronchial carcinoid tumors (BCT) have long been regarded as predominantly central and rarely calcified. The authors retrospectively reviewed computed tomographic (CT) findings in 31 patients (thin-section CT studies in 18) who were seen at their institution with the histopathologic diagnosis of BCT (27 typical, four atypical) during the years 1978-1989. Eighteen BCT (58%) were central and 13 (42%) peripheral, with peripheral defined as located more than 2 cm distal to the origin of the appropriate segmental bronchus. CT scans revealed varied patterns of calcification in seven (39%) of the 18 central BCT and in one (8%) of the 13 peripheral BCT (P less than .1); overall, CT scans revealed calcification in eight (26%) of the BCT. The eight calcified tumors were each of the typical histopathologic type. Peripheral BCT (42%) were nearly as common as central BCT (58%), and CT detection of calcification in BCT was not uncommon (39% of central lesions; 26%, overall). 
Rickettsial infection of the central nervous system: the role of prompt antimicrobial therapy. Rickettsial diseases of man, which are prevalent in all the continents (except Antartica) continue to be a major health problem in tropical and temperate parts of the world. Rickettsioses must be considered in every traveller seeking medical attention soon after returning from endemic areas, since the disease can be associated with significant morbidity. When a definite diagnosis has been made by specific serological tests, prompt antimicrobial therapy is indicated. A tetracycline should be regarded as the drug of choice due to its high efficacy, low toxicity, superior in vitro activity and the possibility of relapse which can follow chloramphenicol therapy. 
Changes in splenic microcirculatory pathways in chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. The spleen plays a central role in the pathogenesis of chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP); it produces massive quantities of antiplatelet antibodies, leading to accelerated phagocytosis of platelets. Lymphoid hyperplasia typically occurs in the spleen, characterized by large numbers of lymphatic nodules with active germinal centers. Whether changes in splenic microcirculatory pathways also occur is not known. We have studied this question by scanning electron microscopy of corrosion casts, comparing spleens removed from patients with ITP with normal spleens obtained from organ transplant donors. The casts demonstrate two major changes in microcirculatory pathways in ITP. Firstly, a striking proliferation of arterioles and capillaries is found in the white pulp and marginal zone (MZ), seen as extensive vascularization in 92.3% of lymphatic nodules (n = 191) versus 0.6% (n = 224) in normal spleens. Secondly, the marginal sinus, a series of flattened, anastomosing vascular spaces between the white pulp and MZ, is absent in 89.4% of lymphatic nodules versus 4.9% in normal spleens. The cause of these microcirculatory changes, which may not be exclusive to ITP, is presently unknown. Absence of the marginal sinus may affect distribution of blood flow through the MZ such that platelets spend increased amounts of time in the proximity of macrophages. In the presence of antiplatelet antibodies found in ITP spleens, this delayed transit would lead to greatly increased platelet destruction. 
Thin-layer chromatography to monitor cholesterol gallstone dissolution by methyl tert-butyl ether. We describe a simple and inexpensive method of monitoring methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) dissolution of cholesterol gallstones with thin-layer chromatography (TLC) in 10 patients. TLC is a routine semiquantitative laboratory method that can be used to measure the cholesterol concentration present in the MTBE and bile mixture aspirated through the cholecystostomy catheter during gallstone dissolution. TLC is practical in the clinical setting because it can be used to determine if gallstone dissolution is occurring and when MTBE lavage is no longer effective. TLC is performed in the laboratory with routine material and is completed in 15 min. Each TLC measurement costs about $1. The procedure provides objective and specific chemical information on effectiveness and progression of gallstone dissolution, apart from the radiologic and sonographic studies. In our study, TLC signaled effective dissolution in the initial phase of gallstone dissolution by detecting large amounts of cholesterol in the MTBE and bile mixture even before a visible change in size or shape of the stone became apparent by transcatheter cholecystography or by sonography (six of 10 patients). Conversely, lack of cholesterol on TLC after 1 hr or more of MTBE infusion indicates that the stones are pigmented or contain substantial calcium. This means that dissolution with MTBE will be ineffective and that solvent infusion should be terminated. In those cases in which dissolution is progressing well, when TLC shows decreasing amounts of cholesterol in the effluent, only residual fragments insoluble to MTBE remain or the stone is sequestered from MTBE; at this point, solvent infusion should be discontinued or the catheter must be repositioned. Monitoring the rate of cholesterol dissolution by TLC provides important complementary information to cholecystography and sonography during gallstone treatment with MTBE. 
A comparison of two-point discrimination threshold of tactual, non-painful stimuli between chronic low back pain patients and controls. Differences in pain sensitivity between chronic pain patients and healthy controls have been reported. Seltzer and Seltzer extended this line of research in studying the sensitivity to non-painful stimuli. They reported that the 2-point discrimination threshold of chronic pain patients was higher than that of control subjects. However, the study of Seltzer and Seltzer suffered from several methodological shortcomings. Therefore, in the present study we tried to replicate the findings in a group of chronic low back pain patients using a design that was believed to be methodologically stronger. Replication failed: no evidence was found for the hypothesis that chronic pain patients are less sensitive to non-painful stimuli. Further studies on various defined types of acute and chronic pain patients are required. 
Hypertension in women: what is really known? The Women's Caucus, Working Group on Women's Health of the Society of General Internal Medicine. PURPOSE: To determine whether there is sufficient information in the medical literature to guide appropriate treatment of hypertensive women. DATA IDENTIFICATION: Epidemiologic surveys of hypertension, clinical trials of antihypertensive therapy, and studies of selected adverse effects of antihypertensive agents were identified through a computerized search using MEDLINE and by identifying all studies cited in current medical textbooks as supporting evidence for the guidelines for the treatment of hypertensive individuals. All epidemiologic studies selected were cross-sectional or longitudinal, multicenter, population-based surveys. All clinical trials were large, randomized studies comparing one or more antihypertensive agents with a placebo or nonplacebo control group. Epidemiologic studies and clinical trials were reviewed to assess the quantity and quality of information available regarding important aspects of hypertension in women. Data pertaining to epidemiology, natural history, results of treatment, and two significant side effects of antihypertensive treatment were examined. RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: The prevalence of hypertension is greater in black women than in black men and is about equal in white women and men. Because women outnumber men in the population, there are more hypertensive women than men. The attributable risk percent (the proportion of end points that could be eliminated by removing hypertension) for cardiovascular complications of hypertension is higher for women than men. Clinical trials show clear benefit of therapy for black women but no clear benefit for white women; some studies suggest that treatment of white women is harmful. Lipid profiles and their relation to ischemic heart disease differ for women and men; there is currently no information on the effects of antihypertensive agents on serum lipids in women. Few data have been published on the frequency of sexual dysfunction in treated hypertensive women. CONCLUSIONS: Hypertension in women and its related cardiovascular outcomes are a major public health problem. Clinical trials of antihypertensive therapy do not fully support current guidelines for the treatment of hypertensive women. Research concerning adverse effects of antihypertensive agents has largely excluded women from consideration; further studies are required to guide appropriate treatment. 
The role of endogenous gonadotropin release in the etiology of ovarian enlargement during purified urinary follicle-stimulating hormone therapy. Patients with polycystic ovarian disease were grouped into three groups according to their maximum ovarian diameter (maxD) after ovulation induction by purified urinary follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Serum luteinizing hormone (LH) and FSH were measured daily by radioimmunoassay and size and number of follicles were assessed by ultrasonography. Follicle-stimulating hormone in group A (80 mm less than or equal to maxD) was significantly higher than those of group B (60 mm less than or equal to maxD less than 80 mm) and C (maxD less than 60 mm) for the last 4 days of the treatment. This FSH rise in group A was not accounted for by FSH accumulation by the study of pharmacodynamics, and so was thought to be of endogenous origin. Luteinizing hormone was also elevated 3 days before the administration of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in both groups A and B. The number of follicles in group A at hCG administration was significantly greater than that of group C. Any significant differences were not found in either total amount of purified urinary FSH or in the basal FSH and the LH levels before treatment of the three groups. These results suggest that excessive ovarian enlargement during gonadotropin therapy is caused by multiple follicular development primarily stimulated by endogenous FSH. Endogenous LH release further enhances ovarian enlargement. 
Vascularized omentum graft for the reconstruction of the skull base after removal of a nasoethmoidal tumor with intracranial extension: case report. A 16-year-old boy with rhabdomyosarcoma occupying the nasal cavities and the ethmoid sinus with intracranial extension underwent transcranial surgery. The intradural tumor was resected first with the affected dura of the anterior skull base, and the dural defect was repaired with fascia harvested from the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. The remaining tumor contiguous to the nasal cavities was completely extirpated. The cranial cavity was then exposed to the opened nasal cavities, where a revascularized omental graft was used to separate these compartments. Lyophilized dura was placed beforehand beneath the omental graft, as a roof to the nasal cavity, and was removed 3 weeks later through the nostril. A bony skull base repair was performed over the omentum using the inner table of the bone flap. Subcutaneous fat from the abdomen was placed on the bone graft for fixation and as an additional seal for the dural defect. Reconstruction of the anterior skull base with a vascularized omental transfer provides an efficient barrier to the nasal cavity. It also serves as an excellent supporting structure for regeneration of the mucosal epithelium of the nasal cavities. 
Acute colorectal ischaemia after anaphylactoid shock. A 29 year old woman is reported with bloody diarrhoea three hours after developing anaphylactoid shock. Sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, and histology showed rectal and colonic ischaemia to the splenic flexure. Recovery was complete. There was no history of vascular disease but the patient was taking an oral contraceptive. Thirty one other cases of spontaneous ischaemic proctitis are reviewed. 
Beta-blocker treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy. Beneficial effect of carteolol in mice. BACKGROUND. The effects of carteolol, a nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor blocker with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, were compared with those of metoprolol in a murine model of viral myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy caused by encephalomyocarditis virus. METHODS AND RESULTS. In the acute experiment, BALB/c and DBA/2 mice were inoculated with encephalomyocarditis virus. BALB/c mice were then given carteolol at 1 (n = 10), 10 (n = 10), 30 (n = 11), or 100 mg/kg (n = 9) daily, and DBA/2 mice were given carteolol at 1 (n = 9) or 10 mg/kg (n = 9) daily starting the day of inoculation. Controls were given distilled water (n = 23 for BALB/c mice and n = 8 for DBA/2 mice). BALB/c mice were killed on day 7, and DBA/2 mice were killed on day 14. In the subacute experiment, DBA/2 mice were inoculated with the virus and then given carteolol at 1 (n = 12) or 10 mg/kg (n = 16), or distilled water (n = 27) daily, starting on day 14. Mice were killed on day 28. Virus replication, murine survival, heart weight to body weight ratio, and histopathological findings were similar in each group in the acute and subacute experiments. In the chronic experiment, DBA/2 mice were inoculated with the virus and were then given carteolol at 1 (n = 13) or 10 mg/kg (n = 9), metoprolol at 30 mg/kg (n = 9), or distilled water (n = 31) daily, starting on day 14. Mice were killed on day 104. Heart weight to body weight ratio and histopathological scores were significantly lower in mice given carteolol than in the infected control group. Furthermore, left ventricular cavity dimension, left ventricular wall thickness, and myocardial fiber diameter of the left ventricle were significantly reduced in mice given carteolol compared with the control group. Metoprolol did not cause any significant changes compared with the control group. CONCLUSIONS. This study suggests that carteolol prevents the development of myocardial lesions similar to those in dilated cardiomyopathy after myocarditis in the chronic stage. 
Lack of correlation between histologic findings and response to chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer. A retrospective analysis was undertaken to assess the prognostic role of histologic findings in response to chemotherapy and survival in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Histologic material was available for 395 of 1587 patients treated for metastatic breast cancer at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1973 and 1984. Chemotherapy consisted of 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide or similar drugs, with or without tamoxifen. Maintenance cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil was continued for 2 years after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 450 mg/m2 was administered. The histologic distribution was as follows: infiltrating ductal carcinoma, 353; invasive lobular, 14; mixed histology, ten; mucinous, seven; signet ring, four; tubular, three; papillary, two; sarcomatoid, one; and apocrine, one. Because individual histologic types occurred infrequently, the patients were divided into infiltrating ductal and nonductal groups. Baseline patient characteristics included age, performance status, estrogen-receptor status, prior hormone response, disease extent, and levels of alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, and lactate dehydrogenase. These were similar in the two groups. Significantly more patients with nonductal histology had greater than three metastatic sites. There were also more patients with hemoglobin less than 10 mg/dl and albumin less than 3.5 mg/dl in the nonductal group of patients. However, statistically these factors did not have an impact on the results. There was a 63% response rate (17% complete and 46% partial) for the ductal group and a 60% response rate (12% complete and 48% partial) for the nonductal group. The time from initiation of chemotherapy to disease progression was identical (12 months) for the two groups. Survival from initiation of chemotherapy was not significantly different (22 months for ductal and 27 months for nonductal). Based on this study, the authors conclude that histologic findings have no bearing on patient response to chemotherapy or survival in metastatic breast cancer. 
Long-term results of simple and radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. From 1974 to 1983, simple and radical nephrectomies were performed at the Chaim Sheba Medical Center (Tel Hashomer, Israel) for renal cell carcinoma. The authors reviewed 109 cases that were followed for a period ranging from 5 to 14 years. Simple nephrectomy was performed in 55 patients, and 54 patients underwent radical nephrectomy. The selection of the surgical procedure was based on the surgeon's preference and not on the basis of clinical stage, age, or sex. The surgical results and survival rates were assessed according to the pathologic stage of the tumors. Among patients with Stage I tumor, radical nephrectomy produced better survival rates at 5 and 10 years (P = 0.03); however, when the non-cancer deaths were excluded, the difference in survival was not statistically significant. For Stage I tumors the survival free of disease at 5 years was better for the radical nephrectomy group, but this difference was not statistically significant. No difference was noticed in the local recurrence rate between the two groups. Nephrectomy in patients with Stage IV disease did not alter survival regardless of the type of operation. 
Urinary tract malformations in identical twins. We describe 3 sets of twins with discordance for urological malformations. Zygosity was documented by HLA and blood group typing. It is suggested that evaluation of the identical twin of an affected patient should include the entire urinary tract because of the potential for different lesions. 
Piezoelectric lithotripsy for gallstones: analysis of results in patients with extended selection. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is successful in fragmenting gallstones, but less than 28 per cent of patients with gallstone disease fulfil the conventional criteria for treatment. However, no data exist to substantiate these selection criteria. In this study, the selection criteria were broadened to include patients with radiolucent stones of any size and number, and radio-opaque stones less than 3 cm in diameter. To date; 108 symptomatic patients with gallstones have received treatment. All patients received up to six outpatient sessions of ESWL (6000 shock waves per session) without sedation or analgesia. The dissolution therapy consisted of combined bile salt and terpene administration. The clearance rates were 9 per cent within 2 months, 21 per cent at 2-4 months, 38 per cent at 4-8 months, 60 per cent at 8-12 months, and 78 per cent at 12-18 months. Of patients with a successful outcome only 19 (18 per cent) would have satisfied traditional selection criteria. There have been no significant complications except in one patient who developed mild acute pancreatitis, which settled on conservative treatment, and two patients who developed acute cholecystitis. This study would suggest that the previously accepted selection criteria underestimate the number of patients suitable for gallstone ESWL and dissolution therapy. 
Late onset endophthalmitis associated with intraocular lens: a case of molecularly proved S. epidermidis aetiology. A case of severe endophthalmitis after cataract extraction followed by posterior chamber lens implantation is reported. Microbiological cultures from a tap of the patient's aqueous humour prior to lens explantation as well as from the explanted lens and aqueous and vitreous humour during operation yielded Staphylococcus epidermidis sensu stricto. Scanning electron microscopy showed massive colonisation of the lens loop by staphylococci. Clonal identity of all isolates was demonstrated by plasmid DNA analysis and sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of extra-cellular products. This is strongly suggestive of the aetiological role of S. epidermidis in this case of late onset endophthalmitis. 
Fatigue fracture of the ulna occurring in pitchers of fast-pitch softball. We have reported three cases of fatigue fracture of the ulna in male pitchers of fast-pitch softball. To elucidate the etiology of injury, we first selected three healthy male and three healthy female pitchers from a well-trained college team and analyzed their forearm movement by high-speed cinematography. This showed slight flexion of the elbow joints during wind-up motion, dorsal flexion of the hand joints upon releasing the ball, and extreme pronation of the forearms during the follow-through. We then took 8 mm CT scanning sections of the forearms. Using these images, we investigated shapes and areas of cross-sections of the ulna and its cortical and cancellous bones from the elbow to the hand joints. Our results reveal that the shapes of the sections are significantly different from circles at around the center of the ulna, and the cross-sectional areas are smaller in the middle one-third of the ulna than in other parts. These observations imply that fatigue fractures of the ulna in pitchers of fast-pitch softball must be torsionally induced, tending to occur at the middle one-third of the bone. 
Hepatic interferon-alpha gene transcripts and products in liver specimens from acute and chronic hepatitis B virus infection. In this study we have examined the localization of interferon-alpha in liver tissue from acute and chronic hepatitis B virus carriers to establish whether the defect in interferon-alpha production reported in chronic hepatitis B virus infection is at a pretranscriptional or posttranscriptional level using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical techniques. Interferon-alpha messenger RNA transcripts and the immunoreactive protein were abundant in liver tissue and in particular in hepatocytes from patients with acute hepatitis B virus infection who subsequently recovered. In contrast interferon-alpha polypeptide was present in a significantly lower number of sinusoidal cells, mononuclear cells and hepatocytes in chronic hepatitis B virus carriers. Although a high proportion of patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection had cells that expressed interferon-alpha messenger RNA transcripts, the number of such cells was significantly less than in acute hepatitis B virus infection, indicating that the defect in the hepatic interferon-alpha synthesis is at the level of gene activation. Furthermore, using double immunohistochemical staining, the number of hepatocytes containing HBcAg correlated inversely with the proportion of neighboring sinusoidal cells expressing interferon-alpha. These data support previous observations that interferon-alpha production is reduced in chronic hepatitis B virus infection and are consistent with the view that this cytokine is important in the clearance of the virus. 
Stress hormones and acid-base status of human fetuses at delivery. The relationship of plasma concentrations of arginine vasopressin (AVP), ACTH, cortisol, and PRL in the human fetus to mode of delivery and acid-base status has been investigated in 91 term pregnancies consisting of 4 groups based on mode of delivery, type of anesthesia, and use of ephedrine prophylaxis for maternal blood pressure control. Infants delivered vaginally after uncomplicated labors had higher umbilical cord plasma concentrations of AVP, ACTH, and cortisol than infants delivered without labor. Use of ephedrine, an alpha-agonist, during regional anesthesia was associated with elevated plasma AVP and ACTH concentrations compared to those in women receiving general anesthesia. At the time of delivery, 12 infants had acidemia (pH less than 7.20), as judged by pH of umbilical arterial blood. Their plasma AVP, ACTH, and cortisol levels did not differ from those of infants delivered by uncomplicated vaginal delivery, but were greater than those of infants delivered by cesarean section under general anesthesia. Moreover, in infants with acidemia, plasma concentrations of AVP and ACTH were significantly correlated, but PRL levels were unaffected by mode of delivery or acidemia. Elevated umbilical cord plasma concentrations of AVP, ACTH, and cortisol characterize term vaginal deliveries and are associated with intrauterine stress, demonstrating activation of the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and suggesting that AVP is important in ACTH release in the human fetus; however, PRL does not appear to be an important stress hormone. 
Cauda equina compression associated with breast cancer. A case study in differential diagnosis. The determination of the etiology of spinal cord compression in cancer patients is essential for appropriate therapy. Patients with metastatic disease are not immune to the development of superimposed nonmalignant disease. Although metastatic epidural compression may occur in up to 9% of breast cancer patients, care must be taken to rule out other nonmetastatic lesions causing compression. The association of concurrent breast carcinoma and a spinal neurilemoma simulating a metastatic lesion seems not to have been previously reported. A neurilemoma was observed in a 50-year-old woman. A neurilemoma suspected to be a metastatic lesion may produce the clinical features of pain, neurologic deficit, and weakness. Differentiation will be aided by roentgenograms, radionuclide bone scans, computed tomography, and possible magnetic resonance imaging. Radiologic differentiation hinges on the recognition and the slow-growing nature and noninvasive boundaries of the nonmalignant lesion. Ultimate verification is by biopsy. Treatment should consist of neurectomy, if severely symptomatic, and stabilization as indicated. 
A case of adult T cell leukemia complicated by proliferative synovitis. A 60-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital with symmetrical arthritis of the knees. During the 2 years preceding admission, she had experienced recurrent arthritis. A histological examination of her synovial tissue showed prominent villous proliferation of the synovial cells, prominent vascularity throughout and an inflammatory infiltrate composed of abnormal mononuclear cells. Three months later, she developed fever, skin eruptions, lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly. She also had hypercalcemia and there was abnormal lymphocytosis in her blood smears. She was diagnosed as having adult T cell leukemia. Parenteral chemotherapy treatment with adriamycin and cyclophosphamide gave remission of all the manifestations of disease, including arthritis. Her leukemia recurred, however, and she died 6 months after the diagnosis was made. 
Optimal dosing interval for penicillin treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis. One-hundred-forty-two children with symptomatic pharyngitis had throat cultures positive for group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (GABHA). All were treated orally with penicillin V for ten days. Patients were randomly assigned to receive daily doses of 250 mg four times daily, 500 mg twice daily, or 1000 mg once daily. They were followed four weeks for either recurrent symptomatic pharyngitis or asymptomatic repeat positive throat culture. Patients treated two or four times daily had comparable outcomes. Children given penicillin once daily were more likely to have persistent positive culture after 48 hours treatment (5 of 48 or 10.4% vs. none of 94, p = .004) and more likely to have recurrent positive cultures after end of treatment (10 of 43 or 23% vs. 8 of 94 or 8%, p = .04). The treatment regime of penicillin V 500 mg twice daily is recommended for treatment of pharyngitis due to GABHS. 
Relationship between glucose tolerance and quantitative changes of islet cells in chronic obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer. This study was conducted to clarify the relationship between indicators of preoperative glucose tolerance and quantitative changes of endocrine cells in the islet of Langerhans in patients with chronic obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer. Twenty-one specimens of pancreatic tissue obtained from patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy or total pancreatectomy for pancreatoduodenal cancer were divided into four groups according to the degree of fibrosis (Grades 0-III). Islet cells in serial sections were stained immunohistochemically to determine the proportions of B-, A-, D-, and PP-cells in the islets of Langerhans. In patients with pancreatic tissue with the most severe fibrosis, of several preoperative glucose metabolism indices measured, it was found that the ratio of integrated value of change in serum insulin to that of serum glucose (sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS) was significantly decreased. There was a significant positive correlation between proportion of B-cells, and both the ratio of change in insulin to that of glucose (delta IRI:delta BS) and sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS. On the other hand, there was a significant negative correlation between proportion of A-cells and sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS. The present data strongly suggest that it is possible to estimate the degree of fibrosis and to quantify changes of the islet cells prior to surgery in patients with obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatoduodenal cancer by calculating these glucose metabolism indices, and that sigma delta IRI:sigma delta BS is a particularly useful index. 
Central sleep apnea and arterial compression of the medulla. We report a 5-year-old with central sleep apnea associated with compression of the medulla oblongata by abnormal looping of the left vertebral artery. The magnetic resonance imaging findings raise the possibility that compression of the respiratory center by an aberrant vertebral artery might cause central sleep apnea. 
Transvaginal ultrasonography versus hysteroscopy in the diagnosis of uterine submucous myomas. Seventy-one women with symptomatic uterine myomas, hospitalized for hysterectomy, underwent preoperative transvaginal ultrasonography and hysteroscopy to compare their reliability in the diagnosis of submucous myomas. After the operation, the surgical specimen was studied carefully and the results were compared with the preoperative diagnostic findings. Transvaginal ultrasonography had a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 94%; the predictive value of an abnormal ultrasound scan was 81% and that of a normal one was 100%. The sensitivity of hysteroscopy was 100% and the specificity 96%; the predictive value of an abnormal hysteroscopic finding was 87% and that of a normal result was 100%. Mapping of uterine myomas is more precise with transvaginal ultrasonography than with hysteroscopy, but the former method cannot distinguish between a myoma and an endometrial polyp. 
Mild cognitive impairment in the elderly: predictors of dementia. We conducted full diagnostic evaluations, including a comprehensive cognitive assessment battery, of a group of 32 elderly subjects with a clinically identified mild cognitive impairment and a group of 32 age-matched and education-matched normal subjects. The mildly impaired subjects performed significantly more poorly than the controls on tests of recent memory, remote memory, language function, concept formation, and visuospatial praxis. Follow-up evaluations of cognitive status 2 years later revealed clinically detectable cognitive decline relative baseline in 23 (72%) of the mildly impaired subjects. Several of the objective psychological tests accurately discriminated at baseline between the decliners and nondecliners in the mildly impaired group. Among the 20 mildly impaired subjects with no complicating conditions, 16 exhibited cognitive deterioration between baseline and follow-up. These results suggest that most elderly subjects with mild cognitive deficits, as determined by clinical evaluation and objective psychological testing, will manifest the progressive mental deterioration characteristic of dementia and that psychometric predictors can be used to distinguish between benign and more significant underlying disorders in mildly impaired elderly subjects. 
Two-step model of leukocyte-endothelial cell interaction in inflammation: distinct roles for LECAM-1 and the leukocyte beta 2 integrins in vivo. The lectin homing receptor LECAM-1 (LAM-1, Leu8) and the beta 2 integrins, particularly Mac-1 (CD11b/CD18), participate in leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions in inflammation. LECAM-1 is rapidly shed while Mac-1 expression is dramatically increased upon neutrophil activation, suggesting functionally distinct roles for these molecules. Using intravital video microscopy, we have compared the effect of antibodies against LECAM-1 and CD18 on leukocyte interactions with rabbit mesenteric venules. Anti-LECAM-1 monoclonal antibody and its Fab fragments inhibited initial reversible leukocyte rolling along the vascular wall. Anti-CD18 monoclonal antibody had no effect on rolling but prevented subsequent firm attachment of leukocytes to venular endothelium. These results support a two-step model of leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions: reversible rolling mediated in part by LECAM-1 facilitates leukocyte recruitment by the local microenvironment and precedes activation-dependent firm attachment involving beta 2 integrins. 
The spleen in the spleen syndrome: the association of splenoma with hematopoietic and neoplastic disease--compendium of cases since 1864. Splenomas have been described as benign congenital growths. We report six cases of splenomas, all in males. Three had hairy cell leukemia, one had Hodgkin's disease, and one had myeloid metaplasia. Average splenic weight was 1629 gm, and all had multiple splenomas (average diameter 1.89 cm). Splenomas bulged above the cut splenic surface, were pseudoencapsulated, and showed involvement of the underlying disease. A re-evaluation of 105 prior cases are adult (86%; age: 49), with 56% associated with neoplastic disease or hematologic abnormalities. Average spleen weight was 626 gm, and 22% contained multiple splenomas. We conclude that splenomas are most likely an acquired proliferative process strongly associated with neoplastic disease or hematologic abnormalities. Splenomas can also be congenital growths (hamartoma; 26% of the series), which are of little importance. 
The use of an intraluminal shunt for bypass grafts of the cavernous internal carotid artery. Technical note. The authors describe an indwelling intraluminal shunt for use during graft bypass procedures of the cavernous internal carotid artery. The clinical use of this shunt in a patient with meningioma invading the right cavernous sinus is described. This shunt has also been found applicable during carotid endarterectomy, and should prove to be a useful addition to the neurosurgical armamentarium for skull-base surgery. 
Depressed aerobic enzyme activity of skeletal muscle in severe chronic heart failure. A reduction in exercise capacity is a common feature of congestive heart failure. We hypothesized that depressed aerobic enzyme activity of skeletal muscle may contribute to this exercise intolerance. Biopsy samples of vastus lateralis muscle were obtained from seven patients with severe chronic heart failure and analyzed for aerobic enzyme activity. Compared with normal laboratory controls, the patients with heart failure had a moderate reduction (greater than 60%) in skeletal muscle citrate synthase and a marked reduction (greater than 90%) in succinate dehydrogenase and cytochrome oxidase (all p less than 0.001). Depression of aerobic enzyme activity of skeletal muscle is associated with severe chronic heart failure and is likely one of the contributory factors for impaired exercise capacity seen in the advanced stages of this condition. 
A case of opisthorchiasis diagnosed by cholangiography and bile examination. A case of symptomatic opisthorchiasis in a 66-year-old Laotian immigrant is presented. The diagnosis was made by transhepatic cholangiography and by finding the trematode eggs in bile fluid. The characteristic cholangiographic changes of opisthorchiasis are described, including the intraluminal filling defects, the diffuse irregular dilation of the intrahepatic bile ducts, and the abrupt endings of the terminal branches. The importance of microscopic examination of the bile is stressed especially when stool examination is negative. 
Hemodynamic and clinical benefits with intravenous milrinone in severe chronic heart failure: results of a multicenter study in the United States. The response of patients with chronic severe heart failure to extended infusions (greater than or equal to 48 hours) of milrinone was evaluated in a multicenter, baseline-controlled, phase III efficacy and safety trial in 189 patients in the United States. Milrinone was given as loading and maintenance infusions according to one of four dose regimens. An effective response was defined as greater than or equal to 20% increases in cardiac index or decreases in pulmonary wedge pressure. All loading doses (range, 37.5 to 75 micrograms/kg/10 min) were effective short term, and maximum response occurred at 15 minutes. For the three effective regimens, cardiac index increased initially (at 15 minutes) by 24% to 42%, and pulmonary wedge pressure decreased by 24% to 33%. Systemic vascular resistance was reduced by 15% to 31%. The maximal acute response was effective in 99% of individual patients. During maintenance therapy, effective responses were seen at infusion doses of 0.375, 0.50, and 0.75 micrograms/kg/min, whereas an infusion of 0.25 micrograms/kg/min was ineffective. During 2 days of maintenance therapy, cardiac index remained augmented by 34% to 39% for the low and intermediate doses and by 44% to 73% for the high-dose infusion regimen. Pulmonary wedge pressure decreased an average of 18% on day 1 and 30% on day 2. Systemic vascular resistance was reduced by 20% to 25%, and stroke work index was augmented by 21% to 58%. Symptomatic improvement was common during intravenous milrinone therapy for symptoms of dyspnea (61% response), orthopnea (63%), edema (62%), and fatigue (40%). Improvement occurred more frequently in those with worse baseline functional indexes and in those with greater hemodynamic responses to therapy. Safety and tolerance were exceptionally good for these patients with advanced heart failure. 
Ubiquitin-immunoreactive intraneuronal inclusions in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Morphology, distribution, and specificity. Antibodies to ubiquitin have been used to search for evidence of abnormal protein degradation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis--motor neuron disease (ALS). Anterior horn cell ubiquitin-immunoreactive (IR) inclusions were present in all of 31 ALS cases but in none of 23 neurologically normal and in only 1 of 22 neurologically abnormal controls. These inclusions, which were present in familial and sporadic ALS cases, and in cases with dementia, took the form of dense rounded or irregular ubiquitin-IR cytoplasmic inclusions (dense bodies), or loosely arranged bundles ('skeins') of filamentous-appearing material. The presence of ubiquitin-IR inclusions corresponded to the pattern of selective neuronal vulnerability in ALS, although inclusions in pyramidal neurons of the motor cortex were infrequent and were noted in only a minority of cases. Ubiquitin-IR inclusions were more prevalent than Bunina bodies. The latter were present in 67% of ALS cases but were seldom labelled by antibodies to ubiquitin. Intraneuronal inclusions resembling Lewy bodies were present in 23% of ALS cases and were often identified by antibodies to ubiquitin. We conclude that the presence of ubiquitin-IR inclusions in lower motor neurons represents a characteristic pathological feature of ALS in its various clinical forms. Ubiquitin-IR inclusions in ALS differ from ubiquitinated inclusions in other neuronal degenerations in that they are not readily identified by antibodies to cytoskeletal proteins. They may represent accumulations of altered or abnormal neuronal proteins resistant to degradation via the ubiquitin proteolytic pathway. 
Cerebral infarction verified by cranial computed tomography and prognosis for survival following transient ischemic attack. Of 564 consecutive patients with transient ischemic attack, 350 (62%) had cranial computed tomography performed. Except for date of admission and smoking history, there were few differences between the patients evaluated with computed tomography and the 214 who were not. Cerebral infarcts were found in 59 (17%) of the 350 tomographic evaluations. Previous clinically diagnosed stroke, older age, and male sex were all significantly associated with the occurrence of tomographically verified infarcts (p less than 0.05). After controlling for stroke history and other important covariates, patients with tomographically verified infarcts had significantly shorter survival times than did patients without evidence of infarction on computed tomography (p = 0.035). Thus, cranial computed tomography findings appear to have important prognostic value for estimating survival following transient ischemic attack. 
Coexpression of adult T-cell leukemia-derived factor, a human thioredoxin homologue, and human papillomavirus DNA in neoplastic cervical squamous epithelium. Adult T-cell leukemia-derived factor (ADF) is an autocrine interleukin-2 receptor-inducing factor produced by human T-lymphotropic virus-1 (HTLV-1)-transformed lymphocytes, which has a high structural homology with an endogenous dithiol reducing coenzyme, thioredoxin. Its localization was investigated immunohistochemically in the cervix, using normal tissue (27 samples) and squamous neoplastic tissue (three condylomas, 42 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN] samples, 34 invasive squamous cell carcinoma samples). The expression of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA was also studied in serial sections of the same subjects. Normal squamous cells and glandular cells of the cervix were negative for ADF. However, intracytoplasmic and/or intranuclear ADF-positive cells were usually found in the intermediate and superficial layers of the neoplastic squamous epithelium of condylomas (three of three cases) and CIN (35/42 cases). HPV DNA was detected in all condylomas and in 27 of 42 CIN specimens. HPV DNA-positive cells were usually localized in the intermediate and superficial layers of the neoplastic squamous epithelium. These HPV DNA-positive cells were also positive for ADF. Invasive squamous cell carcinoma was also positive for ADF (24/34 cases) and HPV DNA (11/34 cases). The coexpression of HPV DNA and ADF was observed in all HPV DNA-positive cases. Coexistence of HPV DNA and ADF immunopositivity in neoplastic squamous cells of the cervix suggests that ADF expression closely reflects the intracellular event on HPV DNA replication. 
Risk stratification for arrhythmic events in postinfarction patients based on heart rate variability, ambulatory electrocardiographic variables and the signal-averaged electrocardiogram. The value of heart rate variability, ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) variables and the signal-averaged ECG in the prediction of arrhythmic events (sudden death or life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias) was assessed before hospital discharge in 416 consecutive survivors of acute myocardial infarction. During the follow-up period (range 1 to 1,112 days), there were 24 arrhythmic events and 47 deaths. The initial relation between several prognostic factors and arrhythmic events was explored with use of the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates of survival function. Impaired heart rate variability less than 20 ms (p less than 0.0000), late potentials (p less than 0.0000), ventricular ectopic beat frequency (p less than 0.0000), repetitive ventricular forms (p less than 0.0000), left ventricular ejection fraction less than 40% (p less than 0.02) and Killip class (p less than 0.02) were identified as significant univariate predictors of arrhythmic events. When these variables were analyzed by using a stepwise Cox regression model, only impaired heart rate variability, followed by late potentials and repetitive ventricular forms remained independent predictors of arrhythmic events. The combination of impaired heart rate variability and late potentials had a sensitivity of 58%, a positive predictive accuracy of 33% and a relative risk of 18.5 for arrhythmic events and was superior to other combinations including those incorporating left ventricular function, exercise ECG, ventricular ectopic beat frequency and repetitive ventricular forms. These results suggest that a simple method of assessment based on heart rate variability and the signal-averaged ECG can select a small subgroup of survivors of myocardial infarction at high risk of future life-threatening arrhythmias and sudden death. 
Differing characteristics of human papillomavirus RNA-positive and RNA-negative anal carcinomas. Anal carcinomas were tested for the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) RNA transcripts by in situ hybridization using 125I-labeled RNA probes. The HPV transcripts were detected in 73.2% of 41 nonglandular anal carcinomas but in none of six anal or 11 rectal adenocarcinomas. In anal nonglandular carcinomas, no difference in the percentage of tumors that were HPV RNA positive was observed between tumors classed as basaloid carcinomas or squamous cell carcinomas. Patients with HPV RNA-negative tumors were significantly older (9.2 years) than those with HPV RNA-positive tumors. Anal intraepithelial neoplasia Grade 3 in the surrounding epithelium was seen in 14 of 25 assessable HPV RNA-positive tumors and in none of nine assessable HPV RNA-negative tumors. Anal tumors may include two separate clinical and biologic groups distinguished by their dependence, or lack of dependence, on HPV RNA expression for maintenance of the neoplastic state. 
High-speed memory scanning in Parkinson's disease: adverse effects of levodopa. High-speed memory scanning as assessed by the Sternberg paradigm was studied in 12 nondemented patients with fluctuating Parkinson's disease and 13 age-matched healthy controls. Patients were first assessed before taking their morning dose of levodopa ("off") and again after that dose had produced full clinical effect ("on") after that dose had produced full clinical effect ("on"). Although motor components of the measured choice reaction time were slower in patients when off than in control subjects, memory scanning speed was not different. After levodopa (on), patients' motor time normalized, but cognitive processing speed became significantly slower when compared with previous performance in the off condition and with controls. Contrary to previous concepts of bradyphrenia in patients with Parkinson's disease, these results indicate that dopaminergic stimulation can reduce cognitive processing speed. 
A rare cause of parastomal hernia: stomach herniation. Our case of a parastomal hernia is rare because the stomach became incarcerated in the hernial sac. The diagnosis of parastomal hernia is not a difficult one, but one must be aware of the possible complications of the colostomy and the rare occurrence of the parastomal hernia containing the stomach. 
Thymosin treatment of chronic hepatitis B: a placebo-controlled pilot trial Chronic hepatitis B is a severe and frequently progressive disease. We assessed the safety and efficacy of thymosin fraction 5 and thymosin-alpha 1 in a prospective, placebo-controlled trial in 12 patients with chronic hepatitis B. All patients had histological and biochemical evidence of active liver disease for at least 6 mo before treatment and were positive for serum hepatitis B virus DNA and HBsAg. Seven patients received thymosin fraction 5 or thymosin-alpha 1 and five patients received placebo twice weekly for 6 mo. By the conclusion of the study (1 yr), serum aminotransferase levels had improved significantly in thymosin-treated patients, but not in the placebo group. Six (86%) of the thymosin treated patients and one (20%) patient given placebo cleared hepatitis B virus DNA from serum (p less than 0.04, Fisher's exact test). After treatment, replicative forms of hepatitis B virus DNA were present in the liver specimens of four of five placebo-treated patients but in only one of seven thymosin-treated patients (p less than 0.04, Fisher's exact test). Response to thymosin therapy was associated with significant improvements in peripheral blood lymphocyte and CD3 and CD4 counts and in in vitro production of interferon-gamma over initial values. No significant side effects were observed in patients given thymosin or in placebo-treated patients. Clinical, biochemical and serological improvement in patients responding to thymosin were sustained during 26 +/- 3 mo of follow-up. The results of this pilot trial suggest that thymosin therapy promotes disease remission and cessation of hepatitis B virus replication in patients with chronic viral infection. 
Anterior cruciate ligament allograft transplantation in dogs. The biomechanical and clinical performance of bone-ligament-bone anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) allografts was studied in eight dogs. Allografts were collected from skeletally mature, healthy dogs using aseptic technique, and stored at -70 degrees for three to five weeks before implantation. The allografts were size-matched to the recipient dogs using ACL length and then rigidly fixed in position with interference screws and Kirschner wires. Three dogs regained a normal gait, and their grafts sustained breaking loads that were 25%, 41%, and 59% of controls. Partial or complete graft failure occurred in the other five dogs at some point in the study. Four had intraligamentous rupture and one had an avulsion fracture of the femoral attachment site. Joint-fluid cytology was normal in all eight dogs. Histologic examination showed persistent lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate. Eventually the allograft cores were incorporated in the host bed. Hyperplasia and fibrosis of the synovial membrane were diffuse and persisted as focal accumulations of mononuclear inflammatory cells. 
Influence of allopurinol on cardiac complications in open heart operations. During cardiac operations, the heart is subjected to total ischemia and reperfusion, causing serious operative and postoperative complications such as arrhythmias, heart failure, and infarctions that may be partly due to free radical generation. Thus, allopurinol was tested to see if it could reduce cardiac complications during open heart operations. Ninety patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting were studied prospectively. Fortyfive patients were treated with allopurinol and 45 patients acted as controls. Treatment requiring arrhythmias in the allopurinol group was 6.6% compared with 33.3% in the control group (p less than 0.01). The percentage of patients requiring inotropes was significantly lower in the allopurinol group than in the control group (4.4% versus 26.6%; p less than 0.01). Perioperative myocardial infarction did not occur in the allopurinol group but was seen in 8 patients (17.7%) in the control group. Intraaortic balloon pumping was used in 5 control patients (11.1%) but not in the allopurinol group. This study shows that allopurinol decreases significantly the incidence of cardiac complications in open heart operations. 
Osmotic diarrhea induced by sugar-free theophylline solution in critically ill patients. It is widely accepted that early enteral nutrition is beneficial to critically ill patients. Diarrhea is a common problem in this setting and is often erroneously ascribed to enteral feedings. More often medications cause the diarrhea. Multiple cases of severe diarrhea associated with the use of a sugar-free theophylline solution (SFTS) were discovered by a nutrition support team. SFTS may induce an osmotic diarrhea because it contains sorbitol. A 55-year-old man admitted for a dissecting aneurysm was started on isotonic formula enteral feedings and within a day of starting SFTS developed severe diarrhea. The sorbitol-induced osmotic diarrhea persisted for 36 of his 83 days of hospitalization with direct cost for the evaluation of this diarrhea being $4,250. His prolonged hospitalization cost $166,200. A retrospective review of 20 consecutive patients receiving SFTS revealed that 15 patients had diarrhea for 2 or more consecutive days compared with 20 patients receiving iv aminophylline, of whom only two patients had diarrhea. Furthermore, SFTS was administered to healthy volunteers and a prominent breath hydrogen response was noted. The polyalcohol sorbitol is used as a sweetner in "sugar-free" products and not quantified on labeling because it is considered an inactive ingredient. Nutritionists should be aware that medicinal solutions can contain enough sorbitol to create a laxative effect which is an easily reversible cause of diarrhea in enterally fed patients. 
Differentiation of a human eosinophilic leukemia cell line (EoL-1) by a human T-cell leukemia cell line (HIL-3)-derived factor. Differentiation of a human eosinophilic leukemia cell line, EoL-1, induced by the culture supernatant of a human ATL cell line, HIL-3 (HIL-3 sup) was compared with differentiation induced by defined cytokines. HIL-3 sup induced EoL-1 cells to express eosinophilic granules and segmented nuclei after 6 to 9 days of incubation. HIL-3 sup also induced the expression of Fc epsilon receptor II (Fc epsilon RII/CD23) and an eosinophil differentiation antigen EO-1 mainly on eosinophilic granule (+) cells. Furthermore, HIL-3 sup induced EoL-1 cells to respond to an eosinophil chemotactic factor, platelet activating factor. HIL-3 cells express messenger RNA (mRNA) of interleukin-5 (IL-5), macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), and IL-3 but not granulocyte CSF (G-CSF). Granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were detected in the HIL-3 sup. Recombinant IL-2 (rIL-2), rIL-3, rIL-4, rIL-5, rM-CSF, and rGM-CSF did not induce eosinophilic granules. rG-CSF induced a few eosinophilic granule (+) cells, and TNF-alpha, which did not induce eosinophilic granules by itself, enhanced the ability of G-CSF to induce them. However, G-CSF and TNF-alpha did not induce the expression of Fc epsilon RII and EO-1 antigen. Moreover, anti-G-CSF, anti-TNF-alpha, anti-GM-CSF, anti-IL-3, and anti-IL-5 antibodies did not suppress the effect of HIL-3 sup on the differentiation of EoL-1 cells. All the data suggest that HIL-3 sup contains an unidentified factor that induces differentiation of EoL-1 cells, and that EoL-1 cells and HIL-3 sup provide an important model for the examination of differentiation mechanisms and functions of eosinophils. 
Cloning of a leucine-zipper protein recognized by the sera of patients with antibody-associated paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. Antibody-associated paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (the Yo syndrome) is an uncommon disorder in which an immune response is specifically directed against tumor tissue and the cerebellum. Screening of a lambda expression library has resulted in the isolation of cDNA clones that encode the major antigen recognized by serum from these patients. The fusion protein produced by the cDNA clones provides the basis of a simple diagnostic assay for this neurological syndrome. The occurrence of leucine-zipper and zinc-finger motifs in the predicted open reading frame suggests that this protein plays a role in the regulation of gene expression. 
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy presenting as multiple intracranial lesions on magnetic resonance imaging. Case report. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is recognized as an important cause of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage in the elderly normotensive patient. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging characteristics of this disease entity are rarely mentioned in the literature. The MR imaging findings of an elderly normotensive patient presenting with an acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage secondary to amyloid angiopathy are reported and a brief review of amyloidosis is presented. 
Singular neurectomy update. II. Review of 102 cases. During the past 18 years, 102 singular neurectomies (SN) were performed on 95 patients with chronic cupulolithiasis of the posterior canal sense organ. Bilateral sequential singular neurectomies were performed in 7 patients and unilateral singular neurectomies in 88 patients. Ninety-nine (97%) of the 102 singular neurectomies completely eliminated the positional nystagmus and vertigo produced by the involved (undermost) ear in the Hallpike maneuver. Following three singular neurectomies (3%), there was improvement but incomplete relief from the positional nystagmus. A sensorineural hearing loss caused by the singular neurectomies occurred in four patients (4%). A thorough knowledge of the surgical and histologic anatomy of the round window niche and singular canal, together with the use of local anesthesia to allow monitoring of a vestibular response to singular neurectomy are essential for effectiveness and safety. 
Elevated serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha after bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage are often followed by the development of fever and other influenza-like symptoms. We report the onset of these symptoms in a healthy volunteer following bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage; the symptoms were temporally associated with the dramatic elevation of serum levels of tumor necrosis factor. Our observations suggest that tumor necrosis factor may be involved in mediating fever and other influenza-like symptoms occurring after bronchoscopy. 
Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis. Analysis of 63 cases. We retrospectively analyzed 63 observations collected in nine French departments of dermatology of an acute pustular dermatosis, recently named in the French literature acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). Even though 11 of these cases occurred in patients with a history of psoriasis, AGEP appeared distinct from pustular psoriasis based on several slight pathologic differences, drug induction in most cases, and a more acute course of fever and pustulosis, with rapid spontaneous healing. We, therefore, suggest that AGEP is a reaction pattern, perhaps favored by a "psoriatic background." The most frequent causes of AGEP seem to be drug reactions, acute infections with enteroviruses, and hypersensitivity to mercury. With 55 (87%) of 63 cases attributed to drugs in this series, AGEP should be added to the list of cutaneous adverse drug reactions. Among drug-induced skin eruptions, AGEP is remarkable by its short time to onset after the administration of the suspected drug (less than 24 hours in half of our cases) and the great predominance (80%) of antibiotics as causative agents. It is suggested that some cases previously reported as "drug-induced pustular psoriasis" were in fact AGEP. 
Nonsense mutations affect C1 inhibitor messenger RNA levels in patients with type I hereditary angioneurotic edema. Members of two unrelated families with type I hereditary angioneurotic edema (HANE) were found to have elevated levels of C1 inhibitor (C1INH) mRNA. DNA sequence analysis of PCR-amplified monocyte C1INH mRNA revealed normal and mutant transcripts, as expected in this disorder that occurs in heterozygous individuals. Single base mutations near the 3' end of the coding sequence were identified in affected members of each family. One mutation consisted of insertion of an adenosine at position 1304 which created a premature termination codon (TAA), whereas the second consisted of deletion of the thymidine at position 1298 which created a premature termination codon (TGA) 23 nucleotides downstream. These mutations are approximately 250 nucleotides upstream of the natural termination codon. Nuclear run-off experiments in one kindred revealed no difference in transcription rates of the C1INH gene between the patients and normals. C1INH mRNA half-life experiments were not technically feasible because of the prolonged half-life of the normal transcript. Dideoxynucleotide primer extension experiments allowed the differentiation of the normal and mutant transcripts. These studies showed that the mutant transcript was not decreased relative to the normal, and this therefore was at least partially responsible for the C1INH mRNA elevation. This elevation may be due to the decreased catabolism of the mutant transcript. 
Neoadjuvant cisplatin plus vinblastine chemotherapy in locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Twenty-eight patients with locally advanced, unresectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) received neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin (120 mg/m2 on days 1 and 29) and vinblastine (4 mg/m2 weekly for 6 weeks). At the completion of induction chemotherapy, all patients were assessed for resectability. Those patients judged to be resectable underwent thoracotomy. All remaining patients received thoracic radiation therapy (5500 cGy) followed by additional chemotherapy in those patients responding to neoadjuvant treatment. There were 15 partial responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy for an overall response rate of 54% (95% confidence interval, 36% to 71%). Only five partially responding patients (18%) were thought to have had sufficient tumor regression to allow for a potentially curative resection. However, a complete resection was done in only two patients. Overall median survival was 12 months (range, 4 to 72 months) with 1-year, 2-year, and 3-year survival rates of 54%, 39%, and 11%, respectively. The primary toxicity associated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy was moderate to severe (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Grade 3 or 4) nausea and emesis in 25% of patients. Hematologic toxicity was relatively modest; only one patient had Grade 4 leukopenia (less than 1000/microliter). Fever and neutropenia were uncommon, and there were no documented septic episodes or treatment-related deaths. Compared with historic controls treated with radiation therapy alone, cisplatin-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy appeared to improve the median and long-term survival of Stage III NSCLC patients modestly. 
Twenty-seven nonoverlapping zinc finger cDNAs from human T cells map to nine different chromosomes with apparent clustering. cDNA clones encoding zinc finger structures were isolated by screening Molt4 and Jurkat cDNA libraries with zinc finger consensus sequences. Candidate clones were partially sequenced to verify the presence of zinc finger-encoding regions; nonoverlapping cDNA clones were chosen on the basis of sequences and genomic hybridization pattern. Zinc finger structure-encoding clones, which were designated by the term "Kox" and a number from 1 to 32 and which were apparently unique (i.e., distinct from each other and distinct from those isolated by other laboratories), were chosen for mapping in the human genome. DNAs from rodent-human somatic cell hybrids retaining defined complements of human chromosomes were analyzed for the presence of each of the Kox genes. Correlation between the presence of specific human chromosome regions and specific Kox genes established the chromosomal locations. Multiple Kox loci were mapped to 7q (Kox 18 and 25 and a locus detected by both Kox 8 cDNA and Kox 27 cDNA), 8q24 5' to the myc locus (Kox 9 and 32), 10cen----q24 (Kox 2, 15, 19, 21, 30, and 31), 12q13-qter (Kox 1 and 20), 17p13 (Kox 11 and 26), and 19q (Kox 5, 6, 10, 22, 24, and 28). Single Kox loci were mapped to 7p22 (Kox 3), 18q12 (Kox 17), 19p (Kox 13), 22q11 between IG lambda and BCR-1 (locus detected by both Kox 8 cDNA and Kox 27 cDNA), and Xp (Kox 14). Several of the Kox loci map to regions in which other zinc finger structure-encoding loci have already been localized, indicating possible zinc finger gene clusters. In addition, Kox genes at 8q24, 17p13, and 22q11--and perhaps other Kox genes--are located near recurrent chromosomal translocation breakpoints. Others, such as those on 7p and 7q, may be near regions specifically active in T cells. 
Aberrant central venous catheter complicating radical neck dissection. Abnormal migration of central venous catheters is especially common in the case of long lines inserted via the antecubital fossa. A case is described of internal jugular vein migration of a central venous catheter complicating an ipsilateral radical neck dissection. 
Delayed decline in plasma atrial natriuretic peptide levels after an abrupt reduction in atrial pressures: observation in patients with dual-chamber pacing. The effect of an abrupt reduction in atrial pressures on atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) secretion was studied in four patients with complete atrioventricular block with a dual-chamber pacemaker when the pacing mode was changed from the VVI to the DVI mode at an equal rate of 70/min. Simultaneous continuous hemodynamic monitoring was performed using a balloon-tipped thermodilution catheter. With DVI pacing, there was an immediate decrease of right atrial pressure from 4.5 +/- 0.9 to 1.8 +/- 1.1 mm Hg, and a reduction of pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 7 +/- 0.8 to 4.5 +/- 0.9 mm Hg, together with a rise in cardiac output from 3.1 +/- 0.2 to 3.7 +/- 0.2 L/min. However, despite a constant hemodynamic status after dual-chamber pacing, the arterial ANP level steadily decreased from 151 +/- 26 pg/ml to a steady low level of 78 +/- 15 pg/ml after 20 minutes of dual-chamber pacing (percentage reduction- 48 +/- 8%, p less than 0.05). This persisted until the end of the study at 60 minutes. The time-dependent decay in ANP secretion after an abrupt and constant change in hemodynamic status should be considered when interpreting ANP levels. 
Comparison of the effects of streptokinase and tissue plasminogen activator on regional wall motion after first myocardial infarction: analysis by the centerline method with correction for area at risk. In a trial of streptokinase versus recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) for a first myocardial infarction, 270 patients were randomized. Regional left ventricular function was assessed in 214 patients at 3 weeks. The infarct-related artery was the left anterior descending artery in 78 patients, the right coronary artery in 122 and a dominant left circumflex artery in 14. Analysis was by the centerline method with a novel correction for the area of myocardium at risk, whereby the search region was determined by the anatomic distribution of the infarct-related artery. Infarct-artery patency at 3 weeks was 73% in the streptokinase group and 71% in the rt-PA group. Global left ventricular function did not differ between the two groups. Mean chord motion (+/- SD) in the most hypokinetic half of the defined search region was similar in the streptokinase and rt-PA groups (-2.4 +/- 1.5 versus -2.3 +/- 1.3, p = 0.63). There were no differences in hyperkinesia of the noninfarct zone. Compared with conventional centerline analysis, regional wall motion in the defined area at risk was significantly more abnormal. The two methods correlated strongly, however (r = 0.99, p less than 0.0001), and both methods produced similar overall results. Patients with a patent infarct-related artery and those with an occluded artery at the time of catheterization had similar levels of global function (ejection fraction 58 +/- 12% versus 57 +/- 12%, p = 0.58). 
Modified Rambo meatoplasty in translabyrinthine tumor removal. Spinal fluid otorrhea and otorhinorrhea are morbid complications that occur in up to 18% of patients after removal of translabyrinthine tumor. Both of these problems can be significantly reduced if, during the initial surgery, the posterior canal wall is taken down and the tympanic membrane and external auditory canal skin are removed for better exposure of the eustachian tube orifice. The external auditory meatus can then be sealed by a previously described modification of the Rambo procedure. This additional procedure adds about 20 minutes to the surgery and presents a small risk of retained squamous epithelium. Fifty consecutive patients were divided into two equal groups and studied retrospectively. In group I, the patients underwent a modified Rambo meatoplasty at the time of the removal of their translabyrinthine tumor, whereas patients in group II had the tympanic orifice of their eustachian tube obstructed through the facial recess. Review of the postoperative course of these fifty patients indicated that the addition of the modified Rambo meatoplasty was justified by the overall reduction in morbidity and expense it provided. 
Cardiac toxicity 4 to 20 years after completing anthracycline therapy. OBJECTIVE.--To assess the cardiac status of long-term survivors of pediatric malignancies who received chemotherapy, including anthracyclines. DESIGN AND METHOD.-Patients were evaluated by echocardiogram from 4 to 20 years (median, 7 years) after completion of anthracyclines, with prospective and retrospective analysis. PATIENTS.--The consecutive sample of 201 patients had received a total anthracycline dose of 200 to 1275 mg/m2 (median, 450 mg/m2), and 51 patients had mediastinal radiotherapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.--The overall incidence and severity of abnormal systolic cardiac function were determined for the entire cohort. Risk factors of total anthracycline dose, mediastinal radiotherapy, age during treatment, and length of follow-up were examined. RESULTS.--Twenty-three percent (47/201) of the cohort had abnormal cardiac function on noninvasive testing at long-term follow-up. Correlation between total cumulative dose, length of follow-up, and mediastinal irradiation with incidence of abnormalities was significant. Fifty-six patients were followed up for 10 years or more (median, 12 years), with a median anthracycline dose of 495 mg/m2. Thirty-eight percent (21/56) of these patients, compared with 18% (26/145) of patients evaluated after less than 10 years, had abnormal findings. Sixty-three percent of patients followed up for 10 years or more after receiving 500 mg/m2 or more of anthracyclines had abnormal findings. Nine of 201 patients had late symptoms, including cardiac failure and dysrhythmia, and three patients died suddenly. Microscopic examination of the myocardium on biopsy and autopsy revealed fibrosis. CONCLUSION.--The 23% incidence of late cardiac abnormalities warrants continued evaluation of patients after anthracyclines to guide patient care and the design of future chemotherapeutic protocols. 
Usefulness of ST-segment changes in greater than or equal to 2 leads on the emergency room electrocardiogram in either unstable angina pectoris or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction in predicting outcome. To determine the reliability of the admission electrocardiogram in predicting outcome in patients hospitalized for chest pain at rest, 90 patients were randomized into a trial of aspirin versus heparin in unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, and prospectively followed for 3 months. The emergency room admission electrocardiogram was analyzed for ST-segment deviation greater than or equal to 1 mm/lead and T-wave changes. Unfavorable outcomes were recurrent ischemic pain, myocardial infarction and coronary revascularization with angioplasty or surgery. In patients who underwent coronary arteriography, a myocardium in jeopardy score ranging from 0 to 10 was assigned, based on the number of vessels with a diameter stenosis greater than or equal to 70% and the location of the stenoses. Considering all 90 patients, an admission electrocardiogram with ST-segment deviation in greater than or equal to 2 leads had a positive predictive value for adverse clinical events of 79% and a negative predictive value of 64%. In the subset of patients without left ventricular hypertrophy and whose admission electrocardiograms were recorded during chest pain (62 of 90), the positive predictive value of ST deviation in greater than or equal to 2 leads improved to 89% and the negative value to 72%. Of the 62 patients, 53 underwent coronary arteriography. There was a positive linear correlation between the total number of leads with ST-segment deviation and the myocardium in jeopardy score (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001). 
Expression of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) isoforms in neuroblastoma. A comparative study on the expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in human neuroblastoma cell lines and tissues was undertaken. NCAMs are a family of closely related cell surface glycoproteins involved in cell-cell interactions. Using antibodies that recognise distinct epitopes on NCAM, their presence was shown in neuroblastoma, but these studies do not yield any information on the specific NCAM isoforms associated with the tumour. Western and Northern blot analyses were therefore carried out to characterise the NCAM isoforms in this neuroectodermal tumour. Western blot studies using the monoclonal antibody ERIC-1 showed that all human neuroblastoma cell lines tested expressed the 140 and 120 kilodalton isoforms of NCAM in their desialo state. Some of the cell lines also expressed NCAM-180. The data are corroborated by Northern blotting where a transcript of 7.4 kilobase pairs was identified only in lines expressing NCAM-180; the 6.7 and 5.4 kilobase pair transcripts coding for 140 and 120 kilodalton isoforms, respectively, were present in all the cell lines tested. The NCAM isoforms identified in neuroblastoma were also different from those found in adult and fetal brain tissue, suggesting that aberrations are expressed in the molecule during tumorigenesis. 
Adult polycystic disease of the liver. Adult polycystic liver disease (APLD) is a rare disorder of liver parenchyma occasionally requiring surgical treatment. Its association with adult polycystic kidney disease has meant that as renal dialysis has become widely available there is an increased number of patients surviving with cystic liver changes. Although usually asymptomatic, patients with APLD may present with abdominal pain or swelling. Liver function is not usually compromised and computed tomography or abdominal ultrasonography are the most useful investigations. The complications of cyst rupture, infection, cholangiocarcinoma and compression of surrounding structures are discussed. Surgical treatment remains controversial, and the options of cyst puncture, fenestration with or without hepatic resection, and liver transplantation are reviewed. 
Quantitative nailfold capillary microscopy in cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus and localized and systemic scleroderma. Quantitative television microscopy of nailfold capillaries of the fingers was performed in 12 patients with cutaneous lupus erythematosus (six with discoid type and six with disseminated type), in six patients with localized scleroderma (two with circumscribed type, two with linear types, and two with atrophic type), in 10 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, and in eight patients with systemic scleroderma. The following features were analyzed and compared with a control group (n = 15) of similar age: venous plexus visibility; density of capillaries; avascular fields; hemorrhages; giant capillaries; diameters of the transitional segment, the arterial, and the venous limbs; loop width; and flow stop caused by local cooling test. The patient groups with cutaneous lesions only showed no essential differences as compared with the controls. Patients with systemic scleroderma differed in almost every finding from the controls and from patients with localized scleroderma. Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus exhibited significant differences in several findings as compared with the controls and the cutaneous lupus erythematosus group, but there was overlap. 
The new 99mTc myocardial perfusion imaging agents: 99mTc-sestamibi and 99mTc-teboroxime. The two new 99m (99mTc) labeled myocardial perfusion agents, 99mTc-Sestamibi and 99mTc-Teboroxime, are now available for routine clinical application. Both agents allow assessment of ejection fraction by the first-pass technique at rest or during exercise, thus providing additional information not available with thallium-201. 99mTc-Sestamibi has long myocardial residence time, as well as adequate myocardial extraction, providing images of higher count density and superior quality compared with thallium-201. 99mTc-Teboroxime has excellent myocardial uptake characteristics but is cleared very rapidly from the myocardium. Both tracers have shown results similar to those obtained with thallium-201 for detection of coronary artery disease and the assessment of defect reversibility. 99mTc-Sestamibi studies using the rest/stress imaging sequence can be accomplished in approximately 5 hours; studies using dual-isotope imaging (rest thallium-201 and stress 99mTc-Sestamibi injection) can be completed in 1 to 2 hours. Gated stress images can be performed with 99mTc-Sestamibi, providing simultaneous information of myocardial perfusion at stress and resting wall motion or thickening and allowing rapid differentiation of ischemic from infarcted tissue. Because of its slow myocardial clearance and absence of redistribution, 99mTc-Sestamibi allows uncoupling of the time of injection from the time of imaging and thus can be valuable in the evaluation of acute myocardial infarction and outcome of thrombolytic therapy. With 99mTc-Teboroxime, rapid serial studies are feasible. Pharmacologic stress and rest studies with 99mTc-Teboroxime single photon emission computed tomography potentially can be completed in under 30 minutes. 
Basophil-bound and serum immunoglobulin E directed against Helicobacter pylori in patients with chronic gastritis. The immunoglobulin (Ig) E immune response in patients with Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis has been evaluated. Of 26 patients with H. pylori infection, 22 (84%) tested positive for basophil-bound specific IgE (determined by the histamine release test) and 18 (69%) for serum specific IgE (determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). In contrast, only 1 of 17 persons in whom the bacterium was not detected presented cell-bound and serum specific IgE. In the 4 histamine release test--positive but enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay--negative patients, removal of antibody from the basophil surface by acid elution showed that histamine release occurred through an IgE-dependent mechanism. When normal basophils, passively sensitized with serum from IgE-positive patients, were exposed to the H. pylori antigen, a significant release was observed, confirming the class specificity of the response. Inhibition experiments with bacteria other than H. pylori showed that the IgE antibody was specifically directed against this organism. The percentage of antigen-induced histamine release did not correlate with serum specific IgE level. However, the response of basophils to antigenic challenge was proportional to IgE-dependent cellular releasability. This finding suggests that target cell sensitivity may be the most important factor in determining the entity of biological response to the antigenic challenge. The ability of H. pylori to induce a specific IgE immune response could answer key questions regarding the mechanisms inducing gastric inflammation. 
Spontaneous carotid-cavernous fistulae in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Type IV. Case report. Spontaneous bilateral carotid-cavernous fistulae and cervical artery dissection is reported in a 20-year-old woman with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Type IV. The clinical features of 16 previously published cases of spontaneous carotid-cavernous fistulae associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Type IV are reviewed, for a total of 17 cases. The mean age of the 14 women and three men was 31.6 years. Only direct fistulae were encountered. Diagnostic neuroangiography carried morbidity and mortality rates of 36% and 12%, respectively; neuroradiological treatment resulted in death in one of six patients. The possible value of desmopressin in the management of these patients is discussed. In view of the risks of arterial puncture and surgery, the authors emphasize the importance of early recognition of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. 
PUVA and cancer: a large-scale epidemiological study. There is concern about the long-term carcinogenic effects of psoralen and ultraviolet A radiation (PUVA) therapy for treatment of skin disorders. A study of 4799 Swedish patients (2343 males, 2056 females; mean age at first treatment 45.3 years, range 6-93; mean follow-up 6.9 years males, 7.2 years females) who received PUVA between 1974 and 1985 showed a dose-dependent increase in the risk of squamous cell cancer of the skin. Male patients who had received more than 200 treatments had over 30 times the incidence of squamous cell cancer found in the general population. Significant increases (p less than 0.05) were also found in the incidences of respiratory cancer in males and females, pancreatic cancer in males, and kidney and colonic cancer in females. This study confirms previous reports of a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of squamous cell cancer in patients treated with PUVA. 
Protection provided by hepatitis B vaccine in a Yupik Eskimo population. Seven-year results. The long-term immunogenicity and protection provided by a plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine (Heptavax B) was determined in a cohort of susceptible persons immunized in 1981. In this study 1581 susceptible persons were immunized with the recommended three-dose regimen of hepatitis B vaccine. After 7 years, 74% of vaccinees retained antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) levels of 10 mIU/mL or more. Anti-HBs levels at 7 years varied inversely with age and directly with the level of anti-HBs attained 1 year after the first dose. During the 7 years after the first dose of vaccine, five vaccine responders and three other persons developed antibody to hepatitis B core antigen and their level of anti-HBs increased. None developed detectable hepatitis B surface antigen or clinical hepatitis. This update of an ongoing study continues to suggest that the risk of hepatitis B virus infection to most persons with an initial anti-HBs response to hepatitis B virus vaccine of 10 mIU/mL or greater is low, regardless of the initial antibody level. 
Gastric emptying after gastric interposition for cancer of the esophagus or hypopharynx. Transhiatal esophagectomy with primary anastomosis to the stomach (gastric pull-up) is an attractive surgical alternative to colic interposition in patients with cancer of the esophagus and hypopharynx. However, the lack of intrinsic gastric peristalsis and complaints by patients of postprandial regurgitation prompted us to measure the effect of body posture on the rates of gastric emptying in these patients. The rates of solid and liquid gastric emptying were measured in 14 patients who had undergone gastric interposition for esophageal and hypopharyngeal carcinoma. Rates of emptying were measured in both the supine and upright position using a dual-isotope radiolabeling technique. In these patients, the rate of gastric emptying of both solids and liquids was significantly slower in the supine position than in the upright position. Emptying in supine patients was also prolonged when compared with supine normal volunteers. Conversely, the upright rate of solid and liquid emptying in the patients was accelerated when compared with published values for upright normal volunteers. We conclude that gastric emptying after gastric interposition is dependent on upright posture after meals. 
Civilian craniocerebral gunshot wounds. Experience with 120 patients who incurred a gunshot wound to the head with dural penetration is presented. All of the patients were managed by a standard resuscitation protocol and assigned a clinical grade based on their level of consciousness both at the time of presentation and at 2 to 4 months after injury. Fifty patients (42%) underwent surgery. Twenty-eight patients (23%) had a good recovery, 19 (16%) were moderately disabled, 6 (5%) were severely disabled, and 67 (56%) died. All patients who were alert and awake with a normal or near normal neurological examination at the time of admission survived with a good outcome. All but 4 patients who were comatose at the time of admission died. Nine patients, however, who were not comatose at the time of admission died from potentially preventable causes. In 3 of these patients, a more aggressive diagnostic approach (including cerebral angiography) may have altered their ultimate outcome. An expeditious approach to the trauma victim with a comprehensive management scheme after injury may have altered the course in the remainder of these patients. 
Surgical implications of drug-induced rhabdomyolysis. Four cases are described of acute non-traumatic rhabdomyolysis with subsequent development of a compartmental syndrome, requiring extensive fasciotomies. All the patients were young male alcoholics who were taking benzodiazepines as part of an addiction treatment programme. In this risk group clinicians should be aware of two serious complications of non-traumatic rhabdomyolysis: acute renal failure and compartmental syndrome. 
Prolonged hypofibrinogenemia and protein C activation after envenoming by Echis carinatus sochureki. Following envenomization by Echis carinatus sochureki, a professional snake handler developed a profound coagulopathy manifested by hemorrhage from the bite site, venipuncture sites and gums; coagulation testing revealed prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times greater than 150 seconds, a fibrinogen of 0 mg%, and marked elevation of fibrin degradation products. In addition, protein C antigen levels were undetectable. The coagulopathy was treated with cryoprecipitate; two different antivenoms were also administered with uncertain benefit. Subsequently, the properties of the venom and antivenoms were studied. Venom did not directly clot fibrinogen; however, venom concentrations as low as 0.2 micrograms/ml caused significant prothrombin activation. In addition, venom activated protein C in the absence of thrombomodulin, and this activity was inhibited by hirudin. The ability of four commercial antivenoms to neutralize the venom prothrombinase and hemorrhagic activity was measured. Three of the four antivenoms partially neutralized venom-induced prothrombin activation. Extreme differences in efficacy were found among the four antivenoms in neutralizing venom hemorrhagic activity in mice. This case illustrates the difficulty in managing the complex coagulopathy that can result from exotic snake envenomization, and identifies a new coagulant property of Echis carinatus venom (protein C activation). 
Abnormal diastolic left ventricular filling by pulsed Doppler echocardiography in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. To determine characteristics of diastolic left ventricular (LV) function in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), two groups of CAPD patients without (n = 23; group 1) vs with (n = 25; group 2) LV hypertrophy (greater than 13 mm) were compared with a group of untreated non-renal hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy (n = 11; group 3) using Doppler-echocardiography. Age and body surface area were comparable in all three groups, mean CAPD-duration (32 +/- 28 vs 26 +/- 23 months; p = NS) was comparable in renal patients. LV systolic function in echocardiography (LVEF: 62 vs 64 vs 63%) and systolic time intervals were normal and comparable in all three groups. Atrial maximum filling velocities (96 +/- 25 vs 91 +/- 25 vs 67 +/- 8 cm/s) were comparably increased, the ratio of maximal early/atrial filling velocities was comparably decreased (0.73 +/- 0.25 vs 0.77 +/- 0.21 vs 0.99 +/- 0.05) in both groups of renal patients as compared to group 3 (p less than 0.05-0.01). Atrial filling fractions were increased in all three groups, more pronounced in group 1 than in group 3 (50 +/- 11 vs 40 +/- 7%; p less than 0.05). The normal correlation of Doppler parameters with age and with LV radius/thickness ratio was altered in renal patients such that high patient age tended to have an additional negative influence on LV diastolic function of hypertrophied, but not of normal myocardium. Isovolumic relaxation time was prolonged in all three groups (134 +/- 38 vs 131 +/- 34 vs 116 +/- 17 ms; p = NS). We conclude that in patients on CAPD, diastolic LV filling is impaired both in normal and hypertrophied myocardium. High age is a factor that further attributes to diastolic dysfunction of hypertrophied myocardium in CAPD. 
Treatable blindness in temporal arteritis. Temporal arteritis is a common cause of blindness. Prompt steroid treatment limits unilateral visual loss while protecting the contralateral eye. Established blindness is irreversible. We report a case of temporal arteritis in which an eye with no light perception secondary to an arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy regained 6/6 vision. 
A randomized study of on-line plasma perfusion over protein A-sepharose and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy in patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma. To evaluate the safety of on-line plasma perfusion over protein-A sepharose and the therapeutic advantage of combining plasma perfusion (PP) over protein-A sepharose with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy in patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma (MCRC), thirty patients were randomized after surgery of primary CRC to receive a combination of 5-FU and PP over protein-A sepharose (group A), or a combination of 5-FU and PP over sepharose (group B), or 5-FU alone (group C). Bi-weekly on-line PP over 200 ml protein-A sepharose gel (group A) or 200 ml sepharose gel (group B) were performed with a Cobe 2997 blood cell separator for a maximum of 19 treatments per patient. 5-FU was given at 1000 mg/m2/d on days 1-5 of a 4-weekly cycle until progression. PP was well tolerated and no severe or life-threatening toxicity was observed. Mild clinical side-effects consisted of fever and chills (36% in group A, 23% in group B). The most common biological effects of PP over protein-A sepharose were significant drops in IgG (66% of pre-PP values), CH50 and C3 (73% of pre-PP values) and a significant generation of C3a and C5a anaphylatoxins. Tumor response rates were 40% for group A, 0% for group B and 20% for group C. The median survival times tended to be longer in group A (17 months) than in group B (10 months) and in group C (9 months). This is the first randomized trial showing some therapeutic advantage in combining PP over protein-A sepharose with conventional chemotherapy in MCRC. 
Primary spinal epidural extraosseous Ewing's sarcoma. The case of a 7-year-old boy with a spinal epidural extraosseous Ewing's sarcoma (EES) is presented. He is in complete remission without neurologic deficit 40 months after diagnosis. Another 15 cases were found in the literature and are discussed together with this patient. Twelve of them were male patients. The mean age of the patients was 17.5 years (range, 4 to 47). Symptoms included back pain and/or radicular pain (100%), paresis of one or both legs (83%), sensory disturbances, and bladder and bowel dysfunction. The mean diagnostic delay was 5.8 months. Each patient underwent laminectomy; complete resection of the tumor was impossible in more than 50% of the cases. Most patients received radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy. Four patients suffered from local recurrence, eight from metastases. Ten (63%) patients died, 1 to 48 months (mean, 16) after diagnosis. The differential diagnosis is discussed, including disk herniation and several benign and malignant tumors. 
A 2-year experience with the Wolf piezoelectric lithotripter: impact of repeat treatment on results and complications. During a 2-year period, 884 extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy treatments have been performed on stones in 388 renal units (kidney and upper ureter) using a Wolf Piezolith device.* Lithotripsy routinely was performed on an outpatient basis without use of anesthesia or premedication. Often, the maximum number of pulses allowable by a Food and Drug Administration protocol (4,000) was delivered and retreatments frequently occurred on successive days. Of the patients 75% were stone-free 3 months after treatment, while another 20% had only residual small fragments. No intrarenal or perinephric hematomas were observed and only 1 patient has had hypertension requiring medication. Renal colic from passage of stone fragments occurred in only 10% of the patients. An aggressive treatment policy using repeat treatments as necessary provides for superior results with this device without an incision or complication. 
Interference between gastroesophageal reflux and sleep in near miss SIDS. GER may be considered as one of the triggering factors in some apparently life-threatening events or even SIDS. Also at the present time, many teams perform 24-h pH monitoring in at-risk infants and treat those with abnormal scores. However, further investigations are needed to answer the question: Which unknown additional factor(s) is present when a specific episode of GER causes apnea and/or bradycardia either during sleep or wakefulness?. 
Amnesia following damage to the left fornix and to other sites. A comparative study. Two memory-impaired patients, who had suffered damage to the left or both fornix columns during removal of a ventricular cyst, were compared with 3 others having left-sided hippocampal or thalamic lesions, and with normal controls. The tests used were nonverbal--scene recognition, delayed matching-to-sample and concurrent pattern and object discrimination learning. The last two are differentially sensitive to fornix transection and to hippocampal or thalamic ablations in monkeys; however, the patients with fornix damage did not show a distinctive pattern of impairment. The reasons for this discrepancy are discussed. The study adds to the evidence that fornix transection can cause wide-ranging memory disturbances in man. 
Preoperative hemostatic assessment of the adenotonsillectomy patient. Intraoperative or postoperative hemorrhage in the patient who has undergone an adenotonsillectomy because of an unrecognized hemostatic defect may increase morbidity and can be potentially life-threatening to the patient in what should be a "routine" procedure. Preoperative identification of occult hemostatic abnormalities, coupled with perioperative management directed at correcting the effects of the defects, should serve to reduce the incidence of this distressful complication. Routine use of preoperative laboratory screening tests for this purpose has been discouraged recently as a result of concerns over cost-effectiveness and the low predictiveness of the tests for bleeding. Our experience with the routine use of a comprehensive hemostatic laboratory screening panel--which includes a bleeding time test--in the adenotonsillectomy patient population demonstrated that 11.5% of our patients had abnormal initial screening laboratory tests; these results were ultimately attributable to occult hemostatic defects. Clinical history, the universally recommended method of preoperative hemostatic assessment, failed to detect any previously unrecognized coagulation disorder. Laboratory screening improved preoperative detection of occult hemostatic defects and allowed for appropriate alterations in perioperative care. Our results with this approach are presented, along with illustrative case histories and a discussion of the current recommendations for preoperative laboratory screening of the hemostatic system, as found in a review of the literature. 
The influence of intraoperative hypotension and perioperative blood transfusion on disease-free survival in patients with complete resection of colorectal liver metastases. An increased interest in surgical treatment of liver metastases from colorectal origin has evolved recently. However not all patients benefit from this approach, with early recurrence and death still being encountered. To evaluate clinical as well as perioperative factors that might significantly affect the outcome of patients with completely resected colorectal liver metastases, we examined 116 patients who underwent resection between September 1987 and August 1989. Median follow-up time was 13.2 months (0.6 to 31.4 months). The overall survival rate was 91% at 1 year and 75% at 2 years. Median survival was not reached. Median disease-free survival time was 11.5 months, with 49.4% and 21.2% of the patients being free of disease at 1 and 2 years, respectively. By univariate analysis, site of primary colorectal cancer, preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level, size of metastases, number of metastases, length of operation time, percentage mean arterial pressure, number of hypotensive episodes, duration of hypotensive episodes, and whole blood transfusion significantly affected recurrence rate following resection. However only site of primary tumor, CEA, number of metastases, and number of hypotensive episodes remained significant in the multivariate analysis. The most significant single factor that affected recurrence rate was the number of hypotensive episodes during the operative procedure. It is concluded that hypotensive episodes, even when well controlled, should be avoided during operation to maximize the chances of cure and prolong disease-free survival of patients with colorectal liver metastases. 
A survey of antiemetic use in children with cancer. Pediatric oncologists within Pediatric Oncology Group institutions were surveyed to determine current antiemetic practices for children receiving chemotherapy and the basis for those practices. A mean severity rating for associated nausea and vomiting was calculated and used to rank 31 chemotherapeutic agents commonly used in the treatment of childhood cancer. Antiemetics were used 17%, 79%, and 98% of the time for chemotherapeutic agents with mild, moderate, or severe associated nausea and vomiting, respectively. A median of one, two, and three antiemetics were used for mild, moderate, and severe agents, respectively. Antihistamines and phenothiazines were the drugs most commonly used for agents causing mild or moderate nausea and vomiting, and metoclopramide hydrochloride/antihistamines with lorazepam and/or corticosteroids were used most often for chemotherapeutic agents causing severe nausea and vomiting. Most oncologists based their choice of antiemetics on personal experience. Current literature addressing the treatment of nausea and vomiting in children receiving chemotherapy, as reviewed here, does not always support the present clinical practices. 
Comparison of celiprolol and propranolol in stable angina pectoris. Celiprolol International Angina Study Group. The comparative antianginal effects and safety of propranolol and celiprolol, a highly beta 1-selective adrenoceptor blocker with selective partial beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist activity, were assessed in an international multicenter, placebo run-in, active control, double-blind, randomized, titration-to-effect study of 140 patients with stable, exercise-induced angina pectoris. At baseline, all patients received placebo for 2 weeks, then titrated doses of once-daily celiprolol (200, 400, 600 mg) or twice-daily propranolol (total daily dose 80, 160, 320 mg) over 4 weeks, followed by a 2-week maintenance period. Heart rate and blood pressure, at rest and with exercise, weekly anginal attack frequency, nitroglycerin consumption and symptom-limited treadmill exercise times (modified Bruce protocol) were assessed. Compared with their respective baselines, both celiprolol and propranolol reduced anginal attack and nitroglycerin consumption rates to a comparable degree, while improving exercise tolerance (p less than 0.05). Treatment with propranolol compared with celiprolol, however, was associated with a significantly lower heart rate at rest (p less than 0.01). The double-product at the conclusion of exercise testing was significantly reduced by both drugs. Celiprolol and propranolol had similar effects on blood pressure, and were well tolerated. More symptomatic bradycardia occurred with propranolol. Despite the differences in their hemodynamic actions, once-daily celiprolol is as effective as twice-daily propranolol in the treatment of patients with stable angina pectoris. 
Exclusion of cervical spine injury: a prospective study. Trauma room lateral cervical spine radiographs (LCSR) may improve the safety of intubation and transportation of multiply injured patients by providing earlier recognition of spinal vertebral injuries. We prospectively evaluated 60 consecutive trauma admissions to determine the impact of clearance of cervical spine radiographs on patient care. Fifty-three patients had no cervical spine injury (CSI). Intubations, emergency head CT scan, aortography, or urgent operation (less than 6 hours after admission) were required in the majority of patients and preceded complete cervical spine clearance in all but one instance. The median time for radiologic clearance of the cervical spine was 15 hours (range, 1.5 to 181). LCSR failed to identify three of the seven acute CSI (all three had C7 fractures). The spine-injured were managed with cervical collars and no new neurologic injury developed. We conclude that: 1) LCSRs do not appear to alter urgent management of multiply injured patients during resuscitation and transportation; 2) chest radiographs and emergency investigations should not be delayed by repeated LCSR in the trauma room as it may be difficult to fully exclude CSI in many trauma patients; 3) we support the current ATLS guidelines, which suggest that all patients should be presumed to have an unstable CSI until the presence of cervical injury has been excluded. 
Access to health care in the United States: barriers for neurologic patients, challenges for neurologic physicians Approximately 34 million people in the United States have no health insurance. Up to 80 million people have insurance inadequate to provide care for severe or long-term illness (the underinsured). In 1986, an estimated 1 million persons in the US could not obtain needed health care for financial reasons, and another 18.8 million had difficulty obtaining care. There probably are 3.2 million people with neurologic disorders among the 34 million uninsured, and more among the underinsured. Those patients probably have difficulty obtaining health care, including neurologic consultations, laboratory tests, and radiologic procedures. Congress and many state legislatures are considering various proposals to address the problems of the un- and underinsured. Several national medical professional societies have developed programs to improve access to care for their patients. The American Academy of Neurology Task Force on Access to Health Care is studying access to care for neurologic patients and will recommend a course of action to the Academy. The Task Force welcomes suggestions concerning appropriate steps to improve access to health care for patients with neurologic disorders. 
Survivorship analysis of the uncemented porous-coated anatomic knee replacement [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Sep;73(8):1274] Ninety-six patients who had a total of 108 replacements with an uncemented porous-coated anatomic knee prosthesis were followed for an average of sixty-four months (range, thirty-nine to ninety-three months). At the time of the most recent follow-up, twenty-one implants (19 per cent) had failed, all due to problems with the tibial component. A patellar component was not used, and no noteworthy patellar problems were encountered after the operation. There were no infections about the prostheses, and no femoral implant was revised. The most common cause of failure was collapse of the anteromedial part of the tibial plateau, which occurred in fourteen knees. The prosthesis loosened without collapse of bone in two knees, and five knees were revised because of gross wear of the polyethylene. When the time of failure was defined as the point at which revision of the prosthesis was recommended, the cumulative rate of survival was 84 per cent (95 per cent confidence interval, +/- 7 per cent) at five years and 77 +/- 10 per cent at six years. When the time of failure was defined as the point at which the knee replacement was actually done, the five-year rate of survival was the same. No significant differences were demonstrated between groups that were stratified by age, sex, weight, or primary diagnosis. We therefore do not recommend the use of an uncemented porous-coated anatomic knee replacement of the design that was evaluated in this study. 
Incidence and timing of hypothermia in trauma patients undergoing operations. Hypothermia is a major problem in patients who have sustained trauma. We reviewed the cases of 100 consecutive trauma patients transferred directly to the operating room (OR) from the Emergency Department (ED) in a Level I trauma center; 26 cases could not be evaluated. Forty-two patients (57%) became hypothermic at some time between injury and leaving the OR. Fifty-five patients (74%) had a temperature (T) recorded on arrival to the ED; but only 7 (12%) were hypothermic (34.7 degrees +/- 1.5 degrees C). In contrast, 34 patients (46%) arrived in the OR hypothermic (34.8 degrees +/- 0.9 degrees C) and 26 (76%) of these left the OR hypothermic (34.8 degrees +/- 0.9 degrees C). Eight additional patients (20%) arriving in the OR with a T greater than 35.9 degrees C left the OR hypothermic (35.1 degrees +/- 0.4 degrees C). The mean T loss in the ED was significantly greater than that lost in the OR (-0.8 degrees +/- 0.7 degrees C vs. 0.0 degrees +/- 0.6 degrees C; p less than 0.0001, ANOVA). Ninety-two percent of the patients lost temperature in the ED, while 43% of the patients gained temperature in the OR. Hypothermia was associated with lower Trauma Scores, and those patients who were severely hypothermic received more intravenous fluids. However, the impact of fluid infusion was not independent from Trauma Score and did not fully explain the magnitude of the heat loss. These data suggest that hypothermia in trauma patients has a multifactoral etiology related to the magnitude of injury and that the major T loss occurs in the ED rather than in the OR. 
Microinfarction in classic migraine? A study with magnetic resonance imaging findings. By means of magnetic resonance imaging we investigated a total of 45 patients suffering from classic migraine; 25 patients had been treated in our department for classic migraine over the past 2 years (group A), and 20 other patients investigated between 1976 and 1984 were reexamined for this study (group B). Thirty-two age- and roughly sex-matched healthy volunteers underwent magnetic resonance imaging and served as controls (group C). There was a trend for patients with classic migraine to have more subcortical patchy lesions on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. In a comparison of our control subjects and patients with a history of greater than 20 attacks of classic migraine taken from groups A and B, this difference in number of lesions was significant (p = 0.02). The results suggest that patchy lesions in patients with classic migraine should be interpreted with particular caution before diagnosing a demyelinating disease since the lesions could be ischemic in origin. 
Medication-induced esophageal injury: report of 17 cases with endoscopic documentation. We report on medication-induced esophageal injury (MIEI) in 17 patients (six male, 11 female) seen from October 1986 to May 1990. The mean age of patients was 27.3 (SD = 5.7) yr; mean duration of drug ingestion prior to the occurrence of symptoms 10.2 (SD = 11.5) days, and mean duration of symptoms before seeking medical attention 4.6 (SD = 3.8) days. Symptoms subsided after treatment, with a mean of 6 (SD = 2.5) days. Symptoms included odynophagia (in 17), chest pain (six), epigastric pain (three), and retrosternal pain (one). Symptoms occurred after the drug was stopped in three. MIEI was caused by doxycycline (seven), minocycline (five), Pantozyme (one), cloxacillin (one), unknown (two), and dicloxacillin + Danzen (one). Reclining after drug ingestion was the predominant risk factor. Endoscopy showed most ulcers to be multiple and at midesophagus. Barium swallows done in two patients were negative. There is no previous report of Pantozyme (pancreatic enzyme), Danzen (serratio-peptidase), cloxacillin, and dicloxacillin causing MIEI. 
Incidental appendectomy during videolaseroscopy. One hundred incidental appendectomies were performed in patients undergoing operative laparoscopy (videolaseroscopy) for evaluating and treating various major diseases of the reproductive organs. Except for a fever resolving within 24 hours in one case and mild periumbilical ecchymosis, there were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. All patients were discharged within 24 hours of surgery. Average hospital stay was 14 hours. All cases have been followed up for a minimum of 8 months. We believe any risk associated with elective appendectomy as reported here is minimal and outweighed by the benefits of eliminating future emergency appendectomy, simplifying future differential diagnosis of pelvic pain and removing unsuspected abnormality found in the appendix. 
Pancytopenia secondary to short-term, high-dose intravenous infusion of amrinone. The incidence of amrinone-induced thrombocytopenia has been reported to be 2.4 percent in patients receiving intravenous therapy. To date there have been no reports of bleeding in these patients nor have there been reports of other hematologic abnormalities secondary to amrinone administration. This case report describes a patient whose hematologic values began to decrease after two days of amrinone therapy, reaching a nadir at day 8. Values returned to baseline eight days after treatment was discontinued. This report provides the first evidence that amrinone may induce pancytopenia in patients who receive short courses of high-dose, continuous-infusion amrinone. 
3DFT MR angiography of the carotid bifurcation: potential and limitations as a screening examination. The authors compared the three-dimensional Fourier transform (3DFT) time-of-flight magnetic resonance (MR) angiograms in 38 patients initially studied with selective intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for suspected arteriosclerotic disease of the carotid bifurcation. MR angiograms were successfully obtained in 65 of the 75 carotid arteries (87%) visualized with DSA. DSA and MR angiographic studies were assessed for percentage area stenosis by two independent observers on two occasions. Statistical tests indicated consistency in interpretation for each observer as well as between observers. No significant difference was found between the two modalities in ability to depict changes in percentage area stenosis. For the 32 right carotid arteries in the comparison, the median for the difference between MR angiography and intraarterial DSA was 1.83% (range, -22.38% to 55.60%); for the 33 visualized left carotid arteries, it was 0.00% (range, -20.55% to 49.95%). Receiver operating characteristic analysis indicated that technically adequate MR angiography may be a sensitive screening examination for stenoses. 
Hepatic phosphofructokinase-1 activity and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate levels in patients with abdominal sepsis. 1. In sepsis various processes of carbohydrate metabolism, such as hepatic gluconeogenesis and glycolysis, are altered. Phosphofructokinase-1, a key glycolytic enzyme, is controlled in the long term via regulation of synthesis and degradation of the protein itself, while in the short term it is regulated by allosteric effectors, such as fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (the most potent). In the present study hepatic phosphofructokinase-1 activity as well as phosphofructokinase-2 activity and the concentration of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate were assayed to determine if they might contribute to the derangement of carbohydrate metabolism seen commonly in sepsis. 2. The levels of glycogen and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate and the activity of phosphofructokinase-1 and phosphofructokinase-2 were determined in hepatic biopsies obtained at laparotomy from six patients with and seven patients without abdominal septic foci. 3. A significant increase in plasma lactate concentration was observed in the septic patients, whereas no significant differences in tissue glycogen content or plasma glucose concentration were seen between the groups. 4. No significant change in plasma insulin concentration was observed. However, levels of the counter-regulatory hormones (glucagon, cortisol and adrenaline) were elevated in the septic patients. 5. A 60% decrease in hepatic phosphofructokinase-1 activity was seen in the septic patients. However, no significant changes in hepatic phosphofructokinase-2 activity and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate content were observed in the septic patients. 6. The present results demonstrate that the decrease in hepatic phosphofructokinase-1 activity occurring in sepsis does not appear to reflect alterations in the concentration of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate. 
Abdominal musculature abnormalities as a cause of groin pain in athletes. Inguinal hernias and pubalgia. There has been increasing interest within the European sports medicine community regarding the etiology and treatment of groin pain in the athlete. Groin pain is most commonly caused by musculotendinous strains of the adductors and other muscles crossing the hip joint, but may also be related to abdominal wall abnormalities. Cases may be termed "pubalgia" if physical examination does not reveal inguinal hernia and there is an absence of other etiology for groin pain. We present nine cases of patients who underwent herniorrhaphies for groin pain. Two patients had groin pain without evidence of a hernia preoperatively (pubalgia). In the remaining seven patients we determined the presence of a hernia by physical examination. At operation, eight patients were found to have inguinal hernias. One patient had no hernia but had partial avulsion of the internal oblique fibers from their insertion at the public tubercle. The average interval from operation to return to full activity was 11 weeks. All patients returned to full activity within 3 months of surgery. One patient had persistent symptoms of mild incisional tenderness, but otherwise there were no recurrences, complications, or persistence of symptoms. Abnormalities of the abdominal wall, including inguinal hernias and microscopic tears or avulsions of the internal oblique muscle, can be an overlooked source of groin pain in the athlete. Operative treatment of this condition with herniorrhaphy can return the athlete to his sport within 3 months. 
Correlates of Beck Depression Inventory scores in an ambulatory elderly population: symptoms, diseases, laboratory values, and medications. BACKGROUND. Depression is one of the most important psychiatric disorders of older people. Between 1% and 5% of elderly persons who live in the community have major depression. Depressed elderly people are thought to be more likely to complain of symptoms such as headache, constipation, and pain than of disordered mood. The purpose of this study was to determine whether certain symptoms, diseases, or drugs used by older people correlate with scores on the Beck Depression Inventory. METHODS. Beck Depression Inventory scores were obtained in an ambulatory elderly population to identify correlates with self-reported signs, symptoms, diseases, drugs, and laboratory values. A total of 1048 participants were studied, including 712 women and 336 men. RESULTS. In this study, 13.7% of the men and 20.7% of the women had scores suggesting possible depression. A linear regression model revealed eight factors of significance in predicting scores on the Beck Depression Inventory. The most important predictors were the total number of symptoms reported by the patient (P less than .0001), and subjective complaints of memory loss (P less than .0003) and of pain in the abdomen (P less than .0004). CONCLUSIONS. Clinically, the results of this study suggest that depression is underdiagnosed in older patients and that multiple somatic symptoms are the best indicator of depression in this population. 
Meningioangiomatosis: clinical, radiologic, and histopathologic correlation. Meningioangiomatosis (MA) is a rare, benign, hamartomatous lesion of the leptomeninges; MA has been considered to be a forme fruste of neurofibromatosis. A review of pathology records for patients with MA who were seen between 1970 and 1989 at the authors' institutions revealed four patients (three male and one female; aged 2.5-21.0 years; mean, 10.8 years) with a history of seizures but without the stigmata or family history of neurofibromatosis. Three patients had undergone either computed tomographic (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies. All patients had undergone craniotomies to obtain tissue for pathologic analysis; a peripheral, leptomeningeal lesion was found in all four patients. At CT in two patients, the lesions were most consistent with calcification. At T2-weighted MR imaging in one patient, the lesion demonstrated a hyperintense periphery with associated edema of the white matter. Histopathologic examination demonstrated characteristic features of MA--cortical meningovascular fibroblastic proliferation and leptomeningeal calcification. The accurate diagnosis of MA is important since MA is a benign, surgically correctable cause of seizures. 
Cauda equina compression associated with breast cancer. A case study in differential diagnosis. The determination of the etiology of spinal cord compression in cancer patients is essential for appropriate therapy. Patients with metastatic disease are not immune to the development of superimposed nonmalignant disease. Although metastatic epidural compression may occur in up to 9% of breast cancer patients, care must be taken to rule out other nonmetastatic lesions causing compression. The association of concurrent breast carcinoma and a spinal neurilemoma simulating a metastatic lesion seems not to have been previously reported. A neurilemoma was observed in a 50-year-old woman. A neurilemoma suspected to be a metastatic lesion may produce the clinical features of pain, neurologic deficit, and weakness. Differentiation will be aided by roentgenograms, radionuclide bone scans, computed tomography, and possible magnetic resonance imaging. Radiologic differentiation hinges on the recognition and the slow-growing nature and noninvasive boundaries of the nonmalignant lesion. Ultimate verification is by biopsy. Treatment should consist of neurectomy, if severely symptomatic, and stabilization as indicated. 
The child with spells. The purpose of this article was to discuss paroxysms, both neurologic and non-neurologic, that can mimic seizures. This is summarized in Table 4. It should be clear that the evaluation of any spell in a child should begin with a detailed and complete history. Historical features should focus on all aspects of the event--length of time, situation, appearance, quantity, as well as other features not directly pertaining to the event. Physical and neurologic examinations are frequently normal. Ancillary testing that may prove valuable include routine and video EEG monitoring as well as home video recording. 
Adenosine for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Adenosine is the most recent drug approved for the treatment of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Its advantage is that it is just as effective as verapamil and is far less toxic. The lack of toxicity is due to the extremely short half-life (one to seven seconds). The mechanism of action of adenosine is different from that of other antiarrhythmic agents. For the specific purpose of ameliorating paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, adenosine appears to be an ideal antiarrhythmic drug. 
Recurrent focal segmental glomerulosclerosis after renal transplantation. In a young adult male with chronic renal failure from focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, massive proteinuria appeared within two weeks after transplantation. Although allograft biopsy at eight weeks was normal, a second biopsy eight months after transplant showed focal segmental glomerulosclerosis again. Sixteen months after transplantation maintenance hemodialysis had to be restarted. 
A comparative trial of the reactogenicity and immunogenicity of Takeda acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids. Outcome in 3- to 8-month-old infants, 9- to 23-month-old infants and children, and 24- to 30-month-old children. The reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the Takeda acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids were compared in 139 infants aged 3 to 8 months, 60 infants and children aged 9 to 23 months, and 99 children aged 24 to 30 months. Good antibody responses to pertussis toxin (PT), filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA), and agglutinogens occurred in all age groups after both the third and fourth doses. After the fourth (booster) dose, the mean antibody values in initially seronegative infants vaccinated at 3 to 8 months of age were as follows: anti-PT, 67.8 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units (EU) per milliliter; anti-FHA, 149.5 EU/mL; the agglutinin titer was 125.6. The values in initially seronegative children vaccinated at 24 to 30 months of age were as follows: anti-PT, 92.9 EU/mL; anti-FHA, 251.7 EU/mL; the agglutinin titer was 275.8. Reactions following immunization were minimal. Except for drowsiness after the first dose in infants, there were no clinically significant differences in reactions between infants and older children. The findings in this study coupled with the recent demonstration of efficacy of this vaccine in 2-year-old children supports the recent Japanese recommendation to lower the age of immunization with acellular pertussis vaccine combined with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids to 3 months. 
Detection of tissue injury after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy of gallstones. We evaluated seven patients undergoing gallstone lithotripsy for evidence of hepatic or renal trauma after each of 10 lithotripsy treatments. Postlithotripsy magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and sonography showed no evidence of hepatic or renal injury as compared with baseline studies. Four treatments resulted in sonographic evidence of gaseous hepatic microbubbles (analogous to "the bends") due to cavitation effects of the shockwaves. Three of these four treatments produced serum glutamicoxaloacetic transaminase and -pyruvic transaminase elevation. One patient had microscopic hematuria. Minimal tissue damage results from gallstone lithotripsy. MRI and ultrasound, performed after lithotripsy, appear to be less sensitive than transaminasemia in detecting this low-grade injury. 
Metastatic pattern of infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the breast: an autopsy study. We analyzed the autopsy records and autopsy histological slides of 261 patients with breast carcinoma who died at the Institute of Oncology, Ljubljana, from January 1972 to October 1989, with particular attention to the metastatic pattern of infiltrating lobular carcinoma (ILC) which we compared with infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC). In 226 of 261 patients who died with metastatic disease there were 25 cases of ILC, 195 cases of IDC, 4 cases of mixed IDC-ILC, and 2 cases of mucinous carcinoma. There was no statistically significant difference in frequency of metastases to common metastatic sites, such as the liver, bone, and pleura, with the exception of the lungs, in which IDC metastases prevailed (P less than 0.006). By contrast, a statistically highly significant prevalence of ILC metastases to the peritoneum/retroperitoneum, hollow viscera, internal genital organs, leptomeninges, and myocardium was found (P values of less than 0.006- less than 10(-6). The metastases to these sites were characterized by diffuse growth of neoplastic cells that infiltrated in a lymphoma or leukemia-like fashion. Such metastases may remain clinically silent for a long time, in spite of their extensiveness. The difference of metastatic pattern between ILC and IDC is insufficiently appreciated in most of the published studies on ILC. 
Excessive sweating: an uncommon sign of basilar artery occlusion. Excessive sweating of the face and, to a lesser degree, of the thorax and limbs, occurred after basilar artery occlusion in a 15 year old Saudi boy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a limited bilateral paramedian infarction of the rostral ventral pons. Basilar artery occlusion in children and adolescents is a rarity. Excessive sweating following such a stroke is rare in any age group. Clinico-anatomical correlations are discussed. 
A comparative study of the cerebrovascular complications of cocaine: alkaloidal versus hydrochloride--a review. Cocaine, especially in its alkaloidal or "crack" form, has been increasingly associated with cerebrovascular disease. Before the crack epidemic, cocaine hydrochloride (HCl) was also implicated as a cause of stroke. However, less is known about the differences in stroke subtypes, age at stroke onset, or presence of underlying structural cerebrovascular disease with different forms of cocaine use. We compared 26 patients (previously reported) from our four institutions plus 16 cases reported in the literature of stroke associated with alkaloidal cocaine to 63 (57 reported in the literature and six not previously reported from our four institutions) cases of stroke associated with cocaine HCl. Ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes are equally likely after alkaloidal cocaine use, whereas cocaine HCl is more likely (approximately 80% of the time) to cause hemorrhagic stroke, with approximately half the intracranial hemorrhages occurring from ruptured cerebral saccular aneurysms or vascular malformations. The presence of an underlying cerebral aneurysm was more common among patients with cocaine HCl-associated strokes than alkaloidal cocaine-associated strokes. Cerebral infarction was significantly more common among the alkaloidal cocaine users than in all the cocaine HCl users, and this was also true when alkaloidal cocaine users were compared with parenteral cocaine HCl (intravenous and intramuscular) users. Only hemorrhagic stroke has been reported with intravenous cocaine HCl use. We conclude that the pathogenesis of cocaine-related stroke is heterogeneous, and depends, in part, on the form of cocaine used. 
Cerebrovascular complications after orthotopic liver transplantation: a clinicopathologic study. We analyzed 55 autopsy cases in 1,357 patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation at the University of Pittsburgh and found that 13 (23.6%) patients had intracranial bleeding, and five (9%) had infarcts. Eight patients had bleeding localized to one intracranial compartment: intracerebral hemorrhage (three patients); subarachnoid hemorrhage (three patients); and subdural hematoma (two patients). Five patients had combinations of multiple sites of bleeding: three with subarachnoid hemorrhage-intracerebral hemorrhage, one with subarachnoid hemorrhage-intracerebral hemorrhage-subdural hematoma, and one with subdural hematoma-intracerebral hemorrhage. Coexistent CNS infections (fungal or bacterial) were associated with hemorrhagic infarcts and intracerebral hemorrhage in four patients. Cerebral embolism and hemorrhagic infarction from bacterial endocarditis occurred in one patient. Five patients died of intracranial bleeding. Severe coagulopathy was the major cause of intracranial bleeding and was associated with systemic bleeding in 12 patients. Significant systemic or metabolic complications were present in all patients and masked the focal signs of the intracranial process in more than one half. 
Digestion of bovine milk proteins in patients with a high jejunostomy. Digestion of milk proteins was studied in short-bowel patients. After ingestion of water, purified beta-lactoglobulin (beta-Ig), or skim milk, effluents were collected at the stoma. The flow rate of the effluent peaked in the first 30-min period after ingestion and returned to the basal value within the first 60 min. After milk ingestion 1) the nitrogen concentration of effluents peaked in the first 30 min, 2) SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blot indicated the presence of beta-Ig and alpha-lactalbumin (alpha-lac) in jejunal effluents but only during the first 30 min whereas caseins were detected during the initial 1-2 h effluents, and 3) immunoenzymo metric assay indicated that 64% and 44% of the beta-Ig and alpha-lac, respectively, were recovered in an intact antigenic form. Results indicate that the digestion of milk proteins in humans differs quantitatively. Digestion appeared partially incomplete in the upper jejunum, suggesting the importance of the ileum for completion of digestion. 
Some genetic aspects of rolandic epilepsy: waking and sleep EEGs in siblings. Epileptic activity was recorded electroencephalographically in at least one sibling in 22 (51.16%) of 43 patients with rolandic epilepsy and/or centrotemporal spikes. In 26 of 69 (37.68%) siblings, epileptic discharges were observed. These were recorded only in waking in 1 subject (1.5%), in waking and sleep in 13 (18.8%), and in sleep only in 12 (17.4%). The greatest number of epileptic discharges was noted in waking during hyperventilation (52.4%) and in sleep stage C (88%). Foci were recorded in only 4 (5.8%) of the 26 cases with epileptic discharges, and generalized spike-wave complexes were recorded in 22 (31.9%). In one sibling, the sharp-wave focus was located in the right centrotemporal area, in a second in the left occipital, and in a third in the left frontal region with spreading to the centrotemporal; in the fourth, two independent foci were observed in the left and right centrotemporal area. One epileptic discharge was observed every 74.9 s in waking and every 150.9 s in sleep. Epileptic activity was greatest in the group between 5 and 12 years of age (54.3%). The same activation rates were noted in siblings of patients with (47.2%) and without seizures (42.9%), and no differences were noted in siblings with (40%) or without (37.5%) seizures. Family history and sex of the siblings of patient did not play a role in the rate of activation. An autosomal dominant inheritance is assumed, but further investigations are necessary. 
IgM-associated primary diffuse mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis: natural history and prognostic indicators. Fifty-four adults with primary mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis and IgM deposition were observed for a minimum of three years or until end-stage renal failure. The actuarial renal survival was 80 per cent at 5 years and 64 per cent at 10 years; multivariate analysis identified microscopic haematuria, extent of mesangial proliferation and global glomerular sclerosis as independent prognostic indicators. 
Immunohistochemical demonstration of neurone specific enolase in bone marrow infiltrated by neuroblastoma. One hundred and two bone marrow samples were analysed by histological and immunohistochemical methods for neurone specific enolase (NSE). The biopsies were performed to determine the extent of bone marrow disease in 84 neuroblastomas, nine embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas, five Ewing's sarcomas, two cases of Hodgkin's disease and two lymphoblastic lymphomas. Twenty seven (32%) of neuroblastoma bone marrows showed metastases by conventional histological techniques and 33 (39%) after immunohistochemical staining with NSE. Five embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas, five Ewing's sarcomas, and two lymphoblastic lymphomas showed bone marrow metastases. Only one of these cases was reactive for NSE. NSE represents a very sensitive immunomarker for the follow up of neuroblastoma and improves detection of bone marrow invasion by neuroblastoma. 
Rheumatoid iliopsoas bursitis presenting as unilateral femoral nerve palsy. A 65-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) developed symptomatic compression of the femoral nerve secondary to an iliopsoas bursitis. Her adjacent hip joint was not severely affected by arthritis. This entity should be included among the entrapment neuropathies complicating RA. 
Clinical aspects of pelvic inflammatory disease. Pelvic inflammatory disease is caused by spread of organisms from the vagina and cervix to the upper genital tract. The patient may have a life-threatening illness or may remain asymptomatic. The disease may be caused by sexually or nonsexually transmitted organisms. Polymicrobial infections are the rule. Therapy requires antibiotic agents with broad coverage of aerobic and anaerobic organisms, including Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. 
